UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/literatureofamerOOquin 


The  Literature  of  the 
American  People 


AN  HISTORICAL  AND 
CRITICAL  SURVEY 


wmwm 


EDITED  BY 

ARTHUR  HOBSON  QUINN 

University  of  Pennsylvania 


APPLETON-CENTURY-CROFTS,  INC. 

New  York 


Copyright  1951,  by 
APPLETON-CENTURY-CROFTS,  INC. 


All  rights  reserved.  This  book,  or  parts 
thereof,  must  not  be  reproduced  in  any 
for?n  without  permission  of  the  publishers. 

531 


PRINTED      IN      THE      UNITED      STATES      OF      AMERICA 


Preface 

It  is  the  hope  of  the  authors  of  this  volume  that  it  will  be  found  by  the 
mature  student  and  by  the  general  public  an  authentic  and  readable  dis- 
cussion of  our  literature.  It  avoids  the  difficulties  encountered  by  a  single 
writer  who  endeavors  to  cover  alone  that  complex  and  crowded  field. 
It  also  secures  a  more  unified  critical  point  of  view  than  a  compilation 
by  a  large  number  of  contributors.  The  calibre  of  my  collaborators  makes 
it'  perhaps  unnecessary  for  me  to  state  that  while  I  have  read  and  com- 
mented upon  their  contributions  as  the  book  progressed,  the  final  text 
represents  their  independent  judgments. 

If  this  policy  has  led  in  a  few  cases  to  apparent  contradictions,  the  au- 
thority of  the  history  as  a  whole  must  rest  upon  the  critical  judgments  of 
the  writers  of  the  sections  for  which  they  agreed  to  be  responsible. 
Duplication  of  references  in  the  different  sections  of  the  Chapter  Bibliog- 
raphies has  been  preferred  to  constant  cross  references.  The  Editors  feel 
that  information  of  this  nature  should  be  made  instantly  available  at  the 
time  and  place  it  is  needed. 

The  rapid  growth  of  the  departments  of  American  Civilization  in  our 
colleges  and  universities  is  an  indication  of  the  need  for  a  history  of  Ameri- 
can Literature  which  reflects  the  opinions  and  desires  of  the  people  who 
have  read  and  inspired  it  as  well  as  those  who  have  created  it.  For  the 
first  time  in  such  a  history,  the  relations  of  literature  to  the  allied  arts  of 
painting,  sculpture  and  architecture,  and  to  politics  and  social  movements, 
have  been  emphasized.  The  growth  of  magazines  and  their  effect  for  good 
or  ill  upon  literature  and  the  rivalry  of  their  forms  of  expression  have 
been  noted. 

Also  for  the  first  time,  American  Drama  has  been  given  its  proper  place 
in  a  history  of  literature.  Not  only  have  the  dramatic  achievements  of  mod- 
ern playwrights  been  adequately  treated,  but  also  the  romantic  and  poetic 
plays  and  the  prose  histories  and  comedies  which  filled  the  theaters  in  the 
nineteenth  century  have  been  fitted  into  their  proper  place  in  the  struggle 
for  liberality  and  democracy.  New  movements  in  literature  have  been  ap- 
praised from  the  point  of  view  of  their  permanence  or  their  passing.  The 
influence  of  science  and  of  education  have  not  been  overlooked  or  the 
debt  we  owe  to  other  literatures,  but  a  fresh  stress  has  been  laid  upon  the 
inspiration  which  our  writers  have  had  upon  foreign  literary  developments. 
Throughout  the  book,  the  importance  of  the  American  point  of  view 


vi  PREFACE 

has  been  emphasized.  Even  in  the  Colonial  period  the  growth  of  that  at- 
titude has  been  revealed.  But  it  has  been  proved  that  it  is  not  simply  a 
matter  of  geography.  American  writers  must  not  be  limited  to  their  own 
localities  and  the  critical  stupidity  which  confuses  merely  international 
literature  with  that  which  is  universal  has  been  avoided. 

Mr.  Gohdes  wishes  to  express  his  thanks  for  the  help  afforded  by  several 
scholars  who  read  and  corrected  parts  of  his  manuscript  and  for  a  grant 
from  the  American  Council  of  Learned  Societies  which  enabled  him  to 
work  in  libraries  at  a  distance  from  his  home.  The  Duke  University  Re- 
search Council  provided  him  with  funds  for  the  employment  of  steno- 
graphic and  clerical  assistants.  His  discussion  of  the  fine  arts  would  have 
been  impossible  without  the  kindly  advice  of  Hugh  S.  Morrison,  Louise 
Hall,  Lloyd  Goodrich,  Edward  N.  Waters,  A.  T.  Gardner,  and  other 
experts  in  the  field. 

I  desire  to  express  my  appreciation  of  two  grants  made  by  the  Faculty 
Research  Committee  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  for  the  con- 
stant assistance  of  the  Library  Staffs.  The  discussion  of  Longfellow  owes 
much  to  the  courtesy  of  the  late  Mr.  Henry  W.  Longfellow  Dana.  Mr.  A. 
T.  Gardner  of  the  Metropolitan  Museum  and  my  colleague  Dr.  R.  C. 
Smith  of  the  Faculty  of  Fine  Arts  were  good  enough  to  read  the  manu- 
script of  Chapter  28  and  make  valuable  comments.  For  unusual  oppor- 
tunities of  examining  the  paintings  and  sculpture  in  the  Metropolitan 
Museum,  I  am  indebted  to  Mr.  Gardner  and  to  Mr.  Harry  B.  Wehle  and 
for  similar  courtesies  in  the  New  York  Historical  Society  to  Mr.  R.  W.  G. 
Vail,  and  in  the  collections  of  the  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts  to 
Mr.  Joseph  T.  Frazer,  Jr.  None  of  these  gentlemen  must  be  held  responsible 
however  for  any  critical  judgments  I  may  have  made.  My  gratitude  is 
due  to  my  colleague  Dr.  E.  L.  Potts  for  his  assistance  in  checking  the 
Bibliographies  of  my  section.  The  greatest  help  came  from  the  criticism 
and  revision  of  the  manuscript,  as  it  progressed,  by  my  wife  and  daughter. 

A.  H.  Q. 


CHAPTER 
1 


2. 


Contents 

PART  I 

The  Colonial  and  Revolutionary  Period 

PAGE 

THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL  LITERATURE  3 

Definition— intellectual  sources— Renaissance  and  Reformation— the 
middle  class-motives  for  colonization,  economic,  patriotic,  and  re- 
ligious-conditions for  literature  in  the  early  colonies -Virginia  and 
the  southern  and  middle  colonies -New  England 

EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  17 

Captain  John  Smith;  his  "American"  quality-John  Pory-William 
Strachey- Colonel  Henry  Norwood-John  Hammond- George 
Alsop-Adriaen  van  der  Donck-Daniel  Denton-the  Swedish  set- 
tlements-the  Carolinas-John  Lawson- William  Penn  and  the 
Pennsylvania  Quakers -William  Byrd  of  Virginia 

PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  35 

Character  of  early  New  England  literature -William  Wood- 
Thomas  Morton -Francis  Higginson- Puritanism;  its  encourage- 
ment  of  learning  and  writing- the.  Puritan  literary  theory;  its 
theological  and  psychological  bases-the  influence  of  the  audience 
-the  "plain  style" -Nathaniel  Ward-Roger  Williams -Puritan 
sermons-Thomas  Hooker-Thomas  Shepard-later  changes  in  the 
sermon  style -drama  form  in  Puritan  writing -Puritan  story-telling 
-Joseph  Morgan -books  of  "remarkable  providences" -Increase 
Mather-the  Mather  family-Cotton  Mather;  his  views  on  style; 
his  Political  Fables;  his  "spiritualizing  essays" -the  later  influence 
of  Puritanism 

POETS  AND  POETASTERS  53 

The  Puritan  impulse  toward  poetry -lack  of  interest  outside  New 
England -early  Virginian  verse -Ebenezer  Cook  of  Maryland - 
Thomas  Godfrey  and  William  Livingston -New  England  verse 
-Edward  Taylor-Mather  Byles  and  Joseph  Green-Benjamin 
Tompson-The  "Bay  Psalm  Book"- Michael  Wigglesworth- 
Anne  Bradstreet 

COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  66 

Motives  for  colonial  historiography -William  Strachey -Captain 
John  Smith's  Generall  Historie-a  narrative  of  Bacon's  rebellion- 
Robert  Beverley-histories  in  Carolina  and  Georgia-^  True  and 


viii  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

Historical  Narrative  by  Tailfer  and  others— Samuel  Smith— William 
Smith  of  New  York— Cad wallader  Colden— special  motives  for  his- 
torical writing  in  New  England— the  providential  interpretation  of 
history— William  Bradford— John  Winthrop— Edward  Johnson- 
attempts  to  revive  piety  by  providential  history— Nathaniel  Morton 
—historians  of  the  Indian  wars— Increase  Mather— John  Mason- 
Benjamin  Church  — Samuel  Penhallow— William  Hubbard;  his  Gen- 
eral History;  his  neglect  of  the  providential  theory— the  Indian 
"captivities"— Mary  Rowlandson— Jonathan  Dickinson— the  effect 
of  the  "captivities"— Daniel  Gookin's  defense  of  the  Indians;  his 
plan  for  a  general  history— Cotton  Mather's  Magnolia— Thomas 
Prince— William  Stith— Dr.  William  Douglass— Thomas  Hutch- 
inson 

6.  ASPECTS  OF  EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY 

COLONIAL    CULTURE 85 

Population— lines  of  cleavage  in  the  colonies— unifying  forces— 
the  fine  arts  and  the  analogy  to  literature— foreign  vs.  native 
standards— colonial  scientific  interests— the  secularization  of  society 
and  the  decline  of  the  old  religious  ardors— the  ideas  of  the  En- 
lightenment—education—the colleges— libraries— booksellers  and 
printers— almanacs— the  Ameses  and  their  almanac— newspapers— 
Boston  News-Letter— the  Zenger  trial— the  New  England  Courant 
—New  England  Weekly  Journal -Virginia  Gazette— Pennsylvania 
Gazette —magazines— General  Magazine  and  American  Magazine— 
nature  and  importance  of  the  magazines— William  Livingston- 
Provost  William  Smith— encouragement  of  native  writers— variety 
in  content  of  magazines— music  — the  feminine  audience— illustra- 
tions—foreign  language  periodicals— Noah  Webster's  American 
Magazine— Cotton  Mather,  the  scientist— Charles  Chauncy,  the 
theologian— the  Great  Awakening— Samuel  Johnson,  scholar  and 
philosopher— Sarah  Knight's  account  of  her  colonial  travels— Dr. 
Alexander  Hamilton's  ltinerarium 

7.  JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN        106 

The  contrast  between  the  two— Edwards's  life;  reading  of  Locke 
and  Newton;  his  conversion;  the  "new  simple  idea";  concern  for 
emotion  in  religion  and  study  of  religious  psychology;  views  on 
church  membership;  defense  of  Northampton  revivals  and  Great 
Awakening;  central  theological  doctrines;  opposition  to  Armini- 
anism;  Enquiry  into  the  freedom  of  the  will;  vision  of  true  freedom; 
idea  of  virtue  and  of  God's  purpose  in  creation;  imaginative  and 
intellectual  power  in  the  History  of  . . .  Redemption;  style;  Images 
or  Shadows  of  Divine  Things;  use  of  images  from  nature;  sense 
of  mystery;  importance  for  later  artists— Franklin^&Jife;  varied 
achievements;  religious  attitude;  relation  to  Puritanism;  practical 
moral  attitude;  position  as  an  American  hero  and  prophet;  views 
on  music;  on  education;  scientific  attitude;  adaptation  of  literary 
method  to  audience;  use  of  the  hoax;  letter  to  Mme  Helvetius; 
aphorisms;  interest  in  living  language;  in  the  comic  — importance  of 
Franklin  and  Edwards  in  American  intellectual  history 


CONTENTS  ix 

CHAPTER  PA(.K 

8.  WOOLMAN,   CREVECOEUR,    AND   THE   ROMANTIC 

VISION  OF  AMERICA ,24 

Woolman  the  spokesman  of  colonial  Quakerism;  his  life;  Journal; 
essays  — Sevvall  and  other  writers  against  Slavery— Woolman's  anti- 
Slavery  views;  pacificism;  economic  principles;  style— Michel- 
Guillaume  Jean  de  Crevecoeur;  his  life;  style;  Letters  from  an 
American  Farmer;  attitude  toward  the  New  World;  love  of  nature; 
popularity7  abroad  — influence  of  colonial  writing  on  some  European 
ideas  about  America  — Jonathan  Carver's  Travels— John  Bartram  — 
Lewis  Evans— William  Bartram 

9.  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY 

CONTROVERSY 136 

The  literary  background  of  the  Revolution— John  Wise  — Jonathan 
Mayhew  —  contribution  of  the  nonconformist  clergy  to  the  Revo- 
lution; their  influence  in  the  colleges— the  attitude  of  the  colonial 
Anglicans— Jacob  Duche— Jonathan  Boucher— the  lawyers— Daniel 
Dulany— James  Otis— John  Adams— the  Loyalists— Joseph  Gallo- 
way—Daniel Leonard— John  Dickinson,  the  patriot  penman— Sam- 
uel Seabury,  the  best  of  the  Loyalist  writers— Alexander  Hamilton's 
reply  to  him— Thomas  Paine,  revolutionary  propagandist 

10.  THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON 156 

Effect  of  the  Revolution  on  writers  and  audiences— Francis  Hop- 
kinson— John  Trumbull— The  Progress  of  Dullness— NPFingal— 
Trumbull's  interest  in  the  stage— theatrical  conditions  in  the 
colonies— paucity  of  American  playwrights— the  effect  of  the  Revo- 
lution on  drama— Thomas  Godfrey's  Prince  of  Parthia— plays  on 
American  themes— Mercy  Warren's  patriotic  plays— other  Revolu- 
tionary dramatists— Robert  Munford  —  Philip  Freneau;  his  career; 
forced  into  political  and  satiric  writing;  his  ideas;  his  poetic  tech- 
nique—the Tory  satirists,  Joseph  Stansbury  and  Jonathan  Odell— 
Freneau's  satires;  his  poetic  achievement— the  relation  of  Revolu- 
tionary literature  to  colonial  writing— the  importance  of  the 
colonial  period  in  the  history  of  American  literature 

PART  II 

The  Establishment  of  National  Literature 

11.  POLITICS  AND  POETRY 175 

The  writings  of  Washington,  Madison,  Jefferson,  and  Hamilton  — 
the  Federalist  papers— letters  as  literature,  Abigail  Adams— Feder- 
alist and  Democrat  in  literature  — Dwight,  Barlow,  and  Humphreys 
—  national  songs 

12.  EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA 190 

Early  types  of  fiction— the  sentimental  novel  of  intrigue  — the  ro- 
mance   of    adventure  — Brockden    Brown's    idealistic    treatment    of 


x  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

native  characters  in  a  realistic  background;  his  influence  on  Ameri- 
can and  British  writers— difficulties  of  the  theatre— the  coming  of 
comedy  in  Roy  all  Tyler— William  Dunlap,  first  playwright  pro- 
ducer—James N.  Barker,  dramatist  of  national  themes— John  How- 
ard Payne,  playwright  of  universal  motives 

13.  NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES 211 

The  combination  of  national  and  universal  impulses  in  Washington 
Irving,  a  pioneer  in  the  short  story;  his  familiar  essay;  his  history 
and  biography;  his  attack  on  the  "small  town  mind"— James  K. 
Paulding's  fiction— John  Neal  in  fiction  and  essay— Nathaniel 
Parker  Willis,  the  urbane  note  in  essay  and  fiction 

14.  THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER     226 

James  Fenimore  Cooper,  novelist  of  the  forest  and  the  sea— the 
frontier  of  the  West  and  South— Timothy  Flint  and  James  Hall— 
Mrs.  Kirkland's  Northwest— Longstreet's  Georgia  Scenes— "New 
England  romance  by  Miss  Sedgwick  and  Mrs.  Child— Robert  M. 
Bird's  romance  of  Mexico,  of  the  Revolution,  and  of  Kentucky— the 
Southern  romances  of  history,  John  P.  Kennedy,  William  Gilmore 
Simms—  Herman  -Melville's  exotic  frontier;  the  conflict  of  man  and 
beast  in  Moby  Dick 

15.  THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH 

William  Cullen  Bryant,  the  poet  of  the  abstract,  of  nature,  death, 
and  the  past;  his  translation  of  the  Iliad  and  the  Odyssey;  his  prose; 
Lectures  on  Poetry;  his  public  addresses  and  editorials;  his  descrip- 
tion of  the  American  Scene;  his  unique  contribution  to  our  litera- 
ture—Fitz-Greene  Halleck;  his  concrete  poetry  of  Death;  his  verse 
tributes  to  Drake  and  Burns— Joseph  Rodman  Drake,  poet  of  fancy 
—  Richard  Henry  Dana 


e 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM 

Unitarianism  and  Transcendentalism  in  New  England— W.  E. 
Channing  the  elder  ^Theodore  Parker— native  and  foreign  inspira- 
tion—the "Transcendental  Club"— Brook  Farm— the  Dial— Orestes 
Brownson's  Boston  Quarterly  —  other  periodicals— Henry  David 
Thoreau,  the  individualist,  the  lover  of  nature;  his  limitations 

17.    INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE 

Emerson's  many  sided  life;  his  Transcendental  period;  his  first  book 
Nature;  his  central  thought,  the  supremacy  of  the  primal  mind;  the 
relation  of  the  primal  mind  and  the  individual  lead  to  his  study  of 
Oriental  philosophy;  the  independence  of  the  individual;  his  prac- 
tical idealism;  his  volumes  of  essays;  his  artistry  in  verse;  his  choice 
of  "Representative  Men";  his  description  of  England;  his  criticism 
of  science;  his  influence  on  the  thought  of  his  own  day  in  America 
and  England 


CONTENTS  xi 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

1 8.  BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL 292 

Poe's  ancestry  and  early  life;  his  devotion  to  poetry  and  his  first 
volume  in  1831;  his  hard  struggle  and  his  early  fiction;  his  success 
as  editor  of  the  Southern  Literary  Messenger  and  Graham's  Maga- 
zine; The  Rave?i  and  Other  Poems  establishes  his  reputation;  the 
peath  of  Virginia  and  his  friendship  with  women;  his  death  and 
Griswold's  forgeries  in  his  attack  upon  Poe's  reputation;  defences 
(by  Willis  and  Graham;  analysis  of  Poe's  poetry  and  fiction;  his 
mastery  of  verse;  his  treatment  of  the  supernatural  and  of  science; 
his  great  influence  here  and  in  Europe  and  South  America;  his 
stories  of  ratiocination— Fitz-James  O'Brien  as  a  pupil  of  Poe 

19.  THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE 308 

Hawthorne's  life,  his  short  stories  of  Colonial  history  and  of  the 
"supernatural;  his  progress  from  the  short  story  to  the  novel;  the 
effect  of  sin  in  The  Scarlet  Letter;  the  origin  of  that  symbol;  the  tra- 
dition of  evil  in  The  House  of  Seven  Gables;  the  satire  on  reformers 
in  The  Blithedale  Romance;  his  consulate  at  Liverpool;  the  maturity 
of  conscience  in  The  Marble  Faun;  the  novels  unfinished  at  his 
death;  the  tributes  by  Emerson  and  Holmes;  his  permanent  artistry 

20.  WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY 322 

Longfellow  as  a  representative  of  two  tendencies,  to  relate  poetry  to 
native  scenes  and  to  broaden  the  horizons  of  interest;  early  narra- 
tives and  prose  romances;  the  great  narratives,  Evangeline, 
Hiawatha,  Miles  Standish;  dramatic  poetry;  his  philosophy  of 
composition;  his  supreme  achievements,  the  sonnets;  foreign  influ- 
ence upon  Longfellow;  Longfellow's  influence  upon  European  and 
Asiatic  literatures;  the  great  number  of  translations  of  his  poetry; 
his  supreme  position  as  a  world  artist 

21.  THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL 347 

Early  life  and  influence  on  Whittier;  he  joins  the  Abolition  crusade; 
his  most  significant  work,  the  description  of  New  England  life  in 
Snow  Bound  and  other  poems;  his  hatred  of  persecution  and  his 
love  of  democracy;  his  prose;  the  uneven  quality  of  his  work  and 
his  sectional  appeal— Bayard  Taylor's  early  life;  his  encouragement 
by  Whittier;  popularity  of  his  travel  books;  his  most  significant 
work,  the  poetry  of  rural  Pennsylvania;  his  best  novel,  The  Story 
of  Kennett,  a  provincial  institution;  his  translation  of  Faust  still 
the  best  in  English;  his  Ministry  to  Germany 

22.  THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE 361 

The  significance  of  Holmes  in  the  development  of  American 
thought;  his  poetry;  the  Breakfast  Table  Series  of  Essays;  his 
imaginative  treatment  of  versification;  his  success  with  social  verse; 
his  one  great  novel,  Elsie  Venner;  his  devotion  to  New  England 


xii  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

23.   PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY  .        ; 374 

Lowell's  devotion  to  freedom;  his  early  life;  Conversations  on  the 
Old  Poets;  the  three  great  poems  of  1848;  influence  of  Maria 
Lowell;  editor  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  of  the  North  American 
Review;  Minister  to  Spain  and  to  Great  Britain;  phases  of  his  poetry; 
the  great  odes;  his  democracy;  his  essays,  descriptive,  historical, 
familiar,  educational 


0 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  .     .     384 

Descriptive,  destructive,  analytic,  and  constructive  criticism— early 
criticism— Bryant's  discussion  of  basic  principles— Poe's  independ- 
ence, his  constructive  definitions  of  poetry,  and  of  the  short  story; 
his  belief  in  universality  in  art;  his  dramatic  criticism;  his  "Philoso- 
phy of  Composition";  his  limitations  in  the  "Rationale  of  Verse";  the 
summit  of  his  criticism  in  "The  Poetic  Principle";  the  influence  of 
his  criticism  abroad— Emerson  the  intuitive  critic;  his  reading  as  in- 
spiration; his  "American  Scholar,"  a  critical  declaration  of  inde- 
pendence; his  best  criticism,  that  on  poetry;  his  limitations  in  treat- 
ing drama  and  fiction;  his  brilliant  insight  in  the  Essays  on  "Shake- 
speare" and  "Plato"— Lowell's  ability  at  depicting  the  character- 
istics of  a  literary  period,  or  of  a  race;  his  belief  in  universality  in 
literature;  contrast  of  the  early  and  later  essays;  his  understanding 
of  Spenser,  Shakespeare,  and  Pope;  his  analysis  of  Hamlet;  his  wide 
reading  and  assimilative  power 

25.   LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY       .  .      .423 

The  role  of  men  of  letters  in  politics— the  party  of  leadership  and 
the  party  of  institutions— the  preservation  of  the  Union  and  the 
abolition  of  slavery— Webster's  identification  of  liberty  and  Union 
—the  party  of  leadership  attracts  Irving,  Bryant,  Bancroft,  Cooper, 
and  Hawthorne— the  patrician  democracy  of  Cooper  and  his  hatred 
of  oligarchy,  in  his  fiction  and  essays— Bancroft's  History  reveals 
the  growth  of  the  idea  of  Union  in  the  Colonies— Hawthorne's 
support  of  the  party  of  leadership  as  a  "War  Democrat"— The 
Scarlet  Letter,  and  attack  upon  the  "small  town  mind"— Emer- 
son's criticism  of  the  Whigs  for  not  facing  the  Slavery  question, 
his  early  attacks  on  the  Union,  his  political  foresight— Longfellow's 
great  service  to  the  cause  of  the  Union  in  his  "Building  of  the 
Ship,"  the  effect  of  Fanny  Kemble's  recitations  of  the  poem;  its 
effect  in  England— Whittier  as  a  practical  politician;  his  attacks  on 
the  Union;  his  poetic  crusade  against  Slavery— Lowell's  many  po- 
litical writings;  his  fundamental  love  of  freedom;  The  Bigloiv 
Papers'  support  of  Abolition;  his  attack  on  the  Whigs  for  cowardice; 
his  poetic  and  editorial  services  in  defence  of  the  Union  during  the 
Civil  War— Boker's  services  to  the  Union  in  politics  and  in  poetry— 
Thoreau's  secessionist  doctrine  and  his  defence  of  John  Brown 
—  Mrs.  Stowe's  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  and  her  predecessors  in  anti- 
Slavery  fiction— Northern  writers  who  held  the  Union  more  im- 
portant than  Abolition— Poe's  attitude  toward  Slavery— literature  of 
secession  and  pro-Slavery,  Simms,  Grayson,  and  others— pro-Slavery 


CONTENTS  xiii 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

novels— the  choice  of  the  party  of  leadership  by  a  majority  of  the 
men  of  letters,  until  the  Civil  War;  their  welcome  of  Lincoln  as  a 
representative  of  the  Union 

26.  REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA      .      .     466 

Changes  in  drama  and  theatre  caused  by  social  and  economic  con- 
ditions of  the  people  —  Penn  Smith  and  democracy  in  the  drama 
—  R.  A  I.  Bird's  revolt  against  tyranny  in  The  Gladiator  and  other 
sterling  plays— Willis's  Tortesa— other  historical  plays  inspired  by 
democratic  revolt  abroad  and  Jackson's  victory  at  home— triumph 
of  the  poetic  drama— Boker's  tragedies  and  comedies  culminating  in 
Francesca  da  Rimini,  the  supreme  achievement  in  drama  of  the 
nineteenth  century— American  history  on  the  stage  in  prose;  the 
Indian  plays,  dramas  of  Colonial  life,  of  the  Revolution,  of  con- 
temporary events— Abolition  plays—  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  on  the 
stage— dramatic  types  in  the  Yankee  plays,  the  dramas  of  low  life, 
social  satires— the  development  of  Rip  Van  Winkle— Negro  char- 
acters in  drama— Boucicault's  influence  on  our  stage,  his  Octoroon 
and  his  plays  of  Irish  life;  his  creation  of  the  travelling  company 
and  its  profound  effect  on  the  stage 

27.  THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS 519 

Bancroft's  History  of  the  United  States;  his  research  in  England 
and  France;  his  dramatic  style  and  character  drawing;  his  philoso- 
phy of  history;  his  Literary  and  Historical  Miscellanies— Prescott's 
struggle  against  optical  handicaps;  his  Ferdinand  and  Isabella;  his 
critical  work;  his  Conquest  of  Mexico  and  Conquest  of  Peru;  his 
wide  scholarship  and  impartiality;  his  character  portrayal— Motley's 
two  novels;  his  Rise  of  the  Dutch  Republic  and  The  United  Nether- 
lands; an  advocate  rather  than  a  historian;  contrast  with  Prescott— 
collectors  and  editors  of  historical  sources 

28.  LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS 534 

Parallel  developments  in  literature  and  in  painting,  sculpture,  archi- 
tecture, and  music— the  school  of  portrait  painters  founded  by 
C.  W.  Peale  and  Gilbert  Stuart— historical  paintings;  the  influence 
of  classical  literature  and  the  Bible— William  Dunlap's  chronicles 
of  the  arts  of  drama  and  of  design— union  of  literary  and  plastic 
arts  in  Washington  Allston;  his  influence  upon  other  artists— Emer- 
son's theory  of  the  arts— reciprocal  influence  of  literature,  theatre, 
and  painting  in  Thomas  Sully— pastels  and  miniatures— the  "primi- 
tives"—Genre  painting  of  Henry  Inman,  J.  L.  Krimmel,  W.  S. 
Mount,  and  G.  C.  Bingham  parallel  the  depiction  of  American  life 
by  Longfellow,  Whittier,  and  Lowell,  and  by  the  dramatists;  the  In- 
dian and  the  Negro  types  in  poetry,  fiction,  painting,  and  sculp- 
ture—paintings of  the  "American  Scene"  in  Philadelphia,  and  the 
"Hudson  River  School"— collaboration  of  Irving,  Bryant,  Cooper, 
Willis,  and  Taylor  with  painters  like  Cole,  Church,  Kensett,  and 
Weir  in  the  Home  Book  of  the  Picturesque— democracy  in  the 
Currier  and  Ives  Prints— painting  and  science  joined  in  Audubon  — 


xiv  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

sculpture  begins  with  the  Yankee  stone  cutters— Horatio  Greenough 
develops  the  functional  purpose  in  art— Hiram  Powers'  "Greek 
Slave"  shocks  the  public— Hawthorne's  analysis  of  American  sculp- 
ture—the combination  of  poet  and  sculptor  in  W.  W.  Story— a 
native  democratic  art  in  the  "Rogers  Groups"— Jefferson  and  Emer- 
son support  the  classical  influence  in  architecture— Hawthorne's 
love  of  the  Gothic— Poe's  theories  concerning  landscape  architec- 
ture—Longfellow's comparison  of  architecture,  painting,  and  sculp- 
ture in  Michael  Angelo  —  development  of  the  folk  songs— the  Negro 
spirituals— Stephen  Foster's  songs— the  folk  songs  of  Spanish  and 
French  origin— symphonic  compositions  based  on  the  works  of 
Irving,  Longfellow,  Poe,  Hawthorne,  and  Whitman 


PART  III 

The  Later  Nineteenth  Century 

29.   THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  .      .     .      .     569 

Effects  of  the  Civil  War  on  literary  production— Lincoln  and  other 
figures  given  prominence  by  the  war— chief  trends  in  the  period 
1 865- 1 900— major  contributions  in  literature  of  the  era— accomplish- 
ments in  wood  engraving,  painting,  sculpture,  architecture,  and 
music— popular  taste  and  the  book  trade— the  periodicals 

DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE 598 

WWtman's  background;  his  interest  in  democratic  trends  through- 
ouftrTeworld;  his  attitude  toward  democratic  progress  in  America; 
his  career  and  the  history  of  Leaves  of  Grass;  the  arrangement  of 
his  poems  in  the  definitive  edition;  his  later  prose 

31.  NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES 622 

Status  of  poetry  after  the  Civil  War;  its  epigenous  nature— Aid- 
rich,  Stedman,  Miller,  Hayne,  Lanier— the  vogue  of  verse  in  dialect 

32.  EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  639 

The  terms  "local-color"  and  "regional"— the  tradition  of  local- 
color  fiction  and  the  similarity  of  the  movement  in  America  and 
Europe— Harte  and  the  Far  Western  authors— the  Middle-Western 
school,  Eggleston,  Garland— the  Southerners,  Cable,  Harris— New 
Englanders  in  the  wake  of  Mrs.  Stowe,  Sarah  Jewett,  Mary  Wilkins 
Freeman— decline  of  interest  in  genre  fiction  of  the  late  nineteenth 
century 

33.  REAIJSM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS 661 

Signs  of  a  small  trend  toward  realism— Rebecca  Harding  Davis— De 
Forest— Howclls;  his  career;  his  fiction,  verse,  and  criticism 


CONTENTS  xv 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

34.  ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE 681 

The  tradition  of  respect  for  European  material  and  the  lure  of  the 
foreign  — the  travel-book  writers  — the  expatriates  — Crawford,  Hcarn 

—  Henry  Ianj£S;  his  vogue,  career,  fiction,  plays,  and  criticism;  his 
emphasis  on  consciousness  rather  than  conscience 

35.  MIRTH  FOR  THE  A4ILLION 701 

Humor  as  escape  from  the  commonplace— the  widespread  tradition 
of  mirth  in  print— lowbrow  humorists,  the  journalists,  Artemus 
Ward  — highbrow  humorists,  Warner,  Stockton,  Bunner,  and  Bangs 

—  Mark  Twain;  reasons  for  interest  of  intellectuals  in  Clemens 
after  his  death;  his  career;  the  insignificance  of  his  philosophical 
opinions;  his  better  works;  his  continuing  popularity 

36.  NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE 721 

Verse  published  in  the  later  years  of  the  nineteenth  century  — light 
verse— Tabb,  Cawein,  Hovey,  Sill,  Woodberry,  VanDyke,  Lodge, 
Stickney— the  female  poets— Emily  Dickinson;  her  life  and  work; 
history  of  publication  of  her^oooks;  nature  of  her  subject  matter; 
unfinished  condition  of  many  of  her  poems 

37.  THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING       737 

Prevailing  attitude  toward  naturalism  or  advanced  realism— ro- 
mance favored— treatment  of  sex— Saltus— Frederic,  Fuller,  Norris 

—  Crane,  his  career  and  accomplishments  in  prose  and  verse  — his- 
torical importance  — more  typical  fiction  of  the  late  century  to  be 
found  in  the  stories  of  Bierce,  Davis,  and  Townsend 

38.  THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  AND  OF 

SCIENCE 763 

Literature  of  the  late  century  less  interested  in  such  problems  than 
is  the  case  at  present— examples  of  interest  in  sociological  and 
economic  subjects— Tourgee,  Henry  George,  Bellamy— attitude 
toward  "socialism"— Science  honored  but  not  very  influential  on 
belles-lettres— Burroughs,  Muir— vogue  of  Spencer— Fiske— "evolu- 
tion" a  catchword— Weir  Mitchell— historians  affected  by  scientific 
temper— Mahan— Parkman— Adams;  his  career  and  interest  in  sci- 
ence; his  fiction,  history,  and  letters 

39.  AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE 79° 

Increase  in  number  of  actors  and  playwrights— taste  of  public— 
Ben-Hur  and  Wallace— star  system  and  "theatrical  trust"— copy- 
right situation— Howells  as  playwright— Harrigan,  Howard,  Heme, 
Gillette,  Belasco  —  promise  held  out  by  nineties  for  future  develop- 
ments 


xvi  CONTENTS 

PART  IV 

The  Twentieth  Century 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

40.  LINGERING  URBANITY ...     813 

Transition  to  a  new  century— instability  of  late  nineteenth-century 
culture— W.  C.  Brownell  as  upholder  of  standards— the  familiar 
essay,  Agnes  Repplier— in  the  wake  of  Henry  James,  Edith  Whar- 
ton and  the  novel  of  social  relationships— international  contrasts  as 
studied  by  Anne  Douglas  Sedgwick— the  poetry  of  E.  A.  Robinson, 
characters,  philosophy,  psychic  probings,  redemplrion  by  art— 
Lizette  Reese  and  lesser  poets— dramatists  of  the  first  decade, 
Thomas,  Fitch,  Belasco 

41.  THE  CONSCIENCE  OF  LIBERALISM 825 

Mounting  disillusionment  with  the  American  system— Markham  and 
the  poetry  of  social  protest— Moody's  poems  on  political  issues— 
the  Muckrakers,  Ida  Tarbell,  StefFens,  Baker;  their  autobiographies 
—  social  satire,  propaganda,  and  criticism  in  the  fiction  of  D.  G. 
Phillips,  Upton  Sinclair,  and  Robert  Herrick— spiritual  revolt  in  the 
drama,  Moody's  plays,  Josephine  Peabody  and  poetic  drama,  Percy 
MacKaye  and  the  community  drama— Randolph  Bourne's  last 
stand  for  the  life  of  reason— poems  inspired  by  the  First  World 
War,  notably  the  war  songs  of  G.  M.  Cohan 

42.  SPOKESMEN  OF  THE  PLAIN  PEOPLE 835 

Popular  humorists,  Dunne,  Rogers,  George  Ade— "O.  Henry"  in 
the  hearts  of  the  four  million— Tarkington  and  Bromfield  as  nov- 
elists of  the  average  American— Pearl  Buck  and  the  Orient  — poets 
of  the  valley  of  democracy,  Vachel  Lindsay  and  Carl  Sandburg 

43.  RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED 845 

Decline  of  the  genteel  tradition— the  glorification  of  the  primitive 
in  Jack  London's  stories— the  submerged  world  of  Theodore 
Dreiser;  the  relation  of  his  life  to  his  fiction;  his  indifference  to 
craftsmanship;  his  analysis  of  modern  materialism— the  inadequacies 
of  city  life  catalogued  by  James  T.  Farrell— Thorstein  Veblen 
and  the  attack  on  the  complacent  leisure  class— H.  L.  Mencken's 
exploitation  of  the  "booboisie"— the  satires  of  Sinclair  Lewis— the 
hollowness  of  middle  class  life  as  a  theme  of  drama,  Zona  Gale, 
Connelly  and  Kaufman,  George  Kelly 

44.  IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS      ....     857 

Emphasis  on  new  techniques  of  expression  in  all  the  arts— symptoms 
of  decadence— James  Gibbons  Huneker  as  the  fugelman  of  esthetic 
advance— Ezra  Pound  as  the  inventor  of  modernistic  poetry;  the 
influence  of  his  experiments— the  Imagist  movement,  featuring  Amy 
Lowell— the    independence    of    John    Gould    Fletcher— "H.    D., 


CONTENTS  xvii 

Imagiste"— Gertrude  Stein  and  her  experimental  techniques  — Con- 
rad Aiken  and  the  new  psychology  — the  early  poems  of  Archibald 
MacLeish 

45.  ANALYSTS   OF   DECAY 868 

American  literature  fails  to  reflect  the  rise  of  the  United  States  to 
world  power  — reasons  for  its  defeatist  tone  — the  Spoon  River  An- 
thology as  a  symptom  of  the  time  — new  attitude  toward  American 
village    life   in   the    novels    of   Zona    Gale  — Sherwood    Anderson's  xj^^L 

probings  of  psychic  grotesques— T.  S.  Eliot  to  The  Waste  Land:  *  ' 
his  satirical  method  in  verse;  the  deliberate  direction  of  his  career 
reflected  in  his  critical  prose— Robinson  Jeffers,  the  complete 
misanthrope— naturalism  in  fiction,  Ring  Lardner— John  Dos  Passos 
—  Ernest  Hemingway— William  Faulkner  — Erskine  Caldwell— ex- 
haustion of  the  naturalistic  vein 

46.  LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT 887 

Various  avenues  of  escape  from  contemporary  dissatisfactions— 
romantic  hedonists,  F.  Scott  Fitzgerald  and  the  Jazz  Age— James 
Branch  Cabell's  satirical  dream-allegories— Hergesheimer— histori- 
cal romance,  Winston  Churchill,  James  Boyd,  Kenneth  Roberts, 
Walter  D.  Edmonds— Stephen  Vincent  Benet  and  national  epic— 
the  romance  of  the  pioneer,  Conrad  Richter— the  freedom  of  open 
spaces,  Stewart  Edward  White— scientific  nature  writers,  William 
Beebe,  Donald  Culross  Peattie— lyric  armor,  Sara  Teasdale,  Elinor 
Wylie,  Edna  Millay— the  retreat  to  authority,  Irving  Babbitt,  Paul 
Elmer  More  — the  later  T.  S.  Eliot,  Ash-Wednesday,  philosophical- 
religious  dramas, '  the  Fow^Quartets 

47.  IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN 900 

Academic  contributions  to  national  letters— Robert  Frost  as  a  poet 
in  the  American  tradition;  the  long  curve  of  his  growth  from  dra- 
matic lyric  to  reflective  poetry;  his  masques— Willa  Cather's  search 
for  a  more  abundant  life;  her  studies  of  triumphant  personalities; 
analysis  of  personal  disintegration;  civilization  as  the  protagonist 
of  her  greater  novels— Dorothy  Canfield  Fisher,  a  sturdy  defender 
of  hard-won  values— the  meaning  of  America  to  the  immigrant, 
Rolvaag  and  Sophus  Keith  Winther 

48.  THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH 914 

Gradual  recovery  of  the  southern  states  from  the  paralysis  induced 
by  war  and  reconstruction— a  candid  appraisal  of  rigid  conventions 
in  the  novels  of  Ellen  Glasgow;  strong  elements  of  realism  in  her 
social  comedy— other  regionalists,  Elizabeth  Madox  Roberts,  T.  S. 
Stribling,  Marjorie  Kinnan  Rawlings— exploitation  of  Negro  themes 
by  white  authors,  Du  Bose  Heyward,  Julia  Peterkin,  Roark  Brad- 
ford—the contributions  of  Negro  writers  to  a  national  culture  — 
regional  drama  in  the  work  of  Paul  Green  and  others  — regional- 
conscious  poets  and  critics,  the  Fugitive  group,  John  Crowe  Ransom, 


* 


* 


xviii  CONTENTS 


Allen  Tate,  and  others— the  outpourings  of  Thomas  Wolfe— women 
writers  of  fiction,  Katherine  Anne  Porter,  Eudora  Welty,  Anne 
Goodwin  Winslow 


49.    VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA 927 

The  movement  begun  by  Moody  continued  by  Edward  Sheldon 
and  Rachel  Crothers— contribution  of  the  Little  Theatre— the  pre- 
eminence of  Eugene  O'Neill  as  an  experimental  dramatist;  his  early 
one-act  plays;  Beyond  the  Horizon;  tragedies  of  frustration;  sym- 
bolic plays;  the  poetic  theme  of  Lazarus  Laughed;  Strange  Interlude, 
Mourning  Becomes  Electra,  The  Iceman  Cometh— adventures  out 
of  sight  of  land,  Philip  Barry,  Thornton  Wilder,  Maxwell  Anderson 
—some  outstanding  single  plays— favorite  themes,  the  heroism  of 
science,  the  anatomy  of  politics— growing  maturity  of  American 
audiences 


50.  CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  .942 

Over-emphasis  on  analytic  thinking  in  an  age  of  science  and  result- 
ing unbalance  — influence  of  European  thinkers— the  Harvard  Yard 
philosophers,  Josiah  Royce,  William  James,  George  Santayana— the 
instrumentalism  of  John  Dewey— influence  of  the  new  physics 
through  Alfred  North  Whitehead— writers  on  sociology,  law,  and 
government,  William  Graham  Sumner,  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes, 
Jr.,  Woodrow  Wilson— the  scientific  historians,  James  Ford  Rhodes, 
John  B.  McMaster,  Edward  P.  Cheyney,  James  Harvey  Robinson— 
the  economic  determinism  of  Charles  A.  Beard  — fresh  interest  in 
American  backgrounds— industrial  and  military  history 

51.  PROLETARIAN  LEANINGS 954 

Interest  in  the  working  man  previous  to  the  Russian  Revolution— 
John  Reed  — the  effect  of  the  depression  period  on  unstable  in- 
tellectuals, Max  Eastman  and  others— the  case  of  Granville  Hicks— 
Marxian  novels— Proletarian  Literature  in  the  United  States— the 
social  significance  and  dubious  literary  significance  of  John  Stein- 
beck—left-wing drama,  Clifford  Odets,  Irwin  Shaw,  and  others- 
trie  theatre  not  a  happy  medium  for  the  expression  of  Marxist 
ideology 

52.  NEW  MOVEMENTS  IN  POETRY 963 

Poetic  reactions  in  a  time  of  cultural  disintegration— the  stimulus 
of  Freudian  psychology,  folk-lore,  anthropology— the  perpetual 
adolescence  of  Edward  Estlin  Cummings— the  intellectual  lyricism 
of  Marianne  Moore,  Louise  Bogan,  and  Leonie  Adams— Hart  Crane 
soars  on  wings  of  wax  — masters  of  the  symbol,  Wallace  Stevens  and 
William  Carlos  Williams— public  speech,  the  later  MacLeish  and 
Kenneth  Fearing 


CONTENTS  xix 

53.    TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS  AND  PRESSURES        973 

Improvement  of  the  economic  status  of  literary  workers— effect 
on  the  quality  of  books  produced  — enlargement  of  the  audience- 
new  commercial  outlets  for  books— increased  freedom  of  expres- 
sion—the leveling  of  literature  under  big  business  — multiplication  of 
pressure  groups— reaction  to  standardization  and  commercialism,  the 
little  theatre,  the  little  magazine  — the  new  journalism,  the  column, 
the  profile  — public  demand  for  biographies  and  war  books— new 
media  of  communication  and  their  availability  for  literature,  the 
movies,  the  radio,  television— the  always  ambivalent  future 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 985 

INDEX 1 109 


PART  I 


The  Colonial  and 
Revolutionary  Period 


BY 


KENNETH  B.  MURDOCK 


What  is  the  soul  of  a  nation?  It  must  be  born,  like  all  else  that 
is  human,  from  suffering;  the  lives  of  many  men,  through  long 
years  of  history ,  must  give  it  fragrance.  It  must  draw  its  strength 
from  a  great  faith  in  something,  Divine  or  human.  At  some  time 
in  its  history,  the  nation  must  have  read  its  fate  in  that  invisi- 
ble writing  which  becomes  legible  only  in  the  fierce  light  of  a 
great  peril.  Without  beauty  there  can  be  no  soul  for  a  nation. 
And  while  it  may  draw  its  beauty  from  all  lands  and  races, 
some  quality— and  that  the  most  precious— must  be  its  own. 

And  last,  there  must  be  in  a  nation's  soul  a  forecast  of  im- 
mortality. A  vision,  such  as  that  which  kindled  the  creative 
spirit  that  built  the  pyramids  of  Egypt,  the  Parthenon  of 
Athens,  the  Cathedral  of  Chartres,  must  be  part  of  the  soul  of 
a  nation  that  is  to  live,  even  after  its  earthly  power  is  gone.  But 
for  the  merchant  fleets  of  Phoenicia,  there  is  an  oblivion  so 
deep  that  even  the  alphabet  they  carried  past  the  pillars  of 
Hercules  cannot  frame  words  to  record  it. 

It  is  because  this  vision  is  best  expressed  by  the  literature  of 
a  nation  that  this  history  has  been  written. 


Chapter  1 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL 
LITERATURE 


I  American  colonial  literature  is  a  record  of  the  spiritual  and  intellectual 
^.transformation  of  a  variety  of  transplanted  Europeans  into  Americans.  It 
tells  the  story  of  men  of  different  abiding  places  in  the  New  World,  who, 
in  the  space  of  a  century  and  a  half,  came  to  think  sufficiently  alike  to 
make  it  possible  for  them  to  conduct  a  revolution  and  finally  to  found  a 
new  nation.  They  wrote  of  their  hardships  and  successes,  their  fears  and 
dreams,  their  moral  and  material  aspirations,  in  all  sorts  of  forms  and  pro- 
duced a  body  of  writing  which  was  impressive  in  bulk  and,  considering 
that  its  authors  were  necessarily  preoccupied  with  other  than  artistic  con- 
cerns, surprisingly  rich  in  pages  which  are  memorable  for  style  as  well 
as  content. 

To  call  this  writing  "American  literature"  is  to  use  a  term  few  of 
its  creators  would  have  understood.  The  earliest  of  them  thought  of  them- 
selves simply  as  Europeans;  most  of  them,  long  after  they  began  to  be 
conscious  of  themselves  as  Massachusetts  men,  Virginians,  or  New  Yorkers 
were  still  loyal  to  the  lands  from  which  they  came  and  would  have  ac- 
cepted the  adjective  "American"  only  in  a  narrow  geographical  sense. 
Even  in  the  late  eighteenth  century  when  the  problems  which  underlay 
the  Revolution  forced  the  colonists  to  contrast  colonial  and  European 
attitudes  and  made  "American"  a  useful  definition  of  more  than  a  place 
of  residence,  there  were  few  who  thought  of  what  they  wrote  as  any- 
thing like  a  national  literature  or  even  as  one  significantly  marked  by  local 
characteristics.  From  our  point  of  view,  however,  with  all  the  advantages 
of  hindsight,  it  is  easy  to  see  in  much  colonial  writing  plain  signs  of  its 
New  World  provenance  and  to  recognize  a  blood  kinship  with  the  un- 
deniably national  aspects  of  later  literature  in  the  United  States. 

The  test  of  the  Americanism  of  a  piece  of  colonial  literature  is  not  the 
place  in  which  it  was  written  nor  the  citizenship  of  its  author.  George 

3 


4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Sandys,  appointed  treasurer  of  the  Virginia  Company  in  162 1,  wrote  a 
good  deal  of  his  translation  of  Ovid  in  the  colony,  and  when  he  printed 
it  he  included  some  clear  references  to  his  Virginia  sojourn,  but  his  book 
is  not  "American"  any  more  than,  say,  Kipling's  work  while  he  lived  in 
New  England.  Sandys'  tone  and  attitude  is  that  of  the  other  English 
translators;  he  was  not  inspired  to  write  by  anything  specifically  Virginian. 
He  is,  accordingly,  excluded  from  the  American  canon;  so  are  most  of 
the  early  voyagers  who  wrote  of  their  passages  to  the  New  World  and 
their  visits  here  in  precisely  the  same  vein  they  used— or  would  have  used— 
in  describing  travels  in  other  parts  of  the  globe  without  showing  any 
special  devotion  to  Virginia. 

Captain  John  Smith,  on  the  other  hand,  does  belong  with  our  pioneer 
native  writers.  Virginia  was  the  source  of  all  his  writing;  he  wrote  nothing 
until  Virginia  captured  his  imagination.  He  was  an  "American"  author, 
even  while  he  was  a  loyal  subject  of  James  I,  because  the  New  World 
gave  him  his  impulse  toward  literature,  supplied  him  with  material,  and 
colored  his  most  characteristic  passages.  He  wrote  with  the  fervor  of  a 
man  who  had  fallen  in  love  with  the  colonies. 

If  the  Americanism  of  our  colonial  writers  is  to  be  determined  by  the 
sources  of  their  impulse  to  write  and  by  the  attitudes  with  which  they 
wrote,  what  is  the  test  of  their  literariness,  the  claim  of  their  work  to  be 
called  literature?  It  would  be  easy  to  fix  aesthetic  standards,  based  on 
present-day  definitions  of  excellence,  which  would  deprive  the  story  of 
early  American  literature  of  most  of  its  meaning  and  importance.  The 
artistic  criteria  of  the  colonists  were  often  quite  unlike  ours,  and  much 
writing  that  they  thought  was  good  may  leave  us  cold.  Atforeover,  a  large 
part  of  their  work  is  merely  mediocre,  when  judged  by  narrowly  drawn 
aesthetic  tests.  Even  in  the  less  artistically  successful  pages,  however,  there 
are  usually  other  values  no  less  real  than  the  aesthetic.  If  a  literature  is  the 
expression  of  the  mind  and  emotions  of  a  community,  a  record  of  its  ideas, 
our  definition  of  literary  value  must  be  broad  enough  to  include  not  only 
artistic  masterpieces  but  other  documents  which  show  what  we  as  a 
people  have  and  have  not  thought.  If  our  "native  authors . . .  express 
. . .  individual  adventures  and  the  social  sense  of  men  and  women  who" 
lived  in  conditions  related  to  our  own,1  and  if  "as  a  community,  we  must 
...  be  able  to  think  clearly  in  terms  of  international  relations,  and  ...  as 
a  first  step  toward  any  clarity  of  thought"  must  have  "a  knowledge  of 
the  course  of  American  thought  as  related  to  the  thought  of  the  world," 
we  cheat  ourselves  if  we  draw  the  boundaries  of  literary  history  too  nar- 
rowly. "When  an  American . . .  wishes  an  intimate  picture  of  American 
society"— past  and  present— "there  can  be  no  best  book  but  an  .American 
book . . .  even  though  it  be  immature,  unsatisfactory,  and  inferior  to  that 

1  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  "For  the  Higher  Study  of  American  Literature,"  Yale  Review, 
Vol.   12    (April,   1923),  p.  474. 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL  LITERATURE  5 

of  other  nations"  from  the  strictly  literary  point  of  view.-  The  only 
definition  of  literature  fully  useful  for  the  student  or  historian  of  colonial 
writing  is  one  which  covers  all  the  work  in  recognizable  literary  form 
which  reveals  intelligibly  and  competently  the  ideas  and  acts  of  the 
colonists. 

Most  of  the  national  literatures  we  know  best  start  with  a  "primitive" 
period,  and  originate  in  cultures  which  now  seem  archaic.  The  bridge 
from  Beouiilf  to  Shakespeare,  or  the  Norse  sagas  to  Voltaire  or  Goethe, 
is  a  long  one,  and  the  gulf  it  spans  wide  enough  to  force  most  of  us  to 
think  unjustly  that  everything  on  the  other  side  represents  a  rudimentary 
stage  of  a  progress  from  elementary  to  advanced,  naive  to  sophisticated, 
"ancient"  to  "modern."  This  way  of  thinking  misleads  critics  and  readers 
into  picturing  the  American  colonists  as  "primitives"  and  the  course  of 
American  writing  as  a  progress  from  the  darkness  of  the  past  to  the  sup- 
posed light  of  our  own  day.  Such  a  view  is  at  best  no  more  than  half 
true  and  leads  to  critical  conclusions  which  are  not  true  at  all. 

American  literature  begins  not  with  men  of  an  "ancient"  world,  but 
with  men  who  were  the  beneficiaries  of  new  ways  of  thought  and  partici- 
pants in  an  essentially  "modern"  culture  based  on  thinking  as  mature  in 
its  processes  as  our  own.  The  age  of  Rembrandt,  Grotius,  Shakespeare, 
Milton,  Kepler,  Bacon,  Hobbes,  Harvey,  Galileo,  Pascal,  Descartes,  and 
Lope  de  Vega  is  hardly  to  be  dubbed  either  "naive"  or  "immature."  Its 
intellectual  leaders  were  experienced  in  analyzing,  formulating,  and  acting 
upon  conclusions  as  valid  as  any  arrived  at  since,  on  a  variety  of  issues 
social,  political,  and  religious,  which  are  mutatis  mutandis  still  funda- 
mental and  woven  closely  into  the  texture  of  current  thought. 

The  words  "Renaissance"  and  "Reformation"  are  convenient  shorthand 
symbols  for  states  of  mind,  attitudes  toward  the  past,  present,  and  future, 
active  in  England  and  elsewhere  in  the  seventeenth  century.  Neither  word 
is  easy  to  define  exactly,  but  both  carry  enough  general  meaning  to  be 
valuable.  To  say  that  the  first  American  colonists  were  Renaissance  men 
and  men  of  the  Reformation  is  not  to  categorize  too  narrowly,  since  both 
terms  allow  for  many  varieties  of  thought  and  behavior,  but  simply  to 
use  phrases  which  go  as  far  as  any  two  can  to  suggest  dominant  elements 
in  the  spirit,  intellectual  scheme,  and  view  of  life  which  underlay  the 
thinking  and  action  of  the  colonists,  supplied  many  of  their  most  com- 
pelling motives,  and  accounted  for  many  of  their  most  characteristic 
traits. 

There  are  almost  as  many  definitions  of  the  Renaissance  as  there  are 
wrriters  about  it.  For  our  purposes  it  was  an  intellectual  and  artistic  re- 
vival, flowering  in  fourteenth-century  Italy  and  developing  and  ripening 
later  in  Germany,  France,  and  England.  There  were  a  renewed  interest^ 

2  Percy  H.  Boynton,  Some  Conte?nporary  Americans  (Chicago,  1924),  p.  10; 
Sherman,  Yale  Review,  Vol.  12,  pp.  474-475. 


6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

rin  the  classics  and  a  rediscovery  of  some  of  them;  an  increasing  spirit  of 
\humanism;  an  intensified  interest  in  external  nature  and  in  the  possibilities 
inherent  in  the  rapid  growth  of  science;  and  "an  outgrowing,  a  freeing 
from  ties"  to  elements  of  medieval  thought  that  had  "proved  to  be 
bonds."  3  With  this  went  "the  noble  enthusiasm  of  youth,"  an  individu- 
alistic confidence  in  the  power  and  dignity  of  the  mind  of  man,  and,  es- 
pecially in  the  later  stages  of  the  Renaissance,  a  metamorphosis  of  en- 
thusiastic confidence  into  zeal  for  searching  inquiry  and  diligent  reasoning 
p  of  the  sort  that  made  the  seventeenth  century  in  England  (to  take  but 
one  national  example)  a  major  period  in  intellectual  history.  Francis  Bacon 
was  both  a  scientist,  trying  hard  to  "make  the  mind  of  man  by  help  of 
art  a  match  for  the  nature  of  things,"  4  by  systematizing  scientific  method 
and  analyzing  the  new  fields  that  philosophy  should  conquer,  and  also  an 
enthusiast  with  a  romantic  ideal.  His  times— the  times  of  the  settlement  of 
Jamestown  and  Plymouth— were,  he  thought,  the  third  major  period  of 
intellectual  greatness  and  would  "surpass . . .  the  Graecian  and  Roman 
learning."  His  optimism  was  based,  among  other  things,  on  "the  art  of 
printing  . .  .  the  openness  of  the  world  by  navigation  .  .  .  the  present  dis- 
position of  these  times  at  this  instant  to  peace; . . .  and  the  inseparable 
propriety  of  time,  which  is  ever  more  and  more  to  disclose  truth. . ."  5 
Bacon's  zeal,  if  not  his  ability,  and  his  excitement  about  intellectual  pioneer- 
ing were  shared  by  other  scholars  and  even  by  simpler  folk.  An  English- 
man in  the  last  decade  of  Elizabeth's  reign  did  not  need  to  be  a  philosopher 
lor  a  scientist  to  realize  how  brave  his  new  world  was.  There  were  books 
and  plays  and  poetry  to  tell  him;  there  were  his  own  memories  or  his 
father's  of  the  days  of  the  Armada  and  the  English  voyagers  who  fought 
the  Spaniards  on  sea  and  land  in  areas  only  recently  explored;  there  were 
tales  of  travel,  rumors  of  new  philosophies,  political  debates,  and,  in  the 
simplest  experiences  of  daily  living,  hints  that  the  old  order  was  changing 
and  that  a  new  one  must  be  sought.  It  seemed  to  be  a  world  made  for  the 
inquiring  and  adventurous,  and  even  those  who  were  unable  to  under- 
stand it  or  not  free  to  inquire  or  seek  new  horizons  must  often  have  envied 
and  admired  those  who  were.  The  schoolboy  who  found  his  tasks  dull 
must  still  have  drawn  a  little  excitement  from  books,  if  he  was  one  of  the 
many  who,  thanks  to  the  increase  of  popular  education,  were  the  first  in 
their  families  to  be  able  to  read.  Such  boys  may  have  known  only  the 
Bible  and  a  school  text  or  two,  a  few  exciting  tales  of  battles  and  voyagings 
or  an  occasional  old  romance  retold  in  simple  prose,  but  even  so  they 
were  likely  to  feel  that  their  new  talents  exalted  them  above  their  an- 

3  John  H.  Randall,  Jr.,  The  Making  of  the  Modern  Mind  (rev.  edition,  Houghton 
Mifflin  Company,  Boston,  1940),  p.  in. 

4  Quoted  in  James  Seth,  English  Philosophers  and  Schools  of  Philosophy  (London, 
1912),  p.  28. 

•r>  Francis  Bacon,  The  Advancement  of  Learning,  in  Works,  ed.  by  J.  Spedding, 
R.  L.  Ellis,  and  D.  D.  Heath   (Boston,  1861),  Vol.  6,  pp.  391-392. 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL  LITERATURE  7 

cestors,  and  that  the  modern  world  was  fuller  of  wonders  and  richer  in 
possibilities  than  the  old. 

In  varying  degrees  and  in  all  sorts  of  ways  Englishmen  of  all  classes- 
aristocrats,  scholars,  merchants,  veomen— could  share  in  the  seventeenth 
century's  excited  interest  about  the  world,  the  people  in  it,  and  the  ad- 
vances of  science  and  art  which  were  directly  traceable  to  the  intellectual 
ferment  of  the  Renaissance.  So  was  a  kind  of  romanticism,  stemming 
from  uan  infinite  yearning  after  the  stars,  far  sweeter  than  all  possible 
attainment,"  a  "Faust-spirit  in  man  thirsting  for  endless  knowledge  and 
power  rather  than  finite  beauty,"  a  "blind  and  ceaseless  struggle  after 
power  over  men  and  things,"  which  "touched  every  nation  in  the  Renais- 
sance, but . . .  took  root  and  flowered  in  England  most  of  all."  8 
\_The  Reformation  played  a  similar  part  in  setting  the  intellectual  tone 
of  the  period  of  colonial  settlement.  In  a  narrow  sense,  it  was  the  Protestant 
revolt  against  Catholicism  and  the  substitution  for  the  older  sanctions  of 
the  church  of  new  ones  based  on  confidence  in  the  individual's  right  and 
duty  to  study  and  interpret  the  Bible  for  himself,  by  the  light  of  his 
own  reason,  and  to  reject  any  authority  which  interfered  with  his  duty 
or  right.  More  broadly  considered  the  Reformation  was  a  phase  of  the  v 
general  Renaissance.  What  affected  many  men  were  not  its  strictly  ec- 
clesiastical or  theological  aspects  but  its  incentive  to  inquiry,  intellectual 
curiosity  and  adventurousness,  and  a  new  interest  in  man  as  man.  Seven- 
teenth-century Protestants  still  centered  the  universe  on  God  and  their 
dearest  hope  was  for  blessedness  in  the  next  world,  but  they  had  a  new 
confidence  in  the  individual  man's  reason  and  capacity  for  faith.  Salva- 
tion was  a  matter  between  God  and  man  without  the  mediation  of  a 
church  or  any  human  institution.  Naturally,  the  Reformation  stimulated 
learning,  especially  among  the  more  thorough-going  Protestants  repre- 
sented in  England  by  the  Puritan  group.  Middle-class  men  excited  by 
Puritan  ideas  read  and  studied  deeply  in  order  to  justify  their  Protestant 
position.  Thence  came  a  distinct  broadening  of  the  base  of  the  English 
reading  public.  In  the  first  flush  of  enthusiasm  over  what  seemed  to  them 
their  religious  emancipation,  men  of  all  ranks,  but  particularly  those  of 
the  middle  class,  found  new  satisfaction  in  books,  and  once  enticed  by 
the  printed  page  by  no  means  limited  their  literary  fare  to  the  Bible  or  its 
expositors. 

Under  Queen  Elizabeth  and  her  successors  middle-class  literature  grew 
and  flourished.  It  was  aimed  at  a  newly  important  audience  and  to  please 
that  audience  developed  critical  and  rhetorical  theories,  tastes  in  material, 
and  a  variety  of  special  techniques  many  of  which  were  to  be  important 
for  literary  history.  The  economic  and  social  rise  of  the  middle  class  has 
been  held  to  be  a  dominant  factor  in  making  both  the  Renaissance  and  j 
Reformation.    "The   Renaissance   represents    its    intellectual    aspect;    art,  I 

G  Randall,  Modern  Mind,  p.   129. 


8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

science,  and  letters  had  hitherto  been  ecclesiastical;  the  Renaissance  is  a 
secular,  and  sometimes  even  pagan  revolt  against  this  sacerdotal  monopoly. 
The  Reformation  is  its  religious  counterpart,  the  rebellion  of  the  middle- 
class  laity  against  the  domination  by  the  Church  over  the  relations  be- 
tween God  and  man."  7 

Most  of  the  first  European  settlers  of  the  thirteen  American  colonies 
were  middle-class  folk.  They  differed  in  their  motives  for  emigration 
from  Europe  but  most  of  them  shared  traits  at  least  partly  traceable  to 
the  Renaissance  and  Reformation  background  of  the  societies  from  which 
they  came.;  Some  men  went  to  Virginia  because  colonization  seemed  a 
means  of  putting  ideals  into  practice,  a  material  extension  of  boundaries 
parallel  to  the  spiritual  expansion  characteristic  of  the  Renaissance;  and 
in  New  England  the  pioneer  leaders  worked  toward  a  true  commonwealth 
of  God,  to  embody  concretely  the  Reformation  spirit. 

Of  course  not  all  the  colonists  were  readers  of  books  or  thoughtful 
men.  Many  were  illiterate.  Many  crossed  the  Atlantic  for  wholly  sordid 
motives  and  never  troubled  their  heads  about  humanistic  principles,  the 
Renaissance  ideal  of  virtu,  or  the  character  of  a  genuinely  Christian 
church.  But  so  far  as  they  thought  at  all  their  thinking  was  partly  de- 
termined by  the  central  ideas  of  their  time  and  of  the  immediate  past. 
The  early  colonial  writers  were  heirs  of  a  mature  and  rich  European 
tradition  and  influenced  by  the  artistic,  scientific,  and  theological  theories 
and  achievements  of  the  seventeenth  century.  The  reasons  which  the 
English  settlers  in  North  America  gave  for  becoming  colonists  make 
this  plain.  . 

The  reasons  were,  as  has  been  said,  of  several  kinds. ( Historians  are 
pretty  well  agreed  that  the  most  fundamental  single  cause  of  e^arly  seven- 
teenth-century colonization  in  North  America  was  economic^  There  is 
much  evidence  that  many  men  braved  the  North  Atlantic  voyage  and  the 
terrors  of  an  unknown  wilderness  because/England  seemed  to  them  over- 
crowded, a  poor  market  for  their  labor,  and  a  costly  place  to  live  in},  But 
not  all  the  colonists  were  driven  by  economic  forces,  and  those  who  were 
often  rationalized  their  motives  and  professed  higher  goals  than  profit. 
Had  emigration  been  thought  of  as  nothing  but  a  way  to  more  wealth,  it 
would  probably  not  have  attracted  so  many  men  of  different  financial  and 
social  positions,  and  some  of  the  zeal  which  the  colonists  showed  would 
have  been  lacking.  Actually,  colonial  adventuring  was  dignified  in  popular 
esteem  as  a  career  especially  suited  for  the  courageous  and  public-spirited. 
The  chance  to  explore  new  lands,  to  try  new  ways  of  life,  and  to  prove 
gallantry  in  the  face  of  untried  dangers,  had  obvious  appeals  for  men  who 
had  absorbed  something  of  the  expansive  and  inquiring  spirit  of  the  Ren- 
aissance. Propagandists  for  colonization  made  the  most  of  these  appeals, 
and  the  arguments  used  to  encourage  emigrants,  as  well  as  the  colonists1 

7  A.  F.  Pollard,  Factors  in  Modern  History   (London,  1907),  pp.  39-40. 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL  LITERATURE  9 

own  writings,  were  usually  colored  by  the  idea  that  to  try  one's  luck  in 
Virginia  or  Massachusetts  was  to  take  part  in  an  ideally  heroic  enterprise. 
The  arguments  were  effective  in  shaping  the  popular  attitude  toward 
colonial  ventures  and  helped  to  make  it  easy  for  voyagers  to  the  New 
World  to  dramatize  themselves  as  champions  of  a  lofty  cause.  Thence 
came  an  emotional  stimulus  and  a  kindling  enthusiasm  which  were  neces- 
sarv  for  the  success  of  the  settlements  and  essential  in  making  possible  their 
eventual  development  of  a  recognizably  independent  national  culture'. 

Of  course  there  were  some  English  folk  for  whom  material  motives 
were  enough.  For  the  "maydens"  of  London  the  commonest  bait  would 
do: 

For  every  groat  that  you  got  here,  you  shall  have 
three  time  double. 

For  there  are  Gold  and  Silver  Mines,  and  Treasures 
much  abounding. .  .8 

Other  ballads,  however,  pointed  out  the  higher  satisfactions  to  be  sought 
in  Virginia: 

Wee  hope  to  plant  a  nation, 
Where  none  before  hath  stood. 

To  glorifie  the  Lord  'tis  done, 
And  to  no  other  end.9 

Englishmen  eager  for  employment  and  land  were  attracted  by  the  no- 
tion that  in  Virginia  these  good  things  were  to  be  had  more  easily  than  at 
home,  but  their  resolution  to  emigrate  must  often  have  been  stiffened  bv 
their  having  learned  to  look  at  colonization  as  a  service  to  king,  country, 
and  God. 

Michael  Drayton  wrote  his  ode  "To  the  Virginian  Voyage"  for  those 
who  prided  themselves  on  being  good  Christians  and  good  patriots,  daring 
enough  to  prove  their  quality  in  action: 

You  brave  Heroique  Minds, 

Worthy  your  Countries  Name 

That  Honour  still  pursue, 

Goe,  and  subdue, 
Whilst  loyt'ring  Hinds 
Lurke  here  at  home  with  shame.10 

Out  of  the  colonies  would  come,  the  odist  hoped,  heroes  like  those  of 
Britain's  past  and  even  poets  worthy  of  the  laurel. 

John  Donne,  preaching  to  the  Virginia  Company  in  1622,  had  little  to 

8  An  American  Garland:  Being  A  Collection  of  Ballads  Relating  to  America,  1563- 
1759,  ed.  C.  H.  Firth  (Oxford,  191 5),  p.  36. 

9  American  Garland,  p.  13. 

10  The  Works  of  Michael  Drayton,  ed.  by  J.  William  Hebel,  K.  Tillotson,  and 
B.  H.  Newdigate  (Oxford,  1931-41),  Vol.  2,  p.  363. 


io  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

say  to  London  "maydens"  or  those  others  who  looked  overseas  only  in 
the  hope  of  a  better  living.  He  did,  to  be  sure,  think  that  it  might  be  use- 
ful if  the  colonies  served  as  a  dumping-ground  for  the  criminal  and  in- 
digent, and  told  his  London  audience  that ". . .  if  the  whole  country  were 
but ...  a  Bridewell,  to  force  idle  persons  to  work,  it  had  a  good  use."  But 
this  was  not  its  best  use,  nor  was  it  to  be  simply  a  haven  for  men  who 
wanted  "a  sudden  way  to  be  rich".  Donne  dreamed  of  spiritual  conquests 
in  Virginia,  of  serving  God  by  turning  the  natives  into  good  Christians 
and  good  subjects  of  James  I.  He  told  the  English  supporters  of  the  Vir- 
ginia Company,  "You  shall  have  made  this  island,  which  is  but  as  the 
suburbs  of  the  old  world,  a  bridge,  a  gallery  to  the  new;  to  join  all  to 
that  world  that  shall  never  grow  old,  the  kingdom  of  heaven . . .  and  add 
names  to  the  books  of  our  chronicles,  and  to  the  book  of  life."  lx  Here 
was  a  challenge  to  any  heir  of  the  Renaissance  and  Reformation,  and  what 
Donne  said  was  said  often  by  others— by  soldiers,  merchants,  and  gallant 
young  adventurers  who  craved  more  excitement  than  England  offered— so 
that  we  can  be  sure  that  for  many  colonists  a  desire  to  serve  God  was  a 
\rnajor  motive. 

In  New  England,  certainly,  most  of  the  pioneers  looked  upon  the 
wilderness  as  a  new  Canaan  set  apart  for  God's  saints.  They  may  not  have 
emphasized  the  missionary  purpose  as  strongly  as  Donne  did,  and  by  no 
means  all  of  them  were  as  loyal  to  the  King,  but  they  went  even  farther 
than  he  in  their  enthusiasm  for  building  a  Christian  commonwealth  in  the 
New  World.  The  other  colonies  were  set  up  by  men  who  did  not  fully 
share  the  New  Englanders'  zeal,  but  in  both  North  and  South  the  service 
of  Christianity  was  recognized  as  one  of  the  ends  of  colony  building. 

In  the  early  seventeenth  century  British  patriotism  and  religion  went 
hand  in  hand.  Spain  was  an  enemy,  and  her  excursions  in  the  Western 
Hemisphere  were  threats  to  English  power  in  the  New  World.  Spain  was 
Catholic;  England  was  Protestant.  Donne  said  of  Virginia:  ". . .  our  doc- 
trinal, not  national  enemies ...  are  papists,  they  are  sorry  we  have  this 
country;  and  surely,  twenty  lectures  in  matter  of  controversy,  do  not 
so  much  vex  them,  as  one  ship  that  goes,  and  strengthens  that  planta- 
tion." 12  Even  if  the  Spaniards  were  disregarded,  flourishing  colonies 
would  obviously  be  valuable  to  England,  and  the  more  its  church  domi- 
nated new  areas  and  won  converts,  the  more  powerful  it  would  be.  A 
serious-minded  colonist  could  easily  convince  himself  that  to  seek  his 
fortune  in  North  America  was  to  serve  both  King  and  God. 

Because  many  settlers  were  thus  convinced  they  saw  themselves  as  more 
than  mere  money-makers  or  refugees  from  economic  distress  in  Europe. 

11  John  Donne,  "A  Sermon ...  Preached  to  the  Honourable  Company  of  the 
Virginian  Plantation,  November  30th,  1622,"  in  The  Works  of  John  Donne,  ed.  H. 
Alford  (London,  1839),  Vol.  6,  pp.  229,  232,  241. 

12  Works,  ed.  Alford,  Vol.  6,  pp.  232-233. 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL  LITERATURE  n 

Their  visions  underwent  changes  in  the  New  World,  and  some  of  them 
were  realized  in  achievements  no  pioneer  would  have  foreseen.  It  took  a 
long  time  for  the  colonies  to  establish  anything  like  a  real  community 
of  feeling,  and  a  sense  of  their  separateness  from  Europe  and  their  kin- 
ship with  each  other  came  more  slowly  still.  That  it  came  at  all  was  partly 
because  the  first  settlers  brought  with  them  not  only  material  ambitions 
but  ideas  about  other  values.  They  were  champions  of  king  and  country, 
they  were  warriors  for  Christ,  and  they  were  men  of  virtu— men,  that  is, 
who  sought  that  Renaissance  "combination  of  a  well-rounded  activity 
with  the  promise  of  immortal  fame  which  is  in  part  heroic  and  in  part 
polite."  13 

The  poet  Chapman  called  voyagers  and  colonizers 

you  patrician  spirits  that  refine 
Your  flesh  to  fire,  and  issue  like  a  flame 
On  brave   endeavours,  knowing  that  in  them 
The   tract   of   heaven   in   morn-like   glory   opens.14 

More  than  one  colonist  must  have  made  his  "brave  endeavours"  less  ardu- 
ous by  his  belief  that  he  was  proving  his  virtu  and  his  right  to  the  heaven 
of  fame.  That  spirit  did  not  die,  although  its  expression  altered.  Much  of 
colonial  literature  is  a  record  of  its  persistence  and  of  the  ways  in  which 
it  influenced  generations  of  New  World  dwellers.  To  understand  the 
colonists  and  what  they  wrote,  it  is  necessary  to  remember  the  ideas  and 
ideals  which  gave  them  their  enthusiasm  for  the  New  World,  their  faith 
in  it,  and  their  dreams  for  its  future.  Some  of  those  dreams  were  so  vivid 
that  they  became  the  actual  blueprints  for  the  building  of  a  nation. 
J_The  ideas,  ideals,  and  dreams,  took  different  shapes  in  the  different 
colonies,  because  the  colonies  were  founded  in  different  ways,  met  dif- 
ferent conditions,  and  quickly  took  up  different  interests  and  ways  of  life. 
For  the  purposes  of  literary  history  it  is  unnecessary  to  probe  the  details, 
but  some  understanding  of  the  broad  distinctions  among  the  methods  of 
settlement  and  development  of  the  various  English  outposts  on  the  Atlantic 
seaboard  is  needed  to  explain  the  nature  and  diversity  of  colonial  litera- 
ture. To  judge  a  piece  of  writing  from  seventeenth-century  Virginia  by 
the  standards  of  the  Massachusetts  Puritans  would  often  be  absurd.  Not 
to  recognize  that  New  York,  Pennsylvania,  Maryland,  Georgia,  and  the 
Carolinas  followed  dissimilar  lines  of  growth  is  to  lose  the  clue  to  their 
surprising  variations  in  some  intellectual  and  cultural  aspects.  Sometimes 
the  influence  of  the  conditions  of  settlement  in  this  or  that  colony  is 
obvious;  sometimes  it  is  more  occult.  But  in  every  case  what  the  colonists 
wrote  was  partly  shaped  by  what  they  were,  by  the  goals  they  set  for 

13  Howard  M.  Jones,  "The  Colonial  Impulse,"  Froc.  Amer.  Phil.  Soc,  Vol.  90,  no.  2 
(1946),  p.  134. 

14  George  Chapman,  De  Guiana,  carmen  Epicum,  quoted  in  Jones,  above,  p.  155. 


12  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

themselves,  by  the  circumstances  with  which  they  had  to  contend,  and 
bv  the  nature  of  the  audiences  they  addressed. 

Virginia  was  the  first  of  the  American  colonies  to  be  established,  and 
by  the  time  of  the  Revolution  it  had  bred  a  distinguished  group  of  states- 
men and  had  fixed  in  the  American  consciousness  a  picturesque  legend 
and  a  solid  and  fruitful  intellectual  tradition.  Historians  have  dispelled  the 
illusion  that  it  was  settled  primarily  bv  "gentlemen,"  and  have  shown  that 
the  hey-day  of  its  great  estates  and  eminent  families  with  their  emphasis 
on  gracious  living  in  aristocratic  forms  came  long  after  the  first  settlers 
got  a  precarious  foothold  at  Jamestown  in  1607.  Out  of  their  struggle  for 
survival  came  eventually  a  colony  founded  on  farming,  with  tobacco  as 
the  chief  crop.  The  pattern  of  life  of  English  country  gentlemen  was  re- 
produced as  far  as  possible  and  a  local  aristocracy  grew  up  where  the 
soil  was  fertile  and  the  landholdings  large.  But  the  original  settlers  came 
for  the  most  part  "from  the  middle  class  and  the  better  sort  of  English 
farmers"  and  although  "a  handful  of  families  . . .  had  noble  or  'genteel' 
connections,"  most  of  "the  First  Families  of  Virginia  became  first  families 
in  Virginia."  15 

The  facts  about  pre-Revolutionary  Virginia  which  are  most  important 
for  literary  history  are  that  it  was  the  most  English  of  the  colonies,  that 
its  population  was  scattered  in  farms  and  not  concentrated  in  villages,  and 
that  although  Virginians  established  the  "earliest  representative  body"  for 
government  in  the  thirteen  colonies  and  acquired  very  early  their  charac- 
teristic regional  loyalty,  it  was  only  comparatively  late  that  they  faced 
the  possibility  of  any  real  separation  from  Great  Britain.  The  predomi- 
nantly middle-class  origin  of  the  colonists— the  few  English  wastrels  or 
worse  who  made  their  way  to  Virginia  were  not  literate  enough  to  affect 
the  course  of  Virginian  writing— is  also  important  to  remember,  since  it 
set  a  definite  if  limited  standard  of  appreciation  for  the  colonial  audience. 

The  close  ties  between  the  colony  and  the  mother  country  had  an  ob- 
vious effect  upon  literature  in  Virginia.  The  London  book  market  was 
crowded  with  books— why  should  a  colonist  who  had  leisure  and  money 
enough  to  buy  them  care  about  colonial  writing?  And  if  his  most  accessible 
audience  did  not  care,  why  should  a  colonist  try  to  writer  Quite  naturally 
those  Virginians  who  did,  rarely  ventured  into  belles  lettres.  Middle-class 
Englishmen,  busy  with  an  arduous  task  of  colonization,  might  enjoy 
plays,  poems,  and  novels,  but  they  were  not  likely  to  take  time  to  write 
their  own.  English  ones  were  not  hard  to  get,  and  if  a  practical-minded 
colonist  had  to  choose  between  reading  and  clearing  or  planting  new  soil 
in  order  to  turn  his  Virginia  estate  into  a  fair  likeness  of  an  English  one, 
he  was  apt  to  renounce  or  postpone  any  literary  ambitions  he  might  have. 
Even  when  colonial  life  became  easier  and  many  men  prospered,  there 

15  Samuel  E.  Morison  and  Henry  S.  Commagcr,  The  Growth  of  the  American 
Republic   (Oxford  University  Press,  1942),  Vol.  1,  p.  43. 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL  LITERATURE  13 

was  still  little  demand  for  Virginian  books.  There  were  enough  English 
authors  to  fill  a  gentleman's  library.  Some  of  the  richer  colonists  sent  their 
sons  abroad  to  be  educated  or  at  least  for  a  few7  years'  study,  and  more 
and  more  cultivated  Virginians  learned  to  follow  English  fashions  in 
reading,  never  bothering  their  heads  about  the  possibilities  for  a  colonial 
literature  or  a  specifically  Virginian  literary  standard. 

The  absence  of  towns  and  villages  was  another  stumbling-block.  A  com- 
munity centered  about  a  shop,  a  church,  and  a  tavern  might  easily  support 
a  school  or  a  library,  private  or  public,  from  which  books  could  easily  be 
circulated  to  a  considerable  group.  A  minister,  schoolmaster,  or  prosperous 
tradesman  in  a  village  had  a  chance  to  make  his  education  and  literary 
tastes  count  among  his  neighbors.  For  them  there  was  an  incentive  to 
reading  or  even  to  writing  in  their  acquaintance  with  him  and  with  his 
books.  The  more  closely-knit  a  community  was,  the  more  easy  it  was  for 
the  writer  to  reach  an  audience.  But  in  Virginia  there  were  for  many 
years  no  towns,  no  coherent  and  compact  centers  of  settlement.  There 
were  few  schools  and  for  many  years  no  regular  system  of  public  educa- 
tion. There  was  no  local  printer  until  1682,  and  he  was  promptly  put  out 
of  business;  he  had  no  successor  until  1730.  Many  planters  had  good 
libraries  and  there  were  scholars,  writers,  and  lovers  of  good  literature 
among  the  colonists,  but  it  was  harder  to  pass  the  books  from  hand  to 
hand,  to  share  the  fruits  of  scholarship,  and  to  find  in  good  literary  dis- 
cussion afspur  to  write,  than  in  a  region  where  the  population  was  con- 
centrated in  towns.  Would-be  writers  had  neither  a  large  nor  a  well-pre- 
pared local  audience;  those  of  their  neighbors  who  were  most  likely  to 
read  what  they  wrote  were  those  whose  shelves  were  already  best  stocked 
with  imported  books;  and  they  knew  that,  lacking  Virginian  publishers, 
anything  they  tried  to  print  must  survive  in  competition  with  the  best 
sellers  of  seventeenth-century  London. 

Virginians  did  write,  none  the  less,  some  of  them  memorably.  They  did 
so  when  they  had  something  which  only  they  could  say,  or  something 
which  was  novel  or  striking  enough  to  win  a  hearing  in  England.  They 
wrote  also  when  their  interests  as  colonists  demanded  books  as  weapons 
with  which  to  fight  Virginia's  cause  against  its  critics  and  enemies.  They 
were  good  patriots  and  Protestants,  but  they  had  no  abstract  religious  or 
political  principle  and  no  philosophy  which  had  to  be  defended  against 
their  English  compatriots.  There  were  poets,  philosophers,  and  theologians 
in  the  mother  country  who  could  express  for  them  their  love  of  country 
and  the  philosophical  and  theological  ideas  they  accepted.  When  they 
wrote  they  showed  sound  practical  sense  in  sticking  to  narratives  of  their 
own  adventures,  pleas  for  more  colonists,  and  descriptions  of  Virginia 
which  were  also  answers  to  its  detractors. 

In  general  the  other  colonies  outside  of  New  England  present  much 
the  same  picture. "The  only  impulse  toward  a  native  literature  was  the 


i4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

need  for  accurate  history  and  description,  pleas  to  prospective  colonists, 
and  defenses  against  critics.  Writing  was  therefore  subject  to  the  same 
limitations  as  in  Virginia  and,  except  in  a  few  types,  neither  voluminous 
nor  impressive.  There  are  striking  exceptions,  but  if  one  looks  in  the  first 
century  of  settlement  for  distinguished  poetry  or  for  books  which  ex- 
press philosophical,  religious,  or  political  ideas  of  a  recognizably  "Ameri- 

[  can"  cast,  only  the  New  England  colonies  offer  much. 
r  The  reasons  for  this  lie  in  the  fact  that  the  colonization  of  New  England 
was  led  by  men  whose  dominant  motives  gave  them  very  early  a  special 
|sense  of  their  separateness  from  England.  They  were  Puritans— radical 
Protestant  reformers  who  either  believed  in  a  complete  divorce  from  the 
Church  of  England  or,  while  professing  loyalty  to  it,  insisted  on  a  "puri- 
fied" polity  in  the  colonies.  Supporting  the  colonial  ventures  in  New 
England  were  some  men  who  wanted  only  to  make  money;  there  were 
rogues  as  well  as  saints  in  colonial  New  England,  and  taverns  as  well  as 
meeting-houses.  Not  all  of  the  settlers  accepted  the  Puritan  regime  with 
enthusiasm,  but  the  leaders  did.  Their  driving  motive  was  to  set  up  a 
commonwealth  in  which  worship  and  government  followed  what  they 
held  to  be  God's  law.  They  set  up  a  church  controlled  by  the  votes  of  its 
members  and  a  civil  government  in  which  the  power  rested  in  the  "free- 
men" who  were  admitted  to  the  full  rights  of  citizenship.  But  by  limiting 
citizenship  to  those  who  were  church  members,  and  requiring  rigid  tests 
for  admission  to  the  churches,  they  kept  the  control  of  religious  and  civil 
affairs  in  the  hands  of  the  orthodox  leaders. 

Those  leaders  were  sure  that  the  new  Promised  Land  needed  books  of 
its  own.  The  special  glory  of  the  Puritans'  colonial  undertaking  must  be 
celebrated.  The  virtues  of  their  theological  system  and  way  of  life,  which 
they  thought  were  commanded  by  God,  deserved  to  be  made  known. 
Who  would  do  it  properly  if  not  the  colonists  themselves?  English  Puritans 
might  be  sympathetic,  but  many  of  them  were  Presbyterians  who  could 
not  endorse  New  England's  Congregational  "independency."  Anglicans 
were  unlikely  to  do  justice  to  dissenters,  and  English  royalists  had  no  love 
for  those  who  went  hand  in  hand  with  the  Roundheads  against  Charles  I 
in  the  English  Civil  War.  Although  many  English  books  were  imported 
and  circulated  in  New  England,  they  did  not  take  care  of  the  colonists' 
wants,  and  many  products  of  London  presses  were  not  welcomed  in 
Boston  and  New  Haven  because  their  content  and  even  their  style  were 
out  of  tune  with  Puritan  standards. 

r     The  New  Englanders  wrote  more  than  their  colonial  neighbors  because 

&  <  they  had  a  special  cause  to  plead  and  had  less  to  fear  from  English  com- 

(  petition.  Their  ties  across  the  Atlantic  were  less  close,  both  because  the 

Puritans  were  to  some  extent  heretics  and  rebels  and  because  their  economy 

\ developed  more  independently  of  trade  with  England.  They,  like  their 
neighbors,  wrote  to  serve  the  practical  ends  of  colonization,  but  they 


\ 


THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL  LITERATURE  15 

wanted  not  only  colonists  but  converts.  Good  writing  and  good  preaching 
were  means  of  winning  allies,  refuting  critics,  and  keeping  the  faithful 
gtrong  in  the  faith.  For  pious  New  England  scholars  not  to  write,  preach, 
and  print  would  have  seemed  treachery  to  God. 

Their  audience  was  large  enough  and  accessible  enough  to  encourage 
them.  The  climate,  the  nature  of  the  land,  and  their  realization  of  the  ad- 
vantages of  closely  settled  communities  for  education  and  religious  life, 
led  them  to  populate  New  England  with  villages  and  towns.  In  these,  each 
with  its  church  and  very  soon  its  school,  it  was  easy  for  books  to  circu- 
late, and  for  the  pious  colonists  to  read  their  own  prophets.  Native  workers 
escaped  some  of  the  handicaps  which  existed  in  Virginia  and  elsewhere. 

Puritanism,  moreover,  involved  a  special  zeal  for  books  and  learning. 
In  theory,  at  least,  the  Puritan  held  that  no  one  could  do  his  full  duty  for 
God  except  by  carrying  out  in  detail  all  God's  behests.  The  divine  will 
was  set  forth  in  the  Bible,  but  the  Bible  had  to  be  interpreted.  God's  works 
were  revealed  in  nature,  but  could  be  understood  only  after  study.  History 
was  the  record  of  God's  providence,  and  therefore  must  be  read  by  Chris- 
tians. Even  pagan  writers  of  the  past  had  uttered  moral  precepts  which  the 
faithful  might  profitably  ponder.  Good  servants  of  God  must  read  as  well 
as  listen  to  sermons;  to  read  and  write  demanded  training  and  so  the 
New  Englanders  began  almost  as  soon  as  they  arrived  to  provide  ade- 
quate schools.  They  wanted  good  ministers  and  in  1636  founded  a  college 
(Harvard)  to  train  them.  In  seventy  years  from  its  first  settlement  Boston 
became  a  center  for  the  publication,  sale,  and  [circulation  of  books,  un- 
equalled in  the  colonies  and  probably  surpassed  in  the  whole  English- 
speaking  world  only  by  London-a  fact  which  sufficiently  points  up  how 
•favorable  the  intellectual  climate  of  New  England  was  for  writers  and 
readers.  It  produced  far  more  than  its  proportionate  share  of  the  American 
literature  written  before  the  Revolution,  and  although  some  of  this  litera- 
ture is  indistinguishable  from  what  might  have  been  written  in  England, 
much  of  it  bears  the  seal  of  its  origin  in  its  emphasis  on  doctrines,  intel-v 
lectual  attitudes,  political  beliefs,  and  special  ardors,  which  characterized 
the  pioneer  Puritan  settlers  and  their  immediate  successors.    ^3 

New  England  did  not,  of  course,  have  a  monopoly  of  books.  Some 
planters  in  the  south  had  private  libraries  which  were  as  large  as  any 
Bostonian's  and  often  contained  a  catholic  range  of  titles.  Nor  were  the 
Puritan  colonists  the  only  ones  to  whom  religious  issues  were  important. 
Maryland  was  founded  as  a  private  grant  to  a  Catholic  proprietor,  who 
hoped  it  might  be  a  refuge  for  men  of  his  faith  and  for  other  persecuted 
groups.  Pennsylvania  was  settled  by  Quakers  and  for  years  controlled  by 
them,  but  it  also  sheltered  other  religious  groups  which  had  fared  badly 
in  Europe.  Some  Scotch-Irish  Presbyterians  came  even  before  1700,  and 
were  joined  by  many  others  before  1775,  not  because  they  agreed  doc- 
trinally  with  the  Friends  but  because  they  were  tempted  by  the  good  land 


1 6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  loathed  the  English  government  and  the  Anglican  church  which 
threatened  them  in  Ireland.  Many  German  Protestants,  most  of  them  mem- 
bers of  pietistic  sects,  fled  to  Pennsylvania  to  escape  Lutheran  persecution 
and  soon  played  a  major  part  in  the  cultural  life  of  the  colony. 

But  most  earlv  Marylanders  were  Protestants,  not  Catholics,  so  that 
the  colony  never  became  as  exclusively  devoted  as  New  England  was  to 
one  kind  of  religious  thought.  The  Catholic  emigrant  to  Maryland  had  less 
incentive  to  write  in  defense  of  his  faith  than  the  Massachusetts  Puritan 
since  he  was  part  of  a  church  with  plenty  of  European  ^defenders  and  had 
no  colonial  innovations  in  creed  or  polity  to  plead  for.  Moreover,  Mary- 
land was  settled  in  plantations  as  Virginia  was,  and  the  resulting  obstacles 
for  the  creation  of  a  native  literature  were  alike  in  both.  As  for  the 
Pennsylvania  Protestants,  most  of  them  were  rebels  against  the  established 
ecclesiastical  order  abroad,  just  as  the  Puritans  were,  and  the  Quakers  and 
Pietists  had  also  a  vision  of  a  colony  dedicated  to  God's  service.  But  books 
were  less  important  to  them  than  to  the  Puritans,  because  learning,  Biblical 
study,  and  theological  exposition  played  minor  roles  in  their  system.  They 
did  write,  and  supported  a  few  printers,  but  truth  lay  in  man's  heart,  in 
the  "inner  light"  kindled  by  God,  and  although  it  was  valuable  to  know 
the  Scriptures  and  useful  to  record  spiritual  experience,  no  man  needed 
books  to  be  a  good  Christian.  Literature  might  even  be  dangerous  since 
it  could  distract  men  from  their  first  duty— the  contemplation  of  God's 
truth  revealed  by  "inner  light." 

Generalizations  about  the  factors  which  most  influenced  the  course  of 
American  colonial  writing  are  useful  only  in  so  far  as  they  expose  the 
broad  outlines  of  a  pattern  in  literary  history.  To  emphasize  the  Renais- 
sance and  Reformation  attitudes  as  fundamental  in  early  American  life,  to 
stress  the  dissimilarities  in  motives  and  in  material  conditions  which  set 
most  of  the  colonies  apart  from  New  England,  and  to  outline  the  broad 
relation  between  the  geographical  and  economic  environment  of  the  colo- 
nists and  the  sort  of  books  they  wrote,  is  merely  to  prepare  a  background 
for  the  story.  The  story  itself  is  best  told  in  the  actual  pages  of  colonial 
literature. 

The  chapters  which  follow  deal  with  that  literature  and  are  concerned 
not  only  with  circumstances  which  shaped  it  and  its  intrinsic  literary 
merits  but  also  with  the  light  it  sheds  on  the  process  by  which  some  intel- 
lectual seeds,  ripened  in  Europe  on  strong  Renaissance  and  Reformation 
stocks,  took  root  and  flourished  in  the  New  World.  The  best  colonial 
writing  has  a  dual  appeal  for  modern  readers,  once  it  is  sympathetically 
read.  It  has  the  power  of  all  good  writing  whatever  its  period  or  prove- 
nance, and  it  is  rewarding  as  an  immediate  record  of  how  an  active  society 
transformed  some  elements  of  inherited  European  culture  into  a  truly 
"American"  way  of  thought. 


Chapter  2 


EARLY   TRAVELLERS  AND   OBSERVERS 


Sometime  in  1600  a  young  Englishman  named  John  Smith  (1 579-1 631) 
left  his  native  village  of  Willoughby,  and  "retired  himselfe  into  a  little 
wooddie  pasture,  a  good  way  from  any  towne."  He  had  just  come  back 
from  the  Continent,  where  he  had  served  as  a  professional  soldier.  His  tales 
of  his  campaigns  no  doubt  made  him  an  object  of  wonder  to  his  Lincoln- 
shire neighbors  who  remembered  his  father  as  a  tenant  farmer  on  Lord 
Willoughbv's  estate.  But  triumphs  of  storytelling  in  a  village  public  house 
were  too  tame  for  John  Smith,  and  "glutted  with  too  much  company,"  he 
sought  solitude  in  "a  Pavillion  of  boughes,"  "by  a  faire  brook,"  "invironed 
with  many  hundred  Acres  of . . .  Woods."  Just  as  he  had  rebelled  as  a  boy 
against  the  humdrum  life  of  a  merchant's  apprentice  and  had  run  away  to 
France,  so  now  he  promptly  left  his  village  friends  for  the  companionship 
of  his  books  and  his  chivalric  dreams.  "His  studie  was  Machiavills  Art  of 
warre,  and  Marcus  Aurel'ms:  his  exercise  a  good  horse,  with  his  lance  and 
Ring;  his  food  was  thought  to  be  more  of  venison  than  any  thing  else." 
Poachers  on  deer  preserves  were  common  enough,  but  a  poacher  who  was 
also  a  hermit,  an  equestrian,  and  a  reader  of  Machiavelli  was  an  un- 
usual phenomenon.1 

The  sojourn  in  the  "wooddie  pasture"  was  an  augury  of  the  future. 
Rough  shelters  of  boughs  were  to  be  staples  of  life  in  Virginia.  Smith's 
prowess  in  war  was  to  bring  him  an  extraordinary  reputation.  As  for 
Alarcus  Aurelius,  although  Smith  was  never  a  philosopher,  he  did  become 
a  writer  and  never  lost  his  reverence  for  books.  The  truly  noble,  as  the 
Elizabethans  saw  it,  coupled  prowess  in  arms  with  taste  for  literature,  and 
Smith  was  determined  to  prove  his  true  nobility. 

He  soon  set  off  for  Europe  once  more.  His  wanderings  took  him 
into  strange  lands,  and  if  his  account  is  to  be  believed,  into  a  series  of  ad- 
ventures worthy  of  anv  paladin  of  romance.  He  came  home  again,  prob- 

1  True  Travels,  ed.  Edward  Arber  and  A.  G.  Bradley  (1910),  Vol.  2,  p.  823.  All 
references  to  Smith's  writings  are  to  this  edition. 

17 


1 8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

ably  in  1604,  as  "Captain"  John  Smith,  dignified  by  a  patent  of  nobilitv 
granted  him  by  a  foreign  prince.  His  account  of  his  exploits  was  questioned 
but,  after  years  of  controversy  as  to  whether  the  "father  of  American  lit- 
erature" was  also  a  colossal  liar,  it  seems  pretty  clear  that  although  he  now 
and  then  stretched  fact  beyond  the  breaking  point  for  the  sake  of  a  "tall 
story"— a  process  later  to  be  labelled  as  characteristically  American— he 
actually  did  quite  enough  to  entitle  him  to  lasting  renown. 

His  career  in  Europe  and  Asia  was  over  by  the  time  he  was  in  the 
middle  twenties.  England  in  the  first  decade  of  the  seventeenth  century 
was  too  peaceful  for  his  taste,  and  he  was  naturally  excited  when  he  heard 
that  a  company  was  being  formed  to  colonize  Virginia.  He  was  sure  that 
"The  Warres  in  Europe,  Asia,  and  AffriccT  had  taught  him  "how  to  subdue 
the  wilde  Salvages  in  Virginia  and  New-England"; 2  he  was  tempted  by  the 
notion  that  he  could  win  both  wealth  and  glory  there.  He  had  a  little 
money,  and  invested  some  of  it,  as  well  as  much  energy,  in  promoting  the 
Virginia  Company.  In  December,  1606,  he  sailed  with  the  expedition  which 
eventually  founded  Jamestown,  and  was  one  of  the  seven  members  of  the 
Council  chosen  to  govern  the  colony.  Whenever  there  were  risks  to  be 
taken,  exploring  to  be  done,  or  Indian  negotiations  to  carry  out,  he  was 
to  the  fore.  He  was  elected  president  of  the  Council  in  1608. 

Late  in  1609  he  returned  to  England.  He  made  one  voyage  to  New 
England  in  16 14  and  attempted  a  second,  only  to  be  captured  by  the 
French.  After  the  Plymouth  colony  was  established,  he  hoped  he  might 
serve  his  country  there,  but  the  Puritan  settlers  did  not  want  him.  He  had 
to  live  out  his  life  in  England,  but  he  never  slackened  his  crusading  zeal 
on  behalf  of  the  American  settlements. 

That  zeal  made  him  an  author.  Through  all  the  mad  adventures  of  his 
youth  he  wrote  nothing  for  publication,  but  at  the  very  beginning  of  his 
Virginian  experience  he  broke  into  print  with  A  True  Relation  of  Snch 
Occurrences  and  Accidents  of  Note  as  Hath  Hapned  in  Virginia,  (London, 
1608).  It  was  only  a  letter  to  a  "worshipfull  friend,"  but  it  proved  salable 
and  taught  Smith  that  he  could  make  his  pen  useful  to  the  colony.  He 
followed  it  with  A  Map  of  Virginia,  a  description  of  the  country;  a  similar 
book  on  New  England;  another  called  New  England's  Trials;  a  large  work, 
partly  original  and  partly  a  compilation,  The  Generall  Historic  of  Vir- 
ginia; two  manuals  of  instruction  for  seamen  and  colonizers;  and,  finally, 
a  narrative  of  his  tempestuous  life.  All  except  the  last  are  "American"  in 
that  they  originated  in  Smith's  passionate  interest  in  the  New  World,  and 
even  the  autobiographical  True  Travels  reflects  his  pride  in  his  colonial 
exploits.  The  books  are  full  of  the  spirit  which  made  colonization  possible 
and  survived  even  after  the  colonies  were  merged  in  an  independent  na- 
tion. Some  passages  in  Smith  would  not  be  out  of  place  in  the  writings  of 
any  one  of  a  dozen  later  Americans.  Cooper's  heroes  are  often  fictional 

a  True  Travels,  Vol.  2,  p.  925. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  19 

representatives  of  the  kind  of  manhood  Smith  praised.  Parkman's  en- 
thusiasm for  the  "forest"  and  for  the  robust  heroism  of  the  frontier  is  like 
Smith's  delight  in  wilderness  living  and  his  pride  in  his  own  prowess  and 
that  of  his  followers.  The  traditional  American  admiration  for  the  fron- 
tiersman, who  wrested  a  living  from  a  stubbornly  dangerous  environment, 
is  foreshadowed  in  page  after  page  of  Smith.  So  is  an  equally  characteristic 
prejudice  in  favor  of  the  man  of  action,  insubordinate  or  even  lawless  in 
his  self-confident  intolerance  of  control  by  anyone  except  his  immediate 
comrades  in  enterprise.  And,  finally,  Smith  fell  in  love  with  the  New 
World  and  was  the  first  writer  to  give  anything  like  adequate  expression 
to  the  sense  of  local  loyalty  which  was  to  do  much  to  make  American 
patriots  out  of  transplanted  Europeans.  Of  Virginia  he  said,  "Heaven  and 
earth  never  agreed  better  to  frame  a  place  for  man's  habitation."  3 

He  was  sure,  like  many  of  his  American  successors,  that  pioneering  was 
a  noble  career  for  the  brave: 

Who  can  desire  more  content,  that  hath  small  meanes;  or  but  only  his  merit 
to  advance  his  fortune,  then  to  tread,  and  plant  that  ground  hee  hath  purchased 
by  the  hazard  of  his  life?  If  he  have  but  the  taste  of  virtue  and  magnamimitie, 
what . . .  can  bee  more  pleasant,  then  planting  and  building  a  foundation  for 
his  Posteritie,  gotte  from  the  rude  earth,  by  Gods  blessing  and  his  owne 
industrie,  without  prejudice  to  any?  If  hee  have  any  . . .  zeale  in  Religion,  what 
can  hee  doe  . . .  more  agreeable  to  God,  then  to  seeke  to  convert  those  poore 
Salvages  to  know  Christ?  . . .  What  so  truely  sutes  with  honour  and  honestie, 
as  the  discovering  things  unknowne?  erecting  Townes,  peopling  Countries, 
informing  the  ignorant,  reforming  things  unjust . . .  :  so  farre  ...  as  to  cause 
Posteritie  to  remember  . . .  and  remembring  . . .  honour  that  remembrance  with 
praise?  4 

Smith  ridiculed  the  authorities  of  the  Virginia  Company  who  sat  safely 
at  home  and  dared  to  send  him  orders,  and  some  of  his  liveliest  prose  con- 
temptuously contrasts  their  ignorance  with  his  own  dearly-bought  knowl- 
edge. He  wrote  from  Virginia  to  the  Company:  "Though  I  be  no  scholer, 
I  am  past  a  schoole-boy;  and  I  desire  but  to  know  what  either  you,  and 
these  here,  doe  know  but  that  I  have  learned  to  tell  you  by  the  continuall 
hazard  of  my  life."  5 

He  knew  that  his  writing  would  not  satisfy  sophisticated  critics  and 
apologizes  for  his  "souldiers  plainnesse."  His  major  concern  was  with 
"Doing"  not  "Saying"  and  at  times  carelessness  and  haste  made  his  style 
both  confused  and  dull.  He  confesses  that  his  Generall  Historic  "ought  to 
have  beene  clad  in  better  robes  then  my  rude  military  hand  can  cut  in 
Paper  Ornaments."  6  Some  of  his  prose  was,  however,  vigorously  realistic 

3  True  Travels,  Vol.  1,  p.  48. 

4  True  Travels,  Vol.  1,  pp.  208-209. 

5  True  Travels,  Vol.  2,  p.  442. 

6  True  Travels,  Vol.  1,  pp.  235,  275. 


20  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  diction,  admirably  lucid,  and  strong  in  rhythm— the  rhythm  of  an 
earnest  and  plain-spoken  man  arguing  a  cause.  There  are  even  some  care- 
fully rhetorical  passages  which  display  him  as  the  Elizabethan  would-be 
gentleman,  who  wanted  to  prove  his  skill  with  words  as  well  as  in  arms.7 
His  work  is  one  of  the  many  proofs  that  the  American  colonies  were 
founded  not  by  literary  barbarians  but  by  the  heirs  of  a  rich  culture,  who 
respected  books  and  liked  good  prose. 

In  his  later  life  Smith  was  sure  that  if  he  had  his  life  to  live  over  again 
he  would  devote  it  once  more  to  the  noble  cause  of  "Plantations."  "I  call 
them  my  children;  for  they  have  beene  my  Wife,  my  Hawks,  Hounds, 
my  Cards,  my  Dice,  and  in  totall,  my  best  content,  as  indifferent  to  my 
heart  as  my  left  hand  to  my  right."  8 

Smith's  claim  to  paternity  is  exaggerated,  of  course,  but  in  literary  his- 
tory he  has  some  right  to  be  called  a  "father."  He  staked  out  paths  which 
his  contemporaries  and  successors  in  authorship  followed.  If  Virginian 
writing  for  the  first  century  had  to  be  represented  by  one  man,  Smith 
would  be  the  best  choice. 

Few  of  the  other  early  Virginian  writers  were  as  "American"  as  he, 
either  because  their  association  with  the  colonies  was  very  short  or  be- 
cause they  did  not  like  life  in  the  New  World.  John  Pory  (1572-1635), 
for  example,  was  for  a  time  secretary  and  speaker  of  the  Council  at  James- 
town, but  he  was  never  contented  in  Virginia  and  never  really  identified 
himself  with  it.  In  one  of  his  letters,  however,  he  neatly  touches  a  point 
which  later  American  writers  were  to  make  much  of:  "Our  cowekeeper 
here  of  James  citty  on  Sundays  goes  accowtered  all  in  freshe  flaming  silke; 
and  a  wife  of  one  that  in  England  had  professed  the  black  arte,  not  of  a 
scholler,  but  of  a  collier  of  Croydon,  weares  her  rough  bever  hatt  with  a 
faire  perle  hatband,  and  a  silken  suite  thereto  correspondent."  9 

At  home  cowherds  and  colliers'  wives  did  not  wear  silk  and  pearl  hat- 
bands, but  in  Virginia,  after  earning  a  little  economic  freedom,  they  pro- 
ceeded to  ape  the  manners  of  those  whom  Smith  and  Pory  would  have 
called  their  "betters."  The  frontier  floated  odd  characters  to  the  surface, 
and  Pory  was  amused.  So  have  been  many  later  American  humorists,  who 
have  found  rich  material  in  the  incongruity  between  the  behavior  of  such 
characters  in  pioneer  conditions  and  their  conventionally  measured  social 
status. 

The  claim  of  William  Strachey  (fl.  1606-18)  to  a  place  in  American 
literary  history  is  stronger  than  Pory's,  since  he  wrote  formally  for  publica- 
tion and  found  his  major  incentive  in  his  colonial  experience.  He  seems  to 
have  been  a  graduate  of  Cambridge,  and  among  his  friends  were  John 

7  See,  for  example,  the  beginning  of  his  prefatory  address  to  the  "Adventurers1'  in 
his  Description  of  New  England,  in  True  Travels,  Vol.  1,  pp.  179-180. 

8  True  Travels,  Vol.  2,  p.  770. 

9  Letter,  September  30,  1619,  in  Narratives  of  Early  Virginia,  ed.  Lyon  G.  Tyler 
(1907),  p.  285. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  21 

Donne,  the  poet  and  preacher,  and  Thomas  Campion,  the  lyrist,  who 
called  him  his  "old  boon  companion"  and  overpraised  his  verses.  His  writ- 
ings show  that  he  knew  a  good  deal  about  books  as  well  as  about  politics 
and  diplomacy. 

On  June  2,  1609,  he  sailed  on  the  Sea  Adventure  for  Virginia,  but  she 
w  as  wrecked  on  the  Bermudas  and  it  was  not  until  late  spring  of  the  next 
year  that  Strachey  at  last  saw  Jamestown.  A  letter,  written  in  July  and 
containing  an  account  of  his  adventures,  was  printed  in  Samuel  Purchas's 
filgrimes  (London,  1625)  as  "A  True  Reportory  of  the  Wracke,  and  Re- 
demption of  Sir  Thomas  Gates'1 Strachey  went  home  to  England  in 

161 1,  but  kept  his  contact  with  Virginian  affairs  and  ''edited  the  first 
written  code  of  laws"  for  the  colony,  printed  in  1612.10 

His  account  of  the  great  storm  that  overtook  the  Sea  Adventure  has  be- 
come famous  because  it  may  have  given  to  Shakespeare  material  for  The 
Tempest.  It  deserves  to  be  remembered  in  its  own  right  because,  although 
it  is  "a  rhetorical  set  piece,1' :1  it  is  full  of  sharp  observation  and  the  swift 
movement  of  the  prose  fits  the  action. 

Strachey  writes  a  different  style  in  the  moral  reflections  in  Lowes  for 
Virginia: 

We  owe  our  highest  and  supreme  duty,  our  greatest,  and  all  our  allegeance  to 
him,  from  whom  all  power  and  authoritie  is  derived,  and  flowes  as  from  the 
first,  and  onely  fountaine,  and  being  especiall  souldiers  emprest  in  this  sacred 
cause,  we  must  alone  expect  our  successe  from  him,  who  is  onely  the  blesser 
of  all  good  attempts,  the  King  of  kings,  the  commaunder  of  commaunders, 
and  Lord  of  Hostes.12 

Like  Smith,  Strachey  felt  that  in  the  colonies  one  could  prove  oneself  a 
noble  servant  of  God  and  King,  and  like  Smith  he  loved  the  new  country. 
He  admitted  the  "unwholesome  and  sickly  ayre"  of  Jamestown,  but  he  still 
thought  Virginia  was  "one  of  the  goodliest  Countries  under  the  Sunne." 

Praise  of  the  new  settlements  was  the  stock  in  trade  of  a  host  of  writers 
of  travel  narratives  or  descriptions,  who  were  little  more  than  real  estate 
salesmen.  Their  panegyrics  on  Virginia  and  Maryland  were  intended  to 
attract  settlers  even  if  truth  suffered  in  the  process.  Many  such  writers 
had  never  set  foot  in  the  colonies,  and  very  little  of  what  they  wrote  be- 
longs to  American  literature,  since  they  were  not  moved  to  write  by  any 
genuine  personal  interest  in  the  New  World.  But  there  remains  a  fair 
stock  of  books  and  pamphlets  by  men  who  were  emotionally  excited  by 

"  Armistead  C.  Gordon,  Jr.,  "William  Strachey,"  in  DAB;  William  Strachey,  For 
the  Colony  in  Virginea  Britannia  (161 2),  reprinted  in  Tracts,  ed.  Peter  Force  (reprint 
edition,   1947),  Vol.  3,  no.  2. 

"Howard  M.  Jones,  Literature  of  Virginia  (1946),  p.  24. 

12  W.  Strachev,  For  the  Colony  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force,  Vol.  3,  no.  2,  pp.  9-10. 

is  William  Strachey,  A  True  Repertory  in  Samuel  Purchas,  Hakluytus  Fosthimms 
(1905-7),  Vol.  19,  pp.  58,  72. 


22  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  new  settlements  and  inspired  to  write  by  their  experience  in  the  colo- 
nies. 

Among  them  was  Colonel  Henry  Norwood  (1615-89)  whose  one 
attempt  at  formal  literary  composition  was  a  record  of  his  voyage  to 
Virginia  and  of  his  short  stay  there.  A  Cavalier  soldier,  he  joined  the  "very 
considerable  number  of  nobility,  clergy,  and  gentry"  who  decided  after 
the  downfall  of  Charles  I  to  "fly  from  their  native  country."  He  chose  to 
seek  his  fortune  in  Virginia  because  he  did  not  have  capital  enough  to 
set  himself  up  as  a  sugar  planter  in  the  West  Indies  and  because  he  was  a 
second  cousin  of  Sir  William  Berkeley,  then  governor  of  the  colony.  His 
choice  involved  him  in  extraordinary  "storms  and  fatigues,  perils  and 
necessities  ...  by  sea  and  land  for  almost . . .  four  months."  14 

He  wrote  the  tale  of  his  adventures  with  a  sharp  eye  for  the  effective 
scene,  and  salted  it  with  dryly  humorous  or  even  witty  comment.  He  was 
fascinated,  as  Pory  was,  by  the  incongruity  between  the  characters  and 
manners  of  the  New  World  and  those  of  the  Old.  When  an  Indian  king 
asked  him  for  his  camlet  coat  he  remarked:  "I  shook  hands  to  shew 
my  willingness  to  please  him . . .  because  he  was  the  first  king  I  could 
call  to  mind  that  had  ever  shew'd  any  inclinations  to  wear  my  old 
cloaths."  15 

Reverence  for  monarchy  was  one  of  his  chief  traits.  An  Indian  princess 
was  better  than  no  royalty  at  all,  although  of  course  a  savage  potentate 
might  be  gently  ridiculed  as  a  European  one  could  not.  This  is  pleasant 
enough,  and  understandable  in  a  Cavalier,  but  it  is  harder  to  swallow 
Norwood's  complete  contempt  for  his  social  inferiors  except  in  those  rare 
cases  in  which  some  one  of  them— like  Tom  Reasin,  a  sailor  aboard  his 
ship— was  so  useful  in  time  of  need  that  indifference  to  him  was  impossible. 
When  food  was  short  Norwood  calmly  encouraged  his  followers  to  eat 
their  dead  comrades  but  whenever  there  was  material  for  more  con- 
ventional feasting  he  usually  found  ways  to  take  the  lion's  share.  Why 
not?  He  was  a  gentleman— even  the  Indians  who  came  to  save  his  little 
troop  of  marooned  voyagers  recognized  that.  They  were  impressed  by 
his  "camlet  coat  glittering  with  galoon  lace  of  gold  and  silver."  So, 
no  doubt,  was  Norwood  himself.  He  knew  that  it  is  "generally  true, 
that  where  knowledge  informs  not,  the  habit  qualifies"  a  man  as  one  of 
rank.10 

Such  class  consciousness  was  common  to  most  of  the  English  pioneers 
in  the  colonies,  but  they  usually  tempered  it  by  their  realization  that  they 
were  sharing  in  an  enterprise  which  could  not  live  by  gentlemen  alone,  no 
matter  how  much  "galoon  lace"  they  sported.  For  Norwood  the  colony 

14  Henry  Norwood,  A   Voyage  to   Virginia,  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force,  Vol.  3,  no.  10, 
pp.  3-4,  48.  All  references  arc  to  this  edition. 
is  Voyage,  p.  44. 
16  Voyage,  p.  29. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  23 

was  only  "English  ground,"  17  and  he  did  not  realize  that  there  some  of 
the  common  folk  were  transforming  themselves  into  landed  proprietors 
and  the  social  set-up  was  coming  to  depend  in  part  on  other  values  than 
those  recognized  by  Cavaliers  at  home. 

In  one  passage,  however,  he  hints  at  a  feeling  which  was  to  prove  im- 
portant in  the  building  of  a  new  nation  on  this  continent.  He  wrote  of  a 
poor  Indian's  cottage:  "It  had  a  loveliness  and  symmetry  in  the  air  of  it, 
so  pleasing  to  the  eye,  and  refreshing  to  the  mind,  that  neither  the  splendor 
of  the  Escurial,  nor  the  glorious  appearance  of  Versailles  were  able  to  stand 
in  competition  with  it."  18  Faint  as  the  romanticism  of  this  is,  compared 
to  the  ardors  of  some  later  eulogies  of  life  in  the  wilderness,  it  points  a 
way  which  many  Americans  after  Norwood  were  to  follow. 

John  Hammond  (fl.  1635-56)  was  a  contemporary  of  Norwood's  and 
apparently  also  a  military  man.  Unlike  Norwood,  who  was  essentially  an 
English  tourist,  he  was  a  devoted  colonist  who  preferred  the  New  World 
to  England.  His  Leah  and  Rachel:  or,  the  Two  Fruitfull  Sisters  Virginia 
and  Mary -land  (London,  1656),  makes  that  clear.19 
"""*■  He  tells  us  that  he  spent  nineteen  years  in  Virginia  and  two  in  Mary- 
land, and  left  only  when  he  was  sentenced  to  death  by  the  Puritans  who 
had  taken  over  the  government  of  the  latter  colony.  His  book  was  written 
in  England,  to  defend  himself  and  to  plead  for  better  understanding  of  the 
two  colonies  he  loved.  It  has  few  literary  virtues,  but  it  reflects  the  char- 
acter of  a  reasonable  and  intelligent  man  whose  chief  passion  was  "the 
Two  Fruitfull  Sisters"  of  his  title.  He  did  not  want,  like  certain  "infamous 
lyars"  to  "extoll  the  places,  as  if  they  were  rather  Paradices  than  earthly 
habitations,"  20  but  he  was  not  afraid  to  confess  his  love  for  them.  "It  is 
not  long  since  I  came  from  thence  (God  knows  sore  against  my  will)  . . . 
nor  do  I  intend  (by  Gods  assistance)  to  be  long  out  of  it  again."  The  real 
climax  of  the  book  is:  "I  know  no  country  (although  I  have  travelled 
many)  that  I  more  affect,  more  esteem  ...  in  few  words,  it  is  that  Country 
in  which  I  desire  to  spend  the  remnant  of  my  dayes,  in  which  I  covet  to 
make  my  grave."  21  Here  is  the  "American  dream"  of  an  Englishman  who 
was  at  heart  a  Virginian  or  Marylander. 

Leah  and  Rachel  was  not,  of  course,  the  first  Maryland  book  of  travel 
and  description.  There  was,  for  example,  A  Brief e  Relation  of  the  Voyage 
unto  Maryland,  written  probably  in  1634  by  the  Jesuit  priest,  Andrew 
White  (1579-1656),  a  faithful  servant  of  the  colony.22  It  has  more  dignity 
and  literary  quality  than  most  of  the  other  treatments  of  its  theme.  They 


17  Voyage,  p.  47. 
8  Voyage,  p.  33. 


19  In  Tracts,  ed.  Force,  Vol.  3,  no.  14.  All  references  are  to  this  edition. 

20  Leah  and  Rachel,  p.  7. 

21  Leah  and  Rachel,  pp.  7,  26-27. 

22  Reprinted  in  Narratives  of  Early  Maryland,  ed.  Clayton  C.  Hall  (1910),  pp.  29"45- 
Cf.  Intro.,  pp.  27-28. 


24  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

can  for  the  most  part  be  fairly  judged  by  what  has  been  said  of  similar 
writings  im  Virginia.  Founded  in  1634,  Maryland  was  until  1688  a  private 
domain  of  the  Calvert  family  by  royal  grant.  Different  as  it  was  in  this 
respect  from  Virginia,  its  actual  settlement  followed  lines  essentially  the 
same,  and  the  two  colonies  grew  like  the  sisters  Hammond  pictured  them 
as.  Naturally  their  literary  and  educational  life  also  ran  parallel. 

One  seventeenth-century  Maryland  book  is  an  amusing  oddity,  individ- 
ual in  flavor  and  American  in  that  its  author,  George  Alsop  (b.  1638),  was 
incited  to  write  by  his  colonial  experience.  He  came  to  Maryland  as  an 
indentured  servant  in  1658  and  found  life  easier  than  he  had  expected  and 
full  of  opportunities  for  a  shrewd  and  humorous  observer.  He  was  a  good 
royalist  and  after  the  restoration  of  Charles  II  he  made  his  way  back  to 
England.  There  he  published  in  1666  A  Character  of  the  Province  of 
Mary -Land:  Wherein  is  Described . . .  The  Scituation,  and  plenty  of  the 
Province  . . .  The  Laws,  Customs,  and  natural  Demeanor  of  the  Inhabitants 
. . .  The  worst  and  best  Usage  of  a  Mary -Land  Servant . . .  The  Traffique, 
and  vendable  Commodities  of  the  Countrey.  Also  A  small  Treatise  on  the 
wilde  and  naked  Indians . . .  their  Customs,  Manners,  Absurdities,  &  Re- 
ligion.22 The  title  was  well  calculated  to  attract  the  curious,  and  its  use  of 
the  word  "Absurdities"  is  characteristic  of  Alsop. 

He  was  not  unlettered  and  his  book  is  well  sprinkled  with  literary  and 
historical  allusions.  Its  style  is  plainly  and  sometimes  painfully  under  the 
influence  of  contemporary  modes  in  prose,  but  its  vigor,  humor,  and  oc- 
casional satirical  zest  give  it  a  special  quality.  Alsop  outlines  soberly  enough 
the  difficulties  in  getting  and  keeping  employment  in  England,  and  writes 
of  the  cowards  who  dared  not  emigrate  because: 

There's  a  great  Sea  betwixt  them  and  Mary-Land,  and  in  that  Sea  there  are 
Fishes,  and  not  only  Fishes  but  great  Fishes,  and  then  should  a  Ship  meet  with 
such  an  inconsiderable  encounter  as  a  Whale,  one  blow  with  his  tayle,  and 
then  Lord  have  Mercy  upon  us:  Yet  meet  with  these  men  in  their  common 
Exchange,  which  is  one  story  high  in  the  bottom  of  the  Celler,  disputing  over 
a  Black-pot,  it  would  be  monstrously  dreadful  here  to  insert  the  particulars, 
one  swearing  that  he  was  the  first  that  scaled  the  Walls  of  Dundee,  when  the 
Bullets  flew  about  their  ears  as  thick  as  Hail-stones  usually  fall  from  the  Sky. 
,. . .  Others  of  this  Company  relating  their  several  dreadful  exploits,  and  when 
they  are  just  entring  into  the  particulars,  let  but  one  step  in  and  interrupt 
their  discourse,  by  telling  them  of  a  Sea  Voyage,  and  the  violency  of  storms, 
that  attends  it,  and  that  there  are  no  backdoors  to  run  out  at . . .  the  appre- 
hensive danger  of  this  is  so  powerful  and  penetrating  on  them,  that  a  damp 
sweat  immediately  involves  their  Microcosm,  so  that  Margery,  the  old  Matron 
of  the  Celler,  is  fain  to  run  for  a  half-peny-worth  of  Angelica  to  rub  their 
nostrils.24 

23  All  references  are  to  the  edition  of  Newton  D.  Mercness  (Cleveland,  1902). 

24  Character,  pp.  62-64. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  25 

In  another  place  the  Character  makes  fun  of  both  the  romanticizers  of 
the  Indians  and  the  idle  aristocrats  of  England.  The  Indians,  Alsop  says, 
did  not  have  a  "Monarchy"  but  an  "anarchy."  He  continues  in  a  nicely 
realistic  strain: 

All  that  I  ever  could  observe  in  them  as  to  this  matter  is,  that  he  that  is 
most  cruelly  Valorous,  is  accounted  the  most  Noble:  Here  is  verv  seldom 
any  creeping  from  a  Country  Farm,  into  a  Courtly  Gallantry,  by  a  sum  of 
money;  nor  feeing  the  Heralds  to  put  Daggers  and  Pistols  into  their  Amies, 
to  make  the  ignorant  believe  that  they  are  lineally  descended  from  the  house 
of  the  Wars  and  Conquests;  he  that  fights  best  carries  it  here.25 

In  general,  in  both  Virginia  and  Maryland,  the  development  of  the 
literature  of  travel  and  description  was  the  same.  First  came  accounts  of 
the  first  explorers  and  settlers,  concentrating  usually  either  on  their  ad- 
ventures or  on  flattering  descriptions  designed  to  attract  new  colonists. 
Later,  when  local  problems  arose,  there  were  disputes  among  factions  in 
the  colonies  or  controversies  between  them  and  the  mother  country,  and 
books  and  pamphlets  gave  more  space  to  polemics  or  to  projects  for  re- 
form, for  economic  improvement,  or,  sometimes,  for  spiritual  betterment. 
More  and  more,  the  tone  came  to  be  that  of  the  Virginian  or  iMarylander, 
conscious  of  himself  as  such  and  no  longer  thinkiiig  of  himself  as  first  and 
solely  an  Englishman.  A  Virginian  in  1701  labelled  his  book  as  "By  an 
American,"  26  which  probably  would  not  have  displeased  John  Hammond 
but  would  certainly  have  seemed  surprising  if  not  unintelligible  to  most 
earlier  writers  in  Virginia  or  Maryland. 

Much  the  same  pattern  is  traceable  in  the  other  colonies.  New  England, 
New  York,  New  Jersey,  and  Delaware,  Pennsylvania,  the  Carolinas,  and 
Georgia,  produced  many  works  of  travel  and  description  but  only  a  few- 
are  worth  enough  from  the  literary  point  of  view  or  differ  enough  from 
similar  books  in  Virginia  and  Maryland  to  demand  special  attention. 

New  York  was  settled  in  1609  by  the  Dutch  and  named  New  Nether- 
land.  It  was  not  taken  by  the  English  until  1664.  Its  earliest  literature  was 
in  Dutch  and  hardly  belongs  in  the  main  stream  of  our  literary  history, 
which  was  predominantly  English  in  both  language  and  inspiration.  The 
writers  of  New  Netherland  did  now  and  then  hint  at  a  dawning  con- 
sciousness that  life  there  had  special  charms  but  the  note  is  muffled  in  com- 
parison to  that  sounded  in  Virginia. 

The  Dutch  colony  never  developed  any  marked  sense  of  colonial 
separateness.  The  Cavaliers  who  found  asylum  in  Virginia  during  the 
years  of  the  Puritan  supremacy  in  England  thought  that  if  England's 
afflictions  continued  the  colony  might  be  made  a  fit  abiding  place  for 

25  Character,  p.  78. 

26  An  Essay  upon  the  Government  of  the  English  Plantations  on  the  Continent 
of  America ..  .By  an  America?!  (London,  1701),  reprinted  by  Louis  B.  Wright 
(San  Marino,  Calif.,  1945). 


26  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

royalists  and  Anglicans;  the  Catholics  of  Maryland  and  the  Quakers  and 
German  Pietists  in  Pennsylvania  had  similar  reasons  for  regarding  their 
new  territories  as  promised  lands;  the  Puritans,  in  whatever  colony  they 
lived,  rejoiced  in  the  New  World  because  it  gave  them  religious  oppor- 
tunities denied  them  at  home  except  during  the  brief  period  from  the 
close  of  the  Civil  War  until  the  restoration  of  Charles  II,  and  sometimes 
even  then,  if  they  differed  from  the  dominant  Protestant  groups  in  Eng- 
land. But  America  was  not  usually  for  the  Dutch  emigrants  a  necessary 
refuge.  When  they  wrote  they  usually  preached  their^Lutheran  beliefs, 
just  as  they  might  have  in  Holland,  or  described  the  colony  and  told  of 
their  doings  for  the  edification  and  amusement  of  their  European  coun- 
trymen. The  interest  of  their  books  lies  principally  in  their  first-hand 
reflection  of  the  life  of  a  colony  which  was  to  develop  into  a  uniquely 
important  American  area  and  to  be  given  romantic  immortality  by  Wash- 
ington Irving. 

Adriaen  Van  der  Donck  (1620-55)  may  serve  as  a  sufficient  example  of 
the  colonial  Dutch  writers.  His  Beschryvinge  van  Nienw  Nederlcmt 
(Amsterdam,  1655)  *s  on  tne  whole  highly  readable,  the  work  of  a  com- 
petent writer  and  a  sharp-eyed  observer  who  liked  America  and  expressed 
some  of  his  liking  in  his  book.  But  even  in  his  "Dialogue  Between  a 
Patriot  and  a  New-Netherlander  Upon  the  Advantages  which  the  Coun- 
try Presents  to  Settlers",  27  the  emphasis  is  on  the  colony's  usefulness  to 
the  mother  country  rather  than  on  its  virtues. 

Soon  after  New  Netherland  was  taken  by  the  British  and  became  New 
York,  Daniel  Denton  (ft.  1656-96),  an  Englishman  by  parentage  and  a 
Long  Islander  by  birth,  saw  his  chance  and  wrote  A  Brief  Description  of 
Neiv  York  (London,  1670),  "the  first  separate  work  in  English  relating  to 
the  province  of  New  York."  28  Denton  was  not  a  distinguished  stylist 
but  his  little  book  has  a  few  bits  of  nice  phrasing,  describing  the  smiling 
aspect  of  New  York  and  Long  Island,  and  is  made  charming  by  his  obvi- 
ous affection  for  the  country  of  his  birth.  Nature  was  prodigal  and  gave 
almost  all  that  man  could  want.  The  air  was  so  sweet  "that  it  may  be 
perceived  at  Sea"  before  mariners  "can  make  the  Land."  "If  there  be  any 
terrestrial  Canaan,  tis  surely  here"  where  the  colonists  live  in  houses  with 
"the  South-side  . . .  begirt  with  Hives  of  Bees"  and  "the  Land  floweth 
with  milk  and  honey."  29 

Denton's  climactic  paragraph  is  on  a  theme  suggested  in  others  of  our 
colonial  writers  but  stated  here  with  unusual  explicitness— a  theme  which 
in  the  broad  sense  is  "democratic": 

27  Adriaen  Van  der  Donck,  Description  of  the  New  Netherlands,  trans,  by 
Jeremiah  Johnson,  in  N.  Y.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  2nd  Series,  Vol.  1   (1841),  pp.  228-238. 

28  Reproduced  in  facsimile  with  a  bibliographical  note  by  Victor  H.  Paltsits  (1937). 
The  quotation  is  from  the  first  paragraph  of  the  note,  and  all  references  are  to  this 
edition. 

29  Brief  Description,  p.  19. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  27 

. . .  how  free  are  those  parts  of  the  world  from  that  pride  and  oppression, 
with  their  miserable  effects,  which  many,  nay  almost  all  parts  of  the  world 
are  troubled  with,  being  ignorant  of  that  pomp  and  bravery  which  aspiring 
Humours  are  servants  to,  and  striving  after  almost  everywhere:  where  a 
Waggon  or  Cart  gives  as  good  content  as  a  Coach;  and  a  piece  of  their  home- 
made Cloth,  better  then  the  finest  Lawns  or  richest  Silks:  and  though  their 
low-roofed  houses  may  seem  to  shut  their  doors  against  pride  and  luxury,  yet 
how  do  they  stand  wide  open  to  let  charity  in  and  out,  either  to  assist  each 
other,  or  relieve  a  stranger,  and  the  distance  of  place  from  other  Nations, 
doth  secure  them  from  the  envious  frowns  of  ill-affected  Neighbours,  and 
the  troubles  which  usually  arise  thence.30 

In  1787  Roy  all  Tyler's  play  The  Contrast  was  produced  in  a  New  York 
greatly  changed  from  the  little  town  "of  Brick  and  Stone"  31  which  Denton 
knew.  The  Prologue  was  written  in  the  first  rapture  of  patriotic  feeling 
for  an  independent  United  States,  proud  of  its  release  from  the  colonial 
status  of  Denton's  day,  but  its  tone  and  emphasis  are  close  to  his. 

Why  should  our  thoughts  to  distant  countries  roam, 

When  each  refinement  may  be  found  at  home? 

Who  travels  now  to  ape  the  rich  or  great, 

To  deck  an  equipage  and  roll  in  state;     * 

To  court  the  graces,  or  to  dance  with  ease, 

Or  by  hypocrisy  to  strive  to  please? 

Our  free-born  ancestors  such  arts  despis'd; 

Genuine  sincerity  alone  they  priz'd; 

Their  minds,  with  honest  emulation  fir'd, 

To  solid  good— not  ornament— aspir'd; 

Or,  if  ambition  rous'd  a  bolder  flame, 

Stern  virtue  throve,  where  indolence  was  shame.32 

A  crowded  century  of  American  history,  a  revolution,  and  a  radical 
change  in  many  ideas  and  conditions,  separate  Denton  and  Tyler  but  the 
colonial  Long  Islander's  love  of  his  native  soil  and  its  way  of  life,  coupled 
with  his  disparagement  of  the  "pomp  and  bravery"  of  European  society 
compared  with  that  of  the  New  World,  were  as  characteristic  of  1787  as 
of  1670. 

The  territory  immediately  to  the  south  of  New  Netherland  was  more 
closely  tied  to  Sweden  than  to  Holland.  In  1638  a  group  of  Swedes  bought 
from  the  Indians  land  on  the  west  shore  of  the  Delaware  and  in  a  few 
years  extended  their  domain  as  far  as  Trenton  in  one  direction  and  Cape 
Henlopen  in  the  other.  They  built  Fort  Christina,  now  Wilmington, 
Delaware,  and  for  a  time  maintained  themselves  against  their  Dutch  and 
British  neighbors,  but  in  1654  were  conquered  by  the  New  Netherlanders. 


30  Brief  Description,  p.  20. 

31  Brief  Description,  p.  3. 

32Royall  Tyler,  The  Contrast  (Philadelphia,   1790),  Prologue. 


28  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  Finnish  and  Swedish  settlers  left  their  mark  in  architecture— most 
notably  in  the  log  cabin  which  became  a  familiar  feature  of  the  frontier 
landscape— and  handicrafts,  especially  wood  carving.  Scandinavian  folk 
tales  became  part  of  the  American  heritage,  and  Swedish  Lutheranism 
lived  on  as  an  important  strain  in  the  religions  development  of  the  Middle 
Colonies.  But  the  Swedish  accounts  of  New  Sweden,  like  the  Dutch  ones 
in  New  Netherland,  are  too  far  from  the  center  of  the  colonial  literary 
current  to  need  special  comment  here.  The  Scandinavian  cultural  con- 
tribution was  important  but  its  fruitfulness  was  not  principally  in  literature. 

Still  farther  to  the  South,  between  Virginia  and  Spanish  Florida,  the 
area  which  became  the  Carolinas  and  Georgia  was  early  recognized  as 
being  valuable,  if  for  no  other  reason  than  because  it  was  a  bar  against 
Spanish  encroachment,  but  it  was  not  until  Charles  IPs  time  that  colonies 
were  formally  established  there,  and  until  then  there  were  fewT  white 
settlers.  In  1663,  however,  the  King  gave  to  a  group  of  loyal  courtiers 
land  between  Florida  and  Virginia  and  two  years  later  extended  jhe 
grant  to  cover  the  area  from  south  of  St.  Augustine  in  Florida,  £hen 
Spanish,  northward  to  Curretuck  Inlet.  The  proprietors  had  absolute 
rights  to  the  land  and  the  laws  for  the  new  domain  were  to  be  of  their 
making.  The  population  grew  gradually,  centering  about  Albemarle 
Sound  and  about  Charles  Town  (Charleston)  farther  south.  The  latter 
settlement  quickly  became  one  of  the  most  important  towns  in  the 
colonies.  The  richer  planters  and  merchants,  who  clustered  there  during 
the  hot  summers,  formed  a  society  modelled  on  English  lines.  It  soon  took 
on  local  characteristics  and  became  in  the  eighteenth  century  one  of  the 
chief  colonial  centers  of  literary  and  artistic  culture. 

Elsewhere  in  the  Carolinas  the  population  was  mixed  and  scattered. 
There  were  refugees  or  adventurers  from  Virginia;  for  a  time  a  band  of 
New  England  Puritans;  French  Huguenots,  Germans,  and  Swiss.  There 
were  political  and  religious  cleavages,  and  little  chance  for  the  writing 
and  circulation  of  books.  There  were  printed,  however,  a  spate  of  pamph- 
lets extolling  Carolina  in  order  to  entice  hopeful  fortune  hunters.  Such 
things  as  An  Account  of  the  Province  of  Carolina  by  Samuel  Wilson 
(fl.  "1678-82)  or  Carolina:  or  a  Description  of  the  Present  State  of  that 
Country,  by  Thomas  Ash  (fl.  1682),  both  printed  in  London  in  1682,  con- 
tain useful  material  but  have  small  claim  to  a  place  in  American  literary 
history.  They  are  simply  routine  examples  of  how  Englishmen  with  a 
little  knowledge  of  Carolina  set  to  work  to  sell  colonial  real  estate. 

The  case  is  different  with  a  later  book  of  Carolinian  travel,  A  New 
Voyage  to  Carolina:  Containing  the  Exact  Description  and  Natural- 
History  of  that  Country  (London,  1709)  by  John  Lawson  (d.1711),  later 
given  the  misleading  title,  The  History  of  Carolina:'''  It  is  not  a  history  but 

8S  Printed  as  the  second  item  in  John  Stevens,  A  New  Collection  of  Voyages  and 
Travels   (London,  171 1).  All  references  are  to  this  edition. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  29 

a  three-part  description  of  Carolina.  The  first  section  is  Lawson's  "Journal 
of  a  Thousand  Miles  Travel  .  .  .  from  South  to  North  Carolina,"  the 
second  is  a  detailed  account  of  the  country  and  its  flora  and  fauna,  and 
the  third  "An  Account  of  the  Indians."  All  three  are  lighted  up  with  neat 
phrasing,  anecdote,  and  occasional  bits  of  personal  comment,  which  reveal 
Lawson's  inquiring  mind,  charitable  instincts,  and  soundly  Christian  spirit. 
Now  and  then  his  sentences  straggle  off  aimlessly  and  his  paragraphs  seem 
organized  only  by  whim,  but  his  prose  is  usually  competent.  Here  and 
there  it  is  better  than  that,  since  Lawson  had  a  knack  for  telling  a  story 
and  a  good  ear  for  the  virtues  of  a  homely  vocabulary.  The  effect  is 
admirably  realistic;  he  keeps  himself  just  enough  to  the  fore  to  make  his 
paoes  seem,  as  they  were  in  fact,  the  straightforward  record  of  an  experi- 
enced observer  who  preferred  "Impartiality,  and  Truth  ...  to  a  smooth 
Stile,  accompanv'd  with  Falsities  and  Hyperboles."  34 

He  seems  to  have  been  a  man  of  some  rank  and  culture  in  England— 
probably  the  son  of  a  landed  Yorkshire  family.  His  occasional  literary 
allusions  and  his  complaints  that  most  accounts  of  the  colonies  have  been 
wTritten  by  "Persons  of  the  meaner  Sort,  and  generally  of  a  very  slender 
Education"  35  testify  to  his  own  pretensions  to  something  better.  He  came 
to  Carolina  about  1700  and  stayed  for  seven  or  t eight  years,  exploring, 
developing  his  estate,  raising  strawberries  and  planting  trees,  making 
friends  with  the  Indians  and  eating  with  gusto  all  the  local  delicacies  from 
bear  meat  to  terrapin.  About  1708  he  went  to  England  probably  to  finish 
his  book  and  see  it  through  the  press,  but  he  came  back  to  Carolina  again, 
this  time  with  an  appointment  as  surveyor-general.  The  whole  tone  of 
his  New  Voyage  and  his  references  to  the  Carolinians  as  "we",  suggest 
that  he  looked  upon  the  colony  as  his  real  home.  He  lived  out  the  brief 
remainder  of  his  life  there,  dying  in  171 1,  ironically  enough  at  the  hands 
of  the  Indians  whom  he  had  praised. 

His  writing  rings  too  true  to  be  that  of  a  mere  professional  propagandist. 
Every  novelty  or  oddity  interested  him.  He  took  pains  with  his  descrip- 
tion of  an  old  squaw  and  his  account  of  how  an  amorous  fellow-traveller 
was  tricked  by  his  Indian  "bride."  He  wrote  vividly  about  Indian  necro- 
mancy, and  the  native  birds  and  animals  fascinated  him.  He  treats  them 
with  a  kind  of  affectionate  humor.  "The  Possum  is  .  .  .  the  Wonder  of 
all  the  Land-Animals  ...  If  a  Cat  has  nine  Lives,  this  Creature  surely  has 
nineteen."  "The  Raccoon  ...  is  the  drunkenest  Creature  living,  if  he  can 
get  any  Liquor  that  is  sweet  and  strong."  36 

Lawson  usually  writes  as  a  thoroughly  rational  man.  He  is  tolerant  of 
the  French  and  other  races  among  the  settlers,  and  believes  in  treating  the 
Indians  well.  He  bases  his  argument  for  Carolina  on  reasonable  considera- 


4  New  Voyage,  Preface. 

5  New  Voyage,  Preface,  p.  : 

6  New  Voyage,  pp.  120-121, 


3o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tions— the  steadiness  of  the  market  for  the  ships'  stores  it  produced,  its  soft 
climate,  and  its  nearness  to  Virginia  and  its  shipping. 

The  effect  of  his  book  is  enhanced  by  his  frequent  discussions  of  issues 
which  we  now  recognize  as  having  been  important  and  bv  his  attention 
to  aspects  of  the  American  scene  which  were  to  affect  the  future.  He 
was  English-bred  and  sure  that  it  was  best  to  live  near  the  sea,  but  he  was 
open-minded  to  the  possibility  that  beyond  the  mountains  to  the  west 
there  might  be  undiscovered  treasures,  and  he  hoped  some  day  to  seek  for 
them.  His  program  for  fair  treatment  of  the  Indians  showed  his  confidence 
that  racial  harmony  was  possible  in  the  New  World.  He  disapproved  of 
the  exploitation  of  the  weak  by  the  strong,  telling  how  some  of  the  French 
were  "hemm'd  in"  by  the  English  who  "took  up  and  survey'd  all  the  Land 
round  about  them."  He  hit  shrewdly  on  a  central  problem  which  affected 
the  course  of  history,  when  he  pointed  out  the  advantages  of  Carolina,  in 
that  there  land  on  "Navigable  Creeks,  Rivers,  and  Harbours"  could  be  had 
cheaply,  whereas  elsewhere  small  buyers  were  often  driven  "into  remoter 
Holes  and  Corners"  to  find  anything  they  could  afford.  Carolina,  Lawson 
thought,  offered  reasonable  men  a  chance  to  "enjoy  their  Liberty  and 
Religion,  and  peaceably  eat  the  Fruits  of  their  Labour,  and  drink  the  Wine 
of  their  own  Vineyards,  without  the  Alarms  of  a  troublesome  worldly 
Life."  The  colony  was:  "...  the  Place  where  any  Man  may  peaceably 
enjoy  his  own,  without  being  invaded  by  another;  Rank  and  Superiority 
ever  giving  Place  to  Justice  and  Equity,  which  is  the  Golden  Rule  that 
every  Government  ought  to  be  built  upon,  and  regulated  by."  37 

Some  of  the  values  vLawson  emphasized— political  and  religious  freedom, 
tolerance  in  religion  and  in  race  relations,  and  peaceful  enjoyment  of  the 
fruits  of  labor— were  more  prized  in  Pennsylvania  than  in  any  other  colony. 
William  Penn  ( 1644-17 18),  its  founder,  was  a  convert  to  Quakerism  and 
thus  a  champion  of  peace,  tolerance,  and  the  central  Christian  virtues.  He 
wanted  his  colonial  domain,  granted  him  by  Charles  II  in  1681,  to  be  a 
refuge  for  Europeans  who,  like  his  fellow-Quakers,  were  oppressed  and 
persecuted  at  home.  He  did  not,  however,  ignore  the  possible  profits  to 
be  made  in  the  colonies  and  combined  the  gentleness  of  the  Quaker  with 
something  of  the  serpentine  wisdom  of  the  Restoration  man-of-affairs. 
He  wrote  well  and  his  No  Cross  No  Crown  (1669)  and  Some  Fruits  of 
Solitude  (1693)  survive  as  minor  religious  classics.  The  humor  in  his 
"Letter  ...  to  the  . . .  Free  Society  of  Traders,"  in  which  he  denies  a 
report  of  his  death,  shows  his  skill  in  a  lighter  vein.38  He  was  an  able 
propagandist  for  his  colony  and  his  faith. 

37  New  Voyage,  pp.  114,  168,  166. 

38  A  Letter  from  William  Penn,  Proprietary  and  Governour  of  Pennsylvania  in 

America,  to   the  Committee   of  the  Free  Society   of   Traders  of  that  Province 

(London,  1683),  reprinted  in  Narratives  of  Early  Pennsylvania,  West  New  Jersey 
and  Delaware,  1630-1707,  ed.  Albert  C.  Myers  (191 2),  pp.  224-244.  See  especially 
the  second  paragraph  on  p.  225. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  31 

The  Quakers'  contempt  for  worldly  rank,  their  insistence  on  the  dignity 
3f  the  individual  and  on  charity  toward  all,  and  their  pacific  attitude, 
served  the  Pennsylvanians  well  in  their  dealings  with  the  Indians  and  with 
die  Europeans  who  thronged  to  the  colony  in  order  to  find  a  land  where 
izhey  might  follow  their  beliefs  more  freely  than  at  home.  Penn  wrote 
in  1685  that  there  were  in  his  colony  "French,  Dutch,  Germans,  Sweeds, 
Danes,  Finns,  Scotch,  Irish  and  English,"  the  last  equalling  all  the  rest  in 
number.39  Pennsylvania  became  more  than  any  other  of  the  early  settle- 
ments, a  genuine  "melting  pot"  of  races.  Some  of  its  social  and  political 
ideas  influenced  greatly  the  development  of  humane  and  liberal  traditions 
in  the  United  States. 

Implicit  in  Quakerism  were  an  asceticism  based  on  the  theory  that  any 
worldly  delight  might  distract  man  from  his  concentration  on  God's 
"inner  light"  and  a  relative  contempt  for  learning,  arising  from  the  Quaker's 
belief  that  divine  revelation  was  continuous  and  immediate  in  men's  hearts. 
The  Quaker  literary  creed  accordingly  demanded  plainness  and  avoidance 
of  merely  sensuous  appeals  and  left  little  room  for  elaborate  artistry. 
Secondary  education  flourished  rather  than  the  pursuit  of  advanced  learn- 
ing, and  the  chief  emphasis  was  on  the  knowledge  most  immediately  useful 
in  a  workaday  world.  * 

There  was  a  place,  though,  for  effective  writing  on  the  advantages 
which  Pennsylvania  offered  to  settlers.  Penn  wrote,  and  encouraged  others 
to  write,  promotion  pamphlets  of  the  usual  sort.  Non-Quaker  Penn- 
sylvanians did  so  too.  A  complete  account  of  the  printed  praises  of 
Penn's  Canaan  would  have  to  reckon  not  only  with  works  in  English, 
like  An  Historical  and  Geographical  Account  of  Pensilvania  (London, 
1698)  by  Gabriel  Thomas  (fl.1681-98),  but  with  works  in  German,  the 
most  valuable  of  which  is  probably  the  Umstandige  Geographische  Besch- 
reibung  by  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  (1 651- 1720),  and  with  at  least  one 
short  letter  in  Welsh,  written  in  1725  by  one  John  Jones.40 

What  sets  such  writings  a  bit  apart  from  most  colonial  work  elsewhere 
is  their  tone  of  spiritual  seriousness  and  their  emphasis  on  the  colony  as  an 
asylum  for  true  Christians  rather  than  just  a  place  for  making  a  fortune. 
The  tone  and  emphasis  reflect  the  noblest  qualities  of  the  Pennsylvania 

experiment. 

#         *         * 

By  the  seventeen-thirties  there  was  less  need  for  colonization  propa- 
ganda, except  in  the  most  recently  settled  areas.  In  those  the  descriptive 
pamphlets  and  books  show  nothing  very  novel.  More  interesting  are  the 
later  works  written  in  the  older  colonies  which,  although  ostensibly  still 

39  William  Penn,  A  further  Account  of  the  Province  of  Pennsylvania  (London  [?], 
1685),  reprinted  in  Narratives  of  Early  Pennsylvania,  pp.  259-278.  The  quotation  is 

from  p.  260.  . 

40  Narratives  of  Early  Pennsylvania  reprints  these  three  works. 


32  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

accounts  of  the  new  country,  show  how  the  character  of  colonial  life  and 
the  attitudes  of  the  colonists  had  changed  since  the  pioneer  days.  Some 
of  the  old  excitement  had  gone,  but  it  was  now  possible  to 'produce 
gracefully  written  records  of  American  living,  concerned  with  about  the 
same  aspects  of  society  which  might  have  interested  an  urbane  traveller 
in  Paris  or  Rome. 

William  Byrd  (1674- 1744)  is  the  most  famous  American  early  eight- 
eenth-century writer  in  this  vein.  A  prosperous  Virginian  landowner,  he 
lived  at  his  estate  of  Westover  in  the  manner  of  an  English  country  gentle- 
man, and  his  easy  prose  was  modelled  on  that  of  the  contemporaneous 
literary  gods  of  London.  But  he  had  too  much  wit  and  too  quick  a  comic 
sense  to  miss  the  entertaining  possibilities  for  literature  offered  by  some 
of  the  more  unsophisticated  features  of  the  life  about  him.  His  best  writ- 
ing, although  derivative  in  manner,  is  rich  with  the  flavor  of  colonial 
Virginia. 

^  |His  recently  published  diaries  have  little  literary  quality,  but  are  full  of 
information  on  the  life  of  a  hard-working  planter,  amateur  scientific 
observer,  scholar,  book-collector,  and  country  gentleman.41  They  explain 
why  Byrd  was  respected  and  liked  both  in  Virginia  where  he  was  born 
and  in  England  where  he  was  educated  and  where  eventually  he  was  elected 
one  of  the  American  Fellows  of  the  Royal  Society  of  scientists  and  wits. 
He  loved  his  library  and  his  lands,  was  neither  a  libertine  nor  a  prude,  and 
without  ever  achieving  great  statesmanship  was  a  useful  public  servant. 
Some  time  after  his  death  in  1744  a  eulogist  had  inscribed  on  his  tomb  an 
epitaph  which  praised  him  as  a  man  of  "great  elegance  of  taste  and  life."  42 
One  test  of  his  "taste"  was  his  interest  in  belles-lettres.  For  years  he 
diverted  himself  by  writing  a  variety  of  "literary  exercises,"  mostly  trivial 
but  all  showing  a  pleasant  talent  for  the  lighter  forms  of  prose.43  His 
position  in  literary  history  rests  chiefly  on  three  works,  left  unpublished 
at  his  death-his  Progress  to  the  Mines  (1732),  A  Journey  to  the  Land  of 
Eden  (0.1733),  an(*  History  of  the  Dividing  Line  (probably  finished  in 
1738).  The  first  two  described  journeys  which  he  took  to  examine  some 
of  his  immense  land-holdings  on  the  frontier;  the  third  is  his  record  of 
his  adventures£on  the  arduous  surveying  trip  in  1728  which  eventually 
resulted  in  fixing  the  boundary  between  Virginia  and  North  Carolina. 

The  History  is  representative  of  his  manner  and  method.  There  are 
two  versions,  one  apparently  written  for  the  information  of  his  family 
and  friends  soon  after  the  trip  it  describes  was  made,  and  the  other  a  more 
polished  record  apparently  planned  for  publication.  In  the  latter  he  in- 
cluded for  the  sake  of  perspective  a  brief  survey  of  all  the  colonies, 

41  The  Secret  Diary  of  William  Byrd,  ed.  Louis  B.  Wright  and  Marion  Tinling 
(1941);  Another  Secret  Diary,  cd.  Maude  H.  Woodfin  (1942). 

42  Quoted  in  Richmond  C  Beatty,  William  Byrd  (1932),  p.  211. 

4:5  See  the  "Letters  and  Literary  Exercises"  in  Another  Secret  Diary,  pp.  191-475. 


EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS  33 

n  which,  good  Virginian  that  he  was,  he  pointed  out  how  they 
lad  all  been  carved  out  of  the  original  grant  to  the  founders  of  Virginia 
iind  took  pains  to  show  that  each  of  them  lacked  the  perfection  of  the 
parent  colony.  He  also  altered  the  first  draft  by  toning  down  some  of  its 
comments  on  individuals  and  suppressed  a  few  passages  about  the  sexual 
indiscretions  of  some  members  of  the  expedition.  With  an  eye  to  read- 
ability he  cut  out  some  documentary  material  and  also  modestly  excised 
his  transcripts  of  the  speeches  he  made  to  his  companions.  He  added 
descriptions  of  animals  and  plants,  bits  of  scientific  speculation,  a  great 
'deal  about  Indian  life,  and  about  the  Carolinians.  Those  unhappy  neigh- 
bors became  the  clowns  of  the  book  and  everything  ridiculous  in  their 
characters  and  lives  was  played  up.  His  little  vignette  of  the  Carolinians' 
daily  routine  is  a  sufficient  sample: 

The  Men  . . .  impose  all  the  Work  upon  the  poor  Women. . . .  They  lye  and 
Snore  till  the  Sun  has  run  one  third  of  his  course,  and  disperst  all  the 
unwholesome  Damps.  Then,  after  Stretching  and  Yawning  for  half  an  Hour, 
they  light  their  Pipes,  and,  under  the  Protection  of  a  cloud  of  Smoak,  venture 
out  into  the  open  Air;  tho\  if  it  happens  to  be  never  so  little  cold,  they 
quickly  return  Shivering  into  the  Chimney  corner.  When  the  weather  is  mild, 
they  stand  leaning  with  both  their  arms  upon  the  corn-field  fence,  and  gravely 
consider  whether  they  had  best  go  and  take  a  Small  Heat  at  the  Hough:  but 
generally  find  reasons  to  put  it  off  till  another  time.44 

The  revision  also  shows  his  care  for  neat  phrasing  and  for  conventional 
stylistic  fashions.  Sometimes  the  amendment  seems  too  artificial  and  loses 
the  directness  of  the  original,  as  in  the  change  from  "that  making  Slut 
Echo"  to  "that  prating  Nymph  Echo,  who,  like  a  loquacious  Wife,  will 
always  have  the  last  Word,  and  Sometimes  return  three  for  one."  45  But 
usually  the  changes  added  a  humorous  touch  or  gave  a  witty  twist  to  the 
simpler  first  draft.  Byrd  told  of 

a  Marooner  who  had  the  Confidence  to  call  himself  an  Hermit. ...  He 
has  no  other  Habitation  but  a  green  Bower  or  Harbour  with  a  Female  Domes- 
tick  as  wild  &  as  dirty  as  himself.  His  Diet  is  chiefly  Oysters,  which  he  has 
just  Industry  enough  to  gather  from  the  Neighbouring  Oyster  Banks  while 
his  Concubine  makes  a  Practice  of  driving  up  the  Neighbour's  Cows  for  the 
advantage  of  their  Milk. 

nThis  was  reshaped  into: 
...a  Marooner,  that  Modestly  call'd  himself  a  Hermit,  tho'  he  forfeited  that 
Name  by  Suffering  a  wanton  Female  to  cohabit  with  Him. 

"William  Byrd's  Histories  of  the  Dividing  Line  Betwixt  Virginia  and  North 
Carolina,  cd.  William  K.  Boyd  (Department  of  Archives  and  History,  S  ate :  of  North 
Carolina  Raleigh,  1020),  p.  92.  This  volume  contains  both  the  origina  and  revised 
^^oiAsLyo^  the  Dividing  Line,  and  all  references  to  either  are  to  * 

45  Dividing  Line,  pp.  74~75- 


34  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

His  Habitation  was  a  Bower,  cover'd  with  Bark  after  the  Indian  Fashion, 
which  in  that  mild  Situation  protected  him  pretty  well  from  the  Weather. 
Like  the  Ravens,  he  neither  plow'd  nor  sow'd,  but  Subsisted  chiefly  upon 
Oysters,  which  his  Handmaid  made  a  Shift  to  gather  from  the  Adjacent  Rocks. 
Sometimes,  too,  for  Change  of  Dyet,  he  sent  her  to  drive  up  the  Neighbour's 
Cows,  to  moisten  their  Mouths  with  a  little  Milk.  But  as  for  raiment,  he 
depended  mostly  upon  his  Length  of  Beard,  and  She  upon  her  Length  of 
Hair,  part  of  which  she  brought  decently  forward,  and  the  rest  dangled 
behind  quite  down  to  her  Rump,  like  one  of  Herodotus's  East  Indian  Pigmies. 

Thus  did  these  Wretches  live  in  a  dirty  State  of  Nature,  and  were  mere 
Adamites,  Innocence  only  excepted.46 

The  effort  for  literary  effect  is  obvious.  Virginia  had  developed  English 
patterns  of  gentlemanly  living  into  a  reasonably  accurate  copy,  modified 
somewhat  by  colonial  conditions,  and  naturally  some  of  the  new  aristo- 
crats of  the  tidewater  estates  shared  the  prosperous  Englishman's  polite  | 
respect  for  the  arts.  Byrd's  work  is  an  evidence  of  this  and  also  shows 
that  an  eighteenth-century  Virginian,  although  loyal  to  England  and 
deferential  to  English  modes,  could  adopt  a  habit  of  mind  which  can  be 
called  without  too  much  exaggeration,  American.  Byrd's  enthusiasm  for 
Virginia  is  patent.  His  slurs  on  New  England,  Pennsylvania,  or  Carolina  | 
indicate  how  spontaneously  he  thought  of  the  colonies  as  new  countries 
somehow  set  apart,  so  that  it  was  natural  to  make  comparisons  among  | 
them.  His  local  pride  was  one  of  the  indices  of  his  rudimentary  feeling 
for  America  as  America,  a  feeling  already  seen  in  earlier  writers.  In  their 
work  and  in  his  there  is  manifest  one  of  the  essential  processes  by  which 
transplanted  English  adventurers  and  refugees  were  gradually  changed 
into  men  who  at  first  thought  of  themselves  as  Englishmen  with  a 
difference  and  later  as  full-fledged  Americans. 

46  Dividing  Line,  pp.  46-47,  49. 


Chapter  3 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND 
PROSE  WRITERS 

New  England  like  the  other  colonies  produced  books  of  travel  and 
description,  but  their  significance  in  its  early  literary  history  is  less.  The 
most  active  intellectual  currents  of  New  England  ran  for  a  century  or 
more  in  channels  unlike  those  of  Virginia  or  Carolina,  and  the  works 
which  contribute  most  to  our  understanding  of  the  northern  colonies  and 
are  most  important  in  our  literary  heritage,  were  concerned  with  the 
settlers'  ways  of  thought,  their  religious  doctrines,  and  their  vision  of  an 
American  Promised  Land  for  true  believers.  The  New  Englanders  were 
for  years  predominantly  Puritan-thorough-going  Protestants,  either  rebels 
against  the  Church  of  England  or  would-be  reformers  of  it.  Their  writing 
was  principally  concerned  with  the  ideas  on  which  theyjhoped  to  build 
their  Canaan. 

New  Englands  Prospect  (London,  1634)  by  William  Wood  (n.1629-35) 
cannot  be  neglected,  however,  since  it  is  one  of  the  pleasantest  books  of 
colonial  description.  Little  is  known  about  Wood  except  that  he  came  to 
Massachusetts  in  1629,  and  stayed  for  some  years.  His  book  proves  that 
he  liked  the  colony  and  found  pleasure  in  studying  its  plants,  animals,  and 
especially  its  Indians,  to  whom  he  devoted  the  whole  second  part  of  New 
Englands  Prospect.  He  was  obviously  well-bred,  and  wrote  with  taste 
and  skill,  interlarding  his  prose  with  a  few  snatches  of  verse  and  achieving 
in  some  pages  the  tone  of  a  graceful  familiar  essayist. 

The  same  pleasure  in  wilderness  life  comes  out  in  The  New  English 
Canaan  (Amsterdam,  1637)  by  Thomas  Morton  (fl.1622-47),  but  here 
there  is  no  liking  for  the  Puritans,  and  the  "saints"  are  ridiculed.  Morton 
was  frankly  interested  in  wine,  women,  and  song,  in  money-making,  and 
in  the  pleasures  a  carefree  trader  could  find  in  the  wilderness.  He  defied 
the  laws  by  selling  liquor  and  firearms  to  the  Indians  and  the  authorities 
retaliated  with  fines  and  imprisonment.  He  did  what  he  could  to  even  the 

35 


36  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

score  in  his  book  which,  although  its  stylistic  merits  are  slight,  is  light-! 
hearted  in  its  satire  of  Puritan  worthies  like  Captain  Miles  Standish  of 
Plymouth,  who  appears  as  "Captain  Shrimp."  To  win  support  in  England 
Morton  posed  as  a  devout  Anglican,  but  it  is  absurd  to  romanticize  him 
as  a  martyr  for  a  faith  or  a  crusader  against  intolerance.  The  real  issue 
was  not  religion  but  the  fact  that  drunken  Indians  with  guns  were 
dangerous  and  that  Morton  was  willing  to  let  them  drink  and  shoot  if  he 
could  drive  better  bargains  than  his  competitors.  The  most  famous  episode 
of  his  career,  which  supplied  material  for  later  storytellers,  was  his  May- 
pole celebration  at  Merrymount  (now  Wollaston)  onlv  a  few  miles  from 
Boston.  The  whole  rite  was  pagan  in  Puritan  eyes.  "They  termed  it  an 
Idoll;  yea,  they  called  it  the  Calfe  of  Horeb,"  and  the  dancing,  the  jovial 
song  in  praise  of  Hymen  and  of  "lasses  in  beaver  coats,"  outraged  pious 
supporters  of  law  and  order.1 

The  contrast  between  the  Puritan  attitude  and  Morton's  is  shown  in 
New-En  glands  Plantation  (London,  1630)  by  Francis  Higginson  (1586- 
1630).2  Higginson,  a  Cambridge  graduate,  came  to  New  England  in  1629 
and  ministered  to  the  Salem  congregation  until  his  death  in  the  next  year. 
His  little  book  eulogizes  New  England— "a  sup  of  New-Englands  Aire  is 
better  then  a  whole  draft  of  old  Englands  Ale"— although  he  does  confess 
that  the  snakes  were  dangerous,  the  mosquitoes  a  nuisance,  and  the  cold 
severe.  The  climax  rises  to  a  level  Morton  never  reached:  "That  which  is 
our  greatest  comfort,  and  meanes  of  defence  ...  is,  that  we  have  here  the 
true  Religion  and  holy  Ordinances  of  Almightie  God  taught  amongst  us. 
. .  .  We  doubt  not  but  God  will  be  with  us,  and  if  God  be  with  us,  who 
can  be  against  us?"  3  Because  they  felt  thus,  ardent  Puritans  found  New 
England  fair  and  discovered  beauty  in  a  way  of  life  which  now  seems 
sadlv  limited  and  strict.  They  saw  themselves  as  champions  of  "true 
religion"  who  could  count  on  the  special  protection  of  God.  Thence  came 
not  only  their  intolerance  and  dogmatic  arrogance  but  their  passionate  love 
for  the  principles  by  which  they  lived. 

The  literature  of  early  New  England  was  more  voluminous  than  that 
of  any  other  colonial  area,  not  only  because  the  conditions  of  settlement 
facilitated  education  and  the  circulation  of  books,  but  because  its  leaders 
believed  that  teaching  and  learning  were  necessary  for  godliness.  The 
pattern  of  the  communities  set  up  by  the  Plymouth  colonists  of  1620, 
those  who  came  to  Massachusetts  Bay  in  1630,  and  their  neighbors  in 
Rhode  Island  and  Connecticut,  was  established  by  men  for  whom  religious 
ardor  was  the  dominant  motive. 

Puritanism  in  the  simplest  and  most  general  terms  was  the  way  of 

1  New  English  Canaan,  ed.  Charles  F.  Adams  (1883),  pp.  278,  280.  Cf.  John  L. 
Motley's  Merry-Mount  and  Hawthorne's  tale,  "The  Maypole  of  Merry  Mount." 

2  Reprinted  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force  (reprint  edition,  1947),  Vol.  1.  References  here 
are  to  this  edition. 

3  New-Englands  Plantation,  pp.  10,  14. 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  37 

thinking  followed  by  a  variety  of  sects  which  shared  an  extreme  Protestant 
hatred  of  Rome,  a  dislike  for  the  polity  and  ceremonial  of  the  Church 
of  England,  and  a  determination  to  believe  and  act  as  God's  law,  re- 
vealed in  Holy  Writ,  demanded.  Their  theology  was  basically  Calyinistic. 
Man  had  been  made  vile  by  Adam's  sin,  and  salvation  was  possible  only 
because  of  Christ's  sacrifice  which  won  mercy  for  a  few  "elect,"  whom 
God  predestined  to  Heaven.  No  one  was  saved  merely  by  being  good; 
blessedness  was  vouchsafed  only  to  those  whom  God  arbitrarily  chose 
and  to  whom  he  o-ave  the  grace  which  enabled  them  consistently  to  follow 
his  law.ffhe  Puritan  toiled  to  do  God's  will  because  if  he  could  prove 
to  himself  that  he  was  able  to  live  up  to  God's  commands  he  might  be 
reasonably  safe  in  supposing  he  was  among  the  "elect."  Only  then  could 
he  escape  obsessive  fear  of  damnation.  He  had  to  study  in  order  to  discover 
from  his  Bible,  from  Calvin  and  other  interpreters,  and  from  all  he  could 
learn  of  the  material  order  of  God's  creation,  what  the  divine  will  was, 
and  then  he  must  work  desperately  to  follow  it.  His  religious  and  political 
institutions,  his  moral  code,  and  his  artistic  principles  were  all  moulded  by 
his  conviction  that  unless  they  accorded  with  God's  law,  he  was  among 
the  damned,  and  that  if  they  did  accord  he  and  his  fellows  in  church  and 
state  might  hope  for  an  eternity  of  bliss.  Inevitably  he  was  strict,  intolerant, 
and,  as  seen  today,  pedantic  in  his  insistence  on  details  of  belief  and 


practice. 

The  Angkeln  was  equally  sure  that  the  Bible  was  God's  word  and, 
during  the  first  years  of  New  England,  equally  loyal  to  the  basic  tenets 
of  Calvin,  but  he  followed  ways  for  which  the  Puritans  could  find  no 
Scriptural  authority.  He  got  around  this  by  saying  that  much  not 
specifically  forbidden  in  the  Bible  could  still  be  rationally  proved  good. 
Alan  was  given  reason  by  God;  he  should  use  the  gift,  and  whatever  had 
served  usefully  in  Christian  worship  could  be  reasonably  justified.  But 
the  Puritans  insisted  that  the  Bible  was  the  complete  and  timeless  state- 
ment of  God's  law  for  man  so  that  nothing  was  permissible  unlessjauthor- 
ized  by  it.  Therefore  they  rejected  many  elements  in  the  Anglican  system. 
This  side  of  Puritanism  was  negative;  its  positive  aspect  was  the  impulse 
it  gave  to  thought  and  action,  its  stimulation  of  a  Christian  life  involving 
"thou  shalt"  quite  as  much  as  "thou  shalt  not." 

In  the  Puritan  villages  religious  and  political  doctrines  were  expounded 
from  the  pulpit;  the  minister's  books  were  lent  to  members  of  his  flock; 
and  schools  were  started  for  children  in  order  that  they  might  read  their 
Bibles.  Harvard  was  founded  in  1636  because  the  colonists  did  not  want 
"an  illiterate  Ministery."  4  Books  and  learning  were  keys  to  the  ideas  on 
which  the  wilderness  Zion  was  built. 
-The  approach  to  literature  was  utilitarian,  but  there  are  different  kinds 

4  New  England's  First  Friths    (London,   1643),  in  Perry  Miller  and  Thomas   H. 
Johnson,  The  Furkans  (1938),  p.  701. 


38  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  usefulness.  The  writings  which  we  have  looked  at  in  the  other  colonies 
were  serviceable  because  they  attracted  settlers,  taught  them  how  to  get 
on,  and  preached  a  sound  and  heroic  standard  of  patriotism.  New  England 
writings  were  useful  over  a  larger  range  and  dealt  with  more  stimulating 
intellectual  themes. 

The  Catholics  and  Anglicans  supported  their  faiths  with  great  poetry 
and  prose;  the  colonial  Puritan  had  to  try  to  write  as  well  as  his  adversaries. 
He  had  to  find  artistic  principles  which  were  suited  to  his  philosophic  and 
religious  beliefs.  His  literary  theory  was  limited  in  some  ways,  but  it 
rested  on  a  soundly  reasoned  conception  of  function  and  method,  a 
philosophic  or  quasi-metaphysical  basis,  and  was  admirably  adapted  to 
its  audience. 

To  understand  how  and  why  the  colonial  Puritan  wrote,  it  is  not 
necessary  to  trace  all  the  intricacies  of  his  philosophy  and  psychology.  A 
few  landmarks  are  enough  to  plot  his  course.  He  started  from  the  con- 
viction that  the  universe  was  divinely  ordered  and  that  man  could  get  an 
adequate  picture  of  its  order.  Ideas  corresponded  to  objects  and  were  not 
separate  entities  in  the  mind  with  a  logic  of  their  own.  In  dealing  with 
them  and  with  the  reality  they  represented,  New  England  Puritans  relied 
heavily  on  the  dialectic  of  Ramus  (Pierre  de  la  Ramee)  whose  system 
seemed  admirable  not  only  because  he  opposed  some  of  the  scholastic 
philosophy  on  which  Anglicans  and  Catholics  commonly  relied,  but  also 
because  it  was  simpler  than  that  traditionally  derived  from  Aristotle.  It 
was  easier  for  Puritan  teachers  to  use  with  pupils  who  were  relatively  un- 
tutored in  philosophical  niceties.  Ramus's  logic  reduced  everything  to  a 
chart,  based  on  a  series  of  dichotomies,  and  gave  his  followers  a  method 
which  worked  very  well  for  most  practical  purposes.  It  made  it  possible 
for  the  Puritan  to  keep  God  supreme,  a  being  whose  full  nature  could 
never  be  fathomed,  but  at  the  same  time  to  see  in  the  created  world  a 
revelation  of  a  harmonious  plan  which  typified  God's  purposes,  gave  a 
clue  to  his  will,  and  could  be  understood  by  logical  analysis. 

Such  thinking  freed  writers  from  the  necessity  of  bothering  with  all 
the  elaborate  rhetorical  devices  dear  to  Aristotelians  or  to  the  nominalists 
who  held  that  ideas  existed  in  a  separate  order  from  objects  and  therefore 
could  be  manipulated  independently.  The  Puritan  author  maintained  that 
the  essential  of  good  writing  was  the  expression  in  words  of  ideas  arranged 
in  an  order  naturally  and  properly  in  agreement  with  the  structure  dis- 
cernible in  the  physical  world  and  with  the  natural  working  of  men's 
minds.  Clear  structure  was  essential;  the  belief  that  ideas  were  counterparts 
of  objects  made  for  exactness  in  diction;  and  the  notion  that  God's 
designs  were  reflected  in  what  he  created  encouraged  the  use  of  concrete 
symbols  to  express  abstract  entities.  The  Puritans  gave  special  character 
to  their  metaphors  and  similes  by  insisting  that  they  be  relevant  to  central 
truth.  They  avoided  using  them  simply  as  adornments,  displaying  rather 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  39 

:he  ingenuities  of  rhetorical  theorists  than  God's  planning  of  the  created 
3rder.  The  Puritan  thought  he  could  justify  his  symbols  both  philosophi- 

:allv  and  theologically. 

He  used  them  the  more  readily  because  he  saw  their  practical  utility. 
He  believed  the  senses  brought  material  to  the  mind,  where  it  was  worked 
m  by  the  reason  which  was  capable  of  producing  true  conclusions  and 
notives  for  right  action.  But  the  passions  and  the  errant  fancy,  carnal 
ippetites  and  emotional  prejudices,  could,  since  Adam's  fall  had  degraded 
nan,  upset  the  process.  The  problem  was  to  encourage  the  "rational" 
passions  and  to  subdue  the  sensual,  to  enlist  the  fancy  and  the  affections 
as  servants  of  the  reason.  If  they  could  be  appeased  and  persuaded  so  that 
thev  transmitted  impressions  accurately,  reason  was  free  to  work.  But 
if  a  book  was  incomprehensible  and  dull,  attention  would  stray  and  the 
reason  would  be  starved.  Or  if  the  pages  were  too  stimulating  to  the 
flesh,  the  mind  would  be  seduced  to  forbidden  thoughts  and  again  the 
reason  would  be  cheated. 

The  Puritan  went  farther  than  most  Catholics  or  Anglicans  in  his  dis- 
trust of  the  sensuous.  Rome  and  Canterbury  agreed  that  appeals  to  the 
senses,  even  of  a  fleshly  kind,  might  be  valid  in  worship.  They  were  after 
all  part  of  God's  creation  and  experience  proved  trjat  they  might  provoke 
emotional  states  useful  to  faithful  Christians.  But  the  Puritans  looked  on 
worship  primarily  as  a  way  of  informing  men  about  God's  laws  rather 
than  as  a  means  of  arousing  an  emotional  response.  No  institution  could 
intercede  for  the  Puritan  and  the  function  of  the  church  service  was  not 
to  lull  the  senses  into  acquiescence  but  to  instruct  and  to  stimulate  per- 
sonal faith  and  action. 

Too  sensuous  similes,  metaphors,  and  diction  might  set  up  irrelevant  or 
evil  trains  of  thought.  Too  subtle  and  complex  rhetorical  figures  were 
dangerous  because  concentration  on  the  intellectual  satisfaction  they  gave 
might  detract  from  the  perception  of  truth.  The  Puritan's  philosophical 
and  psychological  tenets  and  his  theological  conception  of  the  hostility 
between  spirit  and  flesh  coincided  to  convince  him  that  logic,  order, 
accuracy,  and  clarity  were  the  central  virtues  of  style. 

His  conviction  was  strengthened  by  his  knowledge  of  his  audience. 
The  sermons  he  preached  in  colonial  meeting-houses  and  the  works  he 
published  for  his  neighbors  had  to  be  directed  to  plain  folk,  fishermen, 
farmers,  and  shopkeepers  who  were  not  often  able  to  appreciate  the 
devices  used  by  the  Anglican  preachers  for  London  wits.  From  the  Puritan 
point  of  view  anything  that  did  not  touch  its  audience  savored  of  vain 
ostentation  and  was  a  misuse  of  opportunity. 

The  "plain  style"  was  the  Puritan's  term  for  the  kind  of  writing  he 
liked  best.  "Plainness"  was  the  product  of  conscious  art.  Clarity  and  sound 
structure  were  fundamental.  Diction  must  be  accurate.  Metaphors  and 
similes  must  aid  understanding.  Biblical  imagery  and  rhetoric  were  always 


4o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

acceptable.  So  was  much  in  the  Greek  and  Roman  classics.  Ramus  had 
declared  that  logic  was  the  formulation  of  what  was  natural  to  the  intel- 
lect, so  that  the  great  writers  throughout  the  ages  must  have  revealed  it 
in  their  work.  And,  with  the  characteristics  of  his  audience  in  mind,  the 
Puritan  found  in  the  sea,  the  woods,  the  fireside  and  the  kitchen,  the 
drill  ground  and  the  shop,  rich  sources  for  imagery.  Similes  drawn  from 
them  were  not  likely  to  provoke  flights  of  carnal  fancy;  the  most  collo- 
quial phrase  or  the  simplest  event  of  every  day  life  could  be  turned  to  the 
service  of  truth. 

The  Puritan's  literary  doctrine  was  not,  however,  so  strict  that  it 
stifled  personality  in  expression.  It  affected  almost  everything  that  was 
written  in  early  New  England,  but  the  best  writers  stand  out  as  individual 
stylists  as  well  as  representatives  of  a  literary  code.  Puritan  theory  did  not 
require  of  the  artist  either  slavish  conformity  to  narrow  convention  or 
sterile  deference  to  artificial  rhetorical  rule. 

Nathaniel  Ward  (c.1578-1 65 2)  shows  how  far  a  strict  Puritan  could 
deviate  from  Puritan  canons  of  style.  A  Cambridge  graduate,  trained 
in  the  law,  he  came  to  New  England  in  1634  and  stayed  until  1646 
when  he  returned  to  England  and  finished  his  career  as  a  preacher 
there.  He  drew  up  the  Body  of  Libertiesy  the  first  Massachusetts  code  of 
laws,  and  his  Simple  Cobler  of  Aggaivam  (London,  1647)  is  one  of  the 
most  striking  books  of  the  colonial  period.  It  is  definitely  American  since 
it  is  full  of  New  England  allusions  and  clearly  dictated  by  zeal  for  the 
Puritan  experiment  in  the  New  World.  Its  stylistic  vigor  and  its  wit  entitle 
it  to  a  place  in  literature. 

Ward's  vocabulary  is  full  of  strange  and  complicated  compounds  and 
coinages.  This  was  no  doubt  partly  because  he  was  older  than  most  of  the 
New  England  writers  and  more  under  the  spell  of  Elizabethan  and  Jaco- 
bean prose  writers  and  partly  because  his  temperamental  robustness  of 
mind  made  him  like  vigorous  effects  in  language.  Violently  intolerant, 
fiercely  devoted  to  his  own  way  of  belief,  and  cynical  about  the  mass  of 
mankind— he  maintained  that  his  two  comforts  were  "the  Perfections  of 
CHRIST'  and  "the  Imperfections  of  all  CHRISTIANS"  5-he  wrote  his 
little  book  to  flay  his  pet  hatreds  (women's  fashions,  the  Irish,  and  all  non- 
Puritans)  and  to  champion  the  Puritan  cause  in  Old  and  New  England. 

Some  passages  are  perfectly  in  key  with  Puritan  canons  of  "plainness," 
but  his  more  extreme  manner  appears  in: 

When  I  hcarc  a  nugipcrous  Gentledame  inquire  what  dresse  the  Queen  is 
in  this  week:  what  the  nudiustertian  fashion  of  the  Court;  I  meane  the  very 
newest:  with  egge  to  be  in  it  in  all  haste,  what  ever  it  be;  I  look  at  her  as 
the  very  gizzard  of  a  trifle,  the  product  of  a  quarter  of  a  cypher,  the  epitome 

■"'  Nathaniel  Ward,  The  Simple  Cobler  of  A^awavi  in  America,  ed.  D.  Pulsifer 
(1843),  P-  Vli  quoted  from  Increase  Mather.  All  references  are  to  this  edition. 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  41 

f  nothing,  fitter  to  be  kickt,  if  shee  were  of  a  kickable  substance,  than  either 
lonour'd  or  humour'd.6 

J5y  Elizabethan  tests  this  was  "witty"  prose. 

That  Ward  thought  about  problems  of  style  appears  in  one  passage  in 
ivhich  he  defines  humorously  some  basic  elements  in  Puritan  literary 
heory: 

To  speak  to  light  heads  with  heavy  words,  were  to  break  their  necks:  to 
doathe  Summer  matter,  with  Winter  Rugge,  would  make  the  Reader  sweat. . . 

The  world's  a  well  strung  fidle,  mans  tongue  the  quill, 
That  fills  the  world  with  fumble  for  want  of  skill, 

When  things  and  words  in  tune  and  tone  doe  meet, 
The  universall  song  goes  smooth  and  sweet.7 

Ward  has  an  unenviable  fame  as  an  advocate  of  intolerance;  one  of  his 
:olonial  contemporaries  outstripped  his  times  in  his  championship  of  reli- 
gious liberty.  Roger  Williams  (c.1603-83),  also  a  Cambridge  graduate, 
:ame  to  New  England  in  163 1  and  began  to  uphold  views  that  outraged 
:he  orthodox.  Banished  from  Massachusetts,  he  took  refuge  in  the  Indian 
:ountry  and  founded  the  town  of  Providence  and  the  Rhode  Island  colony, 
rle  was  restless  in  the  limits  of  any  organized  church  and  became  eventu- 
dly  a  "seeker"  for  religious  truth,  content  with  no  existing  creed  or  form 
Df  worship. 

His  main  heresies  were  ecclesiastical  and  political  rather  than  theological. 
He  demanded  complete  separation  of  the  colonial  congregations  from 
the  English  church  and  attacked  the  validity  of  New  England  land  titles 
by  insisting  that  the  settlers  should  have  bought  their  holdings  from  the 
Indians.  He  protested  against  the  magistrates'  administering  oaths  to  sinful 
men  and  declared  that  they  had  no  power  to  discipline  anyone  for  his 
religious  views,  thereby  loosening  two  foundation  stones  of  the  Puritans' 
governmental  scheme. 

He  seemed  to  the  conventionally  godly  a  pernicious  nuisance;  today 
he  is  remembered  for  his  daring  support  of  freedom  of  conscience.  Later 
the  American  Quakers  upheld  the  same  view,  and  in  1649  the  Calverts 
proclaimed  liberty  of  worship  in  Maryland  for  all  believers  in  Christ. 
Williams  went  much  farther.  His  zeal  for  tolerance  was  not  based  on  a 
wish  to  defend  his  own  sect  from  persecution,  as  the  Calverts'  certainly 
was  in  part,  nor  did  he,  like  most  contemporaneous  English  advocates  of 
toleration,  limit  freedom  to  Christians  or  Protestants. 

It  is  the  will  and  command  of  God  [he  declared]  that ...  a  permission  of  the 
most  Paganish,  Jewish,  Turkish,  or  Antichristian  consciences  and  worships, 
bee  granted  to  all  men  in  all  Nations  and  Countries:  and  they  are  onely  to  bee 

6  Simple  Co  bier,  p.  26. 

7  Simple  Cobler,  p.  87. 


42  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

fought  against  with  that  Sivord  which  is  only   (in  Soule  matters)   able  to 
conquer,  to  wit,  the  Sword  of  Gods  Spirit,  the  Word  of  God.s 

IThis  principle  and  that  of  the  separation  of  church  and  state  are  written 
into  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  and,  however  badly  lived  up  to, 
are  still  parts  of  our  noblest  tradition. 

Williams's  best  pages  illustrate  excellently  the  aesthetic  potentialities  of 
the  Puritan  literary  creed.  Even  when  he  is  enmeshed  in  theological 
technicalities  he  usually  keeps  his  style  alive  by  his  talent  for  salty  phrase, 
for  putting  arguments  in  dramatic  form,  and  for  imagery  which  often 
borders  on  the  poetic.  His  Key  into  the  Language  of  America  (1643)  is  a 
pioneer  treatise  on  Indian  linguistics  and  a  fresh  and  entertaining  picture 
of  Indian  life.  His  The  Bloudy  Tenent,  of  Persecution  for  Cause  of  Con- 
science (1644),  and  its  sequel,  The  Bloody  Tenent  yet  More  Bloody 
(London,  1652),  both  statements  of  his  tolerant  position,  are  forceful 
polemic  tracts. 

His  feeling  for  the  dramatic  comes  out  in  his  casting  of  some  of  The 
Bloudy  Tenent  into  dialogue  form  and  in  the  rhetoric  of  a  letter  written 
in  1670: 

Alas!  Sir,  in  calm  midnight  thoughts,  what  are  these  leaves  and  flowers, 
and  smoke  and  shadows,  and  dreams  of  earthly  nothings,  about  which  we 
poor  fools  and  children,  as  David  saith,  disquiet  ourselves  in  vain?  Alas? 
what  is  all  the  scuffling  of  this  world  for,  but,  come,  will  you  smoke  it?  What 
are  all  the  contentions  and  wars  of  this  world  about,  generally,  but  for  greater 
dishes  and  bowls  of  porridge?  9 

The  images  drawn  from  the  Bible  and  from  everyday  life,  and  the 
colloquial  tone,  made  for  realism;  Williams  also  used  them  on  occasion 
for  humorous  effect.  He  said  that  the  name  of  Prince  Rupert,  champion 
of  Charles  I,  sounded  in  New  England  like  a  "north-east  storm  of  snow." 
Men  were  grasshoppers  "hopping  and  skipping  from  branch  to  twig  in 
this  vale  of  tears."  But  he  understood  that  simple  diction  and  colloquial 
phrasing  need  not  exclude  dignity,  and  proved  it  in  such  aphorisms  as 
"Better  an  honorable  death  than  a  slave's  life,"  or  "I  fear  not  so  much  iron 
and  steel  as  the  cutting  of  our  throats  with  golden  knives."  10 

His  work  reveals  a  generous  Christian  idealist,  miscast  in  a  Puritan 
community  but  sharing  the  noblest  ardors  of  Puritanism.  "As  to  myself, 
in  endeavoring  after  your  temporal  and  spiritual  peace,  I  humbly  desire 
to  say,  if  I  perish,  I  perish.  It  is  but  a  shadow  vanished,  a  bubble  broke, 
a  dream  finished.  Eternity  will  pay  for  all."  1X 

8  Roger  Williams,  The  Bloudy  Tenent,  of  Persecution,  for  Cause  of  Conscience 
(n.p.,  1644),  reprinted  in  the  Narragansett  Club  edition  of  Writings  of  Roger 
Williams  (1866-74),  Vol.  3,  p.  3.  All  references  are  to  this  edition. 

9  Letter  to  Major  Mason,  June  22,  1670,  in  Writings,  Vol.  6,  pp.  343-344. 

10  Writings,  Vol.  6,  pp.  197-198,  159,  14-15. 
1 '  Writings,  Vol.  6,  p.  350. 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  43 

The  staple  literary  diet  of  colonial  New  England  was  the  sermon.  Every 
uneral,  every  election,  and  every  Sabbath  service  called  for  preaching. 
The  literature  of  the  pulpit  often  dealt  with  political,  military,  social,  and 
conomic  problems.  It  contained  passages  of  essay-like  writing,  bits  of 
iistory  and  biography,  and,  of  course,  careful  expository  treatments  of 
theological,  philosophic,  and  scientific  doctrine. 

The  sermons  ordinarily  followed  a  fixed  pattern.  The  preachers  began 
)V  "opening"  the  text,  "expounding  circumstances  and  context,  explaining 
ts  grammatical  meanings,  reducing  its  tropes  and  schemata  to  prose,  and 
netting  forth  its  logical  implications."  Its  teaching  was  then  plainly  an- 
nounced, and  the  minister  went  on  to  support  it  by  reasons  and  proofs. 
Thus  far  the  tone  was  that  of  accurate  and  logical  exposition,  but  the  third 
Lnd  last  part  of  the  sermon,  the  "use"  or  "application,"  called  for  more. 
The  doctrine  had  to  be  driven  home  to  its  readers  and  hearers  and  must 
pe  stated  in  terms  they  could  understand  and  relate  to  their  lives  and  so 
shaped  as  to  touch  their  hearts,  arouse; their  affections,  and  provoke  them 
to  feeling  and  action.  Here  was  the"  place  for  "flowers  of  speech"— 
exclamation,  interrogation,  apostrophe,  dialogue,  and  the  rest— but  even 
here  were  restraints.12  No  rhetorical  method  was  proper  unless  it  made  the 
doctrine  clearer,  and  none  was  to  be  used  which  might  make  the  audience 
concentrate  on  style  rather  than  substance  or  waken  sensual  passions.  The 
meat  not  the  sauce  was  the  thing;  those  who  wanted  their  palates  pleased 
by  "quaintnesse  of  language"  could  not  find  "cooks  to  their  minde"  among 
the  Puritans.13 

The  essential  soundness  of  the  best  Puritan  preaching  appears  plainly 
in  the  work  of  Thomas  Hooker  (1586-1647).  He  took  his  M.A.  at  Cam- 
bridge in  161 1,  continued  as  a  Fellow  of  Emmanuel  College  for  nine  years, 
and  then  preached  in  Anglican  pulpits  until  Archbishop  Laud  silenced 
him  for  nonconformity.  In  1630  he  escaped  to  Holland  and  in  1633  came 
to  A4assachusetts,  where  he  became  minister  at  Newtown,  now  Cam- 
bridge. Under  his  leadership  his  congregation  migrated  to  Hartford,  and 
he  became  the  virtual  monarch  of  Puritan  Connecticut.  Something  of  his 
robustly  independent  character  was  revealed  by  a  contemporary  who 
said  that  he  could  "put  a  King  in  his  Pocket;"  14  his  power  as  a  thinker 
is  testified  to  in  his  A  Survey  of  the  Summe  of  Church-Discipline  (Lon- 
don, 1648),  "a  complete  expression  not  merely  of  New  England  eccle- 
siastical theory  but  of  political  doctrine  and  of  the  philosophic  concepts 
of  law,  nature,  and  reason."  15  His  mastery  of  effective  simile,  his  sharp 
ear  for  the  sound  and  rhythmical  weight  of  words,  and  his  dramatic  sense, 

12  Perry  Miller,  The  New  England  Mind  (1939),  pp.  332»  347- 

13  Thomas  Hooker,  A  Survey  of  the  Summe  of  Church-Discipline  (London,  1648), 
preface. 

14  Cotton  Mather,  Magnalia  Christi  Americana  (London,  1702),  Book  3,  Part  1, 
Appendix,  section  20. 

15  Miller  and  Johnson,  The  Puritans,  p.  291. 


44  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

enabled  him  to  make  many  passages  in  his  sermons  emotionally  exciting  I 
and  imaginatively  evocative. 

He  believed  that  the  Puritan  stylistic  way  was  best  suited  to  the  needs  oil 
ordinary  men.  Why,  Hooker  asked,  should  "a  company  of  Gentlemen.1! 
Yeomen,  and  poore  women,  that  are  scarcely  able  to  know  their  A.  B.  CI 
.  .  .  have  a  Minister  to  speake  Latine,  Greeke,  and  Hebrew,  and  to  use  the 
Fathers?"  Not  understanding,  they  would  "sit  and  sleepe  in  their  sinnes,; 
and  goe  to  hell  hood-winckt,  never  awakened."  16  The  Ciceronian  prose- 
in  vogue  among  many  English  religious  writers  might  make  a  man  "Cicer- 
onianus  non  Christianus."  In  the  "wildernesse,"  Hooker  said,  "curiosity"-! 
care  for  inessential  stylistic  details- was  "not  studied."  It  was  better  there  to 
clothe  books  in  "a  homely  dresse  and  course  habit."  "Planters  if  they  can! 
provide  cloth  to  go  warm  . . .  leave  the  cutts  and  lace  to  those  that  study' 
to  go  fine."  "The  substance  and  solidity  of  the  frame  is  that  which  pleasethj 
the  builder;  it's  the  painter's  work  to  provide  varnish."  17 

Now  and  then  Hooker's  effect  depends  on  the  repetition  of  a  single 
word,  so  that  sound  and  sense  collaborate: 

If  mine  hands  were  all  of  love,  that  I  could  worke  nothing  but  love,  and  if 
mine  eyes  were  able  to  see  nothing  but  love,  and  my  minde  thinke  of  nothing 
but  love,  and  if  I  had  a  thousand  bodies,  it  were  all  too  little  to  love  that 
God  that  hath  unmeasurably  loved  me,  a  poor  sinfull  helhound.18 

Even  at  his  most  rhetorical,  however,  Hooker  is  never  far  from  the  earthy 
and  personal,  as  the  last  phrase  in  this  passage  shows. 

His  firm  faith  made  it  easy  for  him  to  dramatize  the  spiritual  life. 
He  uses  passages  of  dialogue  and  puts  bits  of  direct  speech  into  the  mouths 
of  God,  the  heart,  the  soul,  or  an  imagined  sinner  or  saint.  This  is  a  natural 
mode  of  expression  for  a  man  whose  vision  of  holiness  is  so  clear  that  its 
elements  take  on  for  him  physical  solidity  and  activity.  He  taught  his 
readers  to  see  man's  pilgrimage  toward  Heaven  or  Hell  as  an  all-absorbing 
dramatic  theme,  and  they  were  thrilled  by  his  words. 

His  successor  in  the  pulpit  at  Cambridge,  Thomas  Shepard  (1605-49), 
became  in  his  turn  one  of  the  most  celebrated  New  England  preachers. 
Nineteen  years  younger  than  Hooker  he  was  trained  at  Emmanuel  College 
and  was  deprived  of  his  Anglican  pulpit  by  Archbishop  Laud.  He  came 
to  iMassachusetts  in  1635  and  quickly  became  a  power  there.  His  con- 
temporaneous reputation  in  England  was  probably  greater  than  Hooker's; 
some  of  his  writing  was  translated  for  German  settlers  in  Pennsylvania 
in  1712;  Thomas  Prince,  the  historian,  and  Jonathan  Edwards,  the  greatest 

10  T.  Hooker,  The  Soules  Preparation  for  Christ  (London,  1632),  p.  66. 

17  T.  Hooker,  Church-Discipline,  preface. 

18  T.  Hooker,  "Spirituall  Love  and  Joy"  in  The  Soules  Im plantation  (London, 
1637),  PP-  179-^0.  For  the  same  device,  cf.  the  passage  on  mercy  from  Hooker's 
The  Soulc's  Vocation,  in  E.  C.  Stedman  and  E.  Al.  Hutchinson,  A  Library  of 
American  Literature  (1888),  Vol.  1,  p.  198. 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  45 

dghteenth-century  American  theologian,  both  admired  his  work;  and  his 
Writings  were  reprinted  in  Boston  in  1853.  In  Scotland  he  was  read  and 
^raised  as  late  as  191 2. 19 

His  tone  is  usually  more  subjective  than  Hooker's,  centered  on  his  own 
ipiritual  experience  and  emotion  and  expressive  of  his  half-mystic  absorp- 
:ion  in  the  divine  perfection.  Whether  he  writes  of  the  horrors  of  Hell 
Dr  the  ineffable  beauty  of  God,  he  justifies  the  epithet  "soul-melting," 
which  a  friend  applied  to  his  sermons  20-a  good  seventeenth-century 
phrase  for  "emotionally  evocative." 

He  wrote  of  time  that  it  was  "a  little  spring  or  river  which  runs  into 
eternity,'1  21  and  of  the  glory  of  the  Almighty:  "What  this  Glory  is,  no 
man  or  Angell  hath,  doth,  or  ever  shall  know;  their  cockle-shell  can  never 
comprehend  this  sea."  Of  the  peace  to  be  found  in  God:  "Here  is  all  light 
in  this  Sunne,  and  all  Water  in  this  Sea,  out  of  whom  as  out  of  a  Christall 
fountaine,  thou  shalt  drinke  downe  all  the  refined  sweetnesse  of  all 
Creatures  in  heaven  and  earth  for  ever  and  ever.  All  the  world  is  now 
seeking  and  tyring  out  themselves  for  rest,  here  only  it  can  be  found." 

The  understanding  of  divine  truth  required  emotion.  No  thumbing 
over  of  books,  however  diligent,  would  do.  As  Shepard  put  it,  following 
a  phrase  of  Hooker's,  "Jesus  Christ  is  not  got  with  a  wet  finger."  23  But 
passive  emotion  was  not  enough.  "If  Christ  might  be  bought  for  a  few 
cold  wishes  and  lazy  desires,  he  would  be  of  small  reckoning  amongst 
men,  who  would  say,  'lightly  come,  lightly  goe.'  "  24 

There  were  changes  in  the  manner  and  themes  of  the  sermons  as  time 
went  on.  The  original  rebellious  fervor  of  Puritanism  waned,  scientific 
discovery  and  Biblical  criticism  threatened  some  tenets  of  revealed  re- 
ligion, rationalism  and  deism  gained  ground,  and  the  graceful  but  tamer 
prose  of  the  late  seventeenth-century  English  preachers  and  of  the  early 
eighteenth-century  essayists  increasingly  influenced  New  England  di- 
vines. Dramatic  force  often  gave  way  to  urbane  persuasiveness.  The  formal 
structure  of  the  older  sermons  survived,  but  there  was  a  tendency  to 
mask  it  by  easy  transitions  between  the  divisions.  Daring  metaphors  were 
replaced  by  commonplace  or  "dead"  ones.  The  similes  were  less  redolent 
of  homely  life  and  more  conventional  or  bookish  and  were  often  so  care- 
fully explained  that  their  only  appeal  was  to  the  coolly  rational  mind  and 
not  to  the  imagination. 

As  Puritanism  became  in  New  England  a  traditional  orthodoxy,  it  was 

^Babette  M.  Levy,  Preaching  in  the  First  Half  Century  of  New  England  History 
(1945),  pp.  144-145,  161-162,  167-168. 

20  T.  Shepard,  Works,  ed.  John  Albro    (1853),  Vol.  2,  p.   10. 

21  T.  Shepard,  The  Parable  of  the  Ten  Virgins  (London,  1660),  Part  2,  p.  48. 

22  T.  Shepard,  The  Sincere  Convert  (London,  1 641),  pp.  16,  19-20.  References  are 
to  this  edition. 

23  Sincere  Convert,  p.    144;  cf.  the  quotation  from    Hooker   in   Levy,   Preaching, 
p.  133. 

24  Sincere  Convert,  pp.  144-145. 


46  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

often  placidly  accepted  as  a  matter  of  convention  by  those  who  no  longe 
felt  any  emotional  need  for  it.  The  pulpiteers  often  lapsed  into  querulou 
complaints  about  the  lukewarmness  of  their  flocks,  repetitious  Jeremiad 
against  a  backsliding  people,  or  arguments  on  points  of  church  govern- 
ment which  they  pressed  apparently  under  the  delusion  that  even  wher 
the  spirit  had  gone  the  churches  could  be  saved  by  patching  up  theii 
formal  system.  The  emotional  robustness  of  the  early  sermons  too  ofter 
disappeared,  leaving  room  for  the  kind  of  sentimentality  which  result? 
when  a  writer  tries  to  arouse  in  his  readers  emotions  he  cannot  feel  him- 
self. Only  a  few  divines  kept  the  old  flame  ablaze  and  wrote  with  the  in- 
tellectual and  stylistic  energy  of  the  founding  fathers. 

Although  the  sermon  was  the  most  popular  literary  form,  the  colonia 
New  England  writers  used  in  their  work  most  of  the  literary  types 
then  in  vogue  in  England,  except  the  full-fledged  novel  and  tale.  The 
drama,  as  we  know  it,  was  unrepresented  also,  both  because  of  the  Puritan 
prejudice  against  the  stage  and  because  of  the  difficulty  of  theatrical 
production  in  colonial  conditions.  A  few  writings  like  Roger  Williams' 
Bloudy  T event  were  written  as  dialogues;  some  of  the  preachers  used  the 
same  device;  a  chapter  in  Edward  Holyoke's  The  Doctrine  of  Life:  or  of 
Man's  Redemption  was  "framed  by  way  of  Dialogue  between  King 
Solomon,  and  Tirzana  the  Queen"; 25  and  Edward  Taylor,  the  best  of 
New  England's  early  poets,  showed  a  taste  for  dramatic  structure.  But  for 
the  Puritans'  purposes  drama  was  obviously  less  useful  than  other  kinds! 
of  writing. 

For  similar  reasons  there  was  little  prose  fiction  in  colonial  New  Eng- 
land. The  Puritans  relished  good  storytelling;  their  prejudice  was  against 
the  waste  of  time  in  relatively  useless  reading  and  against  books  which 
might  corrupt  good  morals.  Cotton  Mather  in  1726  advised  young  candi- 
dates for  the  ministry  to  lay  up  "an  Inexhaustible  Store  of  Stories"  and 
to  acquire  "the  Skill  of  telling  them  Handsomely,  and  with  a  Deliberate, 
Expressive,  Unstumbling  Brevity."  They  could  be  used  "on  many  Oc- 
casions," to  capture  sympathetic  attention  and  as  "ivitty  Introductions" 
for  serious  appeals.  But  they  were  never  to  "degenerate  into  anv  unbe- 
coming Levity"  and  must  always  lead  up  to  the  uPro  fit  able"  and  "Grace- 
fully Terminate  in  the  most  Serious  Discourse,  and  if  it  may  be,  in  the 
Inculcation  and  Insinuation  of  some  serious  Maxim . . .  Good  for  the  Use 
of  Edifying"  26  The  Bible  was  full  of  good  stories  told  forTgood  ends;  so 
were  many  histories.  Bunyan's  Pilgr'nit's  Progress,  reprinted  in  Boston  in 
1 68 1  and  1706,  was  welcome,  since  it  used  allegory  to  instil  Christian 
doctrine. 

25  Edward  Holvoke,  The  Doctrine  of  Life ...  (London,  1658),  p.  316. 
2C  C.  Mather,  Manuductio  ad  Ministerium,  cd.  T.  J.  Holmes  and  K.  B.  Murdock 
(1938),  pp.  145-146. 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  47 

In  17 15  there  was  issued  in  Boston  a  similar  allegory  of  colonial  author- 
ship, The  History  of  the  Kingdom  of  Basaruah  -'  by  Joseph  Morgan 
(b.1671).  He  was  born  in  Connecticut  and  preached  there,  in  West- 
I  Chester  County,  New  York,  and  in  New  Jersey.  He  published  a  good 
deal  but  the  History  is  the  only  one  of  his  books  which  has  any  literary 
interest  to-day.  He  did  not  equal  Bunyan,  but  he  did  work  out  a  systematic 
and  readable  allegory  of  the  basic  Congregational  view  of  the  fall  and  re- 
demption of  man.  It  must  have  been  welcome  to  Puritan  children  and 
their  elders  who  craved  sugar-coating  for  doctrinal  pills. 

The  devout  found  other  stories  which  could  be  read  with  a  clear  con- 
science in  books  of  "remarkable  providences."  Good  Christians  of  all 
sects  agreed  in  believing  that  God  manifested  himself  directly  in  every 
event  and  controlled  the  world  by  his  "providence."  Therefore  any  hap- 
pening could  be  read  as  a  revelation  of  his  will.  The  more  unusual  the  oc- 
currence, the  more  worthy  of  notice— "remarkable"— it  was,  since  the 
more  strikingly  it  displayed  God's  vigilant  omnipotence.  Naturally,  many 
collections  of  "providences"  were  published  in  England,  and  some  of 
them  wrere  sold  in  the  Puritan  colonies.  The  settlers  interlarded  their 
writings  with  examples  of  "providences"  and  printed  a  few  collections 
of  their  own.  "Remarkable"  instances  of  God's  providential  acts  could 
be  drawn  from  histories  or  from  tales,  presumably  true,  told  by  classic 
authors,  and  the  earlier  "providence"  books  relied  heavily  on  such  sources. 
Or,  in  keeping  with  an  increasing  interest  in  scientific  method,  writers 
might  turn  to  direct  observation  and  well-attested  reports  of  current 
events. 

In  New  England  the  literature  of  "providences"  was  an  aid  in  the 
Puritans'  campaign  to  prove  that  they  were  God's  chosen  people.  Tales 
of  God's  providential  interpositions  on  their  behalf  could  be  used  to  whip 
up  the  sluggish  by  showing  them  how  the  godly  pioneers  had  been  favored 
and  how  backsliders  must  fear  condign  penalties  from  on  high. 

Such  books  served  still  another  purpose  by  giving  the  New  Englander 
a  chance  to  satisfy  his  scientific  impulses.  To  observe  and  record  events 
and  to  derive  conclusions  from  them  was  an  elementary  scientific  process. 
If  it  could  be  demonstrated  that  God's  treatment  of  saints  and  sinners 
followed  fixed  moral  principles,  there  was  rational  proof  of  their  right- 
eousness. The  day  of  miracles  was  past,  but  to  study  God's  manipulation 
of  natural  laws  might  enable  men  to  understand  the  divine  purpose  and 
will. 

The  most  interesting  New  England  collection  of  "providences"  was 
An  Essay  for  the  Recording  of  Illustrious  Providences  (Boston,  1684)  by 
Increase  Mather  (1639-172 3).  It  was  preceded  by  its  author's  The  Doc- 
trine of  Divine  Providence  (Boston,  1684)  which  maintained  that  "the 
God   of  Heaven  has   an  over-ruling  hand   of  Providence  in   whatever 

27  Reprinted  (Cambridge,  1946),  ed.  Richard  Schlatter. 


48  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

cometh  to  Pass  in  this  world"  2S  and  that  all  God's  works  are  worth  con-  j 
sidering  as  examples  of  his  providential  actions.  The  Essay  was  essentially 
a  casebook  to  prove  this  theory.   Most  of  it  is  given  to  accounts   of 
happenings  in  New  England— storms,  "Sea  Deliverances,"  narrow  escapes 
from  all  sorts  of  perils,  apparently  supernatural  happenings,  strange  adven-  j 
tures  of  the  deaf  and  dumb— which  Mather  collected  by  inquiries  sent  to 
presumably  trustworthy  witnesses  and  put  together  with  discussions  of  j 
witchcraft,  the  nature  of  lightning  and  of  magnetism,  and  several  passages  \ 
exploding  popular  superstitions.  Mather  was  trying  to  follow  a  scientific 
method  and  deeply  concerned  with  the  study  of  scientific  topics  as  a 
useful  adjunct  to  theology. 

The  stylistic  virtues  of  the  Essay  are  inconspicuous,  but  its  content  | 
casts  much  light  on  Puritan  thought.  In  its  use  of  contemporary  observa- 
tion  rather  than  testimony  from  the  classics  of  history  it  was  ahead  of 
most  "providence"  books  of  its  time,  English  or  American.  In  its  eager- 
ness to  explore  natural  phenomena  in  order  to  understand  God  and  its 
effort  to  establish  abstract  doctrine  by  concrete  evidence,  it  was  rep- 
resentative of  a  way  of  thinking,  fostered  by  the  Puritan  emphasis  on 
logical  analysis  of  the  order  of  creation  and  Puritan  confidence  in  God's 
organizing  power,  which  helped  to  establish  both  the  premises  and  the 
methods  of  much  later  and  more  advanced  scientific  thought. 

Increase  Mather  belonged  to  a  family  which  produced  a  succession  of 
New  England  scholars,  ministers,  and  writers.  His  father,  Richard,  came 
here  in  1635  and  as  a  minister  in  Dorchester  preached  and  wrote  his  way 
to  local  fame.  Increase  reached  greater  heights  as  minister  of  one  of  the 
largest  churches  in  Boston,  a  voluminous  writer  and  forceful  preacher, 
president  of  Harvard  College  for  a  time,  and  the  agent  of  the  colonists 
in  London,  who  obtained  for  them  the  royal  charter  of  1691.  He  was  a 
political  power  for  years  as  well  as  one  of  the  two  or  three  unquestioned 
rulers  of  the  church.  He  was  a  diligent  scholar  and  book-collector,  widely 
read  in  many  fields,  including  science,  and  insatiably  curious  about  many 
intellectual  concerns  of  his  day. 

His  son,  Cotton  (1663-1728),  is  the  only  one  of  the  Mather  line  who 
has  major  importance  in  literary  history.  Richard  and  Increase  wrote 
competently  and  well,  in  the  standard  Puritan  fashion  of  "plain"  prose. 
Cotton,  in  the  best  of  his  more  than  four  hundred  and  fifty  books  and 
pamphlets,  proved  himself  a  stylist  of  distinguished  quality.  He  used  his 
talents  on  all  kinds  of  writing  and  touched  on  all  sorts  of  subjects.  He 
was,  moreover,  a  conscious  craftsman,  interested  in  problems  of  style  and 
literary  theory  and  wrote  enough  about  them  to  deserve  a  niche  in  the 
history  of  American  criticism. 

Mather  was  graduated  from  Harvard  when  he  was  fifteen.  In  1681  he 
took  his  Master's  degree  and  after  assisting  his  father  at  the  Second  Church 

28  I.  Mather,  "The  Doctrine  of  Divine  Providence,'1  title  of  Chapter  I. 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  49 

in  Boston  was  formally  ordained  as  one  of  its  two  ministers  in  1685.  He 
continued  in  office  until  his  death  in  1728,  preaching,  mixing  into  every 
theological  squabble  of  the  time,  and  determinedly  championing  the 
cause  of  Congregationalism  and  ministerial  authority.  He  interested  him- 
self in  every  reform  movement  which  seemed  to  him  useful  for  New 
England.  He  read  widely  and  corresponded  with  such  foreign  scholars 
as  William  Whiston,  the  philosopher  and  divine,  August  Hermann 
Francke,  the  German  educator  and  philanthropist,  Sir  Richard  Black- 
more,  the  once  popular  poet,  and  Dr.  John  Woodward,  the  geologist  and 
physician.  The  University  of  Glasgow  gave  him  an  honorary  degree  and 
he  was  elected  to  the  Royal  Society  of  London,  an  honor  granted  to 
few  American  colonists.  Neurotic,  irritable,  vain,  and  ambitious  for  fame 
in  spite  of  his  constant  profession  of  humility,  he  was  in  many  ways  an 
unlovely  character,  but  the  testimony  of  his  contemporaries  suggests  that 
in  their  eyes  his  startling  abilities  outweighed  his  defects.  Their  praise 
centered  on  his  vast  reading,  "his  Wit  and  Fancy,  his  Invention,  his 
Quickness  of  thought,  and  ready  Apprehension,"  29  and  on  his  exceptional 
diligence.  His  son  declared  that  in  17 14  Mather's  reputation  was  inter- 
national—"I  cou'd  not  but  admire  to  what  Extent  his  Fame  had  reached."  30 
His  library  was  "the  Glory  of  New-England,  if t not  of  all  America,"31 
containing  by  1700  nearly  three  thousand  volumes. 

There  are  two  Cotton  Mathers— one  the  actual  man  and  the  other  the 
figure  of  legend,  the  starched,  grim,  and  cruel  bigot  who  has  been  used 
by  romancers,  some  of  them  professedly  historians,  as  a  stalking-horse  for 
the  supposed  vices  of  Puritanism.  Mather  had  his  full  share  of  faults.  He 
was  by  our  standards  intolerant,  but  in  his  later  life  less  so  than  most 
of  his  colleagues.  He  failed  to  realize  that  his  investigations  of  supposed 
witches  might  stir  up  popular  hysteria  of  the  sort  which  led  in  1692  to 
the  tragic  persecution  of  innocent  New  Englanders  as  agents  of  Satan.  On 
the  other  hand  he  joined  his  father,  William  Brattle,  and  a  considerable 
group  of  ministers  in  urging  the  judges  to  follow  rules  of  evidence  which 
would  have  been  more  favorable  to  the  accused  "witches"  than  those 
which  the  court  accepted  from  English  precedents.  He  had  real  scientific 
acumen,  as  the  Royal  Society  recognized,  and  although  he  was  given  to 
petty  pride,  the  major  concern  of  his  life  was  the  teaching  of  Christian 
morals  and  the  exercise  of  the  Christian  virtues.  The  source  of  his  im- 
mense energy  was  passionate  faith. 

In  literary  history,  too,  he  has  been  sometimes  turned  into  a  mythical 
figure  with  little  reference  to  what  he  really  was.  Because  he  chose  to 
use  on  occasion  a  style  which  now  seems  archaic  and  involved,  because 

29  Benjamin  Colman,  The  Holy  Walk  and  Glorious  Translation  .. .  (Boston,  1728), 
p.  24. 

3 u  Samuel  Mather,  Life  of  Cotton  Mather  (Boston,  1729),  preface. 

31  Jolm  Dunton's  Letters  from  New-E?2gland,  ed.  W.  H.  Whitmore  (Boston,  1867), 
p.  75  (written  about  1686). 


5o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

some  of  his  work  shows  signs  of  careless  haste,  and  because  he  wrote  sc 
much,  he  has  been  held  up  as  a  type  of  the  crabbed  and  pedantic  stylist, 
the  superficial  charlatan  writing  only  to  display  himself.  Actually  he 
wrote  more  than  one  style,  choosing  his  rhetorical  conventions  in  ac-| 
cordance  with  their  appropriateness  for  his  material;  the  mistakes  com- 
monly cited  against  him  were  made  by  his  printers  in  a  book  for  which| 
he  had  no  chance  to  read  proofs;  and  few  of  his  works  can  have  been! 
produced  simply  to  satisfy  his  vanity.  No  sober  critic  can  exalt  Cotton; 
Mather  to  a  place  among  the  great  literary  artists,  but  neither  can  he  be 
justly  disposed  of  as  anything  but  a  highly  talented  writer,  with  genuine) 
)power  and  imaginative  vigor,  who  belongs  among  the  better  authors  ofj 
Tns  century,  English  or  American. 

Two  of  his  most  important  books  are  to  be  considered  later;  his  sermons) 
conform  in  general  to  the  Puritan  pattern  already  illustrated  and  their! 
qualities  of  style  appear  in  his  other  writings.  All  there  is  need  for  here 
is  a  brief  glance  at  some  of  his  remarks  on  literary  criticism,  his  Political 
Fables,  and  his  "spiritualizing"  essays. 

His  most  illuminating  discussion  of  style  is  in  his  Mamiductio  ad  Min- 
isterium  (Boston,  1726). 32  His  central  point  is  that  "Every  Man  will  have 
his  own  Style,  which  will  distinguish  him  as  much  as  his  Gate  [i.e.  Gait]." 
He  attacks  the  critics  of  the  time,  declaring  that  they  agreed  only  in  ad- 
vocating "Jejune  and  Empty  Pages,  without  such  Touches  of  Erudi- 
tion ...  as  may  make . . .  Discourses  less  Tedious,  and  more  Enriching,  to 
the  mind  of  him  that  peruses  them."  This,  and  Mather's  scorn  for  those 
who  worshipped  literary  "Fashion  and  Humour"  and  thought  "the  Club 
at  their  Coffee-House"  was  "All  the  World,"  came  from  the  fact  that  he 
had  chosen  for  most  of  his  work  a  prose  which  was  outmoded  and  dis- 
paraged in  1726.  He  described  his  way  of  writing  as  one  in  which 

there  is  not  only  a  Vigour  sensible  in  every  Sentence,  but  the  Paragraph  is 
embellished  with  Profitable  References, . . .  Formal  and  Painful  Quotations 
are  not  studied;  vet  all  that  could  be  learnt  from  them  is  insinuated.  The 
Writer  pretends  not  unto  Reading,  yet ...  his  Composures  are  . . .  stuck  with 
as  many  Jewels,  as  the  Gown  of  a  Russian  Embassador. 

To  Mather  it  seemed  contrary  to  "Indisputable  Reason"  that  a  book 
should  ever  be  praised  for  "saying  of  little;  That  the  less  one  has  for  his 
Money  in  a  Book,  'tis  really  the  more  Valuable  for  it;  and  that  the  less 
one  is  instructed  .  . .  and  the  less  of  Substantial  Matter  one  has"  the  better. 
But  richness  of  allusion,  reference,  and  quotation,  copiousness  of  illustra- 
tive material,  and  all  the  qualities  of  the  "Massy  Way  of  Writing"  which 
Mather  argued  for,  were  not  to  interfere  with  the  "Easy  Conveyance"  of 
ideas.  In  his  pages  they  did  not.  The  central  thread  of  his  prose  is  almost 
always  straight  and  clear.  His  imagery,  whether  bookish  or  homely,  usu- 

•*2  Manuductio,  ed.  Holmes  and  Murdock,  pp.  44-46. 


PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS  51 

ally  illuminates  his  meaning;  his  "flowers"  of  style  are  sometimes  rhetori- 
cally complex  but  almost  never  at  the  expense  of  clarity. 

He  was  not  a  slave  to  the  "Massy"  style,  and  his  Political  Fables  are  ex- 
cellent examples  of  his  plainer  vein.  They  were  short  allegories,  written 
and  circulated  in  manuscript  to  defend  the  new  charter  which  Increase 
Mather,  as  agent  for  Massachusetts  in  London,  had  accepted  and  brought 
home  in  1692.  The  characters  are  beasts,  birds,  and  Jupiter,  Orpheus, 
Janus,  and  Mercury.  Each  story  was  manipulated  so  that  the  "moral" 
justified  the  Mathers'  support  of  the  new  charter.  The  argument  is  put 
with  creditable  ingenuity;  the  style  could  not  have  offended  the  most 
captious  critic  of  1692. 

Alather  had  a  special  taste  for  the  "spiritualizing"  essay.  Its  technique 
was  simple.  The  pious  writer  took  an  observed  object  or  an  experience, 
made  it  into  an  allegory  or  metaphor,  and  wrenched  some  sort  of  moral 
from  it.  The  process  was  different  from  that  used  by  preachers  and  ex- 
positors who  centered  on  the  doctrine  and  found  symbols  to  illustrate  its 
meaning,  but  once  the  fashion  of  "spiritualizing"  was  set  it  flourished. 
Mather  said  "To  fetch  excellent,  and  enriching  Instructions  out  of  the 
Creatures  that  surround  us,  is .  .  .  one  of  the  Highest  Uses  that  we  can  put 
them  unto."  It  developed,  he  thought,  both  "Spirituality"  and  "Ingenu- 
ity." He  certainly  did  not  lack  for  ingenuity.  He  looked  at  the  andirons 
on  his  hearth  and  wrote: 

There  was  once  a  Prince  in  the  English  Nation,  concerning  whom  it  was 
thought  bv  some,  that  some  words  which  he  spoke,  hastened  upon  him  the 
Fate  that  made  him  Speechless . . .  Being  invited  unto  a  Merchants  House, 
where  he  saw  a  great  pair  of  Brass  And  Irons,  he  had  this  Reflection  thereupon. 
These  gaudy  Appearances  of  shining  Brass,  are  not  the  Pillars  that  hold  up 
the  Fire;  (as  your  Bishops  and  your  Doctors  are  not:)  but  they  are  the  little 
Creepers  of  Iron  which  bear  up  the  Fire.  So,  it  is  not  your  Prelates  which 
uphold  the  Church,  but  it  is  your  inferior  Ministers,  which  take  pains  in  their 

places,  that  uphold  it If  any  be  offended  at  this  Reflection  of  Prince  Henry 

about  the  Fire,  their  Offence  will  signify  little  to  his  Ashes. 

All  the  Remark  that  I  shall  make  upon  it,  is  This.  Those  And  Irons  that 
are  most  Serviceable,  are  most  Honourable;  not  those  that  are  most  Gaudy, 
and  finished  with  various  Ornaments,  for  nothing  but  an  useless  Ostentation. 
It  is  not  unlikely,  That  the  most  Useful  men  in  the  Church  of  our  Lord,  may 
not  be  those  that  are  brighten'd  and  burnish'd  with  fine  Titles,  and  have  most 
of  Pomp  to  set  them  off.  It  may  be,  they  have  rather  been  such  as  have  said, 
Odi  istos  Titulos.  Let  my  Temper,  and  my  Station  be  such  as  may  do  most 
of  Service,  tho'  I  should  have  less  Notice  taken  of  me; . . .  yea,  though  I  must 
also  therein  have  an  heavy  Burden  lying  on  me;  as  on  the  Brand  Irons.  It  is 
possible,  the  Work  which  I  have  to  do  for  the  Church  of  God,  may  oblige 
me  to  a  very  Hot  place:  Lord,  strengthen  me  to  bear  the  Heat  of  all  my 
Temptations,  till  the  Times  of  Cooling  do  come!  It  is  possible  also,  That  the 
Name  of  Dogs  may  be  thought  good   enough  to  be  bestow'd  upon  those, 


52  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

who  are  to  do  this  Work.  It's  no  matter,  if  we  do  so  much  Good,  that  men  I! 
can't  easily  do  well  without  us.33 

The  playing  with  words— the  prince's  speaking  makes  him  speechless,  j 
the  coupling  of  "ashes"  and  "fire"  at  the  end  of  the  first  paragraph,  and 
the  punning  on  "dogs"  (andirons  were  "firedogs")  —  is  characteristic  of 
Mather's  rhetoric  when  he  is  "fetching  out"  spiritual  significance  from 
common  things.  Too  often  it  seems  a  rhetorical  ado  about  nothing,  and  ! 
the  "spiritualizations"  are  hard  to  read  because  they  try  to  provoke 
thought  and  emotion  which  their  material,  however  ingeniously  used, 
will  not  justify.  They  represent  a  kind  of  sentimental  decadence  in  re- 
ligious writing.  They  became  popular  in  NewT  England  only  after  1660 
and  were  "a  profound  symptom  of  the  times"  in  which  science  so  em- 
phasized physical  fact  that  "a  languid  generation,  no  longer  capable  of 
creating  its  images"  became  "enslaved  to  the  images  given  arbitrarily  in 
experience."  34 

'TVs  a  stylist,  an  experimenter  in  many  literary  forms,  and  as  an  ex- 
ponent of  some  of  the  most  enlightened  thought  of  early  eighteenth- 
century  America,  Mather  still  deserves  to  be  read.  His  best  work  bears 
the  hallmark  of  a  writer  who,  whatever  his  shortcomings,  at  least  tried 
hard  for  mastery  in  prose.  That  he  succeeded  as  often  as  he  did  is  evi- 
dence of  the  solidity  of  the  literary  foundations  laid  in  early  New  Eng- 
land. 

Literary  standards  and  intellectual  habits  were  fixed  there  very  early, 
and  it  would  have  been  strange  if  none  of  them  had  survived.  Whether 
their  influence  has  been  good  or  bad  may  be  argued  and  it  is  not  always 
easy  to  decide  just  what  forms  they  took  in  later  days  under  new  con- 
ditions. But  it  is  plain  that  no  historical  judgment  of  America's  literary 
growth  can  be  made  without  taking  the  Puritans  into  account.  Even  the 
critic  who  sees  today  nothing  worth  saving  in  their  work  may  find 
knowledge  of  it  useful  as  a  help  to  understanding  American  authors,  from 
Franklin  and  Cooper  to  Dreiser  and  James,  or  from  Bryant  and  Poe  to 
Frost  and  Eliot. 

33  C.  Mather,  Christiamis  per  I  gnem ..  .Devout  and  Useful  Meditations  Fetched 
out  of  the  Fire  by  a  Christian  in  a  Cold  Season  (Boston,  1702),  pp.  n-12,  80. 

:!4  P.  Miller,  Intro,  in  Jonathan  Edwards,  Images  or  Shadows  of  Divine  Things 
(New  Haven,  Yale  University  Press,  1948),  p.  16. 


Chapter  4 


POETS  AND  POETASTERS 

Thomas  Shepard,  in  a  passage  on  the  glory  of  God,  wrote:  "Who  set 
those  Candles,  those  torches  of  heaven  on  the  Table?  Who  hung  out  those 
lanthornes  in  heaven  to  enlighten  a  darke  world?  .  . .  Who  sends  the  Sun 
post  from  one  end  of  heaven  to  the  other. . .  ?"  * 

More  than  a  half -century  later,  Edward  Taylor,  the  best  poet  of  colonial 
New  England  celebrated  the  same  theme:  * 

Infinity,  when  all  things  it  beheld, 
In  Nothing,  and  of  Nothing  all  did  build, 
Upon  what  Base  was  fixt  the  Lath,  wherein 
He  turn'd  this  Globe,  and  riggalld  it  so  trim? 
Who  blew  the  Bellows  of  his  Furnace  Vast? 
Or  held  the  Mould  wherein  the  world  was  Cast? 
Who  laid  its  Corner  Stone?  Or  whose  Command? 
Where  stand  the  Pillars  upon  which  it  stands? 
Who  Lac'de  and  Fillitted  the  earth  so  fine, 
With  Rivers  like  green  Ribbons  Smaragdine? 
Who  made  the  Sea's  its  Selvedge,  and  it  locks 
Like  a  Quilt  Ball  within  a  Silver  Box? 
Who  Spread  its  Canopy?  Or  Curtains  Spun? 
Who  in  this  Bowling  Alley  bowld  the  Sun? 
Who  made  it  always  when  it  rises  set: 
To  go  at  once  both  down,  and  up  to  get? 
Who  th'  Curtain  rods  made  for  this  Tapistry? 
Who  hung  the  twinckling  Lanthorns  in  the  Sky? 
Who?  who  did  this?  or  who  is  he?  Why,  know 
It's  Onely  Might  Almighty  this  did  doe.2 

1  T.  Shepard,  The  Sincere  Convert  (London,  1641),  p.  4. 

2  The  Poetical  JVorks  of  Edward  Taylor,  ed.  Thomas  H.  Johnson.  (Copyright, 
1939,  Rockland  Editions.  Copyright,  1943,  Princeton  University  Press),  Preface  to 
"Gods  Determinations,"  p.  31. 

53 


54  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 


Both  passages  express  the  excitement  the  Puritans  felt  in  contemplating! 
the  wonders  of  God  in  the  creation,  but  the  second  goes  far  beyond  the 
first  in  imagination  and  demands  poetic  form  to  carry  it.  There'  is  a  vasi| 
difference  between  a  God  who  sends  the  sun  from  one  end  of  Heaver 
to  the  other  like  a  messenger  and  the  God  who  rolls  the  sun  into  thd 
universe  with  the  easy  sweep  of  a  practised  bowler.  Taylor's  image  is  of| 
a  Creator  so  infinitely  powerful  that  the  sun  is  a  toy  and  the  universe  his 
playground. 

The  Puritans  printed  more  prose  than  verse  because  their  first  object! 
was  to  clarify  the  truth  and  their  audience  found  straightforward  prose 
easy  to  grasp.  But  the  more  absorbed  they  became  in  the  beauty  of  the; 
divine  plan  and  in  the  drama  of  their  perilous  walk  with  God,  the  more 
they  needed  poetry.  They  wrote  an  amazing  amount  of  it,  although 
comparatively  little  was  published.  That  they  did  so,  knowing  that  their] 
poems  were  likely  to  sleep  in  manuscript,  proves  their  deep  need  for  ade- 
quate artistic  expression  of  their  religious  feeling. 

Outside  of  New  England  few  American  poems  saw  the  light  in  the 
first  century  of  settlement;  other  types  of  writing  served  a  more  im-i 
mediately  practical  purpose.  Richard  Rich  (fl.  1610),  a  [Virginia  pioneer, 
and  "a  soldier,  blunt  and  plaine,"  did  print  in  London  in  "1610  a  ballad 
called  Neives  from  Virginia,  "to  feede"  his  "owne  humour,"  3  but  its 
content  is  just  that  of  the  prose  pamphlets  of  travel  and  observation  which 
were  published  to  encourage  colonists  and  investors.  It  has  no  more 
literary  value  than  hundreds  of  other  topical  ballads  of  its  time.  In  1676 
the  death  of  Nathaniel  Bacon,  the  leader  of  a  revolt  against  Governor 
Berkeley,  was  made  the  subject  of  a  distinguished  epitaph,  said  to  have 
been  written  "by  his  Man,"  It  begins: 

Death  why  soe  crewill!  what  no  other  way 
To  manifest  thy  splleene,  but  thus  to  slay 
Our  hopes  of  safety;  liberty,  our  all, 
Which,  through  thy  tyrany,  with  him  must  fall 
To  its  late  caoss?  Had  thy  rigid  force 
Bin  delt  by  retale,  and  not  thus  in  gross 
Grief  had  bin  silent:  Now  wee  must  complaine 
Since  thou,  in  him,  hast  more  then  thousand  slane 
Whose  lives  and  safetys  did  so  much  depend 
On  him,  there  lif;  with  him  there  lives  must  end.1 

The  poem  keeps  the  same  dignified  tone  and  technical  competence 
throughout.  Sixty  years  later  a  little  book  of  Poems  on  Several  Occasions 
(Williamsburg,  Va.,  1736)  by  an  anonymous  "Gentleman  of  Virginia" 
(possibly  William  Dawson,  1705-52),  showed  the  same  ease  in  following 

3R.  Rich,  Newes  from  Virginia,  ed.  J.  O.  Halliwell   (1865),  p.  10. 
4  A  Narrative  of  the  Indian  and  Civil  Wars  in   Virginia,  In  the  Years  161$  and 
1676,  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force  (reprint  edition,  1947),  Vol.  1,  no.  11,  p.  29. 


POETS  AND  POETASTERS  55 

English  literary  modes  that  Byrd's  "histories"  did  in  prose.  From  Maryland 
came  a  long  verse  satire,  The  Sot-Weed  Factor:  or,  a  Voyage  to  Mary- 
land (London,  1708),  which  is  vigorous  and  abusive  and  at  times  genuinely 
comic  or  even  witty.  Its  author,  whose  dates  are  uncertain,  called  himself 
"Ebenezer  Cook,  Gentleman"  and  posed  as  an  Englishman  forced  to  seek 
his  fortune  in  Maryland.  The  ship  that  took  him  over  was,  he  said, 
"freighted  with  fools,"  and  he  ends  his  poem  with  a  curse  on  the  colonists. 
The  last  couplet  is: 

May   wrath   Divine   then   lay   these    Regions   wast, 
Where  no  Man's  Faithful,  nor  a  Woman  chast/' 

i Perhaps  Cook  was  only  a  temporary  sojourner  in  Maryland;  perhaps 
he  was  an  actual  colonist  with  a  grievance;  in  any  case  his  poem  obviously 
sprang  from  New  World  experience.  That  it  was  popular  in  England  is 
suggested  by  the  fact  that  in  1730  a  sequel  was  printed,  Sotweed  Redi- 
vivus:  or  The  Planters  Looking-Glass,  by  "E.  C.  Gent,"  who  may  or  may 
not  have  been  the  author  of  the  first  satire  and  of  The  Maryland  Muse 
(Annapolis,  1731),  which  contained  a  revised  version  of  it  as  well  as 
some  lines  on  Bacon's  rebellion.6  The  Sot-Weed  Factor  had  "an  abundance 
of  filth  and  scurrility,  but . . .  wit  besides";  Sotweed  Redivivus  "lacks  only 
the  wit."  7 

Most  of  the  other  colonial  versifiers  outside  of  New  England  dealt  in 
rhymes  on  current  events  or  in  flat  imitations  of  English  poetry.  Here 
and  there,  however,  were  lines  which  gave  hints  of  real  talent-notably  in 
Juvenile  Poems  on  Various  Subjects  (Philadelphia,  1765),  by  the  gifted 
young  Pennsylvanian,  Thomas  Godfrey,  and  the  Philosophic  Solitude 
(1747)  of  William  Livingston  (1723-90),  a  lawyer  and  statesman  who, 
fresh  from  Yale,  wrote  Popean  couplets  praising  "a  Rural  Life." 

In  Puritan  New  England  poetry  was  plenty.  The  awe  with  which  the 
Puritans  contemplated  God,  their  desire  for  worship,  their  mystic  sense 
of  divine  grace,  and  their  understanding  of  the  beauty  of  holiness  and 
the  heroic  quality  of  man's  quest  for  Heaven,  were  traditional  artistic 
themes.  Local  patriotism  and  the  desire  to  correct  colonial  vices  and 
praise  colonial  heroes  were  incentives  to  verse  in  all  the  settlements,  but 
the  religious  enthusiasm  of  New  England  made  its  poetic  soil  especially 
fertile.  The  Puritans,  because  of  their  religious  and  intellectual  differences 
from  the  mother  country,  were  not  content  with  the  work  of  Anglicans 
and  Catholics.  They  condemned  "Conversation  with  Muses  that  are  no 
better  than  Harlots  . . .  which  . . .  excite  and  foment  Impure  Flames",  and 

5  Md.  Hist.  Soc.  Fund  Pub.,  no.  36  (1900),  p.  31.  "Sot-weed"  was,  of  course,  tobacco. 

«  Cf.  James  T.  Pole,  "Ebenezer  Cook  and  The  Maryland  Muse"  in  Amer.  U'VoL 
3  (Nov.,  193 1),  pp.  296-302;  and  "The  Maryland  Muse,"  ed.  Lawrence  Wroth, 
Amer.   Antiq.   Soc.   Proc,   Vol.   44    (1934)*   PP-    267"335-  . 

7  Moses   C.   Tyler,   A   History   of  American   Literature,    1607-1765    (1878;,    vol. 

2,  p.  260. 


56  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

they  despised  "Madmen"  and  "unclean  Spirits"  like  Samuel  Butler,  Thomas 
Brown,  Ned  Ward,  and  the  Restoration  lyrists.8  The  pious  could  enjoy 
few  English  poets  and  their  growing  feeling  of  the  isolation  of  God''s 
people  in  a  holy  commonwealth  and  their  belief  in  the  grandeur  of  their 
enterprise  stimulated  them  to  write  verse  of  their  own.  The  latest  study 
lists  more  than  one  hundred  and  fifty  poets  in  the  first  century  of  New 
England  history.9 

By  far  the  largest  part  of  what  they  wrote  had  little  literary  merit. 
Men  who  were  building  and  maintaining  prosperous  colonies  dedicated 
to  God  had  to  concentrate  on  "more  important  Performances."  10  Their 
poetic  soarings  were  usually  limited  by  a  feeling  that  poetry  must  be  first 
of  all  useful,  by  their  inexperience  with  it,  and  by  the  fact  that  the  readers 
to  whom  they  must  appeal  were  not  literary  sophisticates  and  commonly 
could  not  be  counted  on  to  appreciate  verses  that  were  too  rhetorically 
complex,  imaginatively  subtle,  or  elusive  in  idea.  It  is  true  that  many  of 
the  Puritans  followed  patterns  set  by  English  and  European  writers,  faith- 
fully enough  to  please  their  contemporaries  and  to  deserve  whatever 
praise  can  be  given  them  as  competent  technicians  in  special  styles,  but  it 
is  also  unfortunately  true  that  the  conventions  they  adopted  are  now 
mostly  outmoded. 

Throughout  Puritan  poetry  the  diction  and  imagery  often  show  the 
stifling  effect  of  parts  of  the  Puritan  literary  creed.  A  distrust  of  sensuous 
appeals,  a  rejection  of  the  ritualistic  symbols  used  constantly  in  Anglican 
and  Catholic  poetry,  and  an  insistence  that  rhetoric  was  simply  a  tool  for 
lucid  exposition  of  doctrine  and  truth,  were  all  handicaps  for  the  re- 
ligious poet.  An  artist  was  likely  to  be  pulled  up  short  when  he  remem- 
bered, as  Edward  Taylor  did,  that 

...in    die    judgment    Carnall    things    Excell: 
Pleasures  and  Profits  beare  away  the  Bell. 
The  Will  is  hereupon  perverted  so, 
It  laquyes  after  ill;  doth  good  foregoe. 
The  Reasonable  Soule  doth  much  delight 
A  Pickpack  t'ride  o'  th'  Sensuall  Appetite. 
And  hence  the  heart  is  hardened,  and  toves 
With  Love,  Delight,  and  Joy,  yea  Vanities. 

Make  but  a  thorow  search,  and  you  may  spy 
Your  soul  a  trudging  hard,  though  secretly 
Upon  the  feet  of  your  Affections  mute, 
And  hankering  after  all  forbidden  fruite.11 

8C.  Mather,  Manuductio,  ed.  T.  J.  Holmes   and   Kenneth   B.   Murdock    (iq*8) 
PP-  42,  43-  ^ 

9  Harold  S.  Jantz,  First  Century  of  New  England  Verse  (1944). 

10  C.  Mather,  Manuductio,  cd.  Holmes  and  Murdock,  p.  42. 

1  •  Poetical  Works,  "The  Accusation  of  the  Inward  Man,"  p.  55. 


POETS  AND  POETASTERS  57 

Grant  this  and  the  material  and  method  of  many  English  poetic  master- 
pieces cannot  be  accepted,  lest  they  tempt  the  heart  to  dwell  on  "Vani- 
ties," pervert  the  will,  and  enslave  the  soul  to  the  "Affections." 


Edward  Taylor  (1645?- 17 29)  broke  through  the  restraints  of  strict 
Puritan  literary  doctrine  in  his  best  work,  which  is  quite  able  to  stand 
comparison  with  most  of  the  major  English  religious  poetry  of  the  seven- 
teenth century.  He  was  born  in  England,  came  to  Massachusetts  in  1668, 
Graduated  from  Harvard  in  167 1,  and  served  as  a  physician  and  minister 
in  Westfield  until  his  death.  He  grew  up  when  the  poems  of  John  Donne, 
George  Herbert,  and  others  of  the  English  "metaphysicals,"  were  still  in 
vogue,  and  most  of  his  own  work  is  in  their  manner.  It  relies  constantly 
on  heavily  charged  metaphors  and  similes,  prefers  strength  to  smoothness 
in  meter,  plays  with  both  the  sound  and  sense  of  words,  and  deals  con- 
stantly in  hyperbole,  sharp  contrasts  and  even  paradox.  Taylor  loved  gems 
and  perfumes  as  sources  of  imagery;  his  allusions  to  music  suggest  that 
he  loved  it,  too;  and  his  special  affection  for  the  Song  of  Solomon  indicates 
his  sensuous  temperament.  Throughout  his  work  there  is  a  feeling  of 
conflict  between  that  temperament  and  his  Puritanical  dread  of  encourag- 
ing the  "Sensuall  Appetite"  to  carry  off  the  "Reasonable  Soule"  on  its 
back.  Some  of  the  strongest  dramatic  effects  in  his  poems  come  from 
the  conflict,  and  his  request  that  his  poems  be  not  published  may  show 
that  he  realized  that  he  had  yielded  sometimes  to  the  affections'  "hanker- 
ing" after  "Carnall  things." 

Some  of  his  poetic  virtues  come,  nonetheless,  from  his  skilful  and  imagi- 
native use  of  characteristically  Puritan  methods.  By  making  the  home- 
liest and  most  familiar  images  symbolize  the  loftiest  spiritual  realities; 
by  constantly  throwing  his  work  into  dramatic  forms  in  which  God, 
Christ,  Satan,  Mercy,  Justice,  and  the  soul  are  actors  and  speakers  who 
often  talk  in  the  earthiest  of  dialects;  by  making  bold  and  often  startlingly 
effective  juxtapositions  of  the  most  commonplace  and  the  most  exalted 
in  language  and  matter;  and  by  constantly  lighting  up  doctrine  by  spe- 
cific applications  of  it  to  human  situations,  just  as  the  preachers  were  wont 
to  do,  he  showed  what  admirable  use  a  genuine  artist  could  make  of  the 
Puritan  literary  code. 

He  begins  a  poem: 

Peace,  Peace,  my  Hony,  do  not  Cry, 
My  Little  Darling,  wipe  thine  eye, 

Oh  Cheer,  Cheer  up,  come  see. 
Is  anything  too  deare,  my  Dove, 
Is  anything  too  good,  my  Love, 

To  get  or  give  for  thee? 


58  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Here  is  a  lover  consoling  his  beloved,  or  a  parent  a  child.  A  barking  dog 
threatens,  but  the  reassurance  comes  at  once,  in  the  very  accent  of  New 
England  speech: 

And  if  he  run  an  inch  too  fur, 

Tie  Check  his  Chain,  and  rate  the  Cur. 
My  Chick,  keep  close  to  mee. 

Then,  with  a  shift  in  the  character  of  the  imagery,  Taylor  makes  a  con- 
trast in  tone: 

The  Poles  shall  sooner  kiss  and  greet, 

And  Paralells  shall  sooner  meet, 
Than  thou  shall  harmed  bee. 

The  succeeding  stanzas  gradually  reveal  the  speaker  as  Christ  himself, 
consoling  his  servant  and  protecting  him  from  the  Devil's  assaults.  The 
"Cur"  was  Satan;  the  affections  are  likened  to  yelping  beagles;  sins  are 
vermin;  and  the  believer's  soul,  "once  a  Stall,  Rich  hung  with  Satans 
nicknacks"  is  purified  by  repentance.  By  the  end  of  the  poem  the  images, 
although  still  familiar,  are  less  homely.  The  body  is  a  "Mudwald  Cote/' 
but  the  soul  is  a  "Noble  Sparke"  and 

These  White  Frosts  and  the  Showers  that  fall 
Are  but  to  whiten  thee  withall, 
Not  rot  the  Web  they  smote. 

If  in  the  fire  where  Gold  is  tri'de, 
Thy  Soule  is  put,  and  purifi'de, 

Wilt  thou  lament  thy  loss? 
If  silver-like  this  fire  refine 
Thy  Soul  and  make  it  brighter  Shine: 
Wilt  thou  bewaile  the  Dross? 

Oh!  fight  my  Field:  no  Colours  fear: 
I'l  be  thy  Front,  I'l  be  thy  reare. 

Fail  not:  my  Battells  fight. 
Defy  the  Tempter,  and  his  Mock. 
Anchor  thy  heart  on  mee,  thy  Rock. 

I  do  in  thee  Delight.12 

There  are  diffuse  and  dull  passages  in  this  poem,  and  its  shifts  of  level  in 
imagery  and  diction  are  sometimes  clumsy  and  confusing,  but  by  and 
large  it  is  an  admirable  imaginative  symbolization  in  a  dramatic  framework 
of  the  Puritan's  feeling  toward  Christ,  the  Redeemer. 

*         *         # 

£No  New  England  poet  for  nearly  a  century  after  Taylor  wrote  as  well. 

There  were  skilful  versifiers  but  they  were  usually  conscientious  imitators 

12"Chnsts  Reply"  in  Poetical  Works,  pp.  61-64. 


POETS  AND  POETASTERS  59 

of  English  masters.  Mather  Byles  (1707-88),  Cotton  Mather's  nephew, 
was  a  punster  and  a  popular  preacher,  who  wrote  poems  sedulously  fol- 
lowing Isaac  Watts,  Pope,  and  Thomson.  His  adversary  in  a  duel  of 
wit,  the  merchant  Joseph  Green  (1706-80),  showed  how  far  eighteenth- 
century  Boston  had  escaped  from  strict  Puritan  domination  by  writing 
humorous  and  satirical  poems,  jibing  at  the  Reverend  Mr.  Byles  and  his 
colleagues,  and  displaying  convivial  tastes  not  commonly  confessed  to 
by  the  founding  fathers.  In  general,  the  poetry  of  New  England  in  the 
eighteenth  century  was  technically  competent  but  too  derivative  in  style 
and  theme  to  preserve  much  interest  now. 

Earlier  than  Taylor  there  were,  however,  two  or  three  poets  deserving 
of  remembrance.  The  Reverend  Urian  Oakes  (c.  163 1-8 1)  wrote  an  elegy 
on  Thomas  Shepard,  the  son  of  the  great  preacher,  which  has  some  im- 
pressive stanzas,  moving  because  of  their  simplicity: 

If  wit's  Monopoly  were  mine; 
All  would  be  much  too  low,  too  light,  too  poor, 
To  pay  due  tribute  to  this  great  Divine. 
Ah,  wit  avails  not  when  th'  heart's  like  to  break, 
Great  griefs  are  Tongue-tied,  when  the  lesser  speak.13 

Benjamin  Tompson  (1642-1714),  a  school  teacHer  and  physician,  wrote 
some  witty  elegies  and  showed  familiarity  with  the  devices  used  by 
English  satirists  of  Dryden's  time  in  his  New  Englands  Crisis  (Boston, 
1676). 14  It  described  some  of  the  episodes  and  actors  in  the  disastrous 
"King  Philip's  War"  between  the  colonists  and  the  Indians  in  1675  and 
1676,  and  satirized  the  backsliding  of  the  colonists  which  Tompson,  like 
many  of  the  preachers,  thought  had  provoked  God  to  wrath.  The  glorifi- 
cation of  pristine  American  ways  which  we  have  seen  in  Daniel  Denton 
and  looked  ahead  to  in  Royall  Tyler  appears  in  Tompson's  prologue.  He 
recalls  the  days  when  "the  dainty  Indian  Maize"  was  eaten  out  of  clam 
shells,  in  "thatcht  Hutts,"  with  "the  best  Saivce  to  every  Dish,  Content." 

Twas  then  among  the  bushes,  not  the  street, 

If  one  in  place  did  an  inferiour  meet, 

"Good  morrow  Brother,  is  there  ought  you  want? 

Take  freely  of  me,  what  I  have  you  ha'nt." 

Plain  Tom  and  Dick  would  pass  as  currant  now, 

As  ever  since  "Your  Servant,  Sir"  and  bow. 

Deep-skirted  doublets,  puritanick  capes, 

Which  now  would  render  men  like  upright  Apes, 

13  An  Elegy  upon  the  Death  of  the  Reverend  Mr.  Thomas  Shepard  (Cambridge, 
1677),  reprinted  by  W.  L.  Washburn  (Aiken,  N.  C,  1902),  p.  12. 

"The  first  two  sections  appeared  in  London  in  the  same  year  with  the  title  Sad 
and  Deplorable  Newes  from  New  England,  and  the  remainder  of  the  poem  was 
printed  there,  with  some  other  verses,  as  New-Englands  Tears  for  Her  Present 
Miseries.  See  Jantz,  New  England  Verse,  pp.  265-266. 


6o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Was  comlier  wear,  our  wiser  Fathers  thought, 
Than  the  cast  fashions  from  all  Europe  brought. 

Freeness  in  Judgment,  union  in  affection, 

Dear  love,  sound  truth,  they  were  our  grand  protection.15 

"The  Bay  Psalm  Book,"  the  first  book  printed  in  the  English  colonies  in 
North  America,  has  become  famous  principally  because  it  is  a  book- 
collector's  prize.  Only  a  few  copies  of  the  first 'edition,  printed  at  Cam- 
bridge in  1640,  have  survived.  Unfortunately  its  bibliographic  importance 
has  misled  incautious  critics  into  giving  it  a  literary  notoriety  it  does  not 
deserve.  They  have  made  it  a  whipping  boy  for  Puritan  poetry,  and, 
finding  its  verses  clumsy,  have  visited  its  sins  on  all  Puritan  verse  writers! 
Actually  its  chief  authors,  usually  supposed  to  have  been  Richard  Mather, 
Thomas  Weld,  and  John  Eliot,  three  learned  ministers  trained  in  English 
universities,  must  have  known  what  good  verse  was,  but  they  knew^also 
that  their  congregations  wanted  a  completely  accurate  translation  of  the 
Psalms,  which  could  be  sung  to  familiar  tunes.  Given  the  double  problem 
of  translating  literally  and  of  fitting  words  to  a  few  melodies,  Mather 
and  his  colleagues  could  not  hope  for  poetry.  They  admitted  that  their 
lines  were  "not  alwayes  so  smooth  and  elegant  as  some  may  desire  or 
expect,"  but  their  answer  was:  "Gods  Altar  needs  not  our  pollishings." 
"Wee  have  respected  rather  a  plaine  translation,  then  to  smooth  our 
verses  with  the  sweetnes  of  any  paraphrase,  and  soe  have  attended  Con- 
science rather  then  Elegance,  fidelity  rather  then  poetry."  16  With  this 
disclaimer  in  mind  it  is  unjust  to  say  that  their  work  proves  that  New 
Englanders  had  no  metrical  skill  and  no  poetic  taste. 

Something  of  the  same  clash  between  the  utilitarian  Puritan  attitude 
and  the  demands  of  poetry  appears  in  The  Day  of  Doom  (Cambridge, 
1662),  by  Michael  Wigglesworth  ( 163 1- 1705).  The  first  edition  of  eight- 
een hundred  copies  was  sold  in  a  year.  If  we  take  180,000  (probably  too 
high  a  figure)  for  the  total  population  of  all  the  colonies  in  1662  and 
150,000,000  for  the  United  States  today,  the  record  of  Wigglesworth 's 
poem  could  be  matched  proportionately  only  by  a  sale  of  a  million  and 
a  half  in  twelve  months.17  The  Day  of  Doom  probably  had  four  more 
American  editions  and  two  English  ones  before  1701,  and  at  least  eleven 
thereafter,18  so  that  its  total  sales  must  have  reached  a  figure  which  few 
American  best  sellers  have  surpassed. 

15Tompson,  Poems,  ed.  Howard  J.  Hall  (1924),  pp.  49,  51. 

10  The  Whole  Booke  of  Psalmes  Faithfully  Translated  into  English  Metre  (1640), 
preface. 

1  -  Evarts  B.  Greene  and  Virginia  D.  Harrington,  American  Population  Before  the 
Federal  Census  of  ijpo   (1932),  p.  3,  entries  from  1663  and  1665. 

18  Wigglesworth,  Day  of  Doom,  ed.  K.  B.  Murdock  (1929),  p.  iii.  References  are 
to  this  edition. 


POETS  AND  POETASTERS  61 

The  book  was  "A  Poetical  Description  of  the  Great  and  Last  Judg- 
ment," obviously  written  to  instruct  and  terrify  sinners.  To  serve  its  pur- 
Dose  it  must  be  sound  in  theology  and  easily  read  and  remembered. 
/Therefore  Wigglesworth  chose  to  cast  it  in  a  familiar  ballad  meter,  which 
seems  to  us  peculiarly  inappropriate  to  its  theme.  But  the  author  "pro- 
posed the  Edification  of  such  Readers,  as  are  for  Truths  dressed  up  in  a 
Plain  Meeter"  and  believed  that  "he  is  the  best  artist  who  can  most  clearly 
and  familiarly  communicate  his  thoughts  to  the  meanest  capacity."  1!l 
Wisely  he  stuck  to  the  kind  of  verse  they  were  sure  to  understand: 

Still   was   the   night,   Serene   and   Bright, 

when  all  Men  sleeping  lay; 
Calm  was  the  season,  and  carnal  reason 

thought  so  'twould  last  for  ay.20 

There  is  evidence  that  Wigglesworth  was  a  serious  student  of  style 
and  a  poet  by  temperament,  partly  smothered  by  Puritan  critical  theory. 
Fortunately,  in  spite  of  the  limitations  of  the  theory,  he  could  at  times 
breathe  Parnassian  air.  Man  is,  he  wrote, 

A  restless  Wave  o'th'  troubled  Ocean, 

A  Dream,  a  lifeless  Picture  finely  drest^: 

A  Wind,  a  Flower,  a  Vapour,  and  a  Bubble, 

A  Wheel  that  stands  not  still,  a  trembling  Reed, 

A  Rolling  Stone,  dry  Dust,  light  Chaff,  and  Stubble, 

A  Shadow  of  Something,  but  nought  indeed.21 

Wigglesworth  was  born  in  England,  came  to  Massachusetts  in  1638, 
took  his  degree  at  Harvard,  taught  there  for  a  while,  travelled,  and  in 
1655  became  minister  at  Maiden.  "A  Little  Feeble  Shadow  of  a  Man''  22 
tormented  by  sickness,  he  struggled  on,  writing  The  Day  of  Doom  and 
two  other  long  poems:  "Gods  Controversy  with  New  England,"  23  a 
denunciation  of  the  sins  which  God  punished  by  the  "great  drought" 
and  other  alarming  events,  and  Meat  out  of  the  Eater:  or  Meditations 
Concerning  the  Necessity,  End,  and  Usefulness  of  Affliction  unto  Gods 
Children  (Cambridge,  1670).  His  labors  as  minister  and  physician,  his 
humility  and  generosity-he  blamed  himself  for  many  of  the  shortcom- 
ings of  his  pupils-won  him  the  love  of  his  people,  and  he  returned  their 
affection.  "Ah  dear  New  England!  dearest  land  to  me,"  24  he  wrote-and 
never  lost  his  faith  in  it  as  an  earthly  Zion. 

19  Day  of  Doom,  p.  vii;  Cotton  Mather,  A  Faithful  Man,  Described  and  Re- 
warded. ..  (Boston,  1705),  p.  24;  Wigglesworth's  manuscript:  'The  Prayse  of  Elo- 
quence." 

20  Day  of  Doom,  stanza  1. 

21  "Vanity  of  Vanities"  in  Day  of  Doom,  p.  87. 

22  Mather,  A  Faithful  Man,  p.  26. 

23  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Froc,  Vol.  12  (1873),  pp.  83-93. 

24  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Froc,  Vol.  12  (1873),  p.  93. 


62  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

He  has  been  often  misjudged.  His  vision  of  the  Judgment  Day  and  his 
presentation  of  God's  logical  mercilessness  in  the  face  of  all  pleas  from  j 
the  lost,  are  repulsive  to  later  Protestants  with  gentler  views.  The  passage  I 
in  The  Day  of  Doom  on  the  damnation  of  the  infants,  who  got  no  mercv  I 
except  the  doubtful  one  of  being  given  "the  easiest  room  in  Hell,"  has  1 
probably  been  quoted  more  often  than  anything  else  in  the  poem  and  I 
used  to  prove  both  the  evils  of  Calvinism  and  Wigglesworth's  own  joy  I 
in  cruelty.  But  Wigglesworth  is  at  least  as  compassionate  to  the  unhappy  I 
children  of  his  poem  as  most  Protestants  of  his  time,  and  the  God  he  de- 
scribed  had   precisely  the  same  traits  as  the  God   portrayed  by  most 
theologians  of  the  period. 

{Possibly  Wigglesworth's  doctrine  has  been  singled  out  for  special  con- 
demnation  because  he  was  a  good  enough  artist  to  make  his  theology 
come  to  life.  It  is  easy  to  accept  intellectually  a  forbidding  tenet  if  it  is  I 
stated  unemotionally;  once  it  is  dramatized  so  that  an  emotional  response  [ 
is  provoked  it  becomes  unbearable.  Wigglesworth  was  not  a  great  writer 
but  his  verses  expressed  the  human  consequences  of  his  theology  so  con- 
vincingly  that  feeling  is  stirred  by  them.  That  was  the  secret  of  his  popu- 
larity with  his  contemporaries,  who  shared  his  faith;  it  is  probably  the 
reason  for  the  abuse  heaped  on  him  by  later  critics,  who  do  not. 

www 

The  poems  of  Anne  Bradstreet  (c.  1612-72)  are  far  more  attractive 
today  than  Wigglesworth's,  although  his  were  certainly  more  popular  in 
their  time.  The  daughter  of  Thomas  Dudley,  manager  of  the  estate  of 
the  Earl  of  Lincoln  and  later  governor  of  Massachusetts,  she  spent  much 
of  her  girlhood  at  Tattershall  Castle,  where  she  had  access  to  books  and 
leisure  to  read  them.  In  16 18  or  16 19  she  married  Simon  Bradstreet,  then 
steward  to  the  Countess  of  Warwick.  When  he  brought  her  to  New 
England  in  1630  her  "heart  rose"  in  rebellion  against  "a  new  world  and 
new  manners."  But  after  she  "was  convinced  it  was  the  way  of  God"  she 
"submitted  to  it."  25  While  her  husband  prospered,  rose  to  the  governor- 
ship, and  eventually  won  the  title  of  the  "Nestor  of  New-England'' 2G 
she  carried  without  complaint  the  heavy  burdens  of  a  colonial  housewife. 
She  had  eight  children,  all  but  one  of  whom  survived  her,  and  the  care 
of  them  together  with  the  weaving,  spinning,  cooking  and  all  the  other 
necessary  tasks  of  a  large  household,  can  have  left  her  little  time  for 
books.  In  the  few  hours  she  could  snatch,  she  wrote  verses  to  please  her 
family  and  herself.  Since  she  had  no  intention  of  making  her  poems 
public  she  did  not  have  to  expound  theology  or  limit  herself  by  the 
standards  of  the  poetically  untutored.  She  was  free  to  write,  so  far  as 

2r>  Works  of  Anne  Bradstreet,  ed.  John  H.  Ellis  (1867),  p.  5.  All  references  here 
are  to  this  edition  and  the  biographical  data  are  drawn  from  the  editor's  introduction. 

26  Cotton  Mather,  Magnalia  Christi  Americana  (London,  1702),  Book  2,  Chap.  5, 
"Pater  Patriae." 


POETS  AND  POETASTERS  63 

she  could,  in  the  ways  of  Spenser  and  Sir  Philip  Sidney,  whose  work  she 
admired,  and  of  Guillaume  du  Bartas,  a  French  protestant  poet  of  the  late 
sixteenth  century.  His  poems,  translated  by  Joshua  Sylvester,  influenced 
her  work  so  much  that  Nathaniel  Ward  called  her  "a  right  Du  Bartas 
Girle."  27 

Her  brother-in-law,  John  Woodbridge,  an  Oxford  graduate  preaching 
at  Andover,  Massachusetts,  where  the  Bradstreets  settled,  was  delighted 
with  her  poems.  In  1650  he  had  some  of  them  published  in  London,  pre- 
suming "to  bring  to  publick  view,  what  she  resolved  in  such  a  manner 
should  never  see  the  Sun."  He  wrote  some  laudatory  verse  to  introduce 
the  little  volume  and  persuaded  Ward  and  others  to  do  the  same.  She 
was  eulogized  as  a  "golden  splendent  Star,"  one  whose  "sublime  brain" 
was  "the  Synopsis  of  Arts."  28  The  very  title  of  the  book  was  a  blurb: 
The  Tenth  Muse  Lately  sprung  up  in  America:  Or  Severall  Poems,  com- 
piled with  great  variety  of  Wit  and  Learning,  full  of  delight . . .  By  a 
Gentlewoman  in  those  parts. 

Anne  Bradstreet  was  too  conscientious  an  artist  to  be  content  until  she 
had  revised  the  printed  poems.  A  few  of  the  changes  she  made  were 
political,  since  some  things  that  were  palatable  in  1650  when  the  Puritans 
were  in  power  in  England  would  hardly  please  English  supporters  of 
Charles  I  and  II;  other  alterations  wove  in  new  material  from  her  reading; 
and  still  others  were  attempts  to  improve  the  music  and  diction.  The  re- 
vised texts,  with  some  other  verses  found  among  her  manuscripts,  were 
published  in  Boston  in  1678,  six  years  after  her  death,  as  Several  Poems 
. .  .By  a  Gentlewoman  in  New-England.  The  poems  which  first  saw  the 
light  in  this  volume  were  less  bookish  and  more  personal  than  the  long 
treatments  of  the  four  elements,  four  seasons,  and  the  four  ages  and  "con- 
stitutions" of  man,  which,  "with  an  Exact  Epitomie  of  the  Four  Mon- 
archies," had  made  up  the  bulk  of  The  Tenth  Muse. 

I^jThose  sober  poems  were  drawn  from  Anne  Bradstreet's  reading  rather 
than  from  her  individual  feeling  or  ideas;  she  probably  valued  them  be- 
cause they  expressed  her  bookish  tastes  and  also  because  they  proved  that 
men  had  no  monopoly  on  learning.  She  leaned  toward  a  proto-feminist 
position  and  insisted  that  critics  should  not  scorn  "Female  wits."  Some 
of  her  lines  on  Queen  Elizabeth  take  supercilious  "Masculines"  wittily 
to  task: 

Now  say,   have  women  worth?    or  have  they   none? 
Or  had  they  some,  but  with  our  Queen  is't  gone? 
Nay  Masculines,  you  have  thus  taxt  us  long, 
But  she,  though  dead,  will  vindicate  our  wrong. 
Let  such  as  say  our  Sex  is  void  of  Reason, 
Know  tis  a  Slander  now,  but  once  was  Treason.29 


7  Works,  p.  85. 

s  Works,  pp.  84,  91-92. 

9  Works,  pp.  101-102,  361. 


64  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Some  lines  suggest  that  she  was  restless  in  Puritan  bonds.  Her  "verses 
upon  the  burning  of  our  house"  combine  a  lament  for  her  loss  with 
resolute  assertions  that  God's  will  must  be  done,  but  the  tone  of  the  poem 
is  that  of  an  argument  with  herself,  in  which  she  had  to  "chide"  her  way- 
ward heart  for  its  fondness  for  the  things  of  this  world.  In  her  debate 
between  the  two  sisters,  "Flesh"  and  "Spirit,"  the  latter  wins,  of  course, 
but  the  decision  is  close.  She  grieves  for  the  death  of  a  grandchild,  in 
verses  "which  she  never  meant  should  come  to  publick  view,"  and  rises 
to  a  moving  protest  against  the  injustice  of  it,  but  suddenly  remembers 
that  that  way  lies  heresy.  The  poem  peters  out  in  an  awkward  last  line 
which  makes  only  a  perfunctory  obeisance  to  God.30 

She  is  happiest  in  her  poems  to  and  about  her  husband  and  children. 
She  may  have  had  some  doubts  about  the  lovability  of  God,  but  she  had 
none  about  Simon  Bradstreet's.  She  called  him: 

My  head,  my  heart,  mine  Eyes,  my  life,  nay  more, 
My  Joy,  my  Magazine  of  earthly  store.31 

Although  she  copied  the  worst  tricks  of  Du  Bartas  and  his  school  and 
clogged  her  verse  with  plays  on  words,  artificial  figures,  and  rhetorical 
schemes  that  seem  pedantic  in  the  context,  her  emotion  often  burns 
through.  One  poem  to  her  husband  ends  on  a  religious  note,  but  in  effect 
subordinates  divine  to  human  love: 

If  ever  two  were  one,  then  surely  we. 

If  ever  man  were  lov'd  by  wife,  then  thee; 

If  ever  wife  was  happy  in  a  man, 

Compare  with  me  ye  women  if  you  can. 

I  prize  thy  love  more  then  whole  Mines  of  gold, 

Or  all  the  riches  that  the  East  doth  hold. 

My  love  is  such  that  Rivers  cannot  quench, 

Nor  ought  but  love  from  thee,  give  recompence. 

Thy  love  is  such  I  can  no  way  repay, 

The  heavens  reward  thee  manifold  I  pray. 

Then  while  we  live,  in  love  lets  so  persever, 

That  when  we  live  no  more,  we  may  live  ever.32 

Anne  Bradstreet's  most  famous  work,  "Contemplations,"  gives  the  same 
effect  of  an  outward  show  of  theological  orthodoxy  veneering  a  deeper 
love  for  this  world.  It  is  a  nature  poem  in  which  the  authoress  looks  at 
New  England,  with  its  autumn  coloring  "of  green,  of  red,  of  yellow,"  and 
is  charmed  by  the  "delectable  view."  An  oak,  an  elm,  a  rocky  stream, 
grasshoppers,  fish,  and  crickets,  and  the  mystery  of  mortality,  are  all 
contemplated,  and  the  poetess  longs  to  "sing  some  Song"  to  magnify  the 

30  Works,   pp.  40-42,  381-385,  391,  404. 

31  Works,  p.  394. 

32  Works,  p.  394. 


POETS  AND  POETASTERS  65 

Creation,  but  is  forced  to  cry,  "But  Ah,  and  Ah  again,  my  imbecility!", 
since  her  talent  is  not  equal  to  the  task.  But  she  perseveres  in  her  praise  of 
nature,  carefully  tempering  it  with  the  reflection  that,  although  plants 
renew  themselves  and  stones  seem  imperishable,  man  alone  can  hope  for 
Heaven.  The  poem  ends: 

O  Time  the  fatal  wrack  of  mortal  things, 

That  draws  oblivions  curtains  over  kings, 

Their  sumptuous  monuments,  men  know  them  not, 

Their  names  without  a  Record  are  forgot, 

Their  parts,  their  ports,  their  pomp's  all  laid  in  th'  dust 

Nor  wit  nor  gold,  nor  buildings  scape  times  rust; 

But  he  whose  name  is  grav'd  in  the  white  stone 

Shall  last  and  shine  when  all  of  these  are  gone.33 

The  only  triumph  over  time  is  that  reserved  for  the  devout  who  hear 
"what  the  Spirit  saith  unto  the  churches"  and  thereby  earn  "the  hidden 
manna"  and  are  commemorated  in  the  "white  stone"  of  Revelation.34 
Anne  Bradstreet  believed  this  with  her  mind,  certainly,  but  she  could 
not  subdue  her  heart's  delight  in  natural  beauty.  When  she  was  content 
with  loving  her  family,  her  house,  and  the  fields  and  trees  she  saw  from 
her  kitchen  windows,  she  wrote  movingly.  She  introduced  Philomel  into 
the  Merrimac  valley  where  no  nightingale  ever  sang,  but  she  did  see  the 
autumn  glory  of  New  England  and  she  did  know  all  about  the  joys  and 
sorrows  of  a  pioneer  housewife.  Her  best  work  belongs  well  up  in  the 
scale  of  good  seventeenth-century  verse,  English  or  American;  she  wrote 
good  prose  in  her  Meditations.2**  In  both,  her  success  came  because  she 
was  an  artist  at  heart  and  wrote  to  satisfy  a  personal  need.  As  one  of  the 
earliest  genuine  poets  in  our  literary  history,  whose  work  was  surpassed 
by  no  one  on  these  shores  except  Edward  Taylor  for  nearly  a  hundred 
years,  her  name  deserves  to  be  inscribed,  as  it  has  been  by  scores  of  critics, 
on  the  "white  stone"  dedicated  to  the  masters  in  the  literary  tradition  of 
the  American  people. 

33  Works,  pp.  370-381. 

34  Revelation,  11:   17. 

35  Works,  pp.  45-76. 


Chapter  5 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS 


The  colonists'  accounts  of  their  own  history  are  among  the  most  in- 
teresting items  in  our  early  literature.  The  best  of  them  show  a  marked 
care  for  style,  which  testifies  to  the  seriousness  with  which  writers  and 
audience  regarded  them.  Narratives  of  colonial  progress  might  lure  in- 
vestors and  new  settlers,  and  the  pioneers,  men  of  the  Renaissance,  re- 
spected the  historical  muse.  History  was  "the  light  of  Truth,  and  life  of 
Memorie,"  x  and  useful  for  the  "advancement  of  learning;"  it  was  also 
a  corrective  of  morals  and  a  guide  to  conduct.  In  162 1  the  "court"  of  the 
Virginia  Company  in  London  agreed  that  "a  faire  &  perspicuous"  history 
of  the  plantation  would  help  to  keep  it  alive,2  and  the  same  attitude  pre- 
vailed in  the  other  colonies. 

William  Strachey,0'  perhaps  inspired  by  Bacon  to  whom  he  dedicated 
his  work,  had  finished  part  of  his  Historie  of  Travaile  into  Virginia 
Britannia4"  by  1620.  It  was  written  as  a  "service  of  dutie."  5  Strachey 
began  by  describing  the  new  country  and  proceeded  to  "The  First 
Decade  of  the  Historie  of . . .  Virginia,"  from  the  "First  Discoveries" 
until  1607.  He  probably  hoped  to  continue  the  narrative  further,  but 
even  the  small  part  he  finished  shows  the  nature  of  the  historical  impulse 
in  the  colonies.  He  wrote  to  correct  those  who  slandered  Virginia,  to 
justify  England's  claim  to  the  new  territory,  and  to  prove  that  coloniza- 
tion was  a  service  to  Christianity.  He  was  at  his  best  in  description  and 
simple  narrative,  but  he  thought  of  his  book  as  an  important  scholarly 

1  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  The  History  of  the  World  (London,  1614),  frontispiece. 

2  The  Records  of  the  Virginia  Company  of  London,  ed.  Susan  M.  Kingsbury 
(Washington,   1906-35),  Vol.   1,  pp.  451-452. 

'■''  Cf .  pp.  20-2 1  above. 

4  Ed.  R.  H.  Major  (1849). 

5  William  Strachey,  For  the  Colony  in  Virginea  Brittannia.  Lawes  Divine,  Morall 
and  Martiall  (London,  16 12),  p.  1  of  dedicatory  epistle  "To  the  constant,  mighty, 
and  worthie  friends. . ." 

66 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  67 

undertaking  and  in  his  "Praemonition"  did  his  best  to  set  a  rhetorical 
and  learned  tone.6 

In  162 1  Captain  John  Smith  went  to  work  on  his  Generall  Historic 
of  Virginia,  New-England,  and  the  Summer  Isles  (London,  1624).  The 
book  was  a  compilation  of  excerpts  from  the  author's  earlier  writings  and 
from  "an  infinite  number  of  variable  Relations"  7  by  others,  seasoned 
with  a  little  new  material.  It  was  an  obvious  attempt  at  a  complete  history, 
organized  according  to  an  intelligible  plan. 

No  other  comprehensive  Virginia  history  appeared  until  1705,  but 
Nathaniel  Bacon's  "rebellion"  in  1676  gave  material  for  a  short  account 
which  has  considerable  literary  merit.  Discovered  in  manuscript  and  first 
printed  in  18 14,  it  treats  its  story  in  the  style  of  the  polite  wits  of  Charles 
II's  court.  At  times  the  anonymous  author's  bookish  allusions  and  artificial 
tricks  of  prose  refine  to  the  vanishing  point  the  hot  passions  of  the 
characters  in  his  tale  and  the  grimness  of  its  events,  but  at  his  best  he  is 
more  expert  than  most  historical  pamphleteers  in  the  colonies.8 

That  his  work  was  not  printed  is  evidence  of  the  handicaps  which 
writers  of  taste  and  talent  faced  in  colonial  Virginia.  A  printer  had  begun 
work  in  Jamestown  in  1682,  but  the  colonial  council  forbade  him  to  go 
on  until  the  king's  pleasure  was  known.  The  royal  order  which  ensued 
decreed  that  "no  person  be  permitted  to  use  any  press  for  printing  upon 
any  occasion  whatever,"  and  no  printer  was  established  in  Virginia  until 
1730.9 

The  History  and  Present  State  of  Virginia  by  Robert  Beverley  (c.  1 673- 
1722)  was  published  in  London  in  1705.  It  was  written  because  Beverley 
felt  that  there  had  been  as  yet  no  "tolerable  Account"  designed  for  "the 
Information  of  Mankind"  rather  than  "the  Benefit  of  the  Bookseller," 
and  because  he  was  infuriated  by  John  Oldmixon's  The  British  Empire 
in  America,  which  he  saw  in  manuscript  and  denounced  as  a  "faulty  and 
. . .  imperfect . . .  patchwork  ...  of  some  accounts  . . .  printed  60  or  70 
years  ago."  10 

Beverley  follows  a  traditional  pattern,  beginning  with  a  "History  of 
the  First  Settlement  of  Virginia,  and  the  Government  thereof,  to  the 
present  Time"  and  continuing  with  a  description  of  the  "Natural 
Productions  and  Conveniencies  of  the  Country,  suited  to  Trade  and 
Improvement,"  an  account  of  the  Indians,  and  a  picture  of  "The  present 
State  of  the  Country,  as  to  the  Polity  of  the  Government,  and  the  Im- 

6  Historie  (1849),  PP-  x35'  I_22- 

7  Captain  John  Smith's  Circular  or  Prospectus  of  His  Generall  Historie  of  Virginia 
...Reproduced  From  the  Only  Known  Copy   (privately  printed,  Cambridge,   1914). 

8  A  Narrative  of  the  Indian  and  Civil  Wars  in  Virginia,  In  the  Years  1675  ^nd  1676, 
in  Tracts,  ed.  Force  (reprint  edition,  1947),  Vol.  1,  no.  11. 

9  Lawrence  C.  Wroth,  The  Colonial  Printer  (1938),  pp.  38-39. 

10  Robert  Beverley,  The  History  and  Present  State  of  Virginia,  ed.  Louis  B. 
Wright  (University  of  North  Carolina  Press,  Chapel  Hill,  1947),  pp.  xvii,  9.  All 
references  are  to  this  edition. 


68  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

provements  of  the  Land."  The  book  is  highly  readable  and  too  often 
neglected  by  literary  historians,  even  though,  as  Beverley  knew,  its 
stylistic  merits  were  moderate.  "I  am,"  he  said,  "an  Indian,  and  don't 
pretend  to  be  exact  in  my  Language:  But  I  hope  the  Plainness  of  my 
Dress,  will  give  . . .  the  kinder  Impressions  of  my  Honesty ...  I  have 
endeavour'd  to  hit  the  Likeness . . .  though,  perhaps,  my  Colouring  may 
not  have  all  the  Life  and  Beauty  I  cou'd  wish."  1X 

But  Beverley  was  not  ignorant  of  prose  standards  and  although  he 
chose  plainness  he  did  not  despise  grace,  wit,  or  any  device  consonant 
with  clarity.  When  his  pet  likes  and  dislikes  were  concerned— his  love  for 
Virginia,  his  appreciation  of  its  landscape,  his  sympathy  for  the  Indians, 
and  his  resentment  of  interference  with  the  self-government  the  planta- 
tion had  achieved— he  wrote  in  vigorously  salty  phrases  and  drove  his 
points  home  with  humor  or  irony.  He  did  not  have  the  talent  of  his 
brother-in-law,  William  Byrd,  but  the  1 705  version  of  his  book,  obviously 
written  con  amore,  is  full  of  lively  bits.  In  the  revised  second  edition  he 
was  more  cautious  and  watered  down  or  omitted  some  passages,  critical 
of  individuals  or  likely  to  offend  the  conservative.12  In  so  doing  he  kept 
on  the  urbane  level  of  the  English  coffeehouse  wits  but  gave  up  the  full- 
blooded  quality  of  some  of  his  best  pages. 

Beverley's  reflections  on  the  Indians  anticipate  the  romantics  by 
suggesting  that  the  savages  had  more  to  lose  than  to  gain  from  "civiliza- 
tion." The  Indians  are,  he  says, 

happy,  I  think,  in  their  simple  State  of  Nature,  and  in  their  enjoyment  of 
Plenty,  without  the  Curse  of  Labour.  They  have  on  several  accounts  reason 
to  lament  the  arrival  of  the  Europeans,  by  whose  means  they  seem  to  have 
lost  their  Felicity,  as  well  as  their  Innocence.  The  English  have  taken  away 
great  part  of  their  Country,  and  consequently  made  everything  less  plenty 
amongst  them.  They  have  introduc'd  Drunkenness  and  Luxury  amongst  them, 
which  have  multiply'd  their  Wants,  and  put  them  upon  desiring  a  thousand 
things,  they  never  dreamt  of  before.13 

John  Lawson  and  others  felt  the  same  way.  The  idea  that  the  American 
had  in  closeness  to  nature  an  advantage  over  the  European  fostered  one  of 
the  emotional  strains  which  helped  to  make  the  Revolution  possible,  and 
Beverley's  calling  himself  "an  Indian"  and  "an  American"  14  foreshadowed 
later  patriots,  who  made  the  farmer  and  the  frontiersman,  the  philosopher 
in  a  fur  hat  and  the  wearer  of  homespun,  symbols  of  American  virtues. 

In    Carolina    there    was    no    thorough-going    history    written    by    an 

11  History,  Title-page,  p.  9. 

12  Wright,  Intro,  in  History,  pp.  xxiii-xxxi. 

13  History,  p.  233. 

14  An  Essay  Upon  the  Government  of  the  English  Plantations  ...of  America  ...By 
an  American  (London,  1701),  was  very  possibly  written  by  Beverley.  Cf.  Louis  B. 
Wright's  introduction  in  his  edition   (San  Marino,  Calif.,  1945),  pp.  xi-xiii. 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  69 

American  until  after  the  Revolution  began,  and  An  Historical  Account 
(London,  1779),  by  Alexander  Hewat  (c.  1745-c.  1829)  has  little  liter- 
ary importance.  In  Georgia  there  were  the  usual  descriptive  tracts  or 
brief  narratives  and  one  extraordinary  book  which  masqueraded  as  a 
history:  A  True  and  Historical  Narrative  of  the  Colony  of  Georgia,  in 
America ...  (Charleston,  1741),  written  by  Patrick  Tailfer  (fl.  1741), 
Hugh  Anderson,  David  Douglas,  and  other  Georgian  settlers.  It  was 
neither  wholly  "True"  nor  in  any  strict  sense  "Historical."  It  did  tell 
the  brief  story  of  the  colony,  founded  in  1733,  but  it  was  principally  a 
violent  polemic,  a  stinging  attack  on  General  James  Oglethorpe,  the 
founder  of  Georgia.  The  dedication  to  him  is  bitterly  ironic:  "[You] 
have  . . .  Protected  us  from  ourselves,  as  Mr.  Waller  says,  by  keeping  all 
Earthly  Comforts  from  us.  You  have  afforded  us  the  Opportunity  of  ar- 
riving at  the  Integrity  of  the  Primitive  Times,  by  intailing  a  more  than 
Primitive  Poverty  on  us."  15  The  tone  is  the  partisan  satirist's,  not  the 
historian's,  and  it  is  its  satirical  brilliance  which  entitles  the  book  to  a 
place  in  our  literary  annals.  No  American  work  of  the  kind  surpassed  it 
for  many  years. 

Pennsylvania  also  had  to  wait  a  long  time  for  a  full-dress  history  written 
by  one  of  its  own  people.  The  account  by  Samuel  Smith  (1720-76)  con- 
tains much  good  material  but  it  is  painfully  dull,  and  too  concentrated  on 
the  Society  of  Friends  to  be  a  real  history  of  the  colony.  Smith  also  tried 
his  hand  at  a  history  of  New  Jersey,  but  its  pages  are  heavy,  his  selective 
ability  is  rudimentary,  and  there  is  nothing  in  the  book  to  admire  but  its 
diligence.16 

New  York  fared  better  with  one  competent  historian  of  the  colony 
itself  and  another,  Cadwallader  Colden,  who  wrote  a  valuable  book  on 
the  Indians.  The  first,  William  Smith  (1728-93),  graduated  from  Yale  in 
1745  and  became  a  successful  politician  and  lawyer  in  New  York.  He 
studied  the  colonial  records,  which  gave  him  material  for  a  history,  and 
his  enthusiasm  for  the  land  of  his  birth  encouraged  him  to  write  one. 
His  book  challenged  English  misconceptions  and  misstatements  about 
New  York  and  attacked  the  royal  governors  who  seemed  to  him  to  have 
preyed  upon  it. 

The  first  part  of  his  History  of  the  Province  of  New  York,  carrying 
the  story  to  1732,  appeared  in  London  in  1757.  He  continued  his  chronicle 
to  1762,  but  left  the  later  part  unpublished.  "To  suppress  truth  on  the 
one  hand,  or  exaggerate  it  on  the  other,  are  both  inexcusable  faults,"  he 
said,  and  he  felt  that  if  he  wrote  of  "his  own  times"  "it  would  be  difficult 
...  to  avoid  those  extremes."  17 

15  Tracts,  ed.  Force,  Vol.  1,  no.  4,  p.  iv. 

16  History  of  the  Province  of  Pennsylvania,  ed.  William  M.  Mervine  ( 1 9 1 3 ) ; 
History  of  the  Colony  of  Nova-Caesaria  (1765). 

17N.Y.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  Vol.  4  (1829),  pp.  248-249. 


7o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

There  are  inaccuracies,  dull  passages,  and  intrusive  documents,  but  on 
the  whole  the  book  is  written  with  a  good  ear  for  prose  and  some  narra- 
tive skill.  When  he  could,  Smith  let  his  characters  speak  in  direct  discourse, 
which  gives  life  to  the  story,  and  he  had  a  pleasant  knack  for  generaliza- 
tions which,  although  not  profound,  are  usually  intelligent  enough  to  be 
interesting.  "The  history  of  an  infant  country  must  consist  of  many 
events  comparatively  trivial:  they  were  nevertheless  often  characteristic," 
he  declared,  and  he  tried  to  escape  triviality  bv  emphasizing  what  seemed 
to  him  "characteristic"  of  major  issues  and  problems  and  by  pointing 
up  his  narrative  with  general  reflections  such  as  this,  on  the  Indians:  "A 
people  whose  riches  consist,  not  so  much  in  abundance  as  in  a  freedom 
from  want;  who  are  circumscribed  by  no  boundaries,  who  live  by  hunt- 
ing, and  not  by  agriculture,  must  always  be  free."  18 

The  History  was  sharply  attacked  by  Cadwallader  Colden  (1688- 
1776),19  whose  chief  historical  effort  was  not  as  good  as  Smith's  in  its 
selection  of  material,  narrative  technique,  or  style.  Colden,  a  Scottish 
born  physician  in  Philadelphia,  who  became  in  1 7 1 8  surveyor-general  and 
eventually  lieutenant-governor  of  New  York,  was  an  incorrigibly  diligent 
scholar,  like  Cotton  Mather  in  the  bulk  and  variety  of  his  work  but  even 
broader  in  his  interests.  Theology,  metaphysics  and  ethics,  the  natural 
sciences,  medicine  and  politics,  farming,  and  history  all  attracted  him, 
and  he  was  a  major  figure  in  the  history  of  colonial  scholarship. 

His  most  important  historical  work  was  The  History  of  the  Five  Indian 
Natiojis,  first  completely  published  in  London  in  1747.  The  subtitle  of 
the  1755  edition  describes  it  fully.  "The  Five  Indian  Nations"  are  those 
"dependent  On  the  Province  of  New  York .  .  .  and  Are  the  Barrier 
between  the  English  and  French  in  that  Part  of  the  World."  The  book 
contains  "Accounts  of  their  Religion,  Manners,  Customs,  Laws,  and 
Forms  of  Government; .  . .  Battles  and  Treaties  .  .  .  Wars  with  the  other 
Indians;  and  a  true  Account  of  the  Present  State  of  our  Trade  with 
them."  2U  If  Colden  had  had  even  William  Smith's  modest  talents  for 
characterization  and  narrative,  the  book  might  well  have  been  highly 
readable  and  exciting;  unfortunately,  he  wrote  like  a  scholar,  not  an  artist. 

As  a  scholar,  however,  he  thought  about  the  problems  of  writing 
history,  and  the  preface  to  the  first  part  of  his  book  entitles  him  to  a 
minor  place  in  the  story  of  American  criticism.  He  apologized  for  "fill- 
ing up  so  great  Part  of  the  Work  with  the  Adventures  of  small  Parties, 
and  sometimes  with  those  of  one  single  Man."  But  he  felt  that  a  history 
of  the  Indians  "would  be  very  lame,  without  an  Account  of  these  private 
Adventures;  for  their . .  .  whole  Art  of  War  consists  in  managing  small 
Parties;"  and  pointed  out  that  some  readers  would  want  "to  know  the 

18  N.  Y.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  Vol.  4  (1829),  pp.  171,  47. 

19 N.  Y.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  series  2,  Vol.  2   (1849),  pp.  193-214. 

20  Title-page  (1755).  All  references  are  to  this  edition. 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  71 

Manners  and  Customs  of  the  Indians"  and  would  not  be  satisfied  if  he 
did  not  take  "Notice  of  several  minute  Circumstances,  and  Things  other- 
wise of  no  Consequence."  He  explained  his  "inserting  so  many  Speeches 
at  Length"  by  his  wish  to  make  "the  Genius  of  the  Indians . . .  appear." 

An  Historian  may  paint  Mens  Actions  in  lively  Colours,  or  in  faint  Shades, 
as  he  likes  best,  and  in  both  Cases  preserve  a  perfect  Likeness;  but  it  will 
be  a  difficult  Task  to  shew  the  Wit,  Judgment,  Art,  Simplicity,  and  Ignorance 
of  the  several  Parties,  managing  a  Treaty ,  in  other  Words  than  their  own ...  I 
thought  myself  incapable  of  doing  it,  without  depriving  the  judicious  Observer 
of  the  Opportunity  of  discovering  much  of  the  Indian  Genius,  by . . .  con- 
tracting or  paraphrasing  their  Harangues,  and  without  committing  often  gross 
Mistakes.  For,  on  these  Occasions,  a  skilful  Manager  often  talks  confusedly, 
and  obscurely,  with  Design;  which  if  an  Historian  should  endeavour  to  amend, 
the  Reader  would  receive  the  History  in  a  false  Light. . . .  The  Indians . . .  use 
many  Metaphors  in  their  Discourse,  which  interpreted  by  an  unskilful  Tongue, 
may  appear  mean,  and  strike  our  Imagination  faintly;  but  under  the  Pen  of 
a  skilful  Representer,  might  strongly  move  our  Passions  by  their  lively 
Images. . . . 

He  that  first  writes  the  History  of  Things,  which  are  not  generally  known, 
ought  to  avoid,  as  much  as  possible,  to  make  the  Evidence  of  the  Truth  depend 
intirely  on  his  own  Veracity  and  Judgment;  and  *for  this  Reason  I  have 
related  several  Transactions  in  the  Words  of  the  Registers.21 

Colden  knew  how  tastes  differed  and,  unwisely  as  it  now  seems,  included 
too  much  in  order  that  everyone  might  find  "something . . .  suited  to  his 
own  Palate,"  thinking  it  "better  to  run  the  Risque  of  being  sometimes 
tedious  to  certain  Readers,  than  to  omit  any  thing"  that  might  be 
useful.22 

There  is  a  flavor  of  sour  grapes  in  his  comment  on  style: 

Histories  wrote  with  all  the  Delicacy  of  a  fine  Romance,  are  like  French 
Dishes,  more  agreeable  to  the  Palate  than  the  Stomach,  and  less  wholesome 
than  more  common  and  coarser  Diet.  An  Historian's  Views  must  be  curious 
and  extensive,  and  the  History  of  different  People  and  different  Ages  requires 
different  Rules,  and  often  different  Abilities  to  write  it;  I  hope  . . .  the  Reader 
will . . .  receive  this  first  Attempt  of  this  kind  with  more  than  usual 
Allowances.23 

Making  all  "Allowances"  we  must  still  regret  that  Colden  was  not  better 
able  to  "move  our  Passions  by .  .  .  lively  Images." 

#         *         * 

History  had  special  value  for  the  Puritans  because  they  believed  that 
the  record  of  their  doings  had  religious  significance.  Their  emphasis  on 

21  History,  pp.  ix-xii. 

22  History,  p.  xii. 

23  History,  p.  xii. 


72  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

God's  manipulation  of  earthly  events  by  his  "providence"  led  to  the 
notion  that  history  showed  what  he  approved  or  condemned.  New 
England's  success  proved  that  its  people  were  faithful  servants  of  God.! 
When  disasters  came,  they  came  from  on  high  and  should  warn  sinners 
to  mend  their  ways.  Any  event  might  display  the  divine  purpose;  there- 
fore any  history  was  useful. 

This  providential  interpretation  was  common  among  men  of  ail  creeds 
during  the  period  of  colonial  settlement.  Captain  John  Smith  was 
no  zealot  but  like  most  Christians  of  his  time  thought  history  showed 
"God's  infinite  mercies  and  favours  towards"  man.24  Even  writers  not 
primarily  concerned  with  religious  issues  paid  lip-service  to  the  provi- 
dential doctrine,  and  the  Puritans  who  believed  the  chief  end  of  writing- 
was  instruction  centered  their  histories  on  it.  They  were  sure  that  the 
advance  of  Protestantism  was  a  crusade  for  God  and  that  they  were 
chosen  by  him  to  help  to  lead  it.  They  drew  parallels  between  the  Old 
Testament  narrative  and  their  adventures  in  quest  of  an  American  Canaan 
and  between  their  stormy  Atlantic  voyage  and  the  miraculous  crossing 
of  the  Red  Sea.  They  saw  in  their  history  a  continuation  of  a  great  epic, 
and  took  pains  to  write  it  as  well  as  they  knew  how. 

The  beginning  of  the  "History  of  Plymouth  Plantation"  by  William 
Bradford  (1590- 1657)  shows  this.  He  was  not  writing  the  tale  of  a  handful 
of  English  adventurers  but  of  a  new  triumph  for  the  cause  of  Christianity. 
The  Reformation  was  an  earlier  victory;  Satan  "ever  since  . . .  continued 
against  the  Saincts"  all  sorts  of  "warrs  and  opposissions."  Bradford  touches 
briefly  on  some  of  these,  up  to  the  time  when  the  Pilgrims  fled  to  Holland, 
and  by  setting  his  story  of  the  settlement  of  Plymouth  against  this  back- 
ground makes  it  a  dramatic  chapter  in  the  pilgrimage  of  God's  chosen 
from  sin  to  holiness.25 

He  was  a  Yorkshire  yeoman,  who  came  with  the  first  Plymouth 
colonists  and  served  as  their  governor  for  thirty  years.  As  early  as  1630 
he  began  to  write  the  history  of  the  settlement."  He  worked  hard  to  give 
it  form  and  meaning  by  careful  selection  and  interpretation,  clothing  it 
in  a  "plaine  stile"  adapted  both  to  the  material  and  the  audience  he  hoped 
to  reach.20  To  be  "plaine"  did  not  mean  to  be  careless,  and  Bradford's 
book  is  an  American  classic  because  it  tells  a  heroic  story  in  prose  which 
often  has  dignity  and  beauty.  There  was  not  time  to  carry  the  whole 
work  through  on  the  scale  he  planned,  and  the  latter  part  lapses  into  bare 
annalistic  recording,  but  even  in  its  unfinished  form  the  book  is  one  of 
the  few  masterpieces  of  colonial  literature. 

Bradford  was  not  a  trained  writer  and  there  are  some  clumsy  pages, 

24  John  Smith,  True  Travels,  ed.  Edward  Arbcr  and  Arthur  C.  Bradley  (1910), 
Vol.  2,  p.  893. 

25  William  Bradford,  History,  ed.  W.  C.  Ford  (1912),  Vol.  1,  Chap.  1.  All  refer- 
ences are  to  this  edition. 

26  History,  Vol.   1,  p.   1. 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  73 

but  they* are  made  up  for  by  others  which  succeed  because  of  his  narra- 
tive skill,  humor,  and  robust  phrasing,  and  his  genius  for  making  re- 
strained diction  communicate  an  exalted  spiritual  fervor.  His  loftier 
passages  have  been  reprinted  by  anthologists  again  and  again.  One  example 
must  suffice  to  show  his  skill  with  simple  phrases  and  patterns,  his  debt 
10  the  rhetoric  of  the  Bible,  and  the  fertilizing  quality  of  his  belief  that 
all  mankind  lay  in  the  hollow  of  God's  hand: 

Summer  being  done,  all  things  stand  upon  them  with  a  wetherbeaten  face; 
and  the  whole  countrie,  full  of  woods  and  thickets,  represented  a  wild  and 
savage  heiw.  If  they  looked  behind  them,  ther  was  the  mighty  ocean  which 
thev  had  passed,  and  was  now  as  a  maine  barr  and  goulfe  to  seperate  them 
from  all  the  civill  parts  of  the  world  . . .  What  could  now  sustaine  them  but 
the  spirite  of  God  and  his  grace?  May  not  and  ought  not  the  children  of  these 
fathers  rightly  say:  Our  faithers  were  English  men  which  came  over  this  great 
ocean,  and  were  ready  to  perish  in  this  willdernes,  but  they  cried  unto  the  Lord, 
2nd  he  heard  their  voyce,  and  looked  on  their  adversitie,  etc.  Let  them  therfore 
praise  the  Lord,  because  he  is  good,  and  his  mercies  endure  for  ever.  Yea,  let 
them  which  have  been  redeemed  of  the  Lord,  shew  how  he  hath  delivered  them 
from  the  hand  of  the  oppressour.  When  they  wandered  in  the  deserte  [and] 
willdemes  out  of  the  way,  and  found  no  citie  to  dwell  in,  both  hungrie,  and 
thirstie,  their  sowle  was  overwhelmed  in  them.  Let  them  confess  before  the 
Lord  his  loving  kindnes,  and  his  wonderful!  works  before  the  sons  of  men.21 

No  New  England  historian  before  the  Revolution  recaptured  Brad- 
ford's individual  quality,  but  many  writers  stuck  to  his  idea  that  history 
should  commemorate  good  men,  give  sound  counsel  as  to  conduct,  and, 
above  all,  prove  the  power  of  God's  providence. 

John  Winthrop  (1588-1649),  governor  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay 
colony  for  many  years,  held  this  view.  His  journal,  which  is  not  a  history 
in  any  formal  sense,  reveals  him  as  a  man  of  culture  who  wrote  many 
paragraphs  of  controlled  and  simple  prose  which  are  often  impressive 
although  rarely  as  vivid  or  as  elevated  in  tone  as  Bradford's  best.  As 
historical  material  Winthrop's  work  is  immensely  valuable;  as  literature 
it  is  far  less  striking  than  the  "History  of  Plymouth  Plantation,"  although 
its  best  pages  entitle  it  to  a  high  place  among  the  American  journals  and 
diaries  of  its  period. 

The  first  attempt  at  a  "Just  and  Perfect  History"  of  A4assachusetts  Bay 
was  A  History  of  New-England,  from  the  English  planting  in  the  Yeere 
1628  iintill  the  Yeere  1652  (London,  1654)  by  Edward  Johnson  (1598- 
1672),  better  known  by  the  descriptive  title  used  on  the  running  headlines 
of  its  pages,  The  W onder -working  Providence  of  Sion's  Saviour  in  New 
England.  It  was  the  first  printed  large-scale  history  of  any  of  the  New- 
England  colonies  and  is  important  both  for  its  occasional  stylistic  virtues 
and  for  its  illustration  of  some  principles  of  Puritan  historiography. 

27  History,  Vol.  1,  pp.  156-158. 


74  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Johnson  was  born  in  England  and  came  to  Massachusetts  in  1630.  1 
joiner  by  trade  and  a  devout  Puritan  layman,  he  became  one  of  the 
founders  of  Woburn,  an  active  local  politician,  and  a  captain  in  thl 
militia.  That  office  must  have  pleased  him  especially,  for  his  book  is  full 
of  military  images.  It  is  basically  an  allegory,  in  which  New  Englanc 
ministers,  farmers,  sailors,  and  tradesmen  are  soldiers;  God  and  the  devil 
are  rival  generals;  colonization  is  heroic  campaigning;  and  the  successes 
of  the  godly  are  victories  in  arms.  The  gusto  with  which  Johnson  writes 
proves  that  his  allegory  was  the  natural  expression  of  his  feeling  aboutj 
the  colonial  adventure.  He  was  inspired  by  the  notion  that  he  was  God's 
champion  doing  battle  against  Satan. 

His  literary  skill  was  unhappily  no  match  for  his  zeal.  He  sometimes 
forgot  allegory  altogether  and  sometimes  let  it  run  away  with  him.  Hisj 
very  enthusiasm  betrayed  him  and  when  he  was  excited  his  sentences 
tumbled  helter-skelter  into  confusion.  At  times  he  felt  that  prose,  could 
not  do  justice  to  his  material  and  broke  into  verse  which  has  a  few 
surprisingly  good  lines  but  is  usually  awkward  and  flat.  But  his  book  is 
fascinating  still  for  anyone  who  has  patience  to  read  through  many  turgid 
pages  for  the  sake  of  the  few  in  which  he  conveyed  a  moving  impression 
of  his  central  theme,  the  crusading  spirit  of  the  Puritans. 

Already  there  were  signs  that  that  spirit  was  waning  and  that  the 
younger  generation  in  New  England  was  becoming  alarmingly  lukewarm 
in  religion.  How  was  Puritanism  to  be  kept  vigorous  in  British  colonies 
in  the  days  of  Charles  II,  in  spite  of  Anglicans,  Catholics,  impious  scientists, 
latitudinarians,  and  sceptical  rationalists?  In  Plymouth  the  authorities 
decided  a  history  would  help,  and  granted  public  funds  for  the  produc- 
tion of  New  Englands  Memoriall  (Cambridge,  1669)  by  Nathaniel  Morton 
(1613-85),  "A  brief  Relation  of  the  most  Memorable  and  Remarkable 
Passages  of  the  Providence  of  God,  manifested  to  the  Planters  . . .  With 
special  Reference  to  . . .  New-Plimouth."  2S  Morton  was  Bradford's 
nephew,  and  most  of  his  book  is  an  epitome  of  his  uncle's  work,  with 
little  of  its  artistry.  But  the  Memoriall  is  interesting  because  it  marks  a 
shift  in  the  intellectual  current  which  radically  affected  the  course  of 
New  England  historiography.  By  Morton's  time  the  doctrine  of  God's 
providence  had  to  be  argued  for,  and  on  page  after  page  he  emphasized 
it  more  than  his  uncle  had.  The  tone  is  that  of  an  exhortation  to  religious 
sluggards. 

Other  historians  wrote  in  the  same  vein.  King  Philip's  War,  with  its 
heavy  toll  of  property  and  lives,  was  a  special  incentive.  God  had 
chastened  New  England;  if  the  colonists  did  not  reform,  they  would  be 
ruined.  What  could  convince  them  of  this  better  than  historical  proof 
that  the  fate  of  the  colonies  had  always  been  determined  by  the  hand  of 
God? 

28  Title-page    (1669). 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  75 

In  Massachusetts  the  legislators  agreed  that  it  was  "necessary,  &  a  duty 
...  to  take  due  notice  of  all  occurrances  &  passages  of  Gods  providence 
towards  the  people"  and  granted  £50  to  the  Reverend  William  Hubbard 
for  his  general  history  of  New  England.29  Increase  Mather  also  saw  the 
edifying  possibilities  of  history  and  published  in  Boston  and  London  in 
1676  his  Brief  History  of  the  War  With  the  Indians  in  New-England, 
describing  King  Philip's  War  then  just  ended.  On  the  title  page  of  the 
Boston  edition  there  appear  in  very  large  type  the  words  "Together  with 
a  Serious  Exhortation  to  the  Inhabitants  of  that  Land,"  i.  e.  New  Eng- 
land.50 To  Mather  the  "Exhortation"— "the  thing  which  I  mainly  de- 
signed" 31— mattered  most;  the  history  was  really  only  the  evidence  to 
prove  that  to  be  lax  as  a  Christian  was  to  perish. 

Mather  followed  his  Brief  History  with  a  work  of  larger  scope,  A 
Relation  of  the  Troubles  which  have  hapned  in  New-England,  By  reason 
of  the  Indians  there:  From  . . .  1614  to  . . .  7675  (Boston,  1677).  ^  *s  better 
constructed  than  its  predecessor  and  Mather  shows  skill  in  weaving  to- 
gether material  from  various  sources  and  in  clothing  the  chronological 
skeleton.  He  was  interested  in  the  general  problems  of  method  and  style, 
and  his  care  in  listing  authorities,  his  attempt  to  follow  the  maxim  that 
history  should  deal  with  "who,  what,  where,  by  what  means,  why,  in 
what  way,  and  wmen,"  and  his  assertion  that  the  best  historical  prose  is 
the  simplest,  testify  to  the  fact  that  in  New  England  as  in  Old,  scholars 
were  seriously  studying  historiographical  techniques.  But  Mather  still 
made  providential  interpretation  the  core  of  his  book: 

There  have  been  two  Sorts  of  Men  designing  Settlement  in  this  Part  of 
America,  some  that  came  hither  on  Account  of  Trade  and  worldly  Interests . . . 
others  that  came  hither  on  a  religious  and  conscientious  Account . . .  the  former 
have  been  attended  with  blasting  ruining  Providences,  these  latter  have  been 
signally  owned  by  the  Lord  Jesus,  for  the  like  hath  been  rarely  known  in  the 
World,  that  a  Plantation  should  be  raised  out  of  nothing ...  to  such  con- 
siderableness  in  so  short  a  Time  . . .  This  is  the  Lords  doing,  and  it  is  marvellous 
in  our  Eyes.32 

Marvellous,  indeed;  too  marvellous  for  historians  to  go  on  swallowing 
in  an  age  of  increasing  rationalism. 

There  were  a  dozen  or  more  other  New  England  books  on  the  Indian 
wars,  some  of  them  bare  chronicles,  some  more  elaborate,  and  two  at 

29  Records  of  the  Governor  and  Company  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay,  ed.  N.  B. 
Shurtleff  (Boston,  1853-54),  Vol.  5,  pp.  378,  394-395. 

30  Thomas  J.  Holmes,  Increase  Mather:  A  Bibliography  (1931),  Vol.  1,  pp.  65,  68.  In 
the  London  edition  the  quoted  phrase  was  not  typographically  emphasized. 

31 1.  Mather,  A  Brief  History,  reprinted  as  The  History  of  King  Philip's  War, 
ed.  S.  G.  Drake  (Boston,  1862),  p.  37. 

3  2  I.  Mather,  A  Relation,  reprinted  as  Early  History  of  New  England,  ed.  S.  G. 
Drake  (Boston,  1864),  pp.  238-239. 


76  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

least  written  by  Quakers,  who  turned  the  tables  on  the  Puritans  by  declar- 
ing that  God  was  revenging  himself  against  the  persecutors  of  the 
Friends.  Most  of  these  works  have  no  literary  interest,  but  a  short  narra- 
rive  of  the  Pequot  War  by  John  Mason  (1600-72),  printed  by  Mather  in 
his  Relation,  is  vigorous  and  lively,  and  Colonel  Benjamin  Church's 
Entertaining  Passages  Relating  to  Philip's  War  (Boston,  17 16),  is  an  ex- 
citing book,  full  of  realistic  detail.  Church  was  an  old  man  when  it  was 
printed,  but  it  was  based  on  the  notes  he  made  when  he  was  a  famous 
Indian  fighter  and  has  the  flavor  of  a  good  story  told  by  an  old  cam- 
paigner reliving  his  days  of  daring.  The  very  title  shows  how  far  attitudes 
had  changed  by  17 16.  Church  wanted  to  be  "entertaining1'  and  did  not 
moralize  about  the  bloody  events  he  described.  Neither  did  Samuel 
Penhallow  (1665- 1726),  in  his  History  of  the  Wars  of  New-England 
with  the  Eastern  Indians  . . .  from  . . .  /705  to  ...  1713,  (Boston,  1726), 
a  straightforward  tale  of  "the  cruelty  and  perfidy  of  the  Indian  enemy."  33 
Penhallow  was  a  careful  workman,  a  reader  of  the  classics,  and  a  ration- 
alist who  was  less  interested  in  God  than  in  the  doings  of  men. 

Long  before  he  wrote,  while  Increase  Mather  and  others  were  still 
laboring  to  prove  that  the  Indian  wars  were  providential  warnings  and 
punishments,  William  Hubbard  ( 162 1?- 1704)  began  to  toy  with  a 
different  theory.  In  his  Narrative  of  the  Troubles  with  the  Indians  in 
New-England  (Boston,  1677),  ne  was  more  sceptical  than  most  of  his 
contemporaries  about  tall  tales  of  the  war  and  weighted  the  providential 
interpretation  less.  He  often  seems  more  interested  in  the  immediate 
natural  cause  of  an  event  than  in  its  significance  as  an  act  of  God,  and 
sometimes  suggests  that  a  rational  explanation  may  do  as  well  as  a  super- 
natural one.  The  savages  offered  no  "uncivil  Carriage  to  any  of  the 
Females,  nor  ever  attempted  the  Chastity  of  any  of  them,"  and  Hubbard 
says  that  this  was  "either"  because  thev  were  "restrained  of  God  .  .  .  or 
by  some  accidental  Cause,  which  held  them  from  doing  any  Wrong  in 
that  Kind."  34  The  "either"  must  have  troubled  strict  disciples  of  the 
providential  theory. 

Hubbard's  was  the  best  of  the  contemporary  histories  of  Philip's  war 
and  was  widely  read.  Now  and  then  details  and  digressions  clog  the  story 
but  on  the  whole  the  book  is  soundly  built.  Hubbard  was  often  deft  in 
choosing  evocative  images  and  in  catching  the  flavor  of  speech.  An  Indian, 
pursued  by  the  whites,  "over  hastily  plunged"  into  the  water,  slipped  on 
a  stone,  and  "his  Heart  and  his  Bow  els  turned  within  him,  so  as  he  be- 
came like  a  rotten  Stick,  void  of  Strength."  Captured  by  young  Robert 
Stanton,  he  said,  "  'You  much  Child,  no  understand  Matters  of  War;  let 
your  Brother  or  your  Chief  come,  him  1  will  Answer';  and  was  as  good 

■'■''  S.  Penhallow,  History,  in  New  Hampshire  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  Vol.  1   (1824),  p.  18. 
:ii  Narrative,  reprinted   as    The   History    of   the   Indian    Wars,   ed.   S.   G.    Drake 
(1865),  Vol.  1,  p.  167.  All  references  are  to  this  edition. 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  77 

as  his  Word.  Acting  herein  as  if  by  a  Pythagorean  Metempsychosis,  sonic 
old  Roman  Ghost  had  possessed  .  . .  this  Western  Pagan."  85 

Hubbard's  doubts  about  the  providential  interpretation  appear  again 
in  his  General  History  of  New  England  which  was  probably  finished  by 
1680.  He  said  that  the  colonists'  success  had  come  from  "the  industry  and 
diligent  pains  of  a  poor  people,  to  which  alone,  next  under  the  blessing 
of  Almighty  God"  it  must  be  ascribed.36  The  shaky  logic  of  this  suggests 
that  the  phrase  about  God  was  an  after-thought.  Hubbard  starts  out 
bravely  about  God's  benevolence  in  giving  New  England  good  harvests, 
in  spite  of  the  short  growing  season,  but  spoils  the  effect  for  the  orthodox 
by  his  conclusion  "that  the  salubriousness  of  the  air  in  this  country 
depends  much  upon  the  winter's  frost;  and  the  earth,  as  to  its  fruitfulness, 
is  as  much  beholding  to  the  summer's  heat,  and  influence  of  celestial 
planets."  ;:  Of  course  the  planets,  air,  and  frost  were  created  by  God, 
but  Hubbard  seems  less  concerned  with  divine  origins  than  with  imme- 
diate natural  causes.  He  foreshadows  an  attitude  toward  history  which 
was  to  be  turned  to  good  use  by  Thomas  Prince,  William  Douglass,  and 
Thomas  Hutchinson  in  the  next  century. 

The  histories  of  the  Indian  wars  were  written  not  only  to  remind  back- 
sliders of  God's  providential  power,  but  to  exploit  the  popular  taste  for 
anything  dealing  with  the  savages.  The  problem  of  the  Indians  could  not 
be  evaded,  and  almost  from  the  beginning  white  men  in  North  America 
began  to  form  opinions  about  them  which  persisted  long  after  they 
ceased  to  affect  the  lives  of  most  Americans.  The  horrors  of  King  Philip's 
War  went  far  to  stamp  out  any  notion  that  the  redskins  were  noble  or 
virtuous  and  did  much  to  instill  the  theory  that  Christian  charity  was 
wasted  on  them.  One  group  of  writings  celebrated  their  barbarity  or 
explained  that  if  they  were  not  always  barbarous,  it  was  because  God 
held  them  back.  These  writings,  the  "Indian  captivities,"  all  so  much  alike 
as  to  constitute  virtually  a  literary  type,  are  usually  hasty  journalistic 
efforts,  but  a  few  have  artistic  value  and  they  all  show  something  of  the 
source  of  the  later  American  doctrine  that  "the  only  good  Indian  is  a 
dead  Indian." 

Mary  Rowlandson  (c.  1635-c.  1678)  wrote  realistically  of  her  captivity 
among  the  savages,  interlarding  the  tale  with  reflections  on  the  providence 
of  God.38  She  wrote  as  she  probably  talked,  like  a  well-educated  house- 

35  Narrative,  Vol.  2,  p.  59. 

36  The  181 5  and  1848  Boston  editions  of  the  History  followed  a  defective  manu- 
script. In  1878  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society  was  given  a  transcript  of  a 
complete  manuscript  and  issued  in  sheets  the  text  of  the  portions  originally  lacking. 
The  quotation  is  from  p.  14  of  the  extra  sheets. 

37  History   (1848),  p.  21. 

38  Mary  Rowlandson,  The  Sovereignty  &  Goodness  of  God  Together,  With  the 
Faithfulness  of  His  Promises  Displayed;  Being  a  Narrative  of  the  Captivity  and 
Restauration  of  Mrs.  Mary  Rowlandson  (Cambridge,  1682).  References  are  to  this 
edition. 


78  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

wife  who  knew  the  Bible  and  had  heard  her  neighbors,  for  whom  her  ] 
husband  preached,  tell  good  stories  of  adventure.  Her  prose  is  that  of  a  ( 
tough-minded   and   strong-hearted   villager,   not   a   tragic    heroine   even  j 
though  her  plight  was  worthy  of  one.  "7  had  often  before  this  said,  that  | 
if  the  Indians  should  come,  I  should  chuse  rather  to  be  killed  by  them 
then  taken  alive  but  when  it  came  to  the  tryal  my  mind  changed;  their 
glittering  weapons  so  daunted  my  spirit,  that  I  chose  rather  to  go  along 
with  those  . . .  ravenous  Bears,  then  that  moment  to  end  mv  daves."  39 

Even  "ravenous  Bears"  could  not  force  her  out  of  the  ways  she  had  been 
taught  were  good.  When  King  Philip  himself  received  her  and  asked 
whether  she  "woold  smoke  it  (a  usual  Complement  now  a  dayes,  amongst 
Saints  and  Sinners),"  she  refused  and  reflected  on  her  progress  since  the 
days  when  she  "had  taken  two  or  three  pipes"  and  was  still  "ready  for  an- 
other." "There  are  many,"  she  wrote  tartly,  "who  may  be  better  imployed 
than  to  ly  sucking  a  stinking  Tobacco-pipe."  40 

Another  popular  book  of  the  same  kind  was  Gods  Protecting  Provi- 
dence: Man's  Surest  Help  and  Defence  . . .  Faithfully  related  by  . .  Jona- 
than Dickinson,  (Philadelphia,  1699).  Dickinson  (or  Dickenson)  (1663- 
1722)  was  a  Quaker  trader  who,  during  a  voyage  from  Jamaica  to  Penn- 
sylvania in  1696,  was  wrecked  on  Jupiter  Island,  Florida.  After  narrow 
escapes  and  many  hardships  among  the  Indians  he  made  his  way  to  Phila- 
delphia, where  he  eventually  became  a  prosperous  and  respected  citizen. 
His  book  was  a  journal,  not  meant  for  publication  but  given  to  the  press 
by  some  pious  Quaker  who  saw  it  might  prove  that  God  protected 
Friends.  The  style  is  without  literary  artifice  and  the  diction  is  usually  col- 
orless. Dickinson  let  the  facts  speak  for  themselves.  They  were  strange 
enough  to  be  exciting.  The  introduction  commended  his  story  to  the 
godly,  and  its  intrinsic  interest  attracted  more  frivolous  readers. 

Many  other  "captivity"  books  were  written  before  the  Revolution. 
They  were  popular  because  they  were  full  of  fights,  hairbreadth  escapes, 
and  triumphs  of  fortitude  and  chastity,  and  made  the  most  of  the  sensa- 
tional possibilities  in  their  material.  Even  the  devout  could  indulge  them- 
selves with  them,  since  they  could  be  defended  as  edifying  instances  of 
God's  providence.  They  served  also  as  anti-Indian  propaganda  when  it 
seemed  that  the  savages  must  be  crushed  and  as  incentives  to  patriotic 
fury  against  the  French  and  Spanish  Catholics,  since  the  Indians  were 
pictured  as  allies  of  England's  enemies  and  of  Rome. 

Ultimately  the  "captivities"  fell  to  the  level  of  "shilling  shockers." 
During  "the  first  three  quarters  of  the  nineteenth  century"  they  "con- 
tinued to  be  a  popular  journalistic,  terroristic  vehicle,"41   collateral  if 

'•'jK)  The  Soveraignty,  p.  5. 

40  The  Soveraignty,  p.  24. 

41  Roy  H.  Pearce,  "The  Significances  of  the  Captivity  Narrative,"  A?ner.  Lit.,  Vol. 
19  (March,  1947),  pp.  1-20. 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  79 

not  lineal  ancestors  of  the  unlovely  brood  of  current  sensational  "true 
stories"  and  the  cheap  "thrillers"  of  Hollywood. 

They  may  have  had  some  small  influence  for  good  in  that  they  kept 
alive  an  interest  in  storytelling  and  preserved  some  material  used  now 
and  then  by  poets,  novelists,  and  dramatists.  Unfortunately  it  is  pretty 
clear  that  in  the  colonial  period  itself  the  balance  was  on  the  debit  side. 
The  record  of  the  white  settlers'  treatment  of  the  Indians  might  have 
been  less  dark  if  there  had  not  been  so  many  colonial  books  which  painted 
the  heathen  as  devils  and  tempted  Christians  to  outdo  them  in  savagery. 

Happily  some  colonists  practiced  as  well  as  preached  Christian  virtues 
and  a  few  wrote  of  the  Indians  with  understanding  and  sympathy.  Chief 
among  them  was  a  New  England  historian,  Daniel  Gookin  (1612-87). 
He  came  to  this  country  about  1631  and  in  1641  he  brought  over  his  wife 
and  son  from  England  to  settle  permanently  in  Virginia.  When  that 
colony  passed  an  act  requiring  conformity  to  the  Church  of  England  he 
moved  to  Maryland  and  then  to  Boston.  There  he  was  successful  and 
content.  He  held  important  public  offices  and  became  a  major-general, 
since  he  was  "a  very  forward  man  to  advance  Marshal  discipline."  42  He 
staunchly  opposed  all  attacks  on  the  Massachusetts  charter  and  was  as 
intolerant  of  religious  heresy  as  he  was  of  invasions  of  colonial  "rights." 

From  the  days  when  he  first  lived  in  Roxbury,  a  friend  and  ally  of 
John  Eliot,  the  Indian  missionary,  he  worked  to  convert  the  savages  and 
to  protect  the  "Christianized  Indians"  from  their  inhumane  white  neigh- 
bors. This  was  all  very  well  as  long  as  the  redskins  were  docile,  but  when 
King  Philip  or  the  Pequots  became  unruly  the  saints  forgot  their  saintli- 
ness.  King  Philip's  War  led  to  New  England's  first  attack  of  postwar 
hysteria  and  its  people  behaved  as  badly  as  their  descendants  have  in  later 
epidemics.  Gookin,  who  had  toiled  for  years  to  teach  the  natives  the 
Christian  virtues  which  his  countrymen  forgot,  was  appalled.  The  people 
raged  against  all  Indians,  Christian  or  not;  mobs  called  for  the  execution 
of  native  prisoners  who  had  had  no  trial;  the  adjective  "praying,"  once 
applied  to  the  converts,  was  changed  to  "preying,"  and  Gookin  was 
denounced  as  a  traitor  to  his  people.  A  pamphleteer  reviled  him  for 
"taking  the  Indians  part"  and  proceeded  to  a  delighted  description  of  the 
peculiarly  cruel  execution  of  an  Indian  by  the  whites.  The  victim  died 
only  when  a  member  of  his  own  race  cut  short  the  torture  which  his 
civilized  conquerors  were  happily  inflicting.  The  pamphleteer's  comment 
was  that  "the  Dog-like  death"  was  "good  enough"  for  the  wretched 
victim.43 

Fortunately,  Gookin  was  supported  by  some  of  the  responsible  citizens, 

42  E.  Johnson,  Wonder-Working  Providence,  ed.  J.  F.  Jameson  (1910),  p.  230. 

43  The  Present  State  of  New  England  with  Respect  to  the  Indian  War  ...by  a 
Merchant  of  Boston  (London,  1676),  quoted  in  Frederick  W.  Gookin,  Daniel  Gookin 
(1912),  pp.  147-148. 


8o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  as  soon  as  the  war  was  over  he  calmly  resumed  his  missionary  work. 
The  hysteria  ran  its  course  and  he  won  back  the  people's  respect.  He 
continued  unshaken  in  his  old  ways  and  wrote  An  Historical  Account 
of  the  Doings  and  Sufferings  of  the  Christian  Indians  in  New  England, 
which  he  dated  December  18,  1677,  and  sent  to  Robert  Boyle  in  England. 
It  was  admirable  both  for  its  liberal  and  humane  ideas  and  for  its  sound 
structure  and  its  even  and  direct  style.  Gookin  wrote  with  the  calmness 
of  the  true  historian  and  made  his  case  convincing  by  the  impressive  mar- 
shalling of  facts  in  orderly,  dignified,  and  often  deeply  moving  form. 
He  had  shown  the  same  qualities  in  an  earlier  work,  Historical  Collections 
of  the  Indians  in  New  England,  which  he  sent  to  London  in  1674;  the 
two  books  entitle  him  to  a  high  place  in  colonial  letters. 

At  the  end  of  his  Historical  Collections,  Gookin  presented  his  plan  for 
a  general  history  of  New  England  on  which  he  was  working.  It  is  a  pity 
it  has  not  survived  since  his  published  writings  proved  his  fitness  for  the 
task.  He  believed  it  wTas  "a  matter  of . .  .  great  concernment  for  the 
honour  of  God  and  the  good  of  men,"  and  therefore  ventured  in  his 
"old  age,  and  in  a  plain  style,  to  draw  some  rude  delineaments  of  God's 
beautiful  work  in  this  land."  He  would  try  to  draw  "according  to  truth," 
in  order  to  instruct  his  children  and  "contribute  some  little  help  to  a 
more  able  pen,  to  set  forth  the  same  thing,  more  exactly  and  exquisitely 
garnished,  in  after  times."  44 

The  first  general  history  of  New  England  to  be  printed  was  unlike 
anything  Gookin  would  have  done.  Cotton  Mather's  Magnolia  Christi 
Americana  (London,  1702),  was  not  in  a  "plain  style."  It  celebrates 
"God's  beautiful  work,"  but  Mather  was  not  the  man  to  efface  him- 
self as  Gookin  would  have.  In  many  pages  his  vigorous  personal  likes 
and  dislikes  and  his  missionary  zeal  on  behalf  of  his  own  beliefs  almost 
eclipse  the  historical  narrative,  and  some  of  his  rhetoric  and  display  of 
learning  was  pretty  clearly  the  product  of  his  vanity. 

The  Magnalia  has  often  been  misjudged.  It  has  been  criticized  for  in- 
accuracy and  bias  and  its  author  has  been  accused  of  superstitious  credulity. 
It  has  many  errors,  as  any  folio  of  nearly  eight  hundred  pages  is  likely  to, 
but  they  are  not  all  Mather's,  since  he  had  no  chance  to  read  the  proofs. 
He  did  his  best  to  correct  some  of  the  worst  mistakes  by  adding  a  page 
of  errata  to  some  of  the  published  volumes  but  this  has  survived  in  only 
a  few  copies  and  its  corrections  have  not  been  included  in  any  modern 
edition.  Since  it  is  impossible  to  read  the  Magnalia  as  its  author  meant 
it  to  be  it  is  unfair  to  blame  him  for  all  the  faults  of  the  printed  version. 
Even  with  them  the  book  is  about  as  faithful  to  fact  as  most  con- 
temporaneous work  of  the  kind  here  or  abroad.  Mather  was  biassed 
by  his  Puritanical  reforming  zeal  and  his  eagerness  to  demonstrate  God's 
providence  and  he  included  "marvels"  which  no  sober  modern  historian 

44  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  series  1,  Vol.  1   (1792),  p.  86.  ^       v 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  81 

would  accept.  In  his  time,  however,  most  of  his  tall  tales  were  credible 
to  scholars.  The  Fellows  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London,  the  chief 
intellectual  lights  of  England,  printed  as  scientific  truth  many  tales  as 
wild  as  his  and  did  not  regard  him  as  superstitious. 

The  Magji alia  has  been  called  formless  but  it  was  on  the  whole  well 
organized.  It  mingles  narrative  history  and  biography,  but  both  are  used 
to  develop  three  closely  related  themes— the  virtues  of  New  England's 
religious  way,  the  danger  of  backsliding,  and  the  need  for  reform.  The 
"lives,"  the  "remarkable  providences,"  the  theological  expositions,  and 
the  straight  historical  narrative,  all  bear  on  the  central  doctrines  which 
Mather  uses  as  principles  of  interpretation.  To  critics  who  no  longer 
find  those  doctrines  important  or  interesting,  the  book  seems  shapeless; 
Mather's  readers  who  shared  his  beliefs  easily  understood  its  structure. 
His  method  was  not  new  or  exceptional.  Thomas  Fuller,  the  Anglican 
divine  and  wit,  was  only  one  of  the  many  historians  and  biographers 
who  had  used  it.  Fuller's  History  of  the  Worthies  of  England  (1662) 
helped  to  teach  Mather  how  revealing  a  biographical  approach  could  be, 
his  Church  History  of  Britain  (1655)  was  a  volume  no  serious  ecclesias- 
tical historian  could  ignore,  and  his  history  of  Cambridge  University 
(1655)  may  well  have  suggested  to  the  author  of  the  Magnolia  that  one 
section  of  his  book  should  be  given  to  the  story  of  Harvard.45 

Mather's  history  was  written  in  his  "Massy"  style,  which  has  already 
been  discussed.  The  prose  is  freighted  with  quotations  and  allusions, 
bookish  references,  or  echoes  of  well-known  stories  or  proverbial  lore. 
There  are  elaborate  similes  and  innumerable  scraps  of  Latin,  Hebrew, 
and  Greek.  To  us  they  seem  like  learned  lumber  clogging  the  progress 
of  the  story,  but  Mather  believed  that  his  "embellishments"  of  quotation 
and  allusion  were  "choice  flowers."  He  knew  he  would  be  called  pedantic 
but  thought  such  a  charge  could  apply  only  to  "little  smatterers  at  read- 
ing and  learning."  Properly  used  and  based  on  sound  knowledge  his  was 
"the  best  way  of  writing."  46 

There  is  a  basic  principle  behind  this.  History  was  for  Mather  more 
than  a  record  of  events  in  one  area  at  one  period.  Properly  written,  it  was 
a  revelation  of  human  action  and  divine  law,  timeless  in  its  significance. 
To  parallel  a  New  England  village  preacher  with  a  classical  philosopher 
or  to  liken  a  happening  in  Massachusetts  or  the  sayings  of  a  colonial 
governor  to  an  episode  in  antiquity  or  the  pronouncements  of  sages  in 
Palestine,  Rome,  Geneva,  or  London,  might  drive  home  the  oneness  of 
history  and  show  how  everything  human  and  divine,  past  or  present, 
was  linked  to  an  immutable  set  of  values.  There  was  a  pattern  of  pre- 

45  The  late  William  W.  Fenn  traced  most  of  the  quotations,  allusions,  and 
references  in  the  Magnalia  to  their  sources.  His  notes  supply  the  evidence  for  my 
comments  on  Mather's  use  of  Fuller. 

46  Magnalia,  "General  Introduction,"  Vol.  1,  p.  31  in  the  Hartford,   1853,  edition. 


82  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

destined  change  and  progress  from  Eden  to  eighteenth-century  Boston. 

Given  an  understanding  of  the  conventions  of  early  seventeenth- 
century  prose  which  Mather  followed  and  a  taste  for  the  "wit"  of  the 
period,  readers  can  still  get  pleasure  from  many  of  his  pages.  His  history 
belongs  "among  the  great  works  of  English"— and  American— "literature  | 
in  the  Seventeenth  Century."  47  That  New  England  produced  after  less 
than  a  hundred  years  of  settlement  so  considerable  an  artistic  and  his- 
torical achievement  is  an  index  of  how  deeply-rooted  was  the  Puritans' 
respect  for  history  and  how  diligently  they  labored  to  perfect  themselves 
in  writing  it. 

Of  the  other  eighteenth-century  New  England  historians  only  a  few 
deserve  attention  today.  One,  Thomas  Prince  (1687-1758),  wrote  A 
Chronological  History  of  New  England  in  the  Form  of  Annals,  the  first 
part  of  which  came  out  in  Boston  in  1736.  Its  spare  annalistic  method  gave 
its  author  little  scope  to  show  any  literary  talent,  but  it  is  significant  for 
the  change  in  historical  emphasis  it  displays.  The  advance  of  rationalism, 
the  spread  of  deistic  ideas,  and  the  growing  tendency  to  center  on  man 
and  his  world  rather  than  on  providence,  made  for  increased  concern 
for  scientific  accuracy  in  recording  material  cause  and  effect.  Prince  was 
a  minister,  but  also  a  student  of  current  literature  and  a  scholar,  and 
reflected  the  new  attitudes  of  his  generation.  In  loyalty  to  the  Puritan 
tradition  he  believed  all  happenings  should  be  recorded,  but  he  did  not 
harp  on  their  providential  significance. 

He  advertised  for  material  by  sending  out  questionnaires  and  diligently 
combed  over  manuscript  and  printed  authorities,  just  as  a  modern 
"scientific"  historian  would.  He  determined  not  to  "take  the  least  iota 
upon  trust,"  since  "a  writer  of  facts  cannot  be  too  critical"  and  ought  to 
cite  "vouchers  to  every  passage."  When  he  had  good  sources  he  followed 
them  exactly,  enclosing  his  own  additions  in  brackets  or  printing  them 
so  that  their  origin  was  plain.  He  struggled  for  impartiality  but  saw,  as 
modern  historians  have,  that  it  was  impossible  to  achieve  completely  and 
"that  many  are  partial  who  are  insensible  of  it."  But  he  defined  his  own 
bias  as  a  warning  to  his  readers: 

...  I  am  on  the  side  of  pure  Christianity,  as  also  of  civil  and  religious  liberty; 
and  this  for  the  low  as  well  as  the  high,  for  the  laity  as  well  as  the  clergy;  I  am 
for  leaving  every  one  to  the  freedom  of  worshipping  according  to  the  light 
of  his  conscience;  and  for  extending  charity  to  every  one  who  receives  the 
Gospel  as  the  rule  of  his  faith  and  life;  I  am  on  the  side  of  meekness,  patience, 
gentleness  and  innocence;  and  I  hope,  my  inclination  to  these  great  principles 
will  not  bias  me  to  a  misrecital  of  facts;  but  rather  to  state  them  as  I  really  find 
them  for  the  public  benefit.48 

47  Barrett  Wendell,  Cotton  Mather  (1926),  pp.  161-162.  For  a  contrary  opinion  see 
Ralph  and  Louise  Boas,  Cotton  Mather   (1928),  p.  264. 
4H  History   (1826  edition),  pp.  438-439,  xiv-xv,  xx,  xxi. 


COLONIAL  HISTORIANS  S3 

It  remained  for  others  to  combine  Prince's  scrupulousness  in  research 
with  concern  for  literary  effect.  William  Stith  (1707-55)  took  a  step  in 
that  direction  in  his  History  of  the  First  Discovery  and  Settlement 
of  Virginia  (Williamsburg,  1747),  but  his  writing  was  often  dull,  and  the 
scale  of  his  book,  which  in  more  than  three  hundred  pages  carries  his 
Story  only  to  1624,  makes  it  forbidding  except  for  special  students  of 
Virginian  beginnings.  At  about  the  same  time,  however,  a  New  England 
historian,  William  Douglass  (c.  1 691- 1752),  wrote  a  would-be  "scientific" 
history  which  has  also  some  literary  value— A  Summary,  Historical  and 
Political,  of  the  . . .  British  Settlements  in  North-America.A,)  Douglass  was 
born  and  trained  in  medicine  in  England  and  settled  in  Boston  in  17 18. 
As  a  scientist  he  neglected  the  providential  aspect  of  history;  as  a 
European-bred  scholar  he  occasionally  sneered  at  the  "provincial"  Ameri- 
cans; but  he  recognized  with  shrewd  foresight  that  the  colonies  were  so 
closely  linked  that  there  was  need  for  "a  solid  certain  Foundation  for  the 
Histories  of  these  Countries  in  Times  to  come."  He  liked  the  New  World 
and  was  annoyed  by  "romantick"  accounts  of  it  and  by  the  "indistinct 
Notion"  of  it  which  prevailed  abroad.  He  wrote  professedly  as  a  sceptic 
and  rationalist  and  took  pleasure  in  exposing  the  errors  of  those  whom 
he  considered  superstitious  zealots  or  slaves  of  ernotion,  but  fortunately 
for  the  reader  he  had  plenty  of  prejudices  himself  and  aired  them  in  crisp 
prose.  Given  a  stupid  opponent  to  attack  or  an  intellectual  heresy  to 
explode  he  could  be  lively  and  often  brilliant.  He  knew  that  "Descrip- 
tions and  bare  Relations"  could  be  "insipid  and  tedious"  and  therefore 
added  "a  little  Seasoning."  "Where  a  mica  Salis  occurs  ...  it  is  not  designed 
with  any  malicious  invidious  View.  For  the  same  Reason,  a  small  Digres- 
sion, but  not  impertinent  to  the  Subject,  is  now  and  then  made  Use  of; 
as  also  some  short  Illustrations."  50 

Prince's  passion  for  accuracy  and  Douglass'  taste  for  literary  effect 
are  combined  in  The  History  of  the  Colony  and  Province  of  Massachusetts 
Bay,  by  Thomas  Hutchinson  (171 1-80).  He  was  a  successful  merchant 
and  politician  who  became  royal  governor  of  Massachusetts.  Devoted 
to  his  native  country  he  nonetheless  believed  the  British  Empire  should 
be  left  intact  and  worked  to  find  means  by  which  the  colonies  could 
be  kept  within  the  fold  without  giving  up  their  essential  freedom.  His 
house  was  sacked  by  hotheaded  patriots  and  he  had  at  last  to  seek  refuge 
in  England  where  he  died,  bitterly  homesick  for  Massachusetts. 

He  wras  a  careful  scholar  and  wrote  an  even,  sober  style  with  few 
striking  passages  but  still  fewer  that  fall  below  the  level  of  the  lucid  and 
easy  prose  favored  by  the  English  historians  of  his  time.  The  best  literary 
qualities  of  his  book  are  the  orderly  movement  of  the  narrative,  the  skill 

49  Published  originally  in  parts  and  collected  in  two  volumes  (Boston,  1749  and 
1750. 

50  William  Douglass,  Summary   (1749),  Vol.  1,  p.  1. 


84  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  the  biographical  sketches,  and  the  tone  of  balanced  moderation  which 
is  conveyed  almost  as  much  by  the  restrained  diction  and  the  quiet  rhvthm 
of  the  prose  as  by  the  sense  of  the  words. 

To  achieve  such  a  tone  was  a  literary  triumph.  The  champions  of 
freedom  treated  Hutchinson  with  lawless  violence,  but  he  wrote  of  them 
with  surprising  calmness.  They  showered  him  with  epithets,  but  in  his 
history  he  refused  to  come  down  to  their  level  and  tried  to  write  as  a 
just  man,  not  an  angry  one.  "I  have  found  some  difficulty,"  he  admitted, 
kkin  guarding  against . . .  prejudice"  and  here  and  there,  especially  in  what 
he  omitted  or  slighted,  he  showed  that  the  task  had  been  too  hard,  but 
even  so  his  ''narrative  history  in  a  philosophical  manner"  is  from  the 
historiographical  point  of  view  the  best  American  work  of  its  day,  and 
from  the  literary,  a  book  of  solid  merit.51  It  illustrates  admirably  the 
maturity  which  the  art  and  science  of  historiography  attained  in  America 
before  the  Revolution. 

51  Thomas  Hutchinson,  History,  ed.  Lawrence  S.  Mayo  (1936),  Vol.  1,  p.  xxix; 
John  S.  Bassett,  "The  Historians,  1607- 1783"  in  CHAL,  Vol.  1,  p.  30. 


Chapter  6 


ASPECTS  OF  EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY 
COLONIAL  CULTURE 

The  population  of  the  colonies  in  1700  has  been  estimated  at  250,000, 
with  more  than  a  third  in  New  England.  By  1775  there  were  probably 
about  ten  times  as  many  colonists,  with  somewhat  less  than  a  third  east 
of  the  Hudson.  The  most  thickly  settled  areas  were  along  the  coast,  east 
of  the  Appalachian  chain,  but  every  year  there  were  new  outposts  further 
west.  Boston,  New  York,  Philadelphia,  Charleston,  Annapolis,  Williams- 
burg, and  Newport  were  important  cultural  centers  by  the  time  of  the 
Revolution,  but  most  of  the  colonists  still  lived  in  the  country,  and  in 
1790  Philadelphia,  by  then  the  largest  city,  still  had  less  than  45,000  in- 
habitants.1 

In  the  large  towns,  there  were  merchants,  storekeepers,  artisans  and 
laborers  of  many  sorts;  there  were  fishermen  all  along  the  coast.  Inland 
there  were  lumbermen  and,  wherever  the  soil  was  workable,  farmers. 
Some  of  these  were  large  proprietors;  others  cultivated  small  tracts  which 
they  owned  or  leased.  On  the  frontier  pioneers  were  clearing  the  forests 
to  make  new  farms.  Racially  British  stock  predominated,  but  there  were 
Irish  and  Scotch-Irish,  many  of  whom  came  during  the  eighteenth 
century;  Scandinavians,  Dutch,  Germans  and  French.  Some  of  them  kept 
the  cultural  habits  of  the  countries  they  had  left;  others  melted  quickly 
into  the  American  alloy.  Religious  differences  were  as  marked  as  the 
racial.  Members  of  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church,  Catholics,  Swedish 
Lutherans,  French  Huguenots,  Scotch-Irish  Presbyterians,  German 
pietists,  Newr  England  Congregationalists,  and  Anglicans  followed  their 
separate  ways  of  worship  and  belief  in  the  New  World. 

1  Cf .  Stella  H.  Sutherland,  Population  Distribution  (1936),  p.  xii,  and  maps  facing 
pp.  62,  158,  222;  Evarts  B.  Greene  and  Virginia  D.  Harrington,  American  Population 
(1932),  p.  7;  and  Samuel  E.  Morison  and  Henry  S.  Commager,  The  Growth  of  the 
American  Republic  (Oxford  University  Press,  1942),  Vol.  1,  p.  502. 

85 


86  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Even  among  men  of  the  same  race  and  creed  there  were  lines  of 
cleavage.  The  two  most  important  for  literary  history  were  those  between 
city  dwellers  and  rural  folk  and  between  the  residents  of  the  more 
prosperous  coastal  areas  and  the  settlers  in  the  back  country.  As  the  towns 
grew  and  commerce  and  manufacture  developed,  fortunes  were  made, 
and  a  colonial  aristocracy  of  plantation  owners  and  business  men  estab- 
lished itself.  It  was  American  in  that  it  depended  far  more  on  wealth 
accumulated  here  than  on  inherited  rank  or  social  connections  abroad, 
but  it  usually  followed  English  models.  In  the  rural  areas  to  the  west  of  the 
great  southern  plantations  and  the  large  towns  there  were  less  money  and 
leisure.  There  was  often  jealousy  or  downright  hostility  toward  the 
sophisticated  and  rich.  The  pioneer  settlements  on  the  advancing  frontier 
helped  to  fix  democratic  ideas,  since  they  had  to  assert  their  rights  and 
find  political  means  to  share  in  the  government  in  the  face  of  the  powerful 
property  holders.  In  other  ways  they  tended  to  be  conservative  and  to 
cling  to  the  customs,  faiths,  and  standards  their  first  American  ancestors 
had  cherished.  The  old  strict  Puritanism,  for  example,  declined  faster 
in  the  New  England  towns  than  in  the  villages. 

With  such  differences  among  the  colonists  to  reckon  with,  it  is  not 
surprising  that  Andrew  Burnaby,  an  Englishman  who  travelled  here  in 
1759  and  1760,  declared  America  could  never  be  a  "potent  state"  because 
"fire  and  water  are  not  more  heterogeneous  than  the  different  colonies."  2 
If  he  had  made  a  longer  stay  he  might  have  seen  the  powerful  forces 
which  were  working  against  his  theory.  Some  of  them  appear  in  the 
American  writings  already  discussed— a  growing  love  for  the  actual 
physical  aspect  of  the  New  World,  the  sense  of  accomplishment  felt  by 
the  pioneer  adventurers,  the  local  patriotisms  which  blended  into  a  larger 
emotional  zeal  for  the  New  World  as  more  promising  than  the  Old. 
Other  factors,  too,  encouraged  intercolonial  understanding— the  fear  of 
the  French  and  Indians  to  the  north  and  west  of  the  British  settlements 
and  of  the  Spaniards  to  the  south;  the  common  dislike  of  British  imperial 
policies  which  interfered  with  the  colonist's  trade  and  manufacturing. 
When  Indian  wars  threatened,  representatives  of  the  several  colonies  were 
willing  to  meet  and  discuss  their  common  problems.  The  frontiersman 
might  dislike  seaboard  capitalists,  and  the  rich  might  worry  at  the  failure 
of  the  rabble  to  keep  its  place,  but  when  an  English  stamp  tax  was  imposed 
it  was  protested  against  as  an  invasion  of  the  rights  of  all  the  colonists 
rich  or  poor,  and  some  men  were  led  to  forget  their  grievances  against 
their  countrymen  in  their  new  feeling  against  Britain. 

After  the  Stamp  Act  Congress  in  1765  a  South  Carolinian  declared, 
"There  ought  to  be  no  New  England  men,  no  New  Yorker,  &c,  known 

2  Andrew  Burnaby,  Travels  through  the  Middle  Settlements  in  North  America,  in 
the  Years  i~iyj  and  1760  (3rd.  edition,  London,  1798),  pp.  118,  121-122. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  87 

on  the  Continent,  but  all  of  us  Americans."  :!  Many  colonists  were  ready 
to  agree.  The  process  by  which  it  became  possible  in  1765  to  think  of 
"all  of  us  Americans"  was  complex;  our  immediate  concern  is  with  the 
aspects  of  colonial  intellectual  and  artistic  culture  which  illustrate  what 
happened  and  with  the  way  in  which  writers,  scholars,  and  artists,  fostered 
intercolonial  solidarity  of  feeling  and  thought. 

"The  first  drudgery  of  settling,  which,"  Franklin  said,  "confines  the 
attention  of  people  to  mere  necessaries,"  left  the  colonists  little  leisure  to 
cultivate  art.4  But,  when  conditions  became  easier,  the  settlers  showed  that 
emigration  had  not  stifled  their  aesthetic  impulses.  At  first  the  racial 
groups  were  apt  to  keep  to  the  European  modes  they  knew  best,  but  when 
the  settlements  became  more  stable  there  were  better  opportunities  for 
the  colonists  to  seek  satisfaction  in  work  more  characteristically  their 
own.  For  the  most  part  their  attitude  was  utilitarian,  but  when  they  had 
to  choose  among  equally  practical  designs  for  a  candlestick,  a  blanket 
chest,  a  cottage  or  a  mansion,  or  had  to  select  a  style  to  follow  in  painting 
an  inn  sign  or  a  portrait,  their  preferences  were  often  partly  dictated  by 
local  principles  and  ways  of  life.  European  influence  was  still  dominant  but 
the  climate  in  which  the  colonial  craftsman  lived,  the  material  he  had 
to  use,  and  the  attitudes  of  the  society  he  belonged  to,  modified  his  work. 
By  the  late  eighteenth  century  there  were  houses,  household  furniture, 
a  little  music  and  a  few  paintings,  which,  although  they  were  heavily  in- 
debted to  Europe,  bore  the  stamp  of  their  New  World  origin. 

It  is  possible  to  see  some  parallelism  between  the  Puritan  "plain  style" 
or  the  Quakers'  distrust  of  vain  adornment  and  the  modifications  of 
English  fashions  made  by  colonial  craftsmen.  American  houses,  cottages, 
and  barns,  functional  in  line  and  sound  in  proportions;  portraits  emphasiz- 
ing homely  and  realistic  representation  of  strong  faces  rather  than  the 
carefully  elaborated  painting  of  backgrounds  and  costumes  characteristic 
of  Lely  or  Kneller;  and  household  objects  which  were  beautiful  in 
pattern  but  less  decorated  than  their  counterparts  in  England,  show  the 
operation  of  artistic  principles  comparable  to  those  used  by  typical 
colonial  writers  of  prose  and  verse.  Music  flourished  less  than  the  other 
arts  since  proficiency  in  it  required  more  training  than  most  colonists  had 
time  for  and  since  its  practical  utility  was  not  easily  demonstrable.  But 
English  and  German  ballads  were  sung  and  sometimes  altered  to  give 
them  a  local  flavor,  congregational  singing  was  improved,  some  excellent 
foreign  music  was  played,  especially  by  the  Moravians  in  Pennsylvania, 
and  a  few  native  composers  reached  limited  audiences.  Similarly  belles 

3  Letter  from  Christopher  Gadsden  to  Charles  Garth,  Dec.  2,  1765  in  R.  W.  Gibbes, 

Documentary  History  of  the  American  Revolution ...  1764-1776  (1855),  p.  8. 

4  Benjamin  Franklin,  A  Proposal  for  Promoting  Useful  Knowledge  among  the 
British  Plantations  in  America  (Philadelphia,  1743),  in  The  Writings  of  Benjamin 
Franklin,  ed.  Albert  H.  Smyth  (1907),  Vol.  2,  p.  228. 


88  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

lettres  gradually  found  a  place,  and  by  the  mid-eighteenth  century  a  fair 
number  of  colonial  essayists  and  makers  of  light  verse  were  writing  in 
the  manner  of  the  London  wits  but  often  with  significant  local  modifica- 
tions in  theme. 

An  important  analogy  of  the  literary  to  the  nonliterary  artistic  activi- 
ties of  the  colonists  involves  the  differences  between  the  rich  planters 
and  the  city  business  men  and  the  less  prosperous  rural  dwellers.  The 
former  liked  Georgian  houses  and  English  paintings,  furniture,  and  silver. 
They  dressed  in  the  London  mode  and  collected  "gentlemen's  libraries" 
from  English  bookshops.  An  observer  in  1771  thought  that  "a  new 
fashion  is  adopted  earlier  by  the  polished  and  affluent  American,  than  by 
many  opulent  persons  in"  London.  "Very  little  difference  is  . .  .  observ- 
able in  the  manners  of  the  wealthy  colonist  and  the  wealthy  Briton."  5 

The  less  "polished  and  affluent"  had  no  direct  dealings  with  foreign 
capitals.  They  did  not  send  their  sons  abroad  to  be  educated,  as  some  of 
their  rich  neighbors  did,  especially  in  the  South.  For  them  a  straight- 
forward painted  likeness  was  as  precious  as  a  canvas  by  Kneller.  A  warm 
cottage  and  a  solid  barn,  a  hard-wearing  homespun  suit,  some  sturdy 
furniture  and  a  few  books— a  Bible,  an  almanac,  a  history  or  two,  and  a 
handful  of  practical  manuals  of  husbandry,  politics,  moral  counsel  or 
medicine— sufficed. 

Since  the  would-be  aristocrats  had  money  and  leisure  for  books  most 
American  writing  in  the  first  two-thirds  of  the  eighteenth  century  was 
intended  for  them  and  therefore  followed  fashionable  foreign  models.  A 
few  documents,  however,  were  aimed  at  the  larger  colonial  audience  and 
they  seem  now  the  most  "American"  since  they  expressed  interests  and 
attitudes  common  to  the  whole  colonial  community  and  contributed  to 
the  eventual  creation  of  a  national  literature.  They  are  often  comparable 
to  the  plain  but  vigorous  architecture,  representational  painting,  and 
solidly  built  furniture  which  most  of  the  colonists  knew  best. 

The  fact  that  the  various  classes  in  the  colonies  developed  some  rudi- 
mentary artistic  standards  of  their  own  probably  helped  to  develop  com- 
munity of  feeling.  The  buildings,  songs,  books,  and  furniture  which  had 
come  to  typify  home  to  the  aristocrat  or  the  plebeian,  the  rich  man's 
mansion  and  the  farmer's  cottage  or  the  village  tavern,  must  have  sym- 
bolized to  their  owners  their  status  as  citizens  of  a  country  they  had  won 
for  themselves. 

The  increase  of  scientific  interest  in  the  colonies,  the  secularization  of 
society,  and  the  relatively  tolerant  acceptance  of  an  ethical  system  based 
on  reason  rather  than  revelation,  encouraged  unity.  As  early  as  1683  a 
scientific  society  began  in  Boston  and  some  of  its  contributions  were  given 
consideration  abroad;  a  medical  society  was  started  in  Boston  in  1736  and 
followed  by  others  in  New  York,  New  Jersey,  Connecticut,  and  South 

5  William  Eddis,  Letters  from  America (London,  1792),  pp.  112-113. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  89 

Carolina;  the  American  Philosophical  Society  was  founded  in  Philadelphia 
in  1743  an^  by  1 77 1  had  elected  two  hundred  and  thirteen  scholars  from 
eleven  of  the  colonies  and  twenty-five  from  Europe.'5  The  members  of 
such  societies  corresponded  with  each  other  and  formed  a  reasonably 
coherent  class  of  American  savants  bound  together  by  common  interests. 
They  must  often  have  felt  closer  to  distant  compatriots  with  similar 
scholarly  tastes  than  to  the  less  erudite  in  their  own  towns.  They  did 
some  valuable  scientific  work,  and  a  considerable  number,  Cotton  Mather 
and  Byrd  among  them,  were  elected  to  the  Royal  Society  in  London. 
They  helped  greatly  in  disseminating  accurate  knowledge  of  the  colonial 
area  and  in  developing  practical  means  of  improving  colonial  conditions. 
In  so  doing  they  made  it  clear  that  there  were  problems  common  to  all 
the  settlements  and  that  all  the  settlers  might  work  together  in  solving 
them. 

The  more  they  learned  and  taught  the  more  they  dampened  the  re- 
ligious zeal  which  originally  fired  various  segments  of  the  colonial  com- 
munity. The  more  Newtonian  physics  was  understood  and  accepted  the 
easier  it  was  to  think  of  the  natural  order  as  governed  by  demonstrable 
laws  of  physical  cause  and  effect  which  man  could  rationally  compre- 
hend. There  was  an  increasing  tendency  to  test  inherited  faiths  by  reason, 
to  concentrate  on  this  world  rather  than  the  next,  and  to  relegate  God 
to  the  role  of  a  creator  who,  having  designed  the  world  and  set  it  in  mo- 
tion, let  it  run  according  to  mechanical  laws. 

Success  in  agriculture  and  commerce  also  helped  to  fix  men's  minds  on 
material  rather  than  spiritual  ends.  In  an  expanding  and  prosperous  coun- 
try it  was  hard  to  believe  that  man  was  irretrievably  lost  except  for  the 
arbitrary  intervention  of  an  inscrutable  God.  It  was  hard  to  cling  to 
primitive  simplicity;  rich  Quakers  forgot  the  dangers  of  earthly  vanities 
and  some  Puritans  turned  into  Anglicans.  Boston  sported  "an  elegant . .  . 
concert-room,  highly  finished  in  the  Ionic  manner,"  and,  for  the  Church 
of  England,  an  "exceedingly  elegant"  King's  Chapel.  "Arts  and  Sciences," 
Burnaby  thought,  had  "made  a  greater  progress"  in  Massachusetts  "than 
in  any  other  part  of  America"  and  there  was  there  "a  more  general  turn 
for  music,  painting,  and  the  belles  lettres."  7  Boston's  change  from  a  town 
dominated  by  Puritan  preachers  to  one  which  matched  in  worldly  "ele- 
gance" any  English  community  except  London  was  only  one  example 
of  how  increasing  prosperity  furthered  the  secularization  of  the  colonies. 

Of  course  there  were  still  defenders  of  the  old  ways,  but  among  the 
sophisticated  in  the  cities  church-going  was  often  no  more  than  a  polite 
bow  toward  convention  and  sermons  were  sometimes  nothing  but  grace- 
ful  exercises   in  sentimental   piety.   Merchants,   shopkeepers,   and   sober 

G  Kenneth  B.  Alurdock,  Increase  Mather  (1926),  pp.  147-148;  Michael  Kraus,  Inter- 
colonial Aspects  (1928),  p.  143,  160-162. 
7  Burnaby,  Travels  (1798),  pp.  103,  108. 


90  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

workmen  agreed  that  the  churches  helped  to  maintain  useful  moral  stand- 
ards, but  thev  were  losing  the  old  conviction  that  true  morality  depended 
on  faith  and  devotion  to  God.  They  inclined  to  the  softer  doctrine  that 
the  sober  and  industrious  would  prosper  in  this  world  and  be  rewarded 
in  the  next. 

The  ideas  of  the  Enlightenment  were  accepted  by  many  of  the  more 
cultivated  colonists.  Belief  in  "man's  ability  to  understand  the  universe 
without  supernatural  revelation,"  in  "the  original  worth  and  dignity  of 
all  men,"  and  in  the  duty  of  "the  comfortable  to  alleviate  the  harsh  lot 
of  the  poverty-stricken  and  ignorant . . .  and  the  victims  of  irrational  and 
inhumane  social  conditions,"  8  made  theological  differences  between  sects 
seem  unimportant  and  had  obvious  implications  for  politics,  education, 
and  literature. 

Ideas  would  have  been  relatively  powerless  without  the  means  of  com- 
munication which  the  colonies  had  developed  by  the  mid-eighteenth 
century.  Schools  and  colleges,  printers,  booksellers,  and  private  and  pub- 
lic libraries  were  important  links  in  the  chain  which  gradually  brought 
the  colonies  into  a  measure  of  intellectual  concord. 

The  New  England  Puritans  believed  education  was  an  aid  to  godliness 
and  by  1647  ^ac^  established  a  fairly  workable  system  of  public  instruc- 
tion in  schools.  Elsewhere,  where  there  were  many  differences  in  re- 
ligion or  the  people  were  not  concentrated  in  villages  and  towns,  the 
public  support  of  education  gained  little  headway  in  the  colonial  period, 
although  the  Anglicans  and  some  of  the  other  sects,  especially  the  Quakers, 
often  provided  schools  for  their  disciples.  Rich  colonists  hired  private 
tutors  or  maintained  classes  for  their  own  children  and  those  of  their 
social  equals.  A  few  schools,  financed  privately,  charitably  admitted  poor 
children,  and  the  churches  usually  took  care  of  the  offspring  of  their 
members,  wealthy  or  not. 

The  "lower  classes"  learned  little  but  the  "three  R's."  "The  higher  learn- 
ing was  closely  identified  with  the  higher  classes"— they  were  interested 
in  "practical"  education,  but  "Latin,  Greek,  and  mathematics  . .  .  were 
especially  esteemed"  because  they  were  thought  to  have  disciplinary  value 
and  because  they  "furnished  the  fortunate  with  intellectual  adornments 
which  set  them  off  from  the  poor . . .  served  to  distinguish  the  gentleman 
from  the  peasants  and  workers . . .  and  provided  an  agreeable  employment 
for  the  leisure  hours  of"  the  self-styled  aristocrat  who  believed  that 
"superior  intellect"  characterized  his  class.9 

For  all  its  inadequacies  secondary  education  in  the  colonies  provided  a 
large  literate  group  and  gave  to  a  considerable  proportion  of  the  people 
more  intellectual  equipment  than  the  mere  ability  to  read  and  write. 
From  the  beginning,  too,  some  colonists  saw  how  useful  colleges  might 

8  Merle  Curti,  Growth  of  American  Thought  (1943),  p.  103. 

9  Curtis  P.  Nettels,  Roots  of  American  Civilization  (1938),  p.  486. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  91 

be  to  train  men  for  the  professions  and  intellectual  and  political  leader- 
ship. In  Virginia  this  was  recognized  very  early,  but  the  dispersed  popula- 
tion and  the  predominantly  material  interests  of  many  of  the  settlers, 
together  with  the  feeling  on  the  part  of  some  of  the  aristocrats  that  the 
less  learning  the  people  had  the  more  docile  they  would  be,  delayed  the 
founding  of  a  college.  In  1693,  however,  James  Blair  got  a  royal  charter 
for  William  and  Alary  in  Williamsburg.  Wealthy  Virginians  might  con- 
tinue to  send  their  sons  abroad  to  be  educated,  but  there  was  now  a  chance 
for  those  who  held  that  England's  "luxury"  was  bad  for  those  bred  to  a 
"more  simple  and  Less  Costly  way  of  Living"  in  America.  To  them  it 
seemed  unfortunate  to  have  every  Virginian  lawyer,  statesman,  magistrate, 
and  "ingenious  gentleman"  trained  abroad.10 

The  New  England  Puritans  had  felt  similarly  when  they  founded  Har- 
vard in  1636.  In  1 70 1  it  seemed  to  some  of  the  faithful  to  have  declined 
from  strict  Puritan  standards,  and  Yale  was  started  in  Connecticut  to 
preserve  orthodoxy.  Dartmouth,  established  in  1769,  was  also  a  product 
of  New  England  Congregationalism.  King's  College,  now  Columbia,  was 
founded  fifteen  years  earlier  by  Anglicans;  the  College  of  New  Jersey, 
later  Princeton,  in  1747  by  Presbyterians;  Queen's  College,  later  Rutgers, 
in  1766,  by  members  of  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church;  and  Rhode  Island 
College,  now  Brown,  two  years  earlier  by  Baptists. 

The  Charitable  School  of  1740  in  Philadelphia  became  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania,  and  was  the  only  one  of  the  nine  colonial  colleges  which 
was  not  originally  sectarian.  But  in  spite  of  their  origins  all  of  them  moved 
gradually  away  from  the  old  curricula,  centered  on  the  classics,  Hebrew, 
ethics,  and  metaphysics.  Mathematics,  modern  foreign  languages,  English 
literature,  and  science  gained  ground.  The  secularization  of  the  courses 
of  study  and  of  the  interests  of  students  and  teachers  went  on  steadily,  if, 
in  the  more  conservative  institutions,  slowTly. 

The  colleges  had  books  for  students  and  instructors;  prosperous  towns- 
folk and  ministers  had  large  collections  which,  especially  in  New  England, 
were  often  made  accessible  to  their  neighbors.  Other  libraries,  public  and 
semipublic,  were  soon  set  up.  The  Anglican  Society  for  Propagating  the 
Gospel  provided  many,  particularly  in  Maryland;  South  Carolina  had 
a  public  library  in  1700;  a  circulating  library  opened  in  Boston  in  1756; 
and  in  Philadelphia  the  Library  Company,  founded  by  Benjamin  Franklin, 
greatly  influenced  "library  building  in  the  colonies"  so  that  between 
"1745  and  1763  no  less  than  seventeen  were  founded."  lx 

In  all  the  large  towns  there  were  booksellers,  dealing  in  domestic  and 
imported  wares,  and  some  of  the  cheaper  items  were  carried  by  peddlers 
into  the  country.  In  New  England  the  book  trade  was  especially  active, 

10  Speech  of  a  student  at  William  and  Mary  College,  May  1,  1699,  in  Wm.  and  Mary 
Quart.,  Series  2,  Vol.  10  (Oct.,  1930),  pp.  327,  328. 

11  Thomas  J.  Wertenbaker,  Golden  Age  of  Colonial  Culture  (1942),  pp.  70-71. 


92  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  dealt  in  some  importations  like  the  Earl  of  Rochester's  poems  which 
were  certainly  not  designed  for  Puritan  eyes.12  The  books  on  sale  in  the 
eighteenth-century  colonies  represented  all  kinds  of  subjects,  grave  and 
gay,  and  few  English  authors  of  any  repute  were  unknown  on  the 
counters  of  Boston,  Philadelphia,  and  Charleston. 

The  printers  supplied  almanacs,  newspapers,  and  magazines,  as  well 
as  books  by  native  authors.  Stephen  Daye  began  in  Cambridge  in 
1638,  and  was  followed  by  Foster  in  Boston  in  1675.  During  the  next 
century  presses  were  set  up  in  Maine,  New  Hampshire,  Connecticut, 
Rhode  Island,  and  Vermont.  The  earliest  Philadelphian  printer  was 
William  Bradford,  who  became  in  1693  the  first  to  practise  his  craft  in 
New  York.  There  was  probably  printing  in  New  Jersey  as  early  as  1723 
but  the  first  permanent  press  began  in  1754.  The  beginning  in  Delaware 
was  in  1761,  in  Maryland  in  1685,  in  South  Carolina  in  173 1,  in  North 
Carolina  in  1749  and  in  Georgia  in  1763.  After  an  abortive  attempt  in 
1682  printing  began  in  Virginia  in  1730.13 

As  roads  improved  printed  matter  could  be  more  easily  circulated  and 
the  town  printers  were  more  easily  accessible.  The  size  of  the  colonial 
"reading  class"  cannot  be  precisely  estimated,  but  it  seems  sure  that  it 
was  big  enough  to  enable  any  writer,  whose  work  could  be  expected  to 
sell,  to  find  a  local  publisher.  John  Mein,  a  Boston  bookseller,  thought 
there  was  in  1756  a  demand  for  volumes  which  would  "amuse  the  man 
of  leisure,"  give  "relaxation  to  the  minds  of  men  of  business"  and  "insinu- 
ate knowledge  and  instruction  under  the  veil  of  entertainment  to  the 
fair  sex."  Books  were  needed  also  to  supply  the  pious  with  "that  exalted 
satisfaction  which  flows  from  the  serious  study  of  the  Christian  religion" 
and  to  offer  to  the  merchant  "a  complete  history  and  description  of  those 
countries  to  which  he  ...  traded."  14  Plain  laboring  men,  the  idle  poor, 
and  the  frivolous— except  for  the  "fair  sex"  which  Mein  obviously  put 
in  that  category— were  apparently  not  to  be  pleased  by  books.  But  they 
must  now  and  then  have  rejoiced  in  a  ballad,  a  humorous  verse,  or  a  news 
sheet.  There  were  even  some  books  for  children. 

The  more  colonists  of  all  classes  read  the  easier  it  was  for  them  to  share 
a  common  store  of  information  and  ideas.  The  more  they  knew  about  the 
conditions  and  problems  which  affected  all  the  settlements,  the  more  apt 
they  were  to  identify  themselves  as  Americans  and  not  merely  Virginians 
or  New  Englanders  or  Englishmen  living  away  from  home.  The  ponder- 
ous books  were  left  alone  by  most  of  the  simpler  folk,  but  they  could  and 
did  buy  other  reading  matter  which  kept  them  in  touch  with  the  intel- 
lectual currents  of  the  day. 

12  Thomas  G.  Wright,  Literary  Culture  in  Early  New  England,  1620-17 30  (New 
Haven,  1920),  pp.  126,  191-193,  122. 

13  Lawrence  L.  Wroth,  The  Colonial  Printer  (1938),  p.  42. 

1  '  Boston  Evening-Post,  February  17,  1746,  quoted  in  YVertenbaker,  Colonial  Cul- 
ture, pp.  27-28. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  93 

There  were,  for  example,  the  almanacs,  which  were  issued  almost  as 
;oon  as  there  were  presses  to  print  them.  They  became  one  of  the  most 
mportant  means  of  intellectual  and  literary  communication  throughout 
;he  settlements.  An  almanac  was  indispensable  in  an  American  household, 
rhe  astronomical  data  were  important  for  farmers  and  fishermen,  and 
Vestiges  of  the  old  belief  in  the  influence  of  the  stars  on  human  affairs 
nade  them  interesting  to  others  as  well.  Moreover,  the  almanac  had  be- 
:ome  by  the  eighteenth  century  much  more  than  a  table  of  facts.  It  usually 
contained  bits  of  proverbial  wisdom,  verses,  and  other  kinds  of  entertain- 
ing or  informative  reading.  As  soon  as  several  American  almanacs  began 
to  compete  for  favor,  the  writers  were  forced  to  try  to  increase  their 
popularity  by  the  quantity  and  quality  of  the  literary  material  they 
offered.  Their  readers  wanted  the  useful,  the  entertaining,  the  realistic, 
and  the  familiar,  and  the  authors  adapted  themselves  to  their  audience. 

The  earliest  American  almanac  seems  to  have  come  out  in  Cambridge 
in  1639.  Others  followed,  keeping  pace  with  the  growth  of  printing  and 
population.  Benjamin  Franklin's,  begun  in  1732,  was  the  most  famous,  but 
it  was  preceded  by  many  others,  some  of  them  quite  as  good.  In  1729, 
for  example,  at  least  nine  were  issued,  and  the  supply  did  not  diminish.15 
The  quality  varies  with  the  skill  of  the  individual  authors,  but  even  when 
the  attempts  at  wit  are  most  unsuccessful  and  the  original  efforts  in  prose 
and  verse  most  flat,  they  give  valuable  clues  to  popular  interests  and 
literary  tastes.  When  inspiration  flagged  the  hard-pressed  scribes  often 
filled  out  their  pages  with  quotations,  and  hundreds  of  colonists  probably 
got  their  introduction  to  some  major  English  authors  through  these  ex- 
cerpts. 

The  almanac  started  in  1726  by  Nathaniel  Ames  (1708-64)  of  Ded- 
ham,  Massachusetts,  and  continued  by  him  and  his  son,  Nathaniel  Ames 
(1741-1822),  until  1775  is  an  excellent  example  of  its  genre.  It  discusses 
topics  ranging  from  natural  phenomena  in  Hungary  to  "An  Account  of 
the  several  Provinces  in  North-America,"  and  from  tobacco,  snuff,  and 
punch,  to  "Newtonian  philosophy."  1G  There  are  allusions  to  Locke, 
Bacon,  and  a  bevy  of  other  philosophers  and  scientists;  there  are  extracts 
from  Dry  den,  Pope,  Blackmore,  Samuel  Butler,  and  Milton.17  There  are 
sober  lines  on  serious  topics,  and  humorous  prophecies,  one  of  which 
expresses  the  meteorological  caution  forced  on  New  Englanders  by  their 
climate:  'There  will  be  Weather  this  Week  tho'  I  say  nothing  about 
it."  The  same  brand  of  humor  appears  in  the  prognostication  for  Novem- 
ber, 1728:  "Debates  about  Religion  by  those  that  have  none."  Commence- 
ment Day  at  Harvard  is  succinctly  described: 

15  Charles  Evans,  America?!  Bibliography    (1903-34)'  Vol.  1,  p.  437- 

16  Samuel  Briggs,  Essays,  Humor,  and  Poems   (1891),  pp.   184,   266-269,  352-354, 
140-141. 

1 7  See  references  in  Briggs'  index. 


94  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Much  Money  sunk, 
Much  Liquor  drunk.1  s 

The  robustness  of  some  of  the  jesting  proves  that  the  almanacs  were 
not  meant  for  prudes,  and  the  satire  shows  that  they  were  not  designed 
for  the  conservatively  conventional.  Ames'  remark  that  "When  the 
Clergy  are  at  the  bottom  of  the  Plot,  they  are  wise  enough  to  slip  their 
Necks  out  of  the  Collar,  and  leave  the  Laity  to  suffer"  was  not  made  for 
reverent  Puritans.  Would-be  aristocrats  were  mocked  in:  "American 
Pedigree  is  as  much  respected  as  a  delicate  Pair  of  Hands  in  a  House  of 
Poverty  and  there  is  no  Merit  in  either."  19 

In  the  verse  for  March,  1730,  there  is  an  interesting  attempt  to  repro- 
duce phonetically  the  broken  English  of  an  Indian,  and  scores  of  other 
passages  show  a  similar  striving  for  realism.  The  farmers  are  praised— an 
index  of  the  audience  for  wThich  the  almanacs  were  written— and  one  of 
them  is  made  to  say: 

I  eat,  drink,  and  sleep,  and  do  what  I  please, 
The  King  in  his  Palace  can  only  do  these.20 

There  are  constant  political  references  and  reflections  on  the  future 
of  America,  intellectual  as  well  as  material.  "The  Progress  of  Humane 
Literature  (like  the  Sun)  is  from  the  East  to  the  West,"  and  Ames 
prophesied: 

. . .  Arts  and  Sciences  will  change  the  Face  of  Nature  in  their  Tour  from  Hence 
over  the  Appalachian  Mountains  to  the  Western  Ocean . . .  the  Stones  and 
Trees  will  dance  together  at  the  Music  of  Orpheus— the  Rocks  will  disclose 
their  hidden  Gems,— and  the  inestimable  Treasures  of  Gold  &  Silver  be  broken 
up.  Huge  Mountains  of  Iron  Ore  are  already  discovered;  and  vast  Stores  are 
reserved  for  future  Generations:  This  Metal  more  useful  than  Gold  and  Silver, 
will  imploy  Millions  of  Hands,  not  only  to  form  the  martial  Sword,  and 
peaceful  Share,  alternately;  but  an  Infinity  of  Utensils  improved  in  the  Exercise 
of  Art,  and  Handicraft  amongst  Men  . . .  "all  fit  Matter  shall  be  improved  to 
its  best  Purposes."— Shall  not  then  those  vast  Quarries,  that  teem  with  mechanic 
Stone,— those  for  Structure  be  piled  into  great  Cities,— and  those  for  Sculpture 
into  Statues  to  perpetuate  the  Honor  of  renowned  Heroes;  even  those  who 
shall  NOW  save  their  Country.— O!  Ye  unborn  Inhabitants  of  America!  Should 
this  Page  escape  its  destin'd  Conflagration  at  the  Year's  End,  and  these 
Alphabetical  Letters  remain  legible,— when  your  Eyes  behold  the  Sun  after 
he  has  rolled  the  Seasons  round  for  two  or  three  Centuries  more,  you  will 
know  that  in  Anno  Domini  1758,  we  dream'd  of  your  Times.21 

The  role  of  the  newspapers  was  somewhat  like  that  of  the  almanacs, 
but  their  circulation  was  less  wide.  By  1765  only  one  family  in  twenty 

ls  Briggs,  Essays,  pp.  72,  56,  351. 

I!'  Briggs,  Essays,  pp.  448-449,  162,  448. 

20  Briggs,  Essays,  pp.  66,  318. 

21  Briggs,  Essays,  pp.  285-286. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  95 

egularly  saw  a  newspaper,  and  even  if  it  is  assumed  that  four  or  five 
*ead  each  copy,  it  seems  probable  that  less  than  a  quarter  of  the  people 
iiad  access  to  one,  and  that  most  of  them  lived  in  or  near  large  towns.22 
Ehere  was  nonetheless  a  considerable  demand  and  by  1765  there  were 
wenty-three  American  newspapers,  one  in  every  colony  except  Delaware 
md  New  Jersey.  Boston  had  four,  New  York  three,  and  Philadelphia 
hree,  one  of  which  was  in  German.  With  the  Revolutionary  crisis  and 
:he  coming  of  the  war  they  took  on  new  importance  and  by  1783  journal- 
sm  was  high  in  popular  esteem  and  an  essential  element  in  American 
:ultural  life. 

The  first  newspaper  which  lasted  for  more  than  one  issue  was  the 
Boston  Neivs-Letter,  which  was  not  started  until  1704,  sixty-five  years 
ffter  the  first  almanac.  It  was  more  expensive  to  print  a  weekly  or  monthly 
paper  than  an  almanac  once  a  year,  and  success  was  possible  only  when 
roads  were  improved  enough  to  make  deliveries  reasonably  prompt, 
bid  only  within  the  limits  of  some  measure  of  governmental  tolerance. 
Some  colonial  governors  tended  to  look  suspiciously  at  any  printing  which 
might  spread  ideas  dangerous  to  their  authority.  When  in  1734  the  Neiv- 
York  Weekly  Journal  offended  Governor  Cosby,  its  editor,  Peter  Zenger, 
[was  jailed.  His  lawyer  reminded  the  jury  that  their  verdict  might  "affect 
every  freeman  that  lives  under  a  British  government  on  the  main  of 
America,"  and  pleaded  for  "the  cause  of  liberty ...  the  liberty  both  of 
exposing  and  opposing  arbitrary  power  by  speaking  and  writing  Truth."  23 
Zenger  was  acquitted,  but  even  after  1734  prudent  publishers  were  more 
politically  cautious  than  they  might  have  been  had  there  been  no  pos- 
sibility of  interference  by  royal  officers. 

Newspaper  publication  did  not  begin  in  Virginia  until  1736,  in  Georgia 
until  1763,  and  in  North  and  South  Carolina  until  175 1  and  173 1  respec- 
tively. Philadelphia  had  its  first  paper  in  17 19,  New  York  in  1725,  and 
Maryland  two  years  later.  Outside  of  Boston  five  New  England  towns 
started  newspapers  between  1755  and  1762. 

The  early  journals  concentrated  on  foreign  news,  but  the  editors  in- 
cluded also  such  information  as  they  could  get  about  affairs  in  the  other 
colonies.  There  were  few  editorials  in  the  modern  sense,  and  editorial 
comment  was  usually  disguised,  perhaps  because  of  possible  censorship, 
in  "contributed  letters  . . .  addressed  to,"  and  sometimes  written  by,  "the 
editors"  or  in  "extracts  from  published  books  and  pamphlets."  24  Gradu- 
ally more  and  more  literary  material  was  printed  and  by  the  middle  of 
the  eighteenth  century  most  of  the  papers  carried  some,  often  simply 
for  "filler"  when  news  was  scarce,  but  sometimes  in  a  deliberate  effort 
to  attract  readers  who  wanted  entertainment  as  well  as  news.  English 

22  Frank  L.  Mott,  American  Journalism  (1941),  p.  59. 

23  Quoted  in  Mott,  American  Journalism,  p.  37. 

24  Mott,  American  Journalism,  p.  54. 


96  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

periodical  essays  were  imitated  by  native  authors  or  reprinted;  a  few 
English  plays  and  parts  of  plays  appeared;  Pope,  Dryden,  and  Butler 
were  quoted  and  used  as  models  by  colonial  versifiers.  The  newspaper 
came  to  be,  like  the  almanac,  a  means  of  keeping  Americans  in  touch 
with  literature  abroad  and  an  outlet  for  their  own  writing. 

The  quality  of  that  writing  differed  greatly  in  the  various  papers.  Much 
was  slavishly  imitative  of  contemporary  English  works,  but  some  bits 
tried  to  picture  the  American  scene,  discussed  topics  of  special  interest 
to  the  colonists,  and  had  the  ring  of  genuinely  native  and  popular  ex- 
pression. 

The  New  England  Courant,  founded  by  James  Franklin  in  172 1,  was 
modelled  on  the  Spectator,25  but  its  tone  was  less  polite.  Franklin  wanted 
to  win  the  rank  and  file  who  were  restive  under  the  domination  of  clerics 
and  aristocrats  and  the  Couranfs  personal  vituperation,  its  irresponsible 
attitude  toward  fact,  and  its  sensationalism,  entitle  it  to  the  dubious  honor 
of  being  the  first  American  "yellow  journal."  It  was  nonetheless  highly 
entertaining  and  contains  a  good  deal  of  excellent  "American"  writing] 
especially  in  the  contributions  written  by  James  Franklin's  brother,  Benja- 
min. The  first  of  his  "Dogood  Papers"  follows  the  first  Spectator  almost 
word  for  word,  but  it  introduces  a  "Leather  Apron  Man,"  a  familiar 
touch  calculated  to  please  laborers  in  Boston,  and  later  Prudence  Dogood 
devotes  herself  to  ridiculing  the  conventional  New  England  funeral 
elegy,  which  she  thought  should  always  be  shaped  in  "the  empty  Scull 
of  some  young  Harvard:' 2G  Elsewhere  there  is  another  sneer  at  "young 
scribbling  collegians,"  Cotton  Mather  is  ridiculed,  and  rival  printers  are 
abused.27 

The  New-England  Weekly  journal,  which  lasted  from  1727  to  1741, 
was  more  decorous.  Mather  Byles,  Governor  Burnet,  and  Thomas  Prince 
wrote  for  it,  and  there  was  no  question  about  its  respectability.  The  essay 
of  the  Spectator  type  was  its  chief  reliance.  Politics  were  kept  in  the 
background  and  the  topics  treated  were  "education,  the  place  of  women, 
laughing,  dress"  and  "contemporary  fads."  28  The  "popular"  quality  of 
the  Courant  was  lost,  but  the  Journal  printed  much  good  writing  which 
treated  local  interests  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  eighteenth-century 
genteel  in  Boston. 

The  Virginia  Gazette,  established  in  Williamsburg  in  1736  and  continued 
until  1750,  is  noteworthy  for  "The  Monitor,"  a  series  of  essays  "sprightly, 
witty,  dramatic  in  method,  full  of  the  opera,  the  theater,  tea-table  gossip, 
and  slander,  playful  slurs  on  the  fashions  over  games  of  piquet,  town 

2~>  Isaiah  Thomas,  The  History  of  Printing  in  America  in  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc.  Trails, 
and  Coll.,  Vol.  5  (1874),  p.  no. 

26  Elizabeth  C.  Cook,  Literary  Influences  in  Colonial  Newspapers  (191 2),  p.  29; 
Writings  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  ed.  Smyth,  Vol.  2,  pp.  2,  24. 

27  Cook,  Literary  Influences,  pp.  23,  28. 
2b  Alott,  American  journalism,  p.  22. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  97 

beaux  in  'tupee'  wigs,  and  other  aspects  of  London  life."  29  That  it  was 
London  life  is  an  index  of  the  extent  to  which  fashionable  Virginia  identi- 
fied itself  with  the  English  capital.  "The  Monitor'1  may  even  have  been 
a  reprint  of  some  undiscovered  English  essay  series,  but  it  does  contain 
a  few  American  allusions.  There  is  little  in  the  whole  Gazette,  however, 
which  would  not  have  passed  current  in  London  as  well  as  Williamsburg, 
and,  high  as  its  literary  quality  often  is,  it  is  too  imitative  to  have  much 
interest  for  students  of  our  native  writing. 

In  contrast,  Benjamin  Franklin's  Pennsylvania  Gazette,  begun  in  Phila- 
delphia in  1729,  is  far  less  derivative  than  most  of  the  newspapers  of  its 
day.  It  was  less  deferential  to  British  standards  than  its  Virginian  rival, 
and  less  respectful  of  genteel  conventions  and  more  concerned  with  the 
man  in  the  street  than  the  New-England  Weekly  Journal. 

During  the  eighteenth  century,  communication  between  the  colonies 
and  with  Europe  became  easier.  News  became  more  plentiful,  and  editors 
gave  less  space  to  belles  lettres.  Benjamin  Franklin  saw  that  the  time  was 
coming  when  the  literary  must  be  given  a  better  journalistic  medium 
than  the  newspaper  and  started  an  American  magazine.  The  first  number 
of  his  General  Magazine  and  Historical  Chronicle  for  All  the  British 
Plantations  in  America  came  out  on  February  16,  1741,  missing  by  three 
days  the  distinction  of  being  the  first  American  production  of  its  kind. 
On  February  13,  Andrew  Bradford  had  put  out  The  American  Magazine; 
or  a  Monthly  View  of  the  Political  State  of  the  British  Colonies.  It  died 
in  March  with  its  third  number;  Franklin's  periodical  expired  in  June  with 
its  sixth.  Although  thirty-one  colonial  magazines  were  started  before  1788, 
less  than  a  third  of  them  lasted  for  as  long  as  two  years.  English  magazines 
were  imported,  and  native  products  had  to  compete  with  them;  a  "national 
circulation"  was  impossible  because  of  the  slowness  of  the  mails  and  the 
absence  in  many  areas  of  any  large  group  of  readers  with  leisure  and 
money  enough  to  afford  anything  but  the  most  indispensable  printed 
matter. 

The  eighteenth-century  magazine  was  what  its  name  suggests— a  store- 
house of  material.  Some  of  it  was  original,  but  a  great  deal  was  reprinted 
from  books  or  other  periodicals.  There  were  essays,  verse,  articles  on 
politics,  science,  religion,  and  the  useful  arts,  digests  and  summaries  of 
news,  excerpts  from  new  books,  and  occasionally  even  some  literary 
criticism.  The  editors  usually  followed  rather  than  formed  the  tastes  of 
their  public  and  tried  to  fill  their  pages  with  material  so  varied  that  there 
would  be 

Some   Thing   suited   to   each   different  Gou[t], 
To  humour  Him  and  Her,  and  vie,  and  You.30 

29  Cook,  Literary  Influences,  p.  185. 

30  Quoted  in  Lyon  N.  Richardson,  Early  American  Magazines  (1931),  p.  i3<5n, 
from  The  New-Engla?id  Magazine  of  Knowledge  and  Pleasure,  no.  1   (1758),  p.  1. 


98  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

This  shotgun  method,  designed  to  cover  as  broad  a  target  as  possible, 
reduced  most  of  the  magazines  to  a  tameness  which  could  not  disturb 
the  conservative  and  kept  them  on  a  literary  level  within  the  reach  of 
any  reasonably  well-schooled  reader.  George  Washington  was  probably 
right,  however,  in  praising  them  as  "easy  vehicles  of  knowledge,  more 
happily  calculated  than  any  other,  to  preserve  the  liberty,  stimulate  the 
industry  and  meliorate  the  morals  of  an  enlightened  and  free  People."  31 
He  was  shrewd,  too,  in  saying  nothing  about  any  possible  "melioration" 
of  native  literature;  the  magazines  did  more  to  spread  useful  knowledge; 
and  moral  and  political  instruction  than  to  help  colonists  scale  Parnassus. 
They  do,  however,  contain  work  by  men  who  were,  or  became,  major 
figures  in  our  literary  annals— for  example,  Franklin,  Freneau,  and  Paine. 

There  were  also  minor  figures  who  deserve  to  be  remembered  as  men 
of  letters.  One,  William  Livingston,  has  already  been  mentioned  as  a 
workmanlike  but  derivative  versifier.  He  edited  The  Independent  Re- 
flector, which  published  fifty-two  numbers  before  November,  1753, 
when  it  was  "tyrannically  suppressed."  He  championed  "the  civil  and 
religious  RIGHTS  of"  his  "Fellow-Creatures,"  insisted  on  "the  amiable 
Charms  of  Liberty ,"  and  attacked  the  Anglican  church's  support  of  a 
sectarian  college  in  New  York.  Livingston  wanted  a  religiously  free  in- 
stitution, publicly  supported  in  part  at  least,  with  a  curriculum  not  con- 
centrated on  the  classics  and  rhetoric,  but  planned  "to  qualify  Men  for 
the  different  Employments  of  Life."  32  That  the  Reflector  did  not  survive 
is  an  indication  of  the  wisdom  of  those  American  editors  who  avoided 
controversial  topics. 

William  Smith  (1727-1803)  was  as  definite  as  Livingston  in  his  opin- 
ions. A  Scotsman  and  a  Doctor  of  Divinity  from  Aberdeen,  he  came  to 
this  country  in  1751.  He  vigorously  favored  the  French  and  Indian  war, 
hated  George  Whitefield  and  the  revival  movement  known  as  the  "Great 
Awakening,"  and  attacked  Quaker  pacifism,  thereby  opening  himself  to 
assaults  from  all  sides.  He  had  good  friends,  nonetheless,  who  admired 
him  and  his  General  Idea  of  the  College  of  Mirania  (New  York,  1753), 
which  he  wrote  as  a  plan  for  a  university  in  New  York.  His  champions 
got  him  an  appointment  as  Provost  of  the  "College,  Academy,  and 
Charitable  School"  which  later  became  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 
In  1757  he  became  chief  editor  of  the  American  Magazine;  or  Monthly 
Chronicle  for  the  British  Colonies,  which,  under  the  guidance  of  a  "Society 
of  Gentlemen,"  continued  for  a  year  and  was  "the  most  vital  and  original 
literary  magazine  published  in  America  before  the . . .  Revolution."  Smith 
loved  literature  and  included  four  series  of  "Monthly  Essays,"  written  by 

31  Letter  to  iMathcw  Carey,  June  25,  1788,  in  The  Writings  of  George  W ashington 
from  the  Original  Manuscript  Sources,  1145-1199-,  ed-  John  C.  Fitzpatrick  (Washington, 
1931-44),  Vol.  30,  p.  8. 

:i2  See  quotations  in  Richardson,  Early  American  Magazines,  pp.  364-365,  82,  84. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  99 

The  Antigallican,"  "The  Planter,"  "The  Prattler,"  and  "The  Hermit."  ' :: 
The  manner  of  each  was  that  of  the  English  periodical  essayists,  but  the 
matter  was  sometimes  fresh,  the  conventional  devices  were  usually  well 
handled,  and  the  literary  level  often  high.  Smith  wrote  the  "Hermit" 
series,  indulging  in  romantic  musings  on  the  charms  of  nature,  the  beauties 
of  solitude,  the  virtues  of  Anglican  Protestantism  and  the  British  govern- 
ment, and  the  wonders  of  God's  Providence  expressed  in  the  physical 
world.  He  was  a  conservative  and  his  style  was  that  of  a  cultured  Anglican 
divine,  but  in  a  few  bits  of  observation  or  natural  description,  and  in 
some  allusions,  he  betrayed  that  he  was  by  adoption  a  Philadelphian. 

His  best  service  to  American  literature  was  his  editorial  hospitality  to 
native  writers.  Thomas  Godfrey  (1736-63),  later  to  achieve  fame  for  his 
drama,  The  Prince  of  Parthia,  wrote  for  the  magazine  odes  and  pastorals 
in  the  fashions  of  Dryden,  Pope,  and  Gray.  Francis  Hopkinson  (1737-91) 
revealed  his  musical  talent  in  the  technical  ease  of  his  imitations  of  Milton 
and  Addison.  James  Sterling  (iyoi?-63),  a  Maryland  minister,  addressed 
one  poem  to  the  English  novelist,  Richardson,  and  in  another  lamented 
the  death  of  Alexander  Pope,  whom  he  had  known.34  He  issued  a  formal 
invitation  to  the  Muses  to  come  to  America  and  join  the  naiads  and  dryads 
of  the  Delaware  River  valley.  Sterling's  "poetical  brat  was  conceived  in 
North  America^  gave  "its  first  squeak  in  the  world"  in  the  American 
Magazine,  and  might,  he  observed,  deserve  only  to  be  thrown  away.35 
His  apologetic  tone  shows  the  attitude  of  Smith's  poetic  flock,  who  were 
uniformly  obsequious  to  English  standards  and  modest  to  the  point  of 
servility  about  their  efforts.  They  demonstrated  to  American  readers  that 
neat  verses  could  be  written  in  the  colonies,  but  they  developed  no  char- 
acteristically native  themes  or  techniques  until  later.  Nevertheless,  Smith 
did  well  to  give  them  a  hearing  since  he  thereby  must  have  stimulated 
interest  in  the  reading  and  making  of  verse.  He  gauged  the  taste  of  his 
audience  well  and  his  magazine  succeeded.  Its  life  was  short  only  because 
the  "Gentlemen"  who  were  responsible  for  it  were  too  busy  to  keep  it 
going. 

Some  of  the  magazines  published  romantic  and  sentimental  fiction  and 
delighted  their  readers  with  sensational  accounts  of  the  vagaries  of  the 
lovelorn  which  pretended  to  be  truthful  biography  or  history.  Scientific 
articles  were  common,  politics  always  had  a  place,  and  religious  topics 
were  frequently  discussed.  A  few  magazines  devoted  themselves  to  single 
interests  or  groups.  The  American  Musical  Magazine  (New  Haven, 
1786-87),  for  example,  appeared  as  soon  as  there  seemed  to  be  enough 
music-lovers  to  make  it  possible  to  risk  printing  a  monthly  collection  of 
"Pieces  . .  .  from  British  Authors  and  American  Composers  .  .  .  approved 

33  Richardson,  Early  American  Magazines,  pp.  99,  365,  108-109. 

34  Richardson,  Early  American  Magazines,  p.  120. 

35  Quoted  in  Albert  H.  Smyth,  The  Philadelphia  Magazines  (1892),  p.  38. 


ioo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

by  the  Musical  Society  of  Yale  College"  The  fair  sex  was  especialhj 
catered  to  by  some  editors.  The  Boston  Magazine  in  1785  begged  for  "thi1 
Favours  of  those  Ladies  whose  brilliant  Geniuses  and  literary  Producl 
tions  are  ...  an  ornament  to  the  Republic  of  Letters,"  and  declared  thai 
writing  done  by  women  would  have  "sprightliness  and  vivacity."  TM 
Royal  American  Magazine  (Boston,  1774-75)  edited  by  Isaiah  Thoma: ; 
(1749-183 1 )  appealed  to  lovers  of  engravings  by  printing  work  by  Paul 
Revere  and  Joseph  Callender,  who  did  portraits,  drawings  for  scientific; 
articles,  anti-British  and  anti-French  cartoons,  and  illustrations  for  stories 
One  magazine  was  printed  for  the  Pennsylvanian  Germans  in  their  native 
language,  a  French  one  was  started  in  Boston  in  1789,  and  a  children'*! 
periodical  began  in  Hartford  in  the  same  year.  Eighteenth-century  Ameri- 
can publishers  and  editors  experimented  constantly  to  find  ways  of  pleas- 
ing, and  their  work  is  an  important  index  of  the  aesthetic  and  intellectual 
tastes  of  the  colonial  reading  public.36 

By  1787,  the  way  had  been  well  charted  and  Noah  Webster  (1758-1843) 
was  able  to  start  a  magazine  which  was  distinctively  American.  He  was; 
a  Yale  graduate  with  legal  training,  a  strong  Federalist,  and  a  patriotic! 
citizen  of  the  new  nation.  His  American  Magazine  (1787-88)  asked! 
especially  for  "original  Essays .  .  .  particularly  such  as  relate  to  this 
country,  and  contain  useful  and  curious  discoveries  in  the  history,  or; 
geography  of  America,  or  ingenious  remarks  upon  . . .  Government,  and 
the  . .  .  institutions  and  customs  of  the  people,  in  the  different  States."! 
Foreign  work  could  not  "be  wholly  calculated  for  this  country,"  and 
Webster  stressed  the  American  note  wherever  he  could.37  He  also  gave 
a  "Review  of  New  Publications,"  a  milestone  in  the  history  of  American! 
criticism. 

In  any  outline  of  the  eighteenth-century  intellectual  background  in  i 
America,  a  few  religious  and  scientific  books  deserve  mention.  The  theo- 
logical writings  of  Jonathan  Edwards  and  Franklin's  scientific  essays  were 
the  most  distinguished  works  of  their  kind,  but  other  colonists  wrote 
well  on  the  same  topics.  Among  them  Charles  Chauncy  in  theology, 
Samuel  Johnson  in  philosophy,  and  Cotton  Mather  in  both  science  and 
religion,  were  important  for  the  content  and  literary  quality  of  their  work. 

Cotton  Mather's  scientific  attainments  are  too  often  forgotten.  He  was 
"the  first  scholar  in  the  colonies  to  catch  the  spirit  of  Newton's  work  . .  I 
a  keen  observer  of  the  flora  and  fauna  of  New  England,  an  early  student  i 
of  the  hybridization  of  plants"  and  suggested  "the  introduction  of  vari-  I 
olous  inoculation  against  smallpox  as  early  as  1721." 38  Dr.  William  I 
Douglass,  the  physician,  saw  no  hope  in  inoculation,  many  of  the  less  well- 
informed  attacked  it,  and  a  bomb  was  thrown  into  Mather's  house  as  a 

36  See  Richardson,  Early  American  Magazines,  pp.  239,  215,  366,  373-374. 

37  Richardson,  Early  American  Magazines,  p.  296. 

38  Dirk  J.  Struick,  Yankee  Science  (1948),  p.  22. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  101 

token  of  their  dislike  for  his  advanced  medical  views.  Thirty  years  .later 
Dr.  Douglass  grudgingly  admitted  that  Mather,  Dr.  Zabdiel  Boylston,  and 
their  allies  had  been  right. 

Mather  wrote  a  great  deal  about  his  scientific  interests— communica- 
tions to  the  Royal  Society,  printed  tracts,  and  a  long  medical  treatise, 
The  Angel  of  Bethesda,  left  unpublished  at  his  death.  Many  of  his  writings 
on  other  subjects  allude  to  scientific  materials,  and  one  book,  The  Chris- 
tian Philosopher  (London,  1720),  is;!!'  "of  the  highest  importance  to  the 
student  of  American  intellectual  history"  and  "probably  . .  .  the  best  avail- 
able index  to  the  state  of  scientific  knowledge  in  New  England"  in  its 
time.40  Mather  believed  the  study  of  the  physical  world  was  a  ''wondrous 
Incentive  to  Religion"  41  and  summed  up  all  he  had  learned  about  a  wide 
range  of  scientific  subjects  in  order  to  demonstrate  the  wonderful  design 
of  God's  creation.  The  godly  were  pleased  by  the  religious  application; 
students  and  teachers  of  science  found  the  book  useful.  The  Christian 
Philosopher  offers,  moreover,  further  proof  that  its  author  was  not  only 
a  scholar  but  an  artist.  He  deliberately  cast  much  of  his  material  in  semi- 
poetic  form,  and  some  of  his  rhapsodic  passages  on  the  marvels  of  God's 
work  suggest  Walt  Whitman's  eloquent  rhythms. 

Emotional  fervor  applied  to  science  might  be  excused  by  rationalists 
because  of  the  subject,  but  any  excess  of  it  in  religion  terrified  cool-headed 
theologians  like  Charles  Chauncy  (1705-87).  He  was  the  child  of  his  age, 
and  although  as  a  Boston  minister  he  still  held  to  much  of  the  old  theology, 
he  gradually  moved  away  from  the  Calvinistic  conception  of  the  God- 
centered  universe.  He  eventually  came  to  measure  divine  benevolence 
by  man's  standards;  to  renounce  the  doctrine  of  predestination  because 
it  seemed  to  make  God  the  author  of  evil;  and  to  assert  that  its  real  source 
was  man's  failure  to  use  his  own  rational  faculties.  But  liberal  as  his  views 
were,  he  hated  the  "enthusiasts"  who  relied  on  personal  emotion  rather 
than  on  sensible  arguments  and  logical  proofs  drawn  from  Holy  Writ 
and  from  the  rational  study  of  the  nature  of  the  world  and  its  people. 

To  him  the  "Great  Awakening,"  the  religious  revival  which  swept  the 
colonies  in  the  mid-eighteenth  century,  was  dangerous  "enthusiasm."  No 
doubt  he  and  the  other  clerical  leaders,  Anglican  and  Puritan,  who  op- 
posed it,  did  so  partly  because  they  saw  that  it  threatened  their  own  posi- 
tion. If  emotion  was  the  test,  anyone  might  claim  sainthood,  and  what 
use  would  there  be  for  scholars,  learned  preachers,  and  the  discipline  of 
churches?  The  vehemence  of  the  debate  about  the  "Great  Awakening" 
came  as  much  from  its  economic  and  social  implications  as  from  its  theo- 
logical. 

39  Dated  on  the  title-page  1721,  but  actually  printed  in   1720. 

40  Theodore  Hornberger,  "Notes  on  the  Christian  Philosopher,"  in  Thomas  J. 
Holmes,  Cotton  Mather:  A  Bibliography   (1940),  Vol.  1,  p.  134. 

41  Christian  Philosopher,  p.  1. 


io2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

As  early  as  17 19  Theodore  Frelinghuysen  worked  as  a  revivalist;  irl 
1736  William  Tennent  set  up  a  "log  college"  in  which  revivalists  wen! 
trained  for  work  on  the  frontier;  Jonathan  Edwards  in  the  thirties  triec 
to  reawaken  his  congregation  in  Northampton,  Massachusetts,  to  an  in-; 
tense  feeling  of  their  need  for  God.  George  Whitefleld  came  from  Eng-j 
land  to  Philadelphia  in  1739,  and  made  a  tour  of  nearly  a  thousand  milea 
through  the  colonies.  Aided  by  Tennent  and  others  he  brought  the 
"Awakening"  to  new  heights  of  "enthusiastic"  ardor.  Everywhere  con- 
verts to  the  "New  Light"  gained  strength.  The  purely  religious  conse-> 
quences  are  hard  to  measure;  the  sociological  are  "more  palpable."  The 
movement  ''brought  more  people  into  the  Protestant  churches,  but  split 
them  up,  setting  congregations  against  their  ministers,  and  reviving  in- 
tolerance. . .  Once  ignorant  and  emotional  people  had  tasted  the  strong 
drink  of  revivalism  they  cared  no  more  for  traditional  worship."  42  This  is1 
what  Chauncy  foresaw  and  fought  against.  He  objected  to  putting 
people's  "Passions  into  a  Ferment"  instead  of  "filling  them  with  such  aj 
reasonable  Solicitude,  as  is  the  Effect  of  a  just  Exhibition  of  the  Truths 
of  GOD  to  their  Understandings"— a  concise  summary  of  the  central 
issue.43  His  own  "reasonable"  temper  expressed  itself  in  a  style  admirably} 
lucid,  but  rigorously  prosaic,  unimaginative,  and  tame  in  its  imagery.  It 
is  lighted  up  only  by  bits  of  neat  satire  and  a  few  passages  admirable  fori 
their  dry  humor. 

Samuel  Johnson  (1696- 177 2),  the  first  head  of  King's  College  in  New 
York,  wrote  more  lively  prose,  especially  in  his  autobiography,  which 
recounts  his  shift  from  the  Congregational  Calvinism,  in  which  he  was 
trained  at  Yale,  to  Anglicanism.  Like  Chauncy  he  moved  toward  belief 
in  a  benevolent  God  and  in  a  happiness  on  earth  measurable  by  rational 
tests.  Like  Chauncy,  he  attacked  the  hysterical  emotionalists  of  the  re 
vivals.  He  rejected  the  "godlessness"  of  the  extreme  rationalists,  withou 
making  concessions  to  the  "enthusiasts,"  and  the  moderation  of  his  at- 
titude and  the  lightness  of  his  literary  touch  make  his  work  appealing. 
His  Ethic  es  Element  a,  or  the  First  Principles  of  Moral  Philosophy  (Boston, 
1746),  Elementa  Philosophica  . . .  Things  relating  to  the  Mind  or  Under- 
standing; and . . .  Things  relating  to  the  Moral  Behaviour  (Philadelphia, 
1752)  and  his  unprinted  Raphael:  or  the  Genius  of  the  English  America: 
A  Rhapsody,  were  all  distinguished  books  for  their  time  and  place.  But 
when  Americans  proved  themselves  neither  "Christians  nor  Englishmen," 
and  "Free-thinkers,  liberals,  Whigs,  'new  lights'  and  independent  re- 
flectors' flourished"  here,  "Johnson  . . .  sought  refuge  in  the  urbane  cul- 
ture, orderly  government  and  worldly  wisdom  of  the  Anglican  Church 

42  Samuel  E.  Morison  and  H.  S.  Commager,  The  Growth  of  the  American  Republic 
(Oxford  University  Press,  1942),  Vol.  1,  p.  in. 

^■''Seasonable  Thoughts  on  the  State  of  Religion  in  New-England  (Boston,  1743), 
P-  93- 


! 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  103 

and  the  British  nation." 44  England  was  his  spiritual  home,  English 
thinkers  his  mentors,  and  although  his  writing  shows  the  nature  and  direc- 
tion of  some  important  currents  in  colonial  thinking,  his  style  is  that  of  a 
man  nurtured  on  English  classics  and  conversant  with  the  standard  Eng- 
lish literary  conventions. 

Finally  a  New  England  diarist  and  two  eighteenth-century  travellers 
deserve  immortality  for  the  skill  with  which  they  displayed  the  con- 
temporary scene.  Samuel  Sewall  (1652-1730),  a  Puritan  lavman,  found 
time  in  the  midst  of  his  business  and  legal  career  to  keep  a  diary  from 
1674  to  1729,  which  is  an  amazingly  detailed  and  rich  record  of  Boston 
life  in  its  period.  Like  Pepys,  he  had  a  journalist's  talent  for  pictorial 
detail  and  many  of  his  day-to-day  jottings,  although  apparently  not  de- 
signed for  publication,  show  real  literary  skill.  Sarah  Kemble  Knight 
(1666- 1 727),  a  Boston  teacher  and  shopkeeper,  came  also  from  a  Puritan 
environment.  Her  journal  of  an  arduous  trip  from  Boston  to  New  York 
in  1704  proves  her  to  have  been  an  observant  and  witty  woman,  with  a 
sharp  eye  for  human  oddities,  a  nice  sense  for  vivid  phrasing,  and  expert- 
tiess  in  reproducing  the  flavor  of  everyday  talk.  She  had  a  good  sense  of 
humor  and  wrote  rather  to  amuse  than  to  edify.  In  a  canoe  she  did  not 
dare  "so  much  as  to  lodg  fher]  tongue  a  hair's  breadth"  aside  from  the 
middle  of  her  mouth,  "nor  so  much  as  to  think  on  Lott's  wife,  for  a  wry 
thought  would  have  oversett"  her  craft.45  She  described  her  greeting  at 
a  house  where  she  was  to  spend  the  night: 

I  was  Interogated  by  . . .  the  Eldest  daughter  of  the  family,  with  these  . . . 
words,  (w2.)"Law  for\mee— what  in  the  world  brings  You  here  at  this  time 
a  night?— I  never  see  a  woman  on  the  Rode  so  Dreadfull  late,  in  all  the  days 
of  my  versall  life.  Who  ane  You?  Where  are  You  going?  Fine  scar'd  out  of 
my  witts"  . . .  when  in  comes  my  Guide— to  him  Madam  turn'd,  Roreing  out: 
"Lawfull  heart,  John,  is  it  You?— how  de  do!  Where  in  the  world  are  you 
going  with  this  woman?  Who  is  she?"  46 

She  ends  with  thanks  to  the  "Great  Benefactor  f or . . .  graciously  cary- 
ing  forth  and  returning  in  safety  his  unworthy  handmaid,"  and  no  doubt 
she  believed  in  the  glories  of  Paradise,  but  what  fascinated  her  most  were 
the  "Granduers"  of  earth.  In  that  she  was  typical  of  many  less  articulate 
New  Englanders,  still  Puritans  but  more  and  more  attracted  by  the 
worldly  glories  of  a  Boston  which  was  coming  to  seem  to  them  a  "Sump- 
teous  citty."  47 

Sumptuous  it  was  not,  but  by  1744  it  could  boast  "of  men  of  learning 
and  parts"  and  "agreeable  conversation,"  "assemblys  of  the  gayer  sort," 

44  Herbert  W.  Schneider,  The  Puritan  Mind  (1930),  p.  191. 

45  Journal,  ed.  G.  P.  Winship  (1935),  pp.  9-10.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

46 


Journal,  pp.  5-6. 
47  Journal,  pp.  72,  15, 


io4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

"consorts  of  musick  and  balls,"  "good  dancing,"  and  women  "free  and 
affable  as  well  as  pritty."  "I  saw  not  one  prude  while  I  was  here,"  Dr 
Alexander  Hamilton  added.48  Hamilton  (1712-56)  wras  an  expert  witness; 
a  Scottish  physician,  born  and  trained  abroad,  who  moved  to  Maryland 
married  well,  and  became  a  leading  figure  in  the  polite  circles  of  th« 
colony.  In  1744  he  made  a  journey  up  the  coast  to  York,  Maine.  Hisl 
Itinerarium  gives  an  account  of  his  travels,  which  is  both  highly  entertainj 
ing  and  extraordinarily  valuable  for  its  accurate  picture  of  colonial  con-j 
ditions. 

Hamilton  wrote  briskly  and  sometimes  wittily.  Although  he  was  I 
cosmopolite  and  scorned  those  who  cried  down  Europe,  he  knew  the 
colonies  well  enough  to  "look  beyond  the  spectacular  and  the  temporary 
and  seize  upon"  their  "fundamental  and  enduring  traits."  His  view  wa< 
limited  by  the  snobbishness  of  a  clubman  and  colonial  aristocrat,  but  he 
attacked  stupidity  and  vulgarity  in  his  own  class  as  well  as  in  the 
"rabble."  He  disliked  Dr.  William  Douglass,  who,  although  "a  man  of 
good  learning,"  seemed  to  him  sadly  mistaken  in  his  exclusive  reliance  on 
"empvricism  or  bare  experience"  in  medicine,  "mischievously  given  to; 
criticism,"  and  a  "cynical  mortall,  so  full  of  his  own  learning  that  any 
other  man's  is  not  current  with  him."  Hamilton  himself  tried  to  live  up| 
to  a  standard  of  unprejudiced  detachment  whether  he  observed  his  fellow; 
physicians,  architecture,  or  the  contrasted  manners  of  aristocrats  andi 
plebeians.  He  was  a  Marylander,  but  Boston  seemed  to  him  the  most  civi- 
lized of  colonial  cities;  he  had  convivial  tastes,  but  derided  the  members 
of  the  best  colonial  society  who  carried  conviviality  too  far.  He  often 
took  the  sting  out  of  his  disapproval  by  his  humor.  When  an  argument 
about  mere  words  provoked  a  group  of  debaters  to  unreasonable  heat, 
he  "retired  ...  to  laugh  a  little,  handkerchef  fashion,  pretending  to  be 
busied  in  blowing  my  nose."  49 

No  American  document  of  the  period  sheds  as  much  light  on  some 
aspects  of  the  cultural  background  as  the  Itinerarium.  It  displays  the  con- 
trasts between  the  well-to-do  and  the  less  prosperous,  between  city- 
dwellers  and  country-folk,  and  between  men  of  education  and  the  un- 
lettered. It  describes  the  towns  in  which  good  buildings  and  well-laid 
out  streets  were  replacing  the  huts  and  ragged  lanes  of  pioneer  days,  and 
reveals  the  topics  of  conversation  common  in  taverns  or  at  meetings  of 
the  socially  elect,  paralleling  those  discussed  in  the  almanacs,  newspapers, 
or  magazines.  The  kinship  which  prosperous  and  cultivated  men  felt  with 
their  peers  throughout  the  colonies  is  illustrated  by  the  ease  with  which 
Hamilton  found  congenial  companions  wherever  he  went.  America  by 
1744  had  reached  the  point  where  a  detached  and  cosmopolitan  observer 

48  Gentleman's  Progress:  The  Itinerarium  of  Dr.  Alexander  Hamilton,  1744,  ed. 
Carl  Bridenbaugh  (University  of  North  Carolina  Press,  Chapel  Hill,  1948),  p.  146. 

49  Gentleman's  Progress,  pp.  xi-xii,  116,  137,  16. 


EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY  COLONIAL  CULTURE  105 

;ould  treat  its  cultural  centers  and  their  society  without  condescension. 
Hamilton  had  no  thought  of  separation  from  Britain  and  no  prophetic 
•ision  of  the  political  future,  but  his  book  shows  many  of  the  forces 
,vhich  were  pulling  the  colonies  together  and  supplying  the  emotional 
md  intellectual  unity  needed  for  the  ultimate  achievement  of  inde- 
pendence. 


Chapter  7 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND 
BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 

Two  eighteenth-century  Americans,  Jonathan  Edwards  and  Benjamir; 
Franklin,  represent  sharply  contrasted  aspects  of  the  intellectual  complex 
of  their  time.  Edwards  (1703-58),  one  of  the  few  Americans  who  havt 
made  significant  contributions  to  philosophy  and  theology,  won  interna- 
tional fame  for  his  forceful  and  original  thought  in  both  fields.  Franklin 
on  the  other  hand,  concerned  himself  with  politics,  physical  science,  anc 
practical  ethics,  leaving  metaphysics  out  of  account.  Both  were  among 
the  most  distinguished  colonial  stylists,  although  they  wrote  very  dif- 
ferently, and  each  gave  more  memorable  literary  expression  to  his  way  oi 
thought  than  any  American  contemporary.  Their  intellectual  attitudes 
were  poles  apart,  but  each  was  immensely  important  in  its  relation  to  the 
development  of  basic  American  ideas. 

Jonathan  Edwards  was  born  in  East  Windsor,  Connecticut.  He  gradu 
ated  from  Yale  with  a  high  record  when  not  quite  seventeen,  studied 
theology,  preached  in  a  Presbyterian  pulpit  in  New  York,  and  in  1724 
came  back  to  Yale  as  a  tutor.  In  1727  he  went  to  Northampton,  Massa- 
chusetts, to  share  a  pastorate  with  his  grandfather,  Solomon  Stoddard.  In 
the  same  year  he  married  Sarah  Pierrepont  of  New  Haven,  who  seems 
to  have  been  temperamentally  a  mystic.  He  said  that  at  times  God  "comes 
to  her  and  fills  her  mind  with  exceeding  great  delight"  so  "that  she  hardly 
cares  for  anything  except  to  meditate  on  him."  * 

Stoddard  died  in  1729  and  Edwards  succeeded  to  his  pulpit  where  he 
preached  until  1750  when  he  was  dismissed  by  his  congregation  which 
disagreed  with  him  about  standards  for  admission  to  the  church.  He 
preached  a  noble  farewell  sermon  and  moved  to  Stockbridge,  then  a 
frontier  settlement,  to  serve  as  a  missionary  to  the  Indians  and  a  minister 

1  Life  of  Edwards  by  Sercno  A.  Dwight  in  his  edition  of  Works  of  President 
Edwards  (1830),  Vol.  1,  p.  114.  References  immediately  following  are  to  this  edition. 

106 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN        107 

for  the  few  whites  in  the  vicinity.  In  January,  1758,  he  succeeded  his 
son-in-law  as  president  of  the  College  of  New  Jersey.  In  March  he  died, 
leaving  a  body  of  published  writings  and  a  collection  of  manuscripts  which 
are  the  greatest  scholarly  achievement  of  colonial  America. 

At  fourteen  he  read  Locke  with  the  excitement  of  a  "greedy  miser" 
floating  over  "newly  discovered  treasure"  2  and  while  he  was  still  very 
young  he  studied  and  grasped  the  doctrines  of  Newtonian  physics.'  He 
was  convinced  that  "body"  must  be  conceived  of  as  something  existing 
in  space  which  offered  resistance  to  a  force  acting  upon  it,  and  argued 
that  the  force  must  be  divine.  Reality  therefore  depended  on  God,  and 
'that  which  truly  is  the  Substance  of  all  Bodies,  is  the  infinitely  exact, 
vid  precise,  and  perfectly  stable  Idea,  in  God's  mind,  together  with  his 
stable  Will,  that  the  same  shall  gradually  be  cotmminicated  to  us,  and  to 
other  minds,  according  to  . . .  fixed  and  established  Methods  and  Laws."  4 
Here,  built  on  Newtonian  and  Lockean  premises,  was  an  argument  for 
idealism  and  the  Calvinistic  concept  of  God's  absolute  supremacy. 

No  less  important  than  his  early  reading  for  the  later  development  of 
his  ideas  was  his  youthful  psychic  experience  of  "conversion."  In  his  boy- 
hood his  head  was  "full  of  objections  against  the  doctrine  of  God's 
sovereignty,  in  choosing  whom  he  would  to  eternal  life,  and  rejecting 
whom  he  pleased,"  but  suddenly  he  was  at  last  "convinced"  of  divine 
justice.  The  doctrine  which  had  been  "horrible"  to  him  came  gradually 
to  be  "exceeding  pleasant,  bright,  and  sweet."  He  did  not  "know .  .  .  how- 
to  express"  in  words  the  new  "sweet  burning"  of  his  heart  and  his  "ardor 
of  soul,"  nor  could  he  explain  "how,  or  by  what  means"  he  was  con- 
vinced of  the  beauty  of  holiness,  but  the  intensity  of  his  feeling  was  a 
source  of  one  of  the  most  important  currents  in  his  thought.5 

He  became  sure  that  the  regenerate  always  underwent  a  definite 
religious  experience  and  that  true  conversion  was  a  direct  gift  from  God. 
The  converted  man  was  granted  a  "supernatural"  and  "spiritual  sense," 
"a  new  simple  idea,"  6— new  in  that  it  was  unrelated  to  past  mental  activi- 
ties, and  simple  in  that  it  was  not  derived  from  a  synthesis  of  ordinary 
physical  sensations.  There  was  "a  difference  between  believing  that  a 
person  is  beautiful,  and  having  a  sense  of  his  beauty";  so  there  was 
between  believing  that  God  was  great  and  having  a  sense  of  his  greatness. 
God  acts  "upon  the  mind  of  a  natural  man,  but  he  acts  in  the  mind  of  a 
saint  as  an  indwelling  vital  principle."  7 

2  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  30. 

3  E.  C.  Smyth,  "Some  Early  Writings  of  Jonathan  Edwards,"  Am.  Antiq.  Soc.  Proc, 
New  Series,  Vol.  10  (1896). 

4  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  674. 

5  The  Works  of  President  Edwards  (1844),  Vol.  1,  pp.  18-19.  Except  as  otherwise 
noted  all  subsequent  quotations  from  Edwards  are  from  this  edition. 

G  Treatise  Concerning  Religions  Affections  (Boston,  1746),  in  Works,  Vol.  3,  p.  71. 
7  A  Divine  and  Supernatural  Light . . .  (Boston,  1734),  in  Works,  Vol.  4,  pp.  442,  440. 


108  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Believing  this  Edwards  naturally  concerned  himself  with  the  psychoj 
logical  bases  of  religion  and  defended  the  role  of  emotion  in  the  Christian 
life.  The  "essence  of  all  true  religion  lies  in  holy  love.1'  s  The  passions  and 
the  imagination  could  be  dangerous,  but  both  were  divinely  controlled! 

Edwards'  emphasis  on  the  emotions  led  to  his  desire  to  restrict  churclj 
membership.  The  early  Puritans  had  insisted  that  it  be  limited  to  thos< 
who  could  prove  that  they  had  experienced  the  working  of  God  in  thei 
hearts,  but  by  Edwards'  time  the  old  standards  had  been  relaxed.  Hi 
grandfather  Stoddard  admitted  all  his  parish  to  communion,  holding  tha 
the  sacrament  might  be  a  means  of  grace  for  the  unconverted.  Edwards! 
in  his  God  Glorified  in  the  Work  of  Redemption...  (Boston,  1731)1 
and  in  other  books,  maintained  that  the  redeemed  underwent  a  recogniza 
ble  sense  experience,  without  which  no  one  could  be  counted  among 
the  chosen.  Since  the  true  children  of  God  could  be  identified,  wh) 
should  others  be  granted  fellowship  in  the  church?  Edwards'  congrega- 
tion, comfortably  used  to  softer  standards,  disliked  his  views  and  theiij 
opposition  to  them  was  the  prime  cause  of  his  dismissal  from  thd 
Northampton  pulpit. 

His  psychological  beliefs  led  to  his  championship  of  the  revivalisi 
movement  which  began  in  Northampton  in  1734,  a  wave  of  religious 
excitement  stimulated  by  his  emphatic  preaching  of  God's  absolute  perfec-l 
tion  and  man's  helpless  vileness.  Conservatives  like  Chauncy  saw  in  the! 
furore  a  triumph  of  the  passions  over  reason,  but  Edwards  worked  hare 
to  confute  them.  His  Faithful  Narrative  Of  The  Surprising  Work  of 
God ...  (London,  1737)  maintained  that  the  Northampton  conversion* 
were  a  "peculiar  and  immediate"  manifestation  of  divine  powTer.9  Wher 
a  few  years  later  the  Great  Awakening  began  and  George  WhitefieldJ 
the  English  revivalist,  came  to  America  the  conservatives  were  provoked 
to  new  attacks,  and  Edwards  once  more  argued  against  them.  He  dealij 
writh  the  phenomena  of  the  Awakening  in  a  sermon,  The  Distinguishing 
Marks  of  a  Work  of  the  Spirit  of  God  (Boston,  1 741 ),  and  followed  this! 
by  Some  Thoughts  Concerning  the  Present  Revival  of  Religion  in  Neii\ 
England ...  (Boston,  1742),  and  A  Treatise  Concerning  Religious  Af-\ 
fections  (Boston,  1746).  In  all  three  works  he  tried  to  justify  his  faith  in| 
the  Awakening  by  an  empirical  psychological  analysis. 

For  the  purposes  of  literary  history  it  is  unnecessary  to  trace  all  thei 
intricacies  of  Edwards'  thought.  Working  with  the  rational  method  ofj 
a  Newtonian  scientist  and  a  Lockean,  and  often  also  with  the  aesthetici 
sensitivity  of  a  mystic,  he  built  an  elaborate  intellectual  structure,  com- 
plex and  even  cryptic  in  some  of  its  aspects  and  expressed  sometimes  in 
a  kind  of  cipher,1"  too  technical  for  most  laymen  to  follow  in  detail 

s  Religious'  Affections  in  Works,  Vol.  3,  p.  10. 

0  A  Faithful  Narrative  in  Works,  Vol.  3,  p.  272. 

10  Cf.  Perry  Miller,  Jonathan  Edwards  (1949),  pp.  50-51,  262. 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN        109 

.vithout  patient  study  and  the  guidance  of  professional  philosophers  and 
heologians.  Its  fundamental  elements  are,  however,  so  rich  in  implications 
md  insights  for  the  understanding  of  man  and  the  universe  that  they  are 
1  valuable  to  the  arti  t  as  to  the  scholar  and  as  challenging  now  as  they 
yere  in  colonial  America. 

Edwards'  metaphysical  and  psychological  analyses  in  large  part 
;upport  the  cardinal  tenets  of  Puritanism.  Excellence,  he  declared,  con- 
Bed  in  being;  God  was  infinite  being  and  therefore  supremely  excellent. 
I*o  make  man  anything  but  totally  dependent  was  to  lessen  divine 
najestv  and  to  strike  at  the  root  of  the  only  tenable  interpretation  of  the 
;osmos.  Fallen  man  was  dominated  by  self-love  and  as  "deformed  and 
oathsome  as  a  filthy  worm,  or ...  a  hateful  viper."  ' '  He  lacked  virtue, 
■rich  was  disinterested  benevolence.12  The  good  was  a  kind  of  beauty 
md  the  highest  beauty  was  God.  The  virtuous  loved  him  as  an  artist 
night  love  beauty  for  its  own  sake  without  a  trace  of  desire  to  profit 
;elfishly  by  it.  Only  by  the  illumination  of  God's  grace  working  within 
iim  could  man's  nature  be  changed,  his  eyes  opened  to  the  loveliness  of 
:he  divine  order,  and  his  passions  and  behavior  brought  into  consonance 
yith  the  creator's  will. 

Edwards  was  a  sociologist  of  sorts;  he  knew  men  and  their  ways  and 
yorked  hard  to  comprehend  their  emotions  and  motives.  His  examina- 
ion  of  society  convinced  him  of  its  hypocrisy.  Men  professed  belief  in 
:he  old  doctrines  but  acted  as  though  God  were  not  infinite  and  the  order 
le  established  were  not  perfect.  They  forgot  that  they  were  predestined 
)y  God  and  to  be  saved  only  by  his  fiat;  they  were  tempted  by  notions 
:hat  their  wills  were  free  and  that  their  choice  between  alternatives  might 
;ave  or  damn  them.  Such  heresies  Edwards  called  "Arminian"  and  those 
no  followed  them  were  champions  of  "corrupt  opinions,"  which  had 
'more  and  more  prevailed"  in  the  Church  of  England  since  the  time  of 
Charles  I  and  had  infected  eighteenth-century  New  England.13  Timothy 
Cutler,  the  Rector  of  Yale  while  Edwards  was  an  undergraduate,  and 
Samuel  Johnson,  the  philosopher,  were  among  those  who  deserted  Cal- 
vinism for  the  Anglican  brand  of  Arminianism,  and  Edwards  suspected 
chat  many  of  his  fellow  preachers  inclined  dangerously  in  the  same  direc- 
tion. 

He  wrote  his  Careful  and  Strict  Enquiry  into  the  Modern  prevailing 
Notions  of  That  Freedom  of  Will,  Which  is  Supposed  to  be  Essential  to 
Moral  Agency  ...  (Boston,  1754),  to  refute  the  Arminian  heresies  once 
and  for  all.  In  it  he  proved  himself  "the  first  great  philosophic  intelligence 

11  Sermon  on  "The  Justice  of  God  in  the  Damnation  of  Sinners"  in  Works,  Vol. 
fc  p.  236. 

12  The  Nature  of  True  Virtue,  written  between  1754  and  1758  and  printed  in 
Tivo  Dissertations  (Boston,  1765),  and  Works,  Vol.  2,  pp.  261-304. 

13  A  History  of  the  Work  of  Redemption  (Edinburgh,  1774),  in  Works,  Vol.  1, 
pp.  466-467. 


no  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERIC:AN  PEOPLE 

in  American  history,"  and  the  book  is  "the  most  powerful  piece  of  sheei 
forensic  argument  in  American  literature."14  DrawinJ  heavily  on  wtaj 
he  had  learned  from  Locke  and  Newton,  exercisii  ^S  his  own  talents  f  cj 
psychological  analysis,  defining  and  applying  philosophical  and  thecj 
logical  terms  with  critical  and  expository  skill,  and  revealing  constant! 
his  shrewd  perception  of  the  ills  of  society,  he  argued  that  the  human  wil 
is  the  passive  subject  of  divine  authority,  determined  by  a  force  i 
cannot  control.  Freedom  is  the  "power,  opportunity ,  or  advantage,  thai 
any  one  has  to  do  as  he  pleases,  or  conducting  in  any  respect,  according 
to  his  pleasure;  without  considering  how  his  pleasure  comes  to  be  as  i1 
is."  15  Since  man  only  knows  what  he  experiences,  he  may  feel  freel 
although  whatever  he  does  is  caused  by  a  power  beyond  his  reach! 
"Strictly  speaking  . . .  Edwards  did  not  deny  the  freedom  of  the  will- 
He  merely  defined  it  so  as  to  limit  it  to  the  power  of  acting  upon  impulse! 
in  the  generation  of  which  the  mind  was  wholly  passive."  1G  The  impulses! 
of  course,  were  ordained  by  God. 

Men  were  not,  however,  excused  from  moral  responsibility.  If  thev 
were  bad  it  was  no  defence  to  say  that  they  could  not  will  to  be  good 
The  moral  obliquity  remained.  Edwards  found  no  difficulties  in  thi: 
theory  because  he  had  convinced  himself  that  God's  decrees  could  noj 
be  measured  by  man's  finite  conception  of  justice  and  because  he  believec 
that  a  world  not  inextricably  bound  together  in  all  its  parts  representee; 
unbearable  chaos,  in  which  man  could  not  be  free  because  he  would  bej 
self-deceived  and  enslaved  to  casual  circumstance.  The  elect  were  giveri 
the  vision  to  see  that  the  divine  order  was  both  necessary  and  beautiful 
Their  "idea  or  sensation"  of  its  beauty  came  "by  immediate  sensation  ol 
the  gratefulness  of  the  idea  called  beautiful;  and  not  by  finding  out  by 
argumentation  . .  .  any  more  than  . . .  perceiving  the  harmony  of  a  tune, 
is  by  argumentation  on  connections  and  consequences."  17 

What  argumentation  could  do  to  wean  the  Arminians  from  their 
errors  the  Enquiry  did.  It  was  not  only  a  full  and  logical  statement  of  a 
central  doctrine  in  Edwards'  philosophy  but  a  powerful  argument  for 
Calvinistic  theology. 

In  spite  of  his  expert  craftsmanship  in  debate  Edwards  could  not  re- 
establish that  theology.  His  doctrines  could  not  at  the  time  prevail  against! 
those  of  the  Enlightenment,  which  seemed  more  relevant  to  the  everyday 
lives  of  men  and  women  in  a  Newtonian  universe  and  an  optimistic 

14  Francis  A.  Christie,  "Jonathan  Edwards"  in  DAB;  Miller,  Jonathan  Edwards, 
p.  251. 

15  Remarks  on  the  Essays  on  the  Principles  of  Morality  and  Religion ...  (Edin- 
burgh, 1758),  in  Works,  Vol.  2,  p.  183.  Cf.  A  Careful  and  Strict  Enquiry  into  the  ... 
Freedom  of  Will...  (Boston,  1754),  in  Works,  Vol.  2,  p.  17. 

10  Clarence  H.  Faust  and  Thomas  H.  Johnson,  Jonathan  Edwards:  Representative 
Selections  (1935),  p.  1. 

17  The  Nature  of  True  Virtue  (Boston,  1765),  in  Works,  Vol.  2,  p.  300. 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN         m 

America.  He  tried  "to  revive  faith  in  the  supernatural  in  the  interests  of 
piety,"  but  failed  because  too  many  men  fancied  that  their  wills  were 
free  and  that  they  could  by  their  own  efforts  understand  and  perfect  the 
world.  They  might  listen  respectfully  to  him  and  be  unable  to  break  his 
logical  chain,  but  they  ignored  the  application  of  his  teaching  to  their 
own  lives  and  to  "the  moral  issues  ...  becoming  increasingly  urgent... 
that  clustered  around  the  cry  of  'liberty'."  ls  The  odds  were  too  great 
for  him  to  conquer. 

But  Edwards  was  very  much  more  than  an  apologist  for  Calvinism. 
Indeed  it  has  been  suggested  that  one  reason  he  did  not  publish  The 
Nature  of  True  Virtue  was  that  its  doctrine  was  too  mystical  in  tendency 
to  be  orthodox.  The  same  may  apply  to  his  Concerning  the  End  for  which 
God  created  the  %vorld>ld  which  outlined  a  pantheistic  view  of  the  uni- 
verse as  "an  exfoliation  of  God,  an  emanation."  20  He,  the  supreme  and 
only  excellence,  inevitably  loves  himself,  and  the  world  was  created  to 
enhance  his  glory.  Strictly  considered  this  left  no  real  separate  existence 
for  man's  self  and  no  basis  for  a  theology  dealing  with  human  relations 
to  God.  Edwards'  restlessly  speculative  mind  could  not  be  boxed  in  by 
any  established  theology.  His  ideas  explored  uncharted  territory  and 
sought  answers  for  problems  on  which  men  still  seek  light  in  order  to 
achieve  inner  security  and  the  power  to  face  their  environment  unafraid. 
His  imaginative  and  intellectual  range  can  be  felt  in  the  Enquiry  in  spite 
of  the  thorniness  of  the  subject  and  the  intricacies  of  the  debate;  it  is 
strongly  marked  in  one  of  his  most  unjustly  neglected  books,  A  History 
of  the  Work  of  Redemption  (Edinburgh,  1774). 

This  was  planned  as  "a  body  of  divinity  in  an  entire  new  method,  being 
thrown  into  the  form  of  a  history."  21  Edwards'  "heart  was  so  much  set" 
on  the  task  that  he  hesitated  to  "accept  the  presidency  of  Princeton 
college,  lest  the  duties  of  that  office  should  put  it  out  of  his  power."  The 
book  as  we  have  it  gives  only  "the  outlines"  of  the  plan  "in  a  series  of 
sermons  preached ...  in  1739,  without  any  view  to  publication."22  Even 
so  it  is  impressive.  It  interprets  the  whole  course  of  human  events  as  the 
working  out  of  God's  perfect  design.  It  is  admirably  balanced  between 
the  abstract  and  the  concrete,  between  theory  and  application.  Full  of 
historical  erudition  and  shrewd  observation,  it  displays  a  brilliant  vision 
of  the  potential  spiritual  greatness  of  America.23  But  the  real  grandeur  of 
the  book  is  in  its  imaginative  sweep,  the  genius  with  which  Edwards 

18  Herbert  W.  Schneider,  History  of  American  Philosophy  (1946),  p.  26. 

19  First  printed  in  Two  Dissertations  (Boston,  1765),  and  separately  as  A  Disserta- 
tion on  God's  Last  End  in  the  Creation  of  the  World  (London,  1788). 

20  Francis  A.  Christie,  in  DAB. 

21  Life  of  Edwards  in  Works,  ed  Dwight,  Vol.  1,  p.  569. 

22  Preface  by  Jonathan  Edwards,  the  younger,  in  Works  (1844),  Vol.  1,  p.  296. 

23  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  469.  Cf.  Edwards'  remarks  on  the  same  theme  in  Vol.  3, 
p.  315. 


ii2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

brings  the  story  of  mankind  throughout  the  ages,  the  sufferings  and  joys 
of  humanity,  the  facts  of  good  and  evil,  sin  and  virtue,  salvation  and 
damnation,  into  a  unified  body  of  evidence  for  the  power  and  beauty  of  I 
God  and  Christ. 

The  first  effect  of  Edwards'  prose  is  often  one  of  level  precision  which 
approaches  dullness.  Even  in  the  passages  which  are  plainly  meant  toi 
work  on  the  emotions  there  is  apt  to  be  a  tone  of  restraint  which  may  at  | 
times  be  highly  moving  but  too  often  seems  thin  and  dry.  He  followed  j 
the  Puritan  literary  theory  in  avoiding  stylistic   artifices  which  might; 
distract  attention  from  the  truth,  shunning  imagery  which  might  rouse  | 
carnal  passions,  and  putting  logical  order  and  clarity  highest  in  the  scale  |] 
of  prose  values.  But  he  used  less  often  than  the  Puritans  the  concrete  and 
homely  metaphors  and  similes  and  the  colloquial  phrasing  which  gave 
realistic  vividness  to  much  of  their  writing.  He  had  learned  from  Locke  \ 
the  epistemological  significance  of  language  and  had  gone  on  to  ponder  j 
for  himself  the  relation  of  verbal  symbols  to  objects.  He  tried  to  find  ! 
words  which  would  carry  single  and  unambiguous  meanings  and  present  I 
ideas  naked  and  unconfused.  But  the  abstract  character  of  much  of  his  I 
thought  meant  that  such  words  sometimes  lay  lifeless  on  the  printed  j 
page  because  they  were  themselves  too  abstract.  They  were  too  often 
like  mathematical  symbols,  beautiful  to  the  expert  for  their  exactness  and  j 
the  harmony  of  their  relations  to  each  other,  but  to  others  emotionally 
unevocative.  The  reader  unused  to  reading  simple  words  in  Edwards' 
elaborately  wrought  frame  of  reference  is  apt  to  miss  both  the  objective  | 
denotations  of  his  diction  and  its  emotional  overtones  and  to  find  it  color- 
less and  flat. 

But  sometimes,  especially  in  his  sermons,  he  writes  with  such  starkly 
realistic  accuracy  that  his  pictures  seem  hardly  pictures  at  all  and  stun 
or  charm  with  the  force  of  the  thing  itself: 

Some  of  you  have  seen  buildings  on  fire;  imagine  . . .  what  a  poor  hand  you 
would  make  at  fighting  with  the  flames,  if  you  were  in  the  midst  of  so  great 
and  fierce  a  fire.  You  have  often  seen  a  spider,  or  some  other  noisome  insect, 
when  thrown  into  the  midst  of  a  fierce  fire,  and  have  observed  how  immediately 
it  yields  . . .  There  is  no  long  struggle,  no  fighting  against  the  fire,  no  strength 
exerted  to  oppose  the  heat,  or  to  fly  from  it;  but  it  immediately  stretches  forth 
itself  and  yields;  and  the  fire  takes  possession  of  it,  and  at  once  it  becomes 
full  of  fire,  and  is  burned  into  a  bright  coal.— Here  is  a  little  image  of  what 
you  will  be  the  subjects  of  in  hell ...  To  encourage  yourselves,  that  you  will 
set  yourselves  to  bear  hell  torments  as  well  as  you  can,  is  just  as  if  a  worm, 
that  is  about  to  be  thrown  into  a  glowing  furnace,  should  swell  and  fortify 
itself,  and  prepare  itself  to  fight  the  flames What  can  you  do  with  light- 
nings? What  doth  it  signify  to  fight  with  them?  What  an  absurd  figure  would 
a  poor  weak  man  make,  who,  in  a  thunder-storm,  should  expect  a  flash  of 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN        n3 


lightning  on  his  head  or  his  breast,  and  should  go  forth  sword  in  hand  to 
oppose  it;  when  a  stream  of  brimstone  would,  in  an  instant,  drink  up  all  his 
spirits 


and  his  life,  and  melt  his  sword! 


Such  prose,  supported  by  the  physical  presence  and  power  of  a 
practiced  preacher,  proved  almost  unbearably  moving  to  Edwards' 
audiences;  it  must  still  stir  anyone  who  can  respond  to  the  printed  word. 
Much  of  his  other  writing,  read  without  benefit  of  the  author's  voice, 
is  aestheticallv  agreeable  for  its  simplicity  and  clarity  and  its  neat  adapta- 
tion to  its  intellectual  task,  but  fails  to  carry  either  its  meaning,  in  the  full 
sense,  or  a  conviction  of  its  truth  because  it  is  as  chilly  as  steel  and  its 
beauty  only  that  of  a  narrow  blade.  For  all  his  psychological  skill 
Edwards  sometimes  forgot  that  even  in  metaphvsical  debate  and  scientific 
exposition,  connotation  may  be  as  important  as  denotation,  sound  an 
adjunct  to  sense,  and  emotional  suggestion  as  valuable  as  precise  definition. 
He  failed  to  concede  enough  to  the  frailties  of  lay  readers  and  ignored 
too  often  the  fact  that  colloquial  and  vague  words  may,  if  they  are  heavily 
enough  freighted  with  familiar  emotional  associations,  be  more  effective 
for  the  intelligible  communication  of  exact  ideas  than  the  severely  limited 
vocabulary  he  chose  for  the  most  part  to  use. 

His  imagery  is  usually  as  strictly  controlled  as  his  diction.  His  often 
quoted  statement  that  if  we  are  to  conceive  of  "nothing,"  "we  must  think 
of  the  same  that  the  sleeping  Rocks  Dream  of"  25  is  poetically  imaginative 
but  such  flights  are  rare.  He  is  content  for  the  most  part  with  more  prosaic 
images  or  with  those  derived  directly  or  with  slight  adaptations  from  the 
Bible,  a  book  "which  contains  . .  .  much  beyond  all  other  books  in  the 
world."  2G  It  had  for  Edwards  such  emotional  potency  that  he  made  too 
little  allowance  for  readers  who  can  no  longer  respond  as  he  did  to  every 
echo  of  it. 

One  of  his  favorite  stylistic  devices  is  the  repetition  of  key  words 
throughout  long  passages.  In  his  account  of  his  conversion  "sweet"  and 
"sweetness"  are  constantly  reiterated,  and  one  of  his  sermons  contains  a 
paragraph  which  begins: 

There  do  meet  in  Jesus  Christ  infinite  highness  and  infinite  condescension. 
Christ,  as  he  is  God,  is  infinitely  great  and  high  above  all.  He  is  higher  than 
the  kings  of  the  earth:  for  he  is  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  He  is  higher 
than  the  heavens,  and  higher  than  the  highest  angels  of  heaven.  So  great  is 
he,  that  all  men,  all  kings  and  princes,  are  as  worms  of  the  dust  before  him; 
all  nations  are  as  the  drop  of  the  bucket,  and  the  light  dust  of  the  balance; 
yea,  and  angels  themselves  are  as  nothing  before  him.  He  is  so  high,  that  he 

24  "The  Future  Punishment  of  the  Wicked  Unavoidable  and  Intolerable,"  a 
sermon  preached  in  1741,  in  Works,  Vol.  4,  pp.  263-264. 

25  "Of  Being"  in  Smyth,  "Some  Early  Writings,"  p.  243. 

26  History  of  the  Work  of  Redemption,  in  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  513. 


n4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

is  infinitely  above  any  need  of  us;  above  our  reach,  that  we  cannot  be  profitabkj 
to  him;  and  above  our  conceptions,  that  we  cannot  comprehend  him.27 

Consciously  or  not  Edwards  was  using  repetition  for  coherence  and| 
emphasis.  Moreover  words  always  carried  symbolic  overtones  for  himj 
and  once  he  found  one  which  perfectly  crystallized  an  idea  he  probably 
felt  that  it  was  a  sacrifice  of  precision  to  resort  to  any  synonym. 

A  recently  published  manuscript  sheds  much  light  on  this  side  of 
Edwards'  thinking.  Called  "The  Images  of  Divine  Things"  or  "The 
Shadows  of  Divine  Things,"  it  contains  a  series  of  notes  on  objects  and 
events  which  seemed  to  Edwards  to  prove  that  all  the  created  world  was 
a  systematic  typification  of  God.  Faced  writh  the  concepts  of  Newtonian I 
physics  and  impressed  by  Locke's  sensationalism,  he  saw  that  man  must 
become  increasingly  preoccupied  with  the  natural  order  and  with  con- 
crete physical  realities.  He  therefore  set  out  to  prove  that  divinity  was 
infused  into  all  nature  and  that  all  nature  was  a  convincing  revelation  of 
the  divine.  Cotton  Mather  had  ingeniously  "spiritualized"  his  observations 
of  natural  objects;  Edwards  was  not  content  with  using  them  as  sources 
for  metaphors  and  similes  with  which  to  adorn  style,  or  as  tropes  with 
which  to  illustrate  or  explain  theology.  He  saw  an  identity  of  God  and 
the  universe  and  believed  that  "the  things  of  this  world  are  ordered  [and] 
designed  to  shadow  forth  spiritual  things"  and  "were  ordered  for  types 
of  spiritual  things."  "The  works  of  God  are  but  a  kind  of  voice  or 
language  of  God  to  instruct  intelligent  beings  in  things  pertaining  to 
Himself."  28  Therefore,  since  every  object  was  the  symbol  of  a  particular 
divine  thing,  an  exact  word  for  each  was  necessary  if  writing  was  to 
convey  meaning.  The  word,  the  thing,  and  the  truth  symbolized  were 
indissolubly  linked;  to  typify  by  the  sun  or  stars  when  the  flower  or  the 
snake  was  the  exact  symbol,  was  to  falsify. 

Edwards'  list  of  "images  and  shadows"  shows  that  he  found  in  familiar 
natural  objects  the  richest  source  of  symbols.  One  of  his  loveliest  passages 
illustrates  this: 

There  is  really ...  an  analogy  or  consent  between  the  beauty  of  the  skies,  trees, 
fields,  flowers,  etc.,  and  spiritual  excellencies,  though  the  agreement . . .  require 
a  . . .  discerning,  feeling  mind  to  perceive  it . . .  There  seem  to  be  love  and 
complacency  in  flowers  and  bespangled  meadows;  this  makes  lovers  so  much 
delight  in  them.  So  there  is  a  rejoicing  in  the  green  trees  and  fields,  and 
majesty  in  thunder  beyond  all  other  noises  whatever . . .  The  beauties  of  nature 
are  really  emanations  or  shadows  of  the  excellencies  of  the  Son  of  God. 
So  that,  when  we  are  delighted  with  flowery  meadows,  and  gentle  breezes 

27  Sermon,  "The  Excellency  of  Christ,"  in  Discourses  on  Various  Important  Sub- 
jects, Nearly  concerning  the . .  .Soul's  Eternal  Salvation  (Boston,  1738);  Works,  Vol. 
4,  pp.  180-181. 

28  Jonathan  Edwards,  Images  or  Shadows  of  Divine  Things,  ed.  Perry  Miller 
(Yale  University  Press,  New  Haven,  1948),  no.  7,  p.  44;  no.  45,  p.  56;  no.  57,  p.  61. 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN        115 

of  wind,  we  may  consider  that  we  see  only  the  emanations  of  the  sweet 
benevolence  of  Jesus  Christ ...  So  the  green  trees,  and  fields,  and  singing  of 
birds  are  the  emanations  of  His  infinite  joy  and  benignity.  The  easiness  and 
naturalness  of  trees  and  vines  are  shadows  of  His  beauty  and  loveliness.  The 
crvstal  rivers  and  murmuring  streams  are  the  footsteps  of  His  favor,  grace, 
and  beauty. 

Sunlight,  "the  golden  edges  of  an  evening  cloud,"  the  rainbow,  are 
"adumbrations"  of  divine  "glory  and  goodness."  Comets,  "hovering 
I  thunder-clouds,"  "ragged  rocks,  and  the  brows  of  mountains"  are  symbols 
J  of  Christ's  "awful  majesty."  29 

Edwards'  aesthetic  perception  often  outran  his  stylistic  capacity  and  he 
I  could  not  find  adequate  words  for  his  sense  of  beauty  and  wonder.  On 
I  one  occasion  he  speaks  of  "a  sort  of  I  know  not  what,"  giving  up  the 
j  struggle  for  precise  definition;  he  ends  an  essay:  "I  am  far  from  Pretend- 
|  ing  to  explaining  the  Trinity  so  as  to  Render  it  no  Longer  a  mystery.  I 
i  think  it  to  be  the  highest  &  deepest  of  all  divine  mysteries  still."  30 

To  Edwards  mystery  was  at  least  as  meaningful  as  what  passed  for 

isober  sense.  His  mind  was  too  spacious,  his  nature  too  sensitive,  to  be 

;  limited  to  the  finite.  His  imagination  appears  less  in  what  his  prose  actually 

"says"  than  in  what  it  constantly  implies.  The  essentially  poetic  power  of 

his  best  passages,  even  when  it  is  half  veiled  by  the  stylistic  checks  he 

I  imposed  upon  himself,  gives  him  his  enduring  literary  importance.  And  no 

one  who  reads  him  carefully  can  be  quite  unimpressed  by  the  force  of  his 

!  plea  for  the  things  of  the  spirit.  He  recognized  timeless  values  and  endur- 

» ing  beauty,  not  often  visible  to  natural  scientists,  merchants,  or  practical 

j  politicians.  He  upheld  principles  "ineradicable  in  the  shifting  influences 

I  and  forms  of  society,  firm  in  the  flux  of  ages"  and  sought  the  "crucifixion 

of  the  flesh  before  the  mighty  image  of  God  within  the  soul." 

His  aesthetic  intensity  and  his  interest  in  the  inner  life  were  inevitably 

suggestive  to  later  artists.   To  understand  Emerson  or  Hawthorne   or 

I  Melville  it  is  necessary  to  understand  something  of  him.  His  system  was 

rooted  in  the  recognition  that  sin  and  suffering  are  inescapable  in  life,  but 

j  even  the  optimistic  could  rejoice  in  his  vision  of  divine  beauty  and  the 

pantheistic  implications  of  some  of  his  thought.  In  times  like  ours,  when 

evil  and  anguish  are  in  the  forefront  of  experience,  some  philosophers, 

scientists,   and  theologians  have  adopted  views   curiously  like  some  of 

his.  He  did  much  to  keep  alive  in  an  America  tempted  to  forget  the 

spiritual  in  favor  of  the  material  a  consciousness  of  aesthetic  truth  and  of 

the  reality  which  transcends  physical  fact.  Few  American  poets,  few 

29  Observations  concerning   the   Scripture   Oeconomy,  ed.   E.   C.   Smyth    (1880), 

^observations,  ed.  Smyth,  p.  93;  George  P.  Fisher,  An  Unpublished  Essay  of 

Edwards  on  the  Trinity...  (1903),  p.  117.  „ 

™  Journals  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  Edward  W.  Emerson  and  Waldo  \l. 
Forbes  (Boston,  1909-14),  Vol.  2,  p.  221. 


n6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

major  artists  of  any  sort,  have  worked  without  some  glimpses  of  the  ligh 
pre-eminently  vouchsafed  to  him. 

His  best  writing  reveals  the  brilliance  of  that  light: 

We  have  seen  how  the  world  has  been  often  overturned,  and  will  be  mor> 
remarkably  overturned  than  ever  it  has  been  yet;  we  have  seen  how  the  world 
comes  to  an  end,  how  it  was  first  destroyed  by  water,  and  how  at  last  it  shall 
be  utterly  destroyed  by  fire:  but  yet  God  remains  the  same  through  all  ages 
He  was  before  the  beginning  of  this  course  of  things,  and  he  will  be  afte: 
the  end  of  them  . . .  Thus  God  is  he  that  is,  and  that  was,  and  that  is  to  corned 


If  "we  have  seen"  it  is  because  Edwards'  vision  was  not  only  that  ol 
the  historian,  theologian,  and  metaphysician,  but  also  that  of  the  artist! 

*         #         # 

Benjamin  Franklin  (1706-90)  was  born  in  Boston,  the  son  of  a  Puritar 
soapmaker.  At  ten  he  began  to  work  in  his  father's  shop.  He  disliked  the 
trade  and  when  he  was  twelve  he  was  apprenticed  to  his  brother  James, 
a  printer,  and  later  published  with  him  The  New  England  Courant.  The 
brothers  got  on  badly  and  in  1723  Benjamin  struck  out  for  himself  and 
ran  away  to  become  a  journeyman  printer  in  Philadelphia  and  for  a  time 
in  London. 

Success  came  quickly.  By  1729  he  had  his  own  newspaper,  The  Penn- 
sylvania Gazette;  he  began  his  immensely  popular  Poor  Richard's 
Almanac  in  1732;  became  clerk  of  the  Pennsylvania  Assembly  in  1736 
and,  a  year  later,  postmaster  of  Philadelphia.  With  the  aid  of  "friends  he 
founded  a  subscription  library  and  a  pioneer  fire  company,  accomplished 
police  reforms,  improved  the  streets  and  their  lighting,  established  a 
hospital,  and  drew  up  proposals  for  the  school  which  became  eventually 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania.'3  When  he  died  in  1790  he  was  more 
widely  famous  than  any  American  had  ever  been.  He  had  established  the 
first  American  learned  society;  had  drawn  up  the  plan  of  colonial  union 
which  was  adopted  by  the  Albany  Congress  in  1754;'4  had  made  im- 
portant contributions  to  science;  and  had  invented  the  lightning  rod, 
bifocal  spectacles,  and  an  improved  method  of  heating.  He  had  been 
elected  to  the  Royal  Society  of  London  and  awarded  by  it  a  gold  medal. 
He  had  been  given  honorary  degrees  by  three  American  colleges,  had! 
been  Pennsylvania's  agent  in  England  before  the  Revolution,  a  member 
of  the  Continental  Congress,  and  United  States  Minister  to  France;  had 
signed   the   Declaration   of  Independence,   the   Treaty   of  Alliance,  the 


32  History,  in  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  509. 

33  Proposals  Relating  to  the  Education  of  Youth  in  Pensilva7iia  (Philadelphia, 
1749),  in  Writings  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  cd.  Albert  H.  Smyth  (1907),  Vol.  2,  pp. 
386-396;  and  Idea  of  the  English  School ..  .for  the  Consideration  of  the  Trustees  of 
the  Philadelphia  Academy  (Philadelphia,  1751),  in  Vol.  3,  pp.  21-29.  All  references 
to  Franklin's  writings,  except  as  noted,  are  to  the  Smyth  edition. 

34  Writings,  Vol.  3,  pp.  197-199. 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 


"7 


Treaty  of  Peace,  and  the  Constitution;  and  had  written  political  and 
economic  tracts,  a  variety  of  essays,  scientific  papers,  many  brilliant 
letters,  and  an  autobiography.  He  was  moreover  a  rich  man  and  a  con- 
tented one.  By  1771  he  was  able  to  say  that  he  would  "have  no  objection 
to  a  repetition  of  the  same  life  from  its  beginning.1'  ss  There  is  no  reason 
to  suppose  he  ever  changed  his  mind. 

He  was  conventionally  grateful  to  God  but  not  in  the  least  in  awe  of 
him.  The  world,  Franklin  thought,  was  ruled  by  divine  providence,  but 
divine  providence  was  highly  orderly  and  reasonable,  operating  by  New- 
tonian laws  and  in  accordance  with  human  ideas  of  justice.  He  created 
a  God  in  his  own  image,  a  rational  advocate  of  common-sense  morality, 
who  could  not  fail  to  appreciate  the  Philadelphia  sage's  useful  life  and 
the  soundness  of  his  belief  that  hard  work  and  thrift  were  the  corner- 
stones of  virtue.  God  was  to  be  loved  "for  his  Goodness"  and  adored 
"for  his  Wisdom,"  but  Franklin  defined  both  terms  by  his  own  standards. 
God  was,  like  Franklin,  eminently  friendly: 

I  firmly  believe  he  delights  to  see  me  Virtuous,  because  he  is  pleased  when 
he  sees  Me  Happy.  And  since  he  has  created  many  Things,  which  seem  purely 
design'd  for  the  Delight  of  Man,  I  believe  he  is  not  offended  when  he  sees  his 
Children  solace  themselves  in  any  manner  of  pleasant  exercises  and  Innocent 
Delights;  and  I  think  no  Pleasure  innocent,  that  is  to  Man  hurtful.36 

Given  such  comfortable  notions,  why  puzzle  about  metaphysical  in- 
quiry into  the  divine?  Or  about  revelation,  since  it  was  safe  to  assume 
"that,  though  certain  actions  might  not  be  bad  because  they  were  for- 
bidden by  it,  or  good  because  it  commanded  them,  yet  probably  these 
actions  might  be  forbidden  because  they  were  bad  for  us,  or  commanded 
because  they  were  beneficial  to  us,  in  their  own  natures,  all  the  circum- 
stances of  things  considered."  37  From  the  strictly  religious  point  of  view 
Franklin  was  indeed  "a  great  pagan,  who  lapsed  now  and  then  into  the 
pseudo-religious  platitudes  of  the  eighteenth  century  deists."  38 

He  broke  with  Puritan  theology,  but  was  heir  of  part  of  the  Puritan 
tradition.  Although  he  had  no  use  for  Edwardsian  flights  into  realms 
beyond  the  reach  of  commercial  bookkeeping  and  the  data  of  physical 
science,  he  approved  of  the  practical  morality  preached  in  New  England 
pulpits.  He  liked  Cotton  Mather's  Bonijacius:  An  Essay  upon  the  Good 
that  is  to  be  Devised  and  Designed  by  those  who  desire  to . . .  do  good 
while  they  live  (Boston,  17 10),  although  he  may  have  missed  its  full 
theological  implications,  and  declared  that  the  book  gave  him  a  "turn  of 
thinking"  that  had  influence  on  his  "conduct  through  life"  and  on  his 

35  Autobiography,  in  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  227. 

^Articles  of  Belief  and  Acts  of  Religion  (1728)  in  Writings,  Vol.  2,  p.  94. 

37  Autobiography  in  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  296. 

38  Paul  E.  More,  Benjamin  Franklin  (Boston,  1900),  p.  39. 


n8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

belief  that  there  was  "greater  value"  in  "the  character  of  a  doer  of  good\\ 
than7'  in  "any  other  kind  of  reputation."  30  Mather's  moral  precepts  pleased! 
him,  because  thev  taught  the  virtues  necessary  for  an  orderly  society.  He:  | 
was  in  his  turn  to  write  many  such  precepts  and  to  express  in  them  the! 
highest  standards  of  the  most  enlightened  and   public-spirited  men   of 
business  in  his  day.  He  did  not  limit  himself  to  business  maxims,  but  evenjl 
in  his   broadest  moral   counsels   he   rarely   went   beyond   the   doctrines  I 
sanctioned  by  the  countinghouse.  He  held  some  beliefs  that  suggest  that 
he  was  the  first  American  Babbitt,  but  he  had  nothing  of  Babbitt's  mean-! 
ness  and  he  was  a  creator,  not  a  copier.  He  first  popularized  in  this  countrvj 
many  of  the  dogmas  still  revered  in  commercial  circles  and  his  skill  in 
winning  general  acceptance  for  them  entitles  him  to  be  called  the  first 
great  American  advertising  man.  He  differed  from  some  of  his  successors,; 
however,   by  insisting  on  probity,  tolerance,  and  concern  for  socially} 
useful  ends  as  essentials  to  success. 

Truth  for  Jonathan  Edwards  rested  on  a  vision  of  the  divine;  fori 
Franklin  it  was  an  aid  to  comfortable  living.  Credit  was  necessary  f or  I 
trade  and  a  liar  was  unlikely  to  succeed.  Virtue  for  Edwards  was  disin-M 
terested  benevolence;  for  Franklin  anything  that  improved  the  material;: 
lot  of  man  was  good  even  if  it  was  financially  profitable.  In  an  article,: 
which  he  republished  from  the  London  Journal,  "Philosophical  Self-j 
denial"  was  defined  as  refraining  from  any  act  which  "would  cost . . .  more 
than  'twas  worth."  40  The  sentence  might  well  have  been  Franklin's  own.; 
Even  when  he  is  most  philosophic,  there  is  still  the  clink  of  cash. 

Franklin's  ideas  show  the  effect  of  the  gradual  secularization  of  colonial 
thought,  the  growth  of  a  moneyed  commercial  class  in  America,  and  the 
current  acceptance  of  deistic  doctrines  which  substituted  a  man-centered  f 
universe  for  one  centered  on  God.  Because  he  represented  so  well  one 
side  of  his  time  and  because  later  generations  have  produced  many  sym-l 
pathizers,  he  has  become  a  national  hero.  Franklin  is  a  common  place- 
name  throughout  the  United  States;  his  picture  has  adorned  the  one-cent 
postage  stamp;  banks,  business  houses,  and  philanthropic  institutions  have 
used  it;  and  he  has  come  to  be  revered  in  the  United  States  as  a  native 
prophet. 

Other    factors    contributed    to    his    heroic    fame.    His    more    abstruse 
scientific  investigations,   considerable  as  they  were,   have  probably  noti 
done  much  for  his  popular  reputation,  but  his  inventions  and  his  ingenuity 
in  getting  things  done  by  mechanical  means  have  endeared  him  to  genera- 

39  Writings,  Vol.  9,  p.  208.  Schneider,  History  of  American  Philosophy,  pp.  39-40, 
suggests  that  Franklin's  comments  on  Bonijacius  were  a  "joke,'1  but  there  seems  to 
be  no  ground  for  this.  The  tenor  of  the  book  is  perfectly  consonant  with  Franklin's 
interest  in  practical  morality.  Cf.  Benjamin  Franklin:  Representative  Selections,  ed. 
Frank  L.  Mott  and  Chester  E.  Jorgcnson   (1936),  pp.  exv-exvi. 

4  °  A  Dialogue  . . .  Concerning  Virtue  and  Pleasure,  in  Pennsylvania  Gazette,  June 
23,  1730,  and  Writings,  Vol.  2,  pp.  162-163,  l°ng  ascribed  to  Franklin. 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN         119 

tions  of  American  gadgeteers.  His  patriotism,  his  diplomatic  cleverness, 
and  the  adroitness  with  which  he  publicized  himself  and  the  things  he 
cared  for,  have  been  no  less  influential  on  his  reputation.  Most  important 
of  all,  he  has  won  the  affection  of  his  countrymen  by  his  hearty  love  of 
life  and  his  warm  and  tolerant  geniality.  He  was  virtuous  but  not  so  much 
so  as  to  be  tiresome.  He  had  nothing  of  the  aloofness  of  the  saint  or  the 
austerity  of  the  scholar.  He  had  a  rich  gift  of  humor  and  won  disciples 
by  it;  he  balanced  the  sobriety  of  some  of  his  essays  with  the  indelicacy 
or  even  bawdry  of  others,  like  his  burlesque  letter  "To  the  Royal 
Academy  of  Brussels"  or  his  "Advice  to  a  Young  Man  on  the  Choice  of  a 
Mistress."  41 

His  heroic  quality  appears  most  to  the  optimistic  and  in  times  when 
the  existence  of  evil  can  be  forgotten  at  least  by  the  fortunate.  He  is  a 
guide  for  those  who  can  be  content  with  success  in  material  terms;  a 
favorite  of  those  who  prefer  prose  to  poetry  and  good  sense  to  emotional 
stimulation.  He  liked  music,  but  only  the  simplest,  and  felt  that  in  Handel's 
oratorios  the  sense  of  the  words  was  unfortunately  blurred  by  the 
setting.42  As  a  good  mechanic  he  seems  to  have  been  as  much  concerned 
with  the  machinery  of  music  as  with  its  aesthetic  quality.  His  ideas  on 
education,  although  not  original,  were  less  narrow  than  those  commonly 
held  in  the  colonies  before  his  time.  He  advocated  a  curriculum  "for  the 
citizenry  rather  than  the  clergy,"  with  "instruction  in  English  as  well 
as  Latin  and  Greek,  in  mechanics,  physical  culture,  natural  history, 
gardening,  mathematics,  and  arithmetic  rather  than  in  sectarian 
theology."  43  He  was  neither  very  imaginative  nor  speculative,  and  only 
in  his  scientific  investigations  did  he  go  beyond  a  concern  for  what  could 
serve  an  immediately  practical  end.  Even  there  he  sought  truth  principally 
because  he  wanted  ultimately  to  discover  ways  of  improving  the  material 
conditions  of  life.  When  an  inquirer,  sceptical  about  the  study  of  aero- 
nautics, asked  what  good  a  balloon  could  be,  Franklin  retorted:  "What 
good  is  a  new-born  baby?"  44  The  analogy  was  decisive  for  the  immediate 
argument;  it  rings  hollow  if  it  is  taken  as  a  serious  definition  of  the  real 
value  of  scientific  study. 

For  those  to  whom  it  does  ring  hollow  and  for  those  who  feel  in  "the 
many-sided  Franklin"45  many-sidedness  but  not  completeness,  because 
of  his  neglect  of  the  spiritual,  Edwards  is  more  satisfying.  Emerson  saw 
Franklin  as  the  American  grown  "frugal,  inoffensive,"  and  "thrifty,"  with 
nothing  "heroic"  left.46  But  in  a  very  real  sense  Franklin  was  heroic,  and 

41  Satires  &  Bagatelles,  ed.  Paul  McPharlin   (1937)'  PP-  37~39»  32"34- 

42  James  Parton,  Life  and  Times  of  Benjamin  Franklin  (1864),  Vol.  1,  p.  397. 

43  Benjamin  franklin,  ed.  Mott  and  Jorgenson,  p.  xlii. 

44  Carl  Van  Doren,  Benjamin  Franklin  (1938),  p.  700. 

45  Paul  L.  Ford,  The  Many -Sided  Franklin  (1899). 

46  "Milton"  in  Complete  Works  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  E.  W.  Emerson 
(Boston,  1903-4),  Vol.  12,  p.  255. 


izo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  recognition  of  his  obvious  limitations  should  not  exclude  appreciation 
of  his  human  stature  nor  should  discontent  with  his  themes  prevent 
admiration  for  his  literary  skill. 

That  skill  came  primarily  from  his  understanding  and  love  of  his  fellow- 
men  and  his  delight  in  living.  "Poor  Richard"  is  not  only  a  mouthpiece 
for  Franklin's  wise  sayings;  he  is  a  character  in  his  own  right,  sketched 
with  the  deftness  of  a  man  who  was  interested  in  all  human  behavior.  The 
Autobiography  has  become  a  popular  American  classic,  widely  read  in 
many  countries,  not  because  it  is  a  model  of  structure  or  style  but  because 
it  is  the  simple  story  of  a  happy  and  successful  life,  made  moving  by  a  man 
who  knew  that  for  his  purposes  a  familiar  tone  was  best.  He  deftly  plays 
up  the  most  dramatic  and  picturesque  episodes,  like  the  unforgettable 
scene  of  the  runaway  lad  walking  up  Market  Street  on  his  first  morning 
in  Philadelphia,  with  "three  great  pufTy  Rolls,"  one  "under  each  Arm,  and 
eating  the  other,"  4T  a  penniless  boy  beginning  his  journey  to  fame  and 
fortune.  Every  page  aids  in  the  dramatization  of  Franklin's  image  of  him- 
self, which  was  the  image  not  only  of  an  individual  but  of  a  type.  He 
wanted  to  make  himself  known  and  admired  less  for  the  sake  of  vanity 
than  because  he  was  sure  he  exemplified  a  useful  way  of  life.  The  tale  of 
his  career  followed  the  age-old  rags-to-riches  formula  and  was  a  perfect 
parable  to  prove  that  goodness  paid.  Franklin  of  course  glosses  over  some 
of  his  faults,  but  he  is  frank  enough  about  others  to  win  his  readers'  belief 
in  all  he  says.  The  ease  of  his  style  was  not  artless;  he  wrote  with  the  skill 
of  an  editor  and  propagandist  who  had  mastered  his  craft. 

He  wrote  always  with  his  eye  on  his  audience.  He  once  remarked,  in 
a  discussion  of  taxation,  "In  matters  of  general  concern  to  the  people . . . 
it  is  of  use  to  consider,  as  well  what  they  will  be  apt  to  think  and  say, 
as  what  they  ought  to  think."  4S  There  is  an  analogy  between  this  and 
his  willingness  to  tickle  his  readers'  palates  by  any  convenient  means, 
without  slavish  deference  to  any  abstract  theory  of  style.  Commenting 
on  writing  he  remarked:  "One  does  not  dress  for  private  company  as 
for  a  publick  ball."  4U  When  occasion  demanded,  his  prose  wore  formal 
attire,  but  more  often  he  kept  it  in  homespun,  in  order  to  make  his  audi- 
ence feel  like  a  "private  company"  which  he  gladly  took  into  his 
confidence. 

On  his  voyage  to  France  in  1776  he  wore  a  fur  hat  in  order  to  protect 
an  irritated  scalp  from  the  air.  In  Paris  the  French  looked  upon  his  strange 
headgear  as  the  badge  of  the  wilderness  philosopher,  Rousseau's  natural 
man  in  the  flesh.  Franklin  saw  at  once  how  useful  such  romantic  admira- 
tion could  be  and  steadfastly  continued  to  parade  his  American  hat.50  In 

47  Autobiography  in    Writings,  Vol.    1,  p.   254. 

48  Quoted  in  Cad  Van  Doren,  Benjamin  Franklin  and  Jonathan  Edwards  (1920), 
p.  xx. 

49  Autobiography  in  Writings,  Vol.  i,  p.  237. 

50  Dixon  Wccter,  The  Hero  in  America  (1941),  p.  67. 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN        121 

the  same  way,  once  he  learned  that  earthy  diction  and  the  concise  rhythms 
of  everyday  American  talk  pleased  his  readers,  he  made  them  staple 
elements  in  his  prose. 

The  hoax  was  one  of  his  favorite  devices.  He  pointed  out  to  Britain 
the  error  of  her  ways  by  publishing  a  pretended  "Edict  by  the  King  of 
Prussia,"  51  which  outlined  that  monarch's  claim  to  sovereignty  over 
England.  The  argument  paralleled  that  urged  in  London  to  support 
British  domination  of  the  colonies.  Franklin's  "Rules  by  Which  a  Great 
Empire  May  be  Reduced  to  a  Small  One"  were  exactly  those  which 
England  seemed  to  be  following  in  dealing  with  America.  He  was  per- 
fectly at  home  in  such  writings  and  in  the  satiric  and  humorous  trifles  he 
wrote  to  amuse  himself  and  his  friends,  especially  the  "good  lady 
ephemerae"  to  whom  he  playfully  made  love  in  France.52 

One  of  the  best  of  these  "bagatelles"  is  a  letter  written  in  French  to 
Mme  Helvetius.  In  it  he  tells  how  he  visited  the  Elysian  Fields  and  met 
there  the  lady's  erstwhile  husband,  who  announced  that  after  grieving 
for  several  years  after  his  separation  by  death  from  Mme  Helvetius  he 
had  married  again,  choosing  the  woman  who  seemed  to  him  most  like 
his  former  wife.  His  bride  then  entered,  bearing  nectar— and  proved  to 
be  none  other  than  Mrs.  Benjamin  Franklin,  translated  to  heaven.  She 
greeted  her  earthly  husband  coldly.  "I  was  a  good  wife  to  you  for  forty- 
nine  years  and  four  months— almost  half  a  century;  be  content  with  that. 
I  have  formed  here  a  new  connection  which  will  last  throughout  eternity." 
The  letter  has  the  neatness  of  a  short  story  and  Franklin  gives  it  a  final 
graceful  twist  by  ending  with  an  appeal  to  Mme  Helvetius.  "Angry  at 
this  rebuff  from  my  Eurydice,"  he  wrote,  "I  resolved  to  quit  these  un- 
grateful shades  and  to  come  back  to  this  good  world,  to  see  the  sun  and 
you.  Here  I  am!  Let  us  revenge  ourselves."  53 

Here,  and  in  hundreds  of  other  writings,  grave  and  gay,  Franklin 
proved  his  wit  and  stylistic  expertness.  Poetry  was  beyond  his  reach, 
but  wherever  prose  could  serve  he  wrote  always  with  competence  and 
very  often  with  brilliance. 

His  aphorisms,  original  and  borrowed,  display  his  sharp  ear  for  the  strik- 
ing phrase.  He  read  that  "necessity  is  a  mighty  weapon,"  but  wrote  "Ne- 
cessity never  made  a  good  bargain,"  changing  the  static  to  the  active.  In 
the  same  way,  "Be  careful  of  the  main  chance,  or  it  will  never  take  care  of 
you,"  is  less  concrete  and  less  effective  than  his  "Keep  thy  Shop  and  thy 
Shop  will  keep  thee."  54  His  "Drinker's  Dictionary,"  a  list  of  synonyms 
used  by  the  convivial  "to  cover  their  Folly,"  55  was  written  primarily  to 

51  Gentleman's  Magazine,  October,  1773;  Writings,  Vol.  6,  pp.  118-124. 

52  Writings,  Vol.  6,  pp.  127-137;  Vol.  7,  p.  209. 

53  Translated  from  the  French  text  in  Writings,  Vol.  7,  p.  206. 

54  J.  B.  McMaster,  Benjamin  Franklin  as  a  Man  of  Letters  (1887),  p.  112,  and  B. 
Franklin,  The  Way  to  Wealth,  in  Writings,  Vol.  3,  pp.  412-413. 

55  James  Parton,  Life  (1864),  Vol.  1,  pp.  222-225.  Cf.  Writings,  Vol.  2,  p.  43. 


122  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

amuse,  but  reveals  none  the  less  Franklin's  interest  in  exploring  the 
potentialities  of  the  living  language.  His  talent  for  using  homely  or  even 
comic  examples  is  shown  in  a  letter  to  the  Abbe  Morellet,  in  which  he 
made  a  playful  argument  for  the  wisdom  of  providence: 

Consider  the  position  [God]  has  given  the  elbow.  You  see  that  animals  who 
must  drink  the  water  that  flows  on  the  earth,  if  they  have  long  legs,  have 
also  long  necks,  in  order  that  they  can  get  their  drink  without  kneeling.  But 
man,  who  was  destined  to  drink  wine,  must  be  able  to  carry  the  glass  to  his 
mouth.  If  the  elbow  had  been  placed  nearer  the  hand  the  forearm  would  have 
been  too  short  to  bring  the  glass  to  the  mouth,  and  if  it  had  been  placed  nearer 
the  shoulder,  the  forearm  would  have  been  so  long  it  would  have  carried  the 
glass  beyond  the  head.  So  we  should  have  been  tantalized.  But  in  the  present 
position  of  the  elbow  we  can  drink  at  our  ease,  the  glass  coming  just  to  the 
mouth.  Let  us  adore,  then,  glass  in  hand,  God's  benevolent  wisdom.  Let  us 
adore  and  drink!  56 

The  same  basic  method  is  used  for  entirely  serious  purposes  in  his 
account  of  his  examination  before  a  committee  of  the  House  of  Commons. 
After  a  long  series  of  questions  and  answers  about  Great  Britain's  relation 
to  the  colonies,  he  ends  thus: 

What  used  to  be  the  pride  of  the  Americans? 

To  indulge  in  the  fashions  and  manufactures  of  Great  Britain. 

What  is  now  their  pride? 

To  wear  their  old  cloaths  over  again,  till  they  can  make  new  ones.57 

A  world  made  up  only  of  Franklins  would  not  satisfy  those  to  whom 
religion  and  worship  are  necessities  and  poetry  essential,  or  those  who 
cannot  be  content  with  a  morality  grounded  in  expedient  utility.  But  a 
world  devoid  of  Franklin's  wit,  wisdom,  and  humanity  would  be  im- 
possible to  live  in  at  all.  He  expressed  admirably  some  of  the  best  qualities 
of  American  thought  in  the  eighteenth  century  and  contributed  to  the 
advancement  of  science,  to  the  liberalizing  of  education,  and  to  the 
pleasure  of  generations  of  readers.  He  helped  to  set  up  socially  valuable 
institutions  which  have  endured,  to  improve  standards  of  living,  and  to 
make  possible  American  independence.  By  his  literary  skill  he  impressed 
his  doctrines  on  an  audience  far  more  numerous  than  any  other  American 
had  ever  reached,  taught  his  contemporaries  and  successors  much  about 
efficient  writing,  and  kept  alive,  in  his  familiar  imagery  and  his  insistence 
on  logical  clarity,  the  best  qualities  of  the  Puritan  theory  of  prose. 
Although  he  trained  himself  by  the  study  of  Addison,  he  coupled  with 
what  he  learned  from  him  lessons  from  everyday  American  speech  and 
the  best  of  the  New  England  preaching  tradition,  thereby  creating  a 
style  which  was  both  individual  and  truly  native. 

56  Writings,  Vol.  7,  p.  438. 

57  Writings,  Vol.  4,  p.  448. 


JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN         123 

Where  there  is  a  Franklin  there  should  always  be  an  Edwards.  It  is 
fortunate  for  American  culture  that  it  had  both.  It  is  even  more  fortunate 
that  many  of  our  writers  and  thinkers  since  the  eighteenth  century  have 
carried  on  fruitfully  the  separate  intellectual  traditions  which  the 
Northampton  preacher  and  philosopher  and  the  Philadelphia  statesman 
and  moralist  helped  to  establish. 


Chapter  8 


WOOLMAN,  CREVECOEUR,  AND  THE 
ROMANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA 

The  writings  of  John  Woolman  (1720-72)  are  the  best  literary  expres- 
sion of  colonial  Quakerism,  which,  like  Puritanism,  was  a  seedbed  of 
American  ideas.  His  Journal  and  his  essays  reveal  admirably  how  the 
Friends,  by  precept  and  practice,  kept  alive  in  this  country  types  of 
thought  which  had  a  fruitful  influence  on  its  later  spiritual  and  moral 
development. 

Reduced  to  its  simplest  terms  the  Quaker  doctrine  was  that  all  men 
and  women  had  an  "inner  light,"  the  still,  small  voice  of  God,  in  their 
hearts.  Godliness,  therefore,  did  not  depend  on  knowledge  of  books,  even 
the  Bible,  or  on  professional  priests  or  organized  churches.  Since  all 
shared  alike  in  a  divine  endowment,  worldly  distinctions  of  rank  were 
false.  Since  contemplation  of  the  inner  light  demanded  concentration, 
worldly  vanities  which  might  interrupt  it  were  bad.  Thence  came  the 
asceticism  of  the  stricter  Friends  and  their  insistence  on  tolerance  and 
democracy.  Their  ministry  was  not  a  league  of  teaching  officers  with 
worldly  prestige  but  a  body  of  devout  men  who  were  moved  by  God 
to  help  others  to  hear  his  voice  speaking  in  their  own  consciences.  There 
was  no  place  for  a  narrow  ritual  or  restrictive  creed.  Preaching  and 
Biblical  exposition  were  not  needed  for  worship;  God  was  well  served 
by  any  group  of  honest  Christians  who  met  together  and  listened  to 
each  other  "testify"  about  the  divine  revelation  immediately  vouchsafed 
to  them. 

By  Woolman's  time  Quakerism  had  lost  some  of  its  pristine  purity. 
The  Friends  in  becoming  a  powerful  and  prosperous  sect  had  made  some 
concessions  to  the  world.  Philadelphia  businessmen,  reared  in  the  old 
faith  and  still  professedly  loyal,  made  fortunes  and  lived  opulently; 
successful  Quakers  forgot  enough  of  their  humane  doctrine  to  keep  and 
trade  in  slaves.  But  the  cardinal  virtues  were  not  altogether  lost  sight  of, 

124 


THE  ROMANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA  125 

and  the  Quaker  community  as  a  whole  threw  its  weight  on  the  side  of 
piety,  benevolence,  charity,  and  respect  for  individual  dignity  and  free- 
dom. Few  Friends  achieved  Woolman's  sainthood,  but  many  admired  him, 
read  his  books,  and,  for  all  their  backslidings,  tried  hard  to  live  up  to  the 
standard  he  set. 

His  life  was  not  strikingly  eventful.  Born  in  New  Jersey,  the  son  of  a 
Quaker  farmer,  he  was  educated  at  a  village  school  and  apprenticed  to  a 
shopkeeper  near  Philadelphia.  He  picked  up  enough  knowledge  to  earn 
part  of  his  living  as  a  surveyor  and  conveyancer,  but  supported  himself 
principally  by  tailoring,  farming,  and,  for  a  while,  trading  in  trimmings 
and  buttons.  When  he  was  still  very  young  he  began  to  preach  and 
continued  to  do  so  throughout  his  life.  He  also  gave  some  time  to  school- 
teaching  and  wrote  a  little  primer  for  his  pupils.1  He  married  and  settled 
in  Pennsylvania  but  made  many  journeys  throughout  the  colonies  to  win 
converts  and  help  his  fellow  Quakers.  He  even  took  a  long  and  dangerous 
trip  among  the  Indians,  who,  like  the  Negroes,  seemed  to  him  to  be  often 
unfairly  treated  by  the  white  settlers. 

While  he  was  still  an  apprentice  he  had  to  draw  up  a  bill  of  sale  for  a 
Negro  woman,  owned  by  his  master,  and  was  so  disturbed  by  the  experi- 
ence that  he  ever  afterward  denounced  slavery.  During  an  early  visit  to 
Virginia  he  was  shocked  by  what  seemed  to  him  the  luxurious  life  of 
the  rich  planters  who  had  exploited  the  Negroes,  and  thenceforth  urged 
his  countrymen  to  give  up  anything  produced  by  slave  labor  or  by  the 
expense  of  human  energy  on  inessentials.  He  lived  up  to  his  principles 
by  refusing  to  wear  dyed  clothing,  by  making  most  of  his  journeys  on 
foot,  and  by  abandoning  his  little  retail  business,  even  though  his  ''natural 
inclination  was  towards  merchandize."  "Truth1',  he  thought  "required" 
him  "to  live  more  free  from  outward  cumbers." 

I  saw  [he  wrote]  that  a  humble  man,  with  the  Blessing  of  the  Lord,  might 
live  on  a  little,  and  that  where  the  heart  was  set  on  greatness,  success  in 
business  did  not  satisfie  the  craving;  but  that  comonly  with  an  increase  of 
wealth,  the  desire  for  wealth  increased.  There  was  a  care  on  my  mind  so  to 
pass  my  time,  as  to  things  outward,  that  nothing  might  hinder  me  from  the 
most  steady  attention  to  the  voice  of  the  True  Shepherd.2 

When  he  went  to  England  he  travelled  steerage,  in  order  not  to  support 
wasteful  luxury  by  paying  for  a  cabin  passage,  and  he  would  not  patronize 
British  coaches  because  the  horses  and  the  postboys  were  ill  treated. 

He  died  in  York  during  his  English  pilgrimage.  His  brethren  at  home 
and  abroad  recognized  that  they  had  lost  a  "faithful  labourer  who  loved 
not  the  world  but  was  made  truly  willing  to  lay  down  his  life  in  his 

1  A  First  Book  for  Children.  See  Journal  and  Essays  of  John  Woohnan,  ed.  Amelia 
M.  Gummere  (1922),  pp.  108-109.  All  references  to  Woolman's  writings  are  to  this 
edition. 

2  Journal  and  Essays,  pp.  183,  164. 


126  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

heavenly  master's  cause,  in  that  he  might  be  made  helpful  to  any  poor 
soul  or  souls."  3  He  had  been  a  true  Christian,  captured  by  a  vision  of 
holiness  which  he  believed  might  be  realized  on  earth  if  men  would  only 
love  one  another  and  devote  themselves  to  the  whole-hearted  practice  of 
the  doctrines  of  Christ. 

No  doubt  he  oversimplified  the  problem  and  was  too  optimistic  about 
other  men's  spiritual  potentialities.  Some  of  the  restraints  he  imposed  upon 
himself  seem  absurd  now  and  it  is  easy  to  regard  his  zeal  as  fanatically 
pedantic.  Even  so,  it  is  impossible  to  ignore  his  beneficent  influence,  nor 
can  he  be  condemned  as  an  idle  theorist.  There  was  nothing  flabby  about 
his  virtue,  and  he  never  flinched  from  the  sacrifices  it  demanded.  He 
knew  what  it  was  to  be  cold,  weary,  hungry,  and  sick,  and  that  good  must 
often  be  paid  for  by  pain.  He  was  as  unselfish  as  a  man  can  be  and  his 
saintliness  was,  as  Whittier  said,  "wholly  unconscious."  4  It  was  without 
vanity  and  without  self-seeking. 

On  his  deathbed  he  was  overwhelmed  by  "the  amazing  Horrors  of 
Darkness"  but  uppermost  was  the  thought  of  "the  depth  &  Extent  of  the 
Misery  of"  his  "fellow  Creatures,  separated  from  the  Divine  Harmony." 
That  "was  heavier  than"  he  "could  bear,  and"  he  "was  crushed  down 
under  it."  There  remained  for  him  and  all  other  sufferers  only  one  sure 
resource:  "O  Lord!  I  remembered  that  thou  are  Omnipotent;  that  I  had 
called  thee  Father,  and  I  felt  that  I  loved  thee;  and  I  was  made  quiet  in 
thy  Will."  5  But  faith  was  sometimes  difficult  to  achieve.  His  nurse  during 
his  last  illness,  not  knowing  how  best  to  help  him,  said  "  'What  shall  I  do 
now?'  He  answered  with  great  Composure,  'Rejoice  evermore,  and  in 
everything  give  thanks':  but  added  a  little  after,  'This  is  sometimes  hard 
to  come  at.'  "  G 

His  Journal  was  first  printed  in  Philadelphia  in  1774,  with  others  of  his 
writings,  and  had  five  editions  in  two  years.  Printed  separately  it  went 
through  eight  editions  before  1800  and  has  often  been  reissued  since. 
It  is  not  in  the  ordinary  sense  the  story  of  a  life,  but  the  record  of  the 
progress  of  a  soul.  The  emphasis  is  not  upon  what  Woolman  did  but  upon 
what  he  thought  and  believed.  Such  a  book  written  by  a  dull  man,  en- 
grossed in  the  trivial,  could  only  be  dull;  Woolman's  is  not,  because  it 
deals  with  a  great  theme  in  a  manner  worthy  of  it.  It  is  the  tale  of  a 
brave  struggle  for  moral  perfection  and  can  be  dull  only  to  those  who 
fail  to  see  its  universal  implications  or  are  unable  to  respond  to  the  sub- 
dued beauty  of  its  prose.  Its  power  can  be  felt  by  any  reader,  however 
indifferent  to  formal  religion,  who  is  concerned  with  the  fundamental 
moral  problems  which  exist  in  all  ages  and  all  societies. 

3  Journal  and  Essays,  p.  149. 

4  John  G.  Whittier,  Intro,  in  [Dora  Greenwell],  The  Patience  of  Hope  (Boston, 
1864),  p.  xxx. 

5  Journal  and  Essays,  p.  319. 

6  journal  and  Essays,  p.  322. 


THE  ROMANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA  127 

Woolman  also  wrote  essays  on  such  topics  as  "Pure  Wisdom  and 
Human  Policy,"  "Labour,"  "Schools,"  "The  True  Harmony  of  Man- 
kind," and  "A  Plea  for  the  Poor,"  which  were  frequently  printed  and 
widely  read.  His  most  complete  presentation  of  his  antislavery  views, 
Some  Considerations  on  the  Keeping  of  Negroes,  came  out  in  two  parts 
(Philadelphia,  1754,  I7^2)^  an^  was  many  times  reissued.  These  writings 
and  the  Journal  gave  his  ideas  currency  and  continuing  influence. 

He  was  not  the  first  American  writer  against  slavery.  William  Penn  had 
attacked  it  and  in  1700  Samuel  Sewall,  the  Puritan  diarist,  had  published 
The  Selling  of  Joseph,  a  vigorous  criticism  of  the  colonists'  treatment 
of  the  Negroes.  It  contained  cogent  sayings  like  "Liberty  is  in  real  value 
next  nnto  Life:  None  ought  to  part  with  it  themselves,  or  deprive  others 
of  it,  but  upon  most  mature  Consideration,"  "All  Men . . .  have  equal 
Right  unto  Liberty,"  "There  is  no  proportion  between  Twenty  Pieces 
of  Silver,  and  LIBERTY,"  and,  "Originally  and  naturally  there  is  no 
such  thing  as  slavery."  7  Later  other  colonists,  Quaker  and  non-Quaker, 
upheld  the  same  position,  Franklin  among  them.  Woolman  did  not  con- 
tribute new  arguments,  but  he  stated  trenchantly  and  simply,  for  an 
audience  which  trusted  him,  the  doctrine  that  slavery  contravened 
Christian  law. 

God's  Love  is  universal,  so  where  the  Mind  is  sufficiently  influenced  by  it, 
it  begets  a  Likeness  of  itself,  and  the  Heart  is  enlarged  towards  all  Men.  Again, 
to  conclude  a  People  forward,  perverse,  and  worse  by  Nature  than  others . . . 
will  excite  a  Behaviour  toward  them,  unbecoming  the  Excellence  of  true 
Religion.8 

Woolman  was  a  pacifist  and  even  objected  to  paying  taxes  which  might 
be  used  for  war.  Peace  was  beautiful  but  hard  to  win: 

It  requires  great  self-denial  and  Resignation  of  ourselves  to  God  to  attain  that 
state  wherein  we  can  freely  cease  from  fighting  when  wrongfully  Invaded,  if 
by  our  Fighting  there  were  a  probability  of  overcoming  the  invaders.  Who- 
ever rightly  attains  to  it,  does  in  some  degree  feel  that  Spirit  in  which  our 
Redeemer  gave  his  life  for  us.9 

Woolman's  economic  principles  were  as  close  to  Christian  precept  as 
his  pacifistic  views  and  as  far  from  the  commonly  accepted  notions  of 
the  practical  businessmen  of  his  day: 

The  Creator  of  the  earth  is  the  owner  of  it . . .  We,  as  his  creatures ...  are  so 
far  Entitled  to  a  convenient  Subsistence,  that  no  man  may  justly  deprive  us 
of  it . . .  Some  claim  a  much  greater  share  of  this  world  than  others:  and  while 
those  possessions  are  Faithfully  Improved  to  the  good  of  the  whole,  it  consists 
with  Equity.  But  he  who  with  a  view  to  self-exaltation,  causeth  some  with 

7  Samuel  Sewall,  The  Selling  of  Joseph:  A  Memorial  (Boston,  1700),  p.  1. 

8  Journal  and  Essays,  p.  338. 

9  Journal  and  Essays,  p.  207. 


128  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

their  domestick  Animals  to  labour  immoderately,  and,  with  the  monys  arising 
to  him  therefrom,  employs  others  in  the  Luxuries  of  Life,  Acts  contrary  to 
the  Gracious  designs  of  Him  who  is  the  true  owner  of  the  Earth . . .  Though 
the  poor  Occupy  our  Estates  by  a  bargain,  to  which  they  in  their  poor  Cir- 
cumstance agreed,  and  we  ask  even  less  than  a  punctual  fulfilling  of  their 
agreement;  yet  if  our  views  are  to  lay  up  riches,  or  to  live  in  conformity  to 
customs  which  have  not  their  Foundation  in  the  Truth,  and  our  demands  are 
such  as  requires  greater  Toyl,  or  application  to  business  in  them,  than  is 
Consistent  with  pure  Love,  we  invade  their  rights  as  Inhabitants  of  that  World, 
of  which  . . .  God  is  proprietor,  under  whom  we  are  Tennants.  Were  all  super- 
fluities, and  the  desire  of  outward  greatness  laid  aside,  and  the  right  use  of 
things  universally  attended  to,  Such  a  number  of  people  might  be  employed 
in  things  usefull,  as  that  moderate  labour,  with  the  Blessing  of  Heaven,  would 
answer  all  good  purposes  relating  to  people  and  their  Animals,  and  a  Sufficient 
number  have  time  to  attend  to  proper  Affairs  of  Civil  Society.10 

On  the  basis  of  his  own  experience  Woolman  concluded 

that  if  such  who  had  great  Estates  . . .  laid  much  Easier  Rents  and  Interests  on 
their  lands  &  moneys,  and  so  led  the  way  to  a  right  Use  of  things,  so  great 
a  number  of  people  might  be  employed  in  things  Usefull  that  Labour  both 
for  men  and  other  Creatures  would  Need  to  be  no  more  than  an  agreeable 
Employ.  And  divers  branches  of  business,  which  serve  chiefly  to  please  the 
Natural  Inclinations  of  our  minds,  and  which  at  present,  seems  necessary  to 
circulate  that  wealth  which  some  gather  might  in  this  way  of  pure  Wisdom 
be  discontinued.11 

This  doctrine  was  not  of  the  sort  to  appeal  to  shrewd  money-makers 
or  disciples  of  Franklin,  nor  was  this: 

Doth  pride  lead  to  Vanity?  Doth  Vanity  form  Imaginary  wants?  Do  these 
wants  prompt  men  to  Exert  their  power  in  requiring  that  of  others,  which 
themselves  would  rather  be  excused  from,  were  the  same  required  of  them? 
Do  those  proceedings  beget  hard  thoughts?  Do  hard  thoughts,  when  ripe, 
become  malice?  Does  malice  when  ripe  become  revengeful  and  in  the  end 
Inflict  Terrible  pains  on  their  fellow-creatures,  and  spread  desolations  in  the 
world? 

Doth  mankind,  walking  in  uprightness,  delight  in  each  others  happiness? 
And  do  these  creatures,  capable  of  this  Attainment,  by  giving  way  to  an  evil 
Spirit,  Employ  their  wit  and  Strength  to  Afflict  and  destroy  one  another? 
Remember  then,  O  my  soul!  the  Quietude  of  those  in  whom  Christ  Governs, 
and  in  all  thy  proceedings  feel  after  it.12 

As  Woolman  saw  it,  "A  Life  .  .  .  agreeable  with  Justice,  Equity,  and 
Mercy .  . .  and  truly  beneficial  to  Society  .  . .  affords  an  unparalleled  Com- 
fort in  this  Life,  and  the  End  of  it  is  blessed."  13 

10  Journal  and  Essays,  pp.  403-404. 

11  Journal  and  Essays,  pp.  244-245. 

12  Journal  and  Essays,  pp.  269-270. 

13  Journal  and  Essays,  p.  346. 


THE  ROMANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA  129 

These  passages  show  Woolman's  temperate  simplicity  in  diction  and 
his  restrained  rhetoric.  Like  most  Quaker  writing  his  was  severely  un- 
adorned. The  Friends  believed  that  pages  which  were  aesthetically  pleas- 
ing might  interfere  with  their  reader's  attention  to  the  "still,  small  voice." 
"The  natural  man  loveth  eloquence,"  and  brilliant  preachers  might  "kindle 
a  fire"  and  "compass  themselves  about  with  sparks,  and  walk  in  the  light, 
—not  of  Christ .  .  .  but  of  that  fire  which  they,"  being  worldly  men,  lighted 
in  worldly  tinder.  Their  listeners  would  be  deceived  like  the  followers  of 
sorcerers  and  false  prophets.  Therefore,  just  as  the  "Carved  work  and 
Imagery"  of  the  cabin  on  his  ship  repelled  Woolman  because  it  repre- 
sented "superfluity  of  workmanship,"  14  most  literary  graces  seemed  to 
him  wasteful  vanities. 

This  theory  set  up  severe  handicaps  for  the  artist  but  in  spite  of  them 
some  of  Woolman's  pages  are  among  the  most  moving  in  the  American 
prose  of  his  period.  The  colorlessness  of  his  vocabulary  and  the  quietness 
of  his  rhythms  convey  an  effect  of  transparent  sincerity,  which  is  the 
chief  source  of  his  persuasiveness.  It  is  hard  to  explain  why  his  best 
paragraphs  are  as  vivid  as  they  are  or  why  the  whole  flavor  of  his  work 
is  so  strikingly  individual.  Whittier,  hard-pressed  for  a  descriptive  phrase, 
said  that  Woolman's  style  had  "a  sweetness  as  of  violets."  15  This  is  neither 
analytical  nor  precise,  but  it  evokes  imaginatively  a  sense  of  the  special 
achievement  of  the  colonial  Quaker  artist,  whose  works  Charles  Lamb 
thought  everyone  should  "Get ...  by  heart."  16 


Another  American  farmer,  idealist,  and  man  of  letters,  was  Michel 
Guillaume  Jean  de  Crevecoeur  (1735-18 13).  He  was  born  of  French 
parents  in  Caen  in  Normandy.  In  1754  he  visited  in  England  and  learned 
the  language  and  in  the  same  year  or  the  next  set  out  for  Canada  as  a 
soldier  in  the  French  army.  There  he  spent  a  good  deal  of  his  time  as  a 
map  maker,  travelled  into  the  country  north  of  Montreal  and  Quebec, 
took  part  in  Montcalm's  attack  on  Fort  William  Henry,  and  won  com- 
mendation for  his  cartographical  skill  and  his  bravery.  When  Quebec 
fell  to  the  British  in  1759  he  was  wounded  and,  deprived  of  his  lieutenancy, 
made  his  way  to  New  York.  He  took  the  name  of  John  Hector  Saint 
John  and  in  1765  became  a  naturalized  colonist.  He  travelled  widely  as 
a  surveyor  and  trader  and  in  1767  spent  nearly  six  months  in  Ohio  and 
the  Great  Lakes  region.  In  1769  he  married  Mehitable  Tippet  and  settled 
down  as  a  farmer  in  Orange  County,  New  York. 

The  coming  of  the  Revolution  in  1775  distressed  him.  He  had  learned 
to  hate  war  and  his  background  in  a  French  landholding  family  predis- 

14  Journal  and  Essays,  pp.  315,  290. 

15  John  G.  Whittier,  Intro,  in  his  edition  of  Woolman's  Journal  (1873). 

16  Charles  Lamb,  'A  Quakers'  Meeting,"  in  Essays  of  Elia. 


1 3o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

posed  him  against  popular  uprisings.  He  refused  to  join  the  rebels,  but 
in  1779  when  he  was  forced  to  leave  his  farm  and  go  to  New  York  he  was 
imprisoned  for  two  months  by  the  royal  authorities.  His  friends  got  him 
released  and  in  1780  he  made  his  way  to  England  and  thence,  in  the  next 
year,  to  France.  In  1782  his  Letters  from  an  American  Farmer  appeared 
in  London.  In  Paris  he  was  a  celebrity.  His  wilderness  adventures  fasci- 
nated the  French,  and  the  Marquis  de  Turgot  took  him  to  see  Buffon,  the 
great  naturalist.  The  Countess  d'Houdetot,  Rousseau's  erstwhile  mistress 
and  a  friend  of  Crevecoeur's  family,  recommended  him  to  Franklin  and 
became  his  sponsor  in  Parisian  society.  He  translated  the  Letters  into 
French  and  was  elected  to  the  Academie  des  Sciences.  Under  the  influence 
of  his  French  friends  he  had  become  a  supporter  of  the  new  republic  of 
the  United  States  and  he  was  appointed  French  consul  to  New  York. 

He  returned  there  in  1783  to  find  that  during  the  war  his  farm  had 
been  burned,  his  wife  had  died,  and  two  of  his  children  had  disappeared. 
In  1784  he  was  overjoyed  to  find  them  safe  and  well  in  Boston,  being 
brought  up  as  his  own  by  a  kindly  townsman.  From  1785  to  1787 
Crevecoeur  visited  France  again,  and  in  1790  he  returned  finally  to 
Europe.  He  lived  there,  chiefly  in  London,  Munich,  and  Paris,  until  his 
death. 

He  kept  his  interest  in  the  United  States.  William  Short,  Jefferson's 
secretary,  wrote  to  Madison  in  1787  that  there  was  "no  body  more 
capable  of  explaining . .  .  the  present  ideas  of  France  with  respect  to 
America— because  there  is  no  body  who  understands  more  perfectly  the 
interests  of  the  two  countries  as  they  relate  to  each  other,  and  none  more 
zealous  to  promote  them  mutually."  17  He  was  elected  to  the  American 
Philosophical  Society  and  in  1787  the  state  assembly  of  Vermont  voted  to 
naturalize  him  and  his  children.  The  town  of  St.  Johnsbury  was  named 
for  him. 

His  affection  for  his  adopted  country  and  his  services  to  it  entitle  him 
to  be  called  "American,"  although  he  was  born  and  died  abroad.  He 
established  a  shipping  service  between  New  York  and  France,  wrote  help- 
fully on  agriculture,  introduced  some  useful  plants  to  the  United  States, 
and  published  valuable  material  in  his  Voyage  dans  la  Haute  Pennsylvania 
et  dans  VtLtat  de  New  York  (Paris,  1801).  When  he  died  he  left  three 
folio  volumes  of  manuscripts,  virtually  all  of  which  dealt  with  his  life  in  | 
the  colonies.  Most  of  them  he  had  published  in  his  Letters  and  in  a  French  | 
adaptation  with  additions,  the  Lettres  d'un  Cultivateur  Americain,  (Paris, 
1784,  and,  enlarged,  1787).  Still  others,  in  English,  were  issued  in  1925  as 
Sketches  of  Eighteenth  Century  America,1*  and  a  few  more  have  since 

17  Quoted  in  Julia  P.  Mitchell,  St.  Jean  de  Crevecoeur  (1916),  p.  263,  from  the 
Madison  Papers  in  the  Library  of  Congress. 

18  Sketches  (Yale  University  Press,  New  Haven,  1925),  were  edited  by  Henri 
L.  Bourdin,  Ralph  H.  Gabriel,  and  Stanley  T.  Williams.  Note  21  is  also  to  this  edition. 


THE  ROMANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA  131 

i  been  printed  elsewhere.  A  handful  of  other  pieces,  agricultural  tracts,  de- 
scriptive sketches,  and  letters,  makes  up  the  sum  of  his  printed  work. 

His  English  style  is  uneven.  At  its  worst  it  falls  into  rhetorical  excesses, 

apings  of  the  weak  conventionalities  of  the  day,  and  depressing  outbursts 

J  of  empty  sentimentality.  He  had  his  full  share  of  eighteenth-century  sensi- 

!  bility  and  his  romantic  leanings  made  him  now  and  then  see  through  tinted 

:  spectacles.  Thence  came  the  aroma  of  artificiality  in  some  passages  in 

I  which  the  second-hand  "elegance"  of  his  prose  matches  the  shallowness 

of  his  feeling.  The  last  chapter  of  the  Letters,  for  example,  describes  the 

dilemma  of  a  peace-loving  American  farmer  on  the  eve  of  the  Revolution, 

threatened  by  the  British,  the  colonial  rebels,  and  the  Indians,  and  no 

longer  able  to  hope  that  the  joys  of  his  rural  Elysium  could  last.  This 

leads  up  to  a  declaration  of  his  purpose  to  move  further  west  in  order  to 

recapture  Arcadian  bliss  among  the  savages  in  the  wilderness.  The  chapter 

was  printed  in  1782  when  Crevecoeur  himself  had  left  his  farm— but  not 

for  the  forest.  Instead  he  was  frequenting  salons  of  Paris  which  were 

neither  "natural"  nor  primitive.  His  panegyric  on  the  joys  of  life  in  the 

woods  no  doubt  thrilled  disciples  of  Rousseau  and  other  romantically 

disposed  readers  but  it  rings  hollow  to  sceptics  who,  in  the  light  of  the 

facts,  must  regard  it  as  a  literary  exercise  rather  than  the  statement  of  a 

compelling  faith. 

Fortunately  in  many  other  pages  Crevecoeur's  style  reflects  adequately, 
and  sometimes  brilliantly,  genuine  and  intense  feeling.  He  truly  loved 
peace;  he  loved  natural  beauty  and  was  highly  sensitive  to  it;  he  believed 
that  "good  substantial  independent  American  farmers"  were  genuinely 
blessed  and  able  to  regain  "the  ancient  dignity  of"  their  "species."  He 
was  sure  that  an  agrarian  society  was  the  best  basis  for  freedom  and  that 
the  American  was  "a  new  man,"  who,  "leaving  behind  him  all  his  ancient 
prejudices  and  manners"  and  "being  received  in  the  broad  lap  of  our  great 
Alma  Mater"  "acts  upon  new  principles"  and  must  "entertain  new  ideas, 
and  form  new  opinions."  19  He  was  the  "western  pilgrim"  to  whom  the 
new  land  said: 

"Welcome  to  my  shores,  distressed  European;  bless  the  hour  in  which  thou 
didst  see  my  verdant  fields,  my  fair  navigable  rivers,  and  my  green  mountains! 
—If  thou  wilt  work,  I  have  bread  for  thee;  if  thou  wilt  be  honest,  sober,  and 
industrious,  I  have  greater  rewards  to  confer  on  thee— ease  and  independence. 
I  will  give  thee  fields  to  feed  and  clothe  thee;  a  comfortable  fireside  to  sit 
by,  and  tell  thy  children  by  what  means  thou  hast  prospered;  and  a  decent  bed 
to  repose  on.  I  shall  endow  thee  beside  with  the  immunities  of  a  freeman.  If 
thou  wilt  carefully  educate  thy  children,  teach  them  gratitude  to  God,  and 
reverence  to  that  government,  that  philanthropic  government,  which  has 
collected  here  so  many  men  and  made  them  happy,  I  will  also  provide  for  thy 
progeny;  and  to  every  good  man  this  ought  to  be  the  most  holy,  the  most 

19  Letters  from  an  American  Farmer,  Everyman's  Library  (191 2),  pp.  38,  12,  43,  44. 


1 32  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

powerful,  the  most  earnest  wish  he  can  possibly  form,  as  well  as  the  most 
consolatory  prospect  when  he  dies.  Go  thou  and  work  and  till;  thou  shalt 
prosper,  provided  thou  be  just,  grateful,  and  industrious."  20 

Crevecoeur  did  not  blink  some  of  the  ugly  aspects  of  the  life  around 
him,  and  his  description  of  a  caged  Negro  being  tortured  to  death  by 
birds  and  insects  is  horrifyingly  realistic.  But  his  best  passages  usually 
dealt  with  the  simple  pleasures  which  the  countryside  offered  the  nature 
lover  or  with  the  tamer  aspects  of  the  farmer's  life.  In  treating  such 
themes  he  is  often  highly  skillful  in  his  use  of  evocative  detail.  Describing 
a  snowstorm  he  pictures  Bonny,  "the  old  faithful  mare . . .  highly  lifting 
her  legs . . .  shaking  now  and  then  her  ears  as  the  drifted  snow  penetrates 
into  them."  Inside  the  farmhouse  the  family  cluster  about  the  fire. 

The  children . . .  grow  sleepy  with  their  victuals  in  their  hands,  as  they  grow 
warm.  "Lord,  hear,  how  it  blows!"  says  one.  "My  God,  what  a  storm!"  says 

another.  "Mammy,  where  does  all  this  snow  come  from? "  asks  a  third 

The  negroes,  friends  to  the  fire,  smoke  and  crack  some  coarse  jokes;  and, 
well-fed  and  clad,  they  contentedly  make  their  brooms  and  ladles  without  any 
further  concerns  on  their  minds.21 

What  Tyler  called  Crevecoeur's  "haze  of  noble  idealizing  sentiment"  22 
was  fortunately  not  often  dense  enough  to  destroy  realism.  He  presented, 
Hazlitt  said,  "not  only  the  objects,  but  the  feelings,  of  a  new  country," 
and  the  critic  added,  "The  power  to  sympathize  with  nature,  without 
thinking  of  ourselves  or  others,  if  it  is  not  a  definition  of  genius,  comes 
very  near  to  it."  23 

Both  the  French  Lettres  and  the  English  Letters  were  popular.  They 
pleased  hard-headed  emigrants  who  found  new  opportunities  in  America, 
and  they  delighted  European  romantics  who  dreamed  about  noble  savages 
and  wilderness  Edens.  Lamb  praised  them  and  they  were  read  by  Camp- 
bell, Byron,  Southey,  Coleridge,  and  the  others  who  envisioned  America 
as  a  land  of  romance  and  a  possible  site  for  an  ideal  community.  Creve- 
coeur not  only  wrote  the  first  full-length  definition  of  "an  American" 
in  our  literature,  but  expressed  better  than  anyone  had  done  before  the 
fact  and  the  dream  which  inspired  many  of  the  founders  of  a  new  na- 
tion, many  of  the  pioneers  who  opened  a  new  continent,  and  many  of  the 
leaders  who  eventually  made  the  United  States  a  world  power. 

Like  Franklin,  Crevecoeur  preached  thrift  and  interested  himself  in 
science;  like  Woolman,  he  was  a  humanitarian  and  a  pacifist,  a  critic  of 
slavery  and  an  advocate  of  decent  relations  with  the  Indians.  He  lacked 

20  Letters  from  an  American  Farmer,  pp.  43,  67-68. 
2 •  Sketches,  pp.  44-46. 

22  Moses  C.  Tyler,  Literary  History  of  the  American  Revolution   (1897),  Vol.  2, 

P-  349- 

23  William  Hazlitt,  review  of  Channing's  Sermons  and  Tracts,  in  Complete  Works, 
ed.  P.  P.  Howe  (London,  1930-34),  Vol.  16,  p.  323. 


THE  ROMANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA  i33 

Franklin's  inventive  genius  and  versatility  as  well  as  his  political  wisdom 
and  his  wit;  he  had  none  of  Woolman's  saintliness  or  ardent  religious 
feeling.  His  imagination  never  soared  to  Edwards'  pitch,  nor  was  he  a 
penetrating  philosopher.  He  was  simply  an  amiable  man  with  a  neat 
talent  for  the  literary  revelation  of  his  best  traits,  for  the  lucid  and  often 
dramatic  presentation  of  his  likes  and  dislikes,  and  for  vigorous  plead i no- 
on behalf  of  fundamental  if  elementary  social  values.  Virtually  every- 
thing he  said  had  been  said  before  in  this  country  but  he  sometimes  clothed 
familiar  ideas  more  attractively  than  his  predecessors  had.  He  represents 
an  important  stage  in  the  development  of  American  writing  about  na- 
ture and  about  early  American  democratic  concepts  and  the  eighteenth- 
century  "American  dream." 

His  books  belong  with  a  group  of  colonial  works  which  have  special 

interest  because  they  affected  the  growth  of  certain  ideas  abroad.  The 

primitivism  of  the  romantics  and  their  celebration  of  the  "noble  savage," 

"the  natural  man,"  and  of  the  supposed  benevolence  of  the  wilderness, 

stemmed  originally  from  other  sources  than  descriptions  of  the  colonies 

and  their  Indians  and  Negroes.  Yet  there  is  much  evidence  that  tales 

j  from  America  about  the  blacks  and  the  savages,  the  freedom  and  op- 

:  portunities  of  the  settlers,  and  the  grandeur  of  the  New  World  land- 

I  scape   were   eagerly   read   in  Europe    and   stimulated   romantic   visions. 

|  The  humanitarianism  of  the  eighteenth  century  and  its  zeal  for  social  re- 

j  forms  no  doubt  developed  independently  of  America,  but  were  certainly 

I  furthered  by  reports  from  the  colonies.  Puritan  New  England  and  Quaker 

|  Pennsylvania  seemed,  in  some  accounts  which  were  read  abroad,  to  be 

j  ideal  societies.  The  humanity  and  tolerance  of  the  Friends  became  an  ex- 

!  ample  for  believers  in  a  peaceful  and  enlightened  social  order.  A  variety 

j  of   "the   American   dream"   became   "part   of  the    cultural   tradition   of 

Europe."  24 

tF  w  w 

Much  as  many  of  the  colonists  hated  the  Indians,  and  badly  as  they 
treated  them,  writers  like  Gookin,  Lawson,  Crevecoeur,  and  Woolman, 
strengthened  the  notion  of  the  noble  savage  and  encouraged  reformers 
to  plead  for  a  world  in  which  white,  black,  and  red  might  live  in  in- 
nocent harmony.  From  the  beginning  American  writers  had  asserted, 
sometimes  for  purely  commercial  reasons,  that  there  was  a  special  virtue 
in  closeness  to  nature.  Transplanted  Europeans,  even  in  unromantic 
moods,  had  learned  that  the  New  World  gave  more  chances  than  the 
Old  for  men  to  live  in  freedom  on  their  own  acres,  and  their  reports  im- 
pressed social  and  political  theorists.  The  French  philosophes  rejoiced  in 
what  they  heard  about  Pennsylvania,  and  Voltaire,  in  1734,  believed  that 
"Penn  had  brought  to  this  earth  the  Golden  Age."  25  No  wonder  Mme 

24  Gilbert  Chinard,   "American  Dream"  in  LHUS,  p.  215. 

25  Chinard,  "American  Dream,"  p.   195. 


i34  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

d'Houdetot  was  proud  of  Crevecoeur  as  a  "sauvage  americain"  whom 
she  could  display  in  Paris.26  The  French  Revolution  was  in  many  ways 
"the  daughter  of  the  American  Revolution";  -1  Franklin  seemed  to  a 
German  historian  the  prophet  of  a  new  Utopia,  and  others,  French  and 
English,  made  him  a  symbol  of  democratic  virtues.  Wherever  one  fol- 
lows the  romantic  and  liberal  strain  in  Europe  from  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury on,  one  finds  American  influences.  Some  were  promptly  re-exported 
in  European  books  which  affected  the  intellectual  and  literary  history  of 
the  United  States. 

Travels  through  the  Interior  Parts  of  North  America . . .  (London, 
1778)  by  Jonathan  Carver  (1710-80),  an  interesting  record  in  a  sound 
work-a-day  style,  full  of  data  on  the  Indians,  offers  an  example.  It  was 
read  by  Schiller,  who  used  a  passage  in  it  for  a  poem  which  specially 
pleased  Goethe.  Both  Goethe  and  Schiller  influenced  later  American 
writers,  thereby  in  a  sense  repaying  a  debt  to  the  New  World.  To  cite 
another  instance,  Chateaubriand's  Atala  (1802),  which  strengthened  an 
interest  in  American  exoticism  on  the  part  of  some  writers  who  in  turn 
influenced  our  literature,  depended  heavily  on  the  work  of  a  colonist, 
William  Bartram. 

His  father,  John  (1699- 17 77),  was  a  Pennsylvanian  botanist  whose  work 
interested  Linnaeus  and  other  European  scholars.  As  a  good  Quaker  he 
allowed  himself  few  literary  graces,  and  his  Observations  on  the  Inhab- 
itants, Climate,  Soil,  Rivers,  Productions,  Animals,  ...in...  Travels  from 
Pensilvania  to  ...Lake  Ontario  in  Canada  (London,  175 1)  and  his  Jour- 
nal of  a  trip  through  Florida  2S  were  written  in  a  scientist's  cool  prose. 
His  friend,  Lewis  Evans  (c.  1700-56),  a  Philadelphia  map  maker,  wrote 
essays  on  geography,  the  Indians,  politics,  and  other  matters  of  colonial 
concern.29  He  had  a  taste  for  natural  beauty  and  wrote  pages  which 
Dr.  Johnson  thought  had  some  "elegance."  30  His  work  and  that  of  John 
Bartram  excited  romantic  admirers  of  the  New  World  because  they  de- 
scribed the  country  and  its  Indians  and  helped  to  give  a  sense  of  the 
"sublimity  connected  with  vastness."  •'  They  also  pleased  readers  who 
supposed  that  the  colonies  offered  special  facilities  for  the  cultivation  of 
corporate  and  individual  virtues. 

William  Bartram   (1739-1823)   was  even  more  delightful  to  believers) 
in  the  American  Utopia  because  he  had  more  romantic  feeling  and  greater 

26  Howard  C.  Rice,  he  Cultivateur  Americain  (1933)*  p.  «>  quoted  from  Brissot  de 
Warville. 

"Chinard,  "American  Dream,"  p.    198.  .     .  .. 

28  The  Journal  was  printed  with  William  Stork's  A  Description  of  East-Florida 

^Geographical,  Historical,  Political,  Philosophical,  and  Mechanical  Essays  (Phila- 
delphia,  1755,  I756)-  ~  s^ 

so  Lit.  Mag.  or  Universal  Rev.,  no.  6  (London,  Sept.  15-Oct.  15,  1756),  p.  294. 
31  J.  F.  Cooper,  first  sentence  of  Intro,  to  The  Pathfinder. 


THE  ROA4ANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA  i35 

artistic  skill.  He  was  a  painter  as  well  as  a  writer  and  had  a  painter's  eye 
for  form  and  color.  He  wrote  fluently  and,  at  his  best,  with  simplicity 
and  freshness.  His  vocabulary  was  large,  and  he  used  it  with  scientific 
precision  but  also  with  care  for  aesthetic  values.  He  satisfied  admirers 
of  the  "noble  savage"  by  writing  of  the  Indians  in  the  tone  they  ap- 
proved, but  he  did  so  without  much  violence  to  observed  fact.  He  was 
a  pantheist  of  sorts  and  believed  that  nature  contained  a  spiritual  principle 
of  benefit  to  man.  His  Travels  through  North  and  South  Carolina, 
Georgia,  East  and  West  Florida,  not  printed  until  1791  but  based  on  his 
experiences  prior  to  1778,  is  important  in  literary  history  for  its  intrinsic 
merit  and  as  another  example  of  the  humanitarian  and  romantic  points  of 
view,  revealed  in  their  separate  ways  by  Crevecoeur  and  Woolman. 

The  popularity  of  Bartram's  book  in  Europe  is  an  index  both  of  his 
artistic  prowess  and  of  the  extent  to  which  his  ideas  agreed  with  some  of 
the  romantics'.  Wordsworth  used  it  in  "Ruth"  and  "She  was  a  Phantom 
of  Delight";  his  sister  was  also  impressed  by  it;  not  only  Chateaubriand 
but  Southey,  Campbell,  Mrs.  Hemans,  Shelley,  and  Tennyson,  all  drew 
from  it.  There  are  many  traces  of  its  deep  effect  upon  Coleridge.  One 
passage  which  struck  him  is  on  the  Seminoles: 

They  seem  to  be  free  from  want  or  desires.  No  cruel  enemy  to  dread;  nothing 

!  to  give  them  disquietude,  but  the  gradual  encroachments  of  the  white  people. 

Thus  contented  and  undisturbed,  they  appear  as  blithe  and  free  as  the  birds 

of  the  air,  and  like  them  as  volatile  and  active,  tuneful  and  vociferous.  The 

visage,    action,    and    deportment   of   the    Siminoles,    form    the    most    striking 

picture  of  happiness  in  this  life;  joy,  contentment,  love,  and  friendship,  without 

guile  or  affectation,  seem  inherent  in  them,  or  predominant  in  their   vital 

I  principle,  for  it  leaves  them  but  with  the  last  breath  of  life  . . .  not  even  the 

.  debility  and  decrepitude  of  extreme  old  age,  is  sufficient  to  erase  from  their 

visages  this  youthful,  joyous  simplicity;  but,  like  the  gray  eve  of  a  serene  and 

calm  day,  a  gladdening,  cheering  blush  remains  on  the  Western  horizon  after 

the  sun  is  set.32 

A  modern  critic  has  called  Bartram's  book  "one  of  the  most  delightful 
which"  Coleridge  "or  anybody  ever  read."  33  From  the  literary  point 
i  of  view  no  earlier  account  of  American  travel  excelled  it.  Its  material  is 
less  varied  than  Crevecoeur 's  and  perhaps  less  immediately  related  to 
persistent  and  fundamental  American  problems,  but  it  deserves  the  high 
place  given  it  by  a  long  line  of  devoted  readers.  To  all  of  them  it  has 
given  pleasure;  to  the  writers  among  them  it  has  contributed  both  ma- 
terial and  a  measure  of  inspiration. 

32  William  Bartram,  Travels,  ed.  Mark  Van  Doren  (1928),  pp.  182-183. 

33  John  L.  Lowes,  Road  to  Xanadu  (1927),  p.  8. 


Chapter  9 


THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE 
REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY 


Many  of  the  ideas  which  helped  to  make  the  Revolution  possible  can  be 
traced  far  back  into  the  colonial  period.  The  settlers'  love  for  the  Ameri- 
can landscape,  their  development  of  native  styles  in  architecture  and  the 
other  arts,  their  feeling  of  colonial  separateness  from  Europe,  their  re- 
ligious and  political  doctrines  fostered  by  local  conditions  and  used  in 
local  institutions,  the  Virginian's  or  the  New  Yorker's  pride  in  his  com- 
munity, and  the  colonists'  glorification  of  the  pioneer  and  the  farmer  as 
heroic  symbols  of  New  World  virtue,  were  all  factors  in  producing  the 
"American"  state  of  mind  which  was  necessary  for  colonial  union  against 
Britain.  Until  1775  few  colonists  thought  of  political  independence,  but 
when  the  battle  lines  were  drawn  the  American  cause  was  immensely 
strengthened  by  the  cultural  ties  which  had  been  woven  between  the 
settlements.  Literary  means  were  important  both  in  pulling  the  colonies  i 
together  and  in  circulating  doctrines  which  became  useful  to  the  rebel- 
lious patriots. 

Some  of  those  doctrines  were  expounded  by  the  colonial  preachers. 
John  Wise  (1652-1725),  for  example,  published  in  17 10  and  17 17  two 
books  in  defense  of  the  Puritan  church  polity,  which  were  reprinted  in 
1772  and  were  bought  and  circulated  by  some  of  the  most  active  cham- 
pions of  the  colonists'  cause  against  Britain.1  His  political  doctrines  were 
derived  from  others,  especially  the  German  Pufendorf,  but  their  char- 
acter and  his  effective  expression  of  them  made  them  useful  to  American 
revolutionaries. 

Wise,  minister  of  a  church  in  Ipswich,  Massachusetts,  was  "a  vigorous, 
hard-hitting,  racy  champion  of  popular  causes  and  the  agrarian  point  of 

1  See  list  of  subscribers  in  Wise's  The  Churches  Quarrel  Espoused  and  A  Vindica- 
tion of  the  Government  of  New-England  Churches  (Boston,  1772),  reprinted  in 
the  Boston,  i860,  edition,  pp.  237-245.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

136 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY      137 


A'ICW 


."  2  When,  in  1705,  a  group  of  ministers  tried  to  set  up  a  central 
council  with  authority  over  the  individual  churches,  he  scented  danger. 
His  The  Churches  Quarrel  Espoused  and  his  Vindication  of  the  Gov- 
ernment of  New-England  Churches  were  stinging  critiques  of  the  scheme 
land  pleas  for  the  old  New  England  order,  in  which  each  congregation 
{was  self-governing  and  responsible  to  no  other  group.  He  buttressed  his 
[argument  by  an  appeal  to  natural  law  and  a  statement  of  the  virtues  of 
jdemocratic  government.  It  was  this  which  gave  his  work  its  special  in- 
terest later. 

Conservative  in  his  desire  to  keep  the  old  polity,  Wise  was  liberal  in 
Isome  lines  of  his  thought.  The  earlier  Puritans  had  insisted  on  the  de- 
fpravity  of  man;  Wise  made  him  "a  free-born  subject  under  the  crown 
of  heaven,1'  endowed  with  "right  reason"  and  blessed  by  "an  original 
liberty  enstamped  upon  his  rational  nature."  The  "consideration  of  man's 
(moral  turpitude"  is  waived.  He  "must  be  conceived  to  be  perfectly  in 
jhis  own  power  and  disposal,  and  not  to  be  controlled  by  the  authority  of 
any  other."  There  "is  an  equality  amongst  men,"  which,  with  their  "per- 
gonal liberty  ...  is  to  be  cherished  and  preserved  to  the  highest  degree 
|. . .  agreeable  with  the  public  good."  3 

Wise  had  absorbed  some  of  the  fruitful  new  ideas  of  his  time  and  pretty 
jwell  abandoned  the  early  Puritans'  doubts  about  man's  ability  to  govern 
(himself.  They  had  believed  that  the  authority  of  the  saints  must  always 
dominate  the  errant  majority.  But  their  churches,  theoretically  made  up 
of  the  godly,  were  ruled  by  the  votes  of  the  members.  On  this  Wise  was 
able  to  build  part  of  his  democratic  argument  that  "the  end  of  all  good 
government  is  to  cultivate  humanity,  and  promote  the  happiness  of  all, 
land  the  good  of  every  man  in  all  his  rights,  his  life,  liberty,  estate,  honor, 
etc.,  without  injury  or  abuse  done  to  any."  4  This  is  closer  to  the  Decla- 
ration of  Independence  than  to  the  usual  teaching  of  the  pioneer  Puritans, 
who  would  have  preferred  "all  the  elect"  to  "all"  and  would  not  have 
worried  much  about  injuring  the  unregenerate. 

Wise's  two  tracts  are  minor  masterpieces  in  their  genre.  He  developed 
his  argument  logically,  seasoned  it  with  humor,  sarcasm,  and  dashes  of 
shrewd  wit,  and  relied  constantly  on  realistic  imagery.  He  knew  both 
the  traditional  Puritan  literary  theory  and  that  of  the  English  stylists 
of  his  generation.  From  the  latter  he  learned  to  write  with  a  grace  and 
a  free  use  of  literary  allusion,  especially  classic,  which  were  not  common 
in  the  work  of  his  Massachusetts  predecessors. 

He  illustrates  excellently  the  way  in  which  some  of  the  ideas  of  the 
early  New  England  clergy  contributed  to  the  Revolution.  The  Puritans' 
feeling  of  separateness  from  England,  their  confidence  that  theirs  was  a 

2  Perry  Miller  and  Thomas  H.  Johnson,  The  Puritans  (1938;,  p.  257. 

3  Vindication,  pp.  29,  33-34. 

4  Vindication,  pp.  54-55. 


138  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

holy  commonwealth,  their  democratic  church  polity,  and  their  beliei 
that  divine  law  transcended  the  decrees  of  bishops  and  kings,  helped  tc 
justify  opposition  to  Britain.  A  more  generous  faith  in  man's  potentia 
goodness  and  in  the  power  of  reason  and  a  waning  confidence  in  the 
exclusive  validity  of  Holy  Writ,  came  with  the  eighteenth  century  anc 
tended  to  transform  the  old  notions  in  ways  useful  to  the  rebellious.  The 
higher  law,  once  conceived  of  as  God's  arbitrary  command,  could  be 
thought  of  as  a  rational  principle,  based  on  experience  and  demonstrable 
human  aspirations  and  needs. 

Jonathan  Mayhew  (1720-66),  a  Boston  minister,  wrote  less  bril- 
liantly than  Wise  but  carried  his  liberalism  farther.  Theologically  he 
moved  toward  Unitarianism;  politically  he  was  democratic  and  against 
what  seemed  to  him  to  be  the  tyranny  of  the  British.  When  the  Stamp 
Act  was  passed  in  1765  he  became  one  of  its  most  articulate  opponents. 
Earlier  he  had  attacked  the  "divine  right  of  kings."  In  a  sermon  in  175c 
on  the  anniversary  of  Charles  Fs  execution,  a  day  on  which  Anglicans 
were  wont  to  praise  that  unfortunate  monarch  as  a  martyr  done  to  death 
by  his  sinful  subjects,  Mayhew  argued: 

. . .  nothing  can  well  be  imagined  more  directly  contrary  to  common  sense 
than  to  suppose  that  millions  of  people  should  be  subjected  to  the  arbitrary, 
precarious  pleasure  of  one  single  man,— who  has  naturally  no  superiority  ovei 
them  in  point  of  authority,— so  that  their  estates,  and  everything  that  is  valuable 
in  life,  and  even  their  lives  also,  shall  be  absolutely  at  his  disposal. . . .  The 
hereditary,  indefeasible,  divine  right  of  kings,  and  the  doctrine  of  non-resistance, 
which  is  built  upon  the  supposition  of  such  a  right,  are  altogether  as  fabulous 
and  chimerical  as  transubstantiation,  or  any  of  the  most  absurd  reveries  of 
ancient  or  modern  visionaries.  These  notions  are  fetched  neither  from  divine 
revelation  nor  human  reason;  and,  if  they  are  derived  from  neither  of  those 
sources,  it  is  not  much  matter  from  whence  they  come  or  whither  they  go.5 

Mayhew  upheld  the  right  of  a  people  to  rebel  against  any  government 
which  acted  contrary  to  the  law  of  nature  and  right  reason: 

A  people, . . .  oppressed  in  a  great  degree  by  their  sovereign, . . .  have,  like  the 
hesperian  fruit,  a  dragon  for  their  protector  and  guardian.  Nor  would  they 
have  any  reason  to  mourn  if  some  Hercules  should  appear  to  dispatch  him 
For  a  nation  thus  abused  to  arise  unanimously  and  resist  their  prince,  even 
to  the  dethroning  him,  is  not  criminal,  but  a  reasonable  way  of  vindicating 

their  liberties  and  just  rights And  it  would  be  highly  criminal  in  them 

not  to  make  use  of  this  means.  It  would  be  stupid  tameness  and  unaccountable 
folly  for  whole  nations  to  suffer  one  unreasonable,  ambitious,  and  cruel  man 
to  wanton  and  riot  in  their  misery.  And  in  such  a  case,  it  would,  of  the  two, 
be  more  rational  to  suppose  that  they  that  did  not  resist,  than  that  they  who 
did,  would  receive  to  themselves  damnation.6 

5  Jonathan  Mayhew,  A  Discourse  concerning  Unlimited  Submission  in  John  W 
Thornton,  Pulpit  of  the  American  Revolution   (i860),  pp.  83-84. 
fi  Discourse,  pp.  87-88. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY 


'39 


Mayhew  learned  "the  doctrines  of  civil  liberty"  from  Plato,  Demos- 
thenes, and  Cicero,  from  Algernon  Sidney,  a  seventeenth-century  English 
advocate  of  democratic  principles,  and  from  John  Milton  and  Benjamin 
Hoadly  as  well  as  from  Locke.  "I  approved  them— they  appeared  rational 
and  just,"  he  said.  He  had  also  found  proof  in  the  Scriptures  "that  wise, 
and  brave,  and  virtuous  men  were  always  the  friends  of  liberty; . .  . 
Where  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  is,  there  is  liberty."  r 

No  wonder  the  supporters  of  Britain  hated  the  non-Anglican  preachers. 
Peter  Oliver  said  that  James  Otis  relied,  in  his  attack  on  English  tyranny, 
on  his  "black  Regiment,  the  dissenting  Clergy."  8  A  British  traveller  raged 
against  them.  The  Newr  Englanders,  he  said,  "by  their  canting,  whining, 
insinuating  tricks  have  persuaded  the  rest  of  the  Colonies  that  the  Govern- 
ment is  going  to  make  absolute  slaves  of  them  ...  By  everything  that  I 
can  understand  .  . .  Independence  is  what  the  Massachusetts  people  aim 
at."  <J  The  influence  of  the  nonconformist  clergy  appears  in  the  colonists' 
opposition  to  the  appointment  of  an  English  bishop  in  America,  an  op- 
position easily  extended  into  politics.  If  an  episcopal  dictator  could  be 
sent  over,  why  could  not  other  officers,  without  reference  to  the  people's 
wish?  In  1769  a  cartoon  in  the  Political  Register,  called  "An  Attempt  to 
Land  a  Bishop  in  America,"  shows  a  ship  being  kept  away  from  a  wharf 
by  a  group  of  men  while  a  terrified  prelate  scrambles  up  the  shrouds 
crying,  "Lord,  now  lettest  thou  thy  Servant  depart  in  Peace."  10  Whizzing 
toward  his  head  is  a  copy  of  Calvin's  works,  thrown  by  one  of  the  men 
on  the  wharf.  His  companions  are  armed  with  other  books.  One  is 
"Sydney  on  Government,"  one  a  volume  of  Locke,  and  a  third  the 
Apology  of  Robert  Barclay,  the  standard  seventeenth-century  statement 
of  Quaker  doctrine.  The  bishop's  assailants  carry  banners  with  the  slo- 
gans "Liberty  &  Freedom  of  Conscience,"  "No  Lords  Spiritual  or  Tem- 
poral in  New  England,"  and  "Shall  they  be  obliged  to  maintain  Bishops 
that  cannot  maintain  themselves?"  Calvinists  and  Quakers  agreed  in  their 
determination  to  worship  unmolested  and  made  common  cause  with 
those  who  hated  official  rank  and  pomp  and  the  expense  of  supporting  it. 

In  the  judgment  of  a  modern  investigator,  "there  is  not  a  right  asserted 
in  the  Declaration  of  Independence  which  had  not  been  discussed  by  the 
New  England  clergy  before  1763."  Their  views  were  circulated  by  their 
correspondence  with  their  colleagues  in  other  colonies  and  by  their  labors 
in  their  own  pulpits  and  in  the  colleges.  Conservatives  called  Yale  "a 
seminary  of  sedition,  faction  and  republicanism"  and  the  declamations  and 
debates    of   Harvard   students    were   said   to    be    "full   of   the   spirit   of 

7  Quoted  in  Alden  Bradford,  Memoir  of  the  Life  and  Writings  of  Rev.  Jonathan 
Mayhew  (1838),  pp.  1 19-120. 

8  Peter  Oliver,  The  Origin  &  Progress  of  the  America?!  Rebellion  to  the  Year 
1776,  in  Gay  Transcripts  at  the  Mass.  Hist.  Soc,  p.  88. 

9  The  Journal  of  Nicholas  Creswell,  777^-/777,  ed.  Samuel  Thornely  (1924),  p.  44- 

10  The  Political  Register,  Vol.  5  (London,  1769),  plate  facing  p.  247. 


1 4o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

liberty."  ll  Even  though  the  ministers  usually  professed  loyalty  to  Britain,  I 
they  stressed  the  right  to  resist  injustice  and  arbitrary  rule,  and  the  neces- 
sity of  the  consent  of  the  governed  for  any  valid  law.  When  the  war! 
began  it  was  easy  to  remember  these  principles  and  to  forget  the  rest. 

The  colonial  Anglicans  were  in  a  difficult  position.  If  they  stood  for  in- 
dependence they  were  rebels  against  their  church;  if  they  did  not  they 
risked  unpopularity  and  even  persecution  and  exile.  Some  went  over  to 
the  revolutionists;  more,  probably,  joined  the  early  protests  against 
Britain  but  deserted  the  patriots  when  the  war  began. 

Jacob  Duche  (1738-98)  of  Philadelphia  is  a  case  in  point.  His  denuncia- 
tion of  the  English  before  the  Continental  Congress  on  July  20,  1775,  en- 
hanced the  reputation  he  had  won  by  his  popular  Observations  on  a 
Variety  of  Subjects,  Literary,  Moral,  and  Religions  (Philadelphia,  1774). 
This  book,  commonly  called  "Caspipina's  Letters,"  pleased  polite  society 
in  the  colonies  and  abroad  by  its  "refinement,  gentility,"  and  "devout- 
ness,"  12  but  its  facile  use  of  conventional  rhetoric  and  its  lapses  into 
pomposity  betray  emotional  superficiality.  As  soon  as  the  American  army 
met  serious  reverses  Duche  turned  his  coat  and  ultimately  had  to  take 
refuge  in  England. 

More  devoted  to  principle  was  Jonathan  Boucher  (1 738-1 804),  another 
Anglican  divine.  He  was  born  in  England  and  came  to  America  in  1759. 
He  preached  in  Virginia  and  Maryland  until  1775,  although  the  local 
patriots  did  their  best  to  prevent  him.  "For  more  than  six  months"  he 
delivered  his  sermons  "with  a  pair  of  loaded  pistols  lying'1  before  him, 
"having  given  notice  that"  he  thought  himself  "justified  before  God  and 
man  in  repelling  violence  by  violence."  13  But  the  odds  were  too  great 
and  forced  him  into  exile.  He  published  in  London  in  1797  A  View  of 
the  Causes  and  Consequences  of  the  American  Revolution,  which  con- 
tained sermons  he  had  preached  in  the  colonies.  He  jeered  at  the  "rude" 
and  "flimsy  oratory"  of  the  patriots,  and  his  own  prose  was  careful  and 
cool,  enlivened  only  by  occasional  sharp-edged  phrases  of  derision: 

To  be  a  whig,  consists  in  being  haughty  and  overbearing  in  domestic  life; 
in  being  insolent  to  inferiors,  and  tyrannical  to  slaves; ...  to  support  Revolution 
principles  is,  in  every  thing,  to  oppose  and  thwart  the  executive  power; ...  to 
be  a  low  church-man  is  to  entertain  and  avow  a  low  opinion  of  religion  in 
general,  and  especially  of  established  religion,  manifested  by  never  going  to 
church.14 

Professors  and  college  presidents  as  well  as  preachers  were  active  in 
the  revolutionary  controversy,  but  the  lawyers  were  most  important  of 

11  Alice  M.  Baldwin,  The  New  England  Clergy   (1928),  pp.   170,  in. 

12  j\  loses  C.  Tyler,  Literary  History  of  the  American  Revolution  (1897),  Vol.  2, 
p.  294. 

13  Reminiscences  of  an  American  Loyalist,  ed.  Jonathan  Bouchier  (1925),  p.  113. 

14  A  View  of  the  Causes,  pp.  320,  98-99. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY     141 

ill  in  the  actual  political  conduct  of  the  Revolution.  They  led  the  attack 
)n  the  illegality  of  England's  treatment  of  the  colonies  and  wrote  many 
)f  the  state  papers  and  official  pronouncements  which  were  valuable 
iterary  products  of  the  conflict.  Knowledge  of  the  law  and  its  language, 
icquaintance  with  the  writings  of  the  great  English  jurists,  and,  usually, 
iound  discipline  in  the  classics,  admirably  equipped  the  members  of  the 
3ar  for  debate. 

Daniel  Dulany  (1722-97),  in  1765  the  leading  lawyer  in  Maryland, 
ittacked  the  favorite  British  doctrine  that  the  colonists  were  "virtually 
represented"  in  Parliament,  even  though  they  elected  no  member  of  it. 
But  he  believed  firmly  that  the  colonists'  best  course  was  not  revolt  but 
frugality  and  reliance  on  their  own  manufactures,  in  order  to  teach  Eng- 
land that  taxation  was  unprofitable  since  her  welfare  depended  on  theirs. 

Let  the  manufacture  of  America  be  the  symbol  of  dignity,  the  badge  of  virtue, 
and  it  will  soon  break  the  fetters  of  distress.  A  garment  of  linsey-wolsey, 
when  made  the  distinction  of  real  patriotism,  is  more  honourable  and  attractive 
;of  respect  and  veneration,  than  all  the  pageantry,  and  the  robes,  and  the  plumes, 
land  the  diadem  of  an  emperor  without  it.15 

jMuch  of  the  force  of  this  came  from  the  fact  that  earlier  American 
[writers  had  made  homespun  and  simple  living  symbols  of  the  special 
'colonial  virtues. 

When  more  violent  views  prevailed  Dulany  refused  to  follow.  He  was 
threatened  and  his  property  taken,  but  he  refused  to  yield  and  ended  his 
brilliant  legal  career  on  a  point  of  principle. 

James  Otis  of  Massachusetts  (1725-83)  was  a  lawyer  too,  but  where 
"liberty"  was  concerned  he  cared  little  for  narrow  legalism.  In  1761  he 
was  advocate  general  in  Boston,  and  made  a  brilliant  speech  against  the 
regranting  of  "writs  of  assistance"— general  search  warrants— to  the  royal 
customs  officers.  John  Adams  said  later  "American  independence  was  then 
and  there  born."  16  In  the  next  year  Otis  published  A  Vindication  of  the 
\pondiict  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  defending  the  House  for  its 
jopposition  to  the  royal  governor  of  Massachusetts,  and,  in  1764,  the  best 
|of  his  political  tracts,  The  Rights  of  the  British  Colonies  Asserted  and 
\Proved  (Boston,  1764).  In  1765  he  wrote  three  more  defenses  of  the 
colonial  position.  He  never  advocated  a  war  for  independence  and  he 
ihad  faith  in  the  essential  virtues  of  the  British  constitution,  but  it  is  cer- 
Itain  that  he  would  have  joined  the  rebels  in  1775  if  his  health  had  per- 
mitted. He  was,  however,  injured  in  a  fight  with  one  of  the  customs 
commissioners  in  Boston  and  was  insane  for  most  of  the  period  from 
177 1  until  his  death. 

15  [Daniel  Dulany],  Considerations  on  the  Propriety  of  Imposing  Taxes  in  the 
British  Colonies  .. .  I  Annapolis,  1765 J,  p.  39. 

16  Works  of  John  Adams,  ed.  Charles  F.  Adams  (1850-56),  Vol,  10,  p.  247.  Refer- 
ences are  to  this  edition. 


1 42  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

His  power  as  a  propagandist  for  doctrines  which  became  bases  foi 
revolution  depended  largely  on  his  literary  gifts.  After  leaving  Harvard! 
he  studied  literature  and  philosophy  and  in  1760  published  The  Rudiments, 
of  Latin  Prosody,  with  a  Dissertation  on  Letters,  and  the  Principles  o]\ 
Harmony,  in  Poetic  and  Prosaic  Composition. . .  17  He  loved  the  classics] 
often  quoted  Swift,  admired  Shakespeare,  Milton,  Drvden,  and  Pope,  but) 
was  never  hampered  by  slavish  respect  for  stylistic  traditions.  John  Adams 
said  his  oratory  was  "a  flame  of  fire,"  18  and  the  metaphor  is  suggestive. 
His  prose  crackles  and  spits  like  burning  spruce  and  the  blaze  leaps  and; 
flares.  Exaggeration,  crude  phrasing,  careless  structure,  and  faults  in  logic 
did  not  matter  so  long  as  the  flame  was  hot  and  the  sparks  flew  far.  Otis'l 
later  madness  may  have  been  foreshadowed  in  the  passionate  recklessness1 
of  his  eloquence,  but  if  so  it  was  a  madness  close  to  genius. 

He  had  a  vein  of  humor— "No  government  has  a  right  to  make  hobby! 
horses,  asses  and  slaves  of  the  subject,  nature  having  made  sufficient  of  the! 
two  former . . .  but  none  of  the  last,  which  infallibly  proves  they  are  un- 
necessary" 19— but  he  could  be  impressively  grave  on  occasion.  Govern- 
ment "has  an  everlasting  foundation  in  the  unchangeable  will  of  GOD, 
the  author  of  nature,  whose  laws  never  vary."  Power  is  " originally  and 
ultimately  in  the  people. . . .  They  never  did  in  fact  freely,  nor  can  they 
rightfully  make  an  absolute,  unlimited  renunciation  of  this  divine  right. . . . 
Tyranny  of  all  kinds  is  to  be  abhored,  whether  it  be  in  the  hands  of  one, 
or  of  the  few,  or  of  the  many."  20  The  purpose  of  government  is  "the 
good  of  the  whole"  "There  is  no  one  act  which  a  government  can  have 
a  right  to  make,  that  does  not  tend  to  the  advancement  of  the  security, 
tranquility,  and  prosperity  of  the  people."  21 

With  dual  prophecy  Otis  wrote: 

The  Sun  rises  and  sets  every  day  in  the  sight  of  five  millions  of  his  majesty's 
American  subjects,  white,  brown,  and  black  . . .  The  period  is  not  very  remote 
when  these  may  be  increased  to  an  hundred  millions.  Five  millions  of . . .  true 
and  loyal  subjects, ...  with  their  good  affections  to  the  best  civil  constitution 
in  the  world,  descending  to  unborn  miriads,  is  no  small  object.  God  grant  it 
may  be  well  attended  to!  ...Revolutions  have  been;  they  may  be  again;  nay, 

in  the  course  of  time  they  must  be All  history  will  prove  that  provinces 

have  never  been  disposed  to  independency,  while  well  treated.  Well  treated; 
then  they  shall  be.22 

John  Adams  (1 735-1826)  was  a  literary  champion  of  the  American 
cause,  as  well  as  a  statesman,  a  diplomat,  and  the  second  President  of 

1  ~  He  also  wrote  on  Greek  prosody  but  the  work  was  never  printed. 
18  Works,  Vol.  10,  p.  247. 
1 !)  James  Otis,  A    Vindication   of  the  Conduct   of  the  House   of  Representatives 
(Boston,  1762),  pp.  18-19. 

20  James  Otis,  The  Rights  of  the  British  Colonies ...  (London,  1764),  pp.  11-13. 

21  Otis,  Rights  of  the  British  Colonies,  pp.  13-14. 

22  James  Otis,  Considerations  on  Behalf  of  the  Colonists  (London,  1765),  pp.  30-32. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY      143 

the  United  States,  whose  achievements  are  commonplaces  of  history.  A 
iwise  and  well-read  lawyer,  philosophic  by  temperament,  intellectually 
curious,  and  an  eager  student  of  motives  and  behavior,  he  wrote  sound 
rather  than  brilliant  prose.  He  often  dramatized  exposition  and  argument 
by  concrete  illustrations  from  history  or  his  own  experience;  he  wrote  a 
lew  passages  of  colorful  invective  and  incisive  character  analysis;  he  was 
quietly  humorous  now  and  then  although  not  often  witty;  and  he  used 
competently  the  conventional  rhetorical  devices  of  polemic  oratory.  His 
flame  burned  more  evenly  than  Otis'  and  sometimes  more  radiantly,  and 
although  no  one  of  his  writings  is  a  literary  masterpiece  few  are  even 
now  completely  lifeless.  His  erudition  is  rarely  intrusive  and  frequently 
gives  depth  to  what  otherwise  might  seem  commonplace;  his  interest  in 
general  political  and  moral  problems  and  in  historical  interpretation  often 
I  makes  his  comments  stimulating. 

In  1768  Thomas  Hollis,  an  English  liberal  who  was  a  friend  of  Mayhew 
land  by  his  gifts  of  books  and  his  correspondence  did  much  to  spread 
liberal  ideas  in  the  colonies,  published  in  London  Adams'  Dissertation 
on  the  Canon  and  the  Feudal  Law.  It  contained  four  essays  which  had 
;  appeared  three  years  earlier  in  the  Boston  Gazette  and  the  London  Chron- 
\  tele  and  were  now  fitted  together  to  make  a  book.  The  Stamp  Act  is 
i  presented  as  a  new  manifestation  of  a  conflict,  persistent  throughout  his- 
I  tory,  between  the  individual  and  corporate  authority.  Canon  and  feudal 
I  law  were  expressions  of  the  latter  and  tools  of  popery  and  tyranny.  They 
were  sources  of  evil  which  the  Protestant  Reformation  had  tried  to  up- 
root. The  opponents   of  Britain  were  therefore  heroes   in   an  age-old 
campaign  against  error. 

The  settlement  of  New  England  seemed  to  Adams,  just  as  it  had  to 
William  Bradford,  a  landmark  on  the  road  to  righteousness,  and  the  Dis- 
sertation eulogizes  the  Puritan  pioneers.  "It  was  not  religion  alone,  as  is 
commonly  supposed"  that  "peopled  America  ...  but ...  a  love  of  universal 
liberty."  Adams,  the  Protestant  and  the  rationalist,  declares  that  his  fore- 
fathers "knew  that  government  was . . .  founded  in  nature  and  reason" 
and  "detested  all  the  base  services  and  servile  dependencies  of  the  feudal 
system."  "They  . . .  transmitted  to  their  posterity  ...  a  hereditary  ardor 
for  liberty  and  thirst  for  knowledge." 

"The  prospect  now  before  us  in  America,"  Adams  went  on,  "ought . . . 
to  engage  the  attention  of  every  man  of  learning."  Britain  intended  "an 
entire  subversion  of  the  whole  system  of  our  fathers."  As  a  first  step  the 
Stamp  Act  would  "strip  us  in  a  great  measure  of  the  means  of  knowledge, 
by  loading  the  press,  the  colleges,  and  even  an  almanack  and  a  newspaper, 
with  restraints  and  duties."  The  end  would  be  "to  enslave  all  America." 
Adams'  Novanglus  essays,   printed  in    1774  and    1775   in  the  Boston 

23  Works,  Vol.  3,  pp.  451,  454-455^  464- 


i44  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Gazette,  argue  that  English  laws  do  not  apply  to  the  colonies.  The  case 
is  supported  by  legal  and  historical  evidence,  much  of  it  too  technical 
to  appeal  to  lav  audiences,  and  the  essays  are  closely  focussed  on  a  specific  I 
problem  which  is  no  longer  of  current  concern.  But  the  best  pages 
live  by  virtue  of  Adams'  rhetoric.  "By  what  law,"  he  asks,  has  the  Parlia- 
ment "authority  over  America?" 

By  the  law  of  God,  in  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  it  has  none; ...  by  the 
common  law  of  England,  it  has  none,  for  the  common  law . . .  never  extended 
beyond  the  four  seas;  by  statute  law  it  has  none,  for  no  statute  was  made  before 
the  settlement  of  the  colonies  for  this  purpose . . .  What  religious,  moral,  or 
political  obligations  then  are  we  under  to  submit  to  parliament  as  a  supreme 
legislative?  None  at  all.  When  it  is  said,  that  if  we  are  not  subject  to  the  supreme 
authority  of  parliament,  Great  Britain  will  make  us  so,  all  other  laws  and 
obligations  are  given  up,  and  recourse  is  had  to  the  ratio  ultima  of  Louis  XIV 
and  the  suprema  lex  of  the  king  of  Sardinia— to  the  law  of  brickbats  and  cannon 
balls,  which  can  be  answered  only  by  brickbats  and  balls.24 

Adams'  "magnum  opus,"  his  famous  Defence  of  the  Constitutions  of 
Government  of  the  United  States  (London,  1787-88),  is  difficult  except 
for  professional  students,  but  there  are  passages  which  show  the  high 
stylistic  level  his  training  in  the  classics  and  his  familiarity  with  the  best 
of  the  Puritan  prose  tradition  enabled  him  to  achieve.  His  power  is  most 
apparent  when  his  work  is  compared  with  that  of  Samuel  Adams  (1722- 
1803)  or  Patrick  Henry  (1736-99),  both  popular  patriotic  leaders  and 
compelling  orators.  They  were  often  brilliant,  but  they  usuallv  lacked 
Adams'  intellectual  sinew  and  rhetorical  discipline.  Their  work,  read 
today  without  benefit  of  the  orator's  voice  or  the  excitement  of  the  crisis 
they  faced,  has  lost  much  of  its  sparkle.  Onlv  a  few  paragraphs  now 
kindle  the  emotion  or  provoke  the  thought  that  many  of  Adams'  still 
can. 

In  his  diary  and  letters  the  tone  is  familiar  without  being  trivial  and  his 
expertness  in  diction  and  structure  is  used  to  give  an  effect  of  disarming 
frankness.  He  admitted  his  "partial  fondness"  and  "overweening  prejudice 
in  favor  of  New  England"  and  recognized  that  they  sometimes  exposed 
him  "to  just  ridicule."  He  was  too  convinced  of  the  weaknesses  com- 
mon to  all  men  to  disguise  his  own.  In  1796  he  wrote: 

What  would  I  not  give  for  the  harp  of  Amphion?  . . .  Alas!  I  am  not  an 
Amphion.  I  have  been  thirty  years  singing  and  whistling  among  my  rocks, 
and  not  one  would  ever  move  without  money.  I  have  been  twenty  years  saying 
if  not  singing,  preaching  if  not  playing— 

From  various  discords  to  create 
The  music  of  a  well  tuned  state  . . . 
but  an  uncomplying  world  will  not  regard  my  uncouth  discourses . . .  What 
a  mortification  to  my  vanity!  What  a  humiliation  to  my  self-love!  The  rocks 
24  Works,  Vol.  4,  pp.  37-38. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY     145 

'in  the  House  of  Representatives  will  not  dance  to  my  lyre... They  are  for 
l  breaking  all  the  instruments  but  that  of  the  thorough  bass,  and  then  blowing 
you  deaf  and  dumb.2r) 

Adams  had  the  moral  earnestness  of  his  Puritan  ancestors  and  their 
jrespect  for  history  and  learning,  but  he  was  also  the  product  of  a  New 
England  in  which  Locke  and  Newton  were  as  important  as  Calvin.  He 
could  enjoy  the  gardens  and  squares  of  Paris  and  the  novels  of  Sterne, 
even  though  he  thought  "painting,  poetry,  music,  architecture,  statuary, 
tapestry,  and  porcelain"  were  less  important  than  government,  mathe- 
matics, and  philosophy.20  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  his  pleas  for 
education  and  "The  Encouragement  of  Literature"  helped  to  keep  alive 
in  the  new  nation  some  of  the  finest  values  of  its  native  tradition.27 

x\dams,  Otis,  and  the  other  patriot  pamphleteers  had  to  write  well  to 
hold  their  own  against  their  foes.  The  Loyalists,  or  Tories,  who  supported 
Britain,  were  probably  in  the  majority  in  some  of  the  colonies  and  were 
strongly  represented  in  all.  They  were  most  numerous  in  the  upper 
classes,  and  Justice  iYIcKean  thought  that  they  comprised  more  than  one- 
third  of  the  "influential  characters1'  in  the  colonies.28  Wealthy  citizens 
who  read  English  books  and  followed  English  fashions  looked  overseas 
with  provincial  nostalgia.  Moreover,  the  question  of  home  rule  for  the 
colonies  "could  not  be  divorced  from  the  question  of  who  was  to  rule 
in  America. "  29  To  many  conservative  men  of  property  the  critics  of  the 
status  quo  were  rabble-rousers  encouraging  the  mob  against  the  politically 
and  socially  elect.  The  Loyalists  probably  had  more  than  an  equal  share 
of  the  most  sophisticated  reading  public,  and  there  were  many  able  writers 
on  their  side. 

For  example,  Joseph  Galloway  ( 173 ir-1803),  a  Philadelphia  lawyer, 
presented  in  soberly  powerful  prose  a  plan  of  "union"  by  which  the 
[colonies  would  have  "home  rule,"  but  keep  their  British  allegiance,  and 
inveighed  against  the  patriots  who  prated  about  justice  and  freedom  but 
robbed  their  opponents  of  civil  liberties  and  lawlessly  abused  them.  An- 
other Loyalist,  Daniel  Leonard  (1740-1829),  took  the  same  ground,  and 
the  essays  in  his  Massachusettensis  (Boston,  1775),  seemed  to  Adams 
dangerous  because  of  their  "wit"  and  "subtlety  of  art  and  address." 
Some  of  his  sentences  still  ring  true: 

25  Letters  of  John  Adams,  Addressed  to  his  Wife,  ed.  Charles  F.  Adams  (1841). 
Vol.  1,  p.  74;  Vol.  2,  pp.  209-210. 

-6  Familiar  Letters  of  John  Adams  and  His  Wife,  ed.  Charles  F.  Adams  (1875). 
p.  381. 

27  Cf.  Statesman  and  Friend.  Correspondence  of  John  Adams  with  Benjamin 
Waterhouse,  1784-1822,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford  (Little,  Brown  and  Company, 
Boston,  1927),  pp.  24-25. 

28  Works  of  John  Adams,  Vol.  10,  p.  87. 

29  Samuel  E.  Morison  and  Henry  S.  Commager,  The  Growth  of  the  American 
Republic   (Oxford  University  Press,  1942),  Vol.  1,  p.   199. 

30  Works,  Vol.  2,  p.  405. 


146  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

There  is  a  propensity  in  men  to  believe  themselves  injured  whenever  they 
are  told  so. 

Popular  demagogues  always  call  themselves  the  people. 

Great  allowances  are  to  be  made  for  the  crossings,  windings  and  tergiversations 
of  a  politician;  he  is  a  cunning  animal.31 

Still  another  Loyalist,  Samuel  Seabury,  belongs  with  John  Dickinson 
and  Thomas  Paine  in  the  triumvirate  of  political  writers  who  surpassed 
in  literary  quality  all  the  others  except  Franklin,  already  commented 
upon,  and  Hamilton  and  Jefferson,  whose  best  work  was  done  after  the 
Revolution. 

John  Dickinson  (173 2- 1808),  the  first  of  the  three  to  enter  the  Revolu- 
tionary debate,  was  a  conservative  lawyer  who  opposed  the  idea  of 
separation  from  Britain  as  long  as  there  seemed  to  be  any  way  to  avoid 
it.  His  reputation  was  therefore  greatest  before  1775;  after  that  year  some 
of  his  radical  countrymen  vilified  him  as  a  foe  of  freedom.  He  proved 
them  wrong  and  since  his  death  he  has  been  celebrated  as  "the  penman 
of  the  American  Revolution."  32 

He  was  born  in  Maryland  and  studied  law  in  Philadelphia  and  in 
London.  He  was  successful  at  the  bar,  served  in  the  legislatures  of  Dela- 
ware and  Pennsylvania,  and  in  1765  was  chosen  to  represent  the  latter  in 
the  Stamp  Act  Congress.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Continental  Congress 
from  1774  until  1776,  when  he  joined  the  American  army.  In  1779  he 
was  again  in  Congress  and  in  1781  he  was  made  chief  of  the  Executive 
Council  of  Delaware.  In  the  next  year  he  was  given  the  same  office  in 
Pennsylvania.  He  saw,  like  Adams,  the  importance  of  education  for  the 
new  nation  and  worked  hard  to  establish  the  college  which  still  bears 
his  name. 

He  was  the  author  of  many  important  state  papers  and  in  them  proved 
himself  a  master  in  a  difficult  genre,  combining  dignity  and  precise  dic- 
tion with  a  graceful  phrasing  and  an  inconspicuous  but  persuasive  rhetoric 
not  found  in  most  official  documents.  He  also  wrote  political  essays  for 
the  newspapers,  broadsides,  and  even  a  song,  which  he  sent  to  James  Otis 
in  1768.  It  became  popular,  less  because  of  any  intrinsic  merit  than  be- 
cause it  was  modelled  on  Garrick's  familiar  "Hearts  of  Oak."  The  Loyal- 
ist parody  of  his  verses  was  quite  as  singable  and  more  amusing.  He  wrote: 

Come  join  hand  in  hand,  brave  Americans  all, 
And  rouse  your  bold   hearts  at  fair  Liberty's  call; 
No  tyrannous  acts,  shall  suppress  your  just  claim, 
Or  stain  with  dishonor  America's  name. 

31  [Daniel  Leonard  I,  Massachusettensis  (Boston,  1775),  pp.  14,  115,  39. 

32  Cf.  Tyler,  Literary  History,  Vol.  2,  pp.  21,  24. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY      147 

The  Tories  retorted: 

Come  shake  your  dull  noddles,  vc  pumpkins,  and  bawl, 
And  own  that  you're  mad  at  fair  Liberty's  call; 
No  scandalous  conduct  can  add  to  your  shame, 
Condemn'd  to  dishonor,  inherit  the  fame.1 ! 

Dickinson's  most  popular  and  most  important  work  was  his  Letters 
from  a  Farmer  in  Pennsylvania  to  the  Inhabitants  of  the  British  Colonies, 
a  collection  of  twelve  essays  first  printed  in  late  1767  and  early  1768  in 
the  Pennsylvania  Chronicle,  and  issued  in  book  form  in  Philadelphia  in 
the  latter  year.  They  also  appeared  in  twenty-one  of  the  twenty-five 
colonial  newspapers,  scattered  from  New  England  to  Georgia.54  The  col- 
lected volume  had  at  least  six  American  editions  as  well  as  two  English, 
one  Irish,  and  one  French.  In  Europe  the  "essays  . . .  became,  for  a  time, 
the  fashion,"  Voltaire  praised  them,  "they  were  talked  of  in  the  salons 
of  Paris,"  and  "the  Farmer  himself  was  likened  to  Cicero."  S5  The  ap- 
pearance of  the  Letters  has  been  called  "the  most  brilliant  event  in  the 
literary  history  of  the  Revolution,"  36  and  if  Dickinson  was  "as  pre- 
eminent" in  that  history  as  Washington  was  in  war  or  Franklin  in  diplo- 
macy, it  was  chiefly  because  of  this  book.37 

Dickinson  maintained  that  Britain's  acts  were  unconstitutional,  whereas 
the  colonists  were  upholding  the  traditional  principles  of  English  law. 
The  English  were  therefore  the  real  rebels.  The  case  was  supported  by 
historical  citations  and  legal  precedents  and  was  adroitly  argued.  Dickin- 
son could  be  answered  only  by  a  scholar  and  jurist  as  able  as  he  was  him- 
self. The  Tories  raged  and  called  him  "seditious,"  "superficial,"  and 
"furious,"  38  but  his  argument  could  not  be  disposed  of  by  epithets.  Pitt 
seems  to  have  got  ammunition  from  Dulany;  Dickinson  probably  con- 
tributed to  Burke. 

When  the  war  came,  Dickinson  followed  a  perfectly  consistent  course 
and  joined  the  American  army.  He  had  urged  a  legal  settlement  of  the 
dispute,  but  he  had  also  insisted  that  armed  resistance  was  a  duty  when 
constitutional  rights  could  be  preserved  in  no  other  way.  His  radical 
congressional  colleagues  "resting  in  quiet  and  safety"  while  he  took  up 
arms,  had  him  expelled  from  their  assembly  and  by  their  insults  forced 
him  to  resign  his  military  commission,  but  he  promptly  volunteered  as  a 
private  and  fought  at  Brandy  wine.  In  1776  he  wrote  bitterly  from  the 
army: 

33  Frank  Moore,  Songs  and  Ballads  of  the  American  Revolution  (1856),  pp.  37,  41. 

34  Philip  Davidson,  Propaganda  and  the  American  Revolution  (1941),  p.  243. 

35  Tyler,  Literary  History,  Vol.  1,  p.  237;  Charles  J.  Stille,  The  Life  and  Times  of 
]ohn  Dickinson  (1891),  p.  92. 

36  Tyler,  Literary  History,  Vol.  1,  p.  234. 

37  The  Writings  of  John  Dickinson,  ed.  Paul  L.  Ford  (1895),  Vol.  1,  p.  ix. 

38  Tyler,  Literary  History,  Vol.  1,  p.  238. 


i48  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

I  can  form  no  idea  of  a  more  noble  fate  than,  after  being  the  constant  advocate 
for  and  promoter  of  every  measure  that  could  possiblv  lead  to  peace  or  prevent 
her  return  from  being  barred  up;  after  cheerfully  and  deliberately  sacrificing 
my  popularity  and  all  the  emoluments  I  might  certainly  have  derived  from  it, 
to  principle;  after  suffering  all  the  indignities  that  my  countrymen  now  bearing 
rule  are  inclined,  if  they  could,  so  plentifullv  to  shower  down  upon  my  innocent 
head,— than  willingly  to  resign  my  life,  if  Divine  Providence  shall  please  so 
to  dispose  of  me,  for  the  defence  and  happiness  of  those  unkind  countrvmen 
whom  I  cannot  forbear  to  esteem  as  fellow-citizens  amidst  their  fury  against 
me.39 

Whatever  the  fervent  radicals  thought,  cooler  spirits  must  still  have 
turned  back  to  the  Letters  for  a  sound  principle  of  patriotism,  and  must 
have  recognized  Dickinson's  prophetic  quality: 

In  quarrels  between  countries,  as  well  as  in  those  between  individuals,  when 
they  have  risen  to  a  certain  heighth,  the  first  cause  of  dissention  is  no  longer 
remembered,  the  minds  of  the  parties  being  wholly  engaged  in  recollecting 
and  resenting  the  mutual  expressions  of  their  dislike  . . .  Wise  and  good  men 
in  vain  oppose  the  storm,  and  may  think  themselves  fortunate,  if,  endeavouring 
to  preserve  their  ungrateful  fellow  citizens,  they  do  not  ruin  themselves.  Their 
prudence  will  be  called  baseness;  their  moderation,  guilt. . .  .40 

There  is  nothing  showy  about  Dickinson's  vocabulary  and  his  rhythms 
are  subdued  in  consonance  with  the  spirit  of  his  argument.  His  prose  has 
the  tone  of  serious  talk  bv  a  thoughtful  and  moderate  man,  but  it  avoids 
trivial  colloquialisms  and  is  dignified  without  being  pompous.  He  knew 
how  to  put  a  complex  point  simply  and  forcefully  without  cheapening  it 
and  how  to  plead  for  things  he  cared  for  deeply  without  sobs  or  shouts. 
He  lacked  humor  and  sometimes  followed  too  meekly  some  of  the  stiffly 
decorous  prose  conventions  of  his  day,  but  most  of  his  pages  convey 
impressively  the  dignity— even  beauty— of  his  thought.  His  simplest 
sentences,  the  paragraphs  which  seem  most  unstudied,  and  his  most  un- 
pretentious images,  are  all  fitted  into  an  expertly  contrived  harmony.  He 
knew  the  effect  he  wanted  to  make  and  the  audience  he  must  reach,  and 
also  how  to  produce  just  the  rhetorical  tone  that  would  most  persua- 
sively serve  his  ends. 

The  very  title,  Letters  frojit  a  Fanner  in  Pennsylvania,  is  an  index  of 
his  skill.  He  was  not  a  professional  farmer,  but  he  pretended  to  be  be- 
cause he  knew  that  the  American  who  worked  his  own  land  had  become 
a  symbol  of  colonial  virtues.  Romantic  lovers  of  nature,  agrarian  theorists, 
and  practical  men  who  made  money  from  the  American  soil,  were  more 
likely  to  listen  to  a  farmer  than  to  a  city  lawyer.  Dickinson  shrewdly 
began  his  essays  by  characterizing  the  man  who  was  to  speak  for  him. 
He  had  a  small  farm,  a  few  servants,  a  little  capital,  a  good  library,  and 

•",!'  Stillc,  Life,  p.  206,  202-203. 

40  Letters  from  a  Farmer  in  Pennsylvania,  ed.  R.  T.  H.  Halsey  (1903),  pp.  33-34. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY      i49 

some  learned  friends.  He  had,  therefore,  more  "knowledge  in  history 
and  the  laws  and  constitution  of"  his  "country"  than  most  of  his  class 
He  had  been  taught  "from  infancy  ...  to  love  humanity  and  liberty"  and 
believed  that  on  them  depended  the  "welfare"  of  mankind.  These  "senti 
ments . . .  encouraged"  him  to  write  for  his  countrymen  his  "thoughts  on 
some  late  transactions."  41 

This  sketch  of  his  imaginary  farmer  enabled  Dickinson  to  keep  his  argu- 
ment on  a  high  level  and  to  write  in  the  manner  in  which  he  was  happiest. 
Probably  no  actual  American  farmer  ever  discussed  constitutional  law 
in  the  style  of  the  Letters,  but  the  prose  was  just  what  the  ideal  American 
agriculturist,  a  "hero"  in  colonial  mythology,  should  have  written  in 
order  to  live  up  to  the  legend  of  his  nobility  and  freedom  of  spirit. 

The  most  brilliant  of  the  American  Tory  writers,  Samuel  Seabury 
(1729-96),  of  Connecticut,  saw  the  effectiveness  of  Dickinson's  device 
and  wrote  under  the  pseudonym  of  "The  Westchester  Farmer,"  although 
he  was  by  profession  an  Anglican  cleric.  He  came  of  an  old  New  England 
family  and  was  devoted  to  his  country,  but  he  could  not  believe  in  rebel- 
lion against  Britain.  He  was  well  read,  trained  in  medicine  as  well  as  in 
theology,  and  a  sharp  and  understanding  observer  of  character.  He  was 
a  big  man,  spiritually  and  physically,  and  spoke  his  mind  with  the  direct- 
ness of  his  Puritan  ancestors.  Like  them  he  could  not  be  silenced  by  force 
and  insisted  on  his  right  to  think  and  act  as  he  chose. 

His  first  published  contribution  to  the  Revolutionary  debate,  Free 
Thoughts  on  the  Proceedings  of  the  Continental  Congress  (1774), 
shocked  the  patriots,  because  it  presented  dramatically  a  Loyalist  argu- 
ment which  was  bound  to  appeal  to  hard-working  men  who  cared  more 
for  the  sale  of  their  crops  than  for  the  "law  of  nature."  Seabury's  "West- 
chester Farmer"  was  intellectually  a  cut  below7  Dickinson's  Pennsylvanian, 
not  because  his  creator  lacked  learning  but  because  he  saw  how  persuasive 
it  might  be  to  argue  like  a  man  with  no  pretensions  to  scholarship.  Real- 
istic touches  are  deftly  introduced  and  the  tone  is  carefully  kept  informal. 

In  one  passage  Seabury  demonstrated  that  the  tax  on  tea  "which  has 
raised  all  this  confounded  combustion  in  the  country"  could  be  paid  by 
any  sensible  farmer  with  the  crop  from  "a  bushel  of  flaxseed  once  in 
THIRTY-THREE  years."  But  Seabury  did  not  remind  his  compa- 
triots only  of  their  purses.  He  worked  on  their  love  of  liberty  and  their 
feeling  that  they  had  local  privileges  and  rights  w  hich  were  important 
for  their  success.  Why  should  they  bow  to  Congress  if  Congress  did  not 
serve  their  interests?  Seabury  declared  that  it  would  let  "the  proud  mer- 
chant, and  the  forsworn  smuggler"— an  interesting  juxtaposition!— "riot 
in  their  ill-gotten  wealth,"  while  "the  laborious  farmers,  the  grand  support 
of  every  well-regulated  country,  must"  run  into  debt  and  "all  go  to  the 
dogs  together."  The  committees  of  Congress  might  "be  chosen  by  the 
41  Letters,  p.  6. 


i5o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

weak,  foolish,  turbulent  part  of  the  country  people."  "Will  you  submit 
to  them?",  Seabury  asked  his  "laborious  farmers."  42  His  vigorous  appeal 
to  class  prejudices  and  economic  bias  was  made  effective  by  his  wit,  his 
talent  for  dramatization,  and  his  command  of  the  "plain  English"  of  a 
"plain  countryman . .  .  calling  a  fig— a  Fig,  an  egg— an  Egg."  43 

His  first  pamphlet  was  followed  within  two  weeks  by  a  second,  The 
Congress  Canvassed . . . ,  in  which  he  addressed  the  New  York  merchants. 
The  patriots,  he  asserted,  were  theoretically  and  practically  wrong.  He 
addressed  himself  to  men  who  read  ledgers  more  easily  than  legal  dis- 
sertations, and  asserted  that,  if  the  colonists  won  a  war  against  Britain, 
there  would  be  squabbling  and  probably  bloodshed  before  they  could  set 
up  a  government.  If  they  lost,  as  they  probably  would,  "CONFISCA- 
TIONS"—terrifying  word  to  a  merchant!— "must  close  the  HORRID 
TRAGEDY."  44 

No  one  of  the  patriots  got  the  better  of  Seabury  on  his  own  ground. 
Two  brilliant  retorts  did  appear,  however—^  Full  Vindication  of  the 
Measures  of  the  Congress  and  The  Tanner  Refitted  (New  York,  1774 
and  1775)— both  printed  anonymously.  They  argued  that  the  colonies 
owed  allegiance  only  to  the  King  and  not  to  Parliament  and  probed  into 
economic  issues  so  brilliantly  that  they  were  ascribed  to  some  old  and 
experienced  writer.  Actually  both  were  by  Alexander  Hamilton,  then  in  I 
his  teens  and  a  student  at  King's  College  in  New  York,  and  were  auguries 
of  his  later  literary  and  political  greatness. 

Seabury  continued  the  debate  with  A  View  of  the  Controversy  between 
Great  Britain  and  the  Colonies...  (1774),  and  declared  that  allegiance 
to  Britain  was  in  no  way  out  of  line  with  devotion  to  America.  "I  have  no 
interest  but  in  America,"  45  he  declared.  He  took  another  tack  in  his  j 
fourth  pamphlet,  An  Alarm  to  the  Legislature  of  the  Province  of  New 
York ...  (17 7  5).  The  legislature  was,  he  maintained,  the  only  lawful 
agent  of  the  people,  and  Congress  and  its  committees  were  usurping  its 
authority.  But  the  skirmishing  at  Lexington  and  Concord  in  April,  1775, 
was  a  powerful  emotional  stimulant,  and  the  time  for  legal  debate  was 
past.  Seabury  never  published  his  last  pamphlet,  The  Republican  Dis- 
sected, although  it  was  advertised  on  April  20,  1775. 

In  November  Seabury's  house  was  invaded  by  a  patriotic  mob.  His  j 
daughters  were  insulted  and  the  defenders  of  freedom  and  justice  indulged 
in  vandalism  and  looting.  Seabury  was  captured  and  imprisoned  for  a 
month  without  trial.  After  his  release  he  was  in  constant  danger  and  once  j 
had  to  hide  for  three  days  to  escape  the  attentions  of  the  lovers  of  liberty. 

'-Seabury,  Free  Thoughts  in,  Letters  of  a  Westchester  Farmer,  ed.  Clarence  H. | 
Vance    (1930),  pp.  48,  60,  61. 

1 !  Seabury,  The  Congress  Canvassed  in  Letters,  p.  71. 

14  Letters,  p.  99. 

45  View  of  the  Controversy  in  Letters,  p.  128. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY      151 

By  1776  the  situation  was  intolerable  and  he  joined  the  British  in  New 
York,  where  he  served  as  an  army  chaplain  and  physician.  At  the  end  of 
the  war  he  was  made  the  first  bishop  of  the  Episcopal  church  in  America, 
and  the  best  testimony  to  his  basic  strength  is  the  fact  that  when  he  died 
in  1796  many  of  his  countrymen  who  had  once  hated  him  were  proud 
to  do  him  honor. 

After  1775  Thomas  Paine  (1 737-1 809)  surpassed  Seabury  and  Dickin- 
son in  his  popular  vogue  and  his  influence  on  opinion.  He  was  not  a 
profound  thinker  or  an  accurate  scholar,  but  he  was  one  of  the  few 
geniuses  of  all  time  in  "the  art  of  popular  persuasion."  4G  Probably  half 
a  million  copies  of  each  of  his  two  revolutionary  books  were  sold,  and 
one  of  them,  Common  Sense,  undoubtedly  gave  many  cautious  patriots 
the  tonic  they  needed  to  become  active  rebels.  His  ardent  belief  in  the 
perfection  of  the  law  of  nature,  in  the  individual  rights  of  man,  in  the 
social  contract  as  the  basis  of  political  authority,  in  representative  govern- 
ment, and  in  humanitarian  reform,  had  all  been  supported  before  with 
more  scholarly  and  systematic  arguments  than  he  offered,  but  he  brought 
to  the  expression  of  them  an  amazing  literary  gift.  Whether  he  indulged 
in  a  mordant  critique  of  monarchy  or  restated  familiar  egalitarian  doc- 
trines he  wrote  with  dazzling  effectiveness.  Thousands  of  Americans 
were  swept  off  their  feet  by  his  eloquence. 

His  active  connection  with  this  country  was  short.  He  was  born  in 
England  and  after  an  inglorious  career  as  a  stay-maker,  schoolteacher, 
and  excise  officer,  became  bankrupt  in  1774.  He  got  into  touch  with 
Franklin,  then  in  London,  and  in  October  set  off  for  the  colonies  with  a 
letter  from  the  author  of  "Poor  Richard,"  recommending  him  as  "an 
ingenious  worthy  young  man,"  fit  to  be  "a  clerk,  or  assistant  tutor  in  a 
school,  or  assistant  surveyor."  47  In  Philadelphia  he  edited  the  Fennsyl- 
vania  Magazine  for  eighteen  months  beginning  early  in  1775.  Its  circula- 
tion went  up  and  Paine's  contributions  to  it  and  to  the  Vennsylvania 
Journal  convinced  influential  Philadelphians,  like  Dr.  Benjamin  Rush, 
a  patriotic  physician,  scientist,  and  essayist,  that  he  could  be  a  powerful 
ally  in  the  campaign  against  Britain.  In  January,  1776,  his  Coimnon  Sense: 
Addressed  to  the  Inhabitants  of  America,  came  out  and  at  once  had  a 
sensational  success.  In  December,  when  things  looked  very  black  for  the 
American  forces,  he  produced  The  Crisis,  the  first  of  thirteen  essays, 
written  at  intervals  until  1783  and  designed  to  keep  up  the  morale  of 
patriots. 

After  serving  for  a  time  as  secretary  of  the  congressional  committee 
on  foreign  affairs  and  making  a  brief  trip  abroad  to  enlist  French  aid, 

46  C.  E.  Merriam,  "Political  Theories  of  Thomas  Paine,"  Pol.  Sci.  Quart.,  Vol.  14, 
no.  3   (Sept.,  1899),  p.  402. 

47  The  Writings  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  ed.  Albert  H.  Smyth  (1907)1  Vol.  6, 
pp.  248-249. 


1 52  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Paine  went  to  England  in  1787,  and  in  1789  to  France,  where  another 
revolution  claimed  his  zealous  support.  In  1791  he  published  the  first 
part  of  The  Rights  of  Man,  an  answer  to  Edmund  Burke's  strictures  on 
the  French  Revolution,  and  returned  to  England.  The  second  part  of  the 
Rights  was  printed  in  the  next  year.  Paine  was  charged  with  sedition,  but 
escaped  to  France  and  published  his  "Letter  to  the  Addressers,"  really 
a  third  section  of  The  Rights  of  Man,  in  which  he  urged  the  English  to 
set  up  a  republic.  They  answered  by  outlawing  him  and  his  effigy  was 
burned  in  manv  British  towns.  He  opposed  the  execution  of  Louis  XVI, 
lost  his  popularity  with  the  French  radicals,  and  was  jailed  for  nearly 
a  year.  In  1794  The  Age  of  Reason,  an  attack  on  revealed  religion  and  a 
vigorous  if  unsystematic  statement  of  his  deistic  views,  was  published  in 
New  York,  London,  and  Paris.  It  outraged  the  conventionally  pious  and 
started  a  wave  of  scandal-mongering  against  Paine.  In  1796  his  bitter 
attack  on  George  Washington  increased  the  feeling  against  him,  but  in 
spite  of  this  he  came  back  to  the  United  States  in  1802  and  stayed  here 
until  his  death  in  1809.  He  opposed  the  Federalists,  aired  his  heterodox 
opinions  freely,  and  won  the  adoration  of  a  group  of  disciples,  who 
shared  his  views,  and  the  malice  of  those  who  did  not. 

In  1805  John  Adams,  who  followed  his  devotion  to  the  patriotic  cause 
by  devotion  to  Federalism  and  naturally  saw  the  French  Revolution  as 
a  terrifying  example  of  license,  called  him  a  chief  among  "Daemons." 

I  know  not  [Adams  wrote]  whether  any  Man  in  the  World  has  had  more 
influence . . .  for  the  last  thirty  years  than  Tom  Paine.  There  can  be  no  severer 
Satyr  on  the  Age.  For  such  a  mongrel  between  Pigg  and  Puppy,  begotten  by 
a  wild  Boar  on  a  Bitch  Wolf,  never  before  in  any  Age  of  the  World  was 
suffered  by  the  Poltroonery  of  mankind,  to  run  through  such  a  Career  of 
Mischief.  Call  it  then  the  Age  of  Paine.  He  deserves  it  much  more,  than  the 
Courtezan  who  was  consecrated  to  represent  the  Goddess  in  the  Temple  at 
Paris . . .  The  real  intellectual  faculty  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  Age,  the 
Strumpet,  or  Tom.48 

Adams  hated  Paine's  religious  views,  but  he  hated  even  more  his 
attack  on  the  social  and  political  orthodoxy  of  his  time.  It  is  suggestive 
that  many  assaults  on  "Tom's"  theology  have  come  from  critics  who  give 
less  evidence  of  Christian  zeal  than  of  love  for  that  orthodoxy. 

Unfortunately  Paine's  disciples  have  talked  almost  as  foolishly  as  his 
critics.  He  has  been  eulogized  as  an  intellectual  pioneer  and  prophet,  a 
solid  thinker,  and  an  originator  of  democratic  and  liberal  American  ideas. 
He  was  none  of  these  things,  but  he  was  a  genius  in  journalistic  propa- 
ganda who  did  valuable  service  in  a  critical  period  of  history.  His  work 
has  often  been  useful  in  good  causes  usually  by  its  emotional  heat  rather 

^Statesman  and  Friend.  Correspondence  of  John  Adams  with  Benjamin  Water- 
house,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford  (Little,  Brown  and  Company,  Boston,  1927),  p.  31. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY      153 

than  its  intellectual  vigor.  He  had  read  widely  if  superficially  and  under- 
stood the  essentials  of  the  humanitarian,  egalitarian,  and  proto-socialistic 
thinking  of  his  time,  but  his  "genius"  was  in  style,  not  thought. 

According  to  an  old  saying  the  secret  of  housewifery  is  to  "simplify, 
classify,  and  glorify."  This  was  Paine's  literary  formula.  He  reduces 
complex  ideas  to  simple  propositions,  sometimes  distorting  them  or 
omitting  basic  elements,  but  always  producing  a  black-and-white  lucidity. 
He  then  arranges  his  compact  statements  in  neat  categories  and  dins  them 
into  the  reader's  mind  by  repetition.  The  most  important  step,  "glorifica- 
tion," he  achieves  bv  linking  them  with  images  which  create  an  illusion 

JO  o 

of  beauty  and  nobility.  They  are  emotionally  provocative,  not  because 
they  "mean"  much  in  any  literal  sense  but  because  they  are  variations  on 
cliches  commonly  associated  with  the  good  and  the  true. 

"Government,  like  dress,  is  the  badge  of  lost  innocence"  is  a  witty 
phrasing  of  a  familiar  notion;  "the  palaces  of  kings  are  built  upon  the 
ruins  of  the  bowers  of  paradise"  is  effective  because  it  is  emotionally 
grateful.49  To  revolt  against  George  III  seemed  to  many  Americans  a 
daring  step;  it  was  vaguely  consoling,  although  not  rationally  reassuring, 
to  be  told  that  it  would  improve  the  landscape  architecture  of  Heaven. 
Phrases  like  Paine's  "summer  soldier"  and  "sunshine  patriot"  50  live  be- 
cause they  do  the  full  work  of  metaphors  and  say  more  than  literal 
statement  could;  usually,  however,  his  images,  for  all  their  polish,  reflect 
only  a  diffuse  glow,  attractive  to  hasty  readers  who  wanted  to  believe 
that  they  basked  in  the  light  of  truth  rather  than  to  absorb  an  intellectual 
demonstration  of  what  truth  was.  Paine  had  the  advertiser's  talent,  the 
knack  of  finding  slogans  which  are  easily  remembered  and  quotable 
because  they  tickle  the  ear,  and  carried  it  to  a  pitch  of  expertness  reached 
by  only  a  handful  of  propagandists  in  all  history. 

He  relies  for  the  most  part  on  very  simple  rhetorical  patterns.  Balance 
and  antithesis  were  two  of  the  most  common,  and  they,  along  with 
rhetorical  questions,  exclamatory  interjections,  and  the  stringing  together 
of  nearly  synonymous  phrases,  useful  for  both  clarity  and  rhythm, 
took  care  of  most  of  his  needs.  Some  of  his  favorite  devices  appear  in 
such  passages  as  these: 

Society  in  every  state  is  a  blessing,  but  Government,  even  in  its  best  state, 
is  but  a  necessary  evil;  in  its  worst  state  an  intolerable  one;  for  when  we  suffer, 
or  are  exposed  to  the  same  miseries  by  a  Government,  which  we  might  expect 
in  a  country  without  Government,  our  calamity  is  heightened  by  reflecting 
that  we  furnish  the  means  by  which  we  suffer.51 

49  Common  Sense,  in  Writings  of  Thomas  Paine,  ed.  Moncure  D.  Conway  (1894), 
Vol.  1,  p.  69.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

50  The  Crisis,  no.  1,  in  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  170. 

51  Common  Sense  in  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  69. 


i54  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Oppression  is  often  the  consequence,  but  seldom  or  never  the  means  of  riches; 
and  tho'  avarice  will  preserve  a  man  from  being  necessitously  poor,  it  gen- 
erally makes  him  too  timorous  to  be  wealthy.52 

'Tis  repugnant  to  reason,  to  the  universal  order  of  things,  to  all  examples 
from  former  ages,  to  suppose  that  this  Continent  can  long  remain  subject 

to  any  external  power Reconciliation  is  now  a  fallacious  dream.  Nature 

hath  deserted  the  connection,  and  art  cannot  supply  her  place.53 

O!  ye  that  love  mankind!  Ye  that  dare  oppose  not  only  the  tyranny  but  the 
tyrant,  stand  forth!  Every  spot  of  the  old  world  is  overrun  with  oppression. 
Freedom  hath  been  hunted  round  the  Globe.  Asia  and  Africa  have  long 
expelled  her.  Europe  regards  her  like  a  stranger,  and  England  hath  given  her 
Warning  to  depart.  O!  receive  the  fugitive,  and  prepare  in  time  an  asylum 
for  mankind.54 

Paine  theorized  somewhat  about  the  problems  of  his  craft,  but  for  the 
most  part  he  said  nothing  about  style  which  had  not  been  said  and  put 
into  practice  by  Puritan  writers  of  "plain"  prose,  his  friend  Franklin, 
and  many  of  his  American  and  English  contemporaries.  He  did,  however, 
give  a  clue  to  the  source  of  his  individual  stylistic  power,  when  he  said 
"The  mind  of  a  living  public  . . .  feels  first  and  reasons  afterwards,"  55 
and  when  he  advocated  literary  "boldness."  Violence,  hyperbole,  and 
Billingsgate  helped  to  stir  up  sluggish  minds.  "Say  a  bold  thing  that  will 
stagger  them,  and  they  will  begin  to  think."  56  Paine  is  at  his  best  when 
he  ignores  all  polite  restraints  in  the  heat  of  rough-and-tumble  fighting. 
No  enemy  was  safe  from  his  mud  and  vitriol.  He  dealt  in  destruction, 
tried  to  ruin  other  reputations  and  seriously  damaged  his  own,  and  was 
most  brilliant  when  he  was  most  bitter,  but  it  is  not  true  that  the  "mere 
instinct  or  pleasure  of  destruction"  57  was  his  dominant  motive.  The  driv- 
ing force  was  a  noble  passion  for  democracy,  humanity,  and  justice.  His 
writings  were  his  weapons  in  his  lifelong  crusade  for  what  he  saw  as  the 
inalienable  "rights  of  man."  Their  influence  was  widespread  and  enduring 
largely  because  he  was  an  artist,  the  master  of  a  genre. 

Paine,  Dickinson,  and  Seabury  proved  that  in  political  literature  at  least 
America  had  come  of  age  by  the  end  of  the  Revolution.  In  other  fields 
too  there  were  many  American  books  of  which  patriots  could  be  proud. 
The  experience  of  a  century  and  three-quarters  had  taught  the  colonists 
to  think  and  write  as  Americans,  and  they  had  demonstrated  their  in- 
tellectual and  literary  vigor  in  their  histories,  their  descriptions  of  their 

52  Writings,  Vol.  i,  p.  75. 
5:i  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  91. 

54  Writings,  Vol.  1,  pp.  100- 1 01. 

55  Letter  to  Silas  Dcane  in  Writings,  Vol.   1,  p.  395. 

56  Letter  to  Elihu  Palmer,  quoted  in  Moncure  D.  Conway,  Life  of  Thomas  Paine 
(1892),  Vol.  2,  p.  298. 

57  The  Letters  of  Gamaliel  Bradford,  ed.  V.  W.  Brooks  (Boston,  1934),  p.  262. 


LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  CONTROVERSY      155 

country,  and  their  theological  and  philosophic  discussions,  as  well  as  in 
their  political  tracts.  But  the  period  of  the  campaign  for  independence 
was  also  one  of  preparation.  It  gave  incentives  for  new  kinds  of  writing 
on  new  themes,  and  a  few  authors  responded  in  work  which  was  not 
only  valuable  in  itself  but  pointed  the  way  toward  some  of  the  later 
artistic  successes  of  the  new  nation. 


Chapter  10 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON 

During  the  Revolution  books  became  weapons.  To  do  their  work  thev 
must  reach  a  wider  audience  than  most  earlier  American  writings  had. 
They  must  be  directed  not  only  to  the  elite  and  the  well  educated,  but 
to  farmers,  laborers,  woodsmen,  and  sailors.  For  them  writing  must  be 
simple  and  it  must  be  lively.  Literature,  to  serve  the  needs  of  the  time, 
had  to  be  democratized. 

This  resulted  in  more,  and  in  some  ways  better,  writing.  Authors  were 
forced  to  experiment  with  language  and  with  various  literary  types.  The 
newspapers  and  magazines  printed  and  exchanged  with  each  other  bits 
of  satire,  humor,  parody,  homely  anecdote,  and  colloquially  phrased 
argument,  directed  to  the  taste  of  the  man  in  the  street.  Ballads  were 
written  and  sung  to  fire  the  spirits  of  those  who  could  not  read  but  could 
memorize  a  few  verses.  Loyalists  and  patriots  tried  to  outdo  each  other  in 
popular  propaganda.  American  readers  found  that  the  printed  word  could 
be  a  source  of  pleasure.  The  Revolution  therefore  developed  a  larger 
native  reading  public  and  taught  native  writers  that  they  could  succeed 
with  other  genres,  styles,  and  materials  than  most  of  their  colonial  prede- 
cessors had  used.  The  coming  of  independence  also  stimulated  a  desire 
for  artistic  achievement  worthy  of  America's  new  status.  Poets,  dramatists, 
and  others  went  energetically  to  work  in  order  to  demonstrate  that  the 
summit  of  Parnassus  was  well  within  the  reach  of  the  "new  man"  in  the 
New  World. 

Francis  Hopkinson  (1737-01)  shows  the  extent  to  which  the  larger 
cities  had  by  the  time  of  the  Revolution  developed  appreciative  audiences 
for  belles  lettrcs  and  the  arts  and  also  the  way  in  which  the  struggle  for 
independence  encouraged  writing  in  other  forms  than  the  serious  political 
essay.  His  graceful  verses  were  equipped  with  "Celias,"  "Delias,"  and 
"Rosalindas,"  and  with  "waving  groves,"  "flow'ry  ways,"  and  the  melody 
of  the  lark.  He  was  the  first  American  poet-composer  and  Jefferson 
praised  one  of  his  songs,  which,  he  said,  made  his  daughter  cry,  "the 

156 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  ,57 

tune  was  so  mournful."  l  He  was  a  facile  imitator  and  echoed  the 
Cavalier  lyrists,  George  Wither,  and  Shakespeare,  as  easily  as  the  English 
poets  of  his  own  century,  but  some  of  his  work  is  charming  in  its  own 
right.  He  produced  pleasant  essays,  experimented  in  science  and  made  a 
few  ingenious  inventions,  played  the  harpsichord  and  organ,  translated 
the  Psalms  into  verse,  painted  creditable  pastels,  wrote  hymns,  and 
designed  the  American  flag.  Such  a  virtuoso  could  exist  only  in  a  sophis- 
ticated community  with  a  taste  for  the  artistic  amenities. 

Hopkinson  was  also  a  popular  member  of  Philadelphia's  most  culti- 
vated society  and  a  good  lawyer  and  a  valuable  public  servant.  He  was 
active  in  politics,  a  staunch  patriot  during  the  Revolution  and  a  Feder- 
alist afterwards.  He  sat  in  the  Continental  Congress,  signed  the  Declaration 
of  Independence,  and  was  an  admiralty  judge  and  later  justice  of  a  United 
States  district  court.  His  legal  decisions,  speeches,  Addisonian  essays,  and 
scientific  papers  reflect  the  serious  side  of  his  character,  but  his  best  writing 
was  in  parody,  burlesque,  satire,  or  allegory,  in  which  he  could  indulge 
his  talent  for  the  comic.  His  description  of  the  annual  agony  of  house- 
cleaning  endured  by  colonial  households,  for  example,  is  an  entertaining 
exercise  in  a  genre  dear  to  many  later  American  humorists.2 

He  saw  that  he  could  serve  the  patriotic  cause  by  writing  for  those 
who  would  not  read  solemn  political  tracts  but  liked  lighter  pieces.  His 
ballad,  The  Battle  of  the  Kegs,  was  very  popular  in  its  day  and  is  still 
amusing.  The  Americans  had  floated  kegs,  made  into  mines,  down  the 
river  against  the  British  ships  at  Philadelphia  and  the  terrified  champions 
of  the  king  opened  fire.  Hopkinson's  picture  of  "the  conq'ring  British 
troops"  3  popping  away  at  the  kegs  is  far  more  skillful  than  his  serious 
verses— for  example,  his  solemn  ode  on  Pennsylvania's  ratification  of  the 
Constitution,  which  begins  with  a  glib  borrowing  from  Shakespeare: 

Oh!  for  a  muse  of  fire!  To  mount  the  skies, 
And  to  a  listening  world  proclaim  . .  .4 

The  rest  of  the  poem  proves  that  the  poetic  fire  was  denied. 

Hopkinson's  A  Pretty  Story  (Philadelphia,  1774),  a  prose  allegory  on 
the  events  leading  up  to  the  establishment  of  the  Continental  Congress, 
had  three  editions  before  1775;  The  New  Roof,  an  allegorical  defense  of 
the  Constitution,  and  his  Modem  Learning  Exemplified  by  a  Specimen 
of  a  Collegiate  Examination,  a  burlesque  on  conventional  methods  in 
education,   delighted  his  contemporaries.5   There  is  still   wisdom  to   be 

1  Quoted  in  George  E.  Hastings,  Life  and  Works  of  Francis  Hopkinson  (1926), 
p.  444. 

2  Miscellaneous  Essays  and  Occasional  Writings  of  Francis  Hopkinson  (1792),  Vol. 
2,  pp.  146-160. 

3  "The  Ballad  of  the  Kegs,"  stanza  19,  in  Hastings,  Life,  p.  294. 

4  Cf .  the  first  lines  of  Henry   V. 

5  Miscellaneous  Essays,  Vol.  2,  pp.  282-312;  Vol.  1,  pp.  34°-358- 


158  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

found  in  them,  and  the  sound  currency  of  humor.  Hopkinson  is  important 
in  literary  history  both  for  the  intrinsic  value  of  his  best  work  and  for 
its  symptomatic  indication  of  the  literary  needs  and  popular  taste  of  his 
day. 

John  Trumbull  (i 750-1 831)  of  Connecticut  was  a  more  serious  scholar 
than  Hopkinson  and  a  more  earnest  moralist.  He  aspired  to  excel  in  odes, 
elegies,  and  lyrics,  of  the  neoclassic  variety,  with  preromantic  overtones, 
and  imagined  that  his  genius  was  handicapped  by  the  times,  which  forced 
him  to  take  up  satire.  Actually  one  of  the  literary  benefits  of  the  Revolu- 
tion wTas  its  forcing  him  to  give  up  his  tedious  and  trite  efforts  in  solemn 
verse  and  turn  to  comic  writing. 

He  became  a  lawyer  like  Hopkinson  but  in  his  early  years  his  major 
interests  were  scholarship  and  literature.  He  passed  his  examination  for 
admission  to  Yale  when  he  was  seven,  but  did  not  actually  enter  college 
until  six  years  later.  In  the  interval  he  read  widely  and  wrote  a  great  deal. 
He  took  his  A.B.  and  A.M.  from  Yale  and  later  tutored  there,  and  was 
admitted  to  the  Connecticut  bar  in  1773.  He  worked  for  a  time  in  John 
Adams'  law  office  and  became  a  successful  lawyer  and  Federalist  poli- 
tician in  Hartford,  Treasurer  of  Yale,  and  judge  of  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Errors  in  his  native  state.  He  was  a  leader  among  the  "Hartford 
Wits,"  centered  about  the  Friendly  Club  in  that  town.  Timothy  Dwight 
and  the  others  of  the  group  produced  no  masterpieces  but  their  patriotic 
enthusiasm  for  literature  was  a  factor  in  stimulating  literary  activity  in 
the  early  days  of  the  nation.  After  1782  Trumbull  wrote  little  because 
he  was  handicapped  by  bad  health  and  professional  duties,  but  he  con- 
tinued to  influence  his  Hartford  associates  and  others  both  by  what  he  had 
done  and  by  his  continued  zeal  for  a  full-fledged  native  literature. 

He  wrote  nothing  important  about  the  political  issue  until  1774  when, 
outraged  bv  the  Boston  Port  Bill,  he  published  anonymously  An  Elegy 
on  the  Times,  but  this  does  not  mean  that  he  had  been  indifferent  to  the 
controversy.  He  was  too  active-minded  to  ignore  it,  but  his  chief  pre- 
occupation was  with  education  and  the  state  of  American  letters.  This 
interest  was  itself  largely  the  product  of  the  Revolutionary  excitement. 
If  the  colonists  had  rights  of  their  own  and  were  able  to  defy  Britain  in 
defense  of  them,  they  should  also  stand  on  their  own  feet  in  the  arts. 

Trumbull  was  determined  to  teach  them  how.  In  1769  he  declared  the 
need  of  "cultivating  the  fine  arts  in  this  land."  6  In  the  next  year  he 
delivered  an  oration,  printed  as  An  Essay  on  the  Use  and  Advantages  of 
the  Fine  Arts...  (New  Haven,  1770),  in  which  he  bewailed  American 
neglect  of  the  Muses  and  pointed  out  that  they  had  been  well  treated 
in  the  greatest  nations.  To  this  he  added  in  good  patriotic  fashion  an 
assertion  that  English  writers  are  pedantic,  imitative,  and  over  conven- 

8  First  essay  in  the  series  "The  Meddler,"  Boston  Chronicle,  Sept.  4-7,  1769.  See 
Alexander  Cowie,  John  Trumbull  (1936),  p.  55. 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  159 

tional  and  "fetter  the  fancy  with  the  rules  of  method,  and  damp  all  the 
ardour  of  aspiring  invention."  But  America  had  bright  prospects  because 
education  and  the  love  of  liberty  were  widespread.  The  quest  for  freedom 
"rectified  .  . .  manners,"  fired  men  with  "views  of  fame"  and  America 
had  already  moved  toward  her  destiny  of  "ruling  ...  in  arts"  by  her 
achievements  in  political  writing,  humorous  essays  and  poetry.7  Trum- 
bull's enthusiasm  betrayed  him  into  turgid  verse  which  reveals  both  the 
insecurity  of  his  taste  and  the  vigor  of  his  patriotic  optimism.  American 
authors  were  sure  to  eclipse  "the  fainting  gleam  of  Europe's  setting  ray." 

Here  shall  some  Shakespeare  charm  the  rising  age, 
And  hold  in  magic  chains  the  listening  stage; 
A  second  Watts  shall  string  the  heavenly  lyre  . .  .8 

The  unhappy  coupling  of  Shakespeare  and  Watts  is  followed  by  the 
alarming  prophecy  that  the  female  poets  of  America,  sure  to  win  glory 
also,  would  resemble  Elizabeth  Rowe— one  of  the  English  poetesses  least 
worthy  of  emulation. 

Trumbull's  patriotic  ardor  no  doubt  pleased  his  audience  in  spite  of  his 
critical  blindnesses  and  the  dullness  of  his  verse,  which  is  often  soporific, 
as  in  his  appropriately  titled  Ode  to  Sleep  (1773).  And,  when  he  was 
content  with  comic  satire  or  burlesque,  he  wrote  better  than  his  Ameri- 
can contemporaries  and  as  well  as  any  but  the  best  of  his  English  rivals. 
He  learned  to  master  many  of  Samuel  Butler's  Hudibrastic  tricks;  Swift 
and  Charles  Churchill  also  taught  him  much.  His  favorite  measure  was 
the  octosyllabic  couplet  or  quatrain,  and  he  used  it  skillfully,  avoiding 
monotony  and  letting  it  slide  into  doggerel  only  when  that  suited  his 
humorous  purpose. 

He  recognized  that  the  comic  could  be  artistically  respectable,  and 
said  the  early  colonists  had  "Sense  and  Genius"  and  their  successors  had 
learned  "Fancy  and  Invention"  but  had  still  not  mastered  the  art  of 
"Humour  and  Satire"  9  His  own  mastery  he  proved  first  in  The  Progress 
of  Didness,10  a  satire  on  education  in  America,  and  especially  at  Yale. 
Dullards,  without  genius  or  study,  could  get  degrees  and  pulpits;  dullness 
was  no  bar  to  graduation;  classical  linguistics,  the  "abstruser  parts  of 
mathematics,"  and  metaphysics,  were  of  little  use.  More  time  should  be 
given  to  oratory,  English  grammar,  and  "the  elegancies  of  style  and  com- 
position." Trumbull  argues  his  case  by  telling  the  stories  of  Tom  Brain- 
less, who  went  through  college  and  became  a  minister  with  no  qualifica- 
tions but  "impudence  . . .  yoked  to   dulness;"  xl   of  Dick   Hairbrain,   an 

7  An  Essay  on  the  Use  and  Advantages ... ,  pp.  1 1-12. 

8  "Prospect  of  the  Future  Glory  of  America''  in  Poetical  Works  of  John  Trinnbidl 
(1820),  Vol.  2,  pp.  159-160.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

9  "The  Correspondent,"  Connecticut  Journal,  July  2,  1773  (Cowie,  Trumbull,  p.  87). 

10  The  first  part  was  printed  in  New  Haven,  1772;  the  second  and  the  third, 
New  Haven,  1773. 

11  Poetical  Works,  Vol.  2,  pp.  10,  32. 


i6o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

idle  student  who  became  a  fop  and  rake;  and  of  Harriet  Simper,  who  was 
a  coquette  and  gossip  and  fancied  herself  a  Pamela.  She  longed  for 
Grandison,  Lovelace,  or  even  Hairbrain,  but  eventually  had  to  marry 
Brainless. 

There  were  wounded  feelings  at  Yale,  but  elsewhere  the  Progress  was 
praised.  One  misguided  Bostonian  declared  that  Trumbull's  prose  equalled 
Swift's  and  his  poetry,  Butler's.12  Much  of  the  satire  is  dull  now  but  some 
passages  keep  their  edge.  Trumbull  sneers  at  the  teachers  of  ancient 
languages: 

And   for   our   linguists,    fairly   try   them, 
A  tutor'd  parrot  might  defy  them. 

Brainless  learns  "Sermons  to  study,  and  to  steal"  and  to 

shun,  with  anxious  care,  the  while, 
The  infection  of  a  modern  style. 

But  "He's  orthodox,  and  that's  enough."  Hairbrain  reads 

Soft,  simp'ring  tales  of  amorous  pain, 
With  double  meanings,  neat  and  handy 
From  Rochester  and  Tristram  Shandy. 

He  is  given  to  Gallic  manners  and  as  a  sophomoric  radical  will  take 

arguments,  unvex'd  by  doubt, 
On  Voltaire's  trust,  or  go  without.13 

Trumbull's  other  major  work  was  also  a  satire.  In  Boston  in  1775 
patriotic  friends  urged  him  to  write  "to  inspire  confidence  in  the  Ameri- 
can cause"  and  "to  crush  the  efforts  of  the  Tory  partv."  He  produced 
"Canto  First"  of  M'Fingal:  A  Modern  Epic  Poem  (Philadelphia,  1775), 
a  "parody  of  the  serious  Epic"  following  the  method  of  "high  burlesque" 
rather  than  "the  low,  (which  is  the  style  of  Hudibras)."  14  It  was  very 
popular  and  Trumbull  revised  the  first  part,  divided  it  into  two  cantos, 
composed  two  more,  and  published  the  whole  in  Hartford  in  1782. 

Trumbull's  conservatism  was  an  advantage  to  his  satire.  He  was  tren- 
chant in  his  ridicule  of  the  Tories,  but  kept  enough  temperate  detachment 
to  make  his  work  critical  of  general  human  frailties  as  well  as  of  the 
errors  of  a  political  group.  He  said  he  wanted  "with  as  much  impartiality 
as  possible"  to  "satirize  the  follies  and  extravagancies  of"  his  "country- 
men, as  well  as  of  their  enemies,"  ir>  and  he  took  to  task  not  only  the 
loyalists  but  the  patriotic  advocates  of  mob-rule,  which  he  hated.  If  the 
poem  has  any  claim  to  be  called  "high"  satire  it  is  because  it  reflects  the 

12Cowie,  Trumbull,  p.  115. 

1:1  Poetical  Works,  Vol.  2,  pp.  18,  27,  29,  44,  45. 
14  Poetical  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  17;  Vol.  2,  p.  232. 
in  Poetical  Work's,  Vol.  2,  pp.  231-232. 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  161 

attitude  of  a  rational  man,  never  quite  conquered  by  the  political  passions 
of  the  moment. 

Like  the  Progress,  AVFingal  has  many  faults— too  many  imitative  bits, 
too  much  use  of  character  types  common  in  English  verse,  and  too  much 
intrusive  moralizing.  But  its  style  and  its  wit  and  humor  are  often  indi- 
vidual. The  Marquis  de  Chastellux  was  wrong  in  preferring  AVFingal  to 
Hudibras,  but  the  American  poem  was  certainly  one  of  the  best  of  its 
kind  in  English  and  better  than  other  American  work  of  its  sort  before 
The  Bigloiv  Papers. 

While  he  was  a  tutor  at  Yale  Trumbull  worked  with  Timothy  Dwight 
and  Joseph  Howe  to  teach  his  pupils  public  speaking  and  literary  com- 
position and  to  encourage  their  interest  in  the  "rapturous  transporting 
Displays  of  the  Stage"  The  Linonian  Society  gave  comedies  by  Steele 
and  Farquhar  and  by  1777  there  were  complaints  that  the  students  had 
neglected  solid  learning  to  "run  into  Plays . . .  chiefly  of  the  comic  kind 
&  turn'd  College  . .  .  into  Drury  Lane."  16 

The  American  theater  was  still  in  its  infancy.  It  had  been  handicapped 
by  Quaker  asceticism  and  the  Puritan  feeling  that  the  playhouse  might 
be  a  center  of  idleness  and  dissipation.  Much  of  the  English  drama  of  the 
Restoration  period  was  not  edifying,  and  Jeremy  Collier's  attack  on  the 
comedies  must  have  impressed  the  pious  in  the  colonies.  Employers  in 
New  York  as  well  as  in  Boston  or  Philadelphia  agreed  that  their  appren- 
tices and  laborers  could  use  their  time  better  than  in  seeing  plays.  There 
were  also  economic  handicaps  for  the  theater.  It  could  flourish  commer- 
cially only  in  compact  communities  which  could  supply  adequate 
audiences.  Most  of  the  colonists  lived  in  the  country,  not  in  the  towns. 
In  the  south  some  rich  and  pleasure-loving  planters  would  go  miles  to 
see  a  play,  but  farther  north  travel  was  more  arduous  in  winter  and  the 
stage  could  be  profitable  only  in  the  cities. 

Progress  was  made,  however,  and  by  1765  many  city-dwellers  and 
young  men  at  college  had  had  chances  to  see  English  plays,  given  by  ama- 
teurs or  by  the  commercial  companies  which  visited  such  places  as  Phila- 
delphia, Charleston,  New  York,  Annapolis,  Williamsburg,  and  Boston.  In 
the  repertoire  were  pieces  by  Addison,  Gay,  Farquhar,  Otway,  Congreve, 
Dryden,  Lee,  Vanbrugh,  and  a  considerable  number  by  Shakespeare. 
These  were  excellent  teachers  of  playwriting  but  very  few  Americans 
tried  their  hands  at  it.  The  American  author  could  hardly  hope  to  com- 
pete with  the  English  dramatists,  and,  if  he  wanted  to  communicate  his 
ideas,  a  play  was  the  least  useful  medium.  Many  of  his  countrymen  who 
read  books,  or  at  least  magazines,  newspapers,  or  almanacs,  would  not  or 
could  not  go  to  the  theater.  No  play  by  an  American  was  professionally 
produced  in  the  colonies  until  1766  when  Thomas  Godfrey's  The  Prince 
of  Parthia  appeared. 

16  Cowie,  Trumbull,  p.  75. 


1 62  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Thereafter  the  situation  gradually  changed.  The  colonists'  growing 
distrust  of  Britain  and  their  increasingly  self-assertive  spirit  supplied  new 
motives  and  opportunities  for  native  playwrights.  Dramas  could  be  useful 
propaganda,  and  men  like  Trumbull  felt  that  if  America  was  worthy  to 
challenge  England  it  must  not  be  subservient  in  any  of  the  arts.  With  the 
war  the  incentives  for  American  dramatists  became  more  compelling. 
Patriotic  audiences  should  not  see  plays  written  by  their  enemies;  it  was 
dangerous  to  have  the  people  of  the  cities  occupied  by  the  British  enter- 
tained by  stage  performances  which  ridiculed  the  patriots.  General 
Burgoyne  himself  was  a  dramatist,  and  other  members  of  British  garrisons 
amused  themselves  by  writing  and  acting  Tory  pieces.  American  anti- 
dotes were  needed. 

There  were  many  obstacles  in  the  way.  Old  prejudices  against  the  stage 
persisted,  and  there  were  serious  economic  problems.  Congress  in  1774  had 
agreed  to  "discountenance  and  discourage"  all  "extravagance  and  dissipa- 
tion," including  "exhibitions  of  shews"  and  "plays,"  17  and  war  conditions 
made  production  even  harder  than  before.  But  the  seed  had  been  sown  and 
American  dramatists  went  on  writing. 

The  Prince  of  Part  hi  a  by  Thomas  Godfrey  (1736-63)  had  been  finished 
by  1759,  although  it  was  not  staged  until  1766.  It  was  not  therefore  a 
product  of  the  Revolutionary  excitement.  Its  author's  inspiration  probably 
came  principally  from  his  teacher,  Provost  William  Smith,  and  from  the 
literary  interests  of  his  Philadelphia  friends,  among  whom  were  Hopkinson 
and  Benjamin  West,  the  painter,  Smith's  enthusiasm  for  letters  and  the 
liberalism  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  were  shown  by  the  students' 
exercises  in  oratory  and  their  acting  of  "Parts  of . .  .  dramatic  Pieces."  18 
In  the  winter  of  1756-57  they  presented  The  Masque  of  Alfred  the  Great, 
altered  from  an  English  original.  With  the  way  thus  prepared,  Godfrey 
decided  to  write  a  poetic  tragedy.  It  was  not  American  in  any  full  sense, 
since  the  scene  was  Parthia,  there  were  no  specific  local  references  to 
the  colonies,  and  some  passages  were  closely  imitative  of  English  models, 
notably  Shakespeare.  But  it  was  the  work  of  an  American  playwright 
and  by  no  means  a  negligible  achievement.  The  blank  verse  is  fluent,  the 
plot  and  characterization  competently  handled,  and  the  emotional  core 
of  the  tragedy  is  sound.  It  proved  that  a  colonist  could  rival  the  English 
on  the  stage,  and  there  is  in  one  passage  at  least  a  hint  of  an  American 
attitude: 

Jove's  thunder  strikes  the  lofty  palaces, 
While  the  low  cottage,  in  humility, 
Securely  stands  . . . 

17  Journals  of  the  Continental  Congress,  1774-1789,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford 
(Washington,  1904-37),  Vol.  1,  p.  78. 

18  Quoted  in  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Beginning 
to  the  Civil  War   (2nd.  edition,   1943),  p.   18. 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  163 

What  King  can  boast,  to  morrow  as  to  day, 
Thus,  happy  will  I  reign?  The  rising  sun 
May  view  him  seated  on  a  splendid  throne, 
And,  setting,  see  him  shake  the  servile  chain.19 

This  idea,  trite  and  innocent  in  1759,  fitted  American  notions  of 
democracy  and  became  a  commonplace  of  propaganda  when  the  contest 
against  Britain  be^an. 

No  other  American  play  was  commercially  produced  in  the  colonies 
before  the  Revolution,  although  several  were  written  and  published.  No 
one  of  them  was  as  good  as  The  Prince  of  Farthia,  but  they  did  treat 
native  themes.  Ponteach  or  the  Savages  of  America  (London,  1766)  by 
Major  Robert  Rogers  (1731-95)  had  some  good  moments  and  at  least 
served  to  remind  writers  of  the  possibilities  for  drama  offered  by  the 
Indians.  As  the  war  came  nearer,  however,  no  subject  appealed  as  much 
as  politics  and  no  method  was  as  much  in  vogue  as  satire. 

James  Otis'  sister,  Mercy  Warren  (1728-18 14),  became  an  unofficial 
dramatic  laureate  of  the  Revolution  in  New  England.  John  Adams  en- 
couraged her  to  use  her  "poetical  pen,"  which  he  highly  admired,  to 
support  the  patriotic  cause,  and  before  March,  1772,  she  wrote  The 
Adulateur.  It  professed  to  be  a  tragedy  of  Servia  but  was  in  fact  a  vigorous 
satirical  critique  of  the  Tories,  especially  Thomas  Hutchinson  who 
appears  as  "Rapatio."  There  are  a  few  imaginative  lines— for  example, 
Rapatio's  "I  dare  not  meet  my  naked  heart  alone"  20— and  most  of  the 
verse  is  workmanlike,  but  the  play  as  a  whole  is  so  closely  tied  to  con- 
temporaneous events  and  characters  and  so  narrowly  devoted  to  argu- 
mentation on  the  disputes  of  the  moment  that  it  has  little  life  today. 
The  Group  (Boston,  1775),  Mrs.  Warren's  second  dramatic  attempt,  is 
also  satirical  and  its  characters  are  again  drawn  from  the  political  person- 
ages of  the  period.  There  is  a  possibility  that  this  play  was  acted,  and 
in  any  case  it  must  have  been  effective  patriot  propaganda. 

The  Blockheads  or  the  Affrighted  Officers  (Boston,  1776),  a  prose 
farce  which  has  been  erroneously  ascribed  to  Mrs.  Warren,21  was  a  retort 
to  General  Burgoyne's  The  Blockade,  which  had  been  performed  in 
Boston  during  the  British  occupation.  The  Blockheads  is  vigorous  but 
coarse,  a  literary  brickbat  rather  than  a  work  of  art.  The  Fall  of  British 
Tyranny  (Philadelphia,  1776)  by  a  John  or  Joseph  Leacock  (fl.  1776) 
was  much  better.  It  begins  with  the  Parliamentary  debates  about  the 
colonies  and  the  scene  then  shifts  to  Boston,  to  Virginia,  to  Ethan  Allen's 

19  The  Prince  of  Farthia,  Act  I,  Scene  5,  in  Thomas  Godfrey,  juvenile  Poems  on 
Various  Subjects  (Philadelphia,  1765),  p.  121. 

20  MS  in  Harvard  College  Library,  p.  2.  The  printed  version  of  The  Adulateur 
(Boston,  1773),  was  according  to  the  MS  a  plagiarized  and  expanded  version  by  "an 
unknown  hand." 

21  Quinn,  American  Drama,  p.  46. 


i64  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

prison  in  Vermont,  and  finally  to  Cambridge,  where  George  Washington 
himself  appears.  The  characters  are  fairly  well  individualized  and  the 
action  is  lively.  The  play  recaptures  a  little  of  the  quality  of  the  English 
chronicle  plays  and  its  scope  and  seriousness  lift  it  above  the  level  of  the 
dramatic  ephemera  of  its  time. 

Still  worth  reading  also  are  two  dramas  by  Hugh  Henry  Brackenridge 
(1748-18 1 6),  a  young  Princeton  graduate  and  a  schoolteacher,  wThose 
pupils  in  Maryland  probably  acted  his  The  Battle  of  Bunkers  Hill  (Phila- 
delphia, 1776),  and  The  Death  of  General  Montgomery  (Norwich,  1777). 
Brackenridge  later  became  an  important  figure  in  the  history  of  the 
American  novel;  his  plays  show  something  of  the  novelist's  talent  in  their 
concentration  on  character  and  the  human  values  involved  in  the  Revolu- 
tionary crisis. 

The  Tories  wrote  plays  to  turn  the  satirical  tables  against  the  rebels. 
Among  them  were  Jonathan  SewalPs  The  Americans  Roused  in  a  Cure 
for  the  Spleen...  (1775),  and  the  anonymous  The  Battle  of  Brooklyn 
(1776).  The  literary  level  of  the  Tories'  drama  was  about  that  of  the 
patriots1,  and  its  importance  lay  in  its  stimulation  of  further  American 
dramatic  efforts  rather  than  in  intrinsic  merit. 

Although  the  Revolution  encouraged  local  dramatists  because  it  made 
any  form  of  propaganda  welcome,  it  probably  was  an  obstacle  to  their 
artistic  progress.  It  forced  them  to  be  satirists  or  preachers  and  limited  the 
range  of  acceptable  themes.  The  passions  of  the  moment  made  many  of 
the  characters  mere  stereotypes.  Tories  were  villains  and  patriots  saints, 
or  vice  versa.  The  strong  black  and  whites  left  no  room  for  shading; 
subtleties  were  out  of  place  in  propaganda.  Moreover,  the  natural 
tendency  of  men  brought  up  on  English  dramas  was  to  imitate  their 
methods,  and  few  American  plays  of  the  period  show  any  technical 
originality.  There  are,  however,  a  few  brilliant  passages  and  effective 
scenes.  Best  of  all,  there  are  some  attempts  to  rise  above  the  squabbles  of 
the  moment  by  presenting  the  fundamental  moral  implications  of  the 
debate  and  relating  it  to  broader  issues. 

Colonel  Robert  Munford  (c.  1730-84)  deserves  to  be  remembered  in 
this  connection.  The  Candidates,  written  before  the  war  to  satirize  the 
methods  of  local  elections,  has  little  value,  but  The  Patriots  (Philadelphia, 
1776)  is  one  of  the  best  American  plays  dealing  with  the  Revolution. 
Munford,  although  he  fought  for  the  Americans,  was  able  to  detach  him- 
self from  the  hatreds  of  war  and  to  portray  with  surprising  even-handed- 
ness  the  weaknesses  of  both  sides.  The  plot  is  well  managed,  the  characters 
are  reasonably  lifelike,  and  the  play  expresses  convincingly  the  attitude 
of  those  colonists  who  detested  "the  opprobrious  epithet  of  tory,  as  much 
as . . .  the  inflammatory  distinction  of  whig."22  Rational  men  like  John 

22  Robert  Alunford,  The  Patriots,  Act  4,  Scene  2,  ed.  Courtlandt  Canby,  Win.  and 
Mary  Quart.,  Vol.  6,  no.  3  (July,  1949),  p.  484. 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  165 

Dickinson  and  presumably  Munford  himself  were  little  listened  to  while 
the  bullets  flew.  It  is  well  that  Trumbull's  satire  reminded  his  countrymen 
that  even  the  patriots  had  faults,  and  that  Munford  brought  into  the 
chorus  of  partisan  and  abusive  drama  a  more  temperate  and  more  humane 
note. 

The  extent  to  which  poets  were  forced  into  satire  by  the  exigencies  of 
the  Revolution  is  illustrated  not  only  by  Trumbull,  who  benefited  by  the 
compulsion,  but  by  Philip  Freneau  (1752-1832),  who  did  not.  Freneau 
was  without  doubt  the  best  American  poet  after  Taylor  and  before 
Bryant,  but  he  was  certainly  handicapped  by  the  character  of  his  times. 
He  was  most  successful  in  a  romantic  and  lyric  vein,  but  a  large  part  of 
his  energy  went  into  political  argument.  His  satires  were  patriotic  assets 
during  the  war,  but  his  literary  reputation  suffered  because  his  later  anti- 
Federalism,  his  attacks  on  Washington,  and  his  supposedly  radical  views, 
were  expressed  with  equal  violence.  He  was  celebrated  as  "that  rascal 
Freneau"  and  his  caustic  editorials  and  other  prose  writings  were  better 
remembered  than  his  poetic  achievements. 

Born  in  New  York  of  French-Huguenot  ancestry,  he  was  brought  up 
on  the  family  estate  of  Mount  Pleasant  in  New  Jersey  and  in  1768  entered 
Princeton  as  a  sophomore.  Among  his  classmates  and  friends  were  James 
Madison  and  Hugh  Brackenridge.  He  collaborated  with  the  latter  in  a 
novel,  Father  Bombo's  Vilgrimage  and  a  poem,  "The  Rising  Glory  of 
America,"  which  was  presented  by  Brackenridge  at  the  college  com- 
mencement in  1 77 1.  Freneau  had  by  then  written  other  poems,  the  best 
of  which  was  "The  Power  of  Fancy."  He  was  ardently  patriotic,  helped 
to  found  the  American  Whig  Society  at  Princeton,  and  wrote  satirical 
attacks  on  its  rival,  the  Cliosophic  Society.  His  passion  for  America  led 
him  to  write  in  1775: 

BLESS'D  be  our  western  world— its  scenes  conspire 
To  raise  a  poet's  fancy  and  his  fire. 

Others  might  study  theology  or  law,  but  he  was  determined  to  woo  the 
"muses  of  the  west"  in  "green  bowers  and  soft  seats  of  rest"  and  in  "safe 
retirement  from  all  human  kind."  23  But  the  times  were  not  propitious 
and  in  spite  of  his  romantic  dreams  he  had  to  recognize  that  America  was 
a  bad  place  for  poets.  His  political  verses  were  popular  but  he  was  not 
content  and  sought  a  romantic  Eden  in  the  island  of  Santa  Cruz.  There 
he  wrote  some  of  his  best  poems,  notably  his  powerful  and  striking  "The 
House  of  Night,"  a  highly  imaginative  excursion  on  the  theme:  "The  last 
enemy  that  shall  be  destroyed  is  Death."  24  In  1778  he  came  home  and 
soon  began  writing  for  the  United  States  Magazine,  published  by  Brack- 
enridge. It  was  a  better  literary  periodical  than  any  of  its  colonial  prede- 

23  "MacSwiggen,"  in  The  Poems  of  Philip  Freneau  (Philadelphia,  1786),  p.  96. 

24  I  Corinthians,  xv.26. 


1 66  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

cessors,  but  it  could  not  survive  the  rigors  of  wartime.  In  its  twelfth  and 
last  issue  Freneau  wrote  scornfully  that  many  Americans 

. . .  inhabit  the  region  of  stupidity,  and  cannot  bear  to  have  the  tranquillity  of 
their  repose  disturbed  by  the  villanous  jargon  of  a  book.  Reading  is  to  them   | 
the  worst  of  all  torments,  and  I  remember  very  well  that  at  the  commencement 
of  the  work,  it  was  their  language,  Art  thou  come  to  torment  us  before  the 
time?  We  will  now  say  to  them,  Sleep  on  and  take  your  rest.25 

The  sea  was  always  a  refuge  for  Freneau.  He  made  a  voyage  to  the 
Azores  and  set  out  for  Santa  Cruz  again,  but  his  vessel  was  taken  by  the 
British.  His  experience  in  a  prison  ship  produced  one  of  his  bitterest 
poems  and  stimulated  him  to  further  attacks  on  the  English  "hell- 
hounds." 26  For  three  years  he  edited  the  Freeman's  Journal  in  Phila- 
delphia, writing  patriotic  pieces  and  also  denunciations  of  useless  damage 
to  forests,  cruelty  to  animals,  and  slavery.  He  advocated  women's  rights 
and  in  other  ways  annoyed  conservatives,  who  sharply  criticized  the 
Journal.  Freneau  was  too  proud  to  fight  back  and  dropped  his  editorship. 

He  was  at  sea  for  most  of  the  next  six  years.  A  volume  of  his  poems, 
published  in  1786,  did  well  and  was  followed  by  another  in  1788.  In  1790 
he  came  back  to  New  York,  an  experienced  captain.  Madison  and  Jeffer- 
son were  interested  in  him  and  in  1791  he  was  made  clerk  for  foreign 
languages  in  the  State  Department  and  began  to  edit  the  National  Gazette 
in  Philadelphia.  Jefferson  had  long  hoped  for  a  paper  which  would  com- 
bat the  "pure  Toryism"  of  the  American  advocates  of  "monarchy,  aris- 
tocracy, &  the  exclusion  of . . .  the  people,"  and  was  sure  Freneau  could 
produce  one.  The  poet  expressed  his  enthusiasm  for  the  French  Revolu- 
tion and  lashed  the  Federalists,  especially  Adams  and  Hamilton.  The  latter 
accused  him  of  being  paid  by  Jefferson  to  edit  a  partisan  organ.  Jefferson 
and  Freneau  denied  the  charge,  but  Jefferson  declared  later  that  the 
Gazette  "saved  our  constitution  which  was  galloping  fast  into  mon- 
archy." 27 

In  1793  public  opinion  in  the  United  States  swung  sharply  against 
French  republicanism  and  the  Gazette  died.  Freneau  edited  a  New  Jersey 
newspaper  for  a  time  and  got  a  precarious  living  from  other  journalistic 
labors.  In  1795  he  brought  out  a  collected  edition  of  his  poems,  the  first 
produced  under  his  supervision.  It  shows  how  far  "an  age  employ'd  in 
pointing  steel"  2S  had  affected  him,  for  he  omitted  much  of  his  early  non- 
political  writing.  For  the  rest  of  his  life  he  was  more  a  social  and  political 
critic  than  a  poet. 

A  lover  of  natural  beauty,  imaginatively  gifted  and  emotionally  sensi- 
tive, he  was  miscast  as  a  political  combatant.  The  satiric  muse  was,  he 

25  United  States  Magazine,  Dec,  1779,  p.  1. 

20  "The  British  Prison  Ship"   (1780),  canto  2,  in  Poems   (1786),  p.  193. 

27  Jefferson,  Writings,  ed.  P.  L.  Ford,  Vol.  5,  p.  336;  Vol.  1,  p.  231. 

28  "The  Author"  in  Freneau,  Poems  (Monmouth,  1795),  p.  327. 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  167 

thought,  "the  least  engaging  of  them  all,"  but  his  patriotism  and  his 
poverty  drove  him  into  her  service  and  kept  him  from  doing  all  that  he 
otherwise  might  have,  by  example  and  precept,  to  stimulate  American 
belles  lettres.  His  audience  was  not  in  a  mood  to  welcome  the  "plaintive 
elegy"  and  "lyric  ode."  Nonetheless,  in  spite  of  handicaps,  he  accom- 
plished a  great  deal.  He  defended  the  theater  and  tried  his  hand  at  drama, 
made  an  excursion  into  fiction,  produced  some  excellent  essays,  and  wrote 
much  which  must  have  stimulated  American  lovers  of  the  arts.  When 
he  died,  Washington  Irving  had  done  some  of  his  best  work,  Cooper  was 
famous,  Emerson  was  a  rising  star,  Bryant  was  a  proved  poet,  and  Long- 
fellow, Whittier,  and  Poe  had  started  literary  careers.  Freneau's  dream 
of  a  United  States  in  which  "the  fine  arts  in  general"  would  flourish  as 
they  must  in  "every  nation  that  makes  any  pretensions  to  refinement  and 
civilization"  29  was  in  a  fair  way  to  come  true.  He  deserves  a  share  of  the 
credit  for  its  ultimate  fulfillment. 

In  his  political  thinking  he  was  agrarian,  anticapitalistic,  and  egalitarian, 
the  champion  of  the  economically  unsatisfied.  He  was  a  "schoolmaster 
who  drilled  JefTersonian  or  French  Democracy  into  the  minds— willing 
or  unwilling— of  the  American  people."  30  He  was  a  deist,  a  believer  in  a 
God  who  was  content  to  let  the  world  operate  by  natural  law  without 
supernatural  intervention.  Reason,  not  mystic  faith,  was  the  source  of  true 
religion.  Man's  duty  was  to  perfect  himself  and  his  world.  This  involved 
humanitarianism,  tolerance,  and  concern  for  the  weak  and  oppressed. 
Man  was,  Freneau  believed,  naturally  good  and  worthy  of  freedom.  From 
this  stemmed  a  kind  of  primitivism,  like  Rousseau's,  and  a  distrust  of 
governments,  "the  badges  of  lost  innocence." 31  Federalists,  religious 
conservatives,  aristocrats,  and  those  who  set  property  rights  highest  in 
their  scale  of  values,  naturally  loathed  his  doctrines. 

His  prose  was  often  very  good  but  his  most  important  work  was 
poetic.  His  ideas  made  him  a  pioneer  romantic  and  he  clung  to  strict  neo- 
classic  principles  only  in  his  satire.  His  belief  in  the  goodness  of  nature 
led  to  close  observation  and  description  of  it  and  to  a  sensuous  approach 
impossible  for  a  Puritan  or  a  narrow  rationalist.  He  kept  some  of  the 
generalized  descriptive  phrases  and  periphrases  common  in  English  neo- 
classic  verse  of  his  time,  but  his  diction  is  usually  more  specific.  Precise 
nautical  terms,  whippoorwills,  buffaloes,  beavers,  and  lynxes  occur,  and 
there  are  murderous  Indians  as  well  as  romantically  conceived  savage 
philosophers  and  heroes.  His  vocabulary  occupies  a  middle  ground  be- 
tween neoclassicism  and  later  Wordsworthianism.  In  a  poem  on  one  of 

29  Poems  (1795),  p.  327;  "To  Sylvius..."  in  Poems  (1809);  and  A  Collection  of 
Poems  on  American  Affairs...  (1815),  "Advertisement." 

30  S.  E.  Forman,  "The  Political  Activities  of  Philip  Freneau"  in  Johns  Hopkins 
Univ.  Stud,  in  Hist,  and  Pol.  Sci.,  Series  20,  nos.  9-10    (1902),  p.  78. 

31  Thomas  Paine,  Common  Sense,  in  Writings,  ed.  Moncure  D.  Conway  (1894), 
Vol.  1,  p.  69. 


1 68  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

his  favorite  romantic  themes,  the  transience  of  earthly  things,  he  wrote: 

But  when  the  tide  had  ebbed  away, 

The  scene  fantastic  with  it  fled, 
A  bank  of  mud  around  me  lay, 

And  sea-weed  on  the  river's  bed.32 

He  used  a  variety  of  metrical  and  stanzaic  forms,  usually  with  consid- 
erable skill.  He  was  not  a  technical  innovator  but  he  effectively  adapted  to 
his  own  purposes  the  models  he  found  in  his  reading.  He  revised  his  work 
carefully  in  its  successive  editions,  often  with  an  effort  to  enhance  its 
musical  quality.  He  was  frequently  imitative  but  most  of  his  verse  has  the 
stamp  of  his  individual  taste.  He  liked,  for  example,  a  strong  caesura  in 
the  last  line  of  a  stanza  and  used  it  again  and  again  for  climactic  accent. 
For  example: 

And  long  have  look'd— and  still  must  look  in  vain!  33 
She  leaves  her  soldier— famine  and  a  name!  34 

Vain,    foolish    man!    how    vast    thy    pride, 

How  little  can  your  want  supply!— 
'Tis  surely  wrong  to  grasp  so  wide— 
We  act  as  if  we  only  had 

To  triumph— not  to  die!  35 

Two  other  lines  of  the  same  sort  won  the  sincere  tribute  of  plagiarism. 
Thomas  Campbell  borrowed  "The  hunter  and  the  deer,  a  shade!"  and 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  "They  took  the  spear— but  left  the  shield."  36 

Freneau  was  too  angry  a  partisan  to  rise  to  "high"  satire.  He  was  by 
temperament  neither  a  philosopher  nor  a  logician,  and  his  sensitivity 
to  all  kinds  of  impressions  made  his  literary  attacks  too  discursive.  Even 
so,  most  of  his  political  poetry  surpassed  that  of  any  other  American  of 
his  day. 

Certainly  he  did  better  work  than  any  of  his  Tory  rivals.  The  two  most 
successful  of  them  were  Joseph  Stansbury  (i743?-i8oo)  and  Jonathan 
Odell  (1737-18 1 8).  The  former  was  a  Philadelphia  businessman,  English- 
born  and  an  advocate  of  conciliation,  who  wrote  some  stirring  songs  and 
a  series  of  attacks  on  the  patriots.  His  tone  of  good  humor  and  convivi- 
ality reflects  his  temperate  spirit.  His  satire  is  playful,  not  violent.  His 
songs  are  graceful,  and  he  could  be  dignified  when  the  occasion  demanded. 


■!2  "A  Moral  Thought,"  in  Poems  (1786),  p.  221. 

33  "Argonauta"  in  Poems  (1795),  p.  301. 

34  "The  American  Soldier,"  in  Poems  (1795),  p.  379. 
85  "Retirement,"  in  Poeins  (1786),  p.  59. 


5 ,;  Freneau,  "The  Indian  Burying  Ground,"  in  Poems  (1795),  p.  89,  and  Thomas 
Campbell  "O'Connor's  Child,"  stanza  4;  Freneau,  "To  the  Memory  of  the  brave 
Americans..."  in  Poems  (1795),  p.  193,  and  Sir  Walter  Scott,  Marmion,  Intro,  to 
canto  3.  Scott  changes  "They  took"  to  "And  snatch'd." 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  169 

If  circumstances  had  not  driven  him  to  serious  themes  he  might  have 
become  a  minor  master  in  light  verse. 

Odell,  a  sterner  character,  wrote  "acrid  rhyme"  and  "ars'nic  verse,  to 
poison  with  the  pen"  the  "rats"  who  dared  to  rebel  against  the  king.  He 
was  an  Anglican  cleric  in  New  Jersey  and  in  1776  the  patriots  began  to 
hunt  him  down  as  an  enemy  of  freedom.  He  had  to  take  refuse  with 
the  English  in  New  York  and  decided  by  1778  that  "the  legitimate 
moment  for  Satire"  had  come.  His  poems,  rich  in  caricatures  of  indi- 
vidual patriots  and  full  of  the  pent-up  passion  of  a  loyal  Englishman, 
declared  that  his  fellow-colonists  were  "void  of  brains"  and  that  Congress 
was  supported  by  "the  poltroon;  the  vile;  the  weak."  3T 

He  usually  kept  the  discipline  of  English  classical  satire,  but  he  lacked 
the  music,  the  imagination,  and  the  depth  of  insight  of  Pope  or  Dryden. 
Most  of  his  verses  are  tiresome  now,  because  they  give  no  lifelike  impres- 
sion of  characters  or  scenes.  There  is  too  much  villainy  to  be  credible, 
and  no  other  color  to  relieve  the  "brimstone  and  black."  3S  Odell  had  no 
use  for  half-way  measures  and  when  his  native  country  became  an 
independent  nation  he  left  it  forever.  His  sternness  is  reflected  in  the 
energy  which  is  the  best  quality  of  his  verse. 

Freneau's  satirical  and  political  poems  have  energy,  too,  and  much 
more  imaginative  vigor.  He  lacked  Trumbull's  rich  comic  sense,  but  he 
could  be  both  humorous  and  witty  and  surpassed  the  Hartford  poet  in 
his  pictorial  and  emotionally  evocative  language.  His  accounts  of  fighting 
at  sea  have  a  realism  not  equalled  before  Cooper,  and  he  makes  some  of 
the  scenes  in  "The  Prison  Ship"  genuinely  terrifying.  For  example,  the 
food 

look'd   like   carrion   torn   from   hungry   crows, 
Such  vermin  vile  on  every  joint  were  seen, 
So  black,  corrupted,  mortified,  and  lean . .  ,39 

The  lonely  tragedy  of  the  prisoners  is  conveyed  in: 

EACH  day,  at  least  three  carcases  we  bore, 
And  scratch'd  them  graves  along  the  sandy  shore, 
By  feeble  hands  the  shallow  graves  were  made, 
No  stone  memorial  o'er  the  corpses  laid; 
In  barren  sands,  and  far  from  home,  they  lie, 
No  friend  to  shed  a  tear,  when  passing  by; 
O'er  the  mean  tombs  insulting  Britons  tread, 
Spurn  at  the  sand,  and  curse  the  rebel  dead.40 

37  Loyalist  Poetry  of  the  Revolution,  ed.  Winthrop  Sargent  (1857),  pp.  55,  15 1- 
152,  44,  52. 

38  Sargent,  Loyalist  Poetry,  p.  3. 

39  "The  British  Prison  Ship,"  Poems   (1786),  p.  204. 

40  Poems  (1786),  pp.  204-205. 


170  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

"On  the  Fall  of  General  Earl  Cornwallis"  ends  with  a  curse  on 
George  III: 

His  head  torn  off,  his  hands,  his  feet,  and  all, 
Deep  in  the  dust  may  Dagon's  image  fall; 
His  stump  alone  escape  the  vengeful  steel, 
Sav'd  but  to  grace  the  gibbet  or  the  wheel.41 

The  bald  cruelty  spoils  the  satire  by  rousing  sympathy  for  the  victim, 
but,  a  few  lines  earlier,  Cornwallis'  fate  is  differently  pictured: 

On  eagle's  wings  explore  your  downward  flight 
To  the  deep  horrors  of  the  darkest  night, 
Where,  wrapt  in  shade  on  ocean's  utmost  bound, 
No  longer  sun,  nor  moon,  nor  stars  are  found; 
Where  never  light  her  kindling  radiance  shed, 
But  the  dark  comets  rove  with  all  their  dead* 
Doom'd  through  the  tracks  of  endless  space  to  run 
No  more  revolving  to  confound  the  sun.42 

These  lines  are  moving  as  those  on  physical  brutality  are  not,  because 
they  evoke  a  tragic  sense  of  doom  in  the  darkness,  loneliness,  and  despair 
of  a  man  fallen  from  glory  to  oblivion. 

The  contrast  between  the  two  passages  is  the  contrast  between  the  best 
and  worst  of  Freneau.  He  is  best  when  he  walks  with  beloved  "Fancy," 
when  he  is  absorbed  by  an  imaginative  vision  as  he  is  in  describing  the 
death  of  death  in  "The  House  of  Night,"  or  when  his  sensuous  delight 
in  natural  beauty  and  his  musical  gift  are  to  the  fore,  as  they  are  in  "The 
Beauties  of  Santa  Cruz,"  "To  a  "Caty-Did"  or  "On  a  Honey  Bee."  He 
would  gladly  have  forgotten  battles  and  partisan  animosities  if  he  could 
have  been  free  to  write  about  the  fleeting  beauties  of  earth,  noble  Indians, 
and  an  idyllic  America.  He  longed  to  concentrate  on  his  glimpses  of  an 
imagined  world  in  which  man's  noblest  qualities  revealed  themselves  in 
an  enduring  aspect.  He  was  unable  to  devote  himself  to  the  vision,  and 
his  poetic  note  is  usually  one  of  pathos  rather  than  tragedy,  tenderness 
rather  than  passion.  Even  so  his  best  lines  opened  broader  vistas  than 
those  of  any  earlier  American  poet.  Taylor,  his  only  rival,  displayed 
his  rare  talents  only  in  religious  verse;  Freneau  went  much  farther  in 
exploring  the  poetic  resources  of  the  new  America. 

No  one  individual  can  illustrate  completely  the  full  achievement  of  the 
colonial  period  in  the  literary  history  of  the  American  people,  but  the 
extent  and  variety  of  Freneau's  work  is  suggestive.  His  love  for  his 
country  and  for  nature,  his  democratic  and  humanitarian  faith,  his  confi- 
dence in  the  essential  nobility  of  the  experiment  begun  by  the  pioneer 

41  Poems  (1786),  p.  228. 

12  Poems  (1786).  The  asterisk  refers  to  a  note  by  Freneau:  "See  Winston's 
Hypothesis." 


THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON  171 

explorers  and  brought  to  a  climax  in  1776,  and  his  optimistic  vision  of 
the  future  glories  reserved  for  the  free  citizens  of  the  New  World,  were 
rooted  in  nearly  two  centuries  of  American  experience. 

His  devotion  to  literature  and  his  gallant  attempt  to  live  by  his  pen, 
his  eagerness  to  center  his  life  about  artistic  values,  and  his  insistence  that 
they  were  indispensable  for  the  life  of  the  new  nation,  were  products  of 
Revolutionary  enthusiasm  and  the  new  spirit  of  independent  nationalism. 
But  his  audience  could  not  have  responded  as  it  did  without  the  efforts 
which  earlier  writers  had  made  in  the  same  direction.  There  would  have 
been  less  enthusiasm  for  a  new  national  literature  if  there  had  not  grown 
up  in  the  years  since  1607  a  feeling  for  America  as  a  land  reserved  for  a 
splendid  destiny— a  feeling  expressed  by  scores  of  American  authors  before 
1776.  They  had  gone  far  toward  teaching  their  countrymen  to  value  the 
work  of  their  own  wrriters  and  to  reject  an  exclusive  diet  of  imported 
books  and  ideas.  Freneau's  artistic  power  was  greater  and  his  poetic  talents 
richer  than  most  of  theirs,  but  he  owed  part  of  his  success  to  them.  He 
combined  material  from  the  colonial  literary  tradition  with  elements  from 
European  literary  culture,  just  as  other  authors  were  to  do  for  generations 
after  him.  His  special  achievement  was  in  proving  more  convincingly 
than  any  American  had  done  before  the  potency  of  the  mixture  for  pur- 
poses of  art. 

American  essayists,  poets,  pamphleteers,  dramatists,  storytellers,  and 
ballad  singers  worked  on  the  day  after  the  Revolution  ended  just  as  they 
did  on  the  day  before.  But  a  new  horizon  had  been  opened.  The  literature 
of  the  new  nation  quickly  showed  how  well  the  colonies  had  done  their 
work.  They  had  staked  out  a  design  and  laid  a  solid  foundation  for  later 
intellectual  and  artistic  achievement  in  the  United  States. 


PART  II 


The  Establishment 
of  National  Literature 


BY 


ARTHUR  H.  QUINN 


Chapter  11 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY 


In  the  period  between  the  close  of  the  Revolutionary  War  and  the  early 
years  of  the  nineteenth  century,  we  see  in  our  literature  as  its  first  pre- 
vailing characteristic  a  distinctly  national  note.  This  was  due  of  course 
to  the  pride  which  all  felt  in  the  new  nation  and  was  manifested  in 
literature  principally  in  a  choice  of  American  subjects  and  a  desire  to 
represent  America  as  the  fruition  of  the  design  of  creation,  as  something 
to  which  the  history  of  the  world  had  been  pointing  for  all  time.  This 
latter  tendency  becomes  somewhat  absurd  at  times,  but  the  first  one  was 
a  healthy  desire  to  write  about  things  of  which  the  authors  knew  at  first 
hand.  In  this  period  we  find  first,  the  literature  that  centers  in  the  forma- 
tion of  the  Constitution  and  reflects  the  struggle  for  its  establishment 
and  the  conflicts  concerning  its  interpretation;  next  we  see  the  growth  of 
poetry,  often,  affected  by  the  political  views  of  the  poets;  third,  the  be- 
ginnings of  fiction,  and  fourth,  the  establishment  of  drama.  The  general 
atmosphere  of  social  and  political  life,  the  sterling  worth  of  the  men  and 
women  who  were  shaping  our  destiny,  shines  out  through  the  ferment 
and  the  froth  of  much  that  was  written  or  printed,  in  the  letters  sent  or 
received  by  the  actors  in  this  national  drama,  which  reveal  what  is  of 
greatest  significance  to  us,  the  creation  and  development  of  American 
ideas.  Much  of  this  correspondence  waited  for  years  to  be  printed,  but 
the  letters  were  often  passed  from  hand  to  hand  and  were  discussed  in 
private  and  public  assemblies.  Naturally  they  depend  upon  the  reputation 
of  the  writer  and  upon  the  subject  treated.  And  the  great  theme  was  the 
new  Constitution,  a  piece  of  political  literature  second  only  in  literary 
form  to  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  and  holding  within  it  the  hope 
of  future  union. 

In  this  shaping  of  public  opinion  upon  the  Constitution  directly,  as 
well  as  the  more  indirect  creation  of  standards  of  conduct,  the  influence 
of  George  Washington  cannot  be  overestimated.  He  presided  at  the 
convention  of   1787  and  that  he  was  consulted  by  the  leaders  on  both 

i75 


i76  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

sides  goes  without  saying.  The  writings  of  George  Washington  from  the 
close  of  the  Revolution  until  his  death  form  an  epitome  of  the  history  of 
the  nation  during  this  formative  period.  He  was  at  all  times  conscious  of 
events  but  his  style  was  unconscious  of  effect.  His  epigrams  are  never 
forced.  They  are  the  natural  expression  of  his  well-balanced  nature.  "I 
think,"  he  writes  to  Benjamin  Harrison  in  1784,  "we  have  opposed  Great 
Britain  and  have  arrived  at  the  present  state  of  peace  and  independency, 
to  very  little  purpose,  if  we  cannot  conquer  our  own  prejudices."  x  He 
was  intensely  aware  that  history  was  in  the  making.  He  wrote  to  Sir 
Edward  Newenham  in  Ireland  in  1788  that  UA  greater  Drama  is  now 
acting  on  this  theatre  than  has  heretofore  been  brought  on  the  American 
Stage,  or  any  other  in  the  World.  We  exhibit  at  present  the  novel  and 
astonishing  spectacle  of  a  whole  People  deliberating  calmly  on  what  form 
of  government  will  be  most  conducive  to  their  happiness."  -  He  was  in 
constant  correspondence  with  friends  in  all  sections  and  his  letters  reveal 
that  he  was  in  great  apprehension  of  what  would  happen  politically  if  the 
Constitution  were  not  adopted,  and  that  he  believed  sinister  forces  were 
at  work  after  its  adoption  to  render  the  Constitution  a  failure,  in  which  he 
wras  not  far  wrong. 

Among  his  many  comments  on  the  new  form  of  government,  a  sentence 
in  a  letter  to  Lafayette  on  April  28,  1788,  is  of  especial  significance  in 
view  of  the  misinterpretation  of  his  refusal  to  accept  a  third  term:  "I  can 
see  no  propriety  in  precluding  ourselves  from  the  services  of  any  man, 
who,  on  some  great  emergency,  shall  be  deemed  universally  most  capable 
of  serving  the  Public."  3  He  had  his  own  views  on  art.  His  suggestion  to 
Jefferson  that  his  statue,  which  Houdon  was  making  for  Virginia,  should 
not  be  clad  in  classical  robes  but  rather  in  modern  dress,  shows  his  sense 
of  the  fitness  of  things.4 

His  public  and  private  utterances  during  his  term  as  President,  1789  to 
1797,  show  his  great  sense  of  the  dignity  of  his  office.  Without  precedents, 
he  made  them,  and  they  have  been  the  models  for  all  presidents.  In  ex- 
pressing his  ideas  in  his  letters  he  showed  the  clarity  and  the  force  wThich 
so  well  reflected  his  thinking.  His  sense  of  the  proper  social  procedure 
in  the  Presidency  was  also  keen.  He  would  return  no  visits  and  would 
strictly  limit  visitors  to  definite  occasions,  in  order  that  he  might  attend 
to  the  duties  of  his  office.5 

Attacked  as  he  was  by  the  anti-Federalist  press,  with  a  violence  hardly 
matched  in  our  history,  he  met  their  onslaughts  usually  in  silence,  but 
his  letters  to  his  friends  reveal  how  deeply  he  was  hurt.  His  letters  to 

1  Writings,  cd.  J.  C.  Fitzpatrick  (1940-44),  Vol.  27,  p.  306.  References  are  to  this 
edition. 

2  Writings,  Vol.  30,  p.  73. 

:i  Writings,  Vol.  29,  p.  479. 

4  Writings,  Letter  of  August  1,  1786,  Vol.  28,  p.  504. 

5  Writings,  Letter  to  David  Stuart,  July  26,  1789,  Vol.  30,  pp.  360-361. 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY  177 

Governor  Henry  Lee,  notably  the  ones  dated  July  21,  1796  ,!  and  August 
26,  1794, 7  show  how  Freneau  and  Bache  had  wounded  him.  His  broad 
outlook  on  slavery  is  revealed  clearly  in  his  correspondence.  He  disliked 
the  institution  and  wished  to  abolish  it,  but  he  recognized  the  difficulties 
of  immediate  emancipation  and  he  could  not  quite  divest  himself  of  the 
conception  of  the  slave  as  ua  species  of  property."  8 

A  o-ood  illustration  of  the  vigor,  of  Washington's  style  is  found  in  his 
letter  of  August  30,  1794,  to  John  Jay,  then  our  representative  in  London, 
makino-  clear  that  if  the  British  keep  the  posts  in  defiance  of  the  Treaty 
of  Paris,  war  will  be  inevitable.9  Another  epistle  to  Jay,  November  1, 
1794,10  with  its  dependence  on  an  "all  wise  Disposer"  reminds  one  in  its 
eloquence  of  Lincoln's  speeches.  This  vigor  is  also  shown  in  his  annual 
Messages  to  Congress.  In  his  sixth  annual  address,  November  19,  1794,  he 
puts  in  one  paragraph  his  policy  in  international  affairs,  concluding: 
"having  thus  acquired  the  right,  to  lose  no  time  in  acquiring  the  ability, 
to  insist  upon  justice  being  done  to  ourselves."  1X  His  eloquence  reaches 
a  high  point  in  his  "Reply  to  the  French  Minister,"  January  1,  1796,  in 
answer  to  the  presentation  of  the  flag  of  France  by  the  Minister,  rep- 
resenting the  Directory.12 

A  phase  of  Washington's  character  not  usually  emphasized,  his  sense 
of  humor,  shines  out  not  infrequently  in  his  correspondence.  He  writes 
to  Gouverneur  Morris  on  June  25,  1794,  that  "the  affairs  of  this  country 
cannot  go  aviiss.  There  are  so  many  watchful  guardians  of  than,  and  such 
infallible  guides,  that  one  is  at  no  loss  for  a  director  at  every  turn."  13 
His  comments  on  the  reason  the  Senate  closes  its  doors  is  apt.  But  per- 
haps this  quality  shows  at  its  best  in  the  delightful  letter  to  his  step- 
daughter, Nellie  Custis,  on  the  proper  conduct  of  a  love  affair  "until  you 
have  secured  your  game."  It  also  reveals  Washington  in  his  sympathy 
with  young  people,  one  of  his  most  attractive  traits. 

His  relations  with  his  Cabinet  show  his  constant  willingness  to  take 
advice,  which  his  sagacity  required  to  be  in  writing.  In  such  crises  as 
the  treachery  of  Edmund  Randolph,  the  Secretary  of  State,  the  dignity 
of  Washington  once  more  stands  out  in  his  letters  to  the  Secretary.14 
The  writings  of  Washington  show  no  loss  of  vigor  as  he  neared  his  end. 
The  troubles  with  France  called  him  back  to  the  command  of  the  Army, 
and  again  his  correspondence  reveals  how  Congress  defeated  his  recom- 
mendation concerning  the  appointment  of  officers  by  one  vote.  The  old 

6  Writings,  Vol.  33,  pp.  22-24. 

7  Writings,  Vol.  33,  pp.  474~479- 

s  Writings,  To  David  Stuart,  June  15,  1790,  Vol.  31,  p.  52. 

9  Writings,  Vol.  33,  p.  485. 

10  Writings,  Vol.  34,  pp.  15-19. 

11  Writings,  Vol.  34,  p.  37. 

12  Writings,  Vol.  34,  p.  413. 

13  Writings,  Vol.  33,  p.  414. 

14  Writings,  Vol.  34,  pp.  339-342. 


178  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

soldier  writes  to  John  Trumbull  in  June,  1799,  that  attack  is  the  best 
defence. 

Washington's  diplomatic  efforts  to  secure  the  services  of  General 
Knox  and  General  C.  C.  Pinckney  as  Major  Generals  while  placing 
Colonel  Hamilton  over  them  as  the  ranking  Major  General,  reveals  his 
fine  command  of  language.  The  jealousies  of  individuals  and  of  sectional 
feeling;  the  incompetence  of  Congress,  which  adjourned  without  provid- 
ing Washington  with  the  necessary  officers;  the  failure  of  John  Adams 
to  keep  his  "compact"  with  Washington,  culminated  in  Washington's 
firm  letter  to  Adams  of  September  25,  1798,15  which  reviews  the  entire 
matter  and  is  itself  history.  His  interest  in  the  founding  of  a  national 
university  at  Washington,  for  which  he  left  a  bequest,  was  prompted 
by  his  belief  that  it  would  promote  the  union  he  had  done  so  much  to 
bring  about. 

The  Farewell  Address  of  Washington  is  his  greatest  single  utterance. 
When  he  expected  to  decline  a  second  nomination  in  1792  he  wrote  to 
Madison  asking  him  to  prepare  such  a  letter  of  farewell  to  the  citizens 
of  the  United  States.  He  outlined  the  subjects  which  he  wished  to  dis- 
cuss,16 but  knowing  Madison's  skill  in  expression  he  asked  his  aid.  This 
occasion  passed,  and  when  in  1796  he  began  his  final  farewell  he  turned 
to  Hamilton,  sent  his  "First  Draft,"  1T  with  Madison's  notes,  to  him,  and 
asked  similar  assistance.  Hamilton  sent  two  drafts,  one  of  which  Washing- 
ton preferred  and  of  which  he  made  use  with  many  excisions  and  addi- 
tions. After  consulting  the  Cabinet,  he  gave  the  final  form  to  Claypoole's 
American  Daily  Advertiser,  September  19,  1796.18 

This  is  not  the  place  to  deal  with  text  comparisons,  but  to  anyone 
familiar  with  Washington's  writings  the  Farewell  Address  bears  un- 
mistakable qualities  of  his  own  style.  Washington,  like  all  great  presi- 
dents, was  an  adaptor  of  ideas,  but  he  gave  the  final  form  to  the  Address. 
The  title  is  itself  significant;  it  was  truly  an  address  to  his  "friends  and 
fellow-citizens."  He  gave  to  them  the  American  conception  of  a  "citizen" 
as  opposed  to  a  "subject"  and  established  the  dignity  of  the  "First  Citizen," 
a  term  which  he  preferred  to  that  of  "the  Monarch"  he  was  pressed  so 
hard  by  one  element  to  assume.  The  Address  has  been  so  often  misin- 
terpreted for  partisan  reasons  that  it  should  be  read  by  everyone  as 
Washington  gave  it  to  his  country.  For  example,  it  is  usually  quoted  as 
a  warning  against  foreign  entanglements.  Washington  did  advise  us  to 
"steer  clear  of  permanent  alliances  with  any  portion  of  the  foreign  world," 
but  he  added:  "So  far  I  mean  as  wc  are  now  at  liberty  to  do  it,  for  let 

15  Writings,  Vol.  36,  pp.  453-462. 

10  Writings,  Vol.  32,  pp.  45-49. 

17  Writings,  Vol.  35,  pp.  51-61. 

ls  Writings,  Vol.  35,  pp.  214-238.  See  also  John  C.  Fitzpatrick,  George  Washington, 
Himself  (1933),  p.  498,  and  Victor  H.  Paltsits,  Washington's  Farewell  Address  (1935), 
pp.  520-555. 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY  i79 

me  not  be  understood  as  capable  of  patronizing  infidelity  to  existing 
engagements."  There  are  thousands  of  Americans  who  made  with  their 
lives  engagements  for  this  nation  to  keep,  which  were  broken  in  191 8  for 
reasons  which  Washington  would  have  scorned. 

The  main  emphasis  in  the  Address  is  upon  the  vital  importance  of  the 
Union,  and  Washington's  eloquence  rises  to  a  high  note  in  several  places 
upon  this  subject.  But  the  sincerity  of  his  closing  paragraph  will  ever 
make  it  a  favorite  with  his  fellowr  citizens: 

Reiving  on  its  kindness  in  this  as  in  other  things,  and  actuated  by  that  fervent 
love  towards  it,  which  is  so  natural  to  a  Man,  who  views  in  it  the  native  soil 
of  himself  and  his  progenitors  for  several  Generations;  I  anticipate  with 
pleasing  expectation  that  retreat,  in  which  I  promise  myself  to  realize,  without 
allov,  the  sweet  enjoyment  of  partaking,  in  the  midst  of  my  fellow  Citizens, 
the  benign  influence  of  good  Laws  under  a  free  Government,  the  ever  favourite 
object  of  my  heart,  and  the  happy  reward,  as  1  trust,  of  our  mutual  cares, 
labours  and  dangers.19 

It  was  the  ever  favorite  object  of  his  heart,  indeed! 

This  original  manuscript  is  entirely  in  Washington's  handwriting,  and 
the  rumors  concerning  Hamilton's  authorship,  beyond  the  advisory 
services  already  indicated,  did  not  start  until  after  the  death  of  both  men 
concerned,  and  can  be  dismissed.20 


Washington's  great  ally  in  the  framing  of  the  Constitution,  James 
Madison,  also  wrote  in  its  defence  what  is  most  truly  literature.  He  came 
to  the  Convention  the  best  prepared,  by  the  study  of  the  history  of  federal 
governments  and  by  natural  endowments,  to  express  in  words  the  great 
compromise  between  the  conflicting  views  of  the  large  states  and  the 
small  ones,  between  the  sections  of  the  country,  between  the  agricultural 
and  the  commercial  interests.  His  own  account  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
Convention  was  not  published  until  1841,  but  it  has  the  validity  of  the 
active  participant,  whose  objectivity  and  fairness  have  given  us  an  im- 
perishable record  of  the  speeches,  motions  and  comments  of  as  remarkable 
a  group  of  men  as  were  ever  assembled  in  such  an  undertaking.  Through 
his  account  we  can  visualize  the  leading  spirits:  Benjamin  Franklin, 
Gouverneur  Morris,  and  James  Wilson  of  Pennsylvania;  John  Dickinson 

19  Writings,  Vol.  35,  p.  238.  See  also  Paltsits,  Washington's  Farewell  Address,  p.  136. 

20  Victor  H.  Paltsits,  in  his  edition  of  the  Farewell  Address,  printed  the  first  draft 
of  Washington,  Madison's  draft,  Hamilton's  first  and  "major"  drafts,  and  Washington's 
"Final  Draft,"  the  last  in  a  facsimile  of  the  original  manuscript.  The  many  alterations 
and  corrections  of  the  "Final  Draft"  reveal  how  Washington  chose  and  rejected 
suggestions  and  made  the  Address  his  own.  Paltsits  also  printed  the  correspondence 
concerning  the  claims  of  the  Hamilton  family  and  concluded  with  the  statement, 
"There  is  nowhere  a  scintilla  of  evidence  that  can  be  attached  to  Hamilton  while 
he  lived,  to  warrant  a  suspicion  that  he  ever  entertained  the  thought,  much  less 
asserted  it,  that  he  was  the  real  author  of  the  Farewell  Address."  (p.  75). 


i8o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  Delaware;  Charles  Pinckney  of  South  Carolina;  Madison,  Edmund 
Randolph,  and  George  Mason  of  Virginia;  Hamilton  of  New  York;  Rufus 
King  of  Massachusetts;  Roger  Sherman  of  Connecticut,  and  presiding 
over  all,  George  Washington,  who  had  copied  in  his  own  hand  Madison's 
material  on  the  history  of  federations.21  There  were  many  able  speakers 
and  at  times  the  utterances  of  Franklin  and  Hamilton  amount  to  essays, 
but  Madison's  speeches  are  the  best,  so  far  as  force  and  clarity  are  con- 
cerned. Of  course,  he  had  the  advantage  of  being  able  to  reproduce  and 
polish  his  own  speeches  from  his  notes,  but  his  fairness  is  shown  in  the 
way  in  which  the  humor  of  Franklin,  the  brilliant  sarcasm  of  Randolph, 
Pinckney  and  Morris,  and  the  solidity  of  Wilson  are  reflected  from  his 
picture  of  those  hot  days  of  a  Philadelphia  summer,  when  the  fate  of  a 
nation  was  being  decided.  And,  although  the  final  literary  form  owes 
much  also  to  Wilson  and  to  Morris,  through  it  all  the  calm  authority  of 
the  man  who  knew  most  stands  out  distinctly. 

Madison  next  devoted  himself  to  the  task  of  convincing  Virginia  of 
the  merits  of  the  Constitution.  Here  he  met  the  opposition  of  a  brilliant 
orator,  Patrick  Henry,  and  refuted  his  arguments,  by  proving  the  inade- 
quacy of  mere  confederations,  like  the  Amphictyonic  Council,  the  Ger- 
man Empire  and  the  Confederacy  of  Holland.  The  consent  of  Virginia 
being  secured,  he  joined 'Alexander  Hamilton  and  John  Jay  in  their  efforts 
to  secure  the  adherence  of  New  York.  The  papers  they  wrote  for  this 
purpose  now  make  up  the  volume  known  as  The  Federalist.  They  were 
published  over  the  pen  name  of  "Publius,"  in  the  Independent  Journal, 
the  Daily  Advertiser,  The  Packet  and  other  New  York  newspapers  in  the 
fall  of  1787  and  the  spring  of  1788  and  were  addressed  "to  the  people 
of  the  State  of  New  York."  In  book  form  the  two  volumes  appeared  in 
March  and  May  of  1788.  As  Hamilton  states  in  the  first  paper,  the  topics 
discussed  are  "The  utility  of  the  Union  to  your  political  prosperity,  the 
insufficiency  of  the  present  Confederation  to  preserve  that  Union,  the 
necessity  of  a  government  at  least  equally  energetic  with  the  one  pro- 
posed to  the  attainment  of  this  object,  the  conformity  of  the  proposed 
constitution  to  the  true  principles  of  republican  government— its  analogy 
to  your  own  state  constitution— and  lastly— the  additional  security  which 
its  adoption  will  afford  to  the  preservation  of  that  species  of  government, 
to  liberty  and  to  property."  22 

The  aim  of  the  writers  of  The  Federalist  was  not  primarily  the  produc- 
tion of  literature,  but  the  skill  which  they  display  in  the  handling  of  their 
material,  the  distinction  and  yet  the  simplicity  of  their  language  and  the 
tremendous  importance  of  the  themes  discussed,  raise  the  essays  above 
the  usual  grade  of  political  writing  to  the  level  of  great  state  papers. 

21  See  Randolph  Bourne,  "Madison's  Studies  in  Federal  Government"  in  his  Essays 
in  Historical  Criticism  (1901),  pp.  165-169,  for  a  list  of  the  sources  used  by  Madison. 

22  This  is  the  wording  as  given  in  the  edition  of  1818. 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY  181 

The  authorship  of  the  essays  of  The  Federalist  has  been  a  source  of 
dispute.  There  were  eighty-five  papers.  In  1 8 1 8  an  edition  appeared, 
"corrected  by  Mr.  Madison,"  in  which  twenty-nine  are  claimed  by  him, 
fifty-one  attributed  to  Hamilton  and  five  to  Jay.  Unless  Madison's  veracity 
is  called  in  question,  this  division  should  be  accepted,  and  internal  evi- 
dence supports  such  a  distribution,  which  was  accepted  by  Bancroft.-'1 
In  general,  Hamilton  was  concerned  with  the  defects  of  the  Confederacy 
and  the  advantages  of  a  more  definite  Union;  Madison  dealt  with  the 
historic  approach  to  the  subject  and  with  the  opinions  and  actions  of 
the  Constitutional  Convention;  and  Jay's  five  papers  contributed  the  dis- 
cussion concerning  foreign  relations.  There  can  be  little  question  that  the 
general  plan  was  discussed  by  the  authors,  but  the  speed  with  which  the 
papers  had  to  be  sent  to  the  newspapers  precluded  any  "joint  contribu- 
tion," as  has  been  stated  by  some  historians,  who  have  been  misled  by 
obvious  similarities  of  tone. 

As  an  example  of  distinguished  expression,  the  famous  Paper  Number 
X,  written  by  Madison,  illustrates  the  right  of  The  Federalist  to  be  called 
literature.  Aiming  at  the  evils  of  faction,  he  proceeds  step  by  step,  with 
irresistible  logic,  to  examine  the  causes  and  effects  of  party  violence  and 
consequent  tyranny  of  the  majority  over  the  rights  of  others.  Giving  in 
each  case  alternatives,  he  clears  away  the  cloudy  political  thinking  of  his 
time  and,  despairing  of  curing  human  nature  of  factional  prejudice,  he 
proceeds  to  show  how  the  Union  will  do  away  with  its  worst  defects. 
He  then  proceeds  to  his  distinction  between  a  pure  democracy  and  a 
republic,  which  has  become  the  core  of  our  political  thinking,  and  de- 
cides in  favor  of  the  latter: 

The  two  great  points  of  difference  between  a  democracy  and  a  republic  are: 
first,  the  delegation  of  the  government,  in  the  latter,  to  a  small  number  of 
citizens  elected  by  the  rest;  secondly,  the  greater  number  of  citizens,  and 
greater  sphere  of  country,  over  which  the  latter  may  be  extended. 

The  effect  of  the  first  difference  is,  on  the  one  hand,  to  refine  and  enlarge 
the  public  views,  by  passing  them  through  the  medium  of  a  chosen  body  of 
citizens,  whose  wisdom  may  best  discern  the  true  interest  of  their  country, 
and  whose  patriotism  and  love  of  justice  will  be  least  likely  to  sacrifice  it  to 
temporary  or  partial  considerations.  Under  such  a  regulation,  it  may  well 
happen  that  the  public  voice,  pronounced  by  the  representatives  of  the  people, 
will  be  more  consonant  to  the  public  good  than  if  pronounced  by  the  people 
themselves,  convened  for  the  purpose.  On  the  other  hand,  the  effect  may  be 
inverted.  Men  of  factious  tempers,  of  local  prejudices,  or  of  sinister  designs, 
may,  by  intrigue,  by  corruption,  or  by  other  means,  first  obtain  the  suffrages, 
and  then  betray  the  interests  of  the  people.24 

23  The  editions  of  Henry  Cabot  Lodge  and  Paul  Leicester  Ford  give  different 
results,  but  the  historical  analyses  by  Edward  G.  Bourne  and  by  Douglass  Adair 
confirm  lYIadison's  claims. 

24  The  Federalist,  No.  io  (Nov.  23,  1787).  Edition  of  1818. 


1 8z  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

There  is  also  an  enthusiasm,  a  profound  belief  in  their  cause,  which 
lifts  the  language  of  The  Federalist  into  permanence.  In  Paper  XIV,  after 
dealing  with  the  objection  that  the  Constitution  is  a  novelty,  that  it  rashly 
attempts  what  it  is  impossible  to  accomplish,  Madison's  appeal  rings  out: 

No,  my  countrymen,  shut  your  ears  against  this  unhallowed  language.  Shut 
your  hearts  against  the  poison  which  it  conveys.  The  kindred  blood  which 
flows  in  the  veins  of  American  citizens,  the  mingled  blood  which  they  have 
shed  in  defence  of  their  sacred  rights,  consecrate  their  union,  and  excite  horror 
at  the  idea  of  their  becoming  aliens,  rivals,  enemies. 

It  seems  as  though  Abraham  Lincoln  might  have  been  speaking,  for 
the  sentiments,  even  the  very  language  of  this  paper,  sound  in  the  "Gettys- 
burg Address"  and  the  "First  Inaugural."  It  is  because  The  Federalist  faces 
the  future  that  it  has  become,  with  the  Constitution  it  defended,  the  sign- 
post that  has  directed  the  course  of  our  national  life.  Hamilton  evidently 
framed  the  plan  of  The  Federalist,  and  wrote  the  largest  number  of  the 
papers,  but  in  those  qualities  that  distinguish  literature  from  the  vast  mass 
of  political  writing,  Madison  seems  to  have  possessed  the  greatest  share. 

The  Federalist  was  translated  into  French  in  1792  by  C.  M.  Trudaine 
de  la  Sabliere,  the  authorship  being  first  announced  publicly  on  the  title 
page,  and  Hamilton  and  Madison  were  given  the  title  of  Citizens  of 
France.  The  French  translation  was  well  known  in  Germany.  In  1868  a 
Spanish  translation  by  J.  M,  Cantelo  appeared  in  Buenos  Aires,  and  a 
Portuguese  translation  in  Brazil,  in  1 840.  It  was  not  republished  in  England. 

Hamilton's  other  writings  are  concerned  so  largely  with  taxation  and 
finance  that  they  do  not  often  rise  into  literature.  There  is  an  eloquent 
defence  of  the  Constitution,  given  in  the  New  York  Convention.25  But 
Hamilton's  constructive  services  lasted  longer  than  his  political  theories. 
His  distrust  of  the  people  mars  even  such  eloquent  arguments  as  that 
concerning  the  possibility  of  a  strong  national  government  destroying  the 
state  governments.26  He  takes  usually  the  legal  point  of  view,  although 
some  of  his  writings  signed  "Pacificus"  or  "Americanus"  are  interesting 
reading,  such  as  his  defence  of  the  "Proclamation  of  Neutrality,"  June  29, 
1793;  "7  or  his  belief  that  France  helped  us  in  the  Revolution  through 
her  own  interest;  or  his  shrewd  analysis  of  "The  Public  Conduct  and 
Character  of  John  Adams,  Esq.,  President  of  the  United  States,"  written 
about  1800,  in  which  he  arrives  at  the  conclusion  that  Adams  did  not 
possess  the  talents  adapted  to  the  administration  of  government  and  that 
there  are  intrinsic  defects  in  his  character  which  render  him  unfit  for 
the  office  of  chief  magistrate.2*  Such  themes,  however,  do  not  rise  to  the 
level  of  the  great  principles  discussed  in  The  Federalist. 

25  Works,  ed.  H.  C.  Lodge  ( 1885) ,  Vol.  2,  pp.  3-100.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

26  Works,  Vol.  2,  pp.  68-69. 
-~  Works,  Vol.  4,  pp.  432-444. 
28  Works,  Vol.  7,  pp.  309-364. 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY  183 

The  Constitution  was  defended  also  by  John  Dickinson,  in  the  Letters 
of  Fabhis  which  began  to  appear  in  newspapers  in  April,  1788.  There  is  a 
literary  flavor  in  these  letters.  "Liberty  is  the  sun  of  society,"  he  said  in 
Letter  IV.  "Rights  are  the  rays."  The  general  tendency  of  the  Letters  is 
democratic,  for  while  he  prophesies  optimistically  concerning  the  political 
purity  of  the  legislative  branches,  he  argues  for  the  ultimate  power  of  the 
people  in  making  decisions. 


That  the  writings  of  Thomas  Jefferson  are  more  truly  literature  than 
those  of  his  chief  rival  is  due  not  only  to  the  singular  ability  of  a  great 
master  of  the  resources  of  language  but  also  because  the  founder  of  the 
party  of  leadership  had  the  opportunity  to  address  the  nation  as  a  whole 
upon  political  questions  which  Hamilton,  the  founder  of  the  party  of 
institutions,  never  achieved.  Jefferson  had  already  given  proof  of  his 
great  ability  in  the  coining  of  phrases  in  the  Declaration  of  Independence. 
The  subtle  distinction  among  human  rights  in  "life,  liberty,  and  the 
pursuit  of  happiness,"  is  only  one  of  many  instances.  The  Declaration  has 
stood  one  of  the  most  cruel  of  tests  in  the  thousands  of  readings  at  Fourth 
of  July  celebrations,  and  has  survived  them  all.  Jefferson  did  not  invent 
the  Declaration,  but  he  crystallized  into  one  piece  of  writing  the  thoughts 
and  feelings  of  many  people  for  many  years,  and  produced  our  greatest 
human  document.  So  it  is  not  surprising  that  among  the  most  eloquent 
writing  of  the  early  nineteenth  century  are  his  Inaugural  Addresses  and 
Messages.  In  1805  in  his  "First  Inaugural"  he  struck  a  note  of  concilia- 
tion: "Every  difference  of  opinion  is  not  a  difference  of  principle.— We 
are  all  Republicans— we  are  all  Federalists."  29 

How  appealing  his  speeches  are  was  shown  on  the  stage  in  Sidney 
Kingsley's  play,  The  Patriots.  Jefferson's  "Second  Inaugural"  in  1805  con- 
tains a  strong  and  moving  defence  against  the  attacks  of  the  Federalist 
press,  for  his  supposed  atheism,  best  refuted  by  its  concluding  reference 
to  Providence: 

..  .to  whose  goodness  I  ask  you  to  join  with  me  in  supplications,  that  he  will 
so  enlighten  the  minds  of  your  servants,  guide  their  councils,  and  prosper  their 
measures,  that  whatsoever  they  do,  shall  result  in  your  good,  and  shall  secure 
to  you  the  peace,  friendship,  and  approbation  of  all  nations.80 

This  foreshadows  Lincoln's  ending  in  his  "Second  Inaugural":  "to  do 
all  which  may  achieve  and  cherish  a  just  and  lasting  peace  among  our- 
selves and  with  all  nations."  That  Lincoln  read  Jefferson  carefully  is 
shown  by  his  reference  to  the  latter  in  his  Cooper  Union  speech. 

Jefferson's  letters,  illustrating  the  broad  scope  of  his  interests,  often 

29  Writings,  Memorial  Edition,  ed.  A.  A.  Lipscomb  (1904),  Vol.  3,  p.  319. 

30  Writings,  Memorial  Edition,  Vol.  3,  p.  383. 


i84  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

contain  ideas  and  phrases  which  are  now  so  imbedded  in  our  political  or 
economic  philosophy  that  we  forget  their  origin.  Among  them  stand  out 
his  remarks  on  Jay's  treaty,  in  1798:  "Acquiescence  under  insult  is  not  the 
way  to  escape  war."  31  and  his  letter  in  1785  describing  the  condition  of 
the  poor  in  France,  and  insisting  upon  their  right  to  labor,32  or  his  ob- 
jection to  the  oligarchy  of  committees  and  his  preference  for  the  single 
executive,  or  his  striking  figure,  in  1797:  "We  shall  never  give  up  our 
Union— the  last  anchor  of  our  hope."  Jefferson's  style  was  constantly  en- 
riched by  figures  of  speech,  so  appropriate  that  they  seemed  an  integral 
part  of  the  thought,  and  not  an  artificial  ornament.  There  is  an  especially 
delightful  letter  advocating  Union  instead  of  "scission": 

Perhaps  this  party  division  is  necessary  to  induce  each  to  watch  and  delegate 
to  the  people  the  proceedings  of  the  other.  But  if  on  a  temporary  superiority 
of  the  one  party,  the  other  is  to  resort  to  a  scission  of  the  Union,  no  federal 
government  can  ever  exist.  If  to  rid  ourselves  of  the  present  rule  of  Massa- 
chusetts and  Connecticut,  we  break  the  Union,  will  the  evil  stop  there?  Suppose 
the  New  England  States  alone  cut  off,  will  our  nature  be  changed?  Are  we 
not  men  still  to  the  south  of  that,  and  with  all  the  passions  of  men?  Immediately, 
we  shall  see  a  Pennsylvania  and  a  Virginia  party  arise  in  the  residuary  con- 
federacy, and  the  public  mind  will  be  distracted  with  the  same  party  spirit.33 

Among  his  political  activities,  he  found  time  to  devote  to  education,  to 
found  the  University  of  Virginia  and  even  to  express  himself  on  the  study 
of  Anglo-Saxon.  The  essay  on  this  latter  subject  was  written  probably  in 
1798  although  it  was  not  printed  until  1851.  Long  before  Germanic 
scholarship  had  established  the  real  principles  of  English  versification,  his 
Thoughts  on  English  Prosody  threw  doubt  on  the  quantitative  basis,  then 
believed  in,  and  insisted  on  the  fundamentally  accentual  nature  of  our 
verse. 

His  Autobiography  was  begun  at  the  age  of  seventy-seven  and  con- 
tains an  account  of  his  life  from  1743  to  1790.  Here  we  read  of  his  Welsh 
and  Scottish  ancestry  and  of  his  education.  Some  of  the  noteworthy  pas- 
sages are  his  tribute  to  Madison,34  his  prophecy  of  what  will  happen  if  the 
slaves  are  not  freed  and  deported,35  his  ideas  on  the  Presidency  and  other 
necessary  amendments  to  the  Constitution,36  his  belief  that  the  Courts 
should  be  subjected  to  some  practical  and  impartial  control,  and  his  ac- 
count of  Franklin's  giving  him  a  portion  of  his  Autobiography  to  read 
and  keep. 

31  Writings,  ed.  Paul  L.  Ford  (1895),  Vol.  7,  p.  31.  Following  references  are  to  this 
edition. 

32  Writings,  Vol.  7,  p.  35. 

33  Writings,  Vol.  7,  p.  264. 

34  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  57. 

35  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  68. 

36  Writings,  Vol.  1,  pp.  iio-iii. 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY  185 

Among  the  letters  of  this  time  which  possess  literary  quality  those  of 
Mrs.  John  Adams  rank  very  high.  They  represent  the  woman,  cultivated 
and  conversant  with  affairs,  her  New  England  morality  modified  and 
tempered  by  experience.  There  is  a  sense  of  form  unusual  in  letters  but 
the  family  she  helped  to  found  have  been  accustomed  to  correspond  with 
posterity.  Her  observations  of  her  fellow  passengers  on  her  voyage  when 
she  was  going  to  Europe  to  join  her  husband  in  1784  are  delightful.  At  all 
times  she  had  a  sense  of  contrasts,  shown  in  her  comparisons  of  the  people 
of  England  and  America.37  The  friendly  relations  between  the  Adams 
and  Jefferson  families,  dispelling  the  conventional  picture  of  the  rivalry 
of  the  two  political  leaders,  shines  in  her  remark  that  "Jefferson  is  one  of 
the  choice  ones  of  the  Earth."  38  and  her  picture  39  of  the  affection  that 
Jefferson's  daughter  had  for  her  is  interesting  not  only  for  its  charming- 
tone  but  also  for  the  implicit  revelation  of  the  attraction  that  Abigail 
Adams  had  for  those  she  loved.  She  looked  upon  the  British  and  French 
society  alike  with  the  unabashed  eyes  of  New  England,  of  one  who  be- 
lieved that:  "With  us,  in  point  of  education  and  manners,  the  learned 
professions,  and  many  merchants,  farmers,  and  tradesmen,  are  upon  an 
equality  with  the  gentry  of  this  country."  40 

In  more  serious  vein  are  her  letters  to  John  Adams  from  Quincy,  on 
the  day  in  1797  when  he  was  as  Vice-President,  required  to  announce  him- 
self as  elected  to  the  Presidency,  and  the  fine  counsel  she  had  sent  earlier 
to  John  Quincy  Adams  from  London,  September  6,  1785,  which  reads 
like  a  prophecy.  Speaking  of  the  restrictive  legislation  of  Great  Britain 
directed  against  us,  she  says: 

Those,  who  look  beyond  the  present  moment,  foresee  the  consequences,  that 
this  nation  will  never  leave  us  until  they  drive  us  into  power  and  greatness 
that  will  finally  shake  this  kingdom. 

and  concludes: 

...  I  know  her  [America]  capable  of  whatever  she  undertakes.  I  hope  you 
will  never  lose  sight  of  her  interests;  but  make  her  welfare  your  study,  and 
spend  those  hours,  which  others  devote  to  cards  and  folly,  in  investigating  the 
great  principles  by  which  nations  have  risen  to  glory  and  eminence;  for  your 
country  will  one  day  call  for  your  services,  either  in  the  cabinet  or  field. 
Qualify  yourself  to  do  honor  to  her.41 

The  letters  written  to  Abigail  Adams'  sister,  Mrs.  Cranch,  from  1788 
to  1 80 1  are  naturally  more  familiar  and  deal  often  with  personal  matters. 
But  her  comments  upon  John  Adams'  motive  in  his  apparently  sudden 

37  Letter  to  Mrs.  Shaw,  August  15,  1785,  from  London,  p.  305  in  the  Letters,  ed. 
C.  F.  Adams  (1840).  Following  references  are  to  this  edition. 

38  Letters,  p.  292. 

39  Letters,  p.  377. 

40  Letters,  pp.  387-388. 

41  Letters,  p.  313. 


1 86  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

shift  in  his  attitude  toward  France  are  only  a  few  examples  of  her  under- 
writing of  history.  Her  picture  of  the  scene  at  the  theatre  when  "Hail 
Columbia!"  was  first  sung  is  vivid  and  dramatic.42 

The  general  impression  from  the  letters  is  that  of  a  woman  of  extra- 
ordinary character,  a  fit  mate  for  a  president  and  the  mother  of  a  presi- 
dent, who  had  strong  prejudices  but  had  a  mind  far  above  the  usual  man 
or  woman  of  the  time  and  who  writes  in  a  style  that  is  direct  and  very 
often  brilliant. 


Three  men  of  letters,  whose  work  as  poets  and  essayists  may  be  con- 
sidered representative  of  this  early  period,  were  also  typical  of  the  two 
political  ideals,  the  Federalist  and  the  Democratic,  which  divided  the  na- 
tion. Timothy  Dwight,  a  grandson  of  Jonathan  Edwards,  was  born  at 
Northampton,  Massachusetts,  May  14,  1752.  He  was  a  tireless  student, 
being  ready  for  Yale  College  at  the  age  of  eight,  though  he  was  not  per- 
mitted to  enter  until  he  was  thirteen.  Graduating  in  1769,  he  nearly 
ruined  his  health  by  reducing  his  daily  diet  to  fourteen  mouthfuls  in  an 
effort  to  avoid  exercise,  and  during  his  tutorship  at  Yale,  his  chaplain's 
service  in  the  Army,  and  his  pastorate  at  Greenfield,  Connecticut,  he  con- 
tinued his  energetic  career.  This  culminated  with  his  election  to  the 
presidency  at  Yale  in  1795  where  he  remained,  an  important  force  in  the 
education  of  the  time,  until  his  death  in  181 7.  With  Dwight's  early 
sermons  we  are  not  concerned.  His  first  work  of  importance  was  The 
Conquest  of  Canaan,  eleven  books  of  five-stress  rimed  verse,  published  in 
1785.  It  had  been  written  from  1771  to  1774.  It  is  a  versification  of  in- 
cidents, much  twisted,  taken  from  the  Bible,  and  is  concerned  principally 
with  the  attack  upon  the  city  of  Ai  by  Joshua.  There  is  much  fighting, 
some  love-making  and  a  great  deal  of  rhetoric.  The  verse  is  vigorous, 
echoing  Goldsmith  quite  as  much  as  Pope,  as  two  lines  from  Book  VII 
will  indicate: 

"Ah  wretch!"  he  cried ...  "to  childish  heat  a  prey, 
How  soon  wild  passion  drove  my  steps  astray!" 

Dwight  apologized  for  the  choice  of  a  Biblical  rather  than  a  national 
theme,  claiming  with  unconscious  humor,  that  the  Iliad  and  Eneid  were 
as  "agreeable"  to  modern  readers  as  to  the  Greeks  and  Romans.  His 
audiences  knew  their  Bible  better  than  modern  readers,  and  he  was  paral- 
leling the  taste  of  the  day  in  painting  and  sculpture.  In  1788  Dwight 
published  anonymously  The  Triumph  of  Infidelity,  a  satiric  attack  in 
verse  upon  the  divine  who  does  not  believe  in  Hell;  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church;  modern  philosophy;  the  Chinese  and  other  institutions,  via  Satan, 
whose  praise,  of  course,  condemns  them.  It  is  also  a  defence  of  the  Calvin- 

42  New  Letters  of  Abigail  Adams,  ed.  Stewart  Mitchell  (1947),  p.  165. 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY  ,s: 

istic  theology  of  which  D wight  was  a  pillar,  and  a  counterblast  to  Unitari- 
anism  just  then  being  born. 

In  1794  Greenfield  Hill  appeared,  inspired  by  his  love  of  the  locality 
in  which  his  pastorate  lay.  Dwight's  curious  experimentation  in  verse 
forms  is  probably  the  most  interesting  feature  of  this  narrative  for  while 
there  are  occasional  passages,  such  as  the  sack  of  Fairfield  by  the  British, 
in  Part  Three,  in  which  his  indignation  strikes  fire,  the  poem  is  so  formal 
and  so  provincial  that  it  is  almost  unreadable.  Yet  it  is  probably  Dwight's 
best  effort  in  verse. 

Dwight's  later  sermons  are  not  literature,  but  there  is  a  certain  dramatic 
value  in  the  sermon  he  preached  at  New  Haven  in  1804  against  dueling, 
two  months  after  his  cousin,  Aaron  Burr,  had  killed  Alexander  Hamilton. 
Travels  in  New  England  and  New  York,  published  in  four  volumes  post- 
humously in  182 1,  is  really  a  series  of  dissertations  on  things  in  general, 
put  in  the  old  form  of  letters  to  "an  English  Gentleman,"  and  deriving  its 
interest  from  the  personality  of  Dwight.  The  printed  work  of  such  a 
vigorous  person  loses  much  as  time  passes,  especially  if  he  takes  such  a 
narrow  Federalistic  view  as  to  sympathize  with  the  refusal  of  the  governor 
of  Connecticut  to  contribute  militia  to  the  cause  of  his  country  in  the 
War  of  18 1 2.  His  most  striking  contributions  are  occasional  penetrating- 
critical  judgments,  in  his  Travels,  such  as  "No  American  has  within  my 
knowledge  been  willing  to  inhabit  a  garret,  for  the  sake  of  becoming  an 
author."  But  this  was,  of  course,  the  trouble  with  American  literature  of 
his  day. 

Joel  Barlow,  who  divides  attention  with  Dwight  as  the  founder  of  the 
American  epic,  is  of  even  more  importance  as  a  statesman  and  political 
liberal.  He  was  born  in  Redding,  Connecticut,  in  1754,  was  also  a  gradu- 
ate of  Yale,  in  1779,  and  a  chaplain  in  the  Army.  In  1787  he  gave  to  the 
world  The  Vision  of  Columbus,  which  he  had  been  writing  since  1780 
and  which  he  afterwards  developed  into  The  Columbiad  in  1807,  a  sump- 
tuous example  of  American  bookmaking,  with  a  portrait  of  Barlow  by 
his  friend  Robert  Fulton.  The  verse  is  that  of  Pope,  the  five-stress  rimed 
couplet.  The  subject  is  all  outdoors.  Columbus,  in  chains,  has  a  vision  in 
which  he  sees  the  American  Continent  in  all  its  glory,  and  has  shown  to 
him  at  times  by  a  seraph,  and  at  other  times  by  Hesper,  the  future  of 
American  history.  Colonial  history  and  the  Revolutionary  War  are  also 
revealed  to  him,  and  the  author,  not  content  with  this  prophesying  with 
known  material,  lets  his  fancy  fly,  and  foretells  what  is  going  to  happen 
to  the  American  Continent  if  slavery  and  other  institutions  of  which  he 
disapproves,  are  not  done  away  with.  It  is  a  curious  mixture  of  romance 
with  the  high  spots  of  history.  The  Revolution  naturally  is  given  a  good 
deal  of  attention.  There  is  some  very  vigorous  verse  describing  the  war, 
in  Book  VII,  and  as  usual  in  poetry  this  is  better  than  the  denunciation  of 
war  in  Book  V.  Yet  in  his  Preface  Barlow  gives  as  his  real  object  "to  in- 


188  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

culcate  the  love  of  rational  liberty  and  to  discountenance  the  deleterious 
passion  for  violence  and  war;  and  to  show  that  on  the  basis  of  the  re- 
publican principle  all  good  morals,  as  well  as  good  government  and  hopes 
of  permanent  peace,  must  be  founded."  He  believed  that  poetry,  paint- 
ing and  other  fine  arts  should  implant  true  and  useful  ideas  of  glory  in 
the  minds  of  men,  and  his  description  of  the  literature  and  the  arts  in 
his  day,  while  too  glowing  especially  as  to  D wight,  is  not  without  value 
now. 

The  absurdities  of  The  Columbiad,  are  manifest,  such  as  the  lecture  the  i 
god,  Flood,  delivers  to  Washington  while  the  latter  is  crossing  the  Dela- 
ware.  But  it  may  also  be  looked  upon  as  an  early  example  of  the  poetry 
that  depicted  the  American  scene  with  sympathy  and  understanding.  If 
the  rivers  and  mountains  of  his  native  land  are  painted  in  too  effusive 
terms  it  is  a  pardonable  fault. 

In  1788  Barlow  went  to  France  and  wrote  there  his  essay,  Advice  to  the 
Privileged  Orders,  a  reply  to  Edmund  Burke  and  an  appreciation  of  the 
French  Revolution  as  far  as  it  had  then  proceeded.  Equality  of  man  was 
accepted  by  him  in  the  Jeffersonian  sense,  that  is,  an  equality  of  rights. 
In  this  essay  his  democratic  principles  are  clearly  shown.  He  attacks 
feudalism  and  the  laws  of  entail,  but,  in  his  attack  on  the  Christian  re- 
ligion, he  seems  ignorant  of  its  democratic  foundation  and  accomplish- 
ments. He  is  sounder  in  his  criticism  of  the  European  alliance  of  Church 
and  State.  His  conclusion  that  wars  will  not  be  begun  as  often  by  a  re- 
public as  by  a  monarchy  is  also  sound  enough,  but  his  belief  that  wars 
will  cease  when  nations  become  democratic  has  an  ironic  sound.  The 
responsibility  of  the  state  for  education  is  emphasized  and  his  picture 
of  the  English  law  courts  antedates  Dickens'  attack  in  Bleak  House  by 
fifty  years. 

In  1792  Barlow  followed  with  his  Letter  to  the  National  Convention  of 
France,  presented  by  Tom  Paine,  in  which  he  gave  several  suggestions 
which  were  incorporated  in  the  fundamental  actions  of  the  Convention. 
Barlow  was  made  an  honorary  citizen  of  France.  He  began  to  lose  his 
fondness  for  the  French  Revolution  after  the  excesses  of  1793,  especially 
in  La  Vendee,  but  he  never  lost  his  interest  in  democracy.  He  was  sent 
in  1792  as  an  envoy  of  France  to  Savoy  to  urge  that  country  to  become 
part  of  France,  and  while  his  Letter  Addressed  to  the  People  of  Piedmont 
did  not  persuade  them  to  do  so,  his  residence  there  led  to  the  writing  of 
his  most  popular  work,  a  poem  Hasty  Pudding,  published  in  1796  in  the 
New  York  Weekly  Magazine.  He  happened  to  eat  a  dish  of  this  New 
England  corn  meal,  and  the  nostalgia  for  his  early  associations  produced 
a  homely  set  of  verses,  often  reprinted. 

Barlow's  diplomacy  was  tested  by  his  successful  negotiation  of  a  treaty 
between  the  United  States  and  Algiers,  which  improved  the  situation  in 
the  Mediterranean,  and  released  the  American  prisoners  of  the  Algerian 


POLITICS  AND  POETRY  189 

pirates.43  Returning  to  this  country  in  1805,  he  continued  to  project  ideas. 
In  1806  his  Prospectus  of  a  National  Institution  contained  a  plan  for  a 
university  which  would  combine  research  and  instruction,  but  the  bill 
establishing  it  died  in  a  Senate  committee.  Barlow  was  constantly  called 
upon  for  addresses.  Probably  the  best  was  his  Fourth  of  July  Oration  be- 
fore the  Citizens  of  the  District  of  Columbia  (1809),  in  which  he  pledged 
anew  his  faith  in  democracy.  In  181 1  he  was  sent  by  A4adison  as  an  envoy 
to  Napoleon,  but  he  failed  to  reach  the  Emperor  and  died  in  Poland  in 
December,  181 2,  during  Napoleon's  retreat  from  Russia.  His  last  ut- 
terance, Advice  to  a  Raven  in  Russia,  was  a  bitter  attack  in  verse  upon 
Napoleon's  tyranny,  not  published  until  1843.44 

Another  member  of  this  group,  known  as  the  "Connecticut  Wits," 
David  Humphreys  (1753-1818),  soldier,  diplomat,  poet  and  playwright, 
needs  at  least  a  brief  notice  here.  He  had  written  probably  the  first  sonnet 
produced  in  the  United  States,  addressed  to  his  friends  when  he  left 
Yale  College  in  July,  1776,  to  join  the  Army,  and  his  last  was  upon  the 
death  of  Washington  in  1799.45  They  are  in  the  Spenserian  form  and 
are  respectable  and  occasional.  His  poem  on  The  Happiness  of  America 
(1785),  and  a  later  Poem  on  Industry  (1794),  belong  to  the  tributes  upon 
our  national  blessings  and  need  no  analysis  here.  The  second  does  grow 
eloquent  at  times  upon  the  miseries  of  our  people  enslaved  in  Algiers, 
whose  conditions  Humphreys  had  attempted  to  alleviate  while  he  was 
Minister  to  Portugal. 

This  constant  coloring  of  political  flavor  in  our  poetry  is  reflected  in 
the  composition  of  our  national  songs.  "Hail  Columbia!"  was  written  by 
Joseph  Hopkinson,  son  of  Francis  Hopkinson,  to  the  music  of  "The 
President's  March,"  which  had  become  a  party  air  of  the  Federalists.  It 
was  sung  first  by  the  actor,  Gilbert  Fox,  at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre, 
Philadelphia,  April  25,  1798.  While  stirring  and  singable,  it  has  not  the 
poetic  quality  of  "The  Star  Spangled  Banner,"  written  by  Francis  Scott 
Key,  while  he  was  detained  on  a  British  ship  during  the  attack  upon  Fort 
McHenry,  near  Baltimore,  April  13,  18 14.  This  was  set  to  the  music  of 
"Anacreon  in  Heaven"  (1771),  the  official  song  of  the  Anacreontic  So- 
ciety in  London  and  was  printed  as  a  broadside.  It  was  later  adopted  by 
the  Army  and  Navy  as  the  national  anthem,  and  notwithstanding  some 
attempts 'at  supplanting  it,  it  has  been  accepted  by  the  government  and 
the  people.  It  is  not  generally  recognized  how  much  it  surpasses  other 
national  songs,  with  the  exception  of  the  "Marseillaise,"  as  poetry.  Many 
of  its  phrases  have  become  part  of  our  national  life  and  have  been  taken 
again  and  again  as  titles  of  novels  and  verse. 

43  For  a  detailed  account  of  the  skill  with  which  Barlow  handled  this   difficult 
situation,  see  his  letters  in  C.  B.  Todd,  Life  of  Barlow  (1886),  pp.  1 15-150. 

4  4  See  Leon  Howard,  "Joel  Barlow  and  Napoleon,"  Huntington  Lib.  Quart.,  \  ol.  2 
(1938),  pp.  37-51. 

45  See  L.  Sterner,  The  Sonnet  in  American  Literature  (Philadelphia,  1930). 


Chapter  12 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA 

While  statesmen  were  writing  words  that  were  to  shape  the  nation's 
thinking  for  a  century  and  poets  were  producing  epics,  dignified  if  dull, 
the  beginnings  of  the  novel  in  America  were  taking  shape  in  imitation  of 
a  second-class  British  mode.  It  is  a  curious  human  trait  which  makes  us 
so  much  interested  in  "firsts."  The  earliest  novels  were  published  anony- 
mously and  claims  have  been  made  for  the  priority  of  Charlotte  Len- 
nox's Life  of  Harriot  Stuart  (1751)  and  of  Thomas  Atwood  Digges' 
Adventures  of  Alonzo  (1775).1  But  iMrs.  Lennox,  although  born  in  the 
Colonies,  left  them  early  in  her  life  and  all  her  writing  was  done  in  Eng- 
land. The  Adventures  of  Alonzo  has  a  better  claim  since,  if  the  ascription 
written  across  the  title  page  of  one  copy  is  correct,  its  author  was  a 
Maryland  gentleman  who  published  his  novel  in  London  but  who  re- 
turned to  this  country  and  died  here.  He  had  a  career  somewhat  parallel 
to  that  of  his  hero,  who  wandered  over  Europe  and  South  America.  The 
novel  has  nothing  to  do  with  this  country  but  neither  had  our  first  drama, 
The  Prince  of  Parthia.  The  first  full-length  novel,  written  in  America  by 
an  American,  was  The  Power  of  Sympathy,  published  anonymously  in 
Boston  in  1789.  It  is  a  chronicle  of  scandal,  disguised  as  a  moral  tale,  which 
was  long  attributed  to  Mrs.  Sarah  Wentworth  Morton,  a  poetess  who  did 
not  deserve  to  be  discredited  by  the  reputation  of  being  the  author  of 
this  romance.  She  has  been  relieved  of  this  ascription,  however.2  It  may 
have  been  written  by  William  Hill  Brown,  but  in  any  event,  it  is  an  ab- 
surd book  told  by  means  of  letters  dealing  with  illicit  amours,  averted 
incest  and  suicide. 

1  Sec  R.  M.  Elias,  "The  First  American  Novel,"  Avier.  Lit.,  Vol.  12  (Jan.  1941), 
pp.  419-434.  The  Adventures  of  Alonzo,  has  been  reprinted,  cd.  T.  J.  McMahon,  with 
Intro,  by  R.  M.  Elias  (1943). 

2  Sec  detailed  discussion  of  the  question  of  the  authorship  in  the  present  writer's 
American  Fiction  (1936),  pp.  6-7.  Milton  Ellis  disposed  of  Mrs.  Morton's  authorship 
in  "The  Author  of  the  First  American  Novel,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  4  (Jan.  1933), 
pp.  359-368. 

190 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA 


191 


Of  far  better  quality  was  the  satiric  romance  of  the  picaresque,  Modern 
Chivalry:  or,  the  Adventures  of  Captain  Farrago  and  Teague  O' Regan, 
by  Hugh  Henry  Brackenridge,  which  appeared  in  installments  from  1792 
to  18 1 5.  In  obvious  imitation  of  Don  Quixote,  Brackenridge  starts  his 
hero,  Captain  Farrago,  from  his  home  in  western  Pennsylvania,  accom- 
panied by  his  Irish  "redemptioner"  or  servant,  and  brings  them  into  con- 
tact with  many  institutions  in  the  East.  They  are  all  satirized,  from  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  and  the  American  Philosophical  Society  to  a 
village  election,  through  Teague,  who  is  suspected  of  passing  himself  of! 
as  a  teacher  of  Greek,  or  as  a  philosopher,  and  who  narrowly  escapes 
being  sent  to  the  legislature  of  Pennsylvania.  The  professions  also  come 
in  for  their  share  of  satire.  Satire,  however  clever,  cannot  alone  keep  a 
novel  alive,  and  Brackenridge  uses  his  wide  experience  to  express  more 
directly  his  opinions  on  politics  and  life  in  general.  Though  born  in  Scot- 
land in  1748,  he  came  to  Pennsylvania  in  1753,  was  educated  at  the  College 
of  New  Jersey,  now  Princeton,  and  became  an  Army  chaplain,  a  play- 
wright, judge,  legislator  and  editor  before  his  death  in  18 16.  He  was  a 
patrician  democrat  who  saw  clearly  the  excesses  of  democracy,  but  be- 
lieved that  the  future  lay  Math  the  people  rather  than  with  the  oligarchy 
he  felt  inherent  in  the  government  by  institutions.  His  prophecy  that  the 
term  "Democratic-Republican,"  being  "equivocal,"  will  soon  give  way 
to  "Democratic,"  came  true.  He  believed,  too,  in  the  future  of  the  West. 
"It  is  Tom,  Dick  and  Harry  in  the  woods  that  I  want  to  read  my  book," 
he  said,  and  the  fresh  air  of  the  pioneering  life  invigorates  Modern  Chiv- 
alry, which  was  popular  for  fifty  years. 

Of  some  interest  as  a  combination  of  the  novel  of  adventure,  the  senti- 
mental novel  of  intrigue  and  the  fiction  of  social  reform,  is  Gilbert  Im- 
lay's  The  Emigrants,  etc:  or,  The  History  of  an  Expatriated  Family, 
Drawn  from  Real  Characters,  Written  in  America  (1793).  Imlay  was 
born  in  this  country  in  1754  and  fought  in  the  Revolution,  but  there  is 
some  doubt  whether  he  did  write  the  book  in  America.  It  was  published 
in  London  where  his  romantic  union  with  Mary  Wollstonecraft  brought 
him  into  notoriety.  The  novel  was  written  to  compare  the  American 
solution  of  social  problems  with  that  of  Great  Britain,  and  to  advocate 
divorce  and  the  rights  of  women.  It  is  laid  mostly  in  or  near  Pittsburgh, 
but  Louisville,  Philadelphia  and  England  share  in  the  honor  of  being  its 

background.  It  deals  with  the  adventures  of  the  T n  family,  who  leave 

England,  to  mend  their  fortunes  in  America.  The  novel  is  absurd;  the 
characters  are  merely  types,  and  logical  motives  are  absent.  The  picture 
of  a  social  paradise,  laid  in  the  wilderness,  which  is  outlined  in  the  third 
volume,  may  have  influenced  some  of  the  social  reformers,  like  William 
Godwin. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  discuss  here  the  many  sentimental  romances  which 
followed  The  Power  of  Sympathy.  They  were  produced  by  women 


1 92  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

whose  names  were  usually  hidden  under  the  disguises  of  "A  Young  Lady" 
of  some  locality,  and  they  are  imitative  of  British  fiction  and  are  as  feeble 
in  characterization  as  they  are  absurd  in  style.  One  novelist,  however, 
must  be  mentioned,  on  account  of  the  extraordinary  popularity  of  her 
work,  due  to  her  really  remarkable  inventive  power.  Susanna  Haswell 
Rowson  was  born  in  England,  came  to  Boston  in  1769  with  her  father,  a 
British  officer,  and  when  he  was  deported  in  1777  she  returned  to  Eng- 
land, married,  then  began  to  write  novels.  She  became  an  actress  and 
coming  to  Philadelphia  in  1793  to  join  Wignell's  Company,  she  remained 
there  or  in  Boston,  conducting  a  girls'  school  until  her  death  in  1824.  Her 
most  successful  novel,  Charlotte  Temple,  was  written  in  England  in  1791, 
but  is  laid  partly  in  New  York  City,  where  Charlotte  died,  the  victim  of 
seduction  by  a  British  officer  who  lured  her  from  her  home  in  England 
under  promise  of  marriage.  The  novel  ran  through  161  editions.3  Of  her 
novels  written  in  America  the  most  interesting  are  the  Trials  of  the  Hu- 
man Heart  (1795),  a  picture  of  the  miseries  heaped  upon  and  surmounted 
by  the  heroine,  Meriel  Howard,  with  an  adroitness  that  challenges  our 
wonder;  Reuben  and  Rachel  (1798),  which  proceeds  without  hesitation 
from  Columbus  to  the  twins  who  give  the  title  to  the  novel  and  who  ar- 
rive in  Philadelphia  in  1700;  and  Sarah:  or,  The  Exemplary  Wife  (1804) 
which  reflected  her  own  experiences,  including  the  admission  of  her 
husband's  natural  son  to  her  own  home.  Mrs.  Rowson  has  this  signifi- 
cance, notwithstanding  her  faults,  that  she  was  one  of  the  earliest  to  por- 
tray the  virtuous  woman  adventuress,  no  longer  merely  receptive,  but 
possessing  her  own  courage  and  resourcefulness.  Mrs.  Rowson's  one 
surviving  play,  Slaves  in  Algiers,  produced  in  Philadelphia  in  1794,  has  a 
refreshing  liveliness. 

If  these  novels  were  to  be  taken  as  a  picture  of  life  in  America,  every 
"unprotected  female'1  was  at  the  mercy  of  a  seducer  who  was  rich  and 
ruthless.  Their  models  were  clearly  the  British  sentimental  novel  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  with  its  basis  in  the  superiority  of  the  male,  and  the 
worship  of  property.  But  one  of  the  most  popular,  The  Coquette  (1797), 
by  Hannah  Foster  was  founded  on  the  career  of  Elizabeth  Whitman  of 
Hartford,  so  that  there  was  some  reality  in  the  general  picture. 

The  beginnings  of  American  fiction  dealt,  therefore,  with  adventure, 
whether  among  the  perils  of  the  frontier,  the  prisons  of  Algiers,  or  the 
intrigues  of  domestic  life.  The  motives  were  the  universal  ones,  self- 
preservation,  love,  family  devotion  or  personal  honor,  and  that  willing- 
ness to  partake  vicariously  of  the  sins  or  sufferings  of  others  which  has 
made  the  fortunes  of  fiction.  Nearly  all  were  written  by  men  whose  pro- 
fessional life  made  the  novels  a  by-product  or  by  women  who  had  other 

vocations. 

*         #         * 

■"■  Sec  the  elaborate  bibliographical  study  of  Mrs.  Rowson  by  R.  W.  G.  Vail  (1933). 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  193 

A  change  in  the  significance  of  American  fiction  came  naturally  when 
our  first  man  of  letters  to  devote  himself  exclusively  to  the  writing  of 
fiction  or  essay  and  the  editing  of  a  periodical,  began  his  career.  Charles 
Brockden  Brown  was  born  in  Philadelphia,  January  17,  177 1,  of  good 
Quaker  ancestry.  He  was  of  the  same  intense  introspective  nature  as  that 
with  which  he  endows  his  heroes,  and  this  tendency  was  strengthened  by 
his  frail  health  which  caused  him  to  take  solitary  walks  in  the  suburbs 
of  Philadelphia,  brooding  over  the  strange  creations  who  live  in  his  fiction, 
and  planning  epics  upon  the  discovery  of  America,  or  the  conquests  of 
Peru  and  Mexico,  before  Irving  and  Prescott.  These  projects  did  not 
materialize,  but  they  show  his  interest  in  native  themes  and  reveal  as  do 
his  many  later  fragmentary  works,  that  Brown's  ability  to  plan  exceeded 
his  power  to  execute.  He  studied  law  but  did  not  practice  it,  and  de- 
termined upon  literature  as  a  career,  when  such  a  profession  did  not  as 
yet  exist.  Philadelphia  was  the  center  of  intellectual  life  in  the  United 
States  and  even  although  we  know  little  of  the  details  of  his  early  life, 
Brown  could  hardly  have  remained  uninfluenced  by  the  achievements 
of  Franklin,  William  Smith,  Francis  Hopkinson  and  Philip  Freneau.  He 
joined  and  became  the  leader  of  a  "Belles-Lettres  Club,"  which,  according 
to  William  Dunlap,  was  "probably  the  most  powerful  circumstance  in 
the  early  life  of  Brown  in  deciding  his  future  prospects  and  destiny."  4 
Brown  met  Dunlap  through  Elihu  Hubbard  Smith,  who  had  come  to 
study  medicine  at  the  College  of  Philadelphia,  and  who  was  himself  a 
poet  and  playwright.  The  three  became  intimate  friends,  and  Brown 
visited  New  York,  where  Smith  began  to  practise,  and  he  became  a  mem- 
ber of  the  "Friendly  Club,"  established  by  Dunlap,  Smith,  Theodore 
Dwight,  and  others  as  a  center  of  literary  interest.  Brown  practically 
lived  in  New  York  or  in  Perth  Amboy  from  1798  to  1801. 

He  had  begun  his  writing  in  Philadelphia  with  essays  like  "The  Rhapso- 
dist,"  which  were  published  in  The  Universal  Asylum  and  Columbian 
Magazine,  from  August  to  November,  1789,  interesting  mainly  as  em- 
phasizing his  love  of  solitude.  Brown's  first  complete  work,  Alcuin:  or  A 
Dialogue  on  the  Rights  of  Women,  was  published  in  March,  1798.  This 
essay  is  an  argument  for  reform  in  the  institution  of  marriage,  but  he 
was  not  able  to  suggest  a  substitute.  In  the  same  Weekly  Magazine  5  in 
which  he  reprinted  Alcuin,  he  expressed  in  a  letter,  signed  "Speratus,"  his 
belief  that  "to  the  story  telling  moralist  the  United  States  is  a  new  and 
untrodden  field"  and  that  European  models  should  be  employed  merely 
for  the  improvement  of  his  taste. 

In  his  four  important  novels,  Brown  sought  the  material  of  romance 

4  See  William  Dunlap,  Life  of  Brovm  (1815),  Vol.  1,  pp.  16-31,  for  an  extended 
discussion  of  this  club,  including  a  long  paper  on  the  different  forms  of  knowledge, 
which  Brown  read  to  his  fellow  members. 

5  Vol.  1  (March  17,  1798),  p.  202. 


i94  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  the  remarkable  incidents  of  contemporary  life.  In  Wieland  (1798)  he 
used  an  actual  occurrence.  A  farmer  in  Tomhannock,  New  York,  believed 
that  he  was  commanded  by  two  angels  to  "destroy  his  idols,"  and  he 
killed  his  wife  and  children  and  in  an  attempt  to  kill  his  sister,  he  was 
captured  and  imprisoned  as  a  lunatic.  Using  this  fact  merely  as  a  sugges- 
tion, Brown  built  up  a  powerful  story  of  the  influence  of  the  abnormal 
in  making  a  man  ready  to  receive  an  impression  of  supernatural  authority. 
Wieland's  father  had  been  killed,  apparently  by  a  supernatural  power, 
because  he  had  failed  to  obey  a  mysterious  command.  Wieland  lives 
peaceably,  however,  with  his  wife  and  children  and  with  his  sister,  Clara, 
who  tells  the  story.  The  disturbing  force  comes  in  the  form  of  a  voice 
which  is  heard  not  only  by  Wieland,  but  also  by  Clara  and  Henry  Pleyell, 
her  lover.  It  seems  to  come  from  a  harmful  spirit  who  convinces  Pleyell 
that  she  has  illicit  relations  with  a  certain  Carwin,  and  yet  it  saves  her  from 
harm.  Wieland  broods  so  deeply  on  the  messages  that  when  the  order 
comes  to  kill  his  wife  and  children  he  obeys  but  Clara  is  saved  at  the  last 
moment  by  the  voice  which  had  led  him  into  crime.  Carwin  is  a  ventrilo- 
quist and  has  used  his  power  to  secure  Clara,  who  escapes  him.  There 
is  a  certain  amount  of  irritation  in  having  the  powerful  struggle  in  Wie- 
land's soul  explained  by  ventriloquism,  but  Brown  builds  up  to  his  climax 
in  a  masterly  way  and  we  do  not  suspect  the  explanation  until  it  comes. 
Brown  also  treated  the  theme  of  ventriloquism  in  the  uncompleted  Car- 
win  the  Biloquist,  published  in  his  own  Philadelphia  periodical,  The 
Literary  Magazine  and  American  Register  in  1803  and  1805,  but  accord- 
ing to  Dunlap,  written  in  1798.  It  deals  with  the  early  life  of  Carwin. 

The  best  of  Brown's  novels  was  the  second,  Arthur  Mervyn,  which 
began  to  appear  in  June,  1798,  in  the  Weekly  Magazine  of  Philadelphia, 
but  remained  a  fragment  until  it  was  published  in  two  volumes  in  1799 
and  1800.  The  story  is  told  partly  by  Arthur  Mervyn,  a  boy  of  nineteen, 
and  partly  by  a  Dr.  Steevens  who  finds  Mervyn  on  his  doorstep,  stricken 
with  yellow  fever.  This  epidemic,  which  Brown  had  escaped  in  Phila- 
delphia in  1793  but  from  which  he  had  suffered  in  1798  in  New  York,  is 
the  background,  painted  with  a  realism  which  is  not  only  powerful  in 
itself  but  which  also  creates  an  atmosphere  of  confusion  in  which  char- 
acters are  freed  from  the  strict  logic  of  events.  This  is  helpful  in  the  es- 
tablishment of  a  mood  of  horror  that  destroys  the  usual  relations  of  life, 
and  fits  well  into  the  form  of  romance  in  which  Brown's  imagination  has 
free  play.  Paradoxically,  the  realism  keeps  the  highly  idealized  characters 
from  becoming  too  abnormal,  and  there  is  a  definite  atmosphere  of 
Philadelphia  of  that  period.  Arthur  Mervyn  has  many  adventures,  mainly 
in  connection  with  a  certain  Welbeck,  who  has  betrayed,  robbed  or 
murdered  nearly  all  his  acquaintances,  but  Mervyn  remains  uncontamin- 
ated  and  preserves,  somewhat  to  the  irritation  of  the  reader,  his  pain- 
fully virtuous  attitude  toward  life.  Social  reform  was  in  the  air  and  Arthur 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  i95 

Mervyn  has  some  resemblance  to  Caleb  Williams,  the  hero  of  William 
Godwin's  novel,  and  Godwin  has  indicated  in  the  preface  to  his  novel  of 
Mandeville  that  the  influence  was  mutual.  Much  as  Brown  was  concerned 
with  the  rights  of  women,  the  relations  of  Afervyn  with  the  women  who 
love  him  are  the  weakest  parts  of  the  book.  What  holds  our  interest 
through  the  two  volumes  is  the  sheer  audacity  of  the  imagination  of 
Brown,  who  secures  our  sympathy  for  A4ervyn  and  keeps  it.  When 
Mervyn  fights,  it  is  not  with  the  unconquerable  sword  of  the  romantic 
hero  of  the  Gothic  romance.  Mervyn's  contests  are  those  of  a  more 
modern  period;  he  overcomes  his  adversaries  with  his  brains,  and  our  ad- 
miration follows  him  through  his  victories  over  ruffians  who  could  have 
demolished  him.  The  central  character  of  this  novel  remains  longest  in  our 
memories  of  Browrn's  creations,  and  when  Hawthorne  placed  the  bust  of 
his  creator  in  his  "Hall  of  Fantasy,"  with  Homer,  Shakespeare,  Fielding 
and  Scott,  it  was  as  "the  author  of  Arthur  Mervyn"  G  While  Arthur 
Mervyn  was  not  yet  completed,  Ormond  (1799)  had  been  begun.  The 
yellow  fever  in  Philadelphia  is  again  made  the  background,  but  the  pesti- 
lence is  employed  largely  as  a  means  of  increasing  the  difficulties  of 
Constantia  Dudley,  the  heroine.  She  is  the  best  of  his  heroines,  and  meets 
her  many  difficulties  with  courage  and  capacity.  Ormond,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  a  bundle  of  oddities  and  his  pursuit  of  Constantia,  who  ultimately 
kills  him  in  defence  of  her  honor,  hardly  arouses  any  suspense  as  to  its 
success.  Brow7n  tried  to  draw  a  superman  in  Ormond,  but  failed. 

In  Edgar  Huntly  (1801)  Brown  made  use  of  sleepwalking  as  a  device 
which  makes  possible  some  of  the  most  effective  scenes.  Huntly  tells  his 
own  story  and  his  description  of  his  discovery  that  Clithero,  a  mysterious 
minor  character,  is  a  sleepwalker,  is  not  just  an  interlude  but  is  an  explana- 
tion of  the  remorse  of  this  man,  whose  history  is  a  romance  in  itself. 
Huntly  finds  himself  at  the  bottom  of  a  pit,  and  Brown's  skill  is  such  that 
we  do  not  realize  for  some  time  that  he  also  is  a  sleepwalker.  The  method 
by  which  a  sense  of  imprisonment  and  of  suffering  from  thirst  are  made 
vivid  is  the  effective  use  of  denials  of  natural  conditions  and  surroundings 
that  Poe  used  in  The  Fit  and  the  Fendulum.  Huntly's  escape  is  made  the 
occasion  of  his  revenge  upon  the  Indians,  a  race  that  had  killed  his  parents. 
They  are  pictured  as  bloodthirsty  and  at  least  one  character,  "Old  Deb," 
is  painted  in  real  colors. 

Clara  Howard  (1801)  and  Jane  Talbot  (1801)  are  not  of  the  same 
calibre  as  the  four  other  completed  novels.  They  deal  with  love  intrigues 
for  which  Brown  had  little  talent.  More  interesting  are  the  fragments  in 
which  his  power  of  visualizing  a  real  or  imaginary  past  is  tested.  Thessa- 
lonlca"  is  a  vivid  picture  of  the  massacre  of  the  people  of  a  city  by  the 
Roman  ruler,  about  400  a.d.,  the  tragedy  having  its  cause  in  a  trivial 

,J  The  Pioneer  (Boston,  Feb.  1843),  p.  50.  Ed.  Sculley  Bradley  (1947). 
7  Monthly  Magazine,  Vol.  1  (May,  1799),  pp.  99-117- 


i96  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AJV1ERICAN  PEOPLE 

disturbance.  Like  Hawthorne,  Brown  left  unfinished  several  romances 
dealing  with  different  treatments  of  one  similar  theme.  Sketches  of  a 
History  of  Carsol,  Sketches  of  the  Carrils  and  Ormes,  and  Memoirs  of 
Stephen  Calvert  deal  with  the  fortunes  of  an  ancient  house,  sometimes 
antedating  the  Roman  occupation  of  Britain.  Brown's  theories  of  govern- 
ment have  free  play  here,  for  the  noble  or  royal  personage  rules  through 
his  personality,  and  has  immense  riches,  which  enable  him  to  build  struc- 
tures of  great  beauty  in  which  Brown's  own  knowledge  of  architecture 
is  employed.  In  the  first  of  these  fragments,  Brown  secures  a  sense  of 
reality  by  references  to  real  sovereigns  in  a  European  country  as  con- 
temporary. 

That  Brown  did  not  publish  any  of  these  "Sketches"  was  due  probably 
to  his  theory  of  the  proper  material  for  an  American  novelist.  In  his 
preface  to  Edgar  Hnntly  he  said: 

One  merit  the  writer  may  at  least  claim;  that  of  calling  forth  the  passions  and 
engaging  the  sympathy  of  the  reader,  by  means  hitherto  unemploved  by 
preceding  authors.  Puerile  superstition  and  exploded  manners;  Gothic  castles 
and  chimeras,  are  the  materials  usually  employed  for  this  end.  The  incidents 
of  Indian  hostility,  and  the  perils  of  the  western  wilderness  are  far  more  suit- 
able; and  for  a  native  of  America  to  overlook  these  would  admit  of  no  apology. 

Brown's  most  striking  qualities  are  his  inventive  power,  his  descriptive 
and  narrative  ability,  his  insight  into  the  moods  of  human  beings  laboring 
under  powerful  emotions,  and  the  skill  with  which  he  makes  even  the 
impossible  seem  probable.  Critics  who  speak  of  the  actions  of  his 
characters  as  impossible  must  be  careful.  The  present  writer  had  called 
attention  to  Huntly's  swimming  of  the  Delaware  River  after  his  long- 
fatiguing  flight  as  absurd  until  he  visited  the  locality  and  found  the  river 
so  shallow  that  it  took  only  a  few  strokes  to  cross  it! 

Brown's  characters  are  the  concrete  representatives  of  his  own  love 
of  duty,  and  the  highest  reward  he  gives  them  is  the  securing  of  their 
own  self-respect.  He  imbued  them  deliberately  with  curiosity,  which  is 
an  active  force,  and  therefore  helps  the  story  on.  He  called  it  in  Alcuin, 
"the  best  principle  in  human  nature."  They  are  independent  souls,  also, 
indifferent  to  criticism,  public  or  private.  It  is  not  necessary  to  account 
for  Brown's  attitude  by  any  foreign  influence.  He  was  born  two  years 
before  Lexington  and  he  grew  up  in  the  city  where  independence  was 
announced,  and  in  the  state  which  was  the  second  of  the  thirteen  to 
ratify  the  Constitution. 

The  most  serious  defect  in  Brown's  fiction  is  a  lack  of  unity  in  con- 
struction, caused  first  by  the  wealth  of  his  material,  often  sufficient  for 
three  novels  in  one;  second,  by  his  connection  with  periodical  literature. 
He  apparently  began  to  publish  his  novels  in  the  Weekly  Magazine  or 
the  Monthly  Magazine  before  he  had  completed  them,  and  he  tried  to 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  197 

end  each  installment  with  a  dramatic  scene.  His  style,  vivid  in  description 
and  stirring  in.  narrative,  is  hampered  in  his  dialogue  by  the  delusion  which 
he  shared  with  other  novelists  of  the  time,  even  Jane  Austen,  that  a  virtu- 
ous character  should  be  endowed  with  a  lofty  vocabulary. 

Of  Brown's  influence  upon  later  writers  there  is  direct  testimony. 
Thomas  Love  Peacock,  after  stating  that  "Brown's  four  novels,  Schiller's 
Robbers  and  Goethe's  Faust  were  the  strongest  influences  upon  Percy 
Shelley,"  continues,  "Nothing  so  blended  itself  with  the  structure  of  his 
interior  mind  as  the  creations  of  Brown.  Nothing  stood  so  clearly  before 
his  thoughts  as  a  perfect  combination  of  the  justly  ideal  and  possibly 
real  as  Constantia  Dudley."  8  Mary  Wollstonecraft  Shelley  places  in  the 
mouth  of  her  imaginary  narrator  in  The  Last  Man,  who  describes  the 
plague  which  destroys  the  human  race,  this  tribute:  "While  every  mind 
was  full  of  dismay  at  its  effects,  a  craving  for  excitement  had  led  us  to 
peruse  DeFoe's  account,  and  the  masterly  delineations  of  the  author  of 
Arthur  Mervyn"  9 

Brown  married  in  1804  Elizabeth  Linn  of  New  York.  His  last  years  were 
spent  in  editing  his  Literary  Magazine  which  lasted  until  1808,  and  his 
annual  publication,  The  American  Register.  He  contributed  prose  and 
verse  to  Dennie's  Portfolio  and  took  part  in  the  political  discussions  of 
the  day,  upon  the  Federalist  side.  He  died  on  February  22,  18 10,  of 
tuberculosis. 

His  position  rests  upon  his  four  important  novels,  but  those  who 
neglect  his  fragmentary  excursions  into  imaginary  history  miss  something 
interesting  and  original.  Without  any  strong  love  interest  in  his  fiction 
and  with  a  scornful  rejection  of  the  salacious  details  of  the  sentimental 
novels  of  his  day,  Brown  touched  the  abnormal  with  dignity  and  depicted 
with  sympathy  and  insight  the  human  soul  tempted  to  commit  crime  or 
animated  by  remorse  for  crime  already  committed.  In  these  he  pointed 
forward  to  Poe  and  Hawthorne. 


From  its  nature,  drama  demands  a  different  treatment  from  other 
kinds  of  literature.  It  cannot  be  judged  as  they  can,  solely  from  its 
written  form,  for  in  its  actual  presentation  on  the  stage,  it  is  a  combina- 
tion of  playwright,  actor,  director  and  designers,  and  the  work  of  the 
creative  artist  has  had  to  submit,  for  good  or  ill,  to  the  qualities  or  limita- 
tions of  the  interpretive  artist.  Fortunately  some  of  our  early  plays  have 
been  revived,  in  recent  years,  and  the  critic  does  not  have  to  depend  on 
contemporary  judgments,  particularly  untrustworthy  in  the  drama. 

The  drama  in  these  early  days  shared  the  unsympathetic  attitude  of  a 

8  Memoir  of  Percy  Bysshe  Shelley  in  Works,  ed.  by  H.  Cole  (1875),  Vol.  3,  pp. 
409-410. 

9  The  Last  Man,  by  the  author  of  Frankenstein,  Vol.  2,  p.  208. 


1 98  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

large  share  of  the  public  toward  the  theatre.  The  old  American  Company, 
which  had  left  the  country  in  1775,  had  to  disguise  its  productions  as 
celebrations  of  liberty  or  as  moral  essays  when  it  resumed  production  in 
New  York,  Philadelphia,  Baltimore  or  Annapolis,  the  chief  circuit  of 
those  days.  The  laws  against  the  theatre  were  not  repealed  in  Pennsyl- 
vania until  1789,  and  in  Boston  until  1790. 

None  of  these  revivals  of  early  plays  have  had  more  satisfying  results 
than  those  which  placed  our  second  play  and  first  comedy  upon  the 
modern  stage.  The  Contrast,  by  Royall  Tyler,  has  been  played  success- 
fully by  nearly  every  college  and  little  theatre  of  importance. 

The  author,  Royall  Tyler,  was  born  in  Boston  July  18,  1757.  He 
graduated  from  Harvard  College  in  1776,  and  served  in  1778  as  aide  to 
General  Sullivan  with  the  rank  of  major,  in  the  attack  on  Newport.  I 
From  1780  he  practiced  law  and  became  engaged  to  be  married  to  Abigail, 
daughter  of  John  Adams,  but  the  match  was  broken  off  by  her  parents, 
on  the  ground  that  he  was  "too  gay."  It  may  have  been  that  John  Adams 
detected  an  undue  fondness  for  society  in  Tyler;  certainly  Tyler  j 
possessed  an  unusual  understanding  of  social  values. 

When  Shays'  Rebellion  broke  out  he  rejoined  the  Army,  and  in  pursuit 
of  some  of  the  fugitives,  Major  Tyler  came  to  New  York  City  in  March, 
1787.  Here  he  visited  the  theatre  constantly,  probably  for  the  first  time, 
and  became  acquainted  with  Thomas  Wignell,  the  low  comedian  of  the 
American   Company,   for  whom   he   wrote   The   Contrast,   which   was 
performed  successfully  at  the  John  Street  Theatre,  April  16,  1787.  The 
social  taboo  in  New  England  caused  him  to  publish  the  play  in  1790  as  1 
by  "A  Citizen  of  the  United  States."  The  play  was  performed  in  Phila-  i 
delphia,  Baltimore,  Boston,  Charleston  and  Richmond.  Tyler  knew  he  \ 
was  doing  something  new,  for  the  prologue  begins: 

Exult,  each  patriot  heart!— this  night  is  shewn 

A  piece,  which  we  may  fairly  call  our  own; 

Where  the  proud  titles  of  "My  Lord!  Your  Grace!" 

To  humble  Mr.  and  plain  Sir  give  place.  • 

Our  author  pictures  not  from  foreign  climes 

The  fashions,  or  the  follies  of  the  times; 

But  has  confin'd  the  subject  of  his  work 

To  the  gay  scenes— the  circles  of  New  York.10 

What  makes  the  comedy  important  are  the  characters,  which  in  com- 
petent hands,  fairly  live  upon  the  stage.  Jonathan,  the  attendant  upon 
Colonel  Manly,  became  the  prototype  of  the  stage  Yankee,  a  type  that 
has  lived  even  until  today  in  motion  picture  and  radio.  The  scene  in  which 
Jonathan  goes  to  the  play  unwittingly  and  thinks  he  is  looking  into  the 
next  house  is  as  good  low  comedy  as  can  be  found.  But  the  significance 

l0Text  is  from  the  original  edition  (1790). 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  199 

of  the  comedy  is  far  greater  than  any  one  of  its  characters.  From  the 
moment  the  curtain  rises  upon  Charlotte  and  Letitia,  two  sophisticated 
young  women  who  might  be  seen  without  much  change  at  a  party  of 
today,  Tyler  paints  a  portrait  of  real  people  moving  in  society  which 
is  of  more  value  to  the  social  historian  than  pages  of  documentary  evi- 
dence. Nothing  is  more  difficult  to  describe  correctly  than  social  life 
of  the  past,  but  this  contrast  between  the  American  officer  and  gentleman, 
Colonel  Manly,  Charlotte's  brother,  and  Dimple,  the  imitator  of  British 
affectations,  can  bring  the  manners  of  the  last  decades  of  the  eighteenth 
century  before  us  as  though  we  were  present.  Charlotte's  description 
of  the  behavior  of  her  set  at  the  theatre  is  startling  in  its  modern  flavor. 
The  play  is  not  perfect,  of  course,  but  it  is  not  amateurish,  as  certain 
historians  who  have  not  seen  it  have  indicated.  It  meets  the  acid  test  of 
drama,  that  when  the  playwright's  characters  are  brought  to  life  on  a 
stage  by  competent  actors  under  skillful  direction,  they  seem  to  take 
matters  into  their  own  hands.  Tyler's  other  acted  plays,  May  Day  in 
Town:  or,  New  York  in  an  Uproar  (1787),  and  Georgia  Spec:  or,  Land 
in  the  Moon  (1797),  a  comedy  dealing  with  the  mania  for  speculation 
in  the  Yazoo  country,  have  not  survived.  His  surviving  unacted  dramas 
onlv  recently  published,  consist  of  an  amusing  comedy,  The  Island  of 
Barrataria,  (sic)  based  upon  the  Second  Part  of  Don  Quixote,  in  which 
Tvler  satirized  the  verbiage  of  his  own  profession,  and  three  dramas  on 
Biblical  subjects,  The  Origin  of  the  Feast  of  Purim,  Joseph  and  His 
Brethren  and  The  judgment  of  Solomon.  These  are  written  in  flexible 
blank  verse  with  some  good  characterizations.  Tyler's  dramatic  powrer 
was  also  revealed  in  his  Yankee  in  London  (1809),  a  series  of  letters  sup- 
posed to  be  written  from  London,  which  deceived  the  readers  of  that  day. 
Tyler  was  constantly  writing  verse  and  prose  for  periodicals,  much  of 
it  anonymously.  He  and  Joseph  Dennie  formed  a  literary  partnership 
"The  Shop  of  Colon  and  Spondee"  and  the  pieces  signed  "Spondee"  in 
The  Eagle,  in  1 794;  in  the  Fanners'  Museum  and  probably  in  the  Portfolio 
are  his.  They  are  clever  and  have  their  value  in  the  description  of  customs 
and  their  Federalist  opinions.  Tyler's  long  reflective  poem,  The  Chestnut 
Tree,  written  in  1824,  but  not  printed  until  193 1,  is  again  of  interest  in  its 
description  of  village  life.  Tyler's  one  novel  is  a  bright  spot  among  the 
early  fiction.  In  the  preface  to  The  Algerine  Captive:  or,  The  Life  and 
Adventures  of  Dr.  Updike  Underhill  (1797),  Tyler  calls  attention  to  the 
great  increase  in  the  novels,  especially  in  the  interior  towns,  during  a 
supposed  absence  of  the  author  for  seven  years.  The  last  decade  of  the 
eighteenth  century  was  certainly  a  time  when  strict  rules  for  reading 
for  instruction  only  were  being  broken,  even  if  romances  were  not  yet 
wholly  respectable.  Tyler's  novel  was  supposedly  written  by  a  native 
of  New  England  who,  after  studying  medicine,  is  captured  while  on  a 
voyage  by  the  Algerines.  It  was  suggested  by  a  real  experience  of  Tyler's 


2oo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

uncle  who  was  never  rescued,  and  the  indignation  of  the  author  is  directed 
against  all  forms  of  slavery.  Tyler  rose  to  be  Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Vermont  and  died  in  Brattleboro,  August  26,  1826.  The  Contrast 
must  have  been  popular  as  a  reading  play,  for  only  six  copies  remain.  On 
the  stage  it  inspired  the  first  professional  playwright  to  begin  his  career. 


It  was  a  happy  circumstance  that  our  first  professional  novelist, 
Brockden  Brown,  and  our  first  professional  dramatist,  William  Dunlap, 
should  have  been  close  friends.  Dunlap  has  borne  testimony  in  his  life 
of  Brown  to  their  mutual  encouragement,  and  in  both  cases  it  was  needed. 
Dunlap  faced  not  only  the  moral  prejudice  against  the  theatre,  but  also 
the  jealousies  of  actors  and  managers,  and  the  lack  of  any  financial  reward 
for  the  playwright.  Yet  his  love  for  his  craft,  shining  through  his  Diary 
and  his  History  of  the  American  Theatre  (1832)  is  typical  of  the  peren- 
nial spirit  of  the  stage.  He  was  born  in  Perth  Ambov,  New  Jersey, 
February  19,  1766,  gaining  his  first  love  for  the  theatre  in  1777  by  seeing 
the  plays  given  by  the  British  officers  in  New  York.  His  right  eye  was 
destroyed  by  a  blow  in  1778  but,  undismayed,  he  proceeded  with  his 
determination  to  become  a  playwright  and  a  painter.  His  visit  to  London 
to  study  under  West  is  discussed  elsewhere.11  It  gave  him  an  opportunity 
to  see  the  best  acting  of  the  time  in  England. 

When  he  returned  in  August,  1787  the  success  of  The  Contrast  stimu- 
lated him  to  write  a  comedy,  which  brought  him  into  contact  with  Lewis 
Hallam  and  John  Henry,  the  managers  of  the  American  Company. 
Even  if  it  was  not  produced,  it  taught  him  to  shape  his  plays,  he  says, 
to  the  demands  of  the  manager's  wife!  In  consequence  his  first  play  to 
be  produced,  The  Father:  or,  American  Shandyism,  was  put  on  in  New 
York' on  September  7,  1789,  with  success.  Like  Tyler,  he  felt  like  a 
pioneer,  for  in  the  prologue  he  said: 

The  comick  muse,  pleas'd  with  her  new  abode, 
Steps  forth  in  sportive,  tho  in  moral  mode; 
Proud  of  her  dwelling  in  our  new  made  nation 
She's  set  about  a  serious  reformation 
For  faith,  she'd  almost  lost  her  reputation. 

The  Father  suggests,  in  the  subtitle,  the  influence  of  Sterne  and  the 
central  character,  Colonel  Duncan,  who  straightens  out  the  complications 
in  the  lives  of  his  two  nieces  and  his  son,  is  provided  with  an  amusing 
servant  to  extol  his  virtues.  The  play  was  revised  in  1806  as  The  Father 
of  an  Only  Child  and  this  version  when  it  was  revived  in  1927, 12  proved 

11  Chapter  28. 

12  By  the  Columbia  Laboratory  Players,  New  York,  Oct.  22,  1927. 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  201 

to  be  a  spirited  if  conventional  play.  The  best  way  to  estimate  its  merits 
is  to  compare  it  with  The  Power  of  Sympathy,  published  in  the  same 
year. 

Dunlap  wrote  an  interlude,  Darby's  Return,  bringing  back  to  Ireland 
that  popular  character  who  told  of  his  wanderings  in  America.  Wash- 
ington, who  loved  the  theatre,  saw  the  performance  on  November  24, 
1789,  at  the  John  Street  Theatre  and  heard  himself  described  as: 

Not  a  great  man  sure 
For  poor  men  love  him,  just  as  he  was  poor. 

Dunlap's  tragedy,  Leicester,  as  it  was  first  called,  and  as  it  was  published 
in  1806,  was  played  as  The  Fatal  Deception:  or,  The  Progress  of  Guilt 
(April  24,  1794).  Twenty  years  before  Scott  wrote  Kenilvuorth,  Dunlap 
saw  the  dramatic  possibilities  of  one  of  Elizabeth's  favorites.  It  is  a 
stirring  if  unrelieved  tragedy,  in  blank  verse;  scenes  such  as  those  in  which 
Henry  Cecil  enters  Leicester's  room  to  murder  him  and  kills  his  brother, 
Dudley  Cecil,  instead,  or  in  which  Elwina  goes  mad  and  accuses  herself 
of  the  murder,  are  powerful  even  in  reading.  Dunlap  next  descended  to 
the  Gothic  melodrama,  and  based  his  blank  verse  play  Fontainville  Abbey 
(February  16,  1795)  upon  Mrs.  RadclifTe's  Romance  of  the  Forest.  He 
contributed  some  original  elements  to  the  drama,  but  nothing  important 
could  be  expected  from  such  a  source.  Better  and  more  successful  was 
The  Archers:  or,  The  Mountaineers  of  Switzerland,  &  play  based  upon 
the  career  of  William  Tell  (April  18,  1796).  It  is  called  an  opera,  the 
music  being  by  Benjamin  Carr,  and  it  may  have  been  inspired  by  the 
general  interest  in  liberty  of  all  kinds. 

The  quarrels  in  the  American  Company  became  so  intense  that  Dunlap 
accepted  a  proposition,  in  the  interests  of  peace,  to  become  the  manager. 
This  ultimately  led  to  his  ruin.  Wignell  had  seceded,  disgusted  with  the 
sharp  practice  of  the  old  management,  and  had  built  the  "New  Theatre1' 
on  Chestnut  Street  in  Philadelphia,  long  to  be  the  finest  in  the  country 
and  to  house  the  best  company  of  players.13 

The  Gothic  romance  again  provided  a  vehicle  for  the  new  manager. 
The  Mysterious  Monk  (October  31,  1796),  was  a  blank  verse  play  in 
which  a  vassal  revenges  himself  upon  his  feudal  lord  for  injuries  by  con- 
cealing his  wife  from  the  baron's  jealousy  until  he  has  paid  the  penalty 
for  his  cruelty.  It  was  published  as  Ribbemont:  or,  The  Feudal  Baron, 
in  1803. 

Dunlap  signalized  the  building  of  the  Park  Theatre  in  New  York  by 
producing  there  his  best  play,  Andre,  on  March  30,  1798.  It  is  also  the 
finest  play  upon  the  subject,  which   has   tempted  several   playwrights, 

13  See  the  interesting  description  of  this  theatre  by  a  French  traveller,  Moreau  de 
Saint-Mery,  Voyage  aux  Etats-Unis  de  VAmerique,  n93-l798>  ed.  by  S.  L.  Mims 
(New  Haven,  191 3). 


202  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

even  including  Clyde  Fitch,  to  failure.  The  drama  was  well  constructed, 
unity  being  achieved  by  accepting  the  capture  and  trial  as  accomplished 
and  concentrating  on  the  efforts  to  save  Andre,  through  the  appeal  of  his 
friend,  Captain  Bland  of  the  American  Army,  of  his  mother,  Mrs.  Bland, 
whose  husband,  Colonel  Bland,  is  in  Sir  Henry  Clinton's  hands,  threatened 
with  death  as  a  reprisal  for  Andre's  execution,  and  of  Honora,  Andre's 
supposed  fiancee.  These  appeals  all  break  down  before  the  iron  will  of 
Washington,   whose   blank   verse   speeches   are   more   natural   than   was 
usual  on  the  stage.  The  verse  throughout  is  of  a  high  quality,  flexible  I 
and  dramatic.  Many  suggestions  have  been  made  as  to  why  plays  about  | 
Major   Andre    have    not   succeeded    in   this    country,    but    the    failures  j 
illustrate  a  dramatic  law.  Andre  went  on  a  discreditable  errand  to  arrange  I 
for  Arnold's  treachery,  with  his  eyes  open.  Audiences  will  suffer  murder,  i 
adultery,  or  other  crimes  to  be  attributed  to  the  hero,  but  treachery  will  ! 
not  appeal,  either  in  the  traitor  himself  or  his  agent. 

Dunlap  is  always  frank  about  his  own  productions.  Even  though  the 
play  was  not  a  popular  success,  it  remains  one  of  the  best  of  the  early 
dramas.  Moreover  on  the  stage  it  never  really  had  a  chance,  for  the 
English  actor,  Thomas  Cooper,  who  had  joined  the  company  to  play  the 
part  of  Captain  Bland,  saw  no  reason  for  memorizing  a  play  by  an  I 
American  author  and  at  his  very  important  entrance  fell  on  the  neck  of 
Hodgkinson,  who  was  playing  Andre,  and  begged  him  to  tell  him  what 
to  say.  Furthermore,  the  scene  in  which  Bland  tears  the  cockade  out  of 
his  hat  and  hurls  it  on  the  stage,  in  his  rage  at  Washington's  refusal, 
almost  wrecked  the  play,  for  the  black  cockade  was  the  emblem  of  the 
Federalist  party,  and  Dunlap  had  to  rewrite  that  scene.  When  he  later 
revised  the  drama,  as  The  Glory  of  Columbia,  to  meet  the  demand  for 
patriotic  speeches,  the  unity  of  the  play  was  destroyed,  for  the  capture 
of  Andre  and  the  Battle  of  Yorktown  were  added  at  the  beginning  and 
end  of  the  play. 

The  Italian  Father,  which  Dunlap  considered  to  be  his  best  play,  was 
produced  April  15,  1799.  It  was  based  on  Thomas  Dekker's  The  Honest 
Whore,  and  the  main  plot  consisted  of  the  protecting  care  with  which  a 
father,  in  disguise,  watches  over  his  daughter,  whom  he  had  formerly 
cast  off.  Dunlap  was,  of  course,  only  following  the  example  of  the  Eliza- 
bethans in  adapting  older  material  to  his  own  use,  and  in  unity  of  con- 
struction, of  stage  effectiveness,  and  in  the  development  of  character 
he  compares  favorably  with  Dekker.  Dunlap  also  provided  a  completely 
new  subplot. 

Dunlap  varied  these  original  plays  with  adaptations  from  the  French 
and  German.  He  began  the  latter  with  a  domestic  drama  of  August  von 
Kotzebue,  The  Stranger,  (December  10,  1798),  a  tearful  play  which  was 
immensely  popular  for  many  years.  The  vogue  of  Kotzebue  illustrates 
the  growth  of  interest  in  the  middle  class  in  the  theatre,  on  the  Continent 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  203 

and  in  England,  and  Dunlap  took  advantage  of  growing  American  interest 
bv  a  class  which  was  forgetting  its  prejudice  against  the  stage.  He  con- 
tinued with  Lovers'  Vovus  (1799),  False  Shame  (1799),  which  "supported 
the  theatre  through  this  season,"  The  Virgin  of  the  Sim  (1800),  the  first 
of  Kotzehue's  plays  to  lav  the  scene  in  South  America,  Pizarro  in  Peru 
(1800),  and  Fraternal  Discord  (1800),  probably  the  best  of  the  domestic 
plays.  Dunlap  was  under  no  illusions  about  the  merits  of  Kotzebue,  which 
he  calls  "'Dutch  stufF1  but  it  saved  his  theatre  for  the  time.  The  worst  of 
this  invasion  of  the  German  domestic  drama  was  its  false  standard  of 
morals,  based  on  the  worship  of  rank  and  property. 

Dunlap's  principal  contribution  from  the  French  was  his  introduction 
of  the  melodrame.  During  the  last  two  decades  of  the  eighteenth  century 
the  theatre  of  the  boulevards  in  Paris  had  developed  this  very  popular 
form  out  of  the  pantomime  with  dialogue  and  the  scene  lyrique,  a  com- 
bination of  words  and  music.  Dunlap  began  with  The  Voice  of  Nature 
(1803),  an  adaptation  of  L.  C.  Caigniez,  but  he  depended  mainly  on  the 
dramas  of  Pixerecourt,  whose  Wife  of  Two  Husbands  he  put  on  in  1804. 
Pixerecourt  established  laws  for  the  melodrame  which  have  lasted  in  our 
own  melodrama  even  until  today.  There  must  be  four  essential  characters, 
the  unhappy  virtuous  heroine;  a  good  man,  her  protector;  the  villain;  and 
a  comic  character  who  aids  the  protector  in  rescuing  the  heroine.  In 
order  to  lull  the  critical  judgment  of  the  audience,  musical  accompani- 
ment is  called  in  to  excite  the  emotions  and  make  less  obvious  the  intensi- 
fication of  sentiment  and  the  exaggeration  of  passion  which  belong  to 
melodrama. 

Dunlap  closed  his  theatre  in  1805,  being  unable  to  combat  the  unfor- 
tunate conditions  of  that  time.  He  failed  honorably,  and  resumed  his 
profession  of  portrait  painting.  But  the  lure  of  the  theatre  was  the  stronger 
and  he  became  assistant  to  Cooper  in  his  management  of  the  Park  Theatre 
until  18 1 2  when  once  more  he  turned  to  miniatures,  varied  with  play 
writing.  His  patriotic  feeling  led  him  to  write  his  Yankee  Chronology 
in  1812,  celebrating  the  victory  of  the  Constitution  over  the  Guerriere, 
and  his  Battle  of  New  Orleans  (18 16).  His  last  play,  A  Trip  to  Niagara 
(1828),  introduced  five  caricature  types,  the  Yankee,  French,  English, 
Irish,  and  Negro,  found  in  earlier  and  many  later  plays. 

Dunlap  produced  fifty-three  plays,  twenty-nine  of  which  were  wholly 
or  partly  his  own.  Many  have  not  survived,  but  his  original  plays  show 
how  varied  were  his  talents.  The  comedy  of  social  life  in  The  Father, 
the  tragedy  of  romantic  history  in  Leicester,  of  American  history  in 
Andre,  the  national  play  in  Yankee  Chronology,  the  revivifying  of  earlier 
dramatic  impulse,  as  in  The  Italian  Father,  show  his  versatility,  and  the 
best  way  to  appreciate  his  merit  is  to  compare  him  with  the  playwrights 
then  writing  in  England.  He  never  thought  of  himself  as  a  poet,  yet  he 
could  write  flexible  dramatic  verse  when  British  poets  tried  to  put  epic 


2o4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

verse  upon  the  stage,  and  failed,  in  consequence.  He  gave  other  American 
playwrights  an  opportunity  when  the  lack  of  national  or  international 
copyright  made  theatrical  conditions  almost  impossible  for  them.  He  had 
the  soul  of  an  artist  and  the  courage  of  the  pioneer,  and,  in  those  days 
of  distrust  in  native  achievement,  he  believed  strongly  in  the  future  of 
art  of  all  kinds  in  a  democracy,  and  laid  the  foundation  for  it  with  his 
own  hopes  and  achievements. 


During  this  period  of  Dunlap's  management,  drama  continued  to  be 
written,  usually  as  a  by-product,  by  men  pursuing  other  careers.  David 
Humphreys'  Widow  of  Malabar  (.May  7,  1790),  produced  in  Philadel- 
phia, is  of  less  interest  than  his  Yankee  in  England,  which  he  wrote  for 
Dunlap,  but  which  was  produced  only  by  amateurs  in  18 14.  The  Yankee 
character  is  well  done  and  Humphreys  was  the  first  to  write  a  play  which 
took  the  Yankee  to  England.  Dunlap  produced  his  friend,  Elihu  Smith's, 
Edwin  and  Angelina  (December  19,  1796),  a  "robber  play."  Charles 
Jared  Ingersoll  of  Philadelphia  had  his  Edwy  and  Elgha,  a  blank  verse 
tragedy  of  real  merit,  performed  by  the  Philadelphia  Company  in  1801. 

The  most  elaborate  national  spectacle  was  the  anonymous  Americana: 
or,  A  New  Tale  of  the  Genii,  produced  in  Charleston,  February  9,  1796. 
The  main  motive  was  the  transplanting  of  Elutheria,  Genius  of  Liberty, 
from  England  to  America  in  order  to  become  the  companion  of  Ameri- 
cana, the  Genius  of  America.  The  verse  is  quite  impressive  and  the  love 
of  country,  so  hard  to  represent  on  the  stage,  is  presented  with  dignity 
and  power.  Elizabeth  Arnoid,  a  little  girl  of  eleven,  later  to  be  the  mother 
of  Edgar  Poe,  took  part. 


During  the  years  1805  to  1825  there  were  two  trends  in  the  drama, 
the  first  to  represent  native  topics  and  the  second,  to  derive  inspiration 
from  more  universal  themes.  James  Nelson  Barker,  born  in  Philadelphia 
June  17,  1784,  captain  of  the  Second  Artillery  in  the  War  of  18 12, 
mayor  of  Philadelphia,  collector  of  the  port,  and  later  comptroller  of  the 
treasury,  was  naturally  able  to  devote  only  a  portion  of  his  time  to  the 
drama.  He  wrote  only  ten  plays,  four  of  which  have  survived,  but  his  I 
achievement  must  be  judged  in  terms  of  its  quality  rather  than  its  quantity,  j 
His  account  of  his  own  work,  which  Dunlap  asked  him  to  prepare  for  his 
History  of  the  American  Theatre,  reveals  how  keenly  he  was  aware  of 
the  need  of  a  native  drama. 

His  first  acted  play,  Tears  and  Smiles,  was  put  on  by  the  fine  company 
at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre,  March  4,  1807,  and  was  successful,  not- 
withstanding  the  efforts  of  his  political  enemies  to  prevent  its  recurrence 
on   the  second   night.   Barker  quelled  the   incipient  mob,   probably  on  j 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  205 

account  of  his  reputation  as  a  duelist,  but  the  incident  was  only  one  of 
many  which  reflects  the  bitterness  of  party  feelings  in  those  days.  Tears 
and  Smiles  is  a  comedy  of  manners  laid  in  Philadelphia.  It  shows  the 
influence  of  The  Contrast,  for  the  hero  returns  from  the  naval  wars  with 
the  pirates  in  the  Mediterranean  to  circumvent  a  fop  and  win  the  heroine. 
Although  Barker  was  an  ardent  Democrat,  his  fop,  Fluttermore,  was  an 
imitator  of  French  fashions,  while  Dimple,  in  The  Contrast  was  an 
Anglomaniac.  Nathan  Yank,  inserted  at  the  request  of  the  first  Joseph 
Jefferson,  was  evidently  a  stage  success.  Barker  next  wrote  The  Embargo 
to  support  the  policy  of  President  Jefferson.  It  was  produced  March  16, 
1808,  but  has  not  survived. 

In  The  Indian  Frincess,  put  on  at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre,  April 
6,  1808,  Barker  wrote  the  first  surviving  play  on  the  romance  of  Poca- 
hontas, which  has  since  become  so  popular  in  drama  and  fiction.  It  was 
also  the  first  play  by  an  American,  containing  Indian  characters,  to  see 
the  stage.  On  the  opening  night  popular  dislike  of  Webster,  one  of  the 
singers  in  the  cast,  caused  a  riot  and  the  curtain  was  rung  down.  The 
Indian  Princess  however  became  popular,  being  played  in  all  the  principal 
cities.  It  was  also  produced  at  Drury  Lane,  London,  December  15,  1820, 
the  first  authenticated  instance  of  an  original  American  play  being 
produced  in  London  after  an  initial  performance  in  America.  Barker  took 
liberties  with  history,  of  course,  and  made  the  central  motive  the  love 
story  of  Pocahontas  and  John  Rolfe,  and  the  climax  the  saving  of  the 
colony  by  Pocahontas's  warning  and  her  leading  Lord  Delaware  to  the 
rescue  of  John  Smith  and  Rolfe  at  Powhatan's  banquet.  Barker  realized 
that  the  most  dramatic  incident  in  the  life  of  Pocahontas,  her  saving  of 
Smith's  life  when  Powhatan  had  ordered  his  men  to  beat  out  his  captive's 
brains  came  too  early  in  his  history  to  be  the  climax.  Barker  was  faced 
with  this  problem,  which  has  annoyed  every  playwright  who  dealt  with 
this  story,  and  also  with  the  question  of  the  stage  language  of  the  Indians. 
His  attempt  to  make  them  reproduce  their  rhythmic  utterance  was  not 
very  successful  and  when  Pocahontas  enters  upon  her  love  story  he 
makes  her  talk  blank  verse.  Barker  was  wise  in  this  choice,  for  Pocahontas 
tells  her  love  simply  and  tenderly,  through  the  language  of  a  dramatic 
poet,  whose  verse  was  not  inferior  to  that  of  any  rival  in  America  and 
to  few,  if  any,  then  writing  for  the  stage  in  England. 

Barker  combined  the  interest  of  a  well-known  poem  of  Walter  Scott 
with  the  national  feeling  in  18 12,  when  he  dramatized  Marmion,  put  on 
at  the  Park  Theatre,  New  York,  April  13,  18 12.  One  of  the  difficulties  of 
the  American  playwright  is  illustrated  by  the  fact  that  it  was  announced 
as  by  Thomas  Morton,  the  English  dramatist,  as  the  management  was 
afraid  to  risk  a  play  known  to  be  by  an  American.  Barker  used  Scott 
simply  as  a  background,  going  back  to  Hollinshed's  Chronicle  for  some 
of  the  characters,  and  adding  scenes  of  his  own.  The  most  effective  is  that 


2o6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

between  Marmion  and  King  James  IV  of  Scotland,  to  whom  Marmion 
comes  as  an  ambassador  from  Henry  VIII.  In  April,  1812,  the  feeling 
against  England,  on  account  of  the  impressment  of  our  seamen  and  the 
Orders  in  Council,  had  reached  a  high  tension.  King  James  protests 
against  the  actions  of  England  in  words  every  hearer  applied  to  the  situa- 
tion in  America.  When  Marmion  asks  for  time  to  consult  the  king  of 
England,   pleading: 

The  subject  may  have  been  most  intricate, 
Your  claims  involved  in  doubt. 

James  replies: 

Not  so— not  so- 
Simple  as  truth  they  were,  clear  as  the  sun. 
But  what  did  England  during  this  our  parley? 
While  thus  negotiating,  what  did  England? 
When,  trusting  in  your  faith,  resentment  slept, 
And  patience  stayed  your  tardy  reparation 
Of  wrongs  so  long  inflicted?  It  was  then- 
Even  in  days  of  truce!  I  burn  to  speak  it- 
Murder  and  pillage,  England's  constant  agents, 
Roamed  through  our  land,  and  harboured  in  our  bays! 
Our  peaceful  border  sacked,  our  vessels  plundered, 
Our  abused  liegemen  robbed,  enslaved  and  slaughtered. 
My  lord,  my  lord,  under  such  injuries, 
How  shall  a  free  and  gallant  nation  act? 
Still  lay  its  sovereignty  at  England's  feet- 
Still  basely  ask  a  boon  from  England's  bounty- 
Still  vainly  hope  redress  from  England's  justice? 
No!  by  our  martyred  fathers'  memories, 
The  land  may  sink— but,  like  a  glorious  wreck, 
'Twill  keep  its  colours  flying  to  the  last! 

The  play  held  the  stage  for  many  years,  E.  L.  Davenport  playing  in 
it  in  1848.  Between  April,  18 12,  and  January  1,  181 3,  when  the  play 
opened  in  Philadelphia,  war  had  been  declared  and  Barker  had  gone  to 
the  Canadian  border  as  captain  in  the  Second  Artillery  Regiment.  It 
must  have  been  a  memorable  night  at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre,  for 
when  King  James  finished  his  speech,  General  Barker,  the  author's  father, 
rose  in  his  box  and  waving  his  cane,  led  the  applause  that  rocked  the 
theatre,  rilled  with  an  audience  three  times  the  usual  number. 

The  Armourer's  Escape:  or,  Three  Years  at  Nootka  Sound,  played  in 
Philadelphia,  March  21,  18 17,  dramatized  the  struggle  for  the  Northwest 
territory,  and  had  the  distinction  of  providing  a  vehicle  for  the  actual 
hero  of  Nootka  Sound,  John  Jewitt,  who  acted  his  own  character!  The 
play  has  disappeared  but  the  scenario  reveals  a  most  extraordinary  series 
of  scenes. 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  207 

In  18 1 7  Barker  wrote  one  of  his  cleverest  comedies,  How  To  Try  a 
Lover,  not  produced  until  1836,  at  the  Arch  Street  Theatre  in  Philadel- 
phia, as  The  Court  of  Love.  It  is  a  bright,  quickly  moving  play,  with  a 
crisp  dialogue,  which  accompanies  the  picaresque  wanderings  of  the 
hero,  Carlos,  and  his  squire,  Pacomo,  through  Catalonia  in  the  thirteenth 
century,  concluding  with  an  amusing  trial  according  to  the  rule  of  the 
Court  of  Love,  a  medieval  custom.  It  was  based  on  La  Folie  Espagnole 
by  Pigault-Lebrun,  but  Barker  made  many  changes. 

Barker  found  a  theme  for  his  last  and  best  play  in  colonial  history. 
Superstition,  produced  first  at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre,  March  12, 
1824,  dramatized  the  Puritan  intolerance  and  its  delusion  concerning 
witchcraft.  On  the  stage,  the  interest  is  centered  during  most  of  the  play 
on  the  figure  of  Ravensworth,  the  village  clergyman,  who  vividly  per- 
sonifies the  clerical  tyranny  over  the  community  and  the  personal  tyranny 
over  his  daughter,  Mary,  whom  he  drives  to  madness  and  a  broken  heart. 
The  threads  are  woven  with  remarkable  skill  until  they  crush  the  love 
of  Mary  and  Charles  and  the  hope  of  Isabella,  his  mother,  whose  past  as 
the  mistress  of  King  Charles  rises  to  condemn  her  as  a  witch  in  the  eyes 
of  a  village  that  understands  nothing  but  their  prejudices.  Her  father, 
the  regicide,  comes  in  time  to  lead  the  villagers  against  the  Indians,  but 
too  late  to  save  her  or  his  grandson.  The  great  tragic  actress,  Mrs.  Duff, 
played  Mary,  and  did  it  so  well  that  she  outshone  Mrs.  Wood,  the 
manager's  wife,  who  played  Isabella,  and  according  to  Wemyss,  one  of 
the  cast,  the  play  was  in  consequence  taken  off.14  No  wonder  that  Barker 
retired  from  playwriting.  He  died  in  1858. 

For  his  History,  Dunlap  chose  another  playwright,  Mordecai  M.  Noah, 
to  write  an  account  of  his  work.  Noah  was  born  in  Philadelphia,  in  1785, 
and  occupied  various  public  offices  in  different  cities,  dying  in  New  York 
in  1 85 1.  He  began  with  his  Paul  and  Alexis:  or,  The  Orphans  of  the  Rhine, 
produced  in  Charleston  in  18 12,  an  adaptation  from  Pixerecourt.  His 
more  important  plays  dealt  with  American  themes.  She  Would  Be  a 
Soldier:  or,  The  Plains  of  Chippewa,  played  in  New  York  in  18 19,  cele- 
brated one  of  our  few  victories  in  the  campaign  of  18 14.  Marion:  or,  The 
Hero  of  Lake  George,  also  put  on  at  the  Park  Theatre,  has  its  background 
in  the  Battle  of  Saratoga.  Both  these  plays  were  popular  for  years,  and  in 
their  constant  appeal  to  the  sympathy  in  the  danger  of  the  hero  or  heroine, 
point  forward  to  the  moving  picture.  Noah's  dramas  reflect  the  appeal  of 
the  two  wars  to  public  interest.  Few  of  the  plays  dealing  with  the  naval 
victories  of  the  War  of  18 12  have  survived,  although  many  were  put  on 
the  stage.  The  Revolution  was  naturally  preferred,  but  in  a  brief  survey, 
only  one  can  be  mentioned.  Samuel  Woodworth  (1785-1842),  wrote  in 
The  Widow's  Son  (December  15,  1825),  a  well-constructed  play,  based 

14  See  F.  C.  Wemyss,  Twe?ity-Six  Years  of  the  Life  of  an  Actor  and  Manager 
(1847),  Vol.  1,  p.  88. 


2o8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

on  a  real  woman,  Margaret  Darby,  who  served  Washington  as  a  spy,  and 
led  Clinton  to  believe  she  was  helping  the  British  cause.  The  confusion 
of  the  latter  days  of  the  conflict  is  used  skillfully  to  permit  escapes  and 
other  incidents  that  make  it  one  of  the  best  dramas  of  the  Revolution. 
Woodworth  wrote  also  Lafayette:  or,  The  Castle  of  Olmutz,  in  1824, 
to  celebrate  Lafayette's  visit  to  America.  He  was  a  transition  writer  and 
recurs  in  the  next  period  of  the  drama. 


In  contrast  to  these  dramatists,  John  Howard  Payne  represents  the 
playwright-actor,  who  dealt  with  universal  rather  than  native  themes, 
and  who  left  this  country  because  he  could  not  make  a  living  through 
his  profession.  He  wTas  born  in  New  York  City,  June  9,  1791,  but  grew 
up  in  Boston,  where  he  haunted  the  Federal  Theatre  and  published,  with 
Woodworth,  a  little  newspaper.  It  is  fascinating  to  imagine  what  were  the 
conversations  which  must  have  taken  place  between  the  two  future  play- 
wrights and  authors  of  "Home  Sweet  Home"  and  "The  Old  Oaken 
Bucket." 

Payne's  desire  to  become  an  actor,  appalling  to  his  father,  caused  him 
to  be  sent  to  New  York  to  enter  a  mercantile  business.  He  published  here 
the  Thespian  Mirror,  a  paper  "to  promote  the  interests  of  the  American 
Drama."  Encouraged  by  William  Coleman,  editor  of  The  Evening  Post, 
Payne  had  his  first  play,  Julia:  or,  The  Wanderer  produced  on  February 
7,  1806,  at  the  Park.  It  is  a  domestic  melodrama,  remarkable  for  a  boy  of 
fourteen  to  write,  but  not  otherwise  of  importance.  Friends  sent  him 
to  Union  College,  but  he  left  it  in  1 808  and  made  his  debut  as  an  actor  in 
New  York  in  February,  1809,  playing  "Norval"  in  Home's  Douglas.  He 
was  encouraged  by  Irving  with  whom  he  formed  a  friendship  that  was 
later  to  lead  to  Charles  II  and  other  collaborations.  His  talent  for  a  com- 
bination of  the  materials  of  others  showed  in  his  adaptation  of  Kotzebue's 
Lovers'  Vows  (1809). 

Notwithstanding  success  as  an  actor  in  the  "circuit"  of  those  days, 
Payne  felt  he  was  blocked  in  New  York,  so  he  sailed  for  England  in  181 3, 
making  his  debut  in  June  at  Drury  Lane,  with  great  success  as  "Norval." 
In  Paris,  he  lived  for  a  time  with  Irving  and  began  his  constant  study  of  the 
French  drama.  In  criticizing  Payne's  work  here  it  is  necessary  to  select, 
among  the  sixty  plays  attributed  to  him,  only  those  of  unusual  importance. 

His  tragedy  Brutus:  or,  The  Fall  of  Tarquin,  was  produced  at  Drury 
Lane,  December  3,  18 18.  It  was  an  instant  success,  and  was  performed 
during  the  rest  of  the  season  over  fifty  times,  a  most  unusual  occurrence 
in  those  days  of  repertory.  Two  years  before  Sidney  Smith  uttered  his 
famous  sneer:  "In  all  the  world  who  reads  an  American  book  or  goes  to 
see  an  American  play?"  the  British  public  were  crowding  Drury  Lane 
to  see  one  of  the  most  successful  tragedies  of  the  nineteenth  century  in 


EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  209 

which  actors  like  Edmund  Kean,  Junius  Brutus  Booth,  Edwin  Forrest, 
and  Edwin  Booth  played  for  seventy  years  in  Britain  and  the  United 
States.  In  the  preface  to  the  play,  Payne  stated  that  there  were  seven 
plays  upon  the  subject,  and  that  he  had  no  hesitation  in  adopting  their 
conceptions  and  language  if  he  needed  them.  Of  the  five  plays  which 
show7  any  influence  on  his  drama,  written  by  Lee,  Voltaire,  Duncombe, 
Downman  and  Cumberland,  two  were  not  played  and  none  was  a  suc- 
cess. The  skill  of  Payne  is  best  appreciated  when  his  work  is  compared 
with  its  sources.  In  his  use  of  Roman  history,15  he  was  treating  common 
property.  In  his  hands  Brutus  becomes  a  living  force,  using  the  rape  of 
Lucrece  to  expel  the  Tarquins,  and  condemning  his  own  son  who  had 
proved  a  traitor,  in  a  moving  climax.  The  characters  in  that  welter  of 
patricide,  rape  and  adultery  stand  out  clearly  as  individuals  and  the  many 
editions  of  the  play  are  a  testimony  to  its  lasting  value  as  literature. 

Payne  tried  to  manage  Sadler's  Wells  Theatre  and  went  to  a  debtor's 
prison  in  consequence.  He  was  released  by  the  success  of  his  melodrama, 
Therese,  in  182 1,  and  in  1823  wrote  his  opera,  Clari,  which  owed  its 
continued  popularity  to  his  song  "Home,  Sweet  Home,"  used  throughout 
as  a  motif  that  guides  the  actions  of  the  heroine.  The  music,  written  by 
Henry  Bishop,  was  based  on  a  Sicilian  air,  with  which  Payne  was 
acquainted. 

His  best  comedy,  Charles  the  Second,  came  in  1824  at  Covent  Garden. 
It  was  based  on  La  Jeunesse  de  Henri  V  by  Alexandre  Duval,  but  Payne 
and  Irving  who  collaborated  in  the  English  version  both  added  elements  of 
value  in  structure  and  dialogue.  The  songs  which  Charles  Lamb  admired 
so  much  are  Irving's.  The  tone  is  that  of  the  high  comedy  of  manners, 
so  hard  to  strike,  and  the  characters  of  Charles  and  of  the  Earl  of 
Rochester  have  the  flavor  of  a  court,  witty  and  heartless,  but  rarely  dull. 
Captain  Copp,  the  sailor  and  tavern  keeper  whom  even  Charles  cannot 
daunt,  was  a  favorite  part  with  comedians  for  many  years. 

Irving  also  collaborated  with  Payne  in  his  domestic  tragedy  of  Riche- 
lieu (1826),  based  on  Duval's  La  Jeunesse  du  Due  de  Richelieu:  ou  le 
Lovelace  Frangais,  which  reveals  the  influence  of  Richardson  in  France. 
The  betrayal  and  death  of  Madame  Dorival,  a  virtuous  but  indiscreet 
wife,  by  the  libertine  Due  de  Richelieu  is  a  drama  in  which  the  struggle 
is  within  the  soul  of  a  woman  attracted  by  a  danger  she  finds  it  too  difficult 
to  avoid.  It  had  opposition  from  the  British  censor  at  first  but  ultimately 
became  a  success  which  lasted  well  into  the  fifties  when  a  version  entitled 
Remorse  was  acted  in  New  York. 

Payne  returned  to  this  country  in  1832,  when  a  testimonial  festival 
was  given  to  him.  He  found  his  plays  acted  in  all  the  principal  cities,  an 
average  of  twenty-five  plays  each  year  being  acted  in  Boston  alone.  For 

1 5  Long  supposed  to  be  mythical-now,  the  present  writer  understands,  with  some 
basis  in  fact. 


210  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

these  he  received  no  compensation.  Payne  died  April  9,    1852,  having 
served  as  consul  at  Tunis  during  his  last  years. 

Like  many  British  playwrights  of  the  time,  Payne  found  inspiration 
in  French  drama,  but  the  influence  may  well  have  been  reciprocal.  Kean 
took  Brutus  to  Paris  in  1827  and  it  probably  helped  in  the  revival  of  the 
romantic  heroic  drama  there. 


A  very  significant  group  of  playwrights  dealing  with  foreign  or  uni- 
versal themes  at  this  time  were  living  in  Charleston,  South  Carolina. 
Removed  by  distance  from  Philadelphia  and  New  York,  there  was  more 
opportunity  for  local  talent.  John  Blake  White  (1783-1859)  wrote  his 
¥ os can:  or,  The  Venetian  Exile  (1806),  a  tragedy  of  father  and  son, 
fifteen  years  before  Byron  published  his  Two  Foscari.  It  has  dignity  and 
excellent  blank  verse.  White's  Modern  Honor  (18 12),  "laid  anywhere  in 
the  civilized  world"  attacked  the  practice  of  dueling  effectively.  His 
other  plays  are  not  on  the  same  level. 

Isaac  Harby  (1788-1828),  author  of  The  Gordian  Knot,  a  romantic 
melodrama  performed  in  18 10,  in  Charleston,  revealed  delightfully  in  his 
preface  to  the  printed  play  the  difficulties  of  the  playwright  of  those 
days,  and  also  made  clear  that  he  preferred  to  represent  man  in  his  general 
rather  than  local  nature.  His  Alberti  (18 19),  another  romantic  drama,  is 
one  of  the  plays  of  the  time  that  has  a  touch  of  inspiration.  It  is  a  revenge 
play  with  an  unusual  plot. 

When  we  consider  the  difficulties  under  which  the  playwright  labored 
in  America  the  wonder  is  that  any  work  was  done.  In  the  accounts  of 
managers  that  have  survived,  no  mention  is  made  of  any  payment  to  the 
playwright.  Barker  occasionally  received  a  "benefit"  in  which  he  took  the 
profits  of  a  performance  after  the  expenses  had  been  deducted,  but  this 
was  unusual.  It  was  not  the  fault  of  the  public,  but  of  the  managers.  The 
manuscript  diary  of  William  Wood,  the  Philadelphia  manager,  proves 
through  its  records  of  receipts,  how,  over  and  over  again,  when  British 
plays  brought  in  poor  returns,  a  drama  by  Dunlap,  Barker,  Noah,  or  Payne 
played  to  greatly  increased  receipts,  from  which  the  dramatist  received 
nothing.  Yet  the  perennial  desire  to  create  inspired  the  writing  of  trage- 
dies and  comedies,  which  have  been  placed  upon  the  stage  even  today 
with  success.  There  was  sincerity,  skill,  and  devotion  to  an  ideal  on  the 
part  of  those  who  gave  to  the  actors  some  of  their  finest  inspiration.  All 
the  playwrights  lacked  were  opportunity  and  encouragement. 


Chapter  13 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES 

The  frontier  in  American  life  has  been  made  quite  properly  a  major 
element  in  its  history.  But  there  is  more  than  one  frontier  and  while 
recent  emphasis  has  been  most  frequently  laid  on  that  westward  move- 
ment which  carried  our  domain  to  Louisiana,  Forida,  California,  and 
even  across  the  Pacific,  there  was  also  another  frontier  which  grew 
fainter  as  our  pioneers  left  behind  them  their  heritage  from  European 
culture  and  made  them  at  times  impervious  to  the  French  culture  in 
Louisiana,  or  the  Spanish  culture  in  our  acquisitions  from  Mexico.  Any 
visitor  to  New  Orleans,  Santa  Fe,  or  San  Francisco  must  be  aware  of  that 
persistence  in  European  influence,  only  partially  reflected  in  the  survival 
of  places,  names,  and  customs. 

It  was  perhaps  unfortunate  from  the  point  of  view  of  literature  that 
the  first  wave  of  pioneers  beyond  the  Alleghenies  were  usually  hostile 
or  indifferent  to  the  Indian,  the  Spaniard,  and  the  Frenchman.  Cooper, 
Bird,  Simms,  Longfellow,  and  other  writers  saw  the  possibilities  of  literary 
material  in  these  races,  but  their  treatment  was  generally  that  of  the 
observer,  not  the  participator. 

There  was  another  movement,  definitely  literary  in  character  which 
retraced  the  steps  of  the  earliest  pioneers  and  recaptured  for  their  coun- 
trymen the  scenes  and  characters  of  those  cultures  which  their  ancestors 
had  left,  or  of  the  broader  European  life  of  which  they  had  been  a  part. 
In  his  laudable  desire  to  free  his  countrymen  from  undue  dependence 
upon  European  books  and  critical  standards,  Emerson  forgot  how  much 
of  the  past  had  gone  into  his  own  making,  and  that  there  was  a  constant 
necessity  for  that  combination  of  national  and  universal  impulses  and 
inspiration,  which  found  its  first  great  representative  in  Washington 
Irving. 

Washington  Irving  was  born  in  New  York  City,  April  3,  1783.  His 
father,  William  Irving,  was  Scottish  and  his  mother,  Sarah  Sanders,  was 
an  Englishwoman.  They  landed  in  New  York  in   1763  and  during  the 

211 


2i2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Revolution  took  the  patriotic  side.  Their  eleventh  child  was  named  after 
the  first  President  and  George  Washington  gave  him  his  blessing  when 
the  little  boy  was  introduced  to  him  in  a  shop  where  his  nurse  had  taken 
him  for  that  purpose.  The  boy  was  brought  up  in  a  somewhat  rigorous 
atmosphere  at  home,  his  father  being  a  Presbyterian,  and  he  spent  his 
boyhood  in  a  city  consisting,  at  the  time  of  his  birth,  of  only  23,000 
inhabitants.  These  were  nearly  all  devoted  to  commercial  pursuits,  and 
the  traces  of  Dutch  stolidity  had  not  as  yet  been  obliterated  from  New 
York. 

Irving  grew  up  under  this  strict,  commercial  environment  with  a  dislike 
for  business,  and  with  a  fondness  for  the  theatre.  His  education,  which 
was  nominally  finished  when  he  was  sixteen,  was  desultory  and  was 
interrupted  by  ill  health,  but  he  was  an  omnivorous  reader  of  what  suited 
him  and  he  early  showed  a  tendency  in  the  direction  of  romance.  He 
studied  law  but  never  knew  much  about  it  and  he  cared  less.  In  fact,  his 
physical  condition  was  so  poor  that  in  1804  his  brothers  sent  him  to 
Europe.  He  had  always  been  a  scribbler  of  prose  and  verse  and  in  1802 
had  even  contributed  a  series  of  letters  signed  "Jonathan  Oldstyle,"  to 
the  Morning  Chronicle,  a  newspaper  then  recently  established  by  his 
brother  Peter.  But  his  ambition  seemed  to  be  limited  by  a  desire  for  social 
enjoyment,  for  which  his  agreeable  personality  and  manner  suited  him. 

Irving  remained  abroad  about  two  years,  visiting  France,  Italy,  and 
England,  meeting,  among  others,  Coleridge  and  Washington  Allston, 
who  almost  persuaded  Irving  to  develop  his  talent  for  painting.  On  his 
return,  in  February,  1806,  he  resumed  his  idle  way  of  living,  and  more  as 
a  joke  than  anything  else  he  contributed  to  the  publication  of  a  semi- 
monthly periodical  Salmagundi  which  he  wrote  in  connection  with  his 
brother  William  and  James  K.  Paulding.  This  ran  for  twenty  numbers, 
from  January  24,  1807  to  January  25,  1808,  and  was  written  "to  instruct 
the  young,  reform  the  old,  correct  the  town  and  castigate  the  age."  It 
is  light  and  witty;  the  style  and  the  framework  remind  one  of  the 
Spectator.  Anthony  Evergreen  and  Will  Wizard,  are  thinly  disguised, 
and  the  letters  from  Mustapha  Rub-a-Dub  Keli-Khan,  who  is  a  native  of 
Tripoli  on  a  visit  to  New  York,  remind  one  of  Goldsmith's  Citizen  of  the 
World.  But  there  is  after  all  something  original  in  the  humor,  which  has 
the  characteristic  of  America  in  the  sudden  and  ingenious  linking  of 
incongruous  ideas.  The  papers  were  successful  but  the  publishers  and 
editors  stopped  them  as  suddenly  as  they  had  begun  them. 

Even  discounting  the  satirical  origin  of  Salmagundi,  much  first-hand 
information  is  given  concerning  social  life,  the  theatre,  the  poetry,  and 
the  politics.  The  principal  effect  of  Salmagundi  on  the  modern  reader 
is  to  make  him  recognize  how  little  change  there  is  in  human  nature  after 
a  century  and  a  half.  The  parvenu  made  his  way  by  pushing  and  money, 
the  women  painted  their  faces,  wore  muslin  in  cold  weather  with  neck 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES  213 

and  arms  bare,  flesh  colored  stockings,  and  dresses  so  long  they  dropped 
in  the  mud.  A  clever  theatrical  criticism  of  Cooper  and  Fenncll  in 
Othello,  closes  by  a  postscript— "Just  as  this  was  going  to  press,  I  was 
informed  that  Othello  had  not  been  performed  here  the  Lord  knows 
when— no  matter  I  am  not  the  first  that  has  criticized  a  play  without 
seeing  it."  A  poem  of  two  pages,  with  "notes"  of  six  (in  fine  print), 
probably  points  to  the  Colwnbiad—  which  had  sixty  of  them.  The  con- 
stant description  of  elections  as  occasions  for  drinking  and  roistering, 
and  accomplishing  nothing  reveals  the  authors'  dislike  of  mobs.  It  is  not 
party  satire  so  much  as  a  criticism  of  a  time  in  our  history  when  perhaps 
the  most  bitter  discussion  of  politics  took  place,  without  any  tangible 
result.  This  conclusion  is  in  agreement  with  the  judgment  of  Henry 
Adams  a  century  later  that  no  great  political  theories  were  created  in 
this  period.  Perhaps  theory  was  beginning  to  develop  into  practice,  the 
inevitable  adjustment. 

Washington  Irving  was  only  partially  responsible  for  Salmagundi,1 
and  his  first  individual  creation  was  A  History  of  New  York:  From  the 
Beginning  of  the  WorWto  the  End  of  the  Butch  Dynasty  (1809).  It  was 
at  first  intended  as  a  satire  upon  a  book  called  "A  Picture  of  New  York" 
by  Dr.  Samuel  L.  Mitchill,  but  upon  the  departure  of  his  brother  for 
Europe,  Washington  Irving,  who  had  intended  to  collaborate  with  him, 
changed  the  plan  and  wrote  a  comic  history  of  New  York  during  the 
Dutch  dominion.  It  was  introduced  as  having  been  found  in  the  papers 
of  an  eccentric  old  person,  Diedrich  Knickerbocker,  and  this  queer  old 
gentleman  served  as  the  introducer  of  several  other  stories  of  Irving. 
The  inception  of  the  History  of  New  York  cannot  be  better  described 
than  in  Irving's  own  words:  It  was  written,  he  said,  in  the  Preface  to  the 
edition  of  1848,  "to  clothe  home  scenes  and  places  and  familiar  names 
with  those  imaginative  and  whimsical  associations  so  seldom  met  with  in 
our  new  country,  but  which  live  like  charms  and  spells  about  the  cities 
of  the  old  world,  binding  the  heart  of  the  native  inhabitant  to  his  home." 

Irving  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  his  book  has  become  the  staple 
of  writers  of  popular  fiction,  that  he  finds  himself  crowded  off  the 
legendary  ground  which  he  was  the  first  to  explore  in  the  United  States, 
by  the  host  who  followed  in  his  footsteps.  Here  as  elsewhere  Irving  was 
a  pioneer.  Beginning  with  an  amusing  disquisition  on  the  pedantry  of 
historians,  Irving  touched  with  a  light  yet  searching  satire  the  weaknesses 
of  the  Dutch  character  during  its  ascendancy  in  New  Amsterdam.  His 
finest  efforts  were  the  pictures  of  the  governors— Wooter  van  Twiller, 
"five  feet,  six  inches  in  height  and  six  feet,  five  inches  in  circumference," 
Wilhelmius  Kieft,  who  governed  by  proclamation,  and  Peter  Stuyvesant, 
the  authoritarian.  The  satire  on  Kieft  is  based  upon  Jefferson's  foreign 

1  For  assignment  of  the  papers  to  the  individual  authors,  see  Stanley  T.  Williams' 
Life  of  Irving  (1935),  Vol.  2,  pp.  271-272,  and  the  Preface  to  the  i860  edition. 


2i4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

policy,  of  which  the  Federalists  disapproved,  and  Irving's  instinct  for 
political  thinking  is  shown  in  his  amusing  account  of  the  origin  of  parties. 
He  pokes  fun  also  at  the  reign  of  the  people,  the  scheme  for  the  abolition 
of  poverty,  the  creation  of  oyster  shell  money,  and  especially  the  Pilgrims, 
"a  people  who  are  always  seeking  a  better  country  than  their  own."  The 
book  had  a  remarkable  success  and  may  be  said  to  have  added  one  of  the 
foremost  characters  of  our  national  literary  life. 

Notwithstanding  the  success  of  the  History  Irving  did  not  at  once 
devote  himself  to  literature  as  a  profession.  He  became  associated  with 
his  brothers  in  business  but  spent  most  of  his  time  in  the  society  of  New 
York,  Philadelphia,  Baltimore,  or  Washington.  In  May  1815,  he  went  to 
England  where  the  ultimate  bankruptcy  of  his  firm  turned  his  thoughts 
to  letters  as  a  means  of  livelihood.  The  Sketch  Book  of  Geoffrey  Crayon, 
Gent,  appeared  first  in  installments  in  the  United  States  during  18 19  and 
1820  and  was  published  as  a  book  in  England,  in  1820,  through  the 
friendly  efforts  of  Scott. 

The  Sketch  Book  is  of  major  significance  because  Irving  combined  in 
"Rip  Van  Winkle"  and  "The  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow"  the  interest 
of  the  narrative  objective  tale  and  the  subjective  essay  of  character,  and 
created  the  Short  Story.  Irving  did  this  deliberately.  In  a  letter  written 
to  Henry  Brevoort  in  1824  he  said: 

For  my  part,  I  consider  a  story  merely  as  a  frame  on  which  to  stretch  my 
materials.  It  is  the  play  of  thought,  and  sentiment,  and  language;  the  weaving 
in  of  characters,  lightly  yet  expressively  delineated;  the  familiar  and  faithful 
exhibition  of  scenes  in  common  life;  and  the  half -concealed  vein  of  humor 
that  is  often  playing  through  the  whole,— these  are  among  what  I  aim  at, 
and  upon  which  I  felicitate  myself  in  proportion  as  I  think  I  succeed.  I  have 
preferred  adopting  the  mode  of  sketches  and  short  tales  rather  than  long 
works,  because  I  choose  to  take  a  line  of  writing  peculiar  to  myself,  rather 
than  fall  into  the  manner  or  school  of  any  other  writer,  and  there  is  a  constant 
activity  of  thought  and  a  nicety  of  execution  required  in  writings  of  the  kind, 
more  than  the  world  appears  to  imagine.2 

In  "Rip  Van  Winkle,"  he  took  the  character,  already  in  his  mind,  for  in 
the  History  of  New  York  he  spoke  of  the  "Van  Winkles,  noted  for 
running  up  of  scores  at  taverns,"  added  hints  from  three  German  folk 
tales,  gave  the  touch  of  tragedy  from  Rip's  lost  twenty  years,  and  most 
important,  made  him  the  symbol  of  the  protest  of  the  individual  against 
the  tyranny  of  the  small-town  mind.  It  is  this r  quality  that  has  made  Rip 
live  in  Irving's  story  and  on  the  stage  for  over  a  century.  It  is  the  character 
of  Ichabod  Crane  which  makes  The  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow  important, 
not  the  headless  horseman  episode.  This  combination  of  native  and  foreign 
impulses,  romantic  in  material  but  realistic  in  treatment,  makes  these  two 
stories  stand  out  among  his  more  idealistic  sketches  of  English  country 

2  Pierre  Irving,  Life  and  Letters  (1862-64),  Vol.  2,  p.  35. 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES  215 

life  and  Germanic  romance.  Irving  could  be  vigorous,  however,  as  in  his 
manly  protest  against  the  British  intolerance  in  "English  Writers  on 
America";  and  his  picture  of  Indian  life,  reprinted  from  the  Analectic 
Magazine  of  18 13-14,  while  somewhat  one-sided,  reveals  his  sympathy 
with  a  race  already  doomed  to  exile  from  their  own  lands. 

Bracebridge  Hall  (1822),  the  sequel  to  the  English  sketches  in  the 
Sketch  Book,  is  charming  in  its  style,  and  its  quiet  humor.  But  it  is  only 
an  idealized  corner  of  England  and  the  best  chapter  is  that  in  which 
Irving  pokes  fun  at  the  scholarship  of  the  Literary  Antiquary  who 
searches  for  trifles  all  his  life.  How  little  it  all  matters  now  is  revealed 
when  we  come  across  the  tale  of  "Dolph  Heyliger,"  in  which  Irving 
returned  to  his  Hudson.  Here  his  real  strength  lav. 

The  Tales  of  a  Traveller  appeared  in  1824  after  Irving  had  wandered 
through  Germany  and  returned  to  Paris.  Thev  have  added  little  to  his 
fame,  but  they  are  of  interest  now  because  they  reveal  how  Irving  was 
essentially  a  lover  of  wandering  and  adventure,  to  bear  later  fruit.  It  was 
in  1823  and  1824  that  he  aided  John  Howard  Payne  in  adapting  from 
the  French  of  Alexandre  Duval  the  successful  comedy,  Charles  II,  which 
shows  unmistakable  evidence  of  Irving's  fancy,  especially  in  the  humor 
and  the  songs.  Irving  did  not  permit  Payne  to  place  his  name  on  the  title 
page,  probably  because  of  the  insecure  standing  of  the  playwright  of 
those  days.  Payne  dedicated  his  tragedy  Richelieu  (1826)  to  Irving, 
however,  and  thanked  him  for  his  invaluable  aid.  Richelieu  was  hurt  by  a 
political  cabal  but  both  plavs  were  performed  for  many  years.  Irving's 
own  dramatic  ventures,  like  Abu  H assail,  a  clever  farce,  remained  un- 
produced  or  published  until  recent  times.  That  his  belief  in  his  own 
dramatic  talent  was  justified,  however,  is  proved  by  the  great  success  of 
the  play  which  other  hands  made  of  Rip  Van  Winkle* 

Irving  even  dramatized  himself,  and  in  a  letter  to  Scott  in  18 19  spoke 
of  his  having  to  watch  the  varyings  of  his  mind  as  he  would  "those  of  a 
weather  cock."  This  letter  has  caused  one  present  day  critic  without  a 
sense  of  humor  to  speak  of  Irving's  "weather  cock  mind."  But  this  is  far 
from  the  truth.  Irving  changed  his  plans  with  deliberation  and  turned 
from  his  sketches  to  his  longer  works  with  a  critical  judgment  unusual 
in  a  successful  author.  In  1826  he  went  to  Madrid  to  begin  his  researches 
preparatory  to  the  Life  and  Voyages  of  Christopher  Columbus  (1828), 
being  aided  by  his  appointment  as  attache  to  the  American  Legation  at 
Aladrid.  He  knew  Spanish  well  and  his  deep-seated  love  of  romance 
beckoned  him  to  the  country  whose  history  was  a  battleground  of  races 
and  whose  encouragement  of  Columbus  linked  it  to  America. 

Irving  worked  hard,  sometimes  with  original  manuscripts,  but  more 

3  For  an  example  of  Irving's  keen  judgement  as  to  acting,  see  his  long  letter  to  his 
brother,  William,  October  26,  1805,  published  in  Journ.  Rutgers  Univ.  Lib.,  ed<  C. 
and  R.  Kirk,  Vol.  10  (Dec.  1946),  pp.  25-27. 


216  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

often  with  the  writings  of  Spanish  scholars,  such  as  the  Coleccion  de  los 
Viages  of  Martin  Fernandez  de  Navarette.  Navarette  presented  the 
results  of  sound  scholarship,  and  Irving  turned  them  into  literature.4 
Spanish  critics  have  praised  the  interpretation  of  the  spirit  of  Columbus. 
As  M.  Romera-Navarro5  expresses  it— "He  may  have  little  or  much  to 
teach,  but  what  he  says  could  not  be  better  said."  The  Voyages  and  Dis- 
coveries of  the  Companions  of  Christopher  Columbus  followed  in  183 1. 

When  Irving  produced  his  next  work,  A  Chronicle  of  the  Conquest  of 
Granada  (1829),  he  introduced  it  as  "From  the  MSS.  of  Fray  Antonio 
Agapida."  This  disguise  he  assumed  to  give  him  greater  freedom  in  the 
introduction  of  romance  into  the  history.  But  comparison  of  his  treat- 
ment of  the  same  incident,  such  as  the  conquest  of  the  Moorish  fortress 
of  the  Alhamra,  with  Prescott's  later  account,  will  show  no  deviation  on 
Irving's  part  from  the  facts  of  history.  He  found  them  in  Spanish  histories 
and  in  collections  of  Spanish  ballads,  and  a  careful  comparison  of  the 
texts  of  these  with  Irving  will  show  that  much  of  the  romantic  embroi- 
dery for  which  he  has  been  criticized  is  due  to  his  faithful  following  of 
the  old  chronicles.6  If  there  was  too  much  fighting  in  Irving's  romance, 
there  was  also  too  much  fighting  in  Granada. 

The  Alhambra  (1832)  is  frankly  romance;  Irving  had  lived  in  the 
ancient  castle  in  1829  and  he  reproduced  the  atmosphere  with  the  genius 
of  sympathy.  The  last  residence  of  the  Moorish  kings  in  Granada  has 
around  it  the  fragrance  that  rises  from  a  lost  cause,  but  while  the  legends 
Irving  retells  are  largely  thronged  with  the  loves,  happy  and  tragic,  of  the 
conventional  figures  of  romance,  yet  there  are  also  realistic  figures.  Pedro 
the  water  carrier  is  as  real  as  he  can  well  be.  There  is  magnificent  writing 
in  "The  Legend  of  the  Two  Discreet  Statues"  describing  the  return  of 
Prince  Boabdil  el  Chico  to  the  halls  of  his  ancestors,  seen  through  the 
eyes  of  magic.  It  is  not  all  roses  and  sunlight;  there  is  the  sense  of  "the 
melancholy  and  austere  majesty  of  the  plains  of  the  two  Castilles  . . . 
with  clearer  view  than  any  other  foreign  traveller  who  visited  Spain."  7 

The  success  of  these  books  was  immediate  and  deserved.  They  brought 
him  the  D.C.L.  from  Oxford  and  the  appointment  as  Secretary  of  Legation 
at  the  Court  of  St.  James.  Here  he  remained  till  183 1,  when  he  resigned 
and  returned  to  America  in  1832.  He  now  made  an  extended  tour  through 
the  South  and  West,  which  made  him  acquainted  with  the  frontier  of 
those  days,  and  resulted  in  a  Tour  of  the  Prairies  (1835).  This  formed 
the  first  volume  of  the  Crayon  Miscellany.  The  second  volume  contained 
"Abbotsford"  and  "Newstead  Abbey,"  pleasant  recollections  of  Scotland 

4  For  discussion  of  Irving's  use  of  his  sources,  see  Williams'  Life,  "Supplementary 
Studies"— also  J.  D.  Ferguson,  American  Literature  in  Spain  (1916). 
5M.  Romera-Navarro,  El  Hispanismo  en  Norte  America  (Madrid,  1917),  Chap.  I. 

6  Louise  M.  Hoffman,  "Irving's  Use  of  Spanish  Sources  in  the  Conquest  of  Granada," 
Hispania,  Vol.  28  (1945),  pp.  483-498. 

7  Romera-Navarro,  Hispanismo,  Chap.  I. 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES  217 

and  a  visit  to  Scott's  home.  In  the  third  volume  were  collected  the  Legends 
of  the  C on quest  of  Spain,  including  the  "Legend  of  Don  Roderick,"  the 
last  of  the  Gothic  kings  of  Spain  before  the  A4oorish  conquest,  the 
"Legend  of  the  Subjugation  of  Spain,"  and  the  "Legend  of  Count  Julian," 
whose  treacherous  revenge  upon  Roderick  made  the  Moorish  conquest 
possible,  beginning  with  the  crucial  battle  of  Guadalete. 

Irving's  journey  to  the  frontier,  and  his  admiration  for  the  largeness 
of  the  conception  by  John  Jacob  Astor  of  the  struggle  with  Great  Britain 
for  the  Northwest,  led  to  the  writing  of  Astoria  (1836).  The  material  was 
provided  by  the  records  of  the  fur  companies  and  some  of  it  was  gathered 
bv  his  nephew,  but  Irving  gave  to  the  book  his  capacity  for  adding  flavor 
to  facts.  His  own  love  of  adventure  kindled  into  a  stirring  narrative  of 
the  daring  of  the  crew  of  the  Tonquin,  the  vessel  which  had  made  the 
long  voyage  around  Cape  Horn  only  to  be  blown  up  in  the  Columbia 
River.  Irving  also  was  at  home  in  depicting  the  vastness  of  the  North- 
west, the  wilderness  of  man  and  nature,  the  persistence  of  the  party  under 
William  Hunt,  who  had  to  return  again  and  again  to  their  starting  point, 
until  they  finally  crossed  the  Rockies  and  saw  the  mountain  peaks  of  the 
Columbia  River.  In  1837  Irving  published  The  Adventures  of  Captain 
Bonneville,  an  officer  who  had  had  a  series  of  romantic  adventures  in 
the  West.  Then,  hearing  that  Prescott  was  about  to  embark  upon  his  ac- 
count of  the  Conquest  of  Mexico,  Irving,  with  characteristic  generosity, 
gave  up  his  own  long  cherished  project  of  writing  such  a  history. 

In  1842  he  was  appointed  Minister  to  Spain.  He  performed  his  diplo- 
matic duties  well  and  they  were  not  light  ones,  for  the  politics  of  Spain 
were  in  a  dramatic  situation,  owing  to  the  death  of  King  Ferdinand. 
Irving's  credentials  were  to  the  Queen  Regent,  who  was  already  in  exile 
when  he  arrived.  In  1846  he  returned,  happy  to  be  once  more  at  his  home 
"Sunnyside"  on  the  Hudson,  which  he  built  with  such  care  and  interest 
during  his  former  visit. 

His  last  years  were  marked  by  the  production  of  some  of  his  best 
work.  In  1849  appeared  his  biography  of  Oliver  Goldsmith,  a  sympathetic 
study  of  a  character  that  had  something  in  common  with  Irving,  al- 
though the  supposed  debt  to  Goldsmith  has  been  much  exaggerated. 
Mahomet  and  his  Successors  (1850)  is  a  dull  book,  planned  as  early  as 
1827  but  written  without  gusto  and  important  only  as  part  of  a  larger 
scheme.  Yet  a  student  of  today,  interested  in  the  Arabian-Jewish  con- 
troversy, can  find  in  Mahomet  an  explanation  of  the  hopelessness  of  any 
solution  satisfactory  to  both  races. 

From  1855  t0  l859  appeared  the  five  volumes  of  his  long-deferred  Life 
of  Washington.  It  was  the  crowning  work  of  his  life.  As  usual,  he  made 
use  of  other  works,  such  as  Sparks'  collections  of  Washington's  writings, 
but  he  wove  into  the  biography  a  tradition  which  Irving  had  watched 
grow  during  his  own  lifetime.  He  transferred  with  the  fingers  of  memory 


218  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  effect  of  George  Washington's  character  upon  his  countrymen,  and 
attributed  to  him  the  real  greatness  which  even  in  his  lifetime  had  not 
been  fully  recognized.  The  biography  is  in  reality  a  history  of  the  Revolu- 
tion and  the  beginnings  of  the  nation,  and  here  again  Irving  recognized 
how  Washington  was  the  centre  of  that  conflict,  and  that  foundation. 
In  spite  of  later  discoveries,  Irving's  biography  can  be  disregarded  by  any 
American  historian  at  his  peril.  Irving  died  at  Sunnyside,  November  28, 
1859.  Some  of  his  earlier  writings  were  collected  in  1866,  under  the  title 
of  Spanish  Papers.  They  included  the  "Legend  of  Pelayo,"  the  "Chronicle 
of  Fernan  Gonzalz,  Count  of  Castile,"  and  the  "Chronicle  of  Fernando 
the  Saint,"  under  whose  leadership  the  Christians  began  to  re-establish 
their  rule  in  Spain. 

Irving's  work  falls  into  four  divisions;  fiction,  essays,  history  and  biog- 
raphy. In  fiction  he  did  his  best  work,  for  as  Howells  remarked,8  "he 
worked  willingly  only  when  he  worked  inventively."  The  creator  of  the 
Short  Story,  nearly  every  American  writer  of  fiction,  from  Hawthorne 
and  Poe  to  Bret  Harte  and  Edith  Wharton,  learned  from  him  the  secret 
of  that  art.  A  musical  version  of  The  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow  has  re- 
cently been  put  on  the  stage  and  a  radio  play  concerning  Irving's  life 
was  given  within  two  days  of  the  Philadelphia  opening  of  the  musical. 
The  History  of  New  York  was  the  basis  of  Maxwell  Anderson's  highly 
successful  musical  comedy,  Knickerbocker  Holiday  (1938),  for  which 
Kurt  Weill  wrote  the  delightful  music.  Charles  Dickens  paid  public 
tribute  to  him  many  times  and  any  student  of  the  British  novelist  can 
see  how  his  love  for  festivals,  like  Christmas,  or  for  other  occasions  which 
bring  human  beings  together  happily,  are  shot  through  with  the  spirit 
of  the  American  whose  work  Dickens  kept  by  him  as  a  source  of  inspira- 
tion. Robert  Louis  Stevenson  paid  a  glowing  tribute  to  his  debt  to  Irving 
in  the  preface  to  Treasure  Island,  and  the  great  revival  of  romance  in 
English  may  therefore  be  traced  indirectly  to  him.  In  his  essays,  there 
is  the  easy  grace  which  clothes  the  fancy  of  Irving  as  his  imagination 
created  his  characters.  His  histories  and  biographies  have  been  sufficiently 
analyzed,  but  it  is  not  usually  realized  how  much  ground  is  covered  by 
them.  Mahomet  and  His  Successors  begins  in  569  a.d.  and  traces  Arabic 
nnd  Moorish  history  until  the  conquest  of  Africa  had  brought  the  Moors 
to  the  Pillars  of  Hercules  in  705;  The  Legends  of  the  Conquest  of  Spain 
deal  with  the  struggles  of  Christianity  against  the  encroaching  Moslems; 
the  "Chronicles,"  included  in  the  Spanish  Papers,  treat  of  the  reviving 
efforts  of  Castile  and  Leon  to  drive  back  the  infidels,  which  lead  directly 
to  the  Conquest  of  Granada,  when  in  the  fifteenth  century,  Ferdinand 
and  Isabella  captured  the  Alhambra  and  freed  Spain  from  Moorish  domi- 
nation. Then  comes  the  Life  of  Columbus,  linking  the  Old  World  to  the 
New  and  the  Voyages  of  his  companions  and  followers.  It  is  a  great  pe- 

s  My  Literary  Passions  (1895),  p.  26. 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES  219 

riod  of  the  world's  history  and  while  it  is  the  romance  of  history  that 
Irving  gives  us,  it  must  be  remembered  that  he  often  deals  with  indi- 
viduals and  periods  that  are  still  semimythical.  It  is  a  usual  commonplace 
of  criticism  to  speak  of  Irving  as  a  successor  of  Goldsmith  and  Addison, 
largely,  apparently,  because  he  wrote  good  English.  But  in  reality  Irving, 
for  reasons  already  given,  is  rather  a  pioneer  in  his  combination  of  ro- 
mantic material  and  realistic  treatment. 

It  is  difficult  for  us  now  to  appreciate  Irving's  contribution  to  Ameri- 
can letters.  He  was  the  first  American  to  be  known  and  recognized  in 
England  and  on  the  Continent  as  a  man  of  letters  pure  and  simple.  Frank- 
lin had  preceded  him,  it  is  true,  but  Franklin's  literary  fame  was  second 
in  England  and  France  to  his  scientific  renown.  At  a  time  when  poor 
copyright  laws  and  over-shadowing  British  achievement  discouraged 
American  authors,  Irving's  success,  especially  with  native  material,  es- 
tablished our  claim  to  literary  significance.  His  recognition  in  Europe 
was  almost  immediate  and  has  been  continuous.  In  Spanish,  forty-two 
translations  of  eight  different  works  appeared;  in  French,  one  hundred 
and  thirteen  translations  have  been  issued;  in  German,  sixty-one.  The 
Sketch  Book  was  translated  into  fifteen  languages.  These  figures,  which 
must  be  incomplete,  indicate  his  position  as  a  world  artist. 


One  of  Irving's  collaborators  in  Salmagundi,  James  Kirke  Paulding 
(1778-1860),  born  in  Dutchess  County,  New  York,  wrote  novels  of 
colonial  life,  of  the  Revolution,  and  of  the  frontier.  His  Diverting  History 
of  John  Bull  and  Brother  Jonathan  (181 2)  was  a  satire,  inspired  by 
Francis  Hopkinson's  Pretty  Story.  Jonathan  leaves  the  old  farm  and  is 
attacked  by  John  Bull,  first  physically  and  then  through  slander.  Paulding 
does  not  hesitate  to  depict  American  weaknesses,  as  well  as  British  in- 
tolerance. His  first  real  novel,  Koningsmarke:  or,  Old  Times  in  the  New 
World  (1823),  is  a  story  of  the  Swedish  settlements  on  the  Delaware 
River,  with  a  hero  from  Finland  who  wins  the  daughter  of  the  governor 
of  the  Colony  after  adventures  among  the  Indians.  Paulding  takes  occasion 
to  satirize  the  hastily  prepared  romance,  easy  to  write  but  hard  to  read. 
He  sometimes  kept  his  fiction  from  publication  for  several  years,  so  The 
Dutchman' 's  Fireside  did  not  appear  until  183  1,  inspired,  he  said,  by  the 
Memoirs  of  an  American  Lady  by  Mrs.  Anne  Grant.  His  hero,  Sybrandt 
Westbrook,  is  not  the  usual  romantic  figure,  being  shy  and  even  awkward, 
but  he  eventually  wins  the  heroine.  A  vivid  description  of  the  defeat  of 
Abercrombie  before  Ticonderoga  anticipates  Cooper's  later  use  of  the 
battle.  This  novel,  Paulding's  best,  was  translated  into  French  and  Dutch. 
His  romance  of  Kentucky,  Westward  Ho!  (1833),  combined  with  some 
skill  the  interest  of  the  frontier  and  that  of  hereditary  madness.  In  this 
case  he  followed  Cooper,  for  the  best  character  is  that  of  the  white 


220  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

hunter,  Bushfield.  The  Old  Continental:  or  The  Price  of  Liberty  (1846), 
was  written  earlier,  and  was  intended  to  show  the  sacrifice  of  the  humbler 
patriots  in  the  Revolution.  Life  in  West  Chester  County,  and  the  horrors 
of  the  British  prison  ship  are  realistically  described,  and  Andre's  capture 
forms  the  climax  of  the  romance.  Paulding's  last  novel,  The  Puritan  and 
His  Daughter  (1849)  is  an  attack  on  prejudice,  as  it  existed  in  Virginia 
and  New  England  at  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century,  made  concrete 
in  the  Cavalier,  Hugh  Tyringham,  and  the  Puritan,  Harold  Habingdon, 
who  are  enemies  in  the  conflict  between  Charles  I  and  Cromwell. 

Paulding's  short  stories  are  usuallv  tales  of  incident  but  in  his  "Dumb 
Girl"  in  Tales  of  the  Good  Woman  (1829)  he  approaches  the  short  story 
of  character.  His  Life  of  Washington  (1835),  while  conventional,  has  a 
sympathetic  conception  of  the  symmetry  of  Washington's  character. 

Paulding's  verse  is  usually  narrative  and  often  satiric,  as  in  The  Lay  of 
the  Scottish  Fiddle  (181 3)  published  as  a  burlesque  on  the  work  of  Scott, 
but  containing  criticisms  of  political  conditions  in  America  and  the  con- 
duct of  the  British  in  the  War  of  1812.  President  Madison  was  attracted 
by  Paulding's  work  and  appointed  him  secretary  to  the  Commissioners  of 
the  Navy  in  1 8 15.  Paulding  was  a  liberal  Democrat  in  politics  and  his 
Letters  from  the  South  (1817)  and  his  Slavery  in  America  (1836)  reveal 
a  broader  outlook  on  these  matters  than  was  customary.  In  1824  he  be- 
came Navy  Agent  for  New  York  and  in  1838  Secretary  of  the  Navy  in 
Van  Buren's  cabinet.  Paulding's  other  narrative  verse  The  Backwoods- 
man (18 18)  was  hardly  successful,  but  it  contained  two  lines 

Whate'er  may  happen,  wheresoe'er  we  roam, 
However  homely,  still  there's  naught  like  home. 

which  anticipate  Payne's  famous  song  by  five  years.  The  love  of  his  own 
home  and  country,  was  Paulding's  most  consistent  trait.  But  his  keen 
sight  for  human  weaknesses  and  his  impatience  with  improbability  kept 
him  from  achieving  the  heights  of  romance. 


Paulding  remained  at  home  but  John  Neal  (1793- 1876),  a  curious 
combination  of  an  advocate  and  a  destructive  critic  of  American  ac- 
complishment, invaded  Great  Britain  in  order  to  prove  that  an  American 
could  match  his  strength  with  British  writers.  Born  in  Maine,  he  studied 
law,  edited  magazines,  first  in  Baltimore,  where  he  also  wrote,  too  hastily, 
narrative  and  dramatic  verse  and  five  novels.  His  play,  Otho  (18 19),  was 
written  for  the  well-known  actor,  Cooper,  but  it  seems  not  to  have  been 
produced.  It  has  his  usual  incoherence  with  occasional  moments  of  dig- 
nity. Neal's  verse,  which  he  published  in  18 18  under  the  name  of  Jehu 
O'Cataract,  consisted  of  a  highly  idealized  account  of  the  Battle  of 
Niagara,  in  the  War  of  18 12,  in  which  the  conflict  is  barely  reached  in 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES  221 

the  fourth  canto,  and  Goldcni;  or,  The  Maniac  Harper,  laid  in  Switzer- 
land, and  celebrating  liberty.  Among  these  Byronic  echoes  and  generally 
confused  symbolism  there  are  some  good  lines. 

Among  Neal's  early  novels,  two  have  real  merit.  Seventy-Six  (1823), 
a  romance  of  the  Revolution,  laid  mainly  in  the  Aliddle  States,  contains 
spirited  descriptions  of  the  crossing  of  the  Delaware  and  the  Battle  of 
Trenton,  as  well  as  some  passionate  love-making.  Randolph  (1823),  told 
by  means  of  letters,  showed  a  power  of  building  up  a  superman,  Molton 
or  Randolph,  who  is  a  Byronic  character,  and  dominates  every  woman  he 
meets.  Neal  interrupts  the  story  to  criticize  English  and  American  writers, 
sometimes  with  penetration  and  often  quite  absurdly,  but  always  posi- 
tively. 

Keep  Cool  (18 17),  which  attacks  dueling,  is  immature.  Logan  (1822), 
a  story  of  colonial  and  Indian  life,  has  some  merit  in  the  descriptions  of 
the  forest,  but  is  too  rambling  in  plot.  So  is  Errata  (1823),  the  adventures 
of  a  morbidly  sensitive  and  passionate  man. 

In  1823  Neal  went  to  England,  and  secured  admission  to  Blackwood's 
Magazine  for  his  critical  articles  on  American  writers  and  American 
art,  written  as  though  the  unknown  author  was  an  Englishman.  In  1825 
he  published  Brother  Jonathan,  a  study  of  American  character,  primarily 
for  foreign  consumers,  with  emphasis  upon  the  vulgarity  of  New  York, 
the  cupidity  of  New  England,  and  the  ignorance  of  the  Quakers.  Neal 
returned  in  1827  9  and  published  his  magazine  The  Yankee  in  Portland 
or  Boston  during  1828  and  1829.  Here  he  gave  Poe  his  first  real  encourage- 
ment and  continued  his  critical  articles.  His  novel  of  Salem  witchcraft, 
Rachel  Dyer  (1828),  is  too  argumentative.  In  Authorship  (1830),  an  un- 
usual story  laid  in  England,  Neal  gives  through  the  eyes  of  the  heroine 
some  very  good  advice  by  which  he  could  have  profited.— "Suffering,— 
torture,— death— anything  may  become  familiar  and  tamed  of  its  horrors 
bv  repetition— One  ceases  to  sympathize  in  such  gratuitous  and  self  in- 
flicted misery."  The  Down  Rasters  (1833),  is  a  wild  tale,  and  when  he 
resumed  the  writing  of  fiction  in  True  Womanhood  (1859),  he  sank  his 
story  in  the  meshes  of  the  theological  revivals  of  the  period. 

Attempts  have  recently  been  made  to  revive  interest  in  Neal's  criticisms 
of  literature  and  art,  included  in  his  fiction,  or  in  periodicals,  as  late  as 
1869  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly.  He  constantly  repeats  himself  in  these 
articles.  At  times  Neal  is  a  prophet  of  things  to  come.  In  Randolph,  he 
anticipated  modern  thinking  in  his  plea  for  functionalism  in  architecture. 
He  preached  the  necessity  of  prose  realism  in  drama  and  fiction,  while 
writing  Otho  in  verse  and  never  drawing  a  real  character  in  his  novels. 
His  own  description  of  his  articles  in  Blackwood's  on  American  writers, 
"We  have  been  giving  a  critical  history  of  the  literature  of  a  whole 

9  In  his  autobiography,  Wandering  Recollections  of  a  Somewhat  Busy  Life  (1869), 
he  says,  p.  267,  that  he  returned  in  1826  and  on  page  323  that  it  was  in  1827. 


222  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

people,  without  having  a  book  to  refer  to— altogether  from  recollection," 
is  sufficient  evidence  of  its  lack  of  value.  It  has  no  basic  principles  of 
criticism,  being  merely  his  opinion  of  certain  authors,  arranged  alpha- 
betically, but  it  is  exasperating  in  its  similarity  to  certain  popular  "criti- 
cism" of  today. 

In  his  criticisms  of  painting  he  also  was  tempted  into  clever  destructive 
phrase-making.  His  judgments  are  personal  and  deal  with  individuals 
rather  than  basic  principles,  although  he  almost  stumbled  on  the  theory 
of  impressionism.  But  here  again  his  judgments,  such  as  his  estimate  of 
Rembrandt  Peale  as  the  greatest  of  his  family,  have  been  reversed,  and 
he  failed  to  see  the  real  qualities  of  Stuart  and  Sully.  When  one  has  seen 
the  Stuart  portrait  of  Dolly  A4adison  or  the  daughters  of  Robert  Morris 
and  reads  Neal's  dictum  that  Stuart  never  painted  a  tolerable  woman,  all 
one  can  do  is  to  smile. 


Without  insisting  too  sharply  upon  the  distinctions  between  the  phases 
of  romanticism  which  Irving  and  Cooper  represented,  it  is  possible  to 
credit  to  their  influences  two  schools  of  writing  among  the  next  genera- 
tion. The  most  important  of  those  who  represent  the  Irving  pattern, 
Nathaniel  Parker  Willis,  shared,  with  him  at  one  time  the  widest  popu- 
larity here  and  abroad  and  yet  is  now  unjustly  deprived  of  some  of  the 
laurels  he  won  so  lightly.  Willis  was  born  in  Portland,  Maine,  January  20, 
1806,  graduated  from  Yale  College  in  1827,  and  leaving  New  England, 
he  said,  on  account  of  its  narrowness,  he  joined  George  P.  Morris  in 
editing  the  New  York  Mirror.  In  183 1,  after  publishing  a  volume  of 
verse,  Willis  went  abroad  as  foreign  correspondent,  and  spent  five  years 
wandering  through  Europe  from  England  to  the  East.  Like  Irving,  Willis 
was  interested  in  the  social  life  of  the  countries  he  visited,  and  he  met 
interesting  people,  making  himself  known,  liked,  and  respected.  Willis  in 
a  certain  way  succeeded  to  Irving's  role  as  ambassador  in  letters  at  large 
from  the  United  States  to  Europe,  and  linked  through  this  office  his  re- 
lation to  Lowell's  later  more  official  ministry.  His  letters  to  the  Mirror 
were  published  in  1835  as  Pencilling*  by  the  Way,  still  readable  for  the 
pictures  of  the  society  of  statesmen  and  men  of  letters  who  gathered  at 
Lady  Blessington's  salon  in  London.  His  Inklings  of  Adventure  (1836), 
a  series  of  papers  he  had  contributed  to  English  magazines,  dealt  more 
definitely  with  native  material.  Stories  based  on  his  life  at  Yale  or  on 
Indian  characters  mingle  with  sketches  of  his  wanderings  in  foreign  lands. 
In  a  long  short  story,  "Edith  Linsey,"  Willis  draws  an  interesting  con- 
trast between  those  who  merely  read  words  and  those  whose  sensitivity 
ro  the  scenes  of  which  they  read  adds  insight  that  enhances  greatly  the 
effect.  "Paul  Slingsby,"  the  hero  of  several  of  the  sketches,  came  from 
Irving's  Sketch  Book. 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES  223 

After  his  marriage  to  Alary  Stace,  an  English  girl,  he  retired  for  five 
years  to  Glenmary,  near  the  headwaters  of  the  Susquehanna  River,  and 
wrote  his  familiar  essays,  A  V  Abri:  or.  The  Tent  Pitched  (1839),  after- 
wards called  Letters  from  Under  a  Bridge.  They  have  a  flavor  unusual  in 
the  essay,  a  delight  in  nature  with  a  note  of  nostalgia  for  the  city,  mingled 
with  criticism  of  contemporary  writers  and  Willis's  own  views  of  life. 
When  he  replies  to  the  criticisms  of  recent  British  travelers  to  the  United 
States,  he  takes  exactly  the  right  tone  of  amusement  and  carries  the  war 
into  Africa  by  attributing  their  strictures  upon  our  deficiencies  to  their 
agencies  in  stimulating  British  trade: 

Hamilton's  book  was  scarcely  dry  from  the  press  before  orders  were  made 
out  to  an  immense  extent  for  egg-cups  and  silver  forks.  Mrs.  Trollope  quite 
extinguished  the  trade  in  spit-boxes,  and  made  fortunes  for  the  finger  glass 
manufacturers;  and  Captain  Maryatt,  I  understand,  is  besieged  in  every  city 
by  the  importers,  to  know  upon  what  deficiency  of  table  furniture  he  intends 
to  be  severe.  It  has  been  more  than  once  suggested  (and  his  manners  aided  the 
idea)  that  Hamilton  was  probably  a  travelling  agent  for  the  plated-fork 
manufactories  of  Birmingham. 

Willis's  remarkable  ability  at  the  selection  of  the  fitting  word  may  be 
illustrated  in  his  description  of  the  dinner  at  Lady  Blessington's  when 
she  helped  D'Israeli  to  gain  a  footing: 

With  a  tact  of  which  the  subtle  ease  and  grace  can  in  no  way  be  conveyed 
into  description,  she  gathered  up  the  cobweb  threads  of  conversation  going  at 
different  parts  of  the  table,  and  by  the  most  apparent  accident,  flung  them 
into  D 'Israeli's  fingers,  like  the  ribands  of  a  four  in  hand. 

Lowell,  with  instinctive  recognition  of  kindred  talent,  selected  A  V Abri 
in  his  Table  for  Critics  as  the  most  significant  prose  of  Willis.  It  is  prob- 
able that  Willis  would  have  preferred  to  remain  at  Glenmary,  for  here 
he  wrote  his  best  work,  including  his  verse  plays,  to  be  treated  under 
the  drama. 

His  poise  is  illustrated  in  a  sentence,  "The  only  part  of  calumny  that 
I  ever  found  troublesome  was  my  friends'  insisting  upon  being  unhappy 
about  it."  In  his  Romance  of  Trav-el  (1840)  the  sketches  are  more  defi- 
nitely fiction,  romantic  and  idealistic,  and  usually  on  foreign  themes,  but 
interesting  through  that  dramatic  instinct  which  showed  in  his  plays. 
One,  dealing  with  frontier  woods,  of  his  native  country,  "The  Picker 
and  Piler,"  is  a  powerful  story  of  the  revenge  of  a  father  who  takes  ad- 
vantage of  the  natural  movements  of  a  tree  to  crush  the  seducer  of  his 
daughter. 

Financial  necessity  drove  Willis  back  to  periodical  management  in  the 
New  Mirror,  and  the  tragic  death  of  his  wife  sent  him  abroad  to  recover 
his  health.  In  1 846  he  married  Cornelia  Grinnell,  and  began  his  association 
with  the  Home  Journal  to  which  he  contributed  his  talent  for  the  rep- 


224  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

resentation  of  social  life,  until  his  death  in  1867.  Willis's  social  success 
was  due  not  only  to  his  good  breeding  but  to  his  sincere  interest  in 
people,  and  his  pride  in  his  craft.  During  the  early  forties  he  was,  next 
to  Irving,  the  best  known  American  writer  at  home  and  abroad,  and  he 
used  his  position  to  help  his  fellow  craftsmen.  He  literally  saved  Poe  from 
starvation,  and  rushed  to  his  defence  against  Griswold's  attack.  He  gave 
Taylor  his  start  and  named  Views  Afoot  for  him.  Willis's  democracy 
was  artistic  as  well  as  social,  and  in  his  fiction  and  essays  he  conducted 
a  crusade  for  the  establishment  of  the  artist  in  his  rightful  position  in 
society. 

In  his  novel,  Paul  Fane  (1857),  the  hero,  a  young  American  painter, 
is  stung  by  the  attitude  of  an  English  girl  that  while  she  can  appreciate 
his  professional  ability,  he  is  a  social  inferior  to  her.  His  determination  to 
conquer  recognition  from  her  class  not  only  as  an  artist  but  also  as  a 
person,  takes  him  to  Italy  and  England.  Willis  shows  through  Fane's 
career  the  material  basis  of  social  distinction  in  Europe,  while  the  more 
rapid  rise  and  fall  of  fortunes  in  America  makes  social  gradations  more 
fluid. 

Willis  had  sold  Glenmary  in  1842  and  in  1850  purchased  fifty  acres 
on  the  west  bank  of  the  highlands  of  the  Hudson  River.  This  home  be- 
came known  as  "Idle wild."  Here  he  hoped  to  regain  his  health.  Willis 
published  his  Collected  Prose  Works  in  1846  to  which  he  added  "Eph- 
emera" in  1852.  His  later  prose  writings  have  been  dismissed  entirely 
too  cavalierly  by  those  who  have  accepted  the  conventional  statement 
that  he  did  all  his  good  work  before  1845.  But  while  Outdoors  at  Idlewild 
(1855)  and  The  Convalescent  (1859)  have  not  quite  the  same  spontaneity 
as  A  PAbri,  there  is  a  similar  tone,  which  belongs  only  to  the  real  familiar 
essay,  that  of  a  charming  confidence  in  the  interest  and  sympathy  of 
the  reader.  The  delightful  chapter  describing  his  visit  to  Irving  reveals 
his  understanding  of  his  literary  model,  and  one  passage  in  particular 
shows  how  a  fine  grained  nature  can  interpret  another: 

Like  everybody  else  who  is  so  happy  as  to  know  him  I  have  yielded  to  his 
spell— I  have  brought  away  the  impression,  however,  I  may  venture  to  say  that 
a  modesty  amounting  almost  to  diffidence,  and  a  most  unusual  degree  of 
instinctive  deferential  courtesy,  are  the  two  natural  qualities  at  the  bottom  of 
it.  His  intellectual  culture,  and  his  refinement  and  knowledge  of  the  world 
have,  of  course,  given  grace  and  ease  to  these  sometimes  embarrassing  restraints: 
and  genius,  of  course,  with  its  intuitiveness  of  perception,  does  that  finer 
justice  with  its  looks  and  words  which  is  so  agreeable  in  social  intercourse: 
but,  in  his  presence,  all  alike  seem  made  happier.10 

For  the  same  reason  his  picture  of  Bayard  Taylor's  visit  to  Idlewild  re- 
veals Willis's  ability  to  appreciate  the  finer  shades  of  a  friend's  char- 
acter. 

10  The  Convalescent,  p.  143. 


NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES 


"5 


Some  of  Willis's  best  poetry  is  to  be  found  in  his  verse  plays,  and  the 
two  narrative  poems  that  will  remain  longest,  at  least  in  anthologies,  owe 
their  excellence  in  part  to  their  dramatic  quality.  "Unseen  Spirits,"  was 
the  tragic  contrast  of  two  women  on  Broadway.  In  "Parrhasius"  Willis 
drew  the  picture  of  an  Athenian  painter  who  tortures  his  slave  in  order 
to  achieve  fame  through  the  reality  of  his  picture  of  Prometheus.  There 
is  an  appealing  contrast  in  Willis's  "Lines  on  leaving  Europe,"  in  which 
his  love  for  Wales  and  England  yields  only  to  his  devotion  to  his  native 
land.  His  last  years  were  a  tragic  struggle  against  attacks  of  epilepsy, 
but  with  a  pride  which  forbade  him  to  accept  help  he  had  so  generously 
given  to  others,  he  kept  on  working  in  New  York,  returning  only  to 
Idlewild  to  die. 

Willis  wrote  too  much  and  the  facility  which  made  his  work  immedi- 
ately popular  has  hurt  it  in  modern  critical  judgment.  He  was  the  epitome 
of  the  romantic  idealistic  literature  of  the  thirties  and  forties,  and  the 
classic-realistic  reaction  of  the  seventies  left  him  stranded  in  that  merciless 
critical  limbo  which  is  kept  for  the  nearly-great.  But  America  misses 
something  fine  by  neglecting  this  urbane  and  generous  lover  of  human 
nature  whose  delight  in  the  fitting  phrase  was  only  one  evidence  of  the 
good  taste  which  enabled  him  to  see  beneath  the  surface  of  that  com- 
plicated stratum  of  human  beings,  which  we  have  agreed  to  call  society. 


Chapter  14 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND 
THE  FRONTIER 


The  most  distinct  impression  that  remains  after  reading  Cooper's  letters, 
either  personal  or  public,  is  that  of  vigor,  of  persistence,  of  loyalty  to 
friends,  of  wide  interests  and  of  impatience  with  criticism  and  opposition. 
To  many  of  his  fictional  characters  he  transferred  these  qualities.  Thev 
are  best  when  they  breathe,  as  he  did,  the  open  air,  and  are  free  of  au- 
thority, their  own  men. 

He  was  Sorn  James  Cooper  at  Burlington,  New  Jersey,  September  15, 
1789.  It  was  only  in  1826  that  his  name  was  changed  to  James  Fenimore- 
Cooper,  at  the  request  of  his  mother,  Susan  Fenimore,  and  he  soon 
dropped  the  hyphen.  His  father,  William  Cooper,  owned  a  large  estate 
on  Otsego  Lake,  New  York,  near  the  headwaters  of  the  Susquehanna 
River,  and  from  1790  Cooper  grew  up  in  the  frontier  atmosphere  of 
Cooperstown.  Here  he  met  a  variety  of  tvpes,  native  and  foreign,  manv 
of  them  en  route  to  the  west.  William  Cooper  ruled  in  a  semifeudal  state 
over  his  property  and  his  son  breathed  in  the  idea  of  the  value  of  land,  as 
the  only  permanent  possession,  upon  which  a  patrician,  governing  a 
democracy,  could  found  a  proper  and  permanent  state  of  society.  He 
entered  Yale  College,  failing  to  graduate  however  through  an  infrac- 
tion of  college  laws.  In  the  autumn  of  1806  he  went  to  sea  from  New  j 
York  in  the  Sterling,  serving  before  the  mast,  in  order  to  gain  experience 
before  entering  the  Navy.  He  was  on  this  cruise  during  one  year  and 
was  commissioned  as  ensign  in  the  Navy,  January  1,  1808.  The  record 
of  his  life  in  the  Navy  is  scant;  he  bisected  on  one  occasion  Lake  Ontario 
and  probably  this  was  of  service  to  him  in  the  light  of  his  description  of 
the  lake  in  the  Pathfinder.  He  married  January,  181 1,  Susan  Augusta 
DeLancey  and  resigned  from  the  service.  They  lived  in  Scarsdale,  West- 
chester County,  New  York,  until  18 13,  when  they  moved  to  Coopers- 
town,  occupying  a  farm  which  they  called  "Fenimore,"  then  returned 

226 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        227 

to  Westchester  and  remained  either  in  that  still  lovely  country,  or  in  New 
York  City,  until  1826. 

According-  to  Cooper's  daughter,  Susan,  her  grandmother  and  her 
father  were  both  lovers  of  fiction,  and  he  began  to  write  Precaution  in 
1 8 19,  in  consequence  of  his  reading  aloud  an  English  novel  of  social  life, 
and  exclaiming  that  he  could  write  a  better  one  himself.  Precaution  was 
published  in  November,  1820,  and  was  fairly  well  received,  although  to 
use  Cooper's  own  language,  "the  knowledge  it  betrayed  of  English  so- 
ciety was  of  the  most  worthless  and  superficial  kind."  1  Cooper  had  no 
gift  for  the  story  of  intrigue,  but  although  he  published  Precaution  pri- 
vately it  had  a  fair  reception  and  was  even  translated  into  French  in  March 
1825.  Some  of  the  minor  characters  like  Mrs.  Wilson,  the  terrible  aunt 
of  Emily  Moseley,  the  heroine,  are  fairly  real,  but  the  picture  of  British 
society  is  artificial. 

Precaution  is  important  solely  because  it  taught  Cooper  that  he  could 
write,  and  he  wisely  selected  for  his  first  great  novel  scenes  and  char- 
acters with  which  he  was  familiar.  Some  years  before,  John  Jay  had  told 
him  of  a  spy  who,  though  patriotic,  had  pretended  to  be  a  British  agent, 
in  order  to  serve  his  country  better  and  had  been  persecuted  in  conse- 
quence. Cooper  stated  clearly  in  his  preface  to  an  edition  of  The  Spy, 
written  in  183 1  and  revised  in  1849,  that  he  had  no  real  person  in  mind. 
He  created  Harvey  Birch,  the  shrewd,  commonplace  peddler,  whose 
business  made  plausible  his  constant  passage  of  the  disputed  territory  of 
Westchester.  Cooper's  sense  of  drama  led  him  to  make  Birch  inarticulate, 
and  his  stoic  sufferings  at  the  hands  of  his  own  countrymen  provide 
some  of  the  best  scenes  in  the  book.  Birch's  refusal  to  accept  payment 
for  his  services,  Cooper  transferred  from  his  real  interview  with  John 
Jay,  who  had  secured  the  appropriation  by  Congress,  to  Washington, 
with  heightened  effect.  The  father  of  his  country  is  provided  with  more 
natural  vocabulary  than  he  was  usually  given  by  novelists  of  that  day. 
The  Wharton  family,  with  its  divided  loyalties,  were  evidently  sug- 
gested by  the  DeLanceys,  who  had  been  Tories  in  the  Revolution,  and 
Cooper  well  knew  that  that  war  had  been  carried  through  by  a  determined 
minority,  against  the  open  opposition  of  the  Tories  and  the  inertia  of 
a  large  share  of  the  population.  The  officers,  both  American  and  British, 
are  competently  drawn  and  in  Betty  Flanagan,  Cooper  gave  us  one  of  his 
most  amusing  women.  The  details  of  the  publication  of  The  Spy,  as  given 
by  the  author  himself,  reveal  the  discouraging  caution  of  the  publishers. 

So  little  was  expected  from  an  American  work  in  that  day,  that  the  new  tale 
got  on  very  slowly.  It  was  printed  as  it  was  written,  and  a  copy  of  the  first 
volume,  bound,  lay  about  my  house  several  weeks,  before  a  line  of  the  second 
volume  was  thought  of. Wiley  began  to  feel  that  the  book  would  be  made 

1  Cooper's  autobiographical  sketch,  printed  in  Marcel  Clavel,  Fenimore  Cooper 
and  his  Critics  (1938),  p.  395. 


228  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

too  long  for  profit;  to  set  his  heart  at  ease,  the  last  chapter  was  printed  and 
paged,  before  several  of  the  preceding  chapters  were  even  conceived.2 

The  Spy  appeared,  complete,  in  November,  182 1.  Its  success  was  im- 
mediate, three  editions  being  called  for  bv  the  summer  of  1822.  On 
March  1,  1822,  a  dramatization  by  C.  P.  Clinch  began  at  the  Park  Theatre, 
New  York,  its  long  career.  It  was  translated  into  French  in  1822  and 
ultimately  into  practically  all  European  languages.  Yet  its  reception  by 
native  critics  was  hardly  encouraging. 

With  The  Pioneers  (1823)  Cooper  created  the  novel  of  the  frontier,  as 
distinguished  from  the  mere  romances  of  adventure,  like  Imlay's,  which 
had  preceded  him.  For  in  Natty  Bumppo,  the  white  hunter,  he  created 
one  of  his  finest  characters.  Natty  is  only  a  preliminary  sketch  in  The 
Pioneers,  in  fact  he  is  rather  a  querulous  old  man  at  times,  but  the  figure 
was  there.  So  was  Chingachgook,  the  stoical  Indian,  who  made  his  first  ap- 
pearance. The  Pioneers  is  based  on  Cooper's  own  experiences  at  Otsego 
Lake,  opening  in  1793  and  linking  the  colonial  tradition  with  the  new 
conditions  after  the  Revolution. 

Cooper's  inventive  power  was  shown  when  he  introduced  in  his  next 
story  The  Pilot  (1824)  a  new  form  of  sea  story,  differing  from  that  of 
Scott,  whose  Pirate  was  the  occasion  for  Cooper's  attempt.  The  Pirate 
lies  mostly  on  the  land,  and  Cooper  saw  the  opportunity  to  write  a  novel 
such  as  only  a  real  sailor  could  produce.  He  realized  instinctively  that 
readers  wish  only  enough  of  the  technical  language  of  shipping  to  prove 
the  author's  competence.  What  they  desire  is  the  story  of  human  action 
upon  the  sea,  especially  when  human  skill  is  matched  triumphantly  against 
the  power  of  the  waters.  The  foremost  figure  is  the  "Pilot,"  John  Paul 
Jones,  the  great  sea  captain  of  the  Revolution,  whose  full  name  is  not 
mentioned  in  the  novel.  He  remains  a  mysterious  figure,  appearing  at 
the  right  moments  to  save  the  American  frigate  and  her  little  consort. 
The  Pilot  revealed  his  power  to  describe  a  sea  fight  in  the  contest  be- 
tween the  Alacrity  and  the  Ariel,  or  in  the  stirring  passage  of  the  frigate 
through  the  Devil's  Grip.  The  love  stories  are  a  bit  hopeless  but  The 
Pilot  is  not  read  for  them.  While  their  characters  are  not  remembered, 
however,  that  of  Long  Tom  Coffin,  of  Nantucket  and  the  Ariel,  is  a 
very  living  person. 

Cooper  took  his  family  to  Europe  in  1826,  and  remained  until  1833, 
accepting  a  temporary  appointment  as  consul  at  Lyons  simply  to  give 
him  status,  and  continuing  his  main  purpose,  the  writing  of  fiction.  He 
lived  mainly  in  England  and  France  and  his  comments  on  the  society 
which  welcomed  him,  as  they  are  included  in  his  "Gleanings,"  are  shrewd 
and  pictorial. 

In  arriving  at  a  just  estimate  of  Cooper's  achievement,  it  is  best  not 

2  Autobiographical  sketch  in  Clavel,  pp.  395-396.  Also  Preface  to  The  Spy. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        229 

to  follow  strict  chronology,  but  to  group  his  important  novels  according 
to  their  prevailing  interest.  The  novels  of  the  frontier  are  his  most  sig- 
nificant contribution.  In  1826  The  Last  of  the  Mohicans  brought  into  play 
all  the  resources  of  romance:  the  splendor  and  horror  of  war,  the  gal- 
lantry of  the  soldier  in  Heywood,  the  courage  of  the  brave  woman  in 
Cora,  these  are  conventional  elements,  but  for  the  first  time,  the  forest, 
no  mere  background,  but  alive  with  the  terrors  of  the  Indian  trail,  kindles 
in  the  reader  some  innate  sympathy  with  human  hope  and  fear.  Then 
comes  the  scout,  Hawkeye,  or  Natty  Bumppo,  younger  and  more  vivid 
than  he  was  in  The  Pioneers,  who  can  not  only  save  his  friends  from  the 
forest  but  can  turn  the  secrets  of  the  woods  into  allies  against  the  terror. 
Chingachgook  reappears,  but  the  younger  Indian  chieftain,  Uncas,  forms 
the  centre  of  attraction.  The  scene  in  which  Uncas  reveals  the  totem  of 
the  turtle,  the  sign  of  his  chieftainship,  to  the  Delawares  and  brings  back 
the  lost  self-respect  of  his  tribe  is  magnificent.  So  too,  is  his  prophecy 
ringing  with  the  hope  that  "when  the  Manitto  is  ready,  we  will  follow 
the  river  to  the  sea  and  take  our  own  again!"  The  rush  of  incident  is 
tremendous  and  even  as  this  is  written  another  moving  picture  of  The 
Last  of  the  Mohicans  testifies  to  its  perennial  appeal. 

In  The  Prairie  (1827),  the  frontier  moves  a  thousand  miles  to  the  west. 
Hawkeye  is  set  against  the  background  of  the  far  west  and  faces  with 
dignity  his  approaching  union  with  the  elemental  life  of  which  he  has 
become  one  of  the  greatest  symbols  in  fiction.  Again  he  saves  his  friends 
by  fighting  fire  with  fire.  The  climax  comes  when  the  old  hunter  thinks 
he  hears  a  voice  calling  him: 

The  hour— the  calm  beauty  of  the  season— the  occasion,  all  conspired  to  fill 
the  spectators  with  solemn  awe.  Suddenly,  while  musing  on  the  remarkable 
position  in  which  he  was  placed,  Middleton  felt  the  hand  which  he  held  grasp 
his  own  with  incredible  power,  and  the  old  man,  supported  on  either  side  by 
his  friends,  rose  upright  to  his  feet.  For  a  moment  he  looked  about  him,  as 
if  to  invite  all  in  presence  to  listen  (the  lingering  remnant  of  human  frailty), 
and  then,  with  a  fine  military  elevation  of  the  head,  and  with  a  voice  that 
might  be  heard  in  every  part  of  that  numerous  assembly,  he  pronounced 
the  word— 
"Here!" 

This  imaginative  scene  which  portrays  the  human  power  to  cross  in 
spirit  the  chasm  of  death  has  been  found  worthy  of  imitation  by  several 
novelists,  including  Thackeray  in  his  famous  death  scene  of  Colonel 
Newcome. 

In  The  Pathfinder  (1840),  Cooper  revived  Natty  Bumppo,  and  pro- 
vided him  with  his  one  rather  mature  love  story.  His  sacrifice  in  releasing 
Mabel  Dunham  from  her  promise  to  her  father  to  wed  Natty  was  note- 
worthy in  those  days  of  the  sentimental  romance,  when  Mabel  would 
have  made  her  lover  and  herself  unhappy  and  would  have  died  of  a  broken 


2 3o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

heart.  Cooper  closed  the  series  of  which  Natty,  Hawkeye,  or  Leather- 
stocking  is  the  centre,  in  one  of  the  best  of  them  all.  In  The  Deer  slayer 
(1841),  Hawkeye  is  a  young  man,  revealing  his  greatest  characteristic, 
self-respect,  in  his  quiet  refusal  to  marry  Judy  Hutter  whom  he  does  not 
respect  and  in  his  return  to  keep  his  parole  with  the  Indians,  though  he 
faces  torture  and  death.  One  of  the  strongest  characterizations  among 
Cooper's  "females"  is  the  abnormal  Hetty  Hutter,  who  appears  in  this 
novel.  The  Deerslayer,  although  written  last,  should  be  the  first  of  the 
series  to  be  read.  Cooper  imbued  Deerslayer  with  his  own  poetic  con- 
ception of  nature,  skilfully  refraining  from  overdoing  it. 

To  this  group  of  pioneer  novels  belongs  also  The  Wept  of  Wish-ton- 
Wish  (1829),  a  tale  of  the  late  seventeenth  century  in  Connecticut.  The 
best  drawn  character  is  Conanchet,  the  son  of  Miantonimoh,  chieftain  of 
the  Narragansetts.  He  has  the  Indian  devotion  to  his  word  and  loyalty 
to  his  benefactors,  the  Heathcotes,  who  have  befriended  him.  Goff,  the 
regicide,  under  the  name  "Submission"  is  brought  in  to  save  the  villagers 
from  the  Indian  attack.  In  Wyandotte  (1843),  there  is  an  unusual  Indian 
character,  whose  dual  nature  makes  him  save  Robert  Willoughby  and 
Maud  Meredith,  one  of  the  most  real  of  Cooper's  heroines,  and  again  as 
"Nick"  the  degenerate  Indian,  kill  Captain  Willoughby  for  revenge.  The 
story  is  laid  at  the  outbreak  of  the  Revolution  in  what  later  became  Tryon 
County,  New  York.  In  one  of  Cooper's  latest  novels,  Oak  Openings 
(1849),  he  returned  to  the  frontier,  in  Michigan,  at  the  outbreak  of  the 
War  of  181 2.  It  is  not  one  of  his  outstanding  narratives,  but  the  central 
character,  the  "Bee  Hunter"  is  an  original  conception. 

Of  the  eleven  novels  in  which  the  sea  is  the  main  interest,  The  Pilot, 
The  Red  Rover  (1827),  The  Two  Admirals  (1842),  and  Afloat  and 
Ashore  (1844),  are  among  his  best,  with  Wing  and  Wing  (1843),  and 
Miles  Wallingford  (1844),  pressing  them  closely.  The  Water-Witch 
(1830),  Jack  Tier  (1848),  and  the  Sea  Lions  (1849),  are  only  fair.  In  The 
Red  Rover,  Cooper  laid  the  scene  largely  in  the  reign  of  George  II,  but 
the  central  character  of  the  gentlemanly  pirate,  Captain  Heidegger,  is 
purely  imaginary.  Cooper  was  aware  of  the  perennial  appeal  of  the  moral 
contrast  in  fiction,  and  the  interplay  of  illegal  actions  and  lofty  motives 
makes  the  pirate  an  intriguing  figure.  He  overshadows  the  love  interest, 
as  usual,  in  this  type  of  romance. 

The  Tvoo  Admirals  is  even  better,  and  here  the  historical  background 
strengthens  the  interest  of  the  story  until  it  reaches  the  magnificent 
climax  of  the  battle  between  the  French  and  English  fleets.  The  funda- 
mental impulses  of  dramatic  literature,  self-preservation,  loyalty,  friend- 
ship, and  patriotism,  combine  in  this  gripping  scene.  Cooper  made  them 
concrete  in  the  two  admirals  of  the  British  fleet,  Oakes  and  Bluewater, 
life-long  friends,  who  are  in  command  of  two  sections  of  the  fleet.  Blue- 
water  hears  that  Charles  Edward,  the  Stuart  claimant  to  the  British  throne 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        231 

in  1745,  has  landed  in  Scotland.  He  is  a  devoted  follower  of  the  Stunrt 
cause  and,  knowing  that  the  French  fleet  is  going  to  the  aid  of  Prince 
Charlie,  he  is  caught  between  the  divided  loyalties  to  his  friend  and 
commanding  officer  and  to  the  prince  he  believes  is  the  rightful  heir  to 
the  throne.  After  a  tense  struggle  he  decides,  and  there  are  few  more 
thrilling  moments  in  fiction  than  those  in  which  Bluewatcr  dashes  in  to 
the  rescue  of  his  friend  in  his  unequal  conflict  with  the  French  fleet.  The 
skill  with  which  Cooper  marshalls  the  battle  of  the  fleets  into  unitv  while 
preserving  the  individual  emotions  of  the  actors  in  vivid  scenes  such  as 
the  death  of  Bluewater,  is  epic  in  its  power.  Cooper's  sense  of  drama  led 
to  another  fine  scene,  when  years  later  Sir  Gervaise  Oakes  is  brought  to 
Westminster  Abbey  to  visit  the  memorial  to  Bluewater.  His  mind  has 
faltered,  but  the  sight  of  young  Wycherly  Wychecombe,  who  had  been 
on  his  ship  in  the  battle,  kindles  his  memory  until  he  lives  over  again  the 
supreme  moment  of  victory.  This  scene  has  been  the  inspiration  of  such 
a  vivid  drama  as  Conan  Doyle's  Waterloo,  in  which  Henrv  Irving  starred. 

Wing  and  Wing,  one  of  Cooper's  own  favorites,  carries  the  sea  fight 
into  the  Mediterranean  in  1798,  with  a  picturesque  captain  of  a  French 
privateer  as  a  hero.  Nelson  and  Lady  Hamilton  are  brought  in,  but  do  not 
add  greatly  to  the  story.  One  of  the  best  of  Cooper's  characters,  how- 
ever, is  Ithuel  Bolt,  a  New  Hampshire  man,  who  had  been  impressed  by 
the  British  and  fights  against  them  with  gusto.  His  mingled  honesty  and 
dishonesty,  courage  and  shrewdness,  keep  him  in  our  memory.  Afloat  and 
Ashore  owes  its  high  position  in  Cooper's  novels  not  so  much  to  the 
surprises  and  combats,  stirring  as  they  are,  but  to  one  of  his  few  thor- 
oughly satisfactory  love  stories,  that  of  Miles  Wallingford  and  Lucy 
Hardinge.  Their  boy  and  girl  friendship  is  a  charming  prelude  to  the 
deeper  love  that  comes  later.  The  sequel,  Miles  Wallingford,  is  somewhat 
of  an  anticlimax,  but  is  still  very  readable.  The  other  sea  stories  are  not 
up  to  Cooper's  standard,  though  they  hardly  deserve  the  neglect  into 
which  they  have  fallen,  Jack  Tier  revealing  Cooper's  liberality  in  his 
treatment  of  Mexico  at  a  time  just  subsequent  to  the  war. 

Cooper's  interest  in  history  achieved  its  best  results  when  he  combined 
this  motive  with  that  of  the  sea  as  in  The  Two  Admirals  or  The  Red 
Rover  or  with  the  frontier  as  in  the  Leatherstocking  series.  When  he  at- 
tempted a  second  novel  of  the  Revolution,  Lionel  Lincoln  (1825),  he 
failed  even  to  approach  The  Spy,  and  all  that  remains  is  the  spirited  de- 
scription of  Lexington  and  Concord.  But  a  murder  mystery  with  a 
British  officer  as  a  hero  invited  failure.  Cooper's  historic  sense  was  keen 
and  nearly  eighty  percent  of  his  novels  have  an  historic  flavor.  But  he 
had  to  know  and  care  greatly  for  his  material,  otherwise  he  could  pro- 
duce such  a  dull  story  as  Mercedes  of  Castile  (1840).  When  he  combined 
his  history  with  propaganda,  he  was  very  insecure  in  his  achievement. 
While  he  was  in  Europe  he  wrote  three  novels,  whose  purpose  was  to 


z32  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

prove  the  superiority  of  democracy  to  oligarchy,  by  showing  the  evil 
effects  of  the  latter.3  The  Bravo  ( 1 83 1 )  was  laid  in  Venice  during  the 
fifteenth  century,  when  the  Council  of  Ten  ruled  with  the  supreme 
power.  It  is  the  best  of  the  three,  but  the  Heidenmauer  (1832)  is  one  of  i 
his  distinct  failures.  It  is  laid  in  the  Palatinate  at  a  time  when  Luther's 
doctrines  were  spreading.  No  character  is  alive,  while  in  The  Headsman 
(1833)  at  least  the  public  executioner  of  Berne,  Balthazar,  who  is  forced  | 
through  the  power  of  custom  into  a  calling  he  abhors,  is  remembered. 
When  Cooper  used  the  sea  story  in  Homeward  Bound  (1838),  to  satirize 
social  conditions  in  the  United  States  and  Europe,  he  only  hurt  the  story, 
and  he  did  not  improve  the  situation  in  the  sequel  Home  as  Found  (1838). 
His  attack  on  the  small-town  mind  is  the  main  contribution  of  this  novel. 

The  combination  of  history,  the  frontier,  and  propaganda  varied  in  its 
success  inversely  with  the  amount  of  the  last.  In  the  forties  Cooper  be- 
came an  ardent  advocate  of  the  right  of  the  "patroons"  or  large  land- 
holders in  New  York  State  to  preserve  their  holdings  from  the  claims 
of  their  tenants  to  secure  ownership  of  their  farms.  Cooper  believed  that 
if  he  could  depict  the  struggles  of  the  early  pioneers,  the  ancestors  of 
the  "patroons,"  he  would  secure  sympathy  for  their  descendants.  His  own 
father's  right  to  Cooperstown  was  of  course  the  basis  of  his  belief.  Of  the 
trilogy  of  novels  dealing  with  this  "antirent  agitation,"  Satanstoe  (1845) 
in  which  the  scene  is  laid  near  Albany  in  1757  is  the  best.  The  social  life 
in  New  York  City,  the  theatre,  and  the  other  amusements  are  depicted 
with  skill.  "Corny"  Littlepage,  the  representative  of  the  "patroons"  and 
Anneke  Mordaunt  are  among  Cooper's  best-drawn  characters  and  the 
attack  of  Abercrombie  on  Ticonderoga  is  a  high  moment  in  the  novel. 
The  Chainbearers  (1846)  told  by  the  son  of  "Corny"  Littlepage  is  an 
entertaining  story,  in  which  the  enemies  of  the  Littlepages  are  no  longer 
the  Indians,  but  the  squatters  who  have  taken  illegally  the  land  of  his 
family.  But  the  propaganda  begins  to  become  tiresome  and  in  The  Red- 
skins (1846),  laid  in  Cooper's  own  day,  it  completely  submerges  the 
fiction.  When  the  propaganda  is  unrelieved  as  in  The  Manikins  (1835) 
or  The  Crater  (1847)  or  The  Ways  of  the  Hour  (1850),  Cooper  is  gen- 
erally tiresome.  There  is  unconscious  humor  in  his  Utopia  in  The  Crater, 
and  there  is  a  good  trial  scene  in  The  Ways  of  the  Hour,  but  as  fiction 
these  novels  need  not  detain  us. 

Although  Cooper's  propaganda  hurt  his  fiction,  his  direct  writings 
upon  social  and  political  aspects  of  life  in  this  and  other  countries,  while 
uneven  in  their  literary  form,  are  often  of  singular  interest  on  account 
of  his  penetrating  insight  into  national  strength  and  weakness.  In  1828 
he  published  anonymously  Notions  of  the  Americans  Picked  Up  by  a 
Travelling  Bachelor,  in  which  he  represented  a  European  writing  letters 

•"'  Sec  Cooper's  own  account  of  his  purpose  in  writing  The  Bravo  in  A  Letter  to 
His  Countrymen. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        233 

to  friends  in  England,  France,  Holland  and  elsewhere.  The  general  effect 
was  to  compare  favorably  our  manners,  customs,  and  fundamental  quali- 
ties with  those  of  foreign  nations,  especially  England,  often  through  the 
replies  which  an  American,  Cadwallader,  makes  to  the  inquiries  of  the 
European.  Our  character,  he  says,  is  founded  on  common  sense.  Many 
nations  excel  us  in  the  arts  but  none  in  the  truths  of  human  existence. 
Society,  in  its  limited  sense,  is  described  with  discrimination  mainly 
through  the  larger  cities.  "In  Philadelphia  it  is  less  interrupted  by  the 
intrusions  of  that  portion  of  the  world  which  is  purely  commercial," 
indicates  Cooper's  attitude  toward  that  element.  Baltimore  has  a  more 
"elegant"  society,  but  New  York  comes  off  best  as  to  its  people  and  its 
architecture.  Modern  drivers  will  smile  at  his  description  of  the  "avenues 
in  Washington,  parallel  to  nothing."  He  emphasizes  the  elevating  effect 
of  democracy,  and  defends  what  the  British  writers  on  our  civilization 
had  called  the  worship  of  money,  by  carrying  the  war  into  Africa  and 
showing  the  complete  dependence  of  the  structure  of  English  society 
upon  wealth.  He  is  critical  of  our  materials  for  literature,  giving  a  list 
of  our  deficiencies  almost  as  long  as  that  of  Henry  James,  and  he  men- 
tions Halleck,  Bryant,  Percival,  Sprague,  Brockden  Brown  as  our  foremost 
writers.  There  is  an  eloquent  analysis  of  Washington's  character  and 
a  dramatic  description  of  the  landing  of  Lafayette  in  1824.  Cooper's 
picture  of  the  Indians  proves  that  he  knew  them  at  first  hand.  The  closing 
passage  of  this  book,  which  is  so  neglected,  rings  like  a  prophecy: 

A  new  era  is  now  about  to  dawn  on  this  nation.  It  has  ceased  to  creep;  it  begins 
to  walk  erect  among  the  powers  of  the  earth.  All  these  things  have  occurred 
within  the  life  of  man.  Europeans  may  be  reluctant  to  admit  the  claims  of  a 
competitor,  that  they  knew  so  lately  a  pillaged,  a  wronged,  and  a  feeble  people; 
but  Nature  will  have  her  laws  obeyed,  and  the  fulfilment  of  things  must  come. 
The  spirit  of  greatness  is  in  this  nation:  its  means  are  within  their  grasp;  and 
it  is  as  vain  as  it  is  weak  to  attempt  to  deny  results  that  every  year  is  rendering 
more  plain,  more  important,  and  more  irresistible. 

Upon  Cooper's  return  in  1833  he  entered  into  a  dispute  with  his  neigh- 
bors in  Cooperstown  concerning  a  right  of  way,  in  which  he  was  entirely 
within  his  legal  rights,  but  which  he  handled  untactfully.  It  embittered 
his  return-,  however,  and  the  attacks  of  the  Whig  newspapers  added  to 
his  sense  of  ingratitude. 

In  1836  he  published  Sketches  of  Switzerland,  By  an  American,  in  two 
parts.  Cooper's  love  of  natural  beauty  showed  clearly  in  these  volumes, 
which  were  used  for  a  time  as  a  guide  book  to  Switzerland.  During  1837 
and  1838  appeared  his  Gleanings  in  Europe,  five  volumes  dealing  with 
France,  England  and  Italy.4  Like  their  predecessors,  they  were  ostensibly 

4  In  England  these  were  called  Excursions  in  Switzerland,  and  A  Residence  in 
France:  With  an  Excursion  up  the  Rhine  and  a  Second  Visit  to  Switzerland,  which 
more  exactly  describes  their  contents. 


234  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

letters  written  by  Cooper  to  friends,  evidently  intended  for  publication, 
and  they  dealt  by  comparisons  freely  inserted,  with  native  as  well  as 
foreign  scenes.  These  letters  emphasize  the  independence  of  Cooper's 
character;  his  good  judgment  of  men  and  affairs,  especially  in  social  mat- 
ters; and  his  strong  belief  that  it  is  only  in  the  Middle  States  that  good 
manners  exist  and  that  good  English  is  spoken.  Cooper's  liberality  is 
shown  especially  in  his  summing  up  of  the  Italian  character  which  he 
prefers  to  the  English,  French  or  German.  Although  these  books,  ac- 
cording to  Cooper,  were  unpopular,  they  are  today  interesting  reading, 
if  it  were  only  for  such  sentences  as  "Alas!  it  is  much  easier  to  declare 
war,  and  gain  victories  in  the  field,  and  establish  a  political  independence, 
than  to  emancipate  the  mind."  5 

In  1839  he  published  a  History  of  the  United  States  Navy,  which 
proved  to  be  too  accurate  in  the  discussion  of  the  Battle  of  Lake  Erie  for 
the  friends  of  Commodore  Perry  and  led  to  a  suit  for  libel  against  the 
Commercial  Advertiser,  at  which  Cooper  himself  spoke,  and  which  he 
won. 

Like  practically  all  the  foremost  writers  of  the  time,  Cooper  wrote  a 
play,  Upside  Down:  or,  Philosophy  in  Petticoats,  which  William  E. 
Burton  produced  at  his  Chambers  Street  Theatre,  in  New  York,  June  1 8, 
1850.  It  was  a  satire  on  socialism  and  a  female  philosopher.  It  apparently 
had  some  good  points,  but  lasted  only  four  nights.6  Yet  several  of  his 
novels  were  dramatized  by  other  hands,  and  contrast  and  conflict,  which 
are  the  life  of  drama,  abound  in  his  books.  These  conflicts  are  not  always 
between  characters;  the  supreme  conflicts,  which  spring  up  in  the  hearts 
of  individuals,  are  found  in  The  Spy,  The  Pilot,  The  Red  Rover,  The 
Two  Admirals,  The  Last  of  the  Mohicans— in  all  his  great  books. 

Cooper's  ability  in  social  satire,  though  not  one  of  his  strongest  points, 
was  revealed  agreeably  in  Autobiography  of  a  Pocket-Handkerchief 
(1843),  in  which  the  handkerchief,  starting  in  France,  and  brought  to 
the  United  States,  gave  him  an  opportunity  to  contrast  social  values  in 
those  civilizations  through  its  various  owners. 

Balzac's  famous  tribute,  so  often  quoted,  has  to  a  certain  degree,  led 
to  a  mistaken  estimate  of  Cooper's  power.  In  speaking  of  The  Pathfinder, 
the  great  French  realist  said:  "Never  did  the  art  of  writing  tread  closer 
upon  the  art  of  the  pencil,— If  Cooper  had  succeeded  in  the  painting  of 
character  to  the  same  extent  that  he  did  in  the  phenomena  of  Nature, 
he  would  have  uttered  the  last  word  of  our  art." 

But  while  we  do  read  Cooper  for  his  narration  of  stirring  events  and 
the  description  of  striking  scenes,  these  do  not  dwarf  his  characters. 
Above  the  roar  of  battles,  on  sea  or  land,  some  heroic  nature  rises  to 

■■  Gleanings  In  Europe  (1932),  Vol.  2,  England,  ed.  R.  E.  Spillcr,  p.  262. 
,;  Sec  appreciative  letter  from  J.  H.  Hackett  to  Cooper,  Correspondence,  ed.  J.  C.j 
Cooper  (1922),  Vol.  2,  pp.  682-684. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        235 

heights  of  triumph  or  self-sacrifice.  When  the  terror  of  the  forest  is 
deepest,  a  figure  arises  to  dispel  it  through  the  very  gifts  and  powers  that 
he  has  learned  from  Nature  herself.  Who  but  Cooper  has  made  one 
central  character  dominate  five  novels,  with  an  elemental  nature  that 
gave  that  character  unity,  but  with  a  variety  of  action  and  impulse  that 
keeps  him  so  interesting  that  many  of  Cooper's  readers  prefer  The  Deer- 
slayer,  the  last  of  the  Leatherstocking  series  to  be  written. 

Cooper  instinctively  chose  the  most  elemental  passions,  self-preserva- 
tion, love,  hate,  revenge,  or  the  most  appealing  sentiments,  patriotism, 
loyalty,  pity,  and  terror,  with  which  to  endow  his  characters.  Intrigue, 
introspection,  were  not  his  forte  and  he  avoided  them.  Great  objective 
artist  as  he  was,  for  no  one  character  is  Fenimore  Cooper,  his  philosophy 
of  leadership  shows  clearly  in  his  fiction.  He  was  not  tainted  by  the 
heresy  of  little  souls. 

His  faults  are  easy  to  see— a  slow  approach  to  the  center  of  interest,  a 
prolixity,  a  conversation  stilted  at  times,  a  tendency  to  make  his  "females," 
as  he  (and  everyone  else)  called  them,  too  purely  receptive.  But  Judith 
and  Hetty  Hutter,  Cora  Munro,  Lucy  Hardinge,  Anneke  Mordaunt, 
Maud  Willoughby,  need  no  apology;  and  his  sailors  like  Tom  Coffin,  or 
Ithuel  Bolt,  are  drawn  from  life. 

He  lived  to  see  his  works  appearing  simultaneously  in  thirty-four  places 
in  Europe,  and  to  be  recognized  as  a  world  artist.  When  his  long  struggle 
against  Whiggery,  mediocrity,  and  oligarchy  at  home,  and  foreign 
jealousy  of  America  came  to  an  end,  September  14,  185 1,  he  had  won 
his  fight,  at  least  in  his  own  country.  The  memorial  meeting  in  February, 
1852,  was  presided  over  by  the  last  and  greatest  Whig  statesman  of  the 
time  and  every  American  man  of  letters  of  any  significance  paid  tribute 
to  his  greatness. 


Two  pioneers  in  the  fiction  of  the  frontier  illustrate  the  difference  be- 
tween those  who  see  and  those  who  do  not.  Timothy  Flint  (1780- 1840), 
a  New  England  clergyman,  traveled  through  the  west  and  southwest 
as  far  as  Arkansas  and  Missouri.  His  novel,  Francis  Berrian:  or,  The  Mexi- 
can Patriot  (1826),  is  readable,  and  so  far  as  Flint  had  gone,  is  fairly  ac- 
curate but  compared  with  the  work  of  James  Hall,  his  understanding  of 
any  race  or  civilization  other  than  his  own  is  almost  a  blank.  The  Spanish 
characters  are  conventional  figures,  and  his  dependence  upon  Chateau- 
briand is  evident. 

Much  better  are  the  fiction  and  descriptive  sketches  of  James  Hall 
( 1 793-1868),  a  Philadelphian,  who  had  an  active  career  as  soldier,  lawyer, 
editor,  and  pioneer.  About  1820  he  went  to  Illinois,  where  he  established 
The  Illinois  Monthly  Magazine  in  1830,  the  first  literary  magazine  west 
of  Ohio.  In  1832  he  published  his  Legends  of  the  West,  stories  of  the 


236  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

characters  he  met  on  his  journeys  through  the  Mississippi  River  country. 
The  backwoodsman,  the  settlers,  the  faith  doctor,  the  Indian,  are  drawn 
with  skill  and,  even  more  important,  with  sympathy.  His  understanding 
of  the  French  and  Spanish  of  Louisiana,  his  delightful  humor,  his  power  of 
description,  especially  of  the  prairie,  and  his  sense  of  form  in  his  fiction 
are  unusual.  Hall's  second  volume  The  Soldier's  Bride  (1833)  is  not  up 
to  his  first  or  his  third  volume,  Tales  of  the  Border  (1835).  "The  Pioneer," 
a  story  of  revenge  upon  the  Indians  for  the  killing' or  abducting  of  a 
man's  family,  differs  from  later  treatments  of  the  theme  since  the  teller, 
meeting  his  sister  years  later  as  the  contented  wife  of  an  Indian,  sees 
matters  in  a  different  light.  Hall  had  founded  an  annual,  The  Western 
Souvenir,  and  here  in  1829  he  drew  a  contrast  in  "The  French  Village," 
between  the  contented  life  of  the  people  under  French  rule  and  their  ex- 
periences under  American  "progress."  Hall  collected  the  best  of  these 
stories  in  The  Wilderness  and  the  War  Path  (1846)  and  added  two  fine 
Indian  tales  in  "The  Black  Steed"  and  "The  Red  Sky  of  the  Morning." 
His  Indians  are  neither  the  idealized  "noble  redmen"  nor  bloodthirsty 
savages,  but  are  probably  nearer  the  real  Indian.  Hall's  one  novel,  Harpers 
Head  (1833)  was  laid  in  the  late  eighteenth  century  in  Virginia  and 
Kentucky.  The  ruffian  "Harpe"  is  a  sinister  figure  of  some  power.  Hall 
depicts  the  unattractive  aspect  of  the  frontier  as  well  as  its  romance,  but 
his  liberal  outlook  kept  him  from  the  exaggerations  of  Simms  or  the 
sentimentality  of  Flint.  He  left  the  first  authentic  short  stories  of  the 
West  that  are  based  on  actual  knowledge,  and  his  sketches  of  History, 
Life,  and  Manners  in  the  West  (1835)  or  its  revision  in  1857,  have  been 
the  sources  of  much  later  description  of  the  region. 

Mrs.  Caroline  Kirkland  (1801-64),  who  wrote  her  A  New  Home— 
Who'll  Follow?  in  1839  under  the  pen  name  of  Mrs.  Mary  Clavers,  gave 
such  a  realistic  picture  of  life  in  Michigan  that  it  is  on  the  borderline  of 
fiction.  Her  picture  of  the  "small  town  mind"  in  a  western  town  long  ante- 
dates that  of  Sinclair  Lewis. 

Another  volume  of  outstanding  realistic  fiction  was  the  Georgia  Scenes 
(1835)  of  Augustus  Baldwin  Longstreet  (1790-1870).  They  are  partly 
tales,  partly  sketches,  of  life  from  1809  to  1835.  The  frontier  is  that  of 
vigorous,  rough,  and  cruel  life,  as  in  "The  Fight,"  or  described  with  an 
ironic  humor,  in  "The  Horse  Swap."  The  "Militia  Company  Drill" 
describing  the  disorder  and  lack  of  discipline  of  Captain  Clodpole's  band 
is  well  known.  According  to  the  preface  it  was  contributed  by  a  friend, 
but  the  tone  is  the  same,7  and  the  similarity  of  Thomas  Hardy's  well 
known  scene  in  The  Trumpet  Major  has  been  pointed  out. 

7  It  was  first  printed  in  The  Monitor,  a  Georgia  newspaper  in  1813,  according  to  the 
Louisville  Public  Advertiser,  when  reprinting  it  from  the  Augusta  Chronicle,  in  June, 
1823.  It  was  reprinted  in  England  and  translated  into  French.  See  Walter  Blair, 
Native  American  Humor,  p.  26. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        237 

The  influence  of  Irving  and  Cooper  dominated  the  novelists  who 
wrote  during  the  third,  fourth  or  even  the  fifth  decades  of  the  century. 
The  history  of  America  naturally  kindled  their  imagination  and  they 
depicted  the  colonial  struggles  against  the  Indian  and  later  against  Great 
Britain,  and  did  not  neglect  the  romantic  material  with  which  the 
Indians'  hopeless  defiance  of  fate  provided  them.  The  establishment  of 
the  Republic  was  celebrated  in  the  number  of  novels  which  appeared  in 
1835,  prompted  by  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace  in 
1783.  The  frontier  continued  to  be  the  source  of  fiction,  and  the  back- 
ground of  social  and  international  relations  attracted  some  of  the  i>roup. 
The  moral  and  ethical  novel  never  faltered  in  its  appeal  and  reinforced 
by  the  early  fiction  of  Hawthorne,  persisted  and  caught  the  wave  of 
Evangelical  reform  in  the  forties  and  fifties. 

These  fashions  and  currents  led  novelists  like  Catharine  iMaria  Sedgwick 
(1789-1867)  whose  first  stories,  A  New  England  Tale  (1822),  and 
Redwood  (1824)  were  primarily  moral  tales,  into  the  field  of  the  historical 
romance.  Hope  Leslie  (1827),  was  a  story  of  Indian  and  colonial  life  in 
the  early  seventeenth  century,  largely  in  Connecticut.  The  best-drawn 
characters  are  the  sister  of  the  heroine,  Faith,  who  had  been  captured  by 
the  Pequods,  married  one  of  the  tribe  and  refused  to  leave  him,  and  Sir 
Philip  Gardiner,  a  favorite  character  in  fiction  who  represents  the  opposi- 
tion to  the  Puritans.  The  Linwoods  (1835)  is  a  tale  of  the  Revolution, 
interesting  for  its  picture  of  social  life  and  family  divisions  in  New  York 
City  during  the  closing  days  of  the  conflict.  Miss  Sedgwick  continued  to 
write  until  1857  when  her  Married  or  Single  was  inspired  by  a  desire  to 
show  that  a  woman  could  have  a  career  unmarried,  but  her  girls  are 
married  nevertheless.  Miss  Sedgwick,  though  a  New  England  woman, 
spent  a  good  deal  of  her  life  in  New  York  City  but  she  was  a  force  in 
that  literary  circle  which  centered  in  Lenox  and  Stockbridge,  Massa- 
chusetts, where  she  was  born. 

Another  New  England  woman,  Lydia  Maria  Child  (1802-80)  treated 
in  her  novel,  Hobomok,  (1824)  the  union  of  the  Indian  and  the 
white  woman  as  possible.  It  was  probably  a  reflex  from  her  abolition 
principles.  Curiously  enough  her  novel  of  the  Revolution,  The  Rebels 
(1825),  is  much  less  readable  than  her  romance  of  Greek  life,  Philothea 
(1836).  She  knew  something  about  Greek  life,  and  her  imagination 
gave  her  more  scope  than  it  did  in  her  propaganda  story  of  abolition, 
A  Romance  of  the  Republic  (1867). 


While  nearly  all  of  this  group  followed  Cooper  in  the  idealistic  treat- 
ment of  their  romantic  material,  Robert  Montgomery  Bird,  (1806-1854) 
depicted  his  characters  frequently  by  a  realistic  method  which  makes 
him  a  pioneer.  His  dramas  are  of  even  more  significance  than  his  fiction 


238  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  his  career  will  be  given  later  in  connection  with  them.  Here  it  is 
sufficient  to  speak  of  his  connection  with  Philadelphia  where  his  writing 
was  done.  The  discouraging  conditions  of  the  theatre  turned  his  attention 
to  fiction,  but  he  was  only  following  a  plan  earlier  made,  to  write  novels 
after  his  plays  had  succeeded,  and  to  follow  with  history.  His  first  fiction 
was  prompted  bv  a  strong  interest  in  Mexico,  which  he  was  unable  to 
visit.  Calavar:  or,  The  Knight  of  the  Conquest   (1834)   and  its  sequel, 
The  Infidel:  or,  The  Fall  of  Mexico  (1835),  appeared  nine  years  before 
Prescott's  Conquest  of  Mexico  was  published.  Bird  provided  his  novels 
with  a  young  romantic  hero,  of  course,  but  the  center  of  interest  is  the 
figure  of  Cortez,  which  he  drew  with  an  understanding  of  the  mingled 
motives,  the  cruelty  and  the  courage,  which  make  him  so  challenging 
a  figure.  For  his  novel  The  Hawks  of  Hawk-Holloiv:  A  Tradition  of 
Pennsylvania   (1835)   Bird  had  his  inspiration  from  the  lovely  scenery 
of  the  Delaware  Water  Gap,  where  the  story  is  laid.  The  picture  of  a 
once  powerful  but  decaying  family,  outlawed  by  their  Tory  sympathies 
in  the  Revolution,  is  well  established  and  the  suspense  is  carried  through 
a  complicated  yet  interesting  plot.  In  the  introduction  Bird   describes 
the  novel  as  a  domestic  tale,  of  universal  rather  than  peculiarly  American 
character,    and   objects   to   the   public   taste   which    requires    American 
authors    to    confine    themselves    to    subjects    indigenous    to    their    own 
hemisphere.  Yet  his  novels,  as  well  as  his  correspondence  show  his  con- 
stant interest  in  native  material.  In  Sheppard  Lee,  Written  by  Himself 
(1836)  and  published  anonymously,  he  succeeded  admirably  in  criticizing 
the  follies  or  the  crimes  of  the  day,  through  an  original  device.  Lee  is  a 
farmer  in  New  Jersey  whose   spirit,   through   supernatural   agency,   is 
given  the  power  to  enter  into  any  dead  body  he  finds  and  become  that 
person.  In  this  manner  he  becomes  a  merchant,  a  young  Philadelphia 
buck,  a  rich  miser,  a  Quaker  philanthropist,  a  Negro  slave,  and  a  Virginia 
planter.  In  every  case  he  transfers  his  identity  to  avoid  trouble  and  finds 
himself  in  worse  condition  in  consequence.  He  comes  out  of  his  trance 
back  on  his  own  farm,  and  one  may  believe  it  all  a  dream.  But  Bird's 
satire  of  so-called  fashionable  life  is  delightful. 

Bird's  most  popular  novel,  still  being  republished,  Nick  of  the  Woods 
(1837),  was  based  on  a  story  told  him  by  a  friend,  but  his  visits  to 
Kentucky  provided  him  with  first-hand  knowledge  of  the  scene.  The 
central  character,  Nathan  Slaughter,  whose  family  have  been  killed  by 
the  Indians,  conceives  a  singular  method  of  revenge.  To  all  appearance, 
he  is  a  peaceful  Quaker,  who  is  horrified  at  the  sight  of  blood.  As  the 
mysterious  destroyer  of  his  foes,  he  is  known  as  the  "Jibbenainosay"  who 
leaves  a  mark  upon  each  of  his  victims.  The  Indians  are  not  idealized; 
they  are  drawn  as  cruel,  bloodthirsty  and  treacherous.  Bird  was  realistic 
also  in  his  description  of  the  frontier.  In  Peter  Pilgrim:  or,  A  Rambler's]^ 
Recollections   (1838),  he  gave  a  picturesque  account  of  the  Mammoth 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        239 

Cave,  and  a  realistic  description  of  the  Mississippi  River  steamboats  which 
proves  that  some  of  A4ark  Twain's  romantic  incidents  were  already  out 
of  date  in  1838.  Bird's  later  novels,  The  Adventures  of  Robin  Day  (1839) 
or  his  posthumous  Ipsico  Poe,  are  hardly  up  to  his  earlier  standards. 


The  earliest  of  the  Southern  writers  of  the  novel  approached  it  through 
the  impulse  to  describe  scenes  around  him.  John  Pendleton  Kennedv 
(1795-1870),  a  lawyer  of  Baltimore,  began  with  a  leisurely  picture  of 
life  in  Virginia  in  Swallow  Bam  (1832).  It  is  charming  in  its  portrayal 
of  characters  on  a  plantation,  with  neighborly  feuds  that  enrich  life  with 
interest.  But  in  Horseshoe  Robinson:  A  Tale  of  the  Tory  Ascendancy 
(1835)  Kennedy  combined  the  well-tested  picaresque  device  of  a  gallant 
hero  and  his  devoted  companion,  with  an  accurate  picture  of  the  Revolu- 
tion in  Virginia  and  the  Carolinas  in  1780.  Major  Butler  has  more  verity 
than  the  usual  romantic  hero  and  Sergeant  Robinson  possesses  the  great 
strength  and  common  sense  which  make  him  the  leading  figure  in  the 
story.  Kennedy  knew  well  how  doubtful  was  the  issue  in  the  South  in 
1780,  and  he  makes  the  Battle  of  King's  Mountain,  in  which  the 
mountaineers  defeated  the  British  despite  the  indifference  of  the  wealthier 
classes,  the  climax  of  the  novel.  Between  The  Spy  and  Hugh  Wynne, 
Horseshoe  Robinson  occupies  first  place  in  the  romances  of  the  Revolu- 
tion, and  together  with  Kennedy's  next  story  it  has  been  reprinted  as 
late  as  1928.  Rob  of  the  Bowl  (1838),  the  first  novel  to  deal  with  colonial 
Maryland,  was  prompted  by  Kennedy's  desire  to  celebrate  the  struggle 
of  the  Catholic  founders  of  his  state  to  establish  religious  freedom.  The 
characters  are  often  types,  from  Lord  Baltimore  to  the  mysterious  cripple 
who  gave  the  title  to  the  book,  but  it  is  an  example  of  that  liberality 
which  makes  Kennedy  such  an  attractive  figure. 

Notwithstanding  the  lack  of  publishing  centres  and  the  traditions  of 
a  section  in  which  legal  and  political  distinction  far  outweighed  literary 
achievement,  the  South  contributed  a  novelist,  who  next  to  Irving  and 
Cooper,  was  the  most  prolific  writer  of  romance  in  this  period.  William 
Gilmore  Simms  was  born  in  Charleston,  South  Carolina,  April  17,  1806, 
and  had  to  struggle  against  poverty,  scanty  education  and  polite  inatten- 
tion to  a  writer  who  was  not  a  member  of  the  closely  guarded  social  or 
intellectual  life  of  that  city.  He  was  admitted  to  the  bar,  but  soon  turned 
to  the  writing  of  verse,  fiction  and  history.  His  fiction  is  best  studied  by  a 
consideration  of  its  different  species.  He  began  with  a  powerful  if  uneven 
romance  of  crime  and  self-analysis,  Martin  Faber  (1833).  The  central 
incident,  the  murder  of  a  woman  loved  by  the  hero,  also  formed  the 
main  motive  of  Confession:  or,  The  Blind  Heart  (1841)  and  Simms 
combined  the  study  of  crime  and  the  supernatural  successfully  in  Castle 
Dismal  (1844)  ana"  m  such  shorter  narratives  as  "Grayling;  or,  Murder 


24o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Will  Out,"  in  The  Wigwam  and  the  Cabin  (1845).  Simms  also  introduced 
into  the  best  of  his  historical  novels  the  method  of  self-analysis  and  some 
of  his  most  striking  characters,  like  Blonay  in  Mellichampe,  are  abnormal 
or  criminal. 

Of  his  historical  novels,  seven  deal  with  the  Revolution.  The  best  are 
The  Partisan  (1835),  Katharine  Walton  (1851),  and  The  Sword  and  the 
Distaff  (1853),  revised  in  1856  as  Woodcraft.  The  Partisan  depicts  the 
struggle  in  1780  when  Greene  was  trying  to  stem  the  tide  of  failure,  and 
Marion  and  Sumter  were  carrying  on  their  guerilla  campaigns  from  the 
swamps.  The  heroes,  young  and  old,  are  drawn  from  the  minority  of 
patrician  landholders  who  were  on  the  patriotic  side.  Simms  attempted 
to  lighten  the  story  by  humor  through  Lieutenant  Porgy,  but  the 
present  critic  agrees  with  Poe  that  "Porgy  is  a  most  insufferable  bore." 
Katharine  Walton  is  laid  in  Charleston  where  the  rivalry  of  Whig  and 
Tory  is  used  to  provide  suspense  through  the  danger  of  Katharine  and 
her  lover  Major  Singleton,  the  hero  of  The  Partisan.  The  central  char- 
acters are  spirited  people,  even  the  British.  Woodcraft  portrays  an 
unusual  picture  of  Charleston  at  the  close  of  the  Revolution,  realistic  in 
its  description  of  the  thin  line  that  separated  plenty  from  ruin,  and  the 
absurd  decision  by  which  Greene  forbade  Marion  and  his  partisans  to 
parade  with  the  regular  troops,  because  of  their  shabbiness  and  unruly 
nature. 

Simms1  finest  novel,  The  Yemassee  (1835)  dealt  with  the  struggle  of 
the  colonists  and  the  Yemassee  tribe  of  Indians.  Sanutee,  the  chieftain, 
is  a  magnificent  figure  of  fate,  dying  in  battle  in  defence  of  his  lands. 
Even  more  notable  is  his  wife  Matiwan,  the  heroine  of  a  scene  almost 
unsurpassed  in  American  fiction.  Their  son,  Occonestoga,  has  betrayed 
his  father  to  the  English  and  has  been  condemned,  not  to  death  but  to 
the  more  terrible  degradation  of  having  the  totem  of  the  chieftain, 
the  arrow  of  the  Yemassee,  cut  from  his  shoulder,  and  then  being  exiled 
forever  in  this  world  and  the  next.  Matiwan  asks  permission  to  say 
farewell  to  him,  as  he  lies  bound  on  the  summit  of  a  hill,  and  then,  creep- 
ing swiftly  up,  she  plunges  her  knife  into  his  heart,  believing  that  if  she 
saves  him  from  degradation,  she  will  see  him  in  the  happy  hunting- 
grounds  of  eternity.  Simms  introduced  Indian  characters  into  his  collec- 
tion of  short  stories  The  Wigwam  and  the  Cabin  with  success,  but  none 
rises  to  the  level  of  those  in  The  Yemassee.  Neither  does  The  Cassiqne  of 
Kiawah  (1859)  with  Charleston  of  1684  as  its  centre.  The  historical 
novels  dealing  with  Spanish  history,  or  with  Mexico  are  so  far  below 
Irving  or  Bird  that  they  need  not  detain  us. 

Simms  planned  his  "Border  Romances,"  Guy  Rivers,  (1834)  laid  in 
Georgia,  Richard  Hindis,  (1838)  in  Alabama,  and  Border  Beagles  (1840) 
in  Mississippi,  as  a  prose  epic  of  the  southwest  frontier.  They  are  among 
his   poorest  efforts,   even   though   he   knew  the   localities,   and  obtained 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        241 

other  first-hand  information.  The  pattern  is  that  of  a  hero,  usually  from 
another  section,  who  combats  a  band  of  robbers,  drawn  from  the  "Murrell 
gang,"  of  whom  he  heard  from  Virgil  Stewart  who  had  captured  Mur- 
rell. The  stories  are  melodrama,  and  so  to  a  degree  was  life  in  the  South- 
west. But  the  reader  grows  tired  of  vast  confederacies  of  murderous 
persons  which  dissolve  at  a  single  cavalry  charge,  as  in  Richard  Hurdis. 
Simms  could  invent  a  situation  but  could  not  always  resolve  it. 

Simms  combined  the  interest  of  the  frontier  and  crime  in  Beauchampe: 
or,  The  Kentucky  Tragedy  (1842)  based  on  a  sordid  but  widely  dis- 
cussed incident  in  Frankfort,  Kentucky,  in  1825.  Solomon  P.  Sharp  had 
seduced  Anne  Cooke,  some  years  before  her  marriage  to  Jeroboam 
Beauchamp,  and  she  demanded  that  her  husband  kill  her  betrayer.  He 
challenged  Sharp  who  refused  to  fight  him  and  Beauchamp  stabbed  him. 
The  pair  were  convicted  of  murder,  and  attempted  suicide  in  prison, 
but  Beauchamp  was  executed.  The  events  were  dramatized  by  Poe, 
Charlotte  Barnes  and  others,  who  laid  the  scene  elsewhere,  but  Simms 
used  the  locality  and  some  of  the  real  names  and  followed  events  closely. 
The  novel  is  one  of  his  poorest  but  it  must  be  mentioned  if  only  to 
relieve  him  of  at  least  one  charge,  that  he  returned  after  fourteen  years 
to  take  up  the  theme  again  in  Charlemont.8 

Simms  returned  in  1867  to  the  romance  of  history  in  Joscelyn:  A  Tale 
of  the  Revolution  in  Georgia,  and  there  were  other  minor  stories  in 
periodicals  like  The  Old  Guard,  which  he  did  not  reprint.  His  best  work 
was  done  when  he  combined  the  delineation  of  the  passions  of  hate  or 
revenge  or  the  devotion  to  a  person  or  a  cause  with  the  colorful  back- 
ground of  an  historic  past.  For  Simms  had  a  feeling  for  history  as  was 
shown  by  his  biographies  of  Captain  John  Smith  (1846),  in  which  he 
worked  with  some  of  the  original  sources,  and  of  Nathaniel  Greene 
(1849),  which  is  almost  a  history  of  the  Revolution  in  the  South. 

Simms  had  been  a  Union  sympathizer  up  to  about  1850  but,  as  the 
agitation  concerning  slavery  increased,  he  took  the  side  of  the  South  and 
suffered  with  it.  His  home  was  burned  and  his  library  destroyed.  His 
last  years  were  not  happy  ones,  struggling  as  he  was  against  poverty  and 
disaster.  They  were  cheered  by  the  love  and  respect  of  a  number  of  the 
younger  writers  of  the  South  like  Paul  Hayne  and  Henry  Timrod. 
Simms  died  June  1 1,  1870.  His  courage  and  fine  character  are  apparent  to 
anyone  who  reads  his  correspondence.  His  long  and  friendly  letter  to 
Poe  in  July  1 846,  giving  him  some  very  good  advice  concerning  the  tone 

8  In  1856  Simms  revised  his  novels,  renamed  the  first  volume  of  Beauchampe  as 
Charlemont,  which  dealt  with  the  seduction,  and  called  the  second  volume  Beau- 
champe: A  Sequel  to  Charlemont,  which  was  correct.  Yet  even  W.  P.  Trent  in  the 
best  biography  of  Simms,  speaks  of  Charlemont  as  a  new  novel,  a  sequel  to  Beauchampe 
and  criticizes  Simms  for  returning  after  fourteen  years  to  give  "a  detailed  and  often 
salacious  account"  of  the  seduction.  The  error  arose  from  the  scarcity  of  the  1842 
edition  of  Beauchampe,  which  evidently  escaped  the  attention  of  Simms'  critics. 


242  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  his  criticism,  is  only  one  instance  of  his  constant  effort  to  cherish  the 
writers  who  were  struggling  to  maintain  the  position  of  the  South  in 
letters. 

Another  Southerner,  William  Alexander  Caruthers  (1800-46)  a  native 
of  Virginia  and  a  physician,  showed  in  his  Cavaliers  of  Virginia:  or,  The 
Recluse  of  Jamestown  (1834-35),  tnat  tne  conflict  in  the  capital  after 
the  restoration  of  Charles  II  was  threefold  between  the  Cavalier  Tories, 
led  by  Governor  Berkeley,  the  Cavalier  Liberals,  led  by  Nathaniel  Bacon 
and  the  Puritan  or  Roundhead  element.  Bacon  is  the  hero,  and  the  recluse 
General  Whalley,  one  of  the  regicides  of  Charles  I,  enters  to  help  the 
whites  against  the  Indians.  Caruthers'  The  Kentuckian  in  New  York 
(1834)  is  an  interesting  example  of  the  reversal  of  the  usual  process  for 
it  is  inspired  by  Paulding's  play,  The  Lion  of  the  West.  The  Knights  of 
the  Horseshoe  (1845)  probably  written  earlier,  deals  with  the  career  of 
Governor  Spotswood  of  Virginia  about  17 14.  Caruthers'  narratives  are 
very  readable  although  his  conversations,  like  Simms',  are  the  weakest 
elements  in  his  stories.  But  he  knew  history,  and  his  views  on  slavery  and 
on  dueling,  both  of  which  he  disliked,  are  well  expressed.  His  sense  of 
social  distinctions  is  keen,  for  he  shows  how  the  aristocracy  in  the  North, 
on  account  of  its  many  gradations,  was  less  secure,  and  its  members  felt 
they  had  to  insist  upon  their  pre-eminence  while  the  Southern  planter, 
aware  of  the  wider  gulf  between  him  and  the  poorer  white,  felt  no 
necessity  to  insist  upon  his  position. 

History  was  used  as  a  medium  of  propaganda  by  William  Ware  ( 1 797- 
1852),  a  Unitarian  clergyman.  His  Letters  of  Lucius  M.  Piso  from 
Palmyra  to  his  Friend  Marcus  Curtius  at  Rome  (1837)  is  the  best  of  his 
three  novels  because  his  picture  of  the  conflict  of  Rome  with  the  East 
is  well  drawn.  In  Pr obits  (1838)  and  Julian  (1841)  the  arguments  which 
tend  to  limit  the  divine  nature  of  Christ  become  tiresome,  and  the  propa- 
ganda spoils  the  history.  Ware's  books  were  popular,  however,  and  even 
more  widely  read  were  those  of  Joseph  Holt  Ingraham  (1809-66), 
whose  Prince  of  the  House  of  David  (1855)  tells  through  the  letters  of  a 
Jewish  girl  visiting  in  Jerusalem,  the  events  leading  up  to  the  Crucifixion 
and  Resurrection.  Ingraham,  who  was  an  Episcopal  clergyman,  wrote 
the  book,  he  tells  us,  to  convert  liberal  Jews  to  Christianity,  but  he  differs 
from  Ware  in  keeping  the  propaganda  in  his  introductions,  where  he  also 
repudiates  many  of  the  novels  attributed  to  him  on  account  of  his  wide 
popularity,  a  practice  probably  due  also  to  the  habit  of  publishing  fiction 
as  "by  the  author  of"  some  popular  book.  There  is  some  significance  in 
the  fact  that  The  Prince  of  the  House  of  David  and  Ingraham's  Pillar 
of  Fire  (1859)  dealing  with  the  career  of  Moses,  and  The  Throne  of 
David  (i860)  have  been  reprinted  within  recent  years  while  his  romance 
of  Aaron  Burr,  Burton:  or,  The  Sieges  is  forgotten.  The  popularity  of 
certain  romances  of  today  upon  Biblical  themes  is  also  a  tribute  to  their 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        243 

dramatic  value.  Their  moral  flavor  was  shared  by  another  type  of 
romance,  which  combined  with  it  a  love  of  adventure  and  a  search  for 
a  quite  different  frontier,  epitomized  in  a  scmiprofound  statement  by  the 
author  of  Resignation:  an  American  Novel  (1825)  that  "the  world  is  a 
dangerous  place  for  virtue."  The  Wide  Wide  World  (1850)  of  Susan 
Warner  and  Beulah  (1859)  of  Augusta  Evans  Wilson,  appealed  to  thou- 
sands of  girls  whose  prosaic  lives  made  them  long  for  similar  experiences, 
leading  to  the  dangerous  and  fascinating  hero  whom  the  heroine  ultimately 
tames.  As  the  cities  grew  larger,  the  novels  revealing  the  temptations  of 
urban  life  grew  in  number  but  rarely  rose  to  the  level  of  literature.  They 
reveal  however  the  enduring  appeal  of  fiction. 

In  general,  while  the  material  chosen  by  the  writers  of  romance  varied 
in  locality  and  their  idealistic  methods  more  often  resulted  in  the  creation 
of  types  than  in  the  realistic  portrayal  of  character,  yet  the  social  historian 
will  find  the  analysis  of  this  fiction  rewarding.  The  transition  from  a 
pioneer  life  to  a  rural  civilization  which  laid  the  foundation  for  the  later 
rise  of  the  cities,  is  reflected  in  fiction  in  several  ways.  There  is  the 
nostalgia  of  the  pioneer  for  the  simpler  society  of  the  village,  or  the 
individual  independence  of  rural  life,  yet  for  the  closer  community  of 
the  people.  The  hospitality  to  strangers  in  the  western  settlements,  or 
in  the  plantations  of  the  South  was  due  partly  to  good  feeling  and  partly 
to  a  desire  for  news.  The  latter  leads  naturally  to  the  creation  of  types 
which  provide  means  of  bringing  in  the  outside  world,  like  tavern  keepers, 
itinerant  peddlers,  or  professional  men,  doctors,  lawyers,  or  clergymen. 
These  are  often  from  the  cities  and  frequently  represent  fugitives  from 
failure,  or  crusaders  of  evangelical  religion.  They  provide  contrasts,  so 
useful  in  fiction  and,  in  the  hands  of  the  early  realists  like  Mrs.  Kirkland, 
they  are  used  for  satire.  Even  Simms  in  Guy  Rivers  mingles  his  glowing 
picture  of  rural  life  with  a  sharp  criticism  of  "city  poets  who  lie  snug 
in  garrets"  and  write  of  rural  felicity.  Irving  records  in  the  journals  of 
his  western  trip  in  the  thirties  the  desire  of  the  pioneer  in  Tennessee  to 
return  to  his  more  ordered  life  in  Philadelphia,  and  of  the  French  settler 
in  Missouri  to  see  New  Orleans  once  more.  The  novels  and  short  stories 
of  the  frontier  were  written  by  eastern  men  and  women,  who  were 
usually  observers  rather  than  partakers  of  the  life  they  described.  The 
fiction  of  Hall  and  Mrs.  Kirkland  is  therefore  closest  to  real  life.  But  the 
novel  of  the  land  west  of  the  Alleghenies  which  sprang  from  native 
inspiration  was  still  to  come. 


Although  Herman  Melville's  fiction  was  the  result  of  the  pioneering 
impulse  of  the  thirties  and  forties,  it  does  not  reflect  the  development  of 
American  life.  His  frontier  was  exotic  and  his  work  was  generally  un- 
affected by  the  main  currents  of  his  time.  He  was  born  August  1,  18 19, 


244  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  New  York  and  died  September  18,  1 891,  which  made  his  life  span 
correspond  closelv  to  those  of  Lowell  and  Whitman.  But  Melville's  best 
work  belongs  by  chronology  and  by  method  to  the  romance  which  had 
its  climax  before  the  Civil  War. 

He  shipped  before  the  mast  in  1839,  on  a  voyage  to  England,  and  his 
novel,  Redburn,  gives  a  fairly  faithful  account  of  his  start.  Indeed,  not- 
withstanding many  of  his  admirers  who  have  sought  to  discover  even 
more  personal  symbolism  in  his  writing  than  exists,  Melville  is  interesting 
simply  because  of  his  books,  and  a  knowledge  of  his  frustrated  life  does 
not  add  much  to  his  essential  biography.  He  had  little  intercourse  with 
his  fellow  craftsmen.  The  Hawthorne  friendship  wTas  largely  a  matter 
of  neighborhood;  there  was  little  kinship  of  spirit  between  them. 

He  had  the  courage  to  break  away  from  his  environment  to  achieve 
one  great  adventure.  He  enjoyed  it,  wrote  about  it  and,  for  a  time,  was 
even  famous  because  of  it.  But  he  found  that  he  could  not  retell  this 
adventure  indefinitely  and,  except  for  one  great  book,  the  public  seemed 
to  have  no  special  need  of  his  writing.  He  could  not,  like  Hawthorne, 
continue  to  create  masterpieces  from  his  own  brooding,  nor  could  he, 
like  a  later  romancer,  who  also  had  his  great  experience,  work  over  his 
material  into  a  variety  of  forms,  for  he  lacked  the  artistry  of  Bret  Harte. 

Prompted,  probably,  by  the  adventures  of  his  cousin,  who  had  been 
in  the  Typee  Valley,  Melville  departed  in  January,  1841,  on  a  whaling 
voyage  in  the  Pacific.  He  spent  about  four  weeks  in  the  Marquesas 
Islands,  during  the  summer  of  1842,  and  later  depended  partially  upon 
printed  sources  for  his  information.9  Typee:  A  Peep  at  Polynesian  Life 
was  the  first  result  of  his  voyage.  It  is  an  entertaining  narrative  of  his 
discovery  of  and  brief  sojourn  in  the  Typee  Valley,  in  Nukuheva,  until 
a  fear  of  being  eaten  led  to  his  escape.  The  natives  are  not  the  "noble 
savages"  of  romantic  literature;  they  are  cruel  and  bloodthirsty,  but  also 
hospitable.  The  characters  are  often  well  drawn,  especially  Fayaway, 
who  becomes  his  consort,  Kary-Kary,  his  special  attendant,  and  Marbeyo, 
Kary-Kary's  father.  There  is  some  very  good  writing.  Melville's  descrip-  I 
tion  of  the  valley  when  it  first  bursts  upon  his  sight  is  a  model  of  pictorial 
style,  which  did  not  by  any  means  maintain  its  distinction. 

The  next  book,  Omoo]  (1847),  derives  its  main  interest  from  the 
description  of  the  island  of  Tahiti,  on  which  he  was  for  a  time  imprisoned, 
in  consequence  of  a  mutiny.  The  interest  which  carried  Typee  and  Omoo 
was  partly  novelty.  Others  had  written  of  the  South  Seas  but  had  not 
created  characters.  It  was  also  partially  ethnological;  the  books  were 
believed  to  be  records  of  fact,  and  even  today  their  importance  depends  1 
upon  their  accuracy.  Melville  brought  upon  himself  a  storm  of  attack 
from  the  Evangelical  missionaries  for  his  criticism  of  their  efforts  which 

!)  See  Charles  R.  Anderson,  Melville  in  the  South  Seas  (1939),  for  a  well-documented 
estimate. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        245 

he  believed  to  be  sincere  but  misguided.10  Typee  and  Omoo  have  the  merit 
of  avoiding  sentimentality,  and  Melville,  unlike  some  recent  writers, 
does  not  bore  the  reader  by  insisting  upon  his  virtue  under  temptation. 
Mardi  (1849),  has  been  interpreted  as  a  satire  upon  contemporary  insti- 
tutions, also  as  a  symbolic  expression  of  Melville's  thinking.  But  the 
search  for  Yillah,  a  Cytherea  of  the  South  Seas,  is  so  confused  that  it  fell 
flat  and  has  remained  generally  unread. 

Red  burn  (1849),  contains  Adelville's  experiences  in  1839  upon  the 
Saint  Lawrence,  a  merchant  ship,  which  becomes  the  Highlander  in  the 
novel.  The  visit  to  England  and  his  return  is  dull  reading  and  misery 
is  piled  upon  misery . . .  until  the  reader  ceases  to  be  interested.  This 
picture  of  the  merchant  service  was  followed  by  White  Jacket  (1850), 
which  is  supposed  to  be  an  accurate  account  of  Melville's  experiences 
as  a  common  sailor  on  a  man-of-war,  the  United  States,  from  'August 
1843  to  October  1844.  Melville  probably  dressed  up  the  events,  for  a 
recently  discovered  journal  of  another  sailor  on  this  ship  indicates  that 
his  account  is  less  accurate  than  was  formerly  supposed.  In  neither  book 
is  the  sea  an  important  element.  It  is  life  on  shipboard,  with  its  cruelty 
and  brutality,  that  is  emphasized. 

In  1 85 1  Melville  published  his  one  great  book,  Moby  Dick:  or,  The 
Whale.  He  probably  was  inspired  by  an  article  by  J.  N.  Reynolds,  the 
friend  of  Poe,  concerning  "A4oocha-Dick  or  the  White  Whale  of  the 
Pacific."  ai  Reynolds  heard  the  account  of  the  mate  of  a  vessel  which 
had  encountered  a  whale  "white  as  wool"  off  the  coast  of  Chile.  The 
mate  had  slain  the  whale  after  the  latter  had  sunk  several  ships.  Melville 
conceived  of  the  character  of  Captain  Ahab,  who,  because  his  leg  had 
been  bitten  off  by  Moby  Dick,  the  White  Whale,  determines  upon 
revenge.  They  become  symbols  of  the  struggle  for  existence  between 
man  and  the  greatest  of  the  animals,  a  theme  that  goes  back  to  the  primitive 
passion  of  the  race.  Ahab  starts  in  a  whaler  from  Nantucket  Island,  which 
according  to  the  local  antiquaries,  Melville  never  visited.  But  it  makes 
little  difference  for  he  knew  New  Bedford,  across  the  bay,  and  he  could 
have  learned  all  he  needed  to  know  about  Nantucket  from  natives  of  that 
picturesque  island.  Indeed  the  early  part  of  the  book  is  tiresome  and  con- 
fused, and  the  lectures  upon  the  various  kinds  of  whales  illustrate 
Melville's  besetting  weaknesses,  his  lack  of  humor,  and  his  inability  to 
tell  fact  from  fiction.  But  when  the  great  chase  nears  its  end  and  the 
White  Whale  turns  on  its  pursuers  and  rends  them,  there  is  painted  for 
us  an  unforgettable  scene  in  which  the  fury  of  man  goes  down,  defeated, 
bv  jhe  fury  of  the  great  beast,  driven  to  bay  in  its  own  selected  battle 

10  A  revised  edition  of  Typee,  heavily  expurgated,  was  published  a  few  months  after 
the  original.  Later,  a  sequel  appeared. 

11  Knickerbocker  Magazine,  May,  1839.  See  Harrison  Hayford,  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  19  (Dec.  1946),  p.  449;  R.  S.  Garnett,  "Moby  Dick  and  Mocha  Dick,"  Blackwood's 
Magazine,  Vol.  226  (Dec.  1929),  pp.  841-858. 


246  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

oround.  In  this  book  Melville  showed  more  artistry  than  he  was  to  show 
again.  He  prepares  us  for  the  great  struggle  bv  descriptions  of  several 
captures  of  whales  and  so,  at  the  climax,  we  are  familiar  with  the  methods 
of  attack.  It  is  a  pity  he  did  not  more  often  plan  so  carefully,  for  the 
book  is  so  episodic  that  even  the  great  passion  of  Ahab  cannot  make  of 
it  an  artistic  unit.  Melville  seems  to  have  been  deliberate  in  this  seeming 
carelessness,  for  in  Chapter  Eighty-Two  he  says  "There  are  some  enter- 
prises in  which  a  careful  disorderliness  is  the  true  method,"  but  intention 
does  not  always  make  for  righteousness— in  literature.  Even  more  irritat- 
ing is  the  chronic  disorderliness  of  style  on  the  part  of  a  man  who,  at 
his  best,  could  write  "Bethink  thee  of  the  albatross;  whence  came  those 
clouds  of  spiritual  wonderment  and  pale  dread,  in  which  that  white 
phantom  sails  in  all  imaginations.  Not  Coleridge  first  threw  that  spell, 
but  God's  great  unflattering  laureate,  Nature." 

The  descent  from  Moby  Dick  to  Pierre:  or,  The  Ambiguities  (1852), 
is  the  decline  from  imaginative  power  to  confusion,  for  the  household 
of  Pierre,  which  includes  his  former  fiancee  and  his  half  sister,  by  his 
father's  amour,  is  one  of  the  most  absurd  in  the  history  of  human  error. 
Israel  Potter  (1854-55),  a  story  of  the  Revolution,  is  a  satire  upon  the 
failure  to  do  justice  to  its  heroes. 

Next  to  Moby  Dick,  the  best  of  Melville's  fiction  is  a  novelette, 
"Benito  Cereno,"  published  in  Putnam's  Magazine,  from  October  to 
December  1855,  and  included  in  Piazza  Tales  (1856).  He  took  the  prin- 
cipal facts  from  A  Narrative  of  Voyages  and  Travels  in  the  Northern 
and  Southern  Hemisphere  by  Amasa  Delano  (1817),  and  was  faithful 
to  the  original.  But  out  of  the  visit  of  Captain  Delano  to  the  ship  St. 
Dominica,  off  Chile,  which  he  finds  out  of  water  and  food  and  inhabited 
almost  entirely  by  Negroes,  Melville  builds  up  the  suspense  which  arises 
from  a  nameless  danger.  The  haggard  Captain  Benito  Cereno  seems 
afraid  to  tell  Delano  what  is  the  matter,  yet  when  they  near  the  shore 
he  leaps  into  Delano's  boat,  followed  by  Babo,  his  apparently  devoted 
servant,  who  is  trying  to  murder  him.  The  secret  of  the  mutiny  is  out. 
The  ship,  usually  the  sole  dominion  of  the  Captain,  has  become  his 
prison;  he  is  kept  on  board  because  he  is  the  only  navigator.12  The  long 
deposition  of  Captain  Benito  prevents  Melville  from  bringing  the  story  to 
an  effective  climax. 

In  the  same  volume,  "The  Encantadas;  or,  Enchanted  Isles,"  a  series  of 
short  narrations  and  descriptions,  Melville  creates  the  sense  of  solitary 
desolation,  of  rocky  coasts,  "where  the  chief  sound  of  life  is  a  hiss."  The 
story  of  Hunilla,  a  half-breed  Spanish  Indian,  alone  upon  Norfolk  Isles 
after  her  husband's  death,  has  the  quality,  rare  in  Melville,  of  suggesting 
without  explanation  a  danger  beside  which  loneliness  was  happiness.  In 

1  -  Sec  II.  II.  Scudder,  "Melville's  Benito  Cereno  and  Captain  Delano's  Voyages.'1 
PMLA,  Vol.  43  (June,  [928),  pp.  502-532. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER        247 

The  Confidence  Man  (1857),  satire  submerged  the  story,  in  order  to 
picture  the  frauds  who  play  upon  the  credulity  of  passengers  on  a 
Mississippi  steamboat.  It  is  simply  dull. 

After  a  long  inactivity  in  fiction,  during  which  time  he  occupied  a 
position  in  the  custom  service,  Melville  wrote  Billy  Budd,  Foretopman, 
found  in  his  desk  after  his  death.  It  is  a  straightforward  story  of  crime 
upon  an  English  man-of-war  in  1797.  Billy  Budd,  an  impressed  seaman, 
has  been  accused  of  joining  a  mutiny  by  Claggart,  the  master-at-arms,  and 
strikes  him,  killing  him  in  the  captain's  presence.  Budd  is  tried  and 
executed  for  murder,  notwithstanding  his  great  popularity.  Melville 
revealed  here  his  ability  to  portray  innocence  going  down  in  conflict 
with  the  force  of  calumny.  His  reference  to  the  sailor's  life  as  "an 
oblique,  tedious,  barren  game,  hardly  worth  that  poor  candle  burnt  out 
in  playing  it"  is  significant,  considering  how  often  he  had  made  it  the 
basis  of  his  fiction.  He  probably  obtained  his  facts  from  his  cousin, 
Lieutenant  Gansevoort  of  the  United  States  Navy,  who  was  instrumental 
in  preventing  a  mutiny  on  his  ship.13  Melville  contributed,  however, 
nearly  all  the  dramatic  incidents. 

That  Melville  was  not  a  poet,  although  a  recent  collection  of  his  verse 
has  appeared,  is  shown  in  his  two-volume  narrative,  Clarel  (1876).  Clarel 
is  the  central  figure  of  a  group  of  pilgrims  to  the  Holy  Land,  which 
Melville  had  visited  in  1856.  It  is  written  in  a  jog-trog  measure  which 
might  just  as  well  have  been  prose.  Several  creeds  come  in  for  criticism 
and  there  are  references  to  science,  especially  to  Hegel  and  Darwin.  But 
it  all  leads  nowhere. 

While  it  is  true  that  Melville's  greatest  work  is  laid  upon  the  ocean, 
it  is  not  the  sea  itself  which  claims  our  interest;  it  is  the  effect  of  the  sea 
in  limiting  the  passions  of  human  beings  to  the  confines  of  a  ship,  which 
makes  for  intensity  of  danger,  or  it  is  the  sea  as  background  for  the  titanic 
struggle  of  Captain  Ahab  and  the  Whale.  It  was  not  Melville's  fault 
that  he  came,  a  romanticist  as  to  material,  an  idealist  by  method,  when 
the  vogue  of  that  kind  of  romance  was  passing.  But  it  was  his  fault,  as 
Fitz- James  O'Brien  pointed  out,14  that  "he  was  born  to  create  and 
resolved  to  anatomize;  that  he  was  born  to  see  and  insisted  upon  specu- 
lating." But  romance  dies  only  for  a  time,  and  Melville's  best  work  is  now 
secure  from  the  neglect  which  embittered  his  life.  One  sentence  in  Moby 
Dick  explains,  however,  the  periodic  necessity  for  his  "revivials."  "Heaven 
keep  me,"  he  says,  "from  ever  completing  anything."  But  in  art  it  is  those 
things  that  have  been  worked  out  into  the  "serene  balance  of  complete- 
ness" that  need  no  resurrection. 

13  C.  R.  Anderson,  "The  Genesis  of  Billy  Budd,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  12  (Nov.  1940;, 
pp.  331-346. 

14  Putnam's  Monthly  Magazine,  Vol.  9  (April,  1857),  pp.  384-393. 


Chapter  15 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH 

Bryant  steadily  declines  to  be  classified  in  any  group  movement  in  our 
literature.  It  was  not  only  his  pre-eminence  as  our  first  great  poet,  but 
it  was  also  his  choice  of  those  themes  which  hover  on  the  frontiers  of 
life  or  death,  frequently  of  abstract  life  or  death,  which  he  made  his  own. 
Other  poets  of  reflection  have  treated  these  themes,  but  Bryant  is  almost 
unique  in  being  at  once  a  poet  and  also  a  busy  editor  of  a  daily  paper, 
in  the  thick  of  public  affairs  which  are  reflected  only  rarely  or  indirectly 
in  his  verses. 

William  Cullen  Bryant  was  born  in  the  town  of  Cummington,  Massa- 
chusetts, November  3,  1794.  His  father,  Dr.  Peter  Bryant,  came  from 
early  settlers  in  Plymouth  and  on  his  mother's  side  he  was  one  of  John 
Alden's  many  descendants.  From  Bryant's  fifth  year,  when  his  parents 
moved  to  the  homestead  of  his  grandfather,  Ebenezer  Snell,  his  boyhood's 
vision  looked  across  the  magnificent  valley  of  the  Berkshires  to  Mount 
Greylock  with  the  rivulet  of  which  he  later  wrote,  running  past  the 
house.  Although  the  human  aspects  have  changed  today,  it  still  is  a  stimu- 
lating scene. 

Dr.  Bryant  was  an  ardent  Federalist,  and  represented  his  district  in  the 
General  Court  of  Massachusetts.  His  son,  Cullen,  as  he  was  called  in  his 
boyhood,  wrote  a  satire  on  Jefferson's  Embargo  bill,  called  The  Embargo: 
or  Sketches  of  the  Times,  a  Satire,  by  a  Youth  of  Thirteen,  which  was 
published  in  1808.  Even  to  those  acquainted  with  other  vicious  attacks 
on  Jefferson  the  verses  seem  unduly  scurrilous,  and  they  are  best  for- 
gotten, even  although  a  second  edition,  with  additional  verses  on  the 
Spanish  Revolution  and  other  subjects,  was  printed  in  1809  "by  William 
Cullen  Bryant."  In  18 10  Bryant  entered  Williams  College  in  the  sopho- 
more class.  After  a  stay  of  seven  months  in  what  he  called  "a  meagre 
and  slight"  course  of  study,  he  withdrew,  hoping  to  transfer  to  Yale 
College,  but  the  financial  burden  was  too  great  for  his  father.  Bryant 
was    reading    Blair's    Grave,   Bishop    Porteus    on    Death,    Southey    and 

248 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH  249 

Cowper,1  and  the  naturally  serious  tone  of  his  own  feeling  was  strength- 
ened. Irving's  Knickerbocker  impressed  him  so  much  that  he  tried  to 
recite  passages  from  it  at  college.  He  studied  law  and  practiced  at  Great 
Barrington,  but  disliked  it,  and  fortunately  his  father  helped  him  to  make 
a  decision  to  try  literature  as  a  profession.  Dr.  Bryant  discovered  in  an 
old  desk  the  manuscripts  of  "Thanatopsis"  and  other  verses.  He  carefully 
transcribed  "Thanatopsis"  and  the  "Inscription  for  the  Entrance  to  a 
Wood"  and  sent  them  to  Willard  Phillips,  one  of  the  editors  of  the 
North  American  Review,  which  had  recently  begun  its  career.  Phillips 
was  so  highly  impressed  that  he  consulted  his  colleagues,  Richard  H. 
Dana  and  Edwrard  T.  Channing.  To  them  it  seemed  impossible  that  an 
American  had  composed  the  verses  and  only  after  Dana  had  inspected 
Dr.  Bryant  and  found  him  respectable  were  the  poems  accepted  and 
published  in  the  Review  for  September,  18 17. 

In  its  first  publication  "Thanatopsis"  differed  considerably  from  its 
final  form  when  Bryant  had  revised  it  for  his  volume  of  poems,  issued 
in  182 1.  Through  an  error,  four  stanzas  of  another  poem  had  become  at- 
tached to  it  and  these  were  printed  as  a  prelude.  The  lofty  opening: 

To  him  who  in  the  love  of  Nature  holds 
Communion  with  her  visibly  forms,  she  speaks 
A  various  language; . . . 

and  the  magnificent  close: 

So  live,  that  when  thy  summons  comes  to  join 
The  innumerable  caravan,  which  moves 
To  that  mysterious  realm,  where  each  shall  take 
His  chamber  in  the  silent  halls  of  death, 
Thou  go  not,  like  the  quarry-slave  at  night, 
Scourged  to  his  dungeon,  but,  sustained  and  soothed 
By  an  unfaltering  trust,  approach  thy  grave, 
Like  one  who  wraps  the  drapery  of  his  couch 
About  him,  and  lies  down  to  pleasant  dreams.2 

were  not  in  the  poem  that  startled  Dana  and  Channing.  But  there  was 
still  that  rare  quality  that  distinguishes  Bryant  from  every  American  poet 
who  had  preceded  him.  The  "Inscription"  inspired  by  the  woods,  which 
formed  the  background  of  the  Bryant  house,  translates  the  comfort  of 

the  sweet  breeze 
That  makes  the  green  leaves  dance, 

to  the  very  language  of  human  relief  from  sorrow. 

1  Autobiographical  Sketch  in  Parke  Godwin's  Life  (1883-89),  Vol.  1,  p.  37. 

2  There  was  a  manuscript  of  1813-15  and  another  of  1818-21  which  show  Bryant's 
careful  revisions.  See  Tremaine  McDowell,  "Bryant's  Practice  in  Composition  and 
Revision,"  PMLA,  Vol.  52  (June,  1937),  pp.  474"502-  See  also  W-  C-  Bryant,  II,  "The 
Genesis  of  Thanatopsis,"  Neiv  England  Quart.,  Vol.  21  (1948),  pp.  163-184,  for  a  dis- 
cussion of  the  poems  that  preceded  "Thanatopsis." 


2  5o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Encouraged  bv  the  appreciation  of  Phillips,  Bryant  published  "To  A 
Waterfowl"  in  the  Review  in  1818.  His  first  successes  had  been  in  blank 
verse,  in  which  he  showed  his  mastery  over  the  more  subtle  harmonies  of 
the  variations  in  stress  and  of  the  variety  of  overtones,  which  take  the 
place  of  rime.  In  "To  A  Waterfowl"  he  combined  the  unity  of  a  rimed 
stanza  with  the  variety  that  arises  when  the  riming  verses  are  of  a  differ- 
ent number  of  stresses: 

Whither,  midst  falling  dew, 
While  glow  the  heavens  with  the  last  steps  of  day, 
Far,  through  their  rosy  depths,  dost  thou  pursue 

Thy  solitary  way? 

While  Bryant  used  other  measures,  of  course,  his  greatest  poems  are 
either  in  blank  verse  or  rimed  quatrains. 

Bryant  married  Frances  Fairchild  in  January,  182 1,  and  "Oh,  Fairest 
of  the  Rural  Maids"  was  inspired  by  her.  But  the  poem  is  pure  descrip- 
tion; there  is  no  personal  passion  in  it.  In  182 1  Bryant  delivered  the  Phi 
Beta  Kappa  Poem  at  Harvard,  reading  "The  Ages."  It  was  received  with 
such  favor  that  he  was  encouraged  to  publish  it,  together  with  his  other 
verses,  and  the  result  was  the  first  volume  of  his  poems  in  182 1,  containing 
eight  poems  only,  "The  Ages,"  "To  a  Waterfowl,"  "The  Fragment  from 
Simonides,"  "The  Inscription  for  the  Entrance  to  a  Wood,"  "The  Yellow 
Violet,"  "The  Song,"  "Green  River,"  and  "Thanatopsis."  It  was  the  first 
volume  of  really  significant  poetry  by  an  American,  and  came  in  the 
same  year  as  The  Spy  and  only  two  years  after  The  Sketch  Book.  For 
"Green  River"  Bryant  had  turned  again  to  the  inspiration  from  a  local 
rivulet,  at  present  narrow  and  not  deep.  The  harmony  of  vowel  tones 
is  apparent: 

And  forest  and  meadow  and  slope  of  hill 
Around  thee  are  lonely,  lovely  and  still. 

This  poem,  which  was  written  at  Great  Barrington,  also  reflects  his  dislike 
of  the  law,  which  was  strengthened  by  the  moderate  success  of  his 
poetry.  "The  Ages"  is  in  Spenserian  stanza.  It  is  a  survey  of  the  past,  one 
of  Bryant's  favorite  themes,  and  is  more  optimistic  than  his  other  verses 
of  that  time,  such  as  the  "Hymn  to  Death,"  but  it  is  not  one  of  his  great 
poems. 

From  1823  to  1825  Bryant  contributed  twenty-two  poems  to  the 
United  States  Literary  Gazette,  the  editor,  Theophilus  Parsons,  being 
one  of  his  earliest  contacts  with  New  York,  and  agreeing  to  pay  him 
two  dollars  for  each  poem.  Among  these  are  "Autumn  Woods,"  in  the 
same  stanzaic  arrangement  as  "The  Waterfowl,"  and  "The  Forest  Hymn," 
a  celebration  in  blank  verse  of  a  natural  setting  untouched  by  man, 
which  is  a  climax  of  this  early  period  of  Bryant's  poetry. 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH  251 

Early  in  1825  he  took  the  decisive  step  of  abandoning  law  and  became 
one  of  the  editors  of  the  New  York  Review,  at  a  salary  of  one  thousand 
dollars.  Here  he  published  "The  Death  of  the  Flowers,"  revealing  the 
extent  of  his  loss  in  the  death  of  a  younger  sister,  one  of  his  few  concrete 
expressions  of  grief.  Among  his  contributions  were  several  celebrating 
the  Greek  Revolution,  and  in  "The  Firmament,"  he  struck  the  note  of 
content  with  the  skies  of  his  "own  beloved  land."  He  was  constantly 
writing  reviews,  and  he  added  to  his  resources  by  lecturing  on  poetry 
before  the  New  York  Athenaeum  Society,  and  upon  mythology  before 
the  National  Academy  of  the  Arts  of  Design,  an  association  with  S.  F.  B. 
Morse,  Asher  Durand  and  other  painters  which  lasted  all  his  life  or  theirs. 
The  Review  was  not  very  successful,  notwithstanding  mergers  and 
changes  of  title,  finally  becoming  in  July,  1827,  the  United  States  Review 
and  Literary  Gazette.  Bryant  was  discouraged  and  even  thought  of  return- 
ing to  the  practice  of  law. 

One  of  the  poems  of  this  more  mature  period,  "The  Two  Graves,"  is 
important  because  it  represents  Bryant's  belief  at  that  time  concerning 
the  future  life.  He  objects  to  the  "banishment"  of  a  soul  to  another 
existence  and  believes  that  the  dead  are  still  hovering 

...  in  the  yellow  sunshine  and  flowing  air  . . . 

Patient  and  peaceful  and  passionless 

Till  the  day  when  their  bodies  shall  leave  the  ground. 

Just  when  the  skies  were  darkest,  Bryant  was  offered  the  assistant 
editorship  of  the  New  York  Evening  Post,  which  he  filled  from  June, 
1826,  to  July,  1829,  when  he  became  editor.  The  Post  was  one  of  the 
leading  newspapers  in  the  country  and  Bryant  gave  to  it  a  character 
through  his  long  association,  almost  unique  in  American  newspapers.  It 
had  been  a  Federalist  sheet,  but  in  the  election  of  1828  it  supported 
Jackson  and  remained  Democratic  until  the  rise  of  the  free  soil  move- 
ment. His  editorial  work  naturally  interfered  with  the  production  of 
poetry,  but  he  found  time  to  write  for  the  Talisman,  one  of  the  annuals, 
and  to  publish  a  volume  of  poems  in  1831,  containing  about  eighty  new 
ones.  It  was  well  received,  even  in  England,  where  Irving  secured  a 
publisher  and  wrote  an  appreciative  introduction.  The  leading  British 
reviewers,  especially  John  Wilson  in  Blackwood's,  recognized  Bryant's 
originality  and  one,3  in  a  review  which  reprinted  long  selections  from 
eight  poems,  definitely  denied  that  Bryant  imitated  any  British  poet.  It 
was  characteristic,  however,  of  British  criticism  that  the  reviewer  re- 
marked "Mr.  Bryant  must  still  be  regarded  as  a  foreigner." 

Among  the  most  significant  poems  in  this  volume  was  "The  Conjunc- 

3  "Poems  by  William  Cullen  Bryant,  An  American,"  Foreign  Quart.  Review,  Vol. 
10  (Aug.  1832),  pp.  121-138. 


252  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tion  of  Jupiter  and  Venus."  4  In  this  Bryant  made  his  protest  against 
reason  which  kills  romance. 

For  the  spirit  needs 
Impulses  from  a  deeper  source  than  hers, . . . 

I  bow 
Reverently  to  her  dictates,  but  not  less 
Hold  to  the  fair  illusions  of  old  time, 
Illusions  that  shed  brightness  over  life, 
And  glory  over  Nature. 

But  The  Past 5  is  even  more  significant.  Again  Bryant  used  his  favorite 
quatrain,  with  varying  number  of  stresses.  Beginning  with  the  regret  for 
the  lost  treasures  whom  the  past  will  not  return, 

Labors  of  good  to  man, 
Unpublished  charity,  unbroken  faith, 

Love  that  midst  grief  began, 
And  grew  with  years,  and  faltered  not  in  death, . . . 

he  concludes  with  an  optimistic  note,— 

All  that  of  good  and  fair 
Has  gone  into  thy  womb  from  earliest  time, 

Shall  then  come  forth  to  wear 
The  glory  and  the  beauty  of  its  prime. 

The  poem  closes  with  a  reference  to  his  father  and  sister,  whom  he 
expects  to  see  again. 

In  1832  Bryant  took  the  first  of  his  journeys  to  the  West,  where  his 
brothers  were  living.  He  went  across  the  Alleghenies,  by  stage,  down  the 
Ohio  River,  up  the  Mississippi  and  over  the  prairies.  Here  he  received 
his  inspiration  for  his  poem  "The  Prairies,"  written  while  he  was  in 
Illinois,  and  published  in  The  Knickerbocker  Magazine  in  1833.  Begin- 
ning with, 

These  are  the  gardens  of  the  Desert,  these 
The  unshorn  fields,  boundless  and  beautiful, 
For  which  the  speech  of  England  has  no  name— 

Lo!  they  stretch, 

In  airy  undulations,  far  away, 

his  philosophy  of  change  once  more  links  the  original  mound  builders 
to  the  present  and  future  human  race,  the  progress  which  gives  the  mean- 
ing to  life.  It  was  on  this  trip  that  he  first  met  Abraham  Lincoln,  although 
he  did  not  at  that  time  know  who  the  young  militia  captain  was. 

■'  Printed  first  in  The  U.  S.  Literary  Gazette  in  1826. 
r>  Printed  first  in  The  Talisman  (1829). 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH  253 

In  June,  1834,  Bryant  made  the  first  of  his  many  trips  abroad,  visiting 
at  first  France,  Italy  and  Germany,  and  remaining  until  February,  1836. 
His  Letters  of  a  Traveller  were  the  prose  results  of  this  and  other 
journeys.  The  poems  inspired  by  the  European  scene  are  not  among  his 
best. 

Much  more  striking  was  "The  Battlefield, "  published  in  1837,  prompted 
by  the  attacks  upon  him  for  his  share  in  the  liberal  movements  of  the  time, 
for  free  trade  and  abolition: 

For  truths  which  men  receive  not  now, 
Thy  warfare  only  ends  with  life. 

But  these  attacks  only  stung  him  into  one  of  his  great  utterances: 

Truth,  crushed  to  earth,  shall  rise  again; 

Th'  eternal  years  of  God  are  hers, 
But  Error,  wounded,  writhes  in  pain, 
And  dies  among  his  worshippers. 
> 

"The  Battlefield"  as  well  as  another  fine  poem,  "The  Antiquity  of 
Freedom,"  were  included  in  the  new  volume  of  1842.  Bryant's  grim  fight 
against  oligarchy  at  home  and  his  sympathy  with  struggles  abroad 
prompted  this  striking  comparison: 

O  FREEDOM!  thou  art  not,  as  poets  dream, 

A  fair  young  girl,  with  light  and  delicate  limbs, . . . 

A  bearded  man, 
Armed  to  the  teeth,  art  thou;  one  mailed  hand 
Grasps  the  broad  shield,  and  one  the  sword;  thy  brow, 
Glorious  in  beauty  though  it  be,  is  scarred 
With  tokens  of  old  wars; . . . 

In  1 845  he  went  to  England  where  he  found  his  reputation  well  estab- 
lished, and  in  1846  another  volume  of  poems  was  published,  whose  recep- 
tion showed  no  falling  off  in  critical  estimation  at  home.  Among  the  best 
of  the  poems  of  the  later  forties  and  the  fifties  were  "Oh  Mother  of  a 
Mighty  Race,"  with  its  dignified  praise  of  our  better  qualities;  "The 
Conqueror's  Grave,"  a  tribute  to  a  young  woman  of  New  York  who 
had  devoted  her  life  to  charitable  work: 

By  that  victorious  hand  despair  was  slain. 

"Robert  of  Lincoln"  struck  a  gayer  note  and  an  appealing  lilt  which 
have  made  it  a  favorite.  Many  of  the  poems  of  nature  through  the  fifties 
and  sixties  had  a  minor  note,  reflecting  Mrs.  Bryant's  death  or  his  own 
advancing  years,  but  there  was  also  an  optimistic  tone  in  "The  Constella- 
tions," which  remind  him  that  although  he  cannot  see  the  stars  they  are 
really  there,  and  it  is  his  own  vision  that  is  at  fault.  "Italy,"  is  an  effective 


254  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

celebration  of  liberty.  "Not  Yet"  and  "Our  Country's  Call"  were  inspired 
bv  the  opening  of  the  Civil  War.  Yet  the  most  ambitious  of  his  poems 
in  the  sixties  were  "Sella,,  and  "The  Little  People  of  the  Snow,"  fairy 
tales. 

Among  the  poems  Bryant  included  in  his  volume  of  1864,  Thirty 
Poems,  one  of  the  most  significant  is  "The  Poet,"  in  which  he  urged: 

The  secret  wouldst  thou  know 

To  touch  the  heart  or  fire  the  blood  at  will? 

Let  thine  own  eyes  o'erflow; 

Let  thy  lips  quiver  with  the  passionate  thrill; 

Seize  the  great  thought,  ere  yet  its  power  be  past, 
And  bind,  in  words,  the  fleet  emotion  fast. 

Then,  should  thy  verse  appear 

Halting  and  harsh,  and  all  unaptly  wrought, 

Touch  the  crude  line  with  fear, 

Save  in  the  moment  of  impassioned  thought; 

Then  summon  back  the  original  glow,  and  mend 
The  strain  with  rapture  that  with  fire  was  penned. 

This  theory  of  poetry  is  remarkably  like  that  expressed  by  Poe  in 
"Israfel." 

Beginning,  "Oh,  slow  to  smite  and  swift  to  spare,"  "Abraham  Lincoln" 
was  written  at  the  request  of  the  committee  of  arrangements  when  the 
body  of  the  President  was  carried  in  funeral  procession  through  New 
York  City.  Bryant  had  dealt  in  prose  with  the  tragic  event  in  The  Post 
on  April  14th.0 

The  poems  of  the  seventies  showed  no  apparent  falling  off  in  power, 
and  the  approach  of  his  own  death  inspired  one  of  his  noblest  utterances. 
"The  Flood  of  Years"  is  a  great  conception.  The  flood  that  sweeps  over 
all  at  first  seems  to  strike  a  pessimistic  note,  for  good  and  evil  go  down 
alike,  and  when  he  turns  to  survey  the  past  it  is  also  a  welter  of  waves 
in  which  "fond  words  and  vows  of  friendship"  have  disappeared.  Then 
he  looks  beyond  the  barriers  of  life  and  he  sees  first  the  brood  of  Hope 
and  then: 

A  belt  of  darkness  seems  to  bar  the  way, 
Long,  low,  and  distant,  where  the  Life  to  come 
Touches  the  Life  that  is. 

But  the  Flood  of  Years  sweeps  past  the  barrier  and  gathers  all: 

Noble,  and  truly  great  and  worthy  of  love. 

Unlike  Dante,  to  Bryant, 

G  Sec  Godwin's  Life  and  Works,  Vol.  2,  pp.  228-230,  for  the  editorial. 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH  255 

. . .  Old   sorrows   are   forgotten   now 

Or  but  remembered  to  make  sweet  the  hour 

That  overpays  them; 

Bryant  was  constantly  translating  poetry  from  his  earliest  years,  from 
Spanish,  French,  Portuguese,  and  German.  His  greatest  work  was  his 
translation  of  the  Iliad  and  the  Odyssey.  He  first  as  an  experiment  trans- 
lated the  Fifth  Book  of  the  Odyssey,  dealing  with  Ulysses'  flight  from 
Calypso,  and  published  it  among  his  Thirty  Poems  in  1864.  In  his  preface 
to  the  Iliad  Bryant  says  that  he  began  it  in  1865.7  It  was  published  in 
1870  and  the  Odyssey  in  1872.  He  chose  blank  verse  because  he  believed  it 
permitted  him  to  keep  closely  to  the  original.  He  had  read  Pope's  transla- 
tion when  a  boy  and  it  had  made  a  deep  impression  upon  him.  Some  lovers 
of  Homer  will  prefer  the  five-stress  couplet  of  Pope  or  the  septenary 
of  Chapman,  but  Bryant's  translations  have  taken  their  place  as  one  of 
the  most  faithful  versions,  and  in  the  opinion  of  some  Greek  scholars, 
as  the  best.  He  had  a  reserved  strength  in  his  verse  which  made  him 
eminently  suitable  for  a  translator  of  classical  poetry.  In  his  introductions 
Bryant  argued  that  his  use  of  the  Roman  names  of  the  gods  instead  of 
their  Greek  names  was  permissible  because  the  Latin  names  were  more 
widely  known.  But  he  seemed  to  forget  that  the  Greek  gods  are  different 
in  their  nature,  more  primitive,  more  human  in  their  loves  and  hates,  and 
in  any  event  he  used  Pallas  and  Minerva  interchangeably. 

If  at  first  glance,  Bryant's  insistence  in  "The  Poet"  upon  "an  impas- 
sioned thought"  seems  to  be  at  variance  with  his  achievement  as  a  poet 
of  reflection  and  abstraction,  there  is  no  real  conflict.  There  are,  of  course, 
quite  a  few  of  Bryant's  verses  that  are  purely  objective  description,  but 
the  apparent  calm  that  shines  upon  the  surface  of  his  great  poems  arises 
from  the  reserve  strength  of  his  expression.  The  deeps  were  stirred.  To 
a  certain  degree,  he  turned  from  life  to  poetry  for  a  solace  and  relief. 
In  the  days  of  his  disappointment  over  his  frustrated  college  ambition 
he  wrote  "Thanatopsis"  and  "To  a  Waterfowl."  In  the  dark  days  in  New 
York  in  1825  came  "The  Death  of  the  Flowers"  and  in  1837,  when  the 
fortunes  of  the  Post  were  at  a  low  ebb,  he  wrote  "The  Battlefield."  His 
sorrow  at  Mrs.  Bryant's  death  caused  him  to  write  the  beautiful,  if  un- 
finished, poem  commencing: 

The  morn  hath  not  the  glory  that  it  wore 

7  He  published  portions  of  the  translation  of  the  Iliad  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  as 
follows:  "The  Parting  of  Hector  and  Andromache,"  Vol.  16  (Dec.  1865),  pp.  657-659; 
"The  Contention  between  Achilles  and  Agamemnon,"  Vol.  19  (Jan.  1867),  pp.  92-99; 
"The  Contest  between  Diomed  and  Mars,"  Vol.  21  (Jan.  1868),  p.  47;  "The  Descent 
of  Neptune,"  Vol.  25  (Jan.  1870),  p.  113.  In  the  Galaxy:  "The  Flight  of  Diomed," 
Vol.  7  (Jan.  1869),  pp.  88-90,  was  published.  In  Godwin's  Life  and  Works,  Vol.  2, 
p.  193,  and  in  Bigelow's  Bryant  (1896),  p.  160,  it  is  stated  that  Bryant  published  first 
the  translation  of  the  Fifth  Book  of  the  Odyssey  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  in  1863.  I 
can  find  no  passage  from  the  Odyssey  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  either  in  1863  or  at 
any  other  date. 


256  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

while  the  approach  of  his  own  death  brought  forth  one  of  his  noblest 
poems,  "The  Flood  of  Years."  But  if  he  turned  from  concrete  life  at 
times  it  was  because  he  believed  that  the  universal  note  was  the  tone 
which  poetry  of  permanent  value  should  strike.  His  constant  themes 
are  Nature,  Death,  the  Past  and  Human  Freedom.  Nature  was  the  chief 
external  force  that  affected  him  and  the  effect  of  Nature  upon  man  is 
the  keynote  of  nearly  all  his  masterpieces.  He  grew  up  surrounded  by  a 
lovely  landscape  and  when  he  left  it  for  New  York  City,  he  found  com- 
fort in  the  beauty  of  the  Hudson  River.  Of  the  one  hundred  and  ninety 
original  poems  in  the  Godwin  edition  sixty  deal  definitely  with  Nature 
and  references  occur  in  many  of  the  others.  Nature  is  not  static  with 
Bryant-  he  is  concerned  with  her  processes,  the_wind.  snow,  rajjy  the 
sjr£ams1_the_tides  of  jjhg^sjga.  In  the  "Song  of  the  Sower"  he  traces  the 
grain  through  all  the  aspects  of  life  that  depend  upon  it,  from  the  starved 
life  of  the  alleys  of  the  poor  to  the  consecrated  bread  of  the  Altar.  Often 
the  themeofJDerith  is  intertwined  with  that  of  Nature.  Brvant  looked 
upon  Death  as  a^spiritual  frontier  to  be  approached  with  courage.  Even 
ifTnanis  to  "mix  forever  with  the  elements"  and  "be  a  brother  to  the 
insensible  rock"  he  is  to  approach  his  grave  "sustained  and  soothed  by  an 
unfaltering  trust."  Thus  iqJ^hanatopsis"  he  indicated  anjrncertainty 
concernin^_the_odiej^ideof  this  frontier  which  isreflected  in  "The  Flood 
of  Years  '  in^the  swift  whirl  oFERe  waters  of  oblivion  against  the  foremost 
edge,  where  alone  is  Life,  until  the  doubt  is  finally  resolved  in  the  more 
hopeful  close.  The  "mighty  Hand"  which  pours  forth  the  flood  is  to 
Bryant  a  universal  presence,  not  a  personal  God  or  Saviour.  Bryant's 
concern  with  the  Past  is  also  due  to  his  preference  for  the  universal  note. 
It  is  a  living  force,  absorbing  love  and  other  human  relations,  but  ulti- 
mately restoring  them,  and  providing  themes  rendered  noble  by  the 
lights  of  illusion.  More  concrete  were  the  poems  which  sounded  the 
challenge  for  freedom.  Here  his  poetry  approaches  more  nearly  to  his 
prose  utterances,  and  gave  him  the  inspiration  to  put  into  one  immortal 
quatrain  in  "The  Battlefield"  an  epitome  of  life. 

Bryant's  prose  includes  his  critical  essays,  his  early  short  stories,  his 
public  addresses,  his  sketches  of  travel,  his  prefaces  to  volumes  of  which 
he  was  editor  and  his  editorials  in  the  Post.  The  fiction  and  the  travel 
sketches  need  not  detain  us,  and  only  a  brief  mention  of  the  articles  in  the 
Post  can  here  be  attempted.  But  among  his  critical  essays  there  are  many 
significant  judgments  which  will  be  treated  in  a  later  discussion  of  the 
development  of  our  criticism.8  His  "Lectures  on  Poetry"  delivered  in 
1825  are  important  in  any  evaluation  of  his  own  verse.  "Poetry,"  he  said, 
"is  that  art  which  selects  and  arranges  the  symbols  of  thought  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  excite  it  the  most  powerfully  and  delightfully."  9  He  be- 

8  See  Chapter  24. 

!>  Prose  Writings,  ed.  Godwin,  Vol.  1,  p.  6.  Following  references  are  to  this  edition. 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH  257 

lieved  that  "poetry  not  only  addresses  the  passions  and  the  imagination; 
...  it  appeals  to  the  understanding  also."  10  He  rejected  the  didactic  but 
insisted  upon  those  universal  and  elementary  moral  truths  which  the 
mind  instinctively  acknowledges.  His  distinction  between  poetry  and 
prose  which  states  that  the  first  "excludes  all  that  disgusts,  all  that  tasks 
and  fatigues  the  understanding  and  all  that  is  too  trivial  and  common 
to  excite  any  emotion  whatever,"  1T  is  still  comforting  to  those  who 
prefer  to  keep  nonsense  out  of  poetry.  The  close  of  the  first  lecture 
rejecting  the  idea  that  any  one  can  be  completely  dead  to  poetry  says 
about  all  there  is  to  say: 

...  Is  there  any  one  among  them  who  will  confess  himself  insensible  to  the 
beauty  of  order  or  to  the  pleasure  of  variety— two  principles,  the  happv 
mingling  of  which  makes  the  perfection  of  poetic  numbers?  Is  there  any  one 
whose  eye  is  undelighted  with  beautiful  forms  and  colors,  whose  ear  is  not 
charmed  by  sweet  sounds,  and  who  sees  no  loveliness  in  the  returns  of  light 
and  darkness,  and  the  changes  of  the  seasons?  Is  there  any  one  for  whom  the 
works  of  Nature  have  no  associations  but  such  as  relate  to  his  animal  wants? 
Is  there  any  one  to  whom  her  great  courses  and  operations  show  no  majesty, 
to  whom  thev  impart  no  knowledge,  and  from  whom  they  hide  no  secrets? 
Is  there  any  one  who  is  attached  by  no  ties  to  his  fellow-beings,  who  has  no 
hopes  for  the  future,  and  no  memory  of  the  past?  Have  they  all  forgotten  the 
days  and  the  friends  of  their  childhood,  and  do  they  all  shut  their  eyes  to  the 
advances  of  age?  Have  they  nothing  to  desire  and  nothing  to  lament,  and  are 
their  minds  never  darkened  with  the  shadows  of  fear?  Is  it,  in  short,  for  these 
men  that  life  has  no  pleasure  and  no  pains,  the  grave  no  solemnity,  and  the 
world  to  come  no  mysteries?  All  these  things  are  the  sources  of  poetry,  and 
they  are  not  only  part  of  ourselves,  but  of  the  universe,  and  will  expire  only 
with  the  last  of  the  creatures  of  God.12 

It  is  of  especial  significance,  in  view  of  Bryant's  constant  treatment  of 
the  frontiers  of  life  and  death,  that  he  says  in  the  third  lecture,  "On 
Poetry  in  its  Relation  to  our  Age  and  Country": 

The  clearing  up  of  one  mystery  conducts  it  to  another;  all  its  discoveries  are 
bounded  by  a  circle  of  doubt  and  ignorance  which  is  wide  in  proportion  to  the 
knowledge  it  enfolds.  It  is  a  pledge  of  the  immortal  destinies  of  the  human 
intellect  that  it  is  forever  drawn  by  a  strong  attraction  to  the  darker  edge 
of  this  circle,  and  forever  attempting  to  penetrate  the  obscurities  beyond.13 

In  view  of  the  critical  stupidity  that  called  Bryant  "the  American 
Wordsworth"  his  own  distinction  between  mere  imitation  and  that 
stimulation  which  the  poetry  of  one  age  gives  to  another  is  especially 
valid.  Bryant  wrote  his  poetry  in  accordance  with  his  principles,  and 

10  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  11. 

11  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  13. 

12  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  13. 

13  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  28. 


258  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

he  held  them  still  when  he  wrote  his  "Poets  and  Poetry  of  the  English 
Language"  as  an  introduction  to  his  Library  of  Poetry  and  Song  in  1870. 

Bryant's  relations  with  other  American  authors  indicate  clearly  his 
powerful  effect  upon  the  development  of  American  literature.  As  Irving 
helped  him  to  secure  an  audience  in  England,  so  he  was  ready  to  use  the 
power  of  his  position  as  critic  and  editor  to  encourage  those  who  deserved 
it.  Others  echoed  in  various  ways  Longfellow's  reply  in  1846  to  Bryant's 
cordial  letter  praising  a  younger  rival:  "When  I  look  back  upon  my  earlier 
years,  I  cannot  but  smile  to  see  how  much  in  them  is  really  yours."  14 
How  they  felt  toward  him  was  shown  in  the  celebration  of  his  seventieth 
birthday  at  the  Century  Association  in  November,  1864.  Such  occasions 
often  become  conventional,  but  the  many  tributes  from  writers,  painters 
and  sculptors,  present  or  unavoidably  absent,  are  sincere  and  heartfelt. 
In  the  shadow  of  war,  he  became  to  them  a  symbol  of  national  pride  and 
unity.  Among  the  noteworthy  tributes  were  Bancroft's  introduction: 
"You  preserve  in  all  its  freshness  the  youth  of  the  soul";  Emerson's  praise 
of  his  originality;  Lowell's  "On  Board  the  '76";  Holmes'  impassioned 
verses;  and  the  more  extended  poems  of  the  younger  generation,  Taylor, 
Boker,  Stoddard  and  others.  Daniel  Huntington  represented  the  artists, 
speaking  of  Bryant  as  the  poet  who  made  known  to  mankind  our  northern 
landscape. 

Bryant  had  been  recognized  long  before  as  the  natural  choice  to 
celebrate  the  achievements  of  Cooper,  Irving,  Halleck  and  others.  Bryant 
had  known  Cooper  in  their  early  days  of  the  Bread  and  Cheese  Club,  and 
his  address  has  been  the  source  both  for  the  facts  of  Cooper's  life  and 
for  a  keen  analysis  of  his  writing,  to  reappear  in  every  important  biog- 
raphy of  Cooper.  The  addresses  on  Irving  and  Halleck  have  been  of 
equal  service  to  many  who  have  not  always  acknowledged  it. 

Bryant  had  an  unusual  ability  in  the  making  of  public  addresses,  and 
he  was  given  many  opportunities.  Among  these,  next  to  those  just  men- 
tioned, were  the  eloquent  tribute  to  Kossuth  in  1 851;  to  Schiller  in  1859, 
in  which  he  said  truly:  "It  was  his  maxim  that  he  who  wrote  for  one 
nation  only  proposed  to  himself  a  poor  and  narrow  aim"  and  to  John 
Winthrop  in  i860.  His  pleas  for  freedom  of  trade  before  various  asso- 
ciations, could  be  read  today  with  profit.  "What  is  free  labor,"  he  de- 
manded in  1874,  "if  we  are  not  permitted  a  free  exchange  of  the  fruits 
of  our  labor?"  One  of  his  loftiest  expressions,  given  in  the  address  "On 
the  Electric  Telegraph"  in  1868  deserves  complete  quotation,  impossible 
here,  of  which  two  sentences  show  the  cadence  of  the  poet: 

That  slender  wire  thrills  with  the  hopes  and  fears  of  nations;  it  vibrates  to  every 
emotion   that  can  be  awakened  by   any   event  affecting  the   welfare   of  the 

11  Life  cvhi  Works,  Vol.  2,  p.  25. 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH  259 

human  race.  A  volume  of  contemporary  history  passes  every  hour  of  the  day 
from  one  continent  to  the  other.15 

His  last  public  address,  made  on  the  unveiling  of  the  statue  of  Mazzini 
in  Central  Park,  May  29,  1878,  was  a  plea  for  freedom  of  thought.  Shortly 
after  making  the  address,  he  fell,  striking  his  head,  an'd  after  lingering 
for  fourteen  days,  he  died  on  June  12,  1878. 

If  Bryant's  editorials  in  the  Post  do  not  rise  so  frequently  to  the  level 
of  literature  as  his  addresses,  it  is  only  because  of  the  relatively  large 
number  of  the  former.  When  he  defends  the  freedom  of  speech;  1<;  criti- 
cizes our  sensitiveness  to  foreign  opinion; 1T  satirizes  the  newspaper 
attacks  on  the  Post:  "There  is  a  little  dog  [at  Naples]  who  comes  out 
every  morning  and  barks  at  Vesuvius;"  or  gives  a  stinging  answer  to 
British  misrepresentations  during  the  Civil  War,18  Bryant  wrote  sinewy 
prose  and  revealed  an  ability  to  secure  just  the  proper  tone  of  contempt 
for  his  opponents  which  would  not  have  been  suspected  in  a  poet. 

Bryant's  constant  interest  in  the  American  scene  is  shown  in  the  two 
bulky  volumes  of  Picturesque  America  (1872-74)  which  he  edited. 
According  to  the  introduction,  his  own  love  of  Nature  is  reflected  in 
the  choice  of  the  localities  from  the  coast  of  Maine  to  the  coast  of  Cali- 
fornia which  reveal  her  in  her  loftiest  moods.  The  prose  sketches  were 
written  by  playwrights  like  Oliver  Bunce,  novelists  like  Constance  Feni- 
more  Woolson  or  John  Esten  Cooke,  and  the  drawings  were  made  by 
competent  artists.  There  was  nothing  perfunctory  about  this  collection 
of  essays.  The  charming  picture  by  Thomas  March  Clark  of  Newport, 
where  he  is  buried,  or  Miss  Woolson's  eloquent  description  of  Lake 
Superior,  are  bits  of  literary  mosaic.  Bryant  did  not  simply  put  his  name 
to  the  book;  he  was  the  real  editor  and  how  much  of  his  own  sense  of 
beauty  was  transferred  to  the  volume  must  remain  a  matter  of  specula- 
tion. Reading  such  a  book  now,  and  especially  looking  at  the  illustrations, 
emphasizes  the  changelessness  of  the  Rockies  and  the  fundamental  dif- 
ferences which  seventy-five  years  have  made  in  the  great  cities. 

It  is  difficult  to  overestimate  Bryant's  contribution  to  the  development 
of  our  literature.  It  is  much  easier  to  underestimate  it.  He  wrote  at  a  time 
when  it  was  considered  impossible  for  an  American  to  write  poetry  of 
merit  and  before  he  died  he  saw  American  literature  honored  both  at 
home  and  abroad.  There  was  a  nobility  to  Bryant's  poetry  and  prose,  a 
loftiness  that  reflected  the  high  standards  of  conduct  of  the  man  who 
said  that  ua  gentleman  never  speaks  of  his  love  or  his  religion"— of  a  man 

15  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  2,  p.  259. 

16  "Abolition  Riots,'1  Aug.  8,  1836.  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  2,  p.  378.  See  also  Chap- 
ter 25. 

17  Jan.  11,  1839.  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  2,  pp.  389-390. 

18  "Lord  Brougham's  Last  Contribution  to  Social  Science,1'  Oct.  22,  1863.  Prose 
Writings,  Vol.  2,  pp.  399-402. 


26o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

who  knew  the  evils  of  life  and  spoke  of  them  so  often  in  his  verse  that 
it  gives,  when  read  continuously,  almost  a  pessimistic  impression.  Yet 
in  his  greater  utterances  he  rises  to  a  disillusioned  optimism,  that  hopes 
for  a  better  day  when  the  frontiers  of  human  understanding  will  be 
merged  into  a  world  where  freedom  will  come  to  all  men. 


Bryant's  encouragement  and  influence  are  seen  in  the  poetry  of  Fitz- 
Greene  Halleck,  born  in  Connecticut,  July  8,  1790.  Halleck  depended 
for  a  livelihood  on  his  business  association  with  John  J.  Astor  and  others, 
and  wrote  only  occasionally.  He  lived  until  1867  but  his  important  work 
was  done  by  1828.  He  began  by  the  publication  in  18 19  in  the  New  York 
Post,  of  some  clever  satirical  verses,  written  with  Joseph  Rodman  Drake, 
which  depict  authors,  painters,  men  of  science  and  politicians  in  a  manner  I 
which  should  be  a  mine  for  the  social  historian.  Halleck's  longer  verse  ' 
satire,  "Fanny,"  with  its  Byronic  flavor,  is  now  forgotten.  But  these  are 
not  the  poems  by  which  Halleck  is  to  be  judged.  Drake,  who  had  been 
born  in  New  York  City  in  1795,  died  in  1820  and  Halleck's  poem  "On 
the  Death  of  Joseph  Rodman  Drake"  remains  one  of  the  most  exquisite 
tributes  from  one  poet  to  another  in  the  language.  The  opening  stanza: 

Green  be   the   turf  above  thee, 
Friend  of  my  better  days! 
None  knew  thee  but  to  love  thee 
Nor  named  thee  but  to  praise 

is  one  of  those  rare  events  in  which  the  heartfelt  sincerity  and  the  perfect 
form  unite.  Halleck  visited  Europe  in  1822  and  after  his  return  wrote  his 
"jMarco  Bozzaris,"  "Burns,"  and  "Wyoming"  for  Bryant's  New  York  Re- 
view or  United  States  Review.  "Marco  Bozzaris"  is  an  excellent  illustra- 
tion of  the  difference  between  poetry  and  rhetoric.  The  opening  of  this 
tribute  to  the  Greek  leader  who  fell  in  the  moment  of  victory  at  Karpenisi, 
in  1823,  begins  with  spirited  rhetorical  flourishes,  but  when  Halleck  ap- 
proaches his  contrast  of  the  various  forms  of  death,  he  rises  to  an  imagina- 
tive conception,  until  the  poem  reaches  its  climax  in  the  lines: 

Bozzaris!  with  the  storied  brave 

Greece  nurtured  in  her  glory's  time, 
Rest  thee— there  is  no  prouder  grave, 
Even  in  her  own  proud  clime. 
She  wore  no  funeral  weeds  for  thee, 

Nor  bade  the  dark  hearse  wave  its  plume, 
Like   torn   branch   from   death's   leafless   tree 

In  sorrow's  pomp  and  pageantry, 
The  heartless  luxury  of  the  tomb: 
But  she  remembers  thee  as  one 
Long  loved,  and  for  a  season  gone; 


THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH  261 

It  is  not  only  the  thought  but  also  the  skillful  use  of  open  and  closed 
vowels  that  make  this  memorable.  "Burns"  has  many  of  these  phrases  in 
which,  as  Bryant  said,  the  thought  and  the  form  seem  one: 

His  is  that  language  of  the  heart 

In  which  the  answering  heart  would  speak, 

or  in  which  Burns'  grave  is  called  "one  of  the  Meccas  of  the  mind." 
Halleck  treated  native  themes  also  in  "The  Field  of  the  Grounded  Arms," 
celebrating  the  battle  of  Saratoga,  or  "Red jacket,"  a  memorial  tribute  to 
the  famous  Indian  Chief.  It  is  noteworthy  that  just  as  Bryant  dealt  so 
often  with  death,  Halleck's  best  poems  deal  with  it  also,  but  it  is  concrete 
rather  than  abstract  death.  That  is  probably  the  reason  why  the  "Elegy 
on  Drake"  is  still  recited,  even  over  the  radio. 

In  the  volume  containing  the  addresses  at  the  unveiling  of  the  Halleck 
memorials  at  Guilford,  Connecticut,  in  1869  and  of  his  statue  in  Central 
Park  in  1877,  the  statement  was  made  that  these  were  the  first  such 
tributes  to  be  made  to  an  American  author.  Graceful  verses  by  Holmes 
and  discriminating  analyses  of  Halleck's  poetry  were  delivered  by  Bayard 
Taylor  and  by  William  Allen  Butler. 

The  poems  of  Drake  were  not  collected  until  after  his  death.  The  chief 
poem,  "The  Culprit  Fay,"  written  in  18 16,  has  some  fine  fanciful  touches, 
and  a  luxuriance  of  phrasing,  and  "The  American  Flag,"  despite  its  rhetori- 
cal stanzas,  has  been  carried  by  its  genuine  feeling  into  the  permanence 
of  anthologies.  But  Drake  is  interesting  by  his  promise  rather  than  by 
his  performance. 

To  Bryant's  circle  of  contributors  to  the  Neiv  York  Review  belonged 
Richard  Henry  Dana,  Senior  (1787-1879),  who  also  edited  a  periodical 
of  his  own,  The  Idle  Man  (1821-22).  His  verse  is  either  romantic  nar- 
rative like  "The  Buccaneer,"  or  philosophic  discussion  of  love  like  "Facti- 
tious Life,"  or  "Thoughts  on  the  Soul,"  evidently  not  fit  subjects  for 
verse.  "The  Dying  Raven"  is  interesting  only  because  the  bird  is  an 
emblem  of  hope  and  comfort.  Perhaps  the  best  is  "The  Death  of  Washing- 
ton Allston,"  one  of  the  many  tributes  to  his  influence.  Dana  was  like 
Bryant,  constantly  interested  in  Death. 


Chapter  16 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM 

While  Bryant,  Halleck  and  Willis  left  New  England  to  find  a  more 
active  publishing  centre  in  New  York,  a  movement,  philosophical  and 
religious  in  its  primary  impulse,  and  idealistic  in  its  literary  method  of 
expression,  grew  up  in  New  England.  It  developed  through  the  early 
years  of  the  century  and,  beginning  about  1830,  the  cross  currents  of 
discussion  which  made  up  its  life,  found  their  serene  resolution  in  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson.  In  his  own  life  he  passed  through  two  of  its  phases, 
Unitarianism  and  Transcendentalism. 

Unitarianism  in  New  England  developed  out  of  the  orthodox  Calvinistic 
theology  by  denying  some  of  its  essential  doctrines.  Yet  the  two  churches, 
Congregational  and  Unitarian,  at  Plymouth,  have  each  a  tablet  announc- 
ing that  it  is  the  lineal  descendant  of  the  first  church  in  New  England! 
The  cardinal  principle  of  the  Unitarian  philosophy  was  a  belief  in  the  re- 
generating influence  of  man  upon  himself;  therefore,  there  was  no  neces- 
sity for  a  mediator;  the  mystical  spirit  was  also  unnecessary  and  thence 
came  the  idea  of  Unity,  the  one  God.1  This  position,  stated  by  the 
Reverend  Nathaniel  Frothingham  in  1835,  was  not  established  without 
a  struggle.  Harvard  University  went  over  to  Unitarianism  in  1805,  and 
it  is  not  unfair  to  say  that  it  became  ultimately  quite  as  much  an  intel- 
lectual caste  as  a  theological  position.  It  represented  in  its  ramifications 
many  phases  of  thought.  At  one  extreme  stood  a  man  like  William  Ellery 
Channing,  the  elder,  (1780- 1842).  The  main  contribution  of  Channing 
was  his  eloquent  plea  for  spirituality  in  religion,  for  purity  of  life,  for 
independence  of  thought  and  continuity  of  reform.  He  became  the 
apostle  of  the  movement  in  18 19  in  his  "Discourse  at  the  Ordination  of 
Jared  Sparks."  From  a  literary  point  of  view  his  "Discourse  on  the  Evi- 

1  The  clearest  expressions  of  the  Unitarian  position  is  perhaps  that  of  O.  B. 
Frothingham,  Boston  Vmtariamsm  (1890);  of  VV.  E.  Channing,  referred  to  in  the 
text;  and  from  a  critical  point  of  view,  that  of  Orestes  Brownson,  in  his  review  of 
Emerson's  Essays,  Boston  Quart.  Review,  Vol.  4  (July,  1841),  pp.  294-297. 

262 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM  263 

dence  of  Revealed  Religion"  (1821)  containing  a  logical  and  powerful 
argument  for  his  form  of  Christianity,  is  the  best.  Channing  passed  out 
of  "orthodox"  Unitarianism  when  it  became  too  definitely  established. 

Theodore  Parker  (1810-60),  represented  the  other  extreme,  practical, 
human,  preferring  reforms  of  slavery,  intemperance,  and  other  evils  to 
the  creation  of  works  of  permanent  literary  value.  Notwithstanding  his 
voluminous  writings,  his  effect  was  mainly  due  to  his  vigorous  personality. 
His  proof  of  God  by  intuition  was  of  course  not  new;  but  his  critical 
ability  was,  at  times,  quite  high. 

There  has  rarely  been  a  race  so  conscious  of  the  value  of  the  written 
word  as  the  Puritan  of  New  England,  and  the  Transcendentalists  were  so 
perennially  conscious  of  the  desire  for  self-expression  that  the  movement 
has  taken  a  position  in  the  history  of  American  ideas  somewhat  out  of 
proportion  to  its  relative  importance.  It  was  one  of  many  phases  of  re- 
volt against  tradition  and  authority  and  there  is  no  paradox  in  the  fact 
that  it  flourished  in  a  period  of  Jacksonian  democracy,  which  was  also 
throwing  off  the  shackles  of  oligarchy  in  the  field  of  politics.  Democracy 
is  the  most  fruitful  source  of  individuality,  and  the  founding  of  new  sects 
like  the  Universalist  or  the  "Broad"  Churches  emphasized  the  brother- 
hood of  Christ  rather  than  the  fatherhood  of  God.  It  was  the  time  when 
new  parties  were  formed  and  broken  up,  when  pseudo-sciences  like 
hypnotism  and  phrenology  took  hold  of  the  imagination  or  credulity  of 
the  people)  Many  of  these,  however  much  noise  they  made,  were  in- 
articulate so  far  as  literature  was  concerned.  The  Dial  is  important  not  so 
much  because  of  its  connection  with  the  Transcendentalist  movement, 
but  because  Emerson  was  its  editor  and  because  of  the  literature  it  con- 
tains. Brook  Farm,  the  Transcendentalist  community,  was  only  a  minor 
experiment  among  many  others  of  greater  extent  and  success,  but  Haw- 
thorne laid  the  scene  of  the  Blithedale  Romance  in  it,  and  so  many  of  the 
members  wrote  about  it  that  it  is  remembered.  The  general  atmosphere 
was  therefore  hospitable  to  new  ideas,  and  was  ready  for  leaders  who 
would  crystalize  them  into  a  philosophic  movement. 

Another  phase  that  has  been  overestimated  is  the  foreign  inspiration 
of  Transcendentalism.  As  Orestes  Brownson,  one  of  the  keenest  of  the 
group,  said  in  1840: 

The  movement  is  really  of  American  origin,  and  the  prominent  actors  in  it 
were  carried  away  by  it  before  ever  they  formed  any  acquaintance  with  French 
or  German  metaphysics  and  their  attachment  to  the  literatures  of  France  and 
Germany  is  the  effect  of  their  connection  with  the  movement,  not  the  cause.2 


They  were  attracted  to  German  thought  because  Immanuel  Kant  in  1781, 
in  his  Critique  of  Pure  Reason,  had  attempted  to  reach  the  ultimate  source 


\in 


2  Boston    Quart.    Review,    Vol.    3,    pp.    270-271,    quoted    from    Clarence    Gohdes, 
Periodicals  of  American  Transcendentalism   (1930). 


264  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  knowledge  by  assuming  the  existence  of  both  mind  and  matter,  and 
positing,  as  the  condition  of  both,  certain  a  priori  conceptions,  classified 
by  a  supreme  Faculty,  the  Reason.  These  conceptions,  Quantity,  Quality, 
Relation  and  Modality,  he  called  Transcendental. 

Kant's  disciple,  Frederick  Jacobi,  carried  his  idea  further  by  stating 
that  intuition  was  the  greatest  proof  of  the  existence  of  God  and  the 
sensible  world.  This  supremacy  of  intuition  was  the  principal  idea  that 
reached  New  England,  and  it  filtered  through  Coleridge  and  the  French 
philosopher,  Cousin,  rather  than  coming  directly,  for  the  good  reason 
that  yery  few  of  the  New  England  Transcendentalists  knew  German 
well  enough  to  read  Kant  or  Jacobi. 

Coleridge's  Aids  to  Reflection  was  republished  in  the  United  States  in  j 
1829,  and  his  philosophy,  of  a  more  concrete  nature  than  that  of  the 
Germans,  appealed  to  the  New  England  mind.  Carlyle  also,  in  his  earliest 
period,  was  an  exponent  of  Kant's  philosophy,  and  Emerson's  introduc- 
tion secured  him  readers  in  this  country.  Wordsworth's  poetry  was  per- 
haps the  most  truly  literary  in  its  eflect.  His  "Intimations  of  Immortality" 
wras  widely  read,  and  Emerson's  articles  in  the  Dial  in  October,  1840, 
"Thoughts  on  Modern  Literature"  and  "Europe  and  European  Books," 
in  April,  1843,  called  attention  to  Wordsworth's  doctrine  of  the  faith 
that  is  higher  than  reason.  "That  which  rose  in  him  so  high  as  to  the  lips," 
said  Emerson  in  the  latter  article,  "rose  in  many  others  as  high  as  to  the 
heart." 

Transcendentalism  can  hardly  be  said  to  have  been  organized  since 
individualism  was  one  of  its  cardinal  principles.  The  usual  date  for  its 
formal  inception  is  September  19,  1836,  when  there  was  a  meeting  at  the 
home  of  George  Ripley  in  Boston,  at  which  Emerson,  Bronson  Alcott, 
Frederick  H.  Hedge,  James  Freeman  Clarke,  Orestes  A.  Brownson,  and 
Convers  Francis  were  present/"  Others  joined  later,  among  them  Thoreau, 
Margaret  Fuller,  Theodore  Parker,  C.  A.  Bartol,  W.  H.  Channing,  J.  S. 
Dwight  and  Elizabeth  Peabody.  Members  came  at  will,  and  there  were 
few  rules.  Emerson  records  that  "the  rule  suggested  for  the  Club  was 
this,  that  no  man  should  be  admitted  whose  presence  excluded  any  one 
topic."  4 

Emerson  was  among  the  most  faithful  of  the  members,  and  mentions 
the  club  frequently  in  his  Journals.  The  club  met  with  him  on  September 
1,  1837,  and  with  Clarke  on  September  6.  Emerson  speaks  of  it  as  the 
"Aesthetic  Club"  5  and  Alcott  as  the  "Symposium."  Apparently  the  term 
"Transcendental  Club"  was  not  used  by  the  members  at  this  time.  Alcott 

'■'■  This  is  the  list  given  by  Emerson  in  his  Journal,  Sept.  20,  1836.  Other  accounts 
differ,  see  G.  W.  Cooke,  Intro,  to  the  Dial,  pp.  50-52,  quoting  Alcott,  but  Emerson 
could  hardly  have  been  mistaken  on  the  day  after  the  meeting. 

1  Journals,  ed.  E.  W.  Emerson  and  VV.  E.  Forbes  (1909-14),  Vol.  4,  pp.  85-87. 
References  are  to  this  edition. 

•">  Journals,  Vol.  4,  p.  292. 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM  265 

remarked:  "I  believe  there  was  seldom  an  inclination  to  be  silent."  Panthe- 
ism, mysticism,  and  kindred  topics  were  discussed. 

The  one  practical  result  of  these  discussions  was  the  "Brook  Farm 
Institute  of  Agriculture  and  Education,"  a  social  experiment  based  on 
their  principle  of  the  regeneration  of  man  by  improving  the  individual. 
A  tract  of  land  in  West  Roxbury  was  purchased;  possession  was  taken  in 
April,  1 841;  and  a  building  was  erected.  All  shared  in  the  household  and 
farm  tasks,  but  for  their  main  support  they  depended  on  teaching.  At  the 
end  of  the  second  year  there  were  thirty  pupils  out  of  a  total  of  seventy 
living  at  the  Farm.  The  number  never  exceeded  one  hundred  and  fifty. 
It  was  organized  as  a  stock  company,6  George  Ripley  being  the  first 
president  and  Hawthorne  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  Finance. 
Some  of  the  foremost  Transcendentalists,  like  Emerson  and  Margaret 
Fuller,  remained  outside  this  movement.  Emerson's  objections  to  it  were 
given  to  George  Ripley  in  a  letter  of  December  15,  1840.7  He  thought 
that  no  one  should  transfer  to  a  community  "the  task  of  his  emancipa- 
tion." In  his  review  of  the  movement  in  1883  8  he  treats  it  with  humorous 
sympathy:  "It  was  a  perpetual  picnic,  a  French  Revolution  in  small,  an 
age  of  Reason  in  a  patty  pan." 

The  community  gradually  assumed  a  more  definitely  socialistic  aspect, 
under  the  influence  of  foreign  theories,  especially  those  of  Fourier.  It 
lasted  until  August,  1847,  but  after  the  burning  of  the  "phalanstery"  or 
main  building  in  March,  1846,  it  rapidly  declined,  as  did  practically  all 
communities  in  the  United  States  of  a  similar  nature. 

Transcendentalism,  being  a  doctrine  that  taught  the  supremacy  of  in- 
dividuals, a  community  was  itself  a  contradiction,  though  the  inevitable 
tendency  was  to  lead  to  such  a  community.  It  was  a  similar  impulse 
which  had  led  the  earlier  Calvinistic  elect  to  join  themselves  into  Churches 
to  strengthen  their  individual  certainty  of  election  by  mutual  concession 
of  it. 

The  most  important  result  of  the  club  discussions  was  the  Dial.  Emerson 
had  urged  Carlyle  in  1835  to  come  to  the  United  States  to  edit  such  a 
journal,  and  the  career  of  the  Western  Messenger  in  Cincinnati  and 
Louisville,  Kentucky,  from  1835  to  1841,  edited  by  James  Freeman 
Clarke  and  others,  undoubtedly  stimulated  the  Eastern  group  of  liberals. 
Some  of  Emerson's  early  poems,  like  "Each  and  All"  and  "The  Rhodora," 
were  published  first,  in  1839  in  the  Messenger,  and  Parker,  Margaret 
Fuller,  and  C.  P.  Cranch  contributed  to  it.  One  of  its  functions  was  the 
introduction   of  translations  from   German   literature,   notably   Goethe, 

6  For  the  Articles  of  Association,  see  O.  B.  Frothingham,  George  Ripley  (1882), 
p.  112,  and  for  the  Constitution,  his  Transcendentalism  in  New  England,  p.  159. 

'  Letters,  ed.  by  R.  L.  Rusk  (1939),  Vol.  2,  pp.  368-371. 

8  "Historic  Notes  of  Life  and  Letters  in  Massachusetts,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  52 
(Oct.  1883),  pp.  529-543. 


266  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Schiller,  Richter  and  Herder.  In  this  as  in  other  ways  it  anticipated  the 
Dial.9 

Alcott  suggested  the  name  of  the  Dial  at  a  meeting  of  the  Club  in 
December,  1839.  Margaret  Fuller  became  its  first  editor,  and  the  first 
number  was  issued  in  July,  1 840.  It  was  published  quarterly  and  depended 
upon  its  subscriptions,  which  never  exceeded  three  hundred.  Emerson 
contributed  frequently.  Among  his  poems  were  "The  Problem,"  "The 
Sphinx,"  "Woodnotes,"  and  "The  Ode  to  Beauty";  and  thirteen  of  his 
essays  appeared  in  the  Dial.10  In  March,  1842,  Margaret  Fuller  gave  up  the 
editorship  and,  with  great  reluctance,  Emerson  assumed  it.  The  paper 
did  not  pay  the  editor,  much  less  the  contributors.  Aiargaret  Fuller  was 
a  capable  editor  and  published  some  of  her  own  best  papers  in  it.  Emerson 
gallantly  carried  on,  to  his  own  financial  loss,  until  April,  1844,  when  the 
journal  expired.  But  it  had  stimulated  and  provided  a  medium  for  a  sig- 
nificant group  of  writers.  It  was  an  essentially  young  man's  paper,  all  of 
the  contributors  being  under  forty  when  the  first  number  was  issued. 

Several  other  journals  contributed  to  the  spread  of  Transcendental 
ideas.  The  Boston  Quarterly  was  edited  by  Orestes  Brownson  (1803-70) 
from  1838  to  1842,  when  it  was  merged  with  the  Democratic  Review. 
He  was  one  of  the  earliest  critics  to  welcome  the  influence  of  French 
and  German  literature  as  a  means  of  freeing  American  writers  from  too 
close  a  dependence  upon  British  authors.  Ripley,  Alcott,  Parker,  Eliza- 
beth Peabody,  Albert  Brisbane  contributed  to  the  Quarterly  but  much  of 
it  was  Brownson's  own  work.  His  article  on  "The  Laboring  Classes"  in 
July,  1 840,  is  a  landmark  in  the  discussion  of  social  and  economic  reform. 
Like  Emerson,  Brownson  passed  through  a  Transcendental  phase  but 
emerged  into  quite  a  different  philosophical  and  religious  position.  As 
W.  H.  Channing  well  said:  "He  had  the  consistency  of  progress,"  and 
his  part  in  the  social  and  political  reforms  is  now  being  more  generally 
recognized.  He  passed  from  Presbvterianism  into  the  ministry  of  the 
Universalist  and  then  the  Unitarian  Churches  and  finally  in  1844  became 
a  Roman  Catholic.  When  Andrews  Norton  attacked  the  Transcendenta- 
lists,  in  consequence  of  Emerson's  Divinity  School  Address,  Brownson 
defended  the  movement  in  the  Boston  Quarterly  for  July,  1840,  and 
again  in  July,  1841,  and  also  supported  Parker's  position  in  his  "Dis- 
course on  the  Transient  and  Permanent  in  Christianity"  in  October,  1841. 
Brownson  devoted  many  pages  to  the  discussion  of  Emerson's  writings. 
He  showed  his  ability  as  a  critic  to  a  high  degree  in  his  review  of  Emer- 
son's Essays  in  July,  1841.11  Many  of  his  interpretations  of  Emerson's 
position  as  a  seer  and  as  a  Transcendentalist  have  anticipated  present  day 

9  See  Gohdes,  The  Periodicals  of  A?nerican  Transcendentalism,  pp.  16-37. 

"'See  the  "Papers  from  the  Dial"  in  the  Centenary  Edition  of  Emerson,  Vol.  12, 
and  there  are  essays  in  Vols.  1,  7,  and  8,  sometimes  with  altered  titles.  For  complete 
list  of  Contributions  to  the  Dial,  sec  Cooke's  Bibliography,  pp.  69-73. 

11  Boston  Quart.  Review,  Vol.  4  (July,  1841),  pp.  291-308. 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM  267 

criticisms  by  almost  a  century,  and  the  essay  is  quite  as  important  in  the 
estimate  of  Emerson's  reception  in  1841  as  in  the  study  of  Brownson's 
writings.  Beginning  with  an  acknowledgement  of  the  difficulty  of  recog- 
nizing the  unity  and  coherence  of  the  Essays,  he  says: 

To  most  persons,  who  read  these  Essays,  they  will  seem  to  be  wanting  in 
unity  and  coherence.  They  will  always  strike  [us]  as  beautiful,  often  as  just, 
and  sometimes  as  profound;  but  the  reader  will  be  puzzled  to  round  their 
teachings  into  a  whole,  or  to  discover  their  practical  bearing  on  life  or  thought. 
Yet  they  have  unity  and  coherence,  but  of  the  transcendental  sort.  The  author 
seems  to  us  to  have  taken,  as  far  as  possible,  his  stand  in  the  Eternal,  above 
time  and  space,  and  tried  to  present  things  as  they  appear  from  that  point 
of  vision— not  in  the  relation  to  each  other  as  seen  in  the  world  of  the  senses, 
but  in  their  relation  to  the  spectator,  who  views  them  from  above  the  world 
of  the  senses. 

This  fact  should  be  borne  in  mind.  Mr.  Emerson,  to  speak  scientifically,  is 
no  philosopher.  He  is  a  philosopher  neither  in  the  order  of  his  mind,  nor  in 
his  method  of  investigation.  He  explains  nothing,  accounts  for  nothing,  solves 
no  intellectual  problem,  and  affords  no  practical  instruction.  He  proposes 
nothing  of  all  this,  and,  therefore,  is  not  to  be  censured  for  not  doing  it.  He 
is  to  be  regarded  as  a  Seer,  who  rises  into  the  regions  of  the  Transcendental, 
and  reports  what  he  sees,  and  in  the  order  in  which  he  sees  it.  His  worth  can 
be  determined,  that  is,  the  accuracy  of  his  reports  can  be  properly  judged  of, 
by  none  except  those  who  rise  to  the  same  regions,  and  behold  the  universe 
from  the  same  point  of  view. 

Writers  like  Mr.  Emerson  are  seldom  to  be  consulted  for  clear,  logical, 
systematic  expositions  of  any  subject  or  doctrine,  never  for  the  purpose  of 
taking  them  as  teachers  or  guides  in  the  formation  of  opinions;  but  for  the 
suggestions,  the  incentives  to  thought  they  furnish,  and  the  life  they  kindle 
up  within  us.  They  are  thought  by  some  to  be  writers  without  any  practical 
value  for  mankind;  but  they  have,  in  fact,  a  very  high  practical  value;  only 
not  of  the  every  day  sort,  only  not  that  of  dogmatic  teachers  or  scientific 
expositors.  They  present  new  aspects  of  things,  or  at  least  old  familiar  objects 
in  new  dresses,  the  various  subjects  of  thought  and  inquiry  in  new  relations, 
break  up  old  associations,  and  excite  to  greater  and  fresher  mental  activity.12 

He  recognized  Emerson's  proper  category,  that  he  belonged  to  the 
writers  "whose  influence  is  not  sudden,  noisy,  obvious  to  all  senses,  but 
slow,  silent,  subtle,  permanent,  entering  into  and  becoming  an  integrant 
part  of  the  life  of  the  age,  sometimes  of  the  ages.-They  appear  always 
for  good  or  evil,  and  their  appearance  usually  marks  an  epoch." 

Brownson  recognized  Emerson's  Essays  as  a  revolt  against  materialism, 
the  ushering  in  of  a  broader  spiritualism-to  which  he  gave  adherence. 
But  he  could  also  criticize  Emerson's  dependence  upon  the  Reason,  which 
led  him  into  an  identification  of  God  and  the  universe,  an  ideal  form  of 
Pantheism.  With  a  keenness  of  critical  insight,  he  remarked: 

12  Boston  Quart.  Review,  Vol.  4  (July,  1841),  pp.  292-293. 


268  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

We  cannot  read  a  page  of  these  Essays  without  perceiving  that  the  tendency 
of  his  mind  is  to  seek  unity  and  identity.  He  brings  together  in  the  same 
sentence  perpetually  persons  and  things,  events  and  transactions,  apparently 
the  most  diverse,  by  a  law  of  association  which  most  readers  are  unable  to 
discover,  and  the  point  of  resemblance  between  which  few  are  able  to  perceive. 

Brownson  believed  that  the  identity  is  there— but  he  also  recognized 
that  the  real  world  was  left  too  much  out  of  Emerson's  point  of  view. 
Of  course,  there  was  a  modification  of  Emerson's  position  in  his  later 
work,  but  Brownson's  ability  to  understand  iii  1841  his  fundamental 
philosophy  while  recognizing  its  lack  of  a  complete  system,  is  note- 
worthy. 

His  writings  that  bear  a  transcendental  flavor  are  couched  in  a  sinewy  and 
often  distinguished  style.  His  analysis  of  Faith  begins  with  "Heaven  opens  to 
us,  and  we  behold  the  hidden  things  of  God  . . ."  then  describes  the  mystic 
qualitv,  "under  one  of  its  aspects  called  love,  under  another  sympathy,  under 
another  imagination,  under  still  another  faith;  but  what  it  is  in  itself  I  know 
not.  Be  it,  however,  what  it  will,  it  is  daemonic,  supernatural. . . ."  "We  avail 
ourselves  of  it,  not  because  it  is  ours,  but  by  placing  ourselves  in  harmony 
with  it,  or  so  that  it  flows  as  a  mighty  current  through  us."  13 

Brownson  saw  the  two  alternatives,  to  open  one's  soul  through  broaden- 
ing its  interests  until  it  becomes  attuned  to  the  universe  or  to  depend 
upon  the  individual  intuition  which  will  invite  the  universe  to  enter 
one's  soul  and  partake  of  its  limitations.  His  knowledge  of  history  and 
his  democratic  instincts  made  him  take  the  first  alternative  and  he  passed 
out  of  Transcendentalism  into  a  larger  field,  of  social  and  political  re- 
form, of  which  probably  his  best  book,  The  American  Republic  (1867), 
is  an  example. 

The  Harbinger,  a  weekly  paper,  edited  by  George  Ripley  (1802-80) 
from  1845  to  1847  and  by  Parke  Godwin  from  1847  t0  ^49,  was  even 
more  officially  an  expression  of  the  Transcendentalist  position,14  but  its 
contributors  were  not  limited  to  that  group.  Curtis,  Lowell,  Greeley, 
Higginson,  W.  W.  Story,  Henry  James  Senior,  both  the  younger  Chan- 
nings,  and  Albert  Brisbane  were  among  them.  At  first  a  vigorous  paper, 
it  was  injured  by  the  controversy  over  Swedenborgianism  and  the  ideas 
of  Fourier.  Many  of  its  pages  were  taken  up  by  a  translation  of  George 
Sand's  Consnelo. 

George  Ripley  represented  the  movement  on  its  journalistic  side,  with 
a  scholarly  flavor.  He  was  one  of  the  first  to  learn  German  and  he  be- 

1  ;  "Conversations  with  a  Radical,"  Boston  Quart.  Review,  Vol.  4,  (April,  1841), 
pp.  174-175. 

14  The  issue  of  Saturday,  July  19,  1845,  was  announced  as  "Published  by  the  Brook 
Farm  Phalanx,"  and  this  caption  was  kept  while  Ripley  remained  editor.  With  the 
exception  of  the  seventh  volume  there  is  an  index  of  contributors,  found  most 
conveniently  in  Gohdes,  Periodicals  of  American  Transcendentalism. 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM  269 

came  one  of  the  media  through  which  German  and  French  philosophical 
thought  found  its  way  into  New  England.  He  was  a  Unitarian  clergy- 
man for  fourteen  years,  until  he  left  his  charge  to  become  the  head  of 
Brook  Farm.  After  he  resigned  the  editorship  of  the  Harbinger  and  the 
Brook  Farm  episode  closed,  he  became  the  literary  editor  of  the  New 
York  Tribune.  It  was  not  so  much  in  any  individual  work  as  in  the  impetus 
he  gave  to  the  movement  in  a  practical  way  that  he  belongs  to  the  history 
of  Transcendentalism. 

Theodore  Parker  edited  the  Massachusetts  Quarterly  Review  from  De- 
cember, 1847,  to  September,  1850.  Emerson  wrote  the  "Introductory 
Address"  but  he  took  no  active  editorial  share,  although  he  contributed. 
The  journal  was  not  limited  to  Transcendentalism,  but  had  a  distinguished 
list  of  contributors  on  science  and  history  and  was  an  active  foe  to 
slavery.  One  of  the  interesting  items  among  Parker's  notes  for  the  new 
journal  was  his  list  of  the  proposed  writers  for  it: 

A.  Certain  and  valuable.  Emerson,  Weiss,  Cabot,  W.  H.  Channing,  Howe. 

B.  Valuable  but  not  certain.  Giddings,  Palfrey,  S.  C.  Philips,  Ripley, 
Hawthorne,  J.  P.  Hale. 

C.  Certain  but  not  valuable.  Wm.  Ellery  Channing,  Thoreau,  the  two 
Downs,  (sic)  et  id  genus  o?nne,  Margaret.15 

It  was  in  his  essay  on  "Education  of  the  People"  that  Parker  defined 
democracy  as  "the  government  of  all  the  citizens,  for  the  sake  of  all  the 
citizens,  and  by  means  of  them  all."  16  Parker's  eloquent  eulogies  of  the 
elder  Channing  and  of  John  Quincy  Adams,  delivered  March  5,  1848, 
together  with  his  articles  on  politics,  the  Mexican  War,  and  kindred 
topics  make  up  a  considerable  share  of  the  magazine.  But  there  were 
other  articles  like  those  on  "Hindoo  Literature"  by  J.  Eliot  Cabot,  and  a 
discussion  of  the  legal  aspects  of  slavery  by  Richard  Hildreth  running 
through  three  numbers,  which  represent  a  high  level  of  magazine  writing, 
even  if  they  are  at  times  a  bit  heavy  and  not  generally  of  permanent 
literary  quality. 

Parker's  style  is  energetic  and  his  epigrams  are  at  times  striking.  Like 
all  such  vigorous  reformers,  he  is  often  destructive  in  his  criticism,  and 
he  spends  too  much  time  in  discussing  Channing's  deficiencies  before  he 
comes  to  his  real  subject.  Hawthorne's  picture  of  him  in  the  Blithe  dale 
Romance  is  not  unfair.  Parker  contributed  to  ten  of  the  sixteen  numbers 
of  the  Dial,  mostly  on  theological  subjects,  but  his  essay  on  German 
literature  in  January,  1841,  is  one  of  the  best  of  the  scholarly  articles.17 
To  his  own  magazine  he  contributed  his  essay  on  Emerson,  in  March 

15  Gohdes,  p.  165,  quoting  from  Parker  MSS  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc. 

16  Mass.  Quart.  Review,  Vol.  1   (March,  1848),  p.  201. 

17  Reprinted  in  Vol.  8  of  the  Centenary  Edition  of  Parker's  Works  (1907-13), 
which  contains  the  best  of  his  critical  articles. 


27o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

1850.  It  is  rather  personal  than  critical,  once  in  awhile  penetrating,  but 
often  repetitious. 

Inasmuch  as  Transcendentalism  had  as  its  cardinal  principle  the  suprem- 
acy of  the  individual,  its  various  units  did  not  always  agree.  It  will  be 
best  to  continue  with  a  discussion  of  the  most  representative  individuals; 
Emerson,  of  course,  demands  special  treatment. 

Henry  David  Thoreau  18  belonged  specifically  to  no  movement,  be- 
cause his  creed  of  individuality  did  not  permit  it,  but  his  association  with 
the  Transcendentalists  was  more  definite  than  with  any  other  group.  In 
fact  his  life  seems  to  have  been  made  up  of  negations.  He  was  born  in 
Concord,  July  12,  1817,  of  French  descent  on  his  father's  side  and 
Scottish,  on  his  mother's.  He  graduated  from  Harvard  College  in  1837, 
but  adopted  no  profession,  preferring  to  remain  free  to  follow  his  own 
instincts.  He  helped  in  the  family  business  of  manufacturing  lead  pencils 
and  practised  surveying  at  times,  but  preferred,  he  said  to  become  rich 
by  reducing  his  necessities.  He  never  married  and  he  carried  his  separa- 
tion from  the  usual  social  relations  until  it  became  somewhat  of  a  pose. 
His  closest  association  was  with  the  Emerson  family  and,  while  Emerson 
paid  him  a  glowing  tribute  after  his  death,19  the  private  opinions  of  the 
more  practical  idealist  as  expressed  in  his  Journals  reveal  his  disappoint- 
ment at  his  younger  friend's  self-absorption  and  his  lack  of  ambition: 

Perhaps  he  has  found  it  foolish  and  wasteful  to  spend  a  tenth  or  a  twentieth  of 
his  active  life  with  a  muskrat  and  fried  fishes— I  tell  him  a  man  was  not  made 
to  live  in  a  swamp,  but  a  frog.  If  God  meant  him  to  live  in  a  swamp,  he  would 
have  made  him  a  frog.20 

If  I  knew  only  Thoreau,  I  should  think  cooperation  of  good  men  impossible 
— Centrality  he  has,— and  the  higher  gifts— but  all  this  and  all  his  resources  of 
wit  and  invention  are  lost  to  me,  in  every  experiment  year  after  year,  that  1 
make  to  hold  intercourse  with  his  mind.  Always  some  weary  captious  paradox 
to  fight  you  with,  and  the  time  and  temper  wasted.21 

Thoreau's  purpose  was  to  write  but  he  found  difficulty  in  winning  his 
public.  He  had  to  publish  his  Week  on  the  Concord  and  Merrimac  Rivers 
himself  in  1849  and  had  706  copies  returned  by  the  publishers,  as  he  noted 
with  grim  humor  in  his  journal  for  1853.  The  only  other  book  published 

1  s  His  name  was  at  first  David  Henry. 

19  The  MS  of  this  sketch,  now  in  the  Huntington  Library,  reveals  some  interesting 
changes  and  omissions  from  its  printed  form  in  Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches: 
"sans  culotte  in  literature"  becomes  "iconoclast";  "How  near  to  the  old  monks  in 
their  ascetic  religion"  is  omitted  (MS  p.  23:  after  "He  chose  wisely ...  nature," 
Works,  Cent.  Ed.,  p.  454.);  also  the  following:  "When  a  man  for  whom  he  once 
had  a  great  regard,  but  who  had  become  intemperate,  came  to  see  him  on  some 
business,  Thoreau  perceived  that  he  had  been  drinking,  and  declined  to  deal  with 
him,  but  advised  him  to  go  home  and  cut  his  throat  and  that  speedily"  (MS  p.  54; 
came  after  first  paragraph  on  page  459,  Works,  Cent.  Ed.). 

20  journals,  Vol.  9  (1H58),  p.  153. 

21  Journals,  Vol.  9  (1856),  pp.  15-16. 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM  271 

in  his  life  time  was  Walden  (1854).  So  much  has  been  written  about  this 
sojourn  in  the  woods  that  it  is  necessary  to  remember  that  he  went  there 
July  4,  1845,  and  left  September  6,  1847.  During  this  period  he  lived  in 
a  hut,  returning  constantly  to  Concord.  He  really  used  the  place  as  a 
workshop,  preparing  the  Week  for  publication.  This  hermitage  was  sug- 
gested by  Ellery  Channing  the  younger,  who  had  lived  in  a  log  hut  at 
Woodstock  in  Northern  Illinois  in  1839.  Thoreau  had  spent  some  weeks 
also  in  a  hut  with  Charles  Wheeler  and  George  William  Curtis,  so  that 
the  originality  of  the  episode  has  been  magnified,  rather  by  his  admirers 
than  by  Thoreau  himself. 

Thoreau's  main  outlet  was  in  the  Dial;  to  the  first  number  he  contributed 
one  of  his  best  poems,  "Sympathy."  During  the  editorship  of  Margaret 
Fuller  his  contributions  were  not  infrequently  rejected,  with  some  good 
advice,  including:  "He  [Thoreau]  says  too  constantly  of  Nature,  she  is 
mine."  22  When  Emerson  became  editor,  Thoreau  published  twenty-four 
poems,  prose  articles,  and  miscellaneous  contributions,  and  acted  as  as- 
sistant to  the  editor.23 

At  Thoreau's  death  in  1862  selections  from  his  notebooks  were  pub- 
lished under  the  titles  Excursions  (1863),  The  Maine  Woods  (1864), 
Cape  Cod  (1865),  A  Yankee  in  Canada,  ivith  Anti-slavery  Papers  (1866), 
Early  Spring  in  Massachusetts  (1881),  Summer  (1884),  Winter  (1887), 
Autumn  (1892).24 

Thoreau  is  most  important  as  a  lover  of  Nature.  There  can  be  no  ques- 
tion of  his  sincere  love  for  Nature,  and  of  his  close  and  sympathetic 
observance  of  her.  Such  an  essay  as  that  on  "Wild  Apples"  in  the  Ex- 
cursions  shows  him  at  his  best.  Here  there  is  the  very  spirit  of  the  autumn 
out-of-doors;  one  can  picture  the  scene  vividly  and  there  is  none  of  the 
forced  rhapsody  that  makes  so  many  descriptions  of  Nature  so  tiresome. 
A  good  example  of  another  approach  to  Nature  is  found  in  a  description 
of  a  sunrise  above  the  clouds,  in  the  Week. 

Thoreau's  attitude  toward  Nature  was  that  of  an  awestruck  admirer, 
one  who  considered  Nature  more  perfect  than  man,  and  in  fact -one  who 
thought  of  man's  presence  as  somewhat  of  an  impertinence  on  this  globe. 
He  had  an  idea  that  to  see  Nature  in  her  purest  form  one  had  to  go  to 
a  bleak  spot,  where  man  had  never  been,  such  as  the  "burnt  lands"  on 
Mt.  Ktaadn,  and  there  to  contemplate  "Matter,  vast,  terrific,  not  the 
Mother  Earth  we  have  heard  of,  not  for  man  to  be  buried  in,  but  the 
home  of  Necessity  or  Fate."  25  This  is  by  no  means  the  sanest  way  to 
approach  Nature.  By  the  persistent  minimizing  of  man  in  comparison  with 

22  For  the  entire  letter,  see  F.  B.  Sanborn,  Henry  D.  Thoreau  (1882),  pp.  169-172. 

23  For  detailed  account,  see  G.  W.  Cooke,  "Thoreau  as  Contributor  and  Assistant 
Editor,"  Introduction  to  the  Dial,  Vol.  1,  pp.  1 17-139. 

24  These  have  been  rearranged  in  the  Walden  Edition  (1906),  in  twenty  volumes, 
including  Vols.  7  to  20  from  the  Journals. 

25  The  Maine  Woods,  Riverside  Edition  (1894),  p.  71. 


2 72  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

inanimate  Nature,  Thoreau  had  arrived  at  a  false  estimate  of  their  rela- 
tions. Nature  is,  of  course,  of  greatest  service  when  it  is  used  as  a  means 
of  interpretation  of  man's  thoughts  and  feelings.  Thoreau's  view  of  Na- 
ture was  self-centered  as  were  his  views  of  all  other  things.  One  of  his 
friends,  A4rs.  Hoar,  remarked:  "Henry  talks  of  Nature  as  though  she 
had  been  born  and  brought  up  in  Concord." 

His  knowledge  of  Nature  had  indeed  the  limitations  which  he  him- 
self set  for  it.  He  tried  to  learn  everything  at  first  hand  and  consequently 
spent  a  good  deal  of  time  in  going  over  the  ground  which  the  works  of 
others  might  have  taught  him.  He  studied  birds,  too,  for  a  dozen  years 
without  a  glass,  because  he  had  a  theory  that  it  was  best  not  to  buy 
things  until  long  after  you  needed  them!  Bradford  Torrey,  one  of  his 
disciples,  in  his  essay  on  Thoreau  26  shows  how  uncertain  and  inexact 
his  knowledge  often  was;  how  he  asks  himself  questions  seriously  in  his 
notebook  about  the  habits  of  birds,  which  are  apparently  dawning  upon 
his  consciousness  for  the  first  time,  but  which  belong  to  the  commonest 
specimens  of  New  England.  His  knowledge  of  botany  was  better,  but, 
even  in  his  bird  studies  he  is  interesting  as  the  observer  at  first  hand  al- 
ways is,  if  he  has  a  keen  eye  and  sympathetic  mind.  His  study  of  insects 
was  also  minute,  and  one  of  his  best  passages  is  the  description  of  the  ant 
fight  in  Walden. 

His  scientific  contributions  were  intermittent,  because  they  depended 
on  his  special  interest.  Attention  has  recently  been  drawn  to  his  work 
in  limnology  and  he  may  indeed  have  been  the  first  limnologist  in  this 
country.  His  measurements  of  Walden  Pond,  especially  of  the  depth,  by 
drawing  lines  of  greatest  length  and  breadth  and  finding  that  the  deepest 
point  was  directly  beneath  their  coincidence,  is  an  example  of  an  empiric 
method  usually  at  variance  with  his  intuitive  principles.  His  address  on 
"The  Succession  of  Forest  Trees,"  at  the  Middlesex  Agricultural  Society, 
at  Concord,  in  i860,  in  which  he  showed  the  relation  of  the  growth  of 
pine  and  oak  in  the  same  spot,  was  the  result  of  careful  investigation  and 
stood  unchallenged  for  sixty  years.27 

Thoreau  was  not  always  consistent  in  his  comparison  of  Nature  and 
Man.  He  says  in  his  journal  of  November  2,  1853:  "What  is  Nature  unless 
there  is  an  eventful  human  life  passing  within  her?  Many  joys  and  many 
sorrows  are  the  lights  and  shadows  in  which  she  shows  most  beautiful." 
And  in  his  journals  of  August  23,  185 1,  at  times  he  recognizes  the  limita- 
tions of  those  who  neglect  humanity:  "It  is  narrow  to  be  confined  to 
woods  and  fields  and  grand  aspects  of  Nature  only.  The  greatest  and 
wisest  will  still  be  related  to  men." 

As  a  prose  writer,  viewed  from  the  point  of  view  of  style,  he  is  not  a 

26  "Thoreau  as  a  Diarist,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  19  (Jan.  1905),  pp.  5-18. 

27  Edward  S.  Dccvcy,  Jr.,  "A  Re-examination  of  Thoreau's  Walden,"  Quart.  Review 
of  Biology,  Vol.  17  (March,  1942),  p.  8. 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM  273 

great  artist.  There  is  no  place  where  he  has  sustained  for  any  length  a  high 
plane  of  feeling  or  of  intellectual  stimulus.  He  must  he  read  for  the 
patches.  The  epigrams  are  good,  and  single  passages,  such  as  his  analysis 
of  friendship,  in  the  Week,  may  be  found  where  the  thought  and  ex- 
pression reach  a  dignity  and  grace  that  are  peculiarly  his  own.  Any  lover 
of  the  well-chosen  word  can  rejoice  in  the  remark:  "Sometimes  we  are 
inclined  to  class  those  who  are  once-and-a-half  wittcd  with  the  half 
witted,  because  we  appreciate  only  a  third  part  of  their  wit.  Some  would 
find  fault  with  the  morning  red  if  they  ever  got  up  early  enough."  And 
then  he  meets  another  sentence:  "Society  is  always  diseased,  and  the  best 
is  the  most  so."  2S  or  "I  have  lived  some  thirty  years  on  this  planet,  and 
I  have  vet  to  hear  the  first  syllable  of  valuable  or  even  earnest  advice 
from  my  seniors"  29  which  are  merely  banal. 

It  is  a  question  whether  Thoreau's  reputation  has  been  increased  by 
the  publication  of  fourteen  volumes  of  his  journals,  many  passages  from 
which  appeared  in  better  form  in  his  published  volumes.  It  is  also  doubt- 
ful whether  Thoreau  has  been  well  served  by  the  publication  of  a  com- 
plete edition  of  his  collected  poems.  Many  of  these  he  must  have  had  no 
intention  of  printing  for  they  are  simply  fragments.  The  best  are  "Inspira- 
tion," "Smoke,"  "Sympathy"  and  "Sic  Vita,"  a  revelation  of  his  own 
nature  which  was  read  at  his  funeral  by  Bronson  Alcott. 

Thoreau  will  probably  remain  one  of  those  figures  in  our  literature 
that  represent  an  acquired  taste,  and  a  reputation  based  largely  upon  one 
book,  Walden.  If  his  countrymen  would  not  read  him  in  his  lifetime,  he 
has  grown  steadily  in  interest  as  a  personality  of  an  unusual  kind.  His 
most  admirable  trait,  his  courage,  will  be  discussed  in  connection  with 
his  antislavery  activities.  But  Lowell  said  the  right  word  in  his  critical 
essay:  "Thoreau  had  none  of  the  artistic  mastery  which  controls  a  great 
work  to  the  serene  balance  of  completeness." 

Amos  Bronson  Alcott  (1799-1888)  is  usually  credited  with  representing 
Transcendentalism  on  its  mystic  side.  He  was  also  a  vegetarian,  an  aboli- 
tionist, and  a  theorizer  and  pioneer  in  educational  methods.  He  was 
known  for  his  "Orphic  sayings"  which  he  related  to  groups  gathered  for 
the  purpose.  They  may  have  been  inspiring  when  they  were  delivered, 
but  when  printed  in  the  Dial  or  the  Boston  Quarterly  they  are  simply 
triteness  disguised  as  epigrams,  such  as  "The  poles  of  things  are  not  in- 
tegrated;" "Love  globes,  wisdom  orbs  all  things;"  "Love  is  the  genius  of 
spirit."  Alcott  did  not  join  Brook  Farm  but  started  a  scheme  of  his  own, 
"Fruitlands"  at  Harvard,  on  the  Nashua  River.  It  failed  and  Alcott  took 
to  his  bed,  to  be  rescued  by  his  wife  and  daughters,  one  of  whom,  Louisa, 
has  written  an  amusing  account  of  it.30 

28  Excursions  (1863),  p.  39. 

29  Walden,  Walden  Edition,  p.  10.  , 

30  "Transcendental    Wild    Oats,"    in    C.    E.    Sears,    Bronson    Alcott  s    Fruitlands 

(1876-1905). 


274  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

When  he  carried  his  theory  of  the  "lapse  of  Soul"  to  St.  Louis,  in  1859 
and  in  1866,  he  met  a  sturdier  philosophy  among  Brokmeyer,  W.  T. 
Harris  and  the  other  Hegelians.  Later,  when  he  presided  over  the  "Con- 
cord School  of  Philosophy"  (1879-87),  Harris  brought  some  of  the  West- 
ern group  East,  who  claimed  they  did  not  understand  Alcott.  He  replied, 
"Well  I  don't  know  as  I  know  what  I  mean  myself."  31 

Although  Margaret  Fuller  (1810-50),  the  first  editor  of  the  Dial,  was 
not  limited  in  her  activities  to  Transcendentalism,  she  represents  it  on  its 
emotional  side,  and  her  poetry  has  more  of  a  devotional  tone  than  the 
other  Transcendentalists.  In  a  letter  to  W.  H.  Channing  she  said:  "The 
manly  mind  might  love  best  in  the  triumphant  hour;  but  the  woman 
could  no  more  stay  from  the  foot  of  the  Cross  than  from  the  Trans- 
figuration." She  had  the  ability,  however,  to  see  the  limitations  of  those 
she  admired,  for  she  called  Emerson's  attention  in  a  letter  of  November 
12,  1843,  to  what  she  believed  to  be  his  narrow  policy  in  conducting  the 
Dial.  She  had  admitted  articles  of  which  she  did  not  altogether  approve 
because  she  felt  that  the  Dial  should  represent  all  phases  of  the  move- 
ment. Probably  her  best  work  in  criticism  was  found  in  the  pages  of  the 
Dial.  Her  paper  on  "Goethe,"  July,  1841,  represents  her  facility  at  phrase 
making  and  her  ability  to  draw  distinctions  and  compare  civilizations: 

The  fiercest  passions  are  not  so  dangerous  foes  to  the  soul  as  the  cold  scepticism 
of  the  understanding.  The  Jewish  demon  assailed  the  man  of  Uz  with  physical 
ills,  the  Lucifer  of  the  middle  ages  tempted  his  passions,  but  the  Mephistopheles 
of  the  1 8th  Century  bade  the  finite  strive  to  compass  the  infinite,  and  the 
intellect  attempt  to  solve  all  the  problems  of  the  soul. 

Yet  her  criticisms  of  contemporary  American  authors  were  often 
singularly  uneven.  She  appreciated  Brockden  Brown  and,  of  course, 
Emerson.  Her  estimate  of  Longfellow  was  too  low,  but  her  most  glaring 
errors  were  her  prophecy  that  Lowell  would  not  be  remembered  and 
her  entire  omission  of  Poe  from  a  survey  of  our  literature  in  1846. 

Among  the  minor  poets  who  contributed  verse  to  the  Transcendental 
journals  there  are  a  few  who  deserve  to  be  kept  alive,  if  only  in  the 
anthologies.  Christopher  P.  Cranch  (1815-92),  a  native  of  Alexandria, 
Virginia,  represented  the  pantheistic  element.  His  "Human  Helpers"  and 
"Gnosis,"  with  its  theme: 

We  are  columns  left  alone 
Of  a  temple  once  complete 

are  his  best.  William  Ellery  Channing,  2nd,  nephew  of  Dr.  Channing,  was 
a  poet  of  aspiration.  His  "Hymn  of  the  Earth"  and  "A  Poet's  Hope"  have 
lived  through  individual  lines  like  the  close  of  the  latter: 

If  my  bark  sink,  'tis  to  another  sea. 

31  H.  A.  Pochman,  New  England  Transcendentalism  and  St.  Louis  Hegelianism 
([1948]),  p.  52. 


IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM  275 

Jones  Very  (1813-80)  was  a  sonneteer  of  some  ability,  although  the 
abstract  and  often  obscure  nature  of  his  verse  has  limited  his  audience. 
"The  Dead,"  however,  is  still  worth  reading.  David  A.  Wasson  (1823-87) 
carried  the  idea  of  aspiration  to  the  degree  where  the  separation  of  our 
ideals  from  our  lives  is  praised  as  leading  to  future  efforts: 

Not  to  content  our  lowness,  but  to  lure 
And  lift  us  to  your  angelhood, 

Do  your  surprises  pure 

Dawn  far  and  sure 
Above  the  tumult  of  young  blood, 

And  starlike  there  endure. 

Transcendentalism  then  was  a  wave  of  thought  which  rose  from  the 
sea  of  New  England  life  and  after  a  time  spent  itself.  It  also  stimulated 
other  forms  of  idealistic  philosophy,  especially  in  the  West.  Like  all 
waves,  it  had  a  good  deal  of  froth,  but  it  left  upon  the  shores  of  our 
literature  some  treasures  that  later  waves  have  left  untouched. 


Chapter  17 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE 

Emerson  was  the  greatest  of  the  Transcendentalists,  but  the  movement 
was  only  one  phase  of  his  many-sided  life.  He  was  born  in  Boston,  May  25, 
1803,  the  second  son  of  William  Emerson,  a  clergyman  of  the  trans^ion 
to  Unitarianism,  and  Ruth  Haskins,  a  woman  of  the  fine  fibre  necessary 
to  face  the  care  of  five  sons,  one  of  them  mentally  deficient,  when  her 
husband  died  in  181 1.  She  was  aided  in  their  intellectual  training  by  their 
aunt,  Mary  Moody  Emerson,  a  woman  of  strong  if  at  times  disagreeable 
traits.  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  was  not  especially  distinguished  either  at 
the  Boston  Latin  School  or  at  Harvard  College,  where  he  graduated  in 
182 1.  He  was  not  elected  to  Phi  Beta  Kappa  and  his  Journals  show  that 
his  fellows  treated  him  as  one  of  themselves,  who  was  not  set  apart  in 
any  way,  by  his  own  nature,  or  by  any  unusual  attainment.  He  was  elected 
class  poet  only  after  seven  others  had  refused  the  office. 

Emerson  taught  school  for  a  time,  disliking  the  work,  but  falling  in 
with  the  family  discipline  by  which  each  of  the  boys  helped  those 
younger  than  he  to  go  to  college.  Ill  health  followed,  but  in  1829  he  was 
ordained  as  the  colleague  of  the  Reverend  Henry  Ware  in  the  Second 
Church  of  Boston.  He  married  Ellen  Louisa  Tucker  in  the  same  year,  and 
his  life  seemed  destined  for  happiness.  But  in  1832  Ellen  died  and  on 
September  9,  1832,  he  resigned  his  pastorate  because  he  felt  he  could  not 
administer  any  longer  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  This  action 
was  characteristic.  He  speaks  in  his  Journals  as  a  boy  about  his  "voca- 
tion"; later  it  became  his  "profession,"  and  he  was  too  sincere  to  observe 
what  to  him  was  only  a  form.  His  reason  for  objecting  to  the  Communion 
service  is  also  revealing:  "I  have  no  hostility  to  this  institution.  .  .  I  am 
only  stating  my  want  of  sympathy  with  it. .  .  That  is  the  end  of  my  op- 
position, that  I  am  not  interested  in  it."  It  was  as  though  a  physician 
declined  to  practice  medicine  any  longer  because  he  was  not  "interested" 
in  the  circulation  of  the  blood!  It  was  a  symbol  of  the  courage,  the  in- 
dependence and,  at  the  same  time,  the  limitations  of  Emerson.  The  central 

276 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  277 

fact  of  Christianity  with  its  tremendous  effect  on  the  history  of  civiliza- 
tion was  no  longer  of  significance  to  him. 

Threatened  with  tuberculosis,  he  sailed  for  A4alta,  December  25,  1832. 
In  Italy,  he  met  Landor,  and  in  England,  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge, 
and  he  began  his  long  friendship  with  Carlyle.  But  Emerson  remained 
singularly  unaffected  by  a  young  man's  first  impression  of  Europe. 
"Wherever  we  go,  whatever  we  do,  self  is  the  sole  subject  we  study  and 
learn,"  he  writes  in  his  Journal,  February  10,  1833.  Easter  in  Rome  was 
"a  sublime  spectacle,"  but  it  was  only  a  spectacle,  and  "travelling,"  he 
said  afterwards  in  "Self-Reliance,"  "is  a  fool's  paradise."  But  he  writes 
a  sincere  appreciation  of  Raphael's  "Transfiguration":  "The  sweet  and 
sublime  face  of  Jesus  above  is  beyond  all  praise."  a  He  was  glad  to  be  at 
home  in  October,  1833,  indicating  that  the  best  result  of  the  trip  was  his 
sight  of  the  four  British  writers,  but  he  adds,  "Not  one  of  these  is  a 
mind  of  the  very  first  class."  2 

xMaking  his  home  for  a  short  time  in  the  "Old  Manse"  at  Concord 
wh;ch  had  been  built  for  his  grandfather,  William  Emerson,  he  lectured 
on  a  variety  of  subjects  from  "Water"  to  "Michael  Angelo"  and  "Milton." 
By  September,  1835,  his  life  had  settled  into  its  pattern.  He  married 
Lvdia  Jackson  of  Plymouth  and  took  her  to  the  Concord  house,  "plain, 
square  and  wooden,"  in  which  they  lived  during  the  remainder  of  their 
lives.  It  was  restored  after  the  fire  of  1872  and  still  presents  an  air  of 
comfort  to  the  visitor.  Emerson  received  from  the  estate  of  Ellen  Tucker 
a  sum  which  brought  him  about  $1200  a  year.3  His  own  income  came 
from  lecturing.  In  1838  he  received  $568.00  for  a  series  of  ten  lectures. 
Rarely  did  his  annual  receipts  amount  to  more  than  $800.00  until  the 
later  sixties,  when  James  T.  Fields  became  his  agent.4  What  he  prized 
in  this  career  was  its  independence.  Yet  it  was  no  idyllic,  serene  existence, 
as  it  is  often  pictured.  His  two  brothers,  Edward  and  Charles,  to  whom  he 
was  devoted,  died  in  1834  and  1836.  His  oldest  son,  Waldo,  five  years 
old,  who  was  a  charming  and  unusual  child,  died  in  February,  1841. 
In  his  memory  Emerson  later  wrote  his  poem,  "Threnody."  To  those 
who  represent  Emerson  as  remote  from  the  usual  human  reactions  it  is 
comforting  to  remember  that   his   last  words,   years   afterwards,   were 

^Journals  (March  29,  1833),  ed.  E.  W.  Emerson  and  W.  E.  Forbes  (1909-10),  Vol. 
3,  pp.  78-79.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

2  Journals  (Sept.  1,  1833),  Vol.  3,  p.  185. 

3  This  varied  of  course.  In  1834  he  received  about  $11,600.00  of  the  capital,  and 
in  1837,  $11,674.49.  In  1843  he  "received  unexpectedly  $353"  from  the  estate  of  Ellen's 
brother.  See  Letters,  ed.  R.  L.  Rusk  (1939),  Vol.  1,  p.  413^  Vol.  2,  p.  87;  Vol.  3, 
p.  224.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

4  On  November  18,  1868,  in  a  letter  to  Fields  printed  in  Authors^  and  Friends  he 
speaks  of  receiving  $1300  from  a  series  of  lectures  given  under  Fields'  auspices.  Again 
on  January  15,  1869,  acknowledging  another  letter  for  the  Chickering  Hall  Lectures, 
he  puts  the  total  amount  at  $1655.75.  He  says  in  the  letter  of  November  19,  1868, 
that  $1500  which  he  had  then  received  for  the  series  was  "the  largest  sum  I  ever 
received  for  the  like  amount  of  work." 


278  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  syllables  of  his  little  son's  name.  He  assumed  a  large  share  of  the 
financial  responsibility  for  the  care  of  his  mentally  deficient  brother, 
Bulkeley,  who  continued  to  be  a  source  of  anxiety  until  his  death  in 
1859.  To  meet  these  and  the  expenses  of  a  growing  family,  Emerson 
extended  his  lecture  tours  to  New  York,  Philadelphia,  then  to  Cincinnati, 
Detroit,  Chicago,  and  St.  Louis,  going  as  far  as  St.  Paul,  in  1867,  and  to 
Baltimore  in  1871.  His  letters  to  Lidian  tell  of  narrow  escapes  from  fires, 
and  of  other  hardships,  which  he  met  with  cheerfulness  for  it  gave  him 
an  opportunity  to  meet  "the  young,  the  intellectual,  and  that  special 
parish  of  mine,  the  religious  infidel."  5 

In  his  delightful  essay  on  "Emerson,  the  Lecturer,"  Lowell  makes 
clear  why  he  was  the  "most  steadily  attractive  lecturer  in  America":  — 
"We  do  not  go  to  hear  what  Emerson  says  so  much  as  to  hear  Emerson.— 
Did  they  say  he  was  disconnected?  So  were  the  stars,  that  seemed  larger 
to  our  eyes,  still  keen  with  that  excitement,  as  we  walked  homeward 
with  prouder  stride  over  the  creaking  snow."  This  picture  is  probablv 
of  Emerson  in  1861  since  Lowell  speaks  of  a  lecture  on  "Poetry  and 
Criticism"  given  that  year,  which  has  not  been  published. 

Emerson's  books  did  not  sell  widely,  and  he  had  the  usual  difficulties 
with  the  publishers  of  that  day.  He  wrote  to  William  in  January, 
1862,  that  he  had  received  "not  a  penny  from  my  books  since  last 
June,  —  which  usually  yield  5,  or  $600.00  a  year."  In  this  period  of  the 
Civil  War  there  were  no  dividends  from  the  banks  or  fees  from  lectures. 
"But  far  better,"  he  continued,  "that  this  grinding  should  go  on  bad  & 
worse,  than  that  we  be  driven  by  any  impatience  into  a  hasty  peace, 
or  any  peace  restoring  the  old  rottenness."  6 

Emerson  passed  through  a  Transcendental  period,  in  his  life  and  work. 
As  early  as  1821  in  his  prize  essay  on  "The  Present  State  of  Ethical 
Philosophy"  he  said  that  the  moral  faculty  "is  an  intuition  by  which 
we  directly  determine  the  merit  or  demerit  of  action."  In  the  sermon 
preached  on  giving  up  the  ministry,  in  1832;  in  1836  when  he  published 
"Nature";  in  his  Divinity  School  Address  in  1838,  he  developed  his 
doctrines  of  idealism  and  intuition.  When  he  came  to  state  his  views 
publicly,  in  his  lecture  on  "The  Transcendentalist,"  he  was  able  to  realize 
that  the  so-called  new  ideas  were  "the  very  oldest  of  thoughts  cast  into 
the  mould  of  these  new  times  . . .  What  is  popularly  called  Transcen- 
dentalism among  us  is  Idealism;  Idealism  as  it  appears  in  1842."  ~  He 
could  criticize  his  fellow  Transcendentalists: 

But  their  solitary  and  fastidious  manners  not  only  withdraw  them  from  the 
conversation,  but  from  the  labors  of  the  world;  they  are  not  good  citizens, 

■">  Letter  to  Lidian,  January  25,  1843,  Letters,  ed.  Rusk,  Vol.  3,  p.  133.  Emerson  called 
his  wife,  "Lidian." 

fi  Letter  to  William,  Letters,  Vol.  5,  pp.  263-264. 

7  Works,  Centenary  Edition,  Vol.  1,  p.  330.  References  are  to  this  edition. 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  279 

not  good  members  of  society;  unwillingly  they  bear  their  part  of  the  public 
and  private  burdens;  they  do  not  willingly  share  in  the  public  charities,  in 
the  public  religious  rites,  in  the  enterprises  of  education,  of  missions  foreign 
and  domestic,  in  the  abolition  of  the  slave-trade,  or  in  the  temperance  society. 
They  do  not  even  like  to  vote/ 


Yet  at  the  close  he  pays  his  tribute  to  them: 


Amidst  the  downward  tendency  and  proneness  of  things, . . .  will  you  not 
tolerate  one  or  two  solitary  voices  in  the  land,  speaking  for  thoughts  and 
principles  not  marketable  or  perishable?  Soon  these  improvements  and 
mechanical  inventions  will  be  superseded;  these  modes  of  living  lost  out  of 
memory;  these  cities  rotted,  ruined  by  war,  by  new  inventions,  by  new  seats 
of  trade,  or  the  geologic  changes:— all  gone,  like  the  shells  which  sprinkle  the 
sea-beach  with  a  white  colony  to-day,  forever  renewed  to  be  forever  destroved. 
But  the  thoughts  which  these  few  hermits  strove  to  proclaim  by  silence  as  well 
as  bv  speech,  not  only  by  what  they  did,  but  bv  what  they  forbore  to  do, 
shall  abide  in  beauty  and  strength,  to  reorganize  themselves  in  nature,  to  invest 
themselves  anew  in  other,  perhaps  higher  endowed  and  happier  mixed  clav 
than  ours,  in  fuller  union  with  the  surrounding  system.9 

It  was  at  the  height  of  his  interest  in  Transcendentalism  that  his  first 
book,  Nature  (1836),  appeared.  It  had  been  begun  in  1834.  At  the  very 
outset  Emerson  states  that  he  will  use  the  word  both  in  its  common 
and  in  its  philosophical  import,  which  makes  a  generalization  sometimes 
difficult.  But  the  Puritan  dislike  of  the  symbol  shows  in  his  placing 
Nature  above  Art  in  its  importance.  When  in  communion  with  Nature, 
man  says  to  himself:  "I  become  a  transparent  eyeball;  I  am  nothing;  I 
see  all;  the  currents  of  the  Universal  Being  circulate  through  me;  I  am 
part  or  parcel  of  God."  The  most  significant  sections  of  Nature  are, 
first,  "Beauty,"  which  develops  the  necessity  of  a  spiritual  accompani- 
ment of  Nature,  for  Nature  in  its  highest  moments,  becomes  ancillary 
to  man.  Next,  the  section  on  "Language"  amplifies  this  thought.  "All 
the  facts  in  natural  history  taken  by  themselves,  have  no  value.  But 
marry  it  to  human  history  and  it  is  full  of  life."  In  section  six,  "Idealism," 
he  accepts  Nature  as  a  form  of  creation,  waiving  the  question  of  its 
independent  reality.  Then  he  proceeds  in  "Spirit,"  to  acknowledge  the 
limitations  of  the  ideal  theory: 

Three  problems  are  put  by  nature  to  the  mind:  What  is  matter?  Whence  is 
it?  and  Whereto?  The  first  of  these  questions  only,  the  ideal  theory  answers. 
Idealism  saith:  matter  is  a  phenomenon,  not  a  substance.  Idealism  acquaints  us 
with  the  total  disparity  between  the  evidence  of  our  own  being  and  the 
evidence  of  the  world's  being.  The  one  is  perfect;  the  other,  incapable  of  any 
assurance. . .  .10 

8  Works,  Vol.  1,  pp.  347-348. 

9  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  359. 

10  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  62. 


2  8o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Spirit,  according  to  Emerson,  creates  matter.  Nature  is  an  attempt  to 
reconcile  the  Idealistic  philosophy  with  Emerson's  practical  belief  in 
Nature's  existence.  So  nature  becomes  a  thought  of  God  passing  through 
the  mind  of  man.  It  is  progressive  but  since  Emerson  does  not  answer 
his  third  question,  "Whereto?",  he  leaves  the  discussion  unconclusive. 

This  central  thought  of  the  supremacy  of  the  Primal  A4ind  is  amplified 
through  many  of  Emerson's  essays  and  poems.  In  "The  Oversoul"  it  is 
restated:  "It  is  the  soul  of  the  whole;  the  wise  silence;  the  universal  beauty 
to  which  every  part  and  particle  is  equally  related;  the  Eternal  One." 
It  forms  the  basis  of  "Self-Reliance."  In  "Art"  he  attributes  to  the  one 
Supreme  Power  the  production  of  all  art  objects.  It  is  the  prose  expres- 
sion of  the  poem,  "The  Problem": 

The   passive  master  lent  his  hand 
To  the  vast  Soul  that  o'er  him  planned. 

It  is  fitting  that  these  lines  should  be  cut  into  Emerson's  tombstone. 
In  "The  World  Soul,"  he  said: 

Enough  for  thee  the  primal  mind 

That  flows  in  streams,  that  breathes  in  wind; 

Leave  all  thy  pedant  lore  apart, 

God  hid  the  whole  world  in  thy  heart. 

In  "Xenophanes"  and  "The  Poet"  the  central  theme  of  unity  appears, 
as  it  does  in  the  essays.  In  the  essay  on  "Love"  the  final  thought  is  that 
of  the  supremacy  of  the  one  Eternal  Love  which  transcends  all  finite 
loves.  In  The  Natural  History  of  Intellect,  lectures  delivered  at  Harvard 
in  1870  to  187 1,  it  became  the  attempted  basis  of  a  philosophy.  The 
relations  of  the  Primal  Mind  to  the  Individual  Mind  were  made  the 
theme  of  such  poems  as  "Each  and  All,"  "Goodbye,  Proud  World," 
and  most  effectively  in  "The  Rhodora:" 

Rhodora!—  if  the  sages  ask  thee  why 

This  charm  is  wasted  on  the  earth  and  sky, 

Tell  them,  dear,  that  if  eyes  were  made  for  seeing, 

Then  Beauty  is  its  own  excuse  for  being: 

Why  thou  wert  there,  O  rival  of  the  rose! 

I  never  thought  to  ask,  I  never  knew: 

But,  in  my  simple  ignorance,  suppose 

The  self-same  Power  that  brought  me  there  brought  you. 

It  seems  as  though  one  of  the  greatest  ethical  teachers  of  all  time  had 
said  to  himself:  "I  will  show  the  believers  in  'art  for  art's  sake'  that  I 
can  surpass  them  in  the  expression  of  their  creed  in  one  unsurpassable 
line." 

It  was  through  his  concern  with  the  relations  of  the  Supreme  Mind  and 
the  individual  that  he  became  interested  in  the  philosophy  of  the  Orient. 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  281 

He  began  to  refer  to  India  in  his  Journal  for  January,  1820,  but  without 
any  real  knowledge.  In  Nature  (1836),  there  is  a  similarity  in  the  expres- 
sion, "I  am  a  transparent  eyeball,"  to  ideas  contained  in  the  Hindu 
Vedanta.  By  1845,  when  he  wrote  to  John  Chapman  in  England  to 
procure  a  translation  of  the  Bhdgvat  Geeta,  from  the  Sanskrit,  made  by 
Charles  Wilkins  (1785),  he  had  become  definitely  interested  in  Hindu 
philosophy.  He  inherited  from  Thoreau  the  books  which  had  been  left 
by  an  Englishman,  Thomas  Cholmondeley.11 

As  usual  with  Emerson,  it  is  unwise  to  generalize  upon  the  direct 
influence  of  the  Orient.  He  turned  to  ideas  in  which  he  saw  kinship  with 
his  own.  Since  there  are  sixteen  different  philosophic  systems  in  India, 
it  is  impossible  even  to  give  in  this  place  any  general  account  of  them. 
Emerson  knew  in  translation  the  general  purpose  of  the  Upanishads  12 
or  philosophic  books  of  the  Hindus,  108  in  number,  which  developed 
into  the  Vedanta  system,  the  favorite  philosophy  of  the  Hindus  of  the 
present  day.  Among  the  most  striking  results  of  his  interest  is  the  poem, 
lkBrahma"  (1857),  beginning: 

If  the  red  slayer  think  he  slays 
Or  if  the  slain  think  he  is  slain, 
They  know  not  well  the  subtle  ways 
I  keep,  and  pass,  and  turn  again. 

The  Kathaka,  one  of  the  most  ancient  of  the  Upanishads,  treats  the 
question  of  life  after  death.  Yama,  the  god  of  death,  tells  a  young 
Brahmin  aspirant,  Nachiketas: 

The  slayer  thinks  he  slays,  the  slain 
Believes  himself  destroyed;  the  thoughts  of  both 
Are  false,  the  soul  survives,  nor  kills,  nor  dies: 
This  subtler  than  the  subtlest.13 

Emerson  was  greatly  interested  in  the  doctrine  of  "Maya"  or  illusion. 
In  the  Hindu  philosophy  Maya  is  differently  represented.  In  Sankara's 
"Vedanta"  it  is  used  in  the  sense  of  illusion,  both  as  a  principle  of  creation, 

11  For  the  list,  see  Journals,  Vol.  9,  pp.  419-420. 

12  The  original  name  was  "Srimad-bhagavad-gita-upanishadas."  I  am  indebted  for 
several  of  these  statements  concerning  Hindu  philosophy  to  Mr.  Man-Mohun  Singh, 
whose  thesis  on  Emerson  and  the  Orient  will  soon  be  published. 

13  Translation  used  by  Monier-Williams.  Emerson  gives  a  prose  translation  of 
the  account  of  the  questions  Nachiketas  puts  to  Yama  in  his  essay  on  "Immortality," 
Works,  Cent.  Ed.,  Vol.  8,  but  does  not  indicate  his  source.  He  does,  however,^ quote 
from  the  Vishnu  Purana  as  early  as  1845  in  his  Journals,  p.  127,  a  passage,  "What 
living  creature  slays  or  is  slain?  What  living  creature  preserves  or  is  preserved?  Each 
is  his  own  destroyer  or  preserver,  as  he  follows  evil  or  good."  The  first  form  of 
Emerson's  poem  is  given  in  the  Journals  for  1856,  Vol.  9,  pp.  56-57.  The  relation  of 
the  poem  to  the  translation  in  Vol.  25,  No.  19,  of  the  Biblioteca  Indica  (Calcutta, 
1852),  was  first  discussed  by  W.  S.  Kennedy,  Clews  to  Emerson's  Mystic  Verse  (1903), 
pp.  202-204. 


2  8z  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

as  a  Sakti  (power)  or  accessory  cause,  and  as  the  phenomenal  creation 
itself,  as  the  illusion  of  world  appearance.14  Brahman  is  reallv  identical 
with  Atman,  the  individual  self,  but  Atman,  under  the  spell  of  Avid j a 
or  ignorance,  imagines  it  is  separate  from  Brahman.  God  is  Brahman, 
and  is  without  qualities.  The  problem  of  relation  does  not  arise,  because 
when  there  is  only  one  existence,  how  could  it  be  related?  But— it  is 
Maya  which  makes  the  One  Brahman  appear  as  many.  Emerson  did  not 
adopt  the  theory  of  Maya.  In  his  essay,  "Illusions,"  he  rejects  them  in 
favor  of  reality. 

Nor  is  it  possible  to  attribute  his  essay  on  "Compensation"  to  the  Hindu 
theory  of  "Karma,"  that  our  happiness  or  misery  in  life  is  caused  by  the 
deeds  in  our  past  life.  Emerson  had  been  thinking  of  writing  on  com- 
pensation since  he  was  a  boy,  and  the  immediate  cause  was  a  sermon 
which  preached  a  doctrine  similar  to  the  Hindu  thought,  to  which 
Emerson  objected. 

Closely  related  to  the  idea  of  the  Primal  Mind  was  that  of  the  Unity 
and  Supremacy  of  Nature.  In  the  essay  on  "Spiritual  Laws"  he  says: 
"Nature  will  not  have  us  fret  and  fume  . . .  When  we  come  out  of  the 
caucus,  or  the  bank  or  the  Abolition  Convention  or  the  temperance  meet- 
ing or  the  Transcendental  Club,  into  the  fields  and  woods,  she  says  to 
us  'so  hot!  my  little  sir?'  " 

In  "The  Poet"  he  preaches  that  the  reconnection  of  the  individual 
with  Nature  is  the  cure  for  many  of  our  evils.  Yet  he  recognizes  in  the 
second  essay  on  "Nature"  that  "the  fop  of  fields  is  no  better  than  his 
brother  of  Broadway"— and  "the  beauty  of  nature  must  always  seem 
unreal  and  mocking  until  the  landscape  has  human  figures  that  are  as 
good  as  itself." 

In  "Threnody"  he  found  in  Nature  a  comfort  for  even  the  great 
sorrow  for  his  little  son's  death: 

But  thou,  my  votary,  weepest  thou? 

I  gave  thee  sight— where  is  it  now? 

1  taught  thy  heart  beyond  the  reach 

Of  ritual,  bible  or  of  speech; 

Wrote  in  thy  mind's  transparent  table, 

As  far  as  the  incommunicable; 

Taught  thee  each  private  sign  to  raise 

Lit  by  the  supersolar  blaze. 

Past  utterance,  and  past  belief, 

And  past  the  blasphemy  of  grief, 

The  mysteries  of  Nature's  heart; 

And  though  no  Muse  can  these  impart, 

Throb  thine  with  Nature's  throbbing  breast, 

And  all  is  clear  from  east  to  west. 

1  '  Singh,  Emerson,  Chap.  5,  p.  3;  from  Dasgupta,  etc. 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  283 

In  discussing  the  supremacy  of  Nature  he  turned  again  into  poetry 
an  idea  from  the  East.  In  his  Journal  for  1845,15  he  copies  a  translation 
from  the  Vishna  Purana,  probably  from  Colebrooke's  "On  the  Vedas" 
which  he  had  been  reading,  or  the  translation  by  H.  H.  Wilson  (1840). 
Parasara  is  speaking: 

The  words  "I  and  mine"  constitute  ignorance. 

I  have  now  given  you  a  summary  account  of  the  sovereigns  of  the  earth.— 
These,  and  other  kings  who  with  perishable  frames  have  possessed  this  ever- 
enduring  world,  and  who,  blinded  with  deceptive  notions  of  individual  oc- 
cupation, have  indulged  the  feeling  that  suggests  "This  earth  is  mine,— it  is 
my  son's,— it  belongs  to  my  dynasty,"— have  all  passed  away.  So,  many  who 
reigned  before  them,  many  who  succeeded  them,  and  many  who  are  yet  to 
come,  have  ceased  or  will  cease  to  be.  Earth  laughs,  as  if  smiling  with  autumnal 
flowers  to  behold  her  kings  unable  to  effect  the  subjugation  of  themselves.  I 
will  repeat  to  you,  Maitreya,  the  stanzas  that  were  chanted  by  Earth. 

This  inspired  him  to  write  "Hamatreya"— a  coined  word— which  trans- 
ferred from  kings  to  his  fellow  townsmen, 

Bulkeley,  Hunt,  Willard,  Hosmer,  Merriam,  Flint, 

the  desire  to  possess  the  land.  "The  Earth  Song,"  which  contains  the 
answer  to  their  desires,  begins: 

Mine  and  yours; 
Mine,  not  yours. 
Earth  endures; 
Stars  abide— 

Shine  down  in  the  old  sea; 
Old  are  the  shores; 
But  where  are  old  men? 
I  who  have  seen  much, 
Such  have  I  never  seen  . . . 

and  concludes: 

They  called  me  theirs, 

Who  so  controlled  me; 

Yet  every  one 

Wished  to  stay,  and  is  gone, 

How  am  I  theirs, 

If  they  cannot  hold  me, 

But  I  hold  them? 

The  happy  choice  of  the  metrical  arrangement,  so  reminiscent  of 
Old  English  versification,  is  only  another  proof  of  Emerson's  instinctive 
sense  of  rhythmical  fitness  in  dealing  with  a  primitive  theme. 

15  Journals,  Vol.  7,  pp.  127-128. 


284  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Emerson,  of  course,  drew  also,  from  his  greater  knowledge  of  Plato, 
inspiration  or  authority  for  his  mystical  verse.  "Daemonic  Love"  is  based 
on  the  Platonic  or  Socratic  idea  of  daemons: 

Close,  close  to  men, 

Like  undulating  layer  of  air 

Right  above  their  heads 

The  potent  plain  of  Daemons  spreads. 

and  Emerson  proceeds  through  "Celestial  Love"  to  mount  to  "a  purer 
gift"  in  which  the  wheel  symbolism  of  the  Hindus  is  employed.16 

The  Persian  phase  of  Emerson's  oriental  interest  is  expressed  in  his 
essay  on  "Persian  Poetry"  in  Letters  and  Social  Aims.  Emerson  could  not 
read  Persian  and  depended  largely  upon  the  German  translations  of 
Baron  von  Hammer-Purgstall.  The  influence  of  Persian  poetry,  especially 
that  of  Hafiz,  is  shown  in  poems  like  "Bacchus"  which  praises  the  wine 
that  inspires,  not  the  voluptuary,  but  the  poet.  But  the  influence  upon 
Emerson's  own  poetry  is  not  fundamental,  and  is  usually  of  a  very 
general  nature.  He  praised  Saadi,  for  example,  because  he  loved  indepen- 
dence, not  because  he  was  Persian,  and  what  he  liked  in  Hafiz  was  his 
"intellectual  liberty."  17 

Probably  the  topic  to  which  Emerson  was  most  devoted  was  the 
independence  of  the  individual.  The  Primal  Mind  manifests  itself  in  the 
individual  mind,  therefore  the  individual  must  be  right.  This  indepen- 
dence strikes  the  keynote  of  "Self-Reliance"  and  "Character";  it  colors 
his  conception  of  "History";  it  creates  his  standards  in  "Manners";  it 
underlies  his  social  philosophy  in  "New  England  Reformers"  and  "Society 
and  Solitude."  It  animates  his  Phi  Beta  Kappa  Address  on  "The  Ameri- 
can Scholar,"  which  is  a  declaration  of  independence  against  "the  courtly 
muses  of  Europe"  to  which  we  had  listened  too  long.  He  chose  his 
Representative  Men  because  of  their  individual  quality.  His  ideal  of  "Self- 
Reliance"  is  found  in  that  essay  in  a  sentence  which  is  also  a  model  of 
perfect  balance  and  prose  rhythm:  "It  is  easy  in  the  world  to  live  after 
the  world's  opinion;  it  is  easy  in  solitude  to  live  after  our  own,  but  the 
great  man  is  he  who,  in  the  midst  of  the  crowd,  keeps  with  perfect  sweet- 
ness the  independence  of  solitude."  1S 

Emerson  carried  this  doctrine  of  individuality  to  its  logical  extreme; 

1 8  For  detailed  explanation  of  this  symbolism,  see  Kennedy,  Emerson's  Mystic  Verse, 
pp.  196-202. 

1 "  According  to  J.  D.  Yohannan,  "Emerson's  Translations  of  Persian  Poetry  from 
German  Sources,"  Avier.  Lit.,  Vol.  14  (Jan.,  1943),  pp.  407-420,  Emerson  translated 
seven  hundred  lines  of  Persian  poetry  from  the  German.  See  also  "The  Influence 
of  Persian  Poetry  upon  Emerson's  Work,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  15  (March,  1943), 
pp.  25-41. 

1 8  As  an  illustration  of  the  care  with  which  Emerson  revised  his  sentences,  see 
the  first  form  of  this  thought,  journals,  Vol.  3  (Dec.  22,  1834),  p.  401. 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  285 

independence  of  one's  self.  "With  consistency,"  He  said,  "a  great  soul 
has  nothing  to  do.  He  may  as  well  concern  himself  with  his  shadow  on 
the  wall."  In  his  poetry,  "Uriel"  contains  in  a  short  compass  the  theologi- 
cal discussion  leading  up  to  his  "Address  before  the  Divinity  School" 
(1838).  In  "Give  All  to  Love"  the  necessity  of  independence  from 
personal  ties,  leads  to  one  of  his  most  quoted  epigrams: 

Though  thou  loved  her  as  thyself, 

As  a  self  of  purer  clay, 

Though  her  parting  dims  the  day, 

Stealing  grace  from  all  alive; 

Heartily  know, 

When  half-gods  go, 

The  gods  arrive. 

Emerson's  idealism  was  distinctly  practical.  The  theoretical  idealism 
of  Germany  interested  him  little.  He  tried  to  read  Hegel  without  much 
success  in  1855  but  since  he  was  always  receptive  to  suggestions  which 
would  widen  his  knowledge  he  took  with  him  on  his  lecture  tour,  J.  H. 
Sterling's  The  Secret  of  Hegel,  in  1865.  He  accepted  W.  T.  Harris's 
invitation  to  meet  the  group  of  Hegelians  in  St.  Louis,  in  1867,  but  his 
comment  is  characteristic:  "My  Preference  is  that  the  hideous  skeleton 
of  philosophy  be  covered  with  beautiful  living  tissue;  I  do  not  enjoy 
for  my  intellectual  repast  the  dry  bones  of  thought."  19  His  Platonic 
idealism  was  to  him  more  concrete,  and  in  "Circles,"  he  spoke  of  the  de- 
grees in  idealism,  passing  from  academic  possibility  until  "It  shows  itself 
ethical  and  practical.  We  learn  that  God  is;  and  that  he  is  in  me  and  that 
all  things   are   shadows   of   him." 

It  is  more  illuminating  to  study  Emerson  from  the  individual  essays 
and  poems  than  from  the  volumes,  which  indeed  have  sometimes  little 
unity.  The  First  Series  of  Essays  appeared  in  1841;  the  Second  Series  in 
1844  and  Nature,  Addresses,  and  Lectures  in  1849.  The  first  volume  of 
Foems  appeared  in  1847  and  May -Day  and  Other  Pieces  in  1867.  While 
there  are  many  original  ideas  in  the  later  volumes  of  essays,  The  Conduct 
of  Life  (i860),  Society  and  Solitude  (1870),  Letters  and  Social  Aims 
(1876),  there  was  not  the  same  freshness  of  inspiration.  Any  scholar 
can  sympathize  with  Emerson's  distaste  for  gardening  as  dulling  of  the 
faculties,  in  "Wealth",  and  his  plea  for  the  proper  adaptation  of  talents, 
but  the  quotable  passages  are  not  so  frequent. 

One  of  the  least  valid  of  the  critical  judgments  of  Emerson's  poetry 
lies  in  the  supposed  roughness  of  its  metre.  Emerson  stated  his  poetic 
creed  in  "Merlin": 


19  H.  A.  Pochmann,  New  England  Transcendentalism  and  St.  Louis  Hegelianism 
([1948]),  p.  56,  quoting  D.  J.  Snider,  A  Writer  of  Books. 


286        the  Literature  of  the  American  people 

Thv  trivial  harp  will  never  please 

Or  fill  my  craving  ear; 

Its  chords  should  ring  as  blows  the  breeze, 

Free,  peremptory,  clear. 

No  jingling  serenader's  art, 

Nor  tinkle  of  piano  strings, 

Can  make  the  wild  blood  start 

In  its  mystic  springs  . . . 

Great  is  the  art, 

Great  be  the  manners,  of  the  bard. 

He  shall  not  his  brain  encumber 

With  the  coil  of  rhythm  and  number; 

But,  leaving  rule  and  pale  forethought, 

He  shall  aye  climb 

For  his  rhyme. 


A 


If  Emerson  scouted  the  "rules"  which,  in  his  day,  meant  a  carefully 
measured  succession  of  accented  and  unaccented  syllables,  he  never 
violated  the  fundamental  laws  of  English  versification.  He  did  not  know 
the  history  of  these  laws,  but  with  sure  if  unconscious  instinct  he 
followed  the  impulses  which  every  great  English  poet  has  pursued.  He 
wrote  usually  in  a  four,,  or  less  often,  in  a  three  stressjjeasure,  with  a 
fairly  even  time  interval  between  the  stresses.  With  a  freedom  inherited 
from  Old  English  rhythmical  laws,  he  varied  the  number  of  stresses  in 
a  verse,  changed  from  a  rising  to  a  falling  measure,  or  vice  versa,  and, 
like  Poe,  paid  almost  no  attention  to  so-called  "regularity"  of  stanza, 
using  any  number  of  verses  in  a  stanza  at  will.  In  short,  the  meaning 
alwayjsjdojrmn^^  That  he  was  a  master  of  the  subtler 

overtones  of  the  vowel  sounds  and  the  variety  of  the  shifting  stress  is 
proved  by  the  exquisite  harmonies  of  "The  Rhodora,"  "Woodnotes," 
"Ode  to  Beauty,"  "Give  All  to  Love,"  "Threnody,"  and  "Days."  His 
freedoms  were  not  license;  modern  "free  verse"  would  have  annoyed 
him,  —  for  there  was  nothing  slipshod  in  his  poetry.  His  sense  of  harmony 
was  reflected  also  in  his  prose  utterances,  for  contemporaries  like  Parker 
spoke  of  "the  exquisite  rhythmic  speech  of  Emerson."  20 

Representative  Men  (1850)  and  English  Traits  (1856)  have  more  unity 
than  the  other  volumes  of  essays  and  are  more  concrete  in  their  concep- 
tion. It  is  illuminating  to  compare  the  selections  made  by  Carlyle  in  his 
Heroes  and  Hero  Worship  with  those  made  by  Emerson  in  Representa- 
tive Men.  Carlyle  chose  Odin,  as  divinity;  Mahomet,  as  prophet;  Dante 
and  Shakespeare,  as  poets;  Luther  and  Knox,  as  priests;  Johnson,  Rousseau 
and  Burns,  as  men  of  letters;  Cromwell  and  Napoleon,  as  kings.  Emerson 
selected  Plato  as  philosopher;  Swedenborg,  as  mystic;  Montaigne,  as 
sceptic;  Shakespeare,  as  poet;  Napoleon,  as  a  man  of  the  world;  and 

20  Mass.  Quart.  Review,  Vol.  1    (Sept.  1848),  p.  434. 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  287 


Goethe,  as  writer.  Shakespeare  and  Napoleon  are  the  only  two  in  both 
lists.  For  the  hero,  as  priest  or  prophet,  Emerson  had  no  great  admiration, 
and  the  type  of  hero  who  is  animated  by  a  great  faith  or  leads  a  great 
cause,  like  Columbus  or  Joan  of  Arc,  he  rarely  mentions.  He  notes  his 
list  in  the  Journal  for  1849  and  calls  them  "Big-endians,"  contrasting 
them  with  the  "Little-endians,  Alcott,  Very,  Newcomb,  Channing, 
R.  W.  E.,  Thoreau."  In  the  introduction  to  Representative  Men  he 
speaks  of  Plato,  Shakespeare,  Swedenborg  and  Goethe  as  "meditative  men 
of  an  intuitive  habit  of  thought,"  which  accounts  for  his  choice  of  them. 
He  grew  up  in  the  Napoleonic  era,  and  he  read  Montaigne  first  in  his 
father's  library.21 

Of  the  essays,  "Plato"  and  "Shakspeare,"  as  he  insisted  on  spelling  the 
name,  are  the  best.  They  are  not  biographical  but  usually  are  discussions 
of  the  man's  spiritual  accomplishments.  If  Emerson  ever  let  himself  go, 
it  is  in  his  praise  of  Plato:  "Out  of  Plato  come  all  things  that  are  still 
written  and  debated  among  men  of  thought."  The  essays  on  Shakespeare, 
Plato,  Goethe  and  Montaigne  may  best  be  considered  in  the  later  discus- 
sion of  American  criticism.22  To  Emerson,  Napoleon  was  an  intellectual 
aristocrat,  but  a  political  democrat;  a  leader  but  without  conscience. 

Among  the  other  biographical  writings  of  Emerson,  those  on 
"Plutarch"  23  and  "Abraham  Lincoln"  24  are  most  interesting.  Of  the 
latter  he  prophesied  truly  that  he  would  "serve  his  country  even  more 
by  his  death  than  by  his  life." 

In  1847  ne  accepted  the  invitation  of  certain  Mechanics'  Institutes  to 
lecture  in  England.  He  renewed  his  friendship  with  Carlyle,  although  the 
total  impression  from  his  letters  implies  that  there  was  somewhat  of  a 
cooling  in  that  relation.  He  enjoyed  such  contacts  as  he  made  and 
George  Eliot  recorded  in  her  diary:  "He  is  the  first  man  I  have  ever  met."  25 
Emerson  seems  to  have  had  a  rather  stodgy  set  of  audiences  so  far  as  the 
Mechanics'  Institutes  were  concerned,  but  also  to  have  had  a  good  agent, 
Alexander  Ireland,  and  not  to  have  confined  himself  to  the  Institutes. 
He  lectured  principally  on  "Domestic  Life,"  "Napoleon,"  "Shakspeare," 
"National  Characteristics  of  the  Six  Northern  States  of  America,"  "Elo- 
quence," "Montaigne,"  "Humanity  of  Science,"  "The  Spirit  of  the  Age," 
"Books,"  and  "Natural  Aristocracy."  Emerson's  trip  was  not  very  profit- 
able financially,  as  he  received  from  five  to  seven  guineas  a  lecture,  but  he 
met  many  of  his  disciples.  He  wrote  Lidian  that  he  was  "preached  against 
every  Sunday  by  the  Church  of  England  and  by  the  Church  of  Sweden- 

21  For  a  detailed  analysis  of  his  growth  of  knowledge  of  Montaigne,  see  Emerson's 
Montaigne  (1 941),  by  C.W.Young. 

22  Chapter  24. 

23  Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches  (1871). 

24  April  19,  1865.  Rep.  in  Miscellanies. 

25  Townsend  Scudder,  The  Lonely  Wayfaring  Man  (1936),  p.  113. 


288  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

borg  . .  .  "  26  A  sentence  in  the  lecture  on  Swedenborg,  "Man,  wherever 
thou  seest  him,  in  brothels,  gaols,  or  on  gibbets,  is  on  his  way  upwards  to 
all  that  is  good  and  true,"  came  in  for  severe  comment.27 

The  result  of  his  visit  was  English  Traits  (1856).  Emerson  described 
England  through  the  different  phases  of  her  life  from  the  "Land"  and 
the  tlRace"  to  her  "Wealth"  and  "Religion."  It  is  one  of  the  most  signifi- 
cant of  American  judgments  of  the  English  people,  penetrating  and  yet 
fair.  He  recognized  their  pluck,  their  stamina,  their  persistence  and  their 
sincerity.  Yet  he  also  remarked  in  "Character"  that  "a  saving  stupidity 
masks  and  protects  their  perception,  as  the  curtain  of  an  eagle's  eye." 
And  he  began  his  section  on  "Wealth"  with  the  sentence:  "There  is  no 
country  in  which  so  absolute  a  homage  is  paid  to  wealth."  He  called 
attention  to  the  implicit  acknowledgement  of  this  in  the  novels  and 
biographies  of  that  century.  The  weaker  side  of  English  Traits  lies  in 
Emerson's  lack  of  historical  knowledge.  He  is  ignorant  of  the  real  Nor- 
man and  Celtic  contributions  and  attributes  most  of  the  national  virtues 
to  the  Saxon  element.  "Twenty  thousand  thieves  landed  at  Hastings. 
These  ancestors  of  the  House  of  Lords,"— and  so  on,  are  hardly  the 
remarks  of  an  authority. 

After  his  return  from  England  Emerson  continued  his  way  of  life, 
taking  his  part  in  the  activities  of  Concord,  and  speaking  his  mind  boldly 
on  slavery  and  the  Civil  War,  activities  to  be  treated  elsewhere.28  In 
1870,  when  he  was  invited  to  deliver  a  course  of  lectures  at  Harvard 
College,  he  gathered  notes  he  had  been  making  since  1848  and  gave  his 
Natural  History  of  Intellect.  It  was  his  attempt  at  a  systematic  philosophy 
but  it  was  hardly  successful,  for  it  came  too  late,  three  years  after  he 
had  said  in  "Terminus,"  "It  is  time  to  take  in  sail."  He  realized  his  lack 
of  consecutiveness  in  his  own  words,  "  'Tis  with  us  a  flash  of  light,  then 
a  long  darkness,  then  a  flash  again."  This  comparative  failure  was  the 
more  to  be  regretted  since  Emerson  had  long  wished  to  receive  a  call 
from  a  college,  which  never  came.  His  ideas  upon  college  education  were 
given  in  his  Journal  in  1839.29  His  faculty  would  have  consisted  of 
Allston,  Greenough,  Bryant,  Irving,  Webster  and  Alcott,  and  if  necessary 
to  send  abroad,  Carlyle,  Hallam  and  Campbell.  It  seems  a  pity  that  such 
an  experiment  could  not  have  been  made!  Emerson  was  elected  in  1867 
an  Overseer  of  Harvard  College  and  served  on  a  committee  which  favored 
an  elective  system. 

It  may  be  noticed  that  there  was  no  teacher  of  science  in  his  college. 
Emerson's  reading  in  science  began  at  Harvard  but  his  early  essays  con- 
tain critical  statements  concerning  its  failures  to  solve  the  problem  of 

~';  From  Manchester,  Dec.  1,  1847.  Letters,  Vol.  3,  p.  444. 

27  Quoted  by  Scudder,  "Emerson's  British  Lecture  Tour,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  7  (May, 
1935),  p.  171,  from  the  Manchester  Courier,  Nov.  10,  1847. 

28  Chapter  25. 

2'->  Works,  Vol.  5,  p.  203. 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  289 

the  creation  of  Nature.30  In  "The  American  Scholar"  he  stated  that 
"science  is  nothing  but  the  finding  of  analogy,  identity,  in  the  most 
remote  parts."  31  In  "Beauty"  he  complained,  "What  a  parade  we  make 
of  our  science,  and  how  far  off  and  at  arm's  length  it  is  from  its  objects!" 
. . .  "All  our  science  lacks  a  human  side."  . .  .  "Science  in  England,  in 
America,  is  jealous  of  theory,  hates  the  name  of  love  and  moral  pur- 
pose." 32  Science  and  materialism  were  allied  in  his  mind,  and  had  to  be 
humanized.33  In  English  Traits  he  criticized  English  science  that  puts 
humanity  to  the  door.31  Emerson  became  more  reconciled  to  scientific 
methods  as  he  grew  older.  He  accepted  the  doctrine  of  evolution  and  in 
"Poetry  and  Imagination,"  35  he  said: 

The  electric  word  pronounced  by  John  Hunter  100  years  ago,  arrested  and 
progressive  development,  indicating  the  way  upward  from  the  invisible  proto- 
plasm to  the  highest  organisms,  gave  the  poetic  key  to  National  Science,  of 
which  the  theories  of  Geoffrey  Saint-Hilaire,  of  Oken,  of  Goethe,  of  Agassiz 
and  Owen  and  Darwin  in  zoology  and  botany,  are  the  fruits— a  hint  whose 
power  is  not  yet  exhausted,  showing  unity  and  perfect  order  in  physics. 

A  letter  to  Mrs.  Anne  Charlotte  Lynch  Botta,  dated  Concord,  March 
16,  1869,  is  of  interest: 

I  am  glad  you  find  Huxley  interesting.  He  is  acknowledged  master  in  England. 
As  long  ago  as  the  Prince  of  Wales  was  in  Boston,  Dr.  Acland  interested  us 
much  in  H.  But  I  have  read  him  less  than  his  compeers,  Owen  and  Tyndall 
and  Darwin . . .  Natural  Science  is  the  point  of  interest  now  and,  I  think,  is 
dimming  and  extinguishing  a  good  deal  that  was  called  poetry.  These  sublime 
and  all  reconciling  revelations  of  nature  will  exact  of  poetry  a  correspondent 
height  and  scope  or  put  an  end  to  it!  36 

What  Emerson  objected  to  in  scientific  pronouncements  was  their 
assumed  infallibility.  At  the  first  lecture  in  the  course  on  Natural  History 
of  Intellect,  after  speaking  of  his  attendance  at  scientific  lectures  in 
London  and  Paris,  he  remarked,  "one  could  not  help  admiring  the  irre- 
sponsible security  and  happiness  of  the  attitude  of  the  naturalist;  sure 
of  admiration  for  his  facts,  sure  of  their  sufficiency."  In  short,  Emerson 
was  not  strictly  scientific  but  he  sometimes  anticipated  the  moral  and 
spiritual  consequences  of  scientific  discovery— taking  the  step  which  the 


30  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  4. 

31  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  86. 

32  Works,  Vol.  6,  pp.  281,  282,  284. 

33  Works,  Vol.  2,  p.  369. 

34  Works,  Vol.  5,  p.  253. 

35  Included  in  Works,  Vol.  8,  p.  7,  but  written  some  years  before.  See  Introduction 
by  Cabot  and  Notes  to  Centenary  Ed.;  for  other  favorable  treatments  of  science  see 
"The  Progress  of  Culture,"  same  volume,  pp.  221-222,  and  "Education"  in  Works, 
Vol.  10. 

3  6  Manuscript  of  this  letter  is  in  the  Huntington  Library. 


29o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

factual  and  empirical  science  hesitates  to  take  or  scorns  to  take— and 
which  alone  justifies  its  efforts. 

In  1 87 1,  Emerson  made  a  journey  to  California,  which  refreshed  him 
and  gave  him  an  opportunity  to  speak  to  new  audiences.  The  Far  West 
appealed  to  his  imagination,  to  his  love  of  freedom,  especially  the  basic 
quality  of  our  civilization  in  his  day,  the  fact  that  there  was  always  room 
to  move.  While  he  wrote  mostly  of  the  spiritual  frontier,  there  can  be 
little  doubt  that  the  shifting  material  frontier  was  a  subconscious  element 
in  his  thinking.37 

In  July,  1872,  a  portion  of  his  home  was  destroyed  by  fire,  and,  while 
it  was  being  rebuilt  through  a  generous  subscription  by  friends,  he  made 
a  third  visit  abroad,  returning  in  May,  1873.  In  1874  he  published  an 
anthology  of  British  and  American  poetry,  entitled  Parnassus.  Emerson's 
last  years  were  marked  by  failing  memory,  which  was  however  not  in  any 
way  decay.  He  died  May  25,  1882  of  pneumonia.  Lectures  and  Biographi- 
cal Sketches  (1884),  Miscellanies  (1884)  and  Natural  History  of  Intellect 
and  Other  Papers  (1893),  contain  his  last  and  some  of  his  earlier  writings. 

Emerson's  influence  upon  the  thought  of  his  own  day  was  great  and  it 
has  been  continuous.  In  America  he  has  become  so  much  an  institution 
that  epigrams  are  often  credited  to  him  which  are  really  those  of  his 
disciples  dressing  up  his  thoughts.  In  England,  Matthew  Arnold's  sonnet 
and  critical  essay;  the  tributes  of  Cough  and  of  Froude,  of  Spencer  and 
of  Tyndall,  who  began  his  daily  tasks  with  a  reading  of  Emerson's  poems; 
the  dedication  by  Max  Miiller  of  one  of  his  volumes  of  lectures,  are  among 
the  many  instances  of  his  effect  upon  the  greater  English  writers,  histo- 
rians and  scientists.38  The  translations  of  Emerson's  writings  into  con- 
tinental European  literatures  up  to  1908  :i)  reveal  the  extent  of  his  influ- 
ence there  in  the  nineteenth  century.  The  collected  works  begin  with 
the  French  version  of  the  Essays,  First  Series,  in  1851,  and  the  translation 
of  both  series  into  German  in  1858.  Spanish  translations  began  in  1900. 
Individual  essays,  like  "Napoleon,"  appeared  in  the  Review  Brittannique 
in  1850,  and  the  Representative  Men  was  a  favorite  for  translation, 
volumes  appearing  in  French,  German,  Danish  and  Swedish.  Since  Emer- 
son's gift  to  his  readers  has  been  inspiration,  not  information,  his  message 
has  not  been  superceded.  By  selecting  what  is  palatable  to  himself,  almost 
any  disciple  can  find  material  for  a  philosophy.  George  Santayana  prob- 
ably put  it  best  when  he  said  that  Emerson  won  his  place  "if  not  by  the 
originality  of  his  thought,  at  least  by  the  originality  and  beauty  of  the 
expression  he  gave  to  thoughts  that  are  old  and  imperishable."  40 

17  See  Ernest  Marchand,  "Emerson  and  the  Frontier,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  3  (May, 
193 1 ),  pp.  149-177. 

38  See  for  a  good  resume,  C.  F.  Gohdes,  American  Literature  in  Nineteenth -Century 
England  (1944),  pp.  145-148;  162-164. 

•!!)  Recorded  by  G.  W.  Cooke  in  his  Bibliography. 

4,1  An  Interpretation  of  Poetry  and  Religion  (1900),  Vol.  2,  p.  164. 


INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE  291 

Emerson  examined  various  systems  of  thought  and  adopted  those  which 
were  of  service  to  him  at  different  times— also  to  the  condition  of  the 
world  and  society  in  different  places  and  times.  Hence  arise  the  apparent 
contradictions  in  his  essays.  But  the  consistency  was  of  a  higher  nature— 
when  these  ideas,  Eastern  or  Western,  could  not  square  with  his  philo- 
sophy of  practical  idealism  he  discussed  them,  it  is  true,  but  he  observed 
them  rather  than  adopted  them.  The  importance  of  moral  sanity  was 
ever  present. 

Reading  Emerson  is  not,  as  so  many  have  said,  like  going  into  the 
fresh  air.  Rather  it  is  like  entering  a  room  highly  charged  with  oxygen. 
Magnificent  phrases  abound  and  remain  in  memory  by  the  right  of 
eminent  domain.  World  artist  as  he  has  proved  to  be,  and  universal  as 
were  his  themes,  he  could  have  arisen  in  no  soil  but  his  own,  which  he 
always  left  with  hesitation  and  to  which  he  returned  with  satisfaction 
for  fresh  inspiration. 


Chapter  18 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL 

It  was  an  idealism  of  a  different  nature  which  Edgar  Allan  Poe  sought 
to  establish  in  his  poetry  and  his  fiction.  He  was  not  concerned  with 
reform,  social  or  even  individual.  The  nature  of  the  crimes  committed 
by  the  former  inhabitants  of  "The  City  in  the  Sea,"  "The  Valley  of 
Unrest"  or  "The  Haunted  Palace"  is  vague.  Outside  of  "William 
Wilson,"  the  effects  of  sin  upon  the  conscience  of  the  characters  is  absent. 
The  crimes  of  "Baron  Metzengerstein";  the  revenge  of  Montresor  in 
"The  Cask  of  Amontillado";  of  "Hop  Frog"  upon  the  emperor;  of  the 
anonymous  murderer  of  "The  Tell-Tale  Heart,"  are  not  concerned  with 
right  or  wrong.  His  love  stories  are  as  pure  as  fairy  tales;  the  passion  of 
love  is  indicated  only  by  its  effects  in  producing  that  shrine  of  beauty 
which  is  Poe's  altar.  And  the  idols  which  his  heroes  worship  are  unsullied 
by  guilty  passion  because  of  a  fastidiousness  in  his  own  nature  which 
made  the  women  he  loved  in  real  life  cherish  their  recollections  of  his 
wooing  and  defend  his  memory  from  the  scandals  of  Griswold.  With 
his  ardent  love  of  beauty  of  all  descriptions  and  his  ability  to  create 
sensuous  impressions  of  womanly  loveliness,  he  could  have  painted  sensual 
delights  with  skill  and  effect.  But  it  was  the  patrician  rather  than  the 
puritan  which  scorned  this  artistic  descent,  and  if  it  were  necessary  to 
establish  his  own  virility,  this  abstention  from  the  voluptuousness  of  sex 
would  prove  it  conclusively.  It  is  those  unfortunates  who  are  deprived 
by  nature  of  the  power  of  sexual  gratification  who  substitute  its  exploita- 
tion in  fiction  or  verse. 

He  was  born  January  19,  1S09,  in  Boston,  where  his  parents,  David 
Poe,  Jr.,  and  Elizabeth  Arnold  Poe,  were  members  of  the  Boston  Theatre 
Company.  David  Poe  came  of  a  well-known  Baltimore  family,  originally 
Irish.  1 1c  was  an  attractive  but  unreliable  man,  and  only  a  fair  actor. 
Elizabeth  Arnold,  who  had  been  brought  to  this  country  as  a  little  girl 
by  her  mother,  herself  an  actress,  had  become  a  favorite  with  audiences 
from  Charleston  to  Boston.  When  she  died  in  poverty  in  Richmond  in 

292 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL  293 

181 1,  her  husband  had  deserted  her  and  her  three  children.  Edgar  was 
taken  by  Mrs.  John  Allan,  wife  of  a  merchant  of  Richmond,  and  he 
became  Edgar  Allan  Poe.  He  received  a  good  education  in  Richmond, 
later  in  England,  where  Allan's  importing  business  had  taken  him,  and 
finally  at  the  University  of  Virginia,  which  he  entered  in  1826.  He 
remained  less  than  a  year  but  received  honors  in  Latin  and  French,  and 
left  the  University  in  good  scholastic  standing.  Allan  had  sent  him  to 
college,  however,  without  adequate  funds  and  Poe  had  gambled  and  lost, 
incurring  debts  Allan  refused  to  pay.  The  resultant  quarrel,  in  which 
there  were  faults  on  both  sides,  left  Poe  without  hope  of  help  from  his 
foster  father.  Poe  ran  away  to  Boston,  enlisted  as  a  private  in  the  United 
States  Army  under  the  name  of  Edgar  A.  Perry,  and  rose  to  the  rank  of 
sergeant  major  before  he  was  released  in  1829  in  order  to  obtain  an 
appointment  to  West  Point. 

In  the  meantime  he  had  begun  his  real  career  with  the  publication  of 
his  first  volume  of  verse,  Tamerlane  and  Other  Poems,  in  1827,  and  while 
he  was  waiting  for  the  appointment,  he  issued  his  second  volume,  Al 
Aaraaf,  Tamerlane  and  Minor  Poems  (1829).  Tamerlane  received  scant 
notice  and  while  John  Neal  made  some  friendly  references  to  Al  Aaraaf 
in  the  Yankee,  a  writer  less  certain  of  his  real  ability  might  easily  have 
been  discouraged.  But  Poe  in  his  letter  offering  Al  Aaraaf  to  Carey  and 
Lea,  who  did  not  accept  it,  stated  that  he  was  "irrecoverably  a  poet."  He 
could  suffer  and  even  starve,  but  he  saw  the  goal  clearly.  Younger  than 
Emerson,  Whittier  or  Longfellow,  he  anticipated  them  in  the  publication 
of  his  first  volumes  of  poetry. 

Poe's  stay  at  West  Point  was  brief.  He  knew  from  his  army  life  that 
an  officer  must  have  some  private  means,  "and  John  Allan's  second  mar- 
riage in  October,  1830,  ended  his  hope  of  regular  aid  from  him.  Since 
Allan,  his  sponsor,  refused  to  assent  to  his  resignation,  Poe's  only  way 
to  be  released  was  to  incur  dismissal  for  neglect  of  duty.  He  left  West 
Point  in  February,  183 1,  and  probably  through  subscriptions  from  his 
friends  at  the  Academy,  persuaded  a  publisher  to  issue  the  Poems  by 
Edgar  A.  Poe  of  183 1,  in  which  the  first  forms  of  some  of  his  greatest 
efforts,  "To  Helen,"  "Israfel,"  and  "The  City  in  the  Sea"  appeared. 

Joining  the  household  of  his  aunt,  Mrs.  Clemm,  in  Baltimore,  Poe 
turned  to  fiction  and  competed  for  a  prize  offered  by  the  Philadelphia 
Saturday  Courier,  which  he  did  not  win,  although  his  first  stories  were 
published  in  that  periodical  anonymously,  beginning  with  "Metzenger- 
stein"  in  January,  1832.  He  was  more  fortunate  in  1833,  when  he  won 
a  first  prize  of  fifty  dollars  offered  by  the  Baltimore  Saturday  Visiter  with 
"The  Ms.  Found  in  a  Bottle."  John  Pendleton  Kennedy  was  one  of  the 
judges  and  through  him  Poe  secured  the  editorship  of  the  Southern  Lit- 
erary Messenger  in  Richmond.  Here  he  married  his  young  cousin,  Virginia 
Clemm,  on  May  16,  1836,  with  whom  he  was  passionately  in  love. 


294  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Poe  brought  the  Messenger's  circulation  from  five  hundred  to  thirty- 
five  hundred  copies,  but  resigned  his  post  in  January,  1836,  dissatisfied 
with  the  weekly  salary  of  ten  dollars.  After  a  short  residence  in  New 
York  City,  where  he  wrote  Arthur  Gordon  Pym,  his  one  completed 
long  story,  he  brought  his  family  of  Mrs.  Clemm  and  Virginia  to  Phila- 
delphia in  1838.  In  this  city  he  began  his  most  productive  period,  in  which 
appeared  his  own  favorite  story,  "Ligeia";  his  great  poems  like  "The 
Haunted  Palace";  and  his  Tales  of  the  Grotesque  and  Arabesque  (1840). 
In  Philadelphia  he  became  the  joint  editor  of  Burton's  Gentleman's  Maga- 
zine and  in  1841  of  Graham's  Magazine,  and  made  the  latter  the  leading 
magazine  in  the  United  States.  He  left  Graham's  in  May,  1842,  to  found 
a  magazine  of  his  own,  The  Stylus,  which  never  came  into  being.  Great 
editor  as  he  was,  Poe  could  not  understand  that  he  must  have  capital 
which  he  could  afford  to  lose  at  first,  and  he  never  succeeded  in  obtain- 
ing that  capital.  Virginia's  ill  health  added  to  his  anxieties,  and  caused 
him  at  times  to  drink  in  order  to  forget  the  ever-recurring  dread  of  her 
death.  Notwithstanding  his  brilliant  success  with  the  "Murders  in  the 
Rue  Morgue"  and  the  "Gold  Bug"  he  could  not  make  a  decent  living. 
In  1843  he  published  the  first  number  of  his  Prose  Romances,  containing 
two  stories,  hoping  to  issue  a  series  of  cheap  reprints.  Only  the  first  was 
printed,  which  ironically,  is  now  the  rarest  of  his  volumes,  being  insured 
by  the  Library  of  Congress  for  fifty  thousand  dollars.  He  made  an  effort 
to  obtain  a  clerical  position  under  President  Tyler's  administration  but 
failed. 

In  April,  1844,  ne  moved  to  New  York,  joining  the  staff  of  the  New 
York  Mirror  under  Nathaniel  P.  Willis.  Here  appeared  on  January  29, 
1845,  "The  Raven"  printed  in  advance  of  publication  in  the  American 
Review  for  February.  It  attracted  wide  attention.  Poe  left  the  Mirror  to 
become  one  of  the  editors  and  proprietors  of  the  Broadway  Journal,  and 
soon  became  the  sole  proprietor.  Here  at  last  he  had  a  journal  of  his  own, 
even  if  it  was  only  a  weekly,  but  he  could  not  keep  it  alive.  A  volume 
of  his  Tales  was  published  in  1845,  the  only  one  for  which  he  received 
any  financial  return,  a  royalty  of  eight  cents  on  a  book  that  sold  for  half 
a  dollar.  Of  more  importance,  The  Raven  and  Other  Poems,  the  last 
volume  of  his  verse  which  he  was  to  edit,  appeared  in  the  same  year.  In 
1846  he  published  a  series  of  short  articles  on  "The  Literati  of  New  York 
City,"  which  were  generally  fair  and  accurate,  but  which  led  to  one  libel 
suit. 

Poe  moved  in  1846  to  a  cottage  in  Fordham,  then  in  the  country,  for 
the  sake  of  Virginia's  health,  but  here  she  died  January  30,  1847.  Poe  was 
ill  for  months  after  the  realization  of  his  fears— having  literally  starved 
himself  to  bring  her  a  few  comforts.  His  mind,  however,  recovered  its 
vigor.  Eureka,  a  prose  poem  in  which  he  attempted  to  solve  the  problem 
of  the  universe,  was  published  in  1848.  It  has  been  usually  neglected  by 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL  295 

critics  of  Poe,  but  while  he  did  not  solve  the  riddle  of  creation,  no  one 
else  has  solved  it.  The  splitting  of  the  atom,  by  which  an  initial  tremendous 
power  was  loosed,  has  a  strikingly  modern  flavor  and  such  a  profound 
astronomical  physicist  as  the  late  Sir  Arthur  Eddington  has  paid  tribute 
to  the  evidence,  which  Eureka  furnishes,  to  the  lack  of  mental  deteriora- 
tion in  Poe's  last  years.  Those  years  were  cheered  somewhat  by  the  af- 
fection and  sympathy  of  Mrs.  Sarah  Helen  Whitman,  a  poetess  of  some 
ability,  who  became  engaged  to  be  married  to  Poe,  but  who  broke  the 
engagement,  through  family  pressure.  Yet  in  i860  she  came  to  his  de- 
fence in  Edgar  Poe  and  his  Critics,  a  brilliant  analysis  of  his  work.  Mrs. 
"Annie"  Richmond  of  Lowell,  A4assachusetts,  was  another  of  his  devoted 
friends  and,  when  Poe  went  to  Richmond  in  June,  1849,  to  make  an  effort 
to  recover  his  health  and  standing,  he  renewed  his  boyhood  love  affair 
with  Mrs.  Sarah  Elmira  Royster  Shelton,  a  widow.  It  was  to  bring  Mrs. 
Clemm  to  his  marriage  with  Mrs.  Shelton  that  he  left  Richmond  on 
September  27th,  1849.  He  stopped  in  Baltimore,  probably  went  on  to 
Philadelphia,  where  he  expected  to  meet  a  local  poetess  whose  verse  he 
was  to  edit,  left  Philadelphia  somewhat  under  the  influence  of  liquor,  and 
returned  to  Baltimore  by  mistake  instead  of  going  on  to  New  York.  He 
was  found  at  Ryan's  Fourth  Ward  Polls  on  October  3rd,  taken  by  friends 
to  Washington  College  Hospital  where  he  died  on  October  7th  without 
recovering  consciousness  sufficiently  to  tell  how  he  arrived  at  the  con- 
dition in  which  he  was  discovered.  The  physician  in  charge  testified  that 
there  were  no  signs  of  debauch.  Poe,  indeed,  was  not  a  drunkard.  To  re- 
lieve for  a  brief  time  the  ever-present  apprehension  of  Virginia's  death, 
or  to  forget  the  fear  inspired  by  the  early  death  of  his  brother  through 
mental  exhaustion  and  by  his  sister's  lack  of  mental  growth,  he  would 
take  a  drink  and  become  unable  to  resist  for  a  short  time  further  indul- 
gence in  liquor.  Then,  for  months  he  would  not  touch  a  drop.  He  was 
not  a  drug  addict.  Testimony  of  an  enemy,  Dr.  Thomas  Dunn  English, 
and  of  Thomas  Lane,  a  friend,  both  of  whom  knew  him  for  years,  is 
definite  on  this  point.  Poe  knew  so  little  of  the  effects  of  laudanum  that 
he  took  a  full  ounce  of  the  drug  in  Boston  in  1848,  with  suicidal  intent. 
No  drug  addict  would  have  taken  this  amount,  which  Poe's  stomach  re- 
jected instantly. 

The  flavor  of  disrepute  which  still  attaches  to  Poe's  name,  notwith- 
standing all  the  proofs  to  the  contrary,  began  with  the  publication  of  an 
article  in  the  New  York  Tribune  of  October  9th  by  Reverend  Rufus  W. 
Griswold,  an  editor  and  anthologist.  He  was  an  enemy  of  Poe,  but  the 
latter,  believing  that  the  feud  had  ceased,  had  made  him  his  literary  ex- 
ecutor. It  is  hard  to  find  any  similar  tragedy  in  the  history  of  literature. 

Griswold  began  by  saying,  "Edgar  Poe  is  dead This  announcement 

will  startle  many  but  few  will  be  grieved  by  it."  Then,  by  weaving  a  tissue 
of  half-truths  and  lies,  he  built  up  a  picture  of  a  man  destitute  "of  faith 


296  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  man  or  woman,"  with  "no  moral  susceptibility"  and  "little  or  nothing 
of  the  true  point  of  honor." 

Willis  came  to  his  friend's  defence  in  the  Home  journal  of  October 
20th,  with  that  exquisite  tribute  to  Mrs.  Clemm's  love  and  care,  con- 
cluding, "If  woman's  devotion,  born  with  a  first  love  and  fed  with  hu- 
man passion,  hallow  its  object,  as  it  is  allowed  to  do,  what  does  not  a 
devotion  like  this— pure,  disinterested  and  holy  as  the  watch  of  an  in- 
visible spirit,  say  for  him  who  inspired  it?"  And  George  Graham  in  an 
elaborate  defence  of  Poe  in  his  own  magazine  in  1850,  challenged  Gris- 
wold's picture  of  Poe  as  Griswold  had  painted  it  in  his  "Memoir,"  prefaced 
to  the  two  volumes  of  Poe's  works  which  had  just  appeared— "For  three 
to  four  years,"  Graham  said,  "I  knew  him  intimately  ...  he  was  always 
the  same  polished  gentleman,  the  quiet  unobtrusive,  thoughtful  scholar— 
the  devoted  husband— frugal  in  his  personal  expenses,  punctual  and  un- 
wearied in  his  industry  and  the  soul  of  honor,  in  all  his  transactions." 

But  the  mischief  had  been  done.  Every  new  reprinting  of  the  "au- 
thorized" edition  carried  with  it  Griswold's  "Memoir."  Stung  by  some 
of  the  remarks  of  Poe's  friends,  he  prepared  an  elaborate  defence  of  his 
own  veracity  by  including  letters  to  and  from  Poe,  in  which  by  the  in- 
sertion of  forged  sentences,  he  made  Poe  apparently  the  authority  him- 
self for  some  of  Griswold's  slanders.  But  the  most  dexterous  malignity 
was  shown  by  Griswold's  inserting  forged  sentences  from  men  like 
Burton,  who  is  made  in  his  letters  to  Poe  to  quote  paraphrased  sentences 
apparently  from  Poe,  such  as  "You  say  the  people  love  havoc.  I  think 
they  love  justice."  "I  will  gladly  overlook  the  past,"  which  Burton  never 
■wrote.  Griswold's  own  correspondence  with  Poe  is  filled  with  forgeries 
which  represent  Poe  as  cringing  for  pardon  for  their  quarrel,  and  rep- 
resenting himself  as  a  sycophant. 

To  deprive  Poe  of  his  defenders  Griswold  inserted  forged  sentences 
in  which  Poe  was  made  to  call  Evert  Duyckinck,  a  power  then  in  letters 
in  New  York,  "one  of  our  great  little  cliquists  and  claquers."  Griswold 
also  accused  Poe  of  bad  faith  in  keeping  the  manuscript  of  Longfellow's 
"Beleaguered  City"  until  Poe  had  printed  "The  Haunted  Palace"  and 
then  accusing  Longfellow  of  plagiarism.  Longfellow  disliked  discussions 
but  this  lie  was  too  much  for  him  and  he  promptly  called  Griswold  to 
account.1  The  extent  of  the  damage  done  by  Griswold's  "Memoir"  can- 
not be  discussed  fully  here.  Those  British  reviews  which  endeavored  to 
be  just  were  misled  by  Griswold's  slanders.  Those  who  were  unfriendly 
to  the  United  States  revelled  in  his  charges,2  and  their  articles  were  often 
reprinted  in  his  own  country.  Poe  fared  better  in  France  for  Baudelaire 
translated  his  stories  in  1856  and  1857  and  in  his  preface  to  the  Histoires 

1  Original  MS  in  Boston  Public  Library. 

2  For  a  curiosity  of  denunciation,  sec  George  Gilfillan  in  the  London  Critic  in  1854. 
This  was  reprinted  in  the  Southern  Literary  Messenger  and  in  LittelPs  Living  Age. 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL  297 

Extraor  dm  aires  demanded,  "Does  there  not  exist  in  America  an  ordinance 
which  forbids  to  curs  an  entrance  to  the  cemeteries?" 

In  the  Preface  to  The  Raven  and  Other  Poe777S,  Poe  stated  that  "Events 
not  to  be  controlled  have  prevented  me  from  making  at  any  time  any 
serious  effort  in  what  under  happier  circumstances  would  have  been  the 
field  of  my  choice.  With  me  poetry  has  been  not  a  purpose  but  a  pas- 
sion." It  is,  however,  by  his  poetry  that  Poe  has  the  best  claim  to  im- 
mortality. The  bulk  is  small  but  the  quality  in  its  own  field  is  unsurpassed. 
If  he  confines  himself  to  four  themes,  Pride,  Love,  Death  and  Beauty, 
they  are  the  supreme  topics  which  poets  of  all  ages  have  sought  for  in- 
spiration. Poe  was  a  worshipper  of  beauty;  his  own  capacity  for  love 
reached  out  constantly  for  the  sympathy  without  which  he  could  not 
go  on;  his  pride  was  intense;  and  the  thought  of  death  was  a  constant 
companion.  Even  in  his  earliest  poem,  "Tamerlane,"  these  motives  are 
all  present.  The  hero  sacrifices  the  beauty  of  his  love  to  his  ambition 
and  finds  on  returning  that  she  is  dead  and  all  he  has  won  is  futile. 

The  early  poetry  had  not,  of  course,  the  perfection  of  the  later  lyrics 
but  it  was  not  immature  for  a  boy  of  eighteen.  Some  of  the  poems  were 
revised  in  later  volumes  and  almost  always  improved,  but  "Visit  of  the 
Dead"  in  its  conception  of  the  relation  of  the  living  and  the  dead,  and 
the  untitled  verses  describing  the  Spirit,  "Wearing  its  own  deep  feeling 
as  a  crown,"  w7ere  already  in  his  own  manner. 

"Al  Aaraaf,"  which  began  the  volume  of  1829,  has  been  the  subject  of 
much  explanation,  only  a  portion  of  it  valid.  Poe  explained  that  Al 
Aaraaf  "is  a  medium  between  Heaven  and  Hell  where  men  suffer  no 
punishment  yet  do  not  attain  that  tranquil  and  even  happiness  which 
they  suppose  to  be  characteristic  of  heavenly  enjoyment."  3  Poe  placed 
this  "Al  Aaraaf"  in  the  star  discovered  by  Tycho  Brahe  in  1572  and  rep- 
resented it  as  a  Messenger  Star  of  the  Deity.  Even  after  their  death,  those 
who  choose  to  live  in  the  star  do  not  become  immortal  but  after  a  life 
of  excitement  from  love  sink  into  forgetfulness  and  eternal  death.  There 
is  a  symbolism  which  deals  with  the  pride  of  the  fallen  angels  who  have 
committed  the  unforgivable  crime  of  creating  a  God  in  their  own  like- 
ness. Nesace,  the  Spirit  of  Beauty,  is  also  the  messenger  of  God,  to  pre- 
vent the  other  stars  from  harboring  the  guilt  of  man.  But  more  important 
than  the  symbolism,  which  is  partly  derived  from  Moore's  Lalla  Rookh 
and  The  Loves  of  the  Angels,  is  the  sheer  beauty  of  the  lyrics  interspersed 
in  the  narrative,  such  as  Nesace's  prayer,  beginning: 

Spirit    that    dwellest   where, 

In  the  deep  sky, 
The  terrible  and  fair, 

In  beauty  vie! 

3  Letter  to  Isaac  Lea,  May,  1829.  First  published  in  A.  H.  Quinn,  Edgar  Allan  Foe 
(1942),  pp.  138-143. 


298  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

or  the  song  with  which  she  wakes  the  attendant  spirits: 

'Neath  bluebell  or  streamer 

Or  tufted  wild  spray 
That  keeps  from  the  dreamer 

The  moonbeams  away— 

"Al  Aaraaf '  should  not  be  torn  apart  to  search  for  each  reference  or 
hidden  meaning.  Poe  was  letting  his  imagination  revel  in  luxurious  phrases 
which  translate  emotion  into  sound. 

Like  other  nineteenth-century  writers,  Poe  criticized  the  dogmatism 
of  science  in  his  sonnet,  "Science."  "Romance"  contains  the  expression 
of  his  poetic  theory  that  poetry  must  be  written  in  impassioned  moments. 
"Fairyland,"  which  completed  the  1829  volume,  is  a  mixture  of  imagina- 
tion and  fancy.  So  far  Poe  had  been  experimenting.  But  in  the  Poems  of 
1 83 1  he  wrote  with  the  security  of  genius.  "To  Helen"  is  pure  poetry. 
Even  in  its  earliest  form  it  could  not  have  been  improved  except  by  Poe. 
But  in  its  final  perfection  4  it  defies  criticism: 

Helen,  thy  beauty  is  to  me 

Like  those  Nicean  barks  of  yore, 
That  gently,  o'er  a  perfumed  sea, 

The  weary,  way-worn  wanderer  bore 

To  his  own  native  shore. 

On  desperate  seas  long  wont  to  roam. 

Thy  hyacinth  hair,  thy  classic  face, 
Thy  Naiad  airs  have  brought  me  home 

To  the  glory  that  was  Greece, 

And  the  grandeur  that  was  Rome. 

Lo!  in  yon  brilliant  window-niche 
How  statue-like  I  see  thee  stand, 
The  agate  lamp  within  thy  hand! 

Ah,  Psyche,  from  the  regions  which 

Are  Holy-Land! 

Many  attempts  to  explain  its  symbolism  have  been  made.  It  was  prob- 
ably written  to  A4rs.  Jane  Stith  Craig  Stanard,  a  young  matron  of  Rich- 
mond, who  was  kind  to  Poe  and  whom  he  called  "Helen,"  but  neither 
this  fact  nor  the  identification  of  the  "Nicean  barks"  or  the  "way-worn 
wanderer"  makes  any  real  difference.  It  is  an  immortal  tribute  by  a  lover 
of  beauty  to  his  inspiration.  Yet  "To  Helen"  illustrates  so  well  Poe's 
mastery  of  his  art  that  it  merits  especial  comment.  In  the  1831  version 
the  lines: 

To  the  beauty  of  fair  Greece 
And  the  grandeur  of  old  Rome 

1  Philadelphia  Saturday  Museum,  March  4,  1843. 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL  299 

have  been  changed  into  the  phrases  now  so  famous.  Poe  was  constantly 
revising  his  poetry  and  in  the  final  form  he  gave  not  only  more  effective 
verses  from  the  point  of  alliteration,  but  more  important,  he  created  just 
the  right  contrast  between  the  civilizations  of  Greece  and  Rome.  If  the 
words,  ''glory'1  and  "grandeur"  are  inverted  the  contrast  is  lost.  Note 
also  that  if  Poe  had  followed  the  rule  that  the  rime  scheme  of  each 
stanza  should  be  the  same  as  that  established  by  the  first,  he  could  not 
have  coined  these  striking  phrases.  Each  stanza  has  a  different  rime  scheme 
but  even  when  read  aloud,  the  harmony  is  still  perfect.  The  meaning  is 
never  sacrificed  by  Poe  to  any  mere  metrical  rule. 

In  "Israfel"  stanzaic  structure  has  disappeared  entirely;  each  section  is 
established  by  its  meaning.  The  poem  is  a  challenge  from  a  human  singer 
to  the  angel  Israfel,  that  if  they  changed  places,  the  human  singer  might 
surpass  him.  In  "Israfel"  Poe  again  expressed  his  theory  of  poetry: 

Therefore,  thou  art  not  wrong, 

Israfeli,  who  despisest 
An  unimpassioned  song; 
To  thee  the  laurels  belong, 

Best  bard,  because  the  wisest! 
Merrily  live,  and  long! 

and  he  also  indicated  the  supernatural  delicately  and  effectively: 

Yes,  Heaven  is  thine;  but  this 

Is  a  world  of  sweets  and  sours; 

Our  flowers  are  merely— flowers, 
And  the  shadow  of  thy  perfect  bliss 

Is  the  sunshine  of  ours. 

The  supernatural  lyric  reached  its  highest  level  in  America  in  Poe.  His 
poetry  dealt  with  three  phases  of  the  supernatural.  Most  frequent  is  the 
description  of  the  spirit  world  or  the  suggestion  of  a  relation  between 
the  spirit  world  and  human  beings.  To  this  class  belong  "The  Raven," 
"Israfel,"  "The  Sleeper,"  "Ulalume,"  and  the  earlier  "Al  Aaraaf,"  "Dream- 
land," and  "Fairyland."  The  second  phase,  the  denial  of  some  natural 
law,  includes  "The  City  in  the  Sea"  and  "The  Valley  of  Unrest."  The 
third,  the  supernatural  allegory,  contains  "The  Haunted  Palace"  and  "The 
Conqueror  Worm."  This  list  includes  a  majority  of  his  greatest  poems. 

"The  Raven"  is  the  dramatization  of  the  effect  of  his  belief  in  the 
supernatural  upon  a  poet  who  is  predisposed  by  nature  and  by  his  sur- 
roundings to  the  reception  of  abnormal  impressions.  The  scene  is  pre- 
pared by  the  tempest  outside;  the  bird  is  well  chosen,  and  the  natural 
glides  into  the  supernatural  so  that  the  transition  is  hardly  perceptible. 
It  is  based,  too,  on  one  of  the  deepest  impulses  of  humanity,  the  torment 
of  doubt  which  drives  the  lover  to  ask  the  fatal  question: 


3oo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Tell  this  soul  with  sorrow  laden  if,  within  the 

distant  Aidenn, 
It  shall  clasp  a  sainted  maiden  whom  the  angels 

name  Lenore— 

when  he  knows  the  answer  will  be  "Nevermore!"  A  lesser  artist  would 
have  made  the  next  stanza  with  its  vivid  defiance  of  the  raven  the  ending 
of  the  poem,  but  Poe  passed  from  this  climax  of  action  to  a  climax  of 
feeling  from  which  the  soul  of  the  lover  shall  never  be»»lifted.  Poe  be- 
lieved that  sorrow  at  the  loss  of  a  beautiful  woman  was  the  supreme  topic 
for  poetry,  and  certainly  no  one  has  surpassed  in  its  own  genre  this 
lyrical  portrait  of  the  spiritual  beauty  of  disaster. 

The  spirit  world  in  Poe's  poetry  is  not  a  place  of  reward  or  punish- 
ment. In  "Dreamland"  it  is  a  "peaceful  soothing  region"  for  those  who 
are  in  this  life  unhappy,  but  it  is  "out  of  Space,  out  of  Time."  In  "The 
Sleeper"  the  lover  does  not  wish  his  beloved  to  return  to  this  world. 
"Ulalume,"  one  of  his  finest  poems,  combines  the  supernatural  with  the 
struggle  of  a  soul  to  preserve  its  spiritual  integrity.  The  lover  has  almost 
yielded  to  the  passion  of  the  flesh,  symbolized  by  the  star,  Astarte  or 
Venus,  but  is  saved  by  Psyche,  representing  his  spiritual  nature,  who 
leads  him  to  the  tomb  of  his  lost  Ulalume.  If  Ulalume  represents  Virginia, 
who  had  satisfied  both  his  spiritual  and  physical  love,  the  poem  rep- 
resents Poe's  struggle  between  his  fidelity  to  her  memory  and  his  later 
loves  who  represented  only  his  passionate  nature.  It  is  dangerous,  of 
course,  to  read  too  exactly  into  such  a  conflict  a  personal  motive. 

The  supernatural  effect  in  "The  Valley  of  Unrest"  is  produced  by  a 
series  of  negations:  "Nothing  there  is  motionless"  except  the  element 
without  which  life  is  impossible,  the  air  itself.  Poe's  attitude  toward  sin 
is  reflected  in  the  change  of  its  earlier  title,  "The  Valley  Nis,"  "Nis" 
meaning  "sin"  inverted,  to  its  present  one.  There  is  no  moral  in  the 
present  poem  although  in  its  earlier  form  it  may  have  depicted  the 
eternal  restlessness  as  a  consequence  of  an  unknown  crime.  "The  City  in 
the  Sea"  also  began  as  "The  Doomed  City"  but  "the  good  and  the  bad 
and  the  worst  and  the  best"  have  equally  gone  "to  their  eternal  rest." 
But  what  makes  these  poems  important  is  the  skill  with  which  the  valley 
and  the  city  suggest  successfully  the  triumph  of  an  imaginative  concep- 
tion over  the  rules  of  reality. 

Poe  was  not  fond  of  allegory,  especially  by  other  writers,  and  dealt 
with  it  rarely  in  his  poetry.  "The  Haunted  Palace"  represents  the  decay 
of  a  human  soul  in  the  guise  of  the  destruction  of  a  palace,  but  the  beauty 
of  the  poem  lies  in  the  exquisite  harmony  of  the  verses,  beginning: 

In  the  greenest  of  our  valleys 
By  good  angels  tenanted, 

Once  a  fair  and  stately  palace- 
Radiant  palace— reared  its  head. 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL  30 1 

In  these  verses  he  defied  again  a  rule  of  versification  which  forbids  an 
unaccented  syllable  from  carrying  the  end  rime.  The  poet  who  could 
write 

And  round  about  his  home  the  glory 

That  blushed  and  bloomed, 

Is  but  a  dim  remembered  story 

Of  the  old  time  entombed, 

did  not  have  to  bother  about  rules.  Poe's  other  attempt  at  allegory,  "The 
Conqueror  Worm,"  makes  us  glad  he  did  not  touch  that  motive  often. 
There  is  little  beauty  in  the  verses  and  the  allegory  is  thrust  upon  the 
reader  at  the  close  of  the  poem. 

The  supernatural  was  not  Poe's  only  note,  of  course.  The  first  "To 
Helen"  and  "The  Coliseum"  represent  the  general  interest  in  classic 
themes  in  his  period.  The  sincerity  of  his  sonnet,  "To  My  Mother,"  and 
the  sheer  loveliness  of  "Annabel  Lee"  represent  the  normal  nature  of  a 
poet  who  needed  only  a  little  good  fortune  to  have  secured  happiness. 

He  was  true  to  his  own  definition  of  poetry,  "the  rhythmical  creation 
of  beauty,"  and  it  is  by  that  standard  that  it  must  be  judged.  He  believed 
that  a  poem  should  be  brief  and  after  "Al  Aaraaf"  he  wrote  no  more 
long  narratives.  His  one  dramatic  poem,  "Politian,"  of  which  he  printed 
only  the  poetic  portions,  was  hardly  a  success.  His  belief  that  poetry 
should  portray  the  ideal  led  him  to  change  the  scene  of  a  real  and  sordid 
tragedy,  laid  in  Frankfort,  Kentucky,  in  1825,  to  Rome  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  and  to  change  Politian,  the  revenger  of  the  betrayed  heroine, 
from  an  injured  husband  to  a  lover.  He  was  only  following  the  conven- 
tion of  the  period,  in  placing  such  a  tragedy  in  another  place  and  time. 

In  his  fiction  as  in  his  poetry  Poe  dealt  with  universal  rather  than,  as 
is  often  stated,  with  exotic  themes.  Some  of  his  stories  are  laid  in  his  own 
country,  for  example,  "The  Gold  Bug"  in  Charleston;  "The  Elk"  in 
Philadelphia;  "A  Tale  of  the  Ragged  Mountains"  near  Charlottesville; 
"Landor's  Cottage"  near  New  York  City.  But  concrete  localities  meant 
little  to  him;  he  worked  more  freely  when  he  was  unhampered  by  them, 
for  his  creations  lived  in  the  world  of  his  imagination.  Of  his  sixty-eight 
short  stories  about  thirty-six  may  be  called,  most  conveniently,  the  Ara- 
besques, to  use  his  own  words  in  the  title  of  his  volume  of  1840.  They 
appeal  to  the  human  faculty  of  wonder,  demanding  the  strange,  the  super- 
natural or  the  terrible.  Nearly  two-thirds  of  this  class  deal  with  Death.  The 
death  of  a  beautiful  woman  is  the  theme  of  "Ligeia,"  tinged  with  the  super- 
natural and  representing  also  that  struggle  of  a  human  soul  to  preserve 
her  identity,  which  is  one  of  Poe's  major  interests.  It  was  Poe's  favorite 
story  and  rightly.  His  art  never  excelled  the  powerful  climax  when  the 
soul  of  Ligeia  returns  from  death  to  seize  the  body  of  her  successor  and 
reclaim  her  place  by  her  husband's  side,  through  the  sheer  determination 
to  live.  In  "Eleonora"  the  relation  of  husband  and  wife  is  less  powerfully 


3o2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

indicated  but  the  tenderness  of  true  love  and  the  forgiveness  for  the 
lover's  remarriage  that  comes  like  an  immaterial  sigh  from  the  other  world 
is  exquisite  poetry  in  prose  form.  In  this  story  Poe  expressed  a  belief 
that  "The  question  is  not  yet  settled  whether  much  that  is  glorious, 
whether*  all  that  is  profound— does  not  spring  from  disease  of  thought— 
from  moods  of  mind  exalted  at  the  expense  of  the  general  intellect." 

When  the  mood  is  exalted  as  in  "Eleonora"  or  "Ligeia"  the  result  is 
the  artistry  of  emotion.  When  the  mood  is  horrible  as  in  "Berenice"  it 
escapes  the  control  of  the  intellect  and  the  result  is  unfortunate.  For 
Poe  did  not  write  ''Berenice"  without  knowing  that  he  was  passing  al- 
most beyond  the  limits  of  good  taste.  In  a  letter  written  in  1835  to  T.  W. 
White,  proprietor  of  the  Southern  Literary  Messenger,  he  defended 
"Berenice"  on  the  ground  that  readers  liked  "the  ludicrous  heightened 
into  the  grotesque;  the  fearful  coloured  into  the  horrible;  the  witty  ex- 
aggerated into  the  burlesque;  the  singular  wrought  out  into  the  strange 
and  mystical."  5  But  it  is  not  a  satisfactory  defence,  and  Poe's  lapse  in 
"Berenice"  or,  worse,  in  "The  Facts  in  the  Case  of  M.  Valdemar"  is  only 
one  more  proof  that  while  the  terrible  is  legitimate,  the  horrible  passes 
usually  out  of  the  realm  of  art.  But  among  the  Arabesques  there  are  some 
of  the  great  stories  of  the  world's  literature.  The  strange  figure  that 
stalks  through  "The  Masque  of  the  Red  Death";  the  terrible  foretaste  of 
death  in  "The  Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher";  the  living  thirst  for  revenge 
in  "Hop  Frog"  or  "The  Cask  of  Amontillado";  the  marvelous  picture  of 
the  struggle  of  William  Wilson  against  the  inexorable  command  that  the 
soul  must  preserve  its  spiritual  integrity;  these  are  only  a  few  of  the 
famous  stories  that  none  but  Poe  could  have  written.  The  unity  of  ef- 
fect, the  inevitability  of  the  climax,  the  variety  of  form,  the  magnificent 
phrasing,  are  among  his  gifts  to  the  short  story. 

Twenty-two  of  the  Arabesques  deal  with  the  supernatural.  The  phases 
which  appear  in  his  poetry  reappear  in  his  prose;  the  description  of  the 
spirit  world  in  "Shadow"  or  "Monos  and  Una";  the  denial  of  natural  law 
in  "Ligeia"  and  "The  Black  Cat";  allegory  in  "Metzengerstein."  There 
is  also  an  exaggeration  of  some  natural  law  until  it  passes  the  limits  of 
reason,  as  in  "Silence"  or  "The  Tell-Tale  Heart"  and  an  abnormal  con- 
nection between  the  seat  of  life  and  an  external  agency  as  in  "The  Oval 
Portrait."  Poe  knew  that  to  be  effective  the  supernatural  must  appeal  to 
the  most  powerful  impulse  in  human  nature,  self-preservation,  not  only 
of  physical  life  but  also  of  spiritual  life.  The  alternative  is  madness,  and 
with  the  fate  of  his  dead  brother  and  the  lingering  adolescence  of  his  sister 
before  him,  Poe's  constant  treatment  of  such  a  theme  must  have  taken 
courage.  It  is,  however,  a  great  theme,  and  Poe  not  only  developed 
variety  in  the  return  of  a  beloved  woman's  presence  in  "Ligeia"  or 
"Morella,"  but  also  followed  the  problem  of  identity  into  the  next  world. 

6  Original  autograph  MS  fragment,  Huntington  Library. 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL 


3°3 


In  "Monos  and  Una,'1  the  senses  lose  their  identity,  and  a  sixth  sense, 
duration,  takes  their  place  for  Memos  until  Una  joins  him  when  "the 
light  of  enduring  love"  illumines  their  new  life. 

The  mysticism  of  Poe  did  not  lead  to  the  absorption  of  the  individual 
in  God.  To  him,  that  would  be  "an  action  of  God  returning  upon  itself— a 
purposeless  and  futile  action.  Man  is  a  creature.  Creatures  are  thoughts 
of  God.  It  is  the  nature  of  Thought  to  be  irrevocable."  This  glorification 
of  the  individual's  responsibility  for  his  own  actions  points  forward  to 
its  dramatic  treatment  in  Moody  and  O'Neill.  Poe's  dramatic  sense  led 
him  to  the  creation  of  a  concrete  symbol  to  vitalize  the  supernatural  and 
gain  even  temporary  belief  in  the  reader's  mind.  That  is  why  the  voices 
of  the  dead  multitude  in  "Shadow"  or  the  image  of  the  plague  in  "The 
Masque  of  the  Red  Death"  or  the  white  figure  at  the  end  of  "Arthur 
Gordon  Pym"  are  so  powerful. 

Poe's  excursions  into  science  or  pseudo-science  belong  with  the 
Arabesques.  He  is  best  when  as  in  "A  Descent  into  the  Maelstrom,"  he 
builds  the  story  upon  the  mood  of  the  main  character.  "Hans  Phaal"  was 
only  a  brilliant  hoax  upon  voyages  to  the  moon,  but  there  is  an  imaginative 
treatment  which  lifts  it  out  of  the  category  of  mere  burlesque.  Poe  took 
up  contemporary  fads  like  galvanism  and  hypnotism  but  he  used  them  as 
a  vehicle  for  satire.  "Some  Words  with  a  Mummy"  is  a  satire  upon  so- 
called  progress,  and  he  paid  his  respects  to  the  Dial  with  vigor. 

There  is  no  sharp  line  between  the  Arabesques  and  the  Grotesques.  In 
the  latter,  satire  and  burlesque  do  not  have  the  saving  grace  of  imagina- 
tion. The  twenty-two  Grotesques  contain  certain  amusing  satires  of 
journalistic  hoaxes  and  publishing  puffery,  but  they  need  not  detain  us. 

There  are  only  six  of  the  Ratiocinative  or  detective  stories  and  of  these 
two,  "The  Oblong  Box"  and  "Thou  Art  the  Man,"  are  really  burlesques 
of  that  species.  But  the  four  masterpieces,  "The  Murders  in  the  Rue 
Morgue,"  "The  Mystery  of  Marie  Roget,"  "The  Gold  Bug"  and  "The 
Purloined  Letter,"  are  still  the  best  of  their  kind,  notwithstanding  thou- 
sands of  imitations.  The  reason  lies  in  the  fact  that  the  actors  are  not 
mere  names,  but  are  real  characters  and  have  real  motives.  They  are 
based  on  some  human  strength  or  weakness.  In  "The  Purloined  Letter," 
Dupin,  the  master  detective,  does  not  waste  his  time  upon  mere  mechani- 
cal measurements  nor  does  he  try  to  deceive  the  reader  by  leading  him 
on  false  trails,  as  is  so  often  done  by  Conan  Doyle  or  other  less  skilful 
writers.  Dupin  is  asked  by  the  Prefect  of  Police,  not  to  find  out  the  man 
who  has  stolen  the  letter,  for  he  is  known,  but  much  more  difficult,  to 
recover  it.  He  studies  the  character  of  the  thief,  M.  D ,  and  de- 
cides that  a  man  who  is  both  a  poet  and  a  mathematician  will  not  hide  the 
letter  in  any  ordinary  way.  He  visits  D 's  rooms,  sees  a  half-de- 
stroyed letter  carelessly  left  in  a  rack,  and,  following  the  train  of  thought 
D would  have  pursued,  knows  that  D in  his  turn  has  gambled 


3o4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

on  his  knowledge  of  police  methods  and  has  believed  they  would 
not  suspect  any  such  obvious  hiding  place.  Dupin  studies  the  letter,  but 
unlike  a  lesser  artist,  does  not  take  it  at  once.  He  pays  another  visit  with 
a  prepared  facsimile,  has  arranged  for  a  disturbance  in  the  street,  seizes 

the  moment  when  D goes  to  the  window,  and  recovers  the  letter. 

He  owes  D a  grudge,  and  dislikes  heartily  the  contemptible  way 

D has  been  using  his  possession  of  the  letter  to  blackmail  a  princess 

whom  Dupin  admires,  so  he  prefers  to  let  D -,  in  the  belief  that  he 

still  retains  the  letter,  proceed  to  his  political  ruin.  In  the  other  studies 
similar  analytic  methods  are  employed,  and  in  "The  Gold  Bug"  there  is 
a  cryptogram,  in  the  solving  of  which  Poe  excelled.  Surprise  has  often 
been  expressed  that  Poe,  having  devised  such  a  profitable  vein,  should 
have  neglected  to  work  it.  But  Poe  was  quite  aware  that  though  he  was 
the  best  in  this  field,  the  field  was  not  of  great  importance.  Others  could 
write  detective  stories;  he  alone  could  create  the  Arabesques.  It  is  not  so 
easy  to  see  why  he  continued  the  Grotesques.  He  must  have  deceived 
himself  concerning  their  importance  for  he  coupled  "The  Man  that  was 
Used  Up"  with  "The  Murders"  in  the  ill-fated  Prose  Romances  of  1843. 

Poe's  descriptive  stories,  "The  Landscape  Garden,"  expanded  into  l'The 
Domain  of  Arnheim,"  "Landor's  Cottage"  and  "The  Elk"  are  charming 
pictorial  revelations  of  natural  beauty.  They  are  chiefly  interesting  in  the 
disclosure  of  Poe's  interest  in  the  rearrangement  of  natural  objects  to  en- 
hance their  charm.  The  first  title  of  "The  Elk,"  "Morning  on  the  Wis- 
sahiccon,"  is  an  essay  rather  than  a  story  and  remains  a  tribute  to  a 
stream  which  Philadelphia  has  permitted  to  retain  its  loveliness. 

Harper's  advice  to  Poe  to  write  a  long  story  was  sound,  from  a  financial 
point  of  view,  but  after  two  attempts,  he  wisely  refrained.  Arthur  Gordon 
Pym  (1838)  was  an  account  of  the  adventures  of  a  stowaway,  starting 
from  Nantucket  and  surviving  the  horrors  of  mutiny,  starvation  and 
capture  by  natives  of  the  South  Seas,  based  largely  on  Morell's  Narrative 
of  Four  Voyages  to  the  South  Seas.  The  horrors  grow  tiresome  and  the 
book  is  saved  only  when  Poe  forgets  his  sources  and  paints  an  imaginary 
chasm,  to  which  an  immense  white  figure  welcomes  the  boat  and  its  two 
survivors.  "The  Journal  of  Julius  Rodman"  was  not  finished  by  Poe  G  and 
has  none  of  his  characteristics.  It  was  based  on  Irving's  Astoria  and  the 
history  of  the  Lewis  and  Clark  expedition,  but  is  one  of  the  least  im- 
portant of  his  works. 

For  both  his  poetry  and  short  stories,  Poe,  like  any  great  artist,  took 
suggestions  where  he  found  them,  but  he  always  made  the  result  his  own. 
Efforts  to  "derive"  him  from  English  and  Continental  sources  have  not 
been  successful.  The  best  way  to  appreciate  his  ability  is  to  study  his 
combination  of  the  two  sources  for  "Hop  Frog."  They  are,  first,  an  ex- 

'''  It  appeared  in  Burton's  Gentleman's  Magazine  (Jan.  to  June,  1840),  signed  "Editors 
G.  M." 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL 


3°5 


cerpt  from  Froissart 7  in  which  an  accident  at  the  court  of  Charles  VI 
burns  up  certain  of  his  courtiers  in  their  fancy  dress  as  satyrs,  and,  second, 
"Frogere,"  8  a  tale  of  the  revenge  of  a  jester  at  the  court  of  the  Emperor 
Paul  of  Russia.  The  merely  objective  names  become  living  human  beings, 
and  the  jester,  stung  bv  the  cruel  treatment,  not  of  himself  but  of  the 
woman  he  loves,  conceives  of  a  terrible  revenge.  Every  important  ele- 
ment in  the  story  is  orioinal  with  Poe. 

It  is  impossible  here  to  do  more  than  indicate  the  great  influence  of 
Poe,  both  in  his  native  land  and  in  foreign  countries.  Practically  every 
important  American  writer  of  fiction  has  learned  the  lessons  his  art  can 
teach.  Among  American  poets  in  the  later  nineteenth  century,  the  South- 
ern group,  Hayne,  Lanier,  Tabb  and  Cawein  show  his  influence  in  the 
use  of  abstractions  and  in  a  rapturous  and  at  times  mystical  quality  as 
well  as  a  definite  imitation  in  the  verse  techniques  of  a  more  obvious 
nature.  Stedman  in  the  East  was  not  only  a  disciple  but  his  criticism  of 
Poe  was  epoch  making.  Moody's  Masque  of  Judgment  illustrates  Poe's 
influence  in  the  transition  between  the  centuries.  To  mention  only  a  few 
American  poets  of  the  twentieth  century,  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson 
wrote  his  sonnet  on  Poe  as  early  as  1 894,  kept  his  photograph  on  his  wall, 
and  reveals  his  influence  in  such  powerful  studies  of  the  tragedy  of  a 
divided  personality  as  "Flammonde"  and  "Richard  Cory."  "Demos"  or 
"Dionysius  in  Doubt"  are  only  two  of  the  poems  in  which  Robinson,  like 
Poe,  satirizes  "the  mob."  Robert  Frost  learned  clarity  from  studying 
Poe.9  Dubose  Heyward's  "Edgar  Allan  Poe"  is  one  of  the  finest  tributes 
to  the  poet  who, 

Raised  his  face  and  there 
Shone  the  agony  that  those 
Loved  of  God  must  bear. 

Poe  was  the  great  idol  of  Vachel  Lindsay,10  and  the  list  might  easily 
be  extended. 

Poe's  recognition  was  wide  in  England  in  his  own  lifetime,  even  if  it 
sometimes  went  astray,  as  in  the  discussion  of  Arthur  Gordon  Pym  and 
'The  Facts  in  the  Case  of  M.  Valdemar,"  as  though  they  were  real 
episodes.  Swinburne's  appreciation  of  Poe  is  shown  often  in  his  letters 
and  published  documents,  as  in  the  Poe  Memorial  Volume.11  Poe's  in- 
fluence has  not  been  so  apparent,  but  Rossetti  acknowledged  the  inspira- 
tion for  "The  Blessed  Damozel"  and  Stevenson  for  Treasure  Island.  Conan 
Doyle's  large  debt  to  Poe  is  obvious. 

7  Poe  probably  read  the  episode  in  the  Broadway  Journal,  Vol.  1   (Feb.,  1845),  p.  71. 

8  New  Monthly  Magazine,  of  London,  Vol.  28   (1830),  pp.  491-496. 

9  Statement  to  present  writer. 

10  Edgar  Lee  Masters,  Vachel  Lindsay  (1935),  pp.  254-255. 

11  See  also  Cecil  Lang,  "Swinburne  and  American  Literature,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  19 
(Jan.,  1948),  pp.  336-337- 


3o6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Volumes  have  been  written  upon  his  influence  in  France,12  beginning 
with  the  translations  of  his  individual  tales  in  1845  and  the  elaborate 
criticism  of  E.  D.  Forgues  in  the  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes  in  1846.  Poe 
was  fortunate  in  having  his  short  stories  translated  by  Charles  Baudelaire, 
first  individually  and  then  in  two  volumes,  Histoires  Extraordinaire* 
(1856),  and  Nouvelles  Histoires  Extraordinaires  (1857).  Les  Poemes 
d'Edgar  Poe  were  translated  by  Stephane  Mallarme  in  rhythmic  prose  in 
1888,  prefaced  by  his  sonnet  to  Poe.  These  translations  have  constantly 
been  reprinted  and  have  inspired  many  others.  Poe's  influence  on  the 
Parnassians  and  through  Mallarme  on  the  Symbolists  was  powerful  but 
extended  to  lengths  of  which  Poe  himself  would  not  have  approved. 
Through  Emile  Gaboriau  in  the  detective  story  and  through  Jules  Verne 
in  the  story  of  science,  Poe's  influence  was  extended.  More  important, 
Maeterlinck's  Pelleas  et  Melisande  owes  much  to  "The  Fall  of  the  House 
of  Usher." 

Poe's  real  influence  in  Spain  began  in  1858  with  translations  from 
Baudelaire  and  soon  Spaniards  fyegan  to  translate  the  tales  from  the  orig- 
inals. But  there  was  no  such  great  influence  upon  Spanish  literature  in 
Spain  as  upon  the  French.  In  Spanish  America,  however,  the  influence  of 
the  modernist  movement  in  poetry  led  to  the  study  of  Baudelaire, 
Verlaine,  LeConte  de  Lisle  and  others  and  then  through  them  to  their 
model,  Poe.  The  greatest  lyric  poet  of  Spanish  America,  Ruben  Dario  of 
Nicaragua,  through  his  work  "Los  Raros"  (The  Choice  Ones)  did  a 
great  deal  to  extend  Poe's  influence,  and  throughout  Spanish  America 
there  has  grown  up  a  group  of  poets  who  acknowledge  him  as  a  master. 

Poe's  influence  in  Russia  also  stems  from  translations  from  the  French 
Symbolists,  although  sporadic  translations  from  other  sources  may  have 
appeared  as  early  as  1848.  The  impulse  was  strengthened  by  the  publica- 
tion of  translations  from  Poe  such  as  "The  Black  Cat"  and  "The  Tell-Tale 
Heart"  in  Dostojevsky's  own  periodical,  Time,  in  1861.  The  most  im- 
portant critical  treatments  were  Balmont's  Poe's  Ballads  and  Fancies 
(1885),  including  translations  of  many  poems  till  then  unknown  in 
Russia,  and  Brusov's  Edgar  Poe,  Fidl  Collection  of  Poems  and  Verses  in 
1926.  The  phase  of  Poe's  work  most  emphasized  in  Russia  was  his  es- 
tablishment of  the  moods  of  hallucination,  premonition  and  fear,  super- 
natural fascination  and  studies  of  death.  Curiously,  the  vogue  of  Poe 
has  fallen  a  prey  to  Soviet  influence— to  which  he  is  repellent. 

The  centenary  of  his  death  in  1949  was  made  the  occasion  of  many 
tributes  to  his  greatness.  His  native  country  in  which  he  was  never  given 
a  public  testimonial,  during  his  lifetime,  organized  celebrations  from 
Boston  to  Texas,  and  a  "Poe  Stamp'1  was  issued  by  the  United  States  Post 
Office.  El  Nacional  of  Caracas,  Venezuela,  devoted  an  entire  front  page 
of  the  issue  of  October  7  to  an  article  on  Poe,  and  the  Argentine  Republic, 

1 2  See  Bibliography  for  the  principal  references. 


BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL 


307 


through  its  diplomatic  representatives,  requested  a  loan  of  material  for 
its  exhibition. 

Poe's  criticism  will  be  discussed  in  its  relation  to  the  development  of 
that  art  in  the  United  States.  There  he  is  concerned  often  with  concrete 
American  ideas.  But  the  poetry  and  the  fiction  are  prompted  also,  less 
tangibly  perhaps^  by  the  age  and  place  in  which  he  lived.  While  the 
pioneers  were  conquering  virgin  forests,  and  pushing  westward,  Poe  was 
pioneering  in  the  outer  limits  of  the  human  soul.  As  he  said  in  ''Eldorado" 
in  the  year  of  his  death, 

Over  the  Mountains 

Of  the  Moon, 
Down  the  Valley  of  the  Shadow, 

Ride,  boldly,  ride, 

The  Shade  replied,— 
If  you  seek  for  Eldorado. 

He  was  rewarded  bv  visions  of  beauty  which  he  caught  beyond  the 
mountains  of  illusion  before  others  had  seen  them,  and  which  his  mastery 
of  the  resources  of  the  English   tongue  fixed   imperishably  upon   the 

literature  of  the  world. 

*         *         * 

Among  the  writers  of  fiction  who  continued  the  story  of  the  super- 
natural and  of  science,  in  the  manner  of  Poe,  the  most  important  was 
Fitz-James  O'Brien  (1828-62),  an  Irish-American  who  came  here  in  1852 
and  fell  fighting  for  the  Union  in  1862.  His  originality  of  plot  was  re- 
markable. In  "The  Diamond  Lens"  13  a  microscopist  creates  from  a  dia- 
mond the  most  powerful  lens  in  the  world.  Turning  it  upon  a  drop  of 
water,  he  sees  a  beautiful  female  with  whom  he  falls  in  love.  The  analysis 
of  his  emotions  as  he  realizes  that  the  drop  must  soon  evaporate  lifts  the 
story  above  the  usual  pseudo-scientific  tale,  for  it  portrays,  without  com- 
ment, the  helplessness  of  the  most  expert  scientist  in  one  field  before  the 
laws  of  nature  in  another.  Even  better  is  "What  Was  It?"  14  a  story  of  the 
supernatural.  The  narrator  tells  of  a  being  which  drops  on  his  chest  while 
he  lies  in  bed.  When  he  conquers  the  animal,  he  is  amazed  to  find  that 
while  he  can  hear  its  rapid  breathing  and  touch  it,  he  can  see  nothing. 
O'Brien  apparently  realized  that  reality  is  best  secured  when  more  than 
one  sense  acts,  but  the  most  important,  that  of  sight,  remains  inactive. 
The  attempts  to  obtain  a  knowledge  of  the  visitor,  culminating  in  the 
taking  of  a  plaster  cast  of  the  invisible  little  animal,  are  original  and  di- 
verting. It  finally  dies  as  it  will  eat  no  food.  A  similar  being  was  created 
by  Maupassant  long  afterward  in  "Le  Horla,"  but  in  the  realistic  treat- 
ment of  the  wonderful  O'Brien  surpassed  him. 

13  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  1  (Jan.,  1858),  pp.  354-367. 

14  Harper's  Magazine,  Vol.  18  (March,  1859),  pp.  504-509. 


Chapter  19 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE 

Hawthorne's  brief  stay  at  Brook  Farm  represents  his  only  relation  to  the 
reform  projects  of  the  Transcendentalists.  Despite  his  constant  treatment 
of  sin  and  crime,  he  rarely,  except  in  his  introductions,  points  a  moral  in 
his  fiction.  He  was  not  concerned  with  social  or  political  reforms,  and 
even  with  individuals,  he  is  interested  in  their  crimes  as  material  for  drama 
rather  than  as  stepping  stones  to  reformation. 

He  was  born  at  Salem,  Massachusetts,  July  4,  1804,  °f  Puritan  stock. 
One  of  his  ancestors,  Judge  Hathorne,1  had  condemned  witches  to 
death,  and  his  father  was  a  sea  captain,  who  died  in  1808  and  left  his 
family  to  be  brought  up  in  the  rigid  discipline  of  a  Puritan  household. 
He  graduated  from  Bowdoin  College,  Maine,  in  1825,  having  Longfellow 
as  a  classmate  and  making  a  warm  friendship  with  Franklin  Pierce,  an  as- 
sociation that  helped  to  shape  his  later  career.  He  was  not  distinguished 
at  college  and  joined,  with  Pierce,  the  more  democratic  of  the  two  literary 
societies,  while  Longfellow  belonged  to  the  other.  When  he  was  summoned 
to  the  president's  office,  a  sentence  from  a  letter  to  his  mother  2  may 
dissipate  the  persistent  legend  of  his  lonely  and  unsocial  nature:  ". .  .  When 
the  President  asked  what  we  played  for,  I  thought  it  proper  to  inform 
him  it  was  50  cts.  although  it  happened  to  be  a  quart  of  wine,  but  if  I  had 
told  him  of  that  he  would  probably  have  fined  me  for  having  a  blow. 
There  was  no  untruth  in  the  case,  as  the  wine  cost  fifty  cts." 

Such  mild  dissipation  indicates  the  rigor  of  the  discipline  of  the  small 
New  Fngland  college.  But  it  is  ironic  that  Poe,  who  was  never  sum- 
moned for  discipline  at  the  University  of  Virginia,  should  have  the  legend 
of  dismissal  follow  him  for  years,  while  all  that  remains  of  Hawthorne's 
college  pranks  is  a  certain  realism  in  the  description  of  the  tavern  in 
Fansharwe.  This  romance,  Hawthorne's  first  published  work  (1828),  is 

1  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  seems  to  have  been  the  first  to  spell  his  surname 
"Hawthorne." 

2  May  30,  1882,  G.  E.  Woodberry,  Hawthorne  (1902),  p.  20. 

308 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE  309 

laid  in  and  near  a  college,  evidently  Bowdoin.  Fanshaive  has  the  weakness 
of  romantic  melodrama.  Hawthorne  was  capable  of  building  up  a  fair 
amount  of  suspense  in  the  "mysterious  stranger"  who  persuades  Ellen 
Langdon  to  trust  him  to  guide  her  to  her  father,  but  after  Fanshawe 
saves  her,  the  story  is  brought  to  an  end  by  the  author,  not  by  the  char- 
acters. Hawthorne  tried  later  to  suppress  the  book. 

Hawthorne's  early  stories  and  sketches,  many  of  which  he  did  not  in- 
clude in  his  first  collection,  Twice  Told  Tales  (1837),  reveal  his  industry 
and  his  determination  to  write.  If  he  grew  lonely  in  his  home  atmosphere, 
he  travelled  in  New  England  and  in  New  York,  as  far  as  Niagara,  of 
which  he  gives  a  vivid  portrayal  in  "My  Visit  to  Niagara."  3  In  this,  as  in 
other  travel  sketches,  Hawthorne  was  concerned  with  his  own  impres- 
sions—"the  spot  so  famous  was  all  my  own."  In  his  "An  Ontario  Steam- 
boat," he  is  most  interested  in  the  lowest  class  of  travelers,  and  his  sym- 
pathy is  with  them  in  their  hardships.  The  passengers  on  the  other  decks 
were,  he  felt,  too  much  alike  to  be  significant.  Some  of  these  sketches 
appeared  in  The  America?!  Magazine  of  Useful  and  Entertaining  Knowl- 
edge, of  which  he  was  the  editor  in  Boston  for  a  brief  period  beginning 
early  in  1836.  In  general  his  biographical  sketches  dealt  with  American 
history,  of  which  he  was  an  omnivorous  reader.  He  was  preparing  him- 
self for  his  later  work  as  well  as  providing  for  the  present,  just  as  Scott 
had  spent  his  boyhood  poring  over  Scottish  history  or  Dickens  had 
wandered  over  the  streets  of  London. 

Fortunately  he  did  not  have  to  depend  entirely  on  the  scanty  remunera- 
tion he  received  from  the  periodicals  or  the  annuals  like  The  Token.  He 
had  a  small  income,  and  yet  he  naturally  felt  restive  at  his  lack  of  progress, 
while  one  classmate,  Longfellow,  became  successively  a  member  of  the 
Bowdoin  and  Harvard  faculties,  and  others  like  Pierce  were  winning 
their  way  at  law.  Yet  he  did  not  sign  his  name  to  these  early  sketches, 
probably  because  of  that  high  critical  standard  which  he  applied  to  his 
own  work.  For  his  first  and  second  collections  of  short  stories,  Twice 
Told  Tales  (1837  and  1842)  he  had  the  usual  difficulty  in  obtaining  a 
publisher.  His  satire  on  publishers  in  "The  Devil  in  Manuscript"  4  reveals 
his  disappointments.  Twice  Told  Tales  at  first  encountered,  to  use 
Hawthorne's  own  words  in  his  introduction  to  the  reprinted  edition  in 
1 85 1,  "a  sort  of  kindly,  but  calm  and  very  limited  attention."  Longfellow's 
graceful  tribute  in  the  North  American  Review  in  July,  1837,  in  which 
he  hailed  the  Tales  as  coming  "from  the  hand  of  a  man  of  genius,"  who 
though  writing  in  prose  was  a  poet,  whose  tales  were  national  in  char- 
acter, and  whose  style  is  "as  clear  as  running  waters,"  helped  in  establish- 
ing Hawthorne's  reputation.  But  it  became  necessary  to  earn  a  living 
and  through  Bancroft's  influence  he  was  appointed  Weigher  in  the  Boston 

3  New  England  Magazine,  Vol.  8  (1835),  pp.  91-96. 

4  New  England  Magazine,  Vol.  9  (Nov.,  1835),  pp.  340-345. 


3io  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Custom  House  in  1839  and  remained  until  1841  when  the  Democrats 
went  out  of  office.  Though  welcome,  this  office  became,  like  his  later 
positions,  an  interruption  to  his  writing.  During  1837  and  again  in  1838 
fourteen  stories  had  appeared,  while  only  three  were  published  in  1839, 
one  in  1840  and  none  in  1841. 

Hawthorne's  stay  at  Brook  Farm,  beginning  in  1841,  was  unsatisfactory. 
A  letter  to  George  Hillard  in  July,  1841,  reveals  how  the  manual  labor 
made  it  impossible  for  him  to  write,  and  his  investment  of  one  thousand 
dollars  was  lost.  Leaving  the  farm,  he  married  Sophia  Peabody  July  9, 
1842,  and  went  to  live  at  the  Old  Manse  in  Concord,  where  Emerson  had 
written  "Nature."  Sophia  Hawthorne  was  a  great  force  in  her  husband's 
life  and  provided  him  with  that  encouragement  and  criticism  which  he 
needed.  Herself  a  painter,  who  had  to  wait  for  the  proper  light,  she 
speaks,  in  a  letter  to  her  mother  in  1844,  °f  ms  creative  processes: 

He  waits  upon  the  light  in  such  a  purely  simple  way  that  I  do  not  wonder  at 
the  perfection  of  each  of  his  stories.  Of  several  sketches,  first  one  and  then 
another  come  up  to  be  clothed  with  language,  after  their  own  will  and  pleasure. 
...  I  think  it  is  in  this  way  that  he  comes  to  be  so  void  of  extravagance  in  his 
style  and  material.  He  does  not  meddle  with  the  clear  true  picture  that  is 
painted  on  his  mind.  He  lifts  the  curtain,  and  we  see  a  microcosm  of  nature, 
so  cunningly  portrayed  that  truth  itself  seems  to  have  been  the  agent  of  its 
appearance.5 

The  next  few  years  were  difficult.  Although  he  worked  hard  he  could 
not  make  a  living  by  writing.  His  second  series  of  Twice  Told  Tales 
(1842)  had  made  nothing;  payments  for  his  stories  in  periodicals  were 
delayed  for  months;  worse  still  he  began  to  lose  confidence  in  himself. 
In  a  letter  to  his  friend,  G.  S.  Hillard,  in  March,  1844,  he  despaired  of 
selling  anything  but  textbooks  and  other  hackwork.  In  1846  he  succeeded 
in  having  Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse  published,  but  in  the  first  sketch, 
"The  Old  Manse,"  he  states  that  it  is  the  last  collection  of  that  kind  he 
will  put  forth.  "Unless  I  could  do  better,"  he  said,  "I  have  done  enough 
in  this  kind."  The  entire  chapter  deserves  study  for  its  illustration  of  his 
philosophy  of  composition.  "Nor  am  I  nor  have  I  ever  been,  one  of  those 
supremely  hospitable  people  who  serve  up  their  own  hearts,  delicately 
fried,  with  brain  sauce,  as  a  tidbit  for  their  beloved  public."  His  picture 
of  the  fragrant  white  pond-lily  growing  out  of  the  black  mud  where 
the  slimy  animals  lurk,  reveals  his  recognition  of  the  beauty  growing  out 
of  evil,  in  which  he  points  forward  to  Eugene  O'Neill.  In  this  introduc- 
tion he  tells  of  his  excursions  with  Thoreau  and  E'Jery  Channing.  He 
admired  Emerson  as  a  poet  of  deep  beauty  and  understanding,  but  thought 
nothing  of  him  as  a  philosopher.  Hawthorne  did  publish  one  more  col- 
lection of  short  stories,  The  Snow  Image  and  Other  Twice  Told  Tales 

•Sec  Rose  Hawthorne  Lathrop,  Memories  of  Hawthorne  (1897),  pp.  70-71. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE  311 

( 1 851),  but  this  was  largely  a  gathering  together  of  earlier  material,  only 
four  of  the  sketches  dating  from  1849  or  1850. 

Viewed  as  a  whole,  Hawthorne's  short  stories  reveal  certain  develop- 
ments which  made  his  abandonment  of  the  form  a  happy  circumstance. 
Disregarding  biographical  and  travel  sketches,  of  the  eighty-three  tales, 
twenty-nine  are  in  manner  clearly  essays.  Studying  his  short  stories 
chronologically,  the  tendency  to  write  essays  increased;  the  supernatural 
stories  decreased;  the  story  of  colonial  history  vanished.6  Hawthorne  was 
best  when  he  dealt  with  the  effects  of  crime  upon  a  sinner,  and  when  he 
placed  this  tragedy  in  a  supernatural  atmosphere  and  laid  the  scene  in 
the  past  of  New  England,  he  wrote  his  masterpieces.  "Howe's  Masquer- 
ade," "Edward  Randolph's  Portrait,"  "Old  Esther  Dudley,"  "The  White 
Old  Maid,"  "The  Snow  Image,"  "The  Birthmark,"  "The  Gray  Cham- 
pion," "Rappaccini's  Daughter,"  in  which  two  at  least  of  these  elements 
appear,  are  the  stories  that  we  remember  best. 

The  Democrats  came  back  into  office  in  1845  and  Hawthorne  became 
Surveyor  of  the  Custom  House  in  Salem  in  March,  1846,  the  salary  of 
twelve  hundred  dollars  being  more  than  welcome.  But  his  life  there  is 
revealed  in  the  Introduction  to  The  Scarlet  Letter.  It  was,  as  he  said,  as 
though  a  gift,  a  faculty— if  it  had  not  departed,  had  been  suspended.  It 
was  therefore  a  fortunate  event  for  him  and  for  our  literature  that  Haw- 
thorne lost  his  office  when  the  Whigs  came  back,  for  the  last  time,  in 
1849.  Hawthorne  resented  bitterly  not  so  much  his  removal,  as  the  lack 
of  interest  his  Salem  neighbors  took  in  his  retention,  and  the  unfair 
charges  of  political  activity  brought  by  his  enemies.  As  usual  Sophia 
Hawthorne  saw  clearly  what  was  best  for  him  and  when  he  told  her  of 
the  final  decision,  she  replied,  "Oh,  then  you  can  write  your  book,"  and 
produced  her  savings  that  made  some  leisure  possible.  He  was  helped,  too, 
by  G.  S.  Hillard  and  other  friends,  through  a  loan  which  he  repaid  with 
interest  when  he  later  secured  the  Liverpool  consulate.7 
./The  Scarlet  Letter  was  finished  in  February,  1850,  and  published  in 
April.  Hawthorne  tasted  for  the  first  time  a  critical  and  popular  success. 
The  greatness  of  The  Scarlet  Letter  lies  in  the  dramatic  plot,  the  analysis 
of  the  characters,  the  contrast  between  them  and  the  background  of 
Puritan  strength  and  weakness.  The  drama  begins  at  once  with  the  strik- 
ing scene  in  which  Hester  Prynne  is  brought  to  public  punishment  for 
her  sin.  It  is  like  the  lifting  of  a  curtain  on  the  first  act  of  a  tragedy.  The 
protection  which  she  feels  that  the  crowd  affords  her  against  the  gaze  of 
her  husband,  the  choice  of  the  minister  Arthur  Dimmesdale,  the  partner 
of  her  sin,  to  exhort  her  to  disclose  the  name  of  little  Pearl's  father,  the 

6  In  The  Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse  (1846),  the  only  one,  "Roger  Malvin's  Burial," 
had  been  published  in  1832,  and  in  The  Snow  Image  and  Other  Twice  Told  Tales 
(1851),  the  only  one,  "My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux,"  had  appeared  in  1832. 

7  Letter  to  Hillard,  December  9,  1853.  Writings  (1904),  Old  Manse  Edition,  Vol. 
17,  pp.  436-37. 


3i2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

oath  of  secrecy  which  Roger  Chillingsworth  imposes  upon  her,  bring 
down  that  curtain  on  the  first  act  after  an  exposition  masterly  in  its 
lomc.  Through  the  novel  the  drama  never  flags.  Pearl's  first  meeting  with 
her  father,  when  Hester  defies  the  authorities  to  take  her  from  her 
mother:  the  midnight  slathering;  of  the  four  main  characters  at  the  scaf- 
fold,  with  the  appearance  of  the  letter  "A"  in  the  sky;  the  intensity  of 
the  meeting  of  Hester  and  Arthur  in  the  woods;  the  final  confession  of 
Dimmesdale  with  Hester  on  the  scaffold  and  his  death;  all  these  events 
move  on  relentlessly  to  the  destined  end.  The  novel  meets  the  highest 
test  of  great  drama;  the  tragedy  purges  its  audience  through  pity  and 
sympathy.  Illicit  passion  is  often  the  excuse  for  sentimentality  but  if  it  is 
ever  dignified  it  is  in  The  Scarlet  Letter.  There  are  no  details  of  the  sin; 
it  is  the  effect  of  the  sin  upon  the  characters  with  which  Hawthorne  is 
concerned.  Hester  is  the  stronger  character;  she  accepts  her  own  full 
share  in  the  adultery,  and  in  the  exquisite  scene  in  the  woods,  where  the 
rebirth  of  their  love  is  set  within  the  radiant  unmoral  sympathy  of  na- 
ture, it  is  she  who  proposes  their  flight  from  the  revenge  of  her  husband, 
which  is  killing  her  lover  in  body  and  soul.  It  was  Hawthorne's  insight 
that  made  Hester  pursue  her  course  without  regard  for  her  obligations 
to  her  husband;  she  even  hates  him  for  their  earlier  illusion  and  loveless 
marriage.  Dimmesdale  is  naturally  torn  between  his  sacred  office  and  his 
passion,  and  his  final  rejection  of  flight  and  his  public  confession  of  guilt 
even  though  it  wrecks  their  happiness  is  just  as  logical  as  her  unques- 
tioned loyalty  to  their  love.  She  has  won  back  through  her  charity  and 
devotion  to  others  her  own  self-respect,  but  she  is  willing  to  fling  it  away 
without  regret. 

Hawthorne  had  the  idea  of  The  Scarlet  Letter  for  some  time  in  his 
mind.  He  found  his  original  inspiration  in  John  Winthrop's  Journal,  in 
the  description  of  the  punishment  of  Mary  Latham;  and  in  "Endicott  and 
the  Red  Cross"  (1837),  he  had  spoken  of  "a  young  woman  with  no  mean 
share  of  beauty,  whose  doom  it  was  to  wear  the  letter  'A'  on  the  breast 
of  her  gown  . .  .  sporting  with  her  infamy,  the  lost  and  desperate  creature 
had  embroidered  the  fatal  token  in  scarlet  cloth,  with  golden  thread  and 
the  nicest  art  of  needlework."  Hawthorne's  own  account  of  the  finding 
of  the  Scarlet  Letter  in  the  Custom  House  of  Salem  may  be  looked  upon 
as  fanciful.  Many  and  various  are  the  thoughts  the  letter  suggests,  the 
sidelights  it  throws  upon  human  nature,  the  ways  in  which  it  links  the 
supernatural  to  the  natural.  Hawthorne  suggests  delicately  the  effect  it 
had  upon  Hester  Prynne,  upon  Arthur  Dimmesdale,  and  upon  the  people, 
and  then  in  the  following  passage  describes  a  dramatic  relation  between 
the  sinner,  the  effect  of  the  sin,  and  the  symbol  of  the  sin,  unsurpassed 
in  English  literature: 

But  that  first  object  of  which  Pearl  seemed  to  become  aware  was— shall  we 
say  it— the  scarlet  letter  on  Hester's  bosom.  One  day  as  her  mother  stooped  over 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE  313 

the  cradle,  the  infant's  eyes  had  been  caught  by  the  glimmering  of  the  golden 
embroidery  about  the  letter;  and,  putting  up  her  little  hand,  she  grasped  at  it, 
smiling,  not  doubtfully,  but  with  a  decided  gleam  that  gave  her  face  the  look 
of  a  much  older  child.  Then,  gasping  for  breath,  did  Hester  Prynne  clutch 
the  fatal  token,  instinctively  endeavouring  to  tear  it  away;  so  infinite  was  the 
torture  inflicted  by  the  intelligent  touch  of  Pearl's  baby  hand.  Again,  as  if 
her  mother's  agonized  gesture  were  meant  only  to  make  sport  for  her,  did 
little  Pearl  look  into  her  eyes  and  smile! 


As  usual,  Hawthorne,  without  mentioning  it,  provides  a  possible  natural 
explanation.  The  first  color  a  child  notices  is  red,  the  second  yellow,  so 
that  the  action  of  Pearl  may  have  been  a  normal  one.  But  Hawthorne  has 
suggested  a  mystic  influence  in  which  we  may  prefer  to  believe.  He  does 
not  drawT  either,  in  so  many  words,  the  moral  lesson  of  The  Scarlet  Letter. 
Ij;  is  a-stud^-in  the  futility  of  human  punishment.  The  punishment  of 
society  upon  Hester  Prynne  was  useless;  her  spiritual  growth  came  from 
within.  Dimmesdale's  self-imposed  penances  were  hypocritical  attempts 
to  avoid  sharing  his  guilt  with  Hester.  Chillingworth's  revenge,  that  of 
one  individual  upon  another,  was  futile  because  his  victim  escaped  him, 
and  his  revenge  left  his  own  life  without  meaning.  ,. — 

Hawthorne  took  a  small  red  house  on  the  road  between  Lenox  and 
Stockbridge,  Massachusetts,  in  the  spring  of  1850,  and  lived  there  until 
the  autumn  of  1851.  It  looked  out  on  Lake  Mak-kee-nac  and  the  moun- 
tains rising  over  the  lake.  His  associations  with  Longfellow,  Holmes, 
Catherine  Sedgwick,  and  Melville,  who  had  homes  or  summer  places 
here,  was  probably  a  pleasant  substitution  for  the  atmosphere  of  the 
Salem  Custom  House.  The  house  was  burned  in  1890  but  a  tablet  records 
the  name,  "Tanglewood,"  from  which  some  of  Hawthorne's  stories  for 
children  took  their  name.  Here  he  wrote  The  House  of  the  Seven  Gables 
(1851)  and  A  Wonder  Book  (1852).  After  a  stay  at  West  Newton,  the 
family  returned  to  Concord,  living  at  "The  Wayside." 

Although  there  was  no  one  actual  house  which  was  made  the  scene  of 
The  House  of  the  Seven  Gables,  the  story  was  based  on  family  tradition 
and  the  name  of  a  real  Judge  Pyncheon  was  unconsciously  used.  Haw- 
thorne states  in  his  Introduction  that  it  is  a  romance  rather  than  a  novel, 
and  that  he  intends  to  take  liberties  with  facts.  The  story  opens  with  no 
dramatic  scene,  as  The  Scarlet  Letter  did,  but  with  a  slow  essay-like  de- 
velopment of  the  history  of  the  house  and  the  Pyncheon  family.  The 
first  note  of  drama  comes  from  the  past  in  the  death  scene  of  Colonel 
Pyncheon,  an  ancestor  of  witchcraft  days.  Colonel  Pyncheon  has  been 
instrumental  in  having  an  old  man,  Matthew  Maule,  persecuted  as  a  wizard, 
and  has  taken  some  property  which  belonged  to  Maule.  Maule  curses 
him  on  the  scaffold,  telling  him  that  "God  will  give  him  blood  to  drink." 
Of  the  death  of  Colonel  Pyncheon,  Hawthorne  writes: 


3i4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

There  is  a  tradition,  only  worth  alluding  to,  as  lending  a  tinge  of  superstitious 
awe  to  a  scene  gloomy  enough  without  it,  that  a  voice  spoke  loudly  among 
the  guests,  the  tones  of  which  were  those  of  old  Matthew  Maule,  the  executed 
wizard,  saying  "God  hath  given  him  blood  to  drink." 

Again,  as  in  the  case  of  The  Scarlet  Letter,  Hawthorne  derived  his 
inspiration  from  colonial  history.  In  Robert  Calef's  More  Wonders  of  the 
Invisible  World,  published  in  1700  as  a  reply  to  Cotton  Mather's  Wonders 
of  the  Invisible  World,  a  record  is  given  of  the  trial  of  Sarah  Good,  on 
June  }o,  1692,  one  of  those  accused  of  having  converse  with  the  devil. 
Calef  tells  us  that  one  of  the  magistrates,  Noyes,  urged  her  to  confess, 
saving  she  was  a  witch.  She  replied,  "You  are  a  liar,— I  am  no  more  a  witch 
than  you  are  a  wizard,  and  if  you  take  away  my  life,  God  will  give  you 
blood  to  drink."  Judge  Hathorne  was  sitting  on  the  bench. 

The  main  story  opens  with  the  establishment  of  the  scene  and  the 
character  of  Hepzibah  Pyncheon,  the  old  maid  who  has  been  forced  by 
necessity  to  open  a  "cent-shop"  to  make  a  living.  Very  soon  the  contrasts 
between  her  hapless  gentility  and  the  vigor  or  charm  of  the  other  char- 
acters like  Holgrave,  the  daguerreotypist,  and  Phoebe  Pyncheon,  her 
young  cousin,  reveal  Hawthorne's  preference  for  democracy.  The  villain 
of  the  story,  Judge  Pyncheon,  is  a  man  made  up  of  the  institutions  which 
he  dominates.  He  is  one  who  possesses  vast  ability  in  grasping  and  ap- 
propriating "the  big,  heavy,  solid  unrealities,  such  as  gold,  landed  estate, 
offices  of  trust  and  emolument,  and  public  honors."  The  drama  unfolds, 
unified  by  the  motive  of  the  curse  of  Matthew  Maule,  and  gathering 
momentum  through  the  vivid  story  of  an  ancestress,  Alice  Pyncheon,  and 
the  post-hypnotic  spell  by  which  her  life  is  controlled  by  a  grandson  of 
Matthew  Maule.  Hawthorne  spoke  of  the  entire  story  as  a  drama,  and 
the  conflicts  which  are  its  life  are  provided  by  the  flight  of  Hepzibah  and 
her  brother,  Clifford,  who  has  returned  after  his  long  false  imprisonment 
for  murder;  the  death  of  Judge  Pyncheon  who  has  come  to  persecute 
Clifford  and  who  dies  in  the  parlor  of  the  old  house  through  the  same 
curse,  or  apoplexy,  whichever  the  reader  chooses  to  believe.  For  Haw- 
thorne,  as  ever,  assumes  no  responsibility  for  the  supernatural,  and  the 
ghostly  gathering  that  surrounds  the  dying  figure  he  insists  "must  by 
rio  means  be  considered  as  forming  an  actual  portion  of  our  story."  The 
plot  of  the  romance  is  a  bit  muddled  at  the  end;  the  love  story  of  Phoebe 
and  Holgrave,  who  is  really  a  descendant  of  Matthew  Maule,  is  brought 
to  a  sudden  happy  conclusion.  But  it  is  not  for  plot  that  we  reread  The 
House  of  Seven  Gables.  It  is  for  the  characters,  whom  Hawthorne  has 
endowed  with  life  not  by  dissection,  but  by  making  them  transparent 
to  our  eyes.  In  the  description  of  Phoebe  the  only  feature  he  gives  us  is 
hei  charm.  It  deepens  through  her  effect  upon  Clifford,  whose  life  had 
depended   upon   beauty,  and   whose   long  imprisonment  had   ended   his 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE  315 

hope  of  love.  She  wakened  in  him  a  new  sense  of  harmonious  life,  "just 
as  a  long  silent  harp  is  full  of  sound,  when  the  musician's  fingers  sweep 
across  it."  Part  of  Clifford's  tragedy  lies  in  his  lack  of  moral  fibre,  and 
Hawthorne  definitely  states  in  his  Introduction,  that  the  lesson  of  the 
book  is  that  evil  will  come  out  of  evil  through  many  generations. 

A  Wonder  Book  and  Tangletvood  Tales  naturally  need  no  extended 
analysis  here.  They  are,  however,  not  merely  "stories  for  children." 
Hawthorne's  understanding  of  boys  and  girls  and  his  sympathy  for  youth 
show  through  them  in  a  charm  that  makes  them  readable  at  any  age.  As 
he  said  in  the  Introduction  to  Tangleioood  Tales,  "We  must  raise  the 
intellect  and  fancy  to  the  level  of  childhood,  in  order  to  re-create  the 
original  myths."  It  is  the  spirit  of  a  younger  rather  than  an  ancient  civiliza- 
tion that  relates  the  Greek  stories  to  American  hearers. 

The  Blithedale  Romance  (1852)  is  hardly  upon  the  same  level  as  the 
other  novels  of  Hawthorne.  The  plot  is  vague  and  the  conversations  are 
often  labored.  The  other  romances  of  American  life  are  the  products  of 
imagination  with  a  few  hints  from  history,  but  in  The  Blithedale  Ro- 
mance there  are  much  more  than  hints  from  the  stay  of  Hawthorne  at 
Brook  Farm.  He  was  hampered  by  the  effort  to  conceal  his  very  fidelity 
to  the  conditions  at  West  Roxbury,  while  he  was  denying  that  he  had  any 
particular  persons  in  mind  in  drawing  the  characters.  Hollingsworth,  the 
practical  reformer,  was  clearly  based  on  Theodore  Parker;  Zenobia,  the 
richly  colored  passionate  woman,  suggested  at  once  certain  traits  of 
Margaret  Fuller,  and  Coverdale  came  as  near  as  any  of  his  characters  to 
represent  Hawthorne  himself.  The  American  Notebooks  reveal  how 
closely  he  followed,  in  Coverdale's  relations  to  Blithedale,  his  own  associa- 
tion with  Brook  Farm.  The  suicide  of  Zenobia,  for  example,  was  based 
upon  an  actual  drowning  in  which  Hawthorne  helped  to  search  for  the 
body. 

The  theme  of  the  story  is  the  contrast  between  the  aims  of  professional 
reformers  and  their  accomplishments,  and  Hawthorne,  who  disliked  re- 
formers of  all  kinds,  allowed  his  theme  to  overshadow  his  characters,  a 
fatal  mistake  in  fiction  or  drama.  They  become  in  consequence  types, 
and  while  there  are  contrasts  such  as  that  between  Zenobia  and  Priscilla, 
who  is  the  type  of  young  womanly  purity,  and  between  Hollingsworth's 
dominating  personality  and  Zenobia's  insistent  desires  for  self-expression, 
they  do  not  carry  the  novel  into  reality.  The  book  is  about  the  characters 
rather  than  created  by  them.  There  are  of  course  notable  flashes  of  in- 
sight into  human  nature:  the  picture  of  Zenobia's  mind  as  "full  of  weeds"; 
the  brief  description  of  Westervelt,  who  has  "no  passion  save  of  the 
senses";  and  the  way  in  which  the  sun  on  the  earth  and  the  scent  of  the 
woods  bring  up  certain  earthly  qualities  in  Coverdale.  The  supernatural 
is  well  indicated  in  Zenobia's  story  of  the  veiled  lady.  But  these  do  not 
make  a  novel. 


316  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

In  1852  Hawthorne  wrote  a  campaign  life  of  his  friend,  Franklin  Pierce, 
and  in  consequence  he  was  appointed  consul  at  Liverpool  by  the  Presi- 
dent in  1853.  Hawthorne  welcomed  the  office  as  a  means  of  supporting 
his  growing  family,  but  it  was  an  interruption  to  his  writing.  He  per- 
formed his  duties  with  fidelity  and  when  he  was  required  by  the  neces- 
sities of  his  position  to  represent  his  country  he  spoke  admirably.  Socially, 
he  made  few  friends,  but  he  welcomed  with  courtesy  those  wTho  sought 
him,  and  according  to  Memories  of  Hawthorne  by  his  daughter  Rose, 
there  was  quite  a  good  deal  of  social  life  during  the  English  sojourn.  The 
English  Notebooks  show,  too,  that  Hawthorne  did  not  shun  the  society 
of  other  men  of  letters;  he  simply  did  not  make  any  effort  to  meet  them, 
though  he  notes  that  he  must  see  Dickens  before  he  goes.  But  when  he 
was  invited  by  Monckton  Milnes  or  others  to  meet  his  fellow  craftsmen 
he  was  not  at  all  averse.  He  liked  the  Brownings  8  very  much,  for  ex- 
ample, and  his  interesting  comments  upon  such  men  as  Macaulay  reveal 
how  close  was  his  observation  of  them. 

In  his  English  life,  Sophia  Hawthorne  helped  him,  as  always,  and  per- 
haps those  who  stress  the  supposed  emasculation  by  her  of  Hawthorne's 
texts  have  not  read  carefully  her  letters  home,  describing  the  English 
admiration  of  her  husband's  good  looks,  and  continuing,  "He  does  not 
observe  this;  but  it  is  nuts  to  me,  and  I  observe  it."  9 

In  1857  Hawthorne  resigned  the  consulship  and  after  a  brief  visit  to 
France,  the  family  arrived  in  Rome  in  January,  1858,  and  remained,  with 
visits  to  Florence  and  Siena,  until  May,  1859.  Hawthorne's  impressions 
of  Rome  vary  decidedly.  In  the  Italian  Notebooks,  upon  his  return  to 
Rome  in  October  17,  1858,  he  notes:  "Now  that  I  have  known  it  once, 
Rome  certainly  does  draw  itself  into  my  heart,  as  I  think  even  London, 
or  even  little  Concord  itself,  or  old  sleepy  Salem,  never  did  and  never 
will."  Yet  in  a  letter  to  J.  T.  Fields,  February  3,  1859,  he  said:  "I  bitterly 
detest  Rome  and  shall  rejoice  to  bid  it  farewell  forever,  and  I  fully  ac- 
quiesce in  all  the  mischief  and  ruin  that  has  happened  to  it  from  Nero's 
conflagration  downward." 

Hawthorne  faithfully  visited  the  picture  galleries,  but  was  deeply 
stirred  only  when  he  found  inspiration  for  a  story  or  saw  character  be- 
neath the  surface  of  sculpture.  It  was  in  this  manner  he  found  the  germ 
of  The  Marble  Faun,  as  he  tells  it  in  the  Italian  Notebooks: 

We  afterwards  went  into  the  sculpture-gallery,  where  I  looked  at  the  Faun 
of  Praxiteles,  and  was  sensible  of  a  peculiar  charm  in  it;  a  sylvan  beauty  and 
homeliness,  friendly  and  wild  at  once.  The  lengthened,  but  not  preposterous 
ears,  and  the  little  tail,  which  we  infer,  have  an  exquisite  effect,  and  make 
the  spectator  smile  in  his  very  heart.  This  race  of  fauns  was  the  most  delightful 
of  all  that  antiquity  imagined.  It  seems  to  me  that  a  story,  with  all  sorts  of 

K  English  Notebooks,  Riverside  Edition,  Vol.  2,  p.  327. 
9  Letter  to  Mr.  Pcabody,  Memories  of  Hawthorne,  p.  271. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE  317 

fun  and  pathos  in  it,  might  be  contrived  on  the  idea  of  their  species  having 
become  intermingled  with  the  human  race;  a  family  with  the  faun  blood  in 
them  having  prolonged  itself  from  the  classic  era  till  our  own  days.  The  tail 
might  have  disappeared,  by  dint  of  constant  intermarriages  with  ordinary 
mortals;  but  the  pretty  hairy  ears  should  occasionally  reappear  in  members 
of  the  family;  and  the  moral  instincts  and  intellectual  characteristics  of  the 
faun  might  be  most  picturesquely  brought  out,  without  the  detriment  of  the 
human  interest  of  the  story.  Fancy  this  combination  in  the  person  of  a  young 
lady!  ... 

I  likewise  took  particular  note  of  the  Faun  of  Praxiteles,  because  the  idea 
keeps  recurring  to  me  of  writing  a  little  romance  about  it,  and  for  that  reason 
I  shall  endeavor  to  set  down  a  somewhat  minutely  itemized  detail  of  the 
statue  and  its  surroundings.10 

Hawthorne  also  took  concrete  suggestions  from  a  villa  of  the  counts 
of  Montaut  near  Siena,  for  Donatello's  ancestral  home,  Monte  Beni,  and 
began  in  Italy  to  outline  the  romance.  But  the  actual  writing  took  place 
in  England,  where  the  novel  was  finished  in  March,  i860.  It  was  pub- 
lished in  England  as  Transformation,  a  title  suggested  by  the  publishers 
but  not  liked  by  the  author  who  preferred  The  Marble  Faun:  or,  The 
Romance  of  Monte  Beni.11 

The  Marble  Faun  is  great,  not  because  of  its  fidelity  to  Italian  char- 
acter or  scenery,  for  Hawthorne  never  surrendered  himself  to  the  spell 
of  Italy.  Donatello,  although  a  real  sculptor  gave  the  name  to  him,  is 
primitive  rather  than  Italian.  But  Hawthorne  did  not  make  the  error,  so 
common  in  the  writings  of  British  or  American  novelists,  of  painting  the 
Italian  nobleman  as  a  complicated  assassin.  He  is  a  simple,  natural  human 
being,  and  he  becomes  a  mature  man  through  the  effect  of  his  crime  on 
his  conscience.  The  Marble  Faun  differed  from  its  predecessors  in  de- 
scribing the  actual  crime,  by  which  Donatello  frees  Miriam  from  her 
persecutor.  But  vivid  as  that  scene  is,  the  novel  is  mainly  concerned  with 
its  effect  not  only  upon  Donatello  but  also  upon  Miriam,  already  con- 
scious of  guilt,  and  upon  Hilda,  the  epitome  of  purity.  The  details  of 
Miriam's  earlier  sin  are  wisely  kept  a  mystery;  the  suggestions  of  its 
relation  to  the  crime  of  Beatrice  Cenci  are  sufficient  to  an  adult  mind. 
One  of  the  finest  scenes  is  that  in  which  Hilda  is  driven  to  the  confes- 
sional by  her  overmastering  desire  no  longer  to  bear  alone  her  knowledge 
of  the  crime  of  Donatello  and  Miriam.  Hawthorne's  use  of  the  Church 
is  due  to  his  recognition  of  its  dramatic  value  rather  than  of  its  spiritual 
power. 

On  his  return  to  Concord  in  i860,  Hawthorne  began  to  write  Our  Old 

Home  (1863),  his  description  of  England.  The  book  was  not  welcomed 

with  enthusiasm  in  Great  Britain,  possibly  because  of  the  portrait  of  the 

10  Riverside  Edition,  pp.  172-173.  See  also  pp.  78;  89;  137;  206;  436,  for  references 
to  Italian  scenes  or  pictures. 

II  Letter  to  J.  T.  Fields,  December  30,  1859.  MS,  Huntington  Library. 


3i8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

English  matron,  "massive  with  solid  beef  and  streaky  tallow."  It  had  not 
the  penetration  of  Emerson's  English  Traits  and  certain  lapses  in  Haw- 
thorne's usually  impeccable  style  showed  it  was  a  task.  He  dedicated 
Our  Old  Home  to  Franklin  Pierce  out  of  loyalty  to  his  old  friend.  This 
caused  much  bitter  criticism  at  home.  "My  friends  have  dropped  off  from 
me  like  autumn  leaves,"  he  wrote  to  Bridge.  Hawthorne  faced  with  cour- 
age not  only  the  gradual  loss  of  health,  but  also  the  straitened  circum- 
stances which  clouded  his  last  years.  As  a  "War  Democrat"  he  looked 
upon  the  war  with  a  broader  vision  than  New  Englanders  in  general  and 
his  article,  "Chiefly  about  War  Matters,  By  a  Peaceable  Man,"  12  probably 
alienated  some  admirers. 

Hawthorne's  conscientious  workmanship  is  revealed  in  his  four  un- 
finished romances.  In  1855  he  conceived  the  idea  of  an  English  romance, 
containing  the  return  of  an  American  heir  to  claim  his  estate.  He  visited 
Smithell's  Hall  in  Bolton  le  Moors  which  boasted  a  legend  concerning  a 
bloody  footstep  upon  the  threshold,  and  this  became  incorporated  in  the 
projected  romance.  Hawthorne  added  the  idea  that  the  footstep  was 
made  by  one  of  two  brothers  who  was  exiled,  flies  to  America  and  founds 
a  branch  of  the  family.  He  abandoned  this  form  of  the  story,  which  was 
not  completed.  The  plot  was  transferred  to  Dr.  Grimshaive's  Secret, 
which  was  nearly  finished.  Hawthorne  was  properly  not  satisfied  with 
it,  for  the  ending,  as  now  published,  is  inconclusive.  Yet  Chapter  XI,  in 
which  a  man  lives  in  a  room  shut  in  from  the  light  of  day  through  fear 
of  revenge  for  a  crime,  is  one  of  the  most  powerful  character  portrayals 
Hawthorne  gave  us.  In  Septimins  Felton,  the  bloody  footstep  was  intro- 
duced simply  as  a  story  told  by  one  of  the  characters  and  the  main  theme 
became  the  magic  elixir  of  life,  which  Septimius  brews  and  which  is 
destroyed  by  the  heroine  to  save  him  from  living  eternally.  The  scene 
was  laid  near  the  battlefield  of  Concord.  In  The  Dolliver  Romance,  only 
three  fragments  of  which  have  been  published,  the  bloody  footstep  and 
the  American  claimant  have  shrunk  to  a  mere  mention.  The  elixir  of 
life  was  evidently  to  be  the  main  theme  and  was  carried  on  by  an  old 
apothecary  and  a  little  girl.  The  progress  of  the  plot  is  therefore  from 
the  melodramatic  to  the  more  spiritual  theme,  from  a  local  setting  to  an 
universal  topic.  It  was  a  supernatural  motive,  Hawthorne's  great  field, 
and  it  is  a  pity  that  he  should  not  have  completed  the  treatment  of  a 
theme  he  had  had  in  mind  for  nearly  thirty  years.  It  was  mentioned  in 
1833  in  his  sketch  of  Sir  William  Pepperell  and  is  the  main  theme  of  "Dr. 
1  leidcgger's  Experiment"  in  1837. 

One  of  the  signal  errors  frequently  made  in  the  analyses  of  Hawthorne's 
nature  lies  in  portraying  him  as  a  recluse,  separated  from  human  con- 
tacts. In  reality,  the  greatest  unhappiness  in  his  fiction  is  born  by  those 
who  have  no  warm  contact  with  other  men.  Among  the  miserable  beings 

12  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  10  (July,  1862),  pp.  43-61. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE  3i9 

who  attend  the  meal  described  in  "The  Christmas  Banquet"  in  Mosses 
from  an  Old  Manse,  the  worst  sufferer  is  Gervase  Hastings,  the  apparently 
happy  man  who  can  feel  nothing.  The  great  tragedies  of  Hester  Prvnne 
and  Clifford  Pvncheon  are  their  loneliness. 

Hawthorne,  it  is  true,  was  like  Poe,  deeply  interested  in  problems  which 
dealt  with  man's  priceless  possession,  his  spiritual  integrity.  To  defend 
this,  man  must  himself  respect  it  in  others.  In  The  House  of  the  Seven 
Gables,  Hawthorne  praises  Holgrave  for  refusing  to  use  his  hypnotic 
power  to  obtain  an  influence  over  Phoebe.  "Let  us,  therefore,  concede 
to  the  daguerreotypist  the  rare  and  high  quality  of  reverence  for  another's 
individuality."  In  The  Blithedale  Romance,  Coverdale  speaks  with  "hor- 
ror and  disgust"  of  hypnotism,  the  "mystic  sensuality  of  this  singular 
age."  In  The  Scarlet  Letter,  Arthur  Dimmesdale  cries  to  Hester,  "That 
old  man's  revenge  has  been  blacker  than  my  sin.  He  has  violated,  in  cold 
blood,  the  sanctity  of  a  human  heart." 

The  great  scene  on  the  scaffold,  when  Arthur,  Hester  and  Pearl  stand 
together,  is  the  triumph  of  identity,  of  the  three  souls  welded  together 
by  a  great  passion.  In  "The  Birthmark"  the  scientist  who  had  tried  to 
disturb  the  identity  Nature  had  given  to  his  wife  pays  the  extreme 
penalty  of  becoming  the  murderer  of  the  woman  he  loves. 

Hawthorne's  desire  to  preserve  his  own  identity  for  the  artistic  work 
he  knew  he  must  do  led  to  this  reputation  for  deliberate  isolation.  As 
his  daughter  wrote  in  that  remarkable  chapter,  "The  Artist  at  Work,"  in 
Memories  of  Hawthorne,  "He  would  not  talk  with  a  fool;  as  a  usual  thing 
he  would  not  entertain  a  bore."  His  method  of  work  was  unremitting 
labor.  "He  loved  his  art,"  she  continues,  "more  than  his  time,  and  could 
thrust  into  the  flames  an  armful  of  manuscript  because  he  suspected  the 
pages  of  weakness  and  exaggeration."  Again  like  Poe,  those  who  knew 
him  best  loved  him  best.  The  tribute  of  his  daughter  as  she  described 
his  departure  on  his  last  journey  with  Pierce,  in  May,  1864,  from  which 
he  was  not  to  return,  needs  no  comment:  "Like  a  snow  image  of  an  un- 
bending but  an  old,  old  man,  he  stood  for  a  moment  gazing  at  me. .  .  .  We 
have  missed  him  in  the  sunshine,  in  the  storm,  in  the  twilight,  ever  since." 

Many  chapters  that  have  been  written  concerning  his  place  in  the 
creative  life  of  America  are  epitomized  in  Emerson's  description  of  his 
funeral,  too  long  unfortunately  to  quote  entirely,  but  revealing  the  na- 
ture of  both  men: 

Yesterday,  May  23,  we  buried  Hawthorne  in  Sleepy  Hollow,  in  a  pomp  of 
sunshine  and  verdure,  and  gentle  winds.  James  Freeman  Clarke  read  the  service 
in  the  church  and  at  the  grave.  Longfellow,  Lowell,  Holmes,  Agassiz,  Hoar, 
Dwight,  Whipple,  Norton,  Alcott,  Hillard,  Fields,  Judge  Thomas,  and  I 
attended  the  hearse  as  pallbearers.  Franklin  Pierce  was  with  the  family  . . .  The 
corpse  was  unwillingly  shown,— only  a  few  moments  to  this  company  of  his 
friends.  But  it  was  noble  and  serene  in  its  aspect,— nothing  amiss,— a  calm  and 


32o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

powerful  head  . . .  All  was  so  bright  and  quiet  that  pain  or  mourning  was 
hardly  suggested,  and  Holmes  said  to  me  that  it  looked  like  a  happy  meeting. 

Clarke  in  the  church  said  that  Hawthorne  had  done  more  justice  than  any 
other  to  the  shades  of  life,  shown  a  sympathy  with  the  crime  in  our  nature, 
and,  like  Jesus,  was  the  friend  of  sinners. 

.  . .  Moreover,  I  have  felt  sure  of  him  in  his  neighbourhood,  and  in  his 
necessities  of  sympathy  and  intelligence,— that  I  could  well  wait  his  time,— his 

unwillingness  and  caprice,— and  might  one  day  conquer  a  friendship Now  it 

appears  that  I  waited  too  long.13 

And  Holmes,  in  a  tribute  also  self-revealing,  wrote  these  exquisite 
lines: 

In  a  patch  of  sunlight,  flecked  by  the  shade  of  tall,  murmuring  pines,  at  the 
summit  of  a  gently  swelling  mound  where  the  wild-flowers  had  climbed  to 
find  the  light  and  the  stirring  of  fresh  breezes,  the  tired  poet  was  laid  beneath 
the  green  turf.  Poet  let  us  call  him,  though  his  chants  were  not  modulated  in 
the  rhythm  of  verse.  The  element  of  poetry  is  air:  we  know  the  poet  by  his 
atmospheric  effects,  by  the  blue  of  his  distances,  by  the  softening  of  every 
hard  outline  he  touches,  by  the  silvery  mist  in  which  he  veils  deformity  and 
clothes  what  is  common  so  that  it  changes  to  awe-inspiring  mystery,  by  the 
clouds  of  gold  and  purple  which  are  the  drapery  of  his  dreams.  And  surely 
we  have  had  but  one  prose-writer  who  could  be  compared  with  him  in  aerial 
perspective,  if  we  may  use  the  painter's  term.  If  Irving  is  the  Claude  of  our 
unrhymed  poetry,  Hawthorne  is  its  Poussin. 

. . .  The  shapes  and  scenes  he  pictures  slide  at  once  into  our  consciousness, 
as  if  they  belonged  there  as  much  as  our  own  homes  and  relatives.  That  limpid 
flow  of  expression,  never  laboring,  never  shallow,  never  hurried  nor  uneven 
nor  turbid,  but  moving  on  with  tranquil  force,  clear  to  the  depths  of  its 
profoundest  thought,  shows  itself  with  all  its  consummate  perfections.  Our 
literature  could  ill  spare  the  rich  ripe  autumn  of  such  a  life  as  Hawthorne's,  but 
he  has  left  enough  to  keep  his  name  in  remembrance  as  long  as  the  language 
in  which  he  shaped  his  deep  imaginations  is  spoken  by  human  lips.14 

Hawthorne  has  influenced  later  writers  of  fiction  less  than  Poe  because 
the  more  obvious  elements  in  the  latter's  ratiocinative  or  pseudoscientific 
stories  were  easier  to  attempt.  Just  as  no  one  has  approached  Poe's 
Arabesque  stories,  so  no  one  has  matched  his  strength  successfully  with 
the  delicate  and  subtle  art  of  Hawthorne.  When  an  English  novelist  wrote 
The  Silence  of  Dean  Maitland,  a  confessed  imitation  of  The  Scarlet 
Letter,  the  difference  was  at  once  apparent.  Henry  James  in  his  earliest 
short  stories,  like  "The  Romance  of  Certain  Old  Clothes,"  modeled  his 
art  upon  Hawthorne's  supernatural  effects,  but  pursued  his  later  efforts 
in  that  field  in  a  different  channel.  Critical  opinion  in  Great  Britain  after 
1850  recognized  Hawthorne's  supremacy  as  an  artist.  The  first  important 
study  of  American  literature,  made  by  John  Nichol,  professor  of  English 

18  "Burial  of  Hawthorne,"  Journals,  Vol.  10   (1864-76),  pp.  39-40. 
14  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  14  (July,  1864),  pp.  100-101. 


THE  ROA4ANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE  321 

Literature  at  the  University  of  Glasgow,  in  1882,  spoke  of  The  Scarlet 
Letter  as  "the  most  profound,  the  boldest,  the  most  riveting  analytical 
romance  of  our  tongue,  in  our  century."  15 

While  Hawthorne's  works  were  translated  into  German  and  French  as 
early  as  1851  and  1853,  and  individual  stories  appeared  in  Spanish  as  early 
as  1840,  Hawthorne  has  not  had  the  vogue  on  the  Continent  enjoyed  by 
Poe,  Longfellow,  or  Cooper.  This  is  principally  due  to  the  different 
standards  of  morality,  at  least  in  fiction.  The  agony  of  Hester  and 
Dimmesdale  for  their  sin  appears  overdrawn  to  races  for  whom  the  satis- 
faction of  illicit  love  seems  logically  inevitable. 

Hawthorne's  deep  sympathy  for  his  characters  who  have  sinned,  for 
Hester's  sufferings,  for  Dimmesdale's  self-torture,  for  Donatello's  re- 
morse, for  the  sinners  in  "The  Minister's  Black  Veil"  or  "The  White 
Old  Maid,"  arises  from  their  struggles  against  their  temptations,  past  or 
present.  They  do  not  sin  easily,  for  they  live  in  Hawthorne's  realm,  the 
domain  of  the  moral  life.  Here  he  has  fused  the  incidents  of  their  lives 
through  the  compelling  power  of  his  imagination  into  profound  truths, 
timeless  in  their  appeal  to  those  who  know  that  good  and  evil  share  in 
their  hold  upon  all  human  souls.  It  is  this  quality  that  has  made  and  keeps 
him  one  of  the  most  modern  of  all  American  artists  of  the  written  word. 

15  Quoted  in  Clarence  Gohdes,  American  Literature  in  Nineteenth -Century 
England  (1944),  pp.  137-138. 


Chapter  20 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY 


In  the  endeavor  to  relate  American  poetry  in  this  period  to  definite 
scenes  and  localities  it  becomes  apparent  that  there  were  two  tendencies, 
one  to  emphasize  the  national  note,  local  and  traditional,  the  other  to 
broaden  the  horizons  of  interest,  as  Irving  and  Cooper,  in  different  ways, 
had  done  in  prose.  With  Bryant  and  Emerson,  locality  had  not  been  the 
main  concern  and  in  Poe's  poetry  it  had  meant  comparatively  little. 

Those  poets  who  stressed  the  representation  of  American  life  dealt 
with  one  or  more  of  the  following  phases:  the  expression  of  national 
patriotic  feeling;  the  description  of  local  scenes  and  characters-  the  treat- 
ment  of  legend  and  tradition;  the  analysis  and  criticism  of  national  char- 
licteristics;  and  the  depiction  of  contemporary  life.  Those  who  dwelt  in 
poetry  more  definitely  upon  foreign  or  universal  themes  followed  the 
fashion  of  the  time  in  the  translation  of  foreign  verse,  the  choice  of  ro- 
mantic material  and  the  treatment  of  it  in  an  idealistic  manner. 

It  is  significant  that  the  poet  who  represented  American  life  most  truly 
should  also  strike  most  successfully  the  international  note.  "A  national 
literature,"  Longfellow  records  in  his  Journal  in  1847,  "is  the  expression 
of  national  character.  We  have,  or  shall  have,  a  composite  one,  embracing 
French,  Spanish,  Irish,  English,  Scotch  and  German  peculiarities.  Who- 
ever has  within  himself  most  of  these  is  our  truly  national  writer.1' 

It  was  because  Longfellow's  interests  were  so  wide,  and  his  love  of  his 
native  land  so  deep  that  his  study  of  other  literatures  enriched  his  poetry 
with  a  background  against  which  he  depicted  scenes  and  characters  of 
American  life  so  true  and  so  universal  in  their  appeal  that  they  have  be- 
come part  of  the  intellectual  and  emotional  being  of  his  own  and  of  other 
nations.  So  free  of  artifice,  so  honest  in  their  artistry  are  his  poems  that 
they  seem  to  spring  directly  from  his  heart  to  that  of  the  reader. 

Through  this  quality  he  has  revealed  to  millions  grace  and  beauty  in 
the  things  of  which  their  lives  are  made.  There  are  other  functions  than 
this  in  poetry;  there  arc  none  greater.  He  belongs  to  the  patrician  demo- 

3" 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  323 

crats  of  literature,  who  view  men  not  as  units  of  a  social  or  political  caste 
but  as  human  beings.  His  democracy,  did  not  manifest  itself  in  standing 
on  the  housetops  and  crying  out  that  he  had  arrived  and  must  be  reckoned 
with,  and  it  did  not  confuse  democracy,  whose  essence  is  conservatism, 
with  revolt.  He  realized  that  to  reveal  humanity  to  itself  it  is  by  no 
means  necessary  to  be  new. 

His  immediate  appeal  has  blinded  the  critic  who  distrusts  anything  he 
can  understand,  and  after  the  great  popularity  Longfellow  enjoyed  m 
his  lifetime  there  grew  up  a  critical  reaction  which  threatened  for  a  time 
his  proper  position.  Fortunately  the  rarer  quality  of  his  sonnets  and  many 
others  of  his  lyrics,  the  splendid  sweep  of  his  narratives  and  his  remark- 
able mastery  of  the  technique  of  versification  are  now  fully  recognized 
by  the  discriminating,  and  the  platitudes  concerning  his  unoriginality  and 
his  foreign  inspiration  are  uttered  only  by  the  conventional  critic,  un- 
able to  come  out  of  the  shadow  of  the  obvious. 

Henry  Wadsworth  Longfellow  was  born  in  Portland,  Maine,  February 
27,  1807,  the  son  of  Stephen  and  Zilpah  Wadsworth  Longfellow,  both  of 
families  which  had  come  to  America  in  the  seventeenth  century,  and 
which  transmitted  to  him  a  tradition  of  cultivation,  and  of  patriotic  service 
in  the  Revolution.  On  the  Wadsworth  side  he  counted  four  descendants 
of  the  Pilgrims,  including  John  Alden.  Portland  is  still  a  charming  town 
and  in  Longfellow's  "My  Lost  Youth"  there  is  reflected 

the  beauty  and  mystery  of  the  ships 
And  the  magic  of  the  sea 

which  brought  the  "long,  long  thoughts"  of  his  boyhood,  the  romance 
whose  fragrance  he  never  forgot. 

Like  Bryant,  whose  influence  is  clear  in  his  early  poetry,  Longfellow 
published  his  first  poem  "The  Battle  of  Lovell's  Pond"  a  when  he  was 
not  yet  fourteen.  He  matured  rapidly  and  while  he  was  still  at  Bowdoin 
College,  in  the  class  of  1825,  he  contributed  three  poems  to  the  American 
Monthly  in  Philadelphia  and  seventeen  appeared  in  the  United  States  Lit- 
erary Gazette,  from  1824  to  1826.  They  are  young  man's  verses,  minor  in 
key,  and  Longfellow  included  only  five  in  his  first  collected  volume  of 
verse,  Voices  of  the  Night  (1839).  They  reveal  his  interest  in  native 
themes,  including  Indian  legends,  and  they  emphasize  a  quality  in  Long- 
fellow's verse  from  its  earliest  days,  that  of  acceptability  to  editorial 
standards,  and  ultimately  to  popular  approval.  While  his  classmate,  Haw- 
thorne, was  still  brooding  over  his  inability  to  secure  an  audience,  Long- 
fellow was  on  his  way  to  success.  His  Commencement  oration  upon  "Our 
Native  Writers,"  stressed  the  importance  of  our  national  literature. 

1  Portland  Gazette,  Nov.  17,  1820.  He  wrote  on  the  same  skirmish  between  the 
settlers  and  the  Indians  an  Ode,  published  in  the  Gazette  of  Maine,  May  24,  1825.  The 
improvement  is  marked. 


324  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

While  he  was  resisting  with  quiet  force  and  the  certainty  of  his  voca- 
tion, his  father's  wish  that  he  study  law,  the  offer  of  a  professorship  of 
.Modern  Languages  at  Bowdoin  College  gave  him  the  opportunity  to 
follow  literature  as  a  profession.  He  was  to  prepare  himself,  at  his  own 
expense,  for  the  position  by  study  abroad  and  he  left  for  France  in  May, 
1826,  studying  and  traveling  in  Spain,  Italy,  and  Germany  until  1829. 
The  thrifty  college  had  withdrawn  the  offer  of  a  professorship  and  pro- 
posed that  he  become  a  tutor.  With  a  keen  sense  of  his  own  capacity,  he 
promptly  and  warmly  declined.2  He  was  elected  to  a  professorship  of 
Modern  Languages  at  an  annual  salary  of  eight  hundred  dollars. 

He  was  soon  writing  for  the  North  American  Review  upon  French, 
Spanish,  English  and  Italian  literature  and  an  eloquent  "Defence  of 
Poetry,"  3  in  which  he  took  the  same  ground  as  Emerson  did  later  in  his 
Phi  Beta  Kappa  oration,  that  American  writers  should  be  "more  original 
and  withal  more  national,"  and  "not  he  alone  does  service  to  the  state, 
whose  wisdom  guides  her  councils  at  home,  nor  he  whose  voice  asserts 
her  dignity  abroad.  Whoever  in  the  solitude  of  his  chamber,  and  by  even 
a  single  effort  of  his  mind,  has  added  to  the  intellectual  pre-eminence  of 
his  country,  has  not  lived  in  vain,  nor  to  himself  alone." 

Longfellow  was  married  in  1831  to  Mary  Potter,  and  was  happy  in  the 
growing  recognition  of  his  writing,  evidenced  by  the  invitation  to  read 
a  Phi  Beta  Kappa  poem  at  Harvard.  He  also  had  been  preparing  his  first 
book,  a  translation  of  the  Coplas  of  Don  Jorge  Manrique  (1833),  and 
published  in  1835  his  prose  sketches  of  travel,  Ontre-Mer.  This  book  in- 
cluded revisions  of  his  articles  on  French  and  Spanish  Literature,  and  a 
pleasant  account  of  his  journeys  through  France,  Spain  and  Italy,  varied 
by  short  romantic  tales. 

Before  the  final  publication  of  Ontre-Mer,  he  had  sailed  for  Europe  to 
fit  himself  for  the  Smith  Professorship  of  Modern  Languages  at  Harvard, 
visiting  the  Scandinavian  countries,  Germany,  and  Holland,  where  his 
wife  died.  Longfellow's  character  was  tempered,  never  broken,  by  sor- 
row, and  he  proceeded  with  his  studies,  finding  at  St.  Gilgen,  an  inscrip- 
tion, which  he  translated  later  for  the  motto  of  Hyperion:  "Look  not 
mournfully  into  the  Past.  It  comes  not  back  again.  Wisely  improve  the 
Present.  It  is  thine.  Go  forth  to  meet  the  shadowy  Future,  without  fear, 
and  with  a  manly  heart." 

It  epitomized  his  own  philosophy  of  life,  and  it  inspired  many  others 
until  it  crowned  the  close  of  Lincoln's  special  message  to  Congress,  July  4, 
[861. 

Late  in  1836  he  was  settled  in  Cambridge,  and  soon  began  lasting  friend- 

2  For  his  letter  to  Stephen  Longfellow,  see  Samuel  Longfellow,  Life  of  Henry 
Wadsivorth  Longfellow  (1891),  Vol.  1,  pp.  155-156;  and  for  the  consequent  action 
of  the  Board  of   Trustees,  pp.  178-179.  References  are  to  this  revised  edition. 

3  Vol.  34  (Jan.,  1832),  pp.  56-78. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY 


3*5 


ships  with  Charles  Sumner,  Cornelius  Felton,  Washington  Allston,  An- 
drews Norton  and  other  men  who  made  up  the  community  of  scholar- 
ship and  literature  centering  about  Harvard  College.  Hawthorne  sent  him 
Twice  Told  Talcs  and  Longfellow  reviewed  it  in  the  North  American 
Review,  to  Hawthorne's  "huge  delight."  4 

In  1837  he  secured  rooms  in  the  "Craigie  House,"  on  Brattle  Street, 
which  has  now  become  the  Longfellow  House,  since  the  remainder  of 
his  life  was  spent  there,  and  it  was  occupied  by  his  grandson,  Mr.  Henry 
Wadsworth  Longfellow  Dana,  until  the  latter's  death. 

Hyperion:  A  Romance  (1839),  is  a  decided  advance  upon  Ontre-Mer. 
It  has  the  unity  of  one  young  man's  dreams,  regrets,  reviving  hopes  and 
disappointments,  woven  into  literary  and  philosophic  discussions  with  a 
friend,  and  a  chronicle  of  moments  of  inspiration  from  German  and 
Swiss  scenery.  "Flemming,"  the  hero,  is  Longfellow,  of  course,  and  the 
love  story  with  Mary  Ashburton  is  his  own,  even  to  its  temporary  lack  of 
success.  Hyperion  can  be  appreciated  only  by  an  American,  who,  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  has  passed  through  similar  experiences  at  an  age  when 
Europe  was  a  revelation  to  him  of  its  treasures  of  art  and  letters  and  of 
its  limitations  of  character.  Hyperion  is  too  romantic,  and  it  deals  with 
a  Germany  that  is  gone  forever,  but  it  has  a  reality  of  its  own. 

In  the  meantime,  Longfellow  had  been  publishing  verses  in  periodicals 
and  he  gathered  them  into  Voices  of  the  Night,  later  in  1839.  The  original 
poems  are  of  course  preliminary  to  greater  work,  but  already  Long- 
fellow proved  his  ability  to  coin  phrases  so  inevitable  that  they  pass  into 
the  language  and  after  a  time  seem  trite  because  they  have  become  a  part 
of  our  culture.  They  are  not  only  ours.  During  the  First  World  War  the 
Abbe  Dimnet  told  an  American  audience  that  in  the  trenches  he  heard 
French  soldiers  reciting  some  verses  to  keep  up  their  courage.  "It  will 
interest  you,"  he  continued,  "to  know  that  the  words  were  those  of  your 
poet  Longfellow." 

Life  is  real!  life  is  earnest! 

And  the  grave  is  not  its  goal; 
Dust  thou  art,  to  dust  returnest, 

Was  not  spoken  of  the  soul. 

Longfellow  married  Frances  Appleton  in  1843,  after  a  lengthy  court- 
ship, and  his  life  established  its  pattern  in  his  teaching,  and  his  poetry. 
His  father-in-law  purchased  for  them  the  Craigie  House,  and  visits  to 
the  Appleton  house  in  Pittsfield  brought  them  into  contact  with  the 
Berkshire  mountain  territory,  and  inspired  such  poems  as  "The  Old 
Clock  on  the  Stairs." 

It  would  be  a  mistake,  however,  to  picture  Longfellow  as  living  an 
untroubled  existence.  He  had  strained  his  eyes  and  the  consequent  facial 

4  Letter,  Hawthorne  to  Longfellow,  Life,  Vol.  1,  p.  260. 


326  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

neuralgia  was  a  handicap.  For  many  years,  writing  was  limited  to  day- 
light. The  mental  and  physical  illness  of  his  brother,  Stephen,  was  a  per- 
petual source  of  worry  and  financial  strain  and  the  manuscript  letters 
and  journals  are  filled  with  references  to  his  wife's  constant  ill  health. 
His  teaching  at  Harvard  grew  irksome,  as  an  interruption  to  his  more 
important  creative  work.  He  was  well  liked  by  the  undergraduates,  who 
on  the  occasion  of  a  student  rebellion,  refused  to  treat  with  anyone  but 
him.5  Those  critics  who  perpetuate  the  cliche  which  describes  Long- 
fellow as  a  "sweet  and  gentle  singer"  have  evidently  never  stopped  a 
student  riot.  He  took  his  part  in  the  attempt  to  liberalize  the  Harvard 
curriculum,  but  his  heart  was  elsewhere. 

In  1842,  while  on  a  trip  to  Europe  for  his  health,  he  had  written  his 
sonnet  "Mezzo  Cammin"  in  which  he  lamented  that  his  ambition  to 
build  "a  tower  of  song  with  lofty  parapet7'  had  not  been  accomplished  be- 
cause of  "sorrow  and  a  care  that  almost  killed."  He  did  not  publish  this 
sonnet,  for  public  self-pity  was  not  in  his  nature.  On  his  return  journey 
he  wrote  his  Poems  on  Slavery  (1842),  to  be  later  discussed.6 

Through  references  in  journals  and  letters  it  is  clear  that  Longfellow 
was  planning  many  projects,  some  of  which  came  into  being  much  later, 
three-quarters  of  his  work  dating  after  his  release  from  the  load  of  teach- 
ing. It  will  establish  Longfellow's  contribution  to  poetry  best  by  con- 
sidering it,  not  chronologically,  but  in  those  major  classifications  which 
reflect  his  many-sided  interests.  He  gathered  his  shorter  poems  into 
volumes  such  as  Ballads  and  Other  Poems  (1841),  The  Belfry  of  Bruges 
and  Other  Poems  (1846)  and  The  Seaside  and  the  Fireside  (1850).  They 
revealed,  first,  Longfellow's  great  ability  at  narrative.  "The  Skeleton  in 

Armor"    also   illustrates    his   skill    in    mingling    nol-jyp    qnrl    fnrpign    inspira,- 

tion.  He  called  it  "a  national  ballad"  and  it  was  suggested  by  a  skeleton 
dug  up  near  Fall  River,  A^assachusetts,  and  connected  with  the  Round 
Tower  at  Newport,  which  Longfellow  saw  in  1838.  It  does  not  matter 
whether  the  skeleton  was  a  relic  of  the  Norse  invaders  of  the  tenth 
century  or  not.  The  excellence  of  this  ballad  lies  in  the  vigor  of  the  de- 
scription and  the  contrasted  harmony  of  the  vowel  sounds  quite  as  much 
as  in  the  interpretation  of  the  Norse  spirit,  so  striking  in  his  later  work 
but  then  somewhat  conventional.  Lines  like 

And  as  the  white  stars  shine 

On  the  dark  Norway  pine, 

On  that  dark  heart  of  mine 

Fell  their  soft  splendor. 

show  Longfellow's  growing  mastery  of  expression. 

•r>  W.  S.  Kennedy,  Henry  W .  Longfellow  (Cambridge,  1882),  p.  43;  T.  W.  Higgin- 
son,  Henry  W .  Longfellow  (1902),  pp.  176-177. 
6  See  Chapter  25. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  327 

These  narratives  were  his  contribution  to  the  creation  of  a  national 
literature,  whether  of  legend  and  tradition  or  of  local  incident,  like  "The 
Wreck  of  the  Hesperus"  which  was  based  on  reading,  or  on  more  definite 
knowledge,  such  as  "The  Two  Angels,"  an  exquisite  tribute  to  Lowell's 
first  wife,  whose  death  came  at  the  same  time  as  the  birth  of  one  of 
Long-fellow's  children. 

One  of  the  best  of  these  is  "The  Fire  of  Driftwood,"  suggested  by 
the  Devereux  Farm  near  Marblehead,  where  the  sights  and  sounds  wove 
themselves  into  the 

. . .  fancies  floating  through  the  brain, 
The  long-lost  ventures  of  the  heart 
That  send  no  answers  back  again. 

The  most  appealing  of  the  poems  of  locality,  however,  is  "My  Lost 
Youth"  (1855),  since  it  represents  so  strikingly  his  philosophy  of  composi- 
tion. The  opening  lines 

Often  I  think  of  the  beautiful  town 
That  is  seated  by  the  sea; 

come  directly  from  Dante's  Inferno,1 

Siede  la  terra  dove  nato  fui 
Sulla  marina. 

The  refrain 

And  a  verse  of  a  Lapland  song 
Is  haunting  my  memory  still: 
"A  boy's  will  is  the  wind's  will, 
And  the  thoughts  of  youth  are  long,  long  thoughts." 

was  taken  from  Herder's  translation  into  German  of  the  original  Lap- 
land song, 

Knabenwille  ist  Windeswille 

Junglings  Gedanken  lange  Gedanken. 

According  to  Longfellow's  diary,8  the  thought  of  Portland  came  first, 
then  literary  association  came  from  foreign  inspiration.  Longfellow  care- 
fully revised  the  poem,  and  the  refrain,  which  originally  signified  that  a 
child's  will  was  inconstant  as  the  wind,  became  a  tribute  to 

the  gleams  and  glooms  that  dart 

Across  the  school-boy's  brain; 
The  song  and  the  silence  in  the  heart, 

That  in  part  are  prophecies  and  in  part 
Are  longings  wild  and  vain. 

7  Canto  V,  Verse  97,  see  Life,  Vol.  2,  p.  284. 

8  Life,  Vol.  2,  p.  284.  See  also  J.  F.  Hatfield,  "Longfellow's  Lapland  Song,"  PMLA, 
Vol.  45  (Dec.,  1930),  pp.  1 188-1 192. 


328  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  poem  has  been  the  inspiration  of  many  poems  and  stories,  the  most 
notable  being  Robert  Frost's  first  volume,  A  Boy's  Will.  It  belongs  with 
"The  Building  of  the  Ship"  (1849)  to  those  poems  inspired  by  the  love 
of  the  sea.  The  very  motion  of 

The  ocean  old, 

Centuries  old, 

Strong  as  youth,   and   as  uncontrolled 

is  there. 

'  It  was  in  the  field  of  legend  and  tradition  that  Longfellow  showed  the 
v  ^'greatest  sweep  of  narrative  power,  as  well  as  the  vivid  portrayal  of  char- 
X^acter  and  scenes,  and  the  fusing  of  many  facts  into  universal  truths. 
"Evangeline"  was  begun  in  November,  1845  and  finished  in  February, 
1847.  It  was  first  called  "Gabrielle."  The  theme  was  given  to  him  by 
Hawthorne  who  had  received  it  from  the  Rev.  H.  L.  Connolly,  who  in 
his  turn  had  heard  it  from  a  parishioner.  Hawthorne  brought  the  clergy- 
man to  dine  with  Longfellow,  who  liked  the  story  of  a  young  Acadian 
maiden  and  her  lover  who  had  been  separated  by  the  English  troops,  had 
sought  each  other  for  years,  and  at  last  met  in  a  hospital  where  the  lover 
lay  dying.9 

Longfellow  did  not  visit  Acadia,  but  read  descriptions  of  it,  and  for 
the  final  scenes  he  depended  upon  his  memory  of  the  Pennsylvania  Hospi- 
tal in  Philadelphia,  which  he  had  seen  in  1826.10  Longfellow  followed 
the  historical  facts  closely.  The  Acadians,  transferred  by  France  to  Eng- 
land by  the  Treaty  of  Utrecht  in  17 13,  had  refused  to  take  the  oath  of 
allegiance.  As  a  military  move,  it  was  decided  to  transport  the  French 
to  the  New  England  colonies,  hoping  to  prevent  their  aid  being  given 
to  France  if  a  conflict  should  arise  in  their  locality.  The  incidents  of  the 

9  See  Life,  Vol.  2,  pp.  70-73;  Hawthorne's  American  Note  Books,  Riverside  Edition, 
p.  208. 

10  Main  Sources  were:  Abbe  Thomas  Guillaume  Francois  Raynal,  Histoire 
Philosophe  et  Politique  des  Establissments  et  du  Commerce  des  Europeens  dans  les 
Deux  hides.  (Amsterdam,  1770);  T.  C.  Haliburton,  An  Historical  and  Statistical 
Account  of  Nova  Scotia,  2  Vols.  (Halifax,  1829);  John  F.  Watson,  Annals  of  Phila- 
delphia (Philadelphia,  1830);  William  Darby,  A  Geographical  Description  of  Louisiana 
(Philadelphia,  1816).  Longfellow,  in  giving  these  sources,  remarks  in  his  journal  "But 
for  the  form  and  the  poctry-they  must  come  from  my  own  brain."  In  The  Origin 
and  Development  of  Longfellow's  "Evangeline"  bv  Manning  Hawthorne  and  Henrv 
W.  Longfellow  Dana  (Portland,  Me.,  1947),  in  addition  to  valuable  description  of  the 
early  forms  of  the  poem,  other  sources  arc  indicated.  The  most  important  are:  Life 
in  the  New  World  (1845),  by  Charles  Sealsficld  (Karl  Anton  Postl);  and  the 
Expedition  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  etc.,  by  Captain  J.  C.  Fremont  (Washington, 
1K45).  From  the  latter  Longfellow  derived  some  of  the  proper  names  of  characters, 
such  as  "Lajcuncssc,"  also  place  names,  and  the  story  of  the  Shawnee  woman  whose 
husband,  a  Coureur-dcs-Bois,  had  been  murdered  by  the  Comanchcs.  Longfellow's 
method  of  using  his  sources  is  illustrated  by  the  way  he  attributes  to  this  Indian 
woman  legends  derived  not  from  Fremont  but  from'  Schoolcraft's  Travels  (Phila- 
delphia, 182 1 ). 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  329 

assembling  of  the  men  in  the  church,  of  the  heartless  separation  of  families 
and  the  burning  of  the  village  are  taken  from  reality. 

If  the  picture  of  Grand-Pre,  of  the  farmers'  life,  seems  too  idyllic,  the 
dramatic  instinct  of  Longfellow  was  preparing  for  the  contrast  between 
this  peace  and  happiness  and  the  tragedy  awaiting  them.  The  rejoicing 
at  the  signing  of  the  marriage  contract  and  the  betrothal  feast  pass  im- 
mediately into  the  sounds  of  the  brazen  drums  of  the  British  soldiers.  The 
character  of  Evangeline  grows  into  power  and  beauty  all  through  the 
poem— from  the  beginning,  in  the  description  of  her  return  from  con- 
fession, 

When  she  had  passed,  it  seemed  like  the  ceasing 
of  exquisite  music 

through  the  long  search  for  Gabriel  until  the  final  scene  with  its  re- 
strained note  of  undying  love  and  longing. 

It  is  Evangeline's  story  throughout.  Gabriel  is  only  a  name  and  it  seems 
rather  a  pity  that  Longfellow  omitted  three  episodes  in  the  original  ver- 
sion which  depicted  their  boy  and  girl  friendship  and  would  have  made 
him  more  real.  Basil,  the  Blacksmith,  and  Father  Felician,  while  well 
drawn,  do  not  disturb  the  interest  that  centers  upon  Evangeline.  Neither 
does  the  remarkable  description  of  Lake  Atchafalaya  in  Louisiana,  which 
Longfellow  never  saw,  where  the  "hoofbeats  of  fate"  keep  the  lovers 
apart.  The  scene  fits  into  the  mood  of  the  long  search,  just  as  the  peace- 
ful scene  of  the  hospital  in  Philadelphia  forms  its  own  background  for 
the  final  farewell. 

The  efforts  to  find  definite  European  sources  for  Evangeline  have  been 
fruitless.  But  Longfellow's  understanding  of  the  Northern  peoples  has  a 
deeper  connection  with  the  poem.  The  Acadians  were  descended  from 
the  Normans,  and  the  indomitable  persistence  of  Evangeline  in  her  quest, 
her  singlehearted  determination  to  find  and  keep  the  lover  who  belonged 
to  her,  reflect  Longfellow's  knowledge  of  the  race  that  never  let  go  of 
anything  which  they  had  once  taken  into  their  possession.  The  discus- 
sion as  to  the  hexameter  in  English,  while  it  raged  after  the  publication 
of  Evangeline,  is  now  a  dead  issue.  The  poem  is  written  in  a  six-stress 
falling  measure  with  a  free  use  of  unstressed  syllables;  that  it  is  not  the 
classical  hexameter  is  beside  the  question. 

Through  1852  and  1853  Longfellow's  Journals  show  his  determination 
to  resign  his  professorship,  his  earlier  reasons  being  strengthened  by  his 
optical  trouble  and  facial  neuralgia.  On  July  19,  1854  he  gave  his  last 
lecture.  He  had  already  begun  Hiawatha,  in  June.  It  was  finished  in 
March,  1855  and  published  in  November.  By  March  1857  it  had  sold 
fifty  thousand  copies.11 

Longfellow's  interest  in  Indian  themes  stemmed  from  his  youth,  and 

11  Life,  Vol.  2,  p.  273,  p.  329. 


33o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

he  had  welcomed  Indian  visitors,  including  an  Ojibway  preacher  and 
poet,  to  his  home.  He  mentions  most  of  his  sources  in  his  Journal.12  Algic 
Researches  furnished  him  with  information  concerning  Manabozho,  the 
Ojibwav  deitv  for  whose  name  Longfellow  fortunately  substituted  Hia- 
watha, the  deity  of  the  Iroquois,13  who  was  the  supernatural  teacher  of 
the  Five  Nations,  and  who  departed  in  his  canoe  after  bringing  the  tribes 
together.  Longfellow  used  the  verse  form  of  the  Finnish  epic,  the  Kal- 
evala,  a  four-stress  falling  measure.  This  has  led  to  incorrect  assertions 
that  he  also  derived  incidents  from  this  poem.  There  are  a  few  minor 
events  in  Hiawatha  which  are  similar  to  events  in  the  Kalevala,  but  they 
are  much  more  like  the  incidents  given  in  Schoolcraft.  Primitive  legends 
often  contain  similar  incidents,  derived  independently. 

The  best  way  to  appreciate  Longfellow's  own  contribution  to  Hia- 
watha is  to  compare  it,  canto  by  canto,  with  the  Indian  legends.  To  use 
his  own  phrase  concerning  another  writer,  he  knew  what  "to  leave  in  the 
inkstand."  Manabozho  is  concerned  at  times  with  uninteresting  and  earthy 
adventures,  and  Longfellow  made  his  hero  an  ideal  creation,  it  is  true, 
but  also  a  more  interesting  figure.  The  symbolic  elements,  like  the  origin 
of  the  four  winds,  are  portrayed  with  an  understanding  of  a  race  whose 
language  has  still  remained  symbolic. 

Those  portions  of  Hiawatha  which  are  either  entirely  original  with 
Longfellow  or  which  depend  for  only  a  mere  suggestion  upon  his  sources 
are  the  best.  The  love  story  of  Hiawatha  and  Minnehaha  is  imaginary— all 
we  hear  from  Algic  Researches  is  that  he  visited  the  arrow-maker  and 
saw  that  his  daughter  was  beautiful  and  "felt  his  breast  beat  with  a  new 
emotion  but  said  nothing."  In  Schoolcraft  we  learn  that  Manabozho 
"returned  to  his  former  place  of  dwelling  and  married  the  arrow  maker's 
daughter.''  Out  of  these  suggestions  grew  Canto  X,  "Hiawatha's  Woo- 
ing," and  Canto  XX,  "The  Famine,"  containing  her  death,  two  of  the 
truly  poetic  sections  in  which  Longfellow  left  his  sources  to  paint  a 
universal  picture  of  true  love  and  sorrow.  Longfellow's  selection  from 
the  material  reveals  his  understanding  of  the  fundamental  racial  distinc- 
tions between  the  Indian  and  the  white  man.  In  Canto  V,  "Hiawatha's 

12  The  principal  sources  were  H.  R.  Schoolcraft,  Algic  Researches,  2  Vols.  (1839); 
information  Respecting  the  History,  Conditio?!  and  Prospects  of  the  Indian  Tribes 
(Philadelphia,  1857),  three  volumes  of  which  Longfellow  saw  in  1854,  the  entire 
work  in  six  volumes  being  complete  in  1857;  Oneota;  or,  The  Red  Race  in  America, 
a  journal  published  in  eight  parts  (1844-45);  J-  G.  E.  Heckewelder,  An  Account  of 
the  History,  Manners  and  Customs  of  the  Indian  Nations  etc.  (Philadelphia,  1818); 
Edwin  James,  cd.,  A  Narrative  of  the  Captivity  and  Adventures  of  John  Tanner 
(1830; ;  George  Catlin,  Illustrations  of  the  Manners,  Customs  a?id  Condition  of  the 
North  American  Indians,  2  vols.  (1841);  Airs.  Alary  Eastman,  Dahcotah;  or,  Life  and 
Legends  of  the  Sioux  (1849);  Perc  Marquette,  Reck  des  Voyages  et  Des  Decouvertes 
du  Reverend  Perc  J.  Marquette  (Albany  et  New  York,  1855). 

18  Probably  suggested  by  an  Iroquois  legend,  "Hiawatha  or  the  Origin  of  the 
Onondaga  Council  Fire,"  Schoolcraft,  Indian  Tribes,  Vol.  3,  p.  314. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  331 

Fasting,"  the  legend  of  Mondamin,  which  tells  the  origin  of  the  maize 
or  Indian  corn,  marks  the  transition  of  the  Indian  from  a  race  supported 
entirely  by  hunting  and  fishing,  to  a  partly  agricultural  people.  The  con- 
ception of  property  in  the  European  mind,  which  insists  upon  exclusive 
possession  of  a  definite  piece  of  land,  and  that  of  the  Indian,  in  which 
the  larger  units,  belonging  to  the  tribe,  were  his  to  hunt  and  fish  upon 
without  marked  boundaries,  were  irreconcilable  and  led  to  the  inevitable 
displacement  of  the  Indian. 

Hiawatha  created  a  great  deal  of  discussion,  especially  concerning  the 
measure,  which  almost  immediately  was  paid  the  compliment  of  parody. 
Critics  who  did  not  know  the  Indian  legends  accused  Longfellow  of 
transferring  the  Finnish  stories  to  Indian  scenes.  The  measure  was  chosen, 
of  course,  because  it  suited  the  Indian  parallelism  of  expression.  Hiawatha 
was  an  instant  success,  and  as  Longfellow  kept  his  copyrights  in  his  own 
hands  it  justified  his  financial  dependence  upon  his  writings. 

Even  more  popular  was  another  of  his  treatments  of  tradition,  The 
Courtship  of  Miles  Standish— published  in  October,  1858,  of  which 
twrenty-five  thousand  copies  were  sold  in  a  week  and  ten  thousand  in 
London  on  the  first  day.  Longfellow  had  at  first  thought  of  writing  a 
drama  named  "Priscilla"  and,  although  he  changed  his  title,  she  remains 
the  central  figure.  The  best  poetry  comes  from  her  lips,  in  passages  like 

For  there  are  moments  in  life,  when  the  heart  is 

so  full  of  emotion, 
That  if  by  chance  it  be  shaken,  or  into  its  depths 

like  a  pebble 
Drops  some  careless  word,  it  overflows  and  its 

secret, 
Spilt  on  the  ground  like  water,  can  never  be 

gathered  together. 

or  that  one  beginning,  "It  was  wrong  I  acknowledge;  for  it  is  the  fate  of 
a  woman." 

Longfellow  drew  inspiration  from  traditions  of  his  own  family,  or 
from  Bradford's  History  of  Plymouth  Plantation,  which  he  altered  to 
suit  his  purpose.14  The  dramatic  defiance,  in  which  the  hostile  message 
of  the  Indians,  a  snakeskin  filled  with  arrows,  is  answered  by  replacing 
the  arrows  with  bullets,  is  attributed  to  Standish  while  it  rightfully  be- 
longs to  Bradford.  But  Longfellow  hardly  needed  any  sources,  for  the 
poem  is  the  idealization  of  the  Pilgrim  nature,  and  while  not  the  equal  of 
Hiawatha  or  Evangeline  is  one  of  his  most  charming  contributions. 

During  the  forties  he  was  concerned  constantly  with  planning  or  creat- 

14  Longfellow  may  also  have  used  Young's  Chronicle  of  the  Pilgrim  Fathers 
(Boston,  1841),  especially  Winslow's  Relation  of  Standish' 's  Expedition  against  the 
Indians  of  Weymouth;  or  Timothy  Alden's  Collection  of  American  Epitaphs  and 
Inscriptions  (Boston,  181 2). 


332  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

ing  dramatic  poems.  The  Spanish  Student  (1842)  was  inspired  by  his  love 
of  Spain  and  will  be  discussed  in  that  connection.  A  more  lofty  project, 
which  occupied  his  thoughts  for  many  years,  was  his  trilogy  of  Christus, 
in  which  the  legend  and  tradition  were  both  native  and  foreign.  The  first 
mention  of  this  dramatic  trilogy  appeared  in  his  journal  in  November, 
1 841;  his  plan  was  to  deal  with  the  aspects  of  Christianity  in  the  Apostolic, 
Medieval  and  Modern  Ages,  representing  Hope,  Faith  and  Charity.  The 
central  thought  is  the  tragedy  that  arises  from  intolerance  and  persecu- 
tion. The  first  to  be  published  was  The  Golden  Legend  (1851),  the  sec- 
ond in  point  of  time.  It  is  based  on  Der  arme  Heinrich  by  Hartmann  von 
der  Aue.15  It  was  the  most  popular  of  the  trilogy,  but  it  was  the  love 
story  of  Prince  Henry  and  Elsie,  who  was  willing  to  give  her  life  for 
him,  rather  than  the  background  of  the  thirteenth  century,  that  made 
the  poem  attractive.  As  usual,  the  notes  of  nobility,  such  as  the  story  of 
the  Abbess,  rather  than  the  conventional  comedy  of  the  carousing  of  the 
monks,  were  those  that  Longfellow  struck  best.  The  four-stress  measure 
is  effective,  and  the  eight-stress  lines  are  among  the  rarest  of  occurrences 
in  English  verse. 

The  New  England  Tragedies  (1868),  the  second  part  to  be  written, 
had  been  in  Longfellow's  mind  since  1839,  and  had  been  begun  in  1856. 
He  read  extensively  in  preparation,16  and  sometimes  followed  the  very 
language  of  his  originals,17  selecting  the  right  passages,  as  usual.  John 
Endicott  was  first  written  in  prose,  but  Longfellow  rewrote  it  in  blank 
verse  and  added  Giles  Corey  of  the  Salem  Farms.18  They  have  never  ap- 
pealed widely,  probably  because  the  religious  persecution  in  John  Endi- 
cott is  not  inherently  interesting  and  there  is  too  much  argument  for 
drama. 

In  Giles  Corey,  the  persecution  for  witchcraft  is  more  tragic,  because 
although  the  stripping  and  lashing  of  the  Quakeress  Edith,  the  heroine  of 
John  Endicott,  is  horrible  enough,  the  condemnation  of  Giles  and  Martha 
Corey  is  more  truly  inevitable.  Edith  might  have  saved  herself  by  staying 
away  from  Massachusetts,  but  the  Coreys  had  no  chance  to  escape;  they 
were  doomed  no  matter  what  they  did,  and  the  way  in  which  the  net  of 
evidence  is  woven  around  Giles  Corey  is  skilfully  portrayed.  The  persecu- 
tion for  witchcraft  was  a  good  theme  for  a  play,  as  Barker's  Superstition 
and  Mathews'  Witchcraft  had  already  proved,  and  the  comparative  failure 

15  Longfellow  did  not  know  of  Legenda  Aurea  till  he  had  published  The  Golden 
Legend. 

16  His  main  sources  were  Robert  Calef,  More  Wonders  of  the  Invisible  World 
(London,  1700);  Joseph  Bcssc,  Collection  of  the  Sufferings  of  the  People  Called 
Quakers,  2  vols.  (London,  1753);  George  Bishop,  New  England  Judged  by  the  Spirit 
of  the  Land  (London,  1703);  and  histories  of  New  England  such  as  Norton's.  These 
are  mentioned  in  the  Life. 

17  For  example  cf.  John  Endicott,  Act  III,  with  Besse,  Vol.  2,  pp.  177-178  and 
221-224. 

18  Life,  Vol.  3,  p.  106. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  333 

of  Giles  Corey  was  not  due  to  Longfellow's  material.  He  had  hoped  to 
see  them  on  the  stage,  but  gave  up  that  project  very  soon. 

The  Divine  Tragedy  (1871)  has  not  been  recognized  either  as  one  of 
Longfellow's  finest  accomplishments.  The  actual  presence  of  Christus  is 
a  mistake;  he  is  best  represented  in  drama  or  fiction  as  an  influence  in  the 
background,  as  in  Ben  Hur.  There  are  too  many  episodes  and  the  para- 
phrasing of  the  Bible  is  a  mistake,  especially  when  it  is  turned  into  blank 
verse.  The  trilogy  was  published  complete  as  Christus  in  1872.  Long- 
fellow was  greatly  disappointed  at  its  reception  for  he  had  hoped  to  make 
it  the  crowning  work  of  his  life.  The  conception  was  lofty  but  the  ex- 
ecution for  reasons  already  given  was  not  equal  to  it. 

Another  major  effort  of  Longfellow  was  his  Tales  of  a  Wayside  Inn, 
published  in  sections  in  1863,  1872  and  1873.  The  conception  of  a  group 
of  storytellers  is,  of  course,  an  old  one,  and  the  only  unity  of  the  Tales 
consists  of  their  being  told  by  a  number  of  friends  at  the  Red  Horse 
Inn  at  Sudbury,  Massachusetts.  Five  of  the  stories  are  of  native,  seven- 
teen of  foreign,  origin.  "Paul  Revere"  is  the  only  one  of  the  native  poems 
that  has  remained  a  favorite,  largely  through  the  vigor  with  which  the 
patriotic  note  is  struck.  The  poems  with  foreign  inspiration  can  best 
be  treated  in  a  later  study  of  Longfellow's  interpretation  of  foreign 
themes.  Here  belongs  one  of  his  greatest  poems,  "The  Saga  of  King  Olaf," 
but  the  general  level  of  the  Tales  is  uneven. 

Longfellow's  novel,  Kavanagh  (1849)  was  hardly  an  important  con- 
tribution to  fiction.  The  characters  and  incidents  fade  easily.  What  re- 
mains, however,  is  the  conversation  between  Churchill  the  schoolmaster 
and  his  visitor,  Hathaway,  in  which  Longfellow  states  his  philosophy  of 
composition.  Hathaway  believes  that  we  want  "a  national  literature  alto- 
gether shaggy  and  unshorn,  that  shall  shake  the  earth  like  a  herd  of 
buffaloes."  Churchill  retorts: 

Literature  is  rather  an  image  of  the  spiritual  world  than  of  the  physical,  is 
it  not:  Mountains,  lakes  and  rivers  are,  after  all,  only  its  scenery  and  decora- 
tions, not  its  substance  and  essence.— Nationality  is  a  good  thing  to  a  certain 
extent,  but  universality  is  better.  All  that  is  best  in  the  great  poets  of  all 
countries  is  not  what  is  national  in  them,  but  what  is  universal. 

It  is  this  universality,  interpreted  through  a  poetic  form,  the  sonnet, 
that  has  become  a  touchstone  of  genius,  which  illuminates  the  rarer  qual- 
ity in  Longfellow's  .poetry.  He  has  created  the  greatest  sonnets  in  Amer- 
ica, ranking  with  the  best  British  contemporaries,  Tennyson,  Rossetti, 
and  Mrs.  Browning. 

Some  of  his  earliest  translations  were  in  this  form,  and  he  wrote 
original  sonnets  such  as  "Mezzo  Cammin"  in  1842.  Altogether  he  com- 
posed eighty-two  sonnets,  twenty-two  being  translations.  He  used  the 
Italian  form,  which  enclosed  rimes  in  the  octave,  at  the  end  of  which 


334  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

comes  the  climax,  while  the  sestet  broadens  out  to  the  conclusion.  His 
favorite  form  was  abbaabba  cdecde.  The  Italian  form  is  harder  to  write 
than  the  English  form,  consisting  of  three  quatrains  and  a  couplet,  but 
it  gives  a  unitv  and  an  undercurrent  of  harmony  in  its  rime  scheme  which 
Longfellow  understood. 

The  six  sonnets  which  he  prefixed  to  his  translation  of  Dante's  Divina 
Commedia  are  among  his  finest  utterances.  Written  in  1864,  the  Civil 
War  is  reflected  in  the  twelfth  line  of  the  first  sonnet. 

Oft  have  I  seen  at  some  cathedral  door 

A  laborer,  pausing  in  the  dust  and  heat, 

Lay  down  his  burden,  and  with  reverent  feet 

Enter,  and  cross  himself,  and  on  the  floor 
Kneel  to  repeat  his  paternoster  o'er; 

Far  off  the  noises  of  the  world  retreat; 

The  loud  vociferations  of  the  street 

Become  an  undistinguishable  roar. 
So,  as  I  enter  here  from  day  to  day, 

And  leave  my  burden  at  this  minster  gate, 

Kneeling  in  prayer,  and  not  ashamed  to  pray, 
The  tumult  of  the  time  disconsolate 

To  inarticulate  murmurs  dies  away, 

While  the  eternal  ages  watch  and  wait. 

Very  often  sonnets  are  merely  a  bundle  of  comparisons  tied  together 
by  a  rime  scheme,  but  in  these  six  sonnets  the  original  metaphor,  com- 
paring his  translation  to  the  prayer  of  the  laborer  in  a  cathedral,  rules 
all  of  them.  The  sestet  of  the  second  is  especially  lofty: 

How  strange  the  sculptures  that  adorn  these  towers! 
This  crowd  of  statues,  in  whose  folded  sleeves 
Birds  build  their  nests;  while  canopied  with  leaves 
Parvis  and  portal  bloom  like  trellised  bowers, 

And  the  vast  minster  seems  a  cross  of  flowers! 
But  fiends  and  dragons  on  the  gargoyled  eaves 
Watch  the  dead  Christ  between  the  living  thieves, 
And,  underneath,  the  traitor  Judas  lowers! 

Ah!  from  what  agonies  of  heart  and  brain, 
What  exultations  trampling  on  despair, 
What  tenderness,  what  tears,  what  hate  of  wrong, 

What  passionate  outcry  of  a  soul  in  pain, 
Uprose  this  poem  of  the  earth  and  air, 
This  mediaeval  miracle  of  song! 

The  fourth  sonnet  is  a  remarkable  interpretation  of  the  meeting  of 
Dante  and  Beatrice  in  Purgatorio  XXX  and  XXXIII. 

The  sonnet  is  especially  suited  for  tributes  to  individuals  and  Long- 
fellow's sonnets  upon  Dante,  Chaucer,  Shakespeare   and   other  historic 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  335 

characters  are  noteworthy.  Among  the  very  finest  are  the  revelations  of 
a  mood,  sometimes  mystical  and  associated  with  Nature. 

As   a   fond   mother,   when   the   day   is   o'er, 

Leads  by  the  hand  her  little  child  to  bed, 

Half  willing,  half  reluctant  to  be  led, 

And  leave  his  broken  playthings  on  the  floor, 
Still  gazing  at  them  through  the  open  door, 

Nor  wholly  reassured  and  comforted 

By  promises  of  others  in  their  stead, 

Which,  though  more  splendid,  may  not  please  him  more; 
So  Nature  deals  with  us,  and  takes  away 

Our  playthings  one  by  one,  and  by  the  hand 

Leads  us  to  rest  so  gently,  that  we  go 
Scarce  knowing  if  we  wish  to  go  or  stay, 

Being  too  full  of  sleep  to  understand 

How  far  the  unknown  transcends  the  what  we  know. 

In  a  recent  address  by  one  of  the  foremost  of  American  astronomers, 
upon  the  future  of  science,  he  closed  with  the  last  line  of  this  sonnet. 
Others  in  this  group  which  rise  to  the  first  rank  through  the  sheer  beautv 
of  feeling  and  phrasing  are  "The  Galaxy,"  the  four  sonnets  entitled  "The 
Two  Rivers,"  "The  Sound  of  the  Sea,"  celebrating 

the  rushing  of  the  sea-tides  of  the  soul; 
and  "The  Tides,"  whose  sestet  is: 

All  thought  and  feeling  and  desire,  I  said, 
Love,  laughter,  and  the  exultant  joy  of  song 
Have  ebbed  from  me  forever!  Suddenly  o'er  me 

They  swept  again  from  their  deep  ocean  bed, 
And  in  a  tumult  of  delight,  and  strong 

As  youth,  and  beautiful  as  youth,  upbore  me. 

His  own  fading  years  inspired  his  "Victor  and  Vanquished,"  with 
its  note  of  courage,  and  one  of  his  best  came  in  1879,  "The  Cross  of 
Snow." 

In  the  long,  sleepless  watches  of  the  night, 

A  gentle  face— the  face  of  one  long  dead— 

Looks  at  me  from  the  wall,  where  round  its  head 

The  night-lamp  casts  a  halo  of  pale  light. 
Here  in  this  room  she  died;  and  soul  more  white 

Never  through  martyrdom  of  fire  was  led 

To  its  repose;  nor  can  in  books  be  read 

The  legend  of  a  life  more  benedight. 
There  is  a  mountain  in  the  distant  West 

That,  sun-defying,  in  its  deep  ravines 

Displays  a  cross  of  snow  upon  its  side. 


336  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Such  is  the  cross  I  wear  upon  my  breast 

These  eighteen  years,  through  all  the  changing  scenes 
And  seasons,  changeless  since  the  day  she  died. 

This  sonnet,  unpublished  during  his  life  time,  referred  to  his  greatest 
tragedy,  the  death  of  his  wife,  Frances,  in  1861.  Her  dress  caught  fire 
from  a  lighted  match  and  she  died  from  the  shock,  Longfellow,  himself, 
receiving  such  severe  injuries  in  attempting  to  save  her  that  he  could 
not  attend  her  funeral. 

Further  personal  anxiety  was  brought  to  him  during  the  Civil  War 
when  his  eldest  son,  Charles,  who  was  serving  in  the  cavalry,  was 
wounded  in  the  Battle  of  the  Wilderness  and  Longfellow,  like  Holmes, 
went  south  to  bring  him  home.  When  Longfellow  wrote  the  poem  "To 
a  Child"  in  1845,  he  had  described  the  adventurous  spirit  already  shown 
by  his  little  son,  who  justified  his  premonitions  by  wandering  over  most 
of  Asia.  His  other  son,  Ernest,  described  in  "The  Castle  Builder"  was  an 
artist  who  painted  the  portraits  of  his  father  and  his  sister,  Edith,  now 
in  the  Longfellow  house.  Edith  and  her  sisters  were  celebrated  in  "The 
Children's  Hour." 

Longfellow's  belief  that  what  is  best  in  poetry  is  the  universal  concep- 
tion is  illustrated  in  those  poems  which  reflect  his  interpretations  of 
foreign  cultures.  They  consist  of  direct  translations,  of  original  poems 
inspired  by  other  literatures,  by  scenes  he  visited  or  by  legends  or 
history  of  foreign  countries. 

Longfellow  began  his  first  European  experience  in  France  where  he 
landed  in  1826,  and  through  which  he  travelled  until  he  entered  Spain, 
early  in  1827.  He  paid  three  other  visits  to  France  in  1835,  1842  and  1868. 
His  scholarly  interest  resulted  in  papers  in  The  North  American  Review, 
"The  Origin  and  Progress  of  the  French  Language,"  19  which  became 
"The  Trouveres"  in  Ontre-Mer.  This  is  quite  as  much  a  literary  article 
as  a  scholarly  one.  His  article  on  "Ancient  French  Romances"  was  a 
translation  from  the  French  of  Paulin  Paris,  but  the  versions  of  the  poetic 
illustrations  were  by  Longfellow.  His  continued  interest  in  French  is 
illustrated  in  his  account  of  the  progress  of  the  French  language  in 
England  after  the  Norman  Conquest.20  Professor  Edmond  Esteve  in  his 
interesting  article  on  "Longfellow  et  la  France"21  divides  the  transla- 
tions  into  two  groups;  first  those  from  medieval  French  literature,  such 
as  the  episode  from  the  Chanson  dc  Roland,  or  from  rondeaus  by  Charles 
d'Orleans  or  by  Froissart,  or  the  ode  to  Richelieu  by  iMalherbe,  and 
second,  those  from  modern  French  literature,  such  as  "The  Blind  Girl 
of  Castel  Cuille,"  by  Jacques  Jasmin,  "The  Angel  and  the  Child,"  by 


19  Vol.  32  (April,  1831),  pp.  277-317. 

20  North  Artier.  Review,  Vol.  51   (Oct.  1840),  pp.  285-308. 

21  Published  by  Bovvdoin  College,  Brunswick,  Me.,  1925. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  337 

Jean  Reboul,  or  a  eulogy  on  wine  by  Charles  Coran,  who  arc  "auteurs  tres 
secondaire."  Indeed,  while  there  are  thirty-two  translations  from  the 
French,  there  is  no  masterpiece. 

There  are  six  original  poems  which  reveal  Longfellow's  interest  in 
French  scenes  or  literature.  "The  Old  Clock  on  the  Stairs"  was  prompted 
by  a  sentence  from  Jacques  Bridaine,  to  the  effect  "Eternity  is  a  pen- 
dulum, speaking  these  two  words— Forever,  Never."  Longfellow  applied 
them  to  the  striking  of  the  clock  in  Pittsfield,  another  example  of 
mingled  foreign  and  native  inspiration.  "Oliver  Basselin"  is  an  appealing- 
poem  of  the  Norman  poet  whose  songs  have  outlived  nobles  and  abbots 
in  the  heart  of  the  people.  "The  Baron  of  St.  Castine,"  one  of  the  Tales 
of  a  Wayside  Inn  is  hardly  one  of  the  best  of  that  collection.  Some 
American  critics  could  be  enlightened  by  a  study  of  the  influence  of 
Longfellow  in  France,  where  Evangeline  is  a  classic  taught  in  the  schools, 
and  where,  as  a  French  critic  of  distinction  has  said,  he  has  revealed 
to  the  French  the  two  characteristics  of  the  genius  of  America,  the 
aspiration  for  the  ideal  and  the  love  of  action. 

Longfellow's  personal  contact  with  Spain  was  limited  to  his  only  visit, 
from  March  to  November,  1827.  His  father's  belief  that  the  growing 
interest  in  the  Spanish-American  republics  made  it  necessary  for  Long- 
fellow to  gain  a  knowledge  of  the  language  prompted  the  visit,  but 
Spain  soon  captured  Longfellow  and  led  to  his  first  published  book  of 
importance  and  the  last  poem  he  wrote.  He  never  returned  because  he 
was  unwilling  to  break  the  spell  of  that  early  time.22  His  impressions  of 
Spain  are  given  in  his  journals  and  in  Outre-Mer.  In  his  review  of  Sidney's 
Defense  of  Poesy,  the  only  illustration  of  foreign  poetry  which  he  uses 
to  support  his  own  defence  of  poetry  comes  from  the  Spanish,  "The 
Brook."  23 

His  first  translation,  "From  the  Spanish  of  Luis  de  Gongora,"  24 
appeared  in  the  New  England  Magazine  in  July,  183 1.  Of  these  early 
translations,  the  most  important  was  his  version  of  the  Coplas  of  Jorge 
Manrique,  (1833).  This  poem  of  the  fifteenth  century  was  a  celebration 
of  the  author's  father  and  through  his  career,  of  the  chivalry  and  moral 
force  of  the  heroes  of  Gothic  Spain.  According  to  a  modern  Spanish 
critic,  "The  English  version  has  that  pure  and  appropriate  simplicity  of 
the  biblical  songs,  but  it  lacks  the  grave  majesty,  the  solemn  and  profound 
tone  of  the  original."  25  The  volume  contains  also  seven  sonnets,  by  Lope 
de  Vega,  Francisco  de  Aldana,  and  others,  and  an  introduction  on  "The 

22  Life,  Vol.  1,  p.  134. 

23  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  34  (Jan.,  1832),  p.  74. 

24  Usually  referred  to  as  "Let  Me  Go  Warm,"  although  that  is  not  the  title  of  the 
poem,  but  only  a  motto  or  heading. 

25  M.  Romera-Navarro,  El  Hispanismo  en  Norteamerica  (Madrid,  1917) .  English 
translation  by  the  author. 


338  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Moral  and  Devotional  Poetry  of  Spain."  26  The  latter  was  reprinted  in 
Outre-Mer  in  which  his  "Ancient  Spanish  Ballads"  was  also  included, 
containing  Longfellow's  translation  of  three  of  the  stirring  originals. 
There  were  altogether  thirtv-one  translations  from  the  Spanish. 

Of  the  nine  original  poems  inspired  by  Spanish  scenes,  characters  or 
legends,  the  best  is  The  Spanish  Student  (1842).  In  Longfellow's  Journals 
of  1840  we  find  enthusiastic  references  to  his  reading  Spanish  dramas 
preparatory  to  his  lectures.  In  the  Introduction  to  the  play,  Longfellow 
mentions  the  tale  of  Cervantes,  La  Gitanilla,  as,  in  part,  his  source,  and 
also  three  plays27  which  differ  entirely  from  his  in  the  treatment  of  the 
theme.  In  both  Cervantes  and  Longfellow,  Preciosa,  a  nobleman's 
daughter,  is  stolen. by  gypsies,  and  trained  to  be  a  dancer.  There  are 
similar  situations  like  that  of  the  disguised  lover,  and  Preciosa  is  discovered 
to  be  of  good  family  so  she  and  her  lover  are  married. 

But,  as  usual  with  Longfellow,  the  best  characters  and  the  poetry  are 
his  own.  Victorian's  love  for  Preciosa  and  his  distrust  of  her  when  he 
finds  Count  Lara  in  her  apartments  is  naturally  portrayed.  Hypolito, 
Victorian's  friend,  Count  Lara  and  Chispa,  the  comic  servant,  are  very 
real.  The  scene  in  which  Preciosa  charms  the  Cardinal  and  the  Archbishop 
who  have  been  selected  as  her  censors,  and  that  in  the  theatre  where 
the  friends  of  Lara  create  a  tumult  to  force  her  from  the  stage,  would  act 
well.  The  way  in  which  Hypolito  and  Lara,  from  different  points  of 
view,  try  to  prevent  Victorian's  marriage  with  Preciosa  shows  a  con- 
siderable skill  in  plot  construction.  The  Spanish  Student  was  not  pro- 
duced, but  it  is  superior  to  many  plays  of  the  period  that  did  see  the 
stage,  and  it  was  the  unfortunate  condition  of  the  theatre  which  made 
Bird  leave  the  profession  of  dramatist  at  the  height  of  his  success,  that 
prevented  Longfellow's  play  from  professional  production.  Ironically, 
it  was  produced  at  the  ducal  Court  of  Dessau  in  1855,  in  the  German 
translation  by  Karl  Bottger. 

"Torquemada,"   in   the    Tales   of   a    Wayside   Inn   is,    as   Longfellow 
himself  said,  "a  dismal  story  of  fanaticism"  and  has  little  to  redeem  it. 
Among  the  seven  shorter  lyrics  "The  Secret  of  the  Sea,"  though  reveal- 
ing Longfellow's  love  of  the  sea,  is  hardly  in  the  same  class  as  "The 
Building  of  the  Ship."  The  best  of  the  short  lyrics  are  "Castles  in  Spain," 
which  shows  how    even  in   1877  the  love  of  Spanish  romance  remained 
with  him,  and  "The  Bells  of  San  Bias,"  his  last  poem,  ending- 
Out   of   the    shadows   of   night 
The  world  rolls  into  light 
It  is  daybreak  everywhere! 

26  First  printed  as  "Spanish  Devotional  and  Moral  Poetry,"  North  Avicr.  Review, 
Vol.  34  (April,  1832),  pp.  277-315.  f 

27  La  Gitanilla,  by  Juan  Perez  de   Alontalvaiv,   Antonio  de  Solis  y  Rivadeneira  s 
La  Gitanilla  de  Madrid,  and  The  Spanish  Gypsy  by  Middleton  and  Rowley. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  339 

The  indirect  influence  of  Spanish  literature  is  found  in  his  well-known 
lines: 

Tell  me  not  in  mournful  numbers 
Life  is  but  an  empty  dream, 

a  denial  of  lines  often  repeated  in  Calderon,  "La  Vida  es  Sueno." 

The  strongest  European  influence  upon  Longfellow  came  from  Italy. 
He  visited  the  country  in  1827  and  again  in  1868.  "I  have  a  strong  predi- 
lection for  the  Italians,"  he  said.  "I  love  the  skies  above  their  heads  and 
the  ground  beneath  their  feet."  28  Counting  the  translations  of  the 
Inferno,  Purgatorio  and  Paradiso  as  three  poems,  there  were  twenty 
translations  from  the  Italian  and  twenty-four  original  poems  inspired  in 
whole  or  part  by  his  interest  in  Italy.  These  began  with  his  poem  on 
"Italian  Scenery,"  in  the  United  States  Literary  Gazette  in  1824  and  ended 
with  a  portion  of  Michael  Angelo  in  1881.  His  scholarship  is  evidenced 
in  his  extensive  treatment  of  the  "History  of  the  Italian  Language  and 
Dialects"  in  the  North  American  Revieiv.2Q 

His  translation  of  Dante's  Divina  Commedia  began  in  1839  when  he 
selected  three  episodes  from  the  Purgatorio,  "The  Celestial  Pilot,"  "The 
Terrestrial  Paradise"  and  "Beatrice,"  which  were  published  in  Voices  of 
the  Night.  In  1843,  he  mentions  in  a  letter  to  Freiligrath  that  he  has 
translated  sixteen  cantos,  and  there  are  constant  references  to  Dante  in 
his  Journals  before  he  began  the  continuous  work  of  translation.  He  com- 
pleted the  Inferno,  April  16,  1863,  the  Purgatorio  and  the  Paradiso  having 
been  previously  finished,  but  the  work  was  not  published  complete  until 
May,  1867.  He  had  the  benefit  of  criticism  from  Lowell  and  Norton 
while  reading  the  proof  sheets.  Longfellow's  translation  is,  as  Lowell 
said  in  his  essay  on  Dante,  "the  best  in  English."  By  adopting  the  form  of 
the  terza  rima,  without  actually  fettering  the  translation  by  end  rime, 
he  preserved  the  meaning.  The  liquid  vowel  endings  of  the  Italian  could 
not  have  been  transferred  to  English. 

One  of  the  highest  moments  of  the  Inferno,  in  the  Fifth  Canto,  when 
Francesca  da  Rimini  speaks  to  Dante 

Nessun   maggior   dolore 
Che  ricordarsi  del  tempo  felice 
Nella  miseria 

became  in  Longfellow's  version 

There   is   no   greater   sorrow 
Than  to  be  mindful  of  the  happy  time 
In  misery. 

28  Life,  Vol.  2,  p.  199. 

29  Vol.  35  (Oct.,  1832),  pp.  283-342. 


340  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Realizing  how  the  melody  of  the  Italian  vowel  sounds  is  partly  lost, 
could  it  be  better  said? 

To  be  a  great  translator,  the  poet  must  be  in  sympathy  with  the 
creator  of  the  original.  Dante's  poem  is  typical  of  the  Gothic  cathedral 
with  the  spires  rising  out  of  the  faith  and  aspiration  of  a  race.  Longfellow 
was  able  to  enter  into  the  spirit  of  a  poet  who  was  led  first  by  his  master 
Virgil,  symbol  of  Moral  Philosophy,  out  of  the  world  of  Pride,  Lust  and 
Greed,  until  he  meets  in  the  Purgatorio,  Beatrice,  representing  Divine 
Wisdom  or  Theology,  who  leads  him  through  the  ten  heavens  of  Para- 
dise finally  to  "the  Love  which  moves  the  Sun  and  the  other  Stars."  It 
is  the  poet,  Longfellow,  even  more  than  the  translator,  who  is  able  to 
picture  the  great  climax  of  the  Purgatorio  in  Canto  XXXI,  when  Beatrice, 
at  the  request  of  the  "other  three,"  unveils  her  face  to  Dante 

so  that  he  may  discern 
The  second  beauty  which  thou  dost  conceal, 
The  splendor  of  the  living  light  eternal! 

Dante  was  as  devoted  an  Italian  as  Longfellow  was  an  American,  but 
he  could  rise  to  a  universal  conception  which  made  him  a  world  artist, 
just  as  Longfellow's  refusal  to  become  an  intellectual  provincial  has  led 
to  his  wide  and  continued  acceptance  by  all  cultivated  audiences. 

Next  in  importance  among  the  translations  are  the  sonnets  "To  Italy," 
from  Vincenzo  da  Filicaja,  and  the  "Seven  Sonnets  and  a  Canzone,"  from 
Michael  Angelo.  They  are  introductions  to  Longfellow's  original  dramatic 
poem,  Michael  Angelo,  which,  though  unfinished,  is  one  of  his  finest 
creations.  He  had  conceived  the  idea  as  early  as  1850,  perhaps  inspired 
by  his  reading  of  Mrs.  Jameson's  Sacred  and  Legendary  Art,  and  had 
even  written  Part  III,  Scene  4,  but  it  was  not  until  1872  that  he  began 
in  earnest  to  read  such  authorities  as  Hermann  Grimm's  Life  of  Michael 
Angelo,  Giorgio  Vasari's  Lives  of  the  Painters,  Sculptors  and  Architects, 
the  Memoirs  of  Benvenuto  Cellini,  and  Mrs.  Jameson's  Memoirs  of  Early 
Italian  Painters*0 

As  usual,  he  assimilated  his  background  sources,  but  the  main  characters 
are  born  of  his  deep  admiration  for  Michael  Angelo,  painter,  sculptor, 
architect,  and  poet,  for  Vittoria  Colonna,  symbol  of  womanly  nobility, 
and  constancy,  of  Julia  Gonzaga,  equally  constant  but  still  ardent  con- 
cerning life  and  "the  illusions  that  lift  us  from  the  commonplace  of  life 
to  better  things."  As  contrasts  to  the  main  character,  there  are  Cardinal 

30  Longfellow  mentions  these  in  his  Journals  in  Anarch,  1872;  also  Asconio  Condivi's 
Life  of  Michael  Angelo.  Notes  to  the  Riverside  Edition  are  helpful.  E.  Goggio,  in 
"The  Sources  of  Longfellow's  Michael  Angelo"  Romantic  Review,  Vol.  25  (Oct.- 
Dcc.,  1934),  pp.  314-324,  gives  detailed  comparisons  between  Longfellow's  poem 
and  these  and  some  minor  sources,  such  as  Juan  de  Valdes,  Alfabeto  Christiano.  He 
concludes,  properly,  with  the  statement  that  Longfellow  has  not  merely  compiled 
facts  but  has  vividly  presented  to  us  certain  phases  of  that  fascinating  and  most 
interesting  age  known  as  the  Italian  Renaissance. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  341 

Ippolito,  poet  and  churchman,  Cellini,  warrior  and  artificer,  and  a  number 
of  other  historical  characters.  Perhaps  there  are  too  many,  for  Long- 
fellow, himself,  recognized  a  lack  of  unity  in  the  project  even  before  he 
commenced  it.  But  the  poetry,  rich  with  figures,  the  revelations  of 
character,  lofty  in  achievement  yet  modest  in  their  very  self-confidence, 
or  stinging  in  their  criticism  of  whatever  is  base  or  banal,  the  discussion 
of  the  arts,  all  establish  the  supremacy  of  the  artist.  Longfellow  brought 
to  the  composition  of  this  poem  not  only  specific  historical  sources  but 
also  his  wide  reading  of  Petrarch  and  other  Italian  literature,  and  an 
understanding  of  the  Latin  nature  rare  in  the  New  England  of  his  day. 
Michael  Angelo  was  found  in  his  desk  after  his  death  and  was  published 
first  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  for  January,  February,  and  March,  1883. 
Into  that  longing  of  Vittoria  for  her  dead  mate,  Longfellow  put  his 
own  grief,  not  only  in  Michael  Angelo,  but  also  in  the  lyric,  "Vittoria 
Colonna," 

Till  the  o'erburdened  heart  so  long 
Imprisoned  in  itself,  found  vent 

And  voice  in  one  impassioned  song 
Of  inconsolable  lament. 

This  poem  was  inspired  also  by  his  visit  to  Ischia  in  1829  31  and  1869. 
This  later  visit  inspired  his  "Cadenabbia,"  "Monte  Cassino,"  and  "Amalfi." 
Among  his  other  poems  dealing  with  Italian  themes,  the  most  effective 
are  "King  Robert  of  Sicily,"  the  story  of  the  angel  who  took  the  king's 
place,32  and  "The  Falcon  of  Ser  Federigo," 33  a  story  of  sacrifice,  both 
in  the  Tales  of  a  Wayside  Inn. 

Longfellow's  one  visit  to  Scandinavia  came  in  1835  when  he  spent  the 
summer  months  studying  the  Swedish  and  Danish  languages.  Hearing 
a  Danish  national  air  by  Evald,  he  translated  it,  as  "King  Christian,"  one 
of  the  most  vigorous  of  his  translations.  On  his  return,  Longfellow 
published  in  the  North  American  Review  an  analysis  of  Frithiofs  Saga, 
by  Bishop  Tegner,  in  which  he  included  three  extensive  verse  transla- 
tions of  passages  of  the  heroic  poem.  This  led  to  the  request  by  the 
Swedish  poet  to  translate  his  Nattvardsbarnen,  with  which  Longfellow 
complied.  He  was  somewhat  doubtful  of  his  success  with  "The  Children 
of  the  Lord's  Supper,"  but  the  picture  of  Swedish  religious  life  was 
faithful  and  the  hexameters  were  a  preliminary  trial  of  the  measure  of 
Evangeline.  Of  the  remaining  translations,  from  the  Scandinavian,  "The 
Mother's  Ghost,"  from  the  Danish,34  is  the  best.  It  rings  with  the  stark 
simplicity  of  the  old  ballad. 

31  See  letter  to  Greene,  Life,  Vol.  3,  p.  269. 

32  Originally  from  the  Gesta  Romanorum.  Longfellow  seems  to  have  used  Leigh 
Hunt's  A  Jar  of  Honey  from  Mt.  Hybla. 

33  From  Boccaccio's  Decamerone,  Fifth  Day,  Tale  9. 

34  Included  in  Tales  of  the  Wayside  Inn.  The  original  may  be  found  in  Gruntvig's 
Danmarks  Gamle  Folkeviser,  Vol.  2,  p.  478. 


342  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Much  more  important  was  his  original  poem— The  Saga  of  King  Olaf 
(i860),  based  upon  Heimskringla  (c.1235),  "the  world's  circle,"  by 
Snorre  Sturluson,  the  Icelandic  historian  of  the  Norse  Kings.  Longfellow 
used  the  English  translation  of  Samuel  Laing  (1844),  but  was  familiar 
with  Swedish  and  Danish  translations  from  the  Old  Norse.  He  had  written 
in  1849  "The  Challenge  of  Thor,"  a  short  poem  which  he  made  the  intro- 
duction to  the  Saga,  and  of  which  one  stanza  expresses  the  Nordic  pagan 
philosophy: 

Force  rules  the  world  still, 
Has  ruled  it,  shall  rule  it; 
Meekness  is  weakness, 
Strength  is  triumphant 
Over  the  whole  earth 
Still  it  is  Thor's-Day! 

In  Canto  II,  King  Olaf  Trygvason  (968-1000),  returns  from  exile  to 
establish  Christianity  in  Norway,  by  forcible  methods,  and  his  reply, 
"I  accept  thy  challenge,  Thor!"  began  a  stirring  account  of  his  struggle 
with  paganism. 

Longfellow  rarely,  if  ever,  revealed  so  well  his  ability  to  compress  a 
prose  account  into  poetry.  In  eighty-four  short  lines  he  deals  with  Olaf's 
years  of  wanderings,  and  omits  tedious  accounts  of  the  eternal  battles 
of  the  Norsemen  and  the  Danes.  With  quick,  sure  strokes  he  builds  up 
the  characters  of  King  Olaf,  of  Queen  Sigrid,  the  haughty,  of  his  insult 
to  her  and  her  oath  of  revenge.  He  caught  the  spirit  of  the  old  ballad  by 
the  use  of  metres  which  reflect  the  Old  English  short  line  in  its  strong 
accentual  quality. 

If  he  omitted  long  stretches  of  dullness,  he  could  also  dramatize  inci- 
dents such  as  the  banishing  of  the  trolls,  the  appearance  of  Odin's  wraith, 
the  conversion  of  the  "bonders,"  or  farmers,  and  the  destruction  of  the 
old  gods.  Longfellow  made  out  of  the  attempted  revenge  of  Gudrun, 
the  daughter  of  the  leaders  of  the  bonders,  a  canto  almost  entirely  his 
own,  in  which  Gudrun's  deep  feeling  changes  her  from  a  name  to  a 
woman,  when,  on  her  bridal  night  with  Olaf,  she  rises  in  the  moonlight 
to  stab  her  father's  slayer.  In  "King  Olaf's  Christmas,"  Longfellow 
painted  a  vigorous  picture  of  the  way  in  which  Olaf  fused  the  sword 
of  the  Vikings  and  the  cross  of  Christ  into  a  living  symbol,  cast  upon  the 
walls  of  the  banquet  hall  by  the  rising  sun  of  a  new  era. 

Longfellow  changed  the  order  of  the  incidents  to  bring  out  the  motives 
of  the  characters  and  unify  the  plot  of  the  episodic  tales,  as  the  marriage 
of  Olaf  to  Queen  Thyri  and  the  long-brooded  revenge  of  Sigrid  bring 
against  each  other  the  forces  of  Norway,  Sweden  and  Denmark.  The 
language  of  the  fine  climax  of  the  Saga  is  largely  Longfellow's,  but  he 
knew,  too,  how  to  select  the  very  phrases  of  the  original  when  they 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  343 

were  effective.  Einar,  Olaf's  foremost  bowman,  turns  to  his  king  when 
his  bow  is  shattered  by  a  shaft  from  Earl  Eric's  ship,  and  says  simply: 

"That  was  Norway  breaking 
From  thy  hand,  O  King!" 

The  last  canto,  entirely  Longfellow's,  ends  with  the  conquest  of  Thor: 

Love   is   eternal! 
God  is  still  God,  and 
His  faith  shall  not  fail  us: 
Christ  is  eternal! 

The  influence  of  Germany  began  with  Longfellow's  stay  at  Gottingen 
in  1829,  but  his  chief  interest  at  that  time  was  still  in  the  Romance 
languages  and  his  more  serious  study  of  the  Germanic  languages  began 
on  his  second  visit  to  Europe,  in  1835,  made  in  preparation  for  his  lectures 
at  Harvard.  In  Hyperion,  several  months'  study  at  Heidelberg  are  epit- 
omized in  his  own  words  at  the  end  of  Book  One  and  in  his  Journals*5 

In  1842  he  spent  several  months  at  Marienberg  in  search  of  health. 
There  are  twenty-four  complete  and  published  translations  from  German 
poetry,  besides  numerous  published  and  unpublished  quotations  .of  in- 
dividual passages.  The  best  poems  are  naturally  Goethe's  "Wanderer's 
Night  Songs,"  in  its  later  version;  Heine's  "The  Sea  Hath  Its  Pearls," 
and  the  anonymous  "Forsaken."  But  there  is  no  masterpiece  of  transla- 
tion from  the  German,  although  its  influence  was  strong,  especially  in 
the  earlier  years.  Goethe,  Richter,  Uhland  and  Heine  were  read  at  an 
impressionable  age.  The  direct  German  influence  has  been  overestimated, 
for  example,  that  of  Hermann  unci  Dorothea  upon  Evangeline,  in  which 
not  a  line  is  identical.  Nor  does  "Art  is  long,  and  time  is  fleeting,"  in 
"A  Psalm  of  Life"  come  from  Goethe's  line  in  Faust,  but  from  the  original 
in  Hippocrates.86  Dr.  Hatfield  has  shown  clearly  how  often  Longfellow 
is  charged  with  taking  ideas  from  German  sources  which  he  already 
possessed.57  The  general  influence  of  Goethe  is  clear  enough  without 
the  efforts  of  Teutonic  scholarship  to  invent  similarities. 

In  The  Golden  Legend,  an  original  poem,  Lucifer  is  plainly  derived 
from  Mephistopheles,  and  the  opening  soliloquy  of  Prince  Henry,  as 
well  as  other  features  of  the  poem  have  certain  similarities  to  passages  in 
Faust.  The  Golden  Legend  has  already  been  analyzed  as  part  of  Christus. 
Of  the  shorter  poems,  "Nuremberg"  had  the  authentic  ring  of  Long- 
fellow's democratic  celebration  of  the  greater  permanence  of  painters  and 
poets  to  Councils  and  Kaiser,  and  of  "The  nobility  of  labor— the  long 

35  An  extensive  list  of  his  reading  is  given  in  James  T.  Hatfield,  New  Light  on 
Longfellow  (1933),  Appendix  B. 

36  Outre-Mer,  p.  235. 

37  See  Hatfield,  Longfellow,  pp.  102-104;  106-107. 


344  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

pedigree  of  toil."  But  it  is  curious  that  from  his  profound  knowledge 
of  German  literature  so  few  poems  of  significance  emerge.  Perhaps  he 
had  put  his  best  effort  into  Hyperion. 

Longfellow's  thorough  knowledge  of  foreign  languages  was  of  greatest 
service  in  the  enrichment  of  his  own  poetry.  He  took  from  each  language 
what  was  dictated  by  the  qualities  of  his  own  nature:  the  Saga  of  King 
Olaf  by  the  man  who  stopped  the  undergraduate  riot  at  Harvard,  the 
Michael  An  gel  o  by  the  man  who  had  suffered. 

Indeed  it  is  probable  that  Longfellow  gave  more  to  Europe  than  he 
took  from  her.  The  imposing  list 38  of  translations,  in  all  European  and 
some  Asiatic  languages,  reveal  how  far  above  any  other  American  has 
been  his  popularity  and  influence.  This  list  includes  some  708  translations 
into  24  different  languages;  203  into  Italian;  186  into  German;  97  into 
French;  50  into  Swedish;  31  into  Spanish;  21  into  Danish;  and  lesser 
numbers  into  other  languages.  They  include  130  translations  of  the 
Collected  Works  into  15  languages.  Of  the  separate  poems,  there  are  90 
translations  of  Evangeline;  53  of  Hiawatha;  38  of  "Excelsior;"  37  of 
"A  Psalm  of  Life";  and  19  of  The  Courtship  of  Miles  Standish.  Even 
more  impressive  than  the  number  of  translations  is  the  wide  variety  of 
the  poets  who  have  been  affected  by  him.  Those  critics  who  still  smile 
at  "A  Psalm  of  Life"  may  be  surprised  to  know  that  Baudelaire  built  his 
well-known  sonnet  "Le  Guignon"  upon  it,  whose  beginning  reads: 

Pour  soulever  un  poids  si  lourd, 
Sisyphe,  il  faudrait  ton  courage. 
Bien  qu'on  ait  du  coeur  a  l'ouvrage, 
L'art  est  long,  et  le  temps  est  court. 

Loin  des  sepultures  celebres, 

Vers  un  cimetiere  isole 

Mon  coeur,  comme  un  tambour  voile, 

Va  battant  des  marches  funebres; 

The  influence  of  Longfellow  upon  American  poets  has  been  so  large 
that  a  simple  recapitulation  would  read  like  an  index  to  our  poetry.  Some- 
times this  influence  has  been  publicly  acknowledged  as  in  Robert  Frost's 
volume,  A  Boy's  Will;  more  often  it  has  been  less  obvious,  as  in  E.  A. 
Robinson's  "Wife  of  Palissy."  Bret  Harte  acknowledged  it  directly  to 
Longfellow  in  his  letters.  Usually  it  has  been  absorbed  and  is  reflected 
in  the  clarity  of  the  poets'  works. 

38  The  most  complete  list  of  foreign  translations  has  been  compiled  by  Air.  Henry 
Wadsworth  Longfellow  Dana,  and  is  now  to  be  found  in  the  card  catalogue  of  the 
Longfellow  House  in  Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  I  am  indebted  to  his  courtesy  for 
permission  to  reproduce  his  figures,  as  of  September,  1947.  These  supersede  all 
earlier  lists  as  given  in  the  Life,  Higginson,  or  Alorin.  Recent  figures  compiled  by 
John  E.  Englckirk,  "Notes  on  Longfellow  in  Spanish  America,"  Hispania,  Vol.  25 
( 1942),  pp.  295-308,  give  249  translations  of  his  poems. 


WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY  345 


Longfellow's  visit  to  Europe  in  1868-69  xvas  an  occasion  of  "over- 
whelming hospitality,"  as  he  wrote  to  Airs.  J.  T.  Fields.  He  received 
honorary  degrees  from  Cambridge  md  Oxford.  As  his  visit  drew  near, 
the  Loudon  T ivies  remarked  that  "he  is  not  less  the  poet  of  the  people 
than  a  chosen  companion  of  the  cultured  and  refined;  and  his  words  are 
in  the  mouths  of  thousands  to  whom  our  own  Tennyson  is  only  partiallv 
familiar  and  to  whom  Browning  is  an  unknown  name."  39  Seventy  differ- 
ent British  publishers  brought  out  one  or  more  volumes  of  his  poetry 
up  to  1 90 1,  in  281  editions.  The  Collected  Poems  was  the  most  frequently 
issued,  with  Evangeline  the  most  popular  individual  poem.  His  lyrics 
have  been  constantly  set  to  music  and  it  is  striking  that  the  "Wedding 
Feast,"  the  death  of  Minnehaha  and  "Hiawatha's  Departure,"  which 
Coleridge  Taylor  selected  for  choral  orchestration,  are  the  least  dependent 
upon  Longfellow's  sources  in  Hiawatha.  In  1877,  in  addition  to  many  other 
honors,  some  of  which  he  declined,  Longfellow  was  elected  a  member  of 
the  Spanish  Academy. 

Besides  the  poems  already  discussed,  came  his  Flower-de-luce  (1867) 
with  its  fine  tribute  to  Hawthorne.  The  Masque  of  Pandora  (1875), 
interpreting  the  classical  story  with  beauty  though  not  with  the  profound 
meaning  which  Moody  later  achieved,  contained  "Thalia,"  one  of  his 
finest  sonnets,  and  "The  Hanging  of  the  Crane"  (1874),  a  sympathetic 
picture  of  the  fifty  years  of  domestic  happiness  denied  to  him.  How 
calm  was  the  courage  with  which  he  faced  old  age  is  seen  in  his  magni- 
ficent "Morituri  Salutamus,"  written  for  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  his  class 
at  Bowdoin  College,  but  going  far  beyond  the  occasion  to  express  the 
philosophy  of  one  who  knew  that  life  was  given  to  us  for  the  unremitting 
effort  which  fills  youth  with  fire  and  faces  death  with  serenity.  It  was 
his  last  great  poem.  Later  volumes,  Keramos  and  Other  Poems  (1878), 
Ultima  Thule  (1880),  and  the  posthumous  volume  In  the  Harbor  (1882), 
contained  graceful  tributes  to  other  poets,  but  except  for  the  sonnets 
already  discussed,  no  notable  poems. 

He  died  of  peritonitis,  March  24,  1882,  and  the  nation  whose  life  and 
legends  he  has  immortalized  shared  its  grief  with  the  world,  especially 
with  another  nation,  which  placed  his  bust  in  Westminster  Abbey,  the 
first  American  to  join  the  ranks  of  the  great  British  creators  of  universal 
beauty.  It  was  significant  that  the  sponsors  of  the  bust  had  simply 
"Longfellow"  cut  into  the  stone,  secure  in  their  belief  in  his  immortality. 

It  was  unfortunate,  from  a  critical  standpoint,  that  Longfellow  chose 
to  put  into  "The  Day  Is  Done"  a  comparison  between  two  forms  of  poetic 
achievement.  It  has  been  seized  upon  as  self-revelation  and  even  some  of 
his  admirers  have  been  content  to  banish  him  from  the  "bards  sublime" 
and  complacently  to  point  to  the  stanza 

39  June  10,  1868.  Quoted  in  Gohdes,  American  Literature  in  Nineteenth-Century 
England  (1944),  p.  101. 


346  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Read  from  some  humbler  poet 
Whose  songs  gushed  from  his  heart 

As  showers  from  the  clouds  of  summer, 
Or  tears  from  the  eyelids  start; 

as  containing  an  epitome  of  Longfellow's  contribution  to  literature. 
Such  a  poet  Longfellow  w7as  at  times;  perhaps  if  he  had  died  in  1844 
when  kkThe  Day  Is  Done"  was  written,  it  might  have  served  for  an 
epitaph. 

But  Longfellow  did  not  die  in  1844.  There  were  still  to  come  the 
deeper,  sadder,  yet  greater  experiences  which  enabled  him  to  see,  beneath 
the  surface  of  his  nation's  life,  undisturbed  by  the  ugly  materialism  that 
repelled  Emerson,  the  sturdier  and  lovelier  aspects,  which  like  the  statue 
in  the  block  of  marble,  waited  for  the  hand  of  genius  to  awaken  them. 
There  were  still  the  rich  years,  when  from  far  and  wide,  he  gathered 
the  great  thoughts  of  all  nations,  transmuting  them  into  "Love,  laughter 
and  the  exultant  joy  of  song"  and  making  them,  as  truly  as  Chaucer 
made  Boccaccio  and  Tennyson  made  Mallory,  his  very  own.  From 
memory  to  memory  his  thoughts  have  glided  in  the  hearts  of  many  races. 
But  beneath  the  insistent  glow  of  his  popularity,  there  shines  more  and 
more  steadily  the  permanent  artistry  of  his  rarer  lyrics,  which,  original 
in  conception  and  flawless  in  form,  gave  him  and  have  kept  him,  in  the 
judgment  of  the  discriminating,  his  rightful  place  in  the  forefront  of  the 
poets  of  the  United  States. 


Chapter  21 


THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL 


It  is  inevitable  that  Longfellow  and  Whittier  should  be  compared,  but 
that  comparison,  once  it  leaves  the  poetry  of  locality,  of  history  and  of 
tradition,  becomes  a  contrast.  Whittier  never  had  the  fruitful  experience 
of  European  travel  and  his  belief,  as  he  expressed  it  in  "The  Last  Walk 
in  Autumn,"  was  that 

He  who  wanders  widest  lifts 

No  more  of  Beauty's  jealous  veils 
Than  he  who  from  his  doorway  sees 

The  miracle  of  flowers  and  trees. 

The  consequent  narrowness  of  Whittier's  vision  intensified  his  con- 
cern with  New  England.  His  Quaker  belief  made  him  a  rebel  against 
Puritan  establishment  and  he  was  in  consequence  more  akin  in  some 
respects  to  the  earlier  Puritans  who  had  revolted  against  the  Established 
Church  of  England.  He  was  best  in  attack  just  as  Longfellow  was  best 
in  defence,  and  as  a  "fighting  Quaker"  he  celebrated  constantly  those 
who  were  storming  the  citadels  of  privilege. 

John  Greenleaf  Whittier  was  born  December  17,  1807,  at  Haverhill, 
Massachusetts,  in  a  house  in  which  his  family  had  lived  since  it  was  built 
in  1688— and  on  a  farm  which  they  had  owned  since  1647.  His  parents, 
John  and  Abigail  Hussey  Whittier  have  been  well  described  in  Snow- 
bound. They  were  industrious  independent  farmers,  whose  propertv 
was  not  large  but  who  had  never  worked  for  anyone  else.  His  education 
at  the  district  school  was  scanty  and  the  opportunities  for  reading  were 
few.  Wnittier  mentions  in  his  autobiographical  sketch  3  in  1882  that  his 
teacher  introduced  him  to  the  poetry  of  Burns  and  that  this  inspiration 
was  the  beginning  of  his  own  writing.  He  gained  enough  by  making 
shoes  or  teaching  in  a  district  school  to  take  two  terms  of  six  months 
each  at  the  Haverhill  Academy  in  1827  and  1828.  He  had  already  begun 

1  See  Carpenter,  John  Greenleaf  Whittier  (1903),  Appendix. 

347 


348  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

to  write  verse,  encouraged  by  William  Lloyd  Garrison,  who  printed 
his  first  poem,  "The  Deity,"  in  his  Newbury  Free  Press,  and  Whittier 
continued  to  send  his  efforts  there  or  to  the  Haverhill  Gazette.  Next  to 
Burns  the  strongest  early  influence  upon  Whittier  was  Mrs.  Hemans, 
whose  effusions,  based  upon  her  acquaintance  with  historical  characters, 
probably  led  to  Whittier's  early  verses  upon  "Isabella  of  Austria"  or 
"Judith  at  the  Tent  of  Holofernes."  It  was  a  popular  vogue  at  the  time, 
based  partly  on  the  general  acquaintance  with  the  Bible.  The  effect  upon 
Whittier  was  lasting,  for,  limited  as  his  experience  was,  he  let  his  imagin- 
ation play  upon  the  themes  his  reading  provided,  and  the  paucity  of  his 
regular  education  prevented  him  from  testing  the  validity  of  the  historical 
facts  presented  to  him.  They  were  simply  the  starting  point  of  his 
romantic  fling,  and  he  used  them  to  illustrate  his  own  ideas,  whether 
they  were  his  love  of  freedom,  his  hatred  of  persecution  or  his  fascina- 
tion by  the  Byronic  self-pity  which  was  rampant.  It  is  to  Whittier's 
credit,  however,  that  if  his  early  standards  permitted  him  to  write  these 
verses,  his  later  critical  judgment  kept  most  of  them  out  of  his  published 
volumes  of  poetry.2 

Whittier's  excursion  into  journalism  in  Boston  was  unfortunate,  but 
in  Hartford,  Connecticut,  where  he  was  editor  of  the  New  England 
Weekly  Review,  he  met  a  circle  which  broadened  his  outlook.  His 
father's  illness  and  death  brought  him  back  to  the  farm  in  1832  to  provide 
for  his  mother  and  sisters.  It  was  this  necessity  that  kept  him  a  bachelor, 
and  not  a  "broken  heart"  out  of  which  some  of  his  more  recent  biogra- 
phers have  tried  to  create  a  "love  life"  for  Whittier.  He  was  a  handsome, 
attractive  young  man  and  he  had  nothing  of  the  recluse  about  him,  but 
his  health  had  been  affected  by  too  insistent  toil  on  the  farm,  and  he 
quietly  assumed  responsibilities  not  of  his  own  making,  as  many  others 
have  done. 

He  did  not,  however,  permit  the  farm  to  limit  his  activity  in  writing. 
He  published  in  183 1  his  first  book,  Legends  of  New  England,  a  collec- 
tion of  tales,  eleven  in  verse  and  seven  in  prose.  In  the  "Preface"  Whittier 
states  that  he  "has  attempted  to  present  in  an  interesting  form  some  of 
the  popular  traditions  and  legends  of  New  England.  The  field  is  a  new 
one."  They  deal  with  Indian  massacres,  supernatural  appearances,  perse- 
cutions for  witchcraft,  some  of  which  he  took  from  Cotton  Mather,  and 
a  nostalgic  poem  upon  "The  White  Mountains,"  the  best  of  the  verse. 
"A  Mother's  Revenge,"  a  vivid  picture  of  Mrs.  Duston's  capture  by  the 
Indians  and  her  scalping  of  her  captors  at  night,  is  the  most  striking  of 
the  prose  talcs.  But  it  was  all  apprentice  work. 

2  Several  of  these  verses,  published  in  the  New  England  Magazine  and  elsewhere 
are  printed  in  the  Appendix  to  Vol.  4  of  his  Collected  Works,  with  an  introduction 
revealing  his  regret  that  they  had  to  be  preserved,  at  the  publishers'  request.  Accord- 
ing to  Whittier's  Bibliography  in  the  CHAL,  Vol.  2,  pp.  442-445,  there  are  hundreds 
of  uncollected  verses  never  reprinted  by  Whittier. 


THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  349 

The  next  period  of  Whittier's  life  was  devoted  largely  to  the  cause  of 
Abolition  and  will  be  treated  in  the  discussion  of  the  literature  of  that 
movement.3  It  began  with  his  prose  pamphlet,  Justice  and  Expediency 
(1833),  and  from  then  until  the  slavery  question  was  settled,  he  devoted 
his  major  effort  in  poetry  and  prose  to  its  solution.  His  poetry  of  a  more 
general  nature  naturally  suffered  from  his  abolition  interests.  Attendance 
at  conventions  and  the  editing  of  the  Pennsylvania  Freeman  in  Philadel- 
phia and  of  other  journals  took  toll  of  his  strength  as  well  as  his  time. 
In  1840  he  had  to  retire  once  more  to  his  native  district  and  the  farm 
being  sold,  he  and  his  family  lived  at  Amesbury  for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 

Some  of  the  poetry  of  the  thirties,  such  as  "Mogg  Megone"  (1836), 
a  wild  tale  of  Indian  warfare,  of  murder  and  revenge,  he  relegated  later 
to  appendices.  During  the  forties  and  fifties  his  poetry  matured  in  finish 
and  he  took  a  firmer  grasp  upon  his  material.  It  was  a  period  of  struggle 
and  comparative  poverty,  handicapped  as  he  was  by  ill  health  and  by 
his  adherence  to  Abolition.  Among  the  volumes  of  this  period  Lays  of 
My  Home  (1843),  contained  "Memories,"  a  promise  of  achievement  in 
one  of  his  best  fields,  and  "St.  John,"  again  an  earnest  of  later  excellence. 
With  the  publication  of  the  Poems  of  1849,  Whittier  began  to  receive 
some  remuneration  and  recognition;  a  selection  of  his  poems  was  published 
in  London  in  1852,  and  the  Collected  Edition  in  1857  established  his 
reputation.  He  was  chosen  an  Overseer  of  Harvard  in  1858,  and  his  elec- 
tion to  the  "Saturday  Club"  marked  his  admittance  to  the  circle  of  men 
of  letters  in  New  England. 

Whittier's  creed  prevented  him  from  taking  an  active  part  in  the  Civil 
War.  He  published  a  volume,  In  War  Time  and  Other  Poems,  in  1864, 
but  he  failed  to  see  the  real  issue.  He  was  still  concerned  more  with  slavery 
than  with  the  Union,  but  he  must  have  been  glad  when  he  could  bring 
them  together  in  "Barbara  Frietchie"  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  for  Octo- 
ber, 1863.  He  based  this  poem  upon  a  newspaper  clipping  sent  to  him 
by  the  novelist,  Mrs.  E.  D.  E.  N.  Southworth.  There  probably  was  a 
Barbara  Frietchie  who  waved  a  flag  in  defiance  of  Stonewall  Jackson's 
troops,  but  there  is  no  evidence  that  he  ordered  the  firing  on  the  flag.4 
Of  the  other  Civil  War  poems,  "To  the  Thirty  Ninth  Congress"  (1865), 
urging  fair  measures  to  the  South,  is  the  best. 

Snowbound  (1866)  brought  Whittier  fame  and  ten  thousand  dollars, 
and  in  the  thirteen  issues  of  his  poetry  after  the  Civil  War  he  wisely 
struck  frequently  the  note  to  which  the  success  of  that  poem  pointed 
clearly.  His  seventieth  birthday  was  the  occasion  for  a  tribute  in  which 
the  leading  writers  of  New  England  joined.  He  died  on  a  visit  to  a  friend 
at  Hampton  Falls,  New  Hampshire,  September  7,  1892. 

The  poetry  of  Whittier  that  will  longest  endure  is  that  which  reveals 

3  See  Chapter  25. 

4  See  Samuel  T.  Pickard's  Life  (1894),  Vol.  2,  pp.  454"459- 


35o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

with  fidelity  the  New  England  landscape  and  life.  It  is  hard  to  see  how 
Snowbound  could  be  better  done.  It  is  with  the  radiance  of  a  painting 
rather  than  the  sharp  lines  of  a  photograph  that  Whittier  depicts  the 
family  "shut  in  from  all  the  world  without"  and  defying 

«  i 
The  shrieking  of  the  mindless  wind, 
The  moaning  tree-boughs  swaying  blind, 
And  on  the  glass  the  unmeaning  beat 
Of  ghostly  fingertips  of  sleet. 

One  bv  one  the  characters  emerge  clearly,  all  drawn  from  his  own 
memory,  not  only  of  his  parents,  sisters  and  brother,  and  his  uncle  and 
aunt,  but  also  of  the  schoolteacher  and  the  strange  visitor,  the  prophetess. 
They  all  enjoyed  this  conflict  with  the  storm,  and  the  real  democracy 
shines  out  as  each  farm  shares  in  the  task  of  restoring  the  community  to 
the  outer  world.  Whittier  gave  a  meaning  to  their  community  effort, 
based  on  individuality,  which  provides  a  fine  contrast  with  communism, 
which  results  in  tyranny.  The  poem  expresses  several  of  Whittier's  beliefs, 
including  his  confidence  in  immortality  and  his  pity  for  him 

Who  hath  not  learned,  in  hours  of  faith, 

The  truth  to  flesh  and  sense  unknown, 
That  Life  is  ever  lord  of  Death, 

And  Love  can  never  lose  its  own! 

What  makes  Snowbound  of  unusual  importance  is  its  universal  as 
well  as  its  local  quality.  The  family  he  depicts  can  still  be  found  in  any 
section  of  America.  The  local  inspiration  gave  the  poem  validity;  its 
appeal  to  a  fundamental  instinct  carries  it  into  its  wide  popularity. 

Another  fine  poem  with  a  local  inspiration,  "Tilling  the  BfifiS,"  has  its 
origin  in  the  Old  English  custom  of  requesting  the  bees  not  to  depart 
after  the  death  of  one  of  the  household.  The  measure  is  unusually  effective 
and  Whittier  leads  dramatically  to  the  climax  when  the  returning  lover's 
anticipation  is  crushed  by  the  sight  of  the  choregirl  draping  the  hives 
with  a  shred  of  black. 

To  this  class  belong  also  those  poems  which  reflect  Whittier's  boyhood 
in  a  more  subjective  fashion.  Among  the  best  are  "Memories,"  "My 
Playmate,"  and  "In  School-days,"  in  which  he  gives  us  without  senti- 
mentality the  fragrance  of  a  boy  and  girl  friendship,  the  kind  which 
distance  or  death  cannot  affect,  and  which  flowers  best  in  America. 

Not  clearly  to  be  distinguished  from  the  impulse  to  record  local 
occurrences  was  Whittier's  desire  to  paint  the  New  England  landscape. 
"The  Last  Walk  in  Autumn"  makes  this  clear.  The  scene  lay  in  the 
vallcv  of  the  Alerrimac  River. 


THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  351 

Then  ask  not  why  to  these  bleak  hills 

I  cling,  as  clings  the  tufted  moss, 
To  bear  the  winter's  lingering  chills, 

The  mocking  spring's  perpetual  loss. 
I  dream  of  lands  where  summer  smiles, 
And  soft  winds  blow  from  spicy  isles, 
But  scarce  would  Ceylon's  breath  of  flowers  be  sweet, 
Could  I  not  feel  thy  soil,  New  England,  at  my  feet! 

There  is  at  times  to  Whittier  a  mystical  quality  in  the  landscape.  In 
"Sunset  on  the  Bearcamp": 

But    beauty    seen    is    never    lost, 

God's  colors  all  are  fast; 
The  glory  of  this  sunset  heaven 

Into  my  soul  has  passed. 

Like  Longfellow,  Whittier  dealt  often  with  legend  and  tradition.  He 
treats  the  regret  of  the  Indian  for  his  lost  dornairTin  "TfieHEoImtaTn";  the 
attack  on  the 'settlements  in  "Pentucket";  and  better,  the  description  of 
Indian  customs  in  "The  Bridal  of  Pennacook."  "The  Truce  of  Piscataqua" 
reveals  the  charm  of  the  Indian  life  upon  a  Avhite  woman.  "How  the 
Robin  Came"  is  the  versification  of  an  Algonquin  legend  found  in 
Schoolcraft.  A  comparison  between  this  poem  and  Hiawatha  would 
be  as  unfair  to  Whittier  as  Barrett  Wendell's  attempt  to  show  Whittier's 
superiority  to  Longfellow  on  the  basis  of  the  latter's  Abolition  verses. 
Longfellow  saw  deeply  into  the  nature  of  the  Indian;  Whittier  simply 
skimmed  the  surface. 

Whittier's  treatment  of  witchcraft,  as  in  "The  Witch  of  Wenham,"  or 
"Mabel  Martin,"  is  the  treatment  of  legendary  matter  for  the  sake  of 
something  else,  in  these  cases  a  love  story.  His  hatred  of  persecution  links 
these  with  his  poems  dealing  with  the  persecution  of  the  Quakers.  They 
are  strongest  when,  as  in  "Cassandra  Southwick,"  he  centers  the  interest 
in  one  person  who  is  persecuted.  "In  the  Old  South,"  "The  King's  Mis- 
sive," or  "How  the  Women  Went  from  Dover"  are  not  remarkable. 
Thev  are  vigorous  and  one-sided  and  represent  the  Puritan  in  the  worst 
aspect  of  his  nature.  In  his  treatment  of  the  persecutions,  Longfellow 
showed  more  artistically  how  circumstances  wove  their  chains  around 
the  victims.  He  is  indirectly  an  apologist  for  his  ancestors  as  Whittier  is 
for  his.  Whittier's  longest  poem  on  the  Quakers  is  "The  Pennsylvania 
Pilgrim,"  in  which  he  describes  the  settlement  of  Germantown,  now 
in  Philadelphia.  It  is  a  faithful  transcript  of  life  but  rarely  rises  to  any 
high  level. 

It  would  hardly  be  profitable  to  discuss  in  detail  the  sources  of  Whit- 
tier's poetry  of  legend.  He  read  widely  not  onlv  in  standard  histories 
like  that  of  William  Bradford,   but  also  in  less  obvious  sources,  often 


352  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

first-hand  accounts  of  individual  incidents.  Here  the  prefaces  of  the 
Riverside  Edition  are  so  copious  that  it  is  unnecessary  to  repeat  them. 
He  selected  the  events  from  his  personal  interest.  "The  Prophecy  of 
Samuel  Sewall"  was  written  because  Sewall  was  an  early  Abolitionist. 
''Skipper  Ireson's  Ride"  was  prompted  by  his  hatred  of  cruelty.  In  fact 
the  less  Whittier  depended  in  his  poetry  uponTustory  the  better.  The 
poems  laid  in  the  past  which  have  the  strongest  appeal  today  are  those 
which  depend  upon  the  universal  emotions.  "The  New  Wife  and  the 
Old"  is  a  good  instance  of  his  treatment  of  the  supernatural,  and  "The 
Sisters"  is  a  powerful  ballad  contrasting  the  normal  love  of  one  sister 
with  the  passion  of  another  who  rejoiced  even  in  the  death  of  the  man 
they  both  loved  because  no  one  else  may  have  him.  Several  of  the  poems 
of  tradition  are  concerned  with  the  marriages  of  people  of  different 
stations  in  life,  all  ending  happily.  These  poems  have  been  used  as  an 
argument  for  an  unhappy  love  affair  of  Whittier,  but  there  is  no  proof 
that  this  was  their  inspiration,  and  none  achieved  the  popularity  of 
"Maud  Muller"  in  which  the  tragedy  arises  because  of  the  love  that  feared 
to  overcome  the  barriers  of  economic  disparity.  They  can  all  be  put  down 
to  Whittier's  passion  for  democracy,  but  although  in  his  poem  "Democ- 
racy" (1841),  he  says: 

Beneath  thy  broad  impartial  eye 

How  fade  the  lines  of  caste  and  birth 

Whittier  proceeds  by  the  obliteration  of  caste  rather  than  by  a  dis- 
regard of  it.  Indeed,  any  established  king,  church,  or  government  was  a 
fair  game  for  his  denunciation  if  he  suspected  tyranny,  with  or  without 
grounds  for  it.  He  never  seemed  to  appreciate  tha't  mere  invective  is  un- 
likely to  become  poetry. 

Before  the  Civil  War,  his  patriotic  verse  was  limited  by  his  sectional 
attitude,  and  after  that  was  over,  the  best  of  it,  "Lexington"  (1875),  or 
"Our  Country"  (1883),  are  just  above  the  level  of  his  other  occasional 
verse.  Compared  to  Emerson's  "Concord  Hymn,"  "Lexington"  is  only 
fair.  The  most  striking  lines  in  Whittier's  "Centennial  Hymn" 

Our  fathers'  God,  from  out  whose  hand 
The  centuries  fall  like  grains  of  sand 

are  obviously  taken  from  Poe's  "Dream  within  a  Dream."  These  patriotic 
utterances  represent  the  fatal  willingness  of  Whittier  to  write  occasional 
verse.  Sometimes,  as  in  "The  Landmarks,"  written  to  save  the  Old  South 
Church  in  Boston  from  destruction,  he  strikes  fire,  and  his  poem  is 
superior  to  the  verses  of  Holmes  on  the  same  topic.  Beginning  in  a  crisp 
measure, 

Through  the  streets  of  Marblehead 

Fast  the  red-winged  Terror  sped 


THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  ;53 

he  introduces  the  effective  contrast  between  the  heroic  saving  of  St. 
Michael's  Church  at  Marblehead  from  fire  with  the  danger  of  the  "Old 
South"  being  destroyed  by  business  encroachment,  which  lifts  the  poem 
above  his  usual  level. 

In  his  own  classification  of  his  poetry,  Whittier  included  under  the 
head  of  "Personal  Poems"  his  many  tributes  to  his  friends  or  to  men  and 
women  who  had  played  heroic  parts,  usually  in  the  struggle  for  freedom. 
Like  the  "Occasional  Poems"  they  are  very  uneven.  Of  many,  whose 
names  are  forgotten,  his  praise  seems  now  extreme.  It  is  significant  that 
Whittier  included  one  of  his  finest  efforts,  "Ichabod,"  under  "Personal" 
rather  than  "Anti-Slavery"  poems.  Whittier  was  right— there  is  no  men- 
tion of  slavery  in  "Ichabod";  it  can  be  read  now  simply  as  a  poem  by  one 
who  has  been  an  admirer  of  a  public  character  and  laments  his  apparent 
apostasy  from  the  right  side.  The  less  propaganda,  the  higher  the  poetry 
in  tone.  The  poem  is  too  long  to  quote  entirely  but  a  few  stanzas  will 
show  the  vigor ^of  the  attack,  the  restrained  yet  powerful  protest: 

Let  not  the   land  once  proud  of  him 

Insult  him  now, 
Nor  brand  with  deeper  shame  his  dim, 

Dishonored  brow. 

But  let  its  humbled  sons,  instead 

From  sea  to  lake 
A  long  lament,  as  for  the  dead, 

In  sadness  make. 

Of  all  we  loved  and  honored,  naught 

Save  power  remains; 
A  fallen  angel's  pride  of  thought, 

Still  strong  in  chains. 

All  else  is  gone;  from  those  great  eyes 

The  soul  hath  fled: 
When  faith  is  lost,  when  honor  dies, 

The  man  is  dead! 

In  1880  Whittier,  recognizing  perhaps  that  Wph<;fpr  knew  hei-rer  than 
he  what  had  been  the  proper  course  to  pursue,  wrote  "The  Lost  Occa- 
sidnH  in  praise  of  the  man  he  had  attacked  thirty  years  before.  Among 
the  other  personal  tributes,  "Sumner,"  "The  Prayer  of  Agassiz,"  "Burns," 
and  "Wordsworth"  are  the  best. 

There  is  nothing  that  rises  out  of  the  mass  of  what  Whittier  called 
his  "Songs  of  Labor  and  Reform"  except  "Democracy."  His  last  volume, 
"At  Sundown"  (1890),  contains  dignified  if  not  great  poetry,  in  which 
he  faced  the  approach  of  death  with  calm  courage. 


354  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Whittier's  prose  consists  of  fiction,  historical  narratives,  anti-Slaverv 
writings,  tributes  to  poets  and  reformers,  living  or  dead,  and  criticism. 
Many  of  the  articles  are  brief  messages  to  reform  organizations,  which 
need  no  treatment  here.  The  most  elaborate  article,  Margaret  Smith's 
Journal  (1849),  is  a  fiction  based  on  the  imaginary  diary  of  a  young 
English  girl,  kept  during  1678,  who  visits  her  relatives  in  New  England. 
She  visits  Massachusetts,  Maine  and  what  is  now  Rhode  Island,  and 
finally  returns  to  England.  Several  historical  characters  are  introduced 
but  they  remain  simply  names.  The  story  is  easy  reading  and,  like  the 
other  prose  sketches,  reveals  Whittier's  knowledge  of  New  England 
history  even  better  than  his  poetry.  All  his  fiction,  however,  savors  of 
the  essay  and  in  this  field  there  are  useful  descriptions  of  older  customs, 
like  "Yankee  Gypsies"  or  "Charms  and  Fairy  Faith."  He  had  an  historic 
sense,  even  if  he  did  not  always  possess  historical  accuracy,  and  when 
he  was  inspired  by  a  hatred  of  illiberality,  he  could  write  an  eloquent 
defence  of  Daniel  O'Connell  from  Henry  Clay's  attack  upon  the  Irish 
patriot,  in  which  he  painted  a  vivid  sketch  of  British  oppression.  In  his 
review  of  Macaulay's  History  of  England,  his  love  of  liberty  gave  him  a 
broader  view  of  James  II  than  usually  obtained  at  that  time.  One  can  see 
his  struggle  between  his  dislike  of  Catholicism  and  his  recognition  of  the 
courage  of  King  James  II  in  his  Declaration  of  Indulgence,  which  granted 
religious  freedom  to  all  his  subjects.  But  Whittier's  main  interest  lay  in 
King  James'  friendship  with  William  Penn.  His  discussion  of  "The 
Supernaturalism  of  New  England"  (1847),  best  read  in  his  excerpt,  "The 
Agency  of  Evil,"  5  is  an  eloquent  analysis  of  the  superstitions  which  sacri- 
ficed the  wretched  victims  of  Cotton  Mather's  theological  tyranny. 
Whittier  reveals  in  the  essay  a  sense  of  humor  quite  delightful  at/  times. 
His  criticism  of  Evangeline  is  not  so  much  an  analysis  of  the  poem  as  an 
attack  upon  the  Puritans  of  Massachusetts  for  their  share  of  the  intolerance 
which  helped  to  bring  about  the  expulsion  of  the  Acadians.  His  introduc- 
tion to  a  re-issue  of  John  Woolman's  Journal  becomes  a  history  of  the 
early  efforts  at  Abolition.  He  was  too  much  of  an  advocate  to  be  a  critic 
of  literature. 

Whittier  holds  his  position  in  American  literature  by  virtue  of  his 
simplicity,  his  sincerity  and  his  devotion  to  a  cause.  He  was  not  a  great 
poet;  his  themes  are  too  often  merely  local  or  personal  or  too  argumenta- 
tive; and  he  was  not  a  metrical  artist  of  distinction.  He  varies  constantly 
from  the  fine  to  the  obvious.  A  reader  wades  through  long  and  tiresome 
descriptions  of  unobtrusive  scenery,  consistent  sentimentality  or  personal 
platitudes  to  be  rewarded  by  "The  Last  Walk  in  Autumn,"  "In  School 
Days"  or  "Ichabod."  Whittier's  metrical  effects  were  the  result  of  un- 
trained talent.  His  rimes  are  often  careless;  his  verses  are  frequently  far 
from  smooth,  but  when  his  emotions  rise  to  the  heights  they  carry  the 

5  Prose  Works,  Vol.  3,  pp.  249-266. 


THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  355 

rhythm  with  them  into  inevitability.  The  crisp  brief  lines  of  "Le  Marais 
du  Cynge,"  "The  Landmarks,"  "St.' John"  or  "The  Farewell  of  a  Virginia 
Slave  Mother"  keep  his  thoughts  within  bounds  and  the  alternating  long 
and  short  lines  of  "The  Last  Walk  in  Autumn"  bring  that  stanzaic  unity 
in  variety  so  often  absent  from  his  verse. 

His  democracy  fitted  well  the  time  and  place  in  which  he  wrote.  The 
note  of  the  "might  have  been"  in  "Maud  Muller"  was  a  popular  one  be- 
cause theoretically  one  may  rise  to  any  height  in  the  United  States,  and 
it  is  a  more  universal  note  than  was  customary  with  Whittier. 

Whittier  was  essentially  sectional;  in  this  lay  his  strength  and  his  weak- 
ness. He  saw  usually  from  only  the  New  England  point  of  view,  which 
gave  his  poetry  an  intensity  which  thrilled  his  own  generation  but  to 
which  we  are  now  at  times  unresponsive.  But  from  those  facets  of  his 
New  England  nature  there  shine  a  vivid  personality  and  better  still,  an 
unshaken  character.  They  will  keep  his  reputation,  limited  as  it  is,  secure. 


In  his  "Last  Walk  in  Autumn,"  Whittier  described  a  young  poet  whom 
he  had  encouraged  in  his  early  efforts,  and  whose  instinct  led  him  to  the 
delineation  of  his  own  home  and  people.  Although  Bayard  Taylor  first 
won  notice  by  his  travel  books,  he  was  as  truly  a  product  of  Chester 
County,  Pennsylvania,  as  Whittier  was  of  Haverhill,  Massachusetts. 
Taylor  was  born  June  n,  1825,  of  mingled  English  Quaker  and  German 
ancestry  and  this  heritage  shows  clearly  in  three  of  his  outstanding 
achievements;  the  Home  Pastorals,  The  Story  of  Kennett,  and  the  trans- 
lation of  Faust.  He  broke  away  from  the  farm  in  1844  and  travelled  on 
foot  through  Europe,  writing  letters  to  the  Saturday  Evening  Post  and 
the  Tribune,  which  were  published  in  Views  Afoot  (1846).  It  was  a 
great  success,  the  twentieth  edition  appearing  in  1855.  The  struggles  of 
Taylor  and  his  companions  to  see  much  with  very  little  money  was 
appealing;  his  description  of  scenery  was  at  times  of  a  high  order,  and, 
even  though  he  saw  only  the  external  phases  of  European  life,  he  had 
established  his  position  as  a  writer,  he  had  learned  German,  and  broadened 
his  education. 

In  1849  Horace  Greeley  sent  him  to  California  to  report  to  the  New 
York  Tribune  the  life  of  the  gold  diggings  and  of  cities  like  San  Francisco 
and  Monterey.  Taylor  went  by  way  of  Panama  and  sent  back  vivid  if 
somewhat  too  detailed  accounts  of  that  California  life.  He  also  described 
the  beauty  of  the  San  Joaquin  Valley  and  even  crossed  into  Mexico.  On 
his  return  in  1850  he  published  El  Dorado  in  which  he  gathered  the  results 
of  his  travels  into  more  permanent  form.  Well  received  at  that  time  it  is 
even  yet  of  value  to  the  historian.  One  of  its  most  interesting  episodes 
is  his  account  of  the  early  Sacramento  theatre. 

Taylor  travelled  widely  in  later  years,  became  a  very  popular  lecturer, 


356  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  published  among  other  volumes  his  Lands  of  the  Saracen  (1854), 
Journey  to  Central  Africa  (1854),  an^  4  Visit  to  India,  China  and  Japan 
(1855).  Eleven  volumes  had  appeared  by  1869.  But  Taylor  in  1874,  ex- 
pressed so  well  his  own  opinion  of  this  phase  of  his  work  that  it  will 
make  unnecessary  any  further  analysis  of  it: 

Ten  years  ago,  I  saw  that  the  work  I  had  done  had  no  permanent  value— my 
books  of  travel  had  a  popularity  that  deceived  many  of  my  friends,  but  I  knew 
that  thev  could  not  hold  an  enduring  position  in  literature.  A  traveller's  ob- 
servations and  descriptions  stand  only  until  some  later  traveller  sees  more,  or 
describes  more  agreeably.6 

What  remain  of  his  foreign  experiences  are  his  Poems  of  the  Orient 
(1854),  in  which  appeared  his  "Bedouin  Love  Song,"  full  of  the  fire  and 
passion  of  the  East,  and  other  lyrics  like  "Hassan  to  his  Mare,"  or  "To 
the  Nile,"  for  Taylor  was  essentially  a  poet. 

In  1 847  Taylor  settled  in  New  York,  being  introduced  by  N.  P.  Willis 
and  gaining  his  living  by  writing  for  the  Literary  World  and  the  Tribune, 
editing  the  Union  Magazine,  working  fifteen  hours  a  day  to  be  able  to 
marry  Mary  Agnew,  who  died,  however,  two  months  after  their 
wedding.  Taylor  became  a  part  of  the  so  called  "Knickerbocker  Group" 
—to  which  Bryant,  Halleck,  Willis,  Hoffman,  R.  H.  Stoddard,  and,  later, 
Boker  belonged— all  of  whom  had,  with  one  exception,  been  born  in  New 
England  or  Pennsylvania. 

He  began  to  be  recognized,  being  asked  to  read  his  Phi  Beta  Kappa 
poem,  "The  American  Legend,"  at  Harvard  in  1850,  and  writing  Cali- 
fornia Ballads,  before,  however,  he  had  gone  to  California.  This  was  a 
celebration  in  rimed  verse  of  the  pioneers  who  made  the  legends  of 
America  without  myths,  with  graceful  tributes  to  Longfellow  and 
Whittier.  Poe  had  come  to  the  defense  of  Taylor's  Rhymes  of  Travel  in 
an  appreciative  "Marginalia"  item  in  the  Southern  Literary  Messenger  in 
June  1 849,  answering  an  unfair  attack,  and  dwelling  upon  the  imaginative 
quality  of  Taylor's  verse. 

By  i860  Taylor  had  married  his  second  wife,  Marie  Hansen,  who 
became  his  biographer.  He  had  built  a  large  house  at  Cedarcroft,  Chester 
County,  Pennsylvania,  where  he  intended  to  devote  himself  to  poetry. 
One  of  the  most  appealing  of  his  poems,  "The  Return  of  the  Goddess," 
is  a  plea  for  pardon  from  the  muse  whom  he  had  worshipped  and 
deserted  for  other  gods: 

Though  dust  is  on  the  leaves,  her  breath  will  bring 
Their  freshness  back:  why  lingers  she  so  long? 

The  pulseless  air  is  waiting  for  her  wing, 
Dumb  with  unuttercd  song. 

6  Marie  H.  Taylor  and  H.  E.  Scudder,  Life  and  Letters  (Boston,  1884),  Vol.  2,  p.  660. 


THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  w 

It  appeared  as  a  preface  to  his  volume,  The  Poet's  Journal  (1862).  The 
title  poem,  whose  theme,  second  love,  with  a  constant  reference  to  the 
first,  is  hardly  fortunate.  The  narrative  is  introductory  and  amplifying, 
however,  to  some  verses  of  distinction  like  "The  Torso"  and  "The 
Fountain  of  Trevi."  Much  more  important,  however,  was  "The  Quaker 
Widow,"  the  first  of  the  ballads  dealing  with  the  rural  life  of  Chester 
County.  Taylor  continued  to  publish  these  at  intervals,  especiallv  in 
Home  Pastorals  of  1875.  The  best  are  "The  Quaker  Widow,"  "John 
Reed,"  "Jane  Reed,"  "The  Old  Pennsylvania  Farmer,"  and  "The  Holly 
Tree."  In  these  Taylor  has  done  the  difficult  thing,  to  take  from  prosaic 
life  poetic  inspiration.  He  reveals  the  hidden  tragedy  which  an  apparently 
unromantic  nature  may  carry  at  heart  for  years,  and,  if  the  man  or 
woman  is  of  the  breed  that  Taylor  knew,  may  not  show  to  a  living  soul. 
He  used  a  six-stress  verse  whose  monosyllabic  structure  fitted  well  the 
inarticulate  nature  of  the  characters.  As  Jane  Reed  speaks  to  the  dumb 
beast,  her  only  confidant: 

The  poor  dumb  beast  she  is,  she  never  can  know  or  tell, 
And  it  seems  to  do  me  good,  the  very  shame  of  the  spell: 
So  old  a  woman  and  hard,  and  Joel  so  old  a  man- 
But  the  thoughts  of  the  old  go  on  as  the  thoughts  of  the  young  began! 

It's  guessing  that  wastes  the  heart,  far  worse  than  the  surest  fate: 
If  I  knew  he  had  thought  of  me,  I  could  quietly  work  and  wait; 
And  then  when  either,  at  last,  on  a  bed  of  death  should  lie, 
Why,  one  might  speak  the  truth,  and  the  other  hear  and  die! 

It  is  not  always  a  frustrated  life.  The  Quaker  widow  in  her  old  age 
reviews  calmly  her  quiet  life,  fragrant  with  the  deep  affection  that 
bridged  the  differences  of  sect  or  creed  in  husband  and  children,  and 
accepted  with  philosophy  the  loss  which  she  was  better  able  to  bear  than 
he. 

Financial  difficulties  and  demands  of  diplomacy  called  Taylor  away 
from  his  favorite  pursuit.  In  May  1862,  he  became  secretary  of  legation 
in  St.  Petersburg,  and  when  he  returned  a  year  later,  he  began  to  write 
novels.  Hannah  Thurston  (1863),  was  a  satire  upon  Temperance  Reform, 
Abolitionists,  Woman's  Rights,  Communities,  and  other  phases  of  the 
reform  movements  of  the  fifties,  which  are  subjected  to  Taylor's  ridicule. 
Obviously  it  was  not  a  great  novel.  John  Godfrey's  Fortunes  (1864),  is 
a  better  story,  for  the  characters  are  more  real.  John  Godfrey  reflects 
Taylor's  own  hard  struggles  in  New  York  City,  and  the  absence  of  the 
"real  people"  at  the  literary  soirees,  and  the  vanity  of  the  poetasters  are 
depicted  with  skill. 

It  was  in  The  Story  of  Kennett  (1866),  however,  that  Taylor  created 
a  masterpiece.  Here  he  wrote,  not  with  satiric  intent,  but  out  of  his 


358  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

love  for  his  own  people,  as  he  did  in  Home  Pastorals.  The  novel  is  laid 
in  1 796  in  Chester  County.  Mary  Potter,  once  a  bound  girl,  now  a  strong 
inarticulate  woman  who  keeps  her  promise  to  her  weak  husband,  Alfred 
Barton,  not  to  reveal  their  marriage  until  his  father's  death,  is  an  unfor- 
gettable character.  Even  though  her  son,  Gilbert,  has  to  grow  up  under 
a  shadow,  and  the  Squire  lives  for  twenty-five  years,  she  waits  for  her 
hour  of  triumph  until  the  old  man's  funeral.  Then,  shrouded  in  a  black 
veil,  she  moves  up  and  takes  her  husband's  arm  and  her  rightful  place, 
still  inarticulate.  There  are  other  characters  almost  equally  well  done, 
and  all  based  on  real  people,  although  only  one,  Sandy  Flash,  the  high- 
wayman, is  given  his  right  name.  It  rarely  falls  to  the  lot  of  a  novel  to 
become  an  institution,  but  The  Story  of  Kemiett  is  an  integral  part  of 
the  local  life.  In  1933  it  was  made  into  a  pageant,  and  produced  at  the 
beautiful  Longwood  Open  Air  Theatre.  So  great  was  the  interest  that  it 
had  to  be  repeated  several  times,  and  the  farmers'  families  in  the  audience 
audibly  identified  the  characters  after  seventy  years.  The  novel  has  be- 
come part  of  the  history  of  Pennsylvania.  Joseph  and  his  Friend  (1870), 
another  story  of  rural  Pennsylvania  and  Philadelphia,  does  not  rise  to  the 
height  of  The  Story  of  Kemiett.  Taylor's  short  stories,  such  as  "Friend 
Eli's  Daughter,"  which  deal  with  the  quiet  spiritual  lives  of  the  Quakers, 
are  among  his  contributions  to  the  growth  of  realism. 

Taylor's  translation  of  Faust  he  made  the  crowning  work  of  his  life  in 
poetry.  His  knowledge  of  the  language  was  profound  and  the  process  of 
translation  became  a  creative  act.  Taylor's  verbal  memory  was  remark- 
able; it  is  said  by  competent  testimony  that  he  knew  the  First  Part  by 
heart.  His  translation  still  holds  its  place  as  the  best  in  English,  as  secure 
as  Longfellow's  version  of  the  Divine  Comedy  and  even  more  unques- 
tionably than  Bryant's  Homer.  Except  to  the  reader  whose  knowledge 
of  German  is  that  of  a  specialist,  Taylor's  translation  gives  a  more  ac- 
curate impression  of  the  original  than  Goethe's  poem  itself.  One  of  the 
foremost  German  authorities  has  acknowledged  to  the  present  writer 
that  there  are  portions  of  the  Second  Part  in  which  Taylor  has  given  the 
best  and  most  poetic  interpretation  in  any  language. 

In  1 876  he  recited  his  National  Ode  in  Independence  Square,  Phila- 
delphia, with  stirring  effect.  Taylor  had  been  invited  to  write  the  Centen- 
nial hymn  and  had  completed  it  when  the  Commission,  having  asked 
Longfellow,  Holmes,  Lowell,  and  Whittier  in  vain  to  write  the  Ode, 
came  in  embarrassment  to  Taylor  and  asked  him  to  undertake  it.  There 
was  a  largeness  about  Bayard  Taylor  which  made  him  accept,  and  he 
repaid  Whittier  for  his  early  encouragement  by  presenting  him  at  the 
latter's  request  with  the  hymn,  a  portion  of  which  Whittier  used!  Read 
in  cold  blood,  the  National  Ode  is  competent,  but  somewhat  conven- 
tional, and  the  effect  was  undoubtedly  due  to  Taylor's  personal  quality 
as  an  orator. 


THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  359 

Of  his  longer  narrative  poems  The  Picture  of  St.  John  is  the  best. 
Taylor  began  it  in  1850  but  laid  it  aside  and  it  was  published  in  1866. 
It  is  the  study  of  a  painter's  growth  in  love  and  art,  interrupted  by  the 
death  of  the  woman  he  loves,  and  by  the  loss  of  his  boy  whom  he  had 
painted  as  St.  John.  It  proceeds  through  his  decline  into  the  depiction  of 
evil  and  his  final  spiritual  rescue  by  the  vision  of  his  son.  The  poem 
contains  as  magnificent  phrasing  as  anything  he  wrote.  The  descriptions 
of  masterpieces  of  Italian  painting  show  how  far  Taylor  had  progressed 
since  Views  Afoot.  Taylor's  mastery  of  the  ottava  rim  a,  and  his  recogni- 
tion that  a  freedom  in  the  rime  scheme  would  permit  him  to  express 
more  fully  his  central  conception  than  a  more  rigid  adherence  to  it,  shows 
how  he  knew  the  difference  between  a  law  and  a  rule. 

During  his  last  years  he  turned  to  dramatic  poetry,  with  a  climax  in 
Prince  Deukalion  (1878),  in  which  he  mingled  epic  and  lyric  verse  in 
the  celebration  of  man's  progress  toward  liberty.  Prince  Deukalion,  the 
son  of  Prometheus  and  Pyrrha,  his  mate,  are  symbolic  of  ideals  of  pos- 
sible manhood  and  womanhood,  who  will  not  celebrate  their  nuptials 
until  both  shall  be  fulfilled  in  human  life.  Even  a  brief  abstract  is  im- 
possible here,  for  the  conception  of  medieval  life  seems  conventional  and 
a  reader  turns  from  the  narrative  to  the  lyrics  with  relief.  Yet  Longfel- 
low thought  he  recognized  Taylor's  own  lofty  strivings  in  Prince  Deukal- 
ion, and  lines  from  the  poem  were  wrought  into  his  tombstone. 

Taylor's  labors  to  keep  Cedarcroft,  even  though  it  was  a  white  ele- 
phant, gradually  wore  him  out.  He  became  nonresident  lecturer  on 
German  literature  at  Cornell  University  in  1869  and  other  honors  and 
opportunities  presented  themselves,  apparently  to  the  injury  of  his  health. 
The  appointment  he  had  long  desired,  that  of  Minister  to  Germany, 
came  in  1877,  but  too  late.  He  died  on  December  19,  1878. 


It  is  at  first  glance  curious  that  the  South,  so  conscious  of  its  separate 
institutions,  should  have  developed  no  provincial  poetry  that  reflected 
them  which  may  be  compared  to  that  of  Whittier  or  Taylor.  But  Poe 
was  concerned  with  universal  themes,  and  while  Simms  wrote  verse  con- 
stantly, it  was,  like  his  novels,  romantic  in  its  choice  of  material,  and 
idealistic  in  treatment.  Atlantis  (1832),  is  a  story  of  sea  fairies.  The  Cas- 
sique  of  Accabee  and  Other  Pieces  (1849),  contains  an  Indian  verse  tale, 
some  nature  poems,  and  a  mingling  of  the  notes  of  Bryant  and  Byron. 
The  City  of  the  Silent  (1880),  is  a  long-drawn-out  celebration  of  the 
custom  of  paying  respect  to  the  dead,  but  it  goes  back  to  past  civiliza- 
tions and  reaches  Charleston  only  in  the  last  few  pages.  Simms'  cele- 
bration of  the  South  was  based  on  his  revivification  of  the  past  because 
Simms  had  a  real  historic  sense,  rather  than  an  appreciation  of  the  homely 
values  of  provincial  life.  There  was  plenty  of  such  life  in  the  South  but 


36o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

a  celebration  of  it  in  literature  was  not  the  way  to  recognition,  especially 
in  Charleston,  from  the  group  whose  approval  Simms  desired.  He  came 
from  an  economic  level  similar  to  that  of  Whittier  and  Taylor,  but  while 
thev  looked  back  with  a  nostalgic  feeling  to  the  scenes  of  their  boy- 
hood, and  won  success  by  their  depiction,  Simms  apparently  had  no  reason 
for  such  a  return.  Generalizations  are  of  course  dangerous  here  owing 
to  differences  in  the  social  stratification  of  the  North  and  South.  Inde- 
pendence and  devotion  to  the  soil,  which  make  up  the  charm  of  Snow- 
bound and  the  Home  Pastorals,  were  just  as  strong  in  the  South,  but  thev 
channelled  a  path  to  political  activity  rather  than  to  literary  achievement. 


Chapter  22 


THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE 


Although  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  is  best  known  for  the  series  of 
familiar  essays,  which  began  with  the  Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table  in 
1857,  it  is  not  the  literary  form  in  which  his  ideas  were  presented  that 
is  most  significant.  Whether  it  is  in  essay,  poetry,  or  novel,  the  personality 
of  Holmes  dominates  the  written  word.  He  might  be  classified,  in  con- 
trast with  Whittier,  as  an  urban  provincial,  but  while  Holmes  is  com- 
pletely of  New  England,  there  is  a  breadth  in  his  outlook  that  makes  this 
characterization  only  partially  correct.  He  thought  of  himself  primarilv 
as  a  poet,  but  he  first  published  some  of  his  best  verses  as  illustrations  of 
ideas  set  forth  in  the  essays,  and  any  classification  that  would  rigidly 
separate  them  would  lead  to  repetition.  He  was  the  first  of  our  great 
writers  in  the  nineteenth  century  to  discuss  science  with  the  authority 
of  experience,  but  he  disliked  its  "bullying"  and  his  objection  to  the 
dogmatism  of  theology  became  almost  an  obsession.  He  scrutinized  every- 
thing he  touched  with  the  rationalistic,  searching  gaze  of  the  man  who 
has  no  respect  for  authority  simply  as  authority,  but  tests  everything  by 
the  standpoint  of  his  reason.  It  is,  therefore,  as  a  rationalist  in  literature 
that  he  best  repays  study. 

Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  was  born  August  29,  1809,  a  year  which  also 
saw  the  birth  of  Poe,  Lincoln,  Tennyson,  Gladstone,  Darwin  and  Chopin, 
a  fact  which  he  referred  to  often,  although  he  did  not  mention  Poe.  His 
father,  Abiel,  who  graduated  from  Yale  College  and  became  the  pastor 
of  the  First  Congregational  Church  of  Cambridge,  descended  from  John 
Holmes,  who  had  settled  in  Connecticut  in  1686.  On  his  mother's  side, 
he  came  from  Dutch  stock,  and  through  intermarriage,  he  could  count 
Anne  Bradstreet  among  his  ancestors.  After  school  at  Cambridge  and  a 
year  at  Andover,  he  graduated  from  Harvard  College  in  the  class  of  1829, 
which  he  celebrated  so  often  in  his  verse. 

His  first  literary  favorites  were  Pope,  Campbell,  Bryant,  Drake  and 
Halleck,  and  in  the  clarity  of  his  poetry  their  influence  is  apparent.  He 

361 


36i  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

wrote  a  brief  translation  from  the  Aeneid  before  he  was  sixteen,  and  his 
early  verses  appeared  in  the  Collegian,  a  Harvard  publication,  from  which 
he  progressed  to  the  Nezv  England  Magazine  in  183 1.  Some  of  these  early 
verses  have  been  included  in  his  Collected  Works,1  but  the  best  had 
appeared  in  his  Poems  of  1836.2  In  the  New  England  Magazine  he  also 
published  two  prose  essays,  "The  Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table,"  3 
which  he  resumed  twenty-six  years  later.  There  is  little  of  the  charm  of 
the  later  Autocrat  in  these  installments,  which  he  never  reprinted. 

It  was  as  a  poet  that  he  first  attracted  attention.  He  read  in  a  news- 
paper of  the  pending  destruction  of  the  frigate,  Constitution,  and  wrote 
his  indignant  protest,  "Old  Ironsides,"  4  which  was  widely  copied,  and 
was  responsible  for  the  preservation  of  the  historic  ship.  In  this  poem  he 
showed  three  of  his  marked  traits:  his  ability  at  occasional  verse,  his 
love  for  an  historic  illustration  of  his  country's  greatness,  and  his  mastery 
over  the  rhetorical  antithesis  in  such  lines  as: 

The  harpies  of  the  shore  shall  pluck 
The  eagle  of  the  sea. 

Holmes  was  studying  law  at  Harvard  College  when  the  poem  was 
written,  but  after  one  year  his  interest  changed  to  medicine,  and  he  soon 
went  to  Paris  to  complete  his  education.  Having  also  visited  England, 
Holland,  Germany,  Italy,  and  Switzerland,  he  returned  in  December, 
1835,  and  began  the  practice  of  medicine  in  Boston.  With  that  phase  of 
his  work  we  are  concerned  here  mainly  as  it  revealed  his  willingness  to 
differ  from  the  conservatism  of  his  profession.  In  1843  ^e  published  his 
essay  on  "The  Contagiousness  of  Puerperal  Fever."  5  Long  before  anti- 
septics were  discovered,  Holmes  revealed  the  carelessness  of  midwives 
and  even  of  physicians  in  passing  from  one  maternity  case  to  another. 
Notwithstanding  attacks  from  some  of  the  leading  physicians,  Dr.  Holmes 
stood  his  ground,  and  the  essay  still  remains  a  landmark  in  the  history  of 
medicine.  In  his  later  medical  essays,  such  as  "Homoeopathy  and  its 
Kindred  Delusions,"  "Currents  and  Countercurrents  in  iMedical  Science," 
his  method  is  somewhat  the  same  as  in  his  familiar  essays— a  direct  attack 
on  prejudice  and  tradition,  based  on  actual  observation. 

In  1836  he  had  read  as  the  Phi  Beta  Kappa  poem  at  Harvard  his  long 
"Poetry:  A  Metrical  Essay,"  which  together  with  such  characteristic 
verse  as  "The  Last  Leaf,"  was  included  in  his  first  volume  of  Poems  of 

1  "Verses  from  the  Oldest  Portfolio."  Vol.  3,  Riverside  Edition  (1891).  All  refer- 
ences are  to  this  edition.  There  arc  still  others  published  in  the  Bibliography  (1907), 
by  George  B.  Ives. 

2  Vol.  1,  Collected  Works. 

3  Vol.  1  (Nov.  1831),  pp.  428-431.  Vol.  2  (Feb.  1832),  pp.  134-138. 
1  Boston  Daily  Advertiser,  Sept.  16,  1830. 

5  See  Medical  Essays  (Boston,  1883),  pp.  103-172.  Reprinted  as  Vol.  9  of  Collected 
Works. 


THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE  363 

1836.  "The  Last  Leaf"  remains  one  of  the  most  representative  of  his 
poems.  Animated  by  just  the  right  tone  of  sentiment,  which  is  precipi- 
tated, but  not  destroyed  by  the  stanza 

I    know    it    is   a    sin 
For  me  to  sit  and  grin 
At  him  here; 

the  clear  light  of  reason  avoids  the  Byronic  self-pity  of  the  period,  and 
the  poet  recognizes  the  inevitable  with  a  smile.  These  early  poems,  whose 
very  artful  bathos  prevents  them  from  being  great,  are  nevertheless  de- 
lightful. "On  Lending  a  Punchbowl"  or  "The  Music  Grinders"  are  per- 
fect of  their  kind.  Holmes  continued  to  publish  volumes  of  verse,  the 
Foems  of  1849  and  Songs  in  Many  Keys  (1862)  6  and  in  1846  the  first  of 
his  volumes  appeared  in  England. 

In  1838  he  was  appointed  professor  of  anatomy  at  Dartmouth  College 
and  in  1847  he  became  Parkman  Professor  of  Anatomy  and  Physiology 
at  Harvard  University.  He  carried  into  this  profession  his  wit  and  dramatic 
sense  and  remained  a  teacher  for  thirty-five  years.  His  practice  was  never 
a  large  one  and  finally  he  gave  up  active  work.  He  told  Dr.  Weir  Mitchell 
that  his  reputation  as  a  poet  had  hurt  his  chances  of  success  as  an  active 
practitioner  and  advised  him  not  to  publish  a  volume  of  poems  until  he 
was  forty  years  of  a^e. 

In  1840  Holmes  married  Amelia  Lee  Jackson,  daughter  of  Associate 
Justice  Jackson  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Massachusetts.  Their  eldest  son, 
Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Jr.,  carried  to  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United 
States  the  power  of  reasoning  and  the  liberal  attitude  of  his  father.  Dr. 
Holmes'  entertaining  narrative,  "My  Hunt  after  the  Captain,"  tells  of  his 
efforts  to  find  his  son,  who  was  wounded  in  the  Civil  War. 

Through  his  constant  appearances  as  a  reader  of  his  poetry  and  as  a 
lecturer  on  literature,  he  became  known  primarily  as  a  poet.  Then  in 
1857,  when  Lowell  became  the  first  editor  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  he 
made  a  condition  of  his  acceptance  the  securing  of  Holmes  as  a  con- 
tributor. In  consequence  the  first  installment  of  The  Autocrat  of  the 
Breakfast  Table  appeared  in  the  opening  number,  for  November,  1857. 
It  began  with  a  characteristic  Holmes'  touch,  "I  was  just  going  to  say, 
when  I  was  interrupted,"  but  it  had  a  vastly  different  quality  from  the 
fragment  in  the  New  England  Magazine.  It  was  truly,  as  Dr.  Holmes  said, 
"dipped  from  the  running  stream  of  my  thoughts."  The  success  of  the 
Autocrat  was  immediate,  and  led  to  The  Professor  at  the  Breakfast  Table 
(1859),  The  Poet  at  the  Breakfast  Table  (1872)  and  Over  the  Teacups 
(1890).  Outside  of  his  few  political  addresses,  to  be  discussed  later,7 
Holmes'  life  remained  a  distinctly  personal  one.  If  he  took  no  active  share 

6  For  dates  of  printing  of  individual  poems  in  book  form  see  Ives'  Bibliography. 

7  See  Chapter  25. 


364  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  reformatory  movements,  he  was  constantly  writing  upon  controversial 
subjects,  and  his  letters  to  Motley  and  others  are  remarkable  pictures  of 
what  went  on  in  Boston  in  the  sixties  and  seventies.  Yet  outside  of  his 
addresses  at  medical  meetings  and  the  reading  of  occasional  poems,  the 
publication  of  his  books  constituted  the  chief  events  of  his  later  life.  In 
1 86 1  his  first  novel,  Elsie  Vernier,  appeared,  to  be  followed  by  The  Guard- 
ian Angel  (1867)  and  A  Mortal  Antipathy  (1885).  Two  biographies,  of 
Motley  (1879)  and  of  Emerson  (1884),  two  collections  of  essays,  Pages 
from  an  Old  Volume  of  Life  (1883)  and  Medical  Essays  (1883),  varied 
the  production  of  volumes  of  verse:  Poetry  of  the  War  (1865),  Songs  of 
Many  Seasons  (1875),  The  Iron  Gate  (1880)  and  Before  the  Curfew 
(1887).  In  1886  he  went  abroad  for  the  first  time  since  his  young  man- 
hood, was  given  honorary  degrees  by  Oxford,  Cambridge  and  Edinburgh, 
and  in  consequence  wrote  his  sprightly  Our  Hundred  Days  in  Europe 
(1887).  This  is  a  chatty  account  of  his  many  social  experiences  in  England 
and  his  visit  to  Paris  to  revive  his  memories  of  earlier  days.  There  is  some 
shrewd  comment  on  British  men  of  letters  but  no  keen  analysis  of  Eng- 
lish character,  such  as  may  be  found  in  Emerson's  English  Traits  or  Haw- 
thorne's Our  Old  Home. 

Holmes  outlived  his  friends  of  the  New  England  group,  to  all  of  whom 
he  paid  notable  tributes,  especially  his  prose  picture  of  Hawthorne's 
burial 8;  his  memorable  verses  to  Longfellow, 

His  lips  are  hushed;  his  song  shall  never  die, 

and  his  noble  elegy  of  Lowell,  beginning: 

Thou  should'st  have  sung  the  swan-song  for  the  choir. 

He  died  painlessly  in  his  chair,  October  7,  1894. 

Successful  as  his  early  poems  were,  it  became  time  for  Holmes  to  strike 
a  loftier  note,  and  out  of  one  of  his  monologues  in  the  Autocrat  there 
came  his  greatest  poem,  "The  Chambered  Nautilus."  Holmes  tells  us  it 
was  suggested  by  Roget's  Bridgeivater  Treatise.  It  is  the  finest  example  in 
our  literature  in  which  a  natural  historical  fact  is  lifted  by  a  poet's  imagina- 
tion into  a  lofty  truth,  which,  like  the  Nautilus  itself,  leaves  its  outgrown 
shell  of  science  to  teach  without  didacticism  the  eternal  lesson  of  spiritual 
progress.  On  the  next  page  of  the  Autocrat  Holmes  revealed  his  under- 
standing of  the  poet's  function: 

Every  such  poem  has  a  copy,  that  men  read  and  publishers  pay  for.  The  soul 
of  it  is  born  in  an  instant  in  the  poet's  soul.  It  comes  to  him  a  thought,  tangled 
in  the  meshes  of  a  few  sweet  words,— words  that  have  loved  each  other  from 
the  cradle  of  the  language,  but  have  never  been  wedded  until  now.  Whether 
it  will  ever  fully  embody  itself  in  a  bridal  train  of  a  dozen  stanzas  or  not  is 

8  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  14  (July,  1864),  pp.  98-101. 


THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE  365 

uncertain;  but  it  exists  potentially  from  the  instant  that  the  poet  turns  pale 
with  it. 

The  unusual  stanzaic  structure  of  "The  Chambered  Nautilus,"  a^a^ 
b3b5b5  C3C6,  with  its  variety  of  stresses  and  rimes  and  its  sweeping  cli- 
maxes, is  definitely  organic,  and  enhances  the  beauty  of  the  poem.  Holmes 
used  it  effectively  once  more  in  "Musa,"  his  appeal  to  the  muse  to  re- 
turn to  him.  From  the  Autocrat  came  also  the  witty  "Contentment"  and 
"The  Deacon's  Masterpiece:  or,  The  Wonderful  'One  Hoss  Shay.' " 
Here  the  rational  note  is  emphatic.  The  fall  of  the  deacon's  chaise  is 
symbolic  of  the  sudden  collapse  of  what  Holmes  believed  to  be  the  out- 
worn theological  doctrines  in  whiclTTie*TiaH"  been  brought  up.  One  of  his 
most  effectiveTpleas  for  humanity,  "Avis,"  was  incorporated  in  a  fore- 
word to  the  Professor.9 

The  episodic  nature  of  the  Essays  lends  itself  easily  to  the  variation  be- 
tween prose  and  verse,  between  delightful  satire  and  a  more  serious  dis- 
cussion of  anything  that  comes  into  Dr.  Holmes'  mind.  A  typical  passage 
in  the  Autocrat  begins  by  a  reference  to  a  mathematical  measure,  proceeds 
to  a  profound  universal  truth,  whose  fine  phrasing  lifts  it  into  the  do- 
main of  poetry,  then  applies  it  to  illuminate  the  character  of  "the  school- 
mistress" and  concludes  by  rationalizing  the  episode  into  humor: 

The  rapidity  with  which  ideas  grow  old  in  our  memories  is  in  a  direct  ratio 
to  the  squares  of  their  importance.  Their  apparent  age  runs  up  miraculously, 
like  the  value  of  diamonds,  as  they  increase  in  magnitude.  A  great  calamity 
for  instance,  is  as  old  as  the  trilobites  an  hour  after  it  has  happened.  It  stains 
backward  through  all  the  leaves  we  have  turned  over  in  the  book  of  life, 
before  its  clot  of  tears  or  of  blood  is  dry  on  the  page  we  are  turning.  For 
this  we  seem  to  have  lived;  it  was  foreshadowed  in  dreams  that  we  leaped 
out  of  in  the  cold  sweat  of  terror;  in  the  ''dissolving  views"  of  dark  day- 
visions;  all  omens  pointed  to  it;  all  paths  lead  to  it.  After  the  tossing  half- 
forgetfulness  of  the  first  sleep  that  follows  such  an  event,  it  comes  upon  us 
afresh,  as  a  surprise,  at  waking;  in  a  few  moments  it  is  old  again,— old  as 
eternity. 

(I  wish  I  had  not  said  all  this  then  and  there.  I  might  have  known  better. 
The  pale  schoolmistress,  in  her  mourning  dress,  was  looking  at  me,  as  I  noticed, 
with  a  wild  sort  of  expression.  All  at  once  the  blood  dropped  out  of  her  cheeks 
as  the  mercury  drops  from  a  broken  barometer-tube,  and  she  melted  away 
from  her  seat  like  an  image  of  snow;  a  slung-shot  could  not  have  brought  her 
down  better.  God  forgive  me! 

After  this  little  episode,  I  continued,  to  some  few  that  remained  balancing 
teaspoons  on  the  edges  of  cups,  twirling  knives,  or  tilting  upon  the  hind  legs 
of  their  chairs  until  their  heads  reached  the  wall,  where  they  left  gratuitous 
advertisements  of  various  popular  cosmetics.)  10 

9  "The  Autocrat  Gives  a  Breakfast  to  the  Public,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  2  (Dec. 
1858),  pp.  889-894. 

10  Autocrat,  pp.  31-32. 


$66  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  three  elements,  scientific  knowledge,  imaginative  expression,  and 
humor  are  not  always  so  closely  related,  but  they  constitute  the  lasting 
appeal  of  the  essays.  Apropos  of  controversy,  he  remarks: 

Don't  know  what  that  means?— Well,  I  will  tell  you.  You  know,  that,  if  you 
had  a  bent  tube,  one  arm  of  which  was  of  the  size  of  a  pipe-stem,  and  the 
other  big  enough  to  hold  the  ocean,  water  would  stand  at  the  same  height  in 
one  as  in  the  other.  Controversy  equalizes  fools  and  wise  men  in  the  same 
way,— and  the  fools  know  it. 

Like  most  artists  in  words  he  could  look  the  assumptions  of  science  in 
the  face  and  turn  its  best  weapon,  that  of  the  reason,  upon  it: 

Scientific  knowledge,  even  in  the  most  modest  persons,  has  mingled  with  it  a 
something  which  partakes  of  insolence.  Absolute,  peremptory  facts  are  bullies, 
and  those  who  keep  company  with  them  are  apt  to  get  a  bullying  habit  of 
mind;— not  of  manners,  perhaps;  they  may  be  soft  and  smooth,  but  the  smile 
thev  carry  has  a  quiet  assertion  in  it,  such  as  the  Champion  of  the  Heavy 
Weights,  commonly  the  best-natured,  but  not  the  most  diffident  of  men,  wears 
upon  what  he  very  inelegantly  calls  his  "mug."  Take  the  man,  for  instance, 
who  deals  in  the  mathematical  sciences.  There  is  no  elasticity  in  a  mathematical 
fact;  if  you  bring  up  against  it,  it  never  yields  a  hair's  breadth;  everything 
must  go  to  pieces  that  comes  in  collision  with  it.  What  the  mathematician 
knows  being  absolute,  unconditional,  incapable  of  suffering  question,  it  should 
tend,  in  the  nature  of  things,  to  breed  a  despotic  way  of  thinking.  So  of  those 
who  deal  with  the  palpable  and  often  unmistakable  facts  of  external  nature; 
only  in  a  less  degree.  Every  probability— and  most  of  our  common,  working 
beliefs  are  probabilities— is  provided  with  buffers  at  both  ends,  which  break 
the  force  of  opposite  opinions  clashing  against  it;  but  scientific  certainty  has 
no  spring  in  it,  no  courtesy,  no  possibility  of  yielding.  All  this  must  react  on 
the  minds  which  handle  these  forms  of  truth.11 

There  are  also  constant  imaginative  touches,  such  as  the  conviction  that 
we  have  lived  through  the  same  scene  before,  and  his  discussion  of  the 
associations  that  are  secured  through  the  recurrence  of  odors,  such  as  the 
marigold  or  immortelle.  The  appeal  of  his  humor  is  strengthened  by  his 
economy  of  it.  He  advised  all  writers  to  keep  their  wit  in  the  back- 
ground until  they  had  made  a  reputation  by  their  more  solid  qualities. 
He  recognized  the  danger  of  being  constantly  "funny,"  and  consequently 
he  has  lived  as  a  humorist  in  verse  and  prose  and  the  professional  humorists 
of  the  fifties  are  forgotten.  His  epigrams  are  just  as  true  as  the  day  they 
were  published:  "The  great  thing  in  this  world  is  not  so  much  where  we 
stand,  as  in  what  direction  we  are  moving,"  and  "Sin  has  many  tools,  but 
a  lie  is  a  handle  that  fits  them  all." 

Holmes  was  not  a  democrat  in  any  of  the  different  senses  in  which 
Whittier,    Longfellow    and   Lowell    were   democrats.    He    believed    that 

1 1  Autocrat,  pp.  55-56. 


THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE  367 

money  was  the  cornerstone  of  an  aristocracy  which  was  growing  up  in 
America,  because  it  could  buy  air  and  sunshine  and  good  food.12  In  an- 
other place  he  explains  why  he  prefers  "a  man  of  good  family"  to  "a  self- 
made  man."  13  To  him  the  patrician  implied  several  generations  of  educa- 
tion, good  breeding,  official  position  and  family  portraits,  resulting  in 
good  manners,  his  principal  touchstone.  His  reasoning  differentiated  po- 
litical and  economic  rights  to  equality  with  the  right  of  "strict  social 
discrimination  of  all  things  and  persons,  according  to  their  merits."  It 
was,  in  a  way,  the  application  of  his  general  method  of  rationalizing  theory 
to  meet  "things  as  they  are."  But  of  any  broad  conception  of  democracy 
as  it  was  developing  in  the  United  States,  he  seemed  unaware.  Even 
though  his  poems  celebrating  festivals  in  the  Berkshires  speak  of  the 
ploughman's  dignity  and  there  is  a  road  from  Pittsfield  still  known  as 
Holmes'  Road,  his  praise  of  rural  life  was  conventional.  Dr.  Holmes  was 
indeed  a  bit  of  a  snob,  and  he  talked  too  much  about  society  in  its  limited 
forms,  but  it  was  this  keen  sense  of  social  values  that  made  him  the  writer 
of  the  best  vers  de  societe  in  his  time.  Social  verse  is  hard  to  write  well, 
for  there  must  be  no  sentimentality  in  it;  it  should  be  witty,  clever,  and 
yet  not  frivolous,  and  there  should  if  possible  be  subtle  suggestions  of 
those  laws  of  human  conduct  which  underlie  the  superficial  rules  of  good 
manners.  His  poem,  "Dorothy  Q,"  is  a  celebration  of  the  family,  with 
fine  traditions,  for  which  the  portrait  of  the  little  girl,  his  great  grand- 
mother, was  the  inspiration.  Holmes  showed  here  his  understanding  of 
the  contribution  of  the  Norman  element  to  the  English  nature.  "The 
Parting  Word"  rivals  Wither  in  its  sincere  infidelity. 

Eve    was    duped,    and    Helen    kissed— 
How,  oh  how  can  you  resist? 

It  is  probably  his  mastery  of  this  verse  form  which  keeps  his  love  story 
between  the  Autocrat  and  the  schoolmistress  from  having  any  real  pas- 
sion, even  if  it  is  charming  in  its  restraint. 

The  Professor  at  the  Breakfast  Table  is  hardly  as  successful  as  The 
Autocrat.  There  is  too  much  discussion  of  theology,  and  Holmes  repeats 
himself  in  his  analysis  of  the  standards  of  society.  He  submits  Phrenology 
and  Spiritualism  to  his  rational  tests  and  finds  them  both  wanting.  Yet  the 
book  achieves  more  unity  because  of  the  way  in  which  Iris,  the  girl  whose 
life  has  been  hurt,  becomes  the  thread  of  the  prose  discourse  and  the  sub- 
ject of  one  of  his  finest  poems,  "Iris,  Her  Book."  From  this  book  to  which 
she  pours  out  her  heart,  come  "Under  the  Violets"  and  "A  Hymn  of 
Trust,"  revealing  Holmes'  ability  to  deal  with  sentiment  without  be- 
coming sentimental  and  also  disclosing  his  own  religious  faith.  In  the 
Preface  to  the  new  edition  of  1891,  Holmes  said  "  Taith'  is  the  most  pre- 

12  Autocrat,  p.  260. 

13  Autocrat,  p.  20. 


368  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

cious  of  possessions,  and  it  dislikes  being  meddled  with."  He  was  not  a 
sceptic  and  it  is  difficult  to  see  now  why  some  of  his  books  caused  so 
much  adverse  criticism,  except  that  the  wave  of  intolerance  that  swept 
the  United  States  in  the  fifties  was  still  strong.  It  was  in  The  Professor 
that  Holmes  revealed  the  things  that  interested  him.  "I  love  Nature,  and 
human  nature,  its  thoughts,  affections,  dreams,  aspirations,  delusions,— 
Art  in  all  its  forms— Old  stories  from  black  letter  volumes— and  new 
projects  out  of  hot  brains."  14  He  believed,  like  Longfellow,  that  "a  person 
with  the  poetical  faculty  finds  material  everywhere.  The  grandest  ob- 
jects of  sense  and  thought  are  common  to  all  climates  and  civilizations."  15 

There  is  quite  a  fine  bit  of  drama  in  the  death  scene  of  the  "Little  Gentle- 
man," and  there  are  many  quotable  passages  in  the  Professor,  such  as  the 
comparison  of  a  genius  to  a  ship,  propelled  by  the  hidden  tugboat,  in  the 
person  of  the  wife  who  is  the  real  force.  Holmes  was  ahead  of  his  time 
in  his  attitude  toward  the  position  of  woman  in  American  life. 

The  Poet  at  the  Breakfast  Table  is  even  more  definitely  woven  around 
the  poem,  "Wind  Clouds  and  Star  Drifts,"  written  by  the  "Young  As- 
tronomer," one  of  the  characters.  The  Poet  reads  it  to  his  audience  in 
installments  and  while  the  comments  are  not  always  immediate,  the  young 
astronomer  represents  "modern  ideas"  of  1872,  which  are,  of  course, 
those  of  Holmes  himself.  Through  this  lengthy  poem,  Holmes  expresses 
his  ideas  once  more  upon  theology,  science,  the  individual's  right  to  his 
own  free  will,  the  nature  of  truth,  and  the  idols  of  humanity.  His  Puritan 
ancestry  shines  through  more  clearly  than  he  realized  in  his  treatment  of 
the  symbol,  both  in  this  essay  and  in  the  Professor.  The  dislike  of  the 
symbol  is  modified,  but  it  is  there.  Ultimately,  the  Astronomer,  or  the 
Master,  who  is  supposed  to  be  talking,  arrives  at  a  Gospel  of  Love  as  the 
only  solution,  which  is  hardly  a  new  one. 

One  of  his  most  interesting  poems,  "Homesick  in  Heaven,"  is  found  in 
the  Poet.  Three  women  spirits  fail  to  find  happiness  in  the  next  world  be- 
cause they  cannot  recognize  the  man  whom  they  love.  When  questioned 
by  the  "Angel,"  the  mother  cannot  find  the  little  child  whom  she  had  to 
leave,  the  young  bride  cannot  recognize  her  husband,  nor  the  daughter 
her  father.  The  Angel  tells  them  that  he  is  the  child,  husband  and  sire,  and 
that  he  cannot  be  all  three  at  the  same  time.  It  is  the  application  of  the 
rationalistic  approach  to  the  supernatural.  It  may  of  course  be  looked 
upon  either  as  an  argument  against  the  preservation  of  the  individual  soul, 
or  it  may  point  to  the  limitations  of  a  rationalistic  treatment,  when  car- 
ried into  regions  where  it  has  no  validity. 

Darwin's  Origin  of  Species  had  appeared  in  1859  when  the  Autocrat 
had  just  been  published  and  the  Professor  was  running  through  the  At- 
lantic. Holmes  hails  it  in  the  Poet  as  a  long  step  in  the  direction  of 


11  Professor,  p.  103. 
1 5  Professor,  p.  244. 


THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE  369 

progress,  but  does  not  analyze  it  there.  He  is  most  concerned  with  the 
possibility  of  discussing  the  Darwinian  theory  in  society  without  offence! 
But  the  Poet  is  not  entirely  devoted  to  argument  and  scientific  discus- 
sion. Most  of  his  readers  will  like  him  best  in  his  account  of  the  Gambrel- 
roofe.d  house  in  which  he  was  born,  and  the  recollections  which  have 
made  it  fragrant  to  him. 

Over  the  Teacups  has  less  unity  than  the  other  volumes  of  essays  of 
which  it  is  the  final  number.  The  scene  is  more  probable,  for  there  is 
more  time  at  an  afternoon  tea  for  the  kind  of  conversation  Holmes 
imagines.  The  characters  are  types  as  usual,  being  called  numbers  in- 
stead of  names,  but  in  "Number  Five,"  a  reader  feels  convinced  that 
Holmes  is  depicting  a  real  woman  of  an  unusual  nature  whom  it  was  his 
good  fortune  to  know.  The  characters  belong  to  a  circle  more  uniformly 
like  that  to  which  Holmes  belonged,  so  that  the  contrasts  are  not  as  de- 
cided  as  in  the  other  volumes.  There  is  too  much  apology  for  re-entering 
the  field  of  thirty  years  before  and  indeed  there  are  repetitions  which  are 
quite  forgivable.  But  often  we  are  startled  by  his  appreciation  of  new 
inventions,  and  by  the  discussion  of  problems  that  are  still  with  us,  such 
as  racial  intolerance,  or  undue  specialization  in  medicine,  which  fails  to 
cure  the  patient.  Holmes  is  a  good  illustration  of  the  differences  between 
toleration  and  liberality.  Toleration  always  presupposes  a  previous  dis- 
like and  his  grenerous  tributes  to  those  who  differed  with  him  are  the  re- 
suit  of  an  effort  rather  than  the  natural  outcome  of  a  basic  liberality. 
Like  all  rationalists  he  is  liberal  only  to  liberality,  rarely  to  conservatism. 
Yet  there  are  shrewd  observations  such  as  his  conclusion  that  toleration 
in  disputes  concerning  theology  is  usually  a  matter  of  good  breeding.  The 
student  of  literature  will  profit  by  his  discussion  of  the  great  increase  in 
the  amount  of  mediocre  verse,  which  is  competently  written  but  has 
little  originality,  and  Holmes'  critical  opinion  concerning  Whitman  is  at 
least  entertaining. 

One  of  the  most  important  of  the  essays  from  the  point  of  view  of 
the  relation  of  the  human  organs  to  the  creation  of  poetry  was  his  "Physi- 
ology of  Versification."  16  Holmes  based  upon  certain  experiments  in 
the  rate  of  respiration  of  18 17  individuals,  the  fact  that  the  great  majority 
breathed  from  sixteen  to  twenty-four  times  per  minute,  the  average  being 
twenty.  There  are  four  heart  beats  to  each  breath,  and  therefore  the 
reason  why  octosyllabic  verse  like  The  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel  or  Hia- 
watha is  the  easiest  to  read  aloud  lies  in  the  fact  that  it  follows  more  ex- 
actly than  any  other  the  natural  rhythm  of  respiration.  If,  as  he  discovered, 
one  reads  twenty  lines  of  a  four-stress  poem  in  a  minute,  and  naturally 
breathes  the  same  number  of  times  during  that  minute,  he  will  pronounce 
one  line  to  each  expiration,  taking  advantage  of  the  pause  for  inspira- 

16  Boston  Medical  and  Surgical  Journal,  Vol.  92  (Jan.  7,  1875),  pp.  6-9.  Reprinted 
in  Pages  from  an  Old  Volume  of  Life,  Riverside  Edition,  pp.  315-321. 


37o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tion.  The  very  ease  in  reading  such  verse  leads  to  sing-song.  With  five- 
stress  verse,  fourteen  lines  will  be  pronounced  in  a  minute.  If  a  breath  is 
allowed  to  each  line  the  respiration  will  be  slower  than  natural  and  a 
sense  of  effort  will  soon  be  the  consequence.  This  effort  will  be  greater 
with  the  six-stress  line,  while  with  the  seven-stress  verse,  the  reader  un- 
consciously divides  it  into  two  lines  with  four  and  three  stresses  each.  Dr. 
Holmes  called  attention  to  the  way  in  which  reciters  of  the  early  ballad 
poetry  accommodated  their  rhythm  to  the  breathing,  resulting  in  a4b3a4b3 
or  a4b3C4b3  stanzas.  He  was  not  aware  that  the  structure  of  the  Old 
English  long  alliterative  line,  with  its.  four  marked  stresses  would  have 
illustrated  his  discovery.  Nor  did  he  notice  how  it  explains  the  practice 
of  actors,  in  delivering  dramatic  blank  verse,  of  making  four-stress  lines 
out  of  the  five  stress  measure  by  slurring  one  of  the  accents,  thus  ac- 
commodating the  verse  to  their  breathing.  Holmes  closes  with  the  sugges- 
tion that  the  relations  of  verse  to  the  respiratory  system  may  be  easily 
extended,  and  his  essay  remains  one  of  the  landmarks  in  the  study  of 
versification. 

Although  Holmes  refused  to  be  limited  in  his  verse  to  American  themes, 
he  constantly  wrote  upon  them.  His  fluent  verse  was  in  demand  for 
many  occasions,  and  while  he  acceded  too  often  for  his  ultimate  reputa- 
tion, it  is  astonishing  how  well  he  maintained  his  average  achievement. 
His  saving  grace  of  humor  kept  him  from  perpetrating  the  platitudes  of 
which  Whittier  was  guilty,  and  there  is  a  polish  in  Holmes'  verse  which 
conceals  often  the  slight  value  of  the  material.  The  poems  dealing  with 
local  themes  form  the  largest  group  with  native  inspiration.  "Urania,  or 
A  Rhymed  Lesson"  contains  some  effective  satire  on  national  and  New 
England  life,  but  he  preaches  also  the  dignity  of  man  through  free  will: 

Made  in  His  image,  thou  must  nobly  dare 
The  thorny  crown  of  sovereignty  to  share. 

He  joined  Longfellow  in  his  disbelief  that  the  "Giant  West"  with  "the 
biggest  and  best  scenery"  must  necessarily  inspire  our  national  poet.  To 
him  the  best  scenery  is  the  "scenery  of  the  heart,"  and  he  concludes  in 
his  verses  written  for  the  semicentennial  of  the  New  England  Society  in 
1855,  "Earth  has  no  spot  like  that  corner  of  ground."  Narrowing  the 
circle  of  his  interest,  "Boston  Common"  or  "The  Cambridge  Churchyard" 
are  born  of  real  feeling,  while  the  number  of  poems  devoted  to  Harvard 
College  exceeds  any  other  group.  The  forty-four  poems  which  he  read 
at  the  annual  dinners  of  his  class  of  1829  are  a  unique  literary  performance. 
Some  belong  also  in  other  groups,  like  those  written  during  the  Civil  War, 
but  the  impulse  which  created  "All  Here"  or  "The  Boys"  sprang  from 
those  warm  friendships  which  have  been  among  the  great  gifts  of  the 
college  to  America.  "All  Here,"  written  in  1867  and  celebrating  the  class 
union,  unbroken  even  by  death,  reaches  a  high  level  of  poetic  appeal. 


THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE  371 

How   many,   brothers,   meet   to-night 
Around  our  boyhood's  covered  embers? 

Go  read  the  treasured  names  aright 
The  old  triennial  list  remembers; 

Though  twenty  wear  the  starry  sign 
That  tells  a  life  has  broke  its  tether, 

The  fifty-eight  of  'twenty  nine- 
God  bless  THE  BOYS!-are  all  together! 

The  large  numbers  that  crowd  the  colleges  now  have  taken  the  old 
meaning  from  the  class  unit,  but  anyone  who  can  read  unmoved  the 
tributes  Holmes  paid  to  his  class  and  his  college  is  to  be  pitied.  In  a  real 
sense  he  spoke  for  a  far  wider  impulse  than  any  one  local  attachment  and 
it  is  fortunate  that  a  poet  with  his  skill  in  avoiding  sentimentality  should 
have  celebrated  something  very  fine  in  American  life. 

Some  of  the  poems  dealing  with  locality  also  represent  Holmes'  interest 
in  legend  or  tradition,  "Agnes,"  a  narrative  dealing  with  colonial  days, 
and  the  ringing  verse  of  "The  Pilgrim's  Vision"  being  among  the  best. 
The  latter  also  belongs  to  the  patriotic  verse  of  Holmes.  "Grandmother's 
Story  of  Bunker  Hill"  reveals  his  ability  to  express  the  patriotic  note 
through  an  individual  emotion. 

The  patriotic  note  is  also  struck  in  poems  upon  political  heroes,  but 
they  are  not  among  his  happiest  efforts.  Better  are  those  to  scientific  men 
like  Humboldt,  and  best  of  all  are  those  to  other  writers,  among  them 
being  his  verses  to  Longfellow  on  his  seventieth  birthday  in  1868, 

How  shall  he  travel  who  can  never  go 
Where  his  own  voice  the  echoes  do  not  know? 

or  the  others  already  mentioned. 

The  fame  of  Holmes'  familiar  essays  has  perhaps  obscured  his  serious 
discussion  of  problems  of  a  scientific-moral  nature.  What  makes  "iVlech- 
anism  in  Thought  and  Morals"  1T  appealing  is  his  humanity,  his  defence 
of  human  beings  who  have  not  full  physical  or  moral  fortitude  against 
severe  moral  judgment  based  upon  the  actions  of  lunatics  or  those  who 
inherit  evil  tendencies.  His  generalizations  concerning  oriental  ideas 
mingled  with  medieval  conceptions  can  hardly  be  accepted,  for  Holmes' 
rationalistic  approach  to  medieval  moral  ideas  naturally  broke  down.  He 
concludes  that  "it  is  in  the  moral  world  that  materialism  has  worked  the 
strongest  confusion."  He  believes  it  began  with  the  denial  of  the  freedom 
of  the  will  and  he  carried  this  thought  into  his  essays  on  "Jonathan  Ed- 
wards" and  "Crime  and  Automatism."  His  arguments  cannot  be  discussed 
here,  but  one  is  constantly  impressed  by  the  way  in  which  Dr.  Holmes 
kept  up  with  recent  scientific  discoveries  and  his  rationalistic  attitude  to- 
ward the  theories  of  men  like  Huxley. 

17  Phi  Beta  Kappa  Address  in  1870. 


372  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  scientific-moral  attitude  of  Holmes  in  his  essays  he  carried  over 
to  his  fiction.  He  wrote  one  novel,  Elsie  Vernier  1S  whose  originality, 
charm  of  style  and  artistic  control  of  a  theme  that  in  the  hands  of  a  lesser 
writer  might  have  been  made  unbearable,  place  it  in  the  front  ranks  of 
English  fiction.  Elsie  Venner  is  a  girl  whose  mother  had  been  bitten  by 
a  snake  before  the  birth  of  the  child.  Dr.  Holmes  conveyed  with  skill  the 
fascination  and  the  repulsion  which  normal  people  have  for  a  human 
being  set  apart,  in  this  tragic  way,  from  complete  sympathy.  Her  love  for 
Bernard  Langdon  is  not  returned,  although  there  is  a  very  dramatic  pas- 
sage in  which  she  saves  his  life  from  the  bite  of  a  crotalus  by  the  stronger 
enchantment  she  throws  over  the  snake.  With  her  illness  and  death  the 
poison  passes  from  her.  Holmes  stated  in  his  second  Preface  that  the  real 
aim  of  the  story  was  to  test  the  doctrine  of  "original  sin"  and  whether 
Elsie  Venner  was  morally  responsible  for  her  actions.  But  Holmes  does 
not  obtrude  this  purpose  to  too  great  a  degree;  he  is  content  to  let  the 
story  submit  the  problem  to  the  reason  of  the  reader.  The  Guardian 
Angel  is  also  laid  in  a  New  England  village.  It  deals  with  heredity;  the 
heroine,  Myrtle  Hazard,  is  a  product  of  traits  of  four  women  ancestors: 
one  who  had  died  for  her  faith,  one  who  had  been  a  famous  beauty,  one 
who  had  been  accused  of  witchcraft,  and  one  who  had  had  Indian  blood. 
The  beauty,  Judith  Pride,  is  the  strongest  influence.  Myrtle  becomes  a 
nurse  in  the  Civil  War,  and  both  the  hero  and  the  villain  enter  the  Federal 
service,  but  the  war  is  not  the  important  element.  Myles  Gridley,  an 
elderly  teacher,  is  the  "Guardian  Angel"  who  helps  in  solving  various 
tangles.  The  novel  is  hardly  in  the  same  class  as  Elsie  Venner,  but  several 
of  the  minor  characters  are  well  drawn  and  it  is  interesting  principallv 
because  of  Holmes'  observations.  He  was  subject  to  hostile  criticism  for 
his  picture  of  a  clergyman,  who  was  certainly  unpleasant.  The  plot  of 
A  Mortal  Antipathy  is  so  absurd  that  it  hardly  bears  repetition  and  it  falls 
so  far  below  the  others  that  Dr.  Holmes  must  have  been  deserted  by  his 
sense  of  humor  when  he  allowed  it  to  be  published. 

The  biography  of  Emerson  is  well  done.  The  younger  biographers  who 
knew  Emerson,  tended  to  place  him  upon  a  pedestal.  Holmes  knew  him 
as  a  fellow  member  of  the  Saturday  Club,  and  took,  as  was  natural,  a 
more  realistic  view  of  his  friend.  He  sought  help  wherever  he  could  find 
it,  but  his  limitations  as  a  biographer  were  revealed  when  he  expressed 
his  belief  in  1884  that  he  was  "threshing  old  straw"  in  attempting  to  say 
anything  new  about  his  subject.  He  was  limited,  of  course,  by  the  com- 
pact form  of  the  American  Men  of  Letters  Series,  but  his  biography  is 
still  valuable  as  a  corrective  to  the  more  complete  biographies  of  Cabot 
and  Cooke,  and,  while  special  phases  of  Emerson's  work  have  been 
treated   more  adequately,   it  is  equal   to   any   full  length   biography  of 

18  It  ran  through  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  Jan.  i860,  to  April,  1861,  as  "The  Professor's 
Story." 


THE  RATIONALIST  IN  LITERATURE  373 

Emerson  which  the  twentieth  century  has  produced.  It  is  far  different 
with  the  biography  of  Motley.  This  is  an  eulogy  and  a  defence  of  his 
friend  against  the  charges  which  resulted  in  Motley's  dismissal  from  his 
ambassadorships  to  Austria  and  Great  Britain.  It  is  made  up  largely  from 
letters  and  statements  of  others  and  it  is  in  no  real  sense  a  critical 
biography. 

Holmes  had  a  wide  and  growing  reputation  in  England,  not  only  among 
the  general  readers,  but  also  among  discriminating  critics,  like  Thackeray 
and  Dickens,  for  his  prose,  and  Austin  Dobson,  Locke  and  Gosse,  for 
his  lighter  verse.  By  the  end  of  the  century  there  had  been  at  least  twenty- 
five  editions  of  the  Autocrat  and  fifteen  of  the  Professor  and  the  Poet. 
His  influence  upon  the  Continent  was  slight.  Only  a  few  sporadic  transla- 
tions appeared  in  French  and  German,  although  a  clever  French  transla- 
tion of  uThe  Last  Leaf"  appeared  after  his  death.  How  could  one  accus- 
tomed to  a  Continental  breakfast  understand  the  Autocrat? 

The  wide  popularity  of  Holmes1  work  in  his  own  land  was  greater 
than  his  influence  on  letters.  The  very  originality  of  the  situation  in  the 
Autocrat  forbade  imitation,  which  would  at  once  have  become  plagiarism. 
There  is  perhaps  some  echo  of  his  social  verse  in  Aldrich  but  Aldrich  had 
such  a  manner  of  his  own  that  there  is  little  evidence  of  derivation. 
Holmes'  influence  lay  rather  in  his  contribution  to  the  spread  of  ideas, 
to  the  unabashed  scrutiny  of  the  physician  who  healed  the  human  body 
and  tried  through  his  sympathy  and  understanding  to  help  the  souls  of 
the  disheartened  and  the  unhappy  by  the  magic  medicine  of  laughter. 


Chapter  23 


PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY 

It  was  natural  that  the  youngest— James  Russell  Lowell— of  the  great 
New  England  group  should  represent  certain  phases  of  them  all.  Like 
Longfellow,  his  horizons  were  constantly  widening,  through  travel  and 
study  of  native  and  foreign  literatures;  like  Emerson,  he  passed  through 
progressive  strata  of  national  concern  and  of  poetic  and  prose  expression; 
he  was  an  active  member  of  causes  and  movements  like  Whittier,  he 
was  as  caustic  a  critic  as  Holmes  and  as  concerned  with  moral  values, 
though  in  a  different  way,  as  Hawthorne.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  he 
differed  from  all  of  them  in  certain  respects,  for  he  was  much  more 
frequently  in  the  public  eye  than  any  of  them,  and  he  had  a  vigor  and 
even  a  carelessness  of  restraint  which  left  some  of  his  verses  unfinished. 
But  as  Henry  James  well  said  of  him: 

There  is  nothing  ineffectual  in  his  name  and  fame— they  stand  for  large  and 
delightful  things.  He  is  one  of  the  happy  figures  of  literature.  He  had  his 
trammels  and  his  sorrows,  but  he  drank  deep  of  the  tonic  draught,  and  he  will 
long  count  as  an  erect  fighting  figure  on  the  side  of  optimism  and  beauty.  He 
was  strong  without  narrowness,  he  was  wise  without  bitterness  and  glad 
without  fatuity. 

These  qualities  arose  from  his  most  striking  characteristic,  his  love  of 
democracy  and  of  freedom,  freedom  even  from  his  own  earlier  utter- 
ances, for  as  he  said,  "only  the  foolish  and  the  dead  never  change  their 
opinions." 

James  Russell  Lowell  was  born  at  Elmwood,  Cambridge,  iVlassachusetts, 
February  22,  18 19,  the  son  of  the  Reverend  Charles  Lowell,  pastor  of 
the  West  Church  in  Boston,  and  the  sixth  in  descent  from  Percival 
Lowell  who  had  come  to  America  in  1639.  Lowell's  mother,  Harriet 
Spence,  was  of  Celtic  origin  and  was  an  inspiration,  through  her  love  of 
ballad  literature,  for  the  taste  for  romance  which  showed  in  her  son. 
He  graduated  from  Harvard  College  in  1838,  after  his  unquenchable  love 

374 


PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY  375 

of  fun  had  rusticated  him  at  Concord  for  a  time.  He  was  admitted  to  the 
bar  but  he  never  liked  law  and  he  was  naturally  unsuccessful.  He  began 
the  difficult  struggle  to  support  himself  by  writing  for  the  Boston 
Miscellany  and  Graham's  Magazine,  and  in  1841  published  his  first  volume 
of  poetry,  A  Year's  Life.  Next  came  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  edit  and 
publish  The  Pioneer,  a  monthly  magazine  which  had  three  issues  but 
collapsed  partly  because  of  Lowell's  severe  eye  trouble,  partly  because 
of  the  liberality  of  the  ideas  and  generally  because  of  the  difficulties  of 
magazine  publication  at  that  time.  From  the  point  of  view  of  its  contents, 
it  deserved  to  succeed.  Poe's  "Lenore,"  "The  Tell-Tale  Heart"  and  "Notes 
upon  English  Verse";  Hawthorne's  "Hall  of  Fantasy"  and  "The  Birthmark"; 
Elizabeth  Barrett's  "The  Maiden's  Death";  besides  Lowell's  own  contribu- 
tions, at  least  seventeen  in  number,  established  its  quality.  Lowell's  policy 
as  outlined  in  the  introduction,  was  to  raise  the  tone  of  magazine  literature 
by  publishing  the  work  of  distinguished  American  writers  and  yet  to 
emphasize  the  universal  rather  than  the  parochial. 

In  his  second  volume,  the  Poems  of  1844,  Lowell  is  speaking  through 
Cromwell,  in  "A  Glance  behind  the  Curtain"  when  he  says,  "Freedom 
hath  yet  a  work  for  me  to  do,"  and  this  determination  was  strengthened 
by  his  marriage  in  1844  to  Maria  White,  devoted  also  to  liberty.  Lowell 
was  experimenting  in  various  fields,  printing  his  first  bit  of  prose  fiction, 
"The  First  Client"  in  the  Boston  Miscellany,  and  laying  the  foundation 
for  his  later  criticism  in  Conversations  on  Some  of  the  Old  Poets  (1845) 
in  which  he  revised  articles  on  Chaucer  and  the  Elizabethan  dramatists 
by  creating  imaginary  characters,  "John"  and  "Philip,"  to  discuss  them. 
Here  also  he  introduced  contemporary  topics,  such  as  the  illiberality  of 
the  established  church  of  New  England  "to  which  the  slaveholder  is 
admitted,  while  the  Unitarian  would  be  put  forth  as  unclean."  a  A  few 
months  in  1845  were  spent  in  Philadelphia,  Lowell  contributing  articles 
to  the  Pennsylvania  Freeman,  to  Graham's  Magazine  and  to  the  Broadway 
Journal.  It  was  his  anti-Slavery  period,  to  be  discussed  later.2  After  their 
return  to  Elmwood  the  circumstances  of  the  young  couple  were  made 
easier  by  a  $20,000  inheritance  from  the  estate  of  Maria  Lowell's  father. 

Lowell  did  not  limit  himself  to  the  Abolition  crusade.  In  1848  appeared 
such  different  poems  as  A  Fable  for  Critics,  The  Bigloiv  Papers  and 
The  Vision  of  Sir  Launfal.  As  he  said  in  a  letter  to  C.  F.  Briggs  in  1847, 
"One  half  of  me  is  clear  mystic  and  enthusiast,  the  other  is  humorist."  3 

Maria  Lowell  did  not  long  survive  their  visit  to  Italy,  Germany  and 
England  in  1851,  as  she  died  in  1853.  Meantime  he  had  begun  to  publish 
essays  describing  his  travels,  and  his  lectures  on  English  poets  in  1855 
led  to  his  appointment  to  succeed  Longfellow  as  Professor  of  Modern 

1  Conversations  (Cambridge,  1845),  p.  82. 

2  See  Chapter  25. 

3  Letters,  ed.  C.  E.  Norton  (1894),  Vol.  1,  p.  164. 


376  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Languages  and  Belles  Lettres  at  Harvard  College.  In  1857  Lowell  married 
Frances  Dunlap,  and  in  the  same  year  he  became  the  first  editor  of  the 
Atlantic  Monthly,  where  during  his  two  years  of  editorial  work  he 
published  many  prose  articles,  critical  and  political.  After  resigning  he 
wrote  the  second  series  of  The  Biglow  Papers  (1862-65)  for  the  Atlantic 
and  in  1863  he  became  editor  of  the  North  American  Review.  He  con- 
tinued to  publish  volumes  of  verse,  Under  the  Willows  (1868),  The 
Cathedral  (1869),  and  in  prose,  Fireside  Travels  (1864),  Among  My 
Books,  First  Series  (1870)  and  Second  Series  (1876)  and  My  Study 
Windows  (1871).  He  resigned  his  chair  in  1871  to  travel.  Oxford  and 
Cambridge  gave  him  honorary  degrees  and  although  he  resumed  his 
professorship  in  1874,  he  began  in  1877  a  new  career  when  he  was  ap- 
pointed to  the  Spanish  Ministry.  Although  there  had  been  somewhat 
strained  relations  between  Spain  and  the  United  States  in  consequence 
of  certain  actions  of  the  Cuban  filibusters,  it  was  a  comparatively  quiet 
time  in  Spanish  politics,  after  the  stormy  days  of  the  Carlist  wars  and 
constantly  shifting  governments.  Lowell's  knowledge  of  Spanish  litera- 
ture made  his  choice  a  happy  one,  and  his  tact  helped  to  solve  diplomatic 
questions.  Although  he  never  penetrated  to  the  fundamental  qualities 
of  the  Spanish  nature,  he  understood  the  political  situation.4  In  1880  he 
was  transferred  to  the  British  Mission,  in  which  he  made  an  even  greater 
success,  with  more  difficult  issues  to  handle.  Mrs.  Lowell  died  in  1885 
and  after  an  interval  he  returned  to  Cambridge.  He  took  his  part  in 
bringing  on  international  copyright,  and  his  last  years  were  spent  usually 
either  in  Cambridge  or  in  England.  Democracy  and  Other  Addresses 
came  in  1886  and  Political  Essays,  together  with  a  volume  of  poetry,  in 
1888.  In  1887  he  gave  the  Lowell  Lectures  once  more,  speaking  on  "The 
Old  English  Dramatists."  He  died  at  Elmwood,  August  12,  1891. 

In  Lowell's  early  poems,  we  find  the  record  of  his  own  experiences 
during  a  formative  period.  Some  of  these  verses  are  light  and  even  thin, 
and  it  is  a  young  man's  poetry,  but  with  all  its  obviousness  there  is  a 
freshness  that  is  charming.  Keats'  strong  influence  shows  in  "A  Legend 
of  Brittany,"  the  most  ambitious  of  the  poems  of  1843,  in  lusciousness  of 
phrase  and  celebration  of  passion.  Lowell  was  a  lover  of  the  romantic 
and  he  also  believed  that  in  human  life  there  was  the  best  subject  for 
poetry.  In  "L'Envoi"  he  went  far  in  his  poetic  creed: 

But  Poesy  springs  not  from  rocks  and  woods; 
Her  womb  and  cradle  are  the  human  heart, 
And  she  can  find  a  nobler  theme  for  song 
In  the  most  loathsome  man  that  blasts  the  sight 
Than  in  the  broad  expanse  of  sea  and  shore 
Between  the  frozen  deserts  of  the  poles. 

4  See  Romcra-Navarro,  El  Hispanismo  en  Norte  America  (Madrid,  1917).  Also 
Lowell's  Impressions  of  Spain,  ed.  J.  B.  Gilder  (Boston,  1899). 


PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY  377 

Lowell  expressed  the  same  ideas  in  his  prose.  In  his  essay  on  Thoreau 
in  1865  he  protested: 

I  look  upon  a  great  deal  of  the  modern  sentimentalism  about  Nature  as  a  mark 
of  disease. . . .  To  a  man  of  wholesome  constitution  the  wilderness  is  well 
enough  for  a  mood  or  a  vacation,  but  not  for  a  habit  of  life. . . .  The  divine 
life  of  Nature  is  more  wonderful,  more  various,  more  sublime  in  man  than 
in  any  other  of  her  works.5 

Lowell  was  consistent  in  this  belief.  In  "Fitz  Adam's  Story,"  published 
in  1867,  he  reaffirmed  it: 

I  who  love  Nature  much  as  sinners  can, 

Love  her  where  she  most  grandeur  shows,— in  man. 

Yet  probably  the  best  known  of  Lowell's  verses  is  the  fourth  stanza 
of  the  prelude  to  The  Vision  of  Sir  Launfal: 

And  what  is  so  rare  as  a  day  in  June? 

Then,  if  ever,  come  perfect  days: 
Then  Heaven  tries  earth  if  it  be  in  tune, 

And  over  it  softly  her  warm  ear  lays; 

It  is  the  interpretation  of  Nature,  the  direct  moral  symbolism  of  the 
poem  and  the  many  quotable  phrases  rather  than  any  picture  of  medieval 
life  which  carried  The  Vision  of  Sir  Launfal  into  popularity.  He  returned 
to  his  love  of  June  in  "Under  the  Willows"  in  1868,  called  in  the  Atlantic 
"A  June  Idyll,"  and  his  "Pictures  from  Appledore"  show  an  appreciation 
of  the  stormy  aspects  of  Nature.  It  was  really  not  that  he  loved  Nature 
less  but  that  he  loved  people  more. 

His  poetry  devoted  to  the  cause  of  Abolition  can  best  be  studied  from 
the  political  rather  than  the  aesthetic  point  of  view.6  Indeed,  in  eleven 
of  the  poems  reprinted  in  the  authorized  collection  of  his  works,  refer- 
ences to  Slavery  which  had  originally  appeared  in  their  first  publication 
have  been  omitted.7  Important  as  The  Biglow  Papers  are,  "The  Courtin'  ", 
which  served  as  Introduction  to  the  Second  Series,  will  probably  outlast 
any  of  the  other  poems  in  either  series  with  the  exception  of  "Jonathan 
to  John."  It  was  his  interest  in  freedom  in  general  that  prompted  him 
rather  than  any  love  for  the  slave  per  se.  His  poems  of  this  period  in  his 
life  refer  to  Lamartine,  Luther,  Palfrey,  W.  E.  Channing  and  others;  any- 
one who  stood  up  against  the  established  order  had  an  attraction  for 
Lowell.  His  "Ode  to  France"  celebrated  the  overthrow  of  Louis  Phillipe. 
Wherever  freedom  was  violated  he  spoke  in  its  defence;  in  "Villa  Franca," 

5  "Thoreau,"  My  Study  Windows,  Elmwood  Edition  (1904),  pp.  147-148. 

6  See  Chapter  25. 

7  "Al  Fresco,"  'Ambrose,"  "Beaverbrook,"  "Bibliolatres,"  "Eurydice,"  'A  Parable," 
"Lesson  of  the  Pine,"  "The  Falcon,"  "New  Year's  Eve,  1850,"  "The  Oak,"  "Arcturus." 


378  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  1859,  the  best  lines  are  those  which  deal  with  the  general  liberty  of 
ideas: 

Wait  a  little:  do  we  not  wait? 

Louis  Napoleon  is  not  Fate, 

Francis  Joseph  is  not  Time; 

There's  One  hath  swifter  feet  than  Crime; 

Cannon-parliaments  settle  naught; 

Venice  is  Austria's,— whose  is  Thought? 

,  The  losses  by  death  which  came  to  Lowell  find  expression  in  verses 
which  reveal  the  depth  of  his  grief.  "After  the  Burial"  (1868)  is  con- 
cerned with  the  death  of  his  second  daughter,  Rose,  who  lived  only  a 
few  months  in  1850.  Three  of  his  four  children  died  early.  "The  Dead 
House"  (1858)  deals  with  the  loss  of  Maria  Lowell.  They  contain  the 
struggles  of  a  soul  to  reconcile  Death  with  Life,  and  have  some  fine 
passages. 

Some  of  Lowell's  most  significant  poetry  was  written  in  the  ode  form. 
The  freedom  which  this  form  gives  permitted  him  to  combine  the  unity 
of  a  dignified  general  theme  with  the  variety  which  permitted  him  to 
include  individual  portraits  of  great  men.  He  had  used  the  form  in  1848 
in  his  "Ode  to  France"  and  in  1861  in  the  "Ode  to  Happiness": 

Thou  whose  swift  footstep  we  can  trace 
Away  from  every  mortal  door. 

The  best  are  those  inspired  by  his  love  of  country.  These  odes  con- 
ceived in  a  lofty  mood  and  expressed  in  a  wealth  of  controlled  imagery, 
represent  a  patriotism  which  had  earlier  said:  "It  is  not  enough  to  love 
one's  country;  one  must  be  in  love  with  it." 

Into  the  "Ode  Recited  at  the  Harvard  Commemoration,  July  21,  1865," 
he  poured  his  grief  for  the  dead,  and  celebrated 

That  swift  validity  in  noble  veins, 

Of  choosing  danger  and  disdaining  shame. 

The  magnificent  portrait  of  Lincoln  was  not  included  in  the  Ode  as 
delivered  on  July  2 1  but  was  written  later.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  Ode 
Lowell  rose  to  the  very  height  of  pure  poetry  on  a  patriotic  theme: 

O  Beautiful!  my  Country!  ours  once  more! 
Smoothing  thy  gold  of  war-dishevelled  hair 
O'er  such  sweet  brows  as  never  other  wore, 

And  letting  thy  set  lips, 

Freed  from  wrath's  pale  eclipse, 
The  rosy  edges  of  their  smile  lay  bare, 
What  words  divine  of  lover  or  of  poet 
Could  tell  our  love  and  make  thee  know  it, 
Among  the  Nations  bright  beyond  compare? 


PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY  379 

As  William  C.  Brownell,  one  of  the  most  severe  of  critics,  said  truly, 
"We  can  ask  the  world  to  match  that." 

"Under  the  Old  Elm,"  an  ode  read  at  Cambridge  on  the  hundredth 
anniversary  of  Washington's  taking  command  of  the  Army,  July  3,  1775, 
is  a  splendid  tribute  to  Washington,  the  celebration  of  the  strong  man 
who  had  a  character  which  no  shock  could  stir.  With  an  intuitive  under- 
standing Lowell  realized  how  the  Revolution  turned  upon  the  unbreak- 
able will  of  Washington.  The  passage  in  which  he  describes  the  "soldier 
and  statesman"  is  upon  the  high  level  of  his  picture  of  Lincoln  in  the 
"Commemoration  Ode": 

Surely  if  any  fame  can  bear  the  touch, 

His  will  say  "Here!"  at  the  last  trumpet's  call, 

The  unexpressive  man  whose  life  expressed  so  much. 

The  "Ode  read  at  the  One  Hundredth  Anniversary  of  the  Fight  at 
Concord  Bridge,  19th  April,  1875"  is  another  utterance  with  Freedom 
as  the  symbolic  figure: 

Freedom,    oh,    fairest    of   all 

The  daughters  of  Time  and  Thought! 

Notwithstanding  the  doubt  in  his  mind  whether  the  corruption  of 
1875  has  justified  the  sacrifices  of  those  who  fought  for  Freedom,  his 
final  note  is  optimistic.  A  similar  note  is  struck  in  his  "Ode  for  the  Fourth 
of  July"  in  1876.  In  his  comparison  of  the  contribution  of  Greece  and 
Rome  to  our  civilization,  he  regrets  the  classic  grace  that  we  have  not  yet 
acquired,  but  he  points  clearly  to  his  conviction  that  in  our  conception 
of  freedom  America  has  made  a  more  important  contribution  than  theirs. 
His  appeal  to  the  coming  race  not  to  count  it  as  our  crime  "that  we  who 
fain  would  sing  are  here  before  our  time,"  reveals  Lowell's  understanding 
that  his  generation  had  not  uttered  the  last  word  upon  democracy  but 
that  he  represented  the  solid  foundation  upon  which  a  freedom  could 
safely  build  the  structure  that  endures  rather  than  a  top-heavy  if  more 
startling  edifice. 

His  memorial  ode  to  Agassiz  is  a  tribute  to  the  great  scientist, 

Large-limbed  and  human  as  I  saw  him  near 
Loosed  from  the  stiffening  uniform  of  fame. 

It  becomes  a  series  of  portraits  also  of  the  members  of  the  Saturday 
Club  and  an  expression  of  Lowell's  belief  in  immortality. 

Among  his  later  poems  "The  Cathedral"  is  one  of  the  best.  He  varies 
from  appreciation  of  the  Past  and  the  faith  that  had  built  the  Cathedral 
at  Chartres  to  the  scepticism  that  was  the  result  of  his  reaction  against 
the  Calvinism  of  his  own  ancestors.  The  wondrous  beauty  of  the  Cathedral 
seems  to  appeal  to  him  more  as  a  stimulator  of  ideas  than  a  symbol  of 


38o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

crreat  art.  He  is  tolerant  of  the  Church  but  not  liberal;  indeed  he  did  not 
comprehend  its  inner  relation  to  the  Cathedral.  Finally  he  reverts  to  the 
position  of  the  man  who  can  only  feel  his  soul  through  God,  so  does  not 
fear  His  withdrawal.  It  is  a  relic  of  the  Unitarian  philosophy.  Among 
these  later  poems  "Endymion"  showed  his  unfailing  power  to  depict 
the  reality  of  idealism. 

Lowell  wrote  sonnets  throughout  his  career.  They  are  competent  but 
they  do  not  rise  to  the  level  of  those  by  Longfellow  or  those  by  Boker. 

J  c 

Lowell  needed  more  room;  the  shackles  of  form  seemed  to  limit  his 
expression.  His  last  poem,  unpublished  during  his  lifetime,  was  "On  a 
Bust  of  General  Grant"— an  attempt  to  find  a  hero  in  "a  strong,  simple, 
silent"  man,  without  omitting-  a  reference  to  Grant's  weakness  as  Presi- 
dent.  It  is  not  one  of  his  best. 

Lowell's  conception  of  democracy  was  that  of  a  few  defending  the 
common  man  by  their  own  ability.  In  the  "Stanzas  on  Freedom"  he  said: 

They  are  slaves  who  dare  not  be 
In  the  right  with  two  or  three. 

It  was  not  his  function  to  express  the  feelings  of  the  mob.  He  believed 
in  destroying  tyranny  by  peaceful  means,  by  inveighing  with  crisp 
rhythmical  epigram  against  greed  and  corruption,  by  taking  action 
against  these  elements  of  democracy  in  order  to  save  it  from  its  own 
evils.  He  had  no  interest  in  monarchy  or  oligarchy.  He  comments  in  1886 
that  the  assertion  of  private  right  may  be  pushed  to  the  obscuring  of 
public  duty— and  it  may  be  surprising  to  some  to  note  his  conviction  that 
the  State  has  always  been  and  must  always  be  the  supremely  important 
thing. 

Lowell's  attitude  toward  science  was  that  of  the  artist  who  was  aware 
of  its  achievements  but  also  knew  that  they  -were  frequently  temporary 
and  supplanted  earlier  discoveries,  while  the  products  of  fine  art  were 
not  altered  in  their  validity  by  later  ones,  even  if  they  were  temporarily 
displaced  by  fashions  in  criticism.  In  "Credidimus  Jovem  Regnare"  (1887) 
he  flicks  the  assumptions  of  Darwin  and  Huxley  satirically.  And  he  called 
attention  in  "The  Progress  of  the  World"  (1886)  that  "within  the  historic 
period  no  new  animal  has  been  tamed  to  the  service  or  companionship 
of  man."  His  own  reactions  to  the  substitution  of  sceptical  analysis  for 
faith  might  be  epitomized  in  Robert  Frost's  later  epigram: 

For  dear  me,  why  abandon  a  belief 
Merely  because  it  ceases  to  be  true. 
Cling  to  it  long  enough,  and  not  a  doubt 
It  will  turn  true  again. 

Lowell  revealed  in  the  poem  that  nostalgia  for  the  surety  of  belief 
in  the  doctrines  he  had  known  in  his  youth. 


PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY  381 

His  belief  in  Democracy,  however,  never  faltered.  In  "At  the  Burns 
Centennial1'  in  1859  he  celebrated  the  poet  who  "makes  man  of  prince 
and  peasant."  Among  his  last  poems,  in  "St.  Michael  the  Weigher"  he 
carried  his  belief  in  democracy  into  eternity.  One  of  the  foremost  liberals 
of  his  time  became  a  liberal  conservative,  just  as  his  hatred  of  the  corrup- 
tion of  politics  in  the  seventies  had  led  him  to  write  in  "Tempora  Mu- 
tantur"  an  idealization  of  the  days  when  "The  Ten  Commandments  had 
a  meaning." 

Lowell's  essays  form  in  bulk  the  greater  portion  of  his  work.  The 
"Moosehead  Journal,"  (1853)  the  earliest  of  these  which  he  included 
among  his  collected  works,  represents  the  descriptions  of  places,  which 
form  one  group  of  the  essays.  As  Lowell  says,  "There  is  little  about 
Moosehead  Lake  in  it."  It  is  a  humorous  description  of  New  England 
character.  Some  of  the  most  interesting  of  the  essays  of  travel  are  the 
"Leaves  from  my  Journal  in  Italy  and  Elsewhere"  (1854),  a  small  volume 
in  themselves  and  a  reflection  of  his  voyage  in  1851.  At  the  very  begin- 
ning Lowell  showed  his  preference  for  human  nature  over  scenery. 
"There  is  nothing  so  desperately  monotonous  as  the  sea,"  he  writes,  and 
he  regrets  that  there  are  no  more  travelers  with  imagination,  but  only 
analysts  and  scientists.  Lowell  put  his  finger  on  the  reason  why  the  usual 
travel  books  die  so  easily.  His  on  the  contrary  are  not  merely  records 
of  things  seen;  they  are  chronicles  of  moments  of  inspiration.  He  grew 
to  love  Italy.  At  first  his  New  England  prejudices,  his  dislike  of  the 
Papacy,  which  to  him  was  "dead  in  the  Vatican,"  held  him  back.  Then 
the  poetry  of  St.  Peter's  overwhelmed  him,  and  he  wrote  his  magnificent 
tribute  to  the  Church  that  had  built  it: 

The  secret  of  her  power  is  typified  in  the  mystery  of  the  Real  Presence.  She 
is  the  only  church  that  has  been  loyal  to  the  heart  and  soul  of  man,  that  has 
clung  to  her  faith  in  the  imagination,  and  that  would  not  give  over  her 
symbols  and  images  and  sacred  vessels  to  the  perilous  keeping  of  the  iconoclast 

Understanding She    is   the    only    poet    among    the    churches,    and,    while 

Protestantism  is  unrolling  a  pocket  surveyor's-plan,  takes  her  votary  to  the 
pinnacle  of  her  temple,  and  shows  him  meadow,  upland,  and  tillage,  cloudy 
heaps  of  forest  clasped  with  the  river's  jewelled  arm,  hillsides  white  with 
the  perpetual  snow  of  flocks,  and,  beyond  all,  the  interminable  heave  of  the 
unknown  ocean. 

Even  as  we  read  this  eloquent  description,  we  can  hear  Lowell's 
chuckle  as  he  wonders  how  many  will  remember  who  took  Christ  to  the 
pinnacle  of  the  temple! 

The  title  of  the  volume  in  which  the  Leaves  was  included,  Fireside 
Travels,  indicates  Lowell's  philosophy  of  travel.  He  believed  with  Emer- 
son that  "the  wise  man  travels  to  discover  himself,"  and  that  while 
knowledge  grew  through  contact  with  new  things  which  kindled  the 


382  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

imagination,  the  wise  man  could  find  quite  as  much  in  his  own  mind, 
provided  that  he  could  use  "the  eyes  of  his  heart."  Such  higher  provin- 
cialism led  to  the  essays  upon  historical  subjects  such  as  "Cambridge 
Thirty7  Years  Ago"  (1854).  &  *s  a  charming  nostalgic  picture  of  the  town 
worthies  and  of  Harvard,  teachers  and  students,  customs,  varied  by 
quotable  judgments  upon  things  in  general  and  by  one  notable  portrait 
of  Washington  Allston.  The  other  essays  dealing  with  New  England 
past  were  prompted  by  Lowell's  reviews  of  definite  books,  but  their  main 
interest  is  historical  rather  than  critical.  "New  England  Two  Centuries 
Ago"  (1865)  is  a  celebration  of  the  better  qualities  of  the  Puritans,  even 
with  a  defence  of  their  intolerance.  Lowell  did  not  differentiate  between 
the  Pilgrims  at  Plymouth  and  the  Puritans  of  Massachusetts  Bay  in  their 
education  and  standing  in  England.  He  went  to  the  collection  of  the 
Massachusetts  Historical  Society  for  first-hand  information  and  he  did 
not  hesitate  to  treat  humorously  the  hypocrisy  of  some  of  the  Puritan 
writers  who  mingled  concern  for  the  future  life  with  a  strong  desire  to 
profit  in  this  one.  He  avoided  their  relations  with  the  Indians,  or  other 
examples  of  their  ruthlessness,  and  indeed  he  is  an  apologist  rather  than 
a  historian.  We  can  be  quite  sure  that  had  he  lived  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  he  would  have  been  exiled  from  Massachusetts  for  his  love  of 
freedom.  His  essay  on  "Witchcraft"  (1868)  contains  an  interesting  and 
scholarly  investigation  of  the  early  beliefs  in  sorcery,  all  tending  to  ex- 
cuse Salem  witchcraft  on  the  ground  that  other  days  and  races  had  also 
been  guilty.  He  acknowledges  that  in  the  case  of  Salem  the  belief  in  the 
supernatural  was  fanned  into  the  flame  of  persecution  by  the  desire  of  the 
Reverend  Mr.  Parris  to  maintain  his  disappearing  power,  but  Lowell's 
main  conclusion  is  that  the  strength  of  the  Puritan  conscience  was  shown 
in  the  refusal  of  the  victims  to  plead  guilty!  There  are  only  nine  pages 
devoted  to  the  book  he  is  reviewing,  Upham's  Salem  Witchcraft,  and 
eighty-five  to  the  history,  and  the  main  impulse  of  the  essay  is  not  critical 
but  argumentative. 

Another  group,  later  in  date,  include  his  nature  essay,  "My  Garden 
Acquaintance"  (1871),  an  observant  study  of  the  birds  of  his  region. 
It  has  the  quality  of  the  familiar  essay,  of  which  Lowell's  "A  Certain 
Condescension  in  Foreigners"  (1869)  is  his  best.  This  strikes  just  the 
right  tone,  defending  ourselves  from  the  charge  of  being  vulgar,  "one 
of  those  horribly  vague  accusations  the  victim  of  which  has  no  defence." 
Lowell,  by  freely  acknowledging  some  of  our  national  shortcomings, 
skillfully  turns  the  tables  in  the  very  acknowledgement.  "We  said  e ether 
instead  of  ey ether,  following  therein  the  fashion  of  our  ancestors,  who 
unhappily  could  bring  over  no  English  better  than  Shakespeare's."  "We 
had  been  a  desert,  we  became  a  museum. .  . .  The  sociologists  (I  think 
they  call  themselves  so)  were  the  hardest  to  bear.  I  have  even  known 
a  professor  of  this  fearful  science  to  come  disguised  in  petticoats."  There 


PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY  383 

is  hardly  an  essay  of  Lowell's  so  full  of  quotations.  The  steady  sparkle 
might  have  been  even  more  delightful  if  Lowell  had  not  grown  serious 
and  definitely  defended  our  civilization.  In  such  a  contest  the  sortie  is 
better  than  the  drawbridge.  A  certain  whimsy  is  necessary  to  the  familiar 
essay  and  Lowell  gives  us  this  in  his  "A  Good  Word  for  Winter,"  where 
after  quoting  many  poets  upon  that  season,  he  acknowledges  that  some 
of  their  best  lines  are  upon  the  cheerful  fire  that  protects  one  from  the 
cold.  The  picture  of  frost  as  an  artist  is  charming,  and  that  of  the  winter 
moon  "whose  gleam  runs  before  her  over  the  snow,  a  breath  of  light, 
as  she  rises  on  the  infinite  silence  of  winter  night." 

Lowell  treated  education  quite  frequently,  either  in  specific  essays  and 
addresses,  or  collaterally  in  his  usual  habit  of  comment.  He  welcomed 
President  Eliot's  elective  system  in  1886  in  his  address  at  Harvard,  with 
some  misgivings,  urging  the  retention  of  Greek,  but  as  a  study  of  Greek 
literature  rather  than  a  language  exercise,  and  he  protested  eloquently 
against  State  Socialism  in  education,  declaring  that  it  was  the  function 
of  the  parent  to  decide  where  and  what  his  son  studied,  not  the  State, 
thus  anticipating  the  danger  made  concrete  by  the  Oregon  Case  years 
later.  To  him  the  education  of  the  highest  grade  of  intelligence  was  the 
primary  concern  of  democracy.  In  his  address  upon  Richard  HI  at  Edin- 
burgh in  1883,  he  proposes  as  a  new  thought,  a  professorship  to  interpret 
Shakespeare.  His  plea  for  the  giving  of  Modern  Languages  as  respectable 
a  place  in  the  college  curriculum  as  Greek  and  Latin,  made  in  his  address 
as  president  of  the  Modern  Language  Association  in  1889,  revealed  his 
belief  that  language  teaching  must  be  a  means  toward  appreciating  any 
literature  rather  than  as  an  end  in  itself.  Had  his  advice  been  taken,  the 
languages  might  not  have  lost  their  fight  to  retain  their  position  as  the 
backbone  of  the  college  curriculum. 

In  his  Introduction  to  the  Riverside  Edition  of  his  works,  he  speaks 
of  his  essays  as  "literary  and  critical,"  evidently  feeling  a  difference  be- 
tween these  terms.  His  critical  essays  will  be  discussed  in  the  chapter  on 
the  development  of  American  criticism,  where  he  occupies  an  important 
place.  For  the  same  reason  Lowell's  political  activities  will  be  discussed 
best  in  the  chapter  on  the  relations  of  literature  and  politics.  Lowell  was 
so  broad  in  his  interests  that  he  becomes  the  representative  man  of  letters 
of  his  day. 

The  youngest  of  the  New  England  group,  he,  especially  in  his  own 
poetry,  illustrates  the  progress  of  that  supremacy.  In  the  fiery  poems  of 
his  youth,  in  the  patriotic  indignation  of  his  middle  age  and  in  the  serene 
dignity  of  his  later  years,  he  illustrates  the  rise,  the  ferment  and  the  sub- 
siding of  the  inspiration  of  New  England. 


Chapter  24 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF 
AMERICAN  CRITICISM 

Criticism,  to  have  permanent  value  as  literature,  must  be  creative.  The 
critic,  in  addition  to  a  knowledge  of  the  age  in  which  the  literature  he 
is  discussing  was  written,  must  be  aware  of  standards  founded  not  on 
mere  temporary  rules  or  fashions  but  upon  those  laws  of  taste  and  judg- 
ment which  have  stood  the  test  of  time.  He  must,  however,  also  be  recep- 
tive to  the  work  of  a  new  poet  or  prose  artist  who  has  proven  by  his 
genius  that  what  seemed  to  be  such  a  law  has  been  merely  a  temporary 
rule,  waiting  for  the  artist  capable  of  breaking  it.  Much  of  the  confusion 
that  pervades  criticism  arises  from  the  difficulty  of  deciding  whether 
the  artist  has  led  a  revolution  or  merely  rediscovered  a  forgotten 
fallacy.  The  critic  who  can  evolve  from  such  successes  or  failures  prin- 
ciples which  become  standards,  is  a  constructive  literary  artist.  That 
such  critics  are  rare  is  obvious.  The  mass  of  criticism  is  merely  descrip- 
tive; it  reflects  the  critic's  personal  likes  or  dislikes  concerning  a  book 
and  is  usually  worthless.  Destructive  criticism,  a  temptation  to  a  clever 
phrase-maker,  is  also  seldom  of  any  value,  however  brilliant  it  may  seem 
at  the  moment.  Analytic  criticism,  which  seeks  to  discover  the  author's 
intention,  then,  dismissing  nonessentials,  goes  to  the  heart  of  the  work 
in  question,  and  presents  a  clear  estimate  of  the  accomplishment  of  the 
writer,  is  relatively  infrequent.  When  it  is  combined  with  an  intuitive 
taste  for  the  true  and  the  beautiful,  it  is  likely  to  become  constructive 
criticism,  which  is  written  by  very  few.  The  constructive  critic  must 
be  widelv  read;  he  must  have  a  keen  sense  of  comparative  values;  and 
he  must  be  able  instinctivclv  to  recognize  the  capacitv  and  the  limitations 
of  a  literary  form.  He  must  be  able  to  create  a  central  conception  from 
which  his  discussion  radiates  and  to  which  he  may  return  in  order  to 
give  unity  to  his  critical  judgment.  Then  only  can  he   like  Poe,  define  a 

384 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  385 

literary  form,  like  Emerson,  establish  a  principle,  or,  like  Lowell,  depict 
with  authority  a  period  of  literature. 

American  criticism  of  the  early  years  of  the  nineteenth  century  was  not 
infrequently  of  high  calibre  but  it  was  usually  written  as  a  by-product 
by  lawyers' or  clergymen  or  by  writers  more  concerned  with  other  forms 
of  literature.  It  was  institutional  rather  than  personal  in  its  tone.  It  was 
usually  unsigned  and  the  reputation  of  the  periodical  determined  its 
influence.  Yet  there  were  notable  criticisms,  such  as  Prescott's  analysis, 
"Essay  Writing"  and  his  history  of  the  essay.1  The  North  American 
Review  in  Boston,  or  The  American  Quarterly  Review  in  Philadelphia 
contain  critical  articles  which  are  usually  superior  to  any  criticism  now 
appearing  in  American  journals.  In  those  days  critics  were  allowed 
sufficient' space  to  derive  from  a  real  analysis  of  the  book  in  question  some 
oreneral  principles. 

Notwithstanding  the  impression  often  stated  that  the  functions  of 
the  poet  and  the  critic  call  for  different  forms  of  ability,  the  best  criticism 
in  this  period  was  written  by  Bryant,  Poe,  Emerson  and  Lowell. 

*         *         * 
The  significance  of  Bryant's  criticism  has  not  been  generally  recog- 
nized, probably  because  it' was  not  gathered,  even  in  selections,  until  after 
his  death.  His  "Lectures  on  Poetry"  have  been  discussed  in  connection 
with  his  own  verse.2  They  are  a  landmark  in  our  criticism  because  they 
dealt  with  basic  principles.  In  his  other  early  criticism  his  discussion  of 
American  verse  in  18 18  3  is  of  importance  because  of  his  future  achieve- 
ment and  his  appreciation  of  our  merits  and  defects.  He  called  attention 
to  the  foreign  judgments  of  those  who  "were  slenderly  acquainted  with 
the  subject,"  and  to  "the  swaggering  and  pompous  pretensions  of  many 
at  home.  "National  pride  should  foster  the  infant  literature  of  our  coun- 
try" but  it  was  "detrimental  to  bestow  on  mediocrity  the  praise  due  to 
excellence."    He   begins   our   national   poetry   with   Francis    Hopkmson 
and  Philip  Freneau.  The  most  salient  feature  of  his  survey  as  a  young 
critic  was  his  sanity  in  judging  such  a  group  as  the  "Connecticut  Wits, 
then  the  gods  of  the  poetical  Olympus,  but  whom  he  declined  to  over- 
estimate, pointing  out  that  "the  heart  is  rarely  addressed  in  their  poetry. 
One  remark,  "On  the  whole,  there  seems  to  be  more  good  taste  among 
those  who  read  than  those  who  write  poetry  in  our  country/'  is  worth 
preserving.  Another  review,  this  time  of  Catherine  Sedgwick's  Redwood, 
was  the  occasion  of  a  discussion  of  American  society  as  a  field  for  fiction. 
Bryant  uses  society  in  a  rather  broad  sense,  and  rejected  the  idea  that 
novels  of  social  life  should  deal  with  the  surface  of  rank  or  station.    But 

1  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  22  (April,  1822),  pp.  3I9~35°- 

2  See  Chapter  15. 

a  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  7  (July,  1818),  pp.  198-211. 
*  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  20  (April,  1825),  pp.  245-272. 


3  86  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

we  soon  grow  weary  of  all  this,"  he  said,  "and  ask  for  objects  of  sympathy 
and  regard."  He  urged  that  the  contrasts  which  European  life  afforded 
were  matched  bv  the  wide  contrasts  of  character  fostered  bv  our  vast 
geographical  differences  of  climate  and  opportunity.  "If  our  country  is 
not  the  country  of  intrigue,  it  is  at  least  the  country  of  enterprise." 

One  of  Bryant's  characteristics  as  a  critic  was  his  ability  to  select  the 
finest  stanzas  of  a  poem  for  illustration.  In  a  review  of  Halleck's  Alnwick 
Castle  with  Other  Poems,5  he  chose  the  two  stanzas  of  "Marco  Bozzaris" 
beginning:  "Come  to  the  Bridal  Chamber,  Death!"  for  special  mention, 
and  nearly  every  critic  has  followed  him  since.  Another  element  in  his 
criticism  lies  in  his  felicity  in  the  employment  of  imagery.  In  speaking 
of  Cooper's  slowness  in  starting  his  novels,  he  compares  the  progress  of 
the  plot  to  one  of  his  own  vessels,  working  awkwardly  out  of  a  harbor. 
Then  he  continues: 

. . .  We  are  impatient  and  weary,  but  when  the  vessel  is  once  in  the  open  sea, 
and  feels  the  free  breath  of  heaven  in  her  full  sheets,  our  delight  and  admiration 
are  all  the  greater  at  the  grace,  the  majesty,  and  power  with  which  she  divides 
and  bears  down  the  waves,  and  pursues  her  course  at  will  over  the  great  waste 
of  waters.6 

The  temptation  is  strong  to  quote  from  the  penetrating  analysis  of 
Cooper's  merits  and  defects,  and  from  the  eloquent  close.  The  occasion 
of  this  address  and  the  others  led  to  eulogy,  of  course,  but  Bryant's  skill- 
ful analysis  of  the  Life  of  Washington  in  his  memorial  address  on  Irving 
might  be  paraphrased,  "the  works  of  his  subject  are  left  to  speak  their 
own  praise." 

In  Bryant's  essay  on  the  "Poets  and  Poetry  of  the  English  Language," 
prefaced  to  his  Library  of  Poetry  and  Song,  in  1870,  he  gave  a  survey  of 
English  poetry  which,  while  somewhat  weak  on  the  earliest  periods,  was 
of  significance  in  his  treatment  of  the  later  centuries.  He  agreed  with 
Poe  that  poems  of  moderate  length  are  superior  in  charm  to  those  longer 
epics  which  are  more  famous.  Of  Wordsworth's  contribution  to  sim- 
plicity he  recognized  that  it  was  "but  the  consummation  of  a  tendency 
already  existing,"  and,  while  he  acknowledged  that  the  stamp  of  his 
example  is  visible  on  the  writings  of  all  the  poets  of  the  present  day, 
"Wordsworth  was  unnecessarily  afraid  of  being  epigrammatic."  In  speak- 
ing of  the  effect  of  a  great  poet  upon  his  young  contemporaries,  Bryant 
observed  tellingly,  "it  is  reflected  sometimes  with  an  effect  like  that  of  a 
face  beheld  in  a  tarnished  mirror."  Bryant  was  a  constant  foe  to  artifi- 
ciality; he  pilloried  those  poets  who  thought  that  "by  putting  a  sentence 
out  of  its  proper  place,  they  were  writing  like  Milton."  To  him  the 
luminous  style  was  essential,  "The  elements  of  poetry  lie  in  natural  objects, 

6  United  States  Review  and  Literary  Gazette,  Vol.  2  (April,  1827),  pp.  8-13. 
6  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  1,  p.  329. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  387 

in  the  vicissitudes  of  human  life,  in  the  emotions  of  the  human  heart, 
and  the  relations  of  man  to  man.  He  who  can  present  them  in  combina- 
tions and  lights  which  at  once  affect  the  mind  with  a  deep  sense  of  their 
truth  and  beauty  is  the  poet  for  his  own  age  and  the  ages  that  succeed 
it."  7  Obvious,  perhaps,  now,  but  he  had  held  to  the  faith  in  his  own  verse 
for  over  sixty  years.  In  a  more  subtle  vein  was  his  tribute  to  Burns  at  a 
dinner  on  January  25,  1876.  No  one  but  a  poet  of  keen  insight  could 
have  said: 

He  saw  by  what  harmonies,  unperceived  by  the  common  mind,— all  forms  of 
animal  or  vegetable  life— were  allied  to  human  destiny,  and  as  he  spoke  of 
them,  he  invested  them,  to  our  apprehension,  with  that  radiant  newness  which 
we  may  conceive  them  to  have  worn  in  the  sight  of  the  first  man  when  he 
opened  his  eyes  on  the  fresh  creation  around  him.  Such  is  the  genius  of  Burns.8 


Poe  began  to  enunciate  his  critical  theories  in  his  "Letter  to  Mr.  B"— 
an  introduction  to  his  Poems  of  183 1.  The  most  important,  the  statement 
that  "A  poem  in  my  opinion,  is  opposed  to  a  work  of  science  by  having 
for  its  immediate  object  pleasure,  not  truth,"  he  took  verbatim  from 
Coleridge.9  Poe  was  using  "science"  in  its  primary  meaning  of  accepted 
facts  and  really  objected  to  facts  rather  than  truth,  for  his  poetry  or 
fiction  contains  no  essential  untruth.  Later,  indeed,  he  spoke  of  the  desire 
to  knonjo  as  essential  to  poetry.  Poe  expressed  in  his  poem,  "Israfel,"  in 
this  volume,  his  position  that  "an  unimpassioned  song"  was  to  be  despised. 
He  also  stated  his  belief  that  the  poet  is  the  best  critic. 

After  Poe  became  the  editor  of  the  Southern  Literary  Messenger,  he 
proceeded,  through  his  reviews  of  new  volumes  of  poetry  and  fiction, 
largely  American,  to  establish  his  critical  theories.  In  January,  1836,  he 
discussed  the  question  of  the  length  of  a  poem  as  affecting  "what  is 
rightly  termed  by  A.  W.  Schlegel,  the  unity  or  totality  of  interest"  In 
April,  1836,  he  began  in  one  of  the  best  of  his  early  critical  essays,  upon 
Drake's  The  Culprit  Fay  and  Halleck's  Alnwick  Castle,  to  inveigh 
against  the  earlier  excessive  admiration  of  foreign  writings  and  the  con- 
temporary puffing  of  native  work.  He  acknowledges  in  a  footnote  that 
there  are  noble  exceptions  to  this  rule,  but  his  general  statement,  which 
is  only  partly  true,  has  become  a  cliche  of  literary  historians,  unaware 
of  the  good  work  of  men  like  Prescott,  W.  H.  Gardiner,  W.  E.  Channing 
and  Robert  Walsh,  Jr.,  and  is  a  tribute  to  the  influence  which  Poe  has 
exercised  upon  later  critics.  He  proceeds  to  build  up  a  definition  of 
poetry  through  the  establishment  of  two  qualities,  Veneration  and 
Ideality.  The  latter  became  one  of  his  cardinal  beliefs: 

7  Introduction,  p.  39.  Also  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  2,  p.  158. 

8  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  2,  pp.  319-320. 

9  Biographia  Liter  aria,  Chap.  XIV,  p.  164. 


3 88  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Poesy  is  the  sentiment  of  Intellectual  Happiness  here,  and  the  Hope  of  a  higher 
Intellectual  Happiness  hereafter. 

Imagination  is  its  soul.  With  the  passions  of  mankind— although  it  may  modify 
them  greatly— although  it  may  exalt,  or  inflame,  or  purify,  or  control  them— it 
would  require  little  ingenuity  to  prove  that  it  has  no  inevitable,  and  indeed  no 
necessary  co-existence. 

He  then  drew  a  distinction  between  Imagination  and  Fancy,  revealing 
how  Drake's  poetry  is  an  example  of  a  talent  for  comparison,  but  not  of 
"Imaginative  power,  springing  from  the  brain  of  the  poet,  enveloped  in 
the  moral  sentiments  of  grace,  of  color,  of  motion,  or  of  the  mystical, 
of  the  august,  in  short  of  the  ideal."  Poe  does  not  here  define  Imagination, 
in  contrast  to  Fancy,  as  the  faculty  in  which  objects  fuse,  in  order  to 
create  something  new,  but  his  definition  of  Ideality  implies  it,  and  indeed 
he  could  have  found  such  a  distinction  in  Coleridge's  Biographia  Literaria. 

Poe's  fine  critical  taste  was  shown  in  his  selections  from  Halleck  and 
Drake,  and  his  discussions  of  poetry  were  more  significant  than  some  of 
his  slashing  attacks  at  this  time  on  mediocre  fiction.  In  January,  1837, 
he  published  his  review  of  Bryant's  Poems,  in  which  he  realized  the  need 
of  liberty  in  the  time  interval  between  stresses  of  a  verse,  but  he  failed 
to  see  the  basic  historic  cause  of  that  liberty.  His  understanding  and 
appreciation  of  Bryant's  nature  poetry  was  discriminating,  but  he  erred 
in  praising  Bryant  for  choosing  the  English  rather  than  the  Italian  form 
of  sonnet.  This  choice  resulted  from  Poe's  impatience  with  the  limits 
imposed  by  strict  rules  of  stanzaic  structure,  which  he  had  brilliantly 
defied  in  "To  Helen"  and  "Israfel." 

Poe's  criticism  of  fiction  reached  a  higher  level  when  he  contrasted 
Dickens  and  Bulwer  shortly  after  he  became  the  editor  of  Graham's 
Magazine,  in  1841.  Bulwer  was  a  popular  idol,  but  Poe's  contemporary 
judgment  has  become  the  verdict  of  time:  "The  art  of  Mr.  Dickens, 
although  elaborate  and  great,  seems  only  a  happy  modification  of  Nature 
.  . .  Mr.  Bulwer,  through  Art,  has  almost  created  a  genius.  Mr.  Dickens, 
through  genius,  has  perfected  a  standard  from  which  Art  itself  will  derive 
its  essence,  its  rules." 

This  critique  upon  The  Old  Curiosity  Shop  was  written  before  Bleak 
House,  David  Copperfield  or  Great  Expectations.  Another  evidence  of 
Poe's  keen  critical  sense  is  seen  in  his  critique  of  Macaulay's  Critical  and 
Miscellaneous  Essays,  in  June,  1841. 

Macaulay  has  obtained  a  reputation  which,  although  deservedly  great,  is  yet 
in  a  remarkable  measure  undeserved.  The  few  who  regard  him  merely  as  a 
terse,  forcible,  and  logical  writer,  full  of  thought,  and  abounding  in  original 
views— often  sagacious  and  never  otherwise  than  admirably  expressed— appear 
to  us  precisely  in  the  right.  The  many  who  look  upon  him  as  not  only  all 
this,  but  as  a  comprehensive  and  profound  thinker,  little  prone  to  error,  err 
essentially  themselves.  The  source  of  the  general  mistake  lies  in  a  very  singular 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  389 

consideration,— yet  in  one  upon  which  we  do  not  remember  ever  to  have 
heard  a  word  of  comment.  We  allude  to  a  tendency  in  the  public  mind  towards 
logic  for  logic's  sake— a  liability  to  confound  the  vehicle  with  the  conveyed 
—an  aptitude  to  be  so  dazzled  by  the  luminousness  with  which  an  idea  is  set 
forth  as  to  mistake  it  for  the  luminousness  of  the  idea  itself.  The  error  is  one 
exactly  analogous  with  that  which  leads  the  immature  poet  to  think  himself 
sublime  wherever  he  is  obscure,  because  obscurity  is  a  source  of  the  sublime- 
thus  confounding  obscurity  of  expression  with  the  expression  of  obscurity.  In 
the  case  of  Macaulay— and  we  may  say,  en  passant,  of  our  own  Channing— 
we  assent  to  what  he  says,  too  often  because  we  so  very  clearly  understand 
what  it  is  that  he  intends  to  say.  Comprehending  vividly  the  points  and  the 
sequence  of  his  argument,  we  fancy  that  we  are  concurring  in  the  argument 
itself. 

In  "The  Quacks  of  Helicon,"  a  review  of  a  satiric  poem  by  Lambert 
Wilmer,  Poe  returned  to  his  attack  on  the  methods  of  criticism  then  in 
vogue.10  Poe  was  evidently  feeling  the  effects  of  his  earlier  destructive 
criticism  of  Theodore  S.  Fay's  Norman  Leslie,  and  he  charged  that 
American  criticism  was  made  up  largely  of  puffery  by  periodicals  of 
unworthy  writing  for  financial  return  in  advertising.  While  Poe  exag- 
gerated the  evils  to  a  certain  degree,  what  he  said  was  in  general  correct, 
and  although  he  felt  sharply  the  stings  of  those  he  criticized,  he  remained 
independent. 

In  his  Exordium,  written  as  a  preface  to  the  new  volume  of  Graham's 
in  January,  1842,  Poe  objected  to  the  undue  emphasis  upon  "a  national 
literature"  "as  if  any  true  literature  could  be  national— as  if  the  world  at 
large  were  not  the  only  proper  stage  for  the  literary  histrio." 

In  this  plea  for  universality  in  art,  he  anticipated  Longfellow  and 
Lowell.  Poe  also  discussed  the  nature  of  criticism,  objecting  to  the  gener- 
alities of  certain  of  the  magazine  reviews.  He  demanded  more  analytic 
criticism,  and  less  mere  theorizing  by  the  anonymous  reviewer.  But  in 
his  endeavor  to  keep  criticism  from  becoming  vague  in  purpose,  he  failed 
to  realize  that  in  his  own  criticism,  he  often  spent  too  much  time  with 
grammatical  errors  and  that  the  general  principles  or  definitions  he 
evolved  will  remain  his  most  significant  contributions. 

Two  pieces  of  constructive  criticism  of  a  high  quality  appeared  just 
before  he  left  the  editorial  chair  of  Graham's.  In  the  March  issue,  in  a 
review  of  Longfellow's  Ballads  and  Other  Poems,11  he  placed  Longfellow 
and  Lowell  at  the  head  of  the  new  ideal  school  of  poetry.  In  the  April 
number  he  restated  his  theory  of  poetry: 

An  important  condition  of  man's  immortal  nature  is  thus,  plainly,  the  sense 
of  the  Beautiful.  This  it  is  which  ministers  to  his  delight  in  the  manifold  forms 

10  Graham's  Magazine,  Vol.  19  (Aug.  1841),  pp.  90-93. 

11  The  review  of  Longfellow's  Ballads  appeared  in  Vol.  20  (March,  1842),  pp. 
189-190;  (April,  1842),  pp.  248-251. 


39o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  colors  and  sounds  and  sentiments  amid  which  he  exists.  And,  just  as  the 
eyes  of  Amaryllis  are  repeated  in  the  mirror,  or  the  living  lily  in  the  lake,  so 
is  the  mere  record  of  these  forms  and  colors  and  sounds  and  sentiments— so 
is  their  mere  oral  or  written  repetition  a  duplicate  source  of  delight.  But 
this  repetition  is  not  Poesy.  He  who  shall  merely  sing  with  whatever  rapture, 
in  however  harmonious  strains,  or  with  however  vivid  a  truth  of  imitation,  of 
the  sights  and  sounds  which  greet  him  in  common  with  all  mankind— he,  we 
say,  has  yet  failed  to  prove  his  divine  title.  There  is  still  a  longing  unsatisfied, 
which  he  has  been  impotent  to  fulfil.  There  is  still  a  thirst  unquenchable,  which 
to  allay  he  has  shown  us  no  crystal  springs.  This  burning  thirst  belongs  to  the 
immortal  essence  of  man's  nature.  It  is  equally  a  consequence  and  an  indication 
of  his  perennial  life.  It  is  the  desire  of  the  moth  for  the  star.  It  is  not  the  mere 
appreciation  of  the  beauty  before  us.  It  is  a  wild  effort  to  reach  the  beauty 
above.  It  is  a  forethought  of  the  loveliness  to  come.  It  is  a  passion  to  be  satiated 
by  no  sublunary  sights,  or  sounds,  or  sentiments,  and  the  soul  thus  athirst 
strives  to  allay  its  fever  in  futile  efforts  at  creation.  Inspired  with  a  prescient 
ecstasv  of  the  beauty  beyond  the  grave,  it  struggles  by  multiform  novelty  of 
combination  among  the  things  and  thoughts  of  Time,  to  anticipate  some  portion 
of  that  loveliness  whose  very  elements,  perhaps,  appertain  solely  to  Eternity; 
and  the  result  of  such  effort,  on  the  part  of  souls  fittingly  constituted,  is  alone 
what  mankind  have  agreed  to  denominate  Poetry. . . . 

To  recapitulate,  then,  we  would  define  in  brief  the  Poetry  of  words  as  the 
Khymical  Creation  of  Beauty.  Beyond  the  limits  of  Beauty  its  province  does 
not  extend.  Its  sole  arbiter  is  Taste.  With  the  Intellect  or  with  the  Conscience 
it  has  only  collateral  relations.  It  has  no  dependence,  unless  incidentally,  upon 
either  Duty  or  Truth. 

In  this  essay,  Poe  makes  clear  that  what  he  is  objecting  to  is  the  intro- 
duction of  "didacticism"  in  poetry  and  he  defines  the  demands  of  truth, 
for  which  he  expressed  a  deep  reverence.  "To  convey  'the  true',''  he 
continues,  "we  must  be  perspicuous,  precise,  terse.  .  . .  We  must  be  calm, 
unimpassioned,  unexcited— in  a  word,  we  must  be  in  that  peculiar  mood, 
which,  as  nearly  as  possible,  is  the  exact  converse  of  the  poetical." 

In  reviewing  Hawthorne's  Twice  Told  Tales,12  which  he  praised 
highly,  he  defined  the  short  story.  This  definition  has  often  been  reprinted 
but  it  must  be  included  here  as  the  second  of  those  constructive  criticisms 
which  establish  Poe  as  a  critic  of  the  first  rank. 

Were  we  called  upon,  however,  to  designate  that  class  of  composition  which, 
next  to  such  a  poem  as  we  have  suggested,  should  best  fulfil  the  demands  of 
high  genius— should  offer  it  the  most  advantageous  field  of  exertion— we  should 
unhesitatingly  speak  of  the  prose  tale,  as  Mr.  Hawthorne  has  here  exemplified 
it.  We  allude  to  the  short  prose  narrative,  requiring  from  a  half-hour  to  one 
or  two  hours  in  its  perusal 

A  skilful  literary  artist  has  constructed  a  tale.  If  wise,  he  has  not  fashioned 
his    thoughts    to    accommodate    his    incidents;    but    having    conceived,    with 

12  The  review  appeared  in  two  installments  in  Graham's,  Vol.  20  (April,  1842), 
p.  254;  (May),  pp.  298-300. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  391 

deliberate  care,  a  certain  unique  or  single  effect  to  be  wrought  out,  he  then 
invents  such  incidents— he  then  combines  such  events  as  may  best  aid  him  in 
establishing  this  preconceived  effect.  If  his  very  initial  sentence  tend  not  to 
the  out-bringing  of  this  effect,  then  he  has  failed  in  his  first  step.  In  the  whole 
composition  there  should  be  no  word  written,  of  which  the  tendency,  direct 
or  indirect,  is  not  to  the  one  pre-established  design.  And  by  such  means,  with 
such  care  and  skill,  a  picture  is  at  length  painted  which  leaves  in  the  mind  of 
him  who  contemplates  it  with  a  kindred  art,  a  sense  of  the  fullest  satisfaction. 
The  idea  of  the  tale  has  been  presented  unblemished,  because  undisturbed;  and 
this  is  an  end  unattainable  by  the  novel.  Undue  brevity  is  just  as  exceptionable 
here  as  in  the  poem;  but  undue  length  is  yet  more  to  be  avoided. 

Poe  reissued  this  definition  in  a  review  of  Hawthorne's  Mosses  from 
an  Old  Manse  in  Godey's  hadfs  Book,  in  November,  1847,  but  it  belongs 
to  this  point  in  his  career. 

Even  although  Poe  in  1835  had  written  his  drama  of  Politian  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  romantic-idealistic  manner  of  the  time,  Poe's  dramatic 
criticism  marked  an  advance  toward  realism  in  his  opinions,  which  he 
expressed  in  several  articles  in  1845.  He  uses  the  word  "drama'1  rather 
loosely  to  mean  both  the  play  in  print  or  manuscript  and  the  stage  produc- 
tion. In  the  first  of  these  critiques,  he  dealt  with  Fashion,  the  comedy  of 
manners  by  Anna  Cora  Mowatt,  which  was  having  a  successful  run  in 
New  York.  His  first  review  was  made  before  he  saw  the  play  and  his 
rather  severe  strictures  upon  the  plot  were  modified  after  he  had  in  his 
own  words,  "been  to  see  it  every  night  since  its  first  production."  13  Poe 
was  apparently  learning  that  a  play  is  a  compound  of  playwright,  actor 
and  director,  and  he  realized  the  effectiveness  of  Fashion,  which  has  been 
revealed  often  in  the  twentieth  century.  Poe  hailed  the  play  as  a  sign 
of  vitality  in  the  American  drama,  which  he  believed  should  be  a  matter  of 
great  interest  to  Americans.  Indeed,  he  prophesied  that  "when  sculpture 
shall  fail  and  painting  shall  fail,  and  poetry,  and  music— then  and  not  till 
then  may  we  look  for  that  to  sink  into  insignificance." 

Poe  began  in  the  American  Review  in  August,  1845,  what  he  intended 
to  be  a  series  of  papers  surveying  American  drama.  He  announced  that 
he  would  do  this  "without  reference  either  to  the  date  of  the  composition 
or  its  adaptation  for  the  closet  or  the  stage."  That  this  is  hardly  the  best 
way  to  discuss  drama  is  apparent,  and  Poe  had  criticized  quite  com- 
petently the  acting  of  Mrs.  Mowatt  in  her  repertory.14  Poe  defended  his 
position  here  by  objecting  to  what  he  called  "the  overprofound  criticisms 
of  A.  W.  Schlegel,"  concerning  stage  business  and  stage  effect.  His  own 
concern  was  with  the  validity  of  the  plot,  which  suffered  from  complexity 
but  which  may  be  considered  as  of  high  excellence,  when  no  one  of  its 

13  Fashion  began  its  career  on  March  25,  and  Poe  dates  his  second  critique  April 
5.  Mrs.  Mowatt  had  sent  him  a  MS  for  his  judgment.  See  Broadway  Journal  (March 
29  and  April  5,  1845),  PP-  203-205 ;  219-220. 

14  Broadway  Journal,  Vol.  2  (July  19,  26,  Aug.  2),  pp.  29-30;  43;  60. 


392  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

component  parts  shall  be  susceptible  of  removal  without  detriment  to 
the  whole.  The  discussion  is  too  lengthy  and  abstract  for  reproduction 
here  but  the  conclusion  is  worth  quoting;  that  "perfection  of  plot  is  unat- 
tainable in  fact  because  Man  is  the  Constructor.  The  plots  of  God  are 
perfect.  The  Universe  is  a  plot  of  God." 

Poe  first  dealt  with  Tortesa  the  Usurer,  by  Willis,  which  he  had  noticed 
briefly  when  it  was  first  published  and  produced  in  1839.  In  the  American 
Review15  he  related  with  too  much  detail  the  plot  of  Tortesa  and  criti- 
cised Willis  for  improbabilities,  not  always  fairly.  He  objected  to  the 
incident  in  which  the  heroine,  Isabella,  accepts  the  paternal  authority  of 
Tomaso,  when  her  father  has  turned  her  from  the  door.  "No  one,"  he 
says,  "can  be  made  to  believe  that  any  such  stupid  law  as  this  ever  existed 
either  in  Florence  or  Timbuctoo."  This  dogmatic  assumption  of  knowl- 
edge was  always  one  of  Poe's  weaknesses  in  criticism,  for  there  was  such 
a  law.16  Poe  had  praised  Willis  for  recognizing  that  "the  perfection  of 
dramatic,  as  well  as  of  plastic  skill,  is  found  not  in  the  imitation  of  Nature 
but  in  the  artistical  adjustment  and  amplification  of  her  features." 

He  turned  to  The  Spanish  Student  of  Longfellow,  and  here  he  rode 
his  hobby  of  plagiarism  to  excess.  Longfellow  indicated  clearly  in  his 
Introduction  parallels  in  Spanish  drama.17  Poe  unfairly  strips  the  play  of 
any  originality,  and  praises  only  a  few  poetic  passages  before  he  dives 
for  pearls  of  plagiarism.  Poe  did  not  realize  that  such  a  search  for  mere 
verbal  parallels  is  not  criticism.  His  criticisms  of  the  drama  have  not  had 
the  same  effect  as  those  upon  poetry  or  the  short  story,  but  his  plea  for 
more  natural  writing  and  acting,  and  for  a  drama  unhampered  by  mere 
conventional  rules  points  to  a  theatre  of  the  future. 

Poe's  faults  as  a  critic  may  be  seen  clearly  in  his  elaborate  critique  of 
Elizabeth  Barrett's  The  Drama  of  Exile  and  Other  Poeins.18  He  admired 
her  work  and  was  to  dedicate  his  next  volume  of  poetry  to  her.  Yet  he 
combines  in  his  review  extreme  laudation,  such  as  "her  wild  and  magnifi- 
cent genius  . .  .  which  renders  her  book  a  flame,  and  justifies  us  in  calling 
her,  unhesitatingly  the  greatest,  the  most  glorious  of  her  sex;"  with 
carping  criticism  concerning  the  unreality  of  ideal  figures  which  she 
never  intended  to  be  realistic.  "The  Cry  of  the  Children"  is  at  once  "full 
of  a  horror  sublime  in  its  simplicity— of  which  a  far  greater  than  Dante 
might  have  been  proud,"  and  later  "[it]  cannot  be  scanned— we  never 
saw  so  poor  a  specimen  of  verse!"  Miss  Barrett  was  naturally  puzzled  by 
the  review. 

Becoming  one  of  the  editors  of  the  Broadway  Journal  in  February, 
1845,  Poe  carried  over  from  Willis's  Mirror  one  of  the  most  unfortunate 

15  Vol.  2,  pp.  1 17-131. 

16  See  note,  Chapter  26,  concerning  Tortesa. 

17  For  analysis  of  The  Spanish  Student,  see  Chapter  20. 

1H  Broadway  Journal,  Vol.  1    (Jan.  4  and  11,  1845),  pp.  4-8;  17-20. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  393 

controversies  of  his  career.  He  had  reviewed,  in  January,  Longfellow's 
The  Waif,  a  collection  of  the  elder  poet's  favorite  pieces.  Poe  praised 
Longfellow's  introductory  "Proem,"  now  known  as  "The  Day  is 
Done,"  but  insinuated  that  Longfellow  had  omitted  all  American  poets 
who  might  be  supposed  to  interfere  with  his  claims  to  supremacy. 
A  friend  of  Longfellow,  "H.,"  replied,  and  an  exchange  of  articles  be- 
tween Charles  F.  Briggs  and  Poe,  dealing  with  supposed  plagiarism  by 
Longfellow  and  others,  was  probably  inspired  by  their  desire  to  advertise 
their  respective  journals.  These  are  negligible,  but  unfortunately  a  cor- 
respondent, "Outis,"  sent  to  the  Mirror  a  long  counterattack  upon  Poe, 
charging  him  with  plagiarism.  Poe  printed  in  the  Broadway  Journal  five 
critical  articles  in  reply  to  "Outis,"  which  represent  him  almost  at  his 
worst.  Contradictions  and  misrepresentations  jostle  banalities  and  straw 
men,  culminating  in  an  elaborate  comparison  of  The  Spanish  Student  and 
Politian,  claiming  plagiarism  on  Longfellow's  part.19  Longfellow,  with 
his  customary  dignity,  took  no  notice  of  these  charges,  having  already 
disproved  one  of  them,  that  he  had  represented  Motherwell's  ballad  of 
"Bonnie  George  Campbell"  as  his  own.  Even  worse  than  the  literary 
criticisms  were  Poe's  personal  vulgarities  in  speaking  of  Longfellow.  The 
result  of  this  "Longfellow  war"  was  disastrous  to  Poe;  it  alienated  Lowell 
and  other  friends  of  Longfellow,  and  it  hurt  his  position  as  a  fair-minded 
and  competent  critic.  Indeed,  it  would  have  been  better  for  his  reputation 
if  he  had  refrained  from  criticism  which  introduced  the  personal  element. 
This  was  shown  in  the  series  of  papers  known  as  "The  Literati  of  New 
York  City,"  which  began  in  Godey's  Magazine,  in  May,  1846,  and  con- 
tinued until  November.  So  great  was  the  demand  that  Godey  reprinted 
the  May  article,  and  also  announced  the  receipt  of  many  letters  of  protest, 
but  he  refused  to  be  intimidated.  Today  the  comments  with  a  few  excep- 
tions seem  quite  justified.  Poe,  himself,  acknowledged  that  they  had  been 
written  in  haste,  and  a  large  number  of  the  thirty-eight  authors  are  now 
forgotten.  The  picture  of  Mrs.  Mowatt  is  admirable  and  the  women  are 
usually  treated  with  gallantry.  Next  to  that  of  Mrs.  Mowatt,  the  best 
accounts  are  those  of  Halleck,  Willis,  Catherine  Sedgwick,  Lydia  Child, 
Caroline  Kirkland  and  Christopher  Cranch.  The  paper  on  Thomas  Dunn 
English  was  unfair  and  contemptuous,  and  led  to  a  vicious  reply  by 
English,  which  resulted  in  a  libel  suit,  instituted  by  Poe,  which  he  won 
but  which  did  him  harm. 

If  Poe  had  completed  his  projected  book,  Literary  America:  Some 
Honest  Opinions  about  our  Autorial  Merits  and  Demerits  with  Occasional 
Words  of  Personality,  which  exists  in  a  few  fragments  of  manuscript,20 

19  Griswold  printed,  in  his  edition  of  Poe's  works,  these  articles  under  the  heading, 
"Longfellow  and  Other  Plagiarists,"  a  title  which  Poe  had  not  used. 

20  Huntington  Library.  There  is  a  title  page  and  sketches  of  Richard  Adams  Locke, 
Thomas  Dunn  English,  and  Christopher  P.  Cranch. 


394  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

it  would  have  consisted  apparently  of  sketches  of  individual  writers, 
based  upon  the  "Literati."  It  is  fortunate  for  his  reputation  as  a  critic  that 
he  did  not  publish  such  a  volume.  Aside  from  the  fact  that  this  is  not 
the  wav  to  write  a  critical  account  of  literature,  Poe  descended  to  worse 
destructive  treatment  of  English,  whom  he  called  "Thomas  Dunn  Brown." 
Unfortunately  Griswold  substituted  this  latter  form  in  his  edition  of 
Poe's  works. 

It  must  always  be  remembered  in  judging  Poe's  criticisms  that  he  was 
constantly  changing  them,  either  in  form  or  in  tone,  and  he  is  entitled  to 
be  judged  by  the  form  in  which  he  actually  published  them  for  the  last 
time. 

Poe's  "Philosophy  of  Composition,"  first  printed  in  Graham's  Magazine 
for  April,  1 846,  has  been  variously  interpreted  as  a  serious  piece  of  critical 
analysis  or  as  a  deliberate  hoax  or  as  a  tour  de  force.  It  purports  to  be  a 
detailed  account  of  the  way  in  which  he  wrote  "The  Raven."  It  is  quite 
in  keeping  with  Poe's  theories  of  construction,  that  a  poem  should  be 
short;  that  the  poet  should  have  in  mind  at  all  times  the  effect  of  his  poem; 
that  this  effect  should  make  a  universal  appeal;  and  that  "Beauty  is  the 
sole  legitimate  province  of  the  poem."  These  principles  had  been  stated 
by  Poe  more  than  once.  He  qualified  his  earlier  rejection  of  Truth  and 
Passion  to  permit  them  to  aid  the  general  effect,  as  do  discords  in  music, 
by  contrast.  But  Beauty  must  still  set  the  tone  and  therefore  sadness,  the 
tone  of  its  highest  manifestation,  was  selected.  If  Poe  had  been  proceed- 
ing in  strict  logical  sequence,  "with  the  precision  and  rigid  consequence 
of  a  mathematical  problem,"  as  he  says  he  did,  the  next  step  would  of 
course  have  led  him  to  the  cause  of  the  sadness.  But  he  interjects  a  discus- 
sion of  the  reasons  for  selecting  a  refrain,  that  of  its  universal  appeal,  and 
the  choice  of  the  sonorous  vowel  "o,"  which  leads  to  "Nevermore"  as  the 
best  refrain.  Since  he  used  the  refrain  in  his  poem  "Lenore,"  and  the  vari- 
ant of  "Nevermore,"  "No  more,"  in  the  "Sonnet  to  Zante"  and  "The 
Haunted  Palace,"  it  has  seemed  to  many  critics  that  the  word  came  to 
him  spontaneously  and  not  by  such  a  process  of  reasoning.  The  idea  that 
"Nevermore"  must  be  pronounced  by  some  nonreasoning  being,  which 
leads  to  the  choice  of  the  Raven,  has  a  delightfully  logical  sound,  but 
again  he  had  suggested  in  his  review  of  Barnaby  Rudge  that  Dickens  had 
not  made  full  use  of  the  symbolical  association  of  Barnaby  and  his  raven. 
The  union  of  Death  and  Beauty  which  finally  leads  to  his  theme,  sorrow 
at  the  death  of  a  beautiful  woman,  was  as  old  as  "Tamerlane,"  his  first 
poem.  The  most  powerful  element  in  the  poem,  the  gradual  building  up 
of  the  effect  of  "Nevermore,"  from  the  reply  to  an  obvious  questioning, 
to  the  sixteenth  stanza,  with  its  torturing  answer,  to  the  despairing  cry 
of  a  lover,  may  well  have  come  as  Poe  indicates,  and  so  may  the  insight 
which  made  him  write  this  dramatic  stanza  first.  Poe  may  not  have  thought 
out  his  steps  so  carefully  as  he  indicates  but  they  were  all  implicit  in  his 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  395 

earlier  thinking.  It  is  only  the  order  in  which  they  are  placed  in  "The 
Philosophy  of  Composition"  that  is  open  to  question. 

Poe  interrupted  his  main  course  of  critical  interpretation  of  "The 
Raven"  to  discuss  the  versification,  speaking  of  "octameter  acatalectic" 
and  other  classical  verses,  which  do  not  occur  in  English.  It  is  curious 
that  one  of  the  most  consummate  artists  in  verse  should  make  such  errors 
when  he  discusses  principles  of  versification.  His  "Notes  upon  English 
Verse"  in  the  Pioneer  in  1843  was  expanded  into  "The  Rationale  of 
Verse"  in  The  Southern  Literary  Messenger  in  1848.  Poe  wrote  in  ignor- 
ance of  the  history  of  English  versification,  which  has  been  based  upon 
accent  ever  since  the  beginning  of  Old  English  literature,  and  proceeded 
to  build  up  an  elaborate  system  founded  upon  the  principle  that  "in  a 
line,  every  long  syllable  must  of  its  own  accord  occupy  in  its  utterance, 
or  must  be  made  to  occupy,  precisely  the  time  demanded  for  two  short 
syllables."  Any  such  mathematical  rule  made  his  further  contribution  of 
little  value.  Of  course,  he  shared  his  ignorance  with  all  writers  on  versifi- 
cation at  that  time,  for  the  researches  of  Sievers  and  Schipper  had  not 
yet  established  the  accentual  basis  of  English  verse.  He  criticized  Coleridge 
sharply  for  leading  him  in  the  right  direction  by  what  Poe  describes  as 
"his  nonsensical  system  of  what  he  calls  'scanning  by  accents.'  "  If  Poe 
had  thrown  away  his  theories  about  "bastard  trochees"  and  his  elaborate 
scheme  of  notation,  which  fortunately  no  one  has  followed,  and  had 
realized  that  quantitative  counting  of  syllables  leads  nowhere,  he  might 
have  contributed  some  helpful  ideas.  He  should  have  realized  that  in 
English  verse,  there  are  a  number  of  accented  elements,  preferably  four, 
arranged  at  fairly  equal  time  intervals  in  a  line;  that  liberties  may  be  taken 
as  to  the  number  of  the  unstressed  elements;  and  that  the  rhythm  is  either 
rising  or  falling,  depending  upon  whether  the  unstressed  elements  precede 
or  follow  the  accented  elements  to  which  they  belong  rhetorically  or 
etymologically.  Curiously  enough,  he  almost  saw  these  principles.  He 
quotes  lines  from  "Al  Aaraaf," 

When  first  the  phantom's  course  was  found  to  be 
Headlong  hitherward  o'er  the  starry  sea. 

as  a  permissible  instance  of  substituting  "trochaic"  feet  for  "iambic"  but 
he  failed  to  see  that  it  was  not  a  substitution  at  all  but  a  perfectly  natural 
use  of  a  falling  measure  to  imitate  the  sense.  He  recognized  that  one  meter 
could  be  changed  to  another  in  succeeding  lines  and  that  French  verse 
"is  without  accentuation  and  consequently  •without  verse"  He  saw  that 
there  were  "natural  feet"  in  English  verse,  and  realized  that  "emphasis  can 
make  any  syllable  as  long  as  desired"  but  he  did  not  pursue  these  truths 
to  their  logical  conclusions.  Yet  in  his  practice  he  fortunately  did  not 
follow  his  own  theories,  but  created  through  the  employment  of  those 
elements  of  variety  from  a  preconceived  and  artificial  standard  of  versifi- 


396  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

cation,  the  wonderful  harmony  which  has  made  English  verse  the  greatest 
in  the  world. 

The  last  and  in  many  respects  the  finest  of  his  major  critical  essays  was 
not  published  until  after  his  death.21  He  prepared  for  a  lecture  in  1848 
"The  Poetic  Principle,11  his  final  affirmation  of  his  belief  in  the  qualities 
which  make  poetry  the  finest  of  the  arts.  He  repeats  some  of  his  earlier 
statements,  and  illustrates  his  principles  by  well-chosen  selections  from 
American  and  British  poetry.  What  makes  this  essay  of  such  significance 
is  his  dignity  of  tone.  The  temptation  to  be  destructive  has  been  over- 
come. He  begins  his  selections  with  Longfellow's  "Proem"  to  the  Waif 
and  it  is  a  pity  that  Longfellow  could  not  have  heard  the  final  word  of 
his  great  rival.  In  the  peroration  of  this  article,  Poe's  true  self  as  well  as 
his  poetic  creed  are  revealed: 

We  shall  reach,  however,  more  immediately  a  distinct  conception  of  what 
the  true  Poetry  is,  by  mere  reference  to  a  few  of  the  simple  elements  which 
induce  in  the  Poet  himself  the  true  poetical  effect.  He  recognizes  the  ambrosia 
which  nourishes  his  soul  in  the  bright  orbs  that  shine  in  Heaven— in  the  volutes 
of  the  flower— in  the  clustering  of  low  shrubberies— in  the  waving  of  the  grain- 
fields— in  the  slanting  of  tall  eastern  trees— in  the  blue  distance  of  mountains— 
in  the  grouping  of  clouds— in  the  twinkling  of  half-hidden  brooks— in  the 
gleaming  of  silver  rivers— in  the  repose  of  sequestered  lakes— in  the  star- 
mirroring  depths  of  lonely  wells.  He  perceives  it  in  the  songs  of  birds— in  the 
harp  of  Aeolus— in  the  sighing  of  the  night-wind— in  the  repining  voice  of  the 
forest— in  the  surf  that  complains  to  the  shore— in  the  fresh  breath  of  the  woods 
—in  the  scent  of  the  violet— in  the  voluptuous  perfume  of  the  hyacinth— in  the 
suggestive  odour  that  comes  to  him  at  eventide  from  far-distant  undiscovered 
islands,  over  dim  oceans,  illimitable  and  unexplored.  He  owns  it  in  all  noble 
thoughts— in  all  unworldly  motives— in  all  holy  impulses— in  all  chivalrous, 
generous,  and  self-sacrificing  deeds.  He  feels  it  in  the  beauty  of  woman— in 
the  grace  of  her  step— in  the  lustre  of  her  eye— in  the  melody  of  her  voice- 
in  her  soft  laughter,  in  her  sigh— in  the  harmony  of  the  rustling  of  her  robes. 
He  deeply  feels  it  in  her  winning  endearments— in  her  burning  enthusiasms— 
in  her  gentle  charities— in  her  meek  and  devotional  endurances— but  above 
all— ah,  far  above  all,  he  kneels  to  it— he  worships  it  in  the  faith,  in  the  purity, 
in  the  strength,  in  the  altogether  divine  majesty— of  her  love. 

Poe's  criticism  bulks  larger  than  his  poetry  and  tales  combined,  but 
much  of  it  consists  of  brief  reviews  or  of  the  "Marginalia,"  short  or  long 
paragraphs,  of  the  familiar  or  expository  type,  often  repetitions  of  earlier 
reviews.  There  are  seventeen  installments  of  the  "Marginalia"  but  ob- 
viously they  cannot  be  treated  here. 

It  is  true  that  Poe  frittered  away  his  time  in  destructive  attacks  upon 
unimportant  writers,  and  indulged  his  dislike  of  plagiarism  to  excess.  But 
his  major  criticisms  were  fair  and  he  was  often  kinder,  especially  to 

21  Home  Journal,  No.  36  (Aug.  31,  1850),  p.  1. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  397 

women  writers,  than  they  deserved.  How  much  of  this  gallantry  was  due 
to  obligations,  which  Mrs.  Clemm  had  incurred,  we  shall  never  know.  He 
was  discriminating  in  recognizing  merit  in  the  early  work  of  writers  who 
afterward  became  famous.  Poe's  constructive  criticisms,  especially  his 
definitions  of  poetry  and  of  the  short  story,  cannot  be  disregarded  by 
any  one  discussing  these  subjects,  and  his  critical  theories  concerning  the 
unity  of  structure,  harmony  of  tone,  and  the  true  elements  of  beauty  re- 
main of  permanent  value.  How  they  became  the  starting  point  of  later 
criticism  may  be  seen  in  Henry  Timrod's  "A  Theory  of  Poetry,"  22  for 
even  while  Timrod  differs  from  him  in  certain  conclusions,  he  has  to  take 
Poe's  definition  of  Poetry  as  a  premise.  Poe's  constructive  or  analytic 
criticisms  might  have  found  earlier  recognition  had  they  been  incorpo- 
rated in  collected  volumes  of  essays  during  his  lifetime. 

In  France,  the  influence  of  his  criticism  was  also  apparent.  French 
critics  analyzed  his  "Philosophy  of  Composition"  and  his  definition  of  the 
short  story.  His  doctrine  of  unity  of  impression  and  totality  of  effect  ap- 
pealed to  the  theories  of  Baudelaire  and  others.  As  a  modern  critic  has 
put  it,  romanticism,  the  scientific  spirit  and  the  bourgeois  doctrine  of  good 
sense  made  him  the  center  of  a  veritable  battle.23 

He  left  American  criticism  richer  not  only  by  his  writings  but  also 
by  his  courage  and  independence.  From  the  editorial  chairs  of  the  leading 
journals  of  the  South  and  of  the  Middle  States,  he  raised  the  standard  of 
good  taste  and  high  accomplishment  for  the  widest  audience  of  readers 
of  periodicals  of  his  own  time. 


Emerson  was  an  intuitive,  an  analytic  and,  at  times,  a  constructive  critic. 
He  is  seen  at  his  best  in  general  statements  and  brilliant  passages  and 
phrases.  Some  of  his  most  striking  critical  phrases  occur  in  his  poems, 
such  as  "The  Rhodora"  or  "Merlin,"  and  have  already  been  discussed.24 
Indeed,  while  no  one  volume  of  his  essays  is  devoted  entirely  to  literary 
criticism,  his  works  are,  in  their  total  achievement,  a  criticism  of  life.  He 
did  not  turn  from  living  to  books.  To  him,  as  to  Poe,  Lowell  or  any 
creative  critic,  reading  is  a  part  of  a  man's  life,  just  as  walking  or  eating. 
He  read  in  his  study,  although  it  is  always  a  question  just  how  many  of 
the  books  on  his  lists  of  reading  he  actually  finished,  and  how  often  he 
put  the  volume  aside,  since  it  had  served  his  purpose  in  stimulating  his 
own  thought.  This  habit  gave  us  some  of  his  most  significant  contribu- 
tions, but  it  makes  the  specific  assignment  of  his  critical  ideas  to  their 
sources  in  earlier  writings  almost  an  impossibility.   Here  is  where   his 

22  Not  published  during  Timrod's  lifetime.  First  printed  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly 
in  Sept.  1905,  pp.  313-326. 

23  Leon  Lemonnier,  Edgar  Foe  et  la  Critique  Frangaise  de  184$  a  187  s  (i9z8)- 
Especially  Part  1,  Chaps.  1  and  3;  Part  3,  Chap.  4. 

24  See  Chapter  17. 


398  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Journals  are  of  such  value,  because  in  them  we  often  see  the  criticism  in 
its  transition  from  Plato  or  Aristotle  or  Goethe  into  the  later  published 
product  which  is  largely  or  entirely  Emerson's  own. 

Emerson's  criticism  was  usually  expressed  first  in  his  lectures;  next,  in 
periodical  publications;  and,  finally,  in  his  collected  volumes.  Except  in 
the  Dial,  he  rarely  starts  with  the  review  of  a  single  book.  Even  then  it 
soon  becomes  more  general,  fortunately,  for  his  lasting  criticism  lies  in  his 
generalizations  and  his  weakest  as  well  as  his  most  brilliant  ideas  are  found 
among  his  brief  comments  upon  individuals. 

In  his  first  published  volume,  Nature,  he  began  in  the  sections  "Beauty" 
and  "Language"  to  relate  the  glory  of  Nature  and  the  verbal  expression 
of  the  inner  mental  stimulus  caused  by  it.  Emerson  defined  criticism  in 
his  "Art  and  Criticism"  (1859),  as  an  art  "when  it  does  not  stop  at  the 
word  of  the  poet  but  looks  at  the  order  of  his  thoughts  and  the  essential 
quality  of  his  mind."  Words  to  him  are  signs  of  natural  facts  and 
every  natural  fact  is  a  symbol  of  some  spiritual  fact.  Therefore  his 
standard  of  judgment  concerning  literary  art  lay  in  the  taste  and  spon- 
taneity of  the  creative  writer.  "The  corruption  of  man  is  followed  by  the 
corruption  of  language."  25 . . .  "a  paper  currency  is  employed  when  there 
is  no  bullion  in  the  vaults."  26 

In  "The  American  Scholar"  he  establishes  more  definite  standards  con- 
cerning the  worth  of  books.  To  him,  books  meant  the  past  and,  while 
the  theory  of  books  is  noble,  and  the  earliest  scholar  saw  life  and  made  of 
it  truth,  Emerson  believed  that  each  age  must  write  its  own  books  for 
the  next  generation.  Books  "are  for  nothing  but  to  inspire."  27  They  "are 
for  the  scholar's  idle  times."  28  Emerson  qualified  this  statement  at  once, 
however,  by  excepting  the  authors  who  are  timeless  and  he  selects  for 
examples  Chaucer,  Marvell  and  Dryden,  as  perennially  modern. 

Emerson  stressed  the  necessity  of  creative  reading  as  well  as  creative 
writing,  and  of  selection— even  in  Plato  and  Shakespeare— of  "only  the 
authentic  utterances  of  the  oracle."  29  This  principle  comes  back  to  his 
emphasis  upon  independence,  for  how  can  anyone  be  sure  he  knows  the 
authentic  utterance?  He  pronounced  activity  as  the  greatest  goal,  and 
therefore,  if  reading  great  books  stimulated  a  young  man  to  action,  it 
became  an  integral  portion  of  his  life.  "Scholar"  in  this  essay  includes 
more  than  a  critic;  he  is  the  representative  of  the  culture  of  the  period 
and  the  race.  But  some  of  the  best  sentences  apply  to  the  independent 
critics.  "Let  him  not  quit  his  belief  that  a  popgun  is  a  popgun,  though 
the  ancient  and  honorable  of  the   earth   affirm  it  to   be  the  crack  of 

25  Works,  Centenary  Edition,  ed.  Edward  W.  Emerson  (1903-4),  Vol.  1,  p.  29. 
References  are  to  this  edition. 

26  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  30. 

27  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  89. 

28  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  91. 

29  Works.  Vol.  1,  p.  pj- 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  399 

doom."  30  In  the  hopeless  confusion  of  critical  standards  today,  such  a 
sentence  is  like  a  tonic.  Emerson  praised,  too,  the  treatment  in  literature 
of  common  things.  "I  embrace  the  common,  I  explore  and  sit  at  the  feet 
of  the  familiar,  the  low."  31  In  this  sentence  one  source  of  Whitman's 
theory  is  clear.  Emerson  compared  the  writing  of  Goldsmith,  Burns  and 
Cowper  and,  "in  a  newer  time  of  Goethe,  Wordsworth  and  Carlyle," 
with  Pope,  Johnson  and  Gibbon,  to  the  advantage  of  the  later  writers, 
who  dealt  with  more  familiar  things.  The  appeal  at  the  close  of  "The 
American  Scholar"  for  us  to  shake  off  the  shackles  of  foreign  opinion 
seems  at  first  to  be  a  rejection  of  universality  in  literature,  but  it  is  really 
an  appeal  for  Americans  to  "be  inspired  by  the  Divine  Soul  which  also 
inspires  all  men."  In  his  essay  on  "Art"  (1841),32  he  insists  that  "in  the 
sculptures  of  the  Greeks,  in  the  masonry  of  the  Romans,  and  in  the 
pictures  of  the  Tuscan  and  Venetian  masters,  the  highest  charm  is  the 
universal  language  they  speak."  In  his  journals,  Emerson  expressed  him- 
self often  on  the  subject  of  books  and  reading.  As  early  as  1824,  in  an 
eloquent  passage,  he  reveals  his  determination  to  read  only  the  best 
books.33 

In  1837  he  notes  that  "the  office  of  reading  is  wholly  subordinate."  By 
knowing  the  philosophers  and  other  great  men,  says  he,  "I  get  thereby 
a  vocabulary  for  my  ideas.  I  get  no  ideas."  34  After  speaking  of  the  time- 
less joys  of  literature,  he  adds: 

And  yet  literature,  too,  this  magical  man-provoking  talisman,  is  in  some  sort 
a  creature  of  time.  It  is  begotten  by  Time  on  the  Soul.  And  one  day  we  shall 
forget  this  primer.  But  how  obviously  initial  it  is  to  the  writer.  It  is  only  his 
priming.  The  books  of  the  nations,  the  universal  books,  are  long  ago  forgotten 
of  him  who  spake  them.  We  must  learn  to  judge  books  by  absolute  standards. 
Criticism,  too,  must  be  transcendental.35 

In  1842  he  gives  a  list  of  thirty-two  books  to  read,  from  Homer  to 
Goethe.36  It  is  significant  that  he  mentions  only  names,  not  particular 
works,  for  to  him  the  man  was  always  more  important  than  the  book. 
The  greatest  number  belong  to  Greece,  with  stress  upon  the  seventeenth 
century  in  England.  A  larger  list,  with  more  definite  classifications,  was 
given  in  1847.37  Those  who  appear  in  both  lists  are:  Plato,  Plutarch, 
Chaucer,  Dante,  Rabelais,  Montaigne,  Shakespeare,  Jonson,  Ford,  Beau- 
mont and  Fletcher,   Bacon,   Milton  and   Goethe.   The   only  American 

30  Works,  Vol.  i,  p.  102. 

31  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  in. 

32  Works,  Vol.  2,  p.  359. 

33  Journals,  ed.  E.  W.  Emerson  and  W.  E.  Forbes  (1909-14),  Vol.  2,  pp.  5-6. 
References  are  to  this  edition. 

3  4  Journals,  Vol.  4,  p.  256. 

35  Journals,  Vol.  5,  pp.  282-283. 

36  Journals,  Vol.  6,  p.  282. 

37  Journals,  Vol.  7,  pp.  328-329. 


4oo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

mentioned  is  in  relation  to  a  specific  book,  Bartram's  Travels,  but  it  is 
listed  among  his  favorites. 

In  1858,  Emerson  in  his  essay,  "Books,"  3S  regretted  that  there  was  no 
professor  of  books  in  the  colleges  and  tried  to  present  advice  on  read- 
ing: "1.  Never  read  any  book  that  is  not  a  year  old.  2.  Never  read  any 
but  famed  books.  3.  Never  read  any  but  what  you  like." 

In  his  published  advice  on  books  he  naturally  supported  his  choices 
with  reasons.  Homer,  Herodotus,  Aeschylus,  Plato,  Plutarch  and  the 
Platonists  lead,  and  Emerson  frankly  says  he  rarely  reads  Greek,  Latin, 
German,  Italian  or  French  books  in  the  original,  believing  that  what  is 
really  best  in  any  book  is  translatable.  In  other  words,  style  is  not  the 
most  important  element.  The  essay  would  have  been  a  useful  guide,  but 
the  omissions  are  most  significant.  He  traces  the  course  of  history  at  first 
by  its  literary  monuments,  but  he  soon  omits  centuries  of  literary  works, 
which  he  fills  with  Gibbon,  with  Hallam's  Middle  Ages  for  Church 
History,  and  Robertson's  Life  of  the  Emperor  Charles  V.  He  apparently 
had  not  read  Prescott's  histories  and,  indeed,  the  author  of  "The  Ameri- 
can Scholar"  mentions  only  one  American  writer,  Benjamin  Franklin! 
Biographies  and  autobiographies,  he  feels,  are  the  best  guides  to  history. 
In  short,  he  did  not  keep  up  with  his  own  times,  which  he  believed  were 
"sterile  in  genius"  and  his  list  of  novels  is  perfunctory.  For  the  same 
reason  the  lengthy  lists  39  of  selections  he  expected  to  read  in  1869,  in  a 
course  of  ten  weeks  in  Boston,  do  not  reveal  clearly  what  he  did  present 
to  the  audience,  but  Plato,  Goethe,  Bacon  and  Wordsworth  certainly 
survived  the  necessary  excisions. 

The  papers  which  Emerson  wrote  for  the  Dial,  from  1840  to  1844, 
represent  a  phase  of  his  criticism  that  is  exploratory  in  its  search  for  the 
significant  in  what  he  called  "modern."  His  article,  "Thoughts  on  Modern 
Literature," 40  treats  Shelley  and  Wordsworth  briefly,  dismissing  the 
former  as  "a  poetic  mind"  but  "never  a  poet,"  but  soon  resolves  itself  into 
a  penetrating  analysis  of  Goethe.  He  calls  attention  to  the  over-subjectiv- 
ity of  the  age:  "The  great  always  introduce  us  to  facts;  small  men  in- 
troduce us  always  to  themselves."  Goethe  was  infected  by  this  vice,  he 
thought.  In  "Europe  and  European  Books,"  he  seemed  to  modify  his 
protest  in  "The  American  Scholar":  "At  present  we  have  our  culture 
from  Europe  and  Europeans.  Let  us  be  content  and  thankful  for  these 
good  gifts  for  awhile  yet."  41 

His  appreciation  of  Wordsworth  varied.  In  the  Dial,  in  his  essay 
"Thoughts  on  Modern  Literature,"  he  rightly  objects  to  the  dullness  of 

38  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  1  (Jan.  1858),  pp.  343-353.  Reprinted  in  Society  and 
Solitude,  pp.  187-221. 

39  journals,  Vol.  10,  pp.  282-285. 

40  Dial,  Vol.  1   (Oct.  1840),  pp.  137-158. 

41  Dial,  Vol.  3  (April,  1843),  p.  512.  The  Introduction,  including  this  quotation, 
was  not  reprinted  in  the  Centenary  Edition. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  401 

portions  of  "The  Excursion":  "Here  was  no  poem  but  here  was  poetry." 
Yet  in  "Europe  and  European  Books"  he  decided  that  Wordsworth  "is 
a  master  of  the  English  Language  and  his  poems  evince  a  power  of  dic- 
tion that  is  no  more  rivaled  by  his  contemporaries  than  is  his  poetic 
insight."  He  praised  Wordsworth  because  he  forsook  the  standards  of 
London  and  Paris  "and  the  books  read  there  and  the  aims  pursued,  and 
wrote  Helvellyn  and  Windermere  and  the  dim  spirits  which  these  haunts 
harbored." 

Emerson  carried  into  his  criticism  his  ability  at  distinctions.  Landor,  he 
remarks  in  his  essay  in  the  Dial,42  is  "a  man  full  of  thoughts,  but  not,  like 
Coleridge,  a  man  of  ideas."  In  his  criticism  of  Carlyle's  Past  and  Present 43 
there  is  a  fine  analysis  of  the  reason  that  it  requires  courage  for  a  man  of 
letters  to  handle  the  contemporary  practical  questions:  "There  is  a  waste 
of  strength  in  gathering  unripe  fruits."  Emerson  saw  even  in  1843  that 
Carlyle's  pessimism  made  him  "a  sick  giant,"  and  his  habitual  exaggera- 
tion of  tone  wearied  while  it  stimulated.  Emerson's  opinion  of  Carlyle, 
written  largely  in  1848  but  not  published  until  1881,  is  more  truly  a 
criticism  of  his  friend,  but  it  is  as  a  talker  rather  than  a  writer.  They  were 
better  friends  while  the  Atlantic  was  between  them. 

Emerson  was  a  disillusioned  optimist  and  realized  that  "the  world  al- 
ways had  the  same  bankrupt  look,  to  foregoing  ages  as  to  us."  That  is 
the  reason  he  preferred  to  write  about  the  ancients,  because  distance  has 
destroyed  what  was  trivial.  Consequently  he  remains,  much  more  than 
Carlyle,  an  inspiration  for  today.  That  he  did  not  always  follow  his  own 
advice  is  obvious,  but  it  took  a  great  issue  like  Slavery  to  rouse  him  to 
contemporary  criticism.  As  he  says  in  his  Dial  essay  on  "The  Tragic": 
"Time  is  a  Consoler,  Nature  will  not  sit  still  but  proportions  her  de- 
fence to  the  assault."  He  would  have  agreed  with  Weir  Mitchell  that 
"if  memory  were  perfect,  life  would  be  unendurable." 

To  Emerson  poetry  was  the  natural  subject  for  criticism.  The  Journals 
have  many  references,  beginning  in  1820.  In  1822  44  he  found  the  source 
of  poetry  "in  the  pleasure  of  finding  out  a  connection  between  a  material 
image  and  a  moral  sentiment."  Emerson  lectured  upon  "The  Poet"  in  the 
1841-42  course,  and  some  of  this  material  appears  in  his  essay,  "The 
Poet"  in  the  Second  Series  ( 1 844) .  The  Universe  has  three  children,  who 
stand  for  the  love  of  truth,  the  love  of  good,  and  the  love  of  beauty.  They 
are  equal.  The  poet  is  the  sayer,  and  represents  Beauty,  which  is  the 
creator  of  the  Universe.  The  poet  is  the  one  who  receives  the  impulses 
from  Nature  and  instantly  responds  to  them,  while  others  receive  them 
but  are  too  feeble  to  become  artists.  Emerson  quotes  Spenser  in  the  well- 
known: 

42  Vol.  2  (Oct.  1841),  pp.  262-271.  Reprinted  in  Works,  Vol.  12,  pp.  337~349- 

43  Dial,  Vol.  4  (July,  1843),  pp.  96-102. 

44  Journals,  Vol.  1,  p.  105. 


4o2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

For  of  the   soul,   the   body   form   doth  take, 
For  soul  is  form,  and  doth  the  body  make. 

Nothing  so  well  indicated  Emerson's  departure  from  his  Puritan  an- 
cestral thought  as  his  recognition  of  the  symbol,  the  sign  by  which 
"Being  passes  into  Appearance  and  Unity  into  Variety."  He  recognized 
its  potency  even  in  ordinary  life,  and  remarked  how  "an  old  rag  of 
bunting,  blowing  in  the  wind  on  a  fort  at  the  ends  of  the  earth,  shall  make 
the  blood  tingle."45  "It  does  not  need  that  a  poem  should  be  long."46 
"Every  word  was  once  a  poem."  As  usual,  Emerson  went  to  extremes  in 
his  praise  of  the  poet  who,  inflamed  by  his  thought,  dared  to  dream,  even 
to  apparent  insanity,  for  whom  he  would  give  "all  the  arguments  and 
histories  and  criticism."  Once  again  he  is  on  much  the  same  ground  as 
Poe,  who  was  constantly  using  a  symbol.  But  Emerson  soon  tires  of  the 
"tedious  use  of  that  symbol"  and  the  hereditary  love  of  abstract  thinking 
revives.  As  late  as  1875,  however,  in  "Poetry  and  Imagination"  he  re- 
turned to  his  earlier  position.  "I  had  rather  have  a  good  symbol  of  my 
thought  or  a  good  analogy,  than  the  suffrage  of  Kant  or  Plato."  This 
essay,  at  times,  uses  the  very  language  of  1842,  for  Emerson  had  begun 
to  repeat  himself.  But  he  probably  remembered  his  own  constant  use  of 
a  symbolic  figure  to  illustrate  a  general  thought.  His  recognition  that 
"Metre  begins  with  pulse-beat"  shows  that  he  probably  had  read  Holmes' 
essay  on  the  "Physiology  of  Versification"  published  in  the  same  year. 

There  is  comparatively  little  formal  criticism  in  his  later  essays.  In 
"Quotation  and  Originality,"  4T  however,  he  returned  to  the  considera- 
tion of  books.  "In  the  highest  civilization  the  book  is  still  the  highest  de- 
light." The  apostle  of  modern  ideas  paid  tribute  to  the  past,  to  the  im- 
mense debt  of  one  writer  to  another  until  there  seemed  little  originality 
left.  At  the  same  time  Emerson  rightly  decries  the  painful  source  hunting 
for  "derivatives."  "We  are  as  much  informed  of  a  writer's  genius  by 
what  he  selects  as  by  what  he  originates."  The  essay  was,  in  reality,  an 
implicit  defence  of  his  own  methods;  of  his  ability  to  improve  what  he 
took;  and  to  take  where  he  pleased.  Emerson  was  still  hoping  for  a  poet 
who  would  sing  of  the  American  institutions  and  scenery  of  "the  western 
clearing,  Oregon  and  Texas,"  forgetting  or  not  knowing,  that  Bryant  had 
written  "The  Prairies."  But  he  acknowledges  that  he  is  "not  wise  enough 
for  a  national  criticism,"  and  his  eloquent  close  brings  him  back  to  the 
ideal,  which  becomes  to  the  true  poet,  real. 

Emerson's  discussion  of  drama  dates  also  from  his  early  Journals.48  He 
is  concerned  with  it  as  a  phase  of  poetry,  for  he  knew  little  of  dramatic 
structure  or  even  of  the  history  of  the  stage.  He  thought  that  the  "French 

45  Works,  Vol.  3,  p.  16. 

46  journals,  Vol.  5,  p.  441. 

47  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  106  (April,  1868),  pp.  543-557. 
*«  Vol.  1  (1820),  pp.  54-59. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  403 

Mysteries"  had  left  only  a  name  and  that  the  Elizabethan  drama  was  a 
"sudden  and  unaccountable"  phenomenon.  He  was  reading  the  Greek 
dramatists  and  the  Elizabethans  as  early  as  1820  to  1822,  but  his  interest 
remained  in  the  philosophy  of  dramatic  power  and  motives,  as  in  the 
essav  on  "The  Tragic."  Yet  he  was  not  above  making  dogmatic  state- 
ments in  his  analysis  of  Goethe,  "Of  dramatic  power,  the  rarest  talent  in 
literature,  he  has  very  little."  Cooper  and  Hawthorne  are  also  denied  this 
power. 

Emerson  is  weakest  perhaps  in  his  criticism  of  fiction.  In  speaking  of 
Bulwer  in  his  essay  on  "Europe  and  European  Books,"  he  tells  us  why: 
"Mr.  Bulwer's  recent  stories  have  given  us,  who  do  not  read  novels,  oc- 
casion to  think  of  this  department  of  literature."  He  did,  however,  recog- 
nize the  financial  basis  of  English  fiction:  "The  hero  is  greatly  in  want  of 
a  fortune  or  a  wife,  usually  of  both  and  the  business  of  the  piece  is  to 
provide  him  suitably."  Emerson  was  naturally  irritated  by  the  manner  in 
which  British  novelists  indicate  the  income  of  the  characters  as  soon  as 
they  are  introduced,  and  shape  their  careers  on  this  basis.  But  while  he 
really  admired  Scott,  he  felt  that  he  must  take  a  moral  attitude  toward 
romance,  and  the  fine  art  of  Jane  Austen  completely  escaped  him.  It  was 
Emerson's  failure  to  understand  fiction  that  led  him  to  undervalue  Haw- 
thorne. He  writes  in  his  Journal: 40  "Nathaniel  Hawthorne's  reputation 
as  a  writer  is  a  very  pleasing  fact,  because  his  writing  is  not  good  for 
anything,  and  this  is  a  tribute  to  the  man."  Emerson  was  not  happy  in 
his  criticism  of  his  contemporary  American  writers.  His  judgment  of 
Bryant  in  the  Journal  of  1836  that  his  poems  were  "chaste,  faultless, 
beautiful  but  uncharacterized,"  showed  some  penetration  but  a  misunder- 
standing of  what  Bryant  tried  to  accomplish.  His  tribute  to  Bryant  on 
the  latter's  seventieth  birthday  was  far  better: 

This  man  has  contrived  to  levy  on  all  American  Nature  and  subsidized  every 
solitary  forest  and  Monument  Mountain  in  Berkshire  or  the  Katskills,  every 
waterfowl,  every  gentian  and  goldenrod,  the  prairies,  the  gardens  of  the  desert, 
the  song  of  the  stars,  the  evening  wind,— has  bribed  every  one  of  these  to  speak 
for  him,  so  that  there  is  scarcely  a  feature  of  day  and  night  in  the  country 
which  does  not  recall  the  name  of  Bryant. 

This,  of  course,  is  eulogy7,  rather  than  criticism  and  so  is  his  tribute  to 
Thoreau,5"  the  only  contemporary  American  to  whom  he  devoted  a 
published  tribute  of  any  length.  Emerson  preferred  apparently  not  to 
write  about  his  friends  for  publication  until  they  were  dead  or  nearing 
the  close  of  their  careers.  He  welcomed  Ellery  Channing's  poems  while 
they  were  still  in  manuscript,  but  this  article  in  the  Dial 51  consists  largely 

49  Vol.  6  (1842),  p.  240. 

50  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  10  (Aug.  1862),  pp.  239-249.  Reprinted  in  Lectures  and 
Biographical  Sketches. 

51  Vol.  1   (Oct.  1840),  pp.  220-232. 


404  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  selections.  The  essay  on  Thoreau  is  devoted  almost  entirely  to  the 
man;  there  is  little  criticism  of  his  work.  His  poetry  is  treated  briefly 
and  Emerson,  while  praising  "Smoke"  and  "Sympathy,"  noted  that 
Thoreau's  verses  were  often  "rude  and  defective."  There  are  several 
sentences  chosen  from  his  unpublished  manuscripts  but  no  analysis  of  his 
prose.52  Emerson  was  limited  in  his  critical  judgments  of  Americans  to 
New  England.  He  could  dismiss  Poe,  late  in  his  life,  with  the  phrase  "the 
jingle  man."  His  references  to  Irving  and  Cooper  are  casual. 

Emerson  is  seen  at  his  critical  best  in  his  essay  on  "Shakspeare  (sic)', 
or,  The  Poet,"53  in  Representative  Men  (1850).  It  is  a  biography  of 
Shakespeare's  spiritual  creations  rather  than  of  his  personal  life.  Beginning 
with  a  picture  of  the  times  in  its  demand  for  dramatic  entertainment, 
Emerson  takes  occasion  to  excuse  in  advance  the  use  by  Shakespeare  of 
older  plays.  He  then  discusses  Henry  VIII  in  a  paragraph  which  illustrates 
both  his  acute  ear  for  verse  rhythm  and  his  historical  limitations.  "In 
Henry  VIII  I  think  I  see  plainly  the  cropping  out  of  the  original  rock  on 
which  his  own  finer  stratum  was  laid."  It  did  not  occur  to  Emerson  that 
Shakespeare  might  have  had  a  younger  collaborator,  Fletcher,  who  built 
upon  his  "rock."  Then  Emerson  proceeds: 

The  first  play  was  written  by  a  superior,  thoughtful  man,  with  a  vicious  ear. 
I  can  mark  his  lines,  and  know  well  their  cadence.  See  Wolsey's  soliloquy,  and 
the  following  scene  with  Cromwell,  where  instead  of  the  metre  of  Shakspeare, 
whose  secret  is  that  the  thought  constructs  the  tune,  so  that  reading  for  the 
sense  will  best  bring  out  the  rhythm,— here  the  lines  are  constructed  on  a 
given  tune,  and  the  verse  has  even  a  trace  of  pulpit  eloquence. 

Emerson  selected  unerringly  two  of  the  most  famous  passages  in  Henry 
VIII,  the  one  beginning 

Cromwell,  I  charge  thee,  fling  away  ambition! 
and 

Farewell!  a  long  farewell  to  all  my  greatness! 

which  have  the  now  well-known  characteristics  of  Fletcher.  Why  did 
Emerson  call  him  mistakenly  the  man  with  the  "vicious  ear"?  Emerson's 
instinctive  recognition  that  English  verse  did  not  follow  any  preconceived 
metrical  pattern,  or  "given  tune,"  as  he  calls  it,  made  him  object  to  the 
end-stopped  line  of  Fletcher,  where  the  sense  tends  to  fit  into  the  frame 
of  the  verse  unit,  as  in  French  verse.  In  other  words  he  leaped  intuitively 
across  the  scholarship  of  1850  54  to  achieve  results  afterwards  confirmed 
by  it. 

52  Sec  Chapter  16,  for  some  of  Emerson's  comments  on  Thoreau's  peculiarities. 

53  Given  first  as  a  lecture  at  Exeter  Hall,  London,  June,  1848. 

54  J.  Spedding's  article  "On  the  several  shares  of  Shakespeare  and  Fletcher  in 
Henry  VIII,"  Gentleman's  Magazine  (1850),  is  two  years  later  than  Emerson's 
lecture.  The  author's  colleague,  M.  W.  Black,  tells  him  Spedding's  article  is  the  first 
scholarly  discussion  of  the  shares  of  Shakespeare  and  Fletcher. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  405 

Almost  immediately  after  this  example  of  critical  insight,  Emerson  re- 
veals his  carelessness  in  one  of  his  sweeping  generalizations  concerning 
Chaucer's  borrowings.  Nearly  every  item  is  an  error,  and  Emerson  at- 
tributes as  sources  of  Chaucer's  writings  materials  which  men  who  lived 
after  him  were  to  furnish.55 

It  is  not  for  Emerson's  account  of  Shakespearian  biography  or  criticism, 
now  superseded,  that  the  essay  should  be  read.  It  is  for  passages  like  this: 

So  far  from  Shakspeare's  being  the  least  known,  he  is  the  one  person,  in  all 
modern  history,  known  to  us.  What  point  of  morals,  of  manners,  of  economy, 
of  philosophy,  of  religion,  of  taste,  of  the  conduct  of  life,  has  he  not  settled? 
What  mystery  has  he  not  signified  his  knowledge  of?  What  office,  or  function, 
or  district  of  man's  work,  has  he  not  remembered?  What  king  has  he  not 
taught  state,  as  Talma  taught  Napoleon?  What  maiden  has  not  found  him 
finer  than  her  delicacy?  What  lover  has  he  not  outloved?  What  sage  has  he 
not  outseen?  What  gentleman  has  he  not  instructed  in  the  rudeness  of  his 
behavior? 

He  wrote  the  airs  for  all  our  modern  music:  he  wrote  the  text  of  modern 
life;  the  text  of  manners:  he  drew  the  man  of  England  and  Europe;  the  father 
of  the  man  in  America;  he  drew  the  man,  and  described  the  day,  and  what 
is  done  in  it:  he  read  the  hearts  of  men  and  women,  their  probity,  and  their 
second  thought  and  wiles;  the  wiles  of  innocence,  and  the  transitions  by  which 
virtues  and  vices  slide  into  their  contraries:  he  could  divide  the  mother's  part 
from  the  father's  part  in  the  face  of  the  child,  or  draw  the  fine  demarcations 
of  freedom  and  of  fate:  he  knew  the  laws  of  repression  which  make  the 
police  of  nature:  and  all  the  sweets  and  all  the  terrors  of  human  lot  lay  in  his 
mind  as  truly  but  as  softly  as  the  landscape  lies  on  the  eye. 

It  was  for  Shakespeare  the  poet  of  insight,  not  the  playwright,  that 
Emerson  was  enthusiastic.  He  went  to  see  a  distinguished  actor  play 
Hamlet  and  remembered  only  Hamlet's  question  to  the  Ghost.  That  he 
lost  much  by  not  appreciating  the  dramatic  quality  of  the  plays  is  ob- 
vious, and  his  conclusion  that  Shakespeare  "was  master  of  the  revels  to 
mankind"  and  "led  an  obscure  and  profane  life,  using  his  genius  for  the 
public  amusement,"  indicates  that  the  limitations  of  the  Puritan  still 
hedged  Emerson  in.  But  his  recognition  of  the  genius  of  Shakespeare  in 
the  creation  of  character  outweighs  these  limitations. 

In  the  essay  on  "Plato;  or,  The  Philosopher"  he  is  more  concerned  with 
the  philosophy  than  with  the  writer.  He  read  Plato  "in  translation,  un- 
happily" 56  but  he  constantly  returns  to  him;  and  he  has  caught  the  es- 
sence of  the  Greek  spirit,  that  of  the  beauty  that  "mounts  and  mounts": 

55  These  errors  have  long  been  known.  See  T.  R.  Lounsbury's  Studies  in  Chaucer 
(1892),  Vol.  3,  pp.  394-395.  Emerson  probably  took  the  errors  at  second  hand  from 
Warton's  History  of  English  Poetry,  cf.  B.  J.  Whiting,  "Emerson,  Chaucer  and 
Thomas  Warton,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  17  (March,  1945),  pp.  75-78. 

56  Letter  to  S.  G.  Ward,  April  30,  1845.  Letters,  ed.  Rusk,  Vol.  3,  p.  283. 


4o6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

All  his  thought  has  this  ascension;  in  Phaedrus,  teaching  that  beauty  is  the 
most  lovely  of  all  things,  exciting  hilarity  and  shedding  desire  and  confidence 
through  the  universe  wherever  it  enters,  and  it  enters  in  some  degree  into  all 
things:— but  that  there  is  another,  which  is  as  much  more  beautiful  than 
beauty  as  beauty  is  than  chaos;  namely,  wisdom,  which  our  wonderful  organ 
of  sight  cannot  reach  unto,  but  which,  could  it  be  seen,  would  ravish  us  with 
its  perfect  reality.57 

In  the  Banquet  Emerson  feels  that  Plato  is  teaching  that  life  is  the 
symbol  of  the  passion  of  the  soul  "for  that  immense  lake  of  beauty  it 
exists  to  seek/'  The  essay  on  "Love,"  in  the  First  Series,  reflects  this 
Platonic  idea  and  it  becomes  the  keynote  of  the  poems  "Initial,  Daemonic 
and  Celestial  Love."  This  Platonic  conception  is  revealed  in  Emerson's 
cardinal  principle  of  the  Primal  A4ind,  and  therefore,  permeates  much  of 
his  work.  To  Emerson,  Plato  had  become  by  absorption  the  epitome  of 
the  Greek  learning  of  the  time  and  then,  by  travelling  to  Italy,  Egypt 
and  the  East,  had  become  the  representative  of  philosophy  in  its  breadth 
and  essence.  It  is  in  this  essay  that  Emerson  draws  a  distinction  between 
the  philosophy  of  the  Hindus,  tending  to  unity,  and  the  philosophy  of 
the  Western  world,  tending  to  variety.  "If  the  East  loved  infinity,  the 
West  delighted  in  boundaries."  Plato  united  these  two  philosophies  and 
"a  balanced  soul  was  born."  Enthusiastic  as  he  was,  Emerson  could  criti- 
cize Plato  because,  first,  he  is  literary  and  therefore  has  not  the  vital  au- 
thority that  less  learned  prophets  have  possessed;  second,  he  has  no  system: 
"He  attempted  a  theory  of  the  universe,  and  his  theory  is,  not  complete 
or  self-evident.  One  man  thinks  he  means  this,  and  another  that;  he  has 
said  one  thing  in  one  place,  and  the  reverse  of  it  in  another  place."  These, 
of  course,  are  criticisms  that  may  be  levelled  at  Emerson's  own  philosophy. 
"The  Natural  History  of  Intellect"  is  not  systematic,  and  he  is  dis- 
tinctly "literary."  But  the  philosophers  who  have  not  established  systems 
have  often  been  the  most  influential.  Although  he  dwells  much  more  on 
Plato  than  on  Aristotle,  Emerson  did  understand  from  the  Poetics  the 
importance  of  organic  plot,  which  is  the  basis  of  great  design,  and  he 
believes  in  the  poet's  use  of  tradition  to  keep  his  art  within  bounds.58 

The  essay  on  "Goethe:  or,  The  Writer"  is  somewhat  disappointing 
because  it  is  in  no  sense  complete.  After  Emerson's  discussion  of  Mephis- 
topheles  as  "pure  intellect,  applied, ...  to  the  service  of  the  senses"  he 
dismisses  any  design  of  entering  "into  any  analysis  of"  Goethe's  "numer- 
ous works"  and  chooses  Wilhelm  Meister  as  typical.  He  is  wavering  in 
his  appraisement  of  this  novel.  He  thinks  that  "no  book  of  this  century 
can  compare  with  it  in  its  delicious  sweetness,"  and  yet  he  feels  that  it 
has  a  conclusion  "lame  and  immoral."  Finally,  in  a  rather  hopeless  way  he 

57  Works,  Vol.  4,  p.  69. 

58  Sec  J.  P.  Pritchard,  "Aristotle's  Influence  on  American  Criticism,"  Proc.  Amer. 
Phil.  Assoc,  Vol.  67  (1936),  pp.  341-362. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  407 

decides  that  "we  must  even  let  it  go  its  way  and  be  willing  to  get  what 
good  from  it  we  can,"  which  is  hardly  criticism.  His  analysis  of  Wilhelm 
Meister  in  his  earlier  Dial  paper  is  more  penetrating.  But  even  here,  to 
praise  Goethe  as  an  apostle  of  realism  on  the  basis  of  this  romance  with 
its  worship  of  rank,  its  type  characters  and  its  quaint  idea  of  rewriting 
Hamlet,  is  to  mistake  the  nature  of  realism. 

In  the  essay  on  "Adontaigne:  or,  The  Skeptic"  59  there  is  little  criticism 
of  his  Essays  as  literature,  but  Emerson  is  correct  in  saying  that  "His 
writing  has  no  enthusiasms,  no  aspiration;  contented,  self-respecting  and 
keeping  the  middle  of  the  road.  There  is  but  one  exception,— in  his  love 
for  Socrates."  Emerson  liked  Montaigne  because  he  found  in  the  Essays 
ideas  similar  to  his  own.  "Sure  I  am,  we  can  never  be  wise"  G0  or  "It  is 
now  twenty  years,  I  never  spent  one  whole  hour  together  on  a  book"  G1 
have  an  Emersonian  ring.  Montaigne  is  really  a  starting  point  in  Emerson's 
effort  to  reconcile  scepticism  with  morality.  Emerson  uses  Montaigne  to 
analyze  the  mistakes  of  those  who  are  concerned  entirely  with  ideas  and 
those  who  are  materialists,  and  proposes  the  sceptic  as  the  proper  mean 
between  them.  He  insists  that  a  sceptic  is  not  an  unbeliever  and  certainly 
Montaigne  was  not  one.  It  is  difficult,  indeed,  to  accept  Emerson's  classifi- 
cation of  Montaigne  as  a  sceptic,  for  the  Frenchman  accepted  miracles  if 
the  authority  for  them  was  adequate,02  and  solemnly  retells  some  stories, 
wonderful  even  for  those  days. 

Emerson's  section  of  English  Traits  (1856),  which  deals  with  "Litera- 
ture," is  an  indictment  of  that  nation  for  the  lack  of  ideality  in  the  poetry 
of  the  mid-century  and  for  the  triumph  of  materialism.  It  becomes  a 
lament  for  the  decline  from  the  influence  of  Bacon  to  that  of  Locke,  and 
the  rise  of  the  empirical  science  of  utility:  "We  want  the  miraculous; 
the  beauty,  which  we  can  manufacture  at  no  mill— can  give  no  account 
of."  Wordsworth  and  Tennyson  seem  to  him  the  only  voices  of  greatness, 
each  with  limitations.  It  is  general  criticism;  a  fair  survey,  but  limited  by 
Emerson's  lack  of  understanding  of  one  of  the  great  ages  of  English 
fiction,  which  he  dismisses  with  a  nod.  In  his  later  criticism  Emerson 
maintained  his  earlier  tone,  even  if  his  ideas  were  not  always  new.  "The 
Man  of  Letters"  63  is  a  companion  piece  to  The  American  Scholar,  a 
bugle  call  for  the  scholar  to  maintain  his  dignity  in  a  materialistic  age. 

"Historic  Notes  of  Life  and  Letters  in  Massachusetts"  G4  reviews  the 

59  For  a  detailed  analysis  of  his  growth  of  knowledge  of  Montaigne,  see  Emerson's 
Montaigne  (1941),  by  C.  W.  Young. 

60  Montaigne's  Essays,  Book  1,  Chap.  24;  Vol.  1,  p.  156  in  Florio's  Translation. 
Following  references  to  same  edition. 

61  Book  3,  Chap.  8,  p.  219. 

62  Book  1,  Chap.  26,  Vol.  1,  p.  225. 

63  Delivered  at  Dartmouth  College  in  1863.  Printed  in  Lectures  and  Biographical 
Sketches. 

64  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  52  (Oct.  1883),  pp.  529-543.  Reprinted  in  Lectures  and 
Biographical  Sketches. 


408  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

progress  of  ideas  during  his  own  period.  He  pays  tribute  to  Channing's 
"Milton"  and  "Napoleon"  as  pioneer  essays  in  this  country's  criticism, 
being  unaware  of  Bryant's  earlier  work.  This  essay  is  a  penetrating  study 
of  the  transcendental  philosophy  of  the  forties,  but  it  makes  no  attempt 
to  evaluate  the  creative  writings.  The  later  essays  on  individuals  are 
truly  "biographical  sketches."  In  "Plutarch"  65  he  builds  up  a  fine  picture 
of  the  man,  through  his  effect  upon  his  centuries  of  readers.  "He  had 
that  universal  sympathy  with  genius  which  makes  its  victories  his  own." 
He  read  Plutarch  in  translation,  as  have  most  of  those  who  remember 
with  Emerson  the  book  which  makes  the  history  of  Greece  and  Rome  a 
living  thing.  It  is  a  eulogy,  quite  as  much  as  a  criticism,  of  the  man  who 
"had  not  lost  his  wonder."  The  brief  addresses  upon  Burns  and  Scott  are 
also  eulogies. 

o 

Emerson's  contribution  to  the  development  of  American  criticism  lies 
in  his  clear  vision,  his  independence,  even  of  his  own  earlier  judgments, 
and  his  appreciation  of  the  unity  and  the  universality  of  literary  art.  That 
universality,  colored  as  it  was  by  his  New  England  origin,  manifested 
itself  through  his  continued  and  rather  wide  interest  in  the  allied  arts.66 
His  limitations  were  his  inexact  knowledge  of  some  historic  periods,  his 
carelessness  in  quotation,  and  his  intolerance,  at  times,  of  what  he  disliked. 
But  his  criticism  can  be  read  today  for  its  keen  insight  into  human  char- 
acter and  for  its  brilliant  epigrams,  even  if  the  writer  he  is  judging  may 
be  himself  forgotten. 


Lowell's  criticism  consists  in  general  of  essays  upon  individual  authors, 
which,  by  comparisons  and  diversions,  become  pictures  of  the  literature 
of  the  time.  They  are  usually  analytic,  sometimes  merely  descriptive, 
quite  often  constructive.  Only  once,  in  the  essay  on  Percival,  is  he  de- 
liberately destructive.  In  his  essay  on  Dryden  he  states  that  the  office  of 
a  critic  is  to  recall  the  total  impression  of  an  author.  Lowell  consequently 
took  plenty  of  room,  in  those  days  when  literary  reviews  existed  which 
permitted  critics  sufficient  space  to  do  justice  to  their  subjects.  Having 
read  thoroughly  and  assimilated  the  works  of  an  author,  he  was  able  to 
make  generalizations,  often  brilliant  and  stimulating,  especially  when  they 
include  comparisons  such  as  that  between  Dante  and  Shakespeare  in 
"Shakespeare  Once  More,"  or  Browning,  Tennyson  and  Clough  in 
"Swinburne's  Tragedies."  Lowell  preserved  in  his  collected  edition, 
twenty-nine  critical  essays,  besides  a  few  brief  addresses.  Twenty-two 
were  devoted  to  the  greater  British  poets  from  Chaucer  to  Swinburne, 
with  one  essay  on  Carlyle  and  one  on  Fielding.  To  represent  Continental 
literature,    he   chose   Dante,   Lessing,   Rousseau   and    Cervantes.   Among 

6r>  Published  originally  as  an  introduction  to  Plutarch's  Morals   (1871). 
66  See  Chapter  28. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  409 

Americans  he  preserved  only  "Emerson,  the  Lecturer";  Thoreau  and 
Percival,  as  individuals;  and  gave  one  brief  address  on  "Our  Literature." 
One  of  his  most  penetrating  critical  sketches,  that  on  Poe,  written  for 
Graham's  Magazine,  in  1845,  he  omitted.  He  did  not  include  either  the 
essays  on  the  Elizabethan  dramatists  in  the  Boston  Miscellany  or  The 
Pioneer,  or  the  essay  on  "Song  Writing."  G7  This  early  essay  was,  how- 
ever, characteristic  of  Lowell's  critical  method.  It  is  a  broad  survey  of 
song-writing  in  English  up  to  the  Caroline  Period,  developing  his  theory 
that  the  finest  songs  spring  from  "the  democracy  of  nature  and  truth," 
animated  by  human  love,  or  "next  below  it,  of  nature"  with  their  ex- 
pression simple  and  unstained  by  artifice.  His  illustrations  are  well  chosen 
to  establish  his  eloquent  climax,  that  he  who  has  given  a  nation  a  truer 
conception  of  beauty  has  done  more  for  its  happiness  and  to  secure  its 
freedom,  than  if  he  had  doubled  its  defences  or  its  revenue. 

He  could  hardly  have  believed  that  he  had  done  justice  to  his  fellow 
countrymen  in  The  Fable  for  Critics  in  1848,  but  he  probably  felt  too 
near  them  to  make  a  final  estimate.  A  Fable  for  Critics  was  a  unique 
experiment,  with  even  its  title  page  in  verse,  and  is  interesting  now  mainly 
on  account  of  the  picture  of  our  literature  in  1848  and  its  inevitable 
comparison  with  Poe's  "Literati."  Lowell's  selection  was  more  discriminat- 
ing; there  are  very  few  of  his  list  who  are  now  totally  forgotten,  while 
oblivion  has  covered  many  of  the  "Literati."  On  the  other  hand,  Poe  de- 
liberately confined  himself  to  New  York  and  its  vicinity  while  Lowell 
in  implication  was  discussing  the  writers  of  the  entire  country.  Yet  New 
England  is  the  only  section  covered  with  care.  Simms  is  not  mentioned, 
while  Cooper  and  Poe  hardly  receive  adequate  treatment.  The  oft  quoted 
lines: 

Here  comes  Poe  with  his  raven,  like  Barnaby  Rudge, 
Three  fifths  of  him  genius  and  two  fifths  sheer  fudge, 

were  as  brilliant  as  they  were  one-sided.  In  fact,  there  is  a  wide  discrep- 
ancy in  the  justice  of  Lowell's  criticism.  Some  of  the  pictures  are  colored 
by  personal  feeling,  like  those  of  Bryant  and  Margaret  Fuller,  who  had 
reviewed  Lowell's  work  unfavorably.  The  best  portraits  are  those  of 
Emerson,  Whittier,  Hawthorne,  Holmes  and  Irving  and  the  most  dev- 
astating: 

Here  Miranda  came  up,  and  said;  "Phoebus,  you  know 
That  the  Infinite  Soul  has  its  infinite  woe, 
As  /  ought  to  know  having  lived  cheek  by  jowl 
Since  the  day  I  was  born,  with  the  infinite  Soul. 

But  there  was  obviously  no  room  for  any  complete  or  judicial  criticism 

in  the  verses.  Yet  A  Fable  has  its  place  in  Lowell's  development  as  a 

67  Pioneer,  February,  1843,  pp.  73-79.  Found  conveniently  in  reprint,  ed.  Sculley 
Bradley  (1947). 


4io  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

critic.  It  represents  his  youthful  energy,  his  remarkable  coinage  of  phrases, 
and  his  sheer  joy  in  expressing  his  own  low  opinion  of  critics.  The  best 
portion  of  it  consists  in  his  advice  to  his  own  countrymen  to  cease  im- 
itating England  and  his  withering  contempt  for  the  custom  of  calling 
writers  the  "American  Disraelis,  Bulwers  and  Scotts."  It  is  significant  that 
of  the  twenty-nine  individual  authors  he  selected  for  the  major  essays, 
twenty-three  are  poets  and  only  six  prose  authors.  To  Lowell,  as  to 
Emerson,  literature  was  primarily  poetry.  Sometimes  the  criticisms  were 
in  the  form  of  a  review  of  a  particular  book,  sometimes  they  were  more 
definitely  literary  essays  upon  the  author  he  had  selected  for  a  lecture. 
As  he  said  in  his  Prefatory  Note  to  the  first  volume  of  the  Literary  Es- 
says in  the  Riverside  Edition,  "They  were  meant  to  be  suggestive  of 
certain  broader  principles  of  criticism,  based  on  the  comparative  study 
of  literature  in  its  large  meaning,  rather  than  methodically  pedagogic,  to 
stimulate  rather  than  to  supply  the  place  of  individual  study."  He  con- 
fessed also  that  he  was  by  temperament  impatient  of  detail.  His  criticism 
must  be  judged  therefore  in  terms  of  his  intention,  and  in  recognition  of 
his  statement  that  the  bulk  of  the  material  had  been  written  many  years 
earlier,  "some  of  it  so  long  ago  as  1854." 

One  of  the  main  principles  of  Lowell's  criticism  was  to  judge  literature 
from  its  universal  quality.  In  an  unsigned  review  68  of  Alnwick  Castle 
he  said:  "The  best  and  most  enduring  literature  is  that  which  has  no 
nationality  except  of  the  heart."  One  of  the  most  truly  American  of  our 
writers,  he  continued  to  preach  this  critical  doctrine  throughout  his 
career.  His  review  of  Longfellow's  Kavanagh  69  became  an  essay  on  na- 
tionality and  universality,  in  which  he  amplified  Longfellow's  position 
expressed  in  that  novel.  Lowell's  criticism  of  Kavanagh  is  just;  he  saw  its 
lack  of  plot  and  unity,  but  his  essay  deals  only  slightly  with  the  book;  it 
is  a  point  of  departure  for  his  general  theme.  He  called  attention  to  the 
critical  confusion  which  did  not  distinguish  nationality  from  locality, 
and  satirized  the  insistent  demand  for  a  literature  based  upon  scenery. 
"Chaucer  and  Spenser,"  he  argued,  "are  Normans,  and  their  minds  open 

most  fairly  southward Shakespeare,  thoroughly  English  as  he  is,  has 

chosen  foreign  subjects  for  the  greatest  of  his  dramas,  as  if  to  show  that 
genius  is  cosmopolitan."  "The  English  mind,"  he  continued,  "has  always 
been  characterized  by  an  emigrating  tendency.  Their  most  truly  national 
epic  was  the  colonizing  of  America."  Lowell  established  his  thesis  by 
valid  arguments:  "There  is  a  vast  difference  between  truth  to  nature  and 
truth  to  fact;  an  impassable  gulf  between  genius,  which  deals  only  with 
the  true,  and  that  imitative  faculty  which  patiently  and  exactly  repro- 
duces the  actual."  He  rejected  the  demand  which  would  limit  American 

68  Broadway  journal,  Vol.  1  (May  3,  1845),  p.  282. 

09  "Kavanagh:  A  Tale.  Nationality  in  Literature."  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  69 
(July,  1849),  pp.  196-215. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  411 

imagination  by  geography  and  deprive  us  of  our  rightful  share  in  the 
past  and  the  ideal.  And  he  showed  his  critical  insight  into  the  romantic 
fallacy  of  his  day  by  his  comment:  "The  mistake  of  our  imaginative 
writers  generally  is  that,  though  they  may  take  an  American  subject, 
thev  costume  it  in  a  foreign  or  antique  fashion.  ...  It  is  like  putting  Roman 
drapery  upon  a  statue  of  Washington,  the  absurdity  of  which  does  not 
strike  us  so  forcibly  because  we  are  accustomed  to  it,  but  which  we 
should  recognize  at  once  were  the  same  treatment  applied  to  Franklin. 
The  old  masters  did  exactly  the  reverse  of  this;  they  took  ancient  or 
foreign  subjects,  but  selected  their  models  from  their  own  immediate 
neighborhood."  He  illustrated  this  by  the  characters  of  Shakespeare, 
which  are  human,  not  Roman  or  Grecian.  Lowell  also  put  his  finger  on 
the  more  justifiable  element  in  the  demand  for  a  native  literature  "written 
by  authors  who  use  their  own  eyes  and  ears  and  not  those  of  other 
people."  It  is  a  pity  that  Lowell  did  not  include  this  essay  among  his 
Complete  Works,  for  it  is  sound  constructive  criticism,  which  establishes 
the  great  principle  that  American  writers  may  choose  their  subjects  any- 
where provided  they  retain  the  American  point  of  view.  It  was  soon  to 
be  proved  by  the  superiority  of  those  cantos  of  Hiawatha  which  are 
imaginary  to  those  most  faithful  to  the  sources.  Lowell's  objection  to  a 
standard  of  criticism  which  would  have  imposed  a  limitation  upon  Ameri- 
can authors,  never  demanded  of  any  other  race,  became  a  crusade,  carried 
on  by  his  correspondence,  as  well  as  his  published  articles.  It  is  reflected 
in  a  letter  to  Emerson  in  May,  1854.70  "Fancy  a  contemporaneous  French 
review  of  Chaucer,"  Lowell  wrote,  "and  you  will  see  what  I  mean.  The 
Frenchman  would  have  said  'When  will  these  English  have  a  literature 
of  their  own?'  "  It  was  by  such  striking  comparisons  that  Lowell  showed 
the  absurdity  of  the  parochial  standards  of  criticism. 

The  excellence  of  Lowell's  essay  on  Kavanagh  and  his  brief  reviews 
of  Longfellow's  "Poems  on  Slavery,"  71  The  Courtship  of  Miles  Stand- 
ish,72  and  of  the  Tales  of  a  Wayside  Inn  73  make  us  wish  that  Lowell  had 
written  a  more  unified  and  extended  appraisement  of  Longfellow's 
achievement.  He  defended  the  hexameters  of  Longfellow,  while  acknowl- 
edging his  distrust  of  the  measure,  unless  written  by  a  man  of  genius,  and 
he  found  it  necessary  even  in  1859  to  differ  sharply  with  critics  who  were 
attacking  Longfellow  for  qualities  which  make  him  great. 

The  writer  who  appeals  to  more  peculiar  moods  of  mind,  to  more  complex 
or  more  esoteric  motives  of  emotion,  may  be  a  greater  favorite  with  the  few; 
but  he  whose  verse  is  in  sympathy  with  moods  that  are  human  and  not  personal, 
with  emotions  that  do  not  belong  to  periods  in  the  development  of  individual 

70  New  Letters  of  Lowell,  ed.  M.  A.  deW.  Howe  (1932),  p.  54. 
71Pioneer  (Feb.  1843),  pp.  92-93. 

72  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  3  (Jan.  1859),  pp.  129-13 1. 

73  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  98  (Jan.  1864),  pp.  289-290. 


4i2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

minds,  but  to  all  men  in  all  years,  wins  the  gratitude  and  love  of  whoever  can 
read  the  language  which  he  makes  musical  with  solace  and  aspiration.74 

Among  his  criticisms  of  Americans,  Lowell's  essav  on  Thoreau  75  is  a 
masterpiece  of  analysis  and  is  a  good  corrective  of  the  growth  of  a  cult 
which  fails  to  distinguish  originality  from  peculiarity.  It  begins  with  an 
amusing  picture  of  the  Transcendentalist  eccentricities,  follows  with  a 
discriminating  contrast  between  Carlyle  and  Emerson,  in  which  Lowell 
rightly  called  attention  to  Thoreau's  debt  to  Emerson,  and  proceeds: 

He  seems  to  me  to  have  been  a  man  with  so  high  a  conceit  of  himself  that 
he  accepted  without  questioning,  and  insisted  on  our  accepting,  his  defects 
and  weaknesses  of  character  as  virtues  and  powers  peculiar  to  himself.  Was 
he  indolent,  he  finds  none  of  the  activities  which  attract  or  employ  the  rest 
of  mankind  worthy  of  him.  Was  he  wanting  in  the  qualities  that  make  success, 
it  is  success  that  is  contemptible,  and  not  himself  that  lacks  persistency  and 
purpose.  Was  he  poor,  money  was  an  unmixed  evil.  Did  his  life  seem  a  selfish 
one,  he  condemns  doing  good  as  one  of  the  weakest  of  superstitions.  To  be 
of  use  was  with  him  the  most  killing  bait  of  the  wily  tempter  Uselessness.  He 
had  no  faculty  of  generalization  from  outside  of  himself,  or  at  least  no 
experience  which  would  supply  the  material  of  such,  and  he  makes  his  own 
whim  the  law,  his  own  range  the  horizon  of  the  universe.  He  condemns  a 
world,  the  hollowness  of  whose  satisfactions  he  had  never  had  the  means 
of  testing,  and  we  recognize  Apemantus  behind  the  mask  of  Timon.  He  had 
little  active  imagination;  of  the  receptive  he  had  much.  His  appreciation  is 
of  the  highest  quality;  his  critical  power,  from  want  of  continuity  of  mind, 
very  limited  and  inadequate.76 

Lowell  meets  in  advance  the  excessive  claims  of  Thoreau's  admirers  for 
his  "itch  of  originality,"  and  notes  that  "To  be  misty  is  not  to  be  mystic." 
As  usual  with  Lowell,  he  uses  the  individual  he  is  criticizing  to  state  his 
general  principle: 

This  notion  of  an  absolute  originality,  as  if  one  could  have  a  patent-right  in 
it,  is  an  absurdity.  A  man  cannot  escape  in  thought,  any  more  than  he  can 
in  language,  from  the  past  and  the  present. . . .  Originality  consists  in  power 
of  digesting  and  assimilating  thoughts,  so  that  they  become  part  of  our  life 
and  substance.77 

In  Thoreau,  he  believed,  much  remained  unassimilated: 

The  radical  vice  of  his  theory  of  life  was  that  he  confounded  physical  with 
spiritual  remoteness   from   men.   A  man  is  far  enough  withdrawn  from  his 

7 '4  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  3  (Jan.  1859),  p.  131. 

76  Printed  first  as  a  review  of  Letters  to  Various  Persons,  by  Henry  D.  Thoreau. 
North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  10 1  (Oct.  1865),  pp.  597-608.  There  is  of  course  no  such 
book  by  Thoreau. 

70  My  Study  Windows,  Elmwood  Edition,  pp.  139-140.  Future  references  to  this 
edition. 

77  My  Study  Windows,  p.  144. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  413 

fellows  if  he  keep  himself  clear  of  their  weaknesses.  He  is  not  so  truly  with- 
drawn as  exiled,  if  he  refuse  to  share  in  their  strength.78 

Lowell's  "Emerson  the  Lecturer"  (1861-68)  is  not  primarily  criticism 
but  rather  an  enthusiastic  tribute  to  the  man.  Yet  in  Lowell's  analysis  of 
the  remarkable  effect  of  Emerson,  he  recognizes  that  he  is  essentially  a 
poet  even  when  speaking  prose.  "The  many  cannot  miss  his  meaning,  and 
only  the  few  can  find  it,"  for  "his  diction  is  like  homespun  cloth-of-gold." 
Lowell's  criticisms  of  Whittier  are  also  fair  and  discriminating,  but  less 
important.  In  discussing  Whittier's  poetry  79  of  nature,  he  observes  cor- 
rectly that  "nature  without  an  ideal  background  is  nothing,"  and  gives 
Whittier  credit  for  "that  artistic  memory  which  brings  home  composi- 
tions and  not  catalogues." 

Lowell's  prompt  recognition  of  new  American  writers  who  had  merit 
is  shown  in  his  review  of  Howells'  Venetian  Life  80  and  of  A  Passionate 
Pilgrim,  and  Other  Tales  by  Henry  James,  Jr.81  He  was  in  error  in  speak- 
ing of  Howells  as  coming  from  the  "rough  and  ready  West"  but  he 
recognized  the  cultivated  tone  of  Howells'  poetry  as  well  as  his  prose 
description  of  Venice.  His  recognition  of  the  artistic  purpose  of  James 
was  also  adequate. 

The  Lowell  Institute  Lectures  on  English  Poets,82  given  in  1855,  ne 
never  published  as  such.  They  are  of  great  interest  because  they  represent 
Lowell  at  thirty-six,  already  master  of  the  brilliant  epigram  and  of  sus- 
tained passages  of  critical  insight.  As  he  quotes  "The  Two  Corbies"  in 
the  lecture  on  "The  Ballads,"  he  says  truly,  "If  they  moralize  it  is  always 
by  picture  and  not  by  preachment,"  83  and  he  adds,  "Like  all  true  poetry, 
they  are  not  only  young  themselves,  but  the  renewers  of  youth  in  us."  84 
In  the  lecture  on  "Chaucer"  we  find  quite  a  good  deal  which  he  used 

78  My  Study  Windows,  p.  145. 

79  "Home  Ballads  and  Poems,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  6  (Nov.  i860),  pp.  637-639; 
"In  War  Time,"  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  98  (Jan.  1864),  pp.  290-292;  "Snow- 
bound," North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  102  (April,  1866),  pp.  631-632. 

80  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  103  (Oct.  1866),  pp.  610-613. 

81  The  Nation,  Vol.  20  (June  17,  1875),  p.  425. 

82  As  printed  by  the  Rowfant  Club  in  1897,  in  book  form,  consist  of:  "Definitions," 
"Piers  Ploughman's  Vision,"  "The  Metrical  Romances,"  "The  Ballads,"  "Chaucer," 
"Spenser,"  "Milton,"  "Butler,"  "Pope,"  "Poetic  Diction,"  "Wordsworth,"  and  "The 
Function  of  the  Poet."  Selections  from  them  were  first  printed  by  C.  E.  Norton  in 
the  Century  Magazine,  Vol.  25,  n.  s.,  under  titles  "Humor,  Wit,  Fun  and  Satire," 
(Nov.  1893),  pp.  1 25-131;  "The  Five  Indispensable  Authors  (Homer,  Dante,  Cervantes, 
Goethe,  Shakespere  [sic]),"  (Dec.  1893),  pp.  223-224;  "On  the  Function  and  Prospects 
of  Poetry,"  (Jan.  1894),  pp.  432-439;  "Criticism  and  Culture,"  (Feb.  1894),  pp. 
515-516;  "The  Imagination,"  (March,  1894),  pp.  716-721.  He  also  gives  the  complete 
list  which  checks  with  that  of  the  Rowfant  Club  except  that  the  first  lecture  is 
called  by  him  "Poetry  and  the  Poetic  Sentiment."  For  purposes  of  comparison  with 
Lowell's  later  essays,  the  Lectures,  as  printed  by  the  Rowfant  Club,  have  been  used, 
since  the  entire  series  has  been  represented,  even  if  in  two  cases,  the  Norton  version 
is  more  complete. 

83  Lectures  on  English  Poets,  p.  66. 

84  Lectures,  p.  75. 


4i4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

afterward  in  the  essay  as  published  in  1870.  "A  breath  of  spring  blows 
out  of  the  opening  lines  of  The  Canterbury  Tales  that  seems  to  lift  the 
hair  upon  our  brow."  85  He  recognized  already  that  "Chaucer,  like 
Shakespeare,  invented  almost  nothing"  and  that  "the  poet  who  levied 
his  contributions  upon  Norman,  Italian  and  Latin  writers,  should  yet 
have  become  (with  an  exception)  the  most  truly  English  of  our  poets."  89 
In  the  later  essay  Lowell  analyzed  Chaucer's  sources  more  explicitly, 
especially  in  the  contributions  of  the  Trouveres  and  the  Italians.  His 
scholarship  had  widened  and  deepened  naturally  in  the  interval.  He  had 
learned  to  estimate  the  contribution  of  the  Normans  to  English  literature, 
and  while  he  attributes  the  solidity  and  stamina  of  the  race  to  the  Saxon, 
"who  has  made  the  best  working  institutions  and  the  ugliest  monuments 
among  the  children  of  men,"  87  he  recognized  that  "it  was  through  the 
Normans  that  the  English  mind  and  fancy,  hitherto  provincial  and  un- 
couth, were  first  infused  with  the  lightness,  grace  and  self-confidence  of 
Romance  literature."  88  While  the  lecture  of  1855  and  the  essay  on  Spenser 
of  1875  begin  with  the  same  sentence,  the  similarities  are  not  so  marked, 
because  the  lecture  was  evidently  not  completely  reported.  The  long 
quotation  from  Spenser's  "Muiopotmos"  appears  in  both  places,89  Lowell 
drawing  a  comparison  between  the  butterfly  and  Spenser  himself,  "who 
was  the  pure  sense  of  the  beautiful  put  into  a  human  body  only  that  it 
might  have  the  means  of  communicating  with  men."  90  Lowell's  own 
characteristic  faculty  for  wandering  from  theme  to  theme  made  him 
appreciative  of  the  same  quality  in  Spenser.  He  gives  in  the  later  essay  a 
long  sketch  of  English  literature  between  Chaucer  and  Spenser  before 
he  reaches  the  latter,  and  he  states  once  again  his  doctrine:  "I  confess  I 
have  little  faith  in  that  quality  in  literature  which  is  commonly  called 
nationality— a  kind  of  praise  seldom  given  where  there  is  anything  better 
to  be  said."  91 

Lowell  was  not  always  accurate  in  his  statements  concerning  versifica- 
tion. He  derives  the  Spenserian  stanza  from  the  ottava  rima92  when  it 
really  comes  from  the  "Monk's  Tale  Stanza"  of  Chaucer  by  the  addition 
of  an  Alexandrine.  Ironically,  he  grows  eloquent  in  analyzing  the  effect 
of  changes  in  verse  structure  which  did  not  take  place,  at  least  in  the 
manner  he  indicates.  The  early  lecture  on  Milton  is  also  evidently  in- 
complete. Lowell  already  recognized  the  musical  significance  of  Milton's 
proper  names  and  the  "vistas  of  verse"  in  Paradise  Lost. 

85  Lectures,  p.  80;  cf.  My  Study  Windows,  p.  184. 

86  Lectures,  p.  86. 

87  My  Study  Windows,  p.  212. 

88  My  Study  Windows,  p.  216. 

89  Lectures,  pp.  104-106.  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  2,  pp.  273-275.  All  references  to  the 
latter  are  to  Elmwood  Edition. 

90  Lectures,  p.  104. 

91  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  2,  p.  227. 

92  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  2,  p.  293. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  415 

When  you  read  Paradise  Lost  the  feeling  you  have  is  one  of  vastness.  You  float 
under  a  great  sky  brimmed  with  sunshine,  or  hung  with  constellations;  the 
abyss  of  space  is  around  you;  thunders  mutter  on  the  horizon;  you  hear  the 
mysterious  sigh  of  an  unseen  ocean;  and  if  the  scene  changes,  it  is  with  an 
elemental  movement  like  the  shifting  of  mighty  winds.93 

There  were  fewer  passages  repeated  because  the  later  essay  was  a  review 
of  Masson's  Life  of  Milton  and  his  edition  of  Milton's  works  (1876).  Brief 
as  it  is,  the  earlier  lecture  is  more  readable,  for  there  is  too  much  detailed, 
at  times  destructive,  criticism  of  Masson's  work  in  the  essay  of  1876. 
There  is,  however,  an  interesting  discussion  of  the  principles  upon  which 
the  writing  of  a  biography  should  proceed,  and  the  close  is  eloquent.  In 
the  Milton  essay  he  recognized  that  the  basis  of  English  verse  is  accentual 
and  he  objects  to  Masson's  use  of  "pyrrhics"  or  "spondees,"  but  he  had 
not  altogether  emancipated  himself  from  syllable  counting  and  his  de- 
tailed discussions  of  Milton's  variations  from  "regular"  verses  of  five 
stresses  grows  tiresome.  Of  course,  Lowell  wrote  before  the  days  of 
Sievers  or  Schipper,  but  his  own  poetic  ear  should  have  taught  him 
better. 

In  his  essay  on  Pope,  Lowell  frequently  used  the  earlier  lecture.  The 
description  of  the  influence  of  France  on  English  literature  and  the  analysis 
of  the  English  mind  at  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century  are  at  times 
verbatim,  but  the  best  passage,  which  is  an  example  of  Lowell's  con- 
structive criticism,  in  which  he  draws  a  picture  of  an  age,  appears  for 
the  first  time  in  the  essay  of  1871. 

During  the  era  when  the  French  theory  of  poetry  was  supreme,  we  notice  a 
decline  from  imagination  to  fancy,  from  passion  to  wit,  from  metaphor,  which 
fuses  image  and  thought  in  one,  to  simile,  which  sets  one  beside  the  other, 
from  the  supreme  code  of  natural  sympathies  to  the  parochial  bylaws  of 
etiquette.94 

It  seems  as  though  his  renewed  study  of  one  of  the  great  masters  of 
verbal  distinctions  had  inspired  Lowell  to  write  this  passage.  An  interest- 
ing change  is  made  in  the  contrasts  between  Chaucer,  Spenser,  Shake- 
speare and  Milton  in  the  two  versions.95  In  both,  Chaucer  is  credited  with 
representing  real  life,  but  in  the  earlier  lecture,  the  ideal  or  interior  life 
is  attributed  to  Spenser  and  the  imaginative  life  to  Shakespeare,  while 
these  attributions  are  exactly  reversed  in  the  later  essay.  More  surprising 
is  the  verbal  identity  of  the  long  passages  in  which  Lowell  acknowledges, 
"I  confess  that  I  come  to  the  treatment  of  Pope  with  diffidence.  I  was 
brought  up  in  the  old  superstition  that  he  was  the  greatest  poet  that  ever 
lived,"  and  that  the  inevitable  reaction  made  it  impossible  to  read  Pope. 

93  Lectures,  p.  128.  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  3,  p.  292. 

94  My  Study  Windows,  p.  430.  There  is  always  a  possibility  that  the  earlier  lecture 
is  incomplete. 

95  Lectures,  p.  154.  My  Study  Windows,  p.  434. 


4i6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

"But,"  he  continues,  "I  have  since  read  every  line  that  Pope  ever  wrote 
and  every  letter  written  by  or  to  him  and  that  more  than  once.  If  I  have 
not  come  to  the  conclusion  that  he  is  the  greatest  of  poets,  I  believe  I 
am  at  least  in  a  condition  to  allow  him  every  merit  that  is  fairly  his."  96 
The  question  naturally  arises,  did  Lowell  twice  read  every  line  Pope 
wrote,  and  to  what  period  does  "since"  refer?  The  right  of  an  author  to 
repeat  himself  hardly  extends  to  a  statement  of  critical  chronology!  But 
it  means  that  Lowell's  reconversion  to  Pope  must  be  placed  nearly  twenty 
years  earlier  than  is  usually  stated.  The  high  praise  of  "The  Rape  of  the 
Lock"  is  practically  identical,  but  Lowell  added  in  1871  the  useful  distinc- 
tion between  two  kinds  of  genius,  the  higher,  that  which  speaks  out  of 
the  eternal  to  the  present,  and  the  lower,  that  which  tells  its  age  what  it 
wishes  to  be  told.  The  closing  words  of  both  lecture  and  essay  are  identi- 
cal. 

If  to  have  added  more  phrases  to  our  language  than  any  other  but  Shakespeare; 
if  to  have  charmed  four  generations  makes  a  man  a  great  poet,  then  he  is  one. 
. . .  Measured  by  any  high  standard  of  imagination,  he  will  be  found  wanting; 
tried  by  any  test  of  wit,  he  is  unrivalled.97 

The  essay  on  Wordsworth  (1875),  owes  also  a  good  deal  to  the  earlier 
lecture,  for  example,  the  description  of  the  country  in  which  he  grew 
up  and  its  effect  upon  him.  Nearly  all  the  personal  biography  and  some 
of  the  best  criticism  of  Wordsworth  was  used  for  an  introduction  to  an 
edition  of  that  poet's  works  in  1854.98  While  Lowell  added  quite  a  little 
to  the  essay  in  1875,  the  frugality  of  his  use  of  his  earlier  material  in 
the  collected  form  of  his  essays  is  reflected  in  the  verbatim  repetition  of 
the  eloquent  close  of  the  lecture. 

Of  no  other  poet  except  Shakespeare  have  so  many  phrases  become  household 
words  as  of  Wordsworth.  If  Pope  has  made  current  more  epigrams  of  worldly 
wisdom,  to  Wordsworth  belongs  the  nobler  praise  of  having  defined  for  us, 
and  given  us  for  a  daily  possession,  those  faint  and  vague  suggestions  of  other- 
worldliness  of  whose  gentle  ministry  with  our  baser  nature  the  hurry  and 
bustle  of  life  scarcely  ever  allowed  us  to  be  conscious.  He  has  won  for  him- 
self a  secure  immortality  by  a  depth  of  intuition  which  makes  only  the  best 
minds  at  their  best  hours  worthy,  or  indeed  capable,  of  his  companionship, 
and  by  a  homely  sincerity  of  human  sympathy  which  reaches  the  humblest 
heart.  Our  language  owes  him  gratitude  for  the  habitual  purity  and  abstinence 
of  his  style,  and  we  who  speak  it,  for  having  emboldened  us  to  take  delight 
in  simple  things,  and  to  trust  ourselves  to  our  own  instincts.  And  he  hath  his 
reward.  It  needs  not  to  bid 

98  Lectures,  pp.  154-155.  My  Study  Windows,  pp.  435-436. 

97  Lectures,  pp.  163-164;  My  Study  Windows,  p.  472. 

98  The  Poetical  Works  of  William  Wordsworth,  Vol.  1,  pp.  ix-xl.  The  memoir  is 
unsigned. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  417 

"Renowned   Spenser,  lie  a  thought  more  nigh 
To  learned  Chaucer,  and  rare  Beaumont  lie 
A  little  nearer  Spenser." 
for  there  is  no  fear  of  crowding  in  that  little  society  with  whom  he  is  now 
enrolled  as  the  fifth  in  the  succession  of  the  great  English  Poets." 

In  the  lecture  on  "Poetic  Diction,"  Lowell  developed  his  belief  in  the 
"metaphoric  vitality"  of  words  "when  men  named  things;  now  we  only 
label  them  to  know  them  apart."  He  used  the  opening  of  Evangeline  to 
illustrate  the  "noble  solemnity"  of  phrases  which  connote  more  than  any 
other  words  because  of  their  supreme  fitness.  Lowell  did  not  recast  all 
of  the  lectures,  but  he  reproduced  ideas  in  the  later  essays.  In  the  con- 
cluding lecture  on  "The  Function  of  the  Poet"  he  defined  the  poet  as 
"he  who  can  best  see  or  best  say  what  is  ideal:  what  belongs  to  the  world 
of  soul  and  of  beauty,"  10°  in  which  he  agreed,  of  course,  with  Poe. 

To  the  same  period  as  the  Lectures  on  English  Poets  belongs  his  essay 
on  Keats,  and  considering  the  strong  influence  of  Keats  upon  Lowell's 
early  poetry,  it  is  rather  slight,  perhaps  because  in  writing  it  he  used  an 
introduction  to  an  edition  of  Keats  in  1854.  There  are  brilliant  sentences: 
"In  the  parliament  of  the  present,  every  man  represents  a  constituency 
of  the  past,"  and  there  is  an  able  comparison  between  Wordsworth,  Keats, 
and  Byron. 

While  it  is  dangerous  to  use  the  ultimate  dates  of  publication  in  study- 
ing Lowell's  development,  there  was  a  period  in  the  sixties,  while  he  was 
editor  of  the  North  American  Review,  in  which  some  of  his  most  con- 
structive criticism  was  written.  "Shakespeare  Once  More"  (1868)  rep- 
resents Lowell  in  his  critical  maturity.  He  had,  of  course,  assimilated 
much  that  had  been  written  by  others,  especially  Goethe  and  Coleridge, 
to  whom  he  pays  tribute,  but  he  illustrates  in  the  following  passage  the 
higher  form  of  analysis  which  approaches  constructive  criticism: 

We  admire  in  Homer,  the  blind  placid  mirror  of  the  world's  young  manhood, 
the  bard  who  escapes  from  his  misfortune  in  poems  all  memory,  all  life  and 
bustle,  adventure  and  picture;  we  revere  in  Dante  that  compressed  force  of 
life-long  passion  which  could  make  a  private  experience  cosmopolitan  in  its 
reach  and  everlasting  in  its  significance;  we  respect  in  Goethe  the  Aristotelian 
poet,  wise  by  weariless  observation,  witty  with  intention,  the  stately  Geheimer- 
rath  of  a  provincial  court  in  the  empire  of  Nature.  As  we  study  these,  we  seem 
in  our  limited  way  to  penetrate  into  their  consciousness  and  to  measure  and 
master  their  methods;  but  with  Shakespeare  it  is  just  the  other  way;  the  more 
we  have  familiarized  ourselves  with  the  operations  of  our  own  consciousness, 
the  more  do  we  find,  in  reading  him,  that  he  has  been  beforehand  with  us,  and 
that,  while  we  have  been  vainly  endeavoring  to  find  the  door  of  his  being,  he 

99  Lectures,  pp.  195-196;  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  3,  pp.  241-242.  In  the  Lectures, 
the  quotation  from  Jonson,  is  given  incompletely. 

100  Lectures,  p.  202. 


4i 8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

has  searched  every  nook  and  cranny  of  our  own.  While  other  poets  and  drama- 
tists embody  isolated  phases  of  character  and  work  inward  from  the  phenome- 
non to  the  special  law  which  it  illustrates,  he  seems  in  some  strange  way  unitary 
with  human  nature  itself,  and  his  own  soul  to  have  been  the  law  and  life-giving 
power  of  which  his  creations  are  only  the  phenomena.101 

Of  similar  interest  are  the  passages  dealing  with  the  universal  vitality 
of  all  great  art,  "for  it  is  the  excellence  in  any  department  of  art,  that  it 
can  never  be  bygone,  and  it  is  not  mere  difference  from  antique  models, 
but  the  way  in  which  that  difference  is  shown— that  we  are  to  consider 
in  our  judgment  of  a  modern  work."  102 

Lowell  defends  Shakespeare  from  the  criticism  that  his  tragic  char- 
acters permit  light  words  to  interrupt  the  most  serious  passages.  He  calls 
attention  to  the  distinction  between  "a  passion  that  looks  forward,  like 
revenge  or  lust,  and  goes  right  to  its  end,  and  is  straightforward  in  its 
expression;  and  a  tragic  passion,  which  is  in  its  nature  unavailing,  like 
disappointment,  regret  of  the  inevitable,  or  remorse,  is  reflective,  and 
liable  to  be  continually  diverted  by  the  suggestions  of  fancy."  103  In  the 
Greek  drama  the  catastrophe  is  foreordained  by  an  inexorable  Destiny 
while  the  element  of  freewill  and  consequently  of  choice  is  the  very  axis 
of  the  modern.  Lowell  does  not  hesitate  to  contradict  Goethe's  remark 
that  Shakespeare  was  too  undramatic  for  the  German  theatre,  without 
pruning.  He  agrees,  however,  with  Goethe  concerning  the  character  of 
Hamlet,  and  his  defence  of  Shakespeare's  disregard  of  chronology  in 
favor  of  a  truth  to  the  timeless  universal  nature  of  a  son's  revenge  for  a 
father's  murder  has  been  ratified  even  in  contemporary  drama  by  the 
success  of  Maxwell  Anderson's  Winterset.  Lowell  has  reconstructed  skil- 
fully the  Hamlet  whose  tragedy  lies  in  his  indecision,  his  willingness 
to  put  off  killing  the  king  so  that  he  may  postpone  action.  He  is  the 
philosopher  in  excess,  and,  as  Lowell  puts  it,  "it  is  an  inherent  peculiarity 
of  a  mind  like  Hamlet's  that  it  should  be  conscious  of  its  own  defect." 
This  tragedy  of  indecision  is  a  universal  motive  and,  to  a  man  of  deep 
feeling,  torture.  It  is  significant  that  Eugene  O'Neill  makes  it  the  motive 
of  The  Iceman  Cometh,  among  characters  as  remote  from  royalty  as  can 
well  be  imagined.  Lowell  dismisses  the  question  of  Hamlet  really  being 
mad,  because  that  would  make  the  play  meaningless.  Lowell  sees  a  moral 
in  the  great  tragedies  but  rightly  insists  that  Shakespeare  did  not  write 
them  for  the  sake  of  the  moral;  he  scanned  human  nature  with  the  uni- 
versal view  of  the  artist,  knowing  that  great  literature  has  not  avoided  a 
moral,  provided  it  shuns  the  didactic.  TTie  close  of  the  essay  is  eloquent: 

But  higher  even  than  the  genius  1  rate  the  character  of  this  unique  man,  and 
the  grand  impersonality  of  what  he  wrote.  What  has  he  told  us  of  himself? 

101  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  i,  pp.  242-243. 

102  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  1,  p.  252. 
10:!  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  1,  p.  273. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  419 

In  our  self-exploiting  nineteenth  century,  with  its  melancholy  liver-complaint, 
how  serene  and  high  he  seems!  If  he  had  sorrows,  he  has  made  them  the  woof 
of  everlasting  consolation  to  his  kind;  and  if,  as  poets  are  wont  to  whine,  the 
outward  world  was  cold  to  him,  its  biting  air  did  but  trace  itself  in  loveliest 
frost-work  of  fancy  on  the  many  windows  of  that  self-centered  and  cheerful 
soul.104 

In  this  period  of  Lowell's  criticism  came  the  sympathetic  discussion  of 
Dryden,  (1868),  who  "had  that  indefinable  something  we  call  genius," 
a  quality  Lowell  had  attributed  to  Poe  in  1845,  and  which  he  credits  to 
Cowper  later.  Dryden's  great  power,  used  only  at  times,  and  his  fine 
critical  judgment  are  given  their  due.  His  conversion  to  Catholicism  is 
treated  fairly;  Lowell  shows  the  reason  why  it  was  natural  to  Dryden. 
His  summing  up  is  discriminating:  "Was  he  a  great  poet?  Hardly  in  the 
narrowest  definition.  But  he  was  a  strong  thinker,  who  sometimes  carried 
common  sense  to  a  height  where  it  catches  the  light  of  a  diviner  air,  and 
warmed  reason  till  it  had  well-nigh  the  illuminating  property  of  intui- 
tion." 

The  article  on  Lessing  (1866)  is  an  account  of  German  literature  in 
the  eighteenth  century.  He  corrects  the  biographer  of  Lessing,  whose 
book  he  is  reviewing,  concerning  the  growth  of  the  tragedy  of  middle- 
class  life,  showing  how  The  Yorkshire  Tragedy  preceded  Lillo  by  more 
than  a  century  and  tracing  more  clearly  the  influence  of  Moore's 
Gamester  and  Diderot  upon  Lessing.  Lowell  is  correct  in  his  belief  in  the 
right  of  creative  art  to  proceed  untrammeled  apparently  by  fixed  prin- 
ciples. He  should  have  been  more  clear  in  distinguishing,  however,  be- 
tween mere  rules  and  fundamental  laws,  which  must  not  be  violated. 
O'Neill  brushed  aside  Ibsen's  rules  against  "asides"  on  the  stage  in  Strange 
Interlude,  but  he  never  violated  the  dramatic  law  of  contrast  and  conflict. 

In  the  essay  on  Dante  (1872),  Lowell  rose  to  real  heights  of  compre- 
hension of  the  age  of  transition,  the  thirteenth  century,  in  his  picture  of 
Dante  as  the  centre  of  that  epoch.  The  i;stinction  between  the  artist  and 
the  moralist  leads  to  the  recognition  of  Dante,  in  whom  the  religious 
sentiment  and  the  imagination  are  both  organic  so  that  "the  moral  will 
insensibly  suffuse  itself  with  beauty  as  a  cloud  with  light."  This  is  con- 
structive criticism,  which  solves  for  a  great  poet  the  age-long  dualism. 
Constructive  also  is  the  contrast  between  Greek  art  whose  perfect  form 
"rests  solidly  and  complacently  on  the  earth,  and  the  mind  rests  there 
with  it,"  and  Christian  art  typified  in  the  Gothic  cathedral,  "the  visible 
symbol  of  an  inward  faith— which  soars  forever  upward,  and  yearns 
toward  heaven  like  a  martyr  flame  suddenly  turned  to  stone."  Lowell's 
warning  that  science  must  not  outgrow  ethics  rings  like  a  warning  for 
today.  The  meaning  of  Dante's  love  for  Beatrice  is  touched  with  an 
eloquence  which  needs  no  comment: 

104  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  1,  p.  320. 


42o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

It  traces  with  exquisite  unconsciousness  the  gradual  but  certain  steps  by  which 
memory  and  imagination  transubstantiated  the  woman  of  flesh  and  blood  into 
a  holy  ideal,  combining  in  one  radiant  symbol  of  sorrow  and  hope  that  faith 
which  is  the  instinctive  refuge  of  unavailing  regret,  that  grace  of  God  which 
higher  natures  learn  to  find  in  the  trial  which  passeth  all  understanding,  and 
that  perfect  womanhood  the  dream  of  youth  and  the  memory  of  maturity, 
which  beckons  toward  the  forever  unattainable.  As  a  contribution  to  the 
physiology  of  genius,  no  other  book  is  to  be  compared  with  the  Vita  Nuova.105 

And  the  close  of  the  essay  with  its  comparison  between  Shakespeare 
and  Dante  is  another  piece  of  constructive  criticism  of  a  high  order. 
Lowell  had  been  a  constant  critic  and  advisor  while  Longfellow's  transla- 
tion of  Dante  was  being  written  and  his  broad  knowledge  and  Long- 
fellow's inspiration  form  an  imposing  combination. 

The  criticism  of  Gray  (1886)  is  brief  in  contrast  with  the  Dante 
essay,  but  it  revealed  no  falling  off  in  his  understanding  of  the  time  in 
which  Gray  lived.  Indeed  his  criticism  of  Dryden  as  the  precursor  of  the 
eighteenth  century  and  his  summing  up  of  that  period  revealed  once  more 
his  understanding  of  it.  The  essay  is  a  defence  of  the  poet  who  takes 
what  he  finds  and  makes  more  of  it.  It  was  evidently  written  with  more 
enjoyment  than  another  later  utterance,  The  Old  English  Dramatists 
(1887). 

Lowell's  dramatic  criticism  began  with  articles  on  Chapman,  Ford, 
Webster  and  Massinger  in  1842,106  and  Middleton  in  1843.  Lowell  in- 
cluded some  of  the  material  on  Chapman  and  Ford  in  his  Conversations 
on  Some  of  the  Old  Poets  in  1845,  revised  in  the  form  of  dialogues.  When 
he  gave  his  lectures  on  The  Old  English  Dramatists  in  1887,  he  states 
categorically  in  the  introductory  lecture  that  he  has  not  seen  the  Conver- 
sations for  years,  so  that  any  detailed  comparison  would  be  out  of  order. 
In  the  essay  on  Chapman,  only  one  of  the  earlier  poetic  selections  is 
used,  and  that  would  have  been  a  natural  choice  on  account  of  its  ex- 
cellence. Lowell  loved  drama  because  of  the  poetical  qualities,  for  the 
imagination,  sentiment  and  diction.  He  rarely  speaks  of  the  interpretation 
of  a  playwright  by  an  actor,  and  there  are  few  references  to  the  theatre, 
which  he  did  not  visit  often,  if  at  all.  This  explains  his  statement,  which 
had  been  expressed  by  Goethe  and  Lamb,107  that  characters  are  best 
seen  when  our  imagination  gives  them  life  and  they  become  less  ideal 
when  they  are  compressed  within  the  limits  of  a  single  actor.  His  dramatic 
criticism  suffers  from  this  point  of  view  although,  of  course,  he  could 
not  have  seen  many  of  the  plays  on  the  stage.  He  chooses  usually  the 
illustrations  that  will  bring  out  the  meaning  best,  such  as  the  last  scene 

105  Among  My  Books,  Vol.  3,  pp.  37-38. 

100  These  were  not  published  in  book  form  by  Lowell,  and  were  first  reprinted 
in  the  Early  Prose  Writings,  cd.  Walter  Littlefield  (London  and  New  York,  1903). 

107  See  Augustus  Ralli,  A  History  of  Shakesperian  Criticism  (London,  1932),  Vol.  1, 
p.  124. 


THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM  421 

of  Dr.  Fanstns  of  Marlowe  in  which  "the  verse  rises  to  the  true  dramatic 
sympathy." 

The  essay  on  Webster  is  largely  retelling  and  analysis  of  plot,  but  if 
he  did  not  quote  the  most  famous  line  of  the  Duchess  of  Malfi,  "Cover  her 
face:  mine  eyes  dazzle:  she  died  young,"  it  is  perhaps  because  he  had 
already  used  it  in  his  "Poetic  Diction."  In  "Beaumont  and  Fletcher"  his 
preference  for  Fletcher  as  "the  more  poet  of  the  two"  has  not  been  fol- 
lowed in  the  best  critical  judgments.  Lowell  seems  to  have  been  unaware 
of  Fletcher's  preference  for  feminine  endings  and  end-stopped  verses 
which  enable  us  to  differentiate  with  portions  of  The  Maid's  Tragedy, 
and  give  to  Beaumont  the  most  intensely  tragic  scenes.  On  the  whole  the 
lectures  on  The  Old  English  Dramatists  are  disappointing.  Lowell  felt 
the  strain  himself  and  the  series  proved  to  be  a  task. 

Lowell  naturally  had  his  limitations.  He  is  too  prone  to  qualify  his 
critical  judgments,  especially  when  he  is  concerned  with  an  author  whom 
he  admires,  but  whom  the  criticism  of  Lowell's  own  day  had  partially 
discarded.  The  essay  on  Dryden  is  an  example  of  this  hesitancy.  There 
is  a  bit  too  much  of  an  apology  for  Fielding's  coarseness,  and  his  address 
upon  Coleridge  also  reveals  this  attitude.  It  can  best  be  expressed  by 
Lowell's  own  paraphrase  of  Pope,  which  he  employs  in  his  essay  on  Gray 
in  referring  to  Goldsmith's  estimate  of  "The  Progress  of  Poetry,"— "Will- 
ing to  praise  and  yet  afraid  to  like."  This  quality  is  due  to  his  broad- 
minded  nature  and  is  certainly  to  be  preferred  to  the  dogmatic  tone  he 
took  in  "The  Library  of  Old  Authors,"  (1856-64),  in  which  he  treats 
Southwell  and  Wither  with  contempt,  and  proceeds  with  tiresome  and 
detailed  criticism  of  the  editing  of  the  "Old  Authors"  in  question. 

His  essay  on  Spenser  established  a  critical  standard  for  the  "poet's 
poet"  which  remained  for  many  years.  That  on  "Chaucer"  is  still  quoted 
with  respect  by  medieval  scholars;  "Shakespeare  Once  More,"  "Pope," 
and  "Dante"  have  reappeared  in  many  a  lecture  room  for  years,  disguised 
at  times  and  not  always  acknowledged. 


The  scope  of  this  work  forbids  discussion  of  other  critics  who  are 
now  of  historical  interest  because  of  their  judgment  of  their  contempo- 
raries. Edwin  P.  Whipple  (1819-86),  for  example,  gave  a  survey  of 
American  Literature  in  1844  based  upon  a  review  of  Griswold's  Poets 
and  Poetry  of  America,108  which  is  far  superior  to  that  of  Margaret 
Fuller  at  the  same  time.  His  recognition  that  Longfellow  "rarely  mis- 
takes emotions  for  conceptions,"  or  that  Whittier's  fancy  and  imagination 
do  not  keep  pace  with  his  passion,  illustrate  his  power  of  analysis.  Yet 
there  is  no  mention  of  Poe.  Time  has  avenged  Poe  for  his  neglect,  for 
Whipple  is  not  read  today. 

108  Published  in  Essays  and  Reviews,  Vol.  1,  pp.  30-77. 


422  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  men  who  established  the  general  principles  upon  which  our 
criticism  was  founded  were  happily  creative  artists.  Their  standards  were 
high,  they  were  independent  and,  while  they  had,  of  course,  their  limita- 
tions in  various  directions,  they  present  constructive  criticism  that  still 
serves  as  a  guide.  They  survive,  while  others  are  no  longer  read,  primarily 
because  of  the  form  in  which  their  criticism  is  written.  It  is  in  itself  litera- 
ture, because  each  in  his  own  way  worshipped  beauty  and  clothed  his 
thoughts  in  the  language  of  universality. 


Chapter  25 


9. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY 

In  this  study  of  the  interrelations  of  the  political  thinking  and  the 
literary  achievement  of  a  selected  number  of  our  leading  men  of  letters 
before  the  Civil  War,  we  are  most  definitely  concerned  first,  with  the 
literary  result  of  their  political  thinking  and  second,  with  the  effect  of 
their  writing  upon  the  course  of  politics. 

It  is  necessary  to  begin  with  a  few  definitions.  It  is  a  common  error  to 
speak  of  the  Federalist,  Whig,  and  Republican  parties  as  conservative 
and  of  the  Democratic  as  a  liberal  or  even  a  radical  party.  But  the  South- 
ern element  in  the  Democratic  party  has  often  been  conservative;  and 
while  the  Whigs  were  usually  conservative,  the  Republicans  have  been 
at  times  a  liberal  or,  even  in  the  day  of  Thaddeus  Stevens,  a  radical  party. 
Nor  is  the  real  distinction  the  conventional  one  between  a  philosophy 
of  centralization  of  power  in  the  Federal  government  and  an  insistence 
upon  the  rights  of  the  States.  "States'  Rights"  is  a  political  philosophy 
which  animates  usually  the  party  that  is  not  in  power  in  Washington.  It 
has  been  adopted  by  the  Republican  party  today  as  one  of  its  cardinal 
principles,  although  for  many  years  it  was  good  Democratic  doctrine. 
The  essential  difference  is  more  fundamental,  and  the  restlessness  of  some 
of  our  greater  men  of  letters  in  their  party  affiliations  will  become  clearer 
in  the  light  of  the  following  distinction,  which  may  also  explain  the 
modern  confusion  of  party  thinking. 

Irrespective  of  party  names,  there  have  been  and  now  are  in  this  coun- 
try two  political  philosophies,  two  ways  in  which  the  people  think.  One 
of  these  philosophies  believes  in  a  government  of  laws,  not  of  men,  and 
has  been  represented  by  the  Federalist,  Whig  and  Republican  parties. 
Since  it  is  often  concerned  with  the  preservation  of  some  institution, 
like  the  tariff,  a  central  bank,  the  gold  standard,  or  prohibition,  it  dis- 
trusts the  brilliant  leader,  who  may  seek  to  override  the  laws.  The  real 
power  is,  therefore,  to  be  centered  in  the  legislative  rather  than  in  the 
executive  branch  of  the  Government.  For,  owing  to  its  very  nature,  it 

423 


424  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

is  less  likely  to  destroy  an  institution  it  has  itself  created.  And  the  control 
of  the  lawmaking  body  by  a  more  impersonal  group,  without  the  responsi- 
bility of  office,  is  more  easy  to  secure  than  the  control  of  a  President  who 
owes  his  election  to  his  personal  appeal  to  the  people.  Hamilton,  John 
Adams,  Webster  and  Clay  were  its  greatest  exponents  before  the  Civil 
War  and  it  is  to  be  noticed  that  only  one  of  them  reached  the  Presidency, 
Hamilton  of  course  being  ineligible.  The  Whigs  could  not  elect  Clay 
and  they  never  even  nominated  Webster.  The  extreme  expression  of  this 
manner  of  thinking  may  be  found  in  Nicholas  Biddle's  instructions  to 
General  William  Henry  Harrison  in  his  campaign  in  1840— "Let  him  say 
not  one  word  about  his  principles!  Let  him  say  nothing— promise  noth- 
ing." In  general  these  three  parties  have  included  the  financial,  commercial 
and  industrial  leaders  of  this  country— the  organizers  or  manipulators 
rather  than  the  producers. 

The  other  philosophy,  represented  by  the  Democratic-Republican  and 
the  Democratic  parties,  rests  on  the  belief  that  laws  are  no  better  or  worse 
than  the  men  who  make  or  administer  them.  Jefferson  had  no  constitu- 
tional right  to  buy  Louisiana,  but  he  bought  it.  Madison  wrote  the  Bill 
of  Rights,  not  to  support  but  to  limit  the  Constitution.  Jackson  broke  the 
power  of  the  United  States  Bank.  To  the  members  of  this  party,  a  leader 
is  essential,  because  he  alone  can  hold  the  clans  together.  They  are  not 
so  likely  to  support  an  abstract  institution  as  they  are  to  follow  a  con- 
crete leader.  Generally  speaking  they  are  producers  —  planters,  teachers, 
workers,  with  hand  or  brain,  not  organizers  or  manipulators.  They 
elected  to  the  Presidency,  before  the  Civil  War,  Jefferson,  Madison, 
Monroe,  and  Jackson.  To  the  believers  in  such  a  philosophy,  it  mattered 
little  that  Jackson  violated  the  principle  of  States'  Rights  to  keep  South 
Carolina  in  the  Union.  He  was  their  hero  and  that  was  enough  for  them. 
But  when  they  forgot  their  traditions  and,  in  order  to  preserve  the 
institution  of  Slavery,  elected  Pierce  in  1852  and  Buchanan  in  1856  and 
failed  to  follow  as  a  united  party  their  great  leader,  Stephen  A.  Douglas, 
they  went  out  of  power  for  a  quarter  of  a  century.  The  Southern  leaders, 
who  prevented  the  nomination  of  Douglas  in  i860,  were  fighting  also 
for  the  control  of  the  party,  which  they  had  usually  possessed  since  its 
foundation.  History  is  now  repeating  itself  in  the  struggle  of  the  Southern 
senators  to  control  the  present  Democratic  party. 

For  brevity's  sake,  the  representatives  of  these  two  opposing  political 
philosophies  will  be  known  as  the  party  of  leadership  and  the  party  of 
institutions.  It  is  just  because  they  are  so  fundamental,  because  they 
satisfy,  in  one  direction  or  another,  the  political  desires  and  instincts  of  the 
vast  majority  of  the  people,  that  third  parties  have  never  succeeded  in 
obtaining  a  permanent  hold  in  the  United  States. 

The  two  great  political  issues  during  this  period,  from  the  adoption 
of  the  Constitution  to  the  Civil  War,  were  the  preservation  of  the  Union 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  425 

and  the  abolition  of  Slavery.  Space  limitations  will  prevent  any  further 
treatment  of  Federalist  writers  like  Dwight,  Humphreys,  and  Trumbull 
or  Democrats  like  Barlow,  Brackenridge,  Frcneau  or  John  Dickinson. 

It  must  be  remembered  also  that  the  vast  mass  of  writing  and  speaking 
upon  the  Union  and  upon  Slavery  was  not  literature.  Political  discussion, 
especially  when  it  is  oral,  must  have  an  imaginative  quality  to  remain  of 
permanent  value  and  the  form  of  the  thought  is  naturally  the  determining 
factor.  Up  to  about  1830,  except  for  the  Hartford  Convention  in  18 14, 
the  Union  was  celebrated  as  a  national  treasure  and  then  there  began 
the  attack  upon  it  and  its  defence. 

The  debate  in  the  Senate  between  Robert  Y.  Hayne  of  South  Carolina 
and  Daniel  Webster  of  Massachusetts  was  one  of  the  best  representations 
of  the  oratory  that  has  remained  in  our  literature.  Webster's  second  reply 
in  that  debate  has  often  been  quoted,  but  Hayne's  second  speech,  which 
was  the  occasion  for  Webster's  main  oration,  has  been  passed  over  un- 
justifiably. For  in  it  Hayne  put  brilliantly  the  theory  which  the  South 
Carolinian  believed  so  devotedly: 

Sir,  there  have  existed,  in  every  age  and  country,  two  distinct  orders  of  men 

— the  lovers  of  freedom  and  the  devoted  advocates  of  power The  people 

whom  I  represent,  Mr.  President,  are  the  descendants  of  those  who  brought 
with  them  to  this  country,  as  the  most  precious  of  their  possessions,  "an  ardent 
love  of  liberty,"  and  while  that  shall  be  preserved,  they  will  always  be  found 
manfully  struggling  against  the  consolidation  of  the  government  AS  THE 
WORST  OF  EVILS. 

It  was  this  identification  of  state  sovereignty  and  liberty  which  Webster 
had  to  combat.  Hayne  had  not  lost  the  opportunity  to  taunt  the  senator 
from  Massachusetts  with  his  share  in  the  Hartford  Convention,  or  at  least 
his  sympathy  with  it,  and  the  consequent  inconsistency  with  Webster's 
attitude  in  1830.  With  an  adroitness  that  was  more  frequently  shown  in 
defence  than  in  attack,  Webster  rose  to  the  occasion.  Webster  was  an 
able  orator,  but  much  that  he  has  written  is  rhetoric  rather  than  literature. 
In  his  second  speech  he  identified  the  cause  of  liberty  with  the  preserva- 
tion of  the  Union: 

I  have  not  allowed  myself,  Sir,  to  look  beyond  the  Union,  to  see  what  might 
lie  hidden  in  the  dark  recess  behind.  I  have  not  coolly  weighed  the  chances 
of  preserving  liberty  when  the  bonds  that  unite  us  together  shall  be  broken 
asunder.  I  have  not  accustomed  myself  to  hang  over  the  precipice  of  disunion, 
to  see  whether,  with  my  short  sight,  I  can  fathom  the  depth  of  the  abyss  below; 
nor  could  I  regard  him  as  a  safe  counsellor  in  the  affairs  of  this  government, 
whose  thoughts  should  be  mainly  bent  on  considering,  not  how  the  Union 
may  be  best  preserved,  but  how  tolerable  might  be  the  condition  of  the  people 
when  it  should  be  broken  up  and  destroyed.  While  the  Union  lasts,  we  have 
high,  exciting,  gratifying  prospects  before  us,  for  us  and  our  children.  Beyond 


4i6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

that  I  seek  not  to  penetrate  the  veil.  God  grant  that  in  my  day,  at  least,  that 
curtain  may  not  rise! 

The  conclusion  of  this  oration  is  so  familiar  that  it  need  not  be  quoted. 
It  is  difficult  to  overestimate  the  importance  of  this  speech.  Printed  and 
reprinted,  studied  and  recited  bv  nearly  every  schoolboy  in  the  North 
and  West,  and  even  in  the  South,  it  entered  and  remained  a  part  of  the 
American  soul.  Throughout  the  whole  address,  he  laid  his  emphasis  upon 
the  people  as  opposed  to  the  States,  and  in  one  sentence,  "It  is,  Sir,  the 
people's  Constitution,  the  people's  government,  made  for  the  people, 
made  bv  the  people,  and  answerable  to  the  people,"  we  see  the  first  form 
of  Lincoln's  immortal  phrase.  It  gave  to  the  party  of  institutions  an  ideal, 
something  lofty  and  abstract,  and  yet  presenting  the  only  practical  way 
of  preserving  the  commercial  and  financial  institutions  they  cherished. 

Slavery  also  began  to  be  a  subject  for  literature  only  about  1830.1 
During  the  earlier  years,  the  Constitution  and,  later  the  Congress  had 
defined  and  limited  its  powers  in  dealing  with  Slavery.  The  States  had 
forbidden  importation  of  slaves  and  the  North  believed  Slavery  would 
be  limited  to  the  South  and  gradually  be  abolished.  But  the  invention  of 
the  cotton  gin  in  1795,  the  abolition  in  1803  by  South  Carolina  of  her  law 
against  the  importation  of  slaves,  the  purchase  of  Louisiana,  combined 
to  make  Slavery  not  only  a  reactionary  economic  force  but  also  an 
aggressive  political  one.  This  aggression  created  opposition  in  the  North 
and  this  in  its  turn  made  the  Slave  States  more  insistent.  A  temporary 
lull  was  caused  by  the  ceasing  of  the  importation  of  slaves  in  1808  but 
the  agitation  for  the  extension  of  Slavery  into  Missouri  renewed  the 
excitement  which  was  not  quelled  by  the  Missouri  Compromise  of  1820. 


It  is  not  only  in  these  concrete  issues  that  the  political  preferences  of 
the  men  of  letters  showed  themselves.  In  the  general  struggle  of  the  in- 
dividual against  oligarchy,  the  party  of  leadership  attracted  Irving,  who 
had  begun  life  as  a  Federalist,  but  who  accepted  his  first  political  office, 
that  of  secretary  of  legation  at  London,  from  a  Democratic  administration. 
He  never  became  an  active  party  man,  wishing,  like  Washington,  to  re- 
main independent.  This  was  not  possible,  but  his  fundamental  objection 
to  the  impersonal  form  of  government  which  was  organizing  the  Whig 
party  may  be  seen  indirectly  in  his  greatest  contribution  to  literature. 
The  story  of  "Rip  Van  Winkle"  has  lived  because  it  keeps  the  sympathy 
of  those  who  prefer  to  conduct  their  own  lives,  rather  than  be  ruled  by 
the  oligarchy  of  custom.  The  transfer  of  living's  allegiance  to  the  party 
of  leadership  was  therefore  a  natural  one. 

Realizing   that  after   all    his   first   love   was   literature,   he   steadfastly 

1  For  sonic  earlier  writings,  see  Chapter  Bibliography. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  427 

declined  to  continue  as  secretary  of  legation  and  returned  to  the  United 
States  in  1832.  Here  his  acknowledged  pre-eminence  in  American  letters 
made  him  determined  to  justify  it.  First,  he  became  more  fully  acquainted 
through  his  travels  in  the  South  and  West,  with  his  own  country.  He 
wrote  A  Tour  of  the  Prairies  in  1835  as  a  result  of  this  experience  and 
Astoria,  in  1836,  was  prompted  not  only  by  this  wider  knowledge  but 
also  by  his  realization,  born  of  his  familiarity  with  British  politics,  that 
there  was  an  impending  struggle  between  England  and  the  United  States 
for  the  control  of  the  Northwest.  His  travels  taught  him  also  the  great 
importance  of  this  vast  Western  territory  not  only  for  itself,  but  also  as 
the  natural  outlet  for  the  expansion  of  the  East.  The  inevitable  result 
of  such  experience  strengthened  his  belief  in  the  necessity  for  the  Union 
and  this,  in  turn,  made  him  a  "Jackson  man,"  for  the  old  General  was 
engaged  in  his  supreme  struggle  with  South  Carolina  over  the  right  of 
a  state  to  nullify  a  Federal  Act.  Irving  could  have  taken  a  more  active 
share  in  American  politics  if  he  had  desired.  But  he  declined  Van  Buren's 
offer  of  the  Secretaryship  of  the  Navy,  in  1838,  because  he  disliked  the 
turmoil  of  politics,  the  violence  of  party  feelings  and  the  virulence  of 
the  press.  Yet  when  the  offer  of  the  Ministry  to  Spain  came  from  the 
Tyler  administration  in  February,  1842,  Irving  accepted  it  gladly.  Some 
of  his  friends  and  enemies,  including  Cooper,  believed  he  was  a  Demo- 
cratic renegade  to  the  Whig  camp.  But  his  love  for  Spain  can  easily 
explain  his  choice  and  Tyler,  of  course,  had  left  the  Whigs  and  reverted 
to  his  own  political  philosophy,  that  of  the  Virginia  Democrat. 

When  Irving  returned  from  Spain  in  1 846  and  began  his  long  contem- 
plated, long  deferred  Life  of  Washington,  he  enriched  the  pages  of  what 
is  still  one  of  the  best  portraits  of  the  man  for  whom  he  was  named,  with 
the  knowledge  and  experience  his  political  career  had  given  him. 


Bryant  began  his  political  thinking  in  1808  with  some  boyish,  satirical 
verses  on  the  Embargo  bill  of  President  Jefferson,  which  were  prompted 
by  his  father's  definite  Federalist  views  rather  than  by  the  political 
knowledge  of  a  boy  of  fourteen.  He  tried  to  suppress  them  at  a  later 
period  and,  when  he  assumed  the  editorship  of  the  New  York  Evening 
Post  in  1829,  he  had  become  a  Democrat.  He  was  attracted  to  the  party 
of  leadership  because  in  Andrew  Jackson  he  saw  the  exponent  of  the 
political  philosophy  which  was  opposed  to  special  privilege  of  all  kinds. 
He  was  opposed  to  legislative  restrictions  upon  commerce;  to  the  United 
States  Bank,  which  represented  to  him  the  private  control  of  money; 
and  to  a  tariff  except  for  revenue.  "What  is  free  labor"  he  demanded  in  a 
public  address  in  1874,  "if  we  are  not  permitted  a  free  access  to  the  fruits 
of  our  labor?"  His  love  of  freedom  led  him  to  prefer  the  strong  executive 
who  could  be  watched  closely  and  he  distrusted  the  less  tangible  action 


428  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  the  legislative  branch  of  government,  which  might  fasten  upon  the 
country  institutions  hard  to  destroy  if  they  proved  unwise. 

Bryant  never  held  political  office,  but  of  course  his  editorials  in  the 
Post  constantlv  dealt  with  politics.  He  was  an  example  of  the  combination 
of  an  idealist  and  a  party  man,  who  did  not  believe  in  third  parties,  even 
the  Free  Soil  party,  much  as  he  disliked  Slavery.  His  practical  sense, 
expressed  in  a  letter  to  his  brother  in  the  campaign  of  1852,  argued  that 
a  party  based  upon  a  single  idea  had  no  prospect  of  obtaining  a  majority 
in  a  Presidential  election.  He  therefore  steadily  voted  the  Democratic 
ticket,  except  in  1848,  when  the  exclusion  of  his  section  of  the  party  in 
New  York  State  from  the  National  Convention  made  him  refuse  to  vote 
for  Lewis  Cass.  When,  however,  anti-Slavery  became  associated  with 
the  salvation  of  the  Union  in  i860,  he  supported  Lincoln  and  presided 
at  his  Cooper  LTnion  address.  He  swung  the  Post  to  a  limited  support  of 
the  Republican  party  but  withdrew  himself  from  public  participation  in 
politics  during  his  later  years.  But  in  1876  he  declined  to  vote  for  Hayes, 
thereby  expressing  his  instinctive  preference  for  the  party  of  leadership 
under  Tilden  as  he  had  done  in  his  support  of  Jackson.  In  his  poetry, 
"Not  Yet"  and  "Our  Country's  Call"  were  inspired  by  defence  of  the 
Union  at  the  opening  of  the  Civil  War,  but  his  principal  poems  were 
upon  abstract  themes.  "The  Death  of  Slavery"  was  not  published  until 
freedom  had  been  won.  His  other  national  poems  were  patriotic  and 
historical  or,  like  "Abraham  Lincoln,"  memorial  tributes. 

Almost  at  the  close  of  his  life  Bryant  revealed  his  clear  understanding 
of  the  major  political  events  of  our  history  in  his  essay  "A  Retrospective 
Glance,"  the  introduction2  to  A  Popular  History  of  the  United  States, 
written  with  S.  H.  Gay,  in  1878.  The  remarkable  choice  of  words  and 
phrases  makes  it  as  truly  a  piece  of  literature  as  any  of  his  prose  utter- 
ances. He  emphasizes  the  crusade  against  Slavery  and  the  struggle  for 
preservation  of  the  Union;  and  it  is  interesting  to  read  today  of  the  evil 
effect  of  the  Civil  War  in  the  growth  of  crime  and  fraud.  It  was  his  last 
appeal  in  print,  to  celebrate  a  record  of  victories  for  free  speech,  free 
men  and  free  soil  and  to  plead  for  free  trade  among  nations. 


James  Fenimore  Cooper  held  no  public  office  in  the  United  States  and, 
while  he  occupied  the  consulate  at  Lyons  from  1826  to  1829,  his  duties 
were  nominal  and  financially  unrewarded.  He  had  declined  an  appoint- 
ment as  Minister  to  Sweden  and  asked  for  the  consulate  simply  to  give 
him  some  standing  as  a  representative  of  his  country.  He  received  it  at 
the  hands  of  Henry  Clay,  Adams'  Secretary  of  State,  at  a  time  when 
Clay  still  called  himself  a  "National  Republican,"  rather  than  a  "Whig." 
The  appointment  went  to  Cooper  as  a  man  of  letters  rather  than  as  a 

2  Prose  Writings,  Vol.  2,  pp.  406-419. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  429 

politician.  Yet  Cooper  was  constantly  concerned  with  political  philosophy 
and,  as  was  the  case  with  everything  else  in  which  he  was  interested, 
he  took  definite  sides  and  he  expressed  himself  forcibly.  Cooper  belonged 
to  the  party  of  leadership  because  he  was  a  patrician.  The  landed  estates 
which  he  inherited  or  married  into  represented  to  him  the  only  reality 
as  opposed  to  financial  or  commercial  prosperity,  which  might  disappear 
overnight.  He  had  been  brought  up  in  a  society  in  which  his  father  had 
ruled  in  almost  a  feudal  state  at  Cooperstown.  The  only  aristocracy  which 
he  recognized  was  that  of  the  landholder,  because  of  its  permanency,  and 
he  recognized  the  obligations  of  the  landowner  as  well  as  his  rights.  He 
belonged  to  the  Democratic  party  because  the  individual  head  of  the 
clan  who  holds  the  tribe  together,  was  to  him  of  supreme  importance. 

He  came  into  young  manhood  when  Jefferson  was  at  the  height  of  his 
fame  and  he  followed  the  leader  who  had  added  vast  territory  to  the 
United  States,  and  who  represented  as  well  as  any  American  could,  the 
old  theory  of  "the  King  and  the  Commons  against  the  rest."  The  "rest" 
to  Cooper  were  the  middle  class,  the  commercial  and  financial  oligarchy 
which  depends  upon  some  institution  for  its  strength.  That  these  did 
not  consider  themselves  as  the  "middle  class"  did  not  disturb  Cooper. 
For  their  institutional  manner  of  thinking,  which  had  been  characteristic 
of  the  Federalists  and  became  the  guiding  principle  of  the  Whigs  just 
before  he  returned  to  the  United  States  in  1832,  he  had  no  liking.  To  him, 
it  meant  the  tyranny  of  the  tribe  over  the  individual,  which  crushed  him 
under  the  weight  of  superficial  rules,  instead  of  permitting  him  to  deter- 
mine his  own  destiny.  Cooper  knew  English  history  well  and,  in  his  novel 
of  Homeward  Bound,  he  criticized  vigorously  the  oligarchy  which  ruled 
England  at  the  time  of  the  American  Revolution. 

Cooper  expressed  his  philosophy  of  government  both  directly  and  in- 
directly. In  his  Notions  of  the  Americans  he  included  an  extremely  inter- 
esting picture  of  our  system  of  government  and  of  our  conduct  of  elec- 
tions. His  essential  democracy  is  shown  in  his  defence  of  our  system  by 
which  Congress  represented  all  strata  of  the  people  and  an  individual  had 
the  chance  to  win  political  power  if  his  ability  were  sufficient.  While  he 
was  still  in  France,  he  became  embroiled  in  a  dispute  precipitated  by  an 
article  in  the  Revue  Brittannique  which  stated  that  the  government  of 
the  United  States  was  more  expensive  than  that  of  France.  This  was 
prompted  by  a  desire  to  attack  Lafayette,  who  had  held  our  system  up 
as  a  model  and  Cooper  came  to  the  defence  of  his  friend  and  of  his  native 
country  in  his  Letter  to  General  Lafayette  (December,  183 1).  This  is  a 
detailed  account  of  our  finances  and  should  have  convinced  anyone,  but 
it  became  a  political  issue  in  France,  and  Cooper  continued  the  contest 
in  letters  published  in  the  National  from  November,  183 1  to  May,  1832. 
We  have  no  space  here  to  quote  the  details  of  this  controversy.  Cooper 
gave  them  at  length  in  his  Letter  to  His  Countrymen  (1834),  which  re- 


430  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

veals  how  his  novel  The  Bravo  was  dragged  into  the  conflict,  and  he 
quotes  from  the  Whig  newspapers  of  New  York  who  seized  the  oppor- 
tunity to  attack  him.  He  also  took  the  occasion  to  express  his  preference 
for  the  executive  over  the  legislative  functions  in  government  and  prophe- 
sied that,  if  the  Union  were  ever  destroyed,  it  would  "not  be  by  executive 
but  by  legislative  usurpation." 

Cooper  was  attracted  instinctively  to  the  dramatic  aspects  of  political 
events.  In  the  second  part  of  the  Sketches  of  Switzerland,  even  the  descrip- 
tions of  scenery  are  surpassed  by  the  accounts  of  the  French  Revolution 
of  1830  as  told  by  Lafayette  to  Cooper  and  Cooper's  own  exposition  of 
what  he  believed  would  be  the  best  government  for  France.  His  under- 
standing of  French  character  was  keen  and  the  historic  events  he  wit- 
nessed, such  as  the  abortive  rebellion  of  June,  1832,  he  describes  with  a 
picturesque  clarity  that  rivals  some  passages  in  his  best  novels.  He  never 
loses  his  love  for  democracy  in  general  or  in  the  United  States,  "a  country 
in  which,  were  the  truth  felt  and  understood,  a  man  could  not  possibly 
fulfil  all  the  obligations  of  education  and  superior  training,  without  being 
of  the  party  of  the  people."  s 

In  his  preface  to  the  American  Democrat,  (1838),  he  explains  that  he 
prefers  a  democracy  to  any  other  system  because  while  it  has  evils, 
monarchy  and  aristocracy  have  more.  He  brought  together  in  this  work, 
his  conception  of  the  organization  of  our  political  system  and  it  is  still 
a  worthwhile  document  in  our  literature  of  politics.  The  novels  which 
he  wrote  to  express  this  belief  have  already  been  discussed  in  an  earlier 
chapter.  Homeward  Bound  and  Home  as  Found,  however,  illustrated 
his  philosophy  of  politics  in  its  application  to  his  own  country.  Through 
John  Effingham,  one  of  the  characters,  he  satirized,  especially  in  the 
second  novel,  the  commercialized  standards  and  manner  of  thinking  in 
New  York  City.  In  contrast,  to  Effingham,  who  came  of  a  good  family 
and  had  real  property,  and  therefore,  according  to  Cooper,  was  permitted 
to  criticize  anyone,  New  York  was  the  abode  of  mediocrity.  He  also 
attacked  the  men  of  letters  for  their  puffery  of  each  other  and  for  their 
"book  clubs"  of  those  days.  Cooper  became  known  as  "John  Effingham" 
to  his  enemies  from  that  day  forth. 

Not  only  in  those  novels  in  which  the  very  basis  is  this  patrician  con- 
ception of  society,  but  also  in  individual  characters  in  others  of  his  narra- 
tives, such  as  Marmaduke  Temple  in  The  Pioneers,  Cooper  represented 
the  pride  and  contentment  of  the  landholder.  A  natural  consequence, 
also,  is  the  deep  sense  of  wrong  which  Oliver  Effingham  in  The  Pioneers 
feels  concerning  the  man  who,  he  believes,  has  robbed  him  of  his  in- 
heritance. 

Still  more  indirectly  but  none  the  less,  truly,  Cooper's  philosophy  of 
leadership  affected  his  greatest  characters,  Hawkeye,  the  white  hunter, 

:i  Sketches  in  Switzerland  (1836),  Vol.  1,  pp.  90-91. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  431 

and  his  Indian  braves,  Uncas  and  Chingachgook.  Hawkeye  is  the  supreme 
individual,  owing  allegiance  to  no  one  but  God.  Uncas  and  the  others 
are  Chieftains— rulers  of  their  tribes,  as  truly  patricians  as  the  owner  of 
Cooperstown  himself,  and  the  summits  of  a  feudal  system  as  complete 
as  his  own. 

The  most  immediate  effect  of  his  writing  upon  political  conditions 
came  after  his  return  from  Europe.  He  was  a  notable  figure  and  while 
most  of  the  attacks  upon  him  by  the  Whig  newspapers  of  New  York 
were  personal,  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  party  of  institutions 
rallied  to  the  defence  of  the  very  foundations  of  their  growing  financial 
and  commercial  supremacy.  Certainly  the  attacks  of  the  Albany  Evening 
Journal,  the  New  York  Tribune  and  the  Courier  and  Enquirer  had  a 
vicious  quality  which  usually  springs  from  a  fear  that  the  victim  may 
become  the  nominee  of  an  opposite  party.  They  persisted  until  his  suits 
for  libel  made  them  cease,  somewhat  poorer  and  a  bit  wiser.  Not  all  the 
mistakes  in  this  controversy  were  on  one  side,  for  Cooper  gave  as  well  as 
received,  but  those  who  think  that  Dickens  exaggerated  the  sordid  quality 
of  the  newspapers  in  Martin  Chuzzlewit,  should  read  the  violent  abuse 
which  the  Whig  journals  leveled  at  Cooper.  They  make  political  criticism 
of  today  seem  mild  and  tame,  and  they  were  exceeded  in  the  nineteenth 
century  only  by  the  attacks  upon  Lincoln  and  Cleveland. 

In  1828,  in  his  Notions  of  the  Americans,  Cooper  acknowledges  Slavery 
as  an  evil,  but  sees  no  immediate  cure:  "There  is  not  now,  nor  has  there 
ever  been  since  the  separation  of  the  colonies  from  the  mother  country, 
any  power  to  emancipate  the  slaves,  except  that  which  belongs  to  their 
masters." 

Cooper's  latest  views  on  politics  and  on  society  are  to  be  found  in  an  un- 
finished work,  The  Towers  of  Manhattan,  posthumously  printed  in  1864 
in  the  Spirit  of  the  Fair,  a  daily  sheet  published  in  connection  with  the 
Sanitary  Fair.  Starting  with  a  picture  of  the  growth  of  New  York,  he 
proceeds  to  a  comparison  of  London  and  New  York,  which,  he  laments, 
is  not  a  social  capital.  He  then  discusses  the  supreme  necessity  of  preserv- 
ing the  Union,  and  prophesies  that  Slavery  will  disappear  because  it  is 
opposed  to  the  spirit  of  the  age.  His  rejection  of  the  theory  of  State 
Sovereignty  on  the  ground  that  the  people,  not  in  the  popular  sense,  but 
in  their  fundamental  political  authority,  established  the  government  of 
the  United  States  as  the  ultimate  sovereignty,  was  an  early  statement  of  a 
principle  restated  later  by  others. 

Cooper's  greatest  effect  must  have  come  from  his  novels.  His  contest 
against  mediocrity  and  oligarchy  must  have  helped  in  the  fight  for 
democracy  as  he  understood  it.  His  portrait  of  American  life  must  have 
colored  and  determined  the  foreign  view  of  the  United  States  and,  in  a 
larger  political  sense,  must  have  helped  in  giving  a  more  correct  view  of 
our  civilization.  For,  despite  his  fearless  criticisms  of  our  weaknesses,  the 


432  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

general  effect  of  his  greater  novels  was  to  paint  a  favorable  picture  of 
democracy. 


Of  all  our  men  of  letters  in  this  period,  George  Bancroft  was  most 
definitely  a  politician.  In  1838  he  became  the  Collector  of  the  Port  of 
Boston  and  was  recognized  as  the  leader  of  the  Democratic  party  in 
Massachusetts.  In  1844  he  aided  Polk  to  secure  his  nomination  for  the 
Presidency  and  in  consequence  became  Secretary  of  the  Navy.  He 
founded  the  Naval  Academy  in  1845  and,  in  May,  became  Acting  Secre- 
tary of  War,  playing  a  statesmanlike  part  in  the  events  which  the  adminis- 
tration of  Polk  hoped  would  end  in  the  peaceful  acquisition  of  Texas, 
while  preparing  for  the  war  with  A4exico  which  proved  inevitable. 
Bancroft  had  preferred  a  diplomatic  post  and,  in  October,  1846,  he  went 
to  London  as  Envoy  Extraordinary  and  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  Great 
Britain.  His  fundamental  belief  in  the  ultimate  good  judgment  of  the 
people  led  him  to  the  Democratic  party,  and  this  attitude  is  reflected 
clearly  in  his  History  of  the  United  States,  even  if  this  does  conclude 
with  the  ending  of  the  Revolution.  The  analysis  of  the  History  in  the 
chapter  dealing  with  the  literary  historians4  need  not  be  anticipated  here. 

When  Bancroft  returned  to  this  country  he  resumed  his  great  interest 
in  politics  and,  in  his  advice  to  Buchanan  that  the  party  needed  strong 
leadership,  and  in  his  approval  of  Douglas,  he  revealed  his  understanding 
of  the  real  difference  between  the  Democrats  and  their  opponents.  His 
contribution  to  the  cause  of  the  Union  was  direct  in  his  support  of  Lin- 
coln in  1864,  although  he  had  voted  for  Douglas  in  i860.  This  sprang 
from  his  strong  belief  in  the  Union.  He  remained  a  "War  Democrat" 
and,  later,  took  Johnson's  side  in  the  struggle  with  the  radical  wing  of  the 
Republican  party.  Less  directly,  the  History,  as  it  appeared  during  the 
forties,  fifties  and  sixties,  showed  through  its  picture  of  the  growth  of 
the  idea  of  Colonial  Union,  how  essential  this  was  for  the  well-being  of 
the  nation.  Through  Bancroft's  advocacy  of  liberty  he  preached  the 
errors  of  Slavery.  He  showed5  how  efforts  of  several  of  the  colonies  to 
forbid  the  introduction  of  slaves  were  vetoed  by  the  King  of  England, 
and,  later,  how  difficult  it  was  to  obtain  action  by  Congress.  He  called 
attention  to  the  strong  opposition  of  Southerners  like  Jefferson,  George 
Mason,  Patrick  Henry  or  Richard  Henry  Lee  to  Slavery,  and  he  empha- 
sized the  act  of  1782  by  which  more  slaves  were  freed  by  Virginia  than 
by  Pennsylvania  or  Massachusetts,  even  though  in  1780  these  two  com- 
monwealths had  freed  their  slaves. 


See  Chapter  27. 

See  especially  Vol.  X,  Chapter  17. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  433 

Although  not  a  politician,  Hawthorne  held  political  office  frequently. 
Through  the  influence  of  Bancroft,  he  was  given  the  post  of  Weigher 
and  Gauger  in  the  Boston  Custom  House  from  1839  to  1841,  which  he 
lost  when  the  Whigs  came  into  power.  From  1846  to  1849  he  was  Sur- 
veyor of  the  Port  of  Salem  and,  finally,  when  his  college  mate,  Franklin 
Pierce,  became  President  in  1853,  Hawthorne  was  appointed  by  him  to 
the  consulate  at  Liverpool,  which  he  held  until  1857.  These  appointments 
were  made  rather  through  personal  friendships  than  through  Hawthorne's 
service  to  his  party,  with  one  exception.  His  Life  of  Franklin  Pierce, 
published  as  a  campaign  biography,  was  the  most  direct  result  of  his 
party  affiliations.  In  it  he  did  his  best,  with  some  obvious  difficulty,  to 
emphasize  the  qualities  of  leadership  or  at  least  personality,  which  he 
saw  in  his  old  friend.  The  conventional  picture  of  Franklin  Pierce  is  cer- 
tainly at  variance  with  the  description  written  by  Hawthorne  in  Italy, 
in  1859,  and  included  in  his  French  and  Italian  Notebooks. 

That  Hawthorne's  adherence  to  the  party  of  leadership  was  not  acci- 
dental, is  shown  more  than  once  in  his  writings.  His  admiration  for 
Andrew  Jackson  was  keen.  In  his  Life  of  Fierce  he  described  Jackson  as 
"the  illustrious  man  whose  military  renown  was  destined  to  be  thrown 
into  the  shade  by  a  civil  administration,  the  most  splendid  and  powerful 
that  ever  adorned  the  annals  of  our  country."  The  most  interesting  of  his 
political  writings,  however,  is  his  article  "Chiefly  About  War  Matters," 
published  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  for  July  1862.  Here  the  attitude  of  the 
"War  Democrat"  shows  in  his  fair-minded  treatment  of  his  theme— too 
fair-minded  apparently  for  the  editor  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  who  made 
him  omit  certain  passages,  notably  the  description  of  Abraham  Lincoln. 
This  picture  of  Lincoln  was  restored  in  the  Riverside  Edition  of  Haw- 
thorne's works.6  It  is  too  long  for  complete  reproduction  here,  but  Haw- 
thorne's power  of  observation  is  shown  in  the  following  passage: 

The  whole  physiognomy  is  as  coarse  a  one  as  you  would  meet  anywhere  in 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  States;  but  withal,  it  is  redeemed,  illuminated, 
softened,  and  brightened  by  a  kindly  though  serious  look  out  of  his  eyes,  and 
an  expression  of  homely  sagacity,  that  seems  weighted  with  rich  results  of 
village  experience.  A  great  deal  of  native  sense;  no  bookish  cultivation,  no 
refinement;  honest  at  heart,  and  thoroughly  so,  and  yet,  in  some  sort,  sly,— 
at  least,  endowed  with  a  sort  of  tact  and  wisdom  that  are  akin  to  craft,  and 
would  impel  him,  I  think,  to  take  an  antagonist,  in  flank,  rather  than  to  make 
a  bull-run  at  him  right  in  front.  But,  on  the  whole,  I  like  this  sallow,  queer, 
sagacious  visage,  with  the  homely  human  sympathies  that  warmed  it;  and, 
for  my  small  share  in  the  matter,  would  as  lief  have  Uncle  Abe  for  a  ruler 
as  any  man  whom  it  would  have  been  practicable  to  put  in  his  place. 
Immediately  on  his  entrance  the  President  accosted  our  member  of  Congress, 
who  had  us  in  charge,  and,  with  a  comical  twist  of  his  face,  made  some  jocular 
remark  about  the  length  of  his  breakfast.  He  then  greeted  us  all  round,  not 
6  Vol.  12,  pp.  3 10-3 1 1. 


434  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

waiting  for  an  introduction,  but  shaking  and  squeezing  everybody's  hand  with 
the  utmost  cordiality,  whether  the  individual's  name  was  announced  to  him 
or  not.  His  manner  towards  us  was  wholly  without  pretence,  but  yet  had  a 
kind  of  natural  dignity,  quite  sufficient  to  keep  the  forwardest  of  us  from 
clapping  him  on  the  shoulder  and  asking  him  for  a  story. 

It  was  certainly  Hawthorne's  political  creed,  that  of  belief  in  leader- 
ship, which  prompted  this  last  sentence  and  also  his  portrait  of  General 
McClellan.  One  fairly  sees  the  soldier  in  his  but  few  vivid  words.  AlcClellan 
evidently  made  a  very  favorable  impression  on  Hawthorne,  for  in  speak- 
ing of  the  enthusiasm  of  his  soldiers  for  their  commander,  he  says:  "If  he 
is  a  coward,  or  a  traitor  or  a  humbug,  or  anything  less  than  a  brave,  true 
and  able  man,  that  mass  of  intelligent  soldiers  whose  lives  and  honor  he 
had  in  charge,  were  utterly  deceived,  and  so  was  this  present  writer,  for 
they  believed  in  him  and  so  did  I." 

Hawthorne  was  the  only  one  of  the  writers  with  whom  this  chapter 
is  concerned  who  saw  AicClellan  at  the  head  of  his  soldiers,  and  his  pic- 
ture is  therefore  the  most  authoritative. 

Hawthorne's  democracy  was  fundamental.  At  Bowdoin  College,  he 
and  Franklin  Pierce  joined  the  more  democratic  of  the  two  literary 
societies,  just  as  Longfellow  belonged  to  the  more  conservative.  Those 
who  picture  him  as  a  recluse  forget  his  excursions  into  the  country,  where 
in  the  rural  taverns  he  loved  to  talk  to  the  rustics  who  made  the  inn  their 
club.  He  was  quite  as  much  at  home  there  as  at  the  Saturday  Club  in 
Boston.  His  attitude  toward  the  Union  was  also  characteristic.  He  was 
devoted  to  it,  but  it  was  to  the  entire  Union,  North  and  South,  not  to  a 
portion  of  it. 

The  most  direct  effect  of  Hawthorne's  official  duties  in  the  custom 
house  upon  his  fiction  was  to  interrupt  it.  Only  three  stories  were  pub- 
lished during  his  Boston  experience;  only  one  during  his  survey orship  at 
Salem;  and  during  his  consulate  at  Liverpool  nothing  at  all.  The  indirect 
effect  of  his  strong  individualistic  philosophy,  which  led  to  his  adherence 
to  the  party  of  leadership,  probably  caused  his  withdrawal  from  the  com- 
munistic experiment  at  Brook  Farm  and  later  his  satire  of  the  community 
life  in  The  Blithe  dale  Romance.  But  of  even  greater  significance  is  his 
creation  of  Hester  Prynne,  who  had  defied  the  bitter  tyranny  of  the 
small-town  mind.  The  supreme  creation  of  our  fiction,  The  Scarlet  Letter, 
is  a  celebration  of  individual  free  will. 

The  effect  of  this  novel,  however,  or  of  any  of  his  fiction,  upon  the 
course  of  events  must  have  been  of  an  indirect  nature.  The  Life  of  fierce, 
however,  could  easily  have  aided  the  campaign  of  his  friend,  and  the 
Atlantic  article  probably  helped  to  create  a  better  understanding  of  the 
"War  Democrat"  point  of  view. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  435 

Emerson  was  probably  the  best  example  of  a  writer  whose  basic  prin- 
ciples were  at  variance  with  his  party  ties.  His  active  participation  in 
politics  was  limited  to  a  few  speeches  in  1851  for  J.  G.  Palfrey,  the  candi- 
date of  the  Liberty  party  for  Congress.  But  he  had  a  decided  interest  in 
political  affairs,  evidenced  not  only  in  his  essay,  "Politics,"  but  also  in 
many  references  in  his  other  Essays  and  in  his  Joitmals.  In  "Politics," 
delivered  in  his  series  of  lectures  in  1839-40,  he  said: 

Of  the  two  great  parties  which  at  this  hour  almost  share  the  nation  between 
them,  I  should  say  that  one  has  the  best  cause  and  the  other  the  best  men. 
The  philosopher,  the  poet,  or  the  religious  man,  will  of  course  wish  to  cast 
his  vote  with  the  democrat,  for  free-trade,  for  wide  suffrage,  for  the  abolition 
of  legal  cruelties  in  the  penal  code,  and  for  facilitating  in  every  manner  the 
access  of  the  young  and  the  poor  to  the  sources  of  wealth  and  power.  But 
he  can  rarely  accept  the  persons  whom  the  so-called  popular  party  propose 
to  him  as  representatives  of  these  liberalities.  They  have  not  at  heart  the  ends 
which  give  to  the  name  of  democracy  what  hope  and  virtue  are  in  it.  The  spirit 
of  our  American  radicalism  is  destructive  and  aimless:  it  is  not  loving;  it  has 
no  ulterior  and  divine  ends,  but  is  destructive  only  out  of  hatred  and  selfishness. 
On  the  other  side,  the  conservative  party,  composed  of  the  most  moderate,  able 
and  cultivated  part  of  the  population,  is  timid,  and  merely  defensive  of 
property.  It  vindicates  no  right,  it  aspires  to  no  real  good,  it  brands  no  crime, 
it  proposes  no  generous  policy;  it  does  not  build,  nor  write,  nor  cherish  the 
arts,  nor  foster  religion,  nor  establish  schools,  nor  encourage  science,  nor 
emancipate  the  slave,  nor  befriend  the  poor,  or  the  Indian,  or  the  immigrant. 
From  neither  party,  when  in  power,  has  the  world  any  benefit  to  expect  in 
science,  art,  or  humanity,  at  all  commensurate  with  the  resources  of  the  nation.7 

This  analysis  is  flavored  somewhat  by  his  lack  of  knowledge  of  political 
leaders  outside  of  New  England.  When  he  had  to  choose  between  a  leader 
and  an  institution  he  preferred  the  first.  "An  institution  is  the  lengthened 
shadow  of  one  man,"  he  said  in  "Self-Reliance,"  written  between  1838 
and  1840.  Again  in  "The  Conservative,"  delivered  in  Boston  in  1841,  he 
stated  definitely:  "It  will  never  make  any  difference  to  a  hero  what  the 
laws  are."  In  his  lecture  on  "The  Young  American"  in  1844  he  went  as 
far  as  any  Abolitionist  in  attacking  the  Union.  "At  this  moment,"  he  said, 
"the  terror  of  old  people  and  of  vicious  people  is  lest  the  Union  be 
destroyed."  He  was  willing  at  any  time  to  abandon  an  institution  for  a 
principle. 

As  we  look  through  his  Journals  for  his  real  thoughts,  which  he  did 
not  always  print  in  his  published  essays,  we  find  illustrations  of  his  grow- 
ing discontent  with  the  party  of  institutions.  He  objected  especially  to 
the  attempts  at  compromise  with  the  pro-Slavery  elements,  North  or 
South:  "Ah,  thou  damnable  Half-and-Half!  choose,  I  pray  you,  between 

7  Works,  Centenary  Edition,  ed.  Edward  W.  Emerson  (1903-4),  Vol.  3,  pp.  209-210. 


436  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

God  and  the  Whig  Party,  and  do  not  longer  strew  sugar  on  this  bottled 
spider."  s 

He  resented  especially  the  subservience  of  the  New  England  represent- 
atives in  Congress.  In  1850  he  writes  in  the  Journal: 

As  far  as  I  know,  the  misfortune  of  New  England  is,— that  the  Southerner 
always  beats  us  in  politics.  And  for  this  reason,  that  it  comes  at  Washington 
to  a  game  of  personalities.  The  Southerner  has  personality,  has  temperament, 
has  manners,  persuasion,  address  and  terror.  The  cold  Yankee  has  wealth, 
numbers,  intellect,  material  power  of  all  sorts,  but  has  not  fire  or  firmness, 
and  is  coated  and  talked  and  bantered  and  shamed  and  scared  till  he  votes 
away  the  dominion  of  his  millions  at  home!  9 

Again  he  notes:  "The  relation  of  men  of  thought  to  society  is  always 
the  same.  They  abhor  Whiggism,  they  abhor  rebellion.  They  refuse  the 
necessity  of  mediocre  men,  that  is,  to  take  sides."  10 

The  passage  of  the  Fugitive  Slave  Law,  September  18,  1850,  roused 
him  to  fury.  His  resentment  was  due  quite  as  much  to  what  he  believed 
to  be  the  cowardice  of  New  England  and  especially  of  Daniel  Webster, 
in  supporting  the  bill,  as  it  was  to  the  immorality  of  Slavery.  In  the  two 
public  addresses  Emerson  made  on  the  Fugitive  Slave  Law,  one  at  Con- 
cord, May  3,  1 85 1,  and  one  in  New  York  City,  March  7,  1854,  "on  the 
fourth  anniversary  of  Daniel  Webster's  speech  in  favor  of  the  Bill,"  X1 
he  laid  great  stress  on  Webster's  support  of  the  Law.  Emerson's  published 
criticisms  of  Webster,  which  space  forbids  quoting  here,  are  mild  com- 
pared to  those  he  wrote  in  his  Journal  in  1851: 

I  opened  a  paper  today  in  which  he  [Webster]  pounds  on  the  old  strings  in 
a  letter  to  the  Washington's  Birthday  feasters  in  New  York.  "Liberty!  liberty?" 
Pho!  Let  Mr.  Webster,  for  decency's  sake,  shut  his  lips  once  and  forever  on 
this  word.  The  word  liberty  in  the  mouth  of  Mr.  Webster  sounds  like  the 
word  love  in  the  mouth  of  a  courtezan.12 

Emerson's  denunciation  of  Webster  was,  of  course,  unfair.  Webster 
honestly  believed  that  the  preservation  of  the  Union  was  more  important 
than  the  abolition  of  Slavery.  Emerson  took  the  opposite  ground.  In  the 
Journal  for  1851  we  find  him  attacking  the  Union: 

Nothing  seems  to  me  more  bitterly  futile  than  this  bluster  about  the  Union. 
. . .  We  sneak  about  with  the  infamy  of  crime  in  the  streets  and  cowardice 
in  ourselves,  and  frankly  once  for  all,  the  Union  is  sunk,  the  flag  is  hateful, 
and  will  be  hissed. 

"journals  (1845),  ed.  E.  W.  Emerson  and  W.  E.  Forbes  (1909-14),  Vol.  7,  p.  126. 
References  are  to  this  edition. 

9  Journals  (1850),  Vol.  8,  pp.  100-101. 

10  Journals  (1850),  Vol.  8,  pp.  120-121. 

11  Miscellanies,  pp.  177-245. 

12  Journals  (1851),  Vol.  8,  p.  182. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  437 

The  worst  mischiefs  that  could  follow  from  Secession  and  new  combinations 
of  the  smallest  fragments  of  the  wreck  were  slight  and  medicable  to  the 
calamity  your  Union  has  brought  us.13 

During  1852  he  still  continued  to  confide  in  his  Journal  his  opinion  on 
party  differences.  One  passage  is  especially  interesting,  because  it  repre- 
sents his  real  opinion  perhaps  more  truly  than  his  printed  utterances.  It 
is:  "Let  your  elevation  make  you  courteous,  else  your  courtesy  is  paint 
and  varnish.  The  Democrats  are  good-humored— the  Whigs  are  angry 
because  the  Democrat  has  really  the  safe  and  broad  ground.  Let  your 
zeal  for  freedom  proceed  from  grounds  of  character  and  insight  and  you 
can  afford  a  courtesy  which  Webster  cannot  afford."  14 

He  was  attracted  toward  the  Democracy  because  he  sensed  its  founda- 
tion in  leadership— but  he  did  not  quite  see  it  himself,  because  he  was 
not  acquainted  with  the  Southern  leaders,  and  because  the  Democratic 
party  in  the  fifties  was  beginning  to  shift  its  ground  and  become  the 
party  of  institutions. 

To  Emerson,  the  Union  was  an  institution  which  kept  Slavery  alive. 
In  his  "Speech  on  Affairs  in  Kansas"  in  1856,  he  described  the  Union  as 
"a  conspiracy  against  the  Northern  states  which  the  Northern  states  are 
to  have  the  privilege  of  paying  for."  15  As  before  it  was  the  repression 
of  individual  liberty  he  deplored:  "There  is  no  Union.  Can  any  citizen 
of  Massachusetts  travel  in  honor  through  Kentucky  and  Alabama  and 
speak  his  mind?"  16 

It  was  in  this  same  address  that  Emerson  showed  his  insight  into  the 
conditions  which  were  making  a  contest  between  the  two  sections  inevit- 
able. He  appreciated  the  dangers  which  were  threatening— and  said:  "Send 
home  everyone  who  is  abroad,  lest  they  should  find  no  country  to  return 
to.  Come  home  and  stay  at  home,  while  there  is  a  country  to  save."  17 
And  in  the  Journal  for  1856  he  prophesied  that  South  Carolina  would 
attack  as  soon  as  she  was  able  to  do  it.18 

George  Bancroft  in  a  review  of  Holmes'  Life  of  Emerson  recognized 
Emerson's  farsightedness  in  political  affairs  when  he  said:  "Even  after 
the  inauguration  of  Lincoln,  several  months  passed  away  before  his 
Secretary  of  State  or  he  himself  saw  the  future  so  clearly  as  Emerson  had 
foreshadowed  it  in  1856."  19 

In  1862  in  his  speech  delivered  in  Washington  and  printed  in  the 
Atlantic  Monthly  in  April  1862  as  "American  Civilization,"  Emerson 
pointed  out  the  necessity  of  Emancipation:  "Congress  can  by  edict,  as  a 

13  Journals  (1851),  Vol.  8,  pp.  185-186. 

14  Journals  (1852),  Vol.  8,  p.  323. 

15  Miscellanies ,  p.  259. 

16  Miscellanies,  p.  260. 

17  Miscellanies,  p.  263. 

18  Journals  (1856),  Vol.  9,  p.  49. 

19  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  140  (Feb.  1885),  p.  142. 


438  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

part  of  the  military  defence  which  it  is  the  duty  of  Congress  to  provide, 
abolish  slavery  and  pay  for  such  slaves  as  we  ought  to  pay  for." 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  Lincoln,  in  the  Emancipation  Proclamation, 
spoke  of  his  action  as:  "An  act  of  justice,  warranted  by  the  Constitution 
upon  military  necessity. " 

Emerson  naturally  changed  his  point  of  view  concerning  the  payment 
for  the  slaves.  In  his  "Boston  Hymn,"  read  at  the  meeting  in  January, 
1863,  in  Boston,  to  celebrate  the  Emancipation  Proclamation,  he  said: 

Pay  ransom  to  the  owner 

And  fill  the  bag  to  the  brim. 
Who  is  the  owner?  The  slave  is  owner, 

And  ever  was.  Pay  him. 

At  last  after  Lincoln's  election,  Emerson  believed  he  had  found  a  party 
to  suit  him:  "The  country  is  cheerful  and  jocund  in  the  belief  that  it  has 
a  government  at  last.  The  men  in  search  of  a  party,  parties  in  search  of 
a  principle,  interests  and  dispositions  that  could  not  fuse  for  want  of  some 
base,— all  joyfully  unite  in  this  great  Northern  party,  on  the  basis  of 
Freedom."  20  But  by  1862,  he  is  once  more  critical: 

But  our  politics  are  petty  and  expectant.  The  Government  is  paralyzed,  the 
army  paralyzed.  And  we  are  waiters  on  Providence.  Better  for  us,  perhaps, 
that  we  should  be  ruled  by  slow  heads  than  by  bold  ones,  whilst  insight  is  with- 
held. Yet  one  conceives  of  a  head  capable  of  taking  in  all  the  elements  of  this 
problem,  the  blockade,  the  stone  fleet,  the  naval  landing,  insurrection,  English 
ill  will,  French  questionability,  Texas.21 

Again  he  was  looking  for  a  leader.  On  the  occasion  of  his  visit  to 
Washington  in  January  1862  he  was  taken  by  Senator  Sumner  to  visit  the 
officers  of  the  government.  In  his  Journal  is  shown  his  power  to  bring 
statesmen  and  politicians  vividly  before  us.  There  is  a  fair  and  uncon- 
ventional picture  of  Lincoln: 

A  frank,  sincere,  well-meaning  man,  with  a  lawyer's  habit  of  mind,  good  clear 
statement  of  his  fact;  correct  enough,  not  vulgar,  as  described,  but  with  a  sort 
of  boyish  cheerfulness,  or  that  kind  of  sincerity  and  jolly  good  meaning  that 
our  class  meetings  on  Commencement  Days  show,  in  telling  our  old  stories 
over.  When  he  has  made  his  remark,  he  looks  up  at  you  with  great  satisfaction, 
and  shows  all  his  white  teeth,  and  laughs.  He  argued  to  Sumner  the  whole 
case  of  Gordon,  the  slave-trader,  point  by  point,  and  added  that  he  was  not 
quite  satisfied  yet,  and  meant  to  refresh  his  memory  by  looking  again  at 
the  evidence.  All  this  showed  a  fidelity  and  conscientiousness  very  honourable 
to  him.22 

20  Journals  (1861),  Vol.  9,  p.  325. 

21  Journals  (1862),  Vol.  9,  p.  364. 
'--  Journals  (1862),  Vol.  9,  p.  375. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  439 

There  is  also  a  more  unusual  word  picture  of  the  interviews  with 
Stanton,  Chase,  and  Seward.  Emerson  noted  especially  the  way  in  which 
one  politician  manoeuvred  to  force  the  other  to  make  the  first  advances. 
Seward's  complaints  of  the  dilatory  actions  of  Congress,  which  threw 
upon  the  Executive  all  the  responsibility  for  getting  things  done,  has 
quite  a  modern  ring.  As  Emerson  proceeds  with  his  account,  one  cannot 
fail  to  be  impressed  with  his  acuteness,  as  he  passes  from  Seward  to  the 
White  House  for  a  second  visit  and  hears  Lincoln's  reaction  to  the  mes- 
sages from  France  and  Spain,  congratulating  him  on  the  conclusion  of 
the  Trent  affair. 

Emerson's  effect  on  political  thinking  of  his  time  must  have  come 
quite  as  much  from  his  public  addresses  as  from  his  printed  essays.  Some 
of  them  indeed  were  not  printed  until  1884  in  the  Miscellanies.  When  he 
read  the  "Boston  Hymn,"  however,  the  audience  felt  "an  electric  thrill," 
according  to  good  judges  like  John  S.  Dwight.23  Emerson's  addresses 
become  literature  through  the  fact  that  he  was  dealing  with  general 
principles  rather  than  isolated  occurrences  or  grievances  and  through  the 
sheer  force  of  his  wonderful  eloquence.  He  was  perhaps  as  much  emotion- 
ally excited  about  the  Slavery  question  as  he  was  about  anything,  and 
this  emotion  crystallized  his  language  into  permanent  epithets.  Such  sen- 
tences as  these  from  "American  Civilization,"  are  typical:  "There  are 
Scriptures  written  invisibly  on  men's  hearts,  whose  letters  do  not  come 
out  until  they  are  enraged.  They  can  be  read  by  warfires,  and  by  eyes 
in  the  last  peril."  24 

"The  Ode  Sung  in  the  Town  Hall  of  Concord"  (1857)  and  "Volun- 
taries" (1863)  are  connected  with  Emerson's  political  philosophy  only 
in  their  celebration  of  freedom.  But  that,  after  all,  was  his  principal  con- 
cern. A  great  leader  of  the  thought  of  his  day,  he  had  courage  and  fore- 
sight; even  if  he  could  find  no  party  that  had  a  political  leader  he  could 
follow. 


Longfellow's  relation  to  politics  presents  at  first  glance  a  paradox.  He 
was  in  no  sense  a  politician  and,  in  1844,  he  declined  Whittier's  proposal 
that  he  should  accept  a  nomination  to  Congress  on  the  Liberty  Party 
ticket,  saying:  "Though  a  strong  anti-Slavery  man,  I  am  not  a  member 
of  any  society  and  fight  under  no  single  banner."  25  Yet  one  of  his  poems, 
dealing  with  a  political  issue,  had  probably  more  effect  and  will  last 
longer  than  any  written  by  his  contemporaries. 

23  See  Carl  F.  Strauch,  "The  Background  of  Emerson's  Boston  Hymn,"  Amer. 
Lit.,  Vol.  14  (March,  1942),  p.  36-41. 

24  Miscellanies,  p.  303. 

25  Life  of  Henry  Wadsivorth  Longfellow,  ed.  Samuel  Longfellow  (1891),  Vol.  2, 
p.  20.  References  are  to  this  edition  unless  otherwise  noted. 


440  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

In  his  Journals,  he  makes  comparatively  little  reference  to  politics  until 
the  beginning  of  the  Civil  War.  He  voted  with  the  Whigs  in  state  elec- 
tions on  November  12,  1849,  but  supported  Palfrey,  the  Free  Soil  candi- 
date for  Congress.  To  the  cause  of  Abolition,  Longfellow  contributed 
his  Poe?ns  on  Slavery  in  1842.  They  are  not  representative  of  Longfellow 
at  his  best  and,  while  there  are  quotable  lines,  the  poems  as  a  whole  seem 
to  have  been  written  from  a  purely  descriptive  point  of  view.  Yet  one 
of  these,  "The  Witnesses,"  was  republished  in  the  Leeds'  Anti-Slavery 
Series  in  London.  Longfellow  evidently  felt  their  weakness,  for  he 
omitted  them  in  the  Collected  Edition  of  his  poems,  published  by  Carey 
and  Hart,  in  1845.  In  his  Journal  for  February  6,  1846,  he  notes:  "The 
anti-Slavery  papers  attack  me  for  leaving  out  the  'slavery  poems'  in  the 
illustrated  edition.  They  are  rather  savage."  26 

The  omission  was  evidently  at  the  request  of  the  publishers.  But  in 
another  edition,  published  in  1846  by  Harpers,  the  poems  were  restored. 
It  was  characteristic  of  Longfellow  that  when  he  was  confronted  with 
the  choice  between  the  abolition  of  Slavery  and  the  preservation  of  the 
Union,  he  should  take  the  broader  and  more  fundamental  view  of  the 
situation.  The  division  of  feeling  at  the  North  concerning  Slavery  and 
the  difficulties  of  a  liberal  are  illustrated  by  Longfellow's  note  to  Sumner 
stating  that  he  could  now  visit  them  since  Tom  Appleton,  his  brother-in- 
law,  had  departed.27  The  Appleton  family  belonged  to  the  "Cotton 
Whigs,"  or  sympathizers,  for  economic  reasons,  with  the  South.  Long- 
fellow did  not  hesitate  to  criticize  this  attitude. 

During  1849  Longfellow  was  constantly  revising  "The  Building  of 
the  Ship."  2S  The  entire  poem  is  symbolic,  for  the  Master  says: 

To   this   vessel   shall   belong, 
Cedar  of  Maine  and  Georgia  pine 
Here  together  shall  combine, 
A  goodly  frame,  and  a  goodly  fame, 
And  the  Union  be  her  name! 

On  November  1 1,  1849,  it  was  completed.  The  apostrophe  to  the  Union 
with  which  the  poem  closes  is  expressed  with  such  magnificent  simplicity 

2GLife,  Vol.  2,  p.  32. 

27  Letter  to  Sumner,  "Friday,"  July,  1850,  MSS.,  Dana  Collection. 

28  According  to  Mr.  H.  W.  Longfellow  Dana:  "The  earliest  rough  draft  is  dated 
at  the  beginning  'May  23,  1849.'  It  was  continued  on  June  18;  the  date  'Sept.  5,  1849' 
occurs  after  the  sixteenth  stanza;  on  September  20  the  poem  'goes  on';  and  at  the 
end  of  the  twenty-third  stanza  of  this  first  draft  is  written  'finished  Saturday  morning, 
Sept.  22,  1849.'  The  first  draft  however  goes  on  beyond  that  for  another  seven  pages. 
All  this  is  a  rough  draft  in  pencil  in  a  notebook.  There  is  then  a  second  draft  in 
ink  on  blue  paper.  In  this  the  twenty-third  page  contains  the  original  ending  which 
was  later  printed  in  the  Life  by  Samuel  Longfellow.  A  four-page  loose  sheet  of  larger 
size  has  a  pencilled  first  draft  of  the  later  ending  dated  'Nov.  11,  1849.'" 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  441 

and  inevitability  of  phrase  that  it  has  become  itself  a  standard  by  which 
all  similar  poems  must  be  judged: 

Thou,  too,  sail  on,  O  Ship  of  State! 

Sail  on,  O  UNION,  strong  and  great! 

Humanity  with  all  its  fears, 

With  all  the  hopes  of  future  years, 

Is  hanging  breathless  on  thy  fate! 

We  know  what  Master  laid  thy  keel, 

What  Workmen  wrought  thy  ribs  of  steel, 

Who  made  each  mast,  and  sail,  and  rope, 

What  anvils  rang,  what  hammers  beat, 

In  what  a  forge  and  what  a  heat 

Were  shaped  the  anchors  of  thy  hope! 

Fear  not  each  sudden  sound  and  shock, 

'T  is  of  the  wave  and  not  the  rock; 

'T  is  but  the  flapping  of  the  sail, 

And  not  a  rent  made  by  the  gale! 

In  spite  of  rock  and  tempest's  roar, 

In  spite  of  false  lights  on  the  shore, 

Sail  on,  nor  fear  to  breast  the  sea! 

Our  hearts,  our  hopes,  are  all  with  thee, 

Our  hearts,  our  hopes,  our  prayers,  our  tears, 

Our  faith  triumphant  o'er  our  fears, 

Are  all  with  thee,— are  all  with  thee! 

Longfellow  was  reading  Horace  in  January,  1849,  and  the  Ode  XIV, 
"The  Ship  of  State,"  29  "an  anxious  warning,"  may  have  suggested  Long- 
fellow's title.  In  Horace's  Ode  the  mast  is  crippled,  the  yards  are  groaning 
and  the  keel  can  scarcely  stand.  The  pessimistic  note  is  in  direct  contrast 
with  Longfellow's  optimism. 

In  Longfellow's  Journal  for  February  12,  1850,  he  notes: 

In  the  evening  Mrs.  Kemble  read  before  the  Mercantile  Library  Association 

to  an  audience  of  more  than  three  thousand "The  Building  of  the  Ship," 

standing  out  upon  the  platform,  book  in  hand,  trembling,  palpitating,  and 
weeping,  and  giving  every  word  its  true  weight  and  emphasis.  It  was  grandly 
done.  She  prefaced  the  recital  by  a  few  words,  to  this  effect:  that  when  she 
first  saw  the  poem,  she  desired  to  read  it  before  a  Boston  audience;  and  she 
hoped  she  would  be  able  to  make  every  word  audible  to  that  great  multitude. 

The  effect  which  this  British  actress,  carried  away  herself  by  the 
dramatic  value  of  the  poem,  made  upon  an  American  audience  is  only 
faintly  reflected  in  Longfellow's  words. 

One  of  the  most  significant  tributes  to  its  power  was  made  by  Noah 
Brooks,  in  an  article  published  in  Scribnefs  Monthly  for  August  1879, 
entitled   "Lincoln's  Imagination."  Brooks   described  his  reading   of  the 

29  Horace:  Rendered  into  English  Verse,  by  A.  F.  Murison,  pp.  23-24. 


442  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

poem  to  Lincoln  early  in  the  sixties,  and  the  deep  impression  it  made  upon 
the  President.  "He  did  not  speak  for  some  minutes,  but  finally  said, 
with  simplicity;  lIt  is  a  wonderful  gift  to  be  able  to  stir  men  like  that.'  " 

Certainly  it  is  hard  to  overestimate  the  importance  of  the  share  Long- 
fellow played  in  the  building  up  of  an  imaginative  picture  of  the  Union. 
He  was  generally  recognized  as  the  foremost  poet  of  the  nation,  and  to 
millions  of  people  the  word  went  forth  that,  in  spite  of  doubts  and 
dangers,  he  had  not  despaired  of  the  Republic.  Moreover,  his  influence 
helped  in  another  way.  Historians  have  often  remarked  how  strange  it 
was  that  in  the  Civil  War  the  common  people  of  Great  Britain  sympa- 
thized with  the  Union.  We  know  how  widespread  was  the  distribution 
of  Longfellow's  poetry  in  England.  The  late  Professor  Grosvenor  of 
Amherst  related  the  tribute  of  a  British  editor  who  remarked  to  him,  "A 
stranger  can  hardly  have  an  idea  how  familiar  many  of  our  working 
people,  especially  women,  are  with  Longfellow.  Thousands  can  repeat 
his  poems  who  have  never  read  a  line  of  Tennyson  and  probably  never 
heard  of  Browning."  30  Can  anyone  doubt  that  the  apostrophe  to  the 
Union  was  among  the  poems  that  Englishmen  learned  by  heart,  coming 
as  it  did  at  the  end  of  a  poem  about  the  sea. 

In  January  1864,  Bryant  was  asked  by  the  Committee  in  charge  of  the 
Long  Island  Sanitary  Fair  to  contribute  verses  which  would  appeal  to 
the  hearts  of  those  who  had  suffered  in  the  war.  Instead  of  sending  any- 
thing of  his  own  he  copied  a  portion  of  Longfellow's  poem,  saying:  "I 
can  think  of  nothing  more  pertinent  to  this  occasion  than  the  thought 
expressed  in  the  noble  lines  of  Longfellow." 

The  permanent  quality  of  "The  Building  of  the  Ship"  was  recognized 
during  World  War  Two  by  its  inclusion  in  a  message  from  President 
Roosevelt  to  Prime  Minister  Churchill. 

As  the  Civil  War  drew  near,  Longfellow  made  occasional  reference  to 
the  question  of  approaching  trouble.  On  May  18,  i860,  he  noted  Lincoln's 
nomination  for  the  Presidency  in  his  Journal,  without  comment.  31  But 
on  December  3,  he  wrote  "I  hope  the  North  will  stand  firm,  and  not  bate 
one  jot  of  its  manhood.  Secession  of  the  North  from  freedom  would  be 
tenfold  worse  than  secession  of  the  South  from  the  Union." 

Longfellow's  great  interest  in  the  Union  was  shown  in  the  last  stanza 
of  his  poem  "The  Cumberland": 

Ho!  brave  hearts  that  went  down  in  the  seas! 

Ye  are  at  peace  in  the  troubled  stream; 
Ho!  brave  land!  with  hearts  like  these, 

Thy  flag,  that  is  rent  in  twain, 

Shall  be  one  again, 

And  without  a  seam! 

30  Quoted  by  Higginson,  Henry  Wadsworth  Longfellow  (1902),  p.  3. 

31  Life,  Vol.  2,  p.  353. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  443 

The  war  prompted  also  "Killed  at  the  Ford"  and  "Christmas  Bells." 


Whittier  was,  next  to  Bancroft,  the  most  definitely  of  all  the  New 
England  group,  a  practical  politician,  and  was  keenly  ambitious  for  politi- 
cal office  at  the  beginning  of  his  career.  He  wished  to  go  to  Congress, 
and  we  find  him,  according  to  a  letter  written  by  him  to  his  friend,  Edwin 
Harriman,  probably  in  August,  1832,  advocating  a  postponement  of  the 
Congressional  election  in  the  North  Essex  district,  by  playing  off  the  two 
opposing  forces  in  the  Whig  party,  until  after  the  November  trial.  The 
reason  for  this  effort  lay  in  the  fact  that  Whittier  was  not  then  twenty-five 
years  old  and  would  not  reach  that  age  until  December  17,  1832.  He 
hoped  to  slip  in  as  a  compromise  candidate.32  His  sacrifice  in  joining  the 
cause  of  Abolition  was  all  the  greater  because  it  shut  the  doors  of  a 
national  political  opportunity  against  him.  He  was  elected  twice  to  the 
State  Legislature  of  Massachusetts,  but  he  declined  the  second  election 
on  account  of  his  health. 

Whittier  left  the  Whigs  and  helped  to  found  the  Liberty  party.  He 
realized  that  such  a  party  would  have  little  success  at  first  and  he  led  the 
followers  to  support  a  Whig,  Caleb  Cushing,  in  North  Essex,  because 
he  leaned  toward  the  cause  of  Abolition,  while  he  helped  to  elect  a 
Democrat,  Robert  Rantoul,  Jr.,  in  South  Essex,  for  a  similar  reason.33 
The  political  instincts  of  his  youth  led  him  to  separate  from  Abolitionists 
like  Lloyd  Garrison  and  Wendell  Phillips,  who  believed  that  politics 
should  be  avoided  and  that  the  moral  sense  of  the  community  should  be 
aroused.  Whittier  went  on,  year  after  year,  helping  to  elect  members  of 
the  lower  legislative  bodies,  who,  in  their  turn,  could  affect  Congress,  until 
the  time  should  come  when  an  Abolitionist  might  be  elected  to  the 
Senate  or  the  House  of  Representatives.  It  was  an  uphill  fight  against  not 
only  Slavery  but  also  the  commercial  interests. 

Whittier  also  left  the  Whig  party  because  he  was  not  happy  in  the 
party  of  institutions.  His  natural  instinct  was  for  leadership,  but  he  could 
not  join  the  Democrats  for  they  meant  to  him  the  preservation  of  Slavery. 
He  attacked  the  Union  because  he  believed  that  institution  was  keeping 
Slavery  alive.  In  1842,  in  a  letter  to  his  friend,  Sewall,  he  said,  "If  Texas 
is  to  be  added  to  us,— let  us  say  'Disunion  before  Texas,'  "  and  his  poem 
"Texas,"  in  1844,  read  in  its  first  form: 

Make   our    Union   band    a    chain! 
We  will  snap  its  links  in  twain, 
We  will  stand  erect  again. 

32  Samuel  T.  Pickard,  Life  and  Letters  of  John  Greenleaf  Whittier  (1894),  Vol.  1, 
pp.  167-168. 

33  S.  T.  Pickard,  Whittier  as  a  Politician  (1900),  pp.  2-3. 


444  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

In  "A  Word  for  the  Hour,"  in  1861,  he  would  still  have  preferred  to 
give  up  the  Union  rather  than  to  go  to  war  for  it.34 

Useful  as  Whittier's  efforts  in  the  political  field  may  have  been,  his 
best  service  to  his  party  lay  in  his  poetry.  Some  of  his  most  effective  verse 
was  written  with  the  object  of  forcing  the  leaders  of  the  Whig  party  to 
take  a  stand  against  slavery  instead  of  dodging  the  issue.  "Ichabod,"  his 
attack  on  Webster  for  his  support  of  compromise,  ranks  with  Browning's 
"The  Lost  Leader"  in  its  lament  for  the  great  man 

who  might 
Have  lighted  up  and  led  .his  age, 

but  failed  to  do  it.  Like  Emerson's  criticism,  Whittier's  bitter  attack  on 
Webster  was  prompted  by  the  latter's  speech  on  March  7,  1850,  in  sup- 
port of  the  Compromise  Bill  of  Henry  Clay  and  by  his  belief  that  the 
great  Whig  leader  of  New  England  was  a  renegade  to  the  cause  of  hu- 
manity. Years  later,  Whittier,  in  his  poem  "The  Lost  Occasion,"  paid 
a  sincere  tribute  to  Webster,  realizing  that  he  had  known  better  than 
Whittier  what  was  best  for  national  unity.  But  mistaken  as  it  was,  "Icha- 
bod" is  the  finer  poem,  from  the  point  of  view  of  emotional  appeal.  It 
sprang  from  Whittier's  instinctive  love  for  leadership.  All  through  life 
he  was  constantly  writing  verse  tributes  to  those  he  wished  to  honor.  In 
his  Complete  Works,  his  "Personal  Poems,"  written  to  individuals,  num- 
ber sixty-four,  and  his  last  tribute  was  to  Samuel  J.  Tilden,  a  Democrat. 

Whittier's  poetic  appeal  was  not  only  to  the  Whig  politicians,  but  also 
to  the  conscience  of  New  England,  to  shake  off  the  apathy  which  bound 
them  through  financial  and  commercial  connections  with  the  South.  His 
prose  articles  like  "Justice  and  Expediency,"  with  its  statistical  proof  that 
Slavery  did  not  pay,  could  be  disregarded,  but  when  the  issue  of  the 
return  of  fugitive  slaves  was  becoming  urgent,  and  Whittier  rose  to  his 
greatest  height  in  "Massachusetts  to  Virginia,"  the  ringing  appeal  swept 
through  the  North  and  insisted  on  being  heard: 

And  sandy  Barnstable  rose  up,  wet  with  the  salt  sea  spray; 
And  Bristol  sent  her  answering  shout  down  Narragansett  Bay! 
Along  the  broad  Connecticut  old  Hampton  felt  the  thrill, 
And  the  cheer  of  Hampshire's  woodmen  swept  down  from 
Holyoke  Hill. 

The  voice  of  Massachusetts!  Of  her  free  sons  and  daughters, 
Deep  calling  unto  deep  aloud,  the  sound  of  many  waters! 
Against  the  burden  of  that  voice  what  tyrant  power  shall 

stand? 
No  fetters  in  the  Bay  State!  No  slave  upon  her  land! 

Since  the  Civil  War  was  against  his  principles  as  a  member  of  the 
34  Works,  Vol.  3,  p.  218. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  445 

Society  of  Friends,  his  verse  was  turned  into  other  channels,  or  when,  as 
in  "Barbara  Frietchie,"  he  did  celebrate  an  imaginary  incident  of  the  war, 
the  interest  is  not  political.  When  Slavery  was  abolished,  his  stirring 
verses,  "Laus  Deo,"  show  where  his  heart  always  lay. 

When  the  Free  Soil  party  merged  with  other  elements,  into  the  Re- 
publican party,  he  naturally  joined  it,  and  he  voted  for  Lincoln,  as  a 
Presidential  Elector,  both  in  i860  and  1864.  But  his  political  activity 
lessened  in  his  later  years,  and  as  one  of  his  best  biographers  has  put  it: 

Too  old  to  change  his  vote  when  the  reaction  against  the  Republicans  set  in, 
he  yet  felt  the  force  of  the  counter  movement  and  respected  its  best  motives. 
Long  a  partisan,  he  became  in  his  later  years  a  lover  of  the  right  irrespective 
of  party,  a  friend  of  freedom  and  truth  and  honest  dealing  under  any  name.35 


Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  took  practically  no  share  in  party  politics.  His 
position  with  regard  to  the  reform  causes  of  the  day  is  given  clearly  in 
a  letter  he  wrote  in  1846  to  Lowell,  who  had  urged  him  to  take  a  more 
active  share  in  them.  Dr.  Holmes  stated  with  his  usual  clarity,  that  he 
was  not  opposed  to  the  War  with  Mexico,  although  he  thought  it  "a  poor 
quarrel";  that  he  regretted  a  stanza  in  his  Phi  Beta  Kappa  poem,  which 
apparently  reflected  upon  the  Abolitionists,  but  he  expressed  no  interest 
in  the  anti-Slavery  campaign. 

I  believe  that  at  present  you  and  I  cannot  prevent  the  existence  of  slavery.  But 
the  catastrophe  of  disunion  I  believe  we  can  prevent,  and  thus  avert  a  future 
of  war  and  bloodshed  which  is  equally  frightful  to  both  of  us  in  contemplation. 
Can  you  trust  me  that  I  really  believe  this,  or  do  you  confine  all  honest  faith 
and  intelligent  judgment  to  those  who  think  with  you?  Mind  this  one  thing  — 
I  give  these  as  reasons  why  I  did  not  feel  specially  called  upon  to  introduce  the 
subject  of  slavery  in  preference  to  many  others,  but  I  am  glad  there  are  always 
eloquent  men  to  keep  the  moral  sense  of  the  world  alive  on  the  subject.  I 
thought  disunion  the  most  vital  matter  at  present.36 

That  Dr.  Holmes  did  not  refrain  entirely  from  comment  on  political 
personages,  a  poem,  "The  Statesman's  Secret,"  read  by  him  at  a  meeting 
of  the  Mercantile  Library  Association  of  Boston  in  November  1855,  is 
evidence.  It  formed  a  portion  of  a  longer  poem,  "Each  Heart  Hath  Its 
Own  Secret,"  and  it  dealt  with  types  of  humanity  who  cherish  a  secret 
love  or  ambition.  The  "statesman"  was  unquestionably  Webster,  who  is 
pictured  as  having  a  "fatal  dream"  of  a  throne. 

Dr.  Holmes  recognized  apparently  that  the  party  of  institutions  had  no 
wish  to  nominate  a  man  as  great  as  Webster.  How  much  wiser  was  his 
judgment  of  Webster  than  that  of  Whittier  or  Emerson  is  seen  in  his 


36 


George  R.  Carpenter,  John  Greenleaf  Whittier  (1903),  p.  259. 

J.  T.  Morse,  Jr.,  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  (1896),  Vol.  1,  pp.  300-301, 


446  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

poem  on  the  "Birthday  of  Daniel  Webster,  January  18,  1856."  There  is 
here  no  criticism  of  Webster  for  his  compromise  with  the  South;  it  is  an 
elegy  upon  a  great  man,  and  the  closing  stanza  may  have  been  prompted 
by  the  attacks  made  upon  the  statesman: 

In   vain   the   envious   tongue   upbraids, 

His  name  a  nation's  heart  shall  keep 
Till  morning's  latest  sunlight  fades 

On  the  blue  tablet  of  the  deep.37 

With  the  Civil  War,  Dr.  Holmes  became  one  of  the  most  prolific  of 
poets,  twenty-four  poems  at  least  being  written  by  him.  Several  were 
hymns,  like  "The  Army  Hymn"  or  "Union  and  Liberty,"  which  seem 
not  to  have  caught  the  fancy  of  those  for  whom  they  were  written.  His 
verses  were  patriotic  rather  than  political.  "The  Voice  of  the  Loyal 
North,"  read  at  his  class  dinner,  January  3,  1861,  has  some  striking  phrases, 
like: 

God  help  them  if  the  tempest  swings 
The  pine  against  the  palm. 

but  the  total  effect  is  hardly  distinguished.  The  best  of  his  poems  dealing 
with  the  war  are  the  noble  memorial  verses  "To  John  and  Robert  Ware," 
and  the  most  interesting  in  some  ways  is  his  satire  "The  Sweet  Little  Man, 
Dedicated  to  Our  Stay-at-Home  Rangers." 

In  October,  1861,  at  a  time  when  disappointment  over  the  first  battle 
of  Bull  Run  was  keen,  Dr.  Holmes  published  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly 
"The  Wormwood  Cordial  of  History,"  an  article  which  has  not  been  re- 
printed in  his  Collected  Works.  It  has,  however,  a  special  interest  because 
of  its  emphasis  upon  the  necessity  of  a  strong  executive  in  time  of  war, 
and  the  belief  that  a  sudden  successful  attack  by  the  enemy  at  the  be- 
ginning of  a  war  might  be  on  the  whole  a  good  thing  to  unify  the  na- 
tion. 

On  July  4,  1863,  Dr.  Holmes  delivered  an  Oration  before  the  City  Au- 
thorities of  Boston,  printed  as  a  pamphlet  in  1863  and  reprinted  as  "The 
Inevitable  Trial,"  in  Pages  from  an  Old  Volume  of  Life.  It  is  political  in 
the  larger  sense,  for  it  is  an  eloquent  plea  for  the  Union,  at  a  time  of 
discouragement.  His  main  thesis  was  that  the  war  was  inevitable,  but  he 
erred  in  believing  that  Slavery  was  the  main  cause,  rather  than  the  pres- 
ervation of  the  Union. 

Dr.  Holmes'  general  political  philosophy,  that  of  the  party  of  institu- 
tions, is  shown  in  his  statement  that  "if  any  institution  or  statute  is  a  viola- 
tion of  the  sovereign  law  of  God,"  it  is  to  be  expected  that  those  who 
believe  it  is  wrong  will  try  to  get  rid  of  it.  His  criticism  of  the  South 
rested  on  his  opinion  that  "they  breed  a  superior  order  of  men  for  leaders, 

37  Poetical  Works,  Vol.  1,  p.  246. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  447 

an  ignorant  commonalty  ready  to  follow  them  as  vassals  of  feudal  times 
follow  their  lords— and  a  race  of  bondsmen."  This  would  imply  that  the 
party  of  leadership  had  no  attraction  for  him.  Yet  later  on  in  the  address 
he  said,  "We  want  the  virile  energy  of  determination  which  made  the 
oath  of  Andrew  Jackson  sound  so  like  the  devotion  of  an  ardent  saint 
that  the  recording  angel  might  have  entered  it  unquestioned  among  the 
prayers  of  the  faithful."  The  climax  of  the  address  is  a  bugle  call  to  those 
who  "are  frightened  by  the  money  we  have  spent,"  to  the  timid  and  the 
neutral  to  forget  their  fears  and  "in  the  name  of  outraged  honor,  in  the 
interest  of  violated  sovereignty,  for  the  life  of  an  imperilled  nation,  for 
the  sake  of  men  everywhere  and  of  our  common  humanity,  for  the  glory 
of  God,  to  stand  by  their  country  through  good  and  through  evil  report 
until  victory  comes."  While  Dr.  Holmes  was  speaking  these  words  the 
great  victories  of  Gettysburg  and  Vicksburg  were  being  won. 

These  two  prose  utterances  and  the  shrewd  observations  concerning 
political  events  which  he  included  in  his  letters  written  during  the  sixties 
to  John  Lothrop  Motley,  prove  that  Dr.  Holmes  might  have  taken  a  more 
prominent  part  in  political  expression  during  the  forties  and  fifties  had  he 
chosen  to  do  so.  But  his  energies  were  then  turned  in  other  directions, 
in  his  attack  on  what  he  thought  to  be  outworn  theological  doctrines,  or 
in  his  attempted  reforms  in  medical  practice.  In  these  efforts  he  felt  he 
was  of  more  service,  and  perhaps  he  was  right. 


Lowell  was  an  independent  in  politics,  especially  at  the  beginning  and 
at  the  close  of  his  career.  His  interest  in  politics  was  constant  and  keen. 
But  he  declined  to  run  for  office,  although  he  accepted  diplomatic  ap- 
pointments at  the  hands  of  President  Hayes,  to  the  Spanish  and  to  the 
English  Missions.  He  also  served  as  a  Presidential  Elector  on  the  Hayes 
ticket  in  1876. 

Lowell's  interest  in  politics  resulted  in  more  published  contributions  to 
literature  than  were  produced  by  any  other  of  the  writers  who  have  been 
treated  in  this  discussion.  In  the  edition  of  his  works,  which  he  supervised 
in  1890,  there  are  fifteen  essays  or  addresses  classed  as  "Political."  38  Both 
series  of  the  Biglow  Fapers,  twenty  in  all,  had  their  inspiration  in  politics, 
local  or  national,  and  five  other  poems  dealt  with  the  Civil  War.  He  also 
reprinted  in  this  edition  twenty-six  poems,  originally  dealing  with  Slavery, 
which  at  the  time  the  verses  were  written  was  a  political  issue.  In  their 
revised  form  eleven  of  these  no  longer  refer  to  Slavery  but  deal  with 
freedom  in  general.  Lowell  did  not  include  in  his  authorized  edition, 
fifty-five  prose  articles,  published  in  the  Pennsylvania  Freeman  or  the 
National  Anti-Slavery  Standard.  Yet  they  contain  some  of  his  most  bril- 

38  This  title  is  preserved  in  the  Elmwood  Edition,  to  which  references  are  made 
in  this  history. 


448  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

liant  political  satire.  These  have  fortunately  been  reprinted.39  He  also 
omitted  four  of  his  essays  printed  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  or  the  North 
American  Review  as  well  as  minor  editorials.  Finally,  there  are  nineteen 
poems,  published  originally  in  the  National  Anti-Slavery  Standard,  which 
have  not  been  reprinted,  and  four  articles  in  the  London  Daily  News, 
written  in  1846.  Altogether  there  are  seventy-four  poems  and  seventy- 
eight  prose  articles  which  owed  their  inspiration  to  his  interest  in  political 
and  public  affairs.40 

In  1843,  Lowell  wrote  to  G.  B.  Loring:  "As  for  the  two  great  parties 
which  divide  this  country  I  for  one  dare  to  say  that  democracy  does 
belong  to  neither  of  them, ...  so  I  care  not  which  whips.  .  . .  The  Aboli- 
tionists are  the  only  ones  with  whom  I  sympathize  of  the  present  extant 
parties."  41 

Lowell's  interest  in  the  Abolition  movement  became  definite  after  his 
engagement  to  an  ardent  anti-Slavery  champion,  Maria  White,  in  1840. 
In  1844,  he  was  a  delegate  to  the  New  England  Anti-Slavery  Convention 
and,  after  his  marriage  in  December,  1844,  he  became  a  contributor  to 
the  Pennsylvania  Fre email  and  the  Anti-Slavery  Standard.  Lowell  threw 
himself  heart  and  soul  into  the  movement,  but  it  remains  a  distinct  stratum 
in  his  career  and  it  was  his  perennial  interest  in  the  cause  of  freedom  of  all 
kinds  that  led  him  into  the  anti-Slavery  ranks.  This  is  illustrated  by  one 
of  his  greatest  poems,  "The  Present  Crisis,"  published  in  the  Boston 
Courier,  December  11,  1845.  While  the  slave  is  referred  to  clearly,  the 
attack  is  upon  slavery  everywhere  and  the  climax  of  the  poem  could  refer 
to  any  situation,  even  one  of  today: 

Once  to  every  man  and  nation  comes  the  moment  to  decide, 

In  the  strife  of  Truth  with  Falsehood,  for  the  good  or  evil  side; 

Some  great  cause,  God's  new  Messiah,  offering  each  the  bloom 

or  blight, 
Parts  the  goats  upon  the  left  hand,  and  the  sheep  upon  the  right, 
And  the  choice  goes  by  forever  'twixt  that  darkness  and  that  light. 

Hast  thou  chosen,  O  my  people,  on  whose  party  thou  shalt  stand, 
Ere  the  Doom  from  its  worn  sandals  shakes  the  dust  against  our 

land? 
Though  the  cause  of  Evil  prosper,  yet  't  is  Truth  alone  is  strong, 
And,  albeit  she  wander  outcast  now,  I  see  around  her  throng 
Troops  of  beautiful,  tall  angels,  to  enshield  her  from  all  wrong. 

39  The  Anti-Slavery  Papers  of  James  Russell  Lowell,  ed.  W.  E.  Charming  (1902), 
2  vols. 

40  For  the  Daily  News  articles,  see  Horace  E.  Scudder's  Life  of  Lowell  (1901),  Vol. 
1,  pp.  186-189. 

11  Letters  of  James  Russell  Lowell,  ed.  C.  E.  Norton,  Vol.  1,  p.  43.  References  are 
to  this  edition. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  449 

Backward  look  across  the  ages  and  the  beacon-moments  see, 
That,  like  peaks  of  some  sunk  continent,  jut  through  Oblivion's 

sea; 
Not  an  ear  in  court  or  market  for  the  low  foreboding  cry 
Of  those  Crises,  God's  stern  winnowers,  from  whose  feet  earth's 

chaff  must  fly; 
Never   shows    the    choice    momentous    till    the    judgment    hath 

passed  by. 

Careless  seems  the  great  Avenger;  history's  pages  but  record 
One  death-grapple  in  the  darkness  'twixt  old   systems  and  the 

Word; 
Truth  forever  on  the  scaffold,  Wrong  forever  on  the  throne,— 
Yet  that  scaffold  sways  the  future,  and,  behind  the  dim  unknown, 
Standeth  God  within  the  shadow,  keeping  watch  above  his  own. 

It  is  the  universal  quality  which  lifts  this  and  other  poems  of  Lowell 
far  above  the  average  literary  utterance  of  the  Abolitionists.  It  is  also 
the  reason  the  first  of  The  Biglonjo  Papers,  published  in  the  Boston 
Courier,  June  17,  1846,  with  its  stirring  appeal  to  the  conscience  of  New 
England,  still  needs  no  annotation: 

Massachusetts,    God   forgive   her, 

She's  akneelin'  with  the  rest, 
She  thet  ough'  to  ha'  clung  ferever 

In  her  grand  old  eagle-nest; 
She  thet  ough'  to  stand  so  fearless 

W'ile  the  wracks  are  round  her  hurled, 
Holdin'  up  a  beacon  peerless 

To  the  oppressed  of  all  the  world! 

Almost  as  good  are:  "What  Mr.  Robinson  Thinks";  "The  Debate  in  the 
Sennit,"  voicing  Lowell's  indignation  at  the  attitude  of  John  C.  Calhoun 
toward  the  Northern  Senators;  and  "A  Letter  from  a  Candidate  for  the 
Presidency,"  published  in  June,  1848. 

The  remaining  papers  of  the  First  Series  fail  to  be  as  convincing  as 
they  were  at  the  time  of  their  publication.  The  "Birdofredom  Sawin'  " 
verses  need  too  much  explaining  in  their  local  allusions.  The  significance 
of  The  Biglow  Papers  lay  in  their  turning  the  tables  on  those  who  had 
tried  to  laugh  the  Abolitionists  out  of  court.  Frequently  their  vehemence 
had  made  them  fit  subjects  to  cause  a  smile,  but  Lowell  turned  his  satiric 
blasts  on  that  part  of  the  Whig  party  which  truckled  to  the  slave  power, 
and  made  it  ridiculous.  The  First  Series  of  The  Biglow  Papers  also  con- 
tained Lowell's  most  definite  statements  concerning  the  dissolution  of  the 
Union.  He  had  made  a  guarded  reference  to  it  in  his  poem  "On  the 
Capture  of  Certain  Fugitive  Slaves  near  Washington,"  in  July,  1845,  but 
in  The  Biglow  Papers  the  first  paper  ended: 


45o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Ef  I'd  my  way  I  hed  ruther 

We  should  go  to  work  an'  part, 
They  take  one  way,  we  take  t'other, 

Guess  it  wouldn't  break  my  heart; 
Man  hed  ough'  to  put  asunder 

Them  thet  God  has  noways  jined; 
An'  I  shouldn't  gretly  wonder 

Ef  there's  thousands  o'  my  mind. 

Lowell,  however,  was  never  as  rabid  an  Abolitionist  as  Whittier  and, 
in  a  letter  to  C.  F.  Briggs,  in  1848,  he  said:  "I  do  not  agree  with  the 
Abolitionists  in  their  dis-union  and  non-voting  theories."  42 

In  a  letter  to  S.  H.  Gay  in  June,  1846,  Lowell  wrote:  "I  had  rather  give 
the  cause  one  good  poem  than  one  thousand  indifferent  prose  articles." 

But  for  our  purpose  his  prose  is  quite  as  significant  as  his  verse  for  it 
reveals  his  political  philosophy  more  directly.  His  traditions  led  him  to 
the  Whigs,  but  his  instincts  turned  him  in  the  direction  of  the  party  of 
leadership.  Consequently,  his  keenest  shafts  were  directed  against  the 
cowardice,  as  he  described  it,  of  the  Whig  party  in  not  taking  a  firm 
stand  on  Slavery.  In  his  article  on  the  annexation  of  Texas  he  said:  "The 
system  of  labor  and  of  its  reward  at  the  North  we  sincerely  believe  to  be 
but  little  better  than  that  at  the  South."  43 

Like  Emerson  and  Whittier  he  looked  for  leadership  to  Daniel  Webster 
and  he  was  disappointed.  In  his  article  on  Webster  44  he  asked:  "How  far 
might  not  that  trumpet  voice  have  reached,  in  behalf  of  the  oppressed, 
from  the  commanding  position  conceded  to  his  powerful  intellect!  . . . 
Shall  not  the  Recording  Angel  write  Ichabod  after  the  name  of  this  man 
in  the  great  book  of  Doom?" 

It  is  an  interesting  fact  that  Lowell  used  in  1846  the  title  of  one  of 
Whittier's  finest  poems,  written  in  1850.  And  later  in  his  article  "What 
Will  Mr.  Webster  Do?"  45  Lowell  said:  "The  people  are  fast  awakening 
to  great  principles;  what  they  want  is  a  great  man  to  concentrate  and 
intensify  their  diffuse  enthusiasm." 

Lowell  was  naturally  disheartened  when  the  Whig  party  nominated 
General  Zachary  Taylor.  He  had  expressed  himself  vigorously  on  May 
1 1,  1848,40  concerning  the  policy  of  nominating  men  who  had  no  known 
opinions.  His  cleverness  was  shown  in  the  same  article  when  he  spoke 
of  the  only  Whig  candidates  who  won  the  Presidency: 

42  Letters,  Vol.  1,  p.  173. 

43  "Texas,"  Pe?insylvania  Freeman,  Jan.  30,  1845.  Rep.  in  Anti-Slavery  Papers,  Vol. 
1,  pp.  9-10. 

*4  "Daniel  Webster,"  National  Anti-Slavery  Standard,  July  2,  1846.  Rep.  in  Anti- 
Slavery  Papers,  Vol.  1,  pp.  35-43. 

ir>  National  Anti-Slavery  Standard,  July  13,  1848.  Rep.  in  Anti-Slavery  Papers,  Vol. 
1,  pp.  108-115. 

4(i  "Presidential  Candidates,"  National  Anti-Slavery  Standard,  May  11,  1848.  Rep.  in 
Ami-Slavery  Papers,  Vol.  1,  pp.  60-61. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  451 

General  Harrison,  it  is  understood,  was  surrounded  by  a  cordon  sanitaire  of 
a  committee.  No  prisoner  in  Spielberg  was  ever  more  cautiously  deprived  of 
the  use  of  writing  materials. 


General  Taylor's  claims  may  be  very  shortly  summed  up.  He  is  a  general, 
a  slaveholder  and  nobody  knows  what  his  opinions  are. 

After  Taylor  had  received  the  nomination  of  the  Whigs,  Lowell  ex- 
pressed himself  even  more  vigorously  in  "The  Nominations  for  the 
Presidency":  "One  can  hardly  conceive  of  so  many  and  so  great  virtues 
combined  except  in  an  epitaph  or  an  obituary.  It  may  safely  be  con- 
ceded that  so  perfect  a  character  could  never  have  been  formed  except 
under  the  fostering  influence  of  slavery."  47 

Lowell's  political  sagacity  was  shown  in  his  article  "The  Course  of 
the  Whigs."  The  party  was  jubilant  over  its  victory,  but  Lowell  knew 
better.  "We  think  the  Whig  Party  has  overreached  itself,"  he  wrote.  "It 
has  gained  a  momentary  advantage  at  the  cost  of  its  existence."  4S  His 
prophecy  came  true— no  Whig  again  crossed  the  threshold  of  the  White 
House.  In  this  same  article  Lowell  said:  "The  Whigs  have  no  positive 
principle  to  give  them  coherence"  and  he  might  have  added,  no  institu- 
tion to  defend.  Consequently  Lowell  voted  in  1850  for  a  "Union  Ticket 
(half  free-soil,  half  Democrat),"  in  order  to  overthrow  "the  Whig 
domination."  49 

When  the  Republican  party  was  born,  Lowell  greeted  it  with  en- 
thusiasm, for  he  believed  it  was  founded  upon  the  principle  of  Free  Soil. 
He  used  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  of  which  he  became  editor  in  1857,  as  a 
vehicle  for  the  attack  upon  Buchanan's  administration'  for  its  lack  of 
vigor.  The  quality  which  lifts  Lowell's  political  writings  above  the 
thousands  which  have  been  forgotten,  is  illustrated  in  this  article,  "Mr. 
Buchanan's  Administration,"  published  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  for  April, 
1858.  It  was  begun  by  Parke  Godwin,  but  as  we  pass  to  the  portion 
written  by  Lowell 50  there  is  an  increase  in  the  vigor,  and  one  feels  an 
imagination  playing  upon  facts  which  is  absent  in  the  earlier  portion  of 
the  article. 

"The  Election  in  November,"  published  in  the  Atlantic  Monthly  in 
October,  i860,  illustrates  Lowell's  power  of  analysis  of  the  relative  posi- 
tions of  the  parties  from  his  point  of  view.  While  the  writing  is  at  times 
brilliant,  this  essay  also  reveals  Lowell's   temporary   lack   of  foresight, 

47  National  Anti-Slavery  Standard,  June  22,  1848.  Rep.  in  Anti-Slavery  Papers, 
Vol.  1,  p.  95. 

48  National  Anti-Slavery  Standard,  Jan.  11,  1849.  Rep.  in  Anti-Slavery  Papers,  Vol. 
2,  p.  95. 

49  Letter  to  S.  A.  Gay.  Letters,  Vol.  1,  p.  253. 

50  Lowell's  portion  begins  in  the  middle  of  the  first  column,  p.  754.  It  was  not 
reprinted. 


452  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

which  he  shared  incidentally  with  a  large  majority  of  his  fellow  citizens. 
It  seems  strange  to  read  today  some  of  his  statements: 

We  do  not  see  how  the  particular  right  of  whose  infringement  we  hear  so 
much,  is  to  be  made  safer  by  the  election  of  Mr.  Bell,  Mr.  Breckenridge,  or 
Mr.  Douglas,  there  being  quite  as  little  chance  that  any  of  them  would  abolish 
human  nature  as  that  Mr.  Lincoln  would  abolish  slavery.51 

"E  Pluribus  Unum,"  appearing  in  the  Atlantic  for  February,  1861,  is 
an  able  exposition  of  the  opinions  of  those  who  believed  in  a  strong 
central  government.  Lowell  was  coming  out  of  the  Slavery  dispute  into 
the  broader  field  of  Union  and  disunion.  "Slavery,"  he  says,  "is  no  longer 
the  matter  in  debate,  and  we  must  beware  of  being  led  off  upon  that 
side-issue."  52 

When  Lowell  transferred  his  editorial  interest  to  the  North  American 
Review  in  January,  1864,  he  published  an  estimate  of  Lincoln  in  "The 
President's  Policy,"  which  appears  now  in  the  Political  Essays  as  "Abra- 
ham Lincoln,"  with  a  short  addition  written  after  Lincoln's  death. 
Lowell's  estimate  of  Lincoln  was  fair  and  just.  He  recognized  that 
Lincoln's  task  "was  one  of  peculiar  and  exceptional  difficulty."  53  He 
realized  that  what  was  needed  to  preserve  the  Union  was  a  great  leader. 
The  essay  is  studded  with  quotable  passages,  such  as: 

The  cautious,  but  steady,  advance  of  his  policy  during  the  war  was  like  that 
of  a  Roman  army.  He  left  behind  him  a  firm  road  on  which  public  confidence 
could  follow;  he  took  America  with  him  where  he  went;  what  he  gained  he 
occupied,  and  his  advanced  posts  became  colonies.54 


The  imputation  of  inconsistency  is  one  to  which  every  sound  politician  and 
every  honest  thinker  must  sooner  or  later  subject  himself.  The  foolish  and 
the  dead  alone  never  change  their  opinion.55 

The  final  passage  was  an  eloquent  tribute,  to  be  outdone  only  by 
Lowell's  own  poetic  portrait  of  Lincoln  in  the  "Harvard  Commemora- 
tion Ode." 

Lowell's  political  essays  are  always  best  when  he  is  dealing  with  a  large 
issue,  as  in  this  essay,  or  in  "The  Rebellion,"  published  in  the  North 
America?!  Review  for  July,  1864.  But  in  the  articles  on  strictly  political 
issues  of  the  moment,  like  "General  McClellan's  Report,"  or  "A^cClellan 
or  Lincoln,"  he  shows  definite  partisan  bias  and  is  quite  unfair  to  the 
ablest  general  the  North  possessed.  In  "Reconstruction,"  published  in 
April,  1865,  Lowell  mingles  curious  ideas  concerning  confiscation  of 
Southern  property  with  broadminded  statements.  These  papers  on  Re- 

51  Political  Essays,  Elmwood  Edition,  p.  37. 

52  Political  Essays,  p.  86. 

53  Political  Essays,  pp.  227-228. 

54  Political  Essays,  p.  239. 

55  Political  Essays,  pp.  240-241. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  453 

construction  fall  below  Lowell's  high  standard,  being  too  greatly  colored 
by  his  party  feeling.  The  last  of  his  articles  to  deal  directly  with  the  Civil 
War  was  "A  Look  Before  and  After."  5G 

Lowell's  poetry  during  the  Civil  War  dealt  generally  with  national 
rather  than  sectional  themes.  He  revived  Hosea  Biglow  and  in  February, 
1862,  appeared  "Mason  and  Slidell:  A  Yankee  Idyll,"  the  best  of  the 
Second  Series.  The  seizure  by  Captain  Wilkes,  commander  of  the  San 
Jacinto,  of  Mason  and  Slidell,  two  Confederate  envoys,  from  the  British 
mail  steamer  Trent  in  October,  1861,  had  caused  great  excitement  in 
both  countries.  The  British  Government  demanded  immediate  return  of 
the  envoys,  although  they  had  been  informed  by  their  highest  legal  au- 
thority that  their  position  was  untenable,  in  view  of  their  own  conduct 
through  many  years.  Lincoln  gave  the  envoys  back,  obviously  not  wish- 
ing a  war  with  England.  Lowell  voiced  the  general  indignation  in  the 
biting  phrases  with  which  he  characterized  the  British  policy.  There  is 
a  little  too  much  introduction,  but  when  "Jonathan  to  John"  finally  be- 
gins, the  spirit  of  the  nation  seems  to  be  speaking  through  the  words. 
Three  of  the  fourteen  stanzas  will  illustrate  how  the  poem  rises  into 
prophecy  at  the  close: 

We   know   we've   got   a   cause,   John, 

Thet's  honest,  just,  an'  true; 
We  thought  't  would  win  applause,  John, 
Ef  nowheres  else,  from  you. 
Ole  Uncle  S.  sez  he,  'I  guess 
His  love  of  right,'  sez  he, 
'Hangs  by  a  rotten  fibre  o'  cotton: 
There's  natur'  in  J.  B., 
Ez  wal'z  in  you  an'  me!' 

Shall  it  be  love,  or  hate,  John? 

It's  you  thet's  to  decide; 
Ain't  your  bonds  held  by  Fate,  John, 
Like  all  the  world's  beside? 
Ole  Uncle  S.  sez  he,  'I  guess 
Wise  men  forgive,'  sez  he, 
'But  not  for  git;  an'  some  time  yit 
Thet  truth  may  strike  J.  B. 
Ez  wal  ez  you  an'  me!' 

God  means  to  make  this  land,  John, 

Clear  thru,  from  sea  to  sea 
Believe  an'  understand,  John, 

The  wuth  o'  bein'  free. 

56  North  Amer.  Review  (Jan.,  1869).  The  portion  from  p.  260  is  by  Lowell.  See 
Bibliography  by  G.  W.  Cooke,  p.  35. 


454  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Ole  Uncle  S.  sez  he,  'I  guess, 
God's  price  is  high,'  sez  he; 
'But  nothin'  else  than  wut  He  sells 
Wears  long,  an'  thet  J.  B. 
May  larn,  like  you  an'  me!' 

Nearly  all  of  the  remaining  Biglow  Papers  are  now  hard  reading,  being 
grotesque  in  too  ridiculous  a  fashion.  The  sixth  paper,  "Sunthin'  in  the 
Pastoral  Line,"  which  reveals  again  Lowell's  interest  in  nature  is  much 
better  than  his  "A  Message  of  Jeff  Davis  in  Secret  Session."  The  "Latest 
Views  of  Mr.  Biglow,"  published  in  February,  1863,  urges  the  necessity 
of  action,  and  Andrew  Jackson  is  held  up  as  the  model  who  would  have 
done  things.  Outside  of  The  Biglow  Papers,  Lowell  wrote  only  a  few 
poems  which  he  classified  as  referring  to  the  Civil  War.  "Memoriae 
Positum,"  on  the  death  of  Robert  Gould  Shaw,  is  a  noble  ode.  But  the 
greatest  poetic  utterance  of  Lowell,  the  "Ode  Recited  at  the  Harvard 
Commemoration,"  delivered  July  21,   1865,  rises  above  politics. 

After  the  Civil  War  Lowell  grew  restive  at  the  elements  that  con- 
trolled the  Republican  party.  As  a  delegate  to  the  National  Convention 
in  1876  he  helped  to  defeat  Blaine  for  the  nomination  and  he  presided  at 
a  meeting  to  purge  the  party  of  the  corruption  of  the  Grant  regime.  He 
declined,  however,  the  offer  of  a  nomination  for  Congress  in  the  same 
year,  although  he  was  told  that  he  was  the  only  candidate  with  whom 
the  Republicans  could  carry  the  district.57 

His  acceptance  of  the  post  of  Presidential  Elector  on  the  Hayes  ticket 
placed  him  in  a  position  in  which  he  might  have  changed  history.  It  is 
now  generally  recognized  that  Tilden  was  elected.  He  received  at  least 
203  electoral  votes  to  166  for  Hayes,  and  had  a  popular  plurality  of 
250,000.  But  the  canvassing  boards  in  the  states  of  Florida,  South  Carolina 
and  Louisiana  manipulated  the  votes  and  returned  majorities  for  Hayes. 
Ultimately  the  Electoral  Commission  decided  by  a  strict  party  vote  of 
eight  to  seven  that  Tilden  had  received  184  votes  and  Hayes  185.  The 
Electors  are  not  bound  by  the  Constitution  to  vote  for  the  party's  choice, 
and  Lowell  was  appealed  to  by  those  who  believed  Tilden  had  been 
elected,  to  vote  for  him.  His  own  words  explain  why  he  did  not  do  so: 

There  was  a  rumor,  it  seems,  that  I  was  going  to  vote  for  Tilden.  But,  in  my 
own  judgment,  I  have  no  choice,  and  am  bound  in  honor  to  vote  for  Hayes, 
as  the  people  who  chose  mc  expected  me  to  do.  They  did  not  choose  me 
because  they  had  confidence  in  my  judgment,  but  because  they  thought  they 
knew  what  that  judgment  would  be.  If  1  had  told  them  that  I  should  vote 
for  Tilden,  they  would  never  have  nominated  me.  It  is  a  plain  question  of 
trust.  The  provoking  part  of  it  is  that  I  tried  to  escape  nomination  all  I  could, 
and  only  did  not  decline  because  I  thought  it  would  be  making  too  much  fuss 
over  a  trifle s 

57  Letter  to  C.  E.  Norton,  August  21,  1876.  Letters,  Vol.  2,  p.  403. 

58  Letters,  Vol.  2,  pp.  408-409. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  45 5 

During  his  term  as  Minister  to  Great  Britain  he  spoke  on  "Democracy," 
the  occasion  being  his  inaugural  address  on  assuming  the  presidency  of 
the  Birmingham  and  Midland  Institute,  on  October  6,  1884.  This  address 
still  remains  one  of  the  fundamental  expressions  of  the  best  kind  of 
American  political  philosophy.  He  was  explaining  to  a  foreign  country 
the  real  meaning  of  our  democracy  as  a  liberal  understands  it.  He  showed 
how  the  dire  prophecies  of  those  who  opposed  the  abolition  of  property 
qualifications  for  voting  in  Massachusetts  had  come  to  nothing,  and  then 
proceeded  to  analyze  the  inevitable  growth  of  a  broader  understanding, 
on  the  part  of  the  privileged  classes,  of  the  rights  of  the  common  man. 
The  address  is  studded  with  some  of  his  best  epigrams: 

Formerly  the  immense  majority  of  men— our  brothers— knew  only  their 
sufferings,  their  wants,  and  their  desires.  They  are  beginning  now  to  know 
their  opportunity  and  their  power.59 


It  is  only  by  instigation  of  the  wrongs  of  men  that  what  are  called  the  Rights 
of  Man  become  turbulent  and  dangerous.60 


Not  a  change  for  the  better  in  our  human  housekeeping  has  ever  taken  place 
that  wise  and  good  men  have  not  opposed  it.61 


Theodore  Parker  said  that  "Democracy  meant  not  'I'm  as  good  as  you  are,' 
but  'You're  as  good  as  I  am.' "  62 

He  then  explained  the  underlying  policies  of  the  framers  of  the  Con- 
stitution, and  the  necessity  of  the  compromises  that  secured  its  adoption. 
He  met  the  fears  of  those  who  depended  upon  property  rights  by  asking: 
"Is  it  not  the  best  security  for  anything  to  interest  the  largest  possible 
number  of  persons  in  its  preservation  and  the  smallest  in  its  division?"  63 

He  paid  his  respects  both  to  Congress  and  Parliament  in  a  pointed 
fashion: 

The  English  race,  if  they  did  not  invent  government  by  discussion,  have 
at  least  carried  it  nearest  to  perfection  in  practice.  It  seems  a  very  safe  and 
reasonable  contrivance  for  occupying  the  attention  of  the  country,  and  is 
certainly  a  better  way  of  settling  questions  than  by  push  of  pike.  Yet,  if  one 
should  ask  it  why  it  should  not  rather  be  called  government  by  gabble,  it 
would  have  to  fumble  in  its  pocket  a  good  while  before  it  found  the  change 
for  a  convincing  reply.64 

59  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  Elmwood  Edition,  pp.  11-12.  All  references  are 
to  this  edition. 

60  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  p.  13. 

61  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  p.  15. 

62  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  p.  18. 

63  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  p.  24. 

64  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  pp.  25-26. 


456  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

His  definition  of  democracy  still  stands.  After  quoting  a  phrase  of 
Napoleon  he  said:  "I  should  be  inclined  to  paraphrase  this  by  calling  de- 
mocracy that  form  of  society,  no  matter  what  its  political  classification, 
in  which  every  man  had  a  chance  and  knew  he  had  it. . . .  Democracy  in 
its  best  sense  is  merely  the  letting  in  of  light  and  air."  65 

Lowell's  clarity  is  shown  by  his  ability  to  distinguish  between  com- 
munism, socialism,  and  state  socialism,  at  a  time  when  the  terms  were 
generally  confused.  The  essay  concludes  by  an  eloquent  plea  for  hu- 
manity. 

He  watched  from  London  with  great  interest,  the  Cleveland-Blaine 
campaign  of  1884.  "As  for  the  small  majority  for  Cleveland,"  he  wrote 
to  C.  E.  Norton,  "I  am  more  than  satisfied  with  any,  considering  the  ob- 
stacles. That  we  are  saved  from  Blaine  is  enough  for  the  nonce."  66  And 
in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Holmes  he  states  definitely  that  he  would  have  voted 
for  Cleveland  had  he  been  at  home.  Holmes  had  written  to  Cleveland 
urging  him  to  retain  Lowell  in  his  post  at  London.  Cleveland  felt,  how- 
ever, that  he  should  be  represented  by  a  Democrat,  and  Lowell  was  glad 
to  return  to  his  native  country. 

In  1888  he  spoke  before  the  Reform  Club  of  New  York  City  upon 
"The  Place  of  the  Independent  in  Politics."  In  England  he  had  eulogized 
our  democratic  institutions,  but  in  this  address  he  called  attention  to  our 
shortcomings.  He  defined  politics  as  "an  art  which  concerns  itself  about 
the  national  housekeeping,  about  the  immediate  interests  and  workaday 
wants,  the  income  and  the  outgo  of  the  people. .  . .  But  there  is  a  higher 
and  wider  sense  in  which  politics  may  fairly  be  ranked  as  a  science."  67 

It  was  with  politics  as  a  science  that  Lowell  was  interested.  However 
he  believed  that  the  only  remedy  for  the  corruption  of  that  time  lay  in  an 
independent  body,  which  would  seek  the  best  men  for  office.  In  other 
words  he  wanted  a  party  of  leadership,  without  the  partisan  machinery. 
His  instinctive  feeling  is  revealed  in  his  question  "what  aggregate  of  little 
men  will  amount  to  a  single  great  one,  that  most  precious  coinage  of  the 
mint  of  nature?— They  are  not  the  product  of  institutions."  His  words 
concerning  the  evils  of  high  protection  read  like  a  prophecy: 

I  confess  I  cannot  take  a  cheerful  view  of  the  future  of  that  New  England  I 
love  so  well  when  her  leading  industries  shall  be  gradually  drawn  to  the  South, 
as  they  infallibly  will  be,  by  the  greater  cheapness  of  labor  there.  It  is  not 
pleasant  to  hear  that  called  the  American  system  which  has  succeeded  in 
abolishing  our  commercial  marine.  It  is  even  less  pleasant  to  hear  it  advocated 
as  being  for  the  interest  of  the  laborer  by  men  who  imported  cheaper  labor 
till  it  was  forbidden  by  law.  The  true  American  system  is  that  which  produces 
the  best  men  by  leaving  them  as  much  as  possible  to  their  own  resources.68 

Gr*  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  pp.  32-33. 
GG  Letters,  Vol.  3,  p.  121. 

67  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  p.  239. 

68  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  pp.  263-264. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  457 

His  interest  in  tariff  reform  had  been  shown  in  his  brief  address  before 
the  Tariff  Reform  League  of  Boston  in  December,  1887.  This  became 
largely  an  eulogy  of  President  Cleveland: 

Personally,  I  confess  that  I  feel  myself  strongly  attracted  to  Mr.  Cleveland  as 
the  best  representative  of  the  higher  type  of  Americanism  that  we  have  seen 

since  Lincoln  was  snatched  from  us But  we  are  not  here  to  thank  him 

as  the  head  of  the  party.  We  are  here  to  felicitate  each  other  that  the 
presidential  chair  has  a  Man  in  it,  and  this  means  that  every  word  he  says 
is  weighted  with  what  he  is.69 

He  inveighed  against  the  policy  of  nominating  men  for  the  highest 
office  because  they  had  "no  record,"  just  as  he  had  done  in  1848.  In 
short,  his  personal  and  local  traditions  led  him  into  the  party  of  institu- 
tions while  his  desire  to  see  real  leaders  in  office  turned  him  away  from 
the  oligarchy  that  ruled  from  1865  until  1884.  His  praise  of  Cleveland  in 
1887  shows  where  his  heart  really  lay. 

The  effect  of  Lowell's  political  writings  is  hard  to  overestimate.  The 
fiery  anti-Slavery  poems  of  his  youth  must  have  stirred  men's  hearts,  as 
Whittier's  did.  The  Biglotv  Papers  were  widely  read  and  the  First  Series 
undoubtedly  helped  to  disturb  the  consciences  of  the  Whig  appeasers. 
As  the  editor  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly  and  the  North  American  Review 
he  must  have  influenced  a  smaller  but  significant  group,  especially  through 
the  Second  Series  of  The  Biglow  Papers.  His  personal  qualities  as  well 
as  his  addresses  during  his  Ministry  helped  in  impressing  Great  Britain 
with  the  real  meaning  of  our  democracy.  In  his  later  years  his  notable 
addresses  as  well  as  his  personal  authority  were  of  service  in  the  at- 
tempts to  secure  civil  service  and  tariff  reforms.  If  his  writings  could  be 
revived  and  widely  circulated  among  the  younger  generations,  they 
would  be  of  inestimable  service  through  his  insistence  that  the  only  hope 
of  democracy  is  the  selection  of  great  leaders  who  have  secured  the 
trust  of  the  people. 

Among  the  writers  of  the  Middle  States  whose  publications  began  in 
the  late  forties,  George  Henry  Boker  was  the  most  active  in  politics.  His 
eminence  as  a  dramatic  poet  will  be  discussed  later,  but  from  the  time 
when  the  Union  was  attacked  his  energies  were  centered  in  its  defence. 
He  had  been  a  Democrat  who  voted  for  Buchanan,  as  did  many  of  the 
leading  citizens  of  Philadelphia,  and  his  fine  sonnet  on  "Andrew  Jackson" 
indicated  his  early  preference  for  the  party  of  leadership.  In  his  dramas 
also  his  heroes  were  usually  noble  or  royal.  But  he  turned  from  these  to 
write  some  of  the  best  lyrics  and  narrative  verse  of  the  Civil  War.  His 
"Ode  to  America,"  written  in  March,  1862,  when  Southern  victories 
led  to  disloyal  efforts  to  divide  the  sentiment  in  Philadelphia,  many  of 

69  Literary  and  Political  Addresses,  p.  223. 


458  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

whose  citizens  were  tied  to  the  South  by  family  or  commercial  ties,  is  a 
lofty  tribute  to  the  Union,  and  a  reply  to  foreign  threats  of  intervention 
as  well  as  to  disunion  at  home.  The  climax  is  noteworthy: 

Resume  thy  place,  unchallenged  now, 
Nor  bow  thy  glories  to  the  haughtiest  brow 

That  wears  a  royal  crown!  | 

False  prophets  scowled  thee  down, 
And  whispered  darkly  of  thy  coming  fate: 

The  cause,  the  way,  the  date, 
They  wrote  for  thee  with  the  slow  augur's  hand. 

Their  lies  were  scrawled  in  sand! 

They  perished  utterly! 
What  is  the  splendor  of  the  diadem, 
The  gilded  throne,  the  broidered  carpet-hem, 
The  purple  robe,  the  scepter,  and  the  strain 

Of  foregone  kings,  whose  race 

Defies  the  Herald's  trace, 
Before  thy  regal  steps  on  land  and  main? 

There  are  some  deeds  so  grand 

That  their  mighty  doers  stand 
Ennobled,  in  a  moment,  more  than  kings; 

And  such  deeds,  O  land  sublime, 

Need  no  sanctity  from  time; 

Their  own  epoch  they  create, 

Whence  all  meaner  things  take  date; 
Then  exalt  thee,  for  such  noble  deeds  were  thine! 

Envy  nothing  born  of  earth, 

Rank  nor  wealth  nor  ancient  birth, 
Nor  the  glittering  sorrows  of  a  crown. 

O  Nation,  take  instead 

Thy  measureless  renown, 
To  wrap  thy  young  limbs  like  a  royal  stole, 

And  God's  own  flaming  aureole, 

To  settle  on  thy  head! 

Boker's  Civil  War  poems  are  uneven  but  he  achieves  at  times  a  notable 
harmonious  simplicity,  as  in  his  "Dirge  for  a  Soldier": 

Close  his  eyes;  his  work  is  done! 

What  to  him  is  friend  or  foeman, 
Rise  of  moon,  or  set  of  sun, 

Hand  of  man,  or  kiss  of  woman? 
Lay  him  low,  lay  him  low, 
In  the  clover  or  the  snow! 
What  cares  he?  he  cannot  know: 
Lay  him  low!  70 

70  Written  in  memory  of  General   Philip  Kearny  who  was  killed  Sept.    i,    1862. 
Poems  of  the  War,  George  H.  Boker  (Philadelphia,  1891). 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  459 

He  wrote  also  the  best  celebration  of  the  freed  Negro  in  "The  Black 
Regiment,"  beginning: 

Dark  as  the  clouds  of  even, 
Ranked  in  the  western  heaven, 
Waiting  the  breath  that  lifts 
All  the  dread  mass,  and  drifts 
Tempest  and  falling  brand 
Over  a  ruined  land;— 
So  still  and  orderly, 
Arm  to  arm,  knee  to  knee, 
Waiting  the  great  event, 
Stands  the  black  regiment.71 

Boker's  most  concrete  service  to  the  Union  was  the  foundation  of  the 
Union  League  Club,  in  Philadelphia,  a  patriotic  organization,  and  he 
threw  his  strength,  in  the  social  and  financial  turmoil  which  the  war 
precipitated,  on  the  side  of  national  duty.  How  bitter  that  struggle  was 
can  now  hardly  be  understood,  but  the  club  which  stood  for  the  Union 
cause  had  at  first  to  meet  secretly,  and  Boker's  great  friend,  the  noted 
lawyer,  George  M.  Wharton,  refused  to  step  on  the  pavement  in  front 
of  the  club.  Boker  became  its  first  secretary  and  later  its  president.  He 
was  one  of  the  first  to  appreciate  Lincoln's  character,  both  in  his  prose 
essay,  "The  Will  of  the  People,"  (1864),  and  in  his  Phi  Beta  Kappa  poem 
at  Harvard,  July  20,  1865,  "Our  Heroic  Themes,"  read  the  day  before 
Lowell  delivered  his  "Commemoration  Ode."  It  was  the  Philadelphia 
patrician  who  was  the  first  to  speak  of  Lincoln  as  "Lord  of  himself,  an 
inborn  gentleman." 

Boker  became  our  Minister  to  Turkey  in  1871  and  was  transferred  to 
the  Russian  Mission  in  1875,  where  he  remained  until  1878.  In  both  mis- 
sions his  social  qualities  and  firmness  seem  to  have  been  of  great  service 

to  his  country. 

#         *        * 

Among  the  writers  whose  interest  lay  in  the  cause  of  Abolition, 
Thoreau  went  to  the  most  extreme  lengths.  His  attitude  toward  the  Union 
was  that  of  complete  secession.  In  "Civil  Disobedience"  he  went  as  far 
as  any  Southerner,  claiming,  in  1846,  the  right  to  refuse  any  tax  to 
Massachusetts  on  the  ground  that  the  money  might  be  used  to  return  a 
slave  to  South  Carolina.  He  carried  his  principles  to  the  logical  end  by 
going  to  jail  for  failure  to  pay  the  tax.  A  friend  paid  it  and  Thoreau  was, 
somewhat  against  his  own  wishes,  released.  In  "Slavery  in  Massachusetts" 
he  advocated  the  secession  of  his  state  from  the  Union. 

When  John  Brown  was  under  arrest  after  his  raid,  Thoreau,  with  his 
usual  courage,  sent  out  notices  that  he  would  speak  on  the  subject  on 

7 1  Poems  of  the  War. 


46o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

October  30.  His  friends  urged  him  to  wait  and  the  Abolition  Committee 
of  Concord  protested  that  his  action  was  premature.  His  reply  was  char- 
acteristic: "I  did  not  send  to  you  for  advice,  but  to  announce  that  I  am 
to  speak."  Even  Garrison's  Liberator  called  the  raid  "a  misguided,  wild 
and  apparently  insane  effort."  Thoreau's  deep  sympathy  with  Brown 
flung  aside  any  caution  and  produced  one  of  the  most  eloquent  of  his 
addresses.  His  policy  of  complete  nonresistance  is  said  to  have  influenced 
Gandhi. 


Richard  Hildreth  (1807-65),  the  author  of  a  dry  but  accurate  history 
of  the  United  States,  was  a  Whig  and  a  determined  foe  to  Slavery  in  his 
editorial  writings  and  his  Despotism  in  America  (1840).  His  most  striking 
contribution  to  the  cause,  however,  was  his  novel,  The  Slave:  or,  Memoirs 
of  Archy  Moore,  published  anonymously  in  1836  and  running  through 
several  editions  in  the  United  States  and  England  as  well  as  being  trans- 
lated five  times  into  French.  It  is  a  melodramatic  story,  but  its  significance 
lies  in  its  wide  popularity.  It  prepared  the  way  for  Mrs.  Stowe's  novel; 
indeed  "Thomas,"  one  of  the  characters,  seems  the  prototype  of  "Uncle 
Tom"  and  "Cassie"  of  one  of  her  heroines.  While  it  was  still  being  re- 
printed, the  literary  crusade  against  slavery  produced  its  most  forcible 
exponent  in  Uncle  Toirts  Cabin.  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  (181 1-96),  wrote 
the  novel  as  a  piece  of  Abolition  propaganda,  and  it  attracted  no  great 
attention  as  it  ran  through  The  National  Era,  an  anti-Slavery  journal,  in 
1 85 1.  But  when  it  appeared  in  book  form  in  1852,  it  began  a  sale  which 
has  lasted  even  until  today.72  From  a  critical  standard  it  is  melodrama 
pure  and  simple;  in  fact  Mrs.  Stowe  followed  the  rules  of  that  art  by 
writing  Uncle  Tom's  death  scene  first  and  building  up  the  novel  to  it. 
She  had  seen  a  slave  plantation  in  Kentucky  and  had  helped  fugitive  slaves 
across  the  Ohio  River,  but  most  of  her  information  came  at  second  hand.73 
Her  characters,  from  any  point  of  view,  are  either  black  or  white;  all 
are  overstressed  either  in  saintliness  or  evil.  Yet  the  effect  of  the  book 
was  tremendous  in  forcing  Slavery  upon  the  attention  of  a  nation  that 
wished  to  avoid  any  discussion  of  it,  and  it  has  become  more  than  a  novel; 
it  is  an  event  in  our  history.  To  make  the  appeal  to  the  reader's  sympathy, 
Mrs.  Stowe,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  chose  exceptionally  high  ex- 
amples of  the  Negro  race  and  unusually  low  specimens  of  the  white  race. 
This  made  the  owner's  power  over  the  life  and  death  of  the  slave  tragic 
in  its  dramatic  possibilities,  which  were  accentuated  in  the  dramatization 
by  George  L.  Aiken.  Yet  Mrs.  Stowe's  second  Abolition  novel,  Dred:  A 

72  Ten  thousand  copies  were  printed  in  the  spring  of  1948. 

7:!Shc  derived  a  large  amount  of  information  from  Theodore  Weld's  Slavery  As 
It  Is  (1839).  She  had  known  Weld  at  Lane  Seminary.  See  G.  H.  Barnes,  The  Anti- 
Slavery  Impulse  (1933),  p.  73  and  note  21,  Ch.  VI. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  461 

Tale  of  the  Great  Dismal  Swamp  (1856)  has  been  completely  forgotten. 
Too  much  theological  discussion  and  the  fatal  mistake  of  killing  the 
heroine  midway  in  the  book  caused  its  failure. 


It  has  not  been  generally  recognized  how  many  Northerners,  who  had 
no  commercial  interest  to  sway  them,  felt  strongly  that  the  preservation 
of  the  Union  was  of  more  importance  than  the  Abolition  of  slavery.  One 
of  the  earliest  and  most  impartial  treatments  of  Slavery  in  fiction  was 
probably  that  by  Sarah  J.  Hale,  best  known  as  editor  of  Godey's  Lady's 
Book.  Mrs.  Hale's  novel  of  Northwood  (1827)  was  a  contrast  of  life  in  the 
North  and  the  South.  Mrs.  Hale  recognized  the  evils  of  slavery,  but  in 
her  introduction  to  the  novel  when  it  was  republished  in  1852,  she  said: 

The  great  error  of  those  who  would  sever  the  Union  rather  than  see  a  slave 
within  its  borders,  is,  that  they  forget  the  master  is  their  brother,  as  well  as 
the  servant;  and  that  the  spirit  which  seeks  to  do  good  to  all  and  evil  to  none 
is  the  only  true  Christian  philosophy. 

Her  cure  for  the  situation  was  the  education  of  the  slave  in  this  coun- 
try as  a  preparation  for  his  freedom  and  return  to  Africa.  Mrs.  Hale  also 
wrote,  in  1853,  Liberia:  or,  Mr.  Peyton's  Experiment,  in  which  she  con- 
tinued to  stress  the  importance  of  the  transfer  of  the  colored  race  to 
Liberia  as  the  real  solution.  She  pictures  the  lot  of  the  freed  negro  in 
either  the  South  or  North  as  an  unhappy  one,  due  either  to  his  own 
limitations  or  the  cruelty  of  the  treatment  he  receives  at  the  North.  She  is 
one  of  the  few  writers  who  treats  the  slaves  as  individuals,  some  shiftless 
and  some  industrious. 

James  Kirke  Paulding  was  an  example  of  the  Northern  Democrat 
who  was  active  in  politics.  As  we  have  seen74  he  held  various  offices  in  the 
Navy  Department,  culminating  in  his  appointment  in  1838,  by  Van  Buren, 
as  Secretary  of  the  Navy.  His  political  affiliations  undoubtedly  prompted 
his  Slavery  in  the  United  States  (1836).  In  the  introduction  he  stated  that: 
"The  writer  does  not  consider  slavery,  as  it  exists  in  the  United  States, 
an  evil  of  such  surpassing  enormity  as  to  demand  the  sacrifice  of  the 
harmony  and  consequent  union  of  the  states,  followed  by  civil  conten- 
tion and  servile  war,  to  its  removal."  75 

Paulding's  arguments  in  favor  of  slavery  are  legalistic  or  satiric.  They 
are  interesting  now  because  of  their  defence  of  the  Union  against  the 
attacks  of  the  Abolitionists,  and  his  suggestion  that  the  South  might  well 
send  missionaries  to  the  North  to  reform  the  conditions  of  women  mill- 
workers  who  labor  fourteen  hours  a  day.  He  had  travelled  extensively  in 
the  South  and  the  unfair  statements  of  many  of  the  Abolitionists  irritated 

74  See  Chapter  13. 

75  "Introduction,"  pp.  8-9. 


462  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

him.  Indeed  the  most  truly  literature  among  the  replies  to  the  Abolition 
crusade  came  from  a  Northern  Whig,  Dr.  Bird.  In  his  novel  Sheppard 
Lee  (1836)  he  pictured  the  slaves  on  a  Virginia  plantation  as  contented 
with  their  lot  until  an  Abolitionist  pamphlet  arouses  them,  and  a  slave 
insurrection  is  then  vividly  portrayed.  The  agony  of  one  of  the  daughters 
of  the  house,  as  she  hurls  her  little  sister  from  the  cupola  and  then  leaps 
from  it,  was  a  better  answer  to  the  Abolitionists  than  any  argument. 
Bird  was  not  an  advocate  for  Slavery.  His  greatest  play,  as  will  be  seen 
later,76  had  a  white  slave  for  a  hero,  but  he  objected  to  the  methods  of 
the  Abolitionist  crusade. 

Poe  reviewed  this  book  in  the  Southern  Literary  Messenger  for 
September,  1836,  appreciatively,  so  far  as  the  Slavery  episodes  are  con- 
cerned. Poe  was  nominally  a  Whig,  but  his  interest  in  party  politics 
was  confined  largely  to  his  unsuccessful  efforts  to  obtain  a  Government 
position  during  the  administration  of  President  Tyler.  Poe  was  interested 
in  public  affairs  much  more  definitely  than  is  generally  recognized,  but 
his  comments,  made  in  his  editorial  capacity,  are  concerned  usually  with 
a  defence  of  Slavery  or  of  some  other  Southern  institution.  He  made  no 
signal  direct  contribution  to  pro-Slavery  literature,  but  he  believed  in 
Slavery  and  mentions  the  subject  in  six  critical  articles  and  nine  times  in 
his  tales.  Nearly  all  these  references  are  to  the  kindly  nature  of  the  slaves 
and  their  reluctance  to  be  set  free.  He  disliked  the  Abolitionists  extremely 
and  spoke  of  them  as  fanatics.  Poe's  intensely  individual  habit  of  mind 
and  his  dislike  of  the  literary  oligarchies  of  New  England  and  New  York 
make  his  adoption  of  the  party  of  institutions  at  first  glance,  unnatural. 
But  Poe  had  been  brought  up  in  the  household  of  John  Allan,  his  foster 
father,  who  belonged  to  the  merchant  set  of  Richmond,  rather  than  to 
the  planter  caste.  It  was  the  tradition  that  represented  financial  integrity 
and  the  privileges  of  property  rather  than  the  rights  of  humanity.  In  short 
it  was  the  South  of  John  A4arshall  and  not  that  of  Thomas  Jefferson. 
The  preservation  of  state  sovereignty  and  of  Slavery  was  of  extreme 
importance,  for  upon  them  rested  the  commercial  prosperity  of  the 
South. 

Definite  pro-Slavery  literature  existed  early  in  the  South.  It  was  defen- 
sive until  about  1820,  when  the  Abolition  attacks  made  the  South  and  its 
Northern  allies  more  aggressive.  One  of  the  earliest  of  the  literary  propa- 
ganda for  secession  was  The  Partisan  Leader:  A  Tale  of  the  Future,  by 
Nathaniel  Beverley  Tucker  ( 1784-185 1),  who  wrote  under  the  pen 
name  of  Edward  W.  Sidney.  The  novel,  published  in  1836,  had  on  the 
title  page  "1856,"  and  was  a  picture  of  what  would  happen  to  the  South 
unless  it  rebelled  against  the  tyranny  of  the  national  government.  Van 
Buren  is  represented  as  having  kept  the  Presidential  Chair  by  fraud  for 
several  terms.  The  novel  was  suppressed  but  reissued  in  1861.  Its  main 

76  See  Chapter  26. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  463 

interest  lies  in  the  early  advocacy  of  secession  and  the  picture  of  two 
Virginia  brothers  fighting  against  each  other.  It  contains  an  idealized 
picture  of  Slavery. 

William  Gilmore  Simms  took  an  active  interest  in  politics  and  con- 
stantly inveighed  against  politicians  but  he  held  no  office.  As  the  editor 
of  the  City  Gazette  of  Charleston,  in  183 1,  he  wrote  strong  Union  edi- 
torials, but  later,  as  editor  of  the  Souther?!  Quarterly  Review,  from  1849 
to  1855,  and  through  extensive  correspondence,  he  defended  Slavery  and 
the  right  of  South  Carolina  to  secede  from  the  Union.  Simms  contributed 
an  essay,  "The  Moral  of  Slavery,"  to  a  serious  attempt  to  defend  the 
institution  in  The  Pro-Slavery  Argument,  published  in  Philadelphia  in 
1853.  The  articles  in  general  are  well  written  but  have  little  imaginative 
quality.  Simms'  section  is  largely  a  reply  to  Harriet  Martineau.  Indeed 
most  of  the  pro-Slavery  literature  was  prompted  by  the  criticisms  of 
Northern  writers.  Studies  on  Slavery  (1852),  by  John  Fletcher,  of 
Louisiana,  is  a  closely  reasoned  book  of  637  pages,  replying  to  W.  E. 
Channing  and  others.  Rarely  did  these  writings  take  the  form  of  litera- 
ture. The  most  definite  attempt  was  a  long  poem  by  William  J.  Grayson, 
The  Hireling  and  the  Slave,  published  in  Charleston  in  1855,  which  con- 
trasts the  sad  lot  of  the  hireling  in  the  North  and  in  England,  who  leaves 
his  family  to  poverty,  with  the  happier  fate  of  the  slave  who  has  the 
liberty  to  fish  and  hunt  at  will,  being  certain  of  security  in  his  old  age. 
It  is  an  idyllic  picture,  not  badly  done,  of  the  joys  of  the  open  air.  It 
contains  a  bitter  attack  upon  Mrs.  Stowe.77  Indeed  the  effect  of  Uncle 
Tom's  Cabin  on  Southern  writing  can  hardly  be  overestimated;  and,  al- 
though Simms  declined  his  publisher's  request  to  reply  in  fictional  form 
to  Mrs.  Stowe's  novel,  there  were  many  who  took  up  the  defence  of 
Slavery  in  that  way.  Of  the  twelve  novels  examined,  nearly  all  have  been 
forgotten  and  show  evidence  of  hasty  composition.78 

The  Southern  pro-Slavery  argument  in  fiction  emphasized  the  follow- 
ing points  of  view:  (a)  Negroes  in  the  South  have  a  better  lot  than  white 
laborers  in  the  North;  (b)  Negroes  cannot  develop  under  their  own 
leadership  and  have  not  done  so  in  the  past.  This  is  illustrated  by  attempts 

"Pp.  44-45. 

78  Cabin  and  Parlor:  or,  Slaves  and  Masters,  by  J.  T.  Randolph  (Philadelphia,  1852); 
Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  contrasted  with  Buckingham  Hall,  the  Planter's  Home,  by  Robert 
Criswell,  Esq.  (New  York,  1852);  Aunt  Phillis's  Cabin:  or,  Southern  Life  As  It  Is,  by 
Mrs.  M.  H.  Eastman  (Philadelphia,  1852);  The  Planter:  or,  75  Years  in  the  South,  by 
David  Brown  (?)  (Philadelphia,  1853);  The  Sunny  South:  or,  The  Southerner  at 
Home,  by  J.  H.  Ingraham,  in  Saturday  Courier,  1853-54  (also  Philadelphia,  i860);  The 
Creole  Orphans:  or,  Lights  and  Shadows  of  Southern  Life,  by  James  S.  Peacock  (New 
York,  1856);  The  Ebony  Idol,  by  Mrs.  G.  M.  Flanders  (New  York,  i860);  The  Slave 
Holder  Abroad:  or,  Billy  Buck's  Visit  with  his  Master  to  England,  by  W.  T.  Thomp- 
son (?);  The  Master's  House:  A  Tale  of  Southern  Life,  anon.  (New  York,  1854); 
English  Serfdom  and  American  Slavery:  or,  Ourselves  as  Others  See  Us,  by  Lucien 
B.  Chase  (c.  New  York,  1854);  Meadowbrook,  by  Mary  J.  Holmes  (New  York, 
i860):  The  Sable  Cloud:  A  Southern  Tale  with  Northern  Comments  (Boston,  1861). 


464  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

to  give  freed  Negroes  places  to  live  in  a  community,  always  with  failure; 
(c)  the  Northern  treatment  of  free  Negroes  is  contemptuous  and  often 
cruel;  (d)  the  stressing  of  the  idea  of  Liberia  as  an  ideal  place  to  send 
freed  Negroes;  (e)  a  decided  evangelical  tone  dwelling  on  the  great 
advantages  Negroes  have  won  because  thev  have  become  Christianized 
through  being  made  slaves;  (f)  satire  concerning  the  exploitation  of 
Negroes  by  sentimental  people. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  pro-Slavery  pamphlets  was  The  Rightful 
Remedy:  Addressed  to  the  Slaveholders  of  the  South,  by  E.  B.  Bryan 
(Charleston,  1850),  in  which  he  stated  that  the  two  sections  "are  at  war, 
inevitable,  unavoidable  war.  The  cement  is  broken,  the  house  is  divided 
against  itself.  It  must  fall."  The  foreshadowing  of  Lincoln's  speech  in 
1858  is  evident,  but  the  latter  may  have  obtained  his  inspiration  from 
many  sources,  including  St.  Mark,  III:  25.  Much  of  the  pro-Slavery  argu- 
ment was  spoken  and  is  now  lost.  The  conclusion  of  an  eloquent  address 
by  James  H.  Holcome  may  serve  as  an  example  of  one  of  the  more 
liberal  Southern  points  of  view: 

We  are  willing  to  give  much  for  Union.  We  will  give  territory  for  it:  the 
broad  acres  we  have  already  surrendered  would  make  an  Empire. 

:   a  Union  in  which  the  North  and  the  South,  like  the  double  celled 

heart,  at  every  full  stroke,  beat  the  pulses  of  a  common  liberty  and  a  common 
glory.79 

The  instinctive  feeling  of  the  great  majority  of  the  writers  who  have 
been  discussed  and  who  were  concerned  with  politics  turned  them  awav 
from  the  party  of  institutions.  The  very  fact  that  they  were  creative 
artists  led  them  to  the  party  of  leadership,  the  party  of  progressive  ideas. 
Irving,  Bryant,  Paulding,  Bancroft,  Cooper  and  Hawthorne  remained 
there,  usually  content,  although  Bancroft's  devotion  to  the  Union  led  him  at 
times  away  from  the  Democratic  party.  Poe  and  Bird  remained  with  the 
Whigs.  Simms  was  naturally  a  Democrat.  Emerson,  Longfellow,  Whit- 
tier  and  Lowell  were  restless  in  the  Whig  party,  but  local  conditions 
kept  them  from  understanding  the  basic  philosophy  which  would  have 
taken  them  over  to  Democracy.  They  tried  to  make  the  great  leader  they 
wanted  out  of  Webster,  but  when  he  failed  them,  they  turned  their  guns 
on  him,  and  Whittier  left  the  party  altogether.  By  1852  the  party  of 
leadership  had  abandoned  for  the  time  its  best  traditions  and  this  left  them 
no  place  to  go.  They,  therefore,  joined  the  new  party  of  institutions,  the 
Republican,  because  the  defense  of  the  Union  gave  them  a  valid  reason 
for  doing  so.  Boker  also  joined  the  Republican  party  when  the  Union 
became  the  main  issue.  And  soon  a  great  leader,  Lincoln,  arose  unexpect- 
edly within  that  party  to  satisfy  their  instinctive  desires  for  a  leader.  He, 

79  Delivered  before  Virginia  State  Agricultural  Society.  Printed  South.  Lit. 
Messenger,  Vol.  27  (Dec.  1858),  p.  420. 


LITERATURE,  POLITICS,  AND  SLAVERY  465 

too,  was  a  man  of  letters  and,  although  his  utterances  before  the  Civil 
War  are  only  occasionally  literature,  they  reveal  that  his  great  purpose 
was  to  save  the  Union.  In  1854  he  stated  in  a  reply  to  a  speech  of  Stephen 
A.  Douglas:  "much  as  I  hate  Slavery,  I  would  consent  to  the  extension 
of  it  rather  than  see  the  Union  dissolved."  80 

The  first  of  his  utterances  which  rose  into  permanent  literature  was 
uttered  in  1858  at  the  convention  which  nominated  him  for  Senator. 
Speaking  of  the  agitation  against  Slavery,  he  said: 

In  my  opinion,  it  will  not  cease  until  a  crisis  shall  have  been  reached  and 
passed.  "A  house  divided  against  itself  cannot  stand."  I  believe  this  govern- 
ment cannot  endure  permanently  half  slave  and  half  free.  I  do  not  expect  the 
Union  to  be  dissolved— I  do  not  expect  the  house  to  fall— but  I  do  expect  it 
will  cease  to  be  divided.  It  will  become  all  one  thing,  or  all  the  other. 

It  is  in  brief,  strong  statements  like  this  that  Lincoln  shows  his  ability 
as  an  orator.  His  genius  for  expression  lay  in  his  following  closely  "the 
one  supreme  commandment— be  thou  clear."  He  could  take  ideas  from 
any  source:  the  Bible,  Shakespeare,  Jefferson,  Madison  and  Longfellow 
furnishing  his  most  striking  climaxes.  The  debates  with  Douglas  rise  to  a 
considerable  height,  especially  the  last  speeches  of  Douglas  and  Lincoln. 
After  i860  he  wrote  the  greatest  prose  utterances  in  celebration  of  the 
triumph  of  the  Union. 

It  is  significant  that  the  literary  attack  and  defence  of  Slavery,  although 
it  produced  some  notable  utterances,  did  not  inspire  poetry  that  can  match 
Longfellow's  noble  apostrophe,  Boker's  stirring  ode  in  time  of  defeat, 
or  Lowell's  lofty  commemoration  of  victory  for  the  Union  of  the  United 
States.  For  similar  reasons,  when  the  Southern  writers  ceased  defending 
Slavery  and  began  to  celebrate  a  new  union,  they  rose  to  the  heights 
of  Timrod's  "Ethnogenesis,"  Randall's  "Maryland,"  Ticknor's  "Little 
Giffen  of  Tennessee,"  or  Hayne's  "South  Carolina  to  the  States  of  the 
Union." 

so  Works,  ed.  Nicolay  and  Hay  (1894-1905),  Vol.  2,  p.  236. 


Chapter  26 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION 
IN  THE  DRAMA 


At  the  beginning  of  the  second  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century,  a 
change  began  in  the  nature  of  the  drama.  This  change  became  more 
apparent  after  1830,  but  the  causes  that  underlay  the  change  were  begin- 
ning to  operate  for  some  time  before  they  became  really  effective.  They 
were  based  partly  on  the  condition  of  the  theatres,  partly  on  the  advent 
of  certain  actors  like  Edwin  Forrest,  and  they  were  due  partly  to  the 
general  social,  political,  and  economic  condition  of  the  country.  By  1825 
improvements  in  transportation  had  brought  Boston  within  two  days  of 
New  York,  New  York  only  eleven  hours  from  Philadelphia,  and  Phila- 
delphia fifteen  hours  from  Washington.1  The  rapid  growth  which  this 
condition  made  possible  was  revolutionizing  industry  and  bringing  to  the 
front  a  group  of  people  who  before  this  were  outside  the  consideration 
of  purveyors  of  dramatic  art.  While  banks,  insurance  companies,  canals 
and  turnpikes,  mills  and  factories  were  springing  up  on  every  hand,  open- 
ings were  found  for  thousands  who  passed  with  prosperity  from  the  class 
who  worked  without  hope  to  those  who  not  only  hoped  but  demanded 
reward  and  enjoyment  in  addition  to  a  bare  livelihood.  This  class  did 
not  at  once  come  into  the  theatre;  in  fact,  the  reduction  in  1823  in  prices 
of  tickets  to  seventy-five,  fifty,  and  twenty-five  cents  seems  to  have  had 
no  favorable  result,  so  far  at  least  as  the  Philadelphia  theatres  were  con- 
cerned. But  there  is  evidence  in  the  building  of  theatres  in  New  York, 
Philadelphia,  Boston,  and  Washington  in  the  period  1820-30  that  the 
managers  anticipated  a  demand  which  came,  but  came  more  slowly  than 
they  had  expected.  The  accounts  of  this  transition  period  as  given  by  the 
theatrical  managers  of  the  time  are  confused  and  at  times  contradictory. 
They  are  swayed,  too,  by  personal  feeling  and  the  embittered  memories 

1  John  Bach  McAlaster,  History  of  the  People  of  the  United  States  (1900),  Vol.  5, 
p.  83. 

466 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  467 

of  rivalry  that  spelled  ruin  for  themselves  and  their  companies.  We  are 
concerned  not  with  these  ancient  feuds,  but  with  the  effect  upon  the 
drama  exercised  by  the  shifting  theatrical  conditions  of  this  period. 

In  1822  the  supremacy  of  the  Park  Theatre  in  New  York  was  threat- 
ened at  first  by  temporary  rivals  like  the  Chatham  or  the  Lafayette 
Theatres,  but,  in  1826,  the  Bowery  Theatre  began  a  career,  checkered  it 
is  true,  but  in  time  destined  to  be  a  great  one.  It  is  interesting  to  remember 
that  it  was  built  to  house  an  audience  which,  on  account  of  its  location, 
was  expected  to  be  fashionable,  and  that  on  the  contrary  its  palmy  days 
were  those  when  it  became  the  stronghold  of  democracy.  The  evidence 
of  the  public  appeal  is  shown  indirectly  by  the  change  in  scale  of  prices. 
At  first  the  charges  were  fifty  cents  for  the  boxes  and  the  pit  and  twenty- 
five  cents  for  the  gallery.  But  "a  few  nights'  experience  proved  that  to 
keep  a  portion  of  the  house  free  from  admixture  with  the  vulgar  and 
unrefined,  it  would  be  necessary  to  discriminate  between  the  boxes  and 
the  pit,  and  the  admission  was  raised  to  seventy-five  cents  for  the  former, 
and  reduced  to  thirty-seven  and  one-half  cents  for  the  latter,  which  soon 
produced  the  effect  desired."  2 

At  the  beginning  of  the  decade  1820-30,  the  theatrical  metropolis  of 
the  country  lay  in  Philadelphia.  The  Chestnut  Street  Theatre  Company, 
under  the  management  of  Warren  and  Wood,  with  its  fine  theatre,  its 
well-balanced  company,  headed  by  the  managers  and  containing  also  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Henry  Wallack  and  the  first  Joseph  Jefferson,  formed  an  organi- 
zation which,  especially  in  comedy,  had  no  rival  in  the  country.  Francis 
Courtney  Wemyss,  the  English  light  comedian  who  came  to  America  in 
1822,  and  who  was  nothing  if  not  critical,  compares  his  impression  of 
the  troupe  at  the  Park  Theatre,  "which  was  certainly  the  worst  company 
I  had  ever  seen  in  a  metropolitan  theatre,"  with  the  Philadelphia  com- 
pany, which  "had  such  an  array  of  talent  that  every  part  was  filled  with 
an  actor  fully  competent  to  sustain  the  reputation  of  the  theatre."  3  The 
Philadelphia  company  served  also  Baltimore  and  Washington.  But  by 
1828  dissension  and  rivalry  brought  disaster  and  the  priority  passed  to 
New  York. 

It  was  not  only  the  disasters  of  the  Philadelphia  theatres  that  brought 
the  primacy  to  New  York.  The  year  1825  marked  the  beginning  of  a  new 
era  for  the  Park  Theatre,  and  owing  to  the  temporary  nature  of  her 
rivals'  efforts  she  kept  the  leadership.  Of  all  the  causes  which  led  to  the 
priority  of  New  York,  her  geographical  position  as  the  greatest  American 
port  of  entry  was  the  most  potent.  To  her  first  came  the  foreign  stars, 
and  their  influence  upon  our  theatre  and  upon  our  drama  was  great. 


2  J.  N.  Ireland,  Records  of  the  New  York  Stage  from  1750  to  i860  (1866-67),  Vol.  1, 
522 

3  y 

P-  74- 


p.  522. 

3  Twenty-six  Years  of  the  Life  of  an  Actor  and  Manager  (1847),  Vol.  1,  p.  70  and 


468  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Wood  speaks  of  the  "star  system"  with  bitterness,  attributing  the  decline 
of  the  theatre  to  this  cause,  and  he  had  reason,  when  he  compared  the 
prosperous,  well-ordered  days  of  his  company  from  1810  to  1820  with 
its  later  disaster.  Galling  indeed  it  was  to  pay  stars  more  than  the  receipts 
they  brought  in  to  the  theatre,  and  surely  human  sympathy  must  go  out 
to  the  members  of  the  stock  company  who  witnessed  a  star  like  Lydia 
Kelly,  taking  her  nightly  sum  in  cash,  before  she  left  the  stage,  with  the 
knowledge  that  the  balance  did  not  provide  their  own  modest  salaries. 
Yet  that  the  stars  did  attract  in  general  much  larger  audiences  than  the 
regular  companies  is  proved  by  the  relentless  testimony  of  Wood's  own 
account  books,  and  the  mistake  lay  in  paying  the  extortionate  amounts 
which  the  foreign  actors  seemed  able  to  demand  from  managers  who  lost, 
in  their  desperate  rivalry,  a  proper  sense  of  proportion. 

Beginning  in  1820,  a  succession  of  great  actors  and  actresses  visited 
the  American  stage— Edmund  and  Charles  Kean,  Charles  Mathews,  Junius 
Brutus  Booth,  William  Charles  Macready,  Charles  and  Fanny  Kemble, 
to  mention  only  the  greatest,  but  with  the  exception  of  Booth,  they  con- 
tributed almost  nothing  to  the  encouragement  of  our  drama.  It  was  not 
that  they  were  hostile  to  it,  they  were  simply  indifferent.  They  had  their 
own  plays  and  they  saw  no  reason  to  adopt  new  and  untried  parts.  But 
the  very  fact  that  these  foreign  stars  acted  first  and  most  frequently  in 
New  York,  while  it  added  to  that  city's  theatrical  prestige,  hindered  the 
development  of  a  native  drama  there.  In  Philadelphia,  on  the  other  hand, 
which  welcomed  the  stars  less  frequently,  and  where  theatrical  rivalry 
spurred  on  the  respective  managers  to  provide  attractions,  there  grew 
up  a  number  of  playwrights  whose  work  became  widely  known  both 
at  home  and  abroad.  Settled  theatrical  conditions  are,  of  course,  necessary 
to  the  encouragement  of  the  drama,  but  full  houses  do  not  always  mean 
prosperity  to  the  native  playwright,  while  theatrical  failure  sometimes 
spells  success  for  him.  Too  many  theatres  may  bring  ruin  to  producers, 
but  they  may  give  the  American  dramatist  his  long-awaited  opportunity. 

While  the  foreign  stars,  therefore,  were  on  the  whole  indifferent  to 
the  native  drama,  the  case  was  far  different  with  the  two  native  actors 
whose  careers  began  in  the  decade  from  1820  to  1830— Edwin  Forrest  and 
James  H.  Hackett.  Forrest  was  born  in  Philadelphia,  March  9,  1806.  With 
no  enthusiastic  welcome  from  the  management,  he  made  his  debut  at  the 
Walnut  Street  Theatre,  November  27,  1820,  as  young  Norval  in  Home's 
tragedy  of  Douglas.  He  showed  real  ability,  but  no  opening  presenting 
itself  in  Philadelphia,  he  was  advised  to  acquire  experience  in  the  West, 
and  he  spent  some  years  in  Pittsburgh,  Lexington,  Cincinnati,  New 
Orleans,  and  Albany,  reappearing  in  Philadelphia  in  May,  1826,  and  act- 
ing Othello  in  New  York  in  June.  He  soon  was  established  in  popular 
favor  as  a  star,  and  it  is  to  his  credit  that  he  stimulated  American  play- 
wrights to  produce  plays  suited  to  his  ability.  John  Augustus  Stone, 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  469 

Richard  Penn  Smith,  Robert  Montgomery  Bird,  Robert  Conrad,  and 
George  H.  Miles  were  among  those  who  wrote  plays  for  him  or  were 
encouraged  by  his  performance  in  their  plays.  Of  his  relations  with  them 
it  will  be  more  appropriate  to  speak  when  we  are  discussing  the  work 
of  the  dramatists  themselves,  but  the  group  of  Philadelphia  playwrights 
who  were  stimulated  by  a  great  Philadelphia  actor  remains  a  significant 
landmark  in  the  history  of  our  drama. 

Through  his  interest  and  support  he  almost  restored  Philadelphia  to 
her  theatrical  prestige.  While  Maywood  at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre 
was  losing  money  through  his  policy  of  employing  foreign  stars  imported 
by  the  Park  Theatre,  the  Arch  Street  management  in  Philadelphia  had  a 
most  profitable  season.  Real  results  might  have  followed  if  this  experiment 
of  pitting  an  American  actor  with  American  plays  against  a  theatre  with 
the  policy  of  producing  foreign  importations,  could  have  continued. 

James  H.  Hackett  was  born  in  New  York  City,  March  15,  1800.  His 
first  appearance  in  1826  was  not  successful,  but  his  renderings  of  Yankee 
characters  made  him  famous,  and  his  own  dramatic  contributions  will  be 
treated  under  that  head.  The  success  of  James  K.  Paulding's  Lion  of  the 
West  in  which  Hackett  acted  Nimrod  Wildfire  was  due  in  large  measure 
to  his  performance,  and  he  supplies  one  of  the  links  in  the  long  develop- 
ment of  Rip  Van  Winkle.  Forrest  and  Hackett  were  not  alone,  of  course, 
in  their  encouragement  of  native  playwrights.  Naturally,  actors  were 
looking  for  the  proper  vehicles  for  their  talents,  and  managers  were 
willing  to  risk  something  in  a  business  whose  very  foundation  is  the  un- 
stable quality  of  public  favor.  That  they  were  not  willing  to  risk  enough, 
is  evidenced  by  the  solid  profit  which  came  to  Edwin  Forrest  from 
Metamora,  The  Gladiator,  and  Jack  Cade,  but  this  object  lesson  was  yet 
to  be  brought  to  their  attention  in  1825,  the  year  in  which  Longfellow 
chose  for  his  graduation  oration  an  appeal  for  better  appreciation  of 
"Our  Native  Writers"! 


As  a  people  we  had  almost  no  artistic  courage,  and  even  the  dramatists 
turned,  as  Payne  had  done,  too  frequently,  to  foreign  inspiration.  A 
typical  playwright  of  this  transition  period,  1825  to  1830,  was  Richard 
Penn  Smith.  He  was  born  in  Philadelphia,  March  13,  1799,  the  grandson 
of  William  Smith,  the  first  Provost  of  the  College  of  Philadelphia,  who 
had  been  the  patron  of  our  first  playwright.  Richard  Penn  Smith  was 
editor  of  the  Aurora  for  a  time,  but  his  principal  profession  was  that  of 
law.  His  work  is  important  not  only  for  itself  but  also  because  it  illustrates 
the  tentative  experimenting  in  dramatic  forms  in  which  a  playwright 
of  transition  is  apt  to  indulge.  Romantic  tragedy  and  comedy,  national 
historical  plays,  domestic  drama,  melodrama,  and  farce,  based  both  on 
native  and  foreign  inspiration,  were  constructed  by  him,  always  with  a 


470  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

view  to  stage  presentation.  He  wrote  twenty  plays,  of  which  fifteen 
were  performed.  His  early  work  was  largely  adaptation  of  French  farce, 
but  he  next  turned  to  American  history  for  material,  and  produced  The 
Eighth  of  January,  first  played  on  January  8,  1829.  It  celebrated  ostensi- 
bly Jackson's  victory  at  New  Orleans  in  18 15,  but  in  reality  it  celebrated 
his  triumph  of  1828,  and  was  consequently  of  deeper  significance.  Andrew 
Jackson  had  just  been  elected  President  of  the  United  States,  and,  to  a 
great  majority  of  the  people,  he  was  the  champion  of  popular  govern- 
ment as  opposed  to  the  class  government  of  which  the  "Adams  dynasty" 
was  the  symbol.  The  play  represents,  therefore,  the  dramatization  of 
political  feeling  and  belongs  to  social  history. 

Smith's  plays  can  be  studied  most  profitably  in  their  types  rather  than 
in  accordance  with  strict  chronology.  His  next  historical  play  produced 
successfully  at  the  Walnut  Street  Theatre  on  December  25,  1829,  was 
an  attempt  to  dramatize  the  figure  of  William  Penn,  and  to  carry  on  the 
interest  in  Indian  themes.  The  incomplete  fragment  of  the  play  reads 
well,  despite  the  curious  language  which  the  Indians  speak  on  the  stage 
and  there  only.  The  best  of  Smith's  historical  plays  was  The  Triumph 
at  Plattsburg,  based  on  the  victory  of  McDonough's  fleet  on  Plattsburg 
Bay  in  September,  18 14.  It  was  put  on  January  8,  1830,  at  the  Chestnut 
Street  Theatre,  with  considerable  scenic  effect,  to  judge  from  the  pro- 
gram, which  promised  ua  view  of  the  Arrival  and  Capture  of  the  British 
Fleet."  The  fight,  however,  is  really  kept  in  the  background,  and  the 
main  interest  lies  in  the  escape  of  the  hero,  Major  iMcCrea,  from  the 
British  soldiers,  which  is  brought  about  by  a  clever  comedy  scene.4 

The  greatest  quality,  although  not  by  any  means  the  highest  quality, 
of  Penn  Smith's  work,  is  to  be  found  in  the  adaptation  of  French  comedy 
or  melodrama.  Among  these  The  Disowned  (1829)  and  The  Sentinels:  or, 
The  Two  Sergeants  (1829),  a  dramatization  of  the  Damon  and  Pythias 
story,  will  repay  rereading. 

Smith  was  a  constant  student  of  the  English  drama,  and  the  best  of  his 
plays  that  has  come  down  to  us  in  complete  form,  The  Deformed:  or, 
Woman's  Trial,  played  in  Philadelphia,  in  1830,  owes  its  sub-plot  to  the 
second  part  of  Dekker's  Honest  Whore  and  that  play's  earlier  adapta- 
tion, Dunlap's  Italian  Father.  But  the  main  plot  owes  nothing  to  either 
Dekker  or  Dunlap;  and  that  the  sub-plot  goes  back  to  Elizabethan  times 
proves  only  the  perennial  quality  of  fine  art  and  the  freedom  any  age  has 
to  treat  universal  passions  and  emotions.  Smith  created  as  the  central 
character,  Adorni,  a  man  misshapen  but  worshipping  beauty  all  the  more 
on  that  account;  and,  in  blank  verse  of  a  vigorous  and  varied  texture,  he 
drew  well  not  only  Adorni's  craving  for  affection,  but  also  Eugenia's 
fidelity. 

4  For  this  and  other  plays  of  Smith,  see  The  Sentinels  and  Other  Flays,  ed.  R.  H. 
Ware  and  H.  W.  Schoenberger. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  47i 

It  is  greatly  to  be  regretted  that  Cains  Marius,  probably  Smith's  most 
important  play,  has  not  been  preserved  even  in  manuscript.  In  this  play  he 
chose  the  embodiment  of  one  of  the  most  tragic  of  themes,  the  failure 
of  a  leader  of  the  people  to  retain  his  moral  greatness.  That  Caius  Marius 
owed  its  inspiration  to  Payne's  Brutus  is  only  another  indication  of  the 
essentially  consistent  progress  of  our  drama;  and,  with  this  play,  Smith 
definitely  established  himself  as  a  precursor  of  the  romantic  tragedy  that 
was  to  flower  in  America  during  the  next  period.  Although  written  before 
1828,  fortunately  for  the  author,  the  play  was  not  produced  at  that  low- 
water  mark  in  theatrical  history,  but  waited  for  the  talent  of  Edwin 
Forrest  to  interpret  the  character  of  Marius.  Forrest  had  made  his  great 
triumph  with  Metamora  in  1829  and  was  looking  for  other  American 
plays,  with  which  to  vary  his  Shakespearian  program.  He  produced 
Caius  Marius  at  the  Arch  Street  Theatre,  in  Philadelphia,  on  January  12, 
183 1.  Durang  speaks  of  the  dramatic  construction,  the  vigor  of  language, 
and  the  harmony  of  versification.  In  one  sense,  however,  Penn  Smith  was 
unfortunate  in  the  association  with  Forrest,  whose  selfish  policy  forbade 
the  publication  of  any  of  the  plays  he  controlled,  lest  they  should  be  acted 
by  others.  Consequently  nothing  has  been  preserved  of  Caius  Marius  but 
fragments  found  in  newspapers  or  in  theatrical  histories.  One  of  these 
shows  Marius  in  the  decline  of  his  great  powers,  boasting  of  his  triumphs 
and  trembling  at  the  approach  of  Sylla.  Smith  implies  artistically  the 
effect  on  the  plebeian  soldier  of  the  patrician  prestige  of  Sylla,  against 
which  he  had  fought  bravely,  but  which  he  could  not  ignore  either  in 
his  triumph  or  in  his  despair. 

In  what  was  probably  Smith's  last  acted  play,  The  Actress  of  Padua, 
he  drew  upon  the  newer  French  impulse,  the  romantic  drama  of  Victor 
Hugo,  thus  revealing  a  quick  appreciation  of  that  new  romantic  figure 
in  France,  for  the  echoes  of  the  struggle  of  the  Romanticists  and  Classicists 
of  Paris  had  not  yet  resounded  very  loudly  in  America.  The  play  was 
performed  on  June  13,  1836,5  in  Philadelphia.  It  exists,  however,  not 
in  dramatic  form,  but  as  a  narrative.6  In  the  preface,  the  author  tells 
us  that  he  had  intended  to  adapt  Victor  Hugo's  Angelo  Tyran  de  Padoue 
for  the  stage,  but  "as  few  go  to  witness  the  performance  of  dramas  of  this 
description,  and  no  one  reads  them  when  printed"  he  had  decided  to  turn 
it  into  a  novel.  It  would  be  of  interest  to  know  what  caused  Smith  to 
change  his  mind  and  write  the  drama.  It  proved  to  be  the  longest  lived 
of  his  plays,  for  Charlotte  Cushman  acted  in  it  during  the  season  of  185 1- 
52  and  there  is  a  record  of  its  performance  as  late  as  November  8, 
1873,  at  Daly's  Broadway  Theatre.  The  story  is  powerful,  if  melo- 
dramatic. 
Although  among  the  manuscripts  of  Smith  there  are  plays  which  were 

5  North  American  Gazette,  Advertisements. 

6  The  Actress  of  Padua  and  Other  Tales  (Philadelphia,  1836). 


472  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

apparently  not  performed  but  which  reveal  the  steady  progress  in  his 
dramatic  ability,  it  is  the  very  existence  of  The  Deformed,  Cains  Marius, 
and  The  Actress  of  Padua,  even  if  we  have  two  of  them  only  in  fragments 
or  a  name,  that  is  of  particular  significance. 


Literary  parallels  are,  of  course,  the  temptation  of  the  historian  and 
it  would  be  easy  to  overemphasize  the  resemblance  between  the  dramatic 
movements  in  France  and  America  which  dominate  the  second  quarter 
of  the  century.7  It  is  however  striking  that  Alexandre  Dumas,  in  1829, 
and  Victor  Hugo,  in  1830,  should  have  inaugurated  a  romantic  period 
in  French  drama  with  Henry  III  and  Hernani  and  that  in  1830-31,  Robert 
Montgomery  Bird  should  have  written  Pelopidas  and  The  Gladiator.  It 
was  likewise  from  1829  to  1832  that  Hawthorne  and  Poe  in  America  and 
Balzac  and  Merimee  in  France  were  forming  the  model  of  the  modern 
romantic  short  story.  Romance  was  in  the  air.  Scott  was  nearing  his  end, 
but  his  novels  were  at  the  summit  of  their  popularity.  Cooper's  romances 
were  published  as  soon  as  written  in  thirty-four  places  in  Europe,  and 
Byron  was  still  exerting  his  influence  upon  European  poetry.  The  visit 
of  Kean,  Charles  Kemble,  and  Macready  to  Paris,  in  1827,  where  they 
played  not  only  Shakespeare  but  also,  at  least  in  Kean's  case,  romantic 
tragedy  in  Payne's  Brutus,  shook  the  classic  tradition  of  the  French 
tragedy  and  had  much  to  do  with  the  rise  of  the  romantic  school.  In 
France,  the  playwrights  took  from  the  melodrama  the  lesson  in  liberality 
it  had  to  offer  and  the  transition  from  Pixerecourt,  Caigniez,  and  others 
seems  clear.  In  England,  although  Shakespeare  had  so  much  to  give  to 
Hugo  and  Dumas,  there  was  no  corresponding  development  in  practical 
stagecraft  from  melodrama  to  tragedy. 

There  has  probably  been  no  literary  term  so  variously  used  as 
"romantic."  Much  of  the  consequent  confusion  has  been  caused  by  the 
employment  of  the  term  to  describe  both  the  material  selected  and  the 
method  of  treatment  of  that  material.  If  the  term  "romantic"  could  be 
confined  to  the  selection  of  material  and  in  that  field  be  contrasted  with 
the  term  "classic,"  its  proper  antithesis,  while  the  terms  "realistic"  and 
"idealistic"  could  be  applied  to  the  treatment,  clarity  could  be  secured 
and  some  of  our  literary  tendencies  and  movements  would  be  better 
understood.  Romantic  material  may  be  treated  either  realistically  or 
ideal  isticallv,  as  Henry  Esmond  or  The  Deer  slayer  will  illustrate,  although 
the  latter  treatment  is  more  likely  to  occur.  For  the  type  of  mind  that 
chooses  classic  or  familiar  material  is  prone  to  treat  it  in  a  realistic  manner, 
while  the  writer  who  prefers  romantic  scenes  and  characters  is  also  apt 

7  How  appreciative  the  American  audiences  of  that  day  were  of  the  French  opera 
may  be  judged  by  the  discriminating  article  on  "The  French  Comic  Opera"  in 
The  Phila.  Monthly  Magazine,  for  Nov.  1827,  pp.  92-95. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  473 

to  accentuate  certain  phases  of  these,  rather  than  to  draw  a  picture  of 
actual  life.  Curiously  enough,  when  the  unusual  combination  occurs  and 
the  romantic  material  is  treated  in  a  realistic  manner,  as  in  the  plays  of 
Shakespeare,  or  the  classic  material  is  treated  in  an  idealistic  manner,  as 
in  the  novels  of  Dickens,  we  have  some  of  the  greatest  productions  of 
literature.  It  would  be  idle,  perhaps,  to  insist  on  such  a  series  of  definitions, 
but  they  will  at  least  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  there  is  no  necessary 
antagonism  between  romance  and  realism.  The  essence  of  romance  is 
freedom  from  restraint.  The  dramatist  or  novelist  or  poet  chooses  his 
theme  without  restriction  of  place  or  time.  He  may  choose  the  large 
figures  of  history,  but  if  he  does  he  will  invest  them  with  a  greatness  that 
is  true  to  the  dignity  which  the  past  fittingly  assumes  in  the  eyes  of  the 
present.  He  may  escape  from  the  familiar  by  placing  his  characters  in  a 
foreign  atmosphere,  and  here  he  will  have  the  task  of  remaining  faithful 
to  the  exotic  spirit  while  at  the  same  time  making  it  intelligible  to  the 
sympathy  of  his  audience.  When  he  has  to  make  his  choice  between 
verisimilitude  to  history  or  foreign  custom  and  a  quick  appeal  to  the 
understanding  and  emotions  of  his  hearers,  the  dramatist  who  knows  his 
art  will  choose,  with  Shakespeare,  the  latter  alternative.  And  the  romantic 
dramatist,  realizing  that  his  material  has  no  general  appeal  to  the  experi- 
ence of  his  audience,  will  all  the  more  surely  be  wise  if  he  treats  a  motive 
which  on  account  of  its  universal  quality  will  have  as  wide  an  appeal 
as  possible  to  their  imagination.  There  are  certain  motives  that  approach 
this  universal  quality:  among  these  are  self-preservation,  love  of  sex, 
family  affection,  love  of  country,  religious  feeling,  and  personal  honor, 
and  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  as  the  motive  grows  less  general  in  its 
appeal,  the  impulse  becomes  of  a  higher  nature.  It  is  the  touchstone  of 
the  skillful  dramatist  that  he  can  so  mingle  these  motives  in  a  natural 
development  as  to  bring  the  largest  number  into  conflict  with  each  other, 
and  that  he  can  so  clothe  these  motives  in  human  guise  that  the  characters 
will  seem  to  dominate  the  action  and  bring  about  a  probable  conclusion. 
It  is  because  Robert  Montgomery  Bird  so  well  understood  this  funda- 
mental problem  of  his  art  that  his  plays  mark  a  decided  advance  in  the 
progress  of  our  drama  and  do  not  in  any  way  appear  dated  to  a  modern 
audience. 


Robert  Montgomery  Bird  was  born  in  Newcastle,  Delaware,  February 
5,  1806.  He  was  educated  in  Philadelphia,  attending  the  Germantown 
Academy  and  matriculating  in  the  School  of  Medicine  of  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania  in  1824.  He  seems  to  have  entered  upon  the  study  of 
medicine  without  any  great  fondness  for  the  science,  but  took  his  degree 
in  medicine  at  the  University  in  April,  1827.  Although  he  began  practice 
in  Philadelphia  with  a  prospect  of  success,  he  deliberately  abandoned  his 


474  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

profession  at  the  expiration  of  one  year.  According  to  his  wife's  account,8 
he  disliked  to  accept  fees  for  his  services,  and  he  relinquished  his  practice 
with  relief.  That  he  continued  to  be  interested  in  science  is  proved  by 
the  many  manuscript  notes  concerning  chemistry,  botany,  and  agriculture, 
and  by  his  later  appointment  to  the  chair  of  the  Institutes  of  Medicine  and 
Materia  Medica  at  the  new  Pennsylvania  Medical  College  in  Philadelphia 
in  1 84 1.  But  this  interest  was  matched  by  his  wide  knowledge  of  languages 
and  of  earlier  playwrights,  which  reveal  him  as  one  of  the  most  versatile 
men  of  his  time.9  He  had  read  the  Elizabethan  and  some  of  the  Restoration 
dramatists,  and  he  viewed  them  appreciatively  but  critically. 

The  real  cause  of  his  abandonment  of  medicine  was  his  greater  love 
of  literature.  While  he  was  still  a  medical  student  at  Pennsylvania  he  was 
writing  plays,  and  his  first  manuscript  of  any  length  bears  the  date  of 
May,  1827.  It  is  a  comedy,  'Twas  All  for  the  Best,  laid  in  England  and 
imitative  of  Congreve  at  his  feeblest.  Far  below  any  other  of  Bird's  plays 
in  merit,  it  is  interesting  in  only  one  particular.  The  cast  bears  evidence 
that  it  was  written  definitely  with  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre  Company 
in  mind,  for  the  parts  are  assigned  to  Warren,  Wood,  and  others.  Thus, 
from  the  very  start,  Bird  wrote  with  an  eye  to  stage  presentation,  and 
this  quality  makes  his  apprentice  work  of  much  greater  significance  than 
if  he  had  been,  even  in  the  beginning,  a  closet  dramatist. 

Fortunately,  he  turned  aside  from  imitation  of  farce  comedy  to  ro- 
mantic tragedy,  for  while  The  Cowled  Lover  and  Caridorf,  dated  in  June 
and  August,  1827,  are  more  interesting  as  preparation  than  as  achieve- 
ment, they  yet  show  traces  of  that  power  of  imagination  and  directness 
of  expression  which  Bird  showed  later  in  their  fullness.  Both  plays  savor 
of  melodrama,  but  there  is  no  attempt  at  a  happy  ending,  and  the  tragedy 
has  more  of  the  inevitable  quality  than  is  usual  at  the  time.  Among  Bird's 
other  plays  of  1827  and  1828,  which  are  comedies  laid  in  Philadelphia, 
The  City  Looking  Glass  is  important  as  an  early  example  of  the  treatment 
of  low  life  in  a  large  city,  for  Ravin  and  Ringfinger,  the  counterfeiters, 
are  fairly  real,  and  old  Raleigh,  the  Virginia  squire,  is  amusing  and  con- 
temporary in  his  cross-questioning  of  his  boy's  proposed  father-in-law 
as  to  his  views  on  slavery  and  the  tariff.  News  of  the  Night  is  merely 
farce,  but  both  plays  show  that  sense  of  proportion  and  probability  that 
kept  the  romantic  element  in  Bird's  nature  from  running  away  with  him. 

Bird  was  concerned,  constantly,  with  principles  of  dramatic  construc- 
tion. An  undated  manuscript  reveals  how  clearly  he  understood  the  neces- 
sity of  having  every  event,  character,  or  speech  lead  to  the  climax  of  the 
play.  In  this  he  anticipated  Poe's  theory  of  the  unity  of  the  short  story. 

Among  the  Bird  papers  in  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  is  a  manuscript 
biography  by  Alary  Bird,  which  is  the  basis  for  the  statements  of  personal  history  in 
this  chapter. 

!*  Sec  Bibliography  of  Chapter  IX  in  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  History  of  American  Drama 
from  the  Beginning  to  the  Civil  War  for  detailed  account  of  the  MSS. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  475 

In  1830  he  began  to  see  the  prospect  of  his  ambition  realized  when  his 
play,  Pelopidas,  was  accepted  by  Edwin  Forrest.  Pelopidas  was  not  written 
expressly  for  Forrest,  and  it  was  decided  by  mutual  agreement  that  a  new 
play,  The  Gladiator,  which  Bird  was  writing  with  special  reference  to 
Forrest's  peculiar  abilities,  should  first  be  played.  Yet  Pelopidas  is  certainly 
one  of  the  best  of  Bird's  dramas.  It  is  an  historical  play,  based  upon 
Plutarch's  account  of  Pelopidas,  but  modified  by  a  keen  sense  of  the 
dramatic  possibilities  attending  the  revolt  of  the  Theban  city  against  the 
Spartan  tyrants.  Bird  took  from  Plutarch  the  general  situation,  brought 
about  by  the  betrayal  of  Thebes  by  the  oligarchical  party  headed  by 
Leontidas,  Archias,  and  Philip,  but  he  makes  Spartans  of  the  two  last, 
instead  of  Thebans,  thereby  differentiating  them  from  Leontidas  and 
from  Philidas,  their  secretary,  who  becomes  one  of  the  chief  characters. 
The  play  is  not  a  tragedy,  for  the  main  motive  is  successful,  and  the  cur- 
tain descends  upon  the  patriots  in  possession  of  Thebes,  with  a  denuncia- 
tion of  slavery  which  was  a  bit  pronounced  in  1830.  The  nature  of 
Pelopidas,  brave  and  rash,  and  that  of  Philidas,  calm  and  self-contained, 
the  cynical  nature  of  Leontidas  and,  above  all,  the  very  feminine  character 
of  Sibylla  remain  clearly  in  the  memory.  It  is  easy  to  see  why  Forrest  did 
not  produce  the  play.  It  does  not  give  him  sufficiently  the  center  of  the 
stage.  But  it  seems  a  great  pity  that  Pelopidas  was  not  performed.  Those 
who  read  it  were  high  in  its  praise,  and  among  the  manuscripts  is  a  letter, 
written  in  1840  by  William  E.  Burton,  offering  Dr.  Bird  ten  percent  on 
the  gross  receipts  nightly,  probably  the  first  instance  in  which  such  a 
royalty  was  offered  to  an  American  playwright.  By  that  time,  however, 
Bird  had  abandoned  his  career  as  a  dramatist. 

The  Gladiator  was  performed  first  on  September  26,  183 1,  at  the  Park 
Theatre,  in  New  York.  Its  success  was  immediate  and  deserved.  The 
manuscript  notes  reveal  how  thoroughly  Bird  prepared  himself  for  the 
writing  of  the  play.  Probably  no  dramatist  has  so  clearly  indicated  his 
sources.10  He  took  the  main  facts  as  given  in  the  accounts  of  Plutarch 
and  Appian,  and  the  histories  of  Ferguson  and  Hooke.  From  the  remain- 
ing sources  he  could  have  obtained  only  confirmation  and  atmosphere. 
But  Bird  used  historic  facts  only  as  inspiration.  With  the  true  instincts  of 
a  dramatist,  he  took  liberties  with  history  in  order  to  produce  a  human 
document.  He  selected  Spartacus,  the  leader  of  the  insurrection  of  the 
gladiators,  as  a  representative  of  the  eternal  struggle  for  freedom  against 

10  According  to  the  MS  they  were  Plutarch,  Lives  of  Crassus,  pp.  8-1 1;  and 
Sertorius;  Livy,  pp.  95-96-97;  Appian,  History  of  Rome:  The  Civil  Wars,  Vol.  1,  pp. 
1 16-120;  (Adam)  Ferguson,  History  of  the  Progress  and  Termination  of  the  Roman 
Republic,  Vol.  1,  Chap.  16  (Ace.  to  ed.  London  1783  it  appears  in  Vol.  2,  Chap.  2, 
pp.  27-33);  N.  Hooke,  The  Roman  History  from  the  Building  of  Rome  to  the  Ruin 
of  the  Commonwealth,  6  vols.  (Dublin,  1767),  Vol.  2,  pp.  300-365.  Vol.  3,  p.  284. 
(These  refer  to  servile  war  in  Sicily.  He  also  used  the  account  of  Spartacus.)  Also 
various  articles  in  Blackwood's  Magazine. 


476  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tyranny,  and  he  pitted  his  hero  against  the  most  powerful  tyranny  of 
history.  He  secured  thereby  the  sympathy  of  the  audience,  for  the  motive 
of  self-preservation  becomes  at  once  dominant.  Spartacus  is  a  Thracian, 
a  free  man  made  slave,  an  event  not  then  unfamiliar  in  America. 

The  Gladiator  had  the  virtues  and  the  faults  of  romantic  tragedy,  and 
some  of  the  excellent  results  of  Bird's  research  were  cut  relentlessly  in 
the  acted  version  by  Forrest,  so  as  to  concentrate  attention  upon  himself. 
Reading  after  a  lapse  of  years  is  a  severe  test  for  such  a  play,  and  yet 
it  meets  the  test  surprisingly.  It  must  be  judged,  however,  in  terms  of  its 
remarkable  effect  upon  the  stage.  At  the  end  of  the  Second  Act,  Spartacus 
meets  his  brother,  Pharsarius,  in  the  arena.  They  sound  the  signal  for 
revolt  and,  with  the  cry  of  Spartacus,  "Ho,  slaves  arise!  it  is  your  hour 
to  kill!"  the  guards  and  gladiators  rush  and  engage  in  combat,  as  the 
curtain  falls.  The  effect  of  this  scene  seems  to  have  been  tremendous. 
Wemyss11  says:  "Accustomed  as  an  actor  is  to  striking  scenes,  I  was 
taken  by  surprise  at  the  effect  produced  at  the  closing  of  the  Second  Act. 
The  rising  of  the  Gladiators  in  the  arena,  and  the  disposition  of  the 
characters  as  the  Act  drop  fell,  I  do  not  believe  was  ever  surpassed  in 
any  theatre  in  the  world." 

The  play  moves  on  from  this  climax  of  action  to  a  greater  climax  of 
character.  Pharsarius  demands  a  captive,  Julia,  the  niece  of  Crassus,  the 
praetor,  as  his  prize,  and  Spartacus  determines  to  save  her.  This  is  the 
real  climax,  for  the  defection  of  Pharsarius  is  the  countermotive  which 
brings  on  the  catastrophe.  Spartacus  also  rejects  the  offers  of  Crassus  to 
ransom  Julia  and,  when  Jovius,  the  Ambassador,  tells  him  that  "Rome 
does  not  war  on  women,"  he  replies  in  a  speech  that  was  often  singled 
out  for  comment: 

Spartacus:     Men  do  not  war  on  women!  Look  you; 
One  day  I  clomb  upon  the  ridgy  top 
Of  the  cloud-piercing  Haemus,  where,  among 
The  eagles  and  the  thunders,  from  that  height, 
I  looked  upon  the  world— or,  far  as  where, 
Wrestling  with  storms,  the  gloomy  Euxine  chafed 
On  his  recoiling  shores;  and  where  dim  Adria 
In  her  blue  bosom  quenched  the  fiery  sphere. 
Between  these  surges— lay  a  land,  might  once 
Have  matched  Elysium,  but  Rome  had  made  it 
A  Tartarus.  In  my  green  youth  I  look'd 
From  the  same  frosty  peak  where  now  I  stood, 
And  then  beheld  the  glory  of  those  lands, 
Where  peace  was  tinkling  on  the  shepherd's  bell 
And  singing  with  the  reapers;  or  beneath 
The  shade  of  thatch  eaves,  smiled  with  grey  old  men, 
And  with  their  children  laughed  along  the  green. 
11  Wemyss,  Life  of  an  Actor  and  Manager,  Vol.  i,  p.  194. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  477 

Since  that  glad  day,  Rome's  conquerers  had  passed 
With  withering  armies  there,  and  all  was  changed; 
Peace  had  departed;  howling  war  was  there, 
Cheered  on  by  Roman  hunters:  then,  me  thought, 
Even  as  I  looked  upon  the  altered  scene, 
Groans  echoed  through  the  valleys,  through  which  ran 
Rivers  of  blood,  like  smoking  Phlegethons; 
Fires  flashed  from  burning  villages,  and  famine 
Shriek'd  in  the  empty  cornfields.  Women  and  children 
Robb'd  of  their  sires  and  husbands,  left  to  starve— 
These  were  the  dwellers  of  the  land!  Say'st  thou 
Rome  wars  not  then  on  women! 

Forrest  selected  The  Gladiator  to  make  his  initial  appearance  in  London, 
at  Drury  Lane,  on  October  17,  1836.  He  scored  an  instant  success,  and 
the  criticisms  next  day  were  generally  appreciative.  The  Courier  stated 
that  "America  has  at  length  vindicated  her  capability  of  producing  a 
dramatist  of  the  highest  order,  whose  claims  should  be  unequivocally 
acknowledged  by  the  Mother  Country."  12  The  London  Times  spoke 
with  discrimination  of  the  play,  praising  especially  the  passage  just 
quoted.  It  was  a  severe  test  for  the  work  of  a  youth  of  twenty-five  to 
be  played  in  a  repertoire  made  up  almost  exclusively  of  the  plays  of 
Shakespeare,  and  the  fact  that  he  was  elected  a  member  of  the  Dramatic 
Authors'  Society  of  London,  following  the  production  of  The  Gladiator ; 
testifies  to  the  prompt  and  generous  recognition  of  his  talents  in  Eng- 
land. 

Forrest  acted  The  Gladiator  until  his  retirement  from  the  stage  in  1872. 
A  statement  is  made  among  the  manuscripts,  on  the  occasion  of  the  one- 
thousandth  performance  in  1853,  that  it  was  the  first  play  written  in 
English  that  had  been  played  one  thousand  times  within  the  lifetime  of 
the  author.  Whether  this  be  true  or  not,  it  had  a  vitality  which  held  the 
stage  until  the  close  of  the  century.  John  McCullough  played  it  many 
times,  and  on  the  last  night,  September  29,  1884,  on  which,  with  his  mind 
failing,  he  bade  his  tragic  farewell  to  the  stage,  he  acted  Spartacus.  After 
his  death  it  was  performed  by  Robert  Downing,  as  late  as  March  29, 
1893,  at  tne  Grand  Opera  House,  New  York.  Robert  McLean  was  also 
acting  in  the  part  during  the  season  of  1892-93. 

Encouraged  by  his  success,  Bird  promptly  set  to  work  on  a  new  tragedy, 
and  this  time  selected  a  theme  from  South  America,  anticipating  Prescott 
by  about  fifteen  years.  His  interest  in  the  Spanish-American  countries 
was  great  and  continuous,  being  kindled  by  the  successful  revolutions  in 
Mexico  and  among  the  South  American  republics,  which  had  led  to  the 
enunciation  of  the  Monroe  Doctrine  in  1823. 

The  background  in  Peruvian  history  was  studied  with  Bird's  unusual 

12  W.  L.  Alger,  Life  of  Edwin  Forrest  (Philadelphia,  1887),  Vol.  1,  p.  299. 


478  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

zeal  and  industry.13  He  selected  one  of  the  most  dramatic  moments,  the 
insurrection  of  the  younger  Almagro,  and  the  assassination  of  Francisco 
Pizarro.  Not  finding  a  hero,  however,  in  the  Almagrist  party,  he  created 
the  character  of  Oralloossa,  the  son  and  heir  of  Atahualpa,  the  Inca  who 
had  been  put  to  death  by  Pizarro.  Him  he  made  the  symbol  of  the  Peru- 
vian desire  for  freedom,  and  to  him  he  assigned  the  actual  killing  of 
Pizarro.  Diego  de  Almagro  became  then  the  animating  force  of  the  coun- 
termotive,  whose  treachery  brought  about  the  betrayal  of  Oralloossa  by 
his  own  people,  his  ruin  and  death.  The  power  of  Spain,  which  finally 
triumphs,  is  symbolized  by  the  Viceroy,  Vaca  de  Castro,  whom  Bird 
brings  on  the  scene,  in  disregard  of  history,  to  play  the  part  of  retributive 
justice  and  to  punish  the  double  traitor  Almagro. 

Oralloossa  has  not  the  force  of  The  Gladiator  or  the  proportions  of 
Pelopidas.  There  is  too  little  humanity  in  the  hero,  while  his  weakness, 
treachery,  and  deceit,  even  for  a  patriot's  cause,  do  not  appeal  to  an  audi- 
ence. The  play  has,  however,  its  high  spots,  especially  the  banquet  murder 
scene  and  the  fourth  scene  of  Act  IV,  in  which  Oralloossa  is  betrayed 
and  his  sister  Orallie  is  doomed  to  be  buried  alive.  Oralloossa  was  first 
performed  by  Forrest  at  the  Arch  Street  Theatre,  Philadelphia,  October 
10,  1832,  with  a  sumptuous  setting.  Wemyss  did  not  like  it  as  well  as 
The  Gladiator,  but  his  opinion  was  doubtless  colored  by  the  unlucky 
accident  in  which  two  of  his  teeth  were  removed  through  Forrest's 
sword  thrust  at  Don  Christoval,  in  which  part  Wemyss  was  playing. 
Forrest  played  Oralloossa  as  late  as  1847  at  the  Park  Theatre,  but  gradu- 
ally withdrew  it  from  his  repertoire. 

Bird  had  provided  Forrest  with  two  tragedies  in  which  the  vigor  and 
power  of  that  actor  had  been  emphasized.  With  a  real  understanding  of 
Forrest's  capabilities,  he  next  wrote  for  him  a  play  which  permitted  the 
finer  qualities  of  this  great  romantic  actor's  art  to  find  expression.  The 
Broker  of  Bogota  is  easily  the  best  of  Bird's  plays.  The  scene  is  laid  in 
Santa  Fe  de  Bogota;  the  time  is  not  clearly  indicated,  but  is  probably  the 
eighteenth  century.  The  great  appeal  of  The  Broker  of  Bogota  lies  in  its 
fidelity  to  human  nature.  In  his  other  plays,  Bird's  hero  had  been  a  public 
character  and  his  personal  concerns  had  been  frequently,  through  their 
counterclaims  upon  his  sympathy,  the  causes  of  his  tragedy.  In  The 
Broker  the  situation  is  a  domestic  one.  Baptista  Febro  is  a  moneylender, 
honest  and  trusted,  his  two  outstanding  qualities  being  his  love  for  his 
children  and  his  regard  for  his  personal  and  business  integrity.  Ramon, 

13  He  made  copious  extracts  from  A  Historical  and  Descriptive  Narrative  of 
Twenty  Years'  Residence  in  South  America,  by  W.  B.  Stevenson  (London,  1825); 
Travels  in  Various  Parts  of  Peru,  by  Edmund  Temple  (London,  1830),  and  Travels 
into  Chile,  over  the  Andes,  by  Peter  Schmidtmeyer  (London,  1824),  but  he  used 
only  some  few  historical  facts  and  the  general  atmosphere.  He  refers  also  to  Ranking's 
Conquest  of  Peru,  and  a  list  of  220  works  on  North  and  South  America  is  to  be 
found  among  the  MSS. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  479 

his  eldest  and  weakest  son,  he  loves  best,  but  Ramon  has  been  cast  off 
by  his  father  for  his  dissipation.  His  temptations  are  made  concrete  in 
the  person  of  Caberero,  a  profligate  hidalgo,  whose  deviltry,  never  over- 
emphasized, but  relentless  in  its  cunning,  animates  one  of  the  finest  villains 
of  the  stage. 

In  The  Broker  of  Bogota,  Bird  made  domestic  drama  heroic.  For  the 
sentimentality  which  dominates  plays  like  The  Stranger,  Bird  substituted 
the  pathos  that  springs  from  the  yearning  of  a  father  over  his  erring  son, 
who  had  been  "the  first  life  of  his  mother,"  and  it  is  the  naturalness  of 
Febro,  his  simplicity,  and  the  way  he  remains  true  to  his  middle-class 
standards,  that  secure  our  sympathy.  When  he  attacks  Caberero,  he  fights 
with  the  weapon  of  his  class,  his  money.  When  his  daughter  is  to  be  the 
wife  of  a  noble  gentleman,  he  rejoices.  Yet  he  has  the  pride  of  his  own 
caste,  too,  and  his  dignity  never  entirely  leaves  him,  even  in  distress. 
When  Pablo,  the  low  comedy  villain,  claiming  he  is  turning  state's  evi- 
dence, accuses  Febro  directly  of  robbing  himself,  Febro  breaks  out: 

Now  were  Heaven  just, 
Thou  shouldst  die  with  this  slander  in  thy  throat. 
Monster  of  falsehood!  Has  it  come  to  this? 
Is't  true?  Is't  possible?  A  man  like  me, 
Old— in  the  twilight  of  my  years,  and  looking 
Into  the  dusky  midnight  of  my  grave?  — 
An  old  man,  that  has  lived  a  life  whereon 
No  man  hath  found  a  stain.  Oh!  you  are  mad 
To  think  this  thing  of  me.  A  fraud!  A  fraud! 
What,  I  commit  it?  With  these  gray  hairs,  too? 
And  without  aim  save  to  enrich  that  rogue 
Who  swears  away  my  life? 

The  character  of  Juana,  the  heroine,  proved  too  that  Bird  could  sound 
with  delicacy  the  note  of  a  love  founded  on  the  friendship  of  a  boy  and 
girl,  fragrant  with  the  affection  of  many  years.  Unlike  the  conventional, 
merely  passive,  heroine  of  romance,  she  dominated  the  stage  in  a  poignant 
scene  in  which  she  had  to  trick  Ramon  into  the  confession  that  kills  her 
love  for  him. 

The  Broker  of  Bogota  was  first  produced  at  the  Bowery  Theatre,  New 
York,  on  February  12,  1834.  Among  the  manuscripts  is  found  this  letter 
from  Forrest  written  the  night  of  the  performance: 

Dear  Bird: 

I  have  just  left  the  theatre — your  tragedy  was  performed  and  crowned 
with  entire  success.  "The  Broker  of  Bogota"  will  live  when  our  vile  trunks 
are  rotten. 

Forrest  produced  The  Broker  in  Philadelphia,  on  June  11,  1834.  ^ 
remained  one  of  his  favorite  plays,  was  acted  on  his  second  trip  abroad 


480  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  1845,  and  was  performed  by  him  until  the  last  year  of  his  stage  appear- 
ance. After  his  death  John  McCullough  acted  in  it  occasionally. 

Bird's  last  dramatic  work  was  the  rewriting  of  Metamora,  an  Indian 
play  by  John  A.  Stone.  Forrest  claimed  in  1856  that  he  had  not  used  the 
work  of  Dr.  Bird,  and  he  certainly  did  not  pay  for  it.  But  he  retained 
the  manuscript,  notwithstanding  various  requests  to  return  it. 

That  Bird  should  have  ceased  to  write  plays,  after  having  produced 
one  great  popular  success  in  The  Gladiator  and  a  still  greater  artistic  suc- 
cess in  The  Broker  of  Bogota,  was  due  to  his  disappointment  at  the  finan- 
cial returns  from  his  dramatic  work  and  to  his  treatment  at  the  hands  of 
Edwin  Forrest.  His  relations  with  the  latter  reveal  clearly  the  conditions 
that  discouraged  American  playwrights  of  that  time.  Forrest  and  Bird 
were  not  only  actor  and  dramatist— they  were  personal  friends.  In  1833 
they  journeyed  together  through  the  South  and  West.  They  remained 
in  constant  and  friendly  relation  until  the  return  of  Forrest  from  Europe. 
Then  in  1837  a  demand  from  Forrest  for  the  payment  of  a  note  for  $2000, 
which  Bird  believed  to  have  been  canceled  by  royalties  due  him  precipi- 
tated a  stormy  meeting  at  which  they  parted  forever.  Bird's  own  statement 
of  their  financial  relations  is  as  follows: 

The  state  of  affairs  between  us  is  simply  this.  I  have  received  from  him  $1000 
on  each  of  my  plays,  The  Gladiator,  Oralloossa,  and  The  Broker  of  Bogota, 
and  $2000  in  loans  for  which  he  has  my  note,  in  all  $5000.  But  he  owes  me 
still  (if  there  was  a  bargain  between  us,  as  I  supposed  there  was)  $2000  on 
each  of  these  plays,  in  all  $6000,  minus  the  $2000  loan,  that  is  $4000.  He  owes 
me  also  $2000  for  Metamora,  rewritten,  for  so  much  I  think  it  worth. 

How  did  this  misunderstanding  arise?  The  account  books,  manuscript 
statements,  and  legal  correspondence  among  the  Bird  papers  make  the 
situation  clear.  Bird,  as  a  young  dramatist,  was  flattered  by  Forrest's 
approval  and  was  glad  to  sell  him  Felopidas  for  $1000.  When  it  seemed 
best  to  substitute  The  Gladiator  he  agreed  orally  to  take  a  first  payment 
of  that  amount,  with  a  later  payment  of  $2000  if  the  play  was  successful. 
No  contract  was  signed,  apparently,  and  Bird  supposed  the  same  terms 
were  to  apply  to  Oralloossa  and  The  Broker  of  Bogota,  and  in  each  case 
he  was  paid  $1000  for  these  plays,  and  no  more.  For  Felopidas  and  Meta- 
mora nothing  was  paid.  Some  years  afterward,  his  friend,  Senator  Clayton, 
advised  him  that  since  his  only  witness,  Dr.  McClellan,  was  dead,  he  had 
no  legal  redress.  There  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  Bird  trusted  Forrest's 
word,  his  sense  of  justice,  and,  to  a  certain  extent,  his  generosity,  and  that 
Forrest,  having  possession  of  the  plays  and  having  paid  a  minimum  sum 
which  Bird  had  accepted,  felt  legally  safe.  That  he  did  not  sue  on  the 
note  shows  that  he  did  not  wish  to  make  the  transaction  public.  It  would 
not  have  been  to  his  interest  to  do  so  for,  while  his  understanding  of  the 
agreement  may  have  differed  from  Bird's,  there  can  be  no  question  that 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  481 

he  treated  the  playwright  unfairly.  From  The  Gladiator  alone  his  profits 
were  enormous.  By  December,  1853,  it  had  been  played  one  thousand 
times,  and  never  to  profits  of  less  than  several  hundred  dollars.  From  The 
Broker  Forrest  made  many  thousands.  And  for  those  two  plays  Bird  was 
paid  $2000!  Even  on  the  old  benefit  system  of  "third  nights"  Bird  should 
have  received  at  least  $5000  apiece,  and  we  have  seen  what  value  Burton 
attached  to  Felopidas. 

But  there  is  another  chapter  in  which  Forrest  appears  in  even  a  worse 
light.  The  American  dramatist  was  unprotected  by  the  copyright  laws,  and 
the  play  having  once  been  purchased  by  a  producer  he  usually  ceased  to 
have  any  rights  that  the  public  or  the  producer  respected.  There  was  still, 
however,  his  literary  reputation.  Forrest  steadily  refused  to  allow  any 
play  that  he  controlled  to  be  printed,  fearing  that  it  might  be  performed 
by  some  other  actor. 

In  1869,  Dr.  Bird's  son  requested  permission  to  publish  his  father's  plays 
and  was  met  by  a  curt  refusal  from  Forrest,  who  informed  him  that  "these 
plays  are  my  exclusive  property,  by  the  right  of  purchase,  and  for  many 
years  by  the  law  of  copyright."  The  attitude  that  a  play  did  not  belong 
to  the  playwright  is  one  of  the  many  reasons  why  the  masterpieces  of 
this  period  have  had  to  wait  so  long  for  recognition.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
search  in  the  Copyright  Office  revealed  no  copyright  taken  out  by 
Forrest! 

Dr.  Bird's  withdrawal  from  dramatic  authorship  may  therefore  be 
understood.  He  turned  next  to  producing  novels,  which  have  already 
been  discussed.  Of  these,  The  Infidel,  Nick  of  the  Woods,  and  The  Hawks 
of  Hawk  Hollow  were  dramatized  by  other  hands. 

Farming,  journalism,  and  politics  occupied  Bird's  attention  during  the 
latter  part  of  his  life.  He  was  editor  and  part  proprietor  of  the  North 
American  in  Philadelphia  and  took  an  active  interest  in  Whig  politics, 
especially  in  Delaware,  his  native  state,  where  his  farm  lay.  He  was  rich 
in  friendship  if  not  in  money,  and  the  many  letters  among  his  manuscript 
papers  testify  to  the  unvarying  respect  and  confidence  in  which  he  was 
held  by  the  men  of  his  time.  The  correspondence  with  Senator  Clayton, 
Secretary  of  State  under  Taylor,  reveals  interesting  sidelights  on  the 
political  history  both  men  were  making.  Dr.  Bird  declined  nomination 
to  both  the  House  of  Representatives  and  the  Senate.  He  had  married 
in  1838,  Mary,  the  daughter  of  Reverend  Philip  F.  Mayer,  a  Lutheran 
clergyman.  Written  in  her  fine  hand,  a  life  of  her  husband  reveals  indi- 
rectly the  inspiration  she  was  to  him. 

Bird  died,  literally  worn  out  by  his  work,  on  January  23,  1854.  His  life 
was  a  brave  struggle  for  the  right  to  create,  and  had  he  lived  in  a  time 
when  the  American  playwright  received  fair  treatment,  it  is  not  easy 
to  put  a  limit  to  his  possible  achievements.  For  he  had  a  rare  sense  of 
dramatic  effect,  a  power  to  visualize  historic  scenes  and  characters,  to 


482  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

seize  the  spirit  of  the  past  out  of  the  mass  of  facts  and,  in  a  few  brief  lines, 
to  fuse  those  facts  into  life.  Before  he  was  thirty  years  old  he  had  lifted 
romantic  tragedy  to  a  level  higher  than  it  had  reached  in  English  since 
Congreve  and  had  written  plays  which  even  today  can  be  placed  on  the 
stage  with  effect.14  Tireless  as  was  his  literary  energy,  one  who  has  lived 
with  him  in  the  intimate  relationships  revealed  by  his  manuscripts,  feels 
even  more  the  sterling  character  which  faced  with  unshrinking  courage 
the  tragedy  of  an  American  man  of  letters  in  the  days  that  tried  the  soul 
of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  and  broke  the  heart  of  Edgar  Poe. 


Notwithstanding  the  difficulties  and  discouragements  that  beset  the 
American  dramatist,  the  impulse  to  write  plays  seemed  irrepressible.  For 
reasons  that  have  been  given,  this  impulse  centered  most  definitely  in 
Philadelphia,  and  there  arose  a  group  of  playwrights  who  knew  each  other 
and  who  were  stimulated  to  write  through  the  encouragement  offered 
by  the  rivalry  of  the  theatres.  Bird  and  Penn  Smith  were  the  most  signifi- 
cant, but  there  were  others  of  ability  who  contributed  to  the  rise  of  a 
drama  which  had  as  a  foundation  a  real  love  of  literature  and  a  practical 
knowledge  of  stagecraft.  The  best  work  was  done  in  the  field  of  the  roman- 
tic play,  usually  with  its  roots  in  history,  ancient  and  medieval.  Probably 
the  earliest  attempt  to  place  Irish  history  on  the  stage  was  made  by  Dr. 
James  McHenry,  whose  tragedy  of  The  Usurper,  laid  in  Druidical  times, 
was  produced  at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre,  December  26,  1827.  The 
blank  verse  is  quite  fair  and  the  play,  although  long-drawn-out,  is  inter- 
esting. Sertorhis:  or,  The  Roman  Patriot,  by  David  Paul  Brown,  a  dis- 
tinguished member  of  the  Philadelphia  bar,  was  produced  at  the  Chestnut 
Street  Theatre,  on  December  14,  1830,  with  Junius  Brutus  Booth  in  the 
title  role.  Sertorius  is  based  upon  Plutarch's  life  of  that  hero  and  is  true  to 
history.  It  has  fine  passages  but  lacks  action.  Booth  revived  it  on  February 
6,  1832,  at  the  Arch  Street  Theatre,  "with  perfect  success."  ir>  Brown's 
romantic  comedy,  The  Prophet  of  St.  PauVs,  was  played  March  20,  1837, 
at  the  Walnut  Street  Theatre.  It  is  concerned  with  a  royal  love  story, 
and  can  best  be  appreciated  when  compared  with  a  play  upon  the  same 
theme  in  later  times,  When  Knighthood  Was  in  Flower.  Next  to  Bird  and 
Smith,  Robert  T.  Conrad  was  the  best  of  the  Philadelphia  group.  His 
most  important  play  was  Jack  Cade  or  Aylmere,  as  it  was  variously 
called.  It  is  a  tragedy  centering  upon  the  Kentish  rebellion  of  1450,  which 
had  Jack  Cade  for  a  leader.  The  revolt  had  in  reality  a  political  rather 
than  a  social  or  economic  basis,  but  Conrad  rightly  judged  that  personal 

14  On  May  21,  1920,  the  Zelosophic  Society  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania 
reproduced  The  Broker  of  Bogota,  and,  notwithstanding  the  obvious  limitations  of 
an  amateur  performance,  the  merits  of  the  play  were  apparent. 

15  W.  B.  Wood,  Personal  Recollections  of  the  Stage  (1855),  p.  363. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  483 

oppression  of  serfs  and  yeomen  would  form  a  better  dramatic  motive 
than  the  struggle  for  political  rights  and  freedom  of  elections.  Jack  Cade 
becomes,  therefore,  the  symbol  of  rebellion  against  the  arbitrary  power 
of  the  nobles,  while  the  starvation  of  the  peasants,  the  attacks  upon  Mari- 
amne,  Cade's  wife,  and  the  violent  prevention  of  the  marriage  of  Kate 
Worthy  and  Will  Mowbray  by  Lord  Say,  are  transferred  from  an  earlier 
state  of  affairs  to  the  time  of  the  play. 

The  writing  of  romantic  drama  was,  of  course,  not  confined  to  Phila- 
delphia, but  in  other  places  it  was  more  sporadic  and  had  less  unity  of 
purpose.  The  success  of  Payne's  Brutus  and  Knowles'  Virginius,  and  the 
study  of  ancient  history,  more  usually  a  part  of  the  school  curriculum 
then  than  now,  probably  account  for  the  number  of  historical  heroes 
placed  upon  the  stage.  One  of  the  best,  from  the  point  of  view  of  char- 
acter drawing,  occurs  in  Waldimar  (1831),  by  John  J.  Bailey,  of  New 
York,  in  which  Charles  Kean  acted  the  part  of -Waldimar. 

#         *         # 

It  was  in  his  best  period  that  Nathaniel  Parker  Willis  wrote  his  verse 
dramas,  which  have  been  even  more  singularly  neglected  than  his  charm- 
ing essays.  Bia?ica  Visconti  is  a  blank  verse  tragedy,  which  was  written 
in  competition  for  a  prize  offered  by  Josephine  Clifton  for  the  best  play 
suited  to  her  talent.  It  was  played  first  August  25,  1837,  at  the  Park 
Theatre,  where  Miss  Clifton  made  a  powerful  impression  as  Bianca,  and 
it  held  the  stage  until  1852.  The  tragedy  concerns  a  real  character,  Fran- 
cesco Sforza,  who  married  the  natural  daughter  of  Philip  Visconti  and, 
later,  became  Duke  of  Milan.  The  poetic  vein  that  lay  in  Willis  showed 
in  many  passages  and  in  the  characters  of  Sforza,  Bianca,  and  Giulio,  her 
brother,  whose  death  caused  by  Bianca  to  save  Francesco,  brings  on  the 
tragedy.  Willis  tried  to  write  a  native  comedy  for  Miss  Clifton,  but  The 
Kentucky  Heiress  was  performed  unsuccessfully  on  November  29,  1837. 
Driven  back  fortunately  to  the  field  in  which  his  real  strength  lay,  he 
wrote  another  verse  play,  this  time  a  romantic  comedy,  which  challenges 
comparison  with  any  contemporary  play  of  its  kind  in  English.  As  Poe 
well  said: 

Its  merits  lie  among  the  higher  and  most  difficult  dramatic  qualities.  These 
merits  are  naturalness,  truthfulness  and  appropriateness  upon  all  occasions,  of 
sentiment  and  language;  a  manly  vigor  and  breadth  in  the  conception  of 
character;  and  a  few  ideal  elevations  or  exaggerations  throughout — a  matter 
forgotten  or  avoided  by  those  who,  with  true  Flemish  perception  of  truth, 
wish  to  copy  her  peculiarities  in  disarray.16 

Tortesa  the  Usurer  was  written  for  James  William  Wallack,  who 
produced  it  at  the  National  Theatre,  New  York,  April  8,  1839.  It  was 
very  successful,  and  Wallack  considered  that  in  Tortesa  he  had  one  of  his 

16  Burton'' s  Gentleman's  Magazine,  August,  1839. 


484  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

best  parts.  When  Wallack  returned  for  a  time  to  England  after  the  burn- 
ing of  the  National  Theatre,  he  produced  Tortesa  at  the  Surrey  Theatre, 
in  August,  1839,  and  acted  the  character  frequently.  The  first  professional 
appearance  of  his  son,  Lester  Wallack,  after  he  arrived  at  manhood,  was 
made  in  the  part  of  Angelo,  when  he  supported  his  father  on  this  tour.17 
In  Tortesa,  Willis  created  the  character  of  a  moneylender,  no  longer  in 
his  first  youth,  but  still  vigorous,  who  determines  to  marry  Isabella,  the 
daughter  of  Count  Falcone.  The  merit  of  the  play  lies  in  the  excellent 
drawing  of  the  characters.  They  are  human  beings,  not  abstractions,  and 
they  are  drawn  with  that  reality  which  adds  life  to  romance.  It  is  not  for 
plot  that  Willis  is  noteworthy.  It  is  for  his  sensitive  understanding  of  the 
transformation  through  true  love  of  the  moneylender  to  the  gentleman, 
and  for  the  manner  in  which  he  has,  without  making  the  language  stilted, 
placed  such  excellent  poetry  in  the  mouths  of  his  characters.  This  may 
be  illustrated  by  the  appeal  of  Zippa,  the  glover's  daughter,  to  Isabella, 
to  give  her  back  her  lover: 

Zippa:     You  mock  me! 

You  are  a  woman,  though  your  brow's  a  rock, 
And  know  what  love  is.  In  a  ring  of  fire 
The  tortured  scorpion  stings  himself,  to  die — 
But  love  will  turn  upon  itself,  and  grow 
Of  its  own  fang  immortal. 

or  Tortesa's  offer  to  free  Isabella: 

Tortesa:     I  see  you  here  again!  You  are  my  bride! 

Your  father  holds  me  to  my  bargain  for  you! 
The  lights  are  burning  on  the  nuptial  altar— 
The  bridal  chamber  and  the  feast,  all  ready! 
What  stays  the  marriage  now?—  my  new  born  love! 
That  nuptial  feast  were  fruit  from  Paradise— 
I  cannot  touch  it  till  you  bid  me  welcome! 
That  nuptial  chamber  were  the  lap  of  Heaven— 
I  cannot  enter  till  you  call  me  in! 

(Takes  a  ring  from  his  bosom) 
Here  is  the  golden  ring  you  should  have  worn. 
Tell  me  to  give  it  to  my  rival  there— 
I'll  break  my  heart  to  do  so! 

(Holds  it  toward  Angelo) 

The  resemblances  in  plot  to  Romeo  and  Juliet  and  to  The  Winter's 
Tale  are  sufficiently  evident,  and  for  the  episode  of  Isabella's  revival, 
the  play  goes  back  to  the  Florentine  story  of  Genevra  degli  Amieri.18 

17  Lester  Wallack,  Memories  of  Fifty  Years  (1889),  p.  35. 

18  The  origin  of  Genevra  is  to  be  found  in  the  story  of  "La  Sepolta  Viva,"  included 
in  La  Novella  di  Grasso  Legnaiuolo,  by  Domcnico  Maria  Manni  (Florence,  1744). 
The  Genevra  episode  is  translated  in  full  in  Thomas  Roscoe's  The  Italian  Novelists 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  485 

The  literary  fashion  which  placed  the  scenes  of  the  romantic  play  more 
and  more  frequently  in  France,  Italy,  or  Spain,  and  the  way  in  which  a 
dramatic  motive  leaps  over  time  and  space,  are  illustrated  in  a  striking  man- 
ner in  the  origin  and  career  of  Octavia  Bragaldi:  or,  The  Confession,  by 
Charlotte  Barnes  Conner.  The  daughter  of  the  well-known  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
John  Barnes,  the  latter  long  the  favorite  comedienne  of  the  Park  Theatre, 
Charlotte  Barnes  was  herself  an  actress  and  her  plays  show  the  technical 
skill  that  such  training  brings.  Octavia  Bragaldi,  laid  in  Milan  in  the 
fifteenth  century,  was  first  produced  at  the  National  Theatre,  New  York, 
November  9,  1837,  with  Miss  Barnes  in  the  title  role,  and  it  was  repeated 
in  almost  every  city  in  the  Union.  It  is  possible  that  the  origin  of  the  play 
caused  some  of  this  popularity.  In  1825,  in  Frankfort,  Kentucky,  Colonel 
Beauchamp  killed  Colonel  Sharpe  on  the  discovery  that  the  latter  had 
seduced  his  wife  before  Beauchamp  had  married  her.  Beauchamp  was 
convicted  of  murder,  and  he  and  his  wife  attempted  suicide  in  his  cell 
the  night  before  the  execution.  Beauchamp  was  unsuccessful  in  his  at- 
tempt and  was  actually  hanged.  The  case  attracted  wide  attention  and 
soon  after  began  to  appear  in  literature.  T.  H.  Chivers'  drama  of  Conrad 
and  Eudora  (1834)  seems  to  have  been  the  first  published.  Next  came 
Poe's  dramatic  fragment,  Politian  (1835),  which  clearly  reflects  the  inci- 
dent, placed  in  Rome  in  the  seventeenth  century.  The  most  interesting 
link  in  this  chain,  however,  lies  in  the  fact  that,  while  Poe  and  Miss 
Barnes  had  so  far  felt  it  necessary  to  change  the  scene  of  the  tragedy, 
the  novelists  placed  the  story  among  its  real  surroundings.  William  Gil- 
more  Simms  wrote  his  border  romance,  Beauchampe,  in  1842,  upon  the 
theme.  By  1858,  when  John  Savage  dramatized  Beauchampe,  under  the 
title  of  Sybil,  he  felt  it  possible  to  stage  his  tragedy  in  Kentucky,  and  to 
produce  the  play  in  Louisville  as  well  as  in  St.  Louis,  New  York  and 
Philadelphia.  It  is  a  significant  revelation  of  the  different  standards  of  the 
stage  and  of  fiction,  and  of  the  methods  of  the  romantic  tragedy  of  the 
thirties. 

Miss  Barnes  produced  the  play  in  London  and  Liverpool,  and  continued 
to  present  it  as  late  as  1854,  when  she  and  her  husband,  E.  S.  Conner, 
played  it  at  the  Bowery  Theatre.  Of  her  other  plays,  The  Forest  Princess, 
will  be  discussed  under  the  Indian  drama,  and  the  rest  have  come  down 
only  by  title. 

In  Boston,  the  outstanding  figure  was  that  of  Epes  Sargent  (1814-80), 
a  journalist  of  distinction.  His  Bride  of  Genoa  was  played  first  by  Jo- 
sephine Clifton  in  Boston,  at  the  Tremont  Theatre,  on  February  13,  1837. 
It  is  a  romantic  drama,  laid  in  Genoa  in  1393,  and  is  concerned  with  the 
struggles  of  the  patrician  and  plebeian  orders.  Velasco,  his  most  important 

(London,  1836),  2nd  edition,  Vol.  4,  pp.  251-260.  Shelley  had  used  the  story  in  182 1 
in  his  fragments,  Genevra,  and  Leigh  Hunt  afterward  made  it  the  theme  of  his  Legend 
of  Florence  (1847). 


486  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

play,  was  produced  at  the  Tremont  Theatre,  November  20,  1837.  The 
scene  is  laid  in  Burgos,  Spain,  about  1046,  the  general  action  of  the  piece 
being  based,  according  to  the  author,  on  the  career  of  Rodrigo  Diaz,  the 
Cid.  When  the  Marylebone  Theatre  in  London  was  opened  for  the  season 
of  1849-50,  Velasco  was  chosen  as  the  attraction,  E.  L.  Davenport  acting 
Velasco  and  Fanny  Vining,  Izidora.19  It  was  several  times  repeated.  It 
deserved  its  success,  for  the  plot  is  well  knit,  the  tragedy  is  inevitable,  and 
the  language,  at  times  powerful,  is  always  adequate.  Sargent  drew  well 
the  character  of  the  impetuous  Spaniard  of  the  eleventh  century,  with 
his  keen  sense  of  family  honor,  before  whose  claims  love  itself  struggled 
without  avail. 

There  was  undoubtedly  more  playwriting  in  the  South  and  Middle 
West  than  has  come  down  to  us.  The  early  theatrical  pioneers  in  Cincin- 
nati, Vicksburg,  New  Orleans,  Mobile,  and  St.  Louis  have  left  many 
records  of  their  labors,  but  they  belong  to  theatrical  rather  than  to 
dramatic  history. 

The  best  of  the  Southerners  was  George  H.  Miles  (1824-71),  a  lawyer 
and  teacher  in  Baltimore.  His  tragedy,  Mohammed,  was  written  in  com- 
petition for  a  prize  of  one  thousand  dollars  offered  by  Forrest.  The 
committee  was  unable  to  select,  from  among  the  eighty  plays  submitted, 
one  that  met  the  conditions,  but  Forrest  sent  the  prize  to  Miles  as  the 
competitor  who  had  most  nearly  fulfilled  them.20  Forrest  did  not  use  the 
play,  but  it  was  performed  in  New  York,  in  1851,  with  Neafie  as  Moham- 
med. Mohammed  is  conceived  as  a  man  who  believes  in  his  mission  to 
free  Arabia  from  idolatry,  but  invents  the  visions  that  give  him  super- 
natural authority.  The  blank  verse  is  above  the  average,  the  action  is 
fairly  rapid,  and  the  characters  are  distinct. 

By  the  middle  of  the  century  the  romantic  play  was  firmly  established 
and  was  yet  to  achieve  greater  artistic  triumphs.  To  the  superficial  ob- 
server its  significance  has  been  obscured  by  its  foreign  setting,  and  to  the 
canon  of  dramatic  art  that  demands  local  themes,  a  canon  that  has  never 
been  applied  except  to  America,  it  cannot  respond,  particularly  to  those 
who  know  its  masterpieces  only  by  title.  But  to  the  historian  who  reads 
the  plays  of  this  group  of  writers,  especially  those  who  wrote  in  Phila- 
delphia from  1825  to  1840,  with  constant  reference  to  the  political  and 
social  ideals  of  America  in  that  day,  the  essentially  native  flavor  of  this 
drama  becomes  apparent.  It  was  no  accident  that  Cains  Marius  should 
celebrate  the  revolt  of  the  Roman  populace  against  oligarchy;  Metamora, 
the  revolt  of  the  Indians' against  the  encroachments  of  the  whites;  Felo- 
pidas,  the  revolt  of  the  Thebans  against  the  tyranny  of  Sparta;  The 
Gladiator,  the  revolt  of  the  slaves  against  their  Roman  masters;  Oral- 
loossa,  the  revolt  of  the  Indians  against  their  Spanish  conquerors;  The 

19  Sec  Anna  Cora  Mowatt,  Autobiography  of  an  Actress  (1854),  p.  309. 

20  Alger,  Life,  Vol.  1,  p.  169. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  487 

Broker  of  Bogota  and  Tortesa  the  Usurer,  the  resentment  of  the  merchant 
class  against  the  oppression  of  a  ruling  caste;  The  Bride  of  Genoa,  the 
revolt  of  the  plebeians  against  the  patrician  order;  Sertorius,  the  revolt  of 
Spain  against  Roman  rule;  and  Jack  Cade,  the  rebellion  of  the  commons 
against  the  tyranny  of  the  English  barons.  At  that  time  democracy  was 
the  dominant  political  note.  The  Grecian  Revolution  of  1829,  the  revolt 
of  the  South  American  republics  against  Spain,  and  the  establishment  of 
a  constitution  in  Spain  itself,  the  French  Revolution  of  1830,  the  struggle 
of  Poland  for  freedom,  were  in  the  air.  But  the  most  vital  inspiration  was 
the  triumph  of  democratic  institutions  at  home.  The  election  of  Andrew 
Jackson  in  1828  showed  the  preference  of  the  people  of  the  United  States 
for  democracy.  It  was  not,  however,  a  matter  of  politics  in  a  narrow 
sense.  Smith  was  a  Democrat,  but  Bird  and  Conrad  were  active  Whigs. 
It  was  the  general  sympathy  with  those  who  opposed  political  oppression 
that  caused  these  plays  to  be  written  and  made  them  popular.  The  native 
historical  plays  of  the  Revolution  were  many:  they  are  obviously  the 
result  of  this  same  feeling,  but  that  it  should  animate  the  historical  tragedy 
of  earlier  days  is  even  more  significant.  It  proves,  once  more,  as  Hamlet 
and  The  Merchant  of  Venice  once  proved  triumphantly,  that  play- 
wrights need  not  confine  their  themes  and  situations  to  their  own  locality, 
provided  the  national  point  of  view  is  preserved. 


Just  as  the  mid-century  was  reached  the  romantic  play  turned  in  a 
different  direction  and,  in  the  work  of  one  of  the  greatest  of  our  drama- 
tists, we  find  depicted  the  tragedy  of  the  patrician.  It  may  have  been  a 
coincidence  that  the  year  1848,  which  saw  the  Continent  of  Europe 
swept  by  revolution,  saw  also  the  first  of  his  plays  completed,  and  the 
reaction  which  followed  may  have  caused  even  the  people  of  America 
to  become  more  critical  of  democratic  ideals.  But  there  is  no  doubt  that 
George  Henry  Boker's  sympathy  was,  as  a  matter  of  principle,  exotic. 
The  advice  he  gave  Richard  Henry  Stoddard,  "Read  Chaucer  for  strength, 
read  Spenser  for  ease  and  sweetness,  read  Milton  for  sublimity,  read 
Shakespeare  for  all  these  things  and  for  something  else  which  is  his  alone. 
Get  out  of  your  age  as  far  as  you  can,"  reveals  his  philosophy  of  com- 
position. 

Boker  was  born  in  Philadelphia,  October  6,  1823,  and  grew  up  in  an 
atmosphere  of  material  comfort  and  cultivated  surroundings.  The  Phila- 
delphia of  his  boyhood  was  still  fragrant  with  the  Colonial  tradition, 
classic  in  its  white  marble  steps  and  wrought-iron  balconies,  with  the 
touch  of  romance  in  the  merchant  ships  that  brought  exotic  goods  to  the 
old  docks  along  the  Delaware.  His  dearest  friend  was  Charles  Godfrey 
Leland,  whom  he  introduced  to  Don  Quixote,  for  already  the  charm  of 
Spain  was  upon  him.   Boker   entered  the   College   of   New   Jersey,   as 


488  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Princeton  was  then  called,  as  a  freshman,  on  May  17,  1839.  He  graduated 
in  1842.  His  contributions  to  his  college  journal  show  his  early  acquaint- 
ance with  the  Elizabethan  dramatists. 

After  marriage  to  Julia  Mandeville  Riggs  and  foreign  travel,  he  aban- 
doned law,  which  he  had  studied,  and  definitely  chose  a  literary  career. 
If  anyone  might  have  felt  himself  justified  in  that  day  in  America  in 
choosing  a  literary  career,  it  was  Boker.  He  felt  no  pressure  from  neces- 
sity, he  had  leisure,  and  Philadelphia  was  to  a  certain  extent  still  the  pub- 
lishing center.  Graham's  Magazine,  Sartain's  Union  Magazine,  Peterson's 
Magazine,  and  even  Godey's  Lady's  Book  were  at  their  height.  But  Boker's 
talent  hardly  lay  in  this  direction.  His  first  volume  of  verse,  The  Lesson 
of  Life,  published  in  1848,  contained  only  a  hint  of  his  strength.  But  when 
Calaynos,  his  first  play,  appeared  in  the  same  year,  it  was  at  once  evident 
that  a  new  and  potent  force  in  our  drama  had  arisen.  Calaynos  was  first 
produced  in  London  at  the  Sadler's  Wells  Theatre,  on  May  10,  1849,21 
without  the  author's  consent,  by  the  noted  tragic  actor,  Samuel  Phelps. 
Calaynos  was  first  played  in  this  country  at  the  Walnut  Street  Theatre, 
Philadelphia,  January  20,  1851,  James  E.  Aiurdoch  taking  the  part  of 
Calaynos.  Murdoch  also  played  it  in  Chicago  and  other  cities.  The  main 
theme  of  the  tragedy  is  the  aversion  of  the  Spaniards  to  Moorish  blood. 
The  importance  of  Calaynos  rests  not  so  much  upon  the  plot  as  upon  the 
creation  of  lofty  standards  of  race  and  conduct,  of  an  atmosphere  of 
inevitable  tragedy,  clothed  in  a  blank  verse  already  possessed  of  that 
distinction  which  is  one  of  Boker's  greatest  claims  to  consideration  by 
posterity. 

Boker's  next  play,  Anne  Boleyn,  was  written  for  stage  production,  for 
there  are  among  the  manuscripts  separate  parts  for  the  characters,  and 
the  play  was  evidently  being  considered  favorably  by  some  producing 
manager.  It  was  not  performed,  however,  and,  while  there  is  fine  poetry 
in  it,  it  is  doubtful  whether  it  would  have  had  success  upon  the  stage.  It 
is  unfair,  of  course,  to  compare  one  of  the  less  important  dramas  of  Boker 
with  one  of  the  best  of  Maxwell  Anderson's  plays,  Anne  of  the  Thousand 
Days,  produced  with  a  fine  cast,  a  century  later.  Both  faced  the  difficulty 
of  making  Anne  a  sympathetic  character  on  account  of  her  treatment  of 
Queen  Catharine,  but  Anderson  solved  the  problem  better  by  centering 
his  drama  upon  the  brief  passion  of  Henry  and  Anne. 

The  Betrothal,  Boker's  third  play,  was  first  played  at  the  Walnut  Street 
Theatre,  Philadelphia,  on  September  25,  1850.  It  was  revived  in  Phila- 
delphia the  next  year;  for  in  Durang's  history  we  read:  "December  5th 
(1851),  Mr.  Couldock's  benefit— a  revival  of  the  popular  play  of  The 

21  This  date,  as  well  as  many  others  in  this  chapter  regarding  Boker,  have  been 
derived  from  an  examination  of  the  manuscripts  of  Boker's  plays  and  collateral  state- 
ments bv  him.  These  were  in  the  possession  of  Mrs.  George  Boker,  daughter-in-law 
of  the  dramatist,  whose  unfailing  help  and  courtesy  were  invaluable. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  489 

Betrothal,  written  especially  for  Mr.  E.  A.  Marshall's  theatre  by  G.  H. 
Boker,  Esq.,  and  performed  during  the  last  season  with  as  brilliant  suc- 
cess as  ever  greeted  any  production  within  the  walls  of  the  edifice." 

The  play  had  two  runs  in  New  York  and  was  played  in  England  in 
1853.  The  Betrothal  is  a  delightful  comedy,  laid  in  Tuscany  in  that 
pleasantly  indeterminate  time,  which  may  be  best  described  as  the  age  of 
Romeo  and  Juliet.  The  plot  centers  upon  the  efforts  of  the  Marchioness 
di  Tiburzzi  to  marry  her  daughter,  Costanza,  to  Marzio,  a  rich  merchant, 
to  aid  in  restoring  the  family  fortunes.  After  several  complications  she 
marries  Count  Juranio,  however.  The  play  is  a  definite  improvement  on 
A?777e  Boleyn  and  Calaynos.  It  moves  more  quickly  and  there  is  a  sense  of 
the  characters  dominating  the  situation,  especially  in  the  last  act,  which 
makes  for  real  drama. 

Boker  next  turned  to  prose,  which  it  is  believed  he  realized  was  not 
his  forte,  to  write  a  social  satire,  The  World  a  Mask,  which  even  though 
successfully  produced  in  Philadelphia,  in  1851,  waited  until  1940  for 
publication.  Returning  to  poetry,  he  wrote,  in  1852,  a  comedy  in  blank 
verse  laid  in  England  at  the  time  of  George  II.  This  play,  The  Widow's 
Marriage,  is  an  interesting  one  to  read  and  a  good  actress  might  have 
made  something  out  of  Lady  Goldstraw.  Indeed  the  play  was  accepted 
for  production  by  Marshall,  the  manager  of  the  Walnut  Street  Theatre, 
according  to  a  letter  written  by  Boker,  October  12,  1852,  to  Stoddard,22 
but  he  was  unable  to  find  an  actress  capable  of  impersonating  the  leading 
character.  In  this  play,  as  before,  however,  it  is  in  the  more  serious  pas- 
sages that  Boker  does  his  best  work. 

Returning  to  tragedy,  on  November  14,  1852,  he  wrote  to  Stoddard: 
"I,  prolific  I,  have  just  finished  a  tragedy,  Leonor  de  Guzman.  Her  history 
you  will  find  in  Spanish  chronicles  relating  to  the  reigns  of  Alphonso 
XII  of  Castile,  and  his  son  Peter  the  Cruel.  There  are  no  such  subjects 
for  historical  tragedy  on  earth  as  are  to  be  found  in  the  Spanish  history 
of  that  period." 

Leonor  de  Guzman  was  played  first  at  the  Walnut  Street  Theatre, 
Philadelphia,  October  3,  1853,  with  Julia  Dean  as  Leonor.  According  to 
Durang  it  was  received  with  "warm  approbation"  and  was  interrupted 
only  by  other  claims  on  the  theatre.  It  was  performed  at  the  Broadway 
Theatre,  New  York,  to  houses  considerably  better  even  than  in  Phila- 
delphia. In  Leonor  de  Guzman,  Boker  took  only  the  liberties  with  history 
that  are  necessary  to  a  dramatist.  The  characters  are  all  actual  personages, 
and  the  condition  of  Spain  at  the  time  of  the  *  death  of  Alfonso  XII  is 
accurately  presented.23  Laid  in  Castile,  in   1350,  the  play  is  concerned 

22  Lippincotfs  Magazine,  Vol.  45,  p.  864.  That  the  play  was  seriously  considered  is 
proved  by  the  MSS  made  by  the  copyist  of  the  Walnut  Street  Theatre  in  1852. 

23  For  the  historical  background  see  most  conveniently  Prosper  Merimee,  The 
History  of  Peter  the  Cruel  (London,  1849),  which  was  probably  Boker's  chief  source. 


490  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

with  the  succession  to  the  throne  consequent  upon  Alfonso's  death.  In 
the  First  Act,  the  court  of  Leonor  de  Guzman,  the  King's  mistress,  is 
shown,  and  is  represented  as  being  the  center  of  power  in  Spain.  Really 
dramatic  is  the  scene  in  which,  at  the  news  of  the  death  of  the  King,  the 
courtiers  fall  away  from  her  and  flock  to  Seville,  where  Queen  Maria, 
the  mother  of  the  new  King,  Don  Pedro,  is  staying.  Leonor  was  actually 
killed  by  the  orders  of  the  prime  minister  and  not  by  the  Queen  in  person, 
but  this  was  a  natural  change  and  made  the  tragedy  more  effective.  The 
most  marked  advance  in  Leonor  de  Guzman  lies  in  the  character  draw- 
ing. Boker  has  taken  these  historical  figures  and  endowed  them  with 
life.  Leonor  is  represented  as  being  a  woman  of  noble  character  who 
had  devotedly  loved  the  King.  The  sympathy  of  the  reader  is  generally 
with  her  although  one  cannot  help  appreciating  the  emotions  of  the 
Queen  who  allows  all  other  feelings  to  be  lost  in  her  jealousy  and  desire 
for  revenge.  An  evidence  of  this  is  given  in  Act  II,  Sc.  2: 

Dona  Maria:  Don  Pedro,  pardon  me. 

The  open  insult  of  my  fellow-queen— 
She  who  "was  reigning  while  I  staid  at  home, 
To  rock  your  cradle,  and  to  suckle  you— 
Moved  me  a  little.  And  besides,  my  liege, 
There  are  some  years  of  suffering  on  my  brow, 
Pray,  mark  my  lady's,  it  is  very  smooth— 
And  some  harsh  lines  of  silver  in  my  hair, 
While  hers  is  glossy  with  untroubled  ease. 
The  rose  has  burned  to  ashes  on  my  face;— 
Yet  lives  again  in  her  transparent  cheek. 
She  can  go  through  her  fingers  and  record 
A  loving  child  upon  each  dainty  tip; 
I  have  but  one,  and  he  forgets  to  love! 

The  Queen's  jealousy  of  the  prime  minister's  hate  for  Leonor  is  a 
strikingly  effective  invention  of  Boker's.  So  all  powerful  is  her  desire  for 
revenge  that  she  cannot  share  it  with  anyone. 

Before  Leonor  de  Guzman  had  been  put  on  the  stage,  Boker  had  started 
his  masterpiece.  In  a  letter  to  Stoddard  on  March  3,  1853,24  he  tells  of 
his  method  of  work.  He  wrote  Francesca  da  Rimini,  a  play  of  twenty- 
eight  hundred  lines  in  three  weeks.  It  was  composed  literally  at  white 
heat.  He  thought  about  the  work  all  day  and  smoked  a  great  deal  after 
he  began  composing  at  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening.  At  four  o'clock  in 
the  morning  he  would  retire  for  about  five  hours'  sleep.  He  came  to  his 
writing  with  the  plan  perfectly  matured,  so  that  the  rapid  composition 
was  only  the  fruition  of  a  long  period  of  preparation.  Francesca  da  Rimini 
was  performed  for  the  first  time  at  the  Broadway  Theatre,  New  York, 

24  Lippincott's  Magazine,  Vol.  45,  p.  864. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  49 1 

on  September  26,  1855.25  Lanciotto  was  played  by  E.  L.  Davenport.  The 
cast  did  not  do  justice  to  the  play.  Davenport's  performance  on  good 
authority  seems  to  have  been  "unimaginative,  mechanical  and  melodra- 
matic." 26  Frcmcesca  da  Rimini  was  revived  by  Lawrence  Barrett  in  1882, 
the  original  performance  taking  place  at  Haverly's  Theatre,  Philadelphia, 
September  14th.  Barrett  played  Lanciotto;  Otis  Skinner,  Paolo;  Louis 
James,  Pepe;  Percy  Winter,  Rene;  Marie  Wainwright,  Francesca;  and 
Josie  Batchelder,  Ritta.  The  occasion  was  a  great  triumph  for  the  play- 
wright in  his  own  city,  which  had  not  been  overappreciative  of  his  merits 
as  a  dramatist  in  the  fifties,  and  also  for  the  members  of  the  cast.27  Mr. 
Barrett  continued  this  play  in  his  repertoire  for  a  number  of  seasons. 

In  Lanciotto,  Boker  provided  Barrett  with  one  of  the  greatest  char- 
acters in  his  career.  On  August  22,  1901,  Otis  Skinner  again  revived  the 
play  at  the  Grand  Opera  House,  Chicago.  It  was  played  throughout  the 
country  during  the  season  of  190 1-2.  Mr.  Skinner  took  the  part  of 
Lanciotto,  Aubrey  Boucicault  playing  Paolo,  and  Marcia  Van  Dresser, 
Francesca.  This  performance  forms  one  of  the  imperishable  stage  mem- 
ories of  the  writer.28 

The  Paolo  and  Francesca  story  has  been  a  favorite  theme  for  treatment. 
Beginning  with  Dante's  description  of  his  meeting  with  the  lovers  in 
the  Fifth  Canto  of  the  Inferno,  human  sympathy  has  often  been  directed 
toward  the  unhappy  love  story  of  the  brother  and  the  wife  of  Giovanni, 
lord  of  Rimini,  who  loved  each  other  and  who  died  by  his  hand.29  Owing 
to  the  stormy  condition  of  Italy  caused  by  the  rivalry  of  the  Guelphs 
and  Ghibellines,  a  marriage  of  state  was  made  between  Francesca,  daughter 
of  Guido  da  Polenta  of  Ravenna  and  Giovanni,  eldest  son  of  Malatesta 
da  Verruchio  of  Rimini.  Giovanni,  or  Lanciotto,  was  a  brave  soldier  but 
was  stern  and  rough  in  character  and  was  called  "il  Sciancato,"  on  ac- 
count of  his  deformed  hip.  Consequently  his  younger  and  handsome 
brother,  Paolo,  was  sent  in  his  stead  and  Francesca  believed  him  to  be  her 
intended  husband.  Paolo  was  already  married,  also  for  political  reasons. 

25  Boker  MSS.  According  to  G.  C.  D.  Odell's  Annals  of  the  New  York  Stage 
(1927-49),  Vol.  6,  p.  425,  the  play  held  the  boards  till  Oct.  4th,  a  good  run  for  those 
days. 

26  William  Winter,  The  Wallet  of  Time  (1913),  Vol.  1,  p.  316. 

2  7  See  newspaper  accounts,  especially  the  long  and  enthusiastic  criticism  in  the 
Philadelphia  Press,  Sept.  15th;  and  particularly  Winter's  analysis,  The  Wallet  of  Time, 
Vol.  1,  pp.  317-322. 

28  See  John  B.  Clapp  and  Edwin  F.  Edgett,  Plays  of  the  Present  (1902),  pp.  n 5- 117, 
for  other  revivals  by  Frank  C.  Bangs  and  by  Frederick  Warde,  between  the  Barrett 
and  Skinner  productions. 

29  See  Dante,  Inferno,  Canto  V;  Boccaccio,  //  Commento  sopra  la  Divina  Commedia, 
Capitolo  quinto.  A  good  account  of  the  story  is  given  in  Charles  Yriarte's  Frangoise  de 
Rimini  dans  La  Legende  et  dans  UHistoire  (Paris,  1883).  See  also  Gertrude  Urban, 
"Paola  and  Francesca  in  History  and  Literature,"  Critic,  Vol.  40  (1902),  pp.  425-438. 
For  epitome  of  historical  facts  and  earlier  versions,  see  Quinn,  American  Drama, 
pp.  350-352- 


492  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  wedding  of  Giovanni  and  Francesca  took  place  in  1275,  and  she  bore 
him  a  daughter,  Concordia.  Giovanni's  suspicions  of  Francesca's  fidelity 
became  awakened  ten  years  later,  and  being  informed  by  a  servant  that 
Paolo  was  in  Francesca's  room,  he  entered.  Paolo,  in  trying  to  escape, 
caught  his  cloak  upon  a  hook  and  Francesca,  intervening,  received  the 
blow  intended  for  him.  Giovanni  then  slew  Paolo.  Boccaccio,  in  his  ac- 
count of  the  story  in  1373,  is  singularly  charitable  in  his  interpretation  of 
Dante's  opinion  of  their  guilt,  and  he  implies  that  if  Francesca  were 
guilty,  the  earlier  deception  justified  her. 

Boker  was  the  first  to  write  a  play  in  English  on  this  theme,  and  he 
was  the  first  to  make  the  injured  husband  the  central  figure  without 
lessening  the  interest  in  the  lovers.  To  do  this  he  had,  of  course,  to  modify 
the  actual  historical  facts,  but,  more  important,  he  had  to  create  by  the 
power  of  imagination  what  Francesca  called  "the  noblest  heart"  in 
Rimini.  Boker  owed  practically  nothing  to  the  plays  on  this  theme  that 
preceded  him.  A  detailed  comparison  of  the  later  plays  leaves  no  ques- 
tion that,  in  English  at  least,  Boker's  is  surpassed  by  no  other  version.  The 
spectator  who  witnesses  Stephen  Phillips'  Paolo  and  Francesca  is  pre- 
sented with  a  poetic  spectacle  in  which  the  characters  belong  to  no 
especial  time  or  place.  Driven  by  fate,  they  are  puppets,  not  themselves 
determining  factors  in  the  action.  Boker  places  us  in  the  midst  of  mediaeval 
Italy.  The  character  of  Paolo,  young,  handsome,  loveworthy,  but  a  bit 
of  a  coxcomb,  is  contrasted  through  his  own  actions  and  words  with 
Lanciotto,  a  warrior,  misshapen  in  body  but  sensitive  to  a  degree  and  with 
a  love  for  his  brother  that  embodies  not  only  natural  affection  but  also 
admiration  for  that  physical  perfection  that  has  been  denied  him.  Deli- 
cately, too,  does  Boker  depict  that  craving  for  affection  on  the  part  of 
a  man  no  longer  young,  which,  when  made  concrete  by  being  centered 
upon  a  young  and  beautiful  woman,  becomes  one  of  the  most  real  motives 
of  life  and  of  art.  Francesca  is  introduced  to  us,  not  as  a  mere  receptive 
character,  as  in  Phillips'  play  or  in  Leigh  Hunt's  earlier  narrative  version, 
but  alive  and  with  a  great  capacity  for  love.  She  is  ready  to  love  Lanciotto, 
and  when  she  mistakes  his  deputy,  Paolo,  for  him,  she  gives  him  her 
heart.  Her  girlish  attempt  to  hide  her  pain,  when  she  discovers  how  she 
has  been  duped,  is  of  the  essence  of  drama,  for  the  words  seem  wrung 
out  of  her  soul. 

Those  who  have  seen  Francesca  da  Rimini  upon  the  stage  will  hardly 
forget  the  scene  in  the  Third  Act  when  Francesca  discovers  the  cheat 
and  when  Lanciotto,  misconstruing  her  apparent  willingness  to  go  on 
with  the  marriage,  believes  that  she  is  beginning  to  care  for  him.  Almost 
at  once,  however,  he  is  led  to  suspicion  by  the  jester,  Pepe.  Pepe's  motive 
is  revenge  for  insults  offered  him  by  Lanciotto  and  by  Paolo,  and  Boker's 
conception  of  the  character  shows  how  well  he  understood  the  relations 
between  a  jester  of  that  period  and  his  master.  He  was  a  privileged  char- 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  493 

acter  and  a  blow  to  him  was  almost  unknown.  His  exemption  was  due 
to  the  old  tradition  that  God  had  already  touched  one  who  was  not 
normal  and  man  should  not  presume  to  do  so.  Pepe  is  human  and  he  is 
mediaeval.  He  acts  quickly,  too,  and  he  helps  the  action  on.  Lanciotto's 
absence  is  naturally  accounted  for  by  the  incursion  of  the  Ghibellines, 
and  thus  the  way  is  left  open  for  the  great  love  scene  between  Paolo  and 
Francesca.  The  Francesca  of  Boker  has  been  at  times  criticized  for  the 
active  part  she  took  in  sending  away  Ritta,  who  scented  danger,  but 
Francesca  is  very  human,  and,  therefore,  more  appealing.  The  contrast 
between  the  love  of  Paolo  that  is  shot  through  with  remorse  and  the 
love  of  Francesca  that  goes  joyfully  on  without  thinking  of  the  cost,  is 
masterly. 

The  final  scene  rises  even  beyond  this  one  in  dramatic  effectiveness. 
As  Boker  wrote  it  and  as  it  was  first  played  it  was  in  the  garden.  Paolo 
has  decided  that  he  will  go  away.  Francesca  reminds  him  in  words  that 
reflect  the  maturity  that  sin's  experience  has  brought  to  her,  what  waits 
for  her  in  the  future  if  he  leaves  her,  a  pledge  for  the  security  of  her 
native  land,  to  the  caresses  of  an  unloved  husband.  Then  Lanciotto  enters 
and,  after  begging  them  to  deny  the  charge  that  Pepe  has  brought  to  him, 
kills  Francesca  and  then  Paolo.  When  the  two  fathers  rebuke  him  he  de- 
fends himself: 

Lanciotto:    Be  satisfied  with  what  you  see.  You  two 
Began  this  tragedy,  I  finished  it. 
Here,  by  these  bodies,  let  us  reckon  up 
Our  crimes  together.  Why,  how  still  they  lie! 
A  moment,  since,  they  walked  and  talked  and  kissed! 
Defied  me  to  my  face,  dishonored  me! 
They  had  the  power  to  do  it  then;  but  now, 
Poor  souls,  who'll  shield  them  in  eternity? 
Father,  the  honor  of  our  house  is  safe; 
I  have  the  secret.  I  will  to  the  wars, 
And  do  more  murders,  to  eclipse  this  one, 
Back  to  the  battles;  there  I  breathe  in  peace; 
And  I  will  take  a  soldier's  honor  back- 
Honor!  what's  that  to  me  now?  Ha!  Ha!  Ha! 

(Laughing) 
A  great  thing,  father!  I  am  very  ill. 
I  killed  thy  son  for  honor;  thou  mayst  chide. 

0  God!  I  cannot  cheat  myself  with  words! 

1  loved  him  more  than  honor — more  than  life — 
This  man  Paolo — this  stark,  bleeding  corpse! 
Here  let  me  rest,  till  God  awake  us  all! 

The  printed  version  of  Francesca  da  Rimini  represents  Boker 's  judg- 
ment of  the  best  form  of  the  play  for  reading  purposes.  It  has  never  been 


494  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

put  on  the  stage  exactly  as  it  has  been  printed.30  Although  the  changes 
made  by  Lawrence  Barrett  and  Otis  Skinner  were  probably  necessary 
for  stao-e  effect,  yet  there  are  shrewd  comments  in  Boker's  own  hand  on 
the  acting  version  of  1882  which  were  accepted  as  correcting  the  stage 
manager's  judgment. 

The  autograph  manuscript  of  The  Bankrupt  is  dated  1853.  It  was  put 
on  at  the  Broadway  Theatre,  December  3,  1855,  with  Julia  Dean  in  the 
part  of  the  heroine.  It  ran  for  four  nights  and  the  critical  comments  in 
the  newspapers  are  surprisingly  commendatory.  It  was  played  without  any 
mention  of  Boker's  name,  and  this  indicates  his  doubt  as  to  its  merit,  for 
the  success  of  Francesca  da  Rimini  at  the  same  theatre  in  September 
would  have  been  an  asset  to  the  later  play.  The  Bankrupt  is  a  prose 
melodrama,  laid  apparently  about  1850,  in  Philadelphia. 

Konigsmark,  published  in  1869,  but  written  in  all  probability  before 
1857,  while  a  verse  drama  of  interest,  was  not  acted  and  could  hardly  have 
been  intended  for  the  stage.  With  Konigsmark  the  first  period  of  Boker's 
dramatic  activity  came  to  an  end.  During  the  next  few  years  he  turned 
his  attention  more  definitely  to  lyric  poetry  and  to  public  affairs,  already 
discussed.31  These  public  services  having  been  completed,  he  turned  his 
attention  again  to  the  stage. 

The  revival  of  Francesca  da  Rimini  in  1882  undoubtedly  encouraged 
him  and  he  wrote  two  plays  upon  the  story  of  the  fall  of  Pompeii.  One 
of  these,  Nydia,  is  dated  on  the  title  page,  1885.  Glaums,  the  longer  play, 
is  dated  1886.  It  is  more  than  a  revision,  it  is  an  entire  rewriting  of  Nydia, 
which  however  seems  to  be  the  stage  version.  According  to  the  memory 
of  Mrs.  George  Boker,  the  play  was  written  for  Barrett.  It  was  evidently 

so  Among  the  manuscripts  is  a  complete  autograph  manuscript  of  the  play  as  it 
now  appears  in  the  collected  edition.  From  this  was  copied  in  1853  an  acting  version, 
and  some  very  interesting  changes  were  made,  partly  by  Boker  himself.  There  is  also 
a  manuscript  with  alterations  by  Boker,  of  the  acting  version  used  by  Mr  Barrett 
in  1882.  In  this  last  the  speeches  of  Lanciotto  are  indicated  by  cues,  so  that  it  is 
impossible  to  tell  how  severely  they  were  cut.  The  acting  version  of  1853  begins  with 
Act  II,  Sc.  1  of  the  printed  version.  There  is  a  note,  in  Boker's  hand,  on  the  manu- 
script directing  that  when  Lanciotto  is  the  prominent  part,  the  whole  of  that  scene 
is  to  be  omitted  and  the  play  is  to  begin  as  in  the  present  reading  version.  If  the 
scenes  were  played  in  the  order  of  the  1853  manuscript  the  play  would  begin  in 
Ravenna  instead  of  in  Rimini  and  the  interest  would  center  on  Francesca,  since  Act 
11  Sc  1  is  concerned  with  the  disclosure  of  Guido  to  her  that  Lanciotto  is  on  the  way. 
The  reason  for  this  change  is  not  now  apparent.  Boker  had  written  Leonor  de  Guzman 
for  Miss  Dean  and  it  may  be  that  he  had  had  her  in  mind  when  he  was  writing 
Francesca  da  Rimini.  The  fact  that  he  named  the  play  as  he  did,  and  that  among  the 
fragments  there  is  a  different  beginning  for  the  Second  Act,  which  represents  Francesca 
among  her  ladies  and  gives  her  the  opening  speech,  would  make  such  an  explanation 
reasonable.  As  the  play  is  printed,  Francesca  does  not  come  on  until  the  second  Act. 
In  the  reprint  of  Francesca  da  Rimini  in  Representative  Ajnerican  Plays  (1938),  by  A. 
H.  Quinn,  the  alterations  of  the  1853  acting  version  have  been  indicated,  as  well  as 
some  of  the  revisions  of  1882. 

31  Chapter  25. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  495 

submitted  to  him,  from  the  manuscript  notes  in  Boker's  handwriting.  Both 
plays  follow  the  main  incidents  of  Bulwer's  Last  Days  of  Pompeii.  Boker's 
plays,  however,  owe  nothing  to  the  language  of  Bulwer.  The  stilted 
artificial  style  in  which  The  Last  Days  of  Pompeii  is  written  is  changed 
into  vigorous  and  flexible  blank  verse,  among  the  finest  that  Boker  wrote. 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  Boker  did  not  publish  the  complete  edition  of 
his  works  which  he  was  evidently  preparing  in  1886.  Fortunately,  under 
the  editorship  of  his  biographer,  the  unprinted  plays  have  been  pub- 
lished.32 Glaucus  was  the  last  of  Boker's  plays  to  be  written.  He  died 
January  2,  1890,  in  Philadelphia,  and  the  interest  excited  by  his  death 
brought  forth  enough  demand  for  his  work  to  warrant  another  reprint- 
ing of  the  edition  of  1856  and  of  the  Poems  of  the  War.  No  attempt  was 
then  made,  however,  to  bring  the  collected  edition  up  to  date. 

For  convenience,  his  sonnets  and  other  lyrics,  among  the  best  written 
by  an  American,  will  be  discussed  here.  Those  treating  of  public  affairs, 
like  "Lear  and  Cordelia,"  dealing  with  British  and  American  relations, 
have  securely  kept  their  places.  But  the  sequence  of  love  sonnets  which 
he  began  in  1857  and  which  numbered,  in  1866,  236,  finally,  in  1887, 
reaching  314,  is  unique  in  American  literature.  They  remained  largely 
unpublished  until  recent  times.33  Every  phase  of  love  is  represented, 
passionate,  spiritual,  and  philosophical.  This  is  not  the  place  to  discuss 
the  question  whether  it  is  an  ideal  love  that  is  celebrated,  but  the  pictorial 
reality  of  some  of  the  sonnets  is  vivid,  frank  rather  than  suggestive.  "Fare- 
well Once  More"  illustrates  this  phase.  But  even  more  unusual  is  "Love 
Sat  At  Ease": 

Love  sat  at  ease  upon  Time's  bony  knee; 
Pulled  his  grey  beard;  paddled  his  finger  tips 
Among  his  wrinkles;  smote  his  bloodless  lips; 
With  rosy  palms  forbade  his  eyes  to  see; 
O'erturned  his  fatal  hour-glass,  wantonly 
Dulled  his  scythe-edge  against  that  dart  which  rips 
The  heart  of  adamant,  cast  gibes  and  quips 
Straight  in  his  teeth,— out-mocking  mockery. 
What  said  the  phantom?  Naught;  he  only  smiled 
To  be  thus  toyed  with;  held  his  wasting  breath, 
Lest  he  might  do  some  damage  to  the  child: 
Till  Love,  grown  weary  of  that  pastime,  saith: 
"This  is  too  tame;  my  heart  with  joy  is  wild; 
Come,  Father,  come!  let  us  go  play  with  Death!" 

Boker  has  rarely  been  surpassed  in  the  lyric  that  objectively  weighs 
young  and  mature  love: 

32  See  Chapter  Bibliography. 

33  See  Sonnets:  A  Sequence  on  Profane  Love,  ed.  E.  S.  Bradley  (1929). 


496  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  fever  in  my  blood  has  died; 

The  eager  foot,  the  glancing  eye, 

By  beauty  lured  so  easily, 
No  more  are  moved,  or  turn  aside: 
My  smiles  are  gone,  my  tears  are  dried. 

And  if  I  say  I  love  thee  now, 

'Tis  not  because  my  passions  burn- 
Fair  as  thou  art— to  ask  return 

Of  love  for  love,  and  vow  for  vow; 

Too  dear  exchanged  for  such  as  thou. 

I  love  thee  only  as  he  can 

Who  knows  his  heart.  I  yield,  in  truth, 

Not  the  blind,  headlong  heat  of  youth, 
That  pants  ere  it  has  run  a  span, 
But  the  determined  love  of  man. 

And  if  from  me  you  ask  more  fire 

Than  lights  my  slowly-fading  days,— 

The  sudden  frenzy  and  the  blaze, 
The  selfish  clutch  of  young  desire,— 
You  point  where  I  cannot  aspire. 

Yet  do  not  bend  thy  head  to  weep, 

Because  my  love  so  coldly  shows; 

For  where  the  fuel  fiercely  glows 
The  flame  is  brief:  in  ashes  deep 
The  everlasting  embers  sleep. 

In  the  attempt  to  explain  the  reasons  which  have  prevented  Boker  from 
receiving  his  proper  position  in  our  literature,  two  have  been  most  fre- 
quently presented.  The  first  is  that  he  treated  foreign  material  too  ex- 
clusively. This  criticism,  in  the  light  of  the  existence  of  Hamlet  and  The 
Merchant  of  Venice,  seems  to  be  beside  the  point.  After  an  examination 
of  The  Bankrupt,  the  only  play  in  which  he  treated  native  conditions, 
and  which  is  by  far  the  poorest,  we  may  be  thankful  that  Boker  knew 
where  his  own  strength  lay.  His  real  and  strong  love  for  his  country 
rings  in  the  lyrics  of  the  Civil  War  and  in  his  sonnets  to  America.  His 
native  verse  is  all  the  more  significant  because  it  has  none  of  the  parochial 
bluster  in  it.  It  is  the  deep  and  sincere  patriotism  of  one  who  has  known 
other  lands  and  races,  but  remains  content  with  our  own  inheritance  and 
standards.  Much  as  he  loved  European  literatures  and  peoples,  he  never 
hesitated  to  criticise  shortcomings  when  he  saw  them,  and  he  had  the 
social  courage  to  love  his  own  country  best.  Nor  is  the  other  explanation 
that  there  was  no  financial  encouragement  for  American  playwrights  in 
Boker's  time  as  applicable  to  him  as  it  was  to  some  others. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  497 

Perhaps  one  explanation  is  to  be  found  in  the  volume  which  records 
the  reception  tendered  him  by  the  Union  League  in  1871  when  he  was 
about  to  depart  for  Turkey.  The  speeches  and  letters  of  appreciation 
were  many,  but  they  fall  sharply  into  two  groups.  The  letters  from  out 
of  town,  from  Bryant,  Holmes,  Lowell,  Longfellow,  Whipple,  Aldrich, 
Stedman,  Curtis,  and  others,  all  pay  their  tribute  to  the  poet  and  drama- 
tist. But  to  the  speakers  from  his  native  city  and  state  that  sphere  of  his 
activity  seemed  to  be  almost  unknown,  except  to  Bayard  Taylor,  who 
paid  him  a  graceful  tribute  in  verse.  Aldrich  put  the  whole  thing  in  a 
nutshell  when  he  wrote:  "It  is  pleasant  to  see  Philadelphia  treating  one 
of  her  own  distinguished  men  of  letters  as  if  he  were  a  distinguished  man 
of  letters  from  somewhere  else."  But  Aldrich  did  not  hear  the  speeches  at 
the  reception.  The  appreciation  of  one's  community  is  after  all  a  great 
impetus  to  creative  activity! 

During  Boker's  creative  period  there  were  individual  efforts  at  the 
writing  of  tragedies,  but  none  that  reached  his  highest  level.  The  most 
important  of  the  later  tragedies  were  written  by  Julia  Ward  Howe.  The 
life  of  this  distinguished  poetess  and  patriot  was  in  itself  dramatic,  for  it 
was  a  constant  struggle  for  the  rights  of  others.  Born  in  New  York  City, 
May  27,  1 8 19,  she  was  interested  in  the  drama  from  childhood,  writing 
a  play  at  nine  years  of  age.  But  it  was  not  until  1857,  when  she  had  long 
been  a  resident  of  Boston,  that  Leonora:  or,  the  World's  Oivn,  was  first 
produced  at  Wallack's  Theatre,  New  York,  on  March  16.  It  is  a  romantic 
tragedy  laid  during  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century  in  a  small 
Italian  principality.  The  character  drawing  is  fine  and  while  the  play  is 
too  long,  there  are  noble  passages  of  poetry,  dramatic  in  their  intensity 
of  passion  and  suffering.  In  1864  Mrs.  Howe  was  asked  to  write  a  play 
for  Edwin  Booth,  and  the  theme  of  Hippolytus  was  selected.  Charlotte 
Cushman  was  chosen  to  play  Phaedra  to  Booth's  Hippolytus,  and  re- 
hearsals were  in  progress  when  suddenly  they  were  stopped.  The  reasons 
given  were  not  convincing  to  Mrs.  Howe  or  to  Booth,  and  it  seems  to 
have  been  the  old  story  of  no  satisfactory  part  for  the  manager's  wife. 
Discouraged  by  this  failure,  she  abandoned  play  writing  and  Hippolytus 
was  not  performed  until  after  her  death,  when  Margaret  Anglin  produced 
it  in  Boston  in  191 1,  playing  Phaedra  to  the  Hippolytus  of  Walter  Hamp- 
den. Hippolytus  was  not  published  until  1941  but  it  contains  some  of 
the  best  of  Mrs.  Howe's  poetry  and  is  composed  on  a  lofty  plane  of  feel- 
ing. With  any  real  encouragement  she  could  have  contributed  plays  to 
our  stage  that  would  have  enriched  our  literature  as  well  as  our  theatre. 


While  the  romantic  tragedy  and  comedy  were  engaging  the  efforts  of 
the  most  skillful  of  our  dramatists,  numerous  and  industrious  playwrights 
sought  to  place  upon  the  stage  the  scenes  and  characters  of  their  native 


498  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

land.  Disregarding  opera  and  pantomime,  our  stage  histories  record  about 
190  plays  with  a  historical  background  between  1825  and  i860.  Their 
general  levrel  of  excellence  fell  below  that  of  the  romantic  play,  for 
several  reasons.  First,  they  were  often  written  hurriedly  for  holidays  or 
other  special  occasions.  Second,  they  frequently  dealt  with  wars  or  other 
well-known  events  that  lent  themselves  to  exaggeration  or  else  confined 
the  playwright's  imagination.  But  in  another  sense  they  are  of  equal  sig- 
nificance, for  in  them  we  can  see  the  reflection  of  popular  taste  and  find 
the  roots  of  a  later  development  of  great  importance.  They  handed  on, 
too,  the  impulse  started  by  Tyler,  Dunlap,  and  Barker,  and  their  study 
reveals  again  the  continuity  of  our  dramatic  impulse.  Unfortunately  out 
of  the  more  than  190  recorded,  fewer  than  one-third  have  survived.  But 
enough  remain  to  represent  the  various  types  into  which  they  ran,  and 
they  are  most  profitably  to  be  considered  as  types  rather  than  as  the  work 
of  individual  playwrights. 

It  was  natural  that  the  Indian  should  be  treated  frequently  at  the  time. 
The  love  of  romance  found  in  him  a  link  between  the  strange  and  the 
familiar,  which  secured  freedom  of  treatment  at  the  same  time  that  it 
satisfied  the  desire  for  a  native  subject.  It  was  not,  of  course,  a  new 
theme.  The  real  beginning  of  Indian  drama  came  with  Barker's  Indian 
Princess  in  1808,  but  it  was  not  until  1827  that  the  Indian  plays  com- 
menced to  multiply. 

The  honor  of  introducing  the  vogue  seems  to  belong  to  George  Wash- 
ington Parke  Custis  (1781-1857),  the  son  of  John  Parke  Custis,  the  step- 
son of  Washington.  Custis  was  a  writer  and  speaker  of  ability,  but,  with 
the  instincts  of  a  Southern  landholder,  published  little.  An  incident  in 
Washington's  life,  in  which  the  Indian  chiefs  at  Braddock's  defeat  had 
ceased  to  fire  at  him  because  they  believed  him  invulnerable,  was  the 
basis  for  Custis's  The  Indian  Prophecy,  produced  at  the  Chestnut  Street 
Theatre  in  Philadelphia,  on  July  4,  1827. 

In  1828,  Edwin  Forrest  offered  a  prize  of  five  hundred  dollars  and 
half  the  proceeds  of  the  third  night  for  the  "best  tragedy,  in  five  acts, 
of  which  the  hero,  or  principal  character,  shall  be  an  original  of  this 
country."  The  prize  was  awarded  to  Metamora,  by  John  Augustus  Stone. 
It  was  first  produced  at  the  Park  Theatre,  New  York,  on  December  15, 

1829,  and  was  an  instant  success,  and  the  performance  on  January  23, 

1830,  at  the  Arch  Street  Theatre,  Philadelphia,  was  a  triumph  for  the 
native  actor  who  had  come  into  national  prominence.  Forrest  played  it 
continually  during  his  entire  career  and  records  of  its  performance  by 
E.  K.  Collier  are  found  as  late  as  1887.34  The  author  shared  in  no  way 
in  this  prosperity.  He  had  begun  his  career  as  an  actor  in  Boston,  but  in 
neither  the  theatre  nor  the  drama  did  he  find  any  adequate  support.  In 
despair  he  threw  himself  into  the  Schuylkill  River  from  the  Spruce  Street 

• '  Odcll,  New  York  Stage,  Vol.  13,  p.  468. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  499 

wharf  in  Philadelphia,  May  29,  1834.35  Forrest  erected  a  handsome  tomb- 
stone to  his  memory. 

Metamora  exists  in  two  incomplete  manuscripts,  in  the  Forrest  Home 
and  the  University  of  Utah,  which  were  printed  in  America's  Lost  Plays, 
in  1 94 1.  From  these  and  from  accounts  of  the  play  it  is  possible  to  recreate 
the  drama  of  the  last  days  of  Metamora  or  King  Philip,  with  the  pre- 
vailing motives  of  love  for  his  wife,  Nahmeokee,  and  his  child,  his  de- 
fiance of  the  whites,  his  courage,  honesty,  and  stoicism.  The  part  suited 
Forrest  admirably,  for  Metamora  is  a  type,  not  a  real  Indian,  and  every 
admirable  characteristic  is  intensified,  and  every  moment  is  a  tense  one. 
The  language  of  the  play  is  that  mixture  of  Indian  and  Ossian  which  be- 
came traditional  upon  the  stage:  "Your  great  Book,  you  say,  tells  you  to 
give  good  gifts  to  the  stranger  and  deal  kindly  with  him  whose  heart  is 
sad.  The  Wampanoag  needs  no  such  counsellor,  for  the  Great  Spirit  has 
with  his  own  finger  written  it  on  his  heart." 

G.  W.  P.  Custis  next  produced  his  Pocahontas:  or,  the  Settlers  of 
Virginia,  first  played  at  the  Walnut  Street  Theatre,  January  16,  1830, 
where  it  ran  for  the  unusually  long  period  of  twelve  nights.  It  was  re- 
vived later  in  New  York  and  Philadelphia.  Pocahontas  employs  the  usual 
historical  episodes,  but  with  one  important  change.  The  story  of  Captain 
Smith  and  Pocahontas  has  a  serious  drawback  as  dramatic  material:  the 
climax  comes  too  soon.  Custis  calmly  disregarded  chronology  and  intro- 
duced the  rescue  of  Smith  into  the  last  scene  of  the  play.  The  characters 
of  Pocahontas,  Powhatan,  Smith,  Rolfe,  and  Matacoran,  the  Indian  chief 
opposed  to  the  English,  are  well  drawn. 

Notwithstanding  the  inherent  difficulties  of  the  Pocahontas  story,  its 
romantic  flavor  led  playwrights  to  return  to  it  more  than  once.  In  1837, 
Robert  Dale  Owen,  British  by  birth,  but  later  a  member  of  Congress, 
wrote  his  Pocahontas,  a  play  in  blank  verse  and  prose,  which  was  pro- 
duced at  the  Park  Theatre,  February  8,  1838,  with  Charlotte  Cushman  as 
Rolfe  and  Emma  Wheatley  as  Pocahontas.  Charlotte  Barnes  Conner,  in 
her  Forest  Princess,  played  first  at  Liverpool  in  1844  and  in  Philadelphia 
in  1848,  endeavored  to  provide  a  new  motive  by  taking  Pocahontas  to 
England,  where  she  dies  in  a  pathetic  scene,  after  Rolfe  has  been  cleared 
of  a  charge  of  treason.  Finally  the  motive  ran  to  satire  in  John  Brougham's 
amusing  burlesque  of  Pocahontas:  or,  the  Gentle  Savage,  at  Wallack's 
Theatre,  December  24,  1855. 

The  Pocahontas  series  contains  easily  the  best  of  the  plays  concerning 
the  North  American  Indian.  Bird's  Oralloossa  has  to  do  with  Indians  of 
a  different  race  and  he  declined  to  dramatize  his  Indian  story,  Nick  of 
the  Woods,  leaving  it  to  be  turned  by  Louisa  H.  Medina  into  one  of  the 
most  popular  and  most  highly  colored  melodramas  of  the  time.  Just  as 
the  vogue  of  the  Indian  play  was  losing  its  hold,  George  H.  Miles  wrote 

35  Wood's  MS  Diary,  Library,  University  of  Pennsylvania. 


5oo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

one  of  the  most  appealing  from  the  literary  point  of  view,  in  De  Soto,  in 
which  the  interest  of  Colonial  history  is  blended  with  that  of  the  Indian 
motive.  De  Soto  was  written  for  James  E.  Murdoch,  who  produced  it  at 
the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre,  Philadelphia,  April  19,  1852.  It  has  been 
preserved  only  in  a  manuscript,  in  which  De  Soto's  part  is  not  given,  but 
enough  remains  to  reveal  an  appropriate  treatment  of  a  romantic  theme, 
the  conquest  and  death  of  the  discoverer  of  the  Mississippi.  Stage  history 
records  about  fifty  Indian  plays  36  which  seem  to  have  been  performed 
between  1825  and  i860,  besides  others  not  to  be  clearly  identified.  Of 
these  not  half  have  survived.  It  is  not  hard  to  see  why  the  vogue  declined. 
There  is  a  sameness  of  plot,  an  exaggeration  of  motive,  and  a  lack  of 
reality  in  the  treatment  of  the  Indian  which  soon  doomed  the  aboriginal 
drama.  And,  unlike  the  other  national  historical  plays,  it  dealt  with  a 
vanishing  not  a  coming  race. 

Colonial  history  received  comparatively  less  treatment  at  the  hands  of 
the  playwrights.  Barker's  Superstition  remained  unsurpassed  in  artistic 
merit  during  the  period  now  under  discussion.  Cornelius  Mathews 
(1817-89),  an  editor  in  New  York,  employed  the  Colonial  motive  twice, 
first  in  Witchcraft:  or,  the  Martyrs  of  Salem,  produced  at  Philadelphia, 
in  1846,  by  Murdoch  and  afterward  acted  with  apparently  unusual  suc- 
cess in  New  York,  Boston,  Cincinnati,  St.  Louis,  and  even  in  California. 
It  was  published  in  London  in  1852  and  was  translated  into  French.37 
Gideon  Bodish's  love  for  his  mother,  her  arrest  for  witchcraft,  his  defense 
of  her,  and  their  death  through  human  intolerance,  mount  at  times  into 
fine  drama.  Mathews'  second  historical  play,  Jacob  Leisler  (1848),  has 
not  survived. 

The  Revolution  continued  naturally  to  be  the  most  appealing  theme. 
But,  while  out  of  the  score  of  such  plays  produced  before  1825  fully  half 
were  printed,  only  one-fifth  of  those  that  saw  the  stage  between  1825 
and  i860  have  come  down  to  us.  A  glance  at  the  list,38  which  can  be  only 
partially  complete,  will  show  how  each  of  the  great  events  from  the 
Boston  Tea  Party  to  Yorktown  was  celebrated.  Franklin,  Putnam, 
Morgan,  Hale,  Marion,  Wayne,  Ethan  Allen  were  popular  figures,  but 
everyone  else  was  a  bad  second  to  Washington. 

The  acted  drama  of  the  Revolution  that  we  can  now  examine  contains 
some  popular  successes  and  one  fine  comedy.  Nathaniel  H.  Bannister's 
Putnam:  The  Iron  Son  of  '76  was  first  put  on  at  the  Bowery  Theatre, 
August  5,  1844,  and  ran  for  seventy-eight  nights.  It  was  produced  an- 
nually for  many  years  and  went  into  the  other  principal  cities.  It  is  a 
rather  vigorous  play  which  consists  principally  in  Putnam's  escapes  from 
the  British  and  the  Tories.  The  wide  interest  in  the  play  proves  how 

:;';  For  list  of  plays  sec  Quinn,  American  Drama,  p.  275,  Footnote. 

37  W.  W.  Clapp,  A  Record  of  the  Boston  Stage  (1853),  p.  404. 

38  For  list  see  Quinn,  American  Drama,  p.  277,  Footnote. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  501 

quick  is  the  response  to  the  motive  of  self-preservation  and  how  the 
rapidity  of  a  hero's  action  did  not  have  to  wait  for  the  moving  pictures 
to  find  its  way  to  the  favor  of  audiences. 

The  best  of  the  Revolutionary  plays  was  Love  in  '76  by  Oliver  Bell 
Bunce  (1828-90),  a  writer  and  publisher  in  New  York,  ft  was  put  on  at 
Laura  Keene's  Theatre  on  February  28,  1857,  Miss  Keene  acting  the  part 
of  Rose  Elsworth,  one  of  the  most  charming  of  our  stage  heroines.  The 
play  is  concerned  with  the  efforts  of  Rose  to  secure  the  escape  of  her 
husband,  Captain  Armstrong,  of  the  American  army  from  the  home  of 
her  father,  a  Tory.  Her  wit,  sharpened  by  love,  is  an  impulse  ever  at- 
tractive on  the  stage.  Of  Bunce's  other  acted  plays  only  Marco  Bozzaris, 
played  in  New  York  in  1850,  has  survived.  Of  the  few  plays,  not  more 
than  twenty,  that  deal  during  this  period  with  the  War  of  18 12,  only  two 
of  importance  have  survived,  The  Eighth  of  January  and  The  Triumph 
at  Plattsburg,  already  discussed. 

Closely  allied  to  the  treatment  of  American  history  was  the  dramatiza- 
tion of  contemporary  events,  and  since  they  expressed  the  spirit  of  the 
times  that  inspired  them  it  is  again  unfortunate  that  so  few  have  survived. 
In  1827  C.  S.  Talbot,  an  actor,  who  came  to  this  country  from  Ireland  in 
1820,  wrote  for  his  wife  a  play,  Captain  Morgan:  or,  the  Conspiracy 
Unveiled,  which  dealt  with  a  tragic  event  that  stirred  thousands  of 
people.  In  1826,  William  Morgan,  a  bricklayer,  then  resident  in  Batavia, 
New  York,  threatened  to  publish  a  book  revealing  the  secrets  of  the 
Masonic  order.  He  was  kidnapped  by  a  number  of  armed  men  and  never 
seen  again.  The  resultant  agitation  led  to  the  formation  of  the  Anti- 
Masonic  party. 

In  1833,  President  Jackson  served  notice  on  the  United  States  Bank 
that  deposits  of  United  States  funds  would  no  longer  be  made,  and  we 
find  a  farce  produced  on  September  7,  1835,  called  Removing  the  De- 
posits, by  Henry  J.  Finn.  The  dispute  with  Great  Britain  over  the  North- 
eastern Boundary  resulted  in  Bannister's  The  Maine  Question  (1839),  in 
which  General  Winfield  Scott  was  the  leading  character.  The  struggle 
between  the  political  parties  is  reflected  in  several  plays,  one  of  which 
may  be  taken  as  typical.  Whigs  and  Democrats:  or,  Love  of  No  Politics, 
printed  in  Richmond,  anonymously,  in  1839  and  attributed  to  J.  E.  Heath, 
was  played  in  1839  in  Philadelphia.  It  is  a  clever  satire  on  the  methods 
by  which  an  election  was  carried  on  in  a  rural  district  in  Virginia. 

The  early  conflict  in  Texas  which  led  to  the  war  with  Mexico  was 
celebrated  in  a  vigorous  if  lurid  melodrama,  Michael  Bonham:  or,  the 
Fall  of  Bexar,  by  William  Gilmore  Simms.  Simms'  other  published  play, 
Norman  Maurice:  or,  the  Man  of  the  People  ( 185 1),  was  not  acted,  though 
it  was  put  in  rehearsal  in  Nashville,  Tennessee,  in  1854.  ^  ls  a  tragedy  in 
blank  verse,  laid  in  Philadelphia  and  Missouri,  dealing  with  the  attempt 
on  the  part  of  the  enemies  of  Norman  Maurice  to  ruin  him.  The  war 


5o2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

with  Mexico  furnished  its  quota  of  plays,  none,  however,  of  importance. 

Toward  the  close  of  this  period  the  Mormon  emigration,  General 
Walker's  invasion  of  Nicaragua,  and  the  settlement  of  California  found 
dramatic  expression.  The  Mormons:  or,  Life  at  Salt  Lake  City,  by  Dr. 
Thomas  Dunn  English,  played  at  Burton's  Theatre  in  March,  1858,  is 
an  amusing  piece  of  work.  Timothy  Noggs,  a  runaway  New  York 
alderman,  played  by  Burton,  endeavors  to  instruct  Brigham  Young  and 
the  other  Danites  in  the  latest  and  best  methods  of  political  manipulation, 
but,  after  a  brief  struggle,  finds  he  is  a  child  in  the  hands  of  more  expert 
politicians  and  retires  after  having  had  thirteen  wives  sealed  upon  him. 
The  extant  California  plays,  such  as  A  Live  Woman  in  the  Mines:  or, 
Pike  County  Ahead,  by  "Old  Block,"  and  Fast  Folks:  or,  Early  Days  of 
California,  by  Joseph  A.  Nunes,  are  not  nearly  as  clever  as  The  Mormons. 

The  great  influence  of  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  as  a  book  was  paralleled  by 
its  effect  as  a  play.  The  first  successful  attempt  to  dramatize  it  was  made 
by  G.  L.  Aiken  in  Troy,  New  York,  in  1852;  and  when  his  version  reached 
New  York  City  in  1853,  it  ran  for  two  hundred  performances.  It  spread 
all  over  the  North  and  versions  were  given  in  England  and  France.  During 
the  seventies  and  eighties,  thousands  of  groups  of  children  acted  in  ver- 
sions prepared  by  themselves.  It  has  never  ceased  to  be  acted  39  and,  in 
1933,  during  the  revival  by  The  Players,  one  of  the  audience  in  Boston 
was  Cordelia  Howard  MacDonald,  who  had  created  "Little  Eva"  in 
1852!  The  tragedy  of  mixed  blood,  which  was  the  central  theme  in 
Dred,  had  another  expression  in  Neighbor  Jackwood,  by  J.  T.  Trow- 
bridge, who  dramatized  his  own  novel  of  that  name  for  the  Boston 
Museum,  where  it  opened  March  16,  1857,  and  was  played  at  times  for 
eight  years.  The  dramas  which  advocated  Union  were  not  so  frequent  as 
the  novels,  but  two  plays,  produced  in  New  York,  Distant  Relations 
(1859)  and  The  Old  Plantation:  or,  The  Real  Uncle  Tom  (i860),  con- 
tained in  their  programs  appeals  to  Union  sentiment,  and  one  of  the 
novels,  Cabin  and  Parlor,  was  dramatized,  and  produced  in  Philadelphia, 
in  1854. 

It  is  not  easy  to  draw  a  helpful  distinction  between  the  plays  based 
upon  a  patriotic  desire  to  celebrate  American  history  or  to  catch  the 
interest  of  contemporary  events  which  have  now  become  historic,  and 
that  even  larger  group  of  plays  which  selected  native  themes  for  dramatic 
treatment  in  comedy.  Both  tend  to  become  melodrama,  and  it  would  per- 
haps be  idle  to  insist  upon  too  rigid  a  classification  of  material  which  has 
come  down  to  us  so  largely  by  tradition.  The  stage  histories  are  crowded 
with  names  of  plays  which  indicate  their  light,  and  often  imitative  na- 
ture. As  soon  as  a  lucky  hit  was  made  by  a  play  or  a  character,  other 
playwrights  and  managers  hastened  to  profit  by  the  success  of  the  creator, 

39  See  Harry  BirdorT,  The  World's  Greatest  Hit  (1948),  for  its  career  in  the  moving 
picture. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  503 

who  was  not  infrequently  drawing  himself  upon  earlier  material.  Still, 
out  of  this  dramatic  impulse,  hasty  as  it  often  was,  emerged  an  interesting 
and  significant  series  of  dramatic  types  which  have  persisted  on  the  stage 
even  today.  To  the  student  of  the  drama  who  loves  to  watch  an  idea, 
planted  perhaps  by  a  mere  trifle  in  the  mind  of  a  playwright  or  an  actor, 
germinate,  develop,  and  finally  come  to  fruition  in  the  creation  of  a  char- 
acter like  Jonathan  Ploughboy,  Solon  Shingle,  Mrs.  Tiffany,  or  Rip  Van 
Winkle,  this  period  of  our  drama  will  have  a  special  reward. 

Unfortunately,  some  of  the  most  famous  of  these  comedies  have  not 
survived,  for  that  fatal  paradox  in  our  dramatic  history  that  kept  some 
of  the  great  tragedies  from  print  kept  also  the  most  popular  of  the 
comedies,  and  the  danger  of  reproduction  at  the  hands  of  rivals  led 
James  H.  Hackett  and  others  to  see  that  their  best  plays  were  kept  for 
themselves  alone.  It  is  for  this  reason  in  all  probability  that  we  know  only 
by  tradition  the  comedy  written  by  James  Kirke  Paulding  for  Hackett, 
known  as  The  Lion  of  the  West,  which  contained  one  of  his  most  success- 
ful characters,  Nimrod  Wildfire,  the  man  of  the  frontier.  An  anonymous 
writer  in  The  New  York  Mirror  40  gives  a  plot,  but  it  was  the  character 
of  Nimrod  Wildfire  that  carried  the  play  into  fame  and  a  sample  of  his 
conversation  as  given  in  the  extract:  "There's  no  back  out  in  her  breed, 
for  she  can  lick  her  weight  in  wild  cats,  and  she  shot  a  bear  at  nine  years 
old,"  shows  the  strength  of  Paulding's  comic  invention.  The  frontier  type 
is  met  also  in  the  Indian  plays,  and  whatever  its  eccentricities,  it  was  at 
least  distinctly  American. 

First  in  point  of  time,  however,  came  the  "Yankee  plays."  Royall  Tyler 
in  The  Contrast  had  created  the  character  of  Jonathan,  but  the  first  of 
his  stage  descendants  to  strike  a  large  popular  response  was  Jonathan 
Ploughboy,  in  The  Forest  Rose,  a  domestic  comedy  with  musical  ac- 
companiment, first  played  in  New  York,  October  6,  1825.  It  was  by  that 
playwright  of  transition,  Samuel  Woodworth,  who  belongs  to  an  earlier 
period  in  some  respects,  but  who  in  this  play  is  the  forerunner  of  so 
many  imitators  that  he  may  almost  be  said  to  have  founded  a  school  of 
play  writing.  It  held  the  American  stage  for  over  forty  years  41  and,  when 
revived  at  Columbia  University,  in  1928,  it  revealed  its  unusual  character 
portrayal. 

One  of  the  best  of  the  creators  of  Yankee  characters  was  Joseph  Stevens 
Jones  (1809-77),  playwright,  manager  and  physician.  The  most  famous 
of  his  Yankee  characters  was  Solon  Shingle,  the  country  teamster  of  The 
People's  Lawyer,  which  was  first  acted  at  the  National  Theatre  in  Boston, 
in  1839.  In  this  play  he  created  the  shrewd  old  New  England  farmer  in 
which  many  character  actors  scored  successes.  The  last  play  by  Dr.  Jones 

40  Vol.  9,  p.  102,  October  1,  183 1. 

41  O.  S.  Coad,  "The  Plays  of  Samuel  Woodworth,"  Sewanee  Review,  Vol.  27  (19 19), 
p.  166. 


5o4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

to  be  printed  had  a  stage  life  that  brings  it  almost  down  to  our  day.  The 
Silver  Spoon,  put  on  first  at  the  Boston  Museum  on  February  16,  1852, 
was  reprinted,  "revised  and  reconstructed"  in  191 1,  which  indicates  its 
continued  existence,  probably  in  stock.  It  has  the  nearest  approach  to 
literary  quality  of  all  of  Jones'  plays,  and  the  Yankee  character,  the 
Honorable  Jefferson  S.  Batkins,  member  of  the  General  Court  from 
Cranberry  Centre,  is  the  shrewd,  none-too-honest,  rural  delegate,  who  is 
made  a  comic  character  through  his  conversation  and  the  tricks  the  other 
characters  play  upon  him.  In  the  preface  to  Moll  Pitcher:  or,  the  Fortune 
Teller  of  Lynn,  Jones  stated  in  memorable  terms  the  existing  difficulties 
confronting  the  American  playwright.42 

Closely  allied  to  the  "Yankee  play"  in  its  exaggeration  and  in  its  suc- 
cess, was  the  play  dealing  with  life  in  the  large  city.  The  origin  of  this 
type  of  play  is  frequently  ascribed  to  the  production  of  A  Glance  at  New 
York,  by  Benjamin  F.  Baker,  in  1848,  in  which  "Mose,"  the  fireman,  was 
the  central  character.  As  is  usual  with  dramatic  types,  however,  its  crea- 
tion was  not  due  to  one  play,  but  was  the  result  of  years  of  tentative 
effort.  Bird  had  written  a  play  of  low  life  in  1827,  although  it  was  not 
produced  at  that  time,  and  there  are  mentions  of  "firemen  plays"  as  early 
as  183 1.  The  latter  have  not  survived,  but  there  can  be  little  doubt  that 
when  F.  S.  Chanfrau  made  his  great  success  in  A  Glance  at  New  York, 
on  February  15,  1848,  the  public  had  been  prepared  to  enjoy  the  type  of 
play  he  furnished.  The  plot  is  based  on  the  same  psychology  as  that  of 
certain  modern  moving  pictures,  rapid  change  of  scene  and  vivid  action, 
and  deals  with  the  victimization  of  visitors  to  New  York  City.  "Mose" 
is  inserted  into  the  play,  which  includes  scenes  from  various  dives.  The 
appearance  of  "Mose"  upon  the  stage  of  the  Olympic  Theatre  was  the 
signal  for  a  wild  ovation.  Chanfrau  had  copied  exactly  the  red  shirt,  the 
plug  hat,  and  the  turned-up  trousers  of  the  fireman.  The  play  ran  for 
seventy  nights  and  was  imitated  by  others.  "Mose"  was  taken  to  California 
and  even  to  France  and  China. 

The  vogue  of  these  plays  continued  up  to  and  beyond  the  Civil  War, 
and  there  is  little  distinction,  so  far  as  type  is  concerned,  to  be  made  be- 
tween them  and  such  a  later  play  as  Augustin  Daly's  Under  the  Gas  Light. 
The  great  popularity  of  this  ancestor  of  the  modern  "crook  play"  is  due 
to  the  fact  that  human  nature  is,  of  course,  much  the  same  everywhere, 
and  being  less  reticent  as  it  descends  in  the  economic  scale,  it  expresses 
itself  more  freely,  therefore  is  obvious  material  for  the  stage.  Contrasts, 
too,  the  very  life  of  drama,  are  more  frequent  in  the  underworld.  For 
the  class  to  which  such  scenes  were  revelations,  the  interest  of  the  un- 
known was  added,  and  it  became  fashionable  to  go  to  see  the  plays  of  low 
life,  while,  since  Mose  was  usually  depicted  as  a  conquering  hero,  his 
very  compatriots  were  among  the  most  delighted  of  his  auditors.  Literary 

42  See  Quinn,  American  Drama,  pp.  298-299,  Footnote  2. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  505 

qualities  these  plays  had  not,  and  it  is  to  be  noticed  that  only  four  of  them 
have  survived,  except  by  contemporary  references.  But  the  reality  of  their 
depiction  of  life,  more  faithful  at  first  than  in  the  "Yankee  plays,"  points 
forward,  even  if  its  fruition  was  to  be  of  less  artistic  significance. 

Certainly  with  more  pride  of  ancestry  and  with  a  more  distinguished 
achievement,  the  comedy  dealing  satirically  with  the  social  values  in 
American  life  presents  a  vivid  contrast  to  the  plays  just  treated,  a  contrast 
epitomized  in  the  relative  merits  of  Fashion  and  A  Glance  at  New  York. 
Fashion  is  not  to  be  spoken  of  as  "our  first  social  comedy."  But  its  quality, 
its  success,  and  the  dramatic  career  of  its  author  make  it  perhaps  the  most 
significant.  Anna  Cora  Ogden  Mowatt  was  born  in  Bordeaux,  France,  in 
1 8 19.  Coming  to  New  York  in  her  seventh  year,  she  put  on  the  stage  at 
her  home  a  translation  of  Voltaire's  Alzire  when  she  was  fourteen.  Next 
year  occurred  her  romantic  marriage  with  James  Mowatt,  a  New  York 
barrister.  In  1836  she  wrote  Pelayo:  or,  the  Cavern  of  Covadonga,  a  po- 
etical romance  in  six  cantos,  written  in  verse  of  an  easy  flow,  but  which 
is  interesting  chiefly  as  apprentice  work.  She  was  threatened  with  tuber- 
culosis when  she  was  eighteen,  but  with  her  characteristic  courage,  she 
determined  to  be  well  and  took  the  sea  voyage  to  Liverpool,  spent  a  week 
in  London,  and  then  went  on  to  Hamburg  where  she  was  joined  by 
Mowatt,  who  had  come  over  for  medical  treatment.  Her  description  of 
life  in  the  Paris  of  Louis  Philippe  is  discerning,  especially  in  its  analysis 
of  social  customs.  In  a  letter  to  her  sister,  she  scores  our  imitation  of  the 
form  of  their  fashions  without  conceiving  the  spirit  which  dictates  them. 
She  illustrates  this  by  our  omission  of  introductions  on  social  occasions. 
But  in  Paris 

the  custom  is  intended  to  obviate  the  ceremoniousness  of  formal  introductions. 
Everyone  is  expected  to  talk  to  his  neighbor,  and  if  mutual  pleasure  is  received 
from  the  intercourse  an  acquaintance  is  formed.  The  same  fashion  in  vogue 
with  us  renders  society  cold  and  stiff.  Few  persons  feel  at  liberty  to  address 
strangers.  Little  contracted  circles  of  friends  herd  in  clannish  groups  together 
and  mar  the  true  object  of  society. 

It  is  just  this  failure  to  understand  the  true  meaning  of  social  customs 
that  makes  Mrs.  Tiffany  in  Fashion  such  a  delightful  creation.  Her  health 
restored,  Mrs.  Mowatt  wrote  her  first  play,  Gulzara:  or,  the  Persian  Slave, 
for  her  intimate  group  of  players  at  Flatbush,  and  it  was  published  in 
The  New  World  for  1840.  Mowatt  lost  his  wealth  through  speculation, 
and  she  began  to  give  public  readings  in  Boston,  New  York,  and  other 
places,  with  great  success.  Magazines,  such  as  The  Columbian,  The  Demo- 
cratic Review,  Godey's  Lady's  Book,  and  Graham's  Magazine,  contain 
articles  by  her  under  the  name  of  Helen  Berkeley,  some  of  which  were 
copied  into  London  periodicals,  and  even  translated  into  German.  In 
fact,  she  states  that  she  sometimes  wrote  several  articles  for  the  same 


5o6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

number  under  different  names!  Her  novel  of  The  Fortune  Hunter,  which 
won  a  prize  offered  in  1 842  by  The  New  World,  had  quite  a  wide  sale  and 
was  translated  into  German.  It  has  not,  however,  the  vitality  of  Fashion. 
At  the  suggestion  of  Epes  Sargent,  she  wrote  Fashion,  definitely  as  an 
acting  play  for  the  Park  Theatre.  It  was  produced  on  March  24,  1845, 
and  its  success  was  complete,  its  three  weeks'  run  being  interrupted  only 
by  positive  engagements  of  the  theatre.  It  was  played  at  the  Walnut 
Street  Theatre  in  Philadelphia  while  the  New  York  engagement  was  still 
progressing,  and  Mrs.  Mowatt  was  given  an  ovation  when  she  appeared 
in  a  box.  Fashion  deserved  its  success.  It  is  that  rare  thing,  a  social  satire 
based  on  real  knowledge  of  the  life  it  depicts,  but  painting  it  without 
bitterness  and  with  real  humor.  It  is  true  to  the  manners  of  the  time  and 
place,  but  it  is  based  on  human  motives  and  failures  that  are  universal,  and 
when  it  is  placed  on  the  stage  today  it  is  as  fresh  as  when  it  delighted  the 
audiences  of  the  Park  Theatre  in  1845.43  The  plot  of  Fashion  is  not  im- 
portant. It  is  the  drawing  of  character  and  the  clever  dialogue  that  gives 
it  a  right  to  live.  Mrs.  Tiffany,  the  wife  of  a  newly  rich  business  man  of 
New  York,  socially  ambitious  for  herself  and  her  daughter,  Seraphina; 
her  husband,  who  is  ruining  himself  by  her  extravagance;  a  Count  Joli- 
maitre,  the  newest  importation  from  Paris,  who  is  really  a  valet;  and 
Zeke,  a  delightful  colored  servant,  whose  conversations  with  Millinette, 
the  French  ladies'  maid  and  social  instructor  of  Mrs.  Tiffany,  reveal 
naturally  the  family  relations,  form  but  part  of  the  remarkable  gallery 
of  portraits  created  by  Mrs.  Mowatt  in  this  play.  One  example  of  a 
speech  of  Mrs.  Tiffany's  will  illustrate  the  quality  of  the  dialogue. 

Mil: 

Madame    have    one    charmante    pronunciation.    Fowtool    (mimicking    aside) 

charmante,  Madame! 

Mrs.  Tif: 

Do  you  think  so,  Millinette?  Well,  I  believe  I  have.  But  a  woman  of  refinement 
and  of  fashion  can  always  accommodate  herself  to  everything  foreign!  And 
a  week's  study  of  that  invaluable  work— "French  without  a  Master,"  has  made 
me  quite  at  home  in  the  court  language  of  Europe!  But  where  is  the  new 
valet?  I'm  rather  sorry  that  he  is  black,  but  to  obtain  a  white  American  for 
a  domestic  is  almost  impossible;  and  they  call  this  a  free  country! 

The  great  merit  of  Fashion  is  the  way  in  which  it  provides  scope  for 
capable  acting. 

43  The  First  Act  was  played  at  the  matinee  performance  given  by  the  New  York 
Drama  League  at  the  Republic  Theatre,  January  22,  191 7,  which  presented  a  series  of 
scenes  from  historic  American  plays.  When  the  curtain  went  down,  audible  requests 
were  heard  that  Fashion  be  allowed  to  go  on  and  that  the  rest  of  the  program  be 
left  out.  The  complete  play  was  revived  at  the  Provincetown  Theatre,  New  York, 
February  3,  1924,  and  after  moving  successively  to  the  Greenwich  Village  and  Cort 
Theatres,  ran  for  235  consecutive  performances,  until  August  30.  It  has  constantly 
been  performed  by  college  groups  and  little  theatres. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  507 

Encouraged  by  the  success  of  Fashion  and  spurred  on  by  necessity, 
Mrs.  Mowatt  determined  to  become  an  actress,  one  of  the  few  examples 
of  a  woman  succeeding  as  a  star  without  long  experience  and  training. 
She  made  her  debut  at  the  Park  Theatre  on  June  13,  1845,  as  Pauline  in 
The  Lady  of  Lyons.  Her  success  was  helped  by  her  position  and  her 
beauty,  but  it  was  also  the  result  of  real  ability.  An  unsparing  critic  like 
Poe  said:  "we  have  to  speak  of  her  acting  only  in  terms  of  enthusiastic 
admiration— let  her  trust  proudly  to  her  own  grace  of  manner— her  own 
sense  of  art— her  own  rich  and  natural  elocution."  44 

The  next  season,  E.  L.  Davenport  became  her  leading  man,  and  she 
wrote  Armand:  the  Child  of  the  People,  during  the  summer  of  1847,  with 
his  and  her  capabilities  in  mind.  It  was  produced  at  the  Park  Theatre, 
September  27,  1847,  and  was  received  "with  marked  favor."  45  It  was 
then  taken  to  Boston.  Armand  is  a  romantic  play,  partly  in  blank  verse, 
laid  in  the  time  of  Louis  XV.  It  is  based  on  the  efforts  of  the  King  to 
secure  the  person  of  Blanche,  the  daughter  of  the  Duke  of  Richelieu,  the 
nobleman  who  had  been  the  villain-hero  of  Payne's  Richelieu.  She  is 
beloved  by  Armand,  who  is  made  the  representative  of  the  people,  and 
whose  democratic  expressions  were  quite  in  tone  with  the  sentiments  of 
America  in  1847. 

Mrs.  Mowatt  continued  her  successful  career  as  an  actress  in  London 
and  Dublin,  and  her  plays  were  usually  well  received.  In  London  the 
Sun  observed  that 

last  night  there  was  represented  at  the  Olympic  Theatre,  with  the  most 
deserved  success,  an  original  American  five-act  comedy,  the  scene  of  which 
is  laid  in  New  York,  and  which  delineates  American  manners  after  the  same 
fashion  as  our  Garrick,  Colman,  and  Sheridan  were  accustomed  to  delineate 
English  manners,  and  which  as  regards  plot,  construction,  character,  or  dialogue 
is  worthy  to  take  its  place  by  the  side  of  the  best  of  English  comedies.46 

After  many  adventures,  Mrs.  Mowatt  had  to  take  a  holiday  and  she 
spent  it  writing  her  Autobiography,  published  in  1854,  one  of  the  most 
fascinating  books  of  its  kind.  In  1854  she  retired  from  the  stage  and 
married  William  F.  Ritchie  of  the  Richmond  Enquirer,  Mowatt  having 
died  in  1851.  Her  last  appearance  was  on  June  3,  1854,  at  Niblo's  Garden. 
At  intervals  she  published  works  of  fiction,  but  the  most  important  for 
our  purpose  was  her  Mimic  Life:  or,  Before  and  Behind  the  Curtain 
(1855),  a  series  of  stories  dealing  with  stage  life  in  which  her  own  ex- 
periences were  often  reflected.  Mrs.  Ritchie  usually  lived  abroad  after 
1 861,  and  died  in  London,  July  28,  1870.  Real  as  her  contribution  to  our 
drama  was,  her  influence  upon  our  theatre  was  probably  even  greater. 
Coming  into  a  life  which,  notwithstanding  the  many  sterling  men  and 

44  Broadway  Journal,  July  19  and  26,  1845. 

45  Ireland,  New  York  Stage,  Vol.  2,  p.  485. 

46  Said  of  Fashion.  Quoted  in  Autobiography,  p.  326. 


5o8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

women  who  pursued  it,  still  suffered  from  the  traditions  of  loose  standards 
and  of  the  disapproval  of  the  Puritan  element  in  our  society,  she  proved 
triumphantly  that  an  American  gentlewoman  could  succeed  in  it  without 
the  alteration  of  her  own  standard  of  life.  She  took  into  the  profession 
her  high  heart,  her  utter  refinement,  her  keen  sense  of  social  values,  and 
her  infinite  capacity  for  effort,  and  her  effect  was  a  real  and  a  great  one. 
She  met  the  half-concealed  jealousy  of  the  British  companies  with  which 
she  acted  with  that  disarming  courtesy  which  the  highbred  of  her  nation 
have  perhaps  known  best  how  to  employ,  and  her  career  as  retold  in  the 
steady  sparkle  of  her  Autobiography  makes  any  compatriot  who  reads 
it  thankful  that  she  lived. 

One  of  the  best  of  the  international  contrasts  was  Nature'*  s  Nobleman, 
by  Henry  Oake  Pardey  (1808-65),  Dorn  m  England  but  writing  here. 
Nature's  Nobleman  was  first  produced  at  Burton's  Theatre  in  New  York, 
October  7,  1851,  and  was  repeated  frequently.  It  is  a  comedy  laid  in 
Saratoga  and  in  Cape  May,  New  Jersey,  and  apparently  introduces  the 
latter  summer  resort  to  the  stage.  Self,  a  comedy  by  Mrs.  Sidney  F.  Bate- 
man,  first  played  at  Bateman's  St.  Louis  Theatre  in  1856,  is  a  satire  on 
New  York  society  and  business  methods,  with  much  less  artistic  excel- 
lence than  Fashion,  but  the  character  of  John  Unit,  a  lovable  stage  uncle, 
carried  the  play  into  success.  Mrs.  Bateman's  The  Golden  Calf:  or,  Mar- 
riage a  la  Mode,  played  in  St.  Louis  in  1857,  was  laid  in  England  and  in 
Paris,  and  satirized  snobbery  and  the  love  of  money,  both  in  American 
and  English  types. 

Some  of  the  social  comedies  came  very  close  to  farce,  and  the  most 
salient  criticism  which  can  be  leveled  at  this  group  of  plays  is  that  they 
really  are  not  social  comedies  at  all,  except  in  a  very  limited  sense. 
They  are  satires  upon  the  parvenu,  upon  those  outside  of  society  who  are 
striving  to  break  in  through  wealth  and  its  attendant  publicity.  Mrs. 
Mowatt  is  one  of  the  few  who  reveals,  through  her  satire  of  a  false 
standard,  any  knowledge  of  the  real  one,  and  that  is  one  of  the  reasons 
why  her  work  so  far  surpasses  that  of  her  imitators.  Of  the  social  comedy 
in  its  broader  sense,  which  develops  or  reveals  character,  evolves  enter- 
taining situations  and  problems,  and  allows  an  individual  to  triumph  over 
circumstances,  as  in  other  forms  of  comedy,  but  which  never  loses  sight 
of  the  standards  imposed  upon  the  men  and  women  because  of  their 
social  traditions  and  relations,  this  period  knew  practically  nothing.  The 
Contrast  had  had  a  real  sense  of  this  social  consciousness,  but  that  model 
was  far  away,  and  our  stage  left  untouched  that  stratum  of  society  which 
had  its  own  standards,  traveled  and  read  widely  and,  while  appreciating 
what  Europe  had  to  give  us,  remained  content  with  its  own  heritage  of 
culture. 

One  of  the  cleverest  of  the  comedies,  however,  approached  this  stand- 
ard. Americans  in  Paris,  by  William  Henry  Hurlbert  (1829-95)  was  put 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  509 

on  at  Wallack's  Theatre,  May  8,  1858,  and  proved  to  be  deservedly 
popular.  Hurlbert  was  an  American  journalist  who  was  born  in  South 
Carolina  and  was  for  a  time  editor  of  the  New  York  World.  The  play 
deals  with  the  mistakes  consequent  upon  the  relations  of  Arthur  Morris, 
Dr.  Botherer,  and  their  wives,  Americans,  who  are  living  in  Paris.  The 
conversation  is  clever  and  the  action  rapid. 

The  romantic  comedy  in  verse  or  prose  was  not  of  equal  significance 
to  the  tragedy.  The  plays  of  Willis  and  Boker,  described  earlier,  are  by 
far  the  best.  Lester  Wallack's  play,  The  Veteran,  laid  in  France  and 
Algiers,  was  performed  at  his  theatre  on  January  17,  1859.  It  is  a  romantic 
melodrama,  better  than  the  average,  which  must  have  been  theatrically 
effective,  especially  in  the  last  act  when  Colonel  Delmar  refuses  to  betray 
his  country  to  save  his  own  life  and  that  of  his  son.47  We  have  already 
seen  how  the  comedy  types  appeared  frequently  in  delightful  confusion 
in  the  same  play,  or  were  inserted  into  a  drama  whose  main  purpose  was 
the  representation  of  history  or  of  contemporary  events.  In  such  a  case, 
clear  differentiation  or  classification  is  impossible.  Some  of  the  social 
satires  become  satires  also  of  business  and  political  conditions.  The  oppor- 
tunity to  contrast  the  rich  and  poor  was,  of  course,  not  lost,  and  so  we 
find  the  businessman,  the  honest  or  dishonest  clerk,  and  the  virtuous 
sewing  girl  treated  perhaps  as  often  as  the  aspiring  lady  of  fashion,  the 
Yankee,  or  the  fireman.  But  separate  discussion  of  these  types  would  lead 
only  to  repetition.  The  pervading  atmosphere  was  that  which  has  perme- 
ated the  domestic  drama,  a  convenient  if  not  very  definite  term.  Even 
our  social  satire,  as  has  been  seen,  was  domestic.  But  there  remains  a 
drama  which  celebrates  more  strictly  the  relations  of  the  home  and  the 
family,  without  satiric  intent,  and  of  this  species  Rip  Van  Winkle  is  the 
chief  representative.  In  view  of  Irving's  collaboration  with  Payne,  it  is 
interesting  to  note  that,  while  he  had  no  part  in  the  dramatic  versions  of 
the  story,  he  provided  a  character  and  a  situation  which  have  outlived 
every  other  on  our  stage.  So  varying  and  incomplete  have  been  the 
accounts  of  its  genesis  that  the  essential  facts  must  be  given. 

The  story  of  Rip  Van  Winkle  was  published  in  18 19.  On  May  26, 
1828,  what  appears  to  be  the  first  dramatization  in  America  was  placed 
upon  the  stage  of  the  South  Pearl  Street  Theatre  in  Albany,  New  York, 
the  author  being  "an  Albanian"  and  Rip  being  played  by  Thomas  Flynn.48 
On  October  30,  1829,  a  version  by  John  Kerr  was  produced  at  the 
Walnut  Street  Theatre,  Philadelphia.  This  is  the  first  version  that  has 
survived  and  is  extremely  rare.  John  Kerr  was  an  English  actor  who, 
together  with  his  two  children,  was  brought  to  America  for  the  Chestnut 

47  Professor  Brander  Matthews  is  authority  for  the  information  that  it  was  founded 
on  a  novel  by  James  Grant  and  the  comic  part  of  Oflan-Aghan  was  written  by  John 
Brougham,  who  played  it. 

48  See  Phelps,  H.  S.,  Players  of  a  Century  (Albany,  1880),  p.  121.  Clapp  and  Edgett, 
Plays  of  the  Present,  p.  228. 


5io  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Street  Theatre  Company  in  1827.49  He  was  a  prolific  adaptor  of  plays, 
and  his  version  had  evidently  been  played  in  London  before  he  left  that 
city,  probably  in  1825.  All  later  versions  are  based  on  this  one  by  Kerr, 
though  the  modifications  have  been  many.  Kerr  added  elements  to  the 
story,  many  of  which  have  been  eliminated  in  the  later  versions,  but  the 
famous  toast,  "Here's  to  your  good  health  and  your  family's  good  health 
and  may  you  all  live  long  and  prosper!"  remains  as  one  of  his  contribu- 
tions. A  version  made  by  Charles  Burke  (1822-54),  the  half-brother  of  the 
third  and  most  famous  Joseph  Jefferson,  in  1850;  an  English  version, 
attributed  incorrectly  to  Kerr  (later  than  1848),  which  revived  Dame 
Van  Winkle;  a  version  made  up  by  Joseph  Jefferson  the  third;  and  Dion 
Boucicault's  revision  in  1865,  which  added  the  pathetic  scene  in  which 
Dame  Van  Winkle  turns  Rip  out  of  doors,  all  merged  into  the  play  which 
Joseph  Jefferson  acted  in  for  so  many  years.  It  is  significant  that  the  play 
reverted  to  Irving's  story  as  Jefferson  proceeded  with  his  changes.50  He 
continued  to  act  in  the  part  until  his  death  in  1905. 

One  of  the  most  distinctly  native  of  the  comedy  types  was  the  "stage 
Negro."  The  first  appearance  of  a  real  American  Negro  character  on  our 
stage  in  a  play  of  native  origin  seems  to  have  been  the  character  of  Sambo 
in  J.  Murdock's  Triumphs  of  Love  at  the  Chestnut  Street  Theatre  in 
Philadelphia  on  May  22,  1795.  Sambo  is  drawn  with  some  skill  and  is 
freed  by  his  master  on  the  stage.  Sambo  sings  and  thus  at  the  beginning 
the  Negro  character  is  associated  with  the  idea  of  minstrelsy.  Some  of 
the  leading  actors  like  Edwin  Forrest  and  many  years  afterward  Edwin 
Booth  and  John  S.  Clarke  did  not  scorn  in  their  early  days  to  sing  and  act 
in  Negro  parts. 

As  has  so  often  been  the  case  in  the  theatre,  sporadic  attempts  preceded 
an  individual  artist  who  made  the  mode  his  own.  Thomas  D.  Rice,  whiLe 
a  member  of  Samuel  Drake's  company  at  the  Louisville  Theatre  in  1828, 
observed  an  old  and  deformed  Negro  singing  and  dancing  in  a  limping 
manner,  and  was  so  much  impressed  with  the  stage  possibilities  of  this 
performance  that  he  paid  the  Negro  to  teach  him  the  words  of  the  song, 
the  refrain  of  which  was: 

Wheel    about,    turn    about 

Do  jis  so. 
And  ebery  time  I  wheel  about 

I  jump  Jim  Crow. 

Rice  carried  this  song  of  Jim  Crow,  with  verses  of  his  own,  and  the 
peculiar  limping  dances,  into  fame  on  two  continents.  Naturally  the 
individual  singer  soon   led  to  the   organization   of  the  Negro  minstrel 

49  See  Wemyss,  Life,  Vol.  1,  p.  129,  for  account  of  the  Kcrrs. 

50  For  detailed  accounts  of  the  different  versions  see  Quinn,  American  Drama,  pp. 
325-33-- 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  511 

troupe,  and  the  records  of  this  organization  are  confused  and  baffling.51 
Charles  White  and  "Dan"  Emmett,  the  possible  author  of  "Dixie,"  seem 
to  have  organized  a  band  of  minstrels  in  1843,  at  the  Chatham  Theatre, 
and  the  foundation  of  the  Christy  Minstrels  is  given  as  1842.  The  latter 
became  famous  at  home  and  abroad.  But  their  career  belongs  rather  to 
the  history  of  the  theatre  than  to  that  of  the  drama.  The  main  strength 
of  Negro  minstrelsy  lay  in  its  musical  and  picturesque  extravagance,  and 
its  significance  as  drama  is  slight.  Had  it  been  the  result  of  Negro  initiative 
it  would  have  been  more  important,  but  in  its  inception  it  was  burlesque 
rather  than  sincere  imitation,  and  it  has  remained  for  comparatively 
modern  days  to  see  the  racial  strain  of  the  Negro  express  itself  in  drama. 

Many  of  the  managers  like  Wemyss,  Burton,  Brougham,  and  the  elder 
Wallack,  were  British  and  they  did  not  respond  instinctively  to  the  appeal 
of  American  themes.  Yet  despite  all  discouragement,  the  very  quantity 
of  these  native  comedies  and  melodramas  shows  the  demand  of  the  theat- 
rical public  for  a  native  drama.  Crude  as  some  of  these  products  were,  the 
foundations  that  had  been  laid  in  the  earlier  period  were  strengthened 
in  this  one.  The  humor  of  the  Yankee,  the  rollicking  spirit  of  the  fireman, 
the  avid  craving  of  the  parvenu,  the  rough  courage  of  the  frontiersman, 
the  melodious  eccentricities  of  the  Negro,  were  woven  into  plays  that 
delighted  thousands,  without  bitterness  or  morbidity. 

By  the  most  acid  test  of  drama,  they  rise  to  a  real  significance  in  that 
they  provided  actors  with  parts  that  stimulated  the  representation  of 
real  characters,  human  to  their  finger  tips,  upon  the  stage.  How  great  was 
the  response,  popular  and  critical,  to  these  performances  may  be  appre- 
ciated only  when  we  read  the  contemporary  judgment  of  those  qualified 
to  speak.52  And  the  torch  was  handed  on  from  Woodworth  to  Heme, 
from  Mrs.  Mowatt  to  Bronson  Howard,  from  Baker  to  Augustin  Daly,  as 
Dunlap  and  Barker  and  Payne  had  handed  it  to  them. 

The  romantic  tragedy  and  the  romantic  comedy  in  verse  passed  to  a 
great  degree  from  the  stage.  The  classic-realistic  reaction  in  the  novel 
and  in  other  forms  of  poetry  was  in  the  air.  But  there  is  no  more  satis- 
factory retrospect  to  an  historian  of  our  drama  than  the  steady  progress 
from  the  Prince  of  Parthia  to  Francesca  da  Rimini.  Perhaps  when  we  are 
weary  of  discovering  and  rediscovering  what  is  base  or  banal  in  our 
civilization  we  may  turn  back  for  comfort  to  the  poets  who  wrought  for 
the  sake  of  beauty  that  is  universal  and  with  the  art  that  defies  the  limita- 
tions of  time  or  space.  And  if  that  day  ever  dawns,  Bird,  Boker,  Willis 
and  the  romantic  drama  of  this  period  may  come  at  last  into  their  own. 

5 1  For  accounts  of  early  Negro  drama  see  Laurence  Hutton,  Curiosities  of  the 
American  Stage  (1891),  pp.  1 15-120.  Wemyss,  Life,  Vol.  1,  pp.  206-207. 

5  2  See  the  searching  yet  enthusiastic  analysis  of  Jefferson  in  Rip  Van  Winkle,  John 
Sleeper  Clarke  as  Salem  Scudder,  in  The  Octoroon,  John  E.  Owens  as  Mose  the 
fireman  and  Solon  Shingle,  by  L.  Clarke  Davis,  editor  of  the  Philadelphia  Ledger, 
in  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  19  (June,  1867),  pp.  750-761. 


5i2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Although  we  are  concerned  in  this  history  with  the  work  of  American 
playwrights,  in  the  middle  of  the  century  there  came  to  this  country  a 
foreign  craftsman  who  exercised  such  a  powerful  influence  upon  our 
drama  that  he  and  his  work  must  be  considered  in  any  survey  that  claims 
to  be  complete.  Dion  Boucicault  was  born  in  Dublin,  Ireland,  either  in 
1820  or  1822,  and  his  parentage  is  disputed.53  His  early  play  writing  in 
England  does  not  concern  us  vitally,  nor  do  the  years  in  which  he  acquired 
an  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  French  language  and  lost  his  first  wife. 
When  he  came  to  New  York  in  September,  1835,  he  had  married  Agnes 
Robertson,  long  to  be  identified  with  the  heroines  of  his  plays. 

Boucicault  identified  himself  as  soon  as  possible  with  the  dramatic 
institutions  of  his  adopted  country.  He  found  to  his  surprise  that  owing 
to  the  lack  of  a  copyright  law  which  would  protect  the  dramatist  in  the 
sole  right  that  was  valuable  to  him,  the  right  of  representation,  the  play- 
wrights were  loath  to  print  their  plays  even  if  allowed  to  do  so  by  the 
actors  or  managers  who  controlled  them.  For  some  years  playwrights 
like  Bird  and  Boker  had  been  laboring  with  Congress  to  remove  this  in- 
justice. Stirred  by  Forrest's  treatment,  Bird  had  secured  the  introduction 
of  a  copyright  law  in  the  early  forties,  but  it  came  to  nothing,  and  in 
1853  Boker  had  made  another  attempt  to  remedy  the  injustice.54  In  1856 
Boucicault  added  his  efforts  and  finally  the  first  copyright  law  was  passed, 
August  18,  1856,  which  gave  the  author  of  a  play  "along  with  the  sole 
right  to  print  and  publish  the  said  composition,  the  sole  right  also  to  act, 
perform,  or  represent  the  same."  55 

This  law  did  not,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  prove  as  effective  as  its  sponsors 
hoped.  The  difficulties  of  detecting  the  violation  of  its  provisions  were 
so  great  that  dramatists  sometimes  preferred  to  proceed  without  its  pro- 
tection and  depend  upon  a  suit  in  equity  to  preserve  their  rights.  It  would 
have  had  a  more  stimulating  effect  upon  the  printing  of  plays  if  the  law, 
instead  of  permitting  the  copyright  to  be  secured  by  the  filing  of  a  title, 
had  required  the  deposit  of  the  complete  text.  The  law  placed  the  play- 
wright, however,  in  a  more  respected  light.  Heretofore  he  had  been  the 
unprotected  prey  of  all  who  chose  to  steal  the  labor  of  his  brains.  Now 
he  was  the  proprietor  of  his  own  works  and  the  law  was  his  protector. 

Boucicault  wrote  or  adapted  about  150  plays.  We  can  here  call  atten- 
tion only  to  certain  famous  or  typical  dramas.  His  Louis  XI  (1855-58), 
was  long  a  starring  vehicle  for  Henry  Irving,  but  remained  unpublished 
until  1 94 1.  He  adapted  from  Les  Pauvres  de  Paris  (1856),  by  Edouard 

'  I  lie  MS  of  Louis  XI  was  discovered  in  London  by  Julius  Tolson,  who  generously 
permitted  its  publication  in  America's  Lost  Plays.  Unfortunately  his  monograph  on 
Boucicault  with  much  new  material  remains  still  unpublished. 

■ '  See  the  interesting  letter  from  Bird  to  Boker,  describing  the  difficulties  of  the 
dramatist's  lot  in  America,  found  among  the  Bird  MSS  and  printed  by  C.  N.  Foust  in 
his  Life  and  Works  of  Bird  (1919),  pp.  147-150. 

:>:>  Copyright  Enactments  of  the  United  States  (Washington,  1906),  p.  43. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  513 

Brisebarre  and  Eugene  Nus,  one  of  the  most  popular  of  his  plays.  The 
Poor  of  New  York  is  not  a  great  play,  but  it  illustrates  the  sense  of 
theatrical  values  which  Boucicault  possessed  beyond  any  of  his  contempo- 
raries. As  it  was  performed,  December  8,  1857,  the  action  was  laid  largely 
during  the  panics  of  1837  and  1857.  Boucicault  readapted  the  play  on  his 
next  voyage  to  England  and  renamed  it  The  Poor  of  Liverpool;  and,  still 
later,  as  The  Streets  of  London,  it  delighted  thousands  in  that  city.  It 
belonged,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  to  no  locality,  for  virtuous  and  deserving 
poverty  can  find,  on  the  stage,  eternal  sympathy. 

In  The  Octoroon,  produced  on  December  5,  1859,  Boucicault  showed 
his  keen  sense  of  the  dramatic  possibilities  of  an  American  theme.  Not- 
withstanding the  success  of  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin,  it  might  have  been  a 
doubtful  experiment  to  produce  a  play  which  could  inflame  the  passions 
of  sectional  hatred.  John  Brown's  raid  had  occurred  on  October  16th  and 
his  execution  took  place  on  December  2,  1859.  But  Boucicault  had  no 
propaganda  in  view.  He  realized  that  the  love  of  a  white  man  for  a  colored 
woman,  owned  by  him,  and  in  danger  of  being  torn  from  him  by  his 
enemy  under  protection  of  the  law,  was  a  dramatic  theme  of  real  value. 
He  found  his  material,  as  usual,  at  hand.  Mayne  Reid  had  published  in 
New  York,  in  1856,  a  novel,  The  Quadroon,  in  which  an  Englishman, 
Edward  Rutherford,  falls  in  love  with  a  quadroon  slave,  Aurore.  Bouci- 
cault skillfully  altered  this  material  and  added  new  characters.  Rutherford 
becomes  George  Peyton,  the  young  Southern  heir  to  a  plantation,  which 
is  about  to  be  sold  for  debt.  George  loves  Zoe,  the  natural  daughter  of 
his  uncle,  the  former  owner,  and  Boucicault's  sense  of  the  dramatic  is 
indicated  in  the  very  change  of  the  title  to  The  Octoroon,  for  the  less 
Negro  blood  runs  in  the  veins  of  the  slave,  the  more  tragic  is  her  situation. 
The  Negro  characters,  headed  by  Old  Pete,  were  used  in  a  clever  fashion. 
The  scene  in  which  Pete  encourages  the  others  to  look  their  best  at  the 
forthcoming  auction  in  order  that  their  old  mistress  and  young  master 
may  have  something  left  to  live  upon,  is  fine  drama.  Jefferson,  who  acted 
Salem  Scudder,  one  of  the  Northern  overseers,  rightly  accounts  for  the 
approval  with  which  audiences,  made  up  of  both  parties  to  the  Slavery 
struggle,  viewed  the  play.  "The  truth  of  the  matter  is,"  he  says  "it  was 
noncommittal.  The  dialogue  and  characters  of  the  play  made  one  feel  for 
the  South,  but  the  action  proclaimed  against  slavery  and  called  loudly 
for  its  abolition."  The  Octoroon  was  played  for  years  and  has  been  re- 
vived frequently  in  this  century. 

Another  instance  of  Boucicault's  attempts  to  employ  American  themes 
lay  in  his  Belle  Lamar,  which  was  laid  in  the  Shenandoah  Valley  during 
the  spring  of  1862  and  was  one  of  the  earliest  of  the  Civil  War  plays. 
Produced  unsuccessfully  in  1874,  but  not  published  until  1933,  it  kept 
the  sympathy  of  the  audience  for  both  the  North  and  the  South,  and  al- 
though the  play  is  too  heroic  and  there  are  some  very  curious  occurrences 


5 14  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  a  military  camp,  it  is  difficult  to  see,  in  view  of  the  success  of  other  war 
plays,  the  reason  for  its  failure. 

Boucicault  scored  his  greatest  success  in  the  interpretation  of  Irish 
character.  There  had,  of  course,  been  a  long  succession  of  Irish  characters 
on  the  American  stage,  but  they  had  simply  represented  types  quite  fa- 
miliar to  the  British  theatre  and  they  had  been  employed  almost  entirely 
for  the  purpose  of  farce  or  burlesque.  Comparatively  few  of  these  plays 
were  written  by  native  Americans  and  they  are  valueless,  so  far  as  any 
real  interpretation  of  Irish  character  is  concerned.  But  when  Dion  Bouci- 
cault produced  The  Colleen  Baivn  in  i860  all  was  changed.  Based  upon 
Gerald  Griffin's  novel,  The  Collegians,  which  was  itself  founded  upon 
actual  facts,  Boucicault  greatly  modified  the  plot  and  characters  of  the 
novel,  with  the  result  that  for  the  first  time  real  Irish  life  was  placed  upon 
the  stage  in  America.  Because  the  Irish  gentlefolk,  not  of  the  "garrison" 
but  of  the  ancient  Irish  stock,  did  not  make  good  material  for  burlesque, 
that  department  of  Irish  life  which  makes  up  the  backbone  of  the  nation, 
had  previously  been  neglected  in  writing  for  the  stage.  But  Boucicault 
knew  the  Irish  people  and,  although  the  hero  and  heroine  are  not  of  the 
gentry,  they  are  definitely  not  peasants  and  the  depicting  of  these  people 
against  the  background  of  Irish  gentlefolk  makes  for  contrast  and  effec- 
tive drama.  Moreover,  Boucicault  understood  the  Celtic  nature,  its  depths 
of  tenderness,  of  loyalty,  of  devotion  to  a  person  or  a  cause,  as  well  as 
its  gusts  of  passion  and  weakness,  its  illimitable  patience  and  hopefulness 
under  misery,  and  its  fatal  sense,  even  in  the  midst  of  happiness,  of  the 
fingers  of  fate  at  its  throat.  These  contrasts  and  shadings  provide  great 
opportunities  for  drama  and  Boucicault  was  able  to  translate  them  into 
terms  of  real  life. 

In  The  O'Dowd  (1873),  based  on  Les  Crochets  du  Fere  Martin,  a 
French  domestic  drama  (1858),  we  have  again  an  interesting  example  of 
Boucicault's  methods  of  adaptation.  He  took  the  central  theme  of  a 
father  sacrificing  himself  to  save  a  prodigal  son,  but  he  changed  the  pro- 
vincial bourgeois  of  Havre  to  the  Celtic  chieftain  of  Galway,  who  had 
won  back,  by  hard  toil  and  by  personal  daring  in  his  fisherman's  craft, 
the  acres  of  his  ancestors. 

The  most  amazing  quality  of  Boucicault  was  his  fecundity.  After  nearly 
forty  years  of  constant  labor,  he  wrote  one  of  the  best  of  his  plays,  The 
Shaughraun,  first  produced  in  New  York  in  1874,  founded  on  an  incident 
that  happened  in  County  Sligo  during  the  Fenian  insurrection  in  1866. 
Conn,  the  Shaughraun,  "the  soul  of  every  fair,  the  life  of  every  funeral, 
the  first  fiddle  at  all  weddings  and  parties,"  as  the  program  indicated,  is 
one  of  those  creations  that  belong  with  Rip  Van  Winkle,  whom  indeed 
he  somewhat  resembles.  Boucicault  played  the  part,  and  he  interpreted  to 
the  life  the  generous,  hearty,  irresponsible  and  none  too  sober  wanderer, 
ever  ready  to  help  others,  but  with  little  of  an  eye  to  his  own  concerns. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  515 

Boucicault  coined  the  name  from  the  Gaelic  word  to  go  "a  shaughraun," 
meaning  to  wander.  He  is  the  guiding  spirit  of  the  play,  aiding  Robert 
Ffolliott,  a  young  Irish  gentleman  and  patriot,  in  his  escapes,  meeting 
craft  with  shrewdness,  and  shamming  death  at  his  own  wake  to  secure 
the  secrets  of  the  enemy.  He  is  one  of  those  puzzles  to  moralists  who 
wonder  why  such  a  contradiction  in  moral  values  always  touches  the 
hearts  of  theatregoers,  but  the  clever  dramatist  who  created  him  knew 
and  shared  the  weaknesses  of  human  beings  as  well  as  their  strengths.  If 
Conn  is  not  moral,  he  helps  virtue;  if  he  is  careless,  it  is  always  of  himself. 
The  Irish  gentlefolk  are  well  drawn,  but  the  best  drawn  characters  out- 
side of  Conn  were  Father  Dolan,  the  parish  priest,  and  Harvey  Duff,  the 
informer.  Broken  in  fortunes,  Boucicault  finally  accepted  a  position  as 
teacher  in  a  school  of  acting  established  in  connection  with  the  Madison 
Square  Theatre.  When  he  died,  on  September  18,  1890,  he  had  under  way 
a  dramatization  of  The  Luck  of  Roaring  Camp. 

It  has  been  necessary  to  pass  far  beyond  the  limits  of  the  period  in 
order  to  complete  the  treatment  of  Boucicault's  work.  It  was,  however, 
in  i860,  that  he  took  a  step  which  profoundly  affected  the  drama  in 
America.  To  him  is  due  the  development  of  the  traveling  company  with 
one  play,  an  institution  which  changed  the  fundamental  conceptions  of 
the  relation  of  the  play  to  the  company  and  that  of  the  author  to  the 
producer  and  actor.  Throughout  our  early  dramatic  history  complaint 
is  frequent  concerning  the  evils  of  the  star  system,  but  up  to  i860,  the 
star  was  superimposed  upon  a  stock  company,  which  remained  fairly 
constant  in  personnel  and  which  supported  the  occasional  visiting  star 
in  plays  of  his  choosing.  Managers  in  Philadelphia,  Boston,  St.  Louis, 
Baltimore,  or  elsewhere  maintained  stock  companies  which  produced 
new  plays  for  a  week  or  two,  varied  by  revivals  of  so-called  "stock  pieces," 
consisting  of  the  work  of  the  older  dramatists  from  Shakespeare  down. 
There  was  thus  afforded  an  opportunity  for  American  playwrights  to  see 
their  work  tried  out,  whenever  the  local  pride  or  real  dramatic  insight  on 
a  manager's  part  caused  him  to  attempt  the  production  of  a  native  play. 
Inadequate  recompense,  incompetent  criticism,  and  slovenly  production 
could  not  wholly  discourage  the  playwrights  whose  impulse  to  create 
resulted  in  the  significant  dramatic  literature  of  this  period. 

Curiously  enough,  it  was  Boucicault's  emphasis  upon  the  play  as  being 
of  greater  significance  than  the  actor  which  brought  about  the  downfall 
of  the  early  drama.  He  had  been  insistent  in  his  efforts  to  secure  the 
dramatist's  rights  in  his  own  work,  and  about  i860,  he  conceived  the  idea 
that  instead  of  sending  a  star  around  the  theatrical  circuit  of  that  day,  a 
second  company  could  be  sent  out  from  London  or  New  York  in  a  suc- 
cessful play  and  the  drama  could  be  billed  as  the  attraction.  He  began  in 
England  with  The  Colleen  Bawn,  and  offered  a  company  in  this  play  as 
an  attraction  to  the  managers  in  other  cities.  There  were  obvious  difficul- 


5i6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

ties,  but  the  success  of  the  project  from  a  financial  point  of  view  led  the 
managers,  one  by  one,  to  adopt  the  new  idea  and  the  disintegration  of 
the  stock  companies  began.56  In  America  the  change  was  not  accom- 
plished suddenly  nor  was  it  unheralded.  The  traveling  company  was,  of 
course,  as  old  as  Hallam's  day,  but  the  early  traveling  companies  did  not 
limit  themselves  to  one  play.  They  were  traveling  stock  companies  with 
their  own  repertoires.  Changes  in  methods  of  transportation  made  Bouci- 
cault's  scheme  possible.  In  1849  there  were  less  than  6,000  miles  of  railroad 
in  the  United  States.  By  the  end  of  i860  there  were  30,635  miles.  In  1850, 
it  was  impossible  to  go  by  direct  railway  from  New  York  to  either 
Boston  or  Albany.  In  i860,  New  York  had  continuous  lines  reaching  west 
of  the  Mississippi.57 

The  effect  upon  the  American  playwright  was  obviously  unfortunate. 
If  a  successful  play  could  fill  a  New  York  theatre  for  a  hundred  nights 
and  a  second  company  could  tour  other  cities  with  the  same  play,  the 
opportunities  for  new  plays  became  much  more  limited.  In  time,  of  course, 
the  growth  of  population  and  the  multiplicity  of  theatres  would  tend  to 
offset  this  temporary  limitation  of  opportunity.  But  an  historian  of  our 
drama  cannot  help  speculating  on  what  might  have  come  out  of  the  old 
stock  system  with  more  theatres,  with  the  abolition  of  social  prejudice  that 
was  growing,  but  along  with  these,  the  retention  of  the  local  pride,  the 
independence  of  the  commercial  center,  the  direct  contact  of  playwright 
and  manager,  which  had  belonged  to  the  old  regime.  Today,  a  return  to 
this  system  is  being  urged  as  one  means  of  curing  unfortunate  conditions 
in  the  theatre. 

War  conditions  at  first  disturbed  and  hurt  the  theatre  and  the  drama. 
But  it  would  be  easy  to  overemphasize  this  disturbance.  Indeed,  the 
destruction  of  outworn  prejudices  and  of  outgrown  social  instincts  by  the 
larger  interest  of  war  may  have  helped  the  stage  in  more  than  one  im- 
portant aspect.  The  panic  of  1857  had  hurt  the  theatre,  of  course,  but  the 
theatre  had  become  accustomed  to  panics,  and  the  long  record  of  ruin 
which  followed  theatrical  managers  in  this  country  during  the  period 
we  have  been  considering  was  due  to  causes  more  specific  and  more 
profound.  The  appalling  list  of  the  theatres  destroyed  by  fire,  which 
Rccs  compiled  in  1845/'*  and  which  is  probably  incomplete,  shows  that 
twenty-five  were  burned  between  1820  and  1845.  Owing  to  the  methods 
of  lighting,  to  carelessness,  and  to  incendiarism,  the  theatre  was  a  place 

56  Sec  Walsh's  Boucicault,  pp.  178-179,  based  upon  Boucicault's  account  in  "Leaves 
from  a  Dramatist's  Diary,"  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  98  (Aug.  1889),  pp.  232-233. 
Yet  in  America  Mrs.  John  Drew  organized  a  stock  company  at  the  Arch  Street 
Theatre  in  Philadelphia  in  i860  and  Laura  Keene  started  a  stock  company  at  the 
Chestnut  Street  Theatre  in  1869.  The  stock  companies  in  New  York  City  were,  of 
course,  not  so  vitally  affected. 

•r>7  J.  F.  Rhodes,  History  of  the  United  States  (1895),  Vol.  3,  p.  18. 

5y  Dramatic  Authors  of  America  (Philadelphia,  1845),  pp.  140-142. 


REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA  517 

of  personal  danger.  And  to  a  large  section  of  the  population,  it  seemed 
even  more  of  a  moral  danger.  The  old  prejudice  against  the  stage  died 
hard,  and  during  the  fifties,  when  the  moral  sense  of  the  people  was  being 
stirred  to  the  depths  by  the  question  of  Abolition,  it  revived  in  full  force. 
A  professor  in  the  University  of  the  City  of  New  York  told  Ampere, 
the  French  traveler,  that  if  he  went  to  the  theatre,  he  would  be  in  danger 
of  losing  his  position.  The  revival  of  evangelical  religious  interest  took 
a  definitely  hostile  attitude  toward  the  theatre.  At  one  of  the  daily  noon 
prayer  meetings  which  were  held  in  Burton's  old  theatre  in  Chambers 
Street,  in  1858,  "a  young  man  related  how,  becoming  an  actor  at  sixteen, 
he  had  played  in  Burton's  Theatre,  but  since  God  had  adopted  him,  he 
would  forsake  the  stage  to  embrace  the  cross."  Another  man  confessed 
that  he  had  been  to  see  Burton  play  Aminadeb  Sleek  in  The  Serious 
Family  and  had  been  disgusted  with  that  burlesque  on  evangelical  religion. 
He  was  glad  to  be  there  under  different  circumstances  among  "serious 
and  anxious  souls."  On  another  occasion,  a  man  in  the  parquet  fervently 
prayed  for  Burton  that  "the  Great  Father  might  let  him  know  there  was 
a  God."  "It  is  related  that  Burton  was  present  and  was  visibly  affected 
at  being  the  subject  of  so  earnest  a  petition."  59 

Certainly  the  increase  in  the  volume  of  theatrical  amusement  beginning 
about  1862  is  an  indication  that  popular  prejudice  was  subsiding.  Theat- 
rical interruptions  are  usually  temporary;  dramatic  changes  are  more 
subtle  and  it  is  necessary  again  to  emphasize  the  continuity  of  our  dram- 
atic impulse.  But,  in  a  real  sense,  the  first  period  and  the  first  century  in 
the  American  drama  were  over.  Realistic  portrayal  of  familiar  life  was  to 
have  its  day,  in  fact  had  already  begun  that  day  in  the  novel  and  on  the 
stage.  With  this  keener  sense  for  realism  and  the  passing  of  romantic 
tragedy,  the  vogue  of  verse  plays  declined,  and  the  movement  that  had 
brought  Bird,  Boker  and  Willis  into  the  dramatic  field  became,  in  part, 
abortive.  But,  as  has  already  been  indicated,  the  roots  of  the  later  drama 
of  national  and  local  types,  the  social  comedy,  and  the  domestic  drama 
had  been  laid  deep  in  the  traditions  of  the  American  stage  and  were  to 
produce  fruit  in  the  future.  But  the  drama  from  the  beginning  to  the 
Civil  War  must  not  be  estimated  primarily  in  terms  of  its  effects  upon 
that  future.  Born  in  the  minds  of  a  few  college  boys  in  the  mid-eighteenth 
century,  it  struggled  under  discouraging  conditions  for  many  years  before 
it  received  even  a  tardy  recognition.  Without  the  enthusiastic  national 
approval  that  supported  the  Elizabethan  drama,  or  the  favor  of  a  court 
which  patronized  the  plays  of  the  Restoration  or  of  the  days  of  Goldsmith 
and  Sheridan,  it  had  to  meet  almost  all  the  difficulties  which  the  British 
drama  experienced  in  the  nineteenth  century.  In  addition,  it  encountered 
foreign  competition  unprotected  by  law.  For  many  years  it  had  to  beg 

59  Rhodes,  History,  Vol.  3,  p.  104,  quoting  from  the  New  York  Times  of  March  23, 
and  the  Independent  of  March  25,  1858. 


5i8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

for  consideration  at  the  hands  of  managers  and  actors  who,  being  of 
foreign  birth,  were  not  warmly  interested  in  the  encouragement  of  Ameri- 
can art.  Hardest  of  all  to  bear  was  the  native  indifference  which  distrusted 
all  artistic  effort  on  the  part  of  an  American,  and  the  critical  stupidity 
which  followed  foreign  standards  in  expecting  that  he  limit  his  themes 
to  his  own  country,  a  standard  never  demanded  of  any  other  race. 

Yet,  notwithstanding  these  conditions,  as  we  have  seen,  a  devoted  band 
of  playwrights  treated  with  skill  and  sympathy  the  history  of  their  coun- 
try, touching  with  loyal  fidelity  the  great  figures  that  founded  the  Repub- 
lic, endowing  with  romance  the  aboriginal  natives  and  even  transferring, 
warm  from  action,  the  heroic  episodes  of  conflicts  with  man  and  nature 
that  were  establishing  firmly  the  far-flung  limits  of  the  United  States. 
Others  brought  to  the  stage  the  types  of  characters  that  delighted  with 
their  comedy  audiences  which  saw  themselves  reflected  in  a  mimic  world. 
Others  sought  in  distant  lands  and  loves  the  freedom  of  choice  which 
enabled  them  to  depict  intense  emotions,  sublime  self-sacrifice,  or  tender 
fidelity  to  a  hopeless  passion.  Of  all  forms  of  our  literature  the  drama  has 
been  the  least  known  or  appreciated  by  historians  or  critics,  yet  the 
hundreds  of  American  plays  of  this  period  recorded  in  the  histories  of 
the  stage  reveal  not  only  the  demands  for  entertainment  but  also  how 
deep  a  hold  it  had  upon  the  affections  of  the  people.  And,  as  one  by  one, 
the  masterpieces  of  this  drama  are  drawn  from  the  obscurity  where  un- 
favorable copyright  laws  or  managerial  cupidity  had  kept  them,  their 
own  intrinsic  artistic  worth  and  their  significance  in  the  social  history  of 
America  may  be  revealed  to  the  descendants  and  successors  of  the  genera- 
tions whom  they  delighted  upon  the  stage. 


Chapter  27 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS 


One  of  the  most  difficult  decisions  for  a  critic  to  make  lies  in  the  selec- 
tion of  those  historians  whose  work  is  of  permanent  value  as  literature. 
Prescott  probably  contributed  the  most  important  element  to  the  decision 
when,  following  Aiably's  Sur  FEtude  de  FHistoire,  he  said 

I  like  particularly  his  notion  of  the  necessity  of  giving  an  interest  as  well  as 
utility  to  history,  by  letting  events  tend  to  some  obvious  point  or  moral;  in 
short  by  paying  such  attention  to  the  development  of  events  tending  to  this 
leading  result,  as  one  would  in  the  construction  of  a  romance  or  a  drama.1 

It  is  also  interesting  to  note  Prescott 's  comparison  of  the  relative  validity 
of  history  and  fiction  as  revelations  of  life: 

The  moral  and  social  organization  of  a  people  is  certainly  not  less  interesting 
to  the  philosophical  student  than  the  deeds  of  violence  and  intrigue  which 
chequer  the  pages  of  history.  The  poems  of  Homer  have  done  more  to  acquaint 
us  with  the  domestic  constitution  of  the  Greeks  than  all  their  histories  together 
and  where  are  we  to  gain  as  clear  a  conception  of  character  as  from  the 
Waverley  novels?  History  represents  events  as  they  are  and  men  as  they 
appear;  while  fiction  represents  events  as  they  appear  probable  and  men  as  they 
are.2 

He  then  analyzes  the  contradictions  of  histories  written  at  different 
times. 

Such  a  standard  leads  to  the  choice  of  Irving,  Bancroft,  Prescott  and 
Motley  as  representative  of  the  literary  historians  of  this  period.  It  is  also 
because  these  men  were  poets,  critics  or  writers  of  fiction  that  their  work 
is  touched  with  an  imaginative  quality  which  may  be  anathema  to  the 
modern  scientific  historian,  but  which  has  given  them  a  secure  place  in 
the  record  of  our  literature.  For  convenience  Irving's  contribution  has 

1  Quoted  by  George  Ticknor,  Life  of  Prescott  (1864),  p.  95. 

2  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  25   (July,  1827),  pp.  183-203. 

5i9 


52o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

been  discussed,  in  a  general  appraisement  of  his  work,  which  included 
much  that  was  not  history. 

Bancroft,  too,  lived  a  varied  life  but  his  history  was  his  main  achieve- 
ment. He  was  born  in  Worcester,  Massachusetts,  October  3,  1800.  Grad- 
uating from  Harvard  in  18 17,  he  took  his  doctorate  in  Philosophy  at 
Gottingen  in  1820,  preparing  for  a  career  in  theology  or  scholarship. 
The  next  year  he  spent  at  Berlin  where  he  heard  Hegel  in  philosophy, 
Wolf  in  philology,  and  Schleiermacher  in  educational  theory.  He  visited 
Goethe  and  through  Irving  at  Paris  his  horizon  was  farther  widened  by 
the  kindness  of  Lafayette.  Returning  in  1822,  he  became  a  tutor  in  Greek 
at  Harvard,  and  won  his  first  reputation  as  a  critic  with  his  masterly 
articles  on  German  literature  and  national  characteristics  in  Walsh's 
American  Quarterly  Review  in  1827  and  1828.  His  political  insight  showed 
already  in  the  remark:  "Had  its  hardy  population  been  bound  together 
under  one  master,  the  liberty  of  the  old  world  would  have  been  at 
their  mercy." 

Bancroft  published  first  a  volume  of  verse  in  1823,  romantic  descrip- 
tions of  Switzerland  and  Italy,  but  of  his  early  utterances  the  most  signifi- 
cant was  his  address  on  "The  Office  of  the  People  in  Art,  Government 
and  Religion"  delivered  before  the  Adelphi  Society  of  Williamstown 
College  in  August,  1835.  This  eloquent  discussion  showed  that  Bancroft's 
democracy  was  fundamental.  He  believed  in  the  people,  in  the  perman- 
ence of  their  judgments,  because  they  have  the  future  in  their  charge. 
It  is  not  the  voice  of  a  demagogue,  but  of  a  philosopher  who  knew  history. 
He  carried  the  doctrine  of  the  universal  reason  to  its  logical  ultimate 
in  democracy,  going  beyond  Emerson. 

Reason  exists  within  every  breast,  [he  said]  I  mean  not  that  faculty  which 
deduces  inference  from  the  experience  of  the  senses,  but  that  higher  faculty, 
which  from  the  infinite  treasures  of  its  own  consciousness,  originates  truth, 
and  assents  to  it  by  the  force  of  intuitive  evidence:  that  faculty  which  raises 
us  beyond  the  control  of  time  and  space,  and  gives  us  faith  in  things  eternal 
and  invisible.3 

In  this  doctrine  Bancroft  allied  Democracy  with  Transcendentalism. 
He  announced  our  possession  of  four  freedoms:  "Freedom  of  mind  and 
of  conscience,  freedom  of  the  seas,  freedom  of  industry."  4 

It  was  this  scion  of  New  England  Federalism  who  advocated  universal 
education,  as  a  right  and  not  as  a  privilege,  who  founded  his  belief  in 
democracy  upon  its  origin  in  Christianity  itself.  In  his  essay  on  the 
"Decline  of  the  Roman  People"  (1834),  he  showed  how  a  despotism  is 
brought  about  by  an  oligarchy  to  protect  the  people  from  irresponsible 
government.  "History,"  Bancroft  said,  "has  consisted  mainly  of  the  per- 

'■'•  Literary  and  Historical  Miscellanies  (1855),  p.  409.  References  are  to  this  edition. 
1  Literary  and  Historical  Miscellanies,  p.  423. 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS  521 

sonal  achievements  of  a  few  individuals,  the  victories  of  armies,  the 
scandals  of  courts,  the  intrigues  of  the  palace;  on  the  character,  rights 
and  progress  of  the  great  mass  of  the  people  it  has  been  silent."  5  His 
political  belief,  in  spite  of  his  marriage  to  Sarah  Dwight,  a  member  of  a 
strong  Whig  family,  was  Democratic,  and  from  1826  when  he  made  a 
Fourth  of  July  address  at  Northampton,  it  was  definite.  This  fundamental 
belief  in  the  people  was  fortified  by  his  historical  training,  which  led  to  a 
scrutiny  of  the  sources,  as  well  as  the  broad  vision  which  could  evolve 
a  pattern  of  history  with  a  deeper  meaning  than  contemporary  testimony 
alone  could  supply.  In  1834  appeared  the  first  volume  of  his  History  of 
the  United  States  from  the  Discovery  of  the  American  Continent.  It  cov- 
ered the  period  up  to  1660  and  established  the  development  of  the  ideas 
of  freedom  in  the  Colonies.  Bancroft  intended  to  bring  the  record  down 
to  his  own  time,  but  for  his  kind  of  historical  writing,  he  needed  plenty 
of  room.  It  was  not  simply  a  record  of  events;  he  was  concerned  with 
the  philosophy,  the  causes  and  often  the  effects  of  these  events.  To  bring 
these  vividly  before  his  readers,  he  wrote  with  a  dramatic  style,  which, 
if  at  times  it  becomes  grandiose,  yet  even  today,  when  later  historians 
have  worked  with  new  material,  keeps  our  interest  through  Bancroft's 
command  of  language.  The  ten  volumes  of  the  first  form  of  the  History 
came  in  1837,  1840,  1852,  1854,  1858,  i860,  1866,  and  1874,  anc^  concluded 
with  the  signing  of  the  treaty  of  peace  which  brought  the  Revolution 
to  its  end. 

Bancroft's  progress  was  interrupted  somewhat  by  his  political  career.6 
His  residence  in  London,  as  minister  to  Great  Britain  from  1846  to  1849, 
was  of  course  fruitful  in  opening  to  him  access  to  files  in  the  British 
Imperial  offices,  and  in  private  collections.  It  has  been  estimated  that  when 
he  returned  to  the  United  States  he  carried  the  most  complete  collection 
of  source  material  from  British  and  from  French  national  archives  anv 
American  historian  had  acquired.7  Thiers,  Guizot  and  De  Tocqueville  had 
recognized  his  position  and  made  his  path  easy,  and  the  Institut  de  France 
elected  him  a  corresponding  member  in  the  history  section  of  the 
Academy  of  Moral  and  Political  Sciences,  the  first  American  to  be  so 
honored.  Oxford  gave  him  a  D.C.L.  These  honors  were  in  sharp  contrast 
with  his  summary  recall  by  President  Taylor. 

There  was  more  truly  a  literary  quality  in  the  ten  volumes  than  in  the 
revision  in  six  volumes  which  Bancroft  began  to  publish  in  1875.  The  latter 
is  more  accurate  in  details  and  more  condensed,8  but  vivid  and  eloquent 
passages,  like  that  which  tells  of  the  treaty  and  the  unbroken  peace  be- 

5  Literary  and  Historical  Miscellanies,  p.  283. 

6  Summarized  in  Chapter  25. 

7  See  M.  A.  De  W.  Howe,  Life  of  Bancroft  (1908),  Vol.  2,  pp.  42-44;  101-102;  and 
R.  B.  Nye,  George  Bancroft  (1944),  pp.  166-168,  for  details. 

8  The  condensation,  however,  is  more  apparent  than  real.  The  six  volumes  were 
set  in  smaller  type  and  had  about  1,323,035  words  as  compared  with  1,339,250. 


522  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tween  Penn  and  the  Indians9  might  well  have  been  retained.  In  the  con- 
trasted picture  of  the  wars  in  New  England  between  the  English  settlers 
and  the  native  tribes,  Bancroft  showed  his  ability  at  clear  antitheses  which 
go  to  the  heart  of  a  situation:  "They  rose  without  hope,  and,  therefore 
they  fought  without  mercy.  For  them  as  a  nation,  there  was  no  tomor- 
row." 10  The  careful  recital  of  events  which  led  to  the  Revolution,  being 
often  reflections  of  struggles  over  taxation  and  commerce,  are  not  as 
truly  literature  as  the  earlier  accounts  of  settlement,  of  suffering,  fortitude 
and  death.  But  when  Bancroft  reaches  the  Revolution  itself,  he  writes 
in  an  epic  style. 

In  volume  six,  Bancroft's  political  instincts  made  vivid  his  picture  of 
the  struggles  in  Parliament  between  the  old  Whig  Party  and  the  "King's 
friends,"  out  of  which  a  new  Tory  Party  was  to  grow.  He  showed  how 
closely  the  desire  for  place  and  privileges  affected  the  fate  of  the  colonies; 
and  how  above  all,  the  stubborn  nature  of  George  III  dominated  the  situa- 
tion. Admirable,  too,  are  his  characterizations  of  the  British  leaders— of 
Charles  Townshend,  "the  most  celebrated  statesman  who  has  left  nothing 
but  errors  to  account  for  his  fame";11  or  of  Lord  North,  in  which  Ban- 
croft illustrated  one  of  his  best  qualities— the  ability  to  depict  by  com- 
parison—for North  was  born  in  the  same  year  as  George  Washington, 
and  the  contrast  was  naturally  striking. 

Bancroft  uses  this  effective  antithesis  in  portraying  the  difference  be- 
tween the  legislation  in  the  Colonies  and  that  of  Parliament.  "The  day 
on  which  Parliament  was  prorogued,  saw  the  Legislature  of  Virginia 
assembled  at  Williamsburgh.  Great  men  were  there;  some  who  were 
among  the  greatest:  Washington,  Patrick  Henry  and  for  the  first  time, 
Jefferson."12  In  the  same  way,  the  passage  of  the  Virginia  Resolutions 
of  March,  1773,  is  epitomized:  "In  this  manner,  Virginia  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  our  Union.  Massachusetts  organized  a  Province;  Virginia  promoted 
a  confederacy."  13 

Bancroft's  description  of  Daniel  Boone's  first  vision  of  Kentucky  rises 
to  lyric  heights,  which  at  first  seem  over  poetic,  until  we  realize  that  he  is 
using  Boone's  own  account  as  a  basis,  placing  himself  in  the  position  of 
the  unlettered  explorer  and  transmitting  to  his  readers  the  very  emotions 
of  the  pioneer.  This  method  may  be  dangerous  for  the  historian— the 
only  defence  in  Bancroft's  case  lies  in  its  success. 

Bancroft's  style  is  seen  perhaps  at  its  best  in  the  eloquent  opening 
chapter  of  volume  seven,  in  which  he  paints  a  picture  of  the  conditions 
in  America,  in  Britain  and  in  France  in  May,  1774.  His  grasp  of  general 
history  enables  him  to  show  how  closely  related  were  the  effects  of  the 

9  Vol.  2,  pp.  382-383.  This  and  following  references  are  to  the  10-vol.  edition. 

10  Vol.  2,  p.  10 1.  Retained  in  revision. 
1  '  Vol.  6,  pp.  1 00- 10 1. 

1  -  Vol.  6,  p.  279. 
13  Vol.  6,  p.  455. 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS  523 

struggles  for  colonial  possession  among  the  European  powers,  and  yet 
how  different  were  their  concepts  of  political  and  social  life.  As  he  reaches 
the  actual  conflict,  his  style,  at  times  a  bit  pompous,  divests  itself  of 
ornament,  and  the  battles  of  Lexington,  of  Concord  and  of  Bunker  Hill 
are  told  simply  but  effectively.  The  individual  patriots  emerge  from  the 
narrative  as  real  people— John  Parker,  Isaac  Davis,  Colonel  Prescott  and 
Joseph  Warren. 

Bancroft's  ability  to  draw  a  character  was  revealed  best,  of  course, 
when  his  subject  was  the  loftiest.  Through  the  history  runs  like  a  con- 
necting thread  his  pictures  of  Franklin's  wisdom,  foresight,  poise  and 
patience,  coming  to  vivid  life  in  his  conversations  with  Chatham  and 
Howe,  or  in  his  appearance  at  the  Privy  Council.14  Equal  in  their  unifying 
power  are  Bancroft's  descriptions  of  Washington.15  The  portrait  of  our 
first  general  of  the  armies  of  America  and  of  the  presiding  genius  of  the 
Constitutional  Convention  of  1787  leaves  almost  nothing  to  be  said,  and 
notwithstanding  all  subsequent  descriptions,  it  remains  the  standard  just 
as  Gilbert  Stuart's  portrait  stands  today  still  unchallenged.  If  Bancroft  and 
Stuart  both  idealized  Washington,  it  was  because  both  had  the  power  to 
represent  the  inner  surface  of  character. 

As  he  proceeds,  Bancroft  gives  a  remarkable  picture  of  the  way  men 
were  thinking,  and  in  volume  eight,  chapter  forty-eight,  "The  Question 
between  Britain  and  America,"  he  established  his  philosophy  of  history. 
The  historian  "must  bring  to  his  pursuit  the  freedom  of  the  unbiased 
mind"  and  "the  fond  biographer  who  constructs  the  road  to  the  monu- 
ment of  his  idol  over  the  graves  of  the  reputation  of  great  men,  will  find 
the  best  part  of  his  race  refusing  to  travel  it."  Yet  Bancroft  could 
denounce  as  well  as  eulogize:  his  analysis  of  Lord  Germain's  conduct  of 
affairs  is  keen  and  he  ties  together  the  various  strands  of  public  opinion 
until  through  them  he  fastens  upon  George  III  the  guilt  of  losing  the 
colonies. 

As  the  movement  toward  independence  grew,  Bancroft  quoted  the 
actual  words  of  the  Declaration  of  Rights  in  Virginia,  the  forerunner 
of  the  Declaration  of  Independence.  As  usual,  he  introduces  his  descrip- 
tion of  Jefferson  in  connection  with  his  creation  of  the  Declaration,  based 
upon  earlier  utterances,  it  is  true,  but  moulded  by  an  artist  in  words. 
Bancroft  proceeded,  by  choosing  high  points  in  the  actions  of  individuals 
or  nations,  to  challenge  interest  in  the  reader.  He  did  not  agree,  however, 
with  Emerson,  who  thought  "all  history  resolves  itself  very  easily  into  the 
biography  of  a  few  stout  and  earnest  persons."  16  Bancroft  knew  better, 
and  his  analysis  of  the  principles  of  the  Declaration  is  profound,  closing 

14  Vol.  6,  pp.  375,  494-499;  Vol.  7,  pp.  191,  264-265;  Vol.  9,  pp.  489-493;  Vol.  10, 
p.  558. 

10  See  especially  Vol.  7,  pp.  393-403;  History  of  the  Constitution,  Vol.  2,  pp.  360-364. 
16  "Self  Reliance." 


524  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

with  the  passage:  "The  astonished  nations  as  they  read  that  all  men  are 
created  equal,  started  out  of  their  lethargy,  like  those  who  have  been 
exiles  from  childhood,  when  they  suddenly  hear  the  dimly  remembered 
accents  of  their  mother  tongue."  17 

One  of  the  reasons  why  Bancroft's  histories  ran  through  many  editions 
lav  in  the  vigorous  accounts  of  conflicts.  We  approach  the  battles  of 
Long  Island,  of  Trenton  and  of  Yorktown,  although  we  know  the  facts, 
with  the  certainty  that  he  will  tell  the  story  with  that  sense  of  the  dram- 
atic that  never  left  him. 

In  his  last  volume  Bancroft  continued  his  successful  effort  to  show  how 
the  European  political  scene  affected  the  Revolution,  how  the  declarations 
of  war  against  England  by  France  and  Spain  in  1779  made  English  states- 
men more  willing  to  meet  the  colonial  demands,  had  the  king  agreed  with 
them.  There  is  an  admirable  account  of  the  peace  negotiations,  depending 
so  largely  upon  the  friendship  of  Franklin  and  Lord  Shelburne,  and  the 
tenth  volume  closes. 

Bancroft  was  not  merely  a  recorder  of  events;  he  believed  the  historian 
had  the  right  to  an  opinion  and  his  interpretations  justified  him.  For  ex- 
ample, he  explains  Hamilton's  preference  for  a  strong  central  government 
by  the  fact  that  he  was  not  born  in  any  state  and  had  no  loyalty  to  one 
section.  Bancroft  has  been  criticized  for  being  too  favorable  to  democracy, 
but  his  sincere  convictions  are  given  in  that  passage  beginning:  "The 
many  are  more  sagacious,  more  disinterested,  more  courageous,  than  the 
few . . .  "  18  He  believed  that  he  was  in  agreement  with  the  future,  and 
he  has  been  justified  in  that  belief.  He  was  treating  a  great  subject,  and 
he  dared  to  be  eloquent.  If  at  times  his  writing  seems  to  be  too  much  in 
the  nature  of  a  speech,  he  wrote  during  the  great  days  of  American 
oratory,  of  Webster,  of  Clay,  of  Lincoln  and  of  Douglas.  As  volume 
after  volume  appeared,  tracing  the  growth  of  liberty  and  of  union  among 
the  Colonies  and  the  States,  Bancroft  made  his  own  great  contribution  to 
the  stability  of  his  country. 

In  1855  he  gathered  his  orations  and  essays,  some  of  which  have  already 
been  discussed,  into  a  volume,  Literary  and  Historical  Miscellanies.  His 
account  of  the  rise  of  the  Russian  Empire  can  still  be  read  with  interest, 
and  his  address  before  the  New  York  Historical  Society  in  1854  on  The 
Necessity,  the  Reality,  and  the  Promise  of  the  Progress  of  the  Human 
Race,  became  a  restatement  of  his  belief  in  democracy,  expressed  earlier, 
through  a  review  of  the  events  of  the  preceding  half-century. 

Bancroft  voted  for  Douglas  in  i860  but  supported  Lincoln  during  the 
Civil  War.19  His  request  for  a  copy  of  the  Gettysburg  Address  led  to  a 
revision  by  Lincoln  and  this  version  has  become  standard.  He  voted  for 

i"  Vol.  8,  p.  473. 

18  Vol.  8,  p.  248. 

19  Cf.  his  remarkable  letter  to  Dean  Milman,  Aug.  5,  1861,  Howe,  Life,  Vol.  2,  pp. 

I33-H3- 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS  525 

Lincoln  in  1864  and  delivered  eulogies  upon  him  at  a  mass  meeting  in  New 
York  after  his  death,  and  before  Congress,  February  12,  1866.  At  Presi- 
dent Johnson's  request  he  wrote  his  first  message  to  Congress,  incorporat- 
ing Johnson's  own  ideas,  but  giving  them  a  finished  form;  a  fact  that  was 
kept  secret  for  forty  years.  In  1867  he  was  appointed  Minister  Plenipo- 
tentiary to  the  court  of  Prussia,  and  upon  the  consolidation  of  Germany, 
he  became  Minister  to  the  German  Empire.  His  sympathies  during  the 
Franco-German  War  were  so  decidedly  with  Germany  that  his  utterances 
now  seem  not  only  unfounded  but  almost  ludicrous.  In  1874  he  resigned, 
the  same  year  in  which  his  History  in  its  first  form  was  completed.  In 
addition  to  his  revision  of  these  volumes,  he  published  in  1889  his  History 
of  the  Formation  of  the  Federal  Constitution,  which  was  a  distinct  con- 
tribution to  history,  but  from  its  very  nature  could  hardly  be  as  truly  a 
piece  of  literature.  Yet  Bancroft's  approach  through  his  account  of  the 
forces  which  brought  about  the  calling  of  the  Constitutional  Convention, 
revealed  again  his  power  of  organization.  The  first  chapter  of  Book  2, 
"How  the  Land  Received  the  Legacy  of  Washington";  the  first  chapter 
of  Book  5,  the  analysis  of  the  philosophy  of  the  Constitution;  and  the 
close  of  the  second  volume,  with  its  comparison  of  the  state  of  Europe 
and  the  condition  of  the  United  States  at  the  time  of  the  inauguration  of 
the  first  president,  are  written  with  Bancroft's  earlier  eloquence.  Another 
revision  of  the  History  in  1886,  was  Bancroft's  last  important  task.  He 
died  January  17,  1891,  as  old  as  the  century. 


Of  a  similar  New  England  tradition,  William  Hickling  Prescott  was 
born  in  Salem,  Massachusetts,  on  May  4,  1796.  His  parents  were  cultivated 
people  and  his  grandfather  had  led  the  colonial  troops  at  Bunker  Hill. 
His  father,  a  successful  lawyer,  removed  to  Boston  in  1808  and  Prescott 
entered  Harvard  College  in  August,  181 1.  Here  the  sight  of  his  left  eye 
was  totally  destroyed  by  a  blow  from  a  hard  piece  of  bread  thrown  in 
a  college  fracas.  It  changed  his  whole  life,  especially  since  his  other  eye 
became  affected  by  acute  rheumatism,  which  at  times  rendered  him  com- 
pletely blind. 

With  a  courage  that  is  almost  without  parallel  in  the  history  of 
literature,  he  planned  his  life  so  as  to  undertake  what  proved  to  be  a 
great  accomplishment.  George  Ticknor  tells  in  his  biography  of  Prescott 
how  his  cheerful  disposition  and  unfaltering  will  were  unchanged 
through  the  fluctuating  health  and  suffering  that  limited  his  opportunities 
both  in  his  travels  in  Europe  and  his  life  at  home.  He  was  happily  married 
and  his  circumstances  made  it  possible  to  secure  aids  in  the  preparation 
for  his  literary  work.  His  writing  was  done  by  the  nectograph,  a  device 
used  by  the  blind  in  which  the  hand  of  the  writer  was  guided  by  parallel 
wires.  But  the  histories  could  not  have  been  written  had  not  Prescott 


526  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

trained  his  mind  to  retain  sixty  pages  of  his  own  composition  for  several 
days,  considering  and  improving  them  before  he  wrote  them  down. 

he  had  always  been  a  reader  of  English  literature  but  he  began  a 
systematic  course  of  study,  especially  in  the  essay,  devoting  the  one  hour 
a  day  he  was  permitted  to  read  to  this  form.  His  study  resulted  ultimately 
in  his  article  on  "Essay  Writing"  in  The  North  American  Review20 
which,  curiously  enough,  was  ostensibly  a  review  of  the  Club  Room,  a 
short-lived  periodical  of  which  he  was  the  moving  spirit.  He  mastered 
Italian  and  French  sufficiently  to  use  them  in  his  work  but  German  was 
forbidden  to  him.  George  Ticknor,  who  was  conducting  courses  on 
Spanish  literature  at  Harvard,  read  his  lectures  to  his  friend  to  help  him 
through  some  of  his  dark  hours  and  Prescott  in  1824  began  his  study  of 
Spanish  civilization  which  ended  only  with  his  life. 

Prescott  embarked  on  his  historical  work  with  some  hesitation,  waver- 
ing at  first  between  an  account  of  the  revolution  that  converted  Rome 
into  a  monarchy  and  the  history  of  the  reign  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella 
of  Spain.  It  was,  as  he  later  said,  a  fortunate  selection,  for  foreign  historians 
had  not  been  attracted  to  that  period.  As  Ticknor  remarked  in  his  preface 
to  his  biography  of  Prescott,  the  reign  in  which  the  existence  of  America 
was  first  revealed  was  eminently  suitable  for  an  American.  By  1826  he 
had  planned  his  outlines  of  the  History  of  the  Reign  of  Ferdinand  and 
Isabella,  the  Catholic,  training  himself  to  absorb  the  many  general  and 
specific  sources  which  were  read  to  him.  As  given  in  the  prefaces  to 
his  books  and  in  Ticknor's  biography,  they  justify  the  latter's  comment 
that  it  is  not  easy  to  see  how  he  could  have  been  more  thorough  if  he 
had  enjoyed  the  use  of  his  sight.  From  the  beginning  he  secured  original 
sources  from  Spain.  In  October,  1829,  he  began  actual  composition,  and 
ten  years  after  the  beginning  of  his  study  of  the  material  he  published 
the  three  volumes,  late  in  1837.  The  success  of  the  work  was  immediate, 
and  the  reviews,  especially  those  by  Bancroft  in  the  Democratic  Review, 
May,  1838;  by  Pascual  de  Gayangos  in  the  Edinburgh  Review,  January, 
1839;  and  the  five  articles  by  Count  Adolphe  de  Circourt  in  the  Bib- 
lioteque  Universale  de  Geneve,  July,  1838,  to  January,  1840,  established 
Prescott's  reputation.  His  choice  of  a  subject  was  natural  in  a  period  when 
romance  was  in  the  air,  and  to  the  American  mind,  Spain  was  the  land 
of  romance.  Irving  had  led  the  way,  and  not  only  the  historians  but  also 
the  novelists,  dramatists  and  poets  followed  him. 

Ferdinand  and  Isabella  is  a  remarkable  story  of  a  nation  which  amounted 
in  Castile  in  1492  to  only  6,500,000  people,  but  which  first  won  back  the 
acres  of  their  ancestors  and  then  carried  the  name  and  power  of  Spain 
over  the  world.  Prescott  does  justice  to  the  lofty  chivalric  nature  of  the 
Spaniard  which  made  this  great  adventure  possible.  The  quality  of 
Prescott's  achievement  is  best  revealed  in  his  remarkable  analysis  of  the 
20  Vol.  14  (1822;,  pp.  3 19-35°- 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS  527 

characters  of  Isabella  and  Ferdinand,  in  his  general  picture  of  European 
conditions  which  made  Spain  seek  expansion  to  the  west,  and  in  his 
ability  to  state  clearly  the  fundamental  policies  of  a  national  government. 
He  recognized  the  great  importance  of  the  reduction  of  the  power  of  the 
nobles  by  the  two  sovereigns,  and  the  dependence  of  the  rulers  upon  the 
commons  as  contributing  to  that  unity  which  was  a  necessary  condition 
upon  which  the  strides  of  Spain  to  greatness  were  secured.  Prescott 
knew  that  "the  dreary  annals  of  blood  and  battle"  however  many  he 
describes,  are  not  the  sole  factors  in  Spain's  development  and  he  gives  a 
definite  space  to  the  rise  of  Spanish  literature,  especially  the  popular 
ballads.  Spanish  scholarship,  too,  is  not  forgotten  and  he  pays  adequate 
tribute  to  the  great  Polyglot  Translation  of  the  Bible  under  Cardinal 
Ximenes,  completed  in  15 17,  and  to  the  University  of  Alcala,  which  he 
founded.  As  an  American  Prescott  naturally  emphasized  the  democratic 
elements  in  Spanish  history,  called  attention  to  the  popular  representation 
in  the  Cortes  in  Castile  in  11 69,  nearly  a  century  before  it  appeared  in 
the  English  Parliament,  and  the  fact  that  Isabella  based  her  claim  to  the 
throne  on  the  approval  of  the  Cortes  rather  than  of  the  nobles.  Consider- 
ing his  New  England  blood,  Prescott  was  fairer  than  might  have  been 
expected  in  his  treatment  of  the  Church  and  the  Inquisition. 

In  1 845  Prescott  collected  some  of  his  critical  essays  in  a  volume  which 
included  his  treatment  of  "Italian  Narrative  Poetry,"  a  biographical  and 
critical  sketch  of  Charles  Brockden  Brown,  and  reviews  of  Irving's  Con- 
quest of  Granada  and  of  Bancroft's  third  volume.  Not  all  of  his  critical 
essays  were  included,  but  they  can  best  be  treated  briefly  here  as  a  unit. 
Prescott's  criticism  is  an  example  of  that  kind  of  essay  which  takes  the 
book  in  question  as  a  starting  place  to  discuss  a  general  subject.  There  is 
much  to  be  said  for  this  essay-like  form,  where  the  critic  is  informed 
and  able.  Among  the  most  important  of  these  essays  are  the  discussions  of 
novel  writing  and  of  the  essay  as  a  form.  His  illustrations  here  are  mainly 
from  English  literature,  but  his  review  of  Irving's  Conquest  of  Granada 
paid  a  tribute  to  Irving's  "fine  perception  of  moral  and  natural  beauty, 
his  power  of  discriminating  the  most  delicate  shades  of  character  and  of 
unfolding  a  series  of  events  so  as  to  maintain  a  lively  interest  in  the 
reader."  Prescott's  tribute  to  Bancroft  is  also  wholehearted  and  discrim- 
inating. In  Prescott's  "English  Literature  in  the  Nineteenth  Century," 
published  in  the  North  American  Review  in  1832,  he  answered  two 
critical  cliches  which  have  nevertheless  sounded  still  after  a  century: 
"Cooper  is  no  more  an  imitator  of  Scott  than  Milton  is  of  Shakespeare 
because  they  both  wrote  in  verse"  and  "Mr.  Irving  may  be  regarded  in 
every  respect  as  an  original  writer." 

Prescott  did  not  arrive  at  his  distinguished  style  by  accident.  He  in- 
vestigated the  characteristics  of  those  English  writers  who  have  been  noted 
stylists,  from  Roger  Ascham  down,  but  determined  that  his  own  writing 


528  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

should  be  independent  of  any  model.  But  the  severe  self-discipline  which 
rewrote  many  chapters  shows  in  the  ease  with  which  his  work  may  be 
read.  His  very  optical  handicap  resulted  in  the  thorough  mastering  not 
onlv  of  his  material  but  also  of  the  manner  in  which  it  should  be  treated. 
Since  the  form  lay  so  long  in  his  own  mind,  Prescott's  writings  have  a 
personal  quality  which  a  scientific  historian  would  deplore,  but  which 
has  helped  make  his  histories  permanent  literature. 

A  History  of  the  Conquest  of  Mexico,  in  three  volumes,  appeared  in 
1843  and  A  History  of  the  Conquest  of  Peru,  in  two  volumes,  in  1847. 
They  were  a  natural  continuation  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella.  Prescott 
established  well  in  both  cases  the  reason  for  the  conquest  of  vast  numbers 
of  the  natives  by  a  handful  of  the  conquerors.  He  prefaces  his  accounts 
by  an  analysis  of  the  natures  of  the  Aztecs  and  Peruvians,  the  conflicts 
between  the  elements  out  of  which  both  the  nations  were  composed  and 
which  made  the  times  ripe  for  invasion.  His  ability  was  remarkable  for 
the  summing  up  of  racial  tendencies  and  movements  extending  over  long 
periods  of  time.  His  conclusion  was  that  the  failure  of  the  Aztecs  was 
not  to  be  regretted,  because  of  their  cannibalism  and  barbarity  and  the 
lack  of  any  progressive  civilization,  what  they  had  being  due  probably 
to  an  earlier  race  which  they  had  conquered.  He  shows,  too,  that  there 
was  not  unusual  cruelty  on  the  Spaniard's  part— "not  greater  than  that 
inflicted  by  the  most  polished  nations,  not  merely  of  ancient  times  but 
of  our  own."  21 

In  Peru,  the  recent  assumption  of  the  crown  by  an  illegitimate  son  of 
the  former  Inca,  the  loss  of  his  leadership  which  paralyzed  effort  on  the 
part  of  his  people,  and  their  superstition  were  contributing  causes.  In 
Peru,  everything  was  regulated  by  the  Inca.  "There  was  no  want,  no 
famine  and  no  hope."  But  Prescott  brings  out  more  forcibly  the  greatest 
reason,  the  indomitable  spirit  of  the  Spaniard,  the  abilities  of  Cortez  and 
of  Pizarro  as  leaders,  the  mingling  of  cupidity  and  the  love  of  adventure 
with  the  crusading  spirit  of  a  Christian  nation.  Without  any  great  sym- 
pathy with  Catholicism,  his  clear-sightedness  as  an  historian  pays  tribute 
to  a  faith  to  which  Cortez  and  Pizarro  appealed  at  moments  of  supreme 
danger  and  which  never  failed  to  bring  a  response  from  the  soldiers  that 
spelled  victory. 

Prescott's  contrast  between  the  motives  and  actions  of  the  English 
settlers  in  North  America  and  the  Spaniards  in  the  South,  naturally 
emphasizes  the  love  of  independence  in  the  first  and  the  search  for 
adventure  and  gold  in  the  latter.  But  he  also  recognized  the  great  interest 
taken  by  the  Spanish  in  Christianising  the  natives,  while  the  English  made 
comparatively  little  attempt  to  do  so. 

Prescott  knew  when  to  introduce  a  dramatic  scene.  In  the  extremity 
of  Pizarro's  discouragement,  he  drew  with  his  sword  a  line  on  the  sand 

21  History  of  the  Conquest  of  Mexico  (1851),  Vol.  3,  pp.  218-219. 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS  529 

from  east  to  west  and  called  on  his  followers  to  choose  between  Peru 
with  its  riches  and  a  return  to  Panama  and  its  poverty— "Choose  each 
man,  what  best  becomes  a  brave  Castilian,"  he  said,  "For  my  part  I  go  to 
the  South."  Centuries  later  his  example  was  followed  in  the  Alamo. 

Out  of  these  volumes  rise  many  a  character  portrayed  by  Prescott  with 
sympathy  and  eloquent  analysis.  From  the  Conquest  of  Mexico,  Hernando 
Cortez,  Montezuma  and  Guatemozin;  from  the  Conquest  of  Peru,  both 
Francesco  and  Gonzalo  Pizarro,  both  Almagros,  and  that  of  the  president, 
Pedro  de  la  Gasca,  sent  by  Emperor  Charles  V  to  bring  peace  to  the 
chaotic  condition  of  Peru.  Among  all  the  glamor  of  battles,  the  figure  of 
this  plainly  dressed  ecclesiastic  who  conquered  all  factions  by  the  sheer 
force  of  character  remains  one  of  Prescott's  signal  achievements. 

In  1855  the  first  two  volumes  of  The  History  of  the  Reign  of  Philip 
the  Second  were  published.  Prescott  did  not  live  to  complete  the  work. 
On  February  4,  1858,  he  suffered  an  apoplectic  stroke  and  while  he  recov- 
ered sufficiently  to  prepare  the  third  volume  for  the  press,  the  fourth  was 
never  written.  Prescott  died  on  January  28,  1859,  of  a  second  stroke. 
The  third  volume  extends  to  1577  and  while  the  work  remains  a  fragment, 
it  contains  some  of  his  best  writing.  One  of  his  finest  portrayals  of  action 
is  the  description  of  the  Battle  of  Lepanto,  in  which  Don  John  of  Austria 
who,  though  the  illegitimate  son  of  Charles  V,  was  the  idol  of  Spain, 
defeated  the  Turkish  fleet  in  1575.  In  the  picture  of  this  naval  engagement 
in  which  the  combined  naval  power  of  Spain,  Venice  and  the  Pope 
crushed  the  Turks,  Prescott  rivalled  Cooper,  and  he  followed  it  with  a 
comprehensive  view  of  the  political  importance  of  the  victory  which 
marked  the  decline  of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Prescott's  summation  of  the 
character  of  Philip  II  is  excellent  and  he  brings  out  the  king's  dexterous 
handling  of  both  nobles  and  commons,  by  which  he  kept  the  absolute 
power.  Yet  Prescott  pays  tribute  to  Philip's  willingness  to  receive  the 
applications  of  the  Cortes  or  legislature,  even  if  he  did  not  always  follow 
them,  and  preserve  "that  love  of  independence  which  was  their  birth- 
right, inherited  from  their  ancestors,  and  thus  maintained  in  their  bosoms 
those  lofty  sentiments  which  were  the  characteristics  of  the  humbler 
classes  of  the  Spaniards  beyond  those  of  any  nation  in  Christiandom."  22 
Prescott  also  pays  tribute  to  Philip's  love  of  the  arts  of  painting  and 
architecture,  and  his  deep  interest  in  the  construction  of  the  famous  Esco- 
rial,  "at  once  a  convent,  a  palace  and  a  tomb";  and  the  historian's  contrast 
of  its  former  glories  and  its  later  desolation  forms  a  striking  picture.  The 
contest  between  Philip  II  and  the  provinces  of  the  Netherlands  occupies 
a  place  in  Prescott's  work,  but  it  is  treated  in  its  proper  relation  to  world 
history  of  that  time  and  Prescott  looks  upon  the  struggle  with  a  calmer 
eye  than  Motley. 

Prescott's  histories  have  not  only  continued  to  hold  their  high  place  in 

22  Philip  11  (Boston,  1S58),  Vol.  3,  p.  439.  References  are  to  this  edition. 


53o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  estimation  of  American  critics  but  their  work  has  been  recognized  by 
Spanish  scholars  even  in  our  own  time.  M.  Romera-Navarro,  in  his 
chapter  on  Prescott  in  El  Hispanismo  en  Norte  America  (1917),23  sums 
up  Prescott's  achievement: 

Although  excelled  by  other  historians  in  some  qualities,  he  is  among  modern 
writers,  perhaps  the  one  who  possessed  the  most  varied  gifts;  love  of  truth, 
fairness,  a  spirit  of  untiring  investigation,  fidelity  in  narration,  imagination 
without  lyricisms,  a  sober  and  picturesque  style  and  a  conscientiousness  that 
always  led  him  to  make  known  to  us  the  sources  of  his  information. 

M.  Romera-Navarro  pays  especial  tribute  to  Prescott's  fairness  in  the 
treatment  of  Philip  II,  and  his  historical  acumen  in  rejecting  the  biased 
accounts  of  Antonio  Perez,  and  contrasts  him  with  Motley  "who  copied 
from  ancient  authors  the  black  legend,"  now  abandoned  by  the  best 
Spanish  historians,  a  long  list  of  whom  are  quoted  in  support  of  Prescott's 
position.  Prescott's  histories  were  all  translated  into  Spanish,  beginning 
with  Ferdinand  and  Isabella  in  1843  anc^  were  well  received.  They  were 
also  translated  into  French,  Italian,  German  and  Dutch.24 


Since  they  wrote  upon  similar  periods  in  history,  the  work  of  Prescott 
and  of  John  Lothrop  Motley  (1814-77)  affords  an  unusual  opportunity 
for  comparison,  which  rapidly  becomes  a  contrast.  Born  in  Dorchester, 
Massachusetts,  Motley  came  at  school  under  the  tutelage  of  Bancroft. 
Graduating  from  Harvard  in  183 1,  he  spent  two  years  in  study  at 
Gottingen  and  Berlin  and  in  European  travel.  His  two  novels,  Mortotfs 
Hope:  or,  the  Memories  of  a  Provincial  (1839)  and  Merry  mount:  A 
Romance  of  the  Massachusetts  Colony  (1849),  while  not  very  important, 
hardly  deserve  the  complete  obscurity  into  which  they  have  fallen.  The 
first  represents  quite  well  the  life  of  a  German  university,  while  the  latter 
is  hurt  by  Motley's  evident  prejudice  in  favor  of  the  Puritans.  That  he 
wrote  the  novels  at  all,  however,  is  of  significance  when  we  come  to 
judge  him  as  an  historian.  When  he  began  to  write  his  Rise  of  the  Dutch 
Republic  he  was  at  first  discouraged  by  the  news  that  Prescott  was 
planning  his  Philip  II,  but  Prescott  encouraged  him  to  go  on.  After  several 
years  devoted  to  original  research  here  and  abroad,  he  published  the 
three  volumes  in  1855  at  his  own  expense,  since  no  publisher  was  willing 
to  risk  his  capital  upon  such  a  lengthy  work  on  what  seemed  to  him  to 
be  a  subject  of  remote  interest.  A  sale  of  fifteen  thousand  sets  in  two 
years,  however,  encouraged  Motley  to  continue  his  subject  in  The  History 

2:!  Read  most  conveniently  in  the  translation,  "William  Hickling  Prescott,  the 
Historian  of  Spain,1'  Inter-America  (Feb.  1918),  pp.  169-175. 

21  See  Ticknor,  Life,  for  a  list,  pp.  470-471.  For  criticisms  De  L.  Ferguson,  American 
Literature  in  Spain,  Chapter  7. 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS  531 

of  the  United  Netherlands  of  which  two  volumes  appeared  in  i860  and 
two  in  1867. 

Motley's  validity  as  an  authority  was  challenged  in  his  own  day, 
especially  by  Belgian  scholars,  and  has  not  withstood  the  test  of  time. 
He  was  an  advocate,  while  Bancroft  and  Prescott  were  historians.  The 
challenge  has  been  usually  not  to  his  facts  but  to  his  interpretation  of 
them.  One  can  accept  his  facts  and  by  simply  changing  his  adjectives 
can  paint  a  different  picture  of  his  hero,  William  of  Orange,  or  his  villain, 
Philip  II  of  Spain.  He  attributes  motives  to  his  characters  of  which  neither 
he  nor  his  authorities  could  possibly  know.  William  becomes  in  his  hands 
a  demi-god,  and  Motley's  elaborate  defence  of  his  duplicity  in  his  second 
marriage  contrasts  with  Prescott's  calm  but  stinging  arraignment  of  a 
statesman  who  based  his  policies  on  Machiavelli.25  Indeed  the  best  way 
to  estimate  Motley's  failings  is  to  constantly  contrast  his  judgments  with 
those  of  Prescott.  The  character  of  Philip  II  is  another  good  case  in 
point.26  As  one  of  the  foremost  modern  historians  well  said:  "The 
work  shows  more  learning  than  insight  and  more  enthusiasm  than 
sobriety."  27 

Motley  carries  his  partisanship  to  lengths  which  make  a  modern  reader 
gasp.  For  example  he  does  not  hesitate  to  describe  the  vandalism  of  the 
mob  which  destroyed  the  churches,  even  the  great  Cathedral  of  Antwerp, 
burned  the  irreplaceable  manuscripts,  trampled  under  foot  the  statues  of 
Christ  on  the  Cross,  perpetrated  vulgarities  in  the  treatment  of  the  images 
of  the  Mother  of  God,  and  in  a  few  days  destroyed  what  the  faith  of 
centuries  had  built  into  the  lofty  monuments  of  Gothic  art,  but  he  pre- 
faces this  description  with  the  apology— "but  it  is  impossible  to  censure 
very  severely  the  spirit  which  prompted  the  brutal,  but  not  ferocious, 
deed."  28  Here  again  the  two  historians  are  at  variance,  this  time  concern- 
ing the  facts.  Motley  states  that  "not  a  farthing's  value  of  the  immense 
amount  of  property  destroyed  was  appropriated."  29  According  to  Pres- 
cott, "the  quantity  of  gold  and  silver  plate  purloined  from  the  churches 
and  convents  was  immense,"  30  and  he  gives  his  authorities,  while  Motley 
gives  none. 

Even  more  serious  is  Motley's  incapacity  to  understand  the  spirit  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  To  him  any  noble,  like  Egmont,  who  was  loyal  to 
his  sovereign,  was  an  enemy  to  the  cause  of  liberty.  He  records  the  offer 
of  the  Dutch  to  make  the  Duke  of  Anjou,  or  even  Elizabeth  of  England, 

25  Cf.  Motley,  Rise  of  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  1,  pp.  297-309  with  Prescott,  Philip  11, 
Vol.  1,  pp.  486-487. 

26  Cf.  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  1,  pp.  144-146  with  Prescott's  summary  in  Philip  II, 
Vol.  3,  pp.  395-440. 

27  Edward  P.  Cheyney  in  DAB. 

28  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  1,  p.  552. 

29  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  1,  p.  564. 

30  Philip  11,  Vol.  2,  p.  64. 


532  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

their  sovereign,  in  order  to  have  the  sanction  of  royal  blood,  yet  does 
not  draw  the  inevitable  conclusion. 

Motley's  treatment  of  William  illustrates  another  of  his  besettino;  sins, 
his  constant  use  of  superlatives.  After  his  assassination,  "Never  was  a  more 
extensive,  unaffected  and  legitimate  sorrow  felt  at  the  death  of  any  human 
being."  31  "No  man,  even  Washington,  has  ever  been  inspired  by  a  purer 
patriotism."  32  Yet  William  advised  the  return  of  the  Dutch  to  the  French 
domination  under  Anjou,  a  refuge  Washington  would  have  scorned.  The 
Duke  of  Alva  "possessed  no  virtues."  33  Philip  "was  capable  of  any 
crime."  34  The  real  historian  does  not  indulge  in  such  sweeping  state- 
ments. 

The  History  of  the  United  Netherlands  is  not  as  interesting  as  its 
predecessor.  As  Motley  himself  says:  "The  picture  of  these  kings,  prime 
ministers,  and  ambassadors,  thus  plotting  treason,  stratagem  and  massacre, 
is  a  dark  and  dreary  one."  35  Motley  is  not  at  home  here.  From  the  point 
of  view  of  his  literary  artistry,  he  is  seen  at  a  higher  level  in  the  account 
of  battles,  like  that  in  which  Don  John  of  Austria  defeated  the  Nether- 
landers,  or  in  panegyrics,  when  he  keeps  to  facts.  Then  his  style  be- 
comes at  times  brilliant. 

Motley's  volumes  on  the  United  Netherlands  were  interrupted  by  his 
acceptance  of  the  Austrian  Mission  and  later  by  his  appointment  to  the 
Court  of  St.  James,  from  both  of  which  he  was  recalled  through  the 
complications  of  American  politics.  The  Life  and  Death  of  John  of 
Barneveld  (1874),  in  two  volumes,  continued  the  subject  of  the  Nether- 
lands. Motley  died  in  England  from  a  stroke  of  apoplexy,  May  29,  1877. 

The  American  historians  spared  no  effort  to  obtain  the  correct  facts, 
but  they  steered  the  middle  course  between  the  brilliant  but  prejudiced 
histories  of  Macaulay  and  Carlyle  and  the  dispassionate  but  less  inter- 
esting histories  of  Freeman  and  Ranke.  They  preceded  the  work  of  Green, 
who  belongs  to  their  school  of  writing  and  they  may  have  been  in  part 
his  inspiration. 

While  Irving's  chronicles,  extending  over  a  thousand  years,  meet 
squarely  the  test  of  literary  history,  the  glowing  picture  of  men  and  na- 
tions, yet  to  Americans,  Bancroft,  with  his  picture  of  the  origin  and 
establishment  of  the  nation  is  easily  the  most  significant  of  the  historians 
treated  in  this  chapter.  Through  Prescott's  accounts  of  the  conquests  of 
lands  which  are  becoming  more  and  more  closely  connected  with  our 
own,  our  knowledge  of  the  other  Americas  can  be  enriched.  Motley's 
subjects  seem  more  remote  to  our  civilization  and  our  own  contemporary 
knowledge  of  the  relative  characteristics  of  Belgium  and  Holland  hardly 

31  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  3,  p.  614. 

32  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  3,  p.  625. 

33  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  2,  p.  207. 

34  Dutch  Republic,  Vol.  2,  p.  233. 

35  The  History  of  the  United  Netherlands,  Vol.  1,  p.  129. 


THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS  533 

coincides  with  Motley's  overwhelming  preference  for  the  Germanic  as 
opposed  to  the  Celtic  races.  Bancroft,  Prescott  and  Motley  all  wrote 
literature,  at  times  of  a  high  quality,  but  the  acid  test  of  quotability  places 
them  clearly  in  the  above  listed  order  as  literary  artists. 

Preceding  or  contemporaneous  with  these  historians  were  the  collectors 
and  editors  of  the  sources  of  American  history.  These  rarely  wrote 
literature  but  they  sometimes  made  literature  possible.  Jared  Sparks 
(1789- 1 866),  began  with  his  Writings  of  George  Washington  ..  .with  a 
Life  of  the  Author,  a  twelve-volume  compilation,  which,  together  with 
his  Works  of  Benjamin  Franklin  in  ten  volumes  (1836-40)  including  a 
biography  of  Franklin,  and  his  Library  of  American  Biography  in  twenty- 
five  volumes  (1834-38  and  1844-47),  made  up  his  main  contribution.  Un- 
fortunately Sparks  had  seen  fit  to  "improve"  the  letters  of  Washington 
and  his  scholarship  suffered  a  partial  eclipse. 


Chapter  28 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS 


While  our  poetry,  fiction,  drama  and  political  literature  were  develop- 
ing, at  the  same  time,  in  the  directions  of  union  and  of  universality,  the 
kindred  arts  of  painting  and  sculpture,  architecture  and  music  were  pro- 
gressing more  slowly,  in  some  ways  paralleling  the  literary  arts  and,  in 
others,  deviating  from  them.  One  art  in  its  great  moment  will  inevitably 
exert  influence  upon  the  others. 

Both  sculpture  and  portrait  painting,  including  miniatures  and  pastels, 
are  patrician  arts.  The  desire  to  preserve  our  likenesses  for  posterity,  or 
to  haye  the  portraits  of  those  we  love  preserved,  is  a  very  human  trait 
but  it  is  individual  rather  than  democratic.  In  its  natural  expansion,  it  leads 
painters  to  preserve  the  likenesses  of  our  great  men  and  women,  and  the 
records  of  our  history,  especially  in  its  heroic  phases.  The  American 
scene  may  be  a  background  for  these  personal  and  historic  events,  but  it 
may  also  serve  a  more  democratic  impulse  in  genre  painting,  in  which 
the  life  of  everyday  is  represented. 

These  artistic  impulses  have  their  parallels  in  literature.  They  lead  to 
biographies  of  great  men,  to  autobiographies  of  those  whose  lives  have 
been  associated  with  their  nation's  history,  to  personal  poems  celebrating 
our  statesmen  and  soldiers,  to  more  democratic  celebrations  of  the  simpler 
life,  and  to  the  great  vogue  of  romances  based  on  American  history. 

There  is  a  likeness  between  our  painting  and  our  literature  in  that 
Irving,  Cooper,  Ticknor,  Longfellow,  Emerson,  Bancroft,  and  Lowell 
went  abroad  to  broaden  their  horizons  through  observation  of  the  Euro- 
pean lands  and  literature,  and  in  some  cases  made  penetrating  studies  of 
their  literary  methods.  When  they  returned  they  wrote  about  the  Ameri- 
can character  with  a  background  which  made  their  work  more  universal, 
while  the  painters,  Allston,  Stuart,  Vanderlyn,  both  C.  W.  and  Rem- 
brandt Peale,  S.  F.  B.  Morse  and  Thomas  Sully  and  the  sculptors,  Craw- 
ford, Story  and  Greenough  also  went  abroad  to  broaden  their  knowledge 
and  techniques,  through  which  their  art  became  more  universal.  In  both 

534 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  535 

the  literary  and  the  plastic  arts,  however,  there  has  been  an  unfortunate 
tendency  to  emphasize  the  "local"  in  American  art  as  of  supreme  sig- 
nificance. It  is  naturally  important,  but  the  universal  is  still  more  signifi- 
cant. Confusion  between  international  art  and  universal  art  has  been 
partly  responsible  for  this  critical  error.  International  literature  and  art 
are  often  mixtures  without  fusion,  but  the  universal  rises  from  the  roots 
of  individual  experience  and  has  an  appeal  to  the  individual  experience 
everywhere. 

Just  as  the  poetry  of  Poe,  Longfellow  and  Emerson,  the  prose  of 
Irving  and  Cooper,  are  understood  in  Europe  and  Asia,  so  the  painting  of 
Stuart  and  Allston,  the  sculpture  of  Crawford  and  Story,  the  music 
of  Foster,  the  architecture  of  Jefferson,  may  reveal  their  inner  meaning 
to  any  race  and  period.  It  is  partly  because  the  better  artists  in  words, 
in  color,  in  form  and  in  tone  dared  to  idealize  their  subjects  that  they 
reached  the  same  shining  level  to  the  understanding  eye  and  heart.  It  is 
not  because  they  distorted  life,  but  because  they  could  throw  a  glamor 
about  reality  that  they  have  lasted,  to  carry  to  this  day  a  much  needed 
message  of  truth  and  beauty. 

Since  Benjamin  West  and  John  Singleton  Copley  left  this  country  and 
remained  in  England,  our  painting  may  be  said  to  begin  in  the  national 
period  with  portrait  painters  like  Charles  Willson  Peale  (1 741- 1827), 
born  in  Maryland,  but  living  for  the  most  part  in  Philadelphia.  Peale,  it 
is  true,  visited  London  between  February,  1767  and  March,  1769  and 
shared  with  Dunlap,  Stuart,  Allston  and  Sully  the  influence  of  West. 
Peale  represented  a  clear,  if  a  bit  hard,  type  of  portraiture,  realistic  in 
tendency. 

While  Peale  in  his  earlier  portraits  gave  us  the  only  representations 
of  Washington  in  the  Colonial  and  Revolutionary  periods,  his  most  im- 
portant work  was  done  after  the  Revolution.  His  portraits  of  Washing- 
ton in  1787  *  and  1795  2  and  of  Franklin  about  1787,3  present  real  people. 
He  could  impart,  too,  a  dramatic  quality  as  in  his  striking  treatment  of 
General  Arnaud  of  the  French  Army,  in  1784.4  Peale's  portrait  of  "Billy 
Lee,"  5  Washington's  favorite  Negro  servant,  has  certain  social  implica- 
tions in  its  very  existence,  as  well  as  in  its  reality.  Peale  continued  to 
paint  the  public  men  of  his  time;  his  portraits  of  Henry  Clay  and  John 
Quincy  Adams  convey  the  same  vivid  sense  of  life  revealed  in  his  early 
paintings. 

Peale  was  an  American  in  every  sense.  Not  only  did  he  serve  as  a 
captain  of  volunteers  in  the  Revolution,  but  he  shared  with  William 
Dunlap  an  important  role  in  the  encouragement  of  the  arts  of  design, 

1  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

2  New  York  Historical  Society. 

3  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

4  Pennsylvania  Historical  Society. 

5  Pennsylvania  Historical  Society. 


536  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

helping  to  found  the  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts  in  1805.  In 
1784,  he  had  begun  his  collections  in  his  Museum  of  Natural  History, 
which  finally  found  a  home  in  Independence  Hall.  It  was  about  this 
time  (1824),  that  he  painted  his  "self-portrait,"  holding  back  the  curtain 
of  his  museum  to  show  its  treasures.6 

Philadelphia  then  being  the  centre  of  intellectual  and  artistic  interests, 
Peale  represented  the  cosmopolitan  character  of  the  city  which  had  wel- 
comed the  birth  of  the  three  arts  of  drama,  music  and  painting.  There 
was  a  dignity,  too,  in  the  school  over  which  Peale  presided.  There  was 
nothing  of  Bohemian  pose  in  early  American  painting.  Peale  married  for 
his  second  wife,  Elizabeth  de  Peyster,  a  member  of  the  well-known  New 
York  family,  of  which  he  painted  so  many  members.  The  American 
painter's  chief  adversary  was  the  public's  ignorance  or  indifference  to  the 
arts,  but  there  was  no  great  social  barrier  to  overcome.  There  was  a 
wholesome  tone  as  well  as  charm  reflected  in  the  "family  groups"  which 
he  and  his  brother,  James,  painted,  and  which  are  of  interest  now  to  the 
social  historian.  A  definite  esprit  de  corps  among  the  painters  is  easy  to 
recognize  in  the  many  portraits  they  painted  of  each  other,  and  here, 
also,  C.  W.  Peak's  fine  portrait  of  Gilbert  Stuart 7  set  the  standard. 

Charles  Willson  Peak's  second  son,  Rembrandt,  (1778-1860),  came 
closest  to  his  father  in  achievement.  He  painted  Washington  from  life  in 
1795,  when  only  17.8  After  studying  with  West  during  1802-3,  he  re- 
turned to  Philadelphia,  but  in  1807,  went  to  Paris  where  he  painted  Jean 
Houdon,  the  sculptor,9  David,  the  neoclassicist,  and  others  for  his  father's 
"A4useum."  He  thus  represents  the  impulse,  which  also  showed  itself  in 
literature,  to  enrich  America  by  European  models  in  art.  Peale  made 
several  visits  to  Europe.  By  1834  he  finally  re-established  himself  in  New 
York  and  Philadelphia.  His  portraits  .of  Lafayette,10  of  Jefferson,11  of 
Naval  commanders,  like  Bainbridge,  Decatur  and  Perry  are  striking 
reproductions  of  spirited  people.  He  carried  on  his  father's  tradition  of 
recording  in  portraiture  the  records  of  American  public  life,  and  he  not 
only  helped  to  found  the  Pennsylvania  Academy,  and  the  American 
Academy  of  Design,  but  was  also  president  of  the  American  Academy. 

In  1823,  after  repeated  attempts,  he  painted  a  portrait  of  Washington, 
known  now  as  the  "porthole"  portrait,  which  was  a  composite  of  his 
earlier  life  portrait  and  his  study  of  other  paintings,  including  his  father's, 
Stuart's  and  Trumbull's.  While  this  is  an  idealization  it  is  a  very  "satis- 

8  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

7  New  York  Historical  Society. 

K  Pennsylvania  Historical  Society.  For  his  own  account  of  the  circumstances  under 
which  his  father,  his  uncle,  James,  and  he  painted  Washington  at  the  same  time,  see 
most  conveniently,  John  Hill  Morgan  and  A4antle  Fielding,  Life  Portraits  of  Wash- 
ington (Philadelphia,  1 9 3 1 ) ,  pp.  368-371. 

!)  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

10  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

11  New  York  Historical  Society. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  537 

factory"  representation  of  Washington  in  his  prime12  and  Peale  made 
seventy-nine  copies,  including  the  striking  equestrian  portrait  now  in 
Independence  Hall  in  Philadelphia. 

Another  pioneer,  Ralph  Earl,  (1751-1801),  born  in  Massachusetts,  has 
recently  won  recognition  for  his  realistic,  if  not  always  flattering,  por- 
traits of  New  England  people,  and  for  his  early  painting  of  landscape, 
for  its  own  sake,  rather  than  for  its  romantic  association.  He  had  studied 
in  England  and  there  is  an  austerity  in  his  realism  which  has  been  com- 
pared with  that  of  David.  But  Earl  is  decidedly  original,  and  in  his  por- 
traits, painted  after  his  return  to  this  country  in  1786,  and  illustrated  by 
his  portraits  of  Chief  Justice  Oliver  Ellsworth  and  his  wife,  there  is  a 
kinship  with  an  orthodoxy  which  had  not  yet  yielded  to  newer  religious 
or  literary  impulses.  But  it  was  republican  and  self-respecting,  like  the 
writing  of  Barlow,  Dwight,  and  Humphreys,  and  of  course  there  is  some- 
thing akin  in  the  return  to  classic  themes  and  the  republican  interest  in 
history;  both  represented  a  liking  for  reality. 

With  Gilbert  Stuart  (1758-1828),  American  portraiture  achieved  a 
significance  it  has  never  lost.  It  so  happened  that  a  room  devoted  to  his 
work  stood,  some  years  ago,  in  the  Boston  Athenaeum,  next  to  a  similar 
room  filled  with  Copley's  paintings.  The  latter's  subjects  were  decidedly 
and  determinedly  sitting  for  their  portraits.  Stuart's  were  real  people, 
slightly  idealized,  but  imbued  with  that  inner  radiance  that  makes  a 
portrait  alive.  There  was  also  a  professional  surety,  an  ease  of  poise,  that 
made  Copley's  portraits  seem  a  bit  stilted.  In  a  way  it  is  the  same  dif- 
ference that  exists  between  Barlow's  The  Cohimbiad  and  Bryant's  Than- 
atopsis,  or  between  Freneau's  "The  Wild  Honeysuckle"  and  Halleck's 
"Elegy  on  Joseph  Rodman  Drake." 

This  collection  included  one  of  the  three  portraits  of  Washington 
which  Stuart  painted  from  life,  in  1795  and  1796,  in  Philadelphia.  It  is 
now  known  as  the  "Athenaeum  Type."  This  professional  maturity  is 
shown  also  in  Stuart's  full  length  portrait  of  Washington,13  standing  with 
his  hand  outstretched  in  recognized  authority.  Stuart,  too,  had  studied 
with  West,  made  a  great  success  in  London,  and  had  lived  in  Scotland 
and  Ireland,  but  he  returned  to  this  country  in  1793  and  lived  in  Phila- 
delphia, Washington  and  Boston.  Whether  it  be  Jefferson,14  or  General 
Knox,14  or  Oliver  Hazard  Perry,14  or  Bishop  White,15  there  is  the  same 
glow  which  he  could  not  teach  his  followers,  however  he  tried  to  en- 
courage them.16 

Comment  has  frequently  been  made  upon  the  multiplicity  of  portraits 

12  Original  in  Capitol,  Washington,  D.  C. 

13  The  so-called  "Lansdowne  portrait,"  the  original  of  which,  however,  is  in  the 
Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts.  It  is  signed  by  him  "1796." 

14  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts. 

15  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

16  See  Barlow's  tribute  to  Stuart  in  The  Columbiad. 


538  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  George  Washington,  Benjamin  Franklin  and  others  of  our  early  states- 
men, not  only  by  different  painters,  but  also  by  the  same  artists.  But  a 
painter  like  Stuart  was  only  seeking  to  achieve  an  end  which  was  easily 
open  to  the  poet,  novelist  or  playwright  whose  work  might  be  multiplied 
in  print  indefinitely.  Stuart  m,ade  three  "type  portraits"  of  Washington 
from  life,  the  first  being  the  "Athenaeum  portrait"  in  Boston,  with  replicas 
in  the  American  Philosophical  Society  1T  and  in  the  Philadelphia  Histori- 
cal Society.  He  then  painted  replicas  of  his  work  for  one  hundred  dollars 
a  copy.  There  are  106  of  Washington  identified  as  by  Gilbert  Stuart, 
derived  from  the  "Vaughan,"  the  "Athenaeum"  or  the  "Lansdowne" 
type.18  These  could  also  be  multiplied  by  engraving,  but  the  coloring 
could  not  be  duplicated.  And  the  painter  has  an  advantage  over  the 
novelist  in  that  no  description  can  give  the  instant  impression  that  the 
Peale  or  Stuart  portraits  pass  on  to  posterity.  It  was  the  same  impulse, 
however,  that  prompted  all  the  arts. 

According  to  a  Russian  traveller,  Paul  Svinin,  "Every  American  con- 
siders it  his  sacred  duty  to  have  a  likeness  of  Washington  in  his  home, 
just  as  we  have  the  images  of  God's  Saints."  19 

The  two  main  impulses  that  shaped  our  early  painting  were  depictions 
of  individuals  and  of  historical  scenes.  John  Trumbull  (1756-1843),  was, 
like  C.  W.  Peale,  a  soldier  in  the  Revolution,  and  studied  with  West  in 
London  in  1780  and  1784.  His  ambition  was  to  record  the  history  of  the 
Revolution  and,  while  still  in  London,  he  began  six  of  his  historical  paint- 
ings, "The  Battle  of  Bunker's  Hill,"  "The  Death  of  General  A/[ontgomery 
at  Quebec,"  "The  Declaration  of  Independence,"  "The  Surrender  of  Lord 
Cornwallis,"  "The  Capture  of  the  Hessians  at  Trenton,"  and  "The  Death 
of  Mercer  at  Princeton."  He  sketched  in  his  general  idea  of  the  scene 
first  and  then  filled  in  the  faces  and  backgrounds— from  life,  where  that 
was  possible.  These  original  canvases  now  hang  in  the  Yale  University 
Art  Gallery  and  reveal  Washington  in  several  striking  poses.  They  are 
examples  of  careful  detail  and  are  valuable  contributions  to  history,  per- 
haps more  than  to  painting.  Trumbull  later  painted  some  larger  versions 
of  "The  Declaration,"  "The  Surrender  of  Burgoyne,"  "The  Surrender  of 
Cornwallis,"  and  "The  Resignation  of  Washington"  for  the  dome  of  the 
Capitol  at  Washington.  Even  in  his  own  day,  Trumbull  was  the  subject 
of  such  clever  criticism  as  Fitz-Greene  Halleck's  "National  Painting,"  in 
which  he  is  spoken  of  as: 

The  Titian  of  a  table  cloth, 
The  Guido  of  a  pair  of  breeches. 

1 »  Minutes  of  the  American  Philosophical  Society  show  it  was  painted  for  the 
Society. 

lsSec  Morgan  and  Fielding,  Life  Portraits  of  Washington. 

]'->A  Picturesque  Voyage  in  North  America  (18 15),  quoted  in  Life  in  America, 
Publications  of  the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art  (1939),  pp.  27-28. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  539 

This  meticulous  care  in  the  reproduction  of  detail  did  not  prevent 
Trumbull  from  painting  striking  portraits,  such  as  his  "Hamilton"  of 
1792  20  and  again  of  1802,21  used  today  on  the  ten  dollar  bill. 

Dividing  the  interest  in  American  history  reflected  in  painting,  sculp- 
ture and  architecture  was  the  inspiration  from  Greek  and  Roman  litera- 
ture and  the  Biblical  narrative.  Sometimes  the  classical  subject  was  treated 
for  its  own  sake,  as  in  John  Vanderlyn's  (1775-1852),  "Ariadne  Sleeping 
in  the  Island  of  Naxos,"  of  which  the  many  reproductions  give  no  idea 
of  the  warm  natural  coloring  of  the  original.22  Vanderlyn  had  painted 
Ariadne  in  Paris  and  that  he  dared  to  paint  a  nude,  with  such  exquisite 
taste  that  it  was  tolerated  in  the  United  States  in  18 12,  after  many  protests, 
is  significant  of  a  growing  liberality  in  taste.  Whether  he  was  affected 
by  democratic  sympathies,  in  painting  his  "Marius  amid  the  Ruins  of 
Carthage,"  23  or  was  simply  imitating  the  classical  style  of  David,  cannot 
be  determined,  but  Marius  was  to  become  a  favorite  figure  in  sculpture 
and  drama. 

The  reciprocal  influence  of  the  drama  and  painting  has  its  chief  ex- 
ponent in  William  Dunlap  (1766-1839).  His  History  of  the  American 
Theatre  (1832)  and  his  History  of  the  Rise  and  Progress  of  the  Arts  of 
Design  in  the  United  States  (1834),  are  still  storehouses  of  information 
on  the  kindred  arts.  Dunlap  began  with  pastels  of  George  and  Martha 
Washington  in  1783,  before  he  went  to  London  in  1784  to  study  with 
West.  He  tells  vividly  how  little  he  received  from  West  except  encourage- 
ment, but  he  saw  great  acting  and  returned  to  begin  his  career  as  a  play- 
wright and  producer.  His  work  as  a  dramatist  is  of  major  importance  in 
his  career  and  has  been  treated  in  an  earlier  chapter. 

After  his  bankruptcy  in  1806,  brought  about  by  conditions  in  the 
theatre  he  could  not  combat,  he  resumed  his  portrait  painting  and  even 
after  his  return  to  playwriting  he  painted  such  charming  pastels  as  his 
portrait  of  John  Howard  Payne,  his  fellow  playwright,  in  1809,  and  of 
Charles  Brockden  Brown,  his  friend.  His  theatrical  experience  helped 
him  to  visualize,  with  the  one  uninjured  eye  that  remained  to  him. 

But  probably  the  most  potent  influence,  affecting  reciprocally  litera- 
ture and  the  art  of  painting  was  Washington  Allston,  painter,  poet,  es- 
sayist and  novelist,  (1779- 1843),  whose  significance  is  now  becoming 
once  more  apparent  after  having  been  submerged  in  the  realistic  reaction 
of  the  latter  part  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Born  in  South  Carolina,  he 
grew  up  in  Newport  and  graduated  from  Harvard  in  1800,  went  to 
London  in  1801  and  studied  with  West,  exhibited  at  Somerset  House  his 
landscape  of  the  New  England  rocky  coast,  then  after  working  in  Paris 

20  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 
2  x  New  York  Historical  Society. 

22  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

23  M.  H.  de  Young  Memorial  Museum,  San  Francisco.  (Only  reproductions  seen.) 


540  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  in  Italy,  returned  to  America  for  two  years,  1 808-10,  and  finally  left 
England  for  this  country  in  1818,  settling  in  Boston  and  later  moving  to 
Cambridgeport. 

His  historical  painting  was  based  either  on  the  Bible  or  upon  history, 
ancient  or  medieval.  One  of  his  greatest  paintings  "The  Dead  Man  Re- 
vived by  Touching  the  Bones  of  the  Prophet  Elijah"24  (1811-13)  re- 
veals his  ability  in  depicting  a  group  of  characters  under  the  emotions 
of  wonder  and  terror,  at  the  mysterious  crossing  of  the  line  between  the 
real  and  the  supernatural.25 

His  subjects  were  usually  romantic  and  treated  idealistically.  "The 
Deluge"  26  is  a  fine  example  of  dramatic  treatment,  with  its  human  figures 
flung  in  the  foreground  in  striking  contrast  to  the  dark  background  of 
sky  and  water.  "Uriel  in  the  Sun"  2T  is  especially  effective.  Even  more 
striking  are  his  portraits  of  his  mother  and  of  West,  with  the  brooding 
eyes.  His  nature  painting  was  epoch  making.  In  "The  Rising  of  a  Thunder 
Storm  at  Sea"  (1804),28  "we  are  confronted,"  says  his  most  competent 
critic,  "for  the  first  time  in  American  Art  by  the  power  of  the  artistic 
imagination  to  transfigure,  without  altering  the  facts  of  nature,  by  its 
sense  of  the  poetry  and  mystery  of  existence."  29  His  later  landscapes, 
such  as  "Italian  Landscape"  (1830),30  or  "A  Spanish  Girl"31  (before 
183 1 ),  like  his  poem,  "Spanish  Maid"  are  a  combination  of  personal  emo- 
tion and  scenery.  The  charm  of  these  lies  in  the  power  of  memories  guided 
by  the  fingers  of  reverie.  They  refute  the  statement  that  Allston  had  lost 
his  power  after  he  returned  to  the  United  States.  "It  is  worth  noting" 
says  Richardson,  "—  how  the  people  in  this  pictured  world  really  live: 
they  are  not  mere  staffage  figures  put  in  as  spots  of  color  to  help  the 
composition,  but  each  has  its  own  delicate  note  of  inner  life  to  give  it 
its  own  reason  for  existence."  32 

The  large  number  of  Biblical  subjects  in  our  painting  and  sculpture, 
paralleling  this  interest  in  poetry  and  drama,  such  as  Dwight's  Conquest 
of  Canaan,  Whittier's  early  verses,  "Eve  at  the  Burial  of  Abel,"  or  Willis's 
theological  verses,  also  early,  may  have  been  an  unconscious  substitution 
for  medieval  use  of  the  Virgin  or  the  saints  in  art,  or,  of  course,  merely 
a  reflection  of  inherited  Biblical  piety. 

Allston,  like  Emerson,  was  a  representative  of  the  universal  in  art  and 
letters.  He  declined  to  paint  a  large  historical  canvas  for  the  Capitol  in 
1830.  He  could  not  paint  battle  scenes,  he  said  and  he  added:  "I  know 

24  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

25  The  painting  is  based  on  an  episode  in  Second  Kings,  xiii:2o-2i. 

26  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

27  Dana  Collection,  Cambridge. 

28  Boston  Museum. 

29  E.  P.  Richardson,  Washington  Allston  (1948),  p.  66. 

30  Detroit  Institute  of  Arts.  Seen  at  Boston  Museum. 

31  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

32  Richardson,  Allston,  p.  148. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  541 

not  where,  even  among  the  great  names  of  my  art,  to  look  for  anything 
like  the  living  mass  of  one  of  Cooper's  battles."  33 

Allston's  poetry,  beginning  with  his  Poems  of  181 3  and  concluding 
with  his  collected  volume  in  1850,  are  symbolic  and  philosophic  and,  with 
a  few  exceptions,  such  as  the  sonnets  on  Coleridge  and  on  Rembrandt, 
are  not  of  great  moment.  Neither  is  his  novel,  Moiialdi,  so  far  as  plot  is 
concerned.  It  is  laid  in  Italy  and  deals  with  the  revenge  of  a  painter  on 
those  who  neglected  him.  What  lifts  Allston  to  a  place  in  literature  higher 
than  is  usually  allotted  to  him  are  the  stimulating  ideas  to  be  found  in 
Monaldi  or,  more  frequently,  in  his  prose  lectures  and  essays  written  from 
1830  and  published  only  in  1850.  These  ideas  owe  much  to  their  form, 
for  Allston  is  more  truly  a  poet  here  than  in  his  verse.  In  his  insistence 
upon  the  ideal  in  art,  his  theories  were  akin  to  Poe's  as  expressed  in  the 
"Poetic  Principle."  He  differed  with  Poe,  however,  in  demanding  for 
spiritual  pleasure  that  "the  three  ideas  of  Beauty,  Truth  and  Holiness— 
which  we  assume  to  represent  the  perfect  in  the  physical,  intellectual,  and 
moral  world— are  but  the  several  realized  phases  of  this  Sovereign  Prin- 
ciple, which  we  shall  call  Harmony."  34  He  objected  to  mere  reality.  To 
him,  "the  artist  may  not  even  approach  it,  except  through  the  transform- 
ing atmosphere  of  the  imagination."  Everything  goes  back  to  the  fact 
of  an  infinite  Creator  which  results  in  the  Universal  in  Art.  But  it  is  not 
the  "passive  master"  of  Emerson— "Originality,  Poetic  Truth,  Invention, 
each  implies  a  something  not  inherent  in  the  objects  imitated  but  which 
must  emanate  alone  from  the  mind  of  the  artist."  "Some  people"  he  ob- 
served, "see  more  with  their  minds  than  others  with  their  eyes."  Through 
a  remarkable  contrast  between  the  work  of  a  Dutch  artist,  Ostade,  and 
that  of  Raphael,  he  shows  how  there  is  a  place  in  art  for  both  familiar 
and  romantic  material.  It  is  the  method,  realistic  or  idealistic,  that  makes 
the  difference.  Allston  knew  the  supreme  value  of  youthful  illusions— he 
speaks  of  those  whom  "the  world  is  preparing  to  enlighten  with  unbelief" 
and  adds  "but  there  are  some  hearts  that  never  suffer  the  mind  to  grow 
old." 

Allston  constantly  called  attention  to  the  necessity  for  the  painter  and 
sculptor  of  that  knowledge  of  the  human  being  which  is  the  inspiration 
of  the  poet.  He  seemed  to  be  looking  forward  a  century  when  he  criticized 
even  some  of  the  great  masters  who  "gave  us  diagrams  instead  of  life." 
His  essay  on  "Composition"  should  be  read  by  every  artist,  and  the  source 
hunters  in  literature  who  attempt  to  "derive"  Poe  or  Longfellow  could 
profit  by  his  analysis  of  the  effect  of  his  predecessors  upon  Raphael,  who 
contributed  to  the  development  of  his  powers:  "not  as  presenting  models 
of  imitation  but  as  shedding  new  light  on  his  own  mind."  The  most 
original  minds  must  owe  much  to  others,  for  "genius  always  appears  in 

33  J.  B.  Flagg,  Life  and  Letters  of  Washington  Allston  (1892),  p.  230. 

34  Lectures  on  Art,  ed.  R.  H.  Dana,  Jr.  (1850),  p.  16. 


542  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

clusters"  and  originality  in  art  is  the  individualizing  of  the  Universal.  But 
Allston  was  never  forgetful  of  his  own  country— he  concluded  his  essays 
with  the  sentence:  "The  dead  in  Art  may  well  be  likened  to  the  hardy 
pioneers  of  our  own  country,  who  have  successively  cleared  before  us 
the  swamps  and  forests  that  would  have  obstructed  our  progress,  and 
opened  to  us  lands  which  the  efforts  of  no  individual,  however  persever- 
ing, would  enable  him  to  reach."  In  treating  Allston,  a  reader  is  constantly 
tempted  to  quote  his  aphorisms  like  "the  misty  spectacles  of  self-love,"  or 
"Good  and  Evil  have  a  moral  life,  which  nothing  in  time  can  extinguish; 
the  instant  they  exist,  they  start  for  Eternity."  The  neglect  of  Allston 
during  the  later  part  of  the  nineteenth  century  is  all  the  more  to  be  re- 
gretted, for  his  inspiration  to  his  fellow  artists  was  great.  As  Greenough 
wrote  to  Dunlap:  "He  taught  me  how  to  discriminate,  how  to  think, 
how  to  feel."  35 

Allston's  influence  upon  the  writers  of  his  own  day  or  later  is  difficult 
to  overestimate.  In  his  projected  "college,"  Emerson  placed  Allston  first 
among  his  Faculty,  and  his  essay  on  "Art"  owes  much  to  him.  His  stimu- 
lation of  Irving  has  been  mentioned  and  he  contributed  two  illustrations 
to  the  latter's  History  of  New  York.  Hawthorne  refers  to  Allston  in  his 
story  "The  Artist  of  the  Beautiful"  as  one  who  "leaves  half  his  conception 
on  the  canvas,  to  sadden  us  with  its  imperfect  beauty,"  and  undoubtedly 
in  his  conception  of  the  artist  had  Allston  as  his  model. 

The  exhibition  of  Allston's  painting  in  1839  called  forth  critical  ap- 
preciations by  Margaret  Fuller  in  the  Dial  and  Holmes  in  the  North 
America?!  Review.  Lowell,  in  his  "Cambridge  Thirty  Years  Ago,"  has 
painted  a  remarkable  picture  of  the  artist  as  he  saw  him  while  a  boy  and, 
in  speaking  of  the  Italian  influence  upon  Allston,  remarked:  "it  is  of  less 
consequence  where  a  man  buys  his  tools  than  what  use  he  makes  of 
them." 

Emerson  presents  a  useful  comparison  with  Allston  as  a  critic  of  the 
fine  arts.  Emerson's  establishment  of  the  principles  of  the  creation  of  the 
fine  arts  proceeded  not  so  much  from  observation  of  painting  and  sculp- 
ture as  from  the  application  of  his  own  abstract  philosophy  of  life  to 
concrete  objects  he  was  observing.  This  philosophy  was  based  on  Plato's 
statement:  "Those  things  which  are  said  to  be  done  by  Nature  are  in- 
deed done  by  divine  art."  36  Emerson  was  constantly  treating  of  the  unity 
of  the  arts  from  1836,  when  he  lectured  in  Boston  on  "Michael  Angelo,"  37 
whom  he  selected  as  an  artist  in  Painting,  Sculpture,  Architecture  and 
Poetry.  In  his  essay  "Thoughts  on  Art"  in  the  Dial 3S  he  proceeds  from 

35  William  Dunlap,  Rise  and  Progress  of  the  Arts  of  Design,  Vol.  2,  p.  421. 
30  See  "Thoughts  on  Art." 

37  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  44  (Jan.  1837),  pp.  1-16.  Reprinted,  Works,  Centenary 
Edition,  Vol.  12,  pp.  213-244.  References  are  to  this  edition. 

38  Vol.  1  (Jan.  1841),  pp.  367-378.  Reprinted  as  "Art"  in  Works,  Vol.  7  (1870). 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  543 

this  basis  to  define  art  as  "The  conscious  utterance  of  thought,  by  speech 
or  action,  to  any  end."— "The  universal  soul  is  the  alone  creator  of  the 
useful  and  the  beautiful";  therefore  in  our  appreciation  not  only  of  the 
poetry  of  Shakespeare  but  also  of  the  work  of  Allston  and  Greenough— 
the  poet,  painter  and  sculptor  "did  not  foresee  and  design  all  the  effect 
they  produce  upon  us."  An  acute  comparison  between  painting  and 
poetry  appeared  in  the  Dial.39  "The  painters  will  not  paint  for  their 
times,  agitated  by  the  spirit  which  agitates  their  country— but  they  copy 
the  technics  of  their  predecessors,  and  paint  for  their  predecessors'  public. 
It  seems  as  though  the  same  vice  had  worked  in  poetry."  In  his  essay 
"Art",  in  the  First  Series  (1847),40  he  insists  that  creation,  not  imitation 
is  to  be  the  aim,  and  he  remarks  on  the  "power  to  fix  the  momentary 
eminency  of  an  object"  as  shared  by  oratory,  poetry,  painting  and  sculp- 
ture. In  this  discussion,  Emerson  insists  that  "Though  we  travel  the  world 
over  to  find  the  beautiful,  we  must  carry  it  with  us,  or  we  find  it  not." 
It  is  his  old  theory  of  self-reliance  and  his  discussion  of  the  effect  of  paint- 
ing and  sculpture  upon  him,  when  he  saw  the  Italian  galleries  for  the 
first  time,  reveals  an  inability  to  appreciate  them  in  full.  He  came,  how- 
ever, closer  to  appreciating  in  full,  Raphael  and  Michael  Angelo.  Emer- 
son's reason  for  our  paucity  of  genius  in  1836  was  the  lack  of  connection 
between  the  people  and  art.  "A  vital  faith,"  he  said,  "built  the  Cathedrals 
of  Europe."  41  Emerson  rested  his  belief  in  the  ultimate  triumph  of  art 
upon  the  fact  that  "beauty,  truth  and  goodness  are  not  obsolete;  they 
spring  eternal  in  the  breast  of  man."  42 

The  reciprocal  influence  in  literature,  theatre  and  painting  shows  clearly 
in  Thomas  Sully  (1783-1872),  who,  though  born  in  England,  came  to 
Charleston  in  1792.  Encouraged  by  Cooper,  Trumbull  and  Allston,  he 
went  to  London  in  1809,  where  West  was  "like  a  father  to  him"  and,  on 
his  return,  he  began  his  long  career  as  a  portrait  painter,  largely  in  Phila- 
delphia. Among  the  best  of  Thomas  Sully's  portraits  are  the  dramatic 
figure  of  the  tragedian,  G.  F.  Cooke,43  in  Richard  HI;  of  Fanny  Kemble,43 
as  Beatrice  and  as  Bianca;  and  of  her  father,  Charles  Kemble.43  Sully  was 
in  England  in  1838  and  painted  Victoria  in  her  coronation  robes,  a  striking 
figure  of  the  young  queen  turning  to  ascend  the  throne.44  Sully's  portrait 
of  Poe,45  painted  during  the  latter's  residence  in  Philadelphia  from 
1838-44,  is  unlike  the  usual  representations  of  Poe,  and  the  crimson  lining 
of  his  cloak  is  a  touch  of  the  romantic,  which  Sully  loved.  His  portrait 

39  "Europe  and  European  Books,"  Vol.  3  (April,  1843),  p.  517.  Reprinted,  Works, 
Vol.  12,  pp.  370-371. 

40  Part  of  the  essay  was  given  as  a  lecture  in  1836. 

41  Journals,  Vol.  4  (1836),  pp.  108-109. 

42  Works,  Vol.  7,  p.  57. 

43  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

44  Philadelphia  Museum  of  Art. 

45  Privately  owned. 


544  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  the  young  Emerson,  too,  has  a  more  romantic  flair  than  is  usually  as- 
sociated with  Emerson,  but  the  likeness  is  unmistakable. 

There  was  a  flavor  of  the  patrician  in  Sully's  portraits.  Those  of  Major 
Thomas  Biddle  46  and  of  Peter  du  Ponceau47  are  among  his  best  and 
they  prove,  if  it  were  necessary,  that  there  were  always  spirited  people 
to  paint.  And  one  of  his  finest  portrayals,  that  of  Lafayette,48  painted 
from  life  in  1824,  has  both  drama  and  poise  in  it.  His  portrait  of  Jefferson, 
presented  by  him  to  the  American  Philosophical  Society,  can  challenge 
comparison  with  Stuart's  Jefferson. 

Sully's  influence  in  establishing  a  mood  of  romantic  idealism  in  paint- 
ing paralleled  closely  the  similar  phase  of  literature  of  which  Nathaniel 
Parker  Willis  was  one  of  the  foremost  representatives  in  poetry  and 
drama.  It  was  an  age  of  exalted  sentiment,  which  existed  quite  comfort- 
ably alongside  of  Jacksonian  democracy,  and  was  probably  a  welcome 
relief  to  it  at  times.  Willis's  favorite  theme,  that  of  the  artist  triumphing 
over  the  dullness  of  a  society  that  could  not  appreciate  him,  seen  best  in 
his  poetic  drama,  Tortesa  the  Usurer,  or  his  novel,  Paul  Fane,  is  just  as 
truly  a  product  of  the  mid-century,  even  if  it  is  a  contrast  to  an  on- 
coming mode  of  thought. 

Sully's  effects  were  studied  by  an  artist  who  nevertheless  represents 
more  definitely  the  native  painter.  Chester  Harding  (1792- 1866),  a  Massa- 
chusetts sign  painter,  did  not  visit  London  until  1823,  after  he  had  es- 
tablished his  own  manner  and  had  become  well  known.  His  portraits  of 
Daniel  Boone,  of  Henry  Clay,49  of  William  and  Mary  Lorman,50  or  his 
self-portrait 51  are  very  effective.  They  are  real  people  studied  by  a  painter 
who  carried  his  almost  self-taught  methods  to  England  with  great  success. 

Sully  also  apparently  inspired  another  romantic  idealist,  Henry  Inman 
(1801-45),  Dorn  in  Utica,  New  York,  but  spending  a  good  part  of  his 
life  in  Philadelphia.  His  "Portrait  of  the  Artist,"  52  in  which  the  hat  brim 
throws  shadows  on  the  face,  is  unusual.  Other  striking  portraits  of  Sully,52 
of  John  Marshall,52  and  of  Adacaulay,52  which  Inman  painted  in  England, 
are  excellent.  He  also  turned  to  genre  painting  and  his  "Mumble  the 
Peg"55  and  "Dismissed  from  School  on  an  October  Afternoon,"54  be- 
came justly  famous  for  their  endowment  of  the  joys  of  childhood  with 
imaginative  life.  They  parallel  closely  Whittier's  "Memories"  or  "School 
Days." 


4G  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 
47  American  Philosophical  Society. 
Is  Independence  Hall,  Philadelphia. 

49  Amherst  College. 

50  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 
B '  Boston  Museum. 

r>2  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

■r>'!  Boston  Museum. 

54  New  York  Public  Library. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  545 

A  departure  from  the  conventional  type  of  portrait  was  the  striking 
figure  of  Pat  Lyon,  the  Blacksmith,55  painted  by  John  Neagle  (1796- 
1865),  of  Boston  and  Philadelphia.  The  portrait  is  that  of  a  man  working 
at  his  trade,  a  most  unusual  pose  for  the  time.  Lyon  was  a  notable  local 
figure  in  Philadelphia,  a  play  called  Patrick  Lyon  being  performed  at  the 
Arch  Street  Theatre  in  1843.  Neagle  represented  brilliantly  the  demo- 
cratic desire  of  his  model.  His  other  work  seems  best  when  it  represents 
power,  as  in  his  portrait  of  Dr.  Dewees,56  or  sympathy,  as  in  his  treatment 
of  Stuart,  when  the  young  painter  visited  him  in  1825  to  paint  the  last 
portrait  of  his  master. 

Neagle's  own  portrait,  by  Bass  Otis  (1 784-1 861),  represents  simple, 
honest  painting,  of  which  the  Philadelphia  group  had  so  many  repre- 
sentatives. The  portrait  of  Mrs.  Acuff,  in  the  Pennsylvania  Academy,  is 
very  lifelike,  as  are  his  William  Henry  Harrison  and  Thomas  Leiper. 

If  there  had  been  more  of  a  career  open  to  the  artist  in  America,  Samuel 
F.  B.  Morse  (1791-1871),  might  not  have  left  it  to  develop  the  telegraph 
and  the  "Morse  Code."  57  His  friendship  with  Cooper  led  him  to  paint  the 
view  from  Apple  Hill,  at  Cooperstown,  in  1828,  but  his  portraits  of  Henry 
Clay,58  of  Eli  Whitney  and,  especially,  of  Lafayette,  in  1826,  are  more 
notable  for  their  vigor.  For  sheer  loveliness,  however,  "The  Muse,"  a 
portrait  of  his  daughter,  painted  in  1835,  and  one  of  the  last  he  produced, 
is  hardly  excelled  in  this  period.59 

In  contrast  to  these  romantic  painters,  there  were  men  like  Jacob 
Eichholz  (1776- 1 802),  of  Lancaster,  Pennsylvania,  who  was  helped  by 
Stuart  in  Boston  but  returned  to  Philadelphia  and  painted  250  portraits, 
a  few  landscapes  and  some  historical  pictures.  The  portraits  of  Admiral 
Porter  and  David  Heckewelder  60  are  quite  effective,  but  of  especial  in- 
terest is  that  of  a  Mennonite  woman  with  a  stern  face  and  folded  hands, 
which  reminds  the  observer  of  one  of  the  primitives. 

The  Colonial  tradition  in  pastels,  of  which  Copley  was  the  best  rep- 
resentative, developed  under  the  leadership  of  an  Englishman,  James 
Sharpies,  to  a  more  democratic  art.  Malcolm  Vaughan,61  attributes  the 
alertness,  which  characterizes  so  many  of  our  pastels  in  the  early  nine- 
teenth century,  to  his  influence,  and  his  followers  caught  the  spirit  of 
our  practical  idealism.  There  certainly  is  a  delicacy  in  these  products  of 
the  crayon,  notably  in  a  pastel  of  Charles  Brockden  Brown  by  Sharpies, 

55  Original  in  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts.  Replica  by  Neagle  in  Pennsylvania 
Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

56  Medical  Department,  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

57  In  his  letter  to  Cooper  in  1849  he  said:  "Painting  has  been  a  cruel  jilt  to  me.  I 
did  not  abandon  her— she  abandoned  me." 

58  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

59  See  Life  in  America,  p.  77. 

60  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 
^International  Studio  (May,  1928),  p.  17. 


546  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

which  rivals  similar  achievements  in  oils.  Yet  a  collection  of  forty-one 
of  Sharples's  pastels  at  Independence  Hall,  Philadelphia,  have  retained 
their  lifelike  coloring,  since  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century  when 
thev  were  painted. 

Quite  a  few  of  the  pastelists  devoted  themselves  to  a  related  art,  that 
of  the  miniature,  an  art  that  goes  back  to  the  fifth  century,  b.c.  The  in- 
ception of  a  miniature  differs  somewhat  from  that  of  a  portrait  because 
the  former  springs  from  a  definite  personal  interest  in  someone  else,  whose 
image  is  to  be  preserved  and  often  worn  on  the  person.  The  personal 
quality  is  reflected  in  the  delicacy  and  distinction  of  the  art,  which  in  the 
hands  of  such  a  master  as  Edward  Greene  Malbone  (1777-1807),  is  a 
mute  tribute  to  a  love  of  beauty  that  remained  at  home  in  the  United 
States  and  did  not  need  European  accompaniment.  Malbone,  born  in 
Newport,  knew  Allston,  who  was  at  Harvard,  and,  in  his  short  life, 
painted  human  loveliness  from  Boston  to  Charleston.  His  women  are 
not  mere  "subjects,"  however;  they  are  full  of  character.  Rebecca  Gratz 
of  Philadelphia,  supposed  to  be  the  original  of  Rebecca  in  Ivanhoe,  is 
quite  different  from  Mrs.  James  Lownes,  a  Southern  beauty.62  A  product 
of  his  fancy,  "A  Little  Scotch  Girl,"  is  just  as  charming  as  his  real  sitters, 
and  his  self-portrait  is  perhaps  his  masterpiece.63 

Many  of  the  miniatures  are  by  unknown  artists,  and  it  would  be  idle 
to  attempt  a  catalogue  in  this  place.  Robert  Fulton,  before  he  took  his 
steamboat  up  the  Hudson,  painted  miniatures  and  also  portraits  like  that 
of  Joel  Barlow  in  the  Columbiad.  The  Peale  family,  especially  James  and 
Rembrandt,  have  given  us  delightful  ones  and  Anna,  James'  daughter, 
carried  on  the  tradition  until  1838.  Henry  Benb ridge  (1744-18 12)  of 
Philadelphia  and  Charleston,  conveys  in  his  miniature  of  Elizabeth 
Timothy,  the  poise  of  Charleston  which  still  lingers  in  that  city.  Irish  or 
English  painters  who  came  over  and  remained  here,  like  Walter  Robertson 
and  Robert  Field,  did  some  unusually  fine  work  such  as  Field's  miniatures 
of  Mary  Taylor  Lloyd  and  Frances  Townley  Chase  of  Maryland  or 
Robertson's  miniature  of  Washington. 

Benjamin  Trott,  who  worked  in  Philadelphia,  is  an  example  of  more 
masculine  effects,  of  which  his  "Lewis  Trott,"  in  the  Pratt  Collection  at 
Amherst  College,  is  a  good  specimen.  So  is  John  Wesley  Jarvis  ( 1 78 1  ?- 
1839),  whose  work  in  regular  portraiture  led  him  to  a  commission  to 
paint  the  heroes  of  the  War  of  18 12  for  the  City  Hall  in  New  York.  But 
the  art  of  miniature  painting  is  not  a  public  but  a  private  art.  The  de- 
velopment of  the  photograph,  about  1850,  put  an  end  to  the  vogue  of 
the  miniature  for  a  long  time.  It  remains,  however,  as  a  mute  testimony 
to  a  social  group  which  rarely  came  into  literature,  except  in  the  pages 

82  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

,i:!  Sec  H.  B.  Wehle,  American  Miniatures  (1937),  for  many  examples  of  Malbone's 

miniatures. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  547 

of  Cooper  and  Willis  and  Kennedy,  and  almost  never  appeared  on  the 
stage. 

There  could  hardly  be  a  more  definite  contrast  than  that  existing  be- 
tween the  miniature  and  the  "primitives"  of  the  early  nineteenth  century, 
which  are  now  attracting  such  attention.  They  were  the  product  of  a 
native  and  unschooled  art,  the  work  of  itinerant  painters  who  if  naive, 
were  sincere.  Nearly  all  are  by  unknown  artists,  although  the  work  of 
Edward  Hicks  (1780- 1849),  a  Quaker  preacher  remembered  also  for  his 
"Washington  Crossing  the  Delaware,"  has  been  identified.  The  sitters 
are  often  quite  as  unknown,  but  a  portrait  of  John  Milton  Raymond,  in 
1836,  shows  that  this  type  of  portraiture  continued  at  least  that  long.  The 
essential  of  the  "primitive"  lies  in  the  method  of  the  artists.  From  the 
appearance  of  two  unknowns  in  the  Pennsylvania  Academy,  the  bodies 
are  not  closely  co-ordinated  with  the  heads.  The  painter  evidently  had  a 
number  of  bodies  painted,  with  the  hands  arranged  in  a  conventional  pat- 
tern. He  then  drew  the  faces  from  the  persons  before  him.  The  result 
should  have  been  a  pattern  likeness,  but  this  is  not  by  any  means  the  case. 
With  a  concentration  on  the  head  of  the  sitter,  he  did  not  fritter  away 
time  on  details,  but  caught  the  expression  as  a  whole.  At  times  he  painted 
landscapes  also,  like  "Under  Cliff,"  by  Thomas  Chambers,  the  home  of 
General  Morris  in  the  Hudson  Valley,  but  this  effort  was  not  so  com- 
mon. It  was  a  democratic  art,  which  brought  painting  to  walls,  especially 
in  New  England,  where  art  had  been  anathematized.  In  the  scenic  "primi- 
tives," the  trees  and  buildings  are  painted  in  stiff  and  detached  detail,  and 
the  lack  of  co-ordination  is  their  main  characteristic.64 

The  art  of  painting  on  glass;  the  "fractur"  painting  of  the  Pennsylvania 
Germans;  groups  made  up  of  silhouettes  cut  out  and  pasted,  all  show  the 
efforts  of  untaught  workers.  They  are  more  important  in  the  history  of 
American  taste  than  in  that  of  painting.  The  remarkable  picture  of 
"America"  gazing  up  to  heaven  while  symbolic  figures  wait  upon  her, 
has  its  parallel  in  the  drama  of  Americana:  or  A  New  Tale  of  the  Genii, 
put  on  the  stage  in  Charleston  in  1798,  in  which  Franklin  is  represented 
symbolically  in  the  midst  of  the  Genii  of  Liberty,  America  and  France! 

Genre  painting,  which  represented  the  life  of  the  people  in  groups  and 
broad  social  contacts,  is  a  later  development  than  individual  portraiture, 
for  the  obvious  reason  perhaps  that  portraits  were  paid  for  by  the  indi- 
vidual sitter.  John  Lewis  Krimmel  ( 1787-182 1)  born  in  Germany,  came 
to  Philadelphia  in  18 10.  His  pictures  of  social  scenes  in  public  are  of  real 
historic  importance  since  he  worked  from  observation  and  had  a  sense  of 
grouping  which  makes  the  scene  a  unit.  His  painting  "Centre  Square 
about  1 8 10"  65  represents  the  open  air  meeting  place  of  the  Philadelphians 

64  See  Wolfgang  Born,  American  Landscape  Painting  (New  Haven,  1948),  Chap.  IV, 
for  an  interesting  treatment  of  the  primitive  painters  of  the  American  Scene. 

65  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 


548  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  that  day,  with  Rush's  famous  "Nymph  of  the  Schuylkill"  and  the  first 
water  works,  in  the  background.  A  later  painting  of  the  same  square  on 
the  Fourth  of  July,  1819,66  reveals  in  the  costumes,  poses  and  sense  of 
action  a  growing  informality  in  public  places.  "Election  Day,  181 5"; GG 
"A  Country  Wedding,"  67  in  which  the  clergyman  was  drawn  from 
Bishop  White;  "The  Return  from  a  Boarding  School,"  a  distinct  satire 
on  the  evils  of  pseudo-fashion,  are  the  work  of  a  careful  observer.  The 
last  is  akin  to  the  later  pictures  of  Henry  Sargent  of  Boston,  "The  Dinner 
Party"  68  and  the  "Tea  Party,"  68  not  so  much  satirical  as  decorative. 

Genre  painting  naturally  is  closely  allied  to  literature.  The  Salmagundi 
papers  of  Irving  and  Paulding;  plays  like  Tyler's  The  Contrast;  poetry  like 
Barlow's  Hasty  Pudding;  novels  like  Brackenridge's  Modern  Chivalry,  all 
antedate  the  efforts  of  Krimmel  to  depict  life  in  public. 

In  the  heart  of  the  romantic  period  the  representation  of  real  life  went 
on.  William  S.  Mount  (1807-68)  born  in  Setauket,  Long  Island,  painted 
with  a  care  that  implies  sympathy  rather  than  satire.  "The  Painter's  Tri- 
umph," 69  an  artist  showing  his  friend  his  masterpiece,  is  full  of  life.  "The 
Power  of  Music,"  70  a  picture  of  a  Negro  boy  listening  outside  a  cottage 
in  which  a  white  musician  is  playing  the  violin,  is  a  moving  study  in 
sympathy.  "A  Landscape,"  71  in  which  a  painter  is  looking  at  a  woman 
who  is  painting  a  body  of  water,  is  very  appealing.  Mount's  choice  of  the 
realistic  method  was  deliberate,  as  was  also  his  constant  selection  of  rural 
settings  for  his  paintings.  "Farmers  Nooning"  74;  "Bargaining  for  a 
Horse"  72  and  its  sequel  "Coming  to  the  Point,"  73  with  the  two  farmers 
carefully  watching  each  other;  "California  News,"  74  and  many  other 
scenes  were  depicted  by  one  who  knew  and  loved  the  rural  life  that  was 
still  in  large  measure  America.  From  the  technical  point  of  view  his  colors 
are  vibrant  and  finished,  and  as  a  recent  critic  has  said:  "The  polished 
clarity  of  a  perpetual  spring  morning  fills  the  atmosphere."  75 

George  C.  Bingham  (181 1-79),  born  in  Virginia,  and  growing  up  in 
Missouri,  studied  at  the  Pennsylvania  Academy  in  1837,  where  he  may 
have  seen  Krimmel's  "Election  Day."  In  any  event,  his  "Stump  Speaking" 
and  his  "Verdict  of  the  People,"  76  in  1854,  are  vivid  pictures  of  crowds 
in  political  gatherings.  His  "Daniel  Boone  Coming  through  Cumberland 

60  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania. 

07  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

08  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts. 

60  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

70  Century  Association,  New  York. 

71  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts,  often  described  as  "The  Artist  and  his 
Wife,"  but  Mount  never  married. 

72  Historical  Societv  of  New  York. 
7:!  New  York  Public  Library. 

7-1  Privately  owned. 

75  Albert  T.  Gardner,  "Paumanok  Preserved."  Bull,  of  the  Metropolitan  Museum  of 
Art  (Feb.  1945),  p.  146. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  549 

Gap"  is  in  the  same  manner,  though  the  theme  is  more  romantic.  So  are 
"Raftsmen  Playing  Cards"  76  and  "Watching  the  Cargo"  76  in  which 
Bingham  joined  genre  painting  with  the  chronicle  of  the  Western  scene. 
"Shooting  for  the  Beef"  76  is  a  celebration  of  the  skill  attained  through 
the  "Kentucky"  rifle,  which  was  really  a  product  of  the  German-speaking 
gunsmiths  near  Lancaster,  Pennsylvania. 

This  genre  painting  parallels  the  depiction  of  simple  American  life 
by  Longfellow,  Whittier  and  Lowell.  Mount  might  have  painted  a  "Vil- 
lage Blacksmith"  or  a  scene  from  "Snowbound"  if  he  had  thought  of  it. 
In  drama,  Jonathan  Plowboy  and  Solon  Shingle,  with  his  "bar'l  of  apple 
sass,"  are  kindred  spirits.  The  Firemen  plays  77  of  the  forties  also  belong 
to  this  impulse. 

The  Indian  and  the  Negro  were  naturally  the  subjects  of  artistic  in- 
terest. As  early  as  1796,  Cornplanter  or  Ki-on-Twog-Ky,  a  Seneca  chief, 
was  painted  by  F.  Bartoli,  in  New  York,  and  the  famous  "Red jacket"  or 
Sa-go-ye-wat-ha  was  not  only  painted  from  life  by  Robert  W.  Weir,  in 
1828,  but  also  was  celebrated  by  Fitz-Greene  Halleck  in  his  poem,  "Red- 
jacket."  As  in  Cooper's  novels  or  in  Longfellow's  "Hiawatha"  the  Indians 
were  usually  chieftains  and  the  many  crayon  portraits  by  the  French 
artist,  C.  B.  J.  F.  de  St.  Memin,  in  the  New  York  Historical  Society,  rep- 
resent them  from  the  picturesque  rather  than  from  the  later  propaganda 
point  of  view. 

The  Negro  in  the  early  nineteenth  century,  as  painted  by  C.  W.  Peale, 
or  in  the  forties  by  Mount,  was  chosen  also  for  his  picturesque  quality. 
It  was  in  the  forties  and  early  fifties  that  Stephen  Collins  Foster  wrote  his 
ballads,  and  "Old  Kentucky  Home"  was  the  direct  inspiration  for  East- 
man Johnson's  picture  of  the  same  name  dated  1859.78  In  1852,  when 
Uncle  Torrts  Cabin  appeared,  came  also  such  a  painting  as  Taylor's  "An 
American  Slave  Market"  and  the  horrors  of  Slavery  found  their  way  into 
illustrations.  But  the  better  painters  remained  aloof  from  the  Abolition 
crusade. 

Among  the  phases  of  American  life  that  attracted  painters,  sport  was 
one  of  the  perennials.  Horse  racing  was  represented  as  early  as  1780,  and 
the  best  known  race  horses  were  depicted,  in  some  cases  by  such  well- 
known  painters  as  Edward  Troye.  Fires  were  also,  through  their  dra- 
matic quality,  a  challenge  to  the  painter.  Krimmel's  "Burning  of  Masonic 
Hall,  1 8 19"  in  Philadelphia  is  a  fine  illustration  of  his  ability  in  fusing 
distinct  individuals  into  a  mass  that  seems  to  be  in  action.  Fires  were  a 
constant  menace  and  led  to  the  growth  of  the  volunteer  fire  companies 
which  became  such  an  important  social  and  political  institution. 

76  Bingham's  paintings  are  largely  held  in  St.  Louis.  For  reproductions  see  Life  in 
America,  pp.  96-100. 

77  See  Chapter  26. 

78  New  York  Public  Library. 


55o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Practically  every  important  poet,  novelist,  essayist  and  playwright  of 
this  period  dealt  with  the  American  scene.  The  painters  began  a  bit  later, 
although  the  work  of  Ralph  Earl  (1751-1801),  while  largely  in  portrai- 
ture, revealed  an  ability  to  treat  the  American  scene  with  honesty  and 
simplicity.  The  real  pioneer  in  the  field  was  Thomas  Doughty  (1793- 
1856),  a  self-taught  painter  of  Philadelphia.  From  the  eighteen-twenties 
he  painted  both  historic  and  general  sites  along  the  Schuylkill,  Hudson, 
and  Susquehanna  Rivers.  One  of  his  "Landscapes,"  T9  representing  a  house 
on  top  of  a  hill  with  a  pond  in  the  foreground,  reveals  an  intimate  under- 
standing of  the  American  home  as  it  stood  among  its  surroundings,  chosen 
for  their  simple  natural  charm. 

The  interest  in  natural  beauty  was  combined  in  Thomas  Birch  (1779- 
1 85 1 )  with  the  urge  to  paint  such  stirring  marines  as  the  "Battle  of  Lake 
Erie,"  80  the  contests  between  the  Constitution  and  the  Guerriere  81  and 
the  view  of  the  second  and  more  famous  Philadelphia  Water  Works  82  on 
the  banks  of  the  Schuylkill,  which  was  vastly  popular  in  the  engraving  by 
Campbell.  The  Water  Works,  which  were  Philadelphia's  pride,  were 
depicted  many  times  in  that  combination  of  utility  and  beauty  which 
placed  a  steamboat  in  the  foreground. 

Every  important  city  from  Boston  to  San  Francisco  had  its  reproduc- 
tions, which  paralleled  the  fiction  that  dealt  increasingly  with  the  city 
life  as  it  developed.  More  definite  descriptions,  such  as  Cooper  gave  in 
his  Towers  of  Manhattan  or  his  Notions  of  the  Americans  (1828),  which 
spoke  of  Washington's  streets  as  "parallel  to  nothing,"  or  Poe's  "Morning 
on  the  Wissahiccon,"  or  his  letters  from  New  York  City  on  his  arrival 
there  in  1845,  reveal  the  constant  desire  on  the  part  of  writers  and  painters 
to  record  their  impressions  of  the  American  scene.  Even  Dunlap's  A  Trip 
to  Niagara  was  written  to  display  scenery. 

Among  the  more  strictly  landscape  painters,  Thomas  Cole  (1 801- 1848), 
has  been  given  the  honor  of  founding  the  "Hudson  River  School."  83 
Born  in  England,  but  brought  here  in  childhood,  his  first  impressions  were 
of  the  Ohio  frontier,  but  the  Catskills  and  the  White  Mountains  aroused 
him  to  go  to  Philadelphia  and  study  the  collections  there.  He  was  self- 
taught,  not  going  abroad  until  he  was  thirty  years  old,  and  then  being 
disappointed.  But  by  1823  he  had  turned  from  portraits  to  landscapes. 
As  Dunlap  says  in  his  sympathetic  account,  Cole's  method  was  the  per- 
sonal recording  of  Nature— he  studied  every  twig  and,  as  the  season  ad- 
vanced,  he   studied   the    foliage.    His    contrast   between   landscape    and 

79  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

80  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

81  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

82  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania. 

83  The  term  seems  to  have  been  first  given  by  a  critic  in  the  New  York  Tribune  to  a 
group  who  were  mere  provincials  in  his  eyes.  See  Born,  American  Landscape  Painting, 
p.  38. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  551 

historical  painting,  quoted  by  Dunlap,84  is  still  worth  reading.  To  him  a 
landscape  had  an  expression— not  of  passion  but  of  sentiment— one  spirit 
pervading  the  whole. 

Cole  painted,  about  1834,  a  series  of  five  scenes,  "The  Course  of  Em- 
pire." The  first  represents  the  savage  state  of  man,  with  personal  brutality; 
the  second,  the  Pastoral,  where  cultivation  has  commenced;  the  third, 
the  "Consummation  of  Empire,"  depicting  the  height  of  civilization;  the 
fourth,  "Destruction,"  in  which  barbarians  are  attacking  what  looks  like 
a  Roman  city;  the  fifth,  "Desolation,"  where  the  works  of  art  are  again 
dissolving  into  elemental  nature.  In  the  right  background  of  each  picture, 
a  crag  looms  up  and  preserves  at  least  a  symbolic  unity.  The  series,  as 
grouped  together  in  the  New  York  Historical  Society,  are  certainly 
impressive.  This  depiction  of  an  historical-moral  idea  seems  to  annoy  cer- 
tain art  critics  of  Cole,  but  it  is  also  to  be  looked  upon  as  a  poetic  con- 
ception, paralleling  the  sense  of  life  in  landscape  seen  in  the  novels  of 
Cooper  and  the  poetry  of  Longfellow  and  Bryant,  who  delivered  a 
memorial  address  on  Cole. 

This  impulse  was  found  also  in  the  work  of  Asher  Durand  (1796- 1886), 
whose  "Kindred  Spirits,"  85  representing  Bryant  and  Cole,  standing  on  a 
rock  and  viewing  a  waterfall  in  a  setting  of  mountain  landscape,  reflects 
the  mutual  influences  of  literature  and  painting.  Durand  continued  Cole's 
impulse  in  luminous  paintings,  such  as  his  "Imaginary  Landscape" 
(1850).86 

The  influence  of  Poe's  theory  of  poetry  is  seen  clearly  in  the  theory 
of  George  Inness  (1825-94).  "The  purpose  of  the  painter,"  said  Inness, 
"is  simply  to  reproduce  in  other  minds  the  impression  which  a  scene  has 
made  upon  him.  A  work  of  art  does  not  appeal  to  the  intellect.  It  does 
not  appeal  to  the  moral  sense.  Its  aim  is  not  to  instruct,  not  to  edify,  but 
to  awaken  an  emotion."  S7 

While  Inness  reached  his  full  height  of  development  after  the  Civil 
War,  he  had  begun  painting  long  before  he  went  to  Paris  and  came  under 
the  influence  of  Corot.  His  "Lackawanna  Valley"  (1854)  revealed  the 
possibility  of  artistic  treatment  of  the  new  industrial  town.  His  lovely 
"Delaware  Water  Gap"88  (1861)  and  his  magnificent  "Peace  and 
Plenty"  89  (1865),  reveal  a  poet  who  touched  the  American  scene  with 
interpretive  distinction. 

One  of  the  most  democratic  forms  of  art  was  the  panorama.  John 
Bonvard's  picture  of  the  scenery  of  the  Mississippi,  in  the  forties,  estimated 

84  Dunlap,  Arts  of  Design,  Vol.  2,  p.  365, 

85  New  York  Public  Library. 

8  6  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

87  Quoted  by  Peyton  Boswell,  Modern  American  Painting  (1939),  p.  34. 

88  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art.  Inness  painted  more  than  one  scene  of  the 
Delaware  Valley,  one  of  which  was  the  later  "Delaware  Valley"  (1865). 

89  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 


552  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

to  have  been  shown  to  four  hundred  thousand  people  in  the  East 90  and 
to  thousands  in  England,  is  an  example.  It  was  a  showman's  art  and  be- 
came vulgarized,  but  it  may  have  had  an  effect  in  making  the  East  know 
the  West,  thus  helping  to  cement  the  Union.  It  opened  avenues  to  new 
material  and,  later,  in  the  work  of  F.  E.  Church,  attained  splendor.  These 
Mississippi  Panoramas  have  nearly  all  disappeared,  but  four  of  them, 
painted  bv  an  almost  unknown  artist,  J.  J.  Egan,  for  the  illustration  of  the 
discoveries  of  Dr.  M.  W.  Dickeson,  an  archaeologist,  are  in  the  Museum 
of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  They  represent  views  of  the  Rocky 
Mountains,  Lake  Concordia  and  other  scenes  of  Indian  life.91 

It  is  quite  possible,  as  has  been  suggested,92  that  Humboldt's  Kosmos 
(1845),  which  urged  landscape  painters  "to  study  the  topography  of 
large  and  distant  scenes,  to  combine  accuracy  of  detail  with  a  new  impetus 
and  a  high  tone  of  feeling,"  may  have  inspired  artists  like  F.  E.  Church. 
He  had  already  in  the  fifties  painted  the  Natural  Bridge  in  Virginia,  and 
his  superb  "Heart  of  the  Andes"  93  (1859)  may  well  have  been  suggested 
by  Humboldt's  advice.  He  certainly  lived  in  1857  in  the  same  hut  that 
Humboldt  had  occupied  in  Quito.  It  is  an  interesting  example  of  a  rela- 
tion between  an  artistic  and  scientific  impulse.  Certainly  "The  Heart 
of  the  Andes"  inspired  poetry  by  T.  Buchanan  Read  whose  own  paint- 
ings represented  the  continuing  vogue  of  the  "Family  Group,"  an  interest- 
ing social  phenomenon,  which  photography  soon  took  over.  Read's 
"Children  of  Marcus  L.  Ward,"  reproduced  in  Life  in  America,  has  some 
merit,  but  his  reputation  as  a  painter  has  declined,  and  his  poetry  is  re- 
membered now  only  by  "Drifting,"  a  glowing  description  of  the  "Ve- 
suvian  Bay"  and  by  "Sheridan's  Ride"  a  rhetorically  effective  Civil  War 
poem. 

The  close  interrelation  of  writers  and  painters  is  illustrated  in  The 
Home  Book  of  the  Picturesque:  or  American  Scenery,  Art  and  Litera- 
ture (1852).  The  editors  explain  that  it  is  a  definite  attempt  to  rival  the 
volumes  devoted  to  European  scenery.  Irving's  description  of  the  Catskill 
iMountains  reveals  through  his  picture  of  his  journey  up  the  Hudson 
River  as  a  boy,  how  the  legends  of  the  river  were  told  him,  to  lie  fallow 
in  his  memory  until  they  flowered  into  "Rip  Van  Winkle."  Bryant  de- 
scribed the  valley  of  the  Housatonic  River,  where  the  sunsets  are  "too 
glorious  to  be  copied  by  the  pencil."  Cooper  compared  "European  and 
American  Scenery,"  doing  justice  to  both,  but  regretting  that  the  towns 
of  Europe  have  the  advantage  because  the  church  is  the  center  of  the 
picture,  while  in  the  United  States  it  is  so  often  the  tavern!  The  most 

90  Born,  American  Landscape  Painting,  pp.  90-91. 

91  Reproduced  in  Born,  pp.  91-96. 

92  Albert  T.  Gardner,  "Scientific  Sources  of  the  Full-length  Landscape:  1850," 
Bull,  of  the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art  (Oct.  1945). 

Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 


93 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  553 

vivid  chapter  came  from  Willis  in  describing  "The  Highland  Terrace 
Above  West  Point."  Willis  calls  attention  to  the  advantage  of  the 
country,  but  only  when  it  is  near  enough  to  allow  people  to  reach  the 
city  easily.  He  anticipated  a  change  "from  homes  in  town  and  lodgings  in 
the  country  to  homes  in  the  country  and  lodgings  in  town."  Bayard 
Taylor  described  scenery  by  tracing  the  route  of  the  Erie  Railroad,  and 
recalled  the  first  train  which  went  over  the  Cascade  Ravine  Bridge,  when 
the  brakes  failed  and  it  went  down  at  forty  miles  an  hour! 

The  chapters  were  illustrated  by  artists  like  Cole,  Church,  Daniel 
Huntington,  John  F.  Kensett  or  Alden  Weir,  all  competent  and  some  al- 
ready distinguished. 

While  engraving  reproduced  many  of  the  paintings  that  have  been 
discussed,  the  impulse  to  depict  the  American  scene  and  mode  of  living 
was  given  a  democratic  turn  which  multiplied  by  thousands  the  pictorial 
records  of  the  people.  In  1834  Nathaniel  Currier,  who  had  learned  lith- 
ography from  the  Pendletons  in  Boston,  formed  a  firm  which  later  be- 
came Currier  and  Ives,  James  M.  Ives  becoming  a  partner  in  1852.  The 
prints  varied  in  size  from  approximately  three  by  four  inches  to  eighteen 
by  twenty,  and  in  price  from  a  quarter  of  a  dollar  to  three  dollars.  From 
the  beginning  Currier  combined  a  pictorial  sense  with  an  instinct  for 
the  news  value  of  his  prints,  and  the  most  popular  at  the  start  were  those 
depicting  fires,  the  burning  of  the  Planters  Hotel  in  New  Orleans  being 
the  earliest,  in  1835,  and  the  most  striking  perhaps  the  "Awful  Conflagra- 
tion of  the  Steamboat  Lexington"  in  1840  which  appeared  three  days 
after  the  fire,  as  an  "Extra  New  York  Sun,"  and  portrayed  vividly  the 
ship  in  flames  and  the  people  floating  in  the  icy  water.  This  enterprise 
made  Currier  a  national  figure.  Sometimes  the  prints  were  reproductions 
of  well  known  paintings,  like  Neagle's  portrait  of  Dr.  Dewees,  but  mostly 
the  lithographs  were  drawn  by  skilled  artists  and  workmen  whose  names 
are  not  as  significant  for  our  purpose  as  is  the  nature  of  their  subjects. 
But  some  of  the  foremost  artists  like  Edward  Troye  and  Arthur  Fitz- 
william  Tait  worked  for  Currier  and  Ives. 

The  most  important  contributions  were  first,  the  scenes  such  as  "Central 
Park— Winter,"  with  the  skaters  dashing  hither  and  thither,  their  vivid 
costumes  providing  invaluable  evidence  to  the  historian  of  costumes  and 
manners  and  to  the  stage  costumer.  To  balance  this  urban  scene  is  the 
lively  rural  "Early  Winter"  with  the  children  on  the  ice,  or  the  more 
homely  "Preparing  for  Market"  or  "Harvest."  Irving's  home  at  Sunny- 
side  and  the  "Mill  Dam  at  Sleepy  Hollow"  reveal  again  his  great  hold  on 
the  interest  of  his  countrymen.  Through  the  Mississippi  River  prints,  the 
romance  of  that  frontier  was  fully  represented.  The  West  and  the  Gold 
Rush  naturally  brought  out  the  "Covered  Wagon  Print,"  a  glowing  pic- 
ture of  the  Rocky  Mountains;  and  "Niagara  Falls"  gives  a  vivid  picture  of 
that  national  spectacle. 


554  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

An  important  function  of  the  Currier  and  Ives  prints  was  the  publica- 
tion of  about  five  hundred  portraits  of  historical  or  contemporary  public 
characters,  including  the  Presidents.  The  first  five  of  these  were  made 
from  Gilbert  Stuart's  paintings.  Many  episodes  in  Washington's  career 
were  circulated  widely.  Trumbull's  historical  paintings  kept  the  "Declara- 
tion1' and  the  surrenders  of  Cornwallis  and  Burgoyne  before  the  people, 
although  here  the  reproductions  seem  to  increase  the  stiffness  of  some 
of  our  patriots. 

It  has  been  estimated  that  Currier  and  Ives  produced  more  prints  deal- 
ing with  horses  than  the  four  hundred  other  lithographers  put  together. 
Trotting,  running,  or  standing  still,  the  horse  was  a  symbol  of  the  Ameri- 
can desire  for  speed,  which  is  its  heritage  to  the  age  of  the  automobile. 

Transportation  of  all  kinds,  clipper  ships,  steamboats,  steam  ships, 
whalers,  yachts,  schooners,  frigates  and  railroads,  all  were  pictured.  The 
clipper  Comet  in  a  hurricane  off  Bermuda  in  1852  is  a  fine  piece  of  work. 
This  group  of  prints  parallels  Cooper's  great  sea  tales,  and  sprang  from 
the  national  love  for  the  sea  which  carried  our  trade  all  over  the  world, 
until  the  tariff  killed  it.  The  political  cartoons,  while  clever  at  times,  have 
lost  their  appeal  now  because  they  have  to  be  explained  by  the  balloon- 
like devices  issuing  from  the  mouths  of  the  characters.  Poorest  from  the 
point  of  view  of  both  art  and  nature  were  the  sentimental  and  moral 
prints,  fit  companions  of  the  novels  like  Ten  Nights  in  a  Bar  Room  or 
The  Wide  Wide  World. 

The  interrelations  of  painting  and  science  are  illustrated  in  the  work 
of  John  James  Audubon  (1 785-1 851).  Audubon  was  born  at  Aux  Cayes, 
Santo  Domingo,  son  of  a  French  naval  officer  and  a  Creole  woman— but 
he  belongs  to  America  through  his  love  for  her  birds  and  her  woods  and 
fields.  His  work  as  an  artist  has  now  overshadowed  even  his  ornithological 
writings  but  while  Alexander  Wilson  had  anticipated  him,  Audubon's 
discoveries  remain  in  many  instances  unchallenged. 

Audubon  came  to  this  country  in  1803,  settled  near  Philadelphia,  but 
lacking  encouragement  here,  went  to  Scotland  where  he  was  better  ap- 
preciated and  was  elected  to  the  Royal  Society  of  Edinburgh.  He  began 
to  publish  his  drawings  in  London  in  1827,  and  after  his  return  to  Amer- 
ica became  fully  recognized. 

As  a  painter  Audubon  is  distinguished  by  the  dramatic  quality  of  his 
work.  He  drew  his  birds  often  in  the  moment  of  flight  or  attack  upon 
their  victims.  The  famous  "Bald  Eagle"  which  has  become  our  national 
emblem,  stands  firmly  planted  on  its  claws,  holding  its  prey.  The  first 
drawing  showed  the  eagle  with  the  mangled  remains  of  a  smaller  bird, 
but  Audubon  later  substituted  a  fish.  The  progress  of  his  work  through 
the  stages  of  engraving  and  printing,  as  represented  in  the  exhibition  at 
the  New  York  Historical  Society  in  1946,  revealed  also  that  changes 
were  made  at  times  by  engravers.  In  the  drawing  of  the  "American 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  555 

Merganser"  the  dashing  spray  of  watery  background  to  the  swimming 
bird  was  not  in  the  original.  So  caution  has  to  be  exercised  in  assigning 
Audubon's  share.  His  dramatic  quality  aroused  scepticism  among  his 
fellow  scientists,  but  recent  investigations  have  generally  established  the 
accuracy  of  his  observations.  The  "Brown  Thrasher,"  for  example,  was 
questioned  as  to  the  snake  attacking  the  nest,  but  there  is  no  doubt 
Audubon  was  correct.  His  vivid  coloring  also  comes  out  in  the  originals, 
most  strikingly  perhaps  in  the  "Blue  Jay,"  the  "Great  Blue  Heron"  and, 
of  course,  in  the  famous  "Wild  Turkey." 


American  sculpture  developed  later  than  American  painting.  There 
were  practical  difficulties  in  finding  marble  of  the  fineness  of  Carrara  in 
Italy  while  it  was  probably  1847  before  a  bronze  statue  was  cast  in  the 
United  States.  Beauty  of  form  and  feature  were  frowned  upon,  at  least 
in  public,  by  the  Puritan  and  Quaker  traditions  which  confused  the 
sensuous  with  the  sensual.  There  was  also  the  lack  of  opportunity,  or 
occasion  for  the  exercise  of  real  ability  in  the  plastic  arts  in  the  English 
tradition.  That  art  had  delineated  rather  than  fashioned.  In  New  England, 
where  this  tradition  was  strongest,  the  essayist  or  delineator  developed 
rather  than  the  novelist  or  playwright,  who  more  definitely  create  char- 
acters who  are  presumed,  in  the  hands  of  the  finest  artists,  to  shape  their 
own  careers. 

Sculpture  in  America  grew  out  of  the  work  of  wood  cutters  and  stone 
cutters,  men  usually  of  little  regular  education,  but  of  inventive  minds 
and  mechanical  skill.  Like  the  painters,  novelists  and  poets,  the  pride  in 
their  native  land  animated  them  to  make  statues  of  their  national  heroes, 
especially  of  Washington.  They  could  also  sense  a  relation  between  their 
own  democracy  and  the  Graeco-Roman  classicism  in  statuary.  There 
was  a  dignity  about  both.  Thomas  Crawford,  in  1843,  wrote  from  Rome, 
"We  have  surpassed  the  Republics  of  Greece  in  our  political  institutions, 
why  not  in  art?" 

It  was  a  wood  carver,  William  Rush  (1756-1833),  of  Philadelphia,  who 
never  had  time  to  work  in  marble,  who  is  our  first  sculptor.  His  "Nymph 
of  the  Schuylkill"  94  is  graceful  and  was  fashioned  from  life.  It  represents 
a  girl  holding  a  bittern  in  her  right  hand,  steadying  a  wing,  the  left  hand 
grasping  the  feet  of  the  bird.  It  is  more  representative  than  symbolic,  as 
is  his  rather  ugly  old  man  called  "The  Schuylkill  in  Chains."  94  Rush's 
bust  of  himself  represents  a  striking  face,  as  do  his  busts  of  Dr.  Benjamin 
Rush  and  Dr.  Philip  Syng  Physick.95  Rush  was  paralleling,  like  the 
painters,  the  writer's  instinct  toward  biography  of  public  characters  and 
some  imaginative  abstract  conceptions.  He  is  distinctly  best,  however, 

94  Philadelphia  Museum  of  Art. 

95  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 


556  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

when  he  depicted  what  he  saw  before  him,  or  what  he  remembered,  as 
is  the  case  with  his  "Lafayette,"  96  which  Rush  produced  after  seeing  the 
General  in  1824. 

Hezekiah  Augur  (1 791- 1858),  of  Connecticut,  worked  both  in  wood 
and  marble,  his  "Jephthah  and  his  Daughter,"  in  the  latter  medium,  being 
justly  well  known.  More  widely  known  was  John  Frazee  (1790- 1852), 
who  executed  what  may  have  been  the  first  marble  bust  in  this  country, 
in  1824.  This  sculptor  grew  up  in  Rahway,  New  Jersey,  self-taught,  but 
undiscouraged  by  Trumbull's  remark  that  nothing  in  sculpture  would 
be  wanted  in  this  country  for  one  hundred  years.  Following  the  example 
of  the  painters,  he  executed  busts  of  many  of  the  statesmen  of  the  day, 
an  example  being  Daniel  Webster  in  a  Roman  toga;  and  his  self-portrait 
is  a  strong  clear  cut  piece  of  work. 

When  Horatio  Greenough  (1805-52)  went  to  Italy  in  1825,  he  led 
the  movement  toward  foreign  study  and  foreign  residence.  Like  the 
painters,  he  came  under  the  influence  of  a  neoclassic  reaction,  which,  to- 
gether with  his  own  interest  in  his  native  heroes,  resulted  in  his  statue  of 
Washington  in  the  Smithsonian  Institution  in  the  capital,  with  his  body 
unclothed  from  the  waist  up.  His  "Chanting  Cherubs"  met  with  the  in- 
evitable criticism  of  the  nude.  It  was  probably  the  first  marble  group 
executed  by  an  American.  Greenough  was  encouraged  by  Cooper  and 
Allston,  and  Cooper's  account  of  the  way  in  which  he  and  Greenough 
selected  the  cherubs  from  the  painting  of  the  "Madonna  of  the  Throne" 
of  Raphael,  shows  his  understanding  of  the  relations  of  painting  and 
sculpture.97  His  interest  in  the  frontier  is  reflected  in  "The  Rescue,"  a 
vigorous  representation  of  the  Indian  and  the  pioneer,  in  the  east  portico 
of  the  Capitol.  Greenough  thought  out  the  principles  which  came  to 
light  later— those  of  the  functional  artistic  purpose.  Passing  out  of  the 
neoclassical  phase  he  stated  in  his  essay  "Form  and  Function":  9S 

When  I  define  Beauty  as  the  promise  of  Function;  Action  as  the  presence  of 
Function;  Character  as  the  record  of  Function,  I  arbitrarily  divide  that  which 
is  essentially  one.  I  consider  the  phases  through  which  organized  intention 
passes  to  completeness,  as  if  they  were  distinct  entities. 

This  philosophy,  in  slightly  different  form,  has  become  known  as  his 
"Stonecutter's  Creed."  " 

He  not  only  apprehended  but  also  comprehended  the  simplicity  of  the 
Greek.  "He  avoids  small  facts  that  he  may  fasten  your  eye  upon  great 
truth,"— "the  American  builder  by  a  truly  philosophic  investigation  of 
ancient  art  will  learn  of  the  Greeks  to  be  American."— "this  American 

98  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

97  See  Cooper's  letter  to  J.  E.  de  Ray  from  Florence,  May  25,  1829,  Correspondence, 
ed.  J.  F.  Cooper  (1922),  Vol.  1,  p.  167. 

98  Fd.  Harold  A.  Small,  p.  71.  Essay  on  "Relative  and  Independent  Beauty." 
<J9  See  A.  T.  Gardner,  Yankee  Stone  Cutters  (1945),  p.  42. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  557 

people  is  the  advanced  guard  of  humanity;  because  it  is  one  vast  inter- 
rogation." He  was  a  true  liberal  conservative.  "Society,"  he  said,  "always 
reserves  a  certain  number  of  minds  unpoisoned  by  the  vogue  of  the 
hour."  Greenough's  critical  principles  are  of  quite  as  much  importance 
as  his  sculpture,  and  his  epigrammatic  style  makes  his  essays  truly  litera- 
ture.100 

The  same  influences  shaped  the  work  of  Hiram  Powers  (1805-73), 
born  in  Woodstock,  Vermont,  who  began  his  work  in  Washington  about 
1834,  by  modeling  heads  of  statesmen  like  Jackson  and  Webster.  In  1837, 
he  went  to  Florence,  where  he  remained  until  his  death.  His  "Greek 
Slave,"  in  1843,  made  him  famous  and  disturbed  the  moral  equanimity 
of  the  United  States.  His  "Proserpine"  is  rather  cold  in  its  beauty.  Neither 
slave  nor  goddess  seems  to  be  disturbed  by  any  emotion.  "California"  101 
(1858),  a  nude  figure  symbolising  the  new  state,  is  not  by  any  means 
unattractive. 

One  interesting  interrelation  of  fiction  and  sculpture  is  found  in  Haw- 
thorne's The  Marble  Faun  (i860)  and  his  Italian  Note-Books,  written  in 
manuscript  in  1858,  in  his  descriptions  of  the  studios  of  American  sculptors 
and  painters  he  visited.  His  picture  of  Powers  is  especially  enlightening 
and  his  description  of  the  latter's  statue  of  Webster,  now  standing  in 
front  of  the  State  House  in  Boston,  shows  the  advance  made  in  realism: 

Not  an  inch  of  the  statue  but  is  Webster;— He  [Powers]  has  felt  that  a  man's 
actual  clothes  are  as  much  a  part  of  him  as  his  flesh,  and  I  respect  him  for 
disdaining  to  shirk  the  difficulty  by  throwing  the  meanness  of  a  cloak  over  it, 
and  for  recognizing  the  folly  of  masquerading  our  Yankee  statesmen  in  a 
Roman  toga  and  the  indecorousness  of  presenting  him  as  a  brassy  nudity.102 

Hawthorne's  The  Marble  Faun  is  one  of  the  best  illustrations  of  the 
effect  of  one  art  upon  another.  The  central  idea  and  the  character  of 
Donatello  were  suggested  by  the  Faun  of  Praxiteles.103  Indeed,  the  main 
American  characters,  Kenyon,  Miriam  and  Hilda  are  artists,  and  Haw- 
thorne expresses  his  views  through  Kenyon,  who  represented  more  than 
one  sculptor.  In  Chapter  XIII  of  The  Marble  Faun,  "A  Sculptor's  Studio," 
Hawthorne  weaves  his  criticisms  of  Greenough,  Crawford,  Powers,  and 
Harriet  Hosmer  into  a  composite  of  his  opinions  about  the  processes  of 
creative  sculpture.  In  Chapter  XV,  Hawthorne  described  the  company 
of  painters  and  sculptors  that  he  met  either  at  Greenough's  or  Story's 
homes.  He  believed  that  "American  art  is  much  better  represented  at 

100  See  especially  the  essays  in  the  Memorial  of  Horatio  Greenough,  collected  by 
T.  T.  Tugkerman  (1853)  and  re-edited,  with  additions  and  omissions,  by  H.  A.  Small 
(Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles,  1947)  as  Form  and  Function:  Remarks  on  Art  by  Horatio 
Greenough. 

101  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

102  French  and  Italian  Note-Books,  p.  428. 

103  French  and  Italian  Note-Books,  pp.  172-173. 


558  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Rome  in  the  pictorial  than  in  the  sculpturesque  department."  Yet  he  also 
insisted  that 

a  sculptor . . .  should  be  even  more  indispensably  a  poet  than  those  who  deal 
in  measured  verse  and  rhyme.  His  material,  or  instrument,  which  serves  him 
in  the  stead  of  shifting  and  transitory  language,  is  a  pure,  white,  undecaying 
substance.  It  insures  immortality  to  whatever  is  wrought  in  it,  and  therefore 
makes  it  a  religious  obligation  to  commit  no  idea  to  its  mighty  guardianship, 
save  such  as  may  repay  the  marble  for  its  faithful  care,  its  incorruptible  fidelity, 
by  warming  it  with  an  ethereal  life.  Under  this  aspect,  marble  assumes  a  sacred 
character;  and  no  man  should  dare  to  touch  it  unless  he  feels  within  himself 
a  certain  consecration  and  a  priesthood,  the  only  evidence  of  which,  for  the 
public  eye,  will  be  the  high  treatment  of  heroic  subjects,  or  the  delicate 
evolution  of  spiritual,  through  material  beauty. 

In  "Drowne's  Wooden  Image,"  included  in  Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse, 
Hawthorne  introduces  Copley  as  a  character  who  discerns  in  the  wooden 
figurehead  of  the  young  sculptor  a  spark  of  genius.  It  was  the  love  of 
the  young  Portuguese  girl  who  had  been  his  model  which  inspired 
Drowne  to  carve  a  masterpiece. 

Thomas  Crawford  (1814-57)  had  more  imagination  than  Powers  and 
his  "Orpheus"  or  his  "Freedom"  are  much  more  alive  than  the  "Greek 
Slave."  The  figures  on  the  bronze  doors  of  the  Capitol  at  Washington, 
although  he  livec1,  hardly  long  enough  to  do  more  than  the  preliminary 
planning,  reflect  his  knowledge  of  our  history  and  his  interest  in  native 
themes.  While  he  stayed  abroad  he  remained  like  his  son,  Marion  Craw- 
ford, an  American  in  his  attitude,  and  his  position  has  generally  been 
accepted  as  a  "notable  pioneer  among  our  native  sculpture."  104  Judging 
from  some  of  his  fanciful  pieces,  like  his  "Babes  in  the  Wood"  or  his 
"Dying  Indian  Maiden,"  105  Crawford  was  best  when  he  had  a  real  sub- 
ject like  "James  Otis"  to  inspire  him.106 

The  romantic-idealistic  note  struck  in  our  literature  during  this  period 
affected  the  sculpture  as  it  did  the  painting.  The  "White  Captive"  107 
(1859),  by  Erastus  D.  Palmer  (1817-1904),  made  a  stir  which  its  beauty 
justified,  but  the  calm  countenance  of  the  girl  who  must  be  facing 
torture  or  even  death,  reveals  how  conventional  sculpture  still  was. 
Palmer's  ideal  heads,  like  the  charming  "Spring"  108  and  "The  Indian 
Girl"  109  whose  face  is  much  more  expressive  than  the  usual  statue,  were 
more  animated  than  his  "White  Captive."  Lorado  Taft 11U  makes  a  strong 
plea  for  the  artist  who  makes  sculpture  a  means  of  bringing  a  sense  of 

104  Lorado  Taft,  History  of  American  Sculpture  (1930),  p.  91. 

105  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

106  Mount  Auburn  Cemetery,  Cambridge,  according  to  Taft,  p.  76. 

107  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

108  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts. 

109  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 

110  History  of  American  Sculpture,  p.  141. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  559 

beauty  to  thousands.  It  was,  in  a  way,  an  art  akin  to  that  of  Whittier,  for 
Palmer  represents  a  more  definitely  American  group  of  sculptors,  since 
he  did  not  go  to  Italy  until  1873. 

Thomas  Ball  ( 18 19- 191 1)  belongs  also  to  this  more  definitely  native 
inspiration;  probably  the  statue  of  Washington  and  his  "Emancipation," 
in  Lincoln  Park,  Washington,  with  Lincoln  and  the  freed  slave,  show 
how  sculpture  was  representing  history.  He  had  gone  to  Florence  but 
returned  to  Boston  in  1856.  His  bust  of  Daniel  Webster111  (1868)  has 
some  power. 

Washington  continued  to  be  the  subject  of  sculpture.  One  of  the  best 
of  his  equestrian  statues  by  Henry  Kirke  Brown  (1814-86)  of  Massa- 
chusetts, in  Union  Square,  New  York  City,  is  important  because  it  con- 
notes a  group  of  men  whom  he  is  commanding  instead  of  being  conceived 
simply  as  an  individual.  Action  continued  to  be  the  aim  of  such  sculptors 
as  Clark  Mills  (1815-83)  whose  "Jackson"  in  Washington,  with  his  horse 
standing  on  his  hind  legs,  was  the  first  American  equestrian  statue. 

Like  Allston,  W.  W.  Story  (1819-95)  represents  the  combination  of 
poet  and  plastic  artist.  He  was  born  in  Salem,  and  studied  law  but  wrote 
about  it  rather  than  practiced  it.  His  verse  came  before  his  sculpture  in 
1847  and  he  went  to  Rome  to  study  in  1848.  He  returned  to  Boston  in 
1850,  wrote  a  life  of  his  father,  and  sought  "Rome  once  more  in  1851. 
His  poetry  is  romantic  and  idealistic,  is  reminiscent  of  Longfellow  and 
Browning,  and  reveals  a  love  of  poetry  more  than  any  great  accomplish- 
ment. But  it  shares  with  his  sculpture  a  celebration  of  things  he  knew  or 
loved.  "The  Marchese  Costello  Gives  his  Views  on  Italy"  is  better  than 
the  usual  American  picture  of  a  Latin  civilization,  and  "In  St.  Peter's" 
corresponds  to  Lowell's  prose  picture  of  the  poetry  of  St.  Peter's.  Story's 
Essays  on  Art  and  Letters  of  a  later  period  show  that  he  was  a  good 
scholar,  but  that  he  is  probably  best  when  he  writes  about  things  and 
ideas  rather  than  when  he  creates  them.  His  sculpture  represented  classi- 
cal or  Biblical  subjects  and  he  also  made  statues  of  leading  American 
statesmen.  Hawthorne  thought  very  highly  of  Story's  "Cleopatra,"  which 
he  saw,  in  1858,  in  the  clay  stage.  In  his  Italian  Note-Books  he  praises  it 
directly  and,  in  The  Marble  Faun,  where  he  attributes  it  to  Kenyon,  he 
indulges  in  a  surprising  description  culminating  in  "all  Cleopatra-fierce, 
voluptuous,  passionate,  tender,  wicked,  terrible,  and  full  of  poisonous  and 
rapturous  enchantment."  One  who  views  the  marble  effigy  in  the  Metro- 
politan Museum  today  wonders  how  Hawthorne  saw  all  these  qualities 
in  the  brooding,  impassive  figure.  Story's  poem  "Cleopatra"  has  in  it 
much  more  of  the  fiery,  sensual  nature  of  the  Egyptian  Queen.  In  the 
same  museum,  his  "Medea,"  with  her  strange  Victorian  garments  and 
"Salome,"  half  nude,  have  very  little  expression;  they  belong  also  to 
Story's  later  period.  Story's  "Jerusalem  Weeping  for  her  Children,"  in 

111  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 


56o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  front  hall  of  the  Pennsylvania  Academy,  is  a  dignified  statue— looking 
or  staring  out  and  not  actually  weeping. 

Story  was  so  disheartened  in  1862  by  lack  of  customers  that  he  was 
about  to  return  to  law  when  the  Roman  Government  asked  permission  to 
include  "Cleopatra"  and  "Hero"  in  their  section  of  the  London  Universal 
Exposition.  They  attracted  favorable  comment  and  Story  was  offered 
/  3000  for  them  so  that  he  continued  his  career,112 

Story's  apartment  in  the  Porta  Pinciana  and  later  in  the  Barberini 
Palace  was  the  center  where  gathered  American  and  European  artists  of 
all  kinds.  In  a  way  it  was  a  pioneering  of  another  sort— a  return  to  the 
frontier  of  another  culture,  and  it  had  its  place  no  doubt  in  the  enrich- 
ment of  American  ideas. 

Crawford's  Washington  monument  at  Richmond,  left  uncompleted  at 
his  death,  was  finished  by  another  romantic-idealistic  sculptor,  Randolph 
Rogers  (1825-92)  of  Michigan,  who  also  made  the  bronze  doors  for  the 
Senate  entrance  to  the  Capitol.  These  are  an  elaborate  series  of  events  in 
the  career  of  Columbus,  which  he  probably  owed  to  Irving  and  Prescott. 
Rogers  went  to  Italy  in  1848,  returned  for  five  years,  but  died  in  Rome. 
His  "Wounded  Indian,"  113  crouching  beneath  the  horse  of  a  fellow 
tribesman,  as  the  latter  delivers  a  Parthian  shot,  is  a  striking  bronze,  and 
his  "Nydia,"  114  the  blind  girl  bending  forward  in  the  act  of  listening,  is 
quite  alive. 

Sculpture,  like  painting,  felt  the  urge  toward  democracy.  In  the  work 
of  John  Rogers  (1 829-1904)  the  life  of  the  time  was  represented  in 
figures  which  became  famous  as  the  "Rogers  Groups."  His  largest  achieve- 
ment lies  beyond  this  period,  into  the  Civil  War  and  later,  but  he  had 
begun  in  the  fifties,  such  a  group  as  "Checkers  at  the  Farm"  creating  a 
mild  sensation  when  it  was  exhibited  in  Chicago  in  1859.  He  had  just 
come  back  from  Europe  where  the  classic  school  seems  to  have  made 
little  impression  on  him,  and  his  art  was  purely  American.  His  groups 
were  reproduced  in  a  peculiar  composition,  in  moulds  made  over  bronze 
models,  and  one  democratic  element  lay  in  their  comparative  cheapness, 
and  wide  distribution.  His  groups  appealed  to  one  great  human  faculty, 
that  of  recognition,  like  the  Currier  and  Ives  prints.  They  represented 
homely  native  people,  with  sympathy  and  by  no  means  inconsiderable 
skill.  That  his  choice  of  this  form  of  art  was  his  own  is  shown  by  his 
spirited  equestrian  statue  of  General  Reynolds  in  City  Hall  Square  in 
Philadelphia. 


112  Henry  James,   William   Wetmore  Story  and  His  Friends   (1903),  Vol.   1,  pp. 
32-33,  quoting  from  an  autobiographical  account. 
1  ia  .Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 
114  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  561 

In  architecture  an  American  colonial  style  had  been  developed,  and 
after  the  Revolution  the  continued  dependence  upon  English  models  was 
natural.  The  classical  influence  in  other  arts  was  shared  by  architecture. 
The  Roman  revival  brought  about  a  dignity  and  unity  of  form  in  keeping 
with  the  American  conception  of  Roman  republican  life,  which  led  to 
the  choice  of  the  name  "Senate"  for  our  upper  house.  Our  own  republican 
tendencies  were  strengthened  by  comparison  with  the  greatness  of  the 
Roman  and  Greek  republics,  so  that  when  large  public  projects  like  the 
plans  for  the  City  of  Washington,  or  for  the  Capitol  and  other  buildings, 
were  made,  it  is  easy  to  see  the  great  influence  of  classical  architecture 
upon  them.  In  the  plan  of  the  City  of  Washington,  which  was  the  work 
of  Major  Pierre  L'Enfant,  a  French  influence  is  shown  merging  with  the 
classical. 

One  of  the  strongest  reasons  for  the  classical  influence  lay  in  the  sup- 
port of  Thomas  Jefferson.  He  had  been  inspired  by  his  stay  in  France 
to  know  and  admire  it,  and  on  his  return  he  planned  his  residence  at 
Monticello,  the  State  Capitol  at  Richmond,  and  best  of  all  the  University 
of  Virginia. 

The  Greek  Revival,  which  resulted  in  the  lofty  pillars  of  bank  build- 
ings has  been  criticized  for  its  nonfunctional  character  and  its  resultant 
artificiality.  There  were  objections  even  in  the  day  of  its  height.  John 
Neal,  in  his  novel,  Randolph  (1823),  said  of  the  Pennsylvania  Bank  in 
Philadelphia:  "It  wants  that  which  gives  a  charm  to  everything  and 
without  which  the  purest  and  most  beautiful  creations  of  genius  are  base 
and  inefficient,— it  wants  suitableness."  Emerson,  who  was  aware  of  the 
classic  Greek  influence  in  his  time,  was  wiser.  In  the  essay  on  "History" 
he  said:  "Our  admiration  of  the  antique  is  not  admiration  of  the  old,  but 
of  the  natural.  Men  are  interested  in  Greek  art  because  every  man  passes 
through  a  Greek  age."  The  wood  carvers  simplified  the  Greek  forms  to 
suit  an  American  need,  and  carried  out  Emerson's  idea.  And  of  the  Gothic 
cathedral,  Emerson  wrote:  "The  mountain  of  granite  blooms  into  an 
eternal  flower,  with  the  lightness  and  delicate  finish  as  well  as  the  aerial 
proportions  and  perspective  of  vegetable  beauty."  Certainly  no  one  who 
loves  beauty  can  regret  the  classical  influence  that  created  the  campus 
of  "Jefferson's  University."  Jefferson  used  Roman  influence  creatively, 
just  as  Emerson  did  Plato's  philosophy.  The  same  impulse  gave  Poe,  who 
had  studied  at  the  University  of  Virginia,  the  inspiration  for  "To  Helen," 
one  of  the  most  perfect  of  lyrics. 

Among  our  major  writers,  Poe  expressed  in  most  elaborate  detail  his 
theories  concerning  landscape  architecture.  In  his  stories,  "The  Land- 
scape Garden,"  its  expansion,  "The  Domain  of  Arnheim,"  and  "Landor's 
Cottage,"  he  developed  the  conception  of  natural  landscape  rearranged 
by  art  to  present  an  enhanced  beauty.  This  landscape,  while  artificial,  he 
defended  through  "its  show  of  order  and  design,"  and  the  total  result 


562  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

was  ornate  and  luxurious.  "Arnheim"  was  semi-Gothic  and  semi-Saracenic 
in  its  style  but  "Landor's  Cottage"  was  much  simpler,  and  more  in  accord 
with  a  natural  homelike  building,  although  the  pillars  "had  the  air"  of 
supporting  roofs  which,  in  reality,  did  not  need  it. 

Hawthorne's  choice  of  a  house  for  his  novel,  The  House  of  the  Seven 
Gables,  was  based  on  no  especial  architectural  interest.  He  chose  an  old 
house  on  Turner  Street,  Salem,  which,  through  various  alterations,  had 
acquired  seven  gables,  but  this  particular  house  has  little  to  do  with  the 
story.  In  his  foreign  travel  he  seemed  to  understand  the  architecture 
better  than  the  painting.  In  the  description  of  the  Cathedral  of  Siena,  he 
admired  the  Gothic  quality:  "A  majesty  and  a  minuteness,  neither  inter- 
fering with  the  other,  each  assisting  the  other— that  is  what  I  love  in 
Gothic  architecture."  St.  Peter's  grows  upon  him  "in  magnitude  and 
beauty." 

His  genius  was  distinctly  American,  as  were  his  ancestry  and  environ- 
ment. He  even  carried  his  Americanism  so  far  as  to  rejoice  in  our  custom 
of  tearing  down  old  buildings  and  constantly  moving  on.  Speaking  of 
English  continuity  of  life,  he  said: 

Better  than  this  is  the  lot  of  our  restless  countrymen,  whose  modern  instinct 
bids  them  tend  always  towards  "fresh  woods  and  pastures  new."  Rather  than 
such  monotony  of  sluggish  ages,  loitering  in  a  village  green,  toiling  in 
hereditary  fields,  listening  to  the  parson's  drone  lengthened  through  centuries 
in  the  gray  Norman  Church,  let  us  welcome  whatever  change  may  come,— 
change  of  place,  social  customs,  political  institutions,  modes  of  worship,— 
trusting  that  if  all  present  things  vanish,  they  will  but  make  room  for  better 
systems,  and  for  a  higher  type  of  man,  to  clothe  his  life  in  them  and  to  fling 
them  off  in  turn.115 

The  most  sympathetic  understanding  by  a  poet  of  the  relations  of  the 
plastic  arts  is  revealed  in  Longfellow's  dramatic  poem,  "Michael  Angelo," 
begun  in  1850  but  not  completed,  although  he  was  occupied  with  it 
during  the  last  ten  years  of  his  life.  Through  Michael  Angelo  he  speaks: 

Truly,  as  you  say 
Sculpture    is   more   than    painting.    It   is    greater 
To  raise  the  dead  to  life  than  to  create 
Phantoms  that  seem  to  live.  The  most  majestic 
Of  the  three  sister  arts  is  that  which  builds; 
The  eldest  of  them  all,  to  whom  the  others 
Are  but  the  handmaids  and  the  servitors, 
Being  but  imitation,  not  creation. 
Henceforth  I  dedicate  myself  to  her. 

Yet  his  understanding  of  sculpture  is  finely  expressed: 
118  "Leamington  Spa,"  in  Our  Old  Home,  p.  79. 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  563 

Some  have  eyes 
That  see  not:  but  in  every  block  of  marble 
I  see  a  statue,— see  it  as  distinctly 
As  if  it  stood  before  me  shaped  and  perfect 
In  attitude  and  action.  I  have  only 
To  hew  away  the  stone  walls  that  imprison 
The  lovely  apparition,  and  reveal  it 
To  other  eyes 116 

It  is  that  love  of  the  concrete  in  his  poetry  that  has  made  it  live  uni- 
versally. 

It  was  in  Lowell's  prose  essays,  "Leaves  from  my  Journal  in  Italy" 
(1854),  that  he  wrote  of  the  poetry  of  St.  Peter's,  inspired  by  the  great 
church  to  one  of  his  most  eloquent  tributes  from  a  New  England 
Puritan  to  the  "only  poet  among  the  churches."  Yet  he  preferred  a 
Gothic  cathedral  to  any  church  he  saw  in  Italy  and  he  says  little 
about  the  painting  or  sculpture.  He  differed  with  Emerson  concerning 
the  naturalness  of  Greek  art.  "Every  attempt  at  reproducing  a  bygone 
excellence,  by  external  imitation  of  it,  has  resulted  in  producing  the 
artificial  and  not  the  artistic,"  he  believed.  He  failed  to  see  that  there  may 
be  inspiration  as  well  as  imitation  from  the  study  of  a  great  artistic  past. 


The  most  significant  work  in  the  music  of  this  period  was  done  in  the 
field  of  songs  and  ballads.  The  collection  of  these  songs  was  not  made 
until  about  1870,  but  native  folk  ballads  had  begun  to  appear  as  early  as 
Revolutionary  days.  From  the  very  nature  of  their  origin,  the  names  of 
their  authors  have  usually  been  lost,  and  the  dates  of  original  composi- 
tion are  unknown.  In  fact,  the  folk  ballad  was  not  born,  but  has  grown 
throughout  the  years,  and  even  the  words  and  the  music  belong  to  no 
fixed  or  constant  pattern.  The  words  vary  w7ith  the  place  and  time,  and 
a  ballad  may  be  found  among  the  lumberjacks  of  Aiaine  or  the  Southern 
Appalachian  mountaineers  of  Kentucky  or  Tennessee  or  the  cowboys  of 
the  Southwest,  with  different  words  and  different  music,  yet  going  back 
to  the  same  generic  root.  The  source  may  often  be  foreign,  for  the  races 
who  settled  America  brought  their  songs  with  them,  and  strange  versions 
of  old  English  ballads  like  "Barbara  Allen"  occur,  while  such  a  famous 
song  as  "Ol  Zip  Coon"  seems  to  have  come  from  an  old  Irish  harvesting 
song,  "The  Old  Rose  Tree."  Even  when  a  date  has  been  assigned  to  a 
ballad  like  "The  Dying  Californian,"  found  in  a  manuscript  book  of 
1856,  this  supposed  lament  of  a  Forty-niner  is  clearly  a  paraphrase  of 

116  This  verse  of  Longfellow's  is  a  free  translation  of  Michael  Angelo's  sonnet 
beginning: 

Non  ha  l'ottimo  artista  alcun  concetto, 
which  Longfellow  had  published  in  Keramos  in  1878. 


564  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

W.  H.  Lytle's  poem,  "Antony  and  Cleopatra."  "I  am  dying,  Egypt, 
dying"  can  so  easily  be  changed  to  "I  am  dying,  brother,  dying."  "The 
Dying  Ranger,"  although  it  contains  references  to  Texas,  is  adapted  from 
the  well  known  ballad  by  Mrs.  Norton,  "Bingen  on  the  Rhine."  Indeed 
the  "cowboy  songs,"  which  have  been  so  often  exploited,  have  in  reality 
less  of  the  real  folk  flavor  or  community  feeling  than  several  of  the  other 
groups.  There  is  not  very  often  the  simplicity  and  directness  that  come 
from  ballads  worn  down  by  time.  The  Forty-niners  and  the  cowboys 
were  a  society  reverting  to  primitive  conditions  rather  than  one  growing 
from  them.  It  was  a  primitive  society  made  up  of  unprimitive  elements. 
There  is  therefore  often  an  artificiality  about  these  ballads  and  a  distorting 
even  of  facts  as  in  the  "Mustang  Gray"  ballads  where  a  treacherous 
desperado  who  shot  unarmed  men  is  built  up  to  be  a  hero.  Lomax,  an  ex- 
perienced collector  of  cowboy  ballads,  acknowledges  that  folk  songs,  as 
he  edited  them,  are  written  or  composed  by  men  who  prefer  to  take  an 
old  song  and  change  the  wording  slightly,  to  fit  an  audience,  which 
therefore  becomes  a  part  of  the  creation.  This,  he  believes,  "is  a  demo- 
cratic art."  The  Mormon  ballads  are  not  conceived  by  Mormons  but  are 
satires  directed  against  them.  The  ballads  and  songs  of  the  Spanish  South- 
west coming  down  through  centuries  are  more  truly  of  the  folk.  Any- 
one, therefore,  who  insists  upon  purely  American  origin  for  the  folklore 
ballads  of  this  country  is  on  dangerous  ground,  but  their  importance  does 
not  rest  upon  their  literary  or  musical  merit.  They  are  part  of  the  impulse 
to  represent  American  life,  original  or  assimilated,  with  sincerity.  Not- 
withstanding the  limitations  indicated  above,  they  are  part  of  the  heart 
of  America,  for  in  them,  in  simple,  vital  terms,  are  expressed  the  hopes, 
the  dreams,  the  longings,  the  joys,  the  sorrows,  the  humor,  the  faith,  the 
patriotism  and  the  everyday  experiences  of  the  people. 

Among  the  best  are  those  songs  which  struck  a  national  note.  "Jeffer- 
son and  Liberty,"  which  may  have  been  inspired  by  the  Alien  and  Sedi- 
tion Laws,  is  a  striking  example.  Work  songs  of  all  kinds  have  a  definite 
value;  "chanty"  ballads  of  the  sea  have  a  part  in  the  history  of  a  seagoing 
nation.  Among  pioneering  songs,  occasionally  there  arises  a  poignant 
lament  for  loneliness,  like  "Poor  Wayfaring  Stranger,"  dating  at  least 
from  1830. 

One  of  the  most  appealing  body  of  folk  songs  is  that  emanating  from 
the  Negro.  Volumes  have  been  written  about  these  songs,  particularly 
about  the  "Negro  Spiritual,"  and  the  great  interest  they  have  aroused 
rises  first,  because  of  the  interweaving  of  the  religious  appeal  with  the 
daily  work  of  the  Negro  slave;  second,  because  of  the  stirring  musical 
accompaniment,  with  its  primitive  rhythm.  One  distinction  between  the 
work  songs  of  the  white  man  and  the  Negro  lies  in  the  fact  that  while 
the  songs  of  the  boatman,  the  farmer,  the  cowboy  and  the  peddler  were 
made  by  men  who  could  go  where  they  pleased— the  real  primitive  Negro 


LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS  565 

songs  have  no  such  flavor— the  singers  are  tied  to  the  soil  and  they  find 
their  hope  of  release  in  the  journey  to  another  life.  Or,  if  they  run  away, 
it  is  to  imminent  danger,  one  of  the  extant  Negro  songs  from  slavery 
days,  "Link  O'Day,"  revealing  the  tragedy  of  the  involuntary  exile. 

Interesting  and  often  haunting  as  these  songs  of  the  Negro  are,  the 
best  interpretation  of  his  emotions  was  made  by  an  individual  and  a  white 
man.  For  a  long  time,  the  songs  of  Stephen  Collins  Foster  (1826-64), 
were  neglected  by  technical  critics  of  music,  but  his  work  has  now  been 
recognized  as  one  of  those  rare  combinations  of  literary  and  musical  crea- 
tion that  the  people  will  not  let  die.  Though  they  were  made  popular  by 
music  hall  singers,  they  hold  their  own  by  the  right  of  genius.  Anyone 
who  dismisses  them  as  "sentimental"  has  not  heard  them  sung  properly. 
In  1893,  at  the  Columbian  Exposition,  the  writer  heard  a  Negro  troupe 
which  had  climbed  on  an  empty  band-stand  sing  "My  Old  Kentucky 
Home,"  without  any  thought  of  an  audience,  just  for  the  sheer  joy  of 
singing  it.  There  was  no  musical  accompaniment— yet  the  words  sounded 
like  a  prayer  wrung  out  of  the  agony  and  the  hope  of  a  race.  It  was  be- 
cause Foster  interpreted  so  well  the  longings  of  a  primitive  people  that 
he  forms  a  link  with  the  creators  of  a  communal  music,  whose  names,  if 
ever  known,  are  long  forgotten.  Foster  was  not  limited,  of  course,  to 
Negro  themes.  In  1854,  a  day  of  saccharine  love  ballads,  his  "Jeanie  with 
the  Light  Brown  Hair"  has  a  flavor  of  simplicity  and  tenderness  that  it 
shares  with  "Annie  Laurie." 

The  folk  songs  in  America  have  been  collected  extensively  in  recent 
times.  The  Library  of  Congress  has,  according  to  latest  reports,  about 
40,000  recordings  of  native  songs.117  The  folk  songs  of  New  Mexico 
and  California,  coming  down  through  centuries  of  Spanish  speaking 
peoples,  and  the  Creole  songs  of  Louisiana,  would  demand  separate  treat- 
ment. They  belong,  however,  truly  to  America.  Songs  have  been  in- 
corporated into  the  remarkable  survivals  of  folk  drama  in  the  Southwest, 
still  given  by  descendants  of  the  Spanish  settlers  and  of  Indian  natives. 
The  Spanish  American  folk  songs  seem  more  indigenous  than  those  in 
English.  Few  go  back  to  Spain  itself  and  there  is  among  many  of  the 
songs  an  Indian  influence.  Customs  of  courtship  and  marriage,  often  based 
on  such  preliminary  trials  of  the  lover  as  the  conducta,  form  the  most 
popular  group,  while  drinking  and  work  songs  are  few.118  Many  of  the 
songs  are  in  the  old  Spanish  coplas— but  these  are  modified  by  native  in- 
fluence. They  are  usually  sung  to  the  guitar  but  the  piano  or  the  mouth 
organ  often  provide  the  accompaniment.  There  is  the  natural  union  of 
song  and  dance. 

117  Letter  to  the  present  writer  from  Harold  Spivake,  chief  of  the  Music  Division, 
1949. 

118  Spanish  American  Folksongs,  collected  by  Eleanor  Hague.  American  Folklore 
Society  (Lancaster,  Pa.,  and  New  York,  191 7). 


566  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Many  of  the  poems  or  stories  written  by  Irving,  Longfellow,  Poe, 
Hawthorne  or  Whitman  have  been  made  the  basis  of  symphonic  composi- 
tions. It  is  true  that  these  were  not  created  until  modern  times,  but  the 
very  fact  that  recent  composers  turned  to  the  literature  of  the  earlier 
period  for  material  is  significant.  Rip  Van  Winkle,  The  Legend  of  Sleepy 
H oil low  and  The  Alhambra  were  the  favorites  among  Irving's  work,  but 
Dudley  Buck  wrote  a  cantata  on  the  Life  and  Voyages  of  Columbus,  an 
unusual  example  of  biography  as  inspiration  for  music.  An  opera  on  Rip 
Van  Winkle  was  produced  in  New  York  as  early  as  1855.  "The  Raven," 
"Israfel,"  "The  City  in  the  Sea,"  "The  Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher," 
"The  Pit  and  the  Pendulum"  and  "The  Gold  Bug"  have  been  the  favorites 
among  Poe's  works  for  musical  setting— for  the  mood  quite  as  well  as  the 
words.  Longfellow's  Hiauoatha,  especially  the  Ojibway  Songs  and  Hia- 
watha's Farewell,  "The  Skeleton  in  Armor"  and  "The  Wreck  of  the 
Hesperus"  have  proved  that  the  essentially  harmonious  verse  of  Long- 
fellow has  attracted  composers.  "The  Building  of  the  Ship"  was  set  to 
music  and  sung  at  a  great  musical  festival  at  Leeds,  England  with  signal 
success,  according  to  a  letter  from  Lord  Houghton  to  Longfellow.  Haw- 
thorne's story  of  "The  Aiaypole  of  Merry  Mount"  has  been  made  the 
setting  for  three  operas,  and  Walter  Damrosch  selected  The  Scarlet 
Letter  for  musical  setting.  A  daring  attempt  to  represent,  through  a 
sonata  with  four  movements,  the  spirit  of  Transcendentalism  of  Emerson, 
Hawthorne,  the  Alcotts  and  Thoreau,  seems  to  have  indicated  the  limits 
of  such  efforts,  for  a  printed  explanation  was  required!  119 

119  See  Claire  McGlenchee,  "American  Literature  in  American  Music,"  Music 
Quarterly,  Vol.  31   (Jan.,  1945),  pp.  101-119. 


PART  III 


The  Later  Nineteenth  Century 


BY 


CLARENCE  GOHDES 


Chapter  29 


THE  AGE  OF 
THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE 

The  attack  on  Fort  Sumter  and  the  events  to  which  it  gave  rise  quickly 
brought  on  a  busy  flurry  of  writing  significant  of  little  except  the  tension 
of  the  times,  and  many  an  author  of  merit  was  befuddled  and  distracted. 
Even  the  recluse  Hawthorne,  toiling  unsuccessfully  to  finish  another  ro- 
mance, was  beguiled  into  writing  "Chiefly  about  War  Matters,"  and 
in  1864  he  dropped  his  weary  pen  forever.  Emerson's  lectures  were  soon 
so  reduced  in  number  that  he  was  in  economic  distress;  Holmes  and  Long- 
fellow, with  countless  others,  were  agonized  over  the  fate  of  relatives 
who  were  soldiers;  and  several  promising  young  writers,  such  as  Fitz- 
James  O'Brien  and  Theodore  Winthrop,  lost  their  lives  on  the  battlefield. 
Sidney  Lanier  was  permanently  enfeebled  in  health  as  a  result  of  imprison- 
ment. Like  the  Abolitionist  Whittier,  most  of  the  Southern  men  of  letters 
felt  the  clutch  of  poverty.  The  wealthiest  of  them,  Simms,  cut  ofT  from  his 
New  York  publishers,  found  an  outlet  for  literary  energies  by  writing  for 
South  Carolina  newspapers  and  cursed  the  army  of  Sherman  which  car- 
ried off  thirty-one  of  his  eighty  slaves  and  his  entire  library  of  10,700 
volumes. 

Articles  on  the  war  multiplied  in  newspapers  and  magazines,  especially 
"Letters  from  the  Front,"  and  there  was  an  upsurging  of  interest  in  the 
newspaper  humorists  who  contrived  to  provoke  laughter  as  well  as  to 
criticize  the  wrong-headed  policies  of  civil  and  military  administrators. 
In  addition  to  Artemus  Ward,  there  were  popular  fun-makers  like  Robert 
Henry  Newell  (1 836-1901),  who  punned  on  the  notorious  office-seekers 
by  calling  himself  Orpheus  C.  Kerr,  and  David  Ross  Locke  (1833-88), 
who  coined  the  pen  name  Petroleum  Vesuvius  Nasby.1  The  productions 

1  Humorous  books  and  magazines  published  in  the  South  during  the  war  are 
included  in  the  bibliography  of  Confederate  Belles-Lettres,  compiled  by  Richard  B. 
Harwell  (Hattiesburg,  Miss.,  1941). 

569 


570  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  these  men  were  rife  with  exaggerations  and  the  artfully  ridiculous 
phonetic  spellings  dear  to  journalists  ever  on  the  alert  for  "howlers"  and 
cherished  bv  an  enthusiastic  public  disciplined  in  Noah  Webster's  blue- 
back  "speller." 

The  conflict  immediately  provided  subject  matter  for  the  writers  of 
fiction,  but  of  the  narratives  published  in  the  periodicals  or  in  books  of 
the  war  years  nothing  now  seems  more  memorable  than  "The  Man  with- 
out a  Country"  (1863),  a  short  story  which  violates  most  of  the  rules 
for  its  genre.  Its  author,  the  preacher- journalist  Edward  Everett  Hale 
(182 2- 1 909),  is  now  recalled  almost  solely  for  this  one  tale,  although 
another,  "A4y  Double;  and  How  He  Undid  Me,"  sporadically  appears  in 
anthologies.  He  was  moved  to  write  his  patriotic  classic  at  a  time  when 
the  Peace-Democrats,  or  Copperheads,  were  seriously  impeding  the 
progress  of  the  war,  and  its  purpose  was  to  arouse  a  feeling  of  loyalty  to 
the  Union,  a  purpose  in  which  the  quiet,  matter-of-fact  narrative  was 
eminently  successful.  Its  popularity  in  later  days  is  proved  by  frequent 
reprintings,  and  it  has  served  as  the  basis  of  the  libretto  of  an  unsuccessful 
opera  by  Walter  Damrosch  (1937). 

Because  he  was  reputed  to  be  the  first  officer  from  Massachusetts  to 
meet  a  hero's  death,  a  considerable  though  shortlived  fame  was  won  by 
the  fiction  of  Major  Theodore  Winthrop  (1828-61),  a  Yale  graduate  and 
a  descendant  of  both  Jonathan  Edwards  and  Governor  John  Winthrop. 
Poems  were  penned  in  his  honor,  the  celebrated  essayist  George  William 
Curtis  devoted  a  sketch  to  his  biography,  and  even  Emerson,  a  reluctant 
reader  of  novels,  in  lectures  made  extravagant  remarks  concerning  his 
literary  abilities.  Winthrop  had  published  nothing  of  moment  before  he 
died  near  Norfolk,  Virginia,  but  three  of  his  manuscript  novels,  Cecil 
Dreeme  (1861),  John  Brent  (1862),  and  Edwin  Brothertoft  (1862),  were 
quickly  rushed  into  print  and  enjoyed  an  immediate  vogue  among  both 
critics  and  readers.  A  travel  book,  The  Canoe  and  the  Saddle,  followed  in 
1863,  and  some  poems  and  minor  sketches  later.  His  novels,  partially  in- 
fluenced by  Hawthorne  and  Dickens,  are  old-fashioned,  melodramatic, 
and  amateurish  in  construction,  though  John  Brent  contains  accurate 
descriptions  of  Western  scenery  and  fairly  authentic  portrayals  of  Utah 
Mormons  and  California  miners.  It  has  a  place,  along  with  his  travel 
book,  among  the  more  trustworthy  treatments  of  the  Far  West  produced 
during  the  sixties.  Properly  enough,  one  of  the  glaciers  of  Mount  Rainier 
has  been  named  after  Winthrop. 

In  1 86 1  Hawthorne  wrote  to  a  British  friend:  "Ten  thousand  poetasters 
have  tried,  and  tried  in  vain,  to  give  us  a  rousing  'Scots  wha  hae  wi' 
Wallace  bled,'  "  and  he  added,  "If  we  fight  no  better  than  we  sing,  may 
the  Lord  have  mercy  upon  us  and  upon  the  nation."  Among  these  myriads 
were  a  number  of  song  writers  who  expended  frenetic  energy  in  cele- 
brating the  war.  Some  of  their  efforts  acquired  an  amazing  currency, 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  571 

especially  those  which  were  introduced  to  the  public  and  the  camps  by 
popular  entertainers  like  the  Hutchinson  family  or  the  stars  of  the  minstrel 
shows.  Among  the  "hits"  were  several  songs  by  George  Frederick  Root 
(1820-95),  especially  "Tramp,  Tramp,  Tramp,  the  Boys  are  Marching," 
"The  Battle  Cry  of  Freedom,"  "The  Vacant  Chair,"  and  "Just  before  the 
Battle,  Mother."  Henry  Clay  Work  (1832-84)  composed  "Marching 
through  Georgia,"  "When  Our  Boys  Come  Home,"  and  a  number  of 
others  less  renowned;  and  Walter  Kittredge  (1 834-1 905)  added  the 
sentimental  "Tenting  on  the  Old  Camp  Ground."  The  favorite  song  of 
the  North  was  "John  Brown's  Body,"  of  uncertain  origin  so  far  as  the 
words  are  concerned,  although  its  music  is  said  to  have  been  composed  in 
1856  by  a  Southerner.  The  lack  of  dignity  in  its  lyrics  prompted  a  Boston 
woman,  Julia  Ward  Howe,  to  remedy  the  deficiency  with  "The  Battle 
Hymn  of  the  Republic,"  an  esteemed  national  anthem  recently  revived 
in  popularity.  The  South  borrowed  the  minstrel  favorite  "Dixie"  for  the 
Confederate  anthem,  and  while  it  produced  songs  of  its  own,  notably 
"Maryland,  My  Maryland,"  seems  to  have  cherished  "Tenting  on  the 
Old  Camp  Ground"  and  many  another  popular  product  of  the  enemy. 
Several  of  the  Civil  War  songs  have  had  a  more  tenacious  hold  on  the 
memory  than  their  counterparts  of  later  conflicts,  for  probably  nothing 
from  the  era  of  the  Spanish-American  War  survives  excepting  "There'll 
Be  a  Hot  Time  in  the  Old  Town  Tonight,"  and  the  multifarious  products 
of  the  First  World  War  have,  with  a  few  exceptions  like  "Over  There" 
and  "Keep  the  Home  Fires  Burning,"  succumbed  to  the  tide  constantly 
streaming  from  Tin  Pan  Alley.  Of  course  the  music  rather  than  the  words 
is  the  chief  cause  of  their  survival. 

Of  the  multitude  of  poems  written  to  celebrate  battles,  generals,  the 
wounded,  and  the  dead,  many  were  gathered  from  the  periodicals  and 
preserved  in  anthologies  which  multiplied  in  both  North  and  South;  and 
there  was  a  bountiful  supply  of  volumes  containing  the  work  of  only  one 
author,  like  Melville's  Battle-Pieces  and  Aspects  of  the  War  (1866), 
Boker's  Poems  of  the  War  (1864),  or  Henry  Howard  Brownell's  Lyrics 
of  a  Day  (1864)  and  War-lyrics  (1866).  Brownell  (1820-72),  who  seemed 
for  a  time  "Our  Battle  Laureate,"  as  Holmes  called  him,  had  published  a 
couple  of  volumes  before  the  war  and  kept  the  newspapers  of  Hartford, 
Connecticut,  supplied  with  verses  for  their  poet's  corners.  A  rhymed  ver- 
sion of  Farragut's  "General  Orders"  led  to  his  joining  the  admiral's  staff 
in  1863,  and  some  of  his  martial  verses  were  actually  written  on  board  the 
flagship  Hartford.  "The  Bay  Fight,"  dealing  with  the  Battle  of  New 
Orleans,  is  an  example.  Brownell  was  undoubtedly  the  most  realistic  poet 
who  celebrated  the  naval  engagements  of  the  war,  but,  while  his  verse 
is  "Norse-hearted,"  as  Lowell  said,  it  is  also  marred  by  frequent  crudities, 
and  little  of  it  survives  except  an  occasional  anthology  piece.  In  his  later 
years  he  worked  on  a  long  poem,  never  published,  entitled  "Aeon,"  which 


572  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

is  said  to  contain  commentary  on  Edwards's  treatise  on  the  freedom  of 
the  will.2 

The  Laureate  of  the  Confederacy  was  Henry  Timrod  (1828-67),  wno 
had  shown  a  promise  in  Poems  (i860)  which  was  further  manifest  in  the 
"Ode,"  on  the  Southern  dead,  delivered  at  Charleston  in  1867  and  pub- 
lished in  a  posthumous  volume  likewise  entitled  Voems  (1873).  This  latter 
book  contains  also  "The  Cotton-Boll,"  an  ode  on  the  chief  symbol  of 
the  Old  South,  and  "Ethnogenesis,"  an  optimistic  salute  to  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Confederate  government.  One  of  the  South  Carolina  authors 
encouraged  bv  Simms,  Timrod  showed  marked  abilities  both  as  a  nature 
poet  and  as  a  spokesman  for  the  Confederacy,  but  ill  health  and  poverty, 
culminating  in  the  want  of  hope  and  abject  beggary  brought  about  bv 
the  destruction  of  Columbia,  South  Carolina,  the  city  in  which  he  lived, 
soon  cut  off  his  promise.  Nevertheless,  in  the  history  of  Southern  verse 
he  ranks  as  the  ablest  poet  between  the  time  of  Poe,  certain  of  whose 
critical  opinions  he  opposed,3  and  that  of  Lanier,  whom  he  influenced.  His 
odes  are  the  best-sustained  of  any  written  during  the  war,  but  they  were 
consecrated  to  a  cause  that  is  lost— and  he  is  all  but  forgotten,  even  in  the 
South. 

For  many  decades  the  nation  hailed  as  the  poetical  masterpiece  of  the 
Civil  War  Lowell's  "Ode  Recited  at  the  Commemoration  of  the  Living 
and  Dead  Soldiers  of  Harvard  University"  (1865);  but  time  has  taken 
its  toll  of  Lowell's  poetical  reputation,  and  as  the  emotions  of  readers 
have  been  transferred  to  the  dead  of  later  battles  this  eloquent  Pindaric 
has  sometimes  been  regarded,  unjustly,  as  merely  old-fashioned  rhetoric. 
When  the  cultivated  American  now  thinks  of  Civil  War  poetry  he  may 
find  his  thoughts  centered  on  one  volume— and  one  only— namely,  Walt 
Whitman's  Drum-Taps,  privately  published  in  1865,  and  with  little  success. 

But  indirectly  the  war  had  a  material  effect  upon  subsequent  literature 
in  that  it  raked  the  fires  already  smoldering  and  by  forced  draft  brought 
on  a  roaring  industrialism  which  was  to  change  profoundly  the  prevailing 
agricultural  and  small-business  patterns  of  American  life.  In  addition,  it 
severed  the  United  States  from  Europe  for  a  time  and  fostered  a  self- 
dependence  far  from  merely  economic  or  political.  Whitman,  who  had 
long  been  disposed  to  welcome  signs  of  democracy  in  Europe  and  Asia, 
glumly  noted  during  the  anxious  days  when  all  the  governments  of 
I'u rope  save  that  of  the  Czar  were  hopefully  looking  for  a  permanent 
cleavage  in  the  Union:  "Mexico,  the  only  one  to  whom  we  have  ever 
really  done  wrong,  and  now  the  only  one  who  prays  for  us  and  for  our 
triumph.  .  .  .  Never  again  will  we  trust  the  moral  sense  nor  abstract  friend- 

-  Lines  of  liattle  and  Other  Poems  (Boston  and  New  York,  1912),  Intro,  by  M.  A. 
Dc  Wolfe  Howe. 

:t  Edd  W.  Parks,  Southern  Poets  ([  1936]),  pp.  lxv-lxix;  and  G.  P.  Voigt,  "Timrod's 
Essays  in  Literary  Criticism,"  A??ier.  Lit.,  Vol.  6  (May,  1934),  pp.  163-167. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  573 

liness  of  a  single  government  of  the  old  world."  4  But,  he  thought,  the 
result  was  that  the  country  found  itself  "braced"  and  "concentrated." 
And,  no  doubt,  he  was  right. 

As  a  result  of  the  war  there  was  also  a  considerable  increase  in  the 
circulation  of  magazines  and  newspapers,  so  that  soon  afterward  it  was 
possible  to  speak  of  "national"  periodicals.  Most  important  of  all,  the 
Civil  War  affected  our  literature  by  providing  it  with  one  of  its  chief 
autochthonous  "matters  of  romance,"  for  that  conflict  is  to  the  literature 
of  America  what  the  Trojan  War  was  to  that  of  Greece.  Beginning  with 
DeForest's  Miss  RaveneVs  Conversion  (1866),  and  reaching  a  climax  in 
Crane's  The  Red  Badge  of  Courage  (1895),  the  chronicle  of  the  realistic 
novel  shows  a  remarkable  use  of  the  conflict  of  the  sixties;  and  historical 
romancers,  like  John  Esten  Cooke  (1830-86)  with  Surry  of  Eagle* s-nest 
(1866)  and  Winston  Churchill  with  The  Crisis  (1901)  paved  a  broad 
highway  for  the  success  of  Margaret  Mitchell's  Gone  with  the  Wind 
(1936).  The  most  popular  long  poem  since  the  days  of  Longfellow  has 
been  the  war  epic  by  Stephen  Vincent  Benet,  John  Brown's  Body  (1928). 
Reasons  for  the  popularity  of  the  heroic  stuff  of  legend  and  history  are 
not  easily  divined,  but  there  may  be  some  connection  with  the  fact  that 
the  Civil  War  was  the  bloodiest  of  American  wars.  Moreover,  its  chief 
personalities  were  not  obscure,  and  its  battles  were  all  staged  on  or  near 
American  soil.  Then,  too,  from  its  turmoil  have  emerged  two  of  the 
mightiest  heroes  of  our  history.  The  very  epitome  of  Southern  nobility 
and  chivalry  is  Robert  E.  Lee,  subject  of  legend,  song,  and  story,  after 
whom  thousands  of  Americans  of  both  sexes  have  been  named,  including 
Robert  Lee  Frost;  and  Abraham  Lincoln  (1809-65)  has  gradually  re- 
placed George  Washington  as  our  supreme  heroic  figure.  He  is  said  to 
have  occasioned  more  writing  than  any  single  individual  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  except  Napoleon,  and  at  least  six  anthologies  of  poems 
cluster  about  his  name,  a  fact  not  surprising  when  it  is  remembered  that 
almost  every  American  poet  of  consequence  has  used  him  as  a  subject, 
from  Bryant  to  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson.5 

Important  as  Lincoln  is  as  the  Father  Abraham  of  legend,  he  is  also 
entitled  to  a  place  as  an  author,  for  some  of  his  speeches  at  least  belong 
to  the  literature  of  power.  The  "Gettysburg  Address"  (1863)  is  not  only 
the  most  illustrious  speech  ever  made  in  the  United  States  but  also  an 
artistic  work  of  calculated  form,  emotion,  and  dignity.  Its  high  quality 
is  at  once  apparent  if  it  is  compared  with  Elbert  Hubbard's  "A  Message 
to  Garcia"  (1899),  an  essay  with  a  forty-million  circulation  which  is  the 
most  famous  utterance  emanating  from  the  Spanish-American  War,  or 

4  "Attitude  of  Foreign  Governments  during  the  War,"  Specimen  Days  (Complete 
Prose,  Boston,  1907,  p.  58).  The  French  had  set  up  Maximilian  as  emperor  of  Mexico. 

5  See  Roy  P.  Basler,  The  Lincoln  Legend  (Boston  and  New  York,  1935).  The  most 
celebrated  biography  of  recent  date  is  Carl  Sandburg,  Abraham  Lincoln:  The  Prairie 
Years  (1926)  and  Abraham  Lincoln:  The  War  Years  (1939). 


574  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

with  the  speech  of  Woodrow  Wilson  asking  Congress  to  declare  war 
upon  Germany  ( 1917).  In  the  autumn  of  1863,  where  the  forces  of  Meade 
had  so  recently  vanquished  the  enemy,  the  bodies  of  the  Gettysburg  dead 
were  still  being  taken  up  from  their  exposed  graves  and  re-interred  by 
the  wholesale  at  a  dollar-and-a-half  a  head.  No  poet  recited  an  ode,  though 
Longfellow,  Bryant,  Whittier,  and  Boker  had  each  been  asked  to  do  so. 
The  orator  of  the  day  was  not  the  President  but  Edward  Everett,  the 
old  man  eloquent  of  New  England,  who  in  years  long  past  had  inspired 
the  youthful  Emerson  with  the  desire  to  put  on  the  robe  of  oratory. 
Lincoln  knew  that  his  speech  would  be  contrasted  with  a  lengthy,  finished 
oration  and  spoke  his  few  words,  as  a  newspaper  reported,  "without  the 
least  attempt  for  effect."  Well  received  at  the  dedicatory  exercises,  they 
have  come  to  be  the  most  sacred  utterance  in  the  political  history  of  the 
United  States.  The  definition  of  democracy  as  a  "government  of  the 
people,  by  the  people,  and  for  the  people"  was  possibly  derived  from 
Theodore  Parker,  the  Transcendentalism6 

The  speeches  of  Lincoln  reveal  no  clearly  marked  evolution  so  far  as 
literary  power  is  concerned,  but  it  is  evident  that  the  high  seriousness  of 
his  purpose  to  preserve  the  Union  and  the  tragedy  of  war  called  forth 
his  best  efforts.  None  of  these  is  marked  by  the  village  humor  which  was 
one  of  his  stocks  in  trade  in  familiar  conversation  and  indeed  even  in  his 
remarks  before  Congress  when  he  was  a  legislator.  Such  orations  as  the 
"Speech  at  Peoria"  (1854)  and  the  "Address  at  Cooper  Institute"  (i860) 
are  by  no  means  average  political  discussions,  and  they  reveal  that  de- 
liberate certainty  in  the  use  of  words  which  was  one  of  his  gifts.  The 
figures  of  speech,  the  balanced  structure,  and  the  use  of  alliteration  are 
far  from  homespun,  though  the  analogies  which  he  loved  best  are  as 
homely  as  a  brass  kettle.  In  the  light  of  what  was  to  befall  him,  the  brief 
"Farewell  Address  at  Springfield,  Illinois"  (1861)  now  strikes  the  reader 
with  a  tragic  quality  in  addition  to  the  solemnity  with  which  it  was 
originally  endued.  But  more  powerful  in  their  hold  upon  Americans  are 
his  two  inaugural  speeches,  especially  the  one  of  1865,  with  its  final 
paragraph  beginning,  "With  malice  toward  none;  with  charity  for  all," 
and  ending  with  the  longing  reference  to  "a  just  and  lasting  peace." 


Other  than  the  Civil  War  and  its  effect  upon  literary  production,  the 
chief  development  in  the  history  of  the  sixties  was  the  enhancement 
of  the  prestige  of  the  older  authors,  for  their  output  during  the  decade 
\\  as  very  considerable.  Five  posthumous  works  by  Thoreau,  a  half-dozen 
volumes  each  by  Longfellow  and  Whittier,  along  with  several  new  books 
by  Lowell,  Holmes,  and  Emerson,  marked  a  further  triumph  for  New 

8  For  analogues,  sec  John  L.  Hancy,  "Of  the  People,  By  the  People,  For  the  People," 
Vroc.  Amer.  Phil.  Soc,  Vol.  88  (Nov.  7,  1944),  pp.  359-367. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  575 

England.  But  early  in  the  seventies  a  remarkable  phenomenon  was  evi- 
dent, namely,  the  rise  of  a  Western  school  of  authors  who  were  to  mark 
the  rounding  out  of  the  continent  in  the  field  of  letters.  West  and  East 
were  joined  in  authorship,  even  as  the  completion  of  the  first  trans- 
continental railroad  in  1869  made  apparent  the  union  in  transportation. 
Bret  Harte,  Mark  Twain,  and  Joaquin  Miller  put  the  Far  West  solidly 
on  the  literary  map  for  the  first  time.  And  between  the  extremes  of 
Massachusetts  and  California,  Edward  Eggleston,  John  Hay,  and  William 
Dean  Howells  demonstrated  the  fact  that  the  Middle  West  was  a  cultural 
as  well  as  a  geographical  region  of  America.  With  the  advent,  a  little  later, 
of  George  Washington  Cable,  Sidney  Lanier,  and  Joel  Chandler  Harris, 
the  South  from  its  ashes  put  in  its  claim  to  be  heard,  and  for  the  first  time 
the  literature  of  the  United  States  became  national.  The  early  seventies, 
then,  rather  than  the  Civil  War,  marked  a  new  phase  in  our  literary 
evolution. 

It  is  more  difficult  to  see  clearly  a  diverging  path  in  more  recent  history, 
but  it  seems  as  though  another  period  was  ushered  in  during  the  nineties, 
when  the  older  saints  of  New  England  were  dead,  though  still  honored 
by  the  critics  and  widely  read  in  reprints.  In  the  last  decade  of  the  century 
one  may  note  the  beginning  of  publication  by  many  of  the  writers 
destined  to  come  to  the  fore  in  the  period  following  the  First  World  War, 
the  earliest  signs  of  any  consequential  infiltration  of  naturalism  into  our 
fiction,  the  pioneer  problem  plays,  and  the  rise  of  the  modern  system 
of  publishing  and  advertising  books  and  magazines.  For  these  and  other 
reasons,  it  may  be  possible  to  consider  the  nineties  as  marking  an  important 
transition. 


One  can  observe  an  almost  steady  increase  in  the  use  of  native  themes 
in  the  literature  of  the  final  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century  as  spokes- 
men for  the  regions  appeared  in  greater  number;  yet  the  literature  of 
the  United  States,  like  that  of  Europe,  shows  not  only  a  flourishing  na- 
tionalism but  also  an  increscent  cosmopolitanism.  The  old  stream  of 
English  influence  was  still  broad  and  direct,  but  in  intellectual  circles 
French  realism  threatened  the  ascendancy  of  British  tradition,  and  before 
the  century  was  ended  Tolstoi,  Turgenev,  and  Ibsen  added  hybrid  ele- 
ments. In  the  broader  view,  the  chief  trends  in  America  were  the  same 
as  those  in  Western  Europe,  with  a  tremendous  increase  in  literary  pro- 
duction of  all  sorts  save  the  epic,  whose  historic  place  was  pre-empted 
by  the  novel,  with  the  continuing  rise  in  importance  of  women  writers, 
the  grappling  with  sociological  and  economic  problems,  and  the  inclina- 
tion of  certain  authors  against  the  romantic  idealism  of  an  earlier  day. 

Most  of  the  abler  works  produced  in  America  during  the  period  were 
immediately  reprinted  and  widely  read  in  Great  Britain,  but  of  the  authors 


576  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

who  first  attained  a  reputation  after  the  Civil  War,  Walt  Whitman,  Bret 
Harte,  and  A  lark  Twain  seem  to  have  been  the  three  who  have  enjoyed 
the  widest  fame  throughout  the  world.  A  number  of  others,  for  example, 
Edward  Bellamy,  Alfred  T.  Mahan,  and  Frank  Stockton,  were  also  trans- 
lated into  various  European  or  Asiatic  languages.  Viewing  the  period 
from  an  entirely  American  point  of  view,  one  may  find  its  chief  attain- 
ments identified  with  the  advent  of  a  fairly  large  group  of  capable  short- 
story  writers  ranging  from  Henry  James  and  Bret  Harte  to  Stephen  Crane 
and  Sarah  Orne  Jewett;  the  emergence  of  two  novelists  of  major  im- 
portance, James  and  Howells;  the  production  of  the  world's  chief  humor- 
ist since  Dickens,  Mark  Twain;  and  in  verse  the  rise  to  eminence  of 
Whitman  and  the  apparition  of  Emily  Dickinson.  In  history,  Henry 
Adams  and  Francis  Parkman  are  the  outstanding  literary  representatives. 
Of  course  the  opinions  expressed  during  the  period  as  to  the  ranking 
of  authors  were  somewhat  different.  In  1884,  for  example,  a  poll  con- 
ducted by  one  of  the  more  astute  literary  journals  to  select  living  im- 
mortals for  a  mythical  American  academy  resulted  in  the  following  list 
of  the  top  ten:  Holmes,  Lowell,  Whittier,  Bancroft,  Howells,  Curtis, 
Aldrich,  Harte,  Stedman,  and  Richard  Grant  White.  James  and  Clemens 
received  respectively  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  place,  while  Whitman 
occupied  twentieth.7  In  1899  a  somewhat  similar  balloting  conducted  by 
another  periodical  placed  Howells  at  the  top,  with  Fiske,  Clemens,  Al- 
drich, Stockton,  James,  Weir  Mitchell,  Harte,  Burroughs,  and  Stedman 
following  in  order.8  It  may  be  of  interest  to  observe  that  of  this  latter  list 
the  youngest  was  born  in  1842,  and  only  two  were  college  graduates. 


Whatever  the  difference  between  past  and  present  views  on  the  rela- 
tive importance  of  authors,  there  is  unanimity  in  the  opinion  that  litera- 
ture was  the  outstanding  art  of  the  United  States.  But  the  later  decades 
of  the  century  were  also  graced  with  much  accomplishment  in  the  other 
arts.  The  phenomenal  increase  in  wealth  despite  the  depressions  of  1873 
and  1893,  tne  growth  of  cities,  and  the  performance  of  music  and  the 
display  of  painting  and  sculpture  at  the  Centennial  Exhibition  held  in 
Philadelphia  in  1876  and  at  the  Columbian  Exposition  in  Chicago  in  1893 
not  only  stimulated  patronage  on  the  part  of  the  wealthy  but  also  served 
to  acquaint  the  multitudes  with  the  arts.  The  improvement  of  art  schools 
and  the  establishment  of  public  museums  such  as  the  Metropolitan  in 
New  York  (1870),  the  Museum  of  Fine  Arts  in  Boston  (1876),  the  Art 
Institute  in  Chicago  (1879),  and  the  Corcoran  Art  Gallery  in  Washing- 
ton (1870),  were  likewise  influential.  But  probably  most  important  of  all 
in  educating  popular  taste  were  the  illustrated  magazines  with  their  re- 


:  The  Critic,  N.  S.,  Vol.  1   (April  12,  1884),  p.  169. 
K  Literature,  N.  S.,  No.  16  (April  28,  1899),  p.  381. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  577 

productions  of  masterpieces  accompanied  by  articles  at  once  entertaining 
and  instructive. 

These  periodicals  paid  large  sums  of  money  for  the  making  of  pictures, 
and  engaged  not  only  artists  to  draw  sketches  but  wood  engravers  to 
reproduce  originals,  for  the  quickest  and  best  means  of  reproducing  a 
picture  in  print  was  to  have  it  first  engraved  on  a  wood  block.  Hundreds 
of  thousands  of  Americans  obtained  their  first  acquaintance  with  master- 
pieces in  painting  and  architecture  through  the  illustrations  in  the  maga- 
zines. Because  of  the  keen  competition  which  raged  among  the  illustrated 
periodicals  after  1870,  the  technique  of  wood  engraving  was  brought  to 
a  perfection  which  surpassed  anything  of  the  sort  in  England  and  was 
rarely  equalled  in  France  during  the  period.  The  extreme  elaboration 
of  detail  was,  of  course,  intended  to  produce  a  faithful  representation, 
approaching  photography  in  the  results.  Wood  engraving  as  an  art 
reached  a  high  peak  in  America,  and  at  least  one  of  the  woodcutters  is 
now  considered  a  genius  of  no  mean  order.  Timothy  Cole  ( 1852-193 1), 
the  ablest  of  the  realists  in  technique,  began  his  apprenticeship  in  Chicago 
and  moved  eastward  after  the  fire  of  1871  destroyed  most  of  that  city.  In 
New  York,  the  art  center  of  the  country,  he  soon  found  employment 
with  a  number  of  periodicals,  including  Hearth  and  Home  and  The  Sci- 
entific American.  As  Cole,  in  accordance  with  demand  for  greater  faith- 
fulness to  originals,  modified  old  techniques,  his  increasingly  realistic 
results  soon  attracted  the  attention  of  the  editors  of  Scribner's  Monthly. 
For  this  magazine  and  its  successor,  The  Century,  he  engraved  many  of 
the  wTorks  of  the  younger  American  painters.  Later  he  was  sent  to  Europe 
and  there  spent  many  years  copying  pictures  for  various  series  of  articles 
on  the  old  masters.  After  his  return  to  this  country  in  19 10,  he  found  his 
engravings  honored  but  less  sought  after  by  the  periodicals,  for  improve- 
ments in  the  methods  of  photoengraving  had  seriously  reduced  demand 
for  the  work  of  woodcutters.9  Though  Cole  believed  that  his  time  was 
wasted  when  not  occupied  with  reproducing  masterpieces,  he  was  obliged 
to  cut  portraits  of  prominent  people  like  Mary  Baker  Eddy,  John  D. 
Rockefeller,  and  Theodore  Roosevelt.  He  spoke  of  his  vocation  as  that 
of  a  "translator,"  yet  no  one  who  has  looked  at  his  best  work  can  doubt 
his  importance  as  an  artist  in  his  own  right. 

Painting  in  America  during  the  last  decades  of  the  nineteenth  century 
was  marked  by  a  notable  increase  in  the  number  of  skilled  practitioners 
and,  like  the  more  intellectual  fiction  of  the  time,  gave  evidence  of  a 
change  of  allegiance  from  the  British  school  to  that  of  the  French,  for 
most  of  the  artists  who  became  prominent  after  the  Civil  War  were 
trained  in  the  ateliers  of  Paris.  Many  also  studied  in  Munich.  The  en- 

9  Robert  Taft,  Photography  and  the  American  Scene  (1938),  Chap.  XXI, 
"Photography  and  the  Pictorial  Press";  see  also  Alphaeus  P.  Cole  and  Margaret  W. 
Cole,  Timothy  Cole:  Wood-Engraver  (1935). 


578  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

thusiasm  of  the  younger  men  for  training  on  the  Continent  is  also  re- 
flected in  the  taste  of  the  wealthy  who  brought  to  their  homes  a  generous 
supply  of  Corots,  Millets,  and  Bouguereaus.  The  surest  way  to  fame  was 
to  stay  long  enough  in  Europe  to  gain  at  least  a  local  reputation  there, 
and  for  this  reason  a  large  number  of  prominent  painters  became  ex- 
patriates. Of  these  the  most  eminent  were  James  Abbott  McNeill  Whistler 
(1834- 1 903)  and  John  Singer  Sargent  (1856- 1925),  both  of  whom  were 
trained  in  France  but  lived  for  many  years,  and  died,  in  England. 

Whistler,  though  of  New  England  birth,  dwelt  for  a  while  in  Russia, 
whence  he  returned  to  spend  three  years  at  West  Point.  "If  silicon  had 
been  a  gas,1'  he  said,  "I  might  have  been  an  army  officer."  In  1855  he  went 
to  Paris  to  train  himself  as  a  painter  and  never  returned  to  the  United 
States.  Early  in  his  life  he  was  active  both  as  a  painter  and  as  an  etcher, 
and  as  an  etcher  his  influence  was  most  widespread.  Impressed  by  the 
realism  of  Courbet,  he  introduced  the  new  French  manner  to  England, 
where  he  was  attacked  by  conservative  critics,  among  them  Ruskin,  whose 
abuse  of  him  in  Fors  Clavigera  prompted  the  pugnacious  artist  in  1878  to 
sue  for  libel.  Whistler  won  the  suit  and  was  awarded  the  sum  of  one 
farthing  as  damages,  but  the  expense  of  the  trial  drove  him  into  bank- 
ruptcy. During  the  sixties  he  had  become  very  fond  of  the  patterns  of 
Japanese  art,  and  their  effect  is  to  be  seen  in  some  of  his  works.  About 
the  same  time,  he  painted  a  number  of  well-known  portraits,  including 
that  of  his  mother  and  one  of  Carlyle.  Surpassing  them  in  originality  were 
his  famous  "Nocturnes,"  hazy  studies  especially  of  water  scenes,  which, 
along  with  his  etchings,  are  now  ranked  as  high  as  his  portraits  and  figure 
compositions.  A  bohemian  by  nature  and  a  caustic  wit,  whose  book  The 
Gentle  Art  of  Making  Enemies  (1890)  created  a  sensation  in  cultivated 
circles,  Whistler  often  seemed  to  be  such  a  cocky  poseur  that  many  critics 
seriously  questioned  his  artistic  integrity.  When,  however,  the  new  So- 
ciety of  British  Artists  in  1886  elected  him  its  president  and  five  years 
later  the  Luxembourg  Gallery  bought  his  portrait  of  his  mother  (now  in 
the  Louvre),  the  tide  began  to  turn;  and,  despite  lawsuits  and  frequent 
quarrels,  he  finished  a  prodigious  amount  of  work,  most  of  which  was 
acclaimed  by  younger  artists  and  by  the  collectors  who  paid  well  for  it. 
Honors  came  from  various  nations,  including  election  to  the  French 
Legion  of  Honor,  and  in  1898  he  was  made  president  of  the  International 
Society  of  Sculptors,  Painters,  and  Engravers.  No  American  artist  of  his 
period  was  more  highly  honored  in  Europe  than  he. 

Sargent  was  likewise  a  cosmopolite.  Born  of  wealthy  parents  in  Flor- 
ence, he  spent  most  of  his  youth  in  Italy,  but  in  1874  when  his  artistic 
training  was  taken  seriously  he  entered  the  studio  of  Carolus-Duran  in 
Paris  and  later  studied  at  the  Ecole  des  Beaux-Arts.  Soon  becoming  one 
of  the  recognized  younger  portrait  painters  of  Paris,  he  was  also  greatly 
interested  in  Spain,  where  he  copied  many  works  of  Velasquez  and  was 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  579 

inspired,  in  1882,  to  paint  the  striking  "El  Jaleo,"  now  in  the  Gardner 
Museum  in  Boston.  Though  never  radical,  he  nevertheless  early  admired 
the  impressionistic  work  of  Claude  Monet.  In  London,  where  he  bought 
as  his  permanent  home  a  house  formerly  used  by  Whistler  as  a  studio, 
commissions  for  portraits  came  readily  from  wealthy  British  and  Ameri- 
cans, and  the  pleasing  results  were  often  exhibited  at  the  Royal  Academy, 
of  which  he  was  elected  a  member.  The  silver  spoon  in  his  infant  mouth 
seems  never  to  have  had  an  opportunity  to  tarnish.  Ellen  Terry,  Lady 
Agnew,  Coventry  Patmore,  and  Henry  James  were  among  the  legion 
of  his  sitters.  In  1890  he  agreed  to  decorate  the  walls  of  the  special  libraries 
floor  of  the  Boston  Public  Library  and  finished  the  task  in  19 16.  Among 
these  murals,  all  of  surpassing  merit,  the  most  famous  is  the  "Prophets' 
Frieze."  Subsequently  he  added  to  his  renown  as  a  muralist  by  decorating 
the  rotunda  and  the  main  staircase  of  the  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts. 
The  war  in  19 14  distracted  him  into  choosing  new  subjects  of  which  the 
most  famous  was  "Gassed."  Two  examples  of  his  war  pictures  may  be 
seen  in  the  panels  on  the  stairway  of  the  Widener  Library  at  Harvard. 
Although  the  decoration  of  buildings  and  the  war  work  marked  a  de- 
parture from  his  accustomed  interests,  Sargent  never  abandoned  alto- 
gether the  portrait  painting  which  has  given  him  his  chief  reputation.  In 
1907  he  was  asked  to  add  his  own  picture  to  the  famed  series  of  self- 
portraits  hung  in  the  Uffizi  Gallery,  and  the  Prime  Minister  of  Great 
Britain  offered  him  a  knighthood,  which,  however,  he  refused  because 
of  his  American  citizenship.  Along  with  Whistler  and  the  French  Im- 
pressionists, Sargent  was  a  dominant  influence  on  American  painting,  up 
to  the  time  of  the  Armory  Show,  in  191 3. 

The  critics  who  now  pass  judgment  on  the  collection  of  Sargents  in 
the  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts  or  the  Whistlers  in  the  Freer  Gallery 
in  Washington  no  longer  exalt  their  worth  with  the  adulation  prevailing 
in  the  nineties,  for  the  facile  flattery  of  Sargent  and  the  mid-century  aura 
of  Whistler  have  lost  a  measure  of  the  power  to  please,  albeit  their  techni- 
cal excellence  is  still  admired.  Changes  in  taste  and,  above  all,  the  surging 
development  of  nationalism  since  the  nineteen-twenties  have  put  these 
men  in  the  shade  and  brought  forward  the  names  of  three  others  who  are 
now  reckoned  among  the  most  eminent  American  painters  of  the  period: 
Winslow  Homer  (1836- 19 10),  Thomas  Eakins  (1844- 19 16),  and  Albert 
Pinkham  Ryder  (1847- 19 17). 

Homer  was  practically  self-educated  but  travelled  abroad  as  early  as 
1866.  Experience  as  an  apprentice  lithographer  in  his  native  Boston,  a 
few  drawing  lessons  in  Brooklyn  and  at  the  National  Academy  of  De- 
sign, and  haphazard  advice  from  a  second-rate  artist— that  is  the  record  of 
his  training.  He  began  early  to  illustrate  for  the  periodicals  and  during 
the  Civil  War  visited  the  front  a  few  times  to  make  sketches  for  Harper's 
Weekly.  His  most  famous  war  picture,  "Prisoners  from  the  Front,"  a 


58o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

realistic  study  in  oil,  aroused  favorable  attention  when  exhibited  in  1866, 
and  his  early  work  sold  better  than  was  usually  the  case  with  the  products 
of  a  young  artist;  but  the  critics  of  the  seventies  were  chary  of  praise. 
Henry  James  found  his  work  to  be  "almost  barbarously  simple"  and 
"damnably  ugly."  10  When  Homer  discovered  that  he  could  sell  his 
water  colors  with  fair  regularity,  he  lost  interest  in  illustrating  for  the 
publishers  and,  after  a  visit  to  England  in  the  early  eighties,  removed  to 
Prout's  Neck,  Maine,  where  he  spent  most  of  his  remaining  years  as  a 
gruff  hermit.  His  earlier  subjects,  other  than  nonheroic  scenes  of  army 
life,  were  t)f  country  life  with  emphasis  on  children  and  young  women, 
but  as  he  grew  older  he  turned  to  the  Negroes  of  the  Caribbean,  sailors 
of  the  New  England  coast,  and  hunters  of  the  Adirondacks.  The  wilder- 
ness and  the  sea  fascinated  him,  and  he  has  left  a  record  of  the  various 
moods  of  the  ocean  unequalled  by  any  other  American  save  Walt  Whit- 
man. The  masculine  nature  of  his  later  subjects  is  also  to  be  seen  in  his 
style,  which  grew  in  rough  power  and  a  kinetic  quality  which  cause  his 
final  works  to  be  numbered  among  his  most  superb.  In  both  water  color 
and  oil  he  created  masterpieces  which  now  rank  among  the  most  famous 
of  American  pictures.  The  water  colors  depicting  the  Bahamas  and  such 
oils  as  "The  Fox  Hunt"  (1893)  and  "The  Gulf  Stream"  (1898)  are  among 
the  better-known  examples  of  his  virile  brush. 

Thomas  Eakins,  more  skilled  as  a  technician  than  Homer,  was  by  no 
means  as  popular  during  his  lifetime.  A  Philadelphian  by  birth  and  long 
residence,  he  spent  about  four  years  abroad,  during  which  he  studied  at 
the  Ecole  des  Beaux- Arts  under  Gerome.  This  training,  with  his  own 
industry  and  talent,  enabled  him  to  attain  unusual  strength  in  composi- 
tion. A  student  of  anatomy  in  the  medical  schools  of  Philadelphia,  a 
mathematician  for  the  fun  of  it,  he  had  little  interest  in  esthetics  and  chose 
unconventional  subjects  like  men  rowing  on  the  Schuylkill,  surgeons 
operating,  or  boxers  engaging  in  fisticuffs.  In  the  early  seventies  he  began 
his  career  as  a  portrait  painter,  but  because  he  refused  to  flatter  his  sitters 
he  sold  only  eight  paintings  in  ten  years.  The  student  of  literature  will 
perhaps  "best  be  able  to  appreciate  Eakins's  uncompromising  realism  by 
comparing  his  portrait  of  Whitman  with  other  pictures  of  the  poet  or  by 
contrasting  his  baggy-trousered,  bespectacled  "Thinker"  (1900)  with 
Rodin's  famous  troglodyte.  His  most  ambitious  early  work,  "The  Gross 
Clinic"  (1875),  depicting  a  surgeon  at  work,  blood  on  his  hand  and  sur- 
rounded by  his  assistants  and  students,  shocked  the  public  who  viewed 
it,  and  the  Pennsylvania  Academy  hung  it  in  an  obscure  corridor  where 
it  was  not  likely  to  be  seen.  And  the  masterpiece  of  his  middle  years, 
"The  Agnew  Clinic"  ( 1889)— another  lesson  in  surgery— was  refused  for 
exhibition  by  the  supposedly  radical  Society  of  American  Artists.  For 

10  "On  Some  Pictures  Lately  Exhibited,"  The  Galaxy,  Vol.  20  (July,  1875), 
pp.  93-94. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  581 

years  he  taught  art  in  Philadelphia,  but  when  in  1886  he  was  discussing 
the  pelvis  of  a  male  model  with  a  class  of  young  women  he  removed  the 
loin  cloth,  and  the  resultant  tearful  complaints  led  to  his  resigning  his 
post  at  the  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  the  Fine  Arts.  Later  he  taught  in 
other  schools,  not  without  trouble  ensuing,  and  he  was  regarded  as  an 
outlaw.  He  "lacked  beauty,"  according  to  his  contemporaries.  Nowadays, 
his  impersonal,  almost  scientific  exactness  and  trenchant  penetration  into 
character  give  him  a  high  place  in  our  artistic  annals. 

Ryder,  a  native  of  Massachusetts,  studied  at  the  National  Academy  of 
Design  but  never  became  technically  proficient.  His  works,  few  in  num- 
ber, have  an  appealing  imaginative  quality  and  a  dreamy  power.  As  with 
Homer,  his  marines  are  among  his  best  paintings,  yet  they  are  a  far  cry 
from  the  salt  and  spray  of  reality.  On  the  contrary,  they  are  idealistic, 
rich  in  design,  and  distinguished  by  a  haunting  mood  which  probably 
Poe  would  have  liked.  It  was  something  beyond  the  actual  that  appealed 
to  him.  "The  artist,"  he  remarked,  "needs  but  a  roof,  a  crust  of  bread  and 
his  easel,  and  all  the  rest  God  gives  him  in  abundance,"  11  a  creed  well 
exemplified  in  his  own  life  of  solitude  and  poverty.  Chaucer,  Shakespeare, 
and  Richard  Wagner  inspired  certain  of  his  paintings,  for  he  was  fond 
of  poetry  and  music  and  himself  wrote  verse  with  a  curious  compactness, 
for  example: 

Who   knows   what   God   knows? 
His  hand  he  never  shows, 
Yet  miracles  with  less  are  wrought 
Even  with  a  thought.12 

A  genius  he  certainly  was,  but  the  encomiums  lavished  upon  him  today 
may  well  seem  strange  to  another  generation,  even  though  his  reputation 
has  grown  steadily  since  his  death. 


Other  than  the  five  men  who  have  been  mentioned,  there  are,  of  course, 
many  American  painters  of  the  era  whose  merits  are  great,13  among  them 
Mary  Cassatt  (1845- 1926),  a  distinguished  expatriate  who  is  usually  classi- 
fied as  one  of  the  Parisian  Impressionists.  But  a  survey  of  the  sculptors 
of  the  time  discovers  fewer  names  of  consequence.  The  most  popular 
sculptures  were  statuettes  of  plaster  by  John  Rogers  (1829- 1904),  which 
were  reproduced  in  quantity  and  adorned  pedestals  in  parlors  all  over 
the  country,  in  much  the  same  fashion  as  the  prints  manufactured  by 
Currier  and  Ives  decorated  their  walls.  Known  as  "Rogers  Groups,"  they 

11  Frederic  F.  Sherman,  Albert  Finkham  Ryder  (1920),  p.  21. 

12  Sherman,  Ryder,  p.  30. 

13  Notably,  John  La  Farge,  George  Inness,  Homer  D.  Martin,  William  M.  Harnett, 
John  H.  Twachtman,  Theodore  Robinson,  and  J.  Alden  Weir. 


582  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

celebrated  activities  connected  with  the  Civil  War  or  dealt  with  such 
humble  subjects  as  "The  Checker  Players"  or  "Weighing  the  Baby."  On 
the  lawns  of  more  prosperous  citizens  appeared  iron  statuary  and  before 
court  houses  monuments  in  metal  or  stone  to  military  officers,  usually 
in  no  better  taste  than  that  exhibited  by  an  average  tombstone  carver 
like  the  father  of  Thomas  Wolfe.  Much  better  was  the  work  of  a  few 
sculptors  such  as  John  Quincy  Adams  Ward  (1830-1910),  whose  generals 
are  scattered  from  Gettysburg,  Pennsylvania,  to  Spartanburg,  South 
Carolina,  and  whose  "Indian  Hunter"  (1864)  was  for  many  years  a  marvel 
in  the  eyes  of  strollers  in  Central  Park.  It  was  not  until  the  eighties  that 
our  sculpture  began  to  show  marked  signs  of  improvement,  and  again 
the  paramount  influence  was  from  Paris,  whither  Augustus  Saint-Gaudens 
(1848- 1 907)  went  in  1867  to  acquire  the  technical  training  which  enabled 
him  to  become  the  chief  exponent  of  the  art  in  the  United  States.  Re- 
turning home  in  1874  with  his  style  already  formed,  he  was  soon  given 
important  commissions,  beginning  with  statues  of  Admiral  Farragut  and 
Robert  R.  Randall.  From  the  year  1881,  when  his  "Farragut"  was  erected 
in  Madison  Square,  he  dominated  the  sculpture  of  the  country  until  long 
after  his  death,  and  his  figure  of  the  Emancipator  in  Lincoln  Park,  Chicago 
(1887)  was  deemed  the  outstanding  portrait  statue  of  its  period.  The 
nameless  bronze  commissioned  by  his  friend  Henry  Adams  as  a  memorial 
to  his  wife  and  placed  in  Rock  Creek  Cemetery  in  Washington  (1891) 
has  at  times  been  referred  to  as  the  most  splendid  example  of  American 
sculpture.  Variously  called  "Grief,"  "Death,"  or  "The  Peace  of  God,"  it 
represents  a  sexless  figure  sitting  in  contemplation  with  closed  eyes.  It  was 
meant,  said  Adams,  "to  ask  a  question,  not  to  give  an  answer."  The  initial 
idea  from  which  it  evolved  seems  to  have  been  the  Japanese  Kwannon, 
a  Buddhist  Goddess  of  Mercy,  about  whom  his  artist-friend  John  La 
Farge  read  various  passages  to  the  sculptor.14  The  bronze  is,  however, 
wholly  Occidental  in  execution. 

More  familiar  to  students  of  literature  than  the  works  of  Saint-Gaudens, 
but  less  praised  by  present-day  critics,  are  the  numerous  sculptures  of 
Daniel  Chester  French  ( 1850-193 1),  who  as  a  boy  in  Concord,  Massa- 
chusetts, received  his  first  instruction  in  modeling  from  May  Alcott.  His 
long  and  very  successful  career  was  inaugurated  by  a  statue  of  "The 
Minute  Man"  (1875),  and  his  bust  of  Emerson  (1879)  was  the  first,  and 
most  important,  of  his  several  portraits  of  literary  men.  All  students  at 
Harvard  arc  familiar  with  the  seated  bronze  of  John  Harvard  (1884), 
and  the  massive  "Alma  Mater"  (1903)  is  one  of  the  distinguishing  features 
of  the  Columbia  University  campus;  but  both  are  inferior  to  "Death  and 
the  Young  Warrior"  ( 1924)  in  the  chapel  at  St.  Paul's  School.  Best  known 
of  French's  sugared  idealizations  is  the  seated  statue  (1920)  in  the  beauti- 
ful  Lincoln  Memorial   in  Washington,  although  Nebraskans,  no  doubt, 

14  Henry  Adams  and  His  Friends,  cd.  Harold  D.  Cater  (1947),  pp.  liii,  cxviii-cxix. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  583 

prefer  the  smaller  figure  of  Lincoln  which  he  made  for  the  grounds  of 
their  state  capitol. 

The  end  of  the  century  also  saw  important  work  by  Frederick  William 
MacMonnies  (1863-1937),  a  pupil  and  assistant  of  Saint-Gaudens.  He  first 
gained  recognition  with  a  colossal,  over-ornamented  fountain  for  the 
Columbian  Exposition  and  in  1896  shocked  Bostonians  out  of  accepting 
the  charming  "Bacchante  with  Infant  Faun"  which  now  honors  the  Metro- 
politan Museum  in  New  York.  The  central  doors  of  the  main  entrance 
to  the  Congressional  Library  (1898)  are  other  examples  of  his  work  com- 
pleted during  a  period  climaxed  by  the  Army  and  Navy  groups  for  the 
"Soldiers'  and  Sailors'  Arch"  (1900)  in  Prospect  Park  Plaza  in  Brooklyn. 
Twenty  years  later,  his  "Civic  Virtue"  elicited  much  abusive  criticism  for 
its  supposed  "hard  guy"  appearance;  but  the  French,  who  had  long  since 
honored  him,  were  delighted  in  1926  to  receive  as  a  gift  from  the  Ameri- 
can people  his  monument  celebrating  the  Battle  of  the  Marne  which  now 
stands  near  Meaux. 

Whereas  our  sculptors  before  the  Civil  War  leaned  heavily  for  inspira- 
tion on  the  ancient  classics,  the  Bible,  and  standard  authors  of  the  times, 
the  leading  practitioners  during  the  later  decades  of  the  century  became 
less  interested  in  illustrating  dramatic  incidents  in  literature  or  fable  and 
more  concerned  with  sculpture  per  se.  This  tendency  is  even  more  patent 
in  the  history  of  the  art  during  the  present  century. 


Architecture  at  mid-century  was  caught  in  the  tempest  of  esthetic  and 
technical  confusion  blown  up  by  the  cross-currents  of  romanticism  and 
industrialism,  but  in  the  nineties  began  to  exhibit  trends  in  theory  and 
practice  which  are  still  crystallizing  today.  After  the  Civil  War,  building 
types  for  new  purposes  multiplied  with  the  mushrooming  of  cities  and 
overshot  the  talents  of  the  average  architect,  who  was  still  the  product 
of  local  craft  apprenticeship.  His  practical  experience  had  seldom  involved 
enterprises  on  a  large  scale,  and  no  theoretical  training  for  the  newly 
recognized  profession  of  architecture  became  available  to  him  until 
1865-66,  when  a  curriculum  was  formulated  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute 
of  Technology.  Skilled  in  constructive  ingenuity  rather  than  in  principles 
of  design,  he  was  guided  now  by  the  greedy  haste  of  speculators  in  im- 
migrant housing,  now  by  the  ostentatious  taste  of  folk  grown  rich  over- 
night, and  long  continued  to  rely  on  the  popular  plan-books  of  "Pictur- 
esque Gothic  Cottages,"  "Villas  in  the  Italian  Style,"  and  mansard-roofed 
"Model  Residences"  with  which  steam  presses  flooded  the  market.  Peri- 
odicals such  as  The  Architect  (1869-  )  and  The  American  Architect 
and  Building  News  (1876-  )  had  little  better  to  offer  him  at  first. 
Ornament  and  furnishings  rapidly  passed  out  of  his  hands  by  way  of  the 
powerlathe  and  jigsaw,  the  foundry,  and  the  textile  mill,  to  emerge  from 


584  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

manufacturers'  warehouses  at  so  much  per  cheap  sales-unit  of  repetitious 
wooden  scrollwork,  cast-metal  fixtures,  and  fabrics  of  uninspired  pattern 
and  dismal  hue. 

In  the  eighties,  romantic  arts-and-crafters  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic 
sought  vainly  to  restore  to  him  the  prerogatives  thus  snatched  away  by 
the  machine,  but  the  average  builder  himself  was  already  a  slave  to  me- 
chanical short-cuts.  Along  with  many  of  his  prospective  patrons,  he  had 
been  transported  to  Philadelphia  by  the  new  Pullman  cars  in  1876  to 
tramp  through  450  astonishing  acres  of  the  Centennial  Exhibition,  first 
of  the  international  expositions  to  show  diverse  phases  of  mass  produc- 
tion within  separate  pavilions.  Dazzled  by  this  array  of  temporary  con- 
struction decked  out  in  pseudo-historic  styles  almost  as  original  as  the 
patent  contrivances  on  display,  the  average  builder  turned  homeward 
carrying  with  him  the  measles  of  an  awkward  and  sentimental  "Ameri- 
canese"  which  soon  spotted  the  farthest  corners  of  the  land. 

Wealthy  clients,  uncertain  of  their  own  culture,  sought  architects 
who  could  invest  their  houses  in  "authentic"  stylistic  envelopes  borrowed 
from  the  European  past.  The  first  three  American  architects  to  return 
from  the  Ecole  des  Beaux-Arts  thus  equipped  were  Richard  Morris  Hunt 
(1827-95),  Henry  Hobson  Richardson  (1838-86),  and  Charles  Follen 
McKim  (1847- 1 909).  Hunt  provided  the  affluent  with  splendid  French 
Renaissance  chateaux,  while  the  firm  of  McKim,  Mead  &  White  purveyed 
Italian  palaces  and  Roman  temples,  as  in  the  Boston  Public  Library  (1887- 
95)  and  the  neo-Pantheon  which  served  Columbia  University  as  a 
splendiferous  if  inefficient  library  (1895-98).  Such  buildings  still  continue 
to  be  admired. 

Richardson,  a  more  protean  genius,  adapted  to  American  needs  the 
rugged  masonry  and  dynamic  masses  of  the  Romanesque,  which  he  used 
so  effectively  in  Trinity  Church,  Boston  (1872-77)  and  the  Allegheny 
County  Buildings  at  Pittsburgh  (1884-87).  Yet  Richardson  was  no  idolater 
of  a  foreign  past,  and  he  soon  progressed  to  the  creative  solution  of  pe- 
culiarly American  building  problems,  such  as  the  small  railroad  stations 
and  public  libraries  of  New  England,  and  achieved  in  the  gaunt  power  of 
the  Marshall  Field  Wholesale  Building  in  Chicago  (1885-87)  a  monument 
to  American  commerce.  Before  he  died  he  said  that  he  wished  to  design 
a  grain  elevator  or  the  interior  of  a  Mississippi  steamboat.  Lesser  men, 
seizing  upon  the  superficial  of  Richardson's  style— his  quarry-faced 
masonry,  his  rugged  masses,  deep-browed  arches,  and  rounded  towers- 
produced  a  rash  of  "Romanesque"  which  burdened  churches  and  city 
houses  in  various  parts  of  the  country  with  a  kind  of  elephantiasis  in 
stone. 

Yet  in  the  suburbs  had  grown  up,  under  the  leadership  of  Richardson 
and  the  youthful  McKim,  a  genuinely  American  vernacular.  The  simple 
brown-stained  shingled  houses  of  the  eighties,  freely-planned  and  with 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  585 

extensive  porches,  were  compounded  of  influences  from  the  English 
Queen  Anne,  the  romantic  landscape  design  of  the  mid-century,  and 
traces  of  our  own  colonial  tradition.  Unpretentiously,  they  became  an 
indigenous  part  of  the  American  suburban  scene,  so  natural  and  genuine 
that  their  homely  merits  were  unobserved  amidst  the  excitement  over 
various  foreign  fashions— and  indeed  have  remained  so  in  large  measure  till 
today. 

This  promising  augury  of  an  American  style  was  thwarted  by  the 
overwhelming  Roman  grandeur  of  the  World's  Columbian  Exposition 
of  1893.  Planned  by  a  group  of  the  country's  leading  architects— among 
them  Hunt,  McKim,  and  other  Beaux-Arts  men— the  main  buildings  of 
the  White  City  were  so  monumentally  disposed  around  the  vast  Court 
of  Honor,  and  so  unified  by  their  single  style  and  uniform  cornice  height, 
that  they  generated  an  effect  of  imperial  grandeur  well  calculated  to 
impress  an  age  of  imperial  financial  and  commercial  ambitions.  The 
prestige  of  such  embodiments  of  archaeological  formulae— whether  of 
classical  or  medieval  derivation— was  further  strengthened  during  the 
nineties  by  the  foundation,  through  McKim's  influence,  of  the  American 
Academy  in  Rome  (1895)  and  the  return  from  Paris  of  an  increasing 
number  of  Beaux-Arts  trained  men.  New  architectural  schools— among 
them  Illinois  (1870),  Cornell  (1871),  Columbia  (1883),  and  Harvard 
(1890)— and  at  least  five  more  periodicals  devoted  entirely  to  architec- 
ture and  soon  armed  with  the  new  resources  of  photomechanical  illustra- 
tion, greatly  extended  the  knowledge  of  all  past  architectural  styles.  By 
the  turn  of  the  century,  buildings  for  every  conceivable  purpose  had 
come  to  be  cast  in  standardized  stylistic  molds  which  would  scarcely  be 
cracked  until  after  the  First  World  War  and  are  yet  to  be  completely 
broken. 

The  one  peculiarly  American  building  type  of  the  period  was  that 
epitome  of  experimental  daring  defined  in  James  Maitland's  American 
Slang  Dictionary  (Chicago,  1891)  as  "Skyscraper— a  very  tall  building 
such  as  now  are  being  built  in  Chicago."  Conditioned  by  expanding  com- 
merce and  soaring  land  costs,  it  drew  upon  the  diverse  traits  of  vernacular 
innocence  and  of  archaeological  erudition;  for  the  constructive  ingenuity 
of  the  one  hastened  an  inevitable  solution  of  its  technical  problems,  while 
the  ready-made  styles  of  the  other  were  used  to  resolve  its  esthetic  form. 
The  fundamental  advance  prerequisite  to  its  full  realization  lay,  how- 
ever, not  in  architectural  principles  but  in  the  engineering  theories  of 
structural  analysis,  the  outcome  of  generations  of  patient  calculation  and 
tireless  experiment  with  the  strengths  of  new  industrial  materials.  The 
technical  problem  centered  in  a  complete  rethinking  of  the  age-old 
masonry  wall,  heaviest  at  the  base  where  rentable  area  and  show-windows 
were  now  wanted.  Responsibility  for  the  support  of  the  tall  building  had 
to  be  shifted  from  that  masonry  wall  to  a  relatively  light  framework  of 


586  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

metal  members— at  first  of  iron  but  soon  of  steel.  The  same  newly  avail- 
able steel  was  needed  to  provide  vertical  communication  by  elevators. 
Corollary  developments  in  constructing  foundations  and  in  flreproofing 
introduced  the  potentialities  of  reinforced  concrete,  fully  exploited  later. 

The  resulting  space-crate,  offering  identical  floor  areas  throughout  the 
building  and  identical  window  areas  in  the  new  plate  glass  for  every  story, 
had  then  only  to  make  formal  declaration  of  its  flexible  height  and  well- 
lighted  spaciousness.  This  it  did  through  a  fluent  reproportioning  of 
closed  and  open  elements  in  the  thin  protective  screen  of  wall  that  now 
clung  to  the  metal  frame  instead  of  holding  up  the  building.  Although 
no  one  man  and  no  one  skyscraper  solved  all  these  problems,  William  Le 
Baron  Jenney  (183 2- 1907)  and  Louis  Henri  Sullivan  (1856- 1924)  played 
vital  roles  in  establishing  the  type.  Jenney's  ten-story  fireproof  Home 
Insurance  Company  Building  in  Chicago  (designed  1883,  built  1884-85, 
two  stories  added  1890,  demolished  1929)  was  the  first  skyscraper  actually 
built.  The  faults  of  its  inexpressive  "Americanese"  exterior  were  those 
which  Sullivan— a  great  admirer  of  Richardson— strove  to  correct  in  such 
a  design  as  that  for  his  Wainwright  Building  in  St.  Louis  (1890-91).  Re- 
jecting all  historic  ornament,  he  fastidiously  touched  with  his  own  delicate 
motifs  the  wall  surface  above  each  window  to  indicate  that  it  did  no 
work,  but  left  clean  and  sheer  the  vertical  strips  which  proclaimed  the 
elastic  height  of  the  steel  frame.  In  his  Carson  Pirie  Scott  Store  in  Chicago 
(1899,  later  enlarged)  he  emphasized  the  horizontal  volumes  of  space  con- 
tained between  floors  by  accenting  the  bands  of  wide  windows.  Sullivan's 
alternative  solutions  of  the  problem  in  esthetic  expression  raised  by  the 
skyscraper  retain  their  validity  as  points  of  departure  for  twentieth- 
century  designers,  despite  repeated  attempts  on  the  part  of  the  bookish 
to  immobilize  the  flexible  space-crate  in  archaeological  casts. 

In  the  nineties  Sullivan's  disciple,  Frank  Lloyd  Wright  (1869-  ), 
already  sensitive  to  the  sophisticated  clarity  and  love  of  nature  explicit  in 
the  arts  of  Japan— where  he  was  to  practice  occasionally  after  his  first 
visit  in  1906— began  to  revolutionize  the  design  of  the  private  house  with 
something  of  the  experimental  daring  that  had  brought  to  realization  the 
skyscraper.  By  recomposing  the  blocky  forms  of  the  vertical  solution  and 
the  flowing  spaces  of  the  horizontal  into  dynamically  interpenetrating 
masses  and  volumes,  their  shaded  surfaces  enlivened  with  contrasting 
textures  and  colors  and  their  furnishings  built  in  instead  of  filled  in, 
Wright  endeavored  to  make  the  individual  home  an  organic  outgrowth 
of  its  natural  surroundings  and  a  refuge  from  the  incoherent  disorder  of 
modern  life. 

No  aspect  of  the  American  scene  exhibits  the  restlessness  and  mobility 
of  the  American  people  better  than  architecture.  The  cheerful  alacrity 
with  which  older  houses  were  abandoned  to  encroaching  commerce  was 
as  characteristic  as  the  speed  with  which  new  dwellings  were  put  up  in 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  587 

the  suburbs,  and  even  skyscrapers  were  often  razed  after  a  few  decades 
of  usefulness. 


In  music  the  period  saw  the  production  of  many  a  minstrel  song  and 
of  numerous  popular  airs  which  still  cling  to  the  memory,  like  "In  the 
Evening  by  the  Moonlight,"  "When  You  and  I  Were  Young,  Maggie," 
and  "Silver  Threads*  among  the  Gold";  the  Negro  spirituals  came  into 
their  first  real  vogue  through  the  singing  of  the  Fisk  Jubilee  Singers;  a 
number  of  the  cowboy  songs  were  first  composed;  and  the  ancestor  of 
jazz,  called  ragtime,  became  prevalent  about  1895.  The  composition  of 
music  of  a  more  formal  character  languished.  Among  the  first  native 
composers  of  fame  was  John  Knowles  Paine  (1839- 1906),  whose  activi- 
ties after  1870  were  intimately  connected  with  Harvard,  where  he  be- 
came the  first  professor  of  music.  Very  rarely  now  does  one  hear  his 
works.  This  is  less  true  of  George  Whitefield  Chadwick  (1 854-1 931)  and 
Horatio  William  Parker  (1863-1919),  two  other  New  Englanders.  The 
latter 's  oratorio  Hora  Novissima  and  a  considerable  number  of  his  anthems 
are  still  heard;  his  opera  Mona  (191 1),  though  performed  only  a  few 
times,  is  one  of  the  most  meritorious  of  native  music  dramas.  By  far  the 
most  distinguished  American  composer  of  all  was  Edward  Alexander 
MacDowell  (1 861- 1908),  though  he  is  now  known  principally  for  minor 
productions,  among  them  "To  a  Wild  Rose"  and  "To  a  Water  Lily," 
from  Woodland  Sketches  (1896).  His  more  consequential  works  for  the 
piano,  including  four  sonatas  and  two  concertos,  are  by  no  means  passe. 
Of  his  several  major  compositions  for  the  orchestra  a  high  place  is  as- 
signed to  the  so-called  Indian  Suite,  the  thematic  material  of  which  was 
suggested  by  melodies  of  the  American  Indians.  This  suite  was  dedicated 
to  the  Boston  Symphony  Orchestra,  which  gave  it  a  first  performance  in 
1896.  Songs,  like  "Thy  Beaming  Eyes"  and  "The  Sea,"  the  latter  with 
words  by  Howells,  are  also  to  be  listed  among  his  worthy  efforts.  Some- 
thing of  MacDowell's  high  position  was  due  to  a  thorough  musical  educa- 
tion acquired  in  France  and  Germany,  where  he  spent  ten  years  of  his 
life  and  where,  with  the  sponsorship  of  Liszt,  his  first  compositions  were 
published.  Returning  from  Europe  to  Boston  in  1888,  he  was  later  in- 
vited to  become  the  first  professor  of  music  at  Columbia  University,  a 
position  which  he  resigned  after  a  few  years.  The  little  farm  which  he 
owned  at  Peterboro,  New  Hampshire,  was  converted  after  his  death  into 
a  summer  refuge  for  artists  and  poets,  and  it  was  there  that  Edwin  Arling- 
ton Robinson  passed  many  productive  months. 

In  light  opera  the  most  eminent  American  composer  during  the  nineties 
was  Reginald  De  Koven  (1859- 1920),  whose  melodious  Robin  Hood 
( 1 890)  is  still  revived.  The  closing  years  of  the  century  saw  also  the  first 
productions  of  the  operettas  of  tuneful  Victor  Herbert    (1 859-1924). 


588  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Surpassing  all  our  musicians  of  the  period  in  international  popularity  was 
the  band-leader  John  Philip  Sousa  (1854-1932).  His  stirring  airs,  like 
"The  Washington  Post  March"  (1889)  an<^  "The  Stars  and  Stripes  For- 
ever" (1897),  made  him  not  only  "March  King"  of  the  nineties  but  god- 
father of  the  new  dance  called  the  two-step.  For  the  large  number  of 
excellent  symphony  orchestras  which  now  ornament  the  country  the 
groundwork  was  laid  by  such  conductors  as  Leopold  Damrosch  ( 1832- 
85)  and  Theodore  Thomas  (1835- 1905);  but  the  only  symphony  of 
international  renown  from  the  New  World  was  the  one  composed  by  the 
Bohemian  Antonin  Dvorak,  who  served  from  1892  to  1895  as  director 
of  the  National  Conservatory  in  New  York.  In  literature,  fortunately,  the 
nation  fared  better. 


As  a  result  of  the  democratic  system  of  education  at  public  expense, 
the  reading  population  of  the  United  States  was  already  in  i860  larger  in 
proportion  than  elsewhere  in  the  world,  although  its  voracious  appetite 
was  satisfied  chiefly  by  newspapers.  But  America  was  also  a  notable  con- 
sumer of  books.  As  public  schools  and  Sunday  schools  increased  apace, 
textbooks  and  religious  works  were  in  growing  demand,  yet  bookstores 
were  few  in  number.  There  was,  however,  much  direct  buying  from 
publishers,  especially  at  the  Christmas  season,  and  many  department 
stores  offered  reading  matter  for  sale.  Taste  was  conservative,  and  authors 
of  established  reputation  were  preferred,  for  the  book-reading  public 
was  a  simply  conditioned,  common-schooled  mass,  zealous  for  instruction 
and  improvement  and  eager  to  be  entertained.  Its  books  were  purchased 
with  an  eye  to  the  demands  of  the  entire  family.  Such  writers  of  juveniles 
as  Louisa  May  Alcott  (1832-88)  and  Horatio  Alger  (1834-99)  were  read 
by  parents  also,  and  the  new  novels  and  biographies  were  often  enjoyed 
by  the  children.  Like  many  another  father,  Ho  wells  rejoiced  that  his 
novels  contained  no  "palpitating  divans"  when  he  observed  his  own  son 
reading  one  of  them.  For  the  most  part,  the  fate  of  a  book  was  decided 
by  the  women  and  children  who  formed  the  largest  element  among  the 
book  readers.  Of  very  considerable  consequence  was  the  price  at  which 
a  volume  was  sold;  and  when  the  dime  novels  of  the  sixties  penetrated  to 
a  new  level  of  book  readers,  the  publishers,  led  by  a  new  group  in  Chi- 
cago, vied  with  one  another  in  exploiting  the  market  by  issuing  paper- 
bound  volumes  in  series,  like  the  "Lakeside  Library,"  the  "Seaside  Li- 
brary," or  the  "Franklin  Square  Library."  As  a  result  of  lower  postal 
rates  for  these  paper-backs,  new  distributing  agencies,  and  cutthroat 
competition  among  the  hundred  or  more  publishers  issuing  these  cheap 
series,  the  country  was  inundated  with  flimsily  bound  volumes,  sold  di- 
rectly to  consumers  or  bought  at  newsstands,  in  railroad  cars,  or  in  dry- 
goods  stores.  The  average  price  seems  to  have  been  twenty  or  thirty 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  589 

cents,  but  at  times  the  department  stores  offered  special  lots  at  six  cents, 
and  there  is  record  of  three  cents  as  the  cost  of  several  of  Shakespeare's 
plays  sold  in  1880.15 

Such  books  could  be  produced  only  by  cutting  expenses,  and  rarely 
was  an  author  paid  a  royalty.  Titles  by  Americans  like  Irving  and  Cooper 
which  were  out  of  copyright  were  put  into  the  competition;  but  in  gen- 
eral these  series  preyed  upon  the  British  author,  for  until  1891  there  was 
no  international  copyright  law  in  the  United  States  to  protect  his  interests. 
Within  eight  years  after  its  start  in  1882,  "Lovell's  Library"  had  issued 
1,490  different  titles,  chiefly  of  English  fiction,  though  Carlyle  and 
Ruskin  were  also  on  the  list,  and  the  publisher  boasted  that  in  his  best 
years  he  sold  seven  million  volumes  annually.16  Probably  the  most  widely 
read  author  of  the  time  was  Dickens,  and  when  he  revisited  this  country 
in  1867  two  lines  of  people  nearly  a  mile  long  waited  all  night  in  the 
December  cold  of  New  York  City  to  obtain  seats  for  his  lecture,  and 
thirty-one  different  editions  of  his  collected  works  rolled  from  American 
presses  within  the  year.17  The  whole  corpus  of  contemporary  British 
literature  appeared  on  the  American  market,  and  translations  of  Con- 
tinental works  also  abounded,  especially  of  fiction.  There  is  no  need  to 
wonder  whether  Stephen  Crane  had  read  Zola  before  writing  Maggie  or 
The  Red  Badge  of  Courage;  he  could  scarcely  have  escaped  one  of  the 
paper-backed  Zolas  in  a  dozen  or  more  of  the  cheap  series.  In  fact,  very 
probably  at  no  other  time  has  the  American  reader  had  such  easy  and 
inexpensive  access  to  translations  of  current  European  authors  as  marked 
the  period.18 

The  American  author,  of  course,  suffered  from  the  piratical  competi- 
tion. During  the  seventies,  when  the  new  craze  for  cheap  books  occasioned 
a  mad  scramble  among  the  publishers,  attempts  were  made  to  put  works 
by  native  writers  into  the  "libraries,"  but  reckless  price-cutting  made  the 
payment  of  even  modest  royalties  seem  like  unnecessary  extravagance, 
and  consequently  the  newer  American  authors  were  left  to  be  published 
in  the  smaller  editions  brought  out  in  more  expensive  format  for  the 

15  Raymond  H.  Shove,  Cheap  Book  Production  in  the  United  States,  1870  to  1891 
(1937),  p.  90.  On  a  considerably  smaller  scale,  there  had  been  a  spate  of  cheap  books 
in  the  forties,  but  a  "gentleman's  agreement"  among  the  publishers  had  restricted 
competition. 

16  Shove,  Cheap  Book  Production,  pp.  79-81. 

17  Allan  Nevins,  The  Emergence  of  Modern  America,  1865-1878  (1932),  pp.  230- 
231.  For  the  pirating  of  American  books  in  England  during  the  same  period,  see 
Clarence  Gohdes,  American  Literature  in  Nineteenth -Century  England  (1944),  Chap. 
I,  "The  Booktrade." 

18  The  Publishers'  Weekly  reported,  among  others,  translations  of  the  following 
Continental  authors  during  the  year  1891:  Balzac,  Bourget,  Coppee,  Daudet,  Arene, 
de  la  Brete,  Theuriet,  Enault,  Rabusson,  Verne,  Loti,  d'Aurevilly,  Belot,  Halevy,  the 
Goncourts,  Tinseau,  Sudermann,  Franzos,  Wichert,  Alarcon,  Pardo  Bazan,  Palacio 
Valdes,  Valera,  Kraszewski,  Potapehko,  Grigorovitch,  Danielevski,  Tolstoi,  Zagoskin, 
Nemec,  Van  Lennep,  Coelho,  Kielland,  Jokai,  and  Serao. 


59o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Christmas  trade.19  A  few,  like  Mark  Twain,  were  lucky  in  obtaining  the 
de  luxe  publication  afforded  by  the  subscription  houses,  whose  agents  sold 
books  from  house  to  house.  Especially  in  the  eighties,  in  order  to  pad 
lists  with  new  titles  which  competitors  could  not  pirate,  certain  publishers 
put  a  few  of  their  newer  authors  into  the  paper-backs  also,  but  the  pay- 
ments must  have  been  small.  It  was  not  until  the  copyright  act  of  1891 
cut  off  the  chief  source  of  cheap  books  that  the  average  native  author 
had  a  fair  chance  of  competing  in  the  bookmarket.  Even  then,  it  should 
be  remembered,  the  public  was  so  accustomed  to  reading  works  by  Eng- 
lish authors  that  its  demands  were  not  summarily  transformed.  Records 
for  the  year  1899,  as  reported  by  The  Publishers'  Weekly  for  January  27, 
1900,  show  457  titles  of  new  fiction  or  reprints  by  American  writers  and 
354  titles  by  foreigners,  plus  121  works  of  fiction  imported  in  sheets 
from  England.  In  poetry  the  figures  ran:  229  native,  39  foreign,  and  65 
imported  in  sheets. 

Of  course,  despite  the  competition  with  the  cheap  reprints,  both  be- 
fore and  after  1891  certain  new  works  by  Americans  became  best  sellers, 
although  it  was  not  until  the  late  nineties,  with  the  fabulous  sales  of  histori- 
cal romances,  that  best-selling  new  books  acquired  their  modern  pace.  In 
general,  volumes  of  humor,  like  Helenas  Babies  (1876),  by  John  Habber- 
ton  (1842-192 1 ),  or  the  sentimental  novels  of  such  authors  as  Mary  Jane 
Holmes  (1 825-1907)  and  Edward  Payson  Roe  (1838-88)  succeeded  best. 
Religious  fiction  was  also  in  great  demand,  and  Ben-Hur  (1880),  by  Lew 
Wallace,  gained  such  a  reputation  for  its  author  that  his  turgid  story 
called  The  Prince  of  India,  even  though  brought  out  during  the  panic 
of  1893,  s°ld  100,000  copies  in  six  months.  The  new  novel  which  holds 
the  record  for  popularity  during  the  period  was  In  His  Steps  (1896),  by 
the  Reverend  Charles  Monroe  Sheldon  (1857-1946),  a  story  of  a  clergy- 
man who  attempted  to  follow  the  example  of  Jesus  in  his  daily  tasks.  Its 
sale,  sometimes  reckoned  at  6,000,000  copies  in  two  dozen  languages, 
received  an  initial  impulse  when  the  discovery  was  made  that  the  original 
publisher  had  failed  to  satisfy  the  copyright  requirements.  A  New  York 
Herald  reporter,  Henry  Aiorton  Stanley  (1 841 -1904),  scored  a  notable 
triumph  with  How  I  Found  Livingstone  (1872),  and  Ulysses  S.  Grant's 
Personal  Memoirs,  published  by  Mark  Twain's  subscription  firm  in  1885- 
86,  topped  the  record  of  its  period  in  biography.  But  all  such  works  were 
highly  exceptional.  Before  1891  probably  the  only  new  American  novel 
since  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  to  reach  the  300,000  figure  within  two  years  of 
first  publication  was  Edward  Bellamy's  Looking  Backward  (1888).  Frank 
Stockton's  Rudder  Grange  (1879)  wns  judged  very  successful  when 
40,000  copies  were  disposed  of  in  a  dozen  years,  and  Howells  rubbed  his 
hands  with  joy  when  A  Hazard  of  New  Fortunes  (1889)  sold  "well  on  to 

1 !'  A  common  practice  was  to  issue  a  book  in  November  or  December  but  date  it 
as  of  the  following  year. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE 


59i 


eighteen  thousand"  copies  in  nine  months  and  The  Shadow  of  a  Dream 
(1890)  nearly  eight  thousand  in  four.  At  the  height  of  his  career  Laf- 
cadio  Hearn  thought  that  a  sale  of  twenty  thousand  in  a  year  and  a  half 
would  cause  an  author  to  be  rated  a  "big  success."  20 

A  good  analysis  of  the  taste  for  books  by  American  authors  is  supplied 
by  the  records  for  the  years  1882-87  °f  an  unidentified  wholesaler  whose 
trade  covered  the  northern  half  of  the  Mississippi  Valley.  The  combined 
sales  of  the  author  in  greatest  demand  were  evaluated  at  one  thousand, 
and  the  aggregates  of  the  others  were  reduced  in  proportion  21  : 


Prose  Fiction 

Poetry 

Edward  P.  Roe 

1,000 

Henry  W.  Longfellow 

335 

Mary  J.  Holmes 

342 

Will  Carleton 

215 

Louisa  M.  Alcott 

282 

John  G.  Whittier 

139 

Harriet  B.  Stowe 

122 

William  C.  Bryant 

28 

May  A.  Fleming 

no 

Alice  and  Phoebe  Cary 

25 

Lew  Wallace 

100 

Bret  Harte 

22 

Mary  V.  Terhune 

79 

Ralph  W.  Emerson 

l5 

Mrs.  E.  D.  E.  N.  Southworth 

61 

John  G.  Saxe 

15 

Albion  W.  Tourgee 

54 

Benjamin  F.  Taylor 

!4 

James  F.  Cooper 

52 

James  R.  Lowell 

13 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne 

5° 

Oliver  W.  Holmes 

10 

Edward  Eggleston 

46 

Thomas  B.  Aldrich 

8 

F.  Marion  Crawford 

41 

Bayard  Taylor 

6 

Helen  H.  Jackson 

3° 

Edgar  A.  Poe 

5 

Frances  H.  Burnett 

18 

Edmund  C.  Stedman 

4 

George  W.  Cable 

H 

Walt  Whitman 

2 

Frank  Stockton 

!4 

William  D.  Howells 

H 

Thomas  B.  Aldrich 

6 

Henry  James 

1 

The  book-reading  taste  of  the  country  at  large  must  have  been  close  to 
that  indicated  by  the  above  figures.  In  Boston  the  Public  Library  reported 
in  1872  that  the  favorites  in  greatest  demand  were  Mrs.  E.  D.  E.  N.  South- 
worth,  Caroline  L.  Hentz,  and  Mary  J.  Holmes!  22 


20  Martin  I.  J.  Griffin,  Frank  Stockton:  A  Critical  Biography  (Philadelphia,  1939), 
p.  46  n.;  Howells  to  T.  S.  Perry,  September  9,  1890,  unpublished  MS;  Elizabeth  Bisland, 
The  Life  and  Letters  of  Lafcadio  Hearn   (Boston  and  New  York  [1906]),  Vol.  2, 

P-  377- 

21  Statistics  compiled  for  The  Critic,  N.  S.,  Vol.  8  (Aug.  27,  1887),  p.  99.  In  history 
the  record  was:  Prescott  (35),  Bancroft  (29),  Motley  (7),  Parkman  (2),  McMaster 
(2).  Note  that  subscription  books,  such  as  those  by  Mark  Twain,  do  not  appear  in 
the  list;  nor  do,  presumably,  the  works  published  in  the  series  or  "libraries." 

22Nevins,  The  Emergence  of  Modern  America,  p.  234. 


592  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

As  a  consequence  of  the  state  of  the  book  market  there  is  small  wonder 
that  the  better  authors  of  the  period  were  more  periodical-minded  than 
their  predecessors;  almost  all  of  them  received  first  publication  in  the 
newspapers  and  derived  their  chief  income  later  from  the  magazines.  An 
editorial  in  The  Publishers'  Weekly  for  June  27,  1885,  summed  up  the 
situation  as  follows: 

The  successful  men  of  to-day  are  those  who  look  to  the  magazines,  rather 

than  to  publishers  of  books  as  such,  for  the  greater  part  of  their  income 

In  these  days  the  American  author  finds  two  difficulties  before  him.  Cheap 
reprints  make  people  most  unwilling  to  pay  an  American  author  his  share  on 
a  dollar  book  when  they  can  get  a  cheap  reprint,  which  pays  no  author  any- 
thing, for  fifteen  or  twenty  cents.  Secondly,  the  demoralization  of  the  book- 
trade  through  the  cheap  reprints  and  through  the  system  of  discounts  and 
underselling  is  such  that  there  are  now  few  real  booksellers  to  present  the 
works  of  live  authors,  especially  new  authors. . . . 

During  the  same  year,  an  experienced  Boston  publisher  informed  an 
inquirer  that  nearly  always  he  required  his  authors  to  bear  a  part  of  the 
expense  of  a  first  edition— "always  when  they  are  new  writers";  and  in 
1893  Howells  bluntly  declared,  "In  belles-lettres,  at  least,  most  of  the  best 
literature  now  sees  the  light  in  the  magazines,  and  most  of  the  second-best 
appears  first  in  book  form."  23  No  major  author  of  the  period  was  more 
successful  with  his  books  than  Mark  Twain,  yet  in  the  nineties  even  he 
turned  more  and  more  to  the  magazines,  and  he  had  no  more  qualms  about 
covering  the  jubilee  celebration  of  Queen  Victoria  for  the  Hearst  papers 
than  did  Stephen  Crane  in  accepting  an  assignment  from  the  same  source 
to  write  up  the  war  between  the  Greeks  and  the  Turks.  Henrv  James 
was  doubtless  pleased  when  Collier's  Weekly  published  "The  Turn  of 
the  Screw"  (1898).  Even  though  print  had  been  as  far  from  Emily 
Dickinson's  thoughts  as  firmament  from  fin,  The  Independent  and  St. 
Nicholas  brought  out  some  of  her  poems  soon  after  her  first  volume  gave 
her  name  to  the  public  in  1890. 

Before  the  time  of  the  Civil  War  there  were  so  many  periodicals  that 
no  one  could  count  them,  and  thereafter  the  number  grew  bv  leaps  and 
bounds.  In  1873  an  indefatigable  and  systematic  man  named  Ernst  Steiger 
published  a  study  of  The  Periodical  Literature  of  the  United  States,  which 
listed  8,081  newspapers  and  other  journals  for  the  country,  religious  peri- 
odicals being  the  largest  group  next  to  newspapers.  In  1887  an  estimate 
gave  642  periodicals  of  all  sorts  for  New  York  City  alone;  and  two  years 
later  the  total  for  the  country  as  a  whole  was  reckoned  at  16,3 10,  of  which 
1,792  were  monthly  publications.  In  1907  even  an  old  hand  in  journalism 
like  Howells  was  shocked  to  find  that  New  York  was  the  seat  of  about 

23  "The  Man  of  Letters  as  a  Man  of  Business,"  Literature  and  Life  (New  York  and 
London  I  [91 1  I),  p.  9.  Howells's  novel  The  World  of  Chance  (1893)  contains  a  good 
account  of  the  difficulties  besetting  a  young  author  in  obtaining  a  publisher. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  593 

forty-five  monthly  magazines  "devoted  to  belles-lettres,"  most  of  them 
priced  at  ten  cents.24 

No  one  surveying  the  literature  of  the  epoch  can  afford  to  neglect  its 
great  monthly  magazines,  for  in  their  serialized  novels,  short  stories, 
poems,  essays,  and  critiques  one  finds  practically  all  of  the  best  writing  of 
the  age.  Their  total  number  is  staggering,  but  the  most  eminent  can  easily 
be  selected  from  the  lot.  In  1872  the  six  most  cherished  for  their  literary 
contents,  though  they  were  not  confined  solely  to  belles-lettres,  were: 
Harper's  New  Monthly  Magazine,  Scribnefs  Monthly,  The  Atlantic 
Monthly,  Old  and  New,  The  Galaxy,  and  Lippincotfs  Magazine. 

Highest  in  literary  quality,  but  not  in  circulation,  was  The  Atlantic. 
Established  in  1857  with  Lowell  as  first  editor,  it  immediately  accumulated 
prestige  and  patronage  (in  1867  its  circulation  was  reckoned  at  60,000), 
for  it  had  almost  a  monopoly  of  the  work  of  the  leading  New  England 
authors,  ranging  from  Mrs.  Stowe  to  Emerson.  For  a  time,  it  succeeded 
in  obtaining  contributions  from  younger  authors  like  Bret  Harte  and 
Mark  Twain,  and  it  serialized  novels  by  the  three  chief  realists  of  the 
seventies,  Howells,  James,  and  DeForest.  Several  of  the  most  popular 
short  stories  of  the  day  also  appeared  in  its  pages,  such  as  "Marjorie  Daw" 
(1873),  by  Aldrich.  In  1866  Howells  went  to  Boston  to  assist  in  editing 
it,  and  for  ten  years  (1 871-81)  he  was  fully  in  charge.  He  was  succeeded 
by  Aldrich  (1881-90)  and  Horace  E.  Scudder  (1890-98),  who  is  said  to 
have  read  Latin  or  Greek  authors  for  a  half  hour  each  morning  to  whet 
his  sense  of  style.  After  the  departure  of  Howells  the  magazine  suffered 
from  increasing  competition  with  illustrated  rivals  and  from  the  instability 
of  the  various  firms  which  published  it.  In  the  late  nineties,  when  its 
financial  condition  was  indeed  precarious,  it  was  still  considered  the  most 
"scholarly"  of  the  monthlies,  and  its  contributors  carried  away  distinction 
if  not  the  largest  checks.  Its  survival  to  the  present  day  has  been  due  to 
a  shift  in  policy,  but  its  distinctly  literary  features  are  still  of  a  relatively 
high  order.  During  its  earlier  history  it  influenced  a  number  of  other 
journals,  like  The  Galaxy  (1866-78),  whose  subscription  list  it  absorbed, 
The  Overland  Monthly  (1868-75;  1883-1935),  first  edited  in  San  Francisco 
by  Bret  Harte,  and  The  Lakeside  Monthly  (1871-74),  "to  this  day  the 
most  important  general  literary  magazine  of  a  consistently  high  class  ever 
published  in  Chicago."  25  The  Atlantic  was  not  without  influence  abroad 
also,  for  Thackeray  and  Leslie  Stephen  seem  to  have  borrowed  ideas  for 
The  Cornhill  Magazine  from  it,  and  one  of  Darwin's  first  steps  in  battling 
the  opponents  of  The  Origin  of  Species  was  to  circulate  reprints  of 
articles  from  its  pages. 

The  most  successful  of  the  quality  monthlies  were  illustrated  with 

24  "The  Magazine  Muse,"  Imaginary  Interviews  (New  York  and  London,  1910), 
p.  138. 

25  Frank  L.  Mott,  A  History  of  American  Magazines,  1865-1885    (1938),   p.   416. 


594  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

woodcuts,  and  several  of  them  reached  such  technical  perfection  in  the 
eighties  that  thev  were  acknowledged  to  be  without  peer  in  Europe.  At 
least  two  of  them  for  a  time  had  circulations  in  England  larger  than  those 
which  any  of  their  British  rivals  could  boast.  Of  these,  Harper's  during 
the  sixties  was  the  most  prosperous.  Started  in  New  York  in  1850  partially 
as  an  "eclectic"  magazine,  it  soon  ceased  reprinting  material  from  English 
journals  but  for  many  years  still  maintained  its  preference  for  serial  novels 
from  abroad.  Under  the  protracted  editorship  (1869- 19 19)  of  Henry 
Mills  Alden  it  became  very  prominent  as  an  outlet  for  American  writers. 
"The  Editor's  Easy  Chair,"  most  famous  department  of  any  American 
magazine,  was  under  the  charge  of  a  number  of  admired  essayists,  at  first 
Donald  Grant  Mitchell,  then  George  William  Curtis,  and,  from  1900  to 
the  time  of  his  death,  William  Dean  Howells.  But  as  early  as  1885  Howells 
had  assumed  an  editorial  post  with  Harper's,  a  date  sometimes  used  to 
mark  the  end  of  New  England  hegemony  in  American  literature.  How- 
ever, there  had  been  previous  signs  of  Boston's  decline  to  the  status  of  an 
"aoristic  Athens,"  especially  the  transfer  in  1878  of  the  venerable  North 
American  Review  to  New  York,  a  city  which  had  become  the  publishing- 
center  of  the  United  States  after  Philadelphia  yielded  the  palm  at  the 
end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  In  1880  Harper's  instituted  an  English 
edition,  for  a  time  under  the  editorship  of  Andrew  Lang,  and  within  a 
few  years  its  British  circulation  was  reported  as  "over  50,000  copies."  To- 
day, Harper's  is  of  far  less  importance  to  literature. 

Another  valued  illustrated  periodical  was  Scribner's  Monthly  (1870- 
81),  which  fared  so  well  under  the  hand  of  the  popular  essayist,  novelist, 
and  poet  Josiah  Gilbert  Holland  that  its  methods  affected  the  policies  of 
all  the  great  monthly  magazines  of  the  era.  From  the  beginning,  it  favored 
the  American  contributor,  encouraged  writers  from  various  regions  to 
deal  with  their  own  sections,  and  forced  the  payment  of  authors  to  a 
higher  level  by  competing  for  the  work  of  the  newer  men— among  them 
Eggleston,  Howells,  James,  Harte,  and,  later,  Marion  Crawford  and  S. 
Weir  Mitchell.  Its  almost  startling  prosperity  was  in  great  measure  due 
to  numerous  illustrations  of  a  superior  order.  In  1881  the  Scribner  interest 
was  bought  off,  the  name  was  changed  to  The  Century  Illustrated  Monthly 
Magazine,  and  another  poet,  Richard  Watson  Gilder,  became  editor 
( 1 88 1 -1909).  Of  its  many  famous  short  stories  perhaps  the  most  successful 
in  arousing  interest  at  the  time  was  Frank  Stockton's  "The  Lady  or  the 
Tiger?"  (1882),  for  which  fifty  dollars  was  paid.  In  1929  The  Century 
became  a  quarterly  and  during  the  next  year  was  merged  with  The  Forum 
(1886- 1940),  a  journal  of  opinion  which,  with  The  North  American  Re- 
view and  The  Nation  (1865-  ),  furnished  able  discussion  of  public 
issues  current  during  the  period.  Of  all  the  magazines  which  encouraged 
the  local-color  movement,  Scribner' s-Century  was  probably  the  most 
important. 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  595 

A  third  notable  monthly  of  the  illustrated  variety  was  Scribner's 
Magazine  (1887- 1939),  which  emulated  the  dignified  methods  of  Harper's 
and  The  Century  but  lowered  its  price  from  thirty-five  to  twenty-five 
cents.  For  a  time  it  had  a  very  large  circulation.  By  competing  for  the 
same  authors  who  contributed  to  its  competitors  it  aided  in  raising 
further  the  prices  offered  for  literary  wares,  to  a  level  beyond  that  paid 
in  any  other  country  for  magazine  work.  It,  too,  had  a  substantial  fol- 
lowing in  England  for  a  number  of  years  and  in  1888  contemplated  an 
Australian  edition. 

But  these  estimable  monthlies,  with  their  appeal  to  the  genteel  families 
of  America  and  England,  were  all  too  soon  in  an  economic  decline.  At 
the  end  of  the  century  The  Atlantic  was  barely  surviving,  and  the  circu- 
lation of  Harper's  and  The  Century  had  dropped  to  150,000.  Scribnefs 
Magazine  had  a  larger  clientele  because  of  its  lower  price,  but  the  heyday 
of  the  old  quality  monthlies  was  over.  With  the  advent  of  the  half- 
tone, illustrations  could  be  made  cheaply  for  any  periodical  which 
wanted  them,  and,  above  all,  newer  policies  and  less  artistic  material 
could  be  shown  to  attract  subscribers  in  such  number  that  advertisers 
would  shift  their  patronage.  The  day  of  the  modern  advertising-manager 
was  at  hand.  As  was  the  case  in  the  sphere  of  newspaper  journalism,  the 
popular  magazine  business  during  the  late  nineties  was  marked  by  a  new 
vulgarization  calculated  to  promote  income  at  the  expense  of  every- 
thing else.  McClure's  Magazine  (1893-1929),  sold  for  fifteen  cents,  was 
one  of  the  newer  variety  to  drive  the  older  monthlies  against  the  ropes. 
Another  was  Munsey's  (1889-1929),  which  began  as  a  weekly  but 
in  1 89 1  became  a  "human  interest"  monthly  priced  at  ten  cents.  The 
Cosmopolitan,  founded  in  1886  as  a  conservative  family  journal,  soon  dis- 
covered that  McClure's  was  a  more  profitable  model  than  The  Century 
—and  there  were  others,  many  others.  During  the  muckraking  and  "Pro- 
gressive" era  early  in  the  present  century,  their  circulation  boomed  into 
astounding  figures,  but  already  in  1900  Munsey's  circulated  650,000 
copies. 

In  considering  American  monthly  magazines  of  large  circulation,  one 
should  remember  that  those  aimed  especially  at  the  taste  and  interests  of 
women  were— and  are— of  great  importance.  One  of  the  longest-lived  of 
this  class  was  Godey's  Lady's  Book,  founded  in  Philadelphia  in  1830  but 
removed  in  1892  to  New  York,  where  six  years  later  it  was  absorbed 
by  Munsey's  Puritan,  a  name  which  gives  the  lie  to  the  popular  idea  of 
the  "gay"  nineties.  The  Ladies'  Home  Journal  was  established  in  1883 
by  C.  H.  K.  Curtis  as  an  eight-page  paper.  Nine  years  later  it  had  a  circu- 
lation of  700,000,  and  throve  as  a  business  enterprise  under  the  editorship 
(1899- 1 920)  of  Edward  W.  Bok.  Another  of  the  Curtis  publications,  the 
weekly  Saturday  Evening  Post,  was  founded  in  1821,  but  not  by  the 
ghost  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  and  was  bought  for  a  trifling  sum  by  Curtis 


596  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  1897;  during  the  editorship  (1 899-1937)  of  George  H.  Lorimer  its 
circulation  jumped  from  18,000  to  3,000,000. 

It  is  apparent  that  one  of  the  major  developments  in  the  history  of 
magazines,  especially  noticeable  since  the  nineties,  has  been  the  diversifi- 
cation of  offerings  and  the  cultivation  of  a  style  nearer  that  of  the  news- 
papers, in  order  to  attract  the  largest  number  of  subscribers.  As  a  result, 
the  magazines  of  wide  circulation  have  become  less  "literary"  in  every 
sense  of  that  word.  But  there  has  been  also,  especially  since  the  eighties, 
an  exactly  opposite  tendency,  namely,  a  fabulous  increase  in  the  number 
of  journals  which  have  concentrated  on  so  narrow  a  specialty,  some- 
times of  a  highly  intellectual  nature,  that  little  or  no  effort  was  made  to 
attract  subscribers.  For  example,  the  American  Historical  Association, 
founded  in  1884,  eleven  years  later  began  publishing  The  American 
Historical  Review,  an  official  organ.  The  Modern  Language  Association 
of  America,  of  which  Lowell  was  the  second  president,  waited  only  a 
year  after  organization  in  1883  to  found  its  official  Publications,  best 
known  as  PMLA. 

Less  scholarly  than  such  journals,  but  more  important  for  the  reflec- 
tion of  literary  taste,  is  an  array  of  periodicals  concerned  with  literary 
discussion  and  the  review  of  books,  chiefly  in  the  domain  of  belles- 
lettres.  Some  of  them,  like  the  Chicago  Chap-Book  (1894-98)  and  the 
San  Francisco  Lark  (1895-97)  were  of  the  order  of  the  "little  maga- 
zines" 26  which  have  undertaken  in  the  present  century  to  bear  the  light 
of  literature  in  a  naughty  world  of  "journalistic"  periodicals.  Another 
example  is  Poet  Lore,  which  first  appeared  in  Philadelphia  in  1889  as  a 
monthly  "devoted  to  Shakespeare,  Browning,  and  the  comparative  study 
of  literature."  Tennyson  also  received  a  good  share  of  attention,  but 
gradually  native  poets,  especially  Whitman,  were  given  notice,  and  in 
1892  the  magazine  was  transferred  to  Boston,  where  it  soon  became  a 
quarterly  with  a  more  catholic  interest  in  letters.  A4ost  of  these  literary 
journals,  however,  were  more  nearly  like  such  British  book-reviewing 
organs  as  The  Athenceum,  The  Academy,  or  The  Saturday  Review.  A 
few  are  listed  here: 

The  Literary  World  (Boston,  1870- 1904) 

The  Dial  (Chicago,  later  New  York,  1880-1929) 

The  Critic  (New  York,  1 881- 1906) 

Book  News  (Philadelphia,  1882-1918) 

Book  Chat  (New  York,  1886-93) 

Book  Reviews  (New  York,  1893-1901) 

The  Literary  Era  (Philadelphia,  1894-1901) 

2';For  a  list  of  "little  magazines"  1890-1946,  now  in  the  New  York  Public  Library, 
sec  its  Bulletin,  Vol.  51  (Jan.  1947),  PP-  3_25-  A  study  exists:  Frederick  J.  Hoffman, 
Charles  Allen,  and  Carolyn  F.  Ulrich,  The  Little  Magazine:  A  History  and  a 
Bibliography  (Princeton,  1946). 


THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE  597 

The  Bookman  (New  York,  1895- 193 3) 
Literature  (New  York,  1897-99) 

The  most  important  of  these  were  probably  The  Critic,  The  Dial,  and 
The  Bookman,  all  three  fairly  competent  journals,  somewhat  different  of 
course,  but  in  their  way  possibly  superior  to  The  Saturday  Review  of 
Literature,  the  leading  contemporary  example  of  the  type.  Of  the  several 
magazines  especially  dedicated  to  literature  which  have  been  mentioned, 
Poet  Lore  alone  survives,  a  fact  which  reminds  one  not  only  of  the  un- 
stable nature  of  periodical  publication  but  of  the  fearful  competition, 
particularly  that  offered  by  the  weekly  book  sections  of  the  newspapers, 
which  have  increased  in  influence  and  in  number  during  the  present  cen- 
tury. 

Since  the  day  when  the  great  monthlies  like  The  Atlantic,  The  Cen- 
tury, and  Harper's  were  in  fullest  flower,  no  literary  journals  have  wielded 
so  great  an  influence  upon  cultivated  Americans,  for  they  helped  to 
emancipate  American  literature  from  European  dominance  27  and  were 
honored  as  servants  of  culture  and  guardians  of  good  taste.  The  peculiar 
qualities,  both  good  and  bad,  of  American  literature  during  the  later 
nineteenth  century  are  directly  mirrored  in  these  magazines.  They  domi- 
nated the  age. 

27  Charles  D.  Warner,  "England"  (1882),  The  Complete  Writings  of  Charles 
Dudley  Warner  (Hartford,  1904),  Vol.  15,  p.  218. 


Chapter  30 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE 


Both  the  booktrade  and  the  traffic  in  magazines  unconsciously  reflected 
the  democratic  nature  of  American  society,  for  there  was  no  tradition  of 
a  literary  aristocracy.  Even  the  most  distinguished  products  of  American 
literature  were,  more  so  than  at  present,  written  for  the  people  by  the 
people— for  the  most  part  unconsciously  so.  The  newspapers,  however, 
more  overtly  expressed  the  peculiarities,  social  and  political,  of  American 
society  and  reflected  the  doctrines  of  liberty,  equality,  and  fraternity, 
though  they  did  so  from  a  partisan  angle.  As  yet,  the  power  of  the  ad- 
vertiser had  not  blunted  the  keen  interest  in  politics  which  the  journalists 
shared  with  their  readers.  It  was  perhaps  natural,  therefore,  that  our  first 
poet  of  consequence  to  dedicate  himself  especially  to  the  celebration  of 
the  common  man  in  America  should  have  been  a  newspaper  writer  and 
editor,  Walter  Whitman  (1819-92).  Though  born  in  the  same  year  as 
Lowell  and  Melville,  Whkman  may  nonetheless  be  considered  among  the 
authors  of  a  later  period.  While  one  of  his  feet  is  planted  solidly  in  the 
midst  of  the  romantic  movement  in  America,  the  other  js  .advanced'  far 
inTFie'direction  of  twentieth-century  modernity,  and  at  present  he  seems 
t^bestrioTTrTrveFse  oj^his~centur>TTike  a  colossus.  Moreover,  he  was 
long-choosing  and  beginning  late  with  his  distinctive  work,  and  it  was 
not  until  after  the  Civil  War  that  he  made  a  dent  in  the  panoply  of  op- 
position and  neglect. 

A  product  of  the  heady  idealism  of  the  eighteen-forties  and  a  devotee 
of  the  individualism  rampant  in  American  society,  as  well  as  in  the  intel- 
lectual climate  of  his  age,  he  proposed  as  one  of  his  cardinal  purposes  to 
celebrate  the  United  States  as  the  greatest  poem  and  to  exalt  the  common 
man  as  the  most  glorious  integer  of  creation.  In  this  teeming  nation  of 
nations,  the  deathless  attachment  to  freedom,  the  free  system  of  elec- 
tions, the  President's  taking  off  his  hat  to  the  people— these  appeared  to 
be  the  stuff  of  poetry,  awaiting  treatment  by  a  bard  who  was  himself  a 
hierophant  of  democracy.  But,  while  the  political  institutions  and  man- 

598 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  599 

ners  of  the  country  claimed  his  attention,  and  the  humble  scenes  of 
American  life  afforded  pictorial  images,  and  the  place-names  of  the  land- 
Indiana,  Mississippi,  Mannahatta— rolled  over  his  tongue  with  almost 
ecstatic  appreciation,  it  was  in  something  far  above  nationality  that  he 
found  the  central  force  of  democracy— in  the  personality  of  man  and  in 
the  soul  of  the  individual.  For  Whitman,  the  clue  to  behavior  was  per- 
sonality, and  "whatever  satisfies  souls,"  he  said,  "is  true."  Consequently, 
psychology  and  metaphysics  are  at  the  root  of  his  views  on  democracy, 
and  he  passes  from  egotism  and  nationalism  to  the  vaster  reaches  of  hu- 
manity at  large  and  to  the  universal. 

It  should  be  remembered,  then,  that  while  Whitman  purposely  cele- 
brated his  own  country  and  its  common  folk  with  much  of  the  star- 
spangled  bravado  of  the  newspapers  and  the  old-fashioned  Fourth-of-July 
orators,  he  also  had  an  eye  for  the  liberty,  equality,  and  fraternity  of  the 
men  of  all  nations.  Already  in  the  first  edition  of  Leaves  of  Grass  (1855), 
he  showed  that  his  concern  for  democracy  had  passed  national  bounds, 
for  one  of  the  dozen  poems  in  that  volume,  later  entitled  "Europe,"  is  a 
prophecy  that  the  abortive  revolutions  of  1848  would  be  avenged  and 
that  liberty  was  not  to  be  despaired  of.  The  next  year,  he  published,  in 
the  second  edition,  a  "Liberty  Poem  for  Asia,  Africa,  Europe,  America, 
Australia,  Cuba,  and  The  Archipelagoes  of  the  Sea"— a  title  astonishing- 
enough  but  revelatory  of  his  solicitude  for  a  democratic  principle  in  the 
world  at  large.  He  later  limited  his  geography  by  renaming  the  poem 
"To  a  Foil'd  European  Revolutionaire."  When  the  first  Japanese  delega- 
tion to  visit  the  Occident  came  to  the  United  States  in  i860,  he  used  the 
occasion  to  hail  Liberty  as  marching  with  the  Asiatic  procession  in  "A 
Broadway  Pageant."  The  same  year,  he  was  reminded  of  the  promise  of 
the  French  Revolution  in  penning  "France,  The  18th  Year  of  these 
States,"  and  in  "O  Star  of  France"  ( 187 1)  bewailed  the  temporary  eclipse 
of  freedom  brought  about  by  the  Franco-Prussian  War.  The  compara- 
tively liberal  government  established  in  Spain  prior  to  the  restitution  of 
the  Bourbons  in  1875  also  beguiled  him  into  writing  a  few  lines,  "Spain, 
1873-74,"  and  in  1889  he  welcomed  with  "A  Christmas  Greeting"  the 
newly-established  United  States  of  Brazil.  In  the  better-known  "Salut  au 
Monde!"  (1856),  after  identifying  himself  with  the  inhabitants  of  every 
country  from  Borneo  to  Iceland,  he  solemnly  chanted: 

My  spirit  has  pass'd  in  compassion  and  determination  around  the  whole 

earth, 
I  have  look'd  for  equals  and  lovers  and  found  them  ready  for  me  in 

all  lands, 
I  think  some  divine  rapport  has  equalized  me  with  them. 

And  in  his  last  message  to  his  friends  in  Europe,  painfully  scrawled  on 
his  deathbed,  he  proclaimed:  "More  and  more  it  comes  to  the  fore  that 


6oo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  only  theory  worthy  our  modern  times  for  great  literature  politics 
and  sociology  must  combine  all  the  best  people  of  all  lands,  the  women 
not  forgetting."  x 

In  regard  to  the  accomplishments  of  democracy  in  his  own  country, 
Whitman's  views  underwent  change.  Born  in  the  humble,  patriotic  family 
of  a  farmer  turned  carpenter,  who  named  three  of  his  sons  after  George 
Washington,  Thomas  Jefferson,  and  Andrew  Jackson,  the  poet  grew  up 
with  the  usual  American  conviction  that  the  Union,  the  Constitution,  and 
the  political  machinery  of  the  country  were  far  superior  to  anything 
comparable  in  "feudal"  Europe  2— were,  in  fact,  well-nigh  perfect.  But 
as  the  issue  of  Slavery  loomed  more  and  more  menacing  upon  the  horizon 
of  American  politics,  Whitman  at  first  sought,  with  other  newspaper 
editors  affiliated  with  the  Democratic  Party,  to  keep  it  in  its  place  and 
to  hope  for  a  better  day.  Then,  seeing  that  the  efforts  to  extend  Slavery 
into  the  new  territories  of  the  West  were  being  encouraged  by  the  under- 
handedness  of  politicians,  he  bolted  the  old-line  Democratic  Party  and 
joined  forces  with  the  Free-Soil  faction.  Once  again  disgusted,  he  eventu- 
ally became  "quite  an  Abolitionist,"  albeit  a  free  lance.  At  the  time  of 
the  Civil  War,  he  saw  little  to  pin  his  hopes  upon  save  the  integrity  of 
Lincoln's  purpose  to  preserve  the  Union,  but  was  braced  in  his  convic- 
tion that  the  people,  if  not  their  representatives,  were  solid  at  the  core 
when  he  observed  the  nobility  of  character  displayed  by  the  thousands 
of  sick  and  wounded  soldiers,  from  both  North  and  South,  to  whom  he 
ministered  with  the  tenderest  affection  in  the  hospitals  in  Washington. 
Slavery,  which  he  denounced  as  "the  greatest  undemocratic  un-Ameri- 
canism,"  !  thus  prompted  his  first  great  questioning  of  the  merits  of 
democracy  as  practiced  in  the  United  States. 

After  that  issue  seemed  to  be  closed  by  the  success  of  Northern  arms 
and  the  amendments  to  the  Constitution,  he  found  an  obstacle  in  the  path 
of  his  faith  almost  as  formidable,  namely,  the  manifest  crookedness  of 
public  officials  in  the  days  of  Reconstruction  and  the  closely  related 
submission  to  a  merely  material  and  commercial  prosperity  which  seemed 
to  creep  over  the  country  like  a  malign  fog.  In  the  late  forties,  when  he 
first  began  to  jot  down  his  ideas  for  Leaves  of  Grass,  he  had  thought  that 
the  triumph  of  democracy  in  social  institutions  and  in  the  arts  was  "just 
around  the  corner,"  but  after  beholding  the  black  era  of  Johnson  and 
Grant  he  saw  that  his  hopes  were  to  be  justified  only  in  a  future  which 

1  February  7,  [892,  J.  W.  Wallace,  "Last  Days  of  Walt  Whitman,"  In  Re  Walt 
Whitman  (Philadelphia,  1893),  p.  422  n. 

'-'  For  the  prevalent  view  that  Europe  was  "feudal,"  see  the  letters  of  Ole  M.  Raedcr, 
America  in  the  Forties  (Minneapolis,  1929),  p.  83. 

\1S  notes  for  a  speech,  published  by  Clifton  J.  Furncss,  "Walt  Whitman's 
Politics,"  American  Mercury,  Vol.  16  (April,  1929),  pp.  459-466.  See  also  "Anti- 
Slavery  Notes"  and  "The  Eighteenth  Presidency!"  Walt  Whitman's  Workshop,  ed. 
Clifton  J.  Furncss   (Cambridge,   1928);  and  Newton  Arvin,  Whitman   (1938). 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  60 1 

must  be  prepared  by  painful  toiling  and  the  slow  processes  of  evolution. 
It  might  be  centuries,  he  opined,  before  a  purely  material  civilization 
would  yield  to  a  happier  era.  None  of  our  many  later  critics  of  democracy 
in  America  more  forthrightly  decried  the  iniquities  of  the  nation  than 
did  Whitman  in  his  essay  Democratic  Vistas  (1871): 

The  official  services  of  America,  national,  state,  and  municipal,  in  all  their 
branches  and  departments,  except  the  judiciary,  are  saturated  in  corruption, 
bribery,  falsehood,  maladministration;  and  the  judiciary  is  tainted.  The  great 
cities  reek  with  respectable  as  much  as  non-respectable  robbery  and  scoun- 
drelism.  In  fashionable  life,  flippancy,  tepid  amours,  weak  infidelism,  small 
aims,  or  no  aims  at  all,  only  to  kill  time.  In  business,  (this  all-devouring  modern 
word,  business,)  the  one  sole  object  is,  by  any  means,  pecuniary  gain.  The 
magician's  serpent  in  the  fable  ate  up  all  the  other  serpents;  and  money-making 
is  our  magician's  serpent,  remaining  to-day  sole  master  of  the  field. ...  I  say 
that  our  New  World  democracy,  however  great  a  success  in  uplifting  the 
masses  out  of  their  sloughs,  in  materialistic  development,  products,  and  in  a 
certain  highly-deceptive  superficial  popular  intellectuality,  is,  so  far,  an  almost 
complete  failure  in  its  social  aspects,  and  in  really  grand  religious,  moral, 
literary,  and  esthetic  results.4 

But  down  the  vistas  he  was  nevertheless  able  to  behold  a  day  when  in 
art,  morality,  and  religion,  as  well  as  in  politics,  the  nation  would  tran- 
scend mere  prosperity  and  prove  itself  worthy  of  the  essential  nobility 
of  the  "divine  average."  Like  all  old-fashioned  Americans,  Whitman  was 
an  optimist. 

In  thus  putting  ofT  to  an  indefinite  future  the  triumph  of  democracy 
in  literature,  Whitman  merely  reflected  a  common  attitude  of  critics  of 
the  time,  a  point  which  may  be  illustrated  by  reference  to  the  work  of 
Thomas  Wentworth  Higginson  (1823-1911).  Editor  of  The  Atlantic 
Monthly,  essayist,  biographer,  champion  of  Thoreau,  he,  too,  was  a 
friend  of  the  oppressed— especially  of  the  Negroes,  whom  he  described 
so  sympathetically  in  his  best  book,  Army  Life  in  a  Black  Regiment 
(1870),  and  of  women,  for  whose  political  rights  he  battled  as  a  reformer. 
Considering  the  problem  of  "Americanism  in  Literature,"  Higginson 
emphatically  declared  that  a  democratic  society  was  undoubtedly  "the 
society  of  the  future,"  and  further  elaborated  his  opinion: 

We  have  not  yet  arrived  at  our  literature, — other  things  must  come  first;  we 
are  busy  with  our  railroads,  perfecting  the  vast  alimentary  canal  by  which 
the  nation  assimilates  raw  immigrants  at  the  rate  of  half  a  million  a  year.  We 
are  not  yet  producing,  we  are  digesting:  food  now,  literary  composition  by 
and  by 5 

4  Complete  Prose  Works  (Boston,  1907),  p.  204. 

5  Atlantic  Essays  (Boston,  1871),  p.  64.  See  also  George  E.  Woodberry,  "The 
Language  of  All  the  World,"  The  Torch  (1905),  pp.  49-50. 


6o2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Such  a  view  was  almost  a  theme-song  with  those  who  contemplated 
the  progress  of  the  arts  in  America. 

The  career  of  Whitman  may  be  divided  into  three  periods:  first,  from 
the  time  he  left  school  forever  at  the  age  of  twelve  or  thirteen  until 
1855,  when,  "after  manv  MS.  doings  and  undoings,"  he  published  the 
first  edition  of  Leaves  of  Grass;  second,  from  1855  to  1873,  the  year  of 
his  being  stricken  with  paralysis;  and  third,  from  1873  to  his  death  in 
1892,  a  period  when  the  enforced  leisure  of  invalidism  made  him  more 
of  a  reader  than  ever  before.  But  from  the  late  forties  to  the  day  of  his 
death  he  was  as  a  literary  man  primarily  interested  in  expressing  the 
ideas  which  are  embodied  in  Leaves  of  Grass,  a  book  which  underwent 
constant  revision  and  enlargement,  although  few  pieces  of  great  impor- 
tance were  added  after  the  time  of  his  paralysis. 

After  finishing  the  eighth  grade  in  the  Brooklyn  schools,  Whitman 
worked  in  the  offices  of  a  doctor  and  a  lawyer,  apprenticed  himself  as 
a  printer,  taught  school  in  a  rural  section  of  his  native  Long  Island,  re- 
turned to  the  printer's  trade  in  New  York  City,  and  helped  with  farm 
work  during  summer  seasons.  In  the  early  fifties  he  also  acted  as  a  car- 
penter and  house-builder.  His  most  protracted  early  occupation  was  that 
of  a  newspaper  man,  and  he  progressed  in  the  usual  American  fashion 
from  printer  to  writer  and  editor.  For  a  short  time  he  had  his  own  print- 
ing shop  in  connection  with  which  he  operated  a  bookstore.  His  first 
important  post  as  an  editor,  though  he  had  had  previous  experiences,  was 
with  the  Brooklyn  Eagle  in  1846-47,  a  position  which  he  may  have  lost 
as  a  result  of  Free-Soil  inclinations.  In  1848  he  journeyed  to  New  Orleans 
where  he  worked  for  a  few  weeks  on  the  staff  of  the  daily  Crescent,  a 
paper  without  party  affiliation,  and  thereafter  returned  in  leisurely  fashion 
through  the  Middle  States  to  Brooklyn,  where  for  a  time  he  was  in 
charge  of  a  new  Free-Soil  newspaper  called  the  Freeman.  He  seems  to 
have  held  only  one  more  editorship,  on  the  Brooklyn  Times  in  1857-58, 
but  throughout  the  remainder  of  his  life  he  intermittently  contributed 
articles  and  poems  to  a  variety  of  newspapers,  principally  in  New  York, 
in  Washington,  and  in  Camden,  New  Jersey.  Such  of  his  early  prose  as 
has  been  recovered  from  old  files  reveals  little  that  is  distinctive  in 
manner  or  matter,  and  it  may  be  concluded  that  Whitman  was  a  second- 
rate  journalist  whose  products  can  scarcely  be  distinguished  from  those 
of  others  who  wrote  for  the  minor  papers  of  the  day.  But  the  experience 
was  of  value  in  enlarging  his  vocabulary  and  in  training  him  to  write 
directly  from  life— the  varied  kind  of  life  which  reporters  are  likely  to 
know.  Furthermore,  books  for  review  and  free  passes  to  the  theatres  and 
musical  events,  especially  the  opera  in  New  York,  aided  his  self-educa- 
tion in  the  arts;  and  the  necessity  of  commenting  upon  national  as  well 
as  local  affairs  kept  him  in  touch  with  the  chief  issues  of  his  day  and 
brought  him  in  close  contact  with  political  organizations. 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  603 

Like  all  literary  aspirants  engaged  in  newspaper  work,  Whitman  tried 
writing  for  the  magazines,  especially  for  The  Democratic  Review;  to 
pick  up  a  few  extra  pence  he  even  fabricated  a  temperance  novel,  Frank- 
lin Evans  or  The  Inebriate:  A  Tale  of  the  Times  (1842).0  Of  the  several 
short  stories  which  he  published  in  the  journals  7  one  was  mildly  popular 
as  a  result  of  being  reprinted  in  a  number  of  newspapers,  "Death  in  the 
School  Room"  (1841),  a  sentimental  piece  having  to  do  with  a  hard- 
hearted schoolmaster  who  flogs  the  son  of  a  widow  slumped  over  his 
desk  dead.  More  careful  in  composition  than  his  work  for  the  newspapers, 
Whitman's  early  prose  in  the  magazines  is,  nevertheless,  conventional 
and  unpromising. 

The  same  verdict  applies  to  his  earliest  verse.  Few  more  than  a  dozen 
poems  were  published  prior  to  1848,  and  they  have  been  adequately 
characterized  as  "emotionally  hollow,  and  leaden  with  homiletic  pes- 
simism." 8  The  form  that  he  used  was  regular,  and  his  handling  of  rhyme 
and  metre  was  as  deft  as  in  the  average  compositions  of  Lowell  and 
Whittier  published  during  the  early  forties.  But  three  of  his  pieces 
printed  in  1850  in  the  New  York  Tribune  prove  that  by  that  time  he  had 
gone  far  in  the  direction  of  irregularity:  "The  House  of  Friends,"  "Re- 
surgemus,"  and  "Blood  Money"— all  three  on  political  topics.  The  second 
of  these,  later  named  "Europe,"  was  thoroughly  revised  and  appeared  in 
the  first  edition  of  Leaves  of  Grass,  the  only  poem  in  that  book  known 
to  have  been  published  prior  to  1855.  Most  significant,  however,  in 
showing  the  genesis  of  his  peculiar  free  verse  is  "Blood  Money,"  which 
begins  with  these  lines: 

Of  olden  time,  when  it  came  to  pass 

That  the  beautiful  god,  Jesus,  should  finish  his  work  on  earth, 

Then  went  Judas,  and  sold  the  divine  youth, 

And  took  pay  for  his  body.9 

It  is  clear,  then,  that  by  1850  Whitman  had  approximated  the  form  of 
Leaves  of  Grass,  and  one  would  infer  from  the  passage  quoted  from 
"Blood  Money"  that  the  King  James  version  of  the  Bible  was  a  model  if 
not  the  model.  "The  House  of  Friends,"  as  originally  published,  was  sup- 

6  Republished  in  the  Brooklyn  Daily  Eagle  for  November  16-30,  1846,  as  Fortunes 
of  a  Country-Boy;  reprinted  in  The  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose  of  Walt  Whitman, 
ed.  Emory  Holloway,  2  Vols.  (Garden  City  and  Toronto,  1921),  Vol.  2,  pp.  103-221; 
and  as  a  separate,  with  an  Intro,  by  Holloway  (1929). 

7  Complete  Prose  Works,  The  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose,  and  The  Half -Breed 
and  Other  Stories,  ed.  T.  O.  Mabbott  (1927),  contain  most  of  them. 

8  Floyd  Stovall,  Walt  Whitman:  Representative  Selections  ([1934]),  Intro.,  p.  xxi. 
The  early  verse  may  be  read  in  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose  and  Complete  Prose 
Works.  See  also  the  pamphlet  bibliography,  Index  to  Early  American  Periodical 
Literature,  1728-1870.  No.  3.  Walt  Whitman  (1941),  pp.  5-6. 

9  Complete  Prose  Works,  p.  372.  The  other  two  poems  are  reproduced  in  Uncol- 
lected Poetry  and  Prose,  Vol.  1,  pp.  25-30. 


6o4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

plied  with  a  prefatory  quotation  from  the  Book  of  Zechariah,  and  the 
unrevised  "Resurgemus"  contained  a  revelatory  simile: 

Suddenly,  out  of  its  stale  and  drowsy  air,  the  air  of  slaves, 
Like  lightning  Europe  le'pt  forth, 
Sombre,  superb  and  terrible, 
As  Ahimoth,  brother  of  Death. 

Only  a  close  reader  of  the  Old  Testament  could  have  known  who 
Ahimoth  was,  and  only  a  close  student  of  the  Bible  could  have  written 
Leaves  of  Grass.10 

While  the  three  poems  of  1850  indicate  the  general  direction  which 
the  form  of  his  verse  would  take,  certain  notebooks  la  which  Whitman 
used  make  clear  that  as  early  as  1847-48  he  had  jotted  down  ideas  and 
phrases  w7hich  were  later  embodied  in  the  Leaves.  The  assumption,  ac- 
cordingly, is  that  for  seven  or  eight  years  before  1855  Whitman  brooded 
over  several  of  the  central  ideas  for  his  new  poetical  gospel  of  the  Western 
World.  The  radical  difference  in  the  clarion-voiced  poet  whom  we  now 
knowT  and  the  second-rate  Brooklyn  journalist  treading  the  mill  of  tradi- 
tion presents  a  problem  of  no  mean  order  to  the  literary  historian;  and, 
clear  as  the  evidence  is  of  the  date  1847-48  for  the  notebook  jottings  and 
of  1850  for  the  free  form  which  his  poetry  took,  we  are  not  equipped 
with  sufficient  information  to  do  more  than  infer  what  took  place  in  his 
mind.  From  childhood,  he  has  told  us,  he  wished  to  write  a  poem  about 
the  sea,  and  we  know  that  he  had  read  the  verse  of  Sir  Walter  Scott  >vith 
enthusiasm  and  had  shouted  passages  from  Shakespeare  and  translations 
from  Homer  and  Dante  to  the  waves  at  Coney  Island,  which  was  in  the 
forties  a  solitary  beach  whither  he  went  to  bathe  and  acquire  a  sun-tan. 
We  know  that  he  was  familiar  with  the  ideas  of  Carlyle,  George  Sand, 
Michelet,  and  others,  whose  books  he  reviewed  in  the  newspapers,  but, 
in  general,  his  early  literary  studies  seem  to  have  been  carried  on  prin- 
cipally in  the  periodicals  of  the  day.  His  acquaintance  with  the  work  of 
Bryant,  whom  he  knew  as  a  fellow- journalist  and  with  whom  he  took 
walks,  is  to  be  seen  in  his  apprentice  verse;  and  in  his  tales  the  influence 
of  Cooper  and  Poe  is  occasionally  evident.  Frornjoe,  too,  as  he  himself 
affirmed,  Jig  embraced  the  idea  that  a  long  poem  was  to  be  avoided. 
Through  the  magazines  he  was  aware  of  at  least  some  of  the  doctrines  of 

10  The  parallelism  of  the  ancient  Hebrews  is  the  most  generally  prevalent  poetical 
device  in  Leaves  of  Grass.  Almost  60  per  cent  of  the  lines  have  been  described  as 
"in  parallel  structure"  (Lois  Ware,  "Poetic  Conventions  in  Leaves  of  Grass"  Stud,  in 
Phil.,  VH.  26,  January,  1929,  p.  54).  For  Whitman  and  the  Bible,  see  Gay  W.  Allen, 
Walt  Whitman  Handbook  (1946),  pp.  387  fT.;  and  Clarence  Gohdes,  "A  Note  on 
Whitman's  Use  of  the  Bible  as  a  Model,"  Mod.  Lang.  Quart.,  Vol.  2  (March,  1941), 
pp.  105-108.  Martin  Tupper,  often  mentioned  as  a  possible  model,  acknowledged  that 
his  thoughts  in  Proverbial  Philosophy  were  conveyed  in  the  "manner  of  Solomon's 
Proverbs  or  the  'Wisdom'  of  Jesus  the  Son  of  Sirach"  (My  Life  as  an  Author,  London, 
1 886,  p.  111). 

1  '  Printed  for  the  first  time  in  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose,  Vol.  2,  pp.  63  ff. 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  605 

that  spiritual  eddy  in  the  broad  current  of  Romanticism  known  as  Tran- 
scendentalism, though  it  was  not  until  1888  that  he  found  out  much  about 
the  secondary  group  of  American  authors  floating  in  that  eddy.12  Above 
all,  we  know  that  he  was  familiar  with  the  writings  of  Emerson,  and  in 
a  manuscript  poem  written  in  the  early  fifties  he  mentioned,  "tall  and 
slender,"  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  "at  the  lecturer's  desk,  lecturing."  13 
Later,  he  remarked,  "I  was  simmering,  simmering,  simmering;  Emerson 
brought  me  to  a  boil."  Furthermore,  in  the  second  edition  of  Leaves  of 
Grass  (1856)  he  published  a  mawkish  letter  addressing  Emerson  as 
"master"  and  affirming:  "Those  shores  you  found.  I  say  you  have  led 
The  States  there— have  led  Me  there." 

But  assuredly  there  was  much  in  Whitman  that  did  not  derive  from 
Emerson,  though  the  gospel  of  self-reliance  and  the  churchless  religion 
of  the  soul,  so  akin  to  that  of  the  Quakers,  are  common  to  both  men.  On 
the  physical  side,  Whitman  had  led  a  life  "jolly  bodily"  and  he  had 
come  to  consider  himself  a  representative  specimen  of  mental  and  physical 
America,  for  he  possessed  a  superb  physique,  though  he  began  to  turn 
gray  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  and  he  enjoyed  an  extensive  acquaintance 
with  horse-car  drivers  and  ferry-boat  pilots,  as  well  as  politicians,  news- 
paper men,  and  the  bohemians  who  in  the  fifties  began  to  make  themselves 
apparent  on  the  New  York  literary  horizon.  The  trip  to  New  Orleans 
had  given  him  a  first-hand  view  of  the  South  and  of  the  spinal  region 
of  the  America  of  the  forties.  And  in  1849  he  had  had  himself  phrenol- 
ogized— to  his  great  satisfaction,  for  the  resulting  analysis,14  done  by  an 
expert,  proved  him  to  be  a  superb  mental,  as  well  as  physical,  creature. 
But  at  bottom  he  was  naively  ignorant  of  much  that  traditional  poets  had 
set  store  by,  and  he  was  a  poor  critic  of  his  own  accomplishment.  Always 
lazy  in  composition,  he  found  writing  a  slow  process,  and  his  efforts  had 
to  be  improved  by  trial  and  error,  as  is  usually  the  case  with  self-edu- 
cated men. 

But,  in  the  last  analysis,  his  reading  and  his  biography  offer  no  adequate 
rational  explanation  for  the  change  from  the  earlier  writer  to  the  author 
of  Leaves  of  Grass.  It  is  assumed,  however,  that  some  sort  of  overpower- 
ing spiritual  illumination  flooded  his  consciousness  and  changed  him,  in 
much  the  same  fashion  as  the  mystical  experience  on  the  road  to  Damascus 

12  Horace  Traubel,  With  Walt  Whitman  in  Camden,  3  Vols.  (1906-14),  Vol.  1, 
pp.  125-126. 

13  Pictures:  An  Unpublished  Poem  of  Walt  Whitman,  ed.  Emory  Holloway  (New 
York  and  London,  1928).  For  Whitman's  indebtedness  to  Emerson,  see  John  B. 
Moore,  "The  Master  of  Whitman,"  Stud,  in  Phil.,  Vol.  23  (Jan.,  1926),  pp.  77-89; 
Edna  D.  Romig,  "More  Roots  for  Leaves  of  Grass,"  Elizabethan  Studies  and  Other 
Essays  in  Honor  of  George  F.  Reynolds  (Boulder,  Colo.,  1945),  pp.  322-327;  Clarence 
Gohdes,  "Whitman  and  Emerson,"  Sewanee  Review,  Vol.  37  (Jan.,  1929),  pp.  79-93; 
and  Clara  Barrus,  Whitman  and  Burroughs,  Comrades  (Boston  and  New  York,  1931) . 

14  Printed  as  an  appendix  in  Faint  Clews  &  Indirections,  ed.  Clarence  Gohdes  and 
Rollo  G.  Silver  (Durham,  N.  C,  1949). 


6o6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

converted  Saul  into  the  Apostle  Paul.\There  can  be  no  question  that 
Whitman  was  a  mystic,  for  in  Section  V  of  "Song  of  Myself"  he  recalls 
pretty  definitely— as  definitely  as  mystics  are  able  to  recall— an  illumina- 
tion which  took  place  one  summer  day  as  he  was  lying  on  the  grass.  From 
scattered  hints  it  appears  that  these  moments  of  bathing  himself  in  God, 
as  he  described  them  in  "Prayer  of  Columbus,"  took  place  not  only  while 
he  lav  on  the  grass,  sometimes  staring  at  the  sun,  but  also  in  bed  and 
especially  as  he  loafed  along  the  seashore.  As  a  result  of  these  special 
communions  of  his  soul  with  God,  he  early  thought  much  about  death, 
time,  space,  immortality,  the  nature  of  what  men  call  evil;  and  his  con- 
victions on  such  matters  were  the  result  of  fathomless  intuition,  transcend- 
ing all  logic  or  argument.15 

In  1855  Whitman  was  ready  with  both  his  new  ideas  and  his  new  form. 
His  own  book  designer  and  publisher,  he  brought  out  in  an  edition  of 
about  a  thousand  copies  the  first  Leaves  of  Grass,  twelve  poems  in  all, 
half  of  them  simply  entitled  "Leaves  of  Grass"  and  half  with  no  titles  at 
all.  Eventually  they  were  named,  respectively,  "Song  of  Aiyself,"  "A 
Song  for  Occupations,"  "To  Think  of  Time,"  "The  Sleepers,"  "I  Sing 
the  Body  Electric,"  "Faces,"  "Song  of  the  Answerer,"  "Europe,"  "A 
Boston  Ballad,"  "There  Was  a  Child  Went  Forth,"  "Who  Learns  My 
Lesson  Complete?"  and  "Great  Are  the  Myths. "  He  neglected  to  put  his 
name  as  author  on  the  title  page,  a  practice  which  he  long  favored,  but 
included  as  frontispiece  a  portrait  of  himself,  in  workman's  clothing, 
his  undershirt  exposed  at  the  neck,  his  eyes  betraying  the  visionary  and 
the  dreamer.  A  rhapsodic  preface  introduced  the  dozen  poems.  He  prob- 
ably believed  at  the  time  that  his  message  would  be  received  with  ac- 
claim, but  later  he  observed,  "I  expected  hell,  and  I  got  it."  The  mongrel 
form— half  prose,  half  verse— was  alone  sufficient  to  discourage  readers 
in  1855,  as  it  sometimes  does  today.  The  contents  seemed  like  raw  materials 
thrown  together,  spasmodic  jottings  interrupted  by  prosy  doctrines.  The 
transitions  were  violent  and  the  obscurities  plentiful.  They  still  are.  The 
punctuation  was  faulty;  at  times  there  was  some  downright  bad  grammar; 
Americanisms  flourished  in  the  pages,  as  well  as  slang,  misspelled  and 
misused  words.  There  were  profanity,  impiety,  and  a  celebration  of  wick- 
edness and  of  the  wicked.  Contradictions,  repetitions,  and  catalogues  as 
badly  prosaic  as  mere  inventories  were  to  be  observed.  What  could  one 
say,  then  or  now,  in  favor  of  a  line  like  the  following  one? 

Great  are  marriage,   commerce,  newspapers,  books,   freetrade,   railroads, 
steamers,  international  mails  and  telegraphs  and  exchanges. 

1  ■''  For  the  basis  of  his  belief  in  immortality,  see,  for  example,  Traubel,  Whitman  in 
Camden,  Vol.  i,  p.  no.  A  family  friend,  who  described  the  poet  as  "the  most  intuitive 
mail  I  ever  knew"  and  as  a  "born  exalte"  has  recorded  the  peculiar  elation  that 
followed  upon  Whitman's  moments  of  illumination  (Richard  M.  Bucke,  Walt  Whit- 
man, Philadelphia,  [883,  p.  32). 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  607 

And  there  was  also  a  frankness  in  regard  to  sex  that  discouraged  even 
radicals  like  Thoreau  and  Emerson  who  were  among  the  few  ready  to 
applaud  the  religious  philosophy  expressed  therein.  The  mention  of  the 
male  sex  organ  and  of  human  sperm  was  enough  to  sicken.  Whittier,  who 
like  several  other  authors,  received  a  copy  at  Whitman's  hands,  glanced 
at  a  few  lines,  it  is  said,  and  consigned  it  to  the  fire.  And  Emerson,  though 
he  wrote  a  complimentary  letter  greeting  the  poet  "at  the  beginning  of 
a  great  career,"  thought  that  the  book  lacked  good  morals  and  throve  so 
badly  with  the  few  people  to  whom  he  showed  it  that  he  hesitated  to 
send  a  copy  to  Carlyle.  But,  he  averred,  the  work  had  "terrible  eyes  and 
buffalo  strength"— and  was  indisputably  American. 

The  readers  who  were  able  to  overcome  such  objections  might  have 
found  a  few  passages  of  great  poetry,  heart- warming  sympathy  with  the 
pimply-faced  and  the  underprivileged,  and  an  exultation  in  the  miracu- 
lousness  of  the  commonplace  aspects  of  nature— this  last  the  clue  to  the 
title.  Farmer-folk  and  mechanics  might  have  enjoyed  the  realism  of  the 
array  of  accurate  pictures  of  rural  life  or  scenes  from  the  city,  and  those 
who  had  clamored  so  long  for  an  autochthonous  literature  could  have 
been  satisfied  with  the  clever  picturization  of  America  at  large— from  the 
prairies,  where  the  trappers  married  Indian  brides,  to  the  shores  of  the 
Atlantic,  where  clam-diggers  sought  for  the  quahaug.  The  various  re- 
formers of  the  day  might  have  rejoiced  in  some  of  the  doctrines,  for  the 
most  part  expressed  in  the  sententious  manner  of  declaration  befitting  the 
orator.  Both  before  and  after  1855,  the  author  had  considered  the  pos- 
sibility of  spreading  his  message  via  the  lecture  platform,  and  his  family 
have  borne  testimony  to  the  fact  that  he  wrote  barrels  of  speeches.  His 
inviolable  faith  in  the  common  man  and  the  sincerity  of  his  belief  in  God, 
the  soul,  the  dignity  of  the  human  body,  would  have  been  patent  enough; 
and  the  reader  might  have  thrilled  as  he  does  now  to  the  exquisite  joy 
of  living  which  saturates  many  passages  of  the  poems.  Back  of  the  seem- 
ingly mountainous  egotism  there  was  great  modesty,  too,  for,  though 
vain,  Whitman  assumed  for  each  of  his  readers  what  he  assumed  for  him- 
self, and  he  flattered  mankind  by  deeming  that  his  own  thoughts  were 
but  the  thoughts  of  all  men  of  all  ages]  At  the  heart  of  all  the  doctrines 
was  the  timeless  trust  in  the  dignity  of  man,  yes,  the  divinity  of  man— of 
even  the  slave  at  auction  and  the  prostitute,  for  whose  advent,  both  as 
body  and  soul,  the  universe  had  through  quintillions  of  ages  prepared  the 
way,  and  for  whom  the  cycles  had  rowed  like  cheerful  boatmen.  Here, 
already  in  the  first  trial,  were  energy,  if  not  formal  charm,  a  kinetic  zest, 
a  display  of  extremely  sharp  sense-perceptions,  plus  an  aspiring  intuitive 
apprehension  which  sought  to  unify,  through  one  consciousness,  time, 
space,  America,  the  world,  and  all  that  lies  beyond  the  realm  of  the 
senses. 

But  few  readers  bought  the  book,  and  the  critics  spilled  much  gall. 


608  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Even  before  reviews  were  to  be  expected,  Whitman  wrote  and  published 
several  critiques  of  his  own  book,  a  practice  which  he  followed  for  many 
years,  for  he  was  his  own  publisher  and  any  method  of  bringing  his  "new 
Bible"  before  the  world  was  not  to  be  balked  at  on  the  grounds  of  good 
taste.  In  that  respect  he  was  akin  to  Cervantes.  When  he  realized  the 
abysmal  failure  of  his  work,  he  took  a  trip  to  the  end  of  Long  Island 
to  think  things  over,  and  returned  convinced  that  he  should  continue. 
Moreover,  the  fury  of  composition  was  upon  him,  and  ideas  for  poems 
came  popping  into  his  mind  with  unusual  ease,  for  he  had  by  no  means 
exhausted  the  store  of  inspiration  tapped  for  the  1855  Leaves.  The  next 
year  he  was  ready  with  a  new  volume,  this  one  with  thirty-two  poems 
in  all,  including  the  twelve  from  the  first  trial.  All  were  given  names, 
the  portrait  of  himself  was  taken  over  again  as  frontispiece,  but  the 
preface  was  dropped.  Most  of  it  he  used  then  or  later  in  his  poems,16  a 
point  of  special  note,  for  what  he  had  published  as  prose  in  1855  within 
a  few  months  became  verse,  a  matter  which  brings  up  the  question 
whether  he  recognized  any  peculiar  distinction  between  the  two.  On  the 
spine  of  the  book  was  emblazoned  in  gold,  "I  Greet  You  at  the  Beginning 
of  A  Great  Career  R  W  Emerson"— from  the  letter  received  from  the 
"master."  In  an  appendix  he  reprinted  from  the  New  York  Tribune, 
where  he  had  first  used  it  to  publicize  himself,  Emerson's  letter  in  its 
entirety  and  added  a  lengthy  reply,  which  has  already  been  mentioned. 
In  the  appendix  also  were  selections  from  reviews  of  the  Leaves,  including 
those  which  he  himself  had  written.  No  publisher's  name  appeared  on  the 
tide  page,  but  the  book  was  handled  by  the  firm  of  Fowler  and  Wells, 
in  whose  New  York  office  he  had  been  phrenologized  in  1 849. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Whitman,  like  Balzac  and  many  another 
author  of  the  era,  was  keenly  interested  in  phrenology.  He  used  it  in 
his  poems,  as  well  as  in  his  reviews  of  himself,  and  seems  to  have  taken 
the  science  of  bumps  as  seriously  as  many  recent  writers  have  employed 
the  theories  of  psychoanalysis.17  The  phrenological  enthusiasts  with 
whom  he  was  associated  were  also  interested  in  sex  education  and  in 
hydropathy,  and  it  is  perhaps  worthy  of  note  that  Whitman  wrote  on 
one  of  the  several  batches  of  clippings  on  phrenology  which  he  preserved: 
"Morality  and  talent  are  affected  more  by  food,  drink,  physical  habits, 
cheerfulness,  exercise,  regulated  or  irregulated  amativeness,  than  is  sup- 
posed.—O.  S.  Fowler."  18  Whether  Fowler  was  the  poet's  Freud,  offering- 
advice,  we  do  not  know;  but  certainly  there  was  an  increase  in  the  at- 

1,1  Willie  T.  Weathers,  "Whitman's  Poetic  Translations  of  His  1855  Preface," 
Avier.  Lit.,  Vol.  19  (March,  1947),  pp.  21-40. 

1 '  An  interesting  but  incomplete  account  is  given  by  Edward  Hungerford,  "Walt 
Whitman  and  His  Chart  of  Bumps,"  Avier.  Lit.,  Vol.  2  (Jan.  1931),  pp.  350-384. 

,sBucke  published  the  annotation  in  a  most  important  repository  of  Whitman's 
early  manuscripts,  Notes  and  fragments  (London,  Canada,  1899),  p.  81.  The  phreno- 
logical clippings  arc  now  in  the  Trent  Collection  of  the  Duke  University  Library. 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  609 

tention  paid  to  amativeness  in  the  1856  edition,  and  the  reviews  were 
more  hostile  than  before.  The  result  was  that  the  book  was  soon  again  on 
the  author's  hands.  Hack  work  for  the  newspapers  and  savings  from  the 
profitable  housebuilding  in  the  early  fifties  perhaps  tided  him  over  with 
his  simple  needs,  but  the  panic  of  1857  drove  him  back  to  editing  for  a 
time.  The  making  of  new  poems,  however,  went  on  apace. 

By  i860  he  was  ready  for  a  third  edition,  and  this  time  he  was  fortunate 
in  finding  in  Boston  a  pair  of  young  publishers  who  allowed  him  his  way 
in  designing  the  book,  and  who,  it  is  said,  sold  four  or  five  thousand  copies 
before  they  went  to  the  wall.  With  the  i860  edition  Whitman  exhausted 
his  first  and  chief  store  of  ideas  and  subjects  for  Leaves  of  Grass.  Indeed, 
he  had  proceeded  too  quickly,  for  more  lines  were  later  dropped  from 
that  edition  than  from  any  other.  He  was  known  in  limited  circles  as  a 
freakish  and  sensual  author,  and  only  the  Emersonidae,  as  Lowell  had 
earlier  called  them,  were  really  aware  of  his  significance— and  even  they 
were  troubled  by  his  frankness.  "It  is  as  if  the  beasts  spoke,"  said  Thoreau, 
the  born  dissenter. 

With  the  outbreak  of  the  war,  Whitman  immediately,  it  seems,  be- 
gan to  write  poems  to  the  sound  of  the  drums.  But  soon  all  writing  ex- 
cept newspaper  correspondence  was  to  take  a  secondary  place,  for, 
proceeding  to  the  front  in  1862  when  word  was  received  that  his  younger 
brother  George  had  been  wounded,  he  saw  a  new  duty  marked  out  es- 
pecially for  him.  He  had  often  visited  the  hospitals  in  New  York  and 
Brooklyn  to  cheer  his  horse-car-driver  friends  who  were  sick  or  injured, 
and  now  he  saw  that  the  soldiers  rushed  to  Washington  from  the  bloody 
fields  of  Virginia  were  in  need  of  gifts  such  as  he  could  offer— heartiness, 
encouragement,  as  well  as  tobacco,  stamps,  and  ice  cream.  And  so  he 
remained  in  the  capital,  earning  his  living  by  hack  writing  and  by  acting 
as  clerk  in  government  offices  but  spending  several  hours  a  day  in  even 
the  most  pestiferous  wards  of  the  hospitals  where  only  the  boldest  of  the 
Christian  Commission  workers— the  Red  Cross  of  the  day— dared  to  ven- 
ture. An  infected  cut  on  the  hand,  dizzy  spells— and  at  length  the  athlete 
who  had  boasted  that  never  had  he  tasted  medicine  was  undermined  in 
health.  "Hospital  malaria"  the  sympathetic  doctors  diagnosed  the  ail- 
ment. For  a  time  he  was  driven  back  to  Brooklyn  to  recover  in  his 
mother's  home.  In  a  period  of  about  thirty  months  prior  to  December, 
1865,  he  had  ministered  to  almost  a  hundred  thousand  sick  and  wounded 
soldiers  and  baggage-train  drivers. 

But  his  new  war  poems,  in  style  more  regular  than  any  of  the  previous 
Leaves,  were  at  length  published,  with  himself  again  as  publisher.  A 
regular  post  as  clerk  19  had  provided  him  with  the  means  of  bringing  out 
the  volume,  and  the  ending  of  the  war  lessened  the  demands  for  support 

19  Whitman's  career  as  government  clerk  has  been  thoroughly  studied  by  Dixon 
Wecter,  "Walt  Whitman  as  Civil  Servant,"  PMLA,  Vol.  58  (Dec,  1943),  pp.  1094-1109. 


6io  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

from  his  family  and  from  his  soldier  friends.  Some  of  the  new  poems  were 
based  directly  on  impressions  derived  from  a  couple  of  trips  to  the  battle- 
fields, but  a  few,  like  the  almost  regularly  trochaic  "Pioneers!  O  Pioneers!" 
dealt  not  at  all  with  the  war.  Drum-Taps  (1865)  was  the  name  given  the 
little  book.  After  a  number  of  copies  had  been  bound,  Whitman  soon 
ceased  distributing  it,  for  the  assassination  of  Abraham  Lincoln  made  a 
demand  on  his  muse  such  as  he  had  rarely  felt  before.  Two  pieces  cele- 
brating his  hero,  along  with  sixteen  other  new  poems,  went  into  the 
volume  as  a  "sequel."  One  of  the  former  was  uO  Captain!  My  Captain!" 
with  rhyme  and  metre,  destined  to  become  his  best-known  piece.  It  is 
so  unrepresentative  that  he  later  remarked,  "I'm  almost  sorry  I  ever  wrote 
the  poem."  2U  Far  better  is  the  marvellously  musical  "When  Lilacs  Last 
in  the  Dooryard  Bloom'd,"  an  elegy  based  upon  motifs  in  much  the 
same  fashion  as  a  modern  symphonic  tone-poem,  and  a  work  which  he 
never  surpassed  in  restraint  or  sonority.  It,  nevertheless,  is  marked  by  a 
few  crudities.21 

Despite  its  less  violent  irregularity,  Drum-Taps  was  reviewed  pretty 
harshly  by  the  youthful  Henry  James,  as  well  as  by  older  critics,  but 
there  were  no  grounds  now  for  the  old  charge  of  libidinousness.  With 
the  i860  volume  Whitman  had  paid  his  last  respects  to  amativeness, 
though  one  later  nature  poem,  "The  Dalliance  of  the  Eagles"  (1880),  de- 
scribing the  whirling  flight  of  mating  birds,  was  to  upset  the  Society 
for  the  Suppression  of  Vice  in  Boston.  But  Drum-Taps  was  regarded  as 
uncouth,  and  its  sale  was  disappointing.  Seemingly,  however,  Whitman 
was  unperturbed.  He  appeared  to  have  recovered  from  his  illness,  there 
were  still  boys  in  the  hospitals  to  visit,  and  his  salary  as  clerk  was  prob- 
ably the  best  he  had  ever  earned.  Furthermore,  his  position  provided  an 
excellent  opportunity  to  loaf  and  to  read,  and  he  had  a  new  circle  of 
friends  in  Washington,  some  of  them  literary  in  inclination,  like  John 
Burroughs  and  William  D.  O'Connor,  both  sufficiently  disciplined  in  the 
stud\  of  Emerson  to  appreciate  his  lofty  purposes.  Both  men  were  fond 
admirers  of  the  bearded  eccentric  who  lounged  down  the  streets  of  the 
capital  with  his  lazy  roll  or  sat  on  the  curb  of  a  main  thoroughfare  eat- 
ing a  watermelon  with  his  horse-car-conductor  friend,  Peter  Doyle. 
When  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior  discharged  the  poetical  clerk  on  the 
ground  that  he  had  written  an  obscene  book,  another  position,  in  the 
Attorney-General's  office,  was  readily  secured,  and  O'Connor  used  the 
occasion   for  a  fiery  defense  of  freedom  in  letters  and  a  clever  bit  of 

20  Traubel,  Whitman  in  Camden,  Vol.  2,  p.  304.  See  also  Vol.  2,  pp.  332~333  f°r  the 
first  draft.  For  an  interesting  analysis  of  Lincoln's  character  in  which  Whitman  first 
refers  to  Lincoln  as  "captain,"  sec  his  letter  of  March  19,  1863  {Uncollected  Poetry 
and  Prose,  Vol.  2,  p.  2^;. 

->  For  material  relating  to  the  poem,  see  Charles  I.  Glicksberg,  Walt  Whitman  and 
the  Civil  War  (Philadelphia,  1933),  pp.  i74->7^  and  John  Burroughs,  Whitman:  A 
Study  (1896),  pp.  44-45- 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  611 

publicity  for  his  friend  by  writing  a  pamphlet,  The  Good  Gray  Poet 
(1866).  And  Burroughs  was  soon  involved  in  composing,  with  the  not- 
inconsiderable  assistance  of  his  subject,  the  first  book  on  Whitman,  Notes 
on  Walt  Whitman  as  Poet  and  Person  (1867;  second  edition,  187 1). 

The  poet's  services  in  the  hospitals  had  also  received  cordial  mention 
from  time  to  time  in  the  press,  of  New  York  City  especially,  and  new 
editions  of  Leaves  of  Grass,  though  unsuccessful  financially,  kept  his 
name  before  a  portion  of  the  public.  An  edition  in  1867  showed  some 
taming  of  offensive  passages,  and  relatively  harmless  new  poems  were 
added.  The  same  was  true  of  the  edition  of  1871.  That  year  he  also  pub- 
lished, in  a  separate  paper-bound  volume,  Passage  to  India,  a  selection 
from  his  older  works  plus  a  few  fresh  pieces,  the  best  of  which  is  the  title 
poem.  In  this  he  took  advantage  of  the  completion  of  the  first  transconti- 
nental railroad  and  of  the  Suez  Canal  to  attract  attention  to  a  message  of 
cosmic  unity,  and  the  result  was  one  of  his  superb  metaphysical  poems. 
Though  fettered  by  Whitman's  too-prevalent  apostrophes,  the  end  of 
the  ode  pours  out  the  ecstasy  of  his  communion  with  God,  and  it  stands 
as  one  of  the  noblest  of  his  utterances,  a  buoyant  song  of  faith.  Drum- 
Taps  and  the  Passage  to  India  volume  are  in  many  ways  the  most  satisfy- 
ing books  published  by  Whitman,  because  they  contain  less  dross  than 
any  of  the  others. 

To  his  surprise,  he  was  invited  in  1871  to  read  a  poem  at  the  opening 
of  the  American  Institute,  the  fortieth  National  Industrial  Exhibition  held 
in  New  York,  and  of  course  he  accepted  the  honor.  The  result,  not  one 
of  his  ablest  works,  to  say  the  least,  was  "After  All,  Not  to  Create  Only," 
later  named  "Song  of  the  Exposition,"  which  was  published  in  the  news- 
papers and  boosted  by  the  self-exploitation  that  the  author,  as  usual, 
supplied  the  press.  One  of  the  reliable  Boston  firms  brought  it  out  as  a 
souvenir  book.  The  next  year,  invited  by  students  of  Dartmouth  to  recite 
a  poem,  he  journeyed  to  that  college  and  read,  rather  monotonously,  the 
ode  later  called  "Thou  Mother  with  Thy  Equal  Brood,"  a  tepid  per- 
formance indeed.  The  United  Literary  Societies  of  the  institution  had 
asked  Whitman  to  appear,  with  the  hope  that  he  would  offend  the  faculty; 
but  the  only  excitement  which  he  occasioned  was  the  result  of  his  shout- 
ing out  "Bravo"  at  the  end  of  a  concert.  In  1874,  it  may  be  added  here, 
an  invitation  from  Tufts  College  resulted  in  "Song  of  the  Universal," 
which  was  read  by  proxy  because  of  its  author's  illness. 

More  effective  in  adding  to  his  reputation  was  the  fact  that  Whitman 
was  piling  up  publications  in  the  magazines.  Few  people  at  best  bought 
volumes  of  new  verse,  but  the  periodicals  were  glanced  at  by  many  more. 
The  New  York  Saturday  Press,  an  organ  of  the  bohemians,  was  regarded 
by  literary  aspirants  as  ranking  with  The  Atlantic  Monthly.  And  Whit- 
man, a  friend  of  the  editor,  had  already  in  1859  put  in  its  pages  one  of 
his  most  popular  efforts,  "A  Child's  Reminiscence,"  eventually  revised 


6i2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

into  "Out  of  the  Cradle  Endlessly  Rocking."  22  Many  critics  have  agreed 
with  Havelock  Ellis  in  describing  it  as  "his  most  perfectly  lyrical  poem." 
It  is  not  only  a  remarkable  composition  in  its  use  of  the  rhythm  of  the 
sea,  but,  along  with  "Out  of  the  Rolling  Ocean  the  Crowd"  (1865),23  is 
one  of  the  few  poems  in  Leaves  of  Grass  which  are  real,  not  theoretical 
or  cosmic,  love  lyrics.  In  i860  he  also  contributed  to  the  Press  "With 
Antecedents,"  under  the  horrific  title  "You  and  Me  and  To-Day,"  and  in 
addition  the  longer  of  his  two  poems  named  "Aiannahatta."  There  was 
also  some  prose.  The  Atlantic  itself  published  in  i860  "Bardic  Symbols," 
later  called  "As  I  Ebb'd  with  the  Ocean  of  Life";  but  not  until  1868  did 
that  esteemed  journal  accept  another,  and  the  second  was  placed  with 
the  help  of  Emerson— "Proud  Music  of  the  Sea-Storm."  This  piece  is  a 
celebration  of  music,  exhibiting  technical  skill  with  sound-effects,  but  is 
not  one  of  Whitman's  masterpieces.  The  New  York  Galaxy  also  found 
room  for  four  of  his  poems  between  1867  and  187 1,  and  Harper  s  pub- 
lished one  of  his  best,  "Prayer  of  Columbus"  (1874).  There  were  other 
magazines  of  lesser  renown  that  accepted  his  offerings,  and  newspapers, 
too,  like  the  New  York  Graphic,  which  in  the  early  seventies  printed 
various  of  his  contributions  in  prose  and  verse.  As  he  grew  older  he  be- 
came more  of  a  magazine  poet  than  ever  before,  and  the  results  are  ap- 
parent in  both  his  style  and  his  subject  matter.  The  effect  of  his  self- 
discipline  in  literature,  quickened  by  reviewers  who  said  that  he  needed 
to  learn  something  about  poetry,  does  not  explain  all  of  the  changes  that 
restrained  the  barbarism  of  his  yawp;  the  place  of  publication  is  also  very 
important.  And,  the  opinion  may  be  ventured,  even  more  of  Whitman's 
later  poems  might  have  been  received  by  the  major  magazines  of  the 
eighties  if  he  had  not  been  so  peremptory  in  demanding  a  definite  date 
of  publication  and  a  peculiar  typographical  form. 

As  has  been  said,  in  1871  Whitman  also  published  one  of  his  more  con- 
siderable ventures  in  prose,  Democratic  Vistas,  in  essence  a  re-examina- 
tion in  the  light  of  later  national  developments  of  one  of  the  chief  themes 
in  the  preface  of  1855,  namely,  the  function  of  literature  in  a  democracy. 
While  it  is  of  value  as  a  treatise  on  this  topic,  its  arguments  tie  themselves 
up  in  knots,  and  its  structure  is  abominable.  Concocted  of  two  articles 
published  in  The  Galaxy,  and  in  part  a  reply  to  Carlvle's  "Shooting 
Niagara,  and  After,"  it  reflects  in  its  shortcomings  the  lazy,  slapdash 
manner  of  composition  which  curses  Whitman's  prose  and,  indeed,  a 
great  deal  of  his  verse.  His  method  of  suggestion,  of  "indirection,"  as  he 
called  it— of  making  the  reader  supply  missing  links— at  times  passes  the 
bounds  of  proper  impressionism  and  degenerates  into  intellectual  chaos. 

For  the  text  sec  T.  O.  Mabbott  and  Rollo  G.  Silver,  A  Child's  Reminiscence 
(Seattle,  1930). 

-'■'■  Supposed  to  have  been  addressed  to  a  married  woman  with  whom  Whitman 
fell  in  love  (Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose,  Vol.  1,  pp.  lviii-lixn.). 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  613 

Whitman  could  have  profited  greatly  by  contemplating  Lessing's  doctrine 
of  the  "representative  moment."  As  has  been  remarked,  Democratic 
Vistas,  despite  its  noble  sentiments,  represents  to  many  a  mind  a  "com- 
posite of  half-conflicting  ideas,  representing  developing  stages  in  Whit- 
man's thought  concerning  democracy,"  but  is  unintegrated,  and  hence  not 
easy  to  analyze  or  even  comprehend.24  "It  remains  entirely  unread,"  the 
author  wrote  in  1872;  yet  two  years  later  it  was  translated  into  Danish  by 
Rudolph  Schmidt,  and  now  its  place  is  secure  among  the  notable  com- 
mentaries on  government  by  the  people. 

This  Scandinavian  critic  was  not  the  only  one  abroad  who  knew  of 
Whitman,  for  copies  of  his  works  had  long  since  made  their  way  across 
the  Atlantic,  and  William  Michael  Rossetti,  who  called  himself  a  demo- 
cratic republican,  had  edited  in  1868  a  volume  of  selections  from  Leaves 
of  Grass.  The  appearance  of  this  edition  in  London  added  very  con- 
siderably to  the  slowly  accelerating  spread  of  the  poet's  name.  Indeed, 
something  of  the  increasing  attention  paid  Whitman  in  his  own  country 
was  due  to  the  voluble  group  of  British  critics  like  Edward  Dowden, 
John  Addington  Symonds,  and  Edward  Carpenter,  who  regarded  the 
American  as  the  chief  radical  poet  of  the  world  since  Victor  Hugo.25 
Joaquin  Miller,  spokesman  of  the  Sierras,  returning  from  a  triumph  in 
England  during  the  early  seventies,  promptly  sought  out  Whitman,  for 
among  the  cognoscenti  in  London  he  had  been  pumped  with  questions 
concerning  the  personality  of  the  man.  And  in  1871  the  news  spread  that 
Tennyson  had  started  a  correspondence  with  the  "poetical  Nebuchad- 
nezzar." The  same  year  appeared  Swinburne's  fervent  "To  Walt  Whit- 
man in  America,"  in  Songs  before  Sunrise.  Such  things  had  effect,  and 
Whitman,  with  the  aid  of  his  friends,  used  them  for  all  they  were  worth. 
But  still  the  sale  of  the  Leaves  netted  its  author-publisher  next  to  noth- 
ing.26 And  Swinburne,  shortly,  was  to  backslide  and  damn  the  American's 
Venus  as  a  Hottentot  wench  under  the  influence  of  cantharides  and  bad 
rum. 

In  1873  came  catastrophe.  A  stroke  of  paralysis  crippled  Whitman  for 
good,  and  all  but  prostrated  him  for  many  months.  The  same  year  the 
death  of  his  favorite  sister-in-law  and  of  his  beloved  mother  added  to 
his  misery,  as  did  his  removal  to  Camden,  New  Jersey,  where  his  easy 
bachelor  ways  were  cramped  by  the  necessity  of  residing  with  his 
brother's  family.  The  severance  of  close  companionship  with  friends  in 

24  Gregory  Paine,  "The  Literary  Relations  of  Whitman  and  Carlyle  with  Especial 
Reference  to  Their  Contrasting  Views  on  Democracy,"  Stud,  in  Phil.,  Vol.  36  (July, 

1939).  P-  559- 

25  Harold  Blodgett,  Walt  Whitman  in  England  (Ithaca,  1934)  discusses  the  critical 
reaction  among  the  British;  Allen,  Whitman  Handbook,  pp.  486  rf.,  surveys  it  in  other 
countries. 

26  It  should  be  remembered,  however,  that  the  plates  of  the  i860  edition  had  come 
into  the  hands  of  an  unscrupulous  wretch  in  New  York,  who  pirated  the  work  and 
kept  the  returns. 


6 14  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Washington  also  upset  him  badly.  In  addition,  the  Centennial  exercises 
in  Philadelphia  did  not  include  him  as  a  featured  celebrant  though  he 
was  close  at  hand  and  in  the  eyes  of  certain  distinguished  critics  in  Europe 
the  American  poet  par  excellence.  But  after  a  few  years  he  was  able  to 
hobble  about,  retire  to  the  country  for  relaxation  or  take  rides  on  the 
ferryboats  or  the  horse  cars  with  something  of  his  old  pleasure.  And 
gradually  he  acquired  a  new  circle  of  friends— like  Horace  Traubel  or 
Dr.  Richard  M.  Bucke,  who  came  all  the  way  from  Canada  to  see  the 
master  of  "cosmic  consciousness."  In  1883  Bucke  compiled  the  second 
biography  of  the  poet,  again  with  the  active  assistance  of  the  subject. 
Increasingly,  Whitman  became  a  prominent  figure  on  the  streets  of 
Camden  and  Philadelphia,  a  subject  for  photographers,  painters,  and 
newspaper  men  in  search  of  a  topic.  Subscriptions  for  funds  to  aid  him 
were  arranged  in  England  and  in  America,  and  he  was  occasionally  in- 
vited to  lecture  on  Lincoln.  Autograph  seekers  wrote  to  him,  and  some- 
times he  merely  pocketed  their  stamps  without  satisfying  their  requests, 
and  many  distinguished  visitors  made  their  way  to  the  humble  cottage 
that  he  bought  for  his  home  in  1884.  Trains  rattled  at  a  crossing  nearby 
and  a  guano  factory  wafted  a  noisome  odor,  but  there  was  a  lilac  bush 
in  the  back  yard;  and  his  housekeeper,  treating  him  like  a  relative,  soon 
learned  to  leave  undisturbed  the  incredible  confusion  of  dust,  books, 
and  papers  which  cluttered  up  his  bedroom. 

He  continued  to  write  many  poems  of  occasion,  sometimes  mere  com- 
mentaries on  the  day's  news,  and  many  pieces  on  immortality  or  the 
mysteries  of  the  soul.  But  late  in  his  life  his  vigor  occasionally  returned, 
for  example,  in  the  splendid  "With  Husky-Haughty  Lips,  O  Sea,"  pub- 
lished in  Harper's  in  1884.  Though  imperfect  in  the  inevitable  few  spots, 
the  reproduction  of  the  rhythms  of  the  sea  in  this  poem  is  refreshingly 
acute,  and  the  use  of  sound-effects  is  worthy  of  Poe. 

By  lengthen'd  swell,  and  spasm,  and  panting  breath, 
And  rhythmic  rasping  of  thy  sands  and  waves, 
And  serpent  hiss,  and  savage  peals  of  laughter, 
And  undertones  of  distant  lion  roar, 

Outsurging,  muttering  from  thy  soul's  abysms, 
The  tale  of  cosmic  elemental  passion, 
Thou  tellest  to  a  kindred  soul. 

In  such  lines  Whitman  showed  that  he  was  still  capable  of  the  sym- 
phonic music  which  reverberates  in  "Out  of  the  Cradle  Endlessly  Rock- 
ing," in  the  great  dirge  on  Lincoln,  or  in  the  finale  of  "Passage  to  India." 
And  they  show  how  far  he  had  retreated  from  his  naive  belief  in  1855 
that  he  ought  to  exert  himself  to  leave  out  stock  "poetical"  touches.  He 
always  decried  art  as  a  "polite  kink1'  and  constantly  bewailed  the  "feudal" 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  615 

character  of  the  Tennysons  and  Shakespeares,  but  in  Leaves  of  Grass 
there  is  displayed  much  traditional  poetical  art— along  with  a  vast  but 
idiomatic  clumsiness.  Of  both  his  art  and  his  clumsiness  he  seems  often 
to  have  been  unaware,  in  spite  of  his  many  revisions;  he  could  not  recite 
his  poems  from  memory,  and,  in  fact,  he  was  sometimes  at  a  loss  to  ex- 
plain their  meaning.  When  pressed  by  Traubel  to  solve  the  secret  of  "A 
Riddle  Song"  (1881),  he  genially  retorted,  "Horace,  I  made  the  puzzle; 
it's  not  my  business  to  solve  it." 

For  the  Centennial  he  prepared  a  new  edition  of  the  Leaves  (1876), 
again  with  himself  as  publisher  and  again  with  the  usual  results,  though 
English  friends  bought  copies  and  paid  extra  prices  because  they  had 
heard  that  he  was  starving.  Possibly  because  of  the  augmented  hubbub 
about  him  in  Europe,  one  of  the  most  reputable  of  the  Boston  publishers 
agreed  in  1881  to  bring  out  his  long-suffering  volume,  with  all  the  "sexu- 
ality odes"  intact  and  with  a  royalty  of  twelve-and-a-half  per  cent.  For 
the  first  time  since  i860,  Leaves  of  Grass  was  to  bear  the  imprint  of  a 
regular  publisher.  Quickly  Whitman  set  to  work  at  a  radical  revision 
and  rearrangement,  and  proceeded  to  Boston  to  advise  with  the  printers, 
for  as  an  old  journeyman  he  was  finicky  about  format.  The  resultant 
Osgood  edition  of  1881  is  the  definitive  collection.  In  the  subsequent  is- 
sues of  1888  and  1892  he  merely  added  "annexes"  at  the  rear,  "Sands  at 
Seventy"  and  "Good-Bye  My  Fancy."  Posthumously,  his  literary  ex- 
ecutors—Bucke,  Traubel,  and  Thomas  B.  Harned— attached  the  final  an- 
nex, "Old  Age  Echoes,"  which  ended  with  his  final  composition,  "A 
Thought  of  Columbus"  (1892).  Of  the  nine  editions  of  Leaves  of  Grass 
supervised  by  the  author,  1855,  1856,  i860,  1867,  1871,  1876,  1881,  1888, 
and  1892,  the  two  of  chief  importance  to  the  student  are  the  first  and  the 
seventh.  The  Osgood  edition  is,  indeed,  the  most  important  of  all,  not 
only  because  it  contains  293  poems  compared  with  the  original  dozen, 
but  because  its  changes  in  title  and  text  and  arrangement  are  definitive. 

The  arrangement  calls  for  a  brief  discussion.  Whitman  called  an  in- 
dividual poem  a  "chant,"  a  "song,"  or  even  a  "warble,"  for  he  was  fond 
of  using  musical  terminology  and  doubtless  meant  that  his  work  should 
be  read  aloud.  Groups  of  related  poems  he  called  "clusters."  It  is  the  ar- 
rangement of  these  clusters,  not  chronology,  that  determines  the  archi- 
tecture of  his  book.  In  the  definitive  edition,  Whitman,  in  characteristic 
fashion,  took  over  something  from  previous  arrangements  and  added 
thereto.  He  placed  first  a  cluster  called  "Inscriptions,"  which  was  ap- 
parently intended  to  warm  the  reader  up  with  fairly  simple  products  of 
his  muse.  Of  these,  "Eidolons"  (1876),  comparatively  regular  in  form,  is 
the  first  that  introduces  a  metaphysical  idea  of  a  demanding  nature.  The 
section  is  followed  by  two  more  difficult  major  chants,  "Starting  from 
Paumanok"  (i860)  and  "Song  of  iYlyself"  (1855).  The  old  portrait  used 
in  1855  as  frontispiece  was  transferred  to  face  the  beginning  of  "Song  of 


616  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Myself,"  appropriately  enough,  for  that  song  was  revised  little,  and  it  is 
the  most  essential  of  all  the  Leaves  for  the  study  of  the  author. 

The  cluster  which  follows,  "Children  of  Adam,"  was  earlier  entitled, 
in  the  i860  edition,  "Enfans  d'Adam"27  and  was  meant  to  celebrate 
amativeness,  or  "the  passion  of  Woman-Love."  Adam,  he  noted  in  an 
early  manuscript,28  was  meant  to  serve  as  the  "central  figure  and  type"— 
bearded,  swart,  and  not  youthful.  Certain  of  the  poems  in  the  cluster,  like 
"I  Sing  the  Body  Electric"  (1855)  and  "A  Woman  Waits  for  Me"  (1856) 
still  bother  squeamish  readers,  though  they  are,  naturally,  ineffective  in 
conveying  the  intensity  of  sexual  excitement.  Adore  appealing  as  love 
poems  by  far  are  the  more  conventional  lyrics  such  as  "Out  of  the  Rolling 
Ocean  the  Crowd,"  already  referred  to,  and  "I  Heard  You  Solemn-Sweet 
Pipes  of  the  Organ"  (1865-66).  But  a  poem  like  "Facing  West  from 
California's  Shores"  (i860)  has  no  apparent  connection  with  sex,  and  yet 
it  stands  in  the  amative  section.  The  explanation  is  that,  despite  his  in- 
tentions, Whitman  upset  his  own  schemes  of  arrangement. 

The  following  group  of  poems,  "Calamus,"  is  also  phrenological  in 
origin  and  was  meant  to  celebrate  adhesiveness— that  is,  the  element  in 
mankind  that  leads  to  comradeship,  the  basis  of  ideal  fraternity.  Accord- 
ingly, this  cluster  was  to  Whitman  one  of  his  most  important.  As  he  ex- 
plained in  a  letter  in  1867, 

"Calamus"  is  a  common  word  here;  it  is  the  very  large  and  aromatic  grass, 
or  root,  spears  three  feet  high — often  called  "sweet  flag" — grows  all  over  the 

Northern  and  Middle  States The  recherche  or  ethereal  sense,  as  used  in 

my  book,  arises  probably  from  it,  Calamus  presenting  the  biggest  and  hardiest 
kind  of  spears  of  grass,  and  from  its  fresh,  aromatic,  pungent  bouquet.29 

In  Democratic  Vistas  he  stated  his  belief  that  adhesive  love,  "at  least 
rivaling  the  amative  love  hitherto  possessing  imaginative  literature,"  could 
be  looked  to  as  a  "counterbalance  and  offset  of  our  materialistic  and  vulgar 
American  democracy,  and  for  the  spiritualization  thereof,"  and  in  one  of 
his  manifold  notes  for  lectures  he  observed: 

. . .  under  present  arrangement,  the  love  and  comradeship  of  a  woman,  of  his 
wife  however  welcome,  however  complete,  does  not  and  cannot  satisfy  the 
grandest  requirements  of  a  manly  soul  for  love  and  comradeship,— The  man 

27  Whitman's  use  of  French  and  Spanish  is  possibly  due  to  the  fact  that  on  his  trip 
to  New  Orleans  he  discovered  that  many  Americans  of  long  standing  actually  used 
those  languages.  Libertad  appeared  on  Mexican  dollars  widely  circulated  in  the  States, 
and  was  thus  familiar.  Moreover,  he  had  somewhere  picked  up  the  theory  that  certain 
French  words  ought  to  be  included  in  the  English  vocabulary.  See  his  list  of  such 
words  in  an  essay  of  1856  (New  York  Dissected,  ed.  Emory  Holloway  and  Ralph 
Adimari,  1936,  pp.  61-65). 

28  Reproduced  opposite  p.  28  of  Ellen  F.  Frey,  Catalogue  of  the  Whitman  Collection 
...Trent  Collection  (1945).  For  Whitman's  views  on  his  treatment  of  sex,  see 
Complete  Prose  Works,  pp.  296-300. 

28  Traubel,  Whitman  in  Camden,  Vol.  3,  p.  299.  Many  Americans  of  the  period 
chewed  the  root  instead  of  tobacco. 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  617 

he  loves,  he  often  loves  with  more  passionate  attachment  than  he  ever  bestows 
on  any  woman,  even  his  wife.30 

So  impassioned  was  the  poet's  own  love  for  his  fellowmen,  and  so 
zealously  did  he  desire  to  make  adhesiveness  a  fervent  passion,  that,  in 
celebrating  it,  he,  like  mystics  describing  the  ecstasy  of  their  communion 
with  God,  employed  sexual  or  seemingly  sexual  imagery.!  As  a  result, 
certain  of  the  "Calamus"  pieces  have  led  readers,  past  as  well  as  present, 
to  believe  that  Whitman  was  a  homosexual,  boldly  writing  of  an  inverted 
love  just  as  did  Theocritus  in  his  twelfth  Idyl. 

If  Whitman's  recollections  are  correct,  Emerson,  upon  observing  his 
nonchalant  familiarity  with  men,  asked  him  whether  he  did  not  fear  that 
it  might  be  misunderstood,  whereupon  Whitman  replied,  "Do  you  mis- 
understand it?"  "He  put  his  hand  on  my  arm,"  the  poet  recalled,  and  said: 
"No:  I  see  it  for  what  it  is:  it  is  beautiful."  31  Less  subject  to  the  possible 
infirmity  of  memory  is  the  fact  that  John  A.  Symonds  in  1872  broached 
to  his  "master,"  Whitman,  the  possibility  of  a  homosexual  interpretation 
of  the  poems  and  in  1890,  emboldened  by  a  long  and  friendly  corre- 
spondence, bluntly  asked  him  to  clear  up  the  matter.  The  poet,  much 
agitated  at  the  "terrible"  and  "damnable"  imputation,  disavowed  "such 
gratuitous  and  quite  at  the  same  time  undreamed  and  unrecked  possibility 
of  morbid  inferences"  and  naively  confessed  that,  though  unmarried,  he 
was  the  father  of  six  children.32  Assuredly,  Symonds  was  ready  to  take 
Whitman's  word  as  to  his  intent;  but  the  reference  to  children  failed  to 
convince,  for  he  himself  was  an  invert,  married,  and  already  at  the  time  of 
his  first  writing  to  the  poet  the  father  of  three  children. 

That  Whitman  actually  was  a  parent  is  not  to  be  questioned,  for  on 
May  23,  1 89 1,  he  corresponded  with  his  friend,  biographer,  and  doctor, 
Bucke,  about  depositing  the  remains  of  various  relatives  in  a  mausoleum 
which  he  had  ordered  built  in  the  Harleigh  Cemetery  in  Camden.  "I  have 
two  deceased  children,"  he  wrote,  "(young  man  &  woman— illegitimate  of 
course)  that  I  much  desire  to  bury  here  with  me— but  have  ab't  abandoned 
the  plan  on  account  of  angry  litigation  and  fuss  generally,  and  disin- 
terment from  down  South."  33  As  for  inversion,  there  is  no  evidence  ex- 
cept that  supplied  by  the  poems— sufficient  in  the  eyes  of  Havelock  Ellis 

30  Democratic  Vistas,  Complete  Prose  Works,  p.  240  n.;  Furness,  Whitman's  Work- 
shop, p.  64. 

31  Traubel,  Whitman  in  Camden,  Vol.  3,  p.  388. 

32Symonds's  letter  of  February  7,  1872,  appears  in  Traubel,  Vol.  1,  pp.  74-76. 
Whitman's  letter,  dated  August  19,  1890,  was  seen  by  Henry  B.  Binns,  who  published 
a  transcribed  excerpt  in  A  Life  of  Walt  Whitman  (London  [1905]),  p.  349.  A  more 
extensive  excerpt,  transcribed,  appears  in  Symonds's  letter  to  Edward  Carpenter, 
Feb.  13,  1893,  published  in  Edward  Naumburg,  "A  Collector  Looks  at  Walt  Whitman," 
Princeton  Univ.  Lib.  Chron.,  Vol  3  (Nov.,  1941),  p.  11.  See  p.  12  of  the  same  for 
gossip  collected  by  Binns  concerning  potential  mistresses  of  the  poet. 

33  Walt  Whitman:  Complete  Poetry  &  Selected  Prose  and  Letters,  ed.  Emory 
Holloway  ([1938]),  p.  1056. 


618  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

and  others  to  indict  him— the  fact  that  he  hugged  and  kissed  many  a  male, 
and  the  following  entries  in  a  notebook  bearing  the  date  July  15,  1870: 

Depress  the  adhesive  nature 

It  is  in  excess— making  life  a  torment 

All  this  diseased,  feverish  disproportionate  adhesiveness  34 

On  the  basis  of  the  shadowy  knowledge  which  now  exists  concerning 
certain  phases  of  his  life,  no  one  can  say  definitely  that  Whitman  was  an 
invert.  That  he  indulged  in  homosexual  activities  seems  unlikely.  There 
is  every  indication  of  his  being  very  cordially  welcomed  by  all  sorts  of 
men— ferryboat  pilots,  horse-car  drivers,  physicians,  and  soldiers— and 
there  exists  no  suggestion  of  the  overt  hostility  which  would  have  been 
inevitable  if  even  a  hint  of  homosexuality  had  come  to  their  attention.  It 
is  dismayingly  ironic  that  certain  readers  have  ascribed  to  an  abnormality 
what  Whitman  considered  the  fervent  basis  of  one  of  the  great  democratic 
dogmas,  the  love  of  one's  fellowmen. 

But  to  return  to  the  analysis  of  the  arrangement  of  Leaves  of  Grass. 
Both  "Children  of  Adam"  and  "Calamus"  had  evolved  as  clusters  in  the 
i860  edition,  and  immediately  following  them  in  the  1881  text  the  poet 
placed  some  of  his  heartiest  "caresser  of  life"  chants,  like  "Salut  au 
Monde!"  based  in  part  on  Volney's  Ruins,  "Song  of  the  Open  Road" 
(1856),  considered  by  Carl  Sandburg  as  Whitman's  best  poem,  and 
"Crossing  Brooklyn  Ferry"  (1856).  Various  other  songs  follow,  and  then 
comes  a  cluster  called  "Birds  of  Passage,"  a  kind  of  omnium  gatherum 
with  no  certain  theme  in  common.  "Sea-Drift,"  the  next  cluster,  includes 
some  of  his  finest  work,  a  number,  but  not  all,  of  the  splendid  poems 
dealing  with  the  sea.  "By  the  Roadside,"  which  ensues,  is  also  a  miscel- 
laneous group,  and  it  ends  with  the  transitional  "To  the  States"  (i860), 
an  indictment  of  the  "presidentiads"  of  Fillmore,  Pierce,  and  Buchanan, 
which  seemed  to  him  "filthy"  in  preparing  the  way  for  a  war.  "Drum- 
Taps"  follows  as  an  interlude  of  war  poems,  succeeded  by  "Memories  of 
President  Lincoln."  Then,  as  if  the  reader  might  have  been  sidetracked 
by  the  two  preceding  clusters,  Whitman  placed  next  "By  Blue  Ontario's 
Shore"  (1856),  which  is  largely  made  up  from  the  preface  of  1855.  In  this 
way,  Whitman  may  have  thought,  the  reader,  of  whom  he  was  ever 
mindful,  would  be  once  again  reminded  of  the  main  themes  of  the 
Leaves. 

"Autumn  Rivulets,"  following,  is  a  cluster  which  marks  a  shift  in 
criterion-in  logic  called  a  cross  division— for  it  is  obvious  that  now  the 
author  is  thinking  of  the  autumn  of  his  own  life.  But  once  again  the 

1  Uncollected  Poetry  and  Prose,  Vol.  2,  p.  96.  The  most  complete  record  of  one 
of  Whitmans  ''Calamus"  friendships  appears  in  the  letters  to  Peter  Doyle  (Calamus, 
cd.  R.  M.  Buckc,  Boston,  1897). 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  619 

central  unifying  idea  is  not  to  be  discovered  in  all  the  poems  in  the  group. 
Next  follow  a  few  chants,  good  and  bad,  including  "The  Sleepers" 
(1855),  which  in  some  ways  reminds  one  of  the  night  scene  in  Sartor 
Resartus,  one  of  the  source  books  of  Leaves  of  Grass.  This  piece  is  said 
to  offer  "a  clue  to  the  whole  poetic  mentality"  of  its  author.35  But  beyond 
the  purpose  of  suggesting  the  whimsical  mentality  of  one  dreaming,  its 
meaning  to  the  present  writer  is  unintelligible.  The  next  cluster,  "Whis- 
pers of  Heavenly  Death,"  comprises  some  of  the  songs  of  the  soul,  and 
again  is  not  convincingly  unified.  It  contains  one  of  the  most  frequently 
analyzed  and  most  difficult  of  Whitman's  poems,  "Chanting  the  Square 
Deiflc"  ( 1 865-66). 36  The  autumnal  idea  is  repeated  in  the  following 
group,  "From  Noon  to  Starry  Night"— again  rather  miscellaneous  in 
content  and  displaying  the  increased  interest  of  the  author  in  "poetical" 
titles.  The  idea  was  presumably  borrowed  from  a  plan  which  Whitman 
had  earlier  conceived  for  a  "Nature-poem  that  should  carry  one's  ex- 
periences a  few  hours,  commencing  at  noon-flush,  and  so  through  the 
after-part  of  the  day."  37  "Songs  of  Parting,"  the  subsequent  cluster,  is 
clear  enough  in  intention,  though  not  in  practice,  and  ends  with  "So 
Long!"— an  adieu  to  the  reader,  to  whom  Whitman  sought  to  appear  in 
the  Leaves  as  a  distinct  personality  in  direct  conversation  with  another 
distinct  personality. 

The  organic  weakness  of  the  definitive  arrangement  of  the  book  38 
furnishes  the  best  proof  of  the  essential  incapacity  of  its  author  to  adhere 
to  the  elementary  principles  of  unity  and  coherence.  As  he  himself  ob- 
served, he  had  "a  damned  ill-regulated  mind."  But  yet  it  was  an  interesting 
and  ambitious  mind  that  had  attempted  to  put  a  whole  man,  body  and 
soul,  within  the  covers  of  one  volume-and  a  woman,  too.  It  was  life,  not 
art,  that  Whitman  sought  to  capture. 

While  the  Osgood  edition  marked  the  fulfillment  ol  Whitman's  schemes 
for  the  arrangement  of  his  poems,  and  started  out  with  an  encouraging 
sale,  its  publisher  was  soon  threatened  with  prosecution;  and,  after  some 
backing  and  filling,  the  author,  refusing  even  a  minimum  of  revision, 
found  himself  once  again  the  possessor  of  the  plates  of  his  book.  A  Phila- 
delphia firm,  however,  took  over,  an  order  banning  the  transmission  of 
the  work  through  the  mails  was  revoked,  and  for  a  few  months  Leaves 
of  Grass  enjoyed  considerable  popularity  as  a  naughty  book.  But  all  too 
soon  it  returned  to  its  normal  disfavor. 

35  Emory  Holloway,  Whitman:  An  Interpretation  in  Narrative  (1926),  pp.  123  ff. 

36  As  plausible  and  as  elaborate  an  explanation  as  any  is  George  L.  Sixbey, 
"  'Chanting  the  Square  Deific'-a  Study  in  Whitman's  Religion,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  9 
(May,  1937),  pp.  171-195. 

37  Specimen  Days,  Complete  Prose  Works,  p.  191. 

38  For  different  analyses  of  the  arrangement,  see  Irving  C.  Story,  "The  Structural 
Pattern  of  Leaves  of  Grass,"  Pacific  Univ.  Bull.,  Vol.  38  (Jan.  1942),  pp.  2-12;  and 
Holloway's  introduction  to  the  recent  Everyman  Library  edition  of  the  Leaves. 


62o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  various  editions  of  the  Leaves  were  not  the  only  books  which  were 
brought  out  during  Whitman's  final  period.  In  publishing  separately  the 
two  annexes  of  poems  following  the  Osgood  edition,  "Sands  at  Seventy," 
in  November  Boughs  (1888),  and  "Good-Bye  My  Fancy,"  in  a  volume 
with  that  title  (1891),  the  author  added  bits  of  prose  as  well  as  prefaces. 
One  of  these  latter,  the  preface  to  November  Boughs,  entitled  "A  Back- 
ward Glance  o'er  Travel'd  Roads,"  is  probably  the  most  effective  of  the 
several  which  he  wrote,39  and  presents  his  final  view  of  his  own  accom- 
plishment. His  verdict  was  that  Leaves  of  Grass  had  not  gained  the  ac- 
ceptance of  his  own  time.  Nonetheless,  optimist  to  the  last,  he  appealed 
to  the  future.  Unlike  most  of  his  earlier  attempts  to  express  his  purposes 
and  describe  his  indirect  methods,  this  essay  seems  restrained  and  fairly 
well-rounded.  The  statements  therein  contained  may  at  times  be  ques- 
tioned in  view  of  earlier  assertions,  but  "A  Backward  Glance"  must  be 
rated  as  one  of  the  most  important  of  Whitman's  efforts  in  prose. 

During  his  final  period  Whitman  published  also  several  volumes  con- 
taining nothing  but  prose.  In  1875  appeared  Memoranda  During  the  War, 
sixty-eight  pages  of  notes  and  reflections  prompted  by  his  activities  as 
a  nurse  in  the  Washington  hospitals.  Apparently,  he  had  planned  such  a 
book  while  the  war  was  on,  as  a  means  of  raising  funds  for  the  benefit 
of  his  invalid  soldiers.  Scarcest  of  all  his  first  editions,  it  was  the  next  year 
embodied  in  Tvoo  Rivulets  (1876),  a  miscellany  of  poetry  and  prose,  in- 
cluding Democratic  Vistas.  The  chief  volume  of  Whitman's  prose,  how- 
ever, is  Specimen  Days  &  collect  (1882).  The  major  part  of  this  book  is 
a  very  informal  autobiography,  the  Memoranda  thrown  in,  as  well  as 
commentary  on  Carlyle,  Emerson,  Longfellow,  and  Poe.  Various  reflec- 
tions on  the  West  are  also  notable  elements  in  its  contents,  for  Whitman 
had  long  contemplated  the  effect  of  the  new  states  on  older  America,  and 
in  1879  had  taken  a  trip  as  far  as  Colorado.  Specimen  Days  also  reveals 
how  zestfully  the  poet  welcomed  the  science  of  the  day.  As  early  as 
1855,  he  seems  to  have  been  an  evolutionist,  and  he  uttered  a  gladsome 
hurrah  for  "positive  science."  When  the  theories  of  Darwin  and  of 
Herbert  Spencer  were  discussed  in  the  newspapers  and  magazines,  he 
seized  upon  what  he  understood  of  them  with  avidity,  for  they  seemed 
to  corroborate  his  intuitive  conviction  of  a  ceaseless  progression  in  nature 
and  in  human  life.  In  general,  most  of  the  ideas  in  Specimen  Days  mirror 
the  essential  views  expressed  in  the  Leaves.  But  more  admirable  than  the 
literary  criticism-good  as  it  often  is  40— and  the  thoughts  on  such  large 

8»  Several  unpublished  prefaces  may  be  found  in  Furness,  Whitman's  Workshop. 
The  genesis  of  "A  Backward  Glance"  is  discussed  in  Walt  Whitman's  Backward 
Glances,  cd.  Scullcy  Bradley  and  John  A.  Stevenson  (Philadelphia,  1947). 

1,1  For  Whitman  as  a  critic,  sec  Norman  Foerster,  American  Criticis?n  (Boston  and 
New  York,  1928),  pp.  157-222;  Maurice  O.  Johnson,  Walt  Whitman  as  a  Critic  of 
Literature  (Lincoln,  Neb.,  1938);  and  C.  J.  Furness,  "Walt  Whitman's  Estimate  of 
Shakespeare,"  Harvard  Stud,  and  Notes  in  Phil,  and  Lit.,  Vol.  14  (1932),  pp.  1-33. 


DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE  621 

entities  as  the  West  and  modern  science,  is  the  reverential  and  joyous 
devotion  to  nature  exhibited  by  the  old  Romantic.  The  very  last  entry  in 
Specimen  Days  is  an  arresting  indication  of  the  necessity  of  outdoor  life 
to  temperaments  such  as  his.  City  poet  that  he  was,  of  Manhattan  the 
son,  he  ended  with  the  affirmation  that  American  democracy  must  be 
vitalized  by  regular  contact  with  "farm-scenes,  animals,  fields,  trees,  birds, 
sun-warmth  and  free  skies,  or  it  will  morbidly  dwindle  and  pale."  Had 
Whitman  lived  to  see  them,  he  would  have  rejoiced  in  the  week-end 
procession  of  motor  cars  leaving  our  big  cities,  and  he  would  have  sung 
more  lustily  in  his  bathtub  after  observing  the  myriads  tanning  themselves 
on  the  summer  beaches. 

The  remainder  of  the  volume,  the  "Collect"  part,  reprints  Democratic 
Vistas,  the  prefaces  of  1855,  1872,  and  1876,  the  essay  "Poetry  To-day  in 
America,"  and  several  other  pieces  from  the  magazines.  Of  organic  struc- 
ture the  book  has  nothing.  The  final  Complete  Prose  Works  (1892)  added 
to  Specimen  Days  &  collect  a  few  more  notes  of  an  autobiographical*  na- 
ture as  well  as  several  essays,  like  "The  Bible  as  Poetry"  and  "Robert 
Burns  as  Poet  and  Person."  Since  1892,  of  course,  a  larger  batch  of  his 
prose  has  been  collected  from  newspapers  and  magazines  or  printed  for 
the  first  time  from  the  bewildering  mass  of  manuscripts  which  he  left. 
But,  as  Whitman  himself  maintained,  his  visiting  card  to  posterity  is 
Leaves  of  Grass,  the  first  volume  of  free  verse  in  the  history  of  American 
literature  and  the  most  insistent  championing  of  democracy  in  the  poetry 
of  the  world. 


Chapter  31 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES 


With  the  constant  increase  in  the  number  of  new  periodicals  in  the  later 
part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  production  of  verse,  as  well  as  pay- 
ments therefor,  became  larger  than  ever  before.  And  in  the  better  peri- 
odicals the  quality  of  the  new  verse  showed  a  marked  improvement  over 
that  which  had  characterized  the  average  magazine  product  before  the 
Civil  War— often  as  high  as  the  skyscrapers,  said  Howells,  but  rarely  as 
high  as  the  skies.  Such  volumes  of  poems  by  the  new  poets  as  appeared 
were  usually  paid  for  by  the  authors  themselves  until  a  sufficient  reputa- 
tion had  been  established  to  warrant  a  publisher's  taking  a  risk.  At  the 
outset  of  their  careers  the  younger  literary  aspirants,  as  a  rule,  sought  to 
waylay  fame  by  writing  verse,  until,  in  the  nineties,  they  were  seduced 
by  the  attractions  of  fiction,  for  poetry  was  then  more  widely  honored 
than  it  is  today.  But  few  of  the  poets  confined  themselves  wholly  to  verse, 
the  chief  exception  being  Emily  Dickinson,  who  is  now  regarded  as  the 
only  important  new  poet  of  the  era.  With  legions  of  versifiers  storming 
the  American  Parnassus,  and  with  the  honor  associated  with  the  craft,  it 
may  seem  remarkable  that  only  one  new  poet  of  great  consequence 
should  have  reared  her  head  above  the  singing  throng  in  the  final  quarter 
of  the  century.  The  versifiers  of  the  day,  disturbed  by  the  apparent 
mediocrity,  attributed  the  phenomenon  to  various  causes.  In  a  poem 
significantly  called  "Realism, "  Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich  concluded  that 
the  muse  had  gone  wandering  in  remote  and  alien  ways  because  of  the 
"commonplace,  polemic,  scientific  air."  And  Edmund  C.  Stedman,  view- 
ing "The  Twilight  of  the  Poets"  in  The  Century  for  September,  1885, 
was  inclined  to  agree.  Both  in  Europe  and  in  America,  he  thought,  the 
reason  for  the  poetical  decline  was  the  "rapid  changes  in  the  course  of 
the  imagination"  brought  about  by  the  advance  of  science,  the  disturbance 
of  traditional  convictions,  "the  leap  from  romance  to  realism,"  the  di- 
verting of  genius  to  "material  conquests,  adventure,  the  creation  of  for- 
tunes," and  the  growth  of  journalism  and  of  prose  fiction  which  answered 

622 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  623 

the  demands  of  the  time.  He  noted,  also,  the  possible  effect  of  the  Civil 
War  on  the  younger  men  to  whom  the  songs  of  Apollo  seemed  trivial 
compared  with  the  shouts  of  Mars,  and,  more  convincingly,  observed  that 
the  favorite  senior  bards  were  still  in  such  full  voice  that  they  restrained 
the  zeal  and  postponed  the  "opportunities  of  pupils  who  hold  them  in 
reverence." 

The  reverence  is  not  to  be  questioned,  for  many  of  the  younger  au- 
thors were  encouraged  and  aided  by  Lowell  and  Holmes,  and  imitations 
of  Longfellow's  hexameters  or  of  Whittier's  ballads  abound  in  their  works. 
James  Whitcomb  Riley  achieved  his  first  notoriety  by  faking  a  poem  by 
Poe,  and  the  more  academic  William  Vaughn  Moody,  in  the  class-day 
poem  at  his  Harvard  graduation,  paid  his  respects  to  Longfellow  "with 
the  blossomed  hair"  and  to  Emerson,  who  seemed  to  weigh  "the  star-dust 
and  the  years."  Whitman,  however,  in  spite  of  all  the  critical  discussion 
of  the  eighties,  seems  to  have  had  little  influence.  His  jolting  Pegasus  did 
not  conform  to  the  patterns  approved,  and  that  was  enough  to  dispose  of 
him.  But  there  were  a  few  signs  of  reverence.  After  reading  the  Leaves 
for  the  first  time  in  1878,  Sidney  Lanier  expressed  his  admiration  for  its 
musical  rhythms  and  its  gusto,  but  found  the  verse  too  often  mere  raw 
collops  from  the  rump  of  poetry.  Late  in  the  century  Joaquin  Miller 
seems  to  have  been  moved  by  Whitman's  spiritual  message,  and  Bliss 
Carman  and  Richard  Hovey  appear  to  have  borrowed  something  of  his 
zest  for  living  for  their  Songs  from  Vagabondia.  It  was  not  until  the  twenti- 
eth century  that  free  verse  acquired  a  vogue,  and  then  Whitman  became  in- 
fluential through  the  medium  of  vers  libre  written  by  Frenchmen  like 
Laforgue.  Carl  Sandburg  is  the  only  modern  American  poet  of  note  who 
developed  his  form  directly  from  the  master,  and  it  took  him  years  of 
trial  before  he  could  shake  himself  loose  from  the  peculiar  idioms  of 
Leaves  of  Grass.  That  was  one  of  the  troubles  besetting  those  who  rev- 
erenced Whitman:  his  form  was  so  markedly  idiosyncratic  that  the 
imitator  could  do  little  but  write  parodies.  Then,  too,  Whitman  had 
been  too  ambitious.  "In  looking  around  at  the  publications  of  the  younger 
American  poets,"  wrote  Lanier,  "I  am  struck  with  the  circumstance  that 
none  of  them  even  attempt  anything  great.  The  morbid  fear  of  doing 
something  wrong  or  unpolished  appears  to  have  influenced  their  choice 
of  subjects."  x 

It  was  safer  to  follow  the  old  patterns  in  thought  and  in  manner.  Classi- 
cal poetry  was  still  honored,  even  among  poets  who  possessed  no  bache- 
lor's degree,  and  the  whole  tradition  of  European  verse  was  like  a  tide 
on  which  one  needed  merely  to  float.  And  so  the  young  men  frequently 
made  moan  in  the  mood  of  Keats,  smelled  the  muskrose  or  played  with 
medievalism  at  third  remove  with  Tennyson,  or  marshalled  their  verses 

1  To  Bayard  Taylor,  Nov.  24,  1876  (The  Centennial  Edition  of  the  Works  of  Sidney 
Lanier,  10  Vols.  [1945],  Vol.  9,  p.  413). 


624  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  the  mellifluous  manner  of  Swinburne.  From  Germany  came  the  lyrical 
attractions  of  Heine,  and  the  Orient  provided  not  only  the  vastly  popular 
Omar  but  Hafiz  and  others  as  well.  The  Old  French  forms  as  used  bv 
Dobson  in  England  inspired  many  a  ballade  and  villanelle  in  the  nineties, 
a  period  which  saw,  however,  only  slight  signs  of  the  influence  of  the 
Svmbolists.2  In  general,  the  many  poets  of  America  during  the  seventies 
and  eighties  were,  as  Bayard  Taylor  called  them,  "epigonous"— following 
in  the  wake,  and  seldom  catching  the  rarer  melody  which  lurks  back  of 
metrical  correctness.  They  rank  no  higher  in  American  estimation  today 
than  do  Geibel  and  Bodenstedt  or  Watson  and  Morris  in  the  opinion  of 
Europeans.  The  world  at  large  boasts  few  poetical  giants  of  the  period, 
and  when  it  is  recalled  that  at  the  very  time  the  Centennial  was  being 
celebrated,  General  Custer  with  his  expedition  was  massacred  by  Sitting 
Bull  and  Crazy  Horse  in  the  Battle  of  the  Little  Big  Horn,  no  one  needs 
to  apologize.  The  country  was  busy  acting  out  the  raw  materials  for  a 
still-unwritten  epic,  and  the  shrinking  from  the  primitive  with  the  con- 
comitant obsequiousness  toward  European  culture  was  entirely  natural. 
Yet  one  who  looks  closely  can  see  that  poetry  on  American  topics  made 
irregular  but  steady  progress  throughout  the  period.  The  old  guard  had 
already  paved  the  way:  they  had  dared  to  mention  the  crow  and  to  adore 
the  fringed  gentian. 


Of  the  younger  verse  writers,  the  man  who  was  considered  the  chief 
living  poet  after  the  death  of  Longfellow  and  Whittier  was  Thomas 
Bailev  Aldrich  (1836- 1907).  Though  born  in  New  England,  he  lived  for 
a  while  in  New  Orleans  and  entered  the  literary  world  through  journalism 
in  New  York  City.  As  a  critic  for  N.  P.  Willis's  Evening  Mirror,  he  re- 
viewed the  books  of  the  older  poets  and  thus  came  to  know  them  through 
correspondence.  He  also  associated  with  various  New  York  poets  like 
Richard  Henry  Stoddard  (1825-1903)  and  the  band  of  bohemians  whose 
Saturday  Press  he  helped  to  edit.  His  first  recognition  came  in  1855  with 
"The  Ballad  of  Babie  Bell,"  a  sentimental  piece  dealing  with  the  death  of 
a  child,  which  went  the  rounds  of  the  newspapers  and  was  recited  bv 
Artemus  Ward.  Keats,  Chatterton,  Poe,  Bryant,  Willis,  and  especially 
Longfellow  and  Tennyson,  were  all  influential  upon  his  early  work,  which 
was  of  course  strong  in  old-fashioned  sentiment  and,  as  Holmes  remarked, 
vitiated  by  "vanilla-flavored  adjectives"  and  "cloying  euphemisms." 
Tennyson  &  Company,  he  thought,  were  "good  corks  with  which  to  learn 
to  swim,"  !  but  it  was  many  a  moon  before  he  could  do  without  them. 
In  1865  his  removal  to  Boston  as  editor  of  Every  Saturday,  published  by 

2  Rene  Taupin,  V Influence  du  Symbolisme  Frangais  sur  la  Poesie  Americaine,  1910- 
Kj2o  (Paris,  1929). 

3  Ferris  Grccnslct,  The  Life  of  Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich  (1908),  p.  71. 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  625 

the  same  firm  that  issued  The  Atlantic,  soon  brought  him  into  close  con- 
tact with  Holmes  and  Lowell  and  with  young  William  Dean  Howells, 
himself  a  newcomer  to  the  revered  shades  of  the  Hub.  By  1874,  when  he 
retired  to  live  the  life  of  a  free  lance,  he  had  published  seven  volumes  of 
verse  and  four  of  prose,  and  was  known  as  a  delightful  and  witty  author 
of  excellent  promise. 

But  the  precarious  state  of  the  book  market  for  newer  authors  soon 
drove  Aldrich  back  to  an  editor's  desk,  and  in  1881  he  succeeded  Howells 
as  director  of  the  destiny  of  The  Atlantic.  Until  his  resignation  ten  years 
later,  he  wrote  little  verse  but  added  measurably  to  his  prose.  The  high 
standards  which  he  set  for  contributors  he  continued  to  apply  to  himself 
when  once  again  he  donned  his  singing  robes,  but  he  was  inclined  toward 
conservatism.  As  the  literary  gods  who  had  made  all  America  bow  the 
knee  to  New  England  passed  away,  Aldrich  remained  as  a  kind  of  belated 
Boston-plated  Brahmin.  The  hordes  of  immigrants  who  were  to  change 
so  completely  the  intellectual  atmosphere  of  the  East  aroused  him  in  1892 
to  pen  a  poetical  warning  about  "Unguarded  Gates."  And  the  income  tax 
he  cursed  as  the  deformed  child  of  "Coxey's  army  and  his  brother  scala- 
wags." But  in  1899  he  repented  of  voting  for  McKinley  when  he  saw 
the  enslavement  of  the  Philippines.  He  preferred  to  travel  in  Europe  rather 
than  in  America,  though  in  his  prose  he  dealt  gracefully  with  the  New 
England  scene,  and  undoubtedly  he  would  have  forsaken  the  company  of 
his  friend  Mark  Twain  at  any  time  to  be  in  the  presence  of  the  adored 
Tennyson. 

The  older  he  grew  the  more  readily  he  abandoned  the  sentimentality  of 
his  youth,  and  his  later  talent  revealed  itself  with  full  force  in  a  number 
of  short  lyrics,  the  best  of  which  is  "Memory,"  and  in  a  few  narrative 
poems  of  unusual  skill.  Psychology  and  metaphysics  were  his  aversion, 
and  as  a  result  his  late  verse  is  as  objective  as  that  vaunted  by  the 
"Imagists."  His  sharpened  critical  sense  and  the  departure  from  his  early 
tendency  to  exaggerate  sentiment  resulted  in  a  fortunate  winnowing  of 
his  wares,  and  he  is  well  represented  in  the  two  small  volumes  of  verse 
which  he  chose  for  his  collected  works  (1907).  A  bit  of  wit  and  a  good 
feeling  for  condensation  reveal  him  as  a  lesser  Herrick  in  some  of  his 
shorter  pieces.  Unlike  Herrick's,  however,  the  best  of  Aldrich's  poems 
are  wholly  without  national  coloring,  though  he  addressed  lyrics  to  such 
brothers  in  verse  as  Bayard  Taylor,  H.  H.  Brownell,  and  Lowell,  cele- 
brated the  Civil  War  as  well  as  "Spring  in  New  England,"  and  tried  his 
hand  at  a  Longfellowesque  Indian  narrative,  "Miantowona."  A  few  of 
his  pieces  have  a  Russian  setting,  for  example,  the  humorous  "At  Nijnii- 
Novgorod,"  the  ironic  "Batuschka,"  and  the  dramatic  "Pauline  Pav- 
lovna,"  this  last  with  a  neat  plot  and  a  surprise  ending.  Many  more  of 
his  poems  are  provided  with  an  Oriental  background. 

Of  his  longer  narratives  the  best  are  Friar  Jerome's  Beautiful  Book 


6z6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

(1865),  a  twelfth-century  tale  of  a  monk  who  abandoned  work  with  the 
poor  to  practice  his  art  as  an  illuminator  and  copyist,  and  The  Legend  of 
Ara-Coeli  (1876),  the  story  of  an  Italian  peasant  who  steals  the  figure  of 
the  infant  Jesus  from  a  church  to  compensate  for  her  own  childlessness. 
Both  might  well  have  appeared  in  Longfellow's  Tales  of  a  Wayside  Inn. 
The  same  is  true  of  the  longer  Judith  and  Holof ernes,  a  retelling  of  the 
old  Bible  story,  which  he  made  over  into  a  play,  performed  in  Boston 
and  New  York  with  little  success.  Another  drama,  Mercedes  (1894),  witn 
a  setting  in  Spain  in  18 10,  was  more  favorably  received  on  the  stage  but 
is  of  little  consequence  to  the  reader  today.  Richer  in  diction  by  far  is 
Wyndham  Towers  (1890),  which  the  author  rightlv  considered  to  be 
his  best  long  poem.  It  was  probably  the  narratives  which  gave  Aldrich 
most  of  his  poetical  reputation,  for  they  seemed  to  be  good  tales,  culti- 
vated in  subject  and  in  treatment,  quite  the  equal  of  those  of  William 
Morris. 

Aldrich's  prose  also  added  materially  to  his  fame.  At  present,  however, 
nothing  of  it  survives  save  one  of  his  several  short  stories,  "Marjorie 
Daw"— though  he  wrote  also  three  full-length  novels,  as  well  as  a  juvenile, 
The  Story  of  a  Bad  Boy  (1869),  and  a  few  essays.  The  juvenile  is  very 
good  reading,  though  weak  in  plot.  It  is  full  of  real  life  in  an  old-fashioned 
New  England  town,  with  amateur  dramatics,  Fourth-of-July  accidents, 
and  fights  with  snowforts.  Much  of  it  seems  to  be  straight  autobiography, 
of  a  charming  variety.  Very  probably  its  great  success,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  encouraged  Mark  Twain  to  attempt  something  very  similar  in 
The  Adventures  of  Tom  Sawyer,  even  as  a  letter  of  Aldrich's  4  treating 
Emerson,  Longfellow,  and  Holmes  as  bandits  must  have  led  Clemens  to 
elaborate  upon  the  idea  in  his  notorious  Whittier  Birthday  speech  delivered 
in  Boston. 

While  Aldrich's  metrical  skill  and  terseness  are  commendable,  the  ob- 
jections now  raised  to  his  poems  are  the  same  as  those  which  have  dimmed 
the  reputation  of  Landor.  Nevertheless,  his  narratives  are  the  most  fin- 
ished of  any  written  by  an  American  poet  between  the  time  of  Long- 
fellow and  that  of  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson,  and  a  few  of  his  little  lyrics 
in  nutshells  are  perfect. 


Another  poet  of  the  later  nineteenth  century,  but  of  inferior  ability, 
is  Edmund  C.  Stedman  (1833-1908),  now  best  known  for  his  work  as 
critic  and  editor.  He  was  expelled  from  Yale,  which  he  entered  in  1849, 
and  for  a  time  engaged  in  newspaper  journalism  in  Connecticut.  After  a 
short  period  of  reporting  for  the  New  York  World  during  the  early  days 

1  Grccnslct,  Aldrich,  p.  115.  Aldrich's  novels  arc  discussed  by  Alexander  Cowie 
ill  "Indian  Summer  Novelist,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  15  (Dec,  1942),  pp.  608-621, 
and  in  The  Rise  of  the  American  Novel  (I1948I),  pp.  579-591. 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  627 

of  the  Civil  War,  he  eventually  became  a  broker  in  New  York  City. 
Known  as  the  banker-poet,  he  had  a  real  liking  for  business  and  retained 
his  interest  in  it  until  his  death.  Literature,  as  a  result,  became  with  him 
an  amiable  sideline.  Yet,  though  he  produced  little  poetry  himself  in  his 
later  years,  he  became  the  leading  expert  on  verse  and  encouraged  by 
criticism  or  otherwise  a  large  number  of  poets,  including  Whitman  and 
Robinson.  He  first  attracted  notice  in  1859,  when  "The  Diamond  Wed- 
ding," satiric  verses  on  the  marriage  of  a  wealthy  old  Cuban  and  a  New 
York  girl  of  teen-age,  led  to  threats  of  prosecution.  The  humorous  "Ballad 
of  Lager  Bier"  added  popularity,  as  did  also  "Honest  Abe  of  the  West," 
one  of  the  earliest  of  the  Lincoln  campaign  songs.  In  1862  he  struck  an- 
other popular  note  in  "Wanted— A  Man,"  a  plea  for  military  leadership, 
each  stanza  of  which  ends  with  the  words,  "Abraham  Lincoln,  give  us  a 
Man!"  At  a  later  time  of  crisis,  the  Black  Friday  of  September  24,  1869, 
when  it  seemed  that  the  nation  was  at  the  mercy  of  thieves,  he  wrote 
"Israel  Freyer's  Bid  for  Gold."  This  contains  the  following  lines  on  Jim 
Fiske,  most  picturesque  of  American  robber-barons: 

But  it  matters  most,  as  it  seems  to  me, 

That  my  countrymen,  great  and  strong  and  free, 

So  marvel  at  fellows  who  seem  to  win, 

That  if  even  a  clown  can  only  begin 

By  stealing  a  railroad,  and  use  its  purse 

For  cornering  stocks  and  gold,  or— worse— 

For  buying  a  Judge  and  Legislature, 

And  sinking  still  lower  poor  human  nature, 

The  gaping  public,  whatever  befall, 

Will  swallow  him,  tandem,  harlots,  and  all! 

No  one  of  our  twentieth-century  poets  of  protest  has  surpassed  Sted- 
man  in  the  courage  exhibited  here,  though  many  have  displayed  better 
skill. 

By  1 89 1  he  had  published  eight  volumes  of  verse— the  earliest  appeared 
in  i860— but  the  total  body  of  his  poetry  is  small.  His  attempts  at  humor 
are  far  inferior  to  those  of  John  G.  Saxe  (1816-87),  most  widely  esteemed 
writer  of  light  verse  in  the  sixties  and  seventies;  his  war  poems  are  with- 
out merit;  and  his  translations  from  Homer  and  .ZEschylus  are  mere 
academic  exercises.  Best  are  his  narratives,  like  "How  Old  Brown  Took 
Harper's  Ferry"  (i860)  or  "Pan  in  Wall  Street"  (1867),  both  well-known 
anthology  pieces.  His  more  pretentious  idyl  of  the  Civil  War,  Alice  of 
Monmouth  (1863),  reeks  of  Longfellow  and  Tennyson  and  is  worthless 
except,  perhaps,  for  its  glimpse  of  Washington  in  wartime.  The  Blame- 
less Prince  (1869)  is  likewise  only  a  reminder  of  the  prevailing  taste  of 
the  period:  a  Tennysonian  tale  of  the  secret  love  of  a  prince  for  a  lady 
of  lesser  degree,  which  contains  lines  like  these: 


628  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

High  o'er  the  Abbey  heard  the  minster  toll 
Its  doleful  bell,  as  for  a  passing  soul. 

The  influence  of  Poe  is  apparent  in  such  of  his  works  as  "Country 
Sleighing''  or  k'The  Sleigh-Ride."  It  is  more  to  Stedman's  credit  that,  with 
George  E.  Woodberry,  he  edited  in  ten  volumes  the  works  of  that  author 
(1894-95).  Two  other  editorial  enterprises  gave  him  a  position  some- 
what like  that  more  recently  occupied  by  Louis  Untermeyer,  namelv, 
A  Victorian  Anthology,  1837-1895  (1895)  and  An  American  Anthology, 
1787-1899  (1900),  as  able  compilations  as  have  ever  been  made  of  their 
subject  matter. 

While  preoccupation  with  stocks  and  bonds  and  inability  to  find  a 
worthy  subject  gradually  reduced  the  flow  of  Stedman's  verse,  he  ac- 
quired a  very  considerable  reputation  as  a  literary  arbiter,  and  his  critical 
articles  were  eagerly  sought  by  editors  of  the  leading  magazines.  The 
best  of  these  are  embodied  in  two  books  which  prepared  the  way  for  the 
later  anthologies,  Victorian  Poets  (1875)  and  Poets  of  America  (1885). 
Both  were  widely  read  and  so  respected  that  Stedman  came  to  be  re- 
garded as,  next  to  Lowell,  the  chief  critic  of  the  era.  His  theory  of  poetry, 
apparent  enough  in  these  two  books,  is  more  clearly  enunciated  in  The 
Nature  and  Elements  of  Poetry  (1892),  the  substance  of  discourses  de- 
livered at  The  Johns  Hopkins  University.  Like  Aldrich,  he  reacted 
against  the  didacticism  prevailing  in  his  earlier  day  and  maintained  that 
the  end  of  poetry  was  to  give  pleasure;  but  he  differed  from  Aldrich  in 
being  more  charitably  disposed  toward  the  versifiers  who  came  before 
his  judicial  eye.  He  found  much  more  significance  and  ability  in  Whitman 
than  did  most  of  his  contemporaries,  despite  his  conviction  that  enduring 
esthetic  canons  are  to  be  formulated  from  the  practice  of  the  great  poets 
of  the  past.  A  judicial  critic  who  exhibited  in  his  theories  traces  of  Taine, 
Arnold,  and  Poe,  as  well  as  of  Aristotle  and  Horace,5  he  was  a  lesser 
Lowell,  an  illustration  of  the  hybrid  culture  of  the  age.  His  services  to 
the  study  of  American  literature  rendered  by  the  edition  of  Poe  and  by 
his  critical  discussions  may  prove  to  be  more  valuable  than  the  work  of 
Mr.  Van  Wyck  Brooks  in  our  own  day,  and  certainly  they  are  far  more 
important  than  his  productions  as  a  poet. 


More  spectacular  as  a  personality  than  either  Aldrich  or  Stedman  was 
a  poetical  son  of  the  Far  West  who  applied  the  romantic  moods  of  Byron 
to  the  scenery  of  Oregon  and  early  in  the  seventies  invaded  the  American 

•r>  G.  F.  DeMille,  "Stedman,  Arbiter  of  the  Eighties,"  PMLA,  Vol.  41  (Sept.,  1926), 
p.  761.  See  also  the  same  author's  Literary  Criticism  in  America  (193 1).  The  influence 
of  Aristotle  and  \  lorace  is  considered  by  John  P.  Pritchard,  Return  to  the  Fountains 
(Durham,  N.  C,  1942),  pp.  119-134.  One  phase  of  Stedman's  criticism  is  analyzed  in 
LHUS,  Vol.  2,  pp.  816-818. 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  629 

Parnassus  via  London.  Cincinnatus  Hiner  Miller  (1839?- 19 13)  he  was 
named,  but  after  publishing  a  poem  on  a  notorious  Mexican  outlaw, 
Joaquin  Murietta,  and  being  opprobriously  nicknamed  "Joaquin,"  he 
dropped  his  more  classical  nomenclature.  So  many  tall  tales  have  been 
told  by  himself  and  by  others  about  his  exploits  in  the  Wild  West  that 
it  is  impossible  to  reconstruct  his  early  life  with  any  degree  of  accuracy. 
His  family,  it  seems,  left  southern  Indiana  soon  after  he  was  born  and 
followed  the  Oregon  Trail  to  a  farm  near  Coburg,  Oregon,  where  inn- 
keeping  and  school  teaching  provided  his  parents  with  a  meagre  existence. 
His  youth  was  far  more  bookish  than  one  might  imagine  possible  in  a 
frontier  community,  and  his  education  was  probably  better  than  average 
for  the  rural  areas  of  the  country  at  the  time.  Eventually  he  was  gradu- 
ated from  Columbia  College,  a  mission  school,  where  he  studied  Latin 
and  Greek.  But  his  education  was  constantly  interrupted  by  fits  of  roving 
which  took  him  at  the  age  of  seventeen  to  the  gold  fields  and  led  to  work 
as  a  cook  in  the  camps  of  Oregon  or  as  a  farm  laborer  in  California.  Be- 
fore he  recited  the  class  poem  at  his  "college"  commencement  in  1859, 
he  had  had  a  child  by  an  Indian  woman  and  had  been  chased  by  a  posse 
after  being  jailed  as  a  horse  thief.  Teaching,  mining,  a  pony-express 
business,  the  practice  of  law,  some  Indian  fighting,  and  newspaper  work, 
all  occupied  him  for  a  time,  but  the  fever  of  writing  raged  in  his  veins, 
and  even  when  he  rode  the  rough  trail  from  Idaho  to  the  coast  as  an 
express  agent  he  was  contriving  poems  for  the  newspapers.  The  pacifist 
views  inherited  from  his  Quaker  father  were  so  obnoxious  to  the  authori- 
ties of  Oregon  during  the  Civil  War  that  a  paper  which  he  edited  in 
1862  was  ordered  to  cease  publication.  In  1868  and  1869  two  small  volumes 
of  his  verse  were  locally  published,  Specimens  and  Joaquin  et  al.  Since 
there  was  no  literary  center  in  Oregon,  in  1870  Miller  sailed  for  San 
Francisco,  leaving  his  wife,  herself  a  poet,  behind.  A  man  never  becomes 
famous,  he  is  alleged  to  have  remarked,  unless  he  leaves  his  wife,  or  does 
something  atrocious.  "Lord  Byron  separated  from  his  wife,  and  some  of 
my  friends  think  I  am  a  second  Lord  Byron."  Obviously,  it  was  literature 
that  made  a  poet  as  well  as  a  fool  of  the  man— and  not  the  frontier.  But 
of  the  frontier  he  knew  far  more  at  first  hand  than  Bret  Harte,  Mark 
Twain,  or  any  other  author  associated  with  the  Far  West. 

The  literary  group  in  San  Francisco  failed,  however,  to  absorb  the 
Oregon  Byron,  and  of  those  associated  with  the  best  California  journal, 
The  Overland  Monthly,  only  Ina  Coolbrith  (1842- 192 8)  became  a  close 
friend.  Moreover,  Miller  suffered  severely  from  an  earlier  attack  of  sun- 
blindness  and  was  unfit  for  the  regular  journalistic  post  which  was  the 
only  recourse  of  writers  in  the  provincial  centers.  A  new  fit  of  wander- 
ing came  upon  him,  and  off  to  Scotland  and  England  he  went,  to  see  the 
literary  shrines  so  dear  to  his  heart.  At  the  time,  an  almost  fantastic  in- 
terest in  the  Far  West  existed  in  London,  and  now  the  British  were  to 


630  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

see  in  the  flesh  the  first  writer  from  that  region.  When  he  divined  what 
was  most  liked,  Miller  put  on  a  show  to  exhilarate  the  journalists,  who 
were  all  too  ready  to  publicize  him.  Clad  in  Western  garb,  he  displayed 
feats  of  horsemanship  in  Rotten  Row;  he  spun  yarns  about  fighting 
Indians  in  the  shadows  flung  by  mighty  mountains,  and,  feet  cocked  on 
a  mantelpiece  in  a  drawing  room,  smoked  two  cigars  at  the  same  time, 
solemnly  averring  that  such  was  the  grandiose  custom  in  Oregon.  A 
selection  of  his  poems,  published  at  his  own  expense,  Pacific  Foems 
(187 1 ),  within  a  few  weeks  was  followed  by  Songs  of  the  Sierras  (1871), 
this  time  with  one  of  the  best  of  the  English  firms  as  publisher.  Sym- 
pathetic reviewers,  fascinated  by  the  novelty  of  the  subject  matter,  dwelt 
but  lightly  on  his  weaknesses,  and  straightway  he  was  dining  in  the  com- 
pany of  Rossetti  and  Browning.  As  an  autochthonous  Westerner  and  as 
a  suddenly  arisen  poet,  he  was  entertained  by  Gladstone,  Lord  Houghton, 
and  the  Archbishop  of  Dublin.  Rumors  of  charlatanry,  however,  were 
bruited  about,  especially  when  his  wife,  hearing  of  his  astonishing  re- 
ception, gave  the  American  press  the  story  of  his  abandonment  of  her 
children. 

Returning  home  in  the  autumn  of  1871,  he  basked  in  the  literary  favor 
which  San  Francisco  was  now  ready  to  bestow,  established  his  half-Indian 
child  with  Miss  Coolbrith,  but  soon  travelled  on  to  Brazil.  In  1873  ne  was 
back  again  in  London,  where  Songs  of  the  Sun-Lands  (1873),  Swin- 
burnian  in  manner,  added  fresh  leaves  to  his  laurels.  The  same  year,  with 
the  help  of  Prentice  Mulford,  he  concocted  an  autobiographical  romance 
in  prose,  Life  among  the  Modocs  (1873),  which  was  soon  attacked  by  the 
press  as  spurious  but  nevertheless  was  widely  sold  by  subscription  agents. 
Further  travels,  especially  in  Italy,  equipped  him  with  material  for  a  later 
volume  of  Songs  of  Italy  (1878).  When  Mark  Twain  and  Bret  Harte  ap- 
peared in  England,  to  the  joy  of  their  admirers,  it  was  Miller  who  often 
introduced  them  to  the  polite  hosts  who  sought  to  show  off  the  American 
lions.  Neither  man,  however,  was  capable  of  competing  with  him  in  ex- 
uberance, though  Mark  Twain  gleefully  joined  in  the  recounting  of  tall 
tales  when  the  after-dinner  cigars  were  passed. 

During  the  seventies  and  eighties,  Miller  published  a  number  of  novels 
and  plays  also;  but  they  are  hopeless,  though  one  of  the  novels,  First 
Families  of  the  Sierras  (1875),  enjoyed  a  mild  success  as  an  imitation  of 
Bret  Harte,  and  a  play  based  on  the  same  material,  The  Danites,  was  per- 
formed to  fair  audiences  both  in  New  York  (1877)  and  in  London  (1880). 
Shadows  of  Shasta  (1881),  a  prose  tale  defending  the  Indians  against  the 
attempts  to  confine  them  in  reservations,  may  also  be  mentioned,  as  a  fore- 
runner of  the  superior  Ramona  (1884),  by  Helen  Hunt  Jackson  (1831- 
85),  another  poet— indeed,  the  most  prominent  of  all  the  female  poets  of 
the  seventies.  After  a  divorce  and  a  second  marriage,  to  a  wealthy  Eastern 
woman,  Miller  continued  to  write  but  did  not  publish  in  book  form  until 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  631 

the  nineties.  His  new  environs  on  Long  Island  soon  proved  unByronic, 
and  in  1883  he  removed  to  Washington,  D.  C,  where  to  publicize  himself 
he  erected  a  Western  miner's  cabin  on  Sixteenth  Street,  replete  with 
bearskins  and  Indian  bows  and  arrows.  Soon  his  showmanship  and  the 
demand  for  his  work  both  overreached  themselves,  and  in  1886  he  re- 
turned to  San  Francisco  to  write  for  The  Golden  Era,  then  past  its  prime, 
and  bought  a  plot  of  land  above  Oakland.  There  he  planted  trees,  built 
fountains  and  cabins,  and  continued  writing  much  trash.  The  gold  rush 
to  the  Klondike  in  1 897  was  one  of  several  inducements  to  travel,  and  was 
followed  by  a  tour  of  the  Keith  vaudeville  circuit  on  which  he  delighted 
his  audiences  with  a  fur  suit  and  buttons  made  of  gold  nuggets.  Two 
volumes  of  verse  in  the  nineties,  Songs  of  the  Soul  (1896)  and  A  Song  of 
Creation  (1899),  betray  a  more  philosophical  mind  but  still  maintain  his 
interest  in  narrative.  He  thought  them  better  than  his  earlier  verse,  but 
their  religious  philosophizing  is  more  than  offset  by  his  customary  rattle- 
brained inconsecutiveness.  When  at  home  at  "The  Heights,"  he  en- 
tertained visitors  like  Jack  London  and  James  Whitcomb  Riley,  offered 
advice  to  younger  poets  such  as  Edwin  Markham  and  George  Sterling, 
and  dispensed  rather  foggy  but  benevolent  doctrines  of  love  and  good 
will  as  the  only  means  of  saving  the  world.  In  1908  he  began  working 
on  the  final  edition  of  his  works,  Joaquin  Miller's  Poems  (1909-10),  five 
volumes  of  verse  and  one  of  plays.  Subsequently  a  Utopian  effort  in 
prose,  The  Building  of  the  City  Beautiful  (1893)  was  added— a  rambling 
combination  of  tract  and  romance  which  advocated  the  abolition  of 
money  and  the  establishment  of  an  ideal  society  on  the  basis  of  brotherly 
love.  The  introduction  to  this  "Bear"  edition  and  the  numerous  autobio- 
graphical notes  which  it  contains  reveal  Miller's  nature  and  the  homespun 
qualities  of  his  mind  better  than  any  critical  commentary  written  by 
others. 

With  a  few  exceptions,  as  good  examples  of  his  verse  as  any  may  be 
found  in  Songs  of  the  Sierras,  for  which  he  culled,  revised,  and  compressed 
the  material  in  the  preceding  three  volumes.  Thereafter  he  improved  only 
slightly  in  discipline  but  not  at  all  in  inspiration.  A4ost  characteristic, 
once  again,  are  his  narratives,  in  strongly  accented  rhythms  borrowed 
from  Browning,  Swinburne,  and  others.  Their  mood,  and  something  of 
the  characterization,  are  Byronic.  Maids  of  Athens  flit  about  in  his  pages, 
whether  they  come  from  Oregon  or  Central  America.  Miller's  gift  for 
pronounced  rhythm  was  something  like  that  later  exhibited  by  Vachel 
Lindsay,  whose  histrionic  propensities  are  also  reminiscent  of  his.  The 
easily  managed  accents  of  the  metres  led  many  a  child  to  stand  up  on  the 
platform  and  reel  off  "Kit  Carson's  Ride"  or  "Columbus."  But  the  forms 
are  all  derivative.  He  could  scarcely  read  a  volume  of  verse  without  being 
influenced  by  it,  and  when  in  1871  the  Rossettis  gave  him  a  copy  of 
Leaves  of  Grass  he  promptly  borrowed  a  few  ideas  for  the  arrangement 


632  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  his  next  book;  and  Songs  of  the  Sim-Lands  has  a  section  called  "Olive 
Leaves,"  another  called  "Fallen  Leaves,"  and  ends  with  "Sierras  Adios." 

The  importance  of  Miller  lies  wholly  in  his  contribution  of  new  sub- 
jects from  regions  previously  unexploited  by  the  poets  of  the  time.  With 
Bret  Harte  he  pulled  the  curtains  and  the  Far  West  took  its  first  bows 
upon  the  literary  stage.  Whitman,  on  his  trip  to  Colorado  in  1879,  pon- 
dered the  problem  of  giving  expression  to  the  grandeurs  of  deserts  and 
mountains  and  wrote  in  Specimen  Days,  "I  sometimes  think  that  even  the 
ambition  of  my  friend  Joaquin  Miller  to  put  them  in,  and  illustrate  them, 
places  him  ahead  of  the  whole  crowd."  6  Like  Whitman,  he  glimpsed  the 
vastness  of  his  country,  and  in  a  number  of  poems  furnished  picturesque 
fragments  for  the  unwritten  epic  of  the  march  of  the  white  man  to  the 
Pacific.  Despite  his  inferior  verse  on  Europe  and  the  Holy  Land  and  the 
imitative  accents  of  his  measures,  Miller  was  more  of  an  American  poet 
than  most  of  his  contemporaries. 


Of  the  bards  of  the  South  the  chief  representative  after  the  death  of 
Timrod  was  Paul  Hamilton  Hayne  (1830-86),  a  mildly  reflective  nature 
poet  who  essayed  in  vain  to  attain  also  the  narrative  art  which  had  given 
Longfellow  and  Tennyson  such  a  popular  second  string  for  their  lyrical 
bows.  Ruined  by  the  Civil  War,  he  retired  to  Copse  Hill,  near  Augusta, 
Georgia,  and  vowed  that  he  would  remain  loyal  to  the  muse.  As  a  result, 
he  had  a  pinched  existence  as  a  writer  for  the  magazines,  occasionally  en- 
livened by  letters  from  authors  in  England  or  the  North  to  whom  he  had 
addressed  "fan  mail."  Legends  and  Lyrics  (1872)  is  considered  his  most 
distinguished  volume,  and  scattered  throughout  his  other  books  is  a  large 
quantity  of  verse  dealing  with  his  section.  In  spite  of  war  poems  and  his 
commemoration  of  the  mockingbird  and  the  pines  of  the  South,  he 
dwelt,  like  all  the  literary  men  isolated  in  an  agricultural  area,  in  a  cultured 
ghostland  haunted  by  foreign  legend  and  the  wraiths  of  the  genteel  poets. 
"England"  is  one  of  his  all-revealing  pieces.  He  imagines  that  country  as 
a  fairyland  of  "golden  histories  and  majestic  dreams,"  where  heroes  sleep 
near  temples  set  in  deep  ivy-twilight,  and  "ruins  hoar  and  high"  and 
"castled  homes"  provide  the  setting  for  minstrels  "Bound  to  my  life  by 
many  a  rhythmic  tie." 

The  South  fared  better  with  Sidney  Lanier  (1842-81),  who  also 
dreamed  of  a  never-seen  England  as  "the  highest  civilization  of  the 
world,"  :  but  whose  capacity  was  of  such  a  superior  order  that  he  ranks 
today  as  the  chief  poet  of  his  section  next  to  Poe.  With  his  health  under- 
mined by  tuberculosis  which  first  set  in  as  a  result  of  imprisonment  during 
thc  Civil  War,  he  returned  to  his  native  section,  tried  tutoring  and  clerk- 

'•  Complete  Prose  Works  (Boston,  1907),  p.  145. 
7  Centennial  Edition,  Works,  Vol.  10,  p.  378. 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  633 

ing,  and  at  length  settled  in  the  practice  of  law  in  his  father's  office. 
Pathetically,  he  wrote  to  a  Northern  friend  in  1866: 

Our  literary  life,  too,  is  a  lonely  and  somewhat  cheerless  one;  for  beyond  our 
father ...  we  have  not  been  able  to  find  a  single  individual  who  sympathized 
in  such  pursuits  enough  to  warrant  showing  him  our  little  productions.  So 
scarce  is  "general  cultivation"  here. . . .  I'm  thirsting  to  know  what  is  going 
on  in  the  great  Art- world  up  there:  you  have  no  idea  how  benighted  we  all 
are—8 

The  days  of  Reconstruction  which  followed  were  even  more  bitter  days 
of  wrath  in  the  Southland,  and  in  that  cultural  Sahara  Lanier  thirsted  for 
opportunity.  Encouraged  by  the  friendly  interest  in  his  superb  musical 
talents  exhibited  by  the  German  choral  societies  in  San  Antonio  where 
he  spent  a  winter,  he  resolved  to  attempt  a  career  as  a  musician  and  soon 
became  first  flutist  in  the  orchestra  of  the  Peabody  Institute  in  Baltimore. 
Thereafter  he  was  also  to  teach  and  to  write  for  the  magazines.  From  a 
Heidelberg  graduate  who  instructed  him  at  a  Presbyterian  college  at- 
tended before  the  war,  he  derived  a  lifelong  interest  in  German  literature, 
especially  the  work  of  Jean  Paul  Richter,  and  in  the  science  of  the  mid- 
century.  His  youthful  poems  displayed  the  influence  of  Poe  and  the 
English  Romantics,  and  the  conventional  authors  of  the  Victorian  era 
supplied  his  chief  literary  gods— Carlyle,  Tennyson,  the  Brownings,  and 
George  Eliot.  But  Lanier  was  also  fond  of  Chaucer  and  Lucretius,  and 
for  his  lectures  in  Baltimore  dipped  into  the  whole  corpus  of  early  Eng- 
lish literature,  even  the  Anglo-Saxon  poets.  That  his  taste  was  capable 
of  advancing  with  the  times  is  clearly  revealed  in  his  admiration  for 
Richard  Wagner,  as  well  as  for  Beethoven  and  Schumann.  Despite  his 
"farcical"  education,  he  became  the  most  cultivated  of  all  the  nineteenth- 
century  authors  of  the  South. 

The  battle  of  his  religious  temperament  and  orthodox  upbringing  with 
the  new  science  of  Darwin,  Spencer,  and  Huxley  left  him  moderately 
Unitarian  in  doctrine,  devoted  to  Christ  as  the  perfect  man,9  and  yet  an 
admirer  of  evolution.  A  cloud,  he  said,  may  be  evolved,  but  not  an  artist. 
For  him,  art  was  above  science,  just  as  love  was  above  art.  As  a  result  of 
these  essential  views,  Lanier's  writings  display  a  somewhat  confused 
picture  of  a  sturdy  idealist  harping  the  old  strings  of  love  and  faith— in- 
deed, sometimes,  especially  in  his  letters,  of  a  gushing  sentimentalist— and 
of  a  scientific  thinker  attempting  to  grapple  with  nature  on  more  than 
the  conventional  Romantic  plane.  His  most  moving  poems,  however,  are 
odes  traditionally  Wordsworthian  or  Emersonian,  like  "The  Marshes  of 
Glynn"   (1878)   and  "Sunrise"   (1882).  Irregular  in  the  length  of  lines, 

8  Centennial  Edition,  Works,  Vol.  7,  pp.  222-223. 

9  "A  Ballad  of  Trees  and  the  Master"  should  be  compared  with  "The  Crystal" 
and,  especially,  the  notes  for  "Credo  and  Other  Poems,"  Centennial  Edition,  Works, 
Vol.  1,  pp.  144,  136-139,  and  262  ff. 


634  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

vet  very  rhythmical,  they  are  lush  in  imagery  in  the  Pre-Raphaelite 
manner  but  vividly  suggest  the  fluttery  breeze  and  the  rippling  waters  of 
the  coastal  swamps  of  Georgia.  A  few  poems  on  Florida  also  are  memor- 
able in  connection  with  his  accomplishment  as  a  regional  poet. 

Lanier's  poetical  career  began  in  1874,  despite  the  fact  that  he  had  al- 
ready composed  half  of  the  small  body  of  his  verse.  Of  the  earlier  poems 
no  more  than  a  score  had  been  published— in  newspapers  and  insignificant 
magazines.  The  appearance  of  "Corn"  (1875)  m  Lippincotfs,  best  of  the 
Philadelphia  magazines,  first  attracted  attention,  for  it  touched  in  part 
on  the  plight  of  Southern  planters,  at  that  time  a  matter  of  considerable 
concern,  since  the  nation  was  aroused  by  the  economic  distress  of  a  de- 
pression. A  better  poem,  "The  Symphony"  (1875),  likewise  made  an 
appeal  by  mentioning  the  iniquities  of  commercialism,  a  topic  which 
Lanier  frequently  referred  to  in  his  verse  of  the  period.  Through  the  in- 
terest excited  by  these  two  timely  poems,  he  was  introduced  to  Bayard 
Taylor,  whose  friendly  offices  were  responsible  for  an  appointment  to 
write  the  words  for  a  cantata,  with  music  by  Dudley  Buck,  which  was 
performed  for  the  opening  of  the  Centennial  Exhibition.  The  resultant 
"Centennial  Meditation  of  Columbia"  (1876)  was  well  received  when 
sung  by  a  large  chorus  under  the  direction  of  Theodore  Thomas  but  was 
bitterly  attacked  when  published  without  the  accompanying  music.  The 
irregularity  of  "Corn"  and  "The  Symphony"  was  exceeded  in  this  work 
to  the  point  that  Lanier  was  charged  with  writing  like  "Walt  Whitman 
with  jim-jams,"  and  he  was  forced  to  explain  that  he  had  intended  to 
compose  a  symphonic  poem  which  would  "carry  or  create  its  own  musical 
accompaniment."  The  attacks  resulted  in  the  usual  newspaper  notoriety. 
A  longer  work,  in  various  metres,  "Psalm  of  the  West"  (1876),  likewise 
occasioned  publicity  when  it  appeared  as  the  leading  feature  of  the 
Centennial  number  of  Lippincotfs.  Neither  of  these  poems  ranks  high 
among  his  productions.  Between  1874  and  1876  he  wrote  some  twenty- 
five  in  all,  and  his  name  was  sufficiently  well  known  to  justify  a  collection, 
Poems  (1877),  containing,  however,  only  fourteen  pieces  which  had  ap- 
peared in  the  Philadelphia  magazine.  It  is  the  only  volume  of  his  verse 
that  was  published  during  his  lifetime. 

The  book  proved  unremunerative,  the  excitement  over  the  Centennial 
subsided,  and  the  poet  turned  to  hack  work  in  prose  to  add  to  his  income 
as  flutist  and  teacher.  His  last  years  present  a  bewilderingly  hectic  round 
of  labors,  ambitions,  and  plans,  along  with  periods  of  prostration  from 
disease.  Nevertheless,  he  turned  out  several  remarkable  poems,  in  addition 
to  the  splendid  hymns  of  the  marshes,  and  such  a  sheaf  of  fragments  and 
notes  for  others  that  one  is  led  to  conclude  that  Lanier's  death  at  the  age 
of  forty  robbed  America  of  one  of  its  potentially  great  poets.  His  widow 
edited  a  fairly  extensive  collection,  Poems  of  Sidney  Lanier  (1884),  which 
was  received  much  more  favorably  than  his  earlier  book,  and  some  of  his 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  635 

notes,  greatly  indebted  to  his  late  enthusiasm  for  Emerson,  were  subse- 
quently published  in  Poe?n  Outlines  (1908).  Certain  uncollected  pieces, 
along  with  a  few  new  poems  still  remaining  in  manuscript,  were  added 
in  the  first  volume  of  the  "Centennial  Edition"  of  his  works  (1945).10 

The  books  of  prose  published  during  his  life  or  prepared  for  publica- 
tion before  he  died  include  an  unimportant  youthful  novel,  Tiger-Lilies 
(1867),  a  pedestrian  guide  book  on  Florida,  The  Science  of  English  Verse 
(1880),  and  four  volumes  of  selections  from  Froissart,  Malory,  The 
Mabinogion,  and  Percy's  Reliques,  edited  for  the  use  of  children.  One  of 
these,  The  Boy's  King  Arthur  (1880),  has  proved  to  be  his  most  success- 
ful book.  The  most  important,  however,  is  The  Science  of  English  Verse, 
an  attempt  to  combine  in  a  scientific  study  of  the  fundamentals  of  English 
prosody  its  author's  interest  in  the  physics  of  sound,  his  musical  knowl- 
edge, and  his  late  poetical  practice.11  He  had  hoped,  in  vain,  that  its 
publication  would  lead  to  an  appointment  as  a  professor  in  The  Johns 
Hopkins  University,  and  was  greatly  chagrined  when  ignorant  reviewers 
commented  on  it  as  a  manual  on  how  to  write  verse.  To  specialists  in 
prosody  its  value  today  seems  slight,  but  it  is  of  interest,  nevertheless,  as 
an  example  of  the  incursion  of  scientific  method  into  the  realm  of  prosody 
and  as  a  forerunner  of  doctrines  basic  to  the  looseness  of  form  which  has 
more  recently  come  to  be  approved.  Some  of  his  lectures,  delivered,  in 
what  we  should  call  extension  courses,  at  Johns  Hopkins,  were  also  edited 
for  publication  after  his  death,  The  English  Novel  and  the  Principle  of 
Its  Development  (1883)  and  Shakspere  and  His  Forerunners  (1902). 
They,  too,  are  outmoded  by  subsequent  scholarship.  The  title  of  the 
former,  it  should  be  added,  is  very  misleading,  for  the  book  deals  more 
particularly  with  George  Eliot  than  with  the  history  of  the  English  novel, 
and  it  was  planned  to  be  a  study  of  the  treatment  of  personality  in  litera- 
ture from  the  time  of  ^Eschylus  to  the  late  nineteenth  century. 

In  both  verse  and  prose  Lanier,  of  course,  far  transcended  mere  sec- 
tionalism, but  the  fact  should  be  noted  that,  in  addition  to  his  poems 
which  have  a  setting  in  Georgia  or  Florida,  he  also  wrote  a  few  pieces 
in  the  dialect  of  the  Southern  poor  whites— called  "crackers"  in  Georgia— 
and,  with  his  brother,  contrived  a  couple  of  humorous  bits  in  authentic 
Negro  speech.  One  of  the  "cracker"  poems,  "Them  Ku  Klux,"  not  pub- 
lished until  1945,  is  a  sample  of  the  Southern  attempt  to  laugh  into  ab- 
surdity the  exaggerated  stories  of  the  atrocities  committed  by  the  Klan. 
These  few  dialect  pieces  indicate  that  Lanier  also  has  a  place  as  a  harbinger 
of  the  new  vogue  for  sectional  diction  which  gathered  momentum  during 

10  The  Introduction,  by  Charles  R.  Anderson,  is  the  best  history  of  Lanier's  career 
as  a  poet. 

1:lPaull  F.  Baum  discusses  its  origin  and  its  influence  on  subsequent  studies  of 
prosody  in  Centennial  Edition,  Works,  Vol.  2,  Intro.  For  its  influence  on  Hamlin 
Garland,  see  his  Roadside  Meetings  (1930),  Chap.  XII. 


636  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  sixties  and  spread  like  a  prairie  fire  with  the  local-color  movement 
of  the  last  quarter  of  the  century.  It  is  clear  that  he  anticipated  Irwin 
Russell  (1853-79),  who  has  sometimes  received  the  credit  for  first  ex- 
ploiting in  verse  the  speech  of  the  Southern  Negro.  Undoubtedly  Lanier 
was  encouraged  to  try  his  hand  at  dialect  because  of  the  popularity  at- 
tained in  1870  by  John  Hay  and  Bret  Harte. 


The  horde  of  dialect  writers  of  the  seventies  were  anticipated  by  men 
like  Lowell,  whose  second  group  of  Biglow  Papers,  published  during  the 
Civil  War,  gave  sanction  to  the  use  of  colloquial  speech  in  verse,  or 
Charles  G.  Leland  (1824- 1903),  whose  sensational  success  with  "Hans 
Breitmann's  Barty"  (1857)  was  continued  in  years  following  in  several 
series  of  Breitmann  poems,  couched  in  a  humorous  Germanic-English. 
Moreover,  the  minstrel  shows  had  long  since  employed  Negro  dialect  in 
their  songs,  and  many  a  Civil  War  humorist  featured  the  whimsical 
speech  of  the  Irish  raw  recruits.  Newspapers  had  for  years  welcomed 
humorous  dialect  whether  in  prose  or  verse,  and  everyone  was  singing 
songs  like  Stephen  Foster's  "Old  Black  Joe"  and  "Old  Folks  at  Home." 
While  nothing  new  to  American  verse,  the  popularity  of  dialect  was 
nevertheless  to  receive  a  tremendous  impetus  from  the  sudden  favor  be- 
stowed on  a  lingo  known  as  the  Pike. 

This  form  of  colloquial  speech,  like  other  so-called  American  dialects, 
has  no  real  philological  basis  in  the  way  that  the  Venetian  in  Italian  or 
the  Bavarian  in  German  has  an  existence,12  and  is  believed  to  represent 
an  adaptation  of  the  speech  of  the  numerous  Middle-Western  yokels  who 
journeyed  southwestward  to  the  mines  in  1849  and  afterwards.  The  name 
is  presumed  to  come  from  one  or  more  of  several  counties,  especially  in 
Missouri  and  Illinois,  of  the  Middle  States  which  honored  Zebulon  M. 
Pike,  an  early  explorer  of  the  region  south  and  west  of  St.  Louis  and  the 
discoverer  of  Pike's  Peak  in  Colorado.  References  to  the  picturesque, 
ruffianly  Pikes  of  California  appear  frequently  before  the  Civil  War,1 ! 
but  the  first  sensational  attention  was  drawn  to  their  dialect  in  1870  with 
the  publication  in  the  Neiv  York  Tribune  of  "Little  Breeches"  and  "Jim 
Bludso,"  written  by  John  Hay  (1838- 1905),  who  intended  to  represent 
the  speech  used  in  Pike  County,  Illinois.  The  next  year  a  whole  volume 
of  his  Pike  County  Ballads  was  widely  acclaimed  as  one  of  several  works 
of  homespun  humor  and  sentiment  which  came  before  the  public.  While 
Hay  compiled,  with  the  help  of  the  German-born  John  G.  Nicolay,  ten 
volumes  of  the  important  Abraham  Lincoln:  A  History  (1890)  and  wrote 

1 2  George  P.  Krapp,  "Literary  Dialects,"  The  English  Language  in  America,  2 
Vols.  (1925),  Vol.  1,  pp.  225-273. 

18  G.  R.  iMacMinn,  '"The  Gentleman  from  Pike'  in  Early  California,"  Amer.  Lit., 
Vol.  8  (May,  1936),  pp.  160-169. 


*, 


NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES  637 

several  other  books,  his  Pike  Ballads  now  constitute  his  chief  monument 
as  a  litterateur,  although  his  name  lives  in  the  history  of  politics  as  an  able 
ambassador  to  England  and  as  the  Secretary  of  State  responsible  for  the 
Open-Door  policy  in  China.  The  most  sensational  poem  in  Pike  dialect 
was  Bret  Harte's  "Plain  Language  from  Truthful  James"  (1870),  which 
appeared  in  the  San  Francisco  Overland  Monthly  and  promptly  took  the 
country  by  storm.  Everywhere  it  was  quoted,  reprinted  in  newspapers, 
and  broadcast  in  pamphlets  or  broadsides  as  "The  Heathen  Chinee."  Later, 
it  provided  the  basis  for  a  play  on  which  its  author  collaborated  with 
Mark  Twain. 

Soon  afterwards  an  avalanche  of  verse  in  various  dialects  was  loosed 
on  the  nation,  eagerly  sought  by  periodicals  of  all  sorts  but  especially  by 
Scribnefs  Monthly.  And  two  versifiers  soon  emerged  from  the  horde  as 
commercially  the  most  successful  new  poets  of  the  era.  Both  of  them  used 
the  colloquial  speech  of  the  Middle  West.  The  first  was  Will  Carleton 
(1845- 19 1 2),  a  Michigan  farm  boy  who  taught  country  school  and  after 
graduating  from  Hillsdale  College  became  a  reporter  in  Chicago  and 
Detroit.  In  1871,  a  strategic  year  for  dialect,  he  published  in  the  Toledo 
Blade  "Betsey  and  I  Are  Out,"  a  sentimental  monologue  on  a  divorce,  and 
when  the  great  Harper's  Weekly  gave  it  a  de  luxe  reprinting  it  came  into  a 
favor  rivalling  even  that  of  "The  Heathen  Chinee."  Still  more  cherished 
by  humbler  readers  was  the  subsequent  homespun  favorite  "Over  the 
Hill  to  the  Poor  House."  A  collection  of  Carleton's  popular  pieces,  Farm 
Ballads  (1873),  is  said  to  have  sold  forty  thousand  copies  in  a  few  months. 
And  soon  the  author's  gift  for  reciting  his  work  on  the  lecture  platform 
made  him  a  well-known  figure  in  Middle-Western  churches  and  "opera 
houses,"  and  even  led  to  a  European  tour.  A  cycle  of  volumes  of  farm 
verse  naturally  followed,  and  in  the  eighties  was  succeeded  by  a  group  of 
books  with  a  city  background,  for  the  dwellers  in  crowded  streets  also 
awaited  a  laureate,  and  in  1878  Carleton  had  taken  up  residence  in  Boston. 
These  ballads  of  farm  and  city  immediately  vied  with  the  work  of  Long- 
fellow and  Whittier  in  popularity,  and  eventually  surpassed  it  in  favor. 
But  Carleton's  poems  are  trash,  valuable  only  as  a  dreadful  reminder  of 
the  vulgarization  of  popular  taste. 

Much  better  in  quality,  but  still  showing  a  sad  decline  from  the  products 
of  the  old  guard  of  American  poets,  was  the  contribution  in  dialect  of 
James  Whitcomb  Riley  (1849- 19 16),  the  most  popular  of  all  Indiana 
writers.  Like  Carleton,  he  started  out  as  a  journalist  and  added  to  his  re- 
nown by  reciting  poems  on  the  stage,  but  he  never  forsook  his  native 
area.  With  his  first  volume,  The  Old  Swimmin'-Hole  and  'Leven  More 
Poems  (1883),  he  struck  the  popular  note  of  nostalgic  recollection  of  the 
pleasures  of  childhood  and  thereafter  made  the  speech  of  the  Hoosiers 
known  far  and  wide.  "When  the  Frost  is  on  the  Punkin"  and  "Little 
Orphan  Annie"  are  examples  of  a  still-cherished  sentiment  which,  along 


638  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

with  his  humor,  was  responsible  for  a  financial  return  larger  than  that 
enjoyed  from  verse  by  any  previous  American  poet.  In  1893  Riley  wrote 
to  Kipling,  "Am  making  not  only  'oodles'  of  money  off  my  books,  but 
twice  over  as  much  again  by  personally  reading  the  same  to  packed 
houses. "  Four  years  later  a  poem  which  he  wrote  on  Stevenson  brought 
such  a  large  check  from  Scribnefs  that  he  felt  moved  to  return  it  as  "too 
generous."  14  That  he  paved  the  way  for  the  "syndicated  syrup"  of  Edgar 
A.  Guest  is,  however,  one  of  his  misfortunes,  as  is  also  the  fact  that  he 
was  overly  fond  of  whiskey;  but  he  receives  the  credit  for  being  the  most 
accurate  reproducer  of  actual  speech  among  all  the  dialect  poets  of  the 
period. 

The  regional  authors  primarily  concerned  with  fiction,  like  Joel 
Chandler  Harris  and  Hamlin  Garland,  also  took  time  out  for  an  occasional 
venture  into  verse  in  dialect,  and  the  Virginia  novelist  Thomas  Nelson 
Page  first  ingratiated  himself  with  the  public  through  a  poem  in  Negro 
speech,  "Uncle  Gabe's  White  Folks"  (1877).  Of  course  such  verse  was 
regarded  at  the  time  as  somewhat  undignified,  but  it  provided  a  sure 
avenue  to  popularity.  And  it  became  a  minor,  but  vital,  element  in  a  vast 
movement  in  American  literature  which  exploited  sectional  speech,  char- 
acter, humor,  sentiment,  and  folklore  on  a  scale  previously  undreamed  of. 
The  materials  at  least  were  authentically  American. 

14  Letters  of  James  Whitcomb  Riley,  ed.  William  L.  Phelps  (Indianapolis  [1930]), 
pp.  183,  219. 


Chapter  32 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES 


The  spate  of  literary  works  employing  dialect  or  other  local  peculiarities 
which  burst  upon  the  country  about  1870  and  turned  into  a  broad  flood 
during  the  following  decades  is  known  as  the  local-color  movement. 
Its  importance  lies  primarily  in  the  field  of  fiction,  especially  of  the  short 
story.  The  term  "local-color"  is  rather  unsatisfying,  for  many  works 
generally  accepted  as  part  of  the  movement  emphasize  provincial  char- 
acter rather  than  setting,1  and  the  student  is  sometimes  at  a  loss  to  find 
in  them  what  passed  for  couleur  locale  with  Chateaubriand.  In  the  present 
century  the  word  "regional"  has  been  more  frequently  used;  the  early 
novels  of  Willa  Cather,  for  example,  are  referred  to  as  regional.  Some 
critics  have  undertaken  to  make  a  distinction  between  "regional"  and 
"local-color,"  maintaining  that  the  former  describes  such  works  dealing 
with  a  local  area  as  are  written  by  an  author  who  by  birth  and  long  ex- 
posure to  a  particular  environment  is  able  to  present  almost  automatically 
its  authentic  qualities.  The  local  colorist,  in  contrast,  deals  with  a  back- 
ground with  which  he  is  acquainted  only  as  a  visitor— as  one  who  sees 
from  the  outside.  But  the  terms  have  been,  and  still  are,  so  confused  that 
the  historian  is  under  no  necessity  to  accept  the  distinction.  It  has  been 
frequently  assumed,  also,  that  the  movement  is  of  a  realistic  nature;  but 
again  there  seems  to  be  no  historical  justification  for  the  critical  observa- 
tion, for  the  local  colorists  were  of  many  shades  of  opinion  in  regard  to 
literary  doctrine  or  the  treatment  of  fact,  and  in  general  they  were  more 
like  Dickens  than  like  Zola. 

That  the  use  of  local  areas  in  American  literature  should  have  been 
stimulated  in  the  period  following  the  Civil  War  was  a  natural  conse- 
quence of  several  factors  all  related  in  such  a  way  that  the  isolation  of 
any  one  of  them  is  likely  to  do  violence  to  history.  At  that  time  the 

1  Ben  Gray  Lumpkin,  "Diversity  in  the  Characters  Portrayed  in  Southern  Regional 
Short  Stories  of  the  Nineteenth  Century,"  abstract  of  dissertation,  The  United  States, 
1865-1900  (Fremont,  O.,  1945),  Vol.  3,  pp.  279-280. 

639 


64o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

nation  was  made  increasingly  aware  of  its  sections  by  the  spectacular 
extension  of  railroads  in  all  directions,  especially  in  the  West.  As  the 
population  poured  into  the  region  beyond  the  Mississippi  there  grew  up 
a  more  lively  feeling  of  local  patriotism  based  upon  economic  and  political 
conflict  with  the  East,  just  as,  in  a  more  pronounced  fashion,  there  was  a 
cleavage  betwixt  North  and  South,  exaggerated  by  the  war  and  by  the 
Reconstruction  policies  which  soon  forced  into  existence  a  "Solid  South." 
The  awareness  of  sections  during  the  seventies  can  hardly  be  understood 
today,  for  the  conflict  with  Spain  in  1898  and  the  two  World  Wars  have 
served  so  effectively  to  unite  the  country  in  opposition  to  a  common 
enemy  that  the  sectional  feeling  which  now  survives  is  pallid  in  compari- 
son. Moreover,  it  was  not  until  after  the  Civil  War  that  the  vastness  of 
American  geography  really  impressed  itself  upon  the  population  at  large; 
and  the  American  imagination,  failing  to  embrace  in  one  outlook  the 
huge  and  varied  nature  of  the  national  domain,  slipped  back  into  an  easier 
sectional  groove.  In  many  ways,  the  problem  besetting  those  who  con- 
templated writing  "the  great  American  novel"  was  like  that  perplexing 
the  author  today  who  would  gird  up  his  loins  to  present  effectively  a 
United  States  of  Europe.  From  the  broadest  literary  angle,  the  local-color 
movement  was,  nonetheless,  a  phase  of  a  tendency  manifest  throughout 
the  Occident  in  the  nineteenth  century,  and  still  persisting.  Fiction  was 
everywhere  seeking  new  materials  to  exploit;  and  local  areas  of  Europe, 
as  well  as  the  United  States,  were  ready  to  supply  them  in  the  richest 
abundance.  The  growth  of  cities  also  had  an  effect,  for  their  inhabitants, 
regimented  to  a  common  pattern,  exhibited  a  lively  interest  in  the  varied 
life  of  the  provinces.  The  stories  of  Bret  Harte  or  of  Hamlin  Garland  are 
thus  not  isolated  American  phenomena  but  have  a  place  in  the  larger 
movement  which  led  Balzac  to  write  local-color  novels  about  Brittany, 
Daudet  to  satirize  provincial  life,  Auerbach  and  many  another  German 
to  contrive  Dorfgeschichte,  and  Hardy  to  depict  his  Wessex.  In  verse 
Tennyson,  as  well  as  Lanier,  dipped  into  dialect,  and  Mistral  put  a  new 
premium  upon  the  manners  and  speech  of  Provence. 

The  tendency  to  use  the  local  regions  of  America  in  literature  was, 
of  course,  under  way  long  before  1870.  The  joyous  tribe  of  popular 
humorists  who  utilized  yokel  lingo  had  already  established  a  tradition. 
Furthermore,  New  England  especially  had  received  ample  treatment  at 
the  hands  of  Hawthorne,  Longfellow,  Lowell,  and  Whittier,  as  well  as  of 
minor  authors  like  Sylvester  Judd  (1813-53),  whose  didactic  novel 
Margaret  ( 1845)  was  thought  to  have  revealed  the  soul  of  the  region.  The 
most  successful  novelist  of  mid-century  America,  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher 
Stowe,  had  begun  publication  with  stories  laid  in  her  native  area,  and 
during  the  sixties  she  returned  to  that  background.  Taking  her  husband's 
reminiscences  of  his  early  days  in  Natick,  Massachusetts,  she  wove  them 
into  a  slow -paced,  episodical  novel,  Old  town  Folks  (1869),  which  proved 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  641 

to  be  one  of  her  greatest  successes  both  at  home  and  abroad  and  now 
ranks  next  to  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  as  her  most  celebrated  book.  It  is  filled 
with  the  background  of  a  New  England  characterized  in  the  first  chapter 
as  "a  sort  of  half  Hebrew  theocracy,  half  ultra-democratic  republic  of 
little  villages."  "More  to  me  than  a  story,"  she  wrote  to  a  publisher,  "it 
is  my  resume  of  the  whole  spirit  and  body  of  New  England."  2  The 
novel  is  one  of  the  distinctive  examples  of  the  Dorfgeschichte  of  an  age 
of  sentiment— now  outmoded  in  style  and  in  psychological  naivete.  The 
same  sort  of  material  she  continued  to  use  in  a  series  of  short  tales  pub- 
lished as  Sam  hawson's  Oldtown  Fireside  Stories  (1872),  a  title  capitalizing 
the  rustic  yarn-spinner  whose  humor  and  dialect  had  made  him  a  house- 
hold favorite  to  the  thousands  who  had  read  the  earlier  book.  In  several 
other  works  Mrs.  Stowe  resuscitated  the  prerailroad  era  of  her  section— 
the  best  is  Fogamic  People  (1878),  based  in  part  on  her  own  youth  in 
Litchfield,  Connecticut— but  the  weird  or  humorous  tales  derived  from 
her  husband  are  better.  At  the  same  time  that  she  was  working  on  Old- 
town  Folks,  her  brother,  outstanding  pulpit  orator  of  the  day,  Henry 
Ward  Beecher  (1813-87),  was  likewise  laboring  on  a  regional  novel, 
Norwood:  or,  Village  Life  in  New  England  (1867),  widely  appreciated 
for  the  moral  and  religious  doctrines  which  almost  smother  the  authentic 
background  and  which  today  make  the  book  unreadable.  Rose  Terry 
Cooke  (1827-92)  was  another  author  publishing  genre  tales  during  the 
sixties  and  laying  the  groundwork  for  her  later  reputation  as  a  portrayer 
of  factory  towns  and  farm  villages  of  New  England.  In  her  earliest  stories 
for  The  Atlantic  Monthly  she  combined  "a  somewhat  saccharine  morality 
with  an  amazing  streak  of  realism"  3  which  is  well  exhibited  in  her  later 
collections,  such  as  Somebody's  Neighbors  (1881).  Unlike  Mrs.  Stowe's, 
her  intention  at  least  was  realistic,  and  it  was  she  who  set  the  pattern  for 
Mary  Wilkins  Freeman  and  Sarah  Orne  Jewett,  who  sought  to  draw 
with  a  more  scrupulous  accuracy  than  that  of  the  author  of  Oldtown 
Folks  the  humdrum  lives  of  the  villagers  of  the  Northeast. 


The  Far  West,  on  the  other  hand,  was  a  comparatively  fallow  field, 
although  to  everyone  it  was  the  most  fascinating  of  all  the  sections.  Army 
officers  and  explorers  like  Fremont  had  publicized  its  snow-clad  rocky 
peaks  and  burning  alkali  flats,  agents  of  industry  had  reported  on  its 
mineral  deposits,  but  tremendous  areas  were  still  unknown.  Not  until 
1870  did  an  expedition  to  the  Yellowstone  country  reveal  to  a  gaping 
public  the  astounding  corroboration  of  the  fantastic  tales  of  geysers  and 

2  Forrest  Wilson,  Crusader  in  Crinoline:  The  Life  of  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  (Phila- 
delphia [1941]),  p.  530. 

3  Babette  M.  Levy,  "Mutations  in  New  England  Local  Color,"  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  19  (Sept.  1946),  p.  346. 


642  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

hot  springs  told  by  trappers  like  Jim  Bridger— and,  indeed,  not  until  after 
the  First  World  War  was  the  discovery  made  that  the  Snake  River  in  Idaho 
has  a  deeper  gorge  than  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado.  Miracles 
were  expected  of  the  West,  and  the  eyes  of  the  world  had  been  on  Cali- 
fornia since  the  Gold  Rush  of  1849.  Fifteen  years  later,  reports  on  the 
progress  of  the  first  railroad  to  link  the  Pacific  coast  with  the  Mississippi 
Valley  were  eagerly  scanned  in  the  newspapers,  and  chromo-makers  and 
photographers  pictured  the  herds  of  bison  or  the  bands  of  well-armed 
redskins  disconcerting  the  tracklayers  as  they  drove  their  spikes.  The 
Indians  and  the  outlaws  of  the  region  had,  of  course,  long  before  provided 
material  for  the  subliterary  folk  who  followed  the  frontier  in  the  wake  of 
Fenimore  Cooper  or  Mayne  Reid  and  wrote  sensational  adventure  nar- 
ratives for  the  dime  novels.  Occasionally  a  novelist  like  Theodore 
Winthrop  had  used  West  Coast  materials,  or  a  burlesquer  like  George 
Horatio  Derby  (1823-61)  had  published  a  volume  or  two  of  California 
anecdotes.  More  important  than  Derby's  humorous  work  was  the  attempt 
by  Samuel  Bowles  (1826-78),  editor  of  the  Springfield,  Massachusetts,  Re- 
publican, to  give  Eastern  readers  a  sober  description  of  the  nature,  re- 
sources, and  social  and  economic  development  of  the  section.  Bowles's 
Our  New  West  (1869)  is  based  upon  two  previous  reports  of  his  travels 
to  the  Pacific  states  and  to  Colorado,  Across  the  Continent  (1865)  and 
The  Switzerland  of  America  (1869).  His  books  were  good  newspaper 
journalism,  accurate  in  description  but  wanting  in  analytical  power.  Ex- 
cept for  Washington  Irving,  Richard  H.  Dana,  and  Francis  Parkman,  with 
their  accounts  of  exploration  or  travel,  there  had  been  no  author  of  con- 
sequence as  a  belles-lettrist  to  deal  with  the  Far  West  until  Francis  Brett 
Harte  (1836- 1902)  leaped  into  prominence  with  a  series  of  California 
tales,  collected  in  The  Luck  of  Roaring  Camp  and  Other  Sketches  (1870). 
His  success  was  as  spectacular  as  it  was  sudden,  and  his  appeal  was  at  the 
outset  to  the  literary  intelligentsia.  He  seemed  at  one  and  the  same  time 
a  humorist  of  surpassing  ability,  a  master  of  Dickensian  pathos,  and  a 
stylist  comparable  to  Thackeray.  His  material  was  as  fresh  as  a  Seabreeze 
to  many  a  cultivated  reader  in  the  East  and  in  England  who  knew  no 
more  about  the  Far  West  than  that  it  was  a  region  of  scenic  splendors 
and  desperadoes.  The  best  proof  of  his  popularity  is  afforded  by  the  fact 
that  the  proprietors  of  The  Atlantic  in  1871  offered  him  ten  thousand 
dollars  for  twelve  short  contributions,  whereas  the  great  Mrs.  Stowe 
herself  had  been  tempted  with  a  mere  six  thousand  for  the  lengthy  Old- 
town  Folks. 

Born  in  Albany,  Harte  grew  up  as  a  boy  in  Brooklyn  and  New  York 
City  and  so  was  far  removed  from  any  provincial  atmosphere.  Through- 
out his  life  he  dressed  as  a  dandy  and  felt  at  home  in  a  gentlemen's  club. 
His  formal  education,  however,  was  no  more  than  Whitman's.  But  books 
were  his  playmates,  and  at  the  age  of  eleven  he  published  his  first  poem. 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  643 

That  he  was  a  keen  critic  of  the  authors  of  the  day  is  well  shown  in  his 
excellent  parodies  of  Poe  and  Whittier,  and,  above  all,  in  the  first  series 
of  his  Condensed  Novels  (1867),  in  which  he  amusingly  mocked  the 
mannerisms  of  Cooper,  Dickens,  Dumas,  Disraeli,  and  others.  Migration 
to  California  in  1854  brought  on  a  variety  of  occupations  as  teacher, 
express  messenger,  and  drugstore  clerk,  but  his  progress  in  letters  was 
the  usual  one  of  typesetter,  contributor,  editor.  If  he  saw  anything  at 
firsthand  of  the  mining  camps,  it  must  have  been  for  a  few  months  prior 
to  1855.4  He  was  so  little  of  a  Westerner  that  in  a  small-town  weekly  he 
protested  against  the  massacre  of  an  Indian  village,  and  the  resultant 
animosity  seems  to  have  prompted  his  retirement  in  i860  to  San  Francisco, 
then  a  city  of  56,000  people.  The  publication  of  bits  of  prose  and  verse 
in  Eastern  magazines,  including  The  Atlantic,  advanced  his  status  as  a 
journalist,  and  during  the  Civil  War  his  pro-Union  propaganda  in  verse 
caused  him  to  be  regarded  as  the  chief  literary  personage  of  the  city. 
Mark  Twain  was  glad  to  receive  advice  from  him  in  regard  to  the  proper 
style  of  writing.  Other  than  his  burlesques  of  the  novelists,  the  chief  of 
his  earlier  efforts  in  prose  dealt  with  the  old  Spanish  culture  of  California, 
which  he  treated  in  the  manner  of  Washington  Irving.  In  1867,  in  addi- 
tion to  Condensed  Novels,  he  published  The  Lost  Galleon  and  Other 
Tales,  a  collection  of  unimposing  verse.  He  had  occasionally  used  the 
Pike  dialect  for  his  newspaper  writing  and  in  i860  prefigured  his  later 
tales  with  "The  Work  on  Red  Mountain,"  a  narrative  of  the  mining 
camps  later  expanded  and  revised  as  "M'liss." 

The  appearance  in  1868  of  "The  Luck  of  Roaring  Camp"  in  The  Over- 
land Monthly,  of  which  he  was  editor,  brought  him  before  the  public  as 
a  new  literary  genius,  and  subsequent  short  stories  in  the  same  manner, 
plus  "Plain  Language  from  Truthful  James,"  quickly  established  him  as 
a  humorist  of  outstanding  rank.  It  was  the  old  formula,  the  formula  of 
Irving  and  Dickens,  that  turned  the  trick— humor  plus  pathos.  But  there 
was  also  the  added  attraction  of  a  local  color  peculiarly  his  own.  As  de- 
mands for  his  work  came  from  the  East  and  word  was  brought  of  the 
enthusiastic  response  to  his  tales  pirated  in  England,  Harte  in  1871  turned 
his  back  on  California  and  proceeded  to  the  Atlantic  coast.  There  he 
was  warmly  received  but  failed  to  fulfil  the  easy  terms  of  his  contract 
with  the  publishers  of  The  Atlantic.  He  lectured  here  and  there,  tried  to 
mint  his  reputation  by  writing  plays,  and,  as  a  result  of  diminishing  en- 
thusiasm among  his  countrymen,  accepted  a  diplomatic  post  in  Germany- 
later  in  Glasgow.  With  the  advent  in  1885  of  a  Democratic  administration 
in  Washington,  he  left  his  consulship,  settled  in  London,  and  never  re- 
turned to  his  own  country.  In  time  he  became  one  of  the  mainstays  sup- 
plying fiction  for  a  variety  of  British  periodicals  and  tried  again  to  write 
successful  plays.  His  voluminous  stories  were  sometimes  set  outside  of 

4  George  R.  Stewart,  Jr.,  Bret  Harte:  Argonaut  and  Exile  (193 1) ,  p.  43. 


644  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

California,  but  the  demand  was  strong  for  new  tales  in  his  earlier  vein, 
and  the  British  critics  usually  agreed  that  they  were  his  best.  While  he 
averaged  more  than  one  small  volume  of  short  stories  per  year,  gathered 
up  from  the  journals  and  published  also  in  the  United  States,  primarily  his 
income  was  derived  from  the  magazines. 

A  large  number  of  his  tales  were  lengthy,  in  accordance  with  the  de- 
mand for  narratives  to  be  published  in  three  or  four  installments.  The 
only  full-length  novel  that  he  wrote  is  Gabriel  Conroy  (1876),  first 
serialized  in  Scribner's  Monthly.  It  proves  his  inability  to  handle  the 
novel  form  and,  in  addition  to  structural  deficiency,  displays  the  haste 
in  which  it  was  written.  It  is,  nevertheless,  historically  important  as  one 
of  the  most  popular  earlv  Western  novels  to  come  to  the  attention  of 
the  sophisticated  reader.  Some  of  its  themes,  like  the  substance  of  his 
short  stories,  helped  to  lay  the  foundation  for  the  unlimited  profusion  of 
"Western"  tales,  plays,  and  movies  which  have  since  become  one  of  the 
most  important  "matters  of  romance"  contributed  by  the  United  States 
for  the  world's  entertainment.  A  party  of  travellers  lost  in  the  snows  of 
the  Sierras,  a  cattle  stampede,  an  earthquake,  a  frontier  murder  trial,  the 
discovery  of  a  silver  mine— such  typical  "Western"  material  is  matched 
by  an  array  of  entertaining  characters,  some  of  them  used  again  and  again 
in  the  other  Harte  tales-like  Jack  Hamlin,  gallant  gambler  who  loves 
the  ladies  and  all  young  children;  Colonel  Starbottle,  Southern  lawyer 
with  a  fondness  for  duelling  and  flowery  speech,  and  Yuba  Bill,  the 
original  of  the  genre  of  picturesque  California  stage  drivers.  Gabriel,  the 
hero,  is  a  genial  simpleton  of  gigantic  stature  who  takes  care  of  baby 
sister  in  true  Dickensian  fashion.  It  is  easy  to  laugh  at  the  plot  today,  but 
in  1876  the  whole  background  seemed  brilliantly  novel,  and  the  book 
was  promptly  translated  into  German  and  Swedish. 

Harte's  verse  is  largely  narrative,  and  a  fair  portion  of  it  was  intended 
to  profit  by  the  popularity  of  Western  themes.  There  are  a  few  poems 
in  the  Pike  dialect,  some  of  them  inspired  by  the  success  of  the  "Heathen 
Chinee"  verses,  but  his  parodies  strike  the  reader  today  as  better  humor. 
Harte's  claim  upon  our  attention,  however,  rests  not  upon  his  verse  but 
upon  his  short  stories  dealing  with  the  California  which  he  romanticized 
so  successfully  in  the  early  seventies  and  to  which  he  returned  long  after 
he  had  forgotten  that  the  Western  poppy  is  orange.  The  plots  are  ex- 
citing and  climaxes  are  readily  whipped  up,  the  motivation  is  often  shaky, 
the  characters  are  caricatures,  the  settings  are  histrionic;  yet  their  humor 
and  sometimes  even  their  pathos  have  a  punch  left  in  them.  The  themes 
may  often  remind  one  of  those  which  perennially  crop  up  in  the  Saturday- 
night  movies  shown  in  the  smaller  theatres,  but  there  is  little  of  the  sloppy 
writing  that  embarrasses  the  work  of  so  many  of  his  contemporaries;  and 
his  vitality,  as  well  as  his  irony  and  wit,  redeems  his  better  tales  from 
being  bathetic  claptrap.  Even  in  his  later  days,  when  he  accepted  any 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  645 

contract  made  by  his  literary  agent,  he  occasionally  ground  out  some 
neat  tales,  like  "The  Convalescence  of  Jack  Hamlin"  or  "A  Ward  of 
Colonel  Starbottle."  Despite  the  caricatures— or  maybe  because  of  them— 
one  remembers  certain  of  his  characters  better  than  those  of  any  American 
short-story  writer  of  the  period  excepting  Henry  James,  and  one  can 
salvage  from  his  many  volumes  an  excellent  collection  of  pleasantly  read- 
able and  mildly  humorous  stories.  Since  his  death  he  has  been  in  England 
the  most  frequently  published  of  all  our  late  nineteenth-century  writers 
of  the  short  story.  Moreover,  his  influence  upon  the  genre  has  been 
greater  than  that  of  any  American  since  Washington  Irving.5  Look  at 
the  beginnings  of  a  few  of  his  tales,  and  then  observe  how  Ambrose 
Bierce  and  O.  Henry  started  theirs.  A  glance  at  Hamlin  Garland's  nov- 
elette A  Little  Norsk  (1892)  will  likewise  reveal  the  continuing  effect 
of  "The  Luck  of  Roaring  Camp."  Indeed,  the  whole  local-color  move- 
ment of  the  seventies  and  eighties  was  given  the  heartiest  encouragement 
by  Harte's  success,  and  his  practice  seems  to  have  influenced  a  host  of 
fiction  writers,  including,  far  off  in  India,  a  young  journalist  named 
Rudyard  Kipling.6 

At  the  time  that  Harte  was  at  the  height  of  his  success,  Mark  Twain 
also  was  profiting  by  the  widespread  interest  in  the  Far  West,  and  his 
first  story  of  consequence,  "The  Celebrated  Jumping  Frog  of  Calaveras 
County,"  actually  predated  "The  Luck  of  Roaring  Camp,"  having  first 
appeared  in  the  New  York  Saturday  Press  in  1865.  More  vigorous  in  its 
exaggeration  of  Western  moods  is  Roughing  It  (1872),  an  autobiographi- 
cal narrative  charged  with  tall  tales,  sharp  descriptions,  and  character 
sketches,  which  recounts  Clemens's  own  travels  in  the  sixties  from  St. 
Louis  to  Utah,  California,  and  Hawaii.  But,  splendid  as  these  works  are 
as  humor,  they  are  surpassed  in  the  depiction  of  sectional  life  and  manners 
by  Mark  Twain's  romances  laid  along  the  Mississippi  River.  Late  in  the 
century,  Hamlin  Garland  also  turned  to  the  remoter  West  as  the  back- 
ground for  his  fiction,  but  his  most  impressive  work,  likewise,  was  con- 
cerned with  the  Middle  West.  More  of  a  realist  than  either  Harte  or 
Clemens  in  portraying  the  life  of  the  mining  areas  was  Mary  Hallock 
Foote  (1847-1938),  who  married  a  civil  engineer  and  spent  much  of  her 
later  life  in  Colorado,  Idaho,  and  California.  Her  first  novel,  The  Led- 
Horse  Claim  (1883),  written  in  the  manner  of  Ho  wells,  furnishes  an  au- 
thentic background  of  the  Colorado  mining  town  but  at  the  end  turns 

5  Fred  Lewis  Pattee,  The  Development  of  the  American  Short  Story  (1923),  pp. 
239-240.  One  of  the  better  recent  collections  is  The  Best  Short  Stories  of  Bret  Harte, 
ed.  Robert  N.  Linscott  ([1947]). 

6  Professor  Arthur  H.  Quinn  has  pointed  out  the  influence  of  Harte  upon  a 
considerable  number  of  Americans,  such  as  Constance  Woolson,  F.  Hopkinson  Smith, 
Mary  Murfree,  Thomas  Janvier,  James  Lane  Allen,  Owen  Wister,  Jack  London, 
Booth  Tarkington,  and  Edna  Ferber  (American  Fiction  [1936],  pp.  333,  367,  368, 
405,473,505,541,598,607). 


646  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

into  an  insipid  love  story— a  fault  common  to  her  several  other  novels 
and  to  most  of  the  short  stories  which  she  wrote.  Her  merits  are  perhaps 
best  seen  in  a  novel  entitled  John  Bodeivin's  Testimony  (1886).  In  the 
history  of  fiction  dealing  with  the  Far  West  she  may  claim  attention  as 
the  first  realist  of  the  section,  who  came  at  a  time  when  the  region  was 
still  in  a  state  of  fermentation  and  subject  to  the  humorous  exploitation 
which  Harte  and  Clemens  had  done  so  much  to  popularize.  Her  West 
is  a  needed  antidote;  but  her  literary  prowess  now  seems  slight.7 


The  Middle  West  had  received  treatment  by  many  minor  authors  be- 
fore the  time  of  the  Civil  War.8  For  example,  James  Hall  (1793- 1868)  had 
described  the  border  warfare  of  the  Ohio  country  in  a  number  of 
sketches;  Mrs.  Caroline  Stansbury  Kirkland  (1801-64)  had  delineated  the 
social  manners  of  the  Michigan  settlements;  and  Alice  Cary  (1820-71), 
though  better  known  as  a  poet,  had  also  produced  a  few  volumes  of 
prose  concerned  with  the  domestic  life  of  mid-century  Ohio.  But  there  was 
no  widely-read  novel  laid  in  the  section  until  the  appearance  in  187 1  of 
The  Hoosier  School-Master,  which  its  author,  Edward  Eggleston  ( 1837- 
1902),  claimed  to  be  the  "file-leader  of  the  procession  of  American  dialect 
novels."  9  Certainly  that  homespun  tale,  abounding  in  humor  and  senti- 
ment, was  one  of  the  most  important  local-color  novels  of  the  post-bellum 
period,  and  it  continued  to  be  popular  until  a  radical  change  in  taste  in 
the  present  century  toppled  it  from  its  pinnacle  as  a  minor  classic. 

Before  he  became  a  novelist,  Eggleston  had  been  not  only  a  circuit 
rider  and  small-town  Methodist  parson  but  a  book  agent  in  Iowa,  a  sales- 
man of  life  insurance  in  Minnesota,  and,  for  a  short  while,  even  a  show- 
man with  a  grand  stereopticon.  In  1864  he  began  writing  humorous 
letters  for  the  St.  Paul  press  but  soon  moved  to  Chicago  as  editor  of  The 
Sunday  School  Teacher  and  contributor  of  a  weekly  column  to  the 
Evening  Journal.  In  1870,  when  he  left  Illinois  to  settle  in  New  York  as 
editor  of  one  of  the  most  popular  religious  weeklies  of  the  day,  The 
Independent,  he  was  known  merely  as  an  expert  on  Sunday-school  litera- 
ture. His  first  trial  with  fiction  for  adults  consisted  of  five  short  stories 
contributed  to  the  early  numbers  of  Scribnefs  Monthly.  The  next  year, 
he  took  charge  of  Hearth  and  Home,  in  which  he  serialized  his  famous 
novel,  originally  planned  as  a  three-installment  tale  but  rushed  into  longer 

:  The  introduction  to  her  volume  The  Last  Assembly  Ball  and  The  Fate  of  a  Voice 
(Boston  and  New  York,  1889)  is  a  brief  commentary  on  the  difficulties  of  presenting 
the  social  manners  of  the  West.  For  the  varying  attitudes  toward  both  the  Middle 
■and  Far  West,  see  Henry  N.  Smith,  Virgin  Land  (1950). 

s  Ralph  L.  Rusk,  The  Literature  of  the  Middle  Western  Frontier,  2  Vols.  (1924); 
•and  Dorothy  A.  Dondorc,  The  Prairie  and  the  Making  of  Middle  America  (Cedar 
Rapids,  la.,  1926). 

9  William  P.  Randcl,  Edivard  Eggleston:  Author  of  The  Hoosier  School-Master 
(1946),  p.  125. 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  647 

form  to  satisfy  the  demands  of  readers.  The  Hoosier  School-Master  de- 
scribes life  in  the  forties,  and  its  plot  is  based  upon  its  author's  memories 
of  Decatur  County,  Indiana,  as  well  as  his  brother's  experiences  as  a 
school  teacher.  Its  humorous  scenes,  sentimental  touches,  and  faithfulness 
to  a  life  familiar  to  a  farm-bred  generation  proved  so  fascinating  that 
in  book  form  it  sold  ten  thousand  copies  in  six  months.  The  inevitable 
result  was  that  Eggleston  followed  the  market  with  more  serial  novels: 
The  End  of  the  World  (1872),  a  romantic  narrative  involving  a  religious 
sect  called  Millerites;  The  Mystery  of  Metropolisville  (1873),  a  combined 
mystery  and  account  of  a  Minnesota  boom  town;  and,  better  in  structure 
than  any  of  the  preceding  works,  The  Circuit  Rider  (1874),  for  which 
he  used  the  autobiography  of  an  itinerant  preacher  of  a  generation  prior 
to  his  own.  Its  purpose,  he  observed,  was  to  show  the  impact  of  Method- 
ism upon  a  primitive  scene.  After  completing  this  book  Eggleston  de- 
cided to  quit  journalism  and  novel  writing  and  became  the  pastor  of  a 
Brooklyn  church,  which,  at  his  insistence,  was  to  be  creedless.  But  his 
heterodox  views— long  since  progressed  beyond  the  agonizing  piety  of  his 
youth— and  his  efforts  to  adapt  religion  to  social  welfare  struck  his  con- 
gregation as  too  liberal,  and  he  soon  willingly  resigned,  to  become  a 
free-lance  journalist.  Three  other  novels  came  from  his  pen,  all  serialized 
in  Scribner's  or  The  Century:  Roxy  (1878),  his  best  work,  betraying  the 
influence  of  George  Eliot;  The  Gray  sons  (1888);  and  The  Faith  Doctor 
(1891).  This  last  is  the  only  one  of  the  lot  which  does  not  have  a  setting 
in  the  Adiddle  West;  it  charts,  accurately,  the  background  of  New  York 
City  but  centers  interest  on  faith-healing  and  a  love  story.  In  his  later 
years  he  wrote  several  books  dealing  with  American  history,  especially 
The  Beginners  of  a  Nation  (1896),  which  gave  him  sufficient  standing  as 
a  social  historian  to  cause  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  American 
Historical  Association. 

Eggleston's  interest  in  local  color  was  stimulated  by  Lowell,  who  urged 
him  to  study  the  dialect  of  the  Hoosiers,  and  by  the  sensational  success 
of  Harte  and  Hay,  as  well  as  other  humorists  of  the  time.  He  even  com- 
posed a  tall  tale  about  a  bear  addicted  to  hard  cider,  told  in  the  manner 
of  the  so-called  frontier  humorists,  "Dan  Plue's  Story"  (1872).  His 
earliest  enthusiasm  for  books  came  as  a  result  of  reading  Washington 
Irving,  and  his  choice  of  common  and  familiar  materials  for  his  first  novel 
was  corroborated  by  perusal  of  a  translation  of  Taine's  Philosophy  of  Art 
in  the  Netherlands.10  Eggleston's  influence  upon  others  in  turn  is  a  matter 
of  consequence,  for  the  success  of  his  novels,  especially  of  the  first,  un- 
doubtedly fortified  the  work  of  Bret  Harte  in  encouraging  authors  of  the 
seventies  and  eighties  to  look  in  their  own  backyards  and  write.  As  late 
as  1 89 1,  when  David  Ross  Locke  wrote  The  Demagogue ,  a  devastating 
exposure  of  Ohio  politics,  the  erstwhile  humorist  troweled  into  his  first 

10  Randel,  Eggleston,  pp.  26,  123. 


648  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

pages  a  deal  of  local  color,  including  an  Egglestonian  spelling-bee,  for  at 
that  time  The  Hoosier  School-Master  seemed  established  beyond  cavil 
not  only  bv  frequent  reprintings  at  home  and  in  England  but  by  transla- 
tions into  Danish,  French,  German,  and  Swedish.  No  subsequent  tale  of 
the  Middle  West  written  during  the  period  attained  such  popularity, 
though  many  were  published. 

A  certain  interest  has  attached  itself  to  a  rather  depressing  novel  of 
Kansas,  The  Story  of  a  Country  Town  (1883),  by  Edgar  Watson  Howe 
(1853-1937).  In  its  pessimism,  so  unusual  during  the  eighties  as  to  seem 
ridiculous  to  contemporary  critics,  and  in  its  conscious  bitterness,  it  has 
more  lately  been  praised  as  a  remarkable  foreshadowing  of  the  naturalistic 
revolt  from  the  village  which  characterized  the  regional  fiction  of  the 
nineteen-twenties.  But  its  stilted  dialogue  and  frequently  unmotivated 
melodrama  are  hard  to  swallow.  In  several  succeeding  novels  Howe  never 
developed  into  as  competent  a  novelist  as  did  Eggleston  in  Roxy,  and  his 
local  color  seems  a  mere  veneer  for  melodrama.  More  truthful  in  the 
depiction  of  regional  manners  are  two  stories  by  Joseph  Kirkland  (1830- 
94),  a  Chicago  lawyer  who  described  life  in  the  early  settlements  of 
Illinois  and  chose  Thomas  Hardy  as  a  model.  Znry  (1887)  and  its  sequel, 
The  McVeys  (1888),  convey  reality  in  a  fashion  unusual  for  the  period, 
but  their  structure  is  amateurish  and  their  sentimentalism  at  times  hollow. 
Even  worse  in  construction  is  a  third  novel  by  Kirkland,  The  Captain  of 
Company  K  (1891),  in  which,  however,  there  are  true  details  of  the  be- 
havior of  raw  recruits  under  fire  and  of  the  reaction  in  Chicago  at  the 
outbreak  of  the  Civil  War.  Kirkland's  efforts  to  tell  the  truth,  though 
not  all  the  truth,  supplied  encouragement  to  the  most  important  of  the 
realistic  depicters  of  the  Middle  West  during  the  eighties,  namely,  Han- 
nibal Hamlin  Garland  (i860- 1940). 

A  farm  boy  who  knew  only  too  well  how  the  men  of  Wisconsin  and 
Iowa  thrust  their  filthy  feet  into  manure-covered  boots  to  rush  into  the 
morning's  work,  Garland  prepared  himself  to  teach  in  the  prairie  schools. 
In  the  process  he  became  a  follower  of  Taine's  critical  doctrines  and, 
with  the  economic  plight  of  his  own  family  depressing  his  spirits,  eagerly 
embraced  the  ideas  of  Henrv  George  and  the  Populist  Party.  When  in 
1884  he  went  to  Boston  to  study  and  try  to  write,  he  was  exposed  to  the 
full  blast  of  the  "development  theory,"  as  it  was  called,  the  evolutionary 
views  of  Darwin,  and,  especially,  of  Herbert  Spencer.  Leaves  of  Grass,  he 
revealed  later,  also  helped  to  change  the  world  for  him: 

Under  the  influence  of  Spencer  I  traced  a  parallel  development  of  the  Arts 
and  found  a  measure  of  scientific  peace.  Under  the  inspiration  of  Whitman  I 
pondered  the  significance  of  democracy  and  caught  some  part  of  its  spiritual 
import.  With  Henry  George  as  guide,  I  discovered  the  main  cause  of  poverty 
and  suffering  in  the  world.  .  .  .1] 

1 '  A  Son  of  the  Middle  Border  (1927),  p.  331. 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  649 

In  literary  doctrine  he  was  "sadly  'mixed'  ":  Hawthorne's  hold  upon  him 
was  profound,  but  Harte  and  Miller  and  Whitman  were  more  to  his 
liking  than  either  Poe  or  Emerson.  In  one  of  his  youthful  lectures  he 
spoke  contemptuously  of  Howells  and  the  "so-called  realists."  Whitman, 
apparently,  turned  the  balance,  and  when  in  1887  Garland  reviewed 
Howells's  The  Minister's  Charge  for  the  Boston  Transcript  he  became  a 
"veritist"— his  name  for  a  Howellsian  realist.  His  newer  views  he  ultimately 
set  forth  in  a  collection  of  rather  shallow  critical  essays,  Crumbling  Idols 
(1894),  a  volume  which  indicates  the  strong  influence  exerted  upon  him 
by  the  local  colorists.  Categorically,  he  declared  that  "dialect  is  the  life 
of  a  language,  precisely  as  the  common  people  of  the  nation  form  the 
sustaining  power  of  its  social  life  and  art."  12 

Garland  first  began  to  express  his  ideas  about  reforming  society  and 
literature  in  lectures  and  essays,  but  when  he  revisited  his  father's  farm 
he  saw  that  the  details  of  the  rural  life  of  his  own  Middle  Border  awaited 
treatment  by  an  author  who  himself  had  guided  the  plow.  Fiction  soon 
took  over  as  his  chief  medium,  though  some  of  his  early  novels  were  first 
planned  as  dramas.  Of  the  several  novels  of  his  early  period  most  are 
vitiated  by  inexperience  in  construction,  by  a  lack  of  distinction  in  dic- 
tion, and  by  propaganda  for  the  Populist  Party  and  the  "single  tax."  The 
chief  of  his  Middle-Western  studies  of  fuller  length  is  Rose  of  Dut  chefs 
Coolly  (1895),  honest  apprentice  work  in  the  manner  of  Howells— a  story 
of  a  farm  girl  who  goes  to  the  state  university  at  Madison,  Wisconsin,  and 
then  attempts  a  career  in  Chicago  which  ends  with  her  marriage  to  a 
writer.  More  important  are  the  short  stories  published  in  Main-Travelled 
Roads  (1891),  Prairie  Folks  (1893),  and  Wayside  Courtships  (1897),  all 
written  before  1892.  In  these  he  suppressed  propaganda  for  the  Farmer's 
Alliance  but  frequently  loaded  the  narratives  with  graphic  details  of  the 
poverty  and  hopelessness  of  the  farm  belt  and  especially  with  the  stultify- 
ing effects  of  hard  labor.  In  "Lucretia  Burns"  his  milkmaid  did  not  sing 
blithely  in  pastoral  tradition  but 

rose  from  the  cow's  side  at  last,  and,  taking  her  pails  of  foaming  milk,  staggered 
toward  the  gate.  The  two  pails  hung  from  her  lean  arms,  her  bare  feet  slipped 
on  the  filthy  ground,  her  greasy  and  faded  calico  dress  showed  her  tired  and 
swollen  ankles,  and  the  mosquitoes  swarmed  mercilessly  on  her  neck  and 
bedded  themselves  in  her  colorless  hair.13 

All  of  the  tales  are  descriptive  of  life  as  Garland  actually  saw  it;  they  are 
remarkable  for  their  honesty  but  lack  the  obsessive  power  of  a  Chekhov. 
Rarely  is  a  humorous  gloss  cast  over  the  drab  accounts  of  farm  girls 
eloping  with  the  hired  men,  the  soldier  returning  to  his  lonely  acres,  or 
the  camp  meetings  providing  an  ugly  escape  for  the  emotionally-starved 

12  "The  Local  Novel,"  Crumbling  Idols  (Chicago,  1894),  p.  74. 

13  Prairie  Folks  (New  York  and  London,  new  and  rev.  edition  [1899]),  p.  83. 


65o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

workers  of  the  plains.  The  poor  of  the  Western  prairies,  he  pointed  out, 
sleep  as  unhealthily  close  in  their  attics  as  the  dwellers  in  the  city  slums. 
Continually,  he  drove  home  a  picture  of  dreadful,  emotion-desiccating 
poverty.  Only  occasionally  did  he  relieve  his  sombre  pictures  with  some- 
thing in  a  lighter  vein,  such  as  "The  Sociable  at  Dudley's,"  an  accurate 
representation  of  the  horseplay,  love-making,  and  quarreling  that  went 
to  make  up  an  old-fashioned  party  for  the  young  people  of  the  Border. 
The  beauties  of  prairie  flowers  and  fun  were  largely  reserved  for  a  few 
of  the  Middle-Western  poems  gathered  up  in  Prairie  Songs  (1893),  though 
the  magazine  editors  forced  him  to  lighten  the  endings  of  his  tales  and 
to  conform  somewhat  to  the  prevailing  reluctance  of  readers  to  find 
literary  pleasure  in  the  miserable. 

Howells,  who  became  his  friend  and  patron,  wisely  urged  him  to  better 
his  style,  the  editor  of  The  Century  demanded  that  he  should  not  forget 
beauty,  and  the  owner  of  McClure's  Magazine  suggested  a  turn  to  more 
palatable  subject  matter.  Eventually,  Garland  chose  the  more  exciting- 
region  further  west  and  fabricated  serial  novels  and  stories  concerned 
with  brash  sons  of  the  cattle  country  who  fall  in  love  with  tenderfoot 
ladies  from  the  cultured  East.  His  first  really  successful  novel  was  The 
Captain  of  the  Gray -Horse  Troop  (1902),  previously  serialized  in  The 
Saturday  Evening  Post  and  later  made  into  a  movie.  In  this,  as  well  as  in 
a  number  of  other  works,  he  espoused  the  cause  of  the  Indians  against 
the  ranchers  who  sought  to  acquire  their  reservations.  The  conservation 
of  Western  lands  also  became  a  favorite  topic  with  him,  along  with  extra- 
sensory perception,  a  field  in  which  he  published  a  book  entitled  Forty 
Years  of  Psychic  Research  (1936).  Theodore  Roosevelt  called  upon  him 
for  advice  on  conservation  and  Indian  problems. 

None  of  Hamlin  Garland's  Far  Western  narratives  is  as  important  as 
his  earlier  tales  of  the  Middle  Border,  a  subject  to  which  he  returned  in 
1898  when  he  began  writing  an  autobiography.  This  was  revised  several 
times  before  appearing  as  A  Son  of  the  Middle  Border  (19 17).  In  it  he 
recovered  the  zest  of  boyhood,  and  he  remembered  the  joys  of  prairie 
life  as  well  as  the  plagues  of  grasshoppers,  the  isolation,  and  calloused 
hands.  Its  first  twenty  chapters  or  so  represent  his  best  writing.  The  suc- 
cess of  the  work  as  a  serial  in  Collier's  and  as  a  book  caused  him  to  con- 
tinue with  the  history  of  his  family  in  a  series  of  volumes,  none  of  which, 
however,  approaches  the  first  in  either  style  or  historical  consequence. 
These  incursions  into  biography  were  followed  by  four  volumes  of 
reminiscence  especially  valuable  for  the  light  they  shed  upon  the  literary 
scene  in  which  his  own  career  was  set:  Roadside  Meetings  (1930),  Com- 
panions on  the  Trail  (1931),  My  Friendly  Contemporaries  (1932),  and 
Afternoon  Neighbors  (1934).  Based  on  an  extensive  journal  religiously 
kept  for  many  years,  these  books  provide  invaluable  aid  for  the  student 
of  the  literary  history  of  America  during  the  fifty  years  following  1880. 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  651 

Among  other  things,  they  show  clearly  how  futile  were  their  author's 
efforts  in  the  nineties  to  establish  Chicago  as  an  important  literary  center. 
By  191 5  Garland  himself  forsook  the  West  and  settled  in  New  York, 
spending  his  summers  in  Europe,  far  from  the  prairies  and  the  cattle 
country  which  he  had  spent  long  years  in  trying  to  immortalize  in  fiction. 
Though  his  reputation  has  declined  precipitously  since  his  death  and  his 
realism  has  been  charged  with  lukewarmness,  it  is  a  curious  fact  that  he 
showed  more  awareness  of  the  importance  of  sex  in  the  treatment  of 
character  than  most  of  his  generation,  albeit  the  love  affairs  which  he 
devised  seem  commonplace  to  those  who  know  Dreiser,  Dos  Passos,  or 
Hemingway. 


Upon  turning  to  the  local-color  movement  as  it  dealt  with  the  South, 
one  finds  no  writer  who  depicted  the  section  with  the  honest  "veritism" 
of  Garland.  To  be  sure,  John  W.  DeForest  in  such  novels  as  Kate  Beau- 
mont (1872)  and  The  Bloody  Chasm  (1881)  reproduced  authentic 
glimpses  of  the  life  and  manners  of  South  Carolina,  though  he  more  fre- 
quently satirized  them;  but  he  was  little  interested  in  genre  writing  and 
he  scarcely  deserves  mention  in  the  present  chapter.  Constance  Fenimore 
Woolson  (1840-94),  after  making  her  mark  as  a  short-story  writer  con- 
cerned with  the  region  near  the  Great  Lakes,  visited  the  Carolinas  and 
Florida  and  sympathetically  recorded  aspects  of  the  life  of  Southerners 
during  Reconstruction  days  in  a  volume  of  sketches  entitled  Rodman  the 
Keeper  (1880).  But  Italy  soon  became  her  habitat,  and  she  forsook  local- 
color  work  to  compose  novels  of  character,  several  of  which,  however, 
have  their  setting  in  the  South.  Her  later  short  stories  are  largely  European 
in  background.  Henry  James,  one  of  her  masters,  gave  her  friendly  criti- 
cal notice  in  Partial  Portraits,  but  his  recognition  of  her  artistry  has  not 
served  to  keep  her  work  alive.  The  native  sons  and  daughters  of  the 
Southland  often  clamored  vociferously  for  a  distinctively  sectional  litera- 
ture, just  as  they  had  done  before  the  war,  though  many  realized  that 
there  were  no  literary  centers  within  their  domain  and  that  the  only 
avenues  to  the  reading  public  were  through  the  Northern  publishers 
and  magazines. 

As  has  been  said,  the  Civil  War  was  followed  by  a  profusion  of  works 
dealing  with  military  history,  scenes  of  battles,  and  biographies  of  heroes; 
and  after  1880  such  books  and  articles  steadily  grew  in  number.  The 
South,  as  a  result,  received  widespread  attention  merely  as  the  principal 
background  of  the  war.  In  addition,  the  efforts  of  the  radical  Republicans 
to  keep  themselves  in  power  bv  "waving  the  bloody  shirt"  and  the  pub- 
licity given  the  details  of  Reconstruction  added  further  to  the  general 
interest.  But  in  time  the  desire  for  Southern  votes,  the  good  natuue  of  the 
American  people,  and  the  necessity  of  close  economic  intercourse  soon 


652  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

paved  the  way  to  reunion.14  After  the  disputed  election  of  President 
Haves,  the  political  control  of  the  South  was  allowed  to  fall  into  the 
hands  of  the  Southern  whites.  Bv  1890  the  "bloody  shirt"  tactics  of  the 
Republicans  were  of  little  avail.  Thus  the  war  and,  for  a  time,  national 
politics  both  contrived  to  bring  about  a  great  demand  for  material  dealing 
with  the  South,  and  consequently  publishers  were  alert  to  give  a  hearing 
to  its  authors  who  would  supply  satisfactory  copy.  A  third  cause  of  the 
enormous  amount  of  writing  about  the  section  during  the  last  quarter  of 
the  century  was  the  aura  of  romance  which  laid  a  gentle  mist  over  the  land- 
scape even  as  the  haze  obliterates  the  sharper  outlines  of  the  Blue  Ridge 
Mountains.  Something  of  the  traditional  glamour  of  all  southern  climes 
exerted  upon  dwellers  in  a  colder  region  was  involved— the  idealization 
which  led  a  Goethe  to  sing  of  the  land  where  the  golden  oranges  glow 
and  a  Browning  to  proclaim  that  Italy  was  engraved  inside  his  heart. 
More  especially,  the  society  and  manners  of  an  old  chivalric  regime  lent 
themselves  easily  to  romance,  with  the  gallantry  of  the  leisured  class  and 
the  quaintness  of  the  Negro  peasantry.  Obviously,  the  prevailing  taste 
of  the  time  was  for  humor  and  sentiment,  and  the  South  was  well  stocked 
with  both.  Its  Negroes  had  long  been  one  of  the  conventional  sources  of 
mirth,  and  there  were  hillbillies  and  "crackers"  galore  to  substitute  for 
the  Pikes  or  the  bumpkins  of  the  Middle  West— and  the  proud  ladies  and 
gentlemen  of  the  region  were  to  be  pitied  as  they  murmured  gently  of 
the  old  and  happy  far-off  days  before  the  war.  As  a  result  of  these  several 
factors  there  arose  in  the  eighties  a  demand  for  Southern  local  color  that 
was  well  nigh  insatiable.  A4ark  Twain,  tiring  of  lecturing  as  a  soloist  and 
wishing  a  companion  to  share  its  pains  and  profits,  very  shrewdly  turned 
for  aid  to  Joel  Chandler  Harris  and  George  Washington  Cable.  Agnes 
Repplier  as  a  girl  in  Philadelphia  concluded  upon  reading  Mrs.  Stowe's 
classic  that  any  social  system  capable  of  producing  as  noble  a  creature  as 
Uncle  Tom  deserved  to  be  perpetuated.  Even  Thomas  Wentworth 
Higginson,  who  had  helped  a  fugitive  slave  to  escape  from  prison  and 
commanded  a  regiment  of  black  troops  during  the  war,  is  alleged  to  have 
been  discovered  thirty  years  later  weeping  over  the  death  of  a  slave- 
owner recounted  in  a  story  by  Thomas  Nelson  Page.  In  fiction  at  least 
the  old  order  won  out. 

Until  the  late  seventies  there  seemed  to  be  a  dearth  of  Southern  authors, 
though  John  Esten  Cooke  continued  during  the  sixties  to  exalt  his  section 
ill  historical  romances,  and  in  the  early  seventies  Richard  Malcolm 
Johnston  (1822-98)  reprinted  and  added  to  his  Georgia  Sketches  (1864) 
under  the  new  title  of  Dukesborough  Tales  (1871  and  1874).  But  these 
inexpert  anecdotes  were  scarcely  known  until  Harpers  reissued  them  in 

11  Paul  II.  Buck,  The  Road  to  Reunion,  1865-1900  (Boston,  1937),  devotes  Chaps. 
VIII  and  IX  to  literature  as  a  cause,  and  a  symptom  of  the  lessening,  of  the  chasm 
between  the  sections. 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  653 

1883,  a  time  when  the  demand  for  Southern  dialect  tales  exceeded  the 
supply.  Neglected  all  his  previous  Jife,  the  author  at  the  age  of  sixty  now 
found  himself  sought  after  by  the  magazines,  and  he  speedily  gratified 
them  with  a  number  of  novels  and  shorter  narratives  typical  of  which 
is  Old  Times  in  Middle  Georgia  (1897).  None  of  his  work  is  of  impor- 
tance save  as  it  is  symptomatic  of  the  taste  of  the  times,  though  histori- 
cally he  has  a  place  as  a  link  between  Augustus  Baldwin  Longstreet  and 
the  more  distinguished  Georgians  of  a  later  day. 

It  was  George  Washington  Cable  (1844-1925)  who  ushered  in  the 
vogue  of  the  new  school  of  the  South  with  seven  slowly-moving  but 
finished  tales  depicting  life  among  the  Creoles  of  Louisiana  during  the 
first  half  of  the  century  and  entitled  Old  Creole  Days  (1879).  Of  New 
Orleans  birth,  and  schooled  but  little,  Cable  had  served  in  the  Confederate 
army  and  had  made  his  living  by  bookkeeping.  He  had  taken  a  fling  at 
the  inevitable  newspaper  journalism  after  recuperating  from  an  attack  of 
fever  and  eventually  contributed  to  the  Picayune  a  column  called  "Drop 
Shot."  But  he  was  an  indifferent  reporter,  and  when  his  religious  scruples 
caused  him  to  refuse  to  review  theatrical  performances  he  lost  his  position 
with  the  newspaper  and  resumed  the  occupation  of  a  clerical  worker 
with  a  firm  of  cotton  factors.  The  instincts  of  an  antiquary  were  strong 
within  him,  and,  mastering  French,  he  delved  into  the  historical  records 
of  his  city  and  state,  at  first  employing  the  material  for  newspaper  articles 
and  short  stories.  In  1872  Edward  King,  who  had  gone  on  the  road  to 
gather  information  for  a  series  of  papers  later  collected  in  The  Great 
South  (1875),  discovered  the  young  antiquary  and  arranged  for  the  pub- 
lication of  several  of  his  tales.  Their  background  was  refreshingly  novel, 
their  dialect  skilfully  suggested,  and  their  humor  and  sentiment  were  al- 
together delightful.  The  reception  of  the  stories  in  Scribnefs  Monthly, 
and  in  Appleton's  Journal  seemed  to  justify  reproduction  in  book  form, 
and  Old  Creole  Days  was  the  result— one  of  the  classic  volumes  of  Ameri- 
can genre  tales.  Cable  now  turned  to  authorship  professionally  and  em- 
barked upon  a  career  as  a  writer  of  serial  novels,  beginning  with  The 
Grandissimes  (1880),  a  romantic  account  of  Creoles  in  New  Orleans  with 
a  confused  plot  in  which  he  imbedded  a  gripping  and  sympathetic  short 
story  dealing  with  a  Negro  slave,  "The  Story  of  Bras  Coupe."  The  un- 
usual favor  bestowed  by  Northern  critics  soon  caused  him  to  be  recog- 
nized as  one  of  the  major  writers  of  the  country;  a  poll  conducted  by  The 
Critic  in  1884  of  candidates  for  a  mythical  American  academy  assigned 
him  twelfth  place,  just  ahead  of  Henry  James  and  Mark  Twain.  Both 
Washington  and  Lee  University  and  Yale  conferred  upon  him  honorary 
degrees,  while  requests  began  to  come  in  for  his  appearance  on  the  lecture 
platform.  Further  requiting  the  avid  taste  for  Louisiana  life  and  manners, 
Cable  wrote  a  most  excellent  novelette  dealing  with  a  quadroon,  Madame 
Delphine  (1881),  later  embodied  in  new  editions  of  Old  Creole  Days,  and 


654  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

issued  a  collection  of  Strange  True  Stories  of  Louisiana  (1889).  These 
last  are  without  the  charm  of  his  romantic  touch.  The  only  other  of  his 
shorter  tales  similar  to  the  original  narratives  in  his  first  volume,  the 
novelette  excepted,  is  "Pere  Raphael,"  published  in  The  Century  in  1901. 

In  his  second  full-length  novel,  Dr.  Sevier  (1885),  Cable  abandoned  the 
picturesque  prewar  period  and  fashioned  a  story  of  the  Civil  War  era 
in  New  Orleans;  and  in  Bonaventure  (1888)  he  introduced  the  Acadians, 
French-speaking  descendants  of  the  Nova  Scotians  described  in  the  first 
part  of  Longfellow's  Evangeline.  In  general,  these,  and  the  other  novels 
by  Cable,  are  of  little  moment  compared  with  his  short  stories,  and  thev 
have  ceased  to  be  read,  though  his  treatment  of  the  Negro  and  of  Southern 
problems  is  important  historically  as  representing  a  liberal  attitude  ex- 
tremely uncommon  among  the  authors  of  the  South.  His  economic  and 
social  opinions  are  most  readily  gleaned  in  the  various  sociological  articles 
and  tracts  which  came  from  his  pen.  Cable  was  at  heart  as  much  of  a 
reforming  zealot  as  any  New  Englander,  and  his  straightlaced  religious 
doctrines  almost  maddened  Mark  Twain,  whom  he  urged  to  attend 
church  and  Sunday  school  when  the  two  men  were  on  lecture  tours.  The 
Creoles  of  the  better  class  objected  to  Cable's  treatment  of  their  fellows 
in  his  early  books,  and  he  later  revised  their  patois  so  as  to  admit  of  the 
educated  ones  speaking  more  correct  English.  Eventually  he  was  dis- 
owned by  all  Southerners  because  of  the  radical  opinions  expressed  in 
such  books  as  The  Silent  South  (1885)  and  The  Negro  Question  (1888). 
It  is  often  stated  that  his  removal  to  Massachusetts  in  1885  was  due  to  the 
resentment  of  his  native  section. 

The  background  which  he  first  presented  was  absolutely  new  to 
readers  of  the  day,  and  he  was  responsible  for  an  enthusiasm  over  Creole 
characters  which  has  never  ceased.  Other  Louisiana  authors  soon  followed 
in  his  path,  like  Grace  Elizabeth  King  (1851-1932),  who,  beginning  in 
1886,  published  a  number  of  slightly  garrulous  but  able  short  stories 
contrasting  the  French  and  American  manners  of  the  population  and  fre- 
quently introducing  Negroes  as  characters.  Better  as  a  fabricator  of 
contes  was  Mrs.  Kate  O'Flaherty  Chopin  (1 851-1904),  whose  pathetic 
story  of  "Desiree's  Baby"  (1893)  has  a  crispness  of  structure  reminiscent 
of  de  iMaupassant.  Her  emphasis,  however,  was  primarily  on  character 
delineation,  a  point  well  illustrated  in  her  last  novel,  The  Avoakening 
(1899),  which  skilfully  depicted  a  philandering  woman  but  frightened 
the  critics  into  charges  of  "unwholcsomeness."  The  Awakening  has  to  do 
with  the  unloved  young  wife  of  a  Creole  businessman  and  is  probably 
as  near  to  a  Madame  Bovary  as  the  period  produced.  It  deserves  a  worthy 
place  in  the  history  of  sterner  realism  in  nineteenth-century  America.  In 
restraint  and  structural  neatness  it  is  wholly  admirable,  though  it  lacks 
both  the  intensity  mu\  richness  of  VVilla  Cather's  somewhat  similar  study, 
A  Lost  Lady. 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  655 

Next  to  Cable  in  importance  among  the  local  colorists  of  the  South  is 
the  Georgian,  Joel  Chandler  Harris  (1848- 1908),  son  of  an  Irish  laborer, 
whose  training  in  journalism  and  in  literature  was  acquired  on  a  large 
plantation  near  Edenton.  As  a  boy  he  assisted  in  printing  The  Country- 
man, a  paper  begun  during  the  war  and  modelled  on  Addison's  Spectator. 
He  steadily  climbed  the  ladder  of  local  success  as  reporter  and  editorial 
writer  for  a  number  of  papers,  and  in  1877  joined  the  staff  of  the  Atlanta 
Constitution,  which  he  helped  to  make  renowned  as  one  of  the  chief 
journals  of  the  New  South.  When  his  humorous  sketches  of  Negro  char- 
acter came  to  national  cognizance  in  the  late  seventies,  he  was  immedi- 
ately  besieged  with  offers  from  the  North  and  became  a  contributor  to 
such  periodicals  as  The  Century  and  later  The  Saturday  Evening  Post 
but  remained  in  Georgia.  Harris  kept  a  connection  with  the  Constitution 
until  1907,  when  he  devoted  his  waning  energy  to  writing  for  Uncle 
Remus' }s  Magazine,  a  short-lived  journal  founded  to  profit  by  his  reputa- 
tion. Like  Cable,  he  made  up  for  the  deficiencies  of  his  schooling  by  wide 
reading  among  the  classic  authors,  and  he  was  quite  able  to  defend  Haw- 
thorne from  the  charges  of  provincialism  made  by  Henry  James.15  His 
editorials  were  couched  in  clear  and  vigorous  English,  and  they  exerted 
effect  during  Reconstruction  days,  when  he  tactfully  argued  that  the 
property  and  the  intelligence  of  the  South  should  not  be  put  in  the 
charge  of  those  who  had  neither  property  nor  intelligence.  But  his  forte 
was  dialect,  and  his  best  work  is  to  be  seen  in  the  many  tales  put  in  the 
mouth  of  an  aged  darky  named  Uncle  Remus,  who  at  first  told  stories  of 
a  postwar  date  but  soon  shifted  to  days  before  the  Civil  War.  The  char- 
acter of  the  old  Negro  was  first  conceived  as  a  mere  mouthpiece  for 
commentary  on  problems  of  the  times,  but  Harris,  luckily,  was  impressed 
by  reading  an  article  on  the  folklore  of  the  Southern  Negro  and  began 
using  the  store  of  yarns  which  he  had  acquired  by  long  association  with 
field  hands  and  cooks.  Later,  his  readers  turned  in  a  fresh  supply  of 
material,  which  he  adapted  as  he  saw  fit,  and  in  time  he  turned  his  back 
on  folklore.  His  dialect  has  been  universally  praised  for  its  ease  and  ac- 
curacy. The  tales,  gathered  up  in  Uncle  Remus:  His  Songs  and  Sayings 
(1880),  Nights  with  Uncle  Remus  (1883),  Uncle  Remus  and  His  Friends 
(1892),  and  other  volumes,  constitute  a  precious  body  of  distinctive  work 
and  prove  that  the  old  fascination  of  the  Beast  Epic  could  be  revived  in 
an  age  of  McCorjnick  reapers  and  street  cars.  The  continuing  appeal  of 
his  clever  rabbit  and  the  other  animals  who  people  the  stories  is  obvious 
in  the  success  of  the  Walt  Disney  movie,  "Song  of  the  South,"  and  the 
comic  strip  of  recent  date.  The  best  of  the  stories,  found  chiefly  in  the 

15  "Provinciality  in  Literature— A  Defence  of  Boston,"  Constitution  for  Jan.  25, 
1880;  reprinted  in  Joel  Chandler  Harris:  Editor  and  Essayist,  ed.  Julia  C.  Harris 
(Chapel  Hill,  N.  C.,  1931),  pp.  186-191.  For  JameVs  attitude  toward  the  dialect 
writers,  see  The  Art  of  the  Novel  (1934),  pp.  279-280. 


656  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

earlier  books,  are  marvels  of  the  art  that  conceals  art  and  possess  a 
limpidity  in  narration  difficult  to  equal.  But  so  great  was  the  demand  that 
Harris  exhausted  the  lode  which  he  had  unearthed,  and  the  last  collec- 
tions of  the  Uncle  Remus  series  are  nothing  more  than  second-rate 
juveniles. 

Though  there  are  many  other  tales  by  Harris,  in  the  dialect  of  moun- 
taineers, of  "crackers"  from  Middle  Georgia,  and  even  in  the  Gullah 
speech  of  the  coastal  Negroes,  none  of  them  equals  in  appeal  "The  Tar 
Baby,"  "The  Story  of  the  Deluge,"  or  "The  Awful  Fate  of  Brer  Wolf." 
If,  however,  their  author  had  never  written  a  single  one  of  the  Uncle 
Remus  series,  he  would  still  rank  high  as  a  local  colorist  on  the  strength  of 
Mingo  and  Other  Sketches  in  Black  and  White  (1884)  and  Free  Joe  and 
Other  Georgian  Sketches  (1887),  both  notable  for  technical  skill  of  a  high 
order  and  a  shrewdly  manipulated  reflection  of  local  manners. 

About  the  same  time  that  Harris  came  into  prominence,  a  number  of 
other  Southerners  were  given  a  hearing  in  the  magazines  and  reaped  a 
success  with  their  subsequent  work  such  as  cheered  Johnston  in  his  old 
age.  For  example,  Mary  Noailles  Murfree  (1850- 192 2)  charmed  the 
readers  of  The  Atlantic  with  her  stories  of  the  mountaineers  of  her  native 
state,  published  under  the  pen  name  Charles  Egbert  Craddock  and  col- 
lected in  the  volume  In  the  Tennessee  Mountains  (1884).  The  book  was 
given  flattering  attention  by  critics,  but  the  reputation  which  she  achieved 
was  never  sanctioned  by  her  later  work.  Another  was  Thomas  Nelson 
Page  (1853- 1922),  who  later  became  an  ambassador  to  Italy.  He  set  a 
fashion  for  romanticizing  the  old  regime  in  his  native  state  with  a  collec- 
tion called  In  Ole  Virginia  (1887).  These  stories,  though  phonetically 
more  accurate  than  most  dialect  tales,  bolstered  the  convention  of  un- 
naturally picturesque  Negro  speech  which  had  already  been  encouraged 
and  portrayed  plantation  life  with  such  attractive  excess  that  other  writers 
soon  followed  suit  in  ornamenting  Virginia  colonels  with  a  fetching- 
charm  they  never  possessed  and  bestowing  upon  the  slaves  a  loyalty  which 
might  have  made  the  faithful  Achates  wince  with  envy.  Such  romantic 
pleasantries  went  the  rounds  of  the  better  magazines  for  a  time  and  then 
found  a  place  in  less  literary  repositories.  That  the  moonlight-and-mag- 
nolias  tradition  which  Page  exemplified  continued  to  attract  readers  is 
proved  not  only  by  the  narratives  of  Francis  Hopkinson  Smith  (1838- 
19 1 5)  and  a  few  of  the  stories  of  O.  Henry  but  by  the  fact  that  Harry 
Stillwell  Edwards  (1 855-1938),  a  Georgia  journalist,  as  late  as  1919  pro- 
duced a  sentimental  tale  of  a  faithful  Negro  'TEneas  Africanus"  which 
has  enjoyed  a  currency  equalled  by  few  American  short  stories  of  any 
sort.  Edwards,  it  may  be  added,  first  came  to  the  fore  in  1896,  when  he 
won  the  ten-thousand-dollar  prize  offered  by  the  Chicago  Record  in  a 
short-story  contest.  Even  the  Negroes  themselves  joined  in  the  celebra- 
tion of  the  good  old  days,  for  Paul  Laurence  Dunbar  (1872-1906),  most 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  657 

promising  of  Afro-American  poets  of  the  century,  sang,  in  "Goin'  Back," 
of  a  Kentucky 

Back  whar  my  heart  was  full  o'  glee 
Back  whar  I  first  found  liberty, 

though  at  the  time  he  was  operating  an  elevator  in  Dayton,  Ohio,  and  ex- 
alting Shelley  as  his  favorite  poet.  The  publishers,  when  they  discovered 
him,  demanded  dialect  at  all  costs,  and  of  the  twelve  stories  published  in 
his  Folks  from  Dixie  (1898)  five  deal  with  the  blessed  days  "befo'  de 
wah."  16  A  later  collection  by  Dunbar  sports  the  revealing  title  In  Old 
Plantation  Days  (1903). 

The  romantic  excess  which  seemed  inescapable  when  one  wrote  about 
the  South  is  also  noticeable  in  the  early  work  of  James  Lane  Allen  (1849- 
1925),  a  much  better  stylist  than  Page  and  his  imitators  though  less  of  a 
humorist.  When  informed  by  the  editor  of  Harper's  Magazine  that  his 
own  Kentucky  was  one  of  the  few  Southern  areas  without  a  celebrant, 
he  promptly  stepped  into  the  breach.  Flute  and  Violin  ( 1 89 1 )  is  a  collec- 
tion of  his  short  stories,  mainly  sentimental,  which  have  to  do  with  the 
blue-grass  country;  and  A  Kentucky  Cardinal  (1894)  and  The  Choir 
Invisible  (1897)  are  examples  of  his  longer  fiction.  In  The  Reign  of  Law 
(1900)  he  showed  distinct  promise  with  a  rural  novel  in  a  more  realistic 
manner  but  in  time  forsook  the  local-color  tradition  altogether.  A  melan- 
choly disposition  and  a  realization  that  he  needed  to  keep  up  with  newer, 
more  intellectual  currents  induced  Allen  to  write  several  more  narratives, 
moodily  tragic  or  symbolic,  which  often  dealt  with  marital  misalliance. 
These  cost  him  the  lingering  remnants  of  the  great  popularity  attained 
by  The  Choir  Invisible  and  helped  him  not  at  all  to  outlive  his  reputation 
as  a  genteel  reporter  of  Kentucky  scenes. 

To  most  Southerners  during  the  last  quarter  of  the  century  the  ro- 
manticizing of  the  old  South  was  a  grateful  form  of  escape,  a  balm  to 
hurt  pride,  a  belt  of  gold  that  concealed  the  hidden  wound.  To  most 
Northerners  it  was  also  a  grateful  form  of  escape,  but  with  a  difference— 
a  recrudescence  of  long-cherished  chivalric  myth.  In  spite  of  the  Glas- 
gows  and  Faulkners  and  Caldwells,  most  Americans  still  prefer  the  myth 
of  an  Old  South  of  moonlight  and  magnolias  to  the  sociology  of  the 
Tobacco  Roads. 


Of  the  genre  writers  who  turned  their  attention  to  New  England  in 
the  wake  of  Mrs.  Stowe  and  Rose  Terry  Cooke  the  most  eminent  are 
Sarah  Orne  Jewett  (1 849-1909)  and  Mary  Wilkins  Freeman  (1 852-1930). 
Compared  with  their  contemporaries  of  the  local-color  movement  they 
appear  as  more  accomplished  realists.  The  former  tacked  up  over  her 

16  Virginia  Cunningham,  Paul  Laurence  Dunbar  and  His  Song  (1947),  p.  170. 


658  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

desk  a  motto  from  Flaubert,  and  both  seem  to  have  been  early  influenced 
by  Howells.  But  the  gust  of  historical  romance  in  the  nineties  swept  them 
loose  from  their  moorings,  though  they  long  resisted  the  lure  of  the  ro- 
mantic; and  even  their  most  faithful  work,  treating  the  humble  villagers 
chiefly  in  eastern  Massachusetts  and  Maine,  often  lacks  penetration  and  is 
modified  by  the  demand  for  humor  or  sentiment.  Both  came  from  families 
long  resident  in  the  section  and  were  familiar  with  the  life  of  its  hamlets 
and  rock-strewn  farms— and  both  passed  an  apprenticeship  as  writers  for 
children. 

Miss  Jewett,  one  of  the  most  capable  stylists  of  the  whole  group  of 
local  colorists,  was  born  in  South  Berwick,  Maine,  where  she  maintained 
a  patrician  home  until  her  death,  but  she  frequently  made  long  visits  to 
Boston  and  travelled  abroad.  Her  knowledge  of  her  native  countryside 
was  enhanced  by  accompanying  her  father,  a  physician,  as  he  made  his 
calls,  and  at  the  age  of  seventeen  she  was  impressed  with  its  potentialities 
for  literature  by  reading  Mrs.  Stowe's  The  Pearl  of  Orr's  Island  (1862),  a 
Dorfgeschichte  of  the  Maine  coast.  Her  first  work  of  consequence  was 
a  series  of  village  sketches  published  in  The  Atlantic  which,  at  the  sug- 
gestion of  Howells,  she  brought  out  in  book  form  as  Deephaven  (1877), 
tenderly  sentimental  and  humorous  episodes  unified  chiefly  by  their  au- 
thor's understanding  of  the  decaying  civilization  and  the  social  manners 
of  a  remote  provincial  area.  The  subject  matter  was  to  prove  an  important 
element  in  many  of  her  subsequent  narratives  and  particularly  in  her 
masterpiece,  The  Country  of  the  Pointed  Firs  (1896).  Episodic,  like 
Deephaven,  this  book  is  a  study  of  the  coastal  region  of  southern  Maine, 
written  in  a  flexible  style  which  gracefully  poises  in  its  serene  move- 
ment a  rare  picture  of  life,  love,  and  death  among  the  fisher-farmer  folk. 
The  materials  are  simple— a  summer  visitor  gives  the  point  of  view— a 
quiet  but  seemingly  veracious  image  emerges;  and  the  characters,  as- 
suming an  importance  through  the  skill  of  delineation,  are  as  consequential 
as  the  peculiarities  of  setting.  These  same  qualities  are  at  times  apparent 
in  various  shorter  pieces  which  compose  volumes  like  A  White  Heron 
and  Other  Stories  (1886)  and  A  Native  of  Winby  and  Other  Tales 
(1893),  which  earlier  established  their  author  as  a  magazinist  of  unusual 
artistry.  The  absence  of  plot  interest,  however,  bothered  the  critics  of 
her  generation. 

Her  novels  are  of  less  importance  than  her  tales,  though  they  allow 
her  leisured  method  more  opportunity  to  develop  character  and  possess 
more  incident.  A  Country  Doctor  (1884),  a  study  of  a  woman  physician, 
is  better  than  Howells's  novel  on  the  same  subject;  and  The  Tory  Lover 
(1901)  is  an  unsatisfactory  historical  romance  dealing  in  part  with  the 
adventures  of  John  Paul  Jones  in  Maine  during  the  Revolutionary  War. 
An  opulence  of  invention  was  not  one  of  Miss  Jewett's  gifts,  as  it  was  with 
Harte;  and  her  reputation  rests  upon  a  precise  and  carefully  molded  style 


EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES  659 

used  to  paint  a  half  graphic,  half  idyllic  portrait  of  a  passing  culture  in 
a  picturesque  environment.  Her  dialect  is  genteelly  restricted  and  is 
ancillary  to  the  portrayal  of  character  rather  than,  as  was  commonly  the 
case,  an  overt  bid  for  humor. 

Less  artistic  but  frequently  more  vigorous  and  far  more  versatile  than 
Miss  Jewett  was  A4ary  Wilkins,  who  in  1902  became  Mrs.  Freeman  and 
changed  her  place  of  residence  to  New  Jersey.  She  was  the  daughter  of 
a  carpenter  in  Randolph,  Massachusetts,  but  as  a  child  lived  also  in 
Vermont.  Her  first  volume  of  tales,  A  Humble  Romance  and  Other 
Stories  (1887),  followed  by  A  New  England  Nun  (1891),  founded  her 
reputation  as  a  local  colorist.  She  wrote  many  more  short  narratives  with 
a  rural  Massachusetts  setting,  and  in  Silence  and  Other  Stories  (1898) 
succumbed  to  the  demand  for  the  romance  of  history.  In  The  Heart's 
Highway  (1900)  she  followed  that  popular  trend  with  a  novel  of  seven- 
teenth-century Virginia.  Shortly  afterwards  she  published  a  collection 
of  stories  of  the  supernatural,  involving  spiritism— a  parlor  interest  of  the 
time.  The  economic  discussions  of  the  late  century  also  sidetracked  her 
into  composing  a  novel  concerned  with  a  strike  of  workers  in  a  shoe 
factory,  The  Portion  of  Labor  (1901),  in  which  she  is  sympathetic  toward 
labor  but  more  occupied  with  depicting  a  woman  whose  commonplace 
and  even  ugly  destiny  is  accepted  with  dignity  and  devotion.  This  interest 
in  the  nobility  of  plebeian  women  victimized  by  fate  and  environment 
is  one  of  the  prominent  themes  recurring  throughout  her  work  and  was 
probably  the  reason  for  her  influence  upon  Hamlin  Garland,  whose  rage 
at  the  hardships  endured  by  farm  women  was  intensified  by  observing 
their  disastrous  effects  upon  his  own  mother.  Of  her  several  novels,  none 
distinguished,  a  better  sample  is  Pembroke  ( 1 894) ,  in  which  various  types 
of  austere  New  Englanders  are  drawn  and  the  fidelity  of  the  heroine 
again  supplies  a  central  motif.  A  witty  reviewer  described  the  book  as  2 
"treatise  on  the  Divine  Will  manifested  as  the  New  England  Won't." 

Of  course,  there  were  many  other  exponents  of  New  England  local 
color,  now  forgotten,  but  one  little  book  seems  to  demand  a  place  in 
the  present  record,  for  it  is  as  good  an  example  of  the  realism  of  the 
commonplace  as  the  movement  produced,  and  surpasses  the  work  of  the 
two  women  just  discussed  in  earthiness  though  not  in  art.  Cape  Cod 
Folks  (1881)  was  written  at  the  age  of  twenty-three  by  a  diary-keeping 
teacher  who  substituted  for  five  months  in  a  one-room  school  on  the 
Cape.  The  author,  Sarah  Pratt  (later  Mrs.  Greene,  1856- 193 5)  gained 
vraisemblance  by  using  the  autobiographical  method  and  slighted  plot, 
to  the  advantage  of  manners  and  folkways,  which  she  described  with 
unusual  accuracy.  Humor  and  pathos  she  kept  within  bounds  by  sub- 
stituting wry,  ironic  touches.  When  the  natives  whom  she  had  described 
sued  the  publisher  on  the  ground  of  defamation  of  character,  the  book 
promptly  skyrocketed  into  notoriety.  Few  first  volumes  of  the  genre 


66o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

school  were  more  promising.  But  thereafter  Sally  Pratt  turned  out  chaff. 
She  had  exhausted  her  supply  of  living  raw  materials  and  afterwards 
floundered  upon  the  broken  crutch  of  an  imagination  unable  to  invent. 
Cape  Cod  Folks  is  an  exaggerated  example  of  the  shortcomings  of  many 
of  the  authors  associated  with  the  local-color  movement.  With  the  first 
volume  or  two  they  often  skimmed  their  cream  and  subsequently  forsook 
the  locale  which  had  given  them  prominence,  or  mercilessly  dipped  up 
the  skimmed  milk  in  bluer  and  bluer  doses.  And  many  who  might  have 
perfected  the  art  of  the  short  story  with  which  they  began  turned  to 
writing  amorphous  novels  because  novel  writing  paid  better.  Despite  the 
large  number  of  collections  of  American  short  stories,  rarely  did  such 
volumes  enjoy  the  wider  sale  of  longer  fiction. 


Today,  few  books  by  even  the  most  celebrated  genre  writers  of  the 
last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century  are  still  in  print,  and,  with  the  pos- 
sible exception  of  Bret  Harte's  and  Harris's,  no  collection  of  their  short 
stories  has  recently  had  a  vogue  such  as  that  obtained  by  the  clever 
though  meretricious  hi  the  Midst  of  Life,  by  Ambrose  Bierce,  or  the  nar- 
ratives of  O.  Henry.  The  reputation  of  the  local-color  school  of  the 
seventies  and  eighties  has  subsided  with  that  of  Dickens  and  Howells.  Yet 
they  helped  notably  in  making  American  literature  American,  and  at 
times  they  influenced  later  authors  who  have  more  searchingly  exploited 
the  sections  in  the  present  century.  Sarah  Orne  Jewett  exerted  a  profound 
effect  upon  young  Willa  Cather;  and  Ellen  Glasgow,  to  instance  another, 
began  her  career  with  novels  stuffed  with  the  kind  of  material  which 
Mary  Wilkins  Freeman  had  used.  And  even  the  efforts  of  the  romantic 
Southerners  have  not  entirely  gone  with  the  wind. 


Chapter  33 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS 


As  is  evident  from  the  preceding  discussion  of  the  local-color  movement, 
the  vast  body  of  American  readers  preferred  the  literature  of  escape,  a 
generalization  which  probably  holds  to  the  present  day.  Yet  one  who 
savors  the  fiction  of  the  sixties  and  seventies  and  similarly  samples  the 
production  of  the  subsequent  decade  must  admit  that,  in  spite  of  its 
lack  of  general  appeal,  what  we  should  now  call  realism  made  an  ad- 
vance. Setting  aside  any  consistent  philosophy  or  attitude  of  a  realistic 
sort  which  may  have  been  the  possession  of  various  authors  of  the  period, 
for  there  are  few  such  authors  to  be  found  in  the  century,  one  might 
conclude  that  the  progress  toward  modernity  in  the  more  intellectual 
fiction  of  the  era  was  due  to  the  turn  of  art  toward  the  use  of  materials 
from  the  contemporary  scene.  Manners  and  mores  evolved  with  the  on- 
rush of  industry  and  technology  and  with  the  rise  in  the  urban  popula- 
tion, to  name  but  two  of  the  signal  manifestations  of  change;  and  litera- 
ture shed  itself  somewhat  of  the  Gothicism  and  the  once-upon-a-time 
attitude  which  had  previously  been  so  obvious.  In  increasing  numbers  the 
novelists  added  a  subtitle,  "A  Tale  of  Today."  Sociological  problems 
proved  more  attractive  in  literature  as  they  seemed  insistent  in  life.  Im- 
portant, too,  was  the  fact  that  an  increasingly  large  element  among  the 
authors  was  trained  in  the  school  of  newspaper  reporting,  and  the  re- 
porter's methods  of  more  accurate  observation  and  of  note-taking  also 
contributed  to  the  trend.  Not  without  consequence,  also,  was  the  example 
of  European  writers  whose  works  were  so  abundantly  tendered  to  Ameri- 
can readers  by  piratical  publishers,  although,  by  and  large,  the  taste  of 
the  public  was  torpid.  Scott,  Dickens,  and  Thackeray  continued  in  vogue 
long  after  the  later  work  of  Thomas  Hardy  was  being  read  in  Harper's 
Magazine.  The  reputation  of  Dumas  was  continually  at  a  higher  level 
than  that  of  Zola,  as  was  the  case  also  in  England.  Whatever  there  was 
of  realism  had  to  adjust  itself  to  the  taste  of  the  middle  class  of  readers 
or  it  could  receive  no  hearing  in  the  magazines,  for  the  editors  guarded 

661 


662  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  sensibilities  of  their  subscribers  with  the  anxious  attention  of  expert 
duennas,  and  the  critics  with  few  exceptions  were  determined  that  morals 
should  not  be  undermined  by  traducing  the  idealization  of  character 
which  had  so  long  been  approved  by  tradition.  Villains  were  not  to  be 
made  attractive;  nor  were  heroines  to  have  feet  of  too  soluble  clay.1 . 
Nevertheless,  progress  was  made,  a  fact  evinced  not  only  by  the  fre- 
quency with  which  the  term  "realism"  itself  was  bandied  about  but  by  the 
attempts  to  define  it. 

Of  the  latter  a  passage  from  an  essay  on  "Modern  Fiction"  (1883)  by 
Charles  Dudley  Warner  may  be  used  as  a  sample  more  concrete  than  the 
average: 

The  characteristics  which  are  prominent,  when  we  think  of  our  recent  fiction, 
are  a  wholly  unidealized  view  of  human  society,  which  has  got  the  name  of 
realism;  a  delight  in  representing  the  worst  phases  of  social  life;  an  extreme 
analysis  of  persons  and  motives;  the  sacrifice  of  action  to  psychological  study; 
the  substitution  of  studies  of  character  for  anything  like  a  story;  a  notion  that  it 
is  not  artistic,  and  that  it  is  untrue  to  nature,  to  bring  any  novel  to  a  definite 
consummation,  and  especially  to  end  it  happily;  and  a  despondent  tone  about 
society,  politics,  and  the  whole  drift  of  modern  life.2 

Needless  to  say,  Warner  was  an  advocate  of  idealization;  and  he  prob- 
ably had  Howells  and  James  in  mind  as  he  wrote. 

During  the  sixties  realism  was  hovering  in  the  air  but  refusing  to  perch; 
yet  even  at  that  time  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  was  toying  with  the  problem 
of  heredity  and  in  his  half-whimsical  way  broaching  quirks  of  character 
such  as  have  lately  seemed  psychiatric,  and  Rebecca  Harding  Davis  (1831- 
19 10)  was  occasionally  putting  on  exhibit  such  trenchant  pictures  of 
squalor  that  she  seems  to  deserve  mention  as  a  kind  of  pioneer  who  at 
least  sharpened  an  axe  if  she  did  not  cut  much  of  a  path  through  the  ro- 
mantic jungle.  Her  short  story  "Life  in  the  Iron  Mills"  (1861)  is  indeed 
a  grim  picture,  and  it  has  made  its  way  into  the  anthologies  as  a  specimen 
of  realism  of  the  times.  A  succeeding  short  novel  Margret  Honjcth  (1862), 
likewise  with  a  mill-village  background,  is  also  mentioned  as  a  realistic 
work,  although  it  represents  a  combination  of  religiosity  and  melodrama, 
intolerable  in  construction,  and  interlarded  with  a  feeble  attempt  at  a 
Dickensian  Christmas  dinner  and  a  touching  scene  of  a  poor  crippled 

1  For  an  attack  on  Henry  James's  theory  that  the  novel  should  report  all  of  life, 
see,  for  example,  Henry  C.  Vedder,  America?!  Writers  of  To-Day  (1895),  pp.  81-82. 
In  discussing  the  charge  of  immorality  sometimes  brought  against  Bret  Harte's  stories, 
Vedder  concluded,  "It  is  the  moral  lesson  that  the  author  teaches  which  justifies  or 
condemns  his  choice  of  a  villain  as  hero"  (p.  226).  Even  Hay's  Pike  Comity  Ballads 
stirred  up  a  "moral"  discussion  (Tyler  Dennett,  John  Hay  [1933],  pp.  77-80). 

2  The  Complete  Writings  of  Charles  Dudley  Warner  (Hartford,  1904),  Vol.  15, 
PP«  i57-I58.  Compare  another  definition  of  realism  written  in  the  eighties,  Charles  F. 
Richardson,  American  Literature,  1607-1885,  2  Vols.  (New  York  and  London,  1889), 
Vol.  2,  pp.  43'~432- 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  663 

girl  dying.  At  the  end,  also,  it  seems  as  though  oil  has  been  discovered,  to 
make  the  future  happier  for  the  surviving  characters.  But,  despite  such 
grave  deficiencies,  the  story  has  an  air  of  drabness  and  sorrow,  particu- 
larly in  the  sixth  chapter,  which  describes  a  parcel  of  wretches  dwelling 
in  the  upper  story  of  a  slum  tavern  near  some  railroad  tracks.  And,  on 
the  sixth  page,  the  author  addresses  the  reader  as  follows: 

My  story  is  very  crude  and   homely I   expect  you  to  call  it  stale   and 

plebeian You  want  something,  in  fact,  to  lift  you  out  of  this  crowded, 

tobacco-stained  commonplace,  to  kindle  and  chafe  and  glow  in  you.  I  want 
you  to  dig  into  this  commonplace,  this  vulgar  American  life,  and  see  what 
is  in  it.  Sometimes  I  think  it  has  a  new  and  awful  significance  that  we  do  not 
see. 

The  idea  was,  of  course,  laudable,  but  when  the  commonplace  heroine 
quotes  us  a  bit  of  Dante  in  the  original  we  are  as  unimpressed  as  we  are 
when  told  that  the  Indiana  mill  village  is  located  in  an  area  of  mountains 
and  pine  forests.  Like  a  number  of  other  Americans  of  her  day,  Mrs. 
Davis  was  reflecting  the  use  of  poverty  in  fiction  that  had  earlier  engaged 
the  attention  of  Dickens  and  Charles  Reade.  Edward  Eggleston  seems 
more  attuned  to  reality  than  she. 

The  whole  regiment  of  minor  sentimentalists,  whose  competition  dur- 
ing the  mid-century  had  made  Hawthorne  impolitely  damn  them,  oc- 
casionally based  a  minor  character  upon  a  real  person  without  idealistic 
distortion,  or  otherwise  introduced  into  their  work  an  element  of  what 
we  might  call  realism;  but  apparently  none  of  "them  has  succeeded  in  lay- 
ing a  claim  to  the  position  of  chief  American  realist  prior  to  Howells. 
The  outstanding  contender  for  that  honor  seems  to  have  been  John 
William  DeForest  (182 6- 1906),  who  has  only  recently  been  rescued  from 
obscurity,  largely  as  a  result  of  the  reprinting  in  1939  of  his  best  book, 
Miss  RaveneFs  Conversion  from  Secession  to  Loyalty  (1867),  the  first 
novel  written  about  the  Civil  War  to  treat  character  in  an  unidealized 
fashion.  DeForest's  biography  is  unusual  in  that  he  was  born  of  a  wealthy 
family,  of  Connecticut,  but  more  conventional  in  that  he  did  not  attend 
college.  Invalidism  and  a  taste  for  study,  however,  caused  him  to  write 
a  youthful  History  of  the  Indians  of  Connecticut  (1851),  reflecting  an 
antiquarian  interest  which  also  prompted  his  first  novel,  Witching  Times 
(serialized  1856-57),  dealing  with  seventeenth-century  Massachusetts  and 
boasting  Cotton  Mather  as  a  character.  Two  books  of  travel,  based  upon 
a  stay  of  several  years  in  Syria  and  in  Europe,  also  came  from  his  pen. 
His  chief  venture  in  fiction  prior  to  Miss  RaveneVs  Conversion  was  a  tale 
of  Connecticut  of  his  own  time,  Seacliff;  or,  The  Mystery  of  the  Wester- 
velts  (1859),  a  sentimental  novel  with  a  sizable  group  of  well-differen- 
tiated characters  whom  he  intermittently  satirized,  sentimentalized,  or 
portrayed  with  plain  honesty.  Some  of  the  conversation  in  this  story  is 


66$  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

extremely  clever,  and  it  abounds  with  the  current  slang  which  ought  to 
make  DeForest  noteworthy  to  historians  of  American  speech.  The  events 
are  for  the  most  part  commonplace,  though  the  ending  crashes  through 
with  a  murder  and  a  suicide.  In  it  he  made  fun  of  Yale  students  and  por- 
trayed at  considerable  length  a  flirting  woman,  forerunners  of  similar 
interests  in  his  later  work.  The  story  gives  proof  that  its  author  could 
draw  female  character  realistically  if  he  chose  to  do  so.  During  the  Civil 
War,  DeForest  served  as  an  officer  in  Louisiana  and  later  in  Virginia, 
reported  some  of  his  campaigning  for  the  magazines,3  and  began  using  his 
own  experiences  as  the  basis  for  the  military  and  political  details  of  a  novel 
which  was  to  be  his  masterpiece. 

Miss  KaveneVs  Conversion  opens  in  Connecticut  with  a  veracious 
picture  of  the  handicaps  imposed  by  politicians  upon  the  efforts  of  the 
army  to  enlist  troops  but  soon  involves  a  triangular  plot  in  which  a  hard- 
swearing  ex-West-Pointer  from  Virginia  and  a  sober-minded  Yale  gradu- 
ate contend  for  the  hand  of  Miss  Ravenel,  daughter  of  a  professor  of 
science  who  has  removed  from  New  Orleans  because  of  his  Unionist 
views.  The  daughter  is  loyal  to  the  South  and  does  not  become  con- 
verted until  she  returns  to  Louisiana  and  is  ostracized  by  her  former 
friends.  The  character  of  Carter,  the  Virginian,  is  very  well  portrayed; 
and  of  the  feminine  portraits  the  most  astonishing  is  that  of  Mrs.  Larue, 
an  attractive  widow  who  seduces  Carter  on  a  boat  trip  from  New  Orleans 
to  New  York.  Thoroughly  unscrupulous,  she  yet  has  her  merits,  and  in 
forthright  immorality  is  one  of  the  boldest  "wicked  women"  in  all  the 
fiction  of  nineteenth-century  America.  There  are  a  number  of  excitingly 
accurate  scenes  of  military  action,  and  the  political  chicanery  which  ac- 
companied the  war  is  never  lost  sight  of.  At  times  DeForest  is  amateurish 
in  the  clumsiness  with  which  he  inserts  character  analysis,  and  there  are 
many  auctorial  asides  in  the  manner  of  Thackeray,  whose  influence  upon 
the  story  is  fairly  obvious.  But,  on  the  whole,  the  novel  is  one  of  superior 
merit  and  for  its  time  exceptionally  virile.  Its  vogue,  however,  was  small, 
and  because  of  its  boldness  it  was  not,  as  intended,  serialized  in  Harper's 
Magazine. 

The  subsequent  career  of  DeForest  shows  no  advance  in  realism.  After 
the  war  he  was  commissioned  a  captain  in  the  Veteran  Reserve  Corps, 
commanded  a  district  of  the  Freedman's  Bureau  in  South  Carolina,  and, 
upon  being  mustered  out  in  1868,  retired,  to  spend  the  rest  of  his  days 
principally  in  New  Haven.  In  1871  he  attempted  to  profit  from  the  new 
vogue  of  the  Westerns  by  publishing  Overland,  a  thriller  in  which  a 
couple  of  Mexicans  plot  against  a  beautiful  American  heiress.  The  scene 
of  action  passes  from  Santa  Fe  to  California,  and  many  an  Apache  bites 
the  dust  in  good  movie  style.  The  best  of  his  several  later  novels  is  Kate 

8  He  prepared  but  did  not  publish  an  account  of  his  military  activities,  A  Volunteer's 
Adve?itures,  ed.  James  H.  Croushore  (New  Haven,  1946). 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  665 

Beaumont  (1872),  a  Romeo-Juliet  love  story  with  a  setting  in  South 
Carolina  before  the  war.  One  of  its  female  characters  was  praised  highly 
by  Howells,  who  was  responsible  for  the  publication  of  some  of  DeForest's 
work  in  The  Atlantic,  but  the  book  is  crude  in  effecting  transitions  and 
gives  the  air  of  having  been  composed  by  a  man  who  was  not  taking 
himself  very  seriously.  It  contains,  nevertheless,  a  few  passages  of  ex- 
cellent psychological  analysis  but  continually  drifts  off  from  reality  to 
satire.  During  the  nineties,  after  an  interval  of  silence,  DeForest  responded 
to  the  prevalent  fashion  for  historical  romance  with  A  hover's  Revolt 
(1898),  a  tale  of  Revolutionary  times  in  Massachusetts.  Earlier,  he  had 
published  two  novels  dealing  with  politics  in  Washington,  Honest  ]ohn 
Vane  and  Playing  the  Mischief,  both  brought  out  in  book  form  in  1875. 
The  former  is  the  more  important,  a  story  which  runs  along  glibly  and 
pleasantly  but  keenly  satirizes  the  unscrupulousness  of  a  Congressman 
who  accepts  stock  in  the  "Hen  Persuader"— subsidiary  of  the  "Great 
Subfluvial"  which  plans  to  run  a  tunnel  from  the  Great  Lakes  to  the  Gulf 
of  Mexico.  One  finds  no  trouble  in  identifying  the  "Persuader"  with 
the  notorious  Credit  Mobilier  and  the  tunnel  with  the  transcontinental 
railroad,  whose  lobbyists  were  at  the  time  so  powerful  as  to  make 
DeForest  wonder  whether  it  was  possible  "for  a  democracy  to  save  itself 
from  the  corrupting  tyranny  of  capital."  While  the  author  is  serious 
enough  in  assigning  the  cause  of  the  venality  of  Congress  to  the  improper 
breeding  and  lack  of  education  of  its  members,  the  book  strikes  one  as 
more  playful  than  earnest.  Certainly  it  is  far  from  being  a  detailed  revela- 
tion of  political  methods  such  as  one  gets  in  Ellen  Glasgow's  The  Voice 
of  the  People  or  in  David  Graham  Phillips's  The  Plum  Tree;  yet  it  is 
probably  as  powerful  as  Henry  Adams's  Democracy,  with  which  it  may 
be  more  fairly  compared.  Throughout  his  life  DeForest  remained  a  kind 
of  literary  playboy,  and  Miss  Rav end's  Conversion  stands  alone  among 
his  novels  as  possessing  great  distinction.  Until  he  read  Tolstoi  as  a  result 
of  Howells's  enthusiastic  praise,  he  called  Manzoni's  /  Promessi  Sposi  his 
favorite  novel. 


In  the  history  of  American  letters  the  student  encounters  no  con- 
spicuous author  who  may  be  considered  today  as  a  realist  until  he  comes 
to  William  Dean  Howells  (1837-1920).  His  critical  dogmas  and  en- 
couragement of  younger  tradition-breakers,  as  well  as  his  own  fiction, 
made  of  him  the  very  center  of  the  realistic  movement  in  the  eighties. 
His  novels  never  obtained  the  popularity  of  that  of  a  score  of  contempo- 
rary romancers,  but  his  situs  in  the  magazine  world  was  so  strategic  and 
his  skill  so  dexterous  that  even  in  the  eyes  of  critics  who  despised  his 
theories  he  seemed  to  succeed  naturally  into  the  position  of  most  eminent 
living  author  after  the  older  school  had  passed  away.  During  the  first 


666  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

two  decades  of  the  present  century,  he  was  honored  as  the  Dean  of 
American  writers.  An  analysis  of  the  impression  made  by  him  on  the 
literary  scene  of  his  prime  has  been  given  us  by  Hamlin  Garland,  one 
of  his  disciples: 

During  the  summer  of   1885  Howells  became  the  subject  of  much  literary 

gossip.  It  was  reported  that  he  had  gone  over  to  Harper's He  was  recognized 

as  the  chief  American  realist.  His  "Modern  Instance,"  "Indian  Summer,"  "The 
Minister's  Charge,"  and  "Silas  Lapham"  were  valued  as  the  most  original  and 
highly  skilled  pieces  of  writing  America  had  known.  They  were  being  read 
aloud  in  thousands  of  home  circles,  and  clubs  and  social  gatherings  rang  with 
argument  as  to  whether  or  not  his  women  characters  could  be  found  in  New 
England  society.  It  was  agreed  that  his  men  existed,  but  their  wives  and 

daughters  were  woeful  exaggerations— according  to  his  critics His  opponents 

. . .  represented  him  as  a  ruthless,  intellectually  arrogant,  and  destructive  critic, 
a  personality  hard  to  reconcile  with  his  delightfully  humorous  and  graceful 
writing.  That  he  was  the  chief  figure  in  American  literature  was  indisputable 
even  by  those  who  disliked  his  fiction.4 

Of  the  multitude  of  self-educated  men  whose  accomplishments  loom 
large  in  retrospect  Howells  is  one  of  the  finest  examples.  He  attended 
the  elementary  schools  of  Ohio  but  at  the  age  of  nine  was  forced  by 
family  poverty  to  set  type  in  his  father's  printing  office,  and  his  studies 
were  later  directed  by  a  singular  group  of  guides  and  friends:  a  printer, 
an  organ-builder,  a  machinist,  a  drugstore  clerk,  and  a  bookbinder.  Never- 
theless, in  his  maturity  Harvard  offered  him  the  professorship  of  modern 
languages  which  had  been  held  by  Ticknor,  Longfellow,  and  Lowell;  and 
when  in  1882  he  refused  a  place  on  the  faculty  of  The  Johns  Hopkins 
University  he  could  write  with  honesty:  "I  have  a  literary  use  of  Spanish, 
French,  German,  and  Italian,  and  I  have  some  knowledge  of  the  literature 
and  the  literary  history  of  those  languages."  5  As  a  mere  stripling  he  de- 
cided that  literature  was  to  be  his  vocation  and  prudently  concluded  that 
one  who  desired  competence  as  a  belles-lettrist  should  not  glimpse  the 
art  through  the  one  lens  of  his  own  language.  His  early  reading,  as  de- 
scribed in  My  Literary  Passions  (1895),  ls  an  amazing  record  of  industry, 
common  sense,  and  ardor  such  as  few  men  have  equalled.  Like  Benjamin 
Franklin,  he  consciously  sought  as  a  boy  to  acquire  a  proper  style  of 
writing,  and  he  zealously  aped  the  couplets  of  Pope  or  the  mannerisms 
of  Goldsmith  and  Irving,  soon  forsaking  them,  however,  for  a  succession 
of  more  contemporary  masters  like  Longfellow,  Tennyson,  and  Heine, 
and,  in  prose,  Macaulay.  Beginning  with  Don  Quixote,  he  devoured  fic- 

4  Roadside  Meetings  (Copyright  1930,  by  Hamlin  Garland  and  used  with  the 
permission  of  The  Macmillan  Co.),  Chap.  VI,  "Meetings  with  Howells,"  pp.  55-56. 
Garland's  details  are  slightly  inaccurate  and  his  enthusiasm  needs  to  be  discounted, 
to  a  minor  extent. 

5  Life  in  Letters  of  William  Dean  Howells,  ed.  Mildred  Howells,  2  Vols.  (1928), 
Vol.  1,  p.  330.  (Cited  later  in  this  chapter  as  Howells,  Life.) 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  667 

tion  with  an  unending  appetite  and  put  himself  through  a  stiff  course  of 
reading  in  the  English  critics  and  in  A.  W.  Schlegel.  His  ambition  cen- 
tered on  poetry,  though  he  was  from  the  outset  what  he  called  a  "hope- 
lessly concrete  young  person."  After  ten  hours  at  the  printer's  desk,  he 
would  pick  up  his  books  for  study  and  then  top  the  day  off  by  writing 
in  his  diary,  which  he  kept  in  verse  as  well  as  prose.  His  first  publications, 
already  marked  by  simplicity  and  directness,  appeared  in  the  village  news- 
papers owned  by  his  father  for  which  he  also  set  type.  Between  1858 
and  1 86 1  he  acted  as  reporter,  exchange  editor,  and  then  editorial  writer 
on  the  Ohio  State  Journal,  the  chief  Republican  organ  of  central  Ohio. 
At  that  time,  he  began  to  contribute  verse  to  The  Saturday  Press,  as  well 
as  to  local  news-sheets,  and  managed  to  place  several  poems  with  The 
Atlantic  Monthly,  though  Lowell  held  up  publication  of  his  first  offering 
under  the  suspicion  that  it  was  a  mere  translation  from  Heine.  The  earliest 
of  the  Howells  volumes  also  appeared  in  1859,  with  the  Tennysonian 
title  Poems  of  Tvoo  Friends,  written  in  collaboration  with  another  young 
Ohio  journalist,  John  James  Piatt  (1835- 19 17).  Most  of  its  five  hundred 
copies,  the  usual  edition  of  verse  during  the  period,  fell  on  stony  ground 
and  served  merely  to  add  glamour  to  the  authors'  presence  at  the  literary 
parties  which  then  flourished  in  Columbus.  A  short  sketch  of  the  life  of 
Abraham  Lincoln,  fashioned  from  material  supplied  by  Republican  politi- 
cians, came  to  a  wider  audience  when  it  appeared  as  a  campaign  document 
in  The  Lives  and  Speeches  of  Abraham  Lincoln  and  Hannibal  Hamlin 
(i860)  and  resulted  in  his  appointment  as  a  consul  in  Venice.  The  aspiring 
poet  now  willingly  forsook  newspaper  work  and,  reading  all  the  Waverley 
novels  in  a  month,  set  sail  for  what  he  jocularly  called  four  years  of 
graduate  study  abroad. 

Those  years  of  light  duties  and  first  leisure  were  of  the  utmost  impor- 
tance to  the  youthful  consul,  who  soon  added  to  the  joys  of  studying 
Dante  and  Goldoni  the  bliss  of  marriage  and  first  parenthood.  And,  al- 
most unconsciously,  the  necessity  of  combining  his  literary  studies  with 
the  investigation  of  contemporary  Italian  life  guided  him  to  the  opinion 
that  an  author  would  do  well  to  use  as  a  basis  for  his  work  the  life  im- 
mediately surrounding  him.  In  this  impression  he  was  confirmed  by  the 
unsalability  of  his  musings  or  narratives  in  verse  and  by  the  greater  de- 
mand for  information  concerning  Venice.  A  series  of  articles  on  that 
city  which  he  wrote  for  the  Boston  Advertiser  were  shortly  embodied  in 
Venetian  Life  (1866),  which  met  with  immediate  success  and  long  after- 
wards continued  to  enjoy  popular  favor.  When  he  came  back  to  the 
United  States  and  assisted  in  editing  the  newly-established  Nation,  he 
continued  his  interest  in  Italy  in  another  series  of  travel  sketches  which 
resulted  in  Italian  Journeys  (1867),  and,  later,  produced  more  work  of  the 
same  kind.  In  several  of  his  novels,  particularly  the  earlier  ones,  Howells 
was  also  to  benefit  by  his  knowledge  of  Italy;  and  his  familiarity  with  its 


668  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

literature  resulted  in  lectures,  articles,  and  one  book,  Modem  Italian 
Poets:  Essays  and  Versions  (1887),  at  the  time  of  its  publication  the  only 
useful  work  existing  in  English  on  Italian  poetry  of  the  century  prior 
to  1870.6 

Upon  his  return  home  he  failed  to  find  a  suitable  opportunity  to  settle 
into  the  more  lucrative  editorship  of  a  paper,  and,  soon  after  he  had  oc- 
cupied his  position  with  The  Nation,  accepted  an  appointment  as  assistant 
to  James  T.  Fields,  the  editor  of  The  Atlantic  Monthly.  Here  was  an  op- 
portunity to  go  to  the  very  fount  of  the  American  muses  and  to  associate 
himself  with  the  publishers  who  had  on  their  list  the  most  respected  poets 
of  the  country.  From  1866  to  1881  he  was  active  in  the  management  of 
The  Atlantic  and  after  July,  1871,  was  the  editor-in-chief.  At  first  he 
read  proofs,  corrected  manuscript,  and  prepared  most  of  the  critical 
notices;  but  his  appetite  for  work  was  insatiable  and  he  kept  on  with  his 
own  verse,  ventured  into  sketches  and  short  stories,  and  in  1871  serialized 
Their  Wedding  Journey,  his  first  novel.  In  Cambridge,  where  he  bought 
a  house,  he  walked  with  Lowell,  endeared  himself  to  Holmes,  and  joined 
with  the  select  group  of  Italianate  Americans  who  assembled  weekly  in 
Longfellow's  home  to  hear  the  poet  read  the  proof  sheets  of  his  transla- 
tion of  The  Divine  Comedy.  With  Whittier,  Emerson,  and  Mrs.  Stowe 
he  was  constantly  discussing  proofs,  and  when  Bret  Harte  came  East, 
Howells  paid  off  his  many  social  obligations  by  using  the  Western  lion  as 
the  attraction  for  a  resplendent  party.  With  three  of  the  younger  literary 
men  who  also  moved  to  New  England  he  fostered  a  warm  friendship 
that  was  never  outlived— Mark  Twain,  Aldrich,  and  Henry  James.  To 
Clemens  he  managed  to  be  of  great  service  as  a  literary  adviser  and  col- 
laborator, and  James  owed  him  an  almost  constant  debt  for  help  in  getting 
the  magazines  to  publish  his  work.  Howells  was  probably  the  first  im- 
portant critic  to  treat  Mark  Twain  as  an  author  of  serious  literary  conse- 
quence and  from  the  beginning  put  in  his  word  for  the  artistry  of  James. 
As  early  as  1866  he  wrote  of  the  latter:  "He  is  a  very  earnest  fellow,  and 
I  think  extremely  gifted— gifted  enough  to  do  better  than  any  one  has 
yet  done  toward  making  us  a  real  American  novel";  but  he  also  con- 
fided, "I  suspect  that  he  must  in  a  great  degree  create  his  audience"  7— a 
wise  prophecy  indeed. 

Howells's  transition  from  poet  to  novelist  was  made  through  the 
literature  of  travel  and  description,  and  is  best  seen  in  the  collection  of 
short  pieces  called  Suburban  Sketches  (1870).  In  some  of  these  studies 
one  sees  his  work  at  a  midway  stage  between  the  descriptive  writing  of 
the  travel  books  and  the  narrative  of  his  early  novels.  They  are  faithful 

6  The  only  thorough  study  of  Howells's  interest  in  Italy  is  James  L.  Woodress, 
"The  Italian  Phase  of  William  Dean  Howells,"  unpublished  dissertation,  Duke 
University,  1949. 

7  Howells,  Life,  Vol.  1,  pp.  116,  118. 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  669 

presentations  of  scenes  and  people  in  Cambridge  and  Boston  during  the 
days  of  the  cheerful  kerosene  lamps— a  Negro  cook,  Italian  harp  players 
and  chestnut  venders,  war  veterans  seeking  jobs,  a  trip  by  horsecar  from 
Cambridge  to  Boston,  and  even  an  abandoned  railroad  where  the  purple- 
topped  ironweed,  as  well  as  empty  tomato  cans,  added  to  "the  grace  that 
belongs  to  all  ruin."  At  times  Howells  is  attitudinizing  over  his  humble 
material  in  the  fashion  of  Irving  or  Thackeray,  but  he  displays  the  clever 
prose  and  the  kind  of  subject  matter  which  were  shortly  to  become  char- 
acteristic. The  short  story  "A  Romance  of  Real  Life"  proves  that  he  was 
not  yet  a  master  of  the  art  of  constructing  a  tale,  and  the  ending  seems 
to  have  caught  him  in  a  trap.8  Their  Wedding  Journey  was  an  improve- 
ment over  these  sketches  but  still  betrays  the  shaky  hand  of  the  apprentice, 
though  its  picaresque  form  obscures  some  of  the  structural  ineptness. 
It  is  almost  completely  autobiographical— an  account  of  a  delayed  trip 
to  Niagara  Falls  and  Canada  which  the  Howellses  had  taken  during  the 
summer  before  it  was  written.  The  names  of  the  chief  characters,  Basil 
and  Isabel  March,  were  destined  to  appear  again  and  again  in  later  novels 
when  the  author  had  occasion  to  use  himself  and  his  wife  for  fictional 
purposes,  and  subsequent  summer  vacations  were  to  supply  him  with 
the  background  for  many  a  future  story. 

During  the  seventies  he  continued  to  write  novels,  plays,  sketches, 
criticisms,  and  a  few  short  stories,  and  the  longer  fictions  show  a  rather 
uneven  improvement  in  the  mastery  of  form.  He  early  established  the 
method  of  simplifying  technical  difficulties  by  using  only  a  few  char- 
acters and  removing  them  from  their  wonted  milieu  through  the  agency 
of  travel.  In  A  Chance  Acquaintance  (1873)  he  fashioned  a  love  story 
involving  a  trip  to  Quebec  but  in  A  Foregone  Conclusion  (1874)  and 
The  Lady  of  The  Aroostook  (1879)  took  his  lovers  to  Italy.  The  boy- 
meets-girl  plots  which  of  necessity  occupied  so  much  of  the  foreground 
in  these  tales  seem  incredibly  naive  or  absolutely  impossible  to  the 
sophisticated  reader  today,  and  the  motivation  at  times  may  be  heard 
creaking;  but,  in  the  main,  objectivity  rather  than  idealization  dominates 
in  the  character  portrayal.  To  the  critics  of  the  time,  however,  Howells 
seemed  almost  scientific  in  his  objectivity,  and  the  insights  into  psy- 
chology which  he  displayed  were  rather  advanced  for  the  day.  "Clever" 
was  the  word  used  to  describe  him,  and  compared  with  most  of  his 
contemporaries  no  doubt  he  was.  Before  long  he  was  coupled  in  the  eyes 
of  the  critics  with  Henry  James,  and  there  was  much  talk  of  the  two 
young  writers  as  leaders  in  the  domain  of  the  "novel  of  analysis."  Toward 
the  middle  of  the  seventies  Howells  became  enthusiastic  over  a  new 
master  who  was  to  do  much  in  furnishing  an  expert  example  in  the 

8  The  difficulty  with  endings  and  with  invention  continued  to  bother  Howells  for 
a  long  time.  He  recalled  the  difficulties  in  Imaginary  Interviews  (New  York  and 
London,  1910),  pp.  287-288,  318. 


67o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

handling  of  structure,  namely,  Turgenev,  whose  method  he  later  de- 
scribed as  the  ultimate  in  the  art  of  fiction.  The  dramatic  practice  of 
leaving  the  characters  to  transact  their  own  business  with  little  com- 
mentary from  the  author  and  the  resulting  emphasis  upon  conversation 
were  to  engross  him  thereafter.  He  had  already  conceived  of  the  pos- 
sibility of  the  method  from  reading  Bjornson  9  and  had  been  introduced 
to  the  work  of  Balzac  and  Flaubert  by  Henry  James,  who  himself  had 
learned  about  French  realism  from  John  La  Farge;  but,  as  Howells  ex- 
plained to  Professor  Quinn,  he  was  "authorized  rather  than  inspired  by 
the  Frenchmen."  10  Unlike  most  of  the  nineteenth-century  realists  who 
wrote  in  English,  he  was  more  obligated  to  the  Russians;  and,  because 
of  their  superiority  as  humorists,  he  preferred  the  novels  of  Palacio 
Valdes  and  Perez  Galdos  to  those  of  most  of  the  authors  of  France. 

The  advance  of  the  art  of  fiction  in  Howells's  novels  was  handicapped 
by  a  preoccupation  with  editorial  duties,  and  it  was  not  until  he  had 
resigned  from  The  Atlantic  that  he  showed  his  gifts  to  fuller  advantage. 
Meanwhile,  he  had  conceived  a  method  of  suggesting  rather  than  elabo- 
rating the  happy  ending  which  was  requisite  for  successful  magazine 
fiction,  and  this  fact  is  illustrated  in  the  short  novel  entitled  A  Fearful 
Responsibility  (1881),  another  love  story  with  an  Italian  setting.  It  was 
not  until  the  publication  of  A  Modern  Instance  (1882)  that  he  wrote  a 
novel  as  full  of  meat  as  Miss  RaveneVs  Conversion,  and  with  that  work  he 
may  be  said  to  have  established  a  permanent  claim  upon  posterity.  The 
book  cost  him  "nearly  twice  the  labor"  of  anything  he  had  previously 
written  and  shows  the  results  in  more  careful  motivation  and  in  superior 
character  analysis.  It  is  the  first  of  his  several  novels  in  which  an  im- 
portant element  consists  of  a  study  of  a  degenerating  character.  In  this 
case,  the  unheroic  hero  is  a  small-town  printer  who  becomes  a  success- 
ful journalist  in  Boston  but  gradually  goes  to  pieces  under  the  influence 
of  his  own  weak  nature,  deserts  his  somewhat  silly  wife,  and  eventually 
is  killed  in  Arizona.  A  Modern  Instance  was  first  serialized  in  The  Cen- 
tury, and  after  its  publication  Howells  was  able  to  contract  for  his  work 
by  submitting  an  outline  of  a  projected  story.  He  had  leaned  over  back- 
ward as  editor  of  The  Atlantic  to  make  his  own  fiction  conform  to  the 
established  conventions,  and  now  he  was  a  bit  freer  to  do  what  he  chose; 
but  his  freedom  never  pushed  a  nose  against  the  fence  of  the  law. 

In  the  eleven  volumes  of  fiction  which  he  published  during  the  eighties, 
he  followed  contemporary  interests  to  a  very  considerable  extent: 
spiritism  in  The  Undiscovered  Country  (1880),  the  problems  besetting  a 
woman  who  ventured  to  become  a  physician  in  Doctor  Breeifs  Practice 
( 1 88 1 ),  and,  in  The  Rise  of  Silas  Lapham  (1885),  the  career  of  the  newly 

9  My  Literary  Passions  (1895),  p.  230.  For  Howells's  opinions  on  Turgenev  see 
Royal  A.  Gettmann,  Turgenev  in  England  and  America  (Urbana,  111.,  1941),  pp.  51-61. 

10  American  Fiction  ([1936 1),  p.  258. 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  671 

rich  whose  intellectual  and  social  rearing  was  unequal  to  the  position 
suddenly  thrust  upon  them  by  fortune.  The  last-mentioned  novel  is 
commonly  regarded  as  his  masterpiece,  an  opinion  in  which  Howells 
himself  at  times  concurred.  It  is  the  earliest  of  our  important  studies  of  a 
self-made  businessman— a  sympathetic  portrait,  with  little  satire,  of  a 
plain  and  crude  New  Englander  who  fares  so  well  with  the  manufacture 
of  paint  that  he  is  at  length  able  to  establish  himself  in  an  exclusive  section 
of  Boston  and  marry  one  of  his  daughters  to  an  aristocrat.  In  the  end  he 
loses  his  fortune  but  not  his  self-respect.  Upon  recommending  it  to  a 
French  publisher,  Taine  called  Silas  Lapham  the  chief  American  novel, 
che  nearest  to  the  work  of  Balzac.  More  recently,  the  seeming  silliness  of 
the  ancillary  love  story  has  detracted  from  the  high  position  which  the 
novel  occupied  during  the  nineteenth  century.  The  work  which  followed 
next,  one  of  the  best  of  Howells's  longer  novels  in  structure,  was  Indian 
Summer  (1886),  primarily  a  love  story,  again  with  a  setting  in  Italy.  It 
is  centered  about  a  small  circle  of  characters  and  shows  at  their  height 
the  subtle  insights  into  psychology  and  manners  which  helped  to  give 
its  author  the  reputation  that  he  came  to  enjoy  among  the  readers  of 
more  intellectual  fiction  of  the  day.  For  some  strange  reason,  Indian 
Summer  is  not  as  well  known  as  it  should  be. 

But,  about  the  time  of  his  writing  this  superbly  constructed  tale,  he 
became  convinced  that  art  was  subordinate  to  the  duties  of  life  and  from 
time  to  time  thereafter  sought  to  encompass  a  broader  picture  of  the 
contemporary  scene  in  which  there  was  more  opportunity  for  the  con- 
sideration of  social  values.  In  this  newly  awakened  mood  he  turned  to 
Tolstoi,  who  became  his  last  great  literary  "passion,"  and  soon  described 
himself  as  a  "parlor  socialist."  In  1887  Howells  proved  himself  a  daring 
opponent  of  public  opinion  by  writing  a  letter  to  the  New  York  Tribune, 
urging  clemency  to  the  anarchists  who  had  been  sentenced  to  death  or 
imprisonment  for  their  alleged  part  in  the  "Haymarket  Massacre"  in 
Chicago.  In  so  doing  he  believed  that  he  placed  in  jeopardy  not  only  his 
reputation  but  his  livelihood.  The  novel  which  first  shows  clearly  his 
stimulated  sense  of  the  responsibility  of  the  individual  to  society,  The 
Minister 's  Charge  (1886),  is  not  one  of  his  best.  The  difficulties  of  in- 
sinuating social  protest  were  great,  for  Howells  refused  to  write  novels 
of  purpose,  believing  that  they  were  inartistic,  and  objectivity  was  to 
him  the  chief  virtue  of  all.  Accordingly,  his  views  had  to  be  introduced 
through  characters  who  might  naturally  hold  them,  and  he  was  often  at 
a  loss  to  make  them  seem  real.  Moreover,  his  female  readers  demanded 
love  stories,  though  he  himself  had  a  diminishing  sympathy  with  mere 
lovers  and  in  1892  expressed  the  determination  never  again  to  write  an- 
other novel  in  which  "mating  and  marrying  plays  an  important  part." 
But  he  did— many  of  them.  As  is  the  case  with  the  work  of  Henry  James, 
each  of  Howells's  novels  represents  an  experiment  with  the  material  which 


672  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

he  had  set  for  himself,  and  the  line  of  his  development  in  form  or  in 
subject  matter  is  somewhat  irregular. 

Also  interfering  with  any  singleness  of  purpose  and  method  was  the 
fact  that  Howells  once  again  assumed  an  editorial  connection  with  a 
magazine.  Upon  the  failure  of  the  Boston  firm  which  published  his  books, 
he  contracted  with  Harpers  in  New  York  for  his  output,  believing  at  the 
time  that  he  would  produce  only  fiction.  But  the  precariousness  of  the 
free-lance  situation  soon  induced  him  to  take  charge  of  the  "Editor's 
Study"  department  of  Harper's  Magazine,  which  required  a  monthly 
essay  from  his  pen  from  January,  1886  to  March,  1892.  And  in  1900  he 
began  writing  the  "Easy  Chair"  screeds,  which  continued  to  occupy  him 
until  he  died.  Furthermore,  he  turned  out  a  large  mass  of  miscellaneous 
writing  for  various  other  periodicals  owned  by  the  House  of  Harper, 
and  in  1891,  for  a  few  months,  also  edited  The  Cosmopolitan  Magazine, 
in  which  he  hoped  in  vain  to  have  full  charge  of  the  literary  content  and 
"to  do  something  for  humanity  as  well  as  the  humanities."  Articles  and 
reviews  galore,  more  plays,  more  poems,  more  short  stories,  more  travel 
books,  and  newer  attempts  in  the  field  of  reminiscence  and  autobiography 
issued  in  a  steady  stream  in  his  neat  and  facile  style,  as  well  as  novel 
after  novel.  One  stands  in  awe  at  the  sheer  bulk  of  the  man's  work,  com- 
pared with  which  the  proliflcness  of  Hans  Sachs  or  Lope  de  Vega  seems 
ordinary.  The  reason  for  the  mass  is  economic.  Not  once  did  Howells 
strike  into  the  best-seller  class,  and  the  scale  of  living  which  the  age 
demanded  of  a  family  of  his  sort— trips  to  Europe,  a  summer  home  in 
Maine— was  such  that  ample  funds  were  needed. 

Probably  the  most  immediately  successful  of  his  novels  as  a  book  was 
A  Hazard  of  New  Fortunes  (1889),  a  comprehensive  picture  of  the 
reaction  of  various  elements  of  American  society  to  a  strike.  At  the  time 
it  seemed  so  bold  as  to  be  shocking,  though  Howells  kept  his  objective 
equilibrium  unperturbed.  Incidentally,  this  novel  depicted  the  difficulties 
of  finding  a  place  of  residence  in  New  York,  a  matter  of  keen  personal 
interest,  for  the  author  himself  had  settled  in  that  city,  which  was  there- 
after to  be  his  home.  In  the  comparative  looseness  of  form  which  char- 
acterizes the  book,  Howells  undoubtedly  was  enabled  to  present  his 
problem  more  fully,  but  in  later  works  he  frequently  returned  to  the 
well-made  pattern,  and  in  Letters  Home  (1903)  demonstrated  how  a 
modern  master  of  fictional  technique  could  take  the  old  epistolary  form 
of  Richardson  and  use  it  for  a  realistic  comedy  of  manners.  Also  demon- 
strative of  technical  virtuosity  is  The  Shadow  of  a  Dream  (1890),  one 
of  its  author's  rare  incursions  into  the  field  of  abnormal  psychology. 

Among  the  more  appealing  works  of  his  later  days  one  might  also 
mention  The  Quality  of  Mercy  (1892),  similar  in  form  to  A  Hazard  of 
New  Fortunes,  and  representing  the  reaction  of  a  varied  group  of  people 
to  a  defaulting  capitalist.  Superior  also  are  The  So?i  of  Royal  Langbrith 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  673 

(1904),  a  study  of  a  young  man  who  is  profoundly  disillusioned  when 
he  becomes  aware  of  the  true  nature  of  his  deceased  father;  and  The 
Leatherivood  God  (19 16),  a  seemingly  romantic  tale  of  a  religious  faker 
who  palms  himself  off  on  a  village  of  the  Leatherwood  district  of  Ohio 
as  God  Almighty  and  proceeds  to  select  a  group  of  Apostles.  One  might 
imagine  from  the  nature  of  the  plot  that  the  octogenarian  Howells  had 
weakened  to  the  point  of  kicking  over  his  doctrine  of  using  the  life  about 
him,  if  it  were  not  for  the  fact  that  the  entire  episode  was  of  historical 
record  and  in  essentials  as  true  as  anything  he  ever  wrote.  Last  composed 
of  his  novels,  the  tale  is  probably  the  best  ever  written  about  early  pioneer 
days  of  Ohio. 

Ever  mindful  that  novels  should  not  preach,  Howells,  nevertheless,  lost 
few  occasions  in  his  later  days  to  criticize  the  capitalist  regime  when  he 
could  properly  do  so.  When  the  panic  of  1893  was  under  way  he  cannily 
serialized  a  couple  of  ventures  into  pure  romance,  A  Traveler  from 
Altruria  (1894)  an^  the  first  part  of  Through  the  Eye  of  the  Needle 
(1907),  the  latter  published  in  book  form  at  a  time  when  the  muckraking 
movement  had  once  again  presented  an  opportunity  for  a  hearing.11  In 
the  former,  Mr.  Homos  from  Altruria  penetrates  into  the  shortcomings 
of  American  life  by  the  inquiries  which  he  institutes  when  visiting  this 
country;  and  in  the  final  portion  of  the  latter  the  American  lady  whom 
he  marries  writes  back  to  describe  the  happiness  of  the  beautiful  isle  of 
nowhere,  on  which  the  inhabitants  work  only  three  hours  a  day  at  their 
"obligatories"  and  social  bliss  reigns  undisturbed.  In  1888  Howells  ex- 
pressed objections  to  the  "single  tax"  panacea,  thinking  that  it  did  not  go 
far  enough,  for  he  favored  "national  control  of  telegraphs,  railways, 
and  mines,  postal  savings-bank-and-life-insurance,  a  national  labor  bureau 
for  bringing  work  and  workmen  together"  and  the  assurance  of  the  food 
and  shelter  "which  the  gift  of  life  implies  the  right  to."  12  In  the  eighties 
and  the  years  following,  he  read  widely  in  the  socialist  authors  of  the 
day.  The  most  influential  upon  him  was  probably  Laurence  Gronlund 
(1846-99),  an  adapter  of  German  theories.  As  for  the  method  of  bringing 
about  a  more  ideal  society,  Howells  was  consistent  in  advocating  nothing 
more  violent  than  the  use  of  the  ballot.13 

His  uneventful  later  years  were  marked  by  the  same  industry,  common 
sense,  and  ardor  that  had  characterized  his  youth,  and  his  command 
of  style  remained  unimpaired  almost  to  the   end.   The   honors   which 

11  A  number  of  articles  on  social  and  economic  problems  should  also  be  mentioned, 
for  example,  "Are  We  a  Plutocracy?"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  158  (Feb.,  1894),  pp. 
185-196. 

12  Howells,  Life,  Vol.  1,  p.  408. 

13  The  best  discussion  of  Howells's  economic  sources  is  George  W.  Arms,  "The 
Literary  Background  of  Howells's  Social  Criticism,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  14  (Nov.  1942), 
pp.  260-276.  See  also  Walter  F.  Taylor,  The  Economic  Novel  in  America  (1942), 
Chap.  VI. 


674  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

came  to  him  in  his  old  age— medals,  degrees  from  colleges,  the  first  presi- 
dency of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Letters,  a  fellowship  in  the 
Royal  Society  of  Literature— left  his  staunch  modesty  untouched.  Follow- 
ing the  example  of  Longfellow,  he  refused  the  Order  of  Leopold  from 
the  King  of  the  Belgians,  on  the  ground  that  a  citizen  of  a  republic  should 
accept  no  monarchical  decoration.  Though  he  detested  the  "dirt"  of 
naturalism,  he  encouraged  many  of  the  younger  realists  and  helped  to 
gain  them  a  hearing,  just  as  in  earlier  years  he  had  done  the  same  thing 
for  DeForest,  James,  Howe,  Garland,  Norris,  and  Crane.  The  number  of 
other  writers  whom  he  went  out  of  his  way  to  help  was  legion.  At  the 
time  of  his  death  he  was  at  work  on  two  essays  on  Henry  James,  and  his 
last  thoughts  for  publication  dwelt  on  the  old  days  in  the  sixties  when 
the  two  men  walked  out  to  Fresh  Pond  in  Cambridge,  where  people 
skated  in  winter  and  bathed  in  summer  and  the  surrounding  area  was  a 
straggling  woods. 

Though  in  i860  Howells  intended  uto  give  all  time  and  all  eternity  to 
poetry,'1  he  found  little  incentive  to  continue  with  it  after  the  early 
seventies.  His  Poems  (1886)  contained  only  four  more  efforts  in  verse 
than  had  appeared  in  the  1873  edition  of  the  same  title,  and  at  least  two 
of  these  had  been  composed  in  Venice.  Many  of  the  shorter  lyrics  therein 
echo  the  melancholy  of  Heine,  and  most  of  the  longer  narratives  are 
attempts  in  dactylic  hexameter,  a  metre  which  he  had  learned  to  love 
as  a  result  of  his  devotion  to  the  "divine"  Longfellow,  foremost  among 
American  authors  in  his  galaxy  of  "literary  passions."  Some  of  the  nar- 
ratives have  native  subjects,  like  "The  Pilot's  Story,"  most  popular  of 
his  poems,  a  tale  of  an  octoroon  sold  by  her  husband-master  after  he 
loses  at  gambling  on  a  river  boat,  or  like  "Louis  Lebeau's  Conversion,"  a 
legend  of  a  boatman  of  the  older  days  in  the  Midwest.  Other  narratives 
have  an  Italian  setting,  and  of  these  the  best  is  No  Love  Lost:  A  Romance 
of  Travel,  separately  published  as  a  book  in  1868.  It  describes  a  mildly 
complicated  love  affair  among  Americans  in  the  Venice  of  1862  and  is 
told  through  the  letters  of  the  chief  characters-in  dactyls!  The  metre 
at  times  becomes  sadly  prosy,  but  the  first  part  of  the  romance  is  filled 
with  a  warmth  highly  unusual  in  its  author.  Strength  of  feeling  is  better 
shown,  however,  in  the  lyric  written  in  Venice  on  the  death  of  his 
brother,  "Elegy  on  John  Butler  Howells,"  the  sincerest  of  his  efforts  and, 
despite  a  weak  ending  and  a  bit  of  Emersonian  imitation,  the  best  of  his 
earlier  poems.  One  must  confess  an  inability  to  wax  enthusiastic  over 
Howells's  verse,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  to  the  readers  of 
1870  he  seemed  as  promising  a  poet  as  Aldrich  or  Stedman. 

In  1895  Howells  came  out  with  a  slim  volume  of  new  verse,  Stops  of 
Various  Quills,  containing  rhymed  thoughts  on  "Life,"  "Heredity," 
"Labor  and  Capital,"  and  other  topics,  including  "Statistics."  The  collec- 
tion is  of  utmost  importance  in  showing  the  direction  of  his  contempla- 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  675 

tions  and  is  marked  by  a  mood  of  almost  pessimistic  reflection  over  a 
world  in  a  rather  tragic  plight.  Life  now  appears  as  a  "blind  alley,  lurking 
by  the  shores  of  stagnant  ditches,  walled  with  reeking  crags";  and  evil 
and  poverty  seem  to  have  been  in  the  foreground  of  his  consciousness. 
He  had  long  before  outgrown  the  Swedenborgian  faith  of  his  father  and 
settled  into  a  kind  of  Unitarianism  in  which  he  was  still  unhappy  because 
of  doubts  raised  b'y  scientific  theory  and  the  observation  of  social  in- 
justice. Not  especially  profound,  and  certainly  not  very  poetical,  Stops 
of  Various  Quills  is  important  chiefly  as  another  indication  of  the  un- 
easiness and  sadness  of  many  sensitive  intellects  of  the  time.  Howells 
appears  to  have  been  close  to  a  deterministic  idea  in  the  verses  on  "Hered- 
ity,1'  in  which  he  averred: 

I  do  not  hold  you  aught  to  blame 
For  sin  at  second  hand,  and  shame: 
Evil  could  but  from  evil  spring, 
And  yet,  away,  you  charnel  thing! 

Likewise  tragic  in  tone  is  The  Mother  and  the  Father:  Dramatic  Fas- 
sages  (1909),  in  which  appear  dialogues  disclosing  the  thoughts  of  parents 
on  the  birth,  the  wedding,  and,  especially,  the  death  of  a  child.  Bleak, 
but  based  upon  genuine  feeling,  the  over-syllabled  lines  lapse  from 
baldness  and  harshness  into  prose,  for  the  embodiment  in  literature  of 
powerful  emotion  was  not  one  of  the  author's  gifts.  Also  prosy  are  a 
number  of  narratives  in  light  vein  gathered  up  in  The  Daughter  of  the 
Storage  and  Other  Things  in  Prose  and  Verse  (191 6),  one  of  which  is  an 
eclogue  of  1902  representing  a  long-distance  dialogue  over  the  telephone. 

The  several  travel  books  of  Howells's  maturity  need  not  detain  us 
here,  and  a  discussion  of  his  plays  will  be  found  in  a  subsequent  chapter 
dealing  with  the  drama;  but  his  volumes  of  recollection  deserve  a  word 
not  only  because  of  their  valuable  critical  content  but  also  because  of 
their  worth  as  history.  A  few,  like  A  Boy's  Tow?i  (1890),  meant  to  be  a 
juvenile,  My  Year  in  a  Log  Cabin  (1893),  anc*  Years  of  My  Youth  (1916), 
supply  a  unique  picture  of  the  Ohio  background.  My  Literary  Passions 
(1895),  Literary  Friends  and  Acquaintance  (1900),  and  My  Mark  Twain 
(19 10)  are  essential  to  the  record  of  American  literature.  The  first  of 
these  latter  is  the  most  adequate  discussion  by  any  American  of  the 
writers  who  influenced  him,  and,  of  course,  must  be  read  by  all  serious 
students  of  the  author.  The  second  provides  the  only  satisfactory  first- 
hand picture  of  Lowell  and  Longfellow  in  old  age,  as  well  as  accurate 
glimpses  of  numerous  other  men  and  women  whose  literary  activity 
touched  upon  that  of  Howells  during  the  middle  of  his  life.  The  last  is 
one  of  the  best  sources  for  an  understanding  of  the  personality  of  Mark 
Twain,  and  makes  the  reader  regret  that  Howells  never  carried  out  his 
plan  to  write  a  similar  book  on  Henry  James. 


676  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

But  next  to  his  importance  as  a  novelist  is  Howells's  significance  as  a 
critic.  His  literary  doctrines  constitute  probably  the  first  consistent  and 
invariable  theory  of  realism  expounded  in  America,  and,  indeed,  anticipate 
much  of  the  discussion  which  came  in  England  at  the  end  of  the  century 
or  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth.  Many  of  his  reviews  and  critical 
articles,  on  James,  Emily  Dickinson,  Garland,  and  the  Negro  Dunbar— and 
an  imposing  list  of  others  equally  varied— are  still  regarded  as  valuable 
commentary;  and  his  efforts  to  create  a  vogue  for  Continental  realism, 
especially  that  of  Russia  and  Spain,  were  perhaps  the  most  influential 
among  Americans  of  his  generation.  The  subject  matter  of  Zola  was  to 
him  often  abhorrent,  but  he  nevertheless  championed  the  Frenchman  as 
outmatched  in  mastery  by  only  one  novelist— Tolstoi,  and  enraged  the 
Philistines  by  maintaining  that  his  works  were  "infinitely  more  moral  than 
the  books  of  any  other  French  novelist."  14  Howells  was  one  of  the  notable 
pioneers  using  the  English  language  who  early  approved  of  Turgenev, 
Tolstoi,  Bjornson,  and  Ibsen,  and  led  all  the  rest  in  calling  attention  to 
the  merits  of  Palacio  Valdes,  Perez  Galdos,  and  Verga.  Constantly,  he 
annoyed  British  critics  by  asserting  his  belief  that,  with  the  notable  ex- 
ceptions of  Jane  Austen,  Trollope,  and  Hardy,  their  country  had  no 
novelists  worthy  the  attention  of  an  adult  who  wished  his  fiction  to 
represent  actual  life;  and  he  loosed  a  storm  of  opposition  on  two  continents 
when  he  calmly  disparaged  the  popular  idols  in  favor  of  the  masters  of 
the  well-made  novel.  Interestingly  enough,  the  tempest  first  broke  out 
as  a  result  of  an  article  on  Henry  James,  published  in  The  Century  for 
November,  1882,  in  which  he  observed: 

The  art  of  fiction  has . . .  become  a  finer  art  in  our  day  than  it  was  with 
Dickens  and  Thackeray.  We  could  not  suffer  the  confidential  attitude  of  the 
latter  now,  nor  the  mannerism  of  the  former,  any  more  than  we  could  endure 
the  prolixity  of  Richardson  or  the  coarseness  of  Fielding.  These  great  men 
are  of  the  past— they  and  their  methods  and  interests;  even  Trollope  and  Reade 
are  not  of  the  present.  The  new  school  derives  from  Hawthorne  and  George 
Eliot  rather  than  any  others;  but  it  studies  human  nature  much  more  in  its 
wonted  aspects,  and  finds  its  ethical  and  dramatic  examples  in  the  operation 
of  lighter  but  not  less  vital  motives.  The  moving  accident  is  certainly  not  its 
trade;  and  it  prefers  to  avoid  all  manner  of  dire  catastrophes.  It  is  largely 
influenced  by  French  fiction  in  form;  but  it  is  the  realism  of  Daudet  rather 
than  the  realism  of  Zola  that  prevails  with  it. . . . 

The  best  of  Howells's  criticism  is  to  be  found  in  My  Literary  Passio?is, 
the  two  volumes  of  Heroines  of  Fiction  ( 1 90 1 ) —though  this  work  is  in 
a  more  popular  vein  than  much  else— and  Criticism  and  Fiction  (1891). 
Important  essays,  however,  are  scattered  in  various  other  volumes,  such 
as  Literature  and  Life  (1902),  and  some  have  never  been  collected.  As 
originally  published  in  the  magazines,  his  opinions  received  a  wide  hearing 

14  My  Literary  Passions,  p.  246. 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  677 

in  both  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain,  and  the  bulk  of  his  critical 
work  is,  once  again,  prodigious.  The  fundamentals  of  his  doctrines  are 
based  upon  his  own  practice,  as  is  so  often  the  case  with  a  critic  who  is 
also  a  creative  artist.  They  are  readily  derived  from  a  reading  of  the 
slightly  disjointed  Criticism  and  Fiction— a  selection  from  the  essays  pub- 
lished in  the  "Editor's  Study"  of  Harper's  Magazine.  In  this  book,  as  in 
all  the  critical  writing  of  his  maturity,  Howells  is  eminently  pragmatic 
and  indisputably  American.  One  may  smile  today  at  his  squirming  efforts 
to  rationalize  the  mores  of  his  epoch  in  regard  to  the  undesirability  of 
treating  sexual  passion  in  fiction,  and  his  argument  that  a  "scientific 
decorum"  induces  a  modern  reticence  seems  as  naive  as  his  further  con- 
tention that  sexual  matters  occupy  so  insignificant  a  portion  of  actual 
life  that  they  should  not  be  made  central.  But  one  must  admit  that,  in 
general,  Howells's  ideas  on  the  problems  of  criticism  or  of  fiction  are 
extremely  practical. 

A  democratic  slant  of  his  doctrines  is  manifest  in  his  agreement  with 
Burke  that  the  "true  standard  of  the  arts  is  in  every  man's  power";  and 
he  genially  accepts  the  fact,  rubbed  in  by  Matthew  Arnold,  that  our 
country  represents  a  mixture  of  the  plebeian  elements  of  the  world, 
adding,  "That  is  not  bad;  our  vulgarity  consists  in  trying  to  ignore  'the 
worth  of  the  vulgar,'  in  believing  that  the  superfine  is  better."  Like 
1  Whitman,  he  identifies  his  own  critical  gospel  with  democracy  in  litera- 
ture, maintaining  that  the  latter  wishes  "to  know  and  to  tell  the  truth. . . . 
The  arts  must  become  democratic,  and  then  we  shall  have  the  expression 
of  America  in  art."  15  The  doctrine  of  art  for  art's  sake  he  impugned  as 
one  of  the  last  refuges  of  the  aristocratic  spirit,  and  he  scorned  the  kind 
of  esotericism  in  verse  which  now  seems  to  be  regnant: 

I  think  it  a  thousand  pities  whenever  an  artist  gets  so  far  away  from  the  general, 
so  far  within  himself  or  a  little  circle  of  amateurs,  that  his  highest  and  best 

work  awakens  no  response  in  the  multitude We  talk,   for  instance,   of 

poetry  for  poets,  and  we  fondly  imagine  that  this  is  different  from  talking  of 
cookery  for  cooks.  Poetry  is  not  made  for  poets;  they  have  enough  poetry  of 
their  own,  but  it  is  made  for  people  who  are  not  poets.  If  it  does  not  please 
these,  it  may  still  be  poetry,  but  it  is  poetry  which  has  failed  of  its  truest 
office.  It  is  none  the  less  its  truest  office  because  some  very  wretched  verse 
seems  often  to  do  it.16 

Though  he  was  himself  no  expert  in  dialect,  he  praised  the  liberal  use 
of  "our  different  local  parlances"  and  on  the  subject  of  nationality  in 
literature  pronounced  the  ultimate  in  good  sense:  "In  fine,  I  would  have 
our  American  novelists  be  as  American  as  they  unconsciously  can."  17 

15  Criticism  and  Fiction  (1891),  pp.  187,  140. 

16  "The  What  and  the  How  in  Art,"  Literature  and  Life  (1902),  pp.  287,  288. 

17  Criticism  and  Fiction,  pp.  134,  138. 


678  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

As  for  realism,  Howells  constantly  iterated  that  it  was  nothing  more 
or  less  than  "the  truthful  treatment  of  material."  Its  origin  he  never  at- 
tributed to  any  source,  claiming  that  it  merely  "grew."  As  romanticism 
sought  to  widen  the  bounds  of  sympathy,  to  level  the  barriers  against 
artistic  freedom,  and  to  escape  from  the  paralysis  of  neoclassicism,  so 
realism  carried  on  when  the  former  movement  had  exhausted  itself  but 
went  further  in  stressing  the  belief  that  "fidelity  to  experience  and  prob- 
ability of  motive  are  essential  conditions  of  a  great  imaginative  litera- 
ture." 18  In  regard  to  the  Pilatian  question,  "What  is  truth?,"  he  offered 
the  following  practical  advice: 

The  most  that  you  can  do  is  to  appeal  to  your  own  consciousness,  and  that 
is  not  proof  to  anybody  else.  Perhaps  the  best  test  in  this  difficult  matter  is  the 
quality  of  the  art  which  created  the  picture.  Is  it  clear,  simple,  unaffected?  Is  it 
true  to  human  experience  generally?  If  it  is  so,  then  it  cannot  well  be  false 
to  the  special  human  experience  it  deals  with.19 

Such  simplicity  and  clarity  are  almost  unique,  but  Howells  was  not 
so  fortunate  when  he  undertook  to  add  a  refinement  in  the  way  of  a 
distinction  between  the  romantic  and  the  "romantieistic."  He  explained 
that  "Romance,  as  in  Hawthorne,  seeks  the  effect  of  reality  in  visionary 
conditions;  romanticism,  as  in  Dickens,  tries  for  a  visionary  effect  in 
actual  conditions."  20  To  him,  Bret  Harte  was,  thus,  not  a  "romantic"  but 
a  writer  of  "romantieistic  novelle." 

We  have  already  observed  that  the  reaction  to  Howells's  critical  opin- 
ions was  usually  hostile;  a  review  of  Criticism  and  Fiction  published  in 
The  Literary  World  for  June  20,  1891,  describes  his  dicta  as  no  more 
entertaining  or  instructive  than  the  judgments  of  a  "Pawnee  brave  in  the 
galleries  of  the  Louvre."  But  here  and  there  a  younger  author  was  im- 
pressed, as  one  may  observe  by  glancing  at  Hamlin  Garland's  Crumbling 
Idols  or  Frank  Norris's  The  Responsibilities  of  the  Novelist  (1903),  both 
of  which  teem  with  Howellsian  dogmas. 

At  the  present  time  Howells's  fiction  is  not  in  favor.  In  the  light  of 
more  recent  naturalism,  and  the  freedom  with  which  sex  has  been  treated 
since  the  time  of  his  death,  he  seems  no  longer  the  fugleman  of  the  ad- 
vance guard  that  he  appeared  to  be  in  the  eighties  but  strikes  one  as  a 
reticent  middle  man  of  the  horse-and-buggy  era.  The  tameness  of  the 
love-making  of  his  characters  fills  the  cup  of  impatience  to  overflowing, 
and  the  contrasts  between  the  good  folk  of  Boston  or  New  York  and 
the  provincials  from  the  New  England  countryside  or  the  Middle  West 
which  figure  so  largely  in  his  pages  no  longer  sustain  the  interest  of  many 
readers.  His  treatment  of  economic  problems  seems  but  a  half-way  gesture 

18  Howells,  Life,  Vol.  1,  p.  378;  Criticism  and  Fiction,  p.  15. 

19  "Puritanism  in  American  Fiction,"  Literature  and  Life,  p.  278. 

-°  Heroines  of  Fiction  (New  York  and  London,  1901),  Vol.  1,  p.  162. 


REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS  679 

to  the  lovers  of  The  Grapes  of  Wrath,  and  his  satire  appears  insipid  to 
those  who  have  a  taste  for  the  Cayenne  pepper  of  Sinclair  Lewis.  Even 
in  academic  circles,  though  his  novels  are  approved  for  their  mastery  of 
form,  it  is  a  case  of  probitas  laudatur  et  alget— uprightness  is  praised  but 
shivers  in  the  cold.  Other  than  the  seeming  inanity  of  the  love-making, 
perhaps  the  chief  difficulty  that  besets  the  contemporary  reader  is  the 
absence  of  intensity  in  the  emotions  of  his  characters.  Rather  wisely  for 
one  who  sought  to  represent  the  life  and  manners  of  the  stratum  of 
American  society  midway  betwixt  the  very  poor  and  the  very  rich, 
Howells  ordinarily  shunned  melodrama,  but  his  temperament  was  such 
that  he  turned  numb  when  confronted  with  the  exhibition  of  the  strongest 
emotions.  Even  when  he  had  in  mind  the  tragic  failure  of  his  own  father's 
heroic  effort  to  make  a  living  as  a  mill  owner,  in  New  Leaf  Mills  (191 3), 
he  could  advance  the  emotion  caught  by  the  reader  no  further  than  a 
nostalgic  melancholy;  and  when,  in  An  Imperative  Duty  (1891),  he 
created  a  melodramatic  situation  in  which  a  young  girl  of  Southern  birth 
is  belatedly  told  by  her  aunt  that  she  is  the  daughter  of  an  octoroon,  the 
best  that  he  could  do  to  exhibit  her  agitation  was  to  have  her  go  wander- 
ing through  the  Negro  quarter  of  Boston  and  accompany  a  kindly  old 
Negress  to  a  church  service.  With  his  men,  to  be  sure,  Howells  often 
fared  better,  and,  subtle  psychologist  that  he  was,  he  never  created  a 
female  character  equal  to  Silas  Lapham,  the  defaulter  Northwick,  or  Jeff 
Durgin,  the  hero  of  The  Landlord  at  Lion's  Head  (1897).  But,  it  should 
be  remembered,  many  seemingly  impossible  traits  of  "his  women  were 
far  truer  to  the  sex  of  his  day  than  may  now  appear  possible.  Indeed, 
many,  but  not  all,  of  the  seeming  improbabilities  that  now  bother  a 
reader  of  his  novels  are  obviated  by  a  knowledge  of  the  social  history 
of  the  period  of  which  he  wrote.  People  did  go  to  Indiana,  instead  of 
Nevada,  for  a  quick  and  easy  divorce,  and  some  country  girls  from 
Massachusetts  did  grow  to  maturity  without  ever  seeing  a  drunken  man. 
When  one  asks  the  question  as  to  whether  Howells  really  succeeded  in 
exhibiting  the  "foolish  and  insipid  face"  of  the  poor  real  life  about  him— 
whether  he  lived  up  to  his  formula  of  truthfully  treating  material— a  de- 
cided answer  is  to  be  had  from  one  of  the  most  distinguished  historians 
of  the  Howells  age,  who  informs  us  that  the  novels  give  posterity  "a 
picture  of  middle-class  life  and  thought  which  the  most  relentless  scrutiny 
of  official  documents  will  fail  to  disclose."  21 

If  the  time  ever  arrives  when  the  lighter  aspects  of  the  life  and  manners 
of  the  later  nineteenth  century  assume  a  piquancy  and  a  charm  by  sheer 
antiquity,  then  Howells's  fiction  will  come  into  its  own;  at  present  it  is 
identified  with  the  commonplace.  But,  despite  their  material,  his  stories 
are  nonetheless  very  estimable,  for  none  is  utterly  inexpert  and  many  are 
genuine  masterpieces  of  craftsmanship.  And  the  style  of  his  writing  is 

21  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger,  The  Rise  of  the  City,  1878-1X98   (1933),  p.  465. 


68o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

distinguished  by  a  suppleness  and  a  pungency  that  have  aroused  even 
Henry  Mencken  to  speak  of  it  as  "admirable."  Few  Americans  have  been 
able  to  write  the  brilliant,  witty  conversation  which  Howells  so  often 
put  in  the  mouths  of  characters,  and  a  delicious  humor  runs  its  course 
through  his  pages  from  first  to  last.  He  was  born  with  a  "native  love  of 
laughing,"  gained  his  first  reputation  in  an  age  that  demanded  humor  of 
its  authors  at  all  costs,  and,  even  when  he  was  troubled  by  the  inequities 
of  society  and  the  ills  inherited  by  human  flesh,  was  still  able  at  times  to 
chuckle.  The  "smiling  aspects"  of  American  life  were  not  only  compatible 
with  his  genial  temperament  but  were  seen  by  him  to  be  typical  of  a 
land  where  mirth  and  an  average  prosperity  ruled  far  more  than  in  the 
other  countries  he  had  seen.  And  so  the  long  procession  of  his  novels  is, 
for  the  most  part,  also  a  long  comedy  of  manners,  the  like  of  which  no 
subsequent  American  has  produced. 


Chapter  34 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE 

Before  the  triumph  of  the  local-color  movement  and  the  conscientious 
use  by  Howells  of  the  humble  stuff  of  native  life  and  manners,  there  was 
a  rather  firmly  fixed  idea,  regnant  largely  in  minds  of  the  more  cultivated 
sort,  that  the  American  background  was  so  thin  and  humdrum  that  it 
imposed  an  almost  insuperable  barrier  on  the  high  road  to  artistic  success. 
The  opinion  was,  of  course,  traditional,  carried  over  from  the  days  of 
colonial  dependency.  Even  the  revered  authors  whose  accomplishments 
had  done  so  much  to  demonstrate  the  fallacy  of  the  idea  had  helped  to 
foster  the  tradition,  for  Washington  Irving  explained  his  turning  to 
European  material  on  the  ground  that  it  represented  an  accumulation  of 
the  "treasures  of  age,"  in  which  he  wished  to  lose  himself  among  "the 
shadowy  grandeurs  of  the  past"— to  escape,  in  brief,  "from  the  common- 
place realities  of  the  present."  Fenimore  Cooper  went  even  further  in 
bemoaning  the  "poverty  of  materials"  in  his  native  land;  and  Hawthorne, 
in  making  plain  the  reason  for  choosing  Italy  as  the  setting  for  The  Marble 
Faun,  remarked:  "No  author,  without  a  trial,  can  conceive  of  the  difficulty 
of  writing  a  romance  about  a  country  where  there  is  no  shadow,  no 
antiquity,  no  mystery,  no  picturesque  and  gloomy  wrong,  nor  anything 

but  a  commonplace  prosperity "  1  But  when  the  eighties  boomed  with 

local  color  and  resounded  with  arguments  over  Howellsian  realism,  the 
old  cry  about  the  poverty  of  native  materials  became,  perforce,  less 
vehement.  Yet  it  was  still  to  be  heard.  And  its  echoes,  one  may  say,  were 
still  reverberating  in  the  present  century,  when  the  biographer  Gamaliel 
Bradford  explained  that  he  had  turned  aside  from  American  subjects  be- 
cause they  seemed  "scanty  or  colorless"  and  Van  Wyck  Brooks  and 
Henry  Mencken  advocated  the  establishment  of  an  intellectual  aristocracy 
as  a  remedy  for  the  artistic  shortcomings  of  our  society.  Throughout  the 

1  Irving,  "The  Author's  Account  of  Himself,"  The  Sketch  Book;  Cooper,  Notions 
of  the  Americans,  2  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  1828),  Vol.  2,  p.  108;  Hawthorne,  Preface  to 
The  Marble  Faun. 

681 


682  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

nineteenth  century  it  was  traditional  to  believe,  if  one  were  cultivated, 
that  Europe  was  richer  in  literary  ore,  just  as  it  was  also  traditional  to 
say,  with  Emerson,  that  Americans  had  listened  too  long  to  the  courtly 
muses,  to  assert  the  need  for  "the  great  American  novel,"  or  to  prophesy 
a  literature  of  the  future  in  which  democracy  should  at  length  exhibit 
its  mighty  prowess.  Side  by  side,  there  flourished  an  increasing  nationalism 
and  an  increasing  cosmopolitanism,  and  the  literature  exploiting  native 
themes  was  paralleled  in  its  augmentation  by  the  literature  concerned 
with  the  manners  and  society  of  Europe.  A  glance  at  the  list  of  Mark 
Twain's  books  will  illustrate.  That  indigenous  son  of  America  matched 
Roughing  It  with  many  a  tramp  abroad,  paid  his  respects  to  a  prince  of 
England  as  well  as  to  Fluckleberry  Finn,  and  exalted  Joan  of  Arc  even 
as  he  damned  Mary  Baker  Eddy. 

More  demonstrative  of  the  lure  of  the  foreign  than  even  the  extra- 
ordinary leaning  of  American  critical  intelligence  upon  the  literary 
doctrines  of  Europe  was  an  insatiable  demand  for  travel  books,  to  the 
satisfaction  of  which  so  much  of  Clemens's  writing  is  dedicated.  The 
United  States  itself  came  in  for  a  goodly  share  of  attention  but  foreign 
lands  for  perhaps  even  more;  and  from  Arabia  to  Zanzibar,  from  the 
North  Pole  to  the  tropics,  travelers  reported  their  impressions  to  the 
great  middle  class  ever  eager  for  picturesque  instruction.  Particularly 
numerous  were  the  books  on  England,  whence  flowed  the  literature 
which  everyone  was  reading  in  such  cheap  abundance,  and  on  France 
and  Italy,  nations  which,  visible  and  in  history,  seemed  a  haven  for  those 
who  wished  to  escape  from  the  commonplace.  The  vogue  for  such  works 
was,  of  course,  augmented  by  the  increasing  facility  of  travel  and  by  the 
acquisition  of  fortunes  which  enabled  more  Americans  than  ever  before 
to  settle  themselves  in  one  of  the  great  Cunarders  and  hie  themselves  I 
abroad.  "After  the  manner  of  Americans  of  fortune  who  have  no  special 
ties,"  wrote  John  Hay  of  the  hero  of  The  Br e ad-Winners  (1884),  "his 
mind  turned  naturally  to  Europe"— an  unconscious  revelation  of  the  at- 1 
titude  of  the  author  himself.  One  may  note  that  Hay  had  already  en- 
deared himself  not  only  with  Pike  County  Ballads  but  with  Cast  Hi  an  Days 
(187 1 ),  one  of  the  more  sprightly  books  of  travel  produced  during  the 
period.  Howells,  as  has  already  been  pointed  out,  first  struck  success  as 
an  author  with  Venetian  Life,  and,  in  addition  to  his  subsequent  books  on 
Italy,  wrote  others  on  England,  Spain,  and  Switzerland  as  well.  Between 
1894  and  191 3  he  revisited  Europe  eight  times.  During  his  editorship  of 
The  Atlantic  the  subtitle  of  that  journal  read,  "A  Magazine  of  Literature, 
Science,  Art,  and  Politics";  but  "Science"  might  well  have  been  dis-l 
placed  by  "Travel,"  for  articles  in  the  latter  category  were  far  more 
numerous,  and  more  than  a  majority  dealt  with  foreign  lands.  All  the 
prominent  magazines  of  the  day  carried  much  travel  literature,  as  did! 
also  the  leading  newspapers.  Helen  Hunt  Jackson  made  her  first  real  im-jl 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  683 

pression  as  an  author  with  a  travel  book  first  published  in  the  periodicals, 
Bits  of  Travel  (1872);  and  A4ark  Twain,  likewise,  with  The  Innocents 
Abroad  (1869). 

It  is  difficult  to  find  one  of  the  major  authors  of  the  period  who  did 
not  write  at  least  one  book  of  the  kind,  but  most  of  their  efforts  in  that 
province  survive  only  because  they  are  products  of  writers  more  eminent 
in  other  fields.  Even  the  works  of  Henry  James  in  that  genre— Portraits 
of  Places  (1883),  A  Little  Tour  in  France  (1885),  Italian  Hours  (1909), 
and  the  others— seem  of  minor  consequence  now,  and  little  by  the  other 
giants  of  the  epoch  appears  to  be  as  entertaining  as  the  private  letters 
written  while  abroad  by  Henry  Adams.  Among  the  authors  whose  claim 
upon  their  day  was  based  exclusively  on  books  of  exploration  or  travel 
the  name  of  Henry  Morton  Stanley  (1 841- 1904),  the  man  who  presumed 
to  discover  Livingstone,  is  still  current,  but  few  people  now  read  Through 
the  Dark  Continent  (1878)  or  In  Darkest  Africa  (1890).  And  Stanley, 
soon  after  his  first  success,  resumed  his  British  citizenship.  There  is  no 
author  of  the  period  who  stands  apart  in  the  travel-book  field  as  important 
historically  as  John  Lloyd  Stephens  (1805-52),  who,  in  the  forties,  had 
been  the  first  writer  in  English  to  report  effectively  on  the  Maya  culture 
of  Central  America,  though  the  work  of  many  who  described  their  own 
country  is  of  immense  value  to  historians.  There  are,  nevertheless,  a  few 
books  of  superior  literary  quality,  such  as  the  neglected  South-Sea  Idyls 
(1873)  of  Charles  Warren  Stoddard  (1843- 1909),  a  friend  of  Mark  Twain 
who  served  for  several  years  as  a  professor  at  Notre  Dame  and  at  the 
Catholic  University  of  America.  Another  author  named  Stoddard  is  so 
closely  identified  with  travel  that  his  name  should  perhaps  be  entered 
into  the  present  brief  record  despite  his  literary  shortcomings,  John 
Lawson  Stoddard  ( 1850-193 1).  He  dispensed  light  information  on  the 
various  countries  of  the  world  in  discourses  illustrated  with  stereopticon 
views,  and  his  popularity  was  so  phenomenal  that  his  Lectures  (1897- 
1909)  not  only  became  one  of  the  most  lucrative  sets  of  travel  books  ever 
sold  but  also  established  the  model  for  the  "travelogues"  later  given  cur- 
rency by  the  movie  manufacturers. 

The  attraction  of  foreign  lands,  so  manifest  in  the  vogue  of  the 
travelers,  is  also  to  be  seen  in  the  devotion  to  European  painting,  sculpture, 
and  architecture  which  marked  the  age,  as  well  as  in  a  variety  of  other 
matters,  ranging  from  the  fashionable  dress  of  ladies  to  the  inordinate 
deference  to  apostles  of  culture,  like  Matthew  Arnold,  who  came  to  this 
country  to  lecture.  Denver  was  perhaps  not  "ripe"  to  appreciate  them; 
but  Denver  turned  out  in  crowds  to  hear— and  paid  well  for  the  privilege. 
Academics  such  as  Charles  Eliot  Norton  (1827-1908),  co-executor  of  the 
will  of  Ruskin,  nobly  toiled  to  create  a  veneration  for  all  things  European 
—save  morals— in  the  minds  of  students  whom  they  encouraged  to  travel 
abroad  before  settling  in  a  rut;  and  even  in  the  prairie  universities  a 


684  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

smattering  of  French  was  deemed  a  requisite  for  true  culture,  even  though 
the  recipient  intended  little  more  than  some  day  addressing  a  Parisian 
waiter  in  his  own  language.  A  Harvard  student  who  had  never  been  far 
from  Boston,  upon  slipping  on  a  dance  floor,  might  ejaculate  with  in- 
vincible aplomb,  "These  cursed  American  floors,"  and  few  witnesses 
would  laugh,  for  in  social  matters  everything  at  home  was  supposed  to 
be  inferior.  The  hostility  to  the  upper  classes  of  Europe  that  had 
reached  fever  heat  during  the  Civil  War  soon  passed  away  among  the 
"socialities,"  who  ten  years  later  affected  a  Europe-adoration  such  as  had 
never  been  seen  before.2  The  increasing  droves  of  intellectuals  of  all  I 
sorts  who  went  abroad  to  study  are  also  important.  The  philological  bent  I 
of  German  universities  began  to  set  a  pattern  for  literary  studies  in  Ameri- 
can colleges;  and,  indeed,  the  entire  program  of  our  first  graduate  schools, 
following  the  example  of  The  Johns  Hopkins  University  (opened  1876), 
was  largely  Germanic  in  arrangement  and  method.  But  more  important 
for  present  purposes  is  the  fact  that  the  lure  of  the  foreign  made  absentees 
of  a  number  of  able  writers. 


Unlike  the  expatriates  who  haunted  the  Left  Bank  of  Paris  in  the  years 
following  the  First  World  War,  these  absentee  authors  were  for  the  most 
part  brought  up  abroad  as  children  and  early  absorbed  what  Henry  James 
called  the  "European  virus."  A  good  example  is  the  poet  Stuart  Merrill 
(1863- 19 1 5),  whose  youthful  years  in  France  were  sufficient  to  make 
him  more  of  a  Frenchman  than  an  American,  though  he  was  greatly  in- 
fluenced by  Whitman  and  was  a  protege  of  Howells.  But  since  so  little 
of  his  work  is  in  English,  Merrill  belongs  to  the  history  of  French  litera- 
ture, where  he  has  his  place  as  one  of  the  minor  Symbolists.  Even  more 
of  a  Frenchman  was  Francis  Viele-Griffin  (1864-1937),  who  became  one 
of  the  leaders  of  the  late  Symbolist  movement  and  whose  free  verse, 
greater  in  quantity  than  Merrill's,  was  sometimes  charged  with  an  "Ameri- 
can looseness,"  though  its  author  left  the  United  States  for  good  at  the 
age  of  eight.  The  expatriation  of  Bret  Harte  was  atypical,  for  his  pro- 
longed residence  abroad  was  probably  due  to  the  fact  that  his  later  work 
was  more  eagerly  sought  by  the  British  magazines  than  by  their  American 
rivals.  Too,  he  seems  to  have  been  glad  to  escape  the  company  of  his  wife. 
In  addition  to  Harte,  there  were  other  expatriates  who  supplied  fiction 
in  quantity  to  the  British  periodicals,  among  them  Henry  James  and 
Francis  Marion  Crawford  (1854-1909). 

The  latter  was  probably  the  most  cosmopolitan  of  all  our  novelists,  as 
well  he  should  have  been,  for  he  was  born  in  Italy,  the  son  of  the  sculptor 
Thomas  Crawford,  educated  in  Italy,  America,  England,  and  Germany, 

2  For  a  fairly  neat  satire,  see  Mrs.  Burton  Harrison's  short  novel  The  Anglomaniacs 
(1890). 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  685 

and  in  1879  betook  himself  to  India  to  learn  Sanskrit,  one  of  sixteen 
languages  which  he  studied  during  his  life.  After  a  trial  at  editorial  work 
on  the  Indian  Herald  in  Allahabad,  he  came  to  the  United  States,  hoping 
to  become  a  philologist  but  instead  began  writing  for  the  magazines.  His 
first  novel,  Mr.  Isaacs  (1882),  was  a  fascinating  yarn  about  a  wealthy 
Persian  diamond  merchant  living  in  India  who  falls  in  love  with  an 
English  girl.  Soon  afterward  Crawford  settled  as  a  successful  novelist  in 
Sorrento,  where  he  made  his  home  for  the  rest  of  his  life,  though  he 
travelled  much  and  after  1891  annually  spent  a  few  months  lecturing  and 
working  in  America.  His  forty-odd  novels  are  all  of  the  romantic  variety, 
teeming  with  love  affairs,  brave  deeds,  and  other  excitement,  and  have 
their  setting  in  America,  England,  Germany,  Italy,  Switzerland,  and  the 
East.  All  are  rapid  in  movement,  the  better  ones  being  skilfully  con- 
structed and  adroitly  manipulated,  though  the  author  made  sure  that  even 
the  most  stupid  reader  would  have  everything  well  in  mind  by  providing 
recapitulations  of  events,  digests  of  situations  as  they  confronted  the 
characters,  and  extended  analyses  of  their  reactions  to  one  another.  The 
"art"  of  the  motion  picture  was  his.  As  he  explained  in  an  illuminating 
essay,  The  Novel:  What  It  Is  (1893),  Crawford  regarded  his  fictions  as 
pocket  dramas  intended  to  amuse,  dealing  primarily  with  love  and  com- 
bining romance  and  reality  in  "just  proportions."  He  was  opposed  to 
humor  and  dialect  and  thought  that  the  employment  of  science  or  the 
details  of  contemporary  life  in  novels  merely  served  to  "date"  them.  Be- 
cause the  novelist's  appeal  was  directed  to  "the  prime  impulses  of  the 
heart,"  he  denounced  preachment  and  Tendenz  but  held  out  for  a  noble 
ethical  effect,  to  be  obtained  by  the  idealization  of  character.  Great 
emotions,  he  insisted,  were  not  "every-day  phenomena."  In  short,  his 
essential  philosophy  of  fiction  was  as  far  removed  from  that  of  Howells 
as  was  possible.  To  Henry  James  he  seemed  a  "sixpenny  humbug."  But 
he  was  popular  in  both  England  and  America,  and  a  number  of  his  stories 
have  been  very  successful  as  plays  or  movies,  for  example,  The  White 
Sister  (1909). 

His  seven  novels  laid  in  America  are  probably  the  least  of  his  efforts, 
thin  in  background  and,  as  in  An  American  Politician  (1884),  occasionally 
astonishing  in  improbability.  The  weaknesses  of  his  foreign  settings  are 
not  so  obvious  to  the  American  reader,  and  any  one  of  his  stories  is  likely 
to  jump  into  the  realm  of  the  impossible  whenever  it  served  his  purpose 
to  make  them  do  so.  His  heroines— several  of  whom  are  described  as  "the 
most  beautiful  woman  in  the  world"— seem  to  impress  one  best  when  they 
are  coeval  foreigners  or  figures  in  historical  romances  such  as  Via  Crucis 
(1898),  a  tale  of  the  Second  Crusade  in  which  Eleanor  of  Aquitaine  moves 
as  the  central  female  character.  Most  highly  praised  of  his  works  is  a 
trilogy  dealing  with  three  generations  of  a  wealthy  and  aristocratic 
Italian  family:  Saracinesca  (1887),  Sanf  llario  (1889),  and  Don  Orsino 


686  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

(1892).  In  these  the  author  embodied  his  abundant  knowledge  of  the 
manners  of  Roman  patricians  of  the  later  nineteenth  century  and  created 
a  number  of  well-delineated  personages,  particularly  Corona  Saracinesca, 
the  most  impressive  of  his  beautiful  heroines.  Even  in  the  second  of  these 
novels,  where  melodrama  runs  riot,  the  handling  of  character  is  unusually 
able  for  romantic  fiction,  and  the  suspense  is  held  at  a  high  pitch  until  the 
end.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Crawford's  gift  of  invention  was  of  a 
superlative  order,  but  his  appeal  to  sophisticated  readers  today  is  severely 
circumscribed  by  the  obviousness  of  his  character-analysis  and  by  a 
romantic  aura  which  sheds  a  false  Aurora-Borealis  light  on  his  scenes  of 
action.  Yet  two  of  his  novels,  Zoroaster  (1885)  and  Marzio's  Crucifix 
(1887),  were  considered  eminent  enough  to  warrant  the  French  Academy 
to  crown  them. 


Most  exotic  of  all  the  authors  of  the  period  was  Lafcadio  Hearn  (1850- 
1904),  born  on  Santa  Maura  in  the  Ionian  Archipelago  as  the  son  of  a 
British  army  surgeon  and  a  native  Greek  girl  later  separated  from  her 
husband.  After  receiving  an  education  in  Catholic  schools  in  England 
and,  presumably,  also  in  France,  he  came  to  the  United  States  in  1869  as 
a  poverty-stricken  immigrant,  blind  in  one  eye  and  pathetically  malad- 
justed to  society.  A  few  years  later  he  was  employed  as  a  journalist  in 
Cincinnati,  but  after  entering  into  a  liaison  with  a  Negress,  who  later 
sued  for  a  widow's  portion  of  his  estate,  he  left  Ohio  in  1877  f°r  New 
Orleans,  where  he  remained  for  a  decade.  In  Louisiana  he  continued  with 
newspaper  work  and  in  time  began  contributing  to  Northern  magazines. 
In  1882  he  published  his  first  book,  One  of  Cleopatra's  Nights,  a  transla- 
tion from  Theophile  Gautier,  a  writer  who,  with  Poe  and  Pierre  Loti, 
exerted  a  potent  influence  upon  Hearn's  early  work.  Because  of  a  com- 
patibility of  temperament,  Hearn  consecrated  himself  to  "the  worship  of 
the  Odd,  the  Queer,  the  Strange,  the  Exotic,  the  Monstrous,"  3  and  for 
a  time  he  seems  to  have  indulged  in  the  belief  that  Buddhism  in  some 
esoteric  form  might  prove  the  religion  of  the  future.  But  in  1886  he  be- 
came a  disciple  of  Herbert  Spencer,  whose  ideas  thereafter  formed  the 
center  of  the  wild  but  engaging  speculations  which  marked  his  letters 
until  his  death.  His  reading  of  the  exotic  works  collected  in  his  own 
library  furnished  much  material  for  his  earliest  books.  Inspired  by  the 
success  of  Cable,  he  also  interested  himself  in  the  local  scene  and,  among 
other  treatments  of  the  Creole  area,  produced  the  delightful  novelette 
Chita  (1889),  a  tale  of  a  child  lost  in  a  storm  which  in  1856  had  wrecked 
the  islands  off  the  coast  of  Louisiana.  In  this  narrative  Hearn  felt  that  he 
was    incorporating    something    of    the    scientific    spirit    absorbed    from 

:i  Elizabeth  Bisland,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  Lafcadio  Hearn,  2  Vols.  (1906),  Vol.  1, 
p.  328. 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  687 

Spencer,  though  the  reader  is  at  a  loss  to  find  evidence  of  it.  The  story 
exhibits,  rather,  the  influence  of  Loti.  It  is,  however,  far  from  a  mere 
imitation,  and  its  candescent,  ornate  style,  along  with  an  appealing  plot, 
makes  it  a  minor  classic  of  the  local-color  variety.  In  1887  Hearn  left 
New  Orleans  and  soon  accepted  a  vague  commission  from  a  publisher 
to  visit  the  West  Indies.  There  he  spent  two  years  soaking  up  atmosphere 
and  wrote  a  travel  book  on  the  region  as  well  as  another  novelette,  Youma 
(1890),  based  upon  a  true  story  of  a  Martinique  Negress  who  vainly  pro- 
tects a  Creole  child  during  the  slave  insurrection  of  1848.  In  style  it  is 
not  so  lush  as  Chita  but  is  a  most  distinguished  piece  of  writing,  and  takes 
its  place  beside  the  earlier  nouvelle  as  the  most  noteworthy  of  Hearn's 
fictions. 

In  1890  the  search  for  the  exotic,  as  well  as  a  contract  with  Harpefs, 
tempted  Hearn  to  journey  to  Japan.  In  the  land  of  the  Mikado  he  spent 
the  rest  of  his  days,  as  teacher  of  English,  journalist  for  the  Kobe  Chron- 
icle, and  in  time  professor  of  English  literature  in  the  University  of 
Tokyo.  Shortly  after  his  arrival  he  married  a  young  Japanese  girl  who 
could  speak  no  English,  and  the  necessity  of  providing  her  relatives  and 
his  own  children  with  an  additional  income  caused  him  to  redouble  his 
efforts  as  a  contributor  to  American  magazines.  Two  of  the  resultant 
travel  books,  Glimpses  of  Unfamiliar  Japan  ( 1 894)  and  the  better  Japan: 
An  Attempt  at  Interpretation  (1904),  show  the  effects  of  a  too  limited 
knowledge  but  were  at  once  hailed  in  England  and  America  as  authorita- 
tive efforts  to  interpret  the  nation  then  rising  to  imperial  ascendancy  in 
the  East.  The  Japanese  were  proud  of  having  in  their  midst  so  able  a 
publicist.  Both  works  have  long  since  lost  their  value.  Such  is  not  the 
case  with  the  many  tales  and  sketches  which  Hearn  adapted  for  Oc- 
cidental consumption,  and  the  four  volumes  of  his  Japanese  Fairy  Tales 
(1898- 1 903)  have  lost  nothing  of  their  original  lustre.  Along  with  his 
letters,  the  author's  contributions  in  the  field  of  literary  criticism  should 
also  be  mentioned  as  worthy  of  reading,  even  though  they  have  come  to 
us  chiefly  in  the  form  of  lectures  taken  down  in  shorthand  by  his  pupils. 
They  offer  more  than  a  curious  mastery  over  the  difficulties  of  making 
Western  culture  intelligible  to  the  Oriental  mind,  and,  indeed,  reveal  a 
nice  discrimination  in  literary  taste  and  a  conspicuous  grasp  of  tendencies 
in  the  literature  of  England  and  the  United  States.  Of  the  many  collec- 
tions of  these  lectures  one  of  the  best  is  Interpretations  of  Literature 
(1915).  While  he  admired  Ho  wells  as  a  subtle  artist,  Hearn  hated  "the 
life  of  every  day  in  connection  with  any  idea  of  story  writing,"  and  his 
own  work  belongs  to  the  esthetic  movement  of  the  time.  As  his  wife 
commented,  "He  was  too  enthusiastic  for  beauty,  for  which  he  wept, 
and  for  which  he  rejoiced,  and  for  which  he  was  angry."  4  His  powers 
were  crippled  by  his  inability  to  concentrate  on  literature  as  a  sole  oc- 

4  Bisland,  Ltfe,  Vol.  1,  p.  145. 


688  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

cupation,  and  too  much  of  his  work  is  miscellaneous  journalism,  without 
the  leisurely  finish  which  he  himself  proclaimed  indispensable  to  solid 
endurance. 


By  all  odds  the  most  eminent  of  the  absentee  authors  of  the  later  nine- 
teenth century  was  Henry  James  (1843- 191 6),  whose  novels  and  short 
stories,  of  the  psychological  sort,  rank  him  with  Hawthorne  as  one 
of  the  two  most  distinguished  practitioners  of  the  art  of  fiction  whom 
America  has  so  far  produced.  Unlike  Hawthorne's,  however,  his  eminence 
is  still  occasionally  questioned,  and  his  works  have  not  been  widely  read, 
for  relatively  few  of  them  have  been  translated  into  foreign  languages 
and  even  in  England  and  the  United  States  his  vogue,  comparatively,  has 
been  inconsiderable.  During  his  lifetime  the  only  one  of  his  stories  to 
attract  wide  attention  was  Daisy  Miller  (1879),  an  account  of  an  Ameri- 
can girl  whose  freedom  of  action  and  native  manners  are  contrasted  with 
the  more  severely  decorous  habitudes  of  the  refined  Europeans  with  whom 
she  comes  in  contact  during  a  stay  abroad.  Since  his  death  his  best-known 
narrative  has  been  a  ghost  story,  "The  Turn  of  the  Screw"  (1898),  which 
its  author  characterized  as  a  "pot-boiler,  pure  and  simple."  The  tale  is 
nonetheless  one  of  the  most  estimable  treatments  of  the  supernatural  in 
the  English  language.  When  James  was  at  the  height  of  his  powers  his 
serial  novels  were  often  rejected  by  the  editors  of  the  magazines,  and, 
late  in  his  life,  the  collected  editions  of  his  works  lost  money  for  both 
the  American  and  the  British  firms  which  brought  them  out.  The  ripple 
of  interest  in  his  work  during  the  last  few  years  has  as  yet  refused  to 
become  a  huge  wave,  though  in  astute  critical  circles  his  merits  seem  to 
be  better  appreciated  and  there  is  no  denying  the  fact  that  readers  have 
turned  to  him  in  greater  number— not,  it  may  be  supposed,  without  a 
measure  of  the  singular  coercion  exerted  by  "snob  appeal." 

The  reasons  for  James's  lack  of  popularity  are  palpable  enough.  Soon 
after  passing  from  his  apprenticeship,  he  avoided  the  excitements  of  plot 
in  favor  of  the  niceties  of  character  portrayal;  and  his  characters,  made 
up  largely  out  of  his  own  head,  were  never  people  of  action.  Instead, 
they  were  "vehicles  of  consciousness"— observers,  reflectors,  the  best  of 
them  "fine  consciences."  And  the  portraiture  of  the  vicious  side  of  life 
which  has  provided  interest  for  so  much  realistic  fiction,  while  admittedly 
offering  attractions  of  the  pictorial  sort,  was  so  alien  to  James's  nature 
and  experience  that  he  shrank  from  attempting  anything  of  the  sort.  As 
a  technician  he  found  it  difficult  to  give  the  "air  of  consistency"  to  de- 
pravity."' Consistent  realism,  to  him,  seemed  "hard";  and  the  passions  with 
which  he  concerned  himself  were  of  the  intellect.  As  a  result,  his  readers 
have  been  forced  to  appreciate  his  fiction  on  intellectual  grounds— a  sure 

5  Partial  Portraits  (London,  1919),  p.  197. 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  689 

means  of  reducing  an  audience  to  the  fit  but  few.  This  cerebral  quality 
became  more  obvious  as  he  grew  older,  for  in  the  nineties  he  evolved  what 
is  known  as  his  later  manner,  reduced  his  plots  to  even  narrower  situa- 
tions, refined  the  consciousness  and  consciences  of  his  characters  to  a 
degree  unparalleled  by  any  preceding  British  or  American  novelist,  and 
promoted  at  greater  length  the  psychological  accompaniment  of  his 
stories  rather  than  the  stories  themselves.  His  method  became  more 
realistic  than  ever,  but  neither  his  plots  nor  his  characters  seemed  to  base 
themselves  on  familiar  earth.  Moreover,  he  supplanted  humor  with  irony 
and  cultivated  a  long-winded  style  with  sentences  overwhelmed  with 
qualifications,  due  not  only  to  his  own  ability  to  notice  at  one  and  the 
same  time  five  different  minor  aspects  of  a  situation  or  a  remark  but  also 
to  an  over-scrupulous  desire  for  accuracy  and  fine  shadings.  As  the  witty 
Rebecca  West  has  put  it,  James's  earlier  sentences  were  straight  young 
things  that  could  run  where  they  listed,  but  his  later  ones  became  delicate 
creatures,  "swathed  in  relative  clauses."  When  reading  some  of  those 
long  and  involved  sentences  one  sympathizes  with  the  humorist  Mr. 
Dooley,  who  after  talking  with  the  stuttering  James  confessed  that  he 
wanted  to  say:  "Just  'pit  it  out  in  papa's  hand."  That  the  involute  locu- 
tion of  the  novelist  was  native  to  the  man  is  attested  not  only  by  his 
speech  but  by  his  later  letters,  whether  written  in  longhand  or  dictated. 
In  one  of  the  former  we  find  the  following  postscript:  "Do  you,  dear 
Mildred,  (to  whom  tender  love,)  ever  see  the  (I  fear)  truly  tragic 
Smalleys?"  To  many  intelligent  readers  the  later  works  of  James  are  as 
difficult  to  comprehend  as  the  music  of  Debussy  is  to  auditors  experienced 
only  in  the  repertoire  of  a  brass  band.  To  the  ardent  Jamesian,  however, 
they  represent  the  fullest  flowering  of  his  genius.  The  novice  will  do 
well  to  begin  with  the  earlier  tales  and  then  sample  the  later  fiction  in 
the  short  stories,  in  which  the  baffling  sentences  can  be  more  readily 
understood  if  read  aloud. 

The  biography  of  James  offers  comparatively  little  in  the  way  of 
material  used  in  his  stories,  for  from  the  outset  of  his  career  his  art  was 
detached  and  most  of  his  plots  came  from  ideas  picked  up  by  chance  in 
conversation  or  from  his  reading.  Only  one  of  his  many  characters  seems 
directly  to  have  been  modeled  upon  himself— Longueville,  who  appears 
in  one  of  the  most  inferior  novels,  Confidence  (1880).  But  James's  life 
does  explain  his  use  of  European  backgrounds  and  the  limitations  of  his 
outlook  on  humanity.  His  artistry,  however,  is  like  all  genius,  one  of 
the  splendid  accidents  for  which  history  cannot  account.  He  was  born 
in  New  York  City  as  the  second  of  the  five  children  of  Henry  James, 
Senior,  a  witty  man,  much  inclined  to  theological  speculation  and  pro- 
vided with  such  ample  means  that  he  never  needed  to  work.  The  father 
was  a  believer  in  a  kind  of  "progressiveness"  in  education  and  seems 
never  to  have  had  any  particular  ambition  for  his  children  except  that 


69o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

thev  should  be  liberally  "good."  When  his  invalid  daughter  asked  whether 
he  believed  suicide  was  justifiable,  he  gave  her  permission  to  take  her  own 
life  if  she  chose  to  do  so.  (She  didn't.)  In  Albany  and  New  York  skilled 
teachers  were  secured,  and  when  the  future  novelist  was  twelve  the  whole 
family  settled  in  Europe  so  that  they  might  learn  foreign  languages  well 
and  see  something  of  the  world  against  the  day  when  they  should,  of  their 
own  volition,  live  where  they  pleased.  The  three  years  involved  in  this  trip 
were  soon  followed  by  several  months  in  1859-60  which  continued  the 
process  of  making  the  youngsters  cosmopolites.  Late  in  i860  the  family  was 
established  at  Newport,  then  a  haven  for  intellectuals  and  not  as  yet  the 
summer  resort  of  plutocrats.  There  young  Henry  shared  the  instruction 
in  painting  which  his  older  brother  William,  later  the  renowned  psy- 
chologist, thought  might  provide  a  career.  There  he  began  his  acquaint- 
ance with  the  writings  of  Balzac  and  other  French  authors,  to  whom  he 
had  been  introduced  by  the  artist  John  La  Farge.  As  Henry  himself  re- 
called, the  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes  provided  "the  headspring  of  culture"  6 
during  his  years  at  Newport. 

The  excitement  of  the  Civil  War  caused  two  of  his  younger  brothers 
to  enlist,  but  because  of  an  injury  to  his  back  and  "terrible  attacks"  in 
the  head  Henry  remained  outside  its  orbit.  For  a  number  of  months  he 
religiously  attended  lectures  in  the  Harvard  Law  School  but  soon  began 
to  consider  the  prospects  of  becoming  a  writer.  His  father,  who  after  a 
number  of  spiritual  somersets  had  passed  from  the  Unitarians  to  Emerson, 
and  then  to  Swedenborg,  in  1864  moved  his  residence  to  Boston  and  two 
years  later  settled  for  good  in  Cambridge.  So  far  as  formal  education 
goes,  the  novelist  had  received  excellent  instruction  in  Latin,  French,  and 
German,  had  been  disciplined  somewhat  in  mathematics  and  drawing, 
but  had  dipped  more  than  lightly  into  literature.  He  had  a  good  knowl- 
edge of  family  favorites  like  Thackeray,  Carlyle,  George  Eliot,  and 
George  Sand  and  was  rapidly  extending  his  knowledge  of  contemporary 
French  authors.  Hawthorne  was  such  a  favorite  with  him  that  when  he 
heard  the  news  of  his  death  he  retired  to  a  bedroom  and  wept.  As  a  child 
in  New  York  he  had  already  met  a  number  of  American  writers,  and, 
now  that  his  father  was  hobnobbing  with  the  Boston  and  Cambridge 
circle,  he  eventually  became  a  protege  of  Lowell  and  of  Charles  Eliot 
Norton.  With  the  advent  of  Howells  he  found  for  the  first  time  another 
young  man  whose  ambition  was  to  be  a  literary  artist.  And  with  the  aid 
of  these  new  friends  it  was  not  long  before  he  started  his  destined  course 
as  a  magazine  writer  by  contributing  reviews  and  short  stories  to  The 
North  American  Review,  The  Atlantic  Monthly,  The  Nation,  and  The 
Galaxy. 

When  in  the  spring  of  1 869  he  set  sail  for  Europe  on  his  first  trip  alone, 

,;  Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother  (1914),  p.  56.  A  good  general  picture  of  the  Jameses 
is  provided  by  Francis  O.  Matthiessen  in  The  James  Family  (1947). 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  691 

he  did  so  with  the  idea  of  improving  his  health  and  of  studying  art  in 
Italy;  and,  removed  from  his  affectionate  and  lively  family,  he  was  lone- 
some and  insecure  but,  as  always,  inclined  to  be  optimistic.  If  his  ambi- 
tions in  letters  had  shaped  themselves  definitely,  he  probably  aspired  to 
become  the  American  Balzac,  though  since  his  first  review  in  1864  he 
had  published  about  fifty  others  and  had  printed  only  eleven  short  stories. 
Some  of  his  tales,  like  "The  Romance  of  Certain  Old  Clothes"  (1868), 
more  nearly  resembled  Hawthorne  than  the  French  realists.  Back  again 
in  Cambridge  in  1870,  he  continued  as  before  with  his  reading  and  writing 
but  soon  made  two  more  longish  stays  in  Europe  and  tried  a  whole  winter 
in  Paris,  where  he  made  the  acquaintance  of  Turgenev,  Flaubert,  Zola, 
and  Daudet,  but  felt  that  prolonged  residence  there  was  undesirable  be- 
cause he  would  always  remain  an  outsider.  Furthermore,  he  was  distracted 
from  work  by  his  numerous  fellow-countrymen  whose  society  "became 
a  kind  of  obligation."  The  next  year,  in  November,  1876,  he  settled  in 
England  for  good.  The  "European  virus"  had  at  last  worked  its  way 
through  all  his  veins.  Between  1870  and  1875  he  had  published  fourteen 
more  stories,  all  except  four  growing  out  of  his  visits  abroad,  six  of 
them  with  Italian  backgrounds.  And  in  one  tale,  "A  Passionate  Pilgrim" 
(187 1 ),  he  had  begun  to  use  the  contrast  in  the  point  of  view  of  Ameri- 
cans and  Europeans  which  was  destined  to  make  him  famous  as  an  "in- 
ternational" novelist.  This  story,  in  1875,  provided  also  the  title  for  his 
first  collection  of  fictions  published  as  a  book.  It  made  use  of  Hawthorne's 
old  plot  of  an  American  who  crosses  the  Atlantic  to  prosecute  his  claim 
to  an  English  estate.  His  first  novel,  Watch  and  Ward,  serialized  in  The 
Atlantic  in  1871,  was,  however,  an  attempt  at  a  realistic  story  of  Ameri- 
can life.  It  has  more  incident  than  any  six  of  James's  subsequent  works 
and  is  merely  the  product  of  an  apprentice.  The  second  of  his  novels, 
Roderick  Hudson  (1876),  is  much  abler  in  construction  and  reveals  the 
effects  of  his  study  of  Turgenev,  whose  artistry  and  personality  had 
aroused  in  James  a  most  enthusiastic  response.7  This  story  deals  with  a 
New  England  sculptor,  given  an  opportunity  to  study  in  Rome,  who  is 
ruined  by  weakness  of  character,  culminating  in  his  inability  to  overcome 
an  infatuation  for  the  daughter  of  an  expatriate  American  widow.  The 
first  of  James's  full-length  studies  of  character,  it  betokened  its  author's 
passage  from  his  apprenticeship  and  foreshadowed  the  distinctive  pattern 
which  he  was  to  follow  in  his  best  work. 

After  becoming  a  Londoner  in  1876,  James  made  numerous  trips  to 
the  Continent,  especially  to  Italy,  but  returned  to  the  United  States  only 
four  times  thereafter.  By  1880  he  felt  himself  "thoroughly  naturalised," 
and  ten  years  later  confessed  that  America  had  faded  for  him  to  the  point 

7  Though  at  times  slightly  exaggerated  or  erroneous,  the  best  treatment  of  the 
subject  is  Daniel  Lerner,  "The  Influence  of  Turgenev  on  Henry  James,"  Slavonic 
and  East  European  Rev.,  Vol.  20  (Dec.  1941),  pp.  28-54. 


692  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

that  he  could  never  again  undertake  a  story  with  a  wholly  American 
background.  Such  novels  as  Washington  Square  (1881)  and  The  Boston- 
ians  (1886)  had  been  confined  to  his  native  scene,  but  he  had  done  more 
popular  work  with  those  of  an  "international"  type,  like  The  American 
(1877),  in  which  an  American  businessman  runs  up  against  the  different 
mores  of  a  stiff  French  family  whose  daughter  he  is  unable  to  marry 
despite  his  great  wealth.  As  James  himself  pointed  out  later,  the  plot  is 
unrealistic,  for  such  a  family  as  he  described  would  have  eagerly  be- 
stowed the  daughter  for  the  hero's  money;  yet  the  tale  is  entertaining 
and  at  times  rich  in  local  color  and  humor.  Its  success,  like  that  of  Daisy 
Miller,  which  soon  followed,  led  the  magazine  editors  to  demand  more 
treatments  of  the  "international"  theme,  and  James  produced  a  good  many 
short  stories  or  nouvelles  to  satisfy  their  requests.  Occasionally,  as  in 
The  Europeans  (1878),  he  reversed  the  situation  and  moved  his  char- 
acters from  Europe  to  America,  but  he  was  surer  of  himself  when  he  had 
his  Americans  in  Paris  or  Rome.  His  first  years  in  London  were  spent  in 
roaming  the  streets  as  well  as  in  a  round  of  dinners  and  entertainments 
astonishing  in  number.  During  the  season  of  1878-79  he  dined  out  a 
hundred  and  seven  times.  He  met  many  of  the  great  Victorians  at  the 
dinner  table,  among  them  Tennyson,  Browning,  and  George  Eliot,  but 
seems  to  have  been  frequently  in  the  company  of  other  Americans  re- 
siding in  England.  Like  Browning,  he  gave  the  appearance  of  being  a 
man  of  the  world,  but  to  friends  of  his  own  age,  such  as  Edmund  Gosse, 
he  seemed  at  times  mildly  avuncular.  In  addition  to  travel  and  social 
activities,  which  diminished  in  frequency  as  he  grew  older,  hard  work 
consumed  his  time,  for  he  composed  methodically  and  his  output  was 
very  large.  For  a  time  also  he  had  the  responsibility  of  looking  after  his 
neurasthenic  sister  Alice,  who  likewise  lived  in  England  for  a  number  of 
years  prior  to  her  death  in  1892.  James  never  married,  and  as  yet  there  exists 
no  sure  evidence  that  he  was  ever  in  love.  Early  and  late,  his  chief  passion 
was  probably  his  craft.  For  many  years  he  had  bachelor's  lodgings  in 
London  and  was  an  habitue  of  his  clubs,  but  in  1897  he  bought  an 
eighteenth-century  house  with  a  pleasant  garden  on  the  outskirts  of  Rye, 
and  that  residence,  Lamb  House,  remained  his  home  until  he  died.  In  191 5, 
moved  by  the  apparent  slowness  of  the  United  States  in  entering  the 
war,  and  also  by  the  difficulties  imposed  upon  aliens,  he  became  a  British 
subject  and  was  promptly  honored  by  the  King  with  the  Order  of  Merit. 
Before  the  modification  in  his  style  in  the  nineties,  James  had  published 
a  large  number  of  novels  and  particularly  short  stories  which  varied  in 
quality  and  sometimes  in  emphasis.  He  was  eager  for  experiment  and 
finished  to  the  end  even  such  works  as  in  the  process  of  composition 
must  have  exhibited  flaws  and  weaknesses  to  his  very  critical  eyes.  Fear- 
ful of  being  caught  with  too  little  material  to  round  out  a  tale,  he  often 
expanded  his  beginnings  to  the  point  that  greater  length  than  originally 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  693 

planned  was  demanded,  in  order  to  achieve  proper  proportion.  The  re- 
sult is  manifest  in  the  lack  of  conciseness  in  his  short  stories,  few  of  which 
are  really  short,  and  in  the  size  of  a  few  of  his  novels,  which  are  too 
long  for  the  slightness  of  their  subjects.  This  criticism,  however,  applies 
more  to  his  later  fiction  than  to  that  of  his  earlier  period.  But  the  earlier 
James  produced  also  masterpieces,  as  well  as  works  cursed  by  what  he 
called  his  "fatal  technical  passion."  The  most  entertaining  of  his  apprentice 
short  stories  is  probably  "Gabrielle  de  Bergerac"  (1869),  so  French  that  it 
might  have  been  a  translation  from  Daudet  or  Merimee,  but  it  is  less  typical 
of  its  author's  ablest  work  in  that  genre  than  "The  Author  of  Beltraffio" 
(1884)  or  "The  Aspern  Papers"  (1888).  Better  still  are  three  of  the  full- 
length  novels  written  before  1891,  The  Portrait  of  a  Lady  (1881),  The 
Princess  Casamassima  (1886),  and  The  Tragic  Muse  (1890). 

The  first  of  these  is  often  classified  as  an  "international"  novel,  for  it 
centers  upon  an  American  girl  residing  abroad  who  is  tricked  by  the 
smoothest  female  on  record  into  marriage  with  a  sophisticated  and  ig- 
noble fellow-countryman.  International  contrasts  have  only  a  slight  em- 
phasis in  the  work.  Its  seemingly  inconclusive  ending,  James's  usual  device 
for  avoiding  the  happy  denouements  demanded  of  magazine  fiction,  will 
appear  to  a  careful  reader  not  inconclusive  at  all,  for,  once  one  is  possessed 
of  the  extensive  knowledge  concerning  the  nature  of  the  heroine  put  at 
his  disposal  by  the  author,  one  is  in  a  position  to  decide  for  himself  the 
conclusion.  The  Portrait  of  a  Lady  is  exactly  what  the  title  indicates— an 
intellectual  and  moral  representation  of  Isabel  Archer,  so  superbly  done 
that  it  is  considered  not  only  the  chief  work  in  James's  earlier  manner 
but  one  of  the  select  group  of  masterpieces  in  the  history  of  American 
fiction. 

The  Princess  Casamassima  is  wholly  English,  though  the  princess  her- 
self is  the  half-American  girl  with  whom  the  sculptor  fell  in  love  in 
Roderick  Hudson.  The  novel  should  have  been  named  after  Hyacinth 
Robinson,  the  hero,  the  bastard  child  of  an  Englishman  of  culture  and  a 
French  harlot  eventually  imprisoned  for  murdering  her  paramour.  He 
grows  up  in  a  London  slum  as  an  enemy  of  existing  society  and  a  con- 
federate of  a  gang  of  international  revolutionaries.  Despite  one's  doubts 
about  the  possibility  of  a  "fatally  aesthetic"  slum  youth's  becoming  a 
gentleman  of  the  sort  depicted  in  the  novel,  Hyacinth  is  one  of  James's 
best  heroes;  and  the  growth  of  his  awareness  of  the  amenities  of  the 
upper-class  society  which  he  has  sworn  to  destroy  is  handled  so  ex- 
pertly that  the  final  conflict  of  his  opposing  interests  provides  intellectual 
drama  of  a  most  exciting  variety.  One  is  forced  to  forget  that  Hyacinth, 
like  all  of  James's  characters,  talks  with  the  gentility  and  cleverness  of 
the  author  himself,  or  that  the  revolutionary  movement  in  which  he 
figures  is  so  vaguely  described  as  to  be  almost  unreal.  But  there  is  no 
denying   the   tremendous    suspense,    built   up    on   purely    psychological 


694  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

grounds.  As  a  drama  of  consciousness,  it  may  well  be  compared  with 
Turgenev's  Virgin  Soil,  from  which  James  borrowed  a  number  of  sug- 
gestions. 

The  Tragic  Muse  is  probably  the  richest  of  all  the  James  novels  in 
pictorial  suggestion  and  is  a  rare  example  of  the  achievement  of  unity 
with  a  plot  that  threatened  to  split  three  ways.  In  it  the  author  put  more 
effort  than  he  had  expended  on  anything  that  he  had  previously  written. 
It  is,  again,  wholly  European  in  background.  The  story  is  concerned 
with  a  young  Englishman  who  abandons  a  political  career  and  marriage 
with  a  beautiful  woman  of  wealth  in  favor  ot  his  devotion  to  painting, 
and  with  the  "tragic  muse"— a  young  girl,  half  English,  half  Jewish,  who 
becomes  a  famous  actress.  In  the  theatre  and  studio  scenes  depicted  in 
the  novel  James  used  to  the  fullest  his  close  acquaintance  with  such 
matters,  and  the  headlong  passion  of  a  young  Englishman  named  Sherring- 
ham  for  the  actress,  Miriam,  is  so  warm  that  the  action  of  the  plot,  as 
well  as  the  air  of  reality,  is  unusually  impressive.  The  novel  is  further 
of  interest  because  the  latter  part  of  it  displays,  in  the  handling  of  psy- 
chological insights,  the  transition  to  the  primary  emphasis  dominating 
almost  all  of  its  author's  subsequent  fiction. 

At  a  time  when  The  Tragic  Muse  seemed  to  fall  on  the  public  as  a 
dead  weight  and  the  magazine  editors  showed  little  interest  in  his  longer 
works,  James  decided  to  publish  no  more  long  novels— a  purpose  which  he 
maintained  for  a  decade  but  from  which,  fortunately,  he  later  relented. 
Instead,  he  determined  to  concentrate  on  short  stories,  which  found 
better  favor  with  the  magazines.  Too,  their  slighter  plots  would  enable 
him  to  enjoy  more  fully  the  triumph  over  the  "beautiful  difficulties"  of 
technique  which  now  began  to  absorb  his  enthusiasm  to  the  utmost.  In 
addition,  to  make  money,  he  resolved  to  write  plays  for  the  stage.  Why 
he  needed  the  money  is  not  clear,  for  he  seems  to  have  had  a  sufficient 
income  from  his  father's  estate,  but  the  expense  of  his  manner  of  living 
was  indubitably  large.  He  seems  to  have  believed  that  an  additional 
competence  might  free  him  from  the  irksomeness  of  adjusting  his  efforts 
in  fiction  to  meet  the  exactions  of  subject  and  length  imposed  by  maga- 
zine editors.  Whatever  the  case,  his  interest  in  the  theatre  was  of  long 
standing.  His  partial  autobiography,  Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother  (1914), 
dwells  lovingly  on  his  theatre-going  as  a  youngster  in  New  York  and 
Boston,  and  his  letters  written  during  his  first  stay  alone  in  Paris  reveal 
a  deep  passion  for  the  stage,8  as  does  also  .the  use  he  made  of  the  theatre 
in  The  Tragic  Muse  and  other  stories.  He  himself  had  published  three 
amateurish  playlets  and  made  a  three-act  drama  of  Daisy  Miller,  printed 

8  In  a  notebook  entry  in  1881  he  wrote:  "The  French  stage  I  have  mastered;  I  say 
that  without  hesitation1  {The  Notebooks  of  Henry  Ja?nes,  ed.  F.  O.  Matthiessen  and 
Kenneth  B.  Murdock,  1947,  p.  37).  The  Scenic  Art,  ed.  Allan  Wade  (New  Brunswick, 
N.  J.,  ty^U)  contains  some  previously  uncollected  comments  on  the  drama  by  James. 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  695 

in  1883  but  never  performed.  At  that  time,  he  had  experienced  a  great 
contempt  for  managers  and  for  public  taste,  but  in  1891  he  was  encouraged 
by  the  mild  promise  held  out  by  a  version  of  The  American  which  ran 
for  a  couple  of  months  in  London  and  attracted  a  little  attention  in 
provincial  towns.  Straightway  he  revived  his  ambitions  of  ten  years 
earlier  and  applied  his  energies  to  writing  a  number  of  new  plays.  One 
of  these,  Guy  Domville,  was  very  competently  staged  in  1895,  but  its 
producer  was  booed  on  its  first  night  in  London  and  it  soon  failed,  eliciting 
from  the  playwright  his  most  acrimonious  denunciations  of  the  "vulgar- 
ity" of  prevalent  taste.  Four  others  he  published  in  two  volumes  called 
Theatricals  (1894  and  1895).  After  wasting  his  efforts  James  seems  to 
have  become  reconciled  to  the  fact  that  he  was  destined  never  to  be 
popular  and  spent  most  of  his  time  reflecting  over  plots  for  short  stories, 
of  which  he  published  a  fair  number  during  the  nineties.  One  of  these, 
"The  Next  Time"  (1895),  has  as  the  hero  an  author  who  simply  cannot 
write  for  the  masses  but  always  believes  that  he  will  do  so  with  his  next 
book.  Another,  "The  Figure  in  the  Carpet"  (1896),  plays  ironically  with 
the  failure  of  critics  to  find  the  essential  secret  that  a  novelist  has 
woven  into  his  works.  But  James's  interest  in  plays  never  died,  and 
whenever  the  prospect  of  production  was  waved  before  his  nose  he  re- 
sponded with  alacrity.  Of  his  several  later  dramas  one,  The  High  Bid,  was 
produced,  with  fair  success,  in  1908.  None  of  his  plays,  however,  com- 
mands unqualified  admiration.  He  himself,  in  1902,  referred  to  those 
published  in  Theatricals  as  "wasted  experiments."  The  argument  has 
sometimes  been  advanced  that  James's  attempts  in  dramatic  form  supplied 
him  with  the  basis  of  the  technique  of  his  later  fiction;  but  such  can 
hardly  have  been  the  case,  for  he  categorically  declared  that  "the  drama 
lives  by  a  law  so  different,  verily,  that  everything  that  is  right  for  it 
seems  wrong  for  the  prose  picture."  9  He  did,  however,  make  fiction  out 
of  a  few  of  his  experiments  in  the  drama  and  frequently  employed  dra- 
matic terminology  in  his  discussions  of  fictional  technique.  The  super- 
abundance of  dialogue  in  his  later  works  may  also  represent  a  carry-over 
from  the  composition  of  plays. 

The  most  important  work  which  James  produced  in  the  nineties  is  in 
the  field  of  the  short  story  and  in  that  of  the  short  novel,  for  some  of 
his  tales,  in  spite  of  his  desire  to  emulate  the  conciseness  of  de  Maupassant, 
gained  such  momentum  in  the  act  of  composition  that  they  ran  on  to 
novel  length.  Of  these  the  best  are  The  Spoils  of  Poynton  (1897),  tne 
first  example  of  the  full  development  of  his  later  manner,  and  What 
Maisie  Knew  (1897),  in  which  he  sought  to  better  de  Goncourt's  attempt 
in  Cherie  to  treat  the  growth  of  moral  consciousness  in  the  mind  of  a 

9  The  Question  of  Our  Speech:  The  Lesson  of  Balzac  (Boston  and  New  York 
[1905]),  p.  112.  See  also,  for  a  dirferent  opinion,  Leon  Edel,  Henry  James:  Les  Annees 
Dramatiques  (Paris,  1931). 


696  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

young  girl.  The  Spoils  of  Poynton  is  almost  impeccable  in  structure  and 
seems  to  have  been  plotted  out  with  a  thoroughness  unusual  for  even  the 
thorough  James.10  It  is  a  story  of  a  mother  who  is  caught  between  her 
love  for  her  son  and  for  the  art  treasures  which  she  has  gathered  in  her 
home  at  Poynton— a  triangular  love  affair  involving  the  son,  the  girl  he 
marries,  and  a  girl  of  humble  extraction  whom  he  should  have  married 
in  order  to  safeguard  not  only  his  own  happiness  but  the  preservation  of 
his  mother's  "spoils."  In  Fleda  Vetch,  the  last  mentioned,  we  have  an- 
other heroine  whose  intelligence  and  delicacy  are  matched  by  moral 
integrity  of  the  rarest  kind.  The  plot,  characteristically,  is  slight  and,  as 
in  almost  all  of  its  author's  later  fictions,  serves  as  a  slight  thread  for  the 
embroidery  of  psychological  lace.  With  some  of  his  other  short  novels 
of  the  period  James  was  not  so  successful.  The  Awkward  Age  (1899) 
loses  itself  in  interminable  conversations,  and  The  Sacred  Fount  (1901) 
has  been  taken,  seriously,  as  a  parody  of  his  own  method.  In  this  last,  one's 
interest  reaches  the  nadir;  John  Hay  jocularly  declared  that  its  author 
had  written  it  "just  to  scare  us."  Fortunately,  it  was  soon  followed  by  the 
masterpieces  of  his  final  style:  The  Wings  of  the  Dove  (1902),  The  Am- 
bassadors (1903),  and  The  Golden  Bowl  (1904)— all  three  novels  of  con- 
?siderable  length. 
The  first,  which  James  described  as  a  "  'love  story'  of  a  romantic 
tinge,"  grew  out  of  a  plan  for  a  short  tale  and  is  the  most  conciliating  of 
the  three  novels.  It  is  centered  on  a  triangular  plot  in  which  a  pair  of 
lovers  plan  to  gain  financial  security  by  marrying  off  the  young  man  in 
the  case  to  a  wealthy  invalid  who  is  expected  shortly  to  die  but  whose 
nobility  of  character  dominates  the  situation  even  after  her  death.  The 
invalid,  Milly  Theale,  is  an  American  while  the  plotters  are  British,  and 
in  that  sense  the  novel  is  once  again  "international."  Recently,  critics 
have  had  a  tendency  to  put  it  at  the  head  of  James's  later  works.  But  the 
author  himself  preferred  The  Ambassadors,  a  story  of  a  middle-aged 
American  journalist,  Lambert  Strether,  who  goes  to  Europe  to  urge  the 
return  of  a  young  fellow-countryman  in  the  toils  of  a  love  affair  with 
a  French  woman  already  married  and  possessed  of  a  daughter.  Once 
Strether  is  made  aware  of  the  nature  of  the  relationship  existing  between 
the  lovers,  he  cannot  help  but  approve  rather  than  disrupt  the  situation  as 
he  finds  it.  Technically,  this  is  one  of  the  most  masterful  novels  in  the  Eng- 
lish language,  for  James  fully  succeeded  in  his  difficult  purpose  of  letting 
the  reader  know  nothing  of  the  plot  excepting  as  it  is  revealed  to  the  mind 
of  Strether.  The  story,  it  may  be  of  interest  to  recall,  was  finished  before 
The  Wings  of  the  Dove  and  grew  out  of  a  chance  remark  made  by 
Howells  which  was  repeated  to  James  and  resulted  in  the  wholly  imagi- 
nary situation.  In  the  third  masterpiece,  The  Golden  Bowl,  the  author  at- 

1,1  For  preliminary   notes   for  this  and  for  most  of  his  other  narratives  written 
between  1878  and  1911,  see  The  Notebooks. 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  697 

tempted  to  reveal  the  situation  to  the  reader  through  the  consciousness 
of  two  characters,  but  he  did  not  altogether  succeed,  for  in  a  few  in- 
stances details  are  given  from  the  "outside."  Once  again,  the  plot  is  lively 
but  almost  concealed  in  the  method  whereby  it  is  disclosed.  Maggie 
Verver,  another  American  girl  of  wealth  and  scruples,  marries  an  Italian 
aristocrat,  only  to  discover  that  he  has  had  a  liaison  with  her  best  friend 
and  that  he  has  renewed  the  affair.  Characteristically,  the  suspense  is 
aroused  by  the  gradual  revelation  of  the  circumstances,  and  the  resolu- 
tion of  the  complication  follows  in  course  as  a  direct  consequence  of  an 
understanding  of  the  nature  of  the  characters. 

In  one  of  his  letters  James  himself  appears  to  have  given  a  good  de- 
scription of  any  one  of  these  three  great  works,  though,  strangely,  he 
was  commenting  on  a  play  by  Dumas,  fils:  a  "long,  analytic  psychological, 
conversational  novel,  with  action  and  movement  reduced  to  their  min- 
imum, and  discourse  and  the  development  of  an  idea  raised  to  their 
maximum  . . .  intellectual,  argumentative,  slowly-moving,  copious,  full  of 
shades  and  subtleties"  and  far  removed  from  "the  quick,  instant,  obvious, 
visible,  tangible."  X1  As  Professor  Joseph  W.  Beach  has  pointed  out,12 
the  suspense  in  these  later  novels  is  inherent  in  the  method,  for  the  author 
doles  out  in  bits  the  information  in  regard  to  the  situation,  "never  enough 
to  satisfy  or  finally  enlighten  . .  .  until  the  end."  Thus,  throughout,  the 
reader  is  occupied  with  "just  finding  out  what  it  is  the  author  is  hiding 
from  us."  The  attempt  to  adopt  the  point  of  view  of  the  characters,  of 
course,  necessitates  characters  who  themselves  are  "persons  of  fine  dis- 
crimination, of  keen  penetration,  of  delicate  sensibility."  Bared  emotion 
or  violent  utterance  is  with  them  impossible.  Even  the  Jamesian  children 
possess  a  most  precocious  capacity  to  observe— and  to  express  themselves 
with  fastidious  discernment.  To  many  readers,  James's  most  typical  char- 
acters seem  utterly  unreal;  but  to  those  blessed  with  a  more  capacious 
faculty  of  attention,  they  assume  an  air  of  reality  which  makes  them 
dwell  in  the  memory  as  if  they  had  actually  been  personal  acquaintances. 

After  The  Golden  Bowl  James  completed  no  more  full-length  novels. 
He  left  behind  the  fragments  of  two  others,  The  Ivory  Tower  and  The 
Sense  of  the  Fast,  the  latter  somewhat  reminiscent  of  Hawthorne  in  its 
use  of  the  supernatural  and  with  a  plot  sufficiently  engaging  to  have 
provided  the  basis  for  John  L.  Balderston's  splendid  play  Berkeley  Square. 
He  did  finish,  however,  a  number  of  shorter  fictions  after  1903,  although 

11  To  Elizabeth  Robins,  June  25  [1891],  Theatre  and  Friendship:  Some  Henry 
James  Letters,  ed.  Elizabeth  Robins  (1932),  p.  39.  Later,  when  discussing  the  art  of 
fiction  in  a  lecture,  James  asked:  "How  do  we  know  given  persons,  for  any  purpose 
of  demonstration,  unless  we  know  their  situation  for  themselves,  unless  we  see  it 
from  their  point  of  vision,  that  is  from  their  point  of  pressing  consciousness  or 
sensation?"  (The  Question  of  Our  Speech...,  p.  98). 

12  The  Method  of  Henry  James  (New  Haven  and  London,  1918),  pp.  50 ff.  For 
James's  technique  see  also  The  Notebooks,  Intro.,  pp.  xiii  ff . 


698  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

he  was  distracted  for  a  time  by  a  ten-months'  visit  to  the  United  States 
in  1904-5,  during  which  he  lectured  on  "The  Question  of  Our  Speech" 
and  on  "The  Lesson  of  Balzac,"  and  journeyed  as  far  south  as  Florida  and 
as  far  west  as  California.  A  travel  book  which  he  had  agreed  to  write  was 
never  completed  according  to  his  plan,  but  he  rounded  out  a  series  of 
impressionistic  chapters  dealing  with  the  Eastern  seaboard,  especially  the 
cities,  which  was  published  as  The  American  Scene  (1907).  Its  chief  value 
lies  in  its  revelation  of  the  author  rather  than  of  America,  and  it  betrays 
the  incapacity  of  the  later  James  to  reproduce  life  in  slices  and  reveals 
his  preference  for  viewing  reality  through  the  screen  of  selected  impres- 
sions as  appreciated  by  someone's  consciousness— in  this  case  his  own. 
James  was  also  bothered  in  writing  the  book  by  his  own  ignorance  of  his 
subject,  and  he  confessed  that  his  spade  struck  bare  boards  with  every 
attempt  to  dig  in.  He  was  also  diverted  from  creative  activity  by  ill  health 
and  by  engrossment  in  the  task  of  arranging  a  selection  of  his  novels  and 
tales  for  the  New  York  Edition  (1907-17),  for  which  he  radically  revised 
such  narratives  of  his  earlier  days  as  he  included  and  prepared  eighteen 
prefaces.13  In  these  he  gave  a  sketchy  history  of  most  of  his  important 
fictions  from  their  initial  conception  to  the  time  of  publication  and  often 
discussed  critically  the  technical  problems  which  beset  him  in  contriving 
them.  The  Prefaces  should  be  read  after  a  perusal  of  the  fiction  and  in 
connection  with  his  Notebooks.  Despite  their  chattiness,  occasional  in- 
accuracy, and  incompleteness,  they  constitute  when  read  as  a  group  one 
of  the  few  outstanding  contributions  in  English  to  the  criticism  of  fic- 
tion from  the  angle  of  structural  technique. 

In  regard  to  the  theory  of  fiction,  James's  utterances  in  his  letters  are 
also  of  considerable  interest.  They  disclose,  for  example,  his  restiveness  at 
the  structural  ineptitude  of  Thomas  Hardy  and  his  willingness  to  take  his 
friend  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  under  the  fine-feathered  wing  of  his  ap- 
proval even  while  he  dismissed  Tolstoi  and  Dostoevsky  as  "fluid  pud- 
dings." But  more  valuable  than  such  highly  personal  animadversions, 
based  on  his  late  preoccupation  with  structure,  is  the  essay  on  "The  Art 
of  Fiction"  (1884),  which  gives  possibly  the  very  essence  of  his  ideas 
on  the  subject  during  the  most  flourishing  days  of  his  earlier  period.  Like 
all  of  his  other  criticisms,  this  is  not  a  rounded  discussion  but  consists  of 
a  series  of  reflections  prompted  by  a  lecture  on  the  same  topic  by  Walter 
Besant.  Stevenson,  it  may  be  added,  in  turn  replied  to  James  in  "A  Humble 
Remonstrance."  The  chief  feature  of  the  essay  is  the  wariness  with  which 

13  For  the  changes  made  in  the  texts  of  his  earlier  works,  see,  for  example:  the 
discussion  of  The  Portrait  of  a  Lady  in  F.  O.  Matthiessen,  Henry  James:  The  Major 
Phase  (New  York  and  London,  1946),  pp.  152-186;  Royal  A.  Gettmann,  "Henry 
James's  Revision  of  The  American"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  16  (Jan.  1945),  pp.  279-295; 
and  Raymond  D.  Havens,  "The  Revision  of  Roderick  Hudson"  PMLA,  Vol.  40 
(June,  1925),  pp.  433-434.  The  Prefaces  have  been  collected,  with  an  Intro,  by 
Richard  P,  Blackmur,  in  The  Art  of  the  Novel  (New  York  and  London,  1934). 


ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE  699 

its  author  shunned  establishing  doctrines  for  fiction.  He  was  willing  to 
affirm  that  the  novel  should  attempt  to  represent  life  but,  wisely,  asserted 
that  "the  measure  of  reality  is  very  difficult  to  fix."  Experience  was  to 
him  limitless— "an  immense  sensibility,  a  kind  of  huge  spider  web,  of  the 
finest  silken  threads  suspended  in  the  chamber  of  consciousness."  All 
efforts  to  distinguish  between  types  of  fiction— for  example,  the  novel  as 
distinguished  from  the  romance,  or  the  novel  of  character  as  differing 
from  the  novel  of  incident— he  denounced.  And  he  reminded  his  readers 
that  Dumas  and  Dickens,  as  well  as  Jane  Austen  and  Flaubert,  had  "worked 
in  this  field  with  equal  glory."  The  novel  seemed  to  him  "the  most 
magnificent  form  of  art,"  and,  as  such,  required  of  its  makers  fine  intel- 
ligence and  sincerity  above  all  else.  As  for  morality  and  fiction,  he  dodged 
the  issue  by  assuming  that  questions  of  art  were  questions  of  "execution" 
and  moral  problems  "quite  another  affair";  but  he  agreed  with  the  pre- 
vailing view  that,  since  "young  people"  were  largely  concerned  as 
readers,  the  novel  in  English  should  be  "rather  shy."  Zola  was,  indeed, 
"magnificent,"  but  his  extraordinary  effort  was  "vitiated  by  a  spirit  of 
pessimism."  Most  of  these  opinions,  it  may  be  guessed,  James  would  have 
repeated  in  his  last  days,  but  he  probably  would  have  been  more  dogmatic 
about  the  necessity  of  "magnificence  of  form." 

In  addition  to  the  many  reviews  and  critical  essays  of  his  youth,14  he 
left  a  number  of  important  performances  in  practical  criticism.  Of  these 
the  most  extensive  is  a  book  on  Hawthorne  (1879)  which  appeared  in 
the  English  Men  of  Letters  series.  This  work  was  composed  at  a  time 
when  James  was  too  enthusiastic  in  his  belief  that  only  an  "old  civiliza- 
tion" could  set  a  novelist  in  motion,  and  as  a  result  some  of  his  strictures 
on  Hawthorne's  provinciality  appear  to  have  been  overdone.  Emerson, 
Lowell,  and  Norton  also  were  made  the  subjects  of  essays,  at  the  sugges- 
tion of  magazine  editors,  and  he  wrote  two  volumes  on  the  life  of  an- 
other American,  William  Wetmore  Story  and  His  Friends  (1903),  a  tour 
de  force,  as  he  called  it,  to  commemorate  a  sculptor-poet  (1819-95)  wno 
had  lived  long  in  Rome  and  had  befriended,  among  others,  Hawthorne, 
Browning,  and  James  himself.  But  probably  the  most  remunerative  of  his 
critical  essays  are  those  that  deal  with  the  group  of  authors  whom  he 
came  to  know  in  Paris  during  the  seventies  and  eighties  and,  of  course, 
with  their  great  progenitor,  Balzac,  "master  of  us  all."  These  critiques  are 
to  be  found  in  French  Poets  and  Novelists  (1878)  and,  better  still,  in 
Partial  Portraits  (1888)  and  Notes  on  Novelists  (19 14). 

As  a  practicing  critic  James,  in  his  prime,  was  probably  more  like 
Sainte-Beuve  than  any  other,  although  he  owed  a  debt  also  to  Walter 
Pater;  but  his  awareness  of  the  incomplete  nature  of  his  essays  is  apparent 
in  the  modesty  of  his  titles.  His  adherence  to  the  doctrine  of  art  for  art's 

14  Examples  are  to  be  found  in  Views  and  Reviews,  ed.  Le  Roy  Phillips  (Boston. 
1908);  and  Notes  and  Reviews,  ed.  Pierre  de  Chaignon  la  Rose  (Cambridge,  1921). 


700  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

sake  was  not  at  all  close,  even  though  he  contributed  to  The  Yellow  Book, 
one  of  the  chief  rallying  grounds  of  the  British  esthetes  of  the  nineties— a 
periodical  which,  by  the  way,  was  first  edited  by  another  expatriate 
American  who  wrote  fiction,  Henry  Harland  (i 861-1905).  While  James, 
from  the  start,  cut  the  umbilical  cord  which  bound  author  to  work  and 
early  admired  the  finish  of  Flaubert  and  his  circle,  he  detested  the  base- 
ness of  the  subject  matter  of  the  new  school  and  found  the  concern  for 
moral  problems  which  Hawthorne,  George  Eliot,  and  Turgenev  had  ex- 
hibited more  appealing  than  the  worship  of  beauty.  The  results  are  ap- 
parent not  only  in  the  moral  consciousness  which  dominates  his  chief 
characters  but  also  in  his  criticism.  But  James's  approach  to  everything 
was,  nonetheless,  that  of  an  artist.  Even  when  he  stepped  for  a  moment 
away  from  his  singularly  faithful  preoccupation  with  writing  or  criticiz- 
ing fiction,  he  was  still  the  artist.  A  sincere  person,  he  said,  might  hold 
that  this  "so  easily  awful  world  is  the  last  word  to  us,  and  a  horrible  one 
at  that";  but  as  for  himself,  he  was,  as  artist,  in  communication  with 
"sources"  to  which  he  owed  "the  apprehension  of  far  more  and  far  other 
combinations  than  observation  and  experience  . .  .  have  given  .  .  .  the  pat- 
tern of."  Like  his  theological  father,  and  his  psychological  brother,  James 
the  novelist  preferred  "to  think  that  we  here,  as  to  soul,  dangle  from  the 
infinite  and  shake  about  in  the  universe;  that  this  world  and  this  conforma- 
tion and  these  senses  are  our  helpful  and  ingenious  frame,  amply  pro- 
vided with  wheels  and  replete  with  the  lesson  for  us  of  how  to  plant, 
spiritually,  our  feet."  15  Essentially,  he  was  a  humanist,  convinced  of 
moral  responsibility;  but  consciousness  rather  than  conscience  was  his 
theme. 

15  "Is  There  a  Life  after  Death?"  In  After  Days:  Thoughts  on  the  Future  Life  (New 
York  and  London,  1910),  pp.  224,  227,  230.  This  remarkable  essay  has,  happily,  been 
reprinted  by  Matthiessen  in  The  James  Family,  pp.  602-614. 


Chapter  35 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION 

There  is  no  better  means  of  dealing  with  the  dullness  of  the  life  close  at 
hand  than  to  satirize  it  or  to  exaggerate  its  foibles  to  the  point  that  touches 
off  an  explosion  into  mirth.  This  universal  form  of  escape  from  the  com- 
monplace is  one  especially  beloved  in  the  United  States.  Long  before  i860 
it  was  an  established  tradition,  and  during  the  last  four  decades  of  the 
nineteenth  century  it  was  quickened  by  so  many  merry  practitioners 
that  it  became  a  most  vital  element  in  the  literature  of  the  day.  When  a 
recent  British  critic  affirmed  his  belief  that  from  about  the  middle  of 
the  century  America  "experienced  the  most  extraordinary  spate  of  pro- 
fessional funny  men  ever  known  in  any  country,"  x  he  seems  to  have 
stated  a  fact  that  would  be  hard  to  disprove.  We  have  already  seen 
how  the  vogue  for  dialect  verse  and  for  local-color  fiction  involved  itself 
with  laughter  in  a  measure  only  less  consequential  than  it  soaked  itself 
with  tears  and  how  the  portrayal  of  the  commonplace  by  Howells  was 
redeemed  by  the  grace  of  the  comic  spirit.  In  truth,  one  must  search 
closely  to  find  exceptions  to  the  rule  that  American  authors  of  the  period 
were  all  humorists  of  one  sort  or  another.  Even  Lafcadio  Hearn  took 
part  in  founding  a  humorous  journal  in  Cincinnati,  Ye  Giglampz,  and, 
especially  in  his  earlier  works,  Henry  James  also  enlivened  his  fiction 
with  a  lambent  wit  which  eases  into  gentle  mirth.  Crawford  appears  to 
have  been  the  only  novelist  of  his  day  who,  in  theory  at  least,  spurned 
humor;  and  he  was  far  from  believing  with  the  aging  Melville  that  pes- 
simism was  to  be  relished  as  a  "counterpoise  to  the  exorbitant  hopeful- 
ness, juvenile  and  shallow"  2  that  made  such  a  bluster  in  the  eighties. 
Humor,  said  a  critic  of  the  fiction  of  the  period,  is  a  "serious  fact  in 
American  life,"  and  Howells  seems  to  have  been  in  agreement  when  he 
described  a  character  as  possessing  "that  humorous  brightness  which  may 

1  A.  C.  Ward,  American  Literature,  1880-1930  (1932),  p.  53. 

2  Melville's  letter,  presumably  of  1884,  in  the  Parke-Bernet  sales  catalogue  of  The 
Frank  J.  Hogan  Library  (1945),  p.  112. 

701 


7o2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AiMERICAN  PEOPLE 

hereafter  be  found  the  most  national  quality  of  the  Americans."  3  So  far 
as  literature  is  concerned,  the  British  reviewers  were  generally  agreed  that 
in  the  multitude  of  American  reprints  which  swarmed  on  the  London 
book  market  during  the  last  quarter  of  the  century  books  of  humor  con- 
stituted the  most  original  element— and  the  number  of  our  authors  who 
could  qualify  as  mirth-makers  was  so  large  as  to  make  them  believe  that 
Americans  were,  in  their  way,  more  humorous  than  themselves.4  The 
raw  material  of  The  Innocents  Abroad,  said  one  of  them,  resounds  nightly 
"through  every  saloon  in  Iowa  and  Montana,"  like  the  sound  of  the  der- 
ringer. One  can  only  sigh,  "Alas,  if  only  'twere  true";  but  certainly 
Harte  and  Clemens,  Cable  and  Harris  and  Eggleston  had  a  throng  of 
companions  as  they  rode  to  success  on  the  sparkling  wave  of  mirth. 

While  the  effort  to  analyze  humor  or  to  classify  it  is  a  peculiarly  futile 
wrestling  with  the  wind,  the  historian  may  nevertheless  aver  that  since 
the  early  years  of  the  nineteenth  century  there  had  existed  two  types  of 
literary  fun  in  America,  the  lowbrow  and  the  highbrow.  In  the  eyes  of 
the  British  at  least,  both  were  distinctively  autochthonous,  the  urbane 
mirthfulness  of  Irving  and  Lowell  and  Holmes  no  less  than  the  exaggera- 
tions and  horseplay  of  less  literary  drolls  like  Davy  Crockett,  Major  Jack 
Downing,  or  Sam  Slick.  These  latter  had  a  constant  succession  of  fol- 
lowers in  lowbrow  humor  throughout  the  century.  From  Artemus  Ward, 
Orpheus  C.  Kerr,  and  Petroleum  V.  Nasby,  who  delighted  newspaper 
readers  during  the  Civil  War,  to  Mr.  Dooley,  who  did  the  same  at  the 
time  of  the  conflict  with  Spain,  there  was  an  astonishing  procession  of 
fun-makers  emergent  from  the  ever-increasing  supply  of  newspaper  wits. 
Some  acquired  a  very  considerable  reputation,  and  most  were  known  by 
the  monikers  which  in  many  cases  became  their  by-lines.  The  lecture 
platform  as  well  as  books  often  added  to  their  fame.  Among  such  pur- 
veyors of  ephemeral  humor  during  the  days  following  the  Civil  War 
were  the  following:  Bill  Arp  (Charles  H.  Smith,  1826- 1903),  Josh  Billings 
(Henry  W.  Shaw,  1818-85),  Eli  Perkins  (Melville  D.  Landon,  1839- 
19 10),  The  D ]  anbury  News  Man  (James  M.  Bailey,  1841-94),  A4ax  Adder 
(Charles  H.  Clark,  1 841-19 15),  The  Burlington  Hawkey e  Man  (Robert 
J.  Burdette,  1844- 19 14),  and  Brick  Pomeroy  (Marcus  M.  Pomeroy,  1833- 
96).  The  most  widely  read  during  the  early  nineties  were  four  others  whose 
wares  were  syndicated:  Bill  Nye  (Edgar  W.  Nye,  1850-96),  M.  Quad 
(Charles  B.  Lewis,  1842-1924),  Marshall  P.  Wilder  (1859-1915),  and  J. 
Annoy  Knox  ( 185 1- 1906). 5  All  these,  and  more,  were  the  admired  pre- 
decessors of  Will  Rogers. 

1  James  H.  Morse,  "The  Native  Element  in  American  Fiction  since  the  War," 
Century  Magazine,  Vol.  26  (July,  1883),  pp.  365-366;  Howells,  The  Lady  of  the 
Aroostook  (Boston,  1879),  p.  201. 

4  Clarence  Gohdes,  America?!  Literature  in  Nineteenth-Century  England  (1044), 
Chap.  Ill,  "Humor." 

•r'  Frank  L.  Mott,  American  Journalism  (1950),  p.  482;  Walter  Blair,  Native  Ameri- 
can Humor,  1800-1900  I  1937 J,  pp.  102  ff. 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  703 

For  the  most  part,  these  men  began  activities  in  obscure  journals  in  the 
towns  or  smaller  cities  and  were  directed  into  the  field  of  humor  primarily 
because  of  the  demands  of  provincial  journalism.  Before  the  press  associa- 
tions sent  out  octopus  tentacles  in  all  directions  and  before  syndicates 
had  eased  the  difficulty  of  supplying  material  for  the  smaller  papers,  the 
readiest  way  to  obtain  news  from  a  distance  was  to  copy  it  from  other 
sheets.  Mirth-provoking  sketches  were  a  long-established  means  not 
merely  of  enlivening  dull  pages  but  of  inducing  newspapers  from  distant 
cities  to  provide  free  exchanges.  Tall  tales  with  fresh  rural  settings, 
boisterous  burlesques  of  local  events,  wise-cracking  yokel  philosophers 
commenting  on  affairs  of  general  interest,  picturesque  spellings— anything 
of  the  sort  might  prompt  a  reluctant  editor  to  send  his  proud  sheet  to  a 
minor  fellow  in  the  backwoods  if  he  thought  by  so  doing  he  could  obtain 
in  exchange  some  bits  of  fetching  fun  for  his  own  pages.  In  time,  it 
became  a  tradition  with  many  small-town  journals  that  the  "local"— i.e., 
local  editor— should  also  be  a  humorist.  When  the  press  associations  ex- 
tended their  services  into  the  provincial  areas  the  practice  of  course 
subsided,  though  it  died  a  lingering  death.  The  eventual  development  of 
syndicated  humor  brought  about  a  transfer  from  rural  to  urban  trappings, 
and  sporadic  sketches  and  letters  gave  way  to  regular  offerings.  But  even 
before  the  syndicates  took  over  the  leading  newspaper  funny  men,  the 
establishment  of  columns  tended  to  transform  the  nature  of  lowbrow 
mirth  into  something  different  from  the  exaggerations  and  bumpkin  wit 
of  older  days.  Eugene  Field  (1850-95)  is  sometimes  given  credit  for 
instituting  the  model  for  the  "colyumists"  of  somewhat  more  intel- 
lectual pretensions.  In  1883  his  column  called  "Sharps  and  Flats"  first 
appeared  in  the  Chicago  Morning  News,  to  illustrate,  if  not  to  supply  the 
pattern  for,  the  ablest  kind  of  newspaper  humor  that  we  have  had  since. 
Dialect,  when  Field  used  it,  became  more  like  modern  slang  than  the 
speech  affected  by  Josh  Billings  or  Petroleum  V.  Nasby;  and  assuredly 
Field's  products  were  more  sophisticated,  for  he  even  contrived  some 
parodies  of  Horace.  The  best-known  of  his  works,  however,  is  a  senti- 
mental poem,  "Little  Boy  Blue." 

Although  the  newspapers  served  for  years  as  the  chief  medium  of 
lowbrow  humor,  there  existed  also,  long  before  the  Civil  War,  maga- 
zines which  sought  to  profit  by  the  prevailing  popularity  of  fun  in  ink, 
for  example,  The  Spirit  of  the  Times  (1831-61),  which  reprinted  choice 
sketches  or  narratives  from  the  newspapers  along  with  news  of  the  theatre 
and  the  turf.  Their  number  increased  apace  as  the  century  grew  older. 
Most  famous  were  three  weeklies  distinguished  also  for  clever  cartoons: 
Fuck  (1877-1918),  Judge  (1881-1939),  and  Life  (1883-1936).  The  last- 
mentioned  was  a  repository  of  humor  somewhat  subtler  than  that  pub- 
lished by  its  rivals,  despite  the  fact  that  for  many  years  it  sported  pictures 
of  "The  Gibson  Girl."  In  time  it  succumbed  to  competition  with  the 


704  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

present  New  Yorker,  which  took  over  its  subscription  list,  and  its  name 
was  transferred  to  the  altogether  different  picture  magazine  which  now 
dominates  the  newsstands. 

The  books  written  by  newspaper  fun-makers  were  most  frequently 
mere  jumbles  of  miscellaneous  effusions  reprinted  from  the  press.  Usually 
they  commanded  very  respectable  sales.  There  were,  however,  a  few 
more  pretentious  volumes  of  lowbrow  humor  that  attracted  purchasers 
in  larger  numbers.  For  example,  Helen's  Babies  (1876),  by  John  Habber- 
ton,  cashed  in  on  the  perennial  amusement  afforded  by  a  bachelor  uncle 
who  undertook  the  supervision  of  a  couple  of  mischievous  children;  and 
Feck's  Bad  Boy  and  His  Pa  (1883),  by  George  W.  Peck  (1840- 19 16),  put 
to  use  a  somewhat  similar  subject,  with  such  eclat  that  its  author  was 
eventually  elected  Governor  of  Wisconsin.  Homely  subject  matter  also 
prevailed  in  the  several  mirthful  books  of  Marietta  Holley  (1836-1926), 
who  took  the  beloved  character  Samantha  to  the  Centennial  celebration 
in  Philadelphia,  to  the  World's  Fair  in  Chicago,  and  to  the  fashionable 
resort  at  Saratoga,  as  well  as  to  Europe.  Opie  Read  (1852-1939)  was  also 
unusually  popular  with  The  ]ucklins  (1896),  a  tale  of  a  Carolina  back- 
woods community  which  carried  his  name  beyond  even  the  wide  limits 
he  had  earlier  reached  as  the  homespun  humorist  who  edited  the  Arkansas 
Traveler. 

Occasional  snatches  of  the  work  of  the  lowbrow  humorists  are  good 
for  a  few  hearty  laughs— the  chief  test— and  a  certain  piquancy  still  lingers 
in  the  pages  of  those  who  spun  tall  tales;  but  most  of  their  fun  now  seems 
musty  or  too  obvious.  It  is  unlikely  that  any  writer  in  the  lot  can  be  re- 
stored to  great  favor.  A  further  word,  however,  should  perhaps  be  said 
about  Artemus  Ward,  probably  the  most  gifted  of  the  school  of  phonetic 
spellers,  whose  "goaks"  have  still  a  residue  of  the  ability  to  provoke 
laughter  which  they  exerted  on  Abraham  Lincoln.  In  1858  Charles  Farrar 
Browne  (1834-67)  first  introduced  "Artemus  Ward"  in  the  pages  of  the 
Cleveland  Plain  Dealer,  as  a  traveling  showman  writing  letters  to  the  press 
and  anxious  to  exhibit  his  waxworks  and  a  zoo.  Thereafter,  in  sketches 
and  lectures  as  well  as  letters,  the  genial  showman  gradually  submerged 
the  personality  of  his  creator.  Browne  was  born  in  Waterford,  Maine,  a 
Yankee  of  Yankees,  and  as  a  child  was  apprenticed  to  a  printer.  After 
working  as  a  journeyman  at  various  stands  in  New  England  and  Ohio, 
he  became  in  1857  city  editor  of  the  Plain  Dealer,  at  a  salary  of  ten  dollars 
a  week.  Earlier  he  had  published  a  number  of  humorous  offerings,  es- 
pecially in  the  Boston  Carpet-Bag.  No  sooner  had  he  made  his  pen  name 
almost  a  household  word  in  Cleveland  than  he  moved  back  East,  to  New 
York,  where  he  served  as  a  member  of  the  staff  of  Vanity  Fair,  a  short- 
lived magazine  founded  in  1859  to  rival  the  London  Punch.  His  peculiar 
"dead-pan,,  method  of  speaking  and  a  string  of  jokes  given  the  title  "The 
Babes  in  the  Wood'1  when  first  tested  in  a  lecture  in  1861  met  with  such 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION     .  705 

success  that  he  soon  was  in  demand  as  a  platform  entertainer,  and  in 
1863  he  was  booked  for  a  tour  of  the  Far  West.  From  the  Pacific  coast 
he  proceeded  to  Nevada,  where  he  spent  several  weeks  of  hiccups  and 
happiness  in  Virginia  City  and  met  a  young  newspaper  man  named  Samuel 
Clemens,  whom  he  she  dy  encouraged  to  submit  a  sketch  for  a  forth- 
coming humorous  volume.  Thence  Ward  went  on  to  Salt  Lake  City, 
Denver,  and  points  East.  His  stay  in  Utah  had  been  prolonged  by  an 
attack  of  fever,  and  the  resultant  familiarity  with  the  Mormons  prompted 
him  to  prepare  a  new  lecture,  "Artemus  Ward  among  the  iMormons," 
illustrated  with  a  panorama  of  poorly  painted  but  authentic  pictures  of 
the  Far  West.  Aieanwhile,  the  reprints  of  his  amusing  trifles  had  created 
an  enthusiastic  following  for  him  in  England  as  well  as  at  home,  and  in 
1866  he  appeared  in  London,  where  his  lectures  and  contributions  to 
Punch  bedecked  him  with  further  laurels.  But  the  hectic  round  of  en- 
tertainment which  accompanied  his  welcome  to  England  quickly  pros- 
trated him,  and  the  next  year  he  died  of  tuberculosis  in  Southampton, 
at  the  age  of  thirty-three.  He  had  published  only  two  books,  both  hodge- 
podges,  Artemus  Ward:  His  Book  (1862)  and  Artemus  Ward:  His  Travels 
(1865).  Both  were  widely  read  and  frequently  imitated,  not  only  at  the 
time  of  their  first  appearance  but  long  afterwards.  After  his  death  a  num- 
ber of  fugitive  pieces  were  put  between  covers,  especially  his  eight  letters 
contributed  to  Punch,  but  they  show  no  advance  in  ability.  As  is  the  case 
with  most  authors  of  Ward's  ilk,  the  corrosion  of  time  has  taken  the  edge 
off  much  of  his  satire;  but  many  a  good  thrust  is  left.  "At  a  special  Con- 
gressional 'lection  in  my  district  the  other  dey  I  delib'ritly  voted  for  Henry 
Clay.  I  admit  Henry  is  dead,  but  inasmuch  as  we  don't  seem  to  have  a 
live  statesman  in  our  National  Congress,  let  us  by  all  means  have  a  first-class 
corpse."  G  That,  indeed,  might  have  been  written  "the  other  dey"— if  not 
later. 


The  highbrow  humorists,  of  course,  had  as  their  chief  vehicle  the  great 
literary  monthlies,  and  a  surprising  amount  of  their  work  belongs  to  the 
field  of  fiction.  But  the  genial  essay  which  Washington  Irving  had  done 
so  much  to  popularize  had  one  exponent  during  this  period  who  impressed 
his  contemporaries  as  a  worthy  successor  to  the  author  of  The  Sketch 
Book,  namely,  Charles  Dudley  Warner  (1829- 1900).  At  present,  Warner 
is  remembered,  if  at  all,  as  the  collaborator  of  Mark  Twain  on  The  Gilded 
Age,  as  the  general  editor  of  the  biographies  in  the  first  American  Men 
of  Letters  series,  to  which  he  also  contributed  a  long-esteemed  volume 
on  Irving,  and  perhaps  as  the  editor  of  the  Library  of  the  World's  Best 
Literature.  His  total  output,  like  that  of  Christopher  Morley  today,  is  so 
miscellaneous  in  nature  that  it  defies  adequate  classification  by  perplexed 

6  The  Complete  Works  of  Artemus  Ward  (1899),  p.  258. 


706  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

librarians.  A  New  Englander  by  birth  and  a  graduate  of  Hamilton  Col- 
lege, he  spent  a  short  time  as  a  surveyor  in  Missouri  and  practiced  law  in 
Chicago  before  beginning  newspaper  work  in  Hartford,  Connecticut,  a 
city  in  which  he  was  for  many  a  year  identified  with  the  Courant.  His 
first  recognition  as  a  godson  of  Irving  came  with  the  publication  of  My 
Summer  in  a  Garden  (1870),  a  series  of  pleasant  essays  on  the  joys  and 
amusements  of  a  three-acre  farm.  This  book  continued  in  favor  to  the 
point  of  requiring  forty-four  issues  by  1895.  ^ts  success  was  quickly  sus- 
tained by  a  number  of  other  volumes  of  mellow  gossips,  such  as  Backlog 
Studies  (1873)  and  Being  a  Boy  (1878).  By  1892  he  was  so  valued  as  an 
essayist  that  Harper's  moved  him  over  into  the  position  that  Howells  had 
occupied  as  writer  of  the  "Editor's  Study."  The  chief  result  of  the  new 
assignment  was  that  Warner  devoted  more  of  his  talents  than  previously 
to  sociology  and  to  literary  criticism.  His  ventures  in  the  latter  field,  par- 
tially illustrated  in  The  Relation  of  Literature  to  Life  (1896)  or  Fashions 
in  Literature  (1902),  are,  however,  of  little  permanent  interest  save  as  they 
are  symptomatic  of  conservative  taste.  Warner  also  wrote  a  large  number 
of  travel  books  in  which  he  ranged  from  Egypt  to  California;  they,  too, 
are  marked  by  a  kind  of  gracefulness  and  by  mild  humor.  The  satire  on 
the  era  of  financial  pillage  to  which  The  Gilded  Age  has  given  its  name 
may  have  been  more  than  skin-deep  with  him;  at  any  rate  he  published 
between  1889  and  1899  a  trilogy  of  novels  in  which  the  ambitions,  loves, 
and  sorrows  of  the  fortune-building  set  in  New  York  were  subjected  to 
an  amiable  scrutiny.  The  trilogy  is  unimpressive,  for,  as  has  been  aptly 
remarked,  Warner  "never  quite  lost  the  essayist  in  his  fiction." 

In  the  eyes  of  his  contemporaries,  the  master  of  genteel  whimsy— the 
James  Thurber  of  the  eighties— was  Francis  Richard  Stockton  (1834- 
1902),  now  remembered  solely  for  his  sensational  story,  "The  Lady  or 
the  Tiger?"  (1882),  the  neatness  of  which,  unfortunately,  he  never  equal- 
led in  any  other  of  his  tales.  A  Philadelphian  by  birth  and  education,  he 
began  publication  in  the  fifties  with  narratives  in  the  manner  of  Dumas  but 
until  1870  was  more  active  as  an  engraver  of  pictures  for  the  periodicals. 
For  a  while,  he  was  an  assistant  editor  of  Hearth  and  Home  but  soon  went 
over  to  St.  Nicholas  ( 187 3- 1940),  probably  the  ablest  magazine  for  children 
ever  published  and  one  to  which  he  contributed  prolifically  under  two 
assumed  names  as  well  as  his  own.  In  1878,  when  he  gave  up  his  assistant 
editorship  of  that  journal,  he  was  a  well-known  writer  of  juveniles;  but 
during  the  next  decade  he  blossomed  into  one  of  the  most  highly  respected 
authors  of  the  day.  In  addition  to  humor,  he  had  to  offer  a  flexible  style 
which  rarely  lapsed  from  urbanity.  Of  the  more  than  fifty  volumes  that 
represent  his  work,  most  highly  prized  were  Rudder  Grange  (1879),  a 
collection  of  episodes  revolving  around  a  young  couple  residing  in  a 
canal  boat  and  their  maid,  Pomona,  who  takes  a  wedding  trip  that  ends 
in  a  lunatic  asylum;  and  The  Casting  Away  of  Mrs.  Leeks  and  Mrs. 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  7o7 

Aleshine  (1886).  The  latter  is  a  fantastic  novelette  dealing  with  two  mid- 
dle-aged widows  shipwrecked  in  the  Pacific  and  forced  to  take  refuge  in 
a  vacant  cottage  on  an  island,  where  they  dutifully  pay  for  their  board 
by  dropping  money  into  a  ginger  jar.  There  is  good  fun  to  be  found  in 
the  absurdity  of  the  situations  contrived  in  these  two  books,  and  Pomona 
and  the  two  widows  are  well-conceived  humorous  characters.  But  once 
their  creator  had  worked  up  a  ludicrous  complication  to  bowl  over  the 
readers  of  Scribnefs  or  The  Century,  he  soon  undertook  to  repeat  the 
performance  by  simply  altering  the  attendant  circumstances,  with  the 
result  that  the  several  sequels  in  which  he  presented  these  characters  anew 
strike  the  reader  as  anticlimactic.  More  readable  than  Stockton's  average 
performance  is  also  The  Vizier  of  the  Two-Homed  Alexander  (1899), 
a  variant  a  la  mode  of  the  story  of  the  Wandering  Jew.  It  begins  with  an- 
other shipwreck  and  clusters  its  episodes  around  Mr.  Crowder,  a  hero 
who  has  seen  Abraham,  has  been  intimate  with  the  Queen  of  Sheba,  has 
chatted  with  Napoleon,  and  at  length  has  turned  up  in  New  York,  married 
to  a  Quakeress  from  North  Sixteenth  Street,  Philadelphia.  As  Crowder 
regales  his  wife  and  a  friend  with  some  of  his  recollections,  including  his 
days  as  gardener  for  Nebuchadnezzar  and  for  Maria  Edgeworth,  the 
reader  finds  the  going  pleasant  enough,  for  the  old  rocket  of  a  plot  is 
sure-fire  and  Stockton  manages  to  extract  some  rare  humor  out  of  the 
situation.  Like  his  longer  narratives,  his  short  stories  are  extremely  varied 
in  contents  and  range  from  dullish  Christmas  tales  and  medieval  legends 
to  a  Virginia  hunting  yarn  in  dialect.  Among  the  more  diverting  are  "The 
Griffin  and  the  Minor  Canon"  (1885),  a  whimsy  of  the  pseudo-medieval 
order,  and  "The  Transferred  Ghost"  (1882),  a  humorous  ghost  story  with 
a  "snapper"  at  the  end.  A  sequel  to  "The  Lady  or  the  Tiger?,"  called  "The 
Discourager  of  Hesitancy"  (1885),  also  has  a  surprise  ending  but  is  de- 
cidedly flat— an  adjective  which  often  protrudes  itself  upon  the  conscious- 
ness when  one  considers  more  of  the  whimsies  of  Frank  Stockton. 

Two  later  highbrow  humorists  who  are  likely  to  come  to  mind  during 
a  survey  of  the  period  are  Henry  Cuyler  Bunner  (1 855-1 896)  and  John 
Kendrick  Bangs  (1862- 192 2),  both  natives  of  New  York  State  and  both 
veterans  of  the  editorial  chair.  The  former  early  joined  the  staff  of  fuck, 
with  which  he  held  a  connection  until  his  death,  and  wrote  a  large  quan- 
tity of  light  verses  and  fanciful  stories,  usually  with  a  metropolitan  setting, 
as  well  as  a  profusion  of  jokes  and  parodies  more  definitely  humorous  in 
nature.  He  failed  to  collect  a  goodly  number  of  his  more  comic  lyrics  in 
the  two  volumes  of  poetry  published  during  his  life,  Airs  from  Arcady 
and  Elsewhere  (1884)  and  Rowen  (1892),  and  consequently  his  clever- 
ness and  blitheness  are  more  in  evidence  than  his  mirth-provoking  prowess. 
This  is  also  true  of  his  collections  of  short  stories,  which,  however,  are 
more  highly  honored  than  his  verse.  Short  Sixes  (1890)  and  Made  in 
France  (1893)  are  g°°d  examples  of  his  efforts  in  the  field  of  narrative. 


7o8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  latter  is  largely  a  retelling  of  several  of  de  Maupassant's  contes  as 
adjusted  to  American  life.  Bunner  was  witty  and  urbane  and  clever,  but 
he  was  also  imitative— of  a  variety  of  authors  both  French  and  English. 
Perhaps  his  ultimate  contribution  will  be  the  example  that  he  furnishes  of 
the  recoil  of  the  more  sophisticated  wits  of  the  nineties  from  the  exploita- 
tion of  the  provincial  most  characteristic  of  earlier  American  humor.  Such 
may  also  prove  to  be  the  value  of  Bangs. 

The  latter  began  his  professional  career  in  1884  as  an  assistant  editor  of 
Life,  for  some  years  had  charge  of  the  humorous  department  of  Harpefs, 
and,  after  several  other  changes  of  position,  in  1904  took  over  for  a  year 
the  direction  of  Puck.  Lecturing  by  humorists  was  still  a  very  profitable 
business  long  after  the  regal  days  of  Artemus  Ward  or  Bill  Nye,  and 
eventually  Bangs  relinquished  all  editorial  duties  to  become  one  of  the 
most  popular  platform  entertainers  of  his  generation.  Of  the  sixty-odd 
volumes  of  his  prose  and  verse  the  most  precious  is  probably  A  House- 
Boat  on  the  Styx  (1895),  m  which  such  diverse  shades  as  Delilah,  Shake- 
speare, Lucrezia  Borgia,  and  Artemus  Ward  foregather  to  provide  the 
fun.  It  displays  its  author  in  his  most  amusing  role— that  of  master  of  a 
whimsy  reminiscent  of  Stockton's  but  a  little  more  up-to-date. 


There  are,  needless  to  say,  many  other  authors  who  might  be  mentioned 
in  a  cursory  survey  of  the  humor  of  our  period.  But,  when  placed  in  the 
scales  along  with  those  who  have  already  been  considered,  their  total 
weight,  both  in  popularity  and  excellence,  is  overbalanced  by  the  pro- 
ductions of  one  single  man— Samuel  Langhorne  Clemens  (1835-1910), 
America's  supreme  contribution  to  the  world's  store  of  fun  in  ink.  Like 
Artemus  Ward  and  Bill  Nye,  he  grew  up  in  the  tradition  of  lowbrow 
humor  and,  even  after  his  maturity,  rarely  forsook  the  exuberance,  the 
mockery,  and  the  irreverence  which  supplied  the  energy  for  their  bur- 
lesques and  satires  and  downright  nonsense.  Like  them,  he  was  also  almost 
wholly  indifferent  to  form  and  had  little  patience  with  any  technique 
save  that  of  producing  a  laugh.  Like  theirs,  too,  his  chief  purpose  as  an  au- 
thor was  to  supply  fun  for  the  masses,  and  his  preparation  for  his  life's 
work  was  afforded  by  small-town  newspapers.  But  mixed  with  the  in- 
stinctive barbarism  of  the  author  who  penned  the  outhouse  mirth  of  Date 
1601:  Conversation,  as  It  Was  by  the  Social  Fireside,  in  the  Time  of  the 
Tudor s  (1880)  and  the  naive  absurdity  of  "Those  Extraordinary  Twins" 
( 1 894)  was  an  imposing  gift  of  irony,  most  intellectual  of  the  modes  of 
humorous  utterance,  and  a  feeling  for  literature  which  led  him  even  as  a 
callow  river-pilot  to  read  Paradise  Lost  and  to  speak  of  Goldsmith  and 
Cervantes  as  his  "beau  ideals  [sic]  of  fine  writing."  7  Throughout  his  early 

7  For  his  reading,  sec  Minnie  M.  Brashear,  Mark  Twain:  Son  of  Missouri  (Chapel 
Hill,  N.  G,  1934),  Chap.  VI. 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  709 

newspaper  days  he  gradually  improved  his  style  until  at  times  it  became 
a  superb  vehicle,  not  only  clear  and  energetic  but  on  occasion  rhythmical 
and  marked  by  felicitous  phrasing. 

No  one  of  our  writers  of  considerable  magnitude  has  enjoyed  a  greater 
popularity  than  his.  Several  of  his  books  immediately  became  best  sellers, 
and  one,  The  Adventures  of  Tom  Savoy er,  stands  among  the  top-ranking 
sales-leaders  of  all  time.  The  reprints  of  a  number  of  his  works  are  still 
flourishing,  and  very  successful  movies  have  been  made  of  several,  as  well 
as  one  of  Clemens's  own  biography.  In  1935  the  governors  of  thirty-two 
states  officially  proclaimed  a  Mark  Twain  Day,  and  the  President  of  the 
United  States  served  as  honorary  chairman  of  a  national  committee  ap- 
pointed to  honor  the  centennial  of  his  birth.  With  the  acceptance  of  his 
writing  by  The  Atlantic,  Scribnefs,  and  Harper's,  and  with  the  favorable 
opinions  of  British  critics,  fortified  by  the  services  of  Howells,  the  reluc- 
tance of  his  more  cultivated  countrymen  to  admit  him  to  high  standing  as 
a  literary  figure  was  undermined.  Already  in  the  eighties,  he  was  consid- 
ered a  person  of  considerable  distinction  as  an  author  though  rarely 
admitted  to  the  ranks  of  the  choicest,  but  at  length  there  have  appeared 
many  people  of  good  taste  to  assert  that  The  Adventures  of  Huckleberry 
Fin?i  is  a  greater  novel  than  any  of  the  works  of  Hawthorne  or  Melville 
or  James.  The  fabulous  popularity  of  Clemens  even  after  his  death  and 
the  increasing  respect  paid  by  critics  during  the  present  century  are  hard 
to  reconcile  save  as  evidence  that  he  was  both  lowbrow  and  highbrow; 
but  undoubtedly  certain  adventitious  factors  have  entered  into  the  Mark 
Twain  legend  which  help  to  explain  why  he  has  latterly  been  the  recipient 
of  so  much  critical  attention. 

In  the  first  place,  a  large  number  of  new  volumes  of  previously  un- 
published or  of  fugitive  writings  have  appeared  in  print  since  his  death 
in  19 10,  especially  The  Mysterious  Stranger  (19 16),  What  is  Man?  (19 17), 
Mark  Twain's  Letters  (19 17),  and  Autobiography  (1924).  The  first  of 
the  above-mentioned  is  an  unhumorous  tale,  set  in  sixteenth-century 
Austria,  in  which  Satan  appears  as  a  benevolent  hero  demonstrating  to  a 
group  of  boys  how  the  moral  sense  of  man  is  to  be  considered  an  iniqui- 
tous thing.  The  second,  privately  printed  in  1906,  is  a  Platonic  dialogue 
meant  to  prove  that  man  is  a  machine,  wholly  moved  by  a  need  for  self- 
approval  and  determined  in  his  actions  by  response  to  pleasure  and  pain. 
These  works  first  drew  the  attention  of  many  critics  to  the  fact,  previously 
patent  enough,  that  the  illustrious  humorist  and  writer  for  children  was 
afflicted  with  a  streak  of  intense  pessimism.  This  aspect  of  Clemens  was 
somewhat  akin  to  the  mood  of  disillusionment  affected  by  "all  the  sad 
young  men"  during  the  heyday  of  cynicism  which  followed  the  First 
World  War;  and  the  same  impulse  which  elevated  Melville  to  a  high  place 
as  a  dissenter  from  the  sweetness  and  light  of  nineteenth-century  progres- 
sivism  also  bore  Mark  Twain  to  a  lofty  position  among  the  intellectuals 


7i o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

as  one  who  likewise  had  sipped  the  absinthe  of  disillusionment.  A  critical 
battle  of  no  trivial  order  ensued  in  the  magazines,  especially  after  Van 
Wyck  Brooks,  in  The  Ordeal  of  Mark  Twain  (1920),  attempted  to  ex- 
plain the  basis  of  Clemens's  unhappiness  as  a  frustration  produced  by  the 
thwarted  ambition  to  become  a  highbrow  artist  and  satirist  and  by  the 
curbing  of  his  natural  propensities  through  the  censorship  exercised  by 
his  "Victorian"  wife  and  his  friend  Howells.  The  older  guard  of  writers 
on  Mark  Twain  hotly  contested  any  such  interpretation  of  their  hero, 
not  unnaturally,  for  a  number  of  them  knew  the  Clemenses  and  HowTells 
far  better  than  did  the  younger  Brooks.  And,  indeed,  Mr.  Brooks  has  more 
lately  modified  his  opinions. 

Still  more  important  was  another  factor,  namely,  the  boom  in  the 
efforts  to  interpret  American  culture  as  the  peculiar  product  of  the  "fron- 
tier." Those  efforts  had  already  begun  in  1893,  wnen  Frederick  Jackson 
Turner  (1 861-193 2),  then  a  professor  of  history  in  the  University  of 
Wisconsin,  read  a  paper  before  the  American  Historical  Association  on 
"The  Significance  of  the  Frontier  in  American  History,"  an  essay  calcu- 
lated to  call  attention  to  the  results  of  the  previous  existence  of  an  area 
of  free  land  in  advance  of  the  settlements  in  the  West.  The  frontier,  so 
went  the  argument,  was  something  unmistakably  American  which  had 
exerted  a  powerful  effect  not  only  on  economic  development  but  upon 
the  national  intellect  as  well.  Turner's  ideas  soon  fructified  in  a  whole 
body  of  historical  writing  which  in  some  cases  carried  his  thesis  to  con- 
clusions far  beyond  any  that  he  had  anticipated,  especially  when,  after 
19 1 7,  an  extraordinary  freshet  of  nationalism  ran  its  course  among  Ameri- 
cans of  all  sorts,  in  part  a  concomitant  of  the  rise  of  the  United  States  to 
a  dominant  position  in  the  world's  economy  and  of  disgust  over  the 
failure  "to  make  the  world  safe  for  democracy."  In  the  course  of  time, 
students  of  literature  and  literary  critics  also  used  the  frontier  thesis  in 
their  efforts  to  explain  the  autochthonous,  and  they  soon  fell  upon  our 
humor  as  something  which  could  well  illustrate  the  theory.  The  low- 
brow variety  of  humorous  literature  was  especially  invoked  as  a  clear  ex- 
ample of  the  influence  of  the  frontier.8  Irving,  Holmes,  and  even  Lowell 
were  disparaged  as  contaminated  by  Europe;  but  Mark  Twain  was  elected 
as  the  peerless  exemplar  of  a  mirthfulness  native  to  the  frontier— in  a  word, 
the  most  American  of  American  writers  save  perhaps  only  Whitman. 
While  the  endeavors  to  make  Clemens  out  as  a  product  of  the  frontier 
resulted  in  a  closer  study  of  his  early  life  than  otherwise  could  have  been 
expected,  they  also  led  to  a  great  critical  hullabaloo  in  which  not  only  the 
older  school  of  critics  but  also  Brooks  and  the  frustration-theorists  were 
severely  chastised  by  a  newer  group  of  nationalists.  Eventually,  the  leader 

8  See  especially  Constance  Rourkc,  American  Humor:  A  Study  of  the  National 
Character  ([1931]).  "The  talent  of  Mark  Twain,"  she  maintained,  "was  consistently 
a  pioneer  talent"  (p.  218). 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  711 

of  the  opposition  to  Brooks  appeared  in  the  person  of  Bernard  DeVoto, 
whose  Mark  Twain's  America  (1932)  attempted  to  be  both  "an  essay  in 
the  correction  of  ideas"  and  a  social  history  of  Clemens's  milieu.  "The 
frontier,"  said  DeVoto,  "was  a  passageway  down  which  came  all  of 
America— all  its  conditions,  histories,  and  castes";  and,  of  course,  Mark 
Twain  was  the  author  who  brought  the  tradition  of  frontier  humor  "to 
a  climax."  9 

These  various  ideological  movements  have  served  to  attach  to  Clemens 
a  greater  intellectual  significance  than  his  contemporaries  ever  imagined 
and  have  made  of  him  almost  a  legendary  figure.  His  father  was  a  slave- 
owning  Southerner  who  drifted  westward  from  Virginia— to  Kentucky, 
where  he  married;  to  Tennessee;  and  then  on  to  Missouri,  where  he  kept 
a  store  and  practiced  law.  He  died  when  Samuel  was  twelve,  leaving  a 
large  family  destitute.  Though  born  in  Florida,  Missouri,  the  future  hu- 
morist grew  up  as  a  youngster  in  another  village,  Hannibal,  a  river  town 
at  some  distance  from  what  people  in  the  forties  called  the  frontier.  In 
1847  it  had  a  population  of  3500  people,  about  a  tenth  of  whom  labored 
in  slaughter  and  packing  houses  during  the  season  for  that  sort  of  work. 
Samuel  was  taken  from  school  at  a  tender  age  to  learn  the  craft  of  print- 
ing and,  like  Benjamin  Franklin,  published  a  few  scraps  of  youthful  joco- 
sity in  a  newspaper  owned  by  an  elder  brother.  A  period  of  working  as 
a  journeyman  in  New  York  and  Philadelphia  was  quickly  followed  by  a 
return  to  the  Middle  West,  but  the  depression  of  1857  so  reduced  pros- 
pects for  printers  that  in  that  year  he  apprenticed  himself  as  a  pilot  on  the 
Mississippi.  Until  the  Civil  War  brought  him  home,  he  was  a  riverman. 
For  a  few  weeks  he  was  with  a  company  of  Confederate  volunteers  bush- 
whacking in  his  native  state  and  in  July,  1861,  set  out  for  the  Territory 
of  Nevada,  of  which  his  brother  Orion,  a  Republican,  had  been  appointed 
Secretary.  There  he  prospected  for  a  short  time,  gambled  in  mining  stocks, 
but  soon  settled  in  the  more  remunerative  and  less  back-breaking  position 
of  reporter  on  the  Territorial  Enterprise  of  Virginia  City,  then  a  thriving 
town  teeming  with  mining  machinery  and  the  polyglot  population  sud- 
denly attracted  by  the  untold  riches  of  the  Comstock  Lode.  Since  1849 
he  had  intermittently  contributed  items  to  various  newspapers,  chiefly 
attempts  in  humor  and  letters  descriptive  of  his  travels,  and  under  the 
pen  name  Thomas  Jefferson  Snodgrass  had  tried  his  hand  at  grotesque 
spellings;  but  he  very  quickly  abandoned  such  artificial  aids  to  mirth.10 
It  was  on  the  Enterprise  that  his  journalistic  career  really  began.  When  the 
opportunity  came  to  distinguish  his  own  contributions  from  those  of  the 
other  "funny  fellows"  writing  for  the  paper,  he  abandoned  the  name 

9  Pp.  172,  252.  DeVoto's  article  on  "The  Mark  Twain  Papers,"  of  which  he  was 
for  a  time  custodian,  is  of  considerable  use  (Sat.  Rev.  Lit^Vol.  19,  Dec.  10,  1938, 
pp.  3-4,  14-15),  as  are  also  his  several  subsequent  books  dealing  with  Clemens. 

1  °  Edgar  M.  Branch,  k'A  Chronological  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  Samuel 
Clemens  to  June  8,  1867,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  18  (May,  1946),  pp.  109-159. 


7i2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

"Josh"  which  he  had  earlier  used  and  chose  instead  "Mark  Twain,"  the 
cry  of  the  leadsman  of  a  river  boat,  meaning  that  two  fathoms  of  water 
were  ahead  and  the  way  was  safe  to  proceed.  His  burlesques,  anecdotes, 
and  hoaxes  were  so  well  liked  that  many  were  reprinted  in  the  papers  in 
California  and  elsewhere.  But  a  quarrel  with  the  editor  of  a  rival  journal 
resulted  in  a  challenge  to  a  duel,  and  Clemens  in  1864  was  forced  to  take 
refuge  from  Nevada  law  by  moving  on  to  California,  where  he  wrote  for 
various  periodicals,  became  friendly  with  Bret  Harte,  and  added  to  his 
local  renown  as  a  leading  contender  for  the  honor  of  succeeding  John 
Phoenix  (G.  H.  Derby)  as  the  j oiliest  burlesquer  of  the  Western  press. 
When  a  Sacramento  journal  sent  him  to  Honolulu  to  describe  the  Sand- 
wich Islands,  he  carried  out  the  assignment  so  well  that  his  status  as  a 
humorous  reporter  was  definitely  secure,  so  far  as  California  was  con- 
cerned; and  upon  his  return  a  tour  of  lectures  proved  to  the  satisfaction 
of  all  who  heard  them  that  he  could  also  entertain  an  audience  from  the 
platform  as  well  as  the  great  Artemus  Ward  himself. 

Clemens  had  earlier  sent  a  few  pieces  to  Eastern  journals  and,  in  compli- 
ance with  a  request  from  Artemus  Ward,  had  dispatched  to  New  York 
a  tall  tale  called  "Jim  Smiley  and  His  Jumping  Frog,"  versions  of  which 
had  been  drifting  through  the  mining  camps  for  some  years.  This  story 
appeared  in  1865  in  The  Saturday  Press  and  was  widely  reprinted,  but 
few  people  east  of  Nevada  knewT  that  a  new  humorist  named  Mark  Twain 
was  in  the  offing.  When  in  1866  he  left  California  for  New  York,  paying 
expenses  by  writing  letters  of  travel  for  the  Alt  a  California,  he  was  prob- 
ably following  the  advice  of  Artemus  Ward.  He  was  soon  contributing 
to  the  New  York  Sunday  Mercury,  into  which  Ward  had  earlier  paved 
his  way,  and  he  approached  Ward's  publisher  with  the  view  to  having 
him  bring  out  a  collection  of  pieces  in  a  book.  The  publisher,  a  specialist 
in  humor,  was  unwilling  to  take  the  risk,  and,  instead,  a  fellow  journalist 
from  California  assumed  the  responsibility  for  the  first  book  by  Mark 
Twain,  The  Celebrated  Jumping  Frog  of  Calaveras  County  and  Other 
Sketches  (1867).  With  the  exception  of  the  title  piece,  it  contained  noth- 
ing of  unusual  merit  and  suffered  badly  from  the  amateur  status  of  its 
publisher;  yet  it  was  immediately  pirated  in  England.  The  East,  however, 
w  as  destined  soon  to  know  more  about  the  California  mirth-maker,  for 
Clemens  now  embarked  upon  a  new  trip,  to  Europe  and  the  Holy  Land, 
and  his  letters  began  to  appear  not  only  in  the  Alta  but  also  in  the  New 
York  Tribune.  It  was  in  the  familiar  role  of  humorous  traveller  that  Mark 
Twain  achieved  his  first  real  fame.  The  letters  from  his  pen  which  now 
appeared  in  the  press  were  in  competition  with  those  of  Eastern  experts 
who  were  also  on  board  the  tourist  ship  Quaker  City,  and  his  were  pro- 
nounced superior.  They  gave  the  human  side  of  travel  as  it  had  rarely 
been  given  before  and  ofTered  graphic  pictures  of  sights  and  people  when 
pictures  were  wanted,  for  he  had  a  sharp  reporter's  eye.  Above  all,  they 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  713 

embodied  in  rollicking  fun  the  idea  that  the  old  country  wasn't  so  superior 
after  all.  To  more  cultivated  folk  this  was  stark  heresy,  but  to  the  average 
newspaper  reader  it  seemed  a  delightful  and  fitting  retort  to  the  conde- 
scending upper  classes  of  Europe  who  had  jibed  at  the  lack  of  manners 
in  America  and  had  done  so  much  to  promote  the  cleavage  in  the  Union. 
Only  one  phase  of  his  reports  caused  trouble:  Mark  Twain  had  played  a 
little  too  roughly  with  the  sacred  names  and  places  of  the  Holy  Land. 

When  he  returned  in  November,  1867,  ne  was  immediately  asked  by 
the  New  York  Herald,  largest  in  circulation  of  American  papers,  to  sum 
up  the  trip;  and  when  he  went  to  Washington  to  act,  for  a  few  weeks,  as 
secretary  of  a  senator,  he  was  solicited  by  various  papers  to  become  a 
correspondent.  There  was  more  money  in  lectures,  and  so  he  abandoned 
everything  for  the  platform— except  for  one  project,  a  book  on  his  recent 
trip  that  he  was  requested  to  prepare  for  publication  by  a  subscription 
house  in  Hartford  widely  known  for  its  success  with  illustrated  volumes 
peddled  from  house  to  house  by  agents.  He  was  offered  ten  thousand 
dollars  in  a  lump  or  a  royalty.  Using  his  newspaper  letters  as  the  chief 
basis  but  revising  and  adding  more  material,  he  completed  the  manuscript 
and  then  proceeded  to  whip  up  interest  by  lecturing  from  New  York  to 
Iowa  on  "The  American  Vandal  Abroad."  11 

Meanwhile,  after  arduous  efforts,  Clemens  won  the  hand  of  the  invalid 
daughter  of  a  wealthy  coaldealer  and  mine-owner  of  Elmira,  New  York- 
pious,  conventionally  reared,  and  certainly  an  unusual  match  for  the  red- 
haired  reporter  and  lecturer,  ten  years  her  elder,  a  somewhat  lazy  man 
who  dressed  sloppily  and  smoked  "segars"  in  the  presence  of  ladies  as  well 
as  in  bed.  He  "got  tight"  once  in  a  while,  said  "It  don't,"  had  a  riverman's 
flow  of  profanity  that  elicited  admiration  from  the  toughs  of  mining 
camps,  and  was  a  restless  exhibitionist,  a  prima  donna  used  to  having  his 
own  way.  For  a  while  she  had  him  say  grace  and  read  the  Bible,  but 
eventually  he  won  out  and  reverted  to  the  anticlericalism  and  agnostic 
pronouncements  which  he  had  earlier  cultivated  in  reaction  to  the  Presby- 
terianism  with  which  his  mother  and  the  Hannibal  Sunday  school  had 
indoctrinated  him.  But  his  marriage  was  undoubtedly  one  of  the  most 
successful  on  record.  Money  had  always  been  an  important  factor  in  his 
activities,  for  from  childhood  he  had  been  a  breadwinner  for  his  mother; 
now  it  became  even  more  important  as  the  means  of  proving  to  his  wife's 
family  that  he  was  capable  of  supporting  Livy  Langdon  in  the  style  to 
which  she  was  accustomed.  Reporting  was  not  promising  enough,  lectur- 
ing took  him  away  from  home  too  much,  but  owning  a  paper  was  differ- 
ent. And  so,  with  funds  supplied  by  his  father-in-law,  who  also  presented 

11  Leon  T.  Dickinson,  "Mark  Twain's  Revisions  in  Writing  The  Innocents  Abroad" 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  19  (May,  1947),  pp.  139-157;  and  the  same  author,  "Marketing  a 
Best  Seller:  Mark  Twain's  Innocents  Abroad,"  Papers  Bib.  Soc.  Amer.,  Vol.  41 
(Second  Quarter,  1947),  pp.  107-122. 


7 14  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

a  furnished  house  and  a  carriage,  Clemens  purchased  a  third  interest  in  the 
Buffalo  Express  and  set  himself  up  as  a  gentleman  with  three  servants.  But 
The  Innocents  Abroad  (1869)  proved  that  there  was  money  in  books 
also— in  two  years  it  ran  to  the  phenomenal  sale  of  a  hundred  thousand 
copies,  and  its  author  had  luckily  chosen  the  royalty.  Not  till  he  saw  the 
statements  and  cashed  the  checks  did  he  think  that  literature  might  be- 
come his  profession.  In  addition  to  his  work  on  the  paper,  he  had  taken  on 
a  monthly  department  of  humor  and  comment  for  The  Galaxy;  but  he 
was  restive  under  such  regular  compulsions  of  effort,  and  he  soon  removed 
from  Buffalo  to  Hartford  and  became  a  maker  of  books.  As  a  free  lance, 
he  also  contributed  to  the  magazines  and  from  time  to  time  lectured  when- 
ever he  needed  extra  funds.  In  1878  he  estimated  that  the  income  from 
investments  was  sufficient  to  enable  him  to  live  in  Hartford  "on  a  generous 
scale,"  but  that  was  not  enough.  Clemens  was  a  true  son  of  his  age;  his 
pen  was  his  oil  company,  his  railroad,  his  real  estate.  Not  content  with 
returns  as  author  and  lecturer,  he  backed  a  number  of  inventions,  includ- 
ing a  typesetting  machine  and  a  new  process  of  making  engravings,  and 
founded  his  own  publishing  house,  Charles  L.  Webster  &  Company.12 

Gradually,  his  books  became  even  more  hurriedly  written  affairs  than 
they  had  been  at  first.  He  thought  of  them  as  means  to  provide  funds  for 
his  other  projects,  for  he  was  worn  to  desperation  by  the  failure  of  some 
of  his  ventures,  notably  the  typesetting  machine  and  the  publication  of  a 
biography  of  Pope  Leo  XIII  which  he  imagined  would  be  bought  by 
every  impecunious  Catholic  in  Christendom.  When  the  panic  of  1893 
reached  full  height  he  was  caught  in  the  crisis  and  went  into  bankruptcy, 
a  proceeding  which  aroused  world-wide  sympathy.  To  be  sure,  his  wife 
still  possessed  the  ample  properties  given  by  her  father,  but  his  position 
was  nevertheless  regarded  as  tragic.  He  had  the  courage,  however,  to 
imitate  Sir  Walter  Scott  in  his  determination  to  pay  off  to  the  last  cent  all 
creditors  who  had  lost  by  his  failure,  and  in  1895  embarked  upon  a  lecture 
tour  around  the  globe  to  wipe  out  his  debts.  Through  the  expert  handling 
of  his  affairs  by  one  of  the  original  Standard  Oil  barons,  H.  H.  Rogers, 
he  was  allowed  to  hold  his  copyrights,  and  a  new  contract  for  the  publica- 
tion of  his  works  was  arranged  with  the  firm  of  Harpers.  With  the  income 
from  lectures  and  books,  he  quickly  paid  off  in  full— and  then  went  on  to 
make  another  fortune.  The  publicity  given  his  bankruptcy  had  made  him 
more  popular  than  ever. 

But  the  strain  of  business  interests  upset  the  happiness  of  his  elaborate 
and  generous  style  of  living  even  when  he  removed  his  family  for  pro- 
longed stays  in  Europe;  and  spells  of  depression,  apparently  sporadic  from 
childhood,  now  increased  in  vehemence  and  frequency  as  he  grew  older. 

1 2  For  his  career  as  a  promoter  and  publisher,  see  Mark  Twain:  Business  Man,  ed. 
Samuel  C.  Webster  (Boston,  1946).  This  volume  contains  a  goodly  number  of 
Clcmcns's  notes  and  letters. 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  715 

He  would  bound  to  the  skies  astride  a  rainbow  of  enthusiasm  and  ambition 
and  then  fall  into  as  atrabilious  moods  as  ever  cursed  mortal,  damning  the 
human  race  and  coining  sardonic  maxims  of  the  variety  used  as  chapter 
headings  in  The  Tragedy  of  PudcFnhead  Wilson  (1894)  and  in  other 
books.  Moreover,  he  was  given  to  almost  hysterical  remorse  at  failure  of 
any  kind,  a  mild  example  of  which  is  his  extreme  chagrin  over  the  chilling 
reaction  to  a  speech  made  in  1877  at  a  birthday  dinner  in  honor  of  Whit- 
tier  and  involving  a  burlesque  of  Emerson,  Holmes,  and  Longfellow.  The 
chief  occasions  for  the  venting  of  his  savage  bitterness  were  provided  by 
the  deaths  of  relatives,  and  of  these  he  had  more  than  the  common  share, 
for  he  outlived  all  of  his  own  family  except  one  daughter.  Since  his  pilot- 
ing days  he  had  hugged  close  the  awful  belief  that  he  was  responsible  for 
the  death  of  a  brother  injured  in  a  steamboat  explosion,  and  the  loss  of  his 
first-born  child  he  attributed  to  his  own  cursed  negligence. 

The  works  in  which  he  embodied  his  "philosophy,"  like  The  Mysterious 
Stranger  and  his  "Bible,"  What  is  Man?,  are  of  little  value  either  as  litera- 
ture or  as  pessimism,  and  the  best  of  his  many  efforts  to  show  the  gullibil- 
ity of  the  "damned  human  race"  is  a  short  story  entitled  "The  Man  That 
Corrupted  Hadleyburg"  (1899),  a  very  amusing  tale  which  suddenly  traps 
the  reader  with  its  profound  indictment  of  human  venality.  It  is  a  shining 
example  of  its  author's  uncommon  power  of  invention.  Religion  was  per- 
haps the  topic  with  which  Clemens  most  consistently  dealt,  from  first  to 
last,  but  nothing  that  he  wrote  on  the  subject  is  worthy  of  a  Voltaire;  and 
his  lengthiest  discussion,  Christian  Science  (1907)  is  trash.  Like  the  Far 
West,  religion  did,  however,  provide  important  subject  matter  on  which 
he  could  release  his  humor  as  well  as  his  sarcasm,  especially  in  the  Extract 
from  Captain  Stormfield's  Visit  to  Heaven  (1909),  one  of  the  few  books 
on  which  he  labored  long  and  one  of  the  most  entertaining  of  all.  A  satire 
on  the  notions  of  heaven  as  a  rendezvous  of  saints  and  players  of  golden 
harps,  it  was  probably  inspired  not  only  by  a  picturesque  sea  captain  met 
on  Clemens's  first  trip  from  California  to  the  East  but  also  by  the  bour- 
geois, Congregational  paradise  imagined  by  Elizabeth  Stuart  Phelps  ( 1 844- 
191 1)  in  her  popular  romance  Beyond  the  Gates  (1883).  As  a  thinker, 
Mark  Twain  is  too  inconsistent  and  too  shallow  to  be  of  much  importance, 
and  the  endeavors  to  enlarge  his  stature  on  the  grounds  of  his  philoso- 
phizing are  of  more  concern  to  the  biographer  than  to  the  literary  critic. 
On  the  subject  which  he  was  best  fitted  to  discuss,  the  importance  of 
humor  to  mankind,  he  wrote  almost  nothing.  Perhaps  the  most  revelatory 
comment  appears  in  the  tenth  chapter  of  The  Mysterious  Stranger,  where 
Satan  speaks  as  follows: 

For  your  race,  in  its  poverty,  has  unquestionably  one  really  effective  weapon- 
laughter.  Power,  money,  persuasion,  supplication,  persecution— these  can  lift 
at  a  colossal  humbug— push  it  a  little — weaken  it  a  little,  century  by  century; 
but  only  laughter  can  blow  it  to  rags  and  atoms  at  a  blast.  Against  the  assault 


7i6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  laughter  nothing  can  stand.  You  are  always  fussing  and  fighting  with  your 
other  weapons.  Do  you  ever  use  that  one?  No;  you  leave  it  lying  rusting.  As  a 
race,  do  vou  ever  use  it  at  all?  No;  you  lack  sense  and  the  courage. 

How  much  more  competently  another  writer  could  develop  a  similar 
idea  is  apparent  in  Eugene  O'Neill's  Lazarus  Laughed. 

The  best  of  Mark  Twain  is,  of  course,  in  those  works  in  which  he  takes 
Satan's  advice  and  sharpens  that  "really  effective  weapon."  But  here  and 
there,  in  even  his  most  inferior  writings,  passages  of  brilliant  humor  may 
be  found,  though  for  the  most  part  they  abound  in  the  generally  cher- 
ished books  written  before  he  was  utterly  distracted  by  the  mad  pursuit 
of  more  dollars  than  he  needed.  Roughing  It  (1872)  applies  the  formula 
of  The  Innocents  Abroad  to  his  travels  in  the  Far  West  but  at  times  shows 
a  departure  from  the  autobiographical  method  in  the  direction  of  fiction. 
Yet,  even  while  writing  about  himself  Clemens  was  as  likely  to  be  romanc- 
ing as  not,  for,  like  all  good  humorists,  he  was  a  royal  liar.  No  one  of  his 
later  efforts  in  the  travel  genre  is  as  good  as  the  first  two.  A  Tramp  Abroad 
(1880)  fumes  rather  than  sparkles  and  is  merry  only  in  spots;  and  Follow- 
ing the  Equator  (1897),  ms  account  of  his  recuperative  lecture  tour, 
merely  illustrates  at  its  worst  his  constant  habit  of  fortifying  his  own  ob- 
servations with  those  of  other  travellers.  It  contains  only  one  short  passage 
of  sterling  writing— a  description  of  an  American  ice-storm,  whose  beau- 
ties came  to  mind  when  he  saw  the  Taj  Mahal. 

The  Gilded  Age  (1873),  which  foMowed  Roughing  It,  is  half  the  work 
of  Warner,13  a  novel  more  rewarding  for  the  mirth-seeker  than  might  be 
expected,  for  it  presents  in  Colonel  Sellers  one  of  the  most  hilariously 
amusing  characters  in  all  American  humor.  The  satire  on  the  political  cor- 
ruptness of  the  age  and  the  melodramatic  plot,  however,  leave  much  to 
be  desired.  They  nevertheless  did  not  fail  of  their  purpose  in  attracting 
readers.  In  fact,  they  were  so  successful  that  a  play  based  on  the  novel, 
written  by  another  hand  and  acted  by  John  T.  Raymond,  scored  such  a 
hit  that  Clemens  promptly  arranged  for  his  own  agent  to  accompany  the 
actors  and  nightly  collect  a  share  of  the  gate  receipts— more  than  seventy 
thousand  dollars  in  all.  The  quick  riches  of  the  theatre  always  lured  him 
on,  and  from  time  to  time  he  tried  to  make  a  killing  with  a  drama,  but 
he  always  failed,  even  when  he  had  Harte  or  Ho  wells  to  collaborate.14  So 
dear  to  his  heart— and  near  to  his  own  nature— was  the  quixotic  Sellers  that 
Clemens  revived  him  in  The  American  Claimant  (1892),  which  has  graver 
faults  than  even  The  Gilded  Age  but  boasts  a  few  happy  passages,  par- 

13  Ernest  E.  Lcisy,  "Mark  Twain's  Part  in  The  Gilded  Age"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  8 
(Jan.  1937),  pp.  445-447.  The  quotation  from  The  Mysterious  Stranger,  by  permission 
of  Harper  &  Bros. 

l*  Howclls's  account  of  his  collaboration  on  another  version  of  The  Gilded  Age 
throws  light  on  Clemens's  lack  of  method  in  writing  {My  Mark  Twain  [1910],  pp. 
22  ft.). 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  717 

ticularly  the  description  of  one  of  the  hero's  multitudinous  inventions,  a 
swearing  phonograph  destined  to  make  a  fortune  by  replacing  the  services 
of  mates  in  the  navy.  The  sequel  is  also  of  interest  in  that  its  tenth  chapter 
contains  a  defense  of  the  American  newspapers  against  the  aspersions  cast 
by  Matthew  Arnold. 

The  next  book  of  consequence  after  The  Gilded  Age  was  The  Adven- 
tures of  Tom  Sawyer  ( 1876),  of  which  more  than  two  million  copies  have 
been  sold— a  proof  of  its  long-enduring  power  to  delight  children  and  at 
times  their  parents  also.  Here  was  the  sort  of  thing  that  its  author  could 
do  well,  for  he  was  at  heart  a  child— his  wife  always  called  him  "Youth"— 
and  here  were  scenes  and  experiences  of  the  old  days  in  Hannibal,  so 
firmly  etched  in  mind  that  in  jumping  off  from  them  into  the  world  of 
make-believe  he  could  still  preserve  a  residue  of  seeming  reality.  A  happy- 
hearted  tale  of  prankster  boys,  it  can  never  be  criticized  by  any  one  who 
has  loved  it  as  a  child;  yet  it  has  its  faults,  especially  in  its  romantic  excess. 
When  in  1880  Mark  Twain  looked  over  the  record  of  his  sales  for  the 
preceding  year,  he  noted  that  Roughing  It  had  sold  1800  copies.  The 
Gilded  Age  had  fared  nearly  as  well,  but  The  Innocents  and  Tom  Sawyer 
each  had  run  almost  to  2200.15  Children's  books  did  pay  beyond  a  doubt. 
It  was  not  long  before  he  was  busy  on  another,  this  time  one  with  an 
English  setting,  The  Frince  and  the  Pauper  (1882).  His  lectures  in  Eng- 
land had  been  gloriously  successful  when  delivered  almost  ten  years  be- 
fore, and,  since  he  had  found  a  way  to  circumvent  the  pirates,  he  was 
deriving  a  good  income  from  his  British  publisher  also.  The  new  story 
was  in  part  another  bid  for  the  British  market,  though  it  was  liked  better 
at  home,  where  the  exchange  of  position  by  Tom  Canty  and  Edward  VI 
appeared  less  fantastic. 

After  the  inevitable  inferior  work  that  seemed  always  to  follow  one 
of  his  sturdier  attempts,  Clemens  proceeded  to  make  a  whole  book  about 
his  piloting  experiences  on  the  river.  At  the  suggestion  of  Howells,  he  had 
in  1875  contributed  to  The  Atlantic  a  series  of  articles  called  "Old  Times 
on  the  Mississippi,"  and  now  he  would  make  a  quick  trip  to  renew  old 
memories  and  round  out  his  material.  The  trip  he  enjoyed  but  not  the 
making  of  Life  on  the  Mississippi  (1883),  which  broke  down  into  two 
inharmonious  parts  and  had  to  be  padded  with  all  sorts  of  extraneous 
matter  to  make  the  desired  length.  The  best  writing  is  to  be  found  in  the 
chapters  (IV-XVII)  taken  over  from  The  Atlantic,  which  are  often  said 
to  represent  his  style  at  its  height.  Despite  its  shortcomings,  the  book  is 
usually  rated  among  his  chief  works;  its  humor  is  seconded  by  matchless 
description,  and  to  this  day  it  has  not  been  supplanted  as  an  account  of 
riverboating  during  the  period  before  the  railroads  usurped  the  place  of 
waterways  as  the  chief  arteries  of  traffic.  With  the  Mississippi  scenes  fresh 

15  Clemens  to  Howells,  March  24,  1880  (MS,  Houghton  Library,  Harvard 
University) . 


7i8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  mind  and  memories  stirred  by  the  visit  to  Hannibal,  Clemens  picked 
up  again  a  story  laid  aside  seven  years  before  and  toward  the  summer  of 
1883  renewed  his  interest  in  another  tale  similar  to  Tom  Sawyer.  Unlike 
Life  on  the  Mississippi,  it  moved  along  quickly,  there  was  no  "running 
short  of  stuff  or  words,"  and  the  composition  elicited  all  the  enthusiasm 
which  had  marked  his  heartiest  efforts  of  earlier  days.  Tom  Sawyer  was 
now  second  in  total  sales  only  to  The  Innocents,  and  this  new  story  was 
an  even  better  one  than  that— one  with  which  he  hoped  to  make  an  un- 
stinted coup.  With  it  he  brought  forth  his  masterpiece— and  with  it  he 
made  his  debut  as  his  own  publisher. 

Forty  thousand  copies  were  made  ready  in  advance  of  publication,  and 
sales  were  further  stimulated  when  the  word  was  spread  that  the  Concord 
Public  Library  had  banned  it  as  improper  for  young  people.  But  few 
critics  saw  in  the  new  book  a  masterpiece.16  It  was  many  a  year  before 
the  public  could  be  persuaded  that  Samuel  Clemens's  supreme  accomplish- 
ment was  not  The  Adventures  of  Tom  Sawyer  but  its  sequel,  The  Adven- 
tures of  Huckleberry  Finn  (1884).  Sloppy  in  construction,  sometimes  in- 
consistent, often  as  melodramatic  as  the  romances  which  its  author  bur- 
lesqued, it  is  yet  not  only  his  chef  d'oeuvre  but  one  of  the  most  universally 
admired  narratives  in  the  history  of  American  literature— a  turbulence  of 
boyish  adventure  as  varied  as  the  currents  of  the  river  whose  course  sup- 
plies the  setting  and  a  delightful  compound  of  humor,  satire,  and  local 
color.  Such  a  collection  of  characters  no  other  American  novel  can  equal 
— Huck,  Tom,  Negro  Jim,  the  wandering  charlatans— the  Duke  and  the 
King— and  all  the  others.  To  many  readers  the  entrance  of  Tom  Sawyer 
near  the  end  diminishes  interest  by  introducing  humor  of  a  too  factitious 
type— but  to  others  the  rescue  of  Jim  is,  as  Clemens  thought  it  to  be,  an  up- 
roarious climax  of  howling  fun.  In  the  book,  of  course,  is  to  be  found  the 
source  of  O.  Henry's  "gentle  grafters"  and  of  much  else  besides.  The  idea 
of  putting  the  whole  tale  in  the  mouth  of  Huckleberry  Finn  was  a  stroke 
of  rarest  genius,  for  by  so  doing  the  author  added  materially  not  only  to 
the  humor  but  to  the  seeming  reality  and  illusion  of  unity  as  well.  Into 
the  speech  of  the  characters  went  careful  work  in  differentiating'  dialects, 
and  in  an  explanatory  note  Clemens  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  he 
had  painstakingly  represented  Missouri  Negro  speech,  the  backwoods 
lingo  of  the  Southwest,  and  four  varieties  of  the  "ordinary  'Pike  County' 
dialect."  And  yet  it  is  Huck  who  does  the  talking.  Clemens  nowhere  else 
surpassed  the  skill  with  which  he  solved  the  difficult  problem  posed  by 
the  array  of  characters  assembled  in  this  story. 

The  next  book,  A  Connecticut  Yankee  in  King  Arthur's  Court  (1889), 
fared  better  with  American  critics,  and  a  large  following  immediately  re- 

16  A.  L.  Vogclback,  "The  Publication  and  Reception  of  Huckleberry  Finn  in 
America."  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  11  (Nov.  1939),  pp.  260-272.  For  the  genesis  of  the  novel, 
see  Bernard  DeVoto,  Mark  Twain  at  Work  (Cambridge,  1942),  pp.  45-104. 


MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION  719 

joiced  in  its  burlesque  of  the  knight-errantry  so  nobly  poetized  in  the  verse 
of  the  day.  After  the  romance  of  the  Mississippi  River,  there  is  undoubt- 
edly a  decline  in  the  power  of  this  endeavor  to  contrast  life  as  described 
by  Malory  with  the  world  of  a  Yankee  mechanic.  As  usual,  Clemens  had 
begun  the  narrative  several  years  earlier  but  for  a  while  maintained  a 
purpose  never  to  write  another  book,  and  it  was  only  the  expenses  of  his 
business  enterprises  and  of  his  own  menage  that  eventually  set  him  to 
work  again.17  The  absurd  situation  which  serves  as  the  basis  of  the  story 
furnished  a  store  of  humorous  episodes  but  not  enough  to  sustain  a  whole 
book,  and  occasionally  the  farce  comes  nearer  being  silly  than  amusing. 
The  satire  on  monarchy  today  seems  somewhat  like  a  discharge  of  small 
arms  against  a  straw  figure.  Yet  it  has  been  used  to  fortify  the  argument 
that  its  author  was  a  profound  social  critic  railing  at  tyranny.  The  fact  is 
that  upon  occasion  he  was,  just  as  he  was  also  a  firm  admirer  of  the  Ger- 
man Emperor  and  a  believer  that  the  establishment  of  British  rule  was  the 
best  thing  that  ever  happened  to  India.  When  English  critics  were  omin- 
ously silent  or  showed  their  resentment  at  the  satire  in  A  Connecticut 
Yankee,  Mark  Twain  promptly  explained  his  purpose  as  an  author  by 
writing  a  letter  to  Andrew  Lang18  in  which  he  avowed  that  he  would 
have  been  satisfied  at  any  time  "to  simply  amuse"  the  masses— to  supply 
fun  for  the  million. 

Of  the  rest  of  his  works  little  more  needs  to  be  said  excepting  that  the 
books  were  many  and  poor  in  quality.  His  attempts  to  revive  Tom  Sawyer 
by  taking  him  abroad  or  otherwise  providing  him  with  adventures  are 
sad  stuff  indeed,  as  are  also  his  efforts  to  make  characters  out  of  Adam 
and  Eve  or  his  book  advancing  the  Baconian  theory,  Is  Shakespeare  Dead? 
(1909).  He  probably  worked  hardest  on  Personal  Recollections  of  Joan 
of  Arc  (1896),  a  romance  written  to  profit  by  the  vogue  for  historical 
fiction  then  at  its  nineteenth-century  zenith.  It  shows  again  the  hostility 
to  the  "feudalism"  of  Europe  so  rampant  in  less  cultivated  Americans  but 
is  more  impressive  as  an  illustration  of  Clemens's  fondness  for  the  Maid  of 
France.  Of  humor  it  has  next  to  nothing  in  its  pages.  "The  Man  That  Cor- 
rupted Hadleyburg"  and  Captain  Stormfield's  Visit  to  Heaven  are  not 
only  unsurpassed  but  rarely  approximated  by  anything  which  he  pub- 
lished after  A  Connecticut  Yankee. 

In  time,  the  works  of  Mark  Twain  will  be  further  winnowed,  but  there 
can  be  no  question  as  to  the  cordiality  with  which  Americans  pride  them- 
selves on  his  accomplishment.  To  find  fault  with  him  at  the  present  time 
seems  almost  as  ungrateful  business  as  was  pointing  out  the  shortcomings 
of  Longfellow  in  i860.  And  the  rest  of  the  world  has  long  since  also 
learned  to  love  his  mirth  and  to  admire  his  representative  qualities.  In 

17  The  composition  is  described  in  John  B.  Hoben,  "Mark  Twain's  A  Connecticut 
Yankee:  A  Genetic  Study,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  18  (Nov.  1946),  pp.  197-218. 

18  Mark  Twain's  Letters,  2  Vols.  ([1917D,  Vol.  2,  pp.  525-528. 


72o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AA4ERICAN  PEOPLE 

England  he  has  been  almost  as  widely  read  as  at  home,  in  Germany  his 
books  have  multiplied  in  reprints,  and  today  in  Russia  he  enjoys  a  favor 
astounding  in  scope  and  in  heartiness.  Like  Emerson  and  Whitman,  he 
seems  to  reflect  the  qualities  of  his  country  with  unusual  fullness,  and  he 
transcends  all  other  American  writers  in  exhibiting  the  cheerful  irrever- 
ence which  may  be  characteristic  of  us  as  a  people. 


Chapter  36 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE 

When  one  attempts  a  survey  of  the  verse  produced  in  America  from  the 
time  that  Aldrich,  Miller,  Howells,  Stedman,  and  Lanier  grounded  their 
reputations  to  the  end  of  the  century,  when  Moody,  Santayana,  Robinson, 
and  Masters  were  beginning  to  publish,  the  chronicle  is  likely  to  prove 
an  ungrateful  record  abounding  in  the  names  of  third-rate  poets  who 
have  already  entered  the  bone  yard  or  who  seem  destined  shortly  to  ar- 
rive there.  Moreover,  the  multitudes  of  fledglings  refuse  to  be  huddled 
into  the  neat  pens  of  classification.  Even  the  geographical  approach  is  of 
little  utility,  for  the  migration  of  American  writers  from  their  native 
regions  is  a  fact  as  notorious  as  the  mobility  of  the  population  at  large, 
and  the  author  who  died  in  the  house  in  which  he  was  born  is  in  truth 
a  black  swan.  We  may  perhaps  begin  with  a  few  examples  of  the  most 
popular  poets.  As  has  been  pointed  out  in  a  previous  chapter,  James  Whit- 
comb  Riley  with  his  "folksy"  verse  became  the  sales-leader  of  his  genera- 
tion. In  addition  to  Will  Carleton,  he  had  as  his  chief  rival  among  the 
newer  poets  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  (1850- 19 19),  a  Wisconsin  woman 
whose  fourth  volume,  Poems  of  Passion,  was  a  sensation  in  1883  as  a  result 
of  publicity  over  its  supposed  immorality.  One  reads  the  book  today  and 
wonders  where  the  passion  is  to  be  found,  but  at  the  time  it  was  consid- 
ered extremely  daring,  and  certainly  it  established  its  author  as  a  celebrity 
whose  platitudes  and  feeble  intelligence  were  thereafter  as  marketable  as 
lollipops.  For  a  while  Mrs.  Wilcox  furnished  a  daily  poem  for  a  newspaper 
syndicate;  and  in  1901,  when  sent  by  Hearst  to  London  to  cover  the 
funeral  of  Victoria,  she  scored  an  international  hit  with  her  verses  on 
"The  Queen's  Last  Ride."  Readers  by  the  thousands  responded  to  her 
heart-breaking  and  moralizing,  though  all  of  her  lines  were  not  booked 
for  the  popularity  of 

Laugh,  and  the  world  laughs  with  you; 
Weep,  and  you  weep  alone. 

721 


722  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Next  in  favor  to  the  sentimental  rhymes  of  Riley,  Mrs.  Wilcox,  and 
Eugene  Field  were  probably  the  products  of  the  many  new  writers  of 
light  verse,  for  the  nineties  were  as  fond  of  clever  humorous  trifles  as  the 
seventies  and  eighties  had  been  of  the  less  sophisticated  jocosity  of  the  dia- 
lect poets.  H.  C.  Bunner  and  Guy  Wetmore  Carryl  (187 3- 1904)  were 
among  the  leaders  in  this  class.  The  latter's  Fables  for  the  Frivolous  (1898) 
and  Mother  Goose  for  Grouun-Ups  (1900)  were  matched  by  many  an- 
other volume  by  men  like  Samuel  Minturn  Peck  (1 854-1938),  now  re- 
membered at  Yale  if  nowhere  else  for  the  song  called  "The  Knot  of  Blue," 
or  Richard  Kendall  Munkittrick  (1853-1911),  for  a  time  an  editor  of 
Judge.  Several  other  authors  of  vers  de  societe  better  known  in  the  pres- 
ent century  were  also  active  in  the  nineties,  such  as  Oliver  Herford  (1863- 
1935),  Gelett  Burgess  (1866-  ),  of  "Purple  Cow"  fame,  and  Carolyn 
Wells  (d.  1942),  the  chief  anthologist  of  the  genre. 

Though  his  numerous  attempts  at  humor  have  been  forgotten  in  favor 
of  his  religious  verse,  a  certain  interest  still  survives  in  the  work  of  John 
Banister  Tabb  (1845-1909),  one  of  the  foremost  Catholic  poets  of  America 
and  a  master  of  the  epigram.  Son  of  a  wealthy  Virginia  family,  he  was 
captured  during  the  Civil  War  and  confined  in  the  same  prison  camp  with 
Lanier,  whom  he  came  to  love,  to  imitate,  and  to  honor  with  a  half-dozen 
lyrics.  Immediately  after  the  war  Tabb  moved  to  Baltimore,  that  haven 
of  Southern  intellects,  to  study  music;  and  soon  thereafter  he  became  a 
teacher  and  was  converted  to  Catholicism.  Upon  being  ordained  a  priest, 
he  remained  near  Baltimore,  at  St.  Charles'  College  where  he  was  an 
eccentric  but  efficient  teacher  of  grammar.  In  1882  he  privately  printed  a 
little  volume,  but  for  the  most  part  scattered  his  offerings  in  the  maga- 
zines and  neglected  to  collect  some  of  his  better  efforts  in  such  books  as 
Foems  (1894)  and  Lyrics  (1897).1  When  the  periodicals  showed  a  prefer- 
ence for  his  quatrains  or  poems  of  two  stanzas,  he  concentrated  on  brevity 
and  often  packed  a  clever  image  or  more  than  a  bit  of  wit  into  his  prod- 
ucts. Andrew  Lang  once  complimented  him  but  misspelled  his  name,  a 
circumstance  which  led  to  the  following: 

O  why  should  Old  Lang  Sign 

A  compliment  to  me 

(If  it  indeed  is  mine), 

And  filch  my  final  b? 

To  him,  as  to  the  Dane 

In  his  soliloquy, 

This  question  comes  again, — 

"2  b  or  not  2  b" 

1  His  uncollected  verses,  as  well  as  a  number  never  published,  are  to  be  found  in 
Francis  A.  Litz,  Father  Tabb  (1923).  Other  uncollected  bits  appear  in  Letters  Grave 
and  Gay,  ed.  Litz  (Washington,  1950). 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE  723 

His  "noble  numbers"  show  not  only  the  devoutness  of  the  churchman 
and  a  love  of  children  and  nature  but  a  trenchancy  which  continues  many 
of  them  in  favor.  He  has  often  been  compared  with  Herrick  or,  better 
still,  with  the  seventeenth-century  metaphysical  poets  with  whom  he 
shared  a  relish  for  a  bold  metaphor  or  an  odd  title;  but  his  chief  passion 
was  for  Keats  and  Tennyson.  Loyal  Southerner  that  he  was,  he  admired 
Poe  as  well  as  Lanier,  and  in  "The  Difference"  even  used  the  Negro  dia- 
lect to  enforce  a  homily.  To  the  Bible,  however,  he  was  more  indebted 
than  to  any  other  source.  His  wit  was  always  his  own. 

The  concentrated  verses  of  Father  Tabb  will  be  all  the  more  appreciated 
if  compared  with  those  of  another  Southerner  who  seemed  in  the  eighties 
to  give  promise  of  carrying  on  the  work  left  unfinished  by  Lanier,  namely, 
Madison  Cawein  (1865-1914).  A  graduate  of  the  Male  High  School  of 
Louisville,  Kentucky,  he  wrote  his  early  poems  while  working  as  a 
cashier  in  a  pool  hall  frequented  by  gamblers,  and  the  publicizing  of  this 
fact,  plus  the  generous  praise  of  Howells  in  Harper's,  gave  his  first  book, 
Blooms  of  the  Berry  (1887),  a  fair  hearing.  But  his  muse  was  not  destined 
for  public  favor,  and  the  young  poet  escaped  the  pool  hall  only  to  dabble 
in  real  estate  and  the  stock  market,  reserving,  however,  his  afternoons 
for  writing  verse  in  a  forest.  Early  in  the  present  century,  he  began  to 
lose  in  his  speculations,  and  the  modest  fortune  which  he  had  accumulated 
gradually  shrank  away,  along  with  his  health  and  talents.  There  were 
those  who  saw  in  Cawein's  nature  poems  exceptional  powers,  and  Ed- 
mund Gosse  provided  a  laudatory  introduction  for  a  selection  of  his 
shorter  efforts  issued  in  England  as  Kentucky  Poems  (1902);  but  their 
echoes  of  Tennyson,  Swinburne,  Morris,  and  the  English  Romantics  are 
too  obvious.  The  fauns  that  chase  the  oreads  in  his  pages,  the  knights  and 
the  kings  and  the  paynim,  like  the  bits  of  philosophizing  or  glimpses  of 
trees  and  birds  and  flowers,  are  the  products  of  an  imagination  palely 
loitering  in  the  shade  of  the  older  poets.  Even  when  he  wrote  "The  Feud," 
"Lynchers,"  "Ku  Klux,"  or  "The  Falls  of  the  Ohio,"  one  can  well  believe 
that  Cawein  preferred  "The  World  of  Fancy"  to  his  old  Kentucky  home. 
His  most  distinguished  work  is  probably  to  be  found  in  a  few  nature 
lyrics  like  "The  Family  Burying  Ground."  His  narratives  are  already  for- 
gotten. 

Among  the  other  poets  who  also  undertook  to  rehabilitate  Victorian 
medievalism  at  the  very  end  of  the  strenuous  century  was  Richard  Hovey 
(1864- 1 900),  born  in  Illinois  but  reared  in  the  East.  His  darling  ambition 
was  to  write  a  cycle  of  poetic  dramas  based  on  the  Morte  cP Arthur,  a 
task  which  he  never  finished.  Launcelot  and  Guenevere  (1891),  The  Birth 
of  Galahad  (1898),  and,  better,  Taliesin:  A  Masque  (1900)  are  the  results 
of  the  ambition  but  are  important  only  in  that  they  may  have  provided 
both  William  Vaughn  Moody  and  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  with  sug- 
gestions for  their  poetic  dramas.  Hovey  is  still  known  for  his  poems  cele- 


724  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

brating  his  Alma  Mater,  Dartmouth,  and  for  "A  Stein  Song,'1  with  the 
popular  refrain, 

For  it's  always  fair  weather 
When  good  fellows  get  together. 

There  is  energy  also  in  the  zestful  lyrics  uttering  a  Whitmanic  joy  of 
living  which  he  wrote  in  collaboration  with  the  Canadian  Bliss  Carman 
( 1 86 1- 1929)  and  published  in  three  volumes  of  Songs  from  Vagabondia 
(1894,  1896,  1 901).  But  his  most  valuable  contribution  in  the  long  run 
may  prove  to  be  translations  of  a  number  of  plays  by  Maurice  Maeter- 
linck, issued  in  two  series  in  1894  and  1896.  These  renditions,  harbingers 
of  an  interest  in  the  Belgian  which  slowly  developed  at  the  turn  of  the 
century  and  flowered  in  the  years  immediately  following  the  First  World 
War,  are  among  the  first  overt  signs  of  the  spread  of  the  Symbolist  move- 
ment across  the  Atlantic. 

For  a  short  while  Hovey  was  an  instructor  at  Barnard  College,  but  he 
can  hardly  be  classified  with  such  more  truly  academic  poets  as  Edward 
Rowland  Sill  (1841-87),  George  Edward  Woodberry  (1855-1930),  and 
Henry  Van  Dyke  (1852-193 3).  The  first  of  these  men  graduated  from 
Yale  in  1861  and  attempted  a  number  of  occupations  before  becoming  a 
professor  of  English  in  the  University  of  California.  He  was  a  sensitive 
brooder,  greatly  influenced  by  Emerson,  whom  he  once  called  a  "perfect 
telegraph  line  from  the  infinite,"  and  was  associated  with  a  group  of 
liberals  known  during  the  seventies  and  eighties  as  "Radicals"— Unitarians 
of  the  Theodore  Parker  order  who  had  transferred  allegiance  from  intui- 
tion to  the  science  of  Herbert  Spencer.2  A  search  for  a  belief  in  God  and 
a  passion  for  nature  dominate  most  of  his  poems  that  are  not  merely  vers 
d"  occasion.  The  most  revealing  of  his  longer  efforts,  the  title  piece  in  The 
Hermitage  and  Other  Poems  (1868),  is  a  collection  of  thoughts  somewhat 
like  In  Memoriam  and  gave  promise  of  a  philosophical  poet  who  never 
evolved.  As  he  once  described  himself,  Sill  was  in  later  years  merely  a 
professor  who  sometimes  wrote  verses.  One  of  his  favorite  subjects  was 
the  contrast  between  the  Christmas  season  at  Berkeley  and  the  cold  and 
snow  of  his  youth  in  Connecticut;  and  the  most  striking  of  his  anthology 
pieces  are  "The  Fool's  Prayer,"  a  religious  ballad,  and  the  gentlv  satiric 
"Five  Lives,"  in  which  he  humorously  touched  on  the  shortcomings  of 
Transcendentalists,  Positivists,  and  poets  by  having  them  appear  as  mic- 
roscopic protozoans.  Never  profound,  never  intense,  the  work  of  Sill 
when  read  as  a  whole  impresses  one  as  sincere,  and  reflects  with  an  ab- 
sence of  turbulence  many  of  the  intellectual  problems  besetting  his  era. 
That  is  its  only  importance. 

2  Their  views  are  discussed  in  Sidney  Warren,  American  Free-thought,  1860-1914 
(1943),  Chap.  IV;  and  Clarence  Gohdes,  The  Periodicals  of  American  Tran- 
scendentalism (Durham,  N.  C,  193 1),  Chap.  X. 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE  7*5 

Woodberry  is  like  E.  C.  Stedman  in  that  his  labors  as  critic  have  put 
his  verse  in  the  penumbra,  but  in  1883  he  showed  promise  as  a  poet  with 
the  elegy  entitled  The  North  Shore  Watch,  and  he  continued  in  the  field 
for  forty  years.  In  19 17  he  brought  out  a  series  of  neat  sonnets  called 
Ideal  Passion.  Like  others  of  his  day,  Woodberry  also  tried  his  hand  at  a 
Greek  play.  Of  an  old  Massachusetts  family,  he  was  graduated  from  Har- 
vard, where  he  profited  by  instruction  received  from  Henry  Adams  and 
Charles  Eliot  Norton  but  offended  the  college  authorities  with  a  sturdy 
obduracy  which  he  never  outlived.  For  a  short  time  he  taught  English  at 
the  University  of  Nebraska  and  in  1891  began  thirteen  years  of  service 
at  Columbia,  where  he  was  a  valued  professor  of  comparative  literature 
and  a  shaper  of  some  of  the  traditions  which  still  linger  on  Morningside 
Heights.  Throughout  his  professional  life,  he  was  a  frequent  lecturer  at 
other  institutions  as  well  as  a  prolific  magazinist.  As  he  grew  older  he  felt 
himself  at  odds  with  his  world,  a  not  uncommon  plight  of  his  fellows  in 
verse.  Woodberry's  scholarly  activities  in  connection  with  Shelley,  the 
poet  who  influenced  him  most,  are  less  respected  now  than  a  few  of  his 
many  efforts  concerned  with  the  study  of  American  literature.  His  earlier 
biography  of  Poe,  somewhat  unhappy  in  its  point  of  view,  was  succeeded 
in  1909  by  the  two-volume  expansion  which  long  held  its  own  as  stan- 
dard; and  the  edition  of  Poe's  works  that  he  edited  in  collaboration 
with' Stedman  marked  a  decided  turn  in  the  American  reputation  of  that 
author.  More  estimable,  however,  are  his  biography  of  Hawthorne  (1902) 
and  the  excellent  study  of  Emerson  contributed  in  1907  to  the  English 
Men  of  Letters  series.  His  critical  essays  are  for  the  most  part  lectures 
made  over  into  magazine  articles  but  until  recently  enjoyed  a  high  stand- 
ing; and  a  few,  like  those  on  Cervantes  and  Virgil  in  Great  Writers  ( 1907), 
are  still  among  the  best  of  their  sort.  Very  catholic  in  his  judgments, 
Woodberry  was  a  believer  in  literature  for  life's  sake  and  on  that  ac- 
count is  commonly  bracketed  with  the  humanistic  idealists  who  con- 
tinued the  tradition  of  Emerson  and  Lowell.  While  he  recognized  the  in- 
adequacy of  belles-lettres  as  a  function  of  national  expression,  he  had  the 
good  sense  to  act  on  the  principle  that  the  study  of  one's  own  country  and 
its  literature  is  not  a  species  of  intellectual  slumming  but  a  task  worthy 
of  the  most  cosmopolitan  critical  genius.  Yet  the  conclusions  of  his 
America  in  Literature  (1903),  a  survey  of  the  national  letters  from  the 
point  of  view  of  their  relation  to  the  United  States  at  large,  is  vitiated  by 
a  New  England  strabismus.  It  is  nevertheless  as  succinct  a  discussion  of 
the  influence  of  Europe  on  our  older  writers  as  has  ever  been  written,  and 
its  exposition  of  the  purpose  of  academic  criticism  is  notably,  and  quot- 
ably,  eloquent.  As  for  his  poetry,  Woodberry  himself  suggested  in  the 
preface  to  his  collected  Poems  (1903)  that  his  accomplishment  was  "less 
than  it  should  have  been."  All  that  one  can  say  now  is  that  it  was  written 
by  a  cultivated  gentleman. 


726  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Van  Dyke  was  even  less  of  a  poet  and  more  of  a  versatile  writer  of  prose. 
He  swept  into  prominence  in  the  nineties  with  religious  books,  a  widely- 
appreciated  volume  on  The  Poetry  of  Tennyson  (1889),  genial  essays  on 
outdoor  life,  like  Fisherman *s  Luck  (1899),  and  a  number  of  Christmas 
stories— especially  an  extremely  popular  one  called  The  Story  of  the  Other 
Wise  Man  (1896).  As  the  eloquent  pastor  of  the  Brick  Presbyterian 
Church  in  New  York  City,  he  was  often  invited  to  deliver  chapel  talks 
at  various  colleges  and  in  1899  accepted  a  call  to  Princeton  University, 
where  for  many  a  year  he  was  a  revered  interpreter  of  Tennyson,  Brown- 
ing, and  Wordsworth.  Always  a  preacher,  his  early  Christmas  tales  were 
first  read  from  the  pulpit;  and  his  classroom  lectures,  essays,  and  poems 
were  all  preachments  of  a  sort.  In  his  several  fishing  sketches  he  escaped 
best  from  the  odor  of  sanctity.  He  defined  poetry  as  "idealism  set  to 
music,"  but  his  subject  matter  was  more  varied  than  might  be  supposed 
by  one  who  has  never  looked  into  the  two  volumes  of  verse  that  stand 
beside  the  fifteen  of  prose  in  his  collected  edition.  He  hymned  his  faith, 
bowed  in  veneration  before  nature,  protested  against  child  labor  and  war, 
and  penned  odes  to  music— all  in  a  manner  which  the  world  has  willingly 
let  die.  When  irked  by  the  new  tendencies  of  the  so-called  Poetical  Renais- 
sance which  came  along  after  191 2,  he  disparaged  free  verse  as  contribu- 
tory of  nothing  more  than  a  "state  of  amorphous  deliquescence"  and  in- 
dignantly queried:  "Must  real  poetry  go  off  with  a  bang  and  a  fizz  like 
soda  water?  or  claim  attention  by  its  strong  smell  like  Limburger  cheese?"3 
There  is  no  better  example  of  what  genteel  folk  in  the  "gay"  nineties 
admired  than  that  which  is  to  be  found  in  the  work  of  Henry  Van  Dyke. 

More  of  a  rebel  than  most  of  the  poets  of  the  nineties  was  George  Cabot 
Lodge  (187 3- 1 909),  son  of  the  Massachusetts  senator  who  opposed  Wil- 
son's plan  for  a  League  of  Nations  and  a  protege  of  Henry  Adams.  After 
four  years  at  Harvard  and  graduate  work  in  France  and  Germany,  he 
settled  in  Washington,  D.  C,  but  served  with  a  gun  crew  in  the  Navy 
during  the  Spanish-American  War.  The  moderately  philosophical  cast  to 
be  observed  in  his  poems  was  genuine,  for  he  was  more  than  a  little  in- 
fluenced by  Renan,  Schopenhauer,  and  the  Buddhists,  although  his  early 
master  in  verse  was  Swinburne.  His  second  volume,  Poems,  1899-1902, 
published  in  1902,  has  some  dedicatory  verses  honoring  Whitman,  whose 
frankness  in  regard  to  sex  and  fondness  for  the  sea  he  particularly  admired. 
While  he  wrote  also  "A  Song  for  Revolution"  and  apostrophized  Maxim 
Gorki,  Lodge  showed  his  predilection  for  rebels  more  fully  in  his  two 
poetic  dramas,  Cain  (1904)  and  Herakles  (1908),  both  superior  to  most  of 
the  verse  plays  so  prevalent  at  the  time  and  probably  his  top-ranking  pro- 
ductions. His  earlier  sonnets,  however,  are  above  average.  In  191 1,  two 
volumes  ot  his  Poems  and  Dramas  were  brought  out  with  an  introduction 
by  Theodore  Roosevelt,  along  with  The  Life  of  George  Cabot  Lodge, 
fertius  Van  Dyke,  Henry  Van  Dyke  (1935),  p.  249. 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE  727 

from  the  distinguished  hand  of  another  family  friend,  Henry  Adams.  As 
the  latter  remarked,  the  youthful  poet  was  increasingly  oppressed  by  "the 
suffocating  sense  of  talking  and  singing  in  a  vacuum." 

This  was  possibly  even  truer  of  another  young  poet,  Trumbull  Stickney 
(1874-1904),  whose  death  prompted  a  series  of  twenty-six  sonnets  in 
Lodge's  The  Great  Adventure  (1905)  and  whose  volume  of  poetical  re- 
mains was  edited  in  the  same  year  with  the  aid  of  both  Lodge  and  Moody. 
Stickney  was  born  in  Switzerland  and  as  a  boy  was  often  in  Europe  but 
attended  Harvard  and  returned  there  in  1903  as  an  instructor  in  Greek. 
He  is  said  to  have  been  the  first  American  ever  awarded  the  Doctorat  es 
Lettres  by  the  Sorbonne.  His  lyrics  and  attempts  in  the  drama  are  careful 
work  for  a  beginner  and  exhibit  in  their  solidity  of  diction  the  results  of 
a  thorough  training  in  the  classics  which  is  the  extreme  rarity  among  the 
American  authors  of  the  period.  Like  his  friend  Moody,  he  also  treated 
the  myth  of  Prometheus  in  a  poetic  play,  Prometheus  Fyrphoros  (1900). 


Although  their  names  have  rarely  been  mentioned  in  these  pages  thus 
far,  one  should  not  on  that  account  imagine  that  the  female  poets  of 
America  had  declined  in  number  since  the  days  when  Poe  sacrificed  criti- 
cal discernment  in  favor  of  gallantry  toward  them  and  Rufus  Griswold 
anthologized  their  multitudinous  offerings.  The  fact  is  that  after  the  Civil 
War  they  were  more  numerous  than  ever  before;  and  ever  since  they 
have  increased  in  number  more  than  the  men.  During  the  seventies, 
"H.H.,"  Helen  Hunt  Jackson,  appeared  to  be  the  brightest  new  light  in 
the  female  galaxy,  and  in  the  nineties,  when  the  competition  was  greater, 
probably  Mrs.  Louise  Chandler  Moulton  (183 5- 1908).  The  latter,  no 
doubt,  owed  much  of  her  eminence  to  the  literary  salons  which  she  con- 
ducted in  both  Boston  and  London,  for  as  Boston  literary  correspondent 
of  the  New  York  Tribune  from  1870  to  1876  she  had  learned  the  effects 
of  ingratiating  a  critic  by  means  of  tea  and  a  sweet  bun.  Elizabeth  Drew 
Stoddard  (182 3- 1902)  and  Celia  Thaxter  (1835-94)  are  hardly  even  names 
in  literary  history  any  longer,  and  their  poetry  is  even  less  consequential 
than  their  prose.  The  former  wrote  a  few  novels  truer  to  life  than  the 
average  of  the  sixties;  the  latter  with  her  sketches  Among  the  Isles  of 
Shoals  (1873)  showed  a  grasp  of  local  color  and  an  affection  for  the  sea 
which  also  appears  to  advantage  in  her  several  volumes  of  poetry.  Emma 
Lazarus  (1849-87)  has  possibly  more  claim  upon  the  historian's  attention 
as  the  leading  Jewish  poet  of  nineteenth-century  America  and  as  the 
translator  of  Poems  and  Ballads  of  Heinrich  Heine  (1881),  one  of  the 
more  adequate  renditions  of  Heine  into  English.  She  was  born  in  New 
York  City  of  pure  Sephardic  stock  and  early  attracted  the  attention  of 
Emerson,  who  advised  her  in  regard  to  her  studies  and  was  honored  with 
the  dedication  of  the  title  piece  of  her  second  volume,  Admetus  and  Other 


7z8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Poems  (187 1 ).  When  pogroms  in  Russia  aroused  sympathy  in  America 
and  stimulated  the  immigration  of  the  oppressed  to  these  shores,  she  began 
to  be  recognized  as  one  of  the  leading  advocates  of  her  race  and  patrioti- 
cally called  her  new  collection  Songs  of  a  Semite  (1882).  This  contains 
an  interesting  verse  tragedy,  "The  Dance  to  Death,"  concerned  with  the 
persecution  of  Jews  in  fourteenth-century  Germany,  and  a  few  original 
lyrics,  in  addition  to  translations  from  Heine,  Gabirol,  Ha-levi,  and  other 
sons  of  Judah.  She  spread  propaganda  also  in  prose  and,  in  The  Century 
for  March,  1887,  published  a  group  of  "little  poems  in  prose"  under  the 
title  "By  the  Waters  of  Babylon."  They  are  prosy  treatments  of  Jewish 
history  and  appear  to  owe  nothing  to  Whitman,4  with  whose  work,  how- 
ever, she  was  familiar.  A  few  of  her  translations  are  still  to  be  heard  in 
American  synagogues,  but  her  most  publicized  poem  is  a  rather  bleak 
sonnet,  "The  New  Colossus,"  inscribed  on  a  tablet  at  the  base  of  the 
Statue  of  Liberty. 

The  nineties,  of  course,  saw  the  early  work  of  several  women  whose 
names  were  to  be  better  known  during  the  later  and  happier  period  when 
volumes  of  verse  met  a  more  cordial  reception— for  example,  Lizette 
Woodworth  Reese,  Harriet  Monroe,  and  Louise  Imogen  Guiney  (1861- 
1920).  The  last-mentioned  of  these  women  should  be  entered  into  the 
record  at  this  point,  for  all  of  her  efforts  are  well  within  the  traditions  of 
the  end  of  the  century  and  almost  all  of  her  poems  first  appeared  in  seven 
little  volumes  published  or  privately  printed  between  1884  and  1898.  Miss 
Guiney  was  born  in  Boston,  the  daughter  of  an  Irish  immigrant  who  rose 
to  the  rank  of  brigadier  general  in  the  Civil  War  and  who  died  in  1877, 
leaving  her  to  support  her  mother  by  hack  work  and  such  tasks  as  those 
of  a  postmistress  or  a  cataloguer  in  the  Boston  Public  Library.  She  at- 
tended a  convent  school  and  was  sufficiently  well  educated  to  develop  a 
scholarly  interest  in  English  writers;  her  knowledge  of  Henry  Vaughan 
and  a  number  of  others,  reflected  in  her  essays,  was  more  than  that  of  a 
mere  amateur.  Two  visits  to  England  furnished  material  for  both  prose 
and  verse,  and  in  1901  she  settled  permanently  in  Oxford.  Her  poems  in- 
clude ballads  in  the  Pre-Raphaelite  manner,  some  on  American  topics, 
like  the  New  England  legend  of  Peter  Rugg;  lyrics  of  a  moderately  re- 
flective or  descriptive  type;  and  the  usual  verses  on  other  authors,  includ- 
ing her  favorite  Hazlitt.  She  concerned  herself  less  with  musical  rhythm 
than  with  sharpness  of  observation,  and  as  first  published  her  poetry  seems 
uneven.  But  she  realized  that  narrative  was  not  her  forte  and  that  her 
lines  could  profit  by  filing.  Accordingly,  she  disposed  of  about  half  of 
her  small  body  of  verse  and  refined  the  surviving  lyrics  in  Happy  Ending 
(  1909),  one  oi  the  choicest  collections  of  its  decade  and  still  notable  for 

1  Richard  Watson  Gilder  (1844-1909)  also  published  a  few  non-Whitmanic  poems 
in  prose.  Sec,  for  example,  The  ?oems  of  Richard  Watson  Gilder  (Boston  and  New 
York  [  1908 1),  pp.  286-288  and  375-377. 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE  729 

its  freshness.  This  one  slight  book  remained  her  bid  for  fame,  and  only 
a  few  pieces  were  added  when  it  was  posthumously  reissued  in  1927. 
There  is  almost  nothing  distinctively  American  in  it,  and  the  best  of  its 
contents  is  probably  a  series  of  sonnets  dealing  with  Oxford.  Miss  Guiney 
was  beyond  question  a  "literary"  poet,  but  some  of  her  verses  are  among 
the  most  exquisite  produced  in  the  nineties. 


The  word  "exquisite,"  however,  is  better  applied  to  Emily  Elizabeth 
Dickinson  (1830-86),  the  greatest  of  our  female  poets.  Few  American 
authors  of  high  rank  have  been  subjected  to  the  amount  of  gossip  which 
enshrouds  the  story  of  her  life,  and  little  is  really  known  about  her.  She 
was  a  homely,  Titian-haired  spinster  of  Amherst,  Massachusetts,  whose 
chief  playfellow  was  poetry  and  whose  idiosyncrasies  led  to  her  being 
considered  what  is  commonly  called  a  "character."  She  was  born  in 
Amherst  of  a  prominent  village  family  known  for  its  interest  in  educa- 
tion and  was  brought  up  in  the  strict  Calvinism  of  old-fashioned  Con- 
gregationalism, though,  unlike  her  relatives,  she  never  joined  the  church. 
She  lived  at  home  all  of  her  life  except  for  a  few  short  periods  and  in 
time  became  such  a  recluse  that  for  many  a  year  she  never  set  foot  off 
the  grounds  of  her  father's  house.  Her  grandfather  Dickinson  was  a  gradu- 
ate of  Dartmouth;  and  her  father,  trained  at  Yale,  was  an  able  lawyer, 
active  not  only  in  local  affairs  but  in  the  state  legislature  and  for  a  term 
in  Congress.  From  1835  to  1873  he  served  as  treasurer  of  Amherst  Col- 
lege, an  office  in  which  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Austin.  In  nature 
he  was  solid,  deliberate,  taciturn,  dignified,  but  with  strong  emotions 
which  he  held  in  with  terrific  restraint.  Late  in  life  he  was  "awakened"— 
that  is,  underwent  a  religious  experience  like  that  of  "conversion"— but 
always  had  attended  church.  His  two  daughters,  Emily  and  Lavinia,  were 
not  encouraged  by  him  either  to  read  books  of  a  liberal  cast  or  to  marry, 
and  he  seems  to  have  been  content  that  his  wife  was  a  "meek  little  thing," 
with  her  flowers  as  the  chief  substitute  for  intellectual  interests.  He  was 
the  kind  of  man  who  "frowned  upon  Santa  Claus."  All  of  his  children 
possessed  brilliance  and  wrote  verse;  and  all  looked  out  on  the  unmeasured 
waters  of  human  tears— Austin  as  the  disappointed  big  frog  in  a  little 
pond  whose  attractive  wife,  Susan,  was  incompatible;  Lavinia  as  a  rather 
sorrowful  old  maid  venting  her  affections  on  a  swarm  of  cats;  and  Emily, 
who  became  afraid  and  hid  herself  from  life.  When  one  thinks  of  the 
poet's  family  the  recollections  of  Hawthorne's  characters  come  thronging 
before  the  mind,  and  the  recluse  Wakefield  or  even  the  morbid  clergyman 
of  "The  Minister's  Black  Veil"  seems  less  like  the  product  of  an  imagina- 
tion. Emily  Dickinson  was  quintessentially  a  New  Englander. 

With  an  academic  environment  and  with  such  an  intellectual  tradition, 
it  was  natural  that  her  education  should  have  been  much  better  than 


73Q  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

average.  Moreover,  she  was  precocious,  and  her  youthful  letters  often 
exhibit  a  gift  for  expression  that  bespeaks  developing  talent.  They  also 
display  a  blessed  sense  of  humor.  Her  formal  training,  however,  was 
constantly  interrupted  by  sickness.  Seven  years  altogether  she  spent  at 
the  Amherst  Academy,  and  for  a  few  months  attended  Mount  Holyoke 
Female  Seminary,  where  the  severe  religious  atmosphere  was  still  not 
powerful  enough  to  "awaken"  her  to  join  the  church,  and  the  fearful 
intellectual  discipline  merely  enticed  her  to  mastery.5  When  she  was  back 
in  Amherst  she  was  directed  in  her  mental  pursuits  by  various  young  in- 
structors of  the  college  who  were  frequently  entertained  in  her  home.  A 
law  student  in  her  father's  office,  Ben  Newton,  in  1848  became  especially 
important,  for  he  it  was,  apparently,  who  first  encouraged  her  in  the  writ- 
ing of  verse  and  brought  her  into  direct  contact  with  his  own  Unitarian- 
ism.  When  he  left  the  village  he  sent  her  a  copy  of  Emerson's  poems.6 
Among  others  with  whom  she  discussed  literary  matters  were  two  old 
friends  of  her  father's,  Josiah  Gilbert  Holland  (18 19-81),  popular  poet 
and  novelist  as  well  as  the  first  editor  of  Scribnefs  Monthly,  and  Samuel 
Bowles,  the  editor  of  the  Springfield  Republican.  At  least  three  times  she 
also  saw  and  occasionally  corresponded  with  Helen  Hunt  Jackson,  like- 
wise a  native  of  Amherst,  who  encouraged  her  to  publish  her  verses  and 
apparently  used  the  modest  poet  as  the  heroine  of  two  narratives,  "Esther 
Wynn's  Love-Letters,"  a  short  story  published  in  the  highly-esteemed 
Saxe  Holm's  Stories  (1874),  and  a  novel  called  Mercy  Philbrick's  Choice 
(1876).  It  is  believed  that  one  of  the  five  poems  by  Emily  Dickinson 
known  to  have  been  printed  during  her  lifetime  was  secured  for  the  an- 
thology of  unsigned  verses  entitled  A  Masque  of  Poets  (1878)  through 
A4rs.  Jackson's  efforts.  With  the  publisher  of  that  anthology  she  also  en- 
tered into  a  correspondence  over  her  poems.  But  her  mentor  of  chief 
moment  among  the  literary  lights  of  the  day  was  Thomas  Wentworth 
Higginson,  to  whom  she  wrote  for  criticism  after  reading  in  The  Atlantic 
Monthly  his  "Letter  to  a  Young  Contributor"  and  with  whom  she  con- 
tinued a  friendship  until  her  death.7 

When  she  began  discussing  herself  and  her  verse  with  him  in  1862,  she 
wrote  in  answer  to  his  query  as  to  how  long  she  had  been  composing 
poems:  "I  made  no  verse,  but  one  or  two,  until  this  winter,  sir."  But  her 
statements  about  herself  are  all  teasingly  treacherous,  and  one  can  scarcely 
imagine  that  without  considerable  practice  she  could  have  shaped  the 

'  Sidney  R.  McLean,  "Emily  Dickinson  at  Mount  Holyoke,"  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  7  (March,  1934),  pp.  25-42. 

6  George  Frisbie  Whichcr,  This  Was  a  Poet:  A  Critical  Biography  of  Emily 
Dickinson  (1938),  p.  89. 

7  Her  letters  to  Higginson,  often  fascinating,  serve  as  the  center  of  all  treatments 
of  her  biography.  But  when  her  brother  saw  the  earlier  ones  he  smiled  and  said  that 
his  sister  had  been  posing  (Millicent  Todd  Bingham,  Ancestors'  Brocades:  The 
Literary  Debut  of  Emily  Dickinson,  1945,  p.  167). 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE  731 

following  gem  which  she  sent  along  to  Higginson  a  few  weeks  after  she 
made  the  above  answer: 

As  if  I   asked   a  common  alms, 
And  in  my  wondering  hand 
A  stranger  pressed  a  kingdom, 
And  I,  bewildered,  stand; 
As  if  I  asked  the  Orient 
Had  it  for  me  a  morn, 
And  it  should  lift  its  purple  dikes 
And  shatter  me  with  dawn!  s 

Her  preceptor  urged  that  she  "delay  to  publish,"  advice  which  amused 
her,  for  she  had  no  thought  of  baring  her  soul  in  print  and  only  wished 
to  learn  if  the  good  folk  who  knew  about  such  matters  thought  that  there 
was  any  merit  in  her  efforts.  "While  my  thought  is  undressed,"  she 
said,  "I  can  make  the  distinction;  but  when  I  put  them  in  the  gown,  they 
look  alike  and  numb." 

We  may  believe,  however,  that  in  1862  she  turned  to  verse  with  greater 
avidity,  for  about  that  time  she  began  her  retirement  from  the  world. 
The  withdrawal  from  society  was  at  first  not  nearly  so  extreme  as  in 
her  later  years,  but  certainly  it  marked  a  difference  in  her  attitude;  for 
earlier  she  appears  to  have  been  a  fairly  normal  person,  though  nervous 
and  shy,  who  enjoyed  the  merrymaking  of  the  local  group  of  college 
students  and  the  wide  circle  of  friends  and  relatives  who  lived  in  or 
near  Amherst.  According  to  gossip,  she  is  supposed  to  have  had  an  un- 
fortunate love  affair  which  fastened  her  affections  upon  a  man  already 
married— and  a  minister  of  the  gospel  to  boot— but  her  brother  is  reported 
as  having  believed  that  her  cultivation  of  solitude  was  due  to  her  sensitive- 
ness over  her  very  homely  face.9  According  to  the  most  competent 
student  of  Emily  Dickinson,  there  was  a  married  clergyman  with  whom 
the  poet  first  became  acquainted  in  1854,  and  "she  soon  came  to  regard 
him  as  her  'dearest  earthly  friend,'  and  for  purposes  of  poetry  created  in 
his  image  the  'lover'  whom  she  was  never  to  know  except  in  imagina- 
tion." 10  There  is  as  yet  no  better  explanation  of  the  man  in  the  case. 

Her  life  as  an  adult  was  one  of  increasing  occupation  with  the  holly- 
hocks and  puddings  that  absorbed  the  attention  of  gentlewomen  of  her 
sort,  and  of  rfeading  and  writing.  To  various  people  she  frequently  sent 
letters  and  poems,  occasionally  sprightly  with  humor  but  more  often 
wittily  cryptic  to  the  point  of  being  bizarre,  and  eventually  these  missives 

8  June  7,  1862,  Letters  of  Emily  Dickinson,  ed.  Mabel  L.  Todd  (193 1),  p.  275. 

9  Bingham,  Ancestors'  Brocades,  p.  235. 

10  George  F.  Whicher,  sketch  of  Emily  Dickinson  in  The  Oxford  Companion  to 
American  Literature  (London  and  New  York  [1941]),  p.  194.  Mr.  Whicher  has 
printed  all  the  known  facts  about  the  clergyman,  Charles  Wadsworth,  in  This  Was 
a  Poet.  Mrs.  Todd's  opinion  was  that  "Emily's  withdrawal  was  merely  a  normal 
blossoming  of  her  untouched  spirit"  (Bingham,  Ancestors'  Brocades,  p.  321). 


732  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

served  as  her  only  means  of  intercourse  with  all  but  a  few  friends  and 
relatives.  Her  father's  death  in  1874  left  her  without  a  rudder,  though 
she  described  him  as  having  a  heart  "pure  and  terrible,"  and  the  subse- 
quent hopeless  invalidism  of  her  mother  threw  so  many  burdens  upon 
her  that  she  had  little  time  for  the  reading  which  previously  had  been 
her  chief  solace.  But  Shakespeare  and  the  Bible  were  always  present  in 
her  mind.  Ultimately,  her  shyness  and  seclusion  developed  into  a  morbid- 
ity which  led  Higginson  to  speak  of  her  as  "partially  cracked."  She  wore 
nothing  but  white  dresses  which  the  seamstress  fitted  on  her  sister;  she 
sat  in  a  hall  so  that  she  could  converse  with  select  visitors  in  the  parlor 
without  being-  seen,  and  had  others  address  her  notes  for  her  so  that  her 
handwriting  should  not  be  glimpsed  by  a  stranger.  During  the  last  two 
years  of  her  life  she  was  never  well  but  at  the  time  of  her  death  was  un- 
wrinkled  and  without  a  gray  hair  in  her  head. 

At  her  request,  the  letters  among  her  effects  were  destroyed  by  the 
devoted  Lavinia,  who  discovered  in  the  poet's  room  a  large  collection  of 
manuscript  verses,  some  seemingly  finished,  except  for  occasional  words 
which  were  still  in  doubt  and  for  which  a  number  of  alternative  readings 
were  jotted  on  the  page,  and  some  little  more  than  rough  fragments 
scrawled  on  scraps  of  paper.  Since  there  were,  apparently,  no  instructions 
concerning  the  disposal  of  the  poems,  Lavinia,  always  proud  of  her 
sister's  literary  gifts,  sought  to  have  a  number  of  them  arranged  for 
publication  and  first  of  all  applied  to  her  sister-in-law  Susan.  When  the 
latter  delayed  tackling  the  formidable  task  of  deciphering  and  copying, 
she  appealed  to  the  charming  young  wife  of  an  Amherst  professor  who 
lived  next  door,  Mrs.  A4abel  Loomis  Todd.  That  lady  promptly  set  to 
work  at  copying  the  most  finished  poems  and,  with  the  help  of  Higgin- 
son, edited  a  small  selection  published  in  1 890  as  a  volume  for  the  Christmas 
trade.11  Lavinia  footed  the  bill  for  the  cost  of  the  plates.  With  the  stimulus 
of  the  editors  and  missionary  work  by  Ho  wells,  who  set  the  sheep  jump- 
ing in  strategic  places  and  himself  wrote  an  enthusiastic  essay  on  the  new 
poet  for  Harper's,  the  little  book  was  mildly  sensational  in  its  success  and 
soon  ran  through  several  printings  of  about  five  hundred  copies  each. 
The  editors  had  freely  doctored  the  text,  especially  to  make  the  pieces 
rhyme  better,  and  had  supplied  titles,  for  Emily  Dickinson  named  only 
a  dozen  or  so  of  all  her  poems.  Many  a  critic  commented  harshly  upon 
the  unevenness  of  the  measures  and  the  roughness  of  the  rhymes,  but  a 
fair  number  of  reviewers  dwelt  on  the  marvelous  concentration  and  the 
imagery.  In  the  ensuing  controversy  over  whether  the  verses  were  great 
poetry  or  the  faulty  efforts  of  a  queer  woman,  readers  were  attracted  to 

11  The  history  of  the  activities  of  A4rs.  Todd  in  connection  with  the  editing  of 
the  poems  is  treated  at  great  length  in  Bingham,  Ancestors'  Brocades,  which  also 
discusses  their  reception.  See  also  Anna  M.  Wells,  "Early  Criticism  of  Emily 
Dickinson,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  1    (Nov.  1929),  pp.  243-259. 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE  733 

purchase,  the  magazines  soon  began  asking  Mrs.  Todd  for  more  unpub- 
lished lines,  and  the  ladies'  clubs  were  atwitter  to  hear  more  about  the 
life  of  the  singular  recluse.  In  1891  a  new  collection  was  edited  and  was 
successful  enough  to  encourage  the  publisher  to  bring  out  in  1894  two 
volumes  of  the  poet's  letters,  supervised  by  Mrs.  Todd,  and  in  1896  a 
third  series  of  verses.  Altogether,  poetry  readers  in  America  during  the 
nineties  reacted  very  favorably  to  Emily  Dickinson.  They  bought  more 
copies  of  her  poems  than  those  of  any  other  new  American  poet  of  the 
decade,  and  they  showed  the  same  curiosity  about  the  personality  of  the 
author  that  has  been  exhibited  since.  But  soon  the  excitement  died  down. 
No  critics  in  England  hailed  a  new  transatlantic  genius,  and  the  publica- 
tion of  more  fresh  poems  ceased.  The  fault  underlying  the  latter  fact  was 
sister  Lavinia's,  for  she  had  quarreled  with  Mrs.  Todd,  upon  whom  she 
was  dependent  for  the  editorial  services  requisite  to  bringing  forth  further 
selections  from  the  hundreds  of  manuscripts  still  awaiting  print.  In  the 
course  of  a  few  years  the  name  of  Emily  Dickinson  seemed  to  fade. 

Meanwhile,  the  custody  of  the  manuscripts  had  passed  with  the  death 
of  Lavinia  in  1899  to  the  daughter  of  Austin  Dickinson,  Mrs.  Martha 
Bianchi,  who  wrestled  with  the  unbelievably  difficult  problems  presented 
by  the  texts  of  the  poems  and  dished  out  a  small  selection  in  19 14  with 
the  title  The  Single  Hound.  Its  success  was  slight,  but  it  served  to  revive 
the  poet's  name  at  a  critical  juncture,  and  when  in  1924  the  first  three 
series  plus  the  additional  volume  were  put  together  to  make  a  Complete 
Poems,  the  book  was  swept  along  with  all  the  excitement  over  the  so- 
called  "new"  poetry  to  a  sale  of  about  12,500  copies  in  six  years.12  With 
the  help  of  Alfred  L.  Hampson,  who  thereafter  assisted  Mrs.  Bianchi  in 
editing,  a  batch  of  new  verses  was  brought  out  in  1929,  Further  Poems, 
which  likewise  had  a  remarkable  sale.  Many  wondered  and  many  doubted 
the  seemingly  unlimited  procession  of  new  books,  but  the  end  was  not 
yet  come.  The  centennial  of  Emily  Dickinson's  birth  and  the  appearance 
of  a  variety  of  books  about  her  had  whipped  up  such  enthusiasm  that 
once  again  Mrs.  Bianchi  returned  to  the  manuscripts  and  emerged  with 
Unpublished  Poems  (1936),  and  after  that  lady  died  the  daughter  of  Mrs. 
Todd  issued  in  1945  more  than  650  new  poems  or  fragments  in  Bolts  of 
Melody.  At  the  present  time  it  is  not  clear  how  many  verses  are  still 
unprinted,  but  one  thing  is  quite  certain:  many  of  the  published  poems  of 
Emily  Dickinson  are  sadly  in  need  of  an  editor.13  As  it  is  available  now, 

12  For  the  record  of  the  sales  of  the  earlier  volumes,  see  Emily  Dickinson:  A 
Bibliography,  with  a  foreword  by  George  F.  Whicher  (1930). 

13  For  errors  already  pointed  out  in  existing  texts,  see,  for  example,  Bingham, 
Ancestors'  Brocades,  pp.  336-337;  and  Whicher,  This  Was  a  Poet,  p.  238.  A  glimpse 
of  one  type  of  editorial  problem  confronting  the  student  is  to  be  had  in  Millicent 
Todd  Bingham,  "Poems  of  Emily  Dickinson:  Hitherto  Published  Only  in  Part,"  New 
England  Quart.,  Vol.  20  (March,  1947),  pp.  3-50.  The  Dickinson  manuscripts  came 
into  the  possession  of  Harvard  University  in  1950,  and  Thomas  H.  Johnson  was 
assigned  the  task  of  preparing  reliable  texts. 


734  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  work  of  Emily  Dickinson  cannot  be  discussed  from  the  angle  of 
chronology,  and  there  is  reason  for  suspecting  the  authenticity  not  only 
of  the  punctuation  and  occasional  words  but  even  of  entire  lines. 

The  metrical  range  of  Emily  Dickinson's  poems  is  very  narrow.  Most 
of  her  efforts  are  in  the  various  ballad  metres  or  the  patterns  of  the 
hymnbooks,  and  all  are  short.  At  times,  they  seem  like  the  products  of  an 
undisciplined  child,  but  more  often  they  impress  the  reader  with  a  pur- 
posed defiance  of  regularity  in  both  metre  and  rhyme.  The  irregularity, 
of  course,  is  today  one  of  their  most  endearing  qualities  but  in  the  nineties 
provided  a  stumbling  block  to  wholehearted  acceptance.  Thomas  Bailey 
Aldrich  commented  on  the  "impossible  rhyme"  and  "their  interrupted 
flute-notes"  and  tentatively  demonstrated  how  easily  her  work  could  be 
cast  in  better  form.  The  "shy  New  England  bluebird"  had  written  a 
stanza  as  follows: 

I  taste  a  liquor  never  brewed, 
From  tankards  scooped  in  pearl; 
Not  all  the  vats  upon  the  Rhine 
Yield  such  an  alcohol. 

As  Aldrich  revised  them,  the  lines  read: 

I  taste  a  liquor  never  brewed 
In  vats  upon  the  Rhine; 
No  tankard  ever  held  a  draught 
Of  alcohol  like  mine.14 

In  imagery— Emily  Dickinson's  most  impressive  gift— the  chief  vehicle 
is  metaphors,  few  of  which  are  trite  and  many  of  which  are  so  audacious 
that  they  easily  fit  into  the  fashion  for  conceits  which  T.  S.  Eliot  and 
his  school  have  recently  revived.  A  snake  to  her  is  a  "whip-lash  un- 
braiding  in  the  sun";  "Hope  is  the  thing  with  feathers  that  perches  in 
the  soul";  a  book  is  the  frugal  chariot  "that  bears  a  human  soul";  sin  is 
"a  distinguished  Precipice  others  must  resist."  The  combination  of  simple 
rhythms  with  such  cerebral  imagery  lends  a  quaintness  to  her  lines  which 
is  characteristic,  but  at  times  the  concentration  of  thought  in  the  meta- 
phors is  so  great  as  to  defy  analysis.  It  is  as  if  the  priestess  at  Delphi  were 
babbling  her  Orphic  truths  in  nursery  jingles.  The  search  for  originality 
in' figure  and  for  compactness  which  occasionally  leads  to  obscurity  is  also 
to  be  observed  in  many  of  her  letters.  While  her  spasmodic  leaps  from 
one  perception  to  another  sometimes  mystify,  they  also  please  with  their 
neuralgic  flashes  of  imagery,  and  her  mental  pirouettes  make  of  her  the 
wittiest  of  American  poets  of  considerable  stature. 

So  far  as  their  topics  are  concerned,  her  early  editors  divided  her 
poems  into  four  groupings:  dealing  with  life,  love,  nature,  and  time  and 

11  "Un  Poete  Manque,"  Ponkapog  Papers  (Boston  and  New  York,  1903),  p.  107. 


NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE  735 

eternity.  The  bees,  the  birds,  and  the  seasons  of  the  year  enticed  her  into 
adorning  her  thoughts  with  perhaps  their  most  cherished  garb,  but  pri- 
marily she  was  a  poet  of  the  metaphysical  type  who  sought  by  reflection 
and  revery  to  mint  her  contemplations  on  life  and  love  and  death  and 
God  into  the  coin  of  axiom.  The  overweening  desire  for  apothegm  was 
often  the  cause  of  her  undoing,  since  it  frequently  led  her  to  abandon 
crispness  of  observation  for  abstraction.  The  intensity  of  her  lonely 
search  for  bulletins  of  immortality  has,  not  unnaturally,  occasioned  com- 
parison with  the  Calvinists  of  early  New  England,  but  in  her  unorthodox 
religious  utterances  at  least  she  seems  closer  to  the  Transcendentalists— 
Unitarians  whose  beliefs  were  the  result  of  "untaught  sallies  of  the  spirit." 
Like  Thoreau,  she  reads  not  the  times  but  the  eternities  and  abounds  in 
paradoxes;  like  Emerson,  she  exults  in  apothegm  and  her  soul  when  ex- 
cited becomes  virtuous;  like  Theodore  Parker,  she  seems  to  defy  ortho- 
doxy in  the  very  excess  of  piety.  With  all  the  romantic  poets,  she  shared 
the  qualities  of  the  hermit-soul.  But  in  her  comments  on  love  she  is  at 
times  more  human  than  any  of  her  New  England  predecessors,  and  there 
is  a  poignancy  in  her  womanly  longings  that  probably  would  have  shocked 
both  Emerson  and  Thoreau.  She  herself,  no  doubt,  would  have  been  hor- 
rified at  the  exposure  of  her  private  reflections  in  the  profanity  of  print. 
Her  differences  from  other  writers  of  her  section  are  often  as  great  as 
her  similarity  in  wooing  the  spiritual;  no  other  poet  of  her  region  pos- 
sessed the  cheerful  chirrup  of  the  artful  cricket  in  her  brain  though  many 
surpassed  her  in  knowledge  of  humanity. 

Any  attempt  to  account  for  Emily  Dickinson's  verse  on  the  ground  of 
her  reading  15  is  foredoomed  to  failure,  for  we  do  not  have  sufficient 
evidence  to  prove  anything  about  it  except  that  she  was  fairly  widely 
but  unevenly  read  in  the  favorite  authors  of  the  day.  In  her  letters  she 
was  scrupulous  in  putting  quotation  marks  around  borrowed  phrases,  and 
she  consciously  avoided  echoes  of  other  writers  in  her  verse.  In  false 
rhymes  and  certain  metaphors,  as  well  as  in  her  propensity  toward  axiom, 
she  seems  most  like  Emerson,  whose  verse  she  certainly  read  and  whom 
she  may  have  met  in  person  when  he  lectured  in  Amherst.  But  in  more 
of  her  metaphors  she  is  like  Shakespeare,  whom  she  frequently  quoted, 
as  did  all  cultivated  people  of  her  sort.  Although  her  play  with  abstrac- 
tions is  at  times  abortive,  she  has  turned  out  a  quantity  of  sententious 
observations  of  sufficient  brilliance  to  give  her  high  rank  among  the 
gnomic  poets  of  her  country.  One  finds  eminently  quotable  remarks 
scattered  throughout  her  pages,  whether  in  her  poems  or  in  her  letters. 
"So  much  of  Heaven  has  gone  from  Earth  that  there  must  be  a  Heaven"; 
"After  great  pain  a  formal  feeling  comes— the  nerves  sit  ceremonious  like 
tombs";  "Denial  is  the  only  fact  received  by  the  denied";  "Beauty  is  not 

15  In  Chapter  XII  of  This  Was  a  Poet,  Mr.  Whicher  has  presented  the  best  account 
of  the  subject. 


736  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

caused— it  is";  "Revolution  is  the  pod  systems  rattle  from"— such  truisms 
pepper  her  lines  and  apparently  abounded  in  her  oral  speech.  They  of 
course  lead  to  an  unsatisfied  curiosity  about  the  nature  of  her  mind  and 
of  her  experiences,  for  it  seems  almost  incredible  that  a  recluse  like  her 
could  have  plumbed  to  such  profundity  merely  by  imagining  what  the 
world  and  the  soul— what  death  and  marriage  and  success— were  like. 
But  of  such  is  the  nature  of  genius. 

Since  so  much  of  her  work  has  appeared  for  the  first  time  in  the  present 
century,  Emily  Dickinson  seems  almost  a  contemporary;  and,  as  has  al- 
ready been  pointed  out,  her  unevenness,  her  paradoxes  and  conceits  are 
well  suited  to  present-day  conventions.  But  a  great  number  of  her  verses 
are  inchoative  rather  than  finished— a  fact  clear  enough  to  herself  but 
often  lost  sight  of  in  the  undiscriminating  enthusiasm  which  they  have 
sometimes  elicited.  Yet,  whether  complete  or  incomplete,  whether  ac- 
curately or  inaccurately  reproduced  by  editors,  a  substantial  element  in 
her  poems  provides  rare  ignition  for  the  emotions  or  challenges  the  in- 
tellect by  cryptic  wit.  Her  irony  often  supplies  a  kind  of  caper  sauce  for 
the  digestion  of  her  moralizing,  and  when  her  paradoxes  do  fulminate 
they  leave  one  breathless  with  their  startling  originality.  But  often  the 
thyme  and  marjoram  of  form  and  content  are  not  transformed  into  the 
miracle  of  honey. 


Chapter  37 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS 
PLEASANT  READING 


When  the  American  reader  of  the  eighties  and  nineties  thought  of  fiction 
sterner  than  that  of  Howells  and  his  disciples,  he  was  usually  disposed  to 
remark,  "The  writers  on  the  continent  of  Europe,  especially  the  French, 
go  in  for  that  sort  of  thing,  but  it's  nasty  and  not  suited  to  the  American 
scene."  In  a  sense,  he  was  right,  for  the  prudishness  of  American  society, 
like  the  squeamishness  of  the  British,  was  of  a  more  basaltic  variety  than 
that  of  Russians  or  Latins,  and  the  easy-going  optimism  of  the  nation  was 
not  to  be  disconcerted  by  pessimism,  economic  or  otherwise.  To  be  sure, 
slums  and  red-light  districts  multiplied  as  the  cities  grew,  but  the  average 
American  was  remote  from  them;  he  still  resided  on  a  farm  or  in  a  small 
town.  He  knew  more  about  sex  at  a  tender  age— from  the  breeding  of 
animals— than  his  present-day  grandson,  married  early,  and  was  perfectly 
complacent  in  his  belief  that  all  decent  women  should  blush  at  the 
slightest  innuendo.  On  the  sly,  of  course,  he  occasionally  dipped  into  the 
obscenity  which  industrious  Anthony  Comstock  and  the  Society  for  the 
Suppression  of  Vice  annually  gathered  for  destruction,  but  he  expected 
nothing  very  shocking  from  such  of  his  countrymen  as  strove  to  gain  a 
reputation  by  writing  novels  or  short  stories.  As  is  the  case  today,  the 
better  educated  he  was,  the  less  likely  he  was  to  violate  the  command- 
ments against  incontinence.  Henry  Adams,  fresh  from  the  gay  life  of 
London,  wrote  to  his  intimate  young  friend  Gaskell  in  1872:  "I  assure 
you,  the  young  women  in  this  land  are  lively  to  go,  and  the  curious  thing 
about  it  is  that,  so  far  as  I  know,  these  Boston  girls  are  steady  as  you 
like.  In  this  Arcadian  society  sexual  passions  seem  to  be  abolished. . . . 
How  they  ever  reconcile  themselves  to  the  brutalities  of  marriage,  I 
don't  know."  But,  it  may  be  thought,  such  was  the  case  only  in  Boston, 
where  "respectability  stalked  unchecked,"  as  jokesters  said.  In  1878, 
however,  Adams  confided  to  the  same  correspondent  his  reaction  to 

737 


738  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Washington:  "We  do  not  even  talk  scandal.  There  is  no  scandal  to  talk 
about. . . .  We  are  good-natured.  I  assure  you,  it  is  like  a  dream  of  the 
golden  age."  And,  four  years  later,  he  reaffirmed  his  impression  of  the 
capital:  "To  do  it  justice,  it  is  a  moral  little  world  enough,  and  has  no 
Lonsdales  or  wickedness,  except  occasional  jobbery  and  political  intrigue 
of  a  rather  common  type."  1  With  the  prudery  and  relative  innocence  of 
American  society  the  old  Puritans,  of  course,  had  nothing  to  do;  under- 
lving  was  that  inconsistent,  inexplicable,  yet  potent  force  known  as 
middle-class  morality. 

Nevertheless,  many  of  the  sterner  works  of  Continental  fiction  were 
widely  disseminated  in  the  United  States  in  the  form  of  cheap  transla- 
tions, often  expurgated  but  at  times  sufficiently  unaltered  to  occasion 
suits  against  publishers  as  remote  as  Tennessee.  Zola,  champion  of  that 
variety  of  stronger  realism  dubbed  "naturalism,"  was  especially  in  demand, 
and  Turgenev  was  even  recommended  by  Higginson  to  Emily  Dickin- 
son. Tolstoi  had  a  vogue  in  America  of  surprising  scope.2  The  subject 
matter  treated  by  these  men  was  often  attacked  as  immoral;  but  as  their 
importance  became  established  abroad,  a  number  of  skilled  commentators, 
like  James,  Howells,  and  Thomas  Sergeant  Perry  (1845-1928),  pointed 
out  their  worth  in  articles  published  in  the  major  magazines.  As  has  al- 
ready been  stated,  the  demand  for  the  idealization  of  character  never 
ceased  to  be  heard,  and  the  realistic  theories  of  Howells  were  constantly 
under  attack.  Within  limits,  however,  there  was  an  increase  in  the  number 
of  novels  and  tales  which  seem  relatively  objective.  But  at  the  same  time 
that  a  realism  of  the  Howrells  or  Daudet  order  was  beginning  to  take 
effect  in  certain  quarters,  there  developed  in  Europe  a  counterattack 
upon  naturalism;  and  its  repercussions  in  the  United  States  actively  stimu- 
lated the  hue  and  cry  of  the  opposition  during  the  nineties.  The  neoro- 
mantic  onslaught  is  well  illustrated  by  an  article  significantly  entitled 
"The  Turning  of  the  Tide,"  published  in  The  Independent  for  February 
20,  1896,  and  written  by  Maurice  Thompson  (1 844-1 901),  an  Indiana  poet 
and  novelist  whose  first  book,  Hoosier  Mosaics  (1875),  had  been  modeled 
upon  The  Hoosier  School-Master.  He  rejoiced  at  the  routing  of  "rabid 
romance-haters,  whose  ambition  has  been  to  build  up  in  our  country  a 
market  for  the  debilitating  and  debauching  fiction  of  Russia,  France, 
and  Spain"  and  assailed  the  motto  "Be  mercilessly  true  to  life"  as  pro- 
ductive of  "all  that  has  ever  been  a  hindrance  to  virtue."  Hamilton  Wright 
Mabie  (1845- 19 16),  then  at  the  height  of  his  influence  as  a  polite  critic, 
in  discussing  realism  and  naturalism  in  Current  Literature  for  February, 

1  Letters  of  Hairy  Adams,  1858-1891,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford  (Boston  and  New 
York,  1930),  pp.  222,  309,  336. 

2  Albert  J.  Salvan,  Zola  aux  Etats-Unis  (Providence,  1943);  Royal  A.  Gettmann, 
Turgenev  in  England  and  America  (Urbana,  111.,  1 94 1 ) ;  J.  Allen  Smith,  "Tolstoy's 
Fiction  in  England  and  America,  1862-1938,"  unpublished  dissertation,  University  of 
Illinois,  1939- 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        739 

1897,  calmly  referred  to  them  in  the  past  tense;  and  William  Roscoe 
Thayer  (1859- 192 3)  announced  the  "doom  of  realism"  in  the  December, 
1 894,  issue  of  The  Forum.  Such  articles  were  very  numerous.  Substantiat- 
ing their  views  were  certain  other  literary  phenomena,  such  as  the  hearty 
enthusiasm  for  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  and  Rudyard  Kipling  aroused 
among  both  critics  and  readers.  Almost  everywhere,  the  former's  "Gossip 
on  Romance"  was  quoted  with  the  same  approval  bestowed  upon  his 
stories;  and  the  fever  for  Kipling  was  even  more  epidemic  than  that  which 
had  earlier  raged  for  Bret  Harte,  his  master. 

Another  striking  proof  of  the  insignificance  of  realism  was  the  parade 
of  lucrative  historical  romances  of  native  origin  which  dominated  the 
fiction  market  of  the  nineties.  We  have  already  observed  how  a  response 
to  the  clamor  for  such  narratives  led  local  colorists  like  Mary  Wilkins 
Freeman  or  Sarah  Orne  Jewett  to  forsake  their  wonted  paths  and  how 
Mark  Twain,  eyeing  the  dollar  barometer  in  1895,  judged  the  weather  as 
favorable  for  a  long-contemplated  book  on  Joan  of  Arc.  There  was  good 
reason,  for  the  magazines  were  demanding  stories  with  historical  back- 
grounds, and  in  book  form  they  sold  so  well  that  publishers  contended 
that  never  again  should  they  witness  similar  sales  of  new  American  novels. 
Even  The  Atlantic  Monthly  serialized  To  Have  and  to  Hold  (1899),  by 
Mary  Johnston  (1870-1936),  a  shallow  romance  of  Colonial  Virginia 
written  under  the  aegis  of  Scott  and  Cooper.  As  a  book,  it  sold  over 
200,000  copies  in  a  year.  Since  the  earliest  days  of  Sir  Walter,  fictitious 
treatments  of  history  had  exerted  the  sure  appeal  of  combined  instruction 
and  entertainment,  and  sporadically  had  won  great  favor  when  they  dealt 
with  American  themes;  but  the  outbreak  during  the  nineties  was  different 
from  anything  previous.  It  seemed  as  if  a  dozen  Fenimore  Coopers  were 
let  loose  all  at  once.  The  century  ended  in  America  with  a  meteoric  dis- 
play of  romance,  scintillating  with  best  sellers  like  When  Knighthood 
Was  in  Flower  (1898),  by  Charles  Major  (1 856-191 3);  Janice  Meredith 
(1899),  by  Paul  Leicester  Ford  (1865- 1902);  Richard  Carvel  (1899),  by 
Winston  Churchill  (1871-1947);  Red  Rock  (1899),  by  Thomas  Nelson 
Page;  and  Alice  of  Old  Vincennes  (1900),  by  Maurice  Thompson.3  The 
least  successful  of  these  books  sold  at  least  90,000  copies  before  1901,  a 
figure  which  gains  impressiveness  when  one  remembers  that  Louisa 
Alcott's  Little  Wome?i  was  considered  spectacular  with  a  sale  of  175,000 
copies  between  1868  and  1885. 


Confronted  with  such  a  situation  as  has  just  been  outlined,  the  younger 
authors  beginning  in  the  eighties  or  nineties  who  took  Howells  at  his 

3  The  most  prodigious  attempt  to  Actionize  the  history  of  America,  from  the 
discovery  by  Columbus  to  the  Civil  War,  was  the  13-Vol.  series  of  Columbian 
Historical  Novels,  written  by  John  Roy  Musick  of  Kirksville,  Missouri   (1895). 


740  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

critical  word  or  attempted  to  go  further  by  emulating  the  practice  of 
Continental  naturalists  were  booked  for  trouble.  Their  work  shows 
compromise  sooner  or  later  and,  in  certain  cases,  a  fairly  complete  aban- 
donment of  the  kind  of  effort  which  started  them  on  their  way.  Garland's 
failure  to  practice  the  preachments  of  Crumbling  Idols  and  to  follow  up 
the  grimness  of  his  early  portrayal  of  the  Middle  Border  has  already  re- 
ceived comment,  and  the  somewhat  similar  fate  of  a  number  of  his  con- 
temporaries will  be  apparent  in  the  present  chapter.  Prior  to  Theodore 
Dreiser,  our  literary  annals  reveal  no  realist  now  considered  of  an  ad- 
vanced order  who  began  as  such  and  consistently  held  out  to  the  end, 
and  there  is  no  evidence  of  any  wide  dissemination  of  naturalistic  doctrine 
before  the  First  World  War.  Accordingly,  there  is  no  real  development 
of  sterner  realism  to  record  for  nineteenth-century  America.  What  ex- 
isted was  sporadic,  occasionally  the  result  of  an  author's  temperament, 
as  in  the  case  of  Stephen  Crane  or  the  youthful  Ellen  Glasgow,  or,  more 
frequently,  the  result  of  imitation  of  Europeans,  as  in  the  case  of  Kate 
Chopin  or  Frank  Norris.  It  should  be  remembered,  however,  that  what 
strikes  us  as  fairly  bland  realism  may  have  seemed  like  aqua  regia  to  a 
generation  devoted  to  cycling  and  playing  croquet.  In  connection  with 
the  difficulties  imposed  by  critical  terminology,  the  reader  may  feel  less 
solitary  in  his  struggle  with  ambiguities  if  he  is  reminded  that  even  Eugene 
O'Neill  once  expressed  the  pious  wish  that  "some  genius  were  gigantic 
enough  to  define  clearly  the  separateness"  of  "realism"  and  "naturalism."  4 
The  comparatively  frank  treatment  of  sex  which  we  now  recognize  as 
an  element  in  realism  of  an  advanced  sort  was  impossible  in  a  pre-Freudian 
America,  and  Whitman's  unpopularity  well  proved  the  fact.  But  from 
time  to  time  native  fiction  was  published  which  was  considered  "semi- 
erotic."  For  the  most  part,  this  consisted  of  old-fashioned  sentimental 
novels  in  which  the  great  emotion  was  given  release  in  a  character  or  a 
scene  more  calorific  than  the  conventional  passion  of  romancers  prone 
to  have  their  heroines  kissed  only  after  an  engagement  ring  was  secure  on 
a  finger.  At  times,  the  heat  strikes  one  as  unconsciously  genuine.  An  il- 
lustration is  supplied  by  The  Quick  or  the  Dead?  (1888),  by  Amelie 
Rives  (1863-1945),  a  novel  which  started  its  author  on  the  road  to  fame 
as  a  popular  sentimentalist.  Its  heroine  is  a  Virginia  woman  of  twenty-six 
years,  torn  between  devotion  to  the  memory  of  her  deceased  husband 
and  attraction  for  his  ardent  cousin  who  strongly  resembles  him  in  ap- 
pearance. The  first  part  of  the  story  might  qualify  as  a  portrait  of  a 
healthy,  passionate  woman  suddenly  touched  with  nymphomania— though 

1  Barrett  Clark,  Eugene  O'Neill:  The  Man  and  His  Plays  (1929),  p.  130.  Help  may 
be  obtained  from  works  like  Vernon  L.  Parrington,  The  Beginnings  of  Critical  Realism 
in  America,  1860-1920  ([1930I),  pp.  323-327;  Emile  Zola,  Le  Roman  Experimental; 
and  E.  Preston  Dargan  and  others,  Studies  in  Balzac's  Realism  (Chicago  [1932]), 
Chap.  I. 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        741 

the  style  is  stilted— but  in  the  end  the  heroine  decides  to  remain  faithful 
to  the  dead— a  resolution  brought  about  as  a  result  of  being  locked  up 
for  a  while  in  a  church  near  Charlottesville.  There  can  be  no  doubt,  how- 
ever, about  the  genuineness  of  the  exhibition  of  physical  excitation.  Less 
frequently  than  the  sentimentalists  passed  the  line  of  proper  tepidity,  an 
occasional  author  with  a  sociological  purpose  impressed  the  reviewers  as 
more  audacious  than  he  should  have  been,  for  example,  Thomas  E. 
Willson  ( 1 846-1901),  who  propagandized  against  the  lack  of  uniformity 
in  the  state  laws  regulating  marriage  and  divorce.  His  fumbling  novel  of 
purpose,  It  Is  the  Law  (1887),  wTas  thought  to  be  a  "curious  network  of 
adultery  and  lust." 

Also  aligned  with  the  "semi-erotic"  novelists  by  the  firing  squad  of 
critics  was  Edgar  Saltus  ( 1855-192 1),  a  handsome  New  Yorker  who 
studied  at  Yale  and  Columbia  as  well  as  at  the  Sorbonne  and  devoted  the 
first  of  his  many  volumes  to  a  biography  of  Balzac  (1884).  A  clever 
sciolist,  seemingly  well  versed  in  all  that  pertained  to  rare  viands,  exotic 
drinks,  art,  music,  and  literature,  he  was  an  advocate  of  nearly  all  the 
supposed  malign  tendencies  denounced  by  Max  Nordau  in  Degenera- 
tion. He  is  almost  the  sole  illustrator  in  American  letters  of  the  fashion 
known  in  Europe  as  fin-de-siecle.  In  his  sophistication  he  was  a  fore- 
runner of  the  cosmopolitan  bohemianism  rampant  in  the  nineteen-twenties, 
and  he  became  the  admired  friend  of  such  glittering  cognoscenti  as  James 
Huneker  and  Carl  Van  Vechten.  Before  he  published  his  first  novel,  Mr. 
IncouVs  Misadventure  (1887),  he  had  written  an  impertinently  clever 
survey  of  pessimism,  The  Philosophy  of  Disenchantment  (1885),  and  a 
similar  "tableau  of  anti-theism  from  Kapila  to  Leconte  de  Lisle,"  The 
Anatomy  of  Negation  (1886).  His  learning  was  later  brought  to  bear 
upon  assorted  topics  like  the  Roman  emperors,  the  Romanoffs,  the  history 
of  eroticism  (Historia  Amoris,  1906),  and  comparative  religion.  Long 
after  the  time  when  he  had  greeted,  in  a  poem  called  "Walden,"  his 
dream-friends  Baudelaire,  Gautier,  Heine,  Leopardi,  Sappho— and  Emer- 
son, he  forsook  his  ultrafashionable  hedonism  to  embrace  theosophy. 

In  1890,  he  agreed  that  fiction  needed  "less  of  the  magic  lantern"  and 
more  of  life,  but  insisted  that  morality,  though  a  "matter  of  local  option, 
controlled  by  the  climate,"  was  still  so  exacting  that  a  novelist  would 
do  well  to  avoid  kicking  down  screens  and  pulling  curtains  aside.  He 
advocated  covert  indirection:  "A  hint  is  easy  of  digestion,  and  if  the 
novelist  know  his  art  he  can  send  out  that  hint  masked  to  the  teeth  yet 
pregnant  with  suggestion."  The  question  of  morality  in  literature  was, 
thus,  merely  a  "question  of  literary  ability."  Romanticism  he  called  a 
"corpse  still  warm";  and  naturalism,  symbolized  by  a  "silk  stocking  filled 
with  mud,"  he  thought,  had  "ceased  to  appeal."  The  new  mode  of  fiction 
in  the  offing  would  strive  for  "the  exact  representation  of  the  fugitive 
impression,"  and  the  new  school  could  profit  by  studying  Dostoevsky, 


742  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Flaubert,  and  George  Eliot.5  Saltus's  own  practice  was  not  equal  to  his 
critical  vision,  for  his  novels  teem  with  melodrama.  They  also  swarm 
with  allusions,  epigrams,  short-breathed  sentences,  and  man-of-the-world 
observations,  but  seem  more  glib  than  profound.  The  Pace  That  Kills 
(1889)  well  illustrates  its  author's  productions  during  the  eighties.  It  is 
a  swift  nouvelle  having  to  do  with  a  smart  young  society  man  who  marries 
a  New  York  heiress  to  retrieve  his  fortunes  but  ends  as  a  bilked  villain. 
The  motivation  is  poor,  the  psychology  as  elementary  as  that  of  Eggles- 
ton,  but  the  sophistication  advanced.  In  it  Saltus  followed  his  own  advice 
about  hinting  at  unconventional  situations.  Only  incidentally  does  the 
reader  learn  that  the  hero  has  in  his  youth  seduced  a  young  girl  who 
has  died  in  an  attempt  at  abortion;  and  a  fairly  convincing  picture  of  a 
woman  in  labor  is  conveyed  by  the  impressionistic  method.  DeForest, 
however,  had  long  before  surpassed  him  in  suggesting  the  pangs  of  child- 
birth. 

As  Saltus  continued  to  write  novels,  and  a  few  short  stories,  his  mastery 
of  technique  matured  to  an  extent,  but  he  was  never  able  to  overcome 
the  difficulty  of  indicating  the  passage  of  time  or  of  discounting  the 
element  of  chance.  In  this  latter  respect,  however,  he  sinned  no  more 
than  many  of  his  superiors.  He  paid  his  respects  to  historical  romance  by 
manufacturing  a  background  for  Mary  Magdalen  (1891)  and  bettered  the 
average  of  his  later  output  in  The  Perfume  of  Eros  ( 1905),  a  title  redolent 
of  his  Corinthian  taste.  The  latter  is  a  lively  melodrama  of  the  Fifth 
Avenue  set,  ending  with  an  exciting  murder  trial  and  an  unsuspected 
murderer.  The  victim,  incidentally,  keeps  a  mistress  in  a  neat  little  bijou 
of  an  apartment,  and  she  eventually  shines  as  a  glorious-voiced  operatic 
star,  with  a  success  reminiscent  of  Sister  Carrie's  and  anticipant  of  that 
of  Susan  Lenox.  Saltus  probably  had  a  slight  influence  upon  the  fiction 
of  the  nineteen-twenties  but  hardly  advanced  the  cause  of  realism.  He 
did,  however,  undoubtedly  gild  the  passion-flower  of  sophistication  in 
American  fiction. 


In  contrast  with  him,  Harold  Frederic  (Harold  Henry  Fredericks, 
1856-98)  was  a  product  of  poverty.  His  father  was  a  freight  conductor 
who  died  when  Harold  was  an  infant;  and  as  a  child  in  Utica,  New  York, 
he  rose  at  four  a.m.  to  help  his  step-father  deliver  milk.  After  quitting 
school  at  the  age  of  twelve,  he  followed  various  occupations,  including 
that  of  a  farm  hand,  but  in  time  became  a  proofreader  and  eventually  an 
editor  of  the  Utica  Observer.  For  two  years  he  edited  also  the  Albany 
Evening  journal  and  on  losing  this  position  in  1884  immediately  took 
over  as   foreign   correspondent   and   London   agent  of  the   New   York 

5  Love  and  Lore  (1 1890J),  "The  Future  of  Fiction,"  pp.  36-48;  "Morality  in  Fiction," 
pp.  63-80. 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        743 

Times.  The  remainder  of  his  life  was  lived  in  England.  Observing  that 
some  of  his  fellow-journalists  in  London  were  adding  to  their  incomes 
by  writing  fiction,  he  revived  his  childhood  ambitions  and  resolved  to 
do  the  same  thing.  All  of  his  books  were  rush  work,  prepared  during 
hours  when  he  was  recuperating  from  newspaper  tasks.  Soon  the  need 
for  funds  drove  him  with  a  lash,  for  he  was  a  spendthrift  and,  moreover, 
was  forced  to  provide  not  only  for  his  own  family  but  also  for  that  of  a 
mistress  whom  he  kept  in  a  separate  bower.  Upon  his  death  the  scandal 
was  aired  to  the  four  winds  when  British  officials  brought  suit  against 
his  mistress  and  the  Christian  Science  healer  whom  she  had  called  in  to 
attend  Frederic  in  his  illness.  The  charges  against  the  woman  were  finally 
dropped,  and  she  took  shelter  with  her  children  in  the  home  of  Stephen 
Crane. 

Frederic  had  published  in  the  Observer  a  few  unpromising  short  stories 
and  before  he  left  school  had  tried  to  write  a  longer  tale  about  Revolu- 
tionary days  in  the  Mohawk  Valley.6  His  first  novel,  Sethis  Brother's 
Wife  (1887),  was  the  outgrowth  of  a  later  interest  in  the  local  color  of 
his  native  region.  In  addition  to  accurate  reproduction  of  New  York 
rustics,  local  politics,  and  small-town  journalism,  it  details  a  crude  murder 
perpetrated  by  a  farm  hand.  The  motivation  of  the  plot,  like  the  dialect 
of  the  characters,  is  handled  well;  and  a  fair  portrayal  is  given  of  Isabel 
Fairchild,  wife  of  the  murdered  man,  who  hates  both  her  husband  and 
the  dreary  life  of  a  farm  and  philanders  with  her  spouse's  youngest 
brother,  Seth.  Altogether,  it  was  as  promising  a  first  novel  in  the  realistic 
manner  as  had  appeared  in  the  United  States— unusual  in  its  command  of 
language,  of  local  color,  and  of  consistency  in  psychology.  Scribnefs 
Monthly  serialized  it,  but  as  a  book  its  drabness  caused  it  to  fail.  It  was 
possibly  the  example  of  Howells  plus  respect  for  fact  acquired  as  a 
newspaper  journalist  which  caused  Frederic  to  create  such  an  impression 
of  reality.  But  he  himself  immediately  satirized  the  infiltration  of  Russian 
dourness  into  American  fiction.7 

His  second  novel,  hi  the  Valley  (1890),  was  the  fruit  of  an  early  de- 
sire to  celebrate  the  history  of  his  native  area.  It  is  a  chronicle  of  the 
Mohawk  Valley  from  1757  to  the  end  of  the  Revolutionary  War  and, 
like  his  first  book,  subordinates  love  affairs  to  a  negligible  element.  The 
chief  event  described  is  the  Battle  of  Oriskany,  delineated  veraciously 
as  a  bewildering  confusion.  The  social  history,  of  which  the  tale  is  full, 
is  far  more  accurate  and  detailed  than  Cooper's  treatment  of  the  manners 
of  upstate  New  York  in  the  "Littlepage  Manuscripts,"  but  Frederic's 
contention  that  the  defeat  of  St.  Leger  by  the  forces  of  Herkimer  was 
the  critical  battle  of  the  war  is  untenable.  That  fact,  nevertheless,  does 

6  Preface  to  In  the  Sixties  ( 1 897 ) . 

7  "The  Editor  and  the  Schoolma'am,"  a  short  story  published  in  the  New  York 
Times  for  Sept.  9,  1888,  p.  14. 


744  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

not  prevent  the  story  from  being  one  of  the  most  reliable  historical  novels 
of  its  dav.  The  next  book  by  Frederic  was  a  kind  of  sequel  to  his  first— 
The  Laivt07i  Girl  (1890).  Instead  of  farm  life,  politics,  and  journalism, 
this  involves  the  practice  of  law  in  a  small  industrial  town  of  New  York 
and  the  manipulation  of  a  trust  by  a  couple  of  unscrupulous  men  bent  on 
getting  a  factory  into  their  hands.  There  is  accurate  reporting  of  a  turkey- 
shoot  and  a  lockout  of  factory  workers,  but  neither  the  motivation  of  the 
plot  nor  the  portrayal  of  the  leading  characters  is  sterling.  The  love 
element,  again  of  minor  significance,  turns  about  Jessica  Lawton,  at- 
tractive daughter  of  a  shoddy  family  who  has  been  seduced  by  a  young 
blue-blood  but  renounces  vengeance  and  dies  in  such  a  melodramatic 
fashion  that  the  author  himself  later  spoke  of  it  as  "false."  The  forswear- 
ing of  revenge,  however,  caught  the  approving  eye  of  critics,  and  there- 
after it  became  a  favorite  motif  with  Frederic.  In  his  next  book  he  jumped 
completely  ofT  the  base  of  reality  and  wrote  a  thrill-packed,  absurd  nar- 
rative in  which  a  veteran  of  the  Civil  War  journeys  to  Ireland  and  passes 
himself  off  as  a  native  noble.  The  Return  of  the  O'Mahoney  (1892)  is 
merely  a  romance  intended  to  profit  by  the  widespread  discussion  of  the 
Fenian  revolts.  It  exerted,  unfortunately,  an  influence  upon  Stephen 
Crane's  last  novel,  The  O' Ruddy. 

With  the  novelette  The  Copperhead  (1893)  Frederic  slipped  back 
again  into  the  realistic  fold  and  produced  a  character  study  of  Abner 
Beech,  an  industrious,  upright  New  York  farmer  who  is  subjected  during 
the  Civil  War  to  all  sorts  of  humiliations  as  a  result  of  his  Peace-Demo- 
cratic opinions.  At  first  he  is  crusty  and  vitriolic  but  as  the  story  goes 
on  becomes  a  veritable  Job,  speaking  well  of  his  enemies  and  putting  the 
best  construction  on  their  acts,  even  when  they  set  fire  to  his  house.  As 
a  character  study,  it  falls  just  short  of  fine  art,  but  the  local  color  is  again 
pungent.  Furthermore,  by  making  the  recollections  of  a  small  boy  supply 
the  point  of  view,  the  structure  achieves  smoothness.  This  tale  aroused 
considerable  attention  and  immediately  led  Frederic  to  continue  to  write 
short  stories  likewise  dealing  with  civilian  life  in  rural  New  York  during 
the  Civil  War.  One  of  them,  "The  War  Widow,"  is  grimly  pathetic,  but 
others  are  damaged  by  an  excess  of  sentiment.  These  tales  were  followed 
by  a  few  others  having  to  do  with  the  Middle  Ages. 

In  1896  Frederic  stunned  the  public  with  a  novel  of  contemporary  life, 
The  Damnation  of  Theron  Ware,  published  in  England  under  the  less 
lurid  title  Illumination.  In  this,  the  best  known  of  his  narratives,  the 
journalist  undertook  to  turn  into  cash  the  excitement  over  fiction  treating 
clergymen  which  had  been  provoked  in  England  and  the  United  States 
by  Mrs.  Humphry  Ward's  Robert  Elsmere  and  by  A4rs.  Margaret  Deland's 
(1857-1945)  similar  best  seller,  John  Ward,  Preacher  (1888).  It  was 
scandalously  daring  not  only  for  its  day  but  even  for  that  of  Elmer 
Gantry,  for   when  Henry  Mencken  and  his  cohorts  were  making  The 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        745 

American  Mercury  profitable  by  tiltino-  at  "boobs"  and  Methodists,  the 
story  came  to  be  regarded  as  a  minor  classic.  Theron  Ware,  a  young 
Methodist  preacher  of  Octavius,  New  York,  has  his  intellect  stimulated 
by  association  with  the  local  Catholic  priest,  with  a  red-haired  woman 
organist  who  plays  Chopin  and  smokes  cigarettes,  and  with  a  retired 
professor  who  experiments  with  snakes  and  keeps  a  Chinese  servant.  In 
the  process  of  contrasting  their  discussions  of  comparative  religion  with 
the  shallow  revivals  and  orgiastic  camp-meetings  of  his  sect,  he  discovers 
that  his  beliefs  are  unworthy  of  his  new  enlightenment.  Falling  in  love 
with  the  organist,  he  promptly  makes  a  fool  of  himself  in  the  eyes  of 
his  Catholic  friends,  abandons  his  wife,  and  goes  on  a  drunken  spree.  At 
last,  he  recovers  under  the  auspices  of  a  female  revivalist  and  gives  up 
his  pulpit  to  enter  politics  in  Seattle.  The  most  vivid  touches  in  the  book 
are  the  solid  descriptions  of  a  Methodist  revival  and  of  a  contrasting 
Catholic  beer  picnic.  The  development  of  character  is  anything  but  trim, 
the  conversation  is  at  times  hurriedly  forced,  and  the  plot  is  as  melo- 
dramatic as  anything  written  by  Saltus.  In  four  years  the  novel  sold  over 
fifty  thousand  copies  in  this  country,  and  in  England  was  also  very  popu- 
lar, despite  objections  to  its  numerous  unintelligible  Americanisms.  Within 
a  few  weeks  after  The  'Damnation  of  Theron  Ware  appeared,  Frederic 
published  under  a  pen  name  a  clever  but  fantastic  novelette  entitled 
March  Hares  (1896).  All  of  its  characters,  including  a  peer  of  Scotland, 
turn  out  to  be  different  people  from  what  they  seem  to  be  at  the  outset 
of  the  book,  and,  as  a  reviewer  observed,  they  are  bound  to  earthly  reality 
only  by  their  need  for  food  and  drink.  It  is  an  adroit  sequence  of  false 
leads.  Like  it,  the  last  two  of  his  novels  have  a  European  setting  and 
are  implausible.  They  apparently  were  contrived  to  delight  shopgirls 
with  scenes  of  lovely  old  estates,  though  they  deal  also  with  current 
economic  issues.  The  British  upper  crust  is  displayed  as  essentially  a 
pretty  venal  set,  for  Frederic  was  not  one  of  those  who  bowed  in  rev- 
erence before  European  aristocracy. 

He  appears  to  have  been  an  amoral,  exuberant  extravert,  without  firm 
convictions  on  the  nature  of  humanity  or  of  art.  His  chief  purpose  as 
a  writer  was  merely  money-making,  and,  seemingly,  he  contributed  as 
readily  to  The  Youth's  Companion  as  to  The  Yellow  Book.  A  farfetched 
romance  about  medieval  Ireland  caught  his  fancy  as  easily  as  an  honest 
portrayal  of  a  New  York  farmer.  As  a  realist,  he  did  his  most  enduring 
work  in  connection  with  the  life  of  the  Mohawk  Valley,  which  he  knew 
best.  He  never  surpassed  the  sturdiness  of  his  first  novel,  though  in  The 
Copperhead  and  The  Damnation  of  Theron  Ware  he  contributed  more 
memorable  characters.  The  absence  of  the  subjective  note  is  apparent  in 
his  work,  but,  especially  in  The  Return  of  the  O'Mahoney  and  his  final 
novels,  he  was  at  times  as  prone  to  idealize  as  Sir  Walter  himself.  Very 
influential  upon  his  stories  set  in  Civil  War  times  was  the  example  of 


746  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Erckmann-Chatrian,8  but  there  is  no  evidence  of  a  debt  to  the  sterner 
realists  of  Europe.  Frederic  is  a  good  example  of  the  seasoned  veteran  of 
the  newspaper  who  knows  how  to  reproduce  what  he  has  observed  and 
who  possesses  no  mean  knowledge  of  human  psychology  but  lacks  both 
time  and  inclination  to  become  an  artist.  We  have  had,  more  recently, 
many  of  his  sort  but  few  with  better  talent. 


More  fluctuant  in  his  oscillations  than  Frederic  was  Henry  Blake  Fuller 
(1857-1929),  author  of  the  first  realistic  novel  with  a  setting  in  Chicago. 
He  lived  long  enough  to  be  the  sole  link  between  the  group  of  writers 
that  Hamlin  Garland  tried  in  vain  to  muster  into  an  assertive  Chicago 
platoon  and  the  clan  of  book-makers  temporarily  resident  in  that  city 
after  the  First  World  War.  By  instinct  Fuller  was  a  lone  wolf,  distressed 
by  the  noisiness  of  local  patriotism  and  enamored  of  the  softer  accents 
of  a  polite  cosmopolitanism.  His  grandfather,  after  settling  in  the  prairie 
capital  in  1849,  amassed  wealth  as  a  railroad  promoter  and  utilities  mag- 
nate; and  his  father,  a  substantial  banker,  was  active  in  civic  affairs.  Fuller, 
in  1876,  received  a  diploma  from  a  public  high  school  and  was  promptly 
put  to  work  in  a  bank,  in  order  to  carry  on  the  family  tradition  in  busi- 
ness. But  his  acumen  and  propensities  were  otherwise  disposed,  and  his 
enthusiasm  was  reserved  for  private  studies  in  languages,  music,  drawing, 
and  architecture.  After  devouring  dictionaries  and  guidebooks,  he  set  out 
in  1879  for  a  year's  travel  in  Europe,  the  first  of  several  such  journeys. 
Half  of  the  time  he  spent  in  Italy,  land  of  his  heart's  desire,  and,  in  the 
usual  fashion,  reported  his  observations  in  letters  published  in  the  Tribune. 
In  1883  he  again  escaped  from  business  for  a  sojourn  in  the  land  of  ro- 
mance and,  after  the  death  of  his  father  two  years  later,  would  probably 
have  gone  abroad  for  good  if  he  had  not  been  forced  to  manage  the 
dwindling  income  of  his  family  and  to  look  after  his  mother.  Except  for 
transatlantic  tours  and  vacations  in  Wisconsin,  he  stayed  on  in  his  native 
city  even  after  his  mother's  death  in  1907  and  was  always  strait- jacketed 
by  the  demands  of  business.  Effeminate  in  manner,  he  was  known  as  a 
member  of  an  "old"  family  who  supported  cultural  enterprises  like  the 
Art  Institute  and  the  magazine  Poetry  but  preferred  the  unsocial  existence 
of  a  perverse  but  fastidious  bachelor.  Sporadically,  he  contributed  to 
local  newspapers  and  for  a  short  while  was  on  the  editorial  staff  of  the 
Record-Herald.  His  work  appeared  also  in  a  variety  of  national  maga- 
zines, and  in  the  nineteen-twenties  he  was  a  frequent  reviewer  for  The 
Nation  and  The  New  Republic,  as  well  as  for  the  leading  New  York  news- 
papers. None  of  his  books  was  widely  read,  albeit  several  won  the  respect 
of  critics  capable  of  being  impressed  by  an  urbane,  lucid  style  and  mildly 
humorous  irony. 

8  Preface  to  In  the  Sixties. 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        747 

Among  his  early  publications  were  short  stories,  poems,  and  burlesques, 
one  of  the  last-mentioned  being  "A  Transcontinental  Episode,  or,  Meta- 
morphoses at  Muggins'  Misery;  a  Co-operative  Novel  by  Bret  James  and 
Henry  Harte,"  printed  in  Life  in  January,  1884.  He  also  wrote  both  the 
librettos  and  scores  for  a  couple  of  unproduced  light  operas  modelled 
upon  Gilbert  and  Sullivan.  His  first  book  was  likewise  of  a  humorous  cast, 
The  Chevalier  of  Pensieri-Vani  (1890),  scrawled  in  1886,  without  thought 
of  publication,  on  envelopes  retrieved  from  a  wastebasket.  Its  composition 
was  a  means  of  escape  from  the  boredom  of  business  and  its  material  the 
result  of  playful  contemplation  of  guidebooks  and  of  his  own  travel 
diaries.  Its  mood  reminds  one  of  the  light  and  intelligent  jocularity  of 
Logan  Pearsall  Smith  (1 865-1946),  the  affable  author  of  Trivia.  In  no 
sense  a  novel,  The  Chevalier  is  a  melange  of  travel,  conversation,  and  nar- 
rative—half fanciful,  half  real.  The  scene  shifts  from  one  place  to  another 
in  Italy,  and  the  closest  approximation  to  a  main  plot  is  concerned  with  the 
purchase  by  the  Margravine  of  Schwalbach-Shreckenstein  of  an  iron  pot 
reputed  to  be  an  antique.  When  published  under  a  pseudonym,  the  book 
was  scarcely  noticed  outside  Boston,9  but  Charles  Eliot  Norton  and  Lowell 
soon  proclaimed  its  charm,  and  revised  editions  in  1892  and  1899  extended 
its  reputation  further.  Neglected  today,  it  is  nevertheless  a  most  delightful 
little  volume,  a  rare  example  of  urbane  humor  at  its  best.  In  a  subsequent 
book  Fuller  essayed  a  similar  work  with  Switzerland  instead  of  Italy  as 
background,  The  Chatelaine  of  La  Trinite  (1892),  somewhat  neater  in 
pattern.  And  two  of  his  later  volumes,  The  Last  Refuge  (1900)  and  Gar- 
dens of  This  World  (1929),  are  in  much  the  same  vein.  All  are  graceful 
in  style  and  not  without  their  merits  but  lack  the  bloom  of  pristine  en- 
chantment which  envelopes  The  Chevalier."1" 

Fuller's  first  obeisance  to  realism  came  in  his  third  book,  The  Cliff- 
Dwellers  (1893),  at  a  time  when  the  Columbian  Exposition  was  arousing 
speculation  about  the  possibility  of  Chicago's  emergence  as  a  cultural 
center  to  rival  New  York  and  Boston.11  A  newspaper  had  announced  a 
prize  for  a  realistic  story  with  a  local  flavor,  and  the  author  used  ideas 
from  his  unsuccessful  entry  as  the  basis  of  a  longer  narrative.  The  Cliff- 
Dwellers  is  slightly  confused  and  poorly  constructed  but  reflects  a  broad 

9  Fuller's  own  account  of  his  early  works  appears  in  Constance  M.  Griffin,  Henry 
Blake  Fuller  (1939),  pp.  29  et  seq. 

10  Fuller's  recognition  of  the  change  in  the  American  attitude  toward  Europe  in 
the  twentieth  century  is  importantly  suggested  in  Gardens  of  This  World  and  in 
On  the  Stairs  (Boston  and  New  York,  1918),  pp.  100-101. 

11  One  of  the  most  effective  efforts  to  give  literary  fame  to  Chicago  was  made  by 
two  young  Harvard  men  of  the  class  of  1894,  Herbert  S.  Stone  and  Hannibal  I. 
Kimball,  Jr.,  who  started  The  Chap-Book  and,  among  other  works,  published  books 
by  Garland,  Ibsen,  Verlaine,  and  James,  as  well  as  Frederic's  The  Damnation  of 
Theron  Ware  and  Kate  Chopin's  The  Awakening.  See  Sidney  Kramer,  A  History 
of  Stone  &  Kimball  and  Herbert  S.  Stone  &  Co.:  With  a  Bibliography  of  Their 
Publications,  1893-1905  (Chicago,  1940). 


748  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

knowledge  of  business  and  society  in  the  Illinois  metropolis.  A  large 
number  of  characters  are  introduced,  but  attention  is  focussed  on  the 
family  of  Erastus  M.  Brainard,  unprincipled  president  of  a  bank,  and  on 
a  young  New  Englander  named  Ogden,  who  is  supposed  to  marry  one  of 
Brainard's  daughters  but  instead  makes  a  match  with  a  girl  of  impecunious 
but  less  obnoxious  social  background.  In  the  end,  the  Brainards  lose  their 
fortune,  and  Ogden  becomes  a  thief  in  order  to  support  his  extravagant 
wife.  While  the  novel  occasionally  verges  upon  melodrama,  it  represents 
primarily  realism  of  the  Howellsian  commonplace.  Its  exhibits  of  Chicago 
businessmen  and  their  socially  aspiring  wives  are  authentic,  as  one  may 
prove  by  comparing  the  account  of  society  in  that  city  written  by  Edgar 
Lee  Masters  in  his  autobiography,  Across  Spoon  River  (1936).  The  title 
of  Fuller's  novel  refers  to  the  occupants  of  a  large  office  building  which 
serves  as  a  center  for  his  analysis  of  local  society.  His  next  book,  With  the 
Procession  (1895),  is  a  more  mature  but  somewhat  similar  treatment  of 
the  city,  with  the  addition  of  details  of  municipal  corruption.  As  in  its 
predecessor,  objectivity  is  maintained,  but  the  action  is  too  greatly 
accelerated  at  the  end.  It  succeeds  better,  however,  in  suggesting  the 
atmosphere  of  teeming  expansion  so  characteristic  of  American  cities  of 
the  time.  Theodore  Dreiser  once  remarked  that  With  the  Procession  was 
the  first  piece  of  native  realism  that  he  encountered,  and  Howells  chose 
one  of  its  female  characters  for  discussion  in  Heroines  of  Fiction.  Hamlin 
Garland  declared  that  it  preserved  social  changes  in  Chicago  during  the 
nineties  more  perfectly  than  "any  other  story  then  or  since."  The  state- 
ment still  holds  true. 

Yet,  in  spite  of  the  good  start  he  had  made,  Fuller  did  not  return  to 
Chicago  as  the  setting  of  another  novel  until  191 8.  Meanwhile,  in  addition 
to  a  whimsical  narrative  called  The  Last  Refuge,  he  published  a  few 
volumes  of  short  stories  or  novelettes,  in  one  of  which,  Under  the  Sky- 
lights (1901),  he  made  merry  with  the  cultural  aspirations  of  his  city, 
especially  the  activities  of  Hamlin  Garland.  He  also  brought  out,  in  The 
Puppet-Booth  (1896),  a  dozen  dramatic  sketches  which  ironically  satirize 
Maeterlinck's  symbolism  and,  occasionally,  as  in  "Northern  Lights,"  the 
singularities  of  Ibsen.  Both  Europeans,  it  may  be  added,  had  something  of 
a  vogue  among  the  illuminati  of  Chicago  at  the  time.  The  imperialism  of 
America  connected  with  the  war  against  Spain  stirred  Fuller  to  exhibit 
his  anger  in  a  violent  rash  of  inferior  verse,  privately  printed  in  The  New 
Flag  (1899).  No  author  who  tried  to  versify  his  indignation  over  the 
policies  of  McKinlcy  and  Mark  Hanna  appears  to  have  surpassed  him  in 
throwing  vitriol.12  Later,  when  the  controversy  over  free  verse  was  at  its 
height  and  Spoon  River  Anthology  was  all  the  rage,  he  was  lured  again 
into  verse  satire,  but  in  the  resultant  Lines  Long  and  Short  (19 17)  his 

12  Compare,  for  example,  Liberty  Poems:  Inspired  by  the  Crisis  of  1898-1900 
(Boston,  1900). 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        749 

"biographical  sketches  in  various  rhythms"  are  filled  with  the  mollified 
mockery  more  suited  to  his  temperament. 

On  the  Stairs  (19 18)  brought  Fuller  forward  again  as  a  realistic  novelist. 
After  a  little  awkwardness  at  the  outset,  this  short  novel  settles  into  the 
reminiscences  by  a  third  party  of  the  lives  of  two  sons  of  Chicago,  Ray- 
mond Prince,  a  scion  of  a  cultivated  family  who  goes  down  the  stairs  of 
success,  and  Johnny  McComas,  reared  as  a  child  in  the  stable  back  of  the 
Princes'  home,  who  forges  ahead  as  a  hustler  of  the  Loop.  The  intertwin- 
ing of  the  activities  and  families  of  the  two  men  is  at  times  artificial,  and 
Fuller  was  restive  with  the  methods  of  longer  fiction,  but  the  book  con- 
tains a  modicum  of  undiluted  social  history  dealing  with  Chicago  between 
the  seventies  and  the  time  of  the  First  World  War.  The  author  put  much 
of  his  own  biography  and  disillusionment  into  the  character  Raymond 
Prince.  His  next  novel,  likewise  very  short,  was  Bertram  Cope's  Year 
(19 19),  concerned  with  an  instructor  in  English  studying  for  a  master's 
degree  at  a  university  sometimes  thought  to  resemble  Northwestern.  It  is 
purposely  vague,  for  it  employs  the  theme  of  homosexuality,  a  subject 
which  Fuller  had  already  adumbrated  in  one  of  his  playlets,  "At  St. 
Judas's,"  and  one  which  caused  him  no  little  personal  trouble.  Thereafter 
he  published  no  more  books,  although  before  his  death  he  finished  the 
manuscripts  of  two  others.  One  of  these,  Gardens  of  This  World,  has 
already  been  mentioned  as  an  inferior  final  effort  in  the  manner  of  his  first 
volume;  and  the  other,  Not  on  the  Screen  (1930),  is  a  quietly  ironic  at- 
tempt to  show  how  an  incident  from  a  motion-picture  plot  would  actually 
work  out  in  real  life.  To  the  end,  Fuller  rode  the  two  horses  of  romance 
and  realism. 

Unquestionably,  his  chief  work  is  the  charmingly  fanciful  medley  The 
Chevalier  of  Pensieri-Vani.  Realism,  he  once  protested,  was  only  "one  way 
to  skin  a  cat."  An  accomplished  stylist  whose  delightful  irony  was  never 
permitted  in  his  fiction  to  succumb  to  the  exaggerations  that  might  easily 
have  produced  more  sensational  results,  he  apparently  felt  that  the  portrai- 
ture of  city  life  on  the  prairie  was  not  worth  the  effort  that  Howells  urged 
him  to  put  forth.  When  at  length  he  ventured  into  a  more  daring  subject, 
the  public  showed  no  sign  of  interest.  But  as  yet,  his  account  of  Chicago 
life  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century  has  not  been  surpassed  in  veracity 
by  any  other  novelist. 


The  critic  who  notes  in  Harold  Frederic  a  certain  lack  of  integrity  and 
in  Henry  B.  Fuller  the  absence  of  depth  and  body  in  the  delineation  of 
character  will  probably  also  observe  in  Benjamin  Franklin  Norris  (1870- 
1902)  a  boyish  want  of  sagacity.  Though  a  born  storyteller,  with  a  gush- 
ing fount  of  invention,  he  was  withal  naive— a  fact  quite  evident  in  the 
sophomoric  essays  on  fiction  and  other  literary  topics  collected  after  his 


750  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

death  in  The  Responsibilities  of  the  Novelist  (1903).  They  baffle  anyone 
who  searches  in  them  for  congruity  and  bottom;  there  seems  to  be  no 
spool  from  which  the  threads  of  his  ideas  are  pulled.  At  times,  fundamental 
opinions  on  the  philosophy  of  fiction  are  borrowed  from  Howells;  at 
others,  from  the  neoromantics  who  attacked  Zola.  Romance  and  realism, 
Norris  avers,  are  "constant  qualities  of  every  age,  day  and  hour,"  but  in 
making  "A  Plea  for  Romantic  Fiction,"  he  goes  on  to  say: 

Let  Realism  do  the  entertaining  with  its  meticulous  presentation  of  teacups, 
rag  carpets,  wall-paper  and  haircloth  sofas,  stopping  with  these,  going  no 
deeper  than  it  sees,  choosing  the  ordinary,  the  untroubled,  the  commonplace. 
But  to  Romance  belongs  the  wide  world  for  range,  and  the  unplumbed 
depths  of  the  human  heart,  and  the  mystery  of  sex,  and  the  problems  of  life, 
and  the  black,  unsearched  penetralia  of  the  soul  of  man.13 

Every  novel,  he  maintains,  must  do  one  of  three  things:  tell  something, 
as  does  The  Three  Musketeers;  show  something,  as  does  Romola;  or,  best 
of  all,  prove  something— "draw  conclusions  from  a  whole  congeries  of 
forces,  social  tendencies,  race  impulses"— as  does  Les  Miserables!  One  is 
further  perplexed  by  his  opinion  that  the  third  type  includes  both  the 
others.14  The  best  explanation  for  such  inconsistencies  is  probably  to  be 
found  in  the  observation  made  by  Norris's  brother  Charles,  likewise  a 
novelist:  "at  no  time  in  his  life  did  Frank  take  either  himself  or  his  work 
too  seriously. . . .  Writing  for  him  was  self-expression."  15 

As  a  child,  removed  in  his  teens  from  Chicago  to  San  Francisco,  Norris 
was  subjected  to  two  conflicting  forces:  the  desire  of  his  wealthy,  Sunday- 
school-teacher  father  to  make  a  businessman  out  of  him  and  the  encour- 
agement in  the  arts  supplied  by  his  mother,  a  former  actress  with  a  passion 
for  a  brilliant  place  in  society.  At  first  it  was  painting  that  appeared  to 
absorb  his  ambition.  Accordingly,  in  1887,  the  whole  family  went  abroad 
to  start  him  off  properly.  In  Paris  he  worked  in  an  atelier  presided  over  by 
Bouguereau  and  read  all  he  could  about  medieval  armor,  for  he  planned  as 
a  studio  piece  a  huge  canvas  to  depict  the  Battle  of  Crecy.  But  he  had 
barely  begun  before  he  abandoned  the  brush  and  returned  to  San  Fran- 
cisco to  enter  the  University  of  California  as  a  special  student.  During  his 
sophomore  year  his  doting  mother  paid  for  the  publication  of  his  first 
book,  Yvernelle:  A  Legend  of  Feudal  France  (1892),  an  amateurish  poem 
inspired  by  Froissart.  He  contributed  to  the  college  magazine  and  also  to 
more  professional  journals  such  as  The  Overland  Monthly  and  The  Wave, 
read  Zola  as  well  as  Kipling  and  Richard  Harding  Davis,  and  evolved  into 
a  jolly  brother  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta.  No  one  but  his  father  seems  to  have 
been  worried  over  the  failure  of  his  four  years  to  net  a  diploma.  But  his 

13  The  Responsibilities  of  the  Novelist  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1928),  pp.  167-168. 

14  "The  Novel  with  a  Purpose,"  Responsibilities,  pp.  21-22. 
1 B  Foreword  to  Frank  Norris  of  "The  Wave"  (193 1). 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        751 

mother,  now  divorced  from  her  husband,  resolved  to  make  up  for  the 
deficiency  by  giving  him  a  year  at  Harvard.  In  Cambridge,  he  enrolled  in 
three  courses  in  French  and  in  a  sophomore  class  in  composition  taught 
by  Lewis  Edwards  Gates  (i860- 1924),  later  the  author  of  a  couple  of 
volumes  of  able  criticism  and  the  first  of  Norris's  instructors  to  offer  him 
competent  advice.  From  time  to  time,  the  student  turned  in  as  themes 
portions  of  a  novel,  concerned  with  a  dentist  and  strongly  dyed  with  the 
garish  hue  of  Zola,  which,  apparently,  he  had  begun  writing  in  San 
Francisco.  But  before  he  had  put  the  final  touches  on  it,  he  was  busy  at 
another  naturalistic  tale,  about  a  young  collegian  who  becomes  the  victim 
of  vice.  In  what  condition  these  manuscripts  were  before  Norris  returned 
to  California  is  not  known,  but  presumably  their  author  felt  no  strong 
pressure  to  round  them  out,  for  within  a  few  weeks  he  was  off  to  Africa, 
to  report  on  the  Boer  disturbances  there.  This  jaunt  was  cut  short  by  his 
contracting  fever  and  being  ordered  to  leave  the  country,  and  in  April, 
1896,  an  indulgent  friend  provided  him  with  a  place  as  editorial  assistant 
on  The  Wave.  In  this  weekly  he  published  hack  work,  sections  of  his 
manuscript  novels,  and  a  series  of  short  narratives  culminating  in  an  adven- 
turous yarn  serialized  as  Moran  of  the  Lady  Letty.  In  the  pages  of  The 
Wave  he  placed  "the  germ  of  almost  every  idea  which  he  was  to  use  later 
in  his  fiction."  16 

After  working  hours,  the  young  journalist  was  a  playboy  who  occa- 
sionally indulged  his  mother  by  appearing  in  exclusive  society  but  more 
often  was  soaking  up  the  sights  of  San  Francisco,  which  city,  he  con- 
tended, offered  ample  background  for  any  novelist.  When,  however,  an 
offer  of  a  position  in  New  York  with  the  McClure  interests  was  extended, 
he  quickly  accepted  it,  but  was  once  again  distracted,  by  the  outbreak  of 
the  Spanish-American  War,  which  caused  him  to  depart  for  Cuba  as  a 
special  correspondent.  Late  in  1899,  he  became  a  manuscript  reader  for 
the  Doubleday  firm,  which  had  combined  forces  with  McClure,  and  in 
1900  he  was  married.  As  a  publisher's  reader  he  has  a  claim  upon  history, 
for  it  was  his  enthusiastic  recommendation  of  Sister  Carrie  that  started 
Dreiser's  first  book  toward  the  printing  press.  Meanwhile  his  own  six 
novels  came  out  in  rapid  succession:  Moran  (1898),  McTeague  (1899), 
Blix  (1899),  A  Man's  Woman  (1900),  The  Octopus  (1901),  and,  post- 
humously, The  Fit  (1903).  The  publication  of  The  Octopus  brought  him 
wide  public  recognition,  but  he  sturdily  resisted  fawners  and  flatterers  and 
resolved  to  leave  New  York  and  all  literary  associates  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible. His  plan  was  to  embark  on  a  trip  around  the  world,  to  gather 
material  for  a  sequel  to  The  Pit,  and  he  dreamed  of  a  later  series  of  novels 
to  be  written  about  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg.  But  all  plans  and  dreams 
were  terminated  by  his  failure  to  recover  from  an  operation  for  appendici- 
tis. He  died  at  the  age  of  thirty-two. 

16  Franklin  Walker,  Frank  Norris  (1932),  p.  143. 


752  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Except  for  an  adolescent  romance  supposed  to  have  been  written  in 
France,  the  first  of  Norris's  novels  in  the  order  of  composition  was  Mc- 
Teague: A  Story  of  San  Francisco,  which  he  once  intended  to  name  The 
People  of  Polk  Street.  The  hero  is  a  blond  giant  of  moronic  mentalitv  who 
has  picked  up  the  rudiments  of  dental  practice  and  settled  himself  in 
parlors  on  a  cheap  street  where  his  pleasures  consist  of  drinking  steam 
beer,  playing  six  lugubrious  airs  on  a  concertina,  and  looking  after  a 
canarv  kept  in  a  gilt  cage.  Hovering  barelv  beneath  the  surface  of  his 
mind  are  lust,  sadism,  and  murderous  anger.  Various  episodes  of  the  novel 
involve  other  characters— all  Dickensian— who  live  with  McTeague  in  the 
same  building  on  Polk  Street.  At  first,  all  goes  well  with  the  brute  after 
he  marries  Trina  Sieppe,  a  neat  and  thriftv  girl  whose  fortune  is  climaxed 
by  winning  five  thousand  dollars  in  a  lotterv.  But  the  authorities  soon 
discover  that  McTeague  has  no  license  to  practice,  and  the  subsequent 
loss  of  occupation  precipitates  a  disintegration  of  his  character.  He  takes 
to  the  bottle  and  develops  a  hatred  of  all  his  wife's  virtues.  As  McTeague 
goes  to  pieces,  so  does  Trina.  Her  passion  for  saving  becomes  a  mania,  and 
at  length  she  polishes  the  coins  in  her  trunk,  puts  them  in  her  mouth,  and 
even  snuggles  them  next  to  her  naked  bodv.  Her  emotions  are  finallv 
reduced  to  nothing  but  "her  passion  for  monev  and  her  perverted  love  for 
her  husband  when  he  was  brutal."  After  a  time,  in  a  fit  of  rage,  lust,  and 
drunkenness,  McTeague  murders  her  and  steals  her  remaining  money. 
He  skips  out  to  the  mines— with  his  canary  bird— soon  discovers  gold  in  the 
Panamint  Range,  but,  driven  on  by  a  recurring  premonition  of  pursuit, 
flees  to  Death  Valley,  whither  he  is  tracked  by  Trina's  cousin.  There  the 
two  men  fight  and  in  the  encounter  are  manacled  together  with  a  pair  of 
handcuffs  brought  by  the  pursuer,  and  both  are  left  to  die  of  thirst  in  the 
desert  while  the  canarv  chatters  in  its  golden  cage.  Except  for  the  final 
dime-novel  scene  and  a  few  loose  ends  in  motivation,  the  part  of  the  storv 
that  involves  Trina  and  McTeague  is  well  executed  and  sustained  with 
fair  unitv  and  objectivitv.  The  gradualness  of  the  demoralization  of  the 
two  characters  is  skilfully  suggested  by  the  interposition  of  elements  from 
the  subplots.  Norris's  use  of  symbolism,  however,  is  exaggerated,  and  some 
of  the  activities  of  the  minor  people  of  Polk  Street  seem  incompatible  with 
the  clinical  sombreness  of  the  main  story,  but  in  a  small  way  they  provide 
humorous  relief— and  romance.  The  novel  is  much  superior  to  The 
Octopus  in  construction  and  is  as  broad  a  naturalistic  canvas  as  anything 
in  American  literature  prior  to  Dreiser.  The  critics  either  ignored  it  or 
gave  it  vigorous  condemnation. 

Norris's  next  novel  in  order  of  composition  was  Vandover  and  the 
Brute  ( [914),  begun  at  Harvard  in  1895  but  never  published  by  its  author. 
It  traces  with  greater  detail  than  McTeague,  and  with  less  divertissement, 
the  gradual  reduction  of  a  youth  of  good  San  Francisco  family  to  a  degen- 
erate beast,  the  victim  of  alcohol  and  lycanthropy.  Vandover  loses  his 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        753 

social  position  as  a  result  of  the  discovery  that  he  is  responsible  for  the 
suicide  of  a  girl  whom  he  has  seduced,  his  alcoholism  in  time  brings  on  fits 
of  mental  numbness,  and  in  the  end  he  is  forced  to  appeal  for  aid  to  the 
very  man  who  has  swindled  him  out  of  his  father's  property.  The  last 
scene  exhibits  him  cleaning  out  foul  sinks  and  cellars  under  the  direction 
of  the  wife  of  a  factory  worker.  Sexual  affairs  enter  little  into  the  story, 
though  one  chapter,  we  are  told,  had  to  be  omitted  before  the  book  could 
be  published,  but  gambling  is  given  fuller  treatment.  The  whole  charac- 
terization is  worked  from  the  outside  and  thus  lacks  poignancy,  but  as  a 
picturization  of  mental  and  moral  degeneration  it  marks  the  highest 
reaches  of  sterner  realism  in  nineteenth-century  America.  At  least  once, 
Norris  tried  to  get  it  published,  but  the  manuscript  was  left  in  such  a 
condition  that  his  brother  added  five  thousand  words  or  so  to  give  it  form. 
As  a  contribution  to  belles-lettres  the  novel  is  not  very  impressive. 

With  these  two  stories  Norris  practically  ended  his  flirtation  with  the 
philosophy  of  the  naturalists.  Moran  of  the  Lady  Letty,  Blix,  and  A  Man's 
Woman  boiled  the  pot  with  romantic  love,  spirited  adventure,  or  unamus- 
ing  caricature  and  rank  no  higher  than  Frederic's  The  Return  of  the 
O'Mahoney.  The  Octopus,  however,  is  a  splendid  performance.  It  was 
begun  as  the  first  novel  of  an  unfinished  trilogy  planned  to  carry  the 
story  of  wheat  from  the  time  of  its  being  raised  by  farmers  in  California 
to  its  eventual  consumption  by  starving  hordes  in  Asia.  It  is  an  immense 
network  of  episodes,  some  real,  some  poetically  imaginative,  and  its  main 
plot  entails  the  maneuvers  of  the  Pacific  and  Southern  Railroad  to  squeeze 
in  its  octopus  tentacles  a  group  of  rural  Calif ornians.  In  the  course  of  their 
resistance,  one  rancher  loses  his  honor  and  his  sanity,  another  turns  traitor 
against  his  father,  a  third  is  killed,  a  discharged  engineer  is  driven  to 
banditry,  and  the  daughter  of  a  tenant  farmer  is  forced  by  poverty  to 
become  a  prostitute.  Particularly  gripping  is  the  detailed  description 
of  a  luxurious  banquet  in  the  mansion  of  the  vice-president  of  the  rail- 
road which  the  author  interrupts  from  time  to  time  with  paragraphs 
detailing  the  starvation  of  a  farmer's  wife.  To  compensate  for  all  the 
economics,  there  are  episodes  such  as  a  rabbit-roundup  and  the  roman- 
tic love  story  of  a  sheepherder  equipped  with  the  power  of  extrasen- 
sory perception.  As  in  McTeague,  the  number  of  characters  is  huge- 
some  pronouncedly  Dickensian,  some  of  flesh  and  blood.  One  of  them,  the 
poet  Presley,  seems  to  represent  Norris  in  his  conclusion  that,  despite  the 
inequities  of  the  world,  "the  individual  suffers,  but  the  race  goes  on,"  and 
the  force  of  nature-symbolized  by  the  wheat-is  triumphant  over  all.  The 
president  of  the  railroad  is  described  as  a  very  charitable  person  but  one 
who  believes  that  men  cannot  withstand  the  powerful  institutions  of 
progress.  Norris's  failure  to  indict  capitalism  has  subjected  his  work  to 
hostile  criticism  at  the  hands  of  the  recent  proletarian  school,  but  the  story 
is  nevertheless  still  regarded  as  one  of  the  most  exemplary  novels  of  its 


754  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

period.  Had  he  been  capable  of  conclusive  reasoning  on  the  subject  of 
capital  and  labor,  he  would  still  have  refrained  from  preaching  his  doc- 
trines, for  he  was  averse  to  propaganda  in  literature  and,  of  course,  never 
realized  that  a  day  would  come  when  critics  would  expect  a  storvteller  to 
be  an  economic  theorist.  The  Octopus  shows  how  the  author  had  learned 
to  mix  Zola  and  Hugo,  Tolstoi  and  Dickens,  with  perhaps  a  dash  of 
Stevenson,  into  a  palatable  literary  cocktail  all  his  own.  It  sold  33,000 
copies  in  its  first  trade  edition,17  and  during  the  muckraking  period, 
which  it  helped  to  usher  in,  fared  very  well  indeed.  Its  influence  upon 
Jack  London  is  also  to  be  noted. 

After  this  bulky  narrative,  Norris  turned  to  the  second  element  in  his 
trilogy,  The  Fit:  A  Story  of  Chicago,  which  is  better  unified  but  almost 
forgets  the  wheat  in  the  process  of  purveying  a  love  story  and  an  account 
of  activities  in  the  Board  of  Trade  Building.  The  plot  is  in  part  based  upon 
a  virtual  corner  of  the  grain  market  held  in  1897  by  a  speculator  named 
Joseph  Leiter,  and  about  half  of  it  describes  a  similar  feat  by  the  hero, 
Curtis  Jadwin.  In  the  end  Jadwin  is  defeated  by  the  power  of  nature,  for 
the  new  crop  of  grain  emerges  with  such  plenitude  that  no  man  can 
control  it.  The  economic  debacle  of  Jadwin  is  unreasonable,  for  he  is 
portrayed  previously  as  a  very  shrewd  and  wise  trader,  though  Norris 
endeavors  to  explain  the  situation  by  having  him  suffer  fits  of  mental 
cloudiness.  The  restoration  of  his  wife's  affections  at  the  end  of  the  story 
also  seems  somewhat  artificial,  and  may  be  explained  as  a  sop  thrown  in 
the  direction  of  the  readers  of  The  Saturday  Evening  Post,  which  seri- 
alized it.  As  a  book,  it  quickly  sold  95,000  copies,  was  made  into  a  success- 
ful plav,  and  was  responsible  for  a  popular  game  of  cards  called  "Pit," 
which  delighted  children  during  the  "Progressive"  era.  What  Norris 
would  have  done  if  he  had  lived  longer  is  problematic;  but  the  promise 
held  out  by  his  last  novel  is  not  alluring.  McTeague  and  The  Octopus 
have  unusual  scope,  vitality,  and  energy  in  their  narrative  but  often  reveal 
the  contradictions  that  existed  in  the  mind  of  their  creator.  Norris  liked 
to  be  called  "The  Boy  Zola,"  but  "Boyish  Zola"  would  perhaps  be  more 


fitt 


ing 


18 


Of  all  the  more  advanced  realists  of  nineteenth-century  America, 
Stephen  Crane  ( 1 871-1900)  has  since  1920  enjoyed  the  greatest  popularity. 

17  Paul  H.  Bixler,  "Frank  Norris's  Literary  Reputation,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  6  (May, 
1934),  pp.  109-12 1. 

1  y  Marius  Biencourt,  in  Une  Influence  du  Naturalisme  Frangais  en  Amerique:  Frank 
Norris  (1933),  points  out  more  indebtedness  to  Zola  than  exists,  but  obviously  there 
is  plenty  of  it.  Though  Charles  Norris  claimed  that  Frank  returned  from  France  with 
a  knowledge  of  Zola,  Walker  assumes  that  it  was  not  until  he  was  a  student  at  the 
University  of  California  that  Frank  began  to  read  the  Frenchman.  More  recently, 
Lars  Ahncbrink  has  reverted  to  Charles  Norris's  view  {The  influence  of  Emile  Zola 
on  Frank  Norris  1 1947]). 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        755 

In  part,  this  is  due  to  the  fact  that  The  Red  Badge  of  Courage,  the  novel 
that  brought  him  fame  in  1895,  has  withstood  competition  from  the  hun- 
dreds of  realistic  tales  inspired  by  the  two  World  Wars  and  as  a  result  has 
attained,  despite  its  occasional  lapses  into  bad  grammar,  the  rank  of  the 
most  celebrated  treatment  of  battle  in  the  history  of  American  fiction.  In 
this  and  other  narratives,  Crane  anticipated  the  combination  of  ironic 
mood,  crisp  imagery,  and  staccato  sentences  so  noticeable  in  the  work  of 
the  "modern"  school  of  realists.  In  part  also,  his  vogue  is  due  to  the  fact 
that  in  Maggie:  A  Girl  of  the  Streets  (1893)  and  a  number  of  lesser  pieces 
he  was  a  forerunner  of  the  fiction  writers  who  have  more  lately  exploited 
with  an  air  of  objectivity  the  seamy  side  of  life  in  the  cities.  Furthermore, 
in  two  slight  volumes  he  foreshadowed  the  free  verse  and  Imagism  so 
widely  heralded  in  the  era  when  Amy  Lowell  was  beating  the  gongs  for 
the_"new"  poetry.  His  historical  importance  is  very  great.  Yet  Crane 
exhibits  fewer  signs  of  having  been  influenced  directly  by  the  naturalists 
of  Europe  than  does  Norris,  of  whose  kinetic  energy  and  panoramic 
massiveness  in  plot  he  was  incapable.  But  his  tenacity  in  holding  on  to  the 
realistic  method  was  greater  than  that  of  any  of  his  contemporaries  save 
Dreiser.  His  inclination  toward  the  materials  and  manners  of  the  naturalists 
was,  no  doubt,  sanctioned  by  the  perusal  of  Zola,  Flaubert,  and  his  early 
favorite,  Tolstoi,  but  probably  owed  more  to  a  native  propensity  to  revolt 
from  the  piety  and  idealism  of  his  childhood  environment.  Crane  was  the 
black  sheep  among  the  numerous  progeny  of  a  Methodist  clergyman.  He 
was  born  in  Newark,  New  Jersey,  and  passed  part  of  his  early  youth  in 
Port  Jervis,  New  York,  where  he  was  left  in  genteel  poverty  by  the  death 
of  his  father.  His  mother,  an  intelligent  woman  greatly  interested  in  social 
welfare,  contributed  to  church  periodicals  and  reported  Methodist  activi- 
ties for  the  New  York  Tribune  and  the  Philadelphia  Press.  Already  in 
1888,  the  lad  acquired  his  first  experience  as  a  journalist  when  set  to  work 
for  a  press  bureau  conducted  by  a  brother  in  Asbury  Park.  For  some 
months  he  distinguished  himself  as  a  baseball  player  at  two  different 
colleges— Lafayette  and  Syracuse— but  never  graduated. 

With  a  small  and  intermittent  income  from  reporting  for  various  papers, 
he  took  cheap  lodgings  in  New  York  City  and  proceeded  to  study  the 
unsavory  neighborhood  called  the  Bowery,  a  slum  section  then  celebrated 
in  song  and  story.  A  thin,  cocky  but  serious  youth,  with  his  fingers  yel- 
lowed by  cigarettes,  Crane  associated  with  a  group  of  bohemians  trying  to 
become  writers  or  painters— the  "Indians"  described  in  The  Third  Violet— 
and  from  his  companions  studying  at  the  Art  Students'  League  derived  a 
knowledge  of  impressionism  and  a  relish  for  color  which  were  carried 
over  into  his  own  work.  In  1892,  it  is  believed,  he  had  in  manuscript  the 
nouvelle  later  named  Maggie,  a  relentlessly  accurate  rendering  of  life 
among  the  Irish  slums,  with  a  slight  thread  of  plot  concerned  with  a 
Bowery  girl  who  commits  suicide  after  being  abandoned  by  her  bartender 


756  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

seducer.  In  its  unrelieved  sordidness  and  apparent  detachment  it  was  the 
most  shocking  treatment  that  slum  life  in  New  York  had  as  yet  received 
in  fiction,  and  was  rejected  by  the  magazines.  But  the  resolute  author, 
meanwhile  selling  sketches  to  the  Tribune,  borrowed  funds  and  hired  a 
"firm  of  religious  and  medical  printers"  to  bring  it  out  as  a  book.  Though 
priced  at  fifty  cents,  few  copies  were  sold,  and  fewer  received  notice  by 
reviewers.  When  questioned  later  as  to  the  purpose  of  the  story,  Crane  is 
alleged  to  have  replied:  "I  had  no  other  purpose  in  writing  Maggie  than 
to  show  people  to  people  as  they  seem  to  me,"  but  on  the  cover  of  a  copy 
sent  to  a  clergyman  he  wrote  as  follows: 

It  is  inevitable  that  this  book  will  greatly  shock  you,  but  continue,  pray,  with 
great  courage  to  the  end,  for  it  tries  to  show  that  environment  is  a  tremendous 
thing  in  this  world,  and  often  shapes  lives  regardlessly.  If  one  could  prove 
that  theory,  one  would  make  room  in  Heaven  for  all  sorts  of  souls  (notably 
an  occasional  street  girl)  who  are  not  confidently  expected  to  be  there  by 
many  excellent  people.19 

Preoccupation  with  environment  is  doubtless  a  cardinal  feature  of 
Maggie,  for,  as  in  many  of  Crane's  works,  the  characters  are  merely 
attached  figures  or  victims.  Hamlin  Garland,  an  acquaintance  of  the 
young  author,  gave  the  story  one  of  its  first  reviews,  in  a  minor  crusading 
journal,  and  enlisted  the  services  of  Howells  in  befriending  him.  Soon 
Crane  was  interrupting  his  endeavors  in  prose  with  sporadic  ebullitions  of 
peculiar  poems.20  A  small  collection  of  these  comprised  his  next  book, 
The  Black  Riders  (1895).  In  form  these  verses  at  times  play  loosely  with 
an  iambic  rhythm  but  often  are  without  metre.  All  are  intellectual  rather 
than  emotional,  and  their  chief  devices  are  symbolism  and  metaphors. 
They  are  reflective,  suggestive,  fragmentary.  When  entertaining  both 
Crane  and  Garland  after  dinner,  Howells  once  read  aloud  some  of  the 
verses  of  Emily  Dickinson,  and  this  circumstance  has  sometimes  been 
adduced  to  substantiate  the  opinion  that  her  irregularity  inspired  his. 
Presumably,  he  had  at  least  heard  of  Leaves  of  Grass,  but  there  is  no 
evidence  of  his  knowledge  of  Whitman.  Of  the  French  writers  of  free 
verse  he  must  have  known  nothing,  since  he  is  reported  as  having 
answered  an  inquiry  as  to  his  admiration  of  Mallarme:  "I  don't  know 
much  about  Irish  authors."  Amy  Lowell's  guess  that  Crane  found  the  form 
for  his  free  verse  in  the  Bible  21  is  as  good  as  any— or  as  bad. 

Except  possibly  for  a  less  consequential  and  less  offensive  companion 
piece  to  Maggie,  later  published  as  George's  Mother  (1896),  Crane's  next 
project  was  an  attempt  to  win  over  the  public  with  material  sure  to  attract 

l!*  Bookman,  Vol.  1  (May,  1895),  p.  229. 

20  For  an  account  of  Crane's  method  of  composition  in  verse,  see  Garland,  Roadside 
Meetings  (1930),  Chap.  XVI.  Crane's  manuscripts,  however,  show  that  at  least  some 
of  his  poems  did  not  spring  full-rounded  from  his  brain,  as  Garland  maintains. 

21  Intro.,  The  Black  Riders  and  Other  Lines,  "The  Work  of  Stephen  Crane" 
(I  1926]),  Vol.  6,  p.  xix. 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        757 

attention— the  Civil  War,  and  by  1894  he  had  finished  the  manuscript  of 
The  Red  Badge  of  Courage.  In  a  shortened  form,  it  was  serialized  through 
a  syndicate  operated  by  Irving  Bacheller  and  was  successful  enough  to 
lead  to  a  roving  commission  in  Texas  and  Mexico.  Soon  after  the  novel 
appeared  as  a  book,  published  by  D.  Appleton  and  Company,  Crane 
found  himself  suddenly  famous.  The  story  was  attacked  as  sensationalism, 
decried  by  the  Grand  Army  of  the  Republic  as  a  reflection  on  the  courage 
of  Union  troops,  but  praised  bv  Howells  and  others.  Enthusiastic  com- 
ments from  England  also  began  to  be  heard,  and  in  both  countries  sales 
started  to  acquire  momentum.  Though  it  fell  a  little  short  of  becoming  a 
best  seller,  it  gave  Crane  an  enviable  status  as  a  phenomenal  genius  aged 
twenty-four,  especially  among  editors  and  newsmen.  Thereafter  the 
demand  for  more  of  his  work  was  unceasing.  McClure's  Magazine  bought 
a  collection  of  his  Texan  and  Mexican  stories,  he  was  urged  to  write  a 
novel  about  a  newspaperman,  the  dramatist  Clyde  Fitch  asked  him  to 
collaborate  on  a  Civil  War  play,  Maggie  was  in  1896  given  its  first  real 
publication,  and,  the  same  year,  an  inevitable  group  of  shorter  pieces 
described  as  "episodes  of  the  American  Civil  War"  came  out  in  book 
form.  The  publicity  now  given  Maggie  had  at  least  one  bad  effect:  it  set 
off  a  firecracker  chain  of  rumors  that  the  emaciated  youth  was  a  de- 
bauchee, undermined  in  health  by  dissipation  and  drugs.  The  author's 
proneness  to  help  a  streetwalker  in  distress  did  not  serve  to  quiet  such 
gossip. 

The  Red  Badge  of  Courage,  Crane's  outstanding  work  in  the  eyes  of 
his  contemporaries,  has  as  yet  not  been  traced  to  any  definite  source.  Any 
number  of  first-hand  descriptions  of  the  Civil  War  could  have  supplied 
him  with  information.22  One  of  his  relatives  has  been  pointed  to  as  an 
expert  on  the  Battle  of  Chancellorsville,  and  among  the  talkative  veterans 
known  to  him  was  the  headmaster  of  a  preparatory  school  which  he  once 
attended.  Critics  have  sometimes  compared  the  story  with  Tolstoi's 
authentic  description  of  men  under  fire  in  the  three  sketches  that  comprise 
Sevastopol.  But  the  method  of  Crane  and  that  of  Tolstoi  have  little  in 
common,  though  the  not  unusual  depiction  of  a  young  soldier  at  first 
fearful  of  being  afraid  and  later  recklessly  valiant  occurs  in  both  narra- 
tives, centrally  in  Crane's  and  very  incidentally  in  Tolstoi's.  Henry  James 
recommended  The  Red  Badge  as  a  good  "imitation"  of  Zola,  and  others 
have  sought  to  find  in  "L'Attaque  du  Moulin"  or  in  La  Debacle  significant 
parallels,  but  to  little  avail.23  The  similarity  of  the  account  of  the  Battle  of 

22  A  glimpse  of  the  fiction  alone  may  be  had  in  R.  W.  Smith,  "Catalogue  of  the 
Chief  Novels  and  Short  Stories  by  American  Authors  Dealing  with  the  Civil  War 
and  Its  Effects,  1861-1899,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  16  (Sept.  1935),  pp.  193-194;  Vol.  17 
(Jan.,  1940-April,  1941),  pp.  10-12,  33-35,  53-55,  72-75.  See  also,  for  example,  Daniel 
J.  Ryan,  The  Civil  War  Literature  of  Ohio:  A  Bibliography  (Cleveland,  191 1). 

23  Salvan  comments  on  the  differences  between  the  two  authors  and  suggests  that 
Zola  may  have  played  the  role  of  catalyst  {Zola  aux  Etats-Unis,  p.  166). 


758  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Waterloo  in  Stendhal's  La  Chartreuse  de  Parme  has  also  been  mentioned,24 
but  indebtedness  to  it  seems  unlikely.  Until  we  have  further  enlighten- 
ment, it  is  perhaps  safest  to  conclude  that  Crane  could  have  derived  ideas 
from  any  number  of  French  stories  dealing  with  the  Napoleonic  cam- 
paigns or  with  the  Franco-Prussian  War,  ranging  from  those  by  Erck- 
mann-Chatrian  to  those  by  Zola,  but  that  he  probably  obtained  most  aid 
from  the  graphic  pictures  of  Civil  War  action  in  the  old  files  of  American 
illustrated  periodicals. 

In  1 896  filibustering  in  Cuba  was  arousing  discussion,  and  the  Bacheller 
Syndicate  sent  Crane  southward.  From  Jacksonville,  Florida,  after  haunt- 
ing the  dives  of  the  waterfront,  he  embarked  with  a  party  of  insurrection- 
ists and  abreast  of  St.  Augustine  was  shipwrecked.  His  own  experiences 
in  reaching  shore  are  inimitably  described  in  "The  Open  Boat,"  one  of  his 
most  justly  praised  sketches.  After  recovery  from  this  exposure,  Crane 
was  sent  off  to  cover  the  war  between  the  Greeks  and  Turks  for  Hearst's 
New  York  Journal  and  for  the  London  Westminster  Gazette.  Much  of 
the  fighting  he  missed,  and  his  misfortune  was  heightened  by  an  attack  of 
dysentery,  through  which  he  was  nursed  by  a  woman  of  disreputable 
character  whom  he  had  met  in  Jacksonville  and  whom  he  afterwards 
married  in  Paris.  The  couple  set  up  housekeeping  in  an  old  house  in 
Surrey,  lavishly  entertaining  a  horde  of  hangers-on  as  well  as  friends  like 
Harold  Frederic,  Henry  James,  and  Joseph  Conrad.  In  1897  appeared  The 
Third  Violet,  a  nouvelle  in  which  Crane's  impressionism  appears  more  like 
sketchiness  and  an  example  of  how  ill  suited  he  was  to  write  a  love  story 
of  the  sort  that  appealed  to  Howells.  He  began  the  promised  novel  with 
a  reporter  as  hero,  using  as  background  his  experiences  in  Greece,  but  soon 
set  it  aside  for  shorter  narratives,  particularly  "The  Monster"  (1899),  a 
powerfully  tragic  tale  of  a  Negro  maimed  in  a  fire,  too  horrible  for  the 
editors  of  The  Century.  The  war  with  Spain  quickly  brought  him  back 
across  the  sea,  this  time  to  report  for  Pulitzer's  New  York  World,  but  a 
fever  contracted  in  Cuba  so  exhausted  him  that  he  never  fully  recovered. 
A  few  excellent  tales,  as  well  as  some  very  inferior  ones,  were  published 
in  The  Open  Boat  (1898),  followed  the  next  year  by  a  second  little 
volume  of  his  idiomatic  verses,  War  is  Kind,  in  nature  very  similar  to  the 
earlier  collection,  and  the  novel  Active  Service.  This  last  proves  how 
Crane's  prolificness  negated  his  virtues,  for  its  plot  is  that  of  a  comic 
opera,  and,  except  for  some  of  the  Greek  background,  its  approximation 
to  reality  is  undiscoverable.  Like  many  another  shorter  piece  which  Crane 
rushed  into  print,  it  is  shoddy. 

For  reasons  not  altogether  clear,  except  that  his  work  was  now  as  much 
in  demand  in  Great  Britain  as  in  the  United  States,  and  perhaps  more 
favorably  received  by  critics,  he  escaped  the  feting  in  New  York  after 

24  M.  L.  Green,  "The  Stendhal  of  American  Publications,"  Revue  de  Litter ature 
Comparee,  Vol.  10  (April,  1930),  p.  311. 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING        759 

the  war  and  early  in  1 899  returned  to  England,  where  he  bought  an  estate, 
Brede  Place,  not  far  from  Rye.  There  he  was  so  frequently  discommoded 
by  jolly  guests  that  he  could  work  only  with  difficulty,  but  he  rushed  to 
make  good  his  promise  of  a  series  of  articles  on  great  battles,  finished  more 
sketches  and  tales,  and  plotted  his  last  novel,  The  O' Ruddy  (1903).  This 
last  is  a  pure  and  unadulterated  romance,  replete  with  love  at  first  sight, 
swordplay,  highwaymen,  and  smugglers.  It  ends  with  the  Irish  hero  win- 
ning the  hand  of  his  beautiful  lady  after  a  siege  of  Brede  Place.  The  whole 
plot  is  of  Crane's  concoction,  but  he  lived  to  write  only  the  first  chapters; 
the  rest  was  composed  by  his  friend  Robert  Barr.  A  hemorrhage  of  the 
lungs  showed  him  to  be  in  the  last  stages  of  tuberculosis,  and,  bidding 
Conrad,  H.  G.  Wells,  and  other  friends  adieu,  he  departed  for  the  Black 
Forest  of  Germany,  where  he  soon  died,  five  months  before  his  twenty- 
ninth  birthday.  It  is  a  curious  fact  that  Frederic,  Norris,  and  Crane  all  died 
at  a  very  early  age. 

Compared  with  his  historical  importance  as  a  precursor  of  momentous 
developments  in  both  prose  and  verse,  Crane's  intrinsic  significance  is  less. 
His  poems  have  little  weight,  and  much  of  his  prose  is  hasty  journalism. 
The  Red  Badge  of  Courage,  however,  is  probably  the  most  successful 
depiction  of  warfare  as  reflected  in  the  experiences  of  a  common  soldier 
ever ^jvritten  by  a  novelist  himself  previously  unacquainted  with  battle. 
The  confusion,  the  awfulness,  the  callousness  of  military  murder  are 
etched  upon  the  reader's  mind  by  the  visual  qualities  of  the  selected  detail, 
and  the  totality  of  effect  is  cannily  conveyed  by  the  impressionistic 
method.  But  Crane's  genius  was  not  suited  to  the  demands  of  mass  or 
broad  action.  His  peculiar  gifts  are  perhaps  best  displayed  in  a  few  of  his 
shorter  narratives,  like  "The  Open  Boat,"  "The  Monster,"  "The  Blue 
Hotel,"  and  "The  Bride  Comes  to  Yellow  Sky."  Without  the  sense  of 
form  which  controls  the  work  of  James  or  Harte,  or  even  Ambrose  Bierce, 
these  tales  nevertheless  rank  high  in  the  annals  of  the  American  short  story. 
They  do  not  pretend  to  plumb  deeply  into  human  nature  but  succeed  in 
suggesting  the  implacability  of  fate  in  the  disposition  of  human  destiny. 
In  Crane's  eyes,  nature  was  neither  malign  nor  beneficent— but  unflag- 
gingly  indifferent  to  humanity.  In  conveying  this  impression  of  the  indiffer- 
ence of  nature  he  is  one  of  the  most  scientific  litterateurs  of  his  generation. 
Next  to  these  short  stories,  and  a  few  others  that  are  similar,  one  would 
place  certain  of  his  narratives  that  deal  with  the  life  of  the  slums,  like 
Maggie  and  "An  Experiment  in  Misery,"  which  never  subordinate  honesty 
in  observation  and  are  as  important  in  reflecting  the  American  scene  as  the 
work  of  the  regionalists.  Mention  should  also  be  made  of  Whilomville 
Stories  (1900)  and  the  other  sketches  of  children,  in  which  the  author 
displays  an  understanding  of  childhood  no  less  profound  for  being  iron- 
ically expressed.  What  his  subsequent  work  would  have  been  like,  had  he 
lived  longer,  is,  again,  an  unanswerable  question;  but  The  O^Ruddy  comes 


760  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

close  to  offering  evidence  that  its  planner  had  travelled  far  from  Maggie 
in  accommodating  the  facts  of  life  to  the  avid  appetite  for  pleasant  reading. 


How  atypical  sterner  realism  was  in  the  nineties  may  be  observed  in  the 
work  of  three  other  newspaper  journalists  who  wrote  fiction:  Ambrose 
Gwinett  Bierce  (1842- 19 14?),  Richard  Harding  Davis  (1864- 19 16),  and 
Edward  Waterman  Townsend  (1855-1942).  The  first  of  these  men  was 
born  in  Ohio  and  served  as  an  officer  in  the  Civil  War,  afterwards  migrat- 
ing to  California.  For  a  while  he  had  a  reputation  as  a  humorous  Jack  the 
Ripper  of  the  San  Francisco  press  but  later  was  known  the  country  over 
as  a  cynical  columnist  for  the  Hearst  papers.  In  191 3  Bierce  left  for 
Mexico,  to  report  on  the  depredations^  f  the  bandit  Pancho  Villa,  and 
soon  ceased  to  be  heard  from,  a  circumstance  that  has  given  rise  to  many 
rumors  about  the  means  whereby  he  died.  In  his  Collected  Works  (1909- 
1 2 )  he  garnered  his  better  prose  and  verse  in  twelve  volumes,  but  little  of 
the  contents  has  showed  enduring  qualities  except  The  Devil's  Dictionary, 
a  collection  of  sardonic  definitions  earlier  published  as  The  Cynic's  Word 
Book  (1906),  and  a  cluster  of  short  stories  issued  in  1891  as  Tales  of 
Soldiers  and  Civilians,  later  entitled  In  the  Midst  of  Life.  Some  of  these  are 
grim  episodes  of  the  Civil  War,  and  others  are  nonmilitary  horror-thrillers. 
On  occasion,  they  seem  to  anticipate  Crane  in  irony  and  visual  detail,  but 
Bierce's  primary  purpose  was  to  produce  shock.  The  elements  of  horror, 
somewhat  reminiscent  of  Poe's,  and,  above  all  else,  the  clever  manipulation 
of  suspense  toward  a  surprise  ending  have  given  many  of  these  tales  a 
lasting  popularity.  An  especially  good  example  of  their  quality  is  to  be 
found  in  "An  Occurrence  at  Owl  Creek  Bridge,"  a  most  ingenious  re-crea- 
tion of  the  thoughts  that  flit  through  the  consciousness  of  a  Southern 
planter  at  the  moment  of  his  being  hanged  as  a  spy.  A  second  collection 
of  Bierce's  stories,  Can  Such  Things  Be?  (1893),  is  similar  in  contents  and 
method  to  the  earlier  volume  of  tales  but  contains  fewer  specimens  of  the 
author's  talent  at  its  highest. 

Davis,  a  Philadelphian,  son  of  the  novelist  Rebecca  Harding  Davis,  was 
the  most  famous  war  correspondent  of  his  day,  the  beau  ideal  of  journalists 
who  sought  not  only  to  get  the  facts  but  to  dramatize  them.  Soon  after 
joining  the  brilliant  group  of  young  men  assembled  by  Charles  Anderson 
Dana  to  enable  the  New  York  Sun  to  compete  with  the  papers  of  Pulitzer 
and  Hearst,  he  made  his  name  as  a  storywriter  with  a  tale  featuring 
Gallegher,  a  newspaper  office  boy,  and  a  variety  of  stories  introducing 
Van  Bibber,  a  young  aristocrat  who  knows  his  way  about  town.  Gallegher 
and  Other  Stories  ( 1 89 1 )  and  Van  Bibber  and  Others  (1892)  are  marked 
by  humor,  sentiment,  adventure,  and  an  authentic  background  of  city  life. 
They  struck  collegians  like  Frank  Norris  as  almost  equal  in  power  to  the 
talcs  of  Kipling.  Now,  they  are  almost  dead,  as  are  also  the  author's  many 


THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING       761 

volumes  of  reporting,  novels,  and  plays  that  succeeded  them.  Davis's  gun 
was  aimed  pointblank  at  the  widest  market,  and  he  mixed  newer  materials 
with  older  methods.  He  is  without  peer  as  an  example  of  what  the  nineties 
most  enjoyed  in  the  way  of  newspaper  man  turned  fiction  writer.  As  a 
reporter,  however,  his  skill  was  undeniable,  and  here  and  there  among  his 
later  short  stories  one  finds  an  occasional  choice  bit,  like  "The  Bar  Sinis- 
ter" (1902),  one  of  the  best  animal  tales  ever  written  in  the  United  States. 
As  he  himself  remarked  after  perusing  the  many  letters  prompted  by  this 
story,  "A  large  proportion  of  readers  prefer  their  dose  of  fiction  with  a 
sweetening  of  fact."  No  statement  can  more  nearly  approximate  an  anal- 
ysis of  the  taste  of  the  nineties  than  that. 

The  dash-of-fact  formula  is  also  apparent  in  the  fiction  of  Edward 
Waterman  Townsend,  another  Ohioan  who  began  his  newspaper  career  in 
California.  From  Hearst's  San  Francisco  Examiner  he  moved  to  the  New 
York  Sim  in  1892,  shortly  after  Davis  had  joined  its  staff,  and  later  entered 
politics.  After  two  terms  as  Congressman  from  New  Jersey  and  a  sinecure 
as  postmaster,  he  drifted  back  into  the  fourth  estate  and  during  the  nine- 
teen-twenties  wrote  for  the  New  York  Times.  Inspired  no  doubt  by  Davis, 
he  conceived  a  slangy,  humorous  denizen  of  the  slums  whom  he  called 
Chimmie  Fadden  and  supplied  him  with  amusing  adventures  to  delight  the 
readers  of  the  Sunday  papers.  The  humor,  very  naturally,  carried  these 
tales  on  to  success  when  they  were  collected  in  books  like  "Chimmie 
Fadden";  Major  Max:  and  Other  Stories  (1895).  Between  Townsend's 
Bowery  Irishman  and  Crane's  slum  characters  there  is  a  great  gulf  fixed, 
and  Chimmie's  entertaining  lingo  is  far  different  from  the  dullish  utter- 
ances of  Maggie's  associates.  The  Major  Max  tales  were  another  popular 
group,  for  the  most  part  told  by  a  fictitious  army  man  who  has  served  in 
the  Far  West,  especially  in  Nevada.  The  influence  of  Bret  Harte  upon 
them  is  profound.  It  is  also  notable  in  A  Daughter  of  the  Tenements 
(1895),  the  first  of  Townsend's  novels.  This  romance  covers  the  rise  to 
fame  of  an  Italian  girl  brought  up  in  Mulberry  Bend,  a  notorious  section 
of  New  York  City,  and  contains  much  authentic  Bowery  life.  In  its  sixth 
chapter  there  is  a  description  of  a  Jewish  sweatshop  tenement  which  is  as 
revolting  as  anything  in  Crane;  but  the  touches  of  social  protest  are 
slighted  for  humor  and  adventure,  and  one  of  the  characters  is  even  taken 
out  to  California  for  a  stagecoach  holdup  and  a  lucky  strike  in  a  mine.  The 
West,  the  author  gravely  observes,  "retains  today  nearly  as  many  romantic 
elements  as  it  had  when  the  master  pictured  it  for  the  world  at  Simpson's 
bar  and  at  Roaring  Camp."  25  The  hand  of  the  master  also  shaped  the 
conclusion  of  the  novel,  for  all  the  wicked  characters  save  one  turn  out 
to  be  pretty  good  people  after  all,  including  a  tough  who  lives  on  Mott 
Street  in  a  Chinese  opium  den. 

Writers  like  Davis  and  Townsend  knew  as  much  about  the  dreary  side 

25  p.  170. 


762  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  city  life  as  did  Crane,  but  they  also  knew  that  the  public  wanted  pleas- 
ant reading.  In  general,  the  facts  of  life  were  acceptable  as  news  during 
the  nineties  but  not  as  fiction,  and  when  they  were  touched  upon  the 
preferred  manner  of  handling  them  was  still  that  of  Dickens  and  Bret 
Harte.26 

26  Dreiser  recalled  the  fact  that  during  his  early  newspaper  days,  "All  specials 
were  being  written  in  imitation  of  the  great  novelists,  particularly  Charles  Dickens" 
but  mentioned  an  editor  in  St.  Louis  who  called  upon  him  to  imitate  Zola's  descriptions 
of  the  drab  and  gross  and  horrible  (A  Book  about  Myself  [1923],  pp.  65,  207). 


Chapter  38 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF 
SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  AND  OF  SCIENCE 


The  literature  produced  during  the  later  nineteenth  century,  when 
compared  with  that  of  the  twentieth  century,  gives  fewer  indications 
of  having  accepted  the  challenges  presented  by  the  economic  and  social 
problems  incident  to  the  rise  of  industry.  The  ills  of  society  were  un- 
questionably less  attractive  as  subject  matter  to  the  authors  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  than  to  their  successors  who  wrote  amidst  the  agitation  of 
the  muckraking  era  or  reaped  the  whirlwind  of  1929.  The  problems  of  the 
seventies  and  eighties  provided  no  celebrated  cause  as  generally  demand- 
ing as  Slavery  had  earlier  seemed  to  poets  and  novelists,  and  as  yet  there 
was  no  overweening  faith  in  the  social  sciences  such  as  more  lately  has 
allowed  economics  at  times  to  usurp  the  functions  of  literary  criticism  or 
permitted  sociology  to  rout  theology  from  even  the  divinity  schools.  But, 
setting  aside  any  comparison  with  our  own  age,  the  decades  following  the 
Civil  War  reveal  an  interest  in  social  and  economic  issues  greater  than  that 
displayed  by  any  previous  generations,  and,  indeed,  such  interest  is  usually 
regarded  as  one  of  the  signal  characteristics  of  the  period.  The  old  files  of 
The  Forum  will  probably  illumine  readers  of  the  present  day  who  are  in 
the  habit  of  picking  up  their  sociology  from  Harper's  Magazine.  If  a  graph 
were  made  to  illustrate  the  attention  devoted  to  the  ailments  of  an  indus- 
trial society  during  the  period,  it  would  reveal  a  steady  rise  throughout 
the  era  of  postwar  scandals  and  the  depression  of  1873,  a  very  considerable 
advance  during  the  late  eighties,  and  a  remarkable  nourishing  after  the 
panic  of  1893.1 

The  encroachment  of  social  studies  upon  the  literary  domain  varies 

1  A  partial  index  has  been  provided  by  Lisle  A.  Rose,  "A  Bibliographical  Survey 
of  Economic  and  Political  Writing,  1865- 1900,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  15  (Jan.  1944),  pp. 
381-410,  to  which  mimeographed  supplements  have  been  added  (Houghton,  Mich., 
1944;  Urbana,  111.,  rev.  with  additions,  1948).  A  third  supplement  appeared  from 
Urbana  in  1949. 

763 


764  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

directly  with  the  curve  of  secular  interest.  As  newspaper  reports,  pam- 
phlets of  the  humanitarian  societies,  magazine  essays,  and  books  about  the 
Jukes  family  increased  in  number,  so  did  the  novels  and  poems  which 
reflected  the  life  of  the  day.  As  has  already  been  noted,  Whitman,  Lanier, 
and  Stedman,  as  well  as  DeForest  and  Cable,  were  among  those  who 
discussed  the  tribulations  following  the  Civil  War;  Howells,  beginning 
in  the  late  eighties,  showed  a  keen  awareness  of  the  conflict  between 
capital  and  labor;  Garland  and  Norris  trenchantly  pictured  agrarian  un- 
rest; and,  in  the  nineties,  both  realists  and  romancers  brought  the  seamy 
side  of  city  life  before  the  eyes  of  readers  of  fiction.  Higginson  was  such 
an  inveterate  champion  of  the  rights  of  women  that  he  actually  refused 
to  attend  a  meeting  of  the  Modern  Language  Association  until  assured  that 
females  were  freely  admitted.  Rebecca  Harding  Davis  was  only  one  of 
the  sentimentalists  of  the  sixties  and  seventies  to  sketch  scenes  of  poverty 
with  such  vigor  that  she  may  be  mistaken  for  a  realistic  novelist.  The 


C5 


crusade  for  the  American  Indians  which  highlights  certain  of  Garland's 
later  works  is  also  evident  in  the  writings  of  Helen  Hunt  Jackson,  not  only 
in  Ramona  but,  better  still,  in  her  treatise  on  A  Century  of  Dishonor 
(1881). 

Old  George  William  Curtis  raised  his  eloquent  voice  and  printed  many 
a  powerful  plea  for  civil-service  reform  and  industrial  harmony;  and 
Charles  Dudley  Warner,  like  almost  every  other  prolific  essayist  of  his 
day,  at  times  qualified  as  an  amateur  sociologist.  A  scholar  who  has  con- 
fined his  studies  to  the  limited  area  of  the  economic  novel  alone  offers  his 
opinion  that  "Our  post-Civil-War  literature  treats,  with  seriousness  and 
vigor,  precisely  the  same  problem  that  occupied  the  great  Victorian  social 
critics  from  Carlyle  through  William  Morris— the  problem  of  assimilating 
into  a  previously  existent  humane  culture  the  disruptive  forces  of  cap- 
italistic industrialism."  2 

Further  demonstration  of  the  economic  and  sociological  concern  of  the 
literature  of  the  period  requires  a  descent  from  the  loftier  planes  of  art, 
for  the  tendency  of  authors  with  axes  to  grind  is  often  to  write  as  if  "the 
one  thing  needful"  were  the  only  thing  needful  in  literature.  The  impor- 
tance of  secular  discussion  may  vary  indirectly  with  significance  as  belles- 
lettres,  and  one  does  not  need  to  wait  for  Upton  Sinclair  to  find  an  illustra- 
tion. An  earlier  case  in  point,  among  many  others,  is  supplied  by  John 
Hay's  The  Bread-Winners:  A  Social  Study,  anonymously  published  in 
18K4  and  reputed  to  be  one  of  the  first  American  novels  to  deal  at  con- 
siderable length  with  a  strike.  The  Bread- Winners  are  a  group  of  radical 
workmen,  captained  by  charlatans,  who  play  a  part  in  a  disturbance  in 
Bufrland,  on  the  Great  Lakes.  To  provide  a  vehicle  for  discrediting  labor 
agitators,  Hay  works  up  a  sentimental  narrative  with  a  fifth-rate  love  story 
and  an  implausible  set  of  characters.  As  literature,  the  story  is  without 
2  Walter  F.  Taylor,  The  Economic  Novel  hi  America  (1942),  p.  10. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  765 

value.  The  same  is  true  of  such  a  well-meaning  collection  of  verses  as  The 
Factory -Bell:  And  Other  Poems  (1873),  written  by  Thoreau's  disciple 
Daniel  Ricketson  (1813-98)  and  dedicated  to  "the  honest  and  industrious 
poor."  Their  purpose,  said  the  author,  was  to  express  sympathy  for  the 
working  class  "and  to  look  forward  to  a  day  of  shorter  hours,  better 
health,  and  education  for  mill  operatives."  The  virtuosity  of  the  pieces 
may  be  sampled  in  a  quatrain  from  "Free  Trade,  Free  Soil,  Free  Men": 

No   land   monopolies   should   here 
E'er  exercise  their  base  control; 
Nor  corporations,  far  and  near, 
Wreak  on  the  poor  their  want  of  soul. 


Somewhat  better  are  the  works  of  Albion  Winegar  Tourgee  (1838- 
1905),  the  leading  writer  of  propaganda  fiction  in  the  early  eighties.  His 
book  entitled  A  Fool's  Errand  (1879)  was  the  most  widely  read  native 
novel  of  purpose  to  appear  between  the  time  of  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  and 
that  of  Edward  Bellamy's  Looking  Backward.  It  sold  over  eighty  thou- 
sand copies  in  about  a  year  and  was  translated  into  German  and  Finnish. 
An  Ohioan  trained  as  a  lawyer,  Tourgee  served  as  an  officer  in  the  Civil 
War,  and,  though  a  "radical"  Republican,  removed  in  1865  to  North 
Carolina  where  he  soon  become  a  carpet-bagger  politician.  No  one  saw 
the  iniquities  of  Reconstruction  at  closer  range  than  he.  Known  to  North 
Carolinians  as  the  "meanest  Yankee  who  has  ever  settled  among  us,"  by 
1879  he  had  his  fill  of  social  ostracism  and  left  the  South,  armed  with 
manuscripts  and  fired  with  a  zeal  for  helping  the  Republican  Party  in  its 
effort  to  reconstruct  the  region  below  the  Mason-Dixon  Line.  A  FooVs 
Errand^  anonymously  published  as  the  work  of  "one  of  the  fools,"  was  at 
first  sometimes  attributed  to  Mrs.  Stowe— not  without  reason,  for  one  of 
its  most  touching  characters,  an  old  Negro  martyr  named  Jerry  Hunt, 
was  an  obvious  steal  from  Uncle  Tom.  The  book  is  a  badly-organized 
combination  of  political  tract  and  old-fashioned  romance,  spiced  with 
•lurid  instances  of  the  mistreatment  of  Unionists  and  Negroes.  A  stirring 
chapter  describing  the  mad  ride  of  a  beautiful  girl  to  save  her  father's  life 
and  other  scenes  of  the  Ku  Klux  Klan  in  action  helped  to  promote  its 
circulation,  as  did  also  its  efforts  to  arouse  the  North  to  the  realization 
that  the  Southerners  were  regaining  control  of  their  section.  In  the  midst 
of  its  heavy-handed  discussion  of  the  failures  of  Reconstruction,  it  offers 
as  accurate  a  diagnosis  of  the  chief  problems  of  the  South  as  exists.  The 
remedy  that  Tourgee  proposed  in  this  and  other  works  is  still  voiced, 
namely,  better  education  and  the  co-operation  of  the  nation  as  a  whole.  In 
a  sequel,  likewise  popular,  called  Bricks  without  Straw  (1880),  the  author 
continued  to  exploit  the  Klan  and  to  advocate  the  betterment  of  education, 


766  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

arguing  that  the  Federal  government  should  allocate  funds  in  proportion 
to  the  illiteracy  of  the  various  communities.  In  several  other  novels, 
Tourgee  strove  amain  to  call  attention  to  the  plight  of  the  Southern 
Negro.  His  views  received  consideration  by  political  leaders,  especially 
his  friend  Garfield,  but  when  the  waving  of  the  bloody  shirt  turned  out 
to  be  bad  politics  his  efforts  ceased  to  be  respected.  The  noise  made  by 
his  books  was  at  length  drowned  out  by  the  happier  outcry  in  praise  of 
the  nostalgic  pictures  of  the  happy  Black  Joes  of  the  old  regime  sketched 
by  the  local  colorists.  Late  in  the  eighties,  Tourgee  admitted  that,  so  far 
as  literature  was  concerned,  the  Southerners  had  indeed  won  the  war.3 


The  same  year  in  which  A  FooVs  Errand  appeared  also  saw  the  first 
edition  of  the  most  widely  read  economic  treatise  ever  written  by  an 
American,  Progress  and  Poverty  (1879),  by  Henry  George  (1839-97). 
The  author  was  a  struggling  journalist  in  California,  with  no  schooling 
beyond  his  fourteenth  year,  a  man  who  had  eaten  the  bitter  bread  of 
poverty  as  sailor,  typesetter,  and  politician.  While  his  doctrines  had  been 
earlier  expressed  in  a  pamphlet  on  Our  Land  and  Land  Policy  (1871),  it 
was  the  long-continued  trouble  following  1873  that  set  him  to  work  on 
his  "inquiry  into  the  cause  of  industrial  depressions  and  of  increase  of 
want  with  increase  of  wealth."  Both  at  that  time  and  before,  many  others 
attempted  similar  answers  to  the  question  why  depressions  came  along 
even  as  nations  fattened  in  wealth,  but  none  caught  the  ear  of  the  public 
better  than  George.  Progress  and  Poverty  was  meant  to  be  a  literary  as 
well  as  an  economic  performance.  It  is  ornamented  with  allusion— quotes 
Plato  and  Taine,  as  well  as  the  Orientals— has  an  elaborately  logical  ar- 
rangement, and  is  free  from  technical  jargon.  Its  explanations  are  made  by 
simple  analogies,  and  at  times  it  tingles  with  eloquence.  Such  qualities, 
along  with  an  appealing  subject,  whirled  it  into  a  vast  popularity  in  both 
the  United  States  and  Europe.  In  essence,  George's  reasoning  is  of  the 
traditional  romantic-moralistic  variety.  The  shadow  of  the  Transcenden- 
talists  falls  upon  it.  "The  truth  which  the  intellect  grasps  after  toilsome 
effort  is  but  that  which  the  moral  sense  reaches  by  a  quick  intuition";' 
"economic  law  and  moral  law  are  essentially  one." 4  Integral  to  the 
panacea  proposed  by  George  is  the  doctrine  later  known  as  the  "single 
tax,"  namely,  that  the  income  arising  from  land,  as  a  result  of  an  "unearned 
increment,"  and  the  returns  from  the  ownership  of  natural  resources  such 
as  minerals  should  all  go  to  the  state,  to  be  collected  as  a  tax  which  would 
be  practically  the  sole  income  of  the  government.  Once  this  kind  of  tax 
were  instituted,  the  revenues  accruing  from  the  common  property— i.e., 

8  "The  South  as  a  Field  of  Fiction,"  Forum,  Vol.  6  (Dec.  1888),  pp.  404-413.  His 
plans  for  educating  the  South  are  best  read  in  the  treatise  An  Appeal  to  Caesar  (1884). 
1  Progress  and  Poverty  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  191 2),  p.  558. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  767 

land— could  be  applied  for  the  public  benefit.  Libraries,  theatres,  univer- 
sities could  be  established  at  public  expense;  heat,  light,  and  motive  power 
could  be  offered  freely  to  all;  roads  would  be  lined  with  fruit  trees;  and 
scientific  investigations  could  be  supported.  "Government  would  change 
its  character,  and  would  become  the  administration  of  a  great  co-operative 
society."  5  Business,  he  argued,  would  and  should  run  to  further  concen- 
trations, for  to  resist  such  tendencies  would  mean  nothing  short  of 
throttling  steam  and  discharging  electricity  from  human  service.  Only 
such  types  of  business  enterprise  as  are  "in  their  nature  monopolies"  should 
be  assumed  by  the  state;  the  others  could  well  continue  to  develop  as  they 
had  already  evolved. 

Some  of  the  fallacies  of  George's  reasoning  were  immediately  exposed, 
and  today  economists  regard  his  theories,  save  that  of  the  "unearned  incre- 
ment," largely  as  unimportant;  but  wherever  English  was  spoken  his  name 
resounded.  George  lectured  frequently  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic, 
wrote  a  number  of  other  books  and  many  articles,  and  became  a  candidate, 
though  an  unsuccessful  one,  for  the  mayoralty  of  New  York  City.  For  a 
time,  the  "single  tax"  was  a  staple  of  political  discussion,  and  its  adherents 
cut  a  not  inconsiderable  figure  in  the  third-party  movements  of  the  last 
years  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Such  diverse  literary  men  as  Hamlin 
Garland,  Bernard  Shaw,  and  Tolstoi  were  moved  by  George's  eloquence. 
In  local  legislation  throughout  the  world,  his  views  had  some  small  effect, 
and  in  certain  quarters  both  his  name  and  his  opinions  are  still  alive.6 


As  broadly  disseminated  as  George's  ideas  were  those  of  Edward 
Bellamy  (1850-98),  author  of  the  most  popular  Utopian  romance  in  the 
English  language.  Looking  Backward,  2000-1887  (1888),  with  its  pictur- 
ing of  the  millennium  brought  about  by  state  monopoly,  spoke  not  only 
for  but  with  the  multitudes  who  dreamed  of  freedom  from  strikes,  hard 
work,  and  poverty.  Its  hero,  mesmerized  in  1887,  wakes  up  in  the  year 
2000  to  find  Boston  a  paradise  of  cleanliness,  material  prosperity,  and  such 
comfortable  gadgets  as  a  device  whereby  one  can  turn  a  knob  in  a  parlor 
and  hear  music  and  sermons.  The  labor  question  has  been  decided,  for  the 
United  States  government,  after  a  tremendous  concentration  of  wealth 
and  industry  in  the  hands  of  a  few  capitalists,  has  taken  over— without  any 
violence  at  all.  As  a  result  of  its  benign  direction,  the  people  retire  from 
work  at  the  age  of  forty-five,  there  is  no  money,  cooking  is  done  at  public 

5  Progress  and  Poverty,  p.  454. 

6  See,  for  example,  the  British  "Uthwatt  Report,"  presented  to  Parliament  in  1942, 
digested  in  Nathan  Straus,  The  Seven  Myths  of  Housing  (1944),  pp.  279-305.  George's 
influence  upon  the  Fabian  Society  of  England  was  profound.  The  Robert  Schalken- 
bach  Foundation,  established  in  New  York  in  1925,  has  the  purpose  of  keeping  his 
ideas  before  the  public.  The  Henry  George  School  of  Social  Science  was  chartered 
in  New  York  in  1937. 


768  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

kitchens,  everyone  is  well  educated,  and  the  entire  field  of  productive  and 
constructive  industry  is  divided  into  ten  well-functioning  departments  at 
the  head  of  which  is  the  President.  During  its  first  months  the  book  sold 
none  too  well,  but  thereafter  gained  momentum  as  Theosophists,  Na- 
tionalist Clubs,  and  other  organizations  stimulated  enthusiasm  and  made 
it  a  best  seller.  Translations,  including  the  Arabic,  eventually  scattered  it 
throughout  the  world,  and  it  is  still  in  print.  Bellamy  was  a  Massachusetts 
newspaper  editor  who  had  previously  written  three  novels  and  a  portion 
of  a  fourth.  The  incomplete  work  was  a  historical  romance  based  on 
Shays's  Rebellion,  a  revolt  of  distressed  farmers  shortly  after  the  Revolu- 
tion, and  is  often  adduced  as  an  example  of  the  author's  early  preoc- 
cupation with  social  problems.  But,  in  all  likelihood,  Looking  Backward 
was  at  first  intended  to  be  nothing  more  than  a  plausible  rendering  of  a 
romantic  pipe  dream,  like  the  treatment  of  hallucinations  and  kindred 
phenomena  which  had  provided  material  for  Bellamy's  earlier  novels  Dr. 
Heidenhoffs  Process  (1880)  or  Miss  Ludingtoifs  Sister  (1884).  At  any 
rate,  in  explaining  "How  I  Came  to  Write  Looking  Backward"  the 
romancer  asserted  that  he  had  had  "no  idea  of  attempting  a  serious  con- 
tribution to  the  movement  of  social  reform"  and  spoke  of  the  book  as  "a 
mere  literary  fantasy,  a  fairy  tale  of  social  felicity."  7  And  to  Howells  he 
confessed,  "I  have  never  been  in  any  sense  a  student  of  socialistic  litera- 
ture, or  have  known  more  of  the  various  socialist  schemes  than  any  news- 
paper reader  might."  s 

But  the  sensational  flurry  aroused  by  the  story  forced  Bellamy  to  don 
the  halo  of  social  prophet  and  assume  a  role  as  a  propagandist  for  the 
resulting  Nationalist  movement.  Howells,  Edward  Everett  Hale,  and  Julia 
Ward  Howe  were  among  the  authors  who  early  became  adherents.  In 
time,  the  Nationalist  program  was  partially  adopted  by  the  Populists,  most 
powerful  of  the  third  parties  of  late  nineteenth-century  America,  and  in 
the  election  of  1896  was  permanently  crippled  when  the  Democrats  and 
the  recalcitrant  forces  with  which  the  People's  Party  had  allied  itself  were 
defeated  by  the  Republicans.  Struggling  against  ill  health,  a  naturally 
retiring  disposition,  and  the  perversity  of  his  followers,  Bellamy  had  time 
to  write  only  one  more  book,  an  inferior  sequel  called  Equality  (1897), 
designed  to  fill  in  the  gaps  left  by  the  earlier  romance  and  to  provide  an 
adequate  statement  of  the  Nationalist  beliefs.  Its  success  was  relatively 
small.  Looking  Backward  not  only  gave  the  world  the  term  "nationalize" 
and  played  a  part  in  the  political  arena  of  its  day  but  did  more  than  any 

7  Quoted  from  The  Nationalist  for  May,  1889,  in  Arthur  E.  Morgan,  Edward 
Bellamy  (1944),  p.  224.  Cf.  the  same,  p.  225,  for  Bellamy's  later  account,  which  is 
contradictory. 

s  Letter  of  June  17,  1888,  MS  in  the  Houghton  Library,  Harvard.  Bellamy's  sources 
arc  discussed  by  Morgan,  Bellamy,  pp.  235  fT.;  and  Plagiarism  in  Utopia  (Yellow 
Springs,  O.,  1944);  and  by  Robert  L.  Shurter,  "The  Utopian  Novel  in  America: 
1 865- 1900,"  unpublished  dissertation,  Western  Reserve  University,  1936. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  769 

other  work  to  prove  that  literary  men  could  very  profitably  make  excur- 
sions into  the  realm  of  the  social  studies.  After  Uncle  Toin's  Cabin,  it  was 
the  first  American  novel  of  the  sort  to  be  translated  into  numerous  lan- 
guages, and  thus  marked  the  route  which  the  books  of  Jack  London  and 
Upton  Sinclair  were  to  follow.  It  gave  rise  to  a  whole  school  of  Utopias, 
but,  as  literature,  its  merit  lies  solely  in  simplicity  of  style  and  in  an  indis- 
putable genius  for  making  fantasy  seem  like  reality. 


The  augmented  interest  in  social  and  economic  problems  to  be  seen  in 
American  literature  from  the  time  of  Looking  Backward  throughout  the 
nineties  can  be  viewed,  usually  indirectly,  in  the  novels  of  several  sec- 
ondary fiction  writers  like  the  Norwegian-born  Hjalmar  Hjorth  Boyesen 
(1848-95)  or  Robert  Grant  (1852-1940),  but  the  requirements  of  space 
demand  that  we  pass  them  by.  On  a  lower  level  were  a  tribe  of  less-gifted 
imitators  of  Tolstoi,  Bellamy,  or  Howells,  and  beneath  them  a  larger 
group  of  authors  who  wrote  principally  for  the  Sunday  school  libraries 
or  the  reform  journals.  Small  beer,  however,  is  still  small  beer,  though  it 
may  foam  with  social  ferment.  A  few  generalizations,  nevertheless,  may 
be  in  order.  In  the  first  place,  one  notes  in  the  works  of  these  writers  an 
almost  invariable  acceptance  of  the  individualism  characteristic  of  Amer- 
ican society,  an  opposition  to  violence  as  well  as  regimentation,  and  a 
fundamental  belief  in  moral  law.  They  assumed  that  anything  resembling 
social  engineering  was  less  likely  to  appeal  to  readers  than  the  maxims 
inculcated  by  the  McGufTey  school  books  or  the  stories  of  Horatio  Alger. 
"Strive  and  succeed,"  "Any  poor  boy  can  be  President,"  "Opportunity  is 
open  to  everyone"— such  notions  were  much  more  efficacious  than  ad- 
vocacy of  class  warfare.  The  injustice  of  poverty  was  hard  to  reconcile 
with  traditional  optimism;  a  tramp  was  as  likely  as  not  to  be  merely  a  lazy 
vagabond.  Social  evils  were  treated  more  as  sins  than  as  symptoms.  Even 
the  muckraker  Ray  Stannard  Baker  has  confessed  that  when  he  wrote 
about  the  unemployed  in  Chicago  during  the  nineties  or  accompanied 
Coxey's  Army  on  its  doleful  march,  he  was  not  sorry  but  "angry  and  con- 
temptuous." "Why  didn't  they  get  out  and  hustle?  Why  didn't  they  quit 
Chicago?  There  was  still  plenty  of  room  on  the  frontier. ...  'In  the  sweat 
of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,'  said  the  stern  old  Presbyterian  Bible  on 
which  I  had  been  brought  up."  9 

One  notes,  too,  a  detestation  of  the  word  "socialism"  which  will  strike 
Europeans  especially  as  very  singular.  Before  the  Civil  War,  when  the 
doctrines  of  Owen  and  Fourier  were  being  broadcast  and  Brook  Farm 
changed  from  a  "private  experiment"  to  a  modified  Fourierite  Phalanx, 
the  word  was  by  no  means  in  bad  odor.  But  hostility  to  it  waxed  strong 
as  a  result  of  association  with  anarchism  or  other  varieties  of  "un-Ameri- 

9  American  Chronicle:  The  Autobiography  of  Ray  Stannard  Baker  (1945),  p.  2. 


77o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

can"  agitation  which  ran  their  course  among  certain  foreign-born  leaders 
of  strikes  or  advocates  of  an  overthrow  of  the  government.  Bellamy  was 
very  wise  in  selecting  the  term  "nationalism,"  and,  in  the  letter  to  Howells 
already  quoted,  explained  that  "socialist"  was  a  word  that  he  himself 
"never  could  well  stomach."  "In  the  first  place,"  he  continued,  "it  is  a 
foreign  word  in  itself  and  equally  foreign  in  all  its  suggestions.  It  smells 
to  the  average  American  of  petroleum,  suggests  the  red  flag  with  all 
manner  of  sexual  novelties  and  an  abusive  tone  about  God  and  religion." 
In  America,  said  Marion  Crawford,  "socialist"  means  "a  thief";  and  Harold 
Frederic  made  one  of  his  characters  refer  to  socialism  as  merely  "mon- 
strous imposture."  10  That  the  literary  men  were  not  alone  in  their  opposi- 
tion is  revealed  by  the  adjectives  used  by  lawyer  Joseph  H.  Choate  in  1894, 
when  he  argued,  successfully,  that  a  Federal  income  tax  was  unconstitu- 
tional. "The  act  of  Congress  which  we  are  impugning,"  he  informed  the 
Supreme  Bench,  "is  communistic  in  its  purposes  and  tendencies,  and  is 
defended  here  upon  principles  as  communistic,  socialistic— what  shall  I 
call  them— populistic  as  ever  have  been  addressed  to  any  political  assembly 
in  the  world."  1X  The  survival  of  the  phobia  in  a  later  day  is  well  illus- 
trated in  a  letter  dated  July  26,  1927,  and  written  by  the  famed  "liberal" 
William  Allen  White:  "Call  me  a  liar  if  you  will;  crazy  if  you  must;  coy, 
uncertain,  hard  to  please  if  you  have  to;  but,  my  dear  Hugh,  please  don't 
stick  that  dirty  phrase  'communist  or  socialist'  on  my  name.  I  value  my 
patriotism  as  I  value  nothing  else  in  this  world."  12 

Outside  the  ranks  of  labor  agitators  and  an  insignificant  third  party,  the 
principal  currency  of  the  word  at  the  end  of  the  century  probably  came 
in  connection  with  the  efforts  of  certain  clergymen  to  preach  a  social 
gospel.  In  1889,  a  number  of  them  established  the  Society  of  Christian 
Socialists.13  Though  the  name  was  revived  from  the  British  Christian  So- 
cialists, dating  back  to  the  time  of  the  Kingsleys,  the  founders  were  in- 
spired by  Bellamy.  Like  the  followers  of  George  or  the  Nationalists,  they, 
too,  propagandized  in  periodicals  and  gathered  recruits  for  a  while  but 
lost  out  when  the  election  of  1896  dragged  them  under  with  its  silver 
weight.  At  the  outset,  however,  their  cause  promised  well  enough  to  war- 
rant Albion  Tourgee  to  attempt  a  revival  of  his  reputation  as  a  propa- 
gandist in  fiction  by  writing  Murvale  Eastman:  Christian  Socialist  (1890). 
This  novel  plays  up  the  social  gospel  in  melodramatic  fashion  and  prob- 
ably is  the  staunchest  of  its  author's  stories,  but  it  still  cries  for  a  reader's 

10  Marzio's  Crucifix  (London  and  New  York,  1887),  p.  125;  Gloria  Mundi  (Chicago 
and  New  York,  1898),  p.  240.  Very  illuminating  is  Arthur  E.  Bestor,  "The  Evolution 
of  the  Socialist  Vocabulary,"  Jour.  Hist,  of  Ideas,  Vol.  9  (June,  1948),  pp.  259-302. 

11  U.  S.  Reports  (New  York  and  Albany,  1895),  Vol.  157,  p.  532. 

12  Selected  Letters  of  William  Allen  White,  1899-1943,  ed.  Walter  Johnson  ([1947]), 
p.  274. 

1  •  Charles  H.  Hopkins,  The  Rise  of  the  Social  Gospel  in  American  Protestantism, 
1865-1915  (New  Haven,  1940),  Chap.  X;  James  Dombrowski,  The  Early  Days  of 
Christian  Socialism  in  America  (1936). 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  771 

mercy,  and  its  success  was  little.14  Both  clergy  and  laity  liked  their  relig- 
ion and  their  social  welfare  mixed,  as  the  popularity  of  Charles  Sheldon's 
In  His  Steps  (1896)  proved  beyond  cavil,  but  they  also  liked  to  have  the 
mixture  without  the  sauce  of  "isms." 


The  word  "science,"  on  the  other  hand,  was  generally  approved. 
Howells,  as  we  have  seen,  actually  spoke  of  a  "scientific"  decorum  as  the 
reason  for  the  reluctance  of  his  contemporaries  to  admire  the  coarseness 
of  Fielding;  and  when  Mary  Baker  Eddy  added  to  Mormonism  a  second 
American  religion,  she  called  it  Christian  Science  and  its  book  of  doctrines 
Science  and  Health  (1875).  Yet  to  most  Americans  who  freely  and  exu- 
berantly babbled  of  the  wonders  effected,  or  to  be  effected,  by  science, 
the  word  connoted  either  the  piling  up  of  empirical  facts  or  the  applica- 
tion of  theories  in  agriculture  and  industry.  Thomas  Alva  Edison,  inventor 
of  the  incandescent  light  and  the  phonograph,  Alexander  Graham  Bell, 
with  his  telephone,  and  Luther  Burbank,  the  plant-breeder,  were  popu- 
larly considered  the  great  scientists  of  native  vintage.  The  few  American 
contributors  to  pure  science,  like  Josiah  Willard  Gibbs,  were  scarcely 
known.  In  the  colleges,  where  scientific  courses  ran  a  poor  second  to  those 
in  the  humanities  or  in  pedagogy,  the  study  of  scientific  theory  was  still 
somewhat  affected  by  the  "natural  philosophy"  inherited  from  times  past. 
Newspapers  often  reprinted  speeches  or  treatises  by  important  figures  in 
the  realm  of  science,  such  periodicals  as  Popular  Science  Monthly  (1872- 
95)  flourished,  and  the  high-class  literary  magazines  also  favored  the  sub- 
ject and  frequently  announced  their  devotion  on  their  mastheads.  Most 
literary  of  their  contents  in  this  category  were  likely  to  be  nature  essays, 
which  multiplied  almost  directly  with  the  rate  of  urbanization  of  readers. 
Thoreau's  unpublished  manuscripts  were  put  into  print,  and  his  reputation 
was  constantly  on  the  ascent.  Newer  nature  writers  appeared,  among  them 
John  Burroughs  ( 1837-192 1),  a  disciple  of  Emerson  and  Whitman,  and 
John  Muir  (1838- 19 14),  student  of  glaciers  and  forests  of  the  Far  West, 
and  likewise  an  Emersonian.  The  mixture  of  moral  idealism  and  interesting 
observation  which  lent  attraction  to  Burroughs's  multitude  of  essays 
eventually  made  him  the  best-known  exponent  of  the  genre,  and  his  fame 
continued  in  the  present  century.  His  many  volumes,  like  Birds  and  Poets 
(1877)  or  Locusts  and  Wild  Honey  (1879),  are  rarely  read  any  more, 
and  critics  now  recall  him  chiefly  as  one  of  the  earlier  champions  of  Whit- 

14  In  the  story,  when  the  League  of  Christian  Socialists  is  formed  in  a  fashionable 
church,  Tourgee  goes  on  to  say:  "Who  had  ever  before  heard  of  a  church  allying 
itself  with  Socialism?  It  was  only  another  name  for  vice,  immorality,  murder,  anarchy 
and  all  sorts  of  crime,  some  said..."  (p.  309).  Nevertheless,  later  on,  the  author 
attempts  to  give  the  word  better  standing  by  explaining:  "in  its  broad  sense," 
socialism  is  "simply  the  practical  application  of  sociology,  and  in  its  limited  sense 
the  very  antipode  of  Anarchism"  (p.  454). 


772  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

man.  Few  nineteenth-century  volumes  on  that  poet  are  more  rewarding 
than  his  Whitman:  A  Study  (1896).  But  Burroughs's  exposition  of  a 
democratic  philosophy  in  literature,  in  such  essays  as  comprise  Literary 
V allies  (1902),  has  been  unjustly  neglected,  and  he  has  a  place  of  impor- 
tance in  the  history  of  a  native  critical  theory.  The  humanism,  the  ideal- 
ism, exhibited  by  both  Burroughs  and  Muir  are  fairly  representative  of 
the  nature  writers  with  literary  propensities  who  were  at  work  during 
the  period. 

The  later  decades  of  the  century  are  especially  noted  for  the  conflict 
between  science  and  religion  precipitated  by  the  doctrines  of  the  evolu- 
tionists, and  in  the  United  States  greater  publicity  was  given  to  their  views 
than  anywhere  else  in  the  world.  The  Origin  of  Species  (1859)  was  im- 
mediately reprinted  and  widely  reviewed,  though  not  until  after  the  Civil 
War  did  it  arouse  extensive  discussion;  and,  as  in  Europe,  fuel  was  heaped 
on  the  fire  with  the  advent  in  1871  of  The  Descent  of  Man.  Despite  the 
opposition  of  Louis  Agassiz,  distinguished  biologist  of  Harvard,  in  the 
early  seventies  the  transmutation  of  species  and  natural  selection— Darwin's 
chief  contributions— "dominated  the  outlook  of  American  naturalists."  15 
Among  literary  men  as  a  class,  however,  there  was  no  such  quick  accept- 
ance. Darwin's  name  is  sometimes  mentioned  by  them  during  and  imme- 
diately after  the  war,  but  in  general  they  seem  to  have  been  later  than 
both  the  biologists  and  the  theologians  in  being  affected.  Moreover,  like 
laymen  all  over  the  world,  they  came  into  such  knowledge  of  evolution 
as  they  acquired  by  reading  the  popularizers  or  opponents  of  Darwin  and 
by  perusing  the  works  of  Herbert  Spencer.16  To  be  sure,  Darwin  and 
Huxley  and  Haeckel  were  read,  but  no  evolutionists  received  a  hearing 
comparable  with  that  of  Spencer. 

From  the  sixties  to  1904,  Spencer's  books  sold  368,755  volumes  in  au- 
thorized editions  alone,  and  no  man  can  guess  how  many  more  were 
circulated  by  American  pirates.  To  many  throughout  the  nation,  as  also 
in  Europe,  his  phrase  "the  survival  of  the  fittest"  came  to  be  the  very 
essence  of  what  they  understood  of  the  "development  hypothesis."  It 
was  a  very  happy  shibboleth,  a  veritable  sanction  from  the  hallowed  halls 
of  learning  of  the  idea  of  laissez-faire.  Andrew  Carnegie  gave  it  a  warm 
hand.  Another  reason  for  the  popularity  of  Spencer's  "Synthetic  Philos- 
ophy" was  his  doctrine  of  the  Unknowable.  For  most  people,  the  hottest 
topic  presented  by  evolution  was  the  possibility  of  reconciling  science 
and  religion,  and  Spencer's  Unknowable  was  deemed  to  give  assurance 
"for  all  future  ages  that  whatever  science  might  learn  about  the  world, 

15  Richard  Hofstadter,  Social  Darwinism  in  American  Thought,  1860-191$   (1944), 

"■  Ellen  Glasgow  is  an  example  of  the  writers  directly  influenced  by  Darwin.  See 
her  Preface  to  The  Voice  of  the  People  (1900),  Virginia  Edition  (1938),  Vol.  10, 
p.  xv.  John  Mills  Turner,  Jr.,  has  considered  "The  Response  of  Major  American 
Writers  to  Darwinism  1859-1910,"  in  an  unpublished  Harvard  dissertation,  1944. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  773 

the  true  sphere  of  religion,  worship  of  the  Unknowable,  is  by  its  very 
nature  inviolable."  1T  Moreover,  Spencer  attempted  a  broad  application  of 
biological  evolution  to  human  society,  heartily  endorsed  individualism, 
and  was  more  of  a  "natural  philosopher"  than  a  technician.  He  also  had 
the  good  luck  to  find  several  American  disciples  with  a  knack  for  popu- 
larizing the  abstruse.  In  literary  circles,  the  chief  of  these  was  John  Fiske 
(1842- 1 901).  As  an  undergraduate  at  Harvard  in  the  early  sixties,  Fiske 
was  threatened  with  expulsion  for  his  scientific  views,  but  by  1869  there 
had  been  such  changes  in  Cambridge  that  the  new  president,  Eliot  the 
chemist,  invited  him  to  return  to  deliver  a  course  of  lectures  explaining 
Comte  and  Spencer.  Within  a  few  years,  Fiske  was  recognized  both  in 
England  and  America  as  a  masterly  expounder  of  the  Spencerian  system. 
In  eloquent  lectures,  in  essays  for  the  journals,  and  in  books,  he  explained 
away  difficulties,  and  his  Outlines  of  Cosmic  Philosophy  (1874)  ranked 
high  as  a  demonstration  of  how  a  theistic  religion  could  be  combined 
with  the  new  doctrines.  Later,  after  Huxley  suggested  to  him  that  the 
theory  of  evolution  needed  to  be  worked  out  in  the  field  of  history, 
Fiske  turned  to  that  subject  and  became  the  most  popular  lecturer  on 
American  history  of  his  era.  In  1884,  in  a  poll  to  select  living  American 
immortals,  he  captured  sixty-two  votes  while  Moses  Coit  Tyler  received 
forty-five  and  Francis  Parkman  only  thirty-four.  Of  all  the  disciples  of 
Spencer,  in  literary  circles  he  was  the  prince.  As  a  result  of  the  zeal  of 
his  adherents  and  of  his  own  persuasive  works,  Herbert  Spencer  was 
everywhere  in  evidence.  Scribner's  Monthly  in  April,  1879,  published  an 
illustrative  bit  of  light  verse  on  "A  Blue-Stocking": 

She  writes  to-day  for  magazines, 
Essays,  and  verse,  and  stories; 
And  in  all  kinds  of  abstruse  themes, 
She  positively  glories! 

Her  mind  of  long  forgotten  lore, 
Is  an  unique  condenser; 
She  knows  by  heart  John  Stuart  Mill, 
And  likewise  Herbert  Spencer! 

With  Spencer  spear-heading,  the  impact  of  evolution  was  felt  more 
keenly  in  certain  quarters  as  the  century  progressed,  and  discussion  grew 
wider.  The  word,  at  least,  was  omnipresent.  In  1877  a  periodical  named 
Evolution  was  founded  in  New  York— a  weekly  review  of  politics,  re- 
ligion, science,  literature,  and  art.  In  Chicago,  later,  there  existed  an 
"Evolution  Club."  The  stage,  too,  was  affected,  for  in  1889  a  Bostonian 
copyrighted  Evolution,  a  burlesque  in  two  acts,  with  music;  and  the  next 
year  a  man  from  St.  Louis  followed  suit  with  The  Evolution  of  Negro 

1 7  Hofstadter,  Social  Darwinism,  p.  24. 


774  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Minstrelsy,  a  kind  of  "theatric  history"  of  the  Negro  race.  P.  T.  Barnum 
had  already  cashed  in  by  exhibiting  the  "missing  link"  at  his  circus.  The 
poets,  too,  paid  their  respects.  Aldrich  and  Father  Tabb  were  not  the  only 
ones  who  used  "Evolution"  as  a  title;  H.  H.  Boyesen  in  1878  contributed 
a  whole  series  of  sonnets  on  the  subject  to  The  Atlantic.  And  Ella  Wheeler 
Wilcox  rhymed  her  idea  of  the  whole  business  in  a  most  optimistic  gem: 

Forth  from  little  motes  in  Chaos 
We  have  come  to  what  we  are, 
And  no  evil  force  can  stay  us, 
We  shall  mount  from  star  to  star. 

Perhaps  the  fullest  poetical  treatment  was  given  in  Change:  The 
Whisper  of  the  Sphinx  (1879),  by  William  Leighton,  a  glass  manufacturer 
of  Wheeling.18 

Like  the  public  at  large,  the  authors  reacted  to  evolution  in  various 
fashions.  Some  betray  no  sign  of  ever  having  heard  of  it,  many  opposed 
or  made  fun  of  it,  a  number  borrowed  some  of  its  terminology  or  con- 
cepts, and  fewer  were  profoundly  influenced.  Of  those  who  eagerly 
ornamented  their  wordhoards  with  evolutionary  terminology,  few  were 
more  enthusiastic  than  the  Emersonians  who  long  before  1859  were  pre- 
pared in  advance  by  the  doctrine  of  melioristic  change  posited  by  the 
master.  Whitman  is  a  very  good  example.  In  1855,  in  "Song  of  Myself," 
he  had  toyed  with  evolutionary  concepts,  and  when  the  word  was  on 
everyone's  lips  he  introduced  it  into  both  his  prose  and  verse.  The 
"burden"  of  Leaves  of  Grass,  he  took  pleasure  in  saying,  is  evolution,  an 
idea  repeated  frequently  in  his  later  years,  for  instance,  in  "L.  of  G's. 
Purport"  (1891): 

Haughty  this  song,  its  words  and  scope 

To  span  vast  realms  of  space  and  time, 

Evolution — the  cumulative— growths  and  generations. 

Whitman's  attitude  is  perhaps  most  adequately  revealed  in  his  earlier 
comments  on  the  death  of  Carlyle,  included  in  Specimen  Days.  The 
tenets  of  the  evolutionists,  he  remarks,  are  "unspeakably  precious"  to 
biology,  "and  henceforth  indispensable  to  a  right  aim  and  estimate  in 
study,"  but  "they  neither  comprise  or  explain  everything."  Science  and 
philosophy  both,  he  contended,  were  chilling  to  poetic  ardor,  and  failed 
"to  satisfy  the  deepest  emotions  of  the  soul."  19  In  literary  circles  this 
attitude  was  fairly  common. 

18  For  more  examples,  see  Frederick  W.  Conner,  Cosmic  Optimism:  A  Study  of 
the  interpretation  of  Evolution  by  A?nerican  Poets  from  Emerson  to  Robinson 
(Gainesville,  Fla.,  1949). 

18  Complete  Prose  Works  (Boston,  1907),  pp.  169-170.  See  Alice  L.  Cooke,  "Whit- 
man's Indebtedness  to  the  Scientific  Thought  of  His  Day,"  Univ.  of  Texas  Stud,  in 
Eng.,  Vol.  14  (1934),  pp.  89-115. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS 


775 


The  reaction  of  Lanier  was  essentially  similar,  although  evolution 
brought  on  within  him  a  battle  with  Christianity  such  as  Whitman's  creed- 
less  mysticism  never  witnessed.  Among  the  authors  who  lost  their  faith 
at  the  time  of  the  evolutionary  controversy  are  to  be  numbered  both 
Howells  and  Mark  Twain,  but  it  is  impossible  to  lay  responsibility  directly 
at  the  door  of  the  scientists.20  Edward  Eggleston  confessed  to  his  brother 
that  he  had  "not  a  shred  or  a  raveling  of  belief  in  the  supernatural"  left 
from  his  days  as  a  Methodist  parson  and  summed  up  the  case  for  similar 
minds  when  he  referred  to  Darwin  as  follows:  uNo  matter  what  the 
subject  under  consideration,  we  later  nineteenth-century  people  are 
pretty  sure  to  be  brought  face  to  face  with  the  intellect  that  has  dominated 
our  age,  modified  our  modes  of  thinking,  and  become  the  main  source 
of  all  our  metaphysical  discomforts."  21  In  assuming  that  many  other  au- 
thors responded  to  evolution  precisely  as  did  Eggleston,  one  would  prob- 
ably violate  the  facts  of  history,  for  the  artistic  temperament  is  exceed- 
ingly variable.  No  Americans  in  the  eighties  were  more  frank  in  acknowl- 
edging obligations  to  Herbert  Spencer  than  Lafcadio  Hearn  and  Hamlin 
Garland;  yet  their  works  have  little  in  common,  and  neither  appears  to 
have  been  seared  by  a  hot  iron,  as  were  Jack  London  or  Theodore  Dreiser, 
who,  likewise,  were  profoundly  affected  by  the  Synthetic  Philosophy. 

Furthermore,  the  differences  between  the  methods  and  purposes  of 
science  and  those  of  belles-lettres  are  so  radically  different  that,  for  the 
most  part,  the  influence  of  science  upon  literature  is  likely  to  be  indirect. 
For  example,  one  might  argue  that  the  evolutionists  were  surely  the  in- 
spires of  college  courses  on  "The  Development  of  the  English  Novel," 
or  similar  topics  in  favor  at  the  beginning  of  the  present  century,  were  it 
not  for  the  fact  that  they  owed  a  greater  debt  to  the  theories  of  Brune- 
tiere,  a  literary  critic.  Similarly,  the  gradual  recognition  of  the  force  of 
environment  upon  character  to  be  observed  in  the  thinking  of  certain 
nineteenth-century  authors  may  often  be  traced  more  directly  to  the  doc- 
trines of  Taine  than  to  those  of  any  scientist.  But,  no  matter  how  difficult 
or  how  dubious  the  attribution  to  science  of  the  philosophical  opinions 
held  by  individual  authors,  it  is  clear  that  science  contributed  materials 
for  literature.  Frank  Norris,  in  the  first  of  his  several  stories  concerned 
with  the  brute  beneath  the  veneer  of  civilized  man,  a  tale  called  "Lauth," 
reversed  the  order  of  evolutionary  stages  to  have  the  hero  degenerate  from 
a  cultivated  scholar  to  a  shapeless  mass  that  lived  only  as  "the  protozoa,  the 
jellyfish,  and  those  strange  lowest  forms  of  existence  wherein  the  line 

20  Hyatt  H.  Waggoner  has  dealt  with  "Science  in  the  Thought  of  Mark  Twain," 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.   8    (Jan.    1937),  pp.   357-370.   The   same   author's   dissertation,   on 

Science  and  Modern  American  Poetry,"  Ohio  State  University,  1942,  has  appeared 
in  the  form  of  articles  and  treats  the  period  1800- 193  5. 

21  The  Faith  Doctor  (1891),  p.  16.  See  also  Charles  Hirschfeld,  "Edward  Eggleston: 
Pioneer  in  Social  History,"  Historiography  and  Urbanization,  ed.  Eric  F.  Goldman 
(Baltimore,  1941),  pp.  189-210. 


776  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

between  vegetable  and  animal  cannot  be  drawn."  22  xAnd  even  the  humor- 
ist Robert  H.  New  ell  abandoned  his  motley  as  Orpheus  C.  Kerr  to  write 
There  Was  Once  a  Man  (1884),  a  serious  though  inept  novel  portraying 
a  scientist  who  searches  in  Borneo  for  the  missing  link.23  It  perhaps  need 
not  be  said  that  when  literature  employs  science  or  scientists  as  subject 
matter,  the  results  are  usually  pseudo-scientific. 


If  one  were  to  select  the  belles-lettrist  of  the  later  nineteenth  cen- 
turv  whose  knowledge  of  science  topped  that  of  his  peers,  the  laurels 
would  probably  adorn  the  head  of  Silas  Weir  Mitchell  (1829-1914),  an 
eminent  writer  on  medical  subjects  as  well  as  one  of  the  more  readable 
secondary  novelists.  Son  of  a  professor  in  Jefferson  Medical  College,  he 
made  Philadelphia  his  home  throughout  his  life  and  honored  his  city  not 
only  by  using  it  as  the  setting  for  fiction  but  by  becoming  one  of  its  lead- 
ing citizens,  a  neurologist  of  international  fame.  Much  of  his  research  has 
been  outmoded,  but  his  pioneer  methods  of  treating  functional  nervous 
disorders  are  still  respected  by  specialists  who  refer  admiringly  to  "Weir 
Mitchell's  Rest  Cure."  When  the  history  of  psychiatry  is  eventually  writ- 
ten, the  modernity  of  his  therapeutics  in  that  field  will  no  doubt  occasion 
surprise.  In  the  annals  of  American  literature  he  marks  the  entrance  of 
clinical  psychology  into  fiction.  As  one  would  anticipate,  many  of  Mit- 
chell's characters  are  doctors,  and  again  and  again  he  draws  attention  to 
the  psychiatric  value  of  confession.  The  elements  of  laboratory  science 
are,  however,  never  aggressively  evident  in  his  fiction.  Thev  loom  larger 
in  two  volumes  which  are  more  like  reports  of  interesting  conversations 
than  narratives,  Characteristics  (1892)  and  a  sequel,  Dr.  North  and  His 
Friends  ( 1900).  In  these  two  books  all  sorts  of  brilliantly  developed  topics 
engage  the  interest  of  the  characters,  among  them  "Notes  of  a  Case  of 
Too  Good  a  Memory,"  dreams,  dual  personality,  "hysterical  palsy,"  and 
the  grounds  for  the  desire  to  throw  oneself  from  a  height,  delire  des 
hauteurs.  Mitchell  was  an  ardent  proponent  of  what  is  now  called  "psy- 
chosomatic medicine,"  and  argued  through  his  mouthpiece  Dr.  North  that 
a  physician  who  does  not  "intellectually  respect  the  complex  riddles  of 
soul,  mind,  and  body,  and  their  interdependence"  is  unfit  for  a  high  seat 
in  the  temple  of  the  god  of  healing.24 

22  Collected  Writings  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1928),  Vol.  10,  p.  145.  "Lauth"  was 
written  while  Norris  was  a  student  in  Berkeley. 

;  Newell  shows  a  passing  familiarity  with  Darwin  and  had  read  Wallace  and 
Haeckel.  When  the  scientist  in  the  story  discovers  that  his  supposed  "missing  link1' 
is  merely  the  degenerate  offspring  of  an  Irishman,  he  rejoices  and  inveighs  against 
"scientific  materialism"  on  the  ground  that  its  unproved  assumptions  are  based  on 
no  more  real  evidence  than  "the  system  of  spiritual  intuition  that  it  chiefly  combats" 
(pp.  438-430). 

z*  Dr.  North  and  His  Friends,  Author's  Edition  (1903),  p.  456.  In  the  novel 
Constance   Trescot    (1905),   he  speaks  warmly   of  the   "physician's   vast   explanatory 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  777 

Mitchell's  debut  as  a  fiction  writer  was  made  in  1866,  with  a  short  story 
published  in  The  Atlantic,  "The  Case  of  George  Dedlow,"  an  autobiog- 
raphy of  an  army  surgeon  who  has  lost  both  arms  and  both  legs  in  the 
Civil  War.  Neurological  and  medical  details  are  described  with  clinical 
vividness,  as  are  also  the  "psychical  changes"  brought  about  by  Dedlow's 
misfortune.  But,  with  the  same  veracious  air,  the  yarn  turns  into  a  gro- 
tesque satire  on  spiritism  when  the  spirits  at  a  seance  are  made  to  equip 
the  officer  with  invisible  legs  so  that  he  can  hobble  about  the  room.  An- 
other story  of  merit  is  "The  Autobiography  of  a  Quack"  (1867),  later 
expanded,  which  reminds  one  of  Browning's  "Mr.  Sludge,  'The  Medium'  " 
in  its  genial  frankness.  These  and  other  short  stories  represent  an  advance 
in  the  direction  of  realistic  detail  beyond  the  pseudo-scientific  tales  by 
Poe  or  Fitz- James  O'Brien;  they  teem  with  bountiful  invention  as  well  as 
medical  information.  The  first  of  Mitchell's  long  novels,  In  War  Time 
(1885),  in  addition,  is  blessed  with  wit,  dramatic  power,  and  a  fondness 
for  psychological  portraiture  such  as  may  be  seen  in  much  of  his  later 
work.  The  story  never  quite  comes  to  life,  however,  and  its  final  melo- 
drama fails  to  be  convincing.  In  the  effort  to  emulate  the  realists,  Mit- 
chell succeeded  better  in  Roland  Blake  (1886)  and,  more  important,  in 
Constance  Trescot  (1905).  The  latter  is  a  psychological  study  of  a  woman 
who  warps  her  mentality  by  sacrificing  all  else  to  revenge  herself  upon 
the  murderer  of  her  husband.  Compared  with  most  recent  novels  of 
character,  it  has  much  more  plot.  Its  psychological  insights  often  com- 
mand admiration,  but  the  action  moves  forward  in  jerks,  and,  as  in  Mit- 
chell's earlier  novels,  there  is  a  crudeness  in  suggesting  the  illusion  of  the 
passage  of  time.  The  motivation,  too,  is  not  without  flaw,  but  hardly  more 
so  than  in  most  of  the  stories  of  Frank  Norris.  As  drama,  it  is  excellent. 

Respected  as  they  were,  such  works  were  much  less  popular  with  read- 
ers than  Mitchell's  endeavors  in  the  field  of  historical  romance.  In  the 
nineties,  like  almost  everyone  else,  he  felt  the  ineluctable  lures  of  the  fic- 
tion of  history  and  responded  with  two  of  the  most  entertaining  romances 
of  the  times.  Hugh  Wynne  (1896)  is  one  of  the  best-known  stories  deal- 
ing with  the  Revolutionary  War,  crammed  full  of  action  and  dripping 
with  the  local  color  of  old  Philadelphia.  Andre,  Washington,  Franklin, 
and  other  worthies  step  in  and  out  of  its  pages,  and  the  historical  events 
are  touched  by  a  hand  steadied  by  expert  knowledge.  But  better  still  is 
the  sparkling  yarn  with  a  jolly  thief  as  hero,  The  Adventures  of  Frangois: 
foundling,  Thief,  juggler,  and  Fencing-Master  during  the  French  Revo- 
lution (1898).  The  old  paraphernalia  are  all  there:  a  letter  is  found  in  a 
wallet,  swords  flash  in  heroic  action  at  the  top  of  a  flight  of  stairs,  the 

knowledge  of  the  lives  of  men  and  women,  which  accepts  heredity,  education,  and 
environment  as  matters  not  to  be  left  out  of  the  consideration  of  disease  or  of  the 
motives  of  men's  actions"  (p.  318).  He  also  acknowledges  the  "inexplicable  quality 
of  sex"  (p.  96) . 


778  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

rogue  has  the  heart  of  a  patrician,  there  is  even  a  fearful  journey  through 
the  catacombs  underlying  Paris.  The  book  has  all  the  excitement  of 
Dumas.  Mitchell  chose  it  as  his  favorite  among  all  his  tales.  Few,  if  any, 
of  the  historical  romances  of  the  nineties  equal  it  in  well-groomed  sus- 
pense. 

But  one  does  not  have  to  read  much  of  the  author  to  realize  that,  with 
all  his  neurological  and  psychiatric  science,  the  doctor's  fiction  was  shaped 
principally  by  the  forces  of  literary  tradition  and  moral  idealism.  Mitchell 
was  no  more  content  with  the  mere  "laboratory  brain"  than  Henry  James. 
To  him,  character  was  more  despotic  than  environment  in  all  save  the 
most  feeble  intellects,  and  religion  as  vital  as  sex  or  fear.  The  best-trained 
scientist  in  American  literature  of  the  late  nineteenth  century  was  far 
different  from  Zola,  even  though  he  had  studied  under  Claude  Bernard, 
the  very  physiologist  from  whom  the  French  champion  of  naturalism  de- 
rived his  knowledge  of  the  "experimental"  method. 


The  response  to  the  challenge  of  science  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  cen- 
tury was  more  hearty  among  writers  of  history  than  among  poets  and 
novelists.  Though  it  had  adherents  earlier,25  "scientific"  history  was 
everywhere  talked  about,  and  annalists,  ever  on  the  alert  for  syntheses, 
soon  found  the  new  term  "evolution"  a  most  captivating  substitute  for 
the  older  "development."  John  Fiske  with  his  popular  lectures  and  books 
on  the  American  past  was  not  the  only  historian  to  realize  that  the  theo- 
ries of  Darwin  and  Spencer  suggested  patterns  as  useful  in  marshalling 
historical  facts  as  Positivism,  Utilitarianism,  or  theistic  teleology.  But 
more  important  than  evolution  in  shaping  the  scientific  trend  of  historio- 
graphy was  the  rise  of  history  writing  to  the  status  of  a  profession,  with 
consequent  emphasis  on  what  we  like  to  call  scholarship.  The  new  metho- 
dology by  no  means  put  an  end  to  broad  surveys  and  many-volumed  trea- 
tises but  signalled  the  birth  of  the  era  of  specialization.  Its  chief  media 
were  monographs  and  periodicals  more  scholarly  than  the  old  journals 
of  the  local  historical  societies.  As  previously,  models  for  the  new  school 
were  sought  in  Europe,  particularly  in  Germany,  whither  more  students 
than  ever  before  repaired  to  study.  In  the  last  two  decades  of  the  century 
competent  direction  for  research  was  to  be  found  in  several  American  insti- 
tutions, notably  Johns  Hopkins,  where  Herbert  Baxter  Adams  (i  850-1 901) 
did  much  to  establish  the  profession,  or  Pennsylvania,  where  John  Bach 
McMaster  ( 1852-1932)  was  among  the  earliest  to  write  what  we  now 
speak  of  as  "social  history."  The  founding  in  1884  of  the  American  His- 
torical Association  gave  the  seminar-directors  from  the  several  graduate 
schools  an  official  opportunity  to  spread  their  methodology  beyond  the 

20  See,    for    example,    Donald    E.    Emerson,    "Hildreth,    Draper,    and    'Scientific 
History,' "  Historiography  and  Urbanization,  pp.  139-170. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  779 

confines  of  local  ivy  and  departmental  hen  coops.  The  new  scholarship 
invigorated  the  subject  as  an  intellectual  discipline,  enlarged  its  scope 
in  the  direction  of  allied  social  studies,  stimulated  the  appetite  for  accu- 
racy, but  tossed  Clio  off  the  delightful  hill  where  the  muses  have  their 
haunts.  The  massive  histories  of  the  United  States  written  by  McMaster 
or  by  James  Ford  Rhodes  (1848-1927)  bear  little  affiliation  with  literature 
as  an  art,  and  none  of  the  products  of  Wissenschaft  had  an  effect  upon 
the  laity  comparable  with  that  exerted  by  the  works  of  the  Naval  officer 
Alfred  Thayer  Mahan  (1840- 19 14).  Beginning  with  The  Influence  of  Sea 
Power  upon  History,  1660-1783  (1890),  Mahan  wrote  a  number  of  trea- 
tises which  applied  the  science  of  naval  strategy  to  history,  with  such 
impressive  conclusions  that  the  imperialists  of  the  world  straightway  made 
them  the  basis  for  the  doctrine  of  self-protection  through  acquisition.  In 
Great  Britain,  Germany,  and  Japan,  his  opinions  were  more  influential 
than  those  of  any  other  American  historian  who  has  ever  lived.  In  an  age 
when  airpower  has  displaced  navies  as  the  dominant  factor  in  military 
activities,  Mahan's  arguments  for  the  establishment  of  bases  far  removed 
from  the  homeland  have  even  more  cogency  than  ever,  but  it  is  the  fashion 
to  disparage  his  ideas  as  repugnant  to  the  hopes  and  dreams  of  "liberal" 
intelligence. 


Dismaying  as  it  may  seem  to  the  neophyte,  the  accuracy  of  the  new 
school  of  professional  historians  has  never  ceased  to  provoke  their  suc- 
cessors to  displace  older  monuments  of  scholarship  with  newer  ones  of 
even  greater  accuracy.  "Every  age,"  said  the  wise  Emerson,  "must  write 
its  own  books."  Of  all  the  historians  who  wrote  during  the  later  nine- 
teenth century,  only  two  are  now  claimed  by  literature  and  still  re- 
spected in  the  realm  of  scholarship,  namely,  Francis  Parkman  (1823-93) 
and  Henry  Brooks  Adams  (1838- 19 18),  both  men  of  wealth,  good  educa- 
tion, and  old  Massachusetts  lineage. 

At  the  end  of  the  century  Parkman  was  belatedly  honored  as  the  chief 
of  American  historians,  and  the  praise  of  his  work  in  our  own  times  is 
still  lavish.  His  monumental  study  of  the  French  in  North  America  has  not 
been  displaced,  and  the  discovery  of  documentary  evidence  unknown  to 
him  has  as  yet  not  seriously  damaged  the  general  validity  of  his  contribu- 
tions. Furthermore,  the  shifting  emphases  of  subsequent  schools  of  his- 
torians have  left  intact  his  attempt  to  portray  his  subject  from  the  point 
of  view  of  the  very  French,  British,  and  Indians  who  participated  in  the 
struggles  which  he  chronicled.  Parkman  was  little  affected  by  the  cur- 
rents of  "scientific"  history  or  by  the  advent  of  the  new  scholarship.  In 
nature  a  kind  of  Polybius,  long  before  the  Civil  War  he  demonstrated  a 
most  unusual  respect  for  primary  sources,  and  he  rarely  left  his  readers  in 
doubt  as  to  the  documents  upon  which  he  based  his  conclusions.  He 


78o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

bought  manuscripts,  caused  many  documents  to  be  printed,  expended 
large  sums  in  having  others  transcribed  from  archives  in  Europe  as  well 
as  North  America,  and  revised  his  books  as  new  material  came  to  light.26 
Furthermore,  from  1841,  when  he  first  settled  upon  the  subject  of  his 
magnum  opus,  until  his  last  days,  he  visited  whenever  possible  the  scenes 
of  the  events  that  he  narrated.  To  understand  the  qualities  of  the  Ameri- 
can Indians,  he  not  only  became  an  expert  woodsman  and  hunter  but 
travelled  to  their  haunts  in  Maine  and  Canada  and  even  ate  boiled  dog  in 
the  tepees  of  Sioux  buffalo-hunters.  Important,  too,  in  preparation  for  his 
work  was  training  in  the  law,  which  equipped  him  with  the  techniques 
of  distinguishing  between  evidence  and  hearsay. 

Parkman's  father,  a  Unitarian  clergyman  who  had  inherited  wealth, 
sent  him  to  Harvard  College  and  to  the  law  school  in  Cambridge,  but  after 
his  freshman  year  he  had  "Injuns  on  the  brain"  and  was  more  interested  in 
plans  for  writing  a  history  of  the  "old  French  War"  than  in  any  scho- 
lastic pursuits.  He  was  elected  to  Phi  Beta  Kappa  nevertheless.  During 
his  senior  year,  when  his  first  serious  illness  required  him  to  take  a  vaca- 
tion in  Europe,  he  lived  for  a  while  in  an  Italian  monastery  in  order  to 
learn  something  that  might  enable  him  to  understand  better  the  role  of 
Catholicism  in  the  settlement  of  Canada.  A  taste  for  literature  came  natu- 
rally in  such  a  family  as  his,  and  as  a  boy  he  showed  the  fondness  for 
Scott,  Cooper,  and  Byron  characteristic  of  the  times.  In  1845  he  contri- 
buted verse  and  sketches  about  Indians  and  frontiersmen  to  The  Knicker- 
bocker Magazine.  The  next  year,  he  set  our  from  St.  Louis,  gateway  to 
the  West,  for  the  Wyoming  frontier  and  lived  for  a  few  weeks  with  a 
band  of  Indians  who  taught  him  that  a  savage  is  rarely  noble.  The  hard- 
ships of  this  adventure  were  followed  by  a  nervous  breakdown  which 
exhibited  alarming  results  not  only  in  the  impairment  of  his  eyesight  but, 
for  a  time,  in  an  almost  complete  inability  to  concentrate  his  mind  on 
anything  at  all.  An  eminent  specialist  whom  he  later  consulted  in  Paris 
informed  him  that  he  might  go  insane.  For  years,  he  could  write  only 
with  his  eyes  closed  and  then  merely  for  brief  intervals— six  lines  a  day 
was  sometimes  his  maximum  stint— and  his  information  had  to  be  acquired 
by  having  others  read  to  him. 

His  first  book  was  dictated  to  a  cousin,  The  California  and  Oregon 
Trail  ( 1849),  a  narrative  of  his  Western  experiences.  The  excitement  and 
the  veracity  of  this  account,  rendered  in  a  swift-moving,  limpid  style, 
have  made  of  it  one  of  the  classics  of  American  travel  literature.  Its 
popularity  has  surpassed  that  of  anything  else  that  he  wrote.  Although 
he  was  constantly  collecting  material  for  his  major  enterprise,  Parkman 
had  his  copyists  prepare  numerous  documents  for  a  study  of  the  Indian 
uprising  of  the  seventeen-sixties  led  in  the  Middle  West  by  Pontiac,  and 

26  Sec,  for  example,  H.  H.  Peckham,  "The  Sources  and  Revisions  of  Parkman's 
'Pontiac,'"  Papers  Bib.  Soc.  of  America,  Vol.  17  (Oct.-Dec,  1943),  pp.  293-307. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  781 

painfully  and  slowly  finished  the  manuscript  of  his  second  book,  History 
of  the  Conspiracy  of  Fontiac  and  the  War  of  the  North  American  Tribes 
(185 1 ).  Despite  the  difficulties  under  which  it  was  composed,  this  nar- 
rative has  been  the  most  frequently  reprinted  of  all  his  histories.  Parkman 
himself  objected  to  the  turgidity  and  over-elaboration  of  its  descriptions, 
and,  recently,  the  assumption  that  Pontiac  was  the  head  of  a  general  move- 
ment by  the  Indians  to  drive  out  the  British  has  been  discredited,  but  the 
book  is  good  reading  nevertheless.  In  relationship  to  Parkman's  big  enter- 
prise it  stands  as  a  kind  of  epilogue.  The  severe  ailments  which  beset  him 
soon  made  further  composition  of  history  absolutely  impossible,  and  in 
order  to  occupy  himself,  he  turned  to  the  writing  of  a  novel,  V assail 
Morton  (1856)— of  no  consequence  save  as  autobiography— and  took  up 
horticulture.  The  persistency  and  thoroughness  of  his  application  of  en- 
ergy to  roses  and  lilies  were  not  confined  to  directing  gardening  activities 
from  a  wheel-chair  but  resulted  in  the  publication  of  The  Book  of  Roses 
(1866).  When  one  recalls  that,  on  top  of  the  anxieties  caused  by  his  state 
of  health,  the  death  of  his  wife  and  of  his  only  son  within  a  year  of  each 
other  was  added  to  his  miseries,  the  fullness  of  his  woe  can  be  better  un- 
derstood. He  saved  himself  from  despair  by  hard  work. 

Later  years  luckily  took  a  turn  for  the  better,  though  he  was  always 
a  half -blind  invalid;  and  the  individual  histories  which  formed  the  illustri- 
ous series  on  "France  and  England  in  North  America"  came  out  as  stead- 
ily as  he  could  complete  them.  Parkman  was  irked  by  woman  suffrage  and 
expressed  fears  of  rule  by  the  masses  but  never  repined  at  his  own  mis- 
fortunes. Instead,  he  looked  upon  his  faulty  eyesight  as  a  blessing  that 
forced  him  to  slow  and  deliberate  composition.  The  first  of  the  works  in 
the  series  appeared  in  1865,  Pioneers  of  France  in  the  New  World,  and 
was  succeeded  by  The  Jesuits  in  North  America  in  the  Seventeenth  Cen- 
tury (1867),  The  Discovery  of  the  Great  West  (1869,  revised  ten  years 
later  as  LaSalle  and  the  Discovery  of  the  Great  West),  The  Old  Regime  in 
Canada  (1874),  an^  Count  Frontenac  and  New  France  under  Louis  XIV 
(1877).  After  finishing  the  last-mentioned,  he  was  greatly  worried  lest 
he  might  die  before  his  annals  could  be  completed  according  to  the  orig- 
inal plan,  and  turned  to  the  final  study  in  the  outline,  Montcalm  and  Wolfe 
(1884),  which  covers  the  end  of  the  French  regime  in  Canada.  The  last 
two  volumes  in  the  series  to  be  finished  were  entitled  A  Half-Century  of 
Conflict  (1892).  Each  of  the  separate  titles  is  an  entity  in  itself,  and  the 
co-ordination  of  the  series  as  a  whole  is  somewhat  loose,  but  still  effective. 
The  critics  were  generally  favorable  from  the  outset,  but  not  until  the 
nineties  did  Parkman's  importance  become  apparent.  The  sale  of  the 
books  was  by  no  means  large;  Montcalm  and  Wolfe  in  its  first  edition 
numbered  only  fifteen  hundred  copies.  But  in  time  the  whole  series  was 
several  times  reprinted  and  fared  much  better. 

"France  and  England  in  North  America"  is  Parkman's  monument— 


782  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

literature  in  every  sense  that  the  word  may  be  applied  to  history.  With 
all  its  scrupulous  dependence  on  documents,  the  narrative  often  spills 
forth  with  the  liveliness  of  fiction,  and  the  style  is  relatively  free  from 
the  excess  of  his  earlier  books.  Astounding  visual  memory  and  imagina- 
tion make  the  descriptions  of  persons  and  places  stand  out  as  if  painted 
in  color;  the  zest  for  thoroughness  rarely  results  in  the  confusion  of  clut- 
tered detail.  The  subject  matter  as  a  rule  has  an  implicit  romantic  radiance. 
Where  it  is  possible  to  make  human  beings  the  dominant  element  in  the 
narration,  Parkman  gives  them  place  as  heroic  integers;  where  personality 
is  of  less  consequence,  he  achieves  focus  by  contrasting  the  English  char- 
acter with  that  of  the  French.  When  drama  is  in  order,  he  never  hesitates 
to  use  it.  So  many  passages  of  splendid  literary  value  appear  throughout 
the  series  that  no  man  can  say  which  is  best,  though  the  purple  patches  in 
Montcalm  and  Wolfe  are  the  most  frequently  reprinted.  It  is  a  curious 
reflection  on  the  narrowness  of  critical  vision  that  The  Oregon  Trail, 
good  as  it  is,  should  still  remain  better  known  to  students  of  American 
literature  than  "France  and  England  in  North  America." 


Since  the  nineteen-twenties,  the  literary  crown  which  Parkman  inherited 
from  Prescott  and  Motley  has  been  transferred  to  the  brow  of  Henry 
Adams.  Like  Parkman,  he  is  associated  in  the  minds  of  the  present  genera- 
tion with  one  of  his  shorter  products.  His  renown  seems  to  rest  primarily 
on  a  peculiar  autobiography,  The  Education  of  Henry  Adams.  This  covers 
certain  phases  of  its  author's  experiences  from  boyhood  to  the  year  1905 
and  purports'  to  demonstrate  the  unfitness  of  an  "eighteenth-century" 
mind  for  comprehending  either  the  multiplicity  of  the  nineteenth  or  the 
chaos  of  the  twentieth  century.  Its  later  chapters  also  outline  a  novel 
theory  of  history,  viewing  ideological  and  cultural  phenomena  as  the 
products  of  the  reaction  between  force  and  force,  and  subject  to  a  law 
of  acceleration  as  definite  as  any  formula  of  mechanics.  In  writing  it, 
Adams  emulated  St.  Augustine  and  Rousseau  in  mixing  narrative,  didactic 
purpose,  and  style.  The  appeal  of  the  book  has  been  confined  to  intel- 
lectuals, and  it  owes  a  measure  of  its  success  not  only  to  stylistic  finish 
but  also  to  a  mood  of  ironic  pessimism.  When  privately  printed  in  1907, 
The  Education  had  as  subtitle  "A  Study  of  Twentieth-Century  Multi- 
plicity"; but  when  it  was  published  in  191 8,  Henry  Cabot  Lodge,  the 
author's  old  friend  and  pupil,  allowed  the  word  "Autobiography"  to  ap- 
pear on  the  title  page.  As  a  revelation  of  Adams,  the  book  is  unsatisfactory, 
for  many  years  and  aspects  of  his  interests  are  omitted  from  the  record, 
as  well  as  all  references  to  his  wife,  whose  suicide  in  1885  plunged  him 
into  a  mood  of  despondency  from  which  he  never  recovered.  The  reader 
who  probes  beneath  its  irony  for  a  clear  picture  of  the  writer  will  most 
certainly  be  disappointed,  not  so  much  because  Adams  chose  to  write 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  783 

about  himself  in  the  third  person— Parkman  also  did  that  in  his  bits  of  auto- 
biography—but because  the  man's  reserve  and  shyness  were  so  overwhelm- 
ing that  he  was  constitutionally  unable  to  objectify  or  dramatize  his  own 
nature.  Even  in  letters  to  most  intimate  friends,  he  was,  though  sincere, 
forever  putting  on  a  mask.  Ignorance,  he  admitted,  was  his  "favorite  pro- 
tective pose";  and  at  least  once  he  truthfully  confessed,  "Self-deprecation 
has  always  been  my  vice,  and  morbid  self-contempt  my  moral  weak- 
ness." 2T  For  forty  years  he  allowed  no  picture  of  himself  to  be  made,  and 
when  a  favorite  niece  made  a  sketch  of  him  on  the  sly  he  tore  the  paper 
to  shreds.  Until  after  his  death,  his  own  brother  did  not  know  that  Henry 
had  published  two  novels. 

Though  Adams  whimpered  that  the  world  would  end  in  a  bang,  he 
enjoyed  watching  for  signs  of  the  coming  blast  and  gleefully  made  ready 
to  clap  his  hands  at  the  dissolution.  Grievances,  he  said,  were  no  fun  un- 
less aired  like  new  hats  at  Easter,  but  his  own  grief  he  rarely  mentioned 
to  even  the  closest  relatives.  At  the  time  when  he  was  reading  St.  Thomas 
or  singing  Old  French  songs  with  his  nieces,  he  was  also  searching  the 
latest  contributions  to  physics  or  reveling  in  Karl  Pearson's  The  Gram- 
mar of  Science.  A  friend  of  Theodore  Roosevelt,  he  loathed  the  "strenu- 
ous life"  but  spent  many  years  touring  the  world,  from  the  South  Seas 
to  Egypt,  and  in  old  age  knocked  back  and  forth  across  the  Atlantic  with 
the  resilience  of  a  tennis  ball.  Few  men  of  his  generation  were  more  so- 
phisticated than  he,  yet  he  yearned  for  the  simple  faith  of  a  medieval 
peasant  and  wrote  rhymed  prayers  to  the  Virgin  of  Chartres  and  to  a 
dynamo.28  After  mastering  history  and  toying  with  fiction  writing, 
Adams  tried  not  only  to  "feel"  reality  as  the  painter  feels  it  but  also  to 
grasp  the  laws  of  thermodynamics  as  they  were  understood  by  the  mathe- 
matical-physicists. "We  are  all  facets  of  the  great  diamond  folly,"  he 
averred;  "as  a  practical  joke  at  our  expense,  life  is  a  success."  Yet  he  longed 
for  a  good  book  on  the  Stoics.  Karl  Marx,  he  thought,  had  taught  him 
much,  and  he  believed  that  socialism  would  eventually  triumph,  but  he 
preferred  to  effect  his  quietus  in  the  company  of  the  "Jews"  and  "Gold- 
bugs"  and  half-seriously  referred  to  himself  as  a  "conservative  Christian 
anarchist." 

Of  history  teaching  he  had  had  his  fill  in  the  seventies  and  in  1884 
announced,  "We  know  too  little  yet  to  make  a  science  of  history,"  but 
soon  thereafter  he  was  birching  the  professors  to  make  them  quicken  the 
corpse  of  history  by  transfusing  scientific  formulae.  Probably  the  most 
bizarre  effort  ever  made  to  wed  abstruse  science  and  the  historical  method 
is  Adams's  essay  on  "The  Rule  of  Phase  Applied  to  History,"  which  is 

27  Letters  of  Henry  Adams,  1892-1918,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford  (Boston  and 
New  York,  1938),  pp.  366,  450. 

28  Letters  to  a  Niece  and  Prayer  to  the  Virgin  of  Chartres:  With  a  Niece's 
Memories  by  Mabel  La  Farge  (Boston  and  New  York,  1920). 


784  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Greek  to  the  barbarian  historians  and  barbarism  to  the  Boeotian  scien- 
tists.29 Probably  no  other  American  of  his  generation  who  qualified  either 
as  historian  or  as  belles-lettrist  bared  his  breast  to  the  slings  and  arrows  of 
science  with  more  determination  than  did  Adams,  and  none  displayed  in 
old  age  a  greater  alacrity  in  attempting  to  keep  up  with  new  developments. 
For  a  literary  mind,  his  early  realization  of  the  significance  of  the  dis- 
covery of  X-rays  is  not  only  remarkable;  it  is  astounding.  But,  alas,  Adams's 
application  of  thermodynamics  to  history  has  had  no  results  whatsoever, 
and  the  invasion  of  scientific  theory  into  his  writings  has  mingled  clay 
with  the  perennial  brass.  For  the  student  of  ideas,  however,  he  is  the  most 
fascinating  literary  figure  of  his  times. 

Descended  from  two  Presidents  of  the  United  States,  Adams  graduated 
from  Harvard  in  1858  and  thereafter  went  to  Germany  to  study  but  soon 
returned,  to  further  his  legal  education  at  home,  to  act  as  newspaper  cor- 
respondent and  lobbyist,  and  to  serve  as  a  secretary  to  his  father.  During 
the  Civil  War  he  helped  his  parent  in  the  ticklish  duties  of  Minister  to 
the  Court  of  St.  James's  and  stayed  abroad  until  1868,  when  a  sojourn 
in  Washington  gave  him  his  first  opportunity  to  study  government  as 
practiced  in  the  American  headquarters.  The  administration  of  Grant 
showed  no  intention  of  calling  upon  the  Adamses  for  help,  and,  after  an- 
other trip  to  Europe,  he  accepted,  in  1870,  a  position  as  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  history  at  Harvard  and  as  editor  of  The  North  American  Re- 
view. In  Cambridge,  he  taught  various  branches  of  his  subject:  medieval, 
English  constitutional,  as  well  as  American  history,  and  was  the  first 
Harvard  instructor  to  conduct  a  real  seminar  in  the  field.  Seven  years  on 
the  faculty  convinced  him  that  academic  life  was  dull,  though  he  enjoyed 
the  company  of  Lowell  and  William  James  and  was  most  happy  in  the 
domestic  life  established  after  his  marriage  to  an  heiress  in  1872.  Possibly 
because  he  liked  living  in  a  capital,  in  1877  Adams  moved  to  Washing- 
ton, his  home,  whenever  he  was  not  travelling,  for  the  remainder  of  his 
life.  There  he  dwelt  in  the  midst  of  a  delightful  circle  of  friends,  among 
them  John  Hay,  Clarence  King,  John  La  Farge,  a  literary  statesman,  a 
geologist,  and  an  artist.  His  first  publications  were  the  usual  letters  from 
abroad  printed  in  American  newspapers,  and  during  the  war  he  cor- 
responded for  the  New  York  Times  and  also  wrote  essays  for  The  North 
American  Review,   beginning   his  historical   studies   with   a   treatise  on 

29  Finished  in  1909  and  posthumously  published  in  Brooks  Adams,  The  Degradation 
of  the  Democratic  Dogma  (1919).  (The  Introduction  is  an  interesting  revelation  of 
Brooks  Adams's  acceptance  of  the  doctrines  of  naturalism.)  Henry  Adams's  ventures 
in  historical  theory  should  be  read  in  the  following  order:  "The  Tendency  of 
History,"  Annual  Report  of  the  American  Historical  Association  for  the  Year  1894 
(Washington,  1895);  the  last  three  chapters  of  Mont-Saint-Michel  and  Chartres; 
Chaps.  XXXIII  and  XXXIV  of  The  Education;  A  Letter  to  American  Teachers  of 
History  (Washington,  1910)-,  the  introductory  letter  explaining  the  purpose  of  the 
Phase  Rule  essay  in  Henry  Adams  and  His  Friends,  ed.  Harold  D.  Cater  (1947), 
Appendix;  and,  finally,  "The  Rule  of  Phase  Applied  to  History." 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  785 

Captain  John  Smith.  Several  of  his  early  magazine  essays,  largely  eco- 
nomic and  reformatory  in  nature,  are  important  contributions  to  the 
attack  on  the  political  corruption  of  the  time.  His  efforts  may  be  glimpsed 
in  Chapters  of  Erie  and  Other  Essays  ( 1871),  and  his  ideas  on  civil-service 
reform  are  set  forth  in  a  pamphlet  privately  printed  in  1869.  The  noto- 
riety provoked  by  some  of  his  comments  on  contemporary  affairs  prob- 
ably reinvigorated  his  purpose,  announced  years  before,  to  seek  "a  quiet 
literary  life."  30 

His  first  book  of  any  general  literary  value  was  a  biography  of  famed 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury  Albert  Gallatin  (1879);  it  is  the  most  important 
of  Adams's  several  efforts  in  that  genre.  While  teaching  at  Harvard,  he 
conceived  the  idea  of  writing  a  major  history  of  the  United  States  and 
chose  for  his  subject  the  administrations  of  Jefferson  and  Madison,  and 
for  this  task  he  spent  years  in  rounding  up  documents  with  much  care 
and  expense.  John  Gorham  Palfrey  (1 796-1 881)  had  been  the  first  of 
his  historical  friends,  and  he  was  greatly  encouraged  by  George  Ban- 
croft and  others.  Of  the  German  school  he  knew  the  work  of  many,  for 
he  was  fully  abreast  of  the  currents  in  the  historiography  of  the  time. 
His  biography  of  Gallatin,  as  well  as  the  editing  of  the  Secretary's  papers 
and  other  documents  of  the  Federalist  period,  helped  materially  in  pro- 
viding background  for  his  studies  of  the  Jeffersonian  era,  but  before  he 
finished  his  task  he  relaxed  from  more  scholarly  pursuits  to  write  two 
novels.  Democracy  (1880)  and  Esthej  (1884)  were  published,  however, 
without  his  name  on  their  pages.  The  former  is  the  more  entertaining, 
but  neither  is  of  great  moment  in  the  history  of  fiction.  Democracy, 
especially  in  its  earlier  portions,  does  have  a  clever  wit,  but  primarily 
undertakes  to  satirize  Washington  politicians.  A  love  affair,  eventually 
broken  off,  between  a  charming  widow  of  culture  and  means  and  a  pow- 
erful but  crude  Middle-Western  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  supplies  the 
chief  vehicle  for  the  narrative.  Adams's  conclusion  regarding  government 
in  a  democratic  republic  is  that,  no  matter  how  crooked  it  is,  it  is  no  dif- 
ferent from  that  of  Europe  save  that  the  participants  in  Washington  are 
less  urbane  and  less  realistic.  The  President  and  his  wife,  however,  are 
satirized  beyond  recognition  as  nincompoops  who  ape  European  courts, 
and  George  Washington,  unlike  contemporary  Virginians  in  the  novel, 
is  mentioned  in  a  very  disparaging  fashion.  In  addition  to  politics  and  so- 
ciety, the  characters  discuss  Herbert  Spencer  and  evolution.31  During  the 
author's  lifetime  Democracy  outsold  all  the  rest  of  his  books,  its  success 
being  greatest  in  England,  where  pirates  reprinted  it  for  the  amusement 
of  the  class  that  enjoyed  the  gilded  bondage  of  the  country  mansion  and 
hated  democracy  as  a  plague. 

30  Adams's  activities  as  a  journalist  are  most  competently  surveyed  in  Ernest 
Samuels,  The  Young  Henry  Adams  (1948). 

31  See  the  reprint  ([1933]),  pp.  2,  78,  101. 


786  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Esther  was  scarcely  read  at  all.  With  all  its  technical  gaucherie,  this 
novel  is  a  curious  foreshadowing  of  many  of  Adams's  later  interests  inas- 
much as  it  represents  a  serious  discussion  of  religion,  science,  and  art. 
Since  the  characters  are  the  speakers,  it  is  impossible  to  isolate  the  author's 
own  opinions,  but  it  is  evident  that  he  was  entoiled  in  the  reigning  con- 
flict between  inherited  faith  and  the  negations  of  the  evolutionists.  He 
makes  one  of  the  men  in  the  book,  a  professor  of  science,  attempt  to  prop 
the  agnostic  heroine  by  saying:  "You  need  what  is  called  faith,  and  are 
trying  to  get  it  by  reason.  It  can't  be  done.  Faith  is  a  state  of  mind,  like 
love  or  jealousy.  You  can  never  reason  yourself  into  it."  32  Throughout 
the  remainder  of  his  life,  Adams  was  himself  to  vindicate  the  truth  of 
that  utterance.  If  further  proof  is  needed  to  show  that  the  historian- 
novelist  was  fonder  of  women  than  he  was  of  men,  the  centrality  given 
the  female  characters  in  these  two  books  will  supply  it. 

When  the  woman  who  stood  highest  in  his  affections,  and  who  may 
herself  have  been  the  model  for  his  heroines,  ended  her  life  in  1885  by 
swallowing  poison,  Adams  was  utterly  crushed.  He  sought  relief  through 
travel,  surrounded  himself  with  his  nieces  and  their  friends,  but  found 
himself  straying  out  to  the  cemetery  to  sit  in  silence  beside  the  beautiful 
monument  he  had  had  erected  in  her  memory.  He  sought  peace  also  by 
a  return  to  scholarly  work.  His  History  of  the  United  States,  covering 
the  years  1801  to  18 17,  appeared  in  nine  volumes  (1889-91),  and,  like  a 
number  of  his  other  books,  was  published  at  his  own  expense.  The  History 
has  proved  less  popular  than  Parkman's  chef-d'oeuvre  but  is  still  standard 
for  the  period  treated,  albeit  objections  have  been  made  to  some  of  its 
interpretations.  As  a  literary  exercise,  it  is  not  of  the  highest  order  in  spite 
of  certain  very  effective  chapters,  notably  the  one  on  "American  Ideals" 
in  the  first  volume.  The  student  of  literature  should,  however,  be  directed 
to  the  discussion  of  American  authors  in  the  earliest  chapters  of  the  his- 
tory and  in  Chapter  IX  of  the  final  volume,  for  it  reflects  critical  discern- 
ment of  an  astute  order  and  anticipates  much  that  has  more  lately  been 
said.  In  some  ways,  it  would  have  been  impossible  for  Adams  to  make  of 
his  work  a  genuine  literary  performance,  for  he  was  at  the  time  of  writ- 
ing still  too  much  of  a  professional  historian.  Moreover,  the  consideration 
of  foreign  relations  and  of  constitutional  law  demanded  by  his  subject  is 
essentially  alien  to  the  literary  artist.  In  the  narrative  one  notes,  too,  a 
purposed  sacrifice  of  dramatic  elements  in  favor  of  rationalization  of 
causes.  Parkman  would  never  have  passed  over  the  duel  between  Hamil- 
ton and  Burr  in  the  one  abstract  paragraph  which  Adams  devotes  to  that 
topic.  Nor  would  Parkman  have  failed,  as  did  the  more  scientific  Adams, 
to  weld  the  various  factors  motivating  Napoleon's  sale  of  Louisiana  into 
a  single  entity.  There  are  frequent  repetitions  of  minor  details  in  the  his- 
tory, and  the  conclusion  does  not  altogether  satisfy.  But  such  faults  have 

32  Scholars'  facsimile  reprint  (1938),  p.  201. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  787 

interfered  very  little  with  the  usefulness  which  scholars  continue  to  find  in 
the  work.  During  the  Second  World  War,  when  the  armed  forces  desired 
an  account  of  the  War  of  18 12  for  reprinting,  nothing  better  could  be 
found  than  the  appropriate  section  of  Adams's  history. 

In  his  conclusion,  the  author  suggested,  "Should  history  ever  become 
a  true  science,  it  must  expect  to  establish  its  laws,  not  from  the  complicated 
story  of  rival  European  nationalities,  but  from  the  methodical  evolution 
of  a  great  democracy."  33  But  it  is  obvious  that  in  1891  he  could  demon- 
strate no  clear  functioning  of  evolutionary  processes  in  the  limited  period 
that  he  had  studied.  So  far  as  evolution  is  concerned,  Adams  while  in  col- 
lege, had  been  aroused  by  the  teachings  of  Agassiz,  an  opponent,  but  in 
England  had  become  friendly  with  Charles  Lyell,  whose  earlier  attack 
on  the  creationists  had  prepared  that  geologist  to  join  forces  with  Darwin. 
For  a  time,  Adams  seems  to  have  become  a  partial  adherent  of  evolu- 
tionary doctrines  though  he  always  had  certain  reservations,34  but  in  the 
nineties  his  restiveness  with  the  teleological  optimism  that  seemed  to 
go  hand  in  hand  with  evolution  as  employed  by  historians  increased  to  the 
point  of  cynical  opposition.  He  had  long  been  inclined  to  mix  science 
and  metaphysics  and  was  forever  making  prophecies  of  disaster.  Both 
propensities  grew  upon  him  as  he  aged.  In  1901,  he  wrote  to  his  brother 
Brooks:  "The  present  society  must  break  its  damn  neck  in  a  definite,  but 
remote,  time,  not  exceeding  fifty  years  more.  This  is  an  arithmetical  cal- 
culation from  given  data,  as,  for  example,  from  explosives,  or  electric 
energy,  or  control  of  cosmic  power."  35  It  may  be  reassuring  to  remember 
that  during  the  Civil  War  he  had  also  prophesied  the  intervention  of  the 
British  on  the  Southern  side.  Following  the  death  of  his  wife,  and  especi- 
ally after  the  depression  of  1893,  Adams  waded  through  the  works  of 
scientists  and  pessimistic  philosophers,  looking  for  corroboration  of  his 
belief  that  the  neat  patterns  of  development  which  the  evolutionists  had 
marked  out  were  gulling  not  only  historians  but  the  world  at  large;  and 
he  abandoned  all  trust  that  science  would  show  a  way  to  a  fluent  and  per- 
vasive unity.  Chaos,  multiplicity,  disaster— that  seemed  to  be  the  message 
of  economics  as  well  as  of  the  new  X-rays.  But  still  he  longed  for  faith 
and  for  unity.  The  dynamos  which  he  saw  whirring  at  the  world's  fairs 
appeared  to  symbolize  the  power  of  his  own  era  even  as  the  Virgin  Mary 
seemed  to  sum  up  the  faith  of  the  Middle  Ages.  And  so,  torn  by  his  lack 
of  affirmation,  Adams  resolved  to  pay  his  devoirs  to  both— but  not  with 
the  satisfaction  with  which  Montaigne  had  burned  his  candles  before  St. 
George  as  well  as  the  dragon. 

In  his  attempts  to  philosophize  over  the  development  of  history  as  force, 

33  History  of  the  United  States  of  America  during  the  Second  Administration  of 
James  Madison  (1891),  Vol.  3,  p.  222. 

34  The  Education,  Chap.  XV;  The  Young  Henry  Adams,  pp.  16-23,  128-135. 

35  Cater,  Henry  Adams,  p.  508. 


788  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

he  found  his  serenest  pleasures  in  contemplating  the  seeming  unity  exhib- 
ited in  France  of  the  eleventh  and  twelfth  centuries,  and  a  tour  of  Nor- 
mandy inspired  him  with  a  new  enthusiasm  for  stained  glass,  Gothic 
architecture,  and  the  other  cultural  manifestations  of  a  great  age  of  acqui- 
escence. In  1 895  he  wrote  to  John  Hay  a  letter  which  marks  the  beginning 
of  his  attempt  to  put  himself  under  the  dominion  of  the  Virgin.36  There- 
after, until  ill  health  and  the  First  World  War  put  an  end  to  such  junkets, 
he  visited  France  with  the  frequency  and  devotion  common  to  fashion- 
able Americans  possessed  of  ample  leisure  and  twenty-five  thousand 
dollars  a  year.  His  enjoyment  of  the  Aiiddle  Ages,  enhanced  by  studies  of 
architecture,  philosophy,  literature,  economics,  and  theology,  in  due 
course  led  to  the  writing  of  another  book,  Mont-Saint-Michel  and  Char- 
tres,  privately  printed  in  1904,  revised  and  enlarged  in  191 2,  and  finally 
published  in  191 3.  This  is  probably  Adams's  chief  contribution  to  litera- 
ture. A  free-and-easy  historical  idyl  in  which  an  attempt  is  made  to  ap- 
proach its  subject  through  the  sensory  effect  of  the  fine  arts,  the  book 
evokes  the  spirit  of  its  time  in  a  unified  interpretation  very  characteristic 
of  its  author.  Adams's  touch  is  on  every  page,  though  every  page  is  of 
the  Aiiddle  Ages.  The  cathedrals  take  on  an  immediacy  which  makes  one 
feel  their  very  walls  in  the  process  of  building;  Abelard,  St.  Thomas,  and 
even  the  lovers  of  "Aucassin  and  Nicolette"  are  humanized;  while  over 
all  the  adoration  of  the  Virgin  casts  an  almost  physical  spell.  It  was  a  labor 
of  love,  contrived  for  the  edification  of  his  nieces  and  to  give  solace  to 
himself;  it  was  also  a  tour  de  force— as  if  Voltaire  had  written  a  new 
Gospel  of  St.  John. 

Even  as  Adams  was  writing  its  last  three  chapters,  he  felt  that  the 
twelfth  century  was  only  the  fixed  element  in  an  equation  that  demanded 
solution;  the  Middle  Ages  persisted  primarily  as  "a  picture  that  has  some- 
how to  be  brought  into  relation  with  ourselves."  3T  More  essential  than 
medieval  studies  to  Adams  in  his  later  days  was  the  working  out  of  the 
"formula  of  anarchism"— the  "law  of  expansion  from  unity,  simplicity, 
morality,  to  multiplicity,  contradiction,  police"— and  preoccupation  with 
that  "law"  was  to  spoil  the  only  consequential  book  he  was  yet  to  write. 
While  composing  The  Education,  he  could  no  longer  restrain  himself 
from  the  dire  scientism  which  he  had  almost  driven  into  the  arriere  in 
Mont-Saint-Michel.  As  a  contribution  to  thought,  the  prime  value  of  The 
Education  lies  in  its  offering,  on  an  intellectual  plane,  a  fascinating  criti- 
cism of  nineteenth-century  ideals  and  a  statement,  poignant  yet  restrained, 
of  the  unhappy  bewilderment  which  has  come  into  broader  recognition  as 
the  present  century  has  advanced.  In  a  way,  the  book  is  a  companion 
piece  to  T.  S.  Eliot's  The  Waste  Land,  though  in  chronology  Adams's 
disillusionment  belongs  to  the  earlier  winters  of  discontent  that  chilled 

36  Cater,  Henry  Adams,  pp.  346-348. 
•{7  Cater,  Henry  Adams,  pp.  559-560. 


THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS  789 

the  marrow  of  Howells,  Eggleston,  and  Mark  Twain.  No  book  better 
demonstrates  the  folly  of  assuming  that  "postwar"   pessimism  has  had 
little  connection  with  the  thought  of  the  "Victorians." 
While  it  is  reflected  to  a  degree  in  both  Mont-Saint-Michel  and  The 

o 
Education,  the  delightful  sense  of  humor  which  Adams  shared  with  so 

many  of  his  contemporaries  is  best  seen  in  his  private  letters.38  Spurning 
the  stenographer  or  the  typewriter,  he  communicated  with  his  friends  and 
relatives  often  with  the  leisured  gracefulness  and  stylistic  charm  which 
have  rarely  survived  in  an  age  of  hurry.  Especially  while  on  his  multi- 
tudinous travels,  he  put  himself  out  to  entertain  his  correspondents,  and 
the  results  are  still  able  to  entertain  us.  Moreover,  his  letters  embody  his 
essential  opinions  and  show  better  than  anything  else  the  urbanity  and 
wit  with  which  he  could  make  a  pearl  out  of  the  sand  that  irritated  his 
sensitive  nature. 

Like  Melville,  Adams  could  neither  believe  nor  be  satisfied  with  his 
disbelief  but  still  was  fortunate  enough  to  make  literary  capital  out  of  his 
sorrow.  Like  Mark  Twain,  he  could  entertain  though  his  moods  were 
atrabilious.  But,  more  than  any  other  American  author  of  his  time,  he 
followed  the  fashions  of  science  to  an  eventual  smash-up  of  all  inherited 
idealism.  In  the  last  analysis,  however,  his  employment  of  science  was 
precisely  like  that  of  Emerson,  namely,  to  find  corroboration  for  intuitive 
reactions.  In  Henry  Adams  the  nineteenth  century  really  never  died. 

38  In  addition  to  the  collections  mentioned  in  previous  notes,  the  following  contain 
the  chief  ones:  A  Cycle  of  Adams  Letters,  1861-1865,  2  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York, 
1920);  and  Letters  of  Henry  Adams,  1858-1891  (Boston  and  New  York,  1930),  both 
ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford. 


Chapter  39 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE 


With  the  multiplying  of  city  dwellers  and  the  never-ending  spread  of 
railroads  to  make  easier  the  travels  of  touring  companies,  it  was  inevitable 
that  the  theatre  should  grow  into  a  big  business.  One  index  of  its  growth 
is  afforded  by  the  number  of  actors  listed  in  the  census  reports:  the  fifteen 
hundred  professionals  recorded  in  i860  increased  ten  years  later  to  slightly 
more  than  two  thousand,  and  by  1900  totalled  nearly  fifteen  thousand. 
The  Civil  War  undoubtedly  slowed  the  pace  of  natural  development,  yet 
its  retarding  effects  were  more  than  compensated  for  by  the  mushroom- 
ing of  the  amusement  business  beginning  in  the  late  eighties.  The  phenom- 
enal increase  in  the  nineties,  borne  out  by  the  record  of  plays  deposited  for 
copyright,1  is  to  be  ascribed  in  part  to  the  rise  of  a  kind  of  cafe  society 
and  to  a  general  undermining  of  the  hostility  to  the  theatre  on  moral 
grounds.  In  New  York,  the  theatrical  center  of  the  nation,  The  Black 
Crook  (1866)  attained  immediate  fame  not  only  by  its  spectacular  use  of 
scenery  but  more  by  its  daringly  undraped  ballet— all  encased  in  cotton 
tights.  Its  frequent  revivals  played  to  good  houses,  and  the  dancers  of  the 
nineties  who  indulged  in  the  bolder  maneuvers  of  the  cancan  likewise  were 
popular.  In  the  hinterland  there  was  more  feeling  against  the  immoralities 
brightened  by  footlights,  but  many  a  deacon  was  forced  to  change  his 
attitude  after  attending  in  his  local  "opera  house"  a  performance  of  Uncle 
Tom's  Cabin  or  one  of  the  products  of  Gilbert  and  Sullivan,  for  which 
there  was  a  frenzy  of  interest,  starting  in  1878  with  Pinafore.  ' 

Generally  speaking,  the  American  theatregoer  had  most  conservative 
taste.  Older  plays  established  by  long  success  were  favored;  novelties  of 
playwrights  like  Ibsen  were  disliked.  Throughout  the  century,  the  min- 
strels with  their  burnt  cork  and  joking  end-men  continued  to  appear,  and 
the  illustrious  companies  of  Christy,  Bryant,  and  Wood  were  succeeded 
by  renowned  troupes  such  as  that  of  Al  G.  Field,  who  toured  the  Middle 

1  Dramatic  Compositions  Copyrighted  in  the  United  States  iSjo  to  1916,  2  Vols. 
(Washington,  19 18). 

790 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  79i 

West  with  the  regular  recurrence  of  the  state  fairs.  The  nineties  saw  more 
itinerant  bands  performing  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  than  any  previous  decade, 
though  the  season  of  1862  in  New  York  witnessed  the  appearance  of  four 
different  companies  all  acting  that  play  at  the  same  time.  On  occasion  the 
old  melodrama  was  needled  with  renewed  vigor  by  advertising  two  Toms 
or  two  Topsys  or  by  hiring  pugilistic  champions  like  John  L.  Sullivan  to 
act  the  role  of  Simon  Legree,2  but  no  American  play  was  more  of  a  hardy 
perennial  than  that  which  closed  with  little  Eva  mounting  to  the  skies  on  a 
wire.  The  stock  companies  which  furnished  such  a  remote  city  as  Seattle 
with  most  of  its  theatrical  entertainment  during  the  nineties  found  Uncle 
Tom  a  sure  money-getter,  along  with  East  Ly?me,  The  Octoroon,  The 
Tuoo  Orphans,  Ten  Nights  in  a  Bar-room,  and  The  Count  of  Monte 
Cristo.3  The  last-mentioned  not  only  was  one  of  the  prime  favorites  of 
the  period  but  has  an  additional  interest  in  that  it  provided  the  father  of 
Eugene  O'Neill  with  his  most  profitable  role. 

The  warm  reception  bestowed  on  Monte  Cristo  and  Uncle  Tom  illus- 
trates the  wide  appeal  of  adaptations  of  novels,  for  probably  no  era  in 
the  history  of  the  stage  exhibited  a  greater  relish  for  fiction  turned  into 
plays  than  the  later  decades  of  the  century.  Amelie  Rives's  The  Quick  or 
the  Dead?,  Tourgee's  A  Fool's  Errand,  Harte's  Gabriel  Conroy— these  and 
scores  of  other  American  novels  went  on  the  boards,  along  with  dozens 
of  European  rivals.  Even  Zola's  V Assommoir  was  staged.  Short  stories, 
too,  were  sometimes  levied  on,  examples  being  Stockton's  "The  Lady  or 
the  Tiger?"  and  "The  Luck  of  Roaring  Camp,"  which  Bret  Harte  himself 
in  1870  made  over  into  the  four  acts  of  In  the  Sierras.  But  no  new  short 
tale  became  as  famous  on  the  contemporary  stage  as  Irving's  "Rip  Van 
Winkle,"  which  made  of  Jo  Jefferson  one  of  the  immortals  of  the  Ameri- 
can theatre.  There  is,  however,  one  dramatized  novel  that  in  time  rivalled 
Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  and  likewise  has  become  a  part  of  the  national 
folklore,  namely,  Ben-Hur:  A  Tale  of  the  Christ  (1880). 

Its  author,  Lewis  Wallace  (1827-1905),  interrupted  activities  as  a  jour- 
nalist, politician,  and  lawyer  to  enter  the  army  during  the  Mexican  War 
and  to  serve  in  the  campaigns  of  the  sixties,  rising  to  the  rank  of  a  major 
general.  Though  without  much  education,  Wallace  was  always  lured  by 
artistic  pursuits  and  in  1873  published  a  novel  about  the  conquest  of 
Mexico,  The  Fair  God.  The  results  were  not  especially  encouraging,  but 
later,  while  acting  as  Governor  of  the  Territory  of  New  Mexico,  he  found 
time  to  work  on  the  last  quarter  of  a  new  story,  even  when  distracted  by 
the  necessity  of  quelling  Apache  raids  or  rounding  up  Billy  the  Kid. 
Somewhat  agnostic  in  his  views,  Wallace  at  first  had  planned  merely  a 
short  narrative  featuring  the  three  Magi  but,  after  a  conversation  with 

2  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger,  The  Rise  of  the  City  (1933),  p.  296. 

3  Mary  K.  Rohrer,  The  History  of  Seattle  Stock  Companies  from  Their  Beginnings 
to  1934  (Seattie,  1945). 


792  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  notorious  "infider  Robert  G.  Ingersoll,  had  resolved  to  expand  his 
story  and  make  of  it  a  kind  of  corrective  to  the  preachments  of  that  elo- 
quent heretic.  Ben-Hur  thus  progressed  into  a  panoramic  romance  of  the 
time  of  Jesus.  The  seafight,  the  chariot  race,  and  the  reverential  picture  of 
the  Crucifixion  allied  adventure  and  piety  in  such  an  attractive  union  that 
by  1 9 1 1  a  million  copies  were  disposed  of  by  the  authorized  publishers, 
and  translations  carried  it  to  the  domain  of  Lithuanians  and  Arabs.  As 
soon  as  success  was  obvious,  clamors  were  heard  to  stage  it,  but  the  author 
was  fearful  of  seeming  impiety,  though  he  himself  in  1890  completed  a 
version  in  tableaux  and  pantomime.  Meanwhile,  he  was  appointed  Minister 
to  Turkey  and  continued  to  busy  himself  with  fiction  and  verse,  the  chief 
result  being  another  novel,  The  Prince  of  India  (1893),  a  story  of  the 
Wandering  Jew,  who  this  time  turns  up  before  the  Emperor  Constantine 
and  presents  a  plan  for  a  universal  religious  union.  Probably  because  he 
feared  unsanctioned  dramatizations  of  his  best  seller,  Wallace  at  length 
relented  and  permitted  Klaw  and  Erlanger  to  hire  William  Young,  a  mid- 
dle-aged Chicagoan,  to  adapt  Ben-Hur.  It  was  first  performed  in  1899, 
with  steel-faced  William  S.  Hart  as  Messala,  and  was  produced  six  thou- 
sand times  in  twenty-one  years,  chiefly  in  larger  cities  and  at  high  prices.4 
In  1907  a  one-reel  movie,  produced  by  Kalem,  was  made  of  it,  but  a 
successful  prosecution  not  only  stopped  its  showing  but  netted  twenty- 
five  thousand  dollars  in  damages.  A4ore  efficacious  in  giving  the  story  to 
the  humble  was  a  thirty-nine-cent  edition  issued  in  191 3  by  Sears,  Roebuck 
and  numbering  a  million  copies.  The  ultimate  accolade  came  in  1925, 
when  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  released  it  as  one  of  the  most  sensational 
motion  pictures  ever  screened.  King  George  and  Queen  Mary  attended  a 
special  showing  in  Windsor  Castle,  and  multitudes  of  less-favored  folk 
soon  thrilled  to  the  pantomime  of  Francis  X.  Bushman,  Ramon  Navarro, 
and  Betty  Bronson,  the  Madonna.  Any  who  missed  it  on  the  first  round 
had  another  opportunity  in  193 1  when  it  was  profitably  revived,  with 
sound  effects. 

While  few  plays  acted  by  professionals  possessed  the  religious  attrac- 
tions of  Ben-Hur,  the  melodrama  that  it  also  represented  was  prevalent 
among  the  serious  dramas  performed  on  the  American  stage  throughout 
the  period.  Any  notion  that  may  exist  as  to  a  decline  in  the  appeal  of 
melodrama  during  the  nineties  is  false.  The  so-called  society  play  indeed 
made  considerable  headway,  and  vaudeville  throve  with  ever-increasing 
favor,  but  melodramas  were  still  secure  in  popularity.  Even  as  a  mild 
appetite  for  realism  slowly  spread,  the  old  thrillers,  as  well  as  new  ones, 
could  find  renewed  charm  in  the  mechanical  improvements  in  the  method 
of  staging  flames  and  fire-engines,  trains  of  cars,  log  jams,  sawmills,  safes 
to  be  blown  up,  and  so  on.  "This  taste  for  realism,"  observed  a  reporter  in 

1  Irving  AlcKcc,  "Hen-Hur"  Wallace  (1947),  Chap.  XII. 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  793 

1 89 1,  made  people  who  wouldn't  pause  to  look  at  a  fire  rush  to  the  theatre 
merely  to  see  how  lifelike  a  stage  imitation  could  be.5 

Another  reporter,  in  a  syndicated  letter  of  the  same  year,  gives  us  about 
as  good  a  statement  of  the  popular  sentiment  as  can  be  found: 

I  have  too  long  struggled  with  the  flesh  and  the  devil  to  try  to  love  plays  that 
are  largely  composed  of  frocks,  gentlemen  attired  in  corsets,  with  plots  that 
hinged  on  the  religious  belief  of  the  hero  or  the  sin  of  the  heroine,  and  where 
everybody  talked  through  five  acts,  and  at  the  end  everybody  said,  "At  last 
we  know."  And  I  wondered  why  they  didn't  take  the  audience  into  the  secret. 
I  have  tried  to  like  these  plays.  I  don't.  I  think  there  must  be  a  touch  of  the 
ancient  Greek  in  me,  for  what  I  like,  and  what  most  women  like,  is  a  good, 
blood-curdling,  exciting  melodrama,  one  of  the  kind  where  the  heroine  is  an 
angel  of  goodness  and  the  villain  is  as  black  as  his  dress  clothes— I  mean  his 
heart  is  as  black.  The  sweetheart  as  nice  as  sugar  candy  and  the  friend  who 
helps  them  through  all  their  difficulties  is  not  exactly  a  tin  god  on  wheels,  but 
a  brisk  young  man  who  is  in  with  all  the  fire  companies,  who  has  an  amateur 
acquaintance  at  the  police  station,  and  who  has  the  knowledge  of  the  art  of 
telegraphing,  of  writing  shorthand,  and  the  apotheosis  of  the  art  of  make-up, 
so  that  he  can  send  messages  or  appear  disguised  and  rescue  virtue  from  vice. 
Then,  if  somebody  sings  a  comic  song  and  a  few  delightful  old  chestnuts  are 
served  up  as  fresh,  I  am  happy. . . .  The  other  night  I  went  to  see  a  play  called 
The  Fire  Patrol.  It  had  a  scene  in  it  away  out  in  Deadwood,  where  the  ore- 
crushers  were  just  coming  down  to  finish  up  one  of  the  most  virtuous  men  you 
ever  imagined.  We  hung,  frightened  out  of  our  wits,  on  to  the  orchestra  chairs. 
We  knew  he  was  going  to  be  saved,  but  all  the  same  we  had  the  dreadful 
feeling  beforehand  that  the  saviour  might  be  too  late,  and  when  he  got  there 
in  time  we  all  gave  a  sigh  of  relief,  and  lay  back  and  felt  as  if  we  ought  to 
congratulate  the  young  woman  who  owned  the  heart  of  the  young  man,  and 
for  whom  he  was  undertaking  such  dangers.  Then  there  was  another  scene, 
when  the  fire  patrol  came  tearing  in  to  keep  the  model  young  man  from  being 
murdered,  and  it  was  all  that  the  whole  section  of  femininity  could  do  to  keep 
from  cheering  the  firemen.6 

Along  with  melodramas,  the  most  popular  plays  were  likely  to  be  farce- 
comedies,  for  which  also  the  appetite  was  insatiable.  Many  critics  who 
censured  the  productions  frequently  pointed  to  the  exaggerations  of  the 
farces  as  one  of  the  handicaps  to  the  development  of  the  American  drama 
as  a  rational  means  of  entertainment.  "Tragedy,  high  comedy,  the  his- 
torical and  romantic  drama,"  said  the  editor  of  The  Century  in  its  issue 
for  August,  1895,  "have  been  virtually  banished  from  the  stage,  or  find 
few  worthy  interpreters,  and  have  been  replaced  to  a  large  extent  by 
worthless  melodramas,  the  extravagant  buffooneries  of  so-called  farce- 
comedies,  or  the  feverish  and  unwholesome  society  play,  in  which  the 

5  Conde  Hamlin,  in  the  St.  Paul  Pioneer  Press,  reprinted  in  Current  Literature, 
Vol.  8  (Dec.  1891),  pp.  611-613. 

6  Isabel  Mallon,  in  Current  Literature,  Vol.  8  (Nov.  1891),  pp.  407-409. 


794  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

most  vicious  topics  are  discussed  openly  under  the  pretense  of  solving 
social  problems."  The  prince  of  humorists,  Mark  Twain,  turned  his  back 
on  the  "lightsome  feast"  represented  in  theatrical  advertisements  in  a  New 
York  paper  for  May  7,  1898,  and  warned  his  countrymen,  "You  are  eating 
too  much  mental  sugar;  vou  will  bring  on  Bright's  disease  of  the  intellect." 
Clemens  advocated  the  establishment  of  a  great  company  in  New  York  to 
resemble  the  Bum  Theatre  in  Vienna. 

Then  [he  said]  with  a  tragedy-tonic  once  or  twice  a  month,  we  shall  enjoy  the 
comedies  all  the  better.  Comedy  keeps  the  heart  sweet;  but  we  all  know  that 
there  is  wholesome  refreshment  for  both  mind  and  heart  in  an  occasional  climb 
among  the  solemn  pomps  of  the  intellectual  snow-summits  built  by  Shake- 
speare and  those  others.  Do  I  seem  to  be  preaching?  It  is  out  of  my  line:  I 
only  do  it  because  the  rest  of  the  clergy  seem  to  be  on  vacation.7 

Many  others  shared  Mark  Twain's  opinion  that  the  founding  of  a  special 
theatre  would  deliver  the  American  stage  from  its  ailments,  and  for  a  while 
the  hope  was  indulged  that  Andrew  Carnegie  might  divert  a  portion  of 
his  philanthropic  resources  to  that  end.  But  the  rule  of  the  box  office  and 
the  suzerainty  of  the  merchants  of  amusement  were  unabated.  "The  play," 
wrote  A4ay  Irwin  in  1900,  "has  become  a  business  as  much  as  banking  and 
insurance."  8 


Commentators  on  the  shortcomings  of  the  theatre  mentioned  several 
causes  for  the  sad  state  of  affairs.  One  of  them  was  the  wholesale  depend- 
ence on  European,  especially  British,  plays.  There  can  be  no  question 
about  the  production  in  quantity  of  foreign  dramas,  whether  in  their 
original  form,  in  translations,  or  in  adaptations.  For  example,  in  1868-69, 
when  Howells  undertook  to  carry  on  his  habit  of  attendance  at  the  theatre 
acquired  in  Italy,  he  noted  that  most  of  the  plays  acted  in  Boston  were  of 
English  origin.  He  also  remarked  that  "the  Boston  which  makes  itself 
known  in  civilization— in  letters,  politics,  reform— goes  as  little  to  the 
theatre  as  fashionable  Boston."  9  The  attitude  of  the  public  was  also 
blamed.  Weary  with  the  day's  work,  the  audience  was  nervous  and  jaded, 
and  demanded  no  more  than  amusement.  To  the  Polish  actress  Helena 
Modjeska,  the  American  custom  of  advertising  theatrical  performances 
under  the  heading  "Amusements"  seemed  shocking,  and  she  was  astounded 
at  reading  next  to  a  criticism  of  a  performance  of  Julius  Caesar  a  descrip- 
tion of  a  show  of  trained  monkeys.10  A  third  evil  pointed  out  was  the 

7  "About  Play-Acting,"  Forum,  Vol.  26   (Oct.  1898),  pp.  150-151. 

8  "The  Business  of  the  Stage  as  a  Career,"  Cosmopolitan,  Vol.  28  (April,  1900), 
p.  655. 

9  "Some  Lessons  from  the  School  of  Morals,"  Suburban  Sketches   (Boston,   1874), 

P  "3- 

10  "Endowed  Theatres  and  the  American  Stage,"  Forum,  Vol.  14  (Nov.  1892), 
p.  338.  She,  too,  argued  for  a  special  theatre  to  be  backed  by  a  millionaire. 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  795 

paltriness  of  theatrical  criticism  in  the  public  press.  To  be  sure,  some  of 
the  larger  papers,  principally  in  the  East,  had  reporters  who  specialized  in 
discussing  the  drama,  for  example,  William  Winter  (1836- 19 17),  who 
served  on  the  New  York  Tribune  from  1865  to  1909,  or  Laurence  Hutton 
(1843- 1 904),  likewise  located  in  New  York.  Both  of  these  men  have  left 
us  books  valuable  as  source  material,  but  neither  can  be  said  to  have  been 
even  a  Sarcey.  In  most  cases,  the  same  reporter  who  covered  fires  and 
murders  or  baseball  games  was  likely  to  review  the  new  plays  that  came 
to  town,  as  did  Dreiser  during  his  early  newspaper  days  in  Chicago  and 
St.  Louis. 

More  frequently  than  any  of  the  three  troubles  already  mentioned,  the 
star  system  was  invoked  as  a  malign  influence.  A  famous  actor,  like 
Lawrence  Barrett  or  Richard  Mansfield,  was  made  the  center  of  attrac- 
tion, plays  sometimes  being  written  especially  to  show  off  the  qualities 
which  the  public  had  learned  to  like  in  him,  the  other  members  of  the  cast 
being  minor  players  of  little  capacity.  As  is  the  case  today,  a  "big-name" 
actor  or  actress  was  likely  to  make  money  even  with  an  inferior  play  or  a 
poor  supporting  cast.  As  the  railroads  facilitated  touring,  the  travelling 
stars  succeeded  at  the  expense  of  the  resident  players.  By  the  end  of  the 
century  the  stock  companies  had  succumbed  in  most  of  the  larger  cities, 
though  their  number  probably  increased  in  more  rural  areas.  With  the 
extension  of  the  "kerosene  circuits"  "  any  existing  tendency  to  experi- 
ment with  new  plays  declined,  though  local  managers  were  more  than 
pleased  to  be  relieved  of  the  financial  risks  of  running  a  stock  company. 

Ultimately,  the  iniquity  most  often  discussed  was  the  "Theatrical 
Trust."  Managerial  vulgarity  and  greed  had  long  been  considered  most 
responsible  for  current  ills,  and  combinations  in  control  of  chains  of 
theatres  had  existed  earlier,12  but  the  incorporation  in  1896  of  the  Theat- 
rical Syndicate  gave  completest  evidence  that  actors  and  playwrights 
were  really  in  the  grip  of  big  business.  In  that  year,  three  partnerships- 
Nixon  and  Zimmerman  in  Philadelphia,  Klaw  and  Erlanger,  and  Hayman 
and  Frohman,  both  in  New  York— pooled  their  interests  in  various  chains 
of  first-class  theatres  in  order  to  avoid  competition  and  make  more  money. 
They  started  with  about  forty  theatres,  which  had  to  agree  to  take  only 
such  plays  as  the  Syndicate  offered  and  in  return  were  assured  of  an 
unbroken  succession  of  companies  and,  presumably,  better  terms  from  the 
travelling-managers.    In   a   few   years   their   monopoly   snowballed   into 

11  In  1879  there  were  at  least  fifty  touring  companies  and  at  the  end  of  the  century 
ten  times  as  many  (Schlesinger,  Rise  of  the  City,  p.  291  n.). 

12  Arthur  H.  Quinn  mentions  a  beneficent  association  of  managers  in  New  York 
in  the  early  seventies  (A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Civil  War  to 
the  Present  Day,  1927,  Vol.  1,  p.  16).  By  1895  R.  M.  Gulick  was  operating  the 
Columbian  Theatre  in  Boston,  along  with  others  in  Pittsburgh,  Philadelphia,  and 
Brooklyn  (Atherton  Brownell,  "Boston  Theaters  of  To-day,"  Bostonian,  Vol.  2, 
Sept.  1895,  PP-  655-673).  B.  F.  Keith  turned  from  his  circus  to  continuous-performance 
vaudeville  in  1885,  but  his  chain  of  theatres  dates  from  1906. 


796  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

unbelievable  magnitude  as  the  opposition  of  producers  or  actors  proved 
futile.13  Eventually  a  rival  group,  headed  by  the  Shuberts,  and,  more 
important,  a  weakening  within  the  trust  itself  caused  its  power  to  diminish. 
But  at  the  end  of  the  century  it  was  in  command.  Even  when  an  actor  or 
a  producer  was  not  a  minion,  he  found  it  wise  to  allow  Abraham  Lincoln 
Erlanger  to  book  engagements,  for  without  his  services  it  was  all  but 
impossible  to  schedule  a  profitable  tour  of  one-week  stands  in  most  of  the 
larger  cities— from  Boston  to  San  Francisco,  from  New  Orleans  to  St. 
Paul.  Erlanger  saw  to  it  that  no  rivals  received  more  attention  in  the  press 
and  could  usually  arrange  that  no  competing  star  of  great  eminence 
appeared  during  the  same  week  to  divide  the  interest  of  ticket  purchasers. 
Jo  Jefferson  was  one  of  the  few  independents  who  dared  to  play  in  both 
Syndicate  and  non-Syndicate  houses.  "This  situation,"  declared  Norman 
Hapgood  in  1900,  "means  immediately  the  survival  of  the  mediocre.  .  .. 
Our  Syndicate  managers ...  do  not  try  to  reproduce  the  successes  of 
Sudermann,  Hauptmann,  or  Ibsen,  or  to  encourage,  in  any  way  the  sterner 
aspects  of  drama  in  America.  They  dread  anything  austere  and  tragic.  It 
means  to  them  the  same  as  unpleasant  or  dull."  14  Unless  an  unknown 
dramatist  had  a  play  that  was  sure  to  be  sensational,  Charles  Frohman 
would  never  produce  it. 

Almost  as  important  as  theatrical  commercialism  in  thwarting  the 
production  of  native  plays  of  quality  was  the  copyright  situation.  Until 
1 89 1,  when  the  first  American  law  on  international  copyright  went  into 
effect,  any  foreign  play  could  be  used  by  a  producer  without  payment 
of  royalty.  This  fact  of  course  was  most  responsible  for  the  tidal  wave  of 
British,  French,  and  German  plays.  Piracy  was  not  altogether  eliminated 
after  1891,  but  thereafter  foreign  works  appeared  much  less  frequently.  A 
goodly  number  of  European  companies,  and  especially  foreign  stars  such 
as  Sarah  Bernhardt,  were  brought  to  this  country;  at  the  same  time  more 
American  actors  and  troupes  than  ever  before  crossed  the  Atlantic  to 
perform  in  London,  Paris,  and  Berlin.  The  number  of  American  plays 
produced  in  London  was  very  large  indeed,  even  after  1891.  The  situation 
with  regard  to  national  copyright  also  seriously  affected  the  writing  of 
plays,  for  the  penalties  imposed  for  infringements  were  inadequate  to 
protect  a  playwright's  interests.  Professional  dramatists  rarely  published 
their  works,  not  only  because  many  of  their  plays  were  so  indebted  to 
European  dramas  that  they  could  not  be  copyrighted  but  also  because 
great  risk  to  profits  was  involved  even  if  they  were  original. 

Furthermore,  few  new  plays  that  were  successful  on  the  stage  were 
solely  the  products  of  the  playwrights  themselves.  A  "good"  play,  re- 
marked an  experienced  manager  in  1895,  ls  built  in  the  theatre  through 

13  Norman  Hapgood,  "The  Theatrical  Syndicate,"  International  Monthly,  Vol.  1 
(Jan.  1900),  pp.  99-122. 
11  "The  Theatrical  Syndicate,"  pp.  117,  119. 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  797 

conferences  among  author,  manager,  and  chief  actors  and  is  "virtually 
rewritten"  during  its  first  rehearsals.  "Very  little  attention  is  paid  to  the 
literary  form  of  the  dialogue.  It  is  not  necessary  to  do  so." 

Does  [the  playwright]  not  grieve  to  see  his  work  thus  mauled,  cut,  and  portions 
of  it  discarded?  Not  at  all.  By  this  time  [of  dress  rehearsals]  he  has  lost  all 
sentimental  weakness,  and  nearly  all  vanity;  he  accepts  the  situation,  and, 
metaphorically  speaking,  not  only  "says  nothing  and  saws  wood,"  but  also 
helps  to  file  the  saw.  I  am  speaking  of  the  sensible  playwright  who  is  not  above 
his  business,  and  who  is  the  only  play-builder  that  even  gets  as  far  as  a  dress 
rehearsal.15 


In  spite  of  all  such  difficulties  as  have  been  mentioned,  the  writing  of 
dramas  by  Americans  increased  as  the  century  progressed— especially  after 
1 89 1 .  We  have  previously  noted  that  a  number  of  authors  more  important 
in  other  fields  were  at  times  moved  to  an  effort  to  satisfy  the  demands  of 
the  stage— for  example,  Harte,  Clemens,  James,  and  Howells,  among  the 
novelists;  and  Miller  and  Aldrich,  among  the  poets.  The  number  of  closet 
dramas  composed  by  other  poets  is  probably  larger  than  that  of  all  the 
plays  of  the  above-mentioned  combined,  but  little  survives  today  from  the 
various  dramatic  ventures  in  prose  or  verse  which  the  belles-lettrists 
undertook.  If  one  looks  for  a  play  of  the  period  that  may  have  survival 
value  as  literature,  the  most  likely  offering  will  probably  be  found  among 
the  one-act  pieces  which  Howells  published  in  the  magazines.  The  earliest 
of  these,  The  Parlor  Car  (1876),  proved  so  popular  with  amateur  actors 
that  Howells  made  many  other  trials  with  similar  works.  In  his  later  days, 
the  short  plays  which  he  wrote  declined  from  their  highest  peak,  though 
one  of  them,  The  Impossible  (19 10),  may  interest  the  student  of  social 
criticism.  In  it  a  sumptuous  banquet  and  a  bread  line  are  contrasted  in  a 
way  somewhat  reminiscent  of  the  episode  near  the  end  of  Norris's  The 
Octopus.  The  best  of  Howells's  one-act  dramas  comprise  a  cycle  of  twelve 
farces  employing  the  same  set  of  characters,  beginning  with  The  Sleeping 
Car  (1883)  and  ending  with  The  Smoking  Car  (1900).  As  good  an  ex- 
ample as  any  of  these  is  probably  The  Unexpected  Guests  (1893).  The 
series  was  so  successful  with  the  readers  of  Harper's,  who  were  in  the 
habit  of  acting  them  during  the  Christmas  holidays,  that  when  their 
author  was  negotiating  with  the  owners  of  that  magazine  for  a  new 
contract  in  1889,  the  "Christmas  farce"  was  probably  as  important  for 
bargaining  as  the  promise  of  new  novels  from  his  pen.16  Even  when* 

15  Joseph  Brooks,  "How  Successful  Plays  Are  Built,"  Cosmopolitan,  Vol.  19  (June, 
1895),  p.  217.  See  also,  for  example,  Bronson  Howard's  account  of  the  building  of 
The  Banker's  Daughter  as  a  result  of  conferences  among  the  New  York  manager, 
"the  literary  attache  of  the  theatre,"  and  himself  (reprinted  in  Quinn,  American 
Drama,  Vol.  1,  pp.  44-49). 

16  See  the  drafts  of  letters  from  Howells  to  the  Harpers,  Sept.  23  and  Oct.  11,  1889, 
MSS  in  the  Houghton  Library,  Harvard. 


798  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Howells's  farces  are  "dated"  or  border  on  the  slapstick,  as  in  A  Master- 
piece of  Diplomacy  (1894),  amusement  can  still  be  found  in  their  lines, 
and  the  brilliant  dialogue,  his  greatest  asset  as  a  playwright,  would  be  hard 
to  match  elsewhere  in  American  dramas. 

Of  course,  these  short  plays  were  of  little  importance  to  the  professional 
stage,  for  one-act  pieces  could  rarely  be  produced  unless  suited  to  variety 
shows,  bur  several  of  Howells's  farces  were  deemed  sufficiently  profes- 
sional to  warrant  acting  in  theatres  in  London.  The  two  volumes  of  his 
Minor  Dramas  published  in  Edinburgh  in  1907  also  may  indicate  that  their 
merits  were  appreciated  outside  the  United  States.  But  some  of  his  work 
also  appeared  on  the  boards  in  this  country,  not  only  in  adaptations  of  The 
Rise  of  Silas  Lapham  or  of  A  Foregone  Conclusion  but  in  his  translations 
of  Sansone  by  Ippolito  d'Aste  (1874)  or  of  Un  Drama  Nuevo  by  Tamayo 
y  Baus  (entitled  Yorick's  Love,  1878).  The  only  full-length  original  drama 
by  Howells  to  be  produced  was  a  comedy,  A  Counterfeit  Presentment 
(1877),  though  he  wrote  another,  as  well  as  the  libretto  for  a  Gilbert- 
inspired  light  opera.  In  viewing  Howells's  contribution  to  the  theatre,  one 
would  do  well  to  remember  that  his  own  plays  are  of  less  consequence 
than  his  gospel  of  realism,  which  helped  to  inspire  playwrights  like  Har- 
rigan,  Heme,  Thomas,  and  Fitch  in  basing  their  dramas  upon  the  familiar 
life  of  the  American  people. 


The  grounding  of  a  native  tradition  was  one  of  the  more  important 
aspects  of  the  theatrical  history  of  the  century,  and  the  foundations  of  a 
national  drama  had  been  laid  long  before  the  Civil  War.  But  it  was  not 
until  the  seventies  that  general  progress  was  clearly  visible.  In  1892  Bron- 
son  Howard  announced,  without  too  much  exaggeration,  "A  nation  of 
sixty  million  people  has  suddenly  awakened,  within  less  than  fifteen  years, 
to  a  keen  interest  in  seeing  its  own  life  and  character  upon  the  stage."  17 
Among  the  evidences  of  the  change,  he  thought,  were  not  only  the  grow- 
ing concern  of  managers  to  have  European  plays  "Americanized"  before 
production  but  also  the  popularity  of  "semi-variety  performances  filled 
with  hits  upon  American  social  life"  and  "full  of  neat  character  touches." 
Tony  Pastor's  Opera  House  in  New  York  City  (1865-1908)  is  said  to  have 
established  variety  entertainment  in  the  United  States,  but  the  appetite  for 
homely  native  material  was  due  less  to  the  encouragement  of  Pastor  than 
to  the  genius  of  an  actor-manager  named  Edward  Harrigan  (1845-1911). 
His  popular  songs  and  sketches,  often  sung  or  performed  by  himself  and 
his  long-time  partner  Tony  Hart,- endeared  him  to  thousands  of  devotees. 
Of  the  sixty  or  more  plays  or  playlets  listed  under  his  name  in  the  copy- 
right record,  unfortunately,  none  is  available  in  print.  Who's  Got  de  Flo? 

17  A  communication  to  the  New  York  World,  reprinted  in  Current  Literature,  Vol. 
9  (Feb.  1892),  pp.  294-300. 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  799 

or,  Scenes  in  the  South  Carolina  Legislature  (c.  1874)  is  an  illustration  of 
timely  use  of  Negro  humor  in  his  burlesques,  but  none  of  his  Negro  por- 
trayals surpassed  in  popularity  his  depictions  of  the  shanty  Irish  of  New 
York.  Harrigan's  song  "The  Aiulligan  Guard"  (1873)  furnished  the  germ 
for  a  whole  cycle  of  Mulligan  activities— and  McSorley,  O'Finnigan, 
O'Brien,  and  the  Lord  Mayor  of  Dublin  offered  their  fun,  too.  Unpreten- 
tious as  the  material  was,  it  fitted  into  the  tradition  of  American  humor 
and  helped  furnish  a  much-needed  local  tonic  to  the  theatre  of  the 
country. 

Before  Harrigan  was  a  stage  attraction,  the  Civil  War  itself  had,  of 
course,  induced  playwrights  to  deal  with  its  exciting  events;  but  no  plays 
concerned  with  the  conflict  and  written  during  the  sixties  have  a  value 
compared  with  that  of  several  which  came  later.  William  Gillette's  Held 
by  the  Enemy  (1886),  produced  with  great  success  in  London  as  well  as 
at  home,  was  perhaps  the  herald  of  the  new  batch  of  Civil  War  dramas 
that  appeared  late  in  the  century  and  included  such  favorites  as  the  same 
author's  Secret  Service,  Bronson  Howard's  Shenandoah,  David  Belasco's 
The  Heart  of  Maryland  (1895),  and  Clyde  Fitch's  Barbara  Frietchie 
(1899).  Inferior  to  these  are  a  number  of  other  war  plays  that  appeared 
continuously  throughout  the  period.  Possibly  the  most  realistic  of  all  the 
Civil  War  plays  of  the  era  was  Heme's  The  Reverend  Griffith  Davenport 
(1899),  if  one  may  safely  judge  by  its  fourth  act,  which  appears  to  be  all 
of  it  that  survives.18 

The  Far  West,  which  touched  off  so  much  activity  in  the  sphere  of 
local-color  fiction,  was  also  productive  of  dramas.  In  Across  the  Con- 
tinent (1870),  by  J.  J.  McCloskey  and  Oliver  D.  Byron,  the  setting  was 
shifted  from  New  York  to  a  station  of  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad,  where 
a  rousing  climax  brought  Chief  Black  Cloud  and  his  warriors  in  for  an 
assault.19  The  older  frontier  continued  to  attract  playwrights,  with  such 
results  as  Kit,  the  Arkansas  Traveler  (1870),  by  T.  B.  De  Walden,  or 
Davy  Crockett  (1872),  by  Frank  H.  Murdoch.  The  latter  proved  very 
popular,  with  its  heroic  scene  of  Davy  barring  the  door  of  a  cabin  against 
a  pack  of  wolves.20 

Somewhat  more  deserving  of  mention  is  Horizon  (1871),  by  Augustin 
Daly,  which  Professor  Quinn  has  called  uthe  first  of  a  series  of  plays  which 
owe  their  inspiration  to  Bret  Harte."  21  As  has  already  been  mentioned, 
Harte,  either  by  himself  or  in  collaboration,  tried  several  times  to  make 
his  West  additionally  profitable  by  dramatizing  various  of  his  tales;  but 

18  Printed  in  Early  Plays  of  James  A.  Heme,  ed.  Arthur  H.  Quinn  (Princeton, 
1940) . 

19  Printed  in  Davy  Crockett  &  Other  Plays,  ed.  Isaac  Goldberg  and  Hubert  HerTner 
(Princeton,  1940). 

20  Davy  Crockett  &  Other  Plays. 

21  Horizon  will  most  readily  be  found  in  American  Plays,  ed.  Allan  G.  Halline 
([1935]). 


800  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

his  only  substantial  recompense  came  from  Sue  (1896),  based  on  "The 
Judgment  of  Bolinas  Plain"  and  written  with  the  help  of  T.  Edgar  Pern- 
berton.  Joaquin  Miller's  The  Danites  in  the  Sierras  (1877)  was  more 
successful  than  any  of  Harte's  earlier  dramatic  ventures  and  led  the  poet 
to  continue  for  a  while  as  dramatist  of  a  glamorous  West.  Professionals 
like  Bartley  Campbell  (1843-88),  however,  reaped  more  of  a  harvest  with 
such  offerings  as  My  Partner  (1879),  which  had  to  do  with  gold  miners 
in  the  days  of  1869.  "Border  plays,"  in  which  the  Indians  tended  to  give 
place  to  miners  or  bandits,  continued  to  be  acted  in  the  better  houses  from 
time  to  time  throughout  the  eighties  and  nineties  but  usually  reached  their 
fittest  audiences  in  the  "ten-cent  theatres."  "Wild  West,"  however,  soon 
came  to  signify  something  different  from  what  we  associate  with  Bret 
Harte— namely,  a  kind  of  circus  identified  with  Buffalo  Bill  and  his  imita- 
tors. When  that  eminent  showman  copyrighted  his  dramatic  spectacle  in 
1883  he  defined  it  as  "Wild  West;  or,  life  among  the  red  men  and  road 
agents  on  the  plains  and  prairies,  an  equine  dramatic  exposition  on  grass, 
or  under  canvas,  of  the  adventures  of  frontiersmen  and  cowboys."  With 
the  added  attraction  of  a  couple  of  the  Indian  chieftains  who  had  taken 
part  in  the  massacre  of  Custer's  troops  a  few  years  before,  Buffalo  Bill's 
"equine  dramatic  exposition"  soon  proved  that  the  West  was  indeed  a 
happy  hunting  ground  for  entertainers.  Three  years  after  it  was  registered 
in  the  copyright  office,  a  "Wild  West  Burlesque  Show"  was. also  copy- 
righted—the surest  proof  of  popularity.  From  the  plays  of  the  Gilded  Age 
and  the  equine  spectacles  of  Buffalo  Bill  the  transition  to  the  "horse-opera" 
movie  was  direct,  and  easy. 

Certain  other  tendencies  in  the  use  of  native  material  which  have  been 
noticed  in  connection  with  the  history  of  our  fiction  are  also  manifest  in 
the  theatre.  Like  the  West,  the  South  had  a  share  of  attention  on  the  stage, 
and  in  the  nineties  the  fondness  for  the  romance  of  American  history  was 
quickly  reflected  on  the  boards.22  The  local  bumpkin,  beginning  with  the 
stage  Yankee,  was  of  such  long  standing  that  one. can  scarcely  argue  the 
effect  of  the  local-color  movement  upon  the  development  of  stage  per- 
sonalities of  the  yokel  type;  but  at  the  end  of  the  century  there  was  a 
distinct  interest  in  the  drama  of  rural  life,  and  high-class  comedy  could 
on  occasion  achieve  a  measure  of  success  simply  by  depending  on  native 
character.  Bronson  Howard,  in  the  communication  already  quoted,  ex- 
pressed his  belief  that  the  ruin  of  Wallack's  Theatre— it  closed  in  1888— 
was  caused  by  a  failure  to  shift  from  European  material  to  American.  If 
so,  the  date  is  important  in  marking  a  new  era  in  the  history  of  a  native 
drama. 

22  The  copyright  records  show  under  the  title  Virginia  such  entries  as:  "A  drama 
of  the  times  that  tried  men's  souls,"  by  John  W.  Sherman  (1892);  uAn  original  drama 
of  the  Civil  War,"  by  Forbes  Hecrmans  (1890);  "Partly  historical  drama,"  by  H. 
Wagner  (1900).  A  glance  at  the  titles  beginning  with  "Southern"  will  also  be 
illuminating. 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  801 

The  playhouse  that  took  over  as  the  leading  center  of  dramatic  per- 
formances in  the  United  States  was  Daly's.  With  the  "big  four"  stars  in 
its  company— John  Drew,  James  Lewis,  Mrs.  G.  H.  Gilbert,  and  Ada 
Rehan— Daly's  Theatre  at  Broadway  and  Thirtieth  Street  was  capable  of 
making  even  a  third-rate  play  brilliant  with  expert  performance.  Its  first 
nights  were  attended  by  the  most  fashionable  New  Yorkers,  and  country 
visitors  were  almost  as  eager  to  witness  a  performance  within  its  walls  as 
they  were  to  see  an  ocean  liner  in  the  harbor.23  John  Augustin  Daly  (1838- 
99),  the  manager  of  the  illustrious  troupe,  himself  adapted  many  a  play 
at  a  time  when  waspish  Ambrose  Bierce  defined  "dramatist"  as  "one  who 
adapts  plays  from  the  French,"  though  he  levied  on  the  Germans  as  well.24 
But  Daly  deserves  recognition  more  for  his  managerial  devotion  to  perfec- 
tion of  performance  and  to  occasional  encouragement  of  native  talent. 
Before  plays  by  Americans  could  successfully  compete  with  foreign 
dramas  he  helped  his  countrymen  as  well  as  he  could,  and  there  was  no 
better  stroke  of  fortune  for  the  cause  of  the  native  drama  than  his  succeed- 
ing in  1888  to  the  place  formerly  held  by  Lester  Wallack— excepting  the 
passage  of  an  international  copyright  act  and  the  tightening  of  the  penal- 
ties against  local  piracy,  both  of  which,  fortunately,  came  a  few  years 
later. 

Several  dramatists  also  helped  matters  by  writing  plays  superior  to  the 
average  of  mediocrity  that  characterized  the  American  stage.  While  many 
of  their  products  were  no  more  than  adaptations,  and  even  their  most 
celebrated  original  works  have  latterly  failed  to  reappear  in  the  theatres, 
there  can  be  no  question  of  the  comparative  excellence  of  James  A.  Heme, 
Bronson  Howard,  William  Gillette,  Augustus  Thomas,  and  Clyde  Fitch. 
All  professionals,  these  men  wrote  a  number  of  dramas  which  are  artfully 
stitched  rather  than  merely  basted.  But  a  full  appreciation  of  their  value 
demands  actual  stage  performance;  their  works  do  not  make  the  sort  of 
dramatic  literature  most  enjoyable  to  a  reader.  Discussion  of  Thomas  and 
Fitch  will  be  reserved  for  later  pages  in  the  present  volume,  since  their 
worthiest  contribution  came  in  the  twentieth  century,  but  the  reader 
should  be  reminded  that  both  were  very  active  in  the  nineties. 


Historically,  the  most  important  of  these  playwrights  was  probably 
Bronson  Crocker  Howard  (1842-1908),  whose  success  with  several  social 
comedies  and  melodramas  employing  native  characters  is  said  to  have 
"established  the  fact  of  the  American  Drama's  existence"  at  a  time  when 
the  home  product  was  spurned  as  either  naive  or  unremunerative.  He  was 

23  George  C.  D.  Odell,  Annals  of  the  New  York  Stage  [1888-91],  Vol.  14  (1945), 
p.  1. 

24  Some  of  Daly's  adaptations,  as  well  as  a  list  of  his  plays,  will  be  found  in  Man 
and  Wife  &  Other  Plays,  ed.  Catherine  Sturtevant  (Princeton,  1942). 


8o2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  first  of  our  dramatists  to  make  a  good  living  by  his  craft.  A  practical 
man  who  recognized  the  demands  of  the  playhouse  and  readily  conformed 
to  suggestions  of  managers  or  stars,  he  nonetheless  was  conscientious  in 
constructing  his  works.  All  of  them  are  well  within  the  conventions  of 
an  era  disposed  to  admire  Scribe,  Sardou,  and  Robertson  and,  in  our  view 
today,  are  cursed  by  adherence  to  the  uaside',  and  by  the  obviousness  of 
their  psychology— the  common  failings  of  the  drama  of  the  period. 
Howard's  later  plays  often  prove  that  he  advanced  in  trimness  and  close- 
ness of  dialogue  and  are  possibly  more  subtle  than  his  earliest,  but  he  was 
never  influenced  by  the  newer  methods  of  Ibsen,  Pinero,  or  other  con- 
temporary realists.  His  last  play,  Kate,  published  in  half-novelized  form 
in  1906,  is  as  romantic  as  anything  he  ever  wrote.  His  first  success  was 
scored  with  Saratoga,  staged  by  Augustin  Daly  in  1870,  a  farce-comedy 
good  enough  to  be  adapted  for  performance  in  London  as  Brighton  and  in 
Berlin  as  Seine  Erste  und  Einzige  Liebe.  It  can  be  appreciated  only  in 
historical  perspective,  for  its  plot,  having  to  do  with  a  hero  engaged  to 
four  girls  at  the  same  time,  is  not  relieved  by  its  typed  characterization. 
Nevertheless,  it  contained  a  few  amusing  situations,  gave  signs  of  a  sophis- 
tication unusual  among  native  dramas,  and  appeared  at  a  critical  juncture. 
In  a  way,  Saratoga  is  a  notable  landmark  in  the  history  of  the  American 
drama. 

Howard  was  born  in  Detroit,  of  which  city  his  father  once  served  as 
mayor.  He  never  attended  college  but  instead  became  a  journalist.  While 
reporting  for  the  Detroit  Free  Press,  he  made  his  first  trials  at  playwriting, 
and  one  of  them  was  produced  by  a  local  stock  company  in  1864.  The 
next  year,  he  moved  to  New  York,  working  on  the  Tribune,  the  Evening 
Post,  and  other  papers,  and  carried  forward  dramatic  efforts  with  greater 
earnestness  than  ever.  The  good  fortune  that  blessed  Saratoga  was  not 
substantial  enough  to  justify  abandoning  newspaper  work  altogether,  and 
as  late  as  1876  he  was  reporting  the  Centennial  celebration  for  the  press. 
But  by  that  year  Howard  had  had  three  more  plays  produced,  and  his 
status  as  a  professional  playwright  was  no  doubt  recognized.  Marriage  in 
1880  to  the  sister  of  the  manager  of  the  Criterion  Theatre  in  London  allied 
him  somewhat  with  the  British  stage— an  excellent  means  of  fortifying  his 
reputation  at  home— and  for  many  years  he  maintained  a  residence  in  St. 
John's  Wood,  London,  as  well  as  in  New  Rochelle.  The  principal  effect 
of  his  increasing  knowledge  of  Europe  was  a  growing  relish  for  "interna- 
tional"  situations.  Like  Henry  James,  he  took  his  Americans  abroad  again 
and  again,  but  his  preoccupation  with  native  character  remained  more 
resolute.  Furthermore,  in  Aristocracy  (1892)  he  satirized  the  conventional 
subservience  to  British  manners  in  our  upper  society  and  often  caricatured 
European  patricians  in  much  the  same  fashion  as  did  Harold  Frederic.  One 
of  Out  (i iris  ( 1885)  illustrates  the  exploitation  of  the  differences  between 
the  marital  customs  of  the  French  and  the  Americans,  a  popular  theme  at  a 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  803 

time  when  the  export  market  for  millionaires'  daughters  was  thriving.25 
Among  Howard's  most  popular  dramas  were  The  Banker's  Daughter 
(1878),  a  revision  of  an  earlier  play,  Young  Mrs.  Winthrop  (1882),  The 
Henrietta  (1887),  and  Shenandoah  (1888).  The  Henrietta  is  probably  the 
best  of  his  several  satires  on  business  and  is  more  amusing  to  read  than 
most.26  Like  many  of  his  others,  this  drama  is  brisk  in  action,  contains  a 
few  smart  speeches,  and  is  tidily  organized  for  stage  purposes.  One  scene, 
in  which  a  "big"  financier  finds  the  ticker  tape  more  engrossing  than 
courtship,  may  possibly  have  furnished  Eugene  O'Neill  with  the  idea  for 
a  similar  situation  in  Marco  Millions.  Howard's  farce  provokes  mirth  with 
its  absurdities  but  surrenders  satire  to  promote  immediate  theatrical  effec- 
tiveness, and,  like  Marco  Millions,  is  decidedly  "dated." 

The  same  is  true  of  Shenandoah,21  which  bears  in  addition  a  burden  of 
many  outmoded  melodramatic  devices.  This  play  opens  in  Charleston  with 
the  firing  on  Fort  Sumter  and  later  takes  advantage  of  Sheridan's  cam- 
paign in  the  Shenandoah  Valley  but  relies  more  on  time-honored  tricks  of 
melodrama  than  scenes  of  military  action.  In  reading  it  one  admires  only 
the  skill  with  which  every  ounce  of  theatrical  effect  is  squeezed  from  the 
conventional  situations.  On  the  stage,  however,  it  had  a  long  and  dis- 
tinguished history.  Firmer  in  dependence  on  reality  are  Howard's  one-act 
comedy  Old  Love  Letters  (1878),  in  which  a  man  and  a  woman  more  or 
less  naturally  revive  the  romance  of  their  youth,  and  Young  Mrs.  Win- 
throp.28 This  latter  ends  with  a  reconciliation  between  a  husband  immersed 
in  business  and  his  neglected  wife  and  is  remarkable  for  its  restraint.  In 
the  hands  of  one  of  Howard's  contemporaries  the  plot  would  have  become 
maudlin,  for  the  breach  between  the  couple  is  bridged  by  the  grave  of 
their  little  daughter.  There  is,  however,  no  great  profundity  in  charac- 
terization. If  Howard  were  living  today,  he  would  possibly  be  a  prominent 
scenario-writer  in  Hollywood;  his  bag  of  theatrical  tricks  was  bulging, 
and  he  had  the  art  to  employ  them  in  a  well-molded  product,  pretty  sure 
to  entertain  the  average  theatregoer. 


In  turning  to  James  A.  Heme  (1 839-1901)  we  encounter  the  most 
realistic  playwright  of  the  period.  Son  of  an  Irish  immigrant,  almost 
wholly  self-educated,  he  made  his  first  appearance  as  an  actor  in  Troy, 
New  York,  in  1859,  when  he  was  paid  six  dollars  a  week  for  enacting  the 
role  of  George  Shelby  in  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin.  In  one  stock  company  after 
the  other— in  Albany,  Baltimore,  Washington,  San  Francisco— he  learned 

25  Printed,  along  with  Hurricanes  (1878),  Old  Love  Letters,  The  Banker's  Daughter, 
Baron  Rudolph  (1881),  Knave  and  Queen  (unproduced),  and  a  bib.  of  his  works,  in 
The  Banker's  Daughter  &  Other  Plays,  ed.  Allan  G.  Halline  (Princeton,  1 94 1 ) . 

26  Printed  in  Halline,  American  Plays. 

27  Printed  in  Representative  American  Plays,  ed.  Arthur  H.  Quinn  (1930). 

28  Published  by  Samuel  French  ([1899]). 


8o4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  ways  of  the  troupers  and  memorized  the  lines  of  the  repertoire  of 
favorite  pieces.  Like  almost  every  actor  of  the  time,  he  also  polished  his 
efforts  with  the  diction  of  Shakespeare,  then  honored  in  the  performance 
as  never  before  and  never  since.  Heme's  earliest  plays  were  composed  in 
the  seventies  in  San  Francisco  in  collaboration  with  David  Belasco,  and 
one  of  them,  Hearts  of  Oak  (1879),  brought  both  fame  and  fortune.  It 
is  a  "tear-jerker,"  concerned  with  a  self-sacrificing  sailor  and  gristmill 
operator  of  Marblehead,  Massachusetts.  It  profited  also  from  the  sure-fire 
humor  called  forth  by  rough  males  playing  with  a  baby,  and  its  general 
emotional  formula  was  that  of  Heme's,  and  the  public's,  beloved  Dickens. 
As  is  the  case  with  nearly  all  of  Heme's  plays,  it  lacks  an  old-fashioned 
villain,  the  speech  of  yokels  is  fairly  natural,  and  the  stage  directions  are 
relatively  free  from  artificiality.29  Two  of  the  roles  were  designed  to  be 
acted  by  Heme  and  his  second  wife  Katherine,  both  of  whom  were  chary 
of  mouthing  the  customary  swash.  After  buying  out  Belasco's  interest,  the 
couple  toured  the  country  with  the  drama  for  the  next  seven  years  and 
netted  sufficient  income  to  retire  to  a  comfortable  cottage  near  Boston. 
Heme's  next  piece  was  The  Minute  Men  of  7774-/775  (1886),  a  melo- 
drama of  the  Revolution— a  thoroughly  romantic  and  conventional  play 
which  nevertheless  failed  to  be  a  financial  success.  A  subsequent  work, 
first  named  Mary,  the  Fishermen's  Child  and  later  Drifting  Apart  (1888), 
dealt  with  the  disastrous  effect  of  drink  on  a  Gloucester  fisherman  and 
employed  a  scene  in  which  the  drunkard  dreams  of  the  starvation  of  his 
family.30  The  starkness  of  the  material  was  incompatible  with  the  dream 
medium,  and  the  drama  was  with  difficulty  kept  on  the  stage  for  only  two 
years,  mostly  in  cheap  houses  and  for  one-night  stands. 

Hamlin  Garland  happened  to  see  a  performance  of  Drifting  Apart;  was 
captivated  by  the  colloquial  virtues  of  the  piece,  as  well  as  by  the  natural 
quality  of  the  acting; 31  sought  out  the  Hemes;  and  thereafter  became  a 
close  friend.  When  the  actor  proved  to  be  a  reformer  at  heart,  interested 
in  Herbert  Spencer,  impressionism,  Ibsen,  and  the  other  novelties  so  excit- 
ing to  the  young  Aliddle  Westerner,  he  introduced  his  new  friend  to 
Howells  and  to  B.  O.  Flower,  editor  of  The  Arena,  in  which  Garland  was 
publishing  some  of  his  exposures  of  the  evils  besetting  the  farm  belt.  Best 
of  all  in  Garland's  eyes  was  probably  the  ardor  of  Heme's  acceptance  of 
the  doctrines  of  Henry  George  and  his  later  willingness  to  risk  his  reputa- 
tion with  theatrical  managers  by  making  speeches  in  behalf  of  the  "single 
tax."  The  result  of  the  new  association  with  realists  and  crusaders  was 
partially  exhibited  in  Heme's  Shore  Acres,  the  most  successful  of  all  his 

29  Printed  in  Shore  Acres  and  Other  Plays,  rev.  and  ed.  Mrs.  James  A.  Heme 
([1928]),  along  with  Sag  Harbor  and  a  prefatory  biographical  sketch  written  by 
Heme's  daughter  Julie. 

•'50  Printed  in  The  Early  Plays  of  James  A.  Heme,  along  with  Within  an  Inch  of 
His  Life,  The  Minute  Men,  and  the  fragment  of  Griffith  Davenport. 

31  Garland,  Roadside  Meetings  (1930),  Chap.  VII. 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  805 

works.  This  drama  was  started  in  1888,  again  with  the  New  England  sea- 
coast  as  setting— near  Bar  Harbor,  Alaine.  But  before  the  first  draft  was 
finished  a  more  sombre  plot  clamored  for  expression. 

Tolstoi,  Zola,  Ibsen,  and  Sudermann  were,  according  to  Heme's  daugh- 
ter, "greatly  to  his  taste";  and  the  new  play  was  to  be  a  grim  study  of 
marital  infidelity.  Ibsen  perhaps  furnished  the  idea  of  the  heroine's  sud- 
denly going  blind  as  a  result  of  glaucoma.  Named  Margaret  Fleming,  it 
was  tried  out  in  Lynn,  Massachusetts,  in  July,  1 890,  but  was  too  shocking 
for  the  managers  either  in  New  York  or  Boston.  Almost  a  year  later,  it 
was  produced  again  in  a  small  concert  hall  in  Boston  where  Howells, 
Garland,  Sarah  Jewett,  and  Mary  Wilkins  joined  in  the  applause;  but 
revivals  thereafter  were  fitful  and  few.  A  conciliatory  final  act  was  at 
length  substituted  for  the  original  one  ending  in  a  police  court,  but  even 
that  compromise  failed  to  satisfy  either  critics  or  public.  As  we  now  have 
it,  Margaret  Fleming  survives  in  a  revised  form,  reproduced  years  later 
from  memory  by  Mrs.  Heme.32  In  its  present  revised  form,  it  is  a  power- 
ful problem  play  unequalled  in  realism  by  any  other  known  American 
drama  of  its  century.  The  melodramatic  incident  of  a  wife's  suckling  the 
illegitimate  offspring  of  her  husband  and  her  maid's  sister  is  perfectly  con- 
sistent with  the  character  of  the  heroine  as  Heme  conceived  it,  and  her 
final  reconciliation  with  her  erring  spouse  is  likewise  impeccable.  The 
suddenness  of  the  woman's  blindness,  though  somewhat  bothersome,  is 
nevertheless  admissible  as  a  pathological  possibility. 

Having  proved  beyond  peradventure  that  such  strong  meat  as  Margaret 
Fleming  was  not  to  be  stomached  by  his  audiences,  Heme  wrote  a  trivial 
Irish  comedy  to  order  and  moved  to  New  York  as  stage  director  for  Klaw 
and  Erlanger.  Meanwhile,  he  had  finished  Shore  Acres  but  could  find  no 
producer  for  it.  Not  until  the  spring  of  1892  was  it  given  a  performance, 
in  Chicago.  The  reaction  at  first  was  anything  but  promising,  but  before 
long  the  play  became  phenomenally  popular  everywhere  and  continued 
to  draw  large  houses  for  a  half-dozen  years.  Long  afterwards  it  was  a 
staple  of  the  stock  repertory.  The  chief  reason  for  the  success  of  Shore 
Acres  was  the  character  of  a  self-sacrificing,  humorous  old  farmer  Uncle 
Nat,  the  role  enacted  by  Heme  himself.  The  old  man,  after  a  fight  with 
his  irate  brother,  staggers  up  the  stairs  of  a  lighthouse  to  keep  the  beacon 
burning  during  a  storm  and  uses  his  war  pension  to  pay  off  the  mortgage 
on  the  ancestral  home  but,  incredible  as  it  may  sound,  is  nevertheless  a 

32  First  published  in  1930  by  Quinn,  Representative  American  Plays.  For  an  account 
of  its  performance  in  Boston,  see  Garland,  Roadside  Meetings,  pp.  75-78.  The  potential 
influence  of  Ibsen  is  considered  by  Dorothy  S.  Bucks  and  Arthur  H.  Nethercot, 
"Ibsen  and  Heme's  Margaret  Fleming"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  17  (Jan.  1946),  pp.  311-333; 
and  by  Quinn  in  his  reply,  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  19  (May,  1947),  pp.  171-177.  For  Ibsen's 
vogue  in  America,  see  Annette  Anderson,  "Ibsen  in  America,"  Scandinavian  Stud, 
and  Notes,  Vol.  14  (Feb.-May,  1937),  pp.  63-109,  1 15-155.  Ibsen  was  performed  in 
English  as  early  as  1882  in  Milwaukee  and  1883  in  Louisville  (Einar  I.  Haugen,  "Ibsen 
in  America,"  Journal  of  Eng.  and  Ger.  Phil.,  Vol.  33,  July,  1934,  pp.  396-420). 


8o6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

pretty  authentic  specimen  of  the  Maine  rustic.  In  spite  of  its  sentimental 
and  melodramatic  touches,  the  play  contains  a  store  of  homely  American 
actuality,  even  a  detailed  account  of  the  roasting  of  the  Christmas  turkey. 

The  Civil  War  play,  Griffith  Davenport,  which  followed  was  based  on 
a  novel  and  failed  to  hold  the  boards  long.  It  was  succeeded  by  Heme's 
last  drama,  Sag  Harbor  (1899),  originally  intended  to  be  a  revision  of 
Hearts  of  Oak,  which  it  resembles  in  several  aspects  of  the  motivating 
situation.  Certain  themes  from  Heme's  older  plays  recur  in  this  final  work; 
and  its  merit,  once  again,  is  due  in  great  measure  to  accurate  representa- 
tion of  village  life— in  this  case  a  picturesque  old  whaling  port  of  Long 
Island.  Real  as  the  local  speech  and  manners  are,  the  play  is,  however,  too 
"talky"  and  diffuse.  A  comparison  of  Sag  Harbor  with  Hearts  of  Oak 
will  reveal  how  greatly  the  playwright  had  advanced  in  the  way  of  sharing 
Howells's  love  of  "poor,  lowly  life." 

In  a  way,  Heme  illustrates  the  application  of  the  qualities  of  local-color 
fiction  to  the  drama.  His  better  efforts  were  largely  a  combination  of  senti- 
ment, humor,  and  faithful  reproduction  of  humble  sailors  and  rustics.  Like 
Mary  Wilkins  Freeman,  he  is  to  be  remembered  as  an  honest  recorder  of 
commonplace  village  life.  But  in  Margaret  Fleming,  his  greatest  play,  he 
made  a  singularly  bold  venture  in  the  direction  of  advanced  realism.  It 
stands  apart  not  only  in  the  list  of  Heme's  works  but  in  the  history  of  the 
drama  of  its  period. 


William  Hooker  Gillette  (1855-1937)  furnishes  another  illustration  of 
the  American  playwright  who  rose  higher  than  the  prevailing  mediocrity. 
In  order  to  become  an  actor,  he  passed  up  the  college  education  expected 
of  the  son  of  a  United  States  Senator  from  Connecticut,  and  at  the  age  of 
twenty  showed  his  handsome  face  before  the  footlights  in  the  minor 
theatres.  Two  years  later  he  made  his  first  New  York  appearance,  in  The 
Gilded  Age.  From  time  to  time,  while  acting  in  New  York  or  Boston,  he 
attended  classes  at  City  College,  Boston  University,  or  the  Massachusetts 
Institute  of  Technology,  and  always  had  a  weakness  for  engineering  and 
architecture.  It  was  not  until  the  eighties  that  he  began  making  plays,  and 
despite  the  fact  that  he  either  wrote  or  adapted  about  twenty  of  full 
iength,  he  is  remembered  more  as  an  actor  than  as  a  dramatist.  The  role  of 
Sherlock  Holmes,  in  which  he  was  seen  over  a  period  of  thirty  years,  was 
so  closely  identified  with  him  that  the  illustrators  who  have  depicted  the 
noted  sleuth  have  borrowed  the  costume  which  Gillette  adopted  for  his 
portrayal,  from  helmet-hat  down.  In  19 15  he  appeared  in  a  moving  picture 
as  Holmes  but  has  since  been  outdone  in  that  medium  by  the  suavities  of 
Basil  Rathbone. 

Fittingly  enough  for  so  studious  a  Thespian,  his  first  play  was  a  treat- 
ment of  an  academic,  The  Professor  (1881),  in  which  he  himself  played 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  807 

the  lead.  Its  success,  while  distinctly  gratifying,  was  surpassed  by  that  of 
a  second  drama,  Esmeralda  (1881),  based  on  a  short  story  by  Frances 
Hodgson  Burnett  (1 849-1924)  and  written  in  collaboration  with  her.  One 
act  is  laid  in  rural  North  Carolina,  the  others  in  Paris;  and  the  flavor  is 
sentimental,  as  one  would  expect  of  the  brain  child  of  the  author  of  Little 
Lord  Fanntleroy.  Among  the  five  other  dramas  derived  from  fiction  in 
which  Gillette  had  a  hand,  one  was  She  (1887),  based  on  Rider  Haggard's 
sensational  story,  another,  Robert  Elsmere  (1889),  from  Mrs.  Ward's  best 
seller,  and  a  third  Sherlock  Holmes  (1899).  This  last  provided  the  famous 
detective,  his  friend  Watson,  and  the  criminal  Moriarty  with  adventures 
unknown  to  Conan  Doyle  and  was  the  most  popular  of  all.33  Gillette 
showed  himself  to  be  a  true  son  of  the  age  also  in  that  he  made  adaptations 
of  a  half-dozen  plays  by  French  and  German  dramatists.  His  second  orig- 
inal work  was  Held  by  the  Enemy  (1886),  considered  to  be  "the  first 
important  drama  of  the  Civil  War."  The  setting  is  in  a  Southern  city,  and 
the  plot  involves  rivalry  for  the  affections  of  the  heroine  among  a  Con- 
federate lieutenant  who  is  her  cousin  and  two  officers  of  the  Union  army 
in  possession  of  the  town.  The  cousin,  who  acts  as  a  spy  and  is  seemingly 
shot  to  death  when  he  escapes  from  prison,  rather  miraculously  still  re- 
mains alive,  thus  providing  the  more  gallant  of  the  two  officers  with  a 
second  opportunity  to  spare  his  life. 

Almost  a  decade  later,  Gillette  completed  a  much  better  spy  drama  with 
a  Civil  War  setting,  the  celebrated  Secret  Service  (1895),  h^s  most  impor- 
tant play.  For  this  he  chose  as  the  locale  Richmond  in  the  last  days  of  its 
siege  and  made  the  hero  a  daring  Union  officer  who  has  cleverly  palmed 
himself  off  as  Captain  Thorne  of  the  Confederate  army,  in  order  to  tele- 
graph false  orders  to  the  Rebel  forces  just  at  the  moment  when  the 
Yankees  plan  their  final  assault.  The  first  two  acts  furnish  a  good  picture 
of  the  feverish  activities  within  the  home  of  a  Confederate  general  as  life 
is  disrupted  by  the  beleaguerment  of  the  city  and  reveal  the  sincere  affec- 
tion existing  between  the  unsuspecting  daughter  of  the  family  and  the 
handsome  Thorne.  But  when  the  word  for  action  arrives,  the  hero  spares 
no  efforts  to  carry  out  his  duties,  and  in  the  exciting  third  act  neatly  baf- 
fles the  counter-intelligence,  calmly  smoking  a  cigar  while  tapping  out 
a  false  despatch  from  the  central  telegraphic  bureau  of  the  Southern  gov- 
ernment. The  action  is  so  swift  and  unexpected  that  implausibilities  are 
readily  lost  sight  of,  and  the  suspense  is  sustained  at  a  very  high  pitch. 
The  final  scene  of  the  spy's  failing  to  complete  his  mission  because  of 
gratitude  to  the  loved  one  who  has  helped  save  his  life  might  well  have 
ended  the  play  on  a  fairly  convincing  plane.  But  Gillette  added  a  very 
improbable  fourth  act,  to  supply  further  excitement  and  to  allow  for  a 
potential  happy  ending.  He  aiso  gave  Thorne  one  speech  of  antiquated 

33  Printed  in  1900  and  also  in  a  rev.  version,  with  an  Intro,  by  Vincent  Starrett 
(Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1935). 


8o8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

heroics  which  violates  the  naturalness  that  otherwise  prevails  in  the 
dialogue.  Secret  Service  with  all  its  faults  is,  nevertheless,  of  a  high  order 
among  dramas  of  its  sort.34  Its  long-continued  appearance  on  the  stage 
with  Gillette  as  the  shrewd,  level-headed  spy,  admired  as  well  as  feared 
by  his  enemies,  made  Sherlock  Holmes  almost  inevitable.  It  helped  to 
produce  theatrical  history  by  demonstrating  how  easily  good  acting  could 
be  substituted  for  the  conventional  "asides." 

In  Electricity  (iqio)  Gillette  also  approximated  modernity  in  some  of 
the  material  which  he  used,  though  the  play  falls  as  far  short  of  Secret 
Service  as  any  of  his  other  dramas.  Electricity  is  a  comedy  which  degen- 
erates into  a  poor  farce  but,  in  the  mood  of  the  muckraking  period,  inci- 
dentally denounces  corporate  greed  and  the  idleness  of  the  rich.  More 
notably,  it  makes  capital  of  the  wiring  of  houses,  then  a  novelty  on  the 
stage  as  in  life.35  In  his  latest  efforts  as  playwright  Gillette  suffered  from 
the  effect  of  being  typed  by  the  public  and  returned  to  plots  concerned 
with  a  cool  character  surmounting  the  difficulties  imposed  by  his  oppo- 
nents. Except  for  his  one  spy  drama— and  that  with  an  improbable  final 
act— nothing  of  his  work  seems  recoverable,  but  his  qualities  as  an  actor 
will  be  remembered  as  long  as  the  generation  who  saw  him  as  Thorne 
or  Sherlock  Holmes  is  still  alive.  What  another  generation  will  think  of 
him  is  another  matter. 

If  a  blessed  oblivion  has  all  but  shrouded  the  plays  of  late  nineteenth- 
century  America,  some  small  consolation  may  be  found  in  noting  the  cere- 
ments draped  about  the  dramas  then  written  in  England  or  France.  In 
the  field  of  the  opera,  where  "staginess"  is  still  tolerated,  there  is,  however, 
one  play  of  the  period  which  is  alive  as  a  libretto.  The  pathetic  history 
of  Madame  Butterfly  and  her  misalliance  with  an  American  Naval  officer 
originally  was  a  short  story,  written  by  John  Luther  Long  (1861-1927) 
and  published  in  1898  in  a  volume  containing  other  sentimental  tales  of 
a  Japan  never  visited  by  the  author.  David  Belasco  ( 1859-193 1),  well- 
remembered  theatre  manager  and  owner,  whose  multitude  of  plays  have 
merit  only  when  they  were  written  in  collaboration,  saw  the  acting  possi- 
bilities of  the  narrative  and  in  conjunction  with  Long  adapted  it  for  the 
stage.  Madame  Butterfly  (1900)  fared  well  in  both  New  York  and  Lon- 
don, and  in  the  latter  city  was  seen  by  Giacomo  Puccini,  who  under- 
stood no  word  of  it  save  "whiskey"  but  nonetheless  had  it  translated  and 
made  over  into  a  libretto.  In  1904  the  opera  had  its  first  performance,  in 
Milan.  Another  American  drama,  written  by  Belasco  alone,  The  Girl 
of  the  Golden  West  (1905),36  was  also  used  by  the  Italian  for  a  lesser 

84  A  revised  version  by  the  author  and  with  elaborate  directions  for  acting  appears 
in  Quinn,  Representative  American  Plays. 

86  Printed  by  Samuel  French  (I  1924I). 

:;,i  Reprinted  in  Representative  American  Dramas,  ed.  Montrose  J.  Moses  and  Joseph 
W.  Krutch  (Boston,  1947).  Madame  Butterfly  may  be  found  most  readily  in  Quinn, 
Representative  America?!  Plays. 


AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE  809 

opera,  La  Fanciulla  del  West  (19 10).  With  this  adventurous  stuff  of  the 
days  of  Forty-Nine  the  United  States  furnished  its  first  native  theme  for 
a  major  grand  opera.  Dramatically,  its  sins  of  omission  were  many,  but 
developments  in  the  theatre  after  the  passage  of  the  international  copy- 
right act  were  not  without  promise  that  a  better  day  might  dawn. 


PART  IV 


The  Twentieth  Century 

BY 

GEORGE  F.  WHICHER 


Chapter  40 


LINGERING  URBANITY 

Seventy-five  million  Americans  welcomed  the  year  1900  with  some  doubt 
as  to  whether  they  were  still  in  the  nineteenth  century  or  had  left  it  be- 
hind them.  For  several  years,  in  fact,  there  remained  a  large  uncertainty 
as  to  what  sort  of  new  era  was  about  to  dawn.  Gradually  the  dire  suspi- 
cion grew  that  the  twentieth  century  had  come  trailing  clouds  of  bogus 
glory  known  as  Victorianism.  To  ring  out  the  old,  indiscriminately  and 
at  once,  became  a  fashionable  concern  which  lasted  well  into  the  nineteen- 
twenties.  When  it  was  revealed  what  sort  of  newness  had  rushed  in  to 
fill  the  void,  there  was  less  occasion  for  bells.  But  an  increasing  awareness 
of  human  predicaments  gave  rise  to  an  extraordinary  activity  on  the  part 
of  American  writers. 

A  possible  reason  for  the  passionate  urgency  to  discard  the  past  may 
be  discerned  in  the  cultural  development  of  the  United  States  between 
the  Civil  War  and  the  end  of  the  century.  It  was  a  time  of  specious  and 
premature  flowering.  Concentrations  of  wealth  in  the  hands  of  industrial- 
ists, businessmen,  and  bankers  made  possible  a  large  surplus  of  leisure,  if  not 
for  them  then  at  least  for  their  wives  and  children.  At  the  same  time  a 
rapidly  increasing  proportion  of  the  people  were  leaving  the  farms  for 
the  cities.  The  kindly  neighborliness  of  the  village  could  not  be  main- 
tained in  a  shifting  and  highly  competitive  urban  community,  where 
standards  of  living  were  more  and  more  affected  by  the  influx  of  fresh 
arrivals  from  Europe.  Nor  could  a  simple  personal  morality  suffice  to 
meet  the  complex  problems  of  an  industrialized  society.  Thus  native 
traditions,  codes,  and  standards  soon  became  discredited.  In  the  hope  of 
recovering  the  certainties  dimly  associated  with  the  past  many  Americans 
looked  again  to  the  Old  World.  Perhaps  the  greater  sophistication  of  long- 
established  societies  might  hold  an  answer  to  their  perplexities.  They  no 
longer  went  abroad  to  be  Americanized,  as  Emerson  had  said,  but  to  divest 
themselves  as  far  as  possible  of  their  Americanism. 

The  ensuing  invasion  of  Europe  by  American  tourists  has  had  no  parallel 

813 


8 14  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  cultural  history.  For  nearly  half  a  century  restless  droves  of  pilgrims 
have  journeyed  across  the  Atlantic,  not  to  transact  business,  nor  to  study, 
nor  to  visit  friends,  but  merely  to  wander  from  place  to  place,  inspecting 
historical  sites,  buildings,  museums,  galleries,  and  when  all  else  failed, 
scenery,  in  a  vague  search  for  atmosphere  or  for  release  from  tedium.  They 
brought  home  to  middle-class  America  a  gloss  of  European  manners  and 
European  styles  of  dress.  Forms  of  architecture  were  borrowed  wholesale 
from  abroad.  Paintings  and  objects  of  virtu  were  imported  in  quantity  and 
displayed  in  private  collections  and  public  museums.  The  literatures  of 
England,  France,  Germany,  Italy,  and  Spain  were  taught  in  American  col- 
leges and  universities  to  the  almost  total  neglect  of  native  authors.  In  con- 
sequence the  national  culture  lost  connection  with  the  vital  physical,  eco- 
nomic, and  political  forces  of  the  country  and  became  a  rootless,  imitative 
thing,  without  stability.  The  ground  was  prepared  for  the  widespread 
confusions  and  the  collapse  of  standards  that  distinguished  the  early  twen- 
tieth century  from  the  previous  era.  Unlike  more  •  mature  nations  the 
United  States  had  no  deeply  rooted  confidence  in  its  own  cultural  integrity. 
While  many  Americans  were  enriching  themselves  with  an  acquired 
cosmopolitanism,  there  was  less  need  for  cultural  expression  at  home. 
Nobody  was  concerned  to  ask,  as  Emerson  had  asked  half  a  century  be- 
fore, why  we  too  should  not  enjoy  an  original  relation  to  the  universe. 
Native  talent  in  the  arts  either  matured  in  obscurity  as  in  the  painting  of 
Eakins  and  the  poems  of  Emily  Dickinson,  or  was  merged  like  Henry 
James's  fiction  in  the  general  current  of  internationalism.  Society  as 
exhibited  at  Newport,  architecture  as  displayed  in  Fifth  Avenue  mansions, 
literature  as  encouraged  by  magazines  that  catered  to  intellectuals,  lacked 
national  tang.  The  American  mind  seemed  to  be  filled  by  a  conglomerate 
of  ingredients,  mostly  imported  and  imperfectly  assimilated.  If  the  busi- 
ness of  intelligent  criticism  is  "to  be  in  touch  with  everything,"  a  practic- 
ing critic  might  have  felt  that  at  least  a  little  of  everything  was  included 
in  the  ragbag  of  American  culture  as  the  new  century  opened. 


As  a  point  of  reference  from  which  to  measure  the  subsequent  advance 
or  regression  of  literature  there  can  be  no  better  choice  than  William 
Crary  Brownell  (1851-1928),  "the  most  discerning  literary  critic  of  our 
day,"  as  Edith  Wharton  called  him.1  He  was  the  fine  product  of  a  syn- 
thetic civilization,  with  a  temperament  at  once  fastidious  in  its  search 
for  excellence  and  sympathetic  to  the  slightest  manifestations  of  vital 
energy.  His  mind  was  early  tempered  by  a  classical  education  and  later 
given  a  cutting  edge  by  several  years  of  direct  contact  with  French  life 
and  thought.  While  busied  for  nearly  forty  years  as  a  publisher's  adviser 

1  W.  C.  Brownell:  Tributes  and  Appreciations  (1929),  p.  3.  This  privately  printed 
volume  contains  papers  by  Edith  Wharton,  Agnes  Repplier,  Bliss  Perry,  and  others.! 


LINGERING  URBANITY  815 

in  giving  counsel  to  authors  of  all  descriptions,2  Brownell  composed  with 
unhurried  deliberation  eight  books  of  his  own,  all  bearing  on  the  central 
problem  of  the  relation  of  culture  to  modern  democratic  society. 

Almost  inevitably  the  major  emphasis  of  his  work  was  devoted  to  a 
defense  of  traditions  and  standards  as  against  the  disruptive  forces  of  his 
time.  As  a  social  critic  in  his  brilliant  analysis  of  a  European  national 
culture,  French  Traits  (1889),  he  was  careful  to  distinguish  a  basis  of 
national  stability  in  the  social  instinct  which  has  remained  constant 
throughout  all  the  changes  and  readjustments  that  the  French  have  ex- 
perienced from  the  time  of  Charlemagne.  In  French  Art  (1892),  on  the 
other  hand,  the  critic  revealed  how  a  false  traditionalism  might  produce 
the  aridity  of  French  classical  painting  and  so  lead  in  turn  to  an  unbalanced 
assertion  of  individual  and  undisciplined  energies  on  the  part  of  ro- 
mantics in  revolt.  In  Victorian  Prose  Masters  (1901)  and  American  Prose 
Masters  ( 1909),  the  latter  his  most  assured  masterpiece,  Brownell  analyzed 
the  work  of  twelve  leading  writers  against  a  background  of  nineteenth- 
century  democracy,  and  in  effect  sought  to  define  the  validity  of  the 
writer's  function  as  illustrated  more  or  less  imperfectly  by  the  authors 
examined. 

From  criticism  of  specific  writers  Brownell  next  passed  to  an  examina- 
tion of  the  principles  of  criticism  itself  in  the  brief  and  sparkling  brochures 
entitled  Criticism  (19 14)  and  Standards  (19 17)  and  in  his  full-length 
book,  The  Genius  of  Style  (1924).  Here  he  distinguished  the  limits  within 
which  a  writer's  personal  temperament  may  fruitfully  operate,  and  as- 
serted with  lucid  force  the  need  of  discipline.  Laxness  has  seldom  been 
more  wittily  rebuked  than  in  these  pages,  which  champion  intelligence 
without  cheapening  it. 

We  recognize  greatness  in  a  critic  when  he  becomes  unpredictable. 
From  the  final  chapter  of  French  Traits  on  "New  York  after  Paris"  with 
its  candid  recognition  of  American  shortcomings,  it  would  have  been  easy 
to  prophesy  that  he  would  attach  himself  more  and  more  to  the  stable 
culture  of  European  societies.  The  reverse  was  true.  Brownell  never 
severed  the  root  fibers  that  connected  him  with  the  sources  of  his  being. 
His  last  book,  Democratic  Distinction  in  America  (1927),  reveals  his 
awareness  of  an  instinctive  and  unpretentious  soundness  in  the  American 
character  which  many  contemporary  writers  have  overlooked  or  will- 
fully denied.  A  deep  human  tolerance  and  a  deep  affection  color  the 
final  views  of  a  critic  who  has  often  been  accused  of  an  austerity  and 
formalism  which  he  himself  would  have  been  the  first  to  condemn. 


2  Roger  Burlingame,  Of  Making  Many  Books  (1946),  gives  a  full  and  very 
sympathetic  account  of  Brownell's  connection  with  Scribner's.  In  his  preface  the 
author  speaks  of  Brownell  as  "one  of  the  greatest  men  I  have  had  the  fortune  to  know," 
p.x. 


816  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  familiar  essay,  a  form  of  writing  which  has  flourished  particularly 
during  civilized  periods,  tended  to  be  replaced  bv  informative  and  con- 
troversial articles  in  twentieth-century  magazines.  The  easy  chair  of  the 
late  Victorian  essayist  was  transformed  into  the  dental  chair  of  the  pro- 
fessional propagandist.  Nevertheless  the  tradition  of  Charles  Lamb  was 
continued  after  a  sort  by  Samuel  McChord  Crothers  (1857-1927),  the 
minister  of  the  first  parish  of  Cambridge,  Massachusetts,  whose  essays, 
beginning  with  the  volume  called  The  Gentle  Reader  (1903),  are  marked 
bv  unfailing  sanity  and  humor.  The  masculine  vigor  and  precision  of 
William  Hazlitt,  meanwhile,  were  sustained  in  the  Imaginary  Obligations 
(1904)  and  subsequent  papers  of  Frank  Moore  Colby  (1865-1925).  Among 
the  best  of  their  successors  should  be  named  Clarence  Day  (1874-1935), 
Christopher  Morley  ( 1 890-  ) ,  James  Thurber  ( 1 894-  ) ,  and  Elwyn 
Brooks  White  ( 1 899-  ) ,  the  last  two  closely  associated  with  the  New 
Yorker.  Day's  Life  with  Father  (1935),  partly  because  of  a  highly  success- 
ful dramatization,  and  White's  One  Man's  Meat  (1942)  are  well  on  their 
way  to  recognition  as  minor  classics. 

The  writer  most  constant  in  her  devotion  to  the  reflective  essay  has 
been  Agnes  Repplier  (1858-1950),  whose  exceptionally  long  life  con- 
stitutes an  exceedingly  mild  Philadelphia  story.  Her  Roman  Catholic 
upbringing,  which  helped  to  make  her  indifferent  if  not  hostile  to  most 
progressive  movements,  gave  her  a  poised  and  incisive  mind.  Between 
Books  and  Men  (1888)  and  Eight  Decades  (1937)  she  has  steadily  brought 
wit,  wisdom,  and  urbanity,  and  a  saving  sense  of  style,  to  the  discussion 
of  a  great  variety  of  topics,  notably  to  literary  matters.  By  temperament 
most  at  home  in  the  period  between  Dr.  Johnson  and  Jane  Austen,  which 
—serenely  overlooking  the  French  Revolution  and  the  Napoleonic  Wars- 
she  was  accustomed  to  call  her  "happy  half  century,"  she  was  less  acute 
in  dealing  with  public  questions  of  her  own  day.  She  rose  to  the  height 
of  her  form  when  writing  of  cats  and  tea. 


Among  novelists  who  followed  in  the  wake  of  Henry  James,  Edith 
Wharton  (1 862-1937)  and  Anne  Douglas  Sedgwick  (187 3- 193 5)  may 
be  said  to  have  been  liberated  rather  than  controlled  by  his  example. 
Like  him  both  were  interested  primarily  in  highly  cultivated  people  with 
definite  social  position  if  not  with  impregnable  bank  accounts.  Both  were 
familiar  with  American,  British,  and  French  backgrounds  and  ways  of 
thought,  and  frequently  juxtaposed  characters  of  differing  nationality. 
Both  occasionally  explored  the  supernatural  as  a  theme  for  short  stories. 
But  in  all  these  respects  they  were  drawing  on  their  own  predilections 
and  their  own  fund  of  experience. 

Edith  Wharton,  born  Edith  Nevvbold  Jones,  came  of  an  old  New  York 
family,  and  her  marriage  to  Edward  Wharton  of  Boston  confirmed  her 


LINGERING  URBANITY  817 

assured  position  in  the  closed  circle  of  the  American  elite.  A  childhood 
spent  largely  abroad  made  her  familiar  with  society  in  London  and 
Paris.  After  1907  she  established  her  residence  in  the  latter  city,  and  her 
relief  work  during  the  First  World  War  strengthened  her  emotional 
identification  with  France.  Yet  she  was  never  out  of  touch  with  the 
United  States,  though  her  remoteness  from  harsh  actualities  enabled  her 
to  view  the  American  scene  as  through  plate  glass.  She  employed  Ameri- 
can settings  in  much  the  larger  part  of  her  fiction. 

After  a  brief  period  of  verse  writing  in  her  later  teens,  Mrs.  Wharton 
began  to  contribute  short  stories  to  the  magazines  in  the  early  eighteen- 
nineties,  and  at  the  end  of  a  dozen  years  of  diligent  apprenticeship  she 
could  show  two  volumes  of  carefully  selected  stories  and  two  novelettes 
on  ethical  problems.  Her  first  long  novel,  The  Valley  of  Decision  (1902), 
was  a  period  piece  laid  in  Italy  at  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century.  With 
The  House  of  Mirth  (1905),  the  story  of  a  beautiful  and  ambitious  girl 
in  New  York  society  whose  violations  of  the  rigid  social  code  lead  to 
ostracism  and  death,  Mrs.  Wharton  established  herself  as  a  social  satirist 
with  unrivaled  powers  of  irony  in  depicting  the  American  Vanity  Fair. 
Touches  of  poignant  beauty  in  the  treatment  of  the  broken  love  story 
of  Lily  Bart  and  Lawrence  Selden  hinted  at  still  greater  qualities  within 
the  novelist's  reach. 

Her  talent  as  a  creator  of  high  tragedy  was  not  fully  revealed  until 
she  turned  from  New  York  society  life  to  sketch  a  story  of  the  New 
England  countryside.  In  Ethan  Frome  (191.1)  she  was  at  a  disadvantage 
in  that  her  knowledge  of  rural  life  was  merely  that  of  a  summer  visitor 
in  the  Berkshires.  She  undoubtedly  exaggerated  the  wintry  starkness  of 
her  story's  setting.  The  denouement  of  her  brief  novel  also  is  so  little 
inevitable  that  she  was  forced  to  employ  a  clever  trick  of  construction 
to  make  it  appear  an  antecedent  circumstance  rather  than  a  necessary 
outcome  of  events.  Nevertheless  her  power  to  shock  the  reader  into  pity 
for  the  long-suffering  Ethan,  when  his  attempt  to  clutch  to  his  heart  in 
death  the  one  happiness  he  has  ever  known  ends  in  a  hideously  pro- 
tracted disaster,  places  this  book  securely  on  the  level  with  the  few  great 
tragic  novels  in  English.  Ethan  Frome  does  not  occupy  the  same  relation 
to  Mrs.  Wharton's  other  novels  that  The  Scarlet  Letter  does  to  Haw- 
thorne's total  output;  it  is  not  her  greatest  achievement.  But  its  somber 
dramatic  power,  whether  in,  book  form  or  in  the  stage  version  by  Owen 
and  Donald  Davis,  has  made  it  a  favorite  with  the  public. 

This  sense  for  effective  theatre  reached  its  culmination  in  Mrs. 
Wharton's  most  masterly  work,  The  Age  of  Innocence  (1920).  Here  she 
has  returned  to  the  stuffy  background  of  New  York  society  in  the 
seventies  and  has  conjured  up  in  contrast  to  its  wooden  proprieties  a  pair 
of  star-crossed  lovers,  who  recognize  each  other  just  too  late.  Newland 
Archer's  engagement  to  the  relentlessly  conventional  May  Welland  has 


8i8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

just  been  announced  when  he  finds  in  Ellen  Olenska  his  natural  mate. 
In  another  setting  it  might  have  been  possible  for  the  lovers  to  obey  their 
hearts,  but  Archer  finds  himself  snared  in  a  net  of  implacable  decorums. 
Without  ever  seeming  to  recognize  the  situation  May  Welland  adroitly 
but  firmly  thwarts  every  contemplated  move  of  the  lovers,  for  she  knows 
how  to  take  advantage  of  Archer's  sense  of  honor  and  of  Ellen's  gener- 
osity. Their  personal  happiness  does  not  count.  Twenty-six  years  later, 
after  his  wife's  death,  Archer  might  have  visited  his  lost  love  in  Paris. 
In  one  of  the  most  perfectly  conceived  final  scenes  in  fiction,  he  sends 
his  son  instead  to  carry  her  his  greetings,  preferring  for  his  own  part 
with  rare  wisdom  not  to  disturb  his  memories. 

Irony  and  tragedy  are  combined  in  sure  proportion  and  with  beautiful 
dexterity  in  this  novel.  Elsewhere  Mrs.  Wharton's  ironic  bent  is  some- 
times too  automatically  in  evidence.  There  is  a  studious  and  unprovoked 
malice  in  some  of  her  random  shots,  as  in  the  following  labored  char- 
acterization of  one  of  the  most  inoffensive  of  religious  bodies: 

An  edulcorated  Church  of  England  which,  under  the  conciliatory  name  of 
the  "Episcopal  Church  of  the  United  States  of  America,"  left  out  the  coarser 
allusions  in  the  Marriage  Service,  slid  over  the  comminatory  passages  in  the 
Athanasian  Creed,  and  thought  it  more  respectful  to  say  "Our  Father  who' 
than  "which"  in  the  Lord's  Prayer,  was  exactly  suited  to  the  spirit  of  com- 
promise whereon  the  Ralstons  had  built  themselves  up.3 

Her  plots  too  sometimes  depend  on  considerations  so  involved  and  tenuous 
that  they  run  the  risk  of  arousing  incredulity.  An  example  of  an  all  but 
impossible  story  redeemed  by  the  solidity  of  character  portrayal  and 
the  well-managed  dramatic  tension  is  the  novelette  called  The  Old  Maid 
( 1924),  in  which  two  women  who  have  loved  the  same  man  are  drawn 
into  rivalry  for  the  affection  of  the  daughter  which  one  of  them  has 
born  to  him  but  cannot  openly  acknowledge.  The  story  involves  a  nexus 
of  human  relationships  as  impalpable  as  gossamer,  yet  a  gossamer  of 
adamant.  Such  is  Mrs.  Wharton's  skill  in  handling  the  fine-spun  situation 
that  the  story  has  been  successfully  dramatized. 

Because  her  characters  are  so  often  controlled  by  social  conventions 
which  have  now  ceased  to  be  valid,  Mrs.  Wharton's  novels  sometimes 
appear  to  be  brittle  contrivances.  We  do  not  fully  sympathize  with  the 
artificial  motives  that  actuate  these  human  puppets.  Hence  one  may 
wonder  whether  her  most  enduring  work  may  not  be  found  in  a  short 
novel  such  as  Bunner  Sisters  (19 16),  which  is  not  concerned  with  people] 
bound  by  an  elaborate  social  code,  but  with  two  middle-class  maiden 
ladies  who  keep  a  millinery  shop  in  a  mean  street  near  Stuyvesant  Square. 
In  telling  this  story  of  women  of  no  position  the  author  tempered  her 
irony  and  stressed  the  timeless  human  values  of  her  theme. 

■■>  Old  New  York:  The  Old  Maid  (1924),  p.  4. 


LINGERING  URBANITY  819 

No  writer  of  the  century  has  known  better  than  Mrs.  Wharton  how 
to  excite  esthetic  satisfaction  in  cultivated  readers  by  the  sheer  virtuosity 
of  her  craftsmanship,  both  in  the  large  design  of  her  books  and  in  the 
brilliant  and  sustained  rightness  of  her  phrasing.  Many  of  her  short  stories 
are  delicious  in  their  satiric  assaults  on  sentimentality  or  sham.  But  it  is 
when  she  transcends  her  facility  to  give  us  moments  of  beauty  and  tragic 
insight  that  she  discloses  her  true  stature.  Such  moments  at  best  cannot 
be  other  than  rare.  It  is  a  tribute  to  the  artist  in  her  rather  than  to  any 
strain  of  instinctive  humanity  in  her  nature  that  Mrs.  Wharton's  novels 
and  stories  carry  us  repeatedly  out  from  the  shallows  of  social  comedy 
into  deep  waters. 

Human  relationships  and  the  contrasts  of  American  with  English  and 
continental  European  ways  of  thought  are  the  themes  which  Anne  Doug- 
las Sedgwick  conscientiously  developed  in  a  dozen  novels  and  two  col- 
lections of  short  stories.  Though  she  lacked  Mrs.  Wharton's  brilliance, 
she  penetrated  more  subtly  into  the  tortuous  and  unacknowledged  motives 
of  her  characters.  Two  early  novels,  The  Rescue  (1902)  and  A  Fountain 
Sealed  (1907),  which  lay  bare  the  animosity  between  a  mother  and  a 
daughter,  gave  a  foretaste  of  what  was  to  come  in  her  first  great  success, 
Tante  (1911),  a  remarkable  study  of  the  rivalry  between  a  celebrated 
musical  genius  and  her  protege.  Seldom  has  the  prima  donna  temperament 
been  more  unsparingly  dissected  than  here.  In  Adrienne  Toner  (1922), 
Miss  SedgwTick  introduces  an  enthusiastic,  uncomplicated,  and  uncom- 
prehending American  girl  into  the  complex  entanglements  of  a  British 
family,  where  her  simple  idealisms  upset  delicate  balances  left  and  right 
and  result  in  a  series  of  needless  catastrophes.  The  heroine  of  The  Little 
French  Girl  (1924),  on  the  other  hand,  learns  by  association  with  a 
British  family  to  assert  her  right  to  a  husband  of  her  own  choice  in  de- 
fiance of  her  mother's  worldly  plans  for  disposing  of  her  in  a  marriage 
of  convenience.  Nothing  that  Miss  Sedgwick  subsequently  wrote  sur- 
passed the  delicacy  of  this  portrayal  of  a  gradual  change  from  one 
standard  of  values  to  another.  For  her  expert  perceptions  of  differences 
in  national  mores,  Miss  Sedgwick's  books  form  an  invaluable  supplement 
to  Mrs.  Wharton's. 


The  substance  of  many  psychological  novels  is  distilled  in  the  poems, 
long  and  short,  of  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (1869-1935),  whose  work 
as  a  whole  presents  a  significant  picture  of  the  gradual  fading  out  of 
values  derived  from  a  previous  epoch.  Robinson  was  by  temperament 
and  New  England  inheritance  a  sturdy  individualist  with  transcendental 
overtones.  But  from  the  beginning  he  was  aware  that  the  world  in  his 
time  was  less  and  less  concerned  with  individual  fulfillment,  and  that  the 
transcendental  confidence  in  man's  inexhaustible  resources  was  not  justi- 


8zo  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

fied  in  the  lives  of  his  contemporaries.  He  was  left,  consequently,  in  the 
position  of  a  man  whose  personal  fortune  is  invested  in  stock  that  has 
long  ceased  to  pay  dividends.  Though  too  shrewd  to  delude  himself 
with  romantic  hopes,  Robinson  could  not  discard  altogether  the  attitudes 
of  the  past.  He  set  himself  with  whimsical  resignation  to  reflect  upon 
the  anomalies  and  distortions  characteristic  of  a  time  of  transition. 

Born  in  Maine  and  educated  as  a  special  student  at  Harvard,  Robinson 
gave  himself  with  entire  determination  to  the  writing  of  poetry.  For 
ten  or  twelve  years  he  had  no  means  of  support  except  a  slender  patri- 
mony. When  this  was  gone,  he  worked  at  odd  jobs  when  necessary. 
President  Theodore  Roosevelt  rescued  him  from  want  by  giving  him  a 
sinecure  appointment  in  the  New  York  Customs  House,  and  to  the  poet's 
almost  comic  dismay  wrote  an  article  that  attempted  to  rouse  an  apathetic 
public  to  the  merits  of  Robinson's  poetry.  After  1910  Robinson's  books 
earned  enough  to  give  him  a  modest  livelihood,  and  the  AlacDowell 
Colony  at  Peterborough,  New  Hampshire,  provided  him  with  a  congenial 
summer  habitation  conducive  to  steady  writing.  For  the  last  dozen  years 
of  his  life  Robinson  seldom  failed  to  publish  annually  a  long  reflective 
poem,  among  them  several  which  represent  his  maturest  work. 

Hazlitt  claimed  that  the  poet  George  Crabbe,  by  means  of  his  drab 
and  dismal  vignettes  of  British  fishing  villages,  had  succeeded  in  "desolat- 
ing a  line  of  coast."  Crabbe,  along  with  Thomas  Hardy  and  the  French 
naturalistic  novelist  Zola,  was  among  the  earliest  of  Robinson's  models, 
and  like  him  the  poet  from  Maine  had  a  vivid  acquaintance  with  a  region 
sapped  of  its  economic  vigor.  The  fine  houses  of  Gardiner  and  other 
towns  "Down  East"  testified  to  a  prosperity  that  had  passed  away  with 
the  era  of  wooden  ships.  In  Robinson's  boyhood  many  of  these  decaying 
mansions  were  tenanted  by  lone  survivors  of  once-thriving  families, 
often  by  single  men  or  women  who  had  in  some  unknown  way,  some- 
times even  by  an  egregious  fineness,  missed  their  adjustment  to  life  or 
failed  to  realize  their  opportunities  until  too  late.  Many  such  people 
Robinson  transferred  to  the  Tilbury  Town  of  his  imagination,  on  oc- 
casion attaching  to  them  odd  names  that  he  observed  on  the  sterns  of 
schooners  or  barges.  Among  these  thumbnail  biographies  are  those  of 
Richard  Cory,  who  with  the  world  at  his  command  mysteriously  chose 
to  put  a  bullet  in  his  brain;  A4iniver  Cheevy,  who  in  default  of  romantic 
glamor  in  his  humdrum  existence  could  only  go  on  drinking;  John 
Evereldown,  who  could  not  resist  the  lure  of  women;  Cliff  Klingenhagen, 
who  found  happiness  in  the  bitter  draught,  and  many  more.  One  type  in 
particular,  recurring  as  "Old  King  Cole,"  "Captain  Craig,"  and  "Flam- 
monde,"  testifies  to  Robinson's  fellow  feeling  for  the  kind  of  vagabond 
philosopher  who  with  no  desires  or  ambitions  of  his  own  looks  upon  the 
follies  and  frailties  of  others  with  wise  tolerance  and  manages  to  "laugh 
with  God"  at  the  human  spectacle. 


LINGERING  URBANITY  821 

In  the  process  of  probing  the  lives  of  others  for  their  hidden  springs 
of  action,  Robinson  seems  to  have  evolved  a  rough  working  creed  of  his 
own.  It  is  founded  on  the  blank  despair  which  in  "Ben  Jonson  Entertains 
a  Man  from  Stratford"  he  attributes  to  Shakespeare  in  the  dramatist's 
darker  moments  of  brooding  melancholy. 

It's  all  nothing. 
It's  all  a  world  where  bugs  and  emperors 
Go  singularly  back  to  the  same  dust.4 

But  Robinson  does  not  rest  there,  any  more  than  we  may  suppose  that 
Shakespeare  did.  Notably  in  "The  Man  Against  the  Sky,"  after  repeating 
that  man's  "blind  atomic  pilgrimage"  yields  only  "a  little  wisdom  and 
much  pain,"  he  goes  on  to  hint  at  a  deeper  reading  of  life,  "an  orient 
Word  that  will  not  be  erased,"  and  a  sense  of  an  amplitude  in  eternity 
that  cannot  be  compressed  within  time-born  comprehension. 

Most  of  Robinson's  longer  poems  are  psychological  studies  of  human 
nature  in  action  and  of  complex  problems  of  human  relationship.  At  first 
the  poet  turned  for  material  to  the  well-worn  Arthurian  saga,  divesting 
the  legends  of  all  heroic  glamor  and  supernatural  incident  so  that  they 
might  be  portrayed  as  purely  human  case  histories.  His  Merlin  is  no 
fabled  wizard,  but  a  man  of  uncanny  wisdom  who  after  some  years  of 
self-indulgent  bliss  with  the  fair  Vivian  finds  that  he  can  no  longer  give 
helpful  counsel  in  the  affairs  of  the  kingdom,  nor  can  he  happily  return 
to  the  life  of  dalliance  that  he  has  abandoned.  Sir  Lancelot  turns  aside 
from  love  to  follow  an  elusive  quest  for  "the  Light,"  but  the  sacrifice  of 
his  worldly  hopes  does  not  even  delay  the  doom  of  Camelot.  Tristram, 
in  Robinson's  highly  effective  recasting  of  the  famous  story,  attains  a 
brief  moment  of  rapturous  fulfillment  in  a  world  where  love  is  powerless 
in  the  face  of  time. 

The  same  curiosity  about  the  psychic  well-being  of  his  characters 
inspires  a  number  of  narrative  poems  with  modern  settings,  beginning 
with  Avoids  Harvest  (1921),  which  pictures  how  a  New  York  lawyer  is 
secretly  haunted  by  the  specter  of  a  boyhood  hatred.  Not  infrequently, 
as  in  Roman  Bartholow  (1923),  Cavendefs  House  (1929),  and  Matthias 
at  the  Door  (1931),  the  central  character  is  helped  to  achieve  self- 
knowledge  only  by  the  disasters  that  fall  upon  those  nearest  and  dearest 
to  him,  sometimes  in  consequence  of  his  own  blindness  or  fury. 

Robinson  was  also  interested  secondarily  in  political  questions.  His 
early  poem,  "Cassandra,"  is  a  reproach  to  the  American  Republic  for  its 
gross  materialism: 

You  have  the  ages  for  your  guide, 
But  not  the  wisdom  to  be  led.4 

4  From  The  Man  Against  the  Sky  (Copyright  19 16,  1944  by  E.  A.  Robinson  and 
used  with  the  permission  of  The  Macmillan  Company). 


822  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

In  "Dionysus  in  Doubt' '  he  denounces,  from  the  standpoint  of  an  in- 
dividualist who  cherishes  a  world  made  colorful  by  love  and  art,  the 
modern  tendencies  toward  collectivism,  standardization,  and  a  leveling 
of  distinctions.  King  Jasper  (1935),  published  shortly  after  the  author's 
death,  appears  to  be  an  obscure  fable  of  how,  when  the  disinherited  classes 
have  destroyed  the  capitalistic  social  structure,  the  life-force  will  in  turn 
destroy  them. 

Of  all  the  values  of  human  existence,  the  ones  which  Robinson  never 
seriously  challenges  are  those  connected  with  the  creative  triumphs  of 
art.  In  "Rembrandt  to  Rembrandt"  he  defends  the  artist  who  has  refused 
to  compromise  with  commercialism  and  has  persisted  in  respecting  the 
integrity  which  he  deprecatingly  describes  as  "your  particular  con- 
sistency in  your  particular  folly."  The  Man  Who  Died  Twice  (1924)  is 
one  of  the  most  significant  of  Robinson's  later  poems  because  it  turns 
on  the  redemption  of  the  main  character  by  a  renewed  vision  of  creative 
power,  so  that  he  is  able  to  overcome  the  sterility  that  had  brought  him  to 
the  verge  of  death.  This  supreme  commitment  to  his  art  redeems  the 
sometimes  involved  and  mannered  style  of  Robinson's  long  reflective 
poems.  When  all  other  certainties  seemed  to  crumble,  he  was  able  to  give 
to  poetry  an  allegiance  that  never  wavered. 

Whenever  the  United  States  takes  stock  of  its  heroes  and  secular  saints, 
the  name  of  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  belongs  high  on  the  list.  He  is 
the  nearest  American  analogue  to  Keats,  a  born  poet  who  could  not 
be  deflected  from  his  calling  by  any  malignity  of  circumstance;  and  more 
than  any  recent  literary  figure,  he  showed  what  human  nature  could 
endure  for  poetry's  sake,  and  with  what  triumphant  serenity.  Though  he 
lived  and  wrote  in  loneliness,  he  was  as  far  from  being  self-absorbed  as 
any  man  could  be.  With  all  his  power  as  a  master  of  vibrant  language 
he  exposed,  denounced,  and  riddled  with  irony  the  idols  of  a  materialistic 
age  and  people.  At  a  time  when  this  nation  was  in  danger  of  sinking 
into  the  recklessness  and  corruption  of  an  easy  prosperity,  it  is  some- 
thing to  remember  that  this  man  achieved  the  grandeur  of  an  essential 
martyrdom  for  his  faith  in  the  inescapable  need  of  life  in  the  spirit  and 
in  truth. 


Foremost  among  lesser  poets  who  maintained  against  the  violence  of 
the  twentieth  century  an  old-fashioned  decorum  was  Lizette  Woodworth 
Reese  (1856-1935),  a  Baltimore  school-teacher  of  astringent  mind.  As 
far  back  as  1887  in  A  Branch  of  May  she  had  revealed  a  crisp  mastery 
of  the  lyric,  and  for  five  decades  thereafter  her  highly  finished  poems 
gained  increased  power  of  controlled  intensity.  Her  Selected  Poems 
(1926)  was  followed  by  four  later  collections.  A  writer  of  sonnets,  none 
as  fine  as  Miss  Reese's  incomparable  "Tears,"  but  uniformly  of  firm  and 


LINGERING  URBANITY  823 

delicate  craftsmanship,  was  Thomas  S.  Jones,  Jr.  (1882-1932),  whose 
Collected  Poems  (1937)  was  issued  posthumously.  William  Alexander 
Percy  (1885-  ),  a  Mississippi  lawyer-poet,  should  also  be  remembered 
for  the  classic  beauty  of  style  shown  in  Sappho  in  Levkas  and  Other 
Poems  (19 1 5)  and  succeeding  volumes.  His  Collected  Poems  appeared 
in  1943. 


Since  the  drama  is  subject  to  the  special  conditions  of  the  theatre  and 
lives  or  dies  in  the  immediate  response  of  an  audience,  its  history  does 
not  invariably  parallel  that  of  other  literary  forms.  Sometimes  it  has 
nothing  but  contemporaneity  in  common  with  the  novels  and  poems  of 
the  age.  The  two  leading  playwrights  at  the  turn  of  the  century  were 
not  representative  of  a  fading  culture.  If  anything,  they  were  straining 
forward  prematurely  toward  the  coming  era.  Each  was  to  produce  his 
best  work  in  the  opening  decade  of  the  century. 

Augustus  Thomas  (1857- 1934),  born  in  St.  Louis  and  educated  in  the 
rough  and  tumble  of  life  in  and  out  of  the  theatre,  was  the  author  of 
more  than  sixty  plays,  of  which  perhaps  a  dozen  retain  some  significance. 
He  first  rose  above  the  mediocrity  of  a  box-office  hack  in  the  early 
nineties  with  a  series  of  plays  featuring  American  backgrounds  in  terms 
of  problems  that  had  a  close  relation  to  the  settings.  Alabama  (1891),  In 
Mizzoura  (1893),  an<^  Arizona  (1899)  represent  this  phase  of  his  work  at 
its  peak.  While  he  was  engaged  with  these  dramas  of  locality,  he  also 
made  several  experiments  with  plays  based  on  current  social  problems,  but 
neither  New  Blood  (1894)  nor  The  Capitol  (1895)  succeeded  well  enough 
to  encourage  him  to  continue  in  this  vein.  Public  interest  was  still  apathetic 
to  political  and  economic  discussion  in  dramatic  form.  The  theatre  was 
regarded  as  an  amusement  enterprise. 

In  a  second  period  of  creative  activity  beginning  in  1907,  Thomas 
wrote  three  plays  skillfully  exploiting  man's  never  quite  extinguished 
interest  in  occult  forces.  Telepathy  and  hypnotism  are  featured  in  The 
Witching  Hour  (1907),  mental  suggestion  in  The  Harvest  Moon  (1909), 
and  mental  healing  in  As  a  Man  Thinks  (191 1).  His  last  significant  pro- 
duction was  a  drama  of  the  Civil  War  entitled  The  Copperhead  (19 18). 
Basic'  in  all  Thomas's  better  plays  is  some  form  of  struggle  of  the  in- 
dividual to  attain  or  defend  his  liberty,  a  theme  which  became  most 
typically  American  when  the  struggle  for  liberty  was  resolved  in  an  as- 
sumption of  greater  personal  responsibility. 

William  Clyde  Fitch  (1865- 1909),  an  extremely  versatile  writer  of 
farces,  society  dramas,  historical  plays,  and  problem  plays,  was  in  tem- 
perament and  training  not  far  removed  from  Mrs.  Wharton,  whose  House 
of  Mirth  he  in  fact  dramatized.  A  college-bred  man,  a  great  reader,  and 
a  constant  pilgrim  to  France  and  Italy,  he  possessed  an  instinctive  flair 


824  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

for  decor  and  for  social  values.  This  talent  stood  him  in  good  stead  when 
he  wrote  Beau  Brummell  (1890)  for  Richard  Mansfield  and  in  numerous 
other  costume  pieces  such  as  Nathan  Hale  (1898)  and  Major  Andre 
(1903).  Of  his  thirty-three  original  plays  those  that  stand  out  most  vividly 
are  built  around  a  leading  character  distinguished  by  a  single  prominent 
trait,  either  good  or  bad.  The  jealousy  of  Jinny  Austin  in  The  Girl  with 
the  Green  Eyes  (1901),  the  unreliability  of  Becky  Warder  in  The  Truth 
(1907),  serve  as  central  motifs  around  which  Fitch  organized  well-con- 
structed social  comedies.  In  The  Climbers  (1901),  The  Woman  in  the 
Case  (1905),  and  The  City  (1909)  he  showed  that  he  could  also  handle 
social  satire,  intense  melodrama,  and  the  serious  play  of  character.  His 
facility  and  his  suavity  have  operated  to  obscure  the  distinction  of  his 
best  work.  "His  contribution  to  our  drama,"  in  the  opinion  of  Arthur 
Hobson  Quinn,  "lies  primarily  in  the  portraiture  of  American  men  and 
women,  prevented  by  their  social  inhibitions  from  frank  expression  of 
their  complete  natures,  but  presenting  in  the  consequent  struggle  a  drama 
quiet  yet  intense,  so  restrained  in  power  that  his  own  generation  mistook 
its  fineness  for  weakness."  5  Though  Fitch's  plays  have  not  returned  to 
the  stage,  the  quality  of  his  dramatic  works  is  being  rediscovered  and 
more  adequately  appreciated.6 

The  plays  of  David  Belasco  (1 859-1931),  San  Francisco-born  actor, 
dramatic  author,  and  producer  of  genius,  were  invariably  "good  theatre," 
but  few  deserve  a  place  in  the  history  of  the  drama  as  a  literary  form.  An 
exception  must  be  made,  however,  for  three  pieces  written  in  collabora- 
tion with  John  Luther  Long  (1861-1927),  Madame  Butterfly  (1900),  The 
Darling  of  the  Gods  (1902),  and  Adrea  (1904).  The  first  of  these,  now 
best  known  in  the  operatic  version  with  music  by  Puccini  (1906),  has 
seldom  been  surpassed  for  the  combined  poignancy  and  dignity  of  its 
tragic  climax.  American  drama  as  an  intense  emotional  experience  at- 
tained a  peak  of  high  effectiveness  in  these  three  powerful  plays.  The 
straining  for  "social  significance"  which  soon  overtook  all  forms  of 
writing  not  infrequently  led  to  neglect  of  values  fundamental  to  the  kind 
of  artistic  achievement  that  Belasco  and  Long  so  well  understood. 

5  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Civil  War  to  the 
Present  Day  (rev.  edition,  1943),  Vol.  1,  p.  295. 

6  In  1946  a  Clyde  Fitch  revival  was  staged  at  the  Pasadena  Community  Theatre 
under  Gilmor  Brown.  While  this  is  not  strictly  a  professional  theatre,  it  is  quite  as 
significant  as  many  Broadway  productions.  The  plays  produced  were  Beau  Brummell, 
Barbara  Frietchie,  The  Climbers,  The  Girl  with  the  Green  Eyes,  The  Truth,  Lover's 
Lane,  Her  Own  Way,  and  Girls. 


Chapter  41 


THE  CONSCIENCE  OF  LIBERALISM 

Between  the  turn  of  the  century  and  the  outbreak  of  the  First  World 
War,  protests  against  the  rise  of  privileged  classes,  the  exploitation  of  the 
worker,  and  the  corruption  of  business  and  politics  were  frequently 
sounded  in  poems,  novels,  and  plays.  Such  protests  had  not  been  lacking 
since  the  scandals  of  Grant's  administration,  but  they  had  been  sporadic 
and  had  attracted  little  attention.  The  first  decade  of  the  twentieth 
century  was  the  moment  when  the  public  awoke  to  the  realization  of 
serious  maladjustments  in  the  American  way  of  life.  The  spirit  of  reform 
penetrated  even  the  White  House.  Writers  of  all  descriptions  increasingly 
turned  their  attention  to  an  examination  of  social  questions,  and  particu- 
larly to  a  pointing  out  of  defects  in  the  existing  system.  Self-appraisal 
flourished  as  never  before. 

The  discrepancy  between  the  professions  of  democracy  and  its  visible 
performance  was  felt  with  especial  force  by  outsiders,  who  tended  to 
idealize  the  United  States  on  the  basis  of  its  official  pronouncements.  The 
general  situation  was  well  pictured  by  the  Irish-born  S.  S.  McClure,  the 
founder  of  one  of  the  most  influential  magazines  of  the  period: 

When  I  came  to  this  country,  an  immigrant  boy,  in  1866,  I  believed  that  the 
government  of  the  United  States  was  the  flower  of  all  the  ages— that  nothing 
could  possibly  corrupt  it.  It  seemed  the  one  of  all  human  institutions  that 
could  not  come  to  harm.  This  feeling  was  general,  at  home  and  abroad.  The 
nation  had,  during  the  Civil  War,  risen  to  moral  heights  which  it  has  never 
since  attained.  The  war  itself  resulted  in  the  opening  of  easy  avenues  of 
corruption.  During  the  struggle,  and  for  years  before,  everything  else  had 
been  neglected  for  the  one  great  question  of  slavery.  People  felt  that  if  this  were 
righted,  nothing  could  be  wrong.  The  great  resources  of  the  continent  were 
rapidly  opening  up,  with  no  provision  being  made  to  control  them,  or  to 
control  the  few  able  men  who  were  bound  to  seize  and  utilize  these  un- 
paralleled resources  for  their  own  ends.  After  the  war  came  the  evils  of  carpet- 
bag government  in  the  South,  and  the  corruption  attending  the  pension  system. 

825 


$i6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  American  people  went  on  believing  that  they  were  still  what  they  once 
had  been,  but  they  were  not.1 

The  discovery  of  the  unpleasant  truth,  when  it  occurred,  led  to  a  zeal 
in  disillusionment  and  an  era  of  self-depreciation  which  can  hardly  be 
matched  in  the  literature  of  any  other  powerful  and  self-respecting  na- 
tion. The  habit  of  attributing  excessive  importance  to  any  shadow  of  a 
fly  in  the  ointment  became  ingrained  in  the  decade  after  1900. 


The  date  when  social  significance,  in  abeyance  since  the  decades  before 
the  Civil  War,  became  once  again  an  important  theme  in  American  poetry 
can  be  determined.  On  January  15,  1899,  the  editors  of  the  San  Francisco 
Examiner  published  as  a  space-filler  a  poem  called  "The  Man  with  the 
Hoe"  bv  an  obscure  school  teacher  named  Edwin  Markham  (185 2- 1940). 
Within  a  few7  days  they  had  a  sensation  on  their  hands.  The  poem  was 
copied  and  commented  on  from  coast  to  coast,  reprinted  in  a  national 
magazine,  and  placed  at  the  head  of  a  volume  of  Markham's  verse  issued 
in  the  same  year.  Seldom  has  a  single  poem  enjoyed  such  instant  acclaim. 

"The  Man  with  the  Hoe"  was  not,  of  course,  the  first  poem  to  express 
concern  for  the  downtrodden  laborer,  nor  was  it  even  a  very  notable 
literary  performance.  Its  resounding  rhetoric  barely  avoids  fustian.  Mark- 
ham  was  soon  to  write  a  slightly  more  defensible  poem  of  the  same 
declamatory  sort  on  "Lincoln,  the  Man  of  the  People,"  and  his  most 
potently  sententious  writing  occurs  in  the  four-line  epigrams  which  he 
elaborated  in  later  life.  But  "The  Man  with  the  Hoe,"  easily  visualized  in 
Millet's  painting  of  a  brutalized  peasant,  became  the  immediate  focus  of 
the  vaguely  diffused  social  unrest  stemming  from  the  Populist  movement 
and  the  Bryan  campaign  of  1896.  Like  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin  it  was  the 
spark  which  ignited  all  the  loose  powder  in  the  magazine.  In  view  of  its 
success  there  was  no  possibility  of  telling  for  some  time  to  come  whether 
the  socialistic  note  in  contemporary  poetry  was  due  to  genuine  convic- 
tion or  to  calculations  of  literary  effectiveness. 

Certainly  William  Vaughn  Moody  (1869- 19 10),  born  in  Indiana  and 
educated  at  Harvard,  did  not  impress  his  classes  at  the  University  of 
Chicago  as  a  flaming  radical.  They  called  him  "the  Man  in  the  Iron  Mask." 
He  was  in  fact  an  outraged  idealist  who  fused  his  indignation  with  a  deli- 
cate lyricism.  The  difference  between  Markham's  grandiloquent  sincerity 
and  Moody's  carefully  modulated  sympathies  may  be  noted  at  once  when 
"The  Man  with  the  Hoe"  is  read  in  close  connection  with  "Gloucester 
Moors."  The  latter  poem  occurred  in  Poems  (1901)  by  William  Vaughn 
Moody,  which  also  included  "The  Quarry,"  a  protest  against  the  threat- 
ened partition  of  China  after  the  Boxer  disturbances,  and  two  pieces 
denouncing  the  American  policy  of  expansion  in  the  Pacific.  "On  a  Soldier 

1  S.  S.  McClurc,  My  Autobiography  (1914),  p.  265. 


THE  CONSCIENCE  OF  LIBERALISM  827 

Fallen  in  the  Philippines"  is  a  bitterly  ironic  dirge  for  a  hero  sent  on  a 
misguided  mission.  Still  more  tremendous  in  its  prophetic  wrath  is  the 
"Ode  in  Time  of  Hesitation,"  repudiating  in  the  name  of  Robert  Gould 
Shaw,  the  leader  of  Negro  troops  in  the  Civil  War,  the  violation  of  the 
fundamental  principle  that  government  should  rest  on  the  consent  of  the 
governed  in  the  forcible  annexation  of  the  possessions  lately  taken  from 
Spain.  In  just  what  way  Moody  proposed  to  "let  the  island  men  go  free" 
the  poem  did  not  indicate,  but  the  author's  impracticality  as  a  statesman 
did  not  prevent  him  from  writing  the  finest  formal  poem  on  public  affairs 
since  Lowell's  "Commemoration  Ode."  Moody's  contributions  to  the 
drama  of  revolt  will  be  treated  later. 


It  was  not  reformers  turning  to  literature  who  instigated  the  public 
exposures  of  corruption  in  American  politics  and  business,  but  a  group 
of  journalists  who  found  in  the  investigation  of  trusts,  railroads,  and 
municipal  governments  a  profitable  subject  for  the  exercise  of  their  pro- 
fession. Theodore  Roosevelt,  when  he  christened  the  group  "muckrakers" 
after  the  character  in  Pilgrim's  Progress  who  searches  for  dross  in  the 
dirt,  oblivious  of  the  crown  above  his  head,  was  not  accurately  describing 
the  quality  of  the  writers  concerned  in  the  movement.  Actually  the 
original  members  of  the  group  were  almost  starry-eyed.  They  conceived 
of  journalism  as  an  instrument  of  civic  pride,  which  should  bring  home 
to  the  bosoms  of  the  people  their  responsibility  for  existing  conditions. 
For  as  Lincoln  StefTens  (1866-1936)  explained  in  the  Introduction  to  The 
Shame  of  the  Cities  (1904),  he  was  not  attacking  individuals  or  even 
classes.  The  fault  lay  with  the  American  people.  If  they  were  afflicted 
with  bad  government,  it  was  because  bad  government  most  truly  rep- 
resented them. 

The  muckraking  movement  seems  to  have  originated  in  the  office  of 
McClure's  Magazine  about  1899,  when  the  editors  commissioned  Ida  M. 
Tarbell  (1857-1944)  to  study  the  Standard  Oil  Company  of  New  Jersey 
and  to  write  a  case  history  of  an  American  trust.  There  was  no  design  to 
vilify  the  company  or  to  produce  anything  but  an  objective  account  of 
the  methods  by  which  a  typical  industrial  corporation  had  managed  to 
surpass  its  competitors.  H.  H.  Rogers  of  Standard  Oil  gave  Miss  Tarbell 
access  to  information  possessed  by  the  company  and  she  had  also  at  her 
disposal  numerous  public  records  of  Congressional  and  State  investiga- 
tions and  of  testimony  by  Rockefeller  and  other  oil  men  given  when 
suits  were  brought  against  the  Standard  Oil  Company.  Her  sifting  of 
this  material  occupied  three  years  before  the  first  of  her  fifteen  articles 
was  ready  for  publication,  and  the  entire  painstaking  research  lasted 
two  years  more.  The  History  of  the  Standard  Oil  Company,  published 
as  a  book  in  1904,  was  shaped  entirely  by  a  desire  to  set  forth  the  truth 


828  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

without  fear  or  favor.  It  inaugurated  one  of  the  most  fruitful  branches 
of  historical  writing  that  could  be  pursued  in  the  United  States,  where 
materials  for  the  history  of  big  business  enterprises  exist  in  greater  pro- 
fusion than  anywhere  else  in  the  world. 

Out  of  Miss  Tarbell's  study  came  the  realization  that  the  power  of  a 
great  corporation  to  secure  rebates  from  railroads  was  its  chief  means  of 
gaining  a  decisive  advantage  over  its  competitors.  This  phase  of  the  sub- 
ject was  further  pursued  by  an  able  young  newspaper  man  named  Ray 
Stannard  Baker  (1870- 1946).  Meanwhile  Lincoln  StefTens,  who  had  served 
his  apprenticeship  as  a  reporter  in  New  York  after  studying  social  science 
in  Germany,  was  collecting  facts  about  the  city  governments  of  St. 
Louis,  Minneapolis,  Philadelphia,  and  elsewhere,  and  was  finding  every- 
where the  same  pattern  of  corruption.  Politics,  vitiated  by  the  commercial 
spirit,  had  become  simply  a  particularly  sordid  form  of  business. 

When  McClure's  Magazine  for  January,  1903,  appeared  with  the  third 
of  Miss  Tarbell's  articles  on  Standard  Oil,  a  report  by  Baker  on  the  recent 
anthracite  coal  strike,  and  Lincoln  StefTens'  paper  entitled  "The  Shame  of 
Minneapolis,"  the  muckraking  movement  was  at  its  apogee.  The  articles 
were  successful  in  attracting  wide  attention  and  so  in  increasing  the  ad- 
vertising value  of  the  magazine.  Other  periodicals,  such  as  Everybody's, 
Collier's,  and  the  Cosmopolitan,  promptly  arranged  for  similar  features, 
and  soon  everything  from  Wall  Street  to  the  patent  medicine  industry 
was  investigated  and  exposed,  often  not  without  good  reason.  The  quality 
of  the  articles  rapidly  degenerated,  however,  since  for  magazine  purposes 
accuracy  was  less  important  than  sensationalism.  An  attempt  was  made  by 
Ray  Stannard  Baker  and  other  associates  from  the  original  staff  of  Mc- 
Clure's to  continue  the  movement  in  the  American  Magazine,  but  muck- 
raking lost  half  its  appeal  when  it  ceased  to  be  a  novelty.  Its  effective 
period  extended  from  1902  to  1906,  with  a  brief  revival  about  191 1.  The 
great  sensation  of  the  First  World  War  deadened  public  sensitiveness  to 
all  other  sensations,  but  the  muckraking  movement  was  not  without  effect 
in  raising  the  standard  of  honest  and  fair  dealing  in  American  political  and 
business  life.  If  our  city  governments  are  no  longer  controlled  by  bosses 
crudely  allied  with  vice  and  crime,  the  improvement  is  in  part  due  to  the 
civic  consciousness  aroused  by  the  muckrakers. 

Miss  Tarbell,  before  making  her  epochal  study  of  Standard  Oil,  had 
written  an  excellent  popular  life  of  Lincoln.  Baker,  besides  developing  a 
new  literary  personality  as  "David  Grayson,"  became  the  apologist  and 
official  biographer  of  Woodrow  Wilson.  Nearly  all  the  leaders  of  the 
original  muckraking  movement  were  permanently  affected  by  the  high 
aspirations  of  their  shared  endeavor.  The  autobiographies,  which  fre- 
quently comprise  their  most  lasting  contribution  to  the  American  literary 
tradition,  put  on  record  the  spirit  of  liberalism  as  it  existed  before  the 
tempei  of  modern  life  was  exacerbated  by  the  strains  of  war,  revolution, 


THE  CONSCIENCE  OF  LIBERALISM  829 

and  power  politics.  Such  books  as  S.  S.  McClure's  My  Autobiography 
(19 14),  in  the  writing  of  which  he  was  helped  by  Willa  Cather,  Ida  M. 
Tarbell's  All  in  the  Day's  Work  (1939),  the  Autobiography  ( 193 1 )  of 
Lincoln  StefTens,  and  Ray  Stannard  Baker's  Native  American  (1941)  and 
American  Chronicle  (1945),  together  with  the  Autobiography  (1946)  of 
the  independent  Kansas  newspaper  editor,  William  Allen  White,  form  a 
memorable  shelf  of  significant  documents  in  American  social  history. 


Writers  of  fiction  were  naturally  influenced  by  the  vogue  of  muck- 
raking articles,  which  often  appeared  in  the  same  magazines  with  their 
own  short  stories  and  serials.  David  Graham  Phillips  ( 1 867-191 1),  an  In- 
diana-born newspaper  man  who  had  learned  his  trade  in  New  York  as  a 
reporter  for  the  Sun  and  the  World,  both  contributed  to  the  muckraking 
movement  a  political  expose  entitled  "The  Treason  of  the  Senate"  and  be- 
tween 1 90 1  and  his  death  poured  out  more  than  a  score  of  novels  attack- 
ing whatever  seemed  to  him  out  of  joint  in  his  time.  Among  other  things 
he  satirized  the  high-pressure  newspaper  proprietor,  the  fortune-hunting 
foreigner,  the  manipulators  of  finance,  the  machine  politician,  and  the  cur- 
rently fraudulent  insurance  company  magnates.  His  later  novels  scathingly 
examined  the  position  of  woman  in  a  success-worshipping  society.  Noth- 
ing better  came  from  his  pen  than  the  posthumously  published  Susan 
Lenox:  Her  Fall  and  Rise  (19 17),  a  crudely  realistic  but  psychologically 
impossible  story  of  a  modern  harlot's  progress,  not  to  the  gutter,  but  up 
from  it  to  a  glittering  social  triumph.  The  novels  of  Phillips  are  interesting 
for  their  wide  awareness  of  social  evils,  though  little  art  and  still  less  re- 
flection went  into  their  composition.  They  are  the  hasty  products  of 
facile  observation  and  loose  thinking. 

A  younger  novelist  who  is  remembered  for  a  single  sensational  book 
associated  with  the  muckraking  era  was  Upton  Sinclair  (1878-  ), 
whose  early  days  were  spent  in  Baltimore  and  New  York,  and  who  has 
lived  latterly  in  California.  He  is  said  to  have  paid  for  his  education  by 
writing  dime  novels,  and  his  first  serious  fiction,  published  while  he  was  a 
graduate  student  at  Columbia,  expressed  the  disillusionment  of  a  somewhat 
naive  idealist.  A  naturalist  novel  of  the  Chicago  stockyards,  The  Jungle 
(1906),  shocked  readers  by  its  revelations  of  insanitary  and  antisocial 
conditions  in  the  meat-packing  industry.  This  book  both  made  Sinclair's 
reputation  and  fixed  the  pattern  of  his  later  novels,  which  are  nothing 
more  than  tracts  cast  more  or  less  into  fictional  form.  In  King  Coal  ( 1917), 
for  example,  a  wealthy  mine  owner's  son  disguises  himself  as  a  workman 
and  learns  about  the  coal  fields  by  first-hand  experience.  So  does  the 
reader.  By  means  of  equally  obvious  devices,  or  by  downright  lecturing, 
Sinclair  has  proceeded  to  present  the  case  for  various  groups  of  the  dis- 
possessed, the  helpless,  and  the  outcast.  At  one  time  or  another  he  has 


830  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

stated  his  views  on  the  evils  of  city  life,  the  commercializing  of  religion, 
the  case  for  pacifists,  the  shortcomings  of  the  press,  patrioteering,  higher 
education,  the  school  system,  the  scandals  of  the  Harding  administration, 
the  Sacco  and  Vanzetti  case,  the  motion  picture  and  automobile  indus- 
tries, and  the  ineffectiveness  of  world-settlement.  It  is  impossible  that  one 
small  head  should  carry  all  that  Sinclair  purports  to  know,  but  his  radical 
prepossessions  give  his  books  a  vitality  as  propaganda  which  they  never 
attain  as  art. 

The  prewar  writer  of  problem  novels  whose  work  appealed  most 
strongly  to  the  intelligentsia  was  Robert  Herrick  (1868-1938),  a  graduate 
of  Harvard  and  a  professor  of  English  at  the  University  of  Chicago,  whose 
major  interests  lay  in  studying  the  possibilities  of  personal  freedom  and 
self-fulfillment  as  modified  by  the  claims  of  professional  or  business  life, 
in  picturing  the  changes  in  the  relations  of  men  and  women  brought 
about  by  modern  conditions,  and  in  critically  examining  some  typical  in- 
stitutions such  as  the  power  trust  or  the  university.  Herrick  was  some- 
thing of  an  iconoclast,  a  radical  without  a  program.  His  social  criticism 
seldom  holds  out  any  promise  of  relief.  He  commonly  kept  aloof  from 
his  characters.  But  in  The  Memoirs  of  an  American  Citizen  (1905),  pub- 
lished the  year  before  Sinclair's  The  Jungle,  he  managed  to  create  a  con- 
vincing portrait  of  a  meat-packer,  who  rises  from  the  farm  to  the  Senate 
without  ever  analyzing  any  of  the  problems  that  confront  him.  A  second 
Chicago  novel,  Clark's  Field  (19 14),  avoids  the  overelaboration  of  theme 
and  neglect  of  structure  that  generally  cripple  Herrick's  novels.  Yet  the 
large  social  picture  that  the  novelist  attempted  to  create  failed  to  ma- 
terialize. He  succeeded  in  raising  questions  which  went  the  rounds  of  the 
women's  clubs  about  19 10,  but  he  left  no  memorable  characters  and  no 
convincing  interpretation  of  American  life. 


Playwrights  made  tentative  gestures  looking  toward  the  discussion  of 
social  problems  in  the  drama.  In  the  mid-nineties  Thomas,  as  we  have  seen, 
had  staged  a  play  dealing  with  the  relations  of  capital  and  labor  and  an- 
other portraying  the  political  scene  at  Washington.  One  of  Percy  Mac- 
Kaye's  early  unproduced  plays,  The  Bridge  Builder,  undertook  to  develop 
a  sociological  theme  and  his  Mater  (1908)  also  touched  on  politics. 
The  public,  however,  proved  to  be  indifferent  to  the  discussion  of  social 
topics  on  the  stage.  When  the  theatre  reflected  the  mood  of  revolt  that 
marked  the  opening  decades  of  the  century,  it  avoided  political  and  eco- 
nomic problems  and  spoke  in  terms  of  spiritual  revolt.  Americans  had  not 
yet  mastered  the  idiom  of  the  new  materialism.2 

2  This  last  statement  may  be  challenged.  The  plays  of  revolt  before  the  Civil  War 
attacked  political  tyranny,  and  there  should  have  been  a  number  which  took  the 
next  step,  as  Europeans  did,  that  of  economic  revolt.  Then  the  progress  to  Moody 


THE  CONSCIENCE  OF  LIBERALISM  831 

Actually  two  kinds  of  revolt  were  taking  place.  The  first  was  a  rebel- 
lion against  the  uninspired  control  of  the  theatre  exercised  by  commercial 
management.  The  second  was  a  tendency  to  express  in  dramatic  form 
themes  dealing  with  the  individual's  struggle  for  freedom  and  personal 
fulfillment.  The  two  revolts,  though  intrinsically  separate,  sometimes  co- 
incided, especially  in  the  realm  of  poetic  drama. 

Representative  of  the  new  literary  forces  invading  the  theatre  was 
William  Vaughn  Moody,  who  wrote  a  poetic  and  symbolic  trilogy,  of 
which  the  third  part  was  never  completed,  and  two  prose  dramas  of 
character,  The  Great  Divide  (1906)  and  The  Faith  Healer  (1909).  His 
contribution  gains  in  significance  if  viewed  as  a  whole. 

The  central  theme  of  Moody's  verse  dramas  is  the  symbolic  union  of 
God  and  man,  after  God  has  neglected  to  make  the  best  use  of  man's  ca- 
pacities and  so  has  allowed  the  spirit  of  evil  to  come  into  existence.  Man's 
subsequent  rebellion,  expressed  in  the  story  of  Prometheus,  typifies  also  his 
emancipation  and  growth.  The  third  part  was  to  have  pictured  the  rec- 
onciliation of  God  and  man  through  woman,  who  is  both  Eve  and  the 
mother  of  Christ,  and  their  mutual  interdependence.  It  should  be  noted 
that  Moody's  message  is  not  one  of  blind  submission  to  God's  will,  but  a 
suggestion  that  man  may  best  fulfill  his  Creator's  purposes  by  the  full 
expansion  of  his  powers. 

The  contrast  between  a  repressed  nature  and  a  freer  spirit  seeking  self- 
realization  is  the  theme  of  The  Great  Divide.  Ruth  Jordan,  whose  New 
England  upbringing  has  taught  her  to  cultivate  inhibitions  and  to  distrust 
her  impulses,  is  discovered  alone  in  a  western  cottage  by  three  cowboys 
on  the  rampage.  She  agrees  to  marry  Stephen  Ghent,  a  virile  Westerner, 
if  he  will  save  her  from  rape.  After  he  has  fulfilled  his  part  of  the  bargain 
and  they  are  duly  married,  however,  she  cannot  accept  the  possibilities  of 
happiness  so  irregularly  come  by,  and  returns  to  her  family.  Stephen, 
whose  straightforward  mind  sees  that  there  is  no  occasion  for  self-re- 
proaches, refuses  to  allow  her  to  abandon  him  and  makes  a  successful 
fight  to  deliver  her  from  the  imaginary  obligations  to  conventional  stand- 
ards with  which  she  has  surrounded  herself. 

A  more  subtle  drama  of  personal  fulfillment,  The  Faith  Healer,  which 
failed  to  hold  the  stage,  deals  with  the  apparent  conflict  between  a  great 
mission  and  the  call  of  love.  But  after  the  lover's  desires  are  purified  by 
the  pain  and  grief  of  a  renunciation,  a  new  and  selfless  type  of  love  almost 
miraculously  becomes  the  means  whereby  the  healer's  mission  is  accom- 
plished. Again  Moody's  emphasis  is  on  the  supreme  importance  of  the 
soul's  flowering.  He  sees  no  virtue  in  the  crushing  of  man's  will. 

A  symbol  of  flaming  revolt  against  the  dull  bourgeois  spirit  of  a  com- 

and  the  spiritual  revolt  would  have  been  logical.  As  it  was,  the  plays  of  economic 
revolt  failed  to  materialize  in  the  later  nineteenth  century,  and  when  they  arrived, 
contemporaneously  with  Moody,  it  was  at  the  hands  of  second-rate  playwrights. 


832  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

mercial  age  was  presented  by  Josephine  Preston  Peabody  (1874-1922)  in 
her  verse-drama  The  Piper,  the  play  selected  for  first  presentation  at  the 
Shakespeare  Memorial  Theatre,  Stratford-on-Avon,  in  19 10,  and  success- 
fully performed  the  following  season  at  the  New  Theatre  in  New  York. 
This  timeless  but  profoundly  human  study  of  a  well-deserved  revenge  not 
consummated  but  resolved  in  the  Christian  spirit  of  contrition  and  for- 
giveness served  to  mark  the  triumphant  return  to  the  theatre  of  the 
drama  that  is  also  a  work  of  literature.  Miss  Peabody's  other  verse-plays, 
Marlowe  (1901),  a  five-act  tragedy,  and  The  Wolf  of  Giibbio  (191 3), 
have  never  been  professionally  acted. 

In  the  wake  of  The  Piper,  however,  there  followed  performances  of 
Mary  Austin's  The  Arrow  Maker  (191 1)  and  of  Alice  Brown's  Children 
of  Earth  (19 15),  both  produced  by  Winthrop  Ames  and  both  featuring 
a  woman's  revolt  against  stifling  conventions.  A  new  variation  of  the  same 
theme  was  offered  by  Charles  Kenyon  in  Kindling  (191 1),  when  an  ex- 
pectant mother  from  the  New  York  slums,  arrested  for  disposing  of  stolen 
goods,  makes  a  powerful  plea  for  her  unborn  child's  right  to  a  fair  chance 
in  the  world  and  a  normal  upbringing. 

The  conflict  of  the  individual  with  social  forces  that  threaten  to  warp 
his  nature  from  its  true  bent  is,  of  course,  a  very  familiar  dramatic  sub- 
ject, both  in  America  and  in  Europe.  At  the  time  we  are  discussing,  the 
theme  was  especially  favored  by  the  literary  idealists  who  rallied  to  deliver 
the  drama  from  the  oppression  of  the  box  office.  Their  combined  efforts 
produced  an  impressive  demonstration  of  the  value  placed  on  such  mat- 
ters as  the  dignity  of  man  and  the  spiritual  unfolding  of  his  nature  by  a 
people  sometimes  thought  to  be  exclusively  preoccupied  with  material 
comforts. 

One  of  the  most  persistent  and  resourceful  playwrights  in  the  struggle 
against  the  commercial  domination  of  the  theatre  has  been  Percy  Mac- 
Kaye  (1875-  ),  who  has  written  regular  dramas,  community  plays, 
and  operas.  Born  to  the  theatre  as  the  son  of  the  actor  Steele  A4acKaye  and 
educated  at  Harvard  before  the  days  of  the  47  Workshop,  he  has  skill- 
fullv  adapted  literary  themes  to  dramatic  presentation,  as  in  The  Canter- 
bury Pilgrims  (1903),  a  Chaucerian  revival,  and  The  Scarecrow  (1908), 
his  best  production,  based  on  a  short  story  of  New  England  witchcraft  by 
Hawthorne.  A  variety  of  experiments  ranging  from  the  literary  satire  of 
Anti- Matrimony  (1910),  a  take-off  on  the  effect  of  Ibsen  and  other  con- 
tinental European  dramatists  on  American  would-be  intellectuals,  to  the 
folk-dramas  exemplified  by  Yankee  Fantasies  (191 2)  and  This  Fine-Pretty 
World  (1923)  have  testified  to  MacKaye's  constant  exploration  of  new 
dramatic  genres.  At  times  he  has  had  to  struggle  with  the  physical  limita- 
tions of  the  stage  rather  than  with  its  commercialization.  His  most  tri- 
umphant productions  have  been  the  great  spectacles  and  pageants  designed 
for  special  occasions,  of  which  Sanctuary:  A  Bird  Masque  (19 13),  Caliban, 


THE  CONSCIENCE  OF  LIBERALISM  833 

by  the  Yellow  Sands  (19 16),  written  for  the  Shakespeare  tercentenary, 
and  The  Evergreen  Tree  (19 17)  are  typical.  In  these  MacKaye  has  suc- 
cessfully transcended  the  conventions  of  the  picture  stage  and  has  created 
a  new  species  of  dramatic  vehicle.  Though  he  has  left  no  single  great 
masterpiece,  the  cumulative  effect  of  MacKaye's  career  has  constituted  an 
impressive  demonstration  of  what  an  uncompromising  idealist  could  ac- 
complish in  the  sometimes  sordid  world  of  the  theatre. 


Though  Henry  Adams  remarked  that  he  could  not  discern  any  evi- 
dence of  evolution  in  the  succession  of  American  presidents  from  Wash- 
ington to  Grant,  the  liberal  dream  of  a  rapid  social  development  toward 
a  peaceful  and  reasonable  world  order  was  too  deep-seated  to  be  dis- 
turbed by  irony.  On  the  eve  of  the  First  World  War  it  was  briefly  and 
memorably  embodied  in  the  writings  of  Randolph  Silliman  Bourne  (1886- 
1918),  but  the  universal  stampede  of  the  intelligentsia  of  the  United  States 
into  the  crusade  to  make  the  world  safe  for  democracy  left  Bourne  with- 
out a  following.  He  was  one  of  the  few  who  saw  clearly  that  democracy 
could  not  be  served  by  wholesale  violations  of  the  democratic  spirit.  The 
utter  rejection  of  his  vision  was  followed  by  his  early  death.  In  a  small 
but  significant  way  the  failure  of  his  leadership  anticipated  the  epochal 
disaster  of  the  repudiation  of  Woodrow  Wilson's  program  for  world  set- 
tlement. The  possibility  that  reason  and  good  will  might  mitigate  and 
control  the  savage  struggle  for  power  seemed  to  be  ended.  There  ensued 
a  bitter  awakening  from  the  liberal  dream. 

By  an  accident  in  infancy  Bourne  was  left  a  cripple,  hunchbacked  and 
deformed,  but  he  wore  his  disabilities  so  gallantly  that  they  almost  became 
a  grace.  As  if  to  compensate  for  his  frail  physique,  his  mind  worked 
prodigiously.  While  he  was  still  an  undergraduate  at  Columbia  and  a 
disciple  of  John  Dewey,  he  commenced  writing  essays  for  the  Atlantic 
Monthly  marked  by  an  unusual  radiance  of  vitality.  These  papers  were 
collected  in  his  first  book,  Youth  and  Life  (191 3).  His  interests  quickly 
widened  from  literature  to  include  philosophy,  education,  politics,  and 
sociology.  By  means  of  a  fellowship  from  his  university  Bourne  was  en- 
abled to  spend  the  year  191 3-14  traveling  in  Europe.  He  did  not  tamely 
submit  to  the  instant  abandonment  under  wartime  pressures  of  tendencies 
toward  democracy,  social  reform,  and  international  understanding  which 
had  won  his  whole-souled  allegiance  in  time  of  peace.  It  seemed  to  him 
that  the  world  so  disastrously  mismanaged  by  an  older  generation  might 
yet  be  saved  by  the  generous  idealism  of  youth,  and  that  the  exacerbated 
nationalisms  of  Europe  might  be  overcome  by  a  resolute  assertion  of  a 
trans-nationalism  in  America.  The  elements  of  some  such  program  are 
foreshadowed  in  the  writings  collected  after  his  death  to  form  Untimely 
Papers  (1919)  and  The  History  of  a  Literary  Radical  (1920). 


834  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  hopeful  urgency  of  Bourne's  cerebration  led  him  to  overlook  or 
minimize  the  importance  of  brutal  facts.  Three  months  after  the  United 
States  had  entered  the  war  Bourne  published  in  the  Seven  Arts  magazine 
his  trenchant  essay  on  "The  War  and  the  Intellectuals,"  which  bitterly  re- 
proached the  leaders  of  thought  and  opinion  in  America  for  yielding  to 
the  herd-mentality  of  war.  It  was  a  courageous  but  futile  last  stand  of  a 
convinced  pacifist  with  no  weapon  in  his  hand  but  logic.  The  inevitable 
result  was  that  the  war-maddened  herd  trampled  down  the  frail  shadow 
that  offered  to  oppose  it.  The  Seven  Arts  was  forced  to  suspend  publica- 
tion, and  during  the  last  year  of  his  life  Bourne  found  almost  every  avenue 
of  effective  publication  closed  to  him.  Influenza  mercifully  delivered  him 
from  the  bitterness  of  defeat. 

Now  that  he  has  "gone  to  join  the  ironies  with  Old  John  Brown,"  it  is 
doubtful  if  his  fame  will  ring  loud  for  even  a  small  fraction  of  a  thousand 
years.  He  had  no  time  to  give  his  vision  a  permanent  form,  and  it  remains 
a  matter  of  gleams  and  flashes  scattered  through  his  writings.  Nevertheless 
one  may  salute  with  respect  the  memory  of  the  one  American  liberal  who 
put  his  back  to  the  wall  and  defended  his  beliefs  long  after  there  was  no 
chance  that  they  could  be  made  to  prevail.  If  his  place  is  not  exactly  be- 
side Thoreau,  one  may  still  hope  that  he  will  be  remembered  as  long  as 
Bartholomew  Vanzetti. 


The  war  hysteria  probably  stimulated  the  production  of  poetry, 
though  it  did  nothing  to  improve  its  quality.  It  placed  a  powerful  em- 
phasis on  the  treatment  of  crude  and  immediate  emotions  in  verse.  It  also 
brought  into  prominence  young  poets  who  might  never  have  been  heard 
of  if  they  had  not  made  the  supreme  sacrifice  in  battle.  A  typical  instance 
is  that  of  Joyce  Kilmer  (1886-1918),  whose  most  impressive  lyric  "Trees" 
possessed  all  the  elements  of  popularity  and  none  of  poetic  distinction. 
The  self-conscious  rhetoric  of  "I  Have  a  Rendezvous  with  Death"  by 
Alan  Seeger  (1888-1916)  gained  a  brief  tolerance  in  view  of  the  proph- 
ecy's literal  fulfillment.  The  most  mature  poetry  in  English  inspired  by  the 
First  World  War  was  written  by  young  British  poets.  Yet  the  pulsing 
popular  war-songs  of  George  M.  Cohan  (1878-1942),  comic  actor  and 
playwright,  attained  the  distinction,  shared  only  by  "The  Star-Spangled 
Banner,"  and  a  few  Civil  War  songs,  of  surviving  the  war  for  which  they 
were  written  and  serving  to  kindle  the  patriotic  emotions  of  the  next 
great  conflict.  "Over  There"  applied  as  well  to  North  Africa  and  the 
South  Pacific  in  the  Second  World  War  as  it  had  originally  to  the  battle- 
fields of  France.  If  Cohan's  accomplishment  was  not  matched  by  other 
song-writers,  it  was  not  for  want  of  trying.  His  success  showed  that 
he  possessed  an  uncanny  instinct  for  catching  the  exact  vibrations  of 
mass-feeling. 


Chapter  42 


SPOKESMEN  OF  THE  PLAIN  PEOPLE 

Literature  considered  as  a  record  seldom  reflects  the  norm  of  human 
experience.  It  is  usually  produced  by  exceptional  persons  whose  point  of 
view  varies  from  that  of  the  man  in  the  street.  It  tends  to  dwell  on  un- 
common rather  than  ordinary  situations  and  to  express  hopes  and  fears 
that  transcend  actuality.  Only  occasionally  does  it  embody  the  mere  good 
sense,  kindliness,  and  routine  satisfactions  of  everyday  life.  The  quiet  real- 
ist, moreover,  who  insists  on  portraying  the  truth  of  fact  as  he  observes 
it  is  apt  to  be  blamed  for  not  lending  himself  to  the  purposes  of  those  who 
see  only  such  facts  as  suit  their  prepossessions.  William  Dean  Howells, 
an  exceptionally  clear-sighted  man,  has  never  been  forgiven  for  declaring 

that  "Our  novelists concern  themselves  with  the  more  smiling  aspects 

of  life,  which  are  the  more  American,  and  seek  the  universal  in  the  in- 
dividual rather  than  the  social  interests."  x  Yet  it  was  true  in  his  day,  and 
has  not  been  less  true  in  ours,  that  few  recent  arrivals  from  Europe  would 
be  likely  to  dispute  the  opinion  that  Americans  in  general  enjoy  an  easy 
life  in  comparison  with  the  conditions  of  life  in  other  parts  of  the  globe. 
Both  newspapers  and  novelists  incline  to  take  for  granted  the  great  mass 
of  people  who  find  a  reasonable  contentment  in  living.  But  now  and  then 
out  of  the  crowd  comes  a  voice  which  indicates  what  the  people  at  large 
are  feeling. 

Such  a  spokesman  is  often  a  popular  humorist.  The  crackerbox  philoso- 
pher has  in  fact  become  a  national  institution  since  the  time  of  Major  Jack 
Downing.  He  has  even  been  heard  speaking  from  the  White  House  with 
Yankee  intonations.  But  during  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century  the 
most  representative  voices  of  the  populace  have  come  out  of  the  West, 
and  the  shrewdest  one  of  them  all  spoke  with  an  Irish  brogue. 

A  Chicago  newspaper  man,  Finley  Peter  Dunne  (1867-1936),  created 

1  W.  D.  Howells,  Criticism  and  Fiction  (1891),  p.  128.  Anyone  who  reads  the  final 
section  of  Howells's  essay  will  not  find  grounds  to  accuse  him  of  indifference  to 
humanitarian  appeals. 

«35 


836  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Mr.  Dooley,  "the  traveller,  archaeologist,  historian,  social  observer,  saloon- 
keeper, economist,  and  philosopher,  who  has  not  been  out  of  the  ward  for 
twenty-five  years  'but  twict.'  "  Beginning  about  1893  as  a  commentator 
on  local  affairs  and  a  preacher  of  practical  homilies,  Mr.  Dooley  grew 
with  his  audience  until  he  became  a  critic  of  national  and  international 
events  from  the  time  of  the  Spanish-American  War  until  near  the  end  of 
the  Prohibition  Era.  Anything  that  might  be  reported  in  the  papers  might 
be  discussed  across  the  brass  rail  on  Archey  Road,  and  from  the  Corbett- 
Fitzsimmons  fight,  Queen  Victoria's  diamond  jubilee,  and  the  Dreyfus 
case  to  the  advent  of  Coolidge,  most  current  happenings  were  analyzed 
with  a  pungent  and  homely  wit.  The  apparatus  of  the  Dooley  papers  was 
extremely  simple,  being  nothing  more  than  the  minstrel-show  device  of 
interlocutor  and  end-man,  with  Mr.  Hennessy  or  Mr.  Hogan  playing  the 
part  of  credulous  stooge.  Once  launched,  Mr.  Dooley  held  the  floor  with 
few  interruptions,  and  woe  to  the  politician  or  brass-hat  that  provoked 
his  caustic  commentary.  His  first  and  perhaps  greatest  service  to  the  nation 
was  to  deflate  the  bombastic  patriotism  roused  by  the  war  with  Spain, 
and  to  ridicule  the  alarmist  propaganda  that  played  into  the  hands  of 
American  imperialists.  He  was  at  his  best  when  dealing  with  politics  and 
personalities.  No  one  has  ever  improved  on  his  recipe  for  ending  a  war. 

"'What  do  you  think  ought  to  be  done  with  the  fruits  iv  victhry?'  Mr. 
Hennessy  asked. 

"  'Well,'  said  Mr.  Dooley,  'if  'twas  up  to  me,  I'd  eat  what  was  r-ripe  an'  give 
what  wasn't  r-ripe  to  me  inimy.'  "  2 

Mr.  Dooley,  who  sometimes  described  himself  as  "a  Pilgrim  father  who 
missed  the  first  boat,"  was  succeeded  by  Will  Rogers  (1879-1935),  a  cow- 
boy and  actor  born  in  Indian  Territory  with  Cherokee  blood  on  both 
sides  of  his  family.  "A4y  ancestors  didn't  come  over  in  the  Mayflower— 
they  met  the  boat,"  was  his  way  of  putting  it.  Rogers,  after  a  colorful 
career  in  the  show  business,  came  to  be  the  country's  number  one  wise- 
cracker  soon  after  the  First  World  War.  He  had  no  particular  axe  to  grind 
in  his  comments  on  the  news  of  the  day,  but  he  was  constantly  acute  in 
his  satire  of  pompous  rhetoric,  buncombe,  and  group  smugness.  His  public 
pose  of  homely  illiteracy  was  as  much  a  mask  as  Dunne's  dialect,  but  it 
often  gave  added  point  to  shrewd  simplifications  of  complex  matters. 
Rogers'  solution  of  the  vexed  problem  of  war-debts,  for  example,  was 
conclusive:  "I  wouldn't  have  give  them  the  money  in  the  first  place."  In 
comparison  with  this  economic  wisdom  the  remark  attributed  to  Presi- 
dent Coolidge,  "They  hired  the  money,  didn't  they?"  appears  to  be  that 
of  a  retarded  intelligence.  And  when  Rogers  reported  of  the  United 
States  in  boom  times,  "Two-thirds  of  the  people  promote  while  one-third 

2  Finley  Peter  Dunne,  Mr.  Dooley  in  Peace  and  in  War  (1899),  p.  86. 


SPOKESMEN  OF  THE  PLAIN  PEOPLE  837 

provide,"  he  was  putting  his  finger  on  a  tendency  that  many  were  deplor- 
ing, though  there  were  few  who  so  clearly  diagnosed  it. 

A  different  kind  of  reflection  of  the  common  sense  of  the  plain  people 
was  invented  by  George  Ade  (1 866-1944)  in  his  Fables  in  Slang  (1900) 
and  subsequent  books  in  the  same  vein.  The  form  of  the  fable,  with  capital 
letters  plentifully  bestowed  on  important  words  and  an  aphoristic  moral 
in  italics  at  the  end,  served  to  garnish  what  was  often  a  crisp  short 
story  dealing  with  familiar  human  types  in  well-worn  situations.  Ade 
was  Ring  Lardner  in  the  germ,  except  that  he  was  an  inventor  of  novel 
turns  of  speech  rather  than  a  reporter  mimicking  the  idiom  actually 
spoken.  When  a  newly  wed  husband  comes  home  drunk,  Ade  embroiders 
the  fact  with  extravagant  locutions:  "About  Ten  Days  after  they  were 
Married  he  came  Home  at  4  a.m.  in  a  Sea-Going  Hack  and  he  was  Satu- 
rated." His  wife  in  declining  to  accept  his  windy  excuses  tells  him:  "Let 
go  of  the  Flying  Rings.  Get  back  to  the  Green  Earth!"  And  the  moral  is: 
"Some  Women  should  be  given  the  Right  to  Vote."  3 

Ade  wrote  amusing  novels,  several  comic  opera  successes,  and  a  number 
of  light  comedies  of  which  The  County  Chairman  (1903)  and  The  Col- 
lege Widow  (1904)  are  favorable  specimens.  There  is  no  depth  in  his 
writing.  His  fables  made  the  most  lasting  impression  on  the  popular  mind. 


The  short  story  in  the  hands  of  William  Sydney  Porter  (1862-1910), 
who  always  signed  his  work  "O.  Henry,"  lent  itself  easily  to  ingeniously 
contrived  plots  and  to  the  investing  of  commonplace  people  and  places 
with  a  factitious  glamor.  Porter,  born  in  North  Carolina,  went  to  Texas 
at  twenty,  worked  in  a  bank,  and  started  a  humorous  weekly.  Charged 
with  embezzlement  of  a  small  sum  of  money,  he  fled  to  Honduras,  but 
returned  to  stand  trial  when  he  heard  that  his  wife  was  dying.  A  period 
for  reflection  afforded  by  a  three-year  jail  sentence  changed  him  from  a 
writer  of  humorous  anecdotes  to  an  artist  in  the  devising  of  clever  fiction. 
From  1902  till  the  end  of  his  life  he  poured  out  a  rapid  succession  of 
stories,  enough  to  fill  fourteen  volumes  when  his  works  were  collected. 
His  popularity  was  as  brief  as  his  performance. 

O.  Henry's  first  book,  Cabbages  and  Kings,  which  appeared  in  1904,  is 
made  up  of  loosely  connected  stories  dealing  with  adventurers  adrift  in  a 
Latin  America  where  revolutions  are  taken  lightly  as  part  of  the  day's 
work.  On  occasion  he  also  wrote  narratives  with  a  Southern  or  South- 
western setting.  His  most  characteristic  vein,  however,  was  opened  with 
The  Four  Million  (1906),  made  up  of  tales  that  purport  to  reveal  the  un- 
suspected romance  in  the  lives  of  humdrum  people  living  in  New  York. 
O.  Henry's  characters  are  never  subtle  or  significant.  His  effects  depend 

3  George  Ade,  Fables  in  Slang  (Chicago,  1900),  pp.  1 15-12 1.  "The  Fable  of  a 
Statesman  Who  Couldn't  Make  Good." 


838  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

largely  on  circumstances  neatly  manipulated  to  produce  an  ironic  or  an 
unforeseen  ending  and  on  a  running  fire  of  smart  comment  and  witty 
badinage  spoken  by  the  author.  An  O.  Henry  story  always  has  the  air 
of  being  told  in  a  barroom. 

He  was  inexhaustibly  fertile  in  producing  variations  on  a  few  simple 
themes  and  plot  formulas.  No  philosophic  grasp  of  life  was  required.  All 
he  needed  was  a  free  hand  to  contrive  coincidences  and  cross  accidents. 
In  "The  Gift  of  the  Magi"  a  young  husband  sells  his  choicest  possession, 
a  fine  watch,  to  buy  his  wife  a  set  of  combs  to  wear  in  her  beautiful  hair; 
the  wife  meanwhile  sells  her  hair  to  pay  for  a  chain  to  go  with  the  hus- 
band's watch.  In  "The  Furnished  Room"  a  girl  from  the  country,  defeated 
in  her  hope  to  become  a  singer,  commits  suicide  in  her  cheap  lodgings; 
a  little  later  a  young  man  who  loves  her  and  is  desperately  trying  to  find 
her  rents  the  same  room,  and  maddened  by  the  faint  smell  of  mignonette, 
her  perfume,  he  also  kills  himself.  For  a  third  example,  in  "Soapy"  a  tramp 
commits  several  intentional  misdemeanors  in  order  to  get  himself  a  com- 
fortable jail  sentence  for  the  winter  months,  but  through  the  perversity 
of  fate  he  always  fails  to  get  himself  arrested.  He  drifts  on  to  a  church, 
where  the  sound  of  religious  music  awakens  a  flickering  resolve  to  lead  a 
better  life,  and  at  that  moment  he  is  collared  as  a  vagrant. 

O.  Henry  could  and  did  go  on  and  on  with  this  sort  of  thing.  There  has 
never  been  a  better  demonstration  of  the  essential  emptiness  of  mechanical 
novelty.  Nor  can  one  praise  the  running  fire  of  wise-cracks  with  which  he 
adorned  his  narratives.  But  as  a  popular  entertainer  he  adapted  the  short 
story  to  a  more  extended  and  democratic  audience  than  it  had  ever  pre- 
viously known.  A  certain  cheapening  of  the  form  was  implicit  in  the 
process.  Not  more  than  a  dozen  of  his  stories  at  most  are  memorable.  His 
success  made  it  impossible  for  those  who  came  after  him  to  take  pride  in 
the  mere  commercial  production  of  short  stories.  The  only  direction  of 
advance  was  toward  greater  artistic  integrity. 


The  world  of  O.  Henry  is  an  intellectual  Sahara.  A  certain  sparse 
vegetation  begins  to  appear  in  the  novels  of  Booth  Tarkington  (1869- 
1946),  which  at  least  express  the  average  citizens'  distrust  of  anything  that 
runs  counter  to  the  ways  of  the  herd  or  that  verges  on  individual  distinc- 
tion. This  antipathy  to  whatever  is  eccentric  was  deeply  implanted  in  the 
American  mind  by  generations  of  frontier  experience.  It  flourished  par- 
ticularly in  the  Middle  West,  wherever  communities  were  protected  from 
outside  attrition.  Tarkington  was  familiar  with  it  in  the  Indiana  of  his 
childhood,  which  he  took  as  the  setting  for  a  majority  of  his  books. 

His  first  novel,  The  Gentleman  from  Indiana  (1899),  dealt  with  a 
country  editor's  campaign  against  political  corruption,  and  made  capital 
of  the  same  resentment  of  chicanery  that  was  shortly  to  inspire  the  muck- 


SPOKESMEN  OF  THE  PLAIN  PEOPLE  839 

raking  movement.  It  was  followed  by  Monsieur  Beaucaire  (1900),  a  per- 
ennially popular  costume  romance,  which  culminates  in  the  exposure  of 
the  falseness  of  an  aristocratic  English  lady.  After  this  profitable  exercise 
of  romantic  fancy,  Tarkington  settled  down  to  produce  a  long  series  of 
realistic  novels  of  life  in  the  Middle  West,  of  which  The  Magnificent 
Ambersons  (1918)  and  Alice  Adams  (1921),  both  Pulitzer  Prize  novels, 
are  favorable  examples,  and  to  exploit  the  humors  of  adolescence  in  Penrod 
(19 14),  and  its  successors.  In  neither  direction  did  he  display  a  more  than 
average  understanding  of  the  springs  of  human  nature. 

The  Magnificent  Ambersons  traces  the  decline  of  a  family  which  has 
won  its  wealth  during  the  Gilded  Age  and  whose  current  representative, 
the  grandson  of  the  founder  of  the  family  fortune,  is  tending  to  become 
idle  and  arrogant.  Meanwhile  wealth  and  position  in  the  community  are 
being  acquired  by  an  automobile  manufacturer  who  was  once  the  unsuc- 
cessful suitor  for  the  hand  of  the  Amberson  heiress.  When  the  conceited 
young  descendant  of  the  Ambersons  has  been  sufficiently  battered  by  fate 
to  get  the  "comeuppance"  that  he  needed,  he  is  reconciled  to  his  former 
friends  and  rewarded  by  marriage  with  the  automobile  manufacturer's 
lovely  daughter. 

Alice  Adams  recounts  the  futile  attempts  of  a  pretty  lower-middle-class 
girl  to  achieve  a  career  on  the  stage,  for  which  she  lacks  talent,  or  to  make 
a  wealthy  marriage,  for  which  she  lacks  opportunity.  The  sheer  ordi- 
nariness of  Alice  and  her  family  fatally  blocks  her  ambition  to  elevate 
herself  above  her  kind,  and  in  the  end  she  is  obliged  to  deflate  her  preten- 
sions and  to  apply  herself  to  the  uninspiring  duties  of  a  stenographer. 

Tarkington's  forte  is  wholesome  common  sense.  Neither  the  young 
man  in  the  first  of  these  novels  nor  the  young  woman  in  the  second  has 
any  trace  of  genius  to  support  an  assumption  of  distinction.  They  illus- 
trate the  fate  of  the  common  man  who  threatens  to  become  egregious  in 
any  respect.  This  somewhat  obvious  theme,  however,  gave  Tarkington 
ample  opportunity  to  exercise  his  comic  perceptions  at  the  expense  of 
American  small-town  society.  The  byplay  of  his  books  is  better  than  their 
main  intention,  since  it  comprises  an  unfailingly  amusing  and  expert  re- 
port on  the  follies  and  absurdities  of  average  men  and  women.  Tarkington 
skims  lightly  over  the  surface  of  life,  cautiously  avoiding  any  involve- 
ment in  life's  tragic  depths.  Hence  he  is  happily  prepared  to  see  only  so 
much  of  reality  as  is  apparent  to  the  eyes  of  a  growing  boy  like  Penrod 
Schofield,  who  in  a  world  run  by  his  elders  can  get  into  any  number  of 
Scrapes  without  taking  responsibility  for  his  blunders  and  without  receiv- 
ing serious  damage.  For  the  kind  of  unadulterated  and  innocent  comedy 
that  Tarkington  delighted  to  produce,  therefore,  the  Penrod  stories  af- 
forded a  more  appropriate  medium  than  the  superficially  realistic  novel. 

A  young  Middle  Western  novelist,  Louis  Bromfleld  (1896-  ), 
whose  roots  are  in  Ohio,  though  he  has  spent  much  time  in  France,  con- 


84o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tinued  in  his  early  novels  the  presentation  of  much  the  same  kind  of  small- 
town life  that  Tarkington  had  studied,  but  with  a  significant  difference. 
Instead  of  showing,  as  Tarkington  frequently  did,  the  crushing  of  in- 
dividual aspiration  when  it  comes  into  conflict  with  conventions,  Brom- 
field gives  his  sympathy  to  those  characters  who  struggle  to  escape  the 
domination  of  family  and  local  tradition,  even  when  they  are  unsuccess- 
ful. The  Green  Bay  Tree  (1924)  and  Early  Autumn  (1926)  are  memo- 
rable for  their  contrast  of  people  entangled  in  family  commitments  and 
stodgy  orthodoxies  with  figures  like  the  strike-leader  Stepan  Krylenko 
in  the  first  and  the  self-made  politician  Michael  O'Hara  in  the  second. 
Bromfield  has  also  written  several  novels  analyzing  unusual  people  in 
moments  of  crisis,  of  which  The  Strange  Case  of  Miss  Annie  Spragg 
(1928)  is  his  own  favorite.  After  these  his  fiction  declines  in  significance. 
The  Rains  Came  (1937)  and  Night  in  Bombay  (1940)  are  melodramatic 
in  their  intensity  and  seem  to  be  written  with  an  eye  to  Hollywood.  Their 
setting  in  India,  however,  points  to  the  awakening  interest  in  the  Orient 
which  has  been  more  capably  developed  in  Pearl  Buck's  novels  of  China. 
By  1950  Bromfield  had  become  a  neo-agrarian. 

Mrs.  Buck,  born  Pearl  Sydenstricker  (1892-  ),  was  a  daughter  of 
missionary  parents  and  spent  her  girlhood  in  the  Far  East,  to  which  she 
returned  after  attending  college  in  the  United  States.  Out  of  her  intimate 
knowledge  of  Chinese  peasant  life  she  composed  her  trilogy,  The  Good 
Earth  (1931),  So?is  (1932),  and  A  House  Divided  (1935),  and  at  least  a 
one-foot  shelf  of  other  novels  and  stories  with  a  Chinese  setting.  Here  for 
almost  the  first  time  Oriental  characters  were  treated  by  a  Western  novel- 
ist as  more  than  picturesque  accessories.  Fighting  Angel  (1936),  and  The 
Exile  (1936),  are  fictional  studies  based  on  the  lives  of  her  father  and 
mother,  but  they  are  less  striking  than  her  pictures  of  exotic  life  and 
manners.  In  recognition  of  her  services  in  promoting  an  understanding  of 
Asiatics  by  peoples  of  the  Occident  Mrs.  Buck  received  a  Nobel  Prize 
for  literature  in  1938.  She  also  contributed  a  notable  item  to  the  available 
classics  of  the  East  in  her  translation  of  the  thirteenth-century  Chinese 
novel  called  in  English  All  Men  Are  Brothers  (1933).  This  vast  romance 
of  noble-minded  bandits,  with  all  of  China  for  its  setting,  is  hardly  less 
important  than  Airs.  Buck's  original  works. 

Just  as  the  disintegration  of  Europe  was  signalized  by  the  outbreak  of 
the  First  World  War,  two  poets  emerged  from  the  valley  of  democracy 
who  had  little  in  common  save  their  complete  detachment  from  the  gen- 
teel tradition.  One  was  a  belated  troubadour  of  the  frontier,  with  a 
romantic  faith  in  nature,  in  life  close  to  the  soil,  and  in  the  cult  of  heroes. 
The  other  wrote  caressingly  of  the  husky  urban  proletariat,  of  industrial 
districts,  and  of  the  mystic  entity  known  as  the  People. 

Vachel  Lindsay  (1871-1931)  was  born  and  grew  up  in  Springfield, 
Illinois,  and  he  saw  no  reason  why  the  city  of  his  birth  should  not  be  to 


SPOKESMEN  OF  THE  PLAIN  PEOPLE  841 

him  what  Florence  was  to  Dante  and  Weimar  to  Goethe.  After  attending 
a  local  college,  he  studied  art  for  five  years  in  Chicago  and  New  York. 
For  some  time  he  journeyed  about  the  country,  occasionally  as  an  agent  for 
temperance  societies,  but  more  commonly  as  a  slightly  modified  hobo 
"preaching  the  gospel  of  beauty."  He  offered  verses  of  his  own  compos- 
ing in  exchange  for  bed  and  board.  Like  a  prospector  in  the  gold-diggings 
he  was  haunted  by  the  conviction  that  there  must  be  immense  deposits 
of  esthetic  sensibility  in  human  nature  if  he  could  but  locate  them.  His 
vibrant  verses  attracted  little  response,  however,  until  "General  William 
Booth  Enters  into  Heaven"  was  featured  in  Harriet  Monroe's  Poetry 
(January,  191 3)  and  shortly  thereafter  appeared  as  the  title  poem  in  a 
volume.  Lindsay  rapidly  consolidated  his  success  with  The  Congo  and 
Other  Poems  (19 14)  and  The  Chinese  Nightingale  (19 17),  the  collec- 
tions which  include  his  freshest  and  most  characteristic  pieces  written 
like  Beonjonlf  in  four-stress  measure  with  a  free  use  of  unaccented  elements. 
Thereafter  for  the  last  ten  or  twelve  years  of  his  life  his  poems  were  in- 
creasingly controlled  by  doctrinaire  esthetic  theories.  Lindsay  possessed 
very  little  power  of  self-criticism  and  no  sense  at  all  of  when  he  had  run 
an  idea  into  the  ground.  After  entangling  himself  in  a  snarl  of  childish 
and  delusive  notions  about  the  psychology  of  the  creative  process,  he  broke 
down  in  bewilderment  and  exhaustion  and  took  the  shortest  means  of  ex- 
tricating himself  by  suicide. 

During  the  decade  of  his  greatest  popularity  Lindsay  appeared  as  both 
the  composer  and  the  reciter  of  his  poems.  On  the  platform  he  developed 
a  kind  of  "higher  vaudeville"  in  which  he  chanted  his  lines  in  a  sonorous, 
half-singing  voice  with  appropriate  bodily  action  and  called  upon  the 
audience  for  vigorous  communal  responses.  Under  his  tutelage  over- 
serious  intellectuals  discovered  the  pleasure  of  emotional  release,  and  a 
generation  of  Americans  learned  that  poetry  as  well  as  music  is  an  oral 
art  and  does  not  exist  in  completeness  until  performed.  But  Lindsay  tended 
to  rely  too  much  on  exuberance  and  on  devices  of  repetition  borrowed 
from  children's  games.  In  the  end  his  recitations  became  embarrassing  ex- 
hibitions of  a  middle-aged  citizen  in  search  of  auto-intoxication.  Some  of 
his  poems  suffer  when  transplanted  from  the  platform  to  the  printed  page. 

Though  he  could  write  gaily  fanciful  rhymes  for  children,  Lindsay 
had  no  gift  for  the  meditative  or  introspective  lyric.  His  poems  were  the 
expression  of  a  nature  positively  extroverted,  which  took  its  emotional 
color  from  the  subject  it  contemplated.  Hence  his  success  with  subjects 
that  involved  a  maximum  of  noise  and  movement,  a  Salvation  Army 
parade,  a  steam-calliope,  a  darkey  Cakewalk,  a  buffalo  hunt,  a  stream  of 
automobiles  honking  down  the  road.  Many  of  his  songs  were  designed 
as  communal  chants,  while  his  descriptive  and  biographical  poems  such 
as  "Simon  Legree"  and  "John  Brown"  adopted  the  rhythms  of  highly 
emotionalized  oratory.  Few  English  poets— one  thinks  only  of  Blake— 


84z  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

have  shared  Lindsay's  instinct  for  the  fluid  tightness  of  folk  song.  That 
quality  was  his  from  the  very  beginning. 

I  saw  Immanuel  singing 

On  a  tree-girdled  hill. 

The  glad  remembering  branches 

Dimly  echoed  still 

The  grand  new  song  proclaiming 

The  Lamb  that  had  been  slain. 

New-built,  the  Holy  City 

Gleamed  in  the  murmuring  plain. 

What  will  he  sing  tomorrow, 
What  wonder  all  his  own 
Alone,  set  free,  rejoicing, 
With  a  green  hill  for  his  throne?  4 

At  its  best  Lindsay's  art  reveled  in  pomp  and  gorgeous  circumstance, 
as  in  the  opium  dream  of  Oriental  magnificence  which  forms  the  sub- 
stance of  "The  Chinese  Nightingale."  Traditions  of  frontier  life  on  the 
prairies  inspired  some  of  his  most  effective  pieces,  such  as  "The  Ghosts 
of  the  Buffaloes"  and  "The  Santa  Fe  Trail."  Others  took  the  form  of 
tributes  to  an  oddly  assorted  group  of  pioneer  heroes  from  Johnny  Apple- 
seed  and  Daniel  Boone  through  Andrew  Jackson  and  Abraham  Lincoln 
to  Governor  Altgeld,  who  pardoned  the  Chicago  anarchists.  Negro  dances 
or  sermons  supplied  the  movement  and  color  for  "The  Congo"  and  "The 
Booker  T.  Washington  Trilogy."  Probably  the  most  enduringly  signifi- 
cant of  all  his  poems,  though  "Abraham  Lincoln  Walks  at  Midnight" 
would  have  many  votes,  is  the  superbly  vivid  evocation  of  an  American 
presidential  election  in  "Bryan,  Bryan,  Bryan,  Bryan,"  a  picture  of  "all 
the  funny  circus  silks  of  politics  unfurled"  as  politics  was  understood  in 
this  country  in  the  days  when  no  one  supposed  that  a  political  contest 
could  become  grim.  But  under  the  gaudy  surface  are  hints  of  the  unrest 
that  inspired  the  Populist  movement  and  the  Free-Silver  campaign,  the 
revolt  of  the  plain  people,  "bidding  the  eagles  of  the  West  fly  on,"  against 
exploitation  by  the  moneyed  interests.  The  poem  ends  with  an  effective 
application  of  the  ubi  sunt  motif  to  the  politicians  of  an  era  that  none  who 
lived  through  it  can  quite  forget. 

Where  is  McKinley,  Mark  Hanna's  McKinley, 

His  slave,  his  echo,  his  suit  of  clothes? 

Gone  to  join  the  shadows,  with  the  pomps  of  that  time, 

And  the  flame  of  that  summer's  prairie  rose. 


4  From  "I  Heard  Immanuel  Singing"  from  The  Congo  and  Other  Poems  (Copyright 
1914,  1942  by  The  Macmillan  Company  and  used  with  their  permission),  pp.  51  ff. 


SPOKESMEN  OF  THE  PLAIN  PEOPLE  843 

Where  is  that  boy,  that  Heaven-born  Bryan, 
That  Homer  Bryan,  who  sang  from  the  West? 
Gone  to  join  the  shadows  with  Altgeld  the  Eagle, 
Where  the  kings  and  the  slaves  and  the  troubadours  rest.5 

Apart  from  his  longer  pictorial  and  strongly  rhythmical  poems  Lindsay 
struck  out  a  few  short  satirical  rhymes  that  still  have  power  to  sting,  not- 
ably "The  Factory  Window  Song,"  "The  Leaden-Eyed,"  and  the  amus- 
ing fable  of  "The  A4ouse  that  Gnawed  the  Oak  Tree  Down."  Here  in  a 
few  flashes  Lindsay  displayed  a  penetration  unusual  in  a  poet  whose  most 
marked  gift  was  the  naive  spontaneity  of  a  folk  singer. 

Carl  Sandburg  (1878-  ),  the  son  of  Swedish  immigrants,  combined 
in  his  youth  all  sorts  of  itinerant  labor  with  a  modicum  of  irregular  school- 
ing. After  serving  as  a  volunteer  in  the  Spanish- American  War  and  gradu- 
ating from  Lombard  College,  he  worked  for  a  decade  as  journalist,  adver- 
tising writer,  and  political  organizer.  His  poem  "Chicago,"  printed  by 
Poetry  in  19 14,  announced  the  advent  of  an  artist  who  possessed  a  com- 
mand of  vigorous  common  words  and  the  new  undisciplined  rhythms  of 
free  verse. 

Unlike  many  other  poets  who  experimented  briefly  with  loose  poetic 
forms  during  the  years  of  the  First  World  War,  Sandburg  has  never 
adopted  the  normalcy  of  conventional  meters.  All  seven  volumes  of  his 
verse,  from  Chicago  Poems  (1916)  to  The  People,  Yes  (1936),  make  use 
of  the  irregular  rhythms  of  highly  cadenced  prose  or  of  short  unrhymed 
lines  without  any  strict  formal  pattern.  Consequently  his  work,  like  Walt 
Whitman's,  is  excessively  fluid.  Few  individual  pieces  stand  out  as  distinc- 
tive or  as  representative  of  his  art  at  its  best.  The  total  effect  of  his  writ- 
ing, it  has  been  shrewdly  remarked,  is  more  poetic  than  the  effect  of  any 
part  of  it  taken  by  itself.  Under  close  scrutiny  Sandburg's  verse  reminds 
us  of  the  blobs  of  living  jelly  or  plankton  brought  up  by  deep-sea  dredg- 
ing; it  is  a  kind  of  protoplasmic  poetry,  lacking  higher  organization.  If 
Whitman's  free-rhythmed  poems  may  properly  be  called  "strong  chants," 
Sandburg's  may  be  described  as  chance-blown  wisps  of  commonplace 
glory  and  compassion.  Whitman's  lines  have  their  basis  in  oratory,  Sand- 
burg's in  the  more  subtle  movement  of  daily  speech. 

The  subjects  of  his  poems  generally  fall  into  one  or  another  of  several 
well-marked  groups.  There  are  many  that  celebrate  in  proletarian  ac- 
cents the  crude  vigor  of  free,  untrammeled  America  and  its  brawling, 
brass-knuckled  types.  A  fairly  large  number  analyze  scenes  of  industrial 
life,  often  those  which  are  ordinarily  regarded  as  ugly,  in  such  a  way  as 
to  derive  from  them  patterns  of  color  or  movement  suitable  for  esthetic 
treatment,  as  when  a  pool  in  a  brickyard  comes  to  seem  "a  wide  dreaming 

5  From  Golden  Whales  of  California  (Copyright  1920,  1948  by  The  Macmillan 
Company  and  used  with  their  permission),  pp.  18  ff. 


844  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

pansv  in  the  night.''  Plain  people  and  commonplace  things  move  Sand- 
burg to  sensitive  appreciation  and  great  tenderness,  or  he  may  mingle 
precise  observation  with  playful  satire  and  brooding  irony.  He  echoes  and 
reflects,  but  seldom  interprets.  Perhaps  he  has  never  written  more  gently 
than  in  a  yearningly  protective  poem  written  about  members  of  his  own 
family. 

My  people  are  gray, 

pigeon   gray,   dawn   gray,  storm   gray. 

I  call  them  beautiful, 

and  I  wonder  where  they  are  going.6 

His  success  with  mixed  moods  has  placed  the  cachet  of  approval  on  the 
tender-tough  attitude  of  much  recent  American  writing  in  both  poetry 
and  fiction. 

Sandburg's  inability  to  articulate,  or  his  unwillingness  to  force  his  ma- 
terial into  formal  moulds,  has  resulted  in  his  redoubling  his  energy  as  a 
collector  of  materials.  In  a  sense  his  most  recent  poem,  The  People,  Yes, 
is  a  kind  of  anthology  of  folk  sayings,  anecdotes,  bits  of  popular  song, 
and  portraits  of  working  men  and  women,  farmers,  and  the  like.  One  of 
his  best  books,  aside  from  his  own  volumes  of  poems,  is  a  collection  of 
folk  songs  under  the  title  of  The  American  Songbag  (1927).  Even  the 
huge  biography  of  Lincoln  The  Prairie  Years  (1926);  The  War  Years 
(1939),  which  will  probably  remain  his  most  enduring  achievement,  is 
less  an  integrated  study  than  an  inclusive  gathering  and  rearrangement  of 
all  available  Lincoln  material.  One  may  respect  Sandburg's  enormous  in- 
dustry, his  wide-flung  sympathies,  and  his  power  to  detect  beauty  in  the 
most  unpromising  places.  But  of  the  half-dozen  leading  poets  of  his  gener- 
ation he  best  fulfills  the  idea  of  a  poete  manque.  It  is  doubtful  whether 
his  vogue,  already  declining,  will  outlast  the  midpoint  of  the  century. 

6  From  "My  People"  from  Smoke  and  Steel  by  Carl  Sandburg  (Copyright,  1920,  by 
Harcourt,  Brace  and  Company,  Inc.),  p.  281. 


Chapter  43 


RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED 


From  the  time  of  Washington  Irving  the  prevailing  tone  of  American 
literature,  though  not  of  American  journalism,  was  polite.  Consciously  or 
not,  writers  of  the  Atlantic  seaboard  accepted  the  standards  of  gentlemen 
as  developed  in  eighteen-century  England.  The  genteel  tradition  was  pow- 
erful enough  to  enforce  conformity  likewise  upon  the  first  men  of  letters 
who  came  out  of  the  West.  Howells,  for  example,  venerated  the  gods  of 
the  Atlantic  Monthly  and  himself  adopted  their  code.1  Even  Mark  Twain 
submitted  to  being  "combed  down."  What  violated  the  canons  of  deco- 
rum might  be  presented  as  humor,  but  the  humorist's  point  of  view  was 
always  that  of  the  civilized  upper  classes. 

By  1900  great  blocks  of  the  American  populace  were  composed  of  re- 
cent emigrants  from  continental  Europe,  or  the  children  of  such  emigrants, 
who  owed  no  allegiance  to  the  moral  standards  of  the  puritan  or  the  polite 
conventions  of  genteel  society.  Moreover  the  rapid  industrialization  of  the 
country  and  the  growth  of  its  cities  had  encouraged  the  emergence  of 
more  functional  types  than  the  man  of  leisure.  The  age  of  entrepreneurs, 
engineers,  and  experts  was  beginning.  It  was  not  long  before  attitudes  con- 
sciously at  variance  with  the  customary  decorums  found  expression  in 
literature.  A  revolt  against  the  cultural  dominance  of  the  leisure  class  and 
its  standards  was  soon  under  way. 

Two  aspects  of  the  assault  on  respectability  may  be  noted.  The  first 
comprised  the  writings  of  men  whose  personal  experience  failed  to  cor- 
respond to  the  patterns  of  middle-class  life  and  who  in  sheer  honesty,  not 
unmingled  with  indignation,  reported  that  the  facts  as  they  had  encount- 
ered them  bore  little  resemblance  to  the  image  of  reality  as  presented  in 
the  stories  of  Horatio  Alger.  Besides  these  realists  there  emerged  a  succes- 
sion of  satirists  who  in  various  ways  attacked  middle  class  mores,  though 
not  always  from  the  same  standpoint.  Several  playwrights  also  made  per- 

1  See  W.  D.  Howells,  Literary  Friends  and  Acquaintance  (1900),  passim. 

845 


846  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

sistent  and  brilliant  incursions  into  the  strongholds  of  pretentiousness  and 
sham. 


Jack  London  (i  876-1 91 6)  supplied  a  portent  of  what  was  to  come. 
A  Californian,  born  of  a  nomadic  family,  he  was  little  affected  by  formal 
education,  and  not  much  more  by  his  voracious  and  undirected  reading. 
His  knowledge  was  acquired  from  what  Descartes  calls  "the  great  book 
of  the  world,"  or  more  specifically  from  his  experiences  as  an  unskilled 
laborer  on  the  San  Francisco  waterfront,  a  sailor  before  the  mast,  an  oyster 
pirate,  a  vagrant  who  wandered  some  ten  thousand  miles  without  visible 
resources,  and  a  gold  miner  in  the  first  rush  to  the  Klondike.  Out  of  his 
varied  and  vigorous  activities  London  drew  the  settings  of  his  stories.  His 
observations  also  made  him  a  confirmed  socialist  and  a  believer  in  revolu- 
tion. With  this  equipment  he  proceeded  to  write  forty-nine  books  in  the 
sixteen  years  of  his  journalistic  career. 

A  part  of  London's  work  may  be  classified  as  social  propaganda  based 
on  his  personal  adventures.  The  People  of  the  Abyss  (1903),  pictures  life 
in  the  slums  of  London  as  observed  in  the  course  of  six  weeks  in  an  East 
End  boardinghouse.  Martin  Eden  (1909)  describes  his  trials  and  errors  in 
learning  to  be  a  writer.  John  Barleycorn  (191 3)  consists  of  the  memoirs 
of  one  who  was  not  a  water-drinker.  But  the  books  that  gave  London 
his  great  contemporary  vogue,  both  in  the  United  States  and  abroad,  were 
those  in  which  he  celebrated  the  glory  of  stark  violence  and  savage  virility. 

One  of  his  early  characteristic  stories,  "An  Odyssey  of  the  North," 
appeared  with  unpremeditated  timeliness  in  the  Atlantic  for  January, 
1900,  and  in  the  same  year  formed  a  part  of  his  first  volume,  The  Son  of 
the  Wolf.  London's  tales  of  Alaskan  Indians  and  of  white  adventurers 
risking  the  grim  hazards  of  the  Arctic  sometimes  achieve  the  stinging 
factual  simplicity  of  "To  Build  a  Fire,"  which  recounts  without  a  false 
note  a  nightmarish  struggle  against  the  remorseless  cold  of  the  wastes. 
Other  stories  picture  human  motives  of  lust,  fanatic  hatred,  revenge,  or 
greed  which  match  the  forces  of  nature  in  their  implacability.  But  Lon- 
don had  little  sense  of  the  artistic  sincerity  of  his  work  and  was  never  un- 
willing to  combine  his  poetic  memories  of  the  great  open  spaces  with 
popular  and  highly  profitable  sentimentality.  The  white  girl  who  has 
gone  native  and  become  the  leader  of  an  Indian  tribe  recurs  in  several 
of  his  more  romantic  flights. 

In  a  number  of  his  novels  London  found  better,  though  never 
thoroughly  convincing  symbols  to  contain  his  longing  for  reversion  to  the 
primitive.  The  Call  of  the  Wild  (1903),  his  first  successful  book  and  in 
most  respects  his  masterpiece,  is  the  story  of  a  huge  dog  which  escapes 
from  an  Alaskan  dog-team  to  join  a  wolf-pack.  Though  Buck  carries 
with  him  a  good  many  human  faculties  which  no  animal  could  conceivably 


RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED  847 

possess,  he  serves  well  enough  as  a  poetic  dream-image  by  means  of  which 
the  author  can  express  his  joy  in  sheer  muscular  power  and  brute  fero- 
city. The  narrative  moves  through  a  succession  of  exciting  adventures 
of  the  robust  and  red-blooded  kind  that  perhaps  contributed  as  much  as 
anvthing  else  to  London's  popular  appeal.  The  Sea  Wolf  (1904),  White 
Fang,  (1906)  and  Before  Adam  (1906)  attempt  to  satisfy  the  author's  ap- 
petite for  strength  and  savagery  in  various  terms,  but  none  proved  more 
captivating  than  that  which  he  originally  invented. 


"There  was  a  submerged  American  world,"  writes  Carl  Van  Doren, 
"instinctive  and  undisciplined,  which  literature  had  passed  over."  2  Out 
of  this  gray  region,  not  of  active  misery  and  violence  but  of  stagnation 
and  unsuccess,  Theodore  Dreiser  (187 1-1946)  emerged  to  signalize  a 
decisive  change  in  the  tone  of  fiction.  Seldom  has  a  drastic  revolution 
been  accomplished  with  so  little  fanfare.  If  we  can  imagine  an  old-fash- 
ioned ladies'  sewing-circle,  decorously  exchanging  local  gossip  over  cakes 
and  tea,  suddenly  invaded  by  an  iceman  in  his  working  clothes,  who  en- 
ters without  embarrassment,  plants  himself  massively  in  the  middle  of 
the  sofa,  and  begins  to  regale  the  company  with  anecdotes  of  the  gas- 
house  district,  we  may  form  some  notion  of  the  effect  produced  by 
Dreiser's  first  novels.  It  took  a  full  decade  for  critics  to  realize  what  was 
going  on,  but  when  the  realization  came  the  nature  of  the  party  under- 
went a  complete  bonleversement. 

Nothing  in  Dreiser's  background  and  bringing  up  was  calculated  to 
inspire  respect  for  the  "linen  decencies"  either  of  society  or  of  fiction. 
His  father  and  mother  were  of  German  stock,  too  poor  to  support  the 
brood  of  children  they  brought  into  the  world,  and  narrowly  pious  in 
their  outlook.  From  Terre  Haute,  Indiana,  where  young  Dreiser  was  born, 
the  family  drifted  to  other  towns  as  opportunities  of  employment  or  the 
pressure  of  debts  impelled  them.  From  the  parents'  bigotry  the  more 
vigorous  children  reacted  sharply.  An  elder  brother  of  the  novelist,  who 
called  himself  Paul  Dresser,  attained  a  flashy  success  as  a  vaudeville  actor 
and  an  author  of  popular  songs.  The  first  woman  with  any  pretentions  to 
elegance  whom  Theodore  knew  was  a  local  harlot  then  his  brother's 
mistress.  She  befriended  the  family  in  at  least  one  crisis  of  debt,  while 
the  rigidly  righteous  showed  every  inclination  to  let  them  starve.  One 
of  the  Dreiser  girls  went  to  live  with  a  married  man  and  successfully 
established  herself  in  New  York.  To  the  slow  deliberate  mind  of  the 
future  novelist  it  seemed  that  the  moralism  he  had  been  taught  was  flatly 
contradicted  by  the  facts  within  his  range  of  observation.  He  cherished 
his  own  dreams  of  glittering  material  success,  the  only  goal  in  life  that 
had  any  tangible  meaning  for  him. 

2  Carl  Van  Doren,  The  American  Novel  (1940),  p.  247. 


848  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Meanwhile  he  had  gone  through  high  school  and  a  year  in  Indiana  Uni- 
versity and  had  worked  as  a  newspaper  man  in  St.  Louis,  Chicago,  and  a 
number  of  smaller  places.  Reading  in  Huxley,  Tyndall,  and  Herbert 
Spencei  equipped  him  with  a  vaguely  rationalistic  notion  of  vast  cosmic 
forces  which  determined  human  destinies  without  reason  or  plan.  In  such 
a  universe  the  only  sensible  attitude  for  the  individual  would  be  to  seize 
whatever  gratifications  lay  within  his  reach.  For  a  detached  observer  of 
the  human  lot  the  most  appropriate  emotion  would  be  pity.  Such  were 
Dreiser's  intellectual  resources  when  at  the  suggestion  of  a  friend  he 
scrawled  across  the  top  of  a  page  the  words  "Sister  Carrie"  and  com- 
menced writing  his  first  novel. 

The  substance  of  the  story  lay  ready  to  his  hand.  His  sister  had  been 
just  such  a  working  girl  as  Carrie  Meeber,  and  like  her  had  unresistingly 
run  off  with  the  man  who  could  offer  her  life  on  economically  glamorous 
terms.  His  father's  descent  in  the  social  scale  must  have  furnished  some 
hints  for  the  decline  of  Hurstwood.  His  brother  Paul's  success  on  the 
stage  was  as  meaningless  as  Carrie's.  In  the  novel  Dreiser  honestly  com- 
bined these  elements  of  fact  without  trying  to  interpret  them  or  to  gloss 
them  over.  This,  to  his  own  knowledge,  was  what  life  amounted  to.  These 
pitiful  mites  in  the  cosmic  cheese  were  men  and  women  as  they  actually 
were.  Siste?  Carrie  was  published  after  a  fashion  in  1900,  but  because  of 
reluctance  on  the  part  of  its  publishers  was  not  advertized  or  effectively 
circulated.  It  remained  comparatively  unknown  until  after  the  publica- 
tion of  Dreiser's  second  novel. 

In  Jennie  Gerhardt  ( 191 1 )  he  again  flouted  genteel  assumptions  by 
picturing  a  woman  of  easy  virtue  as  morally  superior  to  the  technically 
good  people  of  the  book.  Jennie,  who  has  been  seduced  by  Senator  Bran- 
der  and  has  borne  a  child,  after  his  death  becomes  the  mistress  of  Lester 
Kane,  whom  she  devotedly  loves.  His  family  attempts  to  break  off  the 
liaison,  and  when  Jennie  learns  that  her  lover's  future  depends  on  their 
separation,  she  insists  that  he  leave  her  and  marry  the  nice  girl  who  is 
waiting  for  him.  Here  for  once  Dreiser  has  created  a  character  who  has 
the  backbone  to  make  a  decision  against  her  own  interest.  The  novel, 
consequently,  is  in  some  ways  his  best  by  virtue  of  being  his  least  repre- 
sentative book. 

Dreiser  next  proceeded  to  portray  the  life  of  a  gaudy  and  unscrupulous 
tycoon,  the  actual  Charles  T.  Yerkes,  in  an  intended  trilogy,  of  which 
the  third  part  was  not  published  until  after  his  death.  The  Financier 
(191 2)  and  The  Titan  (19 14)  show  Frank  Cowperwood  rising  to  success 
in  business  and  eventually  building  a  financial  empire  out  of  street-rail- 
road systems  by  methods  which  foi  low  cunning  and  brutality  match 
the  populai  conception  of  trogloditic  mentality.  A4eanwhile  he  surrounds 
himself  with  many  expensive  possessions,  including  a  succession  of  wives 
and  mistresses  as  casually  acquired  as  his  artistic  booty.  As  from  time  to 


RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED  849 

time  Dreiser  comments  on  Frank's  material  success,  there  is  no  hint  that  he 
might  suffer  from  a  sense  of  interior  emptiness.  Instead  we  are  led  to  as- 
sume that  in  lending  himself  to  the  "chemisms"  that  determine  his  course 
Frank  has  fulfilled  all  the  conditions  of  a  satisfying  life. 

Much  the  same  conclusion  is  reached  when  Dreiser  studies  the  career 
of  a  supposedly  gifted  painter  in  The  'Genius''  (19 15).  The  data  that 
interest  Dreiser  are  exclusively  the  material  rewards  of  genius  and  the 
women  that  are  unable  to  withstand  its  lure.  How  the  painter  earns  his 
position  in  the  world  of  art,  how  he  finds  time  to  paint  any  pictures  even, 
are  things  not  disclosed.  What  Dreiser  sees  as  characteristic  of  achieve- 
ment in  the  arts  are  precisely  the  flashy  advantages  that  accrued  to  his 
brother  as  a  successful  writer  of  popular  songs,  and  nothing  more.  For  him 
all  rewards  are  external. 

For  the  decade  between  191 5  and  1925  Dreiser  produced  no  more 
novels,  but  experimented  with  short  stories,  dramas,  and  autobiographical 
sketches.  Free,  and  Other  Stories  (19 18)  and  Twelve  Men  (19 19)  con- 
tain some  of  his  best  writing,  since  his  verbosity  was  limited  by  the 
necessary  compression  of  the  shorter  forms  of  fiction.  A  Traveler  at 
Forty  (191 3),  A  Hoosier  Holiday  (19 16),  A  Book  about  Myself  (1922), 
and  the  later  Dawn  ( 193 1 )  are  invaluable  for  their  testimony  to  his  naive 
candor. 

Dreiser's  most  extended  novel,  and  perhaps  his  masterpiece,  An  Ameri- 
can Tragedy  (1925),  exhaustively  traces  the  events  leading  to  a  stupid 
murder  and  to  the  legal  execution  of  the  feckless  youth  who  has  com- 
mitted the  crime.  Clyde  Griffiths  is  a  very  ordinary  boy  who  dreams  ro- 
mantically of  attaining  wealth  and  social  position  without  any  conception 
of  how  such  things  are  to  be  obtained.  His  undisciplined  urges  of  the 
flesh  lead  him  to  form  a  connection  with  Roberta,  a  factory  girl,  while 
he  hopes  to  marry  Sondra,  who  represents  for  him  the  world  of  the 
social  elite.  Roberta,  after  telling  him  that  she  is  pregnant,  is  drowned 
when  their  rowboat  upsets,  and  Clyde,  if  he  did  not  deliberately  contrive 
her  death,  at  least  makes  no  effort  to  save  her.  He  is  promptly  indicted 
for  murder,  and  after  a  sensational  trial  where  all  pretense  of  decency  is 
lost  in  the  clamor  for  publicity,  is  condemned  and  executed. 

After  the  author's  death  appeared  The  Bulwark  (1946),  a  novel  long 
meditated  and  even  so  not  completely  finished  to  the  author's  satisfaction. 
In  it  Dreiser  attempts  to  express  the  pathos  of  his  father's  rigid  religiosity. 
Solon  Barnes,  a  member  of  the  Society  of  Friends,  prides  himself  on 
being  "a  bulwark  of  the  faith"  and  is  supported  by  his  devoted  wife 
Benecia.  From  the  sternness  of  his  Quaker  beliefs  some  of  his  children 
revolt  and  go  their  own  ways  in  spite  of  their  parents'  efforts  to  control 
them.  The  point  of  view  in  this  novel  is  somewhat  less  colored  by  the 
law  of  the  jungle  than  that  in  the  Frank  Cowperwood  series.  Professor 
Robert  E.  Spiller  even  hailed  the  book  as  "an  answer  in  faith  to  the 


850  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

spiritual  doubt  of  his  best  work."  3  But  probably  Dreiser  himself  did  not 
greatly  change.  He  merely  shifted  his  emphases  to  suit  a  new  type  of 
material. 

Fastidious  readers  were  at  first  repelled  from  Dreiser's  novels  as  much 
by  his  clumsv  and  blundering  workmanship  as  bv  his  naturalistic  ideology. 
Though  great  writers— Sir  Walter  Scott,  for  example— have  sometimes 
been  guilty  of  incredibly  bad  writing,  none  have  ever  attained  a  badness 
comparable  to  Dreiser's.  Apparently  the  man  was  completely  insensitive 
to  the  values  of  words  and  indifferent  to  the  construction  of  sentences. 
When  Frank  Cowperwood  has  first  accepted  the  "hymeneal  yoke,"  his 
creator  draws  this  picture  of  him  as  (temporarily)  an  "ideal  home  man." 

This  thought  of  his  wife's  cottage,  and  her  in  it,  cheered  him  greatly.  She  was 
so  nice  in  it.  He  delighted  to  fondle  her  body  evenings;  and,  leaving  the 
crowded  down-town  section  where  traffic  clamored  and  men  hurried  in  a 
great  stress  of  effort,  he  would  come  out  through  the  dusk  of  the  evening  to 
this  spot  where  were  vines,  in  season,  and  a  charming  view  of  the  river 
spreading  wide  and  gray  in  dark  weather,  or  leaden  blue  and  silver  in  bright, 

and  feel  that  he  was  well  stationed  and  physically  happy  in  life To  live 

richly,  joyously,  fulsomely— his  whole  nature  craved  that.4 

Dreiser  steadily  refused  to  revise  his  work  when  his  elementary  mistakes 
were  pointed  out.  Little  by  little  it  dawned  on  critics  that  the  writer's 
ineptitude  must  be  regarded  as  a  part  of  his  massive  honesty  and  be 
accepted  as  one  would  accept  variations  from  normal  usage  on  the  part 
of  a  dialect  writer.  Just  such  a  picture,  in  just  such  words,  life  presented 
to  his  imagination.  Critics  could  take  it  or  leave  it. 

If  such  a  book  as  An  American  Tragedy  is  read  as  an  ordinary  novel 
about  an  individual  hero,  it  is  tedious  and  practically  unreadable.  But  it  is 
not  intended  to  be  so  taken.  Its  subject  is  not  the  fortunes  of  the  wretched 
Clyde  Griffiths,  but  the  nature  of  modern  materialism  which  drives  men 
like  sensate  particles  to  their  doom.  The  author  of  such  a  work  no  more 
looks  for  special  qualities  in  the  individual  who  illustrates  his  thesis  than  a 
physicist  looks  for  wisdom  and  self-control  in  the  ions  he  is  observing. 
Dreiser  regards  the  spectacle  of  human  behavior  as  the  recording  angel 
might  view  it  if  he  possessed  an  exceptionally  powerful  microscope.  All 
distinctions  of  strong  and  weak,  good  and  evil,  wise  and  foolish  are 
obliterated  by  the  immensity  of  the  cosmic  perspective,  and  there  is  no 
need  to  focus  on  a  Macbeth  or  a  Lear  when  any  specimen  of  the  race  will 
do  as  well.  The  point  for  Dreiser's  followers,  at  least,  is  that  he  has 
achieved  a  way  of  regarding  life  which  they  consider  "modern"  and 
"scientific,"  in  that  it  emphasizes  the  healthy  or  unhealthy  condition  of 
the  masses  rather  than  the  individual.  He  has  attained,  they  would  claim, 

8  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  29  (March  23,  1946),  p.  23. 

4  Theodore  Dreiser,  The  Financier  (191 2.  Quoted  by  permission  of  Mrs.  Theodore 
Dreiser),  p.   115. 


RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED  851 

a  Miltonic  largeness  by  taking  for  his  subject  the  nature  of  mankind  in  the 

large. 


The  naturalistic  assumptions  of  Dreiser  have  been  still  more  systema- 
tically applied  to  the  pictures  of  life  in  Chicago's  South  Side  drawn  by 
James  T.  Farreil  (1904-  ).  To  date  his  fiction  is  mainly  comprised  of 
two  series  of  novels:  a  trilogy  centered  on  Studs  Lonigan,  a  vivid  Irish 
youth  whose  capacities  are  defeated  by  the  squalid  and  criminal  environ- 
ment which  is  all  that  a  modern  American  big  city  has  to  offer  to  boys  of 
his  class;  and  a  continuum  of  four  long  novels,  beginning  with  A  World 
I  Never  Made  (1936),5  tracing  the  boyhood  experiences  of  Danny  O'Neill, 
who  like  Farrell  himself  manages  to  escape  from  the  drift  toward  degen- 
eration that  has  overtaken  most  members  of  his  family.  In  these  seven 
books  Farrell  has  documented  the  rise  of  the  Irish  immigrant  from  shanty 
to  steam-heated  apartment  with  a  minuteness  that  testifies  both  to  his 
honesty  and  to  his  inability  to  distinguish  between  the  important  and  the 
trivial.  Farrell  has  also  written  Gas-House  McGinty  (1933),  which  depicts 
the  grinding  routine  of  the  employees  in  an  express  office,  and  from  time 
to  time  he  has  supplemented  his  longer  books  by  collections  of  short 
stories  similar  in  tone  and  substance  and  by  critical  essays. 

A  conservative  and  classical  critic  would  no  doubt  declare  that  Farrell 
has  undertaken  to  interpret  human  life  with  insufficient  awareness  of  its 
tragic  implications.  A  happy  destiny  is  the  lot  of  few  men  in  any  era. 
Always,  as  the  poet  laments,  "quick  bright  things  come  to  confusion." 
The  spangle  of  existence  wastes  itself  in  disease,  insanity,  crime,  poverty, 
and  war.  To  this  a  neo-Marxian  like  Farrell  would  probably  reply  with 
some  heat  that  it  is  high  time  society  made  effective  use  of  the  resources 
and  techniques  now  at  its  disposal  to  lessen  if  not  to  abolish  the  immemorial 
miseries  of  man.  The  characters  to  whom  his  books  introduce  us  with  the 
painstaking  precision  of  the  stream-of-consciousness  method  are  people 
whose  originally  normal  instincts  have  been  warped  or  stifled  by  forces 
they  neither  control  nor  even  comprehend.  To  contrast  what  they  might 
have  been  with  what  they  actually  become  stirs  us  to  pity  and  indignation, 
the  emotions  which  in  the  modern  world  have  replaced  pity  and  fear  as 
the  appropriate  response  to  tragic  catastrophe.  In  his  urgency  that  some- 
thing be  done  to  alleviate  the  sum  of  woe  Farrell  goes  a  step  further  than 
Dreiser. 


Largely  from  aliens  who  could  neither  share  nor  respect  the  obsession  of 
material  prosperity  on  which  the  American  system  was  based  came  the 

5  Sidney  Kingsley's  The  World  We  Make  (1939),  an  adaptation  for  the  stage  of  a 
novel  by  Millen  Brand,  reads  like  a  conscious  answer  to  Farrell. 


852  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

most  effective  attacks  on  the  idols  of  the  market  place.  Even  before 
Dreiser  and  others  had  begun  to  record  the  cost  to  human  nature  of  an 
exclusive  concern  for  profits  and  possessions,  the  philosophy  of  American 
business  was  riddled  by  the  mordant  ironies  of  Thorstein  Veblen  ( 1857- 
1929),  who  with  the  industry  of  a  termite  outbored  the  most  boring  of 
professional  economists.  His  most  trenchant  assault  on  the  values  of  an 
acquisitive  society,  The  Theory  of  the  Leisure  Class  (1899),  may  be 
described  as  the  opening  gun  in  the  siege  of  bourgeois  mentality  by  the 
intellectuals,  a  siege  which  has  to  date  resulted  only  in  an  enormous 
strengthening  of  the  forts  of  folly.  Veblen,  however,  succeeded  in 
demolishing  some  of  the  minor  outposts  of  complacency.  Hitherto  the 
American  businessman  had  plumed  himself  on  his  contributions  to  society. 
He  was  caught  unprepared  and  smartly  outflanked  when  Veblen  charac- 
terized the  larger  portion  of  his  activities  as  "non-productive  expenditure 
of  time,"  and  identified  the  successful  beneficiaries  of  commerce  not 
merely  as  representative  of  the  dominant  type  of  American  but  also  as 
members  of  a  new  leisure  class. 

Many  of  the  observations  that  Veblen  recorded  in  his  satiric  analysis  of 
a  materially  minded  culture  were  gathered  from  his  own  experience  as  a 
frustrated  intellectual.  He  was  born  of  Norwegian  parents  in  Wisconsin, 
and  though  he  duly  earned  a  Ph.D.  at  Yale,  he  long  remained  an  academic 
Ishmael.  Orthodox  economists  were  deeply  annoyed  to  hear  his  gypsy 
laughter  from  the  bushes.  They  were  not  pleased  by  his  candor  when  he 
reminded  them  that  if  thev  ate  the  industrial  magnate's  bread  they  were 
bound  to  serve  his  interests.  It  was  perhaps  damaging  to  their  professional 
prestige  that  a  regular  economist  like  Stephen  Leacock  of  McGill  should 
produce  popular  humor  in  his  spare  time,  but  at  least  you  could  tell  with 
him  what  was  humor  and  what  was  economics.  With  Veblen  people  could 
never  be  sure.  What  purported  to  be  a  serious  treatise  might  turn  out  to 
be  a  burlesque  of  academic  pomposity. 

While  he  held  posts  and  ineffectually  taught  at  the  University  of 
Chicago,  Stanford,  the  University  of  Missouri,  and  the  New  School  for 
Social  Research  in  New  York,  Veblen  developed  in  half  a  dozen  volumes 
his  realistic  and  functional  approach  to  the  science  of  economics.  He  was 
radical  in  his  imaginative  grasp  of  the  truth  that  man's  institutions  possess 
in  themselves  no  inherent  sanctity  but  are  merely  the  implements  by  means 
of  which  he  achieves  his  ends.  The  important  question,  as  Thoreau  had 
also  perceived,  was  whether  men  intended  to  get  the  work  of  the  world 
well  and  honestly  done,  or  whether  they  were  furtively  looking  for 
opportunities  to  enrich  themselves  while  making  a  specious  pretense  of 
saving  society.  When  economic  motives  were  dissected  by  Veblen's 
scalpel,  they  frequently  lost  the  dignity  that  classic  economic  theory  had 
bestowed  upon  them  and  turned  out  to  be  nothing  more  than  the  old  wolf 
of  greed  in  a  new  sheepish  disguise.  Naturally  a  college  president  with  a 


RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED  853 

rising  university  on  his  hands  could  find  little  use  for  thinking  of  this 
caliber. 

Veblen's  foreignness  and  his  personal  bitterness  resulted  in  a  cramped 
and  gnome-like  habit  of  expression,  which  he  could  sometimes  effectively 
exploit  as  one  of  the  major  sources  of  irritation  in  passages  meant  to  be 
offensive  to  his  readers.  He  was  likewise  a  master  of  devious  implication, 
pungent  epigram,  and  adhesive  phrases  that  clung  like  leeches  to  the 
bloated  form  of  capitalism.  But  though  Communists  praised  him  for  his 
attacks  on  the  status  quo,  Veblen  was  not  a  A4arxian  revolutionist.  It 
would  not  have  been  difficult  for  him  to  envision  in  a  hypothetical  future 
a  still  more  objectionable  leisure  class  arising  from  the  labor  movement. 
What  he  loathed  was  the  itch  for  unearned  rewards  which  he  saw  corrupt- 
ing American  society  from  top  to  bottom.  To  counteract  the  forces  of 
decay  he  could  find  nothing  more  effective  than  an  appeal  to  pride  of 
craftsmanship,  and  this  he  realized  was  insufficient.  Hence  behind  his  acrid 
wit  and  perverse  ironies  we  can  sense  the  presence  of  a  profound  despair. 


There  was  nothing  despairful  in  the  literary  clowning  of  Henry  Louis 
Mencken  (1880-  ),  which  achieved  a  temporary  vogue  in  the  decade 
after  the  First  World  War.  Robustious  and  dogmatic,  he  celebrated  the 
twilight  of  the  "booboisie"  with  more  than  Wagnerian  elan.  He  upset  all 
the  applecarts  and  charged  through  all  the  china  shops,  bellowing  his 
impatience  of  all  restraint  and  exulting  in  the  triumph  of  the  ego.  While 
scornful  of  any  intellectual  constructions  more  subtle  than  the  statement 
that  two  and  two  make  four  and  doubtful  whether  civilization  could  offer 
any  values  above  the  level  of  the  beer  cellar,  Mencken  shouted  his  approval 
of  musicians  and  writers  who  were  best  calculated  to  perplex  the  un- 
initiated and  infuriate  the  stodgy.  For  years  he  collected  instances  of  folly 
and  absurdity  from  the  daily  press  to  serve  rechauffe  as  "Americana,"  and 
small-town  businessmen  who  wished  to  acquire  an  easy  gloss  of  sophistica- 
tion provided  him  with  an  unfailing  audience.  Possibly  his  pyrotechnics 
cast  a  fitful  illumination,  but  they  also  left  the  landscape  littered  with 
much  waste  paper. 

Mencken  owed  no  allegiance  to  the  British  strain  in  American  culture, 
still  less  to  a  Puritan  tradition  which  he  could  neither  tolerate  nor  under- 
stand. His  family  was  of  German  extraction,  and  both  his  arrogance  and 
his  bad  taste  were  clearly  "made  in  Germany."  Trained  in  journalism 
about  the  turn  of  the  century,  he  remained  an  editorial  writer  on  the 
Baltimore  Sun  for  the  better  part  of  his  active  life.  As  literary  critic  of  the 
Smart  Set,  beginning  in  1908,  and  later  as  editor  with  George  Jean  Nathan 
of  the  same  magazine,  Mencken  attracted  a  wider  public,  which  was  still 
further  extended  when  the  pair  founded  The  American  Mercury  in  1923. 
The  ensuing  decade  saw  Mencken's  reputation  at  its  height,  and  while  the 


854  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

going  was  good  he  poured  forth  opus  after  opus.  His  most  characteristic 
essays  were  collected  in  the  six  series  of  his  Prejudices  (1919-27). 

Besides  his  very  considerable  activity  as  an  editor  and  a  feuilletonist, 
Mencken  has  made  a  hobby  of  studying  the  tergiversations  of  the  English 
language  in  the  United  States.  His  interest  bore  fruit  in  a  work  of  re- 
spectable linguistic  scholarship,  The  American  Language  (19 19),  which 
with  its  several  enlargements  and  annexes  remains  his  most  lasting  monu- 
ment.  As  a  literary  critic  Aiencken  was  an  early  defender  of  Theodore 
Dreiser  and  a  vigorous  champion  of  James  Branch  Cabell  and  Sinclair 
Lewis.  The  dust  of  his  battles  has  long  since  settled. 


Of  all  Mencken's  preferred  authors  the  talent  most  akin  to  his  own  was 
that  of  Sinclair  Lewis  (1 885-1 951),  who  came  to  New  York  from  the 
hinterland  of  Minnesota,  taking  in  Yale  with  some  intervals  of  vagabond- 
age en  route.  After  serving  as  a  publisher's  reader,  free-lancing  for 
magazines,  and  producing  five  inconspicuous  novels,  Lewis  gained  na- 
tional prominence  with  the  publication  of  Main  Street  (1920).  The  germ 
of  this  novel  had  been  composed  about  1905,  but  the  impulse  that  led  to 
its  final  creation  is  said  to  have  been  imparted  by  an  astute  New  York 
publisher,  who  decided  that  the  time  had  come  for  a  culminating  satire  on 
the  American  small  town  and  selected  young  Mr.  Lewis  to  do  the  job. 
Given  the  prescribed  title  and  tone,  Lewis  simplv  turned  on  the  faucet  of 
an  inexhaustible  mimicry,  leaving  it  to  his  publisher  to  check  the  flow 
when  enough  had  run  to  make  a  profitable  book. 

The  picture  of  Gopher  Prairie  as  seen  through  the  eyes  of  a  pseudo- 
sophisticated  young  bride  turned  out  to  be  a  recognizable  caricature  of 
the  great  majority  of  small  communities  in  all  the  states  of  the  Union.  It 
was  received  with  delight  by  readers  in  every  village,  who  were  im- 
mensely tickled  to  find  the  stupidities  of  their  neighbors  immortalized  in 
print.  A  more  searching  criticism  discerned  that  beneath  the  sardonic 
surface  the  author  was  emotionally  identified  with  the  very  creatures 
whom  he  attacked.  In  truth  the  attitudes  cultivated  bv  Carol  Kennicott, 
which  are  assumed  to  be  superior  to  the  herd  mentality  of  the  countrv 
town,  are  something  of  a  take-off  on  the  current  outlook  of  a  Greenwich 
Village  even  more  patterned  than  Gopher  Prairie.  In  the  end  the  reader 
is  left  with  more  respect  for  Dr.  Kennicott's  commonplace  acceptance  of 
life  as  he  finds  it  than  for  Carol's  finicking  distaste.  She  is,  in  fact,  a  very 
poor  specimen  of  a  light-bringer.  The  novel,  however,  was  saved  by 
Lewis's  mimetic  gusto,  which  held  up  to  laughter  the  human  failings  that 
have  always  been  fair  game  for  the  fun-maker. 

In  Babbitt  (1922)  and  Arrovcsmith  (1925)  Lewis  scored  two  further 
successes.  The  first  was  accepted  at  once  as  a  classic  burlesque  of  the 
average  American  businessman  and  the  social  milieu  of  a  medium-sized 


RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED  855 

city.  No  longer  was  the  Middle  Western  man  of  affairs  the  rough  diamond 
seeking  polish  that  Henry  James  had  made  him  out  to  be.  Lewis  exposed 
with  ruthless  precision  the  standardized  routine  of  George  F.  Babbitt's 
daily  round  and  the  no  less  standardized  mentality  which  the  booster's 
cult  enforced  upon  him.  With  small  regard  for  psychological  probabilities 
Babbitt  is  then  pictured  as  at  once  a  stifled  individualist  and  a  man  whose 
nature  craves  protective  association  with  his  kind.  His  pathetic  and  clumsy 
efforts  to  assert  himself  inevitably  collapse,  and  in  the  end  he  rather  melo- 
dramatically passes  the  burden  of  achieving  a  free  life  to  his  son.  As  in 
Main  Street  the  incidental  byplay  of  Babbitt  proved  to  be  more  impressive 
than  the  central  conception.  Long  after  the  incidents  of  the  story  have 
been  forgotten,  the  impression  of  Babbitt's  great  speech  to  his  fellow- 
boosters  remains  fresh  in  memory. 

The  obstacles  that  confront  a  man  of  science  in  a  society  devoted  to 
the  pursuit  of  material  success  supply  the  theme  of  Arrowsmith.  It  is  a 
great  theme,  and  in  developing  it  Lewis  came  as  near  as  he  has  ever  come 
to  transcending  his  talent  for  easy  satire  and  becoming  a  serious  artist. 
In  Max  Gottlieb  he  created  a  memorable  portrait  of  a  wise  and  mellow 
scientist,  an  intellectual  who  possesses  the  mordant  wit  and  the  timeless 
patience  of  the  European  Jew.  Martin's  first  wife,  Leora,  moreover,  is  a 
clever  creation,  embodying  the  ideal  of  woman  as  uncomplaining  cushion 
that  strongly  appeals  to  men  who  wish  to  mate  without  deflecting  any 
more  of  their  attention  than  necessary  from  their  professional  interests. 
She  is  first  discovered  on  her  knees  before  her  future  husband,  and  she 
remains  symbolically  in  the  same  position  as  long  as  it  suits  the  author  to 
let  her  live.  In  Arrowsmith  himself  Lewis  has  produced  only  a  lay  figure 
through  whose  experiences  he  is  enabled  to  portray  various  aspects  of 
medical  practice  in  the  United  States.  Often  the  author's  satire  is  skillfully 
pointed,  but  at  the  expense  ultimately  of  his  book's  success  as  a  novel.  It 
trails  off  through  a  series  of  weaker  and  weaker  episodes  to  a  doctrinaire 
finish. 

If  in  Arrowsmith  Lewis  narrowly  missed  becoming  an  artist  in  spite  of 
himself,  in  Elmer  Gantry  (1927),  Dodsuoorth  (1929),  and  subsequent 
volumes  the  miss  was  as  good  as  a  mile.  Though  by  1930  he  had  conclu- 
sively demonstrated  the  barrenness  of  his  gift  for  novel  writing,  he  was  in 
that  year  awarded  a  Nobel  Prize  for  literature,  being  the  first  American 
author  to  be  so  honored.  His  selection  remains  one  of  time's  little  ironies. 


Inevitably  the  stage  supplemented  the  satire  of  middle-class  types  found 
in  fiction.  In  fact  several  of  the  more  popular  novels  were  promptly  drama- 
tized. Zona  Gale,  for  example,  immediately  dramatized  Miss  Lulu  Bett 
(1920),  adding  one  more  to  the  many  plays  in  which  an  incipiently  "free" 
character  revolts  against  the  dull  emptiness  of  a  standardized  and  meaning- 


856  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

less  routine.  A  still  more  sophisticated  attack  on  provincialism  and  rotarian 
culture  provided  the  staple  for  two  early  plays  by  Marc  Connelly  and 
George  Kaufman,  Dulcy  (1921)  and  To  the  Ladies  (1922).  The  first  is  an 
exhaustive  exposure  of  a  well-meaning  but  cliche-mouthing  woman,  who 
nearly  wrecks  her  husband's  career  by  her  appalling  insensitiveness.  The 
second  introduces  us  again  to  the  society  of  Babbitts  and  boosters,  but  in 
this  instance  it  is  a  clever  young  wife  who  rises  superior  to  the  environ- 
ment in  which  her  husband  is  engulfed.  In  their  stage  version  of  Harry 
Leon  Wilson's  Merton  of  the  Movies  (1922)  Connelly  and  Kaufman  again 
held  up  to  ridicule  the  typical  American  institutions  which  threaten  to 
become  the  gods  of  the  plain  man's  idolatry. 

The  most  determined  assailant  of  entrenched  sham  and  pretentious 
stupidity  was  George  Kelly  (1887-  ),  an  actor  whose  success  in  the 
production  of  vaudeville  skits  led  him  to  the  writing  of  full-length  plays. 
His  first  decided  hit,  The  Torch-Bearers  (1922),  made  uproarious  fun  of 
the  social  snobbery  that  sometimes  gets  mixed  up  with  amateur  theatricals, 
particularly  in  connection  with  movements  to  elevate  the  stage.  The 
Show-Off  (1924)  attained  a  deeper  significance  in  painting  the  boastful 
Aubrey  Piper  and  setting  him  in  the  kind  of  environment  that  encourages 
a  man  of  his  type  to  flourish.  Kelly's  most  powerful  play,  Craig's  Wife 
(1925),  the  winner  of  a  Pulitzer  Prize,  went  beyond  satire  to  reveal  the 
inner  sterility  of  a  domineering  woman  who  is  willing  to  sacrifice  all  her 
human  relationships  in  the  effort  to  keep  her  household  possessions  intact. 
Daisy  Mayme  (1926)  and  Behold  the  Bridegroom  (1927)  intensified  still 
further  the  playwright's  bitter  resentment  of  vulgarity  and  his  hatred  of 
injustice.  The  slightly  abnormal  flavor  of  Timonism  in  these  latter  plays 
discouraged  play-goers,  with  the  result  that  Kelly's  talents  were  soon 
absorbed  in  the  lucrative  journey  work  of  Hollywood. 

After  a  rather  long  interval  Kelly  returned  to  the  writing  of  legitimate 
drama  with  The  Deep  Mrs.  Sykes  ( 1945)  and  The  Fatal  Weakness  ( 1946). 
The  first  mentioned  is  a  really  profound  study  of  the  dominating  woman, 
that  inexhaustible  theme,  and  contains  a  scene  between  father  and  son  that 
is  one  of  the  best  that  this  playwright  has  ever  achieved.  A  return  from 
the  Hollywood  otherworld  is  such  a  rare  phenomenon  that  the  recrudes- 
cence of  a  first-rate  dramatist  deserves  to  be  signalized. 


Chapter  44 


IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS 

No  single  cause  can  be  assigned  for  the  emphasis  placed  on  novelties  of 
form  and  technique  by  many  twentieth-century  American  writers.  The 
desire  to  achieve  difference  at  any  cost,  to  break  with  tradition  and  to 
follow  new  directions,  was  no  doubt  stimulated  by  the  general  restlessness 
of  a  time  of  wars  and  rumors  of  war.  The  same  tendencies  were  felt  in 
France  and  England  before  they  manifested  themselves  in  the  United 
States,  and  the  experimental  movement  in  this  country  may  have  been 
due  in  part  to  literary  imitation.1  But  even  without  influences  from  abroad 
a  reaction  against  the  Victorian  fashion  of  making  literature  serve  moral, 
political,  and  social  ends  was  bound  to  occur.  For  a  long  period  the  purely 
artistic  side  of  literature  had  been  minimized.  The  dominance  of  scientific 
thinking  exalted  the  analytic  reason  as  the  favored  mode  of  apprehending 
experience,  till  even  the  arts  adapted  themselves  perforce  to  literalness  and 
were  judged  as  vehicles  for  the  conveying  of  meanings  comparable  to 
scientific  conclusions.  The  possibilities  of  oblique  expression  were  gen- 
erally neglected.  But  after  Whitman  and  Henry  James,  an  increasing 
number  of  writers  discovered  the  limitations  of  direct  statement  and  set 
themselves  to  explore  various  devices  for  expressing  through  suggestion, 
paradox,  and  symbol  perceptions  which  could  not  be  handled  in  literal 
terms.  The  resultant  emphasis  on  technical  virtuosity  inaugurated  a  period 
of  literary  decadence. 

Decadent  traits  have  been  well  described  by  John  Addington  Symonds 
as  "an  intense  self-consciousness,  a  restless  curiosity  in  research,  an  over- 
stabilizing  refinement  upon  refinement,  a  spiritual  and  moral  perversity." 
These  symptoms  showed  themselves  in  the  French  Symbolist  movement 
from  Baudelaire  to  Rimbaud,  while  in  England  such  writers  as  Oscar 
Wilde,  Ernest  Dowson,  James  Thomson,  and  John  Davidson  illustrated  a 
less  coherent  response  to  the  new  urges.  The  collapse  of  a  central  philoso- 

1  Among  critical  and  historical  accounts  of  experimental  tendencies,  see  especially 
Edmund  Wilson,  Axel's  Castle  ( 193 1),  and  Oscar  Cargill,  Intellectual  America  (1941). 

857 


858  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

phy  and  the  general  weakening  of  religious  faith  led  as  usual  to  an  out- 
burst of  tangential  explorations. 

In  the  United  States  the  decadence  was  prepared  for  by  a  time  of 
esthetic  apathy,  a  kind  of  twilight  age  of  indifference  to  the  arts.  The  ro- 
bust barbarism  of  thriving  American  communities  felt  no  need  for  the 
cultivation  of  literary  sensibilities.  Anyone  who  had  a  taste  for  such  re- 
finements could  read  the  popular  romances  of  Paul  Leicester  Ford,  Charles 
Major,  and  Harold  Bell  Wright  or  the  sentimental  Hoosier  lyrics  of  James 
Whitcomb  Riley.  Public  opinion  regarded  a  poet  as  at  best  a  luxurious  ad- 
junct of  the  leisure  classes,  at  worst  as  an  irresponsible  freak  of  nature. 
Any  conception  of  art  as  fulfilling  a  human  need  or  as  supplying  a  disci- 
pline requisite  to  successful  living  was  completely  absent.  For  the  time 
being  the  country  was  content  to  rest,  unexercised  and  unbreathed,  in 
esthetic  sterility. 


The  writer  in  the  literary  doldrums  before  19 12  who  most  vigorously 
assailed  the  contemporary  lack  of  interest  in  the  arts  was  James  Gibbons 
Huneker  ( 1857-192 1),  a  journalist  from  Philadelphia  with  a  wild  Irish 
strain  in  his  blood,  who  came  to  the  New  York  Sun  in  1900  as  a  versatile 
critic  of  literature,  drama,  the  fine  arts,  and  music.  Himself  a  pianist 
trained  in  Paris,  Huneker  possessed  an  ebullient  zest  that  refused  to  be 
confined  to  consideration  of  a  single  art.  For  him  there  was  only  one  dis- 
tinction, that  between  arts  which  were  lively  and  those  which  were  not. 
He  was  always  ready  to  thump  the  drum  indiscriminately  for  the  latest 
novelist,  composer,  or  advanced  thinker  in  whom  he  could  detect  a  spark 
of  vitality.  He  was  sometimes  deceived  but  never  discouraged.  His  eclectic 
taste  reveled  in  novelties,  and  he  enjoyed  celebrating  each  week's  new 
discovery  in  lush  and  purple  prose,  which  could  at  times  become  voluptu- 
ous and  at  times  cloying. 

Beginning  with  the  critical  papers  collected  as  Mezzotints  in  Modern 
Music  (1899)  and  an  excellent  critical  biography  of  Chopin  (1900), 
Huneker  continued  to  assemble  groups  of  related  essays  culled  from  his 
newspaper  articles,  as  in  Iconoclasts:  A  Book  of  Dramatists  (1905)  and 
half  a  dozen  succeeding  volumes.  In  Old  Fogy  (1913)  and  Steeplejack 
(1920)  he  embodied  many  of  his  enthusiasms  in  autobiographical  narra- 
tives rendered  fascinating  by  his  unfailing  wit  and  his  endless  stock  of 
studio  gossip.  Just  before  his  death  he  was  pleased  to  shock  readers  who 
still  retained  some  respect  for  decorum  by  his  novel  Painted  Veils  (1920), 
a  New  York  vie  de  Boh  erne. 

Huneker's  essentially  reckless  and  ephemeral  talent,  his  immense  gusto 
for  food  and  drink  as  well  as  art,  and  his  powers  as  a  barroom  conversa- 
tionalist commended  him  to  H.  L.  Mencken,  whose  introduction  to  Essays 
by  James  Huneker  (1925)  rises  to  a  berserk  vehemence  of  appreciation.  It 


IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS  859 

is  clear  that  Huneker's  critical  standards  were  impressionistic,  and  that  his 
one  demand  of  a  work  of  art  was  comparable  to  the  alcoholic's  demand  of 
a  new  cocktail,  that  it  administer  a  previously  unregistered  jolt  to  the 
sensibilities.  The  surprise  of  novelty  was  the  one  thing  necessary  in  his 
view.  "To  spill  his  own  soul:  that  should  be  the  critic's  aim,"  he  declared, 
and  against  a  background  of  William  Winter  such  an  aim  did  not  appear 
as  naive  as  it  has  since  become.  Huneker's  soul  sloshed  over  promiscuously 
for  Huysmans,  Rimbaud,  Sudermann,  Maeterlinck,  Hauptmann,  Strind 
berg,  Stirner,  Richard  Strauss,  and  many,  many  others.  For  a  decade 
before  the  First  World  War  he  was  a  lonely  apostle  of  enlivenment 
through  art. 

The  impression  that  he  left  on  a  friend  and  admirer  has  been  well 
summarized  in  Mencken's  final  paragraph: 

His  criticism  had  the  florid  and  baroque  charm  of  the  man  himself:  it  was 
the  product  of  an  exuberant,  a  lavish  and  a  happy  soul.  It  had  the  shimmering 
surface  of  an  ornate  and  intricate  fabric,  and  beneath  there  was  a  great  richness. 
Despite  its  enormous  allusiveness,  it  was  never  a  mere  pastiche;  the  selection 
of  authorities,  Christian  and  heathen,  virtuous  and  wicked,  far  and  near,  was 
made  delicately,  discreetly,  with  unerring  taste  and  judgment.  And  in  the 
summing  up  there  was  always  the  clearest  possible  statement  of  the  whole 
matter,  with  a  gaudy  jest  to  drive  it  home.  What  finally  emerged  was  a  body 
of  doctrine  that  came,  I  believe,  very  close  to  the  truth.  It  seldom  shows  any 
sign  of  wearing  out;  it  remains,  in  all  essentials,  as  sound  today  as  when  it 
was  set  down.  Thus  Huneker  left  his  mark  upon  his  time.  No  man  could  have 
been  less  a  reformer  by  inclination,  and  yet  he  became  a  reformer  beyond 
compare.  He  emancipated  criticism  in  America  from  its  old  bondage  to 
sentimentality  and  stupidity,  and  with  it  he  emancipated  all  the  arts  themselves.2 


The  emancipation  of  poetry  in  practice  as  well  as  in  theory  was  under- 
taken by  Ezra  Pound  (1885-  ),  an  Idaho-born  and  Pennsylvania-reared 
intellectual,  who  after  sampling  the  academic  life  and  finding  it  uncon- 
genial, elected  to  make  himself  the  typical  literary  expatriate  of  his  genera- 
tion. Between  1908  and  1920  he  operated  in  London  as  a  kind  of  esthetic 
broker,  dealing  in  particular  with  poetry  but  occasionally  taking  fliers  in 
the  other  arts.  He  knew  all  the  editors  and  publishers  and  was  generously 
helpful  in  his  efforts  to  obtain  a  hearing  for  new  writers.  To  a  certain 
degree  he  was  successful  in  imposing  his  tastes  on  younger  men,  but  he 
possessed  neither  the  tact  nor  the  patience  to  occupy  a  position  of  leader- 
ship, except  in  the  sense  that  he  fastidiously  kept  one  jump  ahead  of  cur- 
rent fashions.  It  was  he  who  christened  the  Imagist  movement  and  brought 
together  the  group  responsible  for  Des  Imagistes  (19 14).  He  also  acted 
as  foreign  correspondent  for  Harriet  Monroe's  Poetry,  and  for  brief 

2  Essays  by  James  Huneker,  selected  with  an  Intro,  by  H.  L.  Mencken  (Charles 
Scribner's  Sons,  1930),  p.  xxii. 


860  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

periods  was  associated  with  Blast,  the  organ  of  the  Vorticists,  and  with  the 
Little  Review.  Before  he  shook  the  dust  of  London  from  his  feet  he  had 
given  evidence  of  the  pedantry,  eccentricity,  and  dispersion  of  energy 
which  were  the  eventual  causes  of  his  frustration  in  letters. 

After  four  years,  from  1920  to  1924,  in  Paris,  Pound  moved  on  to 
Rapallo  on  the  Italian  Riviera,  where  he  developed  a  special  philosophy 
based  on  Confucian  ethics  and  dreamed  of  a  Utopia  in  which  the  state 
should  liberally  subsidize  projects  for  human  improvement  and  the 
advancement  of  the  arts.  This  condition  of  affairs  he  thought  was  nearer 
to  achievement  under  Mussolini  than  under  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt,  and 
unfortunately  he  continued  to  express  opinions  to  this  effect  after  the 
United  States  had  declared  war  on  Italy.  Hence  at  the  close  of  hostilities 
he  found  himself  confronted  by  a  charge  of  treason.  One  hysterical 
publisher  prejudged  the  case  by  ordering  Pound's  poems  removed  from  a 
popular  anthology,  thereby  making  the  book  the  poorer,  but  the  poet's 
trial  ended  with  a  sensible  verdict  of  insanity.  Denied  the  consolations  of 
martyrdom,  Pound  was  forced  to  fall  back  on  the  more  dubious  hope  of 
attaining  immortality  by  the  completion  of  his  Cantos,  which  were  de- 
signed in  number  at  least  to  equal  the  cantos  of  Dante's  Commedia. 

Pound's  first  volume,  A  Lume  Spento  (1908),  published  in  Italy,  was 
succeeded  by  half  a  dozen  more  during  his  London  period,  and  from  these 
a  selection  has  been  reprinted  under  the  title  Yersonae  (1926).  His  poetry 
from  the  beginning  has  been  tinctured  with  preciosity  and  exoticism,  but 
its  remorseless  exclusion  of  the  verbose,  the  sentimental,  and  the  hack- 
neyed, together  with  the  variety  and  subtlety  of  its  modulations,  has  won 
it  the  esteem  of  cognoscenti.  He  has  always  delighted  in  costume-pieces, 
of  which  an  often  quoted  example  is  the  pseudo-medieval  "Ballad  of  the 
Goodly  Fere."  His  craving  for  something  new  and  strange  has  led  him  to 
ransack  the  works  of  troubadours  and  early  Italian  singers  and  to  para- 
phrase in  English  such  writers  as  Arnaut  Daniel  and  Guido  Cavalcanti. 
An  acquaintance  with  the  notes  of  the  Oriental  scholar  Ernest  Fenollosa 
was  productive  of  Cathay  (191 5)  and  later  translations  from  both  Chinese 
and  Japanese  sources.  Pound  was  never  so  happy  as  when  echoing  a  half- 
forgotten  music,  whether  of  a  lyric  by  Edmund  Waller  or  an  Alexandrian 
Greek  epigram  or  a  medieval  Latin  sequence.  The  trick  of  erudite  allusion 
that  has  been  so  often  employed  by  recent  poets  to  support  an  effect  of 
overweening  obscurity  derives  notoriously  from  Pound.  In  fact  it  may  be 
claimed  that  modernist  poetry  was  born  somewhere  between  Pound's 
"Portrait  d'une  Femme"  (19 12),  which  still  makes  use  of  a  fundamental 
image,  and  T.  S.  Eliot's  "Portrait  of  a  Lady"  (1915),  which  takes  to  heart 
the  lessons  in  dramatic  presentation  that  might  have  been  absorbed,  along 
with  the  title  of  the  poem,  from  Henry  James. 

In  a  new  volume  called  Quia  Pauper  Amavi  ( 1919)  Pound  issued  the 
first  three  cantos  of  a  projected  poetic-philosophic  masterpiece  at  which 


IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS  86 1 

he  has  been  at  work  ever  since.  By  1948  he  had  completed  the  eighty- 
fourth  of  his  Cantos,  including  ten  written  during  his  imprisonment  at 
Pisa.3  The  successive  installments  of  this  modernist  omnibus  have  not 
managed  to  enlarge  the  circle  of  Pound's  readers,  but  they  have  not  been 
without  effect  on  sensitive  contemporaries  such  as  Eliot,  Hart  Crane,  and 
Archibald  MacLeish.  The  general  theme  of  the  poem,  which  is  the  decay 
of  civilization,  and  its  disjunctive  method  were  both  assimilated  to  good 
purpose  in  Eliot's  The  Waste  Land  (1922)  and  both  appear  to  have 
exercised  a  pervasive  but  more  indefinite  influence  on  Crane's  The  Bridge 
(1930).  The  loose  conversational  rhythms  of  the  Cantos,  combined  oddly 
with  Dantesque  terza  rima  would  seem  to  have  produced  the  verse  form 
used  by  MacLeish  in  Conquistador  (1932).  Pound's  scheme  for  the  poem 
consists  apparently  of  superimposing  motifs  from  the  present  era  on  a 
double  background  derived  from  the  world  of  the  Renaissance  and  the 
world  of  ancient  Greece  and  Rome.  This  triple  interfolding  of  history 
permits  the  poet  to  act  as  a  kind  of  Plutarch,  not  of  parallel  biographies, 
but  of  recurrent  events,  ideas,  and  symbols.  The  startling  association  of 
materials  drawn  from  such  a  vast  range  of  time  and  space  and  jumbled 
together  with  imperfect  notice  of  change  from  one  background  to  another 
gives  rise  to  a  work  superficially  difficult  to  follow,  if  not  at  bottom  con- 
fused. But  it  is  not  unlikely  that  the  Cantos  will  share  the  fate  of  other 
ruinous  monuments  in  becoming  a  quarry  of  suggestions  for  adventurous 
young  poets  for  years  to  come. 

Pound's  esthetic  experiments  have  been  defended  and  explained  from 
time  to  time  in  his  critical  prose.  One  of  the  best  statements  of  his  original 
intentions  occurs  in  the  introduction  to  The  Spirit  of  Romance  (19 10). 
He  has  written  on  Japanese  plays,  on  the  sculptor  Gaudier-Brzeska  and 
the  musician  George  Antheil,  both  of  whom  were  his  "discoveries,"  and 
on  literary  history,  in  which  he  would  concentrate  attention  almost  ex- 
clusively on  writers  who  broke  away  from  current  conventions  and 
created  new  modes  of  expression.  Finally  in  Culture  (1938)  Pound  has 
composed  an  "intellectual  autobiography."  A  definitive  appraisal  of  his 
career  must  somehow  strike  a  balance  between  brilliant  original  gifts  and 
opportunities  squandered. 

#         #         # 

Out  of  a  group  of  young  English  poets  who  occasionally  met  for 
literary  shoptalk  in  a  Soho  restaurant,  Pound's  fertile  imagination  con- 
structed a  literary  movement  after  the  Parisian  pattern.  A  Cambridge  don 
named  T.  E.  Hulme,  who  detested  Tennysonian  smoothness  and  admired 
compact  and  severely  functional  writing,  had  stimulated  some  discussion 
of  poetry  based  on  images  alone  and  had  produced  five  poems  without 

3  It  was  specifically  for  these  "Pisan  Cantos"  that  Pound  in  1948  was  awarded  the 
Boellenger  Prize  by  a  committee  of  experts  who  seem  to  have  lacked  a  competent 
public  relations  adviser. 


862  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

meter  or  rhyme  to  illustrate  his  ideas.  Pound  printed  the  five  pieces  at  the 
end  of  Ripostes  (19 12)  as  "the  complete  poetical  works  of  T.  E.  Hulme" 
and  in  his  most  pontifical  manner  added,  "As  for  the  future,  Les  Imagistes 
.  . .  have  that  in  their  keeping."  During  the  following  year  several  articles 
about  the  Imagistes  and  their  poetic  creed,  together  with  liberal  samples 
of  the  work  of  Pound  and  his  friends,  appeared  in  Harriet  Monroe's 
Poetry.  Pound's  flair  for  publicity  was  proving  effective.  A  few  seeds 
casually  dropped  in  London  were  yielding  a  bumper  crop  in  Chicago's 
fertile  fields. 

While  Imagism  tended  to  cross  the  Atlantic,  a  second  poetic  cult 
appeared  in  England  under  the  name  of  Vorticism.  This  differed  from  the 
former  movement  in  the  substitution  of  the  word  vortex  for  image.  Pound, 
it  seemed,  was  laying  not  one  keel  but  two,  and  what  he  intended  to 
launch  was  a  kind  of  literary  catamaran  with  himself  as  sole  pilot  of  the 
double  craft.  But  at  this  point  he  became  aware  that  a  stronger  hand  than 
his  was  clutching  the  kingpin. 

In  the  summer  of  191 3  an  author  in  search  of  a  career  arrived  in  London 
in  the  person  of  Amy  Lowell  (1 874-1925)  of  Brookline,  Massachusetts, 
the  sister  of  a  Harvard  president  and  of  a  noted  astronomer,  and  a  member 
of  a  New  England  family  equally  distinguished  for  its  success  in  accumu- 
lating worldly  possessions  and  its  altruism  in  disposing  of  them.  Miss 
Lowell  had  aspired  to  a  career  on  the  stage,  but  was  balked  by  her  physical 
unwieldiness.  She  then  elected  to  make  poetry  her  vocation,  though  the 
road  lay  uphill  all  the  way.  As  she  said  herself,  one  whom  the  Lord 
intended  as  a  businessman  could  only  with  extreme  difficulty  be  re- 
fashioned as  a  poet.  Miss  Lowell,  however,  had  the  will  to  surmount  all 
obstacles.  After  ten  years'  work  she  ventured  into  print  with  a  slender 
volume  called  A  Dome  of  Many -Colored  Glass  (191 2),  which  met  a  tepid 
reception.  It  was  characteristic  of  Miss  Lowell's  large  way  of  doing  things 
that  when  the  public  response  to  her  work  failed  to  satisfy  her  expecta- 
tions she  should  proceed  to  organize  and  promote  a  general  revival  of 
interest  in  poetry.  From  Ezra  Pound  she  learned  rapidly  to  discard  the 
Keats-Tennyson  manner  of  her  early  work  and  to  write  in  the  fresh  ca- 
dences of  free  verse.  A  single  poem  by  her  appeared  in  the  first  Imagist 
anthology,  which  Pound  controlled.  The  second  manifesto,  entitled  Some 
Imagist  Poets,  was  published  in  Boston  under  Miss  Lowell's  sponsorship. 
The  lists  of  contributors  to  the  two  volumes  were  practically  identical, 
except  for  the  significant  omission  of  Pound  from  the  second.  The  pilot 
had  been  dropped. 

For  the  remaining  ten  years  of  her  life  Miss  Lowell  promoted  poetry 
wholeheartedly  by  means  of  books  and  platform  appearances.  She  was 
magnanimous  in  her  assistance  to  other  poets.  Together  with  Harriet 
Monroe  she  did  much  to  create  the  atmosphere  of  excited  interest  that 
fostered  the  poetic  renaissance  of  191 2-18.  Her  own  successive  volumes  of 


IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS  863 

poems,  Sword  Blades  and  Poppy  Seed  ( 1914),  Men,  Women,  and  Ghosts 
(19 1 6),  Can  Grande's  Castle  (191 8),  Pictures  of  the  Floating  World 
(19 19),  Legends  (1921),  W loafs  O' Clock  (1925),  and  two  posthumously 
published  collections,  show  her  moving  restlessly  from  regular  verse  to 
free  verse  to  polyphonic  prose  and  back  again  to  conventional  verse. 
When  she  sent  a  group  of  her  Japanese  lacquer-print  poems  to  D.  H. 
Lawrence,  he  replied  with  the  luminous  admonition,  "Do  write  from  your 
real  self,  Amy,  don't  make  up  things  from  the  outside,  it  is  so  saddening."  4 
But  she  could  not  heed  him.  The  best  she  could  do  was  valiantly  to  enact 
the  role  of  poet  as  she  had  conceived  it  in  her  Victorian  girlhood.  To  make 
herself  a  poet  of  her  time  was  beyond  her  powers.  Probably  her  widely 
quoted  "Patterns,"  an  expression  of  the  conflict  between  desire  and  con- 
vention in  an  eighteenth-century  setting,  and  the  decorative,  fervently 
regional  "Lilacs"  fairly  represent  her  achievement.  Miss  Lowell's  criticism, 
including  A  Critical  Fable  (1922)  which  mirrors  the  earlier  Lowell's  A 
Fable  for  Critics,  is  vigorous  but  seldom  penetrating.  Her  huge  biography 
of  Keats  proved  that  her  capacity  to  select  was  more  quickly  exhausted 
than  her  power  to  love. 

Several  poets  like  Carl  Sandburg  who  were  popularly  associated  with 
the  Imagist  group  at  the  time  when  it  was  most  in  the  news  were  in  fact 
following  independent  lines  of  their  own  which  happened  to  merge  with 
the  Imagist  line,  though  their  divergence  has  since  become  marked.  One  of 
them  was  John  Gould  Fletcher  (1886- 1950),  who  began  his  poetic  career 
under  the  shadow  of  Ezra  Pound  and  remained  resident  abroad  most  of 
the  time  from  1908  to  1933.  He  first  attracted  attention  by  color  sym- 
phonies in  free  verse,  which  seemed  to  place  him  as  a  convinced  Imagist. 
He  joined  Amy  Lowell  in  her  defection  from  Pound,  and  was  rewarded 
by  being  hailed  as  a  voice  of  the  future  in  her  Tendencies  in  Modern 
American  Poetry  (19 17).  His  work  of  this  period  is  well  represented  in 
Irradiations  (19 15)  and  Goblins  and  Pagodas  (19 16).  Since  Fletcher's 
natural  dignity  and  independence  would  not  permit  him  to  accept  an  easy 
notoriety,  he  was  little  acclaimed  for  some  twenty  years.  When  he  was 
recalled  to  notice  by  the  award  of  a  Pulitzer  Prize  for  his  Selected  Poems 
(1938),  it  was  discovered  that  he  had  quietly  transformed  himself  into  a 
mystic  regionalist  who  tended  to  write  in  blank  verse  and  other  regular 
forms.  Poems  in  his  later  manner  first  appeared  in  Breakers  and  Granite 
(192 1 ),  and  such  titles  as  The  Black  Rock  (1928),  XXIV  Elegies  (1935), 
The  Epic  of  Arkansas  (1936),  and  South  Star  (1941)  exhibit  Fletcher's 
steady  progress  away  from  abstract  composition  and  toward  homely 
native  themes.  Before  he  ended  his  life  he  had  become  one  of  the  most 
successful  recorders  of  regional  traditions.  In  Life  is  My  Song  (1937),  an 
autobiographical  narrative,  Fletcher  has  given  a  vivid  and  sensible  account 


4  Horace  Gregory  and  Marya  Zaturenska,  A  History  of  American  Poetry, 
(1946),  p.  189. 


1900-1940 


864  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  those  American  expatriates  in  London  and  Paris  who  have  sometimes 
been  overdramatized  as  the  "Lost  Generation." 

The  fastidious  and  classical  temperament  of  Hilda  Doolittle  (1886- 
),  a  Pennsylvanian  bv  birth,  was  powerfully  stimulated  by  association 
with  such  older  writers  as  Pound,  William  Carlos  Williams,  and  Marianne 
Moore,  whom  she  met  while  still  an  undergraduate  at  Bryn  Mawr.  In 
London,  where  she  has  lived  since  191 1,  she  saw  much  of  Pound  in  the 
days  of  his  glory  and  of  his  young  English  disciple,  Richard  Aldington, 
whom  she  later  married.  With  them  she  provided  show-pieces  of  Imagist 
work  for  publication  in  Poetry,  and  at  this  time  she  signed  herself  "H.D., 
Imagiste."  The  delicate  and  graceful  fancy  of  "Oread"  attracted  attention 
when  a  group  of  her  poems  was  included  in  Some  Imagist  Poets.  Her  first 
independent  book,  Sea  Garden  (19 16),  confirmed  the  impression  of  orig- 
inality made  by  the  periodical  publication  of  her  work.  In  later  volumes 
she  has  built  up  a  bright  inward  world  out  of  echoes  and  imaginings 
drawn  from  the  Hellenic  past.  Besides  poems  that  are  as  sharply  cut  as 
intaglios,  she  has  written  a  drama,  Hippolitus  Temporizes  (1927),  in  clas- 
sical form  and  has  translated  the  Ion  of  Euripides.  Her  poems  written 
during  the  Second  World  War,  The  Walls  Do  Not  Fall  (1944)  and 
Tribute  to  the  Angels  (1945),  present  aspects  of  religious  experience,  but 
still  in  the  chiseled  phrasing  that  makes  H.D.  seem  like  a  modern  rein- 
carnation of  the  genius  of  Walter  Savage  Landor. 

The  Imagist  movement  in  final  analysis  was  mainly  valuable  for  the 
thorough  job  of  literary  housecleaning  that  it  accomplished.  It  swept  out 
of  existence  a  century's  accumulation  of  formalisms  and  superstitions.  It 
renewed  emphasis  on  essentials  and  reopened  the  almost  forgotten  ques- 
tion of  the  fundamental  nature  of  poetry.  A  certain  amount  of  interesting 
and  acceptable  free  verse  was  produced  by  the  Imagists.  Yet  if  one  were 
compiling  an  anthology  of  American  poems  of  the  finest  quality,  the 
section  devoted  to  their  work  would  be  one  of  the  slimmest. 


While  the  Imagists  were  clearing  the  way  for  their  successors,  how- 
ever, a  first-rate  experimental  mind  was  formulating  new  techniques  in 
both  prose  and  verse.  If,  as  Ezra  Pound  was  fond  of  insisting,  absolute 
originality  were  the  only  criterion  in  judging  works  of  art,  then  the  great- 
est American  writer  who  has  appeared  in  the  twentieth  century  would  be 
Gertrude  Stein  (1874-1946).  Like  James  Joyce  abroad,  Miss  Stein  early 
made  herself  a  radical  innovator  in  the  art  of  letters.  The  impact  of  her 
example  has  been  felt  in  the  development  of  other  writers,  notably  Sher- 
wood Anderson  and  Ernest  Hemingway. 

Her  preparation  for  a  literary  career  was  significantly  unorthodox. 
Born  in  Pennsylvania  of  German-Jewish  stock,  she  passed  her  girlhood  in 
California,  where  she  attended  school  but  in  a  truer  sense  educated  herself 


IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS  865 

bv  voracious  reading.  At  RadclifTe  she  studied  psychology  under  William 
James,  and  after  graduation  continued  her  investigations  at  Johns  Hopkins, 
where  she  specialized  in  the  anatomy  of  the  brain.  About  1902  she  turned 
from  psychology  to  creative  writing.  After  reading  English  literature  in 
London,  she  settled  in  Paris,  where  she  lived  quietly  for  the  rest  of  her 
life,  except  for  the  interruptions  caused  by  two  world  wars.  As  a  lover  of 
painting  she  surrounded  herself  with  the  work  of  modern  artists,  par- 
ticularly of  Picasso  and  Aiatisse,  who  became  her  close  friends.  Un- 
doubtedly her  literary  theories  were  colored,  though  not  originated,  by 
the  drastic  experimentation  which  was  then  taking  place  in  the  studios  of 
Paris.  Much  of  her  own  early  writing  in  experimental  forms  remained 
unpublished  until  she  had  become  known  through  books  written  in 
reasonably  conventional  ways. 

Probably  the  best  approach  to  the  writings  of  Gertrude  Stein  is  through 
her  own  telling  of  the  story  of  her  activities  dramatically  projected  as  if 
written  by  her  companion  and  secretary,  and  hence  entitled  The  Auto- 
biography of  Alice  B.  Toklas  (1933).  This  was  the  book  which  brought 
Miss  Stein  to  the  attention  of  a  wide  popular  audience.  It  consists  mainly 
of  a  vivacious  chronicle  of  the  writers,  painters,  sculptors,  composers,  and 
other  interesting  people  who  frequented  Miss  Stein's  salon  in  Paris.  By 
way  of  interlude  a  chapter  pictures  the  upheavals  caused  by  the  First 
World  War  and  records  some  of  Miss  Stein's  impressions  as  a  volunteer 
ambulance  driver.  But  most  of  all  the  book  conveys  an  intimate  sense  of 
her  monumental  personality,  of  her  unlimited  and  unprejudiced  curiosity 
about  human  nature,  of  her  good-humored  acceptance  of  the  foibles  and 
crotchets  of  other  people,  and  of  her  fundamental  instinct  of  equality. 
She  was  the  best  kind  of  democrat,  a  democrat  who  knew  what  she 
wanted  and  was  able  to  get  things  done.  Ever  since  her  death  her  ideas 
have  continued  to  exert  an  influence. 

Several  other  works  dating  from  various  periods  in  Miss  Stein's  life  are 
not  too  abstract  to  be  read  without  special  preparation.  Her  first  published 
(not  her  first  written)  book,  Three  Lives  (1909),  contains  three  biograph- 
ical sketches  of  women  living  on  the  utterly  unsophisticated  level  of 
lower-class  existence.  Of  these  "Melanctha"  has  become  famous— a  mas- 
terly study  of  the  processes  of  an  undeveloped  mind  as  revealed  in  the 
natural  speech-rhythms  of  a  Negro  girl.  Its  accuracy  is  so  photograph- 
ically exact  that  it  seems  better  adapted  to  clinical  than  to  artistic  purposes. 
It  remains,  nevertheless,  a  landmark  pointing  the  way  that  much  psycholog- 
ical fiction  was  to  follow.  Lectures  in  America  (1935)  and  Everybody's 
Autobiography  (1937)  are  souvenirs  of  Miss  Stein's  successful  return  to 
the  United  States  in  1934  as  a  popular  author  and  speaker.  Finally  in  Wars 
1  Have  Seen  (1945)  she  set  down  with  unsurpassable  immediacy  her  im- 
pressions of  French  village  life  during  the  German  occupation  and  of  the 
resurgence  of  energy  and  joy  that  accompanied  the  arrival  of  the  Amer- 


866  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

ican  army  of  liberation.  This  book  will  certainly  remain  one  of  the  great 
documents  inspired  by  the  Second  World  War. 

Gertrude  Stein's  experimental  writing  may  be  conyeniently  divided  into 
prose  and  verse,  since  she  professed  a  different  theory  of  language  for  each 
of  the  two  main  literary  forms.  The  philosophic  basis  of  her  prose  may  be 
found  in  the  esthetic  doctrines  of  William  James  in  combination  with 
Bergson's  ideas  of  time.  Since  the  object  of  prose  is  chiefly  to  convey  the 
immediate  sense  of  motion  the  naming  of  things  can  only  be  a  clog  and  a 
hindrance;  hence  nouns  are  to  be  eschewed  as  far  as  possible  and  effects 
gained  by  sequences  of  repeated  verbal  phrases  comparable  to  the  succes- 
sive "frames"  of  a  motion  picture.  Poetry,  on  the  other  hand,  treats  of 
timeless  values,  or  as  A4iss  Stein  put  it,  of  "everything  that  was  not  move- 
ment in  space."  Her  poems,  consequently,  make  primary  use  of  nouns. 
A  characteristic  illustration  is  this:  "When  I  said,  A  rose  is  a  rose  is  a  rose, 
and  then  later  made  that  into  a  ring,  I  made  poetry  and  what  did  I  do  I 
caressed  completely  caressed  and  addressed  a  noun."  To  many  readers, 
however,  Miss  Stein's  poems  as  represented  in  Geography  and  Plays 
(1922)  and  Useful  Knowledge  (1928)  will  seem  most  effective  not  for 
their  caressing  notes  but  for  their  lively  satirical  undertones. 

Hardy  explorers  in  the  jungles  of  modernism  may  follow  Miss  Stein 
into  the  recesses  of  Tender  Buttons  (1914),  her  abstract  studies  of  ob- 
jects, food,  and  rooms;  of  The  Making  of  Americans  (1925),  the  alleged 
history  of  a  family's  progress  written  in  1906-08;  or  of  her  two  "novels," 
Lucy  Church  Amiably  (1930)  and  Ida  (1941),  the  second  said  to  be  in- 
spired by  the  career  of  the  Duchess  of  Windsor.  The  less  adventurous 
reader  will  probably  be  content  to  experience  some  amusing  short  speci- 
mens of  her  technique  such  as  the  "Portrait  of  Mabel  Dodge  at  the  Villa 
Curonia"  and  "Miss  Furr  and  Miss  Skeene."  Anyone  who  has  seen  the 
opera  Four  Saints  in  Three  Acts  (1929)  with  Virgil  Thomson's  music  as 
performed  by  the  original  Negro  cast  will  be  unwilling  to  deny  the 
esthetic  possibilities  of  words  used  without  relation  to  logic  as  a  plastic 
medium  of  expression.  As  with  non-Euclidean  geometry,  the  value  of  the 
applications  may  outweigh  the  inherent  absurdity  of  the  basic  assump- 
tions. We  cannot  yet  say  with  assurance  that  the  experimental  writing  of 
Gertrude  Stein  has  led  to  nothing.  Even  when  we  weary  of  her  endless 
repetitions  we  may  well  remind  ourselves  in  words  quoted  from  Tender 
Buttons  that  "The  teasing  is  tender  and  trying  and  thoughtful."  Gertrude 
Stein  is  at  least  entitled  to  make  the  claim,  "Also  there  is  why  is  it  that  in 
this  epoch  the  only  real  literary  thinking  has  been  done  by  a  woman." 


Miss  Stein's  expcrimentalism  was  rooted  in  her  own  first-hand  knowl- 
edge of  psychology,  not  in  a  thin  dilution  of  Freud.  But  the  second  and 
third  decades  of  the  century  saw  the  emergence  of  writers  whose  inspira- 


IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS  867 

tion  well  deserved  the  term  "pseudo-psychoanalytic."  William  Blake  once 
remarked  that  "If  others  had  not  been  foolish,  we  should  be  so."  Similarly 
it  may  be  said  that  recent  writers  owe  their  immunity  from  Freudian  in- 
fection to  the  generation  which  caught  the  disease  in  its  most  virulent 
form. 

Among  the  first  poets  to  effect  a  fusion  of  lyricism  and  subjective  psy- 
chology was  Conrad  Aiken  (1889-  ),  born  in  Savannah,  Georgia,  of 
New  England  parents.  Since  graduating  from  Harvard  in  191 2  Aiken  has 
spent  the  better  part  of  his  life  in  England,  where  he  feels  that  he  writes 
best.  He  has  produced  something  over  twenty  volumes  of  verse,  five 
novels,  and  three  collections  of  short  stories,  all  competent  writing  which 
rises  to  the  verge  of  distinction  without  ever  quite  attaining  it. 

Two  successive  stages  are  observable  in  Aiken's  poetry.  In  half  a  dozen 
books  from  Earth  Triumphant  (19 14)  to  The  House  of  Dust  (1920)  he 
experimented  with  tenuous  musical  rhythms  and  with  the  formulation  of 
metaphysical  and  psychological  ideas  against  a  background  of  chaos.  Be- 
ginning with  Punch:  The  Immortal  Liar  (1921)  Aiken  began  a  period  of 
groping  for  symbols  of  frustration  and  arrested  development,  a  search 
which  still  continues  without  coming  measurably  nearer  to  its  goal. 
Though  his  Selected  Poems  (1929)  were  awarded  a  Pulitzer  Prize,  Aiken's 
lyrical  gift  seems  to  have  fallen  unripe.  His  prose,  particularly  in  his  short 
stories,  excels  in  the  creation  of  uncanny  mental  atmospheres.  He  has 
written  a  collection  of  trenchant  critical  comments  on  contemporary 
poets  in  Skepticisms  (19 19)  and  a  notable  essay  on  Emily  Dickinson 
which  forms  the  preface  to  an  admirable  selection  from  her  earliest  pub- 
lished poems. 

A  second  introspective  and  essentially  facile  poet  who  began  his  career 
during  the  aftermath  of  the  First  World  War  with  broodings  on  a  chaotic 
world  was  Archibald  MacLeish  (1892-  ),  a  graduate  of  Yale  and  the 
Harvard  Law  School.  In  deft  emulation  of  Ezra  Pound  and  T.  S.  Eliot 
as  the  latter  then  appeared,  MacLeish  commenced  by  portraying  the 
hopeless  plight  of  the  sensitive  intellectual  as  institutions  disintegrate 
around  him  in  Tonxer  of  Ivory  (19 17),  The  Pot  of  Earth  (1925),  and 
The  Hamlet  of  A.  MacLeish  (1928).  On  returning  to  the  United  States 
during  the  years  of  the  Depression  MacLeish  discovered  a  fresh  aware- 
ness of  cultural  values  which  found  voice  in  New  Found  Land  (1930) 
and  Frescoes  for  Mr.  Rockefeller's  City  (1933).  Meanwhile  he  had  won 
a  Pulitzer  Prize  for  Conquistador  (1932),  a  dreamy  evocation  of  the  con- 
quest of  Mexico  based  on  the  narrative  of  Bernal  Diaz.  MacLeish's  Poems, 
1924-1933  marks  the  end  of  a  long  apprentice  period  in  the  course  of 
which  he  assimilated  and  discarded  many  contemporary  styles.  Since  1935 
he  has  been  something  of  a  literary  chameleon,  and  his  later  writings  may 
best  be  discussed  in  connection  with  the  poets  of  the  Second  World  War 
period. 


Chapter  45 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY 


One  of  the  strangest  paradoxes  in  literary  history  lies  in  the  contrast  be- 
tween the  rise  of  the  United  States  to  a  position  of  world  leadership  dur- 
ing the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century  and  the  defeatist  tone  adopted 
by  many  contemporary  writers.  Had  this  nation  lost  either  of  the  World 
Wars  and  fallen  under  the  domination  of  German  imperialists  or  Nazi 
terrorists,  then  indeed  there  would  have  been  ample  justification  for 
despair.  But  why  the  increased  power  and  prosperity  of  the  country 
should  be  greeted  by  cries  of  disillusionment  and  dismay  from  a  con- 
siderable section  of  its  men  of  letters  is  a  question  not  readily  answered. 
Americans,  it  may  be,  had  so  long  been  in  the  habit  of  discountenancing 
authority  that  they  could  not  at  once  bring  themselves  to  assume  it.  Only 
grudgingly  could  they  face  the  responsibilities  of  a  splendid  destiny. 
A  Greek  of  the  age  of  Pericles  or  an  Elizabethan  Englishman  would  not 
have  known  what  to  make  of  such  reluctance.  It  would  seem  that  the  men 
of  our  era  were  afflicted  either  with  weak  nerves  or  with  a  curious  lack 
of  imagination. 

There  were,  of  course,  reasons  for  disquiet  beneath  the  surface.  Men 
do  not  pass  through  the  calamity  of  war  unscathed,  nor  was  the  tempo- 
rary peace  attained  in  19 19  in  any  respect  reassuring.  The  flouting  of  law, 
which  had  previously  been  furtive,  became  general  during  the  Prohibition 
era.  Public  morality  also  suffered  a  decline.  The  spectacle  of  business  en- 
terprise divorced  from  social  responsibility  and  of  gangster  organizations 
operating  with  the  smooth  efficiency  of  big  business  was  not  a  pretty  one. 
The  collapse  of  confidence  in  1929  and  the  great  depression  that  followed 
led  on  all  sides  to  a  feeling  of  economic  insecurity.  A4eanwhile  the  oppor- 
tunities that  America  had  once  offered  for  individual  independence  and 
self-respect  were  rapidly  narrowed.  Mechanization  with  its  disregard  of 
human  values  and  an  increasing  regimentation  became  the  order  of  the 
day.  In  a  single  generation  the  country  was  transformed  into  a  vast  assem- 

868 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  869 

bly  line.  The  process  of  adjustment  involved  much  social  injustice  and  no 
little  suffering,  since  pain  is  a  condition  of  growth.  It  also  threw  sensitive 
observers  into  spasms  of  confusion,  doubt,  and  disgust.  Was  the  change 
from  an  agrarian  to  an  industrial  society  worth  what  it  cost?  Would  it 
increase  the  welfare  of  the  people  in  general  or  only  provide  a  more  hide- 
ous form  of  exploitation  of  the  many  by  the  few?  Such  questions  as  these 
occupied  the  attention  of  men  of  letters  to  the  exclusion  of  pride  in  our 
technological  triumphs  or  satisfaction  in  the  high  standards  of  living  en- 
joyed by  a  large  proportion  of  our  people.1  Sensational  stories  could  be 
written  about  the  struggle  of  farmers  against  the  railroads,  the  migration 
of  Okies,  or  the  woes  of  sharecroppers,  while  the  magnificent  achieve- 
ments of  JTVAJejt  not  a  trace  on  our  national  literature. 

A  further  and  possibly  decisive  factor  was  the  influence  of  literary 
fashions  spreading  from  London,  Paris,  and  Vienna.  Europe  in  the  throes 
of  a  general  breakdown  was  not  producing  a  literature  inspired  by  hope- 
fulness. Instead  the  tone  of  all  the  arts  was  characterized  by  cynicism, 
violence,  and  a  desire  to  shock.  The  imitative  faculty  in  rank  and  file 
artists  is  often  stronger  than  their  powers  of  observing  and  drawing  con- 
clusions for  themselves.  They  are  not  exempt  from  the  human  weakness 
described  by  Holbrook  Jackson:  "The  majority  of  people  see  life  through 
the  mind  rather  than  through  the  eyes.  They  approach  things  and  ideas 
through  a  haze  of  what  has  been  learnt  or  thought  about  them  rather 
than  by  direct  observation.  Myopia  and  fixity  of  idea,  not  perception,  ap- 
pear to  govern  the  civilised  attitude  toward  life."  2  Abundant  illustra- 
tions to  confirm  the  accuracy  of  this  generalization  will  occur  to  any 
student  of  literary  history. 


The  bitterness  which  had  shown  itself  sporadically  in  the  writings  of 
Ambrose  Bierce,  the  novels  of  E.  W.  Howe  and  Joseph  Kirkland,  and 
the  early  stories  of  Hamlin  Garland,  became  a  dominant  literary  tone 
when  the  First  World  War  raised  forebodings  of  a  general  collapse  of 
security.  The  change  in  attitude  was  dramatically  marked  in  the  United 
States  by  the  appearance  of  The  Spoon  River  Anthology  (19 15).  This 
book  was  the  work  of  Edgar  Lee  Masters  (1869- 1950),  a  Chicago  lawyer 
who  had  long  made  literature  his  avocation  without  significant  results. 
His  tendency  to  diffuseness,  however,  was  checked  by  his  taking  the 
epigrams  of  the  Greek  Anthology  as  a  model  for  a  series  of  thumbnail 
biographies  in  free  verse.  From  the  cemetery  of  Spoon  River,  an  imag- 
inary small  town  in  Illinois,  the  dead  speak,  each  giving  his  view  of  what 

1  See  Bernard  DeVoto,  The  Literary  Fallacy  (1944)  and  J.  Donald  Adams,  The 
Shape  of  Books  to  Come  (1944)  for  detailed  analyses  of  the  gap  between  American 
achievement  and  literary  response. 

2  Holbrook  Jackson,  The  Reading  of  Books  (1947),  p.  40. 


/ 


870  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

life  amounted  to  in  his  experience  of  it.  For  Lucinda  Matlock,  a  pioneer 
woman,  ninety-six  years  of  rich  fulfillment  have  not  exhausted  her  zest 
for  living.  Anne  Rutledge,  the  supposed  early  sweetheart  of  Abraham 
Lincoln,  has  found  a  vicarious  satisfaction  in  being  the  inspiration  of  his 
deep-hearted  humanity  and  charity  for  all.  A  very  few  others  like  "Fiddler 
Jones"  have  lived  without  a  single  regret. 

But  for  most  of  the  people  represented— some  two  hundred  and  fifty  in 
all— life  has  been  a  heavy  burden,  a  bewilderment,  a  frustration  of  hopes, 
a  meaningless  torture.  Some,  like  "Petit,  the  Poet,"  have  discovered  their 
own  littleness.  Many  have  encountered  domestic  tragedy.  Others  have 
been  snuffed  out  by  blind  chance.  The  general  effect  is  to  emphasize  those 
aspects  of  life  which  come  most  insistently  to  the  attention  of  a  small-town 
lawyer,  the  meanness,  injustices,  petty  grudges,  sterile  endurances,  warped 
desires,  jealousies,  and  scandals  of  the  community.  That  instances  of 
neighborly  kindness,  forbearance,  public  spirit,  self-sacrifice,  courage,  and 
sturdy  self-fulfillment  likewise  occur  may  be  less  evident  to  a  superficial 
observer.  Masters,  at  any  rate,  decisively  reversed  the  pretty  picture  of 
American  village  life  that  had  been  offered  by  possibly  too  complacent 
members  of  the  local-color  school,  as  in  Margaret  Deland's  Old  Chester 
Tales  (1898)  and  Dr.  Lavendar's  People  (1903).  It  makes  a  difference 
whether  human  relations  are  viewed  from  the  standpoint  of  the  rector's 
tea-table  or  from  the  rear  of  the  livery  stable.  By  taking  the  latter  view 
Masters  administered  a  rude  jolt  to  genteel  complacency.  What  Carl  Van 
Doren  was  soon  to  label  "the  revolt  from  the  village"  began  in  Spoon  River. 

Masters  himself  tried  to  follow  up  his  success  with  a  second  volume 
of  Spoon  River  biographies,  but  the  effect  could  not  be  repeated.  His 
later  books  of  poems  such  as  Domesday  Book  (1920)  and  The  Fate  of 
the  Jury  ( 1929)  reveal  a  laborious  but  uninspired  talent.  Few  of  his  novels 
and  biographies  have  lasting  value.  He  remains  a  conspicuous  example  of 
an  author  who  owes  his  prominence  to  a  single  lucky  hit,  a  book  of  the 
moment,  rather  than  to  his  own  personal  qualities  or  artistic  distinction. 


Symptomatic  of  the  changed  attitude  toward  American  middle-class 
life  was  the  gradual  shift  of  tone  in  the  novels  of  Zona  Gale  (1874-1938) 
of  Wisconsin.  From  the  sheer  fantasy  of  Romance  Island  (1906)  and  the 
idealized  sentiment  of  The  Loves  of  Pelleas  and  Ettare  (1907),  she  turned 
to  local  color  stories  in  Frie?idship  Village  (1908),  which  exhibits  the 
shortcomings  of  small-town  life  chiefly  as  a  foil  to  its  kindly  neighborli- 
ness.  In  Birth  (1918),  dramatized  in  1924  as  Mr.  Pitt,  she  revealed  a 
sharper  sense  for  the  ironies  implicit  in  a  community's  failure  to  recog- 
nize the  high  qualities  of  magnanimity  and  charity  when  they  are  mani- 
fested by  a  colorless  and  unassuming  little  man.  An  offshoot  of  this  novel 
led  to  a  second  study  of  a  repressed  nature  in  Miss  Lulu  Bett  (1920), 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  871 

which  in  dramatic  form  won  the  Pulitzer  Prize  for  192 1.  The  heroine  of 
this  story  is  a  plain  woman  of  thirty-four,  a  household  drudge  who  re- 
volts against  the  petty  tyranny  of  her  relations  and  insists  on  making  her 
own  terms  with  the  world.  Miss  Gale's  subtleties  of  insight  and  the  mor- 
dant humor  of  her  treatment  of  selfish,  overbearing  people  offer  an  effec- 
tive contrast  to  the  more  clumsy  and  preconceived  satire  of  small-town 
life  in  Sinclair  Lewis's  Main  Street. 

In  her  subsequent  novels  Miss  Gale  continued  to  present  realistic  pic- 
tures of  ordinary  people  in  everyday  surroundings,  not  without  some 
analysis  of  cruelty  and  abnormality  as  forces  to  be  reckoned  with.  Yet 
her  underlying  convictions  stressed  the  resistance  to  disintegrative  ten- 
dencies of  human  nature  in  general  and  of  the  feminine  virtues  in  particu- 
lar. She  could  write  with  confidence:  "The  chief  concern  of  the  Ameri- 
can novel  of  tomorrow  will  be  to  uncover  the  beauty  of  our  essential 
commonplace  living  as  the  novel  of  today  has  triumphantly  uncovered 
its  ugliness."  3  Some  glimmerings  of  the  tomorrow  of  Miss  Gale's  predic- 
tion may  be  discerned  in  Glenway  Westcott's  nostalgic  evocation  of  his 
Wisconsin  background  in  The  Grandmothers  (1927),  and  in  Ruth  Suc- 
kow's  sympathetic  catalogues  of  drabness  in  Iowa  Interiors  (1926)  and 
other  fictional  studies  of  plain  people. 


In  the  early  nineteen-twenties  Winesburg,  Ohio  (19 19)  was  commonly 
grouped  with  "revolt  from  the  village"  fiction,  though  obviously  it  was 
the  work,  not  of  a  satirical  critic,  but  of  a  caresser  of  life.  Its  author, 
Sherwood  Anderson  (1876-1941),  though  keenly  aware  of  how  men  and 
women  were  warped  and  biased  by  psychic  accidents,  wrote  without 
bitterness  but  rather  with  a  warm  and  all-embracing  sympathy.  Like 
George  Borrow,  who  was  in  some  sense  his  master  and  model,  he  accepted 
human  beings  as  he  found  them,  making  no  conventional  distinctions  be- 
tween good  and  evil.  His  imagination  was  ceaselessly  occupied  in  trying 
to  penetrate  into  the  hidden  life  that  throbbed  somewhere  behind  the 
masks  that  people  offered  to  the  world.  Hence  many  of  his  stories  are 
focused  on  almost  intangible  perceptions,  moments  of  intensity  or  under- 
standing, casual  action  that  reveal  the  soul's  leanings,  or  the  rising  to  the 
surface  of  some  monstrous  creation  from  the  subconscious  world.  He 
was  a  connoisseur  of  psychological  grotesques,  not  through  any  prefer- 
ence for  abnormalities,  but  simply  because  abnormalities  lay  in  his  way 
and  he  could  not  avoid  them. 

Many  of  the  themes  of  his  fiction  can  be  discerned  in  his  own  life  story. 
Born  of  highly  diverse  parents,  his  father  a  small-town  loafer  and  barroom 
entertainer,  his  mother  a  girl  of  Italian  extraction  who  possessed  abundant 

3  Quoted  by  Arthur  Hobson  Quinn,  American  Fiction  (1936),  p.  706. 


872  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

energy  of  character,  he  spent  a  boyhood  in  various  Ohio  villages,  pick- 
ing up  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  streets,  livery  stables,  shops,  and 
outlying  farms.  A  common  laborer  in  Chicago,  an  enlisted  man  in  the 
Spanish-American  War,  an  employee  of  an  advertising  agency,  and  a 
manager  of  a  paint  factory:  these  were  successive  steps  in  an  unavailing 
effort  to  adjust  himself  to  conventional  living.  Somewhat  dramatically 
breaking  away  from  the  factory  while  in  the  midst  of  dictating  a  letter, 
he  returned  to  advertising  and  between  1916  and  192 1  established  him- 
self as  a  writer  for  left-wing  and  avant-garde  periodicals.  Though  always 
highly  regarded  in  literary  circles,  he  was  in  and  out  of  favor  with  the 
reading  public.  Some  of  his  latest  and  best  stories  were  obscurely  pub- 
lished or  remained  in  manuscript  until  collected  by  his  friend  Paul  Rosen- 
feld  for  The  Sherwood  Anderson  Reader  (1947). 

Anderson's  first  book,  a  novel  called  Windy  McPherson^s  Son  (1916), 
was  followed  by  six  other  pieces  of  full-length  fiction,  of  which  Dark 
Laughter  (1925)  enjoyed  the  most  conspicuous  popular  success.  The 
writer's  talent,  however,  was  not  well  adapted  to  the  rigorous  discipline 
that  the  construction  of  novels  demands.  Nearly  always  his  longer  nar- 
ratives begin  brilliantly  but  soon  lose  their  sense  of  direction  and  wander 
to  a  close  in  verbosity  and  vagueness.  Probably  the  best  of  them  is  Poor 
White  (1920),  a  story  that  nearly  attains  significance  in  contrasting  the 
creative  mind  of  an  inventor  with  the  merely  predatory  instincts  of  an 
entrepreneur.  But  unluckily  the  theme  of  sex-fulfillment,  to  which  Ander- 
son was  peculiarly  susceptible,  becomes  tangled  up  with  the  main  inter- 
est and  eventually  supersedes  it,  leaving  the  work  hopelessly  confused. 

In  the  shorter  forms  of  prose  fiction  Anderson  succeeded  better  than 
in  the  novel.  Besides  Winesburg,  Ohio,  three  volumes  of  short  stories, 
The  Triumph  of  the  Egg  (1921),  Horses  and  Men  (1923),  and  Death  in 
the  Woods  (1933),  contain  the  pieces  that  seem  likely  to  establish  his 
permanent  reputation.  Among  them  are  tales  in  the  conventional  moods 
of  farce,  comedy,  and  tragedy,  along  with  still  more  that  elude  classifica- 
tion or  preconception.  As  Anderson  put  it: 

The  street  before  the  door  of  the  house  of  my  mind  is  filled  with  tales. 
They  murmur  and   cry  out,  they   are  dying  of  cold   and   hunger.4 

Like  the  ghosts  clamoring  about  Dante  in  the  other  world,  stories  wait- 
ing to  be  told  pressed  upon  Anderson  with  the  simple  urgency  of  the 
desire  for  recognition.  Some  of  the  tales  that  materialized  under  his 
"crafty  fingers"  are  centered  in  psychological  crises,  like  the  often  quoted 
"I  Want  to  Know  Why"  and  "I'm  a  Fool."  Others  conspicuously  avoid 
the  anecdotal  pattern  of  much  American  brief  fiction.  They  transcend 

4  Quoted  by  Robert  M.  Lovett,  "The  Promise  of  Sherwood  Anderson,"  Dial,  Vol. 
72  (Jan.  1922),  p.  83. 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  873 

the  trick  of  surprise  for  the  finer  shock  of  revelation.  Inevitably  they 
added  depth  to  the  contemporary  short  story. 

In  his  two  autobiographical  narratives,  A  Story  Teller's  Story  (1924) 
and  Tar;  A  Midwest  Childhood  (1926),  the  virtues  and  failings  of  Ander- 
son's fiction  are  repeated.  Both  contain  long  repetitious  passages  where 
the  author  seems  to  be  struggling  to  surmount  some  obscure  psychic 
blockade  in  his  own  nature,  yet  both  are  ultimately  successful  in  combining 
his  "journey  through  his  own  imaginative  world"  with  his  wanderings 
"through  the  world  of  facts."  Anderson,  like  Thoreau,  refused  to  bow 
down  before  the  god  of  progress.  He  could  not  see  any  virtue  in  the 
roaring  bustle  of  American  commerce,  in  its  shallow  intellectuality  and 
blind  disregard  of  human  values.  He  was  under  no  illusions. 

As  a  people  we  have  given  ourselves  to  industrialism,  and  industrialism  is  not 
lovely.  If  any  man  can  find  beauty  in  an  American  factory  town  I  wish  he 
would  show  me  the  way.  For  myself,  I  cannot  find  it.  To  me,  and  I  am  living 
in  industrial  life,  the  whole  thing  is  as  ugly  as  modern  war.5 

Anderson  was  in  revolt,  not  against  the  village,  but  against  the  swallow- 
ing up  of  the  village  as  it  had  once  been  by  the  monster  of  industrialism. 
From  his  childhood  he  could  recall  intimations  of  what  small  communi- 
ties were  like  when  they  were  largely  self-sufficient  and  their  needs  were 
supplied  by  individual  craftsmen  living  on  the  spot.  For  the  more  delib- 
erate tempo  and  more  complex  integration  of  human  relationships  that  the 
older  village  had  achieved  Anderson  felt  a  deep  nostalgia.  He  repudiated 
the  forms  of  success  that  were  currently  available  to  cherish  the  profound 
bodily  satisfactions  that  he  could  feel  in  the  lives  of  Negroes  and  other 
simple  people  who  were  not  possessed  by  the  mania  for  "getting  ahead." 
In  all  his  work  from  first  to  last  one  can  sense  his  worship  of  the  egg,  the 
life-force,  and  his  antipathy  to  the  machine. 


As  late  as  1871  Walt  Whitman  could  compile  in  Democratic  Vistas  an 
appalling  catalogue  of  the  failures  and  corruptions  of  American  society, 
and  yet  still  proclaim  his  confidence  in  the  emergence  of  spiritual  leaders 
who  would  create  out  of  chaos  an  ordered  world  of  national  culture.  But 
when  the  "divine  literatus"  prophesied  by  Whitman  was  vouchsafed  to 
the  twentieth  century  in  the  person  of  Thomas  Stearns  Eliot  (1888-  ), 
he  came,  not  to  advance  the  cause  of  liberalism  and  democracy,  but  to 
repudiate  it  as  "wormeaten"  and  sterile.  Born  in  St.  Louis,  where  his 
grandfather  was  a  university  president  and  his  father  a  banker,  Eliot  re- 
ceived his  education  in  the  Harvard  of  Irving  Babbitt,  with  later  study 
at  the  Sorbonne  and  at  Oxford.  Since  191 3  he  has  made  his  permanent 

5  Dial,  Vol.  72,  p.  80,  from  Anderson's  "An  Apology  for  Crudity,"  Dial,  Vol.  63 
(Nov.  8,  ioi7),p.  438. 


874  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

home  in  England.  In  reaction  against  the  increasing  flatness  of  modern 
life  he  was  willing  to  turn  the  clock  back  three  centuries,  abandon  all  the 
hard-won  gains  of  human  freedom,  and  give  his  allegiance  to  the  ancient 
ideals  of  monarchism  in  politics,  an  authoritarian  church  in  religion,  and 
classicism  in  literature.  Here  clearly  was  a  young  man  deracinated  by  his 
impatience  for  perfection. 

While  still  an  undergraduate  Eliot  achieved  a  local  reputation  for  the 
satirical  pieces  soon  to  be  assembled  in  his  first  book,  Prufrock  and  Other 
Observations  (191 7).  His  fire  was  about  equally  divided  between  two 
targets:  first,  the  vulgarities  of  the  flesh  as  travestied  in  "The  Hippo- 
potamus" and  the  poems  featuring  "ape-neck  Sweeney";  second,  the  fail- 
ures of  the  over-fastidious  to  attain  spiritual  integrity,  a  failure  sardoni- 
cally pictured  in  "The  Love-Song  of  J.  Alfred  Prufrock."  Profiting 
greatly  by  his  study  of  the  intellectual  lyrics  of  John  Donne  and  his 
school  and  even  more  by  assimilation  of  the  French  Symbolists,  Eliot 
developed  the  art  of  innuendo  in  the  direction  indicated  by  Ezra  Pound, 
but  far  beyond  anything  that  Pound  had  ventured.  In  Eliot's  hands  a 
poem's  meaning  became  less  verbal  than  structural.  It  spoke  in  terms  of 
recurrences  and  contrasts,  overtones  and  implications  which  only  the 
highly  educated  could  appreciate.  Hence  it  appealed  at  once  to  a  sophis- 
ticated, academic  audience,  in  whom  the  love  of  beauty  was  less  highly 
developed  than  the  passion  for  exegesis. 

The  elements  of  Eliot's  method  may  best  be  observed  in  his  early 
poems.  He  was  soon  to  elaborate  them  to  a  degree  that  baffled  all  but  the 
most  alert  and  instructed  readers.  Nothing  in  his  work  is  either  spontane- 
ous or  superfluous.  We  may  take  it  for  granted  that  every  syllable  has 
its  function  in  the  poetic  composition,  and  that  its  significance  will  appear 
upon  appropriate  reflection.  The  name  of  "J.  Alfred  Prufrock,"  for  ex- 
ample, may  yield  the  following  overtones.  The  form  of  the  name  itself 
is  unmistakably  bourgeois.  The  given  name  Alfred  has  heavy  Victorian 
connotations.  The  surname  is  compounded  of  Pru-  with  echoes  of  prunes, 
prude,  prudence,  and  prurience,  and  frock  suggesting  a  hampering  effem- 
inacy. In  the  full  title  of  the  poem,  "The  Love  Song  of  J.  Alfred  Pru- 
frock," the  romantic  expectations  raised  by  the  first  three  words  are  ex- 
ploded and  made  absurd  by  the  incongruous  associations  supplied  by  the 
name. 

Eliot's  imagery  is  similarly  loaded.  John  Donne  in  purely  expository 
exuberance  might  imagine  an  extended  series  of  likenesses  between  a  pair 
of  lovers  and  a  compass.  But  let  Eliot  employ  an  equally  fantastic  com- 
parison, 

When  the  evening  is  spread  out  against  the  sky 
Like  a  patient  etherised  upon  a  table—6 

6  This  and  following  quotations  from  the  work  of  T.  S.  Eliot  are  reprinted  from 
Collected  Poems  (1936)  with  the  permission  of  Harcourt,  Brace  and  Company,  Inc. 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  875 

and  the  effect  is  not  merely  to  startle  by  its  ingenuity;  it  is  charged  with 
subtly  unpleasant  suggestions  which  prepare  the  way  for  the  evocation 
of  littered  streets  and  "sawdust  restaurants"  and  eventually  for  the  vio- 
lent metaphor  of  the  yellow  fog  as  a  kind  of  gigantic  filthy  alley  cat 
which  "rubs  its  back  upon  the  window-panes,1'  and  having 

Let  fall  upon  its  back  the  soot  that  falls  from  chimneys, 
Slipped  by  the  terrace,  made  a  sudden  leap, 
And  seeing  that  it  was  a  soft  October  night, 
Curled  once  about  the  house  and  fell  asleep. 

Thus  Eliot  creates  by  indirection  and  suggestion  an  atmosphere  into 
which  the  equivocal  confessions  of  J.  Alfred  Prufrock  may  exhale  like 
sewer  gas. 

To  deepen  the  texture  of  associations  Eliot  early  learned  to  make  use 
of  quotations,  sometimes  as  epigraphs  like  the  lines  from  Dante  at  the  head 
of  the  Prufrock  poem,  sometimes  embedded  in  the  text  itself.  This  de- 
vice became  an  important  element  in  his  later  technique.  It  is  pressed 
into  service  to  convey  a  fling  at  two  representatives  of  nineteenth-century 
liberalism  in  "Cousin  Nancy,"  a  briefly  satirical  ejaculation.  While  the 
undisciplined  ultra-modern  flapper  shocks  her  Bostonian  aunts, 

Upon    the    glazen   shelves    kept   watch, 
Matthew  and  Waldo,  guardians  of  the  faith, 
The  army  of  unalterable  law. 

The  last  line  in  itself  constitutes  a  direct  jeer,  however  little  deserved 
by  either  Arnold  or  Emerson,  who  were  not  exactly  stodgy  supporters  of 
the  status  quo.  It  also  introduces  reverberations  that  call  up  the  image  of 
the  bat-like,  bugaboo  Lucifer  in  the  sonnet  by  George  Meredith  from 
which  the  line  is  taken. 

The  tenor  of  Eliot's  early  poetry  is  not  altogether  destructive.  Though 
he  delighted  to  puncture  pretense  and  illusion,  he  was  well  aware  that 
brief  passages  of  thrilling  loveliness  might  attain  a  maximum  effect  in 
contrast  to  a  series  of  repulsive  images.  His  first  experiments  in  this  direc- 
tion may  be  studied  in  the  few  lines  beginning 

I  have  seen  them  riding  seaward  on  the  waves 

at  the  end  of  "Prufrock,"  and  even  more  strikingly  in  the  final  stanza 
and  a  half  of  "Sweeney  Among  the  Nightingales."  This  constant  resort 
to  opposites  in  close  conjunction  anticipated  what  was  to  become  a  major 
theme  of  Eliot's  maturer  poetry— the  contrast  of  decay  and  regeneration. 
In  "Gerontion,"  The  Waste  Land  and  "The  Hollow  Men"  Eliot  might 
seem  to  be  laying  disproportionate  stress  on  the  sterility  of  modern  life, 
but  the  impression,  though  widely  held,  is  superficial  and  contrary  to  fact. 
In  all  three  poems  the  means  to  "quicken  a  new  birth"  are  indicated,  not, 


876  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

however,  in  Shelleyan  or  in  traditionally  religious  terms.  The  images  that 
Eliot  employs,  in  fact,  are  frequently  so  unconventional  as  to  be  misun- 
derstood. 

"Gerontion"  is  a  systematic  study  of  the  pathology  of  disbelief  as 
gathered  up  in  the  mind  of  an  old  man,  not  the  author  but  "a  representa- 
tive human  consciousness."  7  In  evocative  phrases  Eliot  presents  an  ap- 
palling series  of  ethical  abnormalities  and  diseases,  barrenness,  paralysis 
of  the  will,  sexual  corruption,  superstitious  fears,  spiritual  stagnation,  all 
stemming  from  the  repudiation  of  Christian  belief  or  from  inability  to 
accept  faith  in  passional  terms.  Gerontion  can  neither  relinquish  a  life 
that  has  become  meaningless  nor  yield  himself  confidingly  to  death  in 
Christ.  Consequently  his  "thoughts  of  a  dry  brain"  symbolize  the  nega- 
tive aspects  of  a  withering,  intellectualized  cosmopolitan  culture. 

By  an  almost  incredible  tour  de  force  Eliot  has  created  in  The  Waste 
Land  an  essentially  dramatic  opposition  between  the  meanness,  stupidity, 
sordidness,  and  hideous  boredom  of  middle-class  existence  as  contrasted 
with  intimations  of  the  supreme  values  that  men  might  realize  if  they 
could  attain  to  life's  abundance.  The  cleverness  of  the  poem  lies  in  its 
powerful  restatement  of  the  human  need  for  religious  regeneration  in 
symbols  entirely  independent  of  Christian  convention.  With  the  central 
image  of  the  sterile  region  encountered  by  Perceval  in  his  grail-quest 
Eliot  has  associated  numerous  other  esoteric  images  drawn  from  folk- 
beliefs  as  described  in  Frazer's  The  Golden  Bough,  and  these  in  turn  he 
has  bedecked  with  snatches  of  poetry  which  reopen  still  further  imagi- 
native vistas.  The  resulting  complexity  and  richness  of  connotation  can 
hardly  be  matched  by  anything  in  previous  literature,  nor  can  it  be  suc- 
cessfully summarized.  It  can  be  fully  understood  only  by  those  who 
recognize  the  subtlest  of  literary  echoes. 

A  single  rather  obvious  illustration  may  suggest  the  possibilities  of  the 
method.  To  remind  readers  of  the  highest  intensity  that  the  love  of  man 
and  woman  can  attain  Eliot  quotes  scraps  from  the  libretto  of  Wagner's 
Tristan  und  Isolde;  then  to  illustrate  the  degradation  of  passionate  experi- 
ence he  evokes  echoes  of  a  cheap  popular  song  and 

The  sound  of  horns  and  motors,  which  shall  bring 
Sweeney  to  Mrs.  Porter  in  the  spring, 

and  further  the  listless  amour  of  the  typist  and  "the  young  man  carbun- 
cular."  But  this  single  strand  plucked  from  the  ever  shifting  and  dream- 
like tapestry  that  Eliot  has  woven  can  only  faintly  suggest  the  intricacy 
of  his  method  and  the  effects  he  can  achieve.  His  poem  speaks  as  a  whole, 

7  For  detailed  discussion  see  W.  Mankowitz:  "Notes  on  'Gerontion,' "  and  C. 
Brooks:  "The  Waste  Land:  An  Analysis,"  in  T.  S.  Eliot:  A  Study  of  His  Writings  by 
Several  Hands,  ed.  B.  Rajan  (London,  1947). 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  877 

and  the  parts  have  little  or  no  relevance  to  anything  except  their  place 
and  function  in  the  complete  structure. 

"The  Hollow  Men"  may  be  thought  of  as  a  coda  to  The  Waste  Land. 
Here  again  we  encounter  the  inevitable  contrast  between  those  who  still 
in  life  are  spiritually  dead  and  those  who  have  found  life  in  death  in 
"death's  other  Kingdom." 

Eyes   I   dare   not   meet  in   dreams 

In  death's  dream  kingdom 

These  do  not  appear: 

There,  the  eyes  are 

Sunlight  on  a  broken  column 

There,  is  a  tree  swinging 

And  voices  are 

In  the  wind's  singing 

More  distant  and  more  solemn 

Than  a  fading  star. 

Most  of  the  terms  used  in  this  poem  (in  the  lines  just  quoted,  "eyes," 
"death's  dream  kingdom,"  "sunlight,"  "a  broken  column,"  "a  tree,"  "the 
wind,"  "a  fading  star")  are  either  obviously  emblematic  or  acquire  their 
symbolic  cogency  from  their  consistent  use  elsewhere  in  Eliot's  poetry. 

Eliot's  career  as  a  poet  has  been  as  consciously  organized  as  the  poems 
that  he  has  composed.  To  a  friend  at  Harvard  he  wrote  soon  after  he 
established  himself  in  England  that  there  are  only  two  ways  to  become 
important  in  literature:  one  is  to  write  a  great  deal  and  to  keep  one's 
name  constantly  before  the  public;  the  other  is  to  write  very  little,  but  to 
take  pains  that  every  poem  should  be  perfect  in  its  kind  so  that  each 
should  constitute  an  event.  He  has  consistently  followed  the  second 
course.  To  support  the  effect  of  his  infrequent  poems,  however,  he  has 
written  numerous  reviews  and  critical  articles  which  have  been  only  less 
influential  than  his  verse.  By  means  of  them  he  has  trained  a  generation 
of  readers  to  respect  the  autonomy  of  poetry  in  terms  both  of  language 
and  of  structure.  He  has  made  war  on  contemporary  disintegration  by 
starting  a  revolution  of  taste.  In  The  Sacred  Wood  (1920),  Dante  (1929), 
and  Selected  Essays  (1932)— if  a  selection  may  be  permissible  from  a 
remarkably  consistent  and  self-sustaining  body  of  criticism— he  has  suc- 
ceeded to  a  degree  in  dispelling  the  last  fumes  of  the  liberal  and  romantic 
attitudes.  In  effect  he  has  reached  back  through  the  seventeenth  century 
to  the  stable  world  of  the  Middle  Ages,  ignoring  and  nullifying  the 
Renaissance  with  its  heady  illusions  of  progress  and  human  perfectibility. 
His  reconstitution  of  bases  for  the  human  spirit  by  recovery  of  a  usable 
past  may  best  be  considered  in  the  context  of  the  following  chapter. 


878  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

While  Eliot  would  nullify  merely  the  past  three  centuries  of  man's 
striving,  Robinson  JefTers  (1887-  )  would  calmly  obliterate  from  the 
earth  all  traces  of  the  human  race,  which  he  regards  as  at  once  the  instru- 
ment and  the  victim  of  intolerable  perverseness.  Far  better  than  the  ob- 
scene instability  of  man  is  the  serene  order  of  inanimate  nature.  Not  since 
Swift  has  there  appeared  in  English  a  writer  capable  of  such  tonic  misan- 
thropy. 

After  two  inconclusive  early  volumes  JefTers  began  in  Tamar  (1924) 
and  in  Roan  Stallion,  Tamar,  and  Other  Foems  (1925)  a  series  of  hysteri- 
cally tense  narrative  poems  dwelling  with  fascinated  attention  on  besti- 
ality, incest,  blood-lust,  and  similar  violent  themes.  Superficially  these 
horrors  might  seem  akin  to  those  of  Attic  tragedy,  but  they  serve  a  totally 
different  purpose.  The  inevitable  doom  that  fell  upon  those  who  trans- 
gressed man's  proper  bounds  taught  the  Greeks  to  respect  human  limita- 
tions. The  JefTers  hero,  on  the  other  hand,  becomes  significant  only  when 
he  transcends  his  humanity  bv  means  of  some  sort  of  traumatic  fixation 
and  so  like  an  unthinking  part  of  nature  is  "whirled  round  in  earth's 
diurnal  course  with  rocks  and  stones  and  trees."  The  poet's  attitude  is 
extreme  but  not  unique.  It  has  been  taken  by  others  who  have  revolted 
against  human  imperfections.  St.  Francis,  for  example,  rebuked  the  weak- 
nesses of  his  friars  by  praising  the  superior  submissiveness  of  a  lifeless 
corpse. 

The  transcendence  that  JefTers  favors  is  not  religious  but  cataleptic. 
Only  when  men  and  women  are  swept  by  forces  beyond  their  compre- 
hension and  independent  of  their  will  do  they  become  comparable  to 
mountains,  seas,  and  stars.  Otherwise  they  are  merely  puny  soft  things, 
better  off  if  drowned.  In  Dear  Judas  (1929)  he  condemns  as  futile  the 
hope  of  uplifting  mankind  and  pictures  the  betrayer  of  Christ  as  moved 
by  the  truest  understanding.  Only  after  the  extirpation  of  all  that  is 
human  in  her,  and  after  earthly  death,  does  Gudrun  in  At  the  Birth  of  an 
Age  attain  identification  with  the  poison-nourished  God,  the  ultimate 
state  of  being  in  JefTers'  theology: 

I  am  one  with  him,  I  will  share  his  being 

I  will  enter  the  cloud  of  stars,  I  will  eat  the  whole  serpent  again. 

it  is  good  for  God 

Not  to  be  quiet,  but  for  men  not  to  live  long.8 

His  unorthodox  and  startling  creed  is  expounded  by  JefTers  with  extraor- 
dinary technical  proficiency  and  a  thorough  command  of  the  resources 
of  psychopathology  and  folklore.  His  indictment  bears  hard  especially 
upon  the  intellectualized  unnaturalness  of  an  urban  culture.  For  the 
United  States,  as  typifying  the  putrefactions  of  modernity,  he  has  only 

8  From  Solstice  and  Other  Poems  (Copyright,  1935,  by  Modern  Library),  p.  92. 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  879 

the  ironic  appreciation  which  he  might  bestow  on  the  iridescence  of  dead 
fish. 

You  make  haste  on  decay:   not  blameworthy;  life  is  good, 

be  it  stubbornly  long  or  suddenly 
A    mortal    splendor:     meteors    are    not    needed    less    than 

mountains:  shine,  perishing  republic. 

But  for  my  children,  I  would  have  them  keep  their  distance 

from  the  thickening  center;  corruption 
Never    has    been    compulsory,    when    the    cities    lie    at    the 

monster's  feet  there  are  left  the  mountains. 

And  boys,  be  in  nothing  so  moderate  as  in  love  of  man,  a 

clever  servant,  insufferable  master. 
There   is  the  trap  that  catches  noblest   spirits,   that  caught 

— they  say— God,  when  he  walked  on  earth.9 

JefTers,  however,  is  not  a  mouse  to  relish  cheese  curdled  from  the  milk 
of  human  kindness.  In  revulsion  from  the  sickening  ways  of  modern  civ- 
ilization he  prefers  the  fierce  keen  cruelty  of  hawks.  Only  when  man 
yields  himself  to  the  dark  primitive  urgings  of  his  being  does  he  partake 
of  the  grandeur  of  insentient  things  and  escape  from  mortal  mawkishness. 
Hence  this  poet's  preference  for  episodes  of  almost  unbearable  violence,  a 
preference  which  has  established  him  as  the  undisputed  master  of  con- 
temporary baroque  writing.10 


Naturalistic  fiction,  introduced  in  America  by  Crane  and  Norris  in 
the  eighteen-nineties,  was  not  conspicuously  practiced  during  the  com- 
fortable first  decade  of  the  twentieth  century.  After  the  First  World  War, 
however,  it  was  revived  by  the  leading  novelists  of  the  twenties  and 
thirties.  Its  chief  permutations  may  be  illustrated  in  the  work  of  five 
major  writers. 

The  first  of  these,  like  Mark  Twain  and  Cooper,  entered  literature 
without  intention,  and  to  the  end  of  his  career  maintained  a  humorous 
assumption  that  he  had  blundered  into  the  wrong  house.  The  Michigan- 
born  Ring  Lardner  (1885-193 3),  without  the  benefit  of  a  more  than  casual 
education,  achieved  an  early  success  as  a  sports  writer  and  columnist  for 
Chicago  and  New  York  papers.  For  purposes  of  his  column  he  developed 
a  natural  mimetic  gift.  Such  books  as  You  Knovu  Me,  Al  (19 16),  Gulli- 

9  From  Roan  Stallion  (Copyright,  1925,  by  Boni  &  Liveright;  Copyright,  1935,  by 
Modern  Library),  p.  95. 

10  JefTers  found  and  improved  one  of  the  themes  best  adapted  to  his  talent  when 
he  adapted  the  Medea  of  Euripides.  As  played  by  Judith  Anderson  this  poetic  drama 
was  one  of  the  most  impressive  pieces  of  theatre  that  Broadway  has  seen  for  a  long 
tjme. 


88o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tie's  Travels  (19 17),  Treat  'Em  Rough  (19 18),  and  The  Big  Town 
(192 1 ),  his  first  novel,  placed  him  in  the  front  rank  of  vernacular  humor- 
ists. His  favorite  character-types  at  this  time  were  ludicrously  conceited 
morons  or  depersonalized  average  people.  They  were  presented  merely 
as  figures  of  fun. 

During  the  decade  of  the  postwar  boom  Lardner's  tone  became  more 
sardonic  and  savage.  He  showed  a  morbid  interest  in  examples  of  vicious- 
ness,  cruelty,  and  stupidity  exaggerated  to  a  repulsive  degree.  In  a  suc- 
cession of  books  beginning  with  How  to  Write  Short  Stories  (1924)  he 
won  distinction  as  the  nation's  leading  expert  on  contemporary  insensi- 
tiveness  and  vacuity.  His  specialty  lay  in  his  ability  to  report  with  seem- 
ing unconsciousness  the  appalling  mediocrity  and  vanity  of  the  middle- 
class  soul.  Like  O.  Henry  he  chose  to  write  about  very  ordinary  people, 
professional  athletes,  salesmen,  suburbanites,  song  writers,  barbers,  ac- 
tresses, stenographers,  and  the  like,  but  the  glamorous  romantic  lighting 
that  O.  Henry  contrived  for  his  stories  has  now  guttered  out.  Here  are 
explored  the  sewers  of  human  nature:  the  private  sadism  of  a  champion 
prizefighter,  the  dullness  and  spite  of  an  apparently  amiable  old  couple 
celebrating  their  golden  honeymoon,  the  crass  snobbishness  of  a  son  and 
daughter  who  have  nominally  come  home  from  college  to  spend  Christ- 
mas with  their  parents,  the  selfishness  and  petty  greed  exhibited  in  the 
letters  of  a  song  writer  and  a  stenographer,  the  general  indifference  to 
any  values  but  those  which  flatter  the  ego.  Lardner  at  the  last  would  seem 
to  have  repudiated  every  form  of  Jazz  Age  success,  including  his  own. 
His  satirical  autobiography,  The  Story  of  a  Wonder  Man  (1927),  squirms 
with  a  self-depreciation  that  is  painful  to  contemplate.  The  anatomist 
of  social  corruption  has  at  last  become  infected. 


Not  less  impressed  than  Lardner  by  evidences  of  degeneration,  but 
better  provided  with  powers  of  clinical  detachment,  John  Dos  Passos 
( 1 896-  )  passed  from  Harvard  to  ambulance  driving  on  the  western 
front  and  almost  immediately  began  to  make  fiction  out  of  his  experi- 
ences. His  first  attempt  at  novel  writing,  One  Man's  Initiation  (19 17;  re- 
issued as  First  Encounter,  1945),  consisted  of  little  more  than  unorgan- 
ized boyish  impressions,  but  Three  Soldiers  (1921)  successfully  portrayed 
the  reactions  to  war  of  several  type  characters,  including  a  young  in- 
tellectual nauseated  by  army  discipline  who  seems  to  embody  the  author's 
point  of  view.  After  an  unimpressive  and  somewhat  "arty"  third  novel 
Dos   Passos  struck   out   his   first  mature   work   in   Manhattan    Transfer 

0925)- 

This  collective  portrait  of  metropolitan  life  may  be  profitably  com- 
pared with  Howells'  picture  of  New  York  in  A  Hazard  of  New  Fortunes, 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  88 1 

particularly  from  the  standpoint  of  fictional  techniques.  Whereas  the 
older  writer  followed  the  traditional  method  of  taking  individual  charac- 
ters into  the  social  milieu  he  wished  to  describe  and  viewing  it  through 
their  eyes  and  in  terms  of  their  experiences,  Dos  Passos  made  the  city 
itself  his  protagonist  and  introduced  episodes  in  the  lives  of  some  dozen 
representative  men  and  women  merely  as  a  means  of  indicating  the  un- 
healthy strains  inseparable  from  urban  life.  None  of  his  characters  are 
distinguished  by  force  of  personality.  With  hardly  an  exception  they  are 
drifting  to  disintegration.  Everywhere  one  looks  there  is  nothing  to  be 
seen  but  decay. 

Besides  discarding  the  individual  hero  Dos  Passos  introduced  other 
novelties  of  technique,  such  as  the  brief  passages  of  impressionistic  de- 
scription which  precede  each  chapter.  These  experimental  devices  were 
still  further  multiplied  in  the  three  volumes  that  compose  the  trilogy, 
U.S.A.  (1938),  his  most  monumental  work.  Again  the  main  fabric  is 
composed  of  interwoven  episodes  from  the  lives  of  various  people  on 
different  social  levels.  By  way  of  background  the  author  inserts  descrip- 
tive material  as  mirrored  by  the  "Camera  Eye,"  and  occasional  "News- 
reel"  sections  made  up  of  headlines,  advertising  slogans,  scraps  of  popular 
song,  and  current  sayings,  all  jumbled  together  like  montage  in  the 
movies.  There  are  also  intercalated  biographies  of  some  twenty-five 
prominent  Americans  such  as  Edison,  Debs,  Hearst,  Rudolf  Valentino, 
the  Unknown  Soldier.  All  this  by  way  of  creating  atmosphere  in  rather 
solid  chunks. 

The  three  parts,  The  4.2nd  Parallel  (1930),  1919  (1932),  and  The  Big 
Money  (1936),  recall  the  social  development  of  the  country  during  the 
first  three  decades  of  the  present  century,  with  emphasis  on  the  period 
of  the  First  World  War  and  the  postwar  inflation.  The  theme,  remark- 
ably sustained  throughout  and  brought  to  a  climax  in  the  third  part,  is 
the  corruption  of  human  nature  in  a  civilization  vitiated  by  commercial- 
ism and  social  injustice.  The  defect  of  the  work  is  its  lack  of  effective 
relief,  since  the  interspersed  biographies  are  hardly  sufficient  to  lighten 
the  prevailing  sordidness.  Where  everyone  is  rotten  and  everything  is 
slimy  comparative  values  are  impossible.  Dos  Passos  presents  us  with  such 
a  monotony  of  disintegration  that  the  reader's  nerves  become  desensi- 
tized and  refuse  to  function. 

A  somewhat  similar  overstress  may  be  responsible  for  the  stylistic  oddi- 
ties in  this  author's  work.  His  mannered  sentences,  his  ugly  couplings  of 
two  or  more  words  to  make  one,  are  symptoms  of  his  restless  dissatisfac- 
tion with  conventional  rules.  Every  aspect  of  his  writing  must  be  keyed 
up  to  the  utmost,  until  as  one  reviewer  has  said,  it  "moves,  jumps,  crack- 
les with  the  American  tempo."  After  a  certain  amount  of  this,  one  is 
ready  to  put  a  high  premium  on  celestial  timelessness. 


882  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

In  the  intervals  between  novels  Dos  Passos  has  written  many  travel 
books,  and  in  these,  as  well  as  in  Three  Plays  (1934),  his  concern  over 
social  problems  is  even  more  overtly  expressed  than  in  his  fiction.  He  has 
given  much  attention  to  labor-management  relations,  to  the  Spanish  Civil 
War,  and  to  the  state  of  the  nation  in  general.  Recently  he  seems  to  be 
seeking  a  broader  understanding  of  democratic  institutions.  His  Adven- 
tures of  a  Young  Man  (1939)  portrays  the  disillusionment  of  a  too  hasty 
adherent  of  Communism.  The  Ground  We  Stand  On  (1941)  comprises 
a  cultural  survey  of  the  foundations  of  democracy.  Number  One  (1943) 
traces  the  career  of  an  American  demagogue  obviously  modeled  on  Huey 
Long.  Like  Upton  Sinclair,  Dos  Passos  would  seem  to  be  writing  books  in 
order  to  gain  an  understanding  of  the  world  he  lives  in.  Like  Sinclair  too, 
he  is  more  earnest  than  gifted.  A  more  highly  endowed  novelist  would 
possess  sufficient  taste  to  avoid  the  depths  of  vulgarity  and  sexual  realism 
to  which  Dos  Passos  conscientiously  descends. 


Sexuality  is  systematically  overplayed  likewise  by  Ernest  Hemingway 
(1898-  ),  but  with  a  sheer  physical  abandon  that  places  it  on  a  level 
with  the  mating  of  barnyard  creatures.  There  is  moreover  in  his  fiction 
an  instinct  for  human  dilemmas  of  greater  import  than  the  social  malaises 
which  fatally  attract  lesser  novelists  in  search  of  larger  subjects.  His  un- 
compromising facing  of  life  on  a  materialistic  plane  has  made  him  one  of 
the  most  clean-cut,  though  not  one  of  the  most  subtle  writers  of  his 
generation. 

Born  in  Illinois,  he  spent  much  of  his  boyhood  fishing  and  hunting  in 
the  Michigan  woods.  He  has  been  successively  a  reporter  in  If  ansas  City, 
a  volunteer  ambulance  driver  in  the  First  World  War,  a  war  correspond- 
ent in  the  Near  East,  and  a  Parisian  expatriate  in  the  wake  of  Gertrude 
Stein.  In  general  he  has  depended  on  personal  experience  for  the  back- 
grounds of  his  fiction.  In  the  latest  and  weakest  of  his  novels  the  degree 
of  personal  exposure  has  been  almost  embarrassing. 

His  first  books,  Three  Stories  and  Ten  Poems  (1923)  and  In  Our  Time 
(1924),  both  published  in  Paris,  show  him  already  a  master  of  the  ob- 
jective technique  and  the  hard-boiled  attitude  which  his  later  works  have 
made  famous.  Practically  all  his  characters  are  tough  people,  either  cyni- 
cal intellectuals  of  the  "lost  generation"  or  primitives  such  as  soldiers, 
frontiersmen,  Indians,  bull-fighters,  pugilists,  sportsmen,  and  criminals, 
whose  unemotional  fortitude  contrasts  favorably  with  the  hysteria  of 
civilization.  Their  stories  are  presented  coldly,  with  a  rhetoric  of  studied 
understatement  and  clipped  dialogue.  Though  In  Our  Time  was  reprinted 
in  this  country  along  with  a  mediocre  satirical  novel  called  The  Torrents 
of  Spring  ( 1926),  the  impact  of  Hemingway  was  first  felt  when  his  pow- 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  883 

erful  short  story  "The  Killers"  appeared  in  magazine  form.11  The  body 
of  his  work  to  1949  includes  four  full-length  novels,  something  over  fifty 
short  stories,  a  play,  and  two  volumes  of  descriptive  prose.  Among  the 
shorter  pieces  are  unforgettable  tales  in  Hemingway's  special  manner, 
notably  "Fifty  Grand,"  "A  Clean,  Well-Lighted  Place,"  and  "The  Snows 
of  Kilimanjaro."  His  most  important  productions,  however,  are  the  four 
novels. 

The  first  two  are  clinical  studies  of  lives  devastated  by  the  war.  The 
Sun  Also  Rises  (1926),  set  in  Paris  and  Spain,  deals  with  the  cosmopolitan 
detritus  of  good  society  which  haunts  the  fashionable  bars  and  night 
clubs.  The  group  includes  among  others  an  American  newspaper  corre- 
spondent, a  Jewish  novelist,  and  a  Greek  count,  all  attached  to  Lady  Brett 
Ashley,  a  British  society  woman  who  knows  how  to  preserve  her  charm 
even  in  alcohol  and  who  at  the  moment  is  enjoying  a  promiscuous  interval 
between  husbands.  The  story  of  her  renunciation  of  the  matador  Romero 
lest  she  spoil  his  career  is  told  by  the  American  correspondent,  himself 
in  love  with  Brett  though  disqualified  from  competition  by  a  war  injury. 

This  tragedy  of  aimlessness  was  succeeded  by  a  tragedy  of  broken 
hopes.  A  Farewell  to  Arms  (1929)  takes  us  to  the  Italian  front  and  in- 
cludes a  vivid  account  of  the  terrible  retreat  from  Caporetto.  An  Ameri- 
can lieutenant  in  the  Italian  Red  Cross  falls  in  love  with  an  English  nurse 
and  she  with  him.  Both  have  previously  suffered  more  attrition  than  hu- 
man nerves  can  stand,  and  in  their  passionate  attachment  they  find  a 
psychological  refuge  from  the  incessant  horror  of  war.  They  escape  to 
brief  happiness  in  Switzerland,  but  in  giving  birth  to  a  child  the  girl  dies. 
The  ending  is  far  from  inevitable.  It  is  a  comment  on  the  looseness  of 
Hemingway's  artistry  that  the  moving  picture  version  of  this  novel  was 
equipped  with  alternative  sad  and  happy  conclusions. 

Neither  of  the  two  stories  just  described  has  immediate  social  implica- 
tions, but  in  his  third  novel,  To  Have  and  Have  Not  (1937),  set  among 
the  Florida  keys,  Hemingway  turns  to  the  problem  of  the  individual 
pitted  against  society.  Harry  Morgan— the  name  is  that  of  an  old-time 
buccaneer— is  a  rugged  character  whose  struggle  to  maintain  his  family 
gradually  drives  him  into  smuggling,  bootlegging,  and  murder.  Picked 
up  dying  after  a  battle  royal  with  escaping  bank  robbers,  he  gasps  out 
the  conviction  that  he  has  acquired  the  hard  way:  "One  man  alone  ain't 
got ...  no  chance." 

In  For  Whom  the  Bell  Tolls  (1940),  a  novel  of  the  civil  war  in  Spain, 
the  one  man  is  no  longer  alone  but  is  serving  on  the  popular  front.  Robert 
Jordan,  a  university  instructor  from  Montana,  has  joined  the  Loyalist 
forces  as  an  exgert  in  demolition.  While  under  orders  to  co-operate  with 
a  band  of  guerrillas  in  blowing  up  a  bridge,  he  encounters  the  girl  Maria, 

11  In  Scribner's  Magazine,  Vol.  81  (March,  1927),  p.  227. 


884  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

who  has  suffered  in  the  Republican  cause,  and  guided  by  the  earthy 
wisdom  of  Pilar,  an  elder  woman  of  prodigious  vitality,  he  enjoys  with  her 
two  nights  of  rapture  in  a  particularly  commodious  sleeping-bag.  Of  course 
incidents  of  peril  are  interspersed.  After  the  bridge-blowing,  Jordan's 
leg  is  broken  and  he  is  left:  to  sell  his  life  as-jjearly  as  he  can.  But  he  has 
at  least  learned  that  "the  world  is  a  fine  place  and  worth  fighting  for." 

Little  by  little  Hemingway  would  seem  to  have  written  himself  out 
of  the  postwar  dumps.  Even  assuming  the  omnipresence  of  nothingness, 
he  has  discovered  that  men  have  the  choice  of  facing  the  inevitable  with 
forxkiide  or  with  despair,  and  that  there  is  something  to  be  gained  by 
choosing  fortitude.  Under  the  naturalistic  mask  we  suspect  in  Heming- 
way some  features  of  a  temperamental  romantic. 

#         *         * 

\  The  strained  and  pathological  characters  which  he  has  gone  far  to 
seek  on  the  borderlines  where .  civilized  society  lapses  into  the  savagery 
of  war  or  crime  are  brought  home  and  domesticated  in  the  fiction  of  the 
two  Southern  representatives  in  this  group  of  naturalistic  novelists.  The 
first  of  these,  William  Faulkner  (1897-  ),  grew  up  in  Oxford,  Missis- 
sippi, the  son  of  a  distinguished  but  genteelly  poor  family  not  unlike  his 
own  Sartoris  clan.  His  desultory  schooling  was  supplemented  by  experi- 
ences in  the  Canadian  Flying  Corps  and  the  Royal  Air  Force  during  the 
First  World  War.  As  a  reporter  in  New  Orleans  he  was  for  a  time  closely 
associated  with  Sherwood  Anderson,  who  encouraged  him  to  give  his  at- 
tention to  prose  tales  rather  than  to  poetry.  The  twenty  volumes  of  fic- 
tion, long  and  short,  produced  since  1926  reveal  Faulkner  as  one  of  the 
most  dexterous  and  versatile  writers  of  our  time. 

Apart  from  aviation,  which  provided  themes  for  his  first  novel,  Soldier's 
Pay  (1926),  and  for  Pylon  (1935),  the  basis  for  something  more  than 
half  of  Faulkner's  books  has  been  regional.  Beginning  with  Sartoris  (1929) 
he  has  developed  the  saga  of  an  imaginary  Yoknapatawpha  County  in  the 
Mississippi  Delta  centering  in  the  shire  town  of  Jefferson.  The  legends 
of  this  country  of  the  mind  extend  back  to  the  early  encounters  between 
whites  and  Indians  and  forward  to  our  own  day,  but  the  high  point  is 
supplied  by  events  connected  with  the  Civil  War,  as  related  particularly 
in  The  Unvanquished  (1938).  Like  the  Sartoris  family,  the  Compsons 
were  once  patriarchally  powerful  representatives  of  the  Old  South,  but 
are  now  fallen  into  a  decay  which  in  The  Sound  and  the  Fury  (1929)  is 
pictured  in  terms  of  its  impact  on  the  mind  of  an  idiot  son  of  the  house 
and  three  other  witnesses.  In  Absalom,  Absalom!  (1936)  we  follow  the 
maniacal  design  of  Colonel  Sutpen  to  build  a  big  house  and  establish  a 
landed  family,  an  idee  fixe  productive  of  as  choice  a  selection  of  horrors 
as  Faulkner  has  ever  contrived,  though  Sanctuary   (1931)  and  Light  in 


ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY  885 

August  (1932)  are  close  contenders  for  macabre  honors.  The  Hamlet 
(1940)  complements  the  story  of  the  degeneracy  of  the  plantation  aris- 
tocracy by  tracing  the  rise  of  the  Snopes  family,  a  poor-white  clan  un- 
hampered by  genteel  scruples. 

To  render  the  full  force  of  these  episodes  in  regional  history  Faulkner 
has  made  himself  something  of  a  specialist  in  what  some  critics  have  re- 
ferred to  as  "the  submarine  depths  of  consciousness"  and  others  have 
labeled  "miscegenation,  rot,  murder,  and  ruin."  In  this  respect  he  may  be 
said  to  be  a  continuator  of  the  Gothic  strain  in  our  early  fiction.  He  has 
often  been  compared  to  Hawthorne  in  the  latter's  darker  moments,  and 
minus  of  course  Hawthorne's  New  England  reticence.  But  it  is  equally 
pertinent,  as  Malcolm  Cowley  has  pointed  out,12  to  regard  Faulkner  as 
inheriting  the  vein  of  humorous  observation  of  Southern  folk-ways  first 
opened  by  Longstreet  in  Georgia  Scenes.  Though  Longstreet  was  amused 
by  the  rude  manners  of  the  back  country  while  Faulkner  is  a  collector 
of  psychological  enormities,  both  exhibit  a  taste  for  grotesque  departures 
from  normality.  It  is  significant  that  some  of  Faulkner's  finest  writing 
occurs  in  frankly  humorous  narratives  such  as  "Old  Man"  and  "Painted 
Horses."  13  The  fantasia  of  horrors  crowded  into  some  of  his  books  must 
not  be  taken  over-seriously. 

But  as  a  prose  artist  Faulkner  is  to  be  taken  more  seriously  than  any 
other  novelist  of  the  naturalistic  group.  He  has  shown  a  constant  aware- 
ness of  the  technical  problems  of  narrative  art,  and  an  extreme  virtuosity 
in  the  means  of  solving  them.  Some  of  his  stories  may  be  studied  with 
profit  as  exercises  in  the  stereoscopic  blending  of  incidents  presented 
simultaneously  as  occurring  in  the  past  and  being  told  in  the  present.  It 
is  not  important  that  his  technique  sometimes  fails  to  achieve  the  end  for 
which  it  is  designed,  or  that  the  author  sometimes  resorts  to  cheap  tactics. 
What  matters  is  that  his  work  is  continuously  vitalized  by  creative  excite- 
ment. He  was  awarded  a  Nobel  Prize  in  1950. 


The  development  of  Erskine  Caldwell  (1903-  ),  Georgia-born  and 
educated  at  the  University  of  Virginia,  has  been  almost  exactly  the  reverse 
of  Ring  Lardner's,  whose  first  humorous  mood  gave  way  more  and  more 
to  a  bitter  disgust.  Caldwell's  first  two  novels  illustrating  back-country 
ways,  The  Bastard  and  Poor  Fool  (both  1930),  were  so  sensationally  hor- 
rible that  they  could  hardly  be  read.  With  Tobacco  Road  (1932),  however, 
he  learned  to  moderate  his  realism  and  to  bring  out  the  grotesque  humor  of 
a  degeneracy  which  would  be  shocking  in  reality.  His  success  in  concoct- 
ing a  new  type  of  comic  chutney  was  attested  by  the  phenomenally  long 

12  The  Portable  Faulkner  (1946),  p.  22. 

13  From  The  Wild  Palms  (1939)  and  The  Hamlet  (1940)  respectively. 


886  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

run  of  the  play  bv  Jack  Kirkland  based  on  this  novel.  Even  more  hilarious 
exposes  of  the  absurdities  and  obscenities  of  poor  whites,  mingled  with 
indignation  at  the  injustice  meted  out  to  them  by  society,  may  be  found 
in  God's  Little  Acre  (1933)  and  Journeyman  (1935),  the  books  in  which 
Caldwell's  powers  of  characterization  attain  their  apogee.  His  later  full- 
length  books  dealing  with  sharecroppers  and  small-town  folks  are  not  less 
heavily  interlarded  with  delinquency,  depravity,  and  sudden  death,  but 
this  type  of  drollery  cannot  be  indefinitely  extended  without  seeming- 
repetitious.  In  France  among  a  people  whose  economy  has  been  shattered 
by  war  the  fantastic  irresponsibility  and  animal  cunning  of  Caldwell's 
characters  have  ensured  his  books  an  enthusiastic  reception.  Americans  are 
probably  more  impressed  by  narratives  in  the  tragic  mood,  such  as  the 
stark  and  terrible  ''Daughter"  from  Kneel  to  the  Rising  Sim  (1935).  Cald- 
well has  made  serious  studies  of  people  existing  below  the  level  of  possible 
subsistence  in  this  country.  He  has  reported  the  gigantic  effort  of  Russia 
to  repel  the  German  invasion.  When  he  adopts  the  comic  mask  it  is  to 
make  his  records  of  deprivation  tolerable.  Nothing  in  his  tone  suggests  a 
writer  who  can  lightheartedly  shrug  off  the  appalling  sum  of  human 
misery  endured  by  sodden  millions  in  the  richest  nation  in  the  world. 

The  experimental  novel,  conceived  by  Zola  as  a  kind  of  superior  social 
document,  would  seem  to  have  come  nearly  to  the  point  of  exhaustion.  To 
convey  the  full  import  of  what  they  are  feeling  recent  novelists  have  been 
turning  more  and  more  to  fantasy  and  symbolism.  Signs  of  the  coming 
change  are  apparent  in  Faulkner.  The  purely  objective  and  "scientific" 
attitude  cultivated  by  the  early  naturalistic  school  is  giving  place  to  more 
various  and  flexible  techniques. 


Chapter  46 


p 


LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT 

In  the  last  chapter  we  surveyed  a  group  of  writers  who  found  life  in  the 
twentieth  century  far  from  satisfactory  and  man  as  shaped  by  an  American 
environment  less  than  completely  human.  The  contemporary  world  as 
mirrored  or  symbolized  in  their  imagination  seldom  permitted  the  healthy 
development  of  body  or  spirit.  It  was  peopled  by  frustrate  and  twisted 
souls,  sometimes  defiant  but  more  often  crushed,  whose  actions  had  be- 
come stereotyped  and  meaningless.  In  the  midst  of  excessive  national  pros- 
perity there  was  no  joy  or  abundance  of  life,  and  where  prosperity  was 
lacking  a  savage  violence  nourished.  The  struggle  to  survive  was  bitter 
and  unending,  social  injustice  the  rule.  Such  an  atmosphere  could  be  pro- 
ductive only  of  fungoid  growths,  whose  monstrosity  might  provoke  the 
uneasy  laughter  of  outraged  sensibilities. 

Prophets  and  preachers,  the  indignant,  the  thoughtful,  and  the  sensitive, 
have  yearned  to  amend  the  blindness,  cruelty,  sensuality,  and  pettiness  of 
men  in  all  generations.  The  larger  knowledge  of  the  world's  woes  made 
possible  by  modern  systems  of  communication  has  not  lessened  the  bur- 
den, and  to  finer  natures  the  continued  tolerance  of  remediable  disaster 
and  impoverishment  seems  almost  unforgivable.  Yet  men  by  and  large 
have  never  been  too  much  concerned  to  perfect  the  conditions  of  life 
before  they  plunge  into  the  business  of  living.  They  will  cultivate  their 
gardens,  though  the  ground  tremble  beneath  their  feet.  On  the  eve  of  the 
city's  fall  the  night  clubs  will  be  thronged. 

The  subject  of  the  present  chapter  is  the  variety  of  ways  in  which 
writers  probably  not  more  callous  than  those  who  have  made  protest  their 
main  concern  have  preserved  themselves  from  paralyzing  despairs.  Among 
those  whose  social  consciousness  is  acute  it  is  not  unfashionable  to  char- 
acterize some  of  these  attitudes  as  evasive  or,  in  current  idiom,  "escapist." 
Some  of  them  by  their  reliance  on  religious  compensation  for  the  ills  of 
life  deserve  to  be  called  unworldly.  Still  others  are  merely  absorbing  inter- 
ests such  as  have  always  attracted  a  few  men  regardless  of  what  else  may 

887 


888  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

be  going  on.  But  however  they  may  be  labeled,  these  distractions  helped 
to  secure  stability  in  an  age  peculiarly  susceptible  to  jitters,  and  in  that 
respect  they  served  a  social  function  by  no  means  unimportant. 


The  first  group  to  be  considered  may  be  called  the  romantic  hedonists. 
Their  dislike  of  the  world  as  they  found  it,  or  their  failure  to  make  terms 
with  it,  led  them  to  seek  for  consolations  in  projections  of  the  imagination. 
From  the  vantage  point  of  make-believe  they  not  infrequently  bombarded 
the  unsatisfactory  workaday  world  with  criticism  and  satire.  A  consider- 
able portion  of  their  energy,  however,  was  expended  in  sheer  fine  writing. 

The  most  permanently  interesting  writer  of  this  group  was  F.  Scott 
Fitzgerald  (1896- 1940),  born  in  Minnesota  and  educated  at  Princeton,  in 
whose  name  and  nature  were  incongruously  linked  the  southern  patrician 
and  the  Celtic  arriviste.  His  tendency  to  inner  division  was  further 
accelerated  by  his  being  one  of  the  generation  who  came  into  manhood 
just  as  the  pleasant  expectations  cherished  by  Americans  previous  to 
1 9 14  were  abruptly  blighted.  Like  many  of  his  contemporaries  young 
and  old  Fitzgerald  could  not  immediately  change  direction,  and  in 
his  first  novels  he  became  the  spokesman  of  desires  that  had  lost  connection 
with  reality.  No  doubt  the  frantic  extravagances  or"  the  postwar  boom 
would  have  occurred  without  his  help,  but  in  point  of  fact  he  created  the 
most  valid  symbols  of  the  spirit  of  the  hour.  In  him  the  Jazz  Age  became 
articulate. 

His  reputation  was  made  by  the  publication  of  This  Side  of  Paradise 
(1920),  which  embodied  the  wit,  the  cynicism,  the  bewilderment,  and  the 
longing  for  glamor  of  dispossessed  youth.  Possibly  some  personal  insecur- 
ity on  the  author's  part  helped  to  accentuate  this  compensatory  dream  of 
endless  revelry  and  glitter,  this  hollow  ritual  of  delights  partaken  without 
emotion  by  suave  young  men  and  lacquered  maidens.  The  book  was  a 
bubble  whose  surface  shimmer  only  briefly  concealed  its  utter  emptiness. 
In  the  same  vein  were  the  short  stories  that  followed  in  Flappers  and 
Philosophers  (1920)  and  Tales  of  the  Jazz  Age  (1922).  Fitzgerald  was 
exploiting  his  success.  But  the  title  of  his  second  novel,  The  Beautiful  and 
Damned  (1922)  indicated  that  he  was  not  himself  under  any  illusions. 

The  second  phase  of  his  work  reveals  the  breakdown  of  his  effort  to 
maintain  an  appearance  of  well-being,  and  here  too  Fitzgerald's  personal 
crack-up  is  curiously  parallel  to  the  crash  of  the  great  depression.  After 
a  satirical  play  called  The  Vegetable  (1923)  he  created  in  'The  Great 
Gatsby  (1925)  his  finest  picture  of  the  insane  extravaganza  of  the  Prohibi- 
tion era,  coupled  now  with  premonitions  of  inevitable  collapse  and  disen- 
chantment. The  seeds  of  dissolution  are  visibly  sprouting  in  the  stories  of 
All  the  Sad  Young  Men  (1926)  and  the  bitter  crop  is  harvested  in  Tender 
is  the  Night  (1934),  his  last  completed  novel,  and  Taps  at  Reveille  (1935), 


LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT  889 

his  last  collection  of  short  stories.  An  incomplete  novel,  The  Last  Tycoon 
(1941),  would  have  sketched  the  last  stronghold  of  American  make- 
believe— Hollywood.  There  was  no  other  place  for  a  rootless  author  to  go. 

In  his  brief  career  Fitzgerald  tested  in  imaginative  terms  the  occupations 
of  gilded  youth,  of  the  impressively  rich,  of  the  socially  elite,  and  found 
them  sterile.  "It  is  difficult  to  ignore,"  writes  Maxwell  Geismar,  "Fitz- 
gerald's final  stress  on  poverty  as  against  wealth,  on  character  as  against 
charm,  on  energy  and  work  as  against  grace  and  ease,  and  even  on  the  alien 
toilers  as  against  our  native  Princetonians."  1  He  had  done  his  best  to  find 
security  and  satisfaction  in  the  dream-world  of  riches  and  exclusiveness. 
With  entire  honesty  he  was  proclaiming  the  failure  of  his  attempt  when 
his  career  closed. 

By  all  odds  the  most  persistent  unreconstructed  romanticist  in  contem- 
porary letters  is  James  Branch  Cabell  (1879-  )•>  a  Virginian  who 
supplied  American  readers  for  more  than  a  decade  after  the  war  with 
flights  of  fancy  somewhat  resembling  those  that  Maurice  Hewlett  con- 
trived for  a  previous  generation  of  English  readers.  In  several  critical 
statements,  of  which  Beyond  Life  (19 19)  and  Straws  and  Prayer-Books 
(1924)  are  representative,  he  has  promulgated  an  unorthodox  theory  of 
fiction  as  dream-allegory  which,  unlike  tales  hampered  by  allegiance  to 
fact  and  circumstance,  may  interpret  the  inner  meaning  of  life  and  present 
its  values  in  due  proportion.  This  idea  Cabell  has  illustrated  in  a  series  of 
romances  set  in  the  mythical  medieval  realm  of  Poictesme  and  featuring 
in  Dom  Manuel  a  highly  sophisticated  hero,  whose  pursuit  of  unattainable 
ideals  has  left  him  a  baffled  and  cynical  rebel.  Of  the  fifteen  or  more  books 
in  the  Poictesme  cycle  Jurgen  (19 19)  attained  special  notoriety  because 
of  the  attempts  to  suppress  it  on  charges  of  obscenity.  Actually  it  is  no 
more  aphrodisiac  than  pink  lemonade,  which  it  somewhat  resembles  in  the 
mellifluous  sweetness  of  its  mannered  style.  Cabell  exhibits  less  than  a 
genuine  novelist's  concern  for  the  creation  of  character.  Under  cover  of 
his  fiction  he  is  busy  poking  fun  at  the  foibles  of  the  contemporary  world. 
It  is  a  comment  on  the  decade  of  the  twenties  that  his  urbane  but  affected 
prose  appealed  to  otherwise  hard-headed  critics.  Its  allure  has  not  survived 
the  battering  of  the  years  that  followed. 

Among  Cabell's  critical  works  is  a  volume  on  Joseph  Hergesheimer 
(1880-  ),  another  worshipper  of  beauty  in  exotic  forms.  This  novelist, 
who  hailed  from  Philadelphia,  began  by  writing  somewhat  atmospheric 
stories  of  the  historical  past.  The  Three  Black  fenny s  (19 17)  describes  the 
fortunes  of  a  family  connected  with  the  Pennsylvania  iron  industry.  Java 
Head  (19 19),  his  best  book,  relates  the  perturbations  occasioned  in  old 
Salem  when  a  Yankee  skipper  brings  home  a  Manchu  lady  as  his  bride. 
After  Linda  Condon  (19 19),  a  romantic  character  study,  Hergesheimer's 
books  tended  to  become  merely  decorative  and  progressively  feeble. 

1  Maxwell  Geismar,  The  hast  of  the  Provincials  (Boston,  1947),  p.  344. 


890  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Historical  romance  has  attracted  more  vigorous  spirits  than  Herges- 
heimer,  and  in  fact  has  been  one  of  the  most  popular  types  of  twentieth- 
century  fiction.  Interest  in  the  national  past  was  markedly  stimulated  as  a 
consequence  of  the  First  World  War,  but  was  not  equally  applied  to  all 
periods.  The  Revolution  and  the  Civil  War,  pioneer  life  and  the  opening 
of  the  West,  these  episodes  almost  monopolized  public  attention. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  century  the  leading  practitioner  of  historical 
fiction  was  Winston  Churchill  ( 187 1-  ),  who  established  his  reputation 
with  Richard  Carvell  (1899),  set  in  Maryland  at  the  time  of  the  Revolu- 
tion, The  Crisis  ( 1901),  a  story  of  society  and  politics  in  St.  Louis  during 
the  Civil  War,  and  The  Crossing  (1904),  dealing  with  the  pioneer  settle- 
ment of  Kentucky.  With  Coniston  (1906),  Mr.  Crewe's  Career  (1908), 
and  subsequent  novels  Churchill  turned  to  the  consideration  of  social, 
political,  and  religious  problems,  somewhat  in  the  fashion  of  Mrs. 
Humphry  Ward.  His  historical  romances  like  well-executed  mural  paint- 
ings are  heroic  and  ultra-patriotic  in  spirit.  His  early  books  at  least  are 
characterized  by  painstaking  craftsmanship. 

A  tougher  historical  realism  was  introduced  into  the  war  novels  of 
James  Boyd  (1888-  ),  an  experienced  military  man,  who  recreated  the 
background  of  the  Revolution  in  Drums  (1925)  and  of  the  Civil  War  in 
Marching  On  (1927).  The  publication  of  new  source  material  in  historical 
journals  led  the  better  historical  novelists  to  make  use  of  original  docu- 
ments, which  they  sometimes  unearthed  through  their  own  research. 
Particularly  notable  for  his  conscientious  factual  accuracy  as  well  as  for 
the  robust  vigor  of  the  episodes  he  has  evoked  is  Kenneth  Roberts  (1885- 
),  who  does  not  long  permit  us  to  forget  that  he  is  a  native  of  Maine. 
In  Arundel  (1930)  and  Rabble  in  Arms  (1933)  he  reconstructed  vivid 
accounts  of  Benedict  Arnold's  expedition  against  Quebec  and  its  fighting 
sequel.  In  Northwest  Passage  (1937)  the  subject  is  the  romantic  career  of 
Captain  Robert  Rogers  of  the  Rangers,  both  in  the  American  wilderness 
and  in  eighteenth-century  London.  In  Oliver  Wiswell  (1940)  he  has 
pictured  some  phases  of  the  Revolution  from  the  point  of  view  of  a 
colonial  Loyalist.  Other  tales  recall  the  War  of  181 2,  the  uprising  of  the 
blacks  in  Haiti,  and  the  struggle  with  the  Barbary  pirates.  Roberts'  factual- 
ism  often  leads  him  to  crowd  his  canvases  with  incident  after  incident  to 
the  undoing  of  any  unity  of  design.  He  is  not  averse  to  defending  lost 
causes  and  unpopular  persons.  But  the  defects  of  his  work  are  far  out- 
weighed by  his  unflagging  zest  as  a  storyteller. 

An  equally  sound  historical  scholar  and  a  better  artist  in  fiction  is 
Walter  D.  Edmonds  (1903-  ),  who  specializes  in  the  traditions  of 
upstate  New  York.  His  first  novel,  Rome  Haul  (1929),  later  successfully 
dramatized  as  The  Farmer  Takes  a  Wife  by  Connelly  and  Elser,  recalled 
the  great  days  of  the  Erie  Canal,  a  subject  to  which  he  has  returned  at 
intervals.  Drums  Along  the  Mohawk  (1936)  stirringly  recounts  the  out- 


LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT  891 

break  of  the  Revolution  as  it  affected  the  pioneer  farmers  west  of  Albany. 
In  the  Hands  of  the  Senecas  (1947)  has  likewise  a  Revolutionary  back- 
ground, though  treated  from  an  unusual  angle.  The  book  relates  a  series 
of  stories  of  frontier  women  captured  by  Indians  in  the  British  pay.  The 
psychological  subtlety  of  the  author's  handling  of  both  red  and  white 
characters  entitles  Edmonds  to  more  serious  attention  than  would  normally 
be  given  to  a  producer  of  historical  tales  verging  on  the  melodramatic. 

Stephen  Vincent  Benet  (1898- 1945),  though  a  poet  of  various  capaci- 
ties, may  be  grouped  with  the  historical  novelists  since  a  considerable  part 
of  his  work,  and  that  for  which  he  is  best  known,  has  been  based  on  the 
same  material.  After  several  precocious  books  of  poems  written  while  he 
was  an  undergraduate  at  Yale,  Benet  discovered  an  interest  in  the  Amer- 
ican past  in  his  Ballad  of  William  Sycamore  (1923).  Still  more  systemat- 
ically historical  was  A  Book  of  Americans  (1933),  a  group  of  more  than 
fifty  poems  about  famous  characters  which  he  wrote  with  his  wife.  Mean- 
while Benet  had  composed  his  highly  popular  historical  ballad-epic  of  the 
Civil  War,  John  Brown's  Body  (1928),  a  somewhat  breathless  compilation 
of  episodes  set  forth  in  a  variety  of  meters  and  from  the  point  of  view  of 
half  a  dozen  personalities,  but  nevertheless  a  fine  romantic  expression  of 
the  emotions  of  the  great  conflict.  At  the  time  of  his  death  Benet  was  at 
work  on  a  similar  poem  treating  the  epoch  of  the  Oregon  Trail,  but  of 
this  only  the  prelude,  Western  Star  (1945)  was  completed.  Since  Irving's 
Rip  Van  Winkle  there  has  been  no  more  successful  synthetic  American 
folk  tale  than  Benet's  The  Devil  and  Daniel  Webster  (1937),  which  has 
been  used  as  the  basis  for  an  operetta  with  music  by  Douglas  Moore  and 
has  reached  a  still  wider  audience  as  a  one-act  play  and  as  a  moving 
picture. 

The  epic  of  pioneering  on  the  Great  Plains  has  often  been  vulgarized 
in  cheap  fiction,  but  it  has  also  given  rise  to  books  of  more  than  ephemeral 
interest.  In  ascending  order  may  be  mentioned  Emerson  Hough's  The 
Covered  Wagon  (1922),  Edna  Ferber's  Cimarron  (1930),  and  Herbert 
Quick's  Vandemark's  Folly  (1922)  as  superior  to  the  conventional 
"Western."  The  classic  romance  of  the  cowpuncher,  however,  had  pre- 
viously been  invented  by  Owen  Wister  in  The  Virginia?!  (1902),  which 
remains  unexcelled  in  its  own  vein. 

What  an  informed  and  poetic  imagination  can  produce  when  the  era  of 
ranching  and  homesteading  is  studied  with  a  scholar's  devotion  may  best 
be  illustrated  by  the  works  of  Conrad  Richter  (1890-  ),  born  in  Penn- 
sylvania but  spiritually  at  home  in  New  Mexico.  The  authentic,  close- 
textured  stories  of  the  frontier  collected  in  Early  Americana  (1936)  gave 
him  at  once  a  niche  of  his  own,  which  he  proceeded  to  fill  with  Sea  of 
Grass  (1937),  a  novel  about  the  clash  of  interests  between  cattle-rancher 
and  "nester"  (which  unfortunately  included  the  story  of  a  woman  too 
closely  resembling  the  Mrs.  Forrester  of  A  Lost  Lady);  Tacey  Cromwell 


892  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

(1942),  featuring  a  supposed  "bad"  woman  in  an  Arizona  mining  town; 
and  a  pair  of  novels  dealing  with  pioneers  in  Ohio  at  the  close  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  The  Trees  (1940),  and  The  Fields  (1946).  The  Free 
Man  (1943),  set  in  Revolutionary  Pennsylvania,  showed  signs  of  lapsing 
into  a  Hollywood  costume  romance.  One  of  Richter's  latest  books,  Always 
Young  and  Fair  (1947)  is  a  psychological  study  of  a  mistimed  marriage. 
His  finest  powers  have  been  exhibited  in  the  evocation  of  the  daily  lives 
and  common  speech  of  bygone  days. 


Nearly  akin  to  novels  picturing  the  frontier  are  the  outdoor  books  and 
nature  essays,  a  kind  of  writing  that  has  flourished  in  America  ever  since 
the  earliest  settlers  recorded  their  impressions  of  the  wilderness.  After 
Thoreau  the  observations  of  literary  naturalists  such  as  John  Muir  and 
John  Burroughs  maintained  the  popularity  of  the  genre  well  into  the 
twentieth  century.  A4uir  died  in  19 14,  Burroughs  seven  years  later,  both 
producing  voluminously  till  the  end.  In  the  years  that  followed,  nature- 
writing  passed  out  of  the  hands  of  literary  men  with  a  fondness  for  the 
open  air  and  tended  to  become  the  province  of  scientists  who  happened  to 
have  a  gift  of  expression.  The  personal  narratives  of  great  technological 
achievements  such  as  Robert  E.  Peary's  The  North  Pole  (19 10)  and 
Charles  A.  Lindbergh's  We  (1927)  may  be  considered  a  variant  of  the 
type. 

Perhaps  the  last  amateur  of  outdoor  life  in  the  old  sense  was  Stewart 
Edward  White  (1873-1946),  whose  boyhood  experience  of  lumber  camps 
in  Michigan  and  ranches  in  California  determined  his  direction  later  as  a 
writer.  First  and  last  his  work  falls  into  a  dozen  different  categories, 
including  psychical  research,  but  his  main  interest  lay  in  portraying  the 
excitements  of  rugged  physical  activity  and  the  charm  of  great  silent 
places.  Beginning  with  a  frontier  romance,  The  Claim  Jumpers  (1901), 
White  produced  over  a  score  of  novels,  of  which  The  Blazed  Trail  (1902), 
Arizona  Nights  (1907),  and  the  trilogy  collected  as  The  Story  of  Cali- 
fornia (1927)  may  be  cited  as  representative.  But  even  more  memorable 
than  his  novels  are  the  records  of  White's  personal  response  to  camp  and 
trail  as  set  down  in  books  of  essays,  such  as  The  Forest  ( 1903)  and  several 
kindred  volumes.  His  impressions  constitute  what  may  well  prove  to  be 
the  last  words  in  a  special  chapter  of  American  literature,  the  adventures 
of  a  soul  among  the  masterworks  of  nature. 

With  William  Beebe  (1877-  )  the  trained  scientist  takes  possession 
of  the  nature  book.  His  popular  writing  has  been  produced  in  the  intervals 
of  more  exact  and  exhaustive  professional  work.  As  a  director  of  tropical 
research  for  the  New  York  Zoological  Society  he  has  visited  at  various 
times  Mexico,  Borneo,  Brazil,  British  Guiana,  the  Galopagos  Islands,  and 
other  exotic  places.  He  has  descended  half  a  mile  or  more  below  the  sea 


LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT  893 

in  the  "bathisphere"  of  his  own  invention  to  observe  marine  life  in  the 
ocean  depths.  The  primary  records  of  his  researches  are  compiled  in  a 
long  list  of  technical  papers  and  monographs,  of  which  the  most  monu- 
mental is  his  standard  four-volume  treatise  on  pheasants.  His  informal 
books,  which  have  succeeded  in  popularizing  scientific  research  for  un- 
trained readers,  are  less  concerned  with  the  reactions  of  the  observer  than 
with  the  strangeness  of  the  things  observed  and  the  fascination  of  the  quest 
for  new  knowledge.  Jungle  Peace  (191 8),  the  collection  of  essays  which 
first  won  the  attention  of  a  wide  public,  has  been  followed  by  a  long  series 
of  similar  volumes,  of  which  Beneath  Tropic  Seas  (1928)  stands  out  for 
vividness  of  impression  and  novelty  of  subject. 

Donald  Culross  Peattie  (1898-  ),  an  expert  in  botany  who  served 
for  a  time  with  the  Department  of  Agriculture,  may  be  mentioned  as  a 
second  qualified  scientist  who  has  achieved  a  position  in  literature.  As  a 
historian  of  naturalists  he  has  written  a  spirited  biography  of  Audubon, 
Singing  in  the  Wilderness  (1935),  and  more  soberly  a  book  on  a  galaxy 
of  great  nature  students,  Green  Laurels  (1936).  The  best  of  his  own  out- 
door writing,  which  combines  scientific  exactness  with  sensitive  reactions 
to  the  world  of  living  things,  is  comprised  in  Almanac  for  Moderns  (1935) 
and  its  "pendant,"  A  Book  of  Hours  (1937),  to  which  may  be  added  A 
Prairie  Grove  (1938)  and  Flowering  Earth  (1939).  Peattie  has  also  written 
several  pieces  of  fiction  and  an  autobiography  called  The  Road  of  a  Nat- 
uralist (1941).  During  the  early  years  of  World  War  II  he  produced  in 
Forward  the  Nation  (1942)  a  lyric  retelling  of  the  Lewis  and  Clark 
expedition,  and  in  Journey  into  America  (1943)  a  reaffirmation  of  patriotic 
faith. 


Explorers  of  the  interior  world  of  private  emotions  have  not  been  lack- 
ing, and  in  this  field  women  have  been  pre-eminent.  In  finding  external 
symbols  for  the  most  delicate  feelings  they  have  in  effect  created  a  sort  of 
lyric  armor  for  the  soul.  Shielded  by  their  art,  they  have  been  able  to 
preserve  a  keenness  of  response  which  would  quickly  have  been  dulled  by 
attrition  with  the  world  of  affairs,  and  which  was  in  fact  lost  immediately 
by  one  member  of  the  lyric  sisterhood  who  insisted  somewhat  recklessly 
on  facing  social  and  political  questions  while  still  wearing  her  heart  on  her 
sleeve. 

Though  Sara  Teasdale  (1884-1933)  reached  her  mastery  of  effortless, 
singing  verse  only  after  she  had  issued  two  early  volumes  conventional  in 
mood  and  self-conscious  in  the  contrivance  of  effects,  she  attained  with 
Rivers  to  the  Sea  (1915),  Flame  and  Shadow  (1920),  Dark  of  the  Moon 
(1926),  and  the  posthumous  Strange  Victory  (1933)  an  almost  uncanny 
power  of  suggestion.  Her  images  are  natural,  her  rhythms  unhackneyed 
and  subtle.  To  all  appearances  she  merely  taps  a  little  silver  bell,  but  its 


894  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

reverberations  awaken  endless  tumults  in  the  soul.  It  was  historically  her 
fate  to  be  most  admired  for  poems  somewhat  obvious  in  point  and  balance. 
The  pure  distinction  of  her  latest  work  is  still  awaiting  a  due  measure  of 
recognition. 

Her  supremacy  as  a  writer  of  lyrics  was  challenged  by  the  appearance 
of  Nets  to  Catch  the  Wind  (1921),  the  first  "real"  book  by  Elinor  Wylie 
(1885- 192 8),  in  whom  the  "metaphysical"  grace  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury seemed  to  be  reincarnated  in  modern  guise.  Using  lyric  forms  of 
somewhat  larger  scope  than  the  song,  she  wrought  patterns  in  words  that 
seem  comparable  to  spun  glass  or  metal  filigree.  Whatever  may  be  con- 
cealed beneath,  the  surface  of  her  verse  is  always  hard  and  brilliantly 
lacquered.  The  spirit  of  her  writing  was  often  one  of  exquisite  disdain,  as 
in  "The  Eagle  and  the  Mole,"  or  of  immaculate  reserve,  as  in  "Velvet 
Shoes."  She  is  all  crystal,  silver,  and  pearl,  a  creature  of  flashing  lights 
which  are  sometimes  brought  to  intense  focus  in  the  poems  contained  in 
her  final  volumes,  Angels  and  Earthly  Creatures  (1929)  and  Collected 
Poems  (1932).  She  was  also  the  author  of  four  novels  ranging  from  artifice 
to  ironv,  of  which  The  Orphan  Angel  (1926)  is  an  odd  projection  of  the 
romantic  poet  Shelley  into  the  American  wild  west.  Elinor  Wvlie's  prose 
and  verse  were  edited  by  her  husband,  William  Rose  Benet,  himself  a  poet 
of  fine  achievement. 

A  third  feminine  lyrist,  though  younger  than  the  others,  was  earlier  in 
gaining  recognition  and  threatened  for  a  time  to  monopolize  the  honors. 
Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay  (1892-1950),  a  native  of  Maine,  attracted  an 
enthusiastic  following  as  soon  as  her  poem  "Renascence"  appeared  in  the 
anthology  called  The  Lyric  Year  ( 191 2).  Joined  five  years  later  with  other 
poems  in  the  same  mood  of  rapturous  intensity,  it  formed  the  title  poem 
of  one  of  the  most  striking  first  volumes  of  verse  of  the  twentieth  century. 
But  its  effect  of  mystical  exaltation  was  very  soon  offset  by  the  tone  of 
A  Few  Figs  from  Thistles  (1920),  in  which  Miss  Millay  defeated  all 
notion  of  taking  herself  seriously  by  assuming  a  jaunty  gamine  pose  more 
suggestive  of  Montparnasse  than  of  Parnassus.  Though  in  successive 
volumes  from  Second  April  (1921)  to  Wine  from  These  Grapes  (1934) 
Miss  Millay  returned  to  a  mood  of  velvety  intensity,  she  seemed  to  be 
unable  to  mature  as  a  poet  as  her  thought  grew  wider  in  scope.  Only  in  an 
occasional  sonnet  was  she  able  to  attain  genuine  magnificence.  More  and 
more  an  empty  rhetorical  echo  of  the  grand  style  took  the  place  of  artistic 
tension,  as  in  the  sonnets  of  Fatal  Interview  (193 1)  which  lacked  only 
ripeness  to  be  great.  When  in  Conversation  at  Midnight  (1937)  she  under- 
took to  write  a  poetic  dialogue  discussing  various  philosophical  and  social 
problems  of  the  day,  she  sank  to  a  failure  as  nearly  absolute  as  a  competent 
poet  could  well  achieve.  There  Are  No  Islands  Any  More  (1940),  in- 
spired by  deep  concern  at  the  menace  of  the  Second  World  War,  was 
the  prelude  to  silence.  Miss  Millay  at  various  times  wrote  plays,  of  which 


LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT  895 

the  one-act  Aria  da  Capo  (19 19)  is  the  most  actable,  and  she  composed 
in  1927  the  libretto  of  an  opera,  The  King's  Henchman,  for  which  Deems 
Taylor  supplied  the  music. 

If  the  literary  careers  of  Miss  Teasdale  and  Mrs.  Wylie  were  tragically 
cut  short  at  the  height  of  their  powers,  the  career  of  Edna  Millay  pre- 
sented the  still  sadder  spectacle  of  a  poet  who  withered  on  the  stalk  before 
attaining  fruition. 


As  was  inevitable,  an  increasing  sense  of  uncertainty  and  confusion  led 
some  men  to  despair  of  further  progress  in  the  direction  of  democratic 
liberalism  and  to  seek  assurance  in  the  revival  of  time-tested  systems  of 
authority.  These  efforts  to  re-establish  order  generally  rested  upon  either 
ethical  or  religious  sanctions.  The  former  were  invoked  by  the  group  who 
called  themselves  the  New  Humanists,  but  who  unlike  the  Humanists  of 
the  sixteenth  century  were  not  braced  to  resist  the  intrusions  of  super- 
naturalism  into  human  affairs.  Rather  they  set  themselves  to  counteract  the 
tendency  of  natural  science  to  assimilate  man  with  nature.  Their  funda- 
mental tenet  was  a  sharp  insistence  on  the  needful  distinction  between 
"law  for  man"  and  "law  for  thing." 

To  Irving  Babbitt  ( 1 865-1933),  for  twenty  years  professor  of  French 
literature  at  Harvard,  it  seemed  that  most  of  the  loose  thinking  of  our 
time  was  traceable  to  romantic  and  humanitarian  doctrines  derived  from 
Rousseau  and  to  utilitarian  ideas  stemming  from  Bacon.  Against  these 
twin  perversions  he  sturdily  protested  in  a  series  of  manifestoes  beginning 
with  Literature  and  the  American  College  (1908),  subtitled  "essays  in 
defense  of  the  humanities,"  and  including  his  two  most  notable  books, 
The  New  Laokoon  (1910),  an  essay  on  the  confusion  of  the  arts,  and 
Rousseau  and  Romanticism  (19 19).  Babbitt  was  a  veritable  warhorse  of 
controversy,  a  Johnsonian  personality  who  dominated  where  he  could  not 
convince.  From  his  classroom  the  cadets  of  the  Humanist  cult  went  forth 
to  academic  positions  which  they  held  like  blockhouses  in  the  wilderness 
against  the  barbarian  hordes  of  modernists.  Their  slogan  was  the  will  to 
refrain,  the  "inner  check."  Just  what  they  were  all  refraining  from  so 
portentously  never  clearly  appeared. 

Babbitt's  program  in  fact  suffered  from  its  negative  stress.  Many  who 
could  join  him  in  the  effort  to  revive  classical  standards  of  taste  were  dis- 
satisfied by  his  refusal  to  entertain  any  more  ample  religious  views  than 
were  possible  to  an  attenuated  Unitarianism  slightly  padded  with  the 
mystical  wisdom  of  the  Orient.  As  a  literary  critic  likewise  Babbitt 
showed  a  distressing  literalness  and  an  almost  complete  inability  to  rec- 
ognize esthetic  values.  In  last  analysis  he  appears  a  valiant  but  heavy- 
handed  critic  of  ideas. 

A  finer  critical  intelligence  was  that  of  Paul  Elmer  More  (1864-1937), 


896  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

who  shared  with  Babbitt  the  leadership  of  the  Humanist  phalanx.  A  sound 
classical  scholar  and  a  student  of  Sanskrit,  he  early  left  his  position  as  a 
teacher  at  Bryn  Mawr  to  pursue  a  career  as  literary  editor  of  the  Nation 
(not  yet  a  radical  organ)  and  later  as  a  free-lance  thinker  and  writer. 
iMore's  Toryism  was  instinctive  and  uncompromising;  he  was  resolutely 
antinaturalistic,  antidemocratic,  antihumanitarian,  and  antiradical.  In  The 
Drift  of  Romanticism  (191 3)  and  Aristocracy  and  Justice  (191 5)  his 
eagerness  to  battle  for  standards  was  not  less  vehement  than  Babbitt's.  In 
their  zeal  for  purity  of  doctrine  the  two  leaders  were  not  seldom  on  the 
point  of  excommunicating  each  other.  But  More  found  tranquillity  in  his 
intractability.  A  considerable  portion  of  his  Shelburne  Essays  ( 1 1  Vols., 
1904-21;  new  series,  3  Vols.,  1928-36)  deals  with  literature  outside  the 
field  of  immediate  controversy,  and  when  More  wrote  as  a  mediatory 
critic  he  was  able  to  write  with  sympathy,  elevation,  and  even  grace.  To  a 
measurable  extent  he  accomplished  what  he  set  out  to  do  when  in  1904  he 
asserted,  "Before  we  can  have  an  American  literature,  we  must  have  an 
American  criticism."  At  least  the  criticism  is  there,  and  if  literature  has 
persisted  in  paying  small  attention  to  it  the  fault  is  not  More's.  His  later 
years  were  devoted  to  the  composition  of  the  five  volumes  known  collec- 
tively as  The  Greek  Tradition  ( 192 1-3 1)  wherein  he  labored  to  reconcile 
the  philosophy  of  Plato  with  the  spirit  of  primitive  Christianity. 

The  New  Humanists  were  unable  to  establish  any  vital  relation  with 
the  contemporary  world.  After  the  ablest  of  the  younger  critics,  Stuart  P. 
Sherman,  renounced  his  allegiance  to  timeless  values  in  order  to  engage  in 
literary  journalism,  the  movement  fell  into  the  hands  of  less  vigorous 
academic  curators.  It  enjoyed  a  brief  moment  of  effulgence  about  1930, 
then  faded  for  lack  of  sustained  public  interest.  The  basic  defect  of  all 
attempts  to  construct  a  yardstick  from  the  classics  has  been  well  stated  by 
T.  S.  Eliot,  a  critic  not  unfriendly  to  Humanism  in  the  traditional  sense. 

There  is,  it  seems  to  us, 
At  best,  only  a  limited  value 
In  the  knowledge  derived  from  experience. 
The  knowledge  imposes  a  pattern,  and  falsifies, 
For  the  pattern  is  new  every  moment 
And  every  moment  is  a  new  and  shocking 
Valuation  of  all  we  have  been.2 


For  something  over  twenty  years  after  the  publication  of  The  Waste 
La?id  the  main  objective  of  Eliot's  poetry  has  been  the  restatement  of  the 
nature  of  religious  experience.  He  has  used  two  vehicles  for  that  purpose: 
the  poetic  or  poetized  drama  with  choruses,  and  the  ode-like  symphonic 
poem  composed  after  the  manner  of  chamber  music  of  successive  move- 

2  From,  Four  Quartets  (Harcourt,  Brace  and  Company,  Inc.,  1943),  p.  13. 


LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT  897 

merits  which  develop  the  themes  less  by  direct  statement  than  by  the 
implications  of  imagery  and  rhythmic  pattern.  In  the  perfecting  of  this 
second  form  Eliot  has  established  his  pre-eminence  as  a  creator  of  highly 
intellectualized  poetry,  a  field  in  which  he  has  had  few  competitors. 

A  first  group  of  poems,  consisting  of  four  short  pieces  and  Ash-Wednes- 
day (1930),  deals  primarily  with  the  difficulty  and  cost  of  attaining  the 
religious  life  and  with  its  paradoxical  nature.  Journey  of  the  Magi  stresses 
the  Christian  identification  of  birth  and  death,  birth  into  spiritual  life 
involving  death  to  the  ordinary  concerns  of  the  world.  A  Song  for  Simeon 
expresses  the  almost  intolerable  burden  imposed  by  the  prospect  of  salva- 
tion, and  Animula  the  perplexities  of  the  soul  projected  into  an  existence 
from  which  it  shrinks.  Ash-Wednesday,  a  sequence  of  six  poems,  is 
centered  as  its  title  suggests  on  the  penitential  side  of  the  spiritual  life, 
which  it  presents  in  terms  of  imagery  reminiscent  of  Dante.  A  narrative 
framework,  very  lightly  sketched,  is  implicit  in  the  poem.  At  the  begin- 
ning is  a  hint?  of  renunciation,  a  turning  away  from  a  "blessed  face"  and 
voice  as  Dante  turned  from  Beatrice  on  earth  to  Beatrice  in  glory.  A  vision 
of  spiritual  renewal  is  followed  by  the  ascent  of  a  symbolic  stairway,  with 
a  brief  backward  glimpse  at  loveliness  denied.  Finally  there  is  a  scene 
which  corresponds  to  the  attainment  of  the  Earthly  Paradise,  where  a 
"silent  sister  veiled"  presides  over  the  poet's  new  aspirations.  It  is  hinted 
in  the  imagery  of  "unbroken  wings"  and  the  quickening  assurance  of  the 
rhythm  that  the  spirit  has  found  compensation  for  what  it  has  renounced. 
In  Marina,  which  may  be  thought  of  as  a  sort  of  coda  to  Ash-Wednesday, 
there  is  a  still  stronger  affirmation  of  "the  hope,  the  new  ships"  that  await 
the  voyaging  soul.  These  poems  will  mean  most  to  those  readers  whose 
spiritual  experience  is  comparable  to  Eliot's;  others  will  no  doubt  think 
of  them  as  obscured,  as  one  commentator  has  said,  by  "metaphysical 
murkiness." 

Much  the  same  may  be  said  of  Eliot's  religious  dramas.  The  Rock 
(1934)  is  a  pageant  play,  in  prose  and  verse,  showing  first  a  series  of  scenes 
illustrative  of  the  growth  of  Christianity  and  second  a  procession  of 
various  groups  typical  of  modern  society  who  affirm  their  relationship  to 
the  church.  The  poetic  choruses  stand  above  the  level  of  a  somewhat 
verbose  play.  Murder  in  the  Cathedral  (1935)  presents  episodes  dealing 
with  the  last  few  weeks  in  the  life  of  Thomas  a  Becket  and  ending  with  his 
assassination.  The  action  is  considerably  overlaid  by  philosophic  discus- 
sion, and  the  main  scenes  are  separated  by  thematic  choruses  spoken  by 
the  women  of  Canterbury.  The  play  proves  the  brilliant  resourcefulness 
of  Eliot's  imagination,  but  as  a  piece  for  the  theater  it  remains  something 
of  a  tour  de  force.  The  Family  Reunion  (1939),  a  modern  story  on  the 
theme  of  redemption  with  overtones  of  Greek  tragedy,  is  completely 
lost  in  philosophical  disquisition  and  will  appear  dramatic  only  to  those 
who  find  ideas  in  themselves  exciting.  In  these  successive  plays  Eliot  has 


898  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

struggled  to  express  elements  of  his  religious  thought  which  reappear 
much  clarified  in  his  later  poems.3 

His  triumph  came  in  1943  when  the  publication  of  Four  Quartets  as  a 
single  poem  revealed  the  full  scope  of  his  achievement.4  The  technical 
devices,  rough  hewn  in  The  Waste  Land,  are  now  perfected  and  put  to 
subtle  use;  the  ideas,  dispersed  and  obscure  in  previous  poems  and  plays, 
are  here  concentrated  to  make  a  symphony  of  lofty  power  and  sure  intent. 

The  poem  consists  of  four  main  parts,  each  of  which  is  in  turn  sub- 
divided into  five  movements.  The  sequence  of  movements  is  approxi- 
mately similar  in  all  four  parts.  First,  in  free  blank  verse,  is  given  a  state- 
ment followed  by  a  counter-statement  equally  true,  like  the  opposing 
octet  and  sestet  of  a  sonnet.  The  second  movement  also  contains  a  con- 
trast, but  a  contrast  more  of  tone  than  of  thought;  it  opens  with  a  formally 
lyrical  passage,  after  which  comes  a  colloquial  application  of  the  ideas 
previously  given  in  metaphor  and  symbol.  After  the  lyric,  blank  verse  is 
again  employed,  except  that  in  Little  Gidding  (Part  IV)  the  medium  is  a 
kind  of  unrhymed  terza  rlma  supporting  the  Dantesque  imagery  of  this 
section  of  the  poem.  The  third  section  reconsiders  the  conflicting  ideas 
already  stated,  but  with  a  change  of  tone  or  emphasis  out  of  which  rises 
the  reconciliation  that  forms  the  core  of  the  poem.  The  fourth  movement 
is  a  brief  lyrical  interlude.  The  fifth  and  last  movement  resembles  the 
second  reversed,  a  colloquial  passage  gradually  heightened  to  a  lyrical  and 
intense  recapitulation.  These  elements  of  structure  are  never  mechanically 
applied  or  allowed  to  become  intrusive,  but  they  indicate  that  underneath 
Eliot's  apparently  spontaneous  verse  lies  a  pattern  as  strict  as  that  of  a 
musical  composition. 

The  theme  of  the  Four  Quartets,  developed  insistently  through  the 
four  parts  by  a  method  of  reversals  and  contrasts,  is  the  redemption  of 
time  by  the  perception  of  timeless  values,  or  it  might  be  called  history 
viewed  and  tested  in  the  light  of  eternity.  Burnt  Norton  is  an  explora- 
tory poem,  tremulous  and  suggestive  in  its  uncertain  apprehensions, 
preparing  the  ground  for  the  more  ample  affirmations  that  are  to  follow. 
East  Coker  is  a  consideration  of  holiness  won  by  denial,  the  negative 
way  of  the  mystics.  The  Dry  Salvages  centers  in  the  fact  of  the  An- 
nunciation, the  heightening  of  man's  experience  by  identification  with 
the  divine  and  the  eternal  which  alone,  to  the  religious  mind,  gives  life  a 

3  His  most  recent  play,  The  Cocktail  Party  (1950),  confirms  the  impression  of 
Eliot's  versatility,  and  of  his  power  to  write  theatrically  effective  dialogue.  This 
drama  of  a  broken  and  insecurelv  patched  up  marriage,  which  by  extension  symbolizes 
the  sickness  of  modern  society,  alternates  between  scenes  of  mordant  comedy  and 
mystical  vision.  No  doubt  when  the  text  is  published  it  will  be  possible  to  puzzle 
out  the  bearings  of  the  latter.  A  first  impression  of  the  play  as  acted,  however, 
indicates  rhar  Eliot  is  sometimes  groping  for  meanings  on  a  level  far  above  the  reach 
of  any  but  a  special  audience. 

1  In  terms  of  separate  publication  the  four  parts  appeared  as  follows:  East  Coker 
(1940),  Burnt  Norton  (1941),  The  Dry  Salvages  (1941),  Little  Gidding  (1944). 


LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT  899 

positive  meaning.  After  this  ideal  climax  Little  Gidding  offers  an  ap- 
plication in  historical  terms,  a  moment  in  the  past  when  "prayer  has  been 
valid"  and  human  historv  may  be  regarded  as  attaining  the  supreme 
inspiration  of  the  Pentecost. 

It  should  be  added  that  the  titles  of  the  four  parts  are  derived  from 
place  names,  two  of  which  have  personal  associations  for  the  poet.  In  each 
case  also  the  landscape  or  the  nature  of  the  place  colors  the  imagery  of  the 
poem.  Burnt  Norton,  the  name  of  an  uninhabited  country  house  in  the 
Cotswolds,  lends  a  house-and-garden  atmosphere  to  the  opening  part. 
East  Coker  calls  up  spacious  suggestions  of  the  untroubled  life  of  villagers 
in  a  previous  age;  it  is  the  name  of  the  hamlet  from  which  Eliot's  lineal 
ancestor  departed  for  the  New  World  early  in  the  seventeenth  century. 
The  Dry  Salvages  are  a  group  of  rocky  islets  off  Cape  Ann,  near  Glouces- 
ter, Massachusetts,  and  were  a  familiar  sight  to  Eliot  in  his  boyhood.  Little 
Gidding  is  the  place  where  in  1625  Nicholas  Ferrar  dedicated  himself  to  a 
life  of  devotion  and  good  works  and  where  he  dreamed  of  a  religious 
community  joined  in  a  familial  and  Christian  love. 

After  all  explanations  have  been  given,  one  is  left  with  a  sense  of  their 
entire  inadequacy  to  explain  the  haunting  powTer  of  this  symphonic  poem 
or  group  of  poems.  Eliot  has  here  found  poignant  expression  for  one  of 
the  greatest  themes  that  the  mind  of  man  can  contemplate,  and  he  has 
organized  in  a  single  rich  masterpiece  the  total  sensibility  of  a  lifetime's 
spiritual  reflection.  No  poem  of  our  time  has  greater  depth  and  resonance. 
Skill  and  sureness  of  taste  can  do  no  more.  The  Four  Quartets  are  an  ulti- 
mate expression  in  modern  terms  of  the  religious  attitude  toward  human 
life,  an  attitude  that  never  needed  compelling  restatement  more  than  it 
does  now  in  the  midst  of  an  era  dominated  by  an  aggressive  materialism. 


Chapter  47 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN 


Paul  Elmer  More,  when  asked  to  comment  for  French  readers  on  con- 
temporary American  literature,  devoted  the  larger  part  of  his  space  to  a 
diatribe  against  the  authors  then  most  in  vogue,  and  in  conclusion  asserted 
that  the  true  representatives  of  American  letters  were  Irving  Babbitt  and 
four  other  gentlemen,  all  occupants  of  academic  chairs  and  all  conspicuous 
for  their  allegiance  to  the  principles  of  the  New  Humanism.  One  of  the 
men  named  was  best  known  for  his  compilation  of  a  textbook  anthology 
of  English  literature;  another  was  at  the  moment  distinguished  solely  by 
the  publication  of  a  slender  volume  of  familiar  essays.  More's  pronounce- 
ment had  about  it,  therefore,  something  of  the  heedless  gallantry  of  the 
Three  Musketeers,  as  well  as  being  fully  in  accord  with  their  rallying  cry 
of  "All  for  one,  one  for  all."  But  at  the  same  time  it  reminded  readers  of 
the  New  Shelburne  Essays  that  in  almost  any  European  country  the  work 
of  scholars  and  university  professors  would  be  received  with  a  degree  of 
respect  that  is  seldom  accorded  in  the  United  States. 

Distrust  of  anything  academic  was  not  active  when  Professor  Long- 
fellow of  Harvard  was  the  country's  most  popular  poet,  but  during  the 
twentieth  century  the  gulf  between  professors  and  professional  writers 
has  steadily  widened.  The  rift  has  had  unfortunate  consequences.  It  has 
tended,  on  the  one  hand,  to  leave  important  areas  of  the  academic  mind 
unventilated,  and  on  the  other,  to  encourage  a  glib  irresponsibility  on  the 
part  of  writers  with  a  talent  for  iconoclastic  opinions.  It  has  permitted 
among  others  Van  Wyck  Brooks  and  John  Dos  Passos  to  publish  hasty 
assumptions  about  American  culture  first,  and  only  later  to  study  the  data 
on  which  such  assumptions  could  be  based.  It  has  encouraged  both  a  sterile 
accuracy  in  scholarship  and  a  profitable  sensationalism  in  popular  writing. 

A  comparable  ambivalence  penetrates  deeply  into  American  life.  Ever 
since  Emerson  and  his  transcendental  associates  started  their  crusade  for 
the  reaffirmation  of  spiritual  values  in  the  midst  of  "Unitarian  and  com- 
mercial  times,"   Americans   have   been   uneasily   conscious   of  a   double 

900 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN  901 

allegiance.  Nominally  they  believe  in  fair  dealing,  in  the  appeal  to  reason, 
in  the  resolution  of  conflicts  bv  open  discussion,  in  government  by  con- 
sent, in  equality  of  opportunity,  and  a  host  of  other  liberal  and  humane 
principles.  In  practice  the  drives  of  a  competitive  and  acquisitive  society 
have  tended  to  nullify  these  principles  and  to  set  up  a  working  code  dom- 
inated by  self-interest  and  expediency.  American  education  generally 
accepts  the  liberal  ideas  to  which  Americans  in  adult  life  pay  only  lip 
service.  Since  there  is  an  element  of  incorruptibility  in  the  universities 
which  insists  on  respecting  facts,  on  considering  the  long-term  effects  of 
action,  and  on  emphasizing  public  welfare  rather  than  private  profit, 
short-sighted  and  impatient  businessmen  are  apt  to  picture  the  "long- 
haired professor"  as  a  kind  of  impractical  crank.  In  return  the  experienced 
dean  of  a  leading  eastern  university  can  report  that  the  way  of  life  of  a 
college  community  compares  not  unfavorably  with  American  life  else- 
where. 

Human  nature  under  campus  conditions  seems  capable  of  more  generous 
responses  than  are  generally  evoked  by  our  modern  civilization.  On  some 
respects,  therefore,  I  feel  that  the  college  student  has  been  maligned.  His 
critics  urge  that  conditions  on  the  campus  should  be  made  to  conform  more 
nearly  to  conditions  in  the  world  outside,  that  he  should  be  'educated  for  life,' 
by  which  they  mean  usually  for  business  life.  Instead  of  attempting  to  force 
the  college  more  narrowly  into  line  with  our  social  and  economic  system,  I 
am  compelled  to  wonder  whether  it  would  not  be  wiser,  for  a  little  while  to 
have  such  reformers  direct  their  attention  to  a  study  of  our  somewhat  hugger 
mugger  world  outside  with  a  view  to  bringing  it  a  little  more  closely  into 
accord  with  some  of  those  finer  aspects  of  human  nature  so  frequently 
illustrated  in  the  conduct  of  the  average  undergraduate.1 

A  disproportionate  amount  of  attention  on  the  part  of  contemporary 
writers,  or  so  it  may  seem  to  thoughtful  readers,  has  been  paid  to  the 
"hugger  mugger  world."  It  is  important,  of  course,  that  the  ugly  features 
of  industrial  life  should  be  brought  home  to  the  conscience  of  the  nation, 
but  it  is  not  less  important  that  positive  and  humane  ideals  should  be  pre- 
sented to  the  imagination.  No  country  is  likely  to  attain  civilization  by 
incessant  deploring  of  its  shortcomings.  It  should  never  be  supposed  that 
people  will  merely  gravitate  into  a  high  state  of  cultivation.  They  have  to 
desire  it  greatly  and  to  achieve  it  by  an  almost  miraculous  effort.  In 
sustaining  the  precarious  fabric  of  a  national  culture  American  scholars 
have  played  a  not  inconsiderable  part.  Their  work  has  been  aided  by  the 
small  group  of  writers  who,  by  keeping  in  view  the  possibilities  of  human 
fulfillment  even  in  murky  times,  have  strengthened  in  their  readers  the 
desire  to  realize  a  larger  humanity. 

A  fine  example  of  academic  man  of  letters,  at  once  professor,  critic, 
literary  historian,  and  poet,  is  afforded  by  George  Edward  Woodberry 

1  Christian  Gauss,  Life  in  College  (Charles  Scribner's  Sons,  1930),  pp.  xiv,  xv. 


9o2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

whose  life  and  works  have  been  presented  from  another  angle  in  Chapter 
36.  He  brought  to  his  classroom  genial  echoes  of  the  /Mediterranean  and  a 
devotion  to  beauty  which  he  expressed  also  in  his  rare  poetry  and  occa- 
sional volumes  of  critical  papers.  The  Torch  (1905),  a  series  of  lectures, 
and  The  Appreciation  of  Literature  (1907)  contain  his  maturest  comment 
on  the  art  of  letters.  As  a  poet  he  is  represented  by  The  North  Shore 
Watch  (1890),  Ideal  Passion  (19 17),  a  philosophical  sonnet  sequence,  and 
The  Roamer  (1920),  which  embodies  in  narrative  verse  his  ultimate  creed 
and  something  of  his  personal  history. 

His  colleague  Brander  Matthews  (1852-1929),  himself  a  writer  of  clever 
short  stories  and  essays,  applied  to  the  theatre  the  good  taste  of  a  polished 
man  of  the  world  and  to  American  literature  in  general  an  appreciation 
of  native  and  novel  elements  that  lay  somewhat  outside  of  Woodberry's 
ken.  With  more  substantial  scholarship  Felix  E.  Schelling  (1858- 1945)  of 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania  produced  in  Elizabethan  Drama  (1908)  a 
model  history  of  a  literary  genre.  George  Lyman  Kittredge  (1 860-1 941) 
of  Harvard,  mighty  teacher,  master  of  linguistics,  and  editor  of  Shakes- 
peare, led  more  than  a  generation  of  scholars  to  become  sedulous  guardians 
of  old  texts,  while  at  the  same  university  Bliss  Perry  (i860-  ),  a  former 
editor  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly,  devoted  a  finely  tempered  understanding 
to  studies  of  Whitman,  Whittier,  and  Emerson,  and  to  an  appraisal  of  the 
national  character  in  The  American  Mind  (191 2).  William  Lyon  Phelps 
(1865- 1 943)  at  Yale  enjoyed  a  huge  reputation  as  a  popularizer  of  the 
humanities.  These  are  but  random  examples  of  the  many  scholars  in  uni- 
versities and  colleges  whose  influence  kept  alive  a  concern  for  things  of 
the  mind  and  spirit. 

Among  younger  scholars  of  the  period  should  be  mentioned  Joel  Elias 
Spingarn  (187 5- 1939),  whose  lecture  "The  New  Criticism"  (19 10)  was  a 
precursor  of  the  long  series  of  reappraisals  of  esthetic  principles  which  is 
still  continuing;  Stuart  P.  Sherman  (1881-1926),  who  brought  a  boyish 
zest  first  to  the  support  of  the  New  Humanists  and  later  to  an  apprecia- 
tion of  the  more  vigorous  among  modernist  writers;  and  Vernon  L. 
Parrington  (1 871-1929),  whose  Main  Currents  in  American  Thought 
(1927,  1930)  remains  a  monumental  reaffirmation  of  the  liberal  political 
and  social  ideas  expressed  in  the  national  letters.  Poets  in  academic  life 
include  notably  William  Ellery  Leonard  (1876- 1944),  translator  of  Lucre- 
tius and  Beowulf  and  author  of  numerous  volumes  of  original  poems 
which  reached  a  climax  of  tragic  intensity  in  the  autobiographical  sonnet 
sequence  Two  Lives  (1922);  and  Mark  Van  Doren  (1894-  ),  whose 
Collected  Poems  (1939)  was  awarded  a  Pulitzer  Prize. 

Not  all  scholarly  writers  have  held  academic  appointments.  Gamaliel 
Bradford  (1863-1932)  in  spite  of  physical  disability  found  an  absorbing 
career  in  the  writing  of  "psychography,"  by  which  he  meant  subjective 
and  analytical  biographical  sketches  which  tried  to  define  in  brief  compass 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN  903 

the  salient  features  of  the  subject's  personality.  A  good  example  of  his 
method  is  Damaged  Souls  (1923),  his  best-known  collection.  He  has 
written  two  autobiographical  books  and  his  Journal  (1933),  was  edited  by 
Van  Wyck  Brooks.  Another  notable  independent  scholar  was  Constance 
May-field  Rourke  (1885-1941),  a  graduate  of  Vassar  who  early  became 
interested  in  the  freaks  and  vagaries  of  the  American  tradition.  Her  most 
notable  and  best  integrated  book  is  American  Humor  (1931),  which 
remains  a  classic  in  its  field. 


By  his  long  academic  service  at  Amherst  College,  with  briefer  intervals 
at  the  University  of  /Michigan,  Harvard,  and  Dartmouth,  and  by  his  gen- 
erally conservative  outlook,  Robert  Frost  (1874-  )  may  be  loosely 
associated  with  the  scholarly  group.  Though  he  has  been  a  loyal  friend  of 
many  professors  in  scientific  and  social  as  well  as  literary  departments,  his 
interest  in  education,  to  use  his  own  comparison,  has  been  like^he  fearful 
fascination  felt  by  monkeys  for  a  basket  with  a  snake  in  it.  He  has  made 
free  with  colleges,  loving  the  intercourse  with  young  minds,  but  distrust- 
ful of  all  forms  of  institutionalism.  He  has  had  nothing  whatever  to  do 
with  the  aspect  of  education  pilloried  in  Henry  Adams'  phrase  as  "the 
amount  of  ignorance  it  accumulates  in  the  form  of  inert  facts."  2  With 
him  wisdom  has  spanned  the  American  continent  and  penetrated  under- 
standing^ into  many  phases  of  modern  life. 

Born  in  San  Francisco  of  New  England  stock  and  named  Robert  Lee 
because  of  his  father's  "copperhead"  sympathies,  Frost  left  California 
about  the  age  of  ten.  In  due  course  he  graduated  from  the  Lawrence, 
Massachusetts,  high  school  and  spent  a  few  months  at  Dartmouth.  He 
then  tried  a  number  of  occupations  in  rapid  succession,  including  school- 
teaching,  work  in  a  mill,  and  newspaper  writing.  Not  long  after  his  mar- 
riage to  a  girl  who  had  been  his  classmate  in  high  school,  he  entered 
Harvard  as  a  special  student,  taking  courses  chiefly  in  the  classics  and 
philosophy.  At  the  urging  of  his  grandfather  he  elected  to  become  a 
farmer  and  established  himself  in  Derry,  New  Hampshire,  supplementing 
his  income  after  a  time  by  teaching  in  the  local  academy.  In  191 2  he  sold 
the  farm  and  took  his  family  to  England  on  the  proceeds.  There  quite 
casually  he  placed  his  first  book  with  a  London  publisher. 

The  two  facts  that  must  immediately  strike  a  reader  of  Frost's  poems  as 
significant  are,  first,  the  long  arc  of  personal  development  that  they  rep- 
resent, and  second,  the  constant  emphasis  on  wholeness  of  human  experi- 
ence beneath  all  superficial  changes.  He  has  not  devoted  himself  like  T.  S. 
Eliot  to  the  refining  of  a  central  and  somewhat  abstract  philosophy.  Rather 
he  has  reported  from  time  to  time  on  how  his  philosophy  was  going.  His 
convictions  represent  the  gradual  accretion  of  commitments  tested  by  a 

2  The  Education  of  Henry  Ada?ns  (Boston,  1918),  p.  397. 


9o4  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

lifetime's  experience.  They  are  still  flexible  and  could  be  changed  to- 
morrow if  he  saw  reason. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  Frost  began  to  compose  poetry  in  his 
later  teens,  and  occasionally  placed  a  few  examples  in  magazines,  though 
his  first  book  was  not  published  until  he  was  thirty-nine  years  old.  "The 
Death  of  the  Hired  Man,"  to  take  one  striking  instance,  may  be  safely 
dated  some  ten  years  before  its  appearance  in  print.  Some  early  poems  are 
scattered  through  later  volumes.  But  taking  Frost's  eight  successive  collec- 
tions as  they  stand,  it  is  possible  to  count  the  rings  of  growth  that  mark  his 
poetic  development  over  something  better  than  half  of  a  long  lifetime. 

A  Boy's  Will  (London,  191 3)  is  an  intensely  lyrical  book,  though  not 
without  overtones  of  thoughtfulness.  It  is  devoted,  as  the  "program  notes" 
printed  with  the  table  of  contents  indicate,  to  the  time  of  life  when  a 
young  man  is  engaged  in  making  decisions  about  what  will  be  his  major 
attachments  and  real  values.3  It  ends  with  the  beautifully  poignant  "Reluc- 
tance," which  announces  the  end  of  the  season  of  youthful  choice. 

In  North  of  Boston  (London,  19 14)  Frost  has  changed  focus  from  him- 
self to  others.  This  is  a  book  of  perceptions  about  people,  some  of  them 
broadly  humorous  like  "The  Code,"  some  deeply  tragic  like  "Home 
Burial"  and  "A  Servant  to  Servants,"  but  the  majority  conceived  in  that 
elusive  blend  of  whimsicality  and  tenderness  which  constitutes  the  poet's 
customary  tone.  In  this  group  of  poems  the  stiff  literary  locutions  that 
sometimes  intrude  in  his  earlier  writing  are  completely  absent.  From  this 
time  on  Frost  like  Chaucer  and  Shakespeare  (but  unlike  Spenser  and 
Milton)  was  able  to  command  at  will  the  subtle  combination  of  metrical 
writing  with  the  rhythms  of  speech.  In  that  respect  he  is  the  incomparable 
master  of  all  the  poets  of  his  time. 

Both  lyric  and  narrative-dramatic  pieces  make  up  Mountain  Interval 
(1917)  and  New  Hampshire  (1924),  the  two  collections  that  most  fully 
reflect  the  poet's  many  years  of  country  life  in  the  uplands  of  New  Eng- 
land. Perhaps  the  most  dramatic  of  his  conversational  sketches,  and  one 
that  with  slight  adaptation  has  often  been  performed  on  the  stage,  is 
"Snow"  in  the  earlier  volume,  which  also  contains  in  "An  Old  Man's 
Winter  Night"  and  "The  Hill  Wife"  some  deep  soundings  of  psycholog- 
ical states.  Meanwhile  in  "Birches"  and  still  more  insistently  in  the  title 
poem  of  New  Hampshire  and  several  of  the  half-length  poems  that  follow 
it,  may  be  seen  a  growing  pleasure  in  reflection  about  the  values  of  life 
and  in  talking  them  over.  This  sententious  note,  which  was  to  be  heard 
more  often  in  the  poet's  later  years,  does  not  replace  the  pure  lyricism  of 
"Stopping  by  Woods  on  a  Snowy  Evening"  but  accompanies  it  and  some- 
times fuses  with  it,  as  in  the  finely  original  "The  Onset." 

All  the  instruments  in  the  poet's  orchestra  are  represented  in  West- 
Running  Brook  (1928),  from  the  delicate  impersonal  lyricism  of  "Spring 

8  The  prose  commentary  appears  only  in  the  separate  editions  of  A  Boy's  Will. 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN  905 

Pools"  to  the  philosophic  symbolism  of  the  title  poem.  The  speakers  in 
the  latter,  as  few  readers  are  aware,  are  supposed  to  be  early  settlers  in  a 
New  Hampshire  valley.  The  volume  contains  also  poems  that  take  us  back 
to  the  California  of  Frost's  childhood.  "The  Lovely  Shall  Be  Choosers"  is 
a  detached  and  sinister  comment  on  the  fatalities  affecting  a  woman's  life. 
In  sharp  contrast  "The  Bear"  with  its  characteristic  blend  of  nature  de- 
scription and  philosophical  reference  is  one  of  the  best  of  the  long  series 
of  poems  about  animals,  birds,  and  insects  in  Frost's  gallery. 

With  A  Further  Range  (1936)  and  the  books  that  follow  it  the  balance 
tips  still  further  toward  reflective  poetry,  though  each  collection  contains 
a  few  lyrics  that  rank  with  the  best.  "A  Lone  Striker"  reminds  us  that 
Frost  is  one  of  the  few  contemporary  poets  who  has  been  actually,  though 
briefly,  a  factory  worker.  "Two  Tramps  in  Mud  Time"  includes,  along 
with  a  lovely  picture  of  the  breaking  of  winter,  a  profoundly  human 
statement  on  the  philosophy  of  labor,  maintaining  a  man's  right  to  do  a 
job  because  he  loves  doing  it  as  against  the  modern  sociological  way  of 
thinking  that  jobs  should  be  allotted  to  those  who  need  the  wages. 

My  right  might  be  love  but  theirs  was  need. 
And  where  the  two  exist  in  twain 
Theirs  was  the  better  right — agreed. 

But  yield  who  will  to  their  separation 
My  object  in  living  is  to  unite 
My  avocation  and  my  vocation 
As  my  two  eyes  make  one  in  sight. 
Only  where  love  and  need  are  one, 
And  the  work  is  play  for  mortal  stakes, 
Is  the  deed  ever  really  done 
For  Heaven  and  the  future's  sakes.4 

The  poem  called  "Not  Quite  Social"  culminates  in  a  quatrain  which 
memorably  condenses  Frost's  attitude  toward  the  world  and  toward  the 
poet's  function. 

You  may  taunt  me  with  not  being  able  to  flee  the  earth. 
You  have  me  there,  but  loosely  as  I  would  be  held. 
The  way  of  understanding  is  partly  mirth. 
I  would  not  be  taken  as  ever  having  rebelled. 

The  mischievous  note,  deeply  implicit  in  some  of  the  early  poems, 
comes  to  the  surface  in  "Departmental"  and  elsewhere  in  this  collection. 
It  remains  an  almost  constant  concomitant  of  Frost's  later  outlook. 

Mischief  coupled  with  a  desire  to  settle  scores  with  some  of  his  anti- 

4  The  following  quotations  of  poetry  are  from  Complete  Poems  of  Robert  Frost, 
1949.  (Copyright,  1947,  1949,  by  Henry  Holt  and  Company,  Inc.  Copyright,  1936,  1942, 
by  Robert  Frost.  Used  by  permission  of  the  publishers.) 


9o6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

pathies  dominates  "A  Considerable  Speck"  in  A  Witness  Tree  (1942),  and 
in  this  book  we  find  also  a  considerable  number  of  brief  apothegms 
humorously  expressing  a  wisdom  wrung  from  long  experience  of  living. 
Other  high  points  of  the  volume  are  the  sonnet  entitled  "The  Silken 
Tent,"  one  of  the  most  technically  perfect  of  Frost's  poems,  and  the 
symbolic  lyric  called  "Come  In,"  one  of  his  triumphs  of  effortless  and 
seemingly  casual  writing.  He  appears  at  his  best  in  the  sententious  vein 
reminiscent  of  Horace  in  "Choose  Something  Like  a  Star,"  5  which  un- 
luckily  has  never  been  included  in  the  Collected  Poems. 

Steeple  Bush  (1947),  though  it  holds  the  dexterously  lyrical  "One  Step 
Backward  Taken,"  is  largely  composed  of  thoughtful  commentaries, 
many  of  them  on  topics  of  the  day,  and  has  more  than  its  due  proportion 
of  whimsicality  and  teasing.  While  it  illustrates  Frost  in  his  latest  phase  as 
an  informal  philosopher  who  has  made  up  his  mind  about  the  trifling 
nature  of  several  matters  that  the  world  tends  to  take  with  overmuch 
concern,  it  also  communicates  to  readers  his  characteristic  desire  to 
provoke  responses  in  kind.  There  can  be  no  question  that  this  poet  has 
suffered  as  deeply  as  a  sensitive  nature  can  suffer,  but  he  has  possessed  a 
tough  resilience  that  refuses  to  acknowledge  defeat  and  which  always 
finds  somewhere  living  waters  to 

Drink  and  be  whole  again  beyond  confusion. 

The  dramatic  quality  of  Frost's  imagination  has  been  noted  incidentally 
in  describing  his  poems.  It  is  not  surprising  that  he  should  have  tried  his 
hand  at  plays,  though  he  has  never  committed  himself  entirely  to  the 
drama.  A  whimsical  one-act  play  in  prose  called  A  Way  Out  was  printed 
in  1929.  Some  other  experiments  in  dramatic  form  remain  in  manuscript. 
But  no  account  of  Frost's  best  work  would  be  complete  which  failed  to 
mention  A  Masque  of  Reason  (1945)  and  A  Masque  of  Mercy  (1947), 
two  verse  plays  in  which  his  fondness  for  philosophic  discussion  and  his 
keen  sense  of  character  are  happily  applied  to  a  consideration  of  man's 
relation  to  some  of  the  larger  issues  of  life. 

Frost  has  from  time  to  time,  and  somewhat  reluctantly,  expressed  him- 
self in  prose,  generally  on  critical  questions.  Two  of  his  most  revealing 
pronouncements  are  his  "Education  by  Poetry"  6  and  his  introduction  to 
E.  A.  Robinson's  posthumous  King  Jasper,  in  which  he  sets  forth  the 
difference  between  Robinson's  (and  incidentally  his  own)  sense  of  in- 
evitable human  griefs  and  the  effort  of  fashion-conscious  poets  to  exploit 
remediable  grievances. 

Whether  he  writes  in  prose  or  verse,  in  lyric  or  drama,  Frost  has  never 
shown  a  disposition  to  underestimate  the  pangs  of  living  nor  to  shrink 

'Come  In  and  Other  Poems,  selected  by  Louis  Untermeyer  (1943),  p.  192.  It  is 
included  in  The  Complete  Poems  (1949). 

6  Amherst  Graduates''  Quart.,  Vol.  20  (Feb.  193 1),  pp.  75-85. 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN  907 

from  them.  He  has  heartily  disagreed  with  the  loose  humanitarian  trends 
of  his  time,  but  he  can  truly  be  said  to  deserve  the  sentence  he  has  com- 
posed for  his  epitaph: 

I  had  a  lover's  quarrel  with  the  world. 


One  of  the  blind  alleys  of  literary  criticism  is  the  recent  tendency  to 
focus  attention  on  the  writer  rather  than  on  his  product.  The  soldier  no 
doubt  deserves  personal  credit  for  the  number  of  wounds  he  has  received, 
but  the  only  question  of  public  importance  is  what  he  accomplished  in 
getting  them.  A  writer's  trauma  is  of  very  secondary  importance  as  com- 
pared to  what  he  was  able  to  achieve  because  of  it  or  in  spite  of  it. 
(Opinion  on  this  point  seems  to  be  still  divided).  The  study  of  "reeling 
and  writhing"  may  best  be  left  to  Lewis  Carroll's  Mock  Turtle. 

These  reflections  are  pertinent  to  a  consideration  of  the  novels  and 
stories  of  Willa  Cather  (1876-1947),  since  her  work  clearly  betrays  the 
urgencies  of  extreme  and  complex  tensions.  One  may  guess  the  nature  and 
causes  of  some  of  these  if  one  wishes,  but  the  fact  of  supreme  importance 
for  literature  is  that  from  these  pressures  or  torsions  emerged  the  ultimate 
lucidity  and  concentration  of  a  great  style.  Nor  can  a  great  style  be 
achieved  in  a  moral  vacuum.  Miss  Cather  has  been  accused  of  failing  to 
face  the  major  issues  of  her  time,  meaning  the  issues  which  her  critic  has 
elected  to  consider  major.7  The  truth  is  that  she  faces  from  first  to  last  the 
one  timeless  issue  of  human  existence,  the  problem  of  how  to  have  life 
more  abundantly.  It  is  no  reproach  to  a  woman  writer  that  her  standard 
of  values  should  sometimes  be  colored  by  an  exalted  strain  of  eivig  weib- 
liche  and  at  other  times  be  frankly  feminine. 

The  honesty  of  her  method  is  reflected  in  the  conviction  that  a  writer's 
best  material  derives  from  the  experiences  deeply  absorbed  in  childhood. 
For  Willa  Cather  this  meant  a  dim  backward  recollection  of  her  earliest 
years  in  northern  Virginia  and  a  remarkably  full  and  vital  contact  in  her 
teens  with  the  Bohemian,  Scandinavian,  German,  and  French-Canadian 
settlers  of  the  Nebraska  prairie.  For  sixteen  years  after  her  graduation 
from  the  state  university  she  was  employed,  first,  as  a  journalist  in  Pitts- 
burgh, then  briefly  as  a  high  school  teacher,  and  finally,  in  New  York,  as 
a  member  of  the  staff  of  McClnre's  Magazine.  She  traveled  much  in 
Europe,  chiefly  in  France,  and  became  conversant  with  the  cosmopolitan 
world  of  literature,  art,  and  music.  She  also  came  to  know  on  vacations 
the  American  Southwest.  The  regions  named  supply  with  few  exceptions 

7  Maxwell  Geismar,  The  Last  of  the  Provincials  (Boston,  1947),  p.  217.  "For  the 
whole  range  of  Cather's  values,  standards,  tastes,  and  prejudices,  her  tone,  is  that  of 
an  inherent  aristocrat  in  an  equalitarian  order,  or  an  agrarian  writer  in  an  industrial 
order,  of  a  defender  of  the  spiritual  graces  in  the  midst  of  an  increasingly  materialistic 
culture." 


9o8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

the  backgrounds  of  Miss  Cather's  fiction.  Her  first  novel,  which  is  one  of 
the  conspicuous  exceptions  and  which  incidentally  may  be  suspected  of 
being  a  projection  of  a  personal  problem  in  terms  of  an  imagined  "objec- 
tive correlative,"  was  in  its  author's  mature  opinion  a  failure,  though  it 
still  has  warm  admirers  among  discerning  readers. 

In  view  of  the  fact  that  Miss  Cather's  early  reputation  was  to  rest  on 
her  dynamic  pictures  of  pioneer  life  on  the  plains,  it  is  interesting  to  note 
that  the  first  stories  she  published  are  marked  by  a  strong  revulsion 
against  the  culturally  impoverished  Western  small  town.8  For  one  who 
had  seen  the  remorseless  drudgery  and  bleak  monotony  of  life  in  the 
newly  settled  regions  the  cultural  amenities  were  not  things  to  be  lightly 
taken  for  granted.  They  were  indescribably  precious  and  august.  The 
only  life  worth  living  was  the  life  made  possible  by  wealth  and  social 
position,  or  more  particularly  by  artistic  success  where  roses  kept  coming 
across  the  footlights  in  lavish  profusion.  Miss  Cather's  first  conception  of 
the  good  life  was  distinctly  provincial.  It  made  possible  an  evocation  of 
the  transient  luxurious  age  of  the  hansom  cab,  an  evocation  more  subtly 
passionate  than  Mrs.  Wharton's  because  the  author  was  unable  to  assume 
the  cool  superiority  to  the  milieu  of  a  lady  to  the  manner  born. 

After  the  high  promise  of  Alexander's  Bridge  (191 2),  a  novelette  in 
the  Jamesian  tradition,  where  the  theme  of  personal  fulfillment  appears 
in  the  middle-aged  hero's  desperate  effort  to  achieve  a  dynamic  relation- 
ship with  an  actress  of  superlative  vitality,  Miss  Cather  returned  to  the 
Nebraska  plains  with  a  deepened  appreciation  of  the  human  qualities  of 
the  early  settlers.  Her  next  three  novels  were  studies  of  triumphant  per- 
sonalities, "children  of  the  sun,"  in  whom  the  life-force  ripens  to  happy 
fruition.  Alexandra  Bergson  of  O  Pioneers/  (191 3),  a  girl  with  firmness 
of  character  to  conquer  the  hardships  of  frontier  farming,  Thea  Kronberg 
of  The  So?ig  of  the  Lark  (19 15),  who  surmounts  the  still  more  difficult 
obstacles  on  the  way  to  a  successful  career  as  an  opera  singer  of  the  first 
rank,  and  Antonia  Shimerda  of  My  Antonia  (1918),  in  whom  the  power 
of  Venus  genetrix  seems  reincarnate,  these  daughters  of  the  dispossessed 
of  Europe  symbolize  the  driving  energy  of  the  immigrant  first-comers  to 
the  western  country.  All  three  novels  are  filled  to  overflowing  with 
freshly  observed  incidents  and  traits  of  character,  much  of  which  suggests 
the  rawness  of  "the  little  beginnings  of  human  society."  But  the  pervading 
tone  is  one  of  youthfulness  and  hope.  Though  the  weak  and  the  un- 
adaptable come  to  tragic  ends,  the  strong  of  heart  possess  their  world  in 
their  time. 

But  in  possessing  their  worlds  have  they  not  lost  something  essential  to 

8  See  especially  in  The  Troll  Garden  (1905)  the  stories  entitled  "A  Death  in  the 
Desert,"  "A  Wagner  Matinee,"  and  "The  Sculptor's  Funeral."  Also  note  the  morbid 
preoccupation  with  the  niceties  of  cultivated  living  so  ambiguously  caressed  in  "Paul's 
Case." 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN  909 

a  life  of  the  spirit?  Adiss  Cather  was  too  fine  an  artist  not  to  be  aware  of 
the  inexorable  price  of  success.  All  three  of  her  heroines  sacrifice  the 
possibility  of  emotional  fulfillment.  It  is  Alexandra's  fate  to  achieve  a 
stoical  superiority,  "to  be  always  surrounded  by  little  men."  Thea  denies 
herself  marriage,  love,  and  even  the  intimacies  of  friendship  in  her  devo- 
tion to  her  career.  Antonia,  admired  but  not  possessed  by  her  childhood 
playfellow,  marries  only  to  gratify  her  maternal  instinct.  Where  then  is 
the  ecstasy,  the  glory,  and  the  dream?  Is  it  perhaps  the  sensitive  rather 
than  the  successful  who  hold  if  only  for  a  moment  the  crown  of  life? 

In  the  short  story  "Coming  Aphrodite"  published  in  Youth  and  the 
Bright  Medusa  (1920)  Miss  Cather  brings  together  and  contrasts  a  girl 
whose  heart  is  set  on  winning  popular  acclaim  on  the  stage  and  a  young 
painter  "too  intrinsic  for  renown."  Here  underlined  is  a  revocation  of  the 
excessive  respect  for  public  recognition  implied  in  some  of  her  early 
stories.  Her  next  four  novels,  One  of  Ours  (1922),  A  Lost  Lady  (1923), 
The  Professor's  House  (1925),  and  My  Mortal  Enemy  (1926),  are  por- 
traits of  unsatisfied  and  unsuccessful  people.  While  these  books  were 
being  written  in  the  quietness  of  thought,  the  country  at  large  plunged 
into  the  irresponsible  decade  of  boom  and  depression.  An  established 
order  of  things  collapsed,  or  so  Miss  Cather  thought,  somewhere  about 
1922.  Thereafter  she  felt  an  increasing  inability  to  go  with  the  drift 
of  things. 

One  of  Ours,  a  Pulitzer  Prize  novel  though  by  no  means  its  author's 
best,  is  probably  the  most  unhackneyed  account  of  the  First  World  War 
in  fiction.  It  exactly  reverses  the  stereotype  that  young  intellectuals 
favored.  For  them  the  war  was  a  dirty  and  intolerable  interruption  of 
their  private  lives.  For  Miss  Gather's  hero,  on  the  contrary,  the  oppor- 
tunity for  dedication  to  a  cause  larger  than  himself  brought  a  rapture  of 
release  from  a  sterile  life  of  routine.  In  mercy  he  is  spared  the  return  to 
the  disillusionments  of  peace.  The  frustrations  incident  to  a  life  without 
challenge  were  not  apparent  to  younger  novelists. 

Miss  Cather,  however,  felt  that  the  passing  of  the  age  of  pioneering 
and  empire-building  involved  a  psychological  readjustment  that  many 
individuals  were  unable  to  make.  Her  next  two  books  deal  in  different 
ways  with  the  contrast  between  the  heroic  and  the  humdrum.  In  A  Lost 
Lady  the  progressive  cheapening  of  human  values  in  the  twilight  of  a 
great  age  is  symbolized  in  the  deterioration  of  the  vivid  wife  of  Captain 
Forrester  as  her  thirst  for  life  at  any  price  impels  her  to  barter  herself 
to  a  worsening  series  of  lovers,  until  she  is  possessed  by  the  cold  and 
grasping  Ivy  Peters,  a  type  of  the  petty  inheritors  or  rather  scavengers 
of  the  West.  The  Professor's  House,  as  its  epigraph  indicates,  contrasts 
the  slowly  stagnating  middle-aged  Godfrey  St.  Peter  with  the  young 
and  virile  discoverer  Tom  Outland,  his  favorite  student,  who  has  been 
killed  in  the  World  War.  It  comes  to  a  close  when  the  Professor  recon- 


9io  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

dies  himself  to  the  realities  of  a  faded  existence.  My  Mortal  Enemy  is  a 
novelette  about  an  impetuous  woman  who  finally  realizes  that  her  great- 
est handicap  is  her  own  undisciplined  nature.  Miss  Cather's  characteriza- 
tions are  especially  keen  in  these  books. 

Her  probings  into  psychological  maladjustments  in  these  studies  of 
"children  of  the  moon"  prepared  the  ground  for  two  of  Miss  Cather's 
finest  novels  in  which  she  resumes  consideration  of  strong  and  trium- 
phant personalities,  strong  not  now  in  their  individual  right  but  as  rep- 
resentatives of  great  civilizing  forces.  Death  Comes  for  the  Archbishop 
(1927),  based  on  the  biography  of  the  first  Roman  Catholic  archbishop 
of  New  Mexico,  is  full  of  a  sense  of  the  irremediable  lapse  of  time  and 
the  obdurate  animality  of  man,  vet  it  makes  beautifully  clear  the  dif- 
ference between  complete  submission  to  the  drift  of  things  and  resolu- 
tion to  take  spiritual  advantage  of  the  marginal  "bank  and  shoal  of  time" 
available  for  human  action.  With  fine  economy  in  the  selection  of  epi- 
sodes Miss  Cather  has  discriminated  the  superimposed  civilizations  of 
the  southwest  country,  the  stone-age  culture  of  the  Indians,  the  decaved 
gentility  of  the  Mexican  grandees  and  the  pastoralism  of  the  peons,  the 
hard  agressiveness  of  the  Yankee  newcomers;  and  in  the  midst  of  these 
indurated  peoples  the  insistent  religious  influence  of  the  French  mis- 
sionarv  priests  like  springs  of  water  in  the  desert,  gentle,  insinuating, 
fertilizing  wherever  it  goes.  As  an  instrument  of  a  mighty  power  Father 
Latour  is  lifted  above  accidents  of  fate,  and  when  death  comes  for  his 
worn  body  it  can  only  set  the  seal  on  the  spiritual  achievements  of  his 
well-spent  years. 

The  light  of  civilization  is  more  dim  and  diffused  in  Shadows  on  the 
Rock  (193 1 ),  a  story  of  Quebec  in  the  early  eighteenth  century.  Again 
Miss  Cather  contrasts  the  barbarism  of  life  in  the  wilderness  with  the 
effort  to  preserve  and  perpetuate  the  amenities  of  existence  on  the  part 
of  Count  Frontenac  and  the  little  handful  of  unbrutalized  men  and 
women  who  form  the  "society"  of  the  outpost.  The  theme  of  the  novel 
is  the  preciousness  of  culture,  including  all  the  gracious  apparatus  that 
makes  cultured  living  possible.  Sometimes  the  reader  is  left  in  some  doubt 
as  to  whether  religion  or  the  cuisine  is  the  more  necessary  basis  of  civili- 
zation as  Miss  Cather  envisages  it.  Perhaps  only  the  inhabitants  of  devas- 
tated regions  today  can  fully  appreciate  the  real  connection  of  salads 
and  salvation. 

After  these  two  great  historical  canvases  Miss  Cather  returned  to  her 
old  concern  for  the  self-realization  of  the  individual  in  the  most  purely 
lyrical  of  her  novels,  Lucy  Gay  heart  (1935).  Again  we  encounter  famil- 
iar elements— the  girl  of  unusual  sensibility  and  talent  emerging  from 
a  drab  background,  attaining  a  place  in  the  world  of  artistic  achievement 
but  at  great  personal  cost,  and  after  her  early  death  leaving  to  her  friends 
an  aching  sense  of  how  "quick  bright  things  come  to  confusion."  As  a 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN  911 

symbol  of  earthly  impermanence  the  storv  stands  as  a  kind  of  coda  to  the 
books  in  which  Miss  Cather  has  touched  immortal  things. 

Her  final  novel,  Sapphira  and  the  Slave  Girl  (1940),  lies  somewhat  out 
of  the  main  stream  of  its  author's  development.  As  the  fulfillment  of  a 
long  cherished  intention  to  treat  in  fiction  the  Virginia  of  her  childhood, 
it  is  more  historically  objective  than  the  Nebraska  stories.  Miss  Cather's 
sharply  original  attitude  toward  her  material  was  never  better  dem- 
onstrated than  in  her  firm  handling  of  the  sexual  implications  of  slavery. 
A4oreover,  the  quiet  contrast  between  the  mulatto  girl  Nancy  while  she 
is  still  a  slave  and  the  same  girl  after  she  has  known  twenty-five  years 
of  freedom  enforces  a  lesson  which  should  not  be  missed  by  advocates  of 
a  free  society. 

The  title  story  in  the  posthumously  published  The  Old  Beauty  and 
Others  (1948)  dwells  once  more  on  the  sadness  of  a  faded  reputation. 
Much  more  significant  is  Miss  Cather's  abiding  sense  of  the  humanity  of 
plain  people  charmingly  illustrated  in  "The  Best  Years."  The  third  story 
in  the  volume  is  of  interest  chiefly  for  its  setting  on  Grand  Manan  Island, 
where  Miss  Cather  spent  many  summers. 

Miss  Cather  stood  in  a  time  of  general  disintegration  for  uncompro- 
mising standards  of  artistic  distinction.  Among  contemporary  novelists 
she  had  no  superiors.  To  find  her  equals  one  must  turn  back  to  great 
figures  in  the  nineteenth-century  tradition,  to  Sarah  Orne  Jewett,  Henry 
James,  and  Gustave  Flaubert.  Unlike  most  American  writers  of  fiction 
she  never  adopted  a  preconceived  pattern  for  either  novel  or  short  story, 
but  always  achieved  a  form  that  arose  from  long  pondering  of  her 
material.  Her  sense  of  economy  led  her  to  protest  against  the  "over- 
furnished"  narratives  of  the  naturalistic  school,  and  her  own  books  are 
models  of  spare,  conscientious  functionalism.  In  the  title  of  her  single 
collection  of  essays,  Not  Under  Forty  (1936),  she  indicated  her  aware- 
ness of  a  widening  gulf  between  herself  and  the  oncoming  generation  of 
young  readers.  No  American  writer,  however,  can  be  more  certain  than 
she  to  capture  ultimately  the  admiration  of  posterity.  Great  artists  are 
not  so  common  in  the  United  States  that  one  of  them  can  be  forgotten. 


A  second  woman  writer  of  fiction  who  has  sturdily  upheld  the  hard- 
won  values  of  civilized  living  is  Dorothy  Canfield  Fisher  (1879-  ), 
born  in  Kansas  of  New  England  clerical  stock  and  since  1907  resident  in 
Vermont.  In  that  year  she  began  her  long  series  of  novels  with  Gunhild, 
a  narrative  with  a  Norwegian  background  contrasting  the  native  culture 
of  a  Scandinavian  girl  from  Kansas  with  the  shallow  self-sufficiency  of 
American  tourists.  In  her  principal  novels,  The  Squirrel  Cage  (19 12), 
The  Bent  Twig  (19 15),  The  Brimming  Cup  (1921),  Rough  Hewn 
(1922),  Her  Son's  Wife  (1926),  The  Deepening  Stream  (1930),  Bonfire 


9i2  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

(1933),  and  Seasoned  Timber  (1939),  Mrs.  Fisher  has  dealt  honestly  and 
unsensationally  with  such  personal  problems  and  crises  of  adjustment 
as  occur  in  the  lives  of  reasonably  intelligent  people.  Without  ever  reach- 
ing the  luminousness  of  Willa  Cather  at  her  best  or  the  representative 
value  of  a  Hemingway  or  a  Faulkner,  Mrs.  Fisher  has  impressively  main- 
tained a  level  of  sanity  and  balance.  Good  sense,  indomitable  pluck,  and 
a  tremendous  craving  for  life  are  the  qualities  chiefly  exhibited  by  the 
New  England  characters  somewhat  idealized  in  Hillsboro  People  (19 15), 
the  collection  of  short  stories  which  on  the  whole  best  represents  her 
bustling  and  domestic  talent.  She  has  at  least  done  her  best  to  offset  the 
impression  that  American  novelists  are  solely  preoccupied  with  clinical 
studies  of  morons  and  bounders. 


The  ideals  of  a  free  society,  which  Americans  of  older  stock  are  prone 
to  take  for  granted,  still  retain  their  preciousness  in  the  eyes  of  new- 
comers, who  know  what  it  is  to  live  in  a  world  differently  constituted. 
For  an  epic  handling  of  the  theme  of  American  opportunity,  and  for 
criticism  of  the  failure  of  American  society  to  live  up  to  its  promises, 
we  must  turn  to  the  children  of  European  parents.  They  have  become 
in  a  special  sense  the  best  guardians  of  democratic  traditions.  Two  of  the 
most  searching  pictures  of  the  meaning  of  America  to  the  peoples  of 
the  Old  World  are  the  work  of  Scandinavians  by  birth. 

Ole  Edvart  Rolvaag  ( 1876-193 1)  was  brought  up  to  be  a  Norwegian 
sailor  and  fisherman,  but  at  the  age  of  twenty  he  made  his  way  to  the 
United  States,  seeking  learning.  He  attended  St.  Olaf  College,  Minne- 
sota, where  he  became  professor  of  Norwegian  in  1906.  Writing  always 
in  his  native  language  Rolvaag  attempted  to  express  in  successive  works 
the  problems  of  adjustment  encountered  by  the  immigrant.  This  was  the 
theme  of  his  first  publication  Amerika-breve  (Letters  from  America, 
191 2),  which  was  never  translated,  and  of  Laengselens  Baat  (The  Boat 
of  Longing,  192 1),  which  appeared  in  English  after  his  other  books  had 
made  him  famous.  His  reputation  rests  on  his  realistic  trilogy  depicting 
the  struggles  of  Norwegian  immigrants  on  the  northwestern  prairie 
frontier,  consisting  of  Giants  in  the  Earth  (1927),  Peder  Victorious 
(1929),  and  Their  Father's  God  (1931);  the  titles  and  dates  are  those  of 
the  English  translations,  in  the  making  of  which  the  author  participated. 
Rolvaag  was  not  content  to  record  merely  the  external  hardships  of  life 
in  a  new  country.  He  was  deeply  concerned  with  the  spiritual  shocks 
incident  to  the  abandonment  of  traditional  modes  of  behavior  and  to 
contact  with  neighbors  of  different  racial  strains.  A  thread  of  mysticism 
forms  part  of  the  web  of  his  fiction,  though  the  prevailing  colors  are 
somber  tones  of  earthiness. 

A  comparable  trilogy  dealing  with  the  fortunes  of  a  Danish  family 


IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN  913 

in  eastern  Nebraska  has  been  written  by  Sophus  Keith  Winther  (1895- 
),  a  professor  of  English  at  the  University  of  Washington,  who  was 
born  in  Denmark  and  brought  to  the  United  States  at  the  age  of  two. 
His  three  novels,  Take  All  to  Nebraska  (1936),  Mortgage  Your  Heart 
(1937),  and  This  Passion  Never  Dies  (1938),  give  a  sensitive  account  of 
the  transfer  of  the  Grimsen  family  from  a  Danish  village  to  a  farm  on  the 
prairies,  of  the  various  processes  by  which  the  profits  of  their  labor  are 
diverted  to  landlords  and  bankers,  of  the  inevitable  alienation  between 
children  and  parents,  and  finally  of  the  successful  establishment,  in  spite 
of  economic  defeat  which  kills  the  father,  of  an  American  family. 
The  Grimsen  trilogy,  which  is  not  only  a  moving  human  document  but 
which  possesses  also  an  enduring  significance  as  a  social  case  history,  has 
been  translated  into  both  Danish  and  Swedish  and  has  been  favorably 
received  by  Scandinavian  readers.  In  the  country  of  its  origin  it  has  not 
met  the  recognition  that  it  deserves.  Its  illumination  of  the  experience  of 
settlers  in  the  Middle  West  reveals  a  fullness  of  understanding  and  a 
depth  of  feeling  that  should  still  be  memorable  when  the  strident  satires 
of  Sinclair  Lewis  are  forgotten. 

The  vision  of  America  as  a  land  of  freedom,  to  which  the  immigrants 
clung  even  while  they  were  being  plundered  by  an  acquisitive  society, 
may  be  indicated  by  a  few  sentences  from  Take  All  to  Nebraska  describ- 
ing the  veneration  of  the  newcomers  for  the  Fourth  of  July: 

Perhaps  this  day  appeals  even  more  strongly  to  immigrant  children  than  to 
native-born  Americans.  To  the  children  of  immigrants  it  symbolizes  the  spirit 
of  the  country,  a  spirit  they  all  hunger  for,  yearn  passionately  to  understand. 
. . .  To  be  an  immigrant,  cut  off  from  the  rich  idiom  of  one's  native  land, 
is  a  tragedy  that  has  been  enacted  millions  of  times  in  this  home  of  the 
immigrant.  To  make  up  for  it,  he  seeks  the  ideals  that  have  been  its  traditions 
from  the  days  of  the  Puritan  settlement  and  the  Revolutionary  War.  His 
rebellion,  which  is  often  attacked  by  intrenched  conservatism  as  un-American, 
is  in  truth  just  the  opposite;  it  is  truly  American,  for  it  asks  that  the  ideals 
upon  which  the  United  States  was  founded  be  worshiped  in  truth  and  in  spirit.9 

Winther  has  also  written  a  penetrating  critical  study  of  the  philosophy 
of  life  implicit  in  the  plays  of  Eugene  O'Neill  (1934),  and  more  recently 
a  fourth  novel,  Beyond  the  Garden  Gate  (1946),  in  which  his  own  con- 
sistently deterministic  views  are  powerfully  illustrated  in  the  solution 
of  tangled  human  relationships  in  a  small  town  in  Oregon.  Winther  is 
not  discouraged  by  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of  reaching  the  good  society 
through  enlightenment,  science,  and  individual  freedom.  His  latest  novel 
gives  a  profound  emotional  significance  to  the  sentence  with  which  it 
ends:  "They  were  quite  aware  of  what  it  means  to  be  human." 

9  From  Take  All  to  Nebraska  (Copyright  1936  by  The  Macmillan  Company  and 
used  with  their  permission). 


Chapter  48 

mmwm 


QJ 


THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH 


It  took  two  full  generations  for  the  Confederate  states  to  recover 
from  the  shock  of  the  Civil  War.  The  plantation  system  based  on  slave 
labor  had  seemed  to  many  natives  of  the  region  an  inspired  solution  of 
the  problem  of  social  organization.  In  the  period  just  before  the  war 
cotton  culture  was  creating  at  the  South  an  illusion  of  fabulous  pros- 
perity, and  the  not  far  distant  exhaustion  of  the  land  and  consequent 
collapse  of  the  economy  was  evident  only  to  a  few  far-sighted  observers. 
The  social  tone  set  by  the  wealthy  minority  of  plantation  owners  was 
idealistic  and  charming,  if  not  often  intellectual.  All  these  elements  of 
particularity  were  welded  together  and  exalted  by  a  consciousness  of 
separate  nationality  which  lasted  for  four  years.  The  check  to  Southern 
aspirations  administered  by  military  defeat  and  the  humiliation  of  the 
ensuing-  years  of  Reconstruction  left  the  South  bewildered  and  uncertain. 

O    J 

Only  in  recent  years  has  a  revival  occurred. 

For  several  decades  the  region  lent  itself  to  local  color  writers  in 
search  of  the  picturesque.  Inevitably,  during  a  time  of  impoverishment, 
there  was  much  fond  recollection  of  the  glamor  of  the  past.  Ideals  of 
chivalrous  behavior,  detached  from  any  basis  in  actuality,  tended  to 
acquire  a  certain  overemphasis  in  expression.  Southern  writing  at  the 
close  of  the  nineteenth  century  was  dominated  by  sentiment  and  romance. 
It  was  still  prevailingly  inspired  by  idealizations  of  what  had  been.  Even 
as  late  as  1930  one  of  the  contributors  to  the  agrarian  manifesto  entitled 
111  Take  My  Stand  could  assert:  "The  South  is  unique  on  this  continent 
for  having  founded  and  defended  a  culture  which  was  according  to  the 
FAiropean  principles  of  culture;  and  the  European  principles  had  better 
look  to  the  South  if  they  are  to  be  perpetuated  in  this  country."  l  The 
incongruity  of  an  American  culture  founded  on  European  principles 
seems  not  to  have  struck  this  writer,  though  it  would  have  roused  Whit- 
man's vigorous  disapprobation.  Stark  Young's  So  Red  the  Rose  could 

1  John  Crowe  Ransom,  quoted  by  Alfred  Kazin,  On  Native  Grounds  (1942),  p.  407. 

914 


THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH  915 

still  exploit  the  undying  pride  in  regional  particularity  when  there  were 
few  living  who  could  recall  the  fall  of  Richmond. 

The  grandchildren  of  the  men  who  fought  under  the  Stars  and  Bars, 
though  sometimes  feeling  themselves  aliens  in  a  strange  land,  began  to 
tire  of  unavailing  regrets.  With  no  loss  of  loyalty  to  their  section,  they 
declined  to  expend  their  energies  in  the  perpetuation  of  a  stereotyped 
sentiment.  They  were  eager  to  be  up  and  doing.  The  new  literature  of  the 
South,  accordingly,  has  been  created  by  writers  who  were  consciously 
discarding  the  elegiac  mood  and  who  tended  to  look  about  them,  and 

CD  7 

even  to  scrutinize  the  sacred  traditions  of  their  own  section,  with  sharply 
critical  eyes.  What  remained  with  them  unconsciously  was  a  deeply  im- 
planted sense  of  human  values,  the  instinctive  flair  for  understanding  and 
managing  people  which  comes  from  generations  of  experience  of  plan- 
tation life. 

The  South,  while  it  has  with  reservations  accepted  its  position  as  part 
of  the  United  States,  has  up  to  the  present  remained  so  separate  in  its 
attitudes  that  the  majority  of  its  writers  may  be  considered  as  a  group 
apart.  As  compared  with  any  equivalent  group  that  might  have  been 
assembled  about  the  year  1900  the  writers  of  the  second  quarter  of  the 
twentieth  century  show  an  increasing  variety  of  outlook. 


One  of  the  first  to  examine  with  candid  and  appraising  mind  the 
prescribed  patterns  of  Southern  life  was  herself  a  woman  closely  held 
within  the  framework  of  convention.  Ellen  Glasgow  (1874-1947)  was 
by  birth  an  aristocratic  Virginian,  yet  perhaps  significantly  her  family  rep- 
resented the  Scotch-Irish  Presbyterian  strain  and  her  father  was  an  early 
industrialist  who  molded  cannon  for  the  Confederacy.  To  the  delicacies 
of  sentiment  Miss  Glasgow  applied  the  "vein  of  iron"  that  was  her  per- 
sonal inheritance,  and  which  not  seldom  became  a  vein  of  irony.  It  was 
not  that  she  was  in  revolt  against  the  tradition  of  southern  gentility,  but 
that  she  could  no  longer  keep  up  its  system  of  make-believe.  For  the 
"sanctified  fallacies"  of  the  genteel  code  she  substituted  a  clear-eyed 
recognition  of  the  facts. 

In  an  early  novel,  The  Deliverance  (1904),  she  expressed  her  appreci- 
ation of  the  chivalrous  devotion  demanded  by  the  code,  and  at  the  same 
time  she  showed  that  she  was  perfectly  aware  of  its  sublime  refusal  to  face 
realities.  An  apt  symbol  of  the  decay  of  a  culture  is  the  blind  matriarch 
of  the  Blake  family  for  whose  sake  the  others  maintain  the  fiction 
that  nothing  has  been  changed.  For  twenty  years  after  Appomattox  she 
is  allowed  to  believe  that  the  Confederates  have  triumphed  and  that 
slavery  still  exists.  She  has  never  been  subjected  to  the  humiliation  of 
knowing  that  the  family  mansion  has  been  sold,  and  every  day  she  has 
been  fed  her  accustomed  chicken  and  port,  though  there  may  be  nothing 


9i 6  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

in  the  larder  for  anyone  else.  So  to  the  end  she  promulgates  an  inflexible 
rule  of  life:  "Remember  to  be  a  gentleman,  and  you  find  that  that  em- 
braces all  morality  and  a  good  deal  of  religion."  The  only  flaw  in  this 
gallant  creed  is  that  it  leaves  economics  out  of  account. 

Omitting  Miss  Glasgow's  first  two  novels,  The  Descendant  (1897)  an^ 
Phases  of  an  Inferior  Planet  (1898),  which  treat  of  Virginians  in  New 
York  City  with  a  prevailingly  romantic  tone  and  even  with  touches  of 
melodrama,  we  find  her  in  full  possession  of  her  own  particular  field  in 
The  Voice  of  the  People  (1900),  a  story  with  a  Virginia  setting  and 
portraying  the  struggle  to  rise  of  a  powerful  self-made  man  typical  of 
the  emergent  lower  middle  class.  To  the  theme  of  self-assertion  in  the 
face  of  difficulties,  often  with  a  contrast  between  the  old  social  order  and 
the  new,  Miss  Glasgow  returned  repeatedly  until  in  Barren  Ground 
(1925)  she  created  an  epic  of  rural  life  that  gave  it  ultimate  expression. 
The  Romance  of  a  Plain  Man  (1909)  brings  a  poor  boy  to  a  somewhat 
romantically  conceived  success  in  life.  In  The  Miller  of  Old  Church 
(191 1 ),  on  the  other  hand,  a  web  of  circumstance  spun  by  a  woman's 
selfishness  enmeshes  a  whole  group  of  characters  in  a  tragic  nexus. 
Virginia  (191 3)  is  the  ironic  story  of  a  sweet  and  undemanding  woman 
who  sacrifices  herself  for  her  husband  and  family  until  she  has  no  per- 
sonal quality  left,  and  her  man  turns  elsewhere  to  find  the  inspiration  that 
he  craves.  Life  and  Gabriella  (19 16)  reverses  the  plot  by  giving  the 
woman  who  has  been  abandoned  by  her  husband  a  career  in  which  she 
finds  a  satisfying  fulfillment,  The  Builders  (19 19)  reflects  the  ideal  hopes 
for  a  national  leadership  to  arise  from  the  new  South,  and  One  Man  and 
His  Time  (1922)  pictures  an  independent  and  vigorous  political  leader  in 
conflict  with  moribund  institutions. 

The  idealism  of  these  novels  and  the  implied  admiration  for  uncon- 
querable force  of  character  are  concentrated  in  Barren  Ground,  which 
like  Willa  Cather's  O  Pioneers!  describes  the  long  struggle  of  a  determined 
girl  to  wring  a  livelihood  out  of  an  impoverished  farm.  Like  Alexandra 
Bergson  too  Dorinda  Oakley  is  unable  to  find  a  man  to  match  her  own 
powers  of  will.  After  she  has  buried  both  a  husband  and  a  lover  whose 
weaknesses  have  been  only  too  plainly  exposed,  she  faces  life  without 
illusions: 

Though  in  a  measure  destiny  had  defeated  her,  for  it  had  given  her  none  of 
the  gifts  she  asked  of  it,  still  her  failure  was  one  of  those  defeats,  she  realized, 
which   are   victories.   At  middle-age   she  faced  the  future   without  romantic 

glamour,  but  she  faced  it  with  integrity  of  vision Though  she  remembered 

the  time  when  loveliness  was  like  a  sword  in  her  heart,  she  knew  now  that 
where  beauty  exists  the  understanding  soul  can  never  remain  desolate.2 

This  strong  and  somber  narrative,  which  is  less  out  of  line  with  Miss 
Glasgow's  previous  novels  than  is  sometimes  supposed,   represents   her 

2  Barren  Ground  (Harcourt,  Brace  and  Company,  Inc.,  1925),  p.  510. 


THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH  917 

special  quality  less  fully  than  the  three  books  that  followed,  The  Romantic 
Comedians  (1926),  They  Stooped  to  Folly  (1929),  and  The  Sheltered 
Life  (1932).  In  these  she  presents  the  genteel  and  urban  life  which  she 
most  thoroughly  understood,  with  a  sympathy  that  does  not  rule  out  a 
keen  perception  of  its  shortcomings.  Ostensibly  the  limitations  of  patri- 
cian society  are  pictured  with  a  twinkle  of  amusement,  as  in  the  series 
of  contrasts  embodied  in  these  sentences: 

About  her  the  old  house  stirred  and  murmured  and  creaked  with  a  life  of  its 
own;  and  beyond  the  house  there  was  the  world  in  which  factories  boomed, 
steam  whistles  blew,  bad  smells  sprang  up  on  the  wind,  and  the  new  red  touring 
cars  buzzed  through  the  streets.  In  the  library  voices  flowed  on  and  stopped 
and  flowed  on  again,  like  a  brook  over  pebbles.  Beyond  the  French  window, 
the  blows  of  a  hammer  rang  out,  clear  as  a  bell,  from  the  stable  where  old  Mr. 
Crocker  and  his  son  Joseph  were  repairing  the  roof.  Across  the  hall,  in  the 
back  drawing  room,  Aunt  Isabella  was  revenging  herself  on  the  piano  for 
her  broken  engagement 3 

But  the  social  comedy  of  Ellen  Glasgow  is  never  self-contained  like 
that  of  Jane  Austen.  It  has  a  way  of  slipping  over  into  psychological 
disaster  that  reminds  us  how  much  more  various  than  fiction  is  the  world 
of  actuality.  Thus  the  adolescent  infatuation  of  the  impregnably  inno- 
cent Jenny  Blair  in  The  Sheltered  Life  is  the  immediate  cause  of  the 
violent  death  of  the  man  she  has  dreamily  adored,  a  fact  which  lends 
tremendous  irony  to  her  final  cry:  "I  didn't  mean  anything  in  the  world!" 
A  further  testimony  to  the  novelist's  resolute  realism  is  her  preference 
for  elderly  heroes:  Judge  Honeywell,  about  whom  The  Romantic  Come- 
dians revolves  has  just  turned  sixty-five;  Virginius  Littlepage  of  They 
Stooped  to  Folly  is  fifty-seven.  The  cautious  relations  of  these  elderly 
beaux  with  women  still  not  unwilling  to  be  wooed  afford  scenes  of  purest 
comedy.  The  comic  spirit  also  illuminates  A4iss  Glasgow's  portrait  of 
Mary  Victoria  Littlepage,  a  positive  and  rigidly  moral  young  woman, 
whose  efforts  to  regulate  the  lives  of  those  about  her  invariably  lead  to 
the  reconfounding  of  confusion.  In  her  unconventional  treatment  of 
Richmond  aristocrats  Miss  Glasgow  has  proved  herself  an  artist  of  original 
force,  who  has  established  her  own  way  of  looking  at  life  and  has  thereby 
enriched  the  cultural  heritage  of  Americans. 

With  Vein  of  Iron  (1935),  a  return  to  rural  Virginia  and  to  a  final 
glorification  of  a  woman's  indomitable  courage,  Miss  Glasgow's  long  shelf 
of  novels  came  to  an  end,  except  for  one  of  her  weakest  performances, 
In  This  Our  Life  (1941),  which  alone  of  all  her  books  received  a  Pulitzer 
Prize.  A  wise  and  reflective  interpretation  of  prose  fiction,  A  Certain 
Measure  (1938),  set  the  seal  on  her  career. 


The  Sheltered  Life  (Doubleday  and  Company,  Inc.,  1932),  p.  12. 


9i 8  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  realism  of  Ellen  Glasgow  was  of  the  unusual  kind  that  is  always 
opening  windows  on  the  world  outside  her  immediate  subject.  The  in- 
ward-looking realism  more  often  associated  with  regional  writing  has 
been  practiced  by  a  large  number  of  Southern  authors,  and  by  none  with 
greater  distinction  than  Elizabeth  A4adox  Roberts  (1886-1941).  As  a 
member  of  a  family  which  settled  in  Kentucky  in  the  days  of  Daniel 
Boone,  she  possessed  the  instinctive  and  intimate  knowledge  of  the  locality 
which  is  the  first  requisite  for  a  regionalist.  The  second  requisite,  per- 
spective, she  acquired  at  the  University  of  Chicago.  Her  first  and  best 
novel,  The  Time  of  Man  (1926),  is  a  remarkable  evocation  of  the  soul 
of  a  mountain  woman,  in  which  the  author  has  succeeded  in  completely 
identifying  her  point  of  view  with  the  untutored  mind  of  her  chief 
character.  Slightly  less  vivid  is  the  historical  narrative  of  the  first  coming 
of  white  settlers,  The  Great  Meadow  (1930).  Miss  Roberts  has  not  been 
altogether  happy  in  her  subsequent  attempts  at  synthetic  folksy  fantasy. 

The  sound  but  secondary  talent  of  T.  S.  Stribling  (1881-  )  has 
quietly  and  deftly  constructed  stories  of  life  and  character  in  the  small 
villages  of  Tennessee,  where  he  grew  up  as  the  son  of  a  country  news- 
paper editor.  His  Teeftallow  (1926)  was  the  first  selection  of  the  Book- 
of-the-Month  Club,  while  The  Store  (1932)  won  a  Pulitzer  Prize.  The 
Forge  ( 193 1 )  represents  his  insight  at  its  best.  Aiarjorie  Kinnan  Rawlings 
in  The  Yearling  (1938)  and  a  number  of  volumes  of  short  stories  has 
effectively  exploited  the  life  of  dwellers  in  the  Florida  Everglades,  not 
without  the  touches  of  popular  sentiment  to  which  the  writing  of  a 
veteran  journalist  is  peculiarly  susceptible. 

A  special  branch  of  Southern  regionalism  has  concerned  itself  with 
the  interpretation  of  the  Negro.  DuBose  Heyward  (1885-1940),  who  in- 
augurated an  exceptionally  versatile  literary  career  by  joining  Hervey 
Allen  in  a  volume  of  convincing  regional  poems,  Carolina  Chansons 
(1922),  proceeded  to  utilize  a  knowledge  of  Negro  ways  which  he  had 
acquired  while  working  on  the  Charleston  waterfront  in  his  powerful 
novel  Porgy  (1925)  and  the  equally  veracious  Mambtfs  Daughters  (1929). 
Both  these  novels  were  successfully  dramatized  with  the  help  of  Hey- 
ward's  wife,  and  the  former  was  transformed  into  a  folk-opera  entitled 
Porgy  and  Bess  (1935)  with  music  by  Gershwin.  Meanwhile  Heyward 
had  written  an  almost  unbearably  poignant  tragic  play  on  the  theme  of 
miscegenation,  The  Brass  Ankle  (1931),  and  had  portrayed  in  his  later 
novels  other  aspects  of  southern  life  besides  those  connected  with  Gullah 
Negroes.  Angel  (1926)  is  a  story  of  mountaineers,  Peter  Ashley  (1932) 
a  historical  novel,  and  Star-Spangled  Virgin  (1939)  a  study  based  on  the 
folkways  of  the  Virgin  Islands.  In  Heyward's  Jasbo  Brown  and  Selected 
Poems  (1931)  may  be  found  some  of  the  finest  presentations  of  the  im- 
poverished and  gallant  white  patrician  in  Southern  literature. 

Other  writers  who   have  dealt  particularly   with   black   folk   include 


THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH  919 

A4rs.  Julia  Peterkin  (1880-  ),  the  wife  of  a  South  Carolina  cotton 
planter,  who  has  vividly  evoked  the  characteristics  of  Negro  farm 
workers  in  Scarlet  Sister  Mary  (1928);  and  Roark  Bradford  (1896- 1948), 
author  of  a  series  of  books  revealing  the  workings  of  the  Negroid  imagina- 
tion as  applied  to  Bible  incidents.  From  his  OP  Man  Adam  and  His  Chil- 
lun  (1928)  and  its  successors  Adarc  Connolly  created  the  highly  amusing 
colored  miracle  play,  The  Green  Pastures  (1930),  which  strikingly  ex- 
emplified the  essentially  dramatic  quality  of  the  Negro's  vision  of  life. 
Bradford's  John  Henry  (1931),  based  on  the  well-known  ballad  of  the 
gigantic  steel-driver  who  wished  to  die  with  his  hammer  in  his  hand,  is 
a  sympathetic  representation  of  a  Negro  folk-hero,  who  in  this  instance 
also  represents  humanity  in  competition  with  the  machine. 

Meanwhile  Negro  authors  from  the  North  as  well  as  the  South  were 
engaged  in  a  long  struggle  to  break  the  stereotypes  imposed  on  their 
race  by  white  readers.  Paul  Laurence  Dunbar  (1872-1906),  the  leading 
Negro  poet  at  the  opening  of  the  century,  found  tolerant  acceptance  for 
his  Lyrics  of  Lowly  Life  (1896),  written  in  standardized  Uncle  Remus 
dialect,  but  could  hardly  get  a  hearing  for  the  poems  in  normal  English 
included  in  Lyrics  of  the  Hearthside  (1899).  Literary  work  "by  an  Ameri- 
can of  acknowledged  color"  was  not  regarded  as  a  good  risk  by  the  pub- 
lisher who  rejected  the  first  novel  by  Charles  W.  Chesnutt  (185 8- 1932). 
The  eventual  publication  of  his  problem  novels  dealing  honestly  with 
the  special  predicaments  of  the  Negro  was  made  possible  only  by  the 
fact  that  Chesnutt  had  attained  an  established  reputation  as  a  writer  of 
short  stories  (his  best  work)  before  the  long-guarded  secret  of  his  race 
was  disclosed.  Booker  T.  Washington,  hailed  by  whites  as  the  leader 
of  his  people,  counseled  humility,  compromise,  and  unlimited  patience, 
projecting  the  transcendence  of  racial  prejudice  into  the  distant  future. 

Many  Negroes,  however,  were  unwilling  to  accept  petrified  attitudes 
which  after  the  First  World  War  no  longer  corresponded  to  social  reali- 
ties. A  few  "went  white"  and  limited  themselves  to  work  which  ignored 
their  deepest  psychological  experience.  A  typical  figure  of  this  phase, 
which  was  not  of  long  duration,  was  William  Stanley  Braithwaite  (1878- 
),  who  as  literary  editor  of  the  Boston  Transcript  and  compiler 
of  numerous  annual  anthologies  of  magazine  verse  allowed  no  trace  of 
racial  feeling  to  color  his  writing.  James  Weldon  Johnson  (1871-1938), 
an  author  of  versatile  genius,  began  his  career  by  composing  "coon  songs" 
in  the  Negro  minstrel  tradition  and  a  popular  anthem  of  the  race,  "Lift 
Every  Voice  and  Sing"  (1900),  which  implicitly  accepted  the  humble 
place  allotted  to  colored  folk.  But  in  his  novel,  The  Autobiography  of  an 
Ex-Colored  Man  (19 12),  he  put  the  traditional  stereotypes  behind  him, 
while  in  his  influential  anthology,  The  Book  of  American  Negro  Poetry 
(1922),  in  his  original  poems  entitled  God's  Trombones  (19 17),  and  in 
numerous  essays  and  studies  in  Negro  life  he  entered  fully  into  the  race- 


92o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

conscious  and  race-proud  attitude  which  marks  the  maturity  of  Ameri- 
can Negro  writing. 

This  attitude  may  be  said  to  have  found  its  first  powerful  expression 
in  W.  E.  B.  DuBois'  (1868-  )  The  Souls  of  Black  Folk  (1903),  a 
book  prescient  of  things  to  come.  The  sense  that  the  Negro  by  realizing 
fully  his  racial  consciousness  might  make  his  finest  contribution  to  the 
national  culture  has  been  increasingly  sustained  in  the  poetry  of  Countee 
Cullen  (1903- 1 946),  Langston  Hughes  (1902-  ),  and  Claude  McKay 
(1890-  ),  and  in  fiction  by  a  variety  of  writers.  McKay's  Banjo 
(1929)  may  be  cited  as  a  work  of  high  quality.  Negro  literature  narrowly 
escaped  diversion  into  atavistic  and  exotic  channels  during  the  Harlem 
jazz  craze  of  the  Depression  era.  But  it  has  reached  an  assured  culmina- 
tion in  the  powerful  fiction  of  Richard  Wright  (1909-  ),  beginning 
with  Uncle  Tom's  Children  (1938)  and  including  especially  Native  Son 
(1940)  and  his  autobiographical  Black  Boy  (1945).  In  these  novels,  which 
have  been  widely  translated,  the  Negro  author  comes  to  full  stature  in 
that  he  writes  primarily  as  a  Negro,  not  for  a  special  audience  of  his 
own  race  or  of  white  patrons,  but  freely  to  white  and  black  readers  alike. 
Moreover  a  constant  theme  is  that  on  which  the  Negro  can  speak  with 
authority,  the  poisonous  effect  of  prejudice  both  on  assumed  superiors 
and  inferiors.  The  success  of  Wright's  work  gives  hope  to  Negro  novel- 
ists and  poets  in  the  years  ahead. 


Much  the  same  material  that  has  attracted  the  regional  novelist  has 
proved  equally  serviceable  to  the  provincial  playwright.  Dramas  em- 
phasizing indigenous  character  types  and  local  customs  have  been  de- 
veloped largely  under  academic  auspices,  but  memorable  examples  have 
been  produced  by  little  theatre  groups  and  a  few  have  achieved  success 
on  Broadway,  notably  the  dramatic  version  of  Caldwell's  Tobacco  Road. 
In  general,  however,  the  drama  of  the  provinces  has  by  nature  tended 
to  feature  colloquial  speech  and  other  elements  connected  with  setting 
rather  than  with  plot  and  character.  It  represents,  therefore,  a  whole- 
some tendency  to  escape  from  stereotyped  urban  living  to  a  more  genuine 
and  primitive  society.  Still  only  the  exceptional  regional  play  has  tran- 
scended what  may  be  called  provincial  self-consciousness  and  attained  the 
simplicity  of  starkly  human  drama. 

The  outstanding  center  for  the  writing  and  production  of  folk  drama 
has  been  the  University  of  North  Carolina  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
late  Professor  Frederick  H.  Koch,  who  also  edited  representative  ex- 
amples of  the  work  of  his  school  in  the  four  series  of  Carolina  Folk-Flays 
(1922,  1924,  1928,  193 1 ).  These  are  mainly  short  pieces  presenting  re- 
gional superstitions  or  striking  historical  incidents  connected  with  the 
locality.  Like  apprentice  work  of  any  kind  many  of  them  are  imitative 


THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH  921 

of  theatrical  effects  elsewhere  familiar.  Thus  an  early  one-act  play  by 
Paul  Green  (1894-  ),  The  Last  of  the  Loivries,  produced  in  1920, 
is  a  clear  transfer  to  a  Carolina  setting  of  Synge's  Riders  to  the  Sea.  But 
Green  has  demonstrated  his  originality  in  a  variety  of  dramatic  romances, 
Negro  comedies,  and  tragedies  dealing  with  both  black  characters  and 
white. 

In  his  Lonesome  Road  (1926),  six  one-act  plays  dealing  with  Negro  life, 
may  be  found  the  germ  of  his  first  important  success,  In  Abraham's  Bosom 
(1927),  which  in  expanded  form  exhibited  the  tragic  struggle  in  a  man 
born  of  mixed  parentage  to  make  himself  an  intellectual  leader  of  his 
people  while  handicapped  by  an  uncontrollably  passionate  nature.  His 
disaster,  which  might  be  anyone's,  is  given  added  poignancy  by  its  associa- 
tion with  racial  issues.  No  one  has  excelled  Paul  Green  in  the  depiction 
of  Negro  psychology. 

He  is  also  aware  of  the  dilemmas  of  white  folks.  In  Fixings  by  Erma  and 
Paul  Green  the  authors  have  been  concerned  to  show  the  limitations  of 
opportunity  in  the  life  of  a  "tenant-farm  woman."  The  crushing  narrow- 
ness that  besets  a  powerful  personality  reared  among  the  farmers  of  eastern 
North  Carolina  is  the  subject  of  The  Field  God  (1927),  a  too  protracted 
and  wire-drawn  portrayal  of  the  irresistible  mating  instinct.  In  The  House 
of  Connelly  (1932)  Green  comes  at  last  to  the  inevitable  subject  of 
Southern  literature,  the  decay  of  a  genteel  family.  He  has  also  written  a 
historical  pageant  called  The  Lost  Colony  (1937),  commemorating  the 
first  settlement  on  Roanoke  Island.  The  Common  Glory  (1947),  written 
for  spectacular  outdoor  presentation  with  music  and  dance  and  a  verbal 
continuity  spoken  by  a  narrator,  is  a  pageant  of  the  Revolution  with 
Thomas  Jefferson  as  the  leading  character.  It  very  effectively  celebrates 
Virginia's  contribution  to  the  establishment  of  a  democratic  government 
in  the  New  World. 

In  the  commercial  theatre  the  mountaineers  of  the  southern  Appalach- 
ians have  provided  a  type  of  picturesque  irresponsibility  that  has  appealed 
strongly  to  sophisticated  audiences.  Various  aspects  of  their  folkways 
have  been  presented  in  Sun-Up  (1923)  by  Lulu  Vollmer,  and  in  several 
similar  plays  by  the  same  author;  in  Hell-Bent  for  Heaven  (1924)  and 
Ruint  (1925)  by  Hatcher  Hughes;  and  in  a  succession  of  imitations  of 
these  pioneering  ventures  which  have  lasted  down  to  the  present  (1948). 
An  Oklahoma  variant  by  Lynn  Riggs,  Green  Grow  the  Lilacs  (1931), 
has  been  transmuted  into  a  perennial  light  opera. 


The  Southern  tradition  in  poetry  has  from  the  beginning  been  deeply 
affected  by  classicism  and  has  placed  an  unhesitating  emphasis  on  form 
rather  than  on  content.  While  the  New  England  school  has  tended  to  see 
poetic  value  in  the  substance  of  a  poem,  Southern  poets  have  almost  in- 


922  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

variably  paid  a  high  regard  to  the  manner  of  a  poem's  making  and  have 
found  within  the  poem  itself,  in  its  structure  and  texture,  the  essence  of 
esthetic  value.  In  taking  this  attitude  thev  are  but  extending  the  South's 
instinctive  preference  for  strict  construction  from  the  field  of  constitu- 
tional law  to  that  of  belles  lettres. 

Since  Northern  literary  standards  have  generally  been  dominant  through- 
out the  United  States,  Southern  poets  and  critics  have  often  been  con- 
scious of  their  minority  status  and  have  manifested  a  sort  of  regional 
insurgency.  The  desire  to  write  poetry  of  an  order  different  from  that 
customary  in  his  day  was  not  infrequently  expressed  by  Sidney  Lanier, 
but  his  was  a  lonely  voice  in  his  generation.  Early  in  the  nineteen-twenties, 
however,  a  group  of  unreconstructed  Southerners  connected  with  Van- 
derbilt  University  at  Nashville,  Tennessee,  became  confederate  in  artic- 
ulateness  and  issued  briefly  a  monthly  little  magazine  known  as  The 
Fugitive  (1922-25).  Prominent  among  the  editors  and  contributors  were 
John  Crowe  Ransom,  Allen  Tate,  Donald  Davidson,  Laura  Riding,  Robert 
Penn  Warren,  and  Merrill  Moore.  The  group  as  a  whole,  though  impatient 
of  the  stock  sentimentalism  and  professional  Bourbonism  of  the  South, 
made  themselves  the  champions  of  a  regional  attitude  both  in  literature 
and  in  politics.  Many  of  them  contributed  to  the  agrarian  manifesto  called 
Til  Take  My  Stand  (1930),  which  violently  reacted  against  the  expanding 
industrialism  of  the  twentieth  century. 

A  radiant  center  for  the  Fugitive  group  has  been  supplied  by  John 
Crowe  Ransom  (1888-  ),  Tennessee  poet  and  Oxford  Rhodes  Scholar, 
who  since  19 14  has  held  positions  as  professor  of  English  at  Vanderbilt 
University  and  at  Kenyon  College,  and  has  latterly  edited  the  Kenyon 
Review,  one  of  the  best  of  the  little  magazines.  His  sixtieth  birthday  was 
the  occasion  for  an  extraordinary  manifestation  of  esteem,  both  from 
former  pupils  now  prominent  in  the  world  of  letters  and  from  literary 
colleagues  elsewhere.4  As  Allen  Tate  remarked,  "the  zeal  and  integrity 
with  which  he  has  explored  possibilities  of  an  Aristotelian  criticism  of  the 
poetic  disorder  of  our  age"  have  given  Professor  Ransom  a  special  niche 
of  distinction,  while  his  obvious  respect  for  a  frame  of  reference  imper- 
sonally arrived  at  and  his  exercise  of  a  beautifully  ingrained  courtesy  in 
human  relations  have  made  it  impossible  to  resent  the  vigor  of  his  criticism. 

As  a  poet  Ransom's  performance  has  been  confined  to  three  or  four 
volumes  published  within  a  decade  after  19 19.  Though  his  poetry  "has 
not  had  the  misfortune  to  be  fashionable,"  it  has  exemplified  a  considered 
density  of  phrase  that  has  won  it  a  high  degree  of  professional  admiration. 
The  poet  himself  has  chosen  his  best  work  for  his  Selected  Voems  (1945) 
with  a  rigor  which  has  transformed  excision  into  a  creative  act.  The 
general  theme  of  his  poetic  meditation  has  been  the  predicament  of  a 
divided  sensibility,  torn  between  reason  and  imagination,  science  and  faith. 

4  Seivanee  Review  (Summer,  1948). 


THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH  923 

Since  1930  Ransom  has  turned  to  criticism  in  the  successive  books,  God 
Without  Thunder  (1930),  The  World's  Body  (1938),  The  New  Criti- 
cism ( 1 94 1 ) ,  and  in  many  as  yet  uncollected  essays.  The  controlling 
principles  of  his  critical  thinking  are  best  expressed  in  his  paper  entitled 
"Criticism  as  Pure  Speculation,"  5  in  decisive  pronouncements  to  the  effect 
that  "the  business  of  the  literary  critic  is  exclusively  with  an  esthetic  criti- 
cism," and  "the  intent  of  the  critic  is  to  examine  and  define  the  poem  with 
respect  to  its  structure  and  its  texture."  In  the  pursuit  of  these  aims 
Ransom's  criticism,  and  that  of  the  school  he  has  fostered,  has  been  charac- 
terized by  an  exceptionally  close  scrutiny  of  the  text  and  by  a  searching 
investigation  and  analysis  of  critical  terminology.  If  it  has  sometimes  been 
excessively  linguistic  or  has  been  overrefined  into  "criticism  of  criticism 
of  criticism,"  its  stringencies  may  be  said  to  be  of  the  kind  that  human 
inertia  can  be  trusted  to  relax.  At  any  rate  the  influence  of  Ransom  and 
his  followers  has  been  tonic  and  has  resulted  in  restoring  poetry  to  the 
status  of  an  important  human  activity. 

In  recent  critical  essays  Ransom's  interest  seems  to  have  shifted  from 
the  linguistic  to  the  psychological  aspects  of  the  poem,  including  the 
study  of  its  uses  and  motives.6  This  widening  of  focus  is  thus  described: 
"But  I'm  now  asking:  what  is  the  poetic  interest  then?  In  other  words, 
what  is  the  human  concern  with  beauty?  And  I  can't  but  think  there  is 
an  organic  concern  with  beauty."  The  change  indicates  a  growing  aware- 
ness on  the  critic's  part  of  the  inadequacies  of  a  fixed  method  and  a  dis- 
position to  transcend  them. 

A  second  Tennessee  writer  who  has  steadily  grown  in  stature  is  Allen 
Tate  (1899-  ),  whose  wry,  acrid  poetry  has  something  of  the  flavor 
of  the  persimmon,  but  whose  critical  intelligence  is  of  a  high  order. 
Notable  among  Tate's  poems  is  his  "Ode  to  the  Confederate  Dead"  in 
which  he  decisively  frees  himself  from  the  sentimental  heritage  of  the 
subject.  A  reader  of  his  well- winnowed  Poems,  1922-1947,  which  includes 
the  essence  of  his  earlier  volumes,  quickly  discovers  that  Tate  is  not  inter- 
ested in  recording  his  personal  experiences  or  emotions  in  verse,  but  in 
building  poems  that  have  the  intricate  relevance  of  mathematical  dem- 
onstrations. His  "Seasons  of  the  Soul"  may  be  cited  as  one  of  the  dis- 
tinguished metaphysical  lyrics  of  our  time,  while  "To  the  Young 
Proconsuls  of  the  Air"  displays  his  marked  talent  for  dispassionate  satire 
at  its  best.  In  general  Tate  comes  at  his  subject  like  a  pack  of  dogs  worry- 
ing a  bear,  teasing  it  from  every  conceivable  angle  until  it  is  fairly  done 
to  death  from  exhaustion. 

Besides  contributing  controversial  essays  to  various  manifestoes,  Tate 
has  written  biographies  of  "Stonewall"  Jackson  (1928)  and  Jefferson 
Davis  (1929),  and  a  novel  of  prewar  Virginia,  The  Fathers  (1928).  His 

5  Donald  A.  StaufTer,  ed.,  The  Intent  of  the  Critic  (Princeton,  1941). 

6  Kenyon  Review  (Summer,  1947),  "Poetry:  The  Formal  Analysis." 


924  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

critical  papers  have  been  collected  as  Reactionary  Essays  on  Poetry  and 
Ideas  (1936)  and  Reason  in  Madness  (1941). 

Donald  Davidson  (1893-  )  remains  a  professor  of  English  at  Van- 
derbilt  University  and  the  regional  note  has  remained  strongly  dominant 
in  his  writing.  In  verse  he  has  produced  The  Tall  Men  (1927),  a  long- 
blank  verse  poem  contrasting  early  and  modern  Tennessee,  and  Lee  in  the 
Mountains  (1938),  short  narrative  poems  on  Southern  heroes.  In  the  same 
year  his  Attack  on  Leviathan  continued  in  prose  the  opposition  to  the 
centralization  of  economic  and  political  power  in  the  North.  One  of  the 
best  studies  of  American  rivers  is  his  volume  on  the  "old"  Tennessee.  He 
is  the  spokesman  of  the  region. 

The  impact  of  the  Fugitive  group  on  poetry  and  criticism  in  the  United 
States  has  not  yet  been  fully  developed,  but  it  promises  to  be  momentous. 
To  posterity  must  be  left  the  multitudinous  sonnets  of  Dr.  Merrill 
Moore  (1903-  )  and  the  poems,  novels,  and  critical  essays  of  Robert 
Penn  Warren  ( 1905-  ).  Fifty  years  hence  the  Nashville  poets  may  not 
impossibly  occupy  a  position  in  American  letters  comparable  to  that  of 
the  Lake  Poets  in  English  literature.  At  least  it  seems  a  safe  bet  that  each 
of  them  will  write  his  own  Biographia  Litteraria. 


Like  a  mountain  freshet  in  contrast  to  the  placid  streams  of  the  tide- 
water district,  Thomas  Wolfe  (1900-38)  came  out  of  Asheville,  North 
Carolina,  and  in  four  tumultuous  egocentric  novels  violated  every  precept 
that  one  would  expect  a  Southern  writer  to  follow.  Perhaps  the  fact  that 
his  father  came  from  the  North  into  a  subtly  alien  environment  may  in 
part  account  for  Wolfe's  marked  individuality,  as  it  may  also  have  sug- 
gested that  search  for  a  spiritual  paternity  which  is  one  of  the  more 
insistent  themes  of  his  formless  and  undisciplined  fiction. 

After  education  at  the  University  of  North  Carolina,  where  he  wrote 
and  acted  for  the  Carolina  Playmakers,  Wolfe  studied  under  Professor 
George  P.  Baker  in  the  "47  Workshop1'  at  Harvard.  He  then  taught 
English  at  New  York  University  while  preparing  for  the  first  lava-like 
outpouring  of  copy  from  which  a  selection  eventually  congealed  to  form 
his  first  novel,  Look  Homeward,  Angel  (1929).  Its  sequel,  Of  Time  and 
the  River  (1935)  continued  the  psychological  chronicle  of  the. struggles 
of  the  hero,  obviously  Wolfe  himself,  to  escape  from  the  web  of  time  and 
circumstance  to  some  firm  vision  of  permanent  things.  In  two  posthumous 
novels,  The  Web  and  the  Rock  (1939)  and  You  Can't  Go  Home  Again 
(1940),  Wolfe  changed  the  name  but  not  the  nature  of  his  protagonist 
and  partly  retraced  the  ground  already  covered,  adding  fresh  detail.  At 
the  end  of  hundreds  of  pages  of  intense  lyrical,  mystical,  and  at  times 
factual  prose,  the  hero  has  reached  the  perception  that  there  is  no  salvation 
in  a  return  to  ancestral  prescripts  and  that  the  only  escape  from  unsatisfy- 


THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH  925 

ing  and  confused  living  must  be  an  advance  to  new  solutions.  What  these 
solutions  are  to  be  is  nowhere  adumbrated. 

Wolfe's  fiction  may  be  briefly  characterized  as  a  combination  of 
Dreiser,  Joyce,  Lewis  and  Proust  rechanffee.  Though  the  brilliance  and 
intensity  of  certain  pages  can  hardly  be  matched  by  any  other  con- 
temporary novelist,  the  lack  of  structural  imagination  leaves  the  four 
books  a  turgid  and  frothy  mass.  The  merits  of  Wolfe's  work  are  probably 
more  apparent  at  a  first  reading;  its  defects  emerge  with  overpowering 
insistence  on  subsequent  reflection  and  further  acquaintance.  It  is  hardly 
likely  that  the  four  unwieldy  novels  can  long  survive  in  a  world  which 
has  proved  itself  too  difficult  for  dinosaurs. 


From  the  time  of  Poe  the  short  story  has  shown  itself  to  be  a  literary 
genre  particularly  suited  to  writers  with  an  instinctive  sense  for  form.  It 
has  been  notably  cultivated  during  the  second  quarter  of  the  twentieth 
century  by  women  of  Southern  origin,  who  have  explored  especially  the 
finer  shades  of  indirection  and  suggestion. 

A  past  master  of  stylistic  resonance  is  Katherine  Anne  Porter  (1894- 
),  a  native  of  Texas,  who  has  specialized  in  the  evocation  of  exotic 
atmospheres.  Her  first  book,  Flowering  Judas  (1930),  contains  (along 
with  others)  stories  with  a  Mexican  setting.  It  revealed  at  once  the 
author's  unusual  psychological  insight  as  well  as  her  power  to  fuse  all  the 
elements  of  fiction  into  impressive  tone-poems.  Hacienda  (1934),  a  story 
keyed  to  high  emotional  stress,  deals  with  a  Russian  motion  picture  com- 
pany in  Mexico.  Pale  Horse,  Pale  Rider  (1939)  includes  Noon  Wine,  a 
novelette  of  Texas  separately  published  two  years  earlier,  and  two  other 
stories  portraying  the  emotional  struggles  of  an  unconventional  Southern 
girl  at  the  time  of  the  First  World  War.  Several  other  episodes  from  the 
early  memories  of  the  same  heroine  form  a  part  of  The  Leaning  Tower 
(1944),  while  the  title  story  creates  a  grim  and  sordid  image  of  pre-Nazi 
Berlin,  a  capital  to  American  eyes  encrusted  with  a  repellent  patina  of 
decay  and  greed. 

It  would  be  inadequate  to  praise  Miss  Porter  as  a  writer  of  flawless 
prose.  She  has  created  an  instrument  of  marvelous  precision  to  register 
highly  sensitive  and  intense  awarenesses  of  life,  both  of  people  and  of  back- 
grounds. Her  writing  is  utterly  flexible,  undulant,  and  colorless  save  for 
little  iridescences,  like  some  transparent  marine  organism  that  one  can 
just  discern  in  a  glass,  almost  impalpable  but  palpitating,  and  somewhere 
in  its  secret  being  concealing  an  unsuspected  power  to  sting. 

A  second  writer  of  fiction  with  remarkable  powers  of  suggestive  char- 
acterization within  the  frame  of  a  regional  background  is  Eudora  Welty, 
born  in  Jackson,  Mississippi,  and  a  graduate  of  the  University  of  Wiscon- 
sin. In  such  books  as  Delta  Wedding  (1946)  Miss  Welty  exhibits  not  only 


926  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

her  intimate  knowledge  of  the  last  stronghold  of  Southern  feudalism  in 
the  United  States,  but  also  an  ability  to  trace  psychological  contours.  She 
resembles  and  at  times  surpasses  Miss  Porter  in  the  exquisite  delicacy  of 
her  effects  and  in  the  spice  of  malice  that  never  permits  her  to  lapse  into 
sentiment.  Like  Elinor  Wylie  she  delights  to  create  the  atmosphere  of  a 
place  and  period. 

Meanwhile  the  elusive  essence  of  Southern  gentility  pervades  the  wisely 
observant  and  tenderly  humorous  novels  of  Anne  Goodwin  Winslow, 
which  like  unruffled  pools  reflect  the  comings  and  goings  of  people  and 
the  landscape  of  the  soul.  After  a  book  of  poems,  The  hong  Gallery 
(1925),  Mrs.  Winslow  published  nothing  for  over  fifteen  years,  but  with 
The  Dwelling  Place  (1943)  she  commenced  a  succession  of  well-ripened 
novels  and  short  stories  that  have  given  her  an  assured  position  among  the 
fiction  writers  of  our  time.  Her  books  are  at  the  furthest  remove  from  the 
stridency  and  violence  of  much  recent  writing.  To  read  them  is  like  sitting 
down  to  a  quiet  conversation  with  a  woman  of  rare  culture  and  charm, 
who  recognizes  and  deftly  underlines  values  of  reflection  rather  than 
action,  values  that  are  only  apparent  to  minds  that  greatly  enjoy  function- 
ing. Her  style  is  austerely  elegant,  delicately  muted,  deeply  respectful  of 
the  old-fashioned  implications  of  words.  Here  for  those  who  know  how 
to  cherish  it  is  an  almost  incredible  survival  of  traditional  attitudes  never 
smirched  by  vulgarity,  an  evocation  of  modern  life  as  pondered  by  a 
thoroughly  civilized  mind. 

Many  of  the  writers  discussed  in  this  chapter  reveal  the  awakening 
energies  of  a  South  which  is  discarding  the  stereotyped  attitudes  formed 
in  the  post-Civil  War  era  and  resolutely  taking  part  in  the  artistic  appraisal 
of  twentieth-century  experience. 


Chapter  49 


VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA 

To  make  of  the  drama  an  instrument  capable  of  expressing  new  insights 
into  the  complexities  of  human  nature,  it  was  first  necessary  to  find  ways 
to  overcome  the  inertia  of  the  commercial  theatre.  Both  idealistic  and 
economic  forces  combined  to  effect  this  deliverance  early  in  the  second 
decade  of  the  twentieth  century.  Some  twenty  to  twenty-five  years  pre- 
viously "free"  theatres  devoted  to  experiment  had  been  established  in  Paris 
and  Berlin.  The  work  of  Ibsen,  Hauptmann,  Maeterlinck,  Shaw,  and  other 
new  playwrights  abroad,  once  it  was  known  in  this  country,  inspired  the 
hope  of  creating  here  a  comparable  drama  of  ideas.  The  efforts  of  Percy 
Mackaye  showed  the  possibility  of  breaking  down  the  conventions  of  the 
well-made  play,  and  the  success  of  Moody's  The  Great  Divide  seemed  to 
promise  a  new  form  of  native  popular  drama  that  could  be  respected 
as  literature.  Moody's  early  death,  however,  and  the  illness  of  his  logical 
successor  Edward  Sheldon,  author  of  Salvation  Nell  (1908),  The  Nigger 
(1910),  and  The  Boss  (191 1),  checked  the  hopeful  movement  for  almost 
a  decade. 

The  most  notable  writer  of  plays  during  the  interval  was  Rachel 
Crothers  (1878-  ),  who  began  by  expressing  a  blazing  indignation  at 
the  subjection  of  women  in  A  Alan's  World  (1909)  and,  less  effectively, 
in  He  and  She  (191 1).  Since  woman  has  been  given  the  vote  Miss  Crothers 
has  apparently  become  reconciled  to  the  immutability  of  social  laws, 
which  she  finds  productive  of  high  comedy  in  As  Husbands  Go  ( 193 1 ) 
and  of  genuine  tragedy  in  When  Ladies  Meet  (1932).  In  either  vein  her 
plays  are  constructed  with  superior  skill. 

Since  the  commercial  stage  was  slow  in  adapting  itself  to  experiment, 
the  development  of  new  techniques  occurred  for  a  time  almost  entirely 
in  plays  written  for  such  little  theater  groups  as  the  Playwrights'  Theater, 
the  Neighborhood  Playhouse,  and  the  Washington  Square  Players.  It  is 
to  be  noted  that  new  plays  were  seldom  attempted  outside  of  New  York 
until  they  had  first  been  approved  by  a   metropolitan   audience.   The 

927 


928  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

multiplication  of  little  theaters  in  the  provinces,  however,  was  stimulated 
bv  the  discontinuance  of  the  system  of  taking  commercial  hits  on  the  road 
to  give  one  or  more  performances  in  a  succession  of  local  "opera  houses." 
When  the  traveling  company  gave  place  to  the  silent  movie,  lovers  of  the 
legitimate  drama  in  outlying  cities  and  towns  had  no  recourse  but  to  set 
up  their  own  amateur  or  semiprofessional  troupes.  The  resultant  little 
theaters,  where  productions  could  be  mounted  at  relatively  small  cost, 
offered  an  ideal  field  for  the  performance  of  the  more  successful  experi- 
mental plays. 


Though  many  writers  eventually  contributed  to  the  enlargement  of 
the  drama's  scope,  the  spearhead  of  the  movement  about  1920  consisted 
of  the  work  of  one  man,  Eugene  Gladstone  O'Neill  (1888-  ).  He  was 
the  first  American  playwright  to  be  recognized  abroad  as  comparable  in 
importance  to  the  leading  dramatic  writers  of  England  and  the  Continent. 
His  plays  have  been  produced  in  every  European  capital,  not  always  as 
the  author  would  have  had  them.1  They  have  been  seen  in  Australia,  and 
at  least  one  has  been  translated  into  Japanese.  As  an  international  figure 
who  has  won  universal  recognition  for  the  extraordinary  force  of  his 
iconoclastic  plays,  O'Neill  was  appropriately  chosen  in  1936  as  the 
recipient  of  a  Nobel  Prize  for  Literature. 

As  the  son  of  a  veteran  actor,  O'Neill  was  practically  brought  up  in 
the  theatre,  so  that  he  instinctively  thinks  in  dramatic  idiom.  It  was  not, 
however,  until  he  had  read  intensively  in  what  Descartes  calls  "the  great 
book  of  the  world"  that  he  turned  seriously  to  the  writing  of  plays.  For 
five  years  following  1907,  when  he  left  Princeton  after  a  brief  contact 
with  higher  education,  he  picked  up  a  living  by  a  variety  of  casual  em- 
ployments, including  voyages  as  an  ordinary  seaman  to  Europe,  South 
America,  and  Africa.  His  experiences  in  the  forecastle  and  on  the  water- 
front gave  him  material  for  his  earliest  plays  and  a  sympathy  with  human 
down-and-outs  that  has  lasted  through  his  entire  career.  His  taste  of  hard 
life  also  led  him  to  question  the  assumptions  which  people  of  comfortable 
means  take  for  granted. 

Prolonged  and  desultory  knocking  about  landed  O'Neill  in  a  tuber- 
culosis sanatarium  and  gave  him  occasion  for  serious  reflection  during  the 
six-month  period  of  his  cure.  After  spending  a  year  at  Harvard  in 
Professor  Baker's  "47  Workshop,"  he  went  to  Provincetown,  Massachu- 
setts, where  his  first  one-act  plays  were  produced  by  actors  in  the  local 
summer  theatre   directed  by  George  Cram  Cook  and   his   wife,  Susan 

1  An  impressive  list  of  the  foreign  performances  of  O'Neill's  plays  to  1925  is  given 
in  Arthur  Hobson  Quinn,  Representative  American  Plays  (sixth  edition),  pp.  935-936. 
In  Anna  Christie  as  first  adapted  for  performance  in  Berlin  (1923)  the  heroine  shot 
herself.  In  The  Emperor  Jones  as  produced  at  the  Paris  Odeon  (1923)  the  dethroned 
dictator  was  vigorously  pursued  in  pantomime  by  a  band  of  avenging  tribesmen. 


VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA  929 

Glaspell.  For  some  time  O'Neill  remained  identified  with  the  Playwrights' 
Company  at  the  Provincetown  Theater  in  New  York,  but  later  transferred 
his  activities  to  the  Greenwich  Village  Playhouse.  Since  1928  his  plays 
have  been  produced  mainly  but  not  exclusively  by  the  Theater  Guild.2 

A  volume  of  apprentice  work,  five  one-act  plays  headed  by  Thirst 
(19 14),  was  published  with  financial  help  from  O'Neill's  father,  but 
attracted  little  attention.  Two  further  short  pieces  were  included  in  the 
series  known  as  Provincetown  Plays  ( 19 16).  Then  came  his  first  significant 
collection,  The  Moon  of  the  Caribbees  (1919),  a  group  of  seven  one-act 
plays,  all  but  two  of  them  dealing  with  sailor  life.  Here  O'Neill's  sense  of 
tragic  circumstance  attained  completely  effective  expression.  The  situa- 
tions are  simple:  a  sailor  watches  a  shipmate  dying  and  tries  to  cheer  his 
last  moments  by  pathetic  imaginings  of  the  life  they  had  planned  to  lead 
together  on  shore;  the  dour  captain  of  a  whaling  vessel  persists  in  his 
search  for  "ile,"  though  the  horror  of  cold  and  loneliness  is  driving  his 
wife  insane;  a  decent  lad,  revolted  by  the  brutishness  of  sailors  in  port, 
drinks  to  forget  his  memories  of  better  days.  Even  more  than  the  uncom- 
promising realism  of  dialogue  and  setting,  the  poetic  grasp  of  inexorable 
human  dilemmas  signalized  the  arrival  of  a  new  major  dramatist. 

O'Neill  was  to  write  many  plays  of  greater  complexity,  but  none  more 
purely  tragic  than  some  of  these  hrie£ffo«ipses-ef  life-stripped  to  its  bare 
e^senlials^Typical  of  the  group  as  a  whole  is  "The  Long  Voyage  Home," 
wherein  the  sea,  which  will  not  allow  the  sailor  to  return  to  the  farm  he 
longs  for,  symbolizes  the  crushing  force  of  a  universe  indifferent  to  human 
hopes.  Nothing  relieves  the  stark  and  bitter  unfolding  of  the  catastrophe. 
Here  as  later  O'Neill  has  steadily  rejected  any  reliance  on  traditional 
palliatives  of  the  human  lot.  Man's  defeat  is  utter,  whether  he  is  snuffed 
put  by  blind  chance  or  whether  his  own  inordinate  striving  to  realize  his 
desires  brings  about  his  undoing.  There  are  few  instances  of  external 
conflict  in  O'Neill's  plays.  The  material  of  his  art,  as  Sophus  Winther  has 
remarkedin  one  of  the  best  studies  of  the  dramatist,  is  generally  found  in 
"man's  struggle  with  the  shadowy,  indefinable  and  inevitable  forces  of 
life."  3  Often  the  unsuspected  antagonist  lurks  in  man's  inmost  being: 
"We  are  betrayed  by  what  is  false  within." 

It  has  often  been  asserted  that  a  simple  exchange  of  heroines,  Des- 
demona  for  Cordelia  and  vice  versa,  would  have  prevented  the  tragic 
blundering  of  both  Lear  and  Othello.  O'Neill's  first  full-length  play, 
Beyond  the  Horizon  (1920),  pictures  with  gripping  power  the  disastrous 

2  Not  all  O'Neill's  early  plays  were  produced  at  the  Provincetown  Theatre.  Beyond 
the  Horizon  was  brought  out  in  a  strictly  professional  way  by  John  C.  Wilson,  Anna 
Christie  by  Arthur  Hopkins,  and  The  Straw  by  George  Tyler.  Nor  has  the  Theater 
Guild  been  invariably  the  sponsor  of  his  plays  since  their  production  of  Marco 
Millions.  They  declined  Lazarus  Laughed,  which  was  first  put  on  by  Gilmor  Brown 
at  Pasadena,  and  again  in  1947  by  Fordham. 

3  Sophus  K.  Winther,  Eugene  O'Neill:  A  Critical  Study  (1934),  p.  56. 


930  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

consequences  when  two  young  men  are  assigned  destinies  for  which  they 
are  totally  unsuited.  Robert,  the  born  dreamer  and  romantic,  is  about  to 
gratify  his  longing  for  travel,  when  he  is  trapped  by  the  passion  of  his 
brother's  fiancee,  and  Andy,  the  home-loving  farmer,  takes  his  place  as  a 
wanderer.  Neither  brother  is  happy  in  the  life  that  has  fallen  to  him,  and 
Robert  in  particular  fails  dismally  both  as  a  farmer  and  as  a  husband.  Yet 
with-  his  confident  insistence  on  the  supreme  importance  of  illusions, 
O'Neill  allows  Robert  to  die  happy,  since  the  possession  of  the  dream  has 
in  a  sense  converted  it  into  a  reality.  The  play  is  further  humanized  bv 
the  unshaken  affection  of  the  two  brothers  and  by  the  unavailing  indigna- 
tion of  their  father,  who  tries  desperately  to  prevent  them  from  making 

their  tragic  mistakes. 
o 

After  Beyond  the  Horizon,  which  won  its  author  the  first  of  three 
Pulitzer  Prizes,  O'Neill  experimented  with  plays  mainly  of  two  kinds. 
Chris  Christopher  son  (1920),  later  rewritten  and  produced  as  Anna 
Christie,  was  the  first  of  a  series  of  naturalistic  tragedies  of  frustration, 
which  included  Different  (1920),  Gold  (1921),  The  Straw  (1921),  The 
First  Man  (1922),  and  Welded  (1924).  To  this  group  also  may  be  attached 
the  more  complex  and  powerful  All  God's  Chillun  Got  Wings  (1924) 
and  Desire  Under  the  Elms  (1925).  Concurrently  he  composed  his  bril- 
liantly original  dramas  of  symbolic  expressionism,  The  Emperor  Jones 
(1920),  The  Hairy  Ape  (1922),  and  The  Great  God  Brown  (1926). 
Somewhat  apart  from  either  group,  The  Fountain  (1925),  based  on  the 
story  of  Juan  Ponce  de  Leon,  afforded  an  outlet  for  the  irrepressible 
poetic  strain  in  O'Neill,  affirming  "the  Eternal  Becoming  which  is 
Beauty." 

Out  of  an  unsuccessful  play  about  a  Swedish  sailor  who  believes  that  his 
misfortunes  are  due  to  "dat  ole  davil,  sea,"  O'Neill  created  one  of  his  most 
penetrating  studies  of  character  by  shifting  the  center  of  interest  to  Chris's 
daughter  Anna.  The  opening  act,  set  in  the  waterfront  saloon  of  Johnny- 
the-Priest  where  old  Chris  is  nervously  expecting  a  reunion  with  Anna, 
who  as  a  little  girl  has  been  sent  to  an  inland  farm  to  protect  her  from  the 
sordid  influence  of  seaports,  is  one  of  the  most  authentic  in  American 
drama.  When  Anna  enters,  and  everyone  but  her  father  sees  at  a  glance 
that  she  is  an  experienced  prostitute,  the  playwright  effects  a  breath-taking 
but  perfectly  natural  reversal  of  expectations.  The  remainder  of  the  play, 
involving  the  not  quite  credible  regeneration  of  Anna  and  her  love  for  the 
gigantic  Irish  stoker  Matt  Burke,  fails  to  sustain  the  marvelous  actuality 
of  the  opening,  and  its  trailing  off  to  an  ambiguous  conclusion,  which 
O'Neill  described  as  "tragically  humorous,"  leaves  the  audience  perplexed 
by  a  conflict  of  emotions.  Here  for  once  O'Neill's  sense  of  character 
triumphed  over  his  instinct  for  dramatic  values— to  the  damage  of  a  fine 
play. 

Nothing  that  O'Neill  has  conceived  better  indicates  his  quality  than  his 


V1TALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA  931 

handling  of  the  tragedy  of  miscegenation  in  All  God's  Chillun  Got  Wings. 
He  simply  ignores  the  obvious  opportunities  to  write  propaganda.  The 
unavoidable  struggle  between  the  Negro  and  social  prejudice  he  subor- 
dinates as  far  as  possible  to  other  considerations.  The  tragedy  of  Jim 
Harris  is  the  tragedy  of  a  human  being  (he  happens  to  be  a  colored  man) 
who  is  intellectually  and  spiritually  superior  to  the  cheap  and  imperceptive 
creature  he  marries  (she  happens  to  be  white  and  hence  racially  above 
him).  Out  of  the  wreck  of  his  ambitions  Jim's  character  rises  in  touching 
lovaltv  to  his  wife,  whose  mind  has  given  way  under  the  strain  of  her 
position  and  who  now  fancies  that  she  is  a  child  again.  His  prayer  that 
God  will  "let  this  fire  of  burning  suffering  . .  .  make  me  worthy  of  the 
child  You  send  me  for  the  woman  You  take  away,"  brings  the  play  to  a 
close  on  the  level  of  high  poetic  beauty. 

Just  as  Jim  Harris  is  only  accidentally  a  Negro,  so  Desire  Under  the 
Elms  is  only  accidentally  a  play  of  New  England,  though  O'Neill  has 
taken  full  advantage  of  the  hardness  of  the  Puritan  in  his  masterly  de- 
lineation of  old  Ephraim  Cabot.  The  tangled  plot  of  the  play  presupposes 
certain  contradictions  of  character,  as  that  Abbie  Putnam,  the  greedy  and 
sensual  young  widow  who  marries  Ephraim  merely  to  get  his  money  and 
who  seduces  his  son  Eben  in  order  that  she  may  have  a  child  to  inherit 
the  property,  is  capable  of  falling  genuinely  and  passionately  in  love  with 
the  father  of  her  child.  O'Neill  seems  to  have  intended  to  evoke  a  poetic 
compassion  for  the  muddled  futilities  of  human  striving  and  the  inexorable 
involvement  of  men  and  women  in  fatal  webs  of  circumstance. 

Symbolic  expressionism  proved  on  the  whole  a  better  vehicle  for 
O'Neill's  purposes  than  naturalistic  drama.  The  Emperor  Jones,  a  land- 
mark in  theatrical  history,  departs  entirely  from  the  conventional  and  by 
brilliantly  unorthodox  devices  presents  the  psychological  disintegration 
of  the  main  character  under  the  pressure  of  nameless  fears  mounting  to 
blind  terror.  Brutus  Jones,  a  Negro  convict,  has  taken  refuge  on  a  West 
Indian  island,  where  he  has  made  himself  the  gaudy  dictator  of  the  simple 
natives.  When  his  subjects  finally  rebel  against  him,  he  has  only  to  follow 
a  trail  through  the  jungle  to  the  other  side  of  the  island  and  the  security 
of  a  French  gunboat.  But  on  the  way  he  soon  becomes  confused  and  panic- 
stricken,  circles  back  to  his  starting  point,  and  falls  a  victim  to  the  silver 
bullets  of  his  pursuers.  The  body  of  the  play  shows  in  successive  scenes 
the  visualization  of  individual  guilt  and  racial  dread  as  Jones  sinks  from  a 
braggart  emperor  to  the  lowest  level  of  abject  terror.  Except  for  the 
expository  scenes  at  beginning  and  end  the  drama  is  presented  through 
monologue  and  pantomime.  Never  before  had  the  conflict  in  man's  inner- 
most being  been  so  starkly  displayed. 

Tke-Hairy  Ape  has  often  been  interpreted  as  a  play  of  "social  sig- 
nificance," though  to  do  so  is  to  miss  O'Neill's  central  intention  and  to 
lessen  its  value.  Essentially  the  tragedy  of  Yank,  the  stoker  who  truculently 


932  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

discards  the  humanity  of  the  past  and  allies  himself  to  the  mechanical 
forces  which  rule  the  present  world,  is  a  tragedy  of  disillusionment.  The 
hairy  ape  cannot  stifle  in  himself  the  very  human  craving  to  "belong"  to 
what  he  admires,  and  his  disaster  lies  in  the  discovery  of  the  utter  indiffer- 
ence of  blind  force  to  the  men  who  serve  it. 

The  most  expressionistic  of  O'Neill's  symbolic  plays  relied  upon  such 
subtle  indications  of  shifts  of  personality  that  it  could  not  be  followed  by 
an  ordinary  audience.  The  Great  God  Brown  remains,  however,  one  of 
the  more  significant  documents  for  the  study  of  the  author's  mind.  The 
conflict  he  has  here  chosen  to  present  is  basic  to  much  of  his  thinking.  Of 
the  four  characters  in  the  play,  William  Brown  personifies  "the  visionless 
demi-god  of  our  new  materialistic  myth,"  a  successful  business  executive 
without  interior  resources.  His  friend  Dion  Anthony  (compounded  of 
Dionysus  and  St.  Anthony)  represents  "the  creative  pagan  acceptance  of 
life,  fighting  eternal  war  with  the  masochistic,  life-denying  spirit  of 
Christianity,"  and  is  successively  artist,  mocker,  and  saint,  the  changes 
being  indicated  by  the  masks  he  assumes.  Dion's  wife  Margaret,  later  the 
wife  of  Brown,  is  the  embodiment  of  simple  femininity  oblivious  of  every- 
thing but  her  urge  to  continue  the  race.  Cybel,  a  prostitute,  stands  for  the 
wise  Earth-Mother  who  understands  the  deeper  currents  of  life.  Through 
these  half  symbolic  figures  O'Neill  attempts  to  dramatize  a  parable  rebuk- 
ing the  materialism  of  our  time  and  affirming  the  mystery  that  lies  at  the 
heart  of  things.  The  ideas  somewhat  cloudily  projected  in  this  play  found 
more  adequate  expression  in  other  work  of  the  same  period,  the  most 
productive  in  O'Neill's  career. 

Lazarus  Laughed  (1927),  which  makes  almost  insuperable  demands  on 
the  actor  who  plays  the  title  role,  is  nevertheless  a  splendid  poetic  affirma- 
tion of  the  life  force.  Lazarus,  who  has  been  raised  from  the  grave,  knows 
that  death  is  not  annihilation  but  reunion  with  Eternal  Life.  Hence,  as 
one  exempt  from  mortal  fears,  he  cannot  be  dominated  by  Caligula,  who 
rules  by  exploiting  the  terror  of  his  subjects.  In  thus  transmuting  deter- 
minism into  a  magnificent  affirmation  of  life  O'Neill  has  answered  once 
for  all  the  critics  who  can  see  in  him  only  a  pessimistic  view  of  man's  lot, 
and  here  if  anywhere  he  has  justified  his  claim  to  be  considered  "a  bit  of 
a  poet."  Since  this  play  is  crucial  in  a  determination  of  the  quality  of  his 
later  plays,  it  is  important  that  his  own  statement  of  his  intentions,  as  given 
in  a  letter  to  Professor  Arthur  Hobson  Quinn,  should  be  given. 

The  fear  of  death  is  the  root  of  all  evil,  the  cause  of  all  man's  blundering  un- 
happiness.  Lazarus  knows  there  is  no  death,  there  is  only  change.  He  is  reborn 
without  that  fear.  Therefore  he  is  the  first  and  only  man  who  is  able  to  laugh 
affirmatively.  His  laughter  is  a  triumphant  Yes  to  life  in  its  entirety  and  its 
eternity.  His  laughter  affirms  God,  it  is  too  noble  to  desire  personal  immortality, 
it  wills  its  own  extinction,  it  gives  its  life  for  the  sake  of  Eternal  Life 
(patriotism  carried  to  its  logical  ultimate).  His  laughter  is  the  direct  expression 


VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA  933 

of  joy  in  the  Dionysian  sense,  the  joy  of  a  celebrant  who  is  at  the  same  time 
a  sacrifice  in  the  eternal  process  of  change  and  growth  and  transmutation  which 
is  life,  of  which  his  life  is  an  insignificant  manifestation,  soon  to  be  reabsorbed. 
And  life  itself  is  the  self -affirmative  joyous  laughter  of  God. 

The  complementary  question  of  the  quality  of  life  is  the  subject  of 
Marco  Millions  (1927).  The  Venetian  traveler  Aiarco  Polo  for  purposes 
of  the  play  is  here  identified  with  the  aggressive  commercialism  of  the 
West  as  it  impinges  upon  the  timeless  wisdom  of  the  East,  personified  in 
the  Kaan  Kublai,  his  counselor  Chu-Yin,  and  his  grandchild  the  Princess 
Kukachin.  As  a  philosophic  experiment  the  wise  Orientals  give  young 
Marco  a  free  hand  to  see  if  any  trace  of  soul  has  survived  the  blight  of  his 
upbringing,  and  the  demonstration  that  he  is  completely  impervious  to 
spiritual  considerations  and  incapable  even  of  human  intimacies  brings  the 
play  to  an  ironic  close. 

A  third  dramatization  of  spiritual  opposites  in  Dynamo  (1928),  in  this 
instance  the  conflict  between  old-time  religious  beliefs  and  a  vaguely  con- 
ceived worship  of  electricity  as  a  divine  force,  failed  to  come  to  life  in 
convincing  terms.  The  play  afforded  evidence,  however,  of  O'Neill's 
courage  in  attempting  a  subject  which  eluded  his  capacity  to  grasp. 

Meanwhile  he  had  scored  a  magnificent  success  with  a  bold  innovation 
in  technique,  the  revival  of  the  soliloquy  to  make  possible  on  the  stage  the 
presentation  of  "stream  of  consciousness"  passages  like  those  currently 
found  in  advanced  fiction.  This  device  lent  itself  readily  to  the  dramatiza- 
tion of  Freudian  concepts,  a  fact  of  which  O'Neill  took  full  advantage  in 
Strange  Interlude  (1928).  This  play  succeeds  by  interweaving  and  con- 
trasting the  outer  and  inner  lives  of  several  characters  in  sustaining  a  high 
level  of  dramatic  tension  for  nine  mortal  acts,  in  the  course  of  which  it 
minutely  explores  a  woman's  desperate  efforts  to  "compensate"  psy- 
chologically for  the  loss  of  the  man  to  whom  she  had  given  her  love.  Nina 
Leeds  herself  comes  to  feel  that  she  has  been  a  plaything  of  inscrutable 
forces;  that,  as  she  puts  it,  "our  lives  are  but  strange  dark  interludes  in  the 
electrical  display  of  God  the  Father."  The  novel  power  of  the  play  lies 
less  in  its  new  technical  devices  than  in  its  dramatic  conception  of  a 
woman's  instinct  for  fulfillment  as  a  force  which  will  not  be  denied.  Be- 
hind the  human  characters  we  feel  that  the  actual  protagonist  is  the 
Freudian  Id. 

On  the  wings  of  this  dramatic  perception  O'Neill  proceeded  to  revivify 
the  tragic  motifs  of  the  House  of  Atreus  legend.  Mourning  Becomes 
Electro.  (1931),  a  trilogy  like  its  classical  prototype,  brings  General 
Mannon  home  from  the  Civil  War,  as  once  Agamemnon  returned  from 
Troy,  to  be  murdered  by  his  unfaithful  wife.  Their  daughter,  Lavinia, 
making  a  confederate  of  her  brother,  effects  the  death  of  her  mother's 
lover  and  drives  her  distracted  mother  to  suicide.  The  brother  and  sister 
then  find  themselves  entangled  in  a  web  of  guilt  which  they  cannot  break 


934  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

through,  and  after  the  brother  has  shot  himself  in  despair  Lavinia  alone 
remains,  pinnacled  in  the  intense  isolation  of  her  brooding  devotion  to  the 
dead.  In  O'Neill's  treatment  the  psychological  consequences  of  guilt  are 
more  strongly  emphasized  than  its  broadly  ethical  significance.  The 
modern  mind  is  more  readily  led  to  wonder  at  the  abnormal  than  to 
cherish  the  normal.  Hence  in  the  revived  trilogy  horror  is  offset  only  by 
the  stoical  fortitude  of  Lavinia,  and  the  cumulative  power  of  the  plays  is 
lessened  by  the  inability  of  the  audience  to  establish  fellow  feeling  with 
characters  so  largely  composed  of  neuropathic  symptoms. 

As  if  he  himself  found  some  need  of  relief,  O'Neill  turned  to  reminis- 
cent comedy  in  Ah,  Wilderness  (1933)  and  to  meditations  on  the  craving 
for  religious  guidance  in  Days  Without  End  (1934).  Neither  of  these 
pieces  lies  in  the  central  stream  of  his  development.  They  were  succeeded 
by  a  long  interval  of  silence. 

In  1946  O'Neill  returned  to  the  theatre  with  The  Iceman  Cometh,  a 
strange  fusion  of  realistic,  psychological,  and  mystical  elements.  The  scene 
is  the  bar  of  a  decayed  New  York  hotel  owned  by  a  senile  ex-politician 
who  permits  the  place  to  be  overrun  by  a  swarm  of  human  nondescripts, 
derelicts,  and  crackpots.  All  of  them,  proprietor  and  guests,  cherish 
muddled  illusions  of  some  day  redeeming  themselves-but  not  until  they 
have  had  one  more  go  at  the  bottle.  These  comfortable  boozers  are  startled 
by  the  arrival  of  a  traveling  salesman,  whom  they  have  previously  wel- 
comed as  a  lavish  entertainer  and  the  life  of  the  party.  He  now  comes  as 
an  evangelist  with  a  new  message:  they  are  to  face  facts,  to  see  themselves 
as  they  really  are.  Under  the  compulsion  of  his  eloquence  they  are  driven 
to  admit  their  degradation  with  utterly  disastrous  consequences,  but  when 
it  appears  that  the  man  who  has  shattered  their  illusions  has  insanely  killed 
his  wife,  they  repudiate  his  teachings  and  happily  relapse  into  alcoholic 
self-deception. 

Magnificently  acted  as  it  was  in  its  New  York  production,  the  play, 
though  abnormally  long,  left  many  of  its  audience  with  a  sense  of  incom- 
pleteness, as  though  a  situation  had  been  given  a  run-around  and  dropped 
about  where  it  started.  It  may  be  that  O'Neill's  inability  to  clothe  his  plays 
in  poetic  language  lets  them  give  an  impression  of  bareness.  In  a  larger 
sense  it  is  clear  that  his  intentions  are  poetic,  since  with  all  his  modernness 
he  has  avoided  the  temptation  to  base  his  plays  on  resolvable  social  prob- 
lems and  has  steadily  fixed  his  attention  on  the  old  dilemmas  of  human 
destiny.  Possibly  the  cycle  of  nine  plays  dealing  with  an  American  theme 
on  which  he  is  now  said  to  be  working  will  carry  his  reputation  to  un- 
suspected heights.  He  has  dominated  American  drama  in  his  time. 


The  example  of  O'Neill  and  the  international  acclaim  that  his  work 
received  undoubtedly  stimulated  a  spirit  of  innovation  and  helped  to 


VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA  935 

create  a  demand  for  plays  of  literary  quality  and  intellectual  distinction. 
While  writers  for  the  commercial  theatre,  and  still  more  for  the  mush- 
rooming moving  picture  industry,  continued  to  grind  out  ephemeral 
entertainment  at  the  adolescent  level,  an  appreciable  number  of  play- 
wrights were  concerned  to  carry  on  the  search  for  ways  of  representing 
dramatically  what  one  of  them  has  well  called  "the  soul's  adventure  out  of 
sight  of  land." 

Philip  Barry  (1896- 1949),  author  of  the  phrase  just  quoted,  has  not 
succeeded  in  avoiding  some  of  the  pitfalls  that  await  the  serious  dramatist, 
but  among  plays  of  strikingly  uneven  merit  he  has  given  us  some  excellent 
social  comedies  and  several  searching  studies  of  characters  and  institutions. 
A  playwright  from  his  undergraduate  days  at  Yale,  Barry  produced  in 
Baker's  "47  Workshop"  his  first  perceptive  comedy  of  family  relation- 
ships, You  and  I  (1923),  in  which  a  father  who  has  stifled  his  own  ambi- 
tions in  order  to  marry  tries  to  prevent  his  son  from  making  the  same 
blunder.  This  early  play  showed  an  understanding  of  the  special  quality 
of  American  family  life  which  Barry  was  later  to  draw  upon  many  times. 

After  two  lesser  plays,  The  Youngest  (1924),  a  satirical  comedy,  and 
In  a  Garden  (1925),  a  supersubtle  play  based  on  intricate  emotional 
involvements,  he  conceived  a  bold  blending  of  fantasy  and  ironic  humor 
in  White  Wings  (1926),  a  satire  on  traditionalists  as  typified  by  the  Inch 
family,  who  as  street-cleaning  contractors  for  several  generations  have 
come  to  be  idolaters  of  the  horse  and  everything  connected  with  it  and 
consequently  hostile  to  the  automobile,  symbol  of  progress.  John  (1927), 
a  dramatic  rendering  of  the  story  of  John  the  Baptist,  was  a  failure,  but 
was  immediately  followed  by  the  brilliant  popular  success  of  Paris  Bound 
'(1927),  which  with  searching  analysis  defends  the  integrity  of  the  mar- 
fiage  relation  and  demonstrates  the  futility  of  divorce.  In  Holiday  (1928) 
he  pictures  the  revolt  of  eager  young  people  against  the  stuffy  conven- 
tions of  the  well-to-do.  With  Hotel  Universe  (1930)  he  commenced  a 
series  of  plays  delicately  combining  psychology  and  mysticism,  and  some- 
times threatening  to  fall  over  into  mystification. 

Hotel  Universe  presents  with  great  dramatic  effectiveness  the  wholesale 
redemption  of  a  group  of  damaged  souls  gathered  at  a  house  party  on  the 
Riviera.  Their  transformation  is  achieved  by  the  help,  partly  religious, 
partly  psychiatric,  of  a  wise  and  sympathetic  old  man.  In  its  choice  of 
theme,  though  not  in  setting  or  action,  the  play  loosely  anticipates  The 
Iceman  Cometh  of  O'Neill.  Played  without  a  lowering  of  the  curtain,  it 
marked  a  further  step  in  experimental  technique  as  well  as  a  reaching  out 
to  unhackneyed  subject  matter..  Psychiatry  mingles  with  dramaturgy 
likewise  in  Tomorrow  and  Tomorrow  (1931),  though  the  deeper  theme 
of  this  play,  as  of  The  Animal  Kingdom  (1932),  is  a  renewed  search  for 
what  is  most  intrinsic  in  human  relationships.  In  the  former  play  the 
heroine  discovers  that  her  desire  for  emotional  integrity  is  less  compel- 


936        '    THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

ling  than  responsibility  to  her  child,  while  in  the  latter  the  hero  finds  that 
he  is  more  genuinely  united  to  a  mistress  of  many  years  standing  than  to 
the  wife  he"  has  formally  married.  In  both  these  pieces  Barry  is  breaking 
away  from  stereotypes  long  established  by  dramatic  convention  abroad, 
and  is  showing  an  ability  to  draw  material  freshly  from  a  study  of  Amer- 
ican life. 

A^ain  in  The  Joyous  Season  (1934)  a  spiritually  assured  character,  in 
this  case  a  nun,  has  a  beneficent  influence  on  a  family  group  whose  hap- 
piness is  imperiled  by  resented  obligations  and  personal  inhibitions.  In 
Bright  Star  (1935)  a  pair  of  inherently  honest  people  are  unable  to  solve 
the  problem  raised  by  the  absorbed  husband's  inability  to  love.  The  pity 
excited  by  this  tragic  dilemma  was  perhaps  too  intense  to  permit  the  play 
to  succeed.  Here  Come  the  Clowns  (1938)  deals  somewhat  in  the  fashion 
of  Hotel  Universe  with  the  psychic  abnormalities  of  a  set  of  vaudeville 
actors.  Here,  however,  the  play  suffers  because  Barry  was  unable  to 
restrain  his  flair  for  metaphysical  discussion.  A  revulsion  from  unwar- 
ranted profundity  to  the  drama  of  character  and  humor  redeems  The 
Philadelphia  Story  (1940),  which  portrays  the  day  when  a  frivolous 
♦ociety  woman  discovers  the  realities  of  her  own  nature.  Liberty  Jones 
(1941),  a  partly  allegorical  drama,  and  Without  Love  (1943),  a  comedy 
with  topical  overtones,  demonstrate  the  soundness  of  Barry's  patriotic 
feelings  rather  than  his  skill  as  a  dramatist. 


Literary  inspiration  of  the  sort  evident  in  O'Neill's  rehandling  of  the 
Electra  story  may  be  said,  without  prejudice,  to  constitute  the  main  stock 
in  trade  of  Thornton  Wilder  (1897-  ),  born  in  Wisconsin  of  New 
England  parents  and  reared  partly  in  China.  A  generation  of  graduate 
students  might  be  kept  busy  tracing  his  "sources,"  both  acknowledged 
and  unacknowledged,  and  they  would  find  discreet  borrowings  from 
writers  as  diverse  as  Mme.  de  Sevigne,  Terence,  Fielding,  and  James 
Joyce,  to  name  only  a  few.  Wilder's  international  upbringing  and  his 
acquaintance  with  humanity  on  three  continents  has  enabled  him  to 
achieve  an  unusual  detachment,  which  he  has  further  cultivated  by  delib- 
erate intention.  Hence  he  has  declined  to  be  associated  with  any  coterie 
whatever  and  has  even  been  at  pains  to  flout  the  dictates  of  literary  fashion. 
A  law  unto  himself,  he  has  emerged  from  his  library  from  time  to  time 
with  an  urbane  and  highly  original  comment  on  his  perennial  theme,  the 
dignity  of  the  human  spirit. 

Though  he  has  always  written  plays,  Wilder  first  came  into  prominence 
as  a  writer  of  fiction.  The  Cabala  (1926),  a  group  of  connected  stories 
about  drawing-room  intrigues  in  Roman  high  society,  attracted  no  more 
than  nominal  attention,  but  its  successor,  The  Bridge  of  San  Luis  Rey 
(1927),  became  a  memorable  best-selling  novel.  The  book  cleverly  packs 


VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA  937 

the  life-stories  of  five  unrelated  persons  within  a  pseudo-philosophical 
framework  which  amounts  to  little  in  the  end.  The  individual  stories, 
however,  present  a  variety  of  genuine  human  dilemmas  with  telling  sym- 
pathy. The  Woman  of  Andros  (1930),  which  develops  the  more  wistful 
implications  of  a  comedy  by  Terence,  seemed  to  stamp  Wilder  as  a  re- 
furbisher  of  literary  wares.  As  if  in  answer  to  this  criticism  he  next  pro- 
duced in  Heaven's  My  Destination  (1934)  a  novel  dealing  satirically  with 
contemporary  American  society.  Since  it  did  not  follow  the  trends  of  the 
moment,  the  merits  of  this  highly  entertaining  and  spirited  work  have 
been  persistently  overlooked.  It  deserves  a  revival. 

In  1935  Wilder  formally  announced  his  abandonment  of  the  novel  in 
favor  of  drama,  giving  as  his  reason  the  restrictions  imposed  on  prose 
fiction  by  "the  editorial  presence."  Fortunately,  however,  he  has  not 
adhered  to  this  renunciation.  The  Ides  of  March  (1948),  cast  in  the  form 
of  imaginary  documents  bearing  on  the  personality  of  Julius  Caesar,  con- 
stitutes an  exceptionally  civilized  treatment  of  subjects  of  concern  to 
civilized  men,  such  as  religion,  statecraft,  love  and  marriage,  friendship, 
as  viewed  by  one  of  the  most  dispassionate  characters  in  history.  No  book 
of  its  year  has  been  more  provocative  of  fruitful  meditation. 

Meanwhile  Wilder,  who  had  previously  published  two  collections  of 
one-act  plays  and  had  adapted  several  full-length  European  dramas  for 
American  performance,  scored  a  conspicuous  success  with  Our  Town 
(1938),  which  was  awarded  a  Pulitzer  Prize.  Though  the  devices  of  a 
bare  stage  and  skeletonized  properties  vaguely  reminiscent  of  the  Chinese 
theatre  and  the  ubiquitous  presence  of  a  commentator  through  whose 
explanations  the  action  was  eased  or  oozed  into  motion  attracted  much 
attention,  the  real  power  of  the  play  arose  from  its  touching  presentation 
of  the  theme  of  life's  brevity  and  preciousness.  Its  appeal  is  as  simple  as 
daylight— and  as  strong. 

After  a  four-act  farce,  The  Merchant  of  Yonkers  (1939),  had  been 
produced  with  little  acclaim,  Wilder  was  inspired  by  repeated  readings  of 
Joyce's  Finnegans  Wake  to  write  a  dramatic  fantasy  on  the  destiny  of  the 
human  race.  The  Skin  of  Our  Teeth  (1942)  symbolizes  man's  precarious 
hold  on  the  planet  in  the  fortunes  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Antrobus,  and  probes 
more  deeply  into  human  nature  in  its  revival  of  the  story  of  Cain,  the  man 
of  violence  who  must  still  remain  a  member  of  society.  Critics  were 
puzzled  by  the  author's  intentions  and  some  were  moved  by  the  incidental 
foolery  of  the  play  to  doubt  his  sincerity.  They  dismissed  the  performance 
as  a  "cosmic  variety  show"  or  a  "morality  play  without  moral  ardor."  But 
in  so  doing  they  tended  to  miss  the  value  of  Wilder's  detachment.  What- 
ever one  may  think  of  this  play  there  can  be  no  doubt  of  its  author's 
importance.  As  a  civilizing  force  at  a  time  when  the  collapse  of  civilization 
was  threatened,  he  has  made  a  major  contribution,  though  not  a  spectacu- 
lar one.  His  unfailing  coolness  and  common  sense  have  steadied  the  nerves. 


938  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Hence  he  has  been  the  target  of  particularly  rancorous  attack  on  the  part 
of  Marxist  critics,  who  have  rightly  judged  that  should  Wilder's  type  of 
mind  prevail,  their  occupation  would  be  gone. 


A  third  writer  for  the  theatre,  whose  more  than  thirty  plays  in  three 
decades  have  brought  to  the  front  rank  of  living  dramatists,  is  Maxwell 
Anderson  (1888-  ).  Though  he  has  tried  his  hand  at  a  wide  variety  of 
dramatic  experiments,  Anderson's  most  convincing  successes  have  been 
his  tragedies  conceived  either  in  terms  of  stark  realism  or  in  a  mood  of 
historical  romance.  An  unusual  feature  of  his  technique  has  been  his  cour- 
ageous use  of  a  very  flexible  dramatic  verse  for  plays  of  both  descriptions. 
His  efforts  have  been  largely  responsible  for  the  revival  of  poetry  on  the 
stage. 

His  first  reputation  was  made  with  a  play  of  World  War  I,  What  Price 
Glory  (1924),  written  with  Laurence  Stallings,  which  presented  an  un- 
glamorous  and  highly  profane  view  of  war's  degradation  and  drudgery 
from  the  standpoint  of  the  professional  soldier.  In  Saturday's  Children 
(1927)  he  turned  to  the  domestic  theme  of  adjustment  in  marriage  for  a 
play  more  powerful  in  its  opening  than  in  the  conventional  reconciliation 
which  brings  it  to  a  close.  After  trying  a  topical  study  of  the  Sacco-Van- 
zetti  case  in  Gods  of  the  Lightning  (1928),  Anderson  more  successfully 
universalized  the  theme  in  Winterset  (1935),  which  in  haunting  verse  por- 
trayed the  hopeless  effort  of  a  son  to  run  down  the  actual  perpetrators  of 
the  crime  for  which  his  father  has  been  condemned  and  executed.  Few 
tragedies  of  our  time  have  more  wistfully  represented  the  tragic  futility 
of  a  fight  for  justice  in  the  face  of  overwhelming  doom.  High  Tor  ( 1936) 
with  its  combination  of  tragedy,  comedy,  farce,  humor,  poetry,  and  horse- 
play best  illustrates  the  unpredictable,  and  one  may  fairly  add  uncertain, 
quality  of  Anderson's  imagination,  which  threatens  at  times  to  romp  away 
from  his  prevailing  pessimism,  as  indeed  it  succeeds  in  doing  completely 
in  Knickerbocker  Holiday  (1928),  a  costume  romance  with  overtones 
of  satire  against  the  New  Deal.  In  Key  Largo  (1939)  Anderson  returned 
to  verse  and  to  the  brooding  hero,  in  this  case  an  American  volunteer  in 
the  Spanish  civil  war  who  has  failed  his  comrades  in  a  pinch  and  in  con- 
sequence suffers  from  a  gnawing  conscience  until  he  manages  to  free 
himself  from  his  psychosis  by  the  superheroic  courage  of  his  dealings  with 
a  mob  of  rum-runners.  The  Eve  of  St.  Mark  (1942)  creates  a  mixed  mood 
of  tragedy  and  mysterv  as  it  pictures  the  departure  of  a  young  recruit  to 
help  defend  the  Philippines  against  Japanese  invasion  and  his  sweetheart's 
telepathic  realization  that  he  has  gone  to  his  death  on  Bataan. 

After  several  unimpressive  attempts  to  find  dramatic  material  in  such 
historical  figures  as  Sir  Henry  Morgan  the  Buccaneer,  Anderson  dis- 
covered a  period  suited  to  his  genius  in  the  reigns  of  the  Tudor  sovereigns 


VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA  939 

of  England.  His  Elizabeth  the  Queen  (1930)  and  Mary  of  Scotland  (1933), 
both  in  verse,  stand  out  among  his  best  achievements,  though  their  solid 
merits  are  slightly  marred  by  an  occasional  floridity.  This  fault  Anderson 
was  able  to  overcome  in  his  later  historical  romances,  Joan  of  Lorraine 
(1946)  and  Anne  of  the  Thousand  Days  (1948),  which  offered  splendid 
vehicles  for  effective  acting. 

Anderson  has  written  a  thoughtful  essay  on  "The  Essence  of  Tragedy," 
which  with  nine  other  papers  on  various  aspects  of  stagecraft  has  been 
published  in  a  collection  called  Off  Broadway  (1947).  Intelligence  and  a 
passionate  devotion  to  the  theatre  joined  with  a  modest  talent  have  made 
him  liable  to  conceive  more  projects  than  he  is  able  to  carry  to  successful 
completion.  At  his  worst  somewhat  pretentious  or  somewhat  banal,  Ander- 
son can  be  on  occasion  relaxed  and  delightful.  He  has  contributed  at  least 
half  a  dozen  dramatic  masterpieces  which  will  be  remembered. 


Many  individual  playwrights  have  made  distinctive  additions  to  the 
theatrical  literature  of  the  last  two  decades.  Martin  Flavin  (1883-  ) 
deserves  mention  for  his  Children  of  the  Moon  (1923),  a  very  fine  super- 
natural play,  and  for  his  powerful  psychological  study  of  prison  life,  The 
Criminal  Code  (1929).  S.  N.  Behrman  has  been  an  unfailing  source  of 
comedies,  witty  and  sophisticated  though  at  bottom  artificial.  The  best  of 
his  many  plays  are  Meteor  (1929),  Biography  (1932),  and  End  of  Summer 
(1936).  Marc  Connelly  and  George  S.  Kaufman,  already  named  as  the 
creators  of  the  clever  comedy  Didcy  and  the  Negro  miracle  play  The 
Green  Pastures,  put  together  in  Beggar  on  Horseback  (1924)  one  of  the 
most  effective  dream  satires  on  the  excessive  regimentation  sometimes 
characteristic  of  highly  organized  business.  Kaufman  in  collaboration  with 
Moss  Hart  (1904-  )  then  produced  two  fantastically  funny  comedies, 
You  Can't  Take  It  With  You  (1936)  and  The  Man  Who  Came  to  Dinner 
(1939);  and  Hart  alone  went  on  to  write  Lady  in  the  Dark  (1941),  a 
rather  unusual  musical  play,  Winged  Victory  (1943),  one  of  the  best  war 
plays,  and  Christopher  Blake  (1947),  a  very  appealing  play  dealing  with 
the  effect  on  a  boy  of  his  parents'  divorce.  William  Saroyan  (1908-  ), 
whose  penchant  for  rhapsodic  sentimentality  has  placed  him  in  a  class  by 
himself,  gave  us  The  Time  of  Your  Life  (1939),  exploiting  wish-fulfill- 
ment to  the  limit.  Tennessee  Williams  (1914-  )  created  a  wistful 
psychological  fantasy  in  The  Glass  Menagerie  (1945),  and  in  the  very 
different  vein  of  A  Streetcar  Named  Desire  (1947)  proved  once  again  the 
validity  of  the  three-walls-and-a-passion  formula  for  a  successful  play,  or 
even  of  passion  alone  with  all  walls  down.  A  poignant  dissection  of  the 
moral  decay  that  commercialism  may  involve  was  dramatically  presented 
in  Arthur  Miller's  Death  of  a  Salesman  (1948),  a  play  that  made  use  of 
a  free  handling  of  time  to  underline  the  slow  sapping  of  integrity  which 


94o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

inevitably  results  when  a  false  ideal  is  pursued  by  a  person  of  exceptional 

ability. 

Besides  these  individual  successes  some  impressive  innovations  have 
sprung  as  much  from  the  introduction  of  compellingly  vital  themes  as 
from 'the  personality  of  playwrights.  A  new  liberalism  in  American 
drama  has  been  especially  marked  in  plays  dealing  with  the  heroism  of 
science  and  the  anatomy  of  politics.  Even  the  many  war  plays  of  the 
nineteen-forties  have  not  obscured  the  interest  that  these  two  topics  have 
roused  in  theatregoers. 

An  early  play  "turning  upon  the  special  duties  and  ideals  of  doctors, 
internes,  and  nurses  was  Men  in  White  (1933)  bX  Sidney  Kingsley 
(1906-  ),  a  tangle  of  love  and  professional  obligations  set  in  a  New 
York  hospital.  The  same  author's  The  World  We  Make  (1939),  a  drama- 
tization of  a  novel  by  Millen  Brand,  presented  the  cure  of  a  psychopathic 
girl  through  participation  in  the  life  of  the  poor.  A  clash  between  psy- 
chotherapy and  faith  in  miraculous  healing  furnished  the  substance  of 
The  First  Legion  (1934)  by  Emmet  Lavery  (1902-  ),  a  play  which 
has  been  translated  into  a  dozen  tongues  and  is  now  on  the  permanent 
repertoire  of  the  Comedie  Franchise.  Again  Sidney  Howard  (1891-1939), 
the  experienced  writer  of  They  Knew  What  They  Wanted  (1924)  and 
The  Silver  Cord  (1926),  shaped  a  stirring  drama  of  medical  research  out 
of  the  heroic  struggle  to  determine  the  cause  of  yellow  fever  shortly 
after  the  liberation  of  Cuba.  After  Yellow  Jack  (1934)  he  turned  to  a 
dramatic  consideration  of  a  general's  moral  responsibility  for  enforcing 
military  discipline  in  Paths  of  Glory  (1935),  and  at  the  moment  of  his 
untimely  death  he  was  at  work  on  a  play  dealing  with  the  life  of  Franklin. 
Possibly  the  vogue  of  medical  plays  owed  something  to  the  populariza- 
tion of  a  doctor's  career  in  Sinclair  Lewis's  Arrowsmith,  which  had  its 
day  in  the  movies  if  not  on  the  stage. 

The  theatrical  dissection  of  politics  began  lightheartedly  when  George 
Kaufman  with  various  collaborators  created  a  gay  lampoon  of  a  presi- 
dential campaign  in  Of  Thee  I  Sing  (193 1),  a  satire  on  revolutionaries 
in  Let  'Em  Eat  Cake  (1933),  and  a  general  travesty  of  the  Roosevelt 
administration  in  Vd  Rather  be  Right  (1937).  Not  since  Gilbert  and  Sul- 
livan had  the  pomposities  of  politicians  been  subjected  to  a  comparable 
fusillade  of  fun.  Meanwhile  the  strong  current  of  sentiment  in  favor  of 
world  peace  dictated  such  plays  as  If  This  Be  Treason  (1935)  by  John 
Haynes  Holmes  and  Reginald  Lawrence,  A  Woman  of  Destiny  (1936, 
Federal  Theatre  Project)  by  Samuel  J.  Warshawsky,  and  most  notably 
Idiot's  Delight  (1936)  by  the  capable  Robert  E.  Sherwood  (1896-  ). 
The  last  named  playwright  proceeded  to  win  a  second  and  third  Pulitzer 
Prize  for  his  Abe  Lincoln  in  Illinois  ( 1938)  and  There  Shall  Be  No  Night 
(1940),  a  play  commenting  on  the  Russian  attack  on  Finland  as  reflected 
in  the  attitude  of  a  Finnish  scientist  of  liberal  leanings.  In  The  Rugged 


VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA  94I 

Path  (1945)  Sherwood  rendered  an  honest  and  eloquent  report  on  several 
shortcomings  of  democracy  at  war. 

Two  other  outstanding  plays  inspired  by  the  conflict  with  Hitler  were 
Watch  on  the  Rhine  (1 941)  by  Lillian  Hellman  and  Tomorrow  the  World 
(1942)  by  Arnaud  d'Usseau  and  James  Gow.  The  first  pictures  the  moral 
dilemma  of  an  anti-Nazi  who  comes  to  the  United  States  in  the  vain  hope 
of  escaping  from  the  clash  of  ideologies  in  Germany;  the  second  deals 
with  a  small  boy  indoctrinated  by  Nazi  ideas  who  is  won  back  to  normal- 
ity by  contact  with  an  American  family.  D'Usseau  and  Gow  also  col- 
laborated on  a  highly  controversial  post-war  play,  Deep  Are  the  Roots 
(1945),  which  treats  sympathetically  the  plight  of  a  Negro  war-hero 
I  when  he  returns  to  his  home  in  the  deep  South. 

Significant  aspects  of  the  postwar  era  were  likewise  presented  by 
Howard  Lindsay  and  Russel  Crouse  in  State  of  the  Union  (1945),  a 
;  political  satire  built  around  a  crisis  in  the  career  of  a  presidential  aspirant 
somewhat  resembling  Wendell  Willkie.  A  background  of  Washington 
politics  and  society  and  the  biography  of  a  noted  jurist  were  combined 
in  Emmet  Lavery's  The  Magnificent  Yankee  (1945),  a  series  of  episodes 
jfrom  the  story  of  Justice  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes.  Garson  Kanin  ex- 
ploited the  confusions  of  the  national  capital  besieged  by  entrepreneurs 
I  in  the  amusing  piece  entitled  Born  Yesterday  (1945). 

None  of  the  plays  mentioned  can  be  said  to  have  supplied  any  assured 
guidance  amid  the  perplexities  of  a  crumbling  world,  but  they  dem- 
onstrated that  American  dramatists  were  exercising  a  healthy  faculty 
of  national  self-appraisal  and,  when  necessary,  of  reproof.  Moreover, 
when  one  looks  back  from  the  perspective  of  1950,  one  cannot  fail  to  be 
struck  by  the  advances  of  a  short  half  century  in  the  field  of  drama.  From 
a  narrowly  restricted  form  in  1900,  generally  controlled  by  box-office 
(prejudices,  it  was  broadened  in  every  direction  and  has  found  audiences 
ready  for  all  types  of  theatrical  literature.  Though  domestic  comedy 
remains  an  easy  favorite,  social  comedy  of  a  more"  intellectual  sort  has 
also  found  acceptance,  nor  has  the  public  shown  itself  averse  to  tragedy 
provided  it  is  not  illogical.  Our  people  also  like  their  own  history  when 
it  is  well  treated,  as  in  Kingsley's  The  Patriots  or  in  a  spectacle  like 
jGreen's  Common  Glory.  The  success  of  fantasies  like  Harvey  and  The 
\Skin  of  Our  Teeth  has  opened  still  another  vein.  Finally  it  should  be 
noted  that  practically  every  important  American  play  is  produced  in 
London,  and  many  are  translated  into  French,  German,  or  other  languages 
for  performance  on  the  Continent.  We  have  come  a  long  way  from  the 
time  when  a  playwright  like  Clyde  Fitch  could  spend  half  his  time 
adapting  European  light  comedy  for  the  commercial  theatre  and  when 
jthe  production  of  one  of  his  original  plays  on  the  English  stage  was  re- 
garded as  unusual  recognition.  The  American  drama  has  taken  its  place 
jamong  the  great  dramatic  literatures  of  modern  times. 


Chapter  50 


CROSS-CURRENTS 
IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  j 

Professional  philosophers  were  no  more  able  to  reduce  the  contempo- 
rary chaos  to  order  than  were  novelists  and  dramatists. 

During  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century  attitudes  and  techniques 
developed  in  the  field  of  biological  science  were  largely  extended  to 
cover  the  study  of  man  as  an  intellectual  and  emotional  being  and  man 
in  his  social  and  institutional  relationships.  Though  the  conflict  between 
religion  and  science  was  no  longer  acute,  except  in  certain  backward 
areas,  its  cessation  was  not  due  to  a  harmonious  adjustment  of  the  func- 
tions of  scientific  analysis  and  imaginative  synthesis  in  the  formation  of  a 
national  culture.  Rather  it  was  due  to  a  general  failure  to  appreciate 
the  essential  contribution  which  the  synthetic  disciplines,  poetry,  art, 
religion,  were  designed  to  make  toward  a  well-balanced  and  humane 
life.  While  the  channels  of  imaginative  energy  were  blocked  up,  large 
sections  of  the  population  remained  stagnant  in  the  helpless  materialism 
portrayed  with  deadly  accuracy  in  Sinclair  Lewis's  Babbitt,  and  the 
remedy  most  insistently  recommended  by  popular  guides,  Lewis  among 
them,  was  merely  the  substitution  of  supposedly  scientific  knowledge 
for  the  imperfect  wisdom  of  tradition.  Only  toward  the  end  of  the  period, 
and  under  the  stress  of  a  great  war,  were  there  signs  of  an  awakening 
to  the  perception  that  men  live  in  terms  of  symbols,  and  if  the  symbol- 
making  powers  of  his  nature  are  not  cultivated,  the  result  will  be,  not 
the  liberation,  but  the  atrophy  of  his  being. 

A  minor  effect  of  the  overemphasis  on  analytic  attitudes  was  an  in- 
creasing narrowness  of  intellectual  activity,  which  tended  to  be  more 
and  more  directed  toward  specialization  and  to  find  expression  in  techni- 
cal reports  rather  than  in  large-minded  syntheses  of  experience.  Few 
thoughtful  writers,  moreover,  felt  any  special  obligation  to  give  much 
attention  to  the  problem  of  form  when  they  offered  the  public  the  fruits 

942 


CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  943 

of  their  cogitation.  There  was  even  a  fairly  widespread  conviction  that 
concern  with  form  argued  a  lack  of  seriousness,  and  that  only  a  dandified 
mind  would  bother  about  the  dress  in  which  ideas  appeared.  Conse- 
quently such  books  as  Henry  Adams's  Mont  Saint  Michel  and  Chartres 
(191 3)  and  The  Education  of  Henry  Adams  (19 18)  stood  out  like 
survivals  from  a  classical  period  in  a  barbaric  age.  In  public  life  also  the 
rise  to  high  office  of  a  thoroughly  literate  statesman  like  Woodrow 
Wilson  was  altogether  exceptional. 

For  the  time  being  the  control  over  nature  made  possible  by  the  great 
advances  of  science  was  so  dazzling  that  the  cultivation  of  the  imagina- 
tion as  an  agencv  for  elevating  human  life  above  the  brute  level  was 
seriously  neglected.  The  unbalance  was  as  complete  as  the  opposite  un- 
balance of  the  medieval  period,  when  the  findings  of  analytic  reason  could 
not  get  a  hearing.  Some  observers  even  predicted  the  approach  of  a 
new  Dark  Ages. 

A  second  condition  of  intellectual  life  in  the  United  States  during  this 
period  was  the  large  measure  of  influence  exercised  by  European  thinkers. 
The  American  mind  (if  one  may  risk  a  generalization)  prided  itself  on 
being  thoroughly  cosmopolitan,  and  following  a  long-established  habit 
tended  to  look  for  guidance  abroad.  A  British  historian,  French  philoso- 
pher, Viennese  psychologist,  or  Norwegian  mystic  enjoyed  a  prestige  in 
this  country  which  was  seldom  accorded  to  native  figures  of  equivalent 
stature.  The  foreign  influences  which  had  an  appreciable  effect  on  Ameri- 
can thought  during  the  period  were  of  a  highly  diverse  kind,  but  their 
cumulative  force  tended  to  break  down  intellectual  structures  and 
standards  inherited  from  the  previous  century  and  to  produce  a  chaos 
of  convictions  in  which  there  was  nothing  to  impede  the  leadings  of  op- 
portunism. It  will  perhaps  suffice  to  mention  the  names  of  Darwin,  Marx, 
Nietzsche,  Bergson,  Croce,  Freud,  Einstein,  and  Kierkegard  to  suggest 
the  multifarious  and  unreconcilable  doctrines,  all  making  claim  to  au- 
thority, which  contributed  a  colorful  confusion  to  the  hodgepodge  of 

the  national  mind. 

#         *         # 

About  1900  American  philosophical  thought  was  largely  concentrated 
in  Harvard  Yard,  where  Josiah  Royce,  William  James,  George  Herbert 
Palmer,  George  Santayana,  and  Hugo  Munsterberg  were  the  leaders  of  a 
department  which  agreed  in  nothing  but  willingness  to  disagree.  The 
theory  of  operation  was  candidly  avowed  in  a  letter  from  James  to  Palmer, 
April  2,  1900: 

If  our  students  now  could  begin  really  to  understand  what  Royce  means  with 
his  voluntaristic-pluralistic  monism,  what  Munsterberg  means  with  his  dualistic 

scientificism  and  platonism ,  what  I  mean  by  my  crass  pluralism,  what 

you  mean  by  your  ethereal  idealism,  that  these  are  so  many  religions,  ways 


944  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

of  fronting  life,  and  worth  fighting  for,  we  should  have  a  genuine  philosophic 

universe  at  Harvard The  world  might  ring  with  the  struggle,  if  we  devoted 

ourselves  exclusively  to  belaboring  each  other.1 

Perhaps  there  have  been  more  penetrating  conceptions  of  philosophical 
systems  than  as  so  many  "ways  of  fronting  life,"  and  more  dynamic 
principles  on  which  to  organize  a  philosophic  school  than  that  of  a  box 
of  monkeys;  but  James's  attitude,  perfectly  characteristic  of  the  man, 
was  equally  symptomatic  of  the  lack  of  any  central  conviction  in  Ameri- 
can thought.  During  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century  the  winds 
of  doctrine  completely  boxed  the  compass  from  idealism  to  naturalism 
and  back  to  a  rehabilitated  idealism.  Whether  the  movement  of  mind 
was  like  that  of  a  man  lost  in  the  woods  who  insensibly  circles  back  to 
his  starting  point,  or  like  that  of  an  airplane  which  attains  altitude  by 
successive  spirals,  might  be  subject  for  interminable  debate. 

Not  all  the  Harvard  professors  of  philosophy  have  a  place  in  the  history 
of  literature.  Palmer  earned  a  small  niche  by  his  Greek  and  English 
scholarship  which  produced  a  readable  translation  of  Homer's  Odyssey 
and  a  standard  edition  of  the  seventeenth-century  poet  George  Herbert; 
also  by  his  Life  of  Alice  Freeman  Palmer  (1908),  best  known  of  the 
earlier  presidents  of  Wellesley  College,  and  by  his  own  Autobiography 
of  a  Philosopher  ( 1930).  Miinsterberg  made  his  chief  contributions  within 
the  field  of  experimental  psychology.  Royce,  James,  and  Santayana,  how- 
ever, wrote  books  of  decided  literary  quality  quite  apart  from  their 
value  as  philosophy. 

If  the  name  of  John  Dewey  is  added  to  those  of  the  three  Harvard 
professors  last  mentioned,  the  sequence  may  be  taken  to  represent  suc- 
cessive steps  in  an  effort  to  harmonize  American  thinking  with  the  ob- 
servable phenomena  of  American  experience.  This  operation  was  long- 
overdue.  From  the  time  of  Jonathan  Edwards,  at  least,  if  not  from  that 
of  the  earliest  Puritan  migrations,  it  has  been  not  uncommon  for  Ameri- 
cans to  profess  allegiance  to  a  purely  ideal  system  of  beliefs  while 
relying  on  a  totally  different  set  of  values  as  a  basis  for  action.  Neither 
Calvinistic  theology  nor  Transcendental  theory  gave  adequate  attention 
to  the  facts  of  life,  but  neither  was  immediately  rejected  on  that  account. 
As  compared  with  other  peoples  in  the  long  view  of  history  Americans 
have  been  notable,  if  not  unique,  for  their  readiness  to  retain  official 
philosophies  after  their  relevance  to  anything  that  mattered  has  disap- 
peared. For  some  two  centuries  the  hopeless  struggle  to  bring  practice 
up  to  the  level  of  arbitrary  principle  continued.  Then  the  idea  that 
philosophy  should  be  rooted  in  a  candid  analysis   of  reality  belatedly 

came  to  the  fore. 

*         *         # 

1  Henry  James,  ed.,  Letters  of  William  James  (Boston,  1920),  Vol.  2,  p.  122.  (Used 
by  permission  of  Paul  R.  Reynolds  and  son). 


CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  945 

The  powerfully  speculative  mind  of  Josiah  Royce  (1855-1916)  reacted 
against  the  narrowness  of  religious  and  academic  dogma  as  he  en- 
countered it  in  the  California  of  his  boyhood,  yet  some  rags  and  tatters 
of  Calvinistic  and  Transcendental  idealism  clung  to  him  at  the  end.  As 
an  advanced  student  in  Germany  and  at  Johns  Hopkins  he  immersed 
himself  in  the  romantic  philosophy  of  Kant,  Hegel,  and  Fichte,  oblivious 
of  the  fact  that  their  thinking  was  responsive  to  the  dynamic  flux  of 
European  society  and  had  no  organic  connection  with  the  intellectual  life 
of  a  pioneer  nation  across  the  Atlantic.  As  a  result  Royce  came  to  re- 
semble certain  American  painters  of  his  period  whose  training  abroad 
so  accustomed  them  to  painting  Normandy  poplars  that  they  could  never 
work  into  their  compositions  the  actual  forms  of  native  maples,  elms, 
and  chestnuts. 

Yet  Royce  had  initially  a  deep  feeling  for  his  background,  as  evinced 

by  two   early  books,   California A   Study   of  American   Character 

(1886)  and  The  Feud  of  Oakfield  Creek  (1887),  a  novel.  But  with  The 
Religious  Aspect  of  Philosophy  (1885)  he  had  already  commenced  a 
series  of  attempted  proofs  of  the  essential  oneness  at  the  heart  of  things, 
proofs  which  demonstrated  the  dexterity  of  the  reasoner  more  than  the 
cogency  of  his  reasons.  His  wrestlings  with  metaphysics,  though  agonis- 
tically  impressive,  left  him  baffled.  After  1900  Royce  devoted  himself 
chiefly  to  problems  of  technical  logic  and  the  application  of  his  philo- 
jsophical  assumptions  to  specific  moral  issues.  Among  his  later  books 
The  Philosophy  of  Loyalty  (1908)  and  The  Hope  of  the  Great  Com- 
munity (1916)  may  stand  as  examples  of  Royce's  effort  to  adapt  to 
American  culture  principles  derived  from  foreign  sources.  Both  books 
announced  doctrines  which  could  thrive  better  in  Germany  than  in  the 
United  States.  It  was  impossible  to  validate  in  American  experience, 
which  was  incurably  individualistic,  the  profound  German  sense  of  the 
necessary  integration  of  the  individual  will  with  some  ecstatically  hy- 
postatized  greater  entity  such  as  the  state.  Where  no  need  of  the  sort 
is  felt,  an  argument  which  assumes  the  existence  of  the  need  is  ineffectual. 
Santayana,  at  the  close  of  a  brilliant  and  devastating  analysis  of  Royce's 
thinking,  has  suggested  that  he  was  perhaps  best  fitted  to  become  a  great 
musician,  since  the  complexity,  repetitions,  vagueness,  and  endlessness 
that  mar  his  philosophic  writings  might  in  music  "have  swelled  and 
swelled  into  a  real  sublimity."  What  distinguished  Royce  was  not  keen- 
ness of  intellect  but  an  emotional  craving  for  intellectual  light.  "His  was 
a  gothic  and  scholastic  spirit,"  Santayana  concluded,  "intent  on  devising 
and  solving  puzzles,  and  honouring  God  in  systematic  works,  like  the 
coral  insect  or  the  spider;  eventually  creating  a  fabric  that  in  its  homely 
intricacy  and  fulness  arrested  and  moved  the  heart,  the  web  of  it  was 
so  vast,  and  so  full  of  mystery  and  yearning."  2 

2  G.  Santayana,  Character  and  Opinion  in  the  United  States  (1920),  p.  138. 


946  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Though  William  James  (1842-1910)  was  an  older  man  than  Royce, 
his  temper  of  mind  was  notably  more  modern.  But  if  he  formulated  a 
philosophy  which  suited  the  needs  of  aggressive  American  capitalists, 
as  has  often  been  claimed,  it  was  by  accident,  not  by  intention.  He  was 
a  true  cosmopolitan,  almost  as  much  detached  from  the  American  scene 
as  his  brother  Henry  the  novelist.  The  identification  of  his  thought  with 
certain  dominant  tendencies  of  his  time  was  largely  due  to  factors  in  his 
personal  life  which  paralleled  the  general  experience  of  his  contempo- 
raries. One  of  the  most  important  of  these  factors  was  James's  approach 
to  philosophy  by  way  of  biological  science. 

As  the  son  of  a  Swedenborgian  thinker  and  as  a  pupil  of  the  painter 
W.  M.  Hunt,  James  was  made  aware  of  the  reality  and  importance  of 
religion  and  the  arts.  The  decisive  direction  of  his  studies,  however,  was 
scientific,  though  his  acquaintance  with  Agassiz  at  first  made  him  see 
"how  a  naturalist  could  feel  about  his  trade  in  the  same  way  that  an  artist 
does  about  his.1'  From  physiology  he  was  led  to  psychology,  and  only 
during  the  last  decade  of  his  professional  life  was  he  primarily  concerned 
with  philosophic  problems.  Though  he  envisaged  a  systematic  develop- 
ment of  what  he  called  his  radical  empiricism,  he  only  lived  to  complete 
the  statement  of  a  methodology  in  Pragmatism  (1907)-  The  further  ex- 
tensions of  his  thought  were  barely  indicated  in  lectures  and  essays  pub- 
lished after  his  death.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  doctrine  of  prag- 
matism, which  he  owed  in  large  measure  to  Charles  S.  Peirce,  was  not 
the  sum  of  James's  philosophy,  as  is  usually  assumed,  but  only  "the  be- 
ginning of  an  introduction"  to  it. 

°  Much  of  James's  writing  took  the  form  of  public  lectures  or  occasional 
articles.  He  did,  however,"produce  one  monumental  work,  The  Principles 
of  Psychology  (1890),  in  the  making  of  which  he  labored  for  more 
than  a  dozen  years.  Soon  after  its  publication  he  wrote  to  his  brother 
Henry:  "As  'Psychologies'  go,  it  is  a  good  one,  but  psychology  is  in 
such  an  ante-scientific  condition  that  the  whole  present  generation  of 
them  is  predestined  to  become  unreadable  old  medieval  lumber,  as  soon 
as  the  first  genuine  tracks  of  insight  are  made.  The  sooner  the  better, 
for  me!"  3  The  fate  which  he  predicted  has  not  overtaken  his  Psychology. 
It  still  remains  a  classic  in  its  field,  though  the  investigations  of  later  re- 
search workers  have  carried  the  frontiers  of  the  science  far  beyond 
what  they  were  in  his  day. 

Among  James's  later  books  the  best  known  are  The  Will  to  Believe 
(1897),  in  which  he  asserts  the  need  to  accept  hypotheses  which  are  not 
susceptible  of  experimental  proof;  The  Varieties  of  Religious  Experience 
(1902),  a  survey  of  religious  impulses  in  the  psychological  clinic;  Prag- 
matism  (1907),  the  much  discussed  and  highly  influential  statement  of  his 
application  of  laboratory  techniques  to  the  testing  of  ideas  by  their  con- 
a  Letters  of  William  J a?nes,  Vol.  1,  p.  296. 


CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  947 

sequences  in  feeling  and  action;  and  A  Pluralistic  Universe  (1909),  a 
later  formulation  of  his  metaphysical  position  in  a  series  of  lectures  de- 
livered at  Oxford.  The  gift  of  phrase  and  racy  illustration  which  dis- 
tinguishes everything  he  wrote  is  best  exhibited  in  his  Letters  (1920), 
edited  by  his  son  Henry. 

A  third  member  of  the  Harvard  faculty  of  philosophy,  George 
Santayana  (1863-  ),  as  a  representative  of  an  old  Latin  culture  and  a 
nominal  Roman  Catholic  has  preserved  an  amused  detachment  from  the 
hot  clashes  of  opinion  in  the  United  States,  or  if  he  has  condescended 
to  take  part  in  the  battle,  has  delivered  a  telling  stroke  and  departed  like 
the  inhabitant  of  some  remote  Olympus.  Born  in  Madrid  of  Spanish 
parents,  he  was  brought  to  Boston  at  the  age  of  nine  and  was  educated 
at  the  Boston  Latin  School  and  Harvard  with  postgraduate  study  in 
Germany  and  England.  From  1890  to  191 2  he  resigned  himself  to  teach- 
ing classes  in  philosophy,  but  at  the  earliest  possible  moment  he  retired 
from  academic  life  to  make  his  home  successively  in  France,  England, 
and  Italy.  Though  eminently  a  citizen  of  the  Old  World  and  a  Spanish 
national,  Santayana  has  always  written  in  English  and  his  books  have 
been  addressed  primarily  to  an  American  audience. 

Beginning  as  a  poet  and  a  writer  on  aesthetics  in  the  middle  nineties, 
he  has  achieved  two  notable  formulations  of  his  philosophy,  each  in  five 
volumes.  The  Life  of  Reason  (1905-6)  may  be  characterized  briefly  as 
a  historical  survey  of  the  manifestations  of  human  intelligence  in  society, 
religion,  art,  and  science.  As  a  fundamental  postulate  Santayana  accepts 
matter  as  the  only  reality,  and  so  bases  his  system  on  a  naturalism  agree- 
able to  common  sense.  But  man's  response  to  reality  has  taken  the  form 
of  institutions,  myths,  aesthetic  projections,  and  mental  concepts,  which 
though  ephemeral  and  illusory,  are  still  the  values  by  which  we  live. 
These  values  he  discusses  with  great  power  of  comprehension,  even  when 
they  are  not  values  which  he  himself  finds  useful. 

In  1923  Skepticism  and  Animal  Faith  inaugurated  a  restatement  and 
modification  of  Santayana's  position,  which  he  completed  in  the  four 
volumes  collectively  entitled  The  Realms  of  Being  (1927-40).  Skepticism 
pushed  to  a  logical  extreme  is  forced  to  the  conclusion  that  "nothing 
given  exists,"  but  animal  faith  robustly  insists  on  believing  in  a  world 
unknowable  in  its  intrinsic  nature  but  nevertheless  a  theatre  of  action 
and  suffering.  Material  events  arouse  mental  reflections  or  intuitions, 
which  taken  as  a  whole  constitute  the  "realm  of  essence."  The  dynamic 
flow  of  experience,  "this  drift  of  sensations,  passions,  and  ideas,  perpetu- 
ally kindled  and  fading  in  the  light  of  consciousness,"  Santayana  calls  the 
"realm  of  spirit."  The  stored  accumulation  of  intuitions,  "frozen  history" 
or  the  substance  of  civilized  cultures,  he  designates  as  the  "realm  of 
truth."  Matter,  essence,  spirit,  and  truth,  then,  are  the  four  categories  of 
his  final  philosophy. 


948  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

By  combining  in  a  single  system  idealistic  values  drawn  from  Plato 
and  Spinoza  with  a  complete  acceptance  of  naturalism  and  a  skepticism 
that  outdoes  Schopenhauer,  Santayana  greatly  annoyed  colleagues  who 
demanded  consistency  as  a  first  constituent  of  a  philosophic  reading  of 
life.  William  James,  though  delighting  in  the  "thickening  up  of  our 
Harvard  atmosphere,"  nevertheless  exclaimed  after  going  through  one 
of  Santayana's  earlier  books,  "what  a  perfection  of  rottenness  in  a 
philosophy!"  Santayana  in  fact  assumed  a  position  which  permitted  him 
to  derive  all  the  advantages  of  idealism  and  to  escape  all  its  liabilities.  This 
duplicity,  however  infuriating  to  rigorous  thinkers,  makes  possible  the 
precarious  balance,  the  constant  alertness  of  sensibility,  in  a  word  the 
tension  favorable  to  artistic  creation.  As  a  poet  by  temperament  San- 
tayana may  be  grouped  with  Edward  Fitzgerald,  the  translator  of  Omar 
Khayyam,  and  with  E.  A.  Robinson.  Like  them,  and  like  Walter  Pater 
in  prose,  he  is  the  master  of  an  exquisite  and  richly  cadenced  style. 

Though  memorable  "little  essays"  may  be  extracted  from  Santayana's 
major  works,  as  Logan  Pearsall  Smith  has  demonstrated,  he  will  prob- 
ably live  in  literature  by  virtue  of  his  occasional  excursions  into  belles 
lettres,  criticism,  and  social  history.  His  Poems,  collected  finally  in  1923 
but  mainly  written  and  published  in  the  nineties,  are  deliberately  com- 
posed in  a  minor  key  but  with  unusual  smoothness  and  grace.  His  one 
novel,  The  Last  Puritan  (1935),  contrasting  with  wit  and  malice  an  in- 
hibited New  Englander  and  an  expressive  young  hedonist  of  Latin  stock, 
testifies  to  Santayana's  alienation  from  the  leading  cultural  tradition  of 
America  and  indeed  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  race.  It  is  important  as  giving 
concrete  externalization  to  some  aspects  of  his  philosophy.  As  a  critic 
he  is  best  represented  by  Interpretations  of  Poetry  and  Religion  (1900), 
Three  Philosophical  Poets  (1910),  and  Winds  of  Doctrine  (1913)-  His 
most  penetrating  and  sardonic   pronouncements  occur  in  books  com- 
menting on  the  quality  of  the  societies  in  which  he  has  moved.  Soliloquies 
in  England   (1922)   makes  passing  record  of  his  impressions  of  British 
character.  His  still  more  elaborate  appraisal  of  the  intellectual  and  cultural 
climate  of  this  country  is  contained  in  Philosophical  Opinion  in  America 
(1918),  Character  and  Opinion  in  the  United  States  (1920),  and  The 
Genteel  Tradition  at  Bay  (1931).  For  Santayana  at  the  top  of  his  form 
one  would  choose  such  a  book  as  Dialogues  in  Limbo  (1925),  ^here  hl* 
brilliance  crackles  like  an  electric  discharge  over  the  "normal  madness" 
of  man's  mental  life. 

William  James  held  an  unflattering  view  of  the  writings  of  American 
men  of  thought  in  his  day:  "Our  American  philosophical  literature 
is  dreadful  from  a  literary  point  of  view  . . .  technical  and  semi-technical 
language,  half-clear  thought,  fluency,  and  no  composition!  Turn  your 
face  resolutely  the  other  way!"  Unfortunately  this  advice  could  not  be 
followed  by  his  most  prominent  successor,  John  Dewey  ( 1 859-         ),  whc 


CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  949 

beginning  as  an  educational  psychologist  has  steadily  extended  to  other 
fields  his  conviction  that  adaptation  to  changing  social  realities  is  the 
chief  function  of  intelligence  in  the  modern  world.  This  point  of  view 
he  calls  Instrumentalism.  Dewey's  ideas  have  won  wide  acceptance,  par- 
ticularly in  education,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  they  are  often  expressed 
in  a  turgid  prose  which  must  be  painfully  translated  by  the  reader  before 
its  meaning  can  be  appreciated.4  His  obscurity  is  due  in  part  to  the  fact 
that  he  is  struggling  to  find  fit  language  for  concepts  which  are  boldly 
original.  In  his  later  books  he  achieves  both  force  and  clarity.  Repre- 
sentative of  his  many  publications  are  The  School  and  Society  (19 15), 
Democracy  and  Education  (19 16),  Human  Nature  and  Conduct  (1922), 
Philosophy  and  Civilization  (1931),  Art  as  Experience  (1934),  A  Com- 
mon Faith  (1934),  Liberalism  and  Social  Action  (1935),  and  Freedom 
and  Culture  (1939).  A  useful  selection  from  Dewey's  writings  has  been 
compiled  by  Joseph  Ratner  under  the  title  Intelligence  in  the  Modern 
World  (1939).  The  influence  of  Dewey's  books  has  been  extended 
through  his  teaching  and  lecturing,  his  leadership  of  learned  societies, 
his  missions  to  advise  foreign  governments,  and  most  of  all  by  his 
courageous  acceptance  of  the  role  of  liberal  thinker  in  a  time  when  any 
independent  thought  was  increasingly  suspect. 

The  trend  of  American  philosophy  in  the  first  quarter  of  the  twentieth 
century  was  overwhelmingly  toward  naturalism  and  positivistic  science, 
though  Santayana  contrived  to  pay  eloquent  lip  service  to  the  ghosts  of 
departed  idealisms.  But  about  1925  reaction  came  from  an  unexpected 
quarter.  Physical  scientists,  once  the  chief  exponents  of  a  materialistic 
world,  found  that  their  researches  into  the  ultimate  nature  of  matter 
obliged  them  to  posit  a  certain  indeterminism  in  the  atom  itself.  Popu- 
larly stated,  the  structure  of  the  atom  seemed  able  to  "shift  gears"  at 
will,  a  phenomenon  as  startling  as  the  famous  swerve  of  primal  bodies  in 
Lucretius,  and  one  which  shattered  the  basic  hypothesis  of  a  closed 
system  of  mechanical  cause  and  effect.  Physicists  and  mathematicians 
found  themselves  entertaining  notions  of  what  amounted  to  free  will  at 
the  very  core  of  matter. 

These  general  tendencies  reached  the  American  public  through  popu- 
larized science,  and  typically  in  the  books  of  Alfred  North  Whitehead 
(186 1- 1947),  British  mathematician  and  philosopher,  who  in  his  later 
years  was  attached  to  the  faculty  of  Harvard.  In  Science  and  the  Modern 
World  (1925)  and  later  writings  Whitehead  criticized  the  positivistic 
and  antireligious  assumptions  of  many  scientists,  and  at  the  same  time 
laid  the  foundations  for  a  unification  of  science  and  religion  in  his  phi- 
losophy of  Organism.  Existence,  as  he  described  it,  consists  of  the  ad- 
justment of  interrelated  organisms  to  an  environment  which  they  in  turn 
affect  by  their  adjustment.  God,  the  impersonal  ultimate  good,  supplies 

4  See  J.  W.  Beach,  The  Outlook  for  American  Prose  (Chicago,  1926),  pp.  41-52. 


950  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

a  principle  of  union  and  a  ground  of  rationality.  Readers  for  whom 
Dewey's  Instrumentalism  seemed  too  earth-bound  found  satisfaction  in 
Whitehead. 


In  the  sphere  of  sociological,  political,  and  juristic  prose  the  outstand- 
ing figure  at  the  opening  of  the  century  was  that  of  William  Graham 
Sumner  (i  840-1910),  professor  of  political  and  social  science  at  Yale. 
His  theories  of  social  determinism  culminated  in  the  massive  Folkways 
(1907),  which  undertook  to  demonstrate  that  human  institutions  result 
from  a  slow  settling  into  man's  environment,  a  process  as  deliberate  as 
the  adjustment  of  a  glacier  to  the  terrain  over  which  it  moves  and  as  in- 
exorable. Since  Sumner  heartily  believed  that  nothing  less  than  cosmic 
causes,  such  as  a  shift  of  the  earth's  axis  or  the  coming  of  a  new  ice-age, 
could  justify  the  upsetting  of  the  social  status  quo,  he  exerted  himself  to 
oppose  such  innovations  as  government  regulation  of  industry  and  the 
organization  of  labor  unions.  Except  in  his  advocacy  of  free  trade,  he 
was  a  model  conservative  of  a  stand-pat  era. 

His  contemporary,  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Jr.  (1 841- 193 5),  whose 
great  reputation  flowered  in  the  last  two  decades  of  his  long  life,  was 
on  the  contrary  a  leading  exponent  of  liberal  views.  His  famous  dis- 
senting opinions  written  in  his  capacity  as  Associate  Justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  laid  a  foundation  for  the  conception  of  social  betterment 
by  legislation  which  became  the  official  philosophy  of  the  New  Deal. 
The  vivid  individualism  acquired  during  his  boyhood  in  Boston  and 
confirmed  by  his  service  as  an  officer  in  the  Civil  War  preserved  Holmes 
from  acquiescing  in  the  necessary  virtue  of  things  as  he  found  them.  He 
possessed  an  exceptionally  shrewd  intuition  of  the  real  values  concealed 
under  legal  complexities.  The  magnetism  of  his  personality  is  well  ex- 
hibited in  his  Speeches  (1891,  191 3),  while  his  flexibility  of  mind  dis- 
tinguishes his  Collected  Legal  Papers  (1920). 

Though  the  first  Roosevelt  to  hold  the  presidential  office  was  ex- 
ceedingly voluble  in  print  and  the  second  Roosevelt  produced  several 
volumes  of  state  papers  memorable  as  announcing  crucial  decisions,  the 
one  twentieth-century  President  of  the  United  States  with  a  gift  of  style 
was  Woodrow  Wilson  (1856-1924).  As  a  professor  of  jurisprudence  and 
political  economy  at  Princeton,  where  he  later  became  president  of  the 
university,  Wilson  did  a  reasonable  amount  of  scholarly  writing,  includ- 
ing a  five-volume  History  of  the  American  People  (1902).  His  occa- 
sional essays  were  collected  in  An  Old  Master  and  Other  Political  Essays 
(1893)  and  Mere  Literature  (1896).  The  spirit  of  liberal  reform  which 
characterized  his  term  as  governor  of  New  Jersey  and  his  prewar  ad- 
ministration of  the  national  government  was  given  able  popular  expres- 
sion in  The  New  Freedom  (191 3).  But  Wilson's  full  powers  of  rhetoric 


CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  951 

were  never  called  out  until  he  was  reluctantly  obliged  to  declare  war 
on  Germany.  The  series  of  great  state  papers,  largely  of  his  own  com- 
position, which  was  inaugurated  by  the  declaration  of  war,  was  surpassed 
only  by  Lincoln's  superb  utterances  during  the  Civil  War.  Once  again 
the  policies  of  the  nation  were  formulated  in  unequivocal  terms  and  with 
a  nobility  that  matched  the  greatness  of  the  occasion.  Whatever  rank 
history  may  allot  to  him  as  a  statesman,  Wilson's  position  in  literature 
is  secure. 


With  the  death  of  Parkman  in  1893  tne  nne  °f  American  literary  his- 
torians came  to  an  end.  The  leading  historical  scholars  at  the  dawn  of 
the  new  century  considered  themselves  scientific  investigators  rather  than 
artists  in  historiography.  They  were  nurtured  on  Darwinian  ideas.  Far 
from  being  a  colorful  pageant,  the  past  to  them  was  to  be  regarded  as 
the  matrix  which  held  the  present  in  embryo.  It  was  the  historian's  duty 
to  ransack  the  records  and  diligently  trace  the  causes  of  later  events, 
beliefs,  customs,  and  institutions.  Furthermore  he  was  not  to  be  content 
with  superficial  facts.  He  was  to  make  himself  conversant  with  every 
aspect  of  the  past,  including  those  so  commonplace  that  they  were  or- 
dinarily taken  for  granted  and  overlooked.  He  must  study  geographical 
influences,  the  growth  and  distribution  of  population,  disease  rates,  trade 
routes,  systems  of  communication,  changes  in  social  economy,  religious 
movements,  and  from  the  welter  of  miscellaneous  information  select  the 
factors  which  were  significant  for  the  future.  It  would  be  a  fatal  error 
if  he  did  not  find  the  real  explanation  for  some  momentous  development 
in  a  previously  unsifted  dustpile.  History  had  become,  in  other  words,  a 
science  of  detection,  having  for  its  object  the  discovery  of  lines  of  causa- 
tion or  of  growth  in  human  society.  This  change  of  direction  was  not 
so  much  inspired  by  the  pragmatic  trend  of  philosophy  as  it  was  a  parallel 
manifestation  of  the  same  intellectual  tendency. 

The  stages  in  the  transition  to  the  new  conception  of  history  may  be 
marked  in  terms  of  writers,  though  at  the  cost  of  isolating  and  perhaps 
unduly  stressing  their  individual  peculiarities.  In  1906  James  Ford 
Rhodes  (1848- 1927),  an  independent  scholar,  completed  the  seventh 
and  final  volume  of  his  monumental  History  of  the  United  States:  From 
the  Compromise  of  1850,  which  supported  the  thesis  that  the  great  con- 
flict between  the  North  and  the  South  was  attributable  to  the  divergence 
of  abstract  political  ideas.  This  extremely  simplified  view  may  be  con- 
sidered typical  of  what  was  then  orthodox  historiography,  which  sought 
to  level  all  things  under  one  easily  comprehended  principle.  Meanwhile 
new  complexities  were  being  introduced  in  a  second  large-scale  work, 
A  History  of  the  People  of  the  United  States:  From  the  Revolution  to 
the  Civil   War,  by  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  professor  John  B. 


952  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

McMaster  (1852-1932),  a  thirty-years'  labor  which  was  concluded  with 
the  publication  of  the  eighth  volume  in  191 3.  In  place  of  the  former  em- 
phasis upon  war  and  politics,  McMaster  gave  large  attention  to  social  and 
economic  factors,  and  so  prepared  the  way  for  historians  who  were  to 
make  a  cult  of  economic  determinism. 

In  the  field  of  European  history  Edward  P.  Cheyney  (1 861- 1947),  also 
of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  wrote  with  high  professional  skill,  and 
with  touches  of  quiet  humor  characteristic  of  the  man,  his  Social  and 
Industrial  History  of  E?igland  (1901)  and  European  Backgrounds  of 
American  History  (1904).  This  admirable  scholar  has  been  perhaps  un- 
fairly overshadowed  by  the  more  showy  and  innovating  mind  of  his 
former  colleague  James  Harvey  Robinson  (1863-1936),  professor  of 
history  at  Columbia  and  first  director  of  the  New  School  for  Social  Re- 
search, who  partly  by  his  influential  teaching  of  the  scientific,  philosophic, 
and  cultural  development  of  modern  Europe,  and  partly  by  such  books 
as  The  New  History  ( 191 1 )  and  its  widely  read  successor  The  Mind  in 
the  Making  (1921),  made  himself  a  center  from  which  fresh  and  vigorous 
lines  of  historical  thinking  radiated. 

The  name  most  commonly  associated  with  the  economic  interpreta- 
tion of  history  is  that  of  Charles  A.  Beard  (1874- 1948),  who  startled 
readers  in  191 3  by  the  then  novel  thesis  that  the  makers  of  our  Con- 
stitution were  either  property-holders  or  agents  of  the  propertied  class 
and  hence  were  deeply  concerned  to  set  up  a  form  of  government  favor- 
able to  their  own  interests.  Not  content  with  destroying  the  myth  of 
disinterestedness  as  applied  to  the  founding  fathers,  Beard  next  proceeded 
to  extend  his  corrosive  investigation  to  a  second  popular  idol  in  Economic 
Origins  of  Jeffersonian  Democracy  (19 15).  The  notion  that  fundamental 
beliefs  might  be  a  product  of  social  and  economic  conditions,  and  subject 
to  change  with  them,  was  a  bombshell  to  traditional  thinking.  During 
the  nineteen-twenties  when  the  influence  of  Beard's  restless  mind  was  at 
its  height,  it  inspired  numerous  attempts  to  employ  economic  interpreta- 
tions as  a  means  of  disclosing  sensational  flaws  in  the  admired  personages 
of  the  past.  What  economic  scrutiny  left  unscathed  was  finished  off 
by  psychological  interpreters  who  drew  their  light  from  Lytton  Strachey 
01  Gamaliel  Bradford.  Beard  should  not  be  too  much  blamed  for  the 
excesses  of  his  followers.  In  the  retirement  of  his  later  years  he  wrote  in 
collaboration  with  his  wife  Mary  R.  Beard  a  series  of  comprehensive 
analyses  of  American  civilization,  and  these  have  been  widely  influential 
in  awakening  a  realistic  interest  in  the  rise  of  the  United  States. 

The  era  of  skeptical  distrust  was  succeeded  by  a  new  perception  of 
the  value  of  American  institutions  as  these  were  threatened  by  the  ag- 
gressive totalitarian  ideologies  of  central  European  states.  At  the  same 
time  Oxford,  Cambridge,  the  Sorbonne,  and  various  younger  universities 
established  chairs  for  the  study  of  American  history  or  literature.  All 


CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT  953 

phases  of  our  civilization  from  Roger  Williams  to  Will  Rogers  were 
reappraised  with  a  desire  to  understand  and  evaluate.  The  collective 
scholarship  of  the  period  undertook  and  carried  through  monumental 
enterprises,  such  as  the  Dictionary  of  American  Biography,  edited  by 
Allen  Johnson  and  Dumas  Malone,  the  long  shelf  of  Federal  Guides  to 
the  states,  the  Rivers  of  America  series,  a  new  American  A4en  of  Letters, 
and  many  others.  Individual  writers  explored  the  meaning  of  puritanism, 
the  making  of  the  Constitution,  or  the  Jacksonian  reforms  with  an  eye  to 
their  bearing  on  problems  of  the  present  day.  Perhaps  the  most  typically 
representative  work  of  the  period  was  Vernon  L.  Parrington's  Main 
Currents  in  American  Thought  (1927,  1930),  which  successfully  fused 
the  political,  economic,  social,  and  literary  aspects  of  the  past  in  a 
single  narrative  inspired  by  a  frankly  liberal  bias.  With  this  great  achieve- 
ment eloquence  returned  to  the  writing  of  history. 

Besides  the  cultural  development  of  the  country  some  special  branches 
of  historical  writing  have  been  brought  to  the  fore  during  the  past 
twenty-five  years.  The  history  of  business  and  industry  may  be  said  to 
have  been  inaugurated  early  in  the  century  with  Ida  Tarbell's  excoriation 
of  Standard  Oil  and  the  crusading  attacks  upon  other  forms  of  big  busi- 
ness by  several  other  writers.  Rather  slowly  professional  scholars  followed 
the  muckrakers  and  reformers.  The  special  study  of  merchants,  bankers, 
captains  of  industry,  and  railroad  builders  has  been  well  begun  by  Allen 
Nevins,  Marquis  James,  and  many  more.  Meanwhile  the  history  of  labor 
has  not  been  neglected,  but  has  built  on  the  foundation  of  the  many 
volumes  fostered  by  John  R.  Commons  and  his  students  in  the  Docu- 
mentary History  of  American  Industrial  Society  (1910-11)  and  History 
of  Labor  in  the  United  States  (1918-35). 

No  satisfactory  military  history  of  World  War  I  has  been  produced, 
but  the  Second  War,  on  the  contrary,  is  in  process  of  being  recorded 
in  an  officially  sponsored  series  of  Army  histories  and  in  fourteen  pro- 
jected volumes  dealing  with  naval  operations  by  Captain  Samuel  Eliot 
Morison,  one  of  the  most  skillful  of  living  historians.  The  interest  in  the 
military  events  of  our  own  time  has  been  reflected  backward,  especially 
in  the  form  of  new  studies  of  some  of  the  leaders  of  the  Civil  War. 
Pre-eminent  among  these  is  Douglas  Southall  Freeman's  exhaustive  and 
brilliant  treatment  of  General  Robert  E.  Lee  and  his  lieutenants,  begun 
in  1934,  a  work  which  has  been  characterized  by  competent  authority  as 
"the  high-water  mark  of  American  historical  literature  since  Parkman." 
It  is  notable  that  along  with  improved  scientific  techniques  the  leading 
writers  of  history  in  recent  years  have  revived  the  ideal  of  the  historian  as 
a  literary  master. 


Chapter  51 


PROLETARIAN  LEANINGS 


Long  before  the  name  of  Karl  Marx  was  popularly  known  in  this  country 
and  before  proletariat  was  a  word  recognized  in  polite  society,  Ameri- 
can writers  had  begun  to  take  a  sympathetic  interest  in  the  lives  of 
manual  workers.  At  first  there  was  little  inclination  to  suppose  that  the 
laborer's  lot  was  not  a  happy  one;  it  was  after  all  not  markedly  different 
from  the  common  lot  in  a  society  where  class  distinctions  were  unfixed 
and  temporary.  The  Village  Blacksmith  under  his  spreading  chestnut 
tree  served  Longfellow  as  a  symbol  of  satisfying  accomplishment,  while 
for  Whitman  the  various  occupations  of  men  were  clearly  significant  as 
opportunities  for  the  exercise  of  power  and  skill.  Whittier,  to  be  sure, 
hoped  that  his  Songs  of  Labor  would  help  the  toiler  to  gain  "a  manlier 
spirit  of  content"  at  the  forge  or  plow,  but  in  comparison  with  the 
manifest  evils  of  Slavery  he  could  see  no  social  injustice  in  the  free  labor 
system  of  northern  industry.  In  the  eighteen-forties  the  factory  girl  was 
exalted  as  a  symbol  of  independence. 

Soon  after  i860  a  sense  that  all  might  not  be  well  in  mill  and  factory 
began  to  find  literary  expression.  Rebecca  Harding  Davis  and  Elizabeth 
Stuart  Phelps,  first  in  short  stories  that  commanded  attention  and  later 
in  novels,  attempted  to  picture  the  human  cost  of  industrialism,  especially 
in  terms  of  the  woman  mill-worker.  An  awareness  of  revolutionary 
tendencies  in  the  European  labor  movement  made  an  unexpected  ap- 
pearance in  The  Princess  Casamasslma  by  Henry  James.  Howells  as- 
serted a  mild  socialism  in  several  of  his  later  novels,  and  both  he  and 
Bellamy  speculated  about  Utopian  readjustments  of  the  social  order.  The 
chief  radical  movement  of  the  eighteen-nineties,  however,  was  the  agrar- 
ian crusade  of  the  Middle  West  and  South,  which  was  directed,  not  to 
the  overthrow  of  capitalism,  but  to  a  more  equitable  sharing  of  the 
profits.  During  the  first  decade  of  the  twentieth  century  the  stories  of 
Jack  London  and  the  fiction-coated  tracts  of  Upton  Sinclair  dwelt  on 
the  miseries  of  the  laboring  class,  though  without  featuring  the  idea  of 

954 


PROLETARIAN  LEANINGS  955 

class-war.  Both  the  first  Roosevelt  and  Woodrow  Wilson  introduced  a 
number  of  measures  to  relieve  social  injustice. 

The  full  impact  of  Marxism  on  American  sensibilities  may  be  dated 
from  World  War  I  and  the  Russian  Revolution.  In  the  young  American 
reporter  John  Reed  (1887- 1920)  the  Bolshevik  leaders  found  an  eager 
sympathizer,  whose  Ten  Days  that  Shook  the  World  (19 19)  has  been 
canonized  by  the  Soviets  and  whose  body  now  lies  buried  in  the  Kremlin. 
But  the  rank  and  file  of  Americans  at  home  repudiated  with  incompre- 
hension and  horror  the  novel  tenets  of  Lenin  and  Trotsky.  Through  the 
nineteen-twenties,  though  Das  Kapital  and  other  Marxist  writings  were 
read,  few  intellectuals  in  this  country  were  captivated  by  Communist 
teachings. 

The  financial  collapse  of  1929  and  the  ensuing  depression  changed  the 
picture.  When  the  shimmering  bubble  of  prosperity  burst,  the  leader- 
ship of  big  business  was  fatally  discredited.  While  the  New  Deal  was 
attempting  to  re-establish  public  confidence  in  an  economic  machine 
heavily  overlaid  with  fresh  verbal  colors  and  alphabetic  devices,  but  not 
fundamentally  very  different  from  the  one  which  had  so  disastrously 
broken  down,  sensitive  thinkers  were  wondering  whether  the  time  had 
not  come  to  scrap  the  system  of  free  enterprise  as  a  decrepit  relic  of  the 
frontier  period.  Theoretical  Marxism,  not  to  be  confused  with  Com- 
munist imperialism,  then  came  into  fashion  and  remained  an  attitude 
which  could  be  held  without  suspicion  of  disloyalty  until  the  close  of 
World  War  II. 

Many  American  idealists  who  allied  themselves  with  the  Communist 
party  were  quickly  disillusioned  when  they  discovered  in  practice  the 
contempt  for  the  dignity  of  the  individual  which  characterized  the  new 
religion  of  the  masses.  But  for  about  a  decade  Marxism  remained  a  not 
negligible  force  in  literary  criticism.  It  gave  rise  to  an  abortive  move- 
ment to  exalt  proletarian  writing  as  the  only  type  of  esthetic  expression 
which  possessed  current  significance  in  a  time  of  social  crisis.  Its  em- 
phasis on  the  laboring  class  as  the  custodians  of  the  future  awakened  a 
national  concern  for  the  condition  of  both  the  industrial  and  the  agri- 
cultural worker.  The  need  of  even  more  drastic  measures  to  relieve  social 
injustice  was  felt  as  an  undercurrent  in  fiction  and  drama,  though  seldom 
going  so  far  as  to  break  out  in  revolutionary  propaganda. 

The  interdependence  of  literature  and  economics,  besides  being  crudely 
evident  during  the  years  of  the  depression,  served  as  a  convenient  dogma 
with  which  to  oppose  the  tightly  organized  formulas  of  the  New  Hu- 
manists. Critics  who  would  normally  have  accepted  experimental,  im- 
pressionistic, or  skeptical  attitudes  were  driven  toward  the  Marxist  posi- 
tion in  order  to  escape  from  the  doctrines  of  Babbitt  and  More.  Max 
Eastman  (1883-  ),  a  founder  and  editor  of  The  Masses,  in  The 
Literary  Mind:  Its  Place  in  an  Age  of  Science   ( 193 1 )   and  Artists  in 


956  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

Uniform  (1934),  and  V.  F.  Calverton  (1900-40)  in  The  Liberation  of 
American  Literature  (1932),  helped  to  broadcast  the  new  gospel.  Exile's 
Return  (1934)  by  Malcolm  Cowley  (1898-  )  may  stand  as  a  typical 
analysis  of  postwar  impressionists  in  process  of  becoming  socially  con- 
scious. Other  books  which  contributed  to  the  movement  were  The  Re- 
Discovery  of  America  (1929)  by  Waldo  Frank  (1889-  )  and  Ameri- 
can Testament  (1936)  bv  Joseph  Freeman  (1897-  )i  one  °f  tne  most 
articulate  Communist  intellectuals. 

Since  Marx,  Engels,  and  Lenin  were  too  busy  with  the  fundamentals 
of  the  social  order  to  give  much  thought  to  the  superstructure,  the  proper 
application  of  Marxian  concepts  to  art  remained  open  to  endless  dis- 
cussion. Much  of  the  debate  was  carried  on  in  a  highly  controversial 
fashion  in  the  pages  of  The  Masses  and  other  left-wing  publications  and 
by  speeches  at  the  three  American  Writers'  Congresses  organized  under 
radical  auspices  in  1935,  1937,  and  1939.  The  heated  assertions  and  re- 
joinders of  those  days  have  vanished  as  completely  as  yesterday's  torn 
paper.  Only  three  or  four  books  of  any  historical  importance  remain  to 
mark  the  battleground. 

Memorable  at  least  as  a  position  constantly  exposed  to  attack  and 
counterattack  was  The  Great  Tradition  (1933,  revised  1935)  by  Gran- 
ville Hicks  (190 1-  ),  a  history  of  American  literature  since  i860 
from  the  Marxian  standpoint.  It  turned  out  to  be  a  less  epoch-making 
work  than  that  of  Taine  largely  because  it  was  the  product  of  a  more 
plodding  mind.  Hicks  was  just  not  bright.  The  same  author's  Figures  of 
Transition  (1939),  an  examination  of  British  writers  at  the  close  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  differed  from  "bourgeois"  literary  criticism  only 
in  its  more  explicit  attention  to  the  social  and  economic  status  of  the 
authors  treated.  This  emphasis  is  entirely  legitimate  when  it  does  not 
degenerate,  as  in  the  hands  of  doctrinaire  Marxists  it  is  prone  to  do, 
into  a  pseudo-investigation  devoted  to  finding  whatever  needs  to  be 
found  for  the  upholding  of  the  party  line.  When  Hicks  resigned  from 
the  Communist  party  in  disgust  at  the  cynical  Hitler-Stalin  treaty,  he 
performed  his  last  act  of  public  significance.  It  remained  for  Bernard 
Smith  to  contribute  an  apotheosis  of  the  Marxist  attitude  in  literature, 
Forces  in  American  Criticism  (1939),  at  the  exact  moment  when  it 
ceased  to  be  tenable. 

Probably  the  most  striking  volume  produced  by  thinkers  of  the  left 
is  James  T.  Farrell's  Note  on  Literary  Criticism  (1936),  an  essay  in 
Marxist  self-evaluation  which  rebukes  his  critical  comrades  for  their 
many  deviations  from  common  sense.  This  is  the  work  of  an  honest  mind. 
But  since  common  sense  is  apparently  one  of  the  qualities  least  valued 
by  Communists,  Farrell  has  himself  been  cast  out  as  a  "deviationist." 
The  present  tendency  on  the  part  of  Soviet  fuglemen  is  to  apply  literal 
and  stifling  controls  to  all  forms  of  art,  and  to  biology  and  physics  as 


PROLETARIAN  LEANINGS  957 

well,  lest  some  germ  of  bourgeois  dissidence  infect  the  carefully  sterilized 
mind  of  the  masses. 

One  of  the  favorite  pastimes  of  certain  left-wing  critics  when  Marxism 
was  in  flower  consisted  in  making  blueprints  for  proletarian  literature. 
Since  the  general  aim  should  be  to  sharpen  the  sense  of  the  class  struggle 
and  of  the  proletarian  reader's  role  in  it,  the  work  should  "directly  or 
indirectly  show  the  effects  of  the  class  struggle,"  "the  author  must  be 
able  to  make  the  reader  feel  that  he  is  participating  in  the  lives  described," 
and  the  author's  standpoint  must  "be  that  of  the  vanguard  of  the  pro- 
letariat." x  No  novel  or  play  that  completely  satisfied  these  specifications 
existed,  and  though  some  wooden  attempts  were  made,  none  was  created. 
Marx  himself  had  held  that  the  dictatorship  of  the  proletariat  would  con- 
stitute too  brief  a  phase  of  social  development  to  provide  the  cultural 
background  necessary  for  works  of  art. 

The  desire  to  make  of  art  a  weapon  in  the  class  struggle  nevertheless 
persisted.  It  led  novelists  and  playwrights  with  Marxian  predilections  to 
choose  subjects  which  could  be  used  to  discredit  the  structure  of  capitalist 
society.  Instances  of  social  injustice,  as  in  the  exploitation  of  share- 
croppers, unskilled  workers,  recent  immigrants,  Negroes,  and  other 
helpless  groups;  evidences  of  corruption  among  middle-class  business- 
men and  politicians;  studies  of  industrial  workers  in  action,  particularly 
at  times  of  revolt  as  in  strikes  and  labor  disputes— these  bulked  large 
among  favorite  themes.  They  were  not,  of  course,  peculiar  to  prole- 
tarian writers.  Dreiser,  Dos  Passos,  and  others  drew  unlovely  pictures  of 
capitalist  degeneration  which  gave  aid  and  comfort  to  their  Marxian 
colleagues. 

In  the  wake  of  Dos  Passos  came  The  Disinherited  (1923)  by  Jack 
Conroy  ( 1 899-  ) ,  a  panoramic  novel  of  the  United  States  during  and 
after  World  War  I.  The  author's  second  major  work,  World  to  Win 
(1935),  was  one  of  a  number  of  novels  picturing  the  condition  of  con- 
temporary American  workers.  Also  prominent  in  this  field  were  Robert 
Cantwell  (1908-  ),  who  in  Laugh  and  Lie  Down  (1931)  and  later 
books  described  the  life  of  a  lumber  mill  city  of  the  Northwest,  and 
Albert  Halper  (1904-  ),  whose  wide  acquaintance  with  various  oc- 
cupations enabled  him  to  write  with  equal  facility  of  workers  in  electro- 
type foundries,  mail-order  houses,  and  the  like,  in  both  New  York  and 
Chicago.  Strike:  A  Novel  of  Gastonia  (1930)  by  the  veteran  fellow- 
traveller  Mary  Heaton  Vorse,  To  Make  My  Bread  (1932)  by  Grace 
Lumpkin,  and  Cantwell's  The  Land  of  Plenty  (1934)  are  typical  of  the 
more  militant  labor  novels. 

Josephine  Herbst  (1897-  )  in  her  trilogy  Pity  is  Not  Enough 
(1933),  The  Executioner  Waits  (1934),  and  Rope  of  Gold  (1939)  ex- 

1  Granville  Hicks,  "The  Crisis  in  Criticism"  in  the  New  Masses  (Feb.  1933). 
Quoted  by  Edmund  Wilson:  The  Triple  Thinkers  (1928,  rev.  edition,  1948),  p.  207. 


958  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

tended  the  panoramic  view  of  social  conditions  in  chronological  rather 
than  geographical  terms;  her  study  of  the  fortunes  of  the  Trexler  family 
involves  a  social  history  of  the  United  States  from  the  Reconstruction 
period  through  the  Great  Depression.  Michael  Gold  (1896-  )  in 
120  Millions  (1929)  and  especially  in  his  fictionalized  autobiography  Jews 
Without  Money  (1930)  has  vividly  sketched  the  environment  of  slum- 
dwellers  on  New  York's  East  Side. 

The  self-conscious  climax  of  left-wing  propaganda  in  the  forms  of 
fiction,  poetry,  "reportage,"  drama,  and  criticism  came  with  the  publica- 
tion of  an  anthology  entitled  Proletarian  Literature  in  the  United  States 
(1935).  Though  Joseph  Freeman  in  his  introduction  to  this  volume 
categorically  stated  that  "No  party  resolution,  no  government  decree 
can  produce  art,  or  transform  an  agitator  into  a  poet,"  he  then  proceeded 
to  work  himself  around  to  the  opinion  that  the  only  genuine  art  must 
necessarily  be  based  on  the  worker's  experience  and  awareness  of  the 
class  struggle.  His  argument  is  further  vitiated  by  the  usual  assumption 
of  Communist  critics  that  bourgeois  writing  is  concerned  entirely  with 
"flirtations  and  autumn  winds  and  stars  and  nightingales  and  getting 
drunk  in  Paris  cafes."  The  plain  fact  evident  to  a  reader  of  the  selec- 
tions included  in  the  anthology  is  that  the  more  class-conscious  pieces 
were  the  least  successful  as  literary  art,  and  that  such  sound  esthetic 
work  as  Erskine  Caldwell's  "Daughter"  in  prose  fiction  or  the  poems  of 
Horace  Gregory,  Orrick  Johns,  and  Genevieve  Taggard  were  little  de- 
pendent for  their  success  on  the  political  sympathies  of  the  authors. 


A  sympathetic  observer,  by  no  means  committed  to  the  Communist 
party  line,  produced  the  most  effective  proletarian  stories,  one  of  the 
best  strike  novels,  and  a  piece  of  documentary  propaganda  in  fictional 
form  which  rivals  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin.  Because  his  interest  was  primarily 
in  people  rather  than  political  measures,  his  work  has  never  been  con- 
sidered quite  satisfactory  by  left-wing  leaders.  Needless  to  say  it  has  not 
found  favor  with  conservative  readers. 

John  Steinbeck  (1902-  )  grew  up  in  the  Salinas  Valley  of  Cali- 
fornia, where  as  a  boy  he  worked  enough  in  truck-gardens  and  fruit 
orchards  to  know  the  feel  of  the  land  and  to  establish  first-hand  ac- 
quaintance with  migratory  workers.  Desultory  schooling  at  Leland  Stan- 
ford at  various  periods  gave  him  a  knowledge  of  the  craft  of  writing. 
At  twenty-seven  he  published  a  first  novel  dealing  somewhat  romantically 
with  the  career  of  the  seventeenth-century  buccaneer  Sir  Henry  Morgan. 
In  the  short  stories  of  ranch  people  collected  as  The  Pastures  of  Heaven 
(1932)  and  in  a  second  novel  touched  by  agrarian  mysticism,  To  a  God 
Unknown  (1933),  he  found  his  natural  subject.  Like  Sherwood  Anderson 
he  could  project  himself  into  the  personalities  of  simple  folk  who  lived 


PROLETARIAN  LEANINGS  959 

primitively  near  the  level  of  bare  subsistence.  He  rapidly  made  literary 
capital  of  the  section  of  California  which  he  knew  by  heart. 

Five  successive  books,  all  of  them  palpable  hits,  brought  him  to  na- 
tional prominence.  Tortilla  Flat  (1935),  a  series  of  short  stories  presenting 
a  happy-go-lucky  group  of  paisanos  near  Monterey,  mingles  as  many 
literary  strains,  from  Don  Quixote  to  the  Little  Flowers  of  St.  Francis, 
as  the  assorted  bloods  which  blend  in  the  nondescript  characters.  The 
result  is  an  amusing  comic  cycle,  but  of  a  somewhat  factitious  kind  when 
compared,  for  instance,  with  Erskine  Caldwell's  tales  of  Southern 
crackers.  Steinbeck's  paisanos  are  never  humanly  vicious;  they  are  ever- 
lastingly funny  and  cute. 

It  is  difficult  to  strike  the  note  of  tragedy  if  the  persons  of  the  drama 
have  no  more  dignity  than  chipmunks.  For  that  reason  Steinbeck's  Of 
Mice  and  Men  (1937),  a  streamlined  novelette  easily  transformed  into  a 
play,  possesses  a  superficial  effectiveness  but  no  lasting  significance. 
Nominally  the  action  of  the  ranch-hand  George,  who  shoots  his  witless 
pal  Lennie  to  save  him  from  being  lynched,  is  tragic,  but  the  sympathies 
of  the  reader  have  been  so  powerfully  alienated  by  the  psychopathic 
weaknesses  of  Lennie  that  tragic  emotion  seems  out  of  place.  The  ultimate 
effect  is  merely  one  of  unpleasant  shock. 

Two  short  stories  in  the  volume  called  The  hong  Valley  (1938)  suc- 
cessfully avoid  the  facility  which  is  Steinbeck's  greatest  failing.  "Chrys- 
anthemums" is  a  fairly  subtle  character  study  of  a  middle-aged  rancher's 
wife— a  story  that  reveals  a  long  advance  in  sureness  of  understanding 
on  the  author's  part.  "The  Red  Pony"  is  a  poignant  treatment  of  a  boy's 
discovery  of  the  heartless  cruelty  of  natural  law.  In  these  stories  Stein- 
beck's artistry  in  the  depicting  of  human  beings  comes  to  full  mastery. 

His  interest  in  social  injustice,  the  second  major  theme  of  his  work, 
first  became  evident  in  his  novel  describing  a  strike  of  migratory  fruit 
pickers,  In  Dubious  Battle  (1936).  The  author's  sympathies  are  decidedly 
with  the  oppressed  laborers,  whose  wages  have  been  reduced  below  a 
living  standard,  and  with  the  Communist  agitators  who  organize  them 
to  battle  for  a  right  to  live.  But  his  attitude,  as  reflected  in  the  speeches 
of  the  Doctor,  is  experimental  and  philosophical.  The  book,  despite  its 
vivid  justification  of  the  workers,  cannot  be  taken  as  revolutionary  propa- 
ganda, and  hence  it  was  greeted  with  marked  coolness  by  advocates  of 
social  overturn. 

The  chance  of  a  lifetime  for  a  novel  of  social  significance  came  when 
the  climax  of  the  drought  cycle  in  the  nineteen-thirties  forced  thousands 
of  tenant  farmers  in  the  Southwest  to  leave  the  "Dust  Bowl"  area  in 
search  of  a  land  of  promise.  The  majority  of  them  swelled  the  ranks  of 
itinerant  labor  in  the  lush  but  pre-empted  valleys  of  California,  creating 
extreme  and  sometimes  insoluble  problems  of  adjustment  for  the  local 
inhabitants.  It  would  be  too  much  to  say  that  these  problems  were  al- 


96o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

ways  squarely  faced  or  wisely  handled.  There  was  undoubtedly  much 
unscrupulous  exploitation  of  the  dispossessed  farmers,  some  needless 
brutality  and  the  usual  inclination  to  deny  the  existence  of  the  crisis  as 
long  as  possible.  Steinbeck  with  his  highly  developed  and  almost  biologi- 
cal interest  in  proletarian  behavior  saw  at  once  the  rich  possibilities 
which  this  folk-exodus  offered.  With  a  photographer  he  toured  the  line 
of  march  of  the  fleeing  tenants,  visiting  roadside  camps  and  "Hoover- 
villes,"  collecting  information  and  compiling  a  pictorial  record  of  the 
movement.  He  was  then  ready  to  put  together  the  "propaganda  novel" 
of  the  century,  The  Grapes  of  Wrath  (1939). 

The  traditional  techniques  of  fiction  demanded  that  the  situation  should 
be  dramatized  in  the  story  of  a  typical  group  of  persons,  and  this  Stein- 
beck achieved  by  the  creation  of  the  Joad  family.  He  managed  to  in- 
clude in  the  twelve  members  of  the  tribe,  plus  the  supernumerary  Casy 
who  travels  with  them,  practically  the  full  gamut  of  types  which  the 
region  offered,  but  only  one  of  the  group  attained  the  status  of  a  fully 
individualized  personality.  In  Ma  Joad  we  encounter  one  of  the  great 
authentic  people  of  fiction.  The  rest  are  puppets  with  differentiating 
traits. 

The  figure  of  Casy,  the  one-time  camp  meeting  exhorter,  serves  as  a 
spokesman  for  the  philosophic  overtones  of  the  book.  He  does  not  rep- 
resent any  dogmatic  religious  or  political  creed.  He  is  observant,  re- 
flective, brooding,  and  puzzled,  a  kind  of  grass-roots  Emerson  clinging 
to  a  badly  damaged  optimism.  In  him  we  recognize  the  faith  of  the  plain 
people,  who  know  that  they  can  be  hurt  but  who  refuse  to  believe  that 
they  can  be  permanently  crushed. 

The  most  original  feature  of  the  novel  consists  of  the  combination  of 
the  epic  story  of  the  Joads  with  "intercalary  chapters"  which  sketch 
aspects  of  the  historical  background  much  after  the  fashion  of  the  docu- 
mentary film.  Steinbeck  had  studied  with  profit  such  recent  experiments 
in  documentary  pictures  as  Pare  Lorentz's  The  Plow  that  Broke  the 
Plains  and  The  River,  and  the  same  creator's  radio  drama  Ecce  Homo, 
The  lessons  of  these  new  techniques  he  successfully  applied  to  the  novel. 

There  is  brilliant  writing  in  The  Grapes  of  Wrath,  memorable  de- 
scription, episodes  of  moving  power,  forceful  exposition  of  social  in- 
justice. Yet  on  reflection  the  final  impression  left  by  the  novel  is  not 
of  the  author's  indignation  so  much  as  of  his  cleverness  as  a  contriver 
of  effects.  This  is  particularly  true  in  relation  to  the  final  scene,  in  which 
Rosasharn  offers  the  milk  of  her  breast  to  keep  life  in  a  starving  vagrant. 
Was  it  to  indulge  in  such  a  moment  of  maudlin  sentiment,  cheaply  derived 
from  de  Maupassant,  that  Steinbeck  has  carried  us  through  the  anabasis 
of  the  Okies?  If  so,  the  reader  can  hardly  avoid  feeling  let  down.  That 
many  experienced  some  such  disappointment  was  evidenced  by  the  re- 
action  provoked   by   the   book.    The   most  insistent  protest   came   from 


PROLETARIAN  LEANINGS  961 

readers  who  were  revolted  by  the  bits  of  scatological  realism  and  ob- 
scenity with  which  Steinbeck  had  salted  his  pages.  For  some,  at  least, 
the  spectacle  of  human  misery  was  less  compulsive  than  the  shock  to 
their  feelings  of  propriety. 

In  the  ten  years  that  have  elapsed  since  The  Grapes  of  Wrath  was 
published,  Steinbeck  has  done  little  to  enhance  his  reputation.  His  next 
book  was  a  study  of  marine  biology,  written  in  collaboration  with  a 
professional  naturalist,  and  he  has  written  during  and  since  the  war 
several  pieces  of  competent  special  reporting.  The  three  new  ventures 
in  fiction  that  he  has  produced  represent  a  serious  slackening  of  his 
grasp.  His  facile  anti-Nazi  novel,  The  Moon  is  Down  (1942),  is  a  slick 
and  stagey  performance— it  was  immediately  dramatized— which  suffers 
in  comparison  with  a  forthright,  hard-hitting  book  like  The  Cross  and 
the  Arrow  by  Albert  Maltz.  Cannery  Row  (1945)  and  The  Wayward 
Bus  (1947)  are  relapses  to  the  mixture  of  sordidness  and  whimsy  of  his 
earlier  work.  The  sentimentality  which  deluges  these  books  like  cheap 
perfume  is  not  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  a  thorough  emotional  clean- 
ing up. 


Radicals  interested  in  the  theatre  have  from  time  to  time  attempted  to 
provide  channels  for  the  production  of  left-wing  drama.  Few  of  these 
have  contributed  anything  of  importance  to  dramatic  history.  A  pos- 
sible exception  was  the  Group  Theatre,  founded  in  193 1  by  insurgents 
who  broke  away  from  the  Theatre  Guild.  The  story  of  its  decade  of 
operation  has  been  told  by  Harold  Clurman,  one  of  the  leaders,  in  The 
fervent  Years  (1945).  Its  main  distinction  consisted  of  its  production  of 
the  plays  of  a  new  playwright,  Clifford  Odets  (1906-  ),  who  began  his 
connection  with  the  stage  as  an  actor  in  the  company. 

Odets'  plays  fall  into  two  groups,  of  which  the  first,  produced  in 
rapid  succession  in  1935,  brought  him  an  immediate  celebrity  which  his 
later  work  failed  to  sustain.  Waiting  for  Lefty,  a  thrilling  and  novel 
dramatization  of  a  taxi  strike,  was  hailed  because  of  its  bitterly  par- 
tisan union  sympathies.  Awake  and  Sing  presents  the  struggle  of  a  young 
and  rebellious  Bronx  idealist  against  his  petty  middle-class  environment, 
and  his  final  determination  to  work  for  radical  change.  Till  the  Day  I 
Die,  a  one-act  play,  deals  with  the  Communist  resistance  in  the  early  years 
of  Hitler's  rise  to  power.  These  three  plays  seemed  to  justify  the  cur- 
rent belief  in  a  fusion  of  art  and  social  propaganda. 

A  second  series  of  dramas,  beginning  with  Paradise  Lost  (1935)  and 
including  Golden  Boy  (1937)  and  Rocket  to  the  Moon  (1938)  showed 
Odets  more  concerned  with  individuals  than  with  the  larger  aspects  of 
the  labor  movement  or  the  promised  revolution.  The  only  comfort  that 
a  Marxian  might  extract  from  these  plays  would  consist  of  the  drab  and 


96i  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

discouraging  view  of  bourgeois  life  which  thev  consistently  embodied. 

Besides  the  work  of  Odets  the  Group  Theatre  produced  in  1939  a 
play  by  Irwin  Shaw  (19 14-  )  entitled  The  Gentle  People,  which 
combined  authentic  dialogue,  dramatic  intensity,  and  a  sense  of  social 
background  to  make  this  "Brooklyn  fable"  of  proletarians  and  gangsters 
a  memorable  experience.  Even  more  powerful  on  the  stage  were  Shaw's 
antiwar  dramas,  Bnry  the  Dead  (1936)  and  Sons  and  Soldiers  (1944). 
In  the  first  mentioned  the  central  idea  of  having-  six  soldiers  rise  from 
the  dead,  standing  with  their  backs  to  the  audience,  and  demand  the 
fundamental  enjoyments  in  life  of  which  war  had  deprived  them,  was 
deeply  thrilling  in  its  human  appeal.  In  conceiving  this  situation  the 
playwright  touched  an  elemental  chord. 

Another  manifesto  against  war,  written  when  the  party  line  en- 
couraged pacifism,  was  Peace  on  Earth  (1933)  by  Albert  Maltz  and 
George  Sklar.  The  former,  whose  first  play  Merry -Go-Round  was  pro- 
duced in  1932,  was  later  the  author  of  a  graphic  dramatic  treatment  of 
coal  mining  in  Black  Pit  (1935),  and  a  study  of  the  psychological  reac- 
tions of  a  militiaman  engaged  in  suppressing  a  strike,  Private  Hicks  ( 1936). 
Still  more  flagrantly  propagandist^  are  the  plays  of  John  Howard 
Lawson  ( 1 895-  ).,  which  from  his  burlesque  of  American  politics 
in  Loud  Speaker  (1927)  to  his  glorification  of  the  sit-down  strike  in 
Marching  Song  (1937)  exhibit  the  mistake  of  substituting  ideology 
for  drama. 

Older  playwrights  than  those  just  mentioned  have,  of  course,  found 
occasional  material  for  genuinely  successful  drama  in  social  conflicts. 
Elmer  Rice  (1892-  ),  used  the  resources  of  expressionist  technique  to 
underline  his  satire  of  the  commercial  spirit  in  The  Adding  Machine 
(1923).  An  interest  in  presenting  the  social  background  of  a  typical 
slum  community  may  be  discerned  in  Street  Scene  (1929),  which  hardly 
came  alive,  however,  until  it  was  presented  as  a  musical  show  to  which 
Kurt  Weil  contributed  the  music  and  Langston  Hughes  the  lyrics.  Other- 
wise, with  the  possible  exception  of  The  Flight  to  the  West  (1941), 
Rice's  work  falls  into  the  category  of  popular  melodrama.  A  telling  illus- 
tration of  the  .difference  between  an  imaginative  play  and  a  piece  of 
propaganda  adapted  to  the  stage  is  afforded  by  a  comparison  of  Robert 
Ardrey's  Thunder  Rock  (1939)  and  his  Negro  play  Jeb  (1946).  Only 
the  first  can  be  described  as  literature. 

On  the  whole  the  drama  has  shown  itself  less  adaptable  to  Marxist 
ideology  than  the  novel.  The  slower  tempo,  broader  background,  and 
more  flexible  form  of  prose  fiction  permit  an  emphasis  on  tendentiousness 
which  is  generally  fatal  to  dramatic  effectiveness.  Almost  of  necessity  a 
play  must  center  in  an  individual.  Hence  a  social  theory  which  in  effect 
negates  the  importance  of  the  individual  is  obviously  less  suitable  than 
any  other  to  presentation  in  terms  of  the  theatre. 


Chapter  52 


NEW  MOVEMENTS  IN  POETRY 


By  1930,  thanks  in  part  to  fresh  critical  ideas  originating  in  France 
and  disseminated  in  English  by  such  writers  as  T.  S.  Eliot,  Middleton 
Murry,  William  Empson,  and  I.  A.  Richards,  the  conception  of  the  poet 
as  a  spokesman  of  ideals  was  thoroughly  discredited.  The  general  un- 
certainty and  bewilderment  characteristic  of  the  period  between  the 
First  and  Second  World  Wars  brought  about  a  disintegration  of  com- 
mon attitudes.  There  could  be  no  communication  on  a  profound  level 
between  people  who  lacked  fundamental  understandings.  Journalism 
flourished,  and  novels  and  plays  of  the  more  ephemeral  sort  profited  by 
the  helter-skelter,  but  for  the  high  serenity  of  poetry  no  fit  audience 
could  be  found.  The  function  of  the  arts  in  civilized  living  had  long 
been  taken  for  granted;  at  last  it  appeared  that  all  convictions  on  the  sub- 
ject had  crumbled  to  dust  and  vanished  away.  The  goods  that  poets  had 
to  offer  were  no  longer  in  demand. 

Deprived  of  a  footing  in  reality,  poets  reacted  in  diverse  ways.  Some, 
becoming  rebels  and  iconoclasts,  took  a  doggish  satisfaction  in  defiling 
the  lampposts  of  respectability.  Others  were  thrown  back  on  mere  ex- 
pression and  took  infinite  pains  to  develop  an  idiom  of  private  sensibility 
which  might  be  shared  with  a  small  coterie  of  friends  and  worshipers. 
Still  others  projected  grandiose  designs,  as  though  shakiness  in  the  founda- 
tions might  be  offset  by  a  ponderous  elaboration  of  the  superstructure. 
Poets  wise  in  their  generation,  however,  ignored  public  neglect  and  set 
about  the  task  of  reconstructing  a  poetry  that  could  at  least  be  admired 
for  its  integrity.  Their  work  has  created  a  new  type  of  poetic  expres- 
sion antithetic  to  the  conventions  of  the  Tennysonian  epoch. 

The  basic  principle  of  the  new  poetry  is  its  insistence  on  freeing  the 
poem  from  dependence  on  anything  outside  itself.  A  poem,  in  essence, 
is  not  a  report  of  an  action,  emotion,  or  thought  which  has  previously 
taken  place;  it  is  itself  a  taking  place,  a  unique  experience,  a  construction 
with  an  entity  all  its  own.  This  conception  holds  that  the  substance  of 

963 


964  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

poetry  is  plastic,  and  hence  places  an  extreme  emphasis  on  technique. 
The  virtue  of  a  poem  lies  in  its  success  in  doing  what  it  is  designed  to 
do,  in  other  words,  in  its  artistry.  Hence  the  words  of  a  poem  have  no 
relevant  meaning  aside  from  their  relation  to  the  poem  as  a  whole.  The 
poem  produces  its  effect  primarily  as  a  structure,  a  system  of  interlock- 
ing tensions,  a  music  that  reverberates  down  many  corridors  of  the  mind. 
It  is  not  to  be  read  lightly  as  entertainment,  but  undertaken  as  a  discipline, 
an  exercise  that  no  flabby  intellect  can  enjoy.  It  is  less  concerned  to  be 
understood  than  to  be  respected. 

The  new  poetry  is  also  a  highly  sophisticated  product,  which  utilizes 
in  various  ways  a  simultaneous  awareness  of  all  phases  of  the  literary 
past.  But  its  main  sources  have  been  the  "metaphysical"  poets  of  the 
seventeenth  century  in  England  and  the  symbolist  poets  of  late  nine- 
teenth-century France. 

Along  with  the  latter,  modernist  poets  have  welcomed  the  insights 
afforded  by  recent  studies  in  psychology,  folklore,  and  anthropology. 
They  have  been  quick  to  take  advantage  of  what  has  been  learned  of  the 
unconscious  mind,  particularly  as  its  workings  are  revealed  in  the  mech- 
anism of  dreams.  The  distinction  between  what  Freud  calls  the  latent 
dream  content  and  its  manifestation  in  the  images  that  pass  before  the 
dreamer's  mind  is  valid  for  many  modernist  poems.  For  them  too  the 
imagery  or  symbols  out  of  which  poems  are  ostensibly  made  are  but 
decorative  shields  that  conceal  and  protect  the  vital  urgencies  that  ani- 
mate all  literary  creations.  Besides  taking  over  something  of  the  two- 
level  structure  of  dreams,  many  contemporary  poets  have  been  eager  to 
exploit  the  Freudian  doctrine  concerning  the  sexual  implications  of  the 
dream-world,  as  though  rabid  to  make  up  for  the  lean  years  of  Victo- 
rian reticence. 

At  no  previous  period  in  the  history  of  American  letters  has  there 
been  more  widespread  technical  competence  among  practitioners  of 
poetry  than  at  present.  Whatever  failings  the  modernist  poet  may  have, 
a  lack  of  expertness  is  not  likely  to  be  one  of  them.  Critical  discussions 
of  the  nature  of  poetry  and  analyses  of  its  processes  have  frequently 
appeared,  both  in  prose  and  in  verse.  Every  device  of  rhetorical  emphasis, 
repetition  and  echo,  rhythmic  variation,  abrupt  contrast  of  tone,  experi- 
mentation in  rhyme  and  half-rhyme,  vowel  modulation,  alliteration,  and 
even  typographical  contortion  has  been  studied  and  skillfully  utilized. 
Yet  it  remains  true  that  among  the  many  writers  of  poetry  who  have 
attained  high  excellence  few  seem  likely  to  be  remembered  as  major 
poets.  In  his  special  kind  T.  S.  Eliot  remains  a  lonely  figure. 


The  ingenuity,  impishncss,  and  irreverence  that  often  distinguish  sur- 
realist painting  appear  as  marked  characteristics  of  the  work  of  E.  E. 


NEW  MOVEMENTS  IN  POETRY  965 

(Edward  Estlin)  Cummings  (1894-  ),  the  son  of  a  Harvard  Uni- 
versity professor  and  born  and  brought  up  in  Cambridge.  His  first  book, 
The  Enormous  Room  (1922),  was  a  graphic  narrative  in  prose,  with 
overtones  from  Pilgrim's  Progress,  based  on  the  author's  six  months  in  a 
French  military  prison,  where  he  had  been  consigned  on  an  unfounded 
charge  of  treasonable  correspondence  with  the  enemy.  The  experience 
seems  to  have  given  a  special  twist  to  Cummings'  mind.  Ever  since  his 
liberation  he  has  reacted  like  a  boy  just  released  from  school.  But  beneath 
the  surface  effervescence  may  be  felt  a  profound  malaise  that  links  him 
with  Fitzgerald,  Hemingway,  and  Dos  Passos. 

With  Tulips  and  Chimneys  (1923)  Cummings  inaugurated  a  series 
of  volumes  of  verse  which  challenged  attention  because  of  their  bizarre 
titles  (one  was  left  studiously  without  a  title)  and  by  oddities  of  punctu- 
ation, capitals,  spelling,  syntax,  word-division,  and  the  freakish  arrange- 
ment of  lines  on  the  printed  page.  In  spite  of  this  typographical  posturing, 
these  irritating  snickers  at  the  reader's  expense,  Cummings  possesses  a 
genuine  poetic  gift  of  a  not  unusual  kind.  Behind  the  screen  of  his  affecta- 
tions may  be  discerned  a  romantic  sensibility  which  like  that  of  Heinrich 
Heine  at  times  takes  the  form  of  lyrical  tenderness,  and  at  other  times 
voices  unqualified  feelings  of  disillusionment  and  disgust. 

Cummings  would  seem  to  have  chosen  somewhat  willfully  the  role  of 
spokesman  for  arrested  maturity.  His  impatience  of  all  restraints,  his 
scorn  of  sterility,  his  pleasure  in  a  life  of  the  senses  rather  than  of  the 
mind,  his  robust  sensuality,  his  impudence,  wit,  gaiety,  and  exuberance, 
seem  to  mark  him  as  a  perennial  undergraduate.  Yet  his  writing,  which 
has  the  refreshing  insouciance  of  conversation  with  a  nephew  just  home 
from  college,  is  far  from  being  that  of  a  novice.  No  poet  understands 
better  than  Cummings  the  effects  that  may  be  secured  by  timing,  con- 
trast, accent,  and  point.  His  subtleties  of  craftsmanship  belie  the  apparent 
boyishness  of  his  attitudes. 

Besides  his  poetry  Cummings  has  written  Eimi  (1933),  a  travel  diary 
excoriating  the  social  repressions  remarked  on  a  visit  to  Soviet  Russia; 
Him  (1927),  a  play  once  staged  by  the  Provincetown  Players  and  ac- 
curately characterized  by  Burns  Mantle  as  "Twenty  episodes  about  noth- 
ing in  particular  but  everything  in  general";  and  Tom  (1935),  a  burlesque 
on  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin.  Though  both  burlesque  and  blasphemy  play  a 
disproportionately  large  part  in  his  collected  poems,  Cummings  is  capa- 
ble of  forgetting  his  resentments  on  occasion  and  of  striking  a  note  of 
sheer  loveliness  and  charm.  Notable  examples  are  the  often  quoted  "All 
in  green  went  my  love  riding"  and  a  poem  on  spring  which  has  neither 
title  nor  quotable  first  line.1  The  unorthodox  sonnet  beginning  "You  shall 

iNo.  6  and  No.  30  in  Collected  Poems  (1938),  by  E.  E.  Cummings.  Too  many 
performances  in  this  volume  look  like  exhibitions  of  automatic  writing  on  the  part 
of  the  poets  typewriter.  It  is  tragic  that  Cummings  has  encountered  adulation  rather 


966  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

above  all  things  be  glad  and  young,"  which  stands  last  in  his  Collected 
Poems,  states  without  flippancy  the  essential  articles  of  his  creed.  As  a 
playboy  of  verbal  surprises  he  has  succeeded  in  "Anyone  lived  in  a 
pretty  how  town"  and  "What  if  a  much  of  a  which  of  a  wind"  in  writing 
the  best  abstract  verse  of  the  period.  And  in  satirical  pieces  like  "I  sing 
of  Olaf"  and  "It  was  a  goodly  co"  he  has  swung  a  whip  of  scorpions  and 
laughed  a  hyena  laugh  at  organized  banality. 


Several  women  poets  contemporary  with  Cummings  have  not  taken 
his  advice  to  avoid  thinking,  but  have  constructed  poems  with  intellect 
as  the  chief  tool,  or  with  a  combination  of  intellect  and  emotion  inex- 
tricably fused.  In  this  respect  they  brought  about  an  authentic  revival  of 
the  "metaphysical"  lyric  practised  by  John  Donne  and  his  successors. 
The  wit  which  is  an  inevitable  concomitant  of  poetry  so  conceived  is  a 
wit  born  of  reticence. 

Marianne  Moore  (1887-  )  on  the  basis  of  six  slender  volumes  of 
verse— the  third,  Selected  Poems  (1935),  contains  an  introduction  by  T. 
S.  Eliot— has  achieved  a  niche  all  her  own.  A  Bryn  Mawr  graduate  and 
at  one  time  a  librarian,  Miss  Moore  has  read  widely  and  remembered 
intensely.  Many  of  her  poems  begin  with  a  scrupulously  acknowledged 
quotation,  often  from  an  esoteric  or  unsuspected  source,  and  the  verse 
that  follows  sometimes  forms  a  commentary  on  the  quotation.  She  de- 
lights to  fit  sharp-edged  fragments  of  fact  into  the  mosaic  pattern  of 
her  verse.  Or  perhaps  a  more  exact  analogy  for  her  poems  would  be  the 
wire-constructions  sometimes  playfully  designed  by  sculptors.  Miss  Moore 
typically  prefers  to  use  prose  cadences  drawn  thin  to  secure  a  flowing 
continuity,  which  may  be  touched  with  rhyme  as  capriciously  as  points 
of  light  glinting  on  the  projecting  angles  of  an  intricate  piece  of  ma- 
chinery. Not  infrequently  a  rhyme  will  fall  on  an  unaccented  preposition 
or  article  or  even  on  a  first  syllable  of  a  word  divided  and  continued  in 
the  next  line.  She  has  gone  on  record  as  saying  that  "mathematics  as  we 
have  it  in  music,  can  be  of  inestimable  help  to  a  poet."  If  one  can  con- 
ceive of  an  ironic  view  of  life  expressed  by  means  of  a  series  of  equations, 
it  would  not  be  an  inexact  equivalent  for  Miss  Moore's  highly  cerebral 
writing. 

As  an  assistant  editor  of  the  Dial— then  in  the  last  of  its  many  avatars— 
from  1925  to  1929  Miss  Moore  took  a  prominent  part  in  discovering  and 
publishing  the  work  of  Eliot,  Cummings,  William  Carlos  Williams,  and 

than  the  strict  disciplinary  criticism  of  which  he  more  than  any  writer  of  our  time 
stands  in  need.  According  to  current  gossip,  one  of  his  coterie  introduced  Robert 
Frost  to  Cummings  with  the  remark:  "We  put  his  poems  next  to  the  Bible."  "I  go 
you  one  better,"  said  Frost  tartly,  "I  put  them  right  between  the  Old  and  the  New 
Testaments." 


NEW  MOVEMENTS  IN  POETRY  967 

Ezra  Pound,  together  with  the  early  and  tentative  efforts  of  many  lesser 
experimental  writers.  She  has  herself  contributed  some  of  the  most  civi- 
lized verse  of  the  era. 

Within  narrower  limits  but  with  greater  emotional  intensity  than  Miss 
Moore  could  pack  into  her  reflective  poems,  Louise  Bogan  (1897-  ) 
in  Body  of  This  Death  (1923)  and  three  subsequent  gatherings  of  slowly 
matured  short  lyrics  has  clarified  her  dark  broodings  on  the  tragic  aspects 
of  experience.  Writing  apparently  under  a  pressure  of  deep  personal 
feeling  as  well  as  the  discipline  of  her  keen  sense  of  esthetic  integrity, 
she  has  achieved  a  spare  and  sensitive  verse,  so  finely  modulated  that  it  is 
responsive  to  the  least  variation  of  stress  or  the  slightest  implication  in 
turn  of  phrase.  From  the  Austrian  poet  Rilke  and  the  later  Yeats  she 
has  learned  how  to  dramatize  inner  truth  in  impersonal  symbols.  Her 
images  are  hard  and  incisive: 

A  crystal  tree  lets  fall  a  crystal  leaf. 

Here  is  a  poet,  one  feels,  who  has  faced  life  with  courage  and  has  grown 
in  mastery  through  long  solitary  vigils. 

A  third  modern  metaphysical  poet,  in  whose  work  may  be  remarked 
the  extreme  sensitivity,  austere  intensity,  and  intellectual  strength  that 
characterizes  the  group,  is  Leonie  Adams.  Born  in  Brooklyn,  educated 
at  Barnard,  a  teacher  at  New  York  University  and  Bennington  College, 
she  has  published  relatively  little,  but  whatever  she  has  touched  has  been 
transmuted  by  a  fresh  imagination.  She  was  among  the  earliest  to  feel  the 
necessity  for  a  break  with  poetic  patterns  of  the  past  and  a  discovery  of 
a  new  species  of  poetry.  Her  own  experiments  have  sought  to  find  it  in 
symbols  of  increasing  abstraction  and  radiant  spiritual  beauty.  A  more 
concrete  imagination  might  perhaps  have  produced  more  abundantly. 


A  recurrent  illusion  of  modern  poets  has  been  the  hope  to  attain  cen- 
trality  of  meaning  in  a  society  that  denies  any  distinction  between  center 
and  periphery.  A  Dante  with  the  highly  articulated  thought  of  St. 
Thomas  Aquinas  to  draw  upon,  and  behind  that  the  slowly  matured  con- 
victions of  Christendom,  could  find  symbols  to  express  a  whole  civili- 
zation in  singleness  of  vision.  But  no  modern  poet,  by  individually  taking 
thought,  can  reproduce  the  feat,  except  as  T.  S.  Eliot  does  it  by  leaning 
hard  on  Dante  and  ignoring  much  that  has  happened  since.  It  may  be 
possible  in  small  and  fragmentary  ways  to  create,  as  Leonie  Adams  has 
put  it,  "images  which  should  not  be  gathered  along  the  way  of  discourse 
or  meditation,  but  assumed  before  starting  out,  like  apparel,  or  entered 
into  as  a  world."  But  the  great  all-embracing  image  that  might  make  pos- 
sible a  poem  of  Virgilian  or  Miltonic  scope  can  be  produced  only  when 
masses  of  people  over  centuries  of  time  unite  to  "believe  it  into  being." 


968  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

In  the  effort  to  find  a  shortcut  to  singleness  of  vision  romantic  poets 
from  Keats  to  Rimbaud  have  tried  many  ways  which  lead  ultimately  to 
dead  ends. 

Though  conspicuously  ill-equipped  for  the  role  of  vatic  poet,  Hart 
Crane  (1899- 193 2)  made  a  somewhat  rash  attempt  to  create  an  imagina- 
tive synthesis  of  American  experience  while  his  understanding  of  his 
subject  was  at  best  extremely  imperfect.  His  composite  mystical  poem 
The  Bridge  (1930),  though  profusely  celebrated  by  its  author  as  "the 
Myth  of  America"  or  "an  epic  of  the  modern  consciousness,"  has  little 
to  justify  either  of  these  claims.  To  express  the  idea  of  national  unity, 
or  of  a  stream  of  absolute  faith  sweeping  all  things  in  its  course,  Crane 
brought  together  a  group  of  queerly  disparate  symbols,  including  Colum- 
bus, Pocahontas,  the  New  York  Subway,  Rip  Van  Winkle,  Poe,  Walt 
Whitman,  and  others,  which  were  somehow  to  be  integrated  in  the 
master-symbol  of  the  Brooklyn  Bridge  or  man's  creativeness  linking  past 
and  present  and  suggesting  extensions  into  a  vaguely  conceived  future. 
What  the  designer  got  at  last  out  of  this  curious  farrago  was  a  jerry- 
built  monstrosity,  which,  however,  cannot  be  summarily  consigned  to 
the  scrapheap.  Some  parts  of  the  poem,  notably,  the  "Proem"  and  the 
section  called  "The  River,"  exhibit  Crane's  special  talent  for  a  rich  inter- 
weaving of  imagery  into  a  fabric  of  strange  beauty.  The  collapse  of  the 
whole  leaves  these  sections  unimpaired.  If  the  poem  must  unhesitatingly 
be  called  a  failure,  it  remains  a  failure  of  crucial  import  not  only  for  the 
poet  himself,  but  for  American  letters. 

Crane's  lack  of  constructive  power  and  his  inability  to  sustain  a  work 
of  any  great  magnitude  may  be  attributed  to  the  confusions  of  his  era, 
or  alternatively  they  may  be  explained  by  the  irregularities  of  his  life, 
which  led  finally  to  his  suicide  at  sea.  He  was  the  son  of  a  well-to-do 
candy  manufacturer  in  Ohio,  but  the  divorce  of  his  parents  placed  him 
early  under  abnormal  psychological  strains.  Instead  of  going  to  college 
he  picked  up  a  miscellaneous  education,  chiefly  by  reading  avant-garde 
reviews,  and  without  the  ballast  of  familiarity  with  traditional  poetry  he 
plunged  at  once  into  impressionistic  writing,  for  which  he  discovered 
a  natural  aptitude.  Subsequent  occupation  as  a  writer  of  advertising  copy 
did  nothing  to  steady  him,  but  rather  made  him  too  easily  satisfied  with 
attractive  novelties  of  phrase.  This  fault  he  never  outgrew.  The  striving 
toward  and  never  quite  attaining  a  genuine  tension  may  be  illustrated 
by  two  autobiographical  stanzas  from  one  of  his  latest  poems,  "The 
Broken  Tower,"  which  may  profitably  be  compared  with  lyrical  pas- 
sages from  T.  S.  Eliot's  Four  Quartets: 

And  so  it  was  I  entered  the  broken  world 
To  trace  the  visionary  company  of  love,  its  voice 
An  instant  in  the  wind  (I  know  not  whither  hurled) 
But  not  for  long  to  hold  each  desperate  choice. 


NEW  MOVEMENTS  IN  POETRY  969 

My  word  I  poured.  But  was  it  cognate,  scored 
By  that  tribunal  monarch  of  the  air 
Whose  thigh  embronzes  earth,  strikes  crystal  Word 
In  wounds  pledged  once  to  hope— cleft  to  despair?  2 

Only  a  few  of  Crane's  compositions  are  free  from  this  sort  of  verbal 
gumminess.  He  may  be  seen  at  his  best  in  such  shorter  poems  as  "Praise 
for  an  Urn,"  "At  Melville's  Tomb,"  "Voyages,"  II  and  VI,  where  he 
was  stimulated  by  the  manuscript  verse  of  Samuel  Greenberg,  and  "Royal 
Palm."  At  his  worst  he  is  incredibly  bad,  and  his  inability  to  distinguish 
excellence  is  significant  of  the  confusions  under  which  he  labored.  His 
friend  Allen  Tate  has  remarked,  "Crane's  poetry  has  incalculable  moral 
value:  it  reveals  our  defects  in  their  extremity."  3 


Readers  of  the  symbolist  poetry  produced  by  the  current  leaders  of 
the  fashion  will  note  that  the  adjectives  "simple,  sensuous,  impassioned" 
selected  by  Milton  to  describe  what  poetry  should  ideally  be,  have  now 
been  reversed.  Poetry  in  the  modern  mode  is  complex,  cerebral,  fan- 
tastic. It  is  not  so  much  aloof  from  the  actual  world  as  defiant  of  it.  The 
supreme  end  of  art  is  to  create  out  of  the  disordered  world  of  fact  a  com- 
plete realm  of  ordered  values  for  the  imagination  to  inhabit. 

Such  at  any  rate  seems  to  be  the  chief  intention  of  the  poetry  of  Wal- 
lace Stevens  (1879-  ),  the  acknowledged  master  of  symbolist  writing 
at  the  close  of  World  War  II.  In  contrast  to  the  tradition  that  verse  should 
be  pre-eminently  the  medium  of  young  writers,  Stevens  had  graduated 
from  Harvard  and  become  an  established  insurance  lawyer  in  Hartford, 
Connecticut,  before  his  first  book  Harmonium  appeared  in  1923  (revised 
193 1 ).  Not  until  he  was  in  his  middle  fifties  did  he  commence  with  Ideas 
of  Order  (1935)  the  rapid  outpouring  of  book  after  book.  His  work 
displays  consequently  an  unusual  maturity.  It  is  also  marked  by  elegance, 
polish,  wit,  imperturbability,  and  easy  grace,  qualities  more  frequently 
found  in  French  than  in  English  or  American  letters.  One  feels  the  touch 
of  a  Gallic  esprit  fort  in  this  "skeptical  music." 

Like  other  symbolist  poets  Stevens  creates  a  vocabulary  of  images 
which  have  a  similar  meaning,  sometimes  verging  on  the  arbitrary  when- 
ever they  occur.  For  example,  when  he  writes: 

Fill  your  black  hull 
With  white  moonlight, 

we  are  to  understand  that  the  ship  signifies  consciousness  or  the  mind  of 
the  poet,  the  sea  (implied)  may  be  equated  with  life  or  the  uncomfortable 

2  From  "The  Broken  Tower"  in  The  Collected  Poems  of  Hart  Crane.  (Copyright 
March,  1933,  Liveright,  Inc.). 

3  Allen  Tate,  Reactionary  Essays  on  Poetry  and  Ideas  (1936),  p.  38. 


970  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

pressures  of  society,  while  moonlight  suggests  the  power  of  imagination. 
Certain  colors  likewise  have  a  fixed  connotation,  as  blue  in  The  Man  With 
the  Blue  Guitar  stands  for  artistic  creativeness.  Images  of  spring,  vouth, 
and  morning  bring  to  mind  the  dimension  of  time  within  which  obdurate 
actuality  becomes  plastic  to  the  shaping  hand.  Something  of  the  talent  of  a 
Sherlock  Holmes  is  needed  to  penetrate  Stevens'  oblique  implications.  His 
poetry  is  keyed  to  readers  who  delight  in  solving  puzzles.4 

The  poet  or  artist  is  for  Stevens  a  heroic  type.  He  must  confront 
actuality,  "the  real  that  wrenches,"  with  unflinching  opposition.  "The 
poetry  of  a  work  of  the  imagination  constantly  illustrates  the  funda- 
mental and  endless  struggle  with  fact."  5  He  must  neither  yield  to  "the 
malady  of  the  quotidian"  (i.e.  the  seductions  incident  to  wealth  and 
power)  nor  resort  to  evasion  by  means  of  a  discredited  supernaturalism. 
He  must  resolutely  give  order  to  his  own  society  and  his  own  experiences, 
and  by  making  them  articulate  make  them  bearable.  Stevens  discards 
traditional  religion  somewhat  wistfully  but  decisively,  because  he  feels 
that  it  does  not  come  to  grips  with  reality,  at  least  not  with  sufficient 
power  to  transform  it.  For  him  living  values  must  be  wrung  from  actu- 
ality. Salvation  lies  in  an  imaginative  grasp  of  the  world  as  it  exists  here 
and  now. 

By  nature  Stevens  is  as  much  a  critic  as  a  poet.  He  has  been  called 
"a  critic  given  poetic  veneer."  Hence  several  of  his  major  poems  are  de- 
voted to  a  consideration  of  esthetic  attitudes  and  procedures,  "The  Co- 
median as  the  Letter  C,"  to  name  a  striking  example,  is  an  eloborate 
restatement  of  his  constant  preoccupation  with  ways  in  which  the  artist 
can  overcome  the  menacing  disorder  of  stubborn  fact. 

A  second  symbolist  poet  of  recognized  stature  is  William  Carlos 
Williams  (1883-  ),  a  physician  resident  in  New  Jersey,  who  antici- 
pated the  Imagist  technique  in  the  early  and  not  very  successful  ex- 
periments of  Poems  (1909)  and  The  Tempters  (191 3),  but  with  his  third 
book,  Al  Que  Quiere  (19 17),  commenced  the  formation  of  a  radical 
style  all  his  own.  A  friend  of  Ezra  Pound's  at  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, Williams  perhaps  learned  from  him  how  to  practice  the  utmost 
economy  of  notation.  For  some  time  he  interested  himself  in  the  manu- 
facture of  original  but  formalized  lyrical  constructs,  which  like  the  often 
quoted  "Peace  on  Earth"  contained  little  substance.  Many  of  these  pieces 
were  omitted  from  the  inaccurately  named  Complete  Collected  Foems 
(1938).  In  his  later  work  Williams  has  posed  the  problem  of  deriving 
poetic  beauty  from  a  completely  objective  statement  of  impressions  drawn 
from  ordinary  and  even  sordid  things.  He  avoids  any  suspicion  of  emo- 
tional  heightening,   and   cultivates  a   flat,   matter-of-fact,   conversational 

1  I  do  not  myself  profess  any  such  talent  or  delight.  The  foregoing  discussion  of 
Stevens  is  heavily  indebted  to  an  unpublished  honors  thesis  by  David  R.  Ferry, 
Amherst,  194S. 

6  Parts  of  a  World  (1942),  note  facing  p.  182. 


NEW  MOVEMENTS  IN  POETRY  971 

tone,  which  might  easily  become  intolerable  if  not  combined  with  an 
extreme  rapidity  of  pace  and  a  startling  succession  of  sensations.  His 
style  reflects  the  fierce  nervous  tension  of  American  life  in  an  industrial 
community,  its  basic  sentiment  dissimulated  by  sardonic  overtones.  A 
reviewer  in  Poetry  has  well  described  the  quality  of  his  writing: 

There  is  no  still  life  in  his  imagery:  always  tension,  the  pull  of  mass  against 
mass;  action,  struggle,  growth — a  life  that  sucks,  curls,  bulges,  rattles,  grips, 
swells,  bursts— always  the  acid  dip  of  motion.  Colors  are  primary,  primitive; 
shapes  stand  out  bold.  Whatever  has  the  hard,  keen,  cold  edge  delights  him: 
barnacles  and  broken  ice-crusts  and  emerald  eelgrass;  a  rose  not  of  limpid 
velvet,  but  of  copper  and  steel.6 

Williams  may  be  seen  at  his  best  in  such  shorter  poems  as  "Yachts" 
and  "The  Crimson  Cyclamen,"  the  latter  one  of  the  most  perfect  examples 
of  pure  objectivism  in  the  language.  Without  violating  his  method  he 
has  also  succeeded  in  creating  an  indictment  of  war  in  "Item."  In  Pater- 
son,  a  long  poem  in  four  parts,  he  is  attempting  a  fusion  of  all  the  dis- 
parate phases  of  the  contemporary  social  scene,  a  completely  observed 
record  of  industrial  society,  in  which  observation  is  inseparable  from 
commentary.  What  he  pictures  is  Whitman's  America  of  the  common 
man  in  the  last  stages  of  degeneration  and  chaos,  needing  only  one  push 
to  topple  over  into  final  annihilation. 

Besides  poems  of  his  own  special  kind,  Williams  has  written  several 
books  in  prose,  including  novels,  short  stories,  and  nonfiction.  In  the 
American  Gram  is  notable  as  a  highly  stylized  study  of  cultural  origins. 
The  latest  of  his  plays,  A  Dream  of  Love,  was  somewhat  obscurely  pro- 
duced in  New  York  in  the  summer  of  1949.  Whether  he  writes  novels, 
plays,  or  poems  Williams  is  obsessed  with,  the  forms  and  pressures  of  in- 
choate modern  life. 


Poetry  in  the  decade  of  the  nineteen-forties  has  been  energetically  pro- 
duced by  a  number  of  younger  writers  whose  work  cannot  yet  be  meas- 
ured in  final  terms.  Among  older  poets  there  has  been  a  perceptible  trend 
toward  sententious  and  argumentative  verse.  In  Robert  Frost's  Steeple 
Bush,  for  example,  an  entire  section  entitled  "Editorials"  is  devoted  to 
comment  on  political,  literary,  and  scientific  issues.  Karl  Shapiro  (1913- 
)  in  conscious  emulation  of  Pope  has  discussed  the  techniques  of 
modern  verse  in  a  not  very  profound  Essay  on  Rime  (1945). 

Archibald  MacLeish  since  1933  has  been  vocal  on  social  questions,  in 

both  prose  and  poetry.  His  radio  plays,  Panic  (1935),  The  Fall  of  the 

City  (1937),  and  Air  Raid  (1938),  have  shown  an  intention  to  solidify 

public  attitudes  on  aspects  of  the  crisis  which  culminated   in   Hitler's 

6  Ruth   Lechlitner,   "The   Poetry   of  William   Carlos   Williams,"   Poetry,   Vol.   54 
(1939),  pp.  326-335. 


972  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

war.  Public  Speech  (1936)  is  an  announcement  of  the  poet's  duty  to 
serve  the  community  at  large  as  a  spokesman  of  its  unformulated  desires, 
and  America  Was  Promises  (1939)  more  specifically  sounds  a  call  to 
action  in  defense  of  a  democratic  way  of  life.  The  lrresponsibles  (1940), 
a  prose  work,  revives  the  charge  of  la  trahaison  des  clercs  with  its  in- 
dictment of  American  intellectuals  for  failing  to  take  an  active  stand  for 
the  professed  principles  of  democracy. 

An  able  satirist  of  the  stupidity  of  contemporary  middle-class  society 
is  Kenneth  Fearing  (1902-  ),  whose  first  book  was  published  in  1929 
and  whose  Collected  Poems  appeared  in  1940.  Better  than  any  other  re- 
cent poet  he  succeeds  in  giving  a  sharp  edge  to  his  unflattering  appraisal 
of  the  standards  by  which  the  mass  of  Americans  live. 

In  rediscovering  the  value  of  substance  in  the  mixed  art  of  poetry 
recent  practitioners  appear  to  be  reacting  sharply  from  the  tendency  to 
emphasize  abstract  form  in  verse  to  the  exclusion  of  all  other  considera- 
tions. If  that  is  what  is  happening,  the  re-establishment  of  a  balance  be- 
tween form  and  substance,  or  rather  the  renewed  perception  of  the 
inseparability  of  form  and  substance,  is  a  thoroughly  healthy  sign  of 
emergence  from  the  arid  region  of  abstract  verse. 


Chapter  53 


TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS 
AND  PRESSURES 


Almost  exactly  a  century  ago,  as  these  words  are  being  written, 
Edgar  Poe,  the  most  brilliant  magazinist  of  his  generation,  lay  dying 
in  sordid  surroundings  at  Baltimore.  For  twenty  years  his  efforts  to  earn 
a  living  by  his  pen  had  only  intermittently  sufficed  to  pay  the  expenses 
of  a  household  of  three.  A  part  of  his  unsuccess  was  no  doubt  due  to  his 
nervous  instability  and  irregular  habits;  a  fair  number  of  more  plodding- 
contemporaries  were  managing  to  subsist  on  incomes  derived  from  news- 
papers and  magazines.  But  the  conspicuous  failure  of  Poe  may  serve  to 
highlight  the  fact  that  the  practice  of  literature  in  this  country  was  a 
precarious  venture  until  relatively  recent  times.  Most  of  the  better  known 
writers  before  1870  were  obliged  to  supplement  their  literary  earnings 
by  other  means. 

In  the  course  of  a  hundred  years  the  economic  status  of  literary  workers 
has  been  utterly  transformed,  most  of  the  change  taking  place  in  the  last 
two  generations.  The  improvement  of  the  writer's  lot  may  be  attributed 
to  the  enormous  expansion  of  the  publishing  industry.  In  the  book  trade 
alone  the  annual  output,  which  had  reached  a  total  of  about  300  titles 
by  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century,  rose  to  an  all-time  high  of 
13,470  titles  in  19 10  and  by  1948  had  leveled  down  to  slightly  fewer  than 
1 0,000/  In  the  year  of  Poe's  death  the  total  value  of  all  products  of  the 
newspaper  and  periodical  industry  was  reckoned  as  a  little  in  excess  of 
$9,000,000;  the  comparable  figure  for  1929  was  over  $1, 000,000,000. 2  It 

1  The  figure  for  1849  is  anyone's  guess.  The  American  Book  Circular,  issued  by 
Wiley  and  Putnam  in  1843,  states  that  251  original  American  books  were  published 
in  1834  (p.  2).  Data  since  1890  are  available  in  H.  Lehmann-Haupt,  The  Book  in 
America  (1939),  p.  210,  and  in  the  annual  summaries  of  the  Publishers'  Weekly.  It 
should  be  noted  that  pamphlets  have  not  been  included  in  the  count  since  191 6. 

2  Alfred  M.  Lee,  The  Daily  Newspaper  in  America  (1937),  pp.  748-50.  Since  1889 
the  figures  have  included  incidental  products,  such  as  job  printing,  which  were  not 

973 


974  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

is  not  necessary  to  multiply  statistics  to  emphasize  the  point  that  publish- 
ing in  all  its  branches  has  become  an  important  species  of  big  business. 

The  increased  demand  for  literary  goods  and  services  has  made  it  pos- 
sible for  a  large  number  of  writers  to  live  by  the  pen.3  The  earnings  of 
a  moderately  successful  professional  author  under  present  conditions 
are  not  less  substantial,  and  probably  not  less  stable,  than  those  of  teachers, 
lawyers,  doctors,  architects,  or  engineers.  For  the  very  few  who  attain 
spectacular  popularity  the  rewards  are  extremely  large.  Since  1891, 
when  the  International  Copyright  Act  removed  the  disadvantages  under 
which  American  authors  had  long  suffered,  writers  of  fiction  have  especi- 
ally flourished.  In  1894  f°r  ^e  ^rst  tnTie  more  novels  of  native  than  of 
foreign  authorship  were  published  in  this  country.  Jack  London  in  the 
next  decade  was  receiving  an  annual  income  larger  than  the  salary  of  the 
President  of  the  United  States.  Scott  Fitzgerald  before  he  was  out  of 
his  twenties  had  reached  a  pinnacle  of  financial  success  which  a  business 
executive  might  envy.  The  fortunate  creator  of  a  prospective  best  seller 
at  the  present  time  might  have  his  novel  serialized  in  a  magazine  or  in  the 
syndicated  press,  published  in  book  form,  adopted  by  a  literary  club, 
abridged  in  a  fiction  digest,  distributed  in  a  popular  reprint  series,  drama- 
tized for  the  stage,  and  adapted  for  motion  picture  production,  and  from 
each  of  these  uses  of  his  work  he  would  derive  income.  Probably  no  one 
novel,  not  even  Margaret  Mitchell's  phenomenally  successful  Gone  with 
the  Wind,  has  been  processed  in  all  these  ways,  but  a  combination  of 
only  a  few  of  the  more  lucrative  would  suffice  to  place  an  author  in  com- 
fortable circumstances  for  a  considerable  period,  if  not  for  life. 

Besides  many  new  outlets  for  literary  work  and  enhanced  rewards  for 
the  more  salable  kinds,  there  are  now  available  a  variety  of  subsidiary 
aids  of  which  a  writer  may  avail  himself.  For  beginners  there  are  numer- 
ous opportunities  to  earn  money  as  publisher's  readers,  book  reviewers, 
writers  of  advertising  copy,  and  the  like.  The  subsidizing  of  a  promising 
young  author  by  a  man  of  wealth  has  not  entirely  ceased,  as  witness 
the  assistance  given  to  Hart  Crane  and  others  by  Otto  H.  Kahn.  But 
more  frequently  in  recent  years  publishers  have  supplied  financial  back- 
ing to  carry  a  writer  through  the  final  stages  of  his  apprenticeship  or 
over  lean  periods  in  his  later  career.  The  winning  of  a  Pulitzer  Prize  or 
a  Guggenheim  Fellowship,  in  addition  to  its  cash  value,  is  a  form  of  pub- 
licity which  often  helps  the  sale  of  a  writer's  books.  The  employment  of 
authors  of  reputation  by  colleges  and  universities  as  lecturers,  literary 
coaches,  or  poets  in  residence,  and  the  recent  proliferation  of  writers' 

previously  reckoned  in.  The  comparison  therefore  appears  more  striking  than  it 
actually  is. 

'■'■  The  Sixteenth  Census,  Co?nparative  Occupation  Statistics  for  the  United  States, 
shows  that  the  number  of  professional  authors  tripled  between  1910  and  1930.  Figures 
for  earlier  and  later  periods  are  not  available. 


TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS  AND  PRESSURES  975 

conferences  of  one  sort  or  another,  have  also  provided  sources  of  income. 
An  author  of  genuine  capacity  need  no  longer  encounter  the  excessively 
long  period  of  probation  which  E.  A.  Robinson,  for  example,  had  to  face. 

It  is  doubtful  whether  the  improved  economic  status  of  authors  has 
resulted  in  the  production  of  more  books  of  high  artistic  excellence, 
though  there  has  certainly  been  a  broadening  down  of  professional  com- 
petence. What  we  have  witnessed  has  been  a  trend  upward  from  the 
bottom  and  downward  from  the  top  toward  a  level  of  acceptable  but  not 
distinguished  performance.  The  decline  of  standards  has  been  an  inevitable 
result  of  the  enormous  expansion  of  the  market  and  of  the  realistic  policy 
of  catering  to  the  largest  possible  public.  Believers  in  democracy,  Frank 
Norris  and  Howells  among  them,  were  confident  that  the  masses  would 
eventually  learn  to  demand  first-class  reading  matter.  But  fifty  years 
later  it  is  debatable  whether  any  tendency  of  the  sort  can  be  discerned. 
"The  new  readers,"  as  Professor  William  Charvat  has  pithily  stated, 
"were  more  interested  in  facts  and  diversion  than  in  principles  and  art."  4 
Literature  is  not  likely  to  rise  higher  than  the  audience  for  which  it 
is  written. 

The  selective  and  cultured  audience  which  determined  the  quality  of 
literary  production  before  1900  was  inundated  by  a  tidal  wave  of  less 
genteel  readers  early  in  the  new  century.  Mass  immigration  brought 
numbers  of  keenly  intelligent  Europeans  to  whom  the  provincial  New 
England  standards  of  taste  meant  nothing.  Secondary  and  higher  educa- 
tion, which  doubled  and  redoubled  its  enrollments  in  every  decade  after 
1 9 10,  was  extending  reading  habits  to  groups  which  had  not  previously 
been  readers.  College  education  for  women  came  to  be  accepted  as  cus- 
tomary for  all  who  could  afford  it.  Junior  colleges  prolonged  the  period 
of  training  for  thousands  of  young  people,  while  Chautauqua  courses, 
night  schools,  extension  classes,  and  other  forms  of  adult  education 
awakened  the  minds  of  the  middle  aged.  Universities  in  the  South,  muni- 
cipal colleges,  Catholic  institutions  of  learning,  and  new  graduate  schools 
reached  still  other  groups.  The  depression  years  only  increased  the  de- 
mand for  special  training  by  demonstrating  the  superior  resources  of 
the  educated  in  terms  of  economic  survival.  These  and  other  causes  im- 
pelled Americans  to  become  something  more  than  chronic  readers  of 
newspapers. 

Not  all  sections  of  the  country  were  affected  alike,  however.  A  graphic 
indication  of  the  geographical  distribution  of  readers  took  the  form,  a 
few  years  back,  of  a  distorted  map  entitled  "A  Bookman's  Idea  of  the 
United  States  of  America,"  which  showed  that  a  great  majority  of  the 
bookbuyers  of  the  nation  were  concentrated  in  an  area  from  Maine  to 
New  Jersey  and  west  to  Illinois  and  Wisconsin.  Outside  of  this  north- 
east corner  only  California,  and  latterly  Texas,  provided  evidence  of  a 

4  LHUS,  "Literature  as  Business,"  Vol.  2,  p.  965. 


976  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

comparable  number  of  readers  in  proportion  to  the  population.  The  re- 
maining territory  was  of  relatively  little  importance  to  the  book  trade. 
Since  the  buying  of  books  seems  to  be  a  reliable  index  of  their  general  use, 
the  conclusion  is  inescapable  that  most  of  the  reading  public  is  contained 
within  the  regions  mentioned. 

Various  agencies  have  helped  to  make  books  available,  even  in  parts 
of  the  United  States  where  the  demand  for  them  is  light.  Outside  of  the 
larger  cities  more  than  six  thousand  public  libraries  were  in  operation  in 
1935,  many  of  them  housed  by  the  beneficence  of  Andrew  Carnegie. 
Circulating  libraries  where  books  could  be  rented  for  a  few  cents  a  day 
were  successful  in  enlarging  the  audience  for  low-grade  fiction.  Books 
of  a  more  serious  nature  were  widely  distributed,  especially  during  the 
nineteen-forties,  in  the  form  of  cheap  popular  reprints  sold  everywhere 
by  news  vendors,  and  by  the  utilization  of  drugstores  as  outlets  for  pub- 
lisher's remainders  at  greatly  reduced  prices.  Men  in  the  Armed  Forces 
during  World  War  II  were  supplied  with  special  editions  of  a  wide 
variety  of  books.  Though  magazines  continued  to  furnish  the  bulk  of 
the  reading  matter  consumed  by  the  American  public,  books  were  coming 
into  their  own.  Nearly  all  the  important  newspapers  found  it  advisable  to 
run  a  literary  page  or  a  Sunday  book  section.  The  book  clubs,  beginning 
in  1926  with  the  Book-of-the-Month  Club  and  the  Literary  Guild  and 
rapidly  increasing  to  include  clubs  designed  to  cater  to  every  conceivable 
taste,  have  been  notably  instrumental  in  bringing  high-class  publications 
into  hundreds  of  thousands  of  homes. 

The  development  of  a  large  and  relatively  sophisticated  reading  public 
tended  to  promote  the  flexibility  of  literature,  in  the  sense  that  readers 
and  buyers  could  be  found  for  books  and  magazines  on  a  great  variety  of 
levels.  Almost  any  shade  of  opinion  might  get  a  hearing.  The  new  free- 
dom of  expression  also  broke  violently  with  the  unwritten  taboos,  en- 
forced chiefly  and  of  necessity  by  the  editors  of  the  leading  magazines, 
against  the  printing  of  anything  which  might  be  regarded  as  indecent, 
profane,  or  even  vulgar.  "Coarse  words,"  which  had  been  banned  even 
when  writers  were  reporting  the  speech  of  coarse  characters,  began 
slowly  to  appear  in  print.  Book  publishers,  who  were  generally  less  ex- 
posed to  pressure  than  magazine  editors,  were  among  the  first  to  relax 
their  objections  to  complete  realism  of  language,  although  conspicuous 
violations  of  the  code  brought  prosecutions  from  quaint  vice  crusaders  of 
the  Anthony  Comstock  order.  The  censorship  of  the  four-letter  word 
was  magnified  into  an  issue  out  of  all  proportion  to  its  real  importance. 
After  much  wrangling,  in  the  course  of  which  some  books  which  could 
be  spared  were  suppressed  while  others  were  given  more  publicity 
than  would  normally  have  been  their  due,  the  zeal  of  the  guardians  of 
public  morality  was  brought  within  bounds,  at  least  temporarily.  In  1933 
Judge  John  M.  Woolsey's  classic  decision  that  Joyce's  Ulysses  as  a  seri- 


TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS  AND  PRESSURES  977 

ous  work  of  art  might  be  imported  into  the  United  States  represented  a 
notable  victory  for  common  sense.  But  the  urge  to  control,  if  not  to 
sterilize,  literature  remains  insistent,  and  when  thwarted  in  one  direction 
is  likely  to  break  out  in  another. 

More  subtle  and  potentially  more  serious  limitations  were  imposed  on 
the  writing  profession  by  the  leveling  of  literature  under  business.  Some 
of  these  were  due,  not  to  intention,  but  to  the  blind  operation  of  economic 
law,  which  favors  the  survival  of  the  baser  coinage.  The  fate  of  the 
Springfield  Republican  may  be  cited  as  typical  instance.  This  newspaper, 
published  in  a  small  western  Massachusetts  city,  had  won  national  im- 
portance as  an  independent  organ  of  opinion  under  the  editorship  of  the 
second  Samuel  Bowles.  It  thrived  in  competition  with  other  local  papers. 
But  when  all  four  of  the  city's  newspapers  were  consolidated  under 
corporate  ownership,  even  though  the  editorial  staffs  remained  separate, 
the  Republican  rapidly  declined  as  a  paying  proposition,  and  soon  was 
being  carried  by  the  papers  which  catered  to  the  broadest  popular  clien- 
tele. When  a  printers'  strike  caused  a  long  suspension  of  all  Springfield 
papers,  the  corporation  eliminated  two  of  them  in  the  interests  of  econ- 
omy, and  the  Republican  in  spite  of  its  fine  tradition  was  the  first  to  go. 
A  somewhat  similar  fate  had  previously  overtaken  the  Boston  Transcript. 

Much  the  same  business  considerations  were  responsible  for  revolu- 
tion in  the  magazine  field  which  led  to  the  disappearance  of  the  Century 
and  Scribnefs  and  to  radical  changes  of  policy  on  the  part  of  the  Atlantic 
and  Harper's.  The  type  of  periodical  which  appealed  to  cultivated  readers 
during  the  later  years  of  the  nineteenth  century  could  not  easily  survive 
in  competition  with  periodicals  streamlined  to  serve  as  advertising  media. 
What  captured  the  interest  of  twentieth-century  readers  were  not  maga- 
zines of  literary  quality,  but  news  digests  employing  a  fashionable  argot, 
picture  papers,  and  de  luxe  publications  which  specialized  in  purveying 
tabloid  information  relating  to  commerce  and  industry.  On  all  sides  one 
encountered  a  pervasive  brain-weariness  if  not  a  chronic  "soap-opera" 
mentality.  In  the  production  of  the  more  successful  periodicals  the  in- 
dividual author  was  eliminated.  Such  reading  matter  as  was  allowed  to 
intrude  on  the  illustrations  was  compiled,  phrased,  and  cut  to  space  by 
teams  of  specialists,  each  of  whom  performed  a  single  operation.  The  re- 
sulting articles  were  as  neatly  packaged  as  sides  of  beef  turned  out  by  a 
packing-house.  Here  as  elsewhere  the  techniques  of  mass  production 
triumphed  to  the  confounding  of  genuine  craftsmanship. 

The  sensitiveness  of  businessmen  to  criticism  or  to  any  expression  of 
opinion  which  may  "hurt  business"  has  also  been  manifested  in  the  maga- 
zine field.  During  the  first  decade  of  the  century  a  number  of  "muck- 
raking" monthlies,  notably  Everybody's,  McClure's,  the  Cosmopolitan, 
and  Hampton's  achieved  large  circulations  by  sensational  exposures  of 
the  sins  of  business.  The  conditions  revealed  by  the  investigators  cried 


978  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

out  for  reform,  and  reforms  were  instituted,  but  at  the  cost  of  acute 
discomfort  to  those  whose  ways  were  disturbed.  Theoretically  the  maga- 
zines should  have  prospered,  but  about  191 2  they  found  increasing  diffi- 
culty in  securing  the  bank  credit  on  which  thev  depended  and  their 
advertising  instead  of  responding  to  their  increased  circulation  inexpli- 
cably fell  off*.  It  was  made  clear  that  no  periodical  could  afford  to 
follow  a  policy  which  antagonized  the  business  community.  Fully  half 
of  the  reforming  magazines  were  discontinued.  The  survivors  abruptly 
ceased  to  promote  reforms. 

In  place  of  the  genteel  ban  on  vulgarity  the  twentieth  century  has 
witnessed  a  proliferation  of  organized  efforts  to  prevent  the  communica- 
tion of  ideas  and  attitudes  regarded  as  offensive  by  various  racial,  religious, 
and  political  groups.  Examples  of  all  kinds  will  readily  occur  to  anyone 
who  reads  the  daily  papers,  but  of  them  all  the  attempts  to  suppress 
vigorous  criticisms  of  our  social  and  political  institutions  make  the  most 
sorry  reading.  The  fact  that  the  United  States  was  founded  by  the  exercise 
of  the  right  of  revolution  seems  to  have  been  tacitly  forgotten,  particu- 
larly by  groups  nominally  dedicated  to  cherish  the  memory  of  our 
revolt  against  the  British  crown.  The  expression  of  radical  political  doc- 
trines and  even  the  discussion  of  reforms  becomes  less  and  less  possible 
as  the  country  hardens  year  by  year  in  a  set  pattern  of  opinion. 


The  increasing  inflexibility  of  the  public  mind  and  the  timidity  of 
business  interests  before  the  prospect  of  change  have  tended  to  alienate 
some  intellectuals  and  artists  from  the  people  in  general.  The  consequences 
have  been  doubly  disastrous.  The  people  have  lacked  the  stimulation, 
insight,  and  vision  which  if  supplied  by  sensitive  personalities  in  accepta- 
ble form  can  keep  the  masses  from  becoming  dull  and  sodden.  The  artists, 
freed  of  social  responsibility,  have  given  excessive  attention  to  technical 
niceties  and  innovations,  and  have  withdrawn  more  and  more  into  special 
groups  and  coteries.  In  so  far  as  this  situation  prevails  it  must  be  counted 
as  one  of  the  deplorable  features  of  the  modern  world. 

Among  writers  in  the  United  States  reaction  to  the  pressures  of  stand- 
ardization and  commercialism  has  taken  several  forms.  One  of  the  earliest 
and  most  successful  was  the  little  theatre  movement,  already  mentioned, 
which  had  the  advantage  of  somewhat  similar  experiments  in  Paris,  Mos- 
cow, London,  and  Dublin.  The  independent  theatres  abroad  were 
especially  concerned  to  present  plays  which  overstepped  convention, 
while  in  this  country  the  impulse  behind  the  movement  was  the  desire 
for  drama  in  any  form  after  the  vogue  of  moving  pictures  had  made  ob- 
solete the  small-town  theatre  and  the  road  company.  Many  of  the  earliest 
little  theatres  were  organized  by  amateur  groups,  possibly  with  profes- 
sional assistance,  but  a  few   of  the  best  such  as  Winthrop  Ames's  Little 


TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS  AND  PRESSURES  979 

Theatre  and  the  Washington  Square  Players  in  New  York  and  Maurice 
Brown's  Little  Theatre  in  Chicago  employed  professional  actors.  The 
Provincetown  Players  to  begin  with  appealed  to  summer  visitors  on  Cape 
Cod.  The  Hull  House  Players  were  affiliated  with  the  well-known  settle- 
ment house,  while  Professor  George  P.  Baker's  "47  Workshop"  at  Har- 
vard and  later  at  Yale  and  Professor  F.  H.  Koch's  Carolina  Playmakers 
at  Chapel  Hill  were  leading  examples  of  the  little  theatre  as  sponsored 
by  academic  groups. 

By  19 1 8  some  fifty  independent  theatres  of  one  kind  or  another  were 
operating  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  Six  years  later  their  number 
was  estimated  as  high  as  two  thousand.  Out  of  the  Washington  Square 
Players  emerged  the  Theatre  Guild,  which  has  at  times  been  able  to 
compete  on  even  terms  with  commercial  producers.  Permanent  com- 
munity theatres  have  also  been  established  in  such  centers  as  Pasadena, 
Cleveland,  Charleston,  New  Orleans,  Seattle,  Dallas,  and  elsewhere  as  a 
result  of  interest  aroused  by  local  dramatic  groups.  Their  activities,  which 
have  been  faithfully  chronicled  by  the  Theatre  Arts  magazine,  have  had 
no  small  effect  in"  stimulating  community  spirit.  The  Federal  Theatre 
Project,  created  by  the  W.P.A.  toward  the  end  of  the  depression  period 
and  sparked  by  the  dynamic  spirit  of  Hallie  Flanagan,  owed  much  to  the 
pioneer  work  already  accomplished  by  the  little  theatres,  and  in  turn 
contributed  some  radical  innovations,  such  as  "The  Living  Newspaper" 
and  the  documentary  play,  to  the  resources  of  the  drama. 

A  second  outlet  for  literary  insurgency  was  provided  by  a  proliferation 
of  publications  known  collectively  as  "little  magazines."  Following  in  the 
wake  of  the  Yellow  Book  and  the  Savoy  in  England,  a  few  art-for-art's- 
sake  periodicals  appeared  in  this  country,  notably  the  Bibelot  (1895-1915), 
issued  at  Portland,  Maine;  the  Chap-Book  (1894-98)  at  Chicago;  and  the 
Lark  (1895-97)  at  San  Francisco.  After  nearly  subsiding  for  a  decade  the 
little  magazine  was  revived  by  Harriet  Monroe's  Poetry:  A  Magazine  of 
Verse  (191 2-),  and  a  spate  of  more  ephemeral  or  less  well-subsidized 
publications  which,  it  was  waggishly  said,  "died  to  make  verse  free."  More 
substantial  support  of  advanced  tendencies  in  writing  was  supplied  by  the 
Little  Review  (1914-29),  which  exhibited  a  catholic  taste  for  experimenta- 
tion of  all  descriptions,  the  Seven  Arts  (19 16- 17),  which  attempted  a 
critical  survey  of  national  culture,  only  to  discover  that  the  government's 
war  effort  could  not  be  included  within  its  critical  purview,  and  the  Dial 
(1917-29),  which  tempered  its  radicalism  with  urbanity.  Regional  mani- 
festoes, of  which  the  Fugitive  (1922-25)  may  be  cited  as  a  favorable 
example,  and  a  host  of  expatriate  organs,  published  abroad,  such  as  Broom 
(1921-24),  transition  (1927-),  and  This  Quarter  (1925-32),  added  variety 
to  confusion.  The  chief  academic  exponent  of  the  movement,  Hound  and 
Horn  (1927-34),  was  not  essentially  different  in  its  aims  but  succeeded 
better  than  most  of  its  kind  in  bringing  them  to  fruition. 


98o  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

The  two  decades  from  191 2  to  1932  were  the  golden  age  of  the  little 
magazine.  The  financial  strains  of  the  depression  sapped  their  economic 
support,  and  the  shift  in  popular  interest  to  questions  of  a  political,  social, 
and  economic  nature  caused  most  of  them  to  abandon  the  field  to  the 
Partisan  Review  (1934-).  Their  mission,  however,  has  been  continued  in 
part  bv  quarterly  publications,  many  of  them  under  university  or  college 
sponsorship.  Among  the  best  known  of  these  are  the  Yale  Review  (1892-), 
the  Sewanee  Review  (1892-),  the  Virginia  Quarterly  Review  (192 5-), 
the  America?i  Scholar  (1931-),  the  Kenyon  Review  (1939-),  and  the 
Pacific  Spectator  ( 1947-).  Most  of  these  reviews  offer  a  not  too  munificent 
hospitality  to  literary  criticism,  particularly  of  the  advance-guard 
description. 

The  reviews,  large  or  little,  with  their  esoteric  interest  in  intellectual 
and  esthetic  matters  supplied  authors  with  a  medium  which  reached  only 
a  minute  fraction  of  the  American  public.5  The  mass-production  maga- 
zines, which  reached  millions,  generally  replaced  the  individual  author  by 
the  anonymous  editorial  staff.  Meanwhile  newspapers,  originally  the  most 
impersonal  of  organs,  began  to  use  more  and  more  signed  feature  articles, 
so  that  by  the  middle  of  the  twentieth  century  writers  who  wished  to 
address  the  largest  possible  number  of  readers  and  at  the  same  time  to  be 
well  paid  for  their  work  were  mainly  producing  articles  for  publication 
in  one  of  the  great  metropolitan  dailies  or  for  syndication  in  a  series  of 
newspapers.  A  great  deal  of  thoughtful  and  brilliant  writing,  by  analysts 
of  current  events,  book,  theatre,  and  radio  critics,  and  sports  commenta- 
tors, gained  a  wide  popular  hearing  in  this  way. 

Entering  wedge  for  the  individual  feature  article  in  the  daily  press  was 
the  "column,"  which  originated  in  the  Middle  West  and  briefly  captured 
an  eastern  metropolitan  audience  in  the  preradio  days  from  about  19 15  to 
1925.  Successful  columnists  like  Bert  Leston  Taylor  and  Franklin  P. 
Adams  were  sensitive  observers  and  recorders  of  the  talk  and  tempo  of 
the  town,  providing  a  constant  flow  of  light,  witty,  satirical  entertainment 
and  giving  their  readers  confidence  that  they  were  fully  abreast  of  the 
latest  jokes  and  the  most  up-to-date  locutions.  The  fiction  of  Ring  Lard- 
ner  and  Scott  Fitzgerald  drew  much  of  its  tone  from  the  best  work  of  the 
column  writers.  The  man  of  largest  stature  who  employed  the  column  as 
his  personal  vehicle  was  Don  Marquis  ( 1 878-1937),  ironist,  unpredictable 
creator  of  humorous  oddities,  and  humanist  with  a  profound  intuition  of 
tragic  undertones.  Later  variants  included  Christopher  Motley,  "caresser 
of  books,"  and  still  more  popular  writers,  who  furthered  the  transition 
from  the  newspaper  to  radio. 

The  vogue  of  the  column  rapidly  led  to  other  kinds  of  personal  jour- 

5  At  the  time  of  writing  the  America?!  Scholar  was  leading  the  list  with  a  circulation 
of  about  12,000  copies  per  number.  Few  of  the  scholarly  reviews  could  boast  a 
circulation  of  over  5,000. 


TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS  AND  PRESSURES  981 

nalism.  Serious  students  of  politics  like  Walter  Lippmann  found  the  news- 
paper a  more  effective  sounding-board  than  books  or  magazines.  The 
appraisal  of  books,  plays,  movies,  radio  and  television  programs  called  for 
the  services  of  specially  qualified  critics  who  signed  their  contributions. 
Other  personalized  features  were  concerned  with  sports,  gastronomy, 
people  about  town,  and  the  local  scene  in  general.  It  came  to  be  an 
accepted  thing  that  news  stories  of  special  importance  were  given  a  by- 
line, and  occasionally  a  series  of  special  stories  would  be  reprinted  as  a 
book.  Ernie  Pyle's  intensely  humanized  war  correspondence  may  serve  as 
a  typical  example.  Finally  the  newspaper  serialization  of  books  like  Eisen- 
hower's Crusade  in  Europe  indicates  the  extent  to  which  the  leading 
journals  have  made  themselves  a  microcosm  of  publishing  in  our  time. 
Some  of  the  picture  magazines,  Life  in  particular,  have  likewise  provided 
the  means  to  secure  extended  circulation  for  specially  important  books 
before  their  publication  between  covers.  The  printing  of  John  Hersey's 
Hiroshima  by  the  New  Yorker  gave  maximum  publicity  to  a  notable  piece 
of  reporting. 

The  amount  of  creative  energy  that  has  gone  into  the  general  field  of 
reportage  is  one  of  the  leading  literary  phenomena  of  the  mid-twentieth 
century.  A  favorite  branch  of  expert  journalism  is  the  extended  personal 
interview  to  which  the  name  "profile"  has  been  attached.  Originally  popu- 
larized by  the  New  Yorker,  which  has  printed  a  large  share  of  the  best 
short  prose  and  verse  of  the  period,  these  thumbnail  biographies  of  people 
in  the  public  eye  have  exactly  suited  the  taste  of  sophisticated  readers,  and 
the  manufacture  of  them  threatens  to  become  an  infant  industry. 

In  consequence  of  the  insatiable  public  demand  for  facts  the  character- 
istic books  of  the  period  have  been  informational  rather  than  creative. 
The  great  vogue  of  H.  G.  Wells's  Outline  of  History,  Will  Durant's  Story 
of  Philosophy,  and  many  other  compendiums  of  not  very  distinguished 
quality  have  demonstrated  that  readers  would  eagerly  accept  well-worn 
data  if  it  was  freshly  and  attractively  packaged.  Two  classes  of  factual 
books  especially,  biographies  and  war  books,  have  reflected  the  tastes  and 
preoccupations  of  the  age. 

The  timely  appearance  of  The  Education  of  Henry  Adams  just  at  the 
end  of  World  War  I  helped  to  turn  everyone's  attention  toward  the 
national  past.  Biography  ceased  to  be  one  of  the  dismal  arts  when  Lytton 
Strachey  in  his  Queen  Victoria  showed  how  a  somber  subject  might  be 
brightened  by  flickers  of  irony.  When  the  same  writer's  Eminent  Vic- 
torians was  reprinted  in  this  country,  hundreds  of  ambitious  young 
Americans  discovered  that  their  manifest  destiny  lay  in  removing  the 
patina  of  myth  from  the  popular  idols  of  the  past.  Hence  a  rash  of  "de- 
bunking" biographies  broke  out  during  the  nineteen-twenties.  When  the 
rage  for  violent  reversals  of  esteem  had  spent  itself,  there  remained  a 
genuine  curiosity  about  the  people  of  the  nineteenth  century,  which  was 


982  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

reflected  also  in  a  modified  appreciation  of  Victorian  taste  in  interior 
decoration.  Almost  all  the  statesmen,  soldiers,  poets,  novelists,  inventors, 
industrial  magnates,  and  other  notable  figures  of  the  century  were  re- 
examined in  the  light  of  modern  methods  of  investigation.  Though  some 
recent  illuminations,  notably  those  connected  with  Freudian  psychology, 
were  perhaps  excessively  utilized,  the  effort  produced  a  long  series  of 
really  excellent  biographical  studies,  which  have  contributed  important 
elements  to  our  knowledge  not  only  of  our  immediate  past  but  of  what  we 
ourselves  are. 

The  fact  that  practically  every  citizen  of  the  United  States  over  thirty 
years  old  is  conscious  that  the  conditions  of  his  life  have  been  drastically 
altered  by  one  or  both  the  World  Wars  is  a  sufficient  reason  for  the  inter- 
est in  books  describing  the  fighting  while  fighting  was  going  on  and  trac- 
ing the  causes  and  consequences  of  war  when  the  armies  have  been  de- 
mobilized. Great  national  convulsions  in  general  are  not  favorable  to  the 
production  of  great  literature,  but  the  vast  number  of  ephemeral  war 
books  consumed  by  the  American  public  was  undoubtedly  a  factor  in 
confirming  the  taste  for  purely  informational  reading.  It  is  a  safe  guess  that 
Ernie  Pyle's  Brave  Men,  John  Hersey's  A  Bell  for  Adcmo  and  Hiroshima, 
and  the  humanly  appealing  cartoons  of  Bill  Mauldin's  Up  Front  will 
remain  among  the  permanent  memorials  of  the  crisis  of  1941-45. 

Innovations  in  communication  introduced  during  the  first  half  of  the 
twentieth  century  have  not  yet  developed  their  full  potentialities  for  good 
or  evil.  Moving  pictures,  at  first  silent,  then  accompanied  by  sound,  the 
radio,  and  just  at  the  end  of  the  period,  television,  open  possibilities  of 
influencing  millions  of  people  by  media  more  potent  than  print.  Future 
historians  of  literature  may  have  reason  to  describe  one  or  more  of  these 
inventions  as  epoch-making,  but  at  the  present  moment  their  relation  to 
literary  art  cannot  be  said  to  be  more  than  peripheral. 

The  techniques  of  motion-picture  photography,  particularly  the  fact 
that  the  camera  cannot  be  kept  in  continuous  operation  for  more  than  four 
minutes,  determined  some  fundamental  differences  between  the  presenta- 
tion of  a  story  on  the  screen  and  on  the  stage.  The  movie  script  had  to 
consist  of  a  series  of  relatively  brief  "shots,"  which  might  be  combined 
into  a  "continuity"  when  necessary,  but  which  implied  that  the  rapid 
shifts  of  focus  or  scene  should  not  be  merely  casual.  In  compensation  for 
its  basic  restlessness,  the  movie  gained  complete  flexibility  in  space  and 
time.  The  latter  freedom  especially  was  to  have  important  repercussions 
on  the  legitimate  drama,  which  soon  became  intensely  time-conscious,  if 
not  time-stricken. 

Though  a  number  of  movie  scripts  have  been  published  since  the  sound- 
track made  dialogue  possible,  none  to  date  have  challenged  the  pre- 
eminence of  the  stage  play  as  a  literary  form.  The  principal  reason  is  that 
the  movie  is  produced  as  an  entertainment  for  the  millions,  and  the  mass- 


TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS  AND  PRESSURES  983 

mind  of  America  has  not  yet  been  educated  to  appreciate  or  desire  the 
high  tension  of  great  artistry  in  its  moments  of  recreation.  Most  often  it 
asks  only  relaxation  which  will  require  no  effort  of  close  attention.  Con- 
sequently the  intellectual  level  at  which  movie  production  aims  is  that  of 
the  broadest  possible  public,  which  seldom  exceeds  the  capacity  of  the 
twelve-year-old.  This  limitation  does  not  exclude  the  presentation  of 
serious  subjects  nor  the  exercise  of  incredible  ingenuity  in  the  creation  of 
comic  effects,  but  it  does  exercise  an  almost  irresistible  pressure  toward 
immaturity. 

For  the  present  the  few  who  enjoy  grown-up  movies  must  either  resign 
themselves  to  long  intervals  of  waiting  or  else  seek  out  the  best  foreign 
films.  The  fact  that  an  occasional  Hollywood  product  may  possess  socio- 
logical, historical,  or  artistic  interest  is  a  tribute  to  the  indestructible  vital- 
ity  of  the  human  mind,  which  under  the  most  unfavorable  conditions  still 
refuses  to  abdicate  its  functions.  The  system  of  having  movie  scripts  con- 
structed impersonally  by  a  corps  of  writers  employed  by  the  producer  is 
another  factor  which  inevitably  operates  to  promote  and  preserve  the 
ordinariness  of  screen-plays.  The  moving  picture  will  not  deserve  to  be 
called  a  form  of  art  until  the  individual  script  writer  is  recognized  as  the 
crucially  important  factor  in  the  attainment  of  distinction. 

What  may  be  said  of  the  movie  applies  with  double  force  to  the  radio 
script,  which  of  all  the  forms  of  communication  in  the  United  States  is 
the  most  common,  in  both  the  plain  and  the  pejorative  senses  of  the  word. 
Dominated  from  the  beginning  by  commercialism,  the  radio  has  conferred 
only  one  blessing  on  the  public:  it  has  brought  excellent  music  into  every 
home.  Otherwise  its  offerings  have  degraded  the  spoken  word  to  the  level 
of  soap  operas  and  quiz  contests,  with  a  few  feeble  and  unconvincing 
efforts  to  adapt  the  medium  to  literary  uses.  Archibald  MacLeish's  radio 
dramas  occupy  a  lonely  eminence  which  has  rarely  been  challenged  by 
other  capable  writers. 

It  is  still  too  early  to  say  what  television  may  be  good  for  beyond  the 
visual  reproduction  of  baseball  games  and  prizefights  in  every  metropolitan 
barroom.  No  doubt  the  ten  million  sets  now  alleged  to  have  invaded  our 
homes  may  have  some  eventual  influence  on  the  domestic  manners  of  the 
Americans.  There  are  obvious  possibilities  for  dramatic  production  under 
conditions  which  relieve  the  actor  of  some  of  the  unspeakable  boredom 
inseparable  from  movie  acting— though  as  yet  at  a  salary  range  which 
would  be  beneath  the  notice  of  a  Hollywood  star.  Whether  these  possibili- 
ties will  be  developed  and  will  meet  with  public  acceptance  remains  an 
open  question. 

Historians  of  all  descriptions  who  carry  the  record  down  to  the  moment 
of  writing  have  not  uncommonly  concluded  their  labors  by  a  hopeful 
glance  at  the  future.  But  if  the  historian  of  American  letters  recalls  the 
happy  anticipations  of  a  stable  and  increasingly  liberal  world  which  could 


984  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

not  unreasonably  be  entertained  in  1900,  and  contrasts  them  with  the  best 
prospects  available  in  1950,  he  is  not  likely  to  indulge  in  easy  optimism. 
It  may  be  that  the  civilization  of  the  West  is  undergoing  the  decline  that 
gloomy  prophets  have  predicted,  and  that  a  new  Dark  Ages  of  totalitarian 
predominance  will  put  an  end  to  the  precarious  freedoms  of  speculation 
and  expression  which  the  last  few  centuries  have  enjoyed.  Without  much 
trouble  we  can  envisage,  as  George  Orwell  has  recently  done  in  Nineteen 
Eighty-Four,  an  ant-hill  collectivism  which  savagely  represses  any  tend- 
ency to  individual  independence  of  thought  or  action.  For  such  a  society 
an  appropriate  literature  might  be  produced  by  mechanical  brains  resem- 
bling super-kaleidoscopes. 

Yet  there  are  considerations  which  may  offset  such  dark  imaginings. 
One  is  that  the  generation  coming  of  age  in  1950  holds  no  illusions  of  an 
easy  life  ahead.  In  that  respect  the  young  men  and  women  of  today  enjoy 
an  enormous  advantage  over  the  rising  generation  of  1900,  which  was  as 
badly  prepared  as  possible  to  face  a  half-century  of  insecurity  and  war. 
More  important  still,  the  Americans  of  the  next  fifty  years  have  behind 
them  a  tradition  of  democratic  liberalism  which  they  now  know  cannot 
be  left  to  take  care  of  itself  but  which  they  must  guard  and  extend  if  it  is 
not  to  perish  from  the  earth.  Perhaps  the  things  we  value  most,  good  faith 
among  men,  human  decency,  and  a  respect  for  individual  rights  have  never 
had  more  than  a  fighting  chance  for  survival.  If  so,  they  have  it  still,  and 
the  challenge  of  that  conflict  must  spur  the  creative  energies  of  American 
writers  for  years  to  come  to  maintain  and  magnify  their  inheritance  of 
freedom. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Bibliography 


This  bibliography  has  been  made  strictly  selective.  Writings  upon  American 
Literature  have  been  so  often  temporary,  fugitive,  journalistic,  or  derivative, 
that  it  is  believed  that  students  will  welcome  guidance  of  a  positive  character 
which  provides  them  with  standard  works  and  in  general  avoids  negative 
criticism  by  the  simple  process  of  omission. 

In  Chapter  bibliographies,  the  usual  order  has  been  followed,  placing  under 
each  author,  Bibliographies,  Works,  Letters,  Biographies,  and  Criticism.  In 
every  instance,  the  object  of  the  Bibliography  has  been  to  furnish  help  to  the 
student  and  not  to  sacrifice  usefulness  to  mere  uniformity. 

Note:  The  place  of  publication,  when  not  indicated,  is  NEW  YORK.  "Cam- 
bridge" is  Cambridge,  Mass.  unless  "England"  is  specified.  Titles  of  some  maga- 
zines and  serial  publications  have  been  shortened  to  obvious  abbreviations  but 
the  following  initials  have  been  used  for  standard  references: 

CHAL- -Cambridge  History  of  American  Literature 

LHUS— Literary  History  of  the  United  States 

DAB— Dictionary  of  American  Biography 

DNB— Dictionary  of  National  Biography  (English) 

F  ML  A— Publications  of  the  Modern  Language  Association  of  America 

A  M  of  L— American  Men  of  Letters  (original  series) 

E  M  of  L— English  Men  of  Letters 

BIBLIOGRAPHIES 

The  most  complete  bibliographies  are  those  in  the  Literary  History  of  the 
United  States,  Vol.  3  (1948),  hereafter  known  as  LHUS.  Bibliographies  in 
The  Cambridge  History  of  American  Literature,  hereafter  known  as  CHAL 
(1917-21),  are  still  useful.  Practical  assistance  is  given  by  Catalogue  of  Copy- 
right Entries,  published  by  the  Library  of  Congress,  and  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress cards.  Students  may  receive  on  request  copies  on  card  or  microfilm  of 
the  authors  contained  in  a  file  of  creative  literature,  at  the  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania, which  is  described  by  A.  H.  Quinn  and  E.  H.  O'Neill,  "The  Bibliog- 
raphy of  American  Literature  at  Philadelphia,"  Journal  of  Documentation, 
London,  Vol.  3  (Dec.  1947),  pp.  177-187.  For  extensive  bibliographical  informa- 
tion see  Bibliotheca  Americana:  A  Dictionary  of  Books  Relating  to  America, 
from  its  Discovery  to  the  Present  Time,  begun  by  Joseph  Sabin  and  continued 
by  Wilberforce  Eames  and  R.  G.  W.  Vail  for  the  Bibliographical  Society  of 
America,  complete  in  29  Vols,  in  1936.  For  current  periodical  bibliographies, 
see  American  Literature,  and  The  Annual  Bibliography  in  PMLA.  Valuable 
for  students  are  (1)  The  Library  of  Congress  Quarterly  Journal  of  Current 
Acquisitions,  which  began  in  August,  1949,  to  publish  revised  lists  of  Current 

987 


988  THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 

National  Bibliographies;  and  (2)  More  Books:  The  Bulletin  of  the  Boston 
Public  Library,  published  monthly,  which  became  in  July,  1949,  the  Boston 
Public  Library  Quarterly.  In  the  latter,  the  descriptive  catalogue  of  the 
correspondence  of  R.  W.  Griswold,  beginning  in  More  Books,  March,  1941,  of 
which  thirteen  installments  have  appeared,  is  valuable.  Useful  bibliographies  in 
special  fields  are  E.  H.  O'Neill,  Biography  by  Americans,  1658-1936:  A  Subject 
Bibliography  (Philadelphia,  1939);  Clarence  S.  Brigham,  History  and  Bibliog- 
raphy of  American  Newspapers,  1690-1820,  2  Vols.  (Worcester,  1947);  and 
Lewis  Leary,  ed.,  Articles  on  American  Literature  Appearing  in  Current 
Periodicals,  1920-1945  (Durham,  N.  C,  1947). 

HISTORY    AND    CRITICISM 

The  most  complete  histories  are  The  Cambridge  History  of  American 
Literature  (CHAL),  ed.  W.  P.  Trent,  John  Erskine,  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  and 
Carl  Van  Doren,  4  Vols.  (191 7-21),  and  Literary  History  of  the  United 
States  (LHUS),  ed.  by  Robert  E.  Spiller,  Willard  Thorp,  Thomas  H.  Johnson, 
and  Henry  S.  Canby,  3  Vols.  (1948).  Each  has  a  large  number  of  contributors, 
with  the  interest  and  the  variations  in  merit  and  in  point  of  view  consequent 
upon  such  a  plan.  An  interesting  series  of  monographs  is  The  Pageant  of 
America,  a  series  of  volumes  profusely  illustrated,  dealing  with  American 
Civilization  (Yale  University  Press).  Of  these,  the  most  important  for  our 
purpose  are:  Stanley  T.  Williams,  The  American  Spirit  in  Letters,  Vol.  2 
(1926);  O.  S.  Coad  and  Edwin  Mims,  Jr.,  The  American  Stage,  Vol.  14  (1929); 
L.  A.  Weigle,  American  ldealis?n,  Vol.  10  (1928);  F.  J.  Mather,  Jr.,  Charles 
R.  Morey,  and  W.  J.  Henderson,  The  American  Spirit  in  Art,  Vol.  12  (1927); 
T.  F.  Hamlin,  The  Americccn  Spirit  in  Architecture,  Vol.  13  (1926).  Among 
histories  by  individuals,  see  Vernon  L.  Parrington,  Main  Currents  in  American 
Thought,  3  Vols.  (1927-30);  Russell  Blankenship,  American  Literature  as  an 
Expression  of  the  National  Mind  (1931);  A.  H.  Quinn,  The  Soul  of  America: 
Yesterday  and  Today  (Philadelphia,  1932);  R.  H.  Gabriel,  The  Course  of 
American  Democratic  Thought  (1940);  Merle  E.  Curti,  The  Growth  of 
American  Thought  (1943).  Still  of  historical  value  are,  Barrett  Wendell,  A 
Literary  History  of  America  (1900),  and  W.  P.  Trent,  A  History  of  American 
Literature,  1607-1865  (1903).  The  standard  treatment  of  magazines  is  Frank 
L.  Mott,  A  History  of  American  Magazines,  Vol.  1,  1741-1850  (1930),  Vol.  2, 
1850-1865,  and  Vol.  3,  1865-1885  (Cambridge,  1938). 

The  most  useful  of  the  sectional  literary  accounts  are,  Bliss  Perry,  Park 
Street  Papers  (Boston,  1908);  Edward  W.  Emerson,  The  Early  Years  of  the 
Saturday  Club  (Boston,  1919);  M.  A.  DeWolfe  Howe,  The  Atlantic  Monthly 
and  Its  Makers  (Boston,  1919);  Van  Wyck  Brooks,  The  Flowering  of  New 
England  (1936);  E.  P.  Oberholtzer,  The  Literary  History  of  Philadelphia 
(Philadelphia,  1906);  James  W.  Davidson,  The  Living  Writers  of  the  South, 
a  valuable  book  (1869);  C.  Holliday,  History  of  Southern  Literature  (Wash- 
ington, 1906);  Virginius  Dabney,  Below  the  Potomac  (1942);  Ralph  L.  Rusk, 
Literature  of  the  Middle  Western  Frontier,  2  Vols.  (1925);  Dorothy  A. 
Dondore,  The  Prairie  and  the  Making  of  Middle  America  (Cedar  Rapids, 
Iowa,  1926);  and  Lucy  L.  Hazard,  The  Frontier  in  American  Literature  (1927, 


GENERAL  BIBLIOGRAPHY  989 

rev.  edition,  1941).  A  penetrating  analysis  of  the  treatment  of  sectional  litera- 
ture is  found  in  J.  B.  Hubbell,  "The  Old  South  in  Literary  Histories,"  South 
Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  48  (July,  1949),  pp.  452-467. 

The  most  stimulating  of  the  critical  surveys  are,  E.  C.  Stedman,  Poets  of 
America  (Boston,  1885);  George  E.  Woodberry,  America  in  Literature  (1903); 
W.  D.  Howells,  Literary  Friends  and  Aquaintance  (1901);  W.  C.  Brownell, 
American  Prose  Masters  (1909);  Bliss  Perry,  The  American  Spirit  in  Literature 
(New  Haven,  1919);  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  Americans  (1922).  For  general 
historical  background,  see  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger  and  Dixon  Ryan  Fox,  eds., 
A  History  of  American  Life,  12  Vols.  (1945). 

Works  of  value  in  special  fields  include  H.  L.  Mencken,  The  American 
Language  (1919,  rev.  edition,  1937);  Dixon  Wecter,  The  Saga  of  American 
Society,  1607-1937  ( 1937);  Clarence  Gohdes,  American  Literature  in  Nineteenth- 
Century  England  (1944);  R.  E.  Spiller,  The  American  in  England  During  the 
First  Half  Century  of  Independence  (1926);  H.  M.  Jones,  America  and  French 
Culture,  1750-1858  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1927);  Constance  Rourke,  American 
Humor  (1931);  F.  W.  Conner,  Cosmic  Optimism:  A  Study  of  the  Interpreta- 
tion of  Evolution  by  American  Poets  from  Emerson  to  Robinson  (Gainesville, 
Fla.,  1949);  and  H.  Lehmann-Haupt,  The  Book  in  America  (1939). 

Among  many  articles  of  a  general  nature  are,  Stanley  T.  Williams,  "Tradition 
and  Rebellion:  European  Patterns  in  the  Literature  of  America"  and  Charles 
Cestre,  "A  Century  of  American  Poetry,"  both  read  at  the  Bicentennial  Con- 
ference at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia,  1941);  "The  Early 
History  of  Science  and  Learning  in  America,"  a  series  of  illustrated  articles 
on  early  American  architecture,  historical  writing,  painting,  etc.,  Amer.  Phil. 
Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  87  (June  14,  1943);  Phases  of  American  Culture,  five  papers 
read  at  meeting  at  Georgetown  University,  Sept.,  1941  (Worcester,  1943); 
and  Foreign  Influences  in  American  Life,  ed.  D.  F.  Bowers  (Princeton,  1944). 

FICTION 

For  bibliography  of  the  novel,  see  Oscar  Wegelin,  Early  American  Fiction 
(Stanford,  Calif.,  1902,  rev.  edition,  1913)  and  Lyle  H.  Wright,  American 
Fiction,  1774-1850  (Huntington  Library,  Calif.,  1939,  rev.  edition,  1948).  The 
standard  histories  are:  for  novel  alone,  Carl  Van  Doren,  The  American  Novel 
(192 1,  rev.  edition,  1940)  and  Contemporary  American  Novelists,  1900-1920 
(1922);  for  both  novel  and  short  story,  A.  H.  Quinn,  American  Fiction  (1936); 
for  short  story  alone,  F.  L.  Pattee,  The  Development  of  the  American  Short 
Story  (1923).  All  contain  selective  bibliographies.  See  also  Alexander  Cowie, 
The  Rise  of  the  American  Novel  (1948).  For  special  treatments  see  Alice  J. 
DuBreuil,  The  Novel  of  Democracy  in  America  (Baltimore,  1923)  and  George 
Dunlap,  The  City  in  the  American  Novel  (Philadelphia,  1934).  For  lists  of 
short  stories,  see  Alexander  Jessup,  Representative  American  Short  Stories 
(1923),  containing  a  valuable  list  of  American  short  stories  arranged  by  authors 
and  also  by  years,  and  Ina  T.  Firkins,  Index  to  Short  Stories  (191 5  and  1923; 
second  supplement,  1936).  Published  lists  are  E.  J.  O'Brien,  The  Best  Short 
Stories  of  1915  and  the  Year  Book  of  the  Short  Story  (Boston,  1915.  Issued 
annually  since.  Now  edited  by  Martha  Foley),  and  Blanche  C.  Williams,  Best 


99° 


THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  PEOPLE 


American  Stories,  since  1919,  collected  in  1926  and  again  in  1933.  (Selections 
from  O'Henry  Memorial  Prize  Winning  Stories.  Now  edited  by  Harry 
Hansen). 

DRAMA 

The  pioneer  in  bibliography  of  the  drama  was  Oscar  Wegelin,  Early 
American  Plays,  1714-1830  (1900,  rev.  edition,  1905).  This  has  been  partly 
superseded  by  F.  P.  Hill,  American  Plays  Printed,  1714-1830  (Stanford,  Calif., 
1934).  An  extensive  Bibliography  of  Regional  Drama  is  given  in  Felix  Sper, 
From  Native  Roots  (Caldwell,  Ida.,  1948).  The  most  complete  bibliographies 
and  play  lists  are  given  in  the  standard  histories,  A.  H.  Quinn,  A  History  of 
the  American  Drama  from  the  Beginning  to  the  Civil  War  (1923,  rev.  edition, 
1943),  and  A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Civil  War  to  the 
Present  Day  (1927,  rev.  edition,  1936).  A  bibliography  of  the  American  Theatre 
is  found  with  the  Bibliography  of  Chapter  26  in  the  present  volume. 

POETRY 

A  bibliography  of  value  is  Oscar  Wegelin,  Early  American  Poetry  (1903, 
rev.  edition,  1930).  An  important  critical  survey  up  to  1885  is  E.  C.  Stedman, 
Poets  of  America.  No  adequate  comprehensive  history  of  American  Poetry  has 
been  published.  Students  should  consult  Chapter  Bibliographies  for  guidance 
concerning  special  periods  or  individual  poets. 

BIOGRAPHIES 

For  Biography  see,  for  general  survey,  E.  H.  O'Neill,  A  History  of  American 
Biography,  1800-193$  (Philadelphia,  1935).  Of  the  various  series  of  individual 
biographies  of  American  writers,  the  best  is  still  the  American  Men  of  Letters 
(A  M  of  L),  ed.  by  Charles  Dudley  Warner,  not  to  be  confused  with  a  later 
series  by  the  same  name.  Individual  volumes  are  given  in  the  Chapter  bibliog- 
raphies. Brief  biographies  are  best  found  in  the  Dictionary  of  American 
Biography,  ed.  by  Allen  Johnson  and  Dumas  Malone,  20  Vols.  (1928-36.  Here- 
after known  as  DAB.) 


PART  I 

The  Colonial  and  Revolutionary  Period 

Joseph  Sabin,  Bibliotheca  Americana  (p.  987  above),  has  much  bibliographical 
material  for  this  period.  Charles  Evans,  American  Bibliography  (Chicago, 
1903-34),  Vols.  1-6,  lists  books,  pamphlets,  and  periodical  publications  printed 
in  the  colonies  and  the  United  States  to  1785.  Willard  O.  Waters,  "American 
Imprints,  1648- 1797,"  in  Huntington  Library  Bulletin,  no.  3  (Cambridge, 
1933),  pp.  1-95,  lists  some  titles  omitted  by  Evans. 

The  only  large-scale  histories  of  American  colonial  literature  are  Moses  C. 
Tyler,  A  History  of  American  Literature,  1607-176$  (1878),  and  The  Literary 
History  of  the  American  Revolution,  1763-1783  (1897).  The  former  has  been 
reissued  (Ithaca,  1949),  with  notes  giving  the  variant  readings  in  its  various 
editions,  and  a  new  edition  of  the  latter  is  to  be  brought  out  by  the  Cornell 
University  Press.  Both  of  Tyler's  histories  are  masterly  achievements,  and 
although  later  scholars  have  added  new  material,  are  not  likely  ever  to  be 
completely  superseded. 

Useful  anthologies  are  Colonial  Prose  and  Poetry,  ed.  William  P.  Trent  and 
Benjamin  W.  Wells  (1901),  Selections  from  Early  American  Writers,  1607- 
1800,  ed.  William  B.  Cairns  (191 7),  A  Library  of  American  Literature,  ed. 
Edmund  C.  Stedman  and  Ellen  M.  Hutchinson  (1888-90),  Vols.  1-3,  and  The 
Roots  of  National  Culture,  American  Literature  to  1830,  ed.  Robert  E.  Spiller 
and  Harold  Blodgett  (rev.  edition,  1949),  which  contains  valuable  notes  and 
brief  bibliographies. 

CHAPTER    I 

THE  BACKGROUND  OF  COLONIAL 
LITERATURE 

For  the  early  history  of  the  colonies  see  the  relevant  chapters  in  Edward 
Channing,  History  of  the  United  States  (1905-25),  Vols.  1-2  and  Samuel  E. 
Morison  and  Henry  S.  Commager,  The  Growth  of  the  American  Republic, 
(3rd  edition,  1942),  Vol.  1.  The  best  large  history  is  Charles  M.  Andrews,  The 
Colonial  Period  of  American  History  (New  Haven,  1934-38).  Herbert  L. 
Osgood,  The  American  Colonies  in  the  Seventeenth  Century  (1904-7)  is  also 
valuable.  The  best  one-volume  history  is  Curtis  P.  Nettels,  The  Roots  of 
American  Civilization:  A  History  of  American  Colonial  Life  (1938).  Louis 
B.  Wright,  The  Atlantic  Frontier:  Colonial  American  Civilization  (1947)  is 
especially  helpful  to  students  of  literary  backgrounds  because  it  is  specifically 
concerned  with  social  conditions  which  affected  literature  and  the  arts.  Useful 
in  the  same  way  are  Thomas  J.  Wertenbaker,  The  First  Americans,  1607-1690 

991 


992  THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

(1927)  and  his  The  Old  South  (1942)  and  The  Middle  Colonies  (1938),  and 
Harvey  Wish,  Society  and  Thought  in  America  (1950),  Vol.  1.  Chaps.  1-5  in 
Merle  E.  Curti,  The  Growth  of  American  Thought  (1943)  deal  with  the  intel- 
lectual life  of  the  colonies. 

On  individual  colonies  see  in  addition  to  the  relevant  sections  of  the  books 
already  listed:  Matthew  P.  Andrews,  Virginia:  The  Old  Dominio?i  (1937), 
The  Founding  of  Maryland  (Baltimore,  1933),  and  History  of  Maryland: 
Province  and  State  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1929);  Samuel  Ashe,  History  of 
North  Carolina  (Greensboro,  N.  C,  1908),  Vol.  1;  Frederick  P.  Bowes,  The 
Culture  of  Early  Charleston  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1942);  Ellis  M.  Coulter,  A 
Short  History  of  Georgia  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1933);  Wayland  F.  Dunaway,  A 
History  of  Pennsylvania  (1935);  Sydney  G.  Fisher,  The  Quaker  Colonies 
(New  Haven,  1920);  History  of  the  State  of  New  York,  ed.  Alexander  C. 
Flick  (1933-37);  Amandus  Johnson,  The  Swedish  Settlements  on  the  Delaware 
(Philadelphia,  191 1);  Rufus  M.  Jones,  The  Quakers  in  the  American  Colonies 
(London,  191 1);  Ellis  L.  Raesly,  Portrait  of  New  Netherland  (1945);  David 
D.  Wallace,  The  History  of  South  Carolina  (1934);  Louis  B.  Wright,  The 
First  Gentlemen  of  Virginia  (San  Marino,  Calif.,  1940).  See  also  the  recent 
and  thorough  Wesley  F.  Craven,  The  Southern  Colonies  in  the  Seventeenth 
Century,  1607-1689  (Baton  Rouge,  La.,  1949). 

For  early  New  England  see  the  excellent  bibliographies  in  The  Puritans,  ed. 
Thomas  H.  Johnson  and  Perry  Miller  (1938).  John  G.  Palfrey,  History  of 
New  England  (Boston,  1858-90),  is  still  useful.  James  T.  Adams,  The  Found- 
ing of  New  England  (Boston,  192 1),  is  inaccurate  and  prejudiced  but  pro- 
vocative. 

On  motives  for  colonization  and  the  character  of  the  early  settlers  see  the 
relevant  sections  of  the  books  already  cited,  and  Carl  L.  Becker,  Beginnings  of 
the  American  People  (Boston,  1 9 1 5 ) ;  Chaps.  1  and  2  of  Marcus  L.  Hansen, 
The  Atlantic  Migration,  1607-1860,  ed.  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger  (Cambridge, 
1940);  Howard  M.  Jones,  "The  Colonial  Impulse"  in  Amer.  Phil.  Soc.  Proc, 
Vol.  90,  no.  2  (Philadelphia,  1946),  pp.  131-161;  Herbert  I.  Priestley,  The 
Coming  of  the  White  Man,  1492-1848  (1929);  Louis  B.  Wright,  The  First 
Gentlemen  of  Virginia  (San  Marino,  Calif.,  1940),  and  Religion  and  Empire: 
The  Alliance  between  Piety  and  Commerce  in  English  Expansion,  1  $$8-162$ 
(Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1943). 

The  Cambridge  History  of  the  British  Empire,  Vol.  1:  The  Old  Empire 
from  the  Beginnings  to  1783  (Cambridge,  England,  1929),  is  useful  for  the 
English  historical  background  of  colonization  and  has  good  bibliographies. 
See  also  Edward  P.  Cheyney,  European  Background  of  American  History 
(1904).  Louis  B.  Wright,  Middle-Class  Culture  in  Elizabethan  England 
(Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1935),  sheds  much  light  on  the  character  of  the  first 
English  settlers.  Helpful  material  for  the  study  of  the  religious  factor  in  the 
settling  of  the  colonies  may  be  found  in  Thomas  C.  Hall,  The  Religious  Back- 
ground of  American  Culture  (Boston,  1930);  Perry  Miller,  Orthodoxy  in 
Massachusetts  (Cambridge,  1933),  The  New  England  Mind:  The  Seventeenth 
Century  (1939),  and  his  "The  Religious  Impulse  in  the  Founding  of  Virginia: 
Religion  and  Society  in  the  Early  Literature"  and  "Religion  and  Society  in 
the  Early  Literature:  The  Religious  Impulse  in  the  Founding  of  Virginia"  in 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY 


993 


Wm.  and  Mary  Quart.,  Vol.  5  (Oct.  1948),  pp.  492-522,  and  Vol.  6  (Jan.  1949), 
pp.   24-41. 

See  also  the  relevant  parts  of  the  volumes  on  the  various  denominations  and 
sects  in  The  American  Church  History  Series,  ed.  Philip  SchafT  et  al. 
(1893-97),  and  William  W.  Sweet,  Religion  in  Colonial  America  (1942). 

CHAPTER    2 

EARLY  TRAVELLERS  AND  OBSERVERS 

Useful  bibliographies  for  this  chapter  are  in  CHAL,  bibliographies  to  Book  1, 
Chaps.  1  and  2;  Elizabeth  Baer,  Seventeenth  Century  Maryland:  A  Bibliography 
(Baltimore,  1949);  Bernard  C.  Steiner,  "Descriptions  of  Maryland,"  in  Johns 
Hopkins  Univ.  Stud,  in  Hist,  and  Pol.  Sci.,  series  22,  nos.  11-12  (Baltimore, 
1904);  Lawrence  C.  Wroth,  "The  Maryland  Colonization  Tracts"  in  Essays 
Offered  to  Herbert  Putnam  . . .  (New  Haven,  1929),  pp.  539-555;  and  R.  W.  G. 
Vail,  The  Voice  of  the  Old  Frontier  (Philadelphia,  1949),  which  contains  "A 
Bibliography  of  North  American  Frontier  Literature,  1542- 1800,"  pp.  84-466, 
and  also  essays  on  "The  Pioneer's  Own  Story"  and  "The  Frontier  Land  Agents 
Offer  their  Wares,"  pp.  1-22,  62-79.  There  is  also  bibliographical  material  in 
Howard  M.  Jones,  The  Literature  of  Virginia  in  the  Seventeenth  Century, 
in  Mem.  of  the  Amer.  Acad,  of  Arts  and  Sci.,  Vol.  19,  part  2  (Boston,  1946). 
Useful  collections  of  writings  by  early  travellers  and  observers  are  the  volumes 
of  the  Original  Narratives  of  Early  American  History  series,  which  also 
contain  some  bibliographical  and  biographical  information.  DNB  has  similar 
material  on  some  of  the  writers  discussed. 

LHUS  has  a  brief  bibliography  on  Captain  John  Smith.  See  also  DAB  and 
DNB.  There  is  a  detailed  bibliographical  study  by  Wilberforce  Eames  in 
Joseph  Sabin's  Bibliotheca  Americana.  The  best  collected  edition  of  Smith  is 
Travels  and  Works  of  Captain  John  Smith,  ed.  Edward  Arber  and  Arthur  G. 
Bradley  (Edinburgh,  1910).  Some  modern  reprints  of  individual  works  are: 
The  Generall  Historie  (Glasgow,  1907);  A  Map  of  Virginia  in  Narratives  of 
Early  Virginia,  1606-162$,  ed.  Lyon  G.  Tyler  (1907);  A  True  Relation,  in 
same,  pp.  30-71;  and  The  True  Travels  . . . ,  ed.  John  G.  Fletcher  and  Lawrence 
C.  Wroth  (1930).  There  is  no  satisfactory  biography  but  the  best  recent  one 
is  John  G.  Fletcher,  John  Smith— Also  Pocahontas  (1928).  See  also  DAB  and 
DNB,  and  the  pages  on  Smith  in  Samuel  E.  Morison,  Builders  of  the  Bay 
Colony  (Boston,  1930),  Chap.  1.  For  the  debate  about  Smith's  truth-telling,  see 
Jarvis  M.  Morse,  "John  Smith  and  his  Critics:  A  Chapter  in  Colonial  Historiog- 
raphy" in  Journal  of  South.  Hist,  Vol.  1  (May,  1935),  pp.  123-137.  There  are 
good  comments  on  Smith  as  a  writer  in  Tyler's  History  (p.  991  above)  and 
Jones's  The  Literature. 

There  are  sketches  of  John  Pory  in  DAB  and  DNB.  See  also  Jones,  The 
Literature,  pp.  26-27.  His  letter,  quoted  in  the  text,  is  printed  in  Narratives  of 
Early  Virginia. 

The  life  of  William  Strachey  is  briefly  treated  in  DAB  and  DNB.  Some 
new  facts  are  added  by  Charles  R.  Sanders,  "William  Strachey,  the  Virginia 
Colony  and  Shakespeare"  in  Va.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and  Biog.,  Vol.  57  (April,  1949), 


994  THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

pp.  1 15-132.  For  the  Colony  in  Virginea  Britannia.  Lawes  Divine,  Morall  and 
Martiall,  &c.  (London,  161 2)  is  reprinted  in  Tracts  and  Other  Papers,  Relating 
. .  .to  the  Origin,  Settlement,  and  Progress  of  the  Colonies  . . . ,  ed.  Peter  Force 
(Washington,  1836-47),  available  in  a  reprint  edition  (1947),  Vol.  3,  no.  2.  A 
True  Reportory  of  the  Wracke  and  Redemption  of  Sir  Thomas  Gates  printed 
by  Purchas  (London,  1625)  is  reprinted  in  Samuel  Purchas,  Hakluytus 
Posthiimns:  or  Purchas  His  Pilgrimes  (Glasgow,  1905-7),  Vol.  19.  The  Historie 
of  Travaile  into  Virginia  Britannia  was  first  printed  in  an  edition  by  R.  H. 
Major  (London,  1849).  For  Strachey's  probable  influence  on  Shakespeare,  see 
Sanders,  above,  and  Charles  M.  Gayley,  Shakespeare  and  the  Founders  of 
Liberty  in  America  (191 7),  pp.  40-76;  and  Robert  R.  Cawley,  "Shakspere's 
Use  of  the  Voyagers  in  The  Tempest,"  in  PMLA,  Vol.  41  (Sept.  1926),  pp. 
688-726. 

Colonel  Henry  Norwood,  A  Voyage  to  Virginia  appeared  in  A  Collection 
of  Voyages,  ed.  Awnsham  Churchill  (London,  1732),  Vol.  6,  and  is  in  Tracts, 
ed.  Force,  Vol.  3,  no.  10.  For  his  life  see  J.  H.  Trye,  "Colonel  Henry  Norwood 
of  Leckhampton,  Co.  Gloucester,"  in  Trans.  Bristol  and  Gloucestershire  Arch. 
Soc,  Vol.  47  (Kendal,  England,  1926),  pp.  11 3-1 21,  and  Fairfax  Harrison, 
"Henry  Norwood  (1615-89),"  in  Va.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and  Biog.,  Vol.  33  (Jan. 
1925),  pp.  1-10. 

John  Hammond,  Leah  and  Rachel  (London,  1656)  is  reprinted  in  Tracts, 
ed.  Force,  Vol.  3,  no.  14,  and  in  Narratives  of  Early  Maryland,  1633-1684,  ed. 
Clayton  C.  Hall  (1910).  There  is  some  biographical  information  in  the  book 
itself;  see  also  the  meager  account  in  the  National  Cyclopaedia  of  American 
Biography  (1893-1941),  Vol.  10,  p.  45. 

Andrew  White,  A  Relation  of  the  Colony  of  the  Lord  Baron  of  Baltimore 
is  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force,  Vol.  4,  no.  12,  and  Narratives  of  Early  Maryland.  There 
are  biographical  accounts  in  DAB,  DNB,  and  The  Catholic  Encyclopedia. 

There  are  various  reprints  of  George  Alsop,  A  Character  of  the  Province 
of  Maryland .. .  (London,  1666),  and  it  is  in  Narratives  of  Early  Maryland. 
There  is  a  biographical  sketch  in  DAB. 

For  early  New  York  literature,  see  Narratives  of  New  Net  her  land,  1609- 
1664,  ed.  John  F.  Jameson  (1909)  and  Ellis  L.  Raesly,  Portrait  of  New  Nether- 
land  (1945). 

Adriaen  Van  Der  Donck,  Beschryvinge  van  N ieuw-N ederlant  (Amsterdam, 
1655),  is  translated  by  Jeremiah  Johnson  in  N.  Y.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  2nd  series, 
Vol.  1  (1841),  pp.  129-242.  There  is  a  brief  biography  in  DAB. 

There  are  several  reprints  of  Daniel  Denton,  A  Brief  Description  of  New- 
York  (London,  1670),  and  a  facsimile  edition,  ed.  Victor  H.  Paltsits  (1937), 
which  contains  a  useful  bibliographical  and  biographical  note. 

Some  of  the  work  of  travellers  and  observers  in  other  colonies  is  included  in 
Narratives  of  Early  Pennsylvania,  West  New  Jersey,  and  Delaware,  16 30- 1707, 
ed.  Albert  C.  Myers  (191 2)  and  Narratives  of  Early  Carolina,  1650-1708,  ed. 
Alexander  S.  Salley,  Jr.  ( 191 1 ). 

Charleston  as  a  cultural  center  is  treated  in  Frederick  P.  Bowes,  The  Culture 
of  Early  Charleston  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1942).  Narratives  of  Early  Carolina 
contains  Samuel  Wilson,  An  Account  of  the  Province  of  Carolina  (London, 
1682),  also  reprinted  in  Historical  Collections  of  South  Carolina,  ed.  Bartholo- 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  995 

mew  R.  Carroll  (1836),  Vol.  2,  pp.  19-35,  anc^  Thomas  Ash,  Carolina:  or  a 
Description  of  the  Present  State  of  that  Country  (London,  1682),  reprinted  in 
Carroll's  Collections,  Vol.  2,  pp.  59-84,  and  by  William  Abbatt,  The  Magazine 
of  History  with  Notes  and  Queries,  extra  number  59  (191 7).  A  New  Collec- 
tion of  Voyages  and  Travels,  ed.  John  Stevens  (London,  1708;  2nd  edition, 
London,  171 1),  Vol.  1,  contained  John  Lawson,  A  New  Voyage  to  Carolina, 
which  was  also  printed  separately  (London,  1709)  and,  under  the  title  The 
History  of  Carolina,  republished  several  times  (London,  1714;  1718;  Raleigh, 
N.  C,  i860;  German  translation,  Hamburg,  171 2).  The  most  recent  edition  is 
that  of  Frances  L.  Harriss  (Richmond,  1937).  There  is  a  brief  biography  in 
DAB,  and  material  on  Lawson  in  James  C.  Pilling,  Bibliography  of  the  Iro- 
quoian  Languages  in  U.S.  Bureau  of  Ethnology  Bulletin,  no.  6  (Washington, 
1888)  and  Stephen  B.  Weeks,  "Libraries  and  Literature  in  North  Carolina  in 
the  Eighteenth  Century"  in  Amer.  Hist.  Assoc.  Annual  Report,  1895  (Wash- 
ington, 1896),  pp.  171-267. 

For  William  Penn  see  Mary  K.  Spence,  William  Venn:  A  Bibliography 
(Harrisburg,  1932)  and  the  brief  bibliography  in  LHUS.  There  is  no  complete 
edition  of  Penn's  works,  but  A  Collection  of  the  Works  of  William  Penn,  ed. 
Joseph  Besse  (London,  1726)  is  the  fullest.  Everyman's  Library  has  a  convenient 
reprint,  An  Essay  towards  the  Present  and  Future  Peace  of  Europe, . . .  Some 
Fruits  of  Solitude, ...  and  Other  Writings  (London,  n.d.).  For  letters  see 
Henry  J.  Cadbury,  "Intercepted  Correspondence  of  William  Penn,  1670,"  in 
Pa.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and  Biog.,  Vol.  70  (Oct.  1946),  pp.  349-372;  Hist.  Soc.  Pa. 
Me?noirs,  Vols.  1,  2,  3,  4  (Philadelphia,  1826,  1827,  1834,  1840);  and  the  two 
Vols,  of  Correspondence  between  William  Penn  and  James  Logan,  ed.  Deborah 
Logan  and  Edward  Armstrong  in  the  same  series,  Vols.  9  and  10  (Philadelphia, 
1870-72).  Among  the  many  biographies  the  best  is  probably  William  I.  Hull, 
William  Penn:  A  Topical  Biography  (1937).  Useful  special  studies  are  Edward 
C.  O.  Beatty,  William  Penn  as  Social  Philosopher  (1939)  and  John  H.  Powell, 
"William  Penn's  Writings:  An  Anniversary  Essay,"  Pa.  History,  Vol.  11 
(Oct.  1944),  pp.  233-259.  The  October,  1944,  issue  of  Pa.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and 
Biog.  has  a  group  of  studies  of  Penn  by  various  scholars. 

Gabriel  Thomas,  An  Historical  and  Geographical  Account  of . . .  PensiU 
vania  (London,  1698),  was  issued  in  a  lithographed  edition  by  Henry  A.  Brady 
(1848)  and  was  incompletely  reprinted  (Harrisburg,  1935).  Bibliographical 
data  on  Francis  Pastorius  is  in  Chap.  3  of  Samuel  W.  Pennypacker,  The 
Settlement  of  Germantown  (Philadelphia,  1899);  Oswald  Seidensticker,  The 
First  Century  of  German  Printing  in  America,  1728-1830  (Philadelphia,  1893), 
pp.  1-5;  and  Marion  D.  Learned,  The  Life  of  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  (Phila- 
delphia, 1908),  the  best  biography. 

There  is  a  good  brief  bibliography  of  William  Byrd  in  LHUS.  The  best 
edition  of  his  principal  works  is  The  Writings  of  uColonel  William  Byrd,  of 
Westover  in  Virginia,  Esqr"  ed.  John  S.  Bassett  (1901),  but  the  definitive 
edition  of  The  History  of  the  Dividing  Line  is  William  K.  Boyd,  William 
Byrd's  Histories  of  the  Dividing  Line  (Raleigh,  N.  C,  1929),  which  contains  a 
hitherto  unpublished  MS  version.  The  History  of  the  Dividing  Line,  A  Journey 
to  the  Land  of  Eden,  and  A  Progress  to  the  Mines,  were  issued  as  A  Journey 
to  the  Land  of  Eden  and  Other  Papers,  ed.  Mark  Van  Doren  (1928).  William 


996  THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

Byrd's  Natural  History  of  Virginia,  ed.  Richmond  C.  Beatty  and  William  J. 
Mulloy  (Richmond,  1940)  is  a  translation  of  Neu-Gefundenes  Eden  (Bern, 
1737).  Byrd's  diaries  have  been  issued  as  The  Secret  Diary  of  William  Byrd  of 
Westover,  1709-1712,  ed.  Louis  B.  Wright  and  Marion  Tinling  (Richmond, 
1941)  and  Another  Secret  Diary  of  William  Byrd  of  Westover,  1739-1741, 
■with  Letters  &  Literary  Exercises,  1696-1726,  ed.  Maude  H.  WoodfTn  (Rich- 
mond, 1942).  Many  of  Byrd's  letters  are  in  Amer.  Hist.  Rev.,  Vol.  1  (1895), 
and  Va.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and  Biog.,  Vols.  9,  35-39.  (1901-2,  1927,  1928,  1929,  1930, 
193 1 ).  The  best  biography  is  Richmond  C.  Beatty,  William  Byrd  of  Westover 
(Boston,  1932),  which  contains  a  list  of  secondary  books  with  information 
on  Byrd. 

CHAPTER    3 

PURITAN  PREACHERS  AND  PROSE  WRITERS 

The  best  guide  to  the  voluminous  material  on  the  writers  of  colonial  New 
England  is  the  bibliography  in  Miller  and  Johnson,  The  Puritans  (p.  992  above). 
This  contains  copious  selections  from  various  types  of  Puritan  literature,  an 
excellent  general  introduction  on  the  Puritan  way  of  life  and  on  "The  Puritans 
as  Literary  Artists,"  and  briefer  commentaries  on  special  aspects  of  Puritan 
culture.  See  also  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  251-254,  and  the  bibliographies  of  periodical 
articles  on  New  England,  printed  each  year  in  the  New  England  Quart.,  as  well 
as  the  notices  and  reviews  of  new  books  in  the  same  periodical. 

Perry  Miller,  Orthodoxy  in  Massachusetts  and  The  New  England  Mind 
(p.  992  above)  are  indispensable  analyses  of  Puritan  thought.  The  latter  is  the 
most  complete  study  of  its  subject. 

Travellers  and  observers  who  wrote  of  New  England  are  listed  in  CHAL, 
bibliography  for  Book  1,  Chap.  1,  and  Vail's  Voice  of  the  Old  Frontier  (p.  993 
above).  There  are  excerpts  from  them  and  comments  in  The  Puritans,  Chap.  4. 
There  is  a  brief  sketch  of  William  Wood  in  DAB.  The  most  recent  reprints  of 
his  New  Englands  Prospect  (London,  1634,  1635,  and  1639),  are  those  of 
Charles  Deane  (Boston,  1865)  and  Eben  M.  Boynton  (Boston,  1898),  For 
Thomas  Morton  see  DAB,  and  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  58  (Boston,  1925), 
p.  147,  and  Vol.  59  (Boston,  1926),  p.  92.  The  best  modern  edition  of  The  New 
English  Canaan  is  that  of  Charles  F.  Adams,  Jr.  (Boston,  1883).  There  is  a 
sketch  of  Francis  Higginson  in  DAB,  and  a  biography  by  Thomas  W.  Higgin- 
son,  Life  of  Francis  Higginson  (1891).  New  Englands  Plantation  (London, 
1630)  is  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force  (p.  994  above),  Vol.  1,  no.  12,  and  was  reprinted 
"with  other  writings"  by  Higginson  (Salem,  1908).  It  is  also  in  Chronicles  of 
the  First  Planters  of ...  Massachusetts  Bay,  from  1623  to  1636,  ed.  Alexander 
Young   (Boston,   1846),  and  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  62    (Boston,   1930). 

Section  8  of  the  bibliography  in  The  Puritans  deals  with  Puritan  education. 
Especially  important  are  Samuel  E.  Morison,  The  Founding  of  Harvard 
College  (Cambridge,  1935)  and  Harvard  College  in  the  Seventeenth  Century 
(Cambridge,  1936).  On  the  ownership  and  circulation  of  books  see  section  10  of 
the  bibliography  in  The  Puritans,  and  Worthington  C.  Ford,  The  Boston  Book 
Market,  1679-1700  (Boston,  191 7),  Thomas  G.  Wright,  Literary  Culture  in 
Early  New  England,  1620-1730  (New  Haven,  1920),  and  Samuel  E.  Morison, 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  997 

The  Puritan  Pronaos  (1936).  Puritan  literary  theory  and  its  relation  to  the 
Anglican  and  Catholic  background  and  to  Puritan  theology  is  treated  in 
Kenneth  B.  Murdock,  Literature  and  Theology  in  Colonial  New  England 
(Cambridge,  1949).  On  Ramus's  influence  Miller's  New  England  Mind  is  the 
best  authority. 

Bibliographical  material  on  Nathaniel  Ward  is  in  DAB;  LHUS;  John  W. 
Dean,  A  Memoir  of  the  Rev.  Nathaniel  Ward . . .  (Albany,  1868);  the  facsimile 
edition  of  The  Simple  Cobler,  ed.  Lawrence  C.  Wroth  (1937);  and  Shirley  W. 
Harvey,  "Nathaniel  Ward:  His  Life  and  Works,  Together  with  an  Edited 
Text  of  his  Simple  Cobler,"  an  unpublished  thesis  (1936)  in  the  Harvard  Col- 
lege Library.  For  biography  see  DAB,  Dean,  Harvey,  and  Samuel  E.  Morison's 
excellent  Chap.  7  in  his  Builders  (p.  993  above).  Wroth 's  edition  of  the  Cobler 
is  the  best.  The  Body  of  Liberties  drawn  up  by  Ward  is  conveniently  available 
in  the  Old  South  Leaflets  series  (Boston,  various  dates),  no.  164.  For  comment 
on  it  by  Francis  C.  Gray  see  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  series  3,  Vol.  8  (Boston, 
1843),  pp.  191-215. 

There  is  a  bibliography  of  Roger  Williams  in  LHUS.  See  also  Howard  M. 
Chapin,  List  of  Roger  Willia?ns"  Writings  (Providence,  1918).  His  works  have 
been  printed  by  the  Narragansett  Club,  The  Writings  of  Roger  Williams,  6 
Vols.  (Providence,  1866-74).  Vol.  6  contains  his  letters.  A  Key  into  the 
Language  of  America  (London,  1643)  was  reprinted  by  Howard  M.  Chapin 
(Providence,  1936).  The  numerous  biographies  of  Williams  are  usually  warmly 
partisan;  the  best  is  probably  Samuel  H.  Brockunier,  The  Irrepressible 
Democrat:  Roger  Williams  (1940). 

The  Puritans  and  Miller,  The  New  England  Mind,  especially  Chaps.  1 1  and 
12,  are  rich  in  material  on  Puritan  sermons,  and  CHAL,  bibliography  for 
Book  1,  Chap.  3,  is  a  good  bibliographical  starting  point.  W.  Fraser  Mitchell, 
English  Pulpit  Oratory  from  Andrews  to  Tillotson  (London,  1932),  and 
William  Haller,  The  Rise  of  Puritanism  (1947),  contain  valuable  material. 
Babette  M.  Levy,  Preaching  in  the  First  Half  Century  of  New  England  History 
(Hartford,  1945),  is  a  good  special  study. 

George  L.  Walker,  Thomas  Hooker:  Preacher,  Founder,  Democrat  (1891), 
the  only  full  biography  of  Thomas  Hooker,  contains  a  list  of  his  published 
works.  See  also  bibliography  in  LHUS  and  DAB.  There  is  no  collected  edition 
but  there  are  selections  in  The  Puritans.  Perry  Miller,  "Thomas  Hooker  and  the 
Democracy  of  Early  Connecticut,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  4  (Oct.  193 1),  is 
important.  There  is  a  bibliography  of  Thomas  Shepard  in  Col.  Soc.  of  Mass. 
Pubs.,  Vol.  27  (Boston,  1932),  which  contains  also  the  best  edition  of  his 
autobiography.  The  Works  of  Tho?nas  Shepard,  ed.  John  A.  Albro  (Boston, 
1853),  includes  a  biography.  There  is  a  good  biographical  essay  in  Morison, 
Builders,  Chap.  4.  See  also  Alexander  Whyte,  Thomas  Shepard,  Pilgri?n  Father 
and  Founder  of  Harvard:  His  Spiritual  Experience  and  Experimental  Preaching 
(Edinburgh,  1909). 

Some  useful  material  on  the  variety  of  literary  types  in  the  early  literature 
of  New  England  and  the  other  colonies  is  in  Josephine  K.  Piercy,  Studies  in 
Literary   Types  in  Seventeenth-Century   America,    1607-1710    (New   Haven, 

1939)- 
Joseph  Morgan,  The  History  of  the  Kingdom  of  Basaruah  . . .  ( [New  York] , 


998  THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

1 71 5)  ed.  Richard  B.  Schlatter  (Cambridge,  1946)  has  a  bibliography  and  a 
good  biographical  and  critical  introduction. 

On  books  of  "remarkable  providences"  see  Thomas  J.  Holmes,  Increase 
Mather:  A  Bibliography  of  his  Works,  Vol.  1  (Cleveland,  193 1),  pp.  241-248, 
and  Kenneth  B.  Murdock,  Increase  Mather  (Cambridge,  1925),  pp.  166-177. 
Holmes  offers  an  amazingly  detailed  bibliography  of  Increase  Mather  with 
valuable  summary  of,  and  comment  on,  each  of  his  writings.  See  also  bibliog- 
raphy in  LHUS.  Murdock,  above,  is  the  only  full  biography.  Bibliography  for 
the  other  Mathers  is  supplied  by  Thomas  J.  Holmes,  Cotton  Mather:  A  Bibliog- 
raphy of  His  Works  and  The  Minor  Mathers:  A  List  of  Their  Works  (both 
Cambridge,  1940),  which  follow  the  same  plan  as  Holmes,  Increase  Mather. 

Several  works  of  Cotton  Mather  have  been  reprinted.  See  Holmes's  bibliog- 
raphy and  LHUS.  His  diary,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford,  is  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc. 
Coll.,  series  7,  Vols.  7  and  8  (Boston,  191 1,  1912).  Selections  from  Cotton 
Mather,  ed.  Kenneth  B.  Murdock  (1926),  has  a  critical  introduction  and  bib- 
liography. The  Manuductio  ad  Ministerhim  (Boston,  1726)  was  reissued  in 
facsimile  with  a  bibliographical  note  by  Thomas  J.  Holmes  and  Kenneth  B. 
Murdock  (1938).  Barrett  Wendell,  Cotton  Mather:  The  Puritan  Priest  (1891; 
reprinted  Cambridge,  1926),  is  still  the  standard  life.  See  also  Ralph  P.  and 
Louise  Boas,  Cotton  Mather:  Keeper  of  the  Puritan  Conscience  (1928)  and 
DAB.  For  comment  on  Mather  as  a  man  of  letters  see  also  the  introduction  in 
Selections,  ed.  Murdock,  and  Kenneth  B.  Murdock,  "Cotton  Mather:  Parson, 
Scholar  and  Man  of  Affairs"  in  the  Commonwealth  History  of  Mass.  (1928), 
Vol.  2.  The  Political  Fables  are  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  series  3,  Vol.  1  (Boston, 
1825),  and  in  Selections,  ed.  Murdock.  The  best  discussion  of  the  "spiritualizing" 
essays  is  in  the  introduction  to  Jonathan  Edwards,  Images  or  Shadows  of  Divine 
Things,  ed.  Perry  Miller  (New  Haven,  1948).  See  also  pp.  1003,  1008  below. 


CHAPTER    4 

POETS  AND  POETASTERS 

For  general  bibliography  see  Oscar  Wegelin,  Early  American  Poetry  . . .  (rev. 
edition,  1930);  CHAL,  bibliography  for  Book  1,  Chap.  9;  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp. 
80-82.  For  New  England,  Harold  S.  Jantz,  The  First  Century  of  New  England 
Verse  (Worcester,  1944),  is  indispensable.  For  comment  on  Puritan  attitudes 
toward  poetry,  see  Intro,  in  Handkerchiefs  from  Paul,  ed.  Kenneth  B.  Murdock 
(Cambridge,  1927)  and  Chap.  5  in  his  Literature  and  Theology  (p.  997  above) 
and  the  Intro,  to  Chap.  6  of  The  Puritans  (p.  992  above). 

Richard  Rich,  Newes  from  Virginia  (London,  1610),  was  edited  by  James 
O.  Halliwell  [-Phillips]  (London,  1865).  A  reprint  of  the  tract  containing  the 
poem  on  Bacon's  death  is  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force,  Vol.  1,  no.  n  (p.  994  above). 
See  also  Jones,  The  Literature  (p.  993  above),  pp.  40-46  and  its  bibliographical 
references.  Poems  on  Several  Occasions  (Williamsburg,  1736)  was  published 
anonymously.  There  is  a  reprint,  ed.  Ralph  L.  Rusk  (1930).  Ebenezer  Cook 
The  Sot-Weed  Factor ...  (London,  1708),  was  reprinted  in  Md.  Hist.  Soc. 
Fund.  Pubs.,  no.  36  (Baltimore,  1900),  with  Sotweed  Redivivus  (Annapolis, 
1730).  The  Maryland  Muse  (Annapolis,   1 73 1 )  is  reproduced  in  facsimile  in 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  999 

Lawrence  C.  Wroth,  "The  Maryland  Muse  by  Ebenezer  Cooke"  in  Amer. 
Antiq.  Soc.  Proc,  new  series,  Vol.  44  (Worcester,  1934),  pp.  267-335.  For 
comment  on  Cook  and  the  poems  ascribed  to  him,  see  the  same  and  James  T. 
Pole,  "Ebenezer  Cook  and  The  Maryland  Muse"  in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  3  (Nov., 
193 1 ),  pp.  296-302.  For  Thomas  Godfrey,  see  bibliographical  notes,  pp.  000 
below.  There  is  a  bibliography  of  William  Livingston  in  LHUS  and  bio- 
graphical sketches  in  DAB  and  Franklin  B.  Dexter,  Biographical  Sketches  of 
the  Graduates  of  Yale  College  (1885- 191 2),  Vol.  1.  See  also  Dorothy  R.  Dillon, 
The  New  York  Triumvirate:  A  Study  of  the  Legal  and  Political  Careers  of 
William  Livingston,  John  Morin  Scott,  Williajn  Smith,  Jr.  (1949),  and  Harold 
W.  Thatcher,  uThe  Social  Philosophy  of  William  Livingston,"  Univ.  of 
Chicago  thesis,  1938. 

Edward  Taylor  is  the  subject  of  a  bibliography  in  LHUS,  and  there  is 
bibliographical  material  also  in  The  Poetical  Works  of  Edward  Taylor,  ed. 
Thomas  H.  Johnson  (1939),  which  contains  an  excellent  selection  of  his  work. 
For  other  writings  of  his,  see  Thomas  H.  Johnson,  "Some  Edward  Taylor 
Gleanings,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  16  (June,  1943),  pp.  280-296,  and  "The 
Topical  Verses  of  Edward  Taylor,"  Col.  Soc.  of  Mass.  Pub.,  Vol.  34  (Boston, 
1943),  pp.  513-554.  There  are  biographical  sketches  in  DAB,  Supplement  1;  The 
Poetical  Works;  and  Thomas  H.  Johnson,  "Edward  Taylor:  A  Puritan  'Sacred 
Poet,'  "  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  10  (June,  1937),  pp.  290-322.  Useful  critical 
articles  are  Austin  Warren,  "Edward  Taylor's  Poetry:  Colonial  Baroque,"  in 
Rage  for  Order  (Chicago,  1947);  Wallace  C.  Brown,  "Edward  Taylor:  An 
American  'Metaphysical,'"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  16  (Nov.,  1944),  pp.  186-197; 
Nathalia  Wright,  "The  Morality  Tradition  in  the  Poetry  of  Edward  Taylor," 
and  Willie  T.  Weathers,  "Edward  Taylor:  Hellenistic  Puritan,"  in  Amer.  Lit., 
Vol.  18  (March,  1946),  pp.  1-17  and  18-26. 

There  is  a  good  bibliography  for  Mather  Byles  in  John  L.  Sibley,  Bio- 
graphical Sketches  of  Graduates  of  Harvard  University,  continued  as 
Biographical  Sketches  of  Those  who  Attended  Harvard  College. . . ,  ed. 
Clifford  K.  Shipton,  Vol.  7  (Boston,  1945),  pp.  490-493.  Mr.  Shipton's  bio- 
graphical sketch,  pp.  464-490,  is  excellent.  See  also  DAB,  and  Arthur  W.  H. 
Eaton,  The  Famous  Mather  Byles  (Boston,  19 14).  His  Poems  on  Several 
Occasions  (Boston,  1744)  was  edited  by  Carl  L.  Carlson  (1940).  For  Joseph 
Green  see  DAB. 

Urian  Oakes  is  the  subject  of  a  biography  and  bibliography  in  Sibley,  Vol. 
1,  pp.  173-185.  His  elegy  has  often  been  reprinted  and  is  accessible  in  The 
Puritans,  which  also  contains  bibliographical  data  on  Oakes  and  a  biographical 
sketch.  See  also  Jantz  and  DAB.  Bibliographical  material  on  Benjamin  Tomp- 
son  is  in  Sibley,  Vol.  2,  pp.  109-111,  Jantz,  The  Puritans,  and  DAB.  His  poems 
are  collected  in  Benja?nin  Tompson  . . .  His  Poems,  ed.  Howard  J.  Hall  (Boston, 
1924),  and  there  are  additional  verses  in  Jantz  and  in  Handkerchiefs  from  Paul, 
ed.  Murdock.  Biographical  data  are  in  the  same,  Intro.;  Sibley,  Vol.  2,  pp.  103- 
109;  Hall;  and  DAB.  The  "Bay  Psalm  Book'-T^e  Whole  Booke  of  Psalmes 
Faithfully  Translated  into  English  Metre  (Cambridge,  1640)— was  reproduced 
in  facsimile  by  Wilberforce  Eames  (1903)  and  is  discussed  in  George  P.  Win- 
ship,  The  Cambridge  Press,  1638-1692  (Philadelphia,  1945)  and  The  Puritans. 

There  are  bibliographies  of  Michael  Wiggles  worth  in  LHUS  and  DAB. 


iooo         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

See  also  Samuel  A.  Green  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Proc,  series  2,  Vol.  9  (Boston, 
1895),  PP-  -69-275,  and  Matt  B.  Jones,  "Notes  for  a  Bibliography  of  Michael 
Wigglesworth's  Day  of  Doom  and  Meat  out  of  the  Eater"  A?ner.  Antiq.  Soc. 
Proc. ,  new  series,  Vol.  39  (Worcester,  1930),  pp.  77-84,  and  "Michael  Wiggles- 
worth's  Meat  out  of  the  Eater"  Yale  Univ.  Lib.  Gazette,  Vol.  5  (Jan.  193 1), 
pp.  45-47.  Selections  from  "The  Pravse  of  Eloquence"  are  in  Morison,  Harvard 
College  in  the  Seventeenth  Century  (Cambridge,  1936),  Vol.  1,  pp.  180-183, 
and  in  The  Puritans,  pp.  674-678.  A  good  selection  of  Wigglesworth's  verse  is 
in  the  same,  pp.  585-630.  The  Day  of  Doom  (Cambridge,  1662)  has  had  many 
editions;  the  most  recent,  with  a  critical  introduction,  is  by  Kenneth  B.  Mur- 
dock  (1929).  John  W.  Dean,  Memoir  of  Rev.  Michael  Wigglesworth  (2nd 
edition,  Albany,  1871),  is  the  best  life.  See  also  Sibley,  Vol.  1,  pp.  259-286,  and 
DAB.  There  is  a  perceptive  critical  article  by  Francis  O.  Matthiessen,  "Michael 
Wigglesworth:  A  Puritan  Artist,"  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  1  (Oct.  1928), 
pp.  491-504. 

For  bibliography  of  Anne  Bradstreet  see  LHUS;  DAB;  Oscar  Wegelin, 
"A  List  of  Editions  of  the  Poems  of  Anne  Bradstreet,  with  Several  Additional 
Books  Relating  to  Her,"  in  Amer.  Book  Collector,  Vol.  4  (July,  1933),  pp. 
15-16;  and  J.  Kester  Svendsen,  "Anne  Bradstreet  in  England:  A  Bibliographical 
Note"  in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  13  (March,  1941),  pp.  63-65.  The  two  modern 
collected  editions  are  The  Works  of  Anne  Bradstreet  in  Prose  and  Verse,  ed. 
John  H.  Ellis  (Charlestown,  Mass.,  1867;  reprint  edition,  New  York,  1932), 
which  contains  good  biographical  material,  and  The  Poems  of  Mrs.  Anne  Brad- 
street... ,  Together  with  Her  Prose  Remains,  ed.  Charles  E.  Norton  (1897). 
Selections  from  her  work  are  in  many  anthologies.  Helen  S.  Campbell,  Anne 
Bradstreet  and  Her  Time  (Boston,  1891)  is  the  one  full  biography,  but  the 
sketches  in  DAB  and  in  Morison,  Builders  (p.  993  above)  are  more  rewarding. 
See  also  Metta  Bradstreet,  "Anne  Bradstreet:  Her  Life  and  Works,"  Topsfield 
Hist.  Soc.  Hist.  Coll.,  Vol.  1  (Topsfield,  Mass.,  1895),  pp.  3-7,  and  Alas,  All's 
Vanity;  or,  A  Leaf  front  the  First  American  Edition  of  Several  Poems . . . , 
ed.  George  F.  Whicher  (1942). 


CHAPTER    5 

COLONIAL  HISTORIANS 

The  bibliographies  for  Book  1,  Chaps.  1  and  2,  of  CHAL  are  useful.  For 
William  Strachey  and  John  Smith,  see  pp.  993-994  above.  The  story  of 
Bacon's  rebellion,  quoted  in  the  text,  is  in  Tracts,  ed.  Force  (p.  994  above),  Vol. 
1,  no.  11.  See  Jones,  Literature  (p.  993  above),  pp.  39-46,  for  comment  on  the 
literature  dealing  with  the  rebellion,  and,  for  bibliographical  data,  the  bibliog- 
raphy in  CHAL,  Book  1,  Chap.  2. 

For  bibliography  of  Robert  Beverley,  The  History  and  Present  State  of 
Virginia  .. .  (London,  1705;  rev.  edition,  London,  1722),  see  William  Clayton- 
Torrence,  A  Trial  Bibliography  of  Colonial  Virginia  (Richmond,  1908-10), 
and  DAB.  The  best  edition  of  the  history  (1705  text)  is  by  Louis  B.  Wright 
(Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1947),  which  contains  a  list  of  the  principal  changes  made 
in  the  1722  version.  For  biography  and  comment  see  Intro,  in  this;  DAB;  Louis 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  iooi 

B.  Wright,  "Beverley's  History ...  A  Neglected  Classic,"  Wm.  and  Mary 
Quart.,  series  3,  Vol.  1  (Jan.  1944),  pp.  49-64,  which  has  bibliographical  data; 
Wright,  The  First  Gentlemen  (p.  992  above)  and  Fairfax  Harrison,  "Robert 
Beverley,  the  Historian  of  Virginia"  in  Va.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and  Biog.,  Vol.  36 
(Oct.  1928),  pp.  333-344- 

Alexander  Hew  at,  An  Historical  Account  of  the  Rise  and  Progress  of  the 
Colonies  of  South  Carolina  and  Georgia  (London,  1779),  is  in  Carroll, 
Historical  Collections  (p.  994-995  above),  Vol.  1.  There  is  a  biographical  sketch 
in  DAB.  A  True  and  Historical  Narrative  of  the  Colony  of  Georgia . . . 
(Charleston,  S.  C,  1741 ),  by  Patrick  Tailfer  et  al.,  was  reprinted  in  Tracts,  ed. 
Force,  Vol.  1,  no.  4,  and  in  Ga.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  Vol.  2  (Savannah,  Ga.,  1842). 
Samuel  Smith,  The  History  of  the  Colony  of  Nova-Caesaria  . . .  (Burlington, 
N.  J.,  1765),  has  been  reprinted,  ed.  W.  S.  Sharp  (Trenton,  1877).  Part  of 
his  history  of  the  Quakers  in  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania  was  published  as 
The  History  of  the  Province  of  Pennsylvania,  ed.  William  M.  Mervine  (Phila- 
delphia, 191 3).  Bibliography  and  biography  of  William  Smith  is  in  DAB, 
and  see  also  Maturin  L.  Delafield,  "William  Smith,  The  Historian,"  Mag.  Amer. 
Hist.,  Vol.  6  (June,  1881),  pp.  418-439.  Smith's  History,  incompletely  published 
(London,  1757),  was  issued  in  full  by  the  N.  Y.  Hist.  Soc.  (1829,  1830).  This 
edition  contains  a  memoir  of  Smith  by  his  son.  For  Colden's  criticism  of  the 
history,  see  N.  Y.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  series  2,  Vol.  2,  Part  1  (1848).  A  fairer 
judgment  is  that  of  Benjamin  F.  Butler,  Anniversary  Discourse:  Delivered 
before  the  Albany  Institute,  April  23,  1830  (Albany,  1830),  pp.  10-12. 

The  somewhat  complex  bibliographical  record  of  Cadwallader  Colden, 
The  History  of  the  Five  Indian  Nations . . . ,  is  traced  in  Lawrence  C.  Wroth, 
An  American  Bookshelf,  17$$  (Philadelphia,  1934),  Appendix  10.  The  Intro, 
in  John  G.  Shea's  edition  of  the  history  (1866)  is  also  an  excellent  bib- 
liographical account.  For  general  bibliography  of  Colden,  see  DAB,  and  Alice 
M.  Keys,  Cadwallader  Colden:  A  Representative  Eighteenth  Century  Official 
(1906),  a  biography  devoted  chiefly  to  Colden's  political  activities.  For  Colden's 
letters,  see  the  9  Vols,  of  The  Letters  and  Papers  of  Cadwallader  Colden . . ., 
171 1-1775,  m  N'  Y.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.  (1917-23,  1934,  1935).  There  is  biographical 
material  in  DAB,  Wroth,  and  Keys.  For  comment  on  Colden's  ideas  see 
I.  Woodbridge  Riley,  American  Philosophy:  The  Early  Schools  (1907),  pp. 
329-372,  and  Herbert  W.  Schneider,  A  History  of  American  Philosophy 
(1946),  pp.  23-26. 

The  Puritan  theory  and  practise  of  historiography  is  discussed  in  Murdock, 
Literature  and  Theology  (p.  997  above),  Chap.  3,  and  in  The  Puritans  (p.  992 
above),  Intro,  to  Chap.  1.  For  the  providential  doctrine,  see  p.  998  above. 

There  are  bibliographies  of  William  Bradford  in  LHUS  and  DAB.  The 
Puritans  has  good  selections  from  his  history,  as  do  many  other  anthologies. 
It  was  first  printed,  ed.  Charles  Deane,  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  4th  series, 
Vol.  3  (Boston,  1856).  The  best  edition,  which  has  much  valuable  bib- 
liographical and  biographical  material,  is  William  Bradford,  History  of 
Plymouth  Plantation,  1620-1647,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford  (Boston,  191 2). 
Some  of  Bradford's  letters  are  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  1st  series,  Vol.  3 
(Boston,  1794),  pp.  27-84,  and  same,  4th  series,  Vol.  6  (Boston,  1863),  pp. 
1 56- 161.  There  is  no  adequate  full-length  biography,  but  the  DAB  sketch  is 


iooz         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

good,  as  is  Williston  Walker,  Ten  New  England  Leaders  (iqoi),  pp.  3-45. 
Useful  comment  on  Bradford  as  a  writer  is  in  E.  F.  Bradford,  "Conscious  Art 
in  Bradford's  History  of  Plymouth  Plantation"  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol. 
1  (April,  1928),  pp.  i33-J57- 

A  short  bibliography  of  John  Winthrop  is  in  DAB.  The  first  complete 
edition  of  his  Journal  was  that  of  James  Savage  (Boston,  1825-26).  The  best 
edition  is  the  revision  of  this  by  the  same  editor  (Boston,  1853).  The  Winthrop 
papers,  now  in  course  of  publication  by  the  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  (Boston, 
1929-  ),  is  an  indispensable  collection  of  the  letters  and  other  writings 
of  Winthrop  and  his  family.  For  biography  see  Robert  C.  Winthrop,  Life  and 
Letters  of  John  Winthrop .. .  (Boston,  1864-67);  Samuel  E.  Morison,  Builders 
(see  p.  993  above),  Chap.  3;  Lawrence  S.  Mayo,  The  Winthrop  Family  in 
America  (Boston,  1948);  and  DAB. 

Edward  Johnson  is  the  subject  of  a  sketch  with  bibliographical  references,  in 
DAB.  His  History  (London,  1654)  was  edited  by  William  F.  Poole  under  the 
title  of  The  Wonder  Working  Providence  of  Sions  Saviour  in  New  England 
(Andover,  Mass.,  1867)  and  by  John  F.  Jameson,  with  the  title  Johnson's 
W onder-W orking  Providence,  1628-1651  (1910)  in  the  Original  Narratives  of 
Early  American  History  series. 

Nathaniel  Morton,  New  Englands  Memoriall  (Cambridge,  1669),  was 
reissued  in  facsimile,  ed.  Howard  J.  Hall  (1937).  See  bibliographical  refer- 
ences and  biography  in  DAB. 

For  Increase  Mather,  see  p.  998  above,  and  Holmes's  bibliography  cited 
there. 

For  lists  of  other  histories  of  King  Philip's  War,  see  A  Catalogue  of  Books 
Relating  to  the  Discovery  and  Early  History  of  North  and  South  America, 
Forming  a  Part  of  the  Library  of  E.  D.  Church,  compiled  by  George  W.  Cole 
(1907),  Vol.  3,  1626-76,  pp.  1423,  1430-1431. 

Bibliographies  for  John  Mason  and  Benjamin  Church  are  in  DAB  and 
CHAL,  bibliography  for  Book  1,  Chap.  2.  For  biography  see  Louis  B.  Mason, 
The  Life  and  Times  of  Major  John  Mason  ...  (1935).  See  DAB  and  CHAL  for 
Samuel  Penhallow.  See  also  "The  Wars  of  New  England,"  by  Elizabeth  L. 
Adams,  More  Books  (March,  1940),  pp.  87-101. 

Bibliography  for  William  Hubbard  is  in  DAB  and  Sibley,  Vol.  1,  both  of 
which  have  good  biographical  sketches.  A  Narrative  of  the  Troubles  with  the 
Indians  in  New-England  (Boston  and  London,  1677)  was  reprinted  as  The 
History  of  the  Indian  Wars  in  New  England,  ed.  Samuel  G.  Drake  (Roxbury, 
Mass.,  1865).  The  General  History  (c.  1680;  first  printed  Boston,  181 5)  was 
edited  by  William  T.  Harris  (Boston,  1848).  In  1878  the  Massachusetts  His- 
torical Society  was  given  a  transcript  of  a  MS  of  the  history,  containing  pas- 
sages not  included  in  the  printed  version,  and  issued  supplementary  sheets 
with  these  passages.  Unfortunately  most  extant  copies  do  not  contain  these 
sheets.  For  Hubbard's  attitude  toward  history  see  Kenneth  B.  Murdock, 
"William  Hubbard  and  the  Providential  Interpretation  of  History"  in  Airier. 
Antiq.  Soc.   Proc,  Vol.   52    (Worcester,    1943),   and   separately    (Worcester, 

'943)- 

For  bibliography  of  Mary  Rowlandson,  see  Vail,  The  Voice  of  the  Old 
Frontier  (p.  993  above),  and  the  facsimile  reprint  of  her  narrative,  ed.  Henry 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1003 

S.  Nourse  and  John  E.  Thayer  (Lancaster,  1903).  There  is  a  biographical 
sketch  in  DAB. 

The  best  edition  of  Jonathan  Dickinson,  Gods  Protecting  Providence  . . . 
(Philadelphia,  1699),  is  Jonathan  Dickinson's  Journal .. .,  ed.  Evangeline  W. 
and  Charles  McL.  Andrews  (New  Haven,  1945),  which  contains  a  bibliography 
and  a  biographical  sketch. 

For  other  ''Indian  Captivities"  see  Vail;  Clara  A.  Smith,  Narratives  of 
Captivity  Among  the  Indians . .  .in  the  Edward  E.  Ayer  Collection  of  the 
Newberry  Library  (Chicago,  1912);  the  Supplement  to  this  (Chicago,  1928); 
and  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  273-275.  Some,  including  Rowlandson's,  are  reprinted 
in  Narratives  of  the  Indian  Wars,  1675-1699,  ed.  Charles  H.  Lincoln  (1913). 
Useful  articles  are  Phillips  D.  Carleton,  "The  Indian  Captivity,"  Amer.  Lit., 
Vol.  15  (May,  1943),  pp.  169-180;  Dorothy  A.  Dondore,  "White  Captives 
Among  the  Indians,"  N.  Y.  History,  Vol.  13  (July,  1932),  pp.  292-300;  Roy 
H.  Pearce,  "The  Significances  of  the  Captivity  Narrative,"  Anier.  Lit.,  Vol. 
19  (March,  1947),  pp.  1-20;  and  Jason  A.  Russell,  "The  Narratives  of  the  Indian 
Captivities,"  in  Education,  Vol.  51  (Oct.  1930),  pp.  84-88. 

There  is  a  sketch  of  Daniel  Gookin  in  DAB,  with  bibliographv.  Frederick 
W.  Gookin,  Daniel  Gookin,  16 12-1687  (Chicago,  191 2),  is  the  best  biography. 
Historical  Collections  of  the  Indians  in  New  England  was  printed  in  Mass. 
Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  series  1,  Vol.  1  (Boston,  1792),  and  An  Historical  Account  of 
the  Doings  and  Sufferings  of  the  Christian  Indians ...  in  the  Archaeologia 
Americana  of  the  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc,  Vol.  2  (Cambridge,  1836). 

For  Cotton  Mather,  see  bibliography  above,  p.  998.  For  special  treatments 
of  the  Magnalia  Christi  Americana,  see  Holmes,  Cotton  Mather  (p.  998  above), 
Vol.  2,  pp.  573-588;  595-596;  Kenneth  B.  Murdock,  "Notes  on  the  Magnalia" 
in  same,  Vol.  2,  pp.  589-591;  "A  Letter  Relating  to  the  Publication  of  Cotton 
Mather's  Magnalia"  in  Collected  Studies  by  Chester  Noyes  Greenough,  ed. 
Ruth  H.  Greenough  (Cambridge,  1940);  R.  E.  Watters,  "Biographical 
Technique  in  Cotton  Mather's  Magnalia"  in  Wm.  and  Mary  Quart.,  3rd  series, 
Vol.  2  (April,  1945),  pp.  154-163;  and  Intro,  in  Murdock,  Selections  (p.  998 
above). 

Bibliographical  and  biographical  material  for  Thomas  Prince  is  in  DAB 
and  Sibley,  Vol.  5.  There  is  also  a  biography,  Samuel  G.  Drake,  Some  Memoirs 
of  the  Life  and  Writings  of  the  Rev.  Thomas  Prince  . . .  (Boston,  1851 ).  The 
second  part  of  the  Chronological  History  (Boston,  1736,  1755)  was  reprinted 
in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Coll.,  series  2,  Vol.  7,  and  with  the  first  part  (Boston,  1826 
and  1852).  For  Prince's  activities  as  a  book  collector  see  Carl  L.  Cannon, 
American  Book  Collectors  and  Collecting  from  Colonial  Times  to  the  Present 
(1941). 

For  William  Stith,  see  DAB.  The  History  of  the  First  Discovery  and 
Settle?nent  of  Virginia ...  (Williamsburg,  1747,  reprinted,  1865).  See  also 
Morgan  P.  Robinson,  A  Complete  Index  to  Stith1  s  History  of  Virginia 
(Richmond,  191 2).  There  is  an  excellent  bibliographical  note  on  William 
Douglass,  A  Summary,  Historical  and  Political,  of  the  . . .  British  Settlements 
in  North- America,  tracing  the  complex  history  of  its  publication,  in  Wroth, 
An  American  Bookshelf,  pp.  176-177.  There  is  a  biographical  sketch  in  DAB, 
and  £ood  comment  in  Wroth,  pp.  87-91.  See  also  Max  Savelle,  Seeds  of  Liberty: 


ioo4         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

The  Genesis  of  the  American  Mind  (1948),  passim,  which  praises  Douglass 
unduly,  but  makes  some  interesting  suggestions. 

For  bibliography  on  Thomas  Hutchinson,  see  Charles  Deane,  A  Bib- 
liographical Essay  on  Governor  Hutchinson  s  Historical  Publications  (Boston, 
1857)  and  DAB.  His  History  appeared  in  three  vols.,  issued  at  different  times: 
Vol.  1  (Boston,  1764;  London,  1765);  Vol.  2  (Boston,  1767;  London,  1768); 
Vol.  3,  ed.  John  Hutchinson  (London,  1828).  Vols.  1  and  2  were  reissued 
(Boston,  1795).  The  complete  work  was  excellently  edited,  with  a  "memoir," 
by  Lawrence  S.  Mayo  (Cambridge,  1936).  This  edition  includes  corrections 
made  by  Hutchinson  in  his  copies  of  Vols.  1  and  2,  and  follows  the  MS  version 
from  which  Vol.  3  was  printed.  After  the  Mayo  edition  appeared  there  was 
discovered  a  first  draft  author's  MS  of  Vol.  3,  from  which  many  deletions  were 
made  in  the  version  used  for  printing.  These  deletions  were  printed  in 
"Additions  to  Thomas  Hutchinson's  'History  of  Massachusetts  Bay,' "  ed. 
Catherine  B.  Mayo,  in  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  59  (Worcester,  1950),  pp. 
11-74,  and  separately  (Worcester,  1949).  The  Diary  and  Letters  of  Thomas 
Hutchinson  with  an  Account  of  his  Administration,  ed.  Peter  O.  Hutchinson 
(Boston,  1884-86),  has  useful  material.  For  biography  see  also  DAB  and  James 
K.  Hosmer,  The  Life  of  Thomas  Hutchinson  (Boston,  1896).  See  also  for 
criticism  and  bibliography  Lawrence  S.  Mayo,  "Thomas  Hutchinson  and  his 
'History  of  Massachusetts-Bay,'  "  in  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc.  Proc,  new  series,  Vol. 
41  (Worcester,  1932),  pp.  321-339,  and  "Governor  Hutchinson's  Own  Copies 
of  his  History  of  Massachusetts-Bay"  in  Col.  Soc.  of  Mass.  Pubs.,  Vol.  28 
(Boston,  1935),  pp.  438-446.  There  is  some  good  comment  by  John  S.  Bassett 
in  CHAL,  Book  1,  Chap.  2,  and  his  The  Middle  Group  of  American  Historians 
(1917),  pp.  9-11. 

CHAPTER    6 

ASPECTS  OF  EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY 
COLONIAL  CULTURE 

There  are  useful  bibliographies  for  the  voluminous  literature  on  the  subjects 
dealt  with  in  this  chapter  in  many  of  the  general  studies  and  histories  of  the 
colonies  listed  earlier.  Especially  good  are  the  bibliographies  in  Merle  Curti, 
The  Growth  of  American  Thought  (1943);  Nettels,  The  Roots  (p.  991  above); 
Herbert  I.  Priestley,  The  Coining  of  the  White  Man  (p.  992  above);  James  T. 
Adams,  Provincial  Society,  1690-1763  (1927);  and  Evarts  B.  Greene,  The 
Revolutionary  Generation,  1763-1790  (1943). 

For  the  history  of  the  period  see  especially,  Lawrence  H.  Gipson,  The 
British  Empire  Before  the  American  Revolution  (Vols.  1-3,  Caldwell,  Ida., 
1936;  Vols.  4-7,  New  York,  1939-49).  Herbert  L.  Osgood,  The  American 
Colonics  in  the  Eighteenth  Century  (1924)  is  still  useful.  There  is  much  good 
material  in  i\lax  Savelle,  Seeds  of  Liberty  (p.  1003  above). 

For  population  estimates,  see  Evarts  B.  Greene  and  Virginia  D.  Harrington, 
American  Population  Before  the  Federal  Census  of  1790  (1932)  and  Stella  H. 
Sutherland,  Population  Distribution  in  Colonial  America  (1936). 

Diaries  of  the  period  contain  much  information  on  social  conditions.  See, 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1005 

for  bibliography,  Harriette  M.  Forbes,  New  England  Diaries,  1602-1800 
(Topsfield,  Mass.,  1923)  and  William  Matthews,  American  Diaries:  An 
Annotated  Bibliography  of  American  Diaries  Written  Prior  to  the  Year  1861 
(Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles,  1945).  For  the  early  part  of  the  century  in  New 
England  Samuel  Sewall's  diary  is  especially  important.  For  bibliography  for 
Sewall,  see  pp.  1008- 1009  below.  Byrd's  diaries  (p.  996  above)  are  similarly 
valuable  for  Virginia,  although  of  less  literary  interest. 

For  life  in  the  cities  see  Carl  Bridenbaugh,  Cities  in  the  Wilderness:  The 
First  Century  of  Urban  Life  in  America,  1625-1742  (1938),  and  Thomas  J. 
Wertenbaker,  The  Golden  Age  of  Colonial  Culture  (1942).  Important  special 
studies  of  Philadelphia  are  Carl  and  Jessica  Bridenbaugh,  Rebels  and  Gentle- 
men: Philadelphia  in  the  Age  of  Franklin  (1942)  and  Frederick  B.  Tolles, 
Meeting  House  and  Counting  House:  The  Quaker  Merchants  of  Colonial 
Philadelphia,  1682-1763  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1948).  See  also  Michael  Kraus, 
Intercolonial  Aspects  of  American  Culture  on  the  Eve  of  the  Revolution: 
With  Special  Reference  to  the  Northern  Towns  (1928),  which  contains 
excellent  material  on  various  aspects  of  the  artistic  and  intellectual  life  of  the 
colonies. 

On  the  arts,  see  Oliver  W.  Larkin,  Art  and  Life  in  America  (1949),  Book  1, 
"The  Colonial  Arts,  c.  1600-c.  1790,"  and  bibliographies,  pp.  484-489.  Useful  for 
colonial  architecture  are  Joseph  Jackson,  American  Colonial  Architecture 
(Philadelphia,  1924),  and  [Sidney]  Fiske  Kimball,  Do?uestic  Architecture  of 
the  American  Colonies  and  of  the  Early  Republic  (1922).  On  house  furnishings 
and  handicrafts,  see  Luke  V.  Lockwood,  Colonial  Furniture  in  America  (1901); 
Scott  G.  Williamson,  The  American  Craftsman  (1940);  Richard  T.  H.  Halsey 
and  Elizabeth  Tower,  The  Homes  of  Our  Ancestors  (Garden  City,  N.  Y., 
1934),  and  George  F.  Dow,  The  Arts  &  Crafts  in  New  England,  1704-1775 
(Topsfield,  Mass.,  1927).  On  painting,  see  James  T.  Flexner,  First  Flowers  of 
Our  Wilderness  (Boston,  1947),  and  Alan  Burroughs,  Limners  and  Likenesses 
(Cambridge,  1936).  More  specialized  studies  are  listed  in  Larkin.  On  music  see 
for  bibliography  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  32,  102;  John  T.  Howard,  Our  American 
Music:  Three  Hundreds  Years  of  It  (3rd  edition,  rev.  1946),  pp.  693-743; 
footnotes  and  bibliographical  note  to  Cyclone  Covey,  "Of  Music,  and  of 
America  Singing,"  in  Savelle,  Seeds  of  Liberty,  Chap.  9;  and  Oscar  G.  T. 
Sonneck,  A  Bibliography  of  Early  Secular  American  Music,  ed.  William  T. 
Upton  (Washington,  1945).  The  works  by  Howard  and  Covey  contain  help- 
ful comment.  Especially  valuable  is  Oscar  G.  T.  Sonneck,  Early  Concert-Life 
in  America,  1731-1800  (Leipzig,  1907;  reprinted  N.  Y.,  1949). 

For  religion  in  the  period  see  books  already  listed,  pp.  992-993  above,  and 
especially  Sweet,  Religion  in  Colonial  America  (p.  993  above),  a  good  brief 
survey. 

Colonial  science  is  treated  in  Theodore  Hornberger,  Scientific  Thought  in 
the  American  Colleges,  1638-1800  (Austin,  1945);  Frederick  E.  Brasch,  "The 
Newtonian  Epoch  in  the  American  Colonies  (1680-1783)"  in  A?ner.  Antiq. 
Soc.  Proc,  new  series,  Vol.  49  (Worcester,  1940),  pp.  314-332;  and  the  collec- 
tion of  essays,  The  Early  History  of  Science  and  Learning  in  America,  Vol.  86, 
no.  1,  of  the  Amer.  Philos.  Soc.  Proc.  (Philadelphia,  1942).  Dirk  J.  Struik, 
Yankee  Science  in  the  Making  (Boston,   1948),  Chap.   1,  deals  with  colonial 


ioo6         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

science  in  New  England,  and  has  an  extensive  bibliography  and  copious  notes, 
pp.  359-361,  387-416.  See  also  Chap.  2  of  Savelle,  Seeds,  and  Michael  Kraus, 
The  Atlantic  Civilization:  Eighteenth-Century  Origins  (Ithaca,  1949),  Chap.  7, 
on  ''Scientific  Relations  between  Europe  and  America."  This  book  is  a  valuable 
studv  of  American  intellectual  relations  with  Europe  in  the  eighteenth  centurv, 
emphasizing  the  ways  in  which  the  New  World  influenced  the  Old. 

Relevant  chapters  in  Parts  1  and  2  of  Curti,  The  Growth,  give  an  excellent 
summary  of  the  "enlightenment"  in  the  colonies. 

A  helpful  short  bibliography  on  education  is  in  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  1 80-1 81, 
and,  especially  for  the  colonial  period,  pp.  76-79.  Of  special  value  are  Ellwood 
P.  Cubberley,  Public  Education  in  the  United  States:  A  Study  and  Interpreta- 
tion of  American  Education  History  (rev.  edition,  Boston,  1934),  which  has 
bibliographies;  Charles  F.  Thwing,  A  History  of  Higher  Education  in  A?nerica 
(1906);  Franklin  B.  Dexter,  Documentary  History  of  Yale  University  . . .  1701- 
H45  (New  Haven,  1916);  Mary  L.  Gambrell,  Ministerial  Training  in  Eigh- 
teenth-Century New  England  (1937);  Allen  O.  Hansen,  Liberalism  and 
A?nerican  Education  in  the  Eighteenth  Century  (1926);  Pauline  Holmes,  A 
Tercentary  History  of  the  Boston  Public  Latin  School,  1635-1935  (Cam- 
bridge, 1935);  George  E.  Littlefield,  Early  Schools  and  School-books  of  New 
England  (Boston,  1904);  Edwin  Oviatt,  The  Beginnings  of  Yale  (1701-1726) 
(New  Haven,  1916);  Henry  Hartwell,  James  Blair,  and  Edward  Chilton,  The 
Present  State  of  Virginia,  and  the  College  (London,  1727),  and  ed.  Hunter  D. 
Farish  (Williamsburg,  Va.,  1940);  Thomas  Woody,  Early  Quaker  Education 
in  Pennsylvania  (1920),  and  Quaker  Education  in  the  Colony  and  State  of  New 
Jersey:  A  Source  Book  (Philadelphia,  1923);  and  Colyer  Meriwether,  Our 
Colonial  Curriculum,  1607-1776  (Washington,  1907).  For  Puritan  New 
England,  see  The  Puritans  (p.  992  above),  Chap.  8,  and  bibliography,  pp.  821- 
823. 

On  libraries  and  the  circulation  of  books  see  bibliography,  section  10,  in  The 
Puritans,  and  for  general  studies  and  studies  of  other  districts,  bibliography  in 
LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  82-84.  On  colonial  printers  and  publishers,  see  the  same, 
Vol.  3,  pp.  85-86.  Indispensable  books  are  Lawrence  C.  Wroth,  The  Colonial 
Printer  (rev.  edition,  Portland,  1938),  and  Henry  W.  Boynton.  Annals  of 
American  Bookselling,  1638-1850  (1932).  Frank  L.  Mott,  Golden  Multitudes: 
The  Story  of  Best  Sellers  in  the  United  States  (1947),  Chaps.  1-10,  has  some 
material  on  popular  books  of  the  colonial  period. 

For  the  almanacs,  see  bibliography  in  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  239-241.  Their  im- 
portance is  discussed  in  Clarence  S.  Brigham,  "An  Account  of  American 
Almanacs  and  their  Value  for  Historical  Study"  in  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc.  Proc, 
new  series,  Vol.  35  (Worcester,  1926),  pp.  194-209;  "New  England  Almanacs, 
1 766-1775,  and  the  American  Revolution"  in  Collected  Studies  by  Chester 
Noyes  Greenough,  ed.  Wilbur  C.  Abbott  (Cambridge,  1940),  pp.  195-223;  and 
George  L.  Kittredge,  The  Old  Farmer  and  His  Almanack  (Boston,  1904). 
The  almanacs  of  Nathaniel  Ames  and  his  son  are  discussed  with  copious 
excerpts  in  Samuel  Briggs,  The  Essays,  Humor  and  Poems  of  Nathaniel  Ames, 
Father  and  Son...  From  their  Almanacks,  1726-17$$  (Cleveland,  1891). 

The  best  bibliography  of  colonial  newspapers  is  Clarence  S.  Brigham,  History 
and   Bibliography    of   American   Newspapers,    1690-1820    (Worcester,    1947). 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1007 

Useful  short  histories  are  Frank  L.  Mott,  American  Journalism:  A  History  of 
Newspapers  in  the  United  States  through  250  Years,  1690-1950  (1950),  and 
Robert  W.  Jones,  Journalism  in  the  United  States  (1947).  Sidney  Kobre,  The 
Development  of  the  Colonial  Newspaper  (Pittsburgh,  1944),  is  useful.  An 
Historical  Digest  of  the  Provincial  Press,  ed.  Lyman  H.  Weeks  and  Edwin 
M.  Bacon  (Boston,  191 1),  was  never  carried  beyond  Vol.  1,  but  has  a  helpful 
collection  of  material  from  the  Boston  News-Letter,  through  1707,  and  from 
its  precursors  in  Boston.  On  the  Zenger  case,  see  Livingston  Rutherfurd,  John 
Peter  Zenger:  His  Press,  His  Trial  and  a  Bibliography  of  Zenger  Imprints 
(1904),  and  on  newspaper  censorship  in  Massachusetts,  Clyde  A.  Duniway, 
The  Development  of  freedom  of  the  Press  in  Massachusetts  (1906).  Elizabeth 
C.  Cook,  Literary  Influences  in  Colonial  Newspapers,  1704-1750  (191 2),  is 
valuable,  as  is  Robert  M.  Myers,  "The  Old  Dominion  Looks  to  London:  A 
Study  of  English  Literary  Influences  upon  The  Virginia  Gazette,  1 736-1 766" 
in  Va.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and  Biog.,  Vol.  54  (July,  1946),  pp.  195-217.  Lester  J. 
Cappon  and  Stella  F.  Duff,  Virginia  Gazette  Index,  announced  for  publication 
(Williamsburg,  Va.,  1950),  should  be  indispensable  for  students  of  the  Gazette. 
For  Franklin  as  a  journalist  see  works  on  him  listed  pp.  1010-1012  below. 

The  best  study,  with  good  bibliography,  of  colonial  magazines  is  Lyon  N. 
Richardson,  A  History  of  Early  American  Magazines,  1741-1789  (1931).  Also 
useful  is  Frank  L.  Mott,  A  History  of  American  Magazines,  1741-1850  (1930). 
There  is  good  material  in  Albert  H.  Smyth,  The  Philadelphia  Magazines  and 
their  Contributors,  1741-1850  (Philadelphia,  1892).  The  two  earliest  American 
magazines  have  been  reproduced  in  facsimile,  The  American  Magazine  (1937) 
and  The  General  Magazine  (1938),  both  edited  by  Lyon  N.  Richardson  with 
useful  bibliographical  notes. 

Bibliography  on  William  Livingston  is  on  p.  999  above.  William  Smith 
is  treated  in  Horace  W.  Smith,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  the  Rev.  William 
Smith,  D.D.  (Philadelphia,  1879-80),  and  the  more  recent  Albert  F.  Gegen- 
heimer,  Willia?n  Smith:  Educator  and  Churchman,  1727-1803  (Philadelphia, 
1943).  See  also  DAB.  For  his  works,  in  addition  to  A  General  Idea  of  the 
College  of  Mirania  (1753)  and  his  contributions  to  the  American  Magazine 
(1757-58),  see  his  A  Brief  State  of  the  Province  of  Pennsylvania  (London, 
1755);  A  Brief  View  of  the  Conduct  of  Pennsylvania,  for  the  Year  1755 
(London,  1756);  and  his  Discourses  on  Public  Occasions  in  America  (London, 
1762).  There  are  reprints  of  A  Brief  State  of  the  Province  of  Pennsylvania 
(1865)  and  of  An  Historical  Account  of  the  Expedition  Against  the  Ohio 
Indians  (Cincinnati,  1868). 

For  Thomas  Godfrey  and  Francis  Hopkinson,  see  pp.  1017-1018  below. 
There  is  a  sketch  of  James  Sterling  in  DAB,  and  see  Lawrence  C.  Wroth, 
"James  Sterling:  Poet,  Priest,  and  Prophet  of  Empire"  in  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc. 
Proc,  new  series,  Vol.  41  (Worcester,  1932),  pp.  25-76. 

Isaiah  Thomas  is  treated  in  Clifford  K.  Shipton,  Isaiah  Thomas:  Printer, 
Patriot,  and  Philanthropist  (Rochester,  1948),  Annie  R.  Marble,  From 
'Prentice  to  Patron:  The  Life  Story  of  Isaiah  Thomas  (1935);  and  DAB.  See 
also  The  Diary  of  Isaiah  Thomas,  1805-1828,  ed.  Benjamin  T.  Hill  (Worcester, 
1909),  and  "Extracts  from  the  Diaries ...  of  Isaiah  Thomas  ...  and  his  Diary 
for  1808,"  ed.  Charles  L.  Nichols,  in  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  26  (Worces- 


ioo8         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

ter,  191 6),  pp.  58-79.  Bibliography  and  a  sketch  of  Noah  Webster  is  in 
DAB.  See  for  biography  and  comment  Harry  R.  Warfel,  Noah  Webster: 
Schoolmaster  to  America  (1936);  Horace  E.  Scudder,  Noah  Webster  (1882); 
Emily  E.  Ford,  Notes  on  the  Life  of  Noah  Webster  (1912);  and  Ervin  C. 
Shoemaker,  Noah  Webster:  Pioneer  of  Learning  (1936). 

For  Cotton  Mather,  see  pp.  998,  1003  above.  Special  studies  of  his  scientific 
work  are  George  L.  Kittredge,  "Some  Lost  Works  of  Cotton  Mather,"  Mass. 
Hist.  Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  45  (Boston,  191 2),  pp.  418-479;  "Further  Notes  on  Cotton 
Mather  and  the  Royal  Society,"  Col.  Soc.  of  Mass.  Pub.,  Vol.  14  (Boston, 
191 3),  pp.  281-292;  "Cotton  Mather's  Election  into  the  Royal  Society,"  Col. 
Soc.  of  Mass.  Pub.,  pp.  81-114;  "Cotton  Mather's  Scientific  Communications 
to  the  Royal  Society,"  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc.  Proc,  new  series,  Vol.  26  (Worcester, 
1916),  pp.  18-57;  Theodore  Hornberger,  "The  Date,  the  Source,  and  the 
Significance  of  Cotton  Mather's  Interest  in  Science,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  6  (Jan. 
1935),  pp.  413-420;  Conway  Zirkle,  "Some  Forgotten  Records  of  Hybridization 
and  Sex  in  Plants,  1716-1739,"  Journ.  of  Heredity,  Vol.  23  (Nov.  1932),  pp. 
433-448;  "More  Records  of  Plant  Hybridization  before  Koelreuter,"  Journ. 
of  Heredity,  Vol.  25  (Jan.,  1934),  pp.  3-18,  and  The  Beginnings  of  Plant 
Hybridization  (Philadelphia,  1935).  On  The  Christian  Philosopher,  see 
Theodore  Hornberger,  "Notes  on  The  Christian  Philosopher"  in  Holmes, 
Cotton  Mather  (p.  998  above),  Vol.  1,  pp.  133-138,  and  excerpts  and  comment 
in  Murdock,  Selections  (p.  998  above).  For  the  unpublished  "Angel  of 
Bethesda"  see  Holmes,  Vol.  1,  pp.  40-45.  There  is  a  summary  of  it  in  Amer. 
Antiq.  Soc.  Proc,  No.  62  (April,  1874),  pp.  n-26,  and  excerpts  in  William  S. 
Thayer,  "Cotton  Mather's  Rules  of  Health"  in  Johns  Hopkins  Hospital  Bull., 
Vol.  16  (Sept.  1905),  pp.  293-300. 

For  bibliography  of  Charles  Chauncy  see  Sibley,  Harvard  Graduates 
(p.  999  above),  Vol.  6,  pp.  461-467;  DAB-,  and  Paul  L.  Ford,  Bibliotheca 
Chaunciana:  A  List  of  the  Writings  of  Charles  Chauncy  (Brooklyn,  1884). 
There  is  a  good  essay  on  Chauncy  in  Williston  Walker,  Ten  New  England 
Leaders  (1901). 

Samuel  Johnson  is  the  subject  of  a  sketch  in  DAB,  and  Franklin  B.  Dexter, 
Biographical  Sketches  of  the  Graduates  of  Yale  College  (p.  999  above),  Vol.  1, 
pp.  123-128.  The  best  discussion,  life,  and  collection  of  his  works  is  in  Herbert 
W.  and  Carol  C.  Schneider,  eds.,  Samuel  Johnson,  President  of  King's  College: 
His  Career  and  Writings  (1929).  There  is  valuable  comment  in  Herbert  W. 
Schneider,  History  of  Ainerican  Philosophy  (p.  1001  above);  I.  Woodbridge 
Riley,  American  Philosophy:  The  Early  Schools  (p.  1001  above);  and  Theodore 
Hornberger,  "Samuel  Johnson  of  Yale  and  King's  College:  A  Note  on  the 
Relation  of  Science  and  Religion  in  Provincial  America,"  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  8  (Sept.  1935),  pp.  378-397. 

Bibliography  for  Samuel  Sewall  is  in  Sibley,  Vol.  2,  pp.  360-364;  DAB; 
and  LHUS.  His  diary  is  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc  Coll.,  series  5,  Vols.  5-7  (Boston, 
1878-82).  For  letters,  see  Letter-Book  of  Samuel  Sewall,  in  Mass,  Hist.  Soc 
Coll.,  series  6,  Vols.  1  and  2  (Boston,  1886-88),  and  Col.  Soc.  of  Mass.  Pub., 
Vol.  14  (Boston,  191 3),  pp.  142-155.  There  is  a  condensed  version  of  the  diary, 
ed.  Mark  Van  Doren  (1927).  His  anti-Slavery  tract,  The  Selling  of  Joseph: 
A  Memorial,  has  been  reprinted  (1864).  The  only  full  biography,  Nathan  H. 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1009 

Chamberlain,  Samuel  Sewall  and  the  World  He  Lived  In  (Boston,  1897)  is 
disappointing.  Other  biographical  accounts  are  in  Sibley,  Vol.  2,  pp.  345-360, 
and  DAB.  See  also  "A  Puritan  Pepys"  in  Henry  C.  Lodge,  Studies  in  History 
(Boston,  1884),  and  Henry  W.  Lawrence,  "Samuel  Sewall:  Revealer  of  Puritan 
New  England,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  33  (Jan.  1934),  pp.  20-37,  and 
Murdock,  Literature  and  Theology  (p.  997  above),  pp.  106-109. 

For  Sarah  Kemble  Knight  see  DAB.  Her  journal,  first  printed  in  The 
Journals  of  Madam  Knight  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Buckingham,  ed.  Theodore 
D wight  (1825),  has  been  reprinted  (Albany,  1865;  Norwich,  Conn.,  1901). 
The  best  recent  edition  is  The  Journal  of  Madam  Knight,  ed.  George  P. 
Winship  (Boston,  1920,  reissued  in  facsimile,  1935).  See  also  Anson  Titus, 
"Madam  Sarah  Knight:  Her  Diary  and  Her  Times,  1666- 1726,"  Bostonian 
Soc.  Pub.,  Vol.  9  (Boston,  191 2),  pp.  99-126. 

The  hinerarium  of  Dr.  Alexander  Hamilton  was  first  printed,  ed.  Albert 
B.  Hart,  in  a  privately  printed  limited  edition  (St.  Louis,  1907).  The  best 
edition  is  Gentleman's  Progress:  The  hinerarium  of  Dr.  Alexander  Hamilton, 
1 J 44,  ed.  Carl  Bridenbaugh  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  G,  1948),  which  contains  bio- 
graphical and  bibliographical  material.  See  also  DAB. 


CHAPTER    7 

JONATHAN  EDWARDS  AND  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN 


The  most  useful  bibliographical  guides  for  Jonathan  Edwards  are  Thomas  H. 
Johnson,  The  Printed  Writings  of  Jonathan  Edwards . . . :  A  Bibliography 
(Princeton,  1940),  and  the  bibliographies  in  Jonathan  Edwards:  Representative 
Selections,  ed.  Clarence  H.  Faust  and  Thomas  H.  Johnson  (1935);  LHUS; 
and  Ola  E.  Winslow,  Jonathan  Edwards,  1703-1758:  A  Biography  (1940). 
The  earliest  collected  edition  is  The  Works  of  President  Edwards,  ed.  Edward 
Williams  and  Edward  Parsons  (Leeds,  England,  1806-11),  which  was  reprinted 
with  two  extra  Vols.  (London,  181 7  and  1847).  The  Works  of  President  Ed- 
wards . . .  ed.  Samuel  Austin  (Worcester,  1808-9)  ^so  nas  a  good  text.  This  was 
reprinted  (1843  and  various  later  dates).  The  Works  of  President  Edwards: 
With  a  Memoir  of  his  Life,  ed.  Sereno  E.  Dwight  (1829-30),  unfortunately 
has  some  editorial  garblings  of  the  text.  The  Works  of  Jonathan  Edwards, 
A.M.:  With  an  Essay  on  his  Genius  and  Writings,  ed.  Edward  Hickman 
(London,  1834)  has  been  several  times  reprinted— the  "Essay"  is  by  Henry 
Rogers.  No  one  of  these  editions  is  complete.  Some  material  not  included  is 
in  Charity  and  its  Fruits,  ed.  Tryon  Edwards  (1852);  An  Unpublished  Essay 
of  Edwards  on  the  Trinity  . .  .,  ed.  George  P.  Fisher  (1903);  Selections  from 
the  Unpublished  Writings  of  Jonathan  Edwards . . .,  ed.  Alexander  B.  Grosart 
(Edinburgh,  1865);  Perry  Miller,  "Jonathan  Edwards  on  the  Sense  of  the 
Heart"  in  Harvard  Theol.  Rev.,  Vol.  41  (April,  1948),  pp.  123-145,  and 
"Jonathan  Edwards'  Sociology  of  the  Great  Awakening"  in  New  England 
Quart.,  Vol.  21  (March,  1948),  pp.  50-77;  Miller's  edition  of  Edwards,  Images 
or  Shadows  of  Divine  Th'mgs  (New  Haven,  1948);  and  Observations  Concern- 
ing the  Scripture  Oeco?wmy  of  the  Trinity  and  Covenant  of  Redemption,  ed. 
Egbert    C.    Smyth     (1880).    Smyth,    "Some    Early    Writings    of    Jonathan 


ioio         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

Edwards ..."  in  Amer.  Antiq.  Soc.  Proc,  new  series,  Vol.  10  (Worcester, 
1896),  pp.  212-247,  carefully  prints  some  pieces  from  the  original  MSS. 
Jonathan  Edwards:  Representative  Selections  is  a  valuable  anthology  with  an 
excellent  critical  introduction. 

Perry  Miller,  Jonathan  Edwards  (1949),  offers  the  essential  biographical 
material  together  with  the  most  brilliant  analysis  yet  made  of  Edwards's  ideas 
from  the  modern  point  of  view.  Still  useful  are  Alexander  V.  G.  Allen, 
Jonathan  Edwards  (Boston,  1889),  a  biography  which  concentrates  on  the 
theological  aspect;  Arthur  C.  McGifTert,  Jr.,  Jonathan  Edwards  (1932);  and 
Ola  E.  Winslow's  narrative  life,  cited  above.  Sereno  E.  Dwight,  The  Life  of 
President  Edwards  (1829),  included  as  Vol.  1  in  his  edition  of  the  works,  has 
much  good  material,  and  Samuel  Hopkins,  The  Life  and  Character  of  the  late 
Rev.  Jonathan  Edwards  (Boston,  1765),  is  an  interesting  book  by  an  admiring 
disciple.  The  brief  life  by  Francis  A.  Christie  in  DAB  gives  an  excellent  sum- 
mary of  Edwards's  thought.  Also  helpful  is  the  brief  sketch  in  The  Life  and 
Diary  of  David  Brainerd,  ed.  Jonathan  Edwards,  reprinted  and  ed.  by  Philip 
E.  Howard,  Jr.  (Chicago,  1949). 

Among  the  many  special  studies  the  following  are  of  interest  to  students 
of  Edwards  as  writer:  Thomas  H.  Johnson,  ''Jonathan  Edwards  as  a  Man  of 
Letters,"  unpublished  Harvard  thesis  (1932)  in  Harvard  College  Library; 
Thomas  H.  Johnson,  "Jonathan  Edwards'  Background  of  Reading,"  in  Col. 
Soc.  of  Mass.  Pub.,  Vol.  28  (Boston,  1935),  pp.  193-222;  and  especially  Perry 
Miller's  Intro,  in  linages  or  Shadows,  and  section  3  of  the  Intro,  in  Jonathan 
Edwards:  Representative  Selections.  See  also  Edwin  H.  Cady,  "The  Artistry 
of  Jonathan  Edwards,"  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  22  (March,  1949), 
pp.  61-72. 

Benjamin  Franklin  has  been  the  subject  of  a  vast  amount  of  writing  and 
wrote  voluminously  himself.  The  most  convenient  bibliographies  are  those  in 
LHUS  and  Benjamin  Franklin:  Representative  Selections,  ed.  Frank  L.  Mott 
and  Chester  E.  Jorgenson  (1936).  The  Bibliography  in  Bernard  Fay,  Benjamin 
Franklin  . . .,  Vol.  3  (Paris,  193 1),  is  useful.  There  is  a  much  condensed  version 
of  it  in  Fay,  Franklin:  The  Apostle  of  Modern  Times  (Boston,  1929).  See 
also  Marion  Dargan,  Guide  to  American  Biography,  Part  1,  1607-181$ 
(Albuquerque,  N.  M.,  1949),  pp.  51-55.  Out  of  date  but  still  valuable  is  Paul 
L.  Ford,  Franklin  Bibliography  ...  (Brooklyn,  1889).  There  is  no  complete 
edition  of  Franklin  but  the  standard  ones  are  The  Works  of  Benjamin 
Franklin...,  ed.  Jared  Sparks  (Boston,  1836-40),  which  suffers  from  un- 
warranted editorial  emendations;  The  Complete  Works  of  Benjamin 
Franklin . . .,  ed.  John  Bigelow  (1887-88);  and  The  Writings  of  Benjamin 
Franklin,  ed.  Albert  H.  Smyth  (1905-7),  which  unfortunately  omits  some 
pieces  which  seemed  to  the  editor  too  indelicate  or  too  radical,  but  is  still 
probably  the  best  collected  edition.  It  may  be  supplemented  by  Benjamin 
Franklin,  Satires  &  Bagatelles,  ed.  Paul  McPharlin  (Detroit,  1937),  and  other 
works  listed  in  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  510-51 1.  Benjamin  Franklin:  Representative 
Selections  is  a  good  anthology. 

For  volumes  containing  letters  by  Franklin  see  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  509-510, 
and  Benjamin  Franklin  and  Catharine  Ray  Greene:  Their  Correspondence, 
n5S~n9°}  CCL  William  G.  Roelker   (Philadelphia,   1949). 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  ion 

The  famous  Autobiography  presents  special  bibliographical  problems.  There 
are  four  "source  texts,"  printed  in  Benjamin  Franklin's  Memoirs:  Parallel  Text 
Edition  . . .,  ed.  Max  Farrand  and  prepared  for  publication  by  Godfrey  Davies 
and  Edith  L.  Klotz  (Berkeley,  1949).  The  Autobiography  of  Benjamin  Frank- 
lin: A  Restoration  of  A  uFair  Copy"  by  Max  Farrand,  completed  by  Godfrey 
Davies  and  others  (Berkeley,  1949),  attempts  to  supply  a  new  and  better  ver- 
sion, based  on  the  four  "source  texts,"  but  is  very  disappointing  (see  review  by 
Donald  H.  Mugridge  in  Wm.  and  Mary  Quart.  (Oct.  1949),  pp.  649-659). 
The  introduction  by  Farrand  in  this  and  the  preceding  item  contain  indis- 
pensable material.  John  Bigelow's  text  of  the  Autobiography  (first  printed 
Philadelphia,  1868),  is  probably  still  the  best  and  the  one  most  often  followed 
in  the  many  reprints. 

The  best  of  the  older  biographies  of  Franklin  are  William  C.  Bruce, 
Benjamin  Franklin,  Self-Revealed  (191 7);  Paul  L.  Ford,  The  Many-Sided 
Franklin  (1899);  James  Parton,  Life  and  Times  of  Benjamin  Franklin  (1864). 
The  newest  and  probably  the  most  useful  today  is  Carl  Van  Doren,  Benjamin 
Franklin  (1938,  and  later  editions).  Still  interesting  to  students  of  literature 
is  John  B.  McMaster,  Benjamin  Franklin  as  a  Man  of  Letters  (Boston,  1887). 
Useful  biographically  also  is  Benjamin  Franklin's  Autobiographical  Writings, 
ed.  Carl  Van  Doren  (1948).  Carl  L.  Becker,  Benjamin  Franklin:  A  Biographi- 
cal Sketch  (1946)  is  a  reprint  of  the  author's  article  in  DAB. 

Among  the  many  other  works  on  Franklin  some  which  are  useful  for 
literary  history  are:  A.  O.  Aldridge,  "Franklin's  'Shaftesburian'  Dialogues  not 
Franklin's:  A  Revision  of  the  Franklin  Canon"  in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  21  (May, 
1949),  pp.  1 51-159;  Verner  W.  Crane,  "Three  Fables  by  Benjamin  Franklin," 
in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  9  (Sept.,  1936),  pp.  499-504;  Worthington  C. 
Ford,  "Franklin's  New  England  Courant,"  in  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  57 
(Boston,  1924),  pp.  336-353;  G.  B.  Goode,  "The  Literary  Labors  of  Benjamin 
Franklin"  in  Amer.  Phil.  Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  28  (Philadelphia,  1890),  pp.  177-197; 
Charles  H.  Grandgent,  "Benjamin  Franklin  the  Reformer"  in  Prunes  and 
Prism ...  (Cambridge,  1928),  on  spelling  reform;  Richard  M.  Gummere, 
"Socrates  at  the  Printing  Press:  Benjamin  Franklin  and  the  Classics,"  in  Classical 
Weekly,  Vol.  26  (Dec.  5,  1932),  pp.  57-59;  George  F.  Horner,  "Franklin's 
Dogood  Papers  Re-examined,"  in  Stud,  in  Philol.,  Vol.  37  (July,  1940),  pp. 
501-523;  Chester  E.  Jorgenson,  "Sidelights  on  Benjamin  Franklin's  Principles 
of  Rhetoric,"  in  Revue  Anglo- Amer icaine,  Vol.  11  (Feb.,  1934),  pp.  208-222; 
Lois  M.  MacLaurin,  Franklin's  Vocabulary  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1928);  Kemp 
Malone,  "Benjamin  Franklin  on  Spelling  Reform,"  in  Amer.  Speech,  Vol.  1 
(Nov.,  1925),  pp.  96-100;  and  John  F.  Ross,  "The  Character  of  Poor  Richard: 
Its  Source  and  Alteration,"  in  PMLA,  Vol.  ^  (Sept.,  1940),  pp.  785-794.  There 
are  interesting  comments  on  Franklin's  style  in  Noah  Webster,  Dissertations  on 
the  English  Language  . . .  To  which  is  Added,  By  Way  of  Appendix,  an  Essay 
on  a  Reformed  Mode  of  Spelling...  (Boston,  1789),  and  an  amusing  critical 
sidelight  in  Lewis  Leary,  "Joseph  Dennie  on  Benjamin  Franklin:  A  Note  on 
Early  American  Literary  Criticism,"  Pa.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and  Biog.,  Vol.  72 
(July,  1948),  pp.  240-246. 

Benjamin  Franklin's  Experiments:  A  New  Edition  of  Franklin's  Experiments 
and  Observations  on  Electricity,  ed.  I.  Bernard   Cohen    (Cambridge,    1941), 


1012         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

contains  an  introduction  which  is  probably  for  lay  readers  the  best  study  of 
one  important  branch  of  Franklin's  scientific  work. 

The  contrast  between  Edwards  and  Franklin  has  often  been  pointed  out— 
cf.,  for  example,  Benjamin  Franklin  and  ]onathan  Edwards:  Selections  from 
their  Writings,  ed.  Carl  Van  Doren  (1920),  Intro.;  and  Frank  Davidson,  "Three 
Patterns  of  Living,"  in  Amer.  Assoc.  Univ.  Prof.  Bull.,  Vol.  34  (Summer,  1948), 
pp.  364-374- 

CHAPTER    8 

WOOLMAN,  CREVECOEUR,  AND 
THE  ROMANTIC  VISION  OF  AMERICA 

For  colonial  Quakerism,  see  especially  Rufus  M.  Jones,  The  Quakers  in  the 
American  Colonies  (London,  191 1 ).  Frederick  B.  Tolles,  Meeting  House  and 
Counting  House:  The  Quaker  Merchants  of  Colonial  Philadelphia,  1682-1763 
(Williamsburg,  Va.,  1948),  has  much  good  material.  For  literary  aspects  of 
Quakerism,  see  Luella  M.  Wright,  The  Literary  Life  of  the  Early  Friends, 
16 50-17 25  (1932),  and  Howard  W.  Hintz,  The  Quaker  Influence  in  American 
Literature  (1940). 

There  are  bibliographies  for  John  Woolman  in  The  Journal  and  Essays  of 
John  Woolman,  ed.  Amelia  M.  Gummere  (1922);  Janet  Whitney,  John  Wool- 
man:  American  Quaker  (Boston,  1942);  DAB;  and  LHUS.  The  most  complete 
edition  of  his  writing  is  in  Gummere.  The  Journal  has  been  reprinted  many 
times  since  it  first  appeared  in  The  Works  of  John  Woolman  (Philadelphia, 
1774).  The  best  biographies  are  in  Gummere,  Whitney,  and  DAB. 

Of  the  many  articles  and  special  studies  the  following  are  especially  useful: 
George  M.  Trevelyan,  "John  Woolman,  the  Quaker"  in  Clio,  a  Muse:  and 
Other  Essays ...  (London,  191 3 ) ;  Willard  L.  Sperry,  "The  Journal  of  John 
Woolman"  in  Strangers  &  Pilgrims . . .  (Boston,  1939);  and  John  G.  Whittier, 
Intro,  in  his  edition  of  The  Journal  of  John  Woolman  (Boston,  1871).  There 
is  a  suggestive  comparison  with  Edwards  and  Franklin  in  Frank  Davidson, 
"Three  Patterns  of  Living"  (cited  on  same  page  above),  and  some  good  com- 
ment in  Savelle,  Seeds  of  Liberty  (p.  1003  above). 

For  Samuel  Sewall,  see  p.  1008  above.  There  is  a  list  of  books  on  early  anti- 
Slavery  feeling  in  Kraus,  The  Atlantic  Civilization  (p.  1006  above),  p.  322. 

There  are  bibliographies  for  Michel-Guillaume  Jean  de  Crevecoeur  in 
Howard  C.  Rice,  Le  Cidtivateur  Americain:  Etude  sur  VOeuvre  de  Saint  John 
de  Crevecoeur  (Paris,  1933),  DAB,  and  LHUS.  There  is  no  collected  edition, 
but  the  Letters  from  an  American  Farmer  was  reprinted,  ed.  William  P.  Trent 
and  Ludwig  Lewisohn  (1904),  and  ed.  Warren  B.  Blake  in  Everyman's  Library 
(London,  191 2).  Other  writings  are  in  Sketches  of  Eighteenth  Century 
America,  ed.  Henri  L.  Bourdin,  Ralph  H.  Gabriel,  and  Stanley  T.  Williams 
(New  Haven,  1925);  and  in  "Crevecoeur  on  the  Susquehanna,  1774- 1776,"  in 
Yale  Rev.,  new  series,  Vol.  14  (April,  1925),  pp.  552-584;  "Crevecoeur,  the 
Loyalist:  The  Grotto:  An  Unpublished  Letter  from  the  American  Farmer," 
in  the  Nation,  Vol.  121  (Sept.  23,  1925),  pp.  328-330;  "Hospitals  (During  the 
Revolution),"  in  Philol.  Quart.,  Vol.  5  (April,  1926),  pp.  157-165;  and  "Sketch 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1013 

of  a  Contrast  Between  the  Spanish  &  the  English  Colonies,"  in  Univ.  of  Cal. 
Chron.,  Vol.  28  (April,  1926),  pp.  152-163;  all  ed.  Bourdin  and  Williams.  The 
best  biographies  are  Rice,  Le  Cultivateur  Americain,  and  Julia  P.  Mitchell, 
St.  Jean  de  Crevecoeur  (1916).  There  is  a  good  sketch  in  DAB. 

For  American  influences  on  European  thought  in  the  eighteenth  century, 
see  Kraus,  The  Atlantic  Civilization;  Gilbert  Chinard,  "The  American  Dream," 
in  LHUS,  Vol.  1,  Chap.  15;  Benjamin  Bissell,  The  American  Indian  in  English 
Literature  of  the  Eighteenth  Century  (New  Haven,  1925);  Albert  Keiser,  The 
Indian  in  American  Literature  (1933);  and  Hoxie  N.  Fairchild,  The  Noble 
Savage:  A  Study  in  Romantic  Naturalism  (1928). 

For  Jonathan  Carver,  see  DAB,  and  Edward  G.  Bourne,  "The  Travels  of 
Jonathan  Carver,"  in  Amer.  Hist.  Rev.,  Vol.  11  (Jan.,  1906),  pp.  287-302;  Louise 
P.  Kellogg,  "The  Mission  of  Jonathan  Carver,"  Wisconsin  Mag.  of  Hist.,  Vol. 
12  (Dec,  1928),  pp.  127-145;  John  T.  Lee,  A  Bibliography  of  Carver's  Travels 
(Madison,  1910),  from  State  Hist.  Soc.  of  Wis.  Proc.  for  1909,  and  Captain  John 
Carver:  Additional  Data  (Madison,  191 3),  from  the  same,  for  191 2;  and  CHAL, 
Vol.  1,  pp.  192-194. 

For  bibliography  of  John  Bartram,  see  LHUS  and  DAB,  and  the  Bartram 
bibliography  in  Bartonia:  Proc.  of  Phila.  Botanical  Club  (Dec.  31,  193 1).  His 
Journal  was  reprinted,  ed.  Francis  Harper,  in  Amer.  Phil.  Soc.  Trans.,  new 
series,  Vol.  33,  Part  1  (Philadelphia,  1942),  pp.  1-120,  and  his  Observations 
(Geneva,  N.  Y.,  1895).  For  biography  see  DAB;  Ernest  Earnest,  John  and 
William  Bartram:  Botanists  and  Explorers,  1699-1777,  1739-1823  (Philadelphia, 
1940).  See  also  Kraus,  Atlantic  Civilization,  passim,  and  John  H.  Barnhart, 
"The  Significance  of  John  Bartram's  Work  to  Botanical  and  Horticultural 
Knowledge,"  in  Bartonia  (Dec.  31,  193 1 ),  pp.  24-34. 

Lewis  Evans  is  the  subject  of  a  long  bibliographical  note  in  Wroth, 
American  Bookshelf  (p.  1001  above),  pp.  148-166.  See  also  DAB,  and  Lawrence 
H.  Gipson,  Lewis  Evans  (Philadelphia,  1939),  which  gives  biographical  data 
and  prints  Evans's  Brief  Account  of  Pennsylvania  from  his  MS  as  well  as  his 
Geographical ..  .Essays  (Philadelphia,  1755,  1756).  See  also  Wroth,  above, 
pp.  48-56. 

Bibliography  for  William  Bartram  is  in  Bartonia  (Dec.  31,  193 1 );  Nathan  B. 
Fagin,  William  Bartram:  Interpreter  of  the  American  Landscape  (Baltimore, 
1933);  and  DAB.  The  Travels  were  reprinted,  ed.  Mark  Van  Doren  (1928). 
The  best  text,  edited  from  the  MSS  by  Francis  Harper,  is  in  Amer.  Phil.  Soc. 
Trans.,  new  series,  Vol.  33  (Philadelphia,  1943),  pp.  121-242.  Bartram's  "Ob- 
servations on  the  Creek  and  Cherokee  Indians,  1789,"  is  in  Amer.  Ethnol.  Soc. 
Trans.,  Vol.  3  (1853),  pp.  1-81.  For  biography,  see  DAB;  Earnest,  above,  and 
Fagin,  above.  On  his  literary  influence  see  Ernest  H.  Coleridge,  "Coleridge, 
Wordsworth,  and  the  American  Botanist,  William  Bartram,"  Royal  Soc.  of 
Lit.  Trans.,  Vol.  27  (London,  1906),  pp.  69-92,  and  John  L.  Lowes,  The  Road 
to  Xanadu  (Boston,  1927). 


i oi4        THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 


CHAPTER    9 

THE  LITERATURE  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY 
CONTROVERSY 

The  most  detailed  treatment  of  the  literature  of  the  Revolutionary  period  is 
Moses  C.  Tyler,  The  Literary  History  of  the  American  Revolution  (p.  991 
above).  In  addition  to  the  histories  cited  previously  the  following  books  supply 
useful  background  for  literary  students:  Randolph  G.  Adams,  Political  Ideas 
of  the  American  Revolution:  Britannic- American  Contributions  to  the  Problem 
of  Imperial  Organization,  176 5- 777 5  (Durham,  N.  C,  1922);  Charles  McL. 
Andrews,  The  Colonial  Background  of  the  American  Revolution  . . .  (New 
Haven,  1924);  Richard  Frothingham,  The  Rise  of  the  Republic  of  the  United 
States  (Boston,  1872);  Evarts  B.  Greene,  The  Revolutionary  Generation,  1763- 
1790  (1943);  John  F.  Jameson,  The  American  Revolution  Considered  as  a 
Social  Movement  (Princeton,  1926,  reprinted,  1950);  Michael  Kraus,  Inter- 
colonial Aspects  (p.  1005  above);  Charles  F.  Mullett,  Fundamental  Law  and 
the  American  Revolution,  1760-1776  (1933);  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger,  The 
Colonial  Merchants  and  the  American  Revolution,  1763-1776  (1918);  and 
Claude  H.  Van  Tyne,  The  Causes  of  the  War  of  Independence  (Boston,  1922). 

Especially  important  for  the  subject  of  this  chapter  are  Philip  G.  Davidson, 
Propaganda  and  the  American  Revolution,  1763-1783  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1941) 
and  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger,  "Propaganda  and  the  Boston  Newspaper  Press, 
1767-1770,"  in  Col.  Soc.  of  Mass.  Pub.,  Vol.  32  (Boston,  1937),  PP-  396-416,  and 
"The  Colonial  Newspapers  and  the  Stamp  Act,"  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol. 
8  (March,  1935),  pp.  63-83. 

Good  material  on  the  religious  background  of  the  Revolution  is  in  Alice  M. 
Baldwin,  The  New  England  Clergy  and  the  A?nerican  Revolution  (Durham, 
N.  C,  1928);  Herbert  D.  Foster,  "International  Calvinism  through  Locke  and 
the  Revolution  of  1688,"  in  Amer.  Hist.  Rev.,  Vol.  32  (April,  1927),  pp. 
475-499;  and  Gustav  Adolf  Koch,  Republican  Religion:  The  American  Revolu- 
tion and  the  Cult  of  Reason  (1933). 

Bibliographies  for  John  Wise  are  in  CHAL;  Sibley,  Biographical  Sketches 
(p.  999  above),  Vol.  2,  pp.  440-441;  DAB;  and  LHUS.  His  The  Churches 
Quarrel ...  (Boston,  17 10)  and  A  Vindication ...  (Boston,  171 7)  were  re- 
printed together  (Boston,  1772),  and,  ed.  J.  S.  Clark,  (Boston,  i860).  Other 
writings  are  in  New  England  Hist,  and  Geneal.  Register,  Vol.  30  (Boston, 
1876),  pp.  64-67,  and  Mass.  Hist.  Soc.  Proc,  2d  series,  Vol.  15  (Boston,  1902), 
pp.  283-296.  There  are  biographical  accounts  in  DAB  and  Sibley,  Vol.  2, 
pp.  428-440.  See  also  Thomas  F.  Waters,  "John  Wise  of  Chebacco,"  Ipswich 
Hist.  Soc.  Pub.,  no.  26  (Ipswich,  Mass.,  1927),  pp.  1-23;  Paul  S.  McElroy, 
"John  Wise:  The  Father  of  American  Independence,"  in  Essex  Inst.  Hist.  Coll., 
Vol.  81  (July,  1945),  pp-  201-226;  and  Clinton  L.  Rossiter,  "John  Wise: 
Colonial  Democrat,"  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  22  (March,  1949),  pp.  3-32. 

Bibliographies  for  Jonathan  Mayhew  are  in  CHAL  and  DAB.  His  Dis- 
course Concerning  Unlimited  Submission  and  Non-Resistance  to  the  Higher 
Powers  (Boston,  1750)  was  reprinted  in  John  W.  Thornton,  The  Pulpit  of  the 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1015 

American  Revolution  (Boston,  i860).  For  biography,  see  DAB  and  Alden  Brad- 
ford, Memoir  of  the  Life  and  Writings  of  Rev.  Jonathan  May  hew  . . .  (Boston, 
1838). 

On  the  controversy  about  bishops,  see  Arthur  L.  Cross,  The  Anglican 
Episcopate  and  the  American  Colonies  (1902).  The  cartoon  referred  to  in  the 
text  is  reproduced  in  Thornton,  above. 

For  Jacob  Duche  see  DAB.  For  Jonathan  Boucher,  see  DAB;  bibliography 
in  Marion  Dargan,  Guide  to  American  Biography,  Part  1:  1607-1815  (Albu- 
querque, N.  M.,  1949),  pp.  iio-iii;  Reminiscences  of  an  American  Loyalist, 
1738-1789:  Being  the  Autobiography  of  the  Rev.  Jonathan  Boucher . . .,  ed. 
Jonathan  Bouchier  (Boston,  1925);  and  Robert  G.  Walker,  "Jonathan  Boucher: 
Champion  of  the  Minority,"  in  Wm.  and  Mary  Quart.,  3rd  series,  Vol.  2  (Jan. 

1945).  PP-  3-H- 

Daniel  Dulany  is  the  subject  of  a  sketch,  with  bibliography  in  DAB.  See 
also  Richard  Henry  Spencer,  "Hon.  Daniel  Dulany,  172 2- 1797  (The  Younger)," 
Maryland  Hist.  Mag.,  Vol.  13  (June,  1918),  pp.  143-160. 

There  are  bibliographies  for  James  Otis  in  LHUS  and  DAB.  His  political 
writings  are  in  Some  Political  Writings  of  James  Otis,  ed.  Charles  F.  Mullett 
(Columbia,  Mo.,  1929).  There  is  a  biographical  sketch  in  DAB,  and  see  also 
William  Tudor,  The  Life  of  James  Otis ...  (Boston,  1823);  John  H.  Ellis, 
"James  Otis,"  in  Amer.  Law  Rev.,  Vol.  3  (July,  1869),  pp.  641-665.  There  is 
valuable  material  in  Benjamin  F.  Wright,  Jr.,  American  Interpretations  of 
Natural  Law  . . .  (Cambridge,  193 1 ),  pp.  64-70,  and  in  Tyler,  Literary  History 
(p.  991  above),  Vol.  1,  pp.  30-52. 

There  is  bibliographical  material  for  John  Adams,  in  DAB,  LHUS,  and  in 
the  standard  collected  edition,  The  Works  of  John  Adams,  ed.  Charles  F. 
Adams  (Boston,  1850-56).  There  is  a  good  selection  in  The  Selected  Writings 
of  John  and  John  Quincy  Ada?ns,  ed.  Adrienne  Koch  and  William  Peden 
(1946).  Collections  of  letters  are:  Letters  of  John  Adams:  Addressed  to  his 
Wife,  ed.  Charles  F.  Adams  (Boston,  1841);  Familiar  Letters  of  John  Adams 
and  His  Wife,  same  editor  (1875);  the  Warren- Adams  Letters,  in  Mass.  Hist. 
Soc.  Coll.,  Vols.  72  and  73  (Boston,  191 7,  1925);  Correspondence  of  John 
Adams  and  Thomas  Jefferson,  ed.  Paul  Wilstach  (Indianapolis,  1925);  States- 
man and  Friend:  Correspondence  of  John  Adams  with  Benjamin  Waterhouse, 
1784-1822,  ed.  Worthington  C.  Ford  (Boston,  1927);  and  "Letters  of  John 
Adams  and  John  Quincy  Adams,  1776- 183 8"  in  N.  Y.  Pub.  Lib.  Bull.,  Vol.  10 
(April,  1906),  pp.  227-250.  New  Letters  of  Abigail  Ada?ns,  1788-1801,  admirably 
edited  by  Stewart  Mitchell  (Boston,  1947),  is  full  of  revealing  material  on 
John  Adams.  Vol.  1  of  the  Works  contains  a  biography,  which  was  reprinted, 
revised  and  corrected  (Philadelphia,  1871).  See  also  DAB;  James  T.  Adams, 
The  Adams  Family  (Boston,  1930),  pp.  7-1 15;  and  Gilbert  Chinard,  Honest 
John  Adams  (Boston,  1933).  Valuable  material  on  Adams'  politics  is  in  Mellen 
Chamberlain,  John  Adams:  the  Statesman  of  the  American  Revolution  (Boston, 
1884);  Correa  M.  Walsh,  The  Political  Science  of  John  Adams ...  (1915); 
Francis  N.  Thorpe,  "The  Political  Ideas  of  John  Adams,"  in  Pa.  Mag.  of  Hist. 
and  Biog.,  Vol.  44  (Jan.  1920),  pp.  1-46;  and  Joseph  Dorfman,  "The  Regal 
Republic  of  John  Adams,"  in  Pol.  Sci.  Quart.,  Vol.  59  (June,  1944),  pp. 
227-247.  An  interesting  article  bearing  on  Adams  as  a  man  of  letters  is  Dorothy 


i oi 6         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

M.  Robathan,  "John  Adams  and  the  Classics,"  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol. 
19  (March,  1946),  pp.  91-98. 

For  bibliographies  for  Samuel  Adams  and  Patrick  Henry  see  DAB  and 
Dargan,  Guide  to  American  Biography,  pp.  83-84,  97-98.  Biographies  are  James 
K.  Hosmer,  Samuel  Adams:  The  Man  of  the  Town  Meeting  (Baltimore,  1884); 
Ralph  V.  Harlow,  Samuel  Adams ...  (1923);  John  C.  Miller,  Sam  Adams: 
Pioneer  in  Propaganda  (Boston,  1936);  Moses  C.  Tyler,  Patrick  Henry  (Boston, 
1887);  Jacob  Axelrad,  Patrick  Henry:  The  Voice  of  Freedom  (1947);  and 
William  W.  Henry,  Patrick  Henry:  Life,  Correspondence  and  Speeches  (1891). 
See  also  Harry  Alonzo  Cushing,  ed.,  The  Writings  of  Samuel  Adams  (1904-8). 

On  the  Loyalists,  see  Tyler,  Literary  History,  Chap.  13;  Edward  A.  Jones, 
The  Loyalists  of  Massachusetts ...  (London,  1930);  Lorenzo  Sabine,  Bio- 
graphical Sketches  of  Loyalists  of  the  American  Revolution  . . .  (Boston,  1864); 
and  Claude  H.  Van  Tyne,  The  Loyalists  in  the  American  Revolution  (1902). 
See  bibliography  in  Morison  and  Commager,  Growth  of  the  American  Repub- 
lic (p.  991  above),  Vol.  1,  pp.  759-760. 

Joseph  Galloway  is  treated  in  DAB,  Oliver  C.  Kuntzleman,  Joseph  Gallo- 
way, Loyalist  (Philadelphia,  1941),  Julian  P.  Boyd,  Anglo-American  Union: 
Joseph  Galloway's  Plans  to  Preserve  the  British  Empire . . .  (Philadelphia, 
1945),  and  Ernest  H.  Baldwin,  Joseph  Galloway:  The  Loyalist  Politician 
(Philadelphia,  1902).  There  is  a  sketch  of  Daniel  Leonard  in  DAB.  See  also 
Ralph  Davol,  Two  Men  of  Taunton...  (Taunton,  Mass.,  1912),  and  William 
R.  Deane,  A  Genealogical  Memoir  of  the  Leonard  Family  (Boston,  1851 ). 

John  Dickinson  is  the  subject  of  bibliographies  in  LHUS  and  DAB.  For 
editions  of  his  works  see  The  Political  Writings  of  John  Dickinson,  Esq. . . . 
(Wilmington,  1801;  reprinted  18 14),  and  The  Writings  of  John  Dickinson, 
ed.  Paul  L.  Ford  (Philadelphia,  1895),  Vol.  1.  No  other  volumes  of  this  were 
published.  There  is  an  edition  of  the  Letters  from  a  Farmer  in  Pennsylvania, 
ed.  R.  T.  H.  Halsey  (1903).  For  biography  see  DAB  and  Charles  J.  Stille,  The 
Life  and  Times  of  John  Dickinson,  1732-1808  (Philadelphia,  1891).  See  also 
Wharton  Dickinson,  "John  Dickinson . . .  the  Great  Colonial  Essayist,"  in 
Mag.  of  Amer.  Hist.,  Vol.  10  (Sept.,  1883),  pp.  223-234;  John  H.  Powell, 
"John  Dickinson,  President  of  the  Delaware  State,  1 781-1782,"  in  Delaware 
Hist.,  Vol.  1  (Jan.,  July,  1946),  pp.  1-54,  111-134;  and  the  same  author's 
unpublished  Univ.  of  Iowa  thesis,  "John  Dickinson,  Penman  of  the  American 
Revolution"  (1938). 

For  Samuel  Seabury,  see  bibliography  and  biography  in  DAB,  and  Eben  E. 
Bcardsley,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  the  Right  Reverend  Samuel  Seabury, 
D.D. . . .  (Boston,  1881).  For  his  writings,  see  Letters  of  a  Westchester  Farmer, 
1 11 4-' IIS,  cd.  Clarence  H.  Vance,  Vol.  8  of  Westchester  Hist.  Soc.  Pub. 
(White  Plains,  N.  Y.,  1930). 

Bibliography  for  Alexander  Hamilton  is  on  p.  1020  below. 

Thomas  Paine  is  the  subject  of  a  voluminous  literature.  The  best  guides  to 
it  arc  the  bibliographies  in  LHUS  and  in  Thomas  Paine:  Representative  Selec- 
tions, ed.  Harry  H.  Clark  (1944),  which  contains  also  a  good  critical  introduc- 
tion. The  first  collected  edition  was  The  Writings  of  Thomas  Paine,  ed.  Mon- 
cure  1).  Conway  (1894-96).  Of  the  other  collected  editions  the  most  recent  and 
most  complete  is  The  Complete  Writings  of  Thomas  Paine,  ed.  Philip  S.  Foner 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1017 

(1945).  Useful  volumes  of  selections  are  Thomas  Paine:  Representative 
Selections;  Selections  from  the  Writings  of  Thomas  Paine,  ed.  Carl  Van  Doren 
(1922);  Selections  from  the  Works  of  Thomas  Paine,  ed.  Arthur  W.  Peach 
(1928).  Moncure  D.  Conway,  The  Life  of  Thomas  Paine  ...  (1892)  is  still 
standard.  Among  the  recent  lives  are  Frank  Smith,  Thomas  Paine,  Liberator 
(1938),  and  William  E.  Woodward,  Tom  Paine:  America's  Godfather,  1737- 
1809  (1945).  Both  are  very  favorable  to  Paine;  for  an  early  hostile  "life,"  see 
James  Cheetham,  The  Life  of  Thomas  Paine ...  (1809).  There  are  short 
sketches  in  DAB  and  DNB. 

The  best  discussions  of  Paine's  literary  method  are  Harry  H.  Clark,  "Thomas 
Paine's  Theories  of  Rhetoric,"  in  Wisconsin  Acad,  of  Sci.,  Arts  and  Letters 
Trails.,  Vol.  28  (Madison,  1933),  pp.  307-339,  and  the  relevant  sections  of  the 
same  author's  Intro,  in  Thomas  Paine:  Representative  Selections.  For  other 
phases  of  Paine's  work,  see  C.  E.  Merriam,  Jr.,  "Thomas  Paine's  Political 
Theories,"  in  Pol.  Sci.  Quart.,  Vol.  14  (Sept.,  1899),  pp.  389-403;  Joseph  Dorf- 
man,  "The  Economic  Philosophy  of  Thomas  Paine,"  in  same,  Vol.  53  (Sept., 
1938),  pp.  372-386;  Howard  Penniman,  "Thomas  Paine,  Democrat,"  in  Amer. 
Pol.  Sci.  Rev.,  Vol.  37  (April,  1943),  pp.  244-262;  Harry  H.  Clark,  "An 
Historical  Interpretation  of  Thomas  Paine's  Religion,"  in  Univ.  of  Calif. 
Chron.,  Vol.  35  (Jan.,  1933),  pp.  56-87,  "Toward  a  Reinterpretation  of  Thomas 
Paine,"  in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  5  (May,  1933*),  pp.  133-145,  and  "Thomas  Paine's 
Relation  to  Voltaire  and  Rousseau,"  in  Revue  Anglo- Amer icaine ,  Vol.  9  (April, 
June,  1932),  pp.  305-318,  393-405;  and  Perry  Miller,  "Thomas  Paine, 
Rationalist,"  in  Nation,  Vol.  162  (Feb.  23,  1946),  pp.  228-232. 


CHAPTER     IO 

THE  EXPANDING  LITERARY  HORIZON 

Tyler,  Literary  History  of  the  American  Revolution  (p.  991  above),  Chap.  1, 
has  useful  comment  on  the  literary  effect  of  the  Revolution. 

Bibliographies  for  Francis  Hopkinson  are  in  LHUS,  DAB,  and  George  E. 
Hastings,  The  Life  and  Works  of  Francis  Hopkinson  (Chicago,  1926),  the 
best  biography.  There  is  a  reprint  of  The  Battle  of  the  Kegs  (Philadelphia, 
1866),  and  it  is  in  various  anthologies.  A  Pretty  Story  was  reprinted  in  The 
Old  Farm  and  the  New  Farm:  A  Political  Allegory,  ed.  Benson  J.  Lossing 
(1857).  Other  writings  are  in  The  Miscellaneous  Essays  and  Occasional 
Writings  of  Francis  Hopkinson,  Esq.  (Philadelphia,  1792);  Albert  F.  Gegen- 
heimer,  "An  Unpublished  Letter  of  Francis  Hopkinson  . . .,"  in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol. 
14  (Nov.  1942),  pp.  308-310;  and  George  E.  Hastings,  "Two  Uncollected 
Essays  by  Francis  Hopkinson,"  in  General  Mag.  and  Hist.  Chron.,  Vol.  41 
(July,  1939),  pp.  416-422.  For  biography  see,  in  addition  to  Hastings,  DAB, 
and  Charles  R.  Hildeburn,  "Francis  Hopkinson,"  in  Pa.  Mag.  of  Hist,  and 
Biog.,  Vol.  2  (Nov.  1878),  pp.  314-324.  For  his  musical  activities  see  Oscar  G. 
T.  Sonneck,  Francis  Hopkinson:  The  First  American  Poet-Composer . . . 
(Washington,  1905),  and  Harold  V.  Milligan,  The  First  American  Composer 
(Boston,  191 8),  which  contains  some  of  his  compositions.  Interesting  also  are 


ioi8         THE  COLONIAL  AND  REVOLUTIONARY  PERIOD 

George  E.  Hastings,  "Francis  Hopkinson  and  the  American  Flag,"  in 
Americana,  Vol.  33  (July,  1939),  pp.  293-309;  Dixon  Wecter,  "Francis  Hopkin- 
son and  Benjamin  Franklin,"  in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  12  (May,  1940),  pp.  200-217; 
and  Annie  R.  Marble's  essay  in  her  Heralds  of  American  Literature  (Chicago, 
1907),  Chap.  2. 

For  bibliography  of  John  Trumbull,  see  DAB,  LHUS,  Leon  Howard,  The 
Connecticut  Wits  (Chicago,  1943),  pp.  413-415,  and  Alexander  Cowie,  John 
Trumbull:  Connecticut  Wit  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1936),  pp.  215-223.  The  Poeti- 
cal Works  of  John  Trumbull ...( Hartford,  1820),  was  edited  by  Trumbull 
himself  and  contains  a  biographical  sketch  apparently  by  him.  The  1820  edition 
was  the  basis  for  The  Poetical  Works  of  John  Trumbull . . .,  ed.  Arthur  H. 
Nason,  in  The  Colonnade,  published  by  the  Andiron  Club  of  N.  Y.,  Vol.  14, 
Part  2  (1922).  Cowie,  above,  is  the  best  biography.  See  also  DAB  and  Howard, 
above,  pp.  37-78.  Useful  also  are  "John  Trumbull:  Satirist  and  Scholar"  in 
Marble,  Heralds,  pp.  107-145;  James  H.  Trumbull,  The  Origin  of  MTingal 
(Morrisania,  N.  Y.,  1868);  Alexander  Cowie,  "John  Trumbull  as  Revolutionist," 
in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  3  (Nov.  193 1 ),  pp.  287-295;  and  Lennox  Grey,  "John  Adams 
and  John  Trumbull  in  the  'Boston  Cycle,'  "  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  4 
(July,  193 1 ),  pp.  509-514.  The  Intro,  in  The  Connecticut  Wits,  ed.  Vernon 
L.  Parrington  (1926),  is  valuable.  On  Trumbull's  critical  views,  see  Alexander 
Cowie,  "John  Trumbull  as  a  Critic  of  Poetry,"  in  New  England  Quart.,  Vol. 
11  (Dec.  1938),  pp.  773-793,  and  "John  Trumbull  Glances  at  Fiction,"  in  Amer. 
Lit.,  Vol.  12  (March,  1940),  pp.  69-73. 

For  Timothy  D wight,  see  p.  102 1  below. 

The  best  bibliographies  for  the  early  American  drama  are  in  Arthur  H. 
Quinn,  A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Beginning  to  the  Civil 
War  (rev.  edition,  1943),  pp.  403-408,  425-497,  and  Oscar  Wegelin,  Early 
American  Plays,  1714-1830  ..  .  (rev.  edition,  1905).  Pages  1-112  in  Quinn  give 
the  best  account  of  the  early  drama  and  theater;  useful  also  are  William  Dun- 
lap,  A  History  of  the  American  Theatre  (1832);  George  O.  Seilhamer, 
History  of  the  American  Theatre ...  (Philadelphia,  1888-91);  and  Paul  L. 
Ford,  "The  Beginnings  of  American  Dramatic  Literature,"  in  New  England 
Mag.,  new  series,  Vol.  9  (Feb.,  1894),  pp.  673-687. 

For  Provost  William  Smith,  see  p.  1007  above. 

Thomas  Godfrey  is  the  subject  of  bibliographies  in  LHUS,  DAB,  and 
Quinn,  above,  p.  404.  The  Prince  of  Parthia  is  in  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  Representa- 
tive American  Plays  (191 7);  Montrose  J.  Moses,  Representative  Plays  by 
American  Dramatists,  1765-1819  (1918);  and  has  been  separately  reprinted,  ed. 
Archibald  Henderson  (Boston,  191 7).  For  biography  of  Godfrey,  see  Quinn, 
History  and  DAB.  See  also  Albert  F.  Gegenheimer,  Thomas  Godfrey:  Protege 
of  William  Smith  (Philadelphia,  1943). 

For  Robert  Rogers  see  DAB.  Ponteach  is  reprinted  in  Moses,  Representative 
Plays,  and,  separately,  ed.  Allan  Nevins  (Chicago,  191 4). 

For  Mercy  Otis  Warren  see  DAB;  Quinn,  History,  pp.  33-46;  and  Alice 
Brown,  Mercy  Warren   (1896).  The  Group  is  in  Moses. 

For  John  (or  Joseph)  Leacock,  see  Moses,  Representative  Plays,  pp.  16, 
279-282,  and  for  a  reprint  of  The  Fall  of  British  Tyranny,  pp.  283-350. 

For  Hugh  H.  Brackenridge,  see  p.  102 1  below. 


PART  I:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1019 

For  Robert  Munford,  see  DAB;  Quinn,  History,  pp.  54-57;  and  Intro,  in 
Robert  Munford,  The  Candidates,  or,  the  Humours  of  a  Virginia  Election  .  . ., 
ed.  Jay  B.  Hubbell  and  Douglass  Adair  (Williamsburg,  Va.,  1948).  The  Patriots 
is  reprinted,  with  a  note  by  Courtlandt  Canby,  in  Wm.  and  Mary  Quart.,  3rd 
series,  Vol.  6  (July,  1949),  pp.  437"5°3- 

For  the  other  plays  and  dramatists  mentioned  in  the  text,  see  Quinn,  History. 

Bibliographies  for  Philip  Freneau  are  in  DAB;  LHUS;  Lewis  Leary,  That 
Rascal  Freneau . . .  (New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  1941),  pp.  418-480;  and  Victor  H. 
Paltsits,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Separate  and  Collected  Works  of  Philip  Freneau 
(1903).  For  editions  of  his  work  see  The  Poems  of  Philip  Freneau . . .,  ed.  Fred 
L.  Pattee  (Princeton,  1902-7);  The  Last  Poe?ns  of  Philip  Freneau,  ed.  Lewis 
Leary  (New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  1945);  the  selection,  Poems  of  Freneau,  ed. 
Harry  H.  Clark  (1929);  Poems  Relating  to  the  American  Revolution,  by  Philip 
Freneau,  ed.  Evert  A.  Duyckinck  (1865);  Philip  Freneau,  Letters  on  Various 
Interesting  and  Important  Subjects,  ed.  Harry  H.  Clark  (1943);  and  Unpub- 
lished Freneauana,  ed.  Charles  F.  Heartman  (1918).  The  best  life  is  Lewis 
Leary,  That  Rascal  Freneau.  Useful  also  are  the  Intro,  in  Pattee's  edition,  DAB, 
and  Mary  S.  Austin,  Philip  Freneau . . .  (1901).  See  also,  among  the  many 
special  studies,  Samuel  E.  Forman,  "The  Political  Activities  of  Philip  Freneau," 
in  Johns  Hopkins  Univ.  Stud,  in  Hist,  and  Pol.  Sci.,  Vol.  20,  nos.  9  and  10 
(Baltimore,  1902);  and  Paul  E.  More,  "Philip  Freneau,"  in  Shelburne  Essays, 
5th  series  (1908);  Philip  Marsh,  "Philip  Freneau  and  the  Theatre,"  in  N.  J.  Hist. 
Soc.  Proc,  Vol.  66  (April,  1948),  pp.  96-105;  and  Nelson  F.  Adkins,  Philip 
Freneau  and  the  Cosmic  Enigma:  The  Religious  and  Philosophical  Speculations 
of  an  American  Poet  (1949). 

Joseph  Stansbury  is  the  subject  of  a  bibliography  and  biographical  sketch 
in  DAB.  See  also  Sabine,  Biographical  Sketches  (p.  1016  above).  For  Jonathan 
Odell,  see  the  same  authorities.  See  also  The  Loyal  Verses  of  Joseph  Stansbury 
and  Doctor  Jonathan  Odell...,  ed.  Winthrop  Sargent  (Albany,  i860),  and 
The  Loyalist  Poetry  of  the  Revolution  . . .,  same  editor  (Philadelphia,  1857). 


PART  II 

The  Establishment  of  National  Literature 

CHAPTER    I  I 

POLITICS  AND  POETRY 

The  best  edition  of  Washington  is  The  Writings  of  George  Washington  from 
the  Original  Manuscript  Sources,  1745-17 99,  ed.  J.  C.  Fitzpatrick,  39  Vols. 
(Washington,  1940-44).  Extensive  bibliographies  of  Washington,  Madison, 
Hamilton  or  Jefferson  would  be  out  of  place  here.  Among  modern  biographies 
John  C.  Fitzpatrick,  George  Washington  Himself  (Indianapolis,  1933)  is  a 
good  condensed  life  but  the  standard  is  the  forthcoming  biography  by  Douglas 
Freeman  in  6  Vols.  (2  Vols.  1948).  For  Madison's  works  see  The  Writings 
of  James  Madison,  ed.  Gaillard  Hunt  (1900),  and  The  Papers  of  ] antes  Madison 
Purchased  by  Order  of  Congress:  Being  his  Correspondence  and  Reports  of 
Debates  During  the  Congress  of  the  Confederation  and  His  Reports  of  Debates 
in  the  Federal  Convention,  3  Vols.  (1841).  A  satisfactory  biography  is  Gaillard 
Hunt,  The  Life  of  James  Madison  (1902).  The  definitive  biography  will  be 
Irving  Brant,  ]ames  Madison,  of  which  three  volumes  have  appeared,  The 
Virginia  Revolutionist,  17s 1-1780,  The  Nationalist,  1780-1787  and  The  Father 
of  the  Constitution,  1787-1800  (Chicago,  1950).  The  basic  text  of  The 
Federalist  is  The  Federalist:  or  the  New  Constitution,  Written  in  the  Year 
1788,  by  Mr.  Hamilton,  Mr.  Madison,  and  Mr.  Jay,  A  New  Edition,  The 
Numbers  Written  by  Mr.  Madison,  Corrected  by  Himself  (Washington, 
181 8).  This  edition  is  the  foundation  of  later  ones.  Of  modern  editions,  that 
by  Paul  L.  Ford  (1898)  will  be  found  useful,  although  his  assignment  of  the 
individual  numbers  is  not  always  correct.  More  accurate  in  this  respect  is  the 
edition  (1937)  with  Intro,  by  Edward  G.  Bourne.  For  the  disputed  authorship 
of  The  Federalist  Papers,  see  Edward  Gaylord  Bourne,  Essays  in  Historical 
Criticism  (New  York  and  London,  1901),  and  Douglass  Adair,  "The  Author- 
ship of  the  Disputed  Federalist  Papers,"  Wm.  and  Mary  Quart.,  Vol.  I  (April, 
1944),  PP-  97-122,  (July,  1944),  pp.  235-264.  The  best  edition  of  Hamilton's 
Works  is  that  edited  by  H.  C.  Lodge,  10  Vols.  (1885)  with  The  Federalist 
added  in  2  Vols.  (1904).  For  Thomas  Jefferson  see  Writings,  Memorial 
Edition,  ed.  A.  A.  Lipscomb,  20  Vols.  (Washington,  1904),  or  Writings,  ed. 
Paul  L.  Ford,  10  Vols.  (1892-99).  An  edition  of  52  Vols.,  The  Papers  of  Thomas 
Jefferson,  is  being  prepared  under  the  editorship  of  Julian  P.  Boyd.  Vols.  1  and 
2  (Princeton,  1950)  appeared  and  three  or  four  Vols,  are  scheduled  to  appear 
annually.  Among  many  lives  of  Jefferson,  the  one  helpful  for  our  purpose  is 
Karl  Lehman,  Thomas  Jefferson:  American  Humanist  (1947). 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  102 1 

The  Letters  of  Mrs.  Adams,  The  Wife  of  John  Adams:  With  an  Introductory 
Memoir,  by  Her  Grandson,  Charles  Francis  Adams  (Boston,  1840),  contains 
some  of  the  best  of  Abigail  Adams'  correspondence,  altered  unfortunately  at 
times  by  the  editor.  Additional  collections  of  her  letters  are  contained  in  the 
American  Antiquarian  Society  in  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  One  hundred  and 
forty-two  of  these  were  published  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Society,  ed. 
Stewart  Mitchell,  Vol.  55  (Worcester,  1945),  pp.  95-232,  299-444.  These 
were  reprinted  with  revised  Intro,  as  New  Letters  of  Abigail  Adams,  1788- 
1801  (Boston,  1947).  Some  Letters  of  Abigail  Adams  appeared  in  the  Lib.  of 
Cong.  Quart.,  Vol.  4  (Aug.,  1947),  pp.  3-6. 

For  the  "Connecticut  Wits"  see  Moses  Coit  Tyler,  Three  Men  of  Letters 
(1895),  the  pioneer  work  on  the  subject  and  still  valuable.  Among  modern 
treatments  the  best  is  Leon  Howard,  The  Connecticut  Wits  (Chicago,  1943), 
containing  valuable  bibliographies  of  Trumbull,  Dwight,  Barlow,  and 
Humphreys.  The  best  modern  biography  of  Dwight  is  Charles  E.  Cunning- 
ham, Timothy  Dwight,  1752-1817:  A  Biography  (1942).  For  Barlow,  see 
Howard  above  and  Charles  B.  Todd,  Life  and  Letters  of  Joel  Barlow  (1886), 
and  DAB.  For  Humphreys,  see  F.  L.  Humphreys,  The  Life  and  Times  of 
David  Humphreys,  2  Vols.  (191 7). 


CHAPTER     12 

EARLY  FICTION  AND  DRAMA 

For  the  fiction  treated  in  this  Chapter  see  extensive  bibliographies  in  CHAL 
and  LHUS.  Van  Doren  and  Quinn  contain  selective  bibliographies  in  The 
American  Novel  and  American  Fiction.  A  useful  treatment  is  Lillie  D.  Loshe, 
The  Early  American  Novel  (1907;  1930).  For  discussions  concerning  the  first 
American  novel,  see  Milton  Ellis,  "The  Author  of  the  First  American  Novel," 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  4  (Jan.,  1933),  pp.  359-368.  Later  information  is  given  in  The 
Power  of  Sympathy:  Reproduced  from  the  First  Edition,  ed.  Milton  Ellis,  2 
Vols.  (1937),  and  Emily  Pendleton  and  Milton  Ellis,  Philenia:  The  Life  and 
Works  of  Sarah  Wentworth  Morton  (Orono,  Me.,  1931 ).  A  differing  view 
as  to  priority  is  expressed  by  Robert  H.  Elias,  "The  First  American  Novel," 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  12  (Jan.,  1941),  pp.  419-434.  For  Brackenridge,  the  best 
biography  is  Claude  M.  Newlin,  The  Life  and  Writings  of  Hugh  Henry 
Brackenridge  (Princeton,  1932),  good  bib.  Modern  Chivalry,  ed.  Claude  M. 
Newlin  (1937)  is  the  most  convenient  edition.  For  Francis  Hopkinson  the 
best  biography  is  George  F.  Hastings,  The  Life  and  Works  of  Francis  Hopkin- 
son (Chicago,  1926).  For  Gilbert  Imlay  the  most  useful  articles  are  R.  L. 
Rusk,  "Adventures  of  Gilbert  Imlay,"  Indiana  Univ.  Stud.,  Vol.  10  (March, 
1923),  pp.  3-26,  and  Oliver  F.  Emerson,  "Notes  on  Gilbert  Imlay:  Early 
American  Writer,"  PMLA,  Vol.  39  (June,  1924),  pp.  406-439.  An  elaborate 
bibliography  of  Mrs.  Rowson  is  that  by  R.  W.  G.  Vail,  Susanna  Haswell 
Rowson:  The  Author  of  Charlotte  Temple:  A  Bibliographical  Study 
(Worcester,  1933).  F.  W.  Halsey  in  his  introduction  to  a  reprint  of  Charlotte 
Temple  (1905)  gives  some  interesting  information. 
The  latest  collected  edition  of  Brown  was  published  in  Philadelphia  in  1887. 


io22      THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

Wieland,  Ormond,  and  Edgar  Himtly  have  been  recently  reprinted.  The  only 
contemporary  biography  is  H.  R.  Warfel,  Charles  Brockden  Brown:  American 
Gothic  Novelist  (1949).  Dr.  Warfel  has  written  an  appreciative  treatment  of 
Brown,  but  has  had  to  depend  upon  William  Dunlap,  The  Life  of  Charles 
Brockden  Brown:  Together  with  Selections  from  the  Rarest  of  His  Printed 
Works,  2  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  181 5),  combined  with  Dunlap's  Memoirs  of 
Charles  Brockden  Brown:  The  American  Novelist  (London,  1822).  See  also 
W.  H.  Prescott,  "Charles  Brockden  Brown,"  in  Prescott,  Biographical  and 
Critical  Miscellanies  (1845,  1875).  An  anonymous  article  in  The  American 
Review,  Vol.  1  (March,  1848),  pp.  260-274,  1S  unusually  keen  in  its  criticism. 

The  standard  critical  work  on  the  American  Drama  up  to  i860  is  A.  H. 
Quinn,  A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Beginning  to  the  Civil  War 
(1923,  rev.  edition,  1943).  This  contains  full  bibliographies  of  dramatic 
criticism  and  stage  history  and  an  alphabetical  finding-list  of  plays.  See  also 
bibliography  arranged  by  authors  by  A.  H.  Quinn  and  A.  C.  Baugh,  CHAL, 
Vol.  1,  in  connection  with  the  former's  chapter  on  the  early  drama,  Book 
Two,  Chap.  Two.  F.  P.  Hill,  American  Plays,  Printed  1714-1830  (Stanford, 
Calif.,  1934),  is  useful.  It  contains  references  to  the  chief  collections  of  printed 
American  plays  during  that  period.  As  source  material  James  Rees,  The 
Dramatic  Authors  of  America  (Philadelphia,  1845)  is  useful,  also  Laurence 
Hutton,  Curiosities  of  the  American  Stage  ( 1 89 1 ) . 

Original  editions  of  the  early  dramas  are  rare  and  the  plays  must  usually 
be  sought  in  anthologies.  The  most  useful  of  these  are  A.  H.  Quinn,  Rep- 
resentative American  Plays  (1917;  rev.  edition,  1938);  Montrose  J.  Moses, 
Representative  Plays  by  American  Dramatists,  Vols.  1,  2,  and  3  (1918;  1925; 
1920);  A.  G.  Halline,  American  Plays  (1935).  Many  of  the  unprinted  plays 
of  this  period  will  be  found  in  America's  Lost  Plays,  ed.  Barrett  H.  Clark 
(Princeton,  1940).  Lists  of  the  plays  to  be  found  in  these  anthologies  are 
given  in  the  History  of  the  American  Drama  (see  above). 

Tyler's  The  Contrast  is  rare.  A  sumptuous  limited  edition,  ed.  James  B. 
Wilbur  (Boston,  1920),  contains  an  introduction  and  bibliography  by  Helen 
T.  Brown,  a  great-grandaughter  of  Royall  Tyler.  A  life  of  Tyler  has  been 
promised  for  some  years,  but  the  best  biographical  information  is  still  to  be 
found  in  Frederic  Tupper,  "Royall  Tyler:  Man  of  Law  and  Man  of  Letters," 
Proc.  Vermont  Hist.  Soc.  (1928),  pp.  65-101.  For  other  unproduced  plays  of 
Tyler  see  America's  Lost  Plays,  Vol.  15.  Dunlap's  Andre  has  been  frequently 
reprinted  in  anthologies  and  The  Father  in  the  Dunlap  Society,  Series  One, 
Vol.  2  (1887).  See  also  America's  Lost  Plays,  Vol.  2.  The  primary  authorities 
for  Dunlap's  life  are  (1)  his  History  of  the  American  Theatre  (1832)  or  in 
better  form  (2  Vols.  London,  1833),  (2)  his  History  of  the  Rise  and  Progress 
of  the  Arts  of  Design  in  the  United  States,  2  Vols.  (1834),  (3)  Memoirs  of 
William  Dunlap:  or  Daily  Occurrences,  ed.  C.  D.  Barck  (1930).  Based  upon 
these  is  the  standard  life  of  Dunlap  by  O.  S.  Coad,  William  Dunlap:  A  Study 
of  His  Life  and  Works  (191 7)  containing  a  complete  list  of  Dunlap's  works. 

Barker's  plays  are  rare.  Superstition  was  reprinted  in  Representative 
American  Plays;  The  Indian  Princess  in  Representative  Plays  by  American 
Dramatists,  Vol.  1.  Barker's  own  account  of  his  plays  is  to  be  found  in  Dunlap's 
History  of  the  American  Theatre,  Vol.  2,  pp.  308-316.  The  standard  biography 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1023 

is  Paul  H.  Musser,  ]ames  Nelson  Barker,  with  a  reprint  of  Tears  and  Smiles 
and  the  best  bibliography  (Philadelphia,  1929).  Noah's  account  of  his  own 
plays  is  given  in  Dunlap,  Vol.  2,  pp.  316-324.  For  biography  see  Isaac  Goldberg, 
Major  Noah  (1937).  The  best  account  of  Woodworth's  plays  is  to  be  found 
in  O.  S.  Coad,  "The  Plays  of  Samuel  Woodworth,"  Sewanee  Review,  Vol.  27 
(1919),  pp.  163-175. 

Payne's  important  plays  were  frequently  reprinted  and  copies  of  Charles 
II,  Brutus,  and  Therese  can  still  be  found.  For  Charles  11,  see  Representative 
American  Plays;  for  Brutus,  Representative  Plays  by  American  Dramatists, 
Vol.  2.  For  previously  unpublished  plays  of  Payne,  see  America's  Lost  Plays, 
Vols.  6  and  7.  For  bibliography  see  CHAL,  Vol.  1,  pp.  502-504.  The  standard 
life  is  still  John  Howard  Payne,  by  Gabriel  Harrison  (Philadelphia,  rev.  edition, 
1885).  See  also  W.  T.  Hanson,  Jr.,  The  Early  Life  of  John  Howard  Payne 
(Boston,  191 3). 

For  Harby,  see  L.  C.  Moise,  The  Biography  of  Isaac  Harby  (University  of 
So.  Carolina,  193 1 )  which  is  the  best  account  of  his  life.  For  White,  see  "The 
Journal  of  John  Blake  White,"  South  Carolina  Hist,  and  Gen.  Mag.,  Vol.  42 
(April-July,  1941),  pp.  55-71. 

CHAPTER    13 

NATIONAL  AND  UNIVERSAL  THEMES 

The  best  bibliography  of  the  writings  of  Irving  is  Stanley  T.  Williams  and 
M.  E.  Edge,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  Washington  Irving  (1936), 
published  in  connection  with  Williams'  Biography.  A  collectors'  bibliography 
is  W.  R.  Langfeld  and  P.  C.  Blackburn,  Washington  Irving:  A  Bibliography 
(1933).  The  standard  collected  edition  of  Irving  is  The  Works  of  Washington 
Irving,  Author's  Uniform  Revised  Edition,  21  Vols.  (1860-61).  This  edition 
has  been  frequently  reprinted.  Other  useful  editions  are  The  Sunnyside  (1868- 
69),  29  Vols.,  of  which  the  last  four  are  The  Life  and  Letters,  see  below.  A 
more  accessible  edition  is  The  New  Knickerbocker  (1896).  For  other  editions 
see  bibliography  by  S.  T.  Williams.  The  Letters  of  Johnathan  Oldstyle  with 
Intro,  by  S.  T.  Williams  was  published  by  the  Facsimile  Text  Soc.  (1941). 

Many  of  the  Journals  and  Letters  of  Washington  Irving  have  been  edited. 
Among  the  most  important  are  The  Journals  of  Washington  Irving  from  July, 
1815  to  July,  1842,  ed.  W.  P.  Trent  and  G.  S.  Hellman,  3  Vols.  (Boston,  1919); 
Washington  Irving  on  the  Prairie,  ed.  S.  T.  Williams  and  Barbara  D.  Simison 
(1937);  The  Western  Journals  of  Washington  Irving,  ed.  J.  F.  McDermott 
(Norman,  Okla.,  1944).  Additional  items  concerning  the  Journals  of  Wash- 
ington Irving  are  found  in  the  bibliographies  of  CHAL,  LHUS,  and  American 
Fiction.  See  also  The  Letters  of  Irving  to  Henry  Brevoort,  ed.  George  S. 
Hellman,  2  Vols.  (1915);  1  Vol.  (1918). 

The  definitive  biography  is  Stanley  T.  Williams,  The  Life  of  Washington 
Irving,  2  Vols.  (New  York  and  London,  1935).  This  contains  "Supplementary 
Studies  in  the  Writings  of  Washington  Irving,"  of  value  in  the  interpretation 
of  the  biography.  All  writers  on  Irving  depend  on  Pierre  M.  Irving,  Life  and 
Letters  of    Washington  Irving,  4   Vols.    (1862-64);    3    Vols.    (1883).    Other 


io24     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

biographies  of  importance  are  C.  D.  Warner,  Life  of  Washington  Irving, 
A  M  of  L  (Boston,  1881);  G.  S.  Hellman,  Washington  Irving,  Esquire: 
Ambassador  at  large  from  the  New  World  to  the  Old  (1925). 

Among  many  critical  articles  some  written  by  his  contemporaries  are  W. 
C.  Bryant,  A  Discourse  on  the  Life,  Character  and  Genius  of  Washington 
Irving  (i860);  W.  M.  Thackeray,  "Nil  Nisi  Bonum"  in  Roundabout  Papers 
(1863).  Among  later  criticisms  the  most  significant  is  that  by  W.  D.  Howells 
in  My  Literary  Passions  (1895).  Among  many  articles  on  Rip  Van  Winkle, 
one  of  the  best  is  J.  B.  Thompson,  "The  Genesis  of  the  Rip  Van  Winkle 
Legend,"  Harpers  Magazine  (Sept.,  1883),  pp.  617-622.  For  Irving's  relations 
abroad  see  John  deL.  Ferguson,  American  Literature  i?i  Spain  (191 6),  also  T. 
E.  M.  Boll,  "Charles  Dickens  and  Washington  Irving,"  Modern  Lang.  Quart., 
Vol.  5  (Dec,  1944),  pp.  454-467- 

For  Paulding  the  most  complete  bibliography  is  A  Bibliography  of  the 
Separate  Publications  of  James  Kirke  Paulding:  Poet,  Novelist,  Humorist, 
Statesman,  1779-1860,  ed.  Oscar  Wegelin,  reprinted  from  Papers  Bib.  Soc.  of 
Amer.,  Vol.  12  (jan.-April,  191 8).  Paulding's  collected  works  were  published 
in  15  Vols.  (1834-39).  For  primary  sources  see  W.  I.  Paulding,  The  Literary 
Life  of  James  K.  Paulding  (1867).  A  later  biography  of  value  is  Amos  L. 
Herold,  James  K.  Paulding:  Versatile  American  (1926).  This  contains  a 
selective  bibliography,  pp.  148-160.  Information  concerning  the  biography 
of  John  Neal  must  still  depend  on  John  Neal:  Wandering  Recollections  of  a 
Somewhat  Busy  Life:  An  Autobiography  (Boston,  1869).  For  Timothy  Flint, 
see  his  Recollections  of  the  Last  Ten  Years  (Boston,  1826),  ed.  C.  H.  Grattan 
(1932).  An  earlier  biography  is  J.  E.  Kirkpatrick,  Timothy  Flint:  Pioneer, 
Missionary,  Author,  Editor  (Cleveland,  191 1 ). 

No  adequate  bibliography  of  Willis  has  been  published.  Brief  bibliographies 
are  given  in  CHAL  and  LHUS.  His  Collected  Prose  Works  were  published  in 
1846  and  with  the  addition  of  Ephemera  were  republished  in  Philadelphia  in 
1852.  The  Poetical  Works  of  Nathaniel  Parker  Willis  were  published  in  1868. 
The  standard  biography  is  H.  A.  Beers,  Nathaniel  Parker  Willis  (Boston, 
1885),  A  M  of  L,  with,  however,  inadequate  treatment  of  the  dramatic  poetry. 
For  this  see  Poe's  elaborate  criticism  of  Tortesa  the  Usurer  in  Burton's  Gentle- 
man's Magazine  (Aug.  1839),  more  conveniently  found  in  Complete  Poems 
and  Stories  of  Poe:  With  Selections  from  His  Critical  Writings,  ed.  A.  H. 
Quinn  and  E.  H.  O'Neill  (1946),  Vol.  2,  pp.  956-965.  See  also  A.  H.  Quinn, 
A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Beginning  to  the  Civil  War  (rev. 
edition,  1943),  pp.  255-259.  Modern  criticism  of  Willis,  outside  of  a  brief 
treatment  by  G.  E.  Whicher  in  CHAL,  Vol.  1,  pp.  242-243,  seems  unaware 
of  his  real  importance  as  a  writer  and  a  figure  in  our  historical  development. 


CHAPTER     14 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  HISTORY  AND  THE  FRONTIER 

The  most  useful  bibliography  of  Cooper  is  R.  E.  Spiller  and  P.  C.  Blackburn, 
A  Descriptive  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  James  Fenimore  Cooper  (1934). 
See  as  usual  Bibliographies  in  CHAL  and  LHUS,  and  more  selective  ones  in 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1025 

The  American  Novel  and  American  Fiction.  The  most  useful  collected  edition 
of  Cooper's  novels  is  the  Household  Edition  with  introductions  by  Susan 
Fenimore  Cooper,  32  Vols.  (Boston,  1876,  1881-84).  The  Works  of  James 
Fenimore  Cooper,  Mohawk  Edition,  33  Vols.  (1895-96,  1900)  is  among  the 
more  available  editions.  Works  of  Cooper  not  included  in  the  usual  collections 
of  novels  are  Notions  of  the  Americans  Picked  up  by  a  Travelling  Bachelor, 
2  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  1828);  The  American  Democrat  (Cooperstown,  N.  Y.,' 
1838),  reprinted  with  Intro,  by  H.  L.  Mencken  (1931 );  Sketches  of  Switzerland. 
By  an  American,  2  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  1836);  Gleanings  in  Europe,  France. 
By  an  American,  2  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  1837)  and  Gleanings  in  Europe, 
England.  By  an  American,  2  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  1837)  both  of  which  were 
reprinted  and  ed.  R.  E.  Spiller,  France  (1928);  England  (1930);  Gleanings  in 
Europe-Excursions  in  Italy,  2  Vols.  (London  and  Philadelphia,  1838);  The 
Lake  Gun,  ed.  R.  E.  Spiller  (1932);  A  Letter  to  His  Countrymen  (1834);'  New 
York:  Being  an  Introduction  to  an  Unpublished  Manuscript,  by  the  Author, 
Entitled  uThe  Towers  of  Manhattan;'  ed.  D.  R.  Fox  (1930).  Autobiography 
of  a  Pocket-Handkerchief,  published  in  Graham's  Magazine  (Jan.  through 
April,  1843),  was  edited  by  G.  F.  Horner  and  Raymond  Adams  (Chapel  Hill, 
N.  C.  1949).  For  letters,  see  Correspondence  of  James  Fenimore  Cooper,  edited 
by  his  grandson,  J.  F.  Cooper,  2  Vols.  (New  Haven,  1922). 

The  best  biography  of  Cooper  is  Thomas  R.  Lounsbury,  James  Fenimore 
Cooper  (Boston,  1883),  A  M  of  L.  Since  Cooper  left  instructions  not  to  have 
any  biography  published,  Lounsbury  went  to  contemporary  sources.  Cooper's 
writings  dealing  with  institutions  of  his  own  day  are  best  treated  by  R.  E. 
Spiller,  Fenimore  Cooper:  Critic  of  His  Times  (1931)-  Contemporary  criticism 
of  Cooper  is  to  be  found  in  Memorial  of  James  Fenimore  Cooper  (1852) 
including  "Public  Honours  to  the  Memory  of  Mr.  Cooper."  Addresses  were 
given  by  Irving,  Webster,  and,  most  important,  by  Bryant,  entitled  A  Dis- 
course on  the  Life  and  Genius  of  James  Fenimore  Cooper,  published  separately 
(1852).  Of  unusual  value  are  Marcel  Clavel,  Fenimore  Cooper:  Sa  Vie  et  Son 
Oeuvre:  Le  Jeunesse,  1789-1826  (Aix-en-Provence,  France,  1938),  and  Marcel 
Clavel,  Fenimore  Cooper  and  His  Critics:  American,  British,  and  French 
Criticisms  of  the  Novelist's  Early  Work  (Aix-en-Provence,  France,  1938). 
Later  biographies  of  Cooper  will  add  little  to  the  above.  James  Grossman! 
James  Fenimore  Cooper  (1949),  is  factually  competent,  but  not  critically 
impressive.  Among  important  articles  are  W.  C.  Brownell,  "Cooper"  in 
American  Prose  Masters  (1909);  Honore  de  Balzac,  "Fenimore  Cooper  et 
Walter  Scott"  in  La  Revue  Parisienne  (July  25,  1840);  P.  A.  Barba  "Cooper 
in  Germany,"  Indiana  Univ.  Stud.,  Vol.  21  (Bloomington,  1914),  also  in  Ger.- 
Amer.  Annals  (19 14). 

For  Hall  biographical  material  is  best  found  in  Davis  L.  James,  "Judge 
James  Hall:  A  Literary  Pioneer  in  the  Middle  West,"  Ohio  Arch,  and  Hist 
Soc.  Pub.,  Vol.  18  (1909),  pp.  468-483;  J.  T.  Flanagan,  James  Hall:  Literary 
Pioneer  of  the  Ohio  Valley  (Minneapolis,  1941).  For  Longstreet  see  J.  D. 
Wade,  Augustus  Baldwin  Longstreet:  A  Study  in  the  Development  of  Culture 
in  the  South  (1924).  For  Miss  Sedgwick,  Mary  E.  Dewey,  Life  and  Letters 
of  Catharine  M.  Sedgwick  (1 871),  and  a  later  treatment,  Sister  Mary  Welsh 
Catharine  Maria  Sedgwick:  Her  Position  in  the  Literature  and  Thought  of  her 


ioz6     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

Time  up  to  i860  (Washington,  1937),  will  be  sufficient.  Some  interesting 
memorabilia  of  Miss  Sedgwick  are  to  be  found  in  Lenox  and  Stockbridge.  For 
Mrs.  Child  the  best  information  is  contained  in  Letters  of  Lydia  Maria  Child 
with  a  biographical  Intro,  by  J.  G.  Whittier,  good  bib.  (Boston,  1883).  For 
Bird  see  bibliography  of  Chapter  26,  "Revolt  and  Celebration  in  the  Drama." 

No  adequate  special  bibliography  of  Kennedy  has  appeared.  Swallow  Barn, 
ed.  Jay  B.  Hubbell  (1929),  and  Horse-Shoe  Robinson,  ed.  E.  E.  Leisy  (1937), 
are  among  the  modern  reprints.  Two  biographies,  H.  T.  Tuckerman,  The 
Life  of  John  Pendleton  Kennedy  (1871 ),  and  E.  M.  Gwathmey,  John  Pendleton 
Kennedy  (1931),  give  the  most  valuable  information  at  present.  Two  good 
bibliographies  of  Simms  are  Oscar  Wegelin,  A  List  of  the  Separate  Writings 
of  William  Gilmore  Simms  of  South  Carolina,  1806-1870  (1906),  and  a  revision 
of  this,  Bibliography  of  William  Gilmore  Simms  in  American  Book  Collector 
(1933).  In  addition  Catalogue  of  the  Salley  Collection  of  the  Works  of  William 
Gilmore  Simms,  Intro.  A.  S.  Salley  (Columbia,  S.  C,  1943),  is  of  use.  A  list  of 
Simms'  short  stories  with  periodical  publication  by  J.  Allen  Morris,  "The 
Stories  of  William  Gilmore  Simms"  in  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  14  (March,  1942), 
pp.  20-35,  contains  new  information.  The  standard  edition  of  Simms  is  the 
Caxton  Edition,  17  Vols.  (Chicago,  1890).  The  Yemassee  was  edited  by  Alex- 
ander Cowie  (1937).  The  standard  biography  is  still  W.  P.  Trent,  William 
Gilmore  Simms  (Boston,  1892),  A  M  of  L.  Among  critical  articles,  Hampton 
M.  Jarrell,  "Simms'  Visits  to  the  Southwest,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  5  (1933),  pp. 
29-36,  describes  Simms'  knowledge  of  the  background  of  his  border  romances. 
Of  general  interest  is  Willard  Jillson,  "The  Beauchamp-Sharp  Tragedy  in 
American  Literature,"  Register  of  the  Kentucky  State  Hist.  Soc,  Vol.  36 
(1938),  pp.  54-60. 

For  bibliography  of  Melville,  see  Michael  Sadleir,  "Herman  Melville:  Essay 
and  Bibliography"  in  Excursions  in  Victorian  Bibliography  (London,  1922). 
Bibliographies  in  Weaver  and  Mumford  (see  below)  are  useful  as  are  also 
CHAL  and  LHUS.  The  standard  edition  of  Melville  is  at  present  The  Works 
of  Herman  Melville,  16  Vols.  (London,  1922-24).  An  edition  now  in  progress 
edited  by  Howard  P.  Vincent  in  14  Vols.  (Chicago,  1947)  will  eventually  be- 
come the  standard  edition.  Melville's  separate  works  are  easily  available  in  re- 
prints. Among  the  most  useful  selections  are  Herman  Melville,  ed.  Willard 
Thorp  (1938);  Journal  Up  the  Straits,  October  11,  1856-May  5,  18 '57,  ed.  Ray- 
mond Weaver  (1935),  which  contains  a  good  biographical  introduction;  The 
Shorter  Novels  of  Herman  Melville,  ed.  Raymond  Weaver  (1928);  The  Apple- 
Tree  Table  and  other  Sketches,  ed.  Henry  Chapin  (Princeton,  1922).  Journal 
of  a  Visit  to  London  and  the  Continent  by  Herman  Melville,  1849-1850,  which 
had  been  used  by  Weaver  and  Mumford,  has  been  reprinted  complete  by 
Eleanor  Melville  Metcalf  (Cambridge,  1948).  The  best  biography  is  still 
Raymond  Weaver,  Herman  Melville:  Mariner  and  Mystic  (1921).  Lewis 
Mumford,  Herman  Melville  (1929)  is  also  of  interest.  Valuable  new  material 
was  given  by  Charles  R.  Anderson  in  Melville  in  the  South  Seas  (1939).  Among 
the  many  critical  articles  a  few  are  of  special  importance:  C.  R.  Anderson, 
"The  Genesis  of  Billy  Budd,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  12  (1940),  pp.  329-346;  Fitz- 
James  O'Brien,  "Our  Authors  and  Authorship,"  Putnam' 's  Magazine,  Vol.  9 
(April,  1857),  pp.  384-393   (Melville  and  Curtis);  H.  H.  Scudder,  "Melville's 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1027 

Benito  Cereno  and  Captain  Delano's  Voyages,"  PMLA,  Vol.  43  (June,  1928), 
pp.  502-532.  See  footnotes  for  other  items,  especially  J.  N.  Reynolds,  "Mocha- 
Dick  or  the  White  Whale  of  the  Pacific,"  Knickerbocker  Magazine  (May, 
1839)  with  later  treatments  bv  Hayford  and  Garnett.  William  H.  Gilman  in 
"Melville's  Liverpool  Trip,"  MLN,  Vol.  61  (1946),  pp.  543-547,  gives  new 
information  concerning  his  voyage  in  1839,  including  the  real  name  of  the 
ship  in  Red  burn  (see  text).  Herman  Melville  (1950)  by  Newton  Arvin,  while 
well  written,  includes  too  many  speculations  concerning  Melville's  symbolism 
and  its  relation  to  his  own  life.  Detailed  information  concerning  the  genesis 
of  Moby-Dick  is  found  in  H.  P.  Vincent,  The  Trying  Out  of  Moby  Dick 
(Boston,  1949). 

CHAPTER     I  5 

THE  FRONTIERS  OF  LIFE  AND  DEATH 

The  most  extensive  bibliography  of  Bryant  is  to  be  found  in  "Chronologies  of 
the  Life  and  Writings  of  William  Cullen  Bryant,"  ed.  H.  C.  Sturges,  in  the 
Roslyn  Edition  of  Bryant's  works  (1903).  It  was  also  published  separately  in 
1905.  Useful  bibliographies,  depending  on  the  above,  are  in  CHAL  and  LHUS. 
The  standard  edition  is  The  Life  and  Works  of  William  Cullen  Bryant  by 
Parke  Godwin,  6  Vols.  (1883-89).  Vols.  1  and  2  make  up  the  biography  of 
Bryant,  including  an  autobiographical  sketch,  Vols.  3  and  4  contain  the  poetry, 
Vols.  5  and  6  the  prose.  A  good  one-volume  edition  is  the  Roslyn  Edition 
(1903)  including  a  memoir  by  R.  H.  Stoddard  and  bibliography  (see  above). 
Separate  publications  of  Bryant  are  The  Iliad  of  Homer,  2  Vols.  (Boston, 
1870-73);  The  Odyssey  of  Homer,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1873);  The  Letters  of  a 
Traveller:  or  Notes  of  Things  Seen  in  Europe  and  America  (London  and 
New  York,  1850);  Letters  from  the  East  (1869);  Picturesque  America,  2  Vols. 
(1872-74);  A  Popular  History  of  the  United  States,  4  Vols.  (1876-81).  Among 
the  most  important  works  edited  by  Bryant  are  The  Family  Library  of  Poetry 
and  Song  (1870),  which  contains  a  valuable  introduction.  A  good  modern 
volume  is  William  Cullen  Bryant:  Representative  Selections,  ed.  Tremaine 
McDowell  (1935)  containing  introduction  and  bibliography.  The  best 
biography  in  addition  to  that  of  Godwin  is  John  Bigelow,  William  Cullen 
Bryant  (Boston,  1896),  A  M  of  L.  Other  biographies  by  Hill  and  Bradley  will 
add  little  to  these.  Among  many  critical  articles  during  Bryant's  lifetime,  the 
most  inclusive  is  The  Bryant  Festival  at  the  Century  (1865)  (see  text).  Note- 
worthy single  criticisms  include  a  review  of  Poems  of  William  Cullen  Bryant 
(1836)  in  Walsh's  American  Quarterly  Review,  Vol.  20  (December,  1836), 
pp.  504-520;  Poe's  review  of  Bryant's  Poems,  Southern  Literary  Messenger 
(1837),  most  conveniently  found  in  The  Complete  Poems  and  Stories  of  Poe, 
ed.  A.  H.  Quinn  and  E.  H.  O'Neill,  Vol.  2  (1946),  pp.  889-914.  Discriminating 
criticism  of  Bryant  is  to  be  found  in  E.  C.  Stedman's  Poets  of  A?nerica  and 
in  "Mr.  Bryant's  'Thirty  Poems'  "  and  "Mr.  Bryant's  'Homer,'  "  in  Genius  and 
Other  Essays  (1911).  See  also  W.  E.  Leonard  in  CHAL.  Among  contemporary 
criticisms  two  outstanding  are  Vernon  Parrington,  "William  Cullen  Bryant: 
Puritan  Liberal"  in  Main  Currents  in  American  Thought,  Vol.  2  (1927),  pp. 
238-246;  Tremaine   McDowell,   "Bryant's  Practice   in  Composition   and   Re- 


io28     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

vision,"  PMLA,  Vol.  52  (June,  1937),  pp.  494-502.  Treatment  of  Bryant  as 
the  editor  of  the  Post  is  best  found  in  Allan  Nevins,  The  Evening  Post:  A 
Century  of  Journalism  (1922). 

A  useful  bibliography  of  Halleck  is  contained  in  the  biography  by  Adkins 
(see  below).  The  standard  edition  of  Halleck's  poetry,  The  Poetical  Writings 
of  Fitz-Greene  Halleck:  With  Extracts  from  those  of  Joseph  Rodman  Drake 
was  edited  by  J.  G.  Wilson  (1869)  in  connection  with  his  Life  and  Letters 
of  Fitz-Greene  Halleck  (1869).  New  material  and  a  good  critical  approach 
are  found  in  N.  F.  Adkins,  Fitz-Greene  Halleck  (New  Haven,  1930).  A 
significant  tribute  by  his  contemporaries  is  found  in  A  Memorial  of  Fitz- 
Greene  Halleck,  a  description  of  the  dedication  of  the  monument  erected  to 
his  memory  at  Gilford,  Connecticut  (1877).  The  poem  by  Holmes  and  the 
address  by  Taylor  are  especially  noteworthy.  For  Drake  the  standard  biog- 
raphy and  text  are  F.  L.  Pleadwell,  The  Life  and  Works  of  Joseph  Rodman 
Drake  (1935)  including  the  original  Culprit  Fay  and  other  poems  and  some 
new  material.  The  relations  between  Halleck  and  Drake  are  discussed  in  J. 
G.  Wilson,  "The  Author  of  the  American  Flag,"  Century,  Vol.  8  (July,  1910), 
pp.  439-444- 

CHAPTER     16 

IDEALISTIC  REVOLT  AND  REFORM 

O.  B.  Frothingham,  Boston  Unitarianism  (1890)  and  Transcendentalism  in 
New  England  (1876)  are  still  basic  treatments  of  these  subjects.  A  valuable 
anthology  is  The  Poets  of  Transcendentalism,  ed.  G.  W.  Cooke  (Boston, 
1903),  who  also  edited  The  Dial:  Reprinted  in  Numbers  for  the  Rowfant 
Club  of  Cleveland,  190 1-2,  16  Vols.,  and  wrote  An  Historical  and  Biographical 
Introduction  to  Accompany  the  Dial,  2  Vols.  (Cleveland,  1902).  The  foreign 
attitude  is  found  in  Edward  Dowden,  "Transcendental  Movement,"  Stud,  in 
Lit.  (London,  1882).  Harold  C.  Goddard,  Studies  in  New  England  Tran- 
scendentalism (1908)  is  useful.  See  also  his  Chapter  in  CHAL,  Vol.  1.  A 
valuable  treatment  of  the  journals  devoted  to  the  movement  is  C.  F.  Gohdes, 
Periodicals  of  American  Transcendentalism  (Durham,  N.  C,  193 1).  Important 
for  the  mystic  side  is  Arthur  Christy,  The  Orient  in  American  Transcenden- 
talism (1932);  for  the  German  element,  Rene  Wellek,  "The  Minor  Tran- 
scendentalists  and  German  Philosophy,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  15,  pp. 
652-680;  and  for  the  influence  on  the  West,  see  Henry  A.  Pochmann,  New 
England  Transcendentalism  and  St.  Louis  Hegelianism  (Philadelphia,  [1948]). 
For  William  E.  Channing,  1st,  an  edition  of  his  Works  with  an  Intro,  by 
J.  W.  Chadwick,  6  Vols.  (Boston,  1904)  is  the  standard.  A  Memoir  of  William 
Ellery  Channing:  With  Extracts  from  his  Correspondence  and  Manuscripts  was 
ed.  VV.  H.  Channing,  3  Vols.  (Boston,  1848),  republished  as  The  Life  of 
William  Ellery  Channing,  D.D.  (1880),  and  a  third  revision  was  made  under 
the  title  of  Centenary  Memorial  Edition  (1899).  A  good  modern  biography 
is  J.  VV.  Chadwick,  William  Ellery  Channing  (Boston,  1903).  The  standard 
edition  of  Brownson  is  The  Works  of  Orestes  A.  Brownson,  20  Vols.  (Detroit, 
1 882- 1 908).  A  comprehensive  biography  is  Henry  F.  Brownson,  The  Life  of 
Orestes  A.  Brownson,  3  Vols.  (Detroit,  1898- 1900).  Two  good  contemporary 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1029 

biographies  are  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger,  Jr.,  Orestes  A.  Brownson,  with  a 
critical  bib.,  pp.  299-305  (Boston,  1939),  and  Theodore  Maynard,  Orestes 
Broivnson:  Yankee,  Radical,  Catholic,  with  selective  bib.  (1943).  The  standard 
life  of  Ripley  is  still  O.  B.  Frothingham,  George  Ripley  (Boston,  1882).  The 
Centenary  Edition  of  Parker's  Works,  published  as  fifteen  individual  Vols. 
(Boston,  1907-13),  is  the  standard.  Vol.  13  contains  his  autobiography  and  a 
bibliography  is  in  Vol.  15.  For  biography  see  O.  B.  Frothingham,  Theodore 
Parker:  A  Biography  (Boston,  1874).  For  modern  biographies  see  J.  W. 
Chadwick,  Theodore  Parker  (1900)  containing  a  good  bibliography  and  Henry 
S.  Commager,  Theodore  Parker  (Boston,  1936). 

An  extensive  bibliography  of  Thoreau  is  F.  H.  Allen,  A  Bibliography  of 
Henry  David  Thoreau  (Boston,  1908),  continued  by  William  White,  "A 
Henry  David  Thoreau  Bibliography,  1908- 193 7,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  16  (Boston, 
Jan.  1938-Dec.  1939),  pp.  90-92;  111-113;  131-132;  163-164;  181-182;  199-202, 
and  Walter  Harding,  "A  Bibliography  of  Thoreau  in  Poetry,  Fiction  and 
Drama,"  Bidl.  of  Bib.,  Vol.  8  (May- Aug.  1943),  pp.  15-18,  and  "Additions  to 
the  Thoreau  Bibliography,"  Thoreau  Soc.  Bull.,  No.  25  (Oct.,  1948),  p.  4. 
The  best  selective  bibliography  as  well  as  the  best  selected  collection  in  one 
volume  of  Thoreau's  writings  is  found  in  G.  F.  Whicher,  Walden  and 
Selected  Essays  (Chicago,  1947).  The  complete  or  Walden  Edition  of 
Thoreau's  Works  in  20  Vols.  (Boston,  1906)  is  the  standard.  The  Collected 
Poems  of  Henry  David  Thoreau,  ed.  Carl  Bode  (Chicago,  1943)  and  The 
Heart  of  Thoreau's  Journals,  ed.  Odell  Shepard  (Boston,  1927)  are  useful 
in  their  fields.  Biographers  of  Thoreau  have  been  handicapped  by  the  few 
concrete  facts  of  his  life.  F.  B.  Sanborn,  Henry  D.  Thoreau  (Boston,  1882), 
A  M  of  L,  revised  as  The  Life  of  Henry  David  Thoreau,  enlarged  with  un- 
published essays  (Boston,  1917);  and  W.  Ellery  Channing,  Thoreau:  The  Poet 
Naturalist  (Boston,  1873)  new  edition  by  F.  B.  Sanborn  (Boston,  1902)  give 
first-hand  sympathetic,  if  idealistic,  pictures  of  the  man.  A  more  well-rounded 
picture  is  F.  Brooks  Atkinson,  Henry  Thoreau:  The  Cosmic  Yankee  (1927). 
Henry  S.  Canby,  Thoreau  (Boston,  1939)  is  a  discursive  appraisal  of  the 
influences  that  made  Thoreau  and  a  criticism  of  his  writings.  Among  many 
critical  articles  the  most  penetrating  analysis,  if  somewhat  unsympathetic,  is 
J.  R.  Lowell,  "Thoreau"  in  Vol.  1  of  Lowell's  Prose  Works.  Other  note- 
worthy criticisms  are  R.  L.  Stevenson,  "Thoreau,"  in  Familiar  Studies  of  Men 
and  Books  (1888),  pp.  137-173;  Bradford  Torrey,  "Henry  David  Thoreau," 
Atlantic  Monthly  (Jan.,  1905);  Adolph  B.  Benson,  "Scandinavian  Influences 
in  the  Writings  of  Thoreau,"  Scandinavian  Stud.,  Vol.  16  (May,  1941),  pp. 
201-21 1  (Aug.,  1941),  pp.  241-256.  An  interesting  view  of  the  famous  site  is 
George  F.  Whicher,  Walden  Revisited  (Chicago,  1945). 

The  most  convenient  collected  edition  of  Margaret  Fuller  is  The  Writings 
of  Margaret  Fuller,  ed.  Mason  Wade  (1941).  Good  for  source  material  is 
Memoirs  of  Sarah  Margaret  Fuller,  by  R.  W.  Emerson,  W.  H.  Channing, 
and' J.  F.  Clarke,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1852).  The  best  life  of  Margaret  Fuller 
is  Thomas  W.  Higginson,  The  Life  of  Margaret  Fuller  Ossoli,  in  A  M  of  L 
(Boston,  1884)  with  a  good  bibliography.  The  contemporary  biographies  by 
Wade  and  M.  B.  Stern  will  not  add  materially  to  a  knowledge  of  her  achieve- 
ment. The  Journals  of  Bronson  Alcott,  ed.   Odell  Shepard    (1938)    will  be 


io3o     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

sufficient  for  modern  readers.  A  detailed  life  is  F.  B.  Sanborn  and  W.  T. 
Harris,  A.  Bronso?i  Alcott:  His  Life  and  Philosophy,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1893). 
A  good  contemporary  life  is  Odell  Shepard,  Pedlar's  Progress:  The  Life  of 
Bronson  Alcott  (Boston,  1937).  These  should  be  corrected  by  Clara  E.  Sears, 
Bronson  Alcotfs  Fruitlands  with  Transcendental  Wild  Oats  by  L.  M.  Alcott 
(Boston,  1876-1905). 

For  Cranch,  The  Bird  and  the  Bell  with  other  poems  (Boston,  1875)  is  the 
standard  edition.  For  biography  see  Leonora  Cranch  Scott,  Life  and  Letters 
of  Christopher  Cranch  (Boston,  191 7),  which  is  the  only  biography.  The  Poems 
of  Sixty-five  Years,  ed.  F.  B.  Sanborn  (Philadelphia,  1902)  is  the  collected 
edition  of  William  Ellery  Channing,  ii.  The  Poems  of  David  Atwood 
Wasson,  ed.  Mrs.  Edna  D.  Cheyney  (Boston,  1888),  contains  his  collected 
work.  His  autobiography  is  to  be  found  in  his  Essays  (Boston,  1892).  For 
Jones  Very,  his  Poems  with  Memoir  by  W.  P.  Andrews  (Boston,  1883)  and 
Poems  and  Essays,  complete  and  rev.  edition,  with  a  biographical  sketch  by 
J.  F.  Clarke,  will  furnish  all  adequate  information. 


CHAPTER     I  7 

INTUITION  AND  INDEPENDENCE 

Of  great  value  for  information  concerning  Emerson's  writings  is  A  Bibliog- 
raphy of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  by  George  Willis  Cooke  (Boston,  1908). 
Critical  books  and  articles  concerning  Emerson  up  to  1908  are  also  included; 
criticisms  of  Emerson  from  1908  to  191 7  will  be  found  in  the  Bibliography  of 
CHAL  by  Harrison  S.  Steeves.  For  bibliographical  items  since  191 7,  see 
LHUS. 

The  standard  text  of  Emerson  is  The  Complete  Works  of  Ralph  Waldo 
Emerson,  Centenary  Edition,  ed.  Edward  W.  Emerson,  with  valuable  notes, 
12  Vols.  (Boston,  1903-4);  The  Journals  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  E.  W. 
Emerson  and  W.  E.  Forbes,  10  Vols.  (Boston,  1909-14),  are  essential  in  any 
study  of  Emerson.  Material  otherwise  unpublished  is  to  be  found  in  Uncollected 
Writings  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  Charles  C.  Bigelow  (1912);  Un- 
collected Lectures  by  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson:  Reports  of  Lectures  on  American 
Life  and  Natural  Religion,  reprinted  from  The  Commonwealth,  ed.  Clarence 
Gohdes  (1932);  Young  Emerson  Speaks:  Unpublished  Discourses  on  Many 
Subjects,  ed.  Arthur  C.  McGiffert,  Jr.  (Boston,  1938).  Among  many  books 
of  selections  from  Emerson,  perhaps  the  most  useful  are:  The  Heart  of 
F/incrson's  Journals,  ed.  Bliss  Perry  (Boston,  1926);  Emerson's  Essays  and 
Poems,  ed.  A.  H.  Quinn  (1926). 

Most  valuable  are  The  Letters  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  R.  L.  Rusk, 
6  Vols.  (1939).  Other  significant  letters  are  included  in:  The  Correspondence 
of  Thomas  Carlyle  and  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  ed.  C.  E.  Norton,  2  Vols. 
(Boston,  1883);  Records  of  a  Life-Long  Friendship,  1807-1882  (R.  W.  Emerson 
and  W.  H.  Furness),  ed.  Horace  Howard  Furness  (Boston,  1910);  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson  and  John  Sterling,  ed.  Edward  W.  Emerson  (Boston,  1897); 
Correspondence  Between  Emerson  and  Hermann  Grimm,  ed.  F.  W.  Holls 
(Boston,  1903);  Emerson-Clough  Letters,  ed.  H.  F.  Lowrey  and  R.  L.  Rusk 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  103 1 

(Cleveland,  1934);  Letters  from  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  to  a  Friend  [S.  G. 
Ward],  1838-53,  ed.  C.  E.  Norton  (Boston,  1899). 

The  biographies  written  shortly  before  his  death  or  shortly  afterward  by 
persons  who  knew  him  are  still  valuable  sources  of  information  concerning 
his  life.  These  are  George  W.  Cooke,  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson:  His  Life, 
Writings  and  Philosophy  (Boston,  1881);  James  E.  Cabot,  A  Memoir  of  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1887);  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1884),  A  M  of  L;  Edward  W.  Emerson, 
Emerson  in  Concord  (Boston,  1882).  An  informal  series  of  conversations  of 
interest  as  reflecting  Emerson's  opinions  in  1865  is  C.  J.  Woodbury,  Talks 
with  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (1890).  Other  biographies  of  importance  are 
Richard  Garnett,  Life  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (London,  1888);  George  E. 
Woodberry,  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (1904),  E  M  of  L;  O.  W.  Firkins,  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson  (Boston,  191 5).  The  best  of  the  later  biographies  is  Ralph 
L.  Rusk,  The  Life  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  (1949).  Biographies  such  as  Van 
Wyck  Brooks,  The  Life  of  Emerson  (1932)  and  Phillips  Russell,  Emerson: 
The  Wisest  American  (1929)  are  largely  paraphrases  of  the  Journals. 

Among  the  significant  chapters  dealing  with  Emerson  in  various  volumes 
of  criticism  are:  E.  C.  Stedman,  in  Poets  of  America;  James  Russell  Lowell, 
in  My  Study  Windows;  Henry  James,  in  Partial  Portraits;  Matthew  Arnold,  in 
Discourses  in  America;  George  W.  Curtis,  in  Literary  and  Social  Essays;  W. 
C.  Brownell,  in  American  Prose  Masters.  Special  phases  of  Emerson's  life  and 
work  are  discussed  significantly  in:  Charles  L.  Young,  Emerson's  Montaigne 
(1941);  James  B.  Thayer,  A  Western  Journey  with  Mr.  Emerson  (Boston, 
1884);  John  S.  Harrison,  The  Teachers  of  E?nerson  (19 10);  G.  W.  Cooke, 
"Emerson  as  an  Editor  of  the  'Dial'  "  [in  his  Intro,  to  The  Dial]  (Cleveland, 
1902);  Elizabeth  L.  Cary,  Emerson:  Poet  and  Thinker  (1904);  George 
Santayana,  "Emerson,"  Interpretations  of  Poetry  and  Religion  (1900);  F.  L. 
Carpenter,  Emerson  and  Asia  (Cambridge,  1930);  Arthur  Christy,  The  Orient 
in  American  Transcendentalism  (1932);  Bliss  Perry,  Emerson  Today  (Prince- 
ton, 193 1 ),  one  of  the  most  important;  Harry  H.  Clark,  "Emerson  and 
Science,"  Philol.  Quart.,  Vol.  10  (July,  193 1),  pp.  225-260;  Stuart  P.  Sherman, 
"Emersonian  Liberation,"  Americans  (1922);  E.  Marchand,  "Emerson  and  the 
Frontier,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  3  (May,  193 1),  pp.  149-175;  Townsend  Scudder, 
The  Lonely  Wayfaring  Man  (1936)  [Emerson's  experiences  in  England]. 
Foreign  criticism  of  Emerson  may  be  illustrated  by  Marie  Dugard,  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson:  Sa  Vie  et  Son  Oeuvre  (Paris,  1907).  A  Concordance  of  the 
Poems  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  was  completed  by  George  S.  Hubbell  (1932). 

CHAPTER    18 

BEAUTY  AND  THE  SUPERNATURAL 

An  elaborate  bibliography  of  Poe  is  John  W.  Robertson,  A  Bibliography  of 
the  Writings  of  Edgar  A.  Poe,  2  Vols.  (San  Francisco,  1934),  especially  useful 
for  facsimile  reproductions.  The  bibliography  of  Killis  Campbell  in  CHAL 
is  accurate  and  useful.  Other  bibliographies  are  C.  F.  Heartman  and  Kenneth 
Rede,  A  Census  of  First  Editions  and  Source  Materials  by  Edgar  Allan  Poe  in 


io32     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

American  Collections,  2  Vols.  (Metuchen,  N.  J.,  1932)  and  C.  F.  Heartman 
and  J.  R.  Canny,  A  Bibliography  of  First  Printings  of  the  Writings  of  Edgar 
Allan  Poe  (Hattiesburg,  Miss.,  1940,  rev.  edition,  1942).  The  latter  has  to 
be  checked  as  it  is  not  entirely  accurate.  Also  see  J.  C.  Wyllie,  "A  List  of 
the  Texts  of  Poe's  Tales,"  Humanistic  Studies  in  Honor  of  J.  C.  Metcalf 
(Charlottesville,  Va.,  1941).  Dates  and  places  of  every  printing  of  the  poems 
and  short  stories  during  Poe's  life  are  given  in  Complete  Poems  and  Stories 
(see  below),  Vol.  2  (1946).  Extensive  bibliographical  notes  are  given  in  The 
Letters  of  Edgar  A.  Poe,  ed.  J.  W.  Ostrom  (see  below)  (Cambridge,  1948). 
Unusually  complete  lists  of  biographical  and  critical  articles  concerning  Poe 
are  contained  in  the  card  files  of  the  Bibliography  of  American  Literature  at 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  films  furnished  on  request.  In  a  special  field, 
May  G.  Evans,  Music  and  Edgar  Allan  Poe  (Baltimore,  1939)  is  of  interest. 

For  many  years  the  standard  text  of  Poe  was  the  Virginia  Edition,  ed. 
James  A.  Harrison,  17  Vols.  (1902).  This  is  unfortunately  now  out  of  print. 
The  standard  text  of  Poe's  poems  and  short  stories  is  now  found  in  The 
Complete  Poems  and  Short  Stories  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe:  With  Selections  from 
His  Critical  Writings,  with  Intro,  and  explanatory  notes  by  A.  H.  Quinn 
and  texts  established  by  E.  H.  O'Neill  from  the  last  publication  which  Poe 
could  have  supervised,  or  from  MS  sources,  2  Vols.  (1946),  contains  selective 
bib.  The  best  edition  of  the  poems  alone  is  The  Poems  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe,  ed. 
Killis  Campbell  (Boston,  191 7).  This  is  unfortunately  out  of  print. 

The  most  useful  modern  reprints  of  Poe's  individual  volumes  are  as  follows: 
The  Facsimile  Text  Society  has  reproduced  Tamerlane  and  Other  Poems, 
from  the  edition  of  1827  with  an  Intro,  by  T.  O.  Mabbott  (1941);  Al  Aaraaf, 
Tamerlane  and  Minor  Poems,  from  the  edition  of  1829,  ed.  T.  O.  Mabbott 
(1933);  Poems,  from  the  edition  of  183 1,  ed.  Killis  Campbell  (1936);  The  Raven 
and  Other  Poems:  From  the  Lorimer  Graha?n  Copy  of  the  Edition  of  1845, 
ed.  T.  O.  Mabbott  (1942).  Politian:  An  Unfinished  Tragedy  by  Edgar  A.  Poe, 
was  edited  and  published  complete  for  the  first  time  by  T.  O.  Aiabbott  (Rich- 
mond, 1923).  Selected  editions  of  the  stories  are  Poe's  Short  Stories,  ed.  Killis 
Campbell  (1927);  Tales  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe  ed.  James  S.  Wilson  (1927).  The 
standard  edition  of  Poe's  letters  is  The  Letters  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe,  ed.  John 
W.  Ostrom,  2  Vols.  (Cambridge,  1948).  Other  important  publications  of  the 
letters  are:  "The  Letters  from  George  W.  Eveleth  to  Edgar  Allan  Poe,"  ed. 
T.  O.  Mabbott  in  Bulletin  of  the  New  York  Public  Library  (1922),  reprinted 
separately  (1922);  Last  Letters  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe  to  Sarah  Helen  Whitman, 
ed.  J.  A.  Harrison  (1909);  "The  Letters  of  Edgar  A.  Poe  to  George  W. 
Eveleth,"  ed.  J.  S.  Wilson  in  Alumni  Bulletin,  Universitv  of  Virginia,  Vol.  17 
(Jan.,  1924),  pp.  34-59  (reprinted  separately,  1924);  Edgar  Allan  Poe  Letters 
Till  Now  Unpublished,  in  the  Valentine  Museum,  Richmond,  Va.:  With  an 
Introductory  Essay  and  Commentary  by  Mary  Newton  Stanard  (Philadelphia, 
1925);  Edgar  Allan  Poe  Letters  and  Documents  in  the  Enoch  Pratt  Library, 
ed.  A.  H.  Quinn  and  R.  H.  Hart  (1941). 

The  standard  biography  is  A.  H.  Quinn,  Edgar  Allan  Poe:  A  Critical 
Biography  (1941).  Still  interesting,  but  incomplete  like  all  biographies  written 
before  publication  of  the  "Valentine  Letters"  and  the  exposure  of  Griswold's 
forgeries,  arc  George  E.  Woodberry,  The  Life  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe,  2  Vols. 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1033 

(Boston,  1909);  James  A.  Harrison,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe, 
2  Vols.  (1903);  Hervey  Allen,  Israfel:  The  Life  and  Times  of  Edgar  Allan 
Poe,  2  Vols.  (1926-43).  Of  historical  interest  is  John  H.  Ingram,  Edgar  Allan 
Poe,  2  Vols.  (London,  1880,  1884,  1891).  Among  books  and  articles  of  a  critical 
nature,  the  most  useful  are  J.  R.  Lowell,  "Our  Contributors,  No.  XVII,  Edgar 
Allan  Poe,"  Graham's  Magazine,  Vol.  27  (Feb.,  1845),  pp.  49-53;  Sarah  Helen 
Whitman,  Edgar  Poe  and  His  Critics  (i860;  Providence,  1885),  reprinted,  ed. 
Oral  S.  Coad,  with  Intro,  and  Notes  (New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  1949);  E.  C.  Sted- 
man,  Edgar  Allan  Poe  (Boston,  1881),  revised  in  Poets  of  America  (Boston, 
1885);  W.  C.  Brownell,  "Poe,"  in  American  Prose  Masters  (1909);  Killis 
Campbell,  The  Mind  of  Poe:  And  Other  Studies  (Cambridge,  1932).  Of  unusual 
value  in  connection  with  Poe's  solution  of  cryptograms  is  Clarence  S.  Brigham, 
Edgar  Allan  Poe's  Contribution  to  Alexander's  Weekly  Messenger,  Proc. 
Amer.  Antiquarian  Soc,  Vol.  52  (Worcester,  1943),  pp.  45-125.  Criticism  of 
Poe's  influence  abroad  will  be  found  most  helpfully  in  Charles  Baudelaire, 
"Edgar  Poe,  Sa  Vie  et  Ses  Oeuvres"  in  Histoires  Extraordinaires,  Traduit 
d' Edgar  Poe  (Paris,  1856),  Vol.  6  of  Oeuvres  Completes  de  Charles  Baudelaire 
(Paris,  1891);  and  "Notes  Nouvelles  sur  Edgar  Poe"  in  Nouvelles  Histoires 
Extraordinaires,  Traduit  d'Edgar  Poe  (Paris,  1857),  Vol.  7  of  Oeuvres 
Completes  de  Charles  Baudelaire  (Paris,  1892);  Emile  Lauvriere,  Le  Genie 
Morbide  d'Edgar  Poe:  Poesies  et  Contes  (Paris,  1935);  Leon  Lemonnier,  Edgar 
Poe  et  la  Critique  Franqaise  de  1845  &  l$15  (Paris,  1928);  Les  Traducteurs 
d'Edgar  Poe  en  France  de  184$  a  1875:  Charles  Baudelaire  (Paris,  1928); 
"L'InfTuence  d'Edgar  Poe  sur  les  Conteurs  Francais  Symbolistes  et  Decadents," 
Revue  de  Litt.  Comparee,  Vol.  13  (Paris,  1933),  pp.  102-133;  Louis  Seylaz, 
Edgar  Poe  et  les  Premiers  Symbolistes  Frangais  (Lausanne,  1923).  A  good 
summary  of  Poe's  influence  is  C.  P.  Cambiare,  The  Influence  of  Edgar  Allan 
Poe  in  France  (1927).  For  Poe  in  France,  see  also  T.  S.  Eliot,  From  Poe  to 
Valery  (privately  printed,  1948),  also  by  Library  of  Congress  (Washington, 
1949).  For  Poe  in  Spain  see  John  E.  Englekirk,  Edgar  Allan  Poe  in  Hispanic 
Literature  (1934).  Of  singular  interest  is  Poe  in  Foreign  Lands  and  Tongues: 
A  Symposium  at  the  19th  Annual  Commemoration  of  the  Edgar  Allan  Poe 
Society  of  Baltimore,  Jan.  19,  1941,  ed.  John  C.  French  (Baltimore,  1941). 

The  standard  life  of  O'Brien  is  Francis  Wolle,  Fitz-James  O'Brien:  A 
Literary  Bohemian  of  the  1850's  (Boulder,  Colo.,  1944).  The  standard  edition 
of  his  works  is  The  Poems  and  Stories  of  Fitz-James  O'Brien,  collected  and 
edited  with  a  sketch  of  the  author,  by  William  Winter  (Boston,  1881).  The 
most  available  edition  is  The  Dia?nond  Lens  and  Other  Stories,  with  Intro, 
by  G.  Seldes  (1932). 


CHAPTER     1 9 

THE  ROMANCE  OF  THE  MORAL  LIFE 

The  standard  bibliography  of  Hawthorne  is  Nina  C.  Browne,  A  Bibliography 
of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  (Boston,  1905).  This  is  invaluable  for  the  writings 
of  Hawthorne.  For  a  bibliography  of  the  criticisms  of  Hawthorne,  John 
Erskine  in  CHAL,  Vol.  2,  pp.  415-424,  is  still  important. 


io34     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

The  Complete  Works  of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  with  Introductory  Notes  by- 
George  P.  Lathrop,  Riverside  Edition,  12  Vols.  (Boston,  1883),  13  Vols. 
(1890-91)  is  still  of  value.  Writings  of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  Old  Manse 
Edition,  22  Vols.  (Boston,  1904),  has  some  stories  not  in  the  Riverside  Edition. 
Some  of  these  are  falsely  attributed  to  Hawthorne.  Passages  from  the  American 
Note-Books,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1868),  Passages  from  the  English  Note-Books, 
2  Vols.  (Boston,  1870),  and  Passages  from  the  French  and  Italian  Note-Books, 
2  Vols.  (London,  1871)  were  edited  by  Sophia  Hawthorne.  Thev  now  form 
part  of  the  Riverside  Edition.  The  American  Note-Books  (New  Haven,  1932) 
and  The  English  Note-Books,  Modern  Language  Association,  General  Series, 
Vol.  13  (1941),  have  been  re-edited  by  Randall  Stewart  from  the  original  MSS. 
The  differences,  however,  have  been  somewhat  overestimated  bv  the  editor. 
The  most  useful  selections  are:  The  Heart  of  Hawthorne fs  Journals,  ed. 
Newton  Arvin  (Boston,  1929)  and  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  Selections,  ed. 
Austin  Warren  (1935).  This  contains  an  excellent  bibliography. 

Those  biographies  written  by  the  family  or  by  relatives  are  still  among  the 
most  helpful.  G.  P.  Lathrop,  A  Study  of  Hawthorne  (Boston,  1876)  has  hardlv 
been  superseded  in  its  criticism.  Julian  Hawthorne,  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  and 
His  Wife,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1885)  and  Rose  Hawthorne  Lathrop,  Memories 
of  Hawthorne  (Boston,  1897)  are  the  authorized  biographies  and  reveal  the 
great  influence  for  good  of  Sophia  Hawthorne.  Henry  James,  Nathaniel 
Hawthorne,  E  M  of  L  (London,  1879)  is  an  attempt  to  represent  as  unfortunate 
the  effect  upon  Hawthorne  of  American  life.  Among  the  next  group  of 
biographies  one  of  the  best  is  still  G.  E.  Woodberry,  Nathaniel  Hawthorne, 
A  M  of  L  (Boston,  1902).  Excellent  also  is  Newton  Arvin,  Hawthorne  (Boston, 
1929).  Among  contemporary  biographies,  see  Randall  Stewart,  Nathaniel 
Hawthorne  (New  Haven,  1948),  and  Mark  Van  Doren,  Hawthorne  (1949). 
E.  H.  Davidson,  Hawthorne's  Last  Phase  (New  Haven,  1949)  provides  some 
unpublished  preliminary  drafts  of  the  incomplete  novels,  most  of  which  were 
available,  however,  to  Lathrop,  and  to  Julian  and  Una  Hawthorne,  the  editors 
of  Dr.  Grimshawe'  s  Secret  and  Septimius  Felton,  and  the  new  critical  con- 
clusions are  quite  open  to  question. 

Among  biographical  and  critical  articles  H.  W.  Longfellow,  "Hawthorne's 
'Twice  Told  Tales,'  "  North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  45  (July,  1837),  pp.  59-73,  or 
Prose  Works,  Riverside  Edition,  Vol.  1,  pp.  360-367;  R.  W.  Emerson,  "Haw- 
thorne's Burial,"  Journals,  Vol.  10  (1864-76),  pp.  39-41;  O.  W.  Holmes, 
"Nathaniel  Hawthorne,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  14  (July,  1864),  pp.  100-101; 
G.  W.  Curtis,  "The  Works  of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,"  Literary  and  Social 
Essays  (1895)  are  unusually  valuable  for  the  personality  of  Hawthorne  by 
contemporaries.  Of  major  significance  in  criticism  is  E.  A.  Poe,  "  'Twice  Told 
Talcs,'  by  Nathaniel  Hawthorne,"  Graham's  Magazine,  Vol.  20  (April-May, 
1842),  reprinted  in  Virginia  Edition  of  Poe,  Vol.  11  (1902),  pp.  102-113; 
revision  with  additions,  Godey's  Lady's  Book  (Nov.,  1847),  reprinted  in 
Virginia  Edition,  Vol.  13,  pp.  141 -155.  Later  important  articles  are  W.  D. 
Howells,  in  My  Literary  Passions  (1895),  and  "The  Personality  of  Hawthorne," 
North  Amer.  Review,  Vol.  177  (Dec,  1903),  pp.  872-882;  W.  C.  Brownell, 
"Hawthorne,"  American  Prose  Masters  (1909);  Bliss  Perry,  "The  Centenary 
of  Hawthorne,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  94   (Aug.,   1904),  pp.   195-206;  S.  P. 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1035 


Sherman,  "Hawthorne:  A  Puritan  Critic  of  Puritanism"  in  Americans  (1922). 
Contemporary  articles  by  Manning  Hawthorne,  the  grandson  of  the  novelist, 
include  among  the  most  significant  "Hawthorne's  Early  Years,"  Essex  Inst.  Hist. 
Coll.,  Vol.  74  (Jan.,  1938),  pp.  1-21,  and  "Parental  and  Family  Influences  on 
Hawthorne,"  in  the  same,  Vol.  76  (Jan.,  1940),  pp.  1-13.  Valuable  for  its 
consideration  of  the  effect  of  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  is  Bertha  Faust,  Haw- 
thorne's Contemporaneous  Reputation:  A  Study  of  Literary  Opinion  in 
America  and  England,  1828-1864  (Washington,  1939).  See  also  Jane 
Lundblad,  Nathaniel  Hawthorne  and  European  Literary  Tradition  (Upsala, 
Sweden,  and  Cambridge,  1947). 

CHAPTER    2  0 

WIDENING  HORIZONS  IN  POETRY 

The  bibliography  of  Longfellow  in  CHAL,  Vol.  2,  pp.  425-436,  by  H.  W.  L. 
Dana  is  still  of  great  value.  See  also  W.  E.  Benjamin,  Longfellow  Collector's 
Handbook;  a  bibliography  of  first  editions  (1885)  and  Luther  S.  Livingston, 
A  Bibliography  of  the  First  Editions  in  Book  Form  of  the  Writings  of  Henry 
W adsworth  Longfellow  (privately  printed,  1908). 

The  standard  edition  of  Longfellow's  Works  is  the  Riverside  Edition  in  11 
Vols.  (Boston,  1886)  (Vols.  1  to  6,  the  poetical  works;  Vols.  7  and  8,  the  prose 
works;  Vols.  9,  10,  11,  the  translation  of  Dante's  Divina  Commedia).  The 
valuable  explanatory  Notes  in  this  Edition  have  been  partially  included  in 
the  illustrated  De  Luxe  Edition,  10  Vols.  (1909),  in  less  forbidding  type.  The 
revised  edition  of  The  Poets  and  Poetry  of  Europe  was  published  (Boston, 
1870).  See  also  Sonnets  of  Henry  W adsworth  Longfellow,  Intro,  by  Ferris 
Greenslet  (Boston,  1907).  Early  uncollected  work  is  found  in  Longfellow's 
Boyhood  Poems,  ed.  G.  T.  Little  (Saratoga  Springs,  N.  Y.,  1925).  Among  the 
many  poems  of  Longfellow  set  to  music,  the  most  interesting  are:  The  Golden 
Legend,  set  to  music  by  Sir  Arthur  Sullivan  (1880);  The  Building  of  the  Ship, 
vocal  score  (cantata)  written  by  John  F.  Barret  (1880);  scenes  from  Hiawatha 
—"Wedding  Feast,"  set  to  music  by  Samuel  Coleridge  Taylor  (London,  c. 
1898);  Masque  of  Pandora,  music  by  R.  B.  S.  Cole  (St.  Louis,  1922-24). 

The  standard  biography  is  still  Samuel  Longfellow,  The  Life  of  Henry 
W adsworth  Longfellow:  With  Extracts  from  his  Journals  and  Correspondence, 
2  Vols.  (Boston,  1886);  Final  Memorials  (1887,  rearranged  in  3  Vols.,  1891). 
The  best  short  biographies  are  T.  W.  Higginson,  Henry  W adsworth  Long- 
fellow, A  M  of  L  (Boston,  1902)  and  James  T.  Hatfield,  New  Light  on 
Longfellow:  With  Special  Reference  to  His  Relations  with  Germany  (Boston, 
1933).  From  the  personal  side,  H.  W.  L.  Dana,  The  Craigie  House  (Cambridge, 
1939)  and  Lawrance  Thompson,  Young  Longfellow  (1938)  are  of  importance. 

For  the  background  of  Longfellow's  poetry,  an  indispensable  volume  is 
Helen  A.  Clarke,  Longfellow's  Country  (1909).  Information  concerning  the 
sources  of  the  individual  poems  is  given  in  the  footnotes.  All  previous  dis- 
cussions of  Evangeline  have  been  superseded  by  Manning  Hawthorne  and  H. 
W.  L.  Dana,  The  Origin  and  Development  of  Longfellow's  "Evangeline" 
(Portland,  Me.,  1947).  For  Hiawatha  see  Stith  Thompson,  "The  Indian  Legend 


io36     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

of  Hiawatha,"  FAIL  A,  Vol.  37  (March,  1922),  pp.  128-140.  For  general  dis- 
cussion of  the  sources,  the  best  authorities  are  Paul  Morin,  Les  Sources  da 
rOeuvre  de  Henry  Wadsworth  Longfellow  (Paris,  191 3)  and  H.  Varnhagen, 
Longfelloivs  Tales  of  a  Wayside  Inn  mid  ihre  Quellen  (Berlin,  1884).  For 
special  topics,  see:  Edmond  Esteve,  "Longfellow  et  la  France,"  Bowdoin 
College  Bull.  (Brunswick,  Me.,  1925);  Iris  L.  Whitman,  Longfellow  and  Spain 
(Institute  de  las  Espanas,  1927);  Emilio  Goggio,  Italian  Influences  on  Long- 
fellow's Art,  published  in  part,  Romanic  Review  (1919,  1925);  J.  P.  Pritchard, 
"The  Horatian  Influence  upon  Longfellow,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  4  (March,  1932), 
pp.  22-38;  Andrew  Hilen,  Longfellow  and  Scandinavia:  A  Study  of  the  Poefs 
Relationship  with  the  Northern  Languages  and  Literature  (New  Haven,  1947). 
The  following  articles  are  of  interest  on  the  personal  side:  W.  D.  Howells, 
"The  White  Mr.  Longfellow,"  in  Literary  Friends  and  Acquaintance  (1901); 
W.  P.  Trent,  Longfellow  and  Other  Essays  (New  York  and  London,  1910); 
Bliss  Perry,  "The  Centenary  of  Longfellow,"  in  Park  St.  Papers  (Boston  and 
New  York,  1908).  Longfellow's  wide  influence  is  treated  in:  John  E.  Engle- 
kirk,  "Notes  on  Longfellow  in  Spanish  America,"  Hispania,  Vol.  25  (1942), 
pp.  295-308;  Clarence  Gohdes,  "A  Check-List  of  Volumes  by  Longfellow 
Published  in  the  British  Isles  during  the  Nineteenth  Century,"  Bull,  of  Bib., 
Vol.  17  (1940-41),  pp.  46,  67-69,  93-96;  Clarence  Gohdes,  "Longfellow,"  in 
Chapter  Four  of  American  Literature  in  Nineteenth-Century  England  (1944); 
William  Charvat,  "Longfellow's  Income  from  his  Writings,  1840- 1852,"  Papers 
Bib.  Soc.  Amer.,  Vol.  38  (1944),  pp.  9-21. 


CHAPTER    2  I 

THE  HEIGHT  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL 

The  best  bibliography  of  Whittier  is  Thomas  F.  Currier,  A  Bibliography  of 
John  Greenleaf  Whittier  (Cambridge,  1937).  The  standard  edition  of  the 
works  of  Whittier  is  the  Riverside  Edition,  7  Vols.  (Boston,  1888-89;  rev- 
edition,  1894). 

The  standard  biography  is  Samuel  T.  Pickard,  Life  and  Letters  of  John 
Greenleaf  Whittier,  2  Vols.  (1894).  Excellent  lives  are:  T.  W.  Higginson, 
John  Greenleaf  Whittier,  E  M  of  L  (1903);  G.  R.  Carpenter,  John  Greenleaf 
Whittier,  A  M  of  L  (1903);  Samuel  T.  Pickard,  Whittier  as  a  Politician 
(Boston,  1900);  Bliss  Perry,  John  Greenleaf  Whittier  (Boston,  1907).  Albert 
Mordell,  John  Greenleaf  Whittier:  Quaker  Militant  (1933)  is  based  upon  an 
incorrect  theory  concerning  Whittier's  "love  life."  John  A.  Pollard,  Whittier: 
Friend  of  Man  (1949)  stresses  his  humanitarian  accomplishments. 

Critical  judgments  of  importance  are  E.  C.  Stedman,  in  the  Poets  of 
America;  G.  E.  Woodberry  in  Makers  of  Literature  (1900). 

The  Household  Edition  of  the  works  of  Bayard  Taylor  in  14  Vols.  (Boston 
and  New  York,  1870)  and  more  recently  in  16  Vols,  (n.d.)  are  long  out  of  | 
print.  The  Eldorado  Edition,  8  Vols,  (n.d.,  but  before  1892)  is  more  available. 
The  Poetical  Works  of  Bayard  Taylor  (Boston,  1880,  rev.  edition,  1892)  and 
The  Dramatic  Works  of  Bayard  Taylor  (Boston,  1880)  contain  the  best  of  his 
poetry.  His  major  works,  such  as  the  translation  of  Faust  and  The  Story  of 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1037 

Kennett  have  been  frequently  reprinted.  Eldorado  was  issued  in  an  illustrated 
edition,  with  Intro,  by  R.  G.  Cleland  (1949).  Two  useful  biographies  are  Marie 
H.  Taylor  and  H.  E.  Scudder,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  Bayard  Taylor,  2  Vols. 
(Boston,  1884)  and  Albert  H.  Smyth,  Bayard  Taylor,  A  M  of  L  (Boston, 
1896).  The  latter  contains  a  good  bibliography.  A  large  collection  of  Taylor's 
letters  is  in  the  Cornell  Library.  Among  other  letters,  the  following  will  be 
of  value:  Robert  Warnock,  "Bayard  Taylor's  Unpublished  Letters  to  his  Sister 
Annie,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  7  (March,  1935),  pp.  47-55;  Unpublished  Letters  of 
Bayard  Taylor  in  the  Huntington  Library  ed.  John  R.  Schultz  (San  Marino, 
Calif.,  1939);  and  The  Correspondence  of  Bayard  Taylor  and  Paul  Hamilton 
Hayne  edited  with  Intro,  and  Notes  by  Charles  Duffy  (Baton  Rouge,  La., 
1945)- 

An  indication  of  the  position  of  Taylor  in  his  own  day  may  be  found  in 
E.  C.  Stedman,  Poets  of  America,  (Boston,  1885). 

CHAPTER    2  2 

THE  RATIONALIST  IN  AMERICAN  LITERATURE 

The  Bibliography  of  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  ed.  G.  B.  Ives  (Boston,  1907) 
is  of  great  service  up  to  1907.  It  is  supplemented  by  Thomas  F.  Currier,  "The 
Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table:  A  Bibliographical  Study,"  Papers  Bib.  Soc. 
of  Amer.,  Vol.  38  (Nov.  3,  1944),  pp.  284-311.  The  standard  editions  of  the 
writings  of  Holmes  are  the  Riverside  Edition,  14  Vols.  (Boston,  1891),  or  the 
Library  Edition  containing  the  Lives  of  Emerson  and  Motley,  or  the  Autocrat 
Edition  (1904)  complete. 

The  standard  biography  is  J.  T.  Morse,  Jr.,  Life  and  Letters  of  Oliver 
Wendell  Holmes,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1896).  Other  biographies  are:  M.  A. 
DeW.  Howe,  Holmes  of  the  Breakfast  Table  (London  and  New  York  1939); 
a  popular  life  containing  some  new  information  concerning  his  medical  career 
is  Eleanor  M.  Tilton,  Amiable  Autocrat:  A  Biography  of  Dr.  Oliver  Wendell 
Holmes  (1947);  a  brief"  but  sympathetic  biography  is  Samuel  M.  Crothers, 
Oliver  Wendell  Holmes:  The  Autocrat  and  His  Fellow  Boarders  (Boston, 
1909),  which  contains  a  selection  of  poems. 

Important  critical  articles  are:  G.  W.  Curtis  in  Literary  and  Social  Essays 
(1904);  T.  W.  Higginson  in  Old  Cambridge  (1899);  W.  D.  Howells,  in 
Literary  Friends  and  Acquaintance  (1901);  Brander  Matthews  in  CHAL, 
Vol.  2,  pp.  224-240.  bib. 

CHAPTER    23 

PATRICIAN  DEMOCRACY 

The  standard  bibliography  of  Lowell's  writings  is  G.  W.  Cooke,  Bibliography 
of  James  Russell  Lowell  (Boston,  1906).  A  useful  bibliography  arranged 
chronologically  is  found  in  Vol.  2,  pp.  421-447,  of  Scudder's  biography  (see 
below).  See  also  Luther  S.  Livingston,  A  Bibliography  of  the  First  Editions 
in  Book  Form  of  the  Writings  of  James  Russell  Lowell  (privately  printed, 
1914). 


i  o3 8      THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

The  Riverside  Edition  of  Lowell's  writings,  supervised  by  the  author,  in 
10  Vols.  (Boston,  1890),  was  supplemented  by  Vol.  11,  Latest  Literary  Essays 
and  Addresses,  ed.  C.  E.  Norton  (Boston,  1892).  The  Elmwood  Edition,  ed. 
Norton,  retained  the  original  titles  and  contents  of  the  Vols,  of  prose  essays 
and  included  the  letters  (see  below),  making  16  Vols.  (Boston,  1904).  Addi- 
tional texts  are  found  in  Early  Prose  Writings  of  James  Russell  Lowell,  ed. 
Walter  Littlefield,  prefatory  note  by  E.  E.  Hale  (London  and  New  York, 
1903);  Impressions  of  Spam,  ed.  J.  B.  Gilder  (1899),  and  The  Uncollected 
Periodical  Poems  of  ]ames  Russell  Lowell,  ed.  Thelma  M.  Smith  (Philadelphia, 
1950).  The  most  important  letters  are  found  in  Letters  of  ]ames  Russell  Lowell, 
ed.  C.  E.  Norton,  2  Vols.  (1894;  rev-  edition,  3  Vols.,  1904),  and  New  Letters 
of  James  Russell  Lowell,  ed.  M.  A.  DeW.  Howe  (1932). 

The  standard  biography  is  H.  E.  Scudder,  James  Russell  Lowell:  A 
Biography,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1901).  Others  of  some  value  are  Francis  H. 
Underwood,  The  Poet  and  the  Man:  Recollections  and  Appreciations  of  James 
Russell  Lowell  (Boston,  1893,  bib.),  and  Ferris  Greenslet,  James  Russell  Lowell 
(Boston,  1906).  Among  collective  tributes  are  the  Lowell  Memorial  Number, 
Cambridge  Tribune  (Feb.  20,  1892)  and  Commemoration  of  the  Centenary  of 
the  Birth  of  James  Russell  Lowell:  Held  under  the  Auspices  of  the  American 
Acade?ny  of  Arts  and  Letters  (Feb.  19-22,  1919),  Addresses  by  Elihu  Root, 
John  Galsworthy,  Brander  Matthews,  Barrett  Wendell;  Poems  by  Alfred 
Noyes,  etc.  (191 9). 

The  most  important  criticism  is  found  in  E.  A.  Poe,  "Poems  by  J.  R. 
Lowell,"  in  Graham's  Magazine  (March,  1844),  Virginia  Edition,  Poe's  Works, 
Vol.  11,  pp.  243-249;  G.  W.  Curtis,  "James  Russell  Lowell,"  address,  reprinted 
in  Orations  and  Addresses  (1892);  Henry  James,  in  Essays  in  London  and 
Elsewhere  (1893),  pp.  44-80;  W.  D.  Howells,  in  Literary  Friends  and 
Acquaintance  (1901),  pp.  212-250;  G.  E.  Woodberry,  in  Makers  of  Literature 
(1900);  W.  C.  Brownell,  in  American  Prose  Masters  (1909),  and  Norman 
Foerster,  "Lowell  as  a  Poet  of  Nature,"  Sewanee  Review,  Vol.  25  (Oct.,  191 7), 
pp.  422-442.  Additional  items  on  special  topics  will  be  found  in  Chapters  24 
and  25. 


CHAPTER    24 

THE  FOUNDATIONS  OF  AMERICAN  CRITICISM 

For  this  period  in  American  literature,  valuable  treatments  are  William 
Charvat,  The  Origins  of  American  Critical  Thought,  1810-1835,  (Philadelphia, 
1936);  Norman  Foerster,  American  Criticism  (Boston,  1928);  H.  H.  Clark, 
"Literary  Criticism  in  the  North  A?ner.  Rev.,  1815-1835,"  Trans.  Wis.  Acad. 
Sciences,  Arts,  and  Letters,  Vol.  32  (1940),  pp.  299-350.  John  P.  Pritchard, 
Return  to  the  Fountains:  Some  Classical  Sources  of  American  Criticism 
(Durham,  N.  C,  1942),  which  includes  several  articles  in  the  Trans.  Amer. 
Phil.  Assoc,  and  in  The  Classical  Weekly. 

For   individual   bibliographies  of  Bryant,  Emerson,  Poe,   and   Lowell,  see 
Chapters  15,  17,  18,  and  23. 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1039 

CHAPTER    25 

LITERATURE,  POLITICS  AND  SLAVERY 

This  Chapter  is  based  partially  upon  A.  H.  Quinn,  "American  Literature  and 
American  Politics,"  Proc.  A?ner.  Antiquarian  Soc.   (April,   1944;  Worcester, 

1945)- 

For  background  of  anti-Slavery  writings  see:  Mary  S.  Locke,  Anti-Slavery  in 
America:  From  the  Introduction  of  African  Slaves  to  the  Prohibition  of  the 
Slave  Trade,  1619-1808  (Boston,  1901);  L.  D.  Turner,  Anti-Slavery  Sentiment 
in  American  Literature  Prior  to  186$  (Washington,  1929);  E.  P.  Oberholtzer, 
"Black  Letters,"  in  Literary  History  of  Philadelphia,  Chap.  9  (Philadelphia, 
1906);  G.  H.  Barnes,  The  Anti-Slavery  Impulse,  1830-1844  (1933);  Janet 
Wilson,  "The  Early  Anti-Slavery  Propaganda,"  More  Books,  Vol.  19,  No.  9 
(Nov.,  1944),  pp.  343-359;  No.  10  (Dec,  1944),  pp.  393-405.  For  the  pro- 
Slavery  background,  see:  Ulrich  Phillips,  "The  Literary  Movement  for 
Secession,"  Stud,  in  South.  Hist,  and  Pol.  (1914),  pp.  31-60;  W.  S.  Jenkins, 
Pro-Slavery  Thought  in  the  Old  South  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1935);  Jeanette 
R.  Tandy,  "Pro-Slavery  Propaganda  in  American  Fiction  of  the  Fifties," 
South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  21  (Jan.  and  April,  1922),  pp.  41-50;  170-178; 
W.  L.  Fleming,  "Deportation  and  Colonization,"  Stud,  in  South.  Hist,  and 
Pol.  (1914),  pp.  1-30;  The  Pro-Slavery  Argument,  containing  articles  by 
Simms  and  others  (Philadelphia,  1853). 

Bibliographies  of  authors  treated  in  this  Chapter  will  be  found  in  the 
Chapter  Bibliographies  as  follows:  Irving  and  Paulding,  Chapter  13;  Cooper 
and  Simms,  Chapter  14;  Thoreau,  Chapter  16;  Emerson,  Chapter  17;  Poe, 
Chapter  18;  Hawthorne,  Chapter  19;  Longfellow,  Chapter  20;  Lowell,  Chapter 
23;  Boker,  Chapter  26.  References  to  individual  books  and  articles  dealing 
with  politics  will  be  found  in  the  footnotes. 

Among  literary  attacks  upon  Slavery  in  this  period,  of  special  importance 
are:  Thomas  Jefferson,  Notes  on  the  State  of  Virginia  (1784);  Robert  Walsh, 
Jr.,  Free  Remarks  on  the  Spirit  of  the  Federal  Constitution  and  the  Obligations 
of  the  Union  Respecting  the  Exclusion  of  Slavery  from  the  Territories,  by  a 
Philadelphian  (Philadelphia,  1819);  Lydia  Maria  Child,  An  Appeal  in  Favor 
of  that  Class  of  Americans  Called  Africans  (Boston,  1833);  W.  E.  Channing, 
Emancipation  (Boston,  1840);  The  Anti-Slavery  Papers  of  James  Russell 
Lowell,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1906).  See  also  S.  T.  Pickard,  Whittier  as  a  Politician 
(Boston,  1900).  The  standard  edition  of  Mrs.  Stowe  is  Works,  Riverside 
Edition,  16  Vols.  (Boston,  1896).  The  best  biographies  are:  Mrs.  Annie  Fields, 
Life  of  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  (Boston,  1896);  C.  E.  Stowe  and  Lyman 
Beecher  Stowe,  Life  of  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  (New  York  and  Boston,  191 1); 
L.  B.  Stowe,  Saints,  Sinners,  and  Beechers  (Indianapolis,  1934);  Forrest  Wilson, 
Crusader  in  Crinoline  (1941). 

For  the  literary  defences  of  Slavery,  the  most  important  are:  James  K. 
Paulding,  Slavery  in  the  United  States  (1836);  William  J.  Grayson,  The 
Hireling  and  the  Slave  (Charleston,  1852);  Edward  B.  Bryan,  The  Rightful 
Remedy:  Addressed  to  the  Slaveholders  of  the  South  (Charleston,  S.  C,  1850); 
Hinton  R.  Helper,  The  Impending  Crisis  (1857,  reprinted,   1867);  James  P. 


io4o      THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

Holcombe,  "Is  Slavery  Consistent  with  Natural  Law?"  South.  Lit.  Messenger 
(Dec,  1858). 

CHAPTER    26 

REVOLT  AND  CELEBRATION  IN  THE  DRAMA 

For  general  references  to  dramatic  history  and  anthologies,  see  the  Bibliography 
to  Chapter  12.  Extensive  bibliographies,  including  the  location  of  manuscript 
collections  of  authors  treated  in  this  chapter,  are  found  in  A  History  of  the 
American  Drama  from  the  Beginning  to  the  Civil  War,  Chaps.  VIII  to  XIII. 
The  published  plays  of  Penn  Smith  are  hard  to  obtain  in  original  editions; 
The  Triumph  at  Flattsburg  was  printed  first  by  A.  H.  Quinn  in  Representative 
American  Flays  (1917);  several  of  the  manuscript  plays,  ed.  R.  W.  Ware  and 
H.  W.  Schoenberger,  are  in  Vol.  13  of  America's  Lost  Plays  (Princeton,  1941). 
The  standard  biography  is  Bruce  W.  McCullough,  The  Life  and  Writings  of 
Richard  Penn  Smith:  With  a  Reprint  of  his  Play,  "The  Deformed"  1830 
(Menasha,  Wis.,  191 7).  For  reasons  given  in  the  text,  Bird's  plays  were  not 
published  during  his  lifetime.  The  Broker  of  Bogota  was  first  printed  in 
Representative  American  Plays.  In  1919,  Clement  Foust  wrote  an  authoritative 
Life  and  Dramatic  Works  of  Robert  Montgomery  Bird,  printing  for  the  first 
time  Pelopidas,  The  Gladiator,  and  Oralloossa,  and  reprinting  The  Broker 
of  Bogota,  with  a  bibliography.  The  City  Looking  Glass  was  edited  for  the 
Colophon  by  A.  H.  Quinn  (1933).  The  Cowled  Lover,  Caridorf:  or,  The 
Avenger,  News  of  the  Night:  or,  a  Trip  to  Niagara  and  'Twas  All  for  the 
Best:  or,  ^Tis  All  a  Notion  were  edited  by  E.  H.  O'Neill  for  America's  Lost 
Plays,  Vol.  12  (1941).  A  selection  from  Bird's  letters,  ed.  Seymour  Thompson, 
was  published  in  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  Library  Chronicle,  Vol.  7 
(March-Nov.,  1939),  Vol.  8  (April,  1940).  The  Life  of  Bird,  written  by  his 
wife,  Mary  M.  Bird,  was  published  in  the  Library  Chronicle,  ed.  Seymour 
Thompson,  from  Vol.  12  (Oct.,  1944)  until  Vol.  13  (Sept.,  1945).  The 
plays  of  the  remaining  dramatists  in  this  chapter  are  obtainable  only  with 
difficulty  in  their  original  editions.  Tortesa  the  Usurer  was  reprinted  in 
Representative  American  Plays  and  Bianca  Visconti  in  Halline's  American 
Plays  (1935).  Sertorius  and  Jack  Cade  were  reprinted  in  Representative  Plays 
by  American  Dramatists,  Vol.  2  (1925).  The  standard  biography  of  Willis 
is  H.  A.  Beers,  Nathaniel  Parker  Willis  (Boston,  1885),  but  the  treatment  of 
the  plays  is  relatively  inadequate.  For  criticism,  see  E.  A.  Poe,  Works,  Virginia 
Edition,  Vol.  10,  pp.  27-30,  and  Vol.  13,  pp.  33-54.  The  Plays,  Prose  and  Poetry 
of  Charlotte  Barnes  Connor  (Philadelphia,  1848)  are  occasionally  to  be 
found. 

The  collected  Plays  and  Poems  of  Boker  (Boston,  1856-91)  are  out  of  print. 
Francesco,  da  Rimini  was  reprinted  in  Representative  American  Plays,  in  which 
is  indicated  the  difference  between  the  published  version  and  the  acting  versions 
of  Davenport  and  Barrett.  Nydia  was  edited  with  Boker's  Sonnets:  A  Sequence 
on  Profane  Love,  by  E.  S.  Bradley  (Philadelphia,  1927).  He  has  also  edited 
Glaucus,  The  World  A  Mask  and  The  Bankrupt,  for  America's  Lost  Plays 
(Princeton,  1940).  The  authoritative  biography  is  E.  S.  Bradley,  George 
Henry   Boker:  Poet  and  Patriot   (Philadelphia,    1927)   with  an  excellent  bib- 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1041 

liography.  For  criticism  see  R.  H.  Stoddard,  "George  Henry  Boker,"  Lippin- 
cotfs  Mag.,  Vol.  45  (1890),  pp.  856-867;  C.  G.  Leland,  "Boker's  Plays," 
Sartain's  Mag.,  Vol.  8  (1851),  pp.  369-378;  [G.  P.  Lathrop]  "Some  Recol- 
lections of  Boker,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  55  (1890),  pp.  427-430.  Among 
modern  articles  are  A.  H.  Quinn,  "The  Dramas  of  George  Henry  Boker," 
PMLA,  Vol.  32  (June,  1917),  pp.  233-266,  and  from  the  personal  point  of 
view,  "George  Henry  Boker:  Playwright  and  Patriot,"  Scribner's  Mag.,  Vol. 
73  (1923),  pp.  701-715.  Leonora:  or  the  World's  Own  (Boston,  1857)  was 
reprinted  in  Representative  American  Plays.  Hippolytus  was  edited  by  J.  B. 
Russak  for  America's  Lost  Plays,  Vol.  16  (Princeton,  1941).  For  the  life  of 
Mrs.  Howe,  see  her  Reminiscences,  (1899),  and  Laura  E.  Richards  and  Maud 
H.  Elliott,  Julia  Ward  Howe,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  191 5). 

For  the  Indian  and  Revolutionary  plays,  see  Laurence  Hutton,  Curiosities 
of  the  American  Stage  (1891),  Scenes  I  and  II.  Metmora  was  edited  by  E.  R. 
Page  for  America's  Lost  Plays,  Vol.  14  (Princeton,  1941).  Custis's  Pocahontas 
was  reprinted  in  Representative  American  Plays.  The  MS  of  De  Soto  is  in  the 
Library  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Bunce's  Love  in  '76  was  reprinted 
in  Representative  Plays  by  American  Dramatists,  Vol.  3  (1920). 

The  first  general  treatment  of  the  comedy  types  was  the  valuable  article 
by  Brander  Matthews,  "The  American  on  the  Stage,"  Scribnefs  Monthly, 
Vol.  18  (July,  1879),  pp.  321-333.  It  was  amplified  by  Hutton,  in  his 
Curiosities  of  the  American  Stage.  The  best  of  J.  S.  Jones's  plays,  The  People's 
Lawyer  and  The  Silver  Spoon,  have  been  frequently  reprinted,  the  last  in 
191 1.  E.  R.  Page  gives  a  list  of  the  plays  in  his  edition  of  The  Usurper,  in 
America's  Lost  Plays  (Princeton,  1941). 

fashion  was  reprinted  in  Representative  American  Plays.  Mrs.  Mowatt's 
Autobiography  of  an  Actress:  or  Eight  Years  on  the  Stage  (Boston,  1854), 
is  of  great  value,  not  only  for  her  plays,  but  also  for  general  theatrical  con- 
ditions. Poe's  criticisms  in  the  Broadway  Journal,  both  of  her  plays  and  her 
acting,  are  found  most  conveniently  in  the  Virginia  Edition  of  his  works, 
Vol.  12,  pp.  1 1 2-1 2 1,  124-129,  184-192.  For  Mrs.  Bateman,  see  Carson's  Theatre 
of  the  Frontier.  Self  was  reprinted  in  Representative  Plays  by  American 
Dramatists,  Vol.  2.  Rip  Van  Winkle,  as  played  by  Joseph  Jefferson,  was  pub- 
lished, with  an  Intro,  by  Jefferson  (1895).  It  was  reprinted  in  Representative 
American  Plays.  The  Autobiography  of  Joseph  Jefferson  (1890),  and  William 
Winter,  The  Jeffersons  (Boston,  1881),  contain  the  best  accounts  of  Joseph 
Jefferson  and  his  ancestors. 

The  plays  of  Boucicault  are  rapidly  becoming  unavailable.  The  Octoroon 
was  reprinted  in  Representative  American  Plays.  The  New  York  Public 
Library  possesses  a  valuable  collection  of  prompt  books  of  Boucicault,  among 
them  Belle  Lamar,  printed  for  the  first  time  in  Plays  for  the  College  Theatre, 
ed.  G.  H.  Leverton  (1933).  The  MS  prompt  book  of  Dot  is  in  the  Library  of 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Louis  XI  and  minor  plays  were  edited  by 
Allardyce  Nicoll  and  F.  T.  Clark  for  America's  Lost  Plays,  Vol.  1  (Princeton, 
1940).  The  standard  biography  is  Townsend  Walsh,  The  Career  of  Dion 
Boucicault,  Pub.  of  the  Dunlap  Society  (191 5),  Series  3,  No.  1. 

For  the  theatre  a  good  resume  is  O.  S.  Coad  and  Edwin  Mims,  Jr.,  The 
American  Stage,  Vol.   14  of  The  Pageant  of  America   (New  Haven,   1929). 


io42     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

Among  local  histories  of  the  stage,  the  most  important  is  George  C.  D.  Odell, 
Annals  of  the  New  York  Stage,  of  which  15  Vols.,  bringing  the  record  to 
1894,  have  appeared  (1927-49).  This  has  become  the  authoritative  book  in 
its  field,  although  J.  N.  Ireland's  Records  of  the  New  York  Stage  frmn  1750 
to  i860,  2  Vols.  (1866-67)  is  still  useful.  Of  the  projected  series  dealing  with 
the  Philadelphia  stage,  three  volumes  have  appeared,  T.  C.  Pollock,  The 
Philadelphia  Theatre  in  the  Eighteenth  Century  (Philadelphia,  1933);  R.  D. 
James,  Old  Drury  of  Philadelphia:  A  History  of  the  Philadelphia  Stage,  1800- 
1835  (Philadelphia,  1932),  which  includes  a  reprint  of  the  diary  of  William 
Wood;  A.  H.  Wilson,  A  History  of  the  Philadelphia  Theatre,  1835-1855 
(Philadelphia,  1935).  These  have  become  the  authoritative  record  of  the 
Philadelphia  Stage  in  this  period.  Very  useful  as  source  material  is  Charles 
Durang,  The  Philadelphia  Stage:  From  the  Year  1749  to  the  Year  1855.  It  was 
never  published  in  book  form.  Complete  files  of  the  Sunday  Dispatch  in  which 
it  appeared  are  to  be  found  in  the  libraries  of  the  Philadelphia  Company, 
of  the  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania,  and  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 
W.  B.  Wood,  Personal  Recollections  of  the  Stage  (Philadelphia,  1855)  is  a 
firsthand  source  of  information.  Francis  C.  Wemyss,  Twenty-six  Years  of  the 
Life  of  an  Actor  and  Manager,  2  Vols.  (1847)  ^s  an  important  source  of 
information  upon  the  stage  in  Philadelphia,  New  York,  and  Pittsburgh.  For 
this  period,  W.  W.  Clapp,  Jr.,  A  Record  of  the  Boston  Stage  (Boston,  1853) 
is  still  the  standard  work  for  that  city,  supplemented  by  Eugene  Tompkins 
and  Quincy  Kilby,  The  History  of  the  Boston  Theatre,  1854-1901  (Boston, 
1908),  and  Edward  W.  Mammen,  "The  Old  Stock  Company.  The  Boston 
Museum  and  other  19th-century  Theatres,"  More  Books  (Jan.  to  May,  1944). 
Among  the  most  complete  of  recent  stage  histories  are:  W.  G.  B.  Carson, 
The  Theatre  on  the  Frontier  (Chicago,  1932);  Managers  in  Distress:  The 
Saint  Louis  Stage,  1840-1844  (St.  Louis,  1949);  Nelle  Smither,  "  A  History  of 
the  English  Theatre  at  New  Orleans,  1806- 1842,"  Louisiana  Hist.  Quart.,  Vol. 
28  (Jan.-April,  1945),  PP-  1-406;  reprinted  as  separate  Vol.;  W.  S.  Hoole,  The 
Ante-Bellum  Charleston  Theatre  (Univ.  of  Ala.  Press,  1946);  M.  S.  Stockley, 
"American  Plays  in  the  Richmond  Theater,  18 19- 1838,"  Stud,  in  Phil.,  Vol.  37 
(1940);  for  the  Far  West,  see  Constance  Rourke,  Troupers  of  the  Gold  Coast 
(1928);  Sister  Joseph  Marie,  The  Role  of  the  Church  and  the  Folk  in  the 
Development  of  Early  Drama  in  New  Mexico  (Philadelphia,  1948).  An 
unusually  valuable  treatment  of  theatre  production  is  Lee  Simonson,  The  Art 
of  Scenic  Design  (1950).  In  a  related  field,  Paul  McPharlin,  The  Puppet 
Theatre  in  A?nerica  (1949),  is  of  value. 


CHAPTER    27 

THE  LITERARY  HISTORIANS 

For  this  group  in  general,  see  J.  S.  Bassett,  The  Middle  Group  of  American 
Historians  (191 7).  The  most  complete  bibliographies  of  Bancroft  are  in  the 
biography  by  Nye  (see  below),  pp.  324-330  and  337-340,  and  in  CHAL,  in 
which  is  given  a  detailed  analysis  of  the  different  editions  of  his  History.  The 
dates  of  the  10- Volume  edition  are  given  in  the  text.  The  6- Volume  edition 


PART  II:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1043 

was  finally  issued  in  1883.  Bancroft's  Literary  and  Historical  Miscellanies 
appeared  in  1855.  The  two  outstanding  biographies  are  M.  A.  DeW.  Howe, 
The  Life  and  Letters  of  George  Bancroft,  2  Vols.  (1908),  and  R.  B.  Nye, 
George  Bancroft:  Brahmin  Rebel  (1944).  The  best  modern  critical  article 
on  Bancroft  is  N.  H.  Dawes  and  F.  T.  Nichols,  "Revaluating  Bancroft,"  New 
England  Quart.,  Vol.  6  (June,  1933),  pp.  278-293. 

The  standard  editions  of  Prescott's  works  are  those  edited  by  John  F.  Kirk 
in  16  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  1874)  and  by  W.  F.  Munro  in  22  Vols.  (Philadelphia 
and  London,  1904).  His  Biographical  and  Critical  Miscellanies  (1845)  have 
been  often  reprinted.  The  best  selected  text  is  William  Charvat  and  Michael 
Kraus,  William  Hickling  Prescott:  Representative  Selections  (1943)  with  good 
Intro,  and  selective  bib.  For  the  letters  see  Correspondence  of  William  Hickling 
Prescott,  1833-1847,  ed.  by  Roger  Wolcott  (Boston  and  New  York,  1925). 
The  standard  biography  is  still  George  Ticknor,  The  Life  of  William  Hickling 
Prescott  (Boston,  1864),  with  later  treatments  by  R.  W.  Ogden,  William 
Hickling  Prescott,  A  M  of  L  (Boston,  1904)  and  H.  T.  Peck,  William  H. 
Prescott,  E  M  of  L  (New  York  and  London,  1905).  For  criticism  see  George 
Bancroft,  "Prescott's  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,"  United  States  Mag.  and  Demo- 
cratic Rev.,  Vol.  2  (May,  1838),  pp.  160-166,  and  William  Charvat,  "Prescott's 
Political  and  Social  Attitudes,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  13   (Jan.,  1942),  pp.  320-330. 

The  standard  edition  of  Motley's  Writings  is  the  Netherland  Edition,  ed. 
C.  W.  Curtis,  17  Vols.  (New  York  and  London,  1900).  A  volume  of  selections, 
John  Lothrop  Motley,  ed.  C.  P.  Higby  and  B.  T.  Schwartz  (1939),  contains 
examples  of  his  historical  and  literary  writings.  O.  W.  Holmes,  John  Lothrop 
Motley:  A  Memoir  (Boston,  1879-98),  for  reasons  given  in  Chapter  22,  is  not 
entirely  satisfactory.  Other  references  are  in  footnotes. 

CHAPTER    28 

LITERATURE  AND  THE  ALLIED  ARTS 

Helpful  bibliographies  are  Elizabeth  McCausland,  "A  Selected  Bibliography 
on  American  Painting  and  Sculpture  from  Colonial  Times  to  the  Present," 
Magazine  of  Art,  Vol.  39  (Nov.,  1946),  pp.  329-350,  and  Alan  Lomax  and  S.  R. 
Cowell,  American  Folk  Song  and  Folk  Lore:  A  Regional  Bibliography  (1942). 
Standard  works  of  a  general  nature  on  American  arts  are:  William  Dunlap, 
History  of  the  Rise  and  Progress  of  the  Arts  of  Design  in  the  United  States, 
2  Vols.  (1834,  reprinted,  3  Vols.  Boston,  1918);  Erwin  O.  Christensen,  The 
Index  of  American  Design  (1950);  Frank  Jewett  Mather,  Jr.,  Painting, 
Charles  Rufus  Morey,  Sculpture,  Frank  J.  Mather,  Jr.,  Graphic  Arts,  and 
William  J.  Henderson,  Music,  in  the  Pageant  of  America  series,  Vol.  12 
(New  Haven,  1927);  Alan  Burroughs,  Limners  and  Likenessess:  Three 
Centuries  of  American  Painting  (Cambridge,  1936);  Peyton  Boswell,  Modern 
American  Painting  (1939);  H.  B.  Wehle,  American  Miniatures,  1730-1850: 
with  A  Biographical  Dictionary  of  the  Artists  by  Theodore  Bolton  (1937); 
E.  P.  Richardson,  "New  Horizons,"  Magazine  of  Art,  Vol.  39  (Nov.,  1946), 
pp.  281-291;  Wolfgang  Born,  American  Landscape  Painting  (New  Haven, 
1948).  Special  treatments  of  noted  painters  are:  C.  C.  Sellers,  Charles  Willson 


io44     THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  NATIONAL  LITERATURE 

Peak,  2  Vols.  (Philadelphia,  1947);  Lawrence  Park,  Gilbert  Stuart:  An 
Illustrated  Descriptive  List  of  his  Works,  4  Vols.  (1926);  J.  B.  Flagg,  Wash- 
ington Allston:  Life  and  Letters  (1892);  E.  P.  Richardson,  Washington  Allston: 
A  Study  of  the  Romantic  Artist  in  America  (Chicago,  1948),  which  is  of 
great  value  as  a  picture  of  the  position  of  the  artist  in  America;  Edward  Biddle 
and  Mantle  Fielding,  The  Life  and  Works  of  Thomas  Sully  (Philadelphia, 
1 921);  Bartlett  Cowdrey  and  Herman  W.  Williams,  Jr.,  with  Foreword  by 
H.  B.  Wehle,  William  Sidney  Mount,  1807-1868:  An  American  Painter  (1944); 
H.  T.  Peters,  Currier  and  Ives:  Printmakers  to  the  American  People  (Garden 
City,  N.  Y.,  1942);  Russel  Crouse,  Mr.  Currier  and  Mr.  Ives  (Garden  City, 
N.  Y.,  1930).  Standard  works  on  sculpture  are  Lorado  Taft,  The  History  of 
American  Sculpture  (1903,  rev.  edition,  with  Supplementary  Chapter  by 
Adeline  Adams  1930),  and  Albert  T.  Gardner,  Yankee  Stone  Cutters,  printed 
for  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art  (1945).  Henry  James,  William  Wetmore 
Story  and  His  Friends,  2  Vols.  (Edinburgh,  London,  and  Boston,  1903)  is 
useful  for  relationship  of  artists  and  men  of  letters. 

A  great  deal  of  information  may  be  obtained  from  the  catalogues  of 
exhibitions  recently  held.  Among  the  most  important  are:  Life  in  America: 
A  Special  Loan  Exhibition  of  Paintings  Held  During  the  Period  of  the  New 
York  World's  Fair,  Intro,  by  Harry  B.  Wehle  (Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art, 
1939);  Catalogue  of  American  Portraits  in  the  New  York  Historical  Society, 
Intro,  by  A.  J.  Wall  (New  York  Historical  Society,  1941);  William  Sawitzky, 
Paintings  and  Miniatures  in  the  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania  (Phila- 
delphia, 1942);  Joseph  T.  Frazer,  Jr.,  Star  Presentation:  The  Academy's  Most 
Important  Possessions  Stored  as  a  War  Precaution  Return  to  the  Galleries 
(Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine  Arts,  Philadelphia,  1945);  E.  P.  Richardson, 
ed.  Washington  Allston:  A  Loan  Exhibition  of  Paintings,  Drawings,  and 
Memorabilia  (Detroit  Institute  of  Arts,  1947);  The  Herbert  L.  Pratt  Collec- 
tion (Amherst  College,  1946). 

The  standard  treatments  of  Architecture  are  Fiske  Kimball,  American 
Architecture  (Indianapolis  and  New  York,  1928)  and  T.  F.  Hamlin,  The 
American  Spirit  in  Architecture  in  Pageant  of  America,  Vol.  13  (New  Haven, 
1926). 

An  interesting  general  survey  of  the  arts  is  C.  W.  Larkin,  Art  and  Life  in 
America  (1949).  For  the  cultural  life  in  the  South  an  important  survey  is 
Anna  W.  Rutledge,  "Artists  in  the  Life  of  Charleston, . . .  From  Restoration 
to  Reconstruction,"  Trans.  Amer.  Phil.  Soc,  new  series,  Vol.  39,  Pt.  2  (Phila- 
delphia, 1949),  pp.  101-260.  See  also  Virgil  Barker,  American  Painting  (1950). 

Among  much  writing  on  and  collections  of  Folk  Lore  the  most  helpful  are: 
Olin  Downes  and  Elie  Sicgmeister,  A  Treasury  of  American  Song  (1940, 
second  edition,  1943);  Ballads  and  Folk  Songs  of  America,  ed.  John  A.  Lomax 
0933);  John  and  Alan  Lomax,  compilers,  Our  Singing  Country:  A  Second 
Volume  of  American  Ballads  and  Folk  Songs  (1941);  H.  G.  Shearin  and  J.  H. 
Combs,  A  Syllabus  of  Kentucky  Folk  Songs  (Lexington,  Ky.,  191 1);  A 
Treasury  of  Stephen  Foster,  Intro,  by  Deems  Taylor  (1946);  Dorothy  Scar- 
borough, On  the  Trail  of  Negro  Folk-Songs  (Cambridge,  1925);  H.  W.  Odum 
and  Guy  B.  Johnson,  The  Negro  and  His  Songs  (London,  1925).  See  also 
the  footnotes  and  General  Bibliography. 


PART  III 

The  Later  Nineteenth  Century 

chapter   29 
THE  AGE  OF  THE  MONTHLY  MAGAZINE 

Of  the  historical  or  critical  works  especially  concerned  with  the  literature  of 
the  later  nineteenth  century  the  most  useful  is  Fred  L.  Pattee,  A  History  of 
American  Literature  since  1870  (1915,  bib.),  which  must  be  used  in  conjunction 
with  the  earlier  chapters  in  the  same  author's  The  New  American  Literature, 
1890-1930  (1930,  bib.).  The  third  volume  of  Vernon  L.  Parrington,  Main 
Currents  in  American  Thought,  entitled  The  Beginnings  of  Critical  Realism 
in  America,  1860-1920  ([1930],  bib.),  was  never  finished  by  its  author  but 
contains  stimulating  criticism  of  a  number  of  the  major  writers.  Various  books 
of  autobiography  or  reminiscence  by  W.  D.  Howells,  Hamlin  Garland,  and 
T.  W.  Higginson  are  also  illuminating.  The  United  States,  1865-1900,  ed.  Curtis 
W.  Garrison,  3  Vols.  (Fremont,  O.,  1943-45),  surveys  scholarship  on  all  phases 
of  American  history,  including  literature,  but  covers  only  scholarly  works 
produced  from  1941  to  1944.  Interesting  for  suggestions  rather  than  authori- 
tative fact  is  Henry  S.  Commager,  The  American  Mind:  An  Interpretation  of 
American  Thought  and  Character  Since  the  i88o's  (New  Haven,  1950). 

Discussions  of  movements  and  writers  of  the  later  nineteenth  century 
included  in  CHAL  are  usually  outmoded  by  the  corresponding  portions  of 
LHUS.  The  latter  contains  a  useful  general  bibliography  on  "The  Late  Nine- 
teenth Century"  (Vol.  3,  pp.  133-149),  as  well  as  lists  of  works  by  and  about 
the  following  authors  of  the  period:  Adams,  Louisa  Alcott,  Aldrich,  Allen, 
H.  W.  Beecher,  Bellamy,  Bierce,  Boyesen,  Artemus  Ward,  Burroughs,  Cable, 
Clemens,  Crane,  DeForest,  Emily  Dickinson,  Dunbar,  Eggleston,  Fiske, 
Frederic,  Mary  W.  Freeman,  Garland,  George,  Harris,  Harte,  Hay,  Hayne, 
Hearn,  Howells,  James,  Sarah  O.  Jewett,  Lanier,  Lincoln,  Miller,  Muir,  Mary 
N.  Murfree,  Norris,  Page,  Parkman,  Riley,  Saltus,  Stedman,  C.  W.  Stoddard, 
R.  H.  Stoddard,  Mrs.  Stowe,  Timrod,  Whitman,  and  Woodberry.  Jacob 
Blanck  and  his  associates  are  at  work  on  an  extensive  list  of  first  editions  by 
a  very  large  number  of  American  writers.  Meanwhile  Merle  Johnson's 
American  First  Editions,  ed.  Jacob  Blanck  (fourth  edition,  1942),  is  a  handy 
selection.  Also  a  practical  tool  is  Articles  on  American  Literature  Appearing 
in  Current  Periodicals,  1920-194$,  ed.  Lewis  Leary  (Durham,  N.  C,  1947). 
Much  of  the  material  in  both  Blanck  and  Leary  has  been  conflated  in  the 
bibliographies  on  individual  authors  included  in  LHUS. 

For  E.  E.  Hale:  The  Works  of  Edward  Everett  Hale,  Library  Edition,  10 

1045 


io46  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

Vols.  (Boston  [ 1 898-1901  ] ),  and  Edward  E.  Hale,  Jr.,  The  Life  and  Letters  of 
Edward  Everett  Hale,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  191 7),  supply  all  that  is  needed.  For 
Theodore  Winthrop:  The  most  adequate  bibliography  appears  in  Willard  E. 
Martin,  Jr.,  "The  Life  and  Works  of  Theodore  Winthrop,"  unpublished 
doctoral  dissertation,  Duke  University  (1944).  The  Canoe  and  the  Saddle,  with 
Western  letters  and  journals,  ed.  John  H.  Williams  (Tacoma,  Wash.,  191 3), 
provides  little  information.  An  unsatisfactory  sketch  appears  in  The  Life  and 
Poems  of  Theodore  Winthrop,  ed.  Laura  W.  Johnson  (1884).  Likewise 
slender  in  information  is  Ellsworth  Eliot,  Jr.,  Theodore  Winthrop  (New 
Haven,  1938). 

For  examples  of  Civil  War  Verse:  Two  anthologies  better  than  average  may 
be  consulted:  Poetry  Lyrical,  Narrative  and  Satirical  of  the  Civil  War,  ed. 
Richard  G.  White  (1866),  and  War  Poetry  of  the  South,  ed.  William  G. 
Simms  (1867).  Richard  B.  Harwell,  Confederate  Music  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 
[1950])  contains  material  on  the  chief  songs  and  has  a  list  of  sheet  music, 
particularlv  that  published  in  Georgia.  Esther  P.  Ellinger,  The  Southern  War 
Poetry  of  the  Civil  War  (Philadelphia,  19 18,  bib.)  is  largely  an  index.  Nothing 
similar  to  it  has  been  published  for  the  Northern  product.  For  the  war  with 
Spain  an  extensive  anthology  of  undistinguished  newspaper  verse  exists,  Span- 
ish-American War  Songs,  ed.  Sidney  A.  Witherbee   (Detroit,  1898). 

For  H.  H.  Brownell:  See  the  introduction  by  M.  A.  DeWolfe  Howe  in 
Lines  of  Battle  and  Other  Poems  (Boston  and  New  York,  191 2).  For  Henry 
Timrod:  Poems  of  Henry  Timrod,  Memorial  Edition  (Boston  and  New  York, 
1899),  is  augmented  by  The  Uncollected  Poems  of  Henry  Timrod,  ed.  Guy 

A.  Cardwell,  Jr.  (Athens,  Ga.,  1942).  George  A.  Wauchope,  Henry  Timrod 
(Columbia,  S.  C,  191 5)  and  Henry  T.  Thompson,  Henry  Timrod:  Laureate 
of  the  Confederacy  (Columbia,  S.  C,  1928,  bib.)  are  both  inadequate,  especially 
in  view  of  the  recent  appearance  of  new  letters  and  other  material.  For 
criticism,  see  the  forthcoming  study  of  the  literature  of  the  Old  South  by  Jay 

B.  Hubbell.  For  J.  E.  Cooke:  Oscar  Wegelin,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Separate 
Writings  of  John  Esten  Cooke  (Metuchen,  N.  J.,  1925).  The  only  study  of 
consequence  is  John  O.  Beaty,  John  Esten  Cooke,  Virginian  (1922,  bib.). 

For  Abraham  Lincoln:  The  enormous  bibliography  has  been  winnowed  by 
Paul  M.  Angle  in  A  Shelf  of  Lincoln  Books:  A  Critical,  Selective  Bibliography 
of  Lincolniana  (New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  1946).  The  most  inclusive  edition  of 
Lincoln's  writings  is  Complete  Works  of  Abraham  Lincoln,  ed.  John  G. 
Nicolay  and  John  Hay  [and  Francis  D.  Tandy],  12  Vols.  ([1905]).  This  will 
probably  be  outmoded  by  the  edition  now  being  prepared  for  publication  by 
Rutgers  University  Press.  Abraham  Lincoln:  His  Speeches  and  Writings,  ed. 
Roy  P.  Basler  (Cleveland  [1946]),  is  the  best  selection  for  the  use  of  students 
of  literature.  Various  volumes  by  James  G.  Randall  constitute  the  most 
reliable  biography. 

The  arts  other  than  literature  have  received  relatively  inadequate  attention 
at  the  hands  of  historians.  Oliver  W.  Larkin,  Art  and  Life  in  America  (1949, 
bib.)  covers  painting,  architecture,  etc.  of  our  period  in  Book  IV.  A  super- 
ficial yet  suggestive  discussion  of  "Foreign  Influences  in  American  Art,"  by 
Donald  D.  Egbert,  appears  in  a  symposium  entitled  Foreign  Influences  in 
American  Life,  ed.  David  F.  Bowers  (Princeton,  1944,  bib.).  The  aims  of  the 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1047 

new  school  of  wood-engravers  are  discussed  in  Chap.  VIII  of  Frank  Weiten- 
kampf,  American  Graphic  Art  (new  and  rev.  edition,  1924,  bib.).  For  Timothy 
Cole:  The  best  book  is  Alphaeus  Cole  and  Margaret  W.  Cole,  Timothy  Cole: 
Wood-Engraver  (1935). 

For  Painting:  Elizabeth  McCausland,  "A  Selected  Bibliography  on 
American  Painting  and  Sculpture  from  Colonial  Times  to  the  Present," 
Magazine  of  Art,  Vol.  39  (Nov.,  1946),  pp.  329-349;  reprinted  in  Who's  Who 
in  American  Art,  Vol.  4  (Washington,  1947),  pp.  611-653,  *s  an  uncritical 
checklist  but  eliminates  much  trash  from  the  record.  Most  recent  of  the  general 
histories  of  American  painting  is  Virgil  Barker,  American  Tainting  (1950). 
Samuel  Isham,  The  History  of  American  Painting  (rev.  edition,  1927,  bib.; 
reissued,  1936)  treats  our  period  fairly  well  but  is  old-fashioned  in  many  of 
its  judgments.  Among  the  best  individual  books  on  the  five  painters  of  chief 
prominence  are:  Elizabeth  R.  Pennell  and  Joseph  Pennell,  The  Life  of  James 
McNeill  Whistler  (London  and  New  York,  new  and  rev.  edition,  191 1)  and 
The  Whistler  Journal,  ed.  E.  R.  and  J.  Pennell  (Philadelphia,  1921);  Evan  E. 
Charteris,  John  Sargent  (1927);  Lloyd  Goodrich,  Winslow  Homer  (1944, 
bib.);  Lloyd  Goodrich,  Thomas  Eakins:  His  Life  and  Work  (1933,  bib.);  and 
the  sketch  of  A.  P.  Ryder,  by  Lloyd  Goodrich,  in  Albert  P.  Ryder  Centenary 
Exhibition  ([1947]).  For  Mary  Cassatt:  See  Forbes  Watson,  Mary  Cassatt 
( [1932],  bib.).  Information  on  Currier  and  Ives  will  be  found  in  greatest  store 
in  Harry  T.  Peters,  Currier  &  Ives:  Printmakers  to  the  A?nerican  People 
(Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1942). 

For  Sculpture:  See  Miss  McCausland's  bibliography  mentioned  above  and 
Beatrice  G.  Proske,  Brookgreen  Gardens  Sculpture  (Brookgreen,  S.  C,  1943), 
which  contains  brief  sketches  and  useful  bibliographies  of  the  chief  sculptors 
of  our  period,  as  well  as  of  many  more  recent  conservatives.  Lorado  Taft, 
The  History  of  American  Sculpture  (new  edition,  1930,  bib.)  provides  the 
best  general  discussion  available  but  was  written  by  a  sculptor— not  a  critic 
or  historian.  There  are  as  yet  no  first-class  monographs  on  any  of  the  sculptors 
of  the  period.  Margaret  Cresson,  Journey  into  Fame  (Cambridge,  1947,  bib.)  is 
the  product  of  the  enthusiasm  of  French's  daughter;  and  The  Reminiscences  of 
Augustus  Saint-Gaud  ens,  edited  and  amplified  by  Homer  Saint-Gaudens,  2 
Vols.  (191 3),  is  likewise  a  family  affair  but  contains  more  information  on 
its  subject  than  any  other  single  book. 

For  Architecture:  The  general  bibliography  in  Talbot  F.  Hamlin,  Greek 
Revival  Architecture  in  America  (London  and  New  York  [1944])  is  useful 
also  for  our  period.  S.  Fiske  Kimball,  American  Architecture  (Indianapolis  and 
New  York  [1928],  bib.)  is  weak  on  the  Chicago  School  and  needs  to  be 
supplemented  by  Thomas  E.  Tallmadge,  The  Story  of  Architecture  in  America 
(new  and  rev.  edition  [1936])  and  George  H.  Edgell,  The  American 
Architecture  of  To-Day  (New  York  and  London,  1928,  bib.).  In  turn,  these 
two  latter  books  need  to  be  corrected  by  the  first  chapters  in  James  M.  Fitch, 
American  Building:  The  Forces  That  Shape  It  (Boston,  1948)  and  Sigfried 
Giedion,  Space,  Time  and  Architecture  (Cambridge,  1941),  Part  V.  Talbot  F. 
Hamlin,  The  American  Spirit  in  Architecture  (New  Haven,  1926)  is  very 
useful  for  its  numerous  illustrations.  For  H.  H.  Richardson:  See  Henry-Russell 
Hitchcock,  Jr.,  The  Architecture  of  H.  H.  Richardson  and  His  Times  (1936, 


1048  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

bib.).  For  C.  F.  McKim  and  His  Firm:  A  Monograph  of  the  Work  of  McKim, 
Mead  &  White,  1879-1915,  4  Vols.  ([1914-15]),  will  probably  suffice.  For 
Louis  Sullivan:  Hugh  Morrison,  Louis  Sullivan:  Prophet  of  Modern  Archi- 
tecture ([1935],  bib.)  is  standard. 

For  Music:  All  sorts  of  musical  productions  are  discussed  in  John  T. 
Howard,  Our  American  Music:  Three  Hundred  Years  of  It  (3rd  edition, 
rev.  [1946]),  which  contains  the  best  bibliography  of  its  subject.  A  social 
historv  of  American  music  which  deals  particularly  with  popular  compositions 
both  religious  and  secular  is  forthcoming:  Carleton  S.  Smith  and  Raymond 
Kendall,  Music  in  American  Life,  still  awaiting  publication.  A  useful  bib- 
liography of  folk  music  appears  in  Ozark  Folksongs,  collected  and  ed.  Vance 
Randolph,  Vol.  1  (Columbia,  Mo.,  1946).  One  of  the  many  collections  of 
interest  is  American  Ballads  and  Folk  Songs,  compiled  by  John  A.  Lomax  and 
Alan  Lomax  ([1934]),  which  contains  a  bibliography  by  Harold  W. 
Thompson.  The  same  editors  are  responsible  for  . . .  Folksong  U.  S.  A.  ([1947], 
bib.).  Recordings  by  the  Library  of  Congress  are  listed  in  Folk  Music  of  The 
United  States  and  Latin  America:  Combined  Catalogue  of  Phonograph  Records 
(Washington,  1948).  For  H.  W.  Parker:  Isabel  P.  Semler,  Horatio  Parker: 
A  Memoir  for  His  Grandchildren  ([1942])  is  the  only  book.  For  E.  A. 
MacDowell:  Lawrence  Gilman,  Edward  MacDowell:  A  Study  (1906)  is 
better  than  its  several  competitors.  For  Reginald  DeKoven:  His  wife's  opus, 
A  Musician  and  His  Wife  (1926),  is  the  only  work  available.  For  Victor 
Herbert:  Edward  N.  Waters  is  preparing  a  biographical  and  critical  study. 
For  J.  P.  Sousa:  His  autobiography,  Marching  Along  (Boston,  1928),  is 
probably  most  informative.  Scholarship  on  music  of  the  period  leaves  much  to 
be  desired. 

For  the  Booktrade:  A  general  account  of  "Publishing  and  Bookselling, 
1 860- 1 890"  appears  in  Hellmuth  Lehmann-Haupt  and  others,  The  Book  in 
America  (1939),  pp.  159-207,  now  being  revised  for  a  second  edition.  Of 
utmost  importance  is  Raymond  H.  Shove,  Cheap  Book  Production  in  the 
United  States,  1870  to  1891  (Urbana,  111.,  1937,  bib.).  Frank  L.  Mott,  Golden 
Multitudes:  The  Story  of  Best  Sellers  in  the  United  States  (1947,  bib.)  is  to  be 
used  with  caution,  for  exact  figures  on  sales  are  very  hard  to  obtain.  James  D. 
Hart,  The  Popular  Book:  A  History  of  American  Literary  Taste  (1950)  covers 
the  period  1620- 1950  and  emphasizes  social  history.  There  is  no  meritorious 
survey  of  children's  literature  of  the  period.  Elva  S.  Smith,  The  History 
of  Children's  Literature:  A  Syllabus  with  Selected  Bibliographies  (Chicago, 
1937)  includes  many  American  writers.  Jacob  Blanck,  Peter  Parley  to 
Penrod  (1938)  describes  the  first  editions  of  a  few  outstanding  titles.  Herbert 
R.  Mayes,  Alger:  A  Biography  without  a  Hero  (1928)  includes  a  list  of  the 
works  of  Horatio  Alger.  For  Louisa  M.  Alcott:  See  Lucile  Gulliver,  Louisa 
May  Alcott:  A  Bibliography  (Boston,  1932)  and  Madeleine  B.  Stern,  Louisa 
May  Alcott  (Norman,  Okla.,  1950,  bib.).  A  list  of  Dime  Novels  appears  in 
Charles  Bragin,  Dime  Novels,  Bibliography,  1860-1928  (Brooklyn  [1938]). 
A  more  scholarly  bibliography,  plus  biographical  and  other  material,  appears 
in  Albert  Johannsen,  The  House  of  Beadle  and  Adams  and  Its  Dime  and  Nickel 
Novels  (Norman,  Okla.,  1950).  A  number  of  the  old  favorites  have  been 
reprinted  by  the  "Dime  Novel  Club"  of  Brooklyn.  Edmund  Pearson,  Dime 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1049 

Novels:  or,  Following  an  Old  Trail  in  Popular  Literature  (Boston,  1929)  is 
of  slight  value. 

For  Magazines:  The  chief  historian  thus  far  has  been  Frank  L.  Mott,  whose 
survey,  not  yet  completed,  includes  A  History  of  American  Magazines,  Vol.  1, 
1741-1850  (1930),  Vol.  2,  1850-1865,  and  Vol.  3,  1865-1885  (Cambridge,  1938). 
In  the  case  of  certain  periodicals  the  history  is  continued  beyond  the  year  1885. 
James  P.  Wood,  Magazines  in  the  United  States  ([1949],  bib.)  stresses  social 
and  economic  influences  and  covers  also  the  present  century.  A  pleasant  sketch 
of  The  Century  appears  in  the  historical  introduction  prefaced  to  Fruit  Among 
the  Leaves:  An  Anniversary  Anthology ,  ed.  Samuel  C.  Chew  (1950). 

For  Newspapers:  See  Frank  L.  Mott,  American  Journalism:  A  History  of 
Newspapers  in  the  United  States  through  250  Years,  1690-1950  (rev.  edition, 
1950),  Chaps.  XX-XXXV.  This  work  contains  also  brief  commentary  on  a 
number  of  the  important  magazines  of  the  period. 


CHAPTER    30 

DEMOCRACY  IN  FREE  VERSE 

For  T.  W.  Higginson:  Winifred  Mather  and  Eva  G.  Moore,  A  Bibliography 
of  Thofiias  Wentworth  Higginson  (Cambridge,  1906)  is  helpful.  The  Writings 
of  Thomas  Wentworth  Higginson,  7  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  1900), 
omits  his  fiction  and  is  far  from  complete.  Cheerful  Yesterdays  (Boston  and 
New  York,  1898),  Contemporaries  (Boston  and  New  York,  1899),  and  Fart 
of  a  Man's  Life  (Boston  and  New  York,  1905)  contain  autobiography  and 
throw  much  light  on  the  literary  milieu.  The  same  is  true  of  Letters  and 
Journals  of  Thomas  Wentworth  Higginson,  1846-1906,  ed.  Mary  T.  Higginson 
(Boston  and  New  York,  1921).  The  only  lengthy  biography  is  Mary  T. 
Higginson,  Tho?nas  Wentworth  Higginson:  The  Story  of  His  Life  (Boston 
and  New  York,  1914). 

For  Walt  Whitman:  The  selected  bibliographies  at  the  end  of  each  chapter 
of  Gay  W.  Allen,  Walt  Whitman  Handbook  (Chicago,  1946)  will  provide 
the  most  adequate  introduction  for  the  student  struggling  to  encompass  the 
sprawling  Whitman  bibliography.  The  same  author's  Twenty-Five  Years  of 
Walt  Whitman  Bibliography ,  1918-1942  (Boston,  1943)  lists  recently  published 
work  by  or  about  the  poet.  Frank  Shay,  The  Bibliography  of  Walt  Whitman 
(1920)  and  Carolyn  Wells  and  Alfred  F.  Goldsmith,  A  Concise  Bibliography 
of  the  Works  of  Walt  Whitman  (Boston  and  New  York,  1922)  are  inadequate 
and  must  be  supplemented.  Unpublished  manuscripts  are  calendared  in 
numerous  library  or  bookdealers'  bulletins,  such  as  Manuscripts,  Autograph 
Letters,  First  Editions  and  Portraits  of  Walt  Whitman  (Schwartz  Collection), 
Catalogue  No.  4251  of  American  Art  Association-Anderson  Galleries  (1936). 
Ellen  F.  Frey,  Catalogue  of  the  Whitman  Collection . . .  Trent  Collection 
(Durham,  N.  C,  1945)  is  also  valuable  for  material  by  and  about  the  poet. 
Many  manuscripts  are  still  in  private  hands  and  not  listed.  New  York 
University  Index  to  Early  American  Periodical  Literature,  1728-1870.  No.  3. 
Walt   Whitman,   1819-1892,  ed.  Nouvart  Tashjian    (1941),  rounds  up  many 


io5o  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

articles  but  is  incomplete.  The  selected  bibliography  in  Walt  Whitman: 
Representative  Selections,  ed.  Floyd  Stovall  ([1934]),  is  very  sensibly  con- 
densed and  arranged. 

The  Complete  Writings  of  Walt  Whitman,  ed.  Richard  M.  Bucke,  Thomas 
B.  Harned,  and  Horace  Traubel,  10  Vols.  (New  York  and  London  [1902]), 
contains  bibliographical  material  by  Oscar  L.  Triggs  and  is  very  incomplete. 
In  more  recent  years  many  volumes  and  articles  containing  new  material  by 
Whitman  have  been  published,  largely  from  manuscript  or  collected  from 
the  newspapers  and  magazines  to  which  he  contributed.  For  these,  see 
especially  Allen,  Handbook,  pp.  231-233,  and  Miss  Frey's  catalogue  of  the 
Trent  Collection,  pp.  92-99.  The  first  edition  of  Leaves  of  Grass  has  been 
reproduced  twice  and  is  best  seen  in  the  Facsimile  Text  Society's  edition, 
with  an  introduction  by  Clifton  J.  Furness  (1939).  The  1891-92  edition  of 
Leaves  of  Grass  and  Complete  Prose  Works  (1892)  have  been  reprinted  in 
The  Complete  Poetry  and  Prose  of  Walt  Whitman,  2  Vols.  ([1948]),  with 
an  introduction  by  Malcolm  Cowley.  Walt  Whitman:  Complete  Poetry  & 
Selected  Prose  and  Letters,  ed.  Emory  Holloway  (London  [1938]),  containing 
notes  and  some  new  material,  is  the  most  adequate  volume  of  selections.  Its 
selection  of  letters  is  especially  good.  Unfortunately,  it  is  almost  impossible 
to  obtain.  The  standard  edition  of  Leaves  of  Grass  is  the  Inclusive  Edition, 
ed.  Holloway  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1927),  which  prints  also  the  variorum 
readings  compiled  principally  by  Triggs.  The  more  recent  Everyman's  Library 
edition  of  the  Leaves,  ed.  Holloway,  is  sparselv  annotated,  as  are  also  the 
selections  in  Walt  Whitman:  Representative  Selections,  ed.  Stovall.  There  is  A 
Concordance  of  Walt  Whitmans  Leaves  of  Grass  and  Selected  Prose  Writings, 
by  Edwin  H.  Eby,  of  which  only  the  first  two  parts  have  thus  far  appeared 
(Seattle,  1950-     ). 

The  most  generally  useful  biography  is  still  the  rev.  edition  of  Bliss  Perry, 
Walt  Whitman:  His  Life  and  Work  (Boston  and  New  York  [1908]),  though 
much  new  information  has  come  to  light  since.  Emory  Holloway,  Whitman: 
An  Interpretation  in  Narrative  (New  York  and  London,  1926)  is  popular  in 
method  and  uncorroborated  in  its  attribution  of  a  New  Orleans  love  affair 
to  Whitman,  but  must  be  read  for  its  account  of  the  poet's  early  journalistic 
period.  Horace  Traubel,  With  Walt  Whitman  in  Camden,  3  Vols.  (Boston 
and  New  York,  1906-14;  reissued,  New  York,  1 914-15)  is  a  ponderous  col- 
lection of  conversations  revelatory  of  Whitman's  opinions  expressed  in 
1888-89.  It  is  of  great  value  for  the  numerous  letters  and  documents  which 
it  reproduces.  The  index  is  very  incomplete.  There  is  much  new  information 
in  Clara  Barrus,  Whitman  and  Burroughs,  Comrades  (Boston  and  New  York, 
193 1,  bib.)  and  in  various  pamphlets  by  Katherine  Molinoff,  especially  Some 
Notes  on  Whitman's  Family  (Brooklyn,  1941).  Whitman's  medical  history 
is  best  discussed  by  Josiah  C.  Trent,  "Walt  Whitman— A  Case  History," 
Surgery,  Gynecology  and  Obstetrics,  Vol.  87  (July,  1948),  pp.  113-121.  Henry 
B.  Binns,  A  Life  of  Walt  Whitman  (London  [1905])  started  the  legend  of 
Whitman's  Southern  love  affair.  Of  recent  biographies  the  most  rewarding 
is  Henry  S.  Canby,  Walt  Whitman:  An  American  (Boston,  1943,  bib.). 

For  interpretation  and  critical  commentary,  one  would  do  well  to  begin 
with  Allen,  Walt  Whitman  Handbook,  but  the  student  should  be  cautioned 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1051 

that  a  few  studies  analyzed  by  Mr.  Allen  are  not  generally  approved  by  other 
Whitman  specialists.  JoJul  A.  Symonds,  Walt  Whitman:  A  Study  (London, 
1893)  and  John  Burroughs,  Whitman:  A  Study  (Boston  and  New  York,  1896) 
are  still  very  "worthy  of  perusal.  Newton  Arvin,  Whitman  (1938,  bib.)  is  the 
chief  book  on  the  poet's  social  views  but  has  not  covered  all  the  documents 
now  available.  Norman  Foerster,  American  Criticism  (Boston,  1928)  contains 
a  good  chapter  on  Whitman's  critical  doctrines.  Among  other  suggestive 
interpretations  of  shorter  length  are  Stovall's  well-ordered  introduction  to 
his  volume  of  selections;  Francis  O.  Matthiessen,  "Whitman,"  in  American 
Renaissance  ([1941]);  Floyd  Stovall,  "Main  Drifts  in  Whitman's  Poetry," 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  4  (March,  1932),  pp.  3-21;  Harry  B.  Read,  "The  Heraclitan 
Obsession  of  Walt  Whitman,"  Personalist,  Vol.  15  (Spring,  1934),  pp.  125-138; 
Killis  Campbell,  "The  Evolution  of  Whitman  as  Artist,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  6 
(Nov.,  1934),  pp.  254-263;  Henry  A.  Myers,  "Whitman's  Consistency,"  Amer. 
Lit.,  Vol.  8  (Nov.,  1936),  pp.  243-257;  and  a  number  of  articles  mentioned  in 
the  footnotes.  For  a  splendid  criticism  of  free  verse  in  general,  see  John  L. 
Lowes,  Convention  and  Revolt  in  Poetry  (Boston,  19 19),  pp.  226-268.  A 
number  of  critical  articles,  pro  and  con,  are  conveniently  included  in  The 
Inner  Sanctum  Edition  of  The  Poetry  and  Prose  of  Walt  Whitman,  ed.  Louis 
Untermeyer  (1949,  bib.).  Charles  B.  Willard,  Whitmans  American  Fame 
(Providence,  1950)  surveys  the  critical  reaction  in  America  since  1892,  but  is 
incomplete.  Frederik  Schyberg,  Walt  Whitman,  a  translation  of  an  interpre- 
tative study  by  a  Danish  critic,  will  appear  in  1951. 


CHAPTER    31 

NEW  WINE  IN  OLD  BOTTLES 

Brief  bibliographies  for  most  of  the  representative  poets,  as  well  as  for  leading 
figures,  appear  in  Walter  F.  Taylor,  A  History  of  American  Letters  ([1936]); 
likewise  in  Courses  of  Reading  in  American  Literature  with  Bibliographies, 
ed.  Stanley  T.  Williams  and  Nelson  F.  Adkins  (1930).  For  criticism,  see  Fred  L 
Pattee,  A  History  of  A?nerican  Literature  since  1870;  George  F.  Whicher, 
"Poetry  after  the  Civil  War,"  American  Writers  on  American  Literature,  ed. 
John  Macy  ([1931]),  Chap.  XXVII;  and  Alfred  Kreymborg,  Our  Singing 
Strength:  An  Outline  of  American  Poetry,  1620-1930  (1929;  reissued  in  1934 
as  A  History  of  American  Poetry). 

For  T.  B.  Aldrich:  The  Writings  of  Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich,  Ponkapog 
Edition,  9  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  1907),  is  standard.  Lillian  W.  Aldrich, 
Crowding  Memories  (Boston  and  New  York,  1920)  supplements  slightly  Ferris 
Greenslet,  The  Life  of  Thomas  Bailey  Aldrich  (Boston  and  New  York,  1908, 
bib.).  For  E.  C.  Stedman:  The  Poetical  Works  of  Edmund  Clarence  Stedman, 
Household  Edition  (Boston  and  New  York  [1901]),  is  fairly  complete.  Laura 
Stedman  and  George  M.  Gould,  Life  and  Letters  of  Edmund  Clarence  Sted- 
man, 2  Vols.  (1910),  contains  the  most  extensive  list  of  his  works.  For  Stedman 
as  critic,  see  the  works  mentioned  in  footnote  5.  For  Joaquin  Miller:  Joaquin 
Miller's  Poems,  Bear  Edition,  6  Vols.  (San  Francisco,  1909-10),  was  in  191 5 
supplemented    by    another    volume    containing    The    Building    of    the    City 


io52  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

Beautiful.  The  Poetical  Works  of  Joaquin  Miller,  ed.  Stuart  P.  Sherman  (New 
York  and  London,  1923),  is  the  best  selection.  Martin  S.  Peterson,  Joaquin 
Miller:  Literary  Frontiersman  (Stanford  University  [1937],  bib.)  comes  closest 
to  setting  straight  the  biography  but  should  be  checked  with  documents  like 
Joaquin  Miller:  His  California  Diary  [/ #55-57],  ed.  John  S.  Richards  (Seattle, 
1936),  and  "Some  Letters  of  Joaquin  Miller  to  Lord  Houghton,"  ed.  Clarence 
Gohdes,  Mod.  Lang.  Quart.,  Vol.  3  (June,  1942),  pp.  297-306.  For  P.  H. 
Hayne:  Poems  of  Paul  Hamilton  Hayne,  Complete  Edition  (Boston  [1882]), 
is  standard.  In  the  absence  of  a  biography  two  volumes  of  letters,  well  edited, 
are  of  chief  importance:  A  Collection  of  Hayne  Letters,  ed.  Daniel  M.  Mc- 
Keithan  (Austin,  Tex.,  1944),  and  The  Correspondence  of  Bayard  Taylor  and 
Paul  Hamilton  Hayne,  ed.  Charles  Duffy  (Baton  Rouge,  La.,  1945). 

For  Sidney  Lanier:  The  Centennial  Edition  of  the  Works  of  Sidney  Lanier, 
ed.  Charles  R.  Anderson  and  others,  10  Vols.  (Baltimore,  1945),  makes  major 
additions  and  corrections  and  contains  a  thorough  bibliography,  compiled  by 
Philip  Graham  and  Frieda  C.  Thies,  Vol.  6,  pp.  377-412.  Philip  Graham  and 
Joseph  Jones,  A  Concordance  to  the  Poems  of  Sidney  Lanier  (Austin,  Tex., 
1939)  does  not  cover  all  of  Lanier's  verse  now  available.  Of  the  several 
biographies  none  is  better  than  Aubrey  H.  Starke,  Sidney  Lanier:  A  Bio- 
graphical and  Critical  Study  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1933,  bib.). 

For  John  Hay:  Tyler  Dennett,  John  Hay:  From  Poetry  to  Politics  (1933, 
bib.)  has  as  an  appendix  a  short  list  of  Hay's  writings,  compiled  by  William 
E.  Louttit.  The  Complete  Poetical  Works  of  John  Hay  (Boston  and  New 
York,  191 5;  reprinted,  1929)  is  standard.  His  letters  are  sometimes  of  value 
for  the  literary  milieu  and  are  to  be  found  principally  in  the  following:  Letters 
of  John  Hay  and  Extracts  from  Diary,  3  Vols.  (Washington,  1908);  A  Poet  in 
Exile:  Early  Letters  of  John  Hay,  ed.  Caroline  Ticknor  (Boston  and  New 
York,  1 9 10);  William  R.  Thayer,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  John  Hay,  2  Vols. 
(Boston  and  New  York  [1916]).  Sister  Saint  Ignatius  Ward,  The  Poetry  of 
John  Hay  (Washington,  1930,  bib.)  is  the  only  book  on  its  subject.  For  Will 
Carleton:  Farm  Ballads  (New  York  and  London,  new  edition,  1901);  City 
Ballads  (New  York  and  London,  new  edition,  1899);  A.  Elwood  Corning, 
Will  Carleton:  A  Biographical  Study  (191 7);  and  Byron  A.  Finney,  "Will 
Carleton,  Michigan's  Poet,"  Michigan  Hist.  Mag.,  Vol.  1  (Oct.,  191 7), 
pp.  30-43.  For  J.  W.  Riley:  Anthony  J.  Russo  and  Dorothy  R.  Russo,  A 
Bibliography  of  James  Whitcomb  Riley  (Indianapolis,  1944);  James  Whitcomb 
Riley's  Complete  Works,  Memorial  Edition,  10  Vols.  (Indianapolis,  1916); 
Jeannette  C.  Nolan,  James  Whitcomb  Riley,  Hoosier  Poet  ([1941],  bib.). 


CHAPTER    32 

EXPLOITATION  OF  THE  PROVINCES 

There  is  no  good  general  study  of  the  local-color  movement.  Essential  is 
an  understanding  of  the  growth  of  the  sections,  which  can  best  be  obtained 
by  looking  at  maps.  Most  histories  of  the  United  States  carry  a  few,  but  see 
especially  those  in  Charles  O.  Paullin,  Atlas  of  the  Historical  Geography  of  the 
United  States,   ed.   John   K.   Wright    (Washington   and   New   York,    1932). 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1053 

Frederic  L.  Paxson,  History  of  the  American  Frontier •,  176 3- 1893  (Boston  and 
New  York,  1924)  is  invaluable. 

For  Sectional  Speech:  See  Charles  K.  Thomas,  "A  Selected  Regional  Bib- 
liography," An  Introduction  to  the  Phonetics  of  American  English  ([1947]), 
pp.  167-169;  George  P.  Krapp,  The  English  Language  in  America;  Henry  L. 
Mencken,  The  American  Language  plus  its  supplements;  the  publications  based 
upon  or  connected  with  Linguistic  Atlas  of  the  United  States  and  Canada;  and 
the  somewhat  naive  but  nevertheless  useful  Manual  of  American  Dialects  for 
Radio,  Stage,  Screen,  and  Television,  by  Lewis  H.  Herman  and  Marguerite 
S.  Herman  (Chicago  and  New  York  [1947]).  The  foreign  student  especially 
will  need  to  consult  A  Dictionary  of  American  English  on  Historical  Principles 
and  such  specialized  glossaries  as  Harold  Wentworth,  American  Dialect 
Dictio?iary  (1944,  bib.)— to  be  used  with  caution;  and  Ramon  F.  Adams, 
Western  Words:  A  Dictionary  of  the  Range,  Cow  Camp  and  Trail  (Norman, 
Okla.,  1945). 

There  is  no  general  bibliography  of  local-color  fiction  better  than 
"Regionalism  and  Local  Color,"  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  304-325.  Regional  United 
States:  A  Subject  List,  compiled  by  Hannah  Logasa  (Boston,  1942),  is  loaded 
with  works  published  in  the  nineteen-thirties.  Useful  commentary  on  the 
subject  in  general  and  on  specific  authors  will  be  found  in  Fred  L.  Pattee,  A 
History  of  American  Literature  since  1870;  the  same  author's  The  Develop- 
ment of  the  American  Short  Story;  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  American  Fiction, 
especially  Chap.  XVI;  Carl  Van  Doren,  The  American  Novel,  1789-1939, 
especially  Chap.  XI;  and  Edward  J.  O'Brien,  The  Advance  of  the  American 
Short  Story  (rev.  edition,  193 1,  bib.),  Chap.  IX.  Elias  Lieberman,  The 
American  Short  Story:  A  Study  of  the  Influence  of  Locality  in  Its  Develop- 
ment (Ridgewood,  N.  J.,  191 2,  bib.)  is  elementary  but  not  devoid  of  sug- 
gestion. Examples  of  local-color  tales  may  be  found  in  numerous  collections, 
including  the  better- than-average  Century  Readings  in  the  American  Short 
Story,  ed.  Fred  L.  Pattee  (New  York  and  London  [1927]),  and  The  Great 
Modern  American  Stories,  ed.  William  D.  Howells  (1921).  There  is  a  special 
collection  of  singular  utility:  American  Local-Color  Stories,  ed.  Harry  R. 
Warfel  and  G.  Harrison  Orians  ([1941]),  which  contains  a  relatively  un- 
satisfying introduction.  From  the  above-mentioned  books  the  student  can 
obtain  the  names  of  many  local  colorists  not  discussed  in  the  present  history, 
as  he  can  also  from  sectional  literary  histories  like  Alexander  N.  De  Menil, 
The  Literature  of  the  Louisiana  Territory  (St.  Louis,  1904)  and  Dorothy  A. 
Dondore,  The  Prairie  and  the  Making  of  Middle  America  (Cedar  Rapids, 
la.,  1926,  bib.).  The  introductions  to  the  guidebooks  on  the  individual  states 
prepared  under  the  auspices  of  the  WPA  usually  carry  brief  mention  of  local 
writers.  Various  bibliographies  of  the  literature  of  individual  states,  e.g., 
William  R.  Janeway,  A  Selected  List  of  Ohio  Authors  (Columbus,  1933), 
may  prove  helpful  in  locating  names  and  titles;  and  numerous  regional  or 
state  anthologies  offer  examples  of  local-color  work,  for  instance,  Louisiana  in 
the  Short  Story,  ed.  Lizzie  C.  McVoy  (University,  La.,  1940).  The  "City  and 
Country  Reader  Series"  of  anthologies,  published  by  Farrar,  Straus  and  Co., 
includes  volumes  containing  fiction  and  nonfiction  dealing  with  Boston,  New 
York,  San  Francisco,  New  Orleans,  the  Buckeye  Country,  the  Bluegrass  region, 


io54  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

etc.  Most  of  the  local  or  regional  anthologies  of  recent  date  are  filled  with 
twentieth-century  material.  The  same  is  true  of  Otis  W.  Coan  and  Richard 
G.  Lillard,  America  in  Fiction:  An  Annotated  List  of  Novels  (Stanford,  Calif., 
3rd  edition   [1949]  )• 

For  New  England:  There  is  much  discerning  comment  on  various  local 
colorists  submerged  in  the  impressionistic  history  written  by  Van  Wyck 
Brooks,  New  England:  Indian  Summer,  1865-1915.  Babette  M.  Lew,  "Muta- 
tions in  New  England  Local  Color,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  19  (Sept., 
1946),  pp.  338-358,  considers  only  the  work  of  the  female  authors.  The  same 
is  true  of  Francis  O.  Matthiessen,  "New  England  Stories,"  American  Writers 
on  American  Literature,  ed.  John  Macy  ([1937]),  pp.  399-413.  For  Mrs. 
Stowe:  See  p.  1039.  For  H.  W.  Beecher:  Beecher  as  a  Humorist:  Selections 
from  the  "Published  Works  of  Henry  Ward  Beecher,  ed.  Eleanor  Kirk  (1887); 
Paxton  Hibben,  Henry  Ward  Beecher:  An  American  Portrait  ([1927],  bib.); 
Daniel  D.  Addison,  The  Clergy  in  American  Life  and  Letters  (New  York  and 
London,  1900).  For  Rose  T.  Cooke:  Harriet  P.  SpofTord,  "Rose  Terry  Cooke," 
Our  Famous  Women  (Hartford,  1884),  pp.  174-206. 

For  Sarah  O.  Jewett:  Clara  W.  Weber  and  Carl  J.  Weber,  A  Bibliography 
of  the  Published  Writings  of  Sarah  Orne  Jewett  (Waterville,  Me.,  1949) 
contains  also  a  list  of  critical  works.  Stories  and  Tales,  7  Vols.  (Boston  and 
New  York  [1910] );  The  Best  Stories  of  Sarah  Orne  Jewett,  Mayflower  Edition, 
ed.  Willa  Cather,  2  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  1925).  Letters  of  Sarah  Orne 
Jewett,  ed.  Annie  Fields  (Boston  and  New  York,  191 1),  is  supplemented  by 
Letters  of  Sarah  Orne  Jewett  Now  in  the  Colby  College  Library,  ed.  Carl 
J.  Weber  (Waterville,  Me.,  1947),  and  "More  Letters  from  Sarah  Orne 
Jewett,"  Colby  Library  Quart.,  Ser.  II,  No.  12  (Nov.,  1949),  pp.  201-206. 
Francis  O.  Matthiessen,  Sarah  Orne  Jewett  (Boston  and  New  York,  1929) 
contains  a  short  bibliographical  note  and  is  the  only  extensive  biographical  and 
critical  study  now  in  print. 

For  Mary  W.  Freeman:  The  Best  Stories  of  Mary  E.  Wilkins,  ed.  Henry 
W.  Lanier  (New  York  and  London,  1927),  could  easily  be  bettered  by  a 
much-needed  new  selection.  Fred  L.  Pattee,  "On  the  Terminal  Moraine  of  New 
England  Puritanism,"  Side-Lights  on  American  Literature  (1922),  pp.  175-209, 
appears  also  as  introduction  to  an  edition  of  A  New  England  Nun  and  Other 
Stories  (New  York  and  London  [1920]).  Edward  R.  Foster  in  1935  completed 
an  unpublished  dissertation  at  Harvard  which  is  at  once  a  critical  and  bio- 
graphical study.  For  Sarah  Pratt:  See  the  introduction  by  Emma  E.  Brown 
in  Cape  Cod  Folks  (Boston,  1904). 

t  For  the  Far  West:  The  emotional  and  imaginative  attitudes  toward  the 
Great  Plains  and  the  Rocky  Mountains  as  revealed  in  literature  are  best  treated 
by  Henry  N.  Smith,  Virgin  Land:  The  Impact  of  the  West  on  Nineteenth- 
Century  American  Thought  (Cambridge,  1950).  The  social  history  of 
Oregon,  Washington,  and  Idaho  is  well  set  forth  in  Oscar  O.  Winther,  The 
Great  Northwest:  A  History  (1947,  bib.).  The  same  region  is  treated  in  Sidney 
Warren,  Farthest  Frontier  (1949,  bib.),  which  contains  the  best  history  of 
early  journalism  and  literature  produced  in  the  Pacific  Northwest.  That  of 
Colorado  and  adjoining  states  may  be  found  in  works  listed  in  the  descriptive 
bibliographies  included  in  The  Literature  of  the  Rocky  Mountain  West,  1S03- 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1055 

1903,  an  anthology,  ed.  Levette  J.  Davidson  and  Prudence  Bostwick  (Caldwell, 
Ida.,  1939).  Robert  E.  Cowan  and  Robert  G.  Cowan,  A  Bibliography  of  the 
History  of  California,  1510-1930  (San  Francisco,  1933)  lists  also  books  pub- 
lished in  California.  Franklin  Walker,  San  Francisco's  Literary  Frontier  (1939, 
bib.)  covers  that  city  from  1848  to  1875,  with  emphasis  on  the  sixties. 

For  G.  H.  Derby:  George  R.  Stewart,  Jr.,  John  Phoenix,  esq.,  the  Veritable 
Sqaibob:  A  Life  of  Captain  George  H.  Derby,  U.  S.  A.  ([1937],  bib.)  is 
excellent.  For  Samuel  Bowles:  George  S.  Merriam,  The  Life  and  Times  of 
Samuel  Bowles,  2  Vols.  (1885),  needs  revision.   . 

For  Bret  Harte:  Bret  Harte:  Bibliography  and  Biographical  Data,  ed. 
Joseph  Gaer,  California  Literary  Research  SERA  mimeographed  publication 
( [1935] ) ;  George  R.  Stewart,  Jr.,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  Bret 
Harte  in  the  Magazines  and  Newspapers  of  California,  18 $7-1871  (Berkeley, 
1933);  Nathan  Van  Patten,  Concerning  "Condensed  Novels"  (Stanford 
University,  1929);  Clarence  Gohdes,  "A  Check-List  of  Bret  Harte's  Works 
in  Book  Form  Published  in  the  British  Isles,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  18  (May- Aug., 
Sept.-Dec,  1943),  pp.  19,  36-39.  The  selected  bibliography  in  Bret  Harte: 
Representative  Selections,  ed.  Joseph  B.  Harrison  ([1941]),  is  the  place  to  look 
for  critical  or  scholarly  studies.  The  Writings  of  Bret  Harte,  Standard  Library 
Edition,  20  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  1 896-1 914),  contains  in  Vol,  19  a 
glossary  and  an  index  of  characters.  The  Letters  of  Bret  Harte,  ed.  Geoffrey 
B.  Harte  (Boston  and  New  York,  1926),  has  been  supplemented  by  a  few 
other  epistles  printed  chiefly  in  magazine  articles.  George  R.  Stewart,  Jr., 
Bret  Harte:  Argonaut  and  Exile  (Boston  and  New  York,  193 1,  bib.)  is  the 
standard  biography. 

For  Mary  H.  Foote:  Levette  J.  Davidson,  "Letters  from  Authors,"  Colorado 
Magazine,  Vol.  19  (July,  1942),  pp.  122-126,  contains  two  autobiographical 
letters,  one  of  them  of  major  importance. 

For  the  Middle  West:  There  is  no  study  corresponding  to  Ralph  L.  Rusk's 
treatment  of  the  area  up  to  1840.  Henry  N.  Smith,  Virgin  Land  is  invaluable 
for  attitudes  toward  the  Middle  West.  For  Edward  Eggleston:  William  P. 
Randel,  Edward  Eggleston:  Author  of  The  Hoosier  School-Master  (1946, 
bib.)  and  Meredith  Nicholson,  The  Hoosier s  (1900).  Biographical  sketches  ap- 
pear in  Indiana  Authors  and  Their  Books,  1816-1916,  compiled  by  R.  E.  Banta 
(Crawfordsville,  Ind.,  1949).  For  E.  W.  Howe:  His  Plain  People  (1929)  con- 
tains personal  recollections.  Ruth  E.  Brune  in  1949  completed  a  dissertation 
at  Colorado  on  his  early  life.  Ima  H.  Herron,  The  Small  Town  in  American 
Literature  (Durham,  N.  C,  1939,  bib.),  pp.  208-216,  deals  with  Howe.  For 
Joseph  Kirkland:  John  T.  Flanagan,  "Joseph  Kirkland,  Pioneer  Realist," 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  11  (Nov.,  1939),  pp.  273-284,  is  the  best  account  thus  far. 
Clayton  A.  Haladay  is  preparing  for  publication  his  dissertation  on  Kirkland 
completed  at  Indiana  University  in  1949. 

For  Hamlin  Garland:  No  good  collected  edition  exists.  For  his  biography, 
see  his  several  autobiographical  volumes.  Eldon  C.  Hill  is  at  work  on  a  bio- 
graphical and  critical  study.  Everett  Dick,  The  Sod-House  Frontier,  18 $4- 
1890  (New  York  and  London,  1937,  bib.)  gives  a  full  picture  of  the  hardships 
of  farmers  on  the  plains  of  Kansas,  Nebraska,  and  the  Dakotas. 

For  the  South:  The  best  work  on  the  social  as  well  as  the  political  history 


io56  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

of  the  section  is  A  History  of  the  South,  10  Vols.,  ed.  Wendell  H.  Stephenson 
and  E.  Merton  Coulter,  published  by  the  Louisiana  State  University  Press 
(1947—).  It  includes  for  our  period  Vol.  7,  E.  Merton  Coulter,  The  Confederate 
States  of  America,  1861-1865;  Vol.  8,  E.  Merton  Coulter,  The  South  during 
Reconstruction;  and  Vol.  9,  C.  Vann  Woodward,  Origins  of  the  New  South, 
l%ll~l9l3-  Literature  and  journalism  are  discussed  in  connection  with  other 
cultural  developments. 

The  bibliographies  in  Southern  Prose  Writers:  Representative  Selections, 
ed.  Gregory  Paine  ([1947]),  deal  with  Southern  prose  in  general  and  include 
lists  of  works  on  individual  authors  like  Allen,  Cable,  Miss  King,  Miss  Murfree, 
and  Page.  C.  E.  Collins,  "Nineteenth  Century  Fiction  of  the  Southern 
Appalachians,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  17  (Sept.-Dec,  1942,  Jan.-April,  1943),  pp. 
186-190,  215-217,  will  reveal  the  amazing  quantity  of  fiction  concerned  with 
the  area.  Library  of  Southern  Literature,  ed.  Edwin  A.  Alderman  et  al.,  17  Vols. 
(Atlanta,  1907-23,  bib.),  is  of  limited  value  but  offers  examples  of  the  works 
of  many  authors.  William  M.  Baskervill,  Southern  Writers:  Biographical  and 
Critical  Studies,  2  Vols.  (Nashville,  1897,  and  Dallas,  1903)  includes  uneven 
discussions  of  various  local  colorists.  John  H.  Nelson,  The  Negro  Character  in 
American  Literature  (Lawrence,  Kans.,  1926),  Chaps.  VII-IX,  treats  Page, 
Harris,  and  others.  Francis  P.  Gaines,  The  Southern  Plantation:  A  Study  in 
the  Development  and  the  Accuracy  of  a  Tradition  (1924,  bib.)  is  important 
for  the  background  of  Harris,  Page,  and  other  delineators  of  plantation  life. 
Paul  H.  Buck,  The  Road  to  Reunion  (Boston,  1937)  demonstrates  the  im- 
portance of  literature  in  healing  the  breach  between  North  and  South  and 
contains  bibliographical  footnotes. 

For  Constance  F.  Woolson:  John  D.  Kern,  Constance  Fenimore  Woolson: 
Literary  Pioneer  (Philadelphia,  1934,  bib.)  is  supplemented  by  Jay  B.  Hubbell, 
"Some  New  Letters  of  Constance  Fenimore  Woolson,"  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  14  (Dec,  1941),  pp.  715-735;  Lyon  N.  Richardson,  "Constance  Fenimore 
Woolson,  'Novelist  Laureate'  of  America,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  39 
(Jan.,  1940),  pp.  18-36;  and  Fred  L.  Pattee,  "Constance  Fenimore  Woolson 
and  the  South,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  38  (April,  1939),  pp.  130-141. 
For  R.  M.  Johnston:  Edmund  C.  Stedman  and  Stephen  B.  Weeks,  "Literary 
Estimate  and  Bibliography  of  Richard  Malcolm  Johnston,"  Pub.  of  the  South. 
Hist.  Assoc,  Vol.  2  (Oct.,  1898),  pp.  315-327,  and  Francis  T.  Long,  "The 
Life  of  Richard  Malcolm  Johnston  in  Maryland,  1867- 1898,"  Maryland  Hist. 
Mag.,  Vol.  34  (Dec,  1939),  pp.  305-324;  Vol.  35  (Sept.,  1940),  pp.  270-286; 
Vol.  36  (March,   1941),  pp.  54-69,  represent  the  chief  studies. 

For  G.  W.  Cable:  Old  Creole  Days,  with  an  introduction  by  Lucy  L.  C. 
Bikle  (1937).  Lucy  L.  C.  Bikle,  George  W.  Cable:  His  Life  and  Letters  (New 
York  and  London,  1928,  bib.)  is  standard  but  will  probably  be  succeeded  by 
a  biography  now  being  written  by  Arlin  Turner.  Lafcadio  Hearn,  "The 
Scenes  of  Cable's  Romances,"  Century  Magazine,  Vol.  27  (Nov.,  1883),  pp. 
40-47,  and  Edward  L.  Tinker,  "Cable  and  the  Creoles,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  5 
(Jan.,  1934),  pp.  313-326,  are  illuminating  articles.  For  Grace  E.  King: 
Bess  Vaughan,  kkA  Bio-Bibliography  of  Grace  Elizabeth  King,"  Louisiana 
Hist.  Quart.,  Vol.  17  (Oct.,  1934),  pp.  752-770,  offers  essential  information. 
The  contents  of  her  books  are  described  by  Lizzie  C.  McVoy  and  Ruth  B. 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1057 

Campbell,  A  Bibliography  of  Fiction  by  Louisianians  and  on  Louisiana  Sub- 
jects [Baton  Rouge,  La.,  1935],  pp.  44-45.  Grace  King,  Memories  of  a  Southern 
Woman  of  Letters  (1932)  is  an  autobiography.  For  Kate  Chopin:  Daniel  S. 
Rankin,  Kate  Chopin  and  Her  Creole  Stories  (Philadelphia,  1932,  bib.)  is  the 
only  book. 

For  J.  C.  Harris:  The  March,  1929,  number  of  the  Emory  University 
Alumnus  is  devoted  to  Harris  and  contains  a  bibliography  by  H.  Prentice 
Miller  (Vol.  5,  pp.  13-14,  22).  Seven  Tales  of  Uncle  Remus,  ed.  Thomas  H. 
English  (Emory  University,  Ga.,  1948),  contains  uncollected  stories  and  a 
description  of  the  Harris  Memorial  Collection.  Emory  Sources  and  Reprints, 
Ser.  Ill,  contains  an  unfinished  novel  called  Qua,  with  a  full  introduction  by 
Mr.  English.  Julia  C.  Harris,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  Joel  Chandler  Harris 
(Boston  and  New  York,  191 8,  bib.)  is  the  best  biography.  Robert  L.  Wiggins, 
The  Life  of  Joel  Chandler  Harris  (Nashville,  191 8)  is  useful  for  its  effort  to 
round  up  Harris's  early  literary  ventures.  Ruth  I.  Cline,  "The  Tar-Baby  Story," 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  2  (March,  1930),  pp.  72-78,  and  Louise  Dauner,  "Myth  and 
Humor  in  the  Uncle  Remus  Fables,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  20  (May,  1948),  pp. 
129-143,  are  among  the  better  articles,  as  are  also  several  by  Thomas  H.  English. 

For  Mary  N.  Murfree:  Edd  W.  Parks,  Charles  Egbert  Craddock  (Chapel 
Hill,  N.  C.  [1941],  bib.)  is  the  only  book.  For  F.  Hopkinson  Smith:  The 
Novels,  Stories  and  Sketches  of  F.  Hopkinson  Smith,  Beacon  Edition,  23  Vols. 
(1904-15).  Theodore  Hornberger,  "Painters  and  Painting  in  the  Writings  of 
F.  Hopkinson  Smith,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  16  (March,  1944),  pp.  1-10,  is  one  of 
the  few  sound  articles  on  Smith.  For  H.  S.  Edwards:  There  is  nothing  of 
consequence  in  print.  For  P.  L.  Dunbar:  Virginia  Cunningham,  Paul  Laurence 
Dunbar  and  His  Song  (1947,  bib.)  is  adequate  for  most  purposes.  Vernon 
Loggins,  The  Negro  Author:  His  Development  in  America  (1931,  bib.)  dis- 
cusses Dunbar  and  all  the  other  important  Negro  authors  of  the  period.  For 
James  Lane  Allen:  John  W.  Townsend,  James  Lane  Allen:  A  Personal  Note 
(Louisville,  1928,  bib.)  contains  many  letters,  but  Grant  C.  Knight,  James 
Lane  Allen  and  the  Genteel  Tradition  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1935,  bib.)  is  in 
many  ways  preferable  both  as  biography  and  criticism. 

CHAPTER    33 

REALISM  FOR  THE  MIDDLE  CLASS 

Little  has  been  written  on  the  theory  of  fiction  held  by  the  minor  novelists  of 
the  period.  Some  help  may  be  obtained  from  the  survey  of  ideas  anent  "The 
Great  American  Novel,"  by  Herbert  R.  Brown,  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  7  (March, 
J935)>  PP-  i-.H-  For  Rebecca  H.  Davis:  Her  autobiography,  Bits  of  Gossip 
(Boston  and  New  York,  1904),  is  not  very  informative.  A  doctoral  dissertation 
on  Mrs.  Davis,  completed  by  Helen  W.  Sheaffer  at  Pennsylvania  in  1948, 
will  eventually  appear  in  print.  For  J.  W.  DeForest:  James  H.  Croushorei 
author  of  an  unpublished  dissertation  on  the  novelist's  career  up  to  1868  (Yale, 
1943),  offers  biographical  information  in  the  editorial  matter  contained  in 
A  Volunteer's  Adventures  (New  Haven,  1946)  and  in  A  Union  Officer  in 
the  Reconstruction  (New  Haven,  1948),  the  former  a  collection  of  DeForest's 


io58  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

descriptions  of  his  war  experiences  and  the  latter  a  series  of  penetrating  papers 
on  the  South  during  Reconstruction.  Arthur  H.  Quinn  devotes  Chap.  IX  of 
American  Fiction  to  "The  Transition  to  Realism"  and  includes  the  most 
complete  analysis  of  DeForest's  novels,  on  pp.  166-174.  The  reprint  of  Miss 
RaveneVs  Conversion  (1939)  has  an  introduction  by  Gordon  S.  Haight. 

For  W.  D.  Howells:  William  M.  Gibson  and  George  Arms,  A  Bibliography 
of  William  Dean  Howells  (1948)  is  an  admirable  listing  of  his  books  and 
magazine  contributions.  The  selected  bibliography  in  William  Dean  Howells: 
Representative  Selections,  ed.  Clara  M.  Kirk  and  Rudolph  Kirk  ([1950]),  is 
the  most  useful  thing  of  its  sort.  There  is  no  collected  edition  of  his  works, 
though  an  abortive  one  was  once  started.  Only  a  few  of  his  novels  are  in  print, 
such  as  The  Rise  of  Silas  Lapham,  of  which  one  of  the  better  editions  is  in  the 
Oxford  University  Press  World's  Classics  (New  York  and  London,  1948),  with 
an  introduction  by  Howard  M.  Jones.  In  lieu  of  a  biography  his  various  auto- 
biographical works  and  his  letters,  collected  in  Life  in  Letters  of  William  Dean 
Howells,  ed.  Mildred  Howells,  2  Vols.  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1928,  bib.),  are 
of  unusual  value.  Many  letters  remain  unprinted,  the  manuscripts  for  the  most 
part  being  in  the  Houghton  Library  at  Harvard.  Frederic  C.  Marston,  Jr., 
has  completed  a  dissertation  on  Howells's  biography  up  to  1871  (Brown 
University,   1944)  which  will  be  embodied  in  a  fuller  study. 

Of  the  several  books  on  Howells  the  best  as  criticism  is  Oscar  W.  Firkins, 
William  Dean  Howells:  A  Study  (Cambridge,  1924,  bib.),  although  Delmar 
G.  Cooke,  William  Dean  Howells:  A  Critical  Study  ([1922],  bib.)  is  of 
occasional  suggestiveness.  Among  unpublished  doctoral  theses  on  Howells  are 
a  number  of  studies  of  his  technique,  rarely  any  better  than  Susanne  Konigs- 
berger,  Die  Romantechnik  von  William  Dean  Howells  (Diisseldorf,  1933). 
Forthcoming  is  a  study  of  Howells  and  Italy,  by  James  Woodress.  Scholarly 
articles  of  value  include  a  number  by  George  W.  Arms;  Herbert  Edwards, 
"Howells  and  the  Controversy  over  Realism  in  American  Fiction,"  Amer. 
Lit.,  Vol.  3  (Nov.,  193 1 ),  pp.  237-248;  and  William  M.  Gibson,  "Materials  and 
Form  in  Howells's  First  Novels,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  19  (May,  1947),  pp.  158-166. 
The  first  chapter  of  Alfred  Kazin,  On  Native  Grounds  puts  Howells  in  proper 
place  in  "The  Opening  Struggle  for  Realism,"  and  Quinn,  in  Chap.  XIII  of 
American  Fiction,  analyzes  more  of  his  novels  than  does  anyone  else  in  such 
short  space. 

CHAPTER    34 

ESCAPE  FROM  THE  COMMONPLACE 

The  list  of  books  by  "Travellers  and  Explorers,  1846-1900"  in  CHAL,  Vol. 
4,  pp.  681-728,  is  far  from  complete  but  is  illustrative.  Likewise,  the  bibliog- 
raphy  of  travel  literature  in  LHUS,  Vol.  3,  pp.  356-367.  Very  little  has  been 
written  about  travel  books  on  foreign  countries  composed  by  Americans  dur- 
ing the  later  decades  of  the  century.  Anna  M.  Babey,  Americans  in  Russia, 
1776-1917  ( [938,  bib.)  is  unsatisfying,  and  R.  B.  Mowat,  Americans  in  England 
([Boston],  1935)  's  relatively  weak  on  our  period.  John  Ashmead,  Jr.,  has 
announced  a  dissertation  at  Harvard  treating  travel  literature  written  by 
Americans  about  Japan  since   1853. 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1059 

For  J.  L.  Stephens:  The  most  generally  useful  study  is  Victor  W.  Von 
Hagen,  Maya  Explorer:  John  Lloyd  Stephens  and  the  Lost  Cities  of  Central 
America  and  Yucatan  (Norman,  Okla.,  1947,  bib.).  For  C.  W.  Stoddard: 
South-Sea  Idyls  has  several  times  been  reprinted,  for  example  (1921).  The 
only  extensive  study  is  Carl  Stroven,  "A  Life  of  Charles  Warren  Stoddard," 
unpublished  dissertation,  Duke  University  (1939). 

For  C.  E.  Norton:  Letters  of  Charles  Eliot  Norton,  ed.  Sara  Norton  and 
M.  A.  De  Wolfe  Howe,  2  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  191 3,  bib.)  is  the 
only  work  of  consequence. 

For  F.  M.  Crawford:  The  Complete  Works,  32  Vols.  (1882-1904)  is  as  good 
as  any  edition.  Maud  H.  Elliott,  My  Cousin,  F.  Marion  Crawford  (1934)  leaves 
much  to  be  desired.  An  enthusiastic  account  of  Crawford's  works  appears  in 
Arthur  H.  Quinn,  American  Fiction,  Chap.  XVIII,  "Francis  Marion  Crawford 
and  the  Cosmopolitan  Novel." 

For  Lafcadio  Hearn:  Percival  D.  Perkins  and  lone  Perkins,  Lafcadio  Hearn: 
A  Bibliography  (Tokyo,  Boston  and  New  York,  1934)  is  standard.  The 
Writings  of  Lafcadio  Hearn,  16  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  1923)  is  by  no 
means  complete  and  includes  Elizabeth  Bisland,  The  Life  and  Letters  of 
Lafcadio  Hearn,  2  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  1906).  Many  more  letters 
appear  in  scattered  volumes,  for  which  see  principally  the  Perkins  bibliography. 
The  Selected  Writings  of  Lafcadio  Hearn,  ed.  Henry  Goodman  ([1949]), 
contains  Chita  and  other  choicer  specimens.  Vera  S.  McWilliams,  Lafcadio 
Hearn  (Boston  [1946],  bib.)  is  popular  but  ranks  as  the  most  satisfactory  of 
the  several  existing  biographies. 

For  Henry  James:  Le  Roy  Phillips,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of 
Henry  ]ames  (1930)  is  excellent,  as  is  also  the  list  of  works  on  James  compiled 
by  Lyon  N.  Richardson  in  Henry  James:  Representative  Selections  ([1941]). 
Eunice  C.  Hamilton,  "Biographical  and  Critical  Studies  of  Henry  James, 
1941-1948,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  20  (Jan.,  1949),  pp.  424-435,  continues  on  from 
Richardson  and  adds  certain  items  not  listed  by  him,  including  a  number  of 
manuscript  doctoral  dissertations.  Addenda,  by  Viola  R.  Dunbar,  appear  in 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  22  (March,  1950),  pp.  56-61.  See  also  B.  R.  McElderry,  Jr., 
"The  Uncollected  Stories  of  Henry  James,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  21  (Nov.,  1949), 
pp.  279-291,  and  Alfred  R.  Ferguson,  "Some  Bibliographical  Notes  on  the 
Short  Stories  of  Henry  James,"  A?ner.  Lit.,  Vol.  21  (Nov.,  1949),  pp.  292-297. 

The  standard  set  of  his  fiction  is  The  Novels  and  Tales  of  Henry  James, 
New  York  Edition,  26  Vols.  (1907-17;  reissued,  1922),  which  contains  much- 
revised  texts  of  selected  earlier  works,  all  of  the  later  narratives  of  consequence, 
and  new  Prefaces.  More  inclusive  is  The  Novels  and  Stories  of  Henry  James, 
35  Vols.  (London,  new  and  complete  edition,  1921-23).  Some  uncollected  items 
appear  in  Travelling  Companions,  ed.  Albert  Mordell  (191 9)  and  in  Eight 
Uncollected  Tales  of  Henry  ]ames,  ed.  Edna  Kenton  (New  Brunswick,  N.  J., 
1950).  Lately,  a  goodly  number  of  his  works  have  been  reprinted,  and  various 
anthologies  have  appeared,  for  example,  The  Short  Stories  of  Henry  James, 
ed.  Clifton  Fadiman  ([1945]).  The  Complete  Plays  of  Henry  James  (Phila- 
delphia, 1949)  has  a  noteworthy  introduction  by  the  editor,  Leon  Edel.  Most 
valuable  of  the  new  material  recently  brought  into  print  is  The  Notebooks  of 
Henry  James,  ed.  Francis  O.  Matthiessen  and  Kenneth  B.  Murdock  (1947). 


io6o  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

This  is  of  utmost  importance  for  the  study  of  the  inception  of  the  narratives 
written  after  1878  and  contains  in  an  appendix  James's  preliminary  synopsis  of 
The  Ambassadors. 

The  chief  collection  of  letters  is  The  Letters  of  Henry  James,  ed.  Percy 
Lubbock,  2  Vols.  (New  York  and  London,  1920),  though  many  others  have 
appeared  elsewhere,  for  example,  in  Theatre  and  Friendship:  Some  Henry 
]ames  Letters,  ed.  Elizabeth  Robins  (1932). 

There  is  no  sound  biography  of  consequence.  C.  Hartley  Grattan  includes 
a  neat  sketch  in  The  Three  Jameses:  A  Family  of  Minds  (1932,  bib.),  and 
Pelham  Edgar,  Henry  James:  Man  and  Author  (London  and  Boston,  1927)  is 
of  use,  as  are  also  the  following  autobiographical  works:  A  Small  Boy  and 
Others  (1913),  Notes  of  a  Son  a?id  Brother  (1914),  and  the  incomplete  account 
of  The  Middle  Years  (New  York  and  London,  191 7).  Ralph  B.  Perry  gives 
much  fresh  material,  including  letters,  in  The  Thought  and  Character  of 
William  James,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1935,  bib.),  as  does  also  Francis  O.  Matthiessen 
in  The  James  Family:  Including  Selections  from  the  Writings  of  Henry 
James,  Senior,  William,  Henry,  &  Alice  James  (1947).  The  Legend  of  the 
Master,  ed.  Simon  Nowell-Smith  (1948),  is  an  entertaining  and  intelligently 
conceived  anthology  of  anecdotes  about  and  descriptions  of  James.  The  chief 
facts  concerning  James's  stay  in  England  are  reviewed  in  Robert  C.  LeClair, 
Three  American  Travellers  in  England:  James  Russell  Lowell,  Henry  Adams, 
Henry  James  (Philadelphia,  1945,  bib.).  Mr.  LeClair  has  completed  a  study  of 
Young  Henry  James,  which  at  present  writing  awaits  publication.  A  forth- 
coming biographical  study  by  Leon  Edel  will  also  be  of  considerable 
importance. 

A  number  of  the  older  critical  essays  on  James  are  reprinted  in  The  Question 
of  Henry  James,  ed.  Frederick  W.  Dupee  ([1945]),  which  reproduces  also 
Richardson's  bibliography.  Several  essays  on  James,  e.g.,  by  Howells  and  T. 
S.  Eliot,  are  reprinted  in  The  Shock  of  Recognition,  ed.  Edmund  Wilson 
(1943).  Richard  N.  Foley  considers  Criticism  in  A?nerican  Periodicals  of  the 
Works  of  Henry  James  from  1866  to  1916  (Washington,  1944,  bib.).  Francis 
O.  Matthiessen,  Henry  James:  The  Major  Phase  (London  and  New  York, 
1944)  deals  chiefly  with  the  later  novels;  and  Morris  Roberts,  Henry  James's 
Criticism  (Cambridge,  1929,  bib.)  .is  confined  to  one  of  James's  sidelines,  as 
is  also  Leon  Edel,  Henry  James:  Les  Annees  Dramatiques  (Paris,  193 1,  bib.). 
Cornelia  P.  Kelley,  The  Early  Development  of  Henry  James  (Urbana,  111., 
1930,  bib.)  is  an  especially  able  study,  covering  James's  work  of  all  sorts  from 
1864  to  1 88 1.  The  chapter  on  James  in  Ernest  A.  Baker,  The  History  of  the 
English  Novel  (London,  n.d.),  Vol.  9,  pp.  243-287,  and  the  introduction  to 
Richardson's  little  volume  of  selections  provide  two  starting  points  for  a 
beginner.  The  next  step  is  a  perusal  of  Joseph  W.  Beach,  The  Method  of 
Henry  James  (New  Haven  and  London,  191 8,  bib.).  Elizabeth  Stevenson,  The 
Crooked  Corridor  (1949,  bib.)  provides  in  Part  VI  a  discussion  of  various 
techniques  employed  by  James  and  is  more  concrete  than  many  similar  studies. 
Among  more  recent  critical  discussions  the  two  chapters  on  James  in  F.  R. 
Leavis,  The  Great  Tradition  ([1949] )  appear  to  be  more  rewarding  than  most. 
Students  are  now  very  busy  on  James  and  one  needs  to  keep  up  with  the 
articles  listed  quarterly  in  American  Literature. 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1061 

CHAPTER    35 
MIRTH  FOR  THE  MILLION 

The  selected  bibliography  in  Walter  Blair,  Native  American  Humor,  1800- 
1900  ([1937])  is  the  most  generally  useful.  The  long  introduction  to  the  same 
is  a  valuable  survey  of  the  mutations  of  "humorous  treatments  of  American 
character,"  a  subject  discussed  more  popularly  by  Constance  M.  Rourke, 
American  Humor:  A  Study  of  the  National  Character  ( [1931] ).  More 
scholarly  than  Blair,  Horse  Sense  in  American  Humor:  From  Benjamin 
Franklin  to  Ogden  Nash  (Chicago  [1942],  bib.)  is  Jennette  R.  Tandy,  Cracker- 
box  Philosophers  in  American  Humor  and  Satire  (1925,  bib.).  Frank  L.  Mott, 
American  ]ournalism:  A  History  of  Newspapers  in  the  United  States  through 
250  Years,  1690-1950  (rev.  edition,  1950)  briefly  mentions  outstanding  humor- 
ists and  columnists.  See  also  Mott's  article,  "Fifty  Years  of  'Life':  The  Story  of 
a  Satirical  Weekly,"  Journalism  Quart.,  Vol.  25  (Sept.,  1948),  pp.  224-232. 

Among  the  various  specialized  anthologies  compiled  by  abler  students  are: 
Humor  of  the  Old  Deep  South,  ed.  Arthur  P.  Hudson  (1936);  Tall  Tales  of 
the  Southwest,  ed.  Franklin  J.  Meine  (1930);  Tall  Tales  of  Arkansaw,  ed. 
James  R.  Masterson  (Boston  [1943],  bib.);  and  Jonathan  Draws  the  Long  Bow, 
ed.  Richard  M.  Dorson  (Cambridge,  1946).  These  will  illustrate  the  tradition 
out  of  which  Clemens  grew.  Mody  C.  Boatright,  Folk  Laughter  on  The 
American  Frontier  (1949)  is  both  an  anthology  and  an  analysis  of  one  brand 
of  our  humor. 

Few  of  the  minor  humorists  have  had  books  written  about  them.  Frank  W. 
Nye,  Bill  Nye:  His  Own  Life  Story  (1926)  is  thin  but  better  than  the  lucubra- 
tions of  Cyril  Clemens  such  as  Petroleum  Vesuvius  Nasby  (Webster  Groves, 
Mo.,  1936).  For  Eugene  Field:  The  nearest  to  a  bibliography  is  Verse  and 
Prose  by  Eugene  Field,  ed.  Henry  H.  Harper  (Boston,  191 7),  pp.  47-60.  The 
Writings  in  Prose  and  Verse  of  Eugene  Field,  12  Vols.  (1 889-1 901),  was 
reissued  in  1903-4  and  again  in  191 1.  Slason  Thompson,  Life  of  Eugene  Field 
(New  York  and  London,  1927)  should  be  used  in  connection  with  the  same 
author's  earlier  and  more  extensive  work  and  with  Charles  H.  Dennis,  Eugene 
Field's  Creative  Years  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1924).  For  Artemus  Ward:  Don 
C.  Seitz,  Arte?nus  Ward  (Charles  Farrar  Browne)  (New  York  and  London 
[191 9])  is  both  bibliography  and  biography,  but  none  too  good.  The  Complete 
Works  of  Artemus  Ward  (London,  1898)  is  as  inclusive  as  any  edition. 
Selected  Works  of  Artemus  Ward,  ed.  Albert  J.  Nock  (1924),  is  more  available. 
For  C.  D.  Warner:  The  Complete  Writings  of  Charles  Dudley  Warner, 
Backlog  Edition,  ed.  Thomas  R.  Lounsbury,  15  Vols.  (Hartford,  1904).  Annie 
A.  Fields,  Charles  Dudley  Warner  (1904)  is  the  sole  biography.  For  Frank 
Stockton:  Martin  I.  J.  Griffin,  Frank  R.  Stockton:  A  Critical  Biography 
(Philadelphia,  1939,  bib.)  contains  much  information.  For  H.  C.  Bunner: 
Gerard  E.  Jensen,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  Henry  Cuyler  Bunner  (Durham, 
N.  C,  1939).  For  J.  K.  Bangs:  Francis  H.  Bangs,  John  Kendrick  Bangs: 
Humorist  of  the  Nineties  (1941). 

For  Mark  Twain:  Merle  D.  Johnson,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Works  of 
Mark  Twain  (New  York  and  London,  rev.  and  enlarged  edition,  1935)  ls  rhe 


io6z  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

most  extensive  but  does  not  list  many  items  more  recently  discovered  in 
early  newspapers  or  the  subsequently  published  material  from  Clemens's 
manuscripts.  Edgar  M.  Branch,  "A  Chronological  Bibliography  of  the  Writings 
of  Samuel  Clemens  to  June  8,  1867,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  18  (May,  1946),  pp. 
109-159,  lists  notable  additions  and  mentions  the  most  important  studies  of 
Clemens's  earlier  years.  Mr.  Branch  exploits  this  bibliography  in  The  Literary 
Apprenticeship  of  Mark  Twain  (Urbana,  111.,  1950),  which  contains  samples 
of  Clemens's  early  writing.  John  D.  Ferguson,  Mark  Twain:  Man  and  Legend 
(Indianapolis  and  New  York  [1943]),  in  a  most  useful  appendix  on  "Sources," 
lists  (pp.  333-337)  newer  books  containing  material  by  Clemens  as  well  as 
certain  items  uncollected.  The  authorized  collected  editions  are  all  published 
by  Harpers,  among  them  The  Writings  of  Mark  Twain,  Author's  National 
Edition,  25  Vols.  (New  York  and  London,  1907-18).  Harpers  have  also 
published  Letters,  2  Vols.  (New  York  and  London  [1917]);  Autobiography, 
2  Vols.  (New  York  and  London,  1924);  Notebook  (New  York  and  London, 
1935);  and  Mark  Twain  in  Eruption  (New  York  and  London  [1940]),  this 
last  a  selection  of  material  from  Clemens's  manuscripts,  ed.  Bernard  DeVoto. 
Mark  Twain  at  Your  Fingertips,  compiled  by  Caroline  T.  Harnsberger  ( 1 948 ) , 
is  a  kind  of  concordance  made  up  of  excerpts  from  Clemens's  books  and 
speeches,  arranged  alphabetically  by  subject. 

The  official  biography  is  Albert  B.  Paine,  Mark  Twain:  A  Biography,  3 
Vols.  (191 2),  later  reissued  in  2  Vols.  Many  corrections  and  additions, 
especially  in  connection  with  Clemens's  earlier  years,  have  been  made  by  other 
students,  e.g.,  those  mentioned  by  Branch.  For  the  period  1867-71  particularly, 
there  is  much  corrective  material  in  Mark  Twain  to  Mrs.  Fairbanks,  ed.  Dixon 
Wecter  (San  Marino,  Calif.,  1949).  For  Clemens's  relations  with  his  wife,  see 
especially  The  Love  Letters  of  Mark  Twain,  ed.  Dixon  Wecter  (1949). 
Ferguson's  is  a  very  handy  short  biography  and  serves  to  correct  the  exaggera- 
tions of  the  "frontier"  theorists.  Kenneth  R.  Andrews,  Nook  Farm  (Cam- 
bridge, 1950,  bib.)  offers  new  information  on  the  literary  circle  at  Hartford, 
Conn.  Gladys  C.  Bellamy,  Mark  Twain  as  a  Literary  Artist  (Norman,  Okla., 
I  1950],  bib.)  attempts  to  evaluate  Clemens  as  a  craftsman,  but  often  loses 
itself  in  biography  and  the  analysis  of  secular  ideas. 

Among  the  more  important  studies,  other  than  those  mentioned  in  the 
footnotes,  are:  Ivan  Benson,  Mark  Twain's  Western  Years  (Stanford,  Calif. 
I  1938],  bib.);  Grant  H.  Smith,  "High  Lights  of  Comstock  History,"  Pony 
Express  Courier,  Vol.  4  (May,  1938),  pp.  7-14;  Franklin  Walker,  San 
Francisco's  Literary  Frontier  (1939,  bib.);  William  D.  Howells,  My  Mark 
Twain  (New  York  and  London,  1910);  Edgar  H.  Hemminghaus,  Mark  Twain 
in  Germany  (1939,  bib.);  Victor  R.  West,  Folklore  in  the  Works  of  Mark 
Twain  (Lincoln,  Neb.,  1930,  bib.);  and  Robert  L.  Ramsay  and  Frances  G. 
Emberson,  A  Mark  Twain  Lexicon  (Columbia,  Mo.,  1938).  Two  periodicals, 
The  Mark  Twain  Quarterly  (1936-  )  and  The  Twainian  (1939-  ),  are 
especially  devoted  to  Clemens. 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1063 

CHAPTER    36 
NEW  VOICES  IN  VERSE 

The  general  references  at  the  beginning  of  the  bibliography  for  Chap.  31  are 
also  useful  for  the  other  poets  of  the  period.  Jessie  B.  Rittenhouse,  The 
Younger  A?nerican  Poets  (Boston,  1904;  reissued,  1906)  discusses  Hovey, 
Cawein,  Woodberry,  and  Miss  Guiney,  among  others,  and  contains  a  bio- 
graphical index.  Horace  Gregory  and  Marya  Zaturenska,  A  History  of 
American  Poetry,  1900-1940  ([1946])  begins  with  poets  of  the  late  century 
and  contains  uneven  discussion  of  Lodge,  Stickney,  Riley,  Miller,  Miss 
Guiney,  and  others.  A  forthcoming  history  of  American  poetry  since  1870  by 
Sculley  Bradley  will  doubtless  be  of  greater  help.  Jessie  B.  Rittenhouse,  My 
House  of  Life  (Boston  and  New  York,  1934)  has  material  on  Hovey,  Miss 
Guiney,  Mrs.  Moulton,  and  others;  Harriet  Monroe,  A  Poet's  Life  (1938) 
likewise  sheds  light  on  the  poetical  scene  of  the  late  century,  especially  in 
Chicago;  and  a  third  autobiography,  Carolyn  Wells,  The  Rest  of  My  Life 
(Philadelphia,  1937)  amusingly  comments  on  the  humor  of  the  nineties, 
especially  that  of  Herford  and  Burgess.  Examples  of  the  light  verse  of  the 
nineties  can  be  found  in  various  anthologies  edited  by  Carolyn  Wells  and 
in  the  following:  Patrician  Rhy?nes:  A  Resume  of  American  Society  Verse 
from  Philip  Freneau  to  the  Present  Day,  ed.  Clinton  Scollard  and  Jessie  B. 
Rittenhouse  (Boston  and  New  York,  1932),  and  American  Familiar  Verse: 
Vers  de  Societe,  ed.  Brander  Matthews  (New  York  and  London,  1904). 

For  Ella  W.  Wilcox:  Collected  Poems  of  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  (London 
[1924]);  Jenny  Ballou,  Period  Piece:  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  and  Her  Times 
(Boston,  1940).  For  G.  W.  Carryl:  Preface  by  E.  C.  Stedman  in  The  Garden 
of  Years  (New  York  and  London,  1904).  For  J.  B.  Tabb:  Francis  A.  Litz, 
Father  Tabb:  A  Study  of  His  Life  and  Works  (Baltimore,  1923)  contains  a 
good  list  of  works  by  and  about  the  poet.  The  Poetry  of  Father  Tabb,  ed. 
Francis  A.  Litz  (1928),  is  standard.  A  Selection  from  the  Verses  of  John  B. 
Tabb  has  been  made  by  Alice  Meynell  (Boston,  1907;  reissued,  London 
[1910]).  Gordon  Blair,  Father  Tabb  (Richmond,  1940)  contains  new  letters. 
For  Madison  Cawein:  The  Poems  of  Madison  Cawein,  5  Vols.  (Boston 
[1908]);  Otto  A.  Rothert,  The  Story  of  a  Poet:  Madison  Cawein  (Louisville, 
1 92 1,  bib.).  For  Richard  Hovey:  The  books  on  Bliss  Carman  contain  most 
material,  for  example,  Odell  Shepard,  Bliss  Carman  (Toronto  [1923],  bib.)  and 
James  Cappon,  Bliss  Carman  and  the  Literary  Currents  and  Influences  of  His 
Times  (New  York  and  Montreal  [1930]). 

For  E.  R.  Sill:  The  Poetical  Works  of  Edward  Rowland  Sill,  ed.  William 
B.  Parker  (Boston  and  New  York,  1906;  reissued  [1917]),  and  The  Prose  of 
Edward  Rowland  Sill  (Boston  and  New  York,  1900)  are  standard.  William  B. 
Parker,  Edward  Rowland  Sill:  His  Life  and  Work  (Boston  and  New  York, 
191 5)  is  the  only  biography  of  consequence.  For  G.  E.  Woodberry:  John 
Erskine,  George  Edward  Woodberry,  1855-1930  (1930)  contains  a  list  of 
writings  by  and  about,  compiled  by  R.  R.  Hawkins.  Selected  Poems  of  George 
Edward  Woodberry  (Boston  and  New  York,  1933)  is  of  more  value  than 
Selected  Letters  of  George  Edward  Woodberry  (Boston  and  New  York,  1933). 


io64  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

Louis  V.  Ledoux,  The  Poetry  of  George  Edward  Woodberry  (191 8,  bib.)  is 
not  matched  bv  any  corresponding  study  of  Woodberry  as  a  critic.  Joseph 
Doyle  is  at  work  on  a  scholarly  biography.  For  Henry  Van  Dyke:  Tertius 
Van  Dyke,  Henry  Van  Dyke:  A  Biography  (New  York  and  London,  1935) 
contains  a  list  of  the  poet's  books  and  pamphlets.  Works  of  Henry  Van  Dyke, 
Avalon  Edition,  17  Vols.  (1920-22),  is  incomplete.  The  Foems  of  Henry 
Van  Dyke   (new  and  rev.  edition,   1926)   will  suffice. 

For  G.  C.  Lodge:  Henry  Adams,  The  Life  of  George  Cabot  Lodge  (Boston 
and  New  York,  191 1 )  is  the  only  book.  For  Trumbull  Stickney:  The  Poems 
of  Trumbull  Stickney,  ed.  George  C.  Lodge,  William  V.  Moody,  and  John  E. 
Lodge  (Boston  and  New  York,  1905),  contains  a  biographical  note.  Edmund 
WTilson  thus  far  has  pronounced  the  best  critical  dictum  in  "The  Country 
I  Remember,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  103  (Oct.  14,  1940),  pp.  529-530.  Thomas 
Riggs  has  completed  a  scholarly  study  offered  as  a  dissertation  at  Princeton 
(1949). 

For  Helen  H.  Jackson:  The  bibliography  of  her  writings  in  Ruth  Odell, 
Helen  Hunt  Jackson  (H.H.)  (New  York  and  London,  1939)  is  unusually 
thorough.  Poems  by  Helen  Jackson  (Boston,  1893)  *s  as  good  as  any.  For  her 
interest  in  the  Indians,  see  Albert  Keiser,  The  Indian  in  American  Literature 
(1933,  bib.).  For  Louise  C.  Moulton:  The  Poems  and  Sonnets  of  Louise 
Chandler  Moulton  (Boston  [1908] );  Lilian  Whiting,  Louise  Chandler  Moulton: 
Poet  and  Friend  (Boston,  1910).  For  Emma  Lazarus:  H.  E.  Jacob  mentions  the 
chief  works  on  her  in  The  World  of  Emma  Lazarus  ([1949] ),  pp.  215-217.  The 
Poems  of  Emma  Lazarus,  2  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  1889)  contains  a 
biographical  sketch  by  her  sister.  Emma  Lazarus:  Selections  from  Her  Poetry 
and  Prose,  ed.  Morris  U.  Schappes  ([1944];  rev.  and  enl.,  1947),  con- 
tains also  critical  material.  Letters  to  Emma  Lazarus,  ed.  Ralph  L.  Rusk  (1939), 
prints  a  few  epistles  from  very  distinguished  hands.  For  Louise  I.  Guiney: 
Eva  M.  Tenison,  "A  Bibliography  of  Louise  Imogen  Guiney  1 861 -1920," 
Bookman's  Journal  and  Print  Collector,  N.S.,  Vol.  7  (Dec,  1922;  Jan.,  March, 
1923),  pp.  86-87,  I23_I24>  181-182,  is  the  most  extensive.  Happy  Ending:  The 
Collected  Lyrics  of  Louise  Imogen  Guiney  (Boston  and  New  York,  new 
edition,  1927)  is  adequate.  Michael  Earls,  "Letters  of  Louise  Imogen  Guiney," 
Bookman,  Vol.  ^  (April,  Aug.,  1922),  pp.  163-169,  591-596;  Vol.  ^6  (Feb., 
1923),  pp.  705-709;  Eva  M.  Tenison,  Louise  Imogen  Guiney:  Her  Life  and 
Works,  1861-1920  (London,  1923,  bib.);  Alice  Brown,  Louise  Imogen  Guiney 
(1921).  For  J.  G.  Holland:  The  best  study  available  is  Harry  H.  Peckham, 
Josiah  Gilbert  Holland  in  Relation  to  His  Times  (Philadelphia,  1940,  bib.). 

For  Emily  Dickinson:  Emily  Dickinson:  A  Bibliography,  with  a  foreword 
by  George  F.  Whicher  (Amherst,  1930;  2nd  edition,  193 1 ),  is  notably  sup- 
plemented by  "Early  Reviews  of  Books  by  Emily  Dickinson,  1890- 1896," 
Appendix  II  of  Millicent  T.  Bingham,  Ancestors'  Brocades:  The  Literary  Debut 
of  Emily  Dickinson  (New  York  and  London,  1945).  The  critical  remarks  on 
works  listed  in  the  "Bibliographical  Postscript"  of  George  F.  Whicher,  This 
Was  a  Poet:  A  Critical  Biography  of  Emily  Dickinson  (New  York  and  London, 
1938)  make  this  book  the  obvious  starting  point  for  the  bibliography  of 
secondary  sources.  Poems  by  Emily  Dickinson,  ed.  Martha  D.  Bianchi  and 
Alfred  L.  Hampson  (Boston,  1945),  reprints  the  material  from  all  the  earlier 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1065 

volumes  and,  despite  the  unreliability  of  the  text,  is  standard.  With  it  one 
must  use  also  Bolts  of  Melody:  New  Poems  of  Emily  Dickinson,  ed.  Mabel 
L.  Todd  and  Millicent  T.  Bingham  (New  York  and  London,  1945).  See  also 
Mrs.  Bingham,  "Poems  of  Emily  Dickinson  Hitherto  Published  Only  in  Part," 
New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  20  (March,  1947),  pp.  3-50,  and  G.  F.  Whicher, 
"Some  Uncollected  Poems  by  Emily  Dickinson,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  20  (Jan.' 
J949),  PP-  436-440-  The  Letters  of  Emily  Dickinson,  ed.  Mabel  L.  Todd  (New 
York  and  London,  new  and  rev.  edition,  193 1),  is  supplemented  chiefly  by 
the  epistles  and  notes  in  Martha  D.  Bianchi,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  Emily 
Dickinson  (Boston,  1924)  and  the  same  author's  Emily  Dickinson  Face  to 
Face:  Unpublished  Letters  with  Notes  and  Reminiscences  (Boston,  1932).  The 
fifth  edition  of  the  former  (1929)  has  some  corrections,  but  the  texts  in  both 
books  are  probably  inaccurate.  Other  letters  appear  in  articles  listed  in  Articles 
on  American  Literature ...  1920-194$,  ed.  Lewis  Leary.  No  book,  including 
that  by  Henry  W.  Wells,  has  supplanted  This  Was  a  Poet  as  criticism.  Mrs. 
Bingham's  introduction  to  Bolts  of  Melody  provides  the  best  description  of 
the  difficulties  presented  by  the  poet's  manuscripts.  Some  of  the  seeming 
irregularities  in  grammar  are  explained  by  Grace  B.  Sheerer,  "A  Study  of 
Unusual  Verb  Constructions  in  the  Poems  of  Emily  Dickinson,"  Amer.  Lit., 
Vol.  7  (March,  1935),  pp.  37-46.  Gay  Allen,  American  Prosody  ([1935],  bib.) 
gives  an  elementary  discussion  of  her  technique  in  Chap.  XI. 

Scholarship  on  Emily  Dickinson  is  as  yet  in  a  stage  of  tender  infancy.  The 
preparation  of  reliable  texts,  now  that  the  MSS  are  at  Harvard,  is  the  first  es- 
sential step.  Meanwhile,  we  may  expect  in  the  near  future  more  factual  material 
from  Mrs.  Bingham,  an  edition  of  E.  D.'s  letters  to  J.  G.  Holland  on  which 
Theodora  Ward  has  been  at  work,  and  a  critical  biography  by  Rebecca  Patter- 
son, which  will  devote  special  attention  to  the  poet's  symbolism. 

CHAPTER    37 

THE  FACTS  OF  LIFE  VERSUS  PLEASANT  READING 

For  the  vogue  of  the  Historical  Romance,  see  Ernest  E.  Leisy,  The  American 
Historical  Novel  (Norman,  Okla.,  1950,  bib.).  For  Edgar  Saltus:  The  only 
bibliography  worthy  of  note  is  in  LHUS,  and  the  only  book  is  Marie  Saltus, 
Edgar  Saltus,  the  Man  (Chicago,  1925),  almost  without  value  because  of  its 
lack  of  information. 

Harold  Frederic  has  prompted  little  more  scholarly  study,  though  there 
is  a  valuable  manuscript  dissertation  dealing  with  his  life  and  works,  by  Paul 
Haines,  completed  at  New  York  University  (1945).  In  addition  to  the  standard 
works  on  American  fiction,  one  may  consult  with  profit  Stephen  Crane, 
"Harold  Frederic,"  Chap-Book,  Vol.  8  (March  15,  1898),  pp.  358-359;  Charles 
C.  Walcutt,  "Harold  Frederic  and  American  Naturalism,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  1 1 
(March,  1939),  pp.  11-22;  and  the  introduction  by  Robert  M.  Lovett  to  the 
1924  reprint  of  The  Damnation  of  T  her  on  Ware.  For  H.  B.  Fuller:  The 
chief  bibliography  appears  in  Constance  M.  Griffin,  Henry  Blake  Fuller 
(Philadelphia,  1939).  Bernard  R.  Bowron  has  completed  a  critical  study, 
written  as  a  doctoral  dissertation  at  Harvard  (1947). 


io66 


THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 


Material  on  Frank  Norris  is  much  more  voluminous.  A  handy  bibliography 
appears  in  Ernest  Marchand,  Frank  Norris:  A  Study  (Stanford  University, 
Calif.,  1942).  The  Complete  Edition  of  Frank  Norris,  10  Vols.  (Garden  City, 
N  Y  1928),  includes  a  batch  of  previously  uncollected  materials,  as  does 
also  Frank  Norris  of  "The  Wave"  (San  Francisco,  1931).  The  best  biography 
is  Franklin  D.  Walker,  Frank  Norris  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1932).  Norns's 
connection  with  French  naturalism  is  considered  in  two  published  theses: 
Marius  Biencourt,  Une  Influence  du  Naturalisme  Francais  en  Amerique:  Frank 
Norris  (Paris,  1933,  bib.)  and  Lars  Ahnebrink,  The  Influence  of  Emile  Zola 
on  Frank  Norris  (Upsala,  Sweden  [1947],  bib.).  Mr.  Ahnebrink  has  more 
recently  published  a  fuller  study,  The  Beginnings  of  Naturalism  in  American 
Fiction,  1891-1903  (Upsala  [1950]),  covering  Garland  and  Norris  as  well  as 
Crane  with  special  reference  to  certain  European  influences.  The  critical 
reception  afforded  Norris's  works  is  surveyed  by  Marchand,  whose  own 
judicial  pronouncements  need  to  be  taken  with  a  little  salt. 

For  Stephen  Crane:  The  best  bibliography  contains  also  a  few  new  bio- 
graphical facts,  Ames  W.  Williams  and  Vincent  Starrett,  Stephen  Crane: 
A  Bibliography  (Glendale,  Calif.,  1948).  The  Work  of  Stephen  Crane,  12  Vols. 
(1025-27)  was  edited  by  Wilson  Follett  but  has  introductions,  of  negligible 
value  by  'various  hands.  The  Sullivan  County  Sketches  of  Stephen  Crane,  ed. 
Melvin  Schoberlin  (Syracuse  [1949]),  adds  a  few  uncollected  early  pieces. 
The  Collected  Poems  of  Stephen  Crane  (New  York  and  London,  1930)  was 
also  edited  by  Follett.  The  Red  Badge  of  Courage  is  available  in  several  re- 
prints, and  the  best  selection  of  the  shorter  narratives  is  Twenty  Stories, 
chosen  by  Carl  Van  Doren  (1940).  Thomas  Beer,  Stephen  Crane:  A  Study  in 
American  Letters  (1923)  is  very  readable  and  very  unsound.  John  Berryman, 
Stephen  Crane  has  been  announced  for  publication.  Melvin  Schoberlin  is  at 
work  on  another  biography.  Crane's  earliest  adventures  in  journalism  are 
treated  by  Victor  A.  Elconin,  "Stephen  Crane  at  Asbury  Park,"  Amer.  Lit 
Vol.  20  (Nov.,  1948),  pp.  275-289.  Critical  studies,  old  and  new,  are  listed 
in  the  bibliography  by  Williams  and  Starrett. 

For  Ambrose  Bierce:  Vincent  Starrett  again  supplies  help,  in  Ambrose 
Bierce:  A  Bibliography  (Philadelphia,  1929).  The  standard  edition  is  The 
Collected  Works  of  Ambrose  Bierce,  12  Vols.  (Washington  and  New  York, 
1909-12),  but  The  Collected  Writings  of  Ambrose  Bierce,  ed.  Clifton  Fadiman 
(1946),  eliminates  much  of  the  trash.  The  ablest  book  on  the  man  is  Carey 
McWilliams,  Ambrose  Bierce:  A  Biography  (1929,  bib.),  though  much  new 
material  has  become  available  more  recently  in  the  Huntington  Library  and 
elsewhere.  Arthur  M.  Miller  has  wrestled  with  an  interesting  topic  in  "The 
Influence  of  Edgar  Allan  Poe  on  Ambrose  Bierce,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  4  (May, 
1932),  pp.  130-150;  and  general  commentary  is  to  be  found  in  C  Hartley 
Grattan,  Bitter  Bierce  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1929). 

For  R.  H.  Davis:  See  Henry  C.  Quinby,  Richard  Harding  Davis:  A  Bib- 
liography ([1924]).  The  Novels  and  Stories  of  Richard  Harding  Davis,  12 
Vols.  (1916;  reissued,  1927)  is  not  all-inclusive.  Adventures  and  Letters  of 
Richard  Harding  Davis,  ed.  Charles  B.  Davis  (191 7),  and  Fairfax  D.  Downey, 
Richard  Harding  Davis:  His  Day  (New  York  and  London,  1933)  leave  some- 
thing to  be  desired  in  the  way  of  biography.  For  E.  W.  Townsend:  There  is 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1067 

nothing  of  consequence  anywhere  outside  of  newspapers  and  encyclopedias. 
The  books  on  American  fiction  by  Quinn,  Van  Doren,  and  Cowie  contain 
illuminating  discussion  of  the  subject  dealt  with  in  this  chapter. 

CHAPTER    38 

THE  CHALLENGE  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS 
AND  OF  SCIENCE 

For  the  Economic  and  Sociological  Problems  besetting  the  era,  see  the  volumes 
by  Allan  Nevins,  Ida  M.  Tarbell,  and  Arthur  M.  Schlesinger  in  A  History 
of  American  Life.  A  useful  economic  history  is  Chester  W.  Wright,  Economic 
History  of  the  United  States  (New  York  and  London,  second  edition,  1949, 
bib.).  Fred  A.  Shannon,  The  Farmer's  Last  Frontier:  Agriculture,  1860-1897 
(1945,  bib-)  is  the  fifth  volume  in  a  very  extensive  Economic  History  of  the 
United  States.  Joseph  Dorfman,  Thor stein  Veblen  and  His  America  (New 
York,  1934,  bib.)  in  its  early  chapters  analyzes  academic  economic  theories 
and  the  major  textbooks  of  the  period.  The  index  by  Lisle  A.  Rose  mentioned 
in  footnote  1  is  of  prime  value  as  a  guide  to  original  sources.  No  other  study 
of  the  effects  of  economics  on  the  belles-lettrists  is  as  extensive  as  Walter  F. 
Taylor,  The  Economic  Novel  in  America  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1942,  bib.),  but 
it  concentrates  largely  on  Mark  Twain,  Garland,  Bellamy,  Howells,  and  Norris. 
Merle  Curti,  The  Growth  of  American  Thought  (New  York  and  London, 
1943,  bib.)  devotes  Chap.  XX  to  "Business  and  the  Life  of  the  Mind."  Works 
dealing  with  leading  sociologists  of  the  late  century,  such  as  William  G. 
Sumner  and  Lester  F.  Ward,  can  be  found  in  the  bibliography  of  Charles  H. 
Page,  Class  and  American  Sociology  (1940).  Luther  L.  Bernard  and  Jessie 
Bernard,  Origins  of  American  Sociology  ([1943])  is  of  major  value  to  the 
historian  of  the  subject  and  in  addition  throws  much  corrective  light  on  the 
establishment  of  history  as  a  social  study. 

For  A.  W.  Tourgee:  See  Roy  F.  Dibble,  Albion  W.  Tourgee  (1921,  bib.). 
For  Henry  George:  Collected  editions,  each  in  10  Vols.,  including  the 
biography  by  his  son,  have  appeared  as  The  Writings  of  Henry  George, 
Memorial  Edition  (1 898-1 901)  and  The  Complete  Works  of  Henry  George 
(Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  191 1).  Henry  George,  Jr.,  The  Life  of  Henry  George 
(New  York  and  London,  1900)  and  George  R.  Geiger,  The  Philosophy  of 
Henry  George  (1933)  are  by  no  means  definitive.  For  Edward  Bellamy: 
The  two  chief  works  in  book  form  are  by  Arthur  E.  Morgan:  Edward  Bellamy 
(1944,  bib.)  and  The  Philosophy  of  Edward  Bellamy  (1945).  Neither  is 
satisfactory.  Vernon  L.  Parrington,  Jr.,  American  Dreams  (Providence,  1947, 
bib.)  deals  with  a  variety  of  literary  Utopias.  For  Socialism:  The  most  useful 
survey  is  still  Morris  Hillquit,  History  of  Socialism  in  the  United  States  (New 
York  and  London,  1903;  fourth  edition,  1906).  For  the  History  of  Science: 
Edward  S.  Dana  and  others,  A  Century  of  Science  in  America:  With  Special 
Reference  to  The  A?nerican  journal  of  Science,  1818-1918  (New  Haven,  1918). 
Bernard  Jaffe,  Men  of  Science  in  America  (1944,  bib.)  discusses  only  the  most 
eminent  figures,  but  is  very  readable  and,  in  general,  enlightening.  Of  special 
importance  to  the  literary  student  is  psychology,  for  which  the  only  historical 


io68  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

study  in  book  form  is  Jay  W.  Fay,  American  Psychology  before  William 
}ames  (New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  1939,  bib.)- 

For  John  Burroughs:  The  Complete  Writings  of  John  Burroughs,  Wake- 
Robin  Edition,  23  Vols.  (1924),  is  the  most  inclusive.  The  Heart  of  Burroughs^ 
Journals,  ed.  Clara  Barrus  (Boston  and  New  York,  1928),  supplements  Clara 
Barrus,  The  Life  and  Letters  of  John  Burroughs,  2  Vols.  (Boston  and  New 
York,  1925).  Clifford  H.  Osborne,  The  Religion  of  John  Burroughs  (Boston 
and  New  York,  1930)  may  be  of  help  to  future  students  of  his  critical 
philosophy.  For  John  Muir:  The  Writings  of  John  Muir,  Sierra  Edition,  ed. 
William  F.  Bade,  10  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  191 6).  John  of  the 
Mountains,  ed.  Linnie  M.  Wolfe  (Boston,  1938),  contains  his  journals.  Linnie 
M.  Wolfe,  Son  of  the  Wilderness:  The  Life  of  John  Muir  (1945,  bib.)  neglects 
his  literary  work  almost  entirely.  Norman  Foerster,  Nature  in  American 
Literature  (1923)  contains  thoughtful  chapters  on  Muir  and  Burroughs. 

For  Evolution:  Darwin  and  Spencer  are  briefly  discussed,  with  bib- 
liographical footnotes,  in  A  Literary  History  of  England,  ed.  Albert  C. 
Baugh  (New  York  and  London,  1948),  pp.  1 299-1 308  and  13 24- 13 26.  Repercus- 
sions in  the  United  States  are  treated  in  the  bibliographies  as  well  as  in  the 
text  of  Merle  Curti,  The  Growth  of  American  Thought;  Herbert  W. 
Schneider,  A  History  of  American  Philosophy  (1946);  and  W.  H.  Werk- 
meister,  A  History  of  Philosophical  Ideas  in  America  ([1949]).  Richard 
Hofstadter,  Social  Darwinism  in  American  Thought,  1860-191$  (Philadelphia, 
1944,  bib.)  is  one  of  the  best  studies,  as  is  also  Philip  Wiener,  Evolution  and  the 
Founders  of  Pragmatism  (Cambridge,  1949).  Various  articles  by  Bert  J.  Lou- 
wenberg  are  worthy  of  special  note.  Evolutionary  Thought  In  America,  ed. 
Stow  Persons  (New  Haven,  1950),  is  a  symposium  with  essays  of  uneven  value. 
Little  exists  in  print  on  the  effects  of  evolution  on  the  belles-lettrists,  the 
most  extensive  survey  being  Frederick  W.  Conner,  Cosmic  Optimism  (Gaines- 
ville, Fla.,  1949,  bib.),  a  study  of  the  reaction  of  the  poets  from  Emerson 
to  Robinson.  A  forthcoming  work  by  Harry  Hayden  Clark  will  doubtless 
be  of  unusual  value.  For  John  Fiske:  The  Writings  of  John  Fiske,  Edition 
de  Luxe,  24  Vols.  (Cambridge,  1902)  is  standard.  John  S.  Clark,  The  Life 
and  Letters  of  John  Fiske,  2  Vols.  (Boston  and  New  York,  191 7)  needs  to 
be  supplemented  by  The  Letters  of  John  Fiske,  ed.  Ethel  F.  Fisk  (1940). 

For  S.  W.  Mitchell:  Anna  R.  Burr,  Weir  Mitchell:  His  Life  and  Letters 
(1929)  lists  his  writings  on  pp.  397-413.  Works  of  S.  Weir  Mitchell  have 
appeared  in  10  Vols,  as  Author's  Edition  (1903)  and  in  16  Vols,  as  Author's 
Definitive  Edition  (1913-14).  Neither  is  complete.  Ernest  Earnest,  S.  Weir 
Mitchell:  Novelist  and  Physician  (Philadelphia,  1950)  is  the  only  recent  book. 

For  the  History  of  History:  Theory  and  Practice  in  Historical  Study,  Social 
Science  Research  Council  Bidletin,  No.  54  ([1946])  offers  primarily  a  search- 
ing criticism  of  the  work  of  the  professionals  but  in  Chap.  VI,  "Selective 
Reading  List  on  Historiography  and  Philosophy  of  History,"  includes  most 
of  the  important  works  on  American  historiography.  Michael  Kraus,  A 
History  of  American  History  (1937)  covers  our  period  on  pp.  272  ff.  The 
Marcus  W.  Jernigan  Essays  in  American  Historiography ,  ed.  William  T. 
Hutchinson  (Chicago  [1937]),  is  an  anthology  of  essays  on  the  leading 
historians  from  Bancroft  to  Parrington  and  is  variable  in  quality.  For  history 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1069 

in  the  colleges  during  the  period,  see  the  Bernards,  Origins  of  American 
Sociology  and  Historical  Scholarship  in  the  U.  S.,  1816-1901:  As  Revealed 
in  the  Correspondence  of  Herbert  B.  Adams,  ed.  W.  Stull  Holt  (Baltimore, 
1938).  Brief  histories  of  die  older  historical  societies  may  be  found  in  Leslie 
W.  Dunlap,  American  Historical  Societies,  1790-1860  (Madison,  Wis.,  1944); 
newer  ones  are  listed  in  Historical  Societies  in  the  United  States  and  Canada, 
compiled  and  ed.  Christopher  Crittenden  and  Doris  Godard  (Washington, 
1944). 

For  A.  T.  Mahan:  William  E.  Livezey,  Mahan  on  Sea  Power  (Norman, 
Okla.,  1947)  is  excellent  as  biography  and  criticism  and  contains  a  list  of 
Mahan's  publications  as  well  as  the  best  bibliography  of  primary  and  secondary 
sources.  For  Francis  Parkman:  A  most  helpful  bibliography  is  to  be  found 
in  Francis  Parkman:  Representative  Selections,  ed.  Wilbur  L.  Schramm 
([1938]).  Any  authorized  edition  published  since  1893  has  a  reliable  text. 
Of  several  such,  one  is  The  Works  of  Francis  Parkman,  Frontenac  Edition, 
20  Vols.,  including  the  biography  by  Charles  H.  Farnham  (Boston,  190 1-7). 
Since  Schramm's  bibliography  was  published  two  important  works  have 
appeared:  The  Journals  of  Francis  Parkman,  ed.  Mason  Wade,  2  Vols.  (New 
York  and  London,  1947),  which  includes  the  original  diary  of  the  trip  to  the 
West,  and  Mason  Wade,  Francis  Parkman:  Heroic  Historian  (1942,  bib.), 
the  best  of  the  several  biographies.  Howard  H.  Peckham,  Pontiac  and  the 
Indian  Uprising  (Princeton,  1947)  corrects  some  of  Parkman's  views  on  the 
subject. 

For  Henry  Adams:  A  bibliography  of  the  writings  of  Adams  appears  in 
James  T.  Adams,  Henry  Adams  (1933).  There  is  no  collected  edition  of 
Adams's  works,  but  many  of  them  are  available  in  reprints.  His  big  history 
has  recently  been  cut  to  a  third  of  its  original  size  and  published  as  The 
Formative  Years,  ed.  Herbert  Agar,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1947).  Ernest  Samuels, 
The  Young  Henry  Adams  (Cambridge,  1948,  bib.)  is  very  helpful  as  far  as  it 
goes.  In  lieu  of  a  good  complete  biography  the  letters  are  to  be  used.  Various 
collections  of  these  have  been  mentioned  in  the  footnotes,  particularly  Henry 
Adams  and  His  Friends,  ed.  Harold  D.  Cater  (Boston,  1947).  This  contains 
a  long  biographical  introduction  which  corrects  or  adds  new  details  to  all 
preceding  discussions  of  Adams's  life.  In  addition  to  the  works  on  the  history 
of  history,  the  following  contain  meritorious  commentary  on  his  views:  Roy 
Nichols,  "The  Dynamic  Interpretation  of  History,"  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  8  (June,  1935),  pp.  163-178;  James  T.  Adams,  "Henry  Adams  and  the 
New  Physics,"  Yale  Review,  N.  S.,  Vol.  19  (December,  1929),  pp.  283-302; 
and  Robert  V.  Shumate,  "The  Political  Philosophy  of  Henry  Adams,"  Amer. 
Pol.  Sci.  Rev.,  Vol.  28  (Aug.,  1934),  pp.  599-610.  For  Adams  as  a  literary  figure, 
see,  for  example,  Robert  A.  Hume,  "The  Style  and  Literary  Background  of 
Henry  Adams,"  Amer.  hit.,  Vol.  16  (Jan.,  1945),  pp.  296-315;  various  articles 
by  Richard  P.  Blackmur;  and  Robert  E.  Spiller's  introduction  to  the  reprint 
of  Esther  (1938).  Mr.  Spiller's  essay  on  Adams  in  LHUS,  Vol.  2,  Chap.  LXV, 
is  especially  good. 


io7o  THE  LATER  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

CHAPTER    39 

AMUSEMENTS  ON  THE  STAGE 

The  bibliographies  and  lists  of  plays  in  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  A  History  of  the 
American  Drama  from  the  Civil  War  to  the  Fresent  Day,  2  Vols.  (New  York 
and  London,  1927;  second  edition,  in  one  Vol.,  1936)  are  the  most  generally 
useful  for  our  period.  A  number  of  the  plays  therein  listed  as  unpublished 
have  since  appeared  in  the  series  called  "America's  Lost  Plays,"  20  Vols. 
(Princeton,  1940-42).  Robert  L.  Sherman  has  prepared  a  Drama  Cyclopedia 
which  undertakes,  unsuccessfully,  to  list  every  play  produced  in  the  United 
States  by  a  professional  company,  from  1750  to  1940  (mimeographed,  Chicago 
[1944]).  George  C.  D.  Odell,  Annals  of  the  New  York  Stage  is  an  essential 
tool.  Its  latest  volume  (XV)  appeared  in  1949,  and  brings  the  history  up 
through  1894.  Sporadically,  there  is  to  be  found  important  material  in  such 
books  as  Norman  Hapgood,  The  Stage  in  America,  1897-1900  (1901);  Lewis 
C.  Strang,  Players  and  Plays  of  the  Last  Quarter  Century,  Vol.  2,  The  Theatre 
of  To-day  (Boston,  1903);  George  Blumenthal,  My  Sixty  Years  in  Show 
Business:  A  Chronicle  of  the  American  Theater,  1874-1934  ([1936]);  and 
Clara  Morris,  Life  on  the  Stage:  My  Personal  Experiences  and  Recollections 
(1901).  James  H.  Pence,  The  Magazine  and  the  Drama  (1896)  provides  an 
index  to  articles  on  the  theatre  in  both  English  and  American  periodicals. 
Howells's  novel,  The  Story  of  a  Play  (1898),  presents  an  excellent  picture 
of  the  trials  besetting  an  author  in  getting  a  play  produced.  The  emotional 
theory  of  acting,  which  must  be  understood  in  judging  plays  of  the  time,  may 
be  glimpsed  in  Richard  Mansfield,  "Concerning  Acting,"  North  American 
Review,  Vol.  159  (Sept.,  1894),  pp.  337-343.  Speech  Monographs,  Vol.  16,  No.  3 
(Nov.,  1949),  is  a  bib.  of  works  on  theatre  and  drama  published  1937-47. 

Quinn's  history  contains  chapters  on  the  various  eminent  playwrights  and 
mentions  the  chief  biographical  sketches  in  the  bibliographies.  Worth  adding 
is  Marvin  L.  Felheim,  "The  Career  of  Augustin  Daly,"  unpublished  dissertation, 
Harvard  University  (1948).  For  Lew  Wallace:  See  Irving  McKee,  "Ben-Hur" 
Wallace:  The  Life  of  General  Lew  Wallace  (Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles,  1947, 
bib.). 

No  important  local  stage  anywhere  in  the  world  has  received  the  detailed 
study  accorded  the  New  York  theatre  by  Odell.  For  activities  in  the  West: 
See,  for  example:  John  S.  Lindsay,  The  Mormons  and  the  Theatre  (Salt  Lake 
City,  1905);  Clair  E.  Willson,  Mimes  and  Miners:  A  Historical  Study  of  the 
Theatre  in  Tombstone  (Tucson,  Ariz.  [1935],  bib.);  Constance  M.  Rourke, 
Troupers  of  the  Gold  Coast  ([1928]);  Edmond  G.  Gagey,  The  San  Francisco 
Stage:  A  History  (1950);  George  R.  MacMinn,  The  Theater  of  the  Golden 
Era  in  California  (Caldwell,  Ida.,  1941,  bib.);  and  Melvin  Schoberlin,  From 
Candles  to  Footlights:  A  Biography  of  the  Pike's  Peak  Theatre,  1859-1876 
(Denver,  1941,  bib.).  A  revealing  picture  of  what  appeared  in  Boston  at 
the  time  is  to  be  had  in  Charles  E.  L.  Wingate,  The  Playgoers'  Y ear-Book 
for  1888  (Boston  |  [888]).  Thomas  F.  Marshall,  A  History  of  the  Philadelphia 
Theatre,  1878-1890  ...  |  Philadelphia,  1943]  is  part  of  a  doctoral  dissertation. 
Robert  L.  Sherman  has  issued  the  first  of  three  contemplated  volumes  on  the 


PART  III:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1071 

Chicago  Stage:  Its  Records  and  Achievements  (mimeographed,  Chicago 
[1947]).  Thus  far,  the  years  covered  are  1834-71. 

•  Special  studies  are  Eugene  C.  Elliott,  A  History  of  Variety -Vaudeville  in 
Seattle  from  the  Beginning  to  1914  (Seattle,  1944,  bib.)  and  Felix  Sper,  From 
Native  Roots  (Caldwell,  Ida.,  1948)— "a  panorama  of  regional  drama,"  chiefly 
of  the  present  century,  though  not  without  mention  of  the  past.  A  pretty  big 
subject  is  touched  upon  by  Horst  Frenz  and  Louise  W.  Campbell  in  "William 
Gillette  on  the  London  Stage,"  Queen's  Quart.,  Vol.  52  (1945),  pp.  1-15. 


PART  IV 

The  Twentieth  Century 

When  no  standard  bibliography  of  an  author's  writings  is  available,  lists  of 
titles  may  be  found  in  Fred  B.  Millett,  Contemporary  American  Authors 
(1940);  S.  J.  Kunitz  and  Howard  Hay  craft,  Twentieth  Century  Authors 
(1942);  or  in  the  appropriate  volume  of  Who  Was  Who  in  America  or  Who's 
Who  in  America.  Merle  Johnson,  American  First  Editions  (fourth  edition  rev. 
and  enl.  by  Joseph  Blanck,  1942)  gives  slightly  fuller  bibliographical  informa- 
tion for  important  authors. 

The  best  literary  survey  of  the  contemporary  period  is  Alfred  Kazin,  On 
Native  Grounds  (1942).  Oscar  Cargill,  Intellectual  America  (1941),  a  pre- 
mature synthesis,  must  be  read  with  many  reservations.  Earlier  treatments  of 
the  period  are  now  seriously  out  of  date. 

No  general  bibliography  of  Fiction  since  1900  has  been  compiled.  Some 
material  may  be  found  in  Otis  W.  Coan  and  Richard  G.  Lillard,  America  in 
Fiction  (Stanford  Univ.,  Calif.,  rev.  edition,  1945),  and  the  chapter  bibliographies 
in  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  American  Fiction  (1936)  touch  a  few  twentieth-century 
novelists.  Best  American  Short  Stories,  an  annual  compilation  begun  by  Edward 
J.  O'Brien  in  191 5,  is  a  useful  guide  to  shorter  fiction.  Critical  studies  include 
Joseph  W.  Beach,  The  Twentieth  Century  Novel  (1932)  and  American 
Fiction,  1920-194.0  (1941);  Maxwell  Geismar,  Writers  in  Crisis  (1942)  and 
The  Last  of  the  Provincials  (1947);  Regis  Michaud,  The  American  Novel 
Today  (1928);  Carl  Van  Doren,  Contemporary  American  Novelists  (1922); 
T.  K.  Whipple,  Spokesmen  (1928).  Fred  L.  Pattee,  The  Development  of  the 
American  Short  Story  (1923);  Blanche  C.  Williams,  Our  Short  Story  Writers 
(1920);  and  E.  J.  O'Brien,  The  Advance  of  the  Short  Story  (rev.  edition, 
1 931)  cover  only  the  early  part  of  the  period.  W.  F.  Taylor,  The  Economic 
Novel  in  America  (1942)  treats  the  relation  of  fiction  to  social  science. 

Special  bibliographies  of  recent  American  Poetry  include  Babette  Deutsch, 
This  Modern  Poetry  (1935,  bib.),  pp.  295-302;  Kirker  Quin  and  others, 
"American  Poetry,  1930-1940,"  Accent,  Vol.  1  (1941),  pp.  213-228;  Karl 
Shapiro,  Bibliography  of  Modern  Poetry  (Baltimore,  1948);  Allen  Tate,  Sixty 
American  Poets,  1896-1944  (Washington,  1945).  The  biographical-critical 
introductions  in  Louis  Untermeyer,  Modern  American  Poetry  (rev.  edition, 
1950)  are  also  useful.  The  most  comprehensive  historical  sketch  is  Horace 
Gregory  and  Marya  Zaturenska,  A  History  of  American  Poetry,  1900-1940 
(1946).  Outstanding  among  critical  studies  are  Conrad  Aiken,  Skepticisms 
(191 9);  Cleanth  Brooks,  Modern  Poetry  and  the  Tradition  (Chapel  Hill, 
N.  C,  1939);  and  Yvor  Winters,  Primitivism  and  Decadence  (1937).  Modern 
Poetry:  American  and  British   (1951),  ed.   Kimon  Friar  and  John  Malcolm 

1072 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1073 

Brinnin,  contains  an  excellent  analysis  of  the  "modern  idiom"  in  poetry  and 
notes  on  most  of  the  twentieth-century  poets. 

For  Drama,  consult  Frederick  W.  Faxon,  The  Dramatic  Index  (Boston, 
annually  since  1909  as  Part  2  of  The  Annual  Magazine  Subject  Index).  Burns 
Mantle,  Best  Plays  of  1909-1919,  and  the  same  writer's  Best  Plays  (annually 
since  1920)  comprise  an  informative  dramatic  yearbook.  A  list  of  playwrights, 
giving  place  and  date  of  first  production  and  date  of  publication  for  each 
play,  is  contained  in  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  A  History  of  the  American  Drama 
from  the  Civil  War  to  the  Present  Day  (rev.  edition,  1936).  An  annual  survey 
of  short  drama,  including  stage,  screen,  and  radio,  Margaret  G.  Mayorga, 
The  Best  One-Act  Plays,  includes  bibliographies.  Among  recent  critical  dis- 
cussions of  the  drama  may  be  mentioned  Burns  Mantle,  American  Playwrights 
of  Today  (1929)  and  Contemporary  American  Playwrights  (1938);  Joseph 
W.  Krutch,  The  American  Drama  Since  1918  (1939);  Eleanor  Flexner, 
American  Playwrights,  1918-1938  (1938);  Frank  H.  O'Hara,  Today  in 
American  Drama  (Chicago,  1939);  Clarence  J.  Wittier,  Some  Social  Trends 
in  WPA  Drama  (Washington,  1939).  For  impressions  of  the  contemporary 
theatre,  see  George  Jean  Nathan,  Testament  of  a  Critic  (1931)  and  The 
Theatre  of  the  Moment  (1936);  Stark  Young,  The  Flower  in  Drama  (1923). 

Surveys  of  Non-Fictional  Prose  include  Adaline  M.  Conway,  The  Essay  in 
American  Literature  (1914,  bib.);. Harry  B.  Weiss,  "American  Letter-WTriters, 
1698-1943,"  Bull.  N.  Y.  Pub.  Lib.,  Vol.  48  (1944),  pp.  959-982,  Vol.  49  (1945), 
pp.  36-61;  Edward  H.  O'Neill,  Biography  by  Americans  (Philadelphia,  1939). 
For  critical  comment  on  prose  style,  see  Joseph  W.  Beach,  The  Outlook  for 
American  Prose  (1926)  and  Gorham  B.  Munson,  Style  and  Form  in  American 
Prose  (1929). 

CHAPTER    40 

LINGERING  URBANITY 

For  W.  C.  Brownell:  biographical  and  bibliographical  materials  have  been 
assembled  in  Gertrude  H.  Brownell,  William  Crary  Brownell:  An  Anthology 
of  His  Writings  (1933).  A  collection  of  memorials  by  Edith  Wharton  and 
others  is  entitled,  W.  C.  Brownell:  Tributes  and  Appreciations  (1929).  He 
is  frequently  mentioned  in  Roger  Burlingame,  Of  Making  Many  Books  (1947). 
The  best  critical  essays  on  his  writing  are  by  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  Intro,  to 
American  Prose  Masters  in  Modern  Students'  Library  (1923)  and  "Mr. 
Brownell  on  the  Quest  for  Perfection,"  in  the  same  author's  Critical  Woodcuts 
(1926);  Louis  J.  A.  Mercier,  Le  Mouve?nent  Humaniste  aux  Etats-Unis  (Paris, 
1928).  Special  aspects  of  his  work  are  treated  by  Russell  Sturgis,  "William 
Crary  Brownell  as  a  Critic  on  Fine  Art,"  International  Monthly,  Vol.  5  (1902), 
pp.  448-467,  and  by  John  P.  Pritchard,  Return  to  the  Fountains  (Durham, 
N.  C,  1942),  a  study  of  classical  influences  in  Brownell's  criticism.  The  most 
recent  study  is  Me  Tsung  Kaung,  William  Crary  Brownell:  A  Critical  Biog- 
raphy (Univ.  of  Penna.  Thesis,  1947). 

Neither  Samuel  M.  Crothers  nor  Frank  M.  Colby  has  been  made  the 
subject  of  a  biography,  but  the  writings  of  the  latter  have  been  collected  as 
Colby  Essays  (1926),  ed.  Clarence  Day.  A  life  of  Agnes  Repplier  has  been 


io74  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

written  by  George  S.  Stokes,  Agnes  Repplier:  Lady  of  Letters  (Philadelphia, 
1949).  For  a  personal  appreciation,  see  A.  Edward  Newton,  End  Papers  (1933). 

The  most  recent  bibliographical  work  on  Edith  Wharton  has  been  done 
bv  Lavinia  R.  Davis,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  Edith  Wharton  (Port- 
land, Me.,  1933).  A  personal  sketch  has  been  written  by  Percy  Lubbock, 
Fortran  of  Edith  Wharton  (1947).  Further  materials  for  a  biography,  which 
has  yet  to  be  written,  are  contained  in  her  autobiography,  A  Backward  Glance 
(1934),  in  her  Intro,  to  Ethan  Frome,  Modern  Students'  Library  (1922),  in  her 
discussion  of  the  art  of  the  novel,  The  Writing  of  Fiction  (1925),  and  in 
various  books  of  travel.  Incidental  bits  may  be  gathered  from  Logan  Pearsall 
Smith,  Unf  or  gotten  Years  (1938),  and  from  the  letters  of  Howells,  Henry 
James,  and  Charles  Eliot  Norton.  Mrs.  Wharton's  papers  have  been  deposited 
in  the  Yale  University  Library,  not  to  be  unsealed  until  1968.  The  most 
thorough  critical  study  of  her  work  is  by  Edward  K.  Brown,  Edith  Wharton: 
Etude  Critique  (Paris,  1935,  bib.).  Out  of  much  writing  about  her  the  following 
references  seem  representative:  Henry  James,  Notes  on  Novelists  (1914), 
pp.  353-356;  Osbert  Burdett,  "Edith  Wharton,"  in  Contemporary  American 
Authors  (1928),  ed.  J.  C.  Squire;  Edmund  Wilson,  "Justice  to  Edith  Wharton," 
New  Republic,  Vol.  95  (June  29,  1938),  pp.  209-213;  Q.  D.  Leavis,  "Henry 
James's  Heiress:  The  Importance  of  Edith  Wharton,"  Scrutiny,  Vol.  7  (Dec, 
1938),  pp.  261-276;  An  Edith  Wharton  Treasury  (1950),  ed.  A.  H.  Quinn. 

For  Anne  Douglas  Sedgwick:  the  main  source  for  a  personal  impression 
is  Anne  Douglas  Sedgwick:  A  Portrait  in  Letters  (1936),  ed.  by  her  husband, 
Basil  de  Selincourt.  A  sympathetic  appreciation  is  Esther  L.  Forbes,  "Anne 
Douglas  Sedgwick  and  Her  Novels,"  Bookman,  Vol.  69  (Aug.,  1929),  pp. 
568-574. 

For  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson:  the  most  complete  of  several  bibliographies 
is  by  Lillian  Lippincott,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  and  Criticisms  of 
Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (Boston,  1937).  His  Collected  Poems  (1921)  was 
followed  by  Collected  Poems,  5  Vols.  (Cambridge,  1927),  and  by  an  inclusive 
one-volume  edition  in  1937.  Bliss  Perry  has  edited  selections  with  a  Preface 
and  the  author's  notes,  Poems  (1931).  For  the  poet's  letters,  the  chief  sources 
are  Selected  Letters  of  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (1940),  ed.  Ridgely 
Torrence;  Letters  of  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  to  Howard  George  Schmitt 
(Waterville,  Me.,  1943),  ed.  Carl  J.  Weber;  Untriangulated  Stars:  Letters  of 
Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  to  Harry  DeForest  Smith  (Cambridge,  1948),  ed. 
Denham  SutclirTe.  An  early  biographical  sketch  by  Ben  R.  Redman  (1926) 
has  been  superseded  by  Herman  Hagedorn,  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson:  A 
Biography  (1938),  written  by  an  intimate  friend,  and  Emery  Neff,  Edwin 
Arlington  Robinson  (1948),  a  biographical-critical  study.  One  of  the  pro- 
foundest  comments  on  the  man  and  his  poetry  is  Robert  Frost's  Intro,  to 
King  Jasper  (1935).  Representative  critical  commentaries  include  Lloyd  R. 
Morris,  The  Poetry  of  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (1923);  Mark  Van  Doren, 
Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (1927);  Lucius  M.  Beebe,  Aspects  of  the  Poetry 
of  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (Cambridge,  1928);  Charles  Cestre,  An  Intro- 
duction to  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (1930);  Robert  P.  T.  Coffin,  New 
Poetry  of  New  England:  Frost  and  Robinson  (Baltimore,  1938);  Yvor  Winters, 
Edwin  Arlington  Robinson  (1947). 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1075 

For  Lizette  Woodworth  Reese:  see  her  autobiography,  A  Victorian  Village 
(1929);  also  Lizette  Woodworth  Reese:  A  Tribute  (Baltimore,  1944)  con- 
taining addresses  at  the  unveiling  of  the  Reese  Memorial  Tablet.  William 
Alexander  Percy's  autobiography  is  entitled  Lanterns  on  the  Levee  (1941). 

For  authoritative  critical  estimates  of  the  dramatists,  see  Arthur  H.  Quinn, 
A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Civil  War  to  the  Present  Day 
(1936).  For  Augustus  Thomas:  his  autobiography  The  Print  of  My 
Remembrance  (1922)  is  the  best  single  source.  A  selection  from  the  plays  of 
Clyde  Fitch  was  edited  by  Montrose  J.  Moses  and  Virginia  Gerson,  4  Vols. 
(1915).  The  same  authors  produced  Clyde  Fitch  and  His  Letters  (Boston, 
1924).  Many  of  his  manuscripts  are  deposited  in  the  Amherst  College  Library. 
For  David  Belasco:  consult  Six  Plays  (Boston,  1928),  ed.  Montrose  J.  Moses 
with  an  Intro,  by  the  author,  and  William  Winter,  The  Life  of  David  Belasco 
(1918).  Belasco's  own  life  story  appeared  in  Hearst's  Magazine,  Vols.  25-28 


CHAPTER    41 

THE  CONSCIENCE  OF  LIBERALISM 

For  the  background  of  the  Reform  Movements  of  the  first  decade  of  the 
century  the  following  books  are  useful:  Burton  J.  Hendrick,  The  Age  of  Big 
Business  (New  Haven,  1919);  C.  C.  Regier,  The  Era  of  the  Muckrakers  (Chapel 
Hill,  N.  C,  1932,  bib.);  Norman  Hapgood,  The  Changing  Years  (1930);  Mark 
Sullivan,  The  Education  of  an  American  (1938);  John  Chamberlain,  Farewell 
to  Reform  (1932);  and  Louis  Filler,  Crusaders  for  A?nerican  Liberalism  (1939). 
For  Edwin  Markham:  a  biography  by  William  L.  Stidger,  Edwin  Markham 
(1933).  See  also  critical  appraisal  by  Jesse  S.  Goldstein,  "Two  Literary 
Radicals:  Garland  and  Markham  in  Chicago,  1893,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  17  (May, 

J945)>  PP-  i52"l6°- 

A  listing  of  William  Vaughn  Moody's  writings  is  contained  in  his  biography 
by  David  D.  Henry,  William  Vaughn  Moody:  A  Study  (Boston,  1934),  pp. 
223-261.  The  Poems  and  Plays,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  191 2),  were  edited  by  John 
M.  Manly;  Selected  Poems  (Boston,  1931 ),  ed.  Robert  M.  Lovett.  The  chief 
collections  of  Moody's  letters  are  Some  Letters  of  William  Vaughn  Moody 
(Boston,  1913),  ed.  Daniel  G.  Mason,  and  Letters  to  Harriet  (Boston,  1935), 
ed.  with  Intro,  by  Percy  MacKaye.  Besides  the  life  by  Henry  mentioned  above, 
Olivia  H.  Dunbar,  A  House  in  Chicago  (Chicago,  1947),  makes  frequent 
mention  of  Moody  in  connection  with  his  wife.  On  Moody's  "Ode  in  Time 
of  Hesitation"  in  particular,  see  F.  H.  Harrington,  "Literary  Aspects  of 
American  Anti-Imperialism,  1898- 1902,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  10  (Dec, 
1937),  pp.  650-667;  D.  M.  McKeithan,  "A  Note  on  William  Vaughn  Moody's 
'Ode  in  Time  of  Hesitation,'"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  9  (Nov.,  1937),  pp.  349-351; 
and  Francis  J.  and  Adaline  Glasheen,  "Moody's  'An  Ode  in  Time  of  Hesita- 
tion,'" College  English,  Vol.  5  (1943),  pp.  1 21-129.  Moody  as  a  dramatist  is 
treated  by  Nash  O.  Barr,  "The  Lyrist  and  Lyric  Dramatist,"  The  Drama,  No. 
2  (May,  191 1 ),  pp.  177-206;  and  C.  H.  Caffin,  "The  Playwright,"  the  same,  pp. 
206-211. 


I076  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

Much  writing  by  the  Muckrakers  remains  in  the  files  of  McClure's  Magazine, 
Arena,  Independent,  Collier's,  Cosmopolitan,  American  Magazine,  and 
Everybody's.  Besides  the  autobiographies  mentioned  in  the  text,  Everett  Rich, 
William  Allen  White  (1941)  is  especially  useful  for  its  bibliographies.  On 
Lincoln  Steffens,  whose  Autobiography  (1931)  throws  much  light  on  the 
reform  movement,  see  C.  A.  Madison,  "Muckraker's  Progress,"  Virginia  Quart. 
Rev.,  Vol.  22  (Summer,  1946),  pp.  405-420. 

For  David  Graham  Phillip's:  consult  the  bibliography  by  Abraham  Feld- 
man,  "David  Graham  Phillips:  His  Works  and  His  Critics,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol. 
19  (May- Aug.,  Sept.-Dec,  1948),  pp.  144-146,  177-179.  Upton  Sinclair 
himself  has  compiled  Books  of  Upton  Sinclair  in  Translations  and  Foreign 
Editions  (Monrovia,  Calif.,  1938),  and  there  is  also  a  bib.  list  by  Joseph  Gaer, 
Upton  Sinclair  (Monograph  No.  6  of  Calif.  Lit.  Research  Project,  1935).  His 
autobiography,  American  Outpost  (1932)  may  be  supplemented  from  his  novel, 
The  Brass  Check  (1919).  Floyd  Dell  has  written  Upton  Sinclair:  A  Study  in 
Social  Protest  (1927),  and  there  is  a  chapter  in  After  the  Genteel  Tradition 
(1936),  ed.  A4alcolm  Cowley.  Robert  Herrick  seems  oddly  neglected  by 
literary  students.  An  early  appreciation  is  by  William  Dean  Howells,  "The 
Novels  of  Robert  Herrick,"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  189  (June,  1909),  pp. 
812-820,  and  a  recent  one  is  Newton  Arvin,  "Homage  to  Robert  Herrick," 
New  Republic,  Vol.  82  (March  6,  1935),  pp.  93-95. 

Moody  as  dramatist  is  listed  above.  For  Josephine  Preston  Peabody:  the 
most  available  source  is  Collected  Plays  (Boston,  1927).  Her  Diary  and  Letters 
(1925),  ed.  Christina  H.  Baker,  contains  biographical  information.  Mary 
Austin  has  written  an  autobiography  entitled  Earth  Horizon  (1932).  For  the 
most  representative  work  of  Percy  MacKaye:  see  his  Poems  and  Plays,  2  Vols. 
(191 6).  An  estimate  of  his  work  at  a  later  period  is  in  Thomas  H.  Dickinson, 
Playwrights  of  the  New  American  Theater  (1925),  pp.  1-55. 

For  Randolph  Bourne:  essays  published  posthumously  as  Untimely  Papers 
(191 9),  ed.  James  Oppenheim,  and  History  of  a  Literary  Radical:  And 
Other  Essays  (1920),  ed.  Van  Wyck  Brooks.  Letters  collected  as  follows  in 
Twice  a  Year:  "Randolph  Bourne:  Some  Pre-War  Letters,  1912-1914,"  No.  2 
(1939),  pp.  79-102;  "Randolph  Bourne:  Letters,  1913-1914,"  Nos.  5-6  (1940- 
41),  pp.  79-80,  and  "Diary  for  1901,"  pp.  89-98;  "Randolph  Bourne:  Letters, 
1913-1914,"  No.  7  (1941),  pp.  76-90.  The  best  critical  study  is  Louis  Filler, 
Randolph  Bourne  (Washington,  1943,  bib.).  Consult  also  Max  Lerner, 
"Randolph  Bourne  and  Two  Generations,"  Twice  a  Year,  Nos.  y^  ( 1940-41 ), 
pp.  54-78;  Van  Wyck  Brooks,  Emerson  and  Others  (1927),  pp.  1 21-145;  Pau^ 
Rosenfeld,  "Randolph  Bourne,"  Dial,  Vol.  75  (Dec,  1923),  pp.  545-560. 

For  Joyce  Kilmer:  see  R.  C.  Holliday,  Joyce  Kilmer  (1918),  and  Annie  K. 
Kilmer,  Memories  of  My  Son,  Sergeant  Joyce  Kilmer  (1920).  Poems  of  the 
First  World  War  are  collected  in  C.  E.  Andrews,  From  the  Front:  Trench 
Poetry  (1918);  G.  H.  Clarke,  Treasury  of  War  Poetry  (Boston,  1917;  second 
series,  191 9). 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1077 

CHAPTER    42 

SPOKESMEN  OF  THE  PLAIN  PEOPLE 

Books  on  American  Humor  which  cover  in  part  the  period  since  1900  are: 
Walter  Blair,  Horse  Sense  in  American  Humor  from  Benjamin  Franklin  to 
Ogden  Nash  (Chicago,  1943);  Thomas  L.  Masson,  Our  American  Humorists 
(rev.  edition,  193 1 ). 

For  Finley  Peter  Dunne  ("Mr.  Dooley"),  selections  from  his  work  have 
appeared  as  Finley  Peter  Dunne:  Mr.  Dooley  at  His  Best  (1938),  ed.  Elmer 
Ellis,  with  a  foreword  by  Franklin  P.  Adams.  Ellis  has  also  written  a 
biography,  Mr.  D 00 ley's  America:  A  Life  of  Finley  Peter  Dunne  (1941), 
containing  Dunne's  unfinished  memoirs.  For  Will  Rogers:  the  only  books  of 
importance  are  P.  J.  O'Brien,  Will  Rogers  (1935),  and  The  Autobiography  of 
Will  Rogers,  ed.  Donald  Day  (Boston,  1949).  For  George  Ade,  a  list  of 
writings  by  him  and  about  him  is  Dorothy  R.  Russo,  A  Bibliography  of 
George  Ade  (Indianapolis,  1947).  A  recent  biographical  study  is  Fred  C. 
Kelly,  George  Ade:  Warm  Hearted  Satirist  (Indianapolis,  1947).  Among 
critical  estimates,  see  Carl  Van  Doren,  "Old  Wisdom  in  a  New  Tongue: 
George  Ade,"  in  Many  Minds  (1924);  H.  L.  Mencken,  "George  Ade,"  in 
Prejudices:  First  Series  (1919). 

A  great  deal  too  much  has  been  written  about  William  Sydney  Porter 
("O.  Henry").  The  best  list  of  his  writings  is  by  Paul  S.  Clarkson,  A  Bibliog- 
raphy of  William  Sydney  Porter  (O.  Henry),  (Caldwell,  Ida.,  1938); 
additions  and  corrections  have  been  made  by  Hyder  E.  Rollins  in  his  review, 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  11  (March,  1939),  pp.  107-109.  See  also  O.  Henry  Papers 
(Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1925),  pp.  42-44.  Besides  The  Complete  Writings  of  O. 
Henry,  14  Vols.  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  191 7)  and  O.  Henry  Biographical 
Edition,  18  Vols.  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1929),  the  Complete  Works  have  twice 
been  printed  in  one-volume  editions  (1927,  1937).  From  Garden  City  have 
emanated  also  Selected  Stories  from  O.  Henry  (1922),  ed.  C.  Alphonso  Smith, 
and  Heart  of  the  West,  2  Vols.  (1925),  ed.  Hyder  E.  Rollins.  Voice  of  the 
City  (1935),  with  Intro,  by  Clifton  Fadiman,  and  Best  Short  Stories  of  O. 
Henry  (1945),  selected,  with  Intro,  by  Bennett  Cerf  and  Van  H.  Cartmell 
(Modern  Library)  provide  a  liberal  sampling  of  this  popular  writer.  Clarence 
Gohdes  has  collected  "Some  Letters  by  O.  Henry,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol. 
38  (Jan.,  1939),  pp.  31-39-  The  authorized  life,  C.  Alphonso  Smith,  O.  Henry 
Biography  (1916),  may  be  supplemented  by  Al  Jennings,  Through  the  Shadows 
with  O.  Henry  (1921);  O.  Henry  Papers  (1925);  Robert  H.  Davis  and  Arthur 
B.  Maurice,  The  Caliph  of  Bagdad  ( 193 1 );  and  William  W.  Williams,  "The 
Quiet  Lodger  of  Irving  Place,"  Amer.  Book  Coll.,  Vol.  5  (1934),  pp.  72-76,  118- 
122,  136-139.  Two  critical  studies  out  of  many  are  Fred  L.  Pattee,  "The  Age 
of  O.  Henry,"  in  Side-Lights  on  American  Literature  (1922),  and  Archibald 
Henderson,  "O.  Henry:  A  Contemporary  Classic,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol. 
22  (July,  1923),  pp.  270-278. 

For  Booth  Tarkington:  there  exists  Barton  Currie,  Booth  Tarkington:  A 
Bibliography  (1932).  Letters  to  a  nephew  have  been  collected  as  Your  Amiable 
Uncle:  Booth   Tarkington    (Indianapolis,    1949).   Slight  biographical   sketches 


io78  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

have  been  composed  by  Robert  C.  Holliday  (191 8)  and  Asa  D.  Dickinson 
(1926).  Critical  comment  is  best  supplied  by  Percy  H.  Boynton,  Some  Con- 
temporary Americans  (Chicago,  1924),  pp.  108-125. 

Data  on  Louis  Bromfield  are  to  be  found  in  French  as  well  as  American 
periodicals.  See  Merle  Derrenbacher,  "Louis  Bromfield:  A  Bibliography,"  Bull, 
of  Bib.,  Vol.  17  (Sept.-Dec,  1941,  Jan. -April,  1942),  pp.  112,  141 -145;  Anon., 
"Louis  Bromfield,"  Current  Biog.,  Vol.  5  (July,  1944),  pp.  8-1 1;  Henry  Bor- 
deaux, "Un  Nouveau  Romancier  Americain:  Louis  Bromfield,"  Revue  Heb- 
domadaire  (May  16,  193 1),  pp.  267-275;  Louis  Gillet,  "Terre  d'Amerique,'1 
Revue  des  Deux  Mondes,  Vol.  18  (Nov.  1,  1933),  pp.  201-212.  Ben  R.  Redman 
has  done  a  pamphlet  sketch  entitled  Louis  Bromfield  and  His  Books  (1928). 

There  is  little  to  be  found  on  Pearl  S.  Buck.  She  has  herself  contributed 
an  autobiographical  paper,  "The  Writing  of  East  Wind,  West  Wind"  Colo- 
phon, Part  12,  Art.  6,  pp.  1-4  (1932).  Dorothy  Canfield  Fisher  has  prepared  a 
leaflet  entitled  "The  Fighting  Angel  and  The  Exile  by  Pearl  S.  Buck"  (1936). 
For  criticism,  see  Phyllis  Bentley,  "The  Art  of  Pearl  S.  Buck,"  English  Journal, 
Vol.  24  (Dec,  1935),  pp.  791-800;  Stephen  V.  and  Rosemary  Benet,  "Two- 
World  Success  Story:  Pearl  Buck,"  N.  Y.  Herald-Tribune  Books,  Vol.  8  (Jan. 
18,  1942),  p.  21. 

For  Vachel  Lindsay:  an  annotated  bibliography  may  be  found  in  Harry  H. 
Clark,  ed.,  Major  A?nerican  Poets  (1936),  pp.  929-931.  The  Collected  Poems 
(1923)  was  revised  and  illustrated  when  reissued  in  1925.  A  selection,  The 
Daniel  Jazz  and  Other  Poems  appeared  in  London  (1920),  and  Selected  Poems 
in  the  Modern  Readers'  Series,  with  Intro,  by  Hazelton  Spencer  (1931). 
Letters  of  Nicholas  Vachel  Lindsay  to  A.  Joseph  Armstrong  (Waco,  Tex., 
1940)  was  edited  by  the  recipient.  The  best  life,  Edgar  Lee  Masters,  Vachel 
Lindsay:  A  Poet  in  America  (1935),  may  be  supplemented  by  Lindsay's  own 
Adventures  While  Preaching  the  Gospel  of  Beauty  (1914)  and  A  Handy 
Guide  for  Beggars  (1916).  Valuable  also  are  Stephen  Graham,  Tramping  with 
a  Poet  in  the  Rockies  (1922);  Albert  E.  Trombly,  Vachel  Lindsay,  Adventurer 
(Columbia,  Mo.,  1929);  Aubrey  Starke  and  others,  "They  Knew  Vachel 
Lindsay:  A  Symposium  of  Personal  Reminiscences,"  Latin  Quarterly,  Vol. 
1  (Autumn,  1934),  pp.  128-140.  For  early  criticism,  consult  the  Intro,  by 
Harriet  Monroe  for  The  Co?igo  and  Other  Poems  (191 4);  Marianne  Moore, 
"An  Eagle  in  the  Ring,"  Dial,  Vol.  75  (Nov.,  1923),  pp.  498-505;  Herbert  S. 
Gorman,  "Vachel  Lindsay,  Evangelist  of  Poetry,"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  219 
{)<\n.,  1924),  pp.  123-  128;  Carl  Van  Doren,  in  Many  Minds  (1924),  pp.  151-166; 
Edward  Davison,  "Nicholas  Vachel  Lindsay,"  in  Contemporary  American 
Authors  (1928),  ed.  J.  C.  Squire.  Later  estimates  include:  Henry  M.  Robinson, 
"The  Ordeal  of  Vachel  Lindsay,"  Bookman,  Vol.  75  (April,  1932),  pp.  6-9; 
William  R.  Moses,  "Vachel  Lindsay:  Ferment  of  a  Poet's  Mind,"  Southern 
Rev.,  Vol.  1  (Spring,  1936),  pp.  828-836;  Austin  Warren,  "The  Case  of  Vachel 
Lindsay,"  Accent,  Vol.  6  (1946),  pp.  230-239. 

lor  Carl  Sandburg:  a  book  list  to  its  date  has  been  compiled  by  William 
P.  Schenk,  "Carl  Sandburg:  A  Bibliography,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  16  (Sept.- 
Dec,  1936),  pp.  4-7.  Selected  Poems  of  Carl  Sandburg  (London,  1926),  ed. 
with  Intro,  by  Rebecca  West;  Early  Moon  (1930),  a  selection  for  children;  and 
I  Ionic  Front  Memo  (1943),  a  gathering  up  of  miscellaneous  writings,  are  re- 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1079 

prints  of  matter  previously  published.  A  narrative  life  by  Karl  W.  Detzer, 
Carl  Sandburg:  A  Study  in  Personality  and  Background  (1941)  is  the  best 
yet  available.  A  sympathetic  early  estimate  of  Sandburg's  poetry  appeared  in 
Amy  Lowell,  Tendencies  in  Modern  American  Poetry  (Boston,  191 7);  see 
also,  Harry  Hansen,  in  Midwest  Portraits  (1923),  pp.  15-91;  Carl  Van  Doren, 
in  Many  Minds  (1924),  pp.  i}6-i5o;  Paul  Rosenfeld,  "Carl  Sandburg,"  in  Port 
of  New  York  (1924),  pp.  65-81.  Representative  later  commentaries  are: 
Howard  M.  Jones,  "Backgrounds  of  Sorrow,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  3 
(Jan.,  1927),  pp.  1 1 1- 1 23;  Charles  H.  Compton,  "Who  Reads  Carl  Sandburg?" 
South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  28  (April,  1929),  pp.  190-200;  Morton  D.  Zabel, 
"Sandburg's  Testament,"  Poetry,  Vol.  49  (Oct.,  1936),  pp.  33-45;  Newton 
Arvin,  "Carl  Sandburg,"  in  After  the  Genteel  Tradition  (1936),  ed.  Mal- 
colm Cowley. 

CHAPTER    43 

RESPECTABILITY  DEFIED 

The  bibliography  of  Jack  London  remains  to  be  done.  A  mimeographed  work- 
ing list  has  been  compiled  by  Joseph  Gaer,  Jack  London  (1934),  Monograph 
No.  1  of  California  Literary  Research  Project.  A  "Jack  London  Bibliography" 
is  also  given  by  Charmian  London,  The  Book  of  Jack  London  (1921),  Vol/2, 
PP-  3 97-4 1 4-  Representative  of  many  selections  from  London's  stories  and 
assays  are  The  Son  of  the  Wolf  (Boston,  1930),  Riverside  Library;  The  Call 
of  the  Wild  and  Other  Stories  (1935),  ed.  Frank  L.  Mott,  Modern  Readers' 
Series;  Best  Short  Stories  of  Jack  London  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1945);  London's 
Essays  of  Revolt  (1926),  ed.  Leonard  D.  Abbott;  Jack  London:  American  Rebel 
(1947),  ed.  with  Intro,  by  Philip  S.  Foner.  The  principal  biographies  have  been 
written  by  London's  wife  and  daughter  and  are  not  objective:  Charmian  Lon- 
lon,  The  Book  of  Jack  London,  2  Vols.  (1921);  Joan  London,  Jack  London 
ind  His  Times  (1939).  Irving  Stone,  Sailor  on  Horseback:  The  Biography  of 
tack  London  (Boston,  1938)  is  a  popular  but  independent  treatment.  Consult 
dso  London's  autobiographical  John  Barleycorn  (1913);  Charmian  London, 
The  Log  of  the  Snark  (1915);  and  Martin  E.  Johnson,  Through  the  South  Seas 
Jjith  Jack  London  (191 3).  For  literary  criticism,  an  important  paper  is  Charles 
:.  Walcutt,  "Naturalism  and  the  Superman  in  the  Novels  of  Jack  London," 
Dapers  Mich.  Acad.  Science,  Arts  and  Letters,  Vol.  24  (1938),  Pt.  IV,  pp. 
{9-107.  The  most  thoroughgoing  literary  study  is  by  Margaret  I.  Pope,  "Jack 
^ondon:  A  Study  in  Twentieth-Century  Values,"  (Univ.  of  Wisconsin,  1935, 
mpublished  thesis). 

For  Theodore  Dreiser:  an  incomplete  listing  of  his  works  is  Edward  D. 
McDonald,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  Theodore  Dreiser  (Phila- 
lelphia,  1928),  for  which  additions  and  corrections  are  given  in  Vrest  Orton, 
>eiseriana  (1929).  The  Best  Short  Stories  of  Theodore  Dreiser  (Cleveland! 
947),  ed.  Howard  Fast,  is  the  most  available  volume  of  selections.  Dreiser's 
wn  autobiographical  books  should  be  read  in  the  following  order:  Dawn 
193 1 ),  A  Book  about  Myself  (1922;  reissued  as  Newspaper  Days,  193 1),  A 
traveller  at  Forty  (191 3),  A  Ho  osier  Holiday  (1916).  See  also  "The  E^rly 
adventures  of  Sister  Carrie,"  Colophon,  Pt.  5   (1931),  pp.  1-4.  A  recent  bi- 


Io8o  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

ography  is  Robert  H.  Elias,  Theodore  Dreiser:  Apostle  of  Nature  (1949). 
Also  announced  are  F.  O.  Matthiessen's  volume  in  the  New  American  Men  of 
Letters  series,  and  the  Correspondence  soon  to  be  edited  by  Robert  E.  Spiller 
and  Sculley  Bradley.  Worth  reading  is  H.  L.  Mencken,  "The  Life  of  an  Artist," 
New  Yorker,  Vol.  24  (April  17,  1948),  pp.  43-57.  Dreiser's  manuscripts  have 
been  deposited  in  the  Univ.  of  Pennsylvania  Library.  Mencken  was  the  first 
critic  to  give  Dreiser  cordial  recognition,  in  A  Book  of  Prefaces  (191 7),  pp. 
67-148.  A  book  centering  about  him  is  Dorothy  Dudley,  Forgotten  Frontiers: 
Dreiser  and  the  Land  of  the  Free  (1932).  Among  recent  studies  may  be  men- 
tioned Charles  C.  Walcutt,  "The  Three  Stages  of  Theodore  -Dreiser's  Natural- 
ism," PMLA,  Vol.  55  (1940),  pp.  266-289;  Woodburn  O.  Ross,  "Concerning 
Dreiser's  Mind,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  18  (Nov.,  1946),  pp.  233-243;  Lionel  Trilling, 
"Dreiser  and  the  Liberal  Mind,"  Nation,  Vol.  162  (April  20,  1946),  pp.  466,  468- 
472;  John  T.  Flanagan,  "Theodore  Dreiser  in  Retrospect,"  Southwest  Rev., 
Vol.  31  (Autumn.  1946),  pp.  408-411. 

For  James  T.  Farrell:  see  Studs  Lonigan:  A  Trilogy,  reprinted  with  Intro, 
by  the  author  in  the  Modern  Library  (1938);  also  The  Short  Stories  of  James  T. 
Farrell  (1937)  and  Fifteen  Selected  Stories  (1943).  A  note  on  his  own  fictional 
technique  is  "A  Novelist  Begins,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  162  (Sept.,  1938),  pp. 
330-334.  Critical  papers  on  Farrell  include  Robert  M.  Lovett,  "James  T.  Far- 
rell," English  Journal,  Vol.  26  (May,  1937),  pp.  347"354;  Ruth  Hatfield,  "The 
Intellectual  Honesty  of  James  T.  Farrell,"  College  English,  Vol.  3  (Jan.,  1942), 

PP.  337-346. 

For  Thorstein  Veblen:  who  has  received  less  than  his  due  from  literary 
scholars,  there  is  H.  W.  Innes,  "A  Bibliography  of  Thorstein  Veblen,"  South- 
western Vol.  and  Soc.  Science  Quart.,  Vol.  10  (1929-30),  pp.  56-68.  The 
best  biographical  study  is  Joseph  Dorfman,  Thorstein  Veblen  and  His  America 
(i934),Dand  see  also  R.  V.  Teggart,  "Thorstein  Veblen,"  Univ.  of  Calif.  Tub. 
in  Economics,  Vol.  11  (1932). 

For  Henry  Lewis  Mencken:  the  only  attempt  at  compiling  a  list  of  his 
writings  is  badly  out  of  date,  Carroll  Frey,  A  Bibliography  of  .  .  .  H.  L. 
Mencken  (Philadelphia,  1924).  Selected  Prejudices  (193°)  has  appeared  in 
Modern  Library.  A  more  inclusive  volume  of  reprinted  material  is  The  H.  L. 
Mencken  Chrestomathy  (1949).  Three  volumes  of  autobiography,  Happy 
Days  (1940),  Newspaper  Days  (1941),  and  Heathen  Days  (1943)  have  been 
reissued  (1947)  as  one.  George  J.  Nathan,  The  Intimate  Notebooks  of  George 
jean  Nathan  (1932)  contain  many  references  to  Mencken.  The  only  book  with 
biographical  pretensions  is  Isaac  Goldberg,  The  Man  Mencken  (1925).  Few 
writers  have  been  more  subject  than  Mencken  to  critical  boom  and  blast, 
and  few  have  more  gleefully  invited  it.  For  fairly  unbiased  views,  see  James 
B.  Cabell,  Some  of  Us  (1930),  pp.  107-118;  Emily  Clark,  Innocence  Abroad 
(193 1),  pp.  109-126;  Louis  Kronenberger,  "H.  L.  Mencken,"  in  After  the 
Genteel  Tradition  (1936),  ed.  Malcolm  Cowley,  pp.  ioo-m;  and  Bernard 
Smith,  Forces  in  American  Criticism  (1939),  pp.  304-3 I2- 

For  Sinclair  Lewis:  the  best  bibliography  is  that  compiled  by  Harvey 
Taylor  for  Carl  Van  Doren,  Sinclair  Lewis  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1933 ),  pp. 
177-187.  Many  items  have  appeared  since  this  listing  was  made.  The  Nobel 
Fri/.e  Edition  of  Sinclair  Lewis  consisted  of  four  novels:  Main  Street,  Babbitt, 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1081 

Elmer  Gantry,  Dodsworth  (1931).  Babbitt  (1942)  and  Arrowsmith  (1933) 
are  available  in  the  Modern  Library.  Two  collections  of  Lewis's  short  stories 
have  been  issued,  but  these  are  negligible.  Among  important  critical  appraisals 
should  be  mentioned:  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  The  Significance  of  Sinclair  Lewis 
(1922,  pamphlet);  Vernon  L.  Parrington,  Sinclair  Lewis:  Our  Own  Diogenes 
(Seattle,  1927,  pamphlet);  Emory  S.  Bogardus,  "Social  Distances  in  Fiction: 
Analysis  of  Main  Street;'  Sociology  and  Social  Res.,  Vol.  9  (Nov.,  1929),  pp. 
174-180;  Christian  S.  Gauss,  "Sinclair  Lewis  vs.  His  Education,"  Sat.  Eve.  host, 
Vol.  204  (Dec.  26,  193 1 ),  pp.  20-21,  54-56;  Howard  M.  Jones,  "Mr.  Lewis's 
America,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  7  (July,  193 1),  pp.  427-432;  Harry  L. 
Binsse  and  John  J.  Trounstine,  "Europe  Looks  at  Sinclair  Lewis,"  Bookman, 
Vol.  72  (Jan.,  193 1 ),  pp.  453-457;  Carl  Van  Doren,  Sinclair  Lewis:  A  Bi- 
ographical Sketch  (Garden  City,  N.  Y,  1933);  Lloyd  R.  Morris,  "Sinclair 
Lewis:  His  Critics  and  His  Public,"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  245  (Summer, 
1938),  pp.  381-390;  Thomas  D.  Horton,  "Sinclair  Lewis:  The  Symbol  of  an 
Era,"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  248  (Winter,  1939),  pp.  374-393. 

For  Zona  Gale:  August  Derleth  has  written  Still  Small  Voice:  The  Bi- 
ography of  Zona  Gale  (1940),  containing  her  own  unfinished  autobiography. 
Further  reminiscences  are  provided  by  two  of  her  books,  When  I  Was  a 
Little  Girl  (1913)  and  Portage,  Wisconsin,  and  Other  Essays  (1928).  For 
criticism,  see  Wilson  Follett,  Zona  Gale:  An  Artist  in  Fiction  (1923,  pamphlet). 

For  Marc  Connelly  and  George  S.  Kaufman:  see  Bibliography  for  Chap- 
ter 49. 

For  George  Kelly:  some  representative  critical  discussions  are  Carl  Carmer, 
"George  Kelly,"  Theatre  Arts  Monthly,,  Vol.  15  (April,  1931),  pp.  322-330; 
Joseph  W.  Krutch,  "The  Austerity  of  George  Kelly,"  Nation,  Vol.  137  (Aug.' 
3°,  1933),  PP-  240-242;  John  Van  Druten,  "Small  Souls  and  Great  Plays," 
Theatre  Arts  Monthly,  Vol.  n  (July,  1927),  pp.  493-498;  Kenneth  White, 
"George  Kelly  and  Dramatic  Device,"  Hound  and  Horn,  Vol.  4  (April-June, 
I93I)^PP- 384-4oo. 

CHAPTER    44 

IMPRESSIONISTS  AND  EXPERIMENTERS 

The  general  background  for  these  writers  is  best  given  in  Edmund  Wilson, 
AxeVs  Castle  (1931). 

For  James  Gibbons  Huneker:  a  selection  of  his  writings  has  been  issued 
as  Essays  by  James  Huneker  (1929),  ed.  H.  L.  Mencken.  Two  volumes  of 
letters  have  been  collected  by  his  wife,  Letters  of  James  Gibbons  Huneker 
(1922)  and  Intimate  Letters  of  James  Gibbons  Huneker  (1924),  both  ed. 
Josephine  Huneker.  A  short  study  by  Benjamin  de  Casseres,  James  Gibbons 
Huneker  (1925)  may  be  supplemented  by  Huneker's  rambling  autobiography, 
Steeplejack,  2  Vols.  (1920).  Appreciations  by  Mencken  may  be  found  in 
A  Book  of  Prefaces  (1917),  PP-  i5I~I94»  an^  Prejudices,  3rd  series  (1922),  pp. 
65-83.  For  critical  appraisal,  see  George  E.  DeMille,  Literary  Criticism  in 
America  (1931),  pp.  206-244;  Bernard  Smith,  "Huneker,  Man  of  the  Tribe," 
Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  10  (Aug.  19,  1933);  Albert  Parry,  Garrets  and  Pretenders 
0933),  PP-  114-119- 


Io82  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

For  Ezra  Pound:  a  collection  of  five  books  of  poems  is  Per  some:  The  Col- 
lected Poems  (1926).  Selected  Poems  (1928)  was  edited  by  T.  S.  Eliot.  Cantos 
(1949)  includes  eighty-four  sections  of  a  projected  one  hundred.  A  collection 
of  Pound  letters  in  manuscript  is  in  the  Lockwood  Memorial  Library  of  the 
University  of  Buffalo.  Alice  S.  Amdur,  The  Poetry  of  Ezra  Pound  (Cambridge, 
1936),  besides  being  one  of  the  best  critical  studies,  contains  a  checklist 
of  works  by  and  about  him,  pp.  103-106.  Further  criticism  is  supplied  by 
T.  S.  Eliot,' Ezra  Pound:  His  Metric  and  Poetry  (1917,  pamphlet);  Conrad 
Aiken,  Skepticisms  (1919)1  PP-  136-142;  Harriet  Monroe,  Poets  and  Their  Art 
(1926),  pp.  12-20;  Rene  Taupin,  Vlnfluence  du  Symbolisme  Frangais  sur  la 
Poesie  Americaine  (Paris,  1929),  pp.  133-158;  Louis  Zukovsky,  "The  Cantos 
of  Ezra  Pound,"  Criterion,  Vol.  10  (April,  193 1 ),  pp.  424~44<>;  Marianne  Moore, 
-The  Cantos,"  Poetry,  Vol.  39  (Oct.,  1931),  pp.  37-50;  Dudley  Fitts,  "Music 
Fit  for  the  Odes,"  Hound  and  Horn,  Vol.  4  (Jan.-March,  193 1),  pp.  278-289; 
F.  R.  Leavis,  New  Bearings  in  English  Poetry  (London,  1932),  pp.  133-157; 
Edith  Sitwell,  Aspects  of  Modern  Poetry  (London,  1934),  pp.  178-214;  Richard 
P.  Blackmur,  The  Double  Agent  (1935).  PP-  3°-67;  T.  S.  Eliot,  "Ezra  Pound," 
Poetry,  Vol.  68  (Sept.,  1946),  pp.  326-339;  C.  Norman  and  others,  The  Case 
of  Ezra  Pound  (1948);  D.  D.  Paige  and  others,  Ezra  Pound  Issue,  Quart.  Rev. 
Lit.,  Vol.  5,  No.  2  (1949).  Mr.  Paige  has  edited  The  Letters  of  Ezra  Pound 

For  the  Imagists  in  general:  see  the  history  of  the  movement  by  (jlenn 
Hughes,  Imagism  and  the  Imagists:  A  Study  in  Modern  Poetry  (Stanford 
Univ.,  Calif.,  1931,  bib.),  Harriet  Monroe's  autobiography,  A  Poet's  Life  (1938), 
and  the  file  of  Poetry:  A  Magazine  of  Verse  during  its  first  decade,  1912-22.  ^ 

For  Amy  Lowell:  consult  Frances  Kemp,  "A  Bibliography  of  Amy  Lowell," 
Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  15  (1933-34),  PP-  8-9,  25-26,  50-53.  Selected  Poems  (Boston, 
1928)  was  edited  by  John  L.  Lowes.  Florence  Ayscough  and  Amy  Lowell:  Cor- 
respondence of  a  Friendship  (Chicago,  1945),  ed.  Harley  F.  MacNair,  consists 
of  letters  from  the  period  1917-25.  The  bulk  of  Miss  Lowell's  manuscripts  are 
deposited  in  the  Harvard  University  Library.  S.  Foster  Damon,  Amy  Lowell 
(Boston,  1935)  is  the  standard,  in  fact  the  only,  biography.  Appreciations  and 
critical  studies  include  Archibald  MacLeish,  "Amy  Lowell  and  the  Art  of 
Poetry,"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  221  (March,  1925),  pp.  5°8"521;  John  L- 
Lowes,  "The  Poetry  of  Amy  Lowell,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  2  (Oct.  3,  1925), 
pp.  169-170,  174-175;  Charles  Cestre,  "L'CEuvre  Poetique  d'Amy  Lowell," 
Revue  Anglo-Amer.,  Vol.  2  (Aug.,  1925),  pp.  481-500;  Clement  Wood,  Amy 
Lowell  (1926);  Elizabeth  S.  Sergeant,  Fire  Under  the  Andes  (1927),  PP-  ll~32' 
Winfield  T.  Scott,  "Amy  Lowell  After  Ten  Years,"  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  8  (Aug.,  1939),  pp.  320-330;  Louis  Untermeyer,  From  Another  World 

(1939),  pp.  99-125- 

For  John  Gould  FLETCHER:the  Selected  Poems  (1938)  offer  the  most  readily 
available  body  of  poetry.  His  autobiography,  Life  is  My  Song  (1937)  gives  an 
excellent  account  of  the  life  of  an  expatriate  in  Paris.  His  work  has  been 
assessed  by  Amy  Lowell,  Tendencies  in  Modern  American  Poetry  (Boston, 
1917),  PP-  235-343;  Conrad  Aiken,  Skepticisms  (1919)1  PP-  io5-ij4;  Harriet 
Monroe,  Poets  and  Their  Art  (1926),  pp.  86-91;  Robert  P.  Warren,  "A  Note 
on  Three  Southern  Poets,"  Poetry,  Vol.  40  (May,  1932),  pp.  103-113;  Richard 
P.   Blackmur,   "Versions   of   Fletcher,"   Poetry,   Vol.   47    (March,    1936),   pp. 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1083 

344-347;  Baucum  Fulkerson,  "John  Gould  Fletcher,"  Seivanee  Rev.,  Vol.  46 
(July-Sept.,  1938),  pp.  275-287. 

For  Hilda  Doolittle  ("ED."):  Collected  Poems  (1925)  was  reprinted 
(1940).  H.D.  shares  with  Fletcher  the  chapter  in  Amy  Lowell's  Tendencies 
mentioned  above.  For  other  appraisals  see,  John  G.  Fletcher,  "From  75  b.c. 
to  1925  a.d.,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  3  (Jan.  1,  1927),  p.  482;  H.  P.  Collins,  Modern 
Poetry  (1925),  pp.  154-202;  Douglas  Bush,  Mythology  and  the  Romantic 
Tradition  in  English  Poetry  (Cambridge,  1937),  pp.  497-506;  Frank  A.  Dog- 
gett,  "H.D.:  A  Study  in  Sensitivity,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  37  (Jan.-March, 
1929),  pp.  i-9;  Richard  P.  Blackmur,  "The  Lesser  Satisfactions,"  Poetry,  Vol! 
41    (Nov.,   1932),  pp.  94-100. 

For   Gertrude   Stein:    ample   bibliographical   information   is    contained    in 
Robert  B.  Haas  and  Donald  C.  Gallup,  A  Catalogue  of  the  Published  and  Un- 
published Writings  of  Gertrude  Stein:  Exhibited  in  the  Yale  University  Library 
22  February   to   29  March    1941    (New   Haven,    1941),   and   Julian   Sawyer, 
"Gertrude   Stem  ...  A   Check-List   Comprising   Critical   and    Miscellaneous 
Writings  About  Her  Work,  Life,  and  Personality  from  191 3  to  1942,"  Bull,  of 
Bib.,  Vol.  17  (Jan.-April,  1943),  PP-  211-212,  Vol.  18  (May-Aug.,  i943),  pp. 
n-13,  Vol.   19   (Jan.-April,   1948),  pp.   128-131;  "Gertrude  Stein:   A  Bibliog- 
raphy 1941-1948,"  Vol.  19  (May-Aug.,  1948),  pp.  152-156  (Sept.-Dec,  1948), 
pp.    183-187.   A   reprint   of   Three   Lives    (1933)    is   in   the   Modern   Library 
with  Intro,  by  Carl  Van  Vechten,  who  has  also  edited  Selected   Writings 
(1946).  Miss  Stein's  disguised  narrative  of  her  life,   The  Autobiography  of 
Alice  B.  Toklas  (1933),  may  be  supplemented  by  Bravig  Imbs,  Confessions 
of  Another  Young  Man  (1936),  and  by  William  G.  Rogers,  When  This  You 
See  Remember  Me:  Gertrude  Stein  in  Person  (1947).  For  critical  comment 
see  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  Points  of  View  (1924),  pp.  261-268;  Paul  Rosenfeld' 
By  Way  of  Art  (1928),  pp.  m-131;  Edmund  Wilson,  Axel's  Castle  (1931),  pp. 
237-256;  Edith  Sitwell,  Aspects  of  Modern  Poetry  (London,  1934),  pp.  215- 
226;  Harvey  Eagleston,  "Gertrude  Stein:  Method  in  Madness,"  Sewanee  Rev., 
Vol.  44  (April-June,  1936),  pp.  164-177;  Thornton  Wilder,  Intro,  to  Gertrude 
Stein's  Four  in  America  (New  Haven,  1947),  PP-  v-xxvii;  Katherine  A.  Porter 
"Gertrude  Stein:  A  Self -Portrait,"  Harper's,  Vol.  195  (Dec,  1947),  PP-  519- 
528. 

For  Conrad  Aiken:  the  only  authority  is  Houston  Peterson,  Melody  of 
Chaos  (193 1 ).  Further  criticism  may  be  found  in  Stanley  J.  Kunitz,  "The 
Poetry  of  Conrad  Aiken,"  Nation,  Vol.  133  (Oct.  14,  i93i),  pp.  393-395; 
Marianne  Moore,  "If  a  Man  Die,"  Hound  and  Horn,  Vol.  5  (Jan.-March,' 
1932),  PP-  313-320;  Clayton  Hoagland,  "Explorer  of  the  Ego,"  South.  Lit.  Mess., 
Vol.  2  (April,  1940),  pp.  259-263;  George  Edison,  "Thematic  Symbols  in  the 
Poetry  of  Aiken  and  MacLeish,"  Univ.  Toronto  Quart.,  Vol.  10  (Oct.,  1940), 
pp.  12-26. 

For  Archibald  MacLeish:  a  collector's  bibliography  has  been  prepared  by 
Arthur  Mizener,  Catalogue  of  the  First  Editions  of  Archibald  MacLeish  (New 
Haven,  1938),  and  there  is  a  checklist  by  Gerrish  Thurber,  "MacLeish  Pub- 
lished Books,"  Library  Journal,  Vol.  64  (1939),  pp.  864,  866.  Collections  of 
poetry  and  prose  are  as  follows:  Poems,  1924-1933  (Boston,  1933);  A  Time  to 
Speak:  The  Selected  Prose  (Boston,  1941);  A  Time  to  Act:  Selected  Addresses 


Io84  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

(Boston  1943);  The  American  Story:  Ten  Broadcasts  (1944)-  He  has  con- 
tributed'"Modern  Instances:  Notebooks,  1924-1938,"  to  Poetry,  Vol.  73  (Oct.- 
Nov  1948),  pp.  33-42,  88-96.  Criticism  in  the  process  of  attaining  perspective 
may  be  represented  by  Arthur  Mizener,  "The  Poetry  of  Archibald  MacLeish," 
Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  44  (Oct.,  1938),  pp.  501-519;  Dayton  Kohler,  "MacLeish 
and  the  Modern  Temper,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  38  (Oct.,  1939),  pp. 
416-426-  Eleanor  M.  Sickels,  "Archibald  MacLeish  and  American  Democracy," 
Avier.  Lit.,  Vol.  15  (Nov.,  1943),  PP-  "3-237;  H>^att  H'  Waggoner'  "Archibald 
MacLeish  and  the  Aspect  of  Eternity,"  College  English,  Vol.  4  (April,  1943), 
pp.  402-412. 

CHAPTER    45 

ANALYSTS  OF  DECAY 

No  attempt  at  a  collected  edition  of  the  works  of  Edgar  Lee  Masters  has 
been  made,  except  Selected  Poems  (1925).  His  autobiography,  Across  Spoon 
River  (1936),  pictures  a  whole  group  of  Chicago  writers.  It  may  be  supple- 
mented by  his  articles,  "Introduction  to  Chicago,"  Amer.  Mercury,  Vol.  31 
(1934),  pp.  49-59,  and  "The  Genesis  of  Spoon  River,"  the  same,  Vol.  28  (1933), 
pp  38-55.  Criticism  of  Masters  did  not  become  important  until  after  191 5. 
An  early  appreciation  is  the  chapter  devoted  to  him  and  Sandburg  in  Amy 
Lowell  Tendencies  in  Modern  American  Poetry  (Boston,  1917).  His  regional 
background  has  been  investigated  by  J.  C.  Chandler,  "The  Spoon  River  Coun- 
trv"  Journ.  Illinois  State  Hist.  Soc,  Vol.  14  (1921-22),  pp.  252-329.  Two 
recent  appraisals  are  bv  Herbert  E.  Childs,  "Agrarianism  and  Sex:  Edgar  Lee 
Masters  and  the  Modern  Spirit,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  41  (July-Sept.,  1933), 
pp.  331-343.  and  John  G.  Fletcher,  "Masters  and  Men,"  Poetry,  Vol.  49  (1937), 

PP-  343-347-  „      ^ 

For  Zona  Gale:  see  Bibliography  for  Chapter  43  above. 

A  selection  from  the  writings  of  Sherwood  Anderson  has  been  made  by 
Paul  Rosenfeld,  The  Sherwood  Anderson  Reader  (1947)-  See  also  the  "Sher" 
wood  Anderson  Memorial  Number,"  Newberry  Lib.  Bull.,^  2  Ser.,  No.  2 
(Chicago  1948).  For  biographical  data  the  best  sources  are  his  own  A  Story 
Teller's  Story  (1924),  Tar:  A  Midwest  Childwood  (1926),  and  Sherwood 
Anderson's  Memoirs  (1942).  Two  early  studies,  which  should  soon  be  super- 
seded, are  bv  Cleveland  B.  Chase,  Sherwood  Anderson  (1927),  and  Nathan  B. 
Fagin'  The  Phenomenon  of  Sherwood  Anderson  (Baltimore,  1927).  The  latter 
.  has  also  contributed  among  recent  studies  "Sherwood  Anderson,"  South  Atlan- 
tic Quart.,  Vol.  43  (Oct.,  1944),  PP-  256-262,  and  "Anderson:  Psychoanalyst 
by  Default,"  in  Frederick  J.  Hoffman,  Freudianism  and  the  Literary  Mind 
(Baton  Rouge,  La.,  1945),  PP-  ^^55-  Other  critical  estimates  are  Harry  Han- 
sen, Midwest  Portraits  (1923),  pp.  109-179;  Victor  F.  Calverton,  The  Newer 
Spirit  (1925),  pp.  52-118,  emphasizing  the  sociological  bearing  of  Andersons 
work;  -Sherwood  Anderson,  Poet,"  in  Rebecca  West,  The  Strange  Necessity 
(London,  1928);  Lionel  Trilling,  "Sherwood  Anderson,"  Kenyan  Rev.,  Vol. 
3   (Summer,   1941),  pp.  293-302.  m 

lor  Thomas  Stkarns  Eliot:   the  best  available  bibliography  is  Donald  C. 
Gallup,  A  Catalogue  of  English  and  American  First  Editions  of  Writings  by 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1085 

T.  S.  Eliot  (New  Haven,  1937).  To  the  Collected  Poems,  1909-1935  (London 
and  New  York,  1936),  should  be  added  the  four  poems  collected  as  Four 
Quartets  (London,  1943).  Selected  Essays,  1917-/932  (1932;  rev.  and  enl., 
1950)  may  be  supplemented  by  Essays,  Ancient  and  Modern  (London,  1936). 
Points  of  View  (1941),  ed.  John  Hay  ward,  is  a  selection  of  critical  papers. 
No  biography  has  been  written.  More  critical  comment  has  been  roused  by 
Eliot  than  by  any  other  contemporary  poet,  and  for  a  list  even  approaching 
fullness  the  reader  may  be  referred  to  LHUS,  Vol.  Ill,  Bibliography.  For  ordi- 
nary appetites  the  following  will  probably  be  sufficient:  F.  O.  Matthiessen, 
The  Achievement  of  T.  S.  Eliot  (Boston,  1935;  rev.  edition,  1948);  F.  R. 
Leavis,  New  Bearings  in  English  Poetry  (London,  1932),  pp.  75-132,  and  many 
later  critiques  by  Leavis  and  others  in  the  files  of  Scrutiny;  T.  S.  Eliot:  A 
Selected  Critique  (1948),  ed.  Leonard  Unger,  and  T.  S.  Eliot:  A  Study 
of  His  Writings  (London,  1947),  ed.  B.  Raj  an,  the  two  latter  being  collections 
of  papers  by  competent  British  and  American  critics. 

For  Robinson  Jeffers:  an  elaborate  list  of  publications  has  been  compiled  by 
Sydney  S.  Alberts,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Works  of  Robinson  Jeffers  (1933), 
with  Foreword  by  Jeffers.  The  Selected  Poetry  of  Robinson  Jeffers  (1938) 
is  as  yet  the  only  approach  to  a  collected  edition.  The  leading  biographical- 
critical  study,  Lawrence  C.  Powell,  Robinson  Jeffers:  The  Man  and  His  Work 
(Los  Angeles,  1934;  rev.  and  enl.,  Pasadena,  Calif.,  1940)  has  not  quite  rendered 
obsolete  George  Sterling,  Robinson  Jeffers:  The  Man  and  the  Artist  (1926), 
and  Rudolph  Gilbert,  Shine,  Perishing  Republic:  Robinson  Jeffers  and  the 
Tragic  Sense  in  Modern  Poetry  (Boston,  1936).  For  critical  comment,  see 
Charles  Cestre,  "Robinson  Jeffers,"  Revue  Anglo- Amer.,  Vol.  4  (Aug.,  1927), 
pp.  489-502;  Hyatt  H.  Waggoner,  "Science  and  the  Poetry  of  Robinson 
Jeffers,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  10  (Nov.,  1938),  pp.  275-288;  Delmore  Schwartz  and 
Frajam  Taylor,  "Sources  of  Violence:  The  Enigma  of  Robinson  Jeffers," 
Poetry,  Vol.  ^  (Oct.,  1939),  pp.  30-38;  Frederic  I.  Carpenter,  "The  Values 
of  Robinson  Jeffers,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  10  (Dec,  1940),  pp.  353-366;  Harold 
H.  Watts,  "Multivalence  in  Robinson  Jeffers,"  College  English,  Vol.  3  (Nov., 
1941),  pp.  109-120;  William  S.  Johnson,  "The  'Savior'  in  the  Poetry  of 
Robinson  Jeffers,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  15  (May,  1943),  pp.  159-168. 

For  Ring  Lardner:  collections  have  been  ed.  by  Gilbert  Seldes,  First  and 
Last  (1934),  and  The  Portable  Ring  Lardner  (1946).  Ring  Lardner's  Best 
Stories  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1938),  with  foreword  by  William  McFee,  is 
made  up  from  The  Big  Town  (1921)  and  Round  Up  (1929).  Lardner  produced 
a  spoofing  autobiography  in  The  Story  of  a  Wonder  Man  (1927).  Critics  have 
only  recently  begun  to  take  him  seriously.  For  early  perceptions:  see  Carl  Van 
Doren,  Many  Minds  (1924),  pp.  167-180,  and  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  The  Main 
Stream  (1927),  pp.  168-175.  The  best  study  of  Lardner 's  significance  to  date  is 
in  Maxwell  Geismar,  Writers  in  Crisis  (Boston,  1942),  pp.  1-36. 

For  John  Dos  Passos:  "Bibliography  of  John  Dos  Passos"  has  been  compiled 
by  Martin  Kallich,  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  19  (May- Aug.,  1949),  pp.  231-235.  The 
Modern  Library  contains  reprints  of  Three  Soldiers  (1932)  and  The  42nd 
Parallel  (1937),  the  latter  with  an  Intro,  by  the  author.  Three  novels  have  been 
reprinted  as  a  trilogy  in  one  volume  with  the  collective  title  of  U.  S.  A.  (1937; 
reprinted  3  Vols.,  Boston,  1947).  Journey  Between  Two  Wars  (1938)  consists 


io86  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

of  selections  from  travel  books.  The  nearest  approach  to  a  biography  is  John 
Chamberlain,  John  Dos  Passos:  A  Biographical  and  Critical  Essay  (1939, 
pamphlet).  For  critical  estimates,  see  Sinclair  Lewis,  "Manhattan  at  Last!" 
Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  2  (Dec.  5,  1925),  p.  361;  Alan  Calmar,  "John  Dos  Passos," 
Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  40  (July-Sept.,  1932),  pp.  341-349;  Bernard  De  Voto, 
"John  Dos  Passos:  Anatomist  of  Our  Time,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  14  (Aug.  8, 
1936),  pp.  3-4,  12-13;  Mason  Wade,  "Novelist  of  America:  John  Dos  Passos," 
North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  244  (Autumn,  1937),  pp.  349-367;  and  Thomas  K. 
Whipple,  Study  Out  the  Land  (Berkeley,  Calif.,  1943),  pp.  85-92. 

For  Ernest  Hemingway:  an  elaborate  list  of  his  publications  to  1931  is 
Louis  H.  Cohn,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Works  of  Ernest  Hemingway.  The 
Sun  Also  Rises  and  A  Farewell  to  Arms  have  been  issued  in  the  Modern 
Library,  which  also  includes  The  Short  Stories  of  Ernest  Hemingway  (1942). 
For  Whom  the  Bell  Tolls  has  been  reprinted  (Princeton,  1942),  with  an 
Intro,  by  Sinclair  Lewis.  The  Portable  Hemingway  (1944)  is  edited  by  Mal- 
colm Cowley.  For  critical  estimates,  see  Paul  Rosenfeld,  By  Way  of  Art  (1928), 
pp.  1 51-163;  Wyndham  Lewis,  Men  Without  Art  (London,  1934),  pp.  17-41; 
John  P.  Bishop,  "The  Missing  All,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  13  (Jan.,  1937), 
pp.  107-12 1 ;  Delmore  Schwartz,  "Ernest  Hemingway's  Literary  Situation," 
Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  3  (April,  1938),  pp.  769-782;  Edmund  Wilson,  "Ernest 
Hemingway:  Bourbon  Gauge  of  Morale."  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  163  (July, 
1939),  pp.  36-46;  Edgar  Johnson,  "Farewell  the  Separate  Peace,"  Sewanee  Rev., 
Vol.  48  (July-Sept.,  1940),  pp.  289-300;  Robert  P.  Warren,  "Hemingway," 
Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  9  (Winter,  1947),  pp.  1-28. 

For  William  Faulkner:  the  best  available  bibliography  is  Robert  W.  Daniel, 
A  Catalogue  of  the  Writings  of  William  Faulkner  (New  Haven,  1942). 
Sanctuary  has  been  reprinted  in  the  Modern  Library  (1932),  and  The  Portable 
Faulkner,  a  notably  good  selection,  has  been  edited  by  Malcolm  Cowley. 
See  also  Collected  Stories  of  William  Faulkner  (1950).  Critical  comments  in- 
clude Evelyn  Scott,  On  William  Faidkner's  uThe  Sound  and  the  Fury"  (1929 
pamphlet);  A.  Wigfall  Green,  "William  Faulkner  at  Home,"  Sewanee  Rev., 
Vol.  40  (July-Sept.,  1932),  pp.  294-306;  Wyndham  Lewis,  Men  Without  Art 
(London,  1934),  pp.  42-64;  James  W.  Linn  and  Houghton  W.  Taylor,  A 
Foreword  to  Fiction  (1935),  pp.  144-157;  George  M.  O'Donnell,  "Faulkner's 
Mythology,"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  1  (Summer,  1939),  pp.  285-299;  Delmore 
Schwartz,  "The  Fiction  of  William  Faulkner,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  7  (Summer, 
1941),  pp.  145-160;  Maxwell  Geismar,  Writers  in  Crisis  (Boston,  1942),  pp. 
141 -1 84;  George  Snell,  "The  Fury  of  William  Faulkner,"  Western  Rev.,  Vol. 
n  (Autumn,  1946),  pp.  29-40. 

For  Erskine  Caldwell:  a  list  of  publications  has  been  compiled  by  Marion 
Squire,  "American  First  Editions:  Erskine  (Preston)  Caldwell  1903-,"  Pub- 
Ushers  Weekly,  Vol.  129  (March  21,  1936),  p.  1276.  God's  Little  Acre  is  in 
the  Modern  Library.  (1934).  Stories  by  Erskine  Caldwell  (1944)  has  been 
edited  by  Henry  S.  Canby.  Studies  of  his  fiction  include,  Kenneth  Burke, 
"Caldwell:  Maker  of  Grotesques,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  82  (April  10,  1935), 
pp.  232-235;  John  D.  Wade,  "Sweet  are  the  Uses  of  Degeneracy,"  Southern 
Rev.,  Vol.  1  (Winter,  1936),  pp.  449-466;  William  T.  Couch,  "Landlord  and 
Tenant,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  14  (Spring,  1938),  pp.  309-312;  Peter  A. 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1087 

Carmichael,  "Jeeter  Lester,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  48  (Jan.,  1940),  pp.  21-29; 
W.  M.  Frohock,  "Erskine  Caldwell:  Sentimental  Gentleman  from  Georgia," 
Southwest  Rev.,  Vol.  31  (Autumn,  1946),  pp.  351-359;  Joseph  W.  Beach, 
American  Fiction,  1920-1940  (1941),  pp.  219-249. 

A  significant  comment  on  the  vogue  of  American  naturalistic  fiction  abroad 
is  J.  P.  Sartre,  "American  Novelists  in  French  Eyes,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol. 
178  (Aug.,  1946),  pp.  114-118. 

CHAPTER    46 

LOOPHOLES  OF  RETREAT 

A  background  for  some  of  the  material  included  in  this  chapter  is  Caroline  F. 
Ware,  Greenwich  Village,  1920-1930:  A  Continent  on  American  Civilization 
in  the  Post-War  Years  (Boston,  1935). 

For  F.  Scott  Fitzgerald:  the  best  collection  is  the  Portable  F.  Scott  Fitz- 
gerald (1945),  ed.  Dorothy  Parker  with  Intro,  by  John  O'Hara.  The  Crack-Up 
(Norfolk,  Conn.,  1945),  ed.  Edmund  Wilson,  contains  much  personal  material. 
Reminiscences  by  Glenway  Westcott  and  others  may  be  found  in  the  New 
Republic,  Vol.  104  (March  3,  1941),  pp.  213-217,  31 1-3 13.  For  criticism, 
consult  John  P.  Bishop,  "The  Missing  All,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  13 
(Jan.,  1937),  pp.  1 06-121;  Charles  Weir,  Jr.,  "An  Invite  with  Gilded  Edges," 
Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  20  (April,  1944),  pp.  100-113;  William  Troy, 
"Scott  Fitzgerald:  The  Authority  of  Failure,"  Accent,  Vol.  6  (Autumn,  1945), 
pp.  56-60;  John  Berryman,  "F.  Scott  Fitzgerald,"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  8  (Winter, 
1946),  pp.  103-112;  Arthur  Mizener,  "Scott  Fitzgerald  and  the  Imaginative 
Possession  of  American  Life,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  54  (Jan.-March,  1946), 
pp.  66-86,  and  "F.  Scott  Fitzgerald:  The  Poet  of  Borrowed  Time,"  in  The 
Lives  of  Eighteen  from  Princeton  (Princeton,  1946),  pp.  333-353,  ed.  Willard 
Thorp. 

For  James  Branch  Cabell:  a  list  has  been  compiled  by  I.  R.  Brussel,  A 
Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  ]ames  Branch  Cabell  (Philadelphia,  1932). 
The  Works  of  James  Branch  Cabell,  Storisende  Edition,  18  Vols.  (1927-1930), 
and  Between  Dawn  and  Sunrise:  Selections  from  the  Writings  of  James 
Branch  Cabell  (1930),  ed.  John  Macy,  are  the  principal  collections.  Criticism 
has  been  plentiful  but  uncritical,  see  esp.  Hugh  Walpole,  The  Art  of  James 
Branch  Cabell  (1920,  pamphlet);  Don  M.  Bregenzer  and  Samuel  Loveman,  eds., 
A  Round  Table  in  Poictesme  (Cleveland,  1924);  H.  L.  Mencken,  James  Branch 
Cabell  (1927,  pamphlet);  Warren  A.  McNeill,  Cabellian  Harmonics  (1928), 
with  Intro,  by  Cabell;  Gay  W.  Allen,  "Jurgen  and  Faust,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol. 
39  (Oct.-Dec,  193 1 ),  pp.  485-492;  Carl  Van  Doren,  James  Branch  Cabell 
(1925);  Maurice  Le  Breton,  "James  Branch  Cabell,  Romancier:  I,  Les  Pre- 
mieres CEuvres,"  Revue  Anglo-Amer.,  Vol.  11  (Dec,  1933),  pp.  112-128,  and 
"II.  Les  Romans  de  Poictesme,"  the  same  (Jan.,  1934),  pp.  223-237;  Leon 
Howard,  "Figures  of  Allegory,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  42  (Jan.-March,  1934), 
pp.  54-66;  Ernst  T.  Sehrt,  "Die  Weltanschauung  James  Branch  Cabells,"  En- 
glische  Stud.,  Vol.  72  (Aug.,  1938),  pp.  355-399;  Edward  Wagenknecht, 
"Cabell:  A  Reconsideration,"  College  English,  Vol.  9  (1948),  pp.  238-246. 


io88  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

For  Joseph  Hergesheimer:  autobiographical  material  may  be  found  in 
The  Presbyterian  Child  (1923)  and  From  an  Old  House  (1925).  For  critical 
comment,  consult  Llewellyn  Jones,  Joseph  Hergesheimer:  The  Man  and  His 
Books  (1920,  pamphlet);  James  B.  Cabell,  Joseph  Hergesheimer:  An  Essay  in 
Interpretation  (Chicago,  192 1,  pamphlet);  H.  L.  Mencken,  Prejudices:  Fifth 
Series  (1926),  pp.  42-49;  Geoffrey  West,  "Joseph  Hergesheimer,"  Virginia 
Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  8  (Jan.,  1932),  pp.  95-108;  Leon  Kelley,  "America  and  Mr. 
Hergesheimer,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  40   (April-June,   1932),  pp.   171- 193. 

For  Winston  Churchill:  two  informed  appraisals  are  John  C.  Underwood, 
Literature  and  Insurgency  (1914),  pp.  299-345;  and  Morris  E.  Speare,  The 
Political  Novel  in  England  and  America  (1924),  pp.  306-321. 

For  James  Boyd:  see  Struthers  Burt  and  others  in  Princeton  Univ.  Lib. 
Chron.,  Vol.  6  (Feb.,  1945),  pp.  56-81;  J.  R.  Meade,  "James  Boyd,"  Sat.  Rev. 
Lit.,  Vol.  12  (June  29,  1935),  pp.  10-11. 

For  Kenneth  Roberts:  "Bibliography  of  Kenneth  Lewis  Roberts,"  Bull,  of 
Bib.,  Vol.  17  (Sept.-Dec,  1942,  Jan.-April,  1943),  pp.  191-192,  218-219;  Vol. 
18  (May-Aug.,  Sept.-Dec,  1943),  pp.  13-15,  34-46.  For  critical  comment,  B.  A. 
Williams,  "Kenneth  Roberts,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  18  (June  25,  1938),  pp.  8-19; 
Carlos  Baker,  "The  Novel  and  History:  Kenneth  Roberts,"  Delphian  Quart., 
Vol.  24  (Jan.,  1941),  pp.  15-20. 

For  Walter  D.  Edmonds:  the  best  source  is  his  own  article,  "A  Novelist 
Takes  Stock,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  172  (July,  1943),  pp.  73-77.  See  also 
Robert  M.  Gay,  "The  Historical  Novel:  Walter  D.  Edmonds,"  Atlantic 
Monthly,  Vol.  165  (May,  1940),  pp.  6^6-6^8;  Dayton  Kohler,  "Walter  D.  Ed- 
monds: Regional  Historian,"  English  Journal  (coll.  edition),  Vol.  27  (Jan., 
1938),  pp.  i-ii. 

For  Stephen  Vincent  Benet:  a  bibliography  is  contained  in  William  Rose 
Benet  and  John  Farrar,  Stephen  Vincent  Benet  (1943),  pp.  37-39.  Selections 
from  Benet's  shorter  pieces  are  published  as  Ballads  and  Poems,  1915-1930 
(Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  193 1 ).  Other  collections  are  Selected  Works  of  Stephen 
Vincent  Benet,  2  Vols.  (1942),  and  Twenty-five  Short  Stories  (Garden  City, 
N.  Y.,  1943).  Personal  reminiscences  by  ten  contemporaries  may  be  found  in 
"As  We  Remember  Him,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  26  (March  27,  1943),  pp.  7-1 1  - 
For  critical  comment,  Harriet  Monroe,  "A  Cinema  Epic,"  Poetry,  Vol.  33 
(Nov.,  1928),  pp.  91-96;  Morton  D.  Zabel,  "The  American  Grain,"  Poetry, 
Vol.  48  (Aug.,  1936),  pp.  276-282;  Paul  L.  Wiley,  "The  Phaeton  Symbol  in 
John  Brown's  Body,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  17  (Nov.,  1945),  pp.  231-242. 

For  Conrad  Richter:  the  only  serious  article  is  Bruce  Sutherland,  "Conrad 
Richter's  America,"  New  Mexico  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  15  (Winter,  1945),  pp. 
413-422. 

For  Stewart  Edward  White:  critical  comment  at  various  periods  in  his 
career  may  be  represented  by  articles  from  the  Bookman,  as  follows:  Lindsay 
Denison,  Vol.  17  (May,  1903),  pp.  308-311;  Ward  Clark,  Vol.  31  (July,  1910), 
pp.  4S6-492;  Arthur  B.  Maurice,  Vol.  69  (Aug.,  1929),  pp.  588-589. 

As  background  for  the  nature  writers,  see  Philip  M.  Hicks,  Development  of 
the  Natural  History  Essay  in  American  Literature  (Philadelphia,  1924).  Com- 
ment lias  generally  dwelt  on  the  scientific  rather  than  the  literary  aspects  of 
their  work.  For  William  Beebe:  Theodore  Roosevelt,  "A  Naturalist's  Tropical 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1089 

Laboratory,"  Scribner^s,  Vol.  61  (Jan.,  191 7),  pp.  46-64;  Edmund  Wilson,  "A 
Conversation  in  the  Galapagos,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  136  (Nov.,  1925),  pp. 
577-587;  Mark  Barr,  "Roughing  It  in  the  Tropics,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  140 
(Nov.,  1927),  pp.  611-620.  For  Donald  Culross  Peattie:  Mangum  Weeks, 
"Artist  and  Backwoodsman,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  13  (Jan.,  1937),  pp. 
140-143;  Mark  Van  Doren,  "A  New  Naturalist,"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  244 
(Sept.,  1937),  pp.  162-171. 

For  Sara  Teasdale:  see  The  Collected  Poems  of  Sara  Teasdale  (1937). 
There  is  a  personal  sketch  in  Louis  Untermeyer,  From  Another  World  (1939), 
pp.  159-183.  For  criticism,  consult  Harriet  Monroe,  Poetry,  Vol.  25  (Feb., 
1925),  pp.  262-268;  and  the  same,  Vol.  42  (April,  1933),  pp.  30-33;  Conrad 
Aiken,  "It  Is  in  Truth  a  Pretty  Toy,"  Dial  (Feb.,  1925),  pp.  107-114;  Babette 
Deutsch,  "The  Solitary  Ironist,"  Poetry  (Dec,  1937),  pp.  148-153;  Irene 
Fisher,  "Strange  Victory:  One  Woman's  Life,"  New  Mexico  Quart.  Rev., 
Vol.  4  (May,  1934),  pp.  123-126. 

For  Elinor  Wylie-:  several  collections  have  been  published,  including 
Collected  Poems  (1932),  ed.  William  Rose  Benet,  Collected  Prose  (1933), 
and  Last  Poe?ns  (1943).  Many  of  her  manuscripts  have  been  deposited  in  the 
Library  of  Congress.  A  biography  is  by  Mrs.  Wylie's  sister  Nancy  Hoyt,  Elinor 
Wylie:  The  Portrait  of  an  Unknown  Lady  (Indianapolis,  1935).  Among  useful 
critical  appraisals  are  Herbert  S.  Gorman,  "Daughter  of  Donne,"  North  Amer. 
Rev.,  Vol.  219  (May,  1924),  pp.  679-686;  James  B.  Cabell,  "Sanctuary  in  Por- 
celain," Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  6  (July,  1930)  pp.  335-341;  Morton  D.  Zabel, 
"The  Pattern  of  the  Atmosphere,"  Poetry,  Vol.  40  (Aug.,  1932),  pp.  273-282; 
William  R.  Benet,  The  Prose  and  Poetry  of  Elinor  Wylie  (Norton,  Mass., 
1934,  pamphlet);  Carl  Van  Doren,  "Elinor  Wylie:  A  Portrait  from  Memory," 
Harper's,  Vol.  173  (Sept.,  1936),  pp.  358-367;  Dayton  Kohler,  "Elinor  Wylie: 
Heroic  Mask,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  36  (April,  1937),  pp.  218-228; 
Julia  Cluck,  "Elinor  Wylie's  Shelley  Obsession,"  PMLA,  Vol.  ^6  (Sept.,  1941), 
pp.  841-860. 

For  Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay:  see  Karl  Yost,  A  Bibliography  of  the  Works 
of  Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay  (1937),  and  John  S.  Van  E.  Kohn,  "Some  Under- 
graduate Printings  of  Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay,"  Publishers  Weekly,  Vol.  138 
(Nov.  30,  1940),  pp.  2026-2029.  Collected  Sonnets  (1941)  and  Collected  Lyrics 
(1943)  contain  the  essence  of  her  poetry.  Three  Plays  (1926)  includes  only 
the  earliest  of  her  dramatic  works.  Elizabeth  Atkins,  Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay 
and  Her  Times  (Chicago,  1936)  is  the  nearest  approach  to  a  critical  biography. 
More  discriminating  are  John  H.  Preston,  "Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay,"  Virginia 
Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  3  (July,  1927),  pp.  342-355;  Edd  W.  Parks,  "Edna  St.  Vincent 
Millay,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  38  (Jan.-March,  1930),  pp.  42-49;  Allen  Tate, 
"Miss  Millay's  Sonnets,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  66  (May  6,  1931),  pp.  335-336; 
John  C.  Ransom,  "The  Poet  as  Woman,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  2  (Spring,  1937), 
pp.  783-806. 

The  controversy  over  the  position  of  the  so-called  humanists  may  be  studied 
in  Humanism  and  America,  ed.  Norman  Foerster  (1930),  and  the  reply  The 
Critique  of  Humanism,  ed.  C.  Hartley  Grattan  (1930).  Other  defenses  of  the 
humanist  movement  are  Norman  Foerster,  Toward  Standards  (1930);  Seward 
Collins,  "Criticism  in  America,"  Bookman,  Vol.  71  (June,  July,  1930),  pp,  241- 


1090  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

256,  353-364,  400-415;  Vol.  72  (Oct.,  1930),  pp.  145-164,  209-228;  G.  Roy  Elliott, 
Humanism  and  Imagination  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1938);  Louis  J.  A.  Mercier, 
The  Challenge  of  Humanism  (1933);  Gorham  B.  Munson,  The  Dilemma  of  the 
Liberated  (1930);  and  Yvor  Winters,  Primitivism  and  Decadence  (1937). 
.Much  material  may  also  be  gathered  from  Homer  E.  Woodbridge  and  Jacob 
Zeitlin,  Life  and  Letters  of  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  2  Vols.  (1929). 

For  Irving  Babbitt:  a  list  of  his  writings  may  be  found  in  Frederick  Man- 
chester and  others,  Spanish  Character  (Boston,  1940),  pp.  249-259,  and  a 
descriptive  index  of  his  works,  pp.  263-361.  A  collective  portrait  by  thirty- 
nine  contributors  is  Irving  Babbitt:  Man  and  Teacher  (1941),  ed.  Frederick 
Manchester  and  Odell  Shepard.  For  critical  appraisal,  see  T.  S.  Eliot,  "The 
Humanism  of  Irving  Babbitt,"  Forum,  Vol.  80  (July,  1928),  pp.  37-44;  Francis 
E.  McMahon,  The  Humanism  of  Irving  Babbitt  (Washington,  193 1);  Richard 
P.  Blackmur,  "Humanism  and  Symbolic  Imagination,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  7 
(Autumn,  1941),  pp.  309-325;  Wylie  Sypher,  "Irving  Babbitt:  A  Reappraisal," 
New  Eng.  Quart.,  Vol.  14  (May,  1941),  pp.  64-76;  and  three  articles  by  G. 
Roy  Elliott  in  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  7  (Sept.,  1936),  pp.  442-454;  Vol.  8  (Nov., 
1936),  pp.  36-60;  Vol.  9  (Summer,  1937),  pp.  252-265. 

For  Paul  Elmer  More:  a  complete  bibliography  has  been  compiled  by 
Malcolm  Young,  Paul  Elmer  More:  A  Bibliography  (Princeton,  1941).  Selected 
Shelburne  Essays  (1935)  has  appeared  in  the  World's  Classics.  The  most 
elaborate  study  is  Robert  Shafer,  Paul  Elmer  More  and  American  Criticism 
(New  Haven,  1935).  Personal  impressions  include  Louis  T.  More,  "Shelburne 
Revisited,"  Sevoanee  Rev.,  Vol.  48  (Oct.,  1940),  pp.  457-460;  J.  Duncan  Spaeth, 
"Conversations  with  Paul  Elmer  More,"  Sevoanee  Rev.,  Vol.  51  (Oct.-Dec, 
1943),  pp.  532-545.  For  criticism,  see  Allen  Tate,  "The  Fallacy  of  Humanism," 
Hound  and  Horn,  Vol.  3  (Jan.-March,  1930),  pp.  234-258;  Folke  Leander, 
"More:  Puritan  a  rebours,"  American  Scholar,  Vol.  7  (Oct.,  1938),  pp.  438- 
453;  Stuart  G.  Brown,  "Toward  an  American  Tradition,"  Sevoanee  Rev.,  Vol. 
47  (Oct.,  1939),  pp.  476-497. 

For  Thomas  Stearns  Eliot:  see  Bibliography  for  Chapter  45. 

CHAPTER    47 

IN  THE  AMERICAN  GRAIN 

Of  the  academic  poets,  George  Edward  Woodberry  is  most  securely  estab- 
lished. The  best  bibliography  is  P.  R.  Hawkins,  "A  List  of  Writings  by  and 
about  George  Edward  Woodberry,"  Bull.  N.  Y.  Pub.  Lib.,  Vol.  34  (1930), 
pp.  279-296.  Louis  V.  Ledoux,  George  Edward  Woodberry  (Cambridge, 
191 7),  one  of  the  more  serious  studies  of  his  poetry,  also  contains  a  checklist. 
Selected  Poems  (Boston,  1933)  is  a  representative  collection.  There  is  no  bi- 
ography. A  large  number  of  letters  to  Woodberry  and  a  small  number  from 
him  arc  on  deposit  in  the  Harvard  College  Library.  Selected  Letters  of  George 
Edvoard  Woodberry  (Boston,  1933)  was  edited  with  Intro,  by  Walter  de  la 
Mare.  See  also  A  Scholar's  Testament:  Two  Letters  from  George  Edward 
Woodberry  to  J.  E.  Spingarn  (Amenia,  N.  Y.,  193 1),  and  "Letters  from  George 
Edward  Woodberry  to  Charles  Battell  Loomis,  Jr.,"  Bookman,  Vol.  74  (Jan.- 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1091 

Feb.,  March,  1932),  pp.  542-551,  654-658.  Critical  estimates  include,  John 
Erskine,  "George  Edward  Woodberry,  185 5- 1930,"  Bull.  N.  Y.  Pub.  Lib.,  Vol. 
34  (i93°)i  PP-  275-279;  Charles  F.  Thwing,  "George  Edward  Woodberry," 
Harvard  Grad.  Mag.,  Vol.  38  (June,  1930),  pp.  433-443;  Harold  Kellock, 
"Woodberry,  a  Great  Teacher,"  Nation,  Vol.  130  (Jan.  29,  1930),  pp.  120-122. 
For  William  Ellery  Leonard:  see  his  psychopathic  autobiography  The  Loco- 
motive-God (1927)  and  the  autobiographical  sonnet  sequence,  Two  Lives 
(1922).  His  collected  poems  have  been  issued  under  the  title  A  Son  of  Earth 
(1928).  For  commentary,  see  William  E.  Leonard,  "The  Poetic  Process  from 
the  Inside,"  Bookman,  Vol.  75  (Aug.,  1932),  pp.  327-333;  C.  E.  Cason,  "Wil- 
liam Ellery  Leonard,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  4  (July,  1928),  pp.  359-366; 
Howard  M.  Jones,  "William  Ellery  Leonard,"  Double  Dealer,  Vol.  8  (May! 
1926),  pp.  332-338;  E.  L.  Meyer,  "William  Ellery  Leonard,"  Amer.  Mercury, 
Vol.  32  (July,  1934),  pp.  334-340.  For  Mark  Van  Doren:  see  his  Collected 
Poems,  1922-1938  (1939).  A  representative  appreciation  is  Howard  Baker,  "A 
Note  on  the  Poetry  of  Mark  Van  Doren,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  1  (Winter, 
1936),  pp.  601-608. 

Scholarly  autobiographies  and  biographies  of  college  professors  include  no- 
tably, Gamaliel  Bradford,  A  Naturalist  of  Souls  (191 7)  and  Life  and  I  (1928); 
Bliss  Perry,  And  Gladly  Teach  (Boston,  1935);  Carl  Van  Doren,  Three 
Worlds  (1936);  William  L.  Phelps,  Autobiography  with  Letters  (1939).  A 
life  of  Constance  Rourke  by  Margaret  Marshall  is  announced  in  the  new 
American  Men  of  Letters  series. 

For  Robert  Frost:  the  compilation  by  W.  B.  Shubrick  Clymer  and  Charles 
R.  Green,  Robert  Frost:  A  Bibliography  (Amherst,  Mass.,  1937),  is  standard 
to  date  of  publication.  Additional  items  appear  in  Louis  and  Esther  Mertens, 
The  Intervals  of  Robert  Frost  (Berkeley,  Calif.,   1947).  Collected  Poems  of 
Robert  Frost  first  appeared  in  1930,  with  additions  in  1939,  and  as  Complete 
Poems  (1949).  Selected  Poems  (1923)  was  enlarged  in  1928  and  again  in  1934. 
Selected  Poems  (London,  1936)  includes  essays  by  W.  H.  Auden,  Paul  Engle, 
and  others.  Come  In,  and  Other  Poems  (1943)  consists  of  poems  selected  by 
Louis  Untermeyer  with  prose  commentary.  A  large  collection  of  Frost  mate- 
rial is  in  the  Jones  Library,  Amherst.   Lawrence   Thompson,   designated   as 
Frost's  biographer,  has  already  published  Emerson  and  Frost:  Critics  of  their 
Times  (Philadelphia,  1940)  and  Fire  and  Ice:  The  Art  and  Thought  of  Robert 
Frost  (1942).  Earlier  studies  include,  Gorham  B.  Munson,  Robert  Frost  (1927). 
Caroline  Ford,  The  Less  Traveled  Road  (Cambridge,  1935),  and  Sidney  Cox, 
Robert  Frost:  Original  ''Ordinary  Man"  (1929).  Critical  appreciations  to  date 
of   issue   are  compiled   in   Richard   Thornton,   Recognition   of  Robert   Frost 
(1937).   Later  treatments   of  importance  include  James   S.   Wilson,   "Robert 
Frost,  American  Poet,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  7  (April,  193 1),  pp.  316- 
320;  James  M.  Dabbs,  "Robert  Frost  and  the  Dark  Woods,"  Yale  Rev.,  Vol. 
23  (March,  1934),  pp.  514-520;  Mark  Van  Doren,  "The  Permanence  of  Robert 
Frost,"  Amer.  Scholar,  Vol.  5  (Spring,  1936),  pp.  190-198;  Robert  S.  Newdick, 
'Robert  Frost  and  the  Sound  of  Sense,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  9  (Nov.,  1937),  pp. 
289-300;  Robert  P.  T.  Coffin,  New  Poetry  of  New  England  (Baltimore,  1938); 
Hyatt  H.  Waggoner,  "The  Humanistic  Idealism  of  Robert  Frost,"  Amer.  Lit', 
Vol.   13   (Nov.,   1941),  pp.  207-223;  George  F.  Whicher,  "Out  for  Stars:   A 


io92  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

Meditation  on  Robert  Frost,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  171  (May,  1943),  pp. 
64-67,  and  his  "Frost  at  Seventy,"  Amer.  Scholar,  Vol.  16  (Spring,  1947),  pp. 
1 71-182;  Reginald  L.  Cook,  "Robert  Frost:  A  Time  to  Listen,"  College  English, 
Vol.  7  (Nov.,  1945),  pp.  66-71;  Charles  H.  Foster,  "Robert  Frost  and  the  New 
England  Tradition,"  in  Elizabethan  Studies . . .  in  Honor  of  George  F.  Rey- 
nolds (Boulder,  Colo.,  1945),  pp.  370-381;  Sidney  Cox,  "Robert  Frost  and 
Poetic  Fashion,"  Amer.  Scholar,  Vol.  18  (Winter,  1948),  pp.  78-86;  W.  G. 
O'Donnell,  "Robert  Frost  and  New  England,"  Yale  Rev.,  Vol.  37  (Spring, 
1948),  pp.  698-712.  Unfavorable  criticism  has  been  registered  by  Malcolm 
Cowley,  "Frost:  A  Dissenting  Opinion,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  in  (Sept.  11, 
18,  1944),  pp.  312-313,  345-347;  Yvor  Winters,  "Robert  Frost:  or,  the  Spiritual 
Drifter  as  Poet,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  56  (1948),  pp.  564-596. 

For  Will  a  Cather:  the  standard  collection  is  The  Novels  and  Stories  of 
Willa  Cather,  13  Vols.  (Boston,  1937-41).  Her  poems,  April  Twilight  (1903), 
were  reprinted  with  additions  in  1933.  A  biography  is  promised,  but  by  Miss 
Cather's  will  the  publication  of  her  letters  is  forbidden.  For  critical  appraisals, 
see  Elizabeth  S.  Sergeant,  Fire  Under  the  Andes  (1927),  pp.  261-282;  Thomas 
K.  Whipple,  Spokesmen  (1928),  pp.  139-160;  Granville  Hicks,  "The  Case 
against  Willa  Cather,"  English  Journal,  Vol.  22  (Nov.,  1933),  pp.  703-710; 
Edward  K.  Brown,  "Willa  Cather  and  the  West,"  Univ.  Toronto  Quart.,  Vol. 
5  (July,  1936),  pp.  444-466;  Robert  H.  Footman,  "The  Genius  of  Willa  Cather," 
Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  10  (May,  1938),  pp.  1 23-141;  Edward  K.  Brown,  "Homage  to 
Willa  Cather,"  Yale  Rev.,  Vol.  36  (1946),  pp.  77-92;  Maxwell  Geismar,  The 
Last  of  the  Provincials  (Boston,  1947),  pp.  153-220. 

For  Dorothy  Canfield  Fisher:  see  William  L.  Phelps,  "Dorothy  Canfield 
Fisher,"  English  Journal,  Vol.  22  (Jan.,  1933),  pp.  1-8;  Percy  H.  Boynton, 
"Two  New  England  Regionalists,"  College  English,  Vol.  1  (Jan.,  1940),  pp. 
291-299. 

For  Ole  Edvart  Rolvaag:  the  primary  documents  are  described  by  Nora  O. 
Solum,  "The  Sources  of  the  Rolvaag  Biography,"  N  or  we  gi  an- Amer.  Stud, 
and  Records,  Vol.  n  (1940),  pp.  150-159.  A  personal  impression  is  Lincoln 
Colcord,  "Rolvaag  the  Fisherman  Shook  His  Fist  at  Fate,"  Amer.  Mag.,  Vol. 
105  (March,  1928),  pp.  37,  188-192.  Giants  in  the  Earth  has  been  issued  in 
Harper's  Modern  Classics  with  an  Intro,  by  Vernon  L.  Parrington  (bib.).  The 
standard  biography  is  by  Theodore  Jorgenson  and  Nora  O.  Solum,  Ole  Edvart 
Rolvaag  (1939).  For  commentaries,  see  Julius  E.  Olson,  "Rolvaag's  Novels  of 
Norwegian  Pioneer  Life  in  the  Dakotas,"  Scandinavian  Stud,  and  Notes,  Vol. 
9  (Aug.,  1926),  pp.  45-55;  Einar  I.  Haugen,  "Rolvaag:  Norwegian- American," 
Norwegian- Amer.  Stud,  and  Records,  Vol.  7  (1933),  pp.  53-73;  George  L. 
White,  Jr.,  Scandinavian  Themes  in  American  Fiction  (Philadelphia,  1937), 
pp.  97-108;  Percy  H.  Boynton,  America  in  Contemporary  Fiction  (1940),  pp. 
225-240. 

For  Sophus  Keith  Winther:  see  George  F.  Whicher,  "Dane  in  America," 
Forum,  Vol.  106  (Nov.,  1946),  pp.  450-454;  Desmond  Powell,  "Sophus  Win- 
ther: The  Grimsen  Trilogy,"  Amer. -Scandinavian  Rev.,  Vol.  36  (June,  1948), 
pp.  1 44-1 47. 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1093 

CHAPTER    48 
THE  RESURGENT  SOUTH 

General  studies  of  Southern  literature  have  been  numerous.  Among  the  most 
useful  are  Jay  B.  Hubbell,  "Literary  Nationalism  in  the  Old  South,"  in  Ameri- 
can Studies  in  Honor  of  William  Kenneth  Boyd  (Durham,  N.  C,  1940);  Edd 
W.  Parks,  Segments  of  Southern  Thought  (Athens,  Ga.,  1938);  Shields  Mcll- 
waine,  The  Southern  Poor-White  from  Lubberland  to  Tobacco  Road  (Nor- 
man, Okla.,  1939);  Emily  Clark,  Innocence  Abroad  (1931),  personal  impres- 
sions of  contemporary  southern  writers;  A  Southern  Vanguard  (1948),  ed. 
Allen  Tate. 

Anthologies,  some  of  which  are  only  in  part  devoted  to  recent  writers, 
include  Library  of  Southern  Literature,  17  Vols.  (Atlanta,  1907-23),  ed. 
Edwin  A.  Alderman  and  others;  Edd  W.  Parks,  Southern  Poets  (1936)  and 
Gregory  Paine,  Southern  Prose  Writers  (1947),  both  volumes  in  American 
Writers  Series;  The  Lyric  South  (1928),  ed.  C.  Addison  Hibbard;  Stories  of 
the  South,  Old  and  New  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  193 1 ),  ed.  Hibbard;  A  Southern 
Harvest:  Short  Stories  by  Southern  Writers  (Boston,  1937),  ed.  Robert  P. 
Warren;  Contemporary  Southern  Prose  (Boston,  1940),  ed.  Richmond  C. 
Beatty  and  William  P.  Fidler. 

The  considerable  discussion  of  Southern  regionalism  in  the  magazines  may 
be  represented  by  the  following:  Stringfellow  Barr,  "The  Uncultured  South," 
Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  5  (April,  1929),  pp.  192-200;  Hamilton  Basso, 
"Letters  in  the  South,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  83  (June  19,  1935),  pp.  161-163; 
J.  W.  Bowyer,  "Conflict  in  the  South,"  Southwest  Rev.,  Vol.  28  (Spring, 
1943),  pp.  252-266;  M.  M.  Brashear,  "Missouri  Literature  since  the  First  World 
War,"  Missouri  Hist.  Rev.,  Vol.  40  (Oct.,  1945),  pp.  1-20;  G.  A.  Cardwell, 
"On  Scholarship  and  Southern  Literature,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  40 
(Jan.,  1941),  pp.  60-72;  W.  J.  Cash,  "Literature  and  the  South,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit., 
Vol.  23  (Dec.  28,  1940),  pp.  3-4,  18-19;  W.  T.  Couch,  "Reflections  on  the 
Southern  Tradition,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  35  (July,  1936),  pp.  284-297; 
Donald  Davidson,  "Regionalism  and  Nationalism  in  American  Literature," 
Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  5  (April,  1935),  pp.  48-61;  and  "Regionalism  as  Social 
Science,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  3  (Autumn,  1937),  pp.  209-224;  Jay'B.  Hubbell, 
"The  Decay  of  the  Provinces,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  35  (Oct.,  1927),  pp.  473-487; 
G.  W.  Johnson,  "The  Horrible  South,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  1 1  (April, 
1935),  pp.  201-207;  Howard  M.  Jones,  "The  Future  of  Southern  Culture," 
Southwest  Rev.,  Vol.  16  (Winter,  193 1 ),  pp.  141-165,  and,  "Is  There  a  Southern 
Literary  Renaissance?"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  6  (April,  1930),  pp.  184- 
197;  W.  S.  Knickerbocker,  "Mr.  Ransom  and  the  Old  South,"  Sewanee  Rev., 
Vol.  39  (April-June,  1931 ),  pp.  222-238;  Norman  McCleod  and  others,  "Re- 
gionalism: A  Symposium,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  39  (Oct.-Dec,  193 1 ),  pp.  456- 
483;  J.  N.  Oldham,  "Anatomy  of  Provincialism,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  44  (1936), 
pp.  68-75,  I44~I52'  298-302;  T.  J.  Pressly,  "Agrarianism:  An  Autopsy,"  Sewanee 
Rev.,  Vol.  49  (April-June,  1941),  pp.  145-163;  John  C.  Ransom,  "Modern  with 
Southern  Accent,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  11  (April,  1935),  pp.  184-200; 
Allen  Tate,  "The  New  Provincialism,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  21  (Spring, 


io94  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

1945),  pp.  262-2  7  2;  and,  "The  Profession  of  Letters  in  the  South,"  Virginia 
Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  11  (April,  1935),  pp.  161-176;  Robert  P.  Warren,  "Some 
Don'ts  for  Literary  Regionalists,"  Anier.  Rev.,  Vol.  8  (Dec,  1936),  pp.  142- 

i5°- 

For  Ellen  Glasgow:  there  is  a  checklist  by  William  H.  Egly,  "Bibliography 
of  Ellen  Anderson  Gholson  Glasgow,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  17  (Sept.-Dec,  1940), 
pp.  47-50.  There  is  also  a  list  to  date  in  A  Certain  Measure  (1943).  The  Works 
of  Ellen  Glasgow  have  been  twice  issued:  Old  Dominion  Edition,  each  volume 
revised  with  new  preface,  8  Vols.  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1929-33),  and 
X^rginia  Edition,  12  Vols.  (1938).  One  of  the  earliest  critical  estimates  of  her 
work  is  bv  Stuart  P.  Sherman,  Critical  Woodcuts  (1926),  pp.  73-82.  See  also 
Edwin  Mims,  "The  Social  Philosophy  of  Ellen  Glasgow,"  Social  Forces,  Vol. 
4  (March,  1926),  pp.  495-503;  James  B.  Cabell,  Some  of  Us  (1930),  pp.  47-58; 
Marjorie  K.  Rawlings,  "Regional  Literature  of  the  South,"  College  English, 
Vol.  1  (Feb.,  1940),  pp.  381-389;  Nellie  Elizabeth  Monroe,  The  Novel  and 
Society  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  G,  1941),  pp.  139-187;  Grace  Stone,  "Ellen  Glasgow's 
Novels,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  50  (July-Sept.,  1942),  pp.  289-300;  James  S. 
Wilson,  "Ellen  Glasgow:  Ironic  Idealist,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  15 
(Winter,  1939),  pp.  121-126. 

A  few  critical  papers  on  the  lesser  regionalists.  For  Elizabeth  Madox 
Roberts:  the  most  important  source  is  Allen  Tate,  "The  Elizabeth  Madox 
Roberts  Papers,"  Lib.  Cong.  Quar.  Jour,  of  Current  Acquisitions,  Vol.  1 
(Oct.-Dec,  1943),  PP-  29-3I-  Glenway  Westcott  has  contributed  "A  Personal 
Note,"  Bookman,  Vol.  71  (March,  1930),  pp.  12-15.  See  also  J.  D.  Adams, 
"Elizabeth  Madox  Roberts,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  12  (Jan.,  1936),  pp. 
80-90;  Alexander  M.  Buchan,  "Elizabeth  Madox  Roberts,"  Southwest  Rev., 
Vol.  25  (July,  1940),  pp.  463-481;  Mark  Van  Doren,  "Elizabeth  Madox  Rob- 
erts," English  Journal,  Vol.  21  (Sept.,  1932),  pp.  521-528.  For  Thomas  Sigis- 
mund  Stribling:  there  is  a  checklist  by  Frank  Stone,  "American  First  Editions: 
T(homas)  S(igismund)  Stribling  1881-,"  Publishers  Weekly,  Vol.  132  (Aug. 
21,  1937),  p.  592.  Comment  by  Byron  Dickens,  "T.  S.  Stribling  and  the  South," 
Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  42  (July-Sept.,  1934),  pp.  341-349;  T.  D.  Jarrett,  "Stribling's 
Novels,"  Phylon,  Vol.  4  (Oct.-Dec,  1943),  PP-  345~35°-  A  biographical  note  on 
Marjorie  Kinnan  Rawlings  may  be  found  in  Current  Biography,  Vol.  3 
(July,  1942),  pp.  65-68. 

Literature  about  Negroes  is  often  treated  in  connection  with  literature  by 
Negroes.  Some  general  studies  are  Benjamin  Brawley,  The  Negro  in  Literature 
and  Art  in  the  United  States  (191 8,  bib.);  Vernon  Loggins,  The  Negro  Author 
(1931,  bib.);  John  H.  Nelson,  The  Negro  Character  in  Amer.  Lit.  (Lawrence, 
Kans.,  1926);  Nick  A.  Ford,  The  Conte?nporary  Negro  Novel  (Boston,  1936); 
Charles  I.  Glicksberg,  "Negro  Fiction  in  America,"  South  Atlantic  Quart., 
Vol.  45  (Oct.,  1946),  pp.  477-488,  and  "Negro  Poets  and  the  American  Tradi- 
tion," Antioch  Rev.,  Vol.  6  (Summer,  1946),  pp.  243-253;  Edith  J.  R.  Isaacs, 
"The  Negro  in  the  American  Theatre,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  26  (Aug.,  1942), 
pp.  492-543. 

For  DuBose  Heyward:  see  Herman  Cohen,  "American  First  Editions: 
DuBose  Heyward,"  Publishers  Weekly,  Vol.  129  (April  18,  1936),  p.  163; 
Wren  Watkins,  "DuBose  Heyward,"  South.  Lit.  Mess.,  Vol.  2   (July,  1940), 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1095 

pp.  422-425.  Julia  Peterkin  is  discussed  in  R.  A.  Law,  "Mrs.  Peterkin's  Ne- 
groes," Southwest  Rev.,  Vol.  14  (July,  1929),  pp.  455-461. 

Representative  Negro  authors  are  treated  as  follows:  Paul  Laurence 
Dunbar  in  Andrew  M.  Burris,  "Bibliography  of  Works  by  Paul  Laurence 
Dunbar,"  Amer.  Collector,  Vol.  5  (1927),  pp.  69-73.  The  Complete  Poems 
(191 3)  contains  an  Intro,  by  W.  D.  Howells.  The  Best  Stories  of  Paul  Laurence 
Dunbar  (1938)  has  been  edited  by  Benjamin  Brawley,  who  has  also  written 
a  full-length  biography,  Paul  Laurence  Dunbar:  Poet  of  His  People  (Chapel 
Hill,  N.  C,  1936).  See  also  Jay  S.  Redding,  To  Make  a  Poet  Black  (Chapel 
Hill,  N.  C,  1939),  pp.  56-67;  Benjamin  G.  Brawley,  Negro  Builders  and  Heroes 
(Chapel  Hill,  N.  C.,  1937),  pp.  158-166.  For  William  Stanley  Braithwaite, 
consult  Sister  Francis  Teresa,  "Poet's  Discoverer,"  Phylon,  Vol.  5  (Fourth 
Quart.,  1944),  pp.  375-378.  For  James  Weldon  Johnson:  see  his  autobiography, 
Along  This  Way  (1933)  and  Intro,  to  his  Book  of  American  Negro  Poetry 
(1922).  Also  W.  A.  Aery,  "James  Weldon  Johnson:  American  Negro  of  Dis- 
tinction," School  and  Soc,  Vol.  48  (Sept.  3,  1938),  pp.  291-294.  For  Countee 
Cullen,  Langston  Hughes,  and  Claude  McKay,  see  reviews  of  their  books 
conveniently  listed  in  Fred  B.  Millett,  Contemporary  American  Authors; 
McKay  has  written  an  autobiography,  A  Long  Way  from  Ho?ne  (1937).  A 
biographical  sketch  of  Richard  Wright  is  "Native  Son,"  in  Edwin  R.  Embree, 
Thirteen  Against  the  Odds  (1944),  pp.  25-46.  Critical  estimates  include  David 
L.  Cohn,  "The  Negro  Novel:  Richard  Wright,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  165 
(May,  1940),  pp.  659-661;  Edwin  B.  Burgum,  "The  Promise  of  Democracy  in 
the  Fiction  of  Richard  Wright,"  Science  and  Society,  Vol.  7  (Sept.,  1943), 
pp.  338-353;  Ralph  Ellison,  "Richard  Wright's  Blues,"  Antioch  Rev.,  Vol.  5 
(June,  1945),  PP-  198-21 1;  Horace  Cayton,  "Frightened  Children  of  Frightened 
Parents,"  Twice  a  Year,  Vol.  12-13  (*945)i  PP-  262-269. 

For  Paul  Green:  critical  estimates  include  Howard  M.  Jones,  "Paul  Green," 
Southwest  Rev.,  Vol.  14  (Oct.,  1928),  pp.  1-8;  Carl  Carmer,  "Paul  Green:  The 
Making  of  an  American  Dramatist,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  16  (Dec,  1932),  pp. 
995-1006;  Edith  J.  R.  Isaacs,  "Paul  Green:  A  Case  in  Point,"  Theatre  Arts, 
Vol.  25  (July,  1941),  pp.  489-498. 

Of  the  poets  and  critics  associated  with  the  Fugitive,  John  Crowe  Ransom 
has  most  recently  been  discussed  in  the  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  ^6  (Summer,  1948) 
in  a  series  of  articles  written  in  his  honor.  See  also,  William  S.  Knickerbocker, 
"Mr.  Ransom  and  the  Old  South,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  39  (April-June,  1931 ), 
pp.  222-238;  J.  E.  Baker,  "Philosopher  and  New  Critic,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  50 
(April-June,  1942),  pp.  167-170;  Edwin  B.  Burgum,  "An  Examination  of 
Modern  Critics:  John  Crowe  Ransom,"  Rocky  Mt.  Rev.,  Vol.  8  (Spring,  1944), 
pp.  87-93.  For  Allen  Tate:  see  Willard  Thorp,  "Allen  Tate:  A  Checklist," 
Princeton  Univ.  Lib.  Chron.,  Vol.  3  (April,  1942),  pp.  85-98;  Cleanth  Brooks, 
Jr.,  and  Mark  Van  Doren,  "Modern  Poetry:  A  Symposium,"  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol. 
8  (Feb.,  1937),  pp.  427-456;  Arthur  Mizener,  "'The  Fathers'  and  Realistic 
Fiction,"  Accent,  Vol.  7  (Winter,  1947),  pp.  1 01- 109.  For  Merrill  Mooiie: 
see  Henry  W.  Wells,  The  American  Way  of  Poetry  (1943),  pp.  212-227; 
Dudley  Fitts,  "The  Sonnets  of  Merrill  Moore,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  47  (April- 
June,  1939),  pp.  268-293;  Louis  Untermeyer,  "Merrill  Moore,"  Sewanee  Rev., 
Vol.  43  (Jan.-March,  1935),  pp.  58-61.  For  Robert  Penn  Warren:  see  Irene 


io96  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

Hendrv,  "Regional  Novel:  The  Example  of  Robert  Penn  Warren,"  Sewanee 
Rev.,  Vol.  53  (Jan.,  1945),  pp.  84-102;  W.  P.  Southard,  "The  Religious  Poetry 
of  Robert  Penn  Warren,"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  7  (Autumn,  1945),  pp.  653-676; 
A  Southern  Vanguard  (1947),  ed.  Allen  Tate,  pp.  92-99;  Eric  Bentley,  "The 
/Meaning  of  Robert  Penn  Warren,"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  10  (Summer,  1948), 
pp.  407-424. 

For  Thomas  Wolfe:  information  about  his  publications  is  available  in 
George  R.  Preston,  Thomas  Wolfe:  A  Bibliography  (1943)  and  Bernice 
KaurTman,  "Bibliography  of  Periodical  Articles  on  Thomas  Wolfe,"  Bull,  of 
Bib.,  Vol.  17  (May- Aug.,  1942),  pp.  162-165.  Selections  from  his  writings 
include  The  Face  of  a  Nation  (1939),  Stories  by  Thomas  Wolfe  (1944),  The 
Hills  Beyond  (1944),  A  Stone,  a  Leaf,  a  Door:  Poems  by  Thomas  Wolfe 
(1945),  ed.  John  S.  Barnes,  The  Portable  Thomas  Wolfe  (1946),  ed.  M. 
Geismar.  The  most  extended  treatment  is  Herbert  J.  Muller,  Thomas  Wolfe 
(1947).  See  also  Maxwell  Geismar,  Writers  in  Crisis  (Boston,  1942),  pp.  185- 
236;  After  the  Genteel  Tradition  (1936),  ed.  Malcolm  Cowley,  pp.  202-212; 
E.  K.  Brown,  "Thomas  Wolfe:  Realist  and  Symbolist,"  Univ.  Toronto  Quart., 
Vol.  10  (Jan.,  1941),  pp.  153-166;  Edwin  B.  Burgum,  "Thomas  Wolfe's  Dis- 
covery of  America,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  22  (Summer,  1946),  pp.  421- 
427;  L.  Ruth  Middlebrook,  "Reminiscences  of  Tom  Wolfe,"  Amer.  Mercury, 
Vol.  63  (Nov.,  1946),  pp.  544-549;  64  (1947),  pp.  413-420.  Malcolm  Cowley, 
"Profiles,"  New  Yorker,  Vol.  20  (April  8,  1944),  pp.  30-43,  is  important  as 
defining  the  relationship  of  Wolfe  to  his  publisher  and  editor,  Maxwell 
Perkins.  This  relationship  is  still  more  fully  set  forth  in  Editor  to  Author: 
The  Letters  of  Maxwell  E.  Perkins,  ed.  J.  H.  Wheelock  (1950). 

Of  lesser  fiction  writers,  Katherine  A.  Porter  may  be  approached  through 
William  A.  Sylvester,  "Selected  and  Critical  Bibliography  of  the  Uncollected 
Works  of  Katherine  Anne  Porter,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  19  (1947),  p.  36.  She 
has  also  inspired  Lodwick  Hartley,  "Katherine  Anne  Porter,"  Sewanee  Rev., 
Vol.  48  (April,  1940),  pp.  201-2 16;  Robert  P.  Warren,  "Katherine  Anne  Porter 
(Irony  with  a  Center),"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  4  (Winter,  1942),  pp.  29-42;  V.  A. 
Young,  "The  Art  of  Katherine  Anne  Porter,"  New  Mexico  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol. 
15  (Autumn,  1945),  pp.  326-341;  Ray  B.  West,  Jr.,  "Katherine  Anne  Porter: 
Symbol  and  Theme  in  'Flowering  Judas',"  Accent,  Vol.  7  (Spring,  1947), 
pp.  182-188.  For  Eudora  Welty:  see  Robert  P.  Warren,  "The  Love  and 
Separateness  in  Miss  Welty,"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  6  (Spring,  1944),  pp.  246-259; 
Eunice  Glenn,  "Fantasy  in  the  Fiction  of  Eudora  Welty,"  in  A  Souther?!  Van- 
guard (1947),  ed.  Allen  Tate,  pp.  52-77.  For  Anne  Goodwin  Winslow:  see 
the  reviews  of  her  successive  books  as  listed  in  the  Book  Review  Digest. 


CHAPTER    49 

VITALIZERS  OF  THE  DRAMA 

For  recent  drama  in  general,  see  Joseph  A.  Weingarten,  Modern  American 
Playwrights  1918-1945:  A  Bibliography,  Part  I  (1946),  Part  II  (1947).  For 
information  about  productions,  casts,  etc.,  the  annual  Burns  Mantle  Best  Plays 
is  invaluable.  Some  of  the  most  detailed  and  authoritative  critical  comment  on 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1097 

the  playwrights  treated  in  this  chapter  will  be  found  in  Arthur  Hobson  Quinn, 
A  History  of  the  American  Drama  fro?n  the  Civil  War  to  the  Present  Day 
(rev.  edition,  1936).  For  a  running  chronicle  of  theatrical  events,  consult  the 
files  of  Theatre  Arts  Monthly. 

For  Edward  Sheldon:  critical  studies  may  be  found  in  Thomas  H.  Dickin- 
son, Playwrights  of  the  New  American  Theatre  (1925);  Walter  Pritchard 
Eaton,  At  the  New  Theatre  and  Others  (1910),  and  Plays  and  Players  (1916); 
Montrose  J.  Moses,  The  American  Dramatist  (191 7). 

For  Rachel  Crothers:  see  Anon.,  "Rachel  Crothers:  Pacemaker  for  Ameri- 
can Social  Comedy,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  16  (Dec,  1932),  pp.  971-972. 

For  Eugene  Gladstone  O'Neill:  Barrett  H.  Clark  and  Ralph  Sanborn  have 
compiled  A  Bibliography  of  the  Works  of  Eugene  O'Neill  (1931),  which  may 
be  supplemented  from  Allan  G.  Halline,  American  Plays  (1935),  pp.  763-766. 
The  following  collected  editions  have  been  issued:  The  Complete  Works,  2 
Vols.  (1924);  Complete  Works,  4  Vols.  (1925);  Plays,  5  Vols.  (1925-26); 
Plays,  3  Vols.  (1941).  More  inclusive  than  any  of  the  above  is  The  Plays  of 
Eugene  O'Neill,  12  Vols.  (1934-35).  Nine  Plays,  selected  by  the  author  with 
Intro,  by  Joseph  Wood  Krutch,  was  published  in  1941.  Full-length  studies  have 
been  written  by  Sophus  K.  Winther,  Eugene  O'Neill  (1934);  Richard  D. 
Skinner,  Eugene  O'Neill:  A  Poet's  Quest  (1935);  Barrett  H.  Clark,  Eugene 
O'Neill:  The  Man  and  His  Plays  (rev.  edition,  1947);  Otto  Koischwitz,  O'Neill 
(Berlin,  1938).  Horst  Frenz  has  made  "A  List  of  Foreign  Editions  and  Trans- 
lations of  Eugene  O'Neill's  Dramas,"  Bull,  of  Bib.,  Vol.  18  (1943),  pp.  33-34. 
Detailed  biography  and  shrewd  criticism  are  combined  in  Hamilton  Basso, 
"The  Tragic  Sense,"  New  Yorker,  Vol.  14  (Feb.  28,  March  6,  13,  1948),  pp. 
34-38  ff.;  34-38  ff.;  37-40  ff.  Among  innumerable  critical  studies  the  following 
may  be  mentioned:  Barrett  H.  Clark,  "Aeschylus  and  O'Neill,"  English  Journal, 
Vol.  21  (Nov.,  1932),  pp.  699-710;  L.  J.  Davidson,  "Lazarus  in  Modern  Litera- 
ture," English  Journal,  Vol.  18  (June,  1929),  pp.  16-23;  Bernard  DeVoto,  "Mi- 
nority Report,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  15  (Nov.  21,  1936),  pp.  3-4,  16;  Walter  P. 
Eaton,  "O'Neill— New  Risen  Attic  Stream?"  Amer.  Scholar,  Vol.  6  (Summer, 
1937),  pp.  304-312;  Montrose  J.  Moses,  "The  'New'  Eugene  O'Neill,"  North 
Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  236  (Dec,  1933),  pp.  543-549;  Edd  W.  Parks,  "Eugene 
O'Neill's  Symbolism,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  43  (Oct.-Dec,  1935),  pp.  436-450; 
Arthur  H.  Quinn,  "Eugene  O'Neill:  Poet  and  Mystic,"  Scribner's,  n.s.,  Vol.  80 
(Oct.,  1926),  pp.  368-372;  Homer  E.  Woodbridge,  "Eugene  O'Neill,"  South 
Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  37  (Jan.,  1938),  pp.  22-35;  Joseph  W.  Krutch,  "O'Neill's 
Tragic  Sense,"  Amer.  Scholar,  Vol.  16  (1947),  pp.  283-290;  Rudolf  Stamm, 
"The  Dramatic  Experiments  of  Eugene  O'Neill,"  English  Studies,  Vol.  28 
(1947),  pp.  1-15;  Clara  Blackburn,  "Continental  Influences  on  Eugene  O'Neill's 
Expressionistic  Drama,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  13  (May,  1941),  pp.  109-133;  Eric 
Bentley,  "The  Return  of  Eugene  O'Neill,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  178  (1946), 
pp.  64-66;  George  J.  Nathan,  "O'Neill:  A  Critical  Summation,"  Amer. 
Mercury,  Vol.  63  (Dec,  1946),  pp.  713-719;  Bonamy  Dobree,  "Mr.  O'Neill's 
Last  Play,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  <^6  (Jan.-March,  1948),  pp.  1 18-126;  Rudolf 
Stamm,  "A  New  Play  by  Engene  O'Neill,"  English  Studies,  Vol.  29  (1948), 
pp.  138-145. 

For  Philip  Barry:  the  most  readily  available  studies  are  in  connection  with 


io98  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

plays  reprinted  in  anthologies,  Paris  Bound  in  Arthur  H.  Quinn,  Representa- 
tive American  Plays  (rev.  edition,  1938),  and  You  and  1  in  Allan  G.  Halline, 
American  Plays  (1935).  Also  G.  C.  Hamm,  Philip  Barry:  A  Critical  Study 
(Univ.  of  Penna.  thesis,  1947). 

For  Thornton  Wilder:  critical  comment  is  more  plentiful.  See  E.  G. 
Twitchett,  "Mr.  Thornton  Wilder,"  London  Mercury,  Vol.  22  (May,  1930), 
pp.  32-39;  Longworth  Chambrun,  "L'Americanisme  de  Thornton  Wilder," 
Revue  Anglo-Amer.,  Vol.  8  (April,  1931 ),  pp.  341-344;  E.  K.  Brown,  "A 
Christian  Humanist:  Thornton  Wilder,"  Univ.  Toronto  Quart.,  Vol.  4  (April, 
1935),  pp.  356-370;  Walther  Fischer,  "Thornton  Wilder's  The  Bridge  of  Sa?i 
Luis  Rey  und  Prosper  Merimee's  Le  Carosse  du  Saint-Sacrement"  Anglia,  Vol. 
60  (Jan.,  1936),  pp.  234-240;  Edith  J.  R.  Isaacs,  "Thornton  Wilder  in  Person," 
Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  27  (Jan.,  1943),  PP-  21-30;  Edmund  Wilson,  "The  Antro- 
buses  and  the  Earwickers,"  Nation,  Vol.  156  (Jan.  30,  1943),  pp.  167-168; 
Henry  Adler,  "Thornton  Wilder's  Theatre,"  Horizon,  Vol.  11  (Aug.,  1945), 
pp.  89-98. 

For  Maxwell  Anderson:  a  list  of  reviews  and  studies  is  given  in  Montrose 
J.  Moses,  Dramas  of  Modernism  and  Their  Forerunners  (Boston,  1941),  pp. 
931-933.  Three  American  Plays  (1926)  includes  the  pieces  written  in  collabora- 
tion with  Laurence  Stallings;  Eleven  Verse  Plays  (1940)  contains  the  best  of 
Anderson's  work  to  1939.  For  critical  appraisal  and  comment,  see  Barrett  H. 
Clark,  Maxwell  Anderson:  The  Man  and  His  Plays  (1933);  Carl  Carmer, 
Maxwell  Anderson:  Poet  and  Champion,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  17  (June, 
1933 )^  PP-  437-446;  Edith  J.  R.  Isaacs,  "Maxwell  Anderson,"  English  Journal, 
Vol.  25  (Dec,  1936),  pp.  795-803;  Herbert  E.  Childs,  "Playgoer's  Playwright, 
Maxwell  Anderson,"  English  Journal,  Vol.  27  (June,  1938),  pp.  475-485; 
Harold  Rosenberg,  "Poetry  and  the  Theatre,"  Poetry,  Vol.  57  (Jan.,  1941),  pp. 
258-263;  Vincent  Wall,  "Maxwell  Anderson:  The  Last  Anarchist,"  Sewanee 
Rev.,  Vol.  49  (July-Sept.,  1941),  pp.  339-369;  E.  Foster,  "Core  of  Belief:  In- 
terpretation of  the  Plays  of  Maxwell  Anderson,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  50  (Jan.- 
March,  1942),  pp.  87-100;  J.  S.  Rodell,  "Maxwell  Anderson:  A  Criticism," 
Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  5  (Spring,  1943),  PP-  272-277;  Allan  G.  Halline,  "Maxwell 
Anderson's  Dramatic  Theory,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  16  (May,  1944),  pp.  63-81; 
Homer  E.  Woodbridge,  "Maxwell  Anderson,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  44 
(Jan.,  1945),  PP-  55-68;  Samuel  Kliger,  "Hebraic  Lore  in  Maxwell  Anderson's 
Winterset,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  18  (Nov.,  1946),  pp.  219-232. 

For  Sidney  Howard:  see  Joseph  W.  Krutch,  "The  Dramatic  Variety  of 
Sidney  Howard,"  Nation,  Vol.  137  (Sept.  13,  1933),  pp.  294-295;  Barrett  H. 
Clark,  "Letters  from  Sidney  Howard,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  25  (April,  1941), 
pp.  276-286. 

For  Samuel  Nathaniel  Behrman:  see  Joseph  Mersand,  "S.  N.  Behrman  and 
the  American  Comedy  of  Manners,"  Players'  Mag.,  Vol.  17  (April,  1941), 
pp.  6-8. 

For  Marc  Connelly:  see  Stark  Young,  "The  Green  Pastures,"  New  Republic, 
Vol.  62  (March  19,  1930),  pp.  128-129;  Carl  Carmer,  "The  Green  Pastures," 
Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  14  (Oct.,  1930),  pp.  897-898;  Robert  Withington,  "Notes 
on  the  Corpus  Christi  Plays  and  'The  Green  Pastures',"  Shakespeare  Assn. 
Bull.,  Vol.  9  (Oct.,  1934),  pp.  193-197. 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1099 

For  George  S.  Kaufman:  see  Carl  Carmer,  "George  Kaufman:  Play  maker 
to  Broadway,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  16  (Oct.,  1932),  pp.  807-815;  Montrose  J. 
Moses,  "George  S.  Kaufman,"  North  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  237  (  Jan.,  1934),  pp. 
76-83. 

For  Robert  E.  Sherwood:  see  Robert  C.  Healey,  "Anderson,  Saroyan,  Sher- 
wood: New  Directions,"  Catholic  World,  Vol.  152  (Nov.,  1940),  pp.  174-180; 
John  Gassner,  "Robert  Emmet  Sherwood,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol.  158  (Jan., 
1942),  pp.  26-33;  Oscar  J.  Campbell,  "Robert  Sherwood  and  His  Times," 
College  English,  Vol.  4  (Feb.,  1943),  pp.  275-280. 


CHAPTER    50 

CROSS-CURRENTS  IN  AMERICAN  THOUGHT 

The  writers  treated  in  this  chapter  are  less  relevant  to  the  history  of  literature 
than  to  the  history  of  thought.  For  the  general  philosophic  background,  see 
Herbert  Schneider,  A  History  of  American  Philosophy  (1946);  Woodbridge 
Riley,  American  Thought  from  Puritanism  to  Pragmatism  (rev.  edition,  1925); 
T.  V.  Smith,  The  Philosophic  Way  of  Life  in  America  (rev.  edition,  1942). 
Other  useful  volumes  are  Louis  Filler,  Crusaders  for  American  Liberalism. 
(1939);  Merle  Curti,  The  Growth  of  American  Thought  (1943);  Howard 
M.  Jones,  Ideas  in  America  (Cambridge,  1944);  Dixon  Wecter,  The  Saga  of 
American  Society  (1937).  Historical  writing  in  particular  is  dealt  with  in 
Harry  Elmer  Barnes,  A  History  of  Historical  Writing  (Norman,  Okla.,  1937); 
and  Michael  Kraus,  The  History  of  American  History  (1937).  A  suggestive 
treatment  of  mental  climate  is  Leo  Gurka,  The  Angry  Decade  (1947),  a  survey 
of  American  thought  from  1929  to  1939. 

For  Josiah  Royce:  the  most  illuminating  study  is  that  contained  in  George 
Santayana,  Character  and  Opinion  in  the  United  States  (1920).  See  also  Ralph 
H.  Gabriel,  The  Course  of  American  Democratic  Thought  (1940),  pp.  280- 
289;  and  the  symposium  by  various  philosophers  Papers  in  Honor  of  Josiah 
Royce  (191 6).  A  recent  study  is  Stuart  G.  Brown,  "From  Provincialism  to  the 
Great  Community:  The  Social  Philosophy  of  Josiah  Royce,"  Ethics,  Vol.  59 
(Oct.,  1948),  pp.  14-34. 

For  William  James:  an  Annotated  Bibliography  of  the  Writings  of  William 
James  (1920)  has  been  compiled  by  Ralph  B.  Perry,  who  is  also  the  author  of 
the  standard  biography  The  Thought  and  Character  of  William  James,  2  Vols. 
(Boston,  1935),  and  of  a  critical  study  In  the  Spirit  of  William  James  (New 
Haven,  1938).  The  Letters  of  William  James,  2  Vols.  (Boston,  1920),  have 
been  edited  by  his  son  Henry  James.  Some  important  estimates  include  Paul 
Elmer  More,  "The  Pragmatism  of  William  James,"  in  Shelburne  Essays, 
Seventh  Series  (19 10),  pp.  195-212;  Arthur  O.  Lovejoy,  "William  James  as 
Philosopher,"  Internat.  Jour.  Ethics,  Vol.  21  (191 1),  pp.  125-153;  George 
Santayana,  Character  and  Opinion  in  the  United  States  (1920),  pp.  64-96; 
Charles  K.  Trueblood,  "The  Education  of  William  James,"  Dial,  Vol.  83  (Oct., 
1927),  pp.  301-314;  Frederic  I.  Carpenter,  "Points  of  Comparison  Between 
Emerson  and  William  James,"  New  Eng.  Quart.,  Vol.  2  (July,  1929),  pp. 
458-474;  Max  I.  Baym,  "William  James  and  Henry  Adams,"  New  England 


moo  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

Quart.,  Vol.  10  (Dec,  1937),  pp.  717-742;  Justus  Buchler,  "The  Philosopher, 
the  Common  Man  and  William  James,"  Amer.  Scholar,  Vol.  11  (Autumn, 
1942),  pp.  416-426;  Irwin  Edman,  "For  a  New  World,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  108 
(Feb.  15,  1943),  PP-  224-228;  "William  James:  Man  of  Letters"  in  John  Macy, 
The  Critical  Game  (1922),  pp.  175-189;  William  S.  Anient,  "William  James 
as  a  Man  of  Letters,"  Personalist,  Vol.  23  (Spring,  1942),  pp.  199-206;  Jaques 
Barzun,  "William  James  as  Artist,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  108  (Feb.  15,  1943),  pp. 
218-220;  Eliseo  Vivas,  "Henry  and  William  James:  Two  Notes,"  Kenyon  Rev., 
Vol.  5  (Autumn,  1943),  pp.  580-594. 

For  George  Santayana:  a  bibliography  is  contained  in  Paul  A.  Schilpp, 
The  Philosophy  of  George  Santayana  (Chicago,  1940),  pp.  607-668.  Two 
useful  volumes  of  extracts  are  Little  Essays  Drawn  from  the  Writings  of 
George  Santayana  (London,  1920),  ed.  Logan  P.  Smith,  and  The  Philosophy 
of  Santayana,  Modern  Library  (1942),  ed.  Irwin  Edman.  Two  volumes  of 
Santayana's  autobiography  have  appeared  as  Persons  and  Places  (1944)  and 
The  Middle  Span  ( 1945).  Critical  biographies  have  been  written  by  George  W. 
Howgate,  George  Santayana  (Philadelphia,  1938),  and  Van  Meter  Ames, 
Proust  and  Santayana  (Chicago,  1937).  Among  many  critical  papers  'the 
following  are  most  pertinent  here:  Horace  M.  Kallen,  "America  and  the  Life 
of  Reason,"  Jour.  Philos.,  Vol.  18  (Sept.  29,  Oct.  13,  192 1),  pp.  533-551,  568- 
575;  Sterling  P.  Lamprecht,  "Santayana,  Then  and  Now,"  Jour.  Philos.,  Vol.  25 
(Sept.  27,  1928),  pp.  533-550;  Hugo  T.  Saglio,  "Implications  of  The  Life  of 
Reaso?2,"  Jour.  Philos.,  Vol.  28  (Sept.  24,  193 1 ),  pp.  533-544;  John  H.  Randall, 
Jr.,  "The  Latent  Idealism  of  a  Materialist,"  Jour.  Philos.,  Vol.  28  (Nov.  19, 
193 1 ),  pp.  645-660;  Sterling  P.  Lamprecht,  "Naturalism  and  Agnosticism  in 
Santayana,"  Jour.  Philos.,  Vol.  28  (Oct.  12,  193 1),  pp.  561-574;  John  C.  Ran- 
som, "Art  and  Mr.  Santayana,"  Virginia  Quart.  Rev.,  Vol.  13  (Summer,  1937), 
pp.  420-436;  Philip  B.  Rice,  "The  Philosopher  as  Poet,"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  2 
(Autumn,  1940),  pp.  460-475;  Harold  A.  Larrabee,  "George  Santayana," 
Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  39  (April-June,  and  July-Sept.,  193 1 ),  pp.  209-221,  325- 
338,  and  "Robert  Bridges  and  George  Santayana,"  Amer.  Scholar,  Vol.  1 
(March,  1932),  pp.  167-182;  Irwin  Edman,  "Santayana  at  Seventy,"  Sat.  Rev. 
Lit.,  Vol.  10  (Dec.  16,  1933),  pp.  349-350;  George  W.  Howgate,  "Santayana 
and  Humanism,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  43  (Jan.-March,  1935),  pp.  49-57;  J. 
Glenn  Gray,  "Plato  the  Greek  and  Santayana  the  Cosmopolitan,"  Amer. 
Scholar,  Vol.  12  (Spring,  1943),  pp.  186-204;  Justus  Buchler,  "George  Santa- 
yana's The  Last  Puritan,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  9  (June,  1936),  pp.  281- 
285;  Daniel  Aaron,  "A  Postscript  to  The  Last  Puritan"  New  England  Quart., 
Vol.  9  (Dec,  1936),  pp.  683-686. 

For  John  Dewey:  the  best  bibliographical  listing  is  contained  in  Paul  A. 
Schilpp,  The  Philosophy  of  John  Dewey  (Chicago,  1939),  pp.  609-676.  Other 
useful  collections  arc  The  Philosophy  of  John  Dewey  (1928),  ed.  Joseph 
Rattier,  and  Intelligence  in  the  Modern  World,  Modern  Library  (1939)  by  the 
same  editor.  Estimates  of  Dewey  include  Sidney  Hook,  John  Dewey:  An  In- 
tellectual Portrait  (1939);  William  T.  Feldman,  The  Philosophy  of  John  Dewey 
(Baltimore,  1934);  a  symposium  entitled  John  Dewey:  The  Man  and  His 
Philosophy  (Cambridge,  1930);  Morton  G.  White,  The  Origin  of  Dewey's 
Instrumentalism   (1943);  George  Santayana,  Obiter  Scripta    (1936);   Scuddcr 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  hoi 

Klyce,  Dewey's  Suppressed  Psychology  (Winchester,  Mass.,  1928);  Irwin 
Edman,  "Our  Foremost  Philosopher  at  Seventy,"  New  York  Times  Mag., 
(Oct.  13,  1929),  pp.  3,  23;  Folke  Leander,  "John  Dewey  and  the  Classical 
Tradition,"  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  9  (Oct.,  1937),  pp.  504-527;  V.  C.  Aldrich, 
"John  Dewey's  Use  of  Language,"  Jour.  Philos.,  Vol.  41   (1944),  pp.  261-271. 

For  William  Graham  Sumner:  the  standard  collection  is  Essays  of  William 
Graham  Sumner,  2  Vols.  (New  Haven,  1934),  ed.  Albert  G.  Keller  and 
Maurice  R.  Davie.  For  brief  comment,  see  Ralph  H.  Gabriel,  The  Course  of 
American  Democratic  Thought  (1940),  pp.  237-250. 

For  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Jr.:  the  juridical  writings  have  been  collected 
in  The  Judicial  Opinions  of  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  (Buffalo,  1940),  ed.  Harry 
C.  Shriver;  The  Dissenting  Opinions  of  Mr.  Justice  Holmes  (1929),  ed.  Alfred 
Lief.  Mark  A.  De  Wolfe  Howe  has  edited  Holmes-Pollock  Letters,  2  Vols. 
(Cambridge,  1941),  and  Touched  with  Tire:  Civil  War  Letters  and  Diary  of 
Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  (Cambridge,  1946).  A  biography  is  by  Silas  Bent, 
Justice  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  (1932),  and  a  personal  sketch  appears  in 
Elizabeth  S.  Sergeant,  Fire  Under  the  Andes  (1927),  pp.  307-331.  A  critical 
paper  is  Daniel  J.  Boorstin,  "The  Elusiveness  of  Mr.  Justice  Holmes,"  New 
England  Quart.,  Vol.  14  (Sept.,  1941),  pp.  478-487. 

For  Woodrow  Wilson:  considered  here  only  as  a  man  of  letters,  the  best 
single  source  is  Selected  Literary  and  Political  Papers  and  Addresses  of  Wood- 
row  Wilson,  3  Vols.  (1925-27).  The  standard  biography  is  Ray  S.  Baker, 
Woodrow  Wilson:  Life  and  Letters,  8  Vols.  (Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1927-39), 
and  the  same  author's  Woodrow  Wilson  and  World  Settlement,  3  Vols. 
(Garden  City,  N.  Y.,  1922).  Estimates  of  Wilson  as  a  writer  and  historical 
student  are  available  in  Bliss  Perry,  In  Praise  of  Folly  and  Other  Papers  (Bos- 
ton, 1923),  pp.  1 5 1- 1 70;  Marjorie  L.  Daniel,  "Woodrow  Wilson,  Historian," 
Mississippi  Valley  Hist.  Rev.,  Vol.  21  (1934),  pp.  361-374;  Stockton  Axson, 
Woodrow  Wilson  as  Man  of  Letters  (Houston,  1935);  Dayton  D.  McKean, 
"Woodrow  Wilson"  in  A  History  and  Criticism  of  American  Public  Ad- 
dress, Vol.  2  (1943),  pp.  968-992,  ed.  William  N.  Brigance. 

For  the  historians  mentioned,  see  the  general  treatments  of  historiography 
listed  above. 

For  Vernon  L.  Parrington:  see  A.  P.  Cappon,  "Parrington:  A  Liberal  of  the 
Northwest,"  New  Humanist,  Vol.  5  (Jan.-Feb.,  1932),  pp.  1-9;  Granville  Hicks, 
"The  Critical  Principles  of  V.  L.  Parrington,"  Science  and  Society,  Vol.  3 
(Fall,  1939),  pp.  142-164;  and  Alfred  Kazin,  On  Native  Grounds  (1942),  pp. 
155-164. 

CHAPTER    51 

PROLETARIAN  LEANINGS 

The  general  tendencies  of  Marxian  radicalism  are  voluminously  set  forth  in 
the  files  of  the  Masses  (1911-18),  the  Liberator  (1918-24),  and  the  New  Masses 
(192 6-).  Under  the  last  two  titles  this  publication  was  an  organ  of  the  Com- 
munist party  line.  The  atmosphere  in  Chicago  and  New  York  radical  circles 
is  well  given  by  Floyd  Dell,  Homecoming:  An  Autobiography  (1933).  See 
also  Granville  Hicks,  "The  Fighting  Decade,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  22  (July  6, 


no2  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

1940),  pp.  3-5,  16-17.  For  information  about  minor  writers  mentioned  in  this 
chapter,  see  the  bio-bibliographies  in  Fred  B.  Millett,  Contemporary  American 
Authors  (1940). 

For  John  Reed:  see  Granville  Hicks,  John  Reed:  The  Making  of  a  Revolu- 
tionary (1936);  Max  Eastman,  "John  Reed  and  the  Old  Masses,"  Modern 
Monthly,  Vol.  10  (Oct.,  1936),  pp.  19-22. 

For  Max  Eastman:  see  Van  Wyck  Brooks,  Sketches  in  Criticism  (1932), 
pp.  279-290;  Charles  I.  Glicksberg,  "Max  Eastman:  Literary  Insurgent," 
Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  44  (July-Sept.,  1936),  pp.  323-337. 

For  Waldo  Frank:  see  Gorham  B.  Munson,  Waldo  Frank:  A  Study  (1923); 
John  Jocelvn,  "Getting  at  Waldo  Frank,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  40  (Oct.-Dec, 
1932),  pp.  405-413;  Donald  Davidson,  "Waldo  Frank,"  Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  4 
(Dec,  1934),  pp.  233-238;  Charles  I.  Glicksberg,  "Waldo  Frank:  Critic  of 
America,"  South  Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  35  (Jan.,  1936),  pp.  13-26. 

For  Granville  Hicks:  see  James  T.  Farrell,  "Air.  Hicks:  Critical  Vulgarian," 
Amer.  Spectator,  Vol.  4  (April,  1936),  pp.  21-26;  Charles  I.  Glicksberg,  "Gran- 
ville Hicks  and  Marxist  Criticism,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  45  (April,  1937),  pp. 
129-140. 

For  John  Steinbeck:  see  Lawrence  C.  Powell,  "Toward  a  Bibliography  of 
John  Steinbeck,"  Colophon,  n.s.,  Vol.  3  (1938),  pp.  558-568.  The  Portable 
Steinbeck  (1943),  selected  by  Pascal  Covici,  is  the  most  convenient  volume  of 
selections.  Critical  appraisals  include  Harry  T.  Moore,  The  Novels  of  John 
Steinbeck  (Chicago,  1939);  Maxwell  Geismar,  Writers  in  Crisis  (Boston, 
1942),  pp.  237-270;  Percy  H.  Boynton,  America  in  Contemporary  Fiction 
(Chicago,  1940),  pp.  241-257;  Joseph  W.  Beach,  American  Fiction  (1941),  pp. 
309-347;  Thomas  K.  Whipple,  Study  Out  the  Land  (Berkeley,  Calif.,  1943),  pp. 
1 05-1 11;  Edmund  C.  Richards,  "The  Challenge  of  John  Steinbeck,"  North 
Amer.  Rev.,  Vol.  243  (Summer,  1937),  PP-  406-413;  Claude  E.  Jones,  "Prole- 
tarian Writing  and  John  Steinbeck,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  48  (Oct.,  1940),  pp. 
445-456;  Frederic  I.  Carpenter,  "The  Philosophical  Joads,"  College  English, 
Vol.  2  (Jan.,  1 94 1 ) ,  pp.  315-325;  Martin  S.  Shockley,  "The  Reception  of  The 
Grapes  of  Wrath  in  Oklahoma,"  Amer.  Lit.,  Vol.  15  (Jan.,  1944),  pp.  351-361; 
Lewis  Gannett,  "John  Steinbeck:  Novelist  at  Work,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  Vol. 
176  (Dec,  1945),  PP-  55-61;  Barker  Fairley,  "John  Steinbeck  and  the  Coming 
Literature,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  50  (April,  1942),  pp.  145-161;  Edwin  B.  Bur- 
gum,  "The  Sensibility  of  John  Steinbeck,"  Science  and  Society,  Vol.  10  (Spring, 
1946),  pp.  132-147. 

For  Clifford  Odets:  an  accessible  collection  is  Six  Plays  of  Clifford  Odets, 
Modern  Library  (1939).  Commentary  may  be  found  in  Joseph  W.  Krutch, 
The  American  Drama  Since  1918  (1939),  pp.  263-277;  Burns  Mantle,  Con- 
temporary American  Playwrights  (1938),  pp.  115-121;  John  McCarten,  "Revo- 
lution's Number  One  Boy,"  New  Yorker,  Vol.  13  (Jan.  22,  1938),  pp.  21-27; 
Edith  J.  R.  Isaacs,  "Clifford  Odets:  First  Chapters,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  23 
(April,  1939),  pp.  257-264;  R.  S.  Warshow,  "Poet  of  the  Jewish  Middle  Class," 
Commentary,  Vol.   1    (Jan.,  1946),  pp.  17-22. 

For  Elmer  Rice:  representative  estimates  may  be  found  in  Arthur  H.  Quinn, 
A  History  of  the  American  Drama  from  the  Civil  War  to  the  Present  Day 
(1936),    pp.    262-264;    Burns    Mantle,    Contemporary    American    Playwrights 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1103 

(1938),  pp.  54-61;  Meyer  Levin,  "Elmer  Rice,"  Theatre  Arts,  Vol.  16  (Jan., 
1932),  pp.  54-62. 

CHAPTER    52 

NEW  MOVEMENTS  IN  POETRY 

For  elucidation  and  criticism  of  modernist  poetry  the  following  are  invaluable: 
Kenneth  Burke,  Counter-Statement  (1931);  Poetry  Supplement  of  the  Ameri- 
can Review,  Vol.  3  (May,  1934),  pp.  172-265,  ed.  Allen  Tate;  Allen  Tate, 
Reactionary  Essays  on  Poetry  and  Ideas  (1936);  Babette  Deutsch,  This  Mod- 
ern Poetry  (1935);  Richard  P.  Blackmur,  The  Double  Agent  (1935);  Yvor 
Winters,  Primitivism  and  Decadence  (1937);  Cleanth  Brooks,  Modern  Poetry 
and  the  Tradition  (Chapel  Hill,  N.  C,  1939);  William  Van  O'Connor,  Sense 
and  Sensibility  in  Modern  Poetry  (Chicago,  1948). 

The  discussion  of  poetic  aims  and  methods  has  also  been  carried  on  in  the 
magazines.  See  chiefly  William  R.  Benet,  "Poetry  Today  in  America,"  Sat. 
Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  22  (Aug.  10,  1940),  pp.  3-4,  16-17;  Howard  Blake,  "Thoughts 
on  Modern  Poetry,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  43  (April-June,  1935),  pp.  187-196; 
Cleanth  Brooks,  "Three  Revolutions  in  Poetry,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  1  (July, 
Autumn,  1935),  pp.  151-163,  328-338;  Babette  Deutsch,  "The  Poet  and  the 
War,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  107  (Dec.  7,  1942),  pp.  741-743;  Max  Eastman, 
"The  Tendency  toward  Pure  Poetry,"  Harper's,  Vol.  159  (July,  1929),  pp. 
221-230;  Charles  I.  Glicksberg,  "Poetry  and  the  Second  World  War,"  South 
Atlantic  Quart.,  Vol.  44  (Jan.,  1945),  pp.  42-54;  Horace  Gregory,  "Of  Vitality, 
Regionalism  and  Satire  in  Recent  American  Poetry,"  Sewanee  Rev.,  Vol.  52 
(Oct.-Dec,  1944),  pp.  572-593;  DuBose  Heyward,  "Contemporary  Southern 
Poetry,"  Bookman,  Vol.  62  (Jan.,  1926),  pp.  561-564;  Robert  Hilly er,  "Modern 
Poetry  vs.  the  Common  Reader,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  28  (March,  1945),  pp. 
5-7;  Richard  F.  Jones,  "Nationalism  and  Imagism  in  Modern  American  Poetry," 
Washington  Univ.  Stud.,  Vol.  11  (Oct.,  1923),  pp.  97-130;  Louise  Pound,  "The 
Future  of  Poetry,"  College  English,  Vol.  5  (Jan.,  1944),  pp.  180-186;  Herbert 
Read  and  others,  "The  Present  State  of  Poetry,"  Kenyon  Rev.,  Vol.  1 
(Autumn,  1939),  pp.  359-398;  Allen  Tate,  "Understanding  Modern  Poetry," 
College  English,  Vol.  1  (April,  1940),  pp.  561-572;  Lawrance  Thompson, 
"Background  for  Modern  Poetry,"  Antioch  Rev.,  Vol.  2  (Spring,  1942),  pp. 
90-102;  Louis  Untermeyer,  "Daughters  of  Niobe,"  Amer.  Spectator,  Vol.  1 
(Nov.,  1932),  p.  4;  Clement  Wood,  "Stocktaking:  American  Poetry,  1942," 
South.  Lit.  Mess.,  Vol.  4  (March,  1942),  pp.  106-111;  Morton  D.  Zabel, 
"American  Poetry:  1934,"  New  Republic,  Vol.  81  (Dec.  12,  1934),  pp.  134-135; 
Richmond  C.  Beatty,  "The  Heritage  of  Symbolism  in  Modern  Poetry,"  Yale 
Rev.,  Vol.  36  (1947).  PP-  467-477- 

For  Edward  Estlin  Cummings:  the  Harvard  Wake,  No.  5  (Spring,  1946), 
is  a  "Cummings  Number"  with  contributions  by  fifteen  writers.  For  other 
critical  comment,  see  Maurice  Lesemann,  "The  Poetry  of  E.  E.  Cummings," 
Poetry,  Vol.  29  (Dec,  1926),  pp.  164-169;  John  P.  Bishop,  "The  Poems  and 
Prose  of  E.  E.  Cummings,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  4  (July,  1938),  pp.  173-186; 
John  Finch,  "New  England  Prodigal,"  New  England  Quart.,  Vol.  12  (Dec, 
1939),  pp.  643-653;  John  Arthos,  "The  Poetry  of  E.  E.  Cummings,"  Amer.  Lit., 


1 1  o4  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

Vol.  14  (Jan.,  1943),  pp.  372-383;  Joseph  Axelrod,  "Cummings  and  Phonetics," 
Poetry,  Vol.  6$  (Nov.,  1944),  pp.  88-94. 

For  Marianne  Moore:  an  important  early  estimate  is  Harriet  Monroe, 
"Symposium  on  Marianne  Moore,"  Poetry,  Vol.  19  (Jan.,  1922),  pp.  208-216; 
see  also  William  C.  Williams,  "Marianne  Moore,"  Dial,  Vol.  78  (May,  1925), 
pp.  393-401;  Richard  P.  Blackmur,  The  Double  Agent  (1935),  pp.  141-171; 
Morton  D.  Zabel,  Literary  Opinion  in  America  (1937),  pp.  426-436;  Kenneth 
Burke,  "Motives  and  Motifs  in  the  Poetry  of  Marianne  Moore,"  Accent,  Vol. 
2  (Spring,  1942),  pp.  157-169.  Recent  appreciation  may  be  found  in  the 
"Marianne  Moore  Issue"  of  the  Quarterly  Review  of  Literature,  Vol.  4  (1948), 
pp.  125-223. 

For  Hart  Crane:  consult  first  The  Collected  Poems  of  Hart  Crane  (1933) 
with  Intro,  by  Waldo  Frank.  Biographies  are  Philip  Horton,  Hart  Crane:  The 
Life  of  an  Ainerican  Poet  (1937),  and  Brom  Weber,  Hart  Crane:  A  Biograph- 
ical and  Critical  Study  (1948).  The  latter  has  also  edited  Collection  of  Hart 
Crane's  Letters  and  Journals  (1948).  For  critical  estimates,  see  Allen  Tate, 
Reactionary  Essays  on  Poetry  and  Ideas  (1936),  pp.  26-42;  Richard  P.  Black- 
mur, The  Double  Agent,  pp.  1 21-140;  Yvor  Winters,  "The  Progress  of  Hart 
Crane,"  Poetry,  Vol.  36  (June,  1930),  pp.  153-165;  Morton  D.  Zabel,  "The 
Book  of  Hart  Crane,"  Poetry,  Vol.  42  (April,  1933),  pp.  33-39;  Howard  Moss, 
"Disorder  as  Myth:  Hart  Crane's  The  Bridge,"  Poetry,  Vol.  62  (April,  1943), 
pp.  32-45;  Hyatt  H.  Waggoner,  "Hart  Crane's  Bridge  to  Cathay,"  Amer.  Lit., 
Vol.  16  (May,  1944),  pp.  1 15-130;  and  "Hart  Crane  and  the  Broken  Parabola," 
Univ.  of  Kansas  City  Rev.,  Vol.  8  (Summer,  1945),  pp.  173-177. 

For  Wallace  Stevens:  no  collected  edition  of  his  poems  has  yet  appeared. 
Previous  to  1935  all  comments  on  his  work  are  based  on  Harmonium  (1923; 
new  edition,  193 1).  Among  early  appraisals  note  Llewelyn  Powys,  "The 
Thirteenth  Way,"  Dial,  Vol.  77  (July,  1924),  pp.  45-50;  Gorham  Munson, 
"The  Dandyism  of  Wallace  Stevens,"  Dial,  Vol.  79  (Nov.,  1925),  pp.  413-417; 
Morton  D.  Zabel,  "The  Harmonium  of  Wallace  Stevens,"  Poetry,  Vol.  39 
(Dec,  193 1 ),  pp.  148-151;  Richard  P.  Blackmur,  "Examples  of  Wallace 
Stevens,"  Hound  and  Horn,  Vol.  5  (Jan.-March,  1932),  pp.  223-255.  Later 
estimates  may  be  found  in  the  "Wallace  Stevens  Number"  of  the  Harvard 
Advocate,  Vol.  127,  no.  3  (Dec,  1940);  Yvor  Winters,  The  Anatomy  of  Non- 
sense (Norfolk,  Conn.,  1943),  pp.  88-119;  Howard  Baker,  "Wallace  Stevens 
and  Other  Poets,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  1  (Autumn,  1935),  pp.  373-389;  Mari- 
anne Moore,  "Unanimity  and  Fortitude,"  Poetry,  Vol.  49  (Feb.,  1937),  pp. 
268-272;  Hi  Simons,  "'The  Comedian  as  the  Letter  C:  Its  Sense  and  Its 
Significance,"  Southern  Rev.,  Vol.  5  (1940),  pp.  453-468;  Julian  Symons,  "A 
Short  View  of  Wallace  Stevens,"  Life  and  Letters  Today,  Vol.  26  (1940),  pp. 
215-224;  Harvey  Brcit,  "Sanity  That  Is  Magic,"  Poetry,  Vol.  62  (April,  1943), 
pp.  48-50;  Wylie  Sypher,  "Connoisseur  in  Chaos:  Wallace  Stevens,"  Partisan 
Rev.,  Vol.  13  (Winter,  1946),  pp.  83-94;  L-  L.  Martz,  "Wallace  Stevens:  The 
Romance  of  the  Precise,"  Yale  Poetry  Rev.,  Vol.  2  (Aug.,  1946),  pp.  13-20; 
Peter  Viereck,  "Some  Notes  on  Wallace  Stevens,"  Contemporary  Poetry,  Vol. 
7  (Winter,  1948),  pp.  14-15;  W.  Van  O'Connor,  The  Shapiiig  Spirit  (1950). 

For  William  Carlos  Williams:  sec  Selected  Poems  (1949)  with  Intro,  by 
Randall  Jarrell;  Collected  Poems,   1921-1931    (1934)   with  Intro,   by  Wallace 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  1105 

Stevens;  The  Complete  Collected  Poems  of  William  Carlos  Williams  (Norfolk, 
Conn.,  1938).  Williams  has  recently  published  some  biographical  material, 
"Some  Notes  toward  an  Autobiography:  The  Childish  Background,"  Poetry, 
Vol.  72  (June,  Aug.,  1948),  pp.  147-155,  264-270,  and  "Something  for  a 
Biography,"  Gen.  Mag.  and  Hist.  Chron.,  Vol.  50  (1948),  pp.  211-212.  The 
best  analytical  account  of  Williams  as  a  poet  is  by  Vivienne  Koch,  William 
Carlos  Williams  (1950).  See  also  Kenneth  Burke,  "William  Carlos  Williams, 
The  Methods  of,"  Dial,  Vol.  82  (Feb.,  1927),  pp.  94-98;  Carl  Rakosi,  "William 
Carlos  Williams,"  Symposium,  Vol.  4  (Oct.,  1933),  439-447;  Ezra  Pound, 
Polite  Essays  (London,  1937),  pp.  67-81;  Paul  Rosenfeld,  "Williams  the 
Stylist,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  19  (Feb.  n,  1939),  p.  16;  Ruth  Lechlitner,  "The 
Poetry  of  William  Carlos  Williams,"  Poetry,  Vol.  54  (Sept.,  1939),  pp.  326-335. 
For  Kenneth  Fearing:  see  Collected  Poems  (1940).  By  way  of  comment, 
Macha  Rosenthal,  "The  Meaning  of  Kenneth  Fearing's  Poetry,"  Poetry,  Vol. 
64  (July,  1944),  pp.  208-223;  C.  D.  Abbott,  "The  Politics  of  Mr.  Fearing," 
Univ.  of  Colo.  Stud.,  ser.  B,  Vol.  2  (Oct.,  1945),  pp.  382-387. 


CHAPTER    53 

TWENTIETH-CENTURY  FORMS  AND  PRESSURES 

A  great  mass  of  information  on  book  publishing  and  the  book  trade  is 
condensed  in  Hellmut  Lehmann-Haupt,  The  Book  in  America  (in  German, 
1937;  trans.,  1939).  Similar  material  may  be  extracted  from  the  files  of  the 
Publishers  Weekly.  For  data  on  instrumentalities  of  book  distribution,  consult 
the  annual  volumes  of  The  Literary  Marketplace  (1941-).  Some  special  aspects 
of  publishing  are  dealt  with  in  Orion  H.  Cheney,  Economic  Survey  of  the  Book 
Industry,  1930-1931  (1931);  James  T.  Farrell,  Some  Observations  on  the  Future 
of  Books  (1946);  John  K.  Hutchens,  "Publishing's  Lively  Child:  The  Twenty- 
five  Cent  Reprint,"  New  York  Times  Book  Review  (May  5,  1946),  pp.  3,  45; 
and  his  "For  Better  or  Worse:  The  Book  Clubs,"  New  York  Times  Book 
Review  (March  31,  1946),  p.  1. 

Though  Frank  L.  Mott's  A  History  of  American  Magazines,  3  Vols.  (1938) 
cakes  1885  as  a  terminal  date,  his  American  Journalism:  A  History  of  News- 
papers in  the  United  States  through  250  Years,  1690-1950  (rev.  edition,  1950) 
covers  most  of  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  as  does  also  Robert  W. 
Jones,  Journalism  in  the  United  States  (1947). 

Much  can  be  gathered  from  the  memoirs  of  publishers  and  editors.  For  the 
earlier  decades,  see  Henry  Holt,  Garrulities  of  an  Octogenarian  Editor  (1923); 
George  P.  Putnam,  Memories  of  a  Publisher,  1865-1915  (1915);  Walter  H. 
Page,  A  Publisher's  Confession  (1905);  William  H.  Ellsworth,  A  Golden  Age 
of  Authors  (Boston,  1919);  L.  Frank  Tooker,  The  Joys  and  Tribulations  of 
an  Editor  (1924);  S.  S.  McClure,  Autobiography  (1914);  Edward  W.  Bok, 
The  Americanization  of  Edward  Bok  (1920).  A  later  group  includes  Grant 
Overton,  Portrait  of  a  Publisher:  and  the  First  Hundred  Years  of  the  House  of 
Appleton  (1925);  George  H.  Doran,  Chronicles  of  Bar  abbas,  1884-1934  (1935); 
Frederick  A.  Stokes,  A  Publisher's  Random  Notes,  1880-1935  (1935);  George 
P.    Putnam,    Wide    Margins:    A    Publisher's   Autobiography    (1942);    Ferris 


no6  THE  TWENTIETH  CENTURY 

Greenslet,  Under  the  Bridge:  An  Autobiography  (Boston,  1943);  Roger 
Burlingame,  Of  Making  Many  Books  (1946),  and  Samuel  C.  Chew,  Frith 
Among  the  Leaves  (1950). 

On  bookselling  in  particular,  see  Dorothea  L.  Mann,  A  Century  of  Book- 
selling: The  Story  of  the  Old  Corner  Bookstore  (Boston,  1928);  Charles  E. 
Goodspeed,  Yankee  Bookseller  (Boston,  1937);  Laurence  J.  Gomme,  "The 
Little  Book-Shop  Around  the  Corner,"  Colophon,  n.s.,  Vol.  2  (1937),  pp. 
573-601. 

Popular  appeal  is  studied  in  Alice  P.  Hackett,  Fifty  Years  of  Best  Sellers, 
1895-1945  (1945);  Asa  D.  Dickinson,  The  Best  Books  of  the  Decade,  1926- 
1935  (1937);  Edward  A.  Weeks,  "The  Best  Sellers  Since  1875,"  Publishers 
Weekly,  Vol.  125  (1934),  pp.  1503-1506;  Margaret  C.  Banning,  "The  Problem 
of  Popularity,"  Sat.  Rev.  Lit.,  Vol.  14  (May  2,  1936),  pp.  3-4,  16-17;  Louis 
R.  Wilson,  The  Geography  of  Reading  (Chicago,  1938),  from  the  standpoint 
of  libraries,  and  James  D.  Hart,  The  Popular  Book  (1950). 

For  a  consideration  of  censorship,  see  Charles  R.  Gillett,  Banned  Books 
(1932);  Morris  L.  Ernst  and  William  Seagle,  To  the  Pure:  A  Study  of  Obscen- 
ity and  the  Censor  (1928).  Censorship  as  applied  to  the  movies  is  discussed  by 
Channing  Pollock,  "Swinging  the  Censor,"  Bull.  Authors  League  of  America 
(March,  1917). 

Problems  of  literary  adjustment  and  insurgency  have  been  studied  by  Max 
Eastman,  The  Literary  Mind:  Its  Place  in  an  Age  of  Science  (1931),  and 
Artists  in  Uniform:  A  Study  of  Literature  and  Bureaucratism  (1934).  See  also 
Joseph  Freeman,  An  American  Testament  (1936)  for  comment  from  the  left. 
A  social  study  is  Caroline  F.  Ware,  Greenwich  Village,  1920-1930:  A  Comment 
on  American  Civilization  in  the  Post-War  Years  (Boston,  1935).  A  period 
piece  is  Albert  Parry,  Garrets  and  Pretenders:  A  History  of  Bohemianism  in 
America  (1933).  A  pioneer  study  of  the  literary  artist  in  relation  to  society  is 
James  T.  Farrell,  The  League  of  Frightened  Philistines  (1945). 

Experimental  magazines  have  been  most  fully  treated  by  Frederick  J.  Hoff- 
man, Charles  Allen,  and  Carolyn  F.  Ulrich,  The  Little  Magazine:  A  History 
and  a  Bibliography  (Princeton,  1946).  See  also  Ezra  Pound,  "Small  Magazines," 
English  Journal,  Vol.  19  (1930),  pp.  689-704;  Margaret  Anderson,  My  Thirty 
Years'  War  (1930);  Malcolm  Cowley,  Exile's  Return  (1934). 

Representative  examples  of  the  work  of  journalistic  essavists  and  writers 
of  columns  are  Don  Marquis,  The  Old  Soak  (1921);  Hey  wood  Broun,  Seeing 
Things  at  Night  (1921  ),  theatrical  criticism,  and  Sitting  on  the  World  (1924); 
Alexander  Woolcott,  Shouts  and  Murmurs  (1922)  and  While  Rome  Burns 
(1934);  Ben  Hecht,  A  Thousand  and  One  Afternoons  in  Chicago  (1922)  and 
Tales  of  Chicago  Streets  (1924);  Robert  Benchley,  Of  All  Things  (1921),  The 
Treasurer's  Report  (1930),  and  Chips  fro?n  the  Old  Benchley  (1949),  a  selec- 
tion; Franklin  P.  Adams,  The  Conning  Tower  Book  (1926),  The  Second  Con- 
ning Tower  Book  (1927),  and  a  selection  of  his  light  verse,  The  Melancholy 
Lute  ( 1936). 

Two  discussions  of  the  vogue  of  biography  are  Howard  M.  Jones,  "Methods 
in  Contemporary  Biography,"  English  Journal,  Vol.  21  (Jan.,  Feb.,  1942),  pp. 
43-51,  1 13-122;  Claude  M.  Fuess,  "Debunkery  and  Biography,"  Atlantic 
Monthly,  Vol.  151  (March,  1933),  pp.  347-357. 


PART  IV:  BIBLIOGRAPHY  IIO? 

On  the  movies  and  radio  in  relation  to  the  public,  see  Margaret  F.  Thorp 
America  at  the  Movies  (New  Haven,  1939);  Lewis  Jacobs,  The  Rise  of  the 
American  Film:  A  Critical  History  (1939).  Some  useful  anthologies  include 
William  Kozlenko,  Contemporary  One-Act  Plays:  Radio  Plays,  Folk  Plays, 
Social  Plays  (1939);  The  Writer's  Radio  Theater,  1940-1940  (1941),  ed.' 
Norman  S.  Weiser. 

For  a  last  look  ahead  by  nine  advanced  writers,  see  John  Berryman  and 
others,  "The  State  of  American  Writing,  1948,"  Partisan  Rev.,  Vol.  ic  (Aug 
1948),  pp.  855-894.  6M 


■ 


Index 


Note:  For  references  to  writings  other  than  given  under  the  author 
entry,  see  title  entries  of  the  works  themselves.  Asterisks  indicate  principal 
references  or  subject. 


A  VAbri:  or,  The  Tent  Pitched,  223 

"Abbotsford,"  216 

Abe  Lincoln  in  Illinois,  940 

Abolition  of  Slavery,  as  a  subject  for 
literature,  426;  as  a  subject  for  painting, 
549;  the  argument  for,  463-464;  views 
of  Northerners  on:  Woolman,  125, 
127-128,  Penn,  127,  Sewall,  127,  Frank- 
lin, 127,  Barlow,  187,  Tyler,  200,  Mrs. 
Child,  237,  the  Mass.  Quart.  Review, 
269,  Whittier,  349,  354,  443-445,  Taylor, 
357,  Lowell,  337,  447-45 1,  457,  Emerson, 
401,  435-439,  Bryant,  428,  Cooper,  431, 
Bancroft,  432,  Longfellow,  439-440, 
Holmes,  445,  446,  Boker,  459,  Thoreau, 
460,  Garrison,  460,  Hildreth,  460,  Mrs. 
Stowe,  460-461,  463,  Sarah  J.  Hale,  461, 
Paulding,  461,  Bird,  462,  Lincoln,  464- 
465,  Whitman,  600;  views  of  Southern- 
ers on:  Washington,  177,  Jefferson,  184, 
Simms,  241,  463,  Poe,  462,  E.  W. 
Sidney  (Nathaniel  Tucker),  462-463, 
Fletcher,  463,  Grayson,  463,  E.  B. 
Bryan,  464,  J.  H.  Holcome,  464 

'Abolition  Riots,"  259n 

'Abraham  Lincoln"    (Bryant),  254,  428 

"Abraham  Lincoln"   (Emerson),  287 

"Abraham  Lincoln"    (Lowell),  452 

Abraham  Lincoln:  A  History,  636 

"Abraham  Lincoln  Walks  at  Midnight," 
842 

Absalom,  Absalom!,  884 

Abu  Hassan,  215 

Account  of  the  Province  of  Carolina,  An, 
28 

Across  Spoon  River,  748 

Across  the  Continent    (Bowles),  642 

Across  the  Continent  (McCloskey  and 
Byron),  799 

Active  Service,  758 

Actress  of  Padua,  The,  *47i,  472 

Adams,  Abigail  (Airs.  John),  high  calibre 
of  her  letters,  185-186;  observations 
from  her  travels,  185;  letters  to  John 
Adams,  to  John  Quincy  Adams,  185; 
to  Airs.  Cranch,  185-186 

Adams,  Franklin  P.,  980 

Adams,  Henry,  576,  665,  683,  his  Life  of 
George  Cabot  Lodge,  726-727;  letters 
to  Gaskell,  731-732;  779,  *782-789,  The 
Education  of  Henry  Adams,  782-783, 
788-789;  world  tour,  783;  "The  Rule  of 
Phase  Applied  to  History,"  783-784; 
education,  784;  edits  North  American 
Review,  784;  marriage,  784;  articles  and 


essays,  784-785;  Chapters  of  Erie  and 
Other  Essays,  785;  biography  of  Albert 
Gallatin,  785;  Democracy,  785;  Esther, 
785,  786;  History  of  the  United  States, 
786-787;  letter  to  Brooks  Adams,  787; 
attitude  toward  science,  787,  789;  in- 
terest in  France,  787-788;  Mont-Saint- 
Michel  and  Chartres,  788;  his  humor, 
789;  833,  903,  943 

Adams,  Herbert  Baxter,  778 

Adams,  John,  *  142-144,  qualities,  per- 
sonal, 142-143,  literary,  143,  144,  his 
Dissertation  on  the  Canon  and  the 
Feudal  Law,  143;  opposes  the  Stamp 
Act,  143;  Novafiglus  essays,  143-144; 
Defence  of  the  Constitutions  of  Gov- 
ernment  of  the  United  States,  144; 
letters  to  his  wife,  145;  efforts  for  edu- 
cation, 144;  152,  163,  166,  178,  185,  424 

Adams,  John  Quincy,   186 

Adams,  Leonie,  967 

Adams,  Samuel,  144 

Adding  Machine,  The,  962 

Addison,  Joseph,  99,  122,  161,  219 

"Address  at  Cooper  Institute,"  574 

"Address  before  the  Divinity  School  of 
Harvard  University,"  266,  278,  285 

Ade,  George,  his  Fables  in  Slang,  837; 
The  County  Chairman,  837;  The  Col- 
lege Widow,  837 

Adeler,  Max,  see  Clark,  Charles  H. 

Admetus  and  Other  Poems,  727 

Adrea,  824 

Adrienne  Toner,  819 

Adulateur,  The,  163 

Adventures  of  a  Young  Man,  882 

Adventures  of  Alonzo,  its  claim  as  first 
American  novel,  190 

Adventures  of  Captain  Bonneville,  The, 
217 

Adventures  of  Frangois,  The,  778 

Adventures  of  Huckleberry  Finn,  The, 
709,  *7i8 

Adventures  of  Robin  Day,  The,  239 

Adventures  of  Tom  Sawyer,  The,  626, 
700,  *7i7,  718 

Advice  to  a  Raven  in  Russia,  189 

"Advice  to  a  Young  Man  on  the  Choice 
of  a  Mistress,"  1  iq 

Advice  to  the  Privileged  Orders,  188 

"/Eneas  Africanus,"  656 

Aeneid,  translation  from,  by  Holmes, 
362 

"Aeon,"  571-572 

Afloat  and  Ashore,  230,  *23i 


1 100 


INDEX 


"After  All,  Not  to  Create  Only,"  see 
•Song  of  the  Exposition" 

"After  the  Burial,"  378 

Afternoon  Neighbors,  650-651 

Agassiz,  Louis,  his  The  Descent  of  Man, 
772;  787,  946 

Age  of  Innocence,  The,  817-818 

'Agency  of  Evil,  The,"  354 

"Ages,  The,"  250 

-Agnes,"  571 

Agrarian  manifesto,  914,  922 

Ah j  Wilderness,  934 

Aiken,  Conrad,  his  poetry,  Earth  Trium- 
phant, 867;  The  House  of  Dust,  867; 
Fn/ich:  The  Immortal  Liar,  867;  Se- 
lected Poems,  867;  prose,  867;  critical 
works,  Skepticisms,  867;  essay  on  Emily 
Dickinson,  867 

Aiken,  George  L.,  460,  dramatizes  Uncle 
Tonfs  Cabin,  502 

Air  Raid,  971 

Airs  from  Arcady  and  Elsewhere,  707 

"Al  Aaraaf,"  * 297-298,  299,  301,  395 

Al  Aaraaf,  Tamerlane  and  Minor  Poe?ns, 

29  3 

Al  Que  Quiere,  970 

Alabama,  823 

Alarm  to  the  Legislature  of  the  Province 
of  New  York,  An,  150 

Albert i,  210 

Alcott,  Amos  Bronson,  264,  266,  273-274, 
his  "Orphic  sayings,"  273;  "Fruitlands," 
273;  287,  566 

Alcott,  Louisa  May,  her  "Transcendental 
Wild  Oats,"  273;  582,  588,  591,  739 

Alcitin:  or  A  Dialogue  on  the  Rights  of 
Women,  *  193,  196 

Aldana,  Francisco  de,  337 

Aldrich,  Thomas  Bailey,  373,  497,  576, 
591,  593,  his  "Realism,"  622;  *624-626, 
as  critic,  624;  "The  Ballad  of  Babie 
Bell,"  624;  edits  Every  Saturday,  624, 
the  Atlantic,  625;  "Unguarded  Gates," 
625;  "Memory,"  625;  collected  works 
(1907),  625;  Friar  Jerome's  Beautiful 
Book,  625-626;  The  Legend  of  Ara- 
Cocli,  626;  Judith  and  Holof ernes,  626; 
Mercedes,  626;  Wyndham  Towers, 
626;  "Marjorie  Daw,"  626;  The  Story 
of  a  Bad  Boy,  626;  628,  668,  674,  721, 

7 .Hi  774,  797 
Alexander's  Bridge,  908 
Algerine  Captive:  or,  The  Life  and  Ad- 

ventures    of    Dr.     Updike    Underhill, 

The,  199 
Algic  Researches,  330 
Albania.  Fortress  of  the,  216 
Alhambra,  The,  *2i6,  566 
Alice  Adams,  839 
Alice  of  Monmouth,  627 
Alice  of  Old   Vine  en  lies,  739 
All  God's  Chillun  dot  Wings,  930,  931 
"All  I  lere,"  ^0-^71 
All  in  the  Day's  Work,  829 
All  Men  Are  Brothers,  a  translation,  840 
All  the  Sad  Young  Men,  8S8 


Allen,  James  Lane,  his  Flute  and  Violin, 
657;  A  Kentucky  Cardinal,  657;  The 
Choir  Invisible,  657;  The  Reign  of 
Law,  657 

Allied  Arts,  Colonial,  87-88,  89,  100;  534- 
566,  relation  of  to  literature,  534-535; 
early  painters,  West  and  Copley,  535; 
portraiture,  535-538,  543-545;  historical 
painting,  538;  pastel,  539,  545-546;  All- 
ston's  theory  of  art  and  criticism,  541- 
542;  Emerson's  art  criticisms,  542-543; 
the  miniature,  546;  the  "primitives," 
547;  other  media,  547;  genre  painting, 
544,  547-549;  the  Indian  and  Negro  as 
subjects,  549;  sport  and  fires,  549;  land- 
scape painting,  550-551;  the  panorama, 
551-552;  The  Home  Book  of  the  Pic- 
turesque, 552-553;  engraving,  early,  100, 
Currier  and  Ives,  553-554;  painting  and 
science,  554-555;  sculpture,  555-560, 
581-583,  Greenough's  functional  the- 
ory, 556-557,  Hawthorne's  interest  in, 
557-558i  559,  562,  the  "Rogers  Groups," 
560,  581-582;  architecture,  561-563,  583- 
587,  Emerson  on,  561,  Poe  on,  561-562, 
Longfellow  on,  562-563,  Lowell  on, 
563;  music,  587-588,  songs  and  ballads, 
563-566,  570-571,  587;  stimulating  fac- 
tors in  later  nineteenth  century  de- 
velopment, 576;  magazine  illustration, 
577;  the  expatriates,  578-579,  581;  the 
national  in  painting,  579-581;  increas- 
ing European  derivation,  683-684,  814 

Allston,  Washington,  212,  325,  382,  534, 
535,  his  paintings,  *539"54_3 ;  his  dra- 
matic and  historical  paintings,  540;  his 
insistence  upon  the  ideal  and  the  uni- 
versal in  art,  540-541;  Poems  (18 13, 
1850),  541;  Monaldi,  541;  "Composi- 
tion," 541-542;  influence,  542;  543, 
556 

Almanac  for  Moderns,  893 

Alnwick  Castle,  Poe's  criticism  of,  387; 
Lowell's  criticism  of,  410 

Alnwick  Castle  with  Other  Poems,  Bry- 
ant's criticism  of,  386 

Alsop,  George,  his  A  Character  of  the 
Province  of  Mary -land,  24-25 

Always  Young  and  Fair,  892 

"Amalfi,"  341 

Ambassadors,  The,  696 

America  in  Literature,  725 

America  Was  Promises,  972 

American,  The,  *6$2,  dramatic  version, 
695 

American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Letters, 
Howells  first  president  of,  674 

American  Anthology,  An,  628 

American  Chronicle,  769,  829 

American  Claimant,  The,  716 

"American  Flag,  The,"  261 

American  Historical  Association,  647, 
710,  founding  of,  778-779 

American  Humor,  903 

Ainerican  Language,  The,  854 

"American  Legend,  The,"  356 


INDEX 


American  Mind,  The,  902 

American  Notebooks,  315 

American  Philosophical  Society,  found- 
ing of,  89;  130,  191,  538,  544 

America?!  Prose  Masters,  815 

American  Republic,  The,  268 

American  Scene,  The,  698 

"American  Scholar,  The,"  284,  289,  *398- 
399,  400,  407 

"American  Soldier,  The,"  168 

American  Songbag,  The,  844 

America?!  Testament,  The,  956 

A?nerica?i  Tragedy,  An,  849,  850 

"American  Vandal  Abroad,  The,"  713 

American  Writers'  Congress,  956 

Americana',  or,  A  New  Tale  of  the  Genii, 
204,  547 

"Americanism  in  Literature,"  601 

Americans  i?i  Paris,  508-509 

America?is  Roused  in  a  Cure  for  the 
Spleen,  The,  164 

A?nerika-breve  {Letters  from  America), 
912 

Ames,  Nathaniel,  93-94 

Ames,  Winthrop,  832,  978-979 

Amherst  College,  729,  903 

Amo?ig  the  Isles  of  Shoals,  727 

Anatomy  of  Negation,  The,  741 

"Ancient  French  Romances,"  336 

"Ancient  Spanish  Ballads,"  338 

Anderson,  Hugh,  69 

Anderson,  Maxwell,  218,  418,  488,  *938- 
939,  his  verse  technique,  938;  his  What 
Price  Glory,  938;  Saturday's  Children, 
938;  Gods  of  the  Lightning,  938;  Wi?i- 
terset,  938;  High  Tor,  938;  Knicker- 
bocker Holiday,  938;  Key  Largo,  938; 
The  Eve  of  St.  Mark,  938;  Elizabeth 
the  Queen,  939;  Mary  of  Scotla?id,  939; 
Joan  of  Lorraine,  939;  Anne  of  the 
Thousand  Days,  939;  his  essays,  Off 
Broadway,  including  "The  Essence  of 
Tragedy,"  939 

Anderson,  Sherwood,  864,  *  87 1-87  3,  his 
Winesburg,  Ohio,  871;  his  perception 
of  human  behavior,  871;  The  Sher- 
wood Anderson  Reader,  872;  Windy 
McPherson's  Son,  872;  Dark  Laughter, 
872;  Poor  White,  872;  his  short  stories, 
The  Triumph  of  the  Egg,  872;  Horses 
and  Me??,  872;  Death  in  the  Woods, 
872;  A  Story  Teller's  Story,  873;  Tar; 
A  Midwest  Childhood,  873;  his  revolt 
against  industrialism,  873;  884,  958 

Andre,  201-202,  203 

"Andrew  Jackson,"  457 

Angel,  918 

Angel  of  Bethesda,  The,  10 1 

Angels  and  Earthly  Creatures,  894 

Anglicanism,  16,  26,  35,  36,  37,  38,  39,  56, 
74,  79,  85,  89,  90,  91,  98,  99,  101,  102, 
140,  347 

Anglin,  Margaret,  497 

Ani?nal  Ki??gdom,  The,  935-936 

Animula,  897 

A?ina  Christie,  930 


A?ine  Boleyn,  *488,  489 

An??e  of  the  Thousa?id  Days,  488,  939 

"Antigallican,  The,"  99 

Anti-Matr'miony ,  832 

"Antiquity  of  Freedom,  The,"  253 

Appeal  to  Caesar,  An,  766n 

Appreciation  of  Literature,  The,  902 

Archers:  or  The  Mountaineers  of  Swit- 
zerland, The,  201 

Architecture,  see  Allied  Arts 

Ardrey,  Robert,  his  Thunder  Rock,  962-, 
Jeb,  962 

Are?ia,  The,  804 

"Argonauta,"  168 

Aria  da  Capo,  895 

Aristocracy,  802 

Aristocracy  and  Justice,  896 

Aristotle,  38,  398,  406,  628 

Arizona,  823 

Arizo?ia  Nights,  892 

Armourer's  Escape:  or,  Three  Years  at 
Nootka  Sou?ad,  The,  206 

"Army  Hymn,  The,"  446 

Army  Life  in  a  Black  Regiment,  601 

Arnold,  Matthew,  290,  628,  677,  683,  717 

Arp,  Bill,  see  Smith,  Charles  H. 

Arrow  Maker,  The,  832 

Arrowsmith,  854,  855,  940 

"Art,"  280,  399,  542,  543 

"Art  and  Criticism,"  398 

Art  as  Experience,  949 

"Art  of  Fiction,  The,"  698 

Artemus  Ward:  His  Book,  70 5 

Arte?nus  Ward:  His  Travels,  705 

"Artemus  Ward  among  the  Mormons," 
70s 

Arthur  Gordon  Pym,  294,  303,  *304,  305 

Arthur  Mervyn,  194-195,  mutual  influ- 
ence of  Godwin's  Mandeville  and,  19s 

Articles  of  Belief  and  Acts  of  Religion, 

1  \7 

Artists  in  Unifonn,  955-956 

Arts,  see  Allied  Arts 

Arundel,  890 

As  a  Man  Thinks,  823 

As  Husba??ds  Go,  927 

"As  I  Ebb'd  with  the  Ocean  of  Life,"  612 

Ash,  Thomas,  his  Carolina:  or  a  Descrip- 
tion of  the  Present  State  of  that  Coun- 
try, 28 

Ash-Wed?iesday,  897 

"Aspern  Papers,  The,"  693 

Astoria,  *2i7,  304,  427 

"At  Melville's  Tomb,"  969 

"At  Nijnii-Novgorod,"  625 

"At  St.  Judas's,"  749 

"At  Sundown,"  353 

At  the  Birth  of  an  Age,  878 

"At  the  Burns  Centennial,"  381 

Atlantis,  359 

Attack  on  Leviathan,  924 

Attempt  at  Interpretation,  An,  687 

Audubon,  John  James,  554-555 

Auerbach,  Berthold,  640 

Augur,  Hezekiah,  556 

Austen,  Jane,  197,  403,  676,  699,  816,  917 


II  12 


INDEX 


Austin,   Alary,    her    The   Arrow   Maker, 

832 
" Author,  The,"  i66n 
"Author  of  Beltraffio,  The,"  693 

Authorship,  221 

Autobiography  (Samuel  T.  Clemens),  709 

Autobiography  (Benjamin  Franklin),  117, 
184 

Autobiography    (Mrs.  Mowatt),  507,  508 

Autobiography  (William  Allen  White), 
829 

Autobiography  of  a  Philosopher,  944 

Autobiography  of  a  Pocket-Handker- 
chief, 234 

"Autobiography  of  a  Quack,  The,"  777 

Autobiography  of  Alice  B.  Toklas,  869 

Autobiography  of  an  Ex-Colored  Man, 
The,  919 

Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table,  The, 
361,  early  essays  with  same  name,  362; 
363,  *  364-367,  the  poet's  function,  364- 
365;  the  fluid  nature  of  the  essay,  365- 
366;  373 

Autumn,  271 

"Autumn  Rivulets,"  618-619 

"Autumn  Woods,"  250 

"Avis,"  365 

Avon's  Harvest,  821 

Awake  and  Smg,  961 

Awakening,  The,  654 

"Awful  Fate  of  Brer  Wolf,  The,  656 

Awkward  Age,  The,  696 

Aylmere,  see  Jack  Cade 


Babbitt,  118,  854-855,  942 

Babbitt,  Irving,  *895,  his  idealistic  pro- 
test, 895;  Literature  and  the  American 
College,  895;  The  New  Laokoon,  895; 
Rousseau  and  Romanticism,  895;  his 
limitations  as  a  critic,  895;  900,  955 

"Babes  in  the  Wood,  The,"  704 

"Bacchus,"  284 

Backlog  Studies,  706 

"Backward   Glance  o'er  Travel'd  Roads, 

\,"  620 

Backwoodsman,  The,  220 

Bacon,  Francis,  5,  6,  66,  93,  399,  400,  407, 
719,  895 

Bacon,  Nathaniel,  poetic  epitaph  on,  54; 
rebellion  of,  ^5,  67,  242 

Bailey,  James  M.,  702 

Bailey,  John  J.,  his  Waldimar,  483 

Baker,  Benjamin  F.,  his  A  Glance  at  New 
York,  504;  511 

Baker,  Ray  Stannard,  his  American 
Chronicle:  The  Autobiography  of  Ray 
Stannard  Baker,  769;  '8:8-829,  reports 
on  coal  strikes,  8:8;  biography  of 
Woodrow  Wilson,  828;  Native  Amer- 
ican, 829 

Balderston,  John,  his  Berkeley  Square, 
697 

Ball,    I  homas,  5^9 

"Ballad  of  Babie  Hell,  The,"  624 

"Ballad  of  Lager  Bier,"  627 


"Ballad  of  the  Goodly  Fere,"  860 

Ballad  of  William  Sycamore,  891 

"Ballads,  The,"  413 

Ballads  and  Other  Poems,  326,  389 

Balzac,  Honore  de,  472,  589^  608,  640, 
670,  671,  690,  691,  699 

Bancroft,  George,  258,  309,  relation  to 
politics,  432,  437,  464;  519,  *52o-525, 
birth,  520;  study  in  Europe,  520;  arti- 
cles on  German  literature,  520;  verse, 
520;  his  democracy,  "The  Office  of  the 
People  in  Art,  Government  and  Re- 
ligion," 520;  "Decline  of  the  Roman 
People,"  520-521;  History  of  the  United 
States,  521;  Minister  to  Great  Britain, 
521-524;  recognized  in  France,  Eng- 
land, 521;  Literary  and  Historical  Mis- 
cellanies, 524;  The  Necessity,  the 
Reality,  and  the  Promise  of  the  Human 
Race,  524;  writes  President  Johnson's 
message  to  Congress,  425;  further  dip- 
lomatic service,  528;  History  of  the 
Formation  of  the  Federal  Constitution, 
525;  death,  525;  review  of  Prescott's 
History  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  526; 
527,  530,  532,  533,  534,  57^,  5Qin,  785 

Bangs,  John  Kendrick,  707,  association 
with  periodicals,  708,  entertainer,  708; 
A  Houseboat  on  the  Styx,  708 

Banjo,  920 

Banker's  Daughter,  The,  797n,  803 

Bankrupt,  The,  494 

Bannister,  Nathaniel  H.,  his  Putnam:  The 
Iron  Son  of  '76,  500-501,  The  Maine 
Question,  501 

"Bar  Sinister,  The,"  761 

Barbara  Frietchie   (Fitch),  799 

"Barbara     Frietchie"     (Whittier),     *349, 

445 

Barclay,  Robert,  139 

"Bardic  Symbols,"  see  "As  I  Ebb'd  with 
the  Ocean  of  Life"    ' 

Barker,  James  Nelson,  * 204-207,  birth, 
204;  military  and  civic  duties,  204;  his 
Tears  and  Smiles,  204-205;  The  Em- 
bargo, 205;  The  Indian  Princess,  205; 
Marmion,  205-206;  The  Armourer's  Es- 
cape, 206;  How  To  Try  a  Lover,  207; 
Superstition,  207;  death,  207;  210,  332, 
498,  500,  511 

Barlow,  Joel,  *  187-189,  epic  poet,  187; 
birth,  187;  education,  187;  his  The  Vis- 
ion of  Columbus,  187;  The  Columbiad, 
187;  stay  in  France,  188;  his  democratic 
principles,  Advice  to  the  Privileged 
Orders,  188;  Letter  to  the  National 
Convention  of  France,  188;  relation  to 
the  French  Revolution,  188;  Envoy  of 
France  to  Savoy,  188;  Letter  Addressed 
to  the  People  of  Piedmont,  188;  Hasty 
Pudding,  188;  Prospectus  of  a  National 
Institution,  189;  importance  of  his 
Fourth  of  July  Oration,  189;  Envoy  to 
Napoleon,  189;  death,  189;  Advice  to  a 
Raven  in  Russia,  189;  one  of  the  Con- 
necticut Wits,   189;  537,  546,  548 


INDEX 


1113 


Barnard  College,  724,  967 

Barnes,  Charlotte,  241 

Barnum,  P.  T.,  774 

"Baron  Metzengerstein,"  292,  293,  302 

"Baron  of  St.  Castine,  The,"  337 

Barr,  Robert,  759 

Barren  Ground,  916 

Barrett,  Lawrence,  491,  494,  79s: 

Barry,  Philip,  his  You  and  1,  93$;  The 
Youngest,  935;  In  a  Garden,  935;  White 
Wings,  935;  John,  935;  Paris  Bound, 
935;  Holiday,  935;  Hotel  Universe, 
935;  Tomorrow  and  Tomorrow,  935- 
936;  The  Annual  Kingdom,  935-936; 
The  Joyous  Season,  936;  Bright  Star, 
936;  Here  Come  the  Clowns,  936;  The 
Philadelphia  Story,  936;  Liberty  Jones, 
936;  Without  Love,  936 

Bartol,  C.  A. 

Bartoli,  F.,  549 

Bartram,  John,  his  Observations  on  the 
Inhabitants,  Climate,  Soil,  Rivers,  Pro- 
ductions,   Animals,   etc.,    134;    Journal, 

134 

i  Bartram,  William,  romantic  portrayal  of 
America,  *  134-135;  his  Travels  through 
North  and  South  Carolina,  Georgia, 
East  and  West  Florida,  135;  influence 
on  European  writers,  135;  400 
Bastard,  The,  885 
Bateman,  A4rs.  Sidney  F.,  her  Self,  508; 

The  Golden  Calf,  508^ 
"Battle  Cry  of  Freedom,  The,"  571 
Battle  Hymn  of  the  Republic,  The,"  571 
Battle  of  Brooklyn,  The,  164 
Battle  of  Bunkers  Hill,  The,  164 
"Battle  of  Lovell's  Pond,  The,"  323 
Battle  of  Niagara,  220 
Battle  of  the  Kegs,  The,  156 
"Battlefield,  The,"  *253,  255,  256 
Battle-Pieces  and  Aspects  of  the  War,  571 
"Batuschka,"  625 
Baudelaire,    Charles,    296,    306,    344,    397, 

74 i'i  857 

"Bay  Fight,  The,"  571 

"Bay  Psalm  Book,  The,"  60 

"Bear,  The,"  905 

Beard,   Charles   S.,    his   interpretation    of 
history,  952;  his  Economic  Origins  of 
Jeffersonian  Democracy,  952;  his  influ- 
ence, 952 
'Beatrice,"  339 

Beau  Brummell,  824 

Beauchampe:  or,  The  Kentucky  Tragedy, 

*24I,    485 

"Beaumont  and  Fletcher,"  421 

"Beauties  of  Santa  Cruz,  The,"  120 

Beautiful  and  Da?imed,  The,  888 

"Beauty,"  279,  289,  398 

"Bedouin  Love  Song,"  356 

Beebe,  William,  892-893,  his  Jungle  Peace, 

893;  Beneath  Tropic  Seas,  893 
Beecher,  Henry  Ward,  his  Norwood:  or, 

Village  Life  in  New  England,  641 
Before  Adam,  847 
before  the  Curfew,  364 


Beggar  on  Horseback,  939 

Beginnings  of  a  Nation,  The,  647 

Behold  the  Bridegroom,  856 

Behrman,  S.  N.,  939 

Being  a  Boy,  706 

Belasco,  David,  his  The  Heart  of  Mary- 
land, 799;  804,  Madame  Butterfly,  808, 
824;  The  Girl  of  the  Golden  West, 
808-809;  The  Darling  of  the  Gods,  824; 
Adrea,  824 

"Beleaguered  City,  The,"  296 

Belfrey  of  Bruges,  The,  326 

Bell  for  Adano,  A,  982 

Bellamy,  Edward,  576-590,  765,  *j6y-y6g, 
his  Looking  Backward,  2000-1881,  767; 
Dr.  Heidenhoffs  Process,  768;  Miss 
Ludington's  Sister,  768;  letter  to  How- 
ells,  768;  Equality,  y 68;  770,  954 

Belle  Lamar,  513-514 

Belles-Lettres  Ciub,  193 

"Bells  of  San  Bias,  The,"  338 

"Ben  Jonson  Entertains  a  Man  from 
Stratford,"  821 

Benbridge,  Henry,  546 

Beneath  Tropic  Seas,  893 

Benet,  Stephen  Vincent,  573,  *89i,  his 
Ballad  of  William  Sycamore,  891;  A 
Book  of  Americans,  891;  John  Brown's 
Body,  891;  Western  Star,  891;  The 
Devil  and  Daniel  Webster,  891 

Benet,  William  Rose,  894 

Ben-Hur:  A  Tale  of  the  Christ,  333,  590, 
*79i,  translated,  792;  dramatized,  792 

Bennington  College,  967 

"Benito  Cereno,"  246 

Bent  Twig,  The,  911 

"Berenice,"  302 

Bergson,  Henri,  866,  943 

Berkeley,  Helen,  see  Mowatt,  Anna  Cora 
Ogden 

Berkeley  Square,  697 

Bernhardt,  Sarah,  796 

Bertram  Cope's  Year,  749 

Beschryvinge  van  Nieuw  Nederlant,   16 

"Best  Years,  The,"  911 

Betrothal,  The,  488-489 

"Betsey  and  I  Are  Out,"  637 

Beulah,  243 

Beverly,  Robert,  67-68,  his  The  History 
and  Present  State  of  Virginia,  67;  68n 

Beyond  Life,  889 

Beyond  the  Garden  Gate,  913 

Beyond  the  Gates,  715 

Beyond  the  Horizon,  929-930 

Bianca  Visconti,  483 

"Bible  as  Poetry,  The,"  621 

Bierce,  Ambrose  Gwinett,  645,  660,  759, 
*76o,  The  Devil's  Dictionary,  760; 
Tales  of  Soldiers  and  Civilians,  later 
In  the  Midst  of  Life,  760;  "An  Occur- 
rence at  Owl  Creek  Bridge,"  760;  Can 
Such  Things  Be?  760;  801,  869 

Big  Town,  The,  880 

Biglow  Papers  (First  Series),  375,  449, 
457;  (Second  Series)  376,  ^77,  4^,  4^7, 
636;  447 


iii4 


INDEX 


Billings,  Josh,  see  Shaw,  Henry  W. 

Billy  Bud  J,  Foretopman,  247 

Bingham,  George  C,  548-549 

Biography,  939 

Birch,  "I  nomas,  550 

'Birches,"  904 

Bird,  Robert  Montgomery,  211,  *237-239; 
his  realism,  237-238;  his  Calavar,  238; 
The  Infidel,  238;  The  Hawks  of  Hawk- 
Hollow,  238;  Sheppard  Lee,  238;  Nick 
of  the  Woods,  238;  Peter  Pilgrim,  238- 
239;  The  Adventures  of  Robin  Day, 
239;  Ipsico  Poe,  239;  462,  464,  469,  472, 
*473~482,  birth,  473;  education,  473; 
abandons  medicine,  474;  his  'Twas  All 
for  the  Best,  474;  The  Cowled  Lover, 
474;  Caridorf,  474;  The  City  Looking 
Glass,  474;  News  of  the  Night,  474; 
Pelopidas,  475;  The  Gladiator,  475-477; 
elected  to  Dramatic  Authors'  Society 
of  London,  477;  Oralloossa,  477-478; 
The  Broker  of  Bogota,  478-480;  re- 
writes Stone's  Metamora,  480;  mistreat- 
ment by  Forrest,  480-481;  edits  North 
American,  481;  interest  in  politics  and 
farming,  481;  death,  481;. 482,  499,  511, 
512,  515 

"Birdofredom  Sawin',"  449 

''Birds  of  Passage,"  618 

Birth,  870 

Birth  of  Galahad,  The,  723 

"Birthday  of  Daniel  Webster,  January 
18,  1856,"  446 

"Birthmark,  The,"  311,  319,  375 

Biornson,  Biornstjerne,  670,  676 

Black  Boy,  920 

"Black  Cat,  The,"  302,  306 

Black  Crook,  The,  790 

Black  Pit,  962 

"Black  Regiment,  The,"  458 

Black  Riders,  The,  756 

Black  Rock,  The,  863 

"Black  Steed,  The,"  236 

Blackmore,  Richard,  93 

Blameless  Prince,  The,  627 

Blazed  Trail,  The,  892 

Blithedale  Romance,  263,  269,  * 3 1 5 ,  319, 

434 

Blix,  751,  753 

Blockade,  The,  163 

Blockheads    or    the    Affrighted    Officers, 

The,   [61 
"Blood  .Money,"  603 
Bloody  Chasm,  The,  651 
Bloody   Tenent  yet  More  Bloody,  The, 

4- 
Blooms  of  the  Berry,  723 
Blond  v  Tenent,  of  Persecution  for  Cause 

of  Conscience,  'The,  42,  46 
"Blue  I  Intel,  The,"  759 
"Blue-Stocking,  A,"  773 
Boat   of  Longing.   The,  see   Laen^selens 

Baat 
Bodenstedt,  Friedrich,  624 
Body   of  Liberties,  40 
Body  of  This  Death,  967 


Bogan,  Louise,  her  Body  of  This  Death, 
and  other  lyrics,  967 

Boker,  George  Henry,  258,  356,  380,  re- 
lation to  politics,  *45 7-459,  his  "Andrew 
Jackson,"  457;  "Ode  to  America,"  457- 
458;  "Dirge  for  a  Soldier,"  458;  "The 
Black  Regiment,"  459;  founder  and 
president  of  Union  League  Club,  459; 
"The  Will  of  the  People,"  459;  Phi 
Beta  Kappa  Poem,  "Our  Heroic 
Themes,"  459;  Minister  to  Turkey, 
Russia,  459;  465,  *487~497,  his  phi- 
losophy of  composition,  487;  birth,  487; 
education,  487-488;  marriage,  488;  his 
The  Lesson  of  Life,  488;  first  play, 
Calynos,  488;  Anne  Boleyn,  488;  The 
Betrothal,  488-489;  The  World  a  Mask, 
489;  The  Widow's  Marriage,  489;  letter 
to  Stoddard,  489;  Leonor  de  Guzman, 
489-490;  Franc  esc  a  da  Rimini,  490-494; 
The  Bankrupt,  494;  Konigsmark,  494; 
Nydia,^  494;  Glaucus,  494-495;  death, 
495;  his  sonnets  and  other  lyrics,  495- 
496;  importance  in  our  literature  not 
fully  recognized,  496-497;  509,  511,  512, 

515,  571,  574 
Bolts  of  Melody,  733 
Bonaventure,  654 
Bonfire,  91 1-9 12 
Bonifacius:   An   Essay    upon    the    Good, 

117 

Bonvard,  John,  551-552 

Book  about  Myself,  A,  849 

Book  of  A?nerican  Negro  Poetry,  The, 
919-920 

Book  of  Americans,  A,  891 

Book  of  Hours,  A,  893 

Book  of  Roses,  The,  781 

"Booker  T.  VVashington  Trilogy,  The," 
842 

"Books,"  287,  400 

Books  and  Men,  816 

Books  of  Remarkable  Providences,  47-48 

Booth,  Edwin,  497,  510 

Booth,  Junius  Brutus,  468,  482 

Border  Beagles,  240-241 

"Border  Romances,"  240-241 

Born  Yesterday,  941 

Boss,  The,  927 

"Boston  Ballad,  A,"  606 

"Boston  Common,"  370 

"Boston  Hymn,"  439 

Boston  University,  806 

Bostonians,  The,  692 

Bottger,  Karl,  338 

Boucher,  Jonathan,  his  Reminiscences  of 
an  American  Loyalist,  140;  A  View  of 
the  Causes  and  Consequences  of  the 
American  Revolution,  140 

Boucicault,  Aubrey,  491 

Boucicault,  Dion,  510,  512-516,  aids  in 
passing  first  copyright  law,  512;  adapta- 
tions, 512-513,  514;  his  Louis  XI,  512; 
The  Poor  of  New  York,  513;  The  Oc- 
toroon, 513;  Belle  Lamar,  513-514;  The 
Colleen  Bawu,  514;  The  O'Dowd,  514; 


INDEX 


i  ii 


The  Shaughraun,  514-515;  death,  515; 
invention  of  the  traveling  company, 
515-516 
Bourne,  Randolph  Sillman,  833-834,  his 
Youth  and  Life,  833;  Untimely  Papers, 
833;  The  History  of  a  Literary  Radical, 
833;  "The  War  and  the  Intellectuals," 
834 
Bowdoin  College,  308,  309,  323,  324,  345, 

434 
Bowles,  Samuel,  his  Our  New  West,  642; 
Across  the  Continent,  642;   The  Swit- 
zerland of  America,  642;  730 
Bowles,  Samuel,  2nd,  977 
Boyd,  James,  890 

Boyeson,  Hjalmar  Hjorth,  769,  774 
"Boys,  The,"  370 
Boy's  King  Arthur,  The,  635 
Boy's  Town,  A,  675 
Boy's  Will,  A,  328,  344,  *904 
Bracebridge  Hall,  215 
Brackenridge,    Hugh    Henry,     his     The 
Battle  of  Bunkers  Hill,  164;  The  Death 
of  General  Montgomery,  164;  qualities 
of  the  novel  evident  in  his  work,  164; 
collaborates    on    Father    Bombo's    Pil- 
grimage,   165;    "The   Rising    Glory    of 
America,"   165;  Modern  Chivalry,   191 ; 
548 
Bradford,  Andrew,  97 
Bradford,    Gamaliel,    154,    681,    * 902-903, 
his    "psychography,"    Damaged    Souls, 
902-903;  952 
Bradford,  Roark,  919 
Bradford,  William,  his   "History  of  the 
Plymouth    Plantation,"    *72~73;    74,   92, 
*43,  33i,  351 
Bradstreet,  Anne,  *62-6$,  her  The  Tenth 
Muse  Lately  Sprung  up  in  America,  63; 
Several  Poems  .  ..By  a  Gentlewoman  in 
New-England,    63;     "Contemplations," 
64;  Meditations,  65;  361 
"Brahma,"  281 

Braithwaite,  William  Stanley,  919 
Brass  Ankle,  The,  918 
Brave  Men,  982 
Bravo,  The,  232,  430 
Bread  and  Cheese  Club,  258 
Br e ad-Winners:    A    Social    Study,    The, 

682,  *764 
Breakers  arid  Granite,  863 
Bricks  without  Straw,  765-766 
Bridaine,  Jacques,  337 
"Bridal  of  Pennacook,  The,"  351 
"Bride    Comes    to    Yellow    Sky,    The," 

759 
Bride  of  Genoa,  The,  485,  487 
Bridge,  The,  861,  968 
Bridge  Builder,  The,  830 
Bridge  of  San  Luis  Rey,  936-937 
Brief  History  of  the  War  With  the  In- 
dians in  New  England,  75 
Briefe    Relation    of    the     Voyage    unto 

Maryland,  A,  23 
Bright  Star,  936 
Brimming  Cup,  They  on 


Brisbane,  Albert,  266,  268 

"British  Prison  Ship,  The,"  166 

"'Broadway  Pageant,  A,"  599 

"Broken  Tower,  The,"  968,  969n 

Broker    of   Bogota,    The,    *478-48o,    481, 

487 
Bromfleld,  Louis,  839-840,  his  The  Green 
Bay    Tree,    840;    Early    Autumn,    840; 
The     Strange     Case     of    Miss     Annie 
Spragg,    840;    The    Rains    Came,    840; 
Nights  in  Bombay,  840 
Brook  Farm  Institute  of  Agriculture  and 
Education,  263,  *z65,  273,  310,  315,  434, 
769 
Brooks,  Van  Wyck,  681,  900,  903 
Brother  Jonathan,  221 
Brougham,  John,  511 

Brown,  Alice,  her  Children  of  Earth,  832 
Brown,      Charles      Brockden,      *  193-197, 
birth,  193;  education,  193;  joins  Belles- 
Lettres  Club,  193;  Friendly  Club,   193; 
his  "The  Rhapsodist,"   193;  Alcuin:  or 
A  Dialogue  on  the  Rights  of  Women, 
193;    Wieland,    194;    Carwin   the   Bilo- 
quist,    194;    Arthur    Mervyn,     194-195; 
Ormond,  195;  Edgar  Huntly,  195,  196; 
Clara  Howard,   195;  Jane  Talbot,   195; 
Thessalonica,    195-196;    Sketches    of    a 
History  of  Car  sol,  196,  Sketches  of  the 
Carrils   and   Ormes,    196;   Memoirs    of 
Stephen  Calvert,  196;  his  literary  quali- 
ties, 196;  defects,  196-197;  his  influence 
and   position,    197;   edits   The   Literary 
Magazine  and  American  Register,   197, 
The    American    Register,    197;    death^ 
197;  200,  233,  274,  527,  53Q 
Brown,  David  Paul,  his  Sertorius:  or,  The 
Roman   Patriot,   482;    The  Prophet   of 
St.  Paul's,  482 
Brown,  Henry  Kirke,  559 
Brown,  Thomas,  56 
Brown,  William  Hill,  190 
Brown  University,  founding  of,  qi 
Brownell,  Henry  Howard,  his  Lyrics  of 
a  Day,  571;   War-lyrics,  571;  "General 
Orders,"    571;    "The    Bay  Fight,"    571; 
"Aeon,"  571-572 
Brownell,  William  Crary,  379,  625,  *8i4- 
815,  his  criticisms:   French  Traits,  815, 
French  Art,  815,  Victorian  Prose  Mas- 
ters,   815;    his    principles    of    criticism; 
Criticism,     815,    Standards,    815,     The 
Genius  of  Style,  815,  Democratic  Dis- 
tinction in  America,  815 
Browning,    Elizabeth    Barrett,    333,    375, 

392,  633 
Browning,  Robert,  345,  408,  442,  444, 
559,  596,  630,  631,  633,  652,  692,  699, 
726,  777 
Brownson,  Orestes,  262n,  affirms  native 
origin  of  American  Transcendentalism, 
263;  264,  *  266-268,  edits  Boston  Quar- 
terly, 266;  his  "The  Laboring  Classes," 
266;  defends  Transcendentalists,  266; 
"Discourse  on  the  Transient  and  Per- 
manent   in    Christianity"     266;    diver- 


1 1 16 


INDEX 


Brownson,  Orestes  {cont'd) 
gence  from  Transcendentalists,  266-268; 
appreciation  of  Emerson,  266-268;  The 
American  Republic,  268 

Brut  us:   or,   The  Fall   of  Tarquin,   *2o8- 
209,  471,  472,  483 

Bryan,  E.  B.,  his  The  Rightful  Remedy, 
464 

"Bryan,  Bryan,  Bryan,  Bryan,"  842 

Bryant,  William  Cullen,  165,  167,  233, 
* 248-260,  birth,  248;  his  The  Embargo, 
248;  education  and  reading,  248-249; 
"Thanatopsis,"  249;  "Inscription  for 
the  Entrance  to  a  Wood,'1  249;  "To  a 
Waterfowl,"  250;  marriage,  250;  "Oh, 
Fairest  of  the  Rural  Maids,"  250;  Phi 
Beta  Kappa  Poem,  "The  Ages,"  250; 
Poems  (182 1 ),  250;  "Hymn  to  Death," 
250;  edits  New  York  Review,  251; 
"The  Death  of  the  Flowers,"  251;  "The 
Firmament,"  251;  lectures,  251;  "The 
Two  Graves,"  251;  edits  New  York 
Evening  Post,  251;  Poems  (1831),  251; 
The  Past,  252;  travels  west,  252;  "The 
Prairies,"  252;  travels  abroad,  253;  Let- 
ters of  a  Traveller,  253;  "The  Battle- 
field," 253;  "The  Antiquity  of  Free- 
dom," 253;  Poems  (1842),  253;  Poems 
(1846),  253;  "Oh,  Mother  of  a  Mighty 
Race,"  253;  "The  Conquerors  Grave," 
253;  "Robert  of  Lincoln,"  253;  "Italy," 
253-254;  patriotic  poems,  "Not  Yet," 
254,  "Our  Country's  Call,"  254;  "Sella," 
254;  "The  Little  People  of  the  Snow," 
254;  Thirty  Poems  (1864),  254,  255; 
"The  Poet,"  254;  "Abraham  Lincoln," 
254;  "The  Flood  of  Years,"  254;  trans- 
lations. The  Iliad,  25?,  Odyssey,  255; 
his  themes,  Nature,  Death,  the  Past, 
Freedom,  256;  his  prose,  256;  "Lectures 
on  Poetry,"  256-257;  "Poets  and  poetry 
of  the  English  Language,"  introducing 
Library  of  Poetry  and  Song,  258,  386- 
387;  his  influence,  258;  public  addresses, 
258-250,  for  freedom  of  trade,  258,  "On 
the  Electric  Telegraph,"  258-259; 
death,  259;  editorials  in  the  Post,  259; 
edits  Picturesque  America,  259;  his 
contribution,  259-260;  261,  322,  323, 
356,  358,  359,  361,  his  critical  works, 
585-387,  on  American  verse,  385;  his 
discrimination  and  skill,  386;  on  Hal- 
leck,  }K6,  on  Cooper,  386;  on  Irving, 
386,  on  the  English  poets,  386-387;  the 
essence  of  poetry,  586-387;  388,  403,  409, 
relation  to  politics,  427-428,  464;  497, 
537,  551,  S5*i  ?73i  S74*  ^"9'-  604,  624 
Bryn  Mawr  College.  896,  966 
"Buccaneer,  The,"  261 
Buck,  Pearl,  her  The  Good  Earth,  840; 
Sous,  840;  A  House  Divided,  840; 
Fighting  Angel,  840;  The  Exile,  840; 
All  Men  Are  Brothers,  840 
Bucke,  Richard  M..  biography  of  Whit- 

man,  614;  617 
Builders,  The,  916 


Building  of  the  City  Beautiful,  The, 
631 

"Building  of  the  Ship,  The,"  328,  338, 
*  440-44  2,  566 

Bulwark,  The,  849-850 

Bulwer,  Edward,  388,  403,  495 

Bunce,  Oliver  Bell,  259,  his  Love  in  '76, 
501;  Marco  Bozzaris,  501 

Bunner,  Henry  Cuyler,  *  707-708,  his 
Airs  from  Arcady  and  Elsewhere,  707; 
Row  en,  707;  Short  Sixes,  707;  Made  in 
France,  707;  722 

Bunner  Sisters,  818 

Bunyan,  John,  46 

Burdette,  Robert  J.,  702 

Burgess,  Gelett,  "Purple  Cow,"  722 

Burgoyne,  General,  162,  his  The  Block- 
ade, 163 

Burke,  Charles,  510 

Burke,  Edmund,  147,  152,  188 

Burlington  Hawkeye  Man,  The,  see  Bur- 
dette, Robert,  J. 

Burnaby,  Andrew,  86,  89 

Burnett,  Frances  Hodgson,  591,  her  Es- 
meralda,  807;  Little  Lord  Fauntleroy, 
807 

Burns,  Robert,  286,  347,  399,  408 

"Burns"   (Halleck),  260,  261 

"Burns"   (Whittier),  353 

Burnt  Norton,  898,  899 

Burroughs,  John,  his  Notes  on  Walt 
Whitman  as  Poet  and  Person,  610-61 1; 
Birds  and  Poets,  771;  Locusts  and  Wild 
Honey,  771;  Whitman:  A  Study,  772; 
Literary   Values,  772;  892 

Burton:  or,  The  Sieges,  242 

Bury  the  Dead,  962 

Bushman,  Francis  X.,  792 

Butler,  Samuel,  56,  93,  96,  159,  160 

"By  Blue  Ontario's  Shore,"  618 

"By  the  Roadside,"  618 

"By  the  Waters  of  Babylon,"  728 

Byles,  Mather,  59,  96 

Byrd,  William,  32-34,  observations  on 
colonial  life  in  Virginia,  32,  in  North 
Carolina,  32-33;  his  Progress  to  the 
Mines,  32;  A  Journey  to  the  Land  of 
Eden,  32;  History  of  the  Dividing 
Line,  32-34;  55,  68,  89 

Byron,  George  Gordon,  Lord,  influence 
apparent,  132,  221,  260,  348,  359,  363, 
417,  472,  628,  629,  631,  780 

Byron,  Oliver  D.,  his  Across  the  Conti- 
nent, 799 


Cabala,  The,  936 

Cabbages  and  Kings,  837 

Cabell,  James  Branch,  854,  his  critical 
works,  Beyond  Life,  889,  Straws  and 
Prayer-Books,  889;  his  theory  of  fic- 
tion, practiced  in  Jurgen,  889 

Cabin  and  Parlor,  502 

Cable,  George  Washington,  575,  591,  652, 
*653-654,  his  Old  Creole  Days,  653; 
newspaper    work,    653;    The    Grandis- 


INDEX 


1117 


simes,    653;    Madame    Delphine,    653; 

Strange  True  Stories  of  Louisiana,  6^4; 
ilPere  Raphael,"  654;  Dr.  Sevier,  654; 
Bonaventure,  654;  T/je  S/7e?2£  South, 
654;    Tfo   Negro    Question,   654;    686, 

702>  764 

Cabot,  J.  Eliot,  his  "Hindoo  Literature, 
269 

Cadenabbia,"  341 

Cain,  726 

Cams  Marius,  *47i,  472,  486 

"Calamus,"  616,  618 

Calavar:  or,  The  Knight  of  the  Conquest, 
238 

Calaynos,  488,  489 

Caldwell,  Erskine,  his  The  Bastard,  88$; 
Poor  Fool,  885;  Tobacco  Road,  885- 
886;  God's  Little  Acre,  886;  journey- 
man, 886;  Kneel  to  the  Rising  Sun,  886; 
920,  958,  959 

Caliban,  by  the  Yellow  Sands,  832-833 

California,  University  of,  724,  750 

California . .  .A  Study  of  American  Char- 
acter, 945 

California  and  Oregon  Trail,  The,  *78o, 
782 

California  Ballads,  3^6 

Call  of  the  Wild,  The,  846-847 

Callender,  Joseph,  100 

Calverton,  V.  F.,  9^6 

"Cambridge  Churchyard,  The,"  370 

"Cambridge  Thirty  Years  Ago,"  382,  542 

Campbell,  Bartley,  his  My  Partner,  800 

Campbell,  Thomas,  132,  13$,  168,  361 

Campion,  Thomas,  21 

Can  Grande's  Castle,  863 

Can  Such  Things  Be?  760 

Candidates,  The,  164 

Canfield,  Dorothy,  see  Fisher,  Dorothy 
Canfield 

Cannery  Row,  961 

Canoe  and  the  Saddle,  The,  $70 

Canterbury  Pilgrims,  The,  832 

Cantos,  860,  861 

Cantwell,  Robert,  his  Laugh  and  Lie 
Down,  957;  The  Land  of  Plenty,  9^7 

Cape  Cod,  271 

Cape  Cod  Folks,  *6$(),  660 

Capitol,  The,  823 

"Captain  Craig,"  820 

Captain  Morgan:  or,  the  Conspiracy  Un- 
veiled, 501 

Captain  of  Company  K,  The,  648 

Captain  of  the  Gray-Horse  Troop,  The, 
650 

"Captain  Shrimp,"  see  Standish,  Miles 

Careful  and  Strict  Enquiry  into  the  Mod- 
ern prevailing  Notions  of  That  Free- 
dom of  Will,  Which  is  Supposed  to  be 
Essential  to  Moral  Agency,  *io9-iio, 
1 1 1 
Caridorf,  474 

Carleton,  Will,  591,  his  "Betsey  and  I 
Are  Out,"  637;  "Over  the  Hill  to  the 
Poor  House,"  637;  Farm  Ballads,  637; 
721 


Carlyle,  Thomas,  264,  26$,  277,  286,  287, 
399,  401,  408,  412,  532,  578,  589,  604, 
607,  612,  619,  620,  633,  690,  764,  774 

Carman,  Bliss,  Songs  from  Vagabondia, 
623;  724 

Carnegie,  Andrew,  976 

Carolina:  or  a  Description  of  the  Present 
State  of  that  Country,  28 

Carolina  Chansons,  918 

Carolina  Folk-Plays,  920-921 

Carpenter,  Edward,  613 

Carryl,  Guy  Wetmore,  his  Fables  for  the 
Frivolous,  722;  Mother  Goose  for 
Gr own-Dps,  -jn 

Caruthers,  William  Alexander,  his  Cava- 
liers of  Virginia,  i^i\  The  Kentuckian 
in  New  York,  z^i;  The  Knights  of  the 
Horseshoe,  242 

Carver,  Jonathan,  134 

Carwin  the  Biloquist,  194 

Cary,  Alice,  591,  646 

Cary,  Phoebe,  591 

"Case  of  George  Dedlow,  The,"  777 

"Cask  of  Amontillado,  The,"  292,  302 

"Caspipina's  Letters,"  see  Observations  on 
a  Variety  of  Subjects 

"Cassandra,"  821 

"Cassandra  Southwick,"  351 

Cassatt,  Mary,  581 

Cassique  of  Accabee  and  Other  Pieces, 
The,  359 

Cassique  of  Kiawah,  The,  240 

Castilian  Days,  682 

Casting  Away  of  Mrs.  Leeks  and  Mrs. 
Aleshine,  The,  706-707 

"Castle  Builder,  The,"  336 

Castle  Dismal,  239 

"Castles  in  Spain,"  338 

Cathay,  860 

"Cathedral,  The,"  379-380 

Cathedral,  The,  376 

Cather,  Willa,  639,  654,  660,  *  907-911,  her 
absorption  with  the  abundance  of  life, 
007;   early  experiences  and  travel,  007 
her    Alexander's   Bridge,    qo8;    O   Pio- 
neers! 908;  The  Song  of  the  Lark,  qo8 
My  Antonia,  qo8;  Youth  and  the  Bright 
Medusa,  909;  "Coming  Aphrodite,"  909 
One  of  Ours,  909;  A  Lost  Lady,  909, 
The    Professor's   House,    009-010;    My 
Mortal  Enemy,  909,  910;  Death  Coines 
for   the   Archbishop,   Shadows   on   the 
Rock.    910;    Lucy    Gayheart,    910-01 1; 
Sapphira  and  the  Slave  Girl,  qii;  The 
Old  Beauty  and  Others,  911;  "The  Best 
Years,"  911;   her  non-conformity,  911; 
her  essays,  Not  Under  Forty,  911;  912, 
916 

Catholic  University  of  America.  683 

Catholicism,  7,  10,  15,  16,  26,  38,  39,  56, 
74,  78,  85,  186,  239,  266,  354,  527,  528, 
722,  780,  910 

Cavaliers  of  Virginia,  the,  22,  25,  220,  242 
Cavaliers  of  Virginia:  or,  The  Recluse  of 

]amestown,  242 
Cavender's  House,  821 


i  1 1 8 


INDEX 


Cawein,  Madison,  305,  his  Blooms  of  the   I 
Berry,  723;  Kentucky  Poems,  723;  "The 
Family   Burying   Ground,"   723 

Cecil  Dreeme,  570 

"Celebrated  Jumping  Frog  of  Calaveras 
( lounty,   The,"  645 

Celebrated  Jumping  Frog  of  Calaveras 
County   and  Other  Sketches,  The,  712 

"Celestial  Love,"  284 

"Celestial  Pilot,  The,"  339 

"Centennial   Hymn,"   352 

'Centennial  Meditation  of  Columbia,"  634 

Century    of  Dishonor,  A,  764 

"Certain  Condescension  in  Foreigners, 
A,     382-383 

Certain  Measure,  A,  917 

Cervantes,  338,  408,  608,  666,  708,  725 

Chadwick,  G.  \Y.,  587 

Chainbearers,  The,  232 

"Challenge  of  Thor,  The,"  342 

"Chambered  Nautilus,  The,"  364,  365 

Chambers,  Thomas,  547 

Chance  Acquaintance,  A,  669 

Chanfrau,  F.  S.,  504 

Charming,  Edward  T.,  249 

Charming,  William  Ellery,  * 262-263,  ms 
"Discourse  at  the  Ordination  of  Jared 
Sparks,"  262;  "Discourse  on  the  Evi- 
dence of  Revealed  Religion,"  262-263; 
287,  377,  387,  408,  463 

Channing,  William  Ellery,  2nd,  268,  271, 
his  "Hymn  of  the  Earth,"  274;  "A 
Poet's  Hope,"   274;   310,  403 

Channing,  \V.  H.,  264,  266,  268,  274 

"Chanting  the  Square  Deific,"  619 

Chapman,  George,   11,  255,  420 

Chapters  of  Erie  and  Other  Essays,  785 

"Character,"   284,  288 

Character  and  Opinion  in  the  United 
States,  945n,  948 

Character  of  the  Province  of  Mary-Land, 
A,  24 

Characteristics,  jj6 

Charlemont,  241 

Charles  the  Second,  209 

Charlotte  Temple,   192 

"Charms  and   Fairy  Faith,"   354 

Chateaubriand,  Francois,  134,  135,  235, 
639 

Chatterton,  Thomas,  624 

Chaucer,  $34,  ^46,  ^99,  405,  408,  410,  411, 
4i;-4<4<  4*5i  487,   581,  633,  832,  904 

"Chaucer,"  '41 3-414,  421 

Chauncy,  Charles,  100,  101,  his  Seasonable 
Thoughts  on  the  State  of  Religion  in 
New  England,  102;  108 

Chesnutt,  Charles   W.,  919 

Chestnut    Tree,   The,    [99 

Chevalier  of  Pensieri-Vani,  The,  *747, 
~4«; 

Cheyney,  Edward  P.,  his  Social  and  In- 
dustrial History  of  England,  952;  Euro- 
pean Hack  grounds  of  American  His- 
tory, 952 

"Chicago,"  843 

Chicago,  University  of,  826,  830,  qiH 


Chicago  Poems,  843 

"Chiefly  about  Wrar  Matters,"  318,  433, 
569 

Child,  Lydia  Maria,  her  Hobomok,  237; 
The  Rebels,  237;  Philothea,  237;  A  Ro- 
mance  of  the  Republic,  237;  393 

"Children  of  Adam,"  *6i6,  618 

Children  of  Earth,  832 

"Children   of  the   Lord's   Supper,  The," 

34' 
Children  of  the  Moon,  939 
"Children's  Hour,  The,"  336 
"Child's  Reminiscence,  A,"  see  "Out  of 

the  Cradle  Endlessly  Rocking" 
"Chimmie    Fadden";    Major    Max:    and 

Other  Stories,  761 
Chinese  Nightingale,  The,  841,  842 
Chita,  686-687 
Chivers,  T.  H.,  his  Conrad  and  Eudora, 

485 
Choir  Invisible,  The,  657 
"Choose  Something  Like  a  Star,"  906 
Chopin,  Kate  O'Flaherty,  her  "Desiree's 

Baby,"  654;  The  Avoakening,  654;  740 
Chris  Christopher  son,  see  Anna  Christie 
Christian  Philosopher,  The,  10 1 
Christian  Science,  715 
"Christmas  Banquet,  The,"  319 
"Christmas  Bells,"  443 
"Christmas  Greeting,  A,"  599 
Christopher  Blake,  939 
Christus,  332,  333,  343 
Christy  Minstrels,  511,  790 
"Chronicle  of  Fernan  Gonzalz,  Count  of 

Castile,"  218 
"Chronicle  of  Fernando  the  Saint,"  218 
Chronicle  of  the   Conquest  of  Granada, 

A,  *2i6,  218,  527 
Chronological  History   of  New  England 

in  the  Form  of  Annals,  82 
"Chrysanthemums,"  959 
Church,  Benjamin,  his  Entertaining  Pas- 
sages Relating  to  Philip's  War,  76 
Church,  F.  E.,  552 
Churches  Espoused,  The,  137 
Churchill,  Charles;  159 
Churchill,  Winston,  573,  739,  his  Richard 

Carvell,    890;     The    Crisis,    890;     The 

Crossing,   890;   Coniston,  Mr.   Crewe's 

Career,  890 
Cimarron,  891 
"Circles,"  285 
Circuit  Rider,  The,  647 
"City  in  the  Sea,  The,"  292,  293,  299,  300, 

City  Looking  Glass,  The,  474 

City  of  the  Silent,  The,  359 

"Civil  Disobedience,"  459 

Civil  War,  effect  of  on  literature,  352, 
440,  569-574,  609,  623,  651-652,  914,  926, 
on  drama,  516,  790;  treatment  of  in 
literature,  254,  259,  334,  349,  363,  370, 
428,  442,  446,  447,  453,  457,  458,  465, 
496,  513,  *569-574,  625,  627,  745,  757, 
758,  760,  799,  806,  807,  823,  884,  890, 
953;  see  also  336,  454,  504,  517,  684,  703, 


INDEX 


1 1 19 


727,  763,  769,  772,  784,  787^798,  813, 
826,  950,  951;  see  also  Abolition,  Re- 
construction, Union 

Claim  Jumpers,  The,  892 

Clara  Howard,  195 

Clarel,  247 

Clari,  208 

Clark,  Charles  H.,  702 

Clark,  Thomas  March,  259 

Clarke,  James  Freeman,  264,  265 

Clark's  Field,  830 

Clavers,  Mrs.  Mary,  see  Kirkland,  Caro- 
line 

Clay,  Henry,  424,  428,  444,  524,  544 

"Clean,  Well-Lighted  Place,  A,"  883 

Clemens,  Samuel,  see  Twain,  Mark 

Cliff -Dwellers,  The,  747-748 

Clifton,  Josephine,  483,  485 

Climbers,  The,  824 

Clinch,  C.  P.,  228 

Clough,  A.  H.,  290,  408 

Clurman,  Harold,  his  The  Fervent  Years, 
961 

Cocktail  Party,  The,  898n 

"Code,  The,"  904 

Cohan,  George  M.  834 

Colby,  Frank  Moore,  his  Imaginary  Ob- 
ligations, 816 

Colden,  Cadwallader,  69,  his  The  History 
of  the  Five  Indian  Nations,  70-71 

Cole,  Thomas,  550-551 

Cole,  Timothy,  577 

Coleridge,  S.  T.,  132,  135,  212,  264,  277, 
387,  388,  395,  401,  417,  421,  541 

"Coliseum,  The,"  301 

Colleen  Bawn,  The,  *5i4,  515 

College,  Academy,  and  Charitable  School, 
see  Pennsylvania,  University  of 

College  of  New  Jersey,  see  Princeton 
University 

College  Widow,  The,  837 

Collier,  E.  K.,  498 

Collier,  Jeremy,  161 

Columbia  University,  founding  of,  91, 
102,  150,  503,  582,  584,  585,  587,  725, 
741,  829,  833,  952 

Columbiad,  The,  *  187-188,  satirized,  213; 

537,  546 

"Columbus,"  631 

Columbus,  Christopher,  215,  216,  218,  287, 
560,  968 

"Come  In,"  906 

"Comedian  as  the  Letter  C,  The,"  970 

"Coming  Aphrodite,"  909 

Common  Faith,  A,  949 

Common  Glory,  The,  921,  941 

Common  Sense:  Addressed  to  the  In- 
habitants of  America,  151,  153-154 

Commons,  John  R.,  his  Documentary 
History  of  American  Industrial  Society, 
953;  History  of  Labor  in  the  United 
States,  953 

Companions  on  the  Trail,  650-651 

"Compensation,"  281 

Concerning  the  End  for  which  God  cre- 
ated the  world,  in 


"Concord  Hymn,"   352 

Conduct  of  Life,  The,  285 

Confession:  or,  The  Blind  Heart,  239 

Confidence,  689 

Confidence  Man,  The,  247 

"Congo,  The,"  842 

Congo  and  Other  Poems,  The,  841 

Congress  Canvassed,  The,  150 

Congreve,  William,  161,  482 

Coniston,  890 

"Conjunction     of     Jupiter     and     Venus, 

The,"  251-252 
Connecticut  Wits,  158,  189,  385 
Connecticut    Yankee    in    King    Arthur's 

Court,  718-719 
Connelly,  Marc,  856,  890,  919,  939 
Conner,    Charlotte    Barnes,    her    Octavia 

Bragaldi,  485;  The  Forest  Princess,  485; 

499 
"Conqueror  Worm,  The,"  299,  301 
"Conqueror's  Grave,  The,"  253 
Conquest  of  Canaan,  The,  186,  540 
Conquistador,  861,  867 
Conrad,  Robert,  469,  his  Jack  Cade,  482- 

483 
Conrad  and  Eudora,  485 
Conroy,  Jack,  his  The  Disinherited,  957; 

World  to  Win,  957 
"Conservative,  The,"  435 
"Considerable  Speck,  A,"  906 
Considerations  on   the  Propriety   of  Im- 
posing  Taxes  in   the  British   Colonies, 

141 
Constance  Trescot,  777 
"Constellations,  The,"  253 
Constitution   of  the   United   States,    117, 

175,    176,    179,    182,    183,    184,    196,  424, 
(  438,   454,  455-456,   525,  952,  953 
"Contagiousness     of      Puerperal      Fever, 

The,"  362 
"Contemplations,"  64 
"Contentment,"  365 
Contrast,  The,  27,  *  198-199,  200,  503,  508, 

548 
"Convalescence    of   Jack   Hamlin,    The," 

645 
Convalescent,  The,  n\ 
Conversation  at  Midnight,  894 
Conversations  on  Some  of  the  Old  Poets, 

375,  42o 
"Cook,   Ebenezer,   Gentleman,"   his    The 

Sot-Weed  Factor,  55;  Sotweed  Redivi- 

vus,  55;  The  Maryland  Muse,  55 
Cook,  George  Cram,  928 
Cook,  Susan  Glaspell,  929-930 
Cooke,    John    Esten,    259,    his    Surry    of 

Eagle 's-N 'est,  573;  652 
Cooke,     Rose     Terry,     her    Somebody's 

Neighbors,  641;  657 
Cooper,  James  Fenimore,  18,  167,  211,  219, 

222,  *226-235,  birth,  226;  education,  226; 

naval  service,  226;  his  Precaution,  117; 

The     Spy,     227-228;     autobiographical 

sketch,  227n;  creates  the  novel   of  the 

frontier,  228;   The  Pioneers,  228;   The 

Pilot,   228;   stay  in  Europe,    228;   The 


INDEX 


Cooper,  James  Fenimore    (cont'd) 

Last  of  the  Mohicans,  229;  The  Prairie, 
229;  The  Pathfinder,  229-230;  The 
Deerslayer,  230;  The  Wept  of  Wish- 
ton-Wish,  230;  Wyandotte,  230;  Oak 
Openings,  230;  the  novel  of  the  sea, 
230-231;  The  Red  Rover,  230;  The 
Water-Witch,  230;  The  Sea  Lions, 
230;  The  Two  Admirals,  230-231;  Afloat 
and  Ashore,  231;  Wing  and  Wing,  231; 
Miles  Wallingford,  231;  Jack  Tier,  231; 
Lionel  Lincoln,  231;  Mercedes  of  Cas- 
tile, 231;  spokesman  for  democracy, 
231-233;  The  Bravo,  232;  Heidenmauer, 
232;  77;  e  Headsman,  232;  Homeward 
Bound,  232;  Home  as  Found,  232; 
Satanstoe,  232;  Tfce  Chainbearers,  232; 
77.v  Redskins,  232;  77:>e  Monikins,  232; 
77?<?  Crater,  232;  Tfte  TFdryj  of  £&e 
Hour,  232;  insight  into  American  char-„ 
acter,  Notions  of  the  Americans  Picked 
Up  by  a  Travelling  Bachelor,  232; 
Sketches  of  Switzerland,  233;  Glean- 
ings in  Europe,  233-234;  his  independ- 
ence of  character,  234;  History  of  the 
United  States  Navy,  234;  Upside  Dowm 
or,  Philosophy  in  Petticoats,  234;  Auto-. 
biography  of  a  Pocket  Handkerchief, 
234;  his  qualities  and  faults,  235;  status 
in  world  literature,  235;  237,  239,  258, 
321,  322,  403,  404,  409,  427,  relation  to 
politics,    *428~432,    464,    472,    527,    529, 

534^    535,    541 1   543,   545,    549,    550,    55 *» 

552,    554,    556,   591,   604,   642,   643,   681, 

739,  743,  780,  879 
Coplas  de  Manrique,  The,  translated  by 

Longfellow,  324,  337 
Copley,  John  Singleton,  535,  537,  558 
Copperhead,    The     (Frederic),    744, 

745 
Copperhead,  The  (Thomas),  823 
Coquette,  The,  192 
"Corn,"  634 

Cornell    University,  359,  585 
"Cotton-Boll,  The,"  572 
Count  Frontenac  and  New  France  under 

Louis  XIV,  7S1 
Count    of   Monte   Cristo,   The,   dramatic 

version,  "91 
Counterfeit   Presentment,  A,  798 
Country  Doctor,  A,  658 
Country  of  the  Pointed  Firs,  The,  658 
"Country  Sleighing,"  6:8 
Countryman,   The,  655 
County  Chairman,  The,  837 
"Course  of  the  Whigs,  The,"  451 
Court   o\    Love,  The,  sec  How  to    Try  a 

I. over 

"Courtin',  The,"  177 

Courtship  of  Miles  Staudish,  The,  531, 
translations  of,  ^44;  Lowell's  criticism 
of,  4" 

Cousin,  Victor,  264 

"( Cousin  Nancy,"  87s 

Covert  d  Wagon.  The,  891 

Cowled  Lover,  The,  4^4 


Cowley,  Malcolm,  885,  his  Exile's  Re- 
turn, 956 

Cowper,  William,  249,  399,  419 

Craddock,  Charles  Egbert,  see  iMurfree, 
Mary  Noailles 

Craig's  Wife,  856 

Cranch,  Christopher  P.,  265,  his  "Human 
Helpers,"   274;   "Gnosis,"    274;   393 

Crane,  Hart,  861,  * 968-969,  his  The 
Bridge,  early  experiences  and  influ- 
ences, 968;  "The  Broken  Tower,"  968- 
969;  "Praise  for  an  Urn,"  969;  "At  Mel- 
ville's Tomb,"  969;  "Voyages,"  969; 
"Royal  Palm,"  969;  974 

Crane,  Stephen,  573,  576,  589,  592,  674, 
740,  743,  744,  *754-76o,  birth,  755;  jour- 
nalism, 755;  his  Maggie:  A  Girl  of  the 
Streets,  755-756;  The  Black  Riders,  756; 
George's  Mother,  756;  The  Red  Badge 
of  Courage,  757-758;  correspondent 
from  Cuba,  758;  "The  Open  Boat,"  758; 
assignment  in  Greece,  758;  marriage, 
758;  The  Third  Violet,  758;  "The 
Monster,"  758;  War  is  Kind,  758;  Ac- 
tive Service,  758;  settles  in  England, 
759;  The  O' Ruddy,  759;  Whilomville 
Stories,  759;  death,  759;  762,  879 

Crater,  The,  232 

Crawford,  Francis  Marion,  ^91,  * 684-686, 
his  Mr.  Isaacs,  685;  The  Novel:  What 
It  Is,  685;  The  White  Sister,  685;  An 
American  Politician,  685;  Via  Crucis, 
685;  Saracinesca,  685;  San?  llario,  685; 
Don  Orsino,  685;  "Zoroaster,  686; 
Marzio's  Crucifix,  686;  770 

Crawford,  Thomas,  534,  535,  557,  558, 
684 

Crayon  Miscellany,  216 

"Credidimus  Jovem  Regnare,"   380 

Crevecoeur,  Michel  Guillaume  Jean  de, 
*  129-133,  birth,  129;  comes  to  America, 
129;  attitude  toward  American  Revolu- 
tion, 129-130;  Letters  from  an  Ameri- 
can Farmer,  130;  European  residences, 
130;  appointed  French  consul  to  New 
York,  130;  death,  130;  elected  American 
Philosophical  Society,  130;  Voyage 
dans  la  Haute  Pennsylvanie  et  dans 
VEtat  de  New  York,  130;  Sketches  of 
Eighteenth  Century  America,  130; 
style,  131;  on  nature,  132;  articulates 
the  American  ideal,  132-133;  influence 
abroad,    133,   135 

"Crime  and  Automatism,"  371 

Criminal  Code,  The,  939 

"Crimson  Cyclamen,  The,"  971 

Crisis,  The  (Churchill),  573,  890 
j    Crisis,  The  (Paine),  151 
I    Critical  Fable,  A,  86; 
j    Criticism,  early  standards  of,  97;  advance 
under  Noah  Webster,  100;  384-422,  the 
kinds  of  criticism,  descriptive,  destruc- 
tive,    analytic,     constructive,     384-385; 
characteristics  of  early  nineteenth  cen- 
tury   criticism,    385;    Bryant    as    critic, 
585-387,  his  "Lectures  on  Poetry,"  385, 


INDEX 


on  national  poetry,  385,  his  discrimina- 
tion, 386,  on  English  poets,  386-387; 
Poe,  387-397,  his  early  critical  essays, 
387,  influence  on  later  critics,  387,  defi- 
nition of  poetry,  387-388,  distinction 
between  Imagination  and  Fancy,  388, 
his  plea  for  universality  in  art,  389,  on 
the  nature  of  criticism,  his  theory  of 
poetry  restated,  389-390,  definition  of 
the  short  story,  390-391,  dramatic  crit- 
icism, 391-392,  his  faults  as  a  critic, 
392-394,  "The  Literati  of  New  York 
City,"  393,  his  "Philosophy  of  Compo- 
sition," 394-395,  on  versification,  395- 
396,  "The  Poetic  Principle,"  396,  his 
influence  in  France  and  the  United 
States,  397;  Emerson,  397-408,  on  books 
and  reading,  398-400,  on  poetry,  401- 
402,  on  the  symbol,  402,  Representative 
Men,  404-407;  Lowell,  408-421,  his  criti- 
cal method  based  on  the  study  of  in- 
dividuals, 408-409,  The  Fable  for  Critics, 
409-410,  on  the  universal  quality  in  lit- 
erature, 410,  on  Longfellow,  410-412, 
on  Thoreau,  412-413,  on  Emerson,  413, 
on  Howells,  413,  Lectures  on  English 
Poets,  413-417,  Chaucer,  413-414,  Spen- 
ser, 414,  Milton,  414-415,  Pope,  415, 
Wordsworth,  416-417,  on  Keats,  417, 
Shakespeare,  417-419,  Dryden,  419,  420, 
Lessing,  419,  Dante,  419-420,  Gray,  420, 
dramatic  criticism,  420-421,  his  critical 
limitations,  421;  Stedman,  628,  his  Vic- 
toria!? Poets,  628,  Poets  of  America,  628, 
The  Nature  and  Elements  of  Poetry, 
628;  Howells,  676-678,  the  democratic 
view  of  the  arts,  677,  on  nationality  in 
literature,  677-678,  his  crusade  for  re- 
alism, 678;  Crawford,  The  Novel:  What 
It  Is,  685;  James,  698-700,  The  Art  of 
Fiction,  698,  Hawthorne,  699;  Brownell, 
814-815,  defender  of  tradition,  815,  on 
the  principles  of  criticism,  815;  Agnes 
Repplier,  816;  Eliot,  877;  the  New  Hu- 
manists, 895-896;  the  academics,  900- 
903,  Schelling,  902;  the  Fugitive  group, 
922-924;  effect  of  Marxism,  955-957 
Criticism    and    Fiction,    6y6,    *6yj,    678, 

"Criticism  as  Pure  Speculation,"  923 

Crockett,  Davy,  702 

Cross  and  the  Arrow,  The,  961 

"Cross  of  Snow,  The,"  335 

Crossing,  The,  890 

"Crossing  Brooklyn  Ferry,"  618 

Crothers,  Rachel,  her  A  Man's  World, 
927;  He  and  She,  927;  As  Husbands 
Go,  927;  When  Ladies  Meet,  927 

Crothers,  Samuel  McChord,  his  The 
Gentle  Reader,  816 

Crouse,  Russell,  941 

Crumbling  Idols,  *6^g,  678,  740 

Crusade  in  Europe,  981 

Cullen,  Countee,  920 

"Culprit  Fay,  The,"  261,  387 

Culture,  861 


"Cumberland,  The,"  442 

Cummings,  E.  E.,  *964~966,  his  The 
Enormous  Roo?n,  965;  Tulips  and 
Chimneys,  965;  characteristics  of  his 
work,  965;  Eimi,  965;  Him,  965;  Tom, 
965;  Collected  Poems,  965-966 

"Currents  and  Countercurrents  in  Medi- 
cal Science,"   362 

Currier  and  Ives,  553-554,  581 

Curtis,  George  William,  268,  497,  570, 
576,  594,  764 

Cushman,  Charlotte,  471,  497,  499 

Custis,  George  Washington  Parke,  his 
The  Indian  Prophecy,  498;  Pocahontas: 
or,  The  Settlers  of  Virginia,  499 

Cynic's  Word  Book,  The,  see  Devil's 
Dictionary,  The 


"Daemonic  Love,"  284 

Daisy  Mayme,  856 

Daisy  Miller,  *688,  692,  dramatized, 
694 

"Dalliance  of  the  Eagles,  The,"  610 

Daly,  Augustin,  his  Under  the  Gas  Light, 
504;  511,  Horizon,  799;  his  supremacy 
as  an  artistic  producer  at  "Daly's 
Theatre,"  801;  802 

Damaged  Souls,  903 

Damnation  of  Theron  Ware,  744-745 

"Dan  Plue's  Story,"  647 

Dana,  Charles  Anderson,  760 

Dana,  Richard  Henry,  Senior,  249,  edits 
The  Idle  Man,  261;  his  "The  Bucca- 
neer," 261;  "Factitious  Life,"  261; 
"Thoughts  on  the  Soul,"  261;  "The 
Dying  Raven,"  261;  "The  Death  of 
Washington  Allston,"  261;  642 

Danbury  News  Man,  The,  see  Bailey, 
James  M. 

"Dance  to  Death,  The,"  728 

Danites  in  the  Sierras,  The,  630,  800 

Dante,  286,  334,  339,  340,  408,  417,  419, 
420,  491,  492,  604,  663,  841,  860,  861, 
875,  897,  898,  967 

Dante  (Eliot),  877 

"Dante"  (Lowell),  421 

Darby's  Return,  201 

Darfo,  Ruben,  306 

Dark  Laughter,  872 

Dark  of  the  Moon,  893 

Darling  of  the  Gods,  The,  824 

Dartmouth  College,  founding  of,  91,  363, 
611,  724,  729,  903 

Darwin,  Charles,  368-369,  380,  593,  620, 
633,  648,  772,  775,  778,  787,  943 

Date  1601:  Conversation,  as  It  Was  by 
the  Social  Fireside,  in  the  Time  of  the 
Tudors,  708 

Daudet,  Alphonse,  589^  640,  676,  691, 
693,  738 

"Daughter,"  958 

Daughter  of  the  Storage  and  Other 
Things  in  Prose  and  Verse,  The,  675 

Daughter  of  the  Tenements,  A,  761 

Davenport,  E.  L.,  206,  486,  491 


1  122 


INDEX 


Davidson,  Donald,  922,  his  The  Tall  Men, 
924;  Lee  in  the  Mountains,  924;  Attack 
on  Leviathan,  924 

Davidson,  fohn,  857 

Davis,  Donald,  817 

Davis,  Ow  en,  817 

Davis,  Rebecca  Harding,  *662-663,  her 
"Life  in  the  Iron  A 1  ills,"  662;  Margret 
Hoivth,  662-663;  76o>  7°4,  954 

Davis,  Richard  Harding,  his  Gallegher 
an  J  Other  Stories,  760;  Van  Bibber  and 
Others,  760;  "The  Bar  Sinister,"  761 

Davy  Crockett,  799 

Daivn,  849 

Dawson,  William,  Poems  on  Several  Oc- 
casions attributed  to,  54 

Day,  Clarence,  his  Life  with  Father,  816 

"Day  is  Done,  The,"  *345~346,  393 

Day  of  Doom,  The,  60-62 

Daye,  Stephen,  92 

"Days,"  286 

Days  Without  End,  934 

"Deacon's  Masterpiece:  or,  The  Won- 
derful 'One  Hoss  Shay',  The,"  365 

"Dead,  The,"  275 

"Dcad  House,  The,"  378 

Dean,  Julia,  489,  494 

Dear  Judas,  878 

Death  Comes  for  the  Archbishop,  910 

"Death  in  the  School  Room,"  603 

Death  in  the  Woods,  872 

Death  of  a  Salesman,  939-940 

Death  of  General  Montgomery,  The,  164 

"Death  of  Slavery,  The,"  428 

"Death  of  the  Flowers,  The,"  251,  255 

"Death  of  the  Hired  Man,  The,"  904 

"Death  of  Washington  Allston,"  261 

"Debate  in  the  Sennit,  The,"  449 

Declaration  of  Independence,  The,  116, 
137,   139,   157,   175,   183 

"Decline  of  the  Roman  People,"  520-521 

Deep  Are  the  Roots,  941 

Deep  Mrs.  Sykes,  The,  856 

Deepening  Stream,  The,  911 

Deephaven,  658 

Deerslayer,  The,  *n,o,  472 
Defence  of  Poetry,"  324 

Defence  of  the  Constitution  of  Govern- 
ment of  the  United  States,  144 

DeFoe,  Daniel,   197 

Deformed:  or,  Woman's  Trial,  The,  *47o, 
472 

DeForrest,  John  William,  573,  593,  651, 
*66i-66$,  his  Miss  RavenePs  Conver- 
sion, 663,  664;  History  of  the  Indians 
<>\  Connecticut,  663;  Witching  Times, 
663;  Scad i If:  or,  The  Mystery  of  the 
Westervelts,  663-664;  war  and  post-war 
service,  664,  Overland,  664;  Kate  Beau- 
niout,  664-665-,  A  Lover's  Revolt,  665; 
Honest  fohn  Vane,  665;  Playing  the 
Mischief,  665;  674,  764 

"Deity,  The,"  ^48 

Dekker,    rhomas,  202,  470 

DeKoven,    Reginald,    his    Robin    Hood, 

?87 


Deland,     Margaret,     her     John     Ward, 

Preacher,  744;  Old  Chester  Tales,  870, 

Dr.  Lavendar's  People,  870 
Deliverance,  The,  915 
Delta  Wedding,  925-926 
Demagogue,  The,  647 
Democracy,    definition    of    by    Madison, 

181,  by   Lowell,  455-456;   26-27,   29-31, 

188,    232,    322-323,    366-367,    380,    381, 

430,  431-432,  434,  Whitman's  concep- 
tion of,  598-601,  785,  833,  882,  972 

Democracy   (Henry  Adams),  665,  *785 
"Democracy"    (Lowell),  455 
"Democracy"    (Whittier),  352,  353 
Democracy  and  Education,  949 
Democracy  and  Other  Addresses,  376 
Democratic   Distinction  in  America,  815 
Democratic    Vistas,   601,   *6i2-6i3,   adhe- 
sive love  celebrated,  616-617,  620,  621, 

873 

"Demos,'  305 

Dennie,  Joseph,  197,  199 

Denton,  Daniel,  his  A  Brief  Description 
of  New  York,  26;  59 

"Departmental,"  905 

Derby,  George  Horatio,  642 

Descartes,  5,  846 

Descendant,  The,  916 

"Descent  into  the  Maelstrom,  A,"  303 

Descent  of  Man,  The,  772 

Desire  Under  the  Elms,  930,  93 1 

"Desiree's  Baby,"  654 

DeSoto,  499-500 

Despotisjn  in  America,  460 

deVega,  Lope,  5,  337,  672 

Devil  and  Daniel  Webster,  The,  891 

"Devil  in  Manuscript,  The,"  309 

DeviPs  Dictionary,  The,  760 

DeVoto,  Bernard,  his  Mark  Twain's 
America,  7 1 1 

DeWalden,  T.  B.,  his  Kit,  the  Arkansas 
Traveler,  799 

Dewey,  John,  833,  944,  *948-949,  his  In- 
strumentalism,  949;  The  School  and 
Society,  949;  Democracy  and  Educa- 
tion, 949;  Human  Nature  and  Conduct, 
949;  Philosophy  and  Civilization,  949; 
Art  as  Experience,  949;  A  Common 
Faith,  949;  Liberalism  and  Social  Ac- 
tion, 949;  Freedom  and  Culture,  949; 
his  influence,  949;  950 

"Dialogue  Between  a  Patriot  and  a  New 
Netherlander,"  26 

Dialogue  Concerning  Virtue  and  Pleas- 
ure, A,  118 

Dialogues  in  Limbo,  948 

"Diamond  Lens,  The,"  307 

"Diamond  Wedding,  The,"  627 

Diary  of  William  Dunlap,  200 

Dickens,  Charles,  188,  218,  309,  388,  394, 

431.  473,  57o,  589,  639,  642,  643,  644, 
660,  661,  663,  678,  699,  752,  753,  754, 
762,  804 

Dickinson,  Emily,  576,  592,  622,  676,  *729- 
736,  birth,  729;  education,  729-730;  lit- 
erary friendships,  730;  retirement  from 


INDEX 


1123 


the  world,  731;  posthumous  publication 
of  works,  732-733;  their  reception,  733; 
The  Single  Hound,  733;  Complete 
Poems,  733;  Unpublished  Poems,  733; 
Bolts  of  Melody,  733;  her  metres,  734; 
imagery,  734;  a  metaphysical  poet,  735; 
clues  to  her  genius,  735-736;  738,  756, 
814,  867 

Dickinson,  John,  *  146-149,  birth,  146; 
legal  and  governmental  activities,  146; 
interest  in  education,  146;  author  of 
state  papers,  political  essays,  broadsides, 
a  song,  146;  his  Letters  From  a  Fanner 
in  Pennsylvania,  147-149;  joins  the 
American  army,  147;  literary  skill,  148- 
149;  152,  165,  183 

Dickinson,  Jonathan,  his  Gods  Protecting 
Providence,  78 

Dictionary  of  American  Biography,  953 

"Difference,  The,"  723 

Different,  930 

Digges,  Thomas  Atwood,  his  Adventures 
of  Alonzo,  190 

"Dionysus  in  Doubt,"  305,  822 

"Dirge  for  a  Soldier,"  458 

"Discourager  of  Hesitancy,  The,"   707 

Discourse  concerning  Unlimited  Submis- 
sion,  A,  138 

"Discourse  on  the  Transient  and  Perma- 
nent in  Christianity,"  266 

Discovery  of  the  Great  West,  The,  781 

Disinherited,  The,  957 

Disowned,  The,  an  adaptation,  470 

Dissertation  on  the  Canon  and  the  Feudal 
Law,  143 

Distant  Relations,  502 

Distinguishing  Marks  of  a  Work  of  the 
Spirit  of  God,  The,  108 

Diverting  History  of  John  Bull  and 
Brother  Jonathan,  219 

Divine  and  Supernatural  Light,  A,  107 

Divine  Comedy,  The,  translation  of,  by 
Longfellow,  334,  *339~34o,  358,  668 

Divine  Tragedy,  The,  333 

"Dixie,"  571 

Dobson,  H.  A.,  624 

Doctor  Breerts  Practice,  670 

Dr.  Grimshawe's  Secret,  318 

"Dr.  Heidegger's  Experiment,"  318 

Dr.  Heidenhoffs  Process,  768 

Dr.  Lavendafs  People,  870 

Dr.  North  and  His  Friends,  776 

Dr.  Sevier,  654 

Doctrine  of  Divine  Providence,  The,  47 

Doctrine  of  Life:  or  of  Man's  Redemp- 
tion, The,  46 

Documentary  History  of  American  In- 
dustrial Society,  953 

Dodsivorth,  855 

"Dogood  Papers,"  96 

Dolliver  Romance,  The,  318 

"Dolph  Heyliger,"  215 

"Domain  of  Arnheim,  The,"  304,  561 

Dome  of  Many-Colored  Glass,  A,  862 

Domesday  Book,  870 

"Domestic  Life,"  287 


Don  Orsino,  685 

Donne,  John,  9-10,  20-21,  57,  874,  966 

Dooley,  Mr.,  see  Dunne,  Finley  Peter 

Doolittle,  Hilda,  early  Imagist  poems, 
864;  Sea  Garden,  864;  Hippolitus  Tem- 
porizes, 864;  translation  of  Euripides' 
Ion,  864;  The  Walls  Do  Not  Fall,  864; 
Tribute  to  the  Angels,  864 

"Doomed  City,  The,"  300 

d'Orleans,  Charles,  336 

"Dorothy  Q,"  367 

Dos  Passos,  John,  651,  *88o-882,  his  First 
Encounter,  880;  Three  Soldiers,  880; 
Manhattan  Transfer,  880;  his  technique, 
881;  US. A.,  The  42nd  Parallel,  881, 
1919,  881,  The  Big  Money,  881;  travel 
books  and  Three  Plays,  882;  Adven- 
tures of  a  Young  Man,  882;  The 
Ground  We  Stand  On,  882;  Number 
One,  882;  900,  957,  965 

Dostoievsky,  Feodor,  306,  698,  741      *r-"" 

Douglas,  David,  69 

Douglas,  Stephen,  524 

Douglass,  William,  77,  his  A  Summary, 
Historical  and  Political,  of  the  . . .  Brit- 
ish Settlements  in  N orth- America,  83, 
100-101,  104 

Dowden,  Edward,  613 

Down  Easter s,  221 

Downing,  Jack,  702 

Downing,  Robert,  477 

Dowson,  Ernest,  857 

Drake,  Joseph  Rodman,  260,  his  "The 
Culprit  Fay,"  261;  "The  American 
Flag,"  261;  361,  387,  388 

Drayton,  Michael,  9 

Dream  of  Love,  A,  971 

"Dream  within  a  Dream,  A,"  352 

"Dreamland,"  299,  300 

Dred:  A  Tale  of  the  Great  Dismal 
Swamp,  460-461 

Dreiser,  Theodore,  651,  740,  748,  751,  752, 
755,  762m  775,  795,  *847-85i,  back- 
ground and  early  life,  847;  education, 
848;  his  Sister  Carrie,  848;  Jennie  Ger- 
hardt,  848;  The  Financier,  848;  The 
Titan,  848-849;  The  lGenius\  849;  Free, 
and  Other  Stories,  849;  Twelve  Men, 
849;  A  Traveler  at  Forty,  849;  A  Hoo- 
sier  Holiday,  849;  A  Book  about  My- 
self, 849;  Davon,  849;  An  American 
Tragedy,  849;  The  Bidwark,  849-850; 
his  acceptance  slow  and  on  his  own 
terms,  850-851;  854,  925,  957 

Drew,  John,  801 

Drift  of  Romanticism,  The,  896 

Drifting  Apart,  804 

"Drinkers'  Dictionary,"  121 

Drum-Taps,  572,  *6o9-6io,  reception,  610, 
attack  upon  and  defence  of  Whitman, 
610-611,  618 

Drums,  890 

Drums  Along  the  Mohawk,  890-891 

Dry  Salvages,  898-899 

Dryden,  John,  59,  93,  96,  99,  142,  161, 
169,  398,  408,  419,  420,  421 


I24 


INDEX 


DuBartas,  Guillaume,  63,  64 

DuBois,  W.  E.  B.,  his  The  Souls  of  Black 
Folk,  920 

Duche,  Jacob,  his  Observations  on  a  Va- 
riety of  Subjects,  140 

Dukesborough  Tales,  652 

Dulany,  Daniel,  his  Considerations  on  the 
Propriety  of  Imposing  Taxes  in  the 
British  Colonies,  141,  147 

Duley,  856,  939 

Dumas,  Alexandre,  472,  643,  661,  699,  706, 

778 

Dumas,  Alexandre,  fils,  697 

"Dumb  Girl,"  220 

Dunbar,  Paul  Laurence,  *6^6-6^-j,  his 
"Goin  Back,"  657;  Folks  from  Dixie, 
657;  In  Old  Plantation  Days,  657;  676, 
919 

Dunlap,  William,  his  Life  of  C  B.  Brown, 
193,  194;  *200-204,  his  Diary,  200;  His- 
tory of  the  American  Theatre,  200; 
birth,  200;  studies  with  Benjamin  West, 
200;  The  Father:  or,  American  Shandy- 
ism,  200;  Darby's  Return,  201;  Leices- 
ter, 201;  Fontainville  Abbey,  201;  The 
Archers,  201;  manager,  the  American 
Company,  201;  Ribbemont,  201;  Andre, 
revised  as  The  Glory  of  Columbia,  201- 
202;  adaptations  of  Elizabethan  Drama: 
The  Italian  Father,  202;  adaptations 
from  the  German:  The  Stranger,  202- 
203,  Lovers'  Vows,  203,  False  Shame, 
203,  The  Virgin  of  the  Sun,  203;  Pi- 
zarro  in  Peru,  203,  Fraternal  Discord, 
203;  French  adaptations,  the  melodrame: 
The  Voice  of  Nature,  203,  Wife  of 
Two  Husbands,  203;  assistant  manager, 
Park  Theatre,  203;  Yankee  Chronology, 
203;  Battle  of  New  Orleans,  203;  A 
Trip  to  Niagara,  203;  qualities  of  the 
plays,  203-204;  470,  498,  511,  535,  *539, 
his  History  of  the  American  Theatre, 
539;  History  of  the  Rise  and  Progress 
of  the  Arts  of  Design  in  the  United 
States,    539;    his    pastels    and    portraits, 

539 

Dunne,  Finlcy  Peter,  835-836,  his  Mr. 
Dooley,  critic,  689,  702,  836 

Durand,  Ashcr,  251,  551 

Durant,  Will,  981 

d'Usseau,  Arnaud,  941 

Dutchman's  Fireside,  The,  219 

Dwelling  Place,  The,  926 

Dwight,  J.  S.,  264    . 

Dwight,  Theodore,  193 

Dwight,  Timothy,  158,  161,  *  186-187,  rep- 
resentative of  the  Federalist  ideal,  186; 
grandson  of  Jonathan  Edwards,  186; 
birth,  [86;  education,  186;  president  of 
Y;ik\  t86;  death,  186;  The  Conquest  of 
Canaan,  [86;  'Fhe  'triumph  of  Infidel- 
ity, 186;  Greenfield  Hill,  187;  later  ser- 
mons. 1S-;  cousin  to  Aaron  Burr,  187; 
Travels  in  Sew  England  and  New 
York,  187;  one  of  the  Connecticut  Wits, 
[87;  epic  poet,  187;  537,  540 


"Dying  Raven,  The,"  26] 
Dynamo,  933 


"E  Pluribus  Unum,"  452 
"Each  and  All,"  265,  280 
"Each    Heart    Hath    Its    Own    Secret," 

445 

Eagle,  The,  199 

"Eagle  and  the  Mole,  The,"  894 

Eakins,  Thomas,  579,  *  580-581,  study 
abroad,  580;  subjects  and  characteristics, 
580,  581;  portraits,  580;  "The  Thinker," 
580;  "The  Gross  Clinic,"  580;  "The 
Agnew  Clinic,"  580;  814 

Earl,  Ralph,  537,  550 

Early  Americana,  891 

Early  Autumn,  840 

Early  Spring  in  Massachusetts,  271 

"Earth  Song,  The,"  283 

Earth  Triumphant,  867 

East  Coker,  898,  899 

East  Lynne,  791 

Eastman,  Max,  his  The  Literary  Mind: 
Its  Place  in  an  Age  of  Science,  955; 
Artists  in  Uniform,  955-956 

Ecce  Homo,  960 

Economic  Origins  of  Jeffersonian  Democ- 
racy, 952 

Eddy,  Mary  Baker,  577,  682,  771 

Edgar  Huntly,  *  195,  196 

"Edict  by  the  King  of  Prussia,"  1 2 1 

"Edith  Linsey,"  222 

Edmonds,  Walter  D.,  his  Rome  Haul, 
890;  Drums  Along  the  Mohawk,  890- 
891;  In  the  Hands  of  the  Senecas, 
891 

Education,  13,  15,  31,  37,  90-91,  98,  116, 
146,  159,  184,  188,  189,  288-289,  948-949, 

975 

"Education,"  289 

"Education  by  Poetry,"  906 

Education  of  Henry  Adams,  The,  *-]%!- 
783,  *788~789,  903n,  943,  981 

"Education  of  the  People,"  269,  definition 
of  democracy,  269 

"Edward  Randolph's  Portrait,"  3 1 1 

Edwards,  H.  S.,  his  "/Eneas  Africanus," 
656 

Edwards,  Jonathan,  44,  100,  106-116,  con- 
trasted with  Franklin,  106,  118,  119; 
birth,  106;  education,  106,  107-108;  pas- 
torals, 106;  marriage,  106;  missionary  to 
the  Indians,  106;  President,  College  of 
New  Jersey,  107;  death,  107;  influences 
upon,  107,  108,  1 10,  114;  his  "conver- 
sion," 107;  his  Treatise  Concerning  Re- 
ligious Affections,  107,  108;  A  Divine 
and  Supernatural  Light,  107;  concern 
with  psychological  bases  of  religion, 
108,  109;  on  church  membership,  108; 
God  Glorified  in  the  Work  of  Re- 
demption, 108;  and  the  Northampton 
revivalist  movement,  108;  Faithful  Nar- 
rative of  the  Surprising  Work  of  God, 
108;    and    the    Great    Awakening,    108; 


INDEX 


1125 


The  Distinguishing  Marks  of  a  Work 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  108;  Some 
Thoughts  Concerning  the  Present  Re- 
vival of  Religion  in  New  England,  108; 
essential  support  of  Puritanism,  109; 
''The  Justice  of  God  in  the  Damnation 
of  Sinners,"  109;  refutes  Arminiariism, 
109-110;  A  History  of  the  Work  of 
Redemption,  109,  in,  113,  116;  Careful 
and  Strict  Enquiry  into  the  Modern 
prevailing  Notions  of  That  Freedom  of 
the  Will . . .,  109,  1 10,  1 1 1 ;  Remarks  on 
the  Essays  on  the  Principles  of  Morality 
and  Religion,  no;  The  Nature  of  True 
Virtue,  no,  in;  Concerning  the  End 
for  which  God  created  the  world,  1 1 1 ; 
his  style,  112-116;  "The  Future  Punish- 
ment of  the  Wicked  Unavoidable  and 
Intolerable,"  n 2-1 13;  "On  Being,"  113; 
"The  Excellency  of  Christ,"  n  3-1 14; 
"Images  or  Shadows  of  Divine  Things," 
114-115;  imagery,  113-115;  Observations 
Concerning  the  Scripture  Oeconomy, 
115;  sense  of  mystery,  1 1 1 ,  115;  artistic 
importance,   11 5-1 16;   133,  570,  572,  944 

Edwin  and  Angelina,  204 

Edwin  Brothertoft,  570 

Edwy  and  Elgiva,  204 

Eggleston,  Edward,  575,  591,  * 646-648,  his 
dual  career,  646;  The  Hoosier  School- 
Master,  647,  648;  The  End  of  the 
World,  647;  The  Mystery  of  Metro po- 
lisville,  647;  The  Circuit  Rider,  647; 
Roxy,  647;  The  Gray  sons,  647;  The 
Faith  Doctor,  647;  The  Beginnings  of  a 
Nation,  647;  president,  American  His- 
torical Association,  647;  "Dan  Plue's 
Story,"  647;  influence,  647-648-,  663, 
702,  742,  775,  789 

Eichholz,  Jacob,  545 

"Eidolons,"  615 

Eight  Decades,  816 

Eighth  of  January,  The,  *47o,  501 

Eimi,  965 

Einstein,  Albert,  943 

Eisenhower,  Dwight  D.,  his  Crusade  in 
Europe,  981 

"Eldorado"  (Poe),  307 

El  Dorado   (Taylor),  355 

"Election  in  November,  The,"  451-452 

Electricity,  808 

"Elegy  on  John  Butler  Howells,"  674 

Elegy  on  the  Times,  An,  158 

"Eleonora,"  301-302 

Eliot,  George,  633,  635,  647,  690,  692, 
700,  742 

Eliot,  John,  60,  79 

Eliot,  Thomas  Stearns,  734,  788,  860,  861, 
867,  *873-877,  birth,  873;  education,  873; 
his  Prufrock  and  Other  Observations, 
874;  sources  of  influence,  874;  his 
method,  874;  imagery,  874-875;. "Geron- 
tion,"  875-876;  The  Waste  Land,  875, 
876-877;  "The  Hollow  Men,"  875,  877; 
his  critical  works,  The  Sacred  Wood, 
877,  Dante,   877,  Selected  Essays,  877; 


* 896-899,  Ash-Wednesday,  897;  journey 
of  the  Magi,  897;  A  Song  for  Simeon, 
897;  Animula,  897;  Marina,  897;  his  re- 
ligious dramas,  The  Rock,  897,  Murder 
in  the  Cathedral,  897,  The  Family  Re- 
union, 897;  Four  Quartets,  Burnt  Nor- 
ton, 898,  East  Coker,  898,  The  Dry 
Salvages,  898,  899,  Little  Gidding,  899; 
903,  963,  964,  966,  967,  968 

Elizabeth  the  Queen,  939 

Elizabethan  Drama,  902 

"Elk,  The,"  301,  304 

Ellis,  Havelock,  612,  617 

Elmer  Gantry,  744,  855 

"Eloquence,"  287 

Elsie  Venner,  364,  *372 

Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo,  on  Edwards,  115; 
on  Franklin,  119;  167,  211,  258,  relation 
to  Transcendentalism,  262,  264,  265,  let- 
ter to  George  Ripley,  265,  edits  the 
Dial,  266;  "Introductory  Address"  to 
Mass.  Quart.  Review,  269;  essay  on,  by 
Parker,  269-270;  on  Thoreau,  270;  271, 
274,  *276-29i,  birth,  276;  education,  276; 
resigns  pastorate,  276-277;  trip  to  Eu- 
rope, 277;  lectures,  277,  278;  letter  to 
J.  T.  Fields,  277;  to  Lidian,  278;  to 
William,  278;  Transcendental  period, 
278-285;  "The  Present  State  of  Ethical 
Philosophy,"  278;  essays,  "Nature,"  1st,* 
278,  2nd,  282;  "The  Transcendentalism" 
278;  Nature,  270-280,  281,  "Beauty,"  279, 
289,  "Language?7  279,  "Idealism,"  279, 
"Spirit,"  279-280;  The  Primal  Adind, 
280-282,  "The  Oversold,"  280,  "Self- 
Reliance,"  280,  284,  "Art,"  280,  "The 
Problem,"  280,  "The  World  Soul,"  280, 
"Xenophanes,"  280,  "The  Poet,"  280, 
282,  "Love,"  280,  The  Natural  History 
of  Intellect,  280,  288,  289,  "Each  and 
All,"    280,   "Goodbye,   Proud   World," 

280,  "The  Rhodora,"  280;  interest  in 
Oriental  philosophy,  280-284;  "Brahma," 

281,  "Immortality,"    28  m,    "Illusions," 

282,  "Compensation,"  jj^Unity  and 
Supremacy  of  Nature^287^3,  "Spirit- 
ual Laws,"  282,  "Threrto4yf  282,  "The 
Earth  Song,"  283;  "Daemonic  Love," 
284;  "Celestial  Love,"  284;  "Persian 
Poetry,"  284;  "Bacchus,"  284;  the  inde- 
pendence of  the  individual,  284-285, 
398,   "Character,"    284,   288,   "History," 

284,  "Manners,"  284,  "New  England 
Reformers,"  284;  Phi  Beta  Kappa  Ad- 
dress, "The  American  Scholar,"  284; 
"Uriel,"  285;  "Give  All  to  Love,"  285, 
286;  "Circles,"  285;  Essays,  First  Series, 

285,  290,  Second  Series,  285,  criticism 
of,  by  Brownson,  266-268;  Nature,  Ad- 
dresses, and  Lectures,  285;  Poems 
(1847),  285;  May -Day  and  Other 
Pieces,  285;  The  Conduct  of  Life,  285; 
Society  and  Solitude,  284,  285;  Letters 
and  Social  Aims,  284,  285;  his  poetic 
creed,  in  "Merlin,"  285-286;  Representa- 
tive Men,  286-287;  lecture  tour  to  Eng- 


1126 


INDEX 


Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo  {cont'd) 

land,  principal  topics,  287-288;  letter  to 
Lidian,  287-288;  English  Traits,  288;  his 
ideas  on  college  education,  288,  on  sci- 
ence, 288-290;  "Poetry  and  Imagina- 
tion," 289;  letter  to  Anne  C.  L.  Botta, 
289;  trip  to  California,  290;  third  visit 
abroad,  290;  Parnassus,  290;  death,  290; 
Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches, 
290;  translation  of  his  works,  290;  his 
consistency,  291;  293,  310,  318,  319-320, 
322,  324,  346,  352,  Holmes'  biography 
of,  364,  372-373;  374,  385,  397-408,  his 
critical  method  and  reading  habits,  397- 
$98;  "Art  and  Criticism,''  definition  of 
criticism,  398;  "The  American  Schol- 
ar," critical  standards,  398-399;  on  read- 
ing, 399-400,  his  lists  of  books,  399-400; 
his  Dial  essays,  "Thoughts  on  Modern 
Literature,"  400-401,  "Europe  and  Euro- 
pean Books,"  264,  400;  his  ability  at 
distinctions,  401;  preference  for  the  an- 
cients, 401;  on  slavery,  401;  on  poetry, 
401-402,  "The  Poet,"  401;  recognition 
of  the  symbol,  402;  later  criticism, 
"Quotation  and  Originality,"  402;  on 
drama,  402-403;  fiction,  403;  contem- 
porary Americans,  403-404;  Representa- 
tive Men,  "Shakspeare:  or,  The  Poet," 
404-405,  "Plato:  or,  The  Philosopher," 
405-406,  "Goethe:  or,  The  Writer," 
406-407,  "Montaigne:  or,  The  Skeptic," 
407;  "Literature,"  407;  "The  Man  of 
Letters,"  407;  "Historic  Notes  of  Life 
and  Letters  in  Massachusetts,"  407-408; 
"Plutarch,"  408;  on  Burns,  408;  on 
Scott,  408;  his  contribution  to  criticism, 
408;  409,  412,  relation  to  politics,  435- 
439;  444,  445>  464,  52o,  523,  534,  535,  540, 
542"543>  544.  56l»  566^  569>  57°.  574.  59 1, 
593,  605,  607,  608,  610,  612,  617,  620,  623, 
626,  633,  635,  649,  668,  674,  682,  690,  699, 
715,  724,  725,  727,  730,  735,  741,  771,  774, 
779,  789,  813,  814,  875,  900,  902 

"Emerson  the  Lecturer,"  278,  409,  413 

Emigrants,  The,  191 

Emmett,  "Dan,"  51 1 

Emperor  Jones,  The,  930,  931 

Empson,  William,  963 

"Encantadas:  or,  Enchanted  Isles,  The," 
246 

End  of  Sin  inner,  939 

End  of  the  World,  The,  647 

"Endymion,"  j8o 

England,  influence  of  on  American  liter- 
ature, 4,-,  46,  56,  81,  95-96,  99,  135,  186, 

lO<>,    [92,   266,    ^7,  J63-564,  570,  575,  623- 

624,  661,  676,  690-692,  845,  857,  860;  in- 
fluence of  American  writers  on,  132, 
[97,  229,  290,  J05,  $20-321,  44:,  613 

English,  I  homas  Dunn,  295,  593,  his  The 
War  mo  11s,   502 

"English  Literature  in  the  Nineteenth 
Century,"  527 

English  Notebooks,  ji6 

English    Traits,   286,    '288,    289,    ji8,    164, 


*407,  section  on  "Literature,"  407 

"English  Writers  on  America,"  215 

Enlightenment,  The,  90 

Enormous  Room,  The,  965 

Entertaining  Passages  Relating  to  Philip's 
War,  76 

"Ephemera,"  224 

Epic  of  Arkansas,  The,  863 

Equality,  768 

Errata,  221 

Esmeralda,  807 

Essay  for  the  Recording  of  Illustrious 
Providences,  An,  47-48 

Essay  on  the  Use  and  Advantages  of  the 
Fine  Arts,  An,  158 

Essay  upon  the  Government  of  the  Eng- 
lish Plantations,  on  the  Continent  of 
America  . .  .By  an  American,  An,  2$n, 
68n 

"Essay  Writing,"  385,  526 

Essays  (Emerson),  First  Series,  285,  290, 
406;  Second  Series,  285;  266-268,  435 

Essays  by  ]ames  Huneker,  858 

"Essence  of  Tragedy,  The,"  939 

Esteve,  Edmund,  336 

Esther,  785,  *786 

"Esther  Wynn's  Love-Letters,"  730 

Ethan  Fro?ne,  817,  dramatized,  817 

"Ethnogenesis,"  465,  572 

Eureka,  294-295 

"Europe,"  599,  603,  606 

Europe,  Continental,  influence  on  Ameri- 
can literature,  56,  87,  202-203,  2^6,  336- 
344,  471,  575,  623-624,  640,  661,  670, 
676,  681-700,  737,  738,  813-814,  857,  869, 
943,  945,  948,  963,  964,  975;  influence  of 
American  writers  on,  132-135,  147,  290, 
306,  321,  337,  344-345,  613,  941 

"Europe  and  European  Books,"  264,  400, 
401,  403 

European  Backgrounds  of  American  His- 
tory, 952 

Europeans,  The,  6gz 

Evald,  Johannes,  341 

Evangeline,  *  3  28-3  29,  sources,  328-329; 
metre  of,  329;  337,  341,  343,   344,   345, 

354,  4*7»  654 

Evans,  Lewis,  his  Geographical,  Histori- 
cal, Political,  Philosophical,  and  Me- 
chanical Essays,  134 

Eve  of  St.  Mark,  The,  938 

Evergreen  Tree,  The,  833 

Everybody's  Autobiography,  865 

Evolution,  773 

Evolution  of  Negro  Minstrelsy,  The,  773- 

774 
"Excellency  of  Christ,  The,"  113-114 
"Excelsior,"  344 
Excursions,  271 
Executiojier  Waits,  The,  957 
Exile,  The,  840 
Exile's  Return,  956 
Exordium,  389 

"Experiment  in  Misery,  An,"  759 
Extract  from  Captain  Stormfield's  Visit  to 

II cave  11,  * 7 1 5,  719 


INDEX 


1127 


Fable  for  Critics,  The,  375,  *4c>9-4io,  863 

Fables  for  the  Frivolous,  722 

Fables  in  Slang,  837 

"Faces,"  606 

"Facing  West  from  California's  Shores," 

616 
"Factitious  Life,"  261 
Factory-Bell:    And    Other    Poems,    The, 

765 
"Factory  Window  Song,  The,"  843 
"Facts  in  the  Case  of  M.  Valdemar,  The," 

302,  305 
Fair  God,  The,  ygi 
"Fairyland,"  298,  299 
Faith  Doctor,  The,  *6^j,  yy$n 
Faith  Healer,  The,  831-832 
Faithful    Narrative    Of    The    Surprising 

Work  of  God,  108 
"Falcon  of  Ser  Federigo,  The,"  341 
Fall  of  British  Tyranny,  The,  163 
Fall  of  the  City,  The,  971 
"Fall  of  the  House  of  Usher,  The,"  302, 

566 
"Falls  of  the  Ohio,  The,"  723 
"Family  Burying  Ground,  The,"  723 
Family  Reunion,  The,  897 
"Fanny,"  260 
Fanshawe,  328-329 

Farewell  Address  (Washington),  178 
"Farewell  Address  at  Springfield,  Illinois," 

574 

"Farewell  of  a  Virginia  Slave  Mother, 
The,"  355 

"Farewell  Once  More,"  495 

Farewell  to  Arms,  A,  883 

Farm  Ballads,  637 

Farmer  Refuted,  The,  150 

Farmer  Takes  a  Wife,  The,  890 

Farmers'  Museum,  199 

Farquhar,  George,  161 

Farrell,  J.  T.,  his  Studs  Lonigan  trilogy, 
85  r ;  A  World  I  Never  Made,  85 1 ;  Gas- 
House  McGinty,  851;  his  intention  and 
method,  851;  his  Note  on  Literary 
Criticism,  956 

Fashion,  Poe's  review  of,  391;  505,  *5o6, 
508 

Fashions  in  Literature,  706 

Fast  Folks:  or,  Early  Days  of  California, 
502 

Fatal  Deception:  or,  The  Progress  of 
Guilt,  The,  see  Leicester 

Fatal  Interview,  894 

Fatal  Weakness,  The,  856 

Fate  of  the  Jury,  The,  870 

Father:    or    American    Shandyism,    The, 

*200-20I,    203 

Father  Bombo's  Pilgrimage,  165 

Father  of  an  Only  Child,  The,  see  Father: 
or  American  Shandyism.,  The 

Fathers,  The,  923 

Faulkner,  William,  *  884-885,  early  expe- 
riences, 884;  his  Soldier's  Pay,  884;  Py- 
lon, 884;  Sartor  is,  884;  The  Unvan- 
quished,  884;  The  Sound  and  the  Fury, 
884;  Absalom,  Absalom!  884;  Sanctuary, 


884;    Light   in    August,    884-885;    The 
Hamlet,  885;  the  Gothic  element  in  his 
work,  885;  his  artistry,  885;  886,  912 
Faust,  translation  of,  by  Bayard  Taylor, 

355 

Fearful  Responsibility,  A,  670 

Fearing,  Kenneth,  972 

Federalist,  The,  *  180-182,  the  identity  of 
"Publius,"  180;  their  claim  as  literature, 
180;  disputed  authorship  of,  181;  Paper 
Number  X,  181;  Paper  Number  XIV, 
182;  translations  of,  182 

Felton,  Cornelius,  325 

Ferber,  Edna,  her  Cimarron,  891 

Fervent  Years,  The,  961 

"Feud,  The,"  723 

Feud  of  Oakfield  Creek,  The,  945 

Few  Figs  from  Thistles,  A,  894 

Fichte,  Johann,  945 

Field,  Eugene,  his  use  of  dialect,  703; 
722 

Field  God,  The,  921 

"Field  of  the  Grounded  Arms,  The,"  261 

Fielding,  Henry,   195 

Fields,  The,  892 

"Fifty  Grand,"  883 

"Fight,  The,"  236 

Fighting  Angel,  840 

"Figure  in  the  Carpet,  The,"  695 

Figures  of  Transition,  956 

Filicaja,  Vincenzo  da,  340 

Financier,  The,  848-840,  850 

Finn,  Henry  J.,  his  Removing  the  De- 
posits, 501 

"Fire  of  Driftwood,  The,"  317 

Fireside  Travels,  381-382 

"Firmament,  The,"  251 

First  American  law  on  international  copy- 
right, 796 

First  American  play  produced  profession- 
ally, 161 

First  Book  for  Children,  A,  125 

First  book  printed  in  America,  60 

"First  Client,  The,"  375 

First  copyright  law  protecting  play- 
wrights, 512 

First  Encounter,  880 

First  Families  of  the  Sierras,  630 

First  learned  society,  116 

First  Legion,  The,  940 

First  magazine  in  America,  97 

First  Man,  The,  930 

First  medical  society,  88 

First  newspaper  in  America,  95 

First  novel,  190 

First  poets  of  importance,  57-58,  62-65 

First  scientific  society,  88 

First  sonnet,  189 

Fisher,  Dorothy  Canfield,  her  Gunhild, 
911;  The  Squirrel  Cage,  911;  The  Bent 
Twig,  911;  The  Brimming  Cup,  911; 
Rough  Hewn,  911;  Her  Son's  Wife, 
911;  The  Deepening  Stream,  911;  Bon- 
fire, 911-912;  Seasoned  Timber,  912; 
Hillsboro  People,  912 

Fisher?narfs  Luck,  726 


1 128 


INDEX 


Fiske,  John,  576,  his  Outlines  of  Cosmic 
Philosophy,  773;  778 

Fiske  Jubilee  Singers,  587 

Fitch,  William  Clyde,  202,  757,  798,  799, 
801,  823-824,  his  Beau  Brummell,  824 
Nathan  Hale,  824;  Major  Andre,  824 
The  Girl  with  the  Green  Eyes,  824 
The  Truth,  824;  The  Climbers,  824 
The  Woman  in  the  Case,  824;  The  City, 
824;  941 

"Fitz  Adam's  Story,1'  377 

Fitzgerald,  F.  Scott,  * 888-889,  articulator 
of  the  Jazz  Age,  888;  his  This  Side  of 
Paradise,  888;  Flappers  and  Philosophers, 
888;  Tales  of  the  Jazz  Age,  888;  The 
Beautiful  and  Damned,  888;  The  Vege- 
table, 888;  The  Great  Gatsby,  888;  All 
the  Sad  Young  Men,  888;  Tender  is  the 
Night,  888;  Taps  at  Reveille,  888-889; 
The  -Last  Tycoon,  889;  his  testing  of 
life,  889;  965,  974,  980 

"Five  Lives,"  724 

Fixings,  921 

Flame  and  Shadow,  893 

"Flammonde,"  305,  820 

Flanagan,  Hallie,  979 

Flappers  and  Philosophers,  888 

Flaubert,  Gustave,  658,  670,  691,  699,  700, 

74^1  755 
Flavin,  Martin,  his  Children  of  the  Moon, 

939;  The  Criminal  Code,  939 
Fleming,  .May  A.,  591 
Fletcher,    John,    his   Studies   on   Slavery, 

Fletcher,  John  Gould,  863-864 

Flight  to  the  West,  The,  962 

Flint,  Timothy,  his  Francis  Berrian:  or, 

The  Mexican  Patriot,  235 
"Flood  of  Years,  The,"  * 254-255,  256 
Flower,  B.  O.,  804 
Flower-de-luce,  345 
Flowering  Earth,  893 
Flowering  Judas,  925 
Flynn,  Thomas,  509 
Folklore,  sec  Allied  Arts 
Folks  from  Dixie,  657 
Folkways,  9^0 
Following  the  Equator,  716 
Fontainville  Abbey,  201 
FooVs  Errand,  A,  '765,  dramatized,  791 
"Fool's  Prayer,  The,"  724 
Foote,   Ahiry   Hallock,  645-646,  her  The 

Led-Horse  Claim,  645;  John  BodewvrCs 

Testimony,  646 
For  Whom  the  Bell  Tolls,  SS3-884 
Forces  in  American  Criticism,  956 
Ford,    P.    L.,    his    Janice    Meredith,    730; 

858 
Foregone  Conclusion,  A,  669,  dramatized, 

798 
lore st,    The,   892 
"Forest  I  hum.    The,"  250 
Forest  Princess,  The,  485,  *499 
Forest  Rose,  'Fhc,  503 
Forge,  'Fhc,  018 
F  irgues,  K.  I).,  ^06 


Forrest,  Edwin,  466,  *468-469,  stimulates 
native  playwrights,  468-469;  471,  The 
Gladiator  written  for,  475;  in  London, 
477;  performs  Oralloossa,  478;  The 
Broker  of  Bogota  written  for,  478;  let- 
ter to  Bird,  479;  performs  Broker 
abroad,  479-480;  financial  fraud  against 
Bird,  480-481;  486,  and  John  Augustus 
Stone,  498;  510,  512 

"Forsaken,"  translation  of,  by  Longfellow, 

343 

Fortune  Hunter,  The,  506 

Forty  Years  of  Psychic  Research,  650 

42nd  Parallel,  The,  881 

Forward  the  Nation,  893 

Foscari:  or,  The  Venetian  Exile,  210 

Foster,  Hannah,  her  The  Coquette,  192 

Foster,  Stephen  Collins,  535,  549,  565,  636 

Fountain,  The,  930 

"Fountain  of  Trevi,  The,"  357 

Fountain  Sealed,  A,  819 

Four  Million,  The,  837-838 

Four  Quartets,  89611,  898-899,  968-969 

Four  Sahits  in  Three  Acts,  866 

Fourth  of  July  Oration  before  the  Citi- 
zens of  the  District  of  Columbia,  189 

"Fragment  from  Simonides,  The,"  250 

"France  and  England  in  North  America," 
781-782 

"France,  The  18th  Year  of  these  States," 

599 
Franc esca  da  Rimini,  490-494,  casts,  491; 
the  theme,  491-492;  historical  sources, 
491-492;  Boker's  the  first  play  in  Eng- 
lish, 492;  compared  with  other  treat- 
ments, 492;  the  printed  version,  493-494; 

511, 
Francis,  Convers,  264 

Francis  Berrian:  or,  The  Mexican  Patriot, 

235 

Frank,  Waldo,  his  The  Re-Discovery  of 
America,  956 

Franklin,  Benjamin,  87,  91,  93,  96,  his 
General  Magazine  and  Historical 
Chronicle,  97;  100,  contrasted  with  Ed- 
wards, 106,  1 18,  1 19;  *i  16-123,  birth,  1 16; 
printer's  apprenticeship,  116;  The  Penn- 
sylvania Gazette,  116;  Poor  Richard's 
Almanac  begun,  116;  postmaster  of 
Philadelphia,  116;  founds  library,  fire 
company,  hospital,  school,  American 
Philosophical  Society,  116;  contribu- 
tions, civic,  to  statesmanship,  scientific, 
political,  economic,  literary,  116-117; 
elected  to  Royal  Society  of  London, 
116;  his  Proposals  Relating  to  the  Edu- 
cation of  Youth  in  Pensilvania,  u6n; 
Idea  of  the  English  School . . .  for  the 
. . .  Philadelphia  Academy,  116;  Autobi- 
ography, 117,  120;  attitude  toward  re- 
ligion, 117;  Articles  of  Belief  and  Acts 
of  Religion,  11711;  toward  Puritanism, 
1 17-1 18;  his  maxims,  118;  on  truth  and 
virtue,  118;  as  hero  and  prophet,  118- 
120;  "To  the  Royal  Academy  of  Brus- 
sels," 119;  "Advice  to  a  Young  Alan  on 


INDEX 


1 1 29 


the  Choice  of  a  Mistress,"  119;  on 
music,  119;  on  education,  119;  on  sci- 
ence, 119;  Emerson's  estimate  of,  119; 
literary  skill  and  attention  to  his  audi- 
ence, 120-12 1 ;  political  satires,  "Edict 
by  the  King  of  Prussia,"  121,  "Rules  by 
Which  a  Great  Empire  May  be  Re- 
duced to  a  Small  One,"  121;  Bagatelles, 
letter  to  Mme.  Helvetius,  121;  aphor- 
isms, 121;  "Drinker's  Dictionary,"  121- 
122;  letter  to  Abbe  Morellet,  122;  seri- 
ous application  of  the  aphorism,  122;  127, 
128,  130,  132,  133,  151,  154,  179,  180,  184, 
193,  219,  400,  411,  500,  523,  524,  538,  666, 

7*h  777 

Franklin,  James,  96,  116 

Franklin  Evans  or  the  Inebriate,  603 

Frazee,  John,  556 

Frederic,  Harold  (Harold  Henry  Fred- 
ericks), *742-746,  edits  Utica  Observer, 
742;  Albany  Evening  journal,  742;  with 
New  York  Times,  742;  Seth's  Brother's 
Wife,  743;  In  the  Valley,  743;  The 
Lawton  Girl,  744;  The  Return  of  the 
O'Mahoney,  744;  The  Copperhead, 
744;  "The  War  Widow,"  744;  The 
Damnation  of  Theron  Ware,  744-745-, 
March  Hares,  745;  749,  753,  758,  770; 
Gloria  Mundi,  770m,  802 

Free,  and  Other  Stories,  849 

Free  Joe  and  Other  Georgian  Sketches, 
656 

Free  Man,  The,  892 

Free  Thoughts  on  the  Proceedings  of  the 
Continental  Cojigress,  149 

"Free  Trade,  Free  Soil,  Free  Men,"  765 

Freedom  and  Culture,  949 

Freeman,  Douglas  S.,  953 

Freeman,  Joseph,  his  American  Testa- 
ment, 956;  spokesman  for  the  left-wing 
propagandists,  058 

Freeman,  Mary  Wilkins,  641,  657-658,  659, 
her  A  Humble  Romance  and  Other 
Stories,  659;  A  New  England  Nun,  659; 
Silence  and  Other  Stories,  659;  The 
Heart's  Highway,  659;  The  Portion  of 
Labor,  659;  Pembroke,  659;  660,  739, 
805,  806 

Freiligrath,  Ferdinand,  339 

Frelinghuysen,  Theodore,  102 

French,  Daniel  Chester,  582-583,  "The 
Minute  Man,"  582;  portrait  statues,  582- 
583;  "Death  and  the  Young  Warrior," 
582 

French  and  Indian  War,  98 

French  Art,  815 

French  Notebooks,  433 

French  Poets  and  Novelists,  699 

French  Revolution,  134,  152,  166,  188, 
430,  487,  816 

French  Symbolist  Movement,  The,  306, 
624,  684,  724,  857,  874,  964,  969,  970 

French  Traits,  815 

"French  Village,  The,"  236 

Freneau,  Philip,  *i  65-171,  effect  of  politi- 
cal unrest  upon,  165,  166-167;  birth,  165; 


education,  165;  Father  Bombo's  Pil- 
grimage, 165;  "The  Rising  Glory  of 
America,"  165;  "The  Power  of  Fancy," 
165;  early  political  activities,  165;  sea 
voyages,  165-166;  writes  for  United 
States  Magazine,  165-166;  "The  British 
Prison  Ship,"  166,  169;  edits  Freeman's 
Journal,  166;  service  in  State  Depart- 
ment, 166;  edits  National  Gazette,  166; 
Poems  (1786),  166;  Poe?ns  (1788),  166; 
Poems  (collected  ed.,  1795),  166;  politi- 
cal and  religious  principles,  167;  poetic- 
diction,  167-168;  form,  168;  satirical  and 
political  poems,  168,  169-170;  "On  the 
Fall  of  General  Earl  Cornwallis,"  170; 
"The  Beauties  of  Santa  Cruz,"  170;  "To 
a  Catydid,"  170;  "On  a  Honey  Bee," 
170;  his  heritage  and  contribution,  171; 

J77>   !93'  38<^  537 
Frescoes  for  Mr.  Rockefeller's  City,  867 
Freud,  Sigmund,  866,  943,  964,  982 
Friar  Jerome's  Beautiful  Book,  625-626 
"Friend  Eli's  Daughter,"  358 
Friendly  Club,  158,  193 
Friends,  Society  of,  15,  26,  30-31,  41,  69, 

76,  78,  87,  89,  90,  98,  124-125,  129,  133, 

139,    161,    193,   221,   347,   351,   355,   358, 

445,  555,  605,  629,  849 
Friendship  Village,  870 
Froissart,  Jean,  305,  336,  635,  750 
"From  Noon  to  Starry  Night,"  619 
"From  the  Spanish  of  Luis  de  Gongora," 

337. 

Frontier,  the,  treatment  of  in  literature, 
19,  32,  192,  226,  228-230,  235-236,  241, 
710,  840,  890;  the  two  frontiers,  211 

Frost,  Robert,  305,  328,  344,  380,  *903- 
907,  birth,  903;  education,  903;  mar- 
riage, 903;  trip  to  England,  903;  char- 
acteristics of  his  poetry,  903-904;  A 
Boy's  Will,  904;  North  of  Boston,  904; 
Mountain  Interval,  904;  New  Hamp- 
shire, 904;  W est-Rumiing  Brook,  904- 
905;  A  Further  Range,  905-906;  Steeple 
Bush,  906;  his  prose  play,  A  Way  Out, 
906;  verse  plays,  A  Masque  of  Reason, 
906,  A  Masque  of  Mercy,  906;  critical 
expressions,  "Education  by  Poetry," 
906,  Introduction  to  Robinson's  King 
Jasper,  906;  971 

Frothingham,  Nathaniel,  262 

Froude,  J.  A.,  290 

Fruitlands,  273 

Fugitive  group,  922,  924 

Full  Vindication  of  the  Measures  of  the 
Congress,  A,  150 

Fuller,  Henry  Blake,  *746-749,  education, 
746;  his  published  travel  letters,  746; 
periodical  writing,  746;  "A  Transcon- 
tinental Episode,"  747;  The  Chevalier 
of  Pensieri-Vani,  747;  The  Chatelaine 
of  La  Trinite,  747;  The  Last  Refuge, 
747;  Gardens  of  This  World,  747;  The 
Cliff -Dwellers,  747-748;  With  the  Pro- 
cession, 748;  Under  the  Skylights,  748; 
The    Puppet-Booth,    748;     The    New 


1 130 


INDEX 


Fuller,  Henry  Blake   (cont'd) 

Flag,  748;  Lines  Long  and  Short,  748- 
749;  On  the  Stairs,  749;  Bertram  Cope's 
Year,  749;  "At  St.  Judas's,"  749;  Not 
on  the  Screen,  749 

Fuller,  .Margaret,  264,  265,  266,  271,  274, 
letter  to  W.  H.  Charming,  274;  to 
Emerson,  274;  edits  the  Dial,  17$;  criti- 
cal works,  "Goethe,"  274,  on  her  con- 
temporaries, 274;  409,  421,  542 

Fuller,  Thomas,  influence  on  Cotton 
Mather,  81 

Fulton,  Robert,  546 

"Function  of  the  Poet,  The,"  417 

"Furnished  Room,  The,"  838 

Further  Range,  A,  905 

"Future  Punishment  of  the  Wicked  Un- 
avoidable and  Intolerable,"   11 2-1 13 


Gaboriau,  Emile,  306 

Gabriel  Conroy,  *6^,  dramatized,  791 

"Gabrielle  de  Bergerac,"  693 

Gadsden,  Christopher,  86-87 

"Galaxy,  The,"  335 

Galdos,  Perez,  670,  676 

Gale,  Zona,  855,  * 870-871,  her  Romance 
Island,  870;  The  Loves  of  Pelleas  and 
Ettare,  870;  Friendship  Village,  870; 
Birth,  dramatized  as  Mr.  Pitt,  870;  Miss 
Lulu  Bett,  870-871 

Gallegher  and  Other  Stories,  760 

Galloway,  Joseph,   145 

Gardens  of  this  World,  747,  749 

Gardiner,  W.  H.,  387 

Garland,  Hamlin,  635^  638,  640,  645, 
•648-651,  influences  upon,  648-649;  crit- 
ical essays,  Crumbling  Idols,  649;  turns 
to  fiction,  640;  Rose  of  Dutcher's 
Coolly,  649;  Main-Travelled  Roads,  649; 
Prairie  Folks,  649;  Wayside  Courtships, 
649;  his  realism,  649-650;  The  Captain 
of  the  Gray-Horse  Troop,  650;  Forty 
Years  of  Psychic  Research,  650;  A  Son 
of  the  Middle  Border,  650;  Roadside 
Meetings,  650-651;  Companions  on  the 
Trail,  650-65 1 ;  My  Friendly  Contempo- 
raries, 650-651;  Afternoon  Neighbors, 
650-651;  travels  to  the  East  and  Europe, 
651;  659,  666,  674,  676,  678,  740,  746, 
748,  756,  764.  767,  775.  804,  805, 
869 

Garrison,  William  Lloyd,  348,  443,  460 

Gas-House  McG'uity,  851 

( iares,  Lewis  K.,  751 

Gautier,  Theophile,  686,  741 

Gay,  H.  S.,  his  A  Popular  History  of  the 
United  States,  42 S 

( lay,  John,   161 

( reibel,  Emanuel,  624 

General  History  of  New  England,  77 

General  Idea  of  the  College  of  Mirauia, 
98 

"General  McClellan's  Report,"  452 

"General  William  Booth  Enters  into 
I  leaven,"  841 


Generall  Historie  of  Virginia,  New  Eng- 
land, and  the  Summer  Isles,  The,  18, 
19,  *67 

'Genius',  The,  849 

Genius  of  Style,  The,  815 

Genteel  Tradition  at  Bay,  The,  948 

Gentle  People,  The,  962 

Gentle  Reader,  The,  816 

Gentleman  from  Indiana,  The,  838-839 

"Gentleman  of  Virginia,"  54 

Gentleman's  Progress:  The  ltinerariu?n  of 
Dr.  Alexander  Hamilton,  103-105 

Geographical,  Historical,  Political,  Philo- 
sophical, and  Mechanical  Essays,  134 

Geography  and  Plays,  866 

George,  Henry,  * 766-767,  his  Progress 
and  Poverty,  766;  Our  Land  and  Land 
Policy,  766;  economic  theories,  766-767; 
770,  804 

George's  Mother,  756 

Georgia  Scenes,  236,  885 

Georgia  Sketches,  see  Dukesborough 
Tales 

Georgia  Spec:  or,  Land  in  the  Moon,  199 

"Gerontion,"  875,  876 

Gershwin,  George,  918 

Gettysburg  Address,  The,  524,  573-574 

"Ghosts  of  the  Buffaloes,  The,"  842 

Giants  in  the  Earth,  912 

Gibbon,  Edward,  399,  400 

"Gift  of  the  Magi,  The,"  838 

Gilbert,  Mrs.  G.  H.,  801 

Gilded  Age,  The,  705,  706,  *7 16,  806 

Gilder,  Richard  Watson,  editor,  The 
Century  Illustrated  Monthly,  594 

Giles  Corey  of  the  Salem  Farms,  332-333 

Gillette,  William  H.,  799,  801,  * 806-808, 
acting  experience  and  education,  806; 
The  Professor,  806-807;  Esmeralda,  807; 
She,  807;  Robert  Elsmere,  807;  Sherlock 
Holmes,  807;  adaptations  from  French 
and  German,  807;  Held  by  the  Enemy, 
807;  Secret  Service,  807-808;  Electricity, 
808 

Girl  with  the  Green  Eyes,  The,  824 

"Give  All  to  Love,"  285,  286 

Gladiator,  The,  469,  472,  *475~477,  478, 
480,  481,  486 

Glance  at  New  York,  A,  504,  505 

"Glance  behind  the  Curtain,  A,"  375 

Glasgow,  Ellen,  660,  66^,  740,  772n,  *9i5- 
917,  her  recognition  of  reality,  915;  her 
The  Deliverance,  915-916;  The  Voice 
of  the  People,  916;  The  Romance  of  a 
Plain  Man,  916;  The  Miller  of  Old 
Church,  916;  Virginia,  916;  Life  and 
Gabriella,  gi6;The  Builders,  916;  One 
Man  and  His  Time,  916;  Barren 
Ground,  916-917;  The  Romantic  Co- 
medians, 917;  They  Stooped  to  Folly, 
917;  The  Sheltered  Life,  917;  charac- 
teristics of  her  social  comedy,  917; 
Vein  of  Iron,  917;  In  This  Our  Life, 
917;  A  Certain  Measure,  917;  918 

Glass  Menagerie,  The,  939 

Glaucus,  494-495 


INDEX 


1131 


Gleanings  in  Europe,  233-234 

Glimpses  of  Unfamiliar  japan,  687 

Gloria  Mundi,  77011 

Glory  of  Columbia,  The,  see  Andre 

"Gloucester  Moors,"  826 

"Gnosis,"  274 

Goblins  and  Pagodas,  863 

God  Glorified  in  the  Work  of  Redemp- 
tion, 108 

God  Without  Thunder,  923 

Godfrey,  Thomas,  his  Juvenile  Poems  on 
Various  Subjects,  55,  1630;  99,  his  The 
Prince  of  Parthia,  161,  162 

"Gods  Controversy  with  New  England," 
61 

God's  Little  Acre,  886 

Gods  of  the  Lightning,  938 

Gods  Protecting  Providence,  78 

God's  Trombones,  919-920 

Godwin,  Parke,  268,  451 

Godwin,    William,    191,    his    Mandeville, 

195 
Goethe,  J.  W.  von,  5,  134,  197,  265,  274, 

287,  343,  358,  398,  399,  4»o,  403,  406- 
407,  417,  418,  420,  520,  652,  841 

"Goethe:  or,  the  Writer,"  406-407 

"Goin'  Back,"  657 

Gold,  930 

Gold,  Michael,  his  120  Millions,  958;  Jews 
Without  Money,  958 

"Gold  Bug,  The,"  294,  301,  303,  304,  566 

Goldau:   or,  The  Maniac  Harper,   221 

Golden  Bowl,  The,  696-697 

Golden  Boy,  961 

Golden  Calf:  or,  Marriage  a  la  Mode, 
The,  508 

Golden  Legend,  The,  *332,  343 

Goldsmith,  Oliver,  186,  212,  219,  399,  421, 
517,  666,  708 

Gone  with  the  Wind,  573,  974 

Good  Earth,  The,  840 

Good  Gray  Poet,  The,  611 

"Good  Word  for  Winter,  A,"  383 

"Good-Bye  My  Fancy,"  615,  620 

"Goodbye,  Proud  World,"  280 

Gookin,  Daniel,  79-80,  his  An  Historical 
Account  of  the  Doings  and  Sufferings 
of  the  Christian  Indians  in  New  Eng- 
land, 80;  Historical  Collections  of  the 
Indians  in  New  England,  80;  133 

Gordian  Knot,  The,  210 

Gosse,  Edmund,  692,  723 

Gow,  James,  941 

Grammar  of  Science,  The,  783 

Grandissimes,  The,  653 

Grandmothers,  The,  871 

"Grandmother's  Story  of  Bunker  Hill," 

37i 
Grant,  Robert,  769 

Grant,  Ulysses  S.,  Personal  Memoirs,  590 
Grapes  of  Wrath,  The,  679,  960 
Gray,  Thomas,  99,  420,  421 
"Gray  Champion,  The,"  311 
"Grayling:  or,  Murder  Will  Out,"  239 
"Grayson,  David,"  see  Baker,  Ray  Stan- 

nard 


Grayson,  William  J.,  his  The  Hireling 
and  the  Slave,  463 

Graysons,  The,  647 

Great  Adventure,  The,  727 

"Great  Are  the  Myths,"  606 

Great  Divide,  The,  831,  927 

Great  Gatsby,  The,  888* 

Great  God  Brown,  The,  930,  932 

Great  Meadow,  The,  918 

Great  South,  The,  653 

Great  Tradition,  The,  956 

Great  Writers,  725 

Greek  Tradition,  The,  896 

Greeley,  Horace,  268 

Green,  Paul,  his  The  Last  of  the  Lowries, 
921;  Lonesome  Road,  921;  hi  Abra- 
ham's Bosom,  921;  Fixin's,  921;  The 
Field  God,  921;  The  House  of  Con- 
nelly, 921;  The  Lost  Colony,  921;  The 
Common  Glory,  921;  941 

Green  Bay  Tree,  The,  840 

Green  Grow  the  Lilacs,  921 

Green  Laurels,  893 

Green  Pastures,  The,  919,  939 

"Green  River,"  250 

Greene,  Nathaniel,  biography  of,  by 
Simms,  241 

Greenfield  Hill,  187 

Greenough,  Horatio,  534,  542,  his  prin- 
ciple of  the  functional  artistic  purpose, 

556-557 
Gregory,  Horace,  958 
"Griffin    and    the    Minor    Canon,    The," 

707 
Griffith  Davenport,  806 
Grimm,  Hermann,  340 
Griswold,   Rufus  W.,   224,   292,    295-296, 

393",  394,  42I»  727 
Ground  We  Stand  On,  The,  882 
Group,  The,  167, 
Guardian  Angel,  The,  364,  *372 
Guest,  Edgar,  A.,  638 
Guggenheim  Fellowship,  974 
Guiney,  Louise  Imogen,  728,  her  Happy 

Ending,  728-729 
Gullible's  Travels,  879-880 
Gulzara:  or,  the  Persian  Slave,  505 
Gunhild,  911 
Guy  Domville,  695 
Guy  Rivers,  240-241,  243 


"H.  D.,  Imagiste,"  see  Doolittle,  Hilda 
"H.  H.,"  see  Jackson,  Helen  Hunt 
Habberton,  John,  his  Helen's  Babies,  590, 

704 
Hacienda,  925 
Hackett,  James  H.,  468,  469,  success  in 

native  drama,  469;  Lion  of  the   West 

written  for,  503 
Hafiz,  Shams,  284,  624 
Haggard,   Rider,    She,   dramatization    of, 

807 
"Hail  Columbia!"  186,  189 
Hairy  Ape,  The,  930,  931-932 


II32 


INDEX 


Hale.  Edward  Everett,  his  "The  Man 
without  a  Country,"  570;  "My  Double, 
and  How  He  Undid  Me,"  570;  768 

Hale,  Sarah  ].,  editor,  Godey's  Lady's 
Book,  461;  Northwood,  461;  Liberia: 
or,  Mr.  Peytonls  Experiment,  461 

Half-Century  of  Conflict,  A,  781 

Hall,  lames,  *235-236,  his  The  Illinois 
Monthly  Magazine,  235;  Legends  of  the 
West,  235-236;  The  Soldier's  Bride, 
236;  Tales  of  the  Border,  236;  "The 
Pioneer,"  236;  The  Western  Souvenir, 
236;  77.v  Wilderness  and  the  War  Path, 
22.6;  Harpe's  Head,  236;  History,  Life, 
and  Manners  in  the  West,  236;  243, 
646 

//.?//  of  Fantasy,  375 

Halleck,  Fitz-Greene,  233,  258,  *26o-26i, 
birth,  260;  publishes  satirical  verses, 
260;  "Fanny,"  260;  "On  the  Death  of 
Joseph  Rodman  Drake,"  260;  trip  to 
Europe,  26c;  "Marco  Bozzaris,"  260; 
"Wyoming,"  260;  "Burns,"  261;  "The 
Field  of  the  Grounded  Arms,"  261; 
"Redjacket,"  261;  356,  361,  386,  387, 
388,  393,  537,  538,  549 

I  lalper,  Albert,  957 

Hamilton,  Alexander,  150,  166,  178,  179, 
1  So,  181,  frames  plan  of  The  Federalist, 
[82;  defence  of  the  Constitution,  182; 
"Pacificus,"    "Americanus"   essays,    182, 

[83,  4^4<  524 

I  lamilton,  Dr.  Alexander,  his  Gentle- 
man" s  Progress:  The  Itinerarium  of  Dr. 
Alexander  Hamilton,  1744,  103-105 

1  lamilton  College,  706 

Hamlet,  The,  885 

Hamlet  of  A.  MacLeish,  The,  867 

Hammond,  John,  his  Leah  and  Rachel: 
or,  the  Two  Fruitfull  Sisters  Virginia 
and  Mary-land,  23 

I  lampden,  Walter,  497 

"Hanging  of  the  Crane,  The,"  345 

Hannah  Thurston,  357 

"I  [ans  Breitmann's  Barty,"  636 

"I  [ans  Phaal,"  503 

I  [apgood,  Norman,  796 

Happiness  of  America,  The,  189 

Happy  Ending,  728-729 

I  larby,  Isaac,  his  The  Gordian  Knot, 
210;  Alberti,  210 

I  farding,  Chester,  544 

I  lardy,    Thomas,  640,  661,  676,  698,  820 

I  larland,  I  lenry,  700 

/  la,  monium,  069 

Harpers  Head,  :}6 

I  larrigan,  Edward,  playwright  of  the 
foreign  race  elements,  798-799;  The 
Mulligan  Guard  Cycle,  799 

I  [arris,  Joel  Chandler,  575,  638,  652,  *6$s- 
656,  newspaper  work',  655;  contributes 
to  periodicals,  655;  Uncle  Remits:  His 
Songs  and  Sayings,  655;  Nights  with 
Uncle  Remits,  655;  Uncle  Remits  and 
His-  Friends,  655-656;  Mingo  and  Other 
Sketches    in    Black    and     White,    656; 


Free  Joe  and  Other  Georgia?!  Sketches, 
656;  660,  702 

Hart,  Moss,  You  Can't  Take  It  With 
You,  939;  The  Man  Who  Came  to 
Dinner,  939;  Lady  in  the  Dark,  939; 
Winged  Victory,  939;  Christopher 
Blake,  939 

Hart,  Tony,  798 

Hart,  William  S.,  792 

Harte,  Francis  Brett  (Bret),  244,  344,  575, 
576,  591,  593,  629,  630,  632,  636,  his 
"Plain  Language  from  Truthful  James," 
637;  640,  *642-645,  birth,  642;  educa- 
tion, 642;  Condensed  Novels,  643;  The 
Lost  Galleon  and  Other  Tales,  643; 
"M'liss,"  643;  "The  Luck  of  Roaring- 
Camp,"  643;  edits  Overland  Monthly, 
643;  recognition  as  a  humorist,  643; 
diplomatic  service,  643;  Gabriel  Con- 
roy,  644;  his  verse,  644;  later  tales,  644- 
645;  influence,  645;  647,  649,  658,  662n, 
668,  678,  684,  702,  712,  716,  739,  759, 
761,  762,  791,  797,  799-800,  his  Sue,  800 

Hartford  Wits,  see  Connecticut  Wits 

"Harvard  Commemoration  Ode,"  see 
"Ode  Recited  at  the  Commemoration 
of  the  Living  and  Dead  Soldiers  of 
Harvard  University" 

Harvard  University,  founding  of,  15,  37; 
Increase  A^ather  president  of,  48;  57, 
61,  93,  139-140,  142,  198,  270,  276,  288, 

309,  324,  325^  343,  344,  349,  356,  361, 

362,  363,  370,  374,  376,  382,  383,  520, 

525,  526,  530,  539,  546,  579,  582,  585, 

587,  623,  666,  684,  690,  725,  726,  727, 

751,  772,  773,  780,  784,  820,  826,  830, 

832,  867,  873,  880,  895,  902,  903,  924, 

928,  943,  944,  947,  948,  949,  965,  969, 

979 

Harvest  Moon,  The,  823 

Harvey,  941 

"Hassan  to  his  Mare,"  356 

Hasty  Pudding,  188,  548 

"Haunted  Palace,  The,"  292,  294,  296, 
299,  * 300-30 1,  394 

Hawks  of  Hawk-Hollow:  A  Tradition  of 
Pennsylvania,  *it,%,  481 

Hawthorne,  Nathaniel,  36n,  115,  195,  237, 
244,  263,  265,  269,  *3o8-32i,  birth,  308; 
education,  308;  letter  to  his  mother, 
308;  his  Fanshavoe,  308-309,  early  stories 
and  sketches,  309,  edits  The  American 
Magazine  of  Useful  and  Entertaining 
Knowledge,  309;  Twice  Told  Tales 
(1837,  1842),  309;  appointed  Weigher 
in  the  Boston  Custom  House,  310;  his 
stay  at  Brook  Farm,  310;  letters  to 
George  Hillard,  310;  Mosses  from  an 
Old  Manse,  310;  The  Snow  Image  and 
Other  Twice  Told  Tales,  310;  his  short 
stories,  311;  Surveyor  of  the  Custom 
House,  Salem,  311;  The  Scarlet  Letter, 
*3 1 1-3 1 3,  his  treatment  of  the  super- 
natural, 3 1 1-3 13;  The  House  of  the 
Seven  Gables,  313-315;  A  Wonder 
Book,    315;     Tanglewood    Tales,    315; 


INDEX 


3  3 


The  Blithedale  Romance,  315;  Ameri- 
can Notebooks,  315;  appointed  Consul 
at  Liverpool,  316;  English  Notebooks, 
316;  visit  to  Italy,  316;  Italian  Note- 
books, 316;  letter  to  J.  T.  Fields,  316; 
The  Marble  Faun,  316-317;  Our  Old 
Home,  317-318;  "Chiefly  about  War 
Matters,"  318;  his  unfinished  romances, 
Dr.  Grimshawe's  Secret,  318;  Septimius 
Felt  on,  318;  The  Dolliver  Romance, 
318;  his  themes,  loneliness,  spiritual 
integrity,  318-319;  his  own  integrity, 
319;  death,  3T9;  tributes,  by  Emerson, 
319-320;  Holmes',  320;  influence,  320- 
321;  translations  of  his  works,  321^323^ 
325,  328,  364,  374,  375,  390,  79X4037 
409,  relation  to  politics,  *43  3-434,  his 
democracy,  434;  464,  472,  482,  542,  557, 
558,  562,  566,  569,  570,  591,  640,  649, 
655,  663,  678,  681,  690,  691,  697,  699, 
700,   709,   725,   729,   817,   832,   885 

Hay,  John,  575,  636,  his  "Little  Breeches," 
636;  "Jim  Bludso,"  636;  Pike  County 
Ballads,  636-637;  Abraham  Lincoln:  A 
History,  636;  647,  662m,  682;  696;  The 
Bread-Winners:  A  Social  Study,  764; 
784,  788 

Hayne,  Paul  Hamilton,  241,  305,  465, 
his  Legends  and  Lyrics,  632 

Hayne,  Robert  Y.,  debate  with  Webster, 
425-426 

Hazard  of  New  Fortunes,  A,  590-591, 
*672,    880-881 

Hazlitt,  William,  132,  728,  816,  820 

He  and  She,  927 

Headsman,  The,  232 

Hearn,  Lafcadio,  591,  *686-688,  birth, 
686;  education,  686;  his  One  of  Cleo- 
patra's Nights,  686;  Chita,  686-687; 
Youma,  687;  makes  his  home  in  Japan, 
687;  marriage,  687;  Glimpses  of  Un- 
familiar japan,  687;  Japan:  An  Attempt 
at  Interpretation,  687;  Japanese  Fairy 
Tales,  687;  Interpretations  of  Litera- 
ture, 687;  701,  775 

Heart  of  Maryland,  The,  799 

Heart's  Highway,  The,  659 

Hearts  of  Oak,  *8o4,  806 

"Heathen  Chinee,  The,"  637,  644 

Heaven's  My  Destination,  937 

Hedge,  Frederick  H.,  264 

Hegel,  Georg,  520,  945 

Heidenmauer,  232 

Heine,  Heinrich,  343,  624,  666,  674,  728, 
741,  965 

Held  by  the  Enemy,  799,  *8o7 

Helen's  Babies,  704 

H ell-Bent  for  Heaven,  921 

Hellman,  Lillian,  Watch  on  the  Rhine, 
941 

Hemingway,  Ernest,  882-884,  early  life 
and  characteristics  of  his  work,  882,!;  his 
Three  Stories  and  Ten  Poems,  882;  In 
Our  Time,  882;  The  Torrents  of 
Spring,  882;  "The  Killers,"  883;  "Fifty 
Grand,"   883;  "A  Clean,  Well-Lighted 


Place,"  883;  "The  Snows  of  Kiliman- 
jaro," 883;  The  Sun  Also  Rises,  883; 
A  Farewell  to  Arms,  883;  To  Have 
and  Have  Not,  883;  For  Whom  the 
Bell  Tolls,  883-884;  912,  965 

Henrietta,  The,  803 

Henry,  Patrick,  144,  180,  432,  522 

Hentz,  Caroline  L.,  591 

Her  Son's  Wife,  911 

Herakles,  716 

Herbert,  George,  57 

Herbert,  Victor,  587 

Herbst,  Josephine,'  957-958,  her  Pity  is 
Not  Enough,  957;  The  Executioner 
Waits,  957;  Rope  of  Gold,  957 

Herder,  Johann,  266 

Here  Come  the  Clowns,  936 

"Heredity,"  674,  675 

Hereford,  Oliver,  722 

Hergesheimer,  Joseph,  his  The  Three 
Black  Pennies,  889;  Java  Head,  889; 
Linda  Condon,  889 

"Hermit,  The,"  99 

Hermitage  and  Other  Poems,  The,  724 

Heme,  James  A.,  511,  798,  799,  801,  *8o3- 
806,  realistic  artist,  early  stage  experi- 
ence, 803-804;  Hearts  of  Oak,  804;  The 
Minute  Men  of  1774-1775,  804;  Mary, 
the  Fishermen's  Child,  804;  Drifting 
Apart,  804;  Shore  Acres,  804-805;  Mar- 
garet Fleming,  805;  Griffith  Daven- 
port, 806;  Sag  Harbor,  806 

Heroines  of  Fiction,  748 

Herrick,  Robert,  his  The  Memoirs  of  an 
American  Citizen,  830;  Clark's  Field, 
830 

Hersey,  John,  981,  his  A  Bell  for  Adano, 
982;  Hiroshima,  982 

Hewat,  Alexander,  his  An  Historical  Ac- 
count, 69 

Heyward,  Dubose,  his  "Edgar  Allan  Poe," 
305;  his  Carolina  Chansons,  918;  Porgy, 
918;  Mamba's  Daughters,  918;  The 
Brass  Ankle,  918;  Angel,  918;  Peter 
Ashley,  918;  Star -Spangled  Virgin,  918; 
Jasbo  Brown  and  Selected  Poems, 
918 

Hiawatha,  329-331,  sources,  330-331;  its 
metre,  331;  344,  345,  351,  369,  411,  549, 
566 

Hicks,  Edward,  547 

Higginson,  Francis,  his  New-Englands 
Plantation,  36 

Higginson,  Thomas  Wentworth,  268,  his 
Army  Life  in  a  Black  Regiment,  601; 
"Americanism  in  Literature,"  601;  652, 

73o.  732,  738,  764 
High  Bid,  The,  695 
High  Tor,  938 
Hildreth,  Richard,  269,  his  Despotism  in 

America,  460;  The  Slave:  or,  Memoirs 

of  Archy  Moore,  460- 
"Hill  Wife,  The,"  904 
Hillsboro  People,  912 
Him,  965 
"Hindoo  Literature,"  269 


ii34 


INDEX 


Hippolitus  Temporizes,  864 

Hippolytus,  497 

"Hippopotamus,  The,"  874 

Hireling  and  the  Slave,  The,  463 

Hiroshima^  981,  982 

Historia  Amoris,  741 

"Historic  Notes  of  Life  and  Letters  in 
.Massachusetts,"  407-408 

Historical  Account,  An,  69 

Historical  Account  of  the  Doings  and 
Sufferings  of  the  Christian  Indians  in 
New  England,  An,  80 

Historical  and  Geographical  Account  of 
Pensilvania,  An,  31 

Historical  Collections  of  the  Indians  in 
New  England,  80 

Historie  of  Travaile  into  Virginia  Britan- 
nia, 66-67 

History,  as  a  record,  the  Colonial  his- 
torians, 66-84,  Smith,  17-21,  Increase 
.Mather,  47-48,  Cotton  Mather,  48-52, 
Beverly,  67-68,  Smith  (of  N.  Y.),  69- 
70,  Bradford,  72-73,  Winthrop,  73, 
Morton,  74,  Hubbard,  76-77,  Dickin- 
son, 78,  Gookin,  79-80,  Prince,  82, 
Hutchinson,  83-84;  as  literature,  519- 
533,  Prescott's  standards,  519,  historical 
writing  of  Irving,  519-520,  of  Bancroft, 
520-525,  of  Prescott,  525-530,  of  Motley, 
530-532,  contribution  of  groundwork, 
Jared  Sparks,  533;  Parkman,  779,  Henry 
Adams,  782-789;  writing  of  as  affected 
by  science,  778-779,  Fiske,  778,  Herbert 
Adams,  778,  McMaster,  778,  779, 
Rhodes,  779,  951;  783-784,  95!-953, 
Cheyney,  952,  Robinson,  952,  C.  A. 
Beard,  952 

"History,"   284,  561 

History  and  Present  State  of  Virginia, 
The,  67 

History,  Life,  and  Manners  in  the  West, 
236 

History  of  a  Literary  Radical,  The, 
833 

History  of  Carolina,  The,  see  New  Voy- 
age to  Carolina,  A 

History  of  Labor  in  the  United  States, 
953 

History  of  New-England,  from  the  Eng- 
lish planting  in  the  Yeere  162X  until  I 
the  Yeere  16^2,  A,  73 

History  of  New  York,  A,  21^-214,  satire, 
individual  and  political,  21:5-214;  218, 
>'4- 

History  of  the  American  People,  950 

History  of  the  American  Theatre  (by 
Dunlap)  200,  Barker  writes  for,  204; 
Noah  writes  for,  207;  5^9 

History  of  the  Colony  and  Province  of 
Massachusetts  Bay,  The,  8^-84 

History  of  the  Colony  of  N ova-Caesaria, 
6911 

History  of  the  Conquest  of  Mexico,  A, 
,-28,  529,  J30 

History  oj  the  Com/nest  of  Peru,  A,  '528- 
J*9,  530 


History  of  the  Conspiracy  of  Pontiac  and 
the  War  of  the  North  American  Tribes, 

781 
History  of  the  Dividing  Line,  32-34 

History  of  the  First  Discovery  and  Set- 
tlement of  Virginia,  83 

History  of  the  Five  Indian  Nations,  The, 
70-71 

History  of  the  Formation  of  the  Federal 
Constitution,  525 

History  of  the  Indians  of  Connecticut, 
663 

"History  of  the  Italian  Language  and  Dia- 
lects," 339 

History  of  the  Kingdom  of  Basaruah, 
The,  47 

History  of  the  People  of  the  United 
States:  From  the  Revolution  to  the 
Civil  War,  A,  951 

History  of  the  Plymouth  Plantation,  *j2- 

73,  33i 
History   of  the  Province  of  New  York, 

69-70 
History  of  the  Province  of  Pennsylvania, 

History   of  the  Reign  of  Ferdinand  and 

Isabella,  the  Catholic,  *  5 26-5  2 7,  528,  530 
History  of  the  Reig?i  of  Philip  Second, 

The,  *529,  530 
History  of  the  Rise  and  Progress  of  the 

Arts  of  Design  in  the  United  States,  539 
History   of  the  Standard  Oil  Company, 

827 
History  of  the  United  Netherlands,  The, 

W-531,  *532 

History  of  the  United  States  (Henry 
Adams),  786-787 

History  of  the  United  States:  From  the 
Compromise  of  1850,  951 

History  of  the  United  States  from  the 
Discovery  of  the  American  Continent, 
432,  * 52 1-524,  its  literary  quality,  521- 
522;  the  six-volume  revision,  521;  char- 
acter portrayal,  523;  philosophy  of  his- 
tory, 523-524 

History  of  the  United  States  Navy,  234 

History  of  the  Wars  of  New-England 
with  the  Eastern  Indians,  76 

History  of  the  Work  of  Redemption,  A, 
109,  *i 1 1-1 12,  113,  116 

Hoadly,  Benjamin,  139 

Hobbs,  Thomas,  5 

Hobomok,  237 

Hodgkinson,  John,  202 

Holcome,  James  H.,  464 

Holiday,  935 

Holland,  Josiah  Gilbert,  first  editor  of 
Scribnefs  Monthly,  730 

Holley,  Marietta,  704 

Hollis,  Thomas,  143 

"Hollow  Men,  The,"  875,  877 

"Holly  Tree,  The,"  357 

Holmes,  J.  H.,  940 

I  lolmcs,  Mary  Jane,  590,  591 

Holmes,  Oliver  Wendell,  258,  261,  313, 
320,  336,  358,   *36i-373,  the  rationalist, 


INDEX 


"35 


361;  birth,  361;  education  and  reading, 
361;  translation  from  the  Aeneid,  362; 
early  published  works,  362;  "Old  Iron- 
sides," 362-,  trip  to  Europe,  362;  essays 
on  medical  subjects,  "The  Contagious- 
ness of  Puerperal  Fever,"  362,  "Ho- 
moeopathy and  its  Kindred  Delusions," 
362;  "Currents  and  Countercurrents  in 
Medical  Science,"  362;  Phi  Beta  Kappa 
poem,  "Poetry:  A  Metrical  Essay,"  362; 
Foems  (1836),  362-363;  Poems  (1849), 
363;  Songs  in  Many  Keys,  363;  ap- 
pointed professor,  Dartmouth  College, 
363;  Harvard,  363;  marriage,  363;  "My 
Hunt  after  the  Captain,"  363;  Pages 
fro772  an  Old  Volume  of  Life,  364;  Med- 
ical Essays,  364;  Poetry  of  the  War, 
364;  Songs  of  Many  Seasons,  364;  The 
Iron  Gate,  364;  Before  the  Curfew,  364; 
trip  to  Europe,  364;  One  Hundred 
Days  in  Europe,  364;  his  tributes  to 
Hawthorne,  364,  to  Longfellow,  364,  to 
Lowell,  364;  death,  364;  "The  Cham- 
bered Nautilus,"  364-365;  "Musa,"  365; 
"Contentment,"  365;  "The  Deacon's 
Masterpiece,"  365;  "Avis,"  365;  The 
Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table,  365- 
367;  The  Professor  at  the  Breakfast  Ta- 
ble, 367-368;  The  Poet  at  the  Breakfast 
Table,  368-369;  Over  the  Teacups,  369- 
370;  poems  on  local  themes,  370-371;  of 
patriotism,  371;  scientific-moral  essays: 
"Mechanism  in  Thought  and  Morals," 
371,  "Jonathan  Edwards,"  371,  "Crime 
and  Automatism,"  371;  fiction:  Elsie 
Venner,  372,  The  Guardian  Angel,  372, 
A  Mortal  Antipathy,  372;  his  popu- 
larity and  influence,  373;  374,  402,  409, 
letter  to  Lowell,  445;  relation  to  poli- 
tics, * 445-447,  champions  Webster,  445- 
446;  writings  prompted  by  the  Civil 
War:  "The  Army  Hymn,"  446,  "Union 
and  Liberty,"  446,  "The  Voice  of  the 
Loyal  North,"  446,  "To  John  and  Robert 
Ware,"  "The  Sweet  Little  Man,"  446, 
"The  Wormwood  Cordial  of  History," 
446,  "The  Inevitable  Trial,"  446;  politi- 
cal philosophy,  446-447;  497,  542,  569, 
571,  574,  576,  591,  623,  624,  625,  662,  668, 
702,  710,  715 
Holmes,  Oliver  Wendell,  Jr.,  941,  950 
Holyoke,  Edward,  46 
Home  as  Pound,  232,  *43o 
"Home  Ballads  and  Poems,"  41 3n 
Home  Book  of  the  Picturesque:  or  Amer- 
ican Scenery,  Art  and  Literature,  552 
"Home  Burial,"  904 
Home  Pastorals,  355,  357,  358,  360 
"Home,  Sweet  Home,"  208,  209 
Homer,  195,  399,  400,  417,  604,  627,  944 
Homer,  Winslow,  579-580,  self-training 
and  travel,  579;  periodical  illustration, 
579-580;  his  "Prisoners  from  the  Front," 
579-580;  turns  to  water  color  and  oil 
painting,  580;  "The  Fox  Hunt,"  580; 
"The  Gulf  Stream,"  580 


"Homesick  in  Heaven,"  368 

Homeward  Bound,  232,  429,  430 

"Homoeopathy  and  its  Kindred  Delu- 
sions," 362 

"Honest  Abe  of  the  West,"  627 

Honest  ]ohn  Vane,  665 

Hooker,  Thomas,  his  A  Survey  of  the 
Summe  of  Church -Discipline,  43;  his 
belief  in  plain  speech,  44;  his  sense  of 
drama,  44 

Ho  osier  Holiday,  A,  849 

Ho  osier  Mosaics,  738 

Hoosier  School-Master,  The,  646,  *647, 
its  popularity  and  influence,  648;  738 

"Hop  Frog,"  292,  302,  * 304-305 

Hope  Leslie,  237 

Hope  of  the  Great  Community ,  The,  945 

Hopkinson,  Francis,  99,  156-158,  first 
American  poet-composer,  156;  other 
accomplishments,  156;  lawyer,  public 
servant,  and  statesman,  156;  designer  of 
the  American  flag,  156;  serious  writing, 
humorous,  157-158;  The  Battle  of  the 
Kegs,  157;  A  Pretty  Story,  157;  The 
New  Roof,  157;  Modern  Learning  Ex- 
emplified by  a  Specimen  of  a  Collegiate 
Examination,  157;  162,  189,  193,  219,  385 

Hopkinson,  Joseph,  author  of  "Hail  Co- 
lumbia!" 189 

Horizon,  799 

Horseshoe  Robinson:  A  Tale  of  the  Tory 
Ascendancy,  239 

"Horse  Swap,  The,"  236 

Horses  and  Men,  872 

Hotel  Universe,  935,  936 

Hough,  Emerson,  his  The  Covered 
Wagon,  940 

House  Divided,  A,  840 

House  of  Connelly,  The,  92 1 

House  of  Dust,  The,  867 

"House  of  Friends,  The,"  603-604 

House  of  Mirth,  The,  817,  dramatized, 
823 

"House  of  Night,  The,"  165,  170 

House  of  the  Seven  Gables,  The,  *3 13- 
315,  319,  562 

House-Boat  on  the  Styx,  A,  708 

Hovey,  Richard,  623,  *723~724,  his 
Laimcelot  and  Guenevere,  723;  The 
Birth  of  Galahad,  723;  Taliesin:  A 
Masque,  723;  "A  Stein  Song,"  724; 
Songs  from  Vagabondia,  724;  transla- 
tions of  Maeterlinck,  724 

How  I  Pound  Livingstone,  590 

"How  Old  Brown  Took  Harper's  Ferry," 
627 

"How  the  Robin  Came,"  351 

"How  the  Women  Went  from  Dover," 

35i 
How  To  Try  a  Lover,  207 
How  to  Write  Short  Stories,  880 
Howard,    Bronson,    511,    797n,    798,    799, 
800,  *  80 1 -803,  his  Kate,  802;  Saratoga, 
802;  birth,  802;  marriage,  802;  Aristoc- 
racy, 802;  One  of  Our  Girls,  802-803; 
The  Banker's  Daughter,  803 ;  The  Hen- 


1 136 


INDEX 


Howard,  Bronson   {cont'd) 
rietta}  803;  Shenandoah,  803;  Old  Love 
Letters,    803;    Young   Mrs.    Winthrop, 
803 

I  Inward,  Sidney,  his  They  Knew  What 

They  Wanted,  940;  The  Silver  Cord, 
940;  Yellow  Jack,  940;  Paths  of  Glory, 
940 

I I  owe,  Edgar  Watson,  his  The  Story  of 
a  Country  Town,  648;  674,  869 

1  [owe,  Joseph,  161 

1  [owe,  Julia  Ward,  her  Leonora:  or,  The 
World's  Own,  497;  Hip  poly  tus,  497; 
571,  768 

Howells,    William    Dean,    218,    413,    575, 
576,  587,  590,  591,  592,  593,  594,  622,  625, 
626,   645,   649,   650,   658,   660,   662,   663, 
* 665-680,     his  position  among  his  con- 
temporaries,   665-666;     education,    666; 
reading,  666-667;  journalistic  work  and 
early  contributions,  667;  Poems  of  Two 
Friends,  667;  The  Lives  and  Speeches 
of    Abraham    Lincoln    and    Hannibal 
Hamlin,  667;  appointed  consul  at  Ven- 
ice, 667;   Venetian  Life,  667;  edits  the 
Nation,  667;  Italian  Journeys,  667;  Mod- 
ern Italian  Poets:  Essays  and  Versions, 
668;    edits   the   Atlantic   Monthly,   668; 
Their   Wedding  Journey,  668;  literary 
associations,    668;    Suburban    Sketches, 
668-669;    "A    Romance   of   Real    Life," 
669;   A   Chance  Acquaintance,  669;   A 
Foregone   Conclusion,   669;   The  Lady 
of  the  Aroostook,  669;  objectivity  and 
European     influence     on,     669-670;     A 
Fearful  Responsibility,  670;  A  Modern 
Instance,  670;  The  Undiscovered  Coun- 
try, 670;  Doctor  Br  e  en's  Practice,  670; 
The  Rise  of  Silas  Lapham,  670-671;  In- 
dian Summer,  671;  letter  to  New  York 
Tribune,   67 1 ;    The   Minister's   Charge, 
671;  with  Harper's  Monthly,  672;  edits 
Cosmopolitan  Magazine,  672;  A  Hazard 
<>\    New  Fortunes,  672;  Letters  Home, 
672;  The  Shadow  of  a  Dream,  672;  The 
Quality    of   Mercy,   672;    The   Son    of 
Royal  Laugbrith,  672-673;  The  Leather- 
wood  God,  67  V,  A  Traveler  from  Al- 
truria,   673;   Through   the  Eye   of   the 
Needle,  673;   interest   in  socialism.  673; 
honors.  67:5-6-4;  Poems,  674;  No  Love 
Lost:     A     Romance     of    Travel,    674; 
"Elegy  on    [ohn  Butler  Howells,"  674; 
Stops  of    Various  Quills,  674-675;  The 
Mother  and  The  Father:  Dramatic  Pas- 
sages, 675;  The  Daughter  of  the  Storage 
Other  Things  in  Prose  and   Verse, 
675;  A  Hoy's  Love u,  675;  My  Year  in  a 
I         Cabin,  675;    )'ears   of  My    Youth, 
675;    Wv  Literary  Passions,  675;  Literary 
Friends    and    Acquaintance,    675;    My 
!///•   I  wain,  675;  criticism,  on  Euro- 
pean   literature,   676;    Heroines   of   Fic- 
tion,   6,-6,    Criticism    and    Fiction,    676; 
Literature  and  Life,  676;  on  democracy 
in  literature,  6--;  on  nationality  in  liter- 


ature, 677;  on  realism  and  romanticism, 
678;  his  work  a  reflection  of  life,  678- 
680;  681,  682,  684,  687,  690,  701,  709,  710, 
716,  721,  723,  732,  737,  738,  739-740,  743, 
748,  756,  757,  764,  768,  769,  770,  771,  776, 
789,  794,  his  dramatic  works,  *797~798, 
The  Parlor  Car,  797;  The  Impossible, 
797;  The  Sleepmg  Car,  797;  The  Smok- 
ing  Car,  797;  The  Unexpected  Guests, 
797;  A  Masterpiece  of  Diplomacy,  798; 
his  translations,  Sansone,  798,  Yorick's 
Love,  798;  A  Counterfeit  Presentment, 
798;  Minor  Dramas,  798;  804,  805,  806, 
835,  845,  880-881,  954,  975 

"Howe's  Masquerade,"  3 1 1 

Hubbard,  Elbert,  his  "A  Message  to  Gar- 
cia," 573 

Hubbard,  William,  75,  76-77,  his  Narra- 
tive of  the  Troubles  with  the  Indians  in 
New-England,  76-77;  General  History 
of  New  England,  77 

Hugh  Wynne,  239,  777 

Hughes,  Hatcher,  his  Hell-Bent  for 
Heaven,  921;  Ruint,  921 

Hughes,  Langston,  920,  962 

Hugo,  Victor,  471,  472,  754 

"Human  Helpers,"  274 

Human  Nature  and  Conduct,  949 

"Humanity  of  Science,"  289 

Humble  Romance  and  Other  Stories,  A, 

659 

Humor,  literary,  1 21-122,  212,  366,  643, 
655,  701-702,  703,  705-720,  845;  profes- 
sional, 24-25,  32,  93-94,  569-570,  6\6, 
640,  642,  701,  702-705,  708,  835-837,  845 

Humphreys,  David,  one  of  the  Connecti- 
cut Wits,  189;  his  sonnets,  189;  The 
Happiness  of  America,  189;  Poem  on 
Industry,  189;  The  Widow  of  Malabar, 
204;  his  Yankee  in  England,  204;  537 

Huneker,  James  Gibbons,  741,  858-859, 
critic  of  the  arts,  858;  his  Mezzotints  in 
Modern  Music,  858;  Iconoclasts:  A 
Book  of  Dramatists,  858;  Old  Fogy, 
858;  Steeplejack,  858;  Painted  Veils, 
858;  Mencken's  appraisal  of,  858-859 

Hunt,  Richard  Morris,  584 

Huntington,  Daniel,  258 

Hurlbert,  W.  H.,  his  Americans  in  Paris, 
508-509 

Hutchinson,  Thomas,  77,  his  The  History 
of  the  Colony  and  Province  of  Massa- 
chusetts Bay,  83-84;  163 

Hutton.  Laurence,  795 

Huxlev,  T.  H.,  371,  380,  633,  772,  773, 
848 

"Hymn  of  the  Earth,"  274 

"Hymn  of  Trust,  A,"  367 

"Hymn  to  Death,"  250 

Hyperion:  A  Romance,  324,  * 3 2 5 ,  343, 
344 


"I  Have  a  Rendezvous  with  Death,"  834 
"I  Heard  You  Solemn-Sweet  Pipes  of  the 
Organ,"  616 


INDEX 


1137 


"I  Sing  the  Body  Electric,"  606,  616 

"I  Want  to  Know  Why," '872 

Ibsen,  Henrik,  575,  676,  796,  804,  805,  927 

Iceman  Cometh,  The,  418,  934,  935 

"Ichabod,"  *353,  354,  444 

Iconoclasts:  A  Book  of  Dramatists,  858 

Vd  Rather  be  Right,  940 

Ida,  866 

Idea  of  the  English  School ..  .for  the 
Consideration  of  the  Trustees  of  the 
Philadelphia  Academy,  116 

Ideal  Passion,  725,  902 

"Idealism,"  279 

Ideas  of  Order,  967 

Ides  of  March,  The,  937 

Idiot's  Delight,  940 

Idle  Man,  The,  261 

If  This  Be  Treason,  940 

Iliad,  The,  translation  of,  by  Bryant,  255 

Illinois,  University  of,  585 

"Illusions,"  282 

"I'm  a  Fool,"  872 

"Images  or  Shadows  of  Divine  Things," 
114-115 

Imaginary  Obligations,  816 

Imagist  Movement,  The,  625,  755,  859- 
864 

Imlay,  Gilbert,  his  The  Emigrants,  191 

"Immortality,"  28m 

Imperative  Duty,  An,  679 

Impossible,  The,  797 

In  a  Garden,  935 

In  Abraham's  Bosom,  921 

In  After  Days:  Thoughts  on  the  Future 
Life,  700 

In  Darkest  Africa,  683 

In  Dubious  Battle,  959 

In  His  Steps,  590,  771 

In  Mizzoura,  823 

hi  Old  Plantation  Days,  657 

In  Ole  Virginia,  656 

hi  Our  Time,  882 

"In  School-days,"  350-354 

In  the  A?nerican  Grain,  971 

In  the  Hands  of  the  Senecas,  891 

In  the  Harbor,  345 

In  the  Midst  of  Life,  660,  *76o 

"In  the  Old  South,"  351 

In  the  Sierras,  791 

In  the  Tennessee  Mountains,  656 

In  the  Valley,  743 

In  This  Our  Life,  917 
In  War  Time  (S.  W.  Mitchell),  777 
In  War  Time  and  Other  Poems,  349 
Indian,  the,  treatment  of  in  literature,  23, 
35,  36,  42,  59,  67,  68,  70-71,  74-80,  133, 
135,  163,  195,  215,  219,  226-230,  233,  236, 
237,  238,  240,  323,  329-330,  348,  351,  470, 
480,  486,  498-500,  522,  764,  780;  in  paint- 
ing, 549 
"Indian  Burying  Ground,  The,"   168 
Indian  Princess,  The,  *205,  498 
Indian  Prophecy,  The,  498 
Indian  Swnmer,  6yi 

"Inevitable  Trial,  The,"  see  Oration  be- 
fore the  City  Authorities  of  Boston 


Infidel:  or,  The  Fall  of  Mexico,  The,  238, 
481 

Influence  of  Sea  Power  upon  History, 
The,  779 

Ingersoll,  Charles  J.,  his  Edwy  and  El- 
giva,  204 

Ingraham,  Joseph  H.,  his  Prince  of  the 
House  of  David,  242;  Pillar  of  Fire,  242; 
The  Throne  of  David,  242;  Burton:  or, 
The  Sieges,  242 

Inklings  of  Adventure,  m 

Inman,  Henry,  544 

Inness,  George,  551 

Innocents  Abroad,  The,  683,  702,  7i3n, 
714,716,  717,  718 

"Inscription  for  the  Entrance  to  a  Wood," 
249 

"Inscriptions,"  615 

"Inspiration,"  273 

Instrumentalism,  doctrine  of,  949,  950 

International  Copyright  Act  (1891),  974 

Interpretations  of  Literature,  687 

Interpretations  of  Poetry  and  Religion, 
948 

Ion,  The,  translation  of,  864 

Iowa  Interiors,  871 

Ipsico  Poe,  239 

"Iris,  Her  Book,"  367 

Iron  Gate,  The,  364 

Irradiations,  863 

Irresponsibles,  The,  972 

Irving,  Henry,  231,  512 

Irving,  Peter,  212 

Irving,  Washington,  26,  167,  193,  208,  209, 
*2 1 1-2 19,  birth,  211;  education,  212;  stay 
in  Europe,  212;  influence  of  Washing- 
ton Allston,  212;  "Jonathan  Oldstyle" 
letters,  212;  co-publisher  of  Salmagundi, 
212-213;  his  A  History  of  New  York, 
213-214;  The  Sketch  Book  of  Goeffrey 
Crayon,  Gent.,  214;  creation  of  the 
Short  Story,  214;  Bracebridge  Hall,  215; 
"Dolph  Heyliger,"  215;  Tales  of  a 
Traveller,  215;  adaptation  of  Charles  II, 
215;  Abii  Hassan,  215;  letter  to  William 
Irving,  2 1 511,  to  Scott,  215;  residence  in 
Madrid,  215-216;  Life  and  Voyages 
of  Christopher  Columbus,  215;  The 
Voyages  and  Discoveries  of  the  Com- 
panions of  Christopher  Columbus,  216; 
A  Chronicle  of  the  Conquest  of  Gra- 
nada, 216;  The  Alhambra,  216;  Secretary 
of  Legation  in  London,  216;  tours  south 
and  west,  216;  Crayon  Miscellany ,  216- 
217;  Tour  of  the  Prairies,  216;  Legends 
of  the  Conquest  of  Spain,  217;  Astoria, 
217;  The  Adventures  of  Captain  Bonne- 
ville, 217;  Minister  to  Spain,  217;  biog- 
raphy of  Oliver  Goldsmith,  217; 
Mohamet  and  his  Successors,  217;  Life 
of  Washington,  217-218;  death,  218; 
Spanish  Papers,  218;  influence,  recogni- 
tion, and  contribution  to  literature,  218- 
219;  222,  237,  239,  249,  251,  258,  304,  322, 
386,  404,  409,  relation  to  politics,  *426- 
427>  464;  5°9>  5I0>  5*9*  52°>  5*6,  527,  532» 


38 


INDEX 


Irving,  Washington    {cont'd) 

534,  535,  548,  552,  566,  642,  643,  645,  647, 
666,  669,  681,  702,  705,  710,  791,  845,  891 

Irving,  William,  212 

Is  Shakespeare  Dead?  719 

"Isabella  of  Austria,"  348 

Island  of  Barrataria,  The,  199 

"Israel  Freyer's  Bid  for  Gold,"  627 

Israel  Potter,  246 

"Israfel,"  254,  293,  299,  387,  388,  566 

It  Is  the  Law,  741 

Italian  Father,  The,  *202,  203,  470 

Italian  Hours,  683 

Italian  Journeys,  667 

"Italian  Narrative  Poetry,"  527 

Italian  Notebooks,  316-317,  433,  557,  559 

"Italian  Scenery,"  339 

"Italy,"  253 

"Item,"  971 

Ivory  Tower,  The,  697 

Jack  Cade,  469,  *482-483,  487 

Jack  Tier,  230,  231 

Jackson,  Andrew,  424,  447,  454 

Jackson,  Helen  Hunt,  591,  630,  682-683, 
727,  730,  764 

Jacob  Leisler,  500 

Jacobi,  Frederick,  264 

James,  Henry,  233,  320,  374,  413,  576,  579, 
580,  591,  592,  593,  610,  645,  651,  653,  655, 
662,  668,  669,  671,  674,  675,  676,  683,  684, 
685,  *688-7oo,  a  portrayer  of  character, 
688-680;  birth,  689;  education,  689-690; 
early  influences  upon,  690-691;  early 
writing,  690-691;  the  international  theme 
appears,  "A  Passionate  Pilgrim,"  691; 
Watch  and  Ward,  691;  Roderick  Hud- 
son, 691;  establishes  residence  in  Eu- 
rope, 691;  Washington  Square,  692; 
The  Bostonians,  692;  The  American, 
692;  Daisy  Miller,  692;  The  Europeans, 
692;  other  works  in  the  early  style, 
"Gabrielle  de  Bergerac,"  693,  "The  Au- 
thor of  Beltraffio,"  693,  "The  Aspern 
Papers,"  69^,  The  Portrait  of  a  Lady, 
693,  The  Princess  Casamassima,  693, 
The  Tragic  Muse,  694,  Notes  of  a  Son 
and  Brother,  694;  attempt  at  drama, 
adaptation  of  Daisy  Miller,  694;  of  The 
American,  695;  Guy  Domville,  695; 
Theatricals,  605;  The  High  Bid,  695; 
"The  Next  Time,"  695;  "The  Figure 
in  the  Carpet,"  695;  later  period.  The 
Spoils  of  Poynton,  695,  696,  What 
Mai  sic  Knew,  695-696,  The  Awkward 
Age,  696,  The  Sacred  Fount,  696;  final 
style,  The  Wings  of  the  Dove,  696, 
The  Ambassadors,  696,  The  Golden 
Bowl,  696-607;  letter  to  Elizabeth  Rob- 
ins. 697;  The  Ivory  'Tower,  697;  The 
Seme  of  the  Past,  697;  lectures,  "The 
Question  of  Our  Speech,"  698,  "The 
lesson  of  Balzac,"  698;  "The  American 
Scene,"  608;  The  Prefaces,  New  York 
Edition  of  works,  698;  "The  Art  of  Fic- 
tion," 698:  critical  works:    Hawthorne, 


699,  William  Wetmore  Story  and  His 
Friends,  699,  French  Poets  and  Novel- 
ists, 699,  Partial  Portraits,  699,  Notes  on 
Novelists,  699;  hi  After  Days:  Thoughts 
on  the  Future  Life,  700;  701,  709,  738, 
757.  758,  759.  778,  797.  802,  814,  816,  855, 
857,  860,  908,  911,  944,  946,  954 

James,  Henry,  Senior,  268 

James,  Louis,  491 

James,  Marquis,  953 

James,  William,  784,  865,  866,  943,  944m 
* 946-947,  his  approach  to  philosophy, 
946;  his  Pragmatism,  946;  The  Principles 
of  Psychology,  946;  letter  to  Henry 
James,  946;  The  Will  to  Believe,  946; 
The  Varieties  of  Religions  Experience, 
946;  A  Pluralistic  Universe,  947;  Letters, 

947;  948 

Jameson,  Mrs.,  340 

"Jane  Reed,"  357 

]ane  Talbot,  195 

]anice  Meredith,  739 

Japanese  Fairy  Tales,  687 

J  as  bo  Brow?i  and  Selected  Poems,  918 

Jasmin,  Jacques,  336 

Java  Head,  889 

Jay,  John,  227 

Jeb,  962 

JefTers,  Robinson,  his  Tamar,  878;  Roan 
Stallion,  Tamar,  and  Other  Poems,  878; 
Dear  Judas,  878;  At  the  Birth  of  an 
Age,  878;  his  creed,  878-879 

Jefferson,  Joseph,  1st,  205,  467 

Jefferson,  Joseph,  3rd,  510,  791,  796 

Jefferson,  Thomas,  156,  166,  176,  *  183-184, 
his  literary  magnitude,  183;  The  Dec- 
laration of  Independence,  183;  his  In- 
augural Addresses  and  Messages,  183; 
letters,  183-184;  remarks  on  Jay's  treaty, 
184;  style,  184;  educational  activities, 
founding  of  University  of  Virginia, 
184;  Thoughts  on  English  Prosody,  184; 
Autobiography,  184;  424,  522,  523,  535, 

536,  537,  544.  561,  921 

Jefferson  Davis,  923 

Jenney,  W.  L.,  586 

Jennie  Gerhardt,  848 

Jesuits  in  North  America  in  the  Seven- 
teenth Century,  781 

Jewett,  Sarah  O.,  576,  *657~659,  birth,  658; 
Deephaven,  658;  The  Country  of  the 
Pointed  Firs,  658;  A  White  Heron  and 
Other  Stories,  658;  A  Native  of  Winby 
and  Other  Tales,  658;  A  Country  Doc- 
tor, 658;  The  Tory  Lover,  658;  660,  739, 
805,  911 

Jews  Without  Money,  958 

"Jim  Bludso,"  636 

"Jim  Smiley  and  His  Jumping  Frog,"  712 

Joan  of  Lorraine,  939 

Joaquin  Miller's  Poems,  63 1 

John,  935 

John  Barleycorn,  846 

John  Bodewiifs  Testimony,  646 

John  Brent,  570 

"John  Brown"  (Lindsay),  841 


INDEX 


39 


John  Br own 's  Body  (Benet),  573,  *89i 

"John  Brown's  Body"  (song),  571 

John  Endicott,  332 

John  Godfrey's  Fortunes,  357 

John  Henry,  919 

"John  Reed,"  357 

John  Ward,  Preacher,  744 

"Jonathan  Edwards,"  371 

"Jonathan  to  John,"  377,  *453~454 

Johns,  Orrick,  958 

Johns  Hopkins  University,  628,  635,  666, 
684,  778,  865,  945 

Johnson,  Allen,  953 

Johnson,  Edward,  his  A  History  of  New- 
England,  73 

Johnson,  James  Weldon,  his  Lyrics  of 
Lowly  Life,  919;  Lyrics  of  the  Hearth- 
side,  919 

Johnson,  Samuel,  100,  102-103,  first  presi- 
dent of  King's  College,  102;  his  Ethic es 
Elementa,  102;  Elementa  Philosophic  a, 
102;  Raphael:  or  the  Genius  of  the 
Eiiglish  America,  102;  109 

Johnston,  Mary,  her  To  Have  and  to 
Hold,  739 

Johnston,  Richard  Malcolm,  his  Georgia 
Sketches,  later  Dukesborough  Tales, 
652;  Old  Times  in  Middle  Georgia,  653 

Jones,  John  Paul,  658 

Jones,  J.  S.,  his  The  People's  Lawyer,  503; 
The  Silver  Spoon,  504;  Moll  Pitcher: 
or,  the  Fortune  Teller  of  Lynn.,  504 

Jones,  Thomas  S.,  Jr.,  his  sonnets,  823 

Joscelyn:  A  Tale  of  the  Revolution  in 
Georgia,  241 

Joseph  and  His  Brethren,  199 

Joseph  and  his  Friend,  358 

Journal  of  John  Woolman,  *i26,  354 

"Journal  of  Julius  Rodman,  The,"  304 

Journals  (Emerson),  276,  277,  281,  283, 
287,  288,  398,  399,  401,  402,  403,  435-436, 
437,  438-439    r 

Journals  (Longfellow),  322,  329,  330,  338, 

339,  343,440,441,442 

Journey  into  America,  893 

Journey  of  the  Magi,  897 

Journey  to  Central  Africa,  356 

Journey  to  the  Land  of  Eden,  A,  32 

Journeyman,  886 

Joyous  Season,  The,  936 

Judd,  Sylvester,  his  Margaret,  640 

"Judgment  of  Bolinas  Plain,  The,"  play 
based  on,  800 

Judgment  of  Solomon,  The,  199 

Judith  and  Holof ernes,  626 

"Judith  at  the  Tent  of  Holofernes,"  348 

Julia:  or,  The  Wanderer,  208 

Julian,  242 

"June  Idyll,  A,"  see  "Under  the  Willows" 

Jungle,  The,  829 

Jungle  Peace,  893 

Jurgen,  889 

"Just  before  the  Battle,  Mother,"  571 

"Justice  and  Expediency,"  349,  444 

"Justice  of  God  in  the  Damnation  of  Sin- 
ners, The,"  109 


Juvenile  Poems  on  Various  Subjects,  55, 
i63n 


Kahn,  Otto  H.,  974 

Kanin,  Garson,  941 

Kant,  Immanuel,  263-264,  402,  945 

Kate,  802 

Kate  Beaumont,  651,  *664-665 

Katharine  Walton,  240 

Kaufman,  George  S.,  his  Dulcy,  856;  To 
the  Ladies,  856;  Green  Pastures,  939; 
Beggar  on  Horseback,  939;  You  Can't 
Take  It  With  You,  939;  The  Man  Who 
Ca?ne  to  Dinner,  939;  Of  Thee  1  Sing, 
940;  Let  'Em  Eat  Cake,  940;  Id  Rather 
be  Right,  940 

Kavanagh,  333,  Lowell's  review  of,  410- 
411 

Kean,  Charles,  468,  483 

Kean,  Edmund,  468,  472 

Keats,  John,  376,  417,  623,  624,  723,  822, 
862,  968 

Keene,  Laura,  501 

Keep  Cool,  221 

"Keep  the  Home  Fires  Burning,"  571 

Kelly,  George,  his  The  Torch-Bearers, 
856;  The  Show-Off,  856;  Craig's  Wife, 
856;  Daisy  Mayme,  856;  Behold  the 
Bridegroom,  856;  The  Deep  Mrs.  Sykes, 
856;  The  Fatal  Weakness,  856 

Kemble,  Charles,  468,  472 

Kemble,  Fanny,  468 

Kennedy,  John  Pendleton,  his  Swallow 
Barn,  239;  Horseshoe  Robinson,  239; 
Rob  of  the  Bowl,  239;  293 

Kentuckian  in  New  York,  The,  242 

Kentucky  Cardinal,  A,  657 

Kentucky  Heiress,  The,  483 

Kentucky  Poems,  723 

Kenyon,  Charles,  his  Kindling,  832 

Kenyon  College,  923 

Kepler,  Johann,  5 

Keramos  and  Other  Poems,  345 

Kerr,  John,  his  dramatic  version  of  Rip 
Van  Winkle,  509-510 

Key,  Francis  Scott,  189 

Key  into  the  Language  of  America,  42 

Key  Largo,  938 

Kierkegard,  943,  964 

"Killed  at  the  Ford,"  443 

"Killers,  The,"  883 

Kilmer,  Joyce,  "Trees,"  834 

Kindling,  832 

King,  Clarence,  784 

King,  Edward,  his  The  Great  South,  653 

King,  Grace  Elizabeth,  654 

"King  Christian,"  341 

King  Coal,  829 

King  Jasper,  822,  906 

"King  Olafs  Christmas,"  342 

King  Philip's  War,  59,  74-80 

"King  Robert  of  Sicily,"  341 

King's  College,  see  Columbia  University 

King's  Henchman,  The,  895 

"King's  Missive,  The,"  351 


1 140 


INDEX 


Kingslev,  Sidnev,  his  Men  in  White,  940;   I 
The  'World   We  Make,  940;  The  Pa- 
triots, 941 

Kipling,  Rudyard,  638,  645,  739,  750,  760 

Kirkland,  Caroline,  her  A  New  Home-   I 
Who'll  Follow?  236,  243,  293,  646 

Kirkland,  jack,  886 

Kirkland,  Joseph,  his  Zury,  648;  The  Mc- 
Veys,  648;  The  Captain  of  Company  K,  1 
648;  869 

"Kit  Carson's  Ride,"  631 

Kit,  the  Arkansas  Traveler,  799 

Kittrcdgc,  G.  L.,  902 

Kittredge,  Walter,  571 

Kneel  to  the  Rising  Sun,  886 

Knickerbocker,  249 

Knickerbocker  Group,  356 

Knickerbocker  Holiday,  218,  938 

Knight,  Sarah  Kemble,  her  journal,  103 

Knights  of  the  Horseshoe,  The,  242 

"Knot  of  Blue,  The,"  722 

Knowles,  Sheridan,  his  Virginius,  483 

Knox,  J.  Armoy,  702 

Koch,  "  Frederick  H.,  editor,  Carolina 
Folk-Plays,  920;  Carolina  Playmakers, 
979 

Ko/iigsmark,  494 

Koiiingsmarke:  or,  Old  Times  in  the  New 
World,  219 

Kotzebue,  August  von,  202-203 

Krimmel,  J.  L.,  547-548,  549 

"Ku  Klux,"  723 


L.  of  G's.  Purport,"  774 

Labor  and  Capital,"  674 

Laboring  Classes,  The,"  266 

Labour,"   127 

.ady  in  the  Dark,  939 

.ady  of  Lyons,  The,  507 

.ady  <>\  the  Aroostook,  The,  669 

Lady  or  the  Tiger?  The,"  594,  706,  707, 

91 
aengselens  Baat  (The  Boat  of  Longing), 
912 

.aFarge,  John,  582,  670,  690,  784 
.afayette,  Marquis  de,  176,  233,  520,  544, 

545 

.afayette:  or.  The  Castle  of  Olmutz,  208 

..it.i>  ette  College,  755 

,amb,  Charles,  129,  132,  420,  816 

Kind,"  :SS 

.and  of  Plenty,  The,  957 

.a,  nil  or  J  at  Lion's  Head,  The,  679 

Landmarks,  The,"  •352-353,  355 

.andon,  Melville  D.,  702 

.andor,  Walter  Savage,  277,  626,  864 

Landor's  Cottage,"   301,  304,  561 

.ands  o\  the  Saracen,  156 

Landscape  Garden,  The."   {04,  561 

I  .anguage,"  2-9,  398 

anier,  Sidney,  $04,  569,  $72,  575,  623, 
632-636,  letter  to  a  Northern  friend, 
633;  musical  career,  633;  influences 
upon,  633-634;  "  I  he  Marshes  of 
Glynn,"    633;    "Sunrise,"    633;    "Corn," 


/. 


634;  "The  Symphony,"  634;  "Centen- 
nial iMeditation  of  Columbia,"  634;  "A 
Psalm  of  the  West,"  634;  Poems  (1877), 
634;  Poems  of  Sidney  Lanier,  634;  Poem 
Outlines,  635;  Tiger-Lilies,  635;  The 
Science  of  English  Verse,  635;  The 
English  Novel  and  the  Principles  of  Its 
Development,  635;  Shakspere  and  His 
Forerunners,  635;  "Cracker"  poems, 
635-636;  640,  721,  722,  723,  764,  775,  922 

Lardner,  Ring,  * 879-880,  his  You  Know 
Me,  Al,  879;  Gullible 's  Travels,  879-880; 
Treat  'Em  Rough,  880;  The  Big  Town, 
880;  How  to  Write  Short  Stories,  880; 
the  tone  of  his  work,  880;  The  Story  of 
a  Wonder  Man,  880;  885,  980 

LaSalle  and  the  Discovery  of  the  Great 
West,  781 

"Last  Leaf,  The,"  362-363,  373 

Last  of  the  Lowries,  The,  921 

Last  of  the  Mohicans,  *ng,  234 

Last  Puritan,  The,  948 

Last  Refuge,  The,  747,  748 

Last  Tycoon,  The,  889 

"Last  Walk  in  Autumn,  The,"  347,  350- 

35i,  354,  355 

"Latest  Views  of  Mr.  Biglow,"  454 

Laugh  and  Lie  Down,  957 

Launcelot  and  Guenevere,  723 

"Laus  Deo,"  445 

"Lauth,"  775-776 

Lavery,  Emmet,  his  The  First  Legion, 
940;  The  Magnificent  Yankee,  941 

Lavves  for  Virginia,  21 

Lawrence,  Reginald,  940 

Lawson,  John,  his  A  New  Voyage  to 
Carolina,  28;  68,  133 

Lawson,  John  Howard,  his  Loud  Speaker, 
962;  Marching  Song,  962 

Lawton  Girl,  The,  744 

Lay  of  the  Scottish  Fiddle,  The,  220 

Lays  of  My  Home,  349 

Lazarus,  Emma,  her  Poems  and  Ballads  of 
Heinrich  Heine,  727;  Admetus  and 
Other  Poems,  yzj;  Songs  of  a  Semite, 
728;  "By  the  Waters  of  Babylon,"  728; 
"The  New  Colossus,"  728 

Lazarus  Laughed,  716,  932-933 

Leacock,  Stephen,  852 

"Leaden-Eyed,  The,"  843 

Leah  and  Rachel:  or,  the  Two  Faithfull 
Sisters  Virginia  and  Mary -land,  23 

Leaning  Tower,  The,  925 

"Lear  and  Cordelia,"  495 

Leatherwood  God,  The,  673 

"Leaves  from  my  Journal  in  Italy  and 
Elsewhere,"  381,  563 

Leaves  of  Grass,  18 $5  Edition,  599,  600, 
603,  606-608,  its  reception,  606-607;  its 
doctrine,  607;  Whitman's  publicity 
practices,  608;  1856  Edition,  599,  605, 
608;  i860  Edition,  609,  618;  1861  Edi- 
tion, 611;  i8-ji  Edition,  611;  1876  Edi- 
tion, 615;  1881,  Osgood  Edition,  615- 
619,  definitive  arrangement:  "Inscrip- 
tions,"     615,      "Children      of      Adam," 


INDEX 


41 


616-618,  "Calamus,"  616,  617,  618,  "Birds 
of  Passage,"  618,  "Sea-Drift,"  618,  "By 
the  Roadside,"  618,  "Drum-Taps,"  618, 
"Memories  of  President  Lincoln,"  618, 
"By  Blue  Ontario's  Shore,"  618,  "Au- 
tumn Rivulets,"  618-619,  "The  Sleep- 
ers," 619,  "Whispers  of  Heavenly 
Death,"  619,  "From  Noon  to  Starry 
Night,"  619;  weakness  of  the  arrange- 
ment, 619;  1888  Edition,  615;  1892  Edi- 
tion, 615;  see  also  612,  613,  620,  621, 
623,  631,  648,  756,  774 

Lectures  and  Biographical  Sketches,  290 

Lectures  in  America,  865 

Lectures  on  English  Poets,  413 

"Lectures  on  Poetry,"  * 256-257,  385 

Led-Horse  Claim,  The,  645 

Lee,  Nathaniel,  161 

Lee  in  the  Mountains,  giq. 

Legend  of  Ara-Coeli,  The,  626 

"Legend  of  Brittany,  A,"  376 

"Legend  of  Count  Julian,"  217 

"Legend  of  Don  Roderick,"  217 

"Legend  of  Pelayo,"  218 

Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow,  The,  214,  218, 
566 

"Legend   of  the    Subjugation   of   Spain," 

"Legend  of  the  Two  Discreet  Statues, 
The,"  216 

Legends,  863 

Legends  and  Lyrics,  632 

Legends  of  New  England,  348 

Legends  of  the  Conquest  of  Spain,  The, 
217,  218 

Legends  of  the  West,  235-236 

Leicester,  201,  203 

Leighton,  William,  his  The  Whisper  of 
the  Sphinx,  774 

Leland,  Charles  G.,  his  "Hans  Breitmann's 
Barty,"  636 

Lennox,  Charlotte,  her  Life  of  Harriot 
Stuart,  190 

"Lenore,"  375,  394 

"L'Envoi,"  376 

Leonard,  Daniel,  his  Massachusettensis, 
145-146 

Leonard,  William  Ellery,  902 

Leonor  de  Guzman,  489-490 

Leonora:  or,  the  World's  Own,  497 

Lessing,  Gotthold,  408,  419,  613 

"Lesson  of  Balzac,  The,"  698 

Lesson  of  Life,  The,  488 

Let  'Em  Eat  Cake,  940 

"Let  Me  Go  Warm,"  see  "From  the 
Spanish  of  Luis  de  Gongora" 

Letter  Addressed  to  the  People  of  Pied- 
mont, 188 

"Letter  from  a  Candidate  for  the  Presi- 
dency, A,"  449 

Letters  from  America,  see  Amerika-breve 

"Letter  from  William  Penn  ...  to  the  . . . 
Free  Society  of  Traders,"  30 

Letter  to  General  Lafayette,  429 

Letter  to  His  Countrymen,  429-430 

"Letter  to  Mr.  B,"  387 


Letter  to  the  National  Convention  of 
France,  188 

Letters,  of  Abigail  Adams,  185-186,  of 
Henry  Adams,  737,  738,  787,  788,  of 
John  Adams,  145,  [52,  of  Bancroft, 
542m  of  Bellamy,  768,  of  Boker,  489,  of 
Gamaliel  Bradford,  152,  of  Emily  Dick- 
inson, 73011,  of  Emerson,  277,  278,  288, 
289,  608,  of  Forrest,  479,  of  Franklin, 
119,  121,  122,  of  Margaret  Fuller,  274, 
of  J.  H.  Hackett,  234,  of  Hawthorne, 
308,  310,  316,  317,  of  Holmes,  445,  of 
Howells,  671,  of  Irving,  214,  215,  of 
Henry  James,  697,  of  William  James, 
946,  of  Jefferson,  183-184,  of  Lanier, 
633,  of  Longfellow,  325^  347,  34m,  of 
Lowell,  375,  411,  448,  450,  45  m,  456, 
of  Mrs.  Mowatt,  505,  of  Paine,  154,  of 
Poe,  297,  302,  of  J.  W.  Riley,  638,  of 
Simms,  241,  of  Twain,  719,  of  Wash- 
ington, 98,  of  W.  A.  White,  770,  of 
Whitman,  616 

Letters  and  Social  A'nns,  284,  285 

Letters  From  a  Farmer  in  Pennsylvania, 
147-149,  its  fame  in  Europe,  147;  prob- 
able effect  upon  Burke,  147 

Letters  from  an  American  Farmer,  130 

"Letters  from  the  Front,"  569 

Letters  from  the  South,  220 

Letters  from  Under  a  Bridge,  see  A  PAbri 

Letters  Home,  672 

Letters  of  a  Traveller,  253 

Letters  of  Fabius,  183 

Letters  of  Lucius  M.  Piso  from  Palmyra 
to  his  Friend  Marcus  Curtius  at  Rome, 
242 

Lewis,  Charles  B.,  702 

Lewis,  James,  801 

Lewis,  Sinclair,  236,  679,  *854-855,  his 
Main  Street,  854;  Babbitt,  8*4-855;  Ar- 
rows?nith,  854,  85*;  Elmer  Gantry,  855; 
Dodsworth,  855;  871,  913,  925,  940,  942 

"Lexington,"  3*2 

Liberalism  and  Social  Action,  949 

Liberation  of  American  Literature,  The, 
956 

Liberia:  or,  Mr.  Peyton's  Experiment, 
461 

Liberty  Jones,  936 

"Liberty  Poem  for  Asia,  Africa,  etc.," 
see  "To  a  Foil'd  European  Revolution- 
aire" 

Library  of  American  Biography,  533 

"Library  of  Old  Authors,  The,"  421 

Library  of  Poetry  and  Song,  258 

"Life,"  674 

Life  among  the  Modocs,  630 

Life  and  Death  of  John  of  Barneveld, 
The,  532 

Life  and  Gabriella,  916 

Life  and  Voyages  of  Christopher  Colum- 
bus, *2 1 5-2 16,  218,  566 

"Life  in  the  Iron  Mills,"  662 

Life  is  My  Sojig,  863-864 

Life  of  Alice  Freeman  Palmer,  944 

Life  of  Franklin  Pierce,  *433,  434 


1 142 


INDEX 


Life  of  George  Cabot  Lodge,  The,  726- 

Life  of  Harriot  Stuart,  its  claim  as  first 

American  novel,  190 
Life  of  Reason,  The,  947 
Life  of   Washington,  *  2 17-2 18,  220,   386, 

Life  on  the  Mississippi,  *-]i-j,  718 

Life  with  Father,  816 

"Lift  Every  Voice  and  Sing,"  919 

"Ligeia,"  294,  *30i,  302 

Light  in  August,  884-885 

"Lilacs,"  863 

Limpkin,  Grace,  her  To  Make  My 
Bread,  957 

Lincoln,  Abraham,  177,  182,  183,  252,  324, 
361,  378,  379,  424,  426,  428,  433,  442, 
445,  453,  459,  * 464-465,  reply  to  Doug- 
las, 465;  speech  at  nomination  conven- 
tion (1858),  465;  524,  Gettysburg  Ad- 
dress, 573-574;  "Speech  at  Peoria,"  574; 
"Address  at  Cooper  Institute,"  574; 
"Farewell  Address  at  Springfield,  Il- 
linois," 574;  inaugural  addresses,  574; 
600,   610,   614,   627,   667,   704,    844,    870, 

951 

"Lincoln,  the  Alan  of  the  People,"  826 

Linda  Condon,  889 

Lindbergh,  Charles  A.,  892 

Lindsay,  Howard,  941 

Lindsav,  Vachel,  305,  631,  *84o-843,  birth, 
840;  education,  841;  his  "General  Wil- 
liam Booth  Enters  into  Heaven,"  841; 
The  Congo  and  Other  Foems,  841;  The 
Chinese  Nightingale,  841;  his  recita- 
tions, 841;  qualities  of  his  verse,  841- 
842;  "Abraham  Lincoln  Walks  at  Mid- 
night," 842;  "Bryan,  Bryan,  Bryan, 
Bryan,"  842 

Lines  Long  and  Short,  748-749 

"Lines  on  leaving  Europe,"  225 

Linveoods,  The,  237 

Lion  of  the  West,  The,  242,  469 

Lionel  Lincoln,  231 

Lippman,  Walter,  981 

Lisle,  Le  Conte  de,  306 

Literary  America,  393 

Literary  and  Historical  Miscellanies,  524 

Literary  Friends  and  Acquaintance,  675 

Literary  Guild,  976 

Literary  Mind:  Its  Place  in  an  Age  of 
Science,  The,  955 

"Literati   of   New   York   City,  The,"   294, 

*393i  4°9 

Literature  and  Life,  676 
Literature  and  the  American  College,  895 
"Little  Boy  Blue,"  703 
"Little  Breeches,"  636 
Little  French  Girl,  'Fhe,  819 
"Little  Gentleman,"  368 
Little  G  id  ding,  898,  899 
'Link-  Gifren  of    Tennessee,"  465 
Little  Lord  Fauutleroy,  K07 
Little  Norsk,  A,  645 
"Little  Orphan  Annie,"  637 
"Little  People  of  the  Snow,  The,"  254 


Little  Tour  of  France,  A,  683 

Little  Women,  739 

"Littlepage  Manuscripts,"  743 

Live  Woman  in  the  Mines:  or,  Pike 
County  Ahead,  A,  502 

Lives  and  Speeches  of  Abraham  Lincoln 
and  Hannibal  Hamlin,  The,  66j 

Livingston,  William,  his  Philosophic  Soli- 
tude, 55;  edits  The  Independent  Re- 
flector, 98 

Locke,  David  Ross,  569,  647,  702,  703 

Locke,  John,  93,  107,  108,  no,  112,  114, 
139,  145,  407 

Lodge,  George  Cabot,  726-727,  education, 
726;  Poems,  1899-1902,  716;  Cain,  yi6; 
Herakles,  J26;  Poems  and  Dramas,  J26; 
biography  of,  by  Henry  Adams,  726- 
727;  The  Great  Adventure,  727 

Lodge,  Henry  Cabot,  782 

Logan,  221 

Lombard  College,  843 

London,  Jack,  631,  754,  775,  769,  *846- 
847,  his  chief  source,  846;  his  The  Peo- 
ple of  the  Abyss,  846;  Martin  Eden, 
846;  John  Barleycorn,  846;  The  Son  of 
the  Wolf,  846;  The  Call  of  the  Wild, 
846-847;  The  Sea  Wolf,  847;  White 
Fang,  847;  Before  Adam,  847;  954,  974 

"Lone  Striker,  A,"  905 

Lonesome  Road,  921 

Long,  John  Luther,  his  Madame  Butter- 
fly, 808,  824 

Long  Gallery,  The,  926 

Long  Valley,  The,  959 

"Long  Voyage  Home,  The,"  929 

Longfellow,  Henry  Wadsworth,  167,  211, 
258,  274,  293,  296,  308,  309,  313,  321, 
* 3 2 2-345,  universal  quality  of  his  work, 
322-323,  333,  336,  340;  his  democracy, 
323;  birth,  323;  education,  323;  early 
poems,  "The  Battle  of  Lovell's  Pond," 
323;  "Our  Native  Writers,"  323;  studies 
abroad,  324;  appointed  Professor  of 
Modern  Languages,  Bowdoin  College, 
324;  letter  to  Stephen  Longfellow,  324m 
writings  on  foreign  literature,  324;  "De- 
fence of  Poetry,"  324;  marriage,  324; 
Phi  Beta  Kappa  poem,  Harvard,  324; 
translation  of  the  Coplas  of  Manrique, 
324;  Outre-Mer,  324;  further  studies 
abroad,  324;  Smith  Professorship  of 
Modern  Languages,  Harvard,  324;  his 
philosophy  of  life,  324;  Hyperion:  A 
Romance,  325;  Voices  of  the  Night, 
325;  second  marriage,  325;  letter  to 
Hawthorne,  325m  "Mezzo  Cammin," 
326;  Poems  on  Slavery,  326;  his  con- 
tribution to  poetry:  narrative,  Ballads 
and  Other  Poems,  326,  The  Belfrey  of 
Bruges,  326,  The  Seaside  and  the  Fire- 
side,   326,    "The    Skeleton    in    Armor," 

326,  "The    Wreck    of   the    Hesperus," 

327,  "The  Two  Angels,"  327,  "The  Fire 
of  Driftwood,"  327,  "My  Lost  Youth," 
327-328,  his  great  patriotic  utterance, 
"The  Building  of  the  Ship,"  328,  440- 


INDEX 


1143 


442;  narrative  and  legend:  Evangeline, 
328-329,  Hiawatha,  329-331,  The  Court- 
ship of  Miles  Standish,  331;  dramatic 
poems:  The  Spanish  Student,  332, 
Christus:  A  Mystery,  consisting  of  The 
Divine  Tragedy,  332-333,  The  Golden 
Legend,  332,  The  New  England  Trage- 
dies, 332-333;  Tales  of  a  Wayside  Inn, 
333;  his  novel,  Kavenagh,  333;  the  great 
importance  of  his  sonnets,  *333~336; 
other  lyrics,  "The  Children's  Hour," 
336;  scholarly  papers:  "The  Origin  and 
Progress  of  the  French  Language,"  336, 
"Ancient  French  Romances"  336;  "His- 
tory of  the  Italian  Language  and  Dia- 
lects," 339;  influence  of  travel  and  lit- 
eratures upon,  France,  336-337,  Spain, 
337-339,  Italy,  translation  of  Divine 
Comedy,  339-341,  Scandinavia,  341-345, 
Germany,  343-344;  his  influence  in 
Europe,  344-345;  in  America,  344; 
later  poems,  Flower-de-luce,  345,  The 
Masque  of  Pandora,  345,  "Morituri 
Salutamus,"  345,  Keramos  and  Other 
Poems,  345,  Ultifna  Thule,  345,  In  the 
Harbor,  345;  death,  345;  347,  351,  356, 
358,  364,  366,  368,  370,  374,  380,  389, 
392*  393^.  396,  4I0>  .4* ?»  420,  421,  434, 
his  relation  to  politics,  *43 9-443,  at- 
titude toward  slavery,  439-440;  toward 
the  Union,  *44o-443,  helps  sway  British 
sympathies,  442;  464,  465,  469,  497,  534, 
535.  54i,  549.  55i,  562-563,  566,  569, 
574,  591,  620,  623,  624,  626,  627,  632, 
637,  640,  654,  666,  668,  674,  675,  715, 
719,  900,  954 

Longstreet,  Augustus  Baldwin,  his 
Georgia  Scenes,  236,  653,  885 

"Look  Before  and  After,  A,"  453 

Look  Homeward,  Angel,  924 

Looking  Backward,  2000-188'],  590,  765, 
* 767-769,  translations  of,  768,  769 

"Lord  Brougham's  Last  Contribution  to 
Social  Science,"  259n 

Lorentz,  Paul,  960 

Lost  Colony,  The,  921 

Lost  Galleon  and  Other  Tales,  The,  643 

Lost  Lady,  A,  654,  891,  909 

"Lost  Occasion,  The,"  353,  444 

Loti,  Pierre,  589^  686,  687 

Loud  Speaker,  962 

Louis  XI,  512 

"Louis  Lebeau's  Conversion,"  674 

"Love,"  280,  406 

Love  in  '76,  501 

"Love  Sat  At  Ease,"  495 

"Love-Song  of  J.  Alfred  Prufrock,  The," 
874,  875 

"Lovely  Shall  Be  Choosers,  The,"  905 

Lover's  Revolt,  A,  665 

Loves  of  Pelleas  and  Ettare,  870 

Lowell,  Amy,  755,  756,  *862-863,  attaches 
herself  to  the  Imagists,  862;  her  A 
Dome  of  Many-Colored  Glass,  862; 
Sonie  lmagist  Poets,  862;  her  efforts  for 
poetry,  862;  Sword  Blades  and  Poppy 


Seed,  863;  Men,  Women,  and  Ghosts, 
863;  Can  Grande's  Castle,  863;  Pictures 
of  the  Floating   World,  863;  Legends, 
863;   What's   O'Clock,  863;   "Patterns," 
863;    "Lilacs,"    863;    A    Critical   Fable, 
863;  biography  of  Keats,  863 
Lowell,  James  Russell,  223,  244,  258,  268, 
273,  274,  278,  339,  363,  364,  366,  *374- 
383,  compared  with  his  literary  pred- 
ecessors,    374;    birth,     374;    education, 
374-375;  writes  for  Boston  Miscellany, 
Graham's  Magazine,  375;  A  Year's  Life, 
375;    edits    The    Pioneer,    375;    Poems 
(1844),  375;  marriage,  375;   first  prose 
fiction,   375;   early   criticism,   375;  stay 
in  Philadelphia,  writes  for  periodicals, 
375;   The  Fable   for   Critics,   375,  409- 
410;  The  Biglow  Papers  (First  Series), 
375,  449-450;  The  Vision  of  Sir  Laun- 
fal,   375;  letter  to   C.   F.   Briggs,   375; 
travels  in  Europe,  375;  essays  on,  375; 
lectures    on    English    poets,    375;    ap- 
pointed   Professor    of    Modern    Lan- 
guages   and    Belles    Lettres,    Harvard, 
376;    second   marriage,    376;    edits    At- 
lantic Monthly,  376;  The  Biglow  Papers 
(Second    Series),    376,    453-454;    edits 
North  American  Review,  376;  volumes 
of  verse,  Under  the  Willows,  376,  The 
Cathedral,  376;  of  prose,  Fireside  Trav- 
els,  376,  Among  My   Books,   376,  My 
Study    Windows,    376;    further   travel, 
376;  appointed  to  Spanish  Ministry,  376; 
Democracy  and  Other  Addresses,  376; 
Political    Essays,    376,    451-453;    Poems 
(1888),    376;    Lowell    Lectures,    "The 
Old  English  Dramatists,"  376,  420-421; 
death,  376;  the  early  poems,  romantic 
quality,  376;  his  poetic  creed,  376-377; 
his  Abolition  poetry,  the  principle  of 
freedom,    377-378;    on    death,    378;    his 
odes,   378-379;   later  poems,   "The   Ca- 
thedral," 379-380,  "Endymion,"  380;  his 
sonnets,  380;  his  democracy,  380,  381; 
attitude  toward  science,  380;  essays,  on 
travel,  381-382,  history,  382,  nature,  382, 
familiar  essays,   382-383,   on   education, 
383;    385,    389,    393,    397,    his    criticism, 
*4o8-42i,    of   individual    men,    English, 
Continental,    and    American,    409-410; 
judgment   of   the   universal   quality   in 
literature,  410;  on  the  romantic  fallacy, 
411;  on  native  literature,  411;  on  Long- 
fellow, 411-412;   on  Thoreau,  412-413; 
"Emerson  the  Lecturer,"  413;  on  Whit- 
tier,  413;  on  new  writers,  413;  Lectures 
on    English    Poets,    on    Chaucer,    413- 
414;  Spenser,  414;  on  versification,  414; 
on  Milton,  414-415;  Pope,  415;  distinc- 
tion between  the  two  kinds  of  genius, 
416;  on  Wordsworth,  416-417;  "Poetic 
Diction,"  417;   "The  Function   of   the 
Poet,"  417;  on  Keats,  417;  "Shakespeare 
Once  More,"  417-419;  on  Dryden,  419; 
Lessing,    419;    Dante,    419-420;    Gray, 
420;    dramatic    criticism,    420-421;    his 


I 144 


INDEX 


Lowell,  James  Russell   (cont'd) 

limitations  as  a  critic,  421;  relation  to 
politics,  Abolition,  Union,  * 447-457, 
Minister  to  Great  Britain,  447;  letter 
to  G.  B.  Loring,  448;  "The  Present 
Crisis,"  448-449;  letter  to  C.  F.  Briggs, 
450;  to  S.  H.  Gay,  450,  451m,  explains 
The  Constitution,  in  "Democracy,"  455- 
456;  letter  to  C.  E.  Norton,  456;  to 
Holmes,  456;  his  belief  in  politics  as  a 
science,  456;  effect  of  his  political  writ- 
ings, 457;  459,  465,  497,  534,  542,  549, 
563,  572,  574.  576,  591.  593^  59^  603, 
609,  623,  625,  628,  636,  640,  647,  668, 
675,  690,  699,  702,  710,  725,  747,  784, 
827 

"Luck  of  Roaring  Camp,  The,"  515,  643, 
its  influence,  645;  dramatic  version  of, 
791 

Luck  of  Roaring  Camp  and  Other 
Sketches,  The,  642 

"Lucretia  Burns,"  649 

Lucy  Church  Amiably,  866 

Lucy  Gay  heart,  910-91 1 

Lume  Spento,  A,  860 

"Lynchers,"  723 

Lyric  Year,  The,  894 

Lyrics  of  a  Day,  $71 

Lyrics  of  Lowly  Life,  919 

Lyrics  of  the  Hearthside,  919 


"Mabel  Martin,"  351 
Mabie,  Hamilton  Wright,  738 
Macaulay,  T.  B.,  388,  532,  544,  666 
"McClellan  and  Lincoln,"  452 
McCloskey,    J.    J.,   his    Across   the    Con- 
tinent, 799 
McClure,  S.  S.,  825,  My  Autobiography, 

82Q 

McCtillough,  John,  477,  480 

MacDonald,  Cordelia  Howard,  502 

MacDowell,  Edward  Alexander,  his 
Woodland  Sketches,  587;  Indian  Suite, 
^H-;  songs,  587 

AfFingal:  A  Modern  Epic  Poem,  160-161 

McIIenry,  James,  his  The  Usurper,  482 

McKay,  Claude,  his  Banjo,  920 

MacKaye,  Percy,  his  The  Bridge  Builder, 
830:  Mater,  830;  '832-833,  his  The  Can- 
terbury Filgrims,  8; 2;  The  Scarecrow, 
832;  Anti-Matrimony,  H^i;  Yankee 
Fantasies,  832;  This  Fine-Pretty  World, 
N;:;  Sanctuary:  A  Bird  Masque,  832; 
Caliban,  by  the  Yell  ore  Sands,  S32-S33; 
The  Evergreen  'Tree,  833;  927 

MacKaye,  Steele,  K;: 

McKim,  Charles  Follen,  584-585 

McLean,  Robert,  477 

MacLeish,  Archibald,  861,  867,  '971-972, 
his  Fame.  971;  The  Fall  of  the  City, 
971;  Air  Raid,  971;  Public  Speech,  972; 
America  W as  Promises,  972;  The  Ir- 
responsible*, i)- : 

McMaster,  John  B.,  59m,  778,  779,  951- 
95a 


MacMonnies,  Frederick  William,  his 
"Bacchante  with  Infant  Faun,"  583;  bas 
relief  groups,  583;  "Civic  Virtue,"  583; 
war  monument,  583 

Macready,  William  Charles,  468,  472 

"AlacSwiggen,"  165 

McTeague:   A   Story    of  San  Francisco, 

75i.  *752,  754 

McVeys,  The,  648 

Madame  Butterfly,  808,  824 

Madame  Delphine,  653 

Made  in  France,  joy 

Madison,  James,  165,  166,  178,  *  179-182, 
his  account  of  the  Constitutional  Con- 
vention, 179-180;  his  efforts  at  ratifica- 
tion, 180-182;  writes  for  The  Feder- 
alist, 180-182;  his  Paper  Number  X,  181, 
distinction  between  pure  democracy 
and  republic,  181;  Paper  Number  XIV, 
182;  184,  189,  424,  465 

Maeterlinck,  Alaurice,  306,  859,  927 

Maggie:  A  Girl  of  the  Streets,  *755-?56, 
757,  759,  760 

Magnalia  Christ i  Americana,  80-82 

Magnificent  Ambersons,  The,  839 

Magnificent  Yankee,  The,  941 

Mahan,  Alfred  T.,  576,  The  Influence  of 
Sea  Power  upon  History,  779 

Mahomet  and  his  Successors,  217,  218 

Main  Currents  in  American  Thought,  902, 

953 
Main  Street,  854,  855,  871 
Main-Travelled  Roads,  649 
Maine  Question,  The,  501 
Maine  Woods,  The,  271 
Maitland,  James,  585 
Major,    Charles    his    When    Knighthood 

Was  in  Flower,  739,  858 
Major  Andre,  824 
Making  of  Americans,  The,  866 
Malbone,  Edward  Greene,  546 
Malherbe,  Francois  de,  336 
Mallarme,  Stephane,  306 
Malone,  Dumas,  953 
Maltz,  Albert,  961,  962 
Mamba's  Daughters,  918 
"Alan  Against  the  Sky,  The,"  821 
"Man  of  Letters,  The,"  407 
"Alan  That  Corrupted  Hadleyburg,  The," 

715,  719 
"Alan  that  was  Used  Up,  The,"  304 
Man  Who  Came  to  Dinner,  The,  939 
Man  Who  Died  Twice,  The,  822 
Man  With  the  Blue  Guitar,  The,  970 
"Alan  with  the  Hoe,  The,"  826 
"Man  without  a  Country,  The,"  570 
Mandeville,  195 
Manhattan  Transfer,  880 
"Mannahatta,"  612 
"Manners,"  284 
Man's  Woman.)  A,  751,  753 
Man's  World,  A,  927 
Mansfield,  Richard,  795,  824 
Manuductio  ad  Ministerium,  50 
"Ms.  Found  in  a  Bottle,  The,"  293 
Map  of  Virginia,  A,  18 


INDEX 


H5 


"Marais  du  Cyngc,  Le,"  355 

Marble  Faun:  or,  The  Romance  of  Monte 

Beni,  * 3 1 6- 3 1 7 ,  557-558,  559,  681 
March  Hares,  745 
Marching  On,  890 
Marching  Song,  962 
"Marching  through  Georgia/'  571 
Marco  Bozzaris  (Bunce),  501 
"Marco  Bozzaris"  (Halleck),  260,  386 
Marco  Millions,  803,  933 
Mardi,  245 
Margaret,  640 

Margaret  Fleming,  *8o5,  806 
Margaret  Smith's  Journal,  354 
Margret  Howth,  662-663 
Marina,  897 
Marion:  or,  The  Hero  of  Lake  George, 

207 
"Marjorie  Daw,"  593,  626 
Mark  Twain's  America,  7 1 1 
Mark  Twain's  Letters,  709 
Markham,    Edwin,    631,    his    "The    Man 

with  the  Hoe,"  826;  "Lincoln,  the  Man 

of  the  People,"  826 
Marlowe,  832 
Marmion,    adaptation    to    the    American 

situation,  205-206,  its  popularity,  206 
Marquis,  Don,  980 
Married  or  Single,  237 
"Marshes  of  Glynn,"  633 
Martin  Eden,  846 
Martin  Faber,  239 
Marx,  Karl,  783,  943,  954,  955,  956,  957. 

962 
Marxism,  effect  on  literature,  954-962 
Mary  Magdalen,  742 
Mary  of  Scotland,  939 
Mary,  the  Fishermen's  Child,  804 
Maryland  Muse,  The,  55 
"Maryland,  My  Maryland,"  465,  571 
Marzio's  Crucifix,  686,  77on 
Mason,  John,  76 

Masque  of  Alfred  the  Great,  The,  162 
Masque  of  Judgment,  The,  305 
Masque  of  Mercy,  A,  906 
Masque  of  Pandora,  The,  345 
Masque  of  Poets,  A,  730 
Masque  of  Reason,  A,  906 
"Masque   of  the   Red  Death,  The,"   302, 

303 
"Mason  and  Slidell:  A  Yankee  Idyll,"  453 
Massachusettensis,  145-146 
Massachusetts    Institute    of    Technology, 

583,  806 
"Massachusetts  to  Virginia,"  444 
Masterpiece  of  Diplomacy,  A,  798 
Masters,  Edgar  Lee,  721,  his  Across  Spoon 

River,    748;    Spoon    River    Anthology, 

748;  869-870 
Mater,  830 
Mather,    Cotton,    46,    *48-52,    graduated 

from  Harvard,  48;  his  ministry,  48-49; 

other  activities  and  correspondence,  49; 

scholastic  honors,  49;  his  fame,  49;  at- 
tention to  style,  50,  52;  Political  Fables, 

50,  51;  Manuductio  ad  Ministerium,  50; 


"spiritualizing"  essays,  51-52;  his  con- 
ception of  history,  81;  his  Magnalia 
Christi  Americana,  80-82;  89,  96,  con- 
tribution to  magazines,  100;  perception 
in  medicine  and  science,  100-101;  his 
The  Angel  of  Bethesda,  101;  The 
Christian  Philosopher,  101;  114,  influ- 
ence on  Franklin,  117-118;  348,  354,  663 

Mather,  Increase,  47-48,  his  The  Doctrine 
of  Divine  Providence,  47-48;  An  Essay 
for  the  Recording  of  Illustrious  Provi- 
dences, 47-48;  his  clerical  and  political 
activities,  48;  president,  Harvard  Col- 
lege, 48;  Brief  History  of  the  War 
With  the  Indians  in  New-England,  75; 
A  Relation  of  the  Troubles  which  have 
hapned  in  New-England,  75,  76 

iVIather,  Richard,  48,  60 

Mathews,  Charles,  468 

Mathews,  Cornelius,  his  Witchcraft:  or, 
the  Martyrs  of  Salem,  332,  500;  Jacob 
Leisler,  500 

jMatthews,  Brander,  902 

Matthias  at  the  Door,  821 

"Maud  Muller,"  352,  355 

Mauldin,  Bill,  982 

iMaupassant,  Guy  de,  307,  654,  695,  960 

May-Day  and  Other  Pieces,  285 

May  Day  in  Town:  or,  New  York  in  an 
Uproar,  199 

Alayhew,  Jonathan,  138-139,  his  A  Dis- 
course concerning  Unlimited  Submis- 
sion, 138,  143 

"Maypole  of  Merry  Mount,  The,"  36n, 
566 

Meat  out  of  the  Eater,  61 

"Mechanism    in    Thought    and    Morals," 

37i 

"A4eddler,  The,"  158 

Medical  Essays,  364 

Medina,  Louisa  H.,  dramatizes  Nick  of 
the  Woods,  499 

Meditations,  65 

Mein,  John,  92 

"Melanctha,"  865 

Mellichampe,  240 

Melville,  Herman,  115,  *243-247,  birth, 
243;  death,  244;  voyage  to  England, 
244;  Redburn,  244,  245;  Typee:  A  Peep 
at  Polynesian  Life,  244;  Omoo,  244- 
245;  Mardi,  245;  White  Jacket,  245; 
Moby  Dick:  or,  The  Whale,  245-246; 
Pierre:  or,  The  Ambiguities,  246;  Israel 
Potter,  246;  "Benito  Cereno,"  246; 
Piazza  Tales,  246;  "The  Encantadas:  or, 
Enchanted  Isles,"  246;  The  Confidence 
Man,  247;  Billy  Budd,  Foretopman,  247; 
Clarel,  247;  Melville's  use  of  the  sea, 
247;  his  achievement,  247;  313,  571,  701, 
709,  789 

Memoirs  of  an  American  Citizen,  830 

Memoirs  of  an  American  Lady,  219 

Memoirs  of  Stephen  Calvert,  196 

Memoranda  During  the  War,  620 

"Memoriae  Positum,"  454 

"Memories,"  349,  350,  ^44 


1 146 


INDEX 


'•.Memories  of  President  Lincoln,1'   618 

"Memory,"  625 

Men  in  White,  940 

Men,  Women,  and  Ghosts,  863 

.Mencken,  H.  L.,  680,  681,  744^*853-854, 
his  achievement,  853;  editorial  work, 
853;  founds  The  American  Mercury, 
853;  Prejudices,  854;  The  American 
Language,  854;  on  Huneker,  858-859 

Mercedes,  626 

Mercedes  of  Castile,  231 

Merchant  of  Yonkers,  The,  937 

Mercy  Philbrick's  Choice,  730 

Mere  Literature,  950 

".Merlin,"  285-286,  397 

.Merrill,  Stuart,  684 

Merry -Go -Round,  962 

Merrymount:  A  Romance  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Colony,  36n,  530 

Merton  of  the  Movies,  856 

".Message  of  Jeff  Davis  in  Secret  Session, 
A,*'  454 

".Message  to  Garcia,  A,"  573 

Met  amor  a,  469,  471,  rewritten  by  Bird, 
480;  486,  498-499 

Meteor,  939 

".Mezzo  Cammin,"  326,  333 

Mezzotints  in  Modern  Music,  858 

"Miantowona,"  625 

.Michael  Angelo,  340,  543,  562,  563n 

".Michael  Angelo"  (Emerson),  277, 
542 

Michael  Angelo  (Longfellow),  339,  *34o- 
J41,  344,  562 

Michael  Bonham:  or,  the  Fall  of  Bexar, 
501 

Michigan,  University  of,  903 

.Miles,  George   H.,  469,  his  Mohammed, 

486;  DeSoto,  499-500 
Miles  W  allingford,  230,  231 

"Militia  Company  Drill,"  236 

Mil  lay,  Edna  St.  Vincent,  *894-895,  her 
"Renascence,"  894;  A  Few  Figs  from 
Thistles,  894;  Second  April,  894;  Wine 
from  These  Grapes,  894-,  Fatal  Inter- 
view, 894;  Conversation  at  Midnight, 
894;  There  Are  No  Islands  Any  More, 
894;  her  plays,  Aria  da  Capo,  895;  The 
Kings  Henchman,  895 

Miller,  Arthur.  930 

Miller,  Joaquin  (Cincinnatus  Hiner),  575, 
613,  623,  '629-632,  early  years,  629;  his 
Specimens,  629;  Joaquin  et  al.,  629; 
travels,  to  England,  629-630;  Pacific 
I' (jeu is,  630;  Songs  of  the  Sierras,  630; 
Songs  of  the  Sun-Lands,  630;  Life 
among  the  Modocs,  630;  further  travels, 
630;  Songs  of  Italy,  630;  First  Fanflies 
0)  the  Sierras,  630;  The  Danitcs,  630; 
Shadows  of  Shasta,  630;  Songs  0)  the 
Soul,  631;  A  Song  of  Creation,  631; 
Poems  (1909-10;,  631;  The  Building  of 
the  City  Beautiful,  631;  his  contribu- 
tion, 632;  649,  721,  797,  800 
Miller  of  Old  Church.  The,  916 

Mills.  Clark,  559 


Milton,  John,  5,  93,  99,  139,  142,  386,  399, 
408,  414,  487,  527,  708,  904,  969 

"Milton,"  277 

Mimic  Life:  or,  Before  and  Behind  the 
Curtain,  507 

Mind  in  the  Making,  The,  952 

Mingo  and  Other  Sketches  in  Black  and 
White,  656 

"Minister's  Black  Veil,  The,"   321,  729 

Minister's  Charge,  The,  649,  *67i 

Minute  Men  of  1774-1775,  The,  804 

Miscellanies  (Emerson),  290,  439 

"Miss  Furr  and  Miss  Skeene,"  866 

Miss  Ludington's  Sister,  768 

Miss  Lulu  Bett,  855,  870-871 

Miss  Ravenel's  Conversion  from  Seces- 
sion to  Loyalty,  573,  663,  *664,  665,  670 

Missouri,  University  of,.  852 

"Mr.  Buchanan's  Administration,"  451 

Mr.  Crewe's  Career,  890 

Mr.  Dooley  in  Peace  and  War,  836 

Mr.  Inc oid's  Misadventure,  741 

Mr.  Isaacs,  685 

Mr.  Pitt,  870 

Mistral,  Frederic,  640 

Mitchell,  Donald  Grant,  594 

Mitchell,  Margaret,  573,  974 

Mitchell,  S.  Weir,  363,  401,  576,  ^76-778, 
his  Characteristics,  776;  Dr.  North  and 
His  Friends,  776;  "The  Case  of  George 
Dedlow,"  777;  "The  Autobiography  of 
a  Quack,"  777;  In  War  Time,  777; 
Roland  Blake,  777;  Constance  Trescot, 
777;  Hugh  Wynne,  777;  The  Adven- 
tures of  Frangois,  777-778 

"M'liss,"  643 

Moby  Dick:  or,  The  Whale,  245-246, 
probable  source,  245;  structure  of  the 
book,  246;  its  picture  of  the  struggle 
between  man  and  beast,  246 

Modern  Chivalry:  or,  the  Adventures  of 
Captain  Farrago  and  Teague  O'Regan, 
191,  548 

"Modern  Fiction,"  662 

Modern  Honor,  210 

Modern  Instance,  A,  670 

Modern  Italian  Poets:  Essays  and  Ver- 
sions, 668 

Modern  Language  Association  of  Amer- 
ica, The,  383,  596,  764 

Modern  Learning  Exemplified  by  a  Speci- 
men of  a  Collegiate  Examination,  156 

"Mogg  Megone,"  349 

Mohammed,  486 

Moll  Pitcher:  or,  the  Fortune  Teller  of 
Lynn,  504 

Monaldi,  541 

Manikins,  The,  232 

"Monitor,  The,"  96-97 

"Monos  and  Una,"  302,  303 

Monroe,  Harriet,  728,  840,  859,  862,  979 

Monsieur  Beaucaire,  839 

"Monster,  The,"  758,  759 

Mont-Saint-Michel    and    Chartres,    *788, 

t  789,  9.43 
"Montaigne,"  287 


INDEX 


1 147 


"Montaigne:  or,  The  Skeptic,"  407 

Montcalm  and  Wolfe,  781,  782 

"Monte  Cassino,"  341 

"Monthly  Essays,"  98 

Moody,  William   Vaughn,   303,  his  The 

Masque  of  Judgment,  305;  623,  721,  723, 

727,  *826-827,  "Gloucester  Moors,"  826; 

Poems  (1901),  826;  "The  Quarry,"  826; 

"On  a  Soldier  Fallen  in  the  Philippines," 

826-827;  "Ode  in  Time  of  Hesitation," 

827;  The  Great  Divide,  831;  The  Faith 

Healer,  831-832;  927 
Moon  is  Down,  The,  961 
Moon  of  the  Caribbees,  The,  gig 
Moore,   Marianne,   her   Selected   Poems, 

966;  her  technique,  966;  activities  with 

the  Dial,  966-967 
Moore,  Merrill,  922,  924 
"Moosehead  Journal,"  381 
"Moral  and  Devotional  Poetry  of  Spain, 

The,"  338 
"Moral  of  Slavery,  The,"  463 
"Moral  Thought,  A,"  168 
Moran  of  the  Lady  Letty,  751,  753 
More,    Paul    Elmer,    * 895-896,    his    The 

Drift  of  Romanticism,  896;  Aristocracy 

and  Justice,  896;  Shelburne  Essays,  896; 

The  Greek  Tradition,  896,  900,  955 
"Morella,"  302 
Morgan,  Joseph,  his  The  History  of  the 

Kingdom  of  Basaruah,  47 
Morison,  Samuel  E.,  953 
"Morituri  Salutamus,"  345 
Morley,  Christopher,  705,  816,  980 
Mormons:  or,  Life  at  Salt  Lake  City,  The, 

502 
"Morning    on    the    Wissahiccon,"     304, 

55°. 

Morris,  William,  626,  764 

Morse,  S.  F.  B.,  251,  534,  545 

Mortal  Antipathy,  A,  364,  372 

Mortgage  Your  Heart,  913 

Morton,  Nathaniel,  his  New  Englands 
Memorial,  74 

Morton,  Sarah  Wentworth,  190 

Morton,  Thomas,  his  The  New  English 
Canaan,  35-36 

Morton's  Hope:  or,  the  Memories  of  a 
Provincial,  530 

Mosses  from  an  Old  Manse,  310,  319,  391, 
558 

Mother  and  the  Father:  Dramatic  Pas- 
sages, The,  675 

Mother  Goose  for  Grown-Ups,  722 

"Mother's  Ghost,  The,"  341 

"Mother's  Revenge,  A,"  348 

Motley,  John  Lothrop,  36n,  364,  373,  447, 
519,  *530-532,  birth,  530;  education,  530; 
his  novels,  Morton's  Hope:  or,  the 
Memories  of  a  Provincial,  530;  Merry - 
mount:  A  Romance  of  the  Massachu- 
setts Colony,  530;  Rise  of  the  Dutch 
Republic,  530;  The  History  of  the 
United  Netherlands,  531,  532;  his  lim- 
itations as  an  historian,  531-532;  diplo 


matic  offices,  532;  The  Life  and  Death 


53i 
Life 


of  John  of  Barneveld,  532;  death,  532; 
533,  59m,  782 

Moulton,  Louise  Chandler,  727 

Amount,  William  Sidney,  548,  549 

Mountain  Interval,  904 

Mourning  Beco?nes  Electra,  933-934 

"Mouse  that  Gnawed  the  Oak  Tree 
Down,  The,"  843 

Moving  picture,  935,  982-983,  adaptations 
to,  650,  655,  685,  709,  792,  800,  806,  883, 
940 

Mowatt,  Anna  Cora  Ogden,  371,  391,  393, 
* 505-508,  birth,  505;  marriage,  505;  her 
Pelayo:  or,  the  Cavern  of  Covadonga, 
505;  letter  to  her  sister,  505;  Gulzara: 
or,  the  Persian  Slave,  505;  magazine  ar- 
ticles, 505-506;  The  Fortune  Hunter, 
506;  Fashion,  506;  becomes  an  actress, 
507;  her  Armand:  the  Child  of  the 
People,  507;  Autobiography,  507;  sec- 
ond marriage,  507;  Mimic  Life:  or,  Be- 
fore and  Behind  the  Curtain,  507;  death, 
507 

Muir,  John,  771,  772,  892 

Miiller,  Max,  290 

"Mulligan  Guard,  The,"  799 

Munford,  Robert,  164-165,  his  The  Candi- 
dates, 164;  The  Patriots,  164 

Munkittrick,  R.  K.,  722 

Miinsterberg,  Hugo,  943,  944 

Murder  in  the  Cathedral,  897 

"Murders,  The,"  304 

"Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue,"  294,  303 

Murdoch,  Frank  H.,  his  Davy  Crockett, 

799 

Murdoch,  James  E.,  DeSoto  written  for 
500 

Murdock,  J.,  creates  first  Negro  char- 
acter, 520 

Murfree,  Mary  Noailles  (Charles  Egbert 
Craddock),  In  the  Tennessee  Moun- 
tains, 656 

Murry,  Middleton,  963 

Murvale  Eastman:  Christian  Socialist,  770- 
771 

"Musa,"  365 

"Music  Grinders,  The,"  363 

My  Antonia,  908 

My  Autobiography,  S.  S.  McClure,  829 

"My  Double;  and  How  He  Undid  Me," 
570 

My  Friendly  Contemporaries,  650-65 1 

"My  Garden  Acquaintance,"  382 

"My  Hunt  after  the  Captain,"  363 

"My  Kinsman,  Major  Molineux,"  31m 

My  Literary  Passions,  666,  675,  676 

"My  Lost  Youth,"  327 

My  Mark  Twain,  675 

My  Mortal  Enemy,  909,  910 

My  Partner,  800 

"My  Playmate,"  350 

My  Summer  in  a  Garden,  706 

"My  Visit  to  Niagara,"  309 

My  Year  in  a  Log  Cabin,  675 

Mysterious  Monk,  The,  201 

Mysterious  Stranger,  The,  709,  715 


1 148 


INDEX 


'Alystery  of  Marie  Roget,  The,"  303 
Mystery  of  Metropolisville,  The,  647 
Mysticism,   303,  606,  863,   895,  912,  924, 
968 


Napoleon,    286,    287,    408,   456,    573,    707, 

758,  786,  816 
"Napoleon,"  287,  290 

Narrative  of  the  Troubles  with  the  In- 
dians in  New-England,  76-77 

Nasby,  Petroleum  V.,  see  Locke,  David 
Ross 

Nathan,  George  Jean,  853 

Nathan  Hale,  824 

National  Academy  of  the  Arts  of  Design, 

"National  Aristocracy,"  287 

"National     Characteristics     of     the     Six 

Northern  States  of  America,"  287 
National  Ode,  358 
Native  American,  829 
Native  of   Winby   and  Other   Tales,  A, 

658 
Native  Son,  920 
Natural   History    of  Intellect,   The,   280, 

288,  289 
Natural  History    of  Intellect  and  Other 

Papers,  290 
Nature,  discussion  of  in  literature,  35,  99, 

100,  114-115,  132,  167-168,  256,  271-272, 

279-280,  282-283,  335,  377,  401,  734-735, 

759.  771-772,  892 

.    litre,  278,  *279-28o,  281,  398 
feature"  (first  essay),  278 
Nature"   (second  essay),  282 

Nature,  Addresses,  and  Lectures,  285 

Nature  and  Elements  of  Poetry,  The,  628 

Nature  of  True  Virtue,  The,  non,  in 

Nature's  Nobleman,  508 

Navarro,  Ramon,  792 

Neagle,  John,  545 

Neal,  John,  * 2 20-2 2 2,  birth,  221;  his  Otho, 
220;  The  Battle  of  Niagara,  220;  Gol- 
dau:  or  the  Magic  Harper,  221;  Seventy  - 
Six,  221;  Randolph,  221;  Keep  Cool, 
221;  Logan,  221;  Errata,  221;  trip  to 
England,  221;  Brother  Jonathan,  221; 
publishes  The  Yankee,  221;  Rachel 
Dyer,  221;  Authorship,  221;  The  Down 
Easters,  221;  True  Womanhood,  221; 
his  criticisms  of  literature,  221-222,  of 
panning,  2::;  292,  561 

Nebraska,  University  of,  725 

Necessity,  the  Reality,  and  the  Promise  of 
the  Human  Race,  The,  524 

Negro  Question,  The,  654 

Neighbor  Jackwood,  502 

Nets  to  Catch  the  Wind,  894 

\Y\  ins.   Allan,  953 

New  Wood,  823 

■\c\\   Colossus,  The,"  728 

New  Criticism,  The  (Ransom),  923 

"New   Criticism,  The,"    (Spingarn),  902 

New  Deal,  I  he,  950,  955 

New  England  Nun,  A,  659 


"New  England  Reformers,"  284 

New  England  Tale,  A,  237 

New  England  Tragedies,  The,  332 

"New  England  Two  Centuries  Ago,"  382 

New  Englands  Crisis,  59 

New  Englands  Memoriall,  74 

New-Englands  Plantation,  36 

New  Englands  Prospect,  35 

New  English  Canaan,  The,  35 

New  Flag,  The,  748 

New  Found  Land,  867 

New  Freedom,  The,  950 

New  Hampshire,  904 

New  History,  The,  952 

New  Ho?ne— Who'll  Follow?,  A,  236 

New   Humanists,  895,  896,  900,  902,  955 

New  Laokoon,  The,  895 

New  Leaf  Mills,  6jg 

New  Roof,  The,  156 

New  School  for  Social  Research,  852,  952 

New  Voyage  to  Carolina,  A,  28 

"New  Wife  and  the  Old,  The,"  352 

New  York,  College  of  the  City  of,  806 

New  York  Athenaeum  Society,  251 

New  York  Historical  Society,  524,  551 

New  York  University,  517,  924,  967 

Newcomb,  Charles,  287 

Newell,    Robert     Henry,    569,    702,    his 

There  Was  Once  a  Man,  yj6 
Newes  from  Virginia,  54 
News  of  the  Night,  474 
"Newstead  Abbey,"  216 
Newton,  Isaac,  89,  93,  100,  influence  on 

Jonathan   Edwards,    107,    108,    no,    114, 

on  Franklin,  1 17,  145 
"Next  Time,  The,"  695 
Nick  of  the  Woods,  238,  481,  499 
Nicolay,  John  G.,  636 
Nietzsche,  943 
Nigger,  The,  927 
Night  in  Bombay,  840 
Nights  with  Uncle  Remus,  655-656 
1919,  881 

No  Cross  No  Crown,  30 
No  Love  Lost:  A   Romance   of   Travel, 

674 
Noah,  Mordecai  M.,  his  Paul  and  Alexis: 
or,  The  Orphans  of  the  Rhine,  207;  She 
Would  Be  a  Soldier:  or,  The  Plains  of 
Chippewa,  207;  Marion:  or,  The  Hero 
of  Lake  George,  207 
Nobel  Prize  for  Literature,  840,  855,  928 
"Nominations  for  the  Presidency,  The," 

451 

Noon  Wine,  925 

Norman  Maurice:  or,  the  Man  of  the 
People,  501 

Norris,  Frank,  674,  678,  740,  749-754,  his 
The  Responsibilities  of  the  Novelist, 
750;  education,  750-751;  Yvernelle:  A 
Legend  of  Feudal  France,  750;  news- 
paper work  and  war-reporting,  751; 
marriage,  751;  aids  Dreiser,  751;  death, 
751;  McTeague:  a  Story  of  San  Fran- 
cisco, 752;  V  and  over  and  the  Brute, 
752-753;  Moran  of  the  Lady  Letty,  753; 


INDEX 


1 149 


Blix,  753;  A  Marl's  Woman,  753;  The 
Octopus,  753-754;  The  Pit:  a  Story  of 
Chicago,  754;  760,  764,  775-776,  777,  797, 

879,975       .  . 

North  Carolina,  University  of,  920-921, 
924 

North  of  Boston,  904 

North  Pole,  The,  892 

North  Shore  Watch,  The,  725,  902 

"Northern  Lights,"  748 

Northwest  Passage,  890 

Northwood,  461 

Norton,  Andrews,  325,  339 

Norton,  Charles  Eliot,  690,  699,  725,  747 

Norwood,  Henry,  22-23,  ms  A  Voyage 
to  Virginia,  22 

Norwood:  or,  Village  Life  in  New  Eng- 
land, 641 

Not  on  the  Screen,  749 

"Not  Quite  Social,"  905 

Not  Under  Forty,  911 

"Not  Yet,"  254,  428 

Note  on  Literary  Criticism,  956 

"Notes  of  a  Case  of  Too  Good  a  Mem- 
ory," 776 

Notes  of  a  Son  and  Brother,  694 

Notes  on  Novelists,  699 

Notes  on  Walt  Whitman  as  Poet  and 
Person,  61 1 

Notions  of  the  Americans  Picked  Up  by 
a  Travelling  Bachelor,  * 232-233,  429, 
43i,  550 

Notre  Dame,  University  of,  683 

Novanglus  essays,  143-144 

Novel:  What  It  Is,  The,  685 

November  Boughs,  620 

Number  One,  882 

Nunes,  Joseph  A.,  his  Fast  Folks,  502 

"Nuremberg,"  343-344 

Nydia,  494 

Nye,  Edgar  W.  (Bill),  702,  708 


"O  Captain!  My  Captain!"  610 

O.  Henry  (William  Sidney  Porter),  645, 

656,   660,    718,    *837-838,    his    Cabbages 

and    Kings,    837;    The    Four    Million, 

837;  characteristics  and  influence,  837- 

838;  880 
O  Pioneers!  908,  916 
"O  Star  of  France,"  599 
Oak  Openings,  230 
Oakes,  Urian,  50 
"Oblong  Box,  The,"  303 
O'Brien,  Fitz-James,  247,  307,  569,  777 
Observations    concerning    the    Scripture 

Oeconomy,  115 
Observations  on  a    Variety   of   Subjects, 

Literary,  Moral,  and  Religious,  140 
Observations  on  the  Inhabitants,  Climate, 

Soil,  Rivers,  Productions,  Animals, . . ., 

"Occurrence  at  Owl  Creek  Bridge,  An," 

760 
O'Connor,   William    D.,   his    The   Good 

Gray  Poet,  610-61 1 


Octavia  Bragaldi:  or,  The  Confession,  485, 
other  treatments  of  the  Frankfort  trag- 
edy, 485 

Octopus,  The,  75 1,  75  2,  *  75  3  -754,  797 

Octoroon,  The,  *5 1 3,  791 

"Ode  for  the  Fourth  of  July,"  379 

"Ode  in  Time  of  Hesitation,"  827 

"Ode  read  at  the  One  Hundredth  Anni- 
versary of  the  Fight  at  Concord  Bridge, 
19th  April,  1875,"  379 

"Ode  Recited  at  the  Commemoration  of 
the  Living  and  Dead  Soldiers  of  Har- 
vard University,  July  21,  1865,"  378,  379, 
452,  454,  459,  572,  827 

"Ode  Sung  in  the  Town  Hall  of  Concord, 
The,"  439 

"Ode  to  America,"  457 

"Ode  to  Beauty,"  286 

"Ode  to  France,"  377,  378 

"Ode  to  Happiness,"  378 

Ode  to  Sleep,  159 

Odell,  Jonathan,  168,  169 

Odets,  Clifford,  his  Waiting  for  Lefty, 
961;  Awake  and  Sing,  961;  Till  the  Day 
I  Die,  961;  Paradise  Lost,  961;  Golden 
Boy,  961;  Rocket  to  the  Moon,  961 

O'Dowd,  The,  514 

Odyssey,  The,  translation  of,  by  Bryant, 
2^5;  by  Palmer,  944 

"Odyssey  of  the  North,  An,"  846 

Of  Mice  and  Men,  959 

Of  Thee  I  Sing,  940 

Of  Time  and  the  River,  924 

Off  Broadway,  939 

"Office  of  the  People  in  Art,  Governme, 
and  Religion,  The,"  520 

"Oh,  Fairest  of  the  Rural  Maids,"  250 

"Oh,  Mother  of  a  Mighty  Race,"  253 

Or  Man  Adam  and  His  Chilian,  919 

"Old  Age  Echoes,"  615 

Old  Beauty  and  Others,  The,  911 

"Old  Black  Joe,"  636 

Old  Chester  Tales,  870 

"Old  Clock  on  the  Stairs,  The,"  325,  337 

Old  Continental:  or  The  Price  of  Liberty, 
The,  220 

Old  Creole  Days,  653 

Old  English  Dramatists,  The,  376,  420, 
421 

"Old  Esther  Dudley,"  311 

Old  Fogy,  858 

"Old  Folks  at  Home,"  636 

Old  Guard,  The,  241 

"Old  Ironsides,"  362 

"Old  King  Cole,"  820 

Old  Love  Letters,  803 

Old  Maid,  The,  818 

"Old  Man,"  885 

"Old  Man's  Winter  Night,  An,"  904 

"Old  Manse,  The,"  310 

Old  Master  and  Other  Political  Essays, 
An,  950 

"Old  Oaken  Bucket,  The,"  208 

"Old  Pennsylvania  Farmer,  The,"  357 

Old  Plantation:  or,  The  Real  Uncle  Tom, 
The,  502 


1 150 


INDEX 


Old  Regime  in  Canada,  The,  781 

Old  Swimmin'-Hole  and  'Leven  More 
Poems,  637 

Old  Times  in  Middle  Georgia,  653 

Oldmixon,  John,  67 

"Oldstyle,  Jonathan,''  212 

Old  ton- n  Folks,  *  640-641,  642 

Oliver,  Peter,  139 

"Oliver  Basselin,"  337 

Oliver  Wiswell,  890 

Omar  Khayyam,  624 

Omoo,  244-245 

"On  a  Bust  of  General  Grant,"  380 

"On  a  Honey  Bee,"  170 

"On  a  Soldier  Fallen  in  the  Philippines," 
826-827 

"On  Being,"  1 13 

"On  Board  the  '76,"  258 

"On  Lending  a  Punchbowl,"  363 

"On  Poetry  in  its  Relation  to  our  Age 
and  Country,"  257 

"On  the  Capture  of  Certain  Fugitive 
Slaves  near  Washington,"  449 

"On  the  Death  of  Joseph  Rodman 
Drnke,"  260,  261 

"On  the  Electric  Telegraph,"  258 

"On  the  Fall  of  General  Cornwallis,"  170 

On  the  Stairs,  749 

One  Hundred  Days  in  Europe,  364 

120  Millions,  958 

One  Man  and  His  Time,  916 

One  Mans  Initiation,  see  First  Encounter 

One  Man's  Meat,  816 

One  of  Cleopatra's  Nights,  686 

One  of  Our  Girls,  802-803 

One  of  Ours,  909 

"One  Step  Backward  Taken,"  906 

O'Neill,  Eugene,  303,  310,  418,  419,  716, 
740,  7p  1,  803,  913,  *928-934,  European 
recognition,  928;  education  and  travel, 
928;  theatrical  associations,  928-929;  his 
Thirst,  929;  Provineetown  Flays,  929; 
The  Moon  of  the  Caribbees,  929;  The 
Long  Voyage  Home,  929;  Beyond  the 
Horizon,  929-930;  Anna  Christie,  930; 
Difprent,  930;  Gold,  930;  The  Straw, 
930;  The  First  Man,  930;  Welded,  930; 
All  God's  Chillun  Got  Wings,  930,  931; 
Desire  Under  the  Elms,  930,  931;  The 
Emperor  Jones,  930,  9^1;  The  Hairy 
Ape,  930,  931-932;  The  Great  God 
Brown,  930,  932;  The  Fountain,  930; 
Lazarus  Laughed,  932-933;  Marco  Mil- 
iums, 933;  Dynamo,  933;  Strange  Inter- 
lude, 933;  Mourning  Becomes  Electra, 
933;  Ah,  Wilderness,  934;  Days  With- 
out End,  9^4;  The  Iceman  Cometh,  934 

"Onset,  The,"  904 

"Ontario  Steamboat,  An,"  309 

Open  Boat,  The,  758,  759 

Oralloossa,  "477-478,  486,  490 

Oration  before  the  City  Authorities  of 
Boston,  446 

Ordeal  of  Mark  Twain,  I  he,  710 

"Oread,"  864 

Organism,  doctrine  of,  949 


Orient,  the,  influence  of,  280-284,  625, 
687,  895 

"Origin  and  Progress  of  the  French  Lan- 
guage," 336 

Origin  of  the  Feast  of  Purim,  The,  199 

Ormond,  195 

Orphan  Angel,  The,  894 

O'Ruddy,  The,  744,  *759 

Otho,  220,  221 

Otis,  Bass,  545 

Otis,  James,  139,  *i4i-i42,  speech  against 
the  "writs  of  assistance,"  141;  his  A 
Vindication  of  the  Conduct  of  the 
House  of  Representatives,  141;  The 
Rights  of  the  British  Colonies  Asserted 
and  Proved,  141;  The  Rud'nnents  of 
Latin  Prosody,  142;  his  literary  power, 
142;  humor,  142;  145,  146,  163 

Otway,  Thomas,  161 

"Our  Country,"  352 

"Our  Country's  Call,"  254,  428 

"Our  Heroic  Themes,"  459 

Our  Land  and  Land  Policy,  y66 

"Our  Literature,"  409 

"Our  Native  Writers,"  323,  469 

Our  New  West,  642 

Our  Old  Home,  *3 17-3 18,  364 

Our  Town,  937 

"Out  of  the  Cradle  Endlessly  Rocking," 
611-612,  614 

"Out  of  the  Rolling  Ocean  the  Crowd," 
612,  616 

Outdoors  at  Idlewitd.  224 

Outlines  of  Cosmic  Philosophy ,  773 

Outre-Mer,  324,  325,  336,  337,  338 

"Oval  Portrait,  The,"  302 

"Over  the  Hill  to  the  Poor  House,"  637 

Over  the  Teacups,  363,  369 

"Over  There,"  571,  834 

"Oversoul,  The,"  280 

Owen,  Robert  Dale,  his  Pocahontas,  499 


Pace  That  Kills,  The,  742 

Pacific  Poems,  630 

Page,  Thomas  Nelson,  his  "Uncle  Gabe's 
White  Folks,"  638;  652,  656,  In  Ole 
Virginia,  656;  657,  Red  Rock,  739 

Pages  from  an  Old  Volume  of  Life,  364, 
446 

Paine,  John  Knowles,  587 

Paine,  Thomas,  *  151-155;  popularity  and 
influence,  151;  his  Common  Sense,  Ad- 
dressed to  the  Inhabitants  of  America, 
151;  birth,  151;  recommended  by  Frank- 
lin, 151;  editor  of  Pennsylvania  Maga- 
zine, contributor  to  Pennsylvania  Jour- 
nal, 151;  The  Crisis,  151;  support  of 
French  Revolution,  152;  The  Rights  of 
Man,  152;  "Letter  to  the  Addressers," 
152;  outlawed  from  England,  152;  jailed 
in  France,  152;  The  Age  of  Reason,  152; 
the  essence  of  his  skill,  152-154;  letter  to 
Silas  Deane,  154;  to  Elihu  Palmer,  154; 
his  motives,  154;  188 

"Painted  Horses,"  885 


INDEX 


"5i 


Painted  Veils,  858 

Painting,  see  Allied  Arts 

Pale  Horse,  Pale  Rider,  925 

Palfrey,  John  G.,  377,  435,  440,  785 

Palmer,  Erastus  D.,  558-559 

Palmer,  George  Herbert,  943,  his  Life  of 
Alice  Freeman  Palmer,  944;  Autobiog- 
raphy of  a  Philosopher,  944 

"Pan  in  Wall  Street,"  627 

Panic,  971 

Paolo  and  Francesca,  492 

Paradise  Lost  (Odets),  961 

Pardey,  Henry  O.,  his  Nature's  Noble- 
man, 508 

Paris,  Paulin,  336 

Parker,  Horatio  William,  his  Hora  No- 
vissima,  587;  Mona,  587 

Parker,  Theodore,  263,  264,  265,  266,  *269- 
270,  editor,  Massachusetts  Quarterly 
Review,  269;  his  "Education  of  the 
People,"  269;  eulogies,  269;  his  style, 
269;  contributions  to  the  Dial  and  Mass. 
Quart.  Rev.,  269-270;  286,  his  definition 
of  democracy,  455;  574,  724,  735 

Parkman,  Francis,  19,  576,  59m,  642,  773, 
*779~782,  education,  780;  interest  in 
American  Indian,  780;  The  California 
and  Oregon  Trail,  780;  History  of  the 
Conspiracy  of  Pontiac  and  the  War  of 
the  North  American  Tribes,  781;  V as- 
sail Morton,  731;  The  Book  of  Roses, 
781;  "France  and  England  in  North 
America"  series,  781-782;  Pioneers  of 
France  in  the  New  World,  781;  The 
Jesuits  in  North  America  in  the  Seven- 
teenth Century,  781;  The  Discovery  of 
the  Great  West,  later,  LaSalle  and  the 
Discovery  of  the  Great  West,  781;  The 
Old  Regime  in  Canada,  781;  Count 
Front  enac  and  New  France  under 
Louis  XIV,  781;  Montcalm  and  Wolfe, 
781;  A  Half -Century  of  Conflict,  781; 
783,  786,  951,  953 

Parlor  Car,  The,  797 

Parnassus,  290 

"Parrhasius,"  225 

Parrington,  Vernon  L.,  his  Main  Currents 
in  American  Thought,  902,  953 

Partial  Portraits,  651,  699 

"Parting  Word,  The,"  367 

Partisan,  The,  240 

Partisan  Leader:  A  Tale  of  the  Future,  A, 
462 

Parts  of  a  World,  97cm 

Passage  to  India,  *6n,  614 

"Passionate  Pilgrim,  A,"  691 

Passionate  Pilgrim,  and  Other  Tales,  A, 

Past,  The,  252 

Pastorius,  Francis  Daniel,  his  Umst'dndige 

Geographische  Beschreibung,  31 
Pastures  of  Heaven,  The,  958 
Pater  son,  971 
Pathfinder,   The,    226,    *229-23o,   Balzac's 

tribute  to,  234 
Paths  of  Glory,  940 


Patriots,  The  (Kingsley),  183,  941 

Patriots,  The  (Munford),  164 

"Patterns,"  863 

Paul  and  Alexis:  or,  The  Orphans  of  the 
Rhine,  207 

Paul  Fane,  224,  544 

"Paul  Revere,"  333 

Paulding,  James  Kirke,  212,  *i  19-220, 
birth,  219;  his  Diverting  History  of 
John  Bull  and  Brother  Jonathan,  219; 
Koningsmarke:  or,  Old  Times  in  the 
New  World,  219;  The  Dutchman's 
Fireside,  219;  Westward  Ho!  219-220; 
The  Old  Continental:  or,  The  Price  of 
Liberty,  220;  The  Puritan  and  His 
Daughter,  220;  Tales  of  the  Good 
Woman,  220;  Life  of  Washington,  220; 
The  Lay  of  the  Scotch  Fiddle,  220; 
Secretary  to  the  Commissioners  of  the 
Navy,  220;  Letters  from  the  South,  220; 
Slavery  in  the  United  States,  220,  461; 
Navy  Agent  for  New  York,  220;  Secre- 
tary of  the  Navy,  220;  The  Backwoods- 
man, 220;  242;  attitude  toward  Slavery 
and  Union,  461;  464,  469,  503,  548 

"Pauline  Paolovna,"  625 

Payne,  John  Howard,  *  208-2 10,  birth, 
208;  publishes  Thespian  Mirror,  208; 
his  Julia:  or,  The  Wanderer,  208; 
friendship  and  collaboration  with  Irv- 
ing, 208,  209;  success  as  an  actor,  208; 
Brutus:  or,  The  Fall  of  Tarquin,  208- 
209;  Therese,  209;  his  opera,  Clari,  209; 
adaptation  of  Charles  the  Second,  209; 
Richelieu,  209;  wide  acceptance  of  his 
plays,  209-210;  appointed  Consul  at 
Tunis,  210;  death,  210;  mutual  influence 
of  French  drama,  210;  220,  469,  470,  472, 
483,  511,  539 

Peabody,  Elizabeth,  264,  266 

Peabody,  Josephine  Preston,  her  The 
Piper,  832;  Marlowe,  832;  The  Wolf  of 
Gubbio,  832 

Peace  on  Earth  (Maltz  and  Sklar),  962 

"Peace  on  Earth"  (W.  C.  Williams),  970 

Peacock,  T.  L.,  197 

Peale,  Charles  Willson,  534,  *535~536,  por- 
traits of  Washington,  535;  of  Franklin, 
535;  General  Arnaud,  535;  "Billy  Lee," 
535;  Henry  Clay,  535;  John  Quincy 
Adams,  535;  founder  of  Pennsylvania 
Academy  of  the  Fine  Arts,  536;  his 
Museum  of  Natural  History,  536;  self- 
portrait,  536;  second  marriage,  536;  por- 
trait of  Gilbert  Stuart,  536;  549 

Peale,  James,  546 

Peale,  Rembrandt,  222,  534,  *536~537,  por- 
trait of  Washington,  536;  studies  with 
West,  536;  of  John  Houdon,  536;  of 
David  the  neoclassicist,  536;  Lafayette, 
536;  Jefferson,  536;  Bainbridge,  536; 
Decatur,  536;  Perry,  536;  founder, 
Pennsylvania  Academy  of  the  Fine 
Arts,  536;  of  American  Academy  of 
Design,  536;  president  of,  536;  "Port- 
hole   Portrait,"    Washington,    536-537; 


INDEX 


Peak,  Rembrandt  {cont'd) 

equestrian  portrait  of  Washington,  537, 

546 
Fearl  of  Orr's  Island,  The,  658 
Pearson,  Karl,  The  Grammar  of  Science, 

Peary,  Robert  E.,  892 

Peattie,  Donald  Culross,  his  Singing  in 
the  Wilderness,  893;  Green  Laurels, 
893;  Almanac  for  Moderns,  893;  A 
Book  of  Hours,  893;  A  Prairie  Grove, 
893;  Flowering  Earth,  893;  The  Road  of 
a  Naturalist,  893;  Forward  the  Nation, 
893;  Journey  into  America,  893 

Peck,  George  W.,  Feck's  Bad  Boy  and 
His  Fa,  704 

Peck,  Samuel  Minturn,  his  "The  Knot  of 
Blue,"  722 

Feck's  Bad  Boy  and  His  Pa,  704 

Peder  Victorious,  912 

Pal  ay  o:  or,  the  Cavern  of  Covadonga, 
505 

Pelopidas,  472,  475,  478,  480,  481,  486 

Pemberton,  T.  Edgar,  800 

Pembroke,  659 

Pencillings  by  the  Way,  222 

Penhallow,  Samuel,  his  History  of  the 
Wars  of  New-England  with  the  East- 
ern Indians,  76 

Penn,  William,  30-31,  his  No  Cross  No 
Crown,  30;  Some  Fruits  of  Solitude,  30; 
"Letter  ...  to  the  . .  .  Free  Society  of 
Traders,"  30;  127,  354,  470,  522 

Pennsylvania,  University  of,  founding  of, 
91;  98,   116,  162,  191,  473,  552,  778,  902,    J 
951,  Q52,  070 

Pennsylvania  Academy  of  the  Fine  Arts, 
536,  552,  581 

"Pennsylvania  Pilgrim,  The,"  351 

Penrod,  839 

"Pentucket,"  3^1 

People,  Yes,  The,  843,  844 

People  of  the  Abyss,  The,  846 

People's  Lawyer,  The,  503 

Percival,  |.  G.,  2^,  408,  409 

Perc) .  William  Alexander,  his  Sappho  in 
Levkas  and  Other  Poems,  823;  Col- 
lected Poems,  82; 

"Pere  Raphael,"  654 

Perfume  of  Eros,  'Fhe,  742 

Periodical  Literature  of  the  United  States, 

77.V,    JQ2 

Periodicals,  94-100,  569-570,  592-597,  973, 
977-978,  970-981,  first  newspaper,  95; 
first  magazine,  97;  humor  in,  701-705; 
illustration  of,  576-577 

Albany  Evening  Journal,  431,  742 
.■ilta  California,  7 1 2 

American  Architect  and  Building  News, 

The,  58? 
American  Democrat,  430 
American  Historical  Review,  'Fhe,  596 
American  Magazine,  828 
American    Magazine    (Noah    Webster, 

e<!.),  100 


American  Magazine  (William  Smith, 
ed.),  98 

American  Magazine  of  Useful  and  En- 
tertaining Knowledge,  The,  309 

American  Magazine:  or  A  Monthly 
View  of  the  Political  State  of  the 
British  Colonies,  The  (Andrew  Brad- 
ford, ed.),  97 

American  Mercury,  The,  745,  853 

American  Monthly  (Phila.),  323 

American  Musical  Magazine,  The,  99 

American  Quarterly  Review,  The,  385, 
520 

American  Register,  The,  197 

American  Review,  294,  391,  392 

American  Scholar,  980 

Analectic  Magazine,  215 

Applet  oil's  Journal,  653 

Architect,  The,  583 

Arkansas  Traveler,  The,  704 

Atlanta  Constitution,  655 

Atlantic  Monthly,  221,  341,  349,  363, 
368,  Lowell  edits,  376;  377,  433,  434, 
446,  448,  451,  452,  457,  593,  595,  597, 
601,  611,  612,  625,  641,  642,  643,  658, 
665,  667,  Howells  edits,  668;  670,  682, 
690,  691,  709,  717,  730,  739,  774,  777, 
833,  845,  846,  Bliss  Perry  edits,  902; 

977 
Aurora,  The,  469 
Baltimore  Saturday   Visiter,  293 
Baltimore  Sun,  853 
Bibelot,  979 
Bookman,  The,  597 
Boston  Advertiser,  667 
Boston  Courier,  448,  449 
Boston  Evening-Post,  qm 
Boston  Gazette,  143 
Boston  Magazine,  The,  100 
Boston  Miscellany,  375,  409 
Boston  News-Letter,  95 
Boston  Quarterly,  266,  273 
Boston  Transcript,  649,  977 
Broadway  Journal,  294,  375,  Poe  edits, 

^92;  393 

Brooklyn  Eagle,  Whitman  edits,  602 

Broom,  979 

Buffalo  Express,  714 

Burton's  Gentleman's  Magazine,  294 

Carpet-Bag,  704 

Century  Illustrated  Monthly,  The,  577, 
594*  595.  597'  6l2,  647*  650,  654,  655, 
670,  676,  707,  728,  758,  793,  977 

Chap-Book,  The,  596,  979 

Charleston  City  Gazette,  463 

Chicago  Evening  Journal,  646 

Chicago  Morning  News,  703 

Chicago  Record,  656 

Chicago  Record-Herald,  746 

Chicago  Tribune,  746 

Cleveland  Plain  Dealer,  704 

Collier's  Weekly,  592,  650,  828 

Columbian,  The,  505 

Commercial  Advertiser,  234 

Connecticut  Courant   (Hartford),  706 

Connecticut  Journal,  15911 


INDEX 


"53 


Cosmopolitan  Magazine,  The,  595,  672, 
828,  977 

Courier  and  Enquirer,  431 

Critic,  The,  597,  653 

Current  Literature,  738 

Democratic  Review,  266,  505,  526,  603 

Detroit  Free  Press,  802 

Dial,  The,  263,  264,  * 265-266,  269,  271, 
273,  274,  303,  400,  401,  403,  407,  597, 
966 

Every  Saturday,  624 

Everybody's  828,  977 

Evolution,  773 

Forum,  The,  594,  739,  763 

Freeman,  The,  602 

Freeman's  Journal,  166 

Fugitive,  979 

Galaxy,  The,  593,  612,  690,  714 

General  Magazine  and  Historical 
Chronicle  for  All  the  British  Planta- 
tions in  America,  97 

Giglamz,  Ye,  701 

Godey's  Lady's  Book,  391,  393,  461, 
488,  505,  595 

Golden  Era,  The,  631 

Graham's  Magazine,  294,  296,  375,  Poe 
edits,  388;  389,  394,  409,  488,  505 

Hampton's,  977 

Harbinger,  The,  268 

Harper's  New  Monthly  Magazine,  593, 
594^  595,  597^  612,  614,  657,  664,  672, 
677,  687,  706,  708,  709,  723,  732,  763, 

797^  977 

Harper's  Weekly,  579,  637 

Haverhill  Gazette,  348 

Hearth  and  Home,  577,  646,  706 

Home  Journal,  223,  296 

Hound  and  Horn,  Q79 

Illinois  Monthly  Magazine,  The,  235 

Independent,  The,  592,  646,  738 

Independent  Reflector,  The,  98 

Judge,  703,  722 

Kenyon  Review,  980 

Knickerbocker  Magazine,  The,  252,  780 

Ladies'  Home  Journal,  The,  595 

Lakeside  Monthly,  The,  593 

Lark,  The,  596,  979 

Liberator,  The,  460 

Life  (original),  703,  708,  747 

Life  (new  form),  981 

Lippincott's  Magazine,  593,  634 

Literary  Magazine  and  American  Reg- 
ister, 194,  197 

Literary  World,  356,  678 

Little  Review,  979 

McClure's  Magazine,  595,  650,  757,  827, 
828,  907,  977 

Massachusetts  Quarterly  Review,  269 

Masses,  The,  955,  956 

Mirror,  The,    (Willis's),   392,   393 

Monthly  Magazine,  The,  196 

Nation,  The,  594,  667,  668,  690,  746,  896 

National  Anti-Slavery  Standard,  447, 
448 

National  Gazette,  166 

New  England  C  our  ant,  The,  96,  116 


New  England  Magazine,  337,  362,  363 
New-England   Weekly   Journal,  96,  97 
New  England  Weekly  Review,  Whit- 
tier  edits,  348 
New  Orleans  Crescent,  602 
New  Republic,  The,  746 
New  York  Evening  Mirror,  624 
New  York  Evening  Post,  251,  254,  255, 

256,  259,  260,  427,  428,  802 
New  York  Graphic,  612 
New  York  Herald,  713 
New  York  Journal,  758 
New  York  Mirror,  222,  294,  392,  393 
New    York   Morning   Chronicle,    The, 

212 
New  York  Review,  Bryant  edits,  251; 

260,  261 
New  York  Sun,  760,  761,  829,  858 
New  York  Sunday  Mercury,  712 
New  York  T lines,  742,  761,  784 
New  York  Tribune,  295,  355,  356,  431, 
603,  608,  636,  712,  727,  746,  755,  756, 
795,  802 
New  York  Weekly  Journal,  95 
New  York  Weekly  Magazine,  188 
New  York  World,  The,  505,  506,  509, 

626,  758,  829 
New  Yorker,  The,  704,  981 
Newbury  Free  Press,  348 
North  American,  Bird  edits,  481 
North  American  Review,  249,  250,  309, 
324,  325,  336,  339,  341,  Lowell  edits, 
376;  385,  417,  448,  452,  457,  Bird  edits, 
481;  526,  527,  594,  690,  Henry  Adams 
edits,  784 
Ohio  State  Journal,  667 
Old  and  New,  ^93 
Overland  Monthly,  The,  593,  629,  637, 

643,  664,  750 
Pacific  Spectator,  980 
Partisan  Review,  980 
Pennsylvania  Freeman,  Whittier  edits, 

349;  375»  447'  448 
Pennsylvania  Gazette,  The,  97,  116 
Pennsylvania  Journal,  151 
Pennsylvania  Magazine,  151 
Peterson's  Magazine,  488 
Philadelphia  Press,  755 
Philadelphia  Saturday  Courier,  293 
Picayune,  The,  653 
Pioneer,    The,   Lowell    edits,    375;    395, 

409 
Poet  Lore,  596 
Poetry:  A  Magazine  of  Verse,  840,  843, 

859,  862,  864,  971,  979 
Popular  Science  Monthly,  771 
Portfolio   (Dennie's),  197,  199 
Publishers'  Weekly,  590,  592 
Puck,  703,  707,  708 
Puritan  (Munsey's),  595 
Putnam's  Magazine,  246 
Richmond  Enquirer,  507 
Royal  American  Magazine,  The,  100 
St.  Nicholas,  592 

San  Francisco  Examiner,  761,  826 
Sartain's  Union  Magazine,  488 


54 


INDEX 


Saturday     Evening     Post,     The     (old 

form),  355 
Saturday     Evening    Post,     The     (new 

form),  595,  650,  655,  754 
Saturday  Press,  The,  611,  612,  624,  645, 

667,  712 
Scientific  American,  The,  577 
Scribner's  Magazine,  595,  638,  977 
Scribner's  Monthly,  441,  577,  593,  594, 

637,  644,  646,  647,  653,  707,  709,  730, 

743,  773 
Seven  Arts,  834,  979 
Sewanee  Review,  980 
Smart  Set,  853 
Southern  Literary  Messenger,  293,  294, 

302,  356,  387,  395,  462 
Southern  Quarterly  Review,  463 
Spirit  of  the  Times,  The,  703 
Spring-field  Republican,  642,  730,  977 
Stylus,  The,  294 
Territorial  Enterprise,  7 1 1 
Theatre  Arts,  979 
Thespian  Mirror,  208 
This  Quarter,  979 
transition,  979 

Uncle  Rem  us' s  Magazine,  655 
Union  Magazine,  356 
United    States    Literary    Gazette,    250, 

323,  339 

United  States  Magazine,  165-166 

United  States  Review,  260 

United    States    Review    and    Literary 
Gazette,  251 

Universal  Asylum  and  Columbia?!  Mag- 
azine, 193 

Utica  Observer,  J42 

Vanity  Fair,  704 

Virginia  Gazette,  96-97 

Virginia  Quarterly  Review,  980 

Wave,  The,  750,  751 

Week,  The,  271,  273 

Weekly  Magazine,  193,  194,  196 

Western  Messenger,  265 

Yale  Review,  980 

Yankee,  The,  221,  293 
Perkins,  Eli,  see  Landon,  A4elville  D. 
Perry,  Bliss,  8i4n,  902 
Perry,  Thomas  Sergeant,  738 
"Persian  Poetry,"  284 
Personae,  860 

Personal  Memoirs  of  U.  S.  Grant,  590 
"Personal  Poems,"  444 
Personal   Recollections  of  Joan   of  Arc, 

7 '9 
Peter  Ashley,  918 

Peter  Pilgrim:  or,  A  Rambler's  Recollec- 
tions, 2^8-239 
Pcterkin,  Julia,  her  Scarlet  Sister  Mary, 

919 
Petrarch,  ^41 

Phases  of  an  Inferior  Planet,  915 
Phelps,  Elizabeth  Stuart,  her  Beyond  the 

Gates,  715;  954 
Phelps.  \\  illiani  Lyon,  902 
Phi  Beta  Kappa  Address  (Harvard),  Em- 
erson's, 284,  ^24;  Holmes',  371 


Phi  Beta  Kappa  Poem  (Harvard),  Boker's 
459;  Bryant's,  250;  Holmes',  362,  445; 
Longfellow's,  324;  Taylor's,  356 

Philadelphia,  Library  Company  of,  91 

Philadelphia  Story,  The,  936 

Phillips,  David  Graham,  665,  829,  his  "The 
Treason  of  the  Senate,"  829;  Susan 
Lenox:  Her  Fall  and  Rise,  829 

Philosophic  Solitude,  55 

Philosophical  Opinion  in  America,  948 

Philosophy  and  Civilization,  949 

"Philosophy    of    Composition,"    * 394-395, 

397 
Philosophy  of  Disenchantment,  The,  741 
Philosophy  of  Loyalty,  The,  945 
Philothea,  237 
"Physiology   of   Versification,"    *  3  69-3  70, 

402 
Piatt,  John  James,  667 
Piazza  Tales,  246 
"Picker  and  Piler,  The,"  223 
Picture  of  St.  John,  The,  359 
"Pictures  from  Appledore,"  377 
Pictures  of  the  Floating  World,  863 
Picturesque  America,  259 
Pierce,  Charles  S.,  946 
Pierre:  or,  The  Ambiguities,  246 
Pike  County  Ballads,  636,  682 
Pilgrim's  Progress,  46 
"Pilgrim's  Vision,  The,"  371 
Pillar  of  Fire,  242 
Pilot,  The,  *2  28,  relation  to  Scott's  The 

Pirate,  228;  230,  234 
"Pilot's  Story,  The,"  674 
"Pioneer,  The,"  236 
Pioneers,  The,  *2  28,  430 
"Pioneers!  O  Pioneers!"  610 
Pioneers  of  France  in  the  New  World, 

781 
Piper,  The,  832 
Pit:  A  Story  of  Chicago,  The,  751,  *754, 

dramatized,  754 
"Pit  and  the  Pendulum,  The,"  195,  566 
Pity  is  Not  Enough,  957 
"Place    of    the    Independent    in    Politics, 

The,"  456 
"Plain  Language  from  Truthful  James," 

637,  643 
"Planter,  The,"  99 
Plato,  139,  286,  287,  398,  399,  400,  402,  405- 

406,  542,  561,  766,  896,  948 
"Plato:   or,  The  Philosopher,"  287,  *405- 

406 
Playing  the  Mischief,  665 
"Plea  for  Romantic  Fiction,  A,"  750 
"Plea  for  the  Poor,  A,"  127 
Plow  that  Broke  the  Plains,  The,  960 
Plum  Tree,  The,  66s 
Pluralistic  Universe,  A,  957 
"Plutarch,"  287,  408 
Pocahontas  (Owen),  499 
Pocahontas:   or,  the  Settlers  of   Virginia 

(Custis),  499 
Pocahontas:  or,  the  Gentle  Savage,  499 
Poe,  Edgar  Allan,  167,  195,  221,  224,  240, 

241,  254,  274,  286,  *292~307,  birth,  292; 


INDEX 


ll55 


education,  293;  Tamerlane  and  Other 
Poems,  293,  297;  Al  Aaraaf,  Tamerlane 
and  Minor  Foe?ns,  293,  297-298;  Foems 
by  Edgar  A.  Foe  (1831),  293,  298;  pub- 
lication of  stories,  "Metzengerstein,  293, 
The  Ms.  Found  in  a  Bottle,  293;  edits 
Southern  Literary  Messenger,  293,  294; 
Arthur  Gordon  Pym,  294;  "Ligeia," 
294;  "The  Haunted  Palace,"  294;  Tales 
of  the  Grotesque  and  Arabesque,  294; 
co-edits  Burton's  Gentleman's  Maga- 
zine, 294;  edits  Graham 's  Magazine,  294; 
"Murders  in  the  Rue  Morgue,"  294; 
"The  Gold  Bug,"  294;  Prose  Romances, 
294;  with  New  York  Mirror,  294; 
Broadway  Journal,  294;  Tales  (1845), 
294;  The  Raven  and  Other  Poems,  294, 
<T§2s  "The  Literati  of  New  York  City," 
294,  393;  Eureka,  294-295;  death,  295; 
slanders  against,  by  Griswold,  295-296; 
defenses,  by  Willis,  Graham,  295-296; 
his  poetry,  297-301,  the  themes,  297; 
early  poems,  297-298;  letter  to  Isaac 
Lea,  297;  "Science,"  298;  ^Ronia»cef 
298;  "Fairyland,"  298;  "To  Helen,"  298- 
299;  "Israfel,"  299;  his  poetic  theory, 
298-299,  301;  the  supernatural  lyric,  299- 
300;  feeling  toward  allegory,  300;  his 
fiction,  301-304;  the  Arabesques,  301- 
303;  theme^andl-ffi^Ujd^o  1-302;  letter  to 
T.  W.  White,  3027tne°~fupernatural, 
302-303;  mysticism,  reality  of  image, 
303;  science  and  pseudo-science,  303; 
the  Grotesques,  303;  the  detective  story, 
303-304;  descriptive  stories,  304;  the 
long  story,  304;  his  sources,  304-305; 
his  influence,  305-306;  319,  320,  321,  322, 
328,  352,  356,  359,  361,  375,  384,  385,  386, 
his  critical  works,  *387-397;  "Letter  to 
Mr.  B.,"  387;  his  critical  theories,  387- 
388;  on  Drake,  387,  388;  on  Halleck, 
387,  388;  "Veneration  and  Ideality," 
387-388;  distinction  between  Imagina- 
tion and  Fancy,  388;  on  Bryant,  388; 
in  Graham's  Magazine,  388-390;  con- 
trasts Dickens  and  Bulwer,  388;  on 
Macaulay,  388-389;  "The  Quacks  of 
Helicon,"  the  evils  of  criticism, 
389;  Exordium,  universality  in  art,  the 
nature  of  criticism,  389;  on  Longfellow, 
389,  restatement  of  critical  theory,  defi- 
nition of  poetry,  389-390;  on  Haw- 
thorne, defines  short  story,  390-391; 
his  Politian,  391;  dramatic  criticism, 
391-392;  on  Mrs.  Mowatt's  Fashion,  391; 
proposed  series  surveying  American 
drama,  391-392;  concern  with  plot,  391- 
392;  on  Willis's  Tortesa  the  Usurer, 
392;  Longfellow's  Spanish  Student,  392; 
Elizabeth  Barrett's  The  Drama  of  Exile 
and  Other  Poems,  392;  the  "Longfellow 
War,"  392-393;  the  unfinished  Literary 
America,  393-394;  "Philosophy  of  Com- 
position," borne  out  in  his  poems,  394- 
395;  on  versification,  395-396;  "Notes 
upon  English  Verse,"   later  "The  Ra- 


tionale of  Verse,"  395;  "The  Poetic 
Principle,"  396;  his  large  output,  396; 
the  "Marginalia,"  396;  influence,  in 
America,  397,  in  France,  397;  402,  404, 
409,  418,  462,  464,  472,  474,  482,  483,  485, 
507,  535.  54*»  543.  55°.  561-562,  566,  572, 
581,  591,  604,  614,  620,  623,  624,  628,  632, 
633,  643,  649,  686,  723,  725,  727,  760,  777, 
925,  968,  973 

Poem  on  Industry,  189 

Poem  Outlines,  635 

Poems  and  Ballads  of  Heinrich   Heine, 

727 
Poe?ns  and  Dramas,  726 
Poems  of  Edgar  A.  Poe    (1831   edition), 

293,  387 

Poems  of  Passion,  721 

Poems  of  Sidney  Lanier,  634 

Poems  of  the  Orient,  356 

Poems  of  the  War,  571 

Poems  of  Two  Friends,  667 

Poems  on  Several  Occasions,  54 

Poems  on  Slavery,  326,  411,  440 

"Poet,  The"  (Bryant),  254,  255 

"Poet,  The"  (Emerson),  280,  282,  401 

Poet  at  the  Breakfast  Table,  The,  363, 
*  3 68-3  69,  comments  on  current  ideas, 
368;  the  rational  applied  to  the  super- 
natural, 368;  on  Darwin,  368-369;  373 

"Poetic  Diction,"  *4i7,  421 

"Poetic  Principle,  The,"  396,  541 

"Poetry:  A  Metrical  Essay,"  362 

"Poetry  and  Criticism,"  278 

"Poetry  and  Imagination,"  289,  402 

Poetry  of  Tennyson,  The,  726 

Poetry  of  the  War,  364 

"Poetry  To-day  in  America,"  621 

"Poets  and  Poetry  of  the  English  Lan- 
guage," 258,  * 386-387 

"Poet's  Hope,  A,"  274 

Poet's  Journal,  The,  357 

Poets  of  America,  628 

Poganuc  People,  641 

"Politian,"  301,  391,  485 

Political  Essays  (Lowell),  376,  447,  452 

Political  Fables,  50,  *$i 

Political  parties: 

Federalist  Party,  100,  152,  165,  166,  176, 
183,  186,  187,  189,  197,  199,  423-424, 
425,  426,  427,  429,  464 
Democratic  Party  (party  of  leader- 
ship), 186,  early  name,  191,  424;  205, 
423-425,  426,  427,  429,  432,  433,  435, 
43.7,  446,  457.  461,  464.  600,  768 
Whig  Party,  233,  235,  423-424,  426,  429 

43i,  435-436,  437.  44o,  443.  444.  450- 
451,  460,  462,  464 
Republican    Party     (party    of    institu- 
tions), 423-424,  445,  446-447,  451,  454, 
464,  765,  768 

"Politics,"  435 

Pomeroy,  Marcus  M.  (Brick),  702 

Ponteach  or  the  Savages  of  America, 
163 

Poor  Fool,  885 

Poor  of  New  York,  The,  513 


1 156 


INDEX 


Poor  of  Liverpool,  The,  see  Poor  of  New 

York,  The 
Poor  Richard's  Almanac,  116 
Poor  White,  872 
Pope,  Alexander,  55,  59,  93,  96,  99,   142, 

169,  186,  187,  255,  361,  399,  415,  421,  666, 

"Pope,"  421 

Popular  History  of  the  United  States, 
428 

Porgy,  918,  dramatized  as  Porgy  and  Bess, 
918 

Porter,  Katherine  Anne,  her  Flowering 
Judas,  925;  Hacienda,  925;  Pale  Horse, 
Pale  Rider,  925;  Noon  Wine,  925;  The 
Leaning  Tower,  925 

Portion  of  Labor,  The,  659 

"Portrait  d'une  Femme"  (Pound),  860 

Portrait  of  a  Lady,  The  (James),  693 

"Portrait  of  a  Lady"  (T.  S.  Eliot),  860 

"Portrait  of  Mabel  Dodge  at  the  Villa 
Curonia,"  866 

Portraits  of  Places,  683 

Porv,  John,  20 

Pot  of  Earth,  The,  867 

Pound,  Ezra,  his  influence,  the  Imagist 
movement,  859,  861-862;  his  Utopian 
dream  and  its  results,  860;  his  Cantos, 
860,  861;  A  Lume  Spent o,  860;  "Ballad 
of  the  Goodly  Fere,"  860;  Cathay,  860; 
"Portrait  d'une  Femme,"  860;  Quia 
Pauper  Amavi,  860-861;  his  critical 
works,  The  Spirit  of  Romance,  861; 
Culture,  861;  863,  867,  874,  967,  970 

"Power  of  Fancy,  The,"  165 

Power  of  Sympathy,  The,  first  American 
novel,  *  190;  201 

Powers,  Hiram,  557 

Pragmatism,  946 

Prairie,  The,  229 

Prairie  Folks,  649 

Prairie  Grove,  A,  893 

Prairie  Songs,  650 

Prairie  Years,  The,  844 

"Prairies,    The,"  252 

"Praise  for  an  Urn,"  969 

Pratt,  Sarah,  659-660,  her  Cape  Cod  Folks, 
650,  660 

"Prattler,  The,"  99 

"Prayer  of  Agassiz,  The,"  353 

"Prayer  of  Columbus,"  606,  612 

Precaution,  iz-j 

Prejudices,  854 

Prescott,  William  Hickling,  193,  216,  217, 
238,  $85,  J87,  400,  477,  his  standards  for 
the  writing  of  history,  519;  *525-53o, 
birth,  525;  education,  525;  his  "Essay 
Writing,"  526;  History  of  the  Reign  of 
Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  the  Catholic, 
526-527;  his  critical  essays:  "Italian  Nar- 
rative Poetry,"  527,  on'  Charles  Brock- 
den  Brown,  527,  Irving,  527,  Bancroft, 
527,  "English  Literature  in  the  Nine- 
teenth Century,"  527;  his  style,  527- 
^2K;  A  History  of  the  Conquest  of 
Mexico,    528-529;    A    History    of    the 


Conquest  of  Peru,  528-529;  The  His- 
tory of  the  Reign  of  Philip  the  Second, 
529;  death,  529;  recognition  and  trans- 
lation, 529-53°;  532>  533,  59m>  782 

"Present  Crisis,  The,"  448-449 

"Present  State  of  Ethical  Philosophy, 
The,"  278 

"President's  Policy,  The,"  452 

Pretty  Story,  A,  157,  219 

Prince,  Thomas,  44,  77,  82,  his  A  Chron- 
ological History  of  New  England  in 
the  Form  of  Annals,  82;  first  objective 
historian,  82;  96 

Prince  and  the  Pauper,  The,  717 

Prince  Deukalion,  359 

Prince  of  India,  The,  590,  792 

Prince  of  Parthia,  The,  99,  161,  *i62,  163, 
190,  51 1 

Prince  of  the  House  of  David,  The,  242 

Princess  Casamassima,  The,  693,  954 

Princeton  University,  founding  of,  91, 
164,  165,  191,  487-488,  726,  888,  928, 
950 

Principles  of  Psychology,  The,  946 

Private  Hicks,  962 

"Problem,  The,"  280 

Probus,  242 

Professor,  The,  806-807 

Professor  at  the  Breakfast  Table,  The, 
363,  365,  * 367-368,  treatment  of  senti- 
ment, 367;  revelation  of  Holmes'  faith, 
367-368;  373 

Professor's  House,  The,  909 

Progress  and  Poverty,  766 

"Progress  of  Culture,  The,"  289 

Progress  of  Dtilness,  The,  *  159- 160,  161 

"Progress  of  the  World,  The,"  380 

Progress  to  the  Mines,  32 

Proletarian  Literature  in  the  United 
States,  958 

Prometheus  Pyrphoros,  727 

"Prophecy  of  Samuel   Sewall,   The,"   352 

Prophet  of  St.  Paul's,  The,  482 

Proposals  Relating  to  the  Education  of 
Youth  in  Pennsilvania,  1 1 6 

Prose  Romances,  294,  304 

Pro-Slavery  Argument,  The,  463 

"Prospect  of  the  Future  Glory  of  Amer- 
ica," 159 

Prospectus  of  a  National  Institution,  189 

Protestantism,  7,  10,  14,  15,  16,  35,  37, 
72-82,  85,  99,  101-102,  770,  see  also 
Anglicanism,  Friends,  Society  of,  Pur- 
itanism, Unitarianism 

"Proud  Music  of  the  Sea-Storm,"  612 

Provincetown  Plays,  929 

Prnfrock  and  Other  Observations,  874 

"Psalm  of  Life,  A,"  343,  344 

"Psalm  of  the  West,"  634 

Public  Speech,  972 

Publication  of  books,  in  the  Colonies,  13, 
15,  28,  67,  91-92;  nineteenth  century 
cheap  reprints  and  their  effect,  588- 
591;  twentieth  century  conditions,  wade 
distribution,  975-976,  the  book  clubs, 
976,  the  effect  of  business,  977-978 


INDEX 


ii57 


Pulitzer  Prize,  839,  856,  863,  867,  871,  902, 
917,  918,  930,  939,  940,  974 

Punch:  The  Immortal  Liar,  867 

Puppet-Booth,  The,  748 

"Pure  Wisdom  and  Human  Policy,"   127 

Puritan  and  His  Daughter,  The,  220 

Puritanism,  14-15,  26,  35-52,  54,  55,  56-57, 
60,  61,  71-82,  86,  87,  89,  90,  101,  109, 
lll>  i37i  i39»  H5>  161,  207,  279,  347,  351, 
354,  368,  382,  402,  508,  530,  558,  953 

"Puritanism  in  American  Fiction,"  678 

"Purloined  Letter,  The,"  303 

"Purple  Cow,"  722 

Putnam,  Israel,  500 

Putnam:  The  Iron  Son  of  '76,  500-501 

Pyle,  Ernie,  981,  982 

Pylon,  884 


"Quacks  of  Helicon,  The,"  389 

Quad,  M.,  see  Lewis,  Charles  B. 

Quadroon,  The,  513 

"Quaker  Widow,  The,"  357 

Quakers,  see  Friends,  Society  of 

Quality  of  Mercy,  The,  672 

"Quarry,  The,"  826 

"Queen's  Last  Ride,  The,"  721 

"Question  of  Our  Speech,  The,"  698 

Quia  Pauper  Amavi,  860-861 

Quick,  Herbert,  his  Vandemark's  Folly, 
891 

Quick  or  the  Bead?  The,  * 740-741,  dram- 
atized, 791 

"Quotation  and   Originality,"  402 

Rabble  in  Arms,  890 

"Race,"  288 

Rachel  Dyer,  221 

Radcliffe  College,  865 

Radio,  982,  983 

Rains  Came,  The,  840 

Raleigh,  Walter,  66n 

Ramona,  630,  764 

Ramus  (Pierre  de  la  Ramee),  38,  40 

Randall,  J.  R.,  "Maryland,  My  Mary- 
land," 465 

Randolph,  221,  561 

Ransom,  John  Crowe,  editor  of  Kenyon 
Review,  922;  his  Selected  Poems,  922; 
critical  works,  God  Without  Thunder, 
qi^The  World's  Body,  923,  The  New 
Criticism,  923;  "Criticism  as  Pure  Spec- 
ulation," 923;  his  influence,  923;  recent 
shift  in  emphasis,  923 

"Rappaccini's  Daughter,"  311 

Rathbone,  Basil,  806 

"Rationale  of  Verse,  The,"  395 

"Raven,  The,"  294,  *299,  394,  395,  566 

Raven  and  Other  Poems,  The,  294,  297 

Rawlings,  Marjorie  Kinnan,  918 

Raymond,  John  T.,  716 

Reactionary  Essays  on  Poetry  and  Ideas, 
924,  969n 

Read,  Opie,  his  The  Jucklins,  704 

Read,  T.  Buchanan,  552 


Realism,  649-650,  *66 1-680,  745,  749,  750, 

760,  792,  803,  839,  845,  918 
"Realism,"  622 
Realms  of  Being,  The,  947 
Reason  in  Madness,  924 
"Rebellion,  The,"  452 
Rebels,  The,  237 
Reconstruction,  post-Civil  War,  452-453, 

633>  639,  651,  655,  765,  914,  958 
"Reconstruction,"  452 
Red  Badge   of  Courage,   The,  573,   755, 
*757-758,  759 
Red  Pony,  The,"  959 
Red  Rock,  739 

Red  Rover,  The,  230,  231,  234 
"Red  Sky  of  the  Morning,  The,"  236 
Redburn,  244,  245 

Re-Discovery  of  America,  The,  956 
"Redjacket,"  261,  549 
Redskins,  The,  232 
Redwood,  237,  385 
Reed,  John,  his  Ten  Days  that  Shook  the 

World,  955 
Reese,  Lizette  Woodworth,  728,  822,  her 
A  Branch  of  May,  822;  Selected  Poems, 
822;  "Tears,"  822 
Rehan,  Ada,  801 
Reid,    Mayne,    his    The    Quadroon,    513, 

642 
Reign  of  Law,  The,  657 
Relation  of  Literature  to  Life,  The,  706 
Relation    of    the    Troubles    which    have 

hapned  in  New-England,  A,  75 
"Religion,"  288 

Religions  Aspect  of  Philosophy,  The,  945 
"Reluctance,"  904 
Remarks  on  the  Essays  on  the  Principles 

of  Morality  and  Religion,  no 
"Rembrandt  to  Rembrandt,"  822 
Reminiscences  of  an  American  Loyalist, 

140 
Remorse,  see  Richelieu 
Removing  the  Deposits,  501 
"Renascence,"  894 

Repplier,    Agnes,    652,     81411,    816,     her 
Books  and   Men,  816;   Eight  Decades, 
816 
Representative   Men,   284,    * 286-287,    290, 

404 
Republic,  Madison's  definition  of,  181 
Republican  Dissected,  The,  150 
Rescue,  The,  819 

Resignation:  An  American  Novel,  243 
Responsibilities  of  the  Novelist,  The,  678, 
t  75o 

"Resurgemus,"  see  "Europe";  also  604 
"Retirement,"  168 
"Retrospective  Glance,  A,"  428 
"Return  of  the  Goddess,  The,"  356 
Return  of  the  O'Mahoney,  The,  744,  745, 

753 
Reuben  and  Rachel,  192 
Revere,  Paul,  his  engravings,  100 
Reverend  Griffith  Davenport,  The,  799 
Revolution,  American,   136-155,  the  non- 
Anglican    preachers:    John   Wise,    136- 


i58 


INDEX 


Revolution,  American   {cont'd) 

138,  Jonathan  Mayhew,  138-139;  Angli- 
can divines:  Jacob  Duche,  140, 
Jonathan  Boucher,  140;  patriot  lawyers: 
Daniel  Dulany,  141,  James  Otis,  141- 
142,  John  Adams,  142-145;  Tory  law- 
yers: Joseph  Galloway,  145-146,  John 
Dickinson,  146-149;  Samuel  Seabury, 
149-15 1 ;  Thomas  Paine,  151-154;  see 
also  Franklin,  Hamilton,  Jefferson;  ef- 
fect of,  on  drama,  164,  on  poetry,  165, 
on  literature,  171;  treatment  of  in  lit- 
erature, 187,  207-208,  217-218,  220,  221, 
230,  231,  239,  240,  246,  379,  500-501,  521, 
522,  524,  658,  743,  777,  890,  891,  892, 
921;  as  subject  for  painting,  535,  538; 
music  of,  563 

"Rhapsodist,  The,"  193 

Rhodes,  James  Ford,  779,  951 

"Rhodora,  The,"  265,  280,  286,  397 

Rhymes  of  Travel,  356 

Ribbemont:  or,  The  Feudal  Baron,  201 

Rice,  Elmer,  his  The  Adding  Machine, 
962;  Street  Scene,  962;  The  Flight  to 
the  West,  962 

Rice,  Thomas  D.,  promotes  Negro  song 
and  dance,  510 

Rich,  Richard,  his  Newes  from  Virginia, 

54 

Richard  Carvel,  739 

"Richard  Cory,"  305 

Richard  Hurdis,  240-241 

Richards,  I.  A.,  963 

Richardson,  Henry  Hobson,  584-585 

Richardson,  Samuel,  99,  672 

Richelieu,  *209,  215 

Richter,  Conrad,  his  Early  Americana, 
8o~i;  Sea  of  Grass,  891;  Tacey  Crom- 
well, 891-892;  The  Trees,  892;  The 
Fields,  892;  The  Free  Man,  892;  Al- 
ways Young  and  Fair,  892 

Richter,  Jean  Paul,  266,  343,  633 

Ricketson,  Daniel,  his  The  Factory-Bell: 
And  Other  Poems,  765;  "Free  Trade, 
Free  Soil,  Free  Men,"  765 

"Riddle  Song,  A,"  615 

Kuling.  I. aura,  922 

Riggs,  Lynn,  92 1 

Rightful  Remedy:  Addressed  to  the 
Slaveholders  of  the  South,  The,  464 

Rights  of  Man,  The,  152 

Rights  of  the  British  Colonies  Asserted 
and  I' roved.  The,   141 

Riley,  James  Whitcomb,  62^,  631,  *637- 
638,  liis  The  Old  Svci  mini  if -Hole  and 
*Leven  More  I'oe/us,  637*,  "When  the 
Frost  is  on  the  Punkin,"  6^7;  "Little 
Orphan  Annie,"  637;  letter  to  Kipling, 

638;  721,  H58 

Rimbaud,  Arthur,  857,  859,  968 

Rip  Van  Winkle,  214,  426,  dramatized, 
469;  dramatized  by  'an  Albanian";  509; 
D)  John  Kerr,  509-5 10;  by  Charles 
Burke,  cio;  English  version,  510;  by 
Joseph  Jefferson  the  third,  510;  revised 
1>\  Boucicault,  510;  552, 566,  791,  891, 968 


Ripley,  George,  264,  first  president  of 
Brook  Farm,  265;  266,  *  268-269,  edits 
The  Harbinger,  268;  literary  editor  of 
New  York  Tribune,  269 

Ripostes,  862 

Rise  of  Silas  Lap  ham,  The,  *  670-6-]  1, 
dramatized,  798 

Rise  of  the  Dutch  Republic,  530 

"Rising  Glory  of  America,  The,"  165 

River,  The,  960 

Rivers  to  the  Sea,  893 

Rives,  Amelie,  her  The  Quick  or  the 
Dead?  740;  791 

Road  of  a  Naturalist,  The,  893 

Roadside  Meetings,  650-651,  756n,  8o5n 

Roamer,  The,  902 

Roan  Stallion,  878,  879 

Rob  of  the  Bowl,  239 

"Robert  Burns  as  Poet  and  Person,"  621 

Robert  Els?nere,  744,  dramatic  version, 
807 

"Robert  of  Lincoln,"  253 

Roberts,  Elizabeth  Madox,  her  The  Time 
of  Man,  918;  The  Great  Meadow,  918 

Roberts,  Kenneth,  his  Arundel,  890; 
Rabble  in  Arms,  890;  Northwest  Pas- 
sage, 890;  Oliver  Wiswell,  890 

Robinson,  Edwin  Arlington,  305,  344,  573, 
587,  626,  627,  721,  723,  *8io-822,  an 
observer  of  transition,  820;  birth,  820; 
influences  upon  and  models,  820;  his 
"type"  sketches,  820;  his  creed,  in  "Ben 
Jonson  Entertains  a  Man  from  Strat- 
ford," 821;  "The  Man  Against  the 
Sky,"  821;  great  interpretations  of  the 
Arthurian  Saga,  821;  Avon's  Harvest, 
821;  Roman  Bartholow,  821;  Cavendefs 
House,  821;  Matthias  at  the  Door,  821; 
"Cassandra,"  821;  "Dionysus  in  Doubt," 
822;  King  Jasper,  822;  "Rembrandt  to 
Rembrandt,"  822;  The  Man  Who  Died 
Twice,  822;  906,  948,  975 

Robinson,  James  Harvey,  952 

Rock,  The,  897 

Rocket  to  the  Moon,  961 

Roderick  Hudson,  *6q\,  693 

Rod?nan  the  Keeper,  651 

Roe,  Edward  Payson,  590,  591 

"Roger  Malvin's  Burial,"  31m 

Rogers,  John,  560,  581-582,  the  "Rogers 
Groups,"  581 

Rogers,  Robert,  his  Fonteach  or  the  Sav- 
ages of  America,  163 

Rogers,  Will,  702,  836-837,  953 

Roland  Blake,  yyj 

Rolvaag,  Ole  Edvart,  his  Amerika-breve, 
912;  Laengselens  Baat,  912;  Giants  in 
the  Earth,  912;  Peder  Victorious,  912; 
Their  Father's  God,  912 

"Roman  Bartholow,"  821 

Romance,  131,  132-133,  134-135,  191-192, 
199,  201,  212,  214,  216,  219,  222,  229, 
237,  243,  244,  472-473,  473,  486-487,  661, 

67&,  735,  738,  739,  741,  745,  749,  75°, 
759,  768,  802,  804,  839,  840,  846,  895, 
916 


INDEX 


115Q 


"Romance,"  298 

Romance  Island,  870 

Romance  of  a  Plain  Man,  The,  916 

"Romance  of  Certain  Old  Clothes,  The,'1 

320,  691 
"Romance  of  Real  Life,  A,"  669 
Romance  of  the  Republic,  A,  237 
Romance  of  Travel,  223 
Romantic  Comedians,  The,  917 
Rome  Haul,  890 

Roosevelt,  Franklin  Delano,  442,  860,  950 
Roosevelt,  Theodore,  577,  820,  827,  950, 

955 

Root,  George  F.,  571 

Rope  of  Gold,  The,  957 

Rose  of  Dutchefs  Coolly,  649 

Rosenfeld,  Paul,  872 

Rosetti,  Dante  G.,  305,  333,  630 

Rosetti,  W.  M.,  613 

Rough  Hewn,  911 

Roughing  It,  645,  682,  *yi6,  play  based 
on,  716;  717 

Rourke,  Constance  M.,  903 

Rousseau,  J.  J.,  167,  286,  408,  782,  895 

Rousseau  and  Romanticism,  895 

Rowen,  joy 

Rowlandson,  Mary,  77-78,  her  The  Sov- 
eraignty  &  Goodness  of  God,  yyn 

Rowson,  Susanna  Haswell,  her  novels: 
Charlotte  Temple,  192;  Trials  of  the 
Himian  Heart,  192;  Reuben  and  Rachel, 
192;  Sarah:  or  The  Exemplary  Wife, 
192;  her  play,  Slaves  in  Algiers, 
192 

Roxy,  6^-j,  648 

"Royal  Palm,"  969 

Royal  Society,  London,  32,  49,  89,  101, 
116 

Royal  Society  of  Literature,  674 

Royce,  Josiah,  943,  944,  945,  influences 
upon,  945;  California ..  .A  Study  of 
American  Character,  945;  The  Feud  of 
Oakfield  Creek,  945;  The  Religious 
Aspect  of  Philosophy,  945;  The  Philos- 
ophy of  Loyalty,  945;  The  Hope  of  the 
Great  Community ,  945 

Rudder  Grange,  590,  706 

Rugged  Path,  The,  940-Q41 

Ruint,  921 

"Rule  of  Phase  Applied  to  History,  The," 

783-784 
"Rules   by   which   a   great   Empire   May 

be  Reduced  to  a  Small  one,"  121 
Rush,  Benjamin,  151 
Rush,  William,  555-556 
Ruskin,  John,  578,  589,  683 
Russell,  Irwin,  636 
Rutgers  University,  founding  of,  91 
Ryder,   Pinkham,   579,  characteristics   of 

his  painting,  581;  sources  of  inspiration, 

581 


Sacred  Fount,  The,  696 
Sacred  Wood,  The,  877 
Sag  Harbor,  806 


Saga  of  King  Olaf,  The,  333,  .342~343, 
Longfellow's  skill  of  compression,  342; 
metre  and  drama,  342;  344 

Saint-Gaudens,  Augustus,  his  portrait 
statues,  582;  memorial  bronze,  582 

"St.  John,"  349,  355 

"St.  Michael  the  Weigher,"  381 

St.  Nicholas,  706 

St.  Olaf  College,  912 

Salmagundi,  *z  12-2 13,  its  humor,  212;  its 
informative  nature,  212-213;  satire  and 
criticism  in,  213;  548 

Saltus,  Edgar,  741-742,  biography  of 
Balzac,  741;  Mr.  IncouTs  Misadventure, 
741;  The  Philosophy  of  Disenchant- 
ment, 741;  The  Anatomy  of  Negation, 
741;  Historia  Amoris,  741;  "Walden," 
741;  on  morality,  741-742;  The  Pace 
That  Kills,  742;  Mary  Magdalen,  742; 
The  Perfume  of  Eros,  742 

"Salut  au  Monde!"  599,  618 

Salvation  Nell,  927 

Sam  Lavuson's  Oldtown  Fireside  Stories, 
641 

Sanctuary   (Faulkner),  884 

Sanctuary:  A  Bird  Masque  (MacKaye), 
832 

Sand,  George,  268,  604,  690 

Sandburg,  Carl,  618,  623,  * 843 -844,  his 
"Chicago,"  843;  nature  of  his  poetry, 
843;  his  subjects,  843-844;  The  People, 
Yes,  844;  The  American  Songbag,  844; 
biographies  of  Lincoln,  The  Prairie 
Years,  844,  and  The  War  Years,  844; 
863 

"Sands  at  Seventy,"  615,  620 

Sandys,  George,  4 

Sansone,  translation  of,  798 

Sanf  llario,  685 

"Santa  Fe  Trail,  The,"  842 

Santayana,  George,  290,  721,  943,  944,  945, 
* 947-948,  education,  947;  his  The  Life 
of  Reason,  947;  Skepticism:  and  Animal 
Faith,  947;  The  Realms  of  Being,  947; 
relation  to  other  philosophers  and 
poets,  948;  Poems  (1923),  948;  The 
Last  Puritan,  948;  critical  works:  In- 
terpretations of  Poetry  and  Religion, 
948;  Three  Philosophical  Poets,  948; 
Winds  of  Doctrine,  948;  Soliloquies  in 
England,  948;  Philosophical  Opinion  in 
America,  948;  Character  and  Opinion 
in  the  United  States,  948;  The  Genteel 
Tradition  at  Bay,  948;  Dialogues  in 
Limbo,  948;  949 

Sapphira  and  the  Slave  Girl,  911 

Sappho  in  Levkas  and  Other  Poems,  823 

Saracinesca,  685 

Sarah:  or  The  Exemplary  Wife,  192 

Saratoga,  802 

Sargent,  Epes,  his  The  Bride  of  Genoa, 
48s;  Velasco,  485-486;  506 

Sargent,  Henry,  548 

Sargent,  John  Singer,  his  "El  Jaleo,"  579; 
portraits,  579;  murals,  579;  recogni- 
tion, 579 


I  I  60 


INDEX 


Sartoris,  884 
Satanstoe,  232 

Satire,  political,  163-164,  168,  169,  212,  213, 
219-220,  248.  259,  260,  457,  501,  665; 
social,  J5,  59,  69,  191,  212,  213,  232,  234, 
238,  245,  246,  303,  357,  370,  43°>  46i, 
489,  506,  651,  706,  716,  803,  817,  819, 
S24,  S29,  844,  845,  855,  880;  literary,  212, 
213,  219,  260,  593,  409-410,  499,  715, 
748,  832 

Saturday  Club,  349,  372,  379,  434 

Saturday's  Children,  938 

Savage,  John,  his  Sybil,  a  dramatization 
of  Beauchampe,  485 

Saxe,  John  G.,  591,  627 

Saxe  Holm's  Stories,  730 

Scarecrow,  The,  832 

Scarlet  Letter,  The,  *^  1 1-3 13,  319,  3^o, 
}2i,  434,  566,  817 

Scarlet  Sister  Mary,  919 

Schelling,  Felix  E.,  902 

Schiller,  1.  C.  F.  von,  134,  197,  266 

Schlegel,  A.  W.,  391,  667 

Schmidt.  Rudolph,  613 

School  and  Society,  The,  949 

Schoolcraft,  H.  R.,  330,  351 

"Schools,"   127 

Schopenhauer,  948 

Science,  45,  47,  48,  74,  88-89,  91,  100-101, 
:-:,  288-290,  361,  362,  366,  371-372,  38o> 
552,  J54-555*  6lo<  633,  675,  724,  759,  771- 
789,  855,  886,  942-943,  946,  949 

"Science,"  298 

Science  and  Health,  771 

Science   and   the    Modem    World, 

949 

Science  of  English  Verse,  The,  635 

Scott,  Walter,  168,  195,  201,  205,  215,  220, 
J09,  403.  408,  472,  527,  604,  661,  667,  714, 
7  19,  780,  850 

Sculpture,  see  Allied  Arts 

Si  a  Garden,  864 

Sea  I. ions,  230 

Sea  of  Grass,  891 

Sea  Wolf,  The,  847 

Seabury,  Sarrfuel,  146,  *  1 49- 151,  pseudo- 
nym. "The  Westchester  Farmer,"  149; 
his  Free  Thoughts  on  the  Proceedings 
<>\  the  Continental  Congress,  149;  The 
Congress  Canvassed,  150;  A  View  of 
the  Controversy  between  Great  Britain 
and  the  Colonies,  [50;  An  Alarm  to  the 
Legislature  of  the  Province  of  New 
York,  150;  The  Republican  Dissected, 
150;   [54 

Scad  iff:  or.  The  Mystery  of  the  Wester- 
velts,  663-664 

,4Sea:Drift,"  618 

Seaside  and  the  Fireside,  The,  326 

Seasonable  Thoughts  on  the  State  of  Re- 
ligion in  New  England,   102 

S   isoned  Timber,  91 2 

•sons  of  the  Soul,"  023 

Second  April,  K(;4 
Sic  iii  at  the  Sea,  The,"  J38 

Secret  Service,  799,   '807-808 


Sedgwick,  Catharine  Maria,  *2  37,  her  A 
New  England  Tale,  237;  Redwood, 
237;  Hope  Leslie,  237;  The  Linwoods, 
237;  Married  or  Single,  237;  385,  393 

Sedgwick,  Anne  Douglas,  816,  *8i9,  her 
The  Rescue,  819;  A  Fountain  Sealed, 
819;  Tante,  819;  Adrienne  Toner,  819; 
The  Little  French  Girl,  819 

Seeger,  Alan,  his  "I  Have  a  Rendezvous 
with  Death,"  834 

Selected  Essays  of  T.  S.  Eliot,  877 

Self,  508  _ 

"Self-Reliance,"  277,  280,  284,  435 

"Sella,"  254 

Selling  of  Joseph,  The,  127 

Sense  of  the  Past,  The,  697 

Sentinels:  or,  The  Two  Sergeants,  The, 
470 

Septimhts  Felton,  318 

Sertorius:  or,  The  Roman  Patriot,  482, 
487 

"Servant  to  Servants,  A,"  904 

Seth's  Brother's    Wife,   743 

"Seven  Sonnets  and  a  Canzone,"  340 

Seventy-Six,  221 

Several  Poems  . .  .By  a  Gentlewoman  in 
New  England,  63 

Sewall,  Jonathan,  his  The  Americans 
Roused  in  a  Cure  for  the  Spleen,   164 

Sewall,  Samuel,  his  diary,  103;  The  Sell- 
ing of  Joseph,  127,  352 

"Shadow,"  302,  303 

Shadow  of  a  Dream,  The,  591,  672 

Shadows  of  Shasta,  630 

Shadows  on  the  Rock,  910 

Shakespeare,  William,  5,  21,  142,  157,  159, 
161,  162,  195,  286,  287,  334-335,  382,  383, 
398,  399,  404,  405,  408,  410,  411,  414,  415, 
418,  420,  465,  471,  472,  473,  477,  484,  487, 
496,  5r5,  527,  581,  596,  6{M,  708,  719,  732, 
735,  804,  821,  833,  902,  904 

"Shakespeare  Once  More,"  408,  *4 17-4 18, 
421 

"Shakspeare:  or,  The  Poet,"  287,  404 

Shakspere  and  His  Forerunners,  635 

"Shame  of  Minneapolis,  The,"  828 

Shame  of  the  Cities,  The,  827 

Shapiro,  Karl,  971 

Sharpies,  James,  545-546 

Shaughraun,  The,  514-515 

Shaw,  Bernard,  767,  927 

Shaw,  Henry  W.,  702,  703 

Shaw,  Irwin,  his  The  Gentle  People,  962; 
Bury  the  Dead,  962;  Sons  and  Soldiers, 
962 

She,  807 

She  Would  Be  a  Soldier:  or,  The  Plains 
of  Chippewa,  207 

Shelburne  Essays,  896,  900 

Sheldon,  Charles  Monroe,  his  In  His 
Steps,  590,  771 

Sheldon,  Edward,  927 

Shelley,  Percv  B.,  135,  197,  400,  657,  725, 
894  ' 

Sheltered  Life,  The,  917 
i    Shenandoah,  799,  803 


INDEX 


1 161 


Shepard,  Thomas,  * 44-45,  his  The  Parable 
of  the  Ten  Virgins,  4511;  The  Sincere 
Convert,  4511;  53,  59 

Sheppard  Lee,  Written  by  Himself,  *238, 
462 

Sherlock  Holmes,  807,  808 

Sherman,  Stuart  P.,  896,  902 

Sherwood,  Robert  E.,  his  Abe  Lincoln  in 
Illinois,  940;  There  Shall  Be  No  Night, 
940;  The  Rugged  Path,  940-941 

Sherwood  Anderson  Reader,  The,  872 

Shore  Acres,  804-805 

Short  Sixes,  joy 

Short  Story,  the,  origin  of  in  Irving,  214, 
218;  Poe's  definition  of,  390 

Show-off,  The,  856 

"Sic  Vita,1'  273 

Sidney,  Algernon,  139 

Sidney,  Edward  W.,  see  Tucker,  Na- 
thaniel Beverly 

Sidney,  Philip,  63,  337 

"Silence,"  302 

Silence  and  Other  Stories,  659 

Silent  South,  The,  654 

"Silken  Tent,  The,"  906 

Sill,  Edward  Rowland,  his  The  Hermit- 
age and  Other  Poems,  724;  "The  Fool's 
Prayer,"  724;  "Five  Lives,"  724 

Silver  Cord,  The,  940 

Simms,  William  Gilmore,  211,  *  239-242, 
birth,  239;  his  Martin  Faber,  239;  Con- 
fession: or,  The  Blind  Heart,  239;  Castle 
Dismal,  239;  The  Wigwam  and  the 
Cabin,  239;  Mellichampe,  240;  The 
Partisan,  240;  Katharine  Walton,  240; 
The  Sword  and  the  Distaff,  revised  as 
Woodcraft,  240;  The  Yemassee,  240, 
The  Cassique  of  Kiawah,  240;  "Border 
Romances":  Guy  Rivers,  Richard 
Hurdis,  Border  Beagles,  240-241;  Beau- 
champe:  or,  The  Kentucky  Tragedy, 
241;  Charlemont,  241;  Joscelyn:  A  Tale 
of  the  Revolution  in  Georgia,  241;  bi- 
ographies, of  Captain  John  Smith,  241, 
of  Nathaniel  Greene,  241;  death,  241; 
letter  to  Poe,  241-242;  his  Atlantis,  359; 
The  Cassique  of  Accabee  and  Other 
Pieces,  359;  The  City  of  the  Silent, 
359;  relation  to  Slavery,  *463;  edits 
Charleston  City  Gazette,  463;  Southern 
Quarterly  Review,  463;  his  "The  Moral 
of  Slavery,"  463;  464,  485,  his  Michael 
Bonha?n:  or,  the  Fall  of  Bexar,  501; 
Norman  Maurice:  or,  the  Man  of  the 
People,  501;  569,  572 

"Simon  Legree,"  841 

Simple  Cobler  of  Aggawam  in  America, 
40-41 

Sincere  Convert,  The,  53 

Sinclair,  Upton,  764,  769,  his  The  Jungle, 
829;  King  Coal,  829;  882,  954 

Singing  in  the  Wilderness,  893 

Single  Hound,  The,  733 

Sister  Carrie,  751,  848 

"Sisters,  The,"  352 

"Skeleton  in  Armor,"  *326,  566 


Skepticism  and  Animal  Faith,  947 

Skepticisms,  867 

Sketch  Book  of  Goeffrey  Crayon,  Gent., 
The,  *2 14-215  creation  of  the  short 
story,  214;  "Rip  Van  Winkle,"  214; 
"The  Legend  of  Sleepy  Hollow,"  214; 
219,  250,  705 

Sketches  of  a  History  of  Car  sol,  196 

Sketches  of  Eighteenth  Century  Amer- 
ica, 130 

Sketches  of  Switzerland,  By  an  Ameri- 
can, 233,  430 

Sketches  of  the  Carrils  and  Ormes,  196 

Ski?i  of  Our  Teeth,  The,  937,  941 

Skinner,  Otis,  491,  494 

"Skipper  Ireson's  Ride,"  352 

Sklar,  George,  962 

Slave:  or,  Memoirs  of  Archy  Moore, 
The,  460 

Slavery,  see  Abolition  of  Slavery 

"Slavery  in  Massachusetts,"  459 

Slavery  in  the  United  States,  220,  461 

Slaves  in  Algiers,  192 

"Sleeper,  The,"  299,  300 

"Sleepers,  The,"  606,  619 

Sleeping  Car,  The,  797 

"Sleigh-Ride,  The,"  628 

Slick,  Sam,  702 

Smith,  Charles  H.,  702 

Smith,  Elihu  Hubbard,  193,  his  Edwin 
and  Angelina,  204 

Smith,  Francis  Hopkinson,  656 

Smith,  John,  4,  *  17-21,  early  travels,  17-18; 
arrives  in  Virginia,  18;  later  voyages  and 
return  to  England,  18;  his  A  True  Re- 
lation of  Such  Occurrences  and  Acci- 
dents of  Note  as  Hath  Hapned  in 
Virginia,  18;  A  Map  of  Virginia,  18; 
New  England's  Trials,  18;  The  Generall 
Historie  of  Virginia,  18;  True  Travels, 
18;  foreshadowing  of  later  writers,  18- 
19;  his  devotion  to  the  colonies,  20;  67, 
72,  biography  of  by  Simms,  241;  785 

Smith,  Logan  Pearsall,  747,  948 

Smith,  Richard  Penn,  *469~472,  birth,  469; 
edits  the  Aurora,  469;  an  experimenter 
in  drama,  469-470;  his  The  Eighth  of 
January,  470;  The  Triumph  at  Piatt s- 
burg,  470;  adaptations,  The  Disowned, 
470,  The  Sentinels:  or  The  Two  Ser- 
geants, 470,  The  Deformed:  or, 
Woman's  Trial,  470;  Caius  Marius,  471; 
The  Actress  of  Padua,  471;  482 

Smith,  Samuel,  his  History  of  the  Prov- 
ince of  Pennsylvania,  69;  History  of 
the  Colony  of  Nova-Caesaria,  69 

Smith,  William,  *98~99,  his  General  Idea 
of  the  College  of  Mirania,  98;  Provost, 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  98;  edits 
American  Magazine;  or  Monthly 
Chronicle  for  the  British  Colonies,  98; 
his  essays,  98-99;  162,  193,  469 

Smith,  William,  his  History  of  the  Prov- 
ince of  New  York,  69-70 

"Smoke,"  273,  404 

Smoke  and  Steel,  844n 


n6; 


INDEX 


Smoking  Car,  The,  797 

Snodgrass,  Thomas  Jefferson,  see  Twain, 

Mark 
"Snow,"  904 

"Snow   Image,  The,"  311 

Snow  Image  and  Other  Twice  Told 
Tales,  3 10-3 1 1 

Snowbound,  347,  *  349-3 50,  reveals  Whit- 
tier's  democracy,  350;  his  belief  in  im- 
mortality, 350;  universal  quality,  350; 
360,  41311,  549 

"Snows  of  Kilimanjaro,  The,"  883 

"So  Long!"  619 

So  Red  the  Rose,  914-915 

"Soapy,"  838 

"Sociable  at  Dudley's,  The,"  650 

Social  and  Industrial  History  of  Eng- 
land, 952 

Society  and  Solitude,  284,  285 

Soldier's  Bride,  The,  236 

Soldier's  Pay,  884 

Soliloquies  in  England,  948 

Solstice  and  Other  Poe?ns,  878 
l^Some  Considerations  on  the  Keeping  of 
Negroes,  127 

Some  Fruits  of  Solitude,  30 

Some  Imagist  Poets,  862,  864 

Some  Thoughts  Concerning  the  Present 
Revival  of  Religion  in  New  England, 
108 

"Some  Words  with  a  Mummy,"  303 

Somebody's  Neighbors,  641 

Son  of  Royal  Langbrith,  The,  672-673 

Son  of  the  Middle  Border,  A,  650 

Son  of  the  Wolf,  The,  846 

"Song,  The,"  250 

"Song  for  Occupations,  A,"  606 

"Song  for  Revolution,  A,"  726 

Song  for  Simeon,  A,  897 

Song  of  Creation,  A,  631 

"Song  of  Myself,"  606,  615-616,  774 

"Song  of  the  Answerer,"  606 

"Song  of  the  Exposition,"  611 

Song  of  the  Lark,  The,  908 

"Song  of  the  Open  Rpad,"  618 

"Song  of  the  Sower,"  256 

"Song  of  the  Universal,"  611 

"Song  Writing,"  409 

Songs  from  V agabondia,  623,  724 

Songs  in  Many  Keys,  363 

Songs  of  a  Semite,  728 

Songs  of  Italy,  630 

Songs  of  Labor,  954 

Songs  of  Many  Seasons,  364 

Songs  of  the  Sierras,  630,  631 

Songs  of  the  Soul.  631 

Songs  of  the  Sun-Lands,  630,  632 

"Sonnet  to  Zante,"  ^94 

Sons,   H40 

Sons  and  Soldiers,  962 

Sot-Weed  Factor:  or,  a  Voyage  to  Mary- 
laud,  I  he,  jc 

Sopweed  Keaivivus:  or,  the  Planters 
Loohiug-dlass,  ye 

Souls  of  Black  folk,  '/'he,  920 

Sound  and  the  Fury,  The,  884 


"Sound  of  the  Sea,  The,"  335 

Sousa,  John  Philip,  588 

"South  Carolina  to  the  States  of  the 
Union,"  465 

South  Star,  863 

Southey,  Robert,  132,  135,  248 

South-Sea  Idyls,  683 

Southworth,  Mrs.  E.  D.  E.  N.,  591 

Soveraignty  &  Goodness  of  God,  The, 
77n 

"Spain,  1873-74,"  599 

Spanish  Papers,  218 

Spanish  Student,  The,  332,  *338,  Poe's 
criticism  of,  392,  393 

Spanish- American  War,  573,  726,  751, 
836,  843,  872 

Sparks,  Jared,  his  Writings  of  George 
W ashington  . . .  with  a  Life  of  the  Au- 
thor, 533;  Works  of  Benjamin  Franklin, 
533;  Library   of  American   Biography, 

533 
Specimen  Days  &  collect,  * 620-621,  632, 

774 

Specimens,   629 

"Speech  at  Peoria,"  574 

Spencer,  Herbert,  290,  620,  633,  648,  686, 
687,  724,  772,  773,  775,  778,  785,  804,  848 

Spenser,  Edmund,  63,  189,  401-402,  410, 
414,  415,  421,  487,  904 

"Speratus,"  see  Brown,  C.  B. 

Spingarn,  Joel  E.,  902 

Spinoza,  948 

"Spirit,"  279 

Spirit  of  Romance,  The,  861 

"Spirit  of  the  Age,  The,"  287 

Spirit  of  the  Fair,  43 1 

"Spiritual  Laws,"  282 

Spoils  of  Poynton,  The,  695,  *696 

"Spondee,"  see  Tyler,  Royall 

Spoon  River  Anthology,  748,  869-870 

Sprague,  Charles,  233 

"Spring  in  New  England,"  625 

"Spring  Pools,"  904-905 

Spy,  The,  *227-228,  source,  227;  publica- 
tion, 227-228;  dramatization  and  trans- 
lation, 228,  234,  239,  250 

Squirrel  Cage,  The,  911 

Stallings,  Laurence,  938 

Standards,  815 

Standish,  Miles,  36 

Stanford  University,  852,  958 

Stanley,  Henry  Morton,  his  How  I  Found 
Livingstone,  590;  Through  the  Dark 
Continent,  683;  In  Darkest  Africa,  683 

Stansbury,  Joseph,  168-169 

"Stanzas  on  Freedom,"  380 

"Star  Spangled  Banner,  The,"  189,  834 

Star-Spangled  Virgin,  The,  918 

"Starting  from  Paumanok,"  615 

State  of  the  Union,  941 

"Statesman's  Secret,  The,"  445 

"Statistics,"  674 

Stedman,  Edmund  C,  305,  497,  576,  591, 
his  "The  Twilight  of  the  Poets,"  622; 
*626-628,  as  critic,  626-627;  his  "The 
Diamond    Wedding,"    627;    "Ballad    of 


INDEX 


1 163 


Lager  Bier,"  627;  "Honest  Abe  of  the 
West,"  627;  "Wanted— A  Man,"  627; 
"Israel  Freyer's  Bid  for  Gold,"  627; 
"How  Old  Brown  Took  Harper's 
Ferry,"  627;  "Pan  in  Wall  Street,"  627; 
Alice  of  Monmouth,  627;  The  Bla?neless 
Prince,  627;  "Country  Sleighing,"  628; 
"The  Sleigh-Ride,"  628;  editorial  work: 
the  Works  of  Poe,  628,  A  Victorian 
Anthology,  628,  An  American  Anthol- 
ogy, 628,  Victorian  Poets,  628,  Poets  of 
America,  628;  The  Nature  and  Ele- 
ments of  Poetry,  628;  674,  721,  725,  764 

Steeple  Bush,  906,  971 

Steeplejack,  858 

Steffens,  Lincoln,  his  The  Shame  of  the 
Cities,  827;  828-829,  studies  city  govern- 
ment, 828;  "The  Shame  of  Minneapo- 
lis," 828;  Autobiography,  829 

Stein,  Gertrude,  *  864-866,  education  and 
preparation,  864-865;  her  The  Autobi- 
ography of  Alice  B.  Toklas,  865;  Three 
Lives,  865;  Lectures  in  America,  865; 
Everybody's  Autobiography,  865;  Wars 
I  Have  Seen,  865-866;  her  experimental 
writing:  the  reasoned  basis  for,  866; 
Geography  and  Plays,  866,  Useful 
Knowledge,  866,  Tender  Buttons,  866, 
The  Making  of  Americans,  866,  Lucy 
Church  Amiably,  866,  Ida,  866;  "Por- 
trait of  Mable  Dodge  at  the  Villa  Cu- 
ronia,"  866;  "Miss  Furr  and  Miss 
Skeene,"  866;  four  Saints  in  Three 
Acts,  866,  882 

"Stein  Song,  A,"  724 

Steinbeck,  John,  958-961,  his  The  Pastures 
of  Heaven,  958;  To  a  God  Unknown, 
958;  Tortilla  Flat,  959;  Of  Mice  and 
Men,  959;  The  Long  Valley,  including 
"Chrysanthemums,"  959,  "The  Red 
Pony,"  959;  In  Dubious  Battle,  959;  The 
Grapes  of  Wrath,  959-961;  The  Moon 
is  Down,  961;  Cannery  Row,  961;  The 
Wayward  Bus,  961 

Stephens,  John  Lloyd,  683 

Sterling,  George,  631 

Sterling,  James,  99 

Sterne,  Laurence,  145 

Stevens,  Wallace,  969-970,  Harmonium, 
969;  Ideas  of  Order,  969;  The  Man 
With  the  Blue  Guitar,  970;  his  images, 
969-970;  his  standards  for  the  poet,  970; 
critical  poetry,  "The  Comedian  as  the 
Letter  C,"  970 

Stevenson,  Robert  Louis,  218,  305,  698, 
739,  754 

Stickney,  Trumbull,  his  Prometheus  Pyr- 
phoros,  727 

Stith,  William,  his  History  of  the  First 
Discovery  and  Settlement  of  Virginia, 

83 
Stockton,  Frank  R.,  576,  590,  591,  594, 
*jo6-yoy,  work  with  periodicals,  706; 
edits  St.  Nicholas,  706;  writes  juveniles, 
706;  Rudder  Grange,  706;  The  Casting 
Away  of  Mrs.  Leeks  and  Mrs.  Aleshine, 


706-707;  The  Vizier  of  the  Two- 
Horned  Alexander,  707;  his  short  sto- 
ries, "The  Lady  or  the  Tiger?"  706, 
"The   Griffin    and   the   Adinor  Canon," 

707,  "The  Transferred  Ghost,"  707, 
"The  Discourager  of  Hesitancy,"  707; 

708,  791 

Stoddard,  Charles  Warren,  his  South-Sea 
Idyls,  683 

Stoddard,  Elizabeth  Drew,  727 

Stoddard,  John  Lawson,  his  Lectures,  683 

Stoddard,  Richard  Henry,  258,  356,  487, 
489,  624 

Stone,  John  Augustus,  468,  480,  the  writ- 
ing of  Metamora,  498-499 

"Stonewall"  Jackson,  923 

"Stopping  by  Woods  on  a  Snowy  Eve- 
ning," 904 

Stops  of  Various  Quills,  674-675 

Store,  The,  918 

Story,  William  Wetmore,  268,  534,  535, 
557,  *559-5°°,  his  poetry,  "The  Mar- 
chese  Costello  Gives  his  Views  on 
Italy,"  559,  "In  St.  Peter's,"  559;  Essay 
on  Art  and  Letters,  559;  his  sculpture, 
"Cleopatra,"  559,  "Medea,"  559,  "Sa- 
lome," 559,  "Jerusalem  Weeping  for  her 
Children,"  559-560,  "Hero,"  560 

Story  of  a  Bad  Boy,  The,  626 

Story  of  a  Country  Town,  The,  648 

Story  of  a  Wonder  Man,  The,  880 

"Story  of  Bras  Coupe,  The,"  653 

Story  of  California,  The,  892 

Story  of  Kennett,  The,  355,  * 3 57-358 

Story  of  Philosophy,  981 

"Story  of  the  Deluge,  The,"  656 

Story  of  the  Other  Wise  Man,  The,  726 

Story  Teller's  Story,  A,  873 

Stowe,  Harriet  Beecher,  her  Abolition 
novels,  Uncle  Tom's  Cabin,  460,  463; 
Dred:  A  Tale  of  the  Great  Dismal 
Swamp,  460-461;  591,  593,  stories  of 
locality,  Oldtown  Folks,  640-641;  Sam 
Lawson' s  Oldtown  Fireside  Stories,  641; 
Poganuc  People,  641;  642,  652,  657,  The 
Pearl  of  Orr's  Island,  658;  668,  765 

Strachey,  William,  20-21,  his  "A  True 
Reportory  of  the  Wracke,  and  Re- 
demption of  Sir  Thomas  Gates,"  2 1 ;  his 
Historie  of  Travaile  into  Virginia 
Britannia,  66-67 

Strange  Case  of  Miss  Annie  Spragg,  The, 
840 

Strange  Interlude,  419,  933 

Strange  Stories  of  Louisiana,  654 

Strange  Victory,  893 

Stranger,  The,  adaptation  of  by  Dunlap, 
202;  479 

Straw,  The,  930 

Straws  and  Prayer-Books,  889 

Street  Scene,  962 

Streetcar  Named  Desire,  A,  939 

Streets  of  London,  The,  see  Poor  of  New 
York,  The 

Stribling,  T.  S.,  his  Teef tallow,  918;  The 
Store,  918;  The  Forge,  918 


1 164 


INDEX 


Strike:  A  Novel  of  Gastonia,  957 

Stuart,    Gilbert,   222,   523,   534,   535,    536, 

"537,  his  portraits  of  Washington,  537; 

other  portraits,  537;  554 
Studies  on  Slavery,  463 
Sturluson,  Snorre,  342 
Suburban  Sketches,  "668-669,  79411 
'Succession  of  Forest  Trees,  The,"  272 
Suckow",  Ruth,  her  Iowa  Interiors,  871 
Sue,  800 

Sullivan,  Louis  Henri,  586 
Sully,   Thomas,  222,  534,  535,  his  portraits, 

543-544;  his  influence,  544 
Sum niary,  Historical  and  Political,  of  the 

.  .  .  British  Settlements  in  North-Amer- 
ica, A,  83 
Summer,  271 
Sumner,  Charles,  325 
Sumner,  William  Graham,  his  Folkways, 

950 
"Sumner,"  353 
Sun  Also  Rises,  The,  883 
"Sunrise,"  633 

"Sunset  on  the  Bearcamp,"  351 
"Sunthin'  in  the  Pastoral  Line,"  454 
Sun-Up,  921 
Supernatural,  the,    194,   299-300,   31.1,   318, 

548,  $68,  657,  688,  697,  816,  823 
"Supcrnaturalism  of  New  England,  The," 

Superstition,  *io"j,  332,  500 

Surry  of  Eagle's-Nest,  573 

Susan  Lenox:  Her  Fall  and  Rise,  829 

Swallow  Bam,  239 

"Sweeney  Among  the  Nightingales,"  875 

"Sweet  Little  Alan,  Dedicated  to  Our 
Stay-at-Home  Rangers,  The,"  446 

Swift,  Jonathan,   142,  159,  160 

Swinburne,  C.  A.,  305,  408,  613,  624,  6^1 

"Swinburne's  Tragedies,"  408 

Switzerland  of  America,  The,  6^1 

Sword  and  the  Distaff,  The,  see  Wood- 
craft 

Sword  Blades  and  Poppy  Seed,  86} 

Sybil,  485 

Symbol,  the,  ^8-40,  56-57,  112,  114-115, 
244,  245,  279,  368,  377,  402,  942,  963-971. 
sec  also  French  Svmbolist  Movement, 
The 

Symonds,  John  Aldington,  613,  617,  857 

"Sympathy,"  271,  273,  404 

"Symphony,  The,"  634 

Syracuse  University,  755 


Tabb,    John    Banister,    305,    722-723,    his 

Poems,  -22;  Lyrics,  -22;  774 
Tacey  Cromwell,  891-892 
I  ailfer,  Patrick,  co-author  of  A  True  and 

Historical  Narrative  of  the  Colony  of 

Georgia,  in  America,  69 
Taine,  1 1.  A..  628,  64-7,  648,  671,  775 
Take  All  to  Nebraska,  913 
I  alhor.  C.  S.,  his  Captain  Morgan:  or,  the 

Conspiracy  Unveiled,  501 
"Tale  «>f  the  Ragged  Mountains,  A,"  301 


Tales  of  a  Wayside  Inn,  *  3 3  3 ,  337,  338, 
341,  41 1,  626 

Tales  of  a  Traveller,  215 

Tales  of  Soldiers  and  Civilians,  see  In  the 
Midst  of  Life 

Tales  of  the  Border,  236 

Tales  of  the  Good  Woman,  220 

Tales  of  the  Grotesque  and  Arabesque, 
294 

Tales  of  the  Jazz  Age,  888 

Taliesin:  A  Masque,  723 

Talisman,  The,  251 

Tall  Men,  The,  924 

Tamar,  878 

"Tamerlane,"  297,  394 

Tamerlane  and  Other  Poems,  293 

Tanglewood  Tales,  315 

Tante,  819 

Taps  at  Reveille,  888-889 

Tar:  A  Midwest  Childhood,  873 

"Tar  Baby,  The,"  656 

Tarbell,  Ida  M.,  *827-829,  her  The  His- 
tory of  the  Standard  Oil  Company,  827- 
828;  biography  of  Lincoln,  828;  All  in 
the  Day's  Work,  829;  953 

Tarkington,  Booth,  *838-839,  his  The 
Gentleman  from  Indiana,  838-839;  Mon- 
sieur Beaucaire,  839;  The  Magnificent 
Ambersons,  839;  Alice  Adams,  839; 
Penrod,  839;  his  theme— common  sense, 
839 

Fate,  Allen,  922,  ^923-924,  his  "Ode  to 
the  Confederate  Dead,"  923;  Poems, 
1922-194-],  923;  "Seasons  of  the  Soul," 
923;  "To  the  Young  Proconsuls  of  the 
Air,"  923;  his  biographies,  uStonewalF 
Jackson,  923,  Jefferson  Davis,  923;  The 
Fathers,  923;  Reactionary  Essays  on 
Poetry  and  Ideas,  924;  969 

Taylor,  Bayard,  224,  258,  261,  *355~359, 
birth,  355;  European  travel  and  pub- 
lished articles,  later  Views  Afoot,  355; 
trip  to  California,  355;  El  Dorado,  355; 
further  travels,  355-356;  Lands  of  the 
Saracens,  356;  Journey  to  Central  Af- 
rica, 356;  A  Visit  to  India,  China  and 
Japan,  356;  Poems  of  the  Orient,  356; 
journalism  in  New  York,  356;  edits 
Union  Magazine,  356;  marriage,  356; 
association  with  the  "Knickerbocker 
Group,"  356;  Phi  Beta  Kappa  poem, 
"The  American  Legend,"  356;  Cali- 
fornia Poems,  356;  Rhymes  of  Travel, 
356;  second  marriage,  356;  "The  Re- 
turn of  the  Goddess,"  356;  The  Poet's 
Journal,  357;  ballads  of  rural  life,  357; 
Home  Pastorals,  357;  appointed  secre- 
tary of  legation,  St.  Petersburg,  357;  his 
novels,  Hannah  Thurston,  357;  John 
Godfrey's  Fortune,  357;  The  Story  of 
Kennett,  357-358;  Joseph  and  his  Friend, 
358;  short  stories,  358;  translation  of 
Faust,  358;  National  Ode,  358;  longer 
narrative  poems,  The  Picture  of  St. 
John,  359;  dramatic  poetry,  Prince 
Deukalion,  359;  lecturer,  Cornell    Uni- 


INDEX 


1 165 


versity,  359;  death,  359;  360,  497,  553, 

591,  624,  625,  634 
Taylor,  Benjamin  F.,  591 
Taylor,  Bert  Leston,  980 
Taylor,  Coleridge,  345 
Taylor,  Edward,  46,  53,  56,  57-58,  65,  165, 

170 
Tears  and  Smiles,  204-205 
Teasdale,  Sara,  893-894,  her  Rivers  to  the 

Sea,  893;  Fla?ne  and  Shadow,  893;  Dark 

of    the   Moon,    893;    Strange    Victory, 

893 
Teef  tallow,  918 
Tegner,  Bishop,  341 
Television,  983 
"Telling  the  Bees,"  350 
"Tell-Tale    Heart,   The,"    292,    302,    306, 

375 

"Tempora  Mutantur,"  381 

Tempters,  The,  970 

Ten  Days  that  Shook  the  World,  955 

Ten  Nights  in  a  Bar  Roo?n,  554,  791 

Tendencies  in  Modern  American  Poetry, 
863 

Tender  Buttons,  866 

Tender  is  the  Night,  888 

Tennent,  William,  102 

Tennyson,  Alfred,  Lord,  135,  333,  345, 
346,  361,  407,  408,  442,  596,  613,  623,  624, 
625,  627,  632,  633,  640,  666,  667,  692,  723, 
726,  862,  963 

Tenth  Muse  Lately  Sprung  up  in  Amer- 
ica, The,  63 

"Tenting  on  the  Old  Camp  Ground,"  571 

Terhune,  Mary  V.,  591 

"Terminus,"  288 

"Terrestrial  Paradise,  The,"  339 

"Texas,"  443,  450 

Thackeray,  W.  M.,  229,  593,  642,  661,  669, 
690 

"Thalia,"  345 

"Thanatopsis,"  *249,  250,  255,  256,  537 

Thaxter,  Celia,  her  Among  the  Isles  of 
Shoals,  727 

Thayer,  William  Roscoe,  739 

Theatre,  the  conditions  affecting,  161, 
197-198,  210,  466-468,  515-518,  794-797; 
the  "star  system,"  467-468,  795;  native 
playwrights,  pre-Revolution  and  Revo- 
lution, 162-164;  the  post-Revolutionary 
period,  466-518;  later  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, 790-794,  797-809; '  the  twentieth 
century,  961-962;  the  Little  Theatres, 
978-979;  Baker's  "47   Workshop,"  928, 

935.  979 
Theatrical  Companies:  American  Com- 
pany, 198,  200,  201;  Chestnut  Street 
Theatre  Company  (Phila.),  189,  201, 
205,  206,  207,  467,  468,  470,  474,  482,  500, 
509-510;  Daly's  Theatre,  471,  801; 
Group  Theatre,  961;  Hull  House  Play- 
ers, Q79;  Laura  Keene's  Theatre,  501; 
Neighborhood  Playhouse,  927;  Phila- 
delphia Company,  204;  Playwrights' 
Company,  929;  Provincetown  Players, 
965,    979;    Samuel    Drake's    Company 


(Louisville),  510;  Theatre  Guild,  929, 
92911,  961,  979;  Washington  Square 
Players,  927,  979 

Theatricals,  695 

Their  Father's  God,  912 

Their  Wedding  Journey,  668,  *669 

"Them  Ku  Klux,"  635 

"Theory  of  Poetry,  A,"  397 

Theory  of  the  Leisure  Class,  The,  852 

There  Are  No  Islands  Any  More,  894 

There  Shall  Be  No  Night,  940 

"There  Was  a  Child  Went  Forth,"  606 

There  Was  Once  a  Man,  jy6 

"There'll  Be  a  Hot  Time  in  the  Old 
Town  Tonight,"  571 

Therese,  209 

Thessalonica,  195-196 

They  Knew  What  They  Wanted,  940 

They  Stooped  to  Folly,  917 

Third  Violet,  The,  755,  *758 

Thirst,  929 

Thirty  Poems  (Bryant),  254,  255 

This  Fine-Pretty  World,  832 

This  Passion  Never  Dies,  913 

This  Side  of  Paradise,  888 

Thomas,  Augustus,  798,  801,  *823,  his  Al- 
abama, 823;  In  Mizzoura,  823;  Arizona, 
823;  New  Blood,  823;  The  Capitol,  823; 
The  Witching  Hour,  823;  The  Harvest 
Moon,  823;  As  a  Man  Thinks,  823;  The 
Copperhead,  823;  830 

Thomas,  Gabriel,  his  An  Historical  and 
Geographical   Account   of  Pensilvania, 

31 

Thomas,  Isiah,  editor,  The  Royal  Amer- 
ican Magazine,  100 

Thompson,  James,  59,  857 

Thompson,  Maurice,  his  "The  Turning 
of  the  Tide,"  738;  Hoosier  Mosaics, 
738;  Alice  of  Old  Vincennes,  739 

Thompson,  Virgil,  866 

Thoreau,  Henry  David,  264,  *27o-273, 
birth,  270;  education  and  business,  270; 
Emerson  on,  270;  his  Week  on  the 
Concord  and  Merrimac  Rivers,  270; 
Walden,  271;  publishes  the  Week,  271; 
contributions  to  the  Dial,  "Sympathy," 
271;  death,  271;  Excursions,  271;  The 
Maine  Woods,  271;  Cape  Cod,  271;  A 
Yankee  in  Canada,  with  Anti-Slavery 
Papers,  271;  Early  Spring  in  Massachu- 
setts, 271;  Summer,  271;  Winter,  271; 
Autumn,  271;  attitude  toward  nature, 
271-272;  scientific  contributions,  272; 
"The  Succession  of  Forest  Trees,"  272; 
his  style,  272-273;  "Inspiration,"  273; 
"Smoke,"  273;  "Sic  Vita,"  273;  281,  287, 
310,  Lowell's  essay  on,  376;  403,  404, 
409,  412-413,  attitude  toward  Abolition, 
*459~46o;  "Civil  Disobedience,"  459; 
"Slavery  in  Massachusetts,"  459;  sym- 
pathy with  John  Brown,  459-460;  566, 
574,  601,  607,  609,  735,  765,  771,  834,  852, 
873,  892 
Those  Extraordinary  Twins,"  708 

"Thou  Art  the  Man,"  303 


n66 


INDEX 


"Thou  Mother  with  Thy  Equal  Brood/' 

611 
"Thought  of  Columbus,  A,"  615 
"Thoughts  on  Art,"  542 
"Thoughts  on  Literature,"  264 
"Thoughts  on  Modern  Literature,"  400 
"Thoughts  on  the  Soul,"  261 
Three  Black  Pennies,  The,  889 
Three  Lives,  865 
Three  Philosophical  Poets,  948 
Three  Plays,  882 
Three  Soldiers,  880 
Three  Stories  and  Ten  Poems,  882 
"Threnody,"  277,  282,  286 
Throne  of  David,  The,  2^1 
Through  the  Dark  Continent,  683 
Through  the  Eye  of  the  Needle,  673 
Thunder  Rock,  962 
Thurber,  James,  706,  816 
Ticknor,  Francis  Orray,  his  "Little  GifTen 

of  Tennessee,"  465 
Ticknor,  George,  519,  525,  526,  534,  666 
"Tides,  The,"  335 
Tiger-Lilies,  635 
Till  the  Day  I  Die,  961 
Time  of  Man,  The,  918 
Time  of  Your  Life,  The,  939 
Timrod,  Henry,  241,  his  "A  Theory  of 

Poetry,"      397;      "Ethnogenesis,"      465; 

Poems  (i860),  572;  Poems  (1873),  572; 

632 
Titan,  The,  848-849 
"To  a  Caty-Did,"  170 
"To  a  Child,"  336 
uTo  a  Foil'd  European  Revolutionaire," 

599 
To  a  God  Unknown,  958 
"To  a  Waterfowl,"  250,  255 
"To  Build  a  Fire,"  846 
To  Have  and  Have  Not,  883 
To  Have  and  to  Hold,  739 
"To  Helen,"  293,  *298-299,  301,  388,  561 
"To  Italy,"  340 

"To  John  and  Robert  Ware,"  446 
To  Make  My  Bread,  957 
"To  My  Mother,"  301 
"To  Sylvius,"  167 
To  the  Ladies,  856 

"To   the   Memory   of  the  brave  Ameri- 
cans," 168 
"To  the  Nile,"  J56 
"To    the    Royal    Academy    of    Brussels," 

1  10 
'  I  o  the  States,"  618 
"To  the  Thirty  Ninth  Congress,"  349 
'To  the    Young  Proconsuls  of  the  Air," 

923 
"To   I  hink  of  Time,"  606 
Tobacco  Road,  885-886 
Token,  The,  $09 
I  okyo,  University  of,  687 
Tolstoi,  Leo,  575,  589^  665,  671,  676,  693, 

./"A  738,  754.  755,  757,  767,  805 
/  o///,  965 

Tomorrow  and    Tomorrow,  935-936 
Tomorrow  the   World,  941 


Tompson,  Benjamin,  his  New  Englands 
Crisis,  59 

Torch,  The,  902 

Torch  Bearers,  The,  856 

"Torquemada,"  338 

Torrents  of  Spring,  The,  882 

"Torso,  The,"  357 

Tortesa  the  Usurer,  Poe's  criticism  of, 
392;  *483-484,  487,  544 

Tortilla  Flat,  959 

Tory  Lover,  The,  658 

Tour  of  the  Prairies,  A,  216,  427 

Tourgee,  Albion  W.,  591,  his  A  Fool's 
Errand,  765;  Bricks  without  Straw,  765- 
766;  Murvale  Eastman:  Christian  Social- 
ist, 770-771;  79i 

Tower  of  Ivory,  867 

Towers  of  Manhattan,  The,  431,  550 

Townsend,  Edward  W.,  760-761,  news- 
paper work,  761;  "Chimmie  Fadden"; 
Major  Max:  and  Other  Stories,  761;  A 
Daughter  of  the  Tenements,  761 

Tragedy    of   Pudd'nhead    Wilson,    The, 

715  . 

"Tragic,  The,"  401,  403 

Tragic  Muse,  The,  693,  *694 

Tramp  Abroad,  A,  716 

"Tramp,  Tramp,  Tramp,  the  Boys  are 
Marching,"  571 

Transcendental  Club,  264-265 

"Transcendental  Wild  Oats,"  273n 

Transcendentalism,  262,  263-275;  an  Amer- 
ican product,  263;  foreign  inspiration, 
263-264;  the  "Transcendental  Club," 
264;  Brook  Farm,  265;  periodcals  of, 
265-269;  276,  278-283,  412,  520,  ^66,  605, 
724,  735,  766,  819,  900,  944,  945 

"Transcendentalism  The,"  278 

"Transcontinental  Episode,  or,  Metamor- 
phoses at  Muggins'  Misery,"  747 

"Transferred  Ghost,  The,"  707 

Traveler  at  Forty,  A,  849 

Traveler  from  Altruria,  673 

Travels  in  New  England  and  New  York, 
187 

Travels  through  North  and  South  Caro- 
lina, Georgia  . . .,  135,  400 

Travels  through  the  Interior  Parts  of 
North  America,  134 

"Treason  of  the  Senate,  The,"  829 

Treat  'Em  Rough,  880 

Treatise  Concerning  Religious  Affections, 
107,  108 

"Trees"  (Kilmer),  834 

Trees,  The  (Richter),  892 

Trials  of  the  Human  Heart,  192 

Tribute  to  the  Angels,  864 

Trip  to  Niagara,  A,  203 

Triumph  at  Plattsburg,  The,  *47o,  501 

Triumph  of  Infidelity,  The,  186 

Triumph  of  the  Egg,  The,  872 

Triumphs  of  Love,  510 

Trivia,  747 

Trollope,  Anthony,  676 

Trott,  Benjamin,  546-547 

"Trouvercs,  The,"  336 


INDEX 


[67 


Trowbridge,  J.  T.,  his  Neighbor  Jack- 
wood,  502 

Troye,  Edward,  549 

"Truce  of  Piscataqua,  The,'1  351 

True  and  Historical  Narrative  of  the  Col- 
ony of  Georgia,  in  America,  A,  69 

"True  Harmony  of  Mankind,  The,"  127 

True  Relation  of  Such  Occurrences  and 
Accidents  of  Note  as  Hath  Hapned  in 
Virginia,  A,  18 

"True  Reportory  of  the  Wracke,  and  Re- 
demption of  Sir  Thomas  Gates,  A,"  21 

True  Travels,  18,  72n 

True  Womanhood,  221 

Trumbull,  John,  *  158-161,  a  satirist  de- 
spite his  inclinations,  158;  education, 
158;  tutor,  lawyer,  Federalist  politician, 
158;  Treasurer  of  Yale,  158;  judge,  Con- 
necticut Supreme  Court  of  Errors,  158; 
leader  among  Hartford  Wits,  158;  his 
An  Elegy  on  the  Times,  158;  preoccu- 
pation with  education  and  letters,  158- 
159;  An  Essay  on  the  Use  and  Advan- 
tages of  the  Tine  Arts,  158;  "The 
Meddler,"  158;  "Prospect  of  the  Future 
Glory  of  America,"  159;  Ode  to  Sleep, 
159;  skill  in  comic  satire  and  burlesque, 
1 59-161;  "The  Correspondent,"  159; 
The  Progress  of  Dulness,  159-160; 
M?  Fin  gal:  A  Modern  Epic  Poem,  160- 
161;  encouragement  of  interest  in  the 
stage,  The  Linonian  Society,  161;  162, 
165,  179 

Trumbull,  John,  536,  his  historical  paint- 
ings, 538-539;  543,  554 

Truth,  The,  824 

Tucker,  Nathaniel  Beverly,  his  The  Parti- 
san Leader:  A  Tale  of  the  Future,  462- 
463 

Tufts  College,  611 

Tulips  and  Chimneys,  965 

Turgenev,  Ivan,  575,  670,  676,  691,  693, 
694,  700,  738 

"Turn  of  the  Screw,  The,"  592,  688 

Turner,  Frederick  Jackson,  his  "The  Sig- 
nificance of  the  Frontier  in  American 
History,"  710 

"Turning  of  the  Tide,  The,"  738 

Twain,  Mark  (Samuel  Clemens),  575,  576, 
590,  592,  593,  625,  626,  629,  630,  637,  645, 
652,  653,  654,  668,  675,  682,  683,  702,  705, 
*7o8-720,  Date  1601:  Conversation,  as  It 
Was  by  the  Social  Fireside,  in  the 
Time  of  the  Tudor s,  708;  "Those  Ex- 
traordinary Twins,"  708;  The  Adven- 
tures of  To?n  Sawyer,  jog,  717;  his 
reception,  709;  the  Mark  Twain  Leg- 
end, the  posthumous  volumes,  The 
Mysterious  Stranger,  709,  715;  What  Is 
Man?  709,  715;  Mark  Twain's  Letters, 
709;  Autobiography,  702;  representative 
of  the  frontier,  710-71 1;  birth,  711;  early 
occupations,  711;  journalism,  71 1-7 13; 
The  Celebrated  Jumping  Frog  of  Cala- 
veras County  and  Other  Sketches,  712; 
travel,   published   letters,   712-713;   lec- 


tures, "The  American  Vandal  Abroad," 
713;  marriage,  713;  advanced  newspaper 
work,  714-715;  The  Tragedy  of  Pudd'n- 
head  Wilson,  715;  "The  Man  That  Cor- 
rupted Hadleyburg,"  715;  Christian 
Science,  715;  Extract  from  Captain 
Stormfield's  Visit  to  Heave?:,  715; 
Roughing  It,  716;  The  Innocents 
Abroad,  716;  A  Tramp  Abroad,  716; 
Following  the  Equator,  716;  The 
Gilded  Age,  716;  The  American  Claim- 

J  ant,  716-717;  The  Prince  and  the  Pau- 
per, 717;  Life  on  the  Mississippi,  717; 
The  Adventures  of  Huckleberry  Finn, 
718;  A  Connecticut  Yankee  in  King 
Arthur's  Court,  718-719;  letter  to  An- 
drew Lang,  719;  Is  Shakespeare  Dead? 
719;  Personal  Recollections  of  Joan  of 
Arc,  jig;  acceptance  abroad,  719-720; 
739,  776,  789,  794,  797,  845,  879 

'Twas  All  for  the  Best,  474 

Twelve  Men,  849 

XXIV  Elegies,  863 

Twice  Told  Tales,  First  Series,  309,  re- 
viewed by  Longfellow,  325;  Second 
Series,  310;  reviewed  by  Poe,  390 

"Twilight  of  the  Poets,  The,"  622 

Two  Admirals,  The,  *23o-23i,  234 

"Two  Angels,  The,"  327 

"Two  Graves,  The,"  251 

Two  Orphans,  The,  791 

"Two  Rivers,  The,"  335 

Two  Rivulets,  620 

"Two  Tramps  in  Mud  Time,"  905 

Tyndall,  John,  290,  848 

Tyler,  Moses  Coit,  55n,  140,  146,  147,  773 

Tyler,  Royall,  27,  59,  *  198-200;  birth,  198; 
education  and  military  service,  198; 
meets  Thomas  Wignell,  198;  his  The 
Contrast,  198-199;  May  Day  in  Tow??, 
199;  Georgia  Spec,  199;  The  Island  of 
Barrataria,  199;  The  Origi??  of  the  Feast 
of  Purim,  199;  Joseph  a??d  His  Brethre??, 
199;  The  Judgment  of  Solo?no?i,  199; 
Yankee  in  London,  199;  literary  part- 
nership in  "The  Shop  of  Colon  and 
Spondee,"  199;  The  Chestnut  Tree,  199; 
The  Alger ine  Captive,  199-200;  Chief 
Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ver- 
mont, 200;  death,  200;  498,  503,  548 

Typee:  A  Peep  at  Polynesian  Life,  244- 
245 

Uhland,  343 

"Ulalume,"  299,  300 

Ultima  Thule,  345 

Umstdndige  Geographische  Beschreibung, 

3i 

"Uncle  Gabe's  White  Folks,"  638 

"Uncle  Remus,"  919 

U?7cle  Re?nus  and  His  Friends,  655-656 

Uncle  Remus:  His  Songs  and  Sayings, 
655-656 

Uncle  Tom's  Cabin,  *^6o,  463,  drama- 
tized, 502;  513,  549,  590,  641,  765,  769, 
790,  791,  803,  826,  958,  965 


n68 


INDEX 


Uncle  Toins  Children,  920 

Under  the  Gas  Light,  504 

"Under  the  Old  Elm."  379 

Under  the  Skylights,  748 

"Under  the  Violets,"  367 

Under  the  Willows,  376 

"Under  the  Willows,"  377 

Undiscovered  Country,  The,  670 

Unexpected  Guests,  The,  797 

"Unguarded  Gates,  625 

"Union  and  Liberty,"  446 

Union  College,  208 

Union,  preservation  of  the,  181,  424,  425, 
428,  431,  432,  434,  437,  440,  442,  443,  446> 
449,  452,  458,  459,  461,  464,  465,  574,  600, 

^  7i3 

Unitarianism,  138,  262-263,  633,  675,  690, 
-24,  730,  735,  895 

U.S.A.,  881 

U.S.  Federal  Theatre  Project  (WPA), 
940,  979 

"Unseen  Spirits,"  225 

Untimely  Papers,  833 

Unvanquished,  The,  884 

Up  Front,  982 

Upside  Down:  or,  Philosophy  in  Petti- 
coats, 234 

"Urania:  or  A  Rhymed  Lesson,"  370 

"Uriel,"  285 

Useful  Knowledge,  866 

Usurper,  The,  482 


"Vacant  Chair,  The,"  571 

Valdes,  Palacio,  589m  670,  676 

Valley  of  Decision,  The,  817 

"Valley  of  Nis,  The,"  see  "Valley  of  Un- 
rest, The" 

"Valley  of  Unrest,  The,"  292,  299,  300 

Van  Bibber  and  Others,  760 

Windeniark's  Folly,  891 

Vanderbilt  University,  922,  924 

Van  dcr  Donck,  Adriaen,  his  Beschry- 
vinge  van  Nieuw  Nederlant,  26;  "Dia- 
logue Between  a  Patriot  and  a  New 
Netherlander,"  26 

Vanderlyn,  John,  534,  539 

Van  Doren,  Carl,  847,  870 

Van  Doren,  Mark,  902 

Vandover  and  the  Brute,  752-753 

Van  Dresser,  Marcia,  491 

Van  Dyke,  Henry,  724,  726,  The  Poetry 
of  Tennyson,  726;  Fisherman's  Fuck, 
726;  The  Story  of  the  Other  Wise  Man, 
726 

\  an  Vechten,  Carl,  741 

Varieties  of  Religious  Experience,  The, 
946 

Vasari,  Giorgio,  340 

I  'assail  Morton,  781 

\';iss;ir  College,  90} 

Veblen,  Thorstein,  852-853,  his  The  The- 
or\   <>\  the  Leisure  Class,  852 

Vegetable,  The,  888 

Vein  <>\  Iron,  The,  917 

I ' elasco,  485-486 


"Velvet  Shoes,"  894 

Venetian  Life,  413,  667,  682 

Verlaine,  Paul,  306 

Verne,  Jules,  306,  589n 

Very,  Jones,  his  "The  Dead,"  275;  287 

Veteran,  The,  509 

Via  Crucis,  686 

"Victor  and  Vanquished,"  335 

Victorian  Anthology,  A,  628 

Victorian  Poets,  628 

Victorian  Prose  Masters,  815 

Viele-Griffin,  Francis,  684 

View  of  the  Causes  and  Consequences  of 

the  America?!  Revolution,  A,  140 
View  of  the  Controversy  between  Great 

Britain  and  the  Colonies,  A,  150 
Views  Afoot,  224,  *355,  359 
"Villa  Franca,"  377-378 
Village  Blacksmith,  The,  549 
Vindication  of  the  Conduct  of  the  House 

of  Representatives,  A,  141 
Vindication  of  the  Government  of  New- 
England  Churches,  137 
Vining,  Fanny,  486 
Virginia,  916 
Virginia,  University  of,  founded,  184;  293, 

308,  561 
Virginia?!,  The,  891 
Virginius,  483 

Visio?i  of  Columbus,  The,  187 
Vision  of  Sir  Launfal,  The,  375,  377 
"Visit  of  the  Dead,"  297 
Visit  to  India,  China  and  Japan,  A,  356 
"Vittoria  Colonna,"  341 
Vizier   of   the    Two-Homed   Alexa?ider, 

The,  707 
"Voice  of  the  Loyal  North,  The,"  446 
Voice  of  the  People,  The,  665,  77 2n,  916 
Voices  of  the  Night,  323,  325,  339 
Vollmer,  Lulu,  921 
Voltaire,  5,   133,   147,  505 
"Voluntaries,"  439 
Vorse,  Mary  Heaton,  her  Strike:  A  Novel 

of  Gastonia,  957 
Voyage   dans  la   Haute   Pe?insylva?iie   et 

da?is  VEtat  de  New  York,  130 
Voyage  to  Virgi?iia,  A,  22 
"Voyages,"  969 
Voyages   and   Discoveries   of   the   Co?n- 

panio?is  of  Christopher  Columbus,  The, 

216,  218 


Waif,  The,  Poe's  reviews  of,  393,  396 

Wainwright,  Marie,  491 

Waiting  for  Lefty,  961 

"Walden"  (Saltus),  741 

Walde?i  (Thoreau),  271,  272,  273 

Wald'nnar,  483 

Wallace,  Lewis,  590,  591,  * 79 1-792,  his 
Ben-Hur:  A  Tale  of  the  Christ,  791, 
792;  The  Fair  God,  791;  serves  as  Gov- 
ernor of  the  Territory  of  New  /Mexico, 
791;  Minister  to  Turkey,  792;  The 
Prince  of  India,  792 

Wallack,  J.  W.,  483-484,  511 


INDEX 


i  i6y 


Wallack,  Lester,  484,  509,  801 

Walls  Do  Not  Fall,  The,  864 

Walsh,  Robert,  Jr.,  387 

"Wanted— A  Alan,"  627 

"War  and  the  Intellectuals,  The,"  834 

War  is  Kind,  758 

War-lyrics  (Civil  War),  571 

War  of  181 2,  204,  207,  220,  230,  501,  546, 
787,  890 

War  Songs,  570-571,  834 

"War  Widow,  The,"  744 

War  Years,  The,  844 

Ward,  Artemus,  569,  624,  702,  *704~705, 
birth,  704;  newspaper  work,  704;  his 
"The  Babes  in  the  Wood,"  704;  speak- 
ing tours,  705;  "Artemus  Ward  among 
the  Adormons,"  705;  death,  705;  Artemus 
Ward:  His  Book,  705;  Artemus  Ward: 
His  Travels,  705;  708,  712 

Ward,  John  Quincy  Adams,  582 

Ward,  Mrs.  Humphry,  744,  807,  890 

Ward,  Nathaniel,  his  Body  of  Liberties, 
40;  Simple  Cobler  of  Aggawa?n,  40-41; 

63 

Ward,  Ned,  56 

"Ward  of  Colonel  Starbottle,  A,"  645 

Ware,  William,  242-243,  his  Letters  of 
Lucius  M.  Piso  from  Palmyra  to  his 
Friend  Marcus  Curtius  at  Rome,  242; 
Probus,  242;  Julian,  242 

Warner.  Charles  Dudley,  662,  *705~7o6, 
his  The  Gilded  Age,  705;  editor,  Li- 
brary of  the  World's  Best  Literature, 
705;  newspaper  work,  706;  My  Summer 
in  a  Garden,  706;  Backlog  Studies,  706; 
Being  a  Boy,  706;  The  Relation  of  Lit- 
erature to  Life,  706;  Fashions  in  Litera- 
ture, 706;  travel  books,  706;  716,  764 

Warner,  Susan,  243 

Warren,  Mercy,  The  Adulateur,  163;  The 
Group,  163;  467,  474 

Warren,  Robert  Penn,  922,  924 

Wars  I  Have  Seen,  865 

Washington,  Booker  T.,  919 

Washington,  George,  98,  164,  165,  *  175- 
179,  his  influence,  175-176;  presides  at 
Convention  of  1787,  175;  his  style  as 
revelation  of  character,  176,  177-178; 
letter  to  Benjamin  Harrison,  176;  to 
Sir  Edward  Newenham,  176;  to  Lafay- 
ette, 176;  on  art,  176;  his  Presidency, 
176;  letter  to  Jefferson,  176;  to  David 
Stuart,  176;  to  Henry  Lee,  177;  views 
on  slavery,  177;  letters  to  Jay,  177; 
Alessage  to  Sixth  Congress,  177;  "Reply 
to  the  French  Minister,"  177;  his  sense 
of  humor,  177;  letter  to  Gouverneur 
Morris,  177;  to  Nellie  Custis,  177;  to 
Edmund  Randolph,  177;  to  John  Trum- 
bull, 178;  to  John  Adams,  178;  desire 
to  found  a  university,  178;  Farewell 
Address,  178-179;  180,  201,  202,  21.2,  217, 
220,  233,  379,  411,  426,  498,  500,  522,  523, 
532,  portraits  of,  535,  536-537,  537-53®, 
539,  554,  555,  55^,  in  sculpture,  559, 
560;  573,  627,  777,  785,  833 


Washington  and  Lee  University,  653 

Washington,  University  of,  913 

Washington  Square,  692 

Wasson,  David  A.,  275 

Waste  Land,  The,  788,  861,  875-877,  896, 

898 
Watch  and  Ward,  691 
Watch  on  the  Rhine,  941 
"Water,"  277 
Waterloo,  231 
Water-Witch,  The,  230 
Watts,  Isaac,  59,  159 
Way  Out,  A,  906 
Ways  of  the  Hour,  The,  i^i 
Wayside  Courtships,  649 
Wayward  Bus,  The,  961 
We,  892 

"Wealth,"  285,  288 
Web  and  the  Rock,  The,  924 
Webster,   Daniel,    353,   424,   debate   with 

Hayne,  425-426;  436,  444,  445-446,  524, 

557 
Webster,  Noah,  his  American  Magazine, 

100;  570 
"Wedding  Feast,"  345 
Week    on    the    Concord    and   Merrimac 

Rivers,  270  (^~* 
Weil,  Kurt,  962 
Weir,  Robert  W.,  549 
Weld,  Thomas,  60 
Welded,  930 
Wellesley  College,  944 
Wells,  Carolyn,  722 
Wells,  H.  G.,  759,  981 
WTelty,  Eudora,  her  Delta  Wedding,  925- 

926 
Wemyss,  Francis  C,   207,  467,  476,  478, 

511 

Wept  of  Wish-ton-Wish,  The,  230 

West,  Benjamin,  162,  200,  535,  536,  537, 
538,  539,  54o 

"Westchester  Farmer,"  see  Seabury, 
Samuel 

Westcott,  Glenway,  his  The  Grand- 
mothers, 871 

West-Running  Brook,  904-905 

Western  Souvenir,  The,  236 

Westward  Ho!  219-220 

Wharton,  Edith,  814,  *8i6-8iq,  her  The 
Valley  of  Decision,  817;  The  House  of 
Mirth,  817;  Ethan  Fro?ne,  817;  The  Age 
of  Innocence,  817-818;  her  use  of  irony 
and  tragedy,  817,  818;  plot,  818;  The 
Old  Maid,  818;  Bunner  Sisters,  818; 
823,  908 

"What  and  the  How  in  Art,  The,"  677 

What  Is  Man?  709,  715 

What  Maisie  Knew,  695 

"What  Mr.  Robinson  Thinks,"  449 

What  Price  Glory,  938 

"What  Was  It?"  307 

"What  Will  Mr.  Webster  Do?"  450 

What's  O'Clock,  863 

Wheatley,  Emma,  499 

When  Knighthood  Was  in  Flower,  739 

When  Ladies  Meet,  927 


1 170 


INDEX 


"When  Lilacs  Last  in  the  Dooryard 
Bloom'd,"  610 

"When  Our  Boys  Come  Home,"  571 

"When  the  Frost  is  on  the  Punkin,"  637 

Whigs  and  Democrats:  or,  Love  of  No 
Politics,  501 

Whilomville  Stories,  759 

Whipple,  Edwin  P.,  his  survey  of  Amer- 
ican Literature,  421;  497 

Whisper  of  the  Sphinx,  The,  774 

"Whispers  of  Heavenly  Death,"  619 

Whistler,  James  Abbott  McNeill,  conveys 
European  and  Oriental  influences,  578; 
his  portraits,  578;  "Nocturnes,"  578; 
The  Gentle  Art  of  Making  Enemies, 
578;  international  recognition,  578;  579 

White,  Andrew,  his  A  Brief  Relation  of 
the  Voyage  unto  Maryland,  23 

White,  Elwvn  Brooks,  his  One  Man's 
Meat,  816 

White,  John  Blake,  his  Foscari:  or,  The 
Venetian  Exile,  210;  Modem  Honor, 
210 

White,  Richard  Grant,  576 

White,  Stewart  Edward,  his  The  Claim 
Jumpers,  892;  The  Blazed  Trail,  892; 
Arizona  Nights,  892;  The  Story  of 
California,  892;  The  Forest,  892 

White,  William  Allen,  770,  his  Autobiog- 
raphy, 829 

]\rhite  Fang,  847 

White  Heron  and  Other  Stories,  A,  65$ 

White  Jacket,  245 

"White  Old  .Maid,  The,"  311,  321 

'"White  Mountains,  The,"  348 

White  Sister,  The,  685 

White  Wings,  935 

Whitefield,  George,  98,  102,  108 

Whitehead,  Alfred  North,  949-950,  his 
Science  and  the  Modern  World,  949; 
his  Organism,  949-950 

Whitman,  Sarah  Helen,  her  Edgar  Foe 
and  his  Critics,  295 

Whitman,  Walt,  101,  244,  369,  399,  566," 
572-573i  576,  580,  591,  596,  *5o8-62i, 
defines  democracy,  598-601-,  education, 
602;  early  travel  and  vocations,  602; 
editorial  positions,  602;  early  prose,  603; 
his  novel,  Franklin  Evans:  or,  The 
Inebriate,  603;  short  stories,  "Death  in 
the  School  Room,"  603;  early  verse, 
"The  House  of  Friends,"  603-604,  "Re- 
surgemus,"  603,  604,  "Bloody  Money," 
60 3;  developmental  period,  influences 
upon,  603-606;  a  mystic,  605-606;  Leaves 
of  Grass,  606-609;  speeches,  607;  interest 
in  phrenology,  608;  hospital  visitations 
during  the  Civil  War,  609;  Drum  Taps, 
609-611;  Burroughs1  biograpny  ot,  BTi; 
Passage  to  India,  6115  public' readings, 
611;  publishes  in  periodicals,  611-612; 
Democratic  Vistas,  612-613;  acceptance 
in  Europe,  613;  Bucke's  biography  of, 
614;  adhesive  and  amative  love,  616- 
618;  November  Boughs,  620;  late  prose, 
Memoranda  During  the  War,  620;  Two 


Rivulets,  620;  Specimen  Days  &  col- 
lect, 620-621;  Complete  Prose  Works, 
621;  623,  627,  628,  632,  642,  649,  677, 
684,  710,  724,  726,  728,  740,  756,  764, 
77^772>  774.  775.  843,  857^873,  902,  914, 
954,  968,  971 
Whittier,  John  Greenleaf,  126,  129,  167, 
293,  * 347-355,  contrasted  with  Long- 
fellow, 347;  birth,  347;  education,  347; 
early  influences  on  and  early  poetry, 
347-348,  "The  Deity,"  348,  "Isabella  of 
Austria,"  348,  "Judith  at  the  Tent  of 
Holof ernes,"  348;  edits  New  England 
Weekly  Review,  348;  Legends  of  New 
England,  348;  "A  Mother's  Revenge," 
348;  interest  in  Abolition,  349,  Justice 
and  Expediency,  349,  edits  the  Pennsyl- 
vania Freeman,  349;  Lays  of  My  Home, 
349;  Poems  (1849),  349;  London  edition 
of  poems,  349;  Collected  Edition,  349; 
elected  Overseer  of  Harvard,  349;  to 
"Saturday  Club,"  349;  Civil  War  im- 
petus, In  War  Time  and  Other  Poems, 
349,  "Barbara  Frietchie,"  349,  "To  the 
Thirty  Ninth  Congress,"  349;  Snow- 
bound, 349-350;  death,  349;  poems  of 
locality,  350-351;  of  legend  and  tradi- 
tion, 351-352,  the  Indian,  351,  witch- 
craft, 351,  sources  and  motives,  351-352; 
patriotic  verse,  352-353;  his  own  classi- 
fication of  his  poetry,  353;  his  tributes, 

353,  444;    "At    Sundown,"    353;    prose, 

354,  Margaret  Smith's  Journal,  354, 
"Yankee  Gypsies,"  354,  "Charms  and 
Fairy  Faith,"  354,  review  of  Macaulay's 
History,  354,  "The  Supernaturalism  of 
New  England,"  354,  "The  Agency  of 
Evil,"  354,  criticism  of  Evangeline,  354, 
introduction  to  John  Woolman's  Jour- 
nal, 354;  his  position  in  literature,  354- 
355;  hiis  democracy,  355;  his  provincial- 
ism, 355;  356,  358,  359,  360,  361,  366, 
370,  374,  409,  413,  421,  relation  to  poli- 
tics, * 443-445;  letter  to  Sewall,  443;  his 
services  through  poetry  to  Abolition 
and  Union,  444-445;  "Ichabod,"  444; 
"Massachusetts  to  Virginia,"  444;  "Laus 
Deo,"  445;  450,  457,  464,  540,  544,  549, 
559.  569.  574.  576,  59i.  603,  607,  623, 
624,  637,  640,  643,  668,  715,  902,  954 

"Who  Learns  My  Lesson  Complete?"  606 

Who's  Got  de  Flo?  or,  Scenes  in  the 
South  Carolina  Legislature,  798-799 

Wide  Wide  World,  The,  243,  554 

Widow  of  Malabar,  The,  204 

Widow's  Marriage,  The,  489 

Widow's  So?i,  The,  207-208 

Wieland,  194 

"Wife  of  Palissy,"  344 

Wigglesworth,  Michael,  *6o-62,  his  The 
Day  of  Doom,  60-62;  "Gods  Contro- 
versy with  New  England,"  61;  Meat 
out  of  the  Eater,  61 

Wigncll,  Thomas,  meets  Royall  Tyler, 
198;  The  Contrast,  written  for,  198;  201 

Wigwam  and  the  Cabin,  The,  240 


INDEX 


171 


Wilcox,  Ella  Wheeler,  her  Poems  of  Pas- 
sion,  721;    "The   Queen's    Last    Ride,'1 

721;  722,  774 

"Wild  Apples,"  271 

Wilde,  Oscar,  857 

Wilder,  Marshall  P.,  702 

Wilder,  Thornton,  936-938,  his  fiction, 
The  Cabala,  936,  The  Bridge  of  San 
Luis  Rey,  936-937,  The  Woman  of 
Andros,  937,  Heaven's  My  Destination, 
937,  The  Ides  of  March,  937;  his  plays, 
Our  Town,  937,  The  Merchant  of 
Yonkers,  937,  The  Skin  of  Our  Teeth, 
937;  his  importance,  937-938 

Wilderness  and  the  War  Path,  The,  236 

"Will  of  the  People,  The,"  459 

Will  to  Believe,  The,  946 

William  and  Mary,  College  of,  founding 
of,  91 

William  Wetmore  Story  and  His  Friends, 
699 

"William  Wilson,"  292,  302 

Williams,  Roger,  41-42,  his  Key  into  the 
Language  of  America,  42;  The  Bloudy 
Tenent,  of  Persecution  for  Cause  of 
Conscience,  42;  The  Bloody  Tenent  yet 
More  Bloody,  42;  46,  953 

Williams,  William  Carlos,  966,  *97o-97i, 
his  Poems  (1909),  970;  The  Tempters, 
970;  Al  Que  Quiere,  970;  "Peace  on 
Earth,"  970;  his  later  technique,  970- 
971;  "Yachts,"  971;  "The  Crimson 
Cyclamen,"  971;  "Item,"  971;  Pater  son, 
971;  his  prose,  In  the  American  Grain, 
971,  A  Dream  of  Love,  97 1 

Williams  College,  248,  520 

Willis,  Nathaniel  Parker,  *iii-n^,  birth, 
222;  education,  222;  edits  New  York 
Mirror,  222,  223;  travels,  222;  Pencil- 
lings  by  the  Way,  222;  Inklings  of 
Adventure,  222;  "Edith  Linsey,"  222; 
A  VAbri:  or,  The  Tent  Pitched,  later 
Letters  from  Under  a  Bridge,  223;  Ro- 
mance of  Travel,  223;  his  democracy, 
social  and  artistic,  223-224;  death,  224; 
his  Views  Afoot,  224;  Paul  Fane,  224; 
Collected  Prose  Works  published,  224; 
"Ephemera,"  224;  Outdoors  at  Idlewild, 
224;  The  Convalescent,  224;  "Unseen 
Spirits,"  225;  "Parrhasius,"  225;  "Lines 
on  leaving  Europe,"  225-,  294,  296,  356, 
392,  393,  his  verse  dramas,  *483~484; 
Bianca  Visconti,  483;  The  Kentucky 
Heiress,  483;  Tortesa  the  Usurer,  483- 

484;  5°9,  5",  5l5i  54°,  544,  553>  6z4 
Willson,  Thomas  E.,  his  It  Is  the  Law, 

74i 
Wilmer,  Lambert,  389 
Wilson,  Augusta  Evans,  243 
Wilson,  Harry  Leon,  856 
Wilson,  Samuel,  his  Ait  Account  of  the 

Province  of  Carolina,  28 
Wilson,  Woodrow,  574,  833,  943,  950-951 
"Wind  Clouds  and  Star  Drifts,"  368 
Winds  of  Doctrine,  948 
Windy  McPher  son's  Son,  872 


Wine  from  These  Grapes,  894 

Winesburg,  Ohio,  871,  872 

Wing  and  Wing,  230,  231 

Winged  Victory,  939 

Wings  of  the  Dove,  The,  696 

Winslow,  Anne  Goodwin,  her  The  Long 
Gallery,  926;  The  Dwelling  Place,  926 

Winter,  271 

Winter,  Percy,  491 

Winter,  William,  795,  859 

Winter  set,  418,  938 

Winther,  Sophus  Keith,  his  Take  All  to 
Nebraska,  913;  Mortgage  Your  Heart, 
913;  This  Passion  Never  Dies,  913 

Winthrop,  John,  73 

Winthrop,  Theodore,  569,  his  Cecil 
Dreeme,  570;  John  Brent,  570;  Edwin 
Brothertoft,  570;  The  Canoe  and  the 
Saddle,  570;  642 

Wisconsin,  University  of,  649,  925 

Wise,  John,  136-138,  his  The  Churches 
Espoused,  137;  Vindication  of  the  Gov- 
ernment  of  New-England  Churches, 
137;  his  liberalism,  137-138 

Wister,  Owen,  his  The  Virginian,  891 

"Witch  of  Wenham,  The,"  351 

Witchcraft,  48,  49 

"Witchcraft,"  382 

Witchcraft:  or,  the  Martyrs  of  Salem, 
332,  *5oo 

Witching  Hour,  The,  823 

Witching  Times,  663 

"With  Antecedents,"  612 

"With  Husky-Haughty  Lips,  O  Sea,"  614 

With  the  Procession,  748 

Without  Love,  936 

Witness  True,  A,  906 

"Witnesses,  The,"  440 

Wolf  of  Gubbio,  The,  832 

Wolfe,  Thomas,  924-925,  education  and 
preparation,  924;  his  Look  Homeward, 
Angel,  924;  Of  Time  and  the  River, 
924;  The  Web  and  the  Rock,  924;  You 
Can't  Go  Home  Again,  924 

Woman  in  the  Case,  The,  824 

Woman  of  Andros,  The,  937 

Woman  of  Destiny,  A,  940 

"Woman  Waits  for  Me,  A,"  616 

Wonder  Book,  A,  315 

W onder -working  Providence  of  Siotfs 
Savior  in  New  England,  The,  73 

Wood,  William,  his  New  Englands  Pros- 
pect, 35 

Wood,  William,  210,  467,  468 

Woodberry,  George  Edward,  628,  724, 
his  The  North  Shore  Watch,  725;  Ideal 
Passion,  725;  study  and  teaching,  725; 
biography  and  edition  of  Poe,  725;  of 
Hawthorne,  725;  study  of  Emerson, 
725;  Great  Writers,  725;  America  in 
Literature,  725;  Poems,  725;  901-902 

Woodcraft,  see  Sword  and  the  Distaff, 
The 

"Woodnotes,"  286 

Woodworth,  Samuel,  *  207-208,  his  The 
Widow's  Son,   207-208-,   Lafayette:   or, 


INDEX 


Woodworth,  Samuel   {cont'd) 

The  Castle  of  Olmutz,  208;  The  Forest   j 
Rose,  503;  5 1 1 

Woolman,  John,  *  124- 129,  birth,  125; 
early  life,  125;  his  A  First  Book  for 
Children,  125;  attitude  toward  slavery, 
i2>,  127;  economic  principles,  125,  127- 
128;  death,  125-126;  his  Journal,  126; 
'"Pure  Wisdom  and  Human  Policy," 
127;  "Labour,"  127;  "Schools,"  127; 
"The  True  Harmony  of  Mankind," 
12-;  "A  Plea  for  the  Poor,"  127;  Some 
Considerations  on  the  Keeping  of 
Negroes,  127;  pacifism,  127;  his  style, 
[28-129;   [32,   133,   135 

Woolson,  Constance  Fenimore,  259,  her 
Rodman  the  Keeper,  651 

"Word  for  the  Hour,  A,"  444 

'Wordsworth,"  353 

Wordsworth,  William,  135,  264,  277,  386, 
399,  400-401,  407,  416,  417,  633, 
726 

Work,  Henry  Clay,  571 

"Work  on  Red  Aiountain,  The,"  see 
"M'liss" 

Works  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  533 

World  a  Mask,  The,  489 

World  1  Never  Made,  ^,851 

"World  of  Fancy,  The,"  723 

•World  Soul,  The,"  280 

World  to  Win,  957 

World  War  I,  effect  of  on  literature, 
825,  834,  868,  879,  890,  919,  951,  963, 
982;  treatment  of  in  literature,  749,  865, 
881,  909,  925,  938,  953,  957;  see  also  709, 
724,  740,  746,  828,  833,  840,  859,  867, 
955,  981 

World  War  II,  effect  of  on  literature, 
868,  894,  963,  982;  treatment  of  in  lit- 
erature, 866,  940,  953;  see  also  834,  864, 
939,  955,  969,  976 

World  We  Make,  The,  85  m,  940 

World's  Body,  The,  923 

"Wormwood  Cordial  of  History,  The," 
446 

"Wreck  of  the  Hesperus,"  327,  566 

Wright,  Frank  Llovd,  586 

Wright,  Harold  Bell,  858 

Wright,  Richard,  his  Uncle  Tom's  Chil- 
dren, 920;  Native  Son,  920;  Black  Boy, 
920 

Writings  of  George  Washington  ..  .with 
a  Life  of  the  Author,  533 

Wyandotte,  230 

Wylie,  Elinor,  '894,  her  Nets  to  Catch 
the    Wind,   894;   "The    Eagle   and   the 


Mole,"  894;  "Velvet  Shoes,"  894;  Angels 
and  Earthly  Creatures,  894;  Collected 
Poems,  894;  her  novels,  The  Orphan 
Angel,  894;  926 

Wyndham  Towers,  626 

"Wyoming,".  260 


"Xenophanes,"  280 


"Yachts,"  971 

Yale  University,  55,  69,  founding  of,  91, 
100,  102,  106,  109,  139,  158,  159,  160, 
161,  186,  187,  189,  222,  226,  248,  361, 
538,  570,  626,  653,  664,  722,  724,  729, 
741,  852,  854,  867,  902,  950,  979 

Yankee  Chronology,  203 

Yankee  Fantasies,  832 

"Yankee  Gypsies,"  354 

Yankee  in  Canada,  with  Anti-slavery 
Papers,  A,  271 

Yankee  in  England,  204 

Yankee  in  London,  199 

Yearling,  The,  918 

Year's  Life,  A,  375 

Years  of  My  Youth,  675 

Yellow  Jack,  940 

"Yellow  Violet,  The,"  250 

Yemassee,  The,  240 

Yorick's  Love,  translation,  by  Howells, 
of  Un  Drama  Nuevo,  798 

You  and  I,  935 

"You  and  Me  and  Today,"  see  "With 
Antecedents" 

You  Can't  Go  Home  Again,  924 

You  Can't  Take  It  With  You,  939 

You  Know  Me,  Al,  879 

Youma,  687  s 

Young,  Stark,  914-915 

"Young  American,  The,"  435 

Young  Mrs>  Winthrop,  803 

Youngest,  The,  935 

Youth  and  Life,  833 

Youth  and  the  Bright  Medusa,  909 

Yvernelle:  A  Legend  of  Feudal  France, 
750 


Zenger,  Peter,  freedom  of  the  press  and, 

95     . 
Zola,  Emile,  589,  639,  661,  676,  691,  693, 

699,  738,  750,  751.  754,  755,  757,  758,  778, 

805,  820,  886 
Zoroaster,  686 
Zury,  648 

(■) 


31047    0 


L«  • 


ie        . 

Returned 

f         t 

fBB  0  4 

988 

i 

! 

— —  i 

^^jUSBf 

IIGIjE 

I 

......                   i 

. 

. 

— — 



t 

j 

/ 

1 

i ^ 

j 

i 

* 

| 

! 

i — 

?/*,? 


The  literature  of  the  American  main 
810.9Q7NC.2 


3  lEbE  D3EE1  S3bT 


,f*um^  **%* 


on  £  , 


