Ex  lifcris    Henrv  S.  Saunders 


VMiitman  Collection     p 


The  Little  Review 

Literature      Drama      Music      Art 


MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON 

EDITOR 


MAY,    1917 
Editorial  Ezra  Pouna 

Eeldrop  and  Appleplex  T.  S.  Eliot 

Pierrots  (Jules  Laforgue)  John  Hall 

Jodindranath  Mawhwor's  Occupation      Ezra  Pound 
Imaginary  Letters,  I.  Wyndham  Lewis 

Proses  Coronales  Morris  Ward 

Announcement  for  June 
The  Little  Review  Bookshop 
The  Reader  Critic 

Published  Monthly 
MARGARET  C  ANDERSON.  Publisher 
EZRA  POUND,  Foreign  Editor 
3 1  West  Fourteenth  Street 
NEW  YORK  CITY 
15  Cents  a  copy  $1.50  a  Year 

Entered  as  second-class  iDatt§r  »(  Postoffice,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


/^ARMEXTS  created  by  Bertha  Holley 
^^eive  the  wearer  the  distinction  in  color 
ana  line  of  an  artist's  portrait.  Their 
beauty  is  essential,  there/ore  permanent, 
and  raises  one  fore7>er  above  the  cojtfusion 
and  extravagance  of  changing  fashion. 
Moreover,  each  gartncnt  fortns  part  of  an 
ticcumulative,  interchangeable  7uar(trobe 
which  may  be  acquired  at  once  or 
gradually,  as  a  hooklover  aicptires  books, 
and  when  complete  enables  the  possessor 
to  meet  every  occasion  with  variety  and 
crarm. 

BERTHA     HOLLEY 

Twenty^ne  East  Forty-ninth  Street 
Neiv  York  City 
Telephone:  Plaza  U96 


M^fsmtc^m^mi 


The  Stradivarius  of  Pianos 


jtasim^l^mnlmffiit. 


313  5th  Avenue 

New  YorL 


The  Little  Review 

VOL.  IV.  MAY  1917  NO.  I 

\  Editorial 

Ezra  Pound 

'     HAVE  accepted  the  post  of  Foreign  Editor  of  The  Little 
Review:   chiefly  because: 

I. 

I  wished  a  place  where  the  current  prose  writings  of  James 
oyce,  Wyndham  Lewis,  T.  S.  EHot,  and  myself  might  appear 
■egularly,  promptly,  and  together,  rather  than  irregularly,  spor- 
idically,  and  after  useless  delays. 

My  connection  with  The  Little  Reviezv  does  not  imply  a  sev- 
jrance  of  my  relations  with  Poetry  for  whicli  I  still  remain 
F'oreign  Correspondent,  and  in  which  my  poems  will  continue  to 
ippear  until  its  guarantors  revolt. 

I  would  say,  however,  in  justification  both  of  Poetry  and 
nyself,  that  Poetry  has  never  been  "the  instrument"  of  my 
'radicalism".  I  respect  Miss  Monroe  for  all  that  she  has  done 
for  the  support  of  American  poetry,  but  in  the  conduct  of  her 
Tiagazine  my  voice  and  vote  have  always  been  the  vote  and 
\roice  of  a  minority. 

I  recognize  that  she,  being  "on  the  ground",  may  be  much 
better  fitted  tQ  understand  the  exigencies  of  magazine  publish- 
ing in  America,  but  Poetry  has  done  numerous  things  to  which  I 
Could  never  have  given  my  personal  sanction,  and  which  could 
not  have  occurred  in  any  magazine  which  had  constituted  itself. 
my  "instrument".  Poetry  has  shown  an  unflagging  courtesy  to 
a  lot  of  old  fools  and  fogies  whom  I  should  have  told  to  go  to 
hell  tout  pleinement  and  bonnement.  It  has  refrained  from 
attacking  a  number  of  public  nuisances :  from  implying  that 
the  personal  charm  of  the  late  Mr.  Gilder  need  not  have  been, 


The  Little  R  eviezu 


of  necessity,  the  sign  manifest  of  a  tremendous  intellect ;  fron 
heaping  upon  the  high-school  critics  of  America  the  contemp 
which  they  deserve.  / 

There  would  have  been  a  little  of  this  contempt  to  spare  f-  i 
that  elder  generation  of  American  magazines,  founded  by  medi- 
ocrities with  good  intentions,  continued  by  mediocrities  without 
any  intentions,  and  now  "flourishing"  under  the  command  andf 
empery  of  the  relicts,  private-secretaries  and  ex-typists  of  the 
second  regime. 

Had  Poetry  been  in  any  sense  my  "instrument"  I  should 
years  ago  have  pointed  out  certain  defects  of  the  elder  Ameri- 
can writers.  Had  Poetry  been  my  instrument  I  should  never 
have  permitted  the  deletion  of  certain  fine  EnglisJi  words  from 
poems  where  they  rang  well  and  soundly.  Neither  would  I 
have  felt  it  necessary  tacitly  to  comply  with  the  superstition 
that  the  Christian  Religion  is  indispensable,  or  that  it  has  always 
existed,  or  that  its  existence  is  ubiquitous,  or  irrevocable  and 
eternal. 

I  don't  mind  the  Christian  Religion,  but  I  can  not  blind 
myself  to  the  fact  that  Confucius  was  extremely  intelligent. 
Organized  religions  have  nearly  always  done  more  harm  than 
good,  and  they  have  always  constituted  a  danger.  At  any  rate, 
respect  to  one  or  another  of  them  has  nothing  to  do  with  good 
letters.  H  any  human  activity  is  sacred  it  is  the  formulation  of 
thought  in  clear  speech  for  the  use  of  humanity ;  any  falsifica- 
tion or  evasion  is  evil.  The  codes  of  propriety  are  all  local, 
parochial,  transient ;  a  consideration  of  them,  other  than  as 
subject  matter,  has  no  place  in  the  arts. 

I  can  say  these  things  quite  distinctly  and  without  in  the 
least  detracting  from  my  praise  of  the  spirited  manner  in  whic 
Miss  Monroe  has  conducted  her  paper.  She  is  faced  with  th 
practical  ])rol)lem  of  circulating  a  magazine  in  a  certain  ])ecuUar 
milieu,  which  thing  being  so  I  have  nothing  but  praise  for  the 
way  she  has  done  it.  But  that  magazine  does  not  express  my 
convictions.    Attacks  on  it,  grounded  in  such  belief,  and  under- 


,5 


The   Little   Review  5 

\ 

taken  in  the  magnanimous  hope  of  depriving  me  of  part  of  my 
sustenance,  can  not  be  expected  to  have  more  than  a  temporary 
success  and  that  among  ill-informed  people. 

Blasts  founded  chiefly  in  the  interest  of  the  visual  arts,  is  of 
necessity  suspended.  With  Gaudier-Brzeska  dead  on  the  field 
of  battle,  with  Mr.  William  Roberts,  Mr.  Wadsworth,  Mr. 
Etchells,  and  Mr.  Wyndham  Lewis  all  occupied  in  various 
branches  of  the  service,  there  is  no  new  vorticist  painting  to 
write  about.  Such  manuscript  as  Mr.  Lewis  has  left  with  me, 
and  such  things  as  he  is  able  to  write  in  the  brief  leisure 
allowed  an  artillery  officer,  will  appear  in  these  pages. 

It  is  quite  impossible  that  Blast  should  again  appear  until 
Mr.  Lewis  is  free  to  give  his  full  energy  to  it. 

In  so  far  as  it  is  possible,  I  should  like  The  Little  Revieiv  to 
aid  and  abet  The  Egoist  in  its  work.  I  do  not  think  it  can  be 
too  often  pointed  out  that  during  the  last  four  years  The  Egoist 
has  published  serially,  in  the  face  of  no  inconsiderable  difficul- 
ties, the  only  translation  of  Remy  de  Gourmont's  Chevaux  de 
Diomedes;  the  best  translation  of  Le  Comte  de  Gabalis,  Mr. 
Joyce's  masterpiece  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man, 
and  is  now  publishing  Mr.  Lewis's  novel  Tarr.  Even  if  they 
had  published  nothing  else  there  would  be  no  other  current  peri- 
odical which  could  challenge  this  record,  but  The  Egoist  has 
not  stopped  there ;  they  have  in  a  most  spirited  manner  carried 
out  the  publication  in  book  form  of  the  Portrait  of  the 
Artist,  and  are  in  the  act  of  publishing  Mr.  Eliot's  poems, 
under  the  title  Mr.  Prufrock  and  Observations. 

I  see  no  reason  for  concealing  my  belief  that  the  two  novels, 
by  Joyce  and  Lewis,  and  Mr.  Eliot's  poems  are  not  only  the 
most  important  contributions  to  English  literature  of  the  past 
three  years,  but  that  they  are  practically  the  only  works  of  the 
time  in  which  the  creative  element  is  present,  which  in  any 
way  show  invention,  or  a  progress  beyond  precedent  work.  The 
mass  of  our  contemporaries,  to  say  nothing  of  our  debilitated 
elders,  have  gone  on  repeating  themselves  and  each  other. 


The   Little   Review 


i 

I  ci 


Secondly,  there  are  certain  prevalent  ideas  to  which 
not  subscribe.  I  can  not  believe  that  the  mere  height  of  -^ 
Rocky  Mountains  will  produce  lofty  poetry;  we  have  had  liti 
from  Chimborazo,  the  Alps  or  the  Andes.  I  can  not  belie\ 
that  the  mere  geographical  expanse  of  America  will  produce  ( 
itself  excellent  writing.  The  desert  of  Sahara  is  almost  equall 
vast.  Neither  can  I  look  forward  with  longing  to  a  time  whc 
each  village  shall  rejoice  in  a  bad  local  poetaster  making  ba 
verse  in  the  humdrum  habitual  way  that  the  local  architect  pu 
up  bad  buildings.  The  arts  are  not  the  mediocre  habit  of  mai 
kind.  There  is  no  common  denominator  between  the  little  th; 
is  good  and  the  waste  that  is  dull,  mediocre.  It  may  be  plea 
ing  to  know  that  a  cook  is  president  of  the  local  poetry  sociel 
in  Perigord. — there  is  no  reason  why  a  cook  should  not  wri 
as  well  as  a  plowman, — but  the  combination  of  several  activiti' 
is  really  irrelevant.  The  fact"  remains  that  no  good  poetry  h; 
come  out  of  Perigord  since  the  Albigensian  crusade,  anno  domi 
twelve  .hundred  and  nine.  There  being  a  local  poetry  socie 
has  not  helped  to  prevent  this. 

The  shell-fish  grows  its  own  shell,  the  genius  creates  its  ow 
milieu.     You,  the  public,  can  kill  genius  by  actual  physical  sta 
vation,  you  may  perhaps  thwart  or  distort  it.  but  you  can 
no  way  create  it. 

Because  of  this  simple  fact  the  patron  is  absolutely  at  tl 
mtercy  of  the  artist,  and  the  arti.st  at  the  cost  of  some  discor 
fort — personal,  transient  discomfort — is  almost  wholly  free  ( 
the  patron,  whether  this  latter  be  an  individual,  or  the  liydr 
headed  detestable  v.ulgus. 

There  is  no  misanthropy  in  a  thorough  contempt  for  tl 
mob."  There  is  no  respect  for  mankind  save  in  respect  f< 
detached  individuals. 


The   Little   R  evi  e  zv 


Eeldrop    and    Appleplex 

T.  S.   Eliot 
I. 

EELDROP  and  Appleplex  rented  two  small  rooms  in  a  dis- 
reputable part  of  town.  Here  they  sometimes  came  at 
nightfall,  here  they  sometimes  slept,  and  after  they  had  slept, 
they  cooked  oatmeal  and  departed  in  the  morning  for  destina- 
tions unknown  to  each  other.  They  sometimes  slept,  more  often 
they  talked,  or  looked  out  of  the  window. 

They  had  chosen  the  rooms  and  the  neighborhood  with  great 
care.  There  are  evil  neighborhoods  of  noise  and  evil  neighbor- 
hoods of  silence,  and  Eeldrop  and  Appleplex  preferred  the  lat- 
ter, as  being  the  more  evil.  It  was  a  shady  street,  its  windows 
were  heavily  curtained ;  and  over  it  hung  the  cloud  of  a  respec- 
tability which  has  something  to  conceal.  Yet  it  had  the  advan- 
tage of  more  riotous  neighborhoods  near  by,  and  Eeldrop  and 
Appleplex  commanded  from  their  windows  the  entrance  of  a 
police  station  across  the  way.  This  alone  possessed  an  irre- 
sistible appeal  in  their  eyes.  From  time  to  time  the  silence  of 
the  street  was  broken ;  whenever  a  malefactor  was  apprehended, 
a  wave  of  excitement  curled  into  the  street  and  broke  upon  the 
doors  of  the  police  station.  Then  the  inhabitants  of  the  street 
would  linger  in  dressing-gowns,  upon  their  doorsteps :  then 
alien  visitors  would  linger  in  the  street,  in  caps ;  long  after  the 
centre  of  misery  had  been  engulphed  in  his  cell.  Then  Eeldrop 
and  Appleplex  would  break  off  their  discourse,  and  rush  out  to 
mingle  with  the  mob.  Each  pursued  his  own  line  of  enquiry. 
Appleplex,  who  had  the  gift  of  an  extraordinary  address  with' 
the  lower  classes  of  both  sexes,  questioned  the  onlookers,  and 
usually  extracted  full  and  inconsistent  histories :  Eeldrop  pre- 
served a  more  passive  demeanor,  listened  to  the  conversation  of 
the  people  among  themselves,  registered  in  his  mind  their 
oaths,  their  redundance  of  phrase,  their  various  manners  of 
spitting,   and   the  cries  of  the  victim  from   the  hall  of  justice 


The    Little   Reviezu 


i 


witliin.  When  the  crowd  dispersed,  Eeldrop  and  Applcpl 
returned  to  their  rooms:  Appleplex  entered  the  results  of  : 
inquiries  into  large  note-books,  filed  according  to  the  nature 
the  case,  from  A  (adultery)  to  Y  (yeggmen).  Eeldr 
smoked  reflectively.  It  may  be  added  that  Eeldrop  was  a  sc( 
tic,  with  a  taste  for  mysticism,  and  Appleplex  a  materialist  w 
a  leaning  toward  scepticism;  that  Eeldrop  was  learned  in  the 
ogy,  and  that  Appleplex  studied  the  physical  and  biologi< 
sciences. 

There  was  a  common  motive  which  led  Eeldrop  and  App 
plex  thus  to  separate  themselves  from  time  to  time,  from  t 
fields  of  their  daily  employments  and  their  ordinarily  soc 
activities.  Both  were  endeavoring  to  escape  not  the  commr 
place,  respectable  or  even  the  domestic,  but  the  too  well  pigec 
holed,  too  taken-for-granted,  too  highly  systematized  areas,  ai 
— in  the  language  of  those  whom  they  sought  to  avoid — tli 
wished  "to  apprehend  the  human  soul  in  its  concrete  individ 
ality." 

"Why",  said  Eeldrop,  "was  that  fat  Spaniard,  who  sat  at  t 
table  with  us  this  evening,  and  listened  to  our  conversati' 
with  occasional  curiosity,  why  was  he  himself  for  a  moment  ; 
object  of  interest  to  us?  He  wore  his  napkin  tucked  into  1' 
chin,  he  made  unpleasant  noises  while  eating,  and  while  n 
eating,  his  way  of  crumbling  bread  between  fat  fingers  mac 
me  extremely  nervous :  he  wore  a  waistcoat  cafe  au  lait.  ai 
black  boots  with  brown  tops.  He  was  oppressively  gross  ai 
vulgar ;  he  belonged  to  a  type,  he  could  easily  be  classified 
any  town  of  provincial  Spain.  Yet. under  the  circumstances- 
whoii  we  had  been  discussing  marriage,  and  he  suddenly  leane 
forward  and  exclaimed:  "I  was  married  once  myself" — 'W 
were  able  to  detach  him  from  his  classification  and  regard  hii 
for  a  moment  as  an  unique  being,  a  soul,  however  insignifican 
with  a  history  of  its  own,  once  for  all.  It  is  these  momeni 
which  we  prize,  and  which  alone  are  revealing.  For  anv  vit: 
truth  is  incapable  of  being  applied  to  another  case:  the  essen 


The   Little   R  evi  ezv 


ial  is  unique.     Perhaps  that  is  why  it  is  so  neglected:  because 

is  useless.  What  we  learned  about  that  Spaniard  is  incapable 
)f  being  applied  to  any  other  Spaniard,  or  even  recalled  in 
rvords.  With  the  decline  of  orthodox  theology  and  its  admir- 
.{ible  theory  of  the  soul,  the  unique  importance  of  events  has 
vanished.  A  man  is  only  important  as  he  is  classed.  Hence 
here  is  no  tragedy,  or  no  appreciation  of  tragedy,  which  is  the 
iame  thing.  We  had  been  talking  of  young  Bistwick,  who 
hree  months  ago  married  his  mother's  housemaid  and  now  is 
iware  of  the  fact.  Who  appreciates  the  truth  of  the  matter? 
Sfot  the  relatives,  for  they  are  only  moved  by  affection,  by 
egard  for  Bistwick's  interests,  and  chiefly  by  their  collective 
eeling  of  family  disgrace.  Not  the  generous  minded  and 
houghtful  outsider,  who  regards  it  merely  as  evidence  for  the 
lecessity  of  divorce  law  reform.  Bistwick  is  classed  among  the 
mhappily  married.  But  what  Bistwick  feels  when  he  wakes  up 
n  the  morning,  which  is  the  great  important  fact,  no  detached 
)utsider  conceives.     The  awful  importance  of  the  ruin  of  a  life 

overlooked.  Men  are  only  allowed  to  be  happy  or  miserable 
n  classes.  In  Gopsum  Street  a  man  murders  his  mistress.  The 
mportant  fact  is  that  for  the  man  the  act  is  eternal,  and  that 
or  the  brief  space  he  has  to  live,  he  is  already  dead.  He  is 
ilready  in  a  different  world  from  ours.  He  has  crossed  the 
rontier.  The  important  fact  that  something  is  done  which  can 
lot  be  undone — a  possibility  which  none  of  us  realize  until  we 
ace  it  ourselves.     For  the  man's  neighbors  the  important  fact 

what  the  man  killed  her  with?  And  at  precisely  what  time? 
\nd  who  found  the  body?  For  the  "enlightened  public''  the 
ase  is  merely  evidence  for  the  Drink  question,  or  Unemploy- 
nent,  or  some  other  category  of  things  o  be  reformed.  But 
he  mediaeval  world,  insisting  on  the  eternity  of  punishment, 
xpressed  something  nearer  the  truth. 

"What  you  say,"  replied  Appleplex,  "commands  my  meas- 
ured adherence.  I  should  think,  in  the  case  of  the  Spaniard, 
md  in  the  many  other  interesting  cases  which  have  come  under 


lo  T  h  e  Little  Review 


our  attention  at  the  door  of  the  pohce  station,  what  we  grasp 
in  that  moment  of  pure  observation  on  which  we  pride  our- 
selves, is  not  alien  to  the  principle  of  classification,  but  deeper. 
We  could  if  we  liked,  make  excellent  comment  ui^n  the  nature 
of  provincial  Spaniards,  or  of  destitution  (as  misery  is  called 
by  the  philanthropists),  or  on  homes  for  working  girls.  But 
such  is  not  our  intention.  We  aim  at  exi)eriencc  in  tlic  par- 
ticular centres  in  which  alone  it  is  evil.  "  We  avoid  classifica- 
tion. We  do  not  deny  it.  But  when  a  man  is  classified  soni< 
thing  is  lost.  The  majority  of  mankind  live  on  paper  currency: 
they  use  terms  which  are  merely  good  for  so  much  reality, 
they  never  see  actual  coinage." 

"I  should  go  even  further  than  that,"  said  Eeldrop.  "The 
majority  not  only  have  no  language  to  express  anything  save 
generalized  man;  they  are  for  the  most  part  unaware  of  them- 
selves as  anything  but  generalized  men.  They  are  first  of  all 
government  officials,  or  pillars  of  the  church,  or  trade  union- 
ists, or  poets,  or  unemployed ;  this  cataloguing  is  not  only  satis- 
facory  to  other  people  for  practical  purposes,  it  is  sufficient  to 
themselves  for  their  'life  of  the  spirit.'  Many  are  not  quite 
real  at  any  moment.  When  Wolstrip  married,  I  am  sure  he 
said  to  himself:  'Now  I  am  consummating  the  union  of  two 
of  the  best  families  in  Philadelphia.'  " 

"The  question  is,"  said  Appleplex,  "what  is  to  be  our  philos- 
ophy. This  must  be  settled  at  once.  Mrs.  Howexden  recom- 
mends me  to  read  Bergson.  He  writes  very  entertainingly  on 
the  structure  of  the  eye  of  the  frog." 

"Not  at  all,"  interrupted  his  friend.  "Our  philosophy  is 
quite  irrelevant.  The  essential  is,  that  our  philosophy  should 
spring  from  our  point  of  view  and  not  return  upon  itself  to 
explain  our  point  of  view.  A  philosophy  about  intuition  is 
somewhat  less  likely  to  be  intuitive  than  any  other.  We  miist 
avoid  having  a  platform." 

"But  at  least,"  said  Appleplex,  "we  are     .     .     ." 

"Individualists.     No!    !  nor    anti-intellecfualists.     These    also 


The   Little    Review  ii 


re  labels.  The  'individualist'  is  a  member  of  a  mob  as  fully 
•s  any  other  man :  and  the  mob  of  individualists  is  the  most 
mpl easing,  because  it  has  the  least  character.  Nietzsche  was  a 
nob-man,  just  as  Bergson  is  an  intellectualist.  We  cannot 
scape  the  label,  but  let  it  be  one  which  carries  no  distinction, 
,nd  arouses  no  self-consciousness.  Sufficient  that  we  should 
ind  simple  labels,  and  not  further  exploit  them.  I  am,  I  con- 
ess  to  you,  in  private  life,  a  bank-clerk.     .     .     ." 

"And  should,  according  to  your  own  view,  have  a  wife,  three 
:hildren,  and  a  vegetable  garden  in  a  suburb,"  said  Appleplex. 

"Such  is  precisely  the  case,"  returned  Eeldrop,  "but  I  had 
lot  thought  it  necessary  to  mention  this  biographical  detail.  As 
t  is  Saturday  night,  I  shall  return  to  my  suburb.  Tomorrow 
vill  be  spent  in  that  garden.     .     .     ." 

I  shall  pay  my  call  on  Mrs.  Howexden,"  murmured  Apple- 
►lex. 

(Next   chapter  in  June  number.) 


Pierrots 

Scene  courte  mais  typique 

(After  the  "Pierrots"  of  Jules  Laforgue.) 

John  Hall 

(^our  eyes !     Since  I  lost  their  incandescence 

^lat  calm  engulphs  my  jibs, 

The  shudder  of  Vae  soli  gurgles  beneath  my  ribs. 

fou  should  have  seen  me  after  the  affray, 

rushed  about  in  the  most  agitated  way 
>ying:    My  God,  My  God,  what  will  she  say? 

vly  soul's  antennae  are  prey  to  such  perturbations, 
kiVounded  by  your  indirectness  in  these  situations 
\nd  your  bundle  of  mundane  complications. 


12  T  h  c  Li  1 1 1  e  R  e  vi  ew 


Your  eyes  put  me  up  to  it. 

I  thought:    Yes,  divine,  these  yes,  but  what  exists 

Behind  them?    What's  there?    Her  soul's  an  afifair  for  oculists. 

And  1  am  sliced  with  loyal  aesthetics. 
'  Hate  tremolos  and  national  frenetics. 
In  brief,  violet  is  the  ground  tone  of  my  phonetics. 

I  am  not  "that  chap  there''  nor  yet  "The  Superb." 
But  my  soul,  the  sort  which  harsh  sounds  disturb. 
Is,  at  bottom,  distinguished  and  fresh  as  a  March  herb. 

My  nerves  still  register  the  sounds  of  contra-bass', 
I  can  walk  about  without  fidgeting  when  people  pass. 
Without  smirking  into  a  pocket-looking-glass. 

Yes,  I  have  rubbed  shoulders  and  knocked  oflf  my  chips 
Outside  your  set  but,  having  kept  faith  in  your  eyes, 

You  might  pardon  such  slips. 

■  j 

Eh,  make  it  up? — 

Soothings,  confessions;  | 

These  new  concessions 

Hurl  me  into  such  a  mass  of  divergent  impressions. 

{Exit.) 

Jodindranath  Mawhwor's  Occupation     j 

Ezra  Pound  * 

THE  soul  of  Jodindranath  Mawhwor  clove  to  the  god  of  this] 
universe  and  he  meditated  the  law  of  the  Shastras. 
He  was  a  man  of  moderate  income  inherited  for  the  most 
part  from  his   fathers,  of   whom  there  \yere  sevevral,   slightly 
augmented  by  his  own  rather  desultory  operations  of  commerce.  I 


TheLittle   Review  13 


.He  had  never  made  money  by  conquest  and  was  inclined  to 
regard  this  method  of  acquisition  as  antiquated;  as  belonging 
rather  to  the  days  of  his  favorite  author  than  to  our  own. 

He  had  followed  the  advice  of  the  Sutras,  had  become  the 
Jiead  of  an  house  in  the  not  unprosperous  city  of  Migdalb,  ni 
a  quarter  where  dwelt  a  reasonable  proportion  of  fairly  honest 
and  honourable  people  not  unaverse  to  gossip  and  visits.  His 
house  was  situated  by  a  watercourse,  in  lieu  of  new  fangled 
plumbing,  and  in  this  his  custom  was  at  one  with  that  of  the 
earliest  Celts.  It  was  divided  in  various  chambers  for  various 
occupations,  surrounded  by  a  commodious  garden,  and  pos- 
sessed of  the  two  chief  chambers,  the  "exterior''  and  the  "in- 
terior" (butt  and  ben).  The  interior  was  the  place  for  his 
women,  the  exterior  enhanced  with  rich  perfumes,  contained 
a  bed,  soft,  luscious,  and  agreeable  to  the  action  of  vision, 
covered  with  a  cloth  of  unrivalled  whiteness.  It  was  a  little 
humped  in  the  middle,  and  surmounted  with  garlands  and 
bundles  of  flowers,  which  were  sometimes  renewed  in  the  morn- 
ing. Upon  it  were  also  a  coverlet  brightly  embroidered  and 
two  cylindrical  pillows,  one  at  the  head  and  the  other  placed  at 
the  foot.  There  was  also  a  sort  of  sofa  or  bed  for  repose,  at 
the  head  of  which  stood  a  case  for  unguents,  and  perfumes  to 
be  used  during  the  night,  and  a  stand  for  flowers  and  pots  of 
cosmetic  and  other  odoriferous  substances,  essences  for  per- 
fuming the  breath,  new  cut  slices  of  lemon  peel  and  such  things 
as  were  fitting.  On  the  floor  near  the  sofa  rested  a  metal  spit- 
toon, and  a  toilet  case,  and  above  it  was  a  luth  suspended  from 
an  elephant's  tusk,  uncut  but  banded  with  silver.  There  was 
also  a  drawing  table,  a  bowl  of  perfume,  a  few  books,  and  a 
garland  of  amaranths.  Further  ofif  was  a  sort  of  round  chair 
or  tabouret,  a  chest  containing  a  chess  board,  and  a  low  table 
for  dicing.  In  the  outer  apartment  were  cages  for  Jodindra- 
nath's  birds.  'He  had  a  great  many  too  many.  There  were 
separate  small  rooms  for  spinning,  and  one  for  carving  in  wood 
and  such  like  dilettantismes.     In  the  garden  was  a  sort  of  merry- 


14  T  h  c    L  i  1 1 1  e    R  e  V  i  e  w 


go-round  of  good  rope,  looking  more  or  less  like  a  May-poljE 
There  was  likewise  a  common  see-saw  or  teeter,  a  green  houst 
a  sort  of  rock  garden,  and  two  not  too  comfortable  benches. 

2. 

jodindranath  rose  in  the  morning  and  brushed  his  teeth,  afte 
having  performed  other  unavoidable  duties  as  prescribed  i 
the  sutra,  and  he  ai)plied  to  his  body  a  not  excessive,  as  he  cor 
sidered  it,  amount  of  unguents  and  perfumes.  He  then  blacV 
ened  his  eyebrows,  drew  faint  lines  under  his  eyes,  put  a  fai 
deal  of  rouge  on  his  lips,  and  regarded  himself  in  a  mirro 
Then  having  chewed  a  few  betel  leaves  to  perfume  his  breatl 
and  munched  another  bonne-bouche  of  perfume,  he  set  aboi 
his  day's  business.  He  was  a  creature  of  habit.  That  is  1 
say,  he  bathed,  daily.  And  upon  alternate  days  he  anointed  h 
person  with  oil,  and  on  the  third  day  he  lamented  that  t^e  mos^ 
substance  employed  by  the  earliest  orthodox  hindoos  wias  r 
longer  obtainable.  He  had  never  been  brought  to  regard  soi 
with  complaisance.  His  conscience  was  troubled,  both  as  to  tl 
religious  and  social  bearing  of  this  solidified  grease.  He  suspec 
ed  the  presence  of  beef-suet,  it  was  at  best  a  parvenu  and  M* 
hametan  substance.  Every  four  days  he  shaved, '  that  is 
say,  he  shaved  his  head  and  his  visage,  every  five  or  ten  da; 
he  shaved  all  the  rest  of  his  hody.  He  meticulously  remove 
the  sweat  from  his  arm-pits.  He  ate  three  meals  daily;  in  tl 
morning,  afternoon  and  at  evening  as  is  prescribed  in  tl 
Charayana. 

Immediately  after  breakfast  he  spent  some  time  instructii 
his  parrots  in  language.  He  then  proceeded  to  cock-fights,  qua 
fights  and  ram-fights ;  from  them  to  the  classical  plays,  thou| 
their  representations  have  sadly  diminished.  He  slept  son 
hours  at  mid-day.  Then,  as  is  befitting  to  the  head  of  an  hous 
he  had  himself  arrayed  in  his  ornaments  and  habiliment  ai 
passed  the  afternoon  in  talk  with  his  friends  and  acquaintanc 
The  evening  was  given  over  to  singing.  Toward  the  end  of 
Jodindranath.  as  the  head  of  his  house,  retaining  only  one  friei 


The  Little  R  e  vi  ew  15 

in  his  company,  sat  waiting  in  the  aforementioned  perfumed 
and  well  arranged  chamber.  As  the  lady  with  whom  he  was  at 
that  time  connected  did  no  arrive  on  the  instant,  he  considered 
sending  a  messenger  to  reproach  her.  The  atmosphere  grew 
uneasy.     His  friend  Mohon  fidgeted  slightly. 

Then  the  lady  arrived.  Mohon,  his  friend,  rose  graciously 
bidding  her  welcome,  spoke  a  few  pleasant  words  and  retired. 
Jodinranath  remained.  And  for  that  day,  the  twenty  fifth  of 
August,  1916,  this  was  his  last  occupation.  In  this  respect  the 
day  resembled  all  others. 

This  sort  of  thing  has  gone  on  for  thirty  five  hundred  years 
and  there  have  been  no  disastrous  consequences. 

3- 

As  to  Jodindranath's  thoughts  and  acts  after  Mohon  had  left 
jhim,  I  can  speak  with  no  definite  certainty.  I  know  that  my 
friend  was  deeply  religious ;  that  he  modeled  his  life  on  the 
Shatras  and  somewhat  on  the  Sutra.  To  the  Kama  Sutra  he 
had  given  minute  attention.  He  was  firmly  convinced  that  one 
should  not  take  one's  pleasure  with  a  woman  who  was  a  lunatic, 
or  leperous,  or  too  white,  or  too  black,  or  who  gave  forth  an 
unpleasant  odor,  or  who  lived  an  ascetic  life,  or  whose  husband 
was  a  man  given  to  wrath  and  possessed  of  inordinate  power. 
These  points  were  to  him  a  matter  of  grave  religion. 

He  considered  that  his  friends  .should  be  constant  and  that 
they  should  assist  his  designs. 

He  considered  it  fitting  that  a  citizen  should  enter  into  rela- 
tions with  laundrymen,  barbers,  cowmen,  florists,  druggists, 
merchants  of  betel  leaves,  cab-drivers,  and  with  the  wives  of 
all  these. 

He  had  carefully  considered  the  sizes  and  shapes  and  ancient 
categories  of  women ;  to  wit,  those  which  should  be  classified 
as  she-dog,  she-horse,  and  she-elephant,  according  to  their  cubic 
volume.  He  agreed  with  the  classic  author  who  recommends 
men  to  choose  women  about  their  own  size. 

The  doctrine  that  love  results  either  from  continuous  habit. 


i6  The  Little  Review 


from  imagination,  from  faith,  or  from  the  perception  of  exterior 
objects,  or  from  a  mixture  of  some  or  all  of  these  causes,  gave 
him  no  difficulty.     He  accepted  the  old  authors  freely. 

We  have  left  him  with  Lalunmokish  seated  upon  the  bed 
humped  in  the  middle.  I  can  but  add  that  he  had  carefully 
considered  the  definitions  laid  down  in  the  Sutra;  kiss  nominal, 
kiss  palpitant,  kiss  contactic,  tiie  kiss  of  one  lip  and  of  two  lips 
(preferring  the  latter),  the  kiss  transferred,  the  kiss  showing 
intention.  Beyond  this  he  had  studied  the  various  methods  of 
scratching  and  tickling,  and  the  nail  pressures  as  follows :  sonor- 
ous, half  moon  and  circle,  peacock-claw,  and  blue-lotus. 

He  considered  that  the  Sutra  was  too  vague  when  it  described  j 
the  Bengali  women,  saying  that  they  have  large  nails,  and  thalf- 
the  southern  women  have  small  nails,  which  may  serve  in 
divers  manners  for  giving  pleasure  but  give  less  grace  to  the 
hand.  Biting  he  did  not  much  approve.  Nor  was  he  very 
greatly  impressed  with  the  literary  tastes  of  the  public  women  in 
Paraliputra.  He  read  books,  but  not  a  great  many.  He  pre- 
ferred conversation  which  did  not  leave  the  main  groove.  He 
did  not  mind  its  being  familiar. 

(For  myself  I  can  only  profess  the  deepest  respect  for  the 
women  of  Paraliputra,  who  have  ever  been  the  friends  of  brah- 
mins and  of  students  and  who  have  greatly  supported  the  arts.) 

4- 

Upon  the  day  following,  as  Jodindranath  was  retiring  for  hisjj 
mid-day  repose,  his  son  entered  the  perfumed  apartment.     Jod-| 
indra  closed  the  book  he  had  been  reading.     The  boy  was  about] 
twelve  years  of  age.     Jodindra  began  to  instruct  him,  but  with- 
out indicating  what   remarks   were  his  own  and  what   derived 
from  ancient  authority.     He  said: — i 

"Flower  of  my  life,  lotus  bud  of  the  parent  stem,  you  must 
preserve  our  line  and  keep  fat  our  ancestral  spirits  lest  they  be 
found  withered  like  bats,  as  is  said  in  the  Mahabharata.     And 
for  this  purpose  you  will  doubtless  marry  a  virgin  of  your  own  J 
caste  and  acquire  a  legal  posterity  and  a  good  reputation.     Still 


The  Little  Revie  IV  17 


the  usage  of  women  is  not  for  one  purpose  only,  for  what  pur- 
pose is  the  usage  of  women?" 

"The  use  of  women,"  answered  the  boy,  "is  for  generation 
and  pleasure." 

"There  is  also  a  third  use,"  said  his  father,  "yet  with  certain 
women  you  must  not  mingle.     Who  are  the  prohibited  women?" 

The  boy  answered,  "We  should  not  practise  dalliance  with  the 
women  of  higher  caste,  or  with  those  whom  another  has  had  for 
his  pleasure,  even  though  they  are  of  our  own  caste.  But  the 
practise  of  dalliance  with  women  of  lower  caste,  and  with 
women  expelled  from  their  own  caste,  and  with  public  women, 
and  with  women  who  have  been  twice  married  is  neither  com- 
manded us  nor  forbidden." 

"With  such  women,"  said  Jodindranath,  "dalliance  has  no 
object  save  pleasure.  But  there  are  seasons  in  life  when  one 
should  think  broadly.  There  are  circumstances  when  you  should 
not  merely  parrot  a  text  or  think  only  as  you  have  been  told  by 
your  tutor.  As  in  dalliance  itself  there  is  no  text  to  be  followed 
verbatim,  for  a  man  should  trust  in  part  to  the  whim  of  the 
moment  and  not  govern  himself  wholly  by  rules,  so  in  making 
your  career  and  position,  you  should  think  of  more  things  than 
generation  and  pleasure. 

"You  need  not  say  merely :  'The  woman  is  willing'  or  'She 
has  been  two  times  married,  what  harm  can  there  be  in  this 
business?'  These  are  mere  thoughts  of  the  senses,  impractical 
fancies.  But  you  have  your  life  before  you,  and  perchance  a 
time  will  come  when  you  may  say,  'This  woman  has  gained  the 
heart  of  a  very  great  husband,  and  rules  him,  and  he  is  a  friend 
of  my  enemy,  if  I  can  gain  favor  with  her,  she  will  persuade 
him  to  give  up  my  enemy.'  My  son,  you  must  manage  your 
rudder.  And  again,  if  her  husband  have  some  evil  design 
against  you,  she  may  divert  him,  or  again  you  may  say,  'If  I 
gain  her  favor  I  may  then  make  an  end  of  her  husband  and  we 
shall  have  all  his  great  riches'.  Or  if  you  should  fall  into 
misfortune  and  say,  'A  liaison  with  this  woman  is  in  no  way 


i8  -    TheLittleReview 

beset  with  danger,  she  will  bring  me  a  very  large  treasure,  of 
which  I  am  greatly  in  need  considering  my  pestilent  poverty 
and  my  inability   to   make   a   good   living.' 

"Or  again:    'This   woman   knows   my   weak  joints,  and  if   I  ! 
refuse  her  she   will  blab  them  abroad  and  tarnish  my  reputa- 
tion.     And  she  will  set  her  husband  against  me.' 

"Or  again :  'This  woman's  husband  has  violated  my  women, 
1  will  give  him  his  own  with  good  interest.' 

"Or  again:  'With  this  woman's  aid  I  may  kill  the  enemy  of 
Raja,  whom  I  have  been  ordered  to  kill,  and  she  hides  him.' 

"Or  again:  'The  woman  I  love  is  under  this  female's  influ- 
ence, I  will  use  one  as  the  road  to  the  other.' 

"Or:  'This  woman  will  get  me  a  rich  wife  whom  I  cannot 
get  at  without  her.'  No,  my  Blue  Lotus,  life  is  a  serious  mat- 
ter. You  will  not  always  have  me  to  guide  you.  You  must 
think  of  practical  matters.  Under  such  circumstances  you 
should  ally  yourself  with  such  women." 

Thus  spoke  Jodindra;  but  the  council  is  very  ancient  and  is 
mostly  to  be  found  in  the  Sutras.  These  books  have  been 
thought  very  holy.  They  contain  chapters  on  pillules  and 
philtres. 

When  Jodindranath  had  finished  this  speech  he  sank  back 
upon  one  of  the  cylindrical  cushions.  In  a  few  moments  his 
head  bowed  in  slumber.  This  was  the  day  for  oil.  The  next 
day  he  shaved  his  whole  body.    His  life  is  not  unduly  ruffled. 

Upon  another  day  Jodindranath  said  to  his  son,  "There  are 
certain  low  women,  people  of  ill  repute,  addicted  to  avarice. 
You  should  not  converse  with  them  at  the  street  corners,  lest 
your  creditors   see  you." 

His  son's  life  was  not  unduly  ruffltd. 


T  he  Lit  tl  e  Reviezv  19 


Imaginary  Letters 

(Six  Letters  of  William  Bland  Burn  to  his  Wife) 
Wyndham  Lewis 

Petrograd,  January  7,  191 7. 

DEAR  Lydia, 
Your  amiable  letter  to  hand.  I  am  glad  Yorke's  cold 
is  better.  He  has  not  a  throat  of  iron — tout  comme  son 
pere.  But  I  should  not  wrap  it  up — When  he  hears  me  in 
the  house  he  always  comes  leaping  in  my  direction;  but  the 
moment  he  sees  me,  he  seem,'s  to  grow  old  and  sober,  rather 
ihan  shy,  and  when  he  gets  within  about  five  yards  of  me, 
makes  some  innocently  aggressive  remark.  I  wish  I  could  see 
him  more.  These  long  absences  at  the  ends  of  the  Earth  pre- 
vent that.     He  thinks  me  a  casual  beggar  I  believe. 

I  am  glad  you  ask  me  those  questions.  "Why  not  be  happy?" 
The  chief  use  of  a  wife,  after  love,  is  to  disgust  you  with  your 
weaknesses,  and  to  watch  them  constantly  returning,  by  all  sorts 
of  bye-ways,  to  the  attack.  Or  rather  they  seem  to  regard  a 
wife  as  ideal  "cover,"  and  a  first-rate  avenue  of  return.  You 
kick  one  out  one  day,  and  you  find  him  the  next  skulking 
beneath  your  wife's  petticoat  waiting  his  chance.  The  conjugal 
skirt  is  a  trap  from  which,  any  day  you  feel  like  hunting,  you 
can  return  with  a  full  bag. 

"Why  not  be  happy?"  That  is,  why  not  abandon  the  plane 
of  exasperation  and  restlessness,  and  be  content  with  the 
approximations  and  self-deceptions  of  the  majority?  Well,  of 
course  happiness  of  that  sort  is  not  within  my  grasp,  if  I  wished 
it.  But  why  expect  from  you  a  perpetual  discipline?  That  dis- 
cipline is  however,  at  least  as  easy  for  you  as  for  me,  if  you 
think  of  it.     The  serenity  and  ease  with  which  you  accomplish 


20  T  he   Little  Review 


the  most  gruesome  self-restraints  at  first  surprised  me — until  1 
remembered  that  you  did  not  take  them  seriously,  like  me,  or 
suffer  from  their  necessity.  Not  having  a  sense  of  values  (very  ; 
roughly  a  masculine  corner)  but  only  the  complacency  of  an 
obedient  mummer,  you  cover  the  harshest  ground  with  Spartan 
face.  It  is  only  when  you  are  left  alone  that  you  complain  or 
question  seriously.  You  forget  a  little  the  intricacies  of  our 
ceremonial  dance,  and  find  that  worrying.  Don't  be  offended  at 
what  I  have  been  saying.  You  need  not  l)e  ashamed  of  being 
calmly  hypnotic.  Yorke  was  older  than  you  when  he  was  born. 
We  should  all  be  mad  if  our  mothers  did  not  invigorate  us  with 
the  airs  of  a  twinkling,  early  and  sweet  world,  and  feed  us 
with  a  remote   "happiness." 

You  want  more  ".happiness,"  though,  for  your  child.  Why? 
I  would  not  be  anything  but  what  I  am  (unless  I  could  find 
something  "unhappier")  and  why  should  he,  in  the  future,  wish 
to  be  anything  but  wJiat  I  think  he  will  become?  There  is  an 
intoxication  in  the  vistas  of  effort  and  self-castigation  which 
cannot  be  bought  with  "happiness."  Again  you  might  say, 
"Why  be  so  hard  on  this  person  or  on  that,  and  not  accept  him 
as  a  "good  fellow/'  or  take  him  at  the  valuation  of  the  world, 
and  derive  amusement  and  senti'mental  satisfaction  from  him, 
Richards,  Hepburn,  Tom,  Mrs.  Fisher  Wake  etc.,  etc.  They 
have  all  been  "quarrelled  with."  That  is,  I  have  not  been  civil, 
and  we  do  not  see  them'.  But  I  have  left  you  a  Menu  of  equally 
amusing  birds  to  while  away  life  with.  You  would  have  quar- 
relled with  the  first  lot  in  time  and  in  due  course  on  unreason- 
able grounds,  if  I  had  not  forestalled  you.  T  have  merely  done 
the  job  cleanly  and  reasonably.  Clean  is  not  the  word,  you 
argue,  for  this  cold-blooded  process.  It  is  not  veiled  in  the 
forms  and  frenzies  of  life,  but  indecently  done  before  people 
shocked  into  attention.  The  intellect  is  cruel  and  repugnant. 
Dirty,  that  is.     (Everything  loathesome  is  related  to  dirt), 

I  am  attributing  a  line  of  argument  to  you  and  a  tone,  which 
your  questions  do  not  warrant.     But  T  am  taking  them  to  their 


The  Littl  e  Revi  ew  21 


ultimate  development.  I  must  always  do  this,  c'est  men  mal  et 
mon  gloire. 

Thousands  of  beautiful  women  have  spent  their  lives  in 
cloisters;  there  are  millions  of  old  maids.  When  I  am  with 
you  I  show  a  full,  if  not  excessive,  appreciation  of  your  sex. 
You  have  a  child.  With  a  sort  of  lofty  cunning  you  dote  on  my 
cleverness  and  improve  your  own.  You  would  not  be  with  me 
if  you  required  anything  much  different  from  what  you  get. 
But  still  you  deplore  some  of  my  notions  and  habits.  I  sus- 
pect my  friend  Villerant  of  having  smiled  at  my  naivete,  and 
also  suggested  that  in  some  things  I  was  cracked  and  difficult. 

I  will  follow  the  line  of  argument  that  your  questions  imply : 
"Why  not  ease  off  a  Httle?"  You  would  say,  "You  will  admit 
that  it  is  uncomfortable  to  be  at  loggerheads  with  anybody. 
You  flatter  a  person  by  taking  .so  much  notice  of  him  as  to  turn 
your  back." 

(At  this  point  I  interject:  "It  is  nevertheless  more  com- 
fortable for  me,  in  the  long  run,  to  be  rude  than  to  be  polite. 
It  is  a  physical  discomfort  not  to  show,  after  a  time,  my  feel- 
ings.) 

You  continue :  "Being  so  easily  disgusted  with  people  sug- 
gests a  naive  idealispi.  We  are  all  ridiculous,  looked  at  prop- 
erly, by  means  of  our  little  forked  bodies.  We  are  disgusting 
physically  (except  a  few  in  their  fluffy  and  velvety  youth).  So 
why  carp,  and  glare,  and  sheer  off?  Take  life,  in  the  English- 
civilized  way,  as  a  joke;  our  funnybodies  and  their  peculiar 
needs,  our  ambitions,  greeds,  as  comic  stunts  of  an  evidently 
gentleman-creator,  who  is  most  unquestionably  "a  sport." 

At  this  point,  my  dear  lady,  I  am  going  to  stop  you,  and 
bring  in  the  counter-flux ;  release  the  over-mounting  objections. 

First.  I  feel  that  we  are  obviously  in  the  position  of  Ulys- 
ses' companions ;  and  there  is  nothing  I  resent  more  than  people 
settling  down  to  become  what  is  sensible  for  a  swine.  I  will 
still  stalk  about  with  my  stumpy  legs,  and  hold  my  snout  high, 
however  absurd  it  may  be.     We  must  get  through  this  enchant- 


22  T  h  e  Li  t  tl  e  R  eview 

ment  without  too  many  memories  of  abasement.  We  most  need, 
in  the  inner  fact,  changing  back  into  men  again!  And  I  don't 
want  the  "happiness"  of  the  swill-pail,  but  a  perpetual  restless- 
ness until  the  magic  is  over!  I  set  out  somewhere  on  a  legen- 
dary expedition^  I  do  not  date  from  Nineteen  Two.=  I  do  not 
feci  like  sniggering  over  our  plight.  I  am  permanently  in  a 
bad  temper  !=     (1  am  not  a  "a  sport.") 

So!     So!     So! 
Society,  nTo.st  people,  have    their    little    bit    of    beauty    and 
energy  which  is  a  small  compartment  of  life.     The  rest  is  the 
gentleman-animal,  which  ambles   along,   the  end-in-itself=     oh 
yes ! 

I  do  not  like  the  gentleman-animal.  He  is  a  poor  beast. 
His  glory  is  to  belong  to  a  distinguished  herd.  He  prefers  to 
himself  a  Human  Cliche  of  manners,  catch-phrases,  fashion- 
able slang,  herd- voice  (when  he  Baas  the  well-instructed  can 
instantly  tell  that  he  comes  from  a  2'ery  distinguished  herd ;  or 
from  a  quite  good  herd;  or  from  a  respectable  herd;  as  the  case 
may  be.  When  he  hears  a  similar  Baa  he  pricks  his  ears  up,  and 
Baas  more  loudly  and  lispingly  himself,  to  show  his  label  and 
that  he  is  there,  he  prefers  a  code  which  is,  most  of  it,  imbecile 
in  its  inductions,  impracticable,  and  not  holding  water.  Human 
weakness,  human  need — 'is  the  worse  for  a  gloss.  You  do  not 
agree?     I  have  that  feeling  very  strongly. 

But  I  have  amplified  too-  much,  and  will  return  to  what  I 
wished  immediately  to  say.=  The  best  that  most  people  can  see 
is  the  amiable-comic,  the  comfortable,  the  advantages  of  the 
gentleman-animal.  I,  who  see  beauty  and  energ)'  so  much  that 
they  bulk  and  outweigh  a  thousand  times  these  cowardly  con- 
tentments and  pis-allers,  why  should  you  expect  me  to  admit 
society  as  anything  but  an  organized  poltrooney  and  forgetful- 
ness?  The  gentleman-animal  has  his  points.  And  it  is  just 
when  he  is  successful  that  we  should  dislike  him  most.  For  he 
is  the  most  cunning  eflfort  of  society  to  close  its  eyes  and  clog 


The  Little  Review  23 

its  ears.     He  is  the  great  sham  reconcihation  and  justifying  of 
ease. 

I  must  leave  you  at  this,  my  dear  woman,  as  I  have  to  cor- 
rect proofs  wanted  to-morrow  and  twice  written  for.=  In 
glancing  through  what  I  have  written  in  this  letter,  I  find  things 
that,  were  I  writing  for  any  but  a  familiar  ear,  would  require 
restating.  There  is  an  implication,  for  instance,  that  enthusi- 
astic herd-man  could,  if  he  would,  produce  some  excellent  ego 
in  place  of  his  social  self,  and  that  it  is  this  immoral  waste  of 
fine  material  that  I  object  to=  whereas  of  course  he  is  radically 
boring  and  obnoxious.  He  is  a  perfect  metis,  the  gentleman- 
animal,  having  crossed  consummately  his  human  and  inhuman 
qualities.  I  like  to  see  things  side  by  side,  perfectly  dual  and 
unmixed.     Neither  side  of  a  man  is  responsible  for  the  other. 

But  you  know  my  ideas  on  these  subjects  and  can  dialogue 
for  me  as  I  have  for  you. 

I  wish,  Lydia,  you  were  here,  with  your  body  rasping  under 
mine  now.     We  could  beat  out  this  argument  to  another  tune. 

Send  me  more  of  Villerant's  Aunt  Sally's,  or  anybody  else's, 
to  bowl  at.  I  like  these  immemorial  phizzes  stuck  up  within 
easy  reach.     I  have  bags  full  of  cocoa-nuts ! 

As  far  as  I  can  see  I .  shall  be  stopping  over  here  at  least 
another  six  weeks.  The  war  continues!  I  was  sorry  to  hear 
Grant  had  been  blown  up.  It  sounds  like  a  practical  joke.  I 
hope  Pampas  will  take  care  of  himself.=  Much  occurs  here  of 
the  strangest.  The  Russian  factor  is  quite  curious  in  this  game. 
It  is  really,  much  more  than  the  other  countries,  a  theatre  to 
itself,  carrying  on  a  play  of  quite  a  different  description.  Kiss 
Yorke  for  me.     All  love  to  yourself. 

Yours,  William  Bum. 
{Next  letter  of  series  will  appear  in  June  number.) 


24  T  he  Little  R  eview 


Prose   Coronales 

Morris  Ward 

To  G.  M.  Chadwick 

"I  the  reed  was  a  useless  plant;  for  out  of  mc 
grow  not  figs  nor  apple  nor  grape-cluster ;  but  man 
consecrated  me  in  the  mysteries  of  Helicon,  pierc- 
ing my  frail  lips  and  making  me  the  channel  of  a 
narrow  stream;  and  thenceforth  whenever  I  sip 
the  black  drink,  like  one  inspired  I  speak  all  words 
with  this  voiceless  mouth." — From  the  Greek 
Anthology.    Anonymous. 

I 
The  New  Daivn 

"You  have  slept  long,  oh  heart!  And  you,  my  heart's  dear 
comrade,  whom  men  call  Beauty — why  have  you  awakened  me 
once  more  and  made  my  bed  no  longer  roses  but  sharp  thorns?"' 
— "Too  many  are  yet  asleep:  they  have  slept  overlong.  You 
must  awaken  now  and  once  more,  in  this  golden  dawning,  sing 
to  them  and  to  this  silence  round  about  them  out  of  your  soul's 
rich  pain,  out  of  your  body's  weariness.  Sing,  then,  sing!" — ■ 
"I  will,  dear  my  heart,  my  Beauty,  I  will!  But  oh,  the  silence, 
this  silence !" 

II 
At  Evening 

The  lamp  shines  low  in  the  silent  room,  and  the  lonely  poet 
dreams  of  long- forgotten  evenings.  Putting  aside  the  volume 
in  my  hand  I  caress  the  sumptuous  fur  of  the  cat  asleep  on  my 
knees,  crooning  to  myself  the  while  an  old  old  folk  song.  With- 
out, stretching  far  away  into  the  horizon,  the  fields  of  golden 
wheat  sway  to  and  fro  under  the  moon's  full  hght ;  and  on  tiic 
screen  of  the  window  a  single  moth  clings  motionless,  its  fire- 


The  Little  Revie  IV  25 


like  eyes  drinking  long  draughts  of  the  light  which  it  cannot 
reach.— Oh  moth!  why  should  you  love  so  well  the  thing  that 
seeks  your  death?     ... 
An  Invocation 

III 

You  who  love  Beauty  as  the  bee  loves  the  flower,  as  the  bird 
loves  the  air— ihail!  You  who  lie  awake  at  night  dreaming  of 
the  Beauty  that  is  in  the  world  yet  not  of  the  world— all  hail! 
You  whose  life  is  like  a  broken  song  trailing  through  the  cease- 
less monotone  of  human  things — hail  and  farewell! 

We  were  not  long  together,  but  haply  neither  will  soon  for- 
get. Almost  we  understood  each  other,  and  in  all  the  world 
there  is  no  word  that  touches  life  so  quickly  as  "almost".  And 
on  that  word  we  parted. 

Because  you  have  not  learned  that  Beauty  never  stops  to 
kiss  her  chosen  ones.  You  do  not  know  that  with  her  sweet, 
too-sweet  and  awful  breath  alone  does  she  condemn  them  to 
journey  forever  from  flower  to  flower  by  day,  by  night  from 
star  to  star.  Even  as  you  journey,  a  frail,  wondrous  and 
ghostly  bein'g,  pouring  forth  your  pain-mad  melodies,  broken 
melodies,  ceaselessly  yearning  toward  the  verge  of  that  perfec- 
tion ...  ah !  and  you  would  have  me  leap  into  those  chill 
profundities,  out  of  the  world,  out  of  your  dear  remembrance, 
out  of  the  bright  sun's  warmth,  forever! 

Hear  me,  passionate  stricken  one !  Hear  me  this  once :  then 
if  you  will  forget  me;  if  you  can  remember  still. — For  I  have 
pondered  on  the  rune  of  dreams  and  therein  I  have  read : 

That  Beauty  is  always  in  the  search  and  in  the  seeker;  it  is 
a  wandering  and  not  a  goal ;  a  wave  and  not  the  sea ;  a  flame 
and  not  the  candle: 

It  is  that  soul  which  is  not  man,  nor  woman,  nor  child,  nor 
anything  at  all  save  one  long  shattered  cry  echoing  down  the 
galleries  of  stupendous  night! 


26  TheLittleRevieiv 

It  is  this  cry  that  I  now  send  to  you,  vahant  and  wayward 

.one,  my  sister: i 

This,  and  once  more,  this:    "Hail  and  farewell." 

IV 

The  Lover's  Lament 

Once  in  the  waning  of  an  autumn  day,  as  I  was  reading 
to  my  beloved  from  a  little  book  of  verse,  I  came  upon  the 
lines:  "They  are  not  long,  the  days  of  wine  and  roses:  out  of 
a  misty  dream.  .  .  ."  But  suddenly  a  flower-like  hand  cov- 
ered the  page  from  my  eyes  and  the  moment  of  sweet  gladness 
that  was  mine  vanished  like  the  saffron  tints  from  the  clouds 
beyond,  as  I  felt  her  arms  steal  about  my  body  and  saw  her 
mute  poppy  lips  craving  yet  another  kiss — vet  another  kiss. 

V 

Wanderers 

Dreaming  one  night  of  a  triumphant  journey  along  the 
Milky  Way,  traversing  the  Infinite  from  world  to  world  as 
though  on  flaming  cushions,  I  was  awakened  by  a  dull  shuffling 
noise  outside  my  door.  I  listened  for  a  moment:  "Ah,  it  is 
only  the  old  blind  woman  across  the  hall,  stumbling  in  the  dark- 
ness on  the  way  to  her  room." — And  I  went  to  sleep  again,  but 
my  dream  had  gone  forever.     .     .     . 

VI 
The  Accursed 

"Into  the  same  river  thou  mayst  not  step  twice!"  Oh  sage 
grim  one,  weaver  at  a  sable  loom,  Heraclitus, — arise  from  your 
ashes  and  I  will  show  you  a  woman  so  fair  that  looking  on  her 
you  will  love,  and  loving,  nevermore  plait  your  sombre  nets  of 
Change! — "Into  the  same  river  thou  mayst  not  step  twice!" — 
Not  even  if  the  river's  name  is  Love?  Answer  me,  spirit  of 
desperation,  ruthless  passer-by:  not  even  Love? — 'Silence,  only 
silence,  and  the  continual  hasting  of  waters  down  to  the  . 
sea.     ...  I 

\ 

4  J 


The  Little  Revie IV  27 


VII 

Ennui 

I  am  tired  of  dancing  and  song,  of  pictures  and  the  words 
that  men  ceaselessy  utter  without  need.  And  of  my  own  danc- 
ing and  song,  of  my  own  visions  and  unavaiHng  speech  I  am 
more  tired  still. — If  so  it  might  be,  I  would  like  to  have  a  room 
at  the  top  of  a  tower,  far  above  the  earth :  a  room  consecrated 
to  silence,  where  only  the  night  could  enter.  And  there  I  would 
sit  forever  by  the  window,  receiving  the  benedictions  of  the 
stars,  and  watching  in  the  moon's  pale  disc  the  reflections  in 
lovers'  eyes  as  they  drank  from  one  another  at  the  sorrowful 
fountains  of  illusion. 

VIII 
The  Rose- Jar 

Rose-jar,  soft  to  the  finger's  touch,  rose-jar  like  a  maiden's 
breast,  thou  chance  issue  from  the  womb  of  Beauty — what 
coarse-mouthed  potter  turned  thee  on  his  wheel,  shaping  thee 
from  the  inert  clay?  And  in  what  ancient  garden  bloomed  the 
flowers  now  so  dry  within  thy  comely  belly,  now  so  very  dry 
but  oh  so  fragrant  to  the  nostrils  of  the  poet? — Rose-jar,  soft 
to  the  finger's  touch,  rose- jar  like  a  maiden's  breast — and  even 
thou  some  day  will  lie  upon  the  earth  and  all  thy  loveliness  and 
all  thy  perfume  will  return  again  unto  the  clay  .  .  .  unto 
the  clay  beneath  swift  brutal  feet.     ... 

IX 
Vesperal 

Clear-eyed  evening,  and  thou,  dark  shadows,  children  of  the 
m.oon,  let  us  dance  together  a  little  while,  and  sing  to  one 
another  antique  melodies,  compounded  all  of  passion  and  youth 
and  glad  forgetfulness. — For  soon  the  morning  will  come  again 
out  of  the  fateful  East — the  morning  with  all  its  sullen 
duties.     .     .     . 


28  T  h  e  L  i  1 1 1  e  R  c  V  i  c  w 


Announcements  for  June 

The  June  issue  will  contain : 

Eight  new  poems  by  William  Butler  Yeats 

"An  Anachronism  at  Chinon"  by  Ezra  Pound 

The  second  iiistallment  of  "Imaginary  Letters"  by  Wyndhai 

Lewis 
The  second  part  of  T.  S.  Eliot's  "Eeklorp  and  Appleplex" 
James  Joyce  has  written  to  say  that  he  will  be  among  tb 

early  contributors. 
The  next  number  will  be  increased  to  at  least  44  pages. 

The  Little  Review  Book  Shop 

The  Little  Review  Bookshop  is  now  open. 

You  may  order  any  book  you  want  from  us  and  we  have  th 
facilities  for  delivering  or  mailing  it  to  you  at  whatever  tim 
yon  specify.  ^  i 

You  may  come  in  and  look  over  our  stock  and  take  yourt 
selections  with  you. 

Some  of  the  books  you  will  want  are  these: 

James  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man.    $1.5 

ISTexo's  Pelle  the  Conqueror.    Four  volumes,  $6.00 

Gilbert  Cannan's  Mendel.     $1.50 

Romain  Rolland's  Jeati  Christophe.     Three  volumes,  $5.00 

D.  H.  Lawrence's  Prussian    Officer   and    T^mlight    in    Ital^fl 
$1.50  each.  ! 

Ethel   vSidgwick's  Promise  and  Succession.     Each  $1.50 

Ezra  Pound's  Memoir  of  Gaudier-Br.zeska.     $3.50 

The  Imagist  Anthology,  1917.    75  cents 

yerharen's  Lo7>e  Poems,  translated  by  E.  S.  Flint.    $1.00 

The  Plays  of  Emile   J^erharen,   translated  by   Flint,   Arthu 
Symons,  etc.    $1.50 

Willard    Huntington    Wright's  Modern    Painting    and    The 
Creative  Will.     $2.50  and  $1.50 

Tagore's  Reminiscences  and  Personality.     Each  $1.50 


I 


( 


The  Little  R  ev  i  e  w  29 

The  complete  works  of  Anatole  France.     Per  volume,  $1.25 
The  Works  of  Henri  Fabre.     6  volumes.     Each  $1.50. 
The  Works  of  Mark  Twain.     25  volumes,  $25.00 
Creative  Intelligence,  by  John  Dewey  and  others.    $2.00 
Carl  Sandburg's  Chicago  Poems.     $1.25 
Joseph  Conrad's  The  Shadozv  Line.    $1.35 
Maurice  Hewlett's  Thorgils.     $1.35 
Andrevev's    The    Little    Angel,    The    Crushed    Floiver,  etc. 

$1.35  and  $1.50 
Kuprin's  A  Slave  Soul.     $1.50 
Tchekoff  The  Kiss,  The  Darling,  The  Duel,  The  Black  Monk. 

Each  $1.^5 
Gorky's  Confession  and  Tzvcnty-Six  Men  and  a  Girl.     $1.35 
Dostoevsky's  Tlie  Eternal  Husband.     $1.50 
Gogol's  Dead  Souls,  Taras  Bulba,  The  Mantle.    $1.40,  $1.35. 
Sologub's   The  Siveet-Scentcd  Name.     $1.50 
Artzibashef's  Saiiine,   The  Millionaire,   The  Breaking-Point. 

Each  $1.50 
The  Works  of  Freud  and  Jung. 

Max  Eastman's  Journalism  versus  Art,  Understanding  Ger- 
'   many.     $1.00  and  $1.25 
John    Cowper    Powy's    Confessions,    Suspended   Judgments. 

$1.50  and  $2.00 
Paul  Geraldy's  The  War,  Madame.     75  cents. 
Ani}^  Lowell's  Men,   IVomen  and  Ghosts.     $1.25 
H.  D.'s  Sea  Garden.    75  cents. 
D.  H.  Lawrence's  Amores.    $1.25 
W.  W.  Gibson's  Livelihood..  $1.25 
Tlie  Stories  of  A.  Neil  Lyons.    Each  $1.25 
Sherwood  Anderson's   Windy  McPherson's  Son.     $1.40 
J,  Mary  MacLanc.     $1.40 

NOTE. — We  have  some  interesting  discussion  for  the  Reader 
Critic  this  month,  but  owing  to  lack  of  space  it  will  have  to  be 
leld  over  until  the  next  issue. 


TPRP^ 


,    TEA^UUNCHES 

We  move  to  3  Sheridan  Square  Tuesday,  c^a^ 
the  fifteenth.  You  are  cordially  invited  to  have 
lunch,  tea,  or  dinner.  Open  from  twelve-thirty  to 
eight. 

Orders  Taken  for  Studio  1!^eas 
3  Sheridan  Square 


STATEMENT  OF  OWNERSHIP.  MANAGEMENT,    CIRCULATION,    ETC.,  RE- 
QUIRED BY  THE  ACT  OF  CONGRESS.  OF  AUGUST  24. 1912. 
Of  THE  LITTLE  REVIEW,  published  monthly  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,£or  April  1st, 1916. 
State  of  New  York,  Couniy  of  New  York— ss. 

Before  me,  a  Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  and  county  aforesaid,  personally 
appeared  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  who,  having  been  duly  sworn  according  to  law.  de- 
poses nnd  says  that  she  is  the  Publisher.  Editor,  Owner,  Bwsiness  Manager  of  THE 
LITTLE  REVIEW,  and  that  the  following  is,  to  the  best  of  her  knowledge  and  belief, 
a  true  statement  of  the  ownership,  management  (and  if  a  daily  paper,  the  circulation), 
etc.,  of  the  aforesaid  publication  for  the  date  shown  in  the  above  caption,  required  by 
the  Act  of  August  24,  1912,  embodied  in  section  443,  Postal  Laws  and  Regulations, 
printed  on  the  reverse  of  this  form;  to  wit: 

1.  That  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and 
business  managers  are: 

publisher,  Margaret  C.  Anderson, 31  VV. Fourteenth  St.,  New  York:  Editor,  Margaret 
C  Anderson,  31  W.  Fourteenth  St.,  New  York;  Managing  Editor,  Margaret  C.  Ander- 
son, 31  W.  Fourteenth  St.,  New  Vork;  Business  Manager,^,  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  81 
W.  Fourteenth  St.,  New  York. 

2.  That  the  owner  is,  Margaret  C.  Anderson. 

3.  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  security  holders  owning  or 
holding  1  per  cent,  or  more  of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or  other  securities 
are:  None. 

4.  That  the  two  paragraphs  next  above,  giving  the  names  of  owners,  stockholders, 
and  security  holders,  it  any,  contain  not  only  the  list  of  stockholders  and  seourity 
holders  as  they  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  but  also,  in  cases  where  the 
stockholder  or  security  holder  appears  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustee  or 
in  any  other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  the  person  or  corporation  for  whom  such 
trustee  is  acting,  is  given;  also  that  the  said  two  paragraphs  contain  statements  em- 
bracing affiant's  full  knowledge  and  belief  as  to  the  circumstances  and  conditions 
under  which  stockholders  and  security  holders  who  do  not  appear  upon  the  books  of 
the  company  at  trustees,  hold  slock  and  securities  in  a  capacity  other  than  that  of  a  < 
bona  fide  owner;  and  this  affiant  has  no  reason  to  believe  that  any  other  person,  asso- 
ciation, or  corporation,  has  any  interest  direct  or  indirect  in  the  said  stock,  bonds, 
or  other  securities  than  as  so  stated  by  her. 

MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON. 
Sworn  to  and  subscribed  before  me  this  9th  day  of  April,  1917. 

WALTER  HEARN,  Notary  Public. 
(My  commission  expires  March  30th,  1918.) 


ECALL  that  golden  day  when  you  first  read  "  Huck  Finn  ' 
'  How  your  mother  said,  "  For  goodness'  sake,  stop  laughing 
aloud  over  that  book.     You  sound  so  silly."     But  you  couldn't  stop  laughing. 

Today  when  you  read  "Huckleberry  Finn"  you  will  not  laugh  so  much.  You  will  chuckle 
often,  but  you  will  also  want  to  weep.  The  deep  humanity  of  it — the  pathos,  that  you 
never  saw,  as  a  boy,  will  appeal  to  you  now.  You  were  too  busy  laughing  to  notice  the 
limpid  purity  of  the  master's  style. 


When  Mark  Twain  first  wrote  "  Huckleberry  Finn  "  this  land  was  swept  with  a  gale 
of  laughter.     When  he  wrote  "  The  Innocents  Abroad  "  even  Europe  laughed  at  it  itself. 

But  one  day  there' appeared  a  new  book  from  his  pen,  so  spiritual,  so  true,  so  lofty  that 
those  who  did  not  know  him  well  were  amazed.  "  Joan  of  Arc  "  was  the  work  of  a  poet — 
a  historian — a  seer.  Mark  Twain  was  all  of  these.  His  was  not  the  light  laughter  of  a 
moment's  fun,  but  the  whimsical  humor  that  made  the  tragedy  of  life  more  bearable. 


A  Real  American 

Mark  Twain  was  a  steamboat  pilot. 
He  was  a  searcher  for  gold  in  the  far 
West.  He  was  a  printer.  He  worked 
bitterly  hard.  All  this  without  a  glim- 
mer of  the  great  destiny  that  lay  before 
him.  Then,  with  the  opening  of  the 
great  wide  West,  his  genius  bloomed. 

His  fame  spread  through  the  nation. 
It  flew  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  until 
his  work  was  translated  into  strange 
tongues.  From  then  on,  the  path  of 
fame  lay  straight  to  the  high  places. 
At  the  height  of  his  fame  he  lost  all 
his  money.  He  was  heavily  in  debt, 
but  though  60  years  old,  he  started 
afresh  and  paid  every  cent.  It  was  the 
last  heroic  touch  that  drew  him  close 
to  the  hearts  of  his  countrymen. 

The  world  has  asked  is  there  an  Ameri- 
can literature?  Mark  Twain  is  the  an- 
swer. He  is  the  heart,  the  spirit  of 
America.  From  his  poor  and  struggling 
boyhood  to  his  glorious,  splendid  old 
age,  he  remained  as  simple,  as  demo- 
cratic as  the  plainest  of  our  forefathers. 

He  was,  of  all  Americans,  the  most  Ameri- 
can. Free  in  soul,  and  dreaming  of  high 
things — brave  in  the  face  of  trouble — and  al- 
ways ready  to  laugh.    That  was  Mark  Twain. 

&  BROTHERS,  New  York 


The  Price  Goes  Up 

9C  Vni  ITM17Q  Novels— Stories  —  Humor 
CD   VULUlTinO   Essays— Travel  —  History 

This  is'Mark  Twain's  own  set.  This  is  the  set  he 
wanted  in  the  home  of  each  of  those  who  love  him. 
Because  he  asked  it.  Harpers  have  worked  to  make 
a  perfect  set  at  a  reduced  price. 

Before  the  war  we  had  a  contract  price  for  paper, 
so  we  could  sell  this  set'of  Mark  Twain  at  half  price. 

Send  the  Coupon  Without  Money 

The  last  of  the  edition  is  in  sight.  The  /  L.  R ,  ,5 
price  of  paper  has  gone  up.  There  can  yW&ilV^'vi  S. 
be  no  more  Mark  Twain  atthe  present  /^  MAnrtn  oc 
price.  There  never  again  will  be  /  BROTHERS 
any  more  Mark  Twain  at  the  pres-  /  ,*  ui-  a  »t  ^ 
ent  price.  Get  the  25  volumes  •  Franklin  Sq.,  JV.  Y. 
now,  while  you  can.  Every 
American  has  got  to  have  a  /  Send  me,  all  charges 
set  of  Mark  Twain  in  his  /  Prepaid,  a  set  of  Mark 
home.  Get  yours  now  /  Twain's  works  in  25 
and  save  money.  /  volumes,   illustrated,   bound 

Tour  rhlldren  want  /  '"  handsome  green  cloth, 
Mark  Twain.  Too  /  stamped  in  gold,  gold  tops  and 
want  bim.  Send  /  untrimmed  edges.  If  not  satisfac- 
tbisoonponto  /  *°T'  I  will  return  them  at  your  ex- 
day — now "   /  pense.   Otherwise  I  will  send  you  $1,00 

while  yon  /  within  5  days  and  |2.00  a  month  for  12 
ar*  look-  /  months,  thus  getting  the  benefit  of  your 
Ing  at        X    half-price  sale.  Little  Review 

It.  , 

Name . 


^Aidress . 


Special  Offer 


J 


AMES  JOYCE'S  A  Portrait  of  tJu  Artist  as  a    Young  Man 
and  a  year's  subscription  to  The  Little  Revieiv  for  $2.50. 

We  are  happy  to  announce  that  through  the  courtesy 
of  Mr.  Huebsch  we  are  able  to  make  the  following 
unusual  offer,  open  to  any  one  who  sends  in  a  subscrip- 
tion (or  a  renewal)  to  The  Little  Reviezv: 

Mr.  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  a-s  a  Young  Man, 
the  most  important  and  beautiful  piece  of  novel  writing 
to  be  found  in  English  today,  retails  for  $1.50.  The 
subscription  price  of  The  Little  Reviezv  is  $1.50.  We 
will  cut  the  latter  to  $1.00,  for  this  special  oflfer,  and 
you  may  have  the  book  and  the  subscription  for  $2.50. 
Or  you  may  have  Mr.  Joyce's  Duhliners  instead. 

This  is  an  offer  you  cannot  afford  to  miss.  Send 
your  order  at  once  to 

THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

31  West  14th  Street 

New  York  City. 


ft.  t 

Foreign  Subscriptions 

received  at  English  office  of 

The  Little  Review 

5  Holland  Place  Chambers 
Kensington,  London,  W.  8. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A    MAGAZINE    OF    THE   ARTS 

MAKING    NO    COMPROMISE    WITH    THE    PUBLIC    TASTE 


Margaret  C.  Anderson 
Publisher 


JUNE.  1917 

Chinese  Poems 

(translated  from  the  Chinese  of  Li  Po  by  Sas- 
aki and  Maxwell  Bodenheim) 
Push-Face  jh. 

Improvisation  Louis  Cilmore 

Poems:  Willinm  Buthr  Yeats 

The  Wild  Swans  at  Coole 

Presences 

Men  Improve  with  the  Years 

A  Deep-Sworn  Vow 

The  Ct>!!ai--Bon«  t)f  a  Hare 

Broken  Dreams 

In  Memory 
An  Anachronism  at  Chinon  Ezra  Pound 

Imaginary  Letters,  IL  Windham  Lewis 

The  Reader  Critic 


MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON.  Editor 

EZRA  POUND.  Foreign  Editor 
31  W««t  fourteenth  Street 

NEW  YORK  CITY 

15  Cerjti  a  copy  $1.50  a  Year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  Postoffice,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


Eugene  Hutchinson 


FINE  ARTS  BUILDING, 


CHICAGO,  ILI, 


The  Stradivarius  of  Pianos 


313  FIFTH  AVENUE 

NEW  YORK 


The  Little  Review 

VOL.  IV.  JUNE  1917  NO.  2 

Chinese  Poems 

Translated  from  the  Chinese  of  Li  Po  by 
Sasaki  and  Maxwell  Bodenheim 


Gently-Drunk  Woman 

A  breeze  knelt  upon  the  lotus-flowers 

And  their  odor  filled  a  water-palace. 

I  saw  a  king's  daughter 

Upon  the  roof-garden  of  the  water-palace. 

She  was  half-drunk  and  she  danced, 

Her  curling  body  killing  her  strength. 

She  grimaced  languidly. 

She  smiled  and  drooped  over  the  railing 

Around  the  white,  jewel-silenced  floor. 


Perfume — Remembrance 

When  you  stayed,  my  house  was  filled  with  flowers. 
When  you  left,  all  disappeared,  except  our  bed. 
I  wrapped  your  embroidered  clothes  about  me, 
And  could  not  sleep. 

The  perfume  of  your  clothes  has  stayed  three  years. 
It  will  always  be  with  me. 
But  you  will  never  come  back. 
While  I  think  of  you  yellow  leaves  outside 
Are  dropping,  and  white  dew-drops  moisten  the  moss 
beneath  them. 


Copyright,   1917,  by  Margaret  C.  Anderson. 


The    Little    R  ev  i  e 


w 


Drunk 

When  we  fill  each  other's  cups  with  wine, 

Many  mountain  flowers  bloom. 

One  drink  ;  another ;  and  another — 

I  am  drunk ;  I  want  to  sleep, 

So  you  had  better  go. 

Come  tomorrow  morning,  hugging  your  harp, 

For  then,  I  shall  have  something  to  tell  you. 


Mountain-Top  Temple 

Night,  and  rest  in  the  mountain-top  temple. 
I  lift  my  hands,  and  knock  at  the  stars. 
I  dare  not  talk  loudly. 
For  I  fear  to  surprise  the  people  in  the  sky. 


Push-Face 


I 

TT  is  a  great  thing  to  be  living  when  an  age  passes.  If  you  are 
*  born  in  an  age  in  which  every  impact  of  its  expression  is  a 
pain,  there  is  a  beautiful  poetic  vengeance  in  being  pennitted  to 
watch  that  age  destroy  itself. 

What  other  age  could  have  so  ofifended  ?  Instead  of  pursuing 
the  real  business  of  life,  which  is  to  live,  men  have  turned  all 
their  denials  and  repressions  into  the  accumulation  of  unessential 
knowledge  and  the  making  of  indiscriminate  things.  Other  ages 
have  taken  out  their  repressions  in  religious  frenzies,  but  this  age 
has  taken  everything  out  in  motion.  It  is  an  elementary  fact  of 
sex  knowledge  that  rythmic  motion  is  part  of  sex  expression. 
Isn't  it  ironical  and  inmioral  that  those  nations  which  have  prided 
themselves  most  on  their  virtue,  and  have  hugged  tightest  to 
themselves  the  puritanic  ideal,  are  the  ones  that  have  gone  mad- 
dest over  motion  ?  America,  being  the  most  virtuous,  obviously 
has  the  least  sense  of  humor  and  has  exceeded  herself.    From  the 


The    Little    Review 


cradle  to  the  turbine  engine,  from  the  rocking-chair  to  the  spin- 
nings and  whidings  of  a  Coney  Island,  she  has  become  a  national 
mechanical  perpetual  whirling  Dervish. 

The  wheels  became  rollers  which  have  rolled  life  out  thin  and 
flat. 

Then  Art  cried  out  with  all  her  voices.  In  the  last  few  years 
we  have  had  a  return  to  the  beginnings  of  all  the  Arts.  If  there 
ever  comes  a  time  in  the  world  when  men  will  give  their  attention 
to  the  life  of  Art  and  understand  its  movement,  they  will  find 
it  alert  and  inevitable.  Life  would  follow  it  trustingly  if  it  were 
not  for  the  intrusions  and  hindrances  of  men.  The  Thing  had 
happened:  Life  had  made  its  protest  through  Art.  But  this  con- 
sciousness never  reached  the  unendowed  mind.  It  (the  unen- 
dowed mind)   forced  Life  to  avenge  itself  by  flying  into  war. 

II 

"I  pray  God,"  said  President  Wilson,  "that  the  out- 
come of  this  struggle  may  be  that  every  element  of  dif- 
ference amongst  us  will  be  obliterated — The  spirit  of 
this  people  is  already  united,  and  when  suffering  and 
sacrifice  have  completed  this  union,  men  will  no  longer 
speak  of  any  lines  either  of  race  or  association  cutting 
athwart  the  great  body  of  this  nation." 

D  UT  the  Anarchists,  who  are  never  agreeable  or  content  in  any 
'-'  country,  no  matter  how  perfect,  arranged  a  non-conscription 
meeting  in  a  hall  in  Bronx  Park  the  night  before  registration. 
So  "united  was  the  spirit  of  this  people"  that  no  one  attended  this 
non-conscription  meeting  except  the  5,000  who  crowded  the  hall 
and  the  50,000  who  stood  outside  in  the  streets  for  several  hours. 
There  were  squads  of  the  usual  police  and  dozens  of  rough 
raw  fellows  in  soldiers'  uniforms  to  hold  back  the  crowd  and 
keep  it  in  order, — a  crowd  that  scarcely  moved  and  seldom  spoke 
except  in  low  tones  or  in  foreign  languages ;  a  crowd  too  full 
for  speech,  because  of  this  last  numbing  disappointment  in  Ameri- 
ca. The  only  demonstration  it  made  was  to  applaud  when  an 
echo  of  the  applause  inside  the  hall  reached  it.  Any  attempt  to 
get  nearer  the  hall  was  met  with  clubs  and  the  fists  of  soldiers  in 
your  face.  Nasty  little  Fords  with  powerful  search-lights  raced 
up  and  down  and  about  the  hollow  square.  A  huge  auto  truck 
hung  with  red  lights  acted  as  a  mower  at  the  edges.  Word  went 
about  that  it  was  mounted  with  a  machine  gun. 


T  li  e    Little    R  e  v  i  e  zv 


As  I  was  pushed  about  in  the  crowd  I  overheard  always  the 
same  conversations: 

"Is  she  there"? 

"Over  there  where  the  Hght  is"? 

"Yes,  on  the  second  floor." 

"Are  there  any  people  inside"? 
'  "Oh  it's  full  since  seven  o'clock." 

"Oh!?" 

"W^ill  thev  let  her  speak  ?" 

"Who  ?  Her"  ? 

Silence. 

"Will  they  get  her,  do  you  think"? 

"Will  the  police  take  her"? 

A  thin  pale  Russian  Jew,  standing  on  a  rock  looking  over  the 
heads  of  the  crowd,  was  spoken  to  by  a  stranger.  "They'll  get 
her  tonight  all  right."  The  Russian  looked  over  to  the  lighted 
windows  of  the  hall  and  said  in  revolutionary  voice :  "She's  a  fine 
woman,  Emma  Goldman." 

Suddenly  in  the  densest  part  of  the  crowd  a  woman's  voice 
rang  out:  "Down  with  conscription!  Down  with  the  war!' 
Several  other  women  took  it  up  The  police  charged  into  the 
crowd.  The  crowd  made  a  slight  stand.  The  soldiers  joined  the 
police,  and  with  raised  clubs,  teeth  bared  and  snarling,  they 
drove  the  crowd  backward  over  itself,  beating  and  pushing. 
Three  times  the  crowd  stood.  Three  times  they  were  charged. 
Women  were  beaten  down  and  run  over.  Men  were  clubbed 
in  the  face  and  escaped,  staggering  and  bleeding. 

How  much  of  this  treatment  will  it  take  to  obliterate  every 
element  of  individuality  amongst  us? 


HI 

IN  the  same  week  the  plutocrats  and  artists  held  an  Alley  Festa 
*   for  the  Red  Cross.    At  a  cost  of  $10,000  they  turned  the  stables 
of  MacDougal  Alley  into  a  replica  of  an  Italian  street,  draped 
it  with  much  color,  daubed  it  with  much  paint,  hung  it  with  many  ■ 
lights.     I  hope  there  were  pluts  there;  the  artists  we  saw  were   ' 
not  artists.     You  can  easily  pick  out  the  pluts :  they  look  like  ] 
figures  from  the  wax-works ;  but  the  "artists"  looked  like  Green-   , 
wich  Village.     It  was  a  bastard  performance,  a  bastard  street,  \ 


The    Little    Review 


a  bastard  hilarity,  bastard  plutocrats  and  bastard  artists,  with 
bastard  soldiers  guarding  the  scene. 

Between  the  acts  they  all  congregated  in  the  Brevoort  to  have 
drinks.  The  pluts  foregathered, — women  in  up-town  clothes, 
looking  like  Mrs.  Potter  Palmer,  with  grey  marcelled  hair  and 
broad  stiff  black  hats,  holding  the  hands  and  looking  neuroti- 
cally into  the  eyes  of  young  men  who  resembled  bank  clerks. 
Groups  of  artists  came  in,  costumed  like  people  fleeing  from  a 
fire.  I  believe  they  thought  they  were  Neopolitans  or  something. 
They  all  settled  clamourously  at  one  table  and  fell  amourously 
upon  each  other's  necks.  There  was  nothing  personal,  nothing 
unique,  nothing  imaginative  about  any  of  their  costumes.  One 
woman  sat  in  the  embrazure  of  a  man's  arm,  sharing  his  chair 
with  him.  She  had  short  hempy  hair,  she  was  dressed  in  street- 
gam.in  clothes,  she  was  at  least  forty,  and  her  cheek  bones  were 
0%  a  line  with  her  nostrils.  No  human  head  should  be  made 
that  way;  it's  intolerable  except  in  fish,  frogs,  or  snakes. 

The  greatest  American  dancer  came  in,  followed  by  a  little 
girl  and  a  train  of  men — hummel-zug  dritte  classe.  She  had 
draped  about  her  a  green  plush  toga,  thrown  over  her  shoulder 
in  a  fat  knot — not  apple  green,  nor  emerald  green,  nor  sap  green, 
I  but  a  green  and  texture  sacred  to  railroads.  The  only  other 
perfect  example  I  have  seen  of  that  color  and  texture  was  on  the 
great  chairs  in  the  station  at  Mons.  She  was  too-young-looking — 
a  type  much  admired  in  my  childhood  when  China  dolls  lived, 
with  painted  China  hair  undulating  above  pink  and  white  China 
faces.  When  she  looked  up  in  conversation  her  profile  made 
almost  a  flat  line,  the  chin  retiring  into  the  neck  as  if  it  had  no 
opinions  on  the  subject,  the  eyes  rolling  up  but  no  expression  of 
the  face  moving  up  with  them.  Oh  beautiful  people,  oh  beauti- 
ful fete! 

The  music  and  lights  drew  the  children  out  of  the  slums  back 
of  Washington  Square :  fathers  holding  babies  in  their  arms,  and 
strings  of  little  children  trimming  the  edges  of  the  sidewalks  at  a 
respectful  distance  around  the  back  entrance,  were  pushed  in 
the  face  and  told  to  get  out,  to  move  on,  by  policemen  and  some 
more  rough  fellows  in  khaki — because ....  this  was  a  fete  for  hu- 
manity. And  it's  all  right,  this  game  of  push-face:  every  one 
plays  it.  When  you're  little  children  you  play  it  and  call  it  push- 
face  ;  nations  call  it  government ;  the  "people"  are  playing  it  now 
in  Russia  and  call  it  revolution. 


The    Little    Review 


Improvisation 

Louis  Gilmore 

Your  hands  are  perfumes 

That  haunt  the  yellow  hangings 

Of  a  room. 

Your  hands  are  melodies 
That  rise  and  fall 
In  silver  basins. 

Your  hands  are  silks 

That  soothe  the  purple  eyelids 

Of  the  sick. 

Your  hands  are  ghosts 

That  trouble  the  blue  shadows 

Of  a  garden. 

Your  hands  are  poppies 

For  which  my  lips  are  hungry 

And  athirst. 


The    Little    Review 


Poems 

William  Butler  Yeats 
The  Wild  Swans  at  Coole 

The  trees  are  in  their  autumn  beauty 

The  woodland  paths  are  dry 

Under  the  October  twihght  the  water 

Mirrors  a  still  sky 

Upon  the  brimming  water  among  the  stones 

Are  nine  and  fifty  swans. 

The  nineteenth  autumn  has  come  upon  me 

Since  I  first  made  my  count. 

I  saw,  before  I  had  well  finished, 

All  suddenly  mount 

And  scatter  wheeling  in  great  broken  rings 

Upon  their  clamorous  wings. 

But  now  they  drift  on  the  still  water 

Mysterious,  beautiful ; 

Among  what  rushes  will  they  build; 

By  what  lake's  edge  or  pool 

Delight  men's  eyes  when  I  awake  some  day 

To  find  they  have  flown  away? 

I  have  looked  upon  these  brilliant  creatures 

And  now  my  heart  is  sore. 

All's  changed  since  I,  hearing  at  twilight 

The  first  time  on  this  shore 

The  bell-beat  of  their  wings  above  my  head, 

Trod  with  a  lighter  tread. 

Unwearied  still,  lover  by  lover, 

They  paddle  in  the  cold 

Companionable  streams  or  climb  the  air ; 

Their  hearts  have  not  grown  old, 

Passion  or  conquest,  wander  where  they  will. 

Attend  upon  them  still. 

October,  1916. 


10  T  h  c    L  i  t  1 1  c    K  c  v  i  e  w 


rresences 

This  night  has  been  so  strange  that  it  seemed 

As  if  the  hair  stood  up  on  my  liead. 

From  going  down  of  the  sun  I  have  dreamed 

That  women  laughing,  or  timid  or  wild, 

In  rustle  of  lace  or  silken  stuff, 

Climbed  up  my  creaking  stair.     They  had  read 

All  I  have  rhymed  of  that  monstrous  thing 

Returned  and  yet  unrequited  love. 

They  stood  in  the  door  and  stood  between 

j\Iy  great  wood  lecturn  and  the  fire 

Till  I  could  hear  their  hearts  beating: 

One  is  a  harlot,  and  one  a  child 

That  never  looked  upon  man  with  desire, 

And  one,  it  may  be,  a  queen. 

November,  191 5. 


Men  Improve  With  the  Years 

I  am  worn  out  with  dreams ; 

A  weather-worn,  marble  triton 

Among  the  streams : 

And  all  day  long  I  look 

Upon  this  lady's  beauty 

As  though  I  had  found  in  book 

A  pictured  beauty ; 

Pleased  to  have  filled  the  eyes 

Or  the  discerning  ears, 

Delighted  to  be  but  wise : 

For  men  improve  with  the  years. 

And  yet  and  yet 

Is  this  my  dream  or  the  truth? 

O  would  that  we  had  met 

When  I  had  my  burning  youth ; 

But  I  grow  old  among  dreams, 

A  weather-worn,  marble  triton 

Among  the  streams. 

July  ig,  1916. 


TheLittleRevieiv  11 


A  Deep  Sworn  Vow 

Others,  because  you  did  not  keep 

That  deep  sworn  vow,  have  been  friends  of  mine, 

Yet  always  when  I  look  death  in  the  face, 

When  I  clamber  to  the  heights  of  sleep, 

Or  when  I  grow  excited  with  wine. 

Suddenly  I  meet  your  face. 

October  17,  1915. 


The  Collar-Bone  of  a  Hare 

Would  I  could  cast  a  sail  on  the  water, 

Where  many  a  king  has  gone 

And  many  a  king's  daughter, 

And  alight  at  the  com.ely  trees  and  the  lawn, 

The  playing  upon  pipes  and  the  dancing. 

And  learn  that  the  best  thing  is 

To  change  my  loves  while  dancing 

And  pay  but  a  kiss  for  a  kiss. 

I  would  find  by  the  edge  of  that  water 

The  collar-bone  of  a  hare 

Worn  thin  by  the  lapping  of  water  ; 

And  pierce  it  through  with  a  gimlet  and  stare 

At  the  old  bitter  world  where  they  marry  in  churches, 

And  laugh,  over  the  untroubled  water. 

At  all  who  marry  in  churches, 

Through  the  white  thin  bone  of  a  hare. 

July  5,  191 5. 


Broken  Dreams 

There  is  grey  in  your  hair. 

Young  men  no  longer  suddenly  catch  their  breath 

When  you  are  passing ; 

But  mabye  some  old  gafifer  mutters  a  blessing 

Because  it  was  your  prayer 


12  The    Little    Revie  IV 


Recovered  him  upon  tlie  bed  of  death, 

But  for  your  sake — that  all  heart's  ache  have  known, 

And  given  to  others  all  heart's  ache, 

From  meagre  girlhoods  putting  on 

Burdensome  beauty — but  for  your  sake 

Heaven  has  put  away  the  stroke  of  her  doom, 

So  great  her  portion  in  that  peace  you  make 

By  merely  walking  in  a  room. 

Your  beauty  can  but  leave  among  us 

Vague  memories,  nothing  but  memories. 

A  young  man  when  the  old  men  are  done  talking 

Will  say  to  an  old  man  "tell  me  of  that  lady 

The  poet  stubborn  with  his  passion  sang  us 

When  age  might  well  have  chilled  his  blood." 

Vague  memories,  nothing  but  memories, 

But  in  the  grave  all  all  shall  be  renewed. 

The  certainty  that  I  shall  see  that  lady 

Leaning  or  standing  or  walking. 

In  the  hrst  loveliness  of  womanhood 

And  with  the  fervour  of  my  youthful  eyes, 

Has  set  me  muttering  like  a  fool. 

You  were  more  beautiful  than  any  one 

And  yet  your  body  had  a  flaw : 

Your  small  hands  were  not  beautiful. 

I  am  afraid  that  you  will  run 

And  paddle  to  the  wrist 

In  that  mysterious,  always  brimming  lake 

Where  those  that  have  obeyed  the  holy  law 

Paddle  and  are  perfect :  leave  unchanged 

The  hands  that  I  have  kissed 

For  old  sake's  sake. 

The  last  stroke  of  midnight  dies 

All  day  in  the  one  chair 

From  dream  to  dream  and  rhyme  to  rhyme  I  have  ranged 

In  rambling  talk  with  an  image  of  air : 

Vague  memories,  nothing  but  memories. 

November,  191 5. 


TheLittleReview  13 

In  Memory 

Five  and  twenty  years  have  gone 

Since  old  William  Pollexfen 

Laid  his  strong  bones  in  death 

By  his  wife  Elizabeth 

In  the  grey  stone  tomb  he  made ; 

And  after  twenty  years  they  laid 

In  that  tomb,  by  him  and  her, 

His  son  George  the  astrologer 

And  masons  drove  from  miles  away 

To  scatter  the  acacia  spray 

Upon  a  melancholy  man 

Who  had  ended  where  his  breath  began. 

Many  a  son  and  daughter  lies 

Far  from  the  customary  skies. 

The  Mall,  and  Fades  Grammar  School, 

In  London  or  in  Liverpool, 

But  where  is  laid  the  sailor  John 

That  so  many  lands  had  known, 

Quiet  lands  or  unquiet  seas 

Where  the  Indians  trade  or  Japanese; 

He  never  found  his  rest  ashore 

Moping  for  one  voyage  more : 

Where  have  they  laid  the  sailor  John? 

And  yesterday  the  youngest  son, 
A  humorous  unambitious  man, 
Was  buried  near  the  astrologer; 
And  are  we  now  in  the  tenth  year? 
Since  he  who  had  been  contented  long, 
A  nobody  in  a  great  throng, 
Decided  he  would  journey  home, 
Now  that  his  fiftieth  year  had  come, 
And  "Mr.  Alfred"  be  again 
Upon  the  lips  of  common  men 
Who  carried  in  their  memory 
His  childhood  and  his  family. 

At  all  these  deathbeds  women  heard 
A  visionary  white  sea  bird 
Lamenting  that  a  man  should  die, 
And  with  that  cry  I  have  raised  my  cry. 


14  T  h  e    Li  1 1 1  e    R  e  V  i  ew 

An  Anachronism  at  Chinon 
Ezra  Pound 

D  EHIND  them  rose  the  hill  with  its  grey  octagon^  castle,  to 
*^  the  west  a  street  zvith  good  houses,  gardens  occasionally  en- 
closed and  well  to  do,  before  them  the  slightly  crooked  lane,  old 
worm-eaten  fronts  low  and  uneven,  booths  with  their  glass  front- 
frames  open,  slid  aside  or  hung  back,  the  flaccid  bottle-green  of 
the  panes  reflecting  odd  lights  from  the  provender  and  cheap 
crockery;  a  few  peasant  ivomen  with  baskets  of  eggs  and  of 
fowls,  while  just  before  them  an  old  peasant  with  one  hen  in  his 
basket  alternately  stroked  its  head  and  then  smacked  it  to  make  it 
go  dozvn  under  the  strings. 

The  couple  leaned  upon  one  of  the  tin  tables  in  the  moderately 
clear  space  by  the  inn,  the  elder,  grey,  with  thick  hair,  square  of 
forehead,  square  bearded,  yet  with  a  face  showing  curiously  long 
and  oval  in  spite  of  this  quadrature ;  in  tlie  eyes  a  sort  of  friendly, 
companionable  melancholy,  now  intent,  now  with  a  certain  blank- 
ness,  like  that  of  a  child  cruelly  interrupted,  or  of  an  old  man, 
surprised  and  self-conscious  in  some  act  too  young  for  his  years, 
the  head  from  the  neck  to  the  crown  in  almost  brutal  contrast 
zvith  the  girth  and  great  belly:  the  head  of  Don  Quixote,  and  the 
corpus  of  Sancho  Panza,  animality  mounting  into  the  lines  of 
the  throat  and  lending  energy  to  the  intellect. 

His  companion  obznously  an  American  student. 

Student :    I  came  here  in  hopes  of  this  meeting  yet,  since  you  are 

here  at  all,  you  must  have  changed  many  opinions. 

The  Elder:    Some.    Which  do  you  mean? 

Student:    Since  you  are  here,  personal  and  persisting? 

Rabelais:     All  that  I  believed  or  believe  you  will  find  in  De 

Senectute:    "...  .that  being  so  active,  so  swift  in  thought;  that 

treasures  up  in  memory  such  multitudes  and  varieties  of  things 

past,  and  comes  likewise  upon  new  things   ....   can  be  of  no 

mortal  nature." 

Student :     And  yet  I  do  not  quite  understand.     Your  outline  is 

not  always  distinct.    Your  voice  however  is  deep,  clear  and  not 

squeaky. 

Rabelais:     I  was  more  interested  in  words  than  in  my  exterior. 

aspect,  I  am  therefore  vocal  rather  than  spatial. 


T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    R  eview  15 


Student:  I  came  here  in  hopes  of  this  meeting,  yet  I  confess  I 
can  scarcely  read  you.  I  admire  and  close  the  book,  as  not  in- 
frequently happens  with  "classics." 

Rabelais :    I  am  the  last  person  to  censure  you,  and  your  admira- 
tion is  perhaps  due  to  a  fault  in  your  taste.    I  should  have  paid 
more  heed  to  DeBellay,  young  Joachim. 
Student :    You  do  not  find  him  a  prig  ? 

Rabelais :  I  find  no  man  a  prig  who  takes  serious  thought  for 
the  language. 

Student :  And  your  own  ?  Even  Voltaire  called  it  an  amassment 
of  ordure. 

Rabelais :    And  later  changed  his  opinion. 

Stude'nt :    Others  have  blamed  your  age,  saying  you  had  to  half- 
bury  your  wisdom  in  filth  to  make  it  acceptable. 
Rabelais :    And  you  would  put  this  blame  on  my  age  ?    And  take 
the  full  blame  for  your  writing? 
Student:    My  writing? 

Rabelais :  Yes,  a  quatrain,  without  which  I  should  scarcely  have 
come  here. 

Sweet  C.  . .  .  in  h.  .  .  spew  up  some.  . .  . 
(pardon  me  for  intruding  my  own  name  at  this  point,  but  even 
Dante  has  done  the  like,  with  a  remark  that  he  found  it  unfitting) 
— to  proceed  then  : 

some  Rabelais 

To and and  to  define  today 

In  fitting  fashion,  and  her  monument 
Heap  up  to  her  in  fadeless  ex 

Student :    My  license  in  those  lines  is  exceptional. 

Rabelais:     And  you  have  written  on  journalists,  or  rather  an 

imaginary  plaint  of  the  journahsts:     Where  s ,  s.  . .  .  and 

p on  jews  conspire,  and  editorial  maggots   ....  about,  we 

gather  ....  smeared  bread,  or  drive  a  snout  still  deeper  in  the 
swim-brown  of  the  mire. 

Where  s ,  s and  p on  jews  conspire, 

And  editorial  maggots  ....  about, 

We  gather  ....  -smeared  bread,  or  drive  a  snout 

Still  deeper  in  the  swim-brown  of  the  mire. 

O  ....  O Ob b b.... 

O  c.  .  .   ,     O O   's  attire 

Smeared  with 


16  T  li  e    L  i  1 1 1  e    K  e  V  i  e  zv 


Really  I  can  not  continue,  no  printer  would  pass  it. 

Student :    Quite  out  of  my  usual 

Rabelais:     There  is  still  another  on  publishers,  or  rather  on    la 
vie  litteraire,  a  sestina  almost  wholly  in  asterisks,  and  a  short 
strophe  on  the  American  president. 
Student:    Can  you  blame  .  .  . 

Rabelais:     I  am  scarcely eh 

Student:  Beside,  these  are  but  a  few  scattered  outbursts,  you 
kept  up  your  flow  through  whole  volumes. 

Rabelais:  You  have  spent  six  years  in  your  college  and  univer- 
sity, and  a  few  more  in  struggles  with  editors ;  I  had  had  thirty 
years  in  that  sink  of  a  cloister,  is  it  likely  that  your  disgusts 
would  need  such  voluminous  purging?  Consider,  when  I  was 
nine  years  of  age  they  put  me  in  that  louse-breeding  abomination. 
I  was  forty  before  I  broke  loose. 
Student:    Why  at  that  particular  moment? 

Rabelais:     They  had  taken  away  my  books.     Brother  Amy  got 
hold  of  a  Virgil.     We  opened  it,  sortes,  the  first  line: 
Hen,  fnge  crudeles  terras,  fuge  litus  avarum 
We  read  that  line  and  departed.     You  may  thank  God  your 
age  is  different.     You  may  thank  God  your  life  has  been  differ- 
ent.    Thirty  years  mewed  up  with  monks !     After  that  can  you 
blame  me  my  style  ?    Have  oyu  any  accurate  gauge  of  stupidities  ? 
Student:     I  have,  as  you  admit,  passed  some  years  in  my  uni- 
versity.    I  have  seen  some  opposition  to  learning. 
Rabelais:     No  one  in  your  day  has  sworn  to  annihilate  the  cult 
of  greek  letters ;  they  have  not  separated  you  from  your  books ; 
they  have  not  rung  bells  expressly  to  keep  you  from  reading. 
Student :    Bells !  later.    There  is  a  pasty-faced  vicar  in  Kensing- 
ton who  had  his  dam'd  bells  rung  over  my  head  for  four  consecu- 
tive winters,  L'lle  Sonnante  transferred  to  the  middle  of  Lon- 
don !     They  have  tried  to  smother  the  good  ones  with  bad  ones. 
Books  I  mean,  God  knows  the  chime  was  a  musicless  abomina- 
oion.     They  have  smothered  good  books  with  bad  ones. 
Rabelais:    This  will  never  fool  a  true  poet;  for  the  rest,  it  does 
not  matter  whether  they  drone  masses  or  lectures.    They  observe 
their  fasts  with  the  intellect.     Have  they  actually  sequestered 
your  books? 

Student:  No.  But  I  have  a  friend,  of  your  order,  a  monk. 
They  took  away  his  book  for  two  years.  I  admit  they  set  him 
to  hearing  confessions;  to  going  about  in  the  world.     It  may 


TheLittleReview  17 


have  broadened  his  outlook,  or  benefited  his  eyesight.  I  do  not 
think  it  wholly  irrational,  though  it  must  have  been  extremely 
annoying. 

Rabelais :    Where  was  it  ? 
Student:    In  Spain. 

Rabelais:     You  are  driven  south  of  the  Pyrenees  to  find  your 
confuting  example.    Would  you  find  the  like  in  this  country? 
Student :     I  doubt  it.     The  Orders  are  banished. 
Rabelais:    Or  in  your  own? 
Student :     Never. 

Rabelais :    And  you  were  enraged  with  your  university  ? 
Student:    I  thought  some  of  the  customs  quite  stupid. 
Rabelais:     Can  you  conceive  a  life  so  infernally  and  abysmally 
stupid  that  the  air  of  an  university  was  wine  and  excitement 
beside  it? 

Student :  You  speak  of  a  time  when  scholarship  was  new,  when 
humanism  had  not  given  way  to  philology.  We  have  no  one  like 
Henry  Stephen,  no  one  comparable  to  Helia  Andrea.  The  role 
of  your  monastery  is  now  assumed  by  the  "institutions  of  learn- 
ing," the  spirit  of  your  class-room  is  found  among  a  few  scat- 
tered enthusiasts,  men  half  ignorant  in  the  present  "scholarly" 
sense,  but  alive  with  the  spirit  of  learning,  avid  of  truth,  avid 
of  beauty,  avid  of  strange  and  out  of  the  way  bits  of  knowledge. 
Do  you  like  this  scrap  of  Pratinas  ? 
Rabelais  (reads) 

'K[ioq  i\xoq  h  Bpopito*;  E[jlI  SsI  xsXaBelv 
E[it  Bet  xaxayetv  'Av  opea  saaaEJisvoy 
Mexa  NatStov  Ola  ts  xuxvov  ayovxa 
ITotxtXoxTepov  \xi\oq   Tav  aotSav... 

Student :    The  movement  is  interesting.     I  am  "educated,"  I  am 

considerably  more  than  a  "graduate."     I  confess  that  I  can  not 

translate  it. 

Rabelais:    What  in  God's  name  hav-e  they  taught  you?!! 

Student:     I  hope  they  have  taught  me  nothing.     I  managed  to 

read  many  books  despite  their  attempts  at  suppression,  or  rather 

perversion. 

Rabelais :    I  think  you  speak  in  a  passion ;  that  you  magnify  petty 

annoyances.     Since  then,  you  have  been  in  the  world  for  some 

years,  you  have  been  able  to  move  at  your  freedom. 

Student :     I  speak  in  no  passion  when  I  say  that  the  whole  aim, 

or  at  least  the  drive,  of  modern  philology  is  to  make  a  man 


18  The    Little    Review 

stupid ;  to  turn  his  mind  from  the  fire  of  genius  and  smother  him 
with  things  unessential.  Germany  has  so  stultified  her  savants 
that  they  have  had  no  present  perception,  the  men  who  should 
have  perceived  were  all  imbedded  in  "scholarship."  And  as  for 
freedom,  no  man  is  free  who  has  not  the  modicum  of  an  income. 

If  I  had  but  fifty  francs  weekly 

Rabelais:    Weekly?  C J...  .    ! 

Student :    You  forget  that  the  value  of  money  has  very  consider- 
ably altered. 
Rabelais:     Admitted. 
Sttident :     Well  ? 

Rabelais:  Well,  who  has  constrained  you?  The  press  in  your 
day  is  free. 

Student:    C J. . . .    ! 

Rabelais:     But  the  press  in  your  day  is  free. 

Student :     There  is  not  a  book  goes  to  the  press  in  my  country, 

or  in  England,  but  a  society  of in  one,  or  in  the  other  a 

pie-headed  ignorant  printer  paws  over  it  to  decide  how  much  is 
indecent. 

Rabelais:  But  they  print  my  works  in  translation. 
Student:  Your  work  is  a  classic.  They  also  print  Trimalcio's 
Supper,  and  the  tales  of  Suetonius,  and  red-headed  virgins  an- 
notate the  writings  of  Martial,  but  let  a  novelist  mention  a  privvy, 
or  a  poet  the  rear  side  of  a  woman,  and  the  whole  town  reeks 
with  an  uproar.  In  England  a  scientific  work  was  recently  cen- 
sored. A  great  discovery  was  kept  secret  three  years.  For  the 
rest,  I  do  not  speak  of  obscenity.  Obscene  books  are  sold  in  the 
rubber  shops,  they  are  doled  out  with  quack  medicines,  societies 
for  the  Suppression  of  Vice  go  into  all  details,  and  thereby 
attain  circulation.  Masterpieces  are  decked  out  with  lewd  covers 
to  entoil  one  part  of  the  public,  but  let  an  unknown  man  write 
clear  and  clean  realism ;  let  a  poet  use  the  speech  of  his  prede- 
cessors, either  being  as  antiseptic  as  the  instruments  of  a  surgeon, 
and  out  of  the  most  debased  and  ignorant  classes  they  choose 
him  his  sieve  and  his  censor. 
Rabelais:  But  surely  these  things  are  avoidable? 
Student:  The  popular  novelist,  the  teaser  and  tickler,  casts 
what  they  call  a  veil,  or  caul,  over  his  language.  He  pimps  with 
suggestion.  The  printer  sees  only  one  word  at  a  time,  and  tons 
of  such  books  are  passed  yearly,  the  members  of  the  Royal 
Automobile  Club  and  of  the  Isthmian  and  Fly  Fishers  are  not 
concerned  with  the  question  of  morals. 


T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    R  eview  19 


Rabelaiss    You  mistake  me,  I  did  not  mean  this  sort  of  evasion, 
I  did  not  mean  that  a  man  should  ruin  his  writing  or  join  the 
ranks  of  procurers. 
Student :    Well  ? 

Rabelais:  Other  means.  There  is  what  is  called  private  printing. 
Student:  I  have  had  a  printer  refuse  to  print  lines  "in  any 
form"  private  or  public,  perfectly  innocent  lines,  lines  refused 
thus  in  London,  which  appeared  and  caused  no  blush  in  Chicago; 
and  vice-versa,  lines  refused  in  Chicago  and  printed  by  a  fat- 
headed  prude — Oh,  most  fat-headed — in  London,  a  man  who 
will  have  no  ruffling  of  anyone's  skirts,  and  who  will  not  let 
you  say  that  some  children  do  not  enjoy  the  proximity  of  their 
parents. 

Rabelais:    At  least  you  are  free  from  theology. 
Student:     If  you  pinch  the  old  whore  by  the  toes  you  will  find 
a  press  clique  against  you ;  you  will  come  up  against  "boycott" ; 
people  will  rush  into  your  publisher's  office  with  threats.     Have 

i^/ou  ever  heard  of  "the  libraries?" 

mRabelais :    I  have  heard  the  name,  but  not  associated  with  strange 

rforms  of  blackmail. 

Student:     I  admit  they  do  not  affect  serious  writers. 
Rabelais:    But  you  think  your  age  as  stupid  as  mine. 
Student:     Humanity  is  a  herd,  eaten  by  perpetual  follies.     A 
few  in  each  age  escape,  the  rest  remain  savages,  "That  deyed  the 
Arbia  crimson."    Were  the  shores  of  Gallipoli  paler,  that  showed 
red  to  the  airmen  flying  thousands  of  feet  above  them  ? 
Rabelais :     Airmen.     Intercommunication  is  civilization.     Your 
Hfe  is  full  of  convenience. 

Student :  And  men  as  stupid  as  ever.  We  have  no  one  like 
Henry  Stephen.  Have  you  ever  read  Galdos'  Dona  Perfecta? 
In  every  country  you  will  find  such  nests  of  provincials.  Change 
but  a  few  names  and  customs.  Each  Klein-Stadt  has  its  local 
gods  and  will  kill  those  who  offend  them.  In  one  place  it  is 
religion,  in  another  some  crank  theory  of  hygiene  or  morals,  or 
even  of  prudery  which  takes  no  moral  concern. 
Rabelais :  Yet  all  peoples  act  the  same  way.  The  same  so-called 
"vices"  are  everywhere  present,  unless  your  nation  has  invented 
some  new  ones. 

Student :  Greed  and  hypocrisy,  there  is  little  novelty  to  be  got 
out  of  either.  At  present  there  is  a  new  tone,  a  new  timbre  of 
lying,  a  sort  of  habit,  almost  a  faculty  for  refraining  from  con- 


20  The    Little    Review 


necting   words   with   a    fact.     An   inconception   of   their   inter- 
relations. , 
Rabelais :    Let  us  keep  out  of  poHtics. 
Student:    Damn  it,  have  you  ever  met  presbyterians ? 
Rabelais:    You  forget  that  I  lived  in  the  time  of  John  Calvin. 
Student :    Let  us  leave  this  and  talk  of  your  books. 
Rabelais:     My  book  has  the  fault  of  most  books,  there  are  too 
many  words  in  it.     I  was  tainted  with  monkish  habits,  with  the 
marasmus  of  allegory,  of  putting  one  thing   for  another:   the 
clumsiest  method  of  satire.    I  doubt  if  any  modern  will  read  me. 
Student:     I  knew  a  man  read  you  for  joy  of  the  words,  for  the 
opulence  of  your  vocabulary. 

Rabelais:  Which  would  do  him  no  good  unless  he  could  keep  all 
the  words  on  his  tongue.  Tell  me,  can  you  read  them,  they  are 
often  merely  piled  up  in  heaps. 

Student :  I  confess  that  I  can  not.  I  take  a  page  and  then  stop. 
Rabelais :  Allegory,  all  damnable  allegory !  And  can  you  read 
Brantome? 

Student:  I  can  read  a  fair  chunk  of  Brantome.  The  repetition 
is  wearing. 

Rabelais:    And  you  think  your  age  is  as  stupid  as  mine?    Even 
letters  are  better,  a  critical  sense  is  developed. 
Student :    We  lack  the  old  vigour. 

Rabelais:  A  phrase  you  have  got  from  professors!  Vigour  was 
not  lacking  in  Stendhal,  I  doubt  if  it  is  lacking  in  your  day.  And 
as  for  the  world  being  as  stupid,  are.  your  friends  tied  to  the 
stake,  as  was  Etienne  Dolet,  with  an  "Ave"  wrung  out  of  him 
to  get  him  strangled  instead  of  roasted.  Do  you  have  to  stand 
making  professions  like  Bude  ? ! ! 

Vivens  vidensque  gloria  mea  frui 

Volo:  nihil  juvat  mortuum 

Quod  vel  diserte  scripserit  vel  fecerit 

Animose. 

Student:     What  is  that? 

Rabelais:     Some  verses  of  Dolet's.     And  are  you  starved  like 
Desperiers,  Bonaventura,  and  driven  to  suicide? 
Student:    The  last  auto-da-fe  was  in  1759.     The  inquisition  re- 
established in  1824. 

Rabelais:    Spain  again!    I  was  speaking  of  .  . . 
Student :    Wq  are  not  yet  out  of  the  wood.    There  is  no  end  to 
this  warfare.     You  talk  of  freedom.     Have  you  heard  of  the 


The    Little    Review  21 

Hammersmith  borough  council,  or  the  society  to  suppress  all 
brothels  in  "Rangoon  and  other  stations  in  Burmah?"  If  it  is 
not  creed  it  is  morals.  Your  life  and  works  would  not  be  pos- 
sible nowadays.  To  put  it  mildly,  you  would  be  docked  your 
professorship. 

Rabelais:  I  should  find  other  forms  of  freedom.  As  for  per- 
sonal morals :  There  are  certain  so-called  "sins"  of  which  no 
man  ever  repented.  There  are  certain  contraventions  of  hy- 
giene which  always  prove  inconvenient.  None  but  superstitious 
and  ignorant  people  can  ever  confuse  these  two  issues.  And  as 
hygiene  is  always  changing;  as  it  alters  with  our  knowledge  of 
physick,  intelligent  men  will  keep  pace  with  it.  There  can  be  no 
permanent  boundaries  to  morals. 

Student:  The  droits  du  seigneur  were  doubtless,  at  one  time, 
religious.  When  ecclesiastics  enjoyed  them,  they  did  so,  in  order 
to  take  the  vengeance  of  the  spirit-world  upon  their  own 
shoulders,  thereby  shielding  and  sparing  the  husband. 
Rabelais:  Indeed  you  are  far  past  these  things.  Your  age  no 
longer  accepts  them. 

Student:  My  age  is  beset  with  cranks  of  all  forms  and  sizes. 
They  will  not  allow  a  man  wine.     They   will  not  allow   him 

changes  of  women.     This  glass 

Rabelais:  There  is  still  some  in  the  last  bottle.  DeThou  has 
paid  it  a  compliment :"  Aussi  Bacchus  .... 

Jusqu'en  I'autre  monde  m'envoye  Dequoi  dissiper  mon 
chagrin. 

Car  de  ma  Maison  paternelle  II  vient  de  faire  un  Cabaret 

Ou  le  plaisir  se  renouvelle  Entre  le  blanc  et  el  clairet.  .  . 

On  n'y  porte  plus  sa  pensee  Qu'aux  douceurs  d'un  Vin 
f  rais  et  net. 

Que  si  Pluton,  que  rien  ne  tente,  Vouloit  se  payer  de 

raison, 

Et  permetre  a  mon  Ombre  errante  De  faire  un  tour 
a  ma  Maison ; 

Quelque  prix  que  j'eu  piisse  attendre,  Ce  seroit  mon 
premier  souhait 

De  la  louer  ou  de  la  vendre.  Pour  I'usage  que  I'on  en  fait. 
Student:  There  are  states  where  a  man's  tobacco  is  not  safe 
from  invasion.     Bishops,  novelists,  decrepit  and  aged  generals, 

purveyors  of  tales  of  detectives 

Rabdais :    Have  they  ever  interfered  with  your  pleasures  ? 
Student :    Damn  well  let  them  try  it  ! ! ! 

Rabelais :  I  am  afraid  you  would  have  been  burned  in  my  century. 
END  OF  THE  FIRST  DIALOGUE 


22  The    Little    Review 

Imaginary  Letters 

(Six  Letters  of  William  Bland  Burn  to  his  Wife) 
Wyndham  Lewis 

Petrograd,  February,  1917. 
jyjY  DEAR  LYDIA: 

Once  more  to  the  charge=  In  your  answer  to  my  let- 
ter I  feel  the  new  touch  of  an  independent  attack.  Yillerant 
comes  in,  but  I  feel  this  time  that  you  have  set  your  own  dear 
person  up  for  a  rebuff.  You  have  not  sent  me  any  Aunt  Sally, 
but  my  Grecian  wife.  I  will  take  two  things  and  answer  them.^ 
First,  you  object  to  my  treatment  of  the  Gentleman,  because 
you  sharply  maintain,  more  or  less,  that  I  by  no  means  object 
to  being  a  gentleman  myself. =On  that  point,  my  dear  girl,  you 
have  not  got  me.  For  many  purposes,  on  occasion  I  should  not 
hesitate  to  emphasize  the  fact  that  I  was  not  born  in  the  gutter. 
If,  for  instance,  I  was  applying  for  a  post  where  such  a  qualifi- 
cation was  necessary,  Harrow  would  not  be  forgotten.  The 
Gutter  generally  spoils  a  man's  complexion  in  childhood.  He 
grows  up  with  sores  around  his  mouth  and  a  constantly  dirty 
skin.  His  eyes,  unless  he  has  them  well  in  hand,  become  wolf- 
ish and  hard,  etc.  Who  would  not  be  better  pleased  that  he  was 
born  on  the  sunny  side  of  the  wall?  All  that  has  nothing  to 
do  with  my  argument.  Those  things  are  in  themselves  nothing 
to  linger  round,  although  the  opposite,  squalor  and  meanness, 
it  is  more  excusable  to  remember  and  lament. 

But  in  your  last  letter  you  reveal  an  idea  that  seems  chiefly 
to  have  struck  you,  and  which  is  at  the  bottom  of  your  present 
obstinacy.  In  your  letter  of  last  month  you  kept  it  in  the  back- 
ground, or  did  not  state  it  in  so  many  words. 

(In  once  more  reading  through  your  present  letter,  I  find  you 
have  not  even  stated  it  there.  Kut  I  see,  I  believe,  the  notion 
that  has  found  favour  with  you.)  I  will  give  you  my  opinion 
on  it  in  the  form  of  a  criticism  of  an  article  I  read  yesterday  in 
an  English  paper  (one  of  those  you  sent  me). 

A  Russian  war-novel  is  discussed.  The  writer  of  the  article 
"does  not  care  much  for  Russian  books,"  he  finds  that  "the 
Englishman  begins  where  the  Russian  leaves  oflF."    The  Russian 


T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    R  ev  i  e  w  23 

book  seems  to  deal  with  the  inner  conflict  of  a  Russian  grocer 
on  the  outbreak  of  War.  The  Russian  grocer  is  confused  and 
annoyed.  He  asks  what  all  this  bloody  trouble  has  to  do  with 
him — the  small  grocer.  He  cogitates  on  the  causes  of  such  up- 
heavals, and  is  not  convinced  that  there  is  anything  in  them 
calling  for  his  participation.  But  eventually  he  realizes  that 
there  is  a  great  and  moving  abstraction  called  Russia=the  old 
abstraction  in  fact,  the  old  Pied  Piper  whistling  his  mournful 
airs,  and  waving  towards  a  snow-bound  horizon.  And — le  voild 
in  khakir=or  the  Russian  equivalent.  At  this  point  he  becomes 
"noble,"  and  of  interest  to  the  writer  of  the  article — But  there, 
alas,  the  book  ends,=  Now,  (of  course  the  writer  of  the  article 
continues)  zve  in  England  do  not  do  things  in  that  way.  We 
do  not  portray  the  boring  and  hardly  respectable  conflict.  No 
Englishman  (all  Englishmen  having  the  instincts  of  gentlemen) 
admits  the  possibility  of  such  a  conflict.  We  are  accomplished 
beings,  des  hommes,  on  pliitot  des  gentlemen  faits!  We  should 
begin  with  the  English  grocer  already  in  khaki,  quite  calm,  (he 
would  probably  be  described  as  a  little  "grim"  withal)  in  the 
midst  of  his  military  training  on  Salisbury  Plain.  A  Kipling- 
esque  picture  of  that :  Revetting  would  come  in,  and  bomb- 
throwing  at  night.  He  next  would  be  in  the  trenches.  The 
writer  would  show,  without  the  cunning,  hardly  respectable, 
disguise  of  any  art,  ho\y  the  Balham  grocer  of  to-day  was  the 
same  soldier,  really,  that  won  at  Waterloo^  You  would  not  get 
a  person  or  a  fact,  but  a  piece  of  patriotic  propaganda  (the 
writer  of  course  being  meanwhile  a  shrewd  fellow,  highly  ap- 
proved and  well-paid). 

Now  glance  at  Tolstoi  for  a  moment,  that  arch  Russian  bore, 
and  at  his  book  of  Sebastopol  sketches.  He  was  an  hereditary 
noble,  and  it  is  rather  difficult  to  say  that  an  hereditary  noble  is 
not  a  gentleman.  But  can  the  English  journalist  in  his  'Jort 
interieur"  admit  that  Tolstoi  was  a  gentleman,  all  things  con- 
sidered? These  foreign  "nobles"  are  a  funny  sort  of  gentle- 
men, anyway.  For  let  us  see  how  Tolstoi  writes  of  the  Russians 
at  Sebastopol. =  He  arrives  at  the  town  of  Sebastopol.  He 
has  read  in  the  Moscow  newspapers  of  the  "heroic  defenders 
of  Sebastopol."  His  first  impression  is  one  of  astonishment  and 
disappointment  of  a  sort.  For  there  is  nothing  noticeably  heroic 
about  the  demeanour  of  the  soldiers  working  at  the  quays  or 
walking  in  the  streets.     They  are  not  even  heroic  by  reason  of 


24  The    Little    Revie 


zv 


the  ineffable  "cheeriness"  of  the  British  Tommy —  (No  jour- 
nalist would  be  tolerated  for  a  moment  who  did  not,  once  in 
every  twenty  lines,  remark  on  this  ineffable  national  heroism  of 
humour. )=Tolstoi,  that  is,  does  not  want  to  see  heroes,  but 
men  under  given  conditions  and,  that  is,  sure  enough,  what  he 
sees.  He  also,  being  an  hereditary  noble  and  so  on,  does  not 
want  to  make  his  living.  One  more  opportunity  of  truth  and 
clearness!  Next,  when  Tolstoi  gets  up  to  the  bastions,  he  again 
sees  no  heroes  with  any  ineffable  national  cachet.  The  "heroes" 
of  his  sketches  and  tales,  in  fact,  stoop  and  scurry  along  behind 
parapets  in  lonely  sectors,  and  when  they  see  another  man  com- 
ing straighten  themselves  out,  and  clank  their  spurs.  They  kill 
people  in  nightmares,  and  pray  pessimistically  to  their  God.  You 
cannot  at  the  end  apply  any  labels  to  them.  Tolstoi's  account 
of  their  sensations  and  genuine  exploits  would  not  strike  terror 
in  the  heart  of  future  enemies  of  the  Russian  race ;  it  is  not  an 
advertisement,  or  the  ordinary  mawkish  bluff  thrown  over  a 
reality.  He  had  the  sense  to  see  human  beings  and  not  Rus- 
sians. And  Russians  are  chiefly  redoubtable,  and  admirable,  be- 
cause of  this  capacity  of  impersonal  seeing  and  feeling.  Where 
they  are  least  Russian  in  fact. 

The  discriminating  enemy  in  reading  these  sketches,  would 
fear  that  more  than  he  would  any  unreal  or  interested  gush. 

There  always  remains  the  question  as  to  whether,  by  gush 
and  bluff  and  painting  a  pretty  picture  of  a  man,  you  cannot 
make  him  become  that  pictures  and  whether,  politically,  it  may 
not  be  desirable  to  manufacture  illusions  of  that  description. 
But  what  have  we  got  to  do  with  politicians  ? 

Again,  I  am  not  saying  that  Russians  have  not  a  national 
gush.  Tolstoi  himself  indulges  in  it.  Everybody  indulges  in 
such  things.  It  is  a  question  only  of  the  scale  of  such  indul- 
gence; of  the  absence  per  head  in  a  population  of  the  reverse. 

So  then,  what  the  paper-writer's  point  amounted  to  was  that 
only  gentlemen  (or,  sententiously,  men)  were  worth  writing 
about=:or  only  at  the  moment  when  a  man  becomes  a  "gentle-- 
man"  is  he  interesting,  worth  noticing,  or  suitable  for  portrayal. 
We  all,  however,  know  the  simple  rules  and  manifestations  of 
this  ideal  figure.  There  is  not  much  left  to  say  on  the  subject. 
Ah  yes,  but  there  is  such  and  such  a  one's  ineffable  zvay  of  being 
a  gentleman ! — 

In  London  you  will  meet  few  educated  people  who  really  are 


The   Little    Review  25 

willing  or  able  to  give  Russian  books  their  due.  Dostoevsky  is 
a  sort  of  epileptic  bore,  Tolstoi  a  wrong-headed  old  altruistic 
bore,  Gorky  a  Tramp-stunt  bore,  Turgenev,  even,  although  in 
another  category,  in  some  way  disappointing.  — All  Russian 
writers  insist  on  discovering  America,  opening  discussions  on 
matters  that  our  institutions,  our  position  in  society,  our  Franco- 
English  intelligence  preclude  any  consideration  of.  There  is 
something  permanently  transcendental  and  disconcerting  about 
the  Slav  infant,  and  he  pours  his  words  out  and  argues  inter- 
minably, and  is  such  an  inveterate  drunkard, — as  though  his 
natural  powers  of  indecorum  and  earnestness  were  not  already 
enough. 

What  really  could  be  said  of  the  Russian  is  this= Shake- 
speare is  evidently  better  than  any  Russian  novelist,  or  more  per- 
manently valuable.  But  the  little  Russian  Grocer  could  rival 
Hamlet  in  vaccilation;  or  any  Russian,  Shakespeare,  in  his  por- 
trayal of  the  machinery  of  the  mind.  Dostoievsky  is  not  more 
dark  and  furiuos  than  Shakespeare's  pessimistic  figures,  Lear, 
Macbeth,  etc.    But  we  are  not  Englishmen  of  Shakespeare's  days. 

We  are  very  pleased  that  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth  such  a 
national  ornament  existed.  But  Shakespeare  would  be  an 
anachronism  to-day. 

Dostoevsky  and  Co.  were  anachronisms  as  contemporaries  of 
Tennyson  and  Napoleon  III.  Had  they  been  embedded  two 
centuries  back  in  Sixteenth  Century  Russia,  they  would  not  be 
read,  but  would  not  cause  annoyance  and  be  called  epileptic 
bores.  Epilepsy  would  have  been  all  right  in  those  distances. — 
There  is  nothing  devoue  about  epilepsy  to-day,  any  more  than 
there  is  about  a  King! 

I  think  I  have  been  lucid,  if  rather  long-winded=r 

How  I  look  on  these  Christian  Demi-Gods  of  the  Steppes  you 
know.  I  like  them  immensely.  For  a  single  brandyish  whiff 
from  one  of  Dostovesky's  mouths,  at  some  vivid  angle  of  turpi- 
tude I  would  give  all  English  literature  back  to  Shelley's  songs. 
Turgenev's  Sportsman's  Sketches  enchant  me.  They  are  so 
sober,  delicate  and  nonchalant;  I  can  think  of  nothing  like  them. 
Gogol's  Tchichikoff  is  back  with  Cervantes,  Sterne  and  the 
others  who  have  not  any  peers  in  these  days. 

Today=  the  requirements  of  the  little  man,  especially  of  this 
day,  are  a  similar  thing  to  the  Russian,  the  Englishman,  etc. 
We  must  disembarrass  ourselves  of  this  fetish  or  gush,  as  of 
that  other. — I  want  to  live  with  Shakespeare  and  Cervantes:= 


26 

The 

Lx 

ttle 

Review 

and  I  have 

gone 

to  war 

for 

good 

with  all 

things 

that 

would 

op- 

pose  a  return  to  those  realities. 

I  feel  you,  in  my  absence,  becoming  enmeshed  in  environing 
respectability  and  its  amiable  notions.  I  feel  that  this  letter  may 
require  another  fervour  to  drive  home,  or  excuse,  its  own:= 
A  coup  de  poing  is  the  best  method  of  enforcing  an  idea  (or  a 
shell)  =the  mouth  is  similarly  a  more  satisfactory  aperture  than 
the  ear  for  introducing  a  philosophy  into  another  body.  Yorke 
is  the  embody ment  of  my  philosophy.  I  love  Yorke  in  exactly 
the  way  that  I  love  a  character  in  Aloliere  or  Turgenev.  Yorke 
is  the  only  Ihnng  thing  except  yourself,  that  I  know  or  find  alive 
to  the  same  extent. 

I  shall  stick  here  a  little  longer,  and  see  what  comes  of  my 
new  venture.  There  have  been  lots  of  delays  and  difficulties 
which  I  will  recite  to  you  when  we  meet.  I  can,  I  am  afraid, 
say  absolutely  nothing  definite  about  my  return.  But  I  will 
write  to  you  in  a  few  days  and  tell  you  more  certainly.  Mean- 
time, much  love,  my  dear  girl.  I  wish  you  were  here  with  me. 
But  on  seeing  how  active  the  Germans  are,  it  is  out  of  the  ques- 
tion your  crossing  the  North  Sea. 

I  am  looking  forward  to  your  next  letter.     Much  love. 

Yours,  W.  B.  Burn. 

{Next  letter  of  series  will  appear  in  July  number.) 

The  Reader  Critic 

From  James  Joyce 

James  Joyce,  Zurich,  Switzerland: 

I  am  very  glad  to  hear  about  the  new  plans  for  The  L%U\ 
Review  and  that  you  have  got  together  so  many  good  writers 
contributors.  I  hope  to  send  you  something  very  soon — as  soc 
in  fact,  as  my  health  allows  me  to  resume  work.  I  am  much  bett^ 
however,  though  I  am  still  under  care  of  the  doctor.  I  wish  T^ 
Little  Review  every  success. 

Approval 

Alice  Groff,  Philadelphia: 

Never  has  The  Little  Review  pleased  me,  from  cover  to  cover, 
as  in  the  May  numl)er.  I  cannot  imagine  finding  any  one  to  express 
me  for  myself,  but  Mr.  Ezra  Pound  in  his  editorial  comes  the 
nearest  possible  to  doing  this,  as  far  as  he  goes. 

What  he  says  about  the  Christian  religion  is  delicious  in  its 
gentle   tolerance;   about  organized   religions,   is   the  last  word;   about 


I 


T  h  e   Li  1 1 1  e    R  e  V  i  e  w  27 


"the  formation  of  thought  in  clear  speech  for  the  use  of  humanity," 
a  religion  in  itself.  He  utters  my  whole  voice  on  "codes  of  propriety" 
in  asserting  that  "they  have  no  place  in  the  arts."  I  would  add 
"nor  in  life,  other  than  as  subject  matter." 

His  rallying  cry  to  The  Egoist  stirs  my  egoist  soul  to  its  depth. 
Ever  since  I  have  known  this  journal  I  have  felt  it  to  be  the  finest, 
freest,  frankest,  bravest  avenue  of  expression  in  English  ever  opened 
to  the  creative  literary  mind,  in  all  its  variety  of  faculty,  without 
having  the  least  bias  or  prejudice  as  to  any  one  variety.  That  The 
Little  Review  should  respond  to  this  rallying  cry  would  add  a  still  deeper 
and  stronger  point  to  my  already  deep  and  strong  interest  in  this  brave 
little   (?)    magazine. 

Fear  Not 

Mrs.  O.  D.  J.: 

I  have  great  faith  in  the  artistic  life  of  America  and  I  don't 
think  Ezra  Pound's  notions  of  it  are  very  healthy.  I  sincerely  hope 
the  trend  of  it  will  not  emulate  the  "smart"  or  dissipated  literature 
which  seems  to  please  London  and  which  can  hardly  come  under  the 
head  of  "good  letters."  America  must  not  necessarily  be  content 
with  jejune  flows  of  words.  Really  the  only  half  interesting  articles 
that  appeared  in  the  May  number  were  Eliot's  and  Pound's — the 
former  because  it  was  about  as  good  as  The  Smart  Set  and  the  latter 
on  account  of  auld  lang  syne.  My  harshness  is  really  flattering  be- 
cause it  shows  that  I  expect  better  things  from  the  "cultured" 
English. 

[We  will  take  this  opportunity  of  answering  all  those  who  have 
verbally  or  in  letters  expressed  the  fear  that  The  Little  Review  will 
entirely  change  its  nature  and  be  influenced  in  the  future  by  its 
Foreign  Editor.  I  do  not  want  to  be  flippant,  but  indeed  little  faith 
is  shown  in  us  by  all  those  who  have  known  our  struggle  to  be 
what  we  believe,  and  our  financial  struggle  to  be  at  all.  Fear  not, 
dear  ones.  We  have  learned  to  be  penny  wise;  we  will  not  be  Pound 
foolish.  We  agree  with  Pound  in  the  spirit;  if  we  don't  always  agree 
with  him  in  the  letter  be  sure  we  will  mention  it.  And  Pound  didn't 
slip  up  on  us  unaware.  A  mutual  misery  over  the  situation  brought 
us  together. 

And  you,  dear  Mrs.  O.  D.  J.,  what  made  you  think  that  Ezra 
Pound  and  T.  S.  Eliot  were  "cultured"  English?  Because  geese  are 
white  and  float  upon  water  they  are  not  necessarily  swans.  Pound 
too  seems  to  have  enough  faith  in  "good  letters"  to  spare  a  little 
for  America  and  share  "cultured"  English  with  her.  Healthy?  The 
unhealth  is  in  the  artistic  life  of  America;  and  whatever  the  ailment, 
bitter  and  acid  medicine  seems  necessary  to  cure  it.  America  must 
not  be  content  for  a  great  while  with  the  stuff  produced  here — 
jejune  flows  of  words  about  popularizing  art,  home-town  poets  and 
great  American  novelists,  and  never-been-abroad  painters.  This 
seems  to  content  it  well  enough  now. 

But  I  congratulate  you  on  being  able  to  read  The  Smart  Set  as 
literature.  Maybe  the  audience  will  after  all  produce  the  art.  I 
wonder.    .    .] 


28  The    Little    Review 


A  Poet's  Opinion 

Maxwell  Bodcnheim,  New  York: 

Ezra  Pound  writes  in  his  editorial  which  headed  your  last  number 
that  "the  two  novels  by  Joyce  and  Lewis,  and  Mr.  Eliot's  poems,  are 
not  only  the  most  important  contributions  to  English  literature  of 
the  past  three  years,  but  are  practically  the  only  works  of  the  time 
in  which  the  creative  element  is  present,  which  in  any  way  show 
invention,  or  a  progress  beyond  precedent  work." 

It  is  easy  to  make  statements  of  this  kind,  but,  having  made  them, 
a  critic  should  tell  us  on  what  he  bases  his  dictum.  The  trouble 
with  criticism  of  art,  today,  is  that  it  isn't  criticism.  The  critic 
writes  statements  of  untempered  liking  or  disliking,  and  does  not 
trouble  to  support  them  with  detailed  reasons.  We  are  simply  sup- 
posed to  take  the  critic's  word  for  the  matter.  I  haven't  sufficient 
belief  in  the  infallibility  of  Ezra  Pound's  mind  to  require  no  substan- 
tion  of  his  statements.  I  have  several  faults  to  find  with  his  methods 
of  criticising  poetry.  He's  a  bit  too  easily  swayed  by  his  personal 
emotions,  in  that  regard.  I  happen  to  know  that  in  an  article  of  his, 
which  appeared  in  Poetry,  some  time  ago  he  omitted  the  name  of  a 
very  good  modern  American  poet,  from  the  "American-Team"  he 
was  mentioning,  merely  because  he  has  a  personal  dislike  for  that 
poet. 

He  has  also,  too  great  a  longing  to  separate  poets  into  arbitrary 
teams,  of  best  and  worst.  Poets  are  either  black  or  white  to  him — 
never  grey. 

In  speaking  of  Harriet  Monroe  he  says  that  she  has  conducted 
her  magazine  in  a  spirited  manner,  considering  the  fact  that  she  is 
faced  with  the  practical  problem  of  circulating  a  magazine  in  a  certain 
peculiar  milieu.  But  he  does  not  add  that  those  are  not  the  colors 
in  which  Miss  Monroe,  herself,  comes  forth.  If  she  admitted  that 
she  was  a  practical  woman,  trying  to  print  as  much  good  poetry 
as  she  can,  and  still  gain  readers,  there  would  only  be  the  question 
of  whether  one  believed  that  compromise  is  always  the  only  method 
of  assuring  the  existence  of  a  magazine.  But  she  refuses  to  admit 
that  she  is  a  serious  compromiser.  She  stands  upon  a  pedestal  oj 
utter  idealism.     Mr.  Pound  did  not  mention  this  aspect. 

His  claim  that  Eliot  is  the  only  really  creative  poet  brought 
forth  during  recent  times  is  absurd.  H.  D.,  Fletcher,  Marianne  MoorC; 
Williams,  Michelson  at  his  best.  Carl  Sandburg,  and  Wallace  Stevens 
are  certainly  not  inevitably  below  Eliot  in  quality  of  work.  Eliot's 
work  is  utterly  original,  attains  moments  of  elicate  satire,  and  digs 
into  the  tangled  inner  dishonesties  of  men.  But  many  of  the  poets 
I  have  mentioned  are  as  good  in  their  own  way  as  Eliot  is  in  his, 
in  addition  to  their  being  just  as  original  as  he.  I  have  not  Mr. 
Pound's  fondness  for  making  lists,  so  I'm  afraid  I  may  have  ommited 
the  names  of  some  American  poets  entitled  to  mention,  even  from 
my  own  limited  view  point.  But  I  will  say  that  at  least  the  number 
of  poets  I  have  mentioned  are  fully  the  equals  of  Mr.  Pound's 
nominee  for  supreme  honors — T.  S.  Eliot. 


The    Little    Review  29 


[I  get  very  tired  of  the  talk  about  the  establishment  of  two  autocra- 
:ies  of  opinion,  and  the  claim  that  since  each  is  the  opinion  of  a 
:apable  brain  each  has  therefore  the  right  to  serious  artistic 
:onsideration.  Now  it  is  a  fact  that  one  particular  kind  of  brain 
:an  put  forward  this  claim  and  establish  its  legitimate  autocracy.  It 
is  the  brain  that  functions  aesthetically  rather  than  emotionally. 
Most  artists  haven't  this  kind.  Their  work  drains  their  aesthetic 
reserve — and  they  usually  talk  rot  about  art.  There  are  thousands 
3f  examples — such  as  Beethoven  treasuring  the  worst  poetry  he 
:ould  find.  There  are  notable  exceptions,  such  as  Leonardo,  such 
js  Gaudier-Brzeska.  Ezra  Pound  seems  to  have  this  kind  of  brain. 
[  am  not  familiar  with  all  his  judgments,  but  those  I  have  r^ad 
[lave  always  been  characterized  by  an  aesthetic  synthesis  which 
neans  that  he  can  rightly  be  called  a  "critic." 

To  this  kind  of  brain  things  are  black  and  white — which  means 
jood  or  bad  of  their  kind.  If  by  grey  you  mean  that  a  poet  is 
ilmost  good,  then  the  critic  will  have  to  call  him  black,  meaning  that 
le  is  a  bad  poet.  There  is  no  middle  ground.  If  by  grey  you  mean 
■hat  he  is  a  grey  poet  doing  good  grey  work,  then  the  critic  will  call 
lim  white, — meaning  that  he  is  a  good  poet. — M.  C.  A.] 


Complaint 


Vew  York  Subscribers: 

We  have  read  the  first  installment  of  the  much-advertised 
London  stuflf  and  our  comment  is  that  unless  "And..."  and  "The 
R.eader  Critic"  are  restored,  and  at  once,  we  withdraw  our  moral 
ind  financial  support. 

For  the  Ancheologist 

That  great  journal,  The  New  Republic — I  cannot  say  that  great 
ontemporary  journal:  it  is  here  with  us  in  the  flesh,  but  in  the 
pirit  it  abides  with  the  Bible,  the  Koran,  the  Books  of  Maroni,  and 
ill  great  and  ancient  works  of  prophecy,  truth  and  revelation — that 
jreat  journal,  mentioning  even  the  least  of  us,  spoke  thus:  "There 
vas  The  Little  Review  which  began  in  high  spirits,  published  some 
nteresting  experiments  and  a  few  achievements,  and  in  the  course 
)f  three  years  has  sunk  to  pink  covers  with  purple  labels  and  an 
ssue  ecstatically  dedicated  to   Mary   Garden.'" 

When  these  quaverings  of  senility  reached  us  we  were  laid  waste 
nd  brought  to  silence.  We  knew  not  wiiether  Isaiah  or  Hosea  or 
ikiohamet  had  spoken. 

But  now  from  the  archives  of  The  New  Republic  comes  this 
ragment  in  the  form  of  a  rejection  of  some  Chinese  poetry:  "Our 
:xpert  on  Chinese  poetry  does  not  think  that  these  translations  are 
.  etc."  We  feel  that  we  have  come  upon  something  of  great 
nterest  to  archeologists  and  to  all  our  readers  who  are  excited  over 
:he  Mysteries  of  History.  Is  it  possible  that  Li  Po  himself  may 
«  on  the  staff  of  The  New  Republic,  now  too  old  to  create  but 
till  retained  on  its  board  of  experts? 


30  T  h  c    L  i  1 1 1  c    R  c  V  i  e  ic 


Mary  MacLane's  Criticism 


Mary  MacLane,  Butte,  Montana: 

"All  3'our  bits  of.  criticism  of  my  book  are  true — but  didn't  I  say 
them  first?  Don't  I  say  I  have  a  conscience?"  Don't  I  say  it's  an 
exasperating  book — don't  I  say  it's  all  incongruous?  Don't  I  tacitly 
tell  you  fifty  times  it  is  not  creative  Ijut  photographic?  I  call  it  a  diary 
of  human  days:  just  that.'  Not  artist  days  nor  poet  days.  Human 
days  must  include  the  teakettle,  the  smoking  chimney  and  the  word 
Refined.  Refined  is  not  my  word  at  all.  In  my  bright  lexicon  there's 
no  such  word.  I  use  it  because  I  am  living  human  days  and  pel* 
force  encountering  such  words  now  and  again.  Have  you  tl^ 
eourage,  jh,  to  tell  me  I  am  too  subtle,  to  sub-analytic,  for  yout 
I  set  apart  the  word  Refined  to  show  it's  "their"  word,  not  minfc 
Yet  you  solemnly  take  me  to  task  for  questioning  the  "refinement^ 
the  "sincerity,"  of  my  mountain  shower-bath  emotions.  I  don^ 
question  anything.  I'm  saying  what  "they"  do:  In  "someway  th< 
Lesbian"  chapter  I  maintain  I  doubly  prove,  not  "refute,"  my  analytu 
freedom.  The  book  being  human  days  includes  the  domestic  thing 
I  live  in  a  house  and  like  it.  I  w-rite  as  a  human  being  not  as  an 
artist.  You  can't  get  away  from  your  tooth-brush.  "Human  days' 
includes  satyrs  and  sisters  looked  at  from  exactly  the  same  vantage— 
unless  you're  a  Christian  Endeavor.  You  write  justly,  jh,  but  wh\ 
label  me  with  that  "sexual"?  I  wrote  also  of  my  shoes:  I  contt»« 
buted  also  the  theory  of  Shoes. 

[Dear  "I  Alary  Maclane" :  All  you  have  to  say  about  my  "criti 
cism"  of  j^our  book  sounds  just  to  me.  Yes,  j-ou  said  them  first  ant 
fifty  times  at  least;  that's  why  I  mentioned  them  at  all.  I  though' 
perhaps  the  reason  you  said  them  so  often  was  because  you  hope( 
it  otherwise.  Perhaps  j'ou  are  too  "subtle,"  too  "sub-analytic,"  toe 
educated  for  me.  I  am  just  a  painter.  While  I  know,  from  th« 
aching  of  the  heart  to  the  sickness  of  the  stomach,  what  human  day; 
must  include,  I  haven't  yet  got  to  the  point  where  I  am  willing  tc 
believe  that  writing  a  book  doesn't  come  under  the  same  laws  a; 
painting  a  picture,  sculping,  or  making  music.  If  subject  is  no 
transformed  into  design  by  some  inevitable  quality  in  the  artist  thei 
you  have  not  made  a  book;  you  have  merely  helped  to  clutter  uj 
the  place.  I  may  be  narrow-minded  but  I  can't  quite  see  any  art  a: 
a  common  activity  or  a  household  dutj-,  indulged  in  or  performed  a: 
an  either  nr  or.  "I  will  clean  ofif  the  snow  or  paint  a  picture;  ] 
will  milk  the  cow  or  do  a  little  modelling."  I  haven't  been  aboti" 
enough  to  have  found  it  so  in  any  families;  nor  have  I  read  enough  tc 
have  found  it  so  in  many  families,  except  perhaps  the  Da  Vine 
family. 

.  "Refined  is  not  my  word,"  you  say.  I  think  the  book  exonerate! 
you;  but  why  your  concern  with  it  at  all  was  my  point,  not  m) 
criticism. 

As  to  the  label  "sexual,"  I  meant  shoes  and  all, — the  whol« 
hereditary   attitude,    in   your   case    intriguing   because   neurasthenic. 

Sorry:  but  I  did  not  solemnly  take  3'ou  to  task.  One  must  evei 
criticize  with  joy. — jh.] 


T  h  e    L  i  1 1 1  e    R  e  V  i  c  w  31 


From  "The  Dial" 

"A  quaint  manifestation  of  editorial  ethics  crops  out  in  the  April 
issue  of  The  Little  Review.  It  is  in  connection  with  a  .  vers  libre 
contest,  this  being  the  issue  in  which  the  awards  are  made.  There 
was  a  regularly  constituted  board  of  judges — three  people  sufficiently 
competent  and  sufficiently  well  known  in  their  field;  but  the  editor 
has  chosen  to  indulge  in  some  disclosures  as  to  the  lack  of  un- 
animity amongst  her  aids  and  even  in  some  pointed  animadversions 
on  their  tastes  and  preferences.  Of  the  first  choice  of  one  of 
them,  she  says:  What  is  there  in  the  "subtle  depth  of  thought"? 
Almost  every  kind  of  person  in  the  world  has  had  this  thought. 
And  what  is  there  in  the  treatment  to  make  it  poetry?'  And  the 
poem  itself  follows.  Of  the  two  chosen  for  prizes  by  another 
judge,  she  observes:  'These  two  poems  are  pretty  awful' — and  she 
prints  them,  with  the  authors'  names,  as  before.  The  third  judge 
plumped  for  a  pair  of  others — 'provided  Richard  Aldington  wrote 
them;  otherwise  not.  .  .  If  he  wrote  them  they  are  authentic  as  well 
as  lovely;  but  if  he  did  not,  so  flagrant  an  imitation  ought  not  to  be 
encouraged.'  A  perfectly  sound  position  to  take.  Here  again  the 
poems  follow — and  they  are  under  a  name  not  Aldington's.  Query: 
has  the  judge,  whose  name  is  given  too,  exactly  made  a  friend? 
Then  comes,  of  course,  a  succession  of  poems  approved  by  the 
editor  but  ignored  by  her  helpers.  .  .  If  such  a  system  spreads, 
the  embarrassments  and  e^en  perils  of  judgeship  will  grow.  Here- 
after few  may  care  to  serve  as  judges,  except  under  stipulations 
designed  to  afford  some  protection.  And  as  for  the  poor  poets 
themselves,  such  treatment  should  act  to  keep  them  out  of  'contests' 
altogether." 


[Here  is  the  old  Dial  showing  them  all  up.  So  there  is  an 
American  editorial  association  just  like  the  American  Medical  Asso- 
ciation with  all  its  crimonology  of  professional  ethics! 

We  thought  that  the  idea  of  that  verse  libre  contest  (it  wasn't  our 
idea)  was  to  stimulate  interest  in  and  more  understanding  of  free 
verse,  not  to  oflfer  an  operation  for  judges  nor  a  fee  for  poets. 
Taking  it  simply  as  a  free  verse  contest,  the  editor  thought  the  only 
concern  was  with  free  verse.  Since  when  has  Art  to  do  with  ethics 
or  with  taste?  If  the  poets  and  judges  in  the  contest  were  as  im- 
personal, direct,  and  sincere  in  their  attitude  toward  poetry  as  the 
editor,  the  fussy  anxiety  of  The  Dial  over  their  plight  is  needless. 
But  of  course  if  to  serve  poetry  is  to  serve  yourself  there  isn't  much 
point  to  a  contest  except  the  money.  On  the  other  hand,  if  a  con- 
test is  to  be  run  on  the  "tastes  and  preferences"  or  sensitiveness  of 
the  judges  then  it  is  clear  that  the  neatest  poem  chosen  by  the 
touchiest  judge  should  win,  provided  the  poet  who  wrote  it  was 
also  easily  offended  and  needed  the  money  badly. 

"And  as  for  the  poor  poets"  there  should  be  something  to  keep 
them  out  of  contests — and  also  out  of  any  other  literary  activity. — jh.l 


32  T  li  c    L  i  1 1 1  c    R  e  V  i  e  zv 


You  Do  Us  Too  Much  Honor 

Louis  PutckUs,  Cambridge,  Mass: 

....Vou  see  it  is  a  fact  that  your  "art  for  art's  sake"  cannot 
exist  without  supporters:  nothing  is  free  from  economic  conditions 
which  are  the  creators  and  destroyers  of  people's  tendencies  and 
deeds. 

Although  I  appreciate  your  surprising  efforts,  I  must  confess  that 
I  cannot  yet  agree  with  your  dictum  as  to  "the  two  most  important 
radical  organs  of  contemporary  literature."  Until  you  strike  your 
roots  deeper  you  cannot  soar  so  high.  As  for  me,  I  am  in  touch 
already  with  many  other  radical  magazines  in  English  and  in  other 
languages.  Radicalism  .does  not  consist  in  vers  libre  which  mur- 
murs about  green  grass,  soft  kisses,  clinging  limbs,  ecstasy  and 
faintness,  the  surprises  of  passionate  intercourse.  There  is  too  much 
of  such  senual  poetry:  Solomon  long  ago  played  the  changes  on 
that  theme.  Such  poems  come  perilously  near  the  emanations  of 
diseased  sexual  appetites.  There  is  neither  life  nor  originality  in 
them.  When  I  read  "green  grass,"  I  know  that  I  am  close  upon 
"clinging  limbs."  Drink  deeper  of  the  Pierian  fount;  don't  disturb 
the  grasshoppers! 

I  think  that  The  Little  Review  must  scatter  more  sensible  seed 
in  the  future  and  throw  away  the  tares.  It  will  do  better,  I  believe, 
to  take  for  its  province:  Literature,  Life,  Science;  all  the  fine  arts 
are  too  much  for  its  scope;  each  has  its  own  organs. 

Still  The  Little  Review  is  doing  good.  Long  life  to  it  and  may 
it  do  better! 

[You  see,  we  said  that  The  Egoist  and  The  Little  Review  are 
radical  organs  of  contemporary  literature.  That's  all:  not  economic, 
social,  or  religious.  As  we  have  stated  a  number  of  times:  since 
all  the  arts  are  from  the  same  source  we  are  not  getting  out  of  our 
province  or  making  our  scope  too  wide  by  keeping  to  Art.  Your 
advice  about  reducing  to  Literature,  Life,  Science,  is  a  great  com- 
pliment to  our  scope,  but — well,  for  the  present  we  can't  take  up 
such  limited  arfd  special  subjects  as  Life,  or  such  obvious  and  un- 
taxing ones  as  Science. — jh.] 


The    Little    Review  33 


The  Little  Review  Book  Shop 

You  may  order  any  book  you  want  from  us  and  we  have  the 
facihties  for  dehvering  or  maiHng  it  to  you  at  whatever  time 
you  specify. 

You  may  come  in  and  look  over  our  stock  and  take  your 
selections  with  you. 

Some  of  the  books  you  w-ill  want  are  these : 

James  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man.    $1.50 

Nexo's  Pelle  the  Conqueror.    Four  volumes,  $5.00 

Gilbert  Cannan's  Mendel.    $1.50 

Remain  Rolland's  Jean  Christophe.    Three  volumes,  $5.00 

D.   H.   Lawrence's  Prussian   Officer  and   Twilight  in  Italy, 
$1.50  each. 

Ethel  Sidgwick's  Promise  and  Succession.    Each  $1.50 

Ezra  Pound's  Memoir  of  Gaudier-Brseska.    $3.50 

The  Imagist  Anthology,  1917.     75  cents 

Verharen's  Love  Poems,  translated  by  Flint,  Arthur  Symons, 
etc.    $1.50 

Willard    Huntington    Wright's    Modern    Painting    and    The 
Creative  Will.    $2.50  and  $1.50 

Tagore's  Reminiscences  and  Personality.    Each  $1.50 

The  complete  works  of  Anatole  France.     Per  volume,  $1.25 

The  Works  of  Henri  Fabre.    6  volumes.    Each  $1.50 

The  Works  of  Mark  Twain.     25  volumes,  $25.00 

Creative  Intelligence,  by  John  Dewey  and  others.    $2.00 

g's  Chicago  Poems.    $1.25 


34  The    Little    Revieiv 

Joseph  Conrad's  The  Shadozij  Line.    $1.35 

Maurice  Hewlett's  Thorgils.    $1.35 

Andrevev's  The  Little  Angel,  The  Crushed  Floiver,  etc.    $1.35 
and  $1.50 

Kuprin's  A  Slave  Soul.    $1.50 

TchekofF  The  Kiss,  The  Darling,  The  Duel,  The  Black  MonU. 
Each  $1.25 

Gorky's  Confession  and  Twenty-Six  Men  and  a  Girl.     $1.35' 

Dostoevsky's  The  Eternal  Husband.    $1.50 

Gogol's  Dead  Souls,  Taras  Biilba,  The  Mantle.    $1.40,  $1.35 

Sologub's  The  Szveet-Scented  Name.    $1.50 

Artzibashef's   Sanine,    The   Millionaire,    The  Breaking-Point. 
Each  $1.50 

The  W'orks  of  Freud  and  Jung  4 

Max  Eastman's  Journalism  versus  Art,   Understanding  Ger^ 
many.    $1.00  and  $1.25 

John    Cowper    Powy's    Confessions,    Suspended    Judgments. 
$1.50  and  $2.00 

Paul  Geraldy's  The  War,  Madame.    75  cents 

Amy  Lowell's  Men,  Women  and  Ghosts.    $1.25 

H.  D's  Sea  Garden.    75  cents  ;. 

D.  H.  Lawrence's  Amores.    $1.25  •■ 

W.  W.  Gibson's  Livelihood.    $1.25 

The  Stories  of  A,  Neil  Lyons.    Each  $1.25 

Sherwood  Anderson's  Windy  McPherson's  Son.     $1.40  '.  . . . 

J,  Mary  MacLane.    $1.40 


The    Little    R  e  v  i  e  iv 


35 


The  Little  Review 

THE  JULY  NUMBER  will  have  poems  by  T.  S.  Eliot;  a 
)ialogue  by  Ezra  Pound:  "Aux  Etuves  de  Wiesbaden";  and 
everal  other  things  of  interest. 

THE  AUGUST  NUMBER  will  have  at  least  seven  more 
loems  by  Mr.  Yeats,  an  Editorial  and  Notes  on  Books  by  Mr. 
*ound,  etc.,  etc. 

PLEASE  SUBSCRIBE  and  help  us  to  make  The  Little  Re- 
iew  a  power. 


Subscription  Form 

Please  send  me  The  Little  Reviezu  for 
month  beginning 

the  twelve- 
,  for  which 

I  enclose  $1.50 

Name    

Address      

1 

THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 
31  West  14th  Street 
NEW  YORK  CITY 

COLONY  ART  SHOP 

Artists'  Materials 

giiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuitiiinHiinHiiiiniiiiiiiuiniiiiiHiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiuiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii»  * 

I  I       I 

I  Oil  ana  Abater  Colors 

1  Brusnes  ana  Canvass 

I  Smocks  to  Oraer 

I  Interior  ana  Exterior  Decorating 

I  Paper  lianging 

I  Polisnmg  and  Rennisning 

I  of  Wood  Work 

I  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiii^ 


ADOLPH   KLAFF  I 

132  Sixtk  Ave.,  NEW  YORK  CITY  Chelsea  1285 


STATEMENT  OF  OWNEllSHir,  MANAGEMENT,  CIRCULATION.  ETC.,  Bl 

yUIKED  BY   THE  ACT  OF  CONGKESS.   OF  AUGUST  24,   I'Jl'J. 
Of  THE  LITTLE  REVIEW,  pu'blished  monthly  at  New  York,  N.  Y.,  -for  Api 
1st,  iyi7.     State  of  New  York,  County  of  New  York — ss. 

Before  me,  a  Notary  I'ublic  iu  and  for  the  State  and  county  aforesaid,  pe 
sonally  appeared  Margaret  C.  Andersou,  who  haviug  been  duly  sworn  accor 
ing  to  law,  deposes  aud  savs  that  she  is  the  Publisher,  Editor,  Owner,  Bu.sine 
Manager  of  THE  LITTLE  REVIEW,  and  that  the  following  is,  to  the  btst 
her  knowledge  and  belief,  a  true  statement  of  the  ownership,  manageme! 
(and  if  a  dally  paper,  the  circulation),  etc.,  of  the  aforesaid  publication  t$ 
the  date  shown  in  the  above  caption,  required  by  the  Act  of  August  '24,  191 
embodied  In  section  443,  Postal  Laws  aud  Regulations,  printed  on  the  rever 
of  this  form ;  to  wit : 

1.  That  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  edltc 
and  business  managers  are: 

Publisher,  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  31  W.  Fourteenth  St.,  New  York;  Edlt< 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  31  \V.  Fourteenth  St.,  New  Y'ork ;  Managing  Editc 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  31  W.  Fourteenth  St.,  New  York;  Business  Manag« 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  31  W.  Fourteenth  St.,  New  York. 

2.  That  the  owner  is,  Margaret  C.  Anderson. 

3.  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  sorurity  holde 
owning  or  holding  1  per  cent,  or  more  of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgagf 
or  other  securities  are:  None. 

4.  That  the  two  paragraphs  next  above,  giving  the  names  of  owners,  stoc 
holders,  and  security  holders,  if  any,  contain  not  only,  the  list  of  stockholde 
and  security  holders  as  they  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  but  ali 
in  cases  where  the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appears  upon  the  books 
the  company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  t! 
person  or  corporation  for  whom  such  trustee  is  acting,  is  given;  also  that  t' 
said  two  paragraphs  contain  statements  embracing  afliant's  full  knowledge  &i 
belief  as  to  the  circumstances  and  conditions  under  which  stockholders  ai 
sf'cnrlty  holders  who  do  not  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  i 
trustees,  hold  stock  and  securities  In  a  capacity  other  than  that  of  a  bona  fli 
owner;  and  hhis  afllant  has  no  reason  to  believe  that  any  other  person  assod 
tion  or  corporation,  has  any  interest  direct  or  indirect  in  the  said  stoc 
bonds,  or  other  securities  than  as  so  stated  by  her. 

MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON.  ' 
Sworn  to  and  snscrlbed  before  me  this  0th  day  of  April  1017. 

WALTER  HEARN.   Notary  Public. 
(My  commission   expires  March  30th,   1018.) 


THE  ARTISTS'  GUILD 

A   NATIONAL   ORGANIZATION  INCORPORATED   ON   A 
"NOT   FOR  PROFIT  BASIS." 


Paintings,  Sculpture 

AND 

Handwrought  Objects 

As  security  for  the  purchaser  and  to  insure  merit,  all  works  are 
approred  by  a  jury. 


Exquisisite  and  Rare  Gifts 


The  Artists  and  Craft  Workers*  own  organization 


GALLERIES,  EXHIBITION  AND  SALESROOMS 
FINE  ARTS  BUILDING  CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS 


THE    PAGAN 

is  something  like  The  Masses  and  The  Little 
Review  because  it  contains  original  stories, 
plays,  essays,  also  translation  from  the  Europ- 
eans; as  well  as  drawings  and  etchings. 

But  how  is  it  different? 

Buy  a  copy;  and  see.      $1.50  a  year;  15  cents  a  cop^ 

THE   PAGEN   PUBLISHING  COMPANY 

174  CENTER  STREET 
NEW  YORK  CITY 


TINY  TIM  MAKES  CANDY. 

TINY   TIM   MAKES   GOOD  CANDY. 

TINY   TIM   MAKES   PURE   CANDY. 

TINY  TIM  ORIGINATES  EVERY  VARIETY. 

VARIETY  IS  THE  SPICE  OF  LIFE. 

P.  S.  Mary  Elizabeth,  Martha  Washington,  Park  & 
Tilford,  Huylers,  and  the  Mirror  Stores  make  good 
candy,  but  they  haven't  any  thing  on  TINY  TIM 
for  originality. 

(P.  S.  2nd.)  TIM'S  place  is  small  and  hard  to  find. 
Tt  is  hiding  out  on  Sixth  Avenue,  on  the  comer  of 
Milligan  Place,  between  10th  and  Uth  Streets.  If 
you  ever  find  the  place  remember  the  special  direc- 
tions for  opening  the  door.  Grasp  the  handle  firmly 
— push  to  your  right  steadily,  NOTE :  The  door 
slides   North. 

/^.  .9.  (3rd.)  TIM  or  Mrs.  TIM  and  the  candy 
will  probably  be  there.     If  not,  call  again. 


Hello 


Huck 


99 


f         P  ECALL  that  golden  day  when  you  first  read  "  Huck  Finn  "? 
"^'w  rv  How  your  mother  said,  "  For  goodness'  sake,  stop  laughing 

aloud  over  that  book.     You  sound  so  silly."     But  you  couldn't  stop  laughing. 

Today  when  you  read  "Huckleberry  Finn"  you  will  not  laugh  so  much.  You  will  chuckle 
often,  but  you  will  also  want  to  weep.  The  deep  humanity  o(  it — the  pathos,  that  you 
never  saw,  as  a  boy,  will  appeal  to  you  now.  You  were  too  busy  laughing  to  notice  the 
limpid  purity  of  the  master's  style. 


When  Mark  Twain  first  wrote  "  Huckleberry  Finn"  this  land  was  swept  with  a  gale 
of  laughter      When  he  wrote  "Ttie  Innocents  Abroad  "  even  Europe  laughed  at  it  itselt. 

But  one  day  there  appeared  a  new  book  from  his  pen,  so  spiritual,  so  true,  so  lofty  that 
those  who  did  not  know  him  well  weie  amazed.  "  Joan  of  Arc  "  was  the  work  of  a  poet— 
a  historian— a  seer.  Mark  Twain  was  all  of  these.  His  was  not  the  light  laughter  of  a 
moment's  fun.  but  the  whimsical  humor  that  made  the  tragedy  of  life  more  bearable. 


A  Real  American 

Mark  Twain  was  a  steamboat  pilot. 
He  was  a  searcher  for  gold  in  the  far 
West.  He  was  a  printer.  He  worked 
bitterly  hard.  .Ml  this  without  a  glim- 
mer of  the  great  destiny  that  lay  before 
him.  Then,  with  the  opening  of  the 
great  wide  West,  his  genius  bloomed. 

His  fame  spread  through  the  nation. 
It  flew  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  until 
his  work  was  translated  into  strange 
tongues.  From  then  on,  the  path  of 
fame  lay  straight  to  the  high  places. 
At  the  height  of  his  fame  Svt  lost  all 
his  money.  He  was  heavily  in  debt, 
but  though  60  years  old,  he  started 
afresh  and  paid  every  cent.  It  was  the 
last  heroic  touch  that  drew  him  close 
to  the  hearts  of  his  countrymen. 

The  world  has  asked  is  there  an  Ameri- 
can literature?  Mark  Twain  is  the  an- 
swer. He  is  the  heart,  the  spirit  of 
America.  From  his  poor  and  struggling 
boyhood  to  his  glorious,  splendid  old 
age,  he  remained  as  simple,  as  demo- 
cratic as  the  plainest  of  our  forefathers. 

He  was,  oi  all  Americans,  the  most  Ameri- 
can. Free  in  soul,  and  dreaming  of  high 
things — brave  in  the  face  of  trouble — and  al- 
ways ready  to  laugh.    That  was  Mark  Twain. 

iRPER  &  BROTHERS,  New  York 


The  Price  Goes  Up 

OC  Vfll  ITMCQ    Novels— Stories  —  Humor 
ZD   VULUlYlta   Essays— Travel  —  History 

This  is  Mark  Twain's  own  set.  Thisis  the  set  he 
wanted  in  the  home  of  each  of  those  who  love  him. 
Because  he  asked  it.  Harpers  have  worked  to  make 
a  perfect  set  at  a  reduced  price. 

Before  the  war  we  had  a  contract  price  for  paper, 
so  we  could  sell  this  set  of  Mark  Twain  at  half  price. 

Send  the  Coupon  Without  Money 


L.  R    i 
HARPER  & 
BROTHERS 

Frankliii  Sq.,  N.  T. 


The  hst  oi  the  edition  is  in  sight.  The 
price  uf  paper  has  gone  up.  There  can 
be  no  mure  Mark  Twain  at  the  present 
price.  There  never  a^ain  will  be 
any  more  Mark  Twain  at  the  pres- 
ent price.  Get  the  25  volumes 
now,  while  you  can.  Every 
American  has  got  to  have  a  /  Send  me,  all  charges 
set  of  Mark  Twain  in  his  /  prepaid,  a  set  of  Mark 
home.  Get  yours  now  /  Twain's  works  in  25 
and  save  money  /   volumes,   illustrated,   bound 

Your  children  want  /  '"  handsome  green  cloth, 
Mark  Twain.  Ton  /  stamped  in  gold,  gold  tops  and 
want  him.  Send  /^  untrimmed  edges.  If  not  satisfac- 
(his  roiipon  to        /  torj',  I  will  return  them  at  your  ex- 

jay „„„. ■    /  pense.   Otherwise  I  will  send  you  $1,00 

r   within  5  days  and  12.00  a  month  for  12 

months,  thus  getting  the  benefit  of  your 

half-price  sale.  Little  Review 

^Name . 


J 


Special  Offer 

AMES  JOYCE'S  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a    Yourtg 
Man  and  a  year's  subscription  to  The  Little  Review  for  $2.50. 

We  are  glad  to  announce  that  through  the  cour- 
tesy of  Mr.  Huebsch  we  are  able  to  make  the  follow- 
ing unusual  oflfer,  open  to  any  one  who  sends  in  a 
subscription  (or  a  renewal)  to  The  Little  Review: 

Mr.  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young 
Man,  the  most  important  and  beautiful  piece  of 
novel  writing  to  be  found  in  English  today,  retails 
for  $1.50.  The  subscription  price  of  The  Little  Re- 
view is  $1.50.  We  will  cut  the  latter  to  $1.00,  for  this 
special  offer,  and  you  may  have  the  book  and  the 
subscription  for  $2.50.  Or  you  may  have  Mr.  Joyce's  ^ 
Dubliners  instead.  | 

1 


ORDER  FORM 

"A    PORTRAIT    OF    THE  , 

ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  MAN"  | 

'Please  send  me — cop of 

A  PORTRAIT  OF  THE  ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  MAN 
by  James  Joyce,  published  by  Mr.  B.  W.  Huebsch,  for  which  1 


enclose- 
Name— 


Addr 


Orders,  accompanied  b\)  remitlance  should  be  aenl  to 
THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 
31   West  14th  Street,  New  York  City 


i 


f- 


i. 


I 


S? 

^ 


t 


t'i 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A    MAGAZINE    OF    THE   ARTS 

MAKING   NO    COiMPROMISE    WITH   THE  PUBUC   TASTE 


Margaret  C.  Andermn 
Publisher 


JULY,  1917 

Imaginary  Letters,  IIL 
Poems: 

Le  Dirccteur 

Melange  adultere  de  tout 

Lune  de  Miel 

The  Hippopotamus 
Aux  Etuves  de  Weisbaden 
Three  Nightpieces 
Improvisations 
Poet's  Heart 
The  Reader  Critic 


Windham  Leivis 
T,  S,  EUoi 


Ezra  Pound 

John  Rodker 

Louis  Cilmore 

Maxwell  Bodenheim 


Published  Monthly 

MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON.  Editor 

EZRA  POUNE).  Foreign  Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street 

NEW  YORK  CITY 

15  G'nts  a  copy  $1,50  ft  Yew 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  Postoffic*,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


The  Stradivarius  of  Pianos 


sm^m 


313  FIFTH  AVENUE 

NEW  YORK 


Eugene  Hutchinson 


FINE  ARTS  BUILDING, 


CHICAGO,  ILI 


The  Little  Review 

VOL.  IV.  JULY  1917  NO.  3 

Imaginary  Letters 

(Six  Letters  of  William  Bland  Bum  to  his  Wife) 

Wyndham  Lewis 

The  Code  of  a  Herdsman 

(A  set  of  rules  sent  by  Benjamin  Richard  Wing  to  his  young 
friend  Philip  Seddon  inclosed  with  a  letter.  Under  the  above  title 
now  edited.) 

(1)  Never  maltreat  your  own  intelligence  with  parables.  It 
is  a  method  of  herd-hypnotism.  Do  not  send  yourself  to  sleep 
with  the  rhythm  of  the  passes  that  you  make.=As  an  example 
of  herd-hypnotism,  German  literature  is  so  virulently  allegorized 
that  the  German  really  never  knows  whether  he  is  a  Kangaroo  a 
Scythian,  or  his  own  sweet  self  .=You,  however,  are  a  Herdsman. 
That  is  surely  Parable  enough! 

(2)  Do  not  admit  cleverness,  in  any  form,  into  your  life. 
Observe  the  accomplishment  of  some  people's  signatures !  It  is  the 
herd-touch. 

(3)  Exploit  Stupidity. = Introduce  a  flatness,  where  it  is  re- 
quired into  your  commerce.  Dull  your  eye  as  you  fix  it  on  a  dull 
face.=Why  do  you  think  George  Borrow  used  such  idiotic  cliches 
as  "The  beams  of  the  descending  luminary — ?"  He  was  a  great 
writer  and  knew  what  he  was  doing.=:Mock  the  herd  perpetually 
with  the  grimance  of  its  own  garrulity  or  deadness.  If  it  gets  out 
of  hand  and  stampedes  towards  you,  leap  on  to  the  sea  of  mangy 
backs  until  the  sea  is  still.  That  is:  cast  your  mask  aside,  and 
spring  above  them.     They  cannot  see  or  touch  anything  above 

Gjpyright,   1917,  by  Margaret  C.  Anderson. 


4  T  h  e    L  i  t  t  I  c    R  e  V  i  e  zv 

them :  they  have  never  realized  that  their  backs — or  rather  their 
tops — exist !  They  will  think  that  you  have  vanished  into 
Heaven. 

(4)  As  to  language :  eschew  all  cliches  implying  a  herd  person- 
ality. Never  allow  such  terms  as  Top-Hole,  Priceless,  or  Doggo  to 
pass  your  lips.  Go  to  the  Dictionary  if  you  want  an  epithet.  If  you 
feel  eloquent,  use  that  moment  to  produce  a  cliche  of  your  own. 
Cherish  your  personal  vocabulary,  however  small  it  is.  Use  your 
own  epithet  as  though  it  were  used  by  a  whole  nation,  if  people 
would  have  no  good  reason  for  otherwise  accepting  it. 

Examples  of  personal  epithets. 

That  man  is  abysmal. 

That  is  an  abysmal  book. 

It  zvas  prestigious !  [j^  ,  .         ^i     t-        i 

Here  comes  that  sinister  bird!  f  Borrowed  from  the  French. 

He  is  a  sinister  card.  (Combination  of  French  and  1890  Slang.) 

He  has  a  great  deal  of  sperm. 

I  like  a  fellow  with  as  much  sperm  as  that. 

Borrow  from  all  sides  mannerisms  of  callings  or  classes  to 
enrich  your  personal  bastion  of  language.  Borrow  from  the 
pulpit,  from  the  clattering  harangue  of  the  auctioneer,  the  law- 
yer's technicality,  the  pomposity  of  politicians. =Borrow  grunts 
from  the  fiisherman,  solecisms  from  the  inhabitant  of  Merioneth. 
="He  is  a  preux,  ah,  yes-a-preux !"  You  can  say — "ah- 
yes-a-preux"  as  though  it  were  one  word,  accent  on  the  *'yes." 

(5)  In  accusing  yourself,  stick  to  the  Code  of  the  Mountain. 
But  crime  is  alien  to  a  Herdsman's  nature. 

(6)  Yourself  must  be  your  Caste. 

(7)  Cherish  and  develop,  side  by  side,  your  six  most  constant 
indications  of  different  personalities.  You  will  then  acquire  the 
potentiality  of  six  men.  Leave  your  front  door  one  day  at  B.: 
The  next  march  down  the  street  as  E.  A  variety  of  clothes, 
hats  especially,  are  of  help  in  this  wider  dramatisation  of  your- 
self. Never  fall  into  the  vulgarity  of  being  or  assuming  yourself 
to  be  one  ego.  Each  trench  must  have  another  one  behind  it. 
Each  single  self — that  you  manage  to  be  at  any  given  time — must 
have  five  at  least  indifferent  to  it.  You  must  have  a  power  of 
indifference  of  five  to  one.  All  the  greatest  actions  in  the  world 
have  been  five  parts  out  of  six  impersonal  in  the  impulse  of  their 
origin.  To  follow  this  principle  you  need  only  cultivate  your 
memory.     You  will  avoid  being  the  blind  man  of  any  moment. 


The    Little    R  e  v  i  e  iv 


B  will  see  what  is  hidden  to  D.=  (Who  were  Turgenev's  "Six 
Unknown"?     Himself.) 

(8)  Never  lie.  You  cannot  be  too  fastidious  about  the 
truth.  If  you  must  lie,  at  least  see  that  you  lie  so  badly  that  it 
would  not  deceive  a  pea-hen. — The  world  is,  however,  full  of 
pea-hens. 

(9)  Spend  some  of  your  spare  time  every  day  in  hunting  your 
weaknesses,  caught  from  commerce  with  the  herd,  as  methodi- 
cally, solemnly  and  vindictively  as  a  monkey  his  fleas.  You  will 
find  yourself  swarming  with  them  while  you  are  surrounded  by 
humanity.  But  you  must  not  bring  them  up  on  the  mountain.  = 
If  you  can  get  another  man  to  assist  you — one,  that  is,  honest 
enough  not  to  pass  his  own  on  to  you — that  is  a  good  arrange- 
ment. 

(10)  Do  not  play  with  political  notions,  aristocratisms  or 
the  reverse,  for  that  is  a  compromise  with  the  herd.  Do  not 
allow  yourself  to  imagine  "a  fine  herd  though  still  a  herd." 
There  is  no  fine  herd.  The  cattle  that  call  themselves  "gentle- 
men" you  will  observe  to  be  a  little  cleaner.  It  is  merely  cun- 
ning and  produced  with  a  product  called  soap.  But  you  will 
find  no  serious  difference  between  them  and  those  vast  dismal 
herds  they  avoid.  Some  of  them  are  very  dangerous  and  treach- 
erous.=:Be  on  your  guard  with  the  small  herd  of  gentlemen ! 

(11)  You  will  meet  with  this  pitfall:  at  moments,  sur- 
rounded by  the  multitude  of  unsatisfactory  replicas,  you  will 
grow  confused  by  a  similarity  bringing  them  so  near  to  us.= 
You  will  reason,  where,  from  some  points  of  view,  the  differ- 
ence is  so  slight,  whether  that  delicate  margin  is  of  the  immense 
importance  that  we  hold  it  to  be:  tlie  only  thing  of  importance 
in  fact.=That  group  of  men  talking  by  the  fire  in  your  club 
(you  will  still  remain  a  member  of  your  club),  that  party  at  the 
theatre,  look  good  enough,  you  will  say.  Their  skins  are  fresh, 
they  are  well-made,  their  manners  are  good.  You  must  then 
consider  what  they  really  are.  On  closer  inspection  you  knoWj 
from  unpleasant  experience,  that  they  are  nothing  but  limita- 
tions and  vulgarities  of  the  most  irritating  description.  The 
devil  Nature  has  painted  these  sepulchres  pink,  and  covered  them 
with  a  blasphemous  Bond  Street  distinction.  Matter  that  has 
not  sufficient  mind  to  permeate  it  grows,  as  you  know,  gangrenous 
and  rotten.  Animal  high  spirits,  a  little,  but  easily  exhausted, 
goodness,  is  all  that  they  can  claim. 


The    Little    R  e  r  i  e  zv 


What  seduced  you  from  your  severity  for  a  moment  was  the 
same  thing  as  a  dull  woman's  good-looks. =This  is  probably 
what- you  will  have  in  front  of  you.=On  the  other  hand,  every- 
where you  will  find  a  few  people,  who,  although  not  a  mountain 
people  are  not  herd.=They  may  be  herdsmen  gone  mad 
through  contact  with  the  herd,  and  strayed  :  or  through  inadequate 
energy  for  our  task  they  may  be  found  there:  or  they  ma^  be  a 
hybrid,  or  they  may  even  be  herdsmen  temporarily  bored 
with  the  mountain.     (I  have  a  pipe  below  myself  sometimes.) 

There  are  numerous  "other  denominations."  Treat  them  as 
brothers.  Employ  them,  as  opportunity  offers,  as  auxiliaries  in 
your  duties.  Their  society  and  help  will  render  your  task  less 
arduous. 

(12)  As  to  women:  wherever  you  can,  substitute  the  society 
of  men.=:Treat  them  kindly,  for  they  suffer  from  the  herd, 
although  of  it,  and  have  many  of  the  same  contempts  as  yourself. 
They  are  a  sort  of  bastard  mountain  people.^There  must  be 
somewhere  a  female  mountain,  a  sort  of  mirage-mountain.  I 
should  like  to  visit  it.=But  women,  and  the  processes  for  which 
they  exist,  are  the  arch  conjuring  trick :  and  they  have  the  cheap 
mystery  and  a  good  deal  of  the  slipperiness,  of  the  conjuror. 
=: Sodomy  should  be  avoided,  as  far  as  possible.  It  tends  to 
add  to  the  abominable  confusion  already  existing. 

(13)  Wherever  you  meet  a  shyness  that  comes  out  of  soli- 
tude, (although  all  solitude  is  not  anti-herd)  naiveness,  and  a 
patent  absence  of  contamination,  the  sweetness  of  mountain 
water,  any  of  the  signs  of  goodness,  you  must  treat  that  as  sacred, 
as  portions  of  the  mountain. 

However  much  you  suffer  for  it,  you  must  defend  and  exalt 
it.  On  the  other  hand,  every  child  is  not  simple,  and  every 
woman  is  not  weak.=In  many  cases  to  champion  a  female  would 
be  like  springing  to  the  rescue  of  a  rhinoceros  when  you  notice 
that  it  had  been  attacked  by  a  flea.  Chivalrous  manners, s  again, 
with  many  women  are  like  tiptoeing  into  a  shed  where  an  ox 
is  sleeping.^Some  children,  too,  rival  in  nastiness  their  parents. 
But  you  have  your  orders  in  this  matter.  Indifference  where 
there  should  be  nothing  but  the  ivhole  eagerness  or  compunc- 
tion of  your  being,  is  the  worst  crime  in  the  mountain's  eyes. 

(14)  Conquests  have  usually  been  divided  from  their  an- 
titheses, and  defeats  from  conquests,  by  some  casual  event.  Had 
Moscow  not  possessed  a  governor  ready  to  burn  the  Kremlin 


The    Little    R  e  v  i  e  zv 


and  the  hundreds  of  palaces  accumulated  there,  peace  would  have 
been  signed  by  the  Czar  at  Bonaparte's  entrance. =Had  the  Lias- 
cans  persevered  for  ten  days  against  Cortes,  the  Aztecs  would 
never  have  been  troubled.  Yet  Montezuma  was  right  to  remain  in- 
active, paralysed  by  prophecy.  Napoleon  was  right  when  he  felt 
that  his  star  was  at  last  a  useless  one.  He  had  drained  it  of  all 
its  astonishing  effulgence.  =:The  hair's  breadth  is  only  the  virtuos- 
ity of  Fate,  guiding  you  along  imaginary  precipices. =And  all  the 
detail  is  make-believe,  anyway.  Watch  your  star  soberly  and 
without  comment.    Do  not  trouble  about  the  paste-board  cliffs ! 

(15)  There  are  very  stringent  regulations  about  the  herd 
keeping  off  the  sides  of  the  mountain.  In  fact  your  chief  func- 
tion is  to  prevent  their  encroaching.  Some,  in  moments  of  bore- 
dom or  vindictiveness,  are  apt  to  rriake  rushes  for  the  higher 
regions.  Their  instinct  always  fortunately  keeps  them  in  crowds 
or  bands,  and  their  trespassing  is  soon  noticed.  Those  traps  and 
numerous  devices  you  have  seen  on  the  edge  of  the  plain  are 
for  use,  of  course,  in  the  last  resort.  Do  not  apply  them  pre- 
maturely.=Not  very  many  herdsmen  lose  their  lives  in  dealing 
with  the  herds. 

(16)  Contradict  yourself.  In  order  to  live,  you  must  remain 
broken  up. 

(17)  The  teacher  does  not  have  to  he,  although  he  has  to 
know:  He  is  the  mind  imagining,  not  the  executant.  The  ex- 
ecutant, the  young,  svelt,  miraculous  athelete,  the  strapping  vir- 
tuoso, really  has  to  give  the  illusion  of  a  perfection. =Do  not  ex- 
pect me  to  keep  in  sufficiently  good  training  to  perform  the  feats 
I  recommend. =1  usually  remain  up  on  the  mountain. 

( 18)  Above  all  this  sad  commerce  with  the  herd,  let  something 
veritably  remain  "un  peu  sur  la  montagne."  Always  come  down 
with  masks  and  thick  clothing  to  the  valley  where  we  work. 

Stagnant  gasses  from  these  Yahooesque  and  rotten  herds  are 
more  dangerous  often  than  -the  wandering  cylinders  that  emit 
them.  See  you  are  not  caught  in  them  without  your  mask.=But 
once  returned  to  our  adorable  height,  forget  your  sallow  task: 
with  great  freedom  indulge  your  love.=The  terrible  processions 
beneath  are  not  of  our  making,  and  are  without  our  pity.  Our 
sacred  hill  is  a  volcanic  heaven.  But  the  result  of  its  violence  is 
peace. =:The  unfortunate  surge  below,  even,  has  moments  of 
peace. 

(Next  letter  will  appear  in  August  number.) 


The    Little    R  c  z'  i  e  IV 

Poems 

T.  S.  Eliot 
Le  Directeur 

Malheur  a  la  malheureuse  Tamise ! 

Qui  coule  si  pres  du  Spectateur. 

Le  directeur 

Conservateur 

Du  Spectateur 

Empeste  la  brise. 

Les  actionnaires 

Reactionnaires 

Du  Spectateur 

Conservateur 

Bras  dessus  bras  dessous 

Font  des  tours  . 

A  pas  de  loup. 

Dans  un  egout 

Une  petite  fille 

En  guenilles 

Camarde 

Regarde 

Le  directeur 

Du  Spectateur 

Conservateur 

Et  creve  d'amour. 


The     Little    Review 


Melange  adultere  de  tout 

En  Amerique,  professeur; 

En  Angleterre,  journaliste ; 

C'est  a  grands  pas  et  en  sueur 

Que  vous  suivrez  a  peine  ma  piste. 

En  Yorkshire,  conf erencier ; 

A  Londres,  un  peu  banquier, 

Vous  me  paierez  bien  la  tete. 

C'est  a  Paris  que  je  me  coiffe 

Casque  noir  de  jemenfoutiste. 

En  Allemagne,  philosophe 

Surexcite  par  Emporheben 

Au  grand  air  de  Bergsteigleben ; 

J'erre  toujours  de-ci  de-la 

A  divers  coups  de  tra  la  la 

De  Damas  jusqua  Omaha. 

Je  celebrai  mon  jour  de  fete 

Dans  une  oasis  d'Afrique 

Vetu  d'une  peau  de  girafe. 

On  montrera  mon  cenotaphe 

Aux  cotes  brulantes  de  Mozambique. 


Lune  de  Miel 

lis  ont  vu  les  Pays-Bas,  ils  rentrent  a  Terre  Haute; 

Mais  une  riuit  d'ete,  les  voici  a  Ravenne, 

A  I'aise  entre  deux  draps,  chez  deux  centaines  de  punaises; 

La  sueur  aestivale,  et  une  forte  odeur  de  chienne. 

Ils  restent  sur  le  dos  ecartant  les  genoux 

De  quatre  jambes  molles  tout  gonflees  de  morsures. 

On  releve  le  drap  pour  mieux  egratigner. 

Moins  d'une  lieue  d'ici  est  Saint  Apollinaire 


10  T  h  c    L  i  t  t  I  c    R  e  v  i  e  w 

In  Classe'  basilique  connue  des  amateurs 
De  chapitaux  d'acanthe  que  tournoie  le  vent. 

lis  vont  prendre  le  train  de  huit  heures 

Prolonger  leurs  miseres  de  Padoue  a  Milan 

Ou  se  trouvent  le  Cene,  et  un  restaurant  pas  cher. 

Lui  pense  aux  pourboires,  et  redige  son  bilan. 

lis  auront  vu  la  Suisse  et  traverse  la  France 

Et  Saint  Apollinaire,  raide  et  ascetique, 

\'ieille  usine  desaffectee  de  Dieu,  tient  encore 

Dans  ses  pierres  ecroulantes  la  forme  precise  de  Byzance. 

The  Hippopotamus 

The  broad  backed  hippopotamus 
Rests  on  his  belly  in  the  mud ; 
Although  he  seems  so  firm  to  us 
Yet  he  is  merely  flesh  and  blood. 

Flesh-and-blood  is  weak  and  frail, 
Susceptible  to  nervous  shock; 
While  the  True  Church  can  never  fail 
For  it  is  based  upon  a  rock. 

The  hippo's  feeble  steps  may  err 

In  compassing  material  ends, 

While  the  True  Church  need  never  stir 

To  gather  in  its  dividends. 

The  potamus  can  never  reach 
The  mango  on  the  mango-tree-; 
But  fruits  of  pomegranate  and  peach 
Refresh  the  Church  from  over  sea. 


T  h  e    L  i  t  t  I  e    R  e  V  i  e  IV  11 


At  mating  time  the  hippo's  voice 
Betrays  inflexions  hoarse  and  odd. 
But  every  week  we  hear  rejoice 
The  Church,  at  being  one  with  God. 

The  hippopotamus's  day 

Is  past  in  sleep ;  at  night  he  hunts ; 

God  works  in  a  mysterious  way — 

The  Church  can  sleep  and  feed  at  once. 

I  saw  the  potamus  take  wing 
Ascending  from  the  damp   savannas, 
And  quiring  angels  round  him  sing 
The  praise  of  God,  in  loud  hosannas. 

Blood  of  the  Lamb  shall  wash  him  clean 
And  him  shall  heavenly  arms  enfold, 
Among  the  saints  he  shall  be  seen 
Performing  on  a  harp  of  gold. 

He  shall  be  washed  as  white  as  snow. 
By  all  the  martyr'd  virgins  kist, 
While  the  True  Church  remains  below 
Wrapt  in  the  old  miasmal  mist. 


12  T  It  c    L  i  t  t  I  c    K 


I  e 


Aux  Etuves  de  Weisbaden 
A.  D.  1451 

Ezra  Pound 

rj^HEY  entered  between  tivo  fir  trees.  A  path  of  irregular 
-i  flat  pentagonal  stones  led  along  betzveen  shrubbery.  Halting 
by  the  central  court  in  a  sort  of  narrow  gallery,  the  large  tank  was 
below  them,  and  in  it  some  thirty  or  fort\  blond  nere'ids  for  the 
most  part  well-muscled,  zvith  smooth  flaxen  hair  and  smooth 
faces — a  generic  resemblance.  A  slender  brown  zvench  sat  at  one 
end  listlessly  dabbling  her  feet  from  the  spring-board.  Here  the', 
zvater  was  deeper. 

The  rest  of  them,  all  being  clothed  in  zvhite  linen  shifts  held\ 
up  by  one  strap  over  the  shoulder  and  reaching  half  way  to  the" 
knees, — tJie  rest  of  them  waded  waist-  and  breast-deep  in  the 
shallozcer  end  of  the  pool,  their  shifts  bellied  up  by  the  air,  spread 
out  like  huge  bobbing  cauliflozvers. 

The  whole  tank  was  sunken  beneath  the  level  of  the  gardens, 
and  paved  and  pannelled  zvith  marble,  a  rather  cheap  marble.  To 
the  left  of  the  little  gallery,  zvhere  the  strangers  had  halted,  an 
ample  dozvager  sat  in  a  perfectly  circular  tub  formed  rather  like 
the  third  of  an  hogshead,  behind  her  a  small  hemicycle  of  yew* 
trees  kept  off  any  chance  draught  from  the  North.  She  likezvise 
wore  a  shift  of  white  linen.  On  a  plank  before  her,  reaching 
from  the  left  to  the  right  side  of  her  tank-hogshead,  were  a  salver 
zvith  a  large  piece  of  raw  smoked  ham,  a  fczv  leeks,  a  tankard  of 
darkish  beer,  a  back-scratcher,  the  ham-knife. 

Before  them,  from  some  sheds,  there  arose  a  faint  steam,  the 
sound  of  grunts  and  squeals  and  an  aroma  of  elderly  bodies.  From 
the  opposite  gallery  a  white-beared  town-cfouncillor  began  to 
throw  grapes  to  the  ner'ids. 

Le  Sieur  de  Maunsier:  They  have  closed  these  places  in  Mar- 
seilles, causa  flegitii,  they  were  thought  to  be  bad  for  our  morals. 
Poggio  :  And  are  your  morals  improved  ? 
Maunsier:  Nein,  bin  nicht  verbessert. 
Poggio:  And  are  the  morals  of  Marseilles  any  better? 
Maunsier:  Not  that  I  know  of.     Assignations  are  equally  fre- 
quent ;  the  assignors  less  cleanly ;  their  health,  I  presume,  none 


T  he.  Little. Rev  iezv  13 


the  better.  The  Church  has  always  been  dead  set  against  wash- 
ing. St.  Clement  of  Alexandria  forbade  all  bathing  by  women. 
He  made  no  exception.  Baptism  and  the  last  oiling  were  enough, 
to  his  thinking.  St.  Augustine,  more  genial  and  human,  took 
a  bath  to  console  himself  for  the  death  of  his  mother.  I  suspect 
that  it  was  a  hot  one.  Being  clean  is  a  pagan  virtue,  and  no 
part  of  the  light  from  Judaea. 

Poggio  :  Say  rather  a  Roman,  the  Greek  philosophers  died,  for 
the  most  part,  of  lice.  Only  the  system  of  empire,  plus  a  dilet- 
tantism in  luxuries,  could  have  brought  mankind  to  the  wash-tub. 
•The  christians  have  made  dirt  a  matter  of  morals :  a  son  of 
God  can  have  no  need  to  be  cleansed;  a  worm  begotten 
in  sin  and  foredoomed  to  eternal  damnation  in  a  bottle 
of  the  seven  great  stenches,  would  do  ill  to  refine  his  nostrils  and 
unfit  himself  for  his  future.  For  the  elect  and  the  rejected  alike, 
washing  is  either  noxious  or  useless — they  must  be  transcendent 
at  all  costs.  The  rest  of  the  world  must  be  like  them;  they  there- 
fore look  after  our  morals.  Yet  this  last  term  is  wholly  elastic. 
There  is  no  system  which  has  not  been  tried,  wedlock  or  unwed- 
lock,  a  breeding  on  one  mare  or  on  many ;  all  with  equal  success, 
with  equal  flaws,  crimes,  and  discomforts. 

Maunsier:  I  have  heard  there  was  no  adultery  found  in  Sparta. 
Poggio :  There  was  no  adultery  among  the  Lacedaemonians  be- 
cause they  held  all  women  in  common.  A  rumour  of  Troy  had 
reached  the  ears  of  Lycurgus :  "So  Lycurgus  thought  also  there 
were  many  foolish  vain  joys  and  fancies,  in  the  laws  and  orders 
of  other  nations,  touching  marriage :  seeing  they  caused  their 
bitches  and  mares  to  be  lined  and  covered  with  the  fairest  dogs 
and  goodliest  stallions  that  might  be  gotten,  praying  and  paying 
the  maisters  and  owners  of  the  same :  and  kept  their  wives  not- 
withstanding shut  up  safe  imder  lock  and  key,  for  fear  lest  other 
than  themselves  might  get  them  with  child,  although  themselves 
were  sickly,  feeble-brained,  extreme  old."  I  think  I  quote  rightly 
from  Plutarch.  The  girls  of  Lacedaemon  played  naked  before 
the  young  men,  that  their  defects  should  be  remedied  rather  than 
hidden.  A  man  first  went  by  stealth  to  his  mistress,  and  this  for 
a  long  space  of  time ;  thus  learning  address  and  silence.  For 
better  breeding  Lycurgus  would  not  have  children  the  property 
of  any  one  man,  but  sought  only  that  they  should  be  born  of  the 
lustiest  women,  begotten  of  the  most  vigorous  seed. 
Mawisier:  Christianity  would  put  an  end  to  all  that,  yet  I  think 
there  was  some  trace  left  in  the  lex  Germanica,  and  in  some  of 


14  The    Little    Review 


our  Provencal  love  customs ;  for  under  the  first  a  woman  kept 
whatever  man  she  Hked,  so  long  as  she  fancied :  the  children  being 
brought  up  by  her  brothers,  being  a  part  of  the  female  family, 
cognati.  The  chivaleric  system  is  smothered  with  mysticism,  and 
is  focussed  all  upon  pleasure,  but  the  habit  of  older  folk-custom 
is  at  the  base  of  its  freedoms,  its  debates  were  on  matters  of 
modus. 

These  girls  look  very  well  in  their  shifts.  They  confound 
the  precepts  of  temperance. 
Poggio :  I  have  walked  and  ridden  through  Europe,  annoting, 
observing.     I  am  interested  in  food  and  the  animal. 

There  was,  before  I  left  Rome,  a  black  woman  for  sale  in  the 
market.  Her  breasts  stuck  out  like  great  funnels,  her  shoulders 
were  rounded  like  basins,  her  biceps  was  that  of  a  wheel-wright; 
these  upper  portions  of  her,  to  say  nothing  of  her  flattened-in 
face,  were  disgusting  and  hideous  but,  she  had  a  belly  like  Venus, 
from  below  the  breasts  to  the  crotch  she  was  like  a  splendid  Greek 
fragment.  She  came  of  a  tropical  meat-eating  tribe.  I  observe 
that  gramenivorous  and  fruit-eating  races  have  shrunken  arms 
and  shoulders,  narrow  backs  and  weakly  distended  stomachs. 
Much  beer  enlarges  the  girth  in  old  age,  at  a  time  when  the  form 
in  any  case,  might  have  ceased  to  give  pleasure.  The  men  of  this 
nubian  tribe  were  not  lovely;  they  were  shaped  rather  like 
almonds:  the  curious  roundness  in  the  front  aspect,  a  gradual 
sloping-ia  toward  the  feet,  a  very  great  muscular  power,  a  sil- 
houette not  unlike  that  of  an  egg,  or  perhaps  more  like  that  of  a 
tadpole. 

Civilized  man  grows  more  frog-like,  his  members  become  de- 
partmental. 

Maunsier:  But  fixed.  Man  falls  into  a  set  gamut  of  types.  His 
thoughts  also.  The  informed  and  the  uninformed,  the  clodhoppei 
and  the  civilian  are  equally  incapable  of  trusting  an  unwonted 
appearance.  Last  week  I  met  an  exception,  and  for  that  cause 
the  matter  is  now  in  my  mind,  and  I  am,  as  they  say  "forming 
conclusions."  The  exception,  an  Englishman,  had  found  a  paro- 
chial beauty  in  Savoia,  in  the  inn  of  a  mountain  town,  a  "local 
character"  as  he  called  her.  He  could  not  describe  her  features 
with  any  minute  precision,  but  she  wore,  he  remembered,  a  dress 
tied  up  with  innumerable  small  bits  of  ribbon  in  long  narrow  bow- 
knots,  limp,  hanging  like  grass-blades  caught  in  the  middle.  She 
came  in  to  him  as  a  sort  of  exhibit.     He  kissed  her  hand.     She 


The    Little    Review  15 


sat  by  his  bedside  and  conversed  with  him  pleasantly.     They 

were  quite  alone  for  some  time.     Nothing  more  happened.  From 

something  in  his  manner,  I  am  inchned  to  believe  him.     He  was 

convinced  that  nothing  more  ever  did  happen. 

Poggio :  Men  have  a  curious  desire  for  uniformity.    Bawdry  and 

religion  are  all  one  before  it. 

Maunsiers :  They  call  it  the  road  to  salvation. 

Poggio :  They  ruin  the  shape  of  life  for  a  dogmatic  exterior. 

What  dignity  have  we  over  the  beasts,  save  to  be  once,  and  to  be 

irreplaceable ! 

I  myself  am  a  rag-bag,  a  mass  of  sights  and  citations,  but  I 
will  not  beat  down  life  for  the  sake  of  a  model. 
Maunsier:  Would  you  be  "without  an  ideal?" 
Poggio :  Is  beauty  an  ideal  like  the  rest?  I  confess  I  see  the  need 
of  no  other.  When  I  read  that  from  the  breast  of  the  Princess 
Hellene  there  was  cast  a  cup  of  "white  gold,'"  the  sculptor  finding 
no  better  model ;  and  that  this  cup  was  long  shown  in  the  temple 
at  Lyndos,  which  is  in  the  island  of  Rhodes;  or  when  I  read,  as 
I  think  is  the  textual  order,  first  of  the  cup  and  then  of  its  origin, 
there  comes  upon  me  a  discontent  with  human  imperfection.  I 
am  no  longer  left  in  the  "slough  of  the  senses,"  but  am  full 
of  heroic  life,  for 'the  instant.  The  sap  mounts  in  the  twigs  of  my 
being. 

The  visions  of  the  mystics  give  them  like  courage,  it  may  be. 
Maunsier :  My  poor  uncle,  he  will  -talk  of  the  slough  of  the  senses 
and  the  "loathsome  pit  of  contentment."     His  "ideas"  are  with 
other  men's  conduct.    He  seeks  to  set  bounds  to  their  actions. 

I  cannot  make  out  the  mystics  ;  nor  how  far  we  may  trust  to  our 
senses,  and  how  far  to  sudden  sights  that  come  from  within  us, 
or  at  least  seem  to  spring  up  within  us :  a  mirage,  an  elf-music ; 
and  how  far  we  are  prey  to  the  written  word. 
Poggio :  I  have  seen  many  women  in  dreams,  surpassing  most 
mortal  women,  but  I  doubt  if  I  have  on  their  account  been  stirred 
to  more  thoughts  of  beauty,  than  I  have  had  meditating  upon  that 
passage  in  latin,  concerning  the  temple  of  Pallas  at  Lyndos  audits 
memorial  cup  of  white  gold.  I  do  not  count  myself  among  Plato's- 
disciples. 

Maunsier :  And  yet  it  is  forced  upon  us  that  all  these  things  breed 
their  fanatics ;  that  even  a  style  might  become  a  religion  and 
breed  bigots  as  many,  and  pestilent. 
Poggio :  Our  blessing  is  to  live  in  an  age  when  some  can  hold  a 


16  T  h  c    Little    Re  v  i  c  zu 

fair  balance.  It  can  not  last ;  many  are  half-drunk  with  freedom  ; 
a  greed  for  taxes  at  Rome  will  raise  up  envy,  a  cultivated  court 
will  disappear  in  the  ensuing  reaction.  \\'e  are  fortunate  to  live  in 
the  wink,  the  eye  of  mankind  is  open ;  for  an  instant,  hardly  more 
than  an  instant.  Men  are  prized  for  being  unique.  I  do  not  mean 
merely  fantastic.  That  is  to  say  there  are  a  few  of  us  who  can 
prize  a  man  for  thinking,  in  himself,  rather  than  for  a  passion  to 
make  others  think  with  him. 

Perhaps  you  are  right  about  style ;  an  established  style  could 
be  as  much  a  nuisance  as  any  other  establishment.  Yet  there 
must  be  a  reputable  normal.  Tacitus  is  too  crabbed.  The  rhetor- 
icians ruined  the  empire.     Let  us  go  on  to  our  baths. 

Finis 


Three  Nightpieces 

John   Rodker 


TOWARD  eight  o'clock  I  begin  to  feel  my  pulses  accelerating 
quietly.  A  little  after,  my  heart  begins  to  thump  against  its 
walls.  I  tremble  all  over,  and  leaving  the  room  rapidly  go  out  on 
the  terrace  of  the  house  and  look  over  the  weald. 
There  is  a  shadowiness  of  outline  and  the  air  is  crisp.  The  sky 
in  one  corner  is  a  pale  nostalgic  rose.  The  trees  look  like  weeds 
and  a  bird  flies  up  through  them  like  a  fish  lazily  rising.  The 
hills  really  look  like  breasts :  and  each  moment  1  look  for  the 
head  of  the  Titan  negress  to  rise  with  the  moon  in  the  lobe  of  her 
ear. 

I  think  of  my  youth  and  the  intolerable  legacy  it  left  me. 
I  think  of  the  crazy  scaffolding  of  my  youth  and  wonder  why  I 
should  be  surprised  that  the  superstructure  should  be  crazy  too, 
wavering  to  every  breeze  and  threatening  ever  to  come  down  about 
my  ears.  I  think  too  of  wrongs  done  to  this  one  and  that  one,  and 

"Oh,  my  God,''  I  cry,  "I  did  not  know,  I  did  not  know," 

and  my  heart  thumps  louder  in  my  breast  and  my  pulses  throb 
like  a  tide  thundering  and  sucking  at  some  crumbling  jetty. 
I  gulp  deep  breaths  of  air  to  steady  myself,  but  it  is  of,  no  good. 
I  think  of  her  whom  I  love  and  futility  overwhelms  me:  for  this 
too  will  have  its  common  end,  and  our  orbits  grow  ever  remoter. 


The     Little    Re  vie  IV  17 

And  putting  my  head  on  my  breast,  faint  and  reminiscent — the 
smell  from  my  armpits  rises  to  my  brain,  and  she  stands  before 
me  vividly  and  the  same  smell  comes  from  her ;  but  it  is  more 
heady  and  more  musky  and  she  looks  at  me  with  intolerable 
humility. 

And  a  minute  after  there  is  only  the  dark ;  a  hoot-owl's  terrifying 
call  and  the  queer  yap  that  comes  in  reply ;  the  frogs  that  thud 
through  the  grass  like  uncertain  feet ;  the  trees  that  talk  to  each 
other. 

And  I  would  willingly  let  my  life  out  gurgling  and  sticky,  and 
sink  without  a  bubble  into  its  metallic  opacity. 


II 

T  HAD  gone  to  bed  quietly  at  my  wife's  side,  kissing  her  casu- 
*  ally  as  was  my  custom.  I  awoke  about  two  in  the  morning 
with  a  start  so  sudden  that  it  seemed  I  had  been  shot  by  a  cannon 
out  of  the  obscurity  of  sleep  into  the  light  of  waking;  at  one 
moment  I  had  been,  as  it  were,  gagged  and  bound  by  sleep ;  and 
the  next  I  was  wide  awake  and  could  distinctly  sense  the  demark- 
ing  line  between  sleep  and  waking.  And  this  demarking  line 
was  like  a  rope  made  of  human  hair  such  as  one  sees  in  exhibitions 
of  indigenous  Japanese  products. 

In  my  ears  still  rang  the  after-waves  of  the  shriek  which  had 
awakened  me.  The  nerves  governing  my  skin  were  still  out  of 
control  as  a  result  of  the  sudden  fright,  and  portions  of  it  con- 
tinued twitching  for  a  long  time  after ;  my  scalp  grew  cold  in 

patches  and  my  hair  stood  on  end In  the  dark  I  found  myself 

trembling  all  over  and  bathed  in  a  cold  sweat And  it  was 

impossible  to  collect  myself.  My  wife,  I  felt,  was  sitting  up  in 
bed  and  a  minute  afterward  she  began  to  weep  quietly. 
I  was  still  trembling  and  her  quiet  weeping  made  me  more  afraid. 
I  was  angry  with  her  too,  but  could  aot  talk  to  her,  I  was  so 
afraid.  My  voice,  I  knew,  would  have  issued  thin  and  quavering, 
and  I  was  afraid  of  its  hollow  reverberations  losing  themselves 
uncertainly  in  the  darkness.  By  the  little  light  I  saw  her  put  her 
hands  up  to  her  head  in  despair.  .  .  .as  though  still  half  asleep; 
and  before  I  could  stop  her  again  the  same  piercing,  incredibly 
terrifying  shriek  burst  from  her.  Again  I  trembled  all  over, 
involuntarily  gnashing  my  teeth  and  feeling  my  skin  ripple  like 
loathsome  worms. 


18  T  li  c      L  i  t  t  I  c    R  c  V  i  e 


"Stop,"  I  cried,  seizing  her  by  tlie  arms,  "Stop,"  afraid  to  wake 
her,  yet  more  afraid  to  hear  again  that  appalhng  shriek — and  in  a 
moment  she  was  awake.  ..  .looking  wildly  round  her,  and  the 
quiet  weeping  gave  way  to  a  wild  and  tempestuous  sobbing. 
I  was  afraid  of  her,  afraid  to  go  on  sleeping  with  her,  lest  she 
should  again  shriek  in  that  wild  and  unearthly  fashion;  afraid 
to  fall  asleep  again  lest  I  should  be  awakened  by  that  appalling 
shriek  dinning  in  my  ears  and  my  body  quivering  vilely  under  the 
impossible  sound.  I  clung  to  her:  "What  is  it,  tell  me  at  least 
what  it  is,"  I  said. 

For  a  time  she  would  not  tell  me.  Trembling  all  over  with 
anguish  and  fear  of  I  knew  not  what,  I  insisted.  When  at  last 
she  did  tell  me  it  was  as  though  the  world  had  suddenly  been  cut 
away  from  under  my  feet.  Helplessly  and  weeping  I  clung  to 
her,  w'ith  cold  at  my  heart.  That  any  human  being  could  accuse 
another  of  devilry  so  sinister,  so  cold,  so  incredible  even  in  dream, 
I  had  not  conceived  of.  Loathing  her,  I  clung  the  closer  in  my 
anguish  and  despair. 

Ill 

/^   NE  night  at  supper  I  had  eaten  cucumber.    Soon  after  I  went 
^-^       to  bed  and  on  the  first  strokes  of  ten  fell  asleep. 
After  sleeping  for  a  long  time  I  awoke  into  a  dimly  lit  room.     I 
still  lay  on  the  bed  and  after  a  moment  a  figure  entered,  and  after, 
a  few  moments  more,  another,  until  in  this  fashion  there  were 
half  a  dozen  people  in  the  room.    I  could  not  distinguish  who  they 
were,  and  quietly  and  obscurely  they  moved  round  my  bed.    Now 
and  then  there  was  a  hiss  out  of  the  corners  of  the  room,  or  a 
chuckle  in  reply  to  some  unheard  obscenity. 
A  heavy  weight  oppressed  me  as  though  I  knew  they  menaced  me 
in  some  obscure  and  dreadful  way.     I  could  not  move. 
I  could  not  move,  and  always  the  same  obscure  and  dreadful 
procession  encircled  me  and  shadowy  bodies  pressed  a  little  closer, 
then  drew  back  again  to  join  the  sinister  group. 
And  though   I  saw  nothing  save  their  shadowy  forn;s,   I  knew 
their  eyes  gleamed  down  at  me :  their  faces  were  lecherous :  their 
hands  clawed  ;  and  forever  and  through  long  ages  they  went  round 
me  in  sinister  procession. 

Suddenly.  . .  .and  how  I  do  not  know,  I  had  broken  the  bonds  of 
of  sleep  and  lay  trembling  in  a  cold  sweat.  Through  my  pro- 
tecting blankets  the  last  strokes  of  ten  were  fading. 


T  h  e    L  i  t  t  I  e    R  e  V  i  e  w  19 


Improvisations 

Louis  Gilmore 


I 

My  thoughts  are  fish 
That  dwell  in  a  twilight 
Of  green  waters : 

They  are  silver  fish 
That  dart  here  and  there 
Streaking  the  still  water 
Of  a  pond. 

My  thoughts  are  birds 
That  have  hung  their  nests 
Near  the  sun : 

They  are  yellow  birds 

That  drift  on  stretched  wings 

Over  a  sea  untroubled 

By  a  sail.  "* 

My  thoughts  are  beasts 
That  crouch  and  wait 
In  a  black  forest. 

My  thoughts  are  apes 

That  clamber  through  the  tree-tops 

Towards  the  moon. 

II. 

In  winter 
People  intensify 
Their  individuality 
In  houses. 

In  spring 

By  the  side  of  lakes 

Beneath  trees 


20  T  he    Little    Re  v  i  c  iv 


People  walk 
Vaguely  sentimental. 

In  summer 

Lying  upon  the  warm  earth 

They  hear  the  grass  grow  ; 

Or  they  become  impersonal 

In  a  contemplation 

Of  stars. 

In  autumn 
People  dispel 
The  characteristic 
Melancholy  of  the  season 
With  a  cup  of  tea. 


Ill 

Rare  delight. 
That  of  hanging 
By  one's  tail 
Over  a  pond. 

Rare  delight, 
That  of  seeing 
A  green  monkey 
In  the  sky. 

Rare  delight, 
That  of  reaching  up 
With  one's  paw 
To  touch  it. 

Rare  delight. 
That  of  finding 
The  strange  one 
In  the  water. 

Rare  delight. 
That  of  clasping 
The  beloved 
In   death. 


T  h  e    L  i  t  t  I  e    R  c  V  i  e  w  21 

Poet's  Heart 

Maxwell  Bodenheim 

The  Mad  Shepherd 
The  Narcissus  Peddler 
The  Slender  Nun 
The  Wine  Jar  Maiden 
The  Poet 

A  great  ivindozv  of  palest  purple  light.  The  loiver  corner  of  the 
window  is  visible.  A  dark  purple  zvall  frames  the  window,  and 
narrow  rectangles  of  the  zvall,  belozv  and  to  the  left  of  the  zuindow- 
corner,  are  visible.  Before  the  zvindozv  corner  is  the  portion  of  a 
pale  pink  floor.  One  tall  thin  white  candle  stands  against  the  dark 
purple  rectangle  of  zvall  to  the  left  of  the  windozv-corner.  It  bears 
a  narrozv  flame  zvhich  retnains  stationary.  Soft  and  clear  light, 
pours  in  from  the  windozv-corner  and  dim  shapes  stand  behind 
it.  The  Mad  Shepherd  appears  from  the  left..  He  holds  a  reed  to 
his  lips  but  does  not  blow  into  it.  A  long  brozvn  cloak  drapes  him: 
black  sandals  are  on  his  feet.  His  black  hair  caresses  his  Shoul- 
ders; his  face  is  young.  He  pauses,  three-fourths  of  his  body 
framed  by  the  palest  purple  window-corner. 

The   Mad    Shepherd    (addressing    the    palest   purple   windozv- 
corner)  : 

I've  lost  a  tune.  It's  a  spirit-rose,  and  a  reed-limbed  boy  ran 
before  me  and  whisked  it  past  my  ears  before  I  could  seize  him. 
Have  you  seen  him,  window  clearer  than  the  clashing  light 
bubbles  in  a  woman's  eyes?  {A  pause).  I  sat  on  a  rock  in  the 
midst  of  my  sheep  and  smiled  at  the  piping  of  my  young  soul,  as 
it  climbed  a  spirit-tree.  Soon  it  would  whirl  joyously  on  the 
tip  of  the  tree,  and  my  heart  would  turn  with  it.  Then  the 
song  brushed  past  me  and  made  my  head  a  burning  feather 
dropping  down.  I  stumbled  after  it,  over  the  sun-dazed  hills, 
and  the  reed-limbed  boy  would  often  stop,  touch  both  of  my 
eyes  with  the  song-flower,  and  spring  away.  I  saw  him  dance 
into  this  black  palace.  I  followed,  through  high  corridors,  to 
you,  palest  purple  window,  towering  over  me  like  a  silent  mass 
of  breath-clear  souls.  He  has  gone.  Palest  purple  window, 
tell  me  where  he  is  ? 

{There  is  a  short  silence.  The  Mad  Shepherd  stands  despair- 
ingly fingering  his  reed.  The  Narcissus  Peddler  appears  from  the 
right.  He  is  an  old  man,  a  huge  basket  of  cut  narcissus  strapped 


22  T  h  e    L  i  t  t  I  e    R 


e  V  I  e  zc 


to  his  back.  His  body  is  tall  and  slender;  his  face  a  bit  yellovf, 
ivith  a  long  silver-brown  beard.  His  head  is  bare.  He  ivears  a\ 
black  velvet  coat,  pale  yellow  shirt,  soft  grey,  loose  trousers,  and 
black  sandals.  He  rests  his  basket  upon  the  floor.  The  Mad  Shep- 
herd takes  a  step  toivard  htm,  zvearily). 
The  Narcissus  Peddler : 
A  Voice  walked  into  me,  one  day.  How  he  found  me,  sleeping 
between  two  huge  purple  hills,  1  do  not  know.  He  said  with  a 
laugh  that  had  ghosts  of  weeping  in  it  that  he  knew  a  garden 
where  narcissus  flowers  grew  taller  than  myself.     What  was 
there  to  do? — my  soul  and  I,  we  had  to  walk  with  him.  He 
lead  us  to  this  palace,  spinning  the  thread  of  a  laugh  behind 
him  so  that  we  could  follow.  But  now  he  has  gone,  and  there 
is  no  window — only  a  palest  purple  window. 
The  Mad  Shepherd: 

We  can  leap  through  this  window,  but  it  may  be  a  trap. 
The  Narcissus  Peddler : 
Or  a  dream  ? 

The  Mad  Shepherd: 

Perhaps  this  is  a  dream  that  is  true — an  endless  dream. 
The  Narcissus  Peddler : 

Can  that  be  death  ? 
Mad  Shepherd  {pointing  to  the  other  s  basket)  : 

With  death,  you  would  have  left  your  narcissus  behind  you, 
for  fragrance  itself. 
Peddler : 

If  my  life  has  melted  to  an  endless  dream,  my  chase  is  over. 
I  shall  sit  here  and  my  soul  will  become  an  endless  thought  of 
narcissus. 

(He  seats  himself  beside  his  basket ;  Shepherd  stands  despair- 
ingly; the  Slender  Nun  appears  from  the  right :  She  is  stnall  and 
her  body  like  a  thin  drooping  stem;  she  ivears  the  black  dress  of 
a  nun  but  her  child  face  is  uncovered.  Her  feet  are  bare.  She 
stops,  standing  a  step  away  from  the  Peddler) 
The  Slender  Nun : 

I  see  a  candle  that  is  like  an  arm  stiffened  in  prayer.  (She 
pauses)  Palest  purple  window,  is  my  soul  standing  behind  youi 
and  spreading  to  light  that  gently  thrusts  me  down?  A  flamed^-* 
losed  angel  lifted  it  from  me.  I  ran  after  him.  He  seemed  to 
touch  you,  window,  like  a  vapor  kiss  dying  upon  pale  purple  silk. 
(a  pause)  Must  I  stand  here  always  waiting  for  my  soul  like  a 
flower  petal  pressed  deep  into  the  earth  by  passing  feet? 


I 


The    Little    Revie  IV  23 


The  Shepherd: 

You  have  lost  a  soul  and  I  a  tune.    Let  me  make  you  the  tune 
and  you  make  me  your  soul.     You  could  sit  with  me  on  my 
f     rock  in  the  hills  and  make  a  soul  of  my  reed — rippling  and  pip- 
ing of  you,  I  might  weave  a  new  tune. 

The  Nun: 

Can  you  give  me  a  soul  that  will  be  Christ  floating  out  in  clear 
music?     Only  then  I  would  go  with  you. 

Shepherd  (sadly)  : 

My  music  is  like  the  wet,  quick  kiss  of  rain.  It  knows  nothing 
of  Christ. 

(A  short  silence) 

(The  Wine  jar  maiden  appears  from  the  right.  She  is  tall  and 

pale  brown;  upon  her  head  is  a  long  pale  green  jar;  her  hair  i^ 

black  and  spurts  down.  Her  face  is  wide  but  delicately  twisted. 

She  wears  a  thin  simple  pale  green  gown,  with  a  black  girdle  about 

her  waist,  one  tasseled  end  hanging  dozvn.  She  stops  a  little  behind 

the  Slender  Nun,  and  lowers  her  wine-jar  to  the  floor.  The  Nun 

turns  and  partly  faces  her.  The  Narcissus  Peddler  looks  up  from 

zvhere  he  has  sat,  in  a  reverie,  beside  his  basket.) 

The  Wine  Jar  Maiden : 

My  heart  was  a  wine  jar  stained  with  the  roses  of  frail  dreams 
and  filled  with  wine  that  had  turned  to  shaking  mist.  One  day 
I  felt  it  wrenched  from  me,  and  mist  drops  that  flew  from  it, 
as  it  left,  sank  into  my  breast  and  made  me  shrink.  I  could 
not  see  the  theif,  but  I  followed  the  scent  of  my  heart  trailing 
behind  him.  It  brought  me  here,  but  at  this  palest  purple  win- 
dow it  died.  Scent  of  my  heart,  have  you  spread  over  this  huge 
"window,  and  must  I  stand  forever  looking  upon  you? 
( The  Narcissus  slowly  rises  and  takes  a  stride  toward  the  palest 

purple  wifidoiv) 

The  Narcissus  Peddler : 

That  dim  shape  behind  the  window — I  believe  it  is  a  huge  nar- 
cissus. I  am  a  rainbow-smeared  knave  to  stand  here  juggling 
the  little  golden  balls  of  dreams.  I  shalt  spring  through  the 
window. 

The  Slender  Nun: 

Take  my  hand  when  you  spring.  Perhaps  this  is  God's  forehead, 
and  we  shall  melt  into  it,  like  billows  of  rain  washing  into  a 
cliff. 

The  Wine  Jar  Maiden : 

If  I  leap  through  this  window,  a  cloak  of  my  heart-scent  may 
hang  to  me.  I  shall  touch  the  cloak,  now  and  then,  and  that 
shall  be  my  life. 


24  7  //  c    L  1  t  I  I  c    R  c  V  i 


The  Mad  Shepherd : 

1  must  sit  here,  and  whirl  witli  my  young  spirit.  If  I  cannot 
knit  together  strands  of  music  better  than  the  tune  1  ran  after, 
then  1  should  not  have  chased  it. 

{After  a  short  silence  the  Narcissus  Peddler  and  the  Slender 
Nun,  hand  in  hand,  leap  through  the  ivindozv-corner  and  vanish. 
The  JVine  Jar  Maiden  leaps  after  them,  a  moment  later,  and  also 
disappears.  The  Mad  Shepherd  sits  doii'n  and  blozvs  little  frag- 
ments of  piping  into  his  reed,  long  pauses  scparaiing'thcm.    As 
he  does  this,  he  looks  up  at  the  tvindoiv,  his  head  motionless.  The 
Narcissus  Peddler,  the  Slender  Nun  and  the  JVine  Jar  Maiden 
appear  from  the  left  ivalking  slozvly,  in  single  file,  as  though  in  a 
trance.  The  Narcissus  Peddler  stands  beside  iiis  basket,  zvhich  hc 
left  behind  him;  the  Wine  Jar  Maiden  beside  her  jar,  and  the 
Slender  Nun  between  them) 
The  Mad  Shepherd  (looking  up,  astonished)  : 
You   return,   like   sleep-drooping   poplar   trees   that   have   been 
given  wings  and  after  long  journeyings  fly  back  to  their  little 
blue-green  hills. 
The  Narcissus  Peddler: 

After  we  sprang  we  found  ourselves  in  a  high  corridor,  whose 
air  was  like  the  breath  of  a  dying  maiden — the  corridor  we 
first  walked  down,  before  we  came  to  this  palest  purple  window. 
The  Mad  Shepherd  {ivondcringly)  : 
A  dream  with  a  strange,  buried,  quivering  palace  whose  doors 
are  closed. 

{The  poet  quietly  appears  from  the  right.  He  is  dressed  in  a 
deep  crimson  robe,  pale  brown  turban  and  black  sandals;  his  head 
is  bare.  He  surveys  the  others  a  moment,  then  toiiches  the  shoul- 
der of  the  JVine  Jar  Maiden.  S)ic  turns  and  stares  at  him.  Vh^ 
others  turn  also) 
The  Poet : 
You  are  all  in  my  heart — a  wide  space  with  many  buried,  black 
palaces,  huge  pale-purple  windows ;  hills  with  rocks  for  mad 
shepherds,  strolling  flower  venders,  wine  jar  maidens  dancing 
in  high  courtyards  hushed  with  quilted  star-light  and  sometimes 
a  slender  nun  walking  alone  through  the  aisles  of  old  reveries. 
I  have  woven  you  into  a  poem,  and  you  were  drawn  on  by  me. 
But  when  my  poems  are  made  I  take  my  people  to  a  far-ofT 
garden  in  my  heart.  There  we  sit  beneath  one  of  the  shining 
trees  and  talk.     There  I  shall  give  you  your  soul,  your  heart, 
your  song — and  your  huge  narcissus  flower.    And  out  of  them 
make  other  poems,  perhaps?     Come. 
(He  leads  them  away) 


The    L  i  t  t  I  e    R  c  v  i  e  w  25 

Spectrum 

Emanuel  Morgan 

Opus  96 

You  are  the  Japan 

Where  cherries  ahvays  blossom. 

With  you  there  is  no  meantime. 

Your  are  the  nightingale's  twenty-four  hours    of  song, 

The  unbroken  Parthenon, 

The  everlasting  purring  of  the  sphynx. 

At  the  first  footfall  of  an  uncouth  season,  / 

You  migrate  with  one  wing-sweep 
To  beauty. 


The  Reader  Critic 

Indiscriminate  Illusions 

E.  L.  R.,  Bear  Creek,  Pa. : 

After  reading  your  article  "Push  Face"  in  your  June  number  I 
have  torn  the  magazine  to  pieces  and  burned  it  in  the  fire.  You  may 
discontinue  my  subscription. 

[We  have  noticed  with  much  amusement  that  whenever  there 
is  an  article  in  the  body  of  the  magazine  or  a  comment  in  the  Reader 
Critic,  no  matter  by  whom  signed,  which  seems  "disgusting,  ridiculous 
or  immoral"  to  some  struggling  soul,  in  comes  a  letter  addressed  to 
Margaret  Anderson,  saying:  "Your  article,  your  comment."  .... 
The  only  hope  the  editor  can  have  out  of  so  much  generous  accredit- 
is  that  some  one  sometime  will  write  in  giving  her  credit  for  Yeats's 
poems. — jh.'\ 

Critical  Epilepsy 

/.  E.  P.,  White  Plains,  New  York : 

Your  magazine  is  rubbish,  disappointingly  insipid,  heavily  stupid. 
I  fear  it  has  gas  on  the  stomach.  Retract!  Give  us  the  unperverted, 
the  natural,   the  "sincere."     Our  eyesight  and  pocket-books  will  not 


26  T  h  e    L  i  t  t  I  c    R 


I  c  zv 


endure  The  Emptror'i  Cloali  (see  H.  C.  Anderson).  This  vai)id 
trance  pose,  this  vaporizing  makes  us  wonder  why  you  are  attempt- 
ing to  loop  the  loop.  And  again  the  "atmosphere"  of  your  paper 
seems  as  well  compassed  as  a  spider's  journey  on  the  ceiling.  We 
have  the  same  feeling  of  wanting  to  help  you  both  by  poking  you 
off  with  an  umbrella. 

M.  H .,  La  Grange,  Illinois: 

Some  of  your  stories  and  criticisms  I  am  glad  to  have  read.  I 
remember  tiie  interesting  (and  instructive)  criticism  on  our  four 
pianists  and  a  wonderful  short  story  by  Sherwood  Anderson, — those 
two  things  and  a  Harold  Bauer  eulogy  are  about  the  only  two  things 
I  can  recall  favorably.  A  story  written  to  protest  against  the  hanging 
of  one  of  our  worst  criminials  (as  in  the  very  first  Little  Reoiew  1 
received — I  remember  because  it  disgusted  me),  another  story  ridi- 
culing our  part  in  the  war  (as  in  the  last  number),  and  other  queer 
Emma  Goldman  sort  of  stories  (in  between  these  first  and  last 
copies)  are  way  beyond  me. 

Why  should  one  be  a  Democrat  or  a  Christian  or  a  Militarist  or 
a  Mrs.  Potter-Palmer  or  a  push-face  policeman  to  believe  in  our 
cause  for  entering  the  war.  I  wish  every  paper  and  magazine  might 
help  inspire  the  right  sort  of  war  enthusiasm.  Many,  a  few  years 
ago,  believed  in  pe^ce  at  any  price;  but  many  minds  have  changed, 
including  my  own.  If  the  real  business  of  life  is  to  live,  we'll  fight 
for  the  privilege  so  long  as  we  can't  rely  on  any  other  means  of 
gaining  that  right.  And  we  want  at  least  a  few  more  generations  to 
live  as  well  as  our  own.  If  there  are  various  ideas  of  what  "living" 
means  I'm  glad  there  are  those  who  can  never  understand  Emma  Gold- 
man's theories. 

German  women  can't  realize  what  "living"  means  if  they  feel 
obliged  to  get  off  the  sidewalk  to  let  pass  a  German  officer.  Do  these 
men  who  are  afraid  to  fight  for  their  country  know  what  living  means 
— men  who  drink  and  smoke?  Would  they  believe  they  stand  less 
chance  of  recovery  from  sickness,  less  chance  of  resisting  sickness, 
less  chance  of  living  very  long,  than  the  men  who  never  touch  alcohol 
or  tobacco?  (But  this  is  not  the  point  either,  and  men  are  reform- 
ing). 

Anyway  I  would  rather  give  a  dollar  and  a  half  to  the  Red  Cross 
than  subscribe  for  The  Little  Review.  And  also  I'm  not  intellectual 
enough  to  enjoy  it. 

[There  is  really  nothing  to  be  said  to  the  above  two  letters: 
explanation  up  against  what  must  be  a  matter  of  evolution.  It 
would  be  necessary  to  give  out  sample  copies  for  a  year  or  so  to 
prospective  subscribers  to  insure  satisfaction  before  we  take  their 
money.  Since  there  are  Hearst  publications  to  give  the  public  what 
it  wants  in  literature  and  art,  the  cinematagraph  to  give  it  what  it 
wants  in  drama,  why  should  that  public  bother  at  all  with  The  Litllt 
Reoiew?  Especially  when  we  state  fairly  that  we  are  a  magazine  of 
the  Arts,  making  no  compromise  with  the  public  taste? — jh.] 


The    Little    Review  27 


Interest  Begins  at  Home 

F.  E.  R.,  Chicago : 

I  have  just -read  your  June  issue.     Won't  you  ask  Ezra  Pound  if 
he  should  mind  making  an  effort  to  be  interesting? 

[I  ask  you  to  make  an  effort  to  discover  why  he  is  so  interesting.] 


"The  World's  Immense   Wound" 

Why  does  Ezra  Pound  regard  America  -with,  contempt?  America 
is  beneath  it. 

I  have  just  read  Muriel  Ciolkowska's  review  in  The  Egoist  of 
Le  Feu  by  Henri  Barbusse.  In  that  book  M.  Barbusse  has  a  char- 
acter say:  "One  figure  has  risen  above  the  war  and  will  shine  for 
the  beauty  and  importance  of  his  courage:   Liebknecht." 

How  this  book  ever  passed  the  censor  is'  beyond  me.  To  quote 
further: 

The  future!  The  future!  The  future's  duty  will  be  to  efface 
the  present,  to  efface  it  even  more  than  you  think,  to  efface  it  as 
something  abominable  and  shameful.  And  yet  this  present  was 
necessary!  Shame  to  military  glory,  shame  to  armies,  shame  to 
the  soldier's  trade  which  tranforms  men  in  turn  from  stupid 
victims  to  ignoble  executioners. 

A  Feldwebel  seated,  leaning  on  the  ripped-up  planks  of  what 
was,  there  where  we  stand,  a  sentry-box.  A  little  hole  under 
one  eye;  a  bayonet  thrust  has  nailed  him  by  his  face  to  the  boards. 
In  front  of  him,  also  seated,  with  his  elbows  on  his  knees,  his 
fists  in  his  neck,  a  man  shows  a  skull  opened  like  a  boiled  egg. 
Near  them,  appalling  sentinel,  half  a  man  is  standing: 
a  man  cut,  sliced  in  two  from  skull  to  loins,  leaning  upright 
against  the  bank  of  earth.  The  other  half  is  missing  of  this 
species  of  human  peg,  whose  eye  hangs  out,  whose  bluish  entrails 
twist  in  spirals  round  his  leg. 

"The  whole  book,  from  beginning  to  end,"  says  Mme.  Ciol- 
kowska,  "is  a  fearless  revelation,  be  the  theme  drowning  in  swamps, 
the  storming-parties,  the  dressing-stations,  starvation  and  thirst  which 
drives  men  to  drink  their  own  urine:" 

Of  the  greatness  and  wealth  of  a  country  they  make  a  devouring 
disease,  a  kind  of  cancer  absorbing  living  forces,  taking  the  whole 
place  and  crushing  life  and  which,  being  contagious,  ends  either 
in  the  crisis  of  war  or  in  the  exhaustion  and  asphyxia  of  armed 
peace.  Of  how  many  crimes  have  they  not  made  virtues  by 
calling  them  national — with  one  word!  They  even  deform 
truth.  For  eternal  truth  is  substituted  the  national  truth  of  each. 
So  many  peoples,  so  many  truths,  which  twist  and  turn  the  truth. 
All  those  who  keep  up  these  children's  disputes,  so  odiously 
ridiculous,  scold  each  other,  with:  "It  wasn't  I  who  began,  it 
was  you."     "No  it  wasn't  I,  it  was  you."     "Begin   if  you  dare." 


28  T  h  c    L  i  t  t  I  c    R  e  V  i  c  IV 


"Begin,  you."  Puerilities  which  keep  the  world's  immense 
wound  sore  because  those  really  interested  do  not  take  part  in 
the  discussion  and  the  desire  to  make  an  end  of  it  does  not 
exist;  all  those  who  cannot  or  will  not  make  peace  on  earth; 
all  those  who  clutch,  for  some  reason  or  other,  to  the  old  state 
of  things,  finding  or  inventing  reasons  for  it,  those  are  your 
enemies! 

Jn  a  word,  the  enemy  is  the  past.  The  perpetrators  of  war  are 
the  traditionalists,  steeped  in  the  past  .  .  .  for  whom  an  abuse 
has  the  power  of  law  because  it  has  been  allowed  to  take  root, 
who  aspire  to  be  guided  by  the  dead  and  who  insist  on  submitting 
the  passionate,  throbbing  future  and  progress  to  the  rule  of  ghosts 
and  nursery  fables. 

"Verily  the  criminals  are  those  who  echo,  'because  it  was,  it 
must  be.'  " 

Emma  Goldman  and  Alexander  Berkman  have  just  been  given 
a  sentence  of  two  years  in  prison,  fines  of  ten-thousand  dollars  each, 
and  deportation,  for  believing  these  same  things! — M.  C.  A. 


Argument 

Louis  Pntkelis,  Cambridge,  Mass.: 

I  am  thinking  seriously  on  the  subject  of  Art  and  1  would  like 
to  have  a  clear  exposition  of  your  views  and  the  reasons  why  they 
do  not  agree  with  mine. 

Having  the  relation  of  art  to  life  and  to  society,  as  a  question, 
seriously  to  heart,  I  would  prefer  a  serious  reply  to  a  serious  article 
rather  than  a  flippant  reply  to  chance  remarks.  I  had  hoped  that 
discussions  would  arise  among  the  Reader  Critic  that  would  interest 
a  larger  circle  of  readers  and  that  would  sift  the  question  thoroughly. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  last  few  numbers  of  The  Litlle  Review 
have  been  below  your  earlier  standard — almost  below  zero.  What 
sympathy  can  the  majority  of  readers  feel  for  the  foreign  editor, 
Ezra  Pound,  with  his  contemptuous  invective  against  the  "vulgus"^ 
The  last  letter  of  Wyndham  Lewis,  to  be  sure,  has  more  food  for 
thought,  though  it  seems  that  the  author's  acquaintance  with  Russian 
literature  is  rather  limited.  I,  could  say  more  about  that  but  I  await 
the  psychological  moment. 

[To  be  very  serious  I  had  no  idea  that  this  department  was 
ever  flippant.  I  thought  we  had  said  so  much  about  art  values  that 
we  couldn't  go  on  boring  our  audience  forever  with  the  same  dis- 
cussions. And  discussing  Art  isn't  very  profitable  anyway.  We're 
trying  to  show  what  it  is.  When  you  asked  questions  which  seemed 
to  me  quite  obvious,  or  at  least  seemed  to  show  quite  obviously 
that  you  didn't  understand  what  we  had  said  in  clearing  up  those 
values,  I  knew  no  better  way  to  point  up  our  disagreement  than  by 
using  what  is  known  as  "epithet"  instead  of  going  off  into  long  serious 
discussions  of  matters  that  had  already  been  "got  across." 


The    Little    Review  29 


A  contempt  for  the  "vulgus"  is  the  inevitable  reaction  of  any 
man  or  woman  who  observes  the  antics  of  the  "flies  in  the  market- 
place." There's  nothing  supercilious  about  it.  It's  a  fact  that  hu- 
manity is  the  most  stupid  and  degraded  thing  on  the  planet — 
whether  through  its  own  fault  or  not  is  beside  the  point  when  you're 
weighing  values.  You're. not  blaming  humanity  when  you  say  that; 
it  isn't  interesting  to  blame:  the  interesting  thing  is  to  put  the  truth 
of  it  into  a  form  that  will  endure. — M.  C.  A.] 

Note 

Banish 
Anne   Knish, 
Set  the  dog  on 
Emanuel  Morgan. 

X. 

Quotation 

M.  W.,  New  York  : 

Here  are  two  extracts  from  Jean  Laher's  Le  Breviare  d'un  Pantheist: 
their  appearance  in  The  Little  Review  should  give  a  healthy  jolt  to  many 
of  your  disdainful  readers,— and  many  others  will  thank  you  silently 
from  their  innermost  hearts  for  printing  two  of  the  most  beautiful 
thoughts  in  any  language. 

"Nous  sommes  evant  la  Nature  comme  Hamlet  devant  sa 
mere:  nous  la  jugeons  et  nous  la  condamoons,  et  pourtant  nous 
lui  pardonnoos  aussi,  comme  Hamlet  a  un  moment  pardonne, 
saisi  de  piete  filiale  ou  seulement  d'immense  pitie  humaine  devant 
la  vision,  qui  lui  est  sou  dainement  apparue,  de  tout  le  chaos  des 
choses.  Et  nous,  qui  voulons  ce  qu'elle  n'a  pas  voulu,  et  qui 
voulons  plus  et  mieux  que  ce  qu'elle  a  voulu,,  nous  aussi  nous 
reconcilierons  avec  elle,  pour  tenter  de  reparer  son  mal,  autant 
qu'il  se  peut  reparer.  Et  quoiqu'elle  fasse  ou  qu'elle  ait  fait,  nous 
nous  rapellerons  qu'apres  tout  nous  lui  devons  la  vie,  si  nous  lui 
devons  la  mort,  la  vie  avec  ses  soufi'rances,  ses  angoisses,  avec 
ses  miseres  et  ses  crimes,  avec  tous  ses  mensonges,  avec  tout 
son  neant,  mais  aussi  avec  quelques  splendeurs,  quelques  illumi- 
nations fugitives,  et  quelques  tendresses  caressantes,  et  le  vague 
amour  d'Ophelie,  et  ces  sentiments  de  misericorde  et  de  justice, 
qu'elle,  inconsciente,  ne  connait  pas,  ou  qu'elle  ne  connait  que 
par  nous,  et  qui  en  nous  sont  nes  de  notre  rebellion  contre  elle." 

"En  tout,  je  vois  un  rythme  qui  tend  vers  la  beaute,  mais  quit 
trop  rarement  la  prout;  et  la  perception  de  ce  rythme,  plus  ou 
moins  apparent  dans  les  choses,  par  instants,  rassure  et  donne 
une  jouissance  infinie,  a  laquelle  se  vient  meler  cependant  une 
certaine  souflfrance  ou  melancolie,  celle  du  besoin  insatiss  fait  de  la 
beaut^  parfaite  en  toutes  choses." 


It  is  to  the  interest  of  every  subscriber 
to  The  Little  Revieiv  to  get  us  more  sub- 
scribers at  once,  for  the  simple  reason  that 
we  have  plenty  of  excellent  matter  on  hand 
waiting  to  be  printed.  The  larger  our 
subscription  list  the  more  we  can  give  you 
each  month. 

People  to  whom  the  May,  June  and 
July  numbers  have  been  sent  at  Mr. 
Pound's  request  will  not  receive  August 
unless  they  subscribe. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON.  Editor 

EZRA  POUND.  London  Editor 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW  ANNOUNCES  THE  FOLLOWING  CON- 
TRIBUTIONS TO  APPEAR  DURING  THE  NEXT  FOUR 
MONTHS: 

POEMS  by  WILLIAM  BUTLER  YEATS  in  August 
LETTERS  by  WYNDHAM  LEWIS 
POEMS  and  DIALOGUES  by  T.  S.  ELIOT 
EDITORIALS  and  DIALOGUES  by  EZRA  POUND 
MR.  JAMES  JOYCE  will  contribute  to  The  Little  Review  as  soon  as  cir- 
cumstances permit.     Editorials   in   The   Little   Review    will   respect  no  vested 
interests,  no  publishers'  interests,  no  aged    magazines   and    reviews,    nor    staffs 
of  the  same. 


Yearly  Subscription,  U.  S.  A.,  $1.50;  Canada,  $1.65; 
Great  Britain  and  other  Countries,   7/- 

THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

24  West   16th  Street.  New  York  City 
Foreign  Office:    5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  Kensington  W.  8,  London. 

Enclosed  find  $1.50  for  one  year's  subscription, 
beginning 

Name :•. 

Address 


Books 

We  have  been  forced  to  give  up  our  offices  at 
31  West  Fourteenth  Street  because  we  expressed 
ourselves  in  regard  to  the  trial  of  Emma  Goldman 
and  Alexander  Berkman. 

We  are  moving  to  24  West  Sixteenth  Street, 
where  we  will  continue  publishing  The  Little  Re- 
vieU}  and  running  our  BooJ^  Shop. 

You  may  buy  any  book  you  want  from  us;  you 
may  also  buy  books  which  you  can't  usually  find  at 
the  regular  book  stores.     For  instance: 

James  Joyce's  Chamber  Music 

Noh:  A  Study  of  the  Classic  Stage  of  Japan 

by   Ernest  Fenellesa   and   Ezra   Pound. 
Ezra   Pound's  Provenca  and   The  Spirit   of 

Romance 
Frederic  Maning's  Scenes  and  Portraits 
The  Second  number  of  Blast 
Ford  Madox  Hueffer's: 

Collected  Poems 
The  Soul  of  London 
Heart  of  the  Countr}) 
Memoirs  of  a  Young  Man 

The  Little  Review   Bookshop 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street 

New  York  City 


THE  ARTISTS'  GUILD 

A  NATIONAL   ORGANIZATION  INCORPORATED   ON   A 
"NOT   FOR   PROFIT  BASIS." 


Paintings,  Sculpture 

AND 

Handwrought  Objects 

As  security  for  the  purchaser  and  to  insure  merit,  all  works  are 
approved  by  a  jury. 


Exquisite  and  Rare  Gifts 


The  Arlists'  and  Craft  Workers'  own  organization 


GALLERIES,  EXHIBITION  AND  SALESROOMS 
FINE  ARTS  BUILDING  CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS 


i  Oil  and  ^Vater  Colors 

1  Brusnes  ana  Canvass 

I  Smocks  to  Order 


COLONY  ART  SHOP 

Artists'  Materials 

::<iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinunniuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiniuiiiuiii!iiim 


1  Interior  and  Exterior  Decorating 
I  Paper  rlanging 

I  Polishing  and  R.ennisBing 

I  of  Wood  Work 


nniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiMUHiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiniiim^ 


ADOLPH   KLAFF 

143  Sixth  Ave.,  NEW  YORK  CITY  Chelsea  1285 


Vi5it  our  stop   or  telephone   Spring   7591 


1 


W^indo^v  Boxes 

Plants 

Cut   Flowers 

Prepared   Earth 


Knickerbocker  Windo^v  Gardens 
1  SHERIDAN  SQUARE 
GREENWICH  VILLAGE 


i 


ECALL  that  golden  day  when  you  first  read  "  Huck  Finn  "? 
>•  How  your  mother  said,  "  For  goodness'  sake,  stop  laughing 
aloud  over  that  book.     You  sound  so  silly."     But  you  couldn't  stop  laughing. 

Today  when  you  read  "Huckleberry  Finn"  you  will  not  laugh  so  much.  You  will  chuckle 
often,  but  you  will  also  want  to  weep.  The  deep  humanity  of  it — the  pathos,  that  you 
never  saw,  as  a  boy,  will  appeal  to  you  now.  You  were  too  busy  laughing  to  notice  the 
limpid  purity  of  the  master's  style. 

When  Mark  Twain  first  wrote  "  Huckleberry  Finn  "  this  land  was  swept  with  a  gale 
of  laughter.     When  he  wrote  "  The  Innocents  Abroad  "  even  Europe  laughed  at  it  itself. 

But  one  day  there  appeared  a  new  book  from  his  pen,  so  spiritual,  so  true,  so  lofty  that 
those  who  did  not  know  him  well  were  amazed.  "  Joan  of  Arc  "  was  the  work  of  a  poet — 
a  historian — a  seer.  Mark  Twain  was  all  of  these.  His  was  not  the  light  laughter  of  a 
moment's  fun,  but  the  whimsical  humor  that  made  the  tragedy  of  life  more  bearable. 


A  Real  American 

Mark  Twain  was  a  steamboat  pilot. 
He  was  a  searcher  for  gold  in  the  far 
West.  He  was  a  printer.  He  worked 
bitterly  hard.  A[[  this  without  a  glim- 
mer of  the  great  destiny  that  lay  before 
him.  Then,  with  the  opening  of  the 
great  wide  West,  his  genius  tsloomed. 

His  fame  spread  through  the  nation. 
It  flew  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  until 
his  work  was  translated  into  strange 
tongues.  From- then  on,  the  path  of 
fame  lay  straight  to  the  high  places. 
At  the  height  of  his  fame  he  lost  all 
his  money.  He  was  heavily  in  debt, 
but  though  60  years  old,  he  started 
afresh  and  paid  every  cent.  It  was  the 
last  heroic  touch  that  drew  him  close 
to  the  hearts  of  his  countrymen. 

The  world  has  asked  is  there  an  .Ameri- 
can literature?  Mark  Twain  is  the  an- 
swer. He  is  the  heart,  the  spirit  of 
America.  From  his  poor  and  struggling 
boyhood  to  his  glorious,  splendid  old 
age,  he  remained  as  simple,  as  demo- 
cratic as  the  plainest  of  our  forefathers. 

He  was,  of  all  Americans,  the  most  Ameri- 
can. Free  in  soul,  and  dreaming  of  high 
things — brave  in  the  face  of  trouble — and  al- 
ways ready  to  laugh.    That  was  Mark  Twain. 

HARPER  &  BROTHERS,  New  York 


The  Price  Goes  Up 

OC  Vni  ITMFC   Novels — Stories  —  Humor 
CD    y\JluVinE40   Essays— Travel  —  History 

This  is  Mark  Twain's  own  set.  This  is  the  set  he 
wanted  in  the  home  of  each  of  those  who  love  him. 
Because  he  asked  it,  Harpers  have  worked  to  make 
a  perfect  set  at  a  reduced  price. 

Before  the  war  we  had  a  contract  price  for  paper, 
so  we  could  sell  this  set  of  Mark  Twain  at  half  price- 
Send  the  Coupon  Without  Money 

The  hst  of  the  edition  is  in  sight.  The  /j  p  t 
price  of  paper  has  gone  up.  There  can  /unoDco  » 
be  no  more  Mark  Twain  at  the  present  /  HArirtn  oc 
price.  There  never  again  will  be  /  BROTHERS 
any  more  Mark  Twain  at  the  pres.  /„ 
ent  price.  Get  the  25  volumes  X  •'ranklrn  Sq.,  K.  I. 
now,  while  you  can.  Every 
American  has  got  to  have  a  ^  Send  me,  all  charge 
set  of  Mark  Twain  in  his  /  prepaid,  a  set  of  Mark 
home.  Get  yours  now  /  Twain's  works  in  25 
and  save  money.  /,  volumes,   illustrated,    bound 

Tonr  children  want     /  ■"     handsome     green     cloth 


Mark  Twain, 
want  him.     Send 
this  coapon  to. 
day — now — 
while  yon 
are  look- 
ing at 
it. 


stamped  in  gold,  gold  tops  ana 
untrimmed  edges.     If  not  satisfac- 
ton',  I  will  return  them  at  j'our  ex- 
pense.  Otherwise  I  will  send  you  |1,C0 
ithin  5  days  and  $2.00  a  month  for  12 
months,  thus  getting  the  benefit  of  your 
half-price  sale.  Little  Review 


'Address . 


Special  Offer 


J 


AMES  JOYCE'S  A   Portrait  of  the   Artist  as  a    Your^ 
Man  and  a  year's  subscription  to  The  Little  Review  for  $2.50 

We  are  glad  to  announce  that  through  the  cour- 
tesy of  Mr.  Huebsch  we  are  able  to  make  the  follow- 
ing unusual  ofTer,  open  to  any  one  who  sends  in  a 
subscription  (or  a  renewal)  to  The  Little  Review: 

Mr.  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young 
Man,  the  most  important  and  beautiful  piece  of  | 
novel  writing  to  be  found  in  English  today,  retails  ♦( 
for  $1.50.  The  subscription  price  of  The  Little  Re-  l 
view  is  $1.50.  We  will  cut  the  latter  to  $1.00,  for  this  I 
special  oflfer,  and  you  may  have  the  book  and  the  I 
subscription  for  $2.50.  Or  you  may  have  Mr.  Joyce's 
Dubliners  instead. 


ORDER  FORM 

"A    PORTRAIT    OF    THE 
ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  MAN" 

'Please  send  me cop of 

A  PORTRAIT  OF  THE  ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  MAN 
by  James  Joyce,  published  by  Mr.  B.  W.  Huebsch,  for  which  I 

enclose 


N 


ame- 


Addr 


Orderi,  accompanied  b^  remiilance  should  be  sent  to 
THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 
31    West  14th  Street.  New  York  City 


THt  LITTLE 


A     MAGAZINE    OF     THE     ART 


Marqar< 


Upon 

Certain    Artists    Bi 
and  Drawings 
She  Turns;  the  Doll 


llasnn  $c  l^amliit 


THE    STRADIVARIUS   OF    PIANOS 


masnn  $c  l|amlut  QI0 


313    FIFTH   AVENUE 


NEW   YORK 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

WL.  IV.  AUGUST  1917  No.  4 

Seven  Poems 

William  Butler  Yeats 


Upon  a   Dying  Lady 

With  the  old  kindness,  the  old  distinguished  grace 
She  lies,  her  lovely  piteous  head  amid  dull  red  hair 
Propped  upon  pillows,  rouge  on  the  pallor  of  her  face. 
She  would  not  have  us  sad  because  she  is  lying  there, 
And  when  she  meets  our  gaze  her  eyes  are  laughter  lit 
Her  speech  a  wicked  tale  that  we  may  vie  with  her 
Matching  our  broken-hearted  wit  against  her  wit, 
Thinking  of  saints  and  of  Petronius  Arbiter. 


Certain  Artists  Bring  Her  Dolls  and  Drawings 

Bring  where  our  Beauty  lies 

A  new  modelled  doll,  or  drawing 

With  a  iriend's  or  an  enemy's 

Features,  or  may  be  showing 

Her  features  when  a  tress 

Of  dull  red  hair  was  flowing 

Over  some  silken  dress 

Cut  in  the  Turkish  fashion. 

Or  it  may  be  like  a  boy's. 

We  have  given  the  world  our  passion 

We  have  naught  for  death  but  toys. 


The    Little     Review 


She  Turns  the  Dolls'  Faces  to  the  Wall 

Because    to-day   is   some    religious    festival 

They  had  a  priest  say  Mass,  and  even  the  Japanese, 

Heel  u.p  and  weight  on  toe,  must  face  the  wall 

—  Pedant  in  passion,  learned  in  old  courtesies, 

Vehement  and  witty  she   had  seemed — ,  the  Venetian  lad 

Who  had  seemed  to  glide  to  some  intrigue  in  her  red  shoe.j 

Her  domino,  her  panniered  skirt  copied  from  Longhi, 

The  meditative  critic,  all  are  on  their  toes 

Even  our  Beautv  with  her  Turkish  trousers  on. 


Because  the  priest  must  have  like  every  dog  his  day 

Or  keep  us  all  awake  w^ith  baying  at  the  moon. 

We  and  our  dolls  being  but  the  world  were  best  away. 


She  is  playing  like  a  child 
And  penance  is  the  play, 
Fantastical  and  wild 
Because  the  end  of  day 
Shows  her  that  someone  soon 
Will  come  from  the  house,  and  say- 
Though  play  is  but  half  done — 
"Come  in  and  leave  the  play". 


She  has  not  grown  uncivil 

As  narrow  natures  would 

And  called  the  pleasures  evil  \ 

Happier  days  thought  good; 

She  knows  herself  a  woman 


The    Little    Review 


No  red  and  white  of  a  face, 

Or  rank,  raised  from  a  common 

Unreckonable  race. 

And  how  should  her  heart  fail  her 

Or  sickness  break  her  will 

With  her  dead  brother's  valour 

For  an  example  still. 


When  her  soul  flies  to  the  predestined  dancing-place 
(I  have  no  speech  but  symbol,  the  pagan  speech  I  made 
Amid  the  dreams  of  youth)  let  her  come  face  to  face, 
While  wondering  still  to  be  a  shade,  with  Crania's  shade, 
All  but  the  perils  of  the  woodland  flight  forgot, 
And  that  made  her  Dermuid  dear,  and  some  old  cardinal 
Pacing  with  half-closed  eyelids  in  a  sunny  spot 
vVho  had  murmured  of  Giorgione  at  his  latest  breath — 
]Aye  and  Achilles,  Timor,  Babar,  Barhaim  all 
bVhc  lived  in  shameless  joy  and  laughed  into  the  face  of  Death. 


Her  Friends  Bring  Her  a  Christmas  Tree 

Pardon,  great  enemy, 
Without  an  angry  thought 
,  W^e've  carried  in  our  tree. 
And  here  and  there  have  bought 
Till  all  the  boughs  are  gay, 
And  she  may  look  from  the  'bed 
On  .pretty  things  that  may 
Please  a  fantastic  head. 
Give  her  a  little  grace 
What  if  a  laughing  eye 
Have  looked  into  your  face — 
It  is  about  to  die. 


The     Little     Review 


List  of  Books 

Comment  by  Ezra  Pound 
Passages  from  the  Letters  of  John  Butler  Yeats. 

Ciiala  Press,  Diindriim,  Dublin.    12  shillings. 

rTNO  begin  with  one  of  the  more  recent;  1  have  ah'eady  sent  a 
LJLj  longer  review  of  John  Yeat's  letters  to  Poetry  on  the 
ground  that  this  selection  from  them  contains  much  valuable 
criticism  of  the  art  to  which  that  periodical  is  "devoted".  I 
again  call  attention  to  the  book  for  its  humanism,  for  its 
author's  freedom  from  the  disease  of  the  age.  It  is  good,  for 
Aitierica  in  particular,  that  some  even-minded  critic,  writing 
in  detachment,  without  thought  of  publication,  should  have 
recorded  his  meditations.  There  can  be  no  supposition  that 
he  hoped  to  start  a  social  reform.  Carlos  Williams  wrote  a 
few  years  ago : 

"Nowhere  the  subtle,  everywhere  the  electric".  Quibblers 
at  once  began  a  wrangle  about  the  subtlety  of  electricity.  We 
can  not  massacre  the  ergoteur  wholesale,  but  we  might  at 
least  learn  to  ignore  him ;  to  segregate  him  into  such  camps 
as  the  "New  Statesman"  and  the  "New  Republic";  to  leave 
him  with  his  system  of  "graduated  grunts"  and  his  critical 
"apparatus",  his  picayune  little  slot-machine. 

John  Yeats  writes  as  a  man  who  has  refused  to  be  stamp- 
eded ;  he  has  not  been  melted  into  the  crowd ;  the  "button- 
moulder"  has  not  remade  him.  He  praises  solitude  now  and 
then,  but  he  has  not  withdrawn  himself  into  a  pseudo-Tho- 
reauian  wilderness,  nor  attempted  romantesque  Borroviana. 
Lest  we  "of  this  generation  and  decade"  imagine  that  all 
things  began  with  us,  it  is  well  to  note  that  a  man  over  seventy 
has  freed  himself  from  the  effects  of  the  "Great  Exposition" 
and  of  Carlyle  and  W^ordswortli  and  Arnold — perhaps  he  never 
fell  under  the  marasmus. 

T  have  met  men  even  older  than  Mr.  John  Yeats,  men  whc 
remembered  the  writings  of  the  French  eigliteenth  century 
Thev  lir\H  endured  the  drough,  and  kept  a  former  age's  rich- 
ness.    When  T  sav  "remembered  the  writings  of  the  FrencB 


?a 


The     Little     Review 


eighteenth  century,"  I  mean  that  they  had  received  the  effect 
of  these  writings  as  it  were  at  hrst  hand,  they  had  got  it  out  of 
the  air;  there  is  a  later  set  who  took  it  up  as  a  speciality,  al- 
most a  fanaticism ;  they  are  different.  Then  there  came  the 
bad  generation ;  a  generation  of  sticks.  They  are  what  we 
have  liad  to  put  up  with. 


James  Joyce's  Novel,  t/h-  Egoist,  London. 

B.  IV.  Hucbsch,  New  York. 

A  PORTRAIT  of  the  Artist  us  a  Young  Man  was  so  well  re- 
viewed in  the  April  number  of  this  paper  that  I  might 
perhaps  refrain  from  further  comment.  I  have  indeed  little  to 
add,  but  I  would  reaflirm  all  that  I  have  yet  said  or  written 
of  the  book,  beginning  in  The  Egoist,  continuing  in  The 
Drama,  etc.  Joyce  is  the  best  prose  writer  of  my  decade. 
Wyndham  Lewis's  Tarr  is  the  only  contemporary  novel  that 
can  compare  with  A  Portrait;  Tarr  being  more  inventive,  more 
volcanic,  and  "not  so  well  written."  And  that  last  comparison 
is  iperhaps  vicious.  It  would  be  ridiculous  to  measure  Dos- 
toevsky  with  the  T-Square  of  Flaubert.  Equally  with  Joyce 
and  Lewis,  the  two  men  are  so  different,  the  two  methods  are 
so  different  that  it  is  rash  to  attempt  comparisons.  Neither 
can  I  attem.pt  to  predict  which  will  find  the  greater  number 
of  readers ;  all  the  readers  who  matter  will  certainly  read  both 
of  the  books. 

As  for  Joyce,  perhaps  Jean  de  Bosschere  will  pardon  me  if 
I  quote  from  a  post  card  which  he  wrote  me  on  beginning 
A  Portrait.  It  was,  naturally,  not  intended  for  publication, 
but  it  is  interesting  to  see  how  a  fine  piece  of  English  first 
strikes  the  critic  from  the  continent. 

"Charles  Louis  Philippe  n'a  .pas  fait  mieux.  Joyce  le  de- 
.passe  par  le  style  qui  n'est  plus  le  style.  Cette  nudite  de  tout 
ornement  rhetorique,  de  toute  forme  idiomatique  (malgre  la 
plus  stricte  severite  contre  le  detour  ou  I'esthetique)  et  beau- 
coup  d'autres  qualites  fondamentales  font  de  ce  livre  la  plus 
serieuse  oeuvre  anglaise  que  j'aie  lue.  Les  soixante  premieres 
pages  sont  incomparables " 

The  "most  serious",  or  to  translate  it  more  colloquially : 
"It  matters  more  than  any  other  English  book  I  have  read". 


The    Little    Review 


De  Bosschere  has  not  yet  published  any  criticism  of  Joyce, 
but  he  is  not  the  only  established  critic  who  has  written  to  me 
in  praise  of  A  Portrait..  Joyce  has  had  a  remarkable  "press," 
but  back  of  that  and  much  more  important  is  the  fact  that  the 
critics  have  praised  with  conviction,  a  personal  and  vital  con- 
viction. 

3  ; 

Certain   Noble   Plays   of  Japan.  ' 

Cuala  Press,  Dublin.    12  shillings. 

Noh,    or    Accomplishment. 

Knopf,  New  York,  $2.2^.   Macmillan,  London. 

THE  earlier  and  limited  edition  of  this  wrok  of  Ernest  Fe- 
nollosa  contains  four  plays,  with  an  introduction  by 
W.  B.  Yeats.  The  larger  edition  contains  fifteen  plays  and 
abridgements  and  all  of  Fenollosa's  notes  concerning  the  Jap- 
anese stage  that  I  have  yet  been  able  to  prepare  for  publica- 
tion. This  Japanese  stuff  has  not  the  solidity,  the  body,  of 
Rihaku  (Li  Po).  It  is  not  so  important  as  the  Chinese  work 
left  by  Fenollosa,  but  on  the  other  hand  it  is  infinitely  better 
than  Tagore  and  the  back-wash  from  India.  Motokiyo  and 
the  fourteenth-century  Japanese  poets  are  worth  more  than 
Kabir.  Fenollosa  has  given  us  mor.e  than  Tagore  has.  Japan 
is  not  a  Chinese  decadence.  Japan  "went  on  with  things''  after 
China  had  quit.  And  'China  "cjuit"  fairly  early:  T'ang  is  the 
best  of  her  poetry,  and  after  Sung  her  art  grows  steadily 
weaker. 

It  would  be  hard  to  prove  tliat  thq^lapanese  does  not  attempt 
(in  Jiis  art,  that  is)  to  die  in  aromatic  pain  of  the  cherry  blos- 
som;  but  his  delicacy  is  not  always  a  weakness.  His  preoc- 
cupation with  nuances  may  set  one  against  him.  Where  a 
Cliinese  poet  shows  a  sort  of  rugged  endurance,  the  Japanese 
dramatist  ])resents  a  fine  point  of  pimctilio.  He  is  "roman- 
ticist" against  the  "classical"  and  poetic  matter-of-factness  of 
the  Chinese  writer.  The  sense  of  punctilio  is,  so  far  as  T  can 
make  out,  a  Japanese  characteristic,  and  a  differentiating  char- 
acteristic, and  from  it  the  Japanese  poetry  obtains  a  quality  of 
its  own. 


The     Little     Review 


The  'poetic  sense,  almost  the  sole  thing  which  one  can  postu- 
late as  underlying  all  great  poetry  and  indispensible  to  it,  is 
simply  the  sense  of  overwhelming  emotional  values.  (For 
those  who  must  have  definitions :  Poetry  is  a  verbal  statement 
of  emotional  values.  A  poem  is  an  emotional  value  verbally 
stated.)  In  the  face  of  this  sense  of  emotional  values  there  are 
no  national  borders.  One  can  not  consider  Rihaku  as  a  for- 
igner,  one  can  only  consider  him  human.  One  can  not  con- 
sider Odysseus,  or  Hamlet,  or  Kagekiyo  as  foreigners,  one  can 
only  consider  them  human. 

At  one  point  in  the  Noh  (plays,  namely  in  the  climax  of 
Kagekiyo  we  find  a  truly  Homeric  laughter,  and  I  do  not 
think  the  final  passages  of  this  play  will  greatly  suffer  by  any 
comparison  the  reader  will  be  able  to  make.  If  I  had  found 
nothing  else  in  Fenollosa's  notes  I  should  have  been  well  paid 
for  the  three  years  I  have  spent  on  them. 

If  I  dispraise  Tagore  now  I  can  only  say  that  I  was  among 
the  first  to  praise  him  before  he  became  a  popular  fad.  The 
decadence  of  Tagore  may  be  measured.  His  first  translations 
were  revised  by  W.  B.  Yeats ;  later  translations  by  Evelyn 
Underbill,  facilis  et  perfacilis  descensus,  and  now  they  say  he 
has  taken  to  writing  in  English,  a  language  for  which  he  has 
no  special  talent.  If  his  first  drafts  contained  such  cliches  as 
"sunshine  in  my  soul",  he  was  at  least  conscious  at  that  time  of 
his  defects.  Praise  was  rightly  given  to  his  first  poems  be- 
cause it  was  demonstrated  and  demonstrable  that  they  were 
well  done  in  Bengali,  i.  e.  that  they  were  written  in  a  )precise 
and  objective  language,  and  in  a  metric  full  of  interest  and 
variety.  The  popular  megaphone  took  up  phrases  made  to  de- 
fine the  originals  and  applied  them  to  the  translations.  Im- 
agine a  criticism  of  Herrick  and  Campion  applied  to  a  French 
or  German  prose  translation  of  these  poets,  however  excellent 
as  a  translation  in  prose !  As  the  vulgarizer  hates  any  form 
of  literary  excellence,  he  was  well  content  with  obscuring  the 
real  grounds  for  praise.  The  unimportant  element,  that  which 
has  made  Tagore  the  prey  of  religiose  nincompoops,  might 
easily  have  passed  without  comment.  However,  it  has  ^proved 
the  baccillus  of  decay.  Sir  Rabindranath  having  been  raised 
in  a  country  Vi^here  the  author  need  not  defend  himself  against 
■blandishment.  .  .  .1  mean  the  force  of  the  babu  press  is  scarcely 
enough  to  turn  anyone's  head  or  his  judgement. . .  .Sir  Rabin- 


/  1 


lo  The     Little     Review 

dranath  is  not  particularly  culpable.  His  disciples  may  bear 
the  blame  as  best  they  may ;  along  with  his  publishers.  But  no 
old  established  publishing  house  cares  a  damn  about  literature; 
and  once  Tagore  had  become  a  commercial  property,  they 
could  scarcely  be  expected  to  care  for  his  literary  integrity. 

He  might  still  wash  and  be  clean ;  that  is  to  say  there  is  still 
time  for  him  to  suppress  about  three  fourths  of  the  stuff  he 
has  published  in  English,  and  retain  some  sort  of  literary 
position.  < 

Another  mart  who  stands  in  peril  is  Edgar  Masters.  He  did 
a  good  job  in  The  Spoon  River  Anthology.  What  is  good  in 
it  is  good  in  common  with  like  things  in  the  Greek  anthology, 
Villon  and  Crabbe :  plus  Masters's  sense  of  real  people.  The 
work  as  a  whole  needs  rewriting.  The  difference  between  a 
fine  poem  and  a  mediocre  one  is  often  only  the  fact  that  the 
good  poet  could  force  himself  to  rewrite.  "No  appearance  af 
labour?"  No,  tit^re  need  be  no  appearance  of  labour.  I  have 
seen  too  many  ea.rly  drafts  of  known  and  accepted  poems  not 
to  know  the  difference  between  a  draft  and  the  final  work. 
Masters  must  go  back  and  take  the  gobbetts  of  magazine  cliche 
out  of  his  later  work ;  he  must  spend  more  time  on  Spoon 
River  if  he  wants  his  stuff"  to  last  as  (^rabbe's  Borough  has 
lasted.  There  is  a  great  gulph  between  a  "successful"  book 
and  a  book  that  endures;  that  endures  even  a  couple  of  cen- 
turies. 

T  would  not  at  any  cost  minimize  what  Edgar  Masters  lias 
done,  but  his  fight  is  not  yet  over. 


The  Interpretation  of  the  Music  of  the  XVIIth  and 
XVII  1th   Centuries,   by   Arnold    Dolmetsch. 

Novella,  London.    W.  H.  Gray,  New  York. 

ARNOLD  DOLiMETSC.IT.S  book  has  been  out  lor  some 
time.  No  intelligent  musician  would  willingly  remain 
without  it.  No  intelligent  musician  is  wholly  without  interest 
in  the  music  of  those  two  centuries.  But  this  book  is  more  than 
a  technical  guide  to  musicians.  It  is  not  merely  "full  of  sugges- 
tion" for  the  thorough  artist  of  any  sort,  but  it  shows  a  way 
whereby  the  musician  and  the  "intelligent"  can  once  more  be 
brought  into  touch.    If  Dolmetsch  could  be  persuaded  to  write 


The    Little    Review  ii 


a  shilling-  manual  for  the  instruction  of  children  and  of  mis- 
taught  elders  it  might  save  the  world's  ears  much  torture. 
Dolmetsch's  initial  move  was  to  demonstrate  that  the  music  of 
the  old  instruments  could  not  be  given  on  the  piano ;  any  more 
than  you  could  give  violin  music  on  the  piano.  His  next  was 
to  restore  the  old  instruments  to  us.  There  is  too  much  intel- 
ligence in  him  and  his  book  adequately  to  be  treated  in  a  par- 
agraph. I  am  writing  of  him  at  greater  length  in  The  Egoist. 
His  citations  from  Couperin  show  the  existence  of  vers  libre 
in  early  eighteenth-century  music.  I  do  not  however  care 
unduly  to  stir  up  the  rather  uninteresting  discussion  as  to  the 
archaeology  of  "free"  verse. 


5 
Prufrock  and  Other  Observations,  by  T.   S.   Eliot. 

The  Egoist,  London.    One  shilling. 

^HE  book-buyer  can  not  do  better. 


T' 


Frost  tinges  the  jasper  terrace, 

A  fine  stork,  a  black  stork  sings  in  the  heaven, 

Autumn  is  dee,p  in  the  valley  of  Hako, 

The  sad  monkeys  cry  out  in  the  midnight,  ^ 

The  mountain  pathway  is  lonely. 

....  The  red  sun  blots  on  the  sky  the 
line  of  the  colour-drenched  mountains.  The 
flowers' rain  in  a  gust;  it  is  no  racking  storm 
that  comes  over  this  green  moor,  which  is 
afloat,  as  it  would  seem,  in  these  waves. 

Wonderful  is  the  sleeve  of  the  white 
clo*ud,  whirling  such  snow  here. 

— From  "Noh",  by  Ernest  Fenollosa  and  Ezra  Pound. 
Pound. 


12  The    Little     Review 


Theatre  Muet 

John    Rodker 
Interior 

Black  Curtain. 

In  one  corner  the  picture  of  a  door. 

A  man  in  black  tights  (so  that  only  his  face  is  seen  and  the 

outlines  of  his  body  divined)  crosses  the  stage. 

•He  ipasses  through  the  door. 

We  follow  him  because  the  curtain  is  raised. 

Black  room. 

Again   he   crosses  the   stage   and   striking  a  match,  lights  a 

gas  jet  at  his  own  height  with  great  deliberation. 

Man  goes  off  unseen. 

Three  chairs  become  apparent. 

They  are  in  a  line — two  kitchen  chairs — 

once  white — dirty. 

One — old — beautiful — 

highly  polished. 

In  the  flickering  light  the  three  chairs  grow 

unutterably  mounful. 

II 

Hunger 

The  Celestial  Quire. 

The  lambent  sea-green  flames  that  are  the  celestial  quire 

burn  shrilly,  striving.  . .  . 

They  describe  the  circle  which  is  Kosmos,  swirling  shrilly. 

When  they  writhe  it  is  outside  three-dimensioned  space. 

Forever  they  retufn  in  their  orbits. 

Forever  they  return  in  their  orbits. 

If  they  writhe  at  all,  it  is  outside  the  three-diri'iensioned  spaces. 

They  do  not  touch  each  other.    They  do  not  clash  with  each 

other. 

Nor  is  there  light  in  Space. 


The    Little    Review  13 


III 

A  room.    Sombre  faces  of  i,  2,  and  4  (women)  in  profile. 

Man  (3)  with  back  to  audience. 

They  are  seated  round  a  gas  fire. 

Glow  seen  through  legs  and  chair  legs. 

A  silent  duel  in  progress  between  i  and  3  seated  diagonally. 

2  and  4,  more  or  less  neutral,  obscure  issue. 

Conversation  clockwise  (need  not  be  materialised). 

1.  "What  shall  it  be  then,  Cerise?" 

2.  "It  was  a  lovely  party." 

3.  "Pouf"  (lights  a  cigarette). 

4.  Sighs  (blow  out  smoke). 
Silence. 

Conversation  resumed.  Same  things  more  or  less.  The  man's 
back  becomes  inimical,  hating  i.  His  back  muscles  prepare 
to  spring  and  so  ripple  to  crouch. 

1  trembles,  fearful.  Tries  to  talk  to  show  her  nonchalance, 
fails.    Her  heart  beats  thud,  thud,  thud. 

2  and  4  neutral,  disturb  invmic  waves. 

The  man  loses  his  tenseness.  Obscurely  he  collects  all  his 
forces  for  a  final  overwhelming,  but  they  dissipate  among  2 
and  4  (neutral).  4  now  becomes  sympathetic  to  him  and  so 
drains  more  vitality,  i  stiffens,  gathers,  that  2  is  her  ally. 
Also  4  unconsciously. 

]\Ian  rises  to  his  feet.     For  a  moment  tries  to  gather  vitality 
through  firm  feet  and  twitching  fingers. 
His  shoulders  fall,  he  stumbles  out. 
Three  sighs  of  relief. 

Conversation : 

1.  What  shall  it  be? 

2.  Such  a  lot  of  men ! 

Hours  later : 

I  in  bed.    Mass  of  shadow  on  white  sheets. 

Cannot  sleep,  tosses  about. 

Attack  of  nerves. 

One  feels  it  has  gone  on  for  hours. 

She  seeks  relief. 


14  The     Little     Review 


IV 

To  S.  E.  R. 

Man  and  Woman,  face  to  face.  Same  height.  Woman  facing 
audience. 

Woman  mad,  breathing  heavily,  whites  of  eyes  showing,  strik- 
ing man  in  face,  once.,  twice. 

His  back  is  to  audience.  No  muscle  of  it  moves.  (Inert — a 
crumbling  block  of  salt). 

Her  madness  drops.  His  passivity  makes  her  doubt  his  reality 
— then  her  own. 

In  the  uncertain  pause,  she  is  again  assured  of  her  reality. 
More  blows,  same  effects. 
Tears  blind  her,  she  dashes  them  away. 
More  blows,  face  distorted. 
Still  same  effects. 

The   ubiquitous   man,   appearing  and   reappearing    (real   and 
phantom)  before  her  strained  eyes  makes  them  water. 
She  feels  it  a  weakness — swallows.  Another  weakness. 
Stares  dully  at  the  figure  before  lier. 
Impotence  realised — weeps. 

Weeps  loudly  and  slobberingly  and  hopelessly  like  a  whipped 
child. 

Weeps  more  loudly  yet,  more  hopelessly :  with  distorted  mus- 
cles, copious  tears  and  lengthening  and  coarsening  of  upper 
lip. 

Such  lack  of  control  is  intolerable. 
Members  of  the  audience  want  to  strike  each  other. 

A  few  women  weep  too,  in  identical  pitch. 

It  becomes  a  panic  spreading  suddenly. 

The  men  leave  quickly,  swallowing  hard.       . 

Audience  ^"^   "^^"    throws   a   brickbat   at   the   inert f 

Intellectual  ^^^^'  ^^^^  another. 

and  otherwise.        S^['^'^^"  *.^^  •''''"^-   ^ 

When  he  smks  stoned,  expirmg — a  yell  of 

exultation  rises  from  the  men — long  sighs 

of  relief  from  the  women. 

"A  N  T  I  C  H  R  I  S  T" 


Outside  the  Theatre — weeping:  fitful,  intolerable — mounts 
from  street  to  street  and  star  to  .star  in  festoons  of  distin« 
guished  and  unutterable  melancholy. 


The     Little     Review 


15 


V 


I. 


Thick  twilight.  A  long  row  of  houses,  several  storeys  high. 
All  have  area  railings  and  steps  leading  up  to  the  front  door. 
One  light  in  a  top  window  a  third  of  the  way  down  the  block. 
A  drab  yellow  light  also  works  through  glass  of  street  door. 
A  woman  walks  (bent)  on  the  pavement  in  front  of  these 
houses  hovering  undecidedly,  evidently  fearful. 
Then  she  draws  herself  together  and  climbs  the  steps  leading 
to  the  lit  door. 

She  waits  shuffling  from  foot  to  foot,  seeming  undecided  — 
(she  has  rung  the  bell). 

The  door  opens  a  little,  a  wedge  of  light  moves  out  and  a  dark 
figure  appears  for  a  moment  breaking  it.    They  talk  for  a  few 
seconds,  and  both  enter.     The  door  shuts  .  A  wedge  of  dark- 
ness passes  across  the  lit  panes. 
The  light  works  out  tranquilly  again. 


.Stairs  dimly  lit,  narrow,  carpeted.     The  figure  climbs,  climbs, 
climbs — foreboding,  distrust  and  fear  at  every  point. 


A  room — walls  dark  red ;  small,  stuffy,  unbearable. 

The  woman  stands  uneasily  just  inside  the  door — waiting. 

The  room  is  full  of  impending  tragedy. 

Influences  are  in  the  room  and  in  the  next  room. 

Tragedy  becomes  apparent  in  the  woman's  ipose. 

She  waits. 

Nothing  happens. 

With  dramatic  suddenness,  her  body  droops — she  cringes. 

(Nothing,  nothing,  NOTHING  happens). 

Curtain — A-ery  quietly,  like  a  sigh,  so  that  it  is  some  seconds 

before  audience  realises  that  play  is  over. 


i6  The    Little    Review 

Stark   Realism 

This    Little    Pig    Went    to    Market 

(A  Search  for  the  National  Type) 

Ezra   Pound 

THIS  little  American  went  to  Vienna.  He  said  it  was 
I  "Gawd's  Own  City".  He  knew  all  the  bath-houses  and 
dance  halls.  He  was  there  for  a  week.  He  never  forgot  it — 
No,  not  even  when  he  became  a  Captain  in  the  Gt.  American 
Navy  and  spent  six  months  in  Samoa. 

This  little  American  went  West — to  the  Middle-West,  where 
he  came  from.  He  smoked  cigars,  for  cigarettes  are  illegal 
in  Indiana,  that  land  where  Lew  Wallace  died,  that  land  of 
the  literary  tradition.  He  ate  pie  of  all  sorts,  and  read  the 
daily  papers — especially  those  of  strong  local  interest.  He 
despised  European  culture  as  an  indiscriminate  whole. 
Peace  to  his  ashes. 

This  little  American  went  to  the  great  city  Manhattan.  He 
made  two  and  half  dollars  per  week.  He  saw  the  sheeny  girls 
on  the  East  Side  who  lunch  on  two  cents  worth  of  bread  and 
sausages,  and  dress  with  a  flash  on  the  remainder.  He  nearly 
died  of  it.  Then  he  got  a  rise.  He  made  fifteen  dollars  per  week 
selling  insurance.  He  wore  a  monocle  with  a  tortoise-shell 
rim.  He  dressed  up  to  "Bond  St."  No  lord  in  The  Row  has 
surpassed  him. 

He  was  a  damn  good  fellow. 

This  little  American  went  to  Oxford.  He  rented  Oscar's  late 
rooms.  He  talked  about  the  nature  of  the  Beautiful.  He 
swam  in  the  wake  of  Santyana.  He  had  a  great  cut  glass  bowl 
full  of  lilies.  He  believed  in  Sin.  His  life  was  immaculate. 
He  was  the  last  convert  to  Catholicism. 

This  little  American  had  always  heen  adored — and  quite  silent. 
He  was  quite  bashful.  He  rowed  on  his  college  crew.  He  had 
a  bright  .pink  complexion.    He  was  a  dealer  in  bonds,  hut.  not 


The    Little    Review  17 


really  wicked.  He  would  walk  into  a  mans'  office  and  say : 
""Do  you  want  any  stock?,  .eh.  . .  .  eh  . .  I  don't  know  anything 
about  it.  They  say  it's  all  right."  Some  people  like  that  sort 
of  thing;  though  it  isn't  the  "ideal  business  man"  as  you  read 
of  him  in  Success  and  in  Mr.  Lorimer's  papers. 

This  little  American  had  rotten  luck ;  he  was  educated — 
soundly  and  thoroughly  educated.  His  mother  always  bought 
his  underwear  by  the  dozen,  so  that  he  should  be  thoroughly 
supplied.  He  went  from  bad  to  worse,  and  ended  as  a  dish- 
washer; always  sober  and  industrious;  he  began  as  paymaster 
in  a  copper  mine.  He  made  hollow  tiles  in  Michigan. 
His  end  was  judicious. 

This  little  American  spoke  through  his  nose,  because  he  had 
catarrh  or  consum.ption.  His  scholastic  merits  were  obvious. 
He  studied  Roumanian  and  Arumaic.  He  married  a  papal 
countess. 

Peace  to  his  ashes. 

This  little  American  ....  l)ut  who  ever  heard  of  a  baby  with 
seven  toes. 

This  story  is  over. 


V-e  r  s  e  s 

Iris  Barry 
His  Girl 

The  bigger  boys,  gathered  round  the  gates  in  the  dusk, 

Watch   her  walk  away  with  their  teacher. 

They   stop   shouting,   somewhat  astonished 

That  she  should  wait  for  him  in  the  cold. 

They  do  not  see  very  much  in  him  themselves 

And  stare,  commiserating  the  stupidity  of  woman. 


The     Little     Review 


Widow 

Monica   may   well    modulate   her   voice 
And  ipose  as  a  charming  and  sympathetic  person. 
Everyone  knows  she  has  had  two  husbands 
And  driven   both   to  a  lasting-  great  distance. 


At  the  Ministry 

September  1916 

Having  received  the  last  volume  of  a  certain  poet     ' 

I  look  out  of  the  office  window — 

Coloured  shirts:  green,  blue,  red,  grey: 

Men  in  coloured  shirts  moving  heavy  thjngs  with  deliberation 

Out  there  in  the  sun. 

The  junior  typist  cries  ecstatically 

On  seeing  the  costly  photogravure  of  the  author, 

Clasping  her  hands  and  flushing. 

But  I  sit  and  look  out  at  the  irregular  wandering  shirts, 

At  the  men  unloading  projectiles 

And  storing  them  in  the  dark  sheds. 


The  Black  Fowl 

Black  fowl,  perching, 

I  have  seen  nothing  more  beautiful  than  your  plumbs. 

It  should  be  pleasant  to  nestle  luxuriously  in  that  rich  black. 

But  there  is  no  joy  in  the  winking  eye  that  watches  me 

As  you  stand  there  perching. 


The    Little     Review  19 

At  the  Hotel 

While  at  table 

Or  chatting"  con\entionally  in  the  drawing-room 

She  eyes  him. 

They  are  seen  together  everywhere 

Husband  and  wife. 

Nothing  but  her  vigilance  binds  them. 

Her  smoothness  sickens  him : 

She  is  not  even  successful. 

She  may  keep  his  body  to  her  bed — 

It  is  easier  than  a  scene  and  remonstrances. 

Towards  dawn  he  turns,  smiling, 
Dreaming  of  a  girl  on  the  hotel-staff. 
.(Already  he  has  trifled  with  her  in  his  heart). 


Towards  the   End 

Others  might  find   inspiration  and   wide   content 

In  this  mellow  kitchen,  the  beams  and  washed  walls, 

Flagged  floor  lit  by  the  log-glow : 

But  the  beetles  and  mice  appreciate  it  more  than  I. 

And  my  Mother  is  bored  to  death, 

(She  keeps  putting  records  on  the  gramaphone) 

Even   grandfather   eating   his   supper   by   the   jumping   light 

from  the  hearth 
Hardly  seems  to  enjoy  his  food. 
Very  patriarchal-benign  he  looks.        ^ 
Somehow  his  shadow  on  the  wall  awes  me  in  its  grandeur 
As  though  he  might  not  be  here  long, 
And  the  beetles  and  mice  come  into  their  own  very  shortly. 


20  T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Rev  iew 


What  the  Public  Doesn't  Want 

Margaret  Anderson 

AMERICA  is  a  confounding  place. 
About  four  years  ago  I  wanted  to  start  a  magazine. 
Two  things  in  life -interest  me  more  than  other  things:     Art 
and  good  talk  about  Art.    The  Little  Review  was  launched  as  an 
organ  of  those  two  interests. 

For  three  years,  at  irreglar  intervals,  it  reflected  my  concern 
about  various  other  matters.  When  I  got  incensed  over  the 
sufTferings  of  what  is  called  the  proletariat  I  preached  pro- 
found platitudes  about  justice  and  freedom.  I  had  always  had 
the  sense  to  know  that  all  people  can  be  put  into  two  classes: 
the  exceptional  and  the  average.  But  when  I  decided  that  the 
only  way  to  prevent  the  exceptional  from  being  sacrificed  to 
the  average  was  for  everybody  to  become  anarchists,  I 
preached  the  simple  and  beautiful  but  quite  uninteresting 
tenents  of  anarchism.  I  have  long  given  them  up.  I  still  grow 
violent  with  rage  about  the  things  that  are  "wrong",  and 
probably  always  shall.  But  I  know  that  anarchism  won't  help 
them.  I  have  known  good  anarchists  who  are  as  dull  as  any 
other  good  laymen.  And  I  have  no  interest  in  laymen.  Only 
sensibility  matters. 

I  had  always  known  that  education  doesn't  produce  sensi- 
bility, but  I  came  to  think  that  something  could  produce  it. 
Now  I  know  that  nothing  under  the  heavens  will  make  anV 
one  sensitive  if  he  is  not  born  that  way. 

I  had  always  known  that  people  didn't  want  Art,  but  I  im- 
agined that  they  would  be  glad  to  be  made  to  want  it.  Now  I 
know  that  they  are  "not  merely  indififerent  to  it :  tliey  hate  it 
■malignantly". 

Therefore,  to  sum  up:  all  these  ideas  were  not  interesting 
enough  to  have  bothered  about. 

But  the  curious  thing  about  America  is  that  while  she 
thinks  such  insipid  and  ipleasant  and  harmless  ideas  are  abom- 
inable and  dangerous,  she  also  thinks  they  are  interesting! 

Any  magazine  that  concerns  itself  with  such  ideas  is  sure 
to  get  an  audience.  Your  audience  will  think  that  you  are 
crazy  or  that  you  want  a  sensation,  or,  what  is  worse,  tliat 
you  are  a  sort  of  "Pollyanna"  throwing  sunshine  and  (>])tinii>m 


The     Little     Review  21 


into  dark  places  in  order  to  help  the  world.  But  it  will  be 
interested  in  reading  you  for  one  reason  or  another. 

And  now  ,after  working  through  unbelievable  aridness 
The  Little  Review  has  at  last  arrived  at  the  place  from  which 
I  wanted  it  to  start.  At  last  we  are  printing  stuff  which  is 
creative  and  inventive,  and,  thank  heaven,  not  purely  local. 
The  audience  mentioned  above,  in  the  aggregate,  resents  it.We 
no  longer  interest  that  audience.  The  layman  says  that  we  are 
now  given  over  to  the  bizarre  and  the  "aesthetic"  (that  adjec- 
tive which  in  America  means  something  vaguely  inconsequen- 
tial, if  not  something  shameless  and  immoral).  People  who 
like  to  "help"  magazines  with  "artistic"  leanings  are  not  to  be 
allured  by  Art.  People  who  can't  prove  that  they  know  any- 
thing about  good  letters  dare  to  tell  us  that  we  don't  know 
an3^thing  about  them.  Editors  who  make  it  a  point  of  honor 
to  discover  artistic  value  in  the  work  of  their  contemporaries 
feel  that  we  are  meticulous  and  too  "arty".  And  tee  writers 
themselves  are  the  most  absurd.  Maxwell  Bodenheim  writes 
that  he  "knows"  Ezra  Pound  judges  poetry  on  the  basis  of  his 
personal  dislikes.  That  is  as  necessarily  untrue  as  anything 
can  be.  An}^  one  who  is  unwilling  to  praise  what  seems  to  him 
.unworthy  of  praise,  anyone  whose  interest  in  a  poet's  work 
abates  when  the  work  shows  no  signs  of  further  progress — any 
such  critic  will  come  in  for  this  kind  of  slander.  Any  such  cri- 
tic will  get  himself  talked  about  the  way  people  love  to  talk  in 
New  York :  if  you  try  to  discuss  a  man's  work  with  them  they 
say  "that  man  is  my  enemy",  or  "that  man  is  my  friend". 
It's  very  puzzling :  the}^  seem  to  think  their  remarks  have 
something  to  do  with  literature. 

Another  remarkable  thing  that  happens  in  New  York:  if  you 
walk  upon  the  street  with  a  sensitive  and  rare  and  dis- 
tinguished person  you  will  find  that  he  attracts  more  curious 
and  resentful  attention  than  the  most  badly-made,  the  most 
atrociously  dressed,  or  the  most  grotesquely  deformed  human 
beings  who  surround  him. 

But  this  is  the  attitude  of  all  America. 

T  have  made  several  thoughtless  statements  about  "Help  us 
to  make  The  Little  Review  a  power",  etc.  I  know  that  nothing 
on  earth  will  do  that  except  our  own  contents.  They  tell  me 
that  Henle}^  was  a  power  in  England  with  The  National  Ob- 
server when  its.  circulation  had  shrunk  to  eighty  subscribers^. 
I  should  be  willing  to  pursue  dominion  even  to  that  point,  but 


22  The    Little    Review 


it  will  probably  not  be  necessary.     Our  circulation  grows  in 
spite  of  criticism  and  misunderstanding. 

You  can  help  us  to  give  you  more  each  month  by  sub- 
scribing for  your  friends  who  are  interested  in  a  magazine 
which  is  not  interested  in  the  public  taste. 


Orientale 

Louis  Gilmore 

Wil't  thou  listen 

To  the  voices  of  peacocks; 

Or  would'st  thou  prefer  that  the  cats 

Perform  a  nocturnal  serenade? 

This  is  no  common 

Entertainment 

That  I  have  prepared  for  thee, 

Indifferent  one. 

The  columns  are  smeared 
With  'fire-flies, 

And  the  glow-worms  shed  a  light 
Among  the  dishes.... 

But  first  let  the  slaves 
Anoint  thee  with  what 
Has  lain  a  long  while 
In  the  sun ; 

Or  with  this 
Thou  perceive'st 
In  a  yellow 
Vial. 


The     Little     Review  23 


A.  R.  S.: 


The   Reader    Critic 

Oddities? 


I  have  found  The  Little  Review  excessively  burdened  with  what 
you  describe  as  "stuff  in  which  the  creative  element  is  present".  In- 
deed my  impression  is  that  it  is  devoted  more  to  invention  than  to 
interpretation,  and  therein  misses  its  calling  as  an  agency  of  "Art". 
And  a-s  to  quality,  it  is  not  my  understanding  that  "Art"  is  necessarily, 
or  usually,  insipid  or  bizarre,  as  represented  in  your  publication. 
These  are  times  for  men  to  be  attending  to  more  serious  things  than 
aesthetic  oddi'.ies. 

[The  above  letter  was  written  to  us  by  one  of  the  front  citizens 

0/  a   large   city,  on   his  club   stationary, a   men's   club   where    old 

Betties  gossip  and  criticize  women's  clothes.  Yet  he  would  say  to 
men  like  Wyndham  Lewis,  and  other  of  our  contributors  now  in  the 
trenches,  that  these  are  times  for  men  to  be  attending  to  more  seri- 
ous things  than  aesthetic  oddities. 

-  How  smoothly  he  has  set  down  the  attitude  of  the  great  average 
mind  toward  Art.  No,  I  cannot  say  average.  Average  implies  varia- 
tion. It  is  the  perfect  contempt  of  the  elderly  gentleman  art  patron 
for  the  creative  and  the  original.  From  long  years  of  supporting 
museums  oi  art,  the  city  beautiful  plan,  opera  organizations,  etc.,  he 
acquires  the  attitude  of  the  affluent  married  man  toward  his  wife: 
whatever  is  supported  by  him  must  necessarily  be  a  thoroughly 
understood  subject,  and  even  if  inferior,  must  be  the  interpreter  of 
his  life. — jh.] 

Radicalism  and  Conservatism 

M.  L.  K.: 

I  am  renewing  my  subscription  to  The  Little  Review,  though  I 
don't  know  just  why.  I  don't  understand  you  very  well  any  more. 
I  don't  know  whether  I  approve.  You  used  to  be  very  different. 
Sometimes  you  were  great.  Your  own  article  "Life  Itself"  and  Ben 
Hecht's  "Dregs"  I  shall  always  remember.  Yon  used  to  show  such 
fine  sympathy  for  all  kinds  of  social  suffering.  I  cannot  see  how  a 
magazine  devoted  only  to  what  you  call  Art  can  have  a  very  vital 
sliare  in  the  solving  of  our  present  great  problems.     This  is  such  a 


24  T  li  e     Little     Review 


splendid  opportunity  for  your  radicalism 


[Conservatism:  to  preserve  the  best.  As  a  term  of  abuse,  to 
preserve  good  and  bad  indiscriminately. 

r^adicalism:  to  get  to  the  root  of  the  matter.  Usuallj'^  to  eradi- 
cate good  and  bad  indiscriminately. 

Besides  they  are  terms  tilth}'  from  contact  with  politics. — /'.  E.] 

Too  British 

V.  //.,  Maine: 

I  like  the  July  number  a  lot.  It's  consistently  good  all  through. 
The  only  thing  1  was  disappointed  in  was  the  "Imaginary  Letters". 
It's  so  damned  British!  It's  very  clever,  there's  no  question — but 
to  me  at  least  it  lacks  beauty.  The  T.  S.  Eliot  poems  are  in  some- 
thing the  same  vein  but  much  more  mature,  and  awfully  well  writ- 
ten.    I  like  the  Ezra  Pound  very  much — in  fact  everything  else. 

[I  can't  .see  why  Lewis's  Letter  is  any  more  cssenliaJly  British  than 
Nietzsche's  "Flies  in  the  Market  Place".  And  since  it  is  very  good 
writing  why  hasn't  it  beauty? — M.  C.  A.] 


Reproach 

I  am  sorry  about  one  thing, — you  don't  seem  to  be  able  to 

get  rid  of  the  propaganda.  All  the  things  Pound  sends  you  are  in 
a  way  propaganda.  If  not,  what  are  they  trying  to  do;  just  shock 
people?  Eliot's  poem  about  the  Church  is  all  right.  That  sort  of 
thing  ought  to  be  said  and  he  has  said  it  so  well  that  it  will  get 
over.  But  I  think  his  "Lune  de  Miel"  is  disgusting,  in  one  line  simply 
impossible.  I  am  terribly  interested,  but  I  do  wish  they  would  be  a 
little  more  delicate. 

[1  am  with  you  on  the  propaganda.  Extermination  seems  simple 
and  direct  and  lasting  and  the  only  solution  to  me.  Shocking  peo- 
ple I  believe  is  a  fever  of  extreme  youth  which  cools  very  soon, 

as  soon  as  caught  almost.  If  one  could  only  shock  them  to  the 
foundations  there  might  be  some  interest,  but  they  are  never  shocked 
beyond  where  they  arc  always  treml)ling  anyway.  Eliot  is  quite 
outside  that  kind  of  interest. 

We  are  known,  in  magazine  lingo,  as  a  class  magazine.     At   first 
I    was   puzzled   as   to  what   that   meant.     But   when   a   distinguishc  i 


The    Little     Review  25 

foreigner,  a  man  who  might  have  competed  with  the  Jodindranath  of 
Ezra  Pound's  article,  said  that  that  article  was  a  "matter  for  police 
suppression"  I  thought  that  he  was  probably  the  only  person  quali- 
fied to  understand  it.  There  is  that  class.  And  then  there  is  the 
other  class, — the  one  expressed  by  the  gentleman  who  laughingly 
said:  "There  is  a  number  of  such  backgrounds  that  should  be  so 
exploited". — jh.] 


War  Art 

B.  C,  Kansas: 

The  Little  Review  is  the  only  magazine  I  have  laid  eyes  on  in 
months  that  hasn't  had  a  word  in  it  about  this  blasted  war.  How 
do  you  do  it? 

[Perhaps  it's  because  none  of  us  considers  this  war  a  legitimate  or 
an  interesting  subject  for  Art,  not  being  the  focal  point  of  any  funda- 
mental emotion  for  any  of  the  peoples  engaged  in  it.  Revolutions 
and  civil  wars  are  different..  ..but  that  is  a  long  story.  There  never 
has  been  a  real  revolution  yet:  peoples  have  revoluted  but  they  have 
never  seemed  to  hold  on  to  what  they  have  fought  for.  By  the  time 
the  revolution  gets  to  be  history  they  are  back  behind  where  they 
started,  staggering  under  the  same  kind  of  burdens  .  They  are  really 
hunch-backs,  but  they  think  that  which  bends  their  backs  can  be 
unloaded.  And  civil  wars,  whatever  their  pretext,  seem  always  to 
be  the  fight  of  the  self-righteoils  uncultivated  against  the  cultivated 
and  the  suave. 

I  am  not  writing  this  as  a  '"scholar  of  history."  I  am  just  wander- 
ing on  when  I  don't  very  much  want  to.  »At  least  I  do  feel  strongly 
that  nine  tenths  of  the  stuff  written  is  a  rotten  impertinence  to  be 
discouraged.  Some  reviewers  call  these  efforts  "deeply  touching 
and  of  poignant  appeal".  Consider  the  morbid  deadliness  of  the 
U-Boat  and  then  this  poem: — 

You    are    a    U-Boat    you. 
You're   number  23, 
U-Boat  you're  after  me 
U-Boat  this   is   not  war, 
U-Boat  you  make  me  sore. 

There  are  three  stanzas  supporting  this  chorus  which  are  a  matter 
of  abnormal  crime.  And  this  is  the  effort  of  a  woman  educated  in 
one  of  the  best  colleges  in  the  country. — ///.] 


26  The     Little     Review 


To   "jh" 

Israel  Solon,  New  York: 

T  see  in  your  last  issue:  "After  reading  your  article  'Push-Face' 
in  your  June  number  I  have  torn  the  magazine  to  pieces  and  burned 
it  in   the   fire.     You  may  discontinue  my  subscription". 

We  would  destroy  you  instead  of  falling  upon  his  face  for  the 
one  red  moment  you  tendered  him.     What  is  one  to  say  to  this? 

Life  would  be  hard  to  bear  were  it  not  that  of  this  all  life  is 
made,  by  this  all  life  destroyed. 

Louise  Gebhard  Conn,  Seattle: 

...Mr.  Pound's  swashbuckling  always  sets  me  to  crying,  with 
my  eye  on  the  needy  American  public.  "Encore!  Encore!"  lint  I 
am  not  tenipted  to  reread  him,  except  for  the  purpose  of  looking  up 
in  the  dictionary  the  novel  words  he  uses.  However,  since  reading 
his  Dialogue  in^the  June  Little  Review,  I  have  reversed  my  opinion; 
for  1  shall  read  that  excellent  chat  between  the  student  and  Ralielais 
twice  as  many  times  as  1  read  an\^  one  of  John  Davidson's  "Tete-a- 
tPtes". 

I  intended  to  interject  cmite  i)arenthetically  before  that  no  one 
who  conscientiously  reads  the  author  of  "Jodindranath  Mawhvvor's 
Occupation"  can  fail  to  develop  a  vocabulary;  and  since  the  art  of 
writing  is  the  art  of  words, — that,  given  language,  inevitably  formal 
literature  arises, — Mr.  Pound  is  a  high-pressure  manufacturer  of 
literature-matrix. 

Tlie  May  number  was  certainl}'  an  achievement, — the  sort  of 
thing  we're  hungry  for;  but  we  missed  "//i".         ,  ' 

Your  Tush-Eace"  is  precisely  to  the  point.  Its  weakest  part 
is  your  satire  on  clothes  and  appearance.  To  seize  upon  the  merely 
external,  to  ridicule  a  woman  because  of  her  age,  is  the  easiest 
and  thercfoie  the  most  journalistic  form  of  humor.  1  am  certain 
that  in  time  we  shall  come  into  a  form  of  wit  so  potent  that  it  will 
deal  with  character  as  you  deal  with  double-chins  and  tunics.  You 
yourself  attain  this  penetrating  force  of  satire  when  you  throw  up 
against  the  Ked-Cross  activity  the  activity  of  the  police  in  pushing 
back  the  little  children   from  the  slums  beyond  the  Square. 

[You  seem  to  me  to  be  a  bit  confused  in  your  critKrlsm  oT  my 
'"I'ush-Eace"  article.  "It's  weakest  part  is  your  satire  on  clothes 
and  appearance" — and  later  you  are  certain  that  we  shall  come  into 
a  form  of  wit  so  potent  that  it  will  deal  with  character  as  f  dealf 
with    double-chins    and    tunics    (appearance    and    clothes).      But     I 


The    Little    Review  27 

feel  certain  that  we  shall  never  come  into  a  time  when  the  reader 
will  be  penetrating  enough  to  recognize  psychology  from  a  mere  deal- 
ing with  "externals". 

The  part  you  criticise  was  an  attempt  to  strike  through  externals 
to  suggest  a  psychology  of  anatomy, — a  psychology  founded  on  a 
theory  that  the  definitive  lines  of  the  body  take  their  intention 
from  something  more  fundamental  than  will  power.  I  have  not 
read  Dr.  Adler's  theory  of  the  "fictitious  goal".  But  I  have  learned 
from  my  study  of  the  human  body,  in  drawing  from  it,  and  from 
that  eternal  observation  of  it  which  becomes  a  tireless  and  al- 
most unconscious  preoccupation  of  the  p<iinter, — I  have  learned 
that  it  is  possible  for  even  the  slightly  intellijient  to  stamp  his 
body  with  all  the  movement,  bearing,  and  spirt  of  some  cherished 
ideal  or  some  protective  colouring  of  himself  which  he  wishes  to 
present  to  the  world.  In  great  stress  or  in  crises  where  th :  entire 
will  power  is  overthrown  or  engaged  elsewhere  the  body,  like  the 
mind,  assumes  its  true  lines  and  presence.  On  the  stage  this  is  a 
very  simple  way  of  unmasking  a  character, — you  will  say,  an  obvious 
viiay.  Then  why  may  not  the  fictitious  role  be  obvious  to  the 
painter, — not  a  matter  of  "mere  externals"  but  a  legitimate  thing 
to  seize  upon  as  a  subject  for  satire  or  what  you  choose?  This 
class  of  people — those  of  the  fictitious  role — are  really  the  richest 
inaterial  for  Art.  It  is  only  in  cases  where  there  is  creative  power 
back  of  the  fictitious  role  that  the  thing  itself  uecomes  an  art:  in 
poets,  musicians,  painters,  etc.,  when  the  fictitious  becomes  a  thing 
created,  where  with  mind  and  body  they  have  created  a  wholly 
new,  unshakable,  well-designed  character  from  themselves. 

Byron,  the  unwanted,  spiritless,  club-footed  child  who  created 
from  this  material  a  brilliant  symbol  of  romantic  manly  beauty, 
'■flashing  a  flaming  heart  across  Europe'". 

But    all    this    is    too    interesting    and    immense    to    deal   with    in    a 
paragraph.     Sometime  perhaps  I  will  go  into  it  at  length. — y'/;.] 

The  stag's  voice  has  bent  her  heart  toward  sorrow, 

Sending  the  evening  winds  which  she  does  not  see. 

We  cannot  see  the  tip  of 'the  branch. 

The  last  leaf  falls  without  witness. 

There  is  an  awe  in  the  shadow, 

And  even  the  moon  is  quiet. 

With  the  love-grass  tuKler  the  caves. 

— From  "Noh",  bv  Ernest  Fenollosa  and  Ecra  Pound. 


THE  ARTISTS'  GUILD 

A  NATIONAL  ORGANIZATION  INCORPORATED  ON 
A  "NOT  FOR  PROFIT  BASIS". 


Pain 

tings,     Sculp 
AND 

t  u  r  e 

Han 

dwrought     Obj 

e  c  t  s 

As  security 

for  the  purchase  and  to  insure  merit, 

all 

works  are  approved  by  a  jury. 

1 

Exquisite     and     Rare 

Gifts 

The  Artists' 

and  Craft  Workers'  own 

organization 

GALLERIES,    EXHIBITION    AND    SALESROOMS 
FINE    ARTS    BUILDING  CHICAGO.    ILLINOIS 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON,  Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Loudon    Editor 


For  September: 

INFERIOR   RELIGIONS,  by  WYNDHAM  LEWIS 
L'HOMME  MOYEN  SENSUEL,  by  EZRA  POUND 
EELDROP  AND  APPLEPLEX,  II.,  by  T.  S.  ELIOT 
IMAGINARY   LETTERS,  IV.:  "The  Nonsense  about 
Art  for  the  Many",  by  EZRA  POUND 

MR.  JAMES  JOYCE  will  contribute  to  The  Little  Review 
as  soon  as  circumstances  permit.  Editorials  in  The  Little 
Review  will  respect  no  vested  interests,  no  publishers'  in- 
terests, no  aged  magazines  and  reviews,  nor  staffs  of  the 
same. 


Yearly  Subscription,  U.  S.  A.,  $1.50;   Canada,  $1.65; 
Great  Britain  and  other  Countries,  7/- 


THE    LITTLE    REVIEW 

24  West  i6th  Street,  New  York  City 

Foreign  Office:  5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  Kensington  W.  8., 
London. 

Enclosed  find  $1.50  for  one  year's  subscription, 

beginning 

Name   

Adress    


COLONY   ART  SHOP 

Artists'    Materials  - 

ll!IIIIMIIilil!lliin!iillllllllllli!ii:ilillliiililill!U]:liulliiiliiU(liiiiliiil||i|||||{ii:.;|j;;|i-  t- 


I  g  Oil   and   Water   Colors  § 

I  1  Brushes  and  Canvas  | 

=  I  Smocks  to   Order  1 

1  1  Interior  and  Exterior  Decorating  1 

I  1  Paper  Hanging  1 

I  I  Polishing  and  Refinishing  1 

II  of  Wood  Work  % 

I  ADOLPH  KLAFF 

I  143  Sixth  Ave.,        NEW   YORK    CITY  Chelsea  \  285 


llllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!illi;ill!III!l!lllllllllllllliy^ 


EUGENE     HUTCHINSON 
PHOTOGRAPHS 


i     FINE    ARTS    BUILDING,  CHICAGO,    ILL. 


illlll!llll1llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltll!llll!lllllllllllll!llllll!ll>!lll!;illllinil 


SPECIAL   OFFER 

TAMES  JOYCE'S  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as 
^      a  Young  Man  and  a  year's  subscription  to 
The  Little  Review  for  $2.50. 

We  are  glad  to  annouce  that  through  the  courtesy 
of  Mr.  Huebsch  we  are  able  to  make  the  following  un- 
usual offer,  open  to  any  one  who  sends  in  a  subscription 
(or  a  renewal)  to  The  Little  Review. 

Mr.  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man, 
the  most  important  and  beautiful  piece  of  novel  writing 
to  be  found  in  English  today,  retails  for  $1.50.  The 
subscription  price  of  The  Little  Review  is  $1.50.  We 
will  cut  the  latter  to  $1.00,  for  this  special  offer,  and 
you  may  have  the  book  and  the  subscription  for  $2.50. 
Or  you  may  have  Mr.  Joyce's  DubUners  instead. 


ORDER     FORM 

''A      PORTRAIT      OF      THE 
ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  MAN" 

Please   send  me cop of 

A  PORTRAIT  OF  THE  ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  MAN 
by  James  Joyce,  published  by  Mr.   B.  W.  Huebsch,   for 

which  I  enclose 

Name   

Address  


Orders,  accompanied  by  remittance  should  be  sent  to 
THE   LITTLE    REVIEW 
24  West  1 6th  Street,  New  York  City 


THE    EGOIST 

An      Individualist     Review 

IIIII!lllilllll:l!yiJ 


Presei\t  Features 

LINGUAL  PSYCHOLOGY:    THE  SCIENCE  OF  SIGNS: 

a  series  of  subtle  and  illuminating  articles  working  out  a  new 
conception  of  the  function  of  philosophic  inquiry — by  Miss 
Dora  Marsden  (started  in  July  number). 

Literary  criticism,  reviews  and  other  prose  articles. 

Paris  chronicle  and  a  series  of  articles  on  modern  French  prose 

writers,  by  Madame  Ciolkowska. 

DIALOGUES  OF  FONTENELLE,  translated  by  Mr.  Ezra 
Pound  (started  in  May  number). 

TARR,  a  brilliant  modern  novel  by  Mr.  Wyndham  Lewis, 
leader  of  the  English  "Vorticist"  group  (started  in  April 
number) . 

Poems  by  young  English  and  American  poets,  mostly  Ijelonging 
to  the  Imagist  group. 

lllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllillllllllllllllllllllllilllHIIIIIIillllllllllUiy^ 

PUBLISHED  MONTHLY 

Price  Fifteen  Cents  a  Number 

Yearly  Subscription,  One  Dollar  Sixty  Cents 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^ 

OAKLEY  HOUSE,  BLOOMSBURY  ST.,  LONDON,  W.  C. 


CHALLENGING  THE  GOVERNMENT 

Twelve  to  fifteen  radical  publications  have  been 
declared  unmailable. 

THE  MASSES  is  the  only  one  which  has  chal- 
lenged the  censorship  in  the  courts  and  .put  the 
Government  on  the  defensive. 

Each  month  we  have  something  vitally  important 
to  say  on  the  war. 

We  are  going  to  say  it  and  continue  to  say  it. 

We  are  going  to  fight  any  attempt  to  prevent  us 
from  saying  it. 

THE  MASSES  has  proved  in  the  last  few  issues 
that  it  stands  the  foremost  critic  of  militarism. 

In  these  critical  times  THE  MASSES  is  necessary 
for  a  true  comprehension  of  the  war  problems. 

Buy  THE  MASSES  on  the  newsstands  until  we  are 
readmitted  to  the  mails. 

iSt  the  Copy. 


The  Masses  Publishing  Company 

34  Union  Square,  East  New  York  City 


To 

We   have   given    very   little   attention   to 

solving  the  advertising  problem   for  The 

The 

Little  Review. 

Advertiser 

We  have  always  been  too  engrossed  in  the 

adventure  of  making  a  magazine  of  liter- 

- 

ature. 

This  has  been  a  lack  of  foresight  on  our 

part. 

We  are  told  every  day  by  advertising  men 

that  a  certain  class  of  advertiser  is  always 

looking  for  our  kind  of  public. 

A  magazine  whose  interest  is  in  its  con- 

tents  rather   than   in   policy,    circulation, 

competition,  or  popularity,  is  a  peculiarly 

good  medium  for  the  class  of  advertiser 

who    has    standards    beyond    precendent 

standards. 

He  is  assured  of  an  interested,  loyal,  dis- 

criminating    audience.       The     advertiser 

needs  us.     We  need  the  advertiser.     He 

will  help  us  to  enlarge  our  format  and  to 

carry  out  an  extraordinary  program. 

Now  is  the  time  to  advertise  with  us. 

We  are  a  growing  concern. 

Write  for  rates. 

The  Little  Review 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street, 

New  York  City. 

ECALL  that  golden  day  when  you  first  read  "  Huck  Finn  "? 
>•   How  your  mother  said,  "  For  goodness'  sake,  stop  laughing 
aloud  over  that  book.     You  sound  so  silly."     But  you  couldn't  stop  laughing. 

Today  when  you  read  "Huckleberry  Finn"  you  will  not  laugh  so  much.  You  will  chuckle 
often,  but  you  will  also  want  to  weep.  The  deep  humanity  of  it — the  pathos,  that  you 
never  saw,  as  a  boy,  will  appeal  to  you  now.  You  were  too  busy  laughing  to  notice  the 
limpid  puritv  of  the  master's  stvle. 

When  Mark  Twain  first  wrote  '  Huckleberry  Finn"  this  land  was  swept  witli  a  gale 
of  laughter.     When  he  wrote  "  The  Innocents  .Abroad  "  even  Europe  laughed  at  it  itself. 

But  one  day  there  appeared  a  new  book  from  his  pen,  so  spiritual,  so  true,  so  lofty  that 
those  who  did  not  know  him  well  were  amazed.  "  Joan  of  .Arc  "  was  the  work  of  a  poet — 
a  historian — a  seer.  Mark  Twain  was  all  of  these.  His  was  not  the  light  laughter  of  a 
moment's  fun,  but  the  whimsical  humor  that  made  the  tragedy  of  life  more  bearable. 

A  Real  American 

Mark  Twain  was  a  steamboat  pilot. 
He  was  a  searcher  for  gold  in  the  far 
West.  He  was  a  printer.  He  worked 
bitterly  hard.  .Ml  this  without  a  glim- 
mer of  the  great  destiny  that  lay  before 
him.  Then,  with  the  opening  of  the 
great  wide  West,  his  genius  bloomed. 

His  fame.spread  through  the  nation. 
It  flew  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  until 
his  work  was  translated  into  strange 
tongues.  From  then  on,  the  path  of 
fame  lay  straight  to  the  hi^h  places, 
.^t  the  height  of  his  fame  he  lost  all 
his  money.  He  was  heavily  in  debt, 
but  though  60  years  old,  he  started 
afresh  and  paid  every  cent.  It  was  the 
last  heroic  touch  that  drew  him  close 
to  the  hearts  of  his  countrymen. 

The  world  has  asked  is  there  an  .Ameri- 
can literature?  Mark  Twain  is  the  an- 
•swer.  He  is  the  heart,  the  spirit  of 
America.  From  his  poor  and  struggling 
boyhood  to  his  glorious,  splendid  old 
age.  he  remained  as  simple,  as  demo- 
cratic as  the  plainest  of  our  forefathers. 

He  was,  uf  all  Americans,  the  must  Ameri- 
can. Free  in  soul,  and  dreaming  of  high 
things — brave  in  the  face  of  trouble — and  al- 
ways ready  to  laugh.     That  was  Mark  Twain. 


The  Price  Goes  Up 

OC  Vni  ITMC(k  Novels — Stories — Humor 
£.0    VULUIVICO    Essays—Travel  —  History 

This  is  Mark  Twain's  own  set.  This  is  the  .set  he 
wanted  in  the  home  of  each  of  those  who  love  him. 
Because  he  asked  it,  Harpers  have  worked  to  make 
a  perfect  set  at  a  reduced  price. 

Before  the  war  we  had  a  contract  price  for  paper, 
so  we  could  sell  this  set  of  Mark  Twain  at  half  price. 

Send  the%pupon  Without  Money 

The  list  of  the^tition  is  in  sight, 
price  of  paper  has  gone  up.     There  can 
l>e  no  more  Mark  Twain  at  the  present 
price.     There   never  ag.-.in  will  he    /       BROTHERS 
any  more  Mark  Twain  at  the  pres- 
ent price.      Get  the  dS  volumes 
now,  while  you  can.      Every 

ATuerican  h.as  got  to  have  a  /^  Send  me,  all  charges 
set  of  Mark  Twain  in  his  /  prepaid,  a  set  of  Mark 
home.  Get  yours  now  /Twain's  works  in  ZS 
and  save  money.  /.  volumes,   illustrated,    boimd 

Yourrhildren  want     X    '"     h'indsome     green     cloth, 
"     '       lain.    You       /  stamped  in  gold,  gold  tops  and 
^  untrimmerl  edges.     If  not  satisfac- 
tory. I  will  return  them  at  your  ex- 
Otherwise  I  will  send  you  $1,00 
within  5  days  and  $2.00  a  month   for  id 
onths,  thus  getting  the  benefit  of  your 
half-price  sale.  Little  Review 


HARPER  &  BROTHERS,  New  York 


HARPER   & 


KraukllD  S(|.,  S.  Y. 


A     SELECTION     OF     BOOKS 

from 

THE   LITTLE   REVIEW   BOOKSHOP 

Poetry  and  Drama 

Fiction 

Prufrock   and   other   Ob- 

A  Portrait   of  the  Artist 

SN-vations,  by  T.S.Eliol. 

as  a  Youn«;  Man.  by 

Xoh :     A    Study    of    the 

James  Joye>.    $i.§o. 

Classical  Stage  of  Jajian. 
hy  Ernest  Fenellosa  mid 

Pelle  the  Conqueror,  by 

Ezra  Pound.     $2.7';. 

Martin    .Anderson    Nexo. 

The  Love  Poems  of 

4  volumes.    $6.00. 

X'crharen.  translated  by 

Mendel,    by   Gilbert 

Flint,  Symous,   and 

Caiman.    >'7.5o. 

others.     ^1.50. 

A  Night   at  an   Inn,   /;v 

Dubliners.   hy  James 

Lord  Dunsany.  50  cents. 

Joyce.    :jii.so. 

Psychology 

Miscellaneous 

Psychology  of  the  Uncon- 

Le   Feu,    by   Henri  liar 

scious  hy  Dr.  C.  G.  Juni^. 

bussc. 

$4.00. 

The    Psychoanalytic 

Chamber  Music.  Jiy 

- 

Method.. /^v  Dr.  Oskar 

James  Joyce. 

Pjister.     ^4.00. 

The  Works  of  Anatole 

Wit  and  .Its  Relation  to 

France.    EacJi  $i.2<i. 

the  Unconscious,  by  Dr. 

•/ 

Siiimund   Freud.      $2.^0 

Oscar  Wilde:      His  life 

The   Neurotic   Constitu- 

and Confessions,  by 

tion,   by  Dr.  Alfred 

Frank  Harris    .>  volumes. 

Adler.    :fij.oo. 

$10.00. 

All  mail  orders  must  he  accompaiiicil  hy  an  uvcruiic 

oj  /ill  (tills  per  hook  for  posUit^e. 

THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 


A    MAGAZINE     OF    THE    ARTS 

MAKING     NO     COMPROMISE     WITH     THE     PUBLIC     TASTE 

Margaret  Anderson 
Publisher 

September,    1917 

Inferior  Religions  Wyndham  Letvis 

L'Homme  Moyen  Sensuel  E^ra  Pound 

Eeldrop  and  Appleplex,  II:  T  S.  Eliot 

The  Passion  for  Experience 

Imaginary  Letters,  IV :  Ezra  Pound 

The  Nonsense  about  Art  for  the  Many 

The  Children  and  Judas  Robert Alden  Sanborn 
The  Reader  Critic: 

Yeats's  Poems  "Upon  a  Dying  Lady" 

Gargoyles 

Phases  of  Crazes 

To  our  Readers 
Announcement  for  October 

Gopyrigh.    1917,    by    Margaret    Ander»«». 

Published    Monthly 

MARGARET    ANDERSON,    Editor 

EZRA    POUND,    Foreign    Editor 

34   West    Sixteenth    Street 

15  Cents  a  Copy  $1.50  a  Year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  Postoffiice,  New  York,  N,  Y. 


THE    STRADIVARIUS   OF    PIANOS 


313    FIFTH   AVENUE 
NEW   YORK 


OLW 
CHELSEA 

51  West  1 6th  Street 
New  York  City 

Rooms,  Suites,  Floors 

furnished  or  unfurnished. 
Intelligent   service    for   busy 
men  and  women. 

Table  d'hote 
dining-room 

noted  for  fine  home  cooking. 

"A  bit  of  Old  Chelsea 
in  little  old  Nnv  York"' 


Ruth  Stout  says, 

.  .  .  "And  now  remember, 
it's  Special  Dinner  for  half-a- 
doUar  on  Wednesday  at  7.00; 
and  on  Sunday  it's  luncheon 
a  la  carte.'' 

THE    KLICKET 

163  West  Fourth  Street, 
The  Village.  New  York. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

VOL.  IV.  SEPTEMBER  1917  No.  5 


Inferior    Religions* 
Wyndham  Lewis 


TO  introduce  my  puppets,  and  the  Wild  Body,  the  generic  puppet 
of  all,  I  must  look  back  to  a  time  wh^n  the  antics  and 
solemn  gambols  of  these  wild  children  filled  me  with  triumph. 

The  fascinating  imbecility  of  the  creaking  men-machines, 
some  little  restaurant  or  fishing-boat  works,  is  the  subject  of  these 
studies.  The  boat's  tackle  and  dirty  little  shell  keeps  their  limbs  in 
a  monotonous  rhythm  of  activity.  A  man  gets  drunk  with  his  boat 
as  he  would  with  a  merry-go-round.  Only  it  is  the  staid,  everyday 
drunkenness  of  the  normal  real.  We  can  all  see  the  ascendance 
a  "carrousel"  has  on  men,  driving  them  into  a  set  narrow  intoxica- 
tion. The  wheel  at  Carisbrooke  imposes  a  set  of  movements  on  the 
donkey  inside  it,  in  drawing  water  from  the  well,  that  it  is  easy  to 
grasp.  But  in  the  case  of  a  fishing-boat  the  variety  is  so  great,  the 
scheme  so  complex,  that  it  passes  as  open  and  untrammeled  life. 
This  subtle  and  wider  mechanism  merges,  for  the  spectator,  in  the 
general  variety  of  Nature.  Yet  we  have  in  most  lives  a  spectacle  as 
complete  as  a  problem  of  Euclid. 

Moran,  Bestre  and  Brobdingnag  are  essays  in  a  new  human 
mathematic  But  they  are  each  simple  shapes,  little  monuments  of 
logic.  I  should  like  to  compile  a  book  of  forty  of  these  propositions, 
one  deriving  from  and  depending  on  the  other. 


*  [Editor's  note:  This  essay  was  written  as  the  introduction  to  a 
volume  of  short  stories  containing  "Inn-Keepers  and  Bestre",  "Un- 
lucky for  Pringle"  and  some  others  which  had  appeared  in  The 
English  Review  under  Ford  Madox  Huefifer's  editorship,  and  in  other 
English  periodicals.  The  book  was  in  process  of  publication  (the 
author  had  even  been  paid  an  advance  on  it)  when  war  broke  out. 
The  last  member  of  the  publishing  firm  has  been  killed  in  France, 
and  the  firm  disbanded.  The  essay  is  complete  in  itself  and  need 
not  stand  as  an  "introduction".  It  is  perhaps  the  most  important 
single  document  that  W^yndham  Lewis  has  written.  Such  stones 
as  had  not  been  previously  published  will  appear  in  later  numbers 
of  The  Little  Reviezv. — E.  P.] 


The     Little     Review 


These  intricately  moving  bobbins  are  all  subject  to  a  set  of  ob-  : 
jects  or  one  in  particular,  iirobdingnag  is  fascinated  by  one  object, 
for  instance;  one  at  once  another  vitality.  He  bangs  up  against  it 
wildly  at  regular  intervals,  blackens  it,  contemplates  it.  moves 
round  it  and  dreams.  All  such  fascination  is  religious.  Moran's 
damp  napkins  are  the  altar-cloths  of  his  rough  illusion.  Julie's 
bruises  are  the  markings  on  an  idol. 

These  studies  of  rather  primitive  people  are  studies  in  a  savage 
worship  and  attraction.  Moran  rolls  between  his  tables  ten  million 
times  in  a  realistic  rhythm  that  is  as  intense  and  superstitious  as  the 
figures  of  a  war-dance.  He  worships  his  soup,  his  damp  napkins, 
the  lump  of  flesh  that  rolls  everyAvhere  with  him  called  Madam 
Moran. 

All  religion  has  the  mechanism  of  the  celestial  bodies,  has  a 
dance.  When  we  wish  to  renew  our  idols,  or  break  up  the  rhythm  .of 
our  naievty,  the  effort  postulates  a  respect  which  is  the  summit  of 
devoutness. 

II 

I  would  present  these  puppets,  then,  as  carefully  selected  spec- 
imens of  religious  fanaticism.  With  their  attendant  objects  or 
fetishes  they  live  and  have  a  regular  food  for  vitality.  They 
are  not  creations,  but  puppets.  You  can  be  as  exterior  to  them, 
and  live  their  life  as  little,  as  the  showman  grasping  from  beneath 
and  working  about  a  Polichinelle.  They  are  only  shadows  of 
energy,  and  not  living  beings.  Their  mechanism  is  a  logical  struc- 
ture and  they  are  nothing  but  that. 

Sam  Weller,  Jingle,  Malvolio,  Bouvard,  and  Pecuchet,  the  ''com- 
missaire"  in  Crime  and  Punishment,  do  not  live;  they  are  con- 
gealed and  frozen  into  logic,  and  an  exuberant,  hysterical  truth. 
They  transcend  life  and  are  complete  cyphers,  but  they  are  monu- 
ments of  dead  imperfection.  Their  only  reference  is  to  them- 
selves, and  their  only  significance  their  egoism. 

The  great  intuitive  figures  of  creation  live  with  the  universal  ego- 
ism of  the  Poet.  They  are  not  picturesque  and  over  palpable. 
They  are  supple  with  this  rare  impersonality;  not  stiff  with  a 
common  egotism.  The  "realists"  of  the  Flaubert,  Maupassant, 
and  Tchekoff  school  are  all  satirists.  '"Realism",  understood  as  ap- 
plied to  them,  implies  either  photography  or  satire. 

Satire,  the  great  Heaven  of  Ideas,  where  you  meet  the  Titans  of 
red  laughter,  is  just  below  Intuition,  and  Life  charged  with  black 
Illusion. 


The     Little     Review 


III 

When  we  say  '"types  of  humanity",  we  mean  violent  individual- 
ities, and  nothing  stereotyped.  But  Othello,  Falstaff  and  Peck- 
sniff attract,  in  our  memory,  a  vivid  following.  All  difference  is 
energy,  and  a  category  of  humanity  a  relatively  small  group,  and 
not  the  myriads  suggested  by  a  generalisation. 

A  comic  type  is  a  failure  of  a  considerable  energy,  an  imitation 
and  standardising  of  self,  suggesting  the  existence  of  a  uniform 
humanity,— creating,  that  is,  a  little  host  as  like  as  ninepins;  in- 
stead of  one  synthetic  and  various  Ego.  It  is  the  laziness  of  a 
successful  personality.  It  is  often  part  of  our  own  organism  be- 
come a  fetish. 

Sairey  Gamp  and  Falstaff  are  minute  and  rich  religions.  They 
are  illusions  hugged  and  lived  in.  They  are  like  little  dead  Totems. 
Just  as  all  Gods  are  a  repose  for  humanity,  the  big  religions  an  im- 
mense refuge  and  rest,  so  these  little  grotesque  idols  are.  One 
reason  for  this  is  that,  for  the  spectator  or  participator,  it  is  a  world 
in  a  corner  of  the  world,  full  of  rest  and  security. 

Moran,  even,  advances  in  life  with  his  rows  of  bottles  and 
napkins;  Julie  is  Brobdingnag's  Goddess,  and  figures  for  interces- 
sions, if  the  occasion  arises. 

All  these  are  forms  of  static  and  traditional  art,  then.  There 
is  a  great  deal  of  divine  Olympian  sleep  in  English  Humour.  The 
most  gigantic  spasm  of  laughter  is  sculptural,  isolated  and  essen- 
tially simple. 

IV 

1  Laughter  is  the  Wild  Body's  song  of  triumph. 

2  Laughter  is  the  climax  ifi.  the  tragedy  of  seeing,  hearing  and 
smelling  self-consciously. 

3  Laughter  is  the  bark  of  delight  of  a  gregarious  animal  at  the 
proximity  of  its  kind. 

4  Laugher  is  an  independent,  tremendously  important,  and  lurid 
Emotion. 

2     Laughter  is  the  representative  of  Tragedy,  when  Tragedy   is 
away. 

6  Laughter  is  the  emotion  of  tragic  delight. 

7  Laughter  is  the  female  of  Tragedy. 

8  Laughter  is  the  strong  elastic  fish,  caught  in  Styx,  springing 
and  flapping  about  until  it  dies. 

9  Laughter  is  the  sudden  handshake  of  mystic  violence  and  the 
anarchist. 


The     Little     Review 


10  Laughter  is  the  mind  sneezing. 

1 1  Laughter  is  the  one  obvious  commotion  that  is  not  complex,  or 
in  expression  dynamic. 

1 2  Laughter  does  not  progress.    It  is  primitive,  hard  and  unchange- 
able. 


The  chemistry  of  personality  (subterranean  in  a  sort  of  cemetery 
whose  decompositions  are  our  lives)  puffs  up  in  frigid  balls, 
soapy  Snow-men,  arctic  Carnival  Masks,  which  we  can  photograph 
and  fix. 

Upwards  from  the  surface  of  Existence  a  lurid  and  dramatic 
scum  oozes  and  accumulates  into  the  characters  we  see.  The 
real  and  tenacious  poisons,  and  sharp  forces  of  vital  vitality,  do  not 
socially  transpire.  Within  five  yards  of  another  man's  eyes  we  are 
on  a  little  crater,  which,  if  it  erupted,  would  split  up  as  a  cocoa- 
tin  of  nitrogen  would.  Some  of  these  bombs  are  ill-made,  or  some 
erratic   in  their  timing.     But  they  are  all  potential   little  bombs. 

Capriciously,  however,  the  froth-forms  of  these  darkly-contrived 
machines,  twist  and  puff  in  the  air,  in  our  legitimate  and  liveried 
masquerade. 

Were  you  the  female  of  Moran  (the  first  Innkeeper)  and  be- 
neath the  counterpane  with  him,  you  would  be  just  below  the 
surface  of  life,  in  touch  with  a  nasty  and  tragic  organism.  The 
first  indications  of  the  proximity  of  the  real  soul  would  be  ap- 
parent. You  would  be  for  hours  beside  a  filmy  crocodile,  con- 
scious of  it  like  a  bone  in  an  Ex-Ray,  and  for  minutes  in  the 
midst  of  a  tragic  wallowing.  The  soul  lives  in  a  cadaverous  activity; 
its  dramatic  corruption  thumps  us  like  a  racing  engine  in  the  body 
of  a  car.  The  finest  humour  is  the  great  Play-Shapes  blown  up 
or  given  off  by  the  tragic  corpse  of  Life  underneath  the  world 
of  the  Camera.  This  futile,  grotesque  and  sometimes  pretty 
spawn,  is  what  in  this  book  is  Kodacked  by  the  Imagination. 

Any  great  humourist  is  an  artist;  Dickens  as  an  example.  It  is 
just  this  character  of  uselessness  and  impersonality  in  Laughter, 
the  fibre  of  anarchy  in  the  comic  habit  of  mind,  that  makes  a 
man  an  artist  in  spite  of  himself  when  he  begins  living  on  his 
laughter.     Laughter  is  the  arch-luxury  that  is  as  simple  as  bread. 

VI 

In  this  objective  Play-World,  corresponding  to  our  social  con- 
sciousness as  opposed  to  our  solitude,  no  final  issue   is  decided. 


The     Little     Review 


You  may  blow  away  a  Maii-of-bubbles  with  a  Burgundian  gust 
of  laughter,  but  that  is  not  a  personality,  it  is  an  apparition  of 
no  importance.  Its  awkwardness,  or  prettiness  is  accidental.  But 
so  much  correspondence  it  has  with  its  original  that  if  the  cadaveric 
travail  beneath  is  vigorous  and  bitter,  the  mask  and  figurehead 
will  be  of  a  more  original  and  intense  grotesqueness.  The  op- 
posing armies  in  Flanders  stick  up  dummy  men  on  poles  for  their 
enemies  to  pot  at,  in  a  spirit  of  fierce  friendliness.  It  is  only  a 
dummy  of  this  sort  that  is  engaged  in  the  sphere  of  laughter.  But 
the  real  men  are  in  the  trenches  underneath  all  the  time,  and 
are  there  on  a  more  "decisive"  affair.  In  our  rather  drab  Revel 
there  is  certain  category  of  spirit  that  is  not  quite  anaemic,  and 
yet  not  very  funny  It  consists  of  those  who  take,  at  the  Clark- 
son's*  situated  at  the  opening  of  their  lives,  some  conventional 
Pierrot  costume,  with  a  minimum  of  inverted  vigour  and  the  as- 
surance of  superior  insignificance. 

The  King  of  Play  is  not  a  phantom  corresponding  to  the 
Sovereign  force  beneath  the  surface.  The  latter  must  always  be 
accepted  as  the  skeleton  at  the  Feast.  That  soul  or  dominant 
corruption  is  so  real  that  he  cannot  rise  up  and  take  part  in 
man's  festival  as  a  Falstaff  of  unwieldly  spume;  if  he  comes  at 
all  it  must  be  as  he  is,  the  skeleton  or  bogey  of  True  Life,  stuck 
over  with  corruptions  and  vices.  He  may  have  a  certain  "succes 
d'hysterie". 

VII 

A  scornful  optimism,  with  its  confidant  onslaughts  on  our  snob- 
bism,  will  not  make  material  existence  a  peer  for  our  energy. 
The  gladiator  is  not  a  perpetual  monument  of  triumphal  health. 
Napoleon  was  harried  with  Elbas.  Moments  of  vision  are  blurred 
rapidly  and  the  poet  sinks  into  the  rhetoric  of  the  will. 

But  life  is  invisible  and  perfection  is  not  in  the  waves  or 
houses  that  the  poet  sees.  Beauty  is  an  icy  douche  of  ease  and 
happiness  at  something  suggesting  perfect  conditions  for  an  or- 
ganism. A  stormy  landscape,  and  a  Pigment  consisting  of  a  lake 
of  hard,  yet  florid  waves;  delight  in  each  brilliant  scoop  or 
ragged  burst,  was  John  Constable's  beauty.  Leonardo's  consisted 
in  a  red  rain  on  the  shadowed  side  of  heads,  and  heads  of  mcissive 
female  aesthetes.  Uccello  accumulated  pale  paralells,  and  delighted 
in  cold  architecture  of  distinct  colour.    Korin  found  in  the  symmet- 


Edifor's  foot  note:   Clarkson,  a   London   theatrical  costumer. 


The    Little    Review 


rical  gushing  of  water,  in  waves  like  huge  vegetable  insects,  traced 
and  worked  faintly,  on  a  golden  pate,  his  business.  Cezanne  liktd 
cumbrous,  democratic  slabs  of  life,  slightly  leaning,  transfixed  in 
vegetable  intensity. 

Beauty  is  an  immense  pretlelection.  a  perfect  conviction  of  the 
desirability  of  a  certain  thing.  To  a  man  with  long  and  consump- 
tive fingers  a  sturdy  hand  may  be  heaven.  Equilibrium  and  "per- 
fection" may  be  a  bore  to  the  perfect.  The  most  universally 
pleasing  man  is  something  probably  a  good  way  from  "perfection". 
Henri  Fabre  was  in  every  way  a  superior  being  to  Bernard,  and  he 
knew  of  elegant  grubs  which  he  would  prefer  to  the  painter's 
nymphs. 

It  is  obvious,  though,  that  we  should  live  a  little  more  in  small 
communities. 


L'    Homme    Moyen    Sens  u  el* 
Ezra  Pound 

"I  hate  a  dumpy  woman" 

— George   Gordon,   Lord  Byron 

'Tis  of  my  country  that  I  would  endite, 

In  hope  to  set  some  misconceptions  right. 

My  country?    I  love  it  well,  and  those  good  fellows 

Who,  since  their  wit's  unknown,  escape  the  gallows. 

But  you  stuffed  coats  who 're  neither  tepid  nor  distinctly  boreal. 

Pimping,  conceited,  placid,  editorial, 

Could  I  bnl  speak  as  'twere  in  the  "Restoration" 

I  would  articulate  your  perdamnation  . 

This  year  perforce  I  must  with  circumspection  — 

For  Mencken  states  somewhere,  in  this  connection: 

"It  is  a  moral  nation  we  infest". 

Despite  such  reins  and  checks  I'll  do  my  best. 

An  art!     You  all  respect  the  arts,  from  that  infant  tick 


The     Little     Review 


Who's  now  the  editor  of  The  Atlantic, 

From  Comstock's  self,  down  to  the  meanest  resident. 

Till  up  again,  right  up,  we  reach  the  president, 

Who  shows  his  taste  in  his  ambassadors  : 

A  novelist,  a  publisher,  to  pay  old  scores, 

A  novelist,  a  publisher  and  a  preacher, 

That's  sent  to  Holland,  a  most  particular  feature, 

Henry  Van  Dyke,  who  thinks  to  charm  the  Muse  you  pack  her  in 

A  sort  of  stinking  diliquescent  saccharine. 

The  constitution  of  our  land,  O  Socrates, 

Was  made  to  incubate  such  mediocrities, 

These  and  a  taste  in  books  that's  grown  perennial 

And  antedates  the  Philadelphia  centennial. 

Still  I'd  respect  you  more  if  you  could  bury 

Mabie,  and  Lyman  Abbot  and  George  Woodberry, 

For  minds  so  wholly  foimded  upon  quotations 

Are  not  the  best  of  pulse  for  infant  nations. 

Dulness  herself,  that  abject  spirit ,  chortles 

To  see  your  forty  self-baptized  immortals. 

And  holds  her  sides  where  swelling  laughter  cracks  'em 

Before  the  "Ars  Poetica"  of  Hiram  Maxim. 

All  one  can  say  of  this  refining  medium 

Is  "Zut!  Cinque  lettres!"  a  banished  gallic  idiom, 


*  [Note:  It  is  through  no  fault  of  my  own  that  this  diversion  was 
not  given  to  the  reader  two  years  ago;  but  the  commercial  said  it 
would  not  add  to  their  transcendent  popularity,  and  the  vers-libre 
fanatics  pointed  out  that  I  had  used  a  form  of  terminal  consonance 
no  longer  permitted,  and  my  admirers  (j'en  at),  ever  nobly  desirous 
of  erecting  me  into  a  sort  of  national  institution,  declared  the  work 
'"unworthy"  of  my  mordant  and  serious  genius.  So  a  couple  of  the 
old  gentlemen  are  dead  in  the  interim,  and,  alas,  two  of  the  great 
men  mentioned  in  passing,  and  the  reader  will  have  to  accept  the 
'  opusculus  for  what  it  is,  some  rhymes  written  in  1915.  I  would  give 
them  now  with  dedication  "To  the  .Anonymous  Compatriot  Who 
Produced  the  Poem  'Fanny',  Somewhere  About  1820",  if  this  form 
of  centennial  homage  be  permitted  me.  It  was  no  small  thing  to 
have  written,  in  America,  at  that  distant  date,  a  poem  of  over  forty 
pages  which  one  can  still  read  without  labour.  E.  P.] 


10  The     Little     Review 

Their  doddering  ignorance  is  waxed  so  notable 

'Tis  time  that  it  was  capped  with  something  quotable. 

Here  Radway  grew,  the  fruit  of  pantosocracy, 

The  very  fairest  flower  of  their  gynocracy. 

Radway?    My  hero,  for  it  will  be  more  inspiring 

If  I  set  forth  a  bawdy  plot  like  Byron 

Than  if  I  treat  the  nation  as  a  whole. 

Radway  grew  up.     These  forces  shaped  his  soul; 

These,  and  yet  God,  and  Dr.  Parkhurst's  god.  the  N.  Y.  Journal 

(WTiich  pays  him  more  per  week  than  The  Supernal). 

These  and  another  godlet  of  that  day,  your  day 

(You  feed  a  hen  on  grease,  perhaps  she'll  lay 

The  sterile  egg  that  is  still  eatable: 

"Prolific  Noyes"  with  output  undefeatable)  . 

From  these  he  (Radway)  learnt,  from  provosts  and  from  editors 

unyielding 
And  innocent  of  Stendhal,  Flaubert,  Maupassant  and  Fielding. 
They  set  their  mind  (it's  still  in  that  condition)  — 
May  we  repeat;  the  Centennial  Exposition 
At  Philadelphia,M876? 

What  it  knew  then,  it  knows,  and  there  it  sticks. 
And  yet  another,  a  ''charming  man",  "sw^eet  nature",  but  was  Gilder, 
De  mortuis  vcriim,  truly  the  master  builder? 

From    these    he    learnt .      Poe,    Whitman,    Whistler,    men,    their 

recognition 
Was  got  abroad,  what  better  luck  do  you  wish  'em, 
When  writing  well  has  not  yet  been  forgiven 

In  Boston,  to  Henry  James,  the  greatest  whom  we've  seen  living. 
And  timorous  love  of  the  innocuous 
Brought  from  Gt.  Britain  and  dumped  down  a'top  of  us, 
Till  you  may  take  your  choice:  to  feel  the  edge  of  satire  or 
Read  Benett  or  some  other  flaccid  flatterer  . 

Despite  it  all,  despite  your  Red  Bloods,  febrile  concupiscence 


The     Little     Review  ii 

Whose  blubbering  yowls  you  take  for  passion's  essence; 
Despite  it  all,  your  compound  predilection 
For  ignorance,  its  growth  and  its  protection 
(Vide  the  tariff).  I  will  hang  simple  facts 
Upon  a  tale,  to  combat  other  facts, 
"Message  to  Garcia",  Mosher's  propagandas 
That  are  the  nation's  bcJtts,  collicks  and  glanders. 
Or  from  the  feats  of  Sumner  cull  it?     Think, 
Could  Freud  or  Jung  unfathom  such  a  sink? 

My  hero,  Radway,  I  have  named,  in  truth, 

Some  forces  among  those  which  "formed"  his  youth: 

These  heavy  weights,  these  dodgers  and  these  preachers, 

Crusaders,  lecturers  and  secret  lechers. 

Who  wrought  about  his  "soul"  their  stale  infection. 

These  are  the  high-brows,  add  to  this  collection 

The  social  itch,  the  almost,  all  but,  not  quite,  fascinating, 

Piquante,  delicious,  luscious,  captivating 

(Puffed  satin,  and  silk  stockings,  where  the  knee 

.Clings  to  the  skirt  in  strict  (vide:  ■"'Vogue")   propriety. 

Three  thousand  chorus  girls  and  all  unkissed, 

O  state  sans  song,  sans  home-grown  wine,  sans  realist! 

"Tell  me  not  in  mournful  wish-wash 

Life's  a  sort  of  sugared  dish-wash  "  ! 

Radwa)'^  had  read  the  various  evening  papers 

And  yearned  to  imitate  the  Waldorf  capers 

As  held  before  him  in  that  unsullied  mirror 

The  daily  press,  and  monthlies  nine  cents  dearer. 

They  held  the  very  marrow  of  the  ideals 

That  fed  his  spirit;  were  his  mental  meals. 

Also,  he'd  read  of  christian  virtues  in 

That  canting  rag  called  Everybody's  Maga::ine, 

And  heard  a  clergy  that  tries  on  more  wheezes 

Than  e'er  were  heard  of  by  Our  Lord  Ch  . .  .  .  J .  . .  . 

So  he  "faced  life"  with  rather  mixed  intentions. 


The    Little     Review 


He  had  attended  country  Christian  Endeavour  Conventions, 

Where  one  gets  more  chances 

Than  Spanish  ladies  had  in  old  romances. 

(Let  him  rebuke  who  ne'er  has  known  the  pure  Platonic  grapple. 

Or  hugged  two  girls  at  once  behind  a  chapel.) 

Such  practices  diluted  rural  boredom 

Though  some  approved  of  them,  and  some  deplored  'em. 

Such  was  he  when  he  got  his  mother's  letter 

And  would  not  think  a  thing  that  could  upset  her ...  , 

Yet  saw  on  "ad."    "To-night.  THE  HUDSON  SAIL", 

With  forty  queens,  and_ music  to  regale 

The  select  company:  beauties  you  all  would  know 

By  name,  if  named".    So  it  was  phrased,  or  rather  somewhat  so 

I  have  mislaid  the  "ad.",  but  note  the  touch, 

Note,  reader,  note  the  sentimental  touch  : 

His  mother's  birthday  gift.     (How  pitiful 

That  only  sentimental  stuff  will  sell!) 

Yet  Radway  went.     A  circumspections  prig! 
And  then  that  woman  like  a  guinea-pig 
Accosted,  that's  the  word,  accosted  him. 
Thereon  the  amorous  calor  slightly  frosted  him. 
(I  burn,  I  freeze,  I  sweat,  said  the  fair  Greek, 
I  speak  in  contradictions,  so  to  speak.) 

I've  told  his  training,  he  was  never  bashful, 

And  his  pockets  by  ma's  aid,  that  night  with  cash  full, 

The  invitation  had  no  need  of  fine  aesthetic. 

Nor  did  disgust  prove  such  a  strong  emetic 

That  we,  with  Masefield's  vein,  in  the  next  sentence 

Record  "Odd's  blood!    Ouch!  Ouch!"  a  prayer,  his  swift  repentence. 

No.  no,  they  danced.       The  music  grew  much  louder 
As  he  inhaled  the  still  fumes  of  rice-powder. 
Then  there  came  other  nights,  came  slow  but  certain 
And  were  such  nights  that  we  should  "draw  the  curtain" 


ThcLittleReview  13 


In  writing  fiction  on  uncertain  chances 

Of  publication;  "Circumstances", 

As  the  editor  of  The  Century  says  in  print, 

"Compel  a  certain  silence  and  restraint." 

Still  we  will  bring  our  "fiction  as  near  to  fact"  as 

The  Sunday  school  brings  virtues  into  practice. 

Soon  our  hero  could  manage  once  a  week, 

Not  that  his  pay  had  risen,  and  no  leak 

Was  found  in  his  employer's  cash.     He  learned  the  lay  of  cheaper 

places, 
And  then  Radway  began  to  go  the  paces: 
h  rosy  path,  a  sort  of  vernal  ingress, 
And  Truth  should  here  be  careful  of  her  thin  dress  — 
Though  males  of  seventy,  who  fear  truths  naked  harm  us. 
Must  think  Truth  looks  as  they  do  in  wool  pyjamas. 
(My  country,  I've  said  your  morals  and  your  thoughts  are  stale 

ones, 
But  surely  the  worst  of  your  old-women  are  the  male  ones.) 

Why  paint  these  days?     An  insurance  inspector 

For  fires  and  odd  risks,  could  in  this  sector 

Furnish  more  date  for  a  compilation 

Than  I  can  from  this  distant  land  and  station. 

Unless  perhaps  I  should  have  recourse  to 

One  of  those  firm-faced  inspecting  women,  who 

Find  pretty  Irish  girls  in  Chinese  laundries, 

Up  stairs,  the  third  floor  up,  and  have  such  quandaries 

As  to  how  and  why  and  whereby  they  got  in 

And  for  what  earthly  reason  they  remain .... 

Alas,  ehen,  one  question  that  sorely  vexes 

The  serious  social  folk  is  "just  what  sex  is". 

Though  it  will,  of  course,  pass  off  with  social  science 

In  which  their  mentors  place  such  wide  reliance. 

De  Gourmont  says  that  fifty  grunts  are  all  that  will  be  prized 


14  The     Little     Review 

Of  language,  by  men  wholly  socialized, 

With  signs  as  many,  that  shall  represent  'em 

When  thoroughly  socialized  printers  want  to  print  'em. 

"As  free  of  mobs  as  kings."?     I'd  have  men  free  of  that  invidious. 

Lurking,  serpentine,  amphibious  and  insidious 

Power  that  compels  'em 

To  be  so  much  alike  that  every  dog  that  smells  'em. 

Thinks  one  identity  is 

Smeared  o'er  the  lot  in  equal  quantities. 

Still  we  look  toward  the  day  when  man,  with  unction, 

Will  long  only  to  be  a  social  junction. 

And  even  Zeus'  wild  lightning  fear  to  strike 

Lest  it  should  fail  to  treat  all  men  alike. 

And  I  can  hear  an  old  man  saying:  ''Oh,  the  rub! 

"I  see  them  sitting  in  the  Harvard  Club, 

"And  rate  'em  up  at  just  so  much  per  head, 

"Know  what  they  think,  and  just  what  books  they've  read, 

"Till  I  have  viewed  straw  hats  and  their  habitual  clothing 

"All  the  same  style,  same  cut.  with  perfect  loathing." 

So  Radway  walked,  quite  like  the  other  men,   • 

Out  into  the  crepuscular  half-light,  now  and  then; 

Saw  what  the  city  offered,  cast  an  eye 

Upon  Manhattan's  gorgeous  panoply. 

The  flood  of  limbs  upon  Eighth  Avenue 

To  heat  Prague,  Budapesth,  Vienna  or  Moscow,* 

Such  animal  invigorating  carriage 

As  nothing  can  restrain  or  much  disparage.  .  .  . 

Still  he  was  not  given  up  to  brute  enjoyment, 

An  anxious  sentiment  was  his  employment, 

For  memory  of  the  first  warm  night  still  cast  a  haze  o'er 

The  mind  of  Radway,  whene'er  he  found  a  pair  of  purple  stays  or 

Some  other  quaint  reminder  of  the  occasion 


*   Pronounce  like  respecta])le   Russians:  "Mussqu". 


The    Little    Review  15 

That  first  made  him  believe  in  immoral  suasion. 

A  temperate  man,  a  thin  potationist,  each  day 

A  silent  hunter  off  the  Great  White  Way, 

He  read  The  Century  and  thought  it  nice 

To  be  not  too  well  known  in  haunts  of  vice  — 

The  prominent  haunts,  where  one  might  recognize  him, 

And  in  his  daily  walks  duly  capsize  him. 

Thus  he  eschewed  the  bright  red-walled  cafes  and 

Was  never  one  of  whom  one  speaks  as  '•  brazen 'd". 

Some  men  will  live  as  prudes  in  their  own  village 

And  make  the  tour  abroad  for  their  wild  tillage  — 

I  knew  a  tourist  agent,  one  whose  art  is 

To  run  such  tours.    He  calls  'em  ....  house  parties. 

But  Radway  was  a  patriot  whose  venality 

Was  purer  in  its  love  of  one  locality, 

A  home-industrious  worker  to  perfection, 

A  senatorial  jobber  for  protection, 

Especially  on  books,  lest  knowledge  break  in 

Upon  the  national  brains  and  set  'em  achin'. 

('Tis  an  anomaly  in  our  large  land  of  freedom. 

You  can  not  get  cheap  books,  even  if  you  need  'em). 

Radway  was  ignorant  as  an  editor. 

And,  heavenly,  holy  gods!     I  can't  say  more, 

Though  I  know  one,  a  very  base  detractor. 

Who  has  the  phrase  "As  ignorant  as  an  actor". 

But  turn  to  Radway:  the  first  night  on  the  river. 

Running  so  close  to  "hell"  it  sends  a  shiver 

Down  Rodyheaver's  prophylactic  spine, 

Let  me  return  to  this  bold  theme  of  mine. 

Of  Radway.     O  clap  hand  ye  moralists! 

And  meditate  upon  the  Lord's  conquests. 

When  last  I  met  him,  he  was  a  pillar  in 

An  organization  for  the  suppression  of  sin  ...  . 


1 6  T  h  e    Li  t  tl  e    Re  view 

Not  that  he'd  changed  his  tastes,  nor  yet  his  habits, 
(Such  changes  don't  occur  in  men.  or  rabbits). 
Xot  that  he  was  a  saint,  nor  was  lop-loftical 
In  spiritual  aspirations,  but  he  found  it  profitable. 
For  as  Ben  Franklin  said,  with  such  urbanity: 
■•'Nothing  will  pay  thee,  friend,  like  Christianity", 
And  in  our  day    thus  saith  the  Evangelist: 
"Tent  prcachin'  is  the  kind  that  paj'-s  the  best." 

*Twas  as  a  business  asset  pure  an'  simple 

That  Radway  joined  the  Baptist  Ikoadway  Temple. 

I  find  no  moral  for  a  peroration. 

He  is  the  prototype  of  half  the  nation. 


Eeldrop    and    Appleplex 
T.  H.  Eliot 

II 

THE  suburban  evening  was  grey  and  yellow  on  Sunday;  the 
gardens  of  the  small  houses  to  left  and  right  were  rank  with 
ivy  and  tall  grass  and  liliac  bushes;  the  tropical  South  London 
verdure  was  dusty  above  and  mouldy  below;  the  tepid  air  swarmed 
with  flies.  Eeldrop,  at  the  window,  welcomed  the  smoky  smell 
of  lilac,  the  gramaphones.  the  choir  of  the  Baptist  chapel,  and  the 
sight  of  three  small  girls  playing  cards  on  the  steps  of  the  po- 
lice station. 

"On  such  a  night  as  this",  said  Eeldrop,  "I  often  think  of 
Scheherazade,  and  wonder  what  has  become  of  her". 

Appleplex  rose  without  speaking  and  turned  to  the  files  which 
contained  the  documents  for  his  "Survey  of  Contemporary  Society". 
He  removed  the  file  marked  Lo)idon  from  between  the  files  Barcel- 
ona and  Boston  where  it  had  been  misplaced,  and  turned  over  the 
papers  rapidly.  "The  lady  you  mention",  he  rejoined  at  last, 
"whom  I  have  listed  not  under  S.  but  as  Edith,  alias  Scheherazade, 


The     Little     Review  17 

has  left  but  few  evidences  in  my  possession.  Here  is  an  old  laun- 
dry account  which  she  left  for  you  to  pay,  a  cheque  drawn  by  her 
and  marked  "R/D",  a  letter  from  her  mother  in  Honolulu  (on 
ruled  paper),  a  poem  written  on  a  restaurant  bill— "To  Atthis" — and 
a  letter  by  herself,  on  Lady  Equistep's  best  notepaper,  containing 
some  damaging  but  entertaining  information  about  Lady  Equistep. 
Then  there  are  my  own  few  observations  on  two  sheets  of  foolscap". 

•'Edith",  murmured  Eeldrop,  who  had  not  been  attending  to  this 
catalogue,  "I  wonder  what  has  become  of  her.  'Not  pleasure,  but 
fulness  of  life  ....  to  burn  ever  with  a  hard  gem-like  flame',  those 
were  her  words.  What  curiosity  and  passion  for  experience!  Per- 
haps that  flame  has  burnt  itself  out  by  now." 

"You  ought  to  inform  yourself  better",  said  Appleplex  severely, 
''Edith  dines  sometimes  with  Mrs  Howexden,  who  tells  me  that  her 
passion  for  experience  has  taken  her  to  a  Russian  pianist  in  Bays- 
water.  She  is  also  said  to  be  present  often  at  the  Anarchist  Tea 
Rooms,  and  can  usually  be  found  in  the  evening  at  the  Cafe  de 
rOrangerie." 

"Well",  replied  Eeldrop.  "I  confess  that  I  prefer  to  wonder  what 
has  become  of  her.  I  do  not  like  to  think  of  her  future.  Sche- 
herazade grown  old!  I  see  her  grown  very  plump,  full-bosomed, 
with  blond  hair,  living  in  a  small  flat  with  a  maid,  walking  in  the 
Park  with  a  Pekinese,  motoring  with  a  Jewish  stock-broker.  With  a 
fierce  appetite  for  food  and  drink,  when  all  other  appetite  is 
gone,  all  other  appetite  gone  except  the  insatiable  increasing  ap- 
petite of  vanity;  rolling  on  two  wide  legs,  rolling  in  motorcars, 
rolling  toward  a  diabetic  end  in  a  seaside  watering  place". 

"Just  now  you  saw  that  bright  flame  burning  itself  out,"  said 
Appleplex,  "now  you  see  it  guttering  thickly,  which  proves  that 
your  vision  was  founded  on  imagination,  not  on  feeling.  And 
the  passion  for  experience — have  you  remained  so  impregnably 
Pre-Raphaelite  as  to  believe  in  that?  WTiat  real  person,  with  the 
genuine  resources  of  instinct,  has  ever  believed  in  the  passion  for 
experience?  The  passion  for  experience  is  a  criticism  of  the  sin- 
cere, a  creed  only  of  the  histrionic.  The  passionate  person  is 
passionate  about  this  or  that,  perhaps  about  the  least  significant 
things,  but  not  about  experience.  But  Marius,  des  Esseintes, 
Edith  .  ..."      • 

"But  consider",  said  Eeldrop.  attentive  only  to  the  facts  of 
Edith's  histor3^  and  perhaps  missing  the  point  of  Appleplex 's  re- 
marks, "her  unusual  career.     The  daughter  of  a  piano  tuner  in 


The     Little     Review 


Honolulu,  she  secured  a  scholarship  at  the  University  of  California, 
where  she  graduated  with  Honours  in  Social  Ethics.  She  then 
married  a  celebrated  billiard  professional  in  San  Francisco,  after 
an  accjuaintance  of  twelve  hours,  lived  with  him  for  two  days, 
joined  a  musical  comedy  chorus,  ^and  was  divorced  in  Nevada. 
She  turned  up  several  years  later  in  Paris  and  was  known  to  all 
the  Americans  and  English  at  the  Cafe  du  Dome  as  Mrs  Short.  She 
reappeared  in  London  as  Mrs  Griffiths,  published  a  small  volume  of 
verse,  and  was  accepted  in  several  circles  known  to  us.  And  now, 
as  I  still  insist,  she  has  disappeared  from  society  altogether." 

*'The  memory  of  Scheherazade",  said  Appleplex.  "is  to  me  that  of 
Bird's  custard  and  prunes  in  a  Bloomsbury  boarding  house.  It 
is  not  my  intention  to  rei)resent  Edith  as  merely  disreputable. 
Neither  is  she  a  tragic  figure.  I  want  to  know  why  she  misses. 
I  cannot  altogether  analyse  her  'into  a  combination  of  known  el- 
ements' but  1  fail  to  touch  anytliing  definately  unanalysable. 

"Is  Edith,  in  spite  of  her  romantic  past,  pursuing  steadily  some 
hidden  purpose  of  her  own?  Are  her  migrations  and  eccentricities 
the  sign  of  some  unguessed  consistency?  I  find  in  her  a  cjuantity 
of  shrewd  observation,  an  excellent  fund  of  criticism,  but  I  cannot 
connect  them  into  any  peculiar  vision.  Her  sarcasm  at  the  ex- 
pense of  her  friends  is  delightful,  but  1  doubt  whether  it  is  more 
than  an  attempt  to  mould  herself  from  outside,  by  the  impact  of 
hostilities,  to  emphasise  her  isolation.  Everyone  says  of  her,  'How 
perfectly  impenetrable!'  I  suspect  that  within  there  is  only  the 
confusion  of  a  dusty  garret". 

"I  test  people",  said  Eeldrop,  "by  the  way  in  which  I  imagine 
them  as  waking  up  in  the  morning.  I  am  not  drawing  upon  mem- 
ory when  I  imagine  Edith  waking  to  a  room  strewn  with  clothes, 
papers,  cosmetics,  letters  and  a  few  books,  the  smell  of  Violettes 
de  Parme  and  stale  tobacco.  The  sunlight  beating  in  through 
broken  blinds,  and  broken  blinds  keeping  out  the  sun  until  Edith 
can  compel  herself  to  attend  to  another  day.  Yet  the  vision  does 
not  give  me  much  pain.  I  think  of  her  as  an  artist  without  the 
slightest  artistic  power". 

"The  artistic  temperament — "  began  Appleplex. 

"No,  not  that".  Eeldrop  snatched  away  the  opportunity.  "I 
mean  that  what  holds  the  artist  together  is  the  work  which  he 
does;  separate  him  from  his  work  and  he  either  disintegrates  or 
solidifies.  There  is  no  interest  in  the  artist  apart  from  his  work. 
And  there  are,  as  you  said,  those  people  who  provide  material  for 


T  It  e     Li  t  tl  c     Rev  lew  19 

the  artist.  Now  Edith's  poem  'To  Atthis'  proves  beyond  the  shad- 
ow of  a  doubt  that  she  is  not  an  artist.  On  the  other  hand  I 
have  often  thought  of  her,  as  I  thought  this  evening,  as  presenting 
possibilities  for  poetic  purposes.  But  the  people  who  can  be  mate- 
rial for  art  must  have  in  them  something  unconscious,  something 
w^hich  they  do  not  fully  realise  or  understand.  Edith,  in  spite  of 
what  is  called  her  impenetrable  mask,  presents  Iierself  too  well.  I 
cannot  use  Iter;  she  uses  herself  too  fully.  Partly  for  the  same 
reason  I  think,  she  fails  to  be  an  artist:  she  does  not  live  at  all 
upon  instinct.  The  artist  is  part  of  him  a  drifter,  at  the  mercy 
of  impressions,  and  another  part  of  him  allows  this  to  happen  for 
the  sake  of  making  use  of  the  unhappy  creature.  But  in  Edith 
the  division  is  merely  the  rational,  the  cold  and  detached  part  of 
the  artist,  itself  divided.  Her  material,  her  experience  that  is,  is 
already  a  mental  product,  already  digested  by  reason.  Hence 
Edith  (I  only  at  this  moment  a,rrive  at  understanding)  is  really  the 
most  orderly  person  in  existence,  and  the  most  rational.  Nothing 
ever  happens  to  her;   everything  that  happens  is  her  own  doing." 

"And  hence  also",  continued  Appleplex,  catching  up  the  thread. 
"Edith  is  the  lea^t  detached  of  all  persons,  since  to  be  detached 
is  to  be  detached  from  one's  self,  to  stand  by  and  criticise  coldly 
one's  own  passions  and  vicissitudes.  But  in  Edith  the  critic  is 
coaching  the  combatant." 

"Edith  is  not  unhappy". 

"She  is  dissatisfied,  perhaps". 

"But  again  I  say,  she  is  not  tragic:  she  is  too  rational.  And  in 
her  career  there  is  no  progression,  no  decline  or  degeneration. 
Her  condition  is  once  and  for  always.  There  is  and  will  be  no 
catastrophe". 

"But  I  am  tired.  I  still  wonder  what  Edith  and  Mrs  Howexden 
have  in  common.  This  invites  the  consideration  (you  may  not 
perceive  the  connection)  of  Sets  and  Society,  a  subject  which  we 
can  pursue  tomorrow  night". 

Appleplex  looked  a  little  embarrassed.  "I  am  dining  with  Mrs 
Howexden",  he  said.  "But  I  will  reflect  upon  the  topic  before 
I  see  you  again". 


20  The     Little     Review 

Imaginary    Letters 

IV 

(Walter  Villerant  to  Mrs.  Bland  Burn) 

Ezra  Pound 

MY  DEAR  LYDIA: 
Your  rather  irascible  husband  asks  for  "Aunt  Sallys"*; 
with  the  Pyrenees  before  me  and  at  this  late  date,  it  is  difficult  to 
provide  them.  I  agree  with  at  least  half  he  says.  I  am,  with 
qualifications,  Malthusian.  I  should  consent  to  breed  under  pres- 
sure, if  I  were  convinced  in  any  way  of  the  reasonableness  of 
reproducing  the  species.  But  my  nerves  and  the  nerves  of  any 
woman  I  could  live  with  three  months,  would  produce  only  a  vic- 
tim— beautiful  perhaps,  but  a  victim:  expiring  of  aromatic  pain 
from  the  jasmine,  lacking  in  impulse,  a  mere  bundle  of  discrimin- 
ations. If  I  were  wealthy  I  might  subsidize  a  stud  of  young 
peasants,  or  a  tribal  group  in  Tahiti.  At  present  "valga  mas  estar 
soltero",  I  will  not  take  Miss  J.,  nor  her  income,  nor  the  female 
disciple  of  John. 

There  is  no  truce  between  art  and  the  public.  The  public 
celebrates  its  eucharists  with  dead  bodies.  Its  writers  aspire  to 
equal  the  oyster:  to  get  themselves  swallowed  alive.  They  encom- 
pass it. 

Art  that  sells  on  production  is  bad  art,  essentially.  It  is  art  that 
is  made  to  demand.  It  suits  the  public.  The  taste  of  the 
public  is  bad.  The  taste  of  the  public  is  always  bad.  It  is  bad 
because  it  is  not  an  individual  expression,  but  merely  a  mania  for 
assent,  a  mania  to  be  "in  on  it". 

Even  the  botches  of  a  good  artist  have  some  quality,  some  dis- 
tinction, which  prevents  their  pleasing  mass-palates. 

Good  art  weathers  the  ages  because  once  in  so  often  a  man  of 
intelligence  commands  the  mass  to  adore  it.  His  contemporaries 
call  him  a  nuisance,  their  children  follow  his  instructions,  include 
him  in  the  curricula.     I  am  not  lifting  my  voice  in  protest;   I  am 


*  "Imaginary   Letters",   by    Wyndliam   Lewis.     The  Little  Keviczv 
for  May. 


The     Little     Review  21 


merely  defining  a  process.     I  do  not  protest  against  the  leaves 
falling  in  autumn. 

The  arts  are  kept  up  by  a  very  few  people;  they  always  have 
been  kept  up,  when  kept  up  at  all,  by  a  very  few  people.  A 
great  art  patron  is  a  man  who  keeps  up  great  artists.  A  good 
art  patron  is  a  man  who  keeps  up  good  artists.  His  reputation 
is  coterminous  with  the  work  he  has  patronized.  He  can  not 
be  an  imbecile. 

There  are  a  few  more  people  capable  of  knowing  good  art 
when  they  see  it.  Half  of  them  are  indiffernt,  three  fourths  of 
them  are  inactive,  the  exceeding  few  side  with  the  artist;  about  all 
they  can  do  is  to  feed  him.  Others,  hating  his  art.  may  from 
family  or  humanitarian  motives,  feed  and  clothe  him  in  spite  of  his 
art  ....  and  attempt  to  divorce  him  from  it. 

These  statements  are  simple,  dull.  One  should  write  them  in 
electric  lights  and  hang  them  above  Coney  Island,  and  beside  the 
Sarsaparilla  sign  on  Broadway!  The  Biblical  Text  Society  should 
embellish  them  upon  busses. 

Unfortunately  the  turmoil  of  yidds.  letts,  finns.  esthonians. 
cravats,  niberians,  nubians,  algerians.  sweeping  along  Eighth  Ave- 
nue in  the  splendour  of  their  vigorous  unwashed  animality  will  not 
help  us.    They  are  the  America  of  tomorrow  .... 

(The  good  Burn  belives  in  America;  the  naive  English,  mad 
over  apriculture,  horticulture  arboriculture,  herbiculture,  agricul- 
ture, asparagriculture  etc.,  always  believe  in  America  ....  until  they 
have  seen  it.) 

The  turmoil  of  Yidds,  Letts,  etc..  is  ''full  of  promise",  full 
of  vitality.  They  are  the  sap  of  the  nation,  our  heritors,  the  heri- 
tors of  our  ancient  acquisitions.  But  our  job  is  to  turn  out  good  art. 
that  is  to  produce  it,  to  make  a  tradition. 

''My  field  must  be  ploughed  up,  but  the  country  has  need  of 
quiet"  (La  Famille  Cardinal).  "I  admire  Epicurus.  He  was  not 
the  dupe  of  analogies".  Need  I  give  references  for  all  my  quota- 
tions? 

This  nonsense  about  art  for  the  many,  for  the  majority.  J'en. 
ai  soupe.  It  may  be  fitting  that  men  should  enjoy  equal  ''civic 
and  political  rights",  these  things  are  a  matter  of  man's  exterior 
acts,  of  exterior  contacts.  ( Macchiavelli  believed  in  democracy:: 
it  lay  beyond  his  experience).  The  arts  have  nothing  to  do  with 
this.  They  are  man's  life  w'ithin  himself.  The  king's  .writ  does  not 
run  there.  The  voice  of  the  majority  is  powerless  to  make  me  en- 
joy, or  disenjoy.  the  lines  of  Catullus.     I  dispense  with   a  vote 


2  2  The     Little     Review 

without  inconvenience;   Villon  I  would  not  dispense  with. 

Bales  are  written  on  the  false  assumption  that  you  can  treat 
the  arts  as  if  they  were  governed  by  civic  analogies.  The  two 
things  are  not  alike,  and  there  is  an  end  to  the  matter. 

It  is  rubbish  to  say  "art  for  the  people  lies  behind  us".  The 
populace  was  paid  to  attend  greek  drama.  It  would  have  gone  to 
cinemas  instead,  had  cinemas  then  existed.  Art  begins  with  the 
artist.  It  goes  first  to  the  very  few;  and,  next,  to  the  few  very 
idle.  Even  journalism  and  advertising  can  not  reverse  this  law.  I 
have  scribbled  a  very  long  letter,  and  not  answered  half  the 
good  William's  diatribe.     My  regards  to  Mrs  Amelia. 

Yours, 

Walter  Villerant. 


The    Children    and    Judas 
Robert  Alden  Sanborn 

It  was  dawn  upon  the  fields  of  Heaven, 

The  dew  upon  the  fence-rail  twinkled, 

And  there  were  seven 

Stars  upon  the  sky  that  beamed; 

And  in  the  grass  the  cow-bells  tinkled, 

And  daisies  dreamed. 

And  sweet  smells  streamed 

Over  the  tasselled  corn. 

God  lay  dimmed  in  slumber, 

And  Jesus'  warm  hair  was  pillowed  on  His  Father's  breast; 

Seven  disciples  like  seven  points  of  a  star 

Were  rayed  about  the  sleeping  Majesties, 

And  Judas  was  brighter  than  the  rest, 

Because  his  spirit  had  a  fiercer  sin  to  burn. 

His  ruddy  hair  was  rimmed  with  dew. 

And  what  he  was  to  me  he  is  to  you. 


The    Little    Review  23 

There  was  no  sound 

But  the  lyric  murmur  of  a  Mary,  singing 

Low  upon  the  ground. 

Where  a  brook  ran  upon  a  secret  errand 

Like  a  silver  hound 

Slipping  beneath  the  unbound  hair  of  trees; 

Mary  was  singing  to  the  least  of  these. 

Some  Children. 

All  listened. 

For  the  breath  of  her  caressed  the  silence 

With  curves  of  melody; 

And  hence  the  very  corfi  awoke  to  hear. 

And  to  inhale  the  healing  psalmody. 

So  because  the  grass,  the  daisies,  stirred 

Pleasantly,  and  light  wings  whirred 

As  birds  arose  from  nests, 

And  quests  of  dew  and  honey  went  upon, 

The  Children,  one  by  one,  moved  about, 

And  some  would  run  up  the  hill, 

And  back  again;  another  seemed  to^out, 

But  changed  and  blew  a  glad  shrill  whistle  out 

That  pleased  the  sailing  stars. 

Then  Mary  ceased  her  song, 

And  silence  fell  like  shadow  on  them  all. 

Now  amongst  the  ones  who  slept 

Judas  raised  his  head; 

Sleep  never  touched  his  eyes  with  cool  forgetfulness. 

Instead  his  soul  was  fed  with  sin 

That  never  flickered  out  within. 

He  yawned  and  bent  his  knees. 
And  the  tongue  of  a  silver  bell 


The    Little     Review 


Shivered  above  the  sleeping  Majesties 

Within  the  ring  of  seven. 

Because  there  were  but  six 

When  Judas  vaulted  the  fence-rail 

Out  of  the  fields  of  Heaven. 

And  now  you  could  hear  Jesus  breathe. 

And  God  murmur  peace  upon  the  wakeful  corn. 

"God!" 

A  spire  of  frail  sound  rose  from  a  boyish  will, 
"See  God,  He's  walking  down  the  hill, 
See.  Mary!" 

And  Mary  looked  up 

And  saw  Judas  coming  toward  them, 

The  sweet  hand  of  a  Child  in  the  cup  of  either  hand. 

"Shall  I  tell  them  the  truth,  Judas, 
That  you  are  far  from  God,"  said  she, 
"Or  will  you  burn  them  with  your  sin, 
You  who  are  no  kin  to  such  as  these. 
And  drive  them  back  to  me. 
Crying  bitterly?" 

A  smile  struggled  with  his  twisted  face. 

But  could  not  give  it  grace, 

And  the  two  Children,  wary 

Of  the  lurid  tumult  in  his  breast, 

Wrested  their  twined  fingers  from  the  gnarled  hold  of  him, 

And  their  eyes  dim  with  tears, 

Ran  back  to  Mary. 

Judas,  the  silent  shadow  of  a  man. 

His  will  as  heavy  as  a  fallen  tree  in  a  wood, 

Stood  upon  the  hill. 


The    Little    Review  25 

And  watched  the  Children  as  they  ran, 

Saw  them  nestle  into  Mary's  arms, 

Seeking  in  the  cloudy  charms 

Of  her  loosened  hair, 

The  peace  they  knew  was  there. 

Words  crowded  in  his  throat, 
And  he  sat  upon  the  hillside 
With  his  face  between  his  knees. 

Now  when  his  face  was  hidden 

From  the  least  of  these, 

One,  bidden  by  the  helplessness 

Of  the  man  on  the  side  of  the  hill, 

Came  from  the  shelter  of  Mary's  hair, 

And  minding  not  her  warning  touch. 

Nor  her  sounding  of  his  name. 

Knowing  he  was  not  chidden  much, 

Went  winding  an  idle  way 

Up  the  hill,  and  around  and  away 

From  the  still  bowed  man. 

And  first  he  picked  a  flower 

Which  he  threw  higher  toward  the  fence-rail. 

God  smiled  in  His  sleep. 

And  Jesus  opened  His  eyes, 

Put  forth  a  hand  for  the  plucked  flower. 

And  hid  it  in  His  breast, 

Yet  did  not  rise  nor  cease  His  rest. 

The  Child, 

Keeping  a  moody  soft  eye  upon  the  grey  humped  figure, 

Betrayed  his  mischief  in  a  smile 

That  waxed  bigger,  bubble-like,  and  broke  into  a  laugh, 


26  The     Lin  I  e    Review 

And  like  a  thief  in  the  night 
Crept  up  the  hill  to  the  fence-rail, 
And  peeked. 

The  fence-rail  creaked 

As  Jesus  turned  His  face  to  him: 

"Poor  man.  dear  boy."  he  whispered  silverly, 

"Until  he  learns  to  play. 

To  dress  his  dusty  head 

With  ribbons  of  the  rosy  day, 

Never  can  he  share 

Your  early  morning  passion, 

Flecked  with  foamy  curls  of  "hair. 

Would  you  give  him  back  again 

To  my  bosom,  cleansed  of  pain, 

Spill  your  living  ways  of  laughing 

In  his  muffled  ears; 

At  him.  and  beset  him!   Splash  him.  little  dears, 

In  your  fun."  Jesus  bade  the  boy. 

"Run!" 

And  the  Child  winked,  Yes, 

Turned  about  and  ran. 

Put  his  flying  hands  upon  the  shoulders  of  the  man, 

And  while  a  star  bfinlved 

At  what  he  saw. 

The  Child  broke  the  law  of  sin 

As  he  leaped  over  Judas  in  the  old,  old  game; 

Ran  screaming  down  to  Mary's  covering  hair, 

But  did  not  linger  there; 

Sped  back  and  bounded  over  once  again. 

And  others  captured  by  the  first  one's  joy 

Were  startled  into  rapture 

And  followed,  girl  and  boy, 

In  the  glamour  of  the  game. 

Until  the  sunken  man  became 


The    Little    Review  27 


Bathed  and  spattered, 

Shaken,  shattered  and  half-hidden, 

In  the  breaking  foam  of  Children. 

There  came  a  pause 

When  the  Little  Ones,  breathing 

Hard  about  Judas,  saw  him  raise  his  head, 

Saw  a  smile  like  theirs,  wreathing 

His  face,  washed  with  sleep, 

As  though  he  waked  in  his  bed 

From  the  keep  of  angels. 

In  his  eyes  rememberance  shone 

Of  when  he  was  a  boy 

And  looked  upon  the  face  of  God  everywhere; 

Of  when  he  was  himself  a  toy, 

A  plaything  of  a  God  who  dreamed 

Everywhere  and  everything. 

And  when  the  Children  saw 

Upon  his  face  the  broken  law 

Of  sin  dissolve  like  shadows 

In  a  ruined  wood; 

When  they  saw  the  sun  come  up 

Within  him,  fill  his  face  as  the  cup 

Of  the  world  is  filled. 

They  spilled  their  bubbling  laughter  on  the  air, 

And  cuddled  to  his  knees 

As  though  he,  too,  were  of  the  least  of  these. 

His  greedy  arms  inarticulately  stuffed 

With  bloomy  charms, 

His  roughed  voice  sweet 

With  honey  of  his  joy,  he  began: 


28  The    Little    Review 

"Now  when  1  was  a  boy 

I  had  as  little  as  you  to  give  me  joy, 

And  made  as  much  of  it, 

Made  a  world  of  many  mansions 

Each  great  enough  for  God  to  dwell  in; 

Yes,  mansions  of  my  little  joy, 

Even  as  do  you." 

"Do  we?"  asked  one  thoughtfully, 
And,  "What  is  mansion?"  said  another. 
"And  who  put  the  shadows  in  your  face?" 
"And  who  took  them  away  again?" 

"A  great  light  put  the  shadows  in  my  face." 

Said  he; 

"Because  I  hoarded  it  within. 

And  boarded  it  up  with  sin 

Of  my  importance ; 

Because  I  would  not  dance  with  joy  of  it 

Like  a  brook  prancing  to  the  sea, 

But  in  a  deep  dark  well 

Sealed  the  living  spirit  up; 

What  grace  of  it  I  could  not  keep 

I  would  not  give  away 

In  play,  like  you." 

"Do  we?"  asked  one  closer  than  the  rest. 

"And  who  is  Grace?"  from  another  troubled  breast. 

"And  what  is  sin?" 

"Sin  is  a  stone," 

Dreamed  Judas,  his  chin  on  a  silky  head, 

"Which  when  a  seed  is  blown 

Upon  it,  harbors  not 

The  desire  of  a  flower  in  the  seed, 


The     Little     Review  29 

But  must  be  broken  by  the  shower, 

And  a  deal  of  shining, 

And  the  bold  clutch  of  cold; 

Grace  is  the  flower 

Of  desire  in  the  seed, 

And  sin  is  the  stone  that  will  not  feed  the  flower." 

'^Here  is  a  flower," 

Said  a  Child  with  a  daffodil. 

"And  here  is  a  stone, 

Will  you  show  us  how 

The  stone  won't  feed  the  flower?" 

"Yes.  will  you  now?"  chattered  all. 

Judas  took  the  stone  in  one  hand. 

And  in  the  other  raised  a  black  leather  bag 

That  sagged  from  the  girdle  at  his  waist. 

"There  is  little  grace  in  either. 

As  much  in  one  as  in  the  other," 

Murmured  Judas,  helfting  the  leather  bag. 

"Oh,  I  hear  something  jingle,"  said  a  little  blond  brother. 
"Are  they  sins?"  said  his  sister. 

"NO I"  spoke  a  voice  like  the  beat  of  a  great  wing 
On  the  air  behind  Judas. 

Then  a  white  light  shone  upon  him, 
Through  him  spread  the  light 
So  that  no  shadow  of  him  fell 
Like  night  around  the  Children. 
And  Judas  looked  up, 
And  saw  Jesus  standing  there. 

"See,  Children!"  cried  Jesus,  with  many  smiles, 


30  The    Little    Review 

"What  the  good  Judas  has  brought  you  all  these  years; 
See.  my  dears,  what  he  has  saved  all  the  stony  hilly  miles, 
For  you!" 

And  Jesus  opened  the  black  leather  bag. 
And  brought  forth  hands  full  of  sweet  bread 
Which  he  fed  to  the  Children. 

Then  Judas,  his  hands  sticky 
With  crumby  kisses  of  the  Little  Ones, 
Went  lip  the  hill  with  the  great  Lover, 
Under  the  cover  of  H^s  arm, 
All  harm  gone  from  him. 


The    Reader    Critic 
Yeats's  "Upon  a  Dying  Lady" 


J.,  New  York: 

I  wonder  how  many  of  your  readers  know  that  the  Seven  Poems 
by  William  Butler  Yeats  in  the  August  number  of  The  Little  Review 
were  inspired  by  and  written  about  Miss  Mabel  Beardsley,  the  sister 
of  Aubrey  Beardsley?  I  remember  when  Yeats  was  writing  them. 
She  was  dying  of  a  lingering  illness.  She  was  a  Catholic,  and  it  is 
of  course  well  known  that  Aubrey  Beardsley  became  a  Catholic  be- 
fore he  died.  Artists,  poets  and  writers  like  Charles  Shannon  and 
Charles  Ricketts,  W.  B.  Yeats,  and  other  old  friends  of  her  brother 
and  herself,  used  to  take  turns  tn  visiting  her.  Some  of  them  made 
points  of  collecting  their  best  and  in  some  cases  most  improper 
stories  for  her,  I  hope  that  she  kept  a  diary  and  entered 
some  of  the  stories  in  it.  W.  B.  Yeats  was  tremendously  moved  by 
her  fine  spirit  and  gaiety.     The  Seven  Poems  were  the  result. 


The     Little     Review  31 

The  story  is  one  that  Meredith  would  have  loved.  And  she  was 
a  joyous  creature  that  Meredith  would  have  loved  had  he  known  her. 
There  was  no  wearing  of  black  there,  no  making  a  luxury  of  her 
grief,  no  flaunting  it  in  the  faces  of  others,  even  though  they  might 
S3'mpathize  with  or  share  her  feelings.  It  was  all  quite  French,  what 
a  spirited  French  woman  would  do.  She  would  have  enjoyed  the 
story  published  in  the  Letters  of  Meredith  that  an  old  Cornish  woman 
told  him: 

'A  hunting  Squire  in  her  neighborhood  had  a  very  handsome  wife, 
whom  he  valued  less  than  the  fox's  tail.  One  of  the  Vivians  eyed 
her,  admired,  condoled,  desired  and  carried  her  off.  Some  days  after, 
she  was  taken  with  compunction  or  compassion,  and  about  midnight 
the  forsaken  squire,  sitting  in  his  library,  heard  three  knocks  at  the 
window.  'That's  Bess,'  he  said,  and  let  her  in.  She  was  for  weeping 
and  protesting  repentance,  but  he  kissed  her,  taking  the  blame  on 
himself,  rightly,  and  the  house  was  quiet.  Old  Lady  Vivian,  like 
many  old  ladies,  had  outgrown  her  notions  of  masculine  sentiment 
in  these  matters;  she  said  to  my  friend:  'What  are  the  man's  family 
inaking  such  a  fuss  about!    My  son  only  had  her  a  fortnight!'" 

Gargoyles 

An  Old  Reader: 

I  have  never  been  a  real  subscriber.  The  only  copy  of 
Tlie  Little  Review  I  ever  bought  was  the  memorable  March  issue 
with  Galsworthy's  letter  in  it.  For  a  long  time  after  that  The 
Little  Review  was  my  religion;  it  converted  me  to  a  faith  in  New 
America,  it  inspired  me  to  dreams  and  creative  work.  It  was 
my  first  American  sweetheart,  and  as  long  as  it  remained  such  it 
aroused  in  me  the  whole  gamut  of  love  emotions,  from  passionate 
admiration  to  passionate  hatred.  It  would  pain  me  to  become  just 
a  subscriber,  to  manifest  my  attitude  through  a  dollar  and  a  half. 
Better    leave    the    ashes    undisturbed    by   profane    poking. 

Of  late  I  have  thought  a  good  deal  about  the  magazine.  I 
have  been  camping  near  the  ocean,  and  have  spent  some  time  in 
your  various  haunts  of  last  summer  where  the  natives  still  gossip 
about  the  Little  Review  crowd.  Plunging  at  night  into  the  phos- 
phorous surf  and  other  delightful  sins,  mingled  with  communion 
with  some  Little  Review  worshippers,  has  disturbed  my  academic 
calm  and  provoked  my  reveries.  One  night  I  was  awakened  and 
perceived  an  apparition  moving  from  the  roaring  sea  toward  my 
gigantic  fire.  I  heard  a  voice,  a  wail:  "Help!  Margaret  Ander- 
son is  murdering  me!"     Was  it  the  spirit  of  The  Little  Review'^ 


32  The    Little     Review 

l-'or  surely  the  spirit  of  the  old  Little  Review  is  dead.  You 
seem  to  be  proud  of  your  evolution,  of  the  graves  of  your  old  g"ods 
that  loom  ill  your  eyes  like  stepping-stones  to  those  heights  where 
you  bask  in  the  wisdom  of  the  Ezras.  1  hope  your  new  faith  is 
as  sleeve-deep  as  your  former  acquired  creeds.  For  the  beauty  of 
the  old  Little  Review,  the  secret  of  its  magnetism  and  appeal  to 
Young  America,  lay  in  its  youthfulness,  its  spontaneity,  in  its 
puerility,  if  you  wish.  For  puerility  mates  with  originality.  The 
Ezras  know  too  much.  Their  minds  are  black,  scarcely  smouldering 
logs.  They  are  yogis;  you  remember  how  Galsworthy  hoped  that 
you  would   escape   the   danger   of   becoming  yogis? 

An  Ezraized  Little  Reviezv  will  have  no  appeal  to  Young  Amer- 
ica. Shall  I  tell  you  that  in  my  summer  class  I  had  students  from 
various  western  states  to  the  University  of  California  because 
they  saw  my  name  in  the  catalogue,  and  they  associated  my 
name  with  the  old  Little  Reviezv?  These  worshippers  are  cold  to 
the  recent  issues.  And  I  sympathize  with  them.  The  new  Little 
Review  is  gargoylitic,  monotonously  so.  We  can  still  enjoy  a 
passage  in  Wyndham  Lewis,  although  Remy  de  Gourmont  has 
said  the  same  things  more  beautifully  and  less  flippantly.  _We 
are  still  grateful  for  such  a  jewel  as  Maxwlel  Bodenheim's  "Poet's 
Heart";  Bodenheim  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  Others,  for  he  does 
not  suffer  from  self-consciousness,  from  too-much-knowing.  But 
it  is  Ezra  who  sprawls  all  over  The  Little  Review  and  bedecks  it 
with  gargoyles.  Mr.  Pound  is  digestible  only  in  the  early  minia- 
tures: 

"Oh  fan  of  white  silk,  clear  as  frost  on  the  grass-blade".  .  .  . 

I  hope  that  you  will  soon  tire  of  your  over-sophisticated  as- 
sociates and  drive  them  out  of  the  sanctuary.  After  all  you  are 
a  rock  ....  you  are  still  persisting  at  the  impossible  and  tlie 
miraculous.  I  am  looking  forward  to  the  next  stage  in  your  evo- 
lution. And  T  send  you  my  hearty  greeting,  over  the  gargoylitic 
heads  of  your  miseacres,  for  the  next  fresh,  spontaneous  Little  Reviezv. 

jThis  letter  I  think  will  find  an  echo  in  the  minds  of  many  of 
our  first  subscribers.  I  have  several  faults  to  find  wijth  its  point  of 
view,  but  one  especially:  I  cannot  see  why  personal  qualities  such 
as  freshness,  spontaneity,  enthusiasm,  etc.,  are  in  any  way  a  gurantee 
for  an  interesting  or  important  magazine.  Being  tempermentally 
spontaneous,  my  actions  will  always  be  characterized  by  impulsive- 
ness, etc.  But  I  know  that  spontaneity  will  never  help  me  to  write 
an  immortal  poem.  You  must  keep  things  in  their  proper  corres- 
pondences. 


The     Little     Review 


33 


I  very  spontaneously  accept  the  cooperation  of  a  group  of 
writers  who  can  really  write.  Literature  is  their  medium.  Playing 
the  piano  is  mine.  When  I  play  the  piano  very  beautifully  to  the 
original  Little  Review  "worshippers"  they  will  know  it  is  not  because 
I  am  young  and  fresh  and  enthusiastic  but  because  I  know  a  great 
deal  about  how  the  piano  should  be  played.  I  can't  do  such  things 
to  words.  Wyndham  Lewis  does  it  in  this  issue  in  a  passage — 
"Leonardo's  beauty  consisted  in  a  red  rain  on  the  shadowed  side 
of  heads". .  .  .  That  is  a  matter  of  great  prose.  And  the  only  reason 
for  a  magazine  of  the  Arts  to  be  published  is  that  it  shall  produce 
great  prose,  great  poetry,  great  reproductions  of  sculpture,  painting, 
and  music.  We  are  going  to  have  the  latter  as  soon  as  possible. 
—M.  C.  A.] 

Phases   of  Crazes 

H.  L.  C,  Chicago: 

I  have  just  read  your  circular  letter  in  which  you  state  your 
aims  and  set  forth  your  plans  for  the  future.  It  is  the  best-written 
letter  of  the  kind  I  have  ever  read. 

But  I  don't  like  your  promises,  so  I  am  going  to  risk  your 
Reader  Critic  (that  at  least  is  always  interesting:  no  one  ever  seems 
to  be  safe  from  you)  and  tell  you  why. 

1  wish  you  didn't  have  such  a  craze  for  foreigners  and  self-exiled 
Americans.  I  think  you  have  missed  your  chance  right  here  in  your 
own  country.  I  am  sure  there  are  writers  if  you  would  go  after 
them  who,  if  they  couldn't  write  so  well,  would  on  the  other  hand 
be  writing  in  a  familiar  manner  about  subjects  known  to  us  and  in 
so  doing  be  creating  a  literary  tradition  of  our  own. 

I  am  tired  of  these  floods  of  Russian,  French,  Scandinavian, 
Irish  and  Hindoo  stuff  tl'^it  have  swept  the  country.  The  "war  will 
probably  reduce  the  importation  of  foreign  books,  and  I  for  one 
think  this  will  be  a  good  thing 

[I  should  thing  there  might  be  room  in  America  for  one 
magazine  which  will  pfint  work  just  because  it  is  good,  no  matter 
where  it  is  produced.  All  we  ask  in  this  is  to  be  allowed  a  choice 
of   crazes. 

To  us  is  seems  that  there  is  an  indiscriminate  craze  in  the 
theatre,  in  books,  in  magazines,  and  even  in  exhibition  rooms,  for 
the  American  product  with  all  its  sins  upon  it.  Let  your  fears  for 
the  contamination  or  stifling  from  abroad  of  American  letters  be 
at  rest.     Congress  and  the  established  publisher  have  attended  to  all 


34  T  h  c     I.I  t  i  I  c     R  (■  V  i  e  w 


that.  Ignorance  is  protected  from  invasion  far  better  than  the 
country  itself. 

Each  generation  in  this  country  is  spared  the  shock  of  contem- 
porary foreign  masterpieces.  When  a  masterpiece  reaches  America, 
a  generation  late,  Time  has  tempered  it  to  the  shorn.  I  happen  to 
know  something  of  Tagore's  experience  with  this  protection.  When 
Tagore  was  first  "discovered"  in  America — (lie  had  been  published 
in  London  and  had  with  him  only  a  few  personal  copies  of  his  work) 
— he  sent  to  his  London  publisliers  for  extra  copies  to  meet  the 
requests  of  his  friends.  Aside  from  a  terrific  tariff,  the  red  tape 
and  the  questioning  as  to  the  integrity  of  his  purpose  in  importing 
his  own  books  proved  too  wearing  an  experience:  the  idea  was 
abandoned.  On  his  recent  trip  he  brought  with  him  a  small  collec- 
tion of  very  gentle  Indian  water  colours,  with  no  other  motive  than 
to  create  if  possible  an  understanting  of  Indian  art  in  this  country. 
His  pictures  were  held  up  at  the  port  of  Seattle,  he  wa  called  again 
and  again  before  inspectors,  made  to  swear  all  kinds  of  oaths,  and 
to  deposit  a  fabulous  sum  (some  forty  thousand  dollars,  as  I  re- 
member) to  assure  the  government  that  liis  intentions  were  all 
right. 

As  he  was  leaving  the  country  some  one  asked  him  if  he  ever 
intended  making  another  visit, — (there  had  been  some  agitation  be- 
fore this  about  including  the  Hindoo  in  the  Oriental  Immigration 
laws) — and  Tagore  replied'  "1  do  not  know.  You  will  make  a  law 
against  the  Hindoo  coming  to  your  country.  You  have  now  a  law 
against  books.  It  may  be  you  will  make  a  law  against  poets  coming 
too?" 

When  the  western  nations  have  finished  making  the  world  safe 
for  democracy,  if  it  wouldn't  be  too  satirical  the  Orient  might  wage 
a  world  war  to  make  the  world  safe  for  Art. — jh.] 

Bury  bloody  Bodenheim 
Bury  bloody  Bodenheim 
Bury    bloody    Bodenheim 

And   Johnny   Rodker   too. 

—E.  J. 


To 

Do  you  know  anything  more  annoying  or 

Our 

more    ageing   than    to   have   your    friends 

discover  for  you  those  cherished  things  in 

Readers 

Art  which  you  should  have  discovered  for 

yiiurself? 

The  Little  Review  is  giving  its  readers  an 

opportunity  to  make  their  own  discoveries. 

There  is  no  magazine  in  America  which 

has  on  its  staff  such  an  important  line-up 

of  known  genius  and  the  "yet  unknowns". 

If    you    have    any    friends    who    are    not 

entrenched   in  mediocrity,   definitely  pro- 

tecting themselves  against  good  literature, 

tell  them  to  subscribe  to  The  Little  Review. 

Or  send  us  their  names  and  we  will  mail 

them  sample  copies. 

The  Little  Review  is  doing  some  intensive 

growing    this    autumn.      We    have    great 

plans  for  enlarging  our  format  and  giving 

you  the  best  creative  work  that  is  being 

produced    here    and    in    Europe,    written 

without  an  eye  on  the  established  pub- 

lisher, and  not  garbled  in  editorial  rooms 

to  meet  the  taste  of  the  average  mind. 

Send   us   the   names   of   any   people  you 

think  will  be  interested.     We  will  appre- 

ciate it. 

THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

MARGARET  C.  ANDERSON,  Editor 
EZRA     POUND,    London    Editor 

For  October: 

A  POEM,  by  T.  S    ELIOT 

PO-CHU-I,  versions  by  ARTHUR  D.  WALEY 
CANTLEMAN,  by  WYNDHAM   LEWIS 
IMAGINARY   LETTERS,  V.,  by  EZRA  POUND 
BARBARA     ROSCORLA'S     CHILD,     by     ARTHUR 

SYMONS 
AN   EDITORIAL  ON   SOLICITOUS  DOUBT 

For  November: 

HANRAHAN'S  OATH:  A  PLAY,  by  LADY  GREGORY 

Editorials  in  The  Little  Review  will  respect  no  vested 
interests,  no  publishers'  interests,  no  aged  magazines  and 
reviews,  nor  staffs  of  the  same. 

Yearly  Subscription,  U.  S.  A.,  $1.50;   Canada,  $1.65; 
Great  Britain  and  other  Countries,  7/- 


THE    LITTLE    REVIEW 

24  West  i6th  Street,  New  York  City 
Foreign   Office:  5   Holland  Place   Chambers,  London   W    8. 

Enclosed  find  $1.50  for  one  year's  subscription. 

beginning 

Name    

Addresi 


A  MA GAZINE  OF  THE  ART S 

MAKING   vo   COMPROMISE   WITH   TUV  PUBLIC  T 


OCTOBER,  1917 


THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF    PIANOS 


T  II  n 

IRISH    HOME-Rl'!!'        ] 

CONVENTION                       j 

K., 

Sir  Horace  Plunkett 

-iDorican  o|)iiiioii 

l.v 

John  Quinn 

lul    .It    the 

|f)lin  Oil 

1 

THl: 

MACMILLAN  COMPANY,  Piiblis 

New   York 

THE   LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO   WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


Margaret  Anderson,  Publisher 

OCTOBER,   1917 

Poems  of  Po  Chu-I,  translated  by  Arthur  Waley 

Cantleman's  Spring-Mate  Wyndham  Lewis 

Imaginary  Letters,  V.  Ezra  Pound 

Exasperations  Margaret  Anderson 

Improvisations  William  Carlos  Williams 

Editorial  on  Solicitous  Doubt  Ezra  Pound 

Style  and  American  Literature     Maxwell  Bodenheim 
Barbara  Roscorla's  Child  Arthur  Symons 

The  Reader  Critic 
Announcements 

Copyright,    1917,    by    Margaret    Anderson. 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 

EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,    New  York 

15  cents  a  copy  $1.50  a  year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  O.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


THE    GREENWICH    VILLAGE    THEATRE 

4th  Street  &  7th  Avenue 

THE 

OPENING 

BILL: 

A  Fantasy  in  two 
scenes,  Behind  the 
1 1 'at  tea  u  Picture,  by 
Robert  E.  Rogers, 
with  Incidental  music 
by  \V.  Franke  Har- 
linge. 

Efficiency  by  Ro- 
bert H.  Davis  and 
Perley  Poore  Shee- 
han. 

The  Festival  of 
Bacchus  by  Arthur 
Schnitzler.  translated 
by  Charles  Henrj' 
Meltzer. 

Subscription 

Books 

Now  Open 

Temporary  Office : 

Washington    Place 


OC  TO  B£.R 


By  THOMAS  H.  DICKINSON 
THE    INSURGENT    THEATRE 

All  about  the  artistic  and  practical 
sides  of  the  "little"  theatres,  open-air 
presentations,  performances  for  child- 
ren, "modern"  movements  and,  in 
general,  a  full  discussion  and  orienta- 
tion of  departures  from  tradition  of 
the  American  stage.  The  various  or- 
ganizations and  their  personnel  are 
catalogued  and  their  contributions 
evaluated.  Lists  of  plays  performed 
are   included. 

//  you  write,  act,  read  or  criticise,  you  need  this  book. 

$1.25  net 

B.W.HUEBSCH, Publisher,  225  Fifth  ave.,  New  York 


THE   LITTLE    REVIEW 

VOL.   IV.  OCTOBER    1917  No.  6. 


POEMS    OF    PO    CHU-I 

(772-846  a.  d.) 

Translated  by  Arthur  Waley 
The    Harper    of    Chao 

The  singers  have  hushed  their  notes  of  clear  song; 

The  red  sleeves  of  the  dancers  are  motionless. 

Hugging  his  lute,  the  old  harper  of  Chao 

Rocks  and  sways  as  he  touches  the  five  chords. 

The  loud  notes  swell  and  scatter  abroad: 

''Sa,  sa",  like  wind  blowing  the  rain. 

The  soft  notes  dying  almost  to  nothing: 

"Ch'ieh,  ch'ieh",  like  the  voice  of  ghosts  talking. 

Now  as  glad  as  the  magpie's  lucky  song: 

Again  bitter  as  the  gibbon's  ominous  cry. 

His  ten  fingers  have  no  fixed  note; 

Up  and  Aown.~"kunf,  "chih"  and  "yu''.* 

And  those  who  sit  and  listen  to  the  tune  he  plays 

Of  soul  and  body  lose  the  mastery. 

And  those  who  pass  that  way  as  he  plays  the  tune 

Suddenly  stop  and  cannot  raise  their  feet. 

Alas,  alas  that  the  ears  of  common  men 

Should  love  the  modern  and  not  love  the  old! 

Thus  it  is  that  the  harp  in  the  green  window 

Day  by  day  is  covered  deeper  with  dust. 


*  Notes  of  the  scale. 


The     Lit  tie     Review 


On    the    Way    to    Hangchow: 

Anchored    on    the    River    at    Night 

Little  sleeping  and  much  grieving,  the  traveller 
Rises  at  midnight  and  looks  back  toward  home. 
The  sands  are  bright  with  moonlight  that  joins  the  shores; 
The  sail  is  white  with  dew  that  has  covered  the  boat. 
Nearing  the  sea,  the  river  grows  broader  and  broader: 
Approaching  autumn,  the  nights  longer  and  longer 
Thirty  times  we  have  slept  amid  mists  and  waves, 
And  still  we  have  not  reached  Hangchow  I 

Immortality 

Boundless,  the  great  sea! 

Straight  down, — no  bottom:  sideways, — no  border. 

Of  cloudy  waves  and  misty  billows  down  in  the  uttermost  depths 

Men  have  fabled,  in  the  midst  there  stand  three  sacred  hills. 

On  the  hills  thick  growing, — herbs  that  banish  death. 

Wings  grow  on  those  who  eat  them  and  they  turn  into  heavenly 

hsien. 
The  Lord  of  Ch'in^  and  Wu  of  Han^  believed  in  these  stories; 
And  magic-workers  year  by  year  were  sent  to  gather  the  herbs. 
The  Blessed  Islands,  now  and  of  old,  what  but  an  empty  tale? 
The  misty  waters  spread  before  them   and  they  knew  not  where 

to  seek. 
Boundless,  the  great  sea! 
Dauntless,  the  mighty  wind! 

Their  eyes  search  but  r.annot  see  the  shores  of  the  Blessed  Islands. 
They  cannot  find  the  Blessed  Isles  and  yet  they  dare  not  go  back; 
Youths  and  maidens  that  began  the  quest  grew  gray  on  board 

the  boat. 
They  found  that  the  writings  of  Hsij  Fu  were  all  boasts  and  lies; 

^  The  'First  Emperor',  B.  C.  259 — 210. 
2  The  Emperor  Wu,  B.  C.  156—87- 


The    Little    Review 


To  the  Great  Unity  and  Lofty  Principle  they  had  raised  their  prayers 

in  vain. 
Do  you  not  see 
The  graves  on  the  top  of  Black  Horse  Hill  and  the  tombs  at 

Mo-ling?^ 
What  is  left  but  the  sighing  wind  blowing  in  the  tangled  grass? 
Yes,  and  what  is  more, 

The  Dark  and  Primal  Master  of  Sagas  in  his  five  thousand  words 
Never  spoke  of  herbs:  never  spoke  of  hsien, 
Nor  spoke  of  climbing  in  broad  daylight  up  to  the  blue  of  heaven. 


The    Two    Red    Towers 

{A  Satire  Against  Clericalism) 

The  Two  Red  Towers 

North  and  South  rise  facing  each  other. 

I  beg  to  ask,  to  whom  do  they  belong? 

To  the  two  princes  of  the  period  Cheng  YUan.^ 

The  two  princes  blew  on  their  flutes  and  drew  down  fairies  from 

the  sky; 
Who  carried  them  off  through  the  Five  Clouds,  soaring  away  to 

Heaven. 
Their  halls  and  houses,  that  they  could  not  take  with  them, 
Were  turned  into  Temples,  planted  in  the  Dust  of  the  World. 
In  the  tiring-rooms  and  dancers'  towers  all  is  silent  and  still ; 
Only  the  willows  like  dancers'  arms,  and  the  pond  like  a  mirror. 
.\t  twilight  when  the  flowers  are  falling,  when  things  are  sad  and 

hushed, 
One  does  not  hear  songs  and  flutes,  but  only  chimes  and  bells. 
The  Imperial  Patent  on  the  Temple  doors  is  written  in  letters  of  gold; 
For  nuns'  quarters  and  monks'  cells  ample  space  is  allowed. 


1  The  burial  places  of  these  two  Emperors. 
'  785—805  A.  D. 


The    Little    Review 


For  green  moss  and  bright  moonlight — plenty  of  room  provided; 
In  a  hovel  opposite  is  a  sick  man  who  has  hardly  room  to  lie  down! 
I  remember  once  when  at  P'ing-yang  they  were  building  a  great 

man's  house: 
How  it  swallowed  up  the  housing  space  of  thousands  of  ordinary 

men. 
The  Immortals^  are  leaving  us,  two  by  two,  and  their  houses  are 

turned  into  Temples; 
I  begin  to  fear  that  the  whole  world  will  become  a  vast  convent! 


OnBoardShip: 
Reading    Yuan    Chen's    Poems 

1  take  your  poems  in  my  hand  and  read  them  beside  the  candle; 
The  poems  are  finished:  the  candle  is  low:  dawn  not  yet  come. 
With  sore  eyes  by  the  guttering  candle  still  I  sit  in  the  dark, 
Listening  to  the  waves  that  strike  the  ship  driven  by  a  head-wind. 

Arriving    at    Hsun-Yang' 

A  bend  of  the  river  brings  into  view  two  triumphal  arches; 
This  is  the  gate  in  the  western  wall  of  the  suburbs  of  Hsun-yang. 
I  have  still  to  travel  in  my  solitary  boat  three  or  four  leagues — 
By  misty  waters  and  rainy  sands,  while  the  yellow  dusk  thickens. 

We  are  almost  come  to  Hsun-yang;  how  my  thoughts  are  stirred 
As  we  pass  to  the  south  of  Yu-liang's  Tower  and  the  east  of  P'en  port. 
The  forest  trees  are  leafless  and  withered, — after  the  mountain 

ram; 
The  roofs  of  the  houses  are  hidden  low  among  the  river  mists. 
The  horses,  fed  on  water-grass,  are  too  weak  to  carry  their  load; 


1  The  Empcror'.s  relatives. 

2  He  was  banished  to  this  place  in  815  with  the  rank  of  Sub-prefect. 


The    Little    Review 


The  cottage  walls  of  wattle  and  thatch  let  the  wind  blow  on  one's 
bed. 

In  the  distance  I  see  red-wheeled  coaches  driving  from  the  town- 
gate; 

They  have  taken  the  trouble,  these  civil  people  to  meet  their  new 
Prefect! 

After    Getting    Drunk,    Becoming 
Sober    in    the    Night 

Our  party  scattered  at  yellow  dusk  and  I  came  home  to  bed; 

I  woke  at  midnight  and  went  for  a  walk,  leaning  heavily  on  a  friend. 

As  I  lay  on  my  pillow  my  vinous  complexion,  soothed  by  sleep, 

grew  sober; 
In  front  of  the  tower  the  ocean  moon,  accompanying  the  tide,  had 

risen  . 
The  swallows,  about  to  return  to  the  beams,  went  back  to  roost 

again; 
The  candle  at  my  window,  just  going  out,  suddenly  revived  its 

light. 
All  the  time  till  dawn  came,  still  my  thoughts  were  muddled; 
And  in  my  ears  something  sounded  like  the  music  of  flutes  and 
strings. 

Last    Poem 

They  have  put  my  bed  beside  this  unpainted  screen; 

They  have  shifted  my  stove  in  front  of  the  blue  curtain. 

I  listen  to  my  grandchildren  reading  to  me  from  a  book; 

I  watch  the  servants  heating  up  the  soup. 

I  move  my  pencil,  answering  the  poems  of  friends; 

I  feel  in  my  pockets  and  pull  out  the  medicine  money. 

When  this  super intendance  of  trifling  affairs  is  done 

I  lie  back  on  my  pillows  and  sleep  with  my  face  to  the  South. 


The    Little    Review 


CANTELMAN'S     SPRING -MATE 

Wyndham  Lewis 

CANTELMAN  walked  in  the  strenuous  fields,  steam  rising  from 
them  as  though  from  an  exertion,  dissecting  the  daisies  specked 
in  the  small  wood,  the  primroses  on  the  banks,  the  marshy  lakes, 
and  all  God's  creatures.  The  heat  of  a  heavy  premature  Summer 
was  cooking  the  little  narrow  belt  of  earth-air,  causing  everything  in- 
nocently to  burst  its  skin,  bask  abjectly  and  profoundly.  Every- 
thing was  enchanted  with  itself  and  with  everything  else.  The 
horses  considered  the  mares  immensely  appetising  masses  of  quiv- 
ering shiny  flesh:  was  there  not  something  of  "je  ne  sais  quoi" 
about  a  mare,  that  no  other  beast's  better  half  possessed?  The 
birds  with  their  little  gnarled  feet,  and  beaks  made  for  fishing 
worms  out  of  the  mould,  or  the  river,  would  have  considered  Shel- 
ley's references  to  the  skylark — or  any  other  poet's  paeans  to 
their  species — as  lamentably  inadequate  to  describe  the  beauty  of 
birds!  The  female  bird,  for  her  particular  part,  reflected  that,  in 
spite  of  the  ineptitude  of  her  sweetheart's  latest  song,  which  he 
insisted  on  deafening  her  with,  never  seemed  to  tire  of,  and  was 
so  persuaded  that  she  liked  as  much  as  he  did  himself,  and  al- 
though outwardly  she  remained  strictly  critical  and  vicious:  that 
all  the  same  and  nevertheless,  chock,  chock,  peep,  peep,  he  was  a 
fluffy  object  from  which  certain  satisfaction  could  be  derived! 
And  both  the  male  and  the  female  reflected  together  as  they  stood 
a  foot  or  so  apart  looking  at  each  other  with  one  eye,  and  at  the 
landscajDe  with  the  other,  that  of  all  nourishment  the  red  earth- 
worm was  the  juiciest  and  sweetest!  The  sow,  as  sfie  watched  her 
hog,  with  his  splenetic  energy,  and  guttural  articulation,  a  sound 
between  content  and  complaint,  not  noticing  the  untidy  habits 
of  both  of  them,  gave  a  sharp  grunt  of  sex-hunger,  and  jerked  rapid- 
ly towards  him.  The  only  jarring  note  in  this  vast  mutual  ad- 
miration society  was  the  fact  that  many  of  its  members  showed 
their  fondness  for  their  neighbour  in  an  embarrassing  way:  that 
is  they  killed  and  ate  them.  But  the  weaker  were  so  used  to  dying 
violent  deaths  and  being  eaten  that  they  worried  very  little  about 
it.=The  West  was  gushing  up  a  harmless  volcano  of  fire,  ob- 
viously intended  as  an  immense  dreamy  nightcap. 

Cantleman  in  the  midst  of  his  cogitation  on  surrounding  life, 
surprised  his  faithless  and  unfriendly  brain  in  the  act  of  turning 


The     Little     Review 


over  an  object  which  humiliated  his  meditation.  He  found  that 
he  was  wondering  whether  at  his  return  through  the  village  ly- 
ing between  him  and  the  Camp,  he  would  see  the  girl  he  had  pas- 
sed there  three  hours  bfore.  At  that  time  he  had  not  begun  his 
philosophizing,  and  without  interference  from  conscience,  he  had 
noticed  the  redness  of  her  cheeks,  the  animal  fulness  ot  the  child- 
bearing  hips,  with  an  eye  as  innocent  as  the  bird  or  the  beast.  He 
laughed  without  shame  or  pleasure,  lit  his  pipe  and  turned  back 
towards  the  village.  =:  His  fieldboots  were  covered  with  dust :  his 
head  was  wet  with  perspiration  and  he  carried  his  cap,  in  un- 
military  fashion,  in  his  hand.  In  a  week  he  was  leaving  for  the 
Front,  for  the  first  time.  So  his  thoughts  and  sensations  all  had, 
as  a  philosophic  background,  the  prospect  of  death.  The  In- 
fantry, and  his  commission,  implied  death  or  mutilation  unless  he 
were  very  lucky.  He  had  not  a  high  opinion  of  his  luck.  He 
was  pretty  miserable  at  the  thought,  in  a  deliberate,  unemotional 
way.  But  as  he  realised  this  he  again  laughed,  a  similiar  sound 
to  that  that  the  girl  had  caused. =For  what  was  he  unhappy  about? 
He  wanted  to  remain  amongst  his  fellow  insects  and  beasts,  which 
were  so  beautiful,  did  he  then:  Well  well!  On  the  other  hand,  who 
was  it  that  told  him  to  do  anything  else?  After  all,  supposing 
the  values  they  attached  to  each  other  of  "beautiful",  "interesting", 
/'divine",  were  unjustified  in  many  cases  on  cooler  observation: — 
nevertheless  birds  were  more  beautiful  than  pigs:  and  if  pigs  were 
absurd  and  ugly,  rather  than  handsome,  and  possibly  chivalrous,  as 
they  imagined  themselves;  then  equally  the  odour  of  the  violet  was 
pleasant,  and  there  was  nothing  offensive  about  most  trees.  The 
newspapers  were  the  things  that  stank  most  on  earth,  and  human 
beings  anywhere  were  the  most  ugly  and  offensive  of  the  brutes 
because  of  the  confusion  caused  by  their  consciousness.  Had  it 
not  been  for  that  unmaterial  gift  that  some  bungling  or  wild 
hand  had  bestowed,  our  sisters  and  brothers  would  be  no  worse 
than  dogs  and  sheep.  That  they  could  not  reconcile  their  little 
meagre  stream  of  sublimity  with  the  needs  of  animal  life  should 
not  be  railed  at.  Well  then,  should  not  the  sad  human  amalgam, 
all  it  did,  all  it  willed,  all  it  demanded,  be  thrown  over,  for  the 
fake  and  confusion  that  it  was,  and  should  not  such  as  possessed 
a  greater  quantity  of  that  wine  of  reason,  retire,  metaphorically,  to 
the  wilderness,  and  sit  forever  in  a  formal  and  gentle  elation,  re- 
fusing to  be  disturbed ?=rShould  such  allow  himself  to  be  dis- 
turbed by  the  quarrels  of  jews,  the  desperate  perplexities,  resulting 
in  desperate  dice  throws,  of  politicians,  the  crack-jaw  and  un- 
reasoning tumult? 


lo  The    Little     Review 


On  the  other  hand,  Cantleman  had  a  little  more  human,  as 
well  as  a  little  more  divine,  than  those  usually  on  his  left  and 
right,  and  he  had  had,  not  so  long  ago,  conspicuous  hopes  that  such 
.1  conjuncture  might  produce  a  new  human  chemistry.  But  he 
must  repudiate  the  human  entirely,  if  that  were  to  be  brought  off. 
His  present  occupation,  the  trampling  boots  upon  his  feet,  the  belt 
that  crossed  his  back  and  breast,  was  his  sacrifice,  his  compliment 
to.  the  animal. 

He  then  began  dissecting  his  laugh,  comparing  it  to  the  pig's 
grunt  and  the  bird's  cough.  He  laughed  again  several  times  in 
order   to  listen  to   it.  ; 

At  the  village  he  met  the  girl,  this  time  with  a  second  girl. 
He  stared  at  her  "in  such  a  funny  way"  that  she  laughed.  He 
once  more  laughed,  the  same  sound  as  before,  and  bid  her  good 
evening.  She  immediately  became  civil.  Enquiries  about  the 
village,  and  the  best  way  back  to  camp  across  the  marsh,  put  in 
as  nimble  and  at  the  same  time  rustic  a  form  as  he  could  con- 
trive, lay  the  first  tentative  brick  of  what  might  become  the 
dwelling  of  a  friend,  a  sweetheart,  a  ghost,  anylJtiing  in  the  ab- 
surd world!  He  asked  her  to  come  and  show  him  a  short  cut 
she   had   indicated. 

"I  couldn't!  My  mother's  waiting  for  we/"  in  a  rush  of  ex- 
postulation and  semi-affected  alarm.  However,  she  concluded,  in 
a  minute  or  two,  that  she  could. 

He  wished  that  she  had  been  some  Anne  Garland,  the  lady 
whose  lips  were  always  flying  open  like  a  door  with  a  defective 
latch.  He  had  made  Anne's  acquaintance  under  distressing  circum- 
stances. 

On  his  arrival  at  Gideon  brook,  the  mighty  brand-new  camp 
on  the  edge  of  the  marsh,  he  found  that  his  colleague  in  charge  of 
the  advance  party  had  got  him  a  bed-space  in  a  room  with  four 
officers  of  another  regiment.  It  had  seemed  impossible  that  there 
were  any  duller  men  than  those  in  the  mess  of  his  particular  bat- 
talion: but  it  was  a  dullness  he  had  become  accustomed  to. 

He  saw  his  four  new  companions  with  a  sinking  of  the  heart,  and 
steady  gnawing  anger  at  such  concentration  of  furious  foolishness. 

Cantleman  did  not  know  their  names,  and  he  hated  them  in  or- 
der as  follows: 

A.  he  hated  because  he  found  him  a  sturdy,  shortish  young  man 
with  a  bull-like  stoop  and  energetic  rush  in  his  walk,  with  flat 
feet  spread  out  to  left  to  right,  and  slightly  bowed  legs.  This 
physique  was  enhanced  by  his  leggings:  and  not  improved,  though 
hidden,   in  his   slacks.     He  had   a   swarthy   and   vivacious   face, 


The    Little    Review  ii 


with  a  sort  of  Semitic  cunning  and  insolence  painted  on  it.  His 
cheeks  had  a  broad  carmine  flush  on  general  sallowness.  The  mind 
painted  on  this  face  for  the  perusal  of  whoever  had  the  art  of 
such  lettering,  was  as  vulgar  stuff,  in  Cantleman's  judgement,  as 
could  be  foimd.  To  see  this  face  constantly  was  like  hearing 
perpetually  a  cheap  and  foolish  music.  A.  was  an  officer,  but  na- 
turally not  a  gentleman. 

B.  he  disliked,  because,  being  lean  and  fresh-coloured,  with  glas- 
ses, he  stank,  to  Cantleman's  peculiar  nose,  of  Jack  London,  Sum- 
mer Numbers  of  magazines,  bad  flabby  Suburban  Tennis,  flabby 
clerkship  in  inert,  though  still  prosperous,  city  offices.  He  brought 
a  demoralizing  dullness  into  the  room  with  him,  with  a  brisk  punc- 
tiliousness, several  inches  higher  from  the  ground  than  A. 

C.  he  resented  for  the  sullen  stupidity  with  which  he  moved 
about,  the  fat  having  settled  at  the  bottom  of  his  cheeks,  and 
pulled  the  comers  of  his  mouth  down,  from  sheer  stagnation.  His 
accent  dragged  the  listener  through  the  larger  slums  of  Scotland, 
harrowing  him  with  the  bestial  cheerlessness  of  morose  religion  and 
poverty.  The  man  was  certainly,  from  every  point  of  view% 
social  perstige,  character,  intelligence,  far  less  suited  to  hold  a 
commission  than  most  of  the  privates  in  his  platoon. 

D.  reproduced  the  characteristics  of  the  other  three,  in  different 
qantities:  his  only  personal  contribution  being  a  senile  sing-song 
voice,  from  the  North,  and  a  blond  beam,  or  partially  toothless 
grin,   for  a  face. 

This  was  the  society  into  the  midst  of  whicn  Cantleman 
had  been  dropped  on  his  arrival  at  Gideon  brook,  ten  days  pre- 
vious to  this.  They  had  all  looked  up,  (for  it  was  always  all,  they 
having  the  inseparability  of  their  kind)  with  friendly  welcome,  as 
brother  officers  should.  He  avoided  their  eyes,  and  sat  amongst 
them  for  a  few  days,  reading  the  Trumpet-Major,  belonging  to  B. 
He  had  even  seemed  to  snatch  Hardy  away  from  B.  as  though 
B.  had  no  business  to  possess  such  books.  Then  they  avoided  his 
eye  as  though  an  animal  disguised  as  an  officer  and  gentleman 
like  themselves  had  got  into  their  room,  for  whom,  therein,  the 
Trumpet-Major  and  nothing  else  exercised  fascination.  He  came 
among  them  suddenly,  and  not  appearing  to  see  them,  settled 
down  into  a  morbid  intercourse  with  a  romantic  abstraction.  The 
Trumpet-Major,  it  is  true,  was  a  soldier,  that  is  why  he  was  there. 
But  he  was  an  imaginary  one,  and  imbedded  in  the  passionate 
affairs  of  the  village  of  a  mock-county,  and  distant  time.  Can- 
telman  bit  the  flesh  at  the  side  of  his  thumbs,  as  he  surveyed  the 
Yeomanry   Cavalry  revelling  in  the   absp^t  farmer's  house,   and 


12  The    Little    Review 


the  infantile  Famese  Hercules,  with  the  boastfulness  of  the  Red, 
explaining  to  his  military  companions  the  condescensions  of  his 
infatuation.  Anne  Garland  stood  in  the  moonlight,  and  Loveday 
hesitated  to  reveal  his  rival,  weighing  a  rough  chivalry  against 
self-interest. 

Cantelman  eventually  decamped  with  the  Trumpet-Major,  taking 
him  across  to  Havre,  and  B.  never  saw  his  book  again.  Cantel- 
man had  also  tried  to  take  a  book  away  from  A.  (a  book  in- 
compatible with  A's  vulgar  physique) .  But  A.  had  snatched  it  back, 
and  mounted  guard  surlily  and  cunningly  over  it. 

In  his  present  rustic  encounter,  then,  he  was  influenced  in 
his  feelings  towards  his  first  shepherdess  by  memories  of  Wessex 
heroines,  and  the  something  more  that  being  the  daughter  of 
a  landscape-painter  would  give.  Anne,  imbued  with  the  delicacy  of 
the  Mill,  filled  his  mind  to  the  injury  of  this  crude  marsh-plant.  But 
he  had  his  programme.  Since  he  was  forced  back,  by  his  logic  and 
body,  among  the  madness  of  natural  things,  he  would  live  up  to 
his  part. 

The  young  woman  had,  or  had  given  herself,  the  unlikely  name  of 
Stella.  In  the  narrow  road  where  they  got  away  from  the  village, 
Cantelman  put  his  arm  around  Stella's  waist  and  immediately 
experienced  all  the  sensations  that  he  had  been  divining  in  the 
creatures  around  him;  the  horse,  the  bird  and  the  pig.  The  way 
in  which  Stella's  hips  stood  out,  the  solid  blood-heated  expanse  on 
which  his  hand  lay,  had  the  amplitude  and  flatness  of  a  mare.  Per 
lips  had  at  once  no  practical  significance,  but  only  the  aesthetic 
blandishment  of  a  bull-like  flower.  With  the  gesture  of  a  fabulous 
Faust  he  drew  her  against  him,  and  kissed  her  with  a  crafty 
gentleness. 

Cantelman  turned  up  that  evening  in  his  quarters  in  a  state  of 
baffling  good-humour.  He  took  up  the  Trumpet-Major  and  was 
soon  surrounded  by  the  breathing  and  scratching  of  his  room- 
mates, reading  and  writing.  He  chuckled  somewhere  where  Hardy 
was  funny.  At  this  human  noise  the  others  fixed  their  eyes  on  him 
in  sour  alarm.  He  gave  another,  this  time  gratuitous,  chuckle. 
They  returned  with  disgust  at  his  habits,  his  peculiarity,  to  what 
he  considered  their  maid-servant's  fiction  and  correspondence.  Oh 
Christ,  what  abysms!  Oh  Christ,  what  abysms!  Cantelman  shook 
noisily  in  the  wicker  chair  like  a  dog  or  a  fly-blown  old  gentleman. 

Once  more  on  the  following  evening  he  was  out  in  the  fields, 
and  once  more  his  thoughts  were  engaged  in  recapitulations.= 
The  miraculous  camouflage  of  Nature  did  not  deceive  this  observer. 
He  saw  ever5nvhere  the  gun-pits  and  the  "nests  of  death".     Each 


The    Little    Review  13 


puff  of  green  leaves  he  knew  was  in  some  way  as  harmful  as  the 
burst  of  a  shell.  Decay  and  ruins,  it  is  true,  were  soon  covered  up, 
but  there  was  yet  that  parallel,  and  the  sight  of  things  smashed 
and  corruption.  In  the  factory  town  ten  miles  away  to  the  right, 
whose  smoke  could  be  seen,  life  was  just  as  dangerous  for  the  poor, 
and  as  uncomfortable,  as  for  the  soldier  in  his  trench.  The  hy- 
pocricy  of  Nature  and  the  hypocrisy  of  War  were  the  same.  The 
only  safety  in  life  was  for  the  man  with  the  soft  job.  But  that 
fellow  was  not  conforming  to  life's  conditions.  He  was  life's 
paid  man,  and  had  the  mark  of  the  sneak.  He  was  making  too 
much  of  life,  and  too  much  out  of  it.  He,  Cantelman,  did  not 
want  to  owe  anything  to  life,  or  enter  into  league  or  understanding 
with  her!  The  thing  was  either  to  go  out  of  existence:  or,  failing 
that,  remain  in  it  unreconciled,  indifferent  to  Nature's  threat,  con- 
sorting openly  with  her  enemies,  making  a  war  within  her  war 
upon  her  servants.  In  short,  the  spectacle  of  the  handsome  English 
spring  produced  nothing  but  ideas  of  defiance  in  Cantleman's 
mind. 

As  to  Stella,  she  was  a  sort  of  Whizbang.  With  a  treachery 
worthy  of  a  Hun,  Nature  tempted  him  towards  her.  He  was  drug- 
ged with  delicious  appetites.  Very  well!  He  would  hoist  the  im- 
seen  power  with  his  own  petard.  He  would  throw  back  Stella  where 
she  was  discharged  from  (if  it  were  allowable,  now,  to  change  her 
into  a  bomb)  first  having  relieved  himself  of  this  humiliating 
gnawing  and  yearning  in  his  blood. 

As  to  Stella,  considered  as  an  unconscious  agent,  all  women 
were  contaminated  with  Nature's  hostile  power  and  might  be 
treated  as  spies  or  enemies.  The  only  time  they  could  be  trusted, 
or  were  likely  to  stand  up  to  Nature  and  show  their  teeth,  was 
as  mothers.  So  he  approached  Stella  with  as  much  falsity  as  he 
could  master. 

At  their  third  meeting  he  brought  her  a  ring.  Her  melting  grati- 
tude was  immediately  ligotted  with  long  arms,  full  of  the  contra- 
dictoiy  and  offending  fire  of  the  spring.  On  the  warm  earth  con- 
sent flowed  up  into  her  body  from  all  the  veins  of  the  landscape. 
The  nightingale  sang  ceaselessly  in  the  small  wood  at  the  top  of  the 
field  where  they  lay.  He  grinned  up  towards  it,  and  once  more 
turned  to  the  devouring  of  his  mate.  He  felt  that  he  was  raiding 
the  bowels  of  Nature:  not  fecundating  the  Aspasias  of  our  flimsy 
flesh,  or  assuaging,  or  competing  with,  the  nightingale  Cantelman 
was  proud  that  he  could  remain  deliberate  and  aloof,  and  gaze 
bravely,  like  a  minute  insect,  up  at  the  immense  and  melancholy 
night,  with  all  its  mad  nightingales,  piously  folded  small  brown 


14  The     Little     Review 

wings  in  a  million  nests,  night-working  stars,  and  misty  useless 
watchmen.  They  got  up  at  last:  she  went  furtively  back  to  her 
home.  Cantelman  on  his  way  to  camp  had  a  smile  of  severe 
satisfaction  on  his  face.  It  did  not  occur  to  him  that  his  action 
might  be  supremely  unimportant  as  far  as  Stella  was  concerned.  He 
had  not  even  asked  himself  if,  had  he  not  been  there  that  night, 
someone  else  might  or  might  not  have  been  there  in  his  place. 
He  was  also  convinced  that  the  laurels  were  his,  and  that  Nature  had 
come  off  badly.  He  was  still  convinced  of  this  when  he  received 
six  weeks  afterwards,  in  France,  a  long  appeal  from  Stella,  telling 
him  that  she  was  going  to  have  a  child.  She  received  no  answer 
to  that  nor  any  subsequent  letter.  They  came  to  Cantelman 
with  great  regularity  in  the  trenches;  he  read  them  all  through  from 
beginning  to  end,  without  comment  of  any  sort.  And  when  he 
beat  a  German's  brains  out,  it  was  with  the  same  impartial  malign- 
ity that  he  had  displayed  in  the  English  night  with  his  Spring- 
mate.  Only  he  considered  there  too  that  he  was  in  some  way 
outwitting  Nature;  he  had  no  adequate  realization  of  the  extent 
to  which,  evidently,  the  death  of  a  Hun  was  to  the  advantage  of  the 
animal  world. 


IMAGINARY     LETTERS 

V 

(Walter  Villerant  to   Mrs.   Bland  Burn) 
Ezra  Pound 

Y   DEAR  LYDIA: 

Russians!    No.   William  is  matto  over  his  Russians.   They 


M 


are  all  in  the  beginning  of  Fumce  —  all  the  Russians.  Turgenev 
has  done  it:  a  vaporous,  circumambient  ideologue,  inefficient,  fun- 
damentally and  katachrestically  and  unendingly  futile  set  of  bar- 
barians. Old  Goff  says  of  savages:  "I  like  savages.  They  do  no- 
thing that  is  of  the  least  use,  they  do  nothing  the  least  intelligent, 
they  do  nothing  of  the  least  interest.  They  are  bored.  They  have 
ceremonies.  The  malice  of  boredom:  the  medicine  man  makes 
them  dance  in  a  ring  for  hours  in  order  to  dequst  their  stupidity, 
per  assagiarlo,  to  bask  in  the  spectacle  of  a  vacuity  worse  than 
his  own." 


The    Lit  tie    Review  15 

I  mistrust  this  liking  for  Russians;  having  passed  years  in  one 
barbarous  country  I  can  not  be  expected  to  take  interest  in  another. 
All  that  is  worth  anything  is  the  product  of  metropoles.  Swill  out 
these  nationalist  movements.  Ireland  is  a  suburb  of  Liverpool.  And 
Russia!  The  aged  Findell  comes  back  in  ecstacy,  saying  "It  is 
just  like  America."  That  also  bores  me.  They  say  Frankfort-am- 
Main  is  just  like  America. 

Paris  is  not  like  America.  London  is  not  like  America.  Venice 
is  not  like  America.  Perugia  is  not  like  America.  They  are  not 
the  least  like  each  other.  No  place  where  the  dew  of  civilization 
has  fallen  is  "just  like"  anywhere  else.  Verona  and  Pavia  are 
different.     Poictiers  is  different.     Aries  is  a  place  to  itself. 

Dostoevsky  takes  seven  chapters  to  finish  with  an  imbecile's  wor- 
ries about  a  boil  on  the  end  of  his  nose.  Dostoevsky  is  an  eminent 
writer.  Let  us  thank  the  gods  he  existed.  I  do  not  read  Dostoev- 
sky. Several  young  writers  have  impressed  me  as  men  of  genius,  by 
reason  of  tricks  and  qualities  borrowed  from  Dostoevsky.  At  length 
when  the  craze  is  over,  I  shall  have  to  read  Dostoevsky.  And  so 
on  ...  .  I  have  also  read  Samuel  Butler.  And  Poetry?  As 
the  eminently  cultured  female,  Elis  writes  me  that  her  little  cousin 
will  have  nothing  to  do  with  it.  Rubbish!  Her  little  cousin  will 
read  Li  Po,  and  listen  to  the  rondels  of  Froissart.  I  know,  for  I 
tried  her. 

Elis  has  imbibed  a  complete  catalogue,  with  dates,  names  of 
authors,  chief  works,  "influence"  of  A,  B,  C,  on  M,  N,  O,  etc., 
etc.,  with  biographies  of  the  writers,  and  "periods".  Buncomb! 
Her  cousin,  who  knows  "nothing  at  all",  is  ten  times  better  edu- 
cated. No?  She  "doesn't  like  poetry",  Anglice:  she  doesn't  like 
Swinburne.  It  is  not  the  least  the  same  thing.  And  she  is  worried 
by  most  of  Dowson,  etc. 

Elis  appeals  to  me  as  possessing  "manner"  or  "prestige",  i.  e. 
professorial  aspects,  to  coerce  the  rebellious  infant. 

She  says  I  used  to  read  Swinburne  "so  splendidly".  Damn  it 
all!  I  believe  this  to  be  true.  The  "first  fine",  etc.  "The  hounds 
of  swat  are  on  the  wobbles  wip  wop".  Ma';nificent  sound.  Now 
as  a  matter  of  fact  I  tried  to  read  A.  C.  S.  to  the  small  cousin 
and  broke  down  Isunentably.  The  constant  influx  of  "wrong  words" 
put  me  out  of  it  altogether. 

And  Browning  is  full  of  jejune  remarks  about  God.  And  only 
parts  of  Landor  are  left  us.  And  Elis  says  the  girl  will  be  no 
use  to  me  whatsoever.  (Neither  she  may,  perhaps.  But  who  is  any 
lose  to  me?  Hackett  I  see  once  a  month  in  a  state  of  exhaustion,  i.  e. 
H.  in  a  state  of  exhaustion).    He  makes  two  negative  but  intel- 


i6  The    Little    Review 


ligent  remarks,  and  departs  before  the  conversation  develops.  Your 
spouse  is  afar  from  us  both.    We  are  surrounded  by  live  stock. 

I  enjoy  certain  animal  contacts  ....  without  malice.  I  have 
a  "nice  disposition".  I  pat  them  like  so  many  retrievers  .  .  .  ehbene? 
I  live  as  a  man  among  herds  ....  for  which  I  have  a  considerate, 
or  at  least  considerable,  if  misplaced,  affection.  "Herds"  is  possibly 
a  misnomer.  A  litter  of  pups  that  amuses  me.  I  am  not  prey  to 
William's  hostilities  .  .  .  save  that  I  dislike  ill-natured  animals. 

As  for  poetry:  :  :  how  the  devil  can  anyone  like  it  .  .  .  given,  I 
mean,  the  sort  of  thing  usually  purveyed  under  that  label? 

The  girl  asked  me  the  only  sane  question  I  have  ever  hlad 
asked  me  about  it. 

''But  is  there  no  one  like  Bach?  No  one  where  one  can  get  all 
of  it?'' 

That  staves  in  my  stratified  culture. 

The  Odyssey?  But  she  does  not — naturally,  she  does  not  read 
greek.  She  is  "wholly  uneducated".  That  is  to  say  I  find  her 
reading  Voltaire  and  Henry  James  with  placidity. 

And  Dante?  But  she  does  not  read  italian.  Nor  latin.  And 
besides,  Dante!  One  needs  a  whole  apparatus  criticus  to  sift  out 
his  good  from  his  bad;  the  appalling  syntax  from  the  magnificence  of 
the  passion.  Miss  Mitford  said  "Dante  is  gothic."  Out  of  the 
mouths  of  prudes  and  imbeciles  1  Gothic,  involved,  and  magnificent, 
and  a  master  of  nearly  all  forms  of  expression.  And  what,  pray,  is 
one  to  reply  to  a  person  who  after  having  read  Maison  Telli^r, 
refuses  to  stand  "The  fifth  chariot  of  the  pole,  already  upturning, 
when  I  who  had  etc.,  .  .  .  turning  as  Pyramus  whom  when  the  mul- 
berry had  been  tasted  ....  not  otherwise  than  as  etc."  The 
quotation  is  inexact,  but  1  can  not  be  expected  to  carry  english  tran- 
slations of  Dante  about  with  me  in  a  suit  case.  Dante  is  a  sealed 
book  to  our  virgin,  and  likewise  Catullus,  and  Villon  is  difficult 
french  ....  and  Sappho  ....  perhaps  a  little  Swinbumian? 
Hie  mi  par  esse  ....  is  possibly  better  than  the  Aeolic  original; 
harder  in  outline.  (If  this  bores  you.  give  it  to  Elis).  Chaucer 
writes  in  a  forgotten  language.  One  must  read  earlier  authors  first 
if  one  is  to  run  through  him  with  ease  as  with  pleasure.  What 
the  devil  is  left  us?  What  argument  for  a  person  too  sincere  to 
give  way  to  the  current  mania  for  assenting  to  culture?  The 
fanaticism  of  certain  people  who  believe  they  ought  to  "read  poetry" 
and  "be  accjuainted  with"  art.  A  person,  I  mean,  who  has  taken 
naturally  to  good  prose;  who  is  so  little  concerned  with  appearing 
educated  that  she  does  not  know  whether  Shelley  is  a  dead  poet  or 
still  living,  ditto.  Keats.     It  is  qtute  oriental.     Ramdath  told  mc 


The    Little    Review  17 


a  tale  from  the  Mahabharata,  but  it  was  only  when  I  found  it  in 
the  Mahabarata  that  I  discovered  it  had  not  happened  to  Ram- 
dath's  grandpapa.  If  people  would  forget  a  bit  more,  we  might  have 
a  real  love  of  poetry.  Imagine  on  what  delightful  terms  the  living 
would  compete  with  their  forbears  if  the  doriphory  of  death  were 
once,  for  even  a  week  or  so,  removed  from  the  "brows"  or  "works" 
of  the  "standard"  authors.  No  more  Job  and  Stock's  "Works  of 
the  Poets",  series  including  Mrs.  Hemans,  Proctor  and  Cowper  7/6, 
5/,  2/6,  hymn-book  padded  leather  with  gilding,  real  cloth  with 
gilding,  plain  covers.  The  great  Victorian  age  has  done  even  better. 
Culture,  utility! !  I  found  in  lodgings  a  tin  biscuit-box,  an  adorn- 
ment. It  represensented  a  bundle  of  books,  of  equal  size,  bound 
in  leather,  a  series,  the  spiritual  legacy  of  an  era,  education,  popu- 
larity.   The  titles  of  the  tin  books  were  as  follows: 

History  of  England. 

Pilgrim's  Progress. 

Burns. 

Pickwick  Papers 

Robinson  Crusoe. 

Gulliver's  Travels. 

Self-Help. 

Shakespeare 

Is  it  any  wonder  we  have  Gosse  cautioning  us  against  De 
Maupassant's  account  of  Swinburne,  and  saying  that  De  M's  un- 
bridled fancy  gave  great  offence  when  it  reached  the  recluse  at 
Putney.  Or  dribbling,  i,  e.  Gosse  dribbling  along  about  "events 
at  the  Art  Club  which  were  widely  discussed  at  the  time"  (italics 
mine)  when  he  might  have  said  simply  "Algernon  got  drunk  and 
stove  in  all  the  hats  in  the  cloak-room". 

Yours, 
Walter  Villerant. 


i8  The    Little     Review 

EXASPERATIONS 

Margaret  Anderson 

CARL  VAN  VECHTEN  has  an  article  about  Mary  Garden  in 
The  Bellman  which  he  prefaces  with  the  aesthetic  discovery 
that  in  her  art  Mary  Garden  leaves  nothing  to  accident.  Oh  subtle 
critical  mind!  ....  Mr.  Van  Vechten  should  write  art  notes  for 
The  New  York  Times, — which  I  believe  he  has  done.  I  remember 
once,  in  a  discussion  on  music,  I  asked  him  furiously  whether  he 
knew  anything  about  the  subject,  only  to  learn  that  he  had  been  a 
Times  music  critic  for  years — which  is  quite  as  it  should  be. 

I  UNDERSTAND  that  The  Seven  Arts  is  about  to  suspend 
publication  because  of  the  withdrawal  of  its  chief  patron,  Mrs. 
Rankine,  on  account  of  an  irreconcilable  disagreement  between  her 
and  the  editorial  body  concerning  a  war  policy.  There  are  intelligent 
people,  I  hear,  who  are  prepared  to  defend  her  action.  But  there 
is  no  conceivably  intelligent  defense  for  such  an  action.  It  is  simply 
another  case  of  the  proverbial  and  astounding  American  "nerve". 
In  the  case  of  a  magazine  of  the  Arts  it  is  a  truly  collossal  nerve. 
How  dare  Mrs.  Rankine  or  any  other  patron  take  the  responsibility 
of  the  several  thousand  readers  who  subscribed  to  The  Seven  Arts 
because  they  wished  to  read  what  its  editors  had  to  say?  Whether 
they  agreed  or  not  with  what  was  said  has  nothing  to  do  with  it. 
It  is  even  conceivable  that  some  of  them  may  have  enjoyed  reading 
what  they  did  not  agree  with,  or  that  some  of  them  (ghastly  but  pos- 
sible) approved  of  the  Seven  Arts  attitude  toward  the  war.  Only 
one  thing  is  certain:  that  none  of  those  subscribers  read  the  maga- 
zine because  of  anything  Mrs.  Rankine  contributed  to  its  pages. 

But  a  certain  type  of  American  mind  is  capable  of  anything.  This 
moral  nation  is  now  facing  the  issue  of  prohibition.  If  the  prohibi- 
tionists are  successful  great  vineyards  in  California  will  be  burned. 
To  burn  a  vineyard! — is  it  conceivable?  A  vineyard  is  a  beautiful 
thing  .... 

PR  MONTHS,  everywhere  I  have  looked  for  life  I  have  found 
death — except  in  two  cases:   once  in  the  instance  of  death 
itself,  and  once  in  the  spectacle  of  an  old  woman. 

The  first  was  an  "absurd  and  unmerited  exile,"  impossible  to  bear; 
and  it  gave  me  forever,  though  I  could  not  be  there,  the  picture  of  a 
woman  with  a  high  thin  nose  lying  in  a  coffin, — part  of  that  beauty 
which  alone  is  indestructible.  The  second  was  Sarah  Bernhardt  in 
an  act  of  Camille, — a  thing  immortal  beyond  any  words  that  I 
can  find. 


T  he    Lit  tl  e    Review  19 

IMPROVISATIONS 

William  Carlos  Williams    - 


POLS  have  big  wombs.  For  the  rest? — ^here  is  pennyroyal  if  one 
knows  to  use  it.  But  time  is  only  another  liar,  so  go  along  the 
wall  a  little  further:  if  blackberries  prove  bitter  there'll  be  mush- 
rooms, fairy-ring  mushrooms,  in  the  grass,  sweetest  of  all  fungi. 

II 

For  what  it's  worth:  Jacob  Louslinger,  white  haired,  stinking, 
dirty  bearded,  cross  eyed,  stammer  tongued,  broken  voiced,  bent 
backed,  ball  kneed,  cave  bellied,  mucous  faced — deathling, —  found 
lying  in  the  weeds  "up  there  by  the  cemetery".  "Looks  to  me  as  if 
he'd  been  bumming  around  the  meadows  for  a  couple  of  weeks". 
Shoes  twisted  into  incredible  lilies:  out  at  toes,  heels,  tops,  sides, 
soles.  Meadow  flower!  ha,  mallow!  at  last  I  have  you.  (Rot 
dead  marigolds — an  acre  at  a  time!  Gold,  are  you?)  Ha,  clouds 
will  touch  world's  edge  and  the  great  pink  mallow  stand  singly  in 
the  wet,  topping  reeds  and — a  closet  full  of  clothes  and  good  ^oes 
and  my-thirty-year's-  master's-  daughter's  two  cows  for  me  to  care 
for  and  a  winter  room  with  a  fire  in  it — .  I  would  rather  feed 
pigs  in  Moonachie  and  chew  calamus  root  and  break  crab's  claws  at 
an  open  fire;  age's  lust  loose! 

Ill 

Talk  as  you  will,  say:  "No  woman  wants  to  bother  with  children 
in  this  country"; — speak  of  your  Amsterdam  and  the  whitest  aprons 
and  brightest  door-knobs  in  Christendom.  And  I'll  answer  you: 
"Gleaming  door-knobs  and  scrubbed  entries  have  heard  the  songs 
of  the  housemaids  at  sun-up  and — housemaids  are  wishes.  Whose? 
Ha!  the  dark  canals  are  whistling,  whistling  for  who  will  cross  to 
the  other  side.  If  I  remain  with  hands  in  pocket  leaning  upon  my 
lamp-post — ^why, — I  bring  curses  to  a  hag's  lips  and  her  daughter 
on  her  arm  knows  better  than  I  can  tell  you:  best  to  blush  and  out 
with  it  than  back  beaten  after. 


20  The    Little     Review 


EDITORIAL    ON    SOLICITOUS    DOUBT 
Ezra  Pound 


VARIOUS  people  have  expressed  certain  doubts  as  to  whether  .  .  . 
The  Little  Review  ....  etc 

Good  people,  be  at  rest:  the  price  of  The  Little  Review  will 
never  be  raised  for  present  subscribers  or  for  those  who  subscribe 
before  January  i,  19 18  .  After  that  we  can  make  no  promises.  The 
quality  will  not  decline;  if  we  give  "twice  as  much  of  it"  the  new 
readers  will  have  to  pay  more.  If  we  had  given  you  only  Mr.  Yeats's 
fourteen  poems  we  would  already  have  given  you  more  literature 
than  is  to  be  found  in  the  "four  big"  magazines  since  the  beginning 
of  our  present  volume. 

Next  month   you   will   have   a  whole   play   by   Lady   Gregory. 
Mr.  Lewis,  after  having  been  in  some  heavy  fighting  is  now  in  hospi- 
tal, and  that  leisure  has  made  sure  the  supply  of  his  prose  for  some 
time.     I  have  now  at  my  elbow  the  first  eighty-eight  pages  of  the 
best  book  Ford  Madox  Hueffer  has  written.    WTiy  "the  best  book"? 
Five  years  ago  Mr.  Hueffer  read  me  this  manuscript,  an  imfinished 
work     for     which     there     was     presumeably     "no     market".       1 
read  the  typescript  which  was  brought  me  last  evening;  so  familiar  ' 
is  the  text  that  I  can  scarcely  convince  myself  that  it  is  five  years  i 
since  I  heard  the  even  voice  of  the  author  pronouncing  it.    I  do  not  I 
think  my  memory  is  particularly  good,  I  think  there  must  be  some  f 
quality  in  a  man's  style  and  matter  if  it  is  to  stay  fresh  in  another  | 
man's  mind  for  so  long.     Mr.  Hueffer's  Women  and  Men  will  run 
in  The  Little  Review  from  January  1918  to  May  1919  inclusive,  un- 
less interfered  with  by  force  majeur.     Perhaps  it  is  not  his  best 
book. 

Lest  there  be  any  confusion  about  Olivers,  Madoxes,  Madox 
Browns,  Francis  Hueffers,  etc.  Ford  Madox  Hueffer  is  the  author 
of  various  novels,  and  of  The  Heart  0}  the  Country,  The  Soul  of 
London,  Ancient  Lights,  Collected  Poems,  of  On  Heaven,  the  first 
successful  long  poem  in  English  vers  libre,  after  Whitman.  This 
poem  appeared  in  Poetry  for  June  1914,  and  has  certainly  as 
much  claim  to  permanence  as,  say,  Meredith's  Love  in  the  Volley. 

Beside  his  own  achievement,  Mr.  Hueffer  has  done  one  definite 
service  to  English  letters.  This  service  is  unquestioned,  and  recogni- 
tion of  it  does  not  rest  upon  any  personal  liking  or  disliking  of 


The    Little    Review  21 


Ir.  Hueffer's  doctrines  of  writing.  In  1908  he  founded  The  English 
'.eview;  for  a  year  and  a  half  he  edited  that  magazine  and  during 
aat  time  he  printed  work  not  only  by  the  great  men  of  letters, 
jiatole  France,  Thomas  Hardy,  Swinburne,  Henry  James,  not  only 
y  men  of  public  reputation  like  Wells,  and  Conrad  and  Bennett,  but 
Iso  by  about  all  the  younger  men  who  have  since  made  good. 
'or  example  by  Lewis  (in  1909),  and  by  other  now  well-known 
oung  men  who  have  both  made  good  and  declined  since  that  date. 
lis  editorship  of  the  review  marks  a  very  definate  period;  at  the 
ad  of  it,  as  its  glory  was  literary,  not  commercial,  it  was  bought 
y  certain  jews,  who  thought  Mr.  Hueffer  a  damn  fool  (possibly 
ecause  of  his  devotion  to  literature),  and  who  gave  the  editor- 
[lip  into  other  hands.  Comparison  of  current  numbers  of  The 
English  Review  with  the  first  numbers  issued  from  84  Holland 
'ark  Avenue,  will  give  any  thinking  person  all  the  data  he  wants 
1  deciding  between  the  folly  of  Hueffer  and  the  folly  of  manufac- 
uring,  political  hebrews.  In  fact,  if  a  crime  agamst  literature 
ould  bring  any  shame  upon  that  class  of  person,  this  family  would 

0  into  penitence,  which  needless  to  say  they  will  not.  But  the 
areful  historian  of  literature  will  record  and  remember  their  shame. 
Tie  files  of  the  review  being  stored  in  the  British  Museum,  the 
ata  will  continue  available.    There  will  be  no  faking  the  records. 

The  Little  Review  is  now  the  first  effort  to  do  comparitively 
^hat  The  English  Review  did  during  its  first  year  and  a  half:  that 
;,  to  maintain  the  rights  and  position  of  literature,  I  do  not  say 

1  contempt  of  the  public,  but  in  spite  of  the  curious  system  of 
•ade  and  traders  which  has  grown  up  with  the  purpose  or  result  of 
iterposing  itself  between  literature  and  the  public. 

We  act  in  spite  of  the  public's  utter  impotence  to  get  good  liter- 
ture  for  itself,  and  in  despite  of  the  efforts  of  the  "trade"  to 
itiate  the  public  with  a  substitute,  to  still  their  appetite  for  liter- 
ture  by  providing  them,  at  a  cheaper  rate  and  more  conveniently, 
ith  a  swallowable  substitute. 

Whereanent  a  very  successful  journalist  has  said  to  me:     We, 

e.  we  journalists,  are  like  mediums.  People  go  to  a  spiritist 
§ance  and  hear  what  they  want  to  hear.     It  is  the  same  with 

leading  article:  we  write  so  that  the  reader  will  find  what  he 
'ants  to  find. 

That  is  the  root  of  the  matter;  there  is  good  journalism  and 
ad  journalism,  and  journalism  that  "looks"  like  "literature"  and 
terature  etc  ...  . 

But  the  root  of  the  difference  is  that  in  journalism  the  reader 
nds  what  he  is  looking  for,  what  he,  the  reader  wants;  whereas 


22  The     Little     Review 


in  literature  he  must  find  at  least  a  part  of  what  the  author  ii 
tended. 

That  is  why  "the  first  impression  of  a  work  of  genius"  is  "near 
always  disagreeable",  at  least  to  the  "average  man".  The  publ 
loathe  the  violence  done  to  their  self-conceit  whenever  an  autht 
conveys  to  them  an  idea  that  is  his,  not  their  own. 

This  difference  is  lasting  and  profound.  Even  in  the  vaguest  < 
poetry,  or  the  vaguest  music,  where  in  a  sense  the  receiver  ma 
or  must,  make  half  the  beauty  he  is  to  receive,  there  is  always  som 
thing  of  the  author  or  composer  which  must  be  transmitted. 

In  journalism,  or  the  ''bad  art"  which  is  but  journalism  thin, 
disguised,  there  is  no  such  strain  on  the  public. 

I  am  now  at  the  end  of  my  space.  Of  Remy  de  Gourmont 
feeling  toward  such  a  magazine  as  we  are  now  making  I  will  wri 
in  the  December  number. 


STYLE    AND   AMERICAN    LITERATURE 

Maxwell  Bodenheim 

AMERICAN  literature  is  divided  into  three  plaintive  continent: 
clear  cold  psychological  data;   sentimental  unbeautiful  lyinj 
and  social  propaganda.     The  first  is  a  photograph;  the  second, 
pretty  vase;  and  the  third,  a  decorated  sledge-hammer. 

The  American  Writer  earnestly  strives  to  accomplish  something 
he  starts  out  with  a  fixed  and  lofty  objective  which  ranges  fro; 
a  "portrayal  of  the  soul  of  the  masses"  and  an  exposure  of  the  ii 
iquities  of  the  present  social  system,  to  "an  unfolding  of  the  poeti 
that  lies  in  simple  people".  He  seizes  upon  ideas  that  have  bee 
current  coin  in  Europe  for  the  past  century,  writes  them  muo 
worse  than  they  were  originally  written,  and  is  hailed  as  a  geniu 
His  characters  are  marvels  of  realism — stop  any  milkman  on  tl: 
corner  and  he  will  talk  exactly  as  Dreiser's  Witla  talks,  and  ai 
just  as  ordinary  human  beings  in  the  "Arcadia  Residence  Hotel"  ( 
Winklehofer's  Alley  would  act.  He  writes  on  the  theory  that  hi 
man  beings  lack  eyes  and  cannot  see  the  conditions  aboi 
thm,  but  must  be  carefully  told  in  lengths  of  four  hundred  page 
that  a  grafting  politician  is  looting  a  city,  that  a  man  can  immers 
himself  in  moneymaking  and  lose  his  soul,  that  working-people  ai 
unjustly  treated,  that  women  are  asserting  their  economic  inde 
pendence,  and  that  society  people  drink  and  have  gossamer-moralj 


The    Little    Review  23 


I  he  is  striving  to  educate  people  who  are  inclined  to  argue  pro 
id  con  about  these  subtle  matters,  he  could  become  a  far  more 
fective  elementary  teacher  by  compiling  with  his  fellow-writers 
1  encyclopedia  which  could  be  printed  in  serizd  form,  or  by  haying 
is  work  made  into  text  books  for  schools  and  colleges.  Since 
s  aim  is  really  the  spreading  of  information  about  human  beings, 
iscriptive  and  phsycological,  his  prose  style  is  always  simple,  strong 
id  clear,  as  the  phrase  goes,  and  he  leaves  imagination  and 
jautiful  word-mosaics  to  weak-kneed  poets,  who  believe  in  mak- 
g  lyrical,  elaborate  lies  about  human  beings  and  life  in  a  des- 
jrate  effort  to  escape  the  simple,  strong  and  clear  nightmares  of 
mditions  and  sights  about  them.  But  what  am  I  saying?  Modem 
merican  poets  have  also  become  realistic  in  a  different  way.  It 
is  become  a  rigid  shiboleth  among  American  poets  of  the  present 
ly,  that  writing  about  a  rose  or  a  sunset  inevitably  proves  that  a 
an  is  a  minor  poet,  and  that  steam-cranes,  shoe-string  peddlars, 
rm-hands,  the  Panama  Canal,  ice-wagon  drivers  and  machinists 
e  the  only  fit  subjects  for  a  spirited  poet.  And  so  the  most  sin- 
re  of  the  present  landslide  of  American  poets  write  about  these 
ibjects  in  a  bold  and  true  manner,  providing  a  sort  of  unadorned 
ndergarten  which  your  soul  is  supposed  to  attend.  And  the 
ast  sincere  among  them  sing  of  realistic  sights,  but  seem  a  little 
hamed  of  their  content,  hiding  it  with  picture-puzzle  styles, 
hich  you  piece  together  only  to  discover  that  they  lead  to  very 
mple  meanings. 

Then  there  is  another  class  of  contemporary  American  poets, 
10  strive  hard  to  achieve  subtle  meanings,  not  realizing  that  only 
erary  style  is  subtle,  and  that  meanings  are  all  on  about  the 
me  intangible  level.  These  poets  write  poems  that  seem  exper- 
sents  in  differential  calculus,  until  you  suddenly  discover  that  they 
e  in  reality  many  simple  concepts  mixed  in  a  temporarily  baf- 
ng  fashion.  In  their  plaintive  search  for  originality  ol  thought 
d  emotion  American  writers  achieve  only  twisted  echoes  of  old- 
)rl(f  literature,  for  the  simple  reason  that  outside  of  scientific 
search  and  pure  philosophy  ideas  are  eunuchs  drained  by  centuries, 
d  dressed  in  variations  of  old  costumes.  Any  modem  writer  with 
little  research  can  discover  that  some  old  Hindoo  or  Chinaman 
European  said  exactly  what  he  is  saying,  and  in  a  far  more 
laginative  and  beautiful  way.  But  literary  style  alone  remains 
comparatively  untouched  region,  because  the  great  majority  of 
"iters,  since  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  era,  have  always  been 
itched  by  some  great  buming  message  which  they  fancied  the 
)rld  needed  or  by  some  new  situation  in  which  human  beings  would 


24  The     Little     Review 


act  differently  than  they  ever  before  acted,  or  by  some  importa 
moral  that  required  hundreds  of  pages  for  illustration.  Wh< 
they  abandoned  these  important  kingships  it  was  cither  to  lo 
themselves  in  aimless  tears,  to  become  vaguely  exuberant,  or 
shrewdly  analyze  the  mob-desires  of  their  days  and  settle  down 
careful  entertaining.  In  all  of  these  aims,  literary  style  becar 
chief-cook-and-bottle-washer — an  obedient  servant,  who  was  the 
oughly  whipped  if  he  ever  became  rebellious,  and  achieved  momer 
of  sheer  word-beauty,  which  failed  to  illuminate  the  aim  of  t 
writer,  or  which  momentarily  crystalized  the  writer's  formless  rha 
sodies. 

Therefore  absolutely  new  and  beautiful  word-designs  are  possib 
since  words  alone,  unconnected  with  great  messages  or  sentimem 
self-portrayals,  have  been  practically  ignored  by  writers  of  t 
Christian  Era. 

When  American  writers  become  thoroughly  decandent,  and  a 
not  ashamed  to  frolic  ardently  with  words,  writing  in  a  passions 
surge  in  which  imagination  becomes  a  tipsy  priest,  marrying  wor 
and  meaning,  and  waltzing  arm  in  arm  down  the  road  with  the 
beauty  in  j^erican  literature  will  have  its  inception.  One  cri 
claims  that  this  situation  is  impossible,  because  of  the  complace 
democracy  of  this  country,  in  which  every  country  bumpkin  a 
rich  man  with  a  large  library  considers  himself  an  infallible  juc 
of  literary  values,  among  other  questions  of  art.  Because  of  tl 
he  believes  that  only  those  writers  who  deal  in  elementary  soc 
instruction  or  sentimental  commonplaces,  can  secure  a  hearing.  B 
even  if  a  small  aristocracy  were  in  control  of  the  literary  situati 
here,  beautiful  books  would  have  to  be  distributed  free  of  chai 
and  would  gain  very  little  in  circulation,  because  the  average  Am< 
ican  is  an  unmellowed  self-confident  nondescript  who  considers  c 
ture  to  be  for  sale  at  bargain-prices.  Each  European  country  t 
had  centuries  in  which  to  condense  into  that  quiet  sophisticati 
which  demands  in  fiction  and  poetry  other  intangible  food  than  ca 
nomic  sermons  or  descriptions  of  the  surface  facts  of  its  da 
life,  or  sentimental  ecstasies,  while  the  American  is  still  a  lit 
growing  boy,  interested  only  in  literary  marble-games.  The  Am« 
ican  political  situation  has  nothing  to  do  with  this — if  we  changed 
a  kingdom  or  an  economic  Utopia  tomorrow  the  American  ci 
zen  would  still  purchase  tons  of  Governeur  Morris  and  Edna  Ft 
ber,  and  would  still  wistfully  and  wearily  try  to  wade  through  < 
casional  volumes  from  writers  who  have  been  recommended  to  h 
as  "highbrows". 


The    Little    Review 


25 


:ARBARA    ROSCORLA'S    CHILD 

A    Play    in    One    Act 

Arthur  Symons 

^HARACTERS: 

ETER  ROSCORLA,  aged  40 

R.  TREVITHICK 

STER  AGATHA,  a  Nurse 

SENATH,  an  old  woman  who  has  been  Peter  Roscorla's  nurse. 

The  action  takes  place  in  the  dining-hall  of  Roscorla 
Manor,  near  the  sea-coast  0}  Cornwall.  The  hall  is 
lofty,  panelled  with  oak,  jurnished  squarely  with  old 
oak  furniture.  There  is  an  open  hearth,  with  oak 
benches,  on  the  right;  beyond  the  fireplace  is  a  door, 
leading  into  the  house.  In  the  centre  of  the  hall  is  a 
long  table,  the  end  of  which  faces  the  audience.  An 
oak  arm-chair  stands  at  the  head,  plain  oak  chairs  at 
the  sides.  At  the  back,  to  the  left  of  the  table,  is  a 
door  leading  into  a  bedroom.  On  the  left  is  a  panelled 
screen  which  reaches  two-thirds  of  the  way  to  the  ceil- 
ing and  forms  the  whole  of  the  wall.  A  door  in  the 
centre  of  it  leads  to  the  entrance-hall. 

It  is  twilight  in  autumn.  During  the  whole  of  the 
action  BARBARA  ROSCORLA  is  lying  in  bed,  in  the 
inner  room.  With  her,  during  the  first  part  of  the  play, 
is  SISTER  KATHERINE,  a  nurse. 

ASENATH  and  SISTER  AGATHA  are  seated  by 
the  fire;  the  old  woman  drowses. 

The  wind  is  heard  as  the  curtain  rises. 

{with  a  start)  Asenath,  Asenath,  is  ihat  only  the  wind? 

{rousing  herself)  Eh? 

Is  that  the  wind? 

It  is  the  wind  from  the  sea.    It  blew  all  night.    You 

c^  hear  the  sea  out  beyond;  sometimes  you  can  hear 


26 


The    Little     Review 


it  louder  than  the  wind.     There's  always  been  wu 

at  sea  when   the   Roscorlas  were  bom;    they  brii 

trouble. 
SISTER  A.:  The   wind    frightens   me     I   have   never  been   qui 

myself  since  I  came  here. 
ASENATH:    Yes,  yes,  the  Roscorlas  come  with  the  wind;   th' 

bring  trouble. 
SISTER  A.:   (nodding  her  head  towards  the  closed  door)    Do  y' 

think  she  is  going  to  die? 
ASENATH:    It  isn't  death  I'm  fearing;  it's  being  bom. 
SISTER  A.:  Is  that  what  she  is  afraid  of? 
ASENATH:    It's  a  poor  gift  being  bom;  if  they  that  come  cou 

think  twice,  not  many  of  them  would  take  it. 
SISTER  A.:   Is  that  what  she  is  afraid  of?    I  have  never  seen  a! 

woman  who  seemed  to  dread  so  what  was  going 

happen.     She  lies  there  all  the  time  as  if  she  we 

seeing  a  ghost. 
ASENATH:    The  wives  of  all  the  Roscorlas  feared  what  they  we 

going  to  bring  into  the  world.     Peter  Roscorla's  w 

is  only  like  all  the  others. 
SISTER  A.:  I  have  never  seen  any  woman  who  was  so  afraid 

being  a  mother. 
ASENATH:    Any  woman  is  wise  to  fear  it;  there's  little  joy  ai 

much  care  for  any  mother;  but  it's  a  bitter  moth< 

hood  here  in  this  house.     She  does  right  to  fear  it. 
SISTER  A.:   She  is  such  a  little  thing,  and  so  young,  and  sometin* 

she  trembles  all  over,  so  that  the  bed  quivers. 
ASENATH:    She  is  thinking  on  that  that's  to  be.     Did  she  s- 

nothing  when  you  were  with  her? 
SISTER  A.:  She  said  nothing;  she  lay  there  with  her  long  black  hi 

all  over  the  pillow;  her  eyes  were  wide  open,  stari 

straight  in  front  of  her;  I  think  she  was  listening 

the  wind. 
ASENATH:  The  last  that  was  born  in  this  house  was  Grega 

Roscorla,  Peter  Roscorla's  brother;  there  was  an  c 

wind  when  he  was  born,  and  the  sea  came  up  the  v 

lagc  street  as  far  as  the  market-cross. 
SISTER  A.:   I  have  never  seen  Gregory  Roscorla-  does  he  not  cod 

to  this  house? 
ASENATH:   Not  for  these  fifteen  years.    He  was  the  best  of  thei 

Gregory;  a  fine  lad,  a  wild  lad;  but  he  was  his  fathei 

child,  his  father  loved  him  the  best.     Tis  his  pla 

here,  by  rights  of  love*  but  it's  Peter's  by  rights 


The    Little    Review 


27 


law.  Peter's  the  elder,  and  his  father  hated  him  for 
that,  and  now  he  hates  his  brother  that's  younger, 
and  they  haven't  spoken  a  word  for  these  fifteen 
years,  and  Gregory  hasn't  set  a  foot  inside  the  house. 
Do  they  hate  one  another  so  much? 
(leaning  forward,  speaking  low).  Shall  I  tell  you  a 
thing?  Why  do  you  think  Peter  Roscorla  is  so  hungry 
for  the  child  to  come  that's  coming,  and  why  has  he 
been  wild  for  joy  ever  since  he  had  the  hope  of  him, 
and  why  does  he  fear  every  minute  of  the  day  that 
his  wife  isn't  cared  for  as  she  should  be?  Is  it  love 
for  his  wife,  do  you  think?  Is  it  just  and  only  be- 
cause he  wants  a  son  of  his  own?  O,  he  loves  his 
wife,  and  he's  hungering  for  a  son  of  his  own;  but 
it's  to  spite  his  brother  as  well,  it's  for  fear  his  brother 
should  come  to  take  his  place  here  after  he's  dead; 
it's  because  his  brother  shan't  inherit  Roscorla. 
Has  his  brother  ever  done  him  any  harm? 
Gregory  never  did  any  man  harm;  but  the  Roscorla 
blood's  in  Peter.  Do  you  know  what  they  say  in 
these  parts?  "To  hate  like  a  Roscorla."  Peter  will 
have  an  evil  child. 

And  she,  why  is  it  she  is  so  afraid  of  being  a  mother? 
(as  before,  leaning  forward  and  speaking  low).     Do 
you  know  how  Peter  Roscorla  that  was,  died?    No  one 
knows  how  he  died;  his  sons  don't  know  how  he  died; 
/  tended  him,  weeks  and  weeks,  and  he  cried  on  God 
and  the  saints  when  he  saw  hell-fire  coming  near  him; 
there  was  the  smoke  of  it  in  his  eyes,  and  he  fell  a- 
whimpering  at  the  last,  and  he  cursed  the  father  that 
had  begotten  him.    The  child  that's  going  to  be  born 
will  curse  his  father. 
Do  you  mean  that  they  are  all — ? 
An  evil  race,  bad  sons,  and  bad  fathers;  evil  in  the 
blood.    They  come  and  they  go  with  the  wind,  and  it's 
the  birth  that's  the  greater  evil. 
And  she,  does  she  know? 
(keenly)  Ay,  she  knows  now. 
Didn't  she  know  when  she  married  him? 
What  does  a  young  girl  know?     A  little  and  sweet 
thing,  like  a  young  child,  that  I  could  take  in  my 
arms.    But  she  knows  now,  (meaningly). 
She  should  never  have  known. 


28 


The    Lit  tie    Review 


ASENATH:  (fiercely)  It  was  right  for  her  to  know;  what  I  to 
her  I  told  her  for  her  good. 

SISTER  A.:  (rising,  in  agitation).  You?  Do  you  mean  that  yt 
told  her? 

(The  door  at  the  side  opens  and  PETER  RO 
CORLA  enters.  He  is  in  riding  gaiters,  spotted  wi 
mud;  he  carries  a  whip  which  he  lays  down  gently  < 
a  table  near  the  door.  He  moves  with  clumsy  cat 
glancing  at  the  bedroom  door,  as  if  afraid  of  distur 
ing  his  wife. 

ROSCORLA:  (going  over  to  SISTER  AGATHA  and  speakh 
rapidly  and  harshly).  Why  are  you  not  with  he 
Has  the  doctor  called? 

SISTER  A.:  (standing  stiffly).  Sister  Katherine  is  taking  t 
turn  to  watch  beside  her;  she  was  asleep  when  I  1« 
her.    The  doctor  has  not  called. 

ROSCORLA:  (taking  out  his  watch  and  putting  it  back  wit  ho 
looking  at  it).  I  went  for  him,  but  he  wasn't  the 
When  do  you  think  he  will  come?  (Takes  out  wat 
again  and  looks  at  it).  You  say  she's  asleep.  H 
she  been  quite  quiet?  said  nothing?  not  wanted  an 
thing? 

SISTER  A.:  She  cried  a  little,  but  very  quietly.  She  has  sa 
nothing. 

ROSCORLA:  (makes  a  few  steps,  then  turns — anxiously).  Wh 
do  you  think  he  will  come? 

SISTER  A.:  The  doctor  promised  to  be  here  soon  after  five. 

ROSCORLA:  (looking  at  his  watch  and  speaking  slowly).  Fi 
minutes  to  five.  (He  controls  himself  with  an  effor 
(appealingly)  I  suppose  I  mayn't  go  in? 

(SISTER  AGATHA  shakes  her  head  firmly,  s 
sits  down  in  her  former  seat,  and  turns  to  the  fi: 
ROSCORLA  moves  away  and  seats  himself  heav 
in  the  oak  armchair  at  the  upper  end  of  the  long  tab 
ASENATH  has  not  taken  her  eyes  off  his  face 
looks  at  her  abruptly). 
What  are  you  staring  at  me  for,  like  an  old  rave 

ASENATH:  Mayn't  old  Asenath  look  at  you,  Master  Peter?  I 
three  generations  of  the  Roscorlas  that  she's  se 
born.  There  was  Peter  Roscorla.  your  father,  th( 
was  you.  Master  Peter,  there  was  Master  Gregory- 


i 


The    Little    Review  29 

iOSCORLA:  (his  face  convulsed  with  rage)  Gregory! 

(He  is  about  to  bring  down  his  fist  on  the  table 
when  he  stops,  glancing  aside  at  the  closed  door. 
ASENATH  gets  up  and  comes  over  to  him  slowly )- 

^SENATH:  (shaking  her  head).  No  birth  here  comes  to  good. 
There's  a  wind  at  sea.  Master  Peter,  there's  a  wind 
coming  in  from  the  sea; the  wind's  bringing  trouble,  it's 
bringing  trouble  to  the  Roscorlas;  mark  my  words,  it's 
an  evil  night,  Master  Peter,  it's  an  evil  night  to  be 
born  on. 

lOSCORLA:  (angrily,  looking  up  at  her  with  an  ugly  sneer) 
You're  the  witch  on  the  hearth,  Asenath;  you  always 
bode  ill-luck.  But  you're  wrong;  it's  an  ill  wind, 
Asenath,  but  it's  bringing  good  luck  to  me. 

kSENATH.:  (shaking  her  head).  No  birth  here  comes  to  good. 
Master  Peter.  Do  you  know  what  you're  going  to 
give  to  the  child  that's  to  be  bom? 

(He  stares  at  her  with  a  puzzled  look). 
The  legacy  of  the  Roscorlas. 

(As  she  speaks  the  door  at  the  side  opens  and  DR. 
TREVITHJCK  enters.  He  comes  up  to  the  table. 
ROSCORLA  rises  eagerly). 

LOSCORLA:  I  am  so  glad  you  have  come.    And  you  will  stay? 

)R.  T.:  I  have  to  see  an  old  man  in  the  village.    But  I  can  at- 

tend to  that  later.    There  is  no  change,  Sister  Agatha? 

ISTER  A.:  (rising  and  coming  forward)  There  is  no  change,  doc- 
tor. She  was  asleep  a  little  while  ago.  Shall  I  see 
if  she  is  awake? 

'R.  T. :  If  you  please. 

(SISTER  AGATHA  opens  the  bedroom  door  quiet- 
ly, and  goes  in.  Part  of  the  bed  is  seen  as  she  opens 
the  door). 

(The  Doctor  turns  to  ROSCORLA,  looking  at  him 
keenly). 
Have  you  done  exactly  as  I  told  you? 

OSCORLA:  (meekly)  Yes,  doctor. 

•R.  T.:  You  have  left  her  quite  alone;  not  disturbed  her  in 

way?  not  let  her  know  that  you  have  any  anxiety? 

OSCORLA:  I  have  left  her  quite  alone. 

(SISTER  AGATHA  opens  the  bedroom  door,  and 
beckons  to  the  doctor,  who  goes  in.  The  stage  has 
gradually  darkened:   ASENATH  gets  up  and  lights 


.^0 


The    Little    Review 


several  candles,  which  give  a  dim  light. 

ROSCORLA   walks  up  and  down  uneasily;   sue 
denly  he  stops  in  jront  oj  ASENATU,  who  is  in  th 
act  oj  lighting  a  candle). 
What  do  you  mean  by  what  you  said  just  now? 
(hypocritically)  What  was  it  I  was  saying  just  nov 
Master  Peter? 

(She  goes  back  to  the  fireside.  He  jollows  her). 
The  legacy  of  the  Roscorlas.  What  did  you  mean 
It  was  only  a  word  that  I  said,  Master,  and  there  W£ 
no  great  meaning  in  it.  Birth  and  death  I've  seen  tt 
coming  and  going  of  them  for  three  generation 
(Looking  up  at  him  and  putting  her  hand  on  k 
sleeve).  Are  you  not  fearing  this  birth  that's  goir 
to  be? 

ROSCORLA:  (excitedly)  Asenath,  when  I  come  in  here  holding  re 
son  in  my  arms- 


ASENATH: 


ROSCX)RLA 
ASENATH: 


ASENATH: 
ROSCORLA: 

ASENATH: 


ROSCORLA 


ASENATH: 


ASENATH: 

ROSCORLA 
DR.  T: 


ROSCORLA 
DR.  T.: 


Your  son.  Master  Peter? 

It  must  be  a  son.    Hasn't  the  first-born  here  alwa? 

been  a  son,  Asenath? 

Very  true,  Master;  the  first-bom  of  the  Roscorlas  hj 

always  been  a  son;  yes,  it'll  be  a  son,  Master  Pete 

and  the  blood  of  the  Roscorlas  will  be  in  him  .  . 

(triumphantly)  Didn't  I  tell  you?    The  legacy  of  tl 

Roscorlas!     Is  that  what  you  meant?    It's  old  bloo 

good  Cornish  blood,  the  blood  of  gentlemen. 

Ay,  ay,  old  and  gentle;  do  you  know  what  goes  to  tli 

seasoning  of  old  blood  among  gentle- folk? 

(The  bedroom  door  opens,  and  the  doctor  comi 
out  with  a  very  anxious  look  on  his  face.  He  loot 
scrutinisingly  at  ROSCORLA  before  speaking  to  hit 
ASENATH  looks  suspiciously  at  the  doctor,  and  mu 
ters,  shaking  her  head). 

It's  not  the  doctor  that's  wanted,  but  the  power 
God! 

(ASENATH  goes  out  by  the  door  on  the  right). 
Well,  doctor? 
(A  pause). 

(sitting  down  at  the  side  of  the  table  and  leaning  h 
arms  upon  it)  I  must  not  hide  from  you  that  the  ca 
is  grave. 

She  is  worse  1     She  is  not  dying? 
She  is  not  dying.    But  she  is  not  out  of  danger. 


The    Little    Review 


31 


lOSCORLA; 
JR.  T.: 


lOSCORLA: 
)R.  T,: 

lOSCORLA: 
)R.  T.: 


lOSCORLA: 
)R  .T.: 

LOSCORLA: 
)R.  T.: 


OSCORLA 
R.  T.: 


OSCORLA 
R.  T.: 

OSCORLA 


R.  T.: 
OSCORLA 


Only — you  are  going  to  save  her! 
I  hope  so,  I  think  so.    But,  something  may  have  to  be 
done,  as  I  feared.    There  are  times  when  it  is  doubt- 
ful if  we  or  Nature  are  the  best  physicians.    Nature 
generally  knows  better  than  we  do,  but  she  is  not  al- 
ways to  be  trusted  to  do  what  we  want. 
Something  will  have  to  be  done! 
May  have  to  be  done.    Do  you  mind  if  I  ask  you  a 
few  questions? 

I  will  answer  anything  you  ask  me. 
Do  you  know  I  sometimes  wish  we  physicians  had  the 
power  that  our  rival,  the  priest,  has;  the  power  of 
getting  at  the  truth,  the  real,  inner  truth  of  our  pa- 
tients. The  body  is  so  often  little  more  than  the  slave 
of  the  mind  And  yet  all  we  can  say  is:  "Do  you 
feel  a  pain  here,  a  pain  there?"  the  mere  ache  of  the 
body.  We  dare  not  pry  into  the  soul. 
What  do  you  mean? 

If  I  were  a  priest,  I  would  ask  your  wife  to  come  to  me 
for  confession. 

:  (proudly)  My  wife  has  nothing  to  confess. 
Do  not  misunderstand  me.    Something  has  been  prey- 
ing on  her  mind;  the  mind  has  helped  to  take  its  own 
revenge  upon  the  body;  some  shock,  some  brooding 
trouble;  do  you  know  of  any? 
(shaking  his  head  blankly)  No. 
Something  to  account  for  what  is  certainly  the  fact: 
that  she  has  a  morbid  horror  of  giving  birth  to  a 
child. 

;    Nothing  possible  in  the  world. 
How  long  is  it  since  she  became  melancholy,  silent, 
brooding?    Since  she  has  expected  the  child? 
:  She  was  filled  with  joy!     Oh,  it  is  not  that.     Some- 
thing has  changed  her,  but  not  that,  about  five  months 
ago.    I  don't  know  what  it  was.    There  was  no  reason. 
There  could  have  been  no  reason. 
And  since  then? 
•.(bitterly)  She  has  been  different,  she  has  seemed  as 
if  she  were  afraid  of  something;  afraid  of  me!     But 
it's  nerves,  surely  it's  nothing  but  nerves?    It's  wild 
here  in  the  Winter,  the  house  is  gloomy,   it's  too 
near  the  sea.    She  is  rather  afraid  of  the  sea  and  the 
wind,  but  I'll  take  her  to  London,  111  do  anything 


The    Little     Review 


she  likes.    I'm  very  fond  of  Barbara!     All  I  want  is 

one  thing:  my  son.    It  will  be  a  son.    It  must  be.    It's 

all  I  want  in  the  world. 
DR.  T.:  You  want  a  son  more  than  anything  in  the  world? 

(A   pause). 

Do  you  know  I  don't  always  agree  with  people  wher 

they  express  that  wish.    There  are  some  children  wh( 

should  never  be  bom.     (He  looks  at  ROSCORLA 

keenly). 
ROSCORLA:  (excitedly)  My  son  must  be  born.    If  I  don't  have 

son,  Gregory  gets  the  land  when  I  die. 
DR.  T. :  Is  that  why  you  want  a  son  so  much,  Ro.scorla? 

ROSCORLA:  (rising  to  his  jeet,  in  intense  excitement,  and  leaninf 

towards    the    doctor)      Isn't    that    reason    enough 

Gregory  shall  never  be  master  here,  not  if  I'm  alive 

not  if  I'm  dead.    /   keep  him  out  now,  and  my  soi 

keeps  him  out  when  I'm  gone. 
DR.  T.:  ^"What  wrong  has  your  brother  done  you? 

ROSCORLA: (sitting  down  fiercely)  Wrong?    Nonel  He  exists. 
DR.  T.:  Is  that  enough  reason,  in  your  family,  for  hating  on- 

another? 
ROSCORLA:  (jumping  up  in  rage)  Yes.     (Sitting  down  again) 

Don't  you  know  the  saying:  to  hate  like  a  Roscorla 

It's  a  true  saying. 
DR.  T.  I  know  it's  a  true  saying.    I  was  by  your  father's  bed 

side  when  he  died. 
ROSCORLA:  They  sent  me  away  when  he  was  dying.    I  was  younj 

then.     I  never  heard  much  about  it. 
DR.  T:  When  I  said  to  you  jiist  now  that  there  were  som 

children  who  should  never  be  born 

ROSCORLA:  Yes? 

DR.  T:  Do  you  know  much  about  your  family  history.  Ros 

corla? 
ROSCORLA:  I've  got  the  pedigree;  it's  in  the  drawer,  yonder. 

never  went  beyond  it. 
DR.  T:  I  don't  quite  mean  that.     Your  father,  your  grand 

father,  his  father:   do  you  know  much  about  them 

about  how  they  lived  and  died? 
ROSCORLA:   (with  a  laugh,  which  he  tries  to  render  careless)  No^ 

you're  talking  to  me  like  Asenath.     What  are  thes' 

riddles,  Doctor? 
DR.  T:  Asenath!     What  was  she  saying  to  you?     She  ha 

been  here  since  your  grandfather's  time,  hasn't  she? 


The    Little     Review 


33 


ROSCORLA:  Asenath  is  always  saying  she  has  seen  three  genera- 
tions born,  and  the  birth  of  a  Roscorla  brings  trouble 
and  talk  of  that  kind.  But  you,  Doctor,  you  are  not 
going  to  tell  me  old  wives'  tales?  (Excitedly)  I  want 
to  know  exactly  what  you  mean. 

DR.  T:  What  I  mean  is  this,  that,  as  you  must  be  aware, 

there  is  a  certain  strain  in  your  family,  call  it  a  strain 
of  eccentricity,  which  is  not  exactly  healthy;  perhaps 
from  an  abstract  point  of  view,  not  exactly  desirable 
to  perpetuate.  Have  you  ever  thought  of  the  respon- 
sibility of  bringing  a  child  into  the  world?  (Mean- 
ingly) Has  your  wife  ever  thought  of  it? 

ROSCORLA:  (looking  round  at  him  in  a  dazed,  awakening  way)  I 
begin  to  see  what  you  mean.     You  mean  (slowly) 

that   we   are   all (breaking   off  with   a   gasp   of 

terror.) 

DR.  T:  You  see  my  point.    You  see  the  reason  why  I  speak 

to  you  about  it  at  this  moment. 

ROSCORLA:  (haggard  and  dazed,  shaking  his  head  helplessly) 
No  ....  (His  face  slowly  changes,  and  with  a  dxdl 
terror  in  his  eyes  he  whispers)  Is  it  in  me? 

DR.  T:  No,  no,  I  don't  mean  that  at  all.    One  generation  may 

escape,  often  does.    It  is  the  next  that  suffers. 

ROSCORLA:  The  next! 

DR.  T:  Now,  I  tell  you  frankly;     I  am  not  sure  that  I  can 

save  both  your  wife  and  your  child.  If  the  child  lives 
the  mother  may  die.  Will  you  risk  her  life  on  a  pos- 
sibility, on  such  a  possibility?  Will  you,  after  what 
I  have  told  you? 

ROSCORLA:  (sullenly)  I  don't  believe  what  you  have  told  me. 
The  family's  a  good  family.  You  and  Asenath  are 
only  trying  to  frighten  me.  I  must  have  my  son. 
And  Barbara (excitedly)  Both! 

DR  .T:  I  am  not  sure  I  can  save  them  both. 

ROSCORLA:  Barbara  has  been  a  good  wife  to  me.  There  was  no 
woman  for  me  till  I  married  Barbara.  I  shouldn't 
care  much  for  life  if  she  wasn't  there  But  my  son — 
he's  to  live  after  me!  If  my  son  isn't  born  Gregory  11 
have  the  place.  (Starting  to  his  feet  as  if  struck  by 
a  sudden  thought)  Do  you  think  she  knows  an5rthing 
about  it?    Is  that  why  she's  frightened  of  me? 

DR.  T:  I  think  it  is  possible  she  has  guessed  something. 


34  The     Little     Kevie-iV 


ROSCORLA:  (in  wild  excitement)  She  wants  to  rob  me  of  my 
child!  She  wants  my  child  not  to  be  born!  They 
all  want  my  child  not  to  be  born!  They  are  all  in 
league  against  me!  But,  I'll  have  my  way.  It's  the 
way  of  Nature!  I  have  that  on  my  side  they  can't 
fight  with.  They're  fighting  against  God.  (Drop- 
ping into  his  chair  as  if  exhausted)  I  must  have  my 
child. 

(While  he  is  speaking  the  door  on  the  right  opens, 
and  ASENATH  steals  in  quietly  and  makes  her  way 
unobserved  to  her  seat  by  the  fire.  She  listens  to  every 
word). 

DR.  T:  At  whatever  cost? 

aOSCORLA:  At  whatever  cost! 

DR.  T:  (rising  and  taking  out  his  watch)  I  will  return  in 

half-an-hour.     Mind,  till  then,  quiet;  above  all,  quiet. 

(He  goes  out.     ROSCORLA  buries  his  face  in  his 

hands,  and  then  sits  staring  before  him  with  his  elbows 

on  his  knees.    After  a  pause). 

ROSCORLA:  What  have  you  been  saying  to  my  wife,  Asenath? 

ASENATH:    (as  if  she  did  not  hear)  Eh,  master? 

ROSCORLA:  It  is  you  that  set  her  thinking  on  things  there  was  no 
need  to  think  on. 

ASENATH:  A  young  wife  thinks  her  own  thoughts;  what  should 
an  old  woman  give  her  to  think  on?  Maybe,  it's  the 
wind  she's  thinking  on  now,  and  the  life  that's  coming 
as  the  wind  comes. 

ROSCORLA:  How  did  my  father  die,  Asenath? 

ASENATH:    He  died  hard;  he  cursed  his  own  father. 

ROSCORLA:  And  my  grandfather,  Asenath? 

ASENATH:  They  took  him  away;  he  didn't  die  at  Roscorla.  The 
Roscorla  blood  was  in  him. 

ROSCORLA:  Docs  Barbara  know  all  this.  Asenath? 

ASENATH:  How  should  I  know,  master?  It's  whispered,  it's  not 
spoken. 

ROSCORLA:  (getting  up  and  walking  to  and  fro,  and  speaking 
half  to  'himself  and  half  to  ASENATH)    If  it's  true— 

•  but  it's  not  true — it  makes  no  difference.     Do  you 

understand,  Asenath,  it's  not  true!     Have  you  been 
telling  these  lies  to  my  wife? 

(ASENATH  makes  no  reply,  but  gazes  at  him 
fixedly). 


The    Little    Review 


35 


ASENATH: 


SISTER  A. 

ASENATH: 

SISTER  A. 

ASENATH: 
SISTER  A. 


ASENATH: 
SISTER  A. 


ASENATH: 
SISTER  A. 


The  Roscorla  family  is  the  best  family  in  Cornwall. 
What  have  you  been  telling  her? 

(She  remains  silent). 
She  always  believed  everything  you  said  to  her.  And 
she  has  been  believing  it;  she  hates  to  bear  me  a 
child  because  he'll  be  a  Roscorla.  He  shall,  he  shall 
be  a  Roscorla!  I  am  going  to  speak  to  her,  she  must 
see,  it  must  be  proved  to  her!  She  doesn't  want  my 
child  to  be  bom,  Asenath.    But  he  miist  be  born. 

(In  suppressed  excitement  he  goes  up  to  the  bed- 
room door,  opens  it  and  goes  in). 
What  were  they  talking  about?  "Must  have  my 
child,"  he  said;  "at  any  cost,"  he  said.  Whose  cost? 
Mistress  Barbara's.  It's  the  mother  for  the  child, 
they  mean.  Is  it?  (she  laughs).  She  shall  know, 
she  shall.  She's  a  brave  woman;  she  will  do  justice 
on  the  Roscorlas. 

(SISTER  AGATHA  opens  the  bedroom  door  and 
comes  out,  accompanied  by  SISTER  KATHERINE, 
who  goes  out  by  the  door  on  the  right.  She  goes  over 
to  ASENATH). 

He  sent  us  away.  Will  he  be  quite  quiet?  He  was 
quiet,  but  he  looked  strange.  He  said  he  had  to  speak 
to  her  alone. 

It's  lies  that  he  has  to  tell  her.  But  I  am  going  to 
tell  her  the  truth. 

Asenath,  what  is  the  truth?    Is  it  something  terrible? 
Why  do  you  look  at  me  like  that? 
Has  she  said  nothing? 

She  was  listening,  and  she  asked  me  if  that  was  the 
wind,  and  I  said  yes,  and  she  said  "The  wind  from 
the  sea.  The  wind  of  birth!"  and  then  she 
said,  "I  don't  want  to  die,  but  it  would  be  better  if  I 
were  dead.  I  am  bringing  life."  And  she  turned  her 
head  over  on  the  pillow,  .and  lay  quite  still. 
And  that  was  all? 

No;  I  heard  her  say:  "If  I  had  only  the  courage!" 
I  don't  know  what  she  meant.  And  she  said,  as  if  she 
were  speaking  to  herself,  "It  would  be  the  right  thing, 
wouldn't  it?" 

She  knows  the  right  thing,  and  when  she  knows  all 
she  will  do  the  right  thing. 
Listen!     He  is  speaking  loud.     O,  he  should  not  cry 


36 


The    Little    Review 


ASENATH: 

SISETR  A.: 
ASENATH: 


ROSCORLA 


SISTER  A.: 
ROSCORLA 
SISTER  A.: 
ROSCORLA 


ROSCORLA 
ASENATH: 


out  to  her  like  that!     I  must  go  back.     She  was  so 
frightened,  and  she  is  lying  there  between  life  and 
death,  as  if  she  had  to  choose  between  them. 
(Rising)  Child,  let  me  go  ia  to  her.    I  can  soothe  her 
better  than  you  can  soothe  her. 
If  she  could  only  sleep! 

I  will  try  to  put  her  to  sleep.  But  only  if  she  chooses 
sleep. 

(The  bedroom  door  opens  and  ROSCORLA  rushes 
out  violently.  ASENATH  slips  into  the  room  and 
closes  the  door  behind  her). 

(beside  himself— to  SISTER  AGATHA)  I  told  her 
it  was  alright;  I  told  her  the  child  must  be  born;  I 
was  perfectly  quiet;  I  said  "Look  at  me!"  I  was  as 
quiet  as  possible,  but  she  wouldn't  hear;  she  shrank 
away  from  me;  she  said:  "You,  you  I  see  it  all;  now 
I  see  it!"  and  that  put  me  in  a  fury,  and  I  don't  quite 
know  what  I  said  to  her. 

(A  low  wail  is  heard  jrom  the  bedroom;  they  listen). 
What  was  that? 

Asenath  is  trying  to  put  her  to  sleep. 
Why  isn't  the  doctor  here? 
I  think  I  hear  him  coming.    Listen. 
He  is  coming! 

(He  goes  towards  the  door;  the  doctor  comes  in, 
greets  him,  and,  with  a  questioning  lift  of  the  eye- 
brows to  SISTER  AGATHA,  goes  into  the  bedroom, 
followed  by  her.  After  a  slight  pause,  the  doctor 
comes  out,  holding  a  phial  in  his  hand.  He  says 
quietly): 

I  have  come  too  late.    She  is  dead. 
:  (with  a  cry,  falling  on  his  knees  by  the  table)  My 
God! 

(appearing  at  the  bedroom  door)  hush!  I  have  put 
her  to  sleep.  She  chose  sleep.  There  will  be  no  more 
trouble  to  the  Roscorlas  for  a  time  now. 


THE    CURTAIN    FALLS. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  37 

THE  READER  CRITIC 

Letters  from  Ezra  Pound 

Chere  Editeuse: 

May  I  be  permitted  to  leave  the  main  part  of  the  magrazine,  and 
reply  in  the  correspondence  columns  to  several  other  writers  of 
letters? 

A.  R,  S.  Cher  Monsieur :  There  is  one  section  of  our  magazine  devoted 
(DEEvoted)  to  "interpretation";  it  is,  if  you  have  not  divined  it. 
The  Reader  Critic.  It  is,  so  far  as  I  know,  the  only  publication  that 
ever  has  "interpreted"  our  native  country.  Never  before  has  the  in- 
telligent foreigner  been  able  to  fearn  "what  the  American  artist  is 
up  against." 

V.  H.,  (Maine).  Chere  Madam :  Could  Lewis  but  hear  you,  through  his 
gas-mask,  gazing  at  the  ruins  of  one  of  the  gun  parapets  of  his  battery,  I 
think  he  would  smile  with  the  delicate  and  contented  smile  that  I  have  at 
moments  seen  "lighting  his  countenance".  There  was  once  a  man 
who  began  an  article:  "WE  MUST  KILL  JOHN  BULL,  we  must 
kill  him  with  Art".  These  words  smote  the  astonished  eyes  of  the 
British  public.  No  other  Englishman  had  ever  before  so  blasphemed 
the  effete  national  symbol.  Neither  had  any  one  else  very  much 
objected  to  the  ladies  in  nightgowns  which  distinguished  Punch' 
caricatures.  The  writer  was,  needless  to  say,  Wyndham  Lewis.  He 
will  probably  have  died  for  his  country  before  they  find  out  what  he 
meant. 

L.  P.  Cher  Monsieur :  You  ask  "What  sympathy  can  the  ma- 
jority of  readers  feel  for  the  foreign  editor,  Ezra  Pound,  with  his  con- 
temptuous invective  against  the  "vulgus"?  Are  the  majority  of  the  read- 
ers "vulgus"?  We  had  hoped,  the  few  choice  spirits  were  gathered. 
Perhaps  they  have  only  migrrated  to  this  side  of  the  ocean. 

There  was  also  a  lady  or  mother  who  wrote  to  me  (personally) 
from  New  Jersey,  asking  me  to  stop  the  magazine  as  Lewis's  writ- 
ings were  "bad  for  her  milk".  (I  am  afraid  there  is  no  way  of  soft- 
ening her  phrase  for  our  readers).  Madame,  what  you  need  is  lactol 
and  not  literature;  you  should  apply  to  a  druggist. 

And  there  is  the  person  who  says  all  my  stuflE  is  "in  a  way  propa- 
ganda. If  not",  what  am  I  "trying  to  do",  etc  Cher  Monsieur:  My 
propaganda  is  the  propaganda  of  all  realist  and  almost  all  fine 
un-realist  literature,  if  I  seek  to  "do"  anything  it  is  only  to  stimulate 


7,8  T  he    Lit  1 1  c    Review 

a  certain  awareness.  It  would  not  distress  me  if  the  reader  should 
suddenly  look  upon  his  surroundings  and  upon  his  own  conscious- 
ness and  try  to  see  both  for  himself,  in  his  own  terms,  not  in  my 
terms,  nor  in  the  terms  of  President  Wilson,  or  W.  D.  Howells,  or 
Scribner's,  or  any  other  patent  cut-size  machine,  or  home-mould  or 
town-mould,  or  year-mould.  Voila  toute  ma  petite  propagande.  It  is 
.so  little  propaganda  that  I  am  quite  content  if  it  has  no  such  effects, 
and  if  two  or  three  pleasant  people  are  enabled  to  get  through  a  dull 
evening  more  easily  with  the  aid  of  my  sketches;  or  those  of  the  writ- 
ers whom  I  have  brought  to  this  magazine.  There  are  some  people 
who  are  not  entertained  by  Success,  the  Saturday  Evening  Post,  The 
Seven  Arts,  The  Dial  and  all  that  contingent.  "Matter",  as  Lewis  has 
written,  "which  does  not  contain  enough  intelligence  to  permeate  it, 
grows,  as  you  know,  rotten  and  gangrenous."  It  is  not  everyone  who 
enjoys  the  aroma  of  a  dormant  and  elderly  corporis  litterarum,  nor 
the  stertorous  wheeze  of  its  breathing. 

If  I  were  propaganding  I  should  exhort  you  to  get  a  decent  in- 
ternational copyright  law — though  as  my  own  income  will  presumably 
never  equal  that  of  a  plumber,  or  stir  the  cupidity  of  the  most  class- 
hating,  millionaire-cursing  socialist,  I  have  very  little  interest  in  this 
matter. 

I  should  exhort  you  to  enliven  your  universities.  1  should,  what- 
ever your  nationality,  exhort  you  to  understand  that  art  is  exceeding 
slow  in  the  making,  that  a  good  poet  can  scarcely  write  more  than 
twenty  good  pages  a  year,  and  that  even  less  that  this,  if  it  be  good. 
should  earn  him  his  livelihood.  (This  problem'  with  good  augury  1 
shall  of  course  attempt  to  solve  with  this  magazine.)  I  should,  if  you 
are  American,  exhort  you,  for  your  own  good,  to  try  not  to  drive 
all  your  best  artists  out  of  the  country.  (Not  that  I  object  to  living 
in  London,  North  Italy,  Paris,  or  that  my  name  need  be  dragged 
into  the  matter).  I  would  ask  you  to  try  to  understand  WHY  Ameri- 
can literture  from  1870  to  1910  is  summed  up  in  the  sentence:  "Henry 
James  stayed  in  Paris  reading  Flaubert  and  Turgenev.  Mr.  William 
Dean  Howells  returned  to  America  and  read  the  writings  of  Henry 
James."  And  WHY  Whistler  stayed  in  Europe,  although  Chase 
went  back  to  the  Philadelphia  Fine  Arts  Academy.  These  are  simple 
questions  which  the  serious  reader  will  not  try  to  shirk  answering. 

However  these  matters  do  not  belong  to  the  body  of  the  magazine, 
which  will  at  best,  as  the  clubman  complains,  be  devoted  to  "inven- 
tion" if  there  is  enough  invention  to  fill  it;  and  at  worst  to  active 
cerebration. 

Votre  bien  devoue, 

Ezra  Pound. 


The    Little    Review 


39 


P.  S.  An  american  author  writes  to  me  "You  mix  your  damn  foolery 
with  sense,  so  you  continue  readable".  Chere  Editeuse,  what  does 
this  person  want?  Does  he  wish  it  unmixed  and  therefore  unreadable? 
Should  he  follow  the  sign  "Seek  safety  first!"?  Read  The  Spectator! 
Does  he  wish  "sound  opinion",  cautious  statement,  the  New  Repub- 
lic's guarded  hazard  that  six  and  seven  probably  will  make  thirteen, 
but  that,  etc ? 

This  Approaches  Literature! 

Abel   Sanders: 

The  enclosed  document  may  be  of  interest  to  you,  as  showing  the 
true  nature  of  the  forces  against  which  we  are  arrayed. 

SECRET 

Translation  of  a  German  document  dated  February  20,  1916,  taken 
from  a  German  prisoner  captured  near  Ypres,  Comines  Canal,  March 
2,   1916). 

Committee  for  the  increase  of  population 

Notice    No.    138756. 
Sir: 

On  account  of  all  able-bodied  men  having  been  called  to  the 
colours,  it  remains  the  duty  of  all  those  left  behind  for  the  sake  of 
the  Fatherland  to  interest  themselves  in  the  happiness  of  the  married 
women  and  maidens  by  doubling  or  even  trebling  the  number  of 
births. 

Your  name  has  been  given  us  as  a  capable  man,  and  you  are  here- 
with requested  to  take  on  this  office  of  honour  and  do  your  duty  in  a 
proper  German  way.  It  must  here  be  pointed  out  that  your  wife  or 
fiancee  will  not  be  able  to  claim  a  divorce,  it  is  in  fact  hoped  the 
women  will  bear  this  discomfort  heroically  for  the  sake  of  the  War. 

You  will  be  given  the  district  of   Should  you  not  feel 

capable  of  carrying  on  the  task  allotted  to  you,  you  will  be  given 
three  days  in  which  to  name  someone  in  your  place.  On  the  other 
hand  if  you  are  prepared  to  take  on  a  second  district  as  well,  you  will 
become  a  "Deckofificer"*  and  receive  a  pension. 

An  exhibition  of  photographs  of  women  and  maidens  in  the  dis- 
trict allotted  to  you,  is  to  be  found  at  the  office  of  ...  .  You  are 
requested  to  bring  this  letter  with  you. 

Your  good  work  should  commence  immediately  on  this  notification. 
A  full  report  of  results  is  to  be  submitted  by  you  after  nine  months. 


■*  "Deck"  possibly  meaning  "coverlet". 


40  T  he    Li  t  tie    Review 

Worthy  of  Byron 

Frank  Harris,  New  York: 

Hearty  congratulations!  I've  read  innumerable  things  of  Ezra 
Pound  in  the  last  ten  years  and  found  nothing.  He  has  tantalized  me 
with  the  feeling  that  there  must  be  some  originality  to  explain  if  not 
to  justify  at  least  his  preposterous  name.  And  now  in  The  Little 
Review  his  satiric  poem,  "L'Homme  Moyen  Sensuel",  really  enchants 
me:  there  are  rhymes  in  it  worthy  of  Byron. 

That  "infant  tick  who's  now  the  editor  of  The  Atlantic"  is  as  good 
as  the  couplet  on  H.  Van  Dyke.  When  he  praises  (Henry  James,  for 
instance),  he's  not  so  convincing.  Still  I  enjoyed  the  whole  thing 
immensely  and  thank  you  for  the  treat. 

Dry  Bones 

H.  R.,  Trinidad,  Colorado: 

I  enclose  a  subscription  to  The  Little  Review.  Not  because  it  is 
worth  it.  You  know  it  is  not.  But  because  of  my  appreciation  of 
the  magazine  when  it  first  heralded  the  dawn  of  a  new  era.  I  knew 
the  body  and  soul  of  it  then  and  thought  it  the  most  significant, 
youthful  and  vigorous  magazine  in  America.  When  your  last  num- 
ber reached  me  I  exclaimed  "How  the  mighty  have  fallen!"  It  at- 
tempts to  speak,  but  the  voice  is  too  feeble.  Through  its  pages  I 
find  only  bones,  dry  bones,  sans  life,  sans  youth,  sans  energy. 

But  as  long  as  you  are  at  the  helm  of  the  new  adventure  I  have 
faith  in  The  Little  Review.    I  know  it  will  emerge  triumphantly. 

Alienation 

Otis   A.   Poole,    Shidzuoka,   Japan: 

Sometimes  I  think  you  needlessly  alienate  the  support  of  numbers 
of  subscribers,  possessed  of  rudimentary  ambitions  toward  a  better 
appreciation  of  Art  in  its  various  forms,  by  too  roughly  snubbing  and 
scoffing  at  them,  because  they  do  not  immediately  swallow  all  the 
new  "stuff"  created  in  defiance  of  convention  and  precedent,  without 
a  grimace  of  dislike  or  a  rational  lack  of  faith  in  its  worthwhileness 
as  expressive  of  the  present  era's  conception  of  truth  and  beauty  in 
all  that  pertains  to  life  as  it  is  or  might  be;  but  "the  Gods  give  my 
donkey  wings",  if  herewith  isn't  an  extension  of  my  subscription  to 
The  Little  Review  in  spite  of  it. 

Art  and  the  War 

/.  K.  C,  Boston: 

The  idea  of  The  Little  Review  appealed  to  me  immensely  and  I 
subscribed    because    I    wanted    to   be    friends.      Altogether    I    like   it: 


T h e    Li  1 1 1  e    R  eview  41 

ispecially  your  article  on  Isadora  Duncan,  Ezra  Pound's  stuff,  and 
he  Chinese  poems.  Also  the  book  reviews,  which,  to  use  a  phrase  of 
!veon  Daudet,  are  not  "mere  vague  publicity"  like  most  of  them 
hese  days. 

But  I  was  very  much  surprised  by  the  lack  of  appreciation  and  un- 
lerstanding  shown  by  your  comments  on  Le  Feu  by  Henri  Barbusse, 
►ut  decided  that  you  had  probably  never  read  that  great  book.  What 
listresses  me,  however,  is  in  the  August  number.  Some  one  from 
Cansas  writes  congratulating  you  for  not  printing  anything  about 
this  blasted  war".     That  you  do  not  I  have  no  quarrel  with.     It  is 

relief.  But  when  in  a  superior  way  you  say  that  you  do  not  con- 
ider  the  war  "an  interesting  or  legitimate  subject  for  Art"  I  cannot 
gree.  The  existence  of  Art  and  all  its  traditions  depends  on  the 
mtcome  of  the  war,  which  is  fundamentally  a  war  of  the  ideal  of 
hese  traditions  against  the  ideal  of  power.     Read  Le  Genie  Latin,  by 

ugliumo  Ferrero  if  you  have  not  already  done  so.  Think  of  the 
teautiful  noble  things  inspired  by  the  war  in  France:  for  example, 
,mong  many,  the  articles  of  Barres  in  L'Echo  de  Paris  and  the  poems 
if  Paul  Claudel.  After  your  statement,  to  compare  these  writings 
vith  some  that  you  have  printed  is  quite  laughable.  And  then  Art 
leeds  something  noble  in  it,  and  anything  where  noble  self-sacrifice 
ccurs  daily  is  a  fit  subject  for  it. 

(I  don't  understand  what  you  mean  by  my  lack  of  appreciation 
i  Le  Feu.  The  object  of  M.  Barbusse  was  to  show  that  the  immense 
lorror  of  war  is  not  to  be  used  for  any  object  except  for  the  destruc« 
ion  of  that  horror.  As  for  the  noble  elements  of  daily  self-sacrifice, 
tc,  etc.,  he  says:  "It  would  be  a  crime  to  show  the  nobler  aspects  of 
'^ar,    even   if    there    were    any." 

As  for  Art  needing  something  noble  in  it :  Art  doesn't  need  anything ; 

rt  is  the  nobility.  And  of  course  I  thought  we  needn't  argue  any  longer 
bout  the  vice  of  self-sacrifice. 

But  you  have  clearly  misunderstood  what  was  meant  by  the  war  not 
eing  a  legitimate  subject  for  Art.  We  will  arg^e  it  fully  in  the  next 
isue.  Also  I  have  a  long  letter  from  Stephane  Boecklin  about  the  artist's 
elation  to  the  war,  which  will  be  printed  in  the  November  number.— 
f.  C.  A.] 


42  ThcLittleRcvieiv 


ART   AND   CRITICISM    IN   AMERICA 

(from    the    New    York    Press) 

Tribune:  "Editli  Wharton's  Summer  (Appleton)  is  a  masterpiece  of 
accurate,  graceful  and  fascinating  composition  ...  a  climax  of  graphis 
power  is  reached  which  has  seldom  been  approximated  in  contemporary 

fiction.      But   then the  pity  of   it  all !   the   pity   of   it  all !        Was   it 

worth  while  to  use  such  gifts,  to  employ  such  rare  and  exqiiisite  an  art- 
istry, in  the  exploitation  of  so  sordid  and  so  seamy  a  side  of  life?  .  .  . 
If  now  and  then,  and  here  and  there,  man  must  be  so  fallen  and  so  lost, 
let  us  rather  'Walk  backward  with  averted  gaze  and  hide  the  shame.'  " 

Times:  Mr.  Lewis's  (The  innocents,  by  Sinclair  Lewis.  Harper) 
native  endowement  is  essentially  Dickensian,  because  his  mental  affinity 
is  stronger  for  what  is  sweet  and  clean  and  bright,  upward  looking  and 
forward  pressing,  in  human  nature,  than  it  is  for  the  rotten,  the  dour 
and  the  hopeless.  He  sees  and  duly  uses  these  poisoned  and  poisonous 
elements  of  human  life,  but  in  his  estimate  of  the  forces  that  inspire, 
etc.,  etc." 

(To  get  the  full  value  of  the  reviews  of  Mr.  Lewis's  work  one  must 
read  his  countless  stories  and  novels.  But  it  would  be  well,  perhaps,  to 
mention  that  he  is  a  rising  young  manufacturer  of  literary  all-day  suck- 
ers, who  turns  out  a  novel  in  about  the  time  it  took  Flaubert  to  write  a 
paragraph  of  Madame  Bovary)  —  /.  S. 

Roosevelt's    "The    Foes    of    Our 
Own    Household". 

This  is  an  invaluable  book.  It  is  a  compilation  of  all  the  outworn 
thought  of  the  last  two  generations. — jh. 

WE   WANT! 

We  want  monthly  eight  pages  more  for  French,  eight  pages  more 
for  painting  and  sculpture  (when  extant),  sixteen  pages  more  if  we 
are  to  print  both  the  Hueffer  prose  series  and  the  new  novel  prom- 
ised by  James  Joyce,  at  the  same  time.  We  see  no  reason  why  we 
should  not  publish  music  (not  criticism  of  music)  if  any  happens  to 
be  written.  Even  our  most  rabid  detesters  can  not  expect  us  to 
double  our  format  unless  we  can,  at  about  the  same  time,  double  our" 
list  of  subscribers.    It  is,  placid  reader,  up  to  you. 


i 

Mr.  KNOPF  announces 

LUSTRA 

by  Ezra  Pound 

This,  the  first  book  of; 
poertis  by  Mr.  Pound  to  appear ; 
in  this  country  since  1912,1 
opens  with  a  number  of  \ 
pieces  on  modern  subjects.] 
These  are  followed  by  the  now  \ 
famous  Cathay  "translation" ; 
from  the  Fenollosa  Chinese! 
manuscripts.  Then  come  some  i 
earlier  poems,  and  the  book! 
closes  with  the  long  and  new  \ 
Three  Cantos.  \ 

The  volume  contains  muchf 
that  is  not  included  in  any} 
English  editions  of  Mr.  Pound's  f 
books.  I 

%i.5o  net  at  all  bookshops     I 

Alfred  A.  Knopf, 

Publisher  | 

New  York  I 


Modern    Gallery 

500   Fifth   Avenue 


DAUMIER 

CEZANNE 

LAUTREC 

VAN  GOGH 

PICASSO 

BRANCUSI 

PICABIA 

DERAIN 

BURTY 

VLAMINCK 

RIVERA 

BRAQUE 


Mexican  Pre-Conquest  Art 
African   Negro   Sculpture 


EUGENE 
HUTCHINSON 

PHOTOGRAPHS 

Fine  Arts  Building 
Chicago.  Illinois 


To 

the 

Memory 

of 

"The  Seven  Arts" 


FALL  ANNOUNCEMENT  OF  NEW  BOOKS 
OF  THE  OPEN  COURT  PUBLISHING  CO. 

Bool's  Collected  Logical  Works.  Volume  two: 
Laws  of  Thought.    $3.00. 

"Here  is  an  exact  reproduction  in  the  1854  original,  with  the 
addition  of  an  index.  The  same  is  established  of  fundamental 
laws  as  in  the  earlier  Mathematical  Analysis  of  Logic  but  with 
more  general  methods  and  a  wider  range  of  application."  — 
The  St.  Louis  Mirror. 

The  Contingency  of  the  Laws  of  Nature.  By 
Entile  Boutroux.  Translated  by  Fred  Rothwell. 
Goth,  $1.50. 

"M.  Boutroux  has  restored  to  man  his  thoughts  and  feelings 
that  reality  and  effective  influence  over  the  course  of  things 
which  common  sense  attributed  to  them."  —  Baltimore  News. 

Geometrical  Lectures  of  Isaac  Barrow.  With 
an  introduction  by  J.  M.  Child.    Cloth,  $1.25. 

"The  importance  of  this  work  to  students  of  mathematical 
theory  goes  without  saying.  The  introduction  is  carefully  and 
ably  reasoned."  —  The  Springfield  Republican. 

Diderot's  Early  Philosophical  Works.  Trans- 
lated and  Edited  by  Margaret  Jourdain.  Pp.  246. 
Cloth,  $1.00. 

"No  man  with  an  interest  in  literature  and  life  would  care 
to  be  without  a  reading  of  a  fine  specimen  of  Eighteenth  Centur>' 
thought."  —  The  Philadelphia  Inquirer. 

Professionalism  and  Originality.  By  F.  A. 
Hayzvard.    Cloth,  $1.75. 

"In  view  of  the  privileged  and  almost  irresponsible  positions 
occupied  by  the  professions  and  of  the  obscurity  involving  the 
questions  of  professional  superintendence  and  criticism  this  book 
is  of  great  and  possibly  permanent  interest" — The  Pittsburg  Post. 

A  Modern  Job.  An  essay  on  the  Problems  of 
Evil.     By  Etienne  Giran.     $.75. 

"The  volume  is  worthy  of  careful  reading  for  it  presents 
various  tendencies  found  in  our  world  to-day  and  also  shows 
that  it  is  dangerous  to  build  one's  theology  and  religion  in  any 
one-sided  fashion." —  International  Journal  of  Ethics. 

Three  Men  of  Judea.  By  Henry  S.  Stix.  Pp. 
T12,    Cloth,  $r.oo. 

This  book  is  not  written  for  scholars  but  for  those  simple 
minded  and  honest  folk  who  have  never  read  their  Bible  nor 
thought  much  on  the  subject  of  religious  history,  accepting  their 
religion  like  their  politics,  as  a  sort  of  parental  heritage. 

THE  OPEN  COURT  PUBLISHING  COMPANY 

122  South  Michigan  Avenue 
Chicago,    Illinois 


Interesting  New  Books  for  Discriminating  Readers 

Does  This  Amazing  Novel 
Forecast  the  Way  to  Peace? 

THE  COMING 

By  J.  C.  Snaith 

A  soldier,  wounded,  war  weary,  who  has  learned  in  the 
trenches  to  forget  the  meaning  of  hate;  a  village  vicar,  voicing 
the  venom  of  those  who  do  not  fight;  and  John  Smith,  simple, 
determined,  working  for  the  brotherhood  of  man — around  these 
three  characters  the  author  of  "The  Sailor"  has  written  an 
amazing  novel  of  the  spiritual  and  ethical  side  of  the  War. 

Cloth,  $1.50  net 


The  Wind  in  the  Com 

By  Edith  Franklin  Wyatt 
Song  poems  of  Democracy  and 
the  great  Trails  that  sound  a 
note  of  hope  and  honest  labor. 
$1.50  net 

Great  Companions 

By  Edith  Franklin  Wyatt 
A  delightful  discussion  of  the 
personalities  of  a  dozen  great 
writers.  $1.50  net 

Out  of  Their  Own  Mouths 

With  an  introduction  by 
William  Roscoe  Thayer 
An  accurate  translation  of  of- 
ficial German  letters  and  docu- 
ments which  prove  conclusive- 
ly how  and  why  the  Prussians 
began  the  war.  $x.oo  net 

The  Latin  at  War 

By  Will  Irwin 
An    intimate    account    of    the 
author's  experiences  in  France 
and  Italy  during  the  great  war. 
$1.75  net 


Summer 

By  Edith  Wharton 

A  vivid  story  of  life  in  a  small 

hill  town.  $1.50  net 

Susan  Lenox:  Her  Fall 
and  Rise 

By  David  Graham  Phillips 
"America  has  to  its  credit  one 
more  great  novel,  perhaps  the 
greatest  since  The  Scarlet 
Letter'  " — Minneapolis  Journal 
Two  vols,  boxed,  $2.50  net 

The  Red  Badge  of  Courage 

By  Stephen  Crane 
New    edition    with    an    Intro- 
duction by  ARTHim  Guy  Empey 
"This  is  not  a  story  of  war: 
It  is  War."  $1.00  net 

The  Quest  of  Ledgar 
Dunstan 

By  Alfred  Tresidder  Sheppard 
An  acute  study  of  a  drifter, 
who  seeks,  and  in  the  end, 
finds,   himself.  $1.50   net 


At  All  Booksellers     These  Are  Appleton  Books 
D.  Appleton  and  Company,  Publishers,  New  York 


COLONY    ART    SHOP 

Artists'    Materials 

fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiii^ 

I  Oil   and   Water  Colors 

1  Brushes  and  Canvas  = 

1  Smocks  to  Order  1 


Interior  and  Exterior  Decorating 

Paper  Hanging 

Polishing  and  Refinishing 

of  Wood  Work 


;iiniig- 


j  ADOLPH  KLAFF 

j      143  Sixth  Ave.,        NEW   YORK   CITY        Chelsea  1285      i 

iiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^^ 


OLD  CHELSEA 

51  West  1 6th  Street 
New  York  City 

Rooms,  Suites,  Floors 

furnished  or  unfurnished. 
Intelligent   service   for   busy 
men  and  women. 

Table  d'hote 
dining-room 

noted  for  fine  home  cooking. 

*'A  bit  of  Old  Chelsea 
in  little  old  New  York" 


Just  think! 

Translations  from  the  best 
of  the  Europeans 

Original  stories,  poems,  etc.. 
by  the  younger  Americans 

Drawings,  etchings,  and  other 
reproductions — all  in  the  same- 
magazine 

THE  PAGAN 

Unique   Monthly 
15  cents  a  copy       $1.50  a  year 

The  Pagan 
Publishing  Company 

174   Centre  Street 
New  York  City 


THE  ARTISTS'  GUILD 

A  NATIONAL  ORGANIZATION  INCORPORATED  ON 
A  "NOT  FOR  PROFIT  BASIS". 


Paintings,     Sculpture 
AND 

H  a  n  d  w  r  0  u  g  h  t     Objects 

As  security  for  the  purchase  and  to  insure  merit, 
all  works  are  approved  by  a  jury. 


Exquisite     and     Rare     Gifts 

The  Artists'  and  Craft  Workers'  own  organization 


V 


GALLERIES,   EXHIBITION   AND    SALESROOMS 
FINE    ARTS    BUILDING  CHICAGO,    ILLINOIS 


ECALL  that  golden  day  when  you  first  read  "  Huck  Finn  "? 
How  your  mother  said,  "  For  goodness'  sake,  stop  laughing 


^Ojfd  over  that  book.     You  sonncf  so  silly."     But  you  couldn't  stop  laughing. 

Today  when  you  read  "Huckleberry  Finn"  you  will  not  laugh  so  much.  You  will  chuckle 
often,  but  you  will  also  want  to  weep.  The  deep  humanity  of  it — the  pathos,  that  you 
never  saw,  as  a  boy,  will  appeal  to  you  now.  You  were  too  busy  laughing  to  notice  thp 
limpid  purity  of  the  master  s  style. 


When  Mark  Twain  first  wrote  "  Huckleberry  Finn  "  this  land  was  swept  with  a  gale 
of  laughter.     When  he  wrote  "  The  Innocents  Abroad  "  even  Europe  laughed  at  it  itsolf. 

But  one  day  there  appeared  a  new  book  from  his  pen,  so  spiritual^  so  trxie,  so  lofty  that 
those  who  did  not  know  him  well  were  amazed.  "  Joan  of  Arc  "  was  the  work  of  a  poet — 
a  historian — a  seer.  Mark  Twain  was  all  of  these.  His  was  not  the  light  laughter  of  a 
moment's  fun,  but  the  whimsical  humor  that  made  the  tragedy  of  life  more  bearable. 

The  Price  Goes  Up 

?•;  VnilTMFQ   Novels— Storiea  — Humor 
CD   VULiUlUEiJ  Essays— Travel  —  History 

This  is  Mark  Twain's  own  set.  This  is  the  set  he 
wanted  in  the  home  of  each  of  those  who  love  him. 
Because  he  asked  It,  Harpers  have  worked  to  make 
a  perfect  set  at  a  reduced  price. 

Before  the  war  we  had  a  contract  price  for  paper, 
so  we  could  sell  this  set.of  Mark  Twain  at  half-price. 


A  Real  American 

Mark  Twain  was  a  steamboat  pilot. 
He  was  a  searcher  for  gold  in  the  far 
West.  He  was  a  printer.  He  worked 
bitterly  hard.  All  this  without  a  glim- 
mer of  the  great  destiny  that  lay  before 
him.  Then,  with  the  opening  of  the 
great  wide  West,  his  genius  bloomed. 

His  fame  spread  through  the  nation. 
It  flew  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  until 
his  work  was  translated  into  strange 
tongues.  From  then  on,  the  path  of 
fame  lay  straight  to  the  high  places. 
At  the  height  of  his  fame  he  lost  all 
hU  money.  He  waj  heavily  in  debt, 
but  though  60  years  old,  he  started 
afresh  and  paid  every  cent.  It  was  the 
last  heroic  touch  that  drew  him  close 
to  the  hearts  of  his  countrymen. 

The  worid  has  asked  is  there  an  Ameri- 
can literature?  Mark  Twain  is  the  an- 
swer. He  is  the  heart,  the  spirit  of 
America.  From  his  poor  and  struggling 
boyhood  to  his  glorious,  splendia  old 
age,  he  remained  as  simple,  as  demo- 
cratic as  the  plainest  of  our  forefathers. 
He  was,  ol  all  Americans,  the  most  Ameri- 
can. Free  In  *oul,  and  dreaming  ol  high 
thjngi — brave  in  the  lace  of  trouble — and  al- 
ways ready  to  laugh.    That  was  Mark  Twain. 

HAJIPER  &  BROTHERS,  New  York 


rraaklla  8q.,  N.  T. 


Send  the  Coupon  Without  Money 

The  last  ol  the  edition  Is lo sight.  The  /, 
price  of  paper  has  gone  up.  There  can  Xukod^co'  m 
be  no  more  Mark  Twain  at  the  present  /^  nAnrtn  « 
price.  There  never  again  will  be  /  BROTHERS 
any  more  Mark  Tw.iln  at  the  pres- 
ent  price.  Get  the  25  volumes 
now,  while  you  can.  Every  j 
American  has  got  to  have  a  /  Send  me,  all  charges 
set  ol  Mark  Twain  In  his  X  Prepaid,  a  set  ol  Mark 
home.  Get  yours  now  XTwalu's  works  in  25 
and  save  money.  ^  volumes,  illustrated,   bound 

Yoorfhlldren  want  y  'o  handsome  green  cloth, 
Mark  Twain.  Too  /  stamped  in  gold,  gold  tops  and 
want  him.  Send  /  untrimmed  edges.  If  not  satislac- 
tbli  ronpoB  tot  X  *°''''  '  *'l' return  them  at  your  e^. 
day — now—          X  pense.   Otherwise  I  will  send  you  •• 

while  yog  X  '*''''■'''  ^  '**y«  »'><1 12.00  a  month  lor  12 
•re  look-  X  '"°''""'  t**"*  getting  the  benefit  ol  your 
log  at        •    hall-prlce  sale.  Uttle  Review 

It. 


THE   LITTLE   REVIEW 

Uespecting  no  vested  interests,  no  publishers' 

interests,  no  aged  magazines  and  reviews 

nor  staffs  of  the  same. 

•uary  nitmher: 

v7omen    and    Men  *    I.    l^y  Madox 

Hv^ffer 

ry  Letters,  VII.,  by  Wyndham  Lewis 
iiiciJ  the  Life  of  a  Poet,  by  John  Rodker 

A  S(  '  !  Humour,  II. ,  by  Wyndham  Lewis 

Ih'ip  !om  a  Country  Vicarage:  The  still 

ve  and  mischievous  clergy 
i  he    i^uiiituplc    Effulcc^nc-^     o^    Th-^    inap- 
proachable Splendor 

11  begin  a  new  novel  in  Febru.i: 
WE  WANT! 


ame 


us  to  double  our 


iSiIfi30TiS:2JmnIhi 

iHi:   51KAD1VAR1US   OF   PIANOS 

jMei5mii^'J|timlm(ira 

313    niTH   AVENUE 

NEW   YORK 

SPECIAL  ANNOUNCEMENT 

I  he  subscription  price  of    The    Little    Review   will  be  .  .,-•: 
oi  January  r  to  $2.50  a  year.     Single 

L';'  L     .  ,il  sell  for  25  CLUL 
Those  who  subscribe  before  January  1,  1918,  will  be  entitled 

to  t»v'  |>r<-'n»  rate  of  $1.50. 

FOR  CHRISTMAS 

The  bound  volumes  of  Tfic  Little  Review  now  constituti 
,1, ..-,.,.,(»  property.  Our  supply  of  back  numbers  is  no  linui.- 
ut  you  can  obtain  the  first  six  months  of  the  present 

'  \'   \  !'':''' 'i'l     n- .  7),  in  (list!  1,  i\,   '^ii,'':  ■■ .    fill 
rs  sent  in 


I  not  nnd  a  piore  suitable  Christmas  gift  for  your 

.  ;. .  iry"  friends.  » 

Or,  if  you  wish  to  send  The  Little  Review  for  the  next  year  to 

"t    v   y-.-'Vr  vour  order  as  soon  as  possible.   All 

January  i,  1918,  will  come  under 

tl.  M  price  of  $1.50. 


24  West  Sixteenth  btreet, 


New  York  City 


'%nr    i^,  ff/ 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO  COMPROMISE  WITH  THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


THE   STRADIVARIUS  OF   PIANOS 


i 


313    FIFTH   AVENUE 
NEW  YORK 


gPOEBR'S 


CANDIES  ---  LUNCHEONS 


Chicago  Stores 

106  NO.  STATE  ST.  1G4  WEST  ADAMS  ST. 

Phone  Central  1940  Phone  Franklin  5047 

17  SO.  DEARBORN   ST. 

Phone  Central  678 


^HE  LITTLE  REVIEW 


THE  .MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


Margaret  Anderson,  Publisher 
NOVEMBER,  1917 

oems  of  Li  Po  translated  by  Maxwell  Bodenheim 

catches  ^              jh. 

anrahan's  Oath  Lady  Gregory 

rawing  Max  Weber 

arving  Walt  Kuhn 

Tawing  Marie  Laiirencin 

Tawing  Henri  Gaudier-Brzeska 

rawing  Andre  D.  de  S  eg  ansae 

ngraving  Arthur  Davies 

he  Starry  Sky  Wyndham  Lezuis 

drawing  Jides  Pascin 

naginary  Letters,  VI.                                 Ezra  Pound 

he  Soul's  Awakening  /.  R.  White 

he  Raised  Arms  translated  from  De  Gourmont 

by  Stephane  Boecklin 
0  Subscribers 

Copyright,    1917,    by    Margaret    Anderson, 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,    Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign    Editor 
2'4  West  Sixteenth  Street,   New  York 

15  cents  a  copy  $1.50  a  year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P,  O.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


THE    GREENWICH    VILLAGE    THEATRE 

4th  Street  &  7th  Avenue 

THE 

OPENING 

BILL: 

A   Fantasy  in   two 

<^cenes,     Behind     the 

I'atteau   Picture,   by 

Robert     E.      Rogers, 

with   Incidental  music 

vfra^ww*  by   W.    Franke   Har- 

Efficiency  by  Ro- 
bert H.  Davis  and 
Perley  Poore  Shee- 
han. 

The     Festival      of 

Bacchus    by     Arthur 

Schnitzler,    translated 

'  by      Charles      Henry 

Meltzer. 


lite 


V/LLAGrE 


Opens 
November  15  th 


Subscription 

Books 
Now  Open 


A   BOOK  OF   REAL 
POETRY! 

RENASCENCE    AND     OTHER 

POEMS 

By 

Edna    St.    Vincent    Millay 

Limited  edition   on  Handmade  Paper 

;,;i.so 

Miss  Millay's  poems  have  a  re- 
markable freshness,  sinceritv  and 
power.  They  do  not  depend  upon 
curious  and  involved  artifice,  upon 
waywardi.  .ss  of  m.thod  or  metre, 
upon  the  presence  of  what  should 
be  absent.  They  do  not  present 
uncounthness,  or  mere  triteness,  as 
strength.  They  are  not  facile  out- 
pourings of  one  form  of  shallow- 
ness, nor  the  curt  trivialities  of 
another.  They  deal,  as  poetry 
should  deal,  primarily  with  emo- 
tion ;  with  the  sense  of  tears  and 
of  laughter,  in  mortal  things;  with 
beauty  and  passion ;  with  hayine  a 
losing;  with  discoveries  and  inven- 
tions. In  other  words,  they  deal 
with  life,  in  a  big,  true  and  fine 
way ;  and  they  should  appeal  to  all 
who  care  for  work  that  is  assuredly 
worth-while  and   notable. 

Send  in  your  suDscription  today. 
MITCHET-L   KENNERTEY 

PUrfl-iSHER      NEW   YORK 


By  LUDWIG  LEWISOHN 


THE  SPIRIT  OF 

MODERN    GERMAN 

LITERATURE 

AN     essay     in     aesthetic     and 
philosophical     criticism 
founded       upon       an       intensive 
study   of   the   recent   German   fic- 
tion,      poetry       and       speculative 
works.       The     soul    of    the    real 
Germany     can     best     be     under- 
stood     through      an      interpreta- 
tion  of   its   literal  inc. 
$1.00    net 
B.    W.    HUEBSCH, 
J25   Fifth  avenue.  New   York 


THE  LITTLE    REVIEW 

^OL.  IV.  NOVEMBER,  1917  No.  7. 

CHINESE    POEMS 

Translated  from  the  Chinese  of  Li  Po 
by  Sasaki  and  Maxwell  Bodenheim 

Whose    Daughter? 

Fling  me  harp-notes  almost  soundless. 

From  your  hidden  white  window. 

Your  coming  is  like  a  flower  petal 

Wavering  down  from  the  sky. 

Walk  after  me,  across  the  water 

Like  a  drifting  flower. 

You  sing  of  So-land,  and  speak  of  Ko-Iarid. 

You  seem  older  than  you  are 

And  that  opens  my  love. 

I  take  your  hand  and  we  walk  past  many  springs. 

A    Woman    Speaks 

The  keenest  of  swords  plunges  into  leaping  water 

And  cannot  cut  it. 

My  love  for  you  is  like  that  sword, 

But  winds  around  your  heart. 

After  you  go,  the  weeds  shrouding  my  garden-gate 

Fade,  and  become  the  groimd  of  autumn. 

But  spring  slips  back  from  your  foot-marks 

Prisoned  in  the  soft  ground,  about  the  gate. 


The     Little     Review 


A    Woman    Speaks 

And  my  heart  becomes  like  a  peach-blossom 

On  a  tree  that  grows  from  the  bottom  of  a  shallow  well. 

The  peach  blossom  opens  in  a  smile 

But  why,  since  he  has  gone? 

He  was  like  a  quick  moon 

That  gave  but  one  moon-strand, 

I  look  down  at  the  water  in  the  well 

But  I  cannot  recognize  myself 

For  I  am  shrivelled  by  the  lack  of  him. 

V  e  i  1  -  S  k  i  r  t 

Her  skirt  of  veils  is  like  curling  water 
Covered  with  golden  nets  of  frail  dust. 
How  can  I  drop  to  the  bottom  of  her  heart? 
I  cannot  refuse  a  thousand  cups  of  green  wine. 
Her  red  cheeks  sink  into  me,  and  make  me  dead. 

I    Go    to    Visit    a    Semi-God 

A  group  of  mountains,  like  blue  screens, 
Scrape  the  sky, 

r  'othing  is  written  upon  the  blue  screens, 
i  walk  over  them,  pushing  apart  the  clouds 
And  search  for  a  slender  road. 
I  lean  against  a  tree 
'  And  hear  rushing  springs,  and  see  warm  flowers. 
A  green  cow  lies  amid  the  warm  flowers 
And  white  cranes  sleep  on  the  tops  of  pine  trees. 
Twilight  rises  from  a  lake  below  the  mountains. 
And  meets  a  cold  haze  from  the  mountain-tops. 


The    Little     Review 


SKETCHES 

Jh. 
White 

I. 

Sharp,  empty  air  .  .  .  Out  of  the  black  mouths  of  engines  white' 
smoke  rises  on  thin  stems  into  white  ghosts  of  ancient  trees;  together 
they  rise  into  ghosts  of  ancient  forests,  sway  and  surge  and  are" 
gone  again  a  million  years. 

II. 

The  hot  air  of  the  day  stays  in  the  city  until  night.  The  long 
slope  of  my  roof  presses  the  heat  down  upon  me.  Soon  it  will 
rain.  But  there  is  no  rest  in  me:  my  heart  is  wandering  too  far. 
My  friends  may  still  be  in  the  city,  but  I  do  not  seek  them.  I  go 
to  the  animals  in  the  park.  Within  their  enclosures  black  shadows 
of  camels  lie  in  the  darkness.  A  great  white  camel  broods  in  the 
moonlight,  apart  from  the  rest.  His  lonely  eyes  are  closed  and  he 
moves  his  head  slowly  from  side  to  side  on  his  long  neck,  swaying 
in  pain,  searching  in  a  dream  for  his  lost  world.  I  have  seen  a  Nor- 
wegian ship  carrying  its  carved  head  through  the  waters  of  a  fjord 
with  such  a  movement  .... 

Now  the  high  clouds  cover  the  moon.  Out  on  the  lake  a  wind  as- 
sails the  layers  of  heat.  A  white  peacock  sits  in  a  tree,  aloof,  elegant, 
incorruptible  ...  A  light  green  spirit  .  .  .  Across  the  first  thunder 
he  lifts  his  long  white  laugh  at  us  like  a  maniac. 

Void 

I  cannot  live  long  in  your  city:  it  has  no  zones  of  pain  for  mfe 
where  I  may  rest,  no  places  where  old  joys  dwell  and  I  may  suffer. 
It  is  as  empty  for  me  as  the  honeycomb  cliff  cities  of  the  Southwest. 
For  I  shall  not  know  love  again  in  this  or  any  place. 


The    Little    Review 


HANRAHAN'S    OATH 

Lady    Gregory 

MARY  GILLIS 

MARGARET  ROONEY 

OWEN  HANRAHAN 

COEY  ^ 

MRS.  COEY  ' 

MICHAEL   FEENEY 

SCENE:     A  wild  and  rocky  place.     Door  of  stone  cabin  to 
LEFT,  that  is  the  bed  of  a  Saint. 

MARY  GILLIS  (coming  from  right).  —  Did  you  get  any  tidings 

of  him,  Margy? 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  All  I  heard  was  he  was  seen  going  over 

the  scalp  of  the  hill  at  daybreak. 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Bad  cess  to  him!    Why  wouldn't  he  stop  in  the 

house  last  night  beyond  any  other  night? 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  You  know  well  it  was  going  to  the 

preaching  of  that  strange  friar  put  disturbance  in  his  mind. 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Take  care  is  he  listening  to  him  yet. 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  He  is  not.     I  went  in  the  archway  of 

the  chapel  and  took  a  view.    The  missioner  is  in  it  yet,  giving 

out  masses  and  benedictions  and  rosaries  and  every  whole 

thing.    But  as  to  Owen  Hanrahan,  there  was  no  sign  of  him 

in  it  at  all. 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  the  drink  houses  I  went  searching  for  him. 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  He  was  never  greatly  given  to  drink 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  If  he  isn't,  he  is  given  to  company  and  he'd 

talk  down  all  Ireland. 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  So  he  is  a  terror  for  telling  stories,  and 

it  is  yourself  made  your  own  profit  by  it.     It  is  his  gift  of 

talk  brought  the  harvesters,  would  live  and  die  with  him, 

to  your  house  this  five  weeks  past. 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Yourself  that  is  begrudging  me  that,  where  you 

want  to  keep  him  to  yourself. 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  So  I  would  keep  him,  I  to  find  him. 


The    Little    Review 


I  wouldn't  wish  him  to  go  travelling.    He  had  his  enough  of 
hardship.    There  is  no  great  stay  in  him. 
ARY  GILLIS.  —  There  are  but  the  two  roads  for  him  to  travel 
from  the  scalp,  over  and  hither.    He  to  come  this  way,  believe 
me  I'll  bring  him  back  to  the  town. 
ARGARET  ROONEY.  —  He  wouldn't  go  with  you. 
ARY  GILLIS.  —  I  have  a  word  will  bring  him,  never  fear. 
ARGARET  ROONEY.  —  What  word  is  that? 
ARY  GILLIS.  —  What  was  it  he  was  giving  out  to  the  two  of  us 
ere  yesterday,  the  time  he  came  back  after  having  drink 
taken  at  the  sailor's  wake? 
ARGARET  ROONEY.  —  I  don't  keep  in  mind  what  he  said. 
klARY  GILLIS.  —  You,  maybe,  remember  the  story  he  gave  us  of 
one  Feeney  that  he  was  with  at  a  mountain  still  and  that 
made  an  assault  on  a  gauger. 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Feeney,  that  was  the  name—,  but 

what  signifies  that? 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  That's  right.     I'll  make  a  spancel  from  that 

story  will  bring  him  into  hiding  in  the  Currough. 
VIARGARET   RQONEY.  —  You  might  not.    It's  little  you  knmv 
the  twists  of  a  poet's  mind.    He  to  have  the  fit  of  wandering, 
it  is  round  the  wide  world  he  might  go. 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Hurry  on  now,  let  you  go  the  lower  road  and 
see  will  you  bring  him  any  better  than  myself,  (pushes  her). 
—  Go  on  now,  he  might  pass  and  go  on  unknownst  to  you! 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  I'll  not  be  three  minutes  going  down 

the  hill.     (Goes). 
MARY  GILLIS  (sitting  down).  —  That  you  may!     It's  the  hither 

road  he  is  coming! 
HANRAHAN    (coming  in,  head  down).  —  Isn't  it  a  terrible  place 
we  are  living  in  and  terrible  the  wickedness  of  the  whole 
world! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  What  is  it  ails  you,  Owen  Hanrahan? 
HANRAHAN.  —  People  to  be  breaking  all  the  laws  of  God  and 

giving  no  heed  to  the  beyond! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  likely  the  preaching  of  the  friar  put  those 

thoughts  athrough  your  head. 
HANRAHAN.  —  Murders  and  robberies  and  lust  and  neglecting 

the  mass! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Ah,  come  along  home  with  me  to  the  dinner. 
You  are  fasting  this  good  while  back. 


The     Little     Review 


HANRAHAN,  —  What  way  can  people  be  thinking  of  gluttony, 
'      and  the  terrors  of  the  grave  before  them. 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Come  on  now  to  the  little  house,  and  the  drop 
of  drink  will  put  such  thoughts  from  your  mind.  ' 

HANRAHAN.  —  Drink!  That  was  another  of  them!  Seven 
deadly  sins  in  all! 

MARY  GHXIS.  —  WTiat  call  has  a  poet  the  like  of  you  to  go  lis- 
tening to  a  missioner  stringing  talk?  You,  that  is  so  handy 
at  it  yourself.  . 

HANRAHAN.  —  A  lovely  saint  he  was!  He  came  from  foreign. 
To  let  fall  a  drop  of  scalding  water  on  your  foot  would  be 
bad  he  said,  or  to  lay  your  hand  on  a  hot  coal  on  the  floor; 
but,  to  die  with  any  big  sin  on  our  soul,  it  will  be  burning  for 
ever  and  ever,  and  that  burning  will  be  worse  than  any  burn- 
ing upon  earth.  To  say  that  he  did,  rising  up  his  hand.  The 
great  fear  he  put  on  me  was  of  eternity.  Oh,  he  was  a  darling 
man! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Ah,  that  is  the  way  that  class  to  be  beckoning 
flames  at  the  people,  or  what  way  would  they  get  their  liv- 
ing? Come  along  now  where  you  will  have  company  and 
funning. 

HANRAHAN.  —  Leave  touching  me!  I  have  no  mind  to  be  put 
away  from  my  holy  thoughts.  Three  big  mastiffs,  their  red 
gullets  open  and  burning  the  same  as  three  wax  candles! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Come  along,  I  tell  you,  to  the  comforts  of  the 
town. 

HANRAHAN.  —  Get  away,  you  hag,  before  I'll  lay  a  hand  on  you! 

MARY  GILLIS. — After  the  good  treatment  I  gave  you  this  five 
weeks  past,  beyond  any  lodger  was  in  the  house! 

HANRAHAN.  —  Be  off,  or  I'll  do  you  some  injury! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It's  kind  for  you  do  an  injury  on  me,  the  same 
as  you  did  on  the  man  that  was  sent  before  the  judge! 

HANRAHAN.  —  Who  was  that? 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Feeney  that  stuck  down  the  ganger. 

HANRAHAN.  —  Anyone  didn't  see  who  did  it!  He  was  brought 
before  no  judge! 

MARY  GlLLtS.  —  You  didn't  know  he  was  taken  and  charged  anr' 
brought  to  the  Tuam  Assizes? 

HANRAHAN.  —  They  could  have  no  proof  against  him.  It  was 
a  dark  cloudy  night. 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  That  is  what  they  are  saying.  It  was  in  no 
fair  way  it  was  made  known  who  did  it. 


The     Little     Review 


HANRAHAN.  —  Ah  what  did  he  do  but  put  up  his  fist  this  way 
.....  and  the  gauger  was  standing  where  you  are  supposing 
....  and  there  was  a  naggin  in  poor  Feeney's  hand  (stoops 
for  a  stone)  —  and  there  lit  a  stroke  on  him  (strikes  as  if 
at  her  —  It's  hard  sa:y  was  it  that  knocked  him  or  was  it 
the  Almighty  God. 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  There  is  another  thing  the  people  are  saying 

HANRAHAN.  —  What  is  that? 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  They  are  saying  there  was  another  man  along 
with  Feeney  at  the  bog-still. 

HANRAHAN.  —  What  harm  if  they  are  saying  that? 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  will  be  well  for  that  man  not  to  be  rambling 
the  countryside,  but  to  stop  here  in  the  shelter  of  the  town 
where  it  is  not  Imown.  It  is  likely  his  name  is  given  out.  the 
baronies  of  Galway  cind  to  the  merings  of  County  Mayo. 

HANRAHAN.  —  Little  I  care  they  to  know  I  was  in  it.  What 
could  they  lay  to  my  charge? 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  You  had  drink  taken.  You  have  no  recollec- 
tion what  you  said  in  the  spree-house  in  Monivea.  It  is 
the  name  of  an  informer  you  have  gained  in  those  districts, 
where  you  gave  out  the  account  of  Feeney's  deed,  in  the 
hearing  of  spies  or  of  Government  men. 

HANRAHAN.  ~  That  cannot  be  so!  An  informer!  That  would 
be  a  terrible  story! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  A  poor  case  they  are  saying,  you  to  be  roaming 
the  country  free  and  Feeney  under  chains  through  your 
fault. 

HANRAHAN.  —  An  informer!  I'll  go  give  myself  up  in  his  place! 
I'll  swear  it  was  I  did  it!  Maybe  I  did  too.  I  am  certain 
I  hit  him  a  hit  or  kick  that  loosed  the  patch  on  my  shoe. 
(holds  foot  up).    I'll  go  set  Feeney  free.  < 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  You  cannot  do  that.  He  is  gone  to  his  punish- 
ment where  he  was  convicted  of  assault  and  attempt  to  kill. 

HANRAHAN.  —  In  earnest? 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  much  he  escaped  the  death  of  the  rope.  It 
is  to  send  him  to  transportation  they  did. 

HANRAHAN.  —  The  Lord  save  us! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Sent  out  in  the  ship  with  thieves  and  vagabones 
to  Australia  or  Van  Dieman's  Land,  to  be  yoked  in  traces 
along  with  blacks  driving  a  plough  for  the  over-Government. 

HANRAHAN.  —  Transported  and  judged!     It  is  a  bad  story  for 


lo  The    Little    Review 


me  that  judgment  is!     And  to  be  brought  about  through  m- 

giving  out  too  much  talk! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Ah  come  along  and  get  a  needleful  of  porte 

and  we'll  have  a  good  evening  in  the  town. 
HANRAHAN.  —  There  will  be  no  good  evening  or  good  morrow 

come  to  me  for  ever!     Let  me  run  to  take  his  place  in  th 

ship  and  in  the  chains. 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Sure  it  sailed  away  yesterday.    It  is  ploughinj 

his  way  across  the  green  ocean  Michael  Feeney  should  be  a 

this  hour. 
HANRAHAN.  —  I'll  go  to  judgment  all  the  same!     They'll  set  m 

out  after  him  and  set  him  free! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Not  a  fear  of  them,  and  they  having  him  in  thei 

hand.     And  it's  likely  any^vay  the  ship  might  go  down  i: 

some  storm. 
HANRAHAN.  —  To  have  sent  a  man  to  his  chastisement  througl 

chattering!     That  is  not  of  the  nature  of  friendship.    Tha 

is  surely  one  of  the  seven  deadly  sins! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Sure  there  is  nothing  standing  to  you  onl; 

your  share  of  talk. 
HANRAHAN.  —  It  is  that  was  my  ruin!     It  would  be  better  fo 

me  be  born  without  it,  the  same  as  a  blessed  sheep!     It 

the  sin  of  the  tongue  is  surely  the  blackest  of  all!     A  ma 

that  died  with  drink  in  him,  the  missioner  was  saying,  th 

soul  would  sooner  stop  in  torment  a  thousand  years  tha 

come  back  to  the  body  that  made  it  so  unclean.    And  surel; 

my  soul  would  think  it  worse  again,  to  be  coming  under  th' 

sway  of  a  tongue  that  had  it  steered  to  the  mouths  of  th* 

burning  mountain,  that  are  said  to  be  the  door  of  hell! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  Ah  it  is  your  own  talk  had  always  pleasantnes 

on  it — come  on  now — the  people  love  to  see  you  travellin; 

through  the  town. 
HANRAHAN.  —  It  is  the  tongue  that  does  be  giving  out  lies  am 

spreading  false  reports  and  putting  the  weighty  word  on 

neighbour,  till  a  character  that  was  as  white  as  lime  wil 

turn  to  be  black  as  coal ! 
MARY  GILLIS.  —  No  but  good  words  yourself  does  be  puttili| 

out.    Whoever  you  praised  was  well  praised. 
HANRAHAN.  —  A  cross  word  in  this  house,  and  a  quarrel  out  o 

it  in  the  next  house,  and  fighting  in  the  streets  from  tha 

again,  till  the  whole  world  wide  is  at  war  .  The  man  tha 


The    Little    Review  ii 

would  make  a  gad  for  the  tongue  would  be  out  far  beyond 
Alexander  that  laid  one  around  all  the  kingdoms  of  the 
world! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  the  roads  would  be  lonely  without  the 
sound  of  your  own  songs. 

HANRAHAN.  —  To  make  silence  in  the  roads  for  ever  would  be 
a  better  task  than  every  Orpheus,  and  he  playing  harpstrings 
to  the  flocks  I 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  not  yourself  could  keep  silence  in  the  world 
without  you  would  be  a  ghost. 

HANRAHAN.  —  My  poor  Feeney!  He  that  wore  out  the  night 
making  still  whiskey  would  put  courage  into  armies  of  men, 
and  the  hares  of  the  mountain  gathered  around  him  looking 
on.  I  could  cry  down  my  eyes,  he  at  this  time  in  the  black 
hole  of  a  vessel  you  couldn't  hardly  go  into  head  and  heels, 
among  rats  and  every  class  of  ravenous  thing!  Have  you  ere 
a  knife  about  you  or  a  sword  or  a  dagger,  that  you'll  give  it 
to  me  to  do  my  penance,  till  I'll  cut  the  tongue  out  from  my 
head  and  bury  it  under  the  hill! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Ah,  come  along  and  do  your  penance  the  same 
as  any  other  one,  saying  a  rosary  alongside  your  bed. 

HANRAHAN.  —  I'll  go  no  more  into  the  room  with  lodgers  and 
strangers  and  dancers  and  youngsters  enjoying  music.  I  will 
out  my  time  in  this  cabin  of  a  saint,  shedding  tears  un- 
knownst  to  the  world,  hearing  no  word  and  speaking  no  word 
will  be  putting  my  repentance  astray.  There  is  great  safety 
in  silence!  It  will  cut  off  the  world  and  all  of  sins  at  the 
one  stroke. 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  not  yourself  could  keep  from  the  talk  with- 
out you  would  be  dumb. 

HANRAHAN.  —  So  I  will  be  dumb  and  live  in  dumbness,  if  I  have 
my  mind  laid  to  it!  I  will  make  an  oath  with  myself  (puts 
up  hands)  by  the  red  heat  of  anger  and  by  the  hard  strength 
of  the  wind  I  will  speak  no  word  to  any  living  person  through 
the  length  of  a  year  and  a  day!  I  will  earn  Feeney 's  pardon 
doing  that!    I'll  be  praying  for  him  on  all  my  beads! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Ah,  before  the  year  is  out  he  will  have  his  es- 
cape made,  or  maybe  have  done  some  crime  will  earn  him 
pimishment,  whether  or  no  without  any  blame  upon  your- 
self. It  will  fail  you  to  stop  in  this  wilderness.  You  were 
always  fond  of  life. 


4 

12                              The     Little     Review 
^ 

HANRAHAN  (sitting  down  and  taking  off  boots).  —  Bring  away" 
my  shoes  to  some  safe  place  to  the  end  of  my  penance,  that 
I  will  not  be  tempted  to  break  away!  Mind  them  well  till 
I  will  be  wanting  them  again. 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  a  big  fool  you  are  and  a  cracked  thief  and 
a  blockhead  and  a  headstrong  ignorant  man ! 

HANRAHAN.  —  I  am  not  in  this  place  for  wrastling!  It  is  good 
back  answers  I  could  give  you,  if  it  wasn't  that  I  am  dumb! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  I'm  in  no  dread  of  your  answers!  I'd  put  cur- 
ses out  of  my  own  mouth  as  quick  as  another  the  time  I 
would  be  vexed! 

HANRAHAN.  —  Get  out  now  of  this!  The  devil  himself  couldn't 
do  his  repentance  with  the  noise  and  the  chat  of  you! 
(Threatens  her). 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  \Vhisper  now,  one  thing  only  and  I'll  go. 

HANRAHAN.  —  Hurry  on  so,  and  say  what  is  it. 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  What  place  did  you  put  the  keg  of  still-whiskey 
you  were  saying  you  brought  away  at  the  time  Feeney  ran, 
the  ganger  being  stretched  on  the  bog? 

HANRAHAN.  —  What  way  can  I  whisper  it,  and  I  under  an  oath 
to  be  dumb! 

MARY  GILLIS.— Is  it  in  the  bog  you  hid  it?  Or  within  a  ditch 
or  a  drain.  Let  you  beckon  your  hand  at  me,  the  time  I'll 
give  out  the  right  place  and  you'll  not  break  your  promise 
and  your  oath.  Under. a  dung-heap  maybe....  i^et  you 
make  now  some  sign.  ... 

HANRAHAN.  (seizing  stick  and  rushing  at  her).  —  Sign  is  it? 
Here's  signs  for  you!  My  grief  that  I  cannot  break  my 
oath ! 

MARY  GILLIS  (who  has  rushed  off,  looking  back).  —  Your  oath 
is  it?  You  may  believe  me  telling  you,  it  will  fail  you  for 
one  day  only  to  keep  a  gad  upon  your  tongue.    (Goes). 

(HANRAHAN  shakes  fist  at  her  and  sits  down.  Rocks  himself  and 
moons. 

A  man  with  basket  or  sack)  of  seaweed  comes  in  and  looks  at  him, 
timidly). 

COEY.  —  Fine  day!  (HANRAHAN  takes  no  notice).  Fine  day! 
(louder)  —  Fine  day,  the  Lord  be  praised! (HAN- 
RAHAN scowls)  What  is  on  you?  FINE  DAY!  Is  it  deaf 
you  are Is  it  maybe  after  taking  drink  .yon  are? 


The    Little    Review  i^; 


To  put  your  head  down  in  the  spring  well  below  would  may- 
be serve  you.  (HANRAHAN  shakes  head  indignantly).  — 
Is  it  that  you  are  after  being  bet?  A  puck  on  the  poll  is  apt 
to  put  confusion  in  the  mind.  (Another  indignant  shake) 
Tell  me  out  now,  what  is  on  you  or  what  happened  you 
at  all? 

lANRAHAN  gets  up.  ...Gives  some  dumb  show  as  he  did  to  MARY 
GILLIS,  stoops,  picks  up  stone,  rushes  as  if  to  threaten 
COEY. 

ZOEY.  —  The  Lord  be  between  us  and  harml  It  is  surely  a  wild 
man  is  in  it!     (He  throws  down  basket  and  rushes  off  right). 

HANRAHAN.  —  Ah,  what  is  it  ails  you?    That  you  may  never  be 

better  this  side  of  Christmas What  am  I  doing? 

Is  it  speaking  in  spite  of  myself  I  am?  What  at  all  can  I  do! 
I  to  speak,  I  am  breaking  my  oath;  and  I  not  to  speak,  I 
have  the  world  terrified,     (sits  down  dejectedly,  then  starts) 

—  What  is  that?    A  thorn  that  ran  into  me a  thorn 

bush  ....  It  is.  Heaven  put  it  in  my  way.  There  is  no  sm 
or  no  harm  to  be  talking  with  a  bush,  that  is  a  fashion 
among  poets.  Oh,  my  little  bush,  it  is  a  saint  I  am 
out  and  out!  It  is  a  man  without  blame  I  will  oe  from 
this  time!  To  go  through  the  whole  gamut  of  the  heat  and 
of  the  frost  with  no  person  to  be  annoying  till  I  get  a  fit 
of  talk  and  be  letting  out  wicked  words,  that  is  surely  the 
road  will  reach  to  Paradise.  It  is  a  right  plan  I  made  and 
a  right  penance  I  put  on  myself.  As  I  converse  now  with 
yourself,  the  same  as  with  a  living  person,  so  every  living 
person  I  may  hold  talk  with,  and  my  penance  ended,  I  will 
think  them  to  be  as  harmless  as  a  little  whitethorn  bush.  It 
is  a  holy  life  I  will  follow,  and  not  to  be  annoyed  with  the 
humans  of  the  world  that  do  be  prattling  and  prating,  carry- 
ing lies  here  and  there,  putting  trouble  in  people's  mind,  lavish 
in  tale-bearing  and  talk!  It  is  a  great  sin  from  God  Al- 
mighty to  be  ballyragging  and  draAving  scandal  on  one  an- 
other, rising  quarrels  and  rows!  I  declare  to  honest  good- 
ness the  coneys  and  the  hares  are  ahead  of  most  Christians 
on  the  road  to  heaven  where  they  have  not  the  power  to 
curse  and  damn  or  to  do  mischief  through  flatteries  ana  chat- 
terings  and  coaxings  and  jestings  and  jokings  and  riddles 
and  fables  and  fancies  and  vanities  and  backbitings  and 
mockeries  and  mumblings  and  grumblings  and  treachery  and 


14  The    Little    Review 


false  reports!  It  is  free  I  am  now  from  the  screechings  and 
vain  jabberings  of  the  world  in  this  holy  quiet  place  that  is 
all  one  nearly  with  the  blessed  silence  of  heaven!  (He  takes 
beads). 

(COEY  and  MRS.  COEY  come  on  and  look  at  him  from  behind). 

COEY.  —  A  wild  man  I  tell  you  he  is,  wild  and  shy. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  Wording  a  prayer  he  would  seen  to  be,  letting 
deep  sighs  out  of  himself.  A  wild  man  would  be  apt  to  be  a 
pagan  or  an  unbeliever. 

COEY.  —  I  tell  you  he  rose  up  and  made  a  plunge  at  me  and  ruz 
a  stone  over  my  poll.  If  it  wasn't  for  getting  the  bag  I  left 
after  me,  I  couldn't  go  anear  him.  It's  a  good  thought  I  had 
taking  out  of  it  the  two  shillings  I  got  for  the  winkles  I  sold 
from  the  strand,  and  giving  them  into  your  own  charge 
Take  care  would  he  turn  and  make  a  run  at  me! 

MRS.  COEY.  —  He  is  no  wild  man  but  a  spoiled  priest  or  a  crazed 
saint  or  ^ome  thing  of  the  sort. 

COEY.  —  Striving  to  put  curses  on  me  he  was,  but  it  failed  him 
to  bring  them  out.    It  might  be  that  he  was  born  a  dummy 
into  the  world,  and  drivelling  from  his  birth  out. 
(HANRAHAN  listens). 

MRS.  COEY.  —  Would  you  say  now  would  he  be  Cassidy  Bawn,  the 
troubled  Friar,  that  the  love  of  a  woman  put  astray  in  his 
wits? 

COEY.  —  A  half-fool  I  would  say  him  to  be.    But  it  might  be  that 
he  has  a  pain  in  the  jaw  or  a  tooth  that  would  want  to  be 
drawn.    Or  is  it  that  the  tongue  was  cut  from  him  by  somcK 
j)erson  had  a  cause  against  him. 
(HANRAHAN  turns  indignantly  and  puts  tongue  out). 

MRS.  COEY.  —  He  is  not  maimed  or  ailing.  It  is  long  I  was  covet- 
ing to  see  such  a  one  that  would  have  power  to  show  miracles 
and  wonders  or  to  do  cures  with  a  gospel  or  put  away  the 
wildfire  with  herbs. 

COEY.  —  Let  him  show  a  miracle  or  do  something  out  of  the  way, 
and  ni  believe  it. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  If  he  does,  it  is  to  myself  he  will  show  it.  I  am 
the  most  one  is  worthy. 

COEY.  —  Have  a  care.    He  is  about  to  turn  around. 

MRS.  COEY  (sitting  down).  —  Let  me  put  a  decent  appearance  on 
myself  before  he  will  take  notice  of  me.  (begins  putting 
on  boots). 


T  het    Lit  tie     Review  15 

COEY.  —  A  pair  of  shoes!     What  way  did  they  come  into  your 

hand? 

MRS.  COEY.  —  It  is  that  I  found  them  on  the  road 

COEY.  —  They  are  belonging  so  to  some  person  will  come  looking 

for  them. 
MRS.  COEY.  —  They  are  not  but  to  myself  they  belong  ...  it  is 

that  they  were  sent  to  me  by  messenger. 
COEY.  —  And  who  would  bestow  you  shoes,  you  that  never  put  a 
shoe  or  a  boot  on  you  and  snow  and  frost  3  feet  on  the 

ground!  and  you  after  going  barefoot  through  the  snow  and 

the  frost  of  two  score  of  years! 
MRS.  COEY.  —  There's  plenty  to  bestow  them  to  me.     Haven't 

I  a  first  cousin  went  harvesting  out  in  England  where  there  is 

maybe  shovel  fulls  of  gold. 

(HANRAHAN  comes  across  quickly,  seizes  boots  angrily 

and  takes  them  away,  shaking  his  fist  at  her). 
COEY  (retreating).  —  There  is  coming  on  him  a  fit  of  frenzy! 

Run  now,  Let  you  rtm! 

(HANRAHAN  seizes  and  shakes  her). 
MRS.  COEY  (on  her  knees).  —  Oh  leave  your  hand  off  of  me, 

blessed  father!     I'll  confess  all!     Oh  it  is  a  miracle  is  after 

being  worked  on  me!     (Another  shake)    A  miracle  to  put 

shame  on  me  where  I  told  a  lie,  may  God  forgive  me!  on 

the  head  of  the  boots! 
COEY.  —  I  was  thinking  it  was  lying  you  were. 
MRS.  COEY.  —  How  well  he  knew  it,  the  dear  and  the  holy  man! 

He  that  can  read  the  hidden  thoughts  of  my  heart  as  the 

same  as  if  written  on  my  brow! 
COEY.  —  Is  it  to  steal  them  you  did? 
MRS.  COEY  (to  HANRAHAN).  —  Do  not  look  at  me  so  terrible 

wicked,  and  I'll  make  my  confession  the  same  as  if  it  was 

the  Bishop  in  it! 
COEY.  —  Is  it  that  I  am  wedded  with  a  thief  and  a  robber? 
MRS.  COEY.  —  I  am  not  a  thief  but  to  tell  a  lie  I  did,  laying 

down  that  I  got  them  from  my  first  cousin,  where  I  bought 

them  from  a  woman  going  the  road. 
COEY.  —  That's  another  lie,  where  would  you  get  the  money?^ 
MRS.  COEY.  —  Your  own  two  shillings  I  gave  for  them  that  you-. 

put  in  my  care  a  while  ago.    Take  the  shoes,  holy  saint,  for 

111  lay  no  hand  on  them  any  more.     There  never  was  the- 

like  of  it  of  a  start  ever  taken  out  of  me. 


: ^ 

i6  The    Little    Review 


COEY.  —  You  asked  a  miracle  and  you  got  a  miracle  ybull  db 
forget  from  this  day.     (takes  off  hat)  I'll  never  go  agaiit 
such  things  from  this  out  .  A  good  saint  he  is,  by  helll 
(MARGARET  ROONEY  comes  on,  HANRAHAN  catchin 
sight  of  her  flings  doivn  boots  and  crouches  behind  bush).' 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Did  you  see  anyone  passing  the  road 

COEY.  —  Not  a  one. 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  I  am  in  search  of  a  friend  I  have,  tba 
is  gone  travelling  the  road. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  There  is  not  a  one  in  this  place  but  the  blessfr 
saint  is  saying  out  prayers  abroad  under  the  bush. 

MARGARET  RONEY.  —  I  knew  no  saint  in  this  place.  WTia 
sort  is  he? 

COEY.  —  You  would  say  him  to  be  a  man  that  has  not  a  great  de» 
of  talk. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  He  is  a  great  saint;  he  is  so  saintly  as  that  then 
couldn't  be  saintlier  than  what  he  is.  He  living  in  the  wilde 
erness  on  nuts  and  the  berries  of  the  bush,  and  his  two  jaws* 
being  bloomy  all  the  time. 

COEY.  —  He  to  be  known,  the  people  will  come  drawing  from  thi 
to  Dublin  till  he  will  have  them  around  him  in  droves. 

MARGARET  ROONEY  (seising  boots).  —  What  way  did  you  ge 
those  shoes? 

COEY.  —  It  was  the  saint  threw  them  there  in  that  place. 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  What  happened  the  man  that  owneo 
them? 

MRS.  COEY  (pointing  to  bush).  —  Sorra  one  of  me  knows.  Go 
crave  to  the  saint  under  the  bush  to  give  out  knowledge  ol 
tnat.  It's  himself  should.  He  beckoned  the  hand  at  me  z 
while  ago  and  told  me  all  that  ever  I  did. 

MARGARET  ROONEY  (Goes  to  back  of  bush  but  HANRAHAN^ 
moves  round  from  her).  I  ask  yoar  pardon  father,  but  will 
you  tell  me  what  happened  the  man  I  am  in  search  of  and 
what  way  did  his  shoes  come  in  this  place?  I  am  certain  he 
would  not  part  them  unless  he  would  be  plundered  andj^ 
robbed.    Tell  me  where  can  I  find  him. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  Do  not  be  annoying  him  now.  It  is  likely  he  is 
holding  talk  with  heaven. 

MARGARET  ROONEY  (to  COEY).  —  It  is  maybe  you  yourself 
took  the  shoes. 


i 


The    Little    Review 


17 


Drawing  by  Max  Weber 


20 


The     Little     Review 


Carving  by  Walt  Kuhn 


The    Little    Review 


21 


!^.U. 


Drawing  by  Marie  Laurencin 


24 


The    Little     Review 


L_j.'(^  >i*«i««-AA^ 


Drawing  by  Henri  Caudier-Brzeska 


The    Little    Review 


25 


Drawing  by  Andre  D.  Segonzac 


28 


The     Little    Review 


Engraving  by  Arthur  B.  Davies 


The    Little    Review 


29 


The  Starry  Sky,  by  Windham  Lewis 


32 


The     Lit  tl  e     Review 


Drawing  by  Jules  Pascin 


The    Little     Review 


COEY.  —  Let  you  stop  putting  a  stain  on  my  character.     1  that 
never  put  a  farthing  astray  on  anyone! 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  What  at  all  can  I  do  to  know  is  he  liv- 
ing or  dead.  Or  is  he  gone  walking  the  round  world  bare- 
foot! 

MRS.  COEY.  '■ —  Hurry  on  and  get  news  from  that  man  is  under 
the  bush  before  there  might  angels  come  would  give  him  a 
horn  and  rise  him  through  the  sky! 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Saint  or  no  saint.  I'll  drag  an  answer 
out  of  him! 

(She  goes  to  him,  he  moves  aivay  from  her  round   bush. 
She  takes  hold  of  his  shouldersQ. 

COEY.  —  Ah  there  will  thunder  fall  on  her! 

(HAN  RAH  AN  tries  to  escape  hut  MARGARET  ROONEY 
holds  him  and  looks  at  his  face). 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Is  it  you,  Owen,  is  in  it!  Oh  what  is 
it  happened  at  all! 

COEY.  —  Will  you  hearken  to  her  speaking  to  him  as  if  he  was 
some  common  man. 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Tell  me  now  what  parted  you  from 

your  shoes  and  are  you  sound  and  well? .  Answer 

me  now I  think  you  very  dark  not  speaking  to  me. 

It  would  be  no  great  load  on  you  to  say  "God  bless  you"! 
(He  keeps  moving  on,  she  holding  and  folloiving  him). 
Is  it  your  spirit  I  arn  looking  on,  or  your  ghost! 

MRS.  COEY.  —  Look  at  how  he  will  not  let  his  eye  rest  upon  a 
woman,  the  holy  man! 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Get  him  to  speak  one  word  to  me  and 
you  will  earn  by  blessing!  ....  Do  you  not  recognize  me, 
Owen,  and  I  standing  in  the  pure  daylight!  ....  i)on't 
now  be  making  strange,  but  stretch  over  to  the  road  to  be 
chatting  and  talking  like  you  used 

COEY.  —  He  has  lost  the  talk,  I  am  telling  you.  It  is  but  by  signs 
he  makes  things  known. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  It  is  that  the  people  of  this  district  are  not  worthy 
to  hear  his  voice. 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Is  it  that  you  went  wild  and  mad,  find- 
ing the  olace  so  lonesome?  What  at  all  but  that,  would 
cause  you  to  go  dumb  in  the  heel? 

MRS.  COEY.  —  Have  some  shame  on  you?  Can't  you  see  he  is 
not  acquainted  with  you  at  all. 


34  The     Little     Review 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Did  there  some  disease  fall  upon  you, 
or  some  sickness?     Why  wouldn't  you  come  back  with  me. 

and  I  would  tend  you  and  find  you  a  cure Let  you 

answer  me  back,  if  it  is  but  to  spit  at  me!    Is  it  that  I  vexed 
you  in  any  way,  and  the  stocking  I  mended  with  kind  worsted 

covering  your  foot  yet (He  draws  it  hack).    Is  it  to 

break  my  heart,  you  will?  ....  Is  it  to  put  ridicule  on  me 
and  to  me  making  a  mockery  of  me,  you  are?  Letting  on  to 
be  dumb?  (He  weeps)  I  had  great  love  for  him  and  I 
thought  he  had  love  for  me.  (She  turns  away.  He  is  stretch- 
ing out  his  arms  to  her  when  MARY  GILLIS  comes  on. 
HANRAHAN  breaks  away,  making  a  grab  at  hoots,  he  sits 
down  to  ^ut  them  on,  sideways,  making  a  face  at  her). 
Is  that  yourself,  Mary  Gillis.  It  is  in  the  nick  of  time  you 
are  come. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  Give  me  back  now  the  two  shillings  I  gave  you  for 
that  pair  of  shoes, 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Will  you  draw  down  on  these  fools  of 
the  world  that  this  is  no  saint  but  Owen  Hanrahan. 

MRS.  COEY.  —  No,  but  she  is  under  delusions!  A  man  from  God 
he  is!  Miracles  he  can  do,  and  he  living,  and  at  the  time 
he'll  be  dead  there  is  apt  to  be  great  virtue  in  his  bones. 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Tell  them,  can't  you.  that  he  is  Owen 
Hanrahan? 

MARY  GILLIS  (puts  arms  akimbo).  —  And  what  is  it  makes  you 
say  this  to  be  Owen  Hanrahan? 

(MRS.  COEY  picks  up  triumphantly  the  string  of  herrings 
she  droi)s). 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  ~  Are  you  gone  cracked  along  with  them? 

COEY  and  MRS.  COEY.  —  That's  the  chat!     That's  the  chat! 

MARY  GILLtS.  —  There  will  a  judgment  come  on  you.  Margy 
Rooney,  for  putting  on  a  holy  Christian,  is  dwelling  in  the 
blessed  bed  of  a  saint,  the  name  of  a  vagabone  heathen  poet 
does  be  filling  the  long  roads  with  his  follies  and  his  lies! 
(He  grimaces). 

COEY.  —  That's  right!  That's  right!  A  great  shame  the  name 
of  this  holy  friar  to  be  mixed  with  any  sinful  at  all. 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Is  it  the  whole  world  has  gone  raging 
wild? 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Hanrahan  the  poet  is  it?  God  bless  your 
health!     That  is  a  man  should  not  be  spoken  of  in  this 


T he    Little    Review  35 


saintly  place.  He  is  the  greatest  schemer  ever  God  created! 
There  is  no  beat  to  him!  Putting  lies  on  his  own  father 
and  mother  in  Cappaghtagle ! ,  Letting  his  father  be  buried 
from  the  poorhouse  that  was  gaoled  for  sheepstealing!  Sure 
that  one  would  hang  the  Pope! 
(HANRAHAN  makes  faces  at  her  again). 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Give  over  now  cutting  him  down! 
(tries  to  Mit  hand  over  her  mouth.) 

MARY  GILLIS  (freeing  herself).  —  It  is  not  dumb  I  am  myself, 
the  Lord  be  praised,  the  same  as  this  holy  man.  And  I  say, 
if  you  must  put  a  name  on  him,  let  it  be  the  name  of  some 
poet  worth  while,  such  as  Carolan  or  Virgil  or  Sweeney  from 
Connemara.  It  is  Sweeney  that  is  great!  (MARGARET 
ROONEY  tries  to  stop  her,  but  she  backs  and  goes  on.) 
It  is  himself  can  string  words  through  the  night-time.  But 
as  to  poor  Owen  Hanrahan,  it  is  inhuman  songs  he  makes. 
Unnatural  they  are,  without  mirth  or  loveliness  or  joy  or 
delight. 

(HANRAHAN  writhes  with  anguish  and  makes  threatening 
signs) 

You'd  laugh  your  life  out,  listening  to  the  way  he  was  put 
down  one  time  by  Sweeney,  the  Connemara  boy! 
(HANRAHAN  throws  himself  down  and  bites  at  the  grass.) 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  If  you  are  Hanrahan,  let  you  put  her 
down  under  a  poet's  curse.  And  if  you  are  a  saint,  let  you 
make  a  grasshopper  of  her  with  the  power  of  a  saint! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  is  bawneen  flannel  and  clean,  that  dumb 
friar  is  wearing;  but  as  to  Owen  Hanrahan,  it  is  a  stirabout 
poet  he  is,  and  greasy  his  coat  is,  with  all  the  leavings  he 
brings  away  from  him  and  he  begging  his  dinner  from  door 
to  door. 

(HANRAHAN  gets  up  and  rushes  at  her.  She  shrieks  and 
runs  right.  She  knocks  against  FEENEY  who  is  coming  on. 
HANRAHAN  stops  short  and  goes  quickly  into  cabin.) 

FEENEY.  —  Mind  yourself,  woman!  You  all  to  had  be  knocked, 
barging  and  fighting  and  raising  rings  around  you!  I'll 
make  you  ax  my  pardon  so  sure  as  my  name  is  Feeney! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  Michael  Feeney  is  it?    (He  nods.) 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  What  is  it  brings  you  here? 

FEENEY.  —  This  is  a  place  if  you'd  go  astray,  you'd  go  astray 
very  quick  in  it.    Crosscutting  over  the  mountain  I  was,  till 


36  T  h  c    L  i  1 1 1  e    R  ev  i  eiv 

I'd  face  back  to  my  own  place  near  Tuam.    And  I  got  word 

there  is  a  friar  from  foreign  here  in  some  place,  giving  out 

preachings  and  absolutions. 
MRS.  COEY.  —  No.  but  a  holy  man  that  is  in  the  cabin  beyond. 

A  great  saint  he  is,  out  and  out! 
FEENEY.  —  That'll  serve  me  as  well,  where  I  missed  attending 

mass  this  fortnight  back,  where  I  was travelling  .... 

In  very  backward  places,  I  was.     It  is  home  I  am  facing" 

now,  and  I'd  sooner  give  out  my  confession  to  a  stranger 

than  to  our  own  priest,  might  be  questioning  me  where  is  my 

little  mountain  still.     He  being  a  Father  Matthew  man,  that 

couldn't  so  much  as  drink  water  out  of  a  glass  but  from  a 

cup. 
COEY.  —  You  did  well  coming  to  himself  that  can  put  no  question 

to  you  at  all. 
MRS.  COEY.  —  My  grief  that  he  cannot  word  out  a  rosary  or  give 

us  newses  of  the  fallen  angels,  being  dumb  and  bereft .  of 

speech. 
FEENEY.  —  That  will  suit  me  well,  so  long  as  his  ears  are  not 

closed,  and  that  he  can  get  me  free  from  going  to  confes- 
sion for  another  quarter  of  a  year  on  this  side  of  St.  Martin's 

Day. 

(He  kneels  at  door.) 
MARGARET  ROONEY  (trying  to  move  him  away).  —  Do  not  be 

■pushing  on  him  where  he  might  be  in  a  sleep  or  a  slumber. 
MRS.  COEY  (aivcd).  —  It  is  maybe  away  in  a  trance  he  might  be, 

and  the  angels  coming  around  him.     It  is  in  that  way  hi* 

miracles  and  wonders  come  to  him. 
COEY  (getting  behind  him).  —  Mind  yourself.      He  might  likely-1 

burst  demented  out  from  his  trance  and  destroy  the  world' 

with  one  twist  of  the  hand. 
MRS.  COEY.  —  He  is  bended  now,  holy  father.     Be  so  liberal  as: 

to  reach  your  hand  for  the  good  of  his  soul.  \ 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  It  would  maybe  be  right,  the  whole  of  us  toj 

go  in  and  see  is  there  a  weakness  come  upon  him  with  his"* 
fast. 

(A  hand  is  hurriedly  stretched  out.) 
FEENEY  (having  knelt  a  moment  shouts).  —  What  is  that  I  see! 
I    recognise   that   yellow   patch!      Owen   Hanrahan's  boot! 
(jumps  up  and  drags)    Come  out  now,  out  of  that! 
MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  Let  you  leave  dragging  him!     (tries 
to  stop  him.) 


The    Little    Review  37 


FEENEY  (dragging  him  out  and  amused).  —  Is  it  yourself,  Owen 
Hanrahan,  is  setting  up  to  be  no  less  than  a  saint?  Is  it 
for  sport  or  for  gain  you  are  working  miracles  and  giving  out 
benedictions? 

HANRAHAN.  —  Is  it  not  transported  you  are! 

FEENEY.  —  Why  should  I  be  transported,  without  you  would  be 
wishful  of  it? 

HANRAHAN.  —  Taken  and  judged  and  sent  out  to  Van  Dieman's 
Land! 

FEENEY,  —  It  is  seemingly  well  pleased  you  would  be,  I  to  be  there, 
and  my  neck  in  the  hemp  along  with  ilt. 

PIANRAHAN.  —  Is  that  the  thanks  you  are  giving  me,  for  doing 
penance  under  dumbness,  on  the  head  of  you  being  gaoled 
in  a  ship! 

FEENEY.  —  Little  you'd  care,  I  to  linger  my  life  out  on  a  tread- 
mill or  withering  in  a  cell! 

HANRAHAN.  —  Don't  I  tell  you  I  am  working  out  my  repentance 
with  the  dint  of  my  grief,  where  it  was  through  my  talk  you 
are  made  a  prisoner,  and  brought  to  the  Court,  and  let  away 
under  chains,  and  blacks  maybe  beating  you  with  whips. 

I'EENEY.  —  What  are  you  raving  about,  making  me  out  a  rogue 
and  putting  that  stain  on  my  name,  I  that  never  stood  in  a 
court,  or  a  dock,  or  was  brought  away  in  a  ship,  or  e'-er 
rattled  a  chain,  or  put  my  head  upon  a  block! 
vNRAHAN.  —  Having  the  name  of  an  informer  put  on  me  for 
your  sake! 

FEENEY.  —  Is  it  that  you  are  after  being  an  inf6rmer?  Givinrf 
out  to  the  world  the  hidden  bog-hole  where  I  have  my  still! 

HANRAHAN.  —  I  did  not! 

r  EENEY.  —  And  you  lurking  in  a  cleft  and  letting  on  to  be  word- 
ing your  beads!  But  I'll  knock  satisfaction  out  of  you. 
I'll  have  you  baulked! 

HANRAHAN.  —  It  is  likely  the  ganger  gave  it  out! 

FEENEY.  —  He  wouldn't  put  the  people  against  him,  saying  chat, 
a,  neighbour  made  me  out  and  told  me  he  swore  he  disre- 
membered  all  that  happened.  Death  and  destruction  on  me, 
but  he's  a  more  honourable  man  than  yourself!- 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  What  have  you  against  one  another  so? 

FEENEY.  —  Blessed  if  I  know. 

HANRAHAN.  —  If  I  haven't  anything  against  him,  there  are 
others  I  have  it  against,  (to  MARY  GILLIS)  Let  you  be 
ashamed  and  under  grief,  for  the  way  you  have  us  made 


38  The    Little    Review 


fools  of,  and  earning  my  forgiveness  to  the  end  of  your  life 
It  is  up  here  in  this  cabin  yourself  has  a  right  to  stop  for  tfc 
centuries,  sleeping  in  your  pelt  and  scraping  your  bare  fe< 
on  the  rock,  like  myself  was  doing,  and  speechless,  and  witl 
out  defence,  the  same  as  I  was  myself,  through  the  story  yo 
made  up  and  the  lies! 

MARGARET  ROONEY.  —  That's  the  chat,  Owen!  That  is  you: 
self  is  come  back  to  us! 

MRS.  COEY.  —  Well  now,  for  a  saint  of  silence  hasn't  he  a  te. 
rible  deal  of  talk! 

MARY  GILLIS.  —  As  savage  as  a  wasp  out  of  a  bottle,  he  is.  H 
talk  is  seven  times  sharper  than  before!  and  a  holy  terrc 
to  the  whole  world.  I'll  go  call  to  the  true  friar  at  tl 
Chapel  to  say  are  you  not  bound  to  silence  for  a  year  ai; 
a  day  by  your  oath ! 

HANRAHAN.  —  (Putting  arm  round  MARGARET  ROONEY  an 
shaking  fist  at  MARY  GILLIS  and  picking  up  coat)  You  wi 
will  you?  Well  I'm  not  bound!  How  would  I  know,  when 
took  the  oath  in  my  lone  there  would  be  schemers  comir 
around  me  challenging  and  annoying  me.  It  is  yourself  th; 
broke  the  bond,  following  after  me!  And  you  have  a  gre; 
wrong  done  to  me.  The  next  time  I  will  take  an  oath  of  s 
lence  it  is  in  the  market  square  I  will  take  it,  the  night  befo: 
the  spring  fair,  and  the  pigs  squealing  from  every  paling  ar 
every  car,  and  hawkers  bawling  sooner  than  to  be  narrowc 
up  on  a  crag  where  I  cannot  make  my  esscape  from  tl 
tongue  of  a  woman  that  is  more  lasting  than  the  sole  of  ir 
shoe!  It's  bad  behaviour  you  showed,  with  your  lies  and 
great  shame  for  you,  and  you  being  a  widow  and  advance 
out  a  while!  It's  a  great  wonder  the  Lord  to  stand  the  vi 
lainy  is  in  you!  I'll  make  you  go  easy!  The  time  you  n 
me  out  of  my  senses,  tearing  away  my  character*,  and  I  b 
ing  dumb,  I  had  myself  promised  I  would  make  a  wor 
wonder  of  you  in  the  bye  and  bye  and  my  year  and  a  ds 
being  passed!  You  disgrace,  you!  The  curse  of  my  hea  l' 
on  you!  Go  on  now,  you  withered  sloe  bush,  you  cranl 
crab  fish,  ou  hag,  you  rap,  you  vagabone!  May  your  da 
not  thrive  with  you.  and  that  you  may  be  seven  hundrf 
times  crosser  this  time  next  year,  and  it  is  good  curses  I'll  I 
making,  and  the  first  I'll  put  on  you  is  the  curse  of  dunri 
ness,  for  that  is  the  last  curse  of  all! 

THE  END 


The    Little    Revie IV  39 


THE  SOUL'S  AWAKENING 
J.  R.  W  h  i  t  e 

I  am  as  drunk  as  drunk 

And  in  the  ebb  of  that  last  wave  of  wine 

I  did  opine  that  I  had  sunk. 

I  am  as  drunk  as  drunk 

But  on  the  crest  of  this  last  wave  of  drink 

I  really  think  I  can  not  sink 

So  I  will  rest. 

IMAGINARY    LETTERS 

VI 

(Walter  Villerant  to  Mrs.  Bland  Burn) 
Ezra  Pound 

MY  DEAR  LYDIA: 
Levine  is  a  clever  man.  Yes,  "of  course",  of  course  I  agree 
with  you.  He  is  a  clever  man.  He  is  constantly  being  referred  to, 
by  the  Cincinnati  papers,  as  the  "brains  behind  the  single-tax  move- 
ment in  England",  or  the  "brains  behind"  the  neo-vegetarians,  or 
the  "brains  behind"  the  reformed  simple-lifers.  Were  he  in  France 
he  would  undoubtedly  get  himself  referred  to  as  the  brains  behind 
the  Claudel  pseudo-romancatholocoes.  All  things  are  grist  to  his 
mill.  He  knows  the  psychological  moment:  i.e.,  when  a  given  idea 
or  "form"  will  fetch  the  maximum  price  per  thousand.  I  don't 
wonder  William  wants  you  to  get  rid  of  him. 

There  is  no  reason  why  William  should  see  him,  there  is  no  rea- 
son why  William  should  not  punch  his  face  in  an  orgy  of  sensuous 
gratification,  there  is  no  reason  why  William  should  not  kick  him 
down  stairs.  There  is  no  reason  why  any  one  should  see  him,  or  hear 
him,  or  endure  him.    And  there  is  no  reason  why  I  should  not  see 


40  T  h  c    Li  1 1  le    Rev  i  ew 


him.    Besides  he  once  procured  me  £j2.    I  use  the  word  "procur 
with  intention.     It   applies — temperamentally   it  applies   to  all 
his  acts:  does  he  write,  does  he  commission  an  article,  it  is  all, 
some  way,  procuration. 

On  tlie  whole,  I  do  not  even  dislike  him.  He  has  unbound 
naivete.  I  am  civilized  man;  I  can  put  up  with  anything  th 
amuses  me. 

As  for  the  french  pseudo-catholicians,  ages  of  faith,  Jean' 
d'Arc  canonized,  capitalized  and  the  rest  of  it.  They  are  a  pes 
lent  evil.  The  procurer  is  an  honest  ....  and  boastful  ....  tradt 
man  in  comparison.    And  they  are  on  the  whole  rotten  writers. 

''But  pray  what  sort  of  a  gentleman  is  the  devil?  For  I  ha 
heard  some  of  our  officers  say,  there  is  no  such  person;  and  that 
is  only  a  trick  of  the  parsons,  to  prevent  their  being  broke,  ^d^ 
it  was  publicly  known  that  there  was  no  devil,  the  parsons  wi 
be  no  more  use  than  we  are  in  time  of  peace." 

Said  the  Serjeant.  Fielding  would  not  have  put  up  with  th< 
dribble.  And  he  was  quite  as  good  as  the  Russians.  The  Russia 
and  ha^f  Flaubert  thrown  in.  And  he  is  as  modern  a?  tlie  last  vc 
ticist  ^vriters: 

"First  having  planted  her  right  eye  side-ways  against  iv: 
Jones  .  .  .  .  " 

Not  having  been  at  Rugby  or  Eton,  I  can  take  up  anglo-phil 
as  a  decent  and  defendable  bastion,  and  leave  William  to  enthu 
over  moujiks.  I  believe  there  is  just  as  much  good.  ...  no.  de 
lady.  I  forget  myself,  or  rather  I  forget  I  am  not  writing 
William,  and  that  this  is  not  the  siecle  de  Brantome.  I  "believ 
there  is  just  as  much  animal  energy  latent.  ...  or  patent  in  t 
inhabitants  of  your  esteemed  chalk  hummock.  .\i  any  rate  I  w 
born  in  a  more  nervous  and  arid  climate. 

De  Gourmont  is  dead,  and  with  him  has  ceased  Monsieur  Of 
quant,  and  I  suppose  the  washy  rhetoricans,  this  back-flush  of  defr 
symbolism,  dead  celticism  etc..  will  have  its  way.  their  ways,  sot^ 
of  the  channel.  There  seems  no  one  to  stop  it.  The  "society 
will  be  full  of  it.  The  french  mystic  is  most  footling  of  all  myst^i 
France  herself  will  go  under.  I  mean  France  as  the  arbitress  of  of 
literary  destinies,  the  light  we  look  to,  from  our  penumbra.  Or  pfl» 
haps  Dr.  Dnhamel,  with  his  realism  of  hospitals,  and  the  brilliab 
long  silent  Romains,  the  humane  VMldrac  will  save  us?  Damn  R 
main  Rolland.  Ch.  Louis  Phillipe  is  excessive.  Meritorious,  doub 
less,  but  excessive.  Amities  WALTER. 


The    Little    Review  41 


THE  RAISED  ARMS 

(Theatre    Muet) 

Remy  de  Gourmont 

,  Translated  by  Stephana  Boecklin 

f^HE  SCENE  represents  an  ocean  of  heads,  whence  arises,  like 
t  bouys  half  revealed  by  the  waves,  a  forest  of  raised  arms.  It 
jjU  people  on  its  knees  and  in  prayer. 

The  heads  bob  to  and  fro  between  the  raised  arms:  lichens 
d  seaweed  clinging  to  the  bouys;  the  wind,  blowing  off  the  East, 
ells  out  all  the  hair  upon  them  and  excites  it  in  a  rhythm  that 
ms  also  a  prayer. 

The  people  is  on  its  knees;  from  inisible  eyes,  ecstatic  with  ter- 
and  hope,  a  mJlky  radiance  is  exhaled,  and  ascends  to  heaven. 
le  souls  climb  the  milky  way,  bedewed  with  splinters  of  pearl,  and 
e  white  road,  streaked  with  nocturnal  bars,  with  flaming  tears  and 
Dody  scum,  is  engulfed  and  in  its  supreme  altitudes  lost  within  the 
fulgent  glory  of  the  Pentagon. 

The  Pentagon  oscillates,  then  rotates  about  itself  like  a  wheel; 

flames  that  spurt  from  its  angles  gyrate  around  the  wheel;  the 
sntagon  whirls  with  an  infinite  velocity  and  propels  into  the  very 
nfines  of  the  world  a  vortex  of  flaming  air,  agitated  by  disorbed 
e-balls,  phosphorescent  nut-shells,  swept  down  the  obscure  and 
rtuous  current  of  the  universal  maelstrom. 

At  this  divine  spectacle  the  kneeling  people  trembles  in  love 
d  recognition;  piety  prostrates  itself  in  all  hearts,  and  in  all  bel- 
s  humility  crouches  upon  the  stones  among  the  debris  of  life, 
gainst  the  white  road,  which  has  resisted  the  impact  of  the  vortex, 
e  souls  hurl  themselves  and  confuse  one  another;  one  perceives 
em,  corpuscles  of  incombustible  amianthus,  stumbling  among  the 
linters  of  pearl,  scaling  the  nocturnal  bars,  vaulting  over  the 
Lining  tears,  swimming  athwart  the  bloody  scum  .  .  . 

The  wheel  stops  and  becomes  again  the  pentagon;  its  angles 
minish:  it  is  a  circle;  it  swells:  it  is  a  sphere.  This  spectacle  ap- 
ars  no  less  divine  than  the  first.  The  arms  stretch  forth  more 
Tvously,  the  heads  are  all  upturned,  resolved  to  contemplate  the 
finite  face  to  face  and  in  all  its  glory.  The  white  road  is  satur- 
ed  with  a  heavy  dust  of  souls:  one  swarm  rises  to  the  assault  of 
aven  and  menaces  the  limpid  gold  of  the  immaculate  sphere. 


42  The    Little    Review 

Behold  how  all  the  hands  and  all  the  heads  have  swayed  beneath 
the  same  force:  the  first  swarms  make  a  stain  upon  the  glorious 
sphere,  and  straightway  a  line  of  souls  extends  from  pole  to  pole. 
The  Sphere  is  obliterated:  the  people  has  vanquished  its  God. 

Below,  one  by  one  the  torches  are  extinguished;  one  by  one 
the  lamps  go  out;  the  arms  and  the  heads  become  one  with  the  air, 
and  the  East  Wind,  which  passes  above  the  stricken  bodies,  carries 
toward  the  Future  the  imponderable  perfume  of  life. 

The  world  is  become  black;  a  formless  and  stolid  God  hangs 
above  the  shadows  like  an  extinquished  lustre;  having  no  more  spec- 
tators the  Infinite  closes  the  doors  of  the  Theatre; — ^but  it  medi- 
tates, and  it  thinks,  "I  was  Pentagon;  I  will  be  Triangle." 

The  darkened  Sphere  is  shaken  upon  its  axis;  once  more  it 
swells;  points  of  gold  appear  upon  its  skin;  once  more  the  swarms 
commence  to  rain  down  upon  the  world  where  the  radiance  strikes. 
The  Sphere  bursts  asunder  and  out  of  its  ruins,  impelled  to  the  cen- 
tre by  attraction,  the  Triangle  is  formed. 

AH  the  souls  are  hurled  again  to  earth,  and,  as  they  touch 
the  slime,  the  atoms  group  themselves  about  thei  essence,  for  the 
East  Wind,  having  made  the  circuit  of  the  globe,  is  returned,  laden 
with  the  imponderable  perfume  of  life. 

Again  the  torches  and  the  lamps  are  lit;  the  heads  bob  to  and 
fro;  the  arms  stretch  forth;  the  unconscious  prayer  ascends  in  milky 
radiance  towards  the  multiform  Ideal,  and  the  souls  again  climb 
along  the  white  road  of  heaven,  the  road  which,  henceforth,  is  to  be 
swallowed  up  and  in  its  supreme  altitudes  lost  within  the  refulgent 
glory  of  the  Triangle. 


T  he    Lit  tl  e    Review  43 


TO    SUBSCRIBERS 

Who  did  not  receive  their  October  issue 

ar  October  issue  has  been  lying  in  the  Postoffice  for  the  last 
renty  days! 

e  did  not  know  this  until  November  2 1 

he  issue  was  mailed  on  October  18.  No  notice  was  sent  us  of 
ly  sort,  so  we  assumed  it  had  reached  subscribers  as  usual.  There 
IS  no  reason  for  us  to  imagine  that  it  had  not. 

0  responses  came  in  about  the  October  number,  as  they  usually  do 
ithin  a  week.  We  inquired  of  the  Postoffice  but  could  get  no  in- 
rmation  except  that  "all  deliveries  are  likely  to  be  slow  these  days". 

ut  complaints  of  non-receipt  kept  coming  in,  and  I  went  to  the 
jstoffice,  November  2,  to  find  out  what  was  the  matter.  I  was  in- 
rmed  that  the  issue  was  being  held  on  account  of  the  short  story 
Wyndham  Lewis,  called  "Cantleman's  Spring  Mate". 

his  story,  by  a  distinguished  man  of  letters,  a  man  who  at  present  is 
the  English  army  and  is  fighting  in  the  trenches,  is  about  a  young 
Idier,  who  has  a  rustic  encounter  with  a  girl  in  "the  offend- 
ig  fires  of  the  spring".  Also  it  happens  to  be  a  very  good  piece 
:  prose,  which  was  our  reason  for  printing  it.  We  had  no  hope 
lat  such  a  good  piece  of  prose   could  gain   the  interest  of   the 

ostoffice  for  a  minute. 

f 

OBSCENITY! 

November  g 

There  is  nothing  lewd  or  obscene  in  that  story.  It|  is  a  piece  of 
terature.  I  can't  find  a  word  or  phrase  or  sentence  in  it  that  anyone 
)uld  dream  of  distorting  into  indecency. 

The  decision  of  the  Post  Office  is  in  our  opinion  quite  absurdly 


44  The    Little    Review 


wrong.  We  believe  that  there  have  been  various  complaints  of  othe 
magazines  and  that  because  of  those  complaints,  the  Post-Offic 
officials  have  been  aroused  to  excessive  zeal  and  that  we  are  there 
for  hit  with  the  others,  wrongly  and  unjustly,  we  believe.  We  expec 
to  take  matter  into  Court.  The  decision  may  take  a  month.  W 
hope  and  believe  it  will  be  favorable  to  The  Little  Review. 

We  do  not  question  the  motives  of  the  official  who  acted  in  th: 
case.  We  know  our  rights.  We  are  going  to  defend  our  rights.  W 
are  sure  we  will  win. 


About  Newsstand  Sales 

The  Little  Revieiv  is  not  for  sale  on  all  the  newsstands.  New; 
dealers  are  not  particularly  interested  in  displaying  a  magazir 
which  makes  no  bids  for  popularity,  and  our  means  of  distributic 
to  casual  readers  are  therefore  somewhat  limited. 

Many  readers  have  placed  standing  orders  with  their  new. 
agents,  in  order  to  insure  as  many  copies  as  they  may  want  evei 
month.    This  is  the  next  best  thing  to  subscribing. 


A  Raise  of  Price 

If  you  are  planning  to  subscribe,  do  it  now.  After  January 
the  price  of  The  Little  Review  will  be  raised  to  $2.50  a  year,  : 
cents  the  single  copy. 


Note  I 

TTie  drawing  on  the  cover  is  by  Gaudier-Brzeska.  ^ 


FANNY    HERSELF 

Bv  EDNA  FERBER 

Author  of  "Emma  McChesiiey  &  Co."  etc. 
A  story  of  a  remarkable  girl  and  her  adventures  in  business, 
small  and  big.  She  is,  as  the  New  York  Tribune  saj's,  "the  central 
figure  of  a  train  of  incidenis  of  more  than  ordinary  interest.  Miss 
Ferber  has  done  no  better  work  than  this.  With  4  illustrations  by 
J.  Henry.     Cloth,  i2mo,  net  $1.40. 


THE  WORKS  OF  R.  B.  CUNNINGHAME  GRAHAM 
"No  one  who  is  interested  in  the  best  recent  English 
literature  should  miss  any  one  of  them...  Cunninghame 
Graham  is  a  unique  phenomenon  in  modern  English 
letters  and,  if  justice  is  done,  he  will  outlive  Wells.  He 
has  done  something  almost  new  in  fiction...." — A^.  Y. 
Evening    Mail. 

BROUGHT   FORWARD-/"^?  Published 
FAITH       PROGRESS        HOPE         SUCCESS        CHARITY 

Each,  cloth,  i2mo,   net  $1.35. 


The  LIVING  PRESENT  x^-li^P^.^Jf^c^^frj'^^ 

What  WSmen  Can  Do  in  wartime,  as  exemplified  by  the  supreme 
achievement  of  the  women  of  France  since  1914.  The  second 
part  of  the  book  deals  with  the  problems  confronting  American 
women.     Illustrated.    Cloth,   ismo,   net   $1.50. 

GRENSTONE  POEMS  ~7Unl.or~of  "Young  Harvard,"  etc. 
"There  are  few  poets  who,  like  Witter  Bynner,  can  put  into 
their  lines  genuine  feeling,  the  passion  of  beauty,  which  is  the 
authentic  mark  of  true  poetry,"  is  the  Literary  Digest's  comment 
preceding  the  quotation  of  several  of  the  "Grenstone  Poems." 
Cloth,  8vo,  illustrated,  net  $1.75.  Cloth,  i2mo,  not  illustrated, 
net  $1.35. 

PIANO  MASTERY— Second  Series 

By    HARRIETTE   BROWER 

.Author    of    "Piano    Mastery,"    etc. 

Talks    with    master    pianists    and    teachers.      Cloth,   Svo,   illus- 
trated, net  $1.75. 

CONTEMPORARY  RUSSIAN   COMPOSERS 

By    M.    MONTAGU-NATHAN 

Studies    of    the    lives    and    works    of    contemporary    Russian 
musicians.     Cloth,  Svo,  illustrated,   net  $2.30. 

FREDERICK  A.  STOKES  COMPANY 

Publishers  New  fork 


J. 

ADAM 

L  A  D  I 

E  S  '       TAILOR 

(Furs 

and  Dressmaking) 

A     p  e  r  f  e  c 

t     fit     guaranteed 

425 

FIFTH  AVENUE 

O  p  p  o  s  i  t  < 

;     Lord     and     Taylor 

New  York  City 

Telephone  Vanderbilt  5622 

STATEMENT     OF     OWNERSHIP,     MANAGEMENT,     CIRCULATION.     ETC.^ 

REQUIRED    BY    THE    ACT    OF    CONGRESS,    OF    AUGUST    24.    1912. 
OF     THE     LITTLE     REVIEW,     published    monthly     at    New    York,    N.    Y.,    for 

October    1,    1917. 
State   of    New    York,    County    of    New    York — ss. 

Before  me,  a  Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  and  county  aforesaid,  personalljr 
appeared  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  who,  having  been  duly  sworn  according  to  law, 
deposes  and  says  that  she  is  the  Publisher,  Editor,  Owner,  Business  Manager 
of  THE  LITTLE  REVIEW,  and  that  the  following  is,  to  the  best  of  her  know- 
ledge and  belief,  a  true  statement  of  the  ownership,  management  (and  if  a  daily 
paper,  the  circulation),  etc.,  of  t..e  aforesaid  publication  for  the  date  shown  in  the 
above  caption,  required  by  the  Act  of  August  24,  1912,  embodied  in  section  443, 
Postal    Laws  and   Regulations,   printed  on   the  reverse  of  this  form;   to  wit: 

1.  That  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and 
business    managers    are: 

Publisher,  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Editor, 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  xManaging  Editor 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Business  Manager, 
Margaret    C.    Anderson,   24    W.    Sixteenth    St.,    New    York. 

2.  That    the    owner    is,    Margaret    C.    Anderson. 

3.  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  security  holders  owning 
or  holding  1  per  cent,  or  more  of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or  other 
securities    are:    None. 

4.  That  the  two  paragraphs  next  above,  giving  the  names  of  owners,  stock- 
holders, and  security  holders,  if  any,  contain  not  only  the  list  of  stockholder* 
and  security  holders  as  they  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  but  also,  in 
cases  where  the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appear  upon  the  books  of  the 
company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  the  person  or 
corporation  for  whom  such  trustee  is  acting,  is  given ;  also  that  the  said  two 
paragnraphs  contain  statements  embracing  affiant's  full  knowledge  and  belief  as  to 
the  circumstances  and  conditions  under  which  stockholders  and  security  holders 
who  do  not  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustees,  hold  stock  and 
securities  in  a  capacity  other  than  that  of  a  bona  fide  owner ;  and  this  affiant 
has  no  reason  to  believe  that  any  other  person,  association,  or  corporation,  has 
any  interest  direct  or  indirect  in  the  said  stock,  bonds,  or  other  securities  than 
as    8o   stated    bv    her.  MARGARET   C.   ANDERSON. 

Sworn    to   and    subscribed    before   me    this   29th    day   of    Sept.,    1917. 

W.    J.    HADLEY.    Notary    Public. 
(My    commission    expires    March    30th,    1919.) 


ir 

I 


THE  ARTISTS'  GUILD 

A  NATIONAL  ORGANIZATION  INCORPORATED  ON 
A  "NOT  FOR  PROFIT  BASIS". 


Pain 

t  i 

n  g  s,     Sculp 

AND 

t  u  r  e 

Han 

dwrought     Obj 

e  c  t  s 

Ab  security 

for 

the  purchase  and  to  insure  merit. 

all 

works  are  approved  by  a  jury. 

E  X  q  u  i  s  i  t 

e     and     Rare 

Gifts 

The  Artists' 

and 

Craft  Workers'  own 

organization 

GALLERIES,   EXHIBITION   AND   SALESROOMS 
FINE    ARTS    BUILDING  CHICAGO,    ILLINOIS 


11  lii:fl  road  "  iluck  I'irin ' 
.luw  voiir  iiiotlii:!'  hiiiil,  "  i'i>r  koihIiioss'  Hake,  Hlnp  luuKhinu 
iKl  over  thnl  book.     Yoii  Hoiind  mo  »illy."     Uiit  you  coiiKJii't  slop  lauKl>ii)K' 
I  oday  when  you  ri-ad  "I  lucklchiTry  l-'lnn"  you  will  not  laiiKliHO  iiiu<rli.     You  will  chuckle 
"iii'u,  tiut  you  will  uIho  want  to  weep.     The  dopo  humanity  of  it — the  palhoii,  that  you 
Jii'vcr  Haw,  as  n  Itoy,  will  aiipoal  to  you  now.     You  were  too  buBy  lauRliinic  to  notice  the 
llini<ld  purity  of  the  niaiitrr  H  Htylc 

VV'liiMi  Marl;  'Iwaiu  first  wroli-  "  I  liuklcUTry  I'inn"  thiH  land  wan  nwcpt  with  n  Rnle 
of  l;iiii;l]l<-r.     VVIk'M  he  wro'i-  "  The  Iniiiconm  Abroad  "  even  lu'rope  laughed  at  it  itsolf.  , 

liiil  oMi-dny  there  aiiprari^d  n  new  book  from  bin  pen,  bo  Hpiiilual,  8o  true,  no  lofty  thnt 
thoBe  who  did  not  know  hini  well  were  iiinaiced.    "Joan  of  Arc  "  waH  the  work  of  a  poet  • 
u  hlHtorian     a  neer.     Maik  Twain  w.ih  all  of  thene.      IIIh  wan   not  the  liKht  laUKliter  "I    > 
raonient'H  fun,  but  the  whiinHical  humor  that  made  the  traucdy  of  life  more  bearublr 

The  Price  Goes  Up 

or  Vni  ITMCC   Novels— .Storieii — Humor 
CD   VULUmCO  Ji88,.y,_Tr«vcl  -  History 

This  1(1  Mark  Twaln'8  own  wt.  Thi'flstheHet  he 
wanti-d  in  the  home  of  each  of  tlioBe  who  love  him. 
Hecuuw^  heuHked  it.  IlarperHhave  worked  to  make 
a  perfect  Met  at  a  reduced  price. 

H<-fore  the  war  we  had  n  contract  price  for  rmi)er» 
tto  we  could  sell  thiHHetof  Mark  Twain  at  haU|)rite. 


A  Real  American 

Mark  'I'wain  wan  a  Ktiairiboat  pilot. 
He  waH  a  Keatcher  for  koIiI  In  the  far 
WeHt.  lie  was  a  printer.  He  worked 
bitterly  hard.  .Ml  thlx  without  a  Klim- 
mer  of  the  Ki<;al  tlcHl  iny  that  lay  before 
him.  I  hen.  with  the  oiii'tiiiiK  of  the 
Kreat  wide  VVent,  IiIh  Renins  bloomed. 

IIIh  fame  spread  throiixh  the  nation. 
It  flew  to  the  ends  of  th<;  earth,  until 
his  work  was  trunHlale<l  into  stratiKe 
toiiKiieri.  hrom  then  on,  the  path  of 
fame  lay  Nlrai|{ht  to  the  IiIkIi  places. 
At  the  heiuhl  of  his  fame  he  lost  nil 
his  money.  Me  wa^i  heavily  In  debt, 
but  IIioukIi  60  years  old,  he  starteci 
alie'ih  and  jiaid  every  cent.  It  was  the 
kiHt  heroic  touth  that  drew  him  close 
\o  the  lieartM  of  his  countrymen. 

The  world  has  asked  is  t  here  an  Amerl- 
rnn  literaturei"  Mark  Twain  is  the  an- 
swer. He  is  the  heart,  the  si)irit  of 
America,  h'roni  his  poor  and  struuKlliiK 
lx>yliood,lo  his  iilorious,  spleiulicl  olil 
UKe,  he  remained  as  simple,  as  demo- 
cratic us  the  plainest  of  our  forefathers, 
ile  wan,  uf  »ll  Aiiirrldinii,  the  iiiout  Aiiirrl- 
can.  I'rrv  in  «(iul,  niiit  (irraiiiln|r  ol  hlt(h 
tlilni<— liravc  In  the  l,i(  r  ol  troiilile — nn<t  «I- 
wuyii  ready  In  lau|{li.     I'liut  wait  Mark  Twain. 

HARPER  &  BROTHERS.  New  York 


Send  the  Coupon  Without  Money 


L. 


Kraakllo  Hq.,  N.  Y. 


TUelmt  oltlir  clll  Ion  Is  In  slight.  J  lir 
(iricr  ol  p.u.rr  has  Hi'iie  ui>.  There  can  x  Uitaoca  m. 
I.C  no  niorr  Mark  Twain  al  the  present  /  MAMrtH  a 
l.riip.  Thrrr  never  a«iAn  will  \,e  /  BROTHERS 
anv  more  Mark  Twain  .it  the  pr< 
rnt  priie.  <^et  tfie  ;jS  voliimesf 
i\ow,  while  yon  can.  livery 
Aniei<lran  has  K<'t  to  have  a  /^  .Send  me,  all  chnrK'-> 
1.1I  ol  Mark  Twain  In  liln  Xl'rcjHild,  a  act  ol  M.iik 
home.      Cet  vouri  now         XTwaln'»    worku     in    .'5 

anil  save  nev.  /  volume*.   Illustrated,   houii.l 

rhlldren  want  X  '»  h.iiiilsonio  ijreen  cliilli, 
iiixd  in  |{olil,  ifold  topu  an<i 
It  him.  N«nil  /  "niriniinrd  rdces.  11  not  utisl.i.  ■ 
ttila  poupan  to.  /  '""  '  '  *'"  "'"i'"  dieni  at  your  e«- 
lUv-  now—  '  /^  pense.  (Ilherwise  I  will  tend  yon 
wtilln  yoa  X  *idiln  S  dayii  ond  f;!.00  a  month  lor  \t 
•re  loskr  X  ""'""'»•  ""'•  eetllnit  the  benefit  ol  youi 
Inr  at        X  ''""••"'"^'"'''  Little  Review 

II. 


'ASdttu. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Respecting  no  vested  interests,  no  publishers' 

interests,  no  aged  magazines  and  reviews 

nor  staffs  of  the  same. 

In  the  December  number: 

A  Letter  from  Remy  de  Gourmont 
A  Soidier  of  Humor,  I.,  by  Wyndham  Lewis 
T.  S.  Eliot:  A  Criticism,   by  May  Sinclair 
The  beginning  of  a  new  type  of  book  reviewing 

V/omen  and  Men,  by  Ford  Madox  Hueffer,  (probably  his 
most  important  book)  begins  in  the  January  number 
and  will  run  until  June  19 19. 

James  Joyce  will  begin  a  new  novel  in  February  or  March. 

SPECIAL    ANNOUNCEMENT 

rhe  subscription  price  of  The  Little  Review  will  be  raised, 
beginning  with  the  January  number,  to  $2.50  a  year. 
•     Single  copies  will  sell  for  25  cents. 

Those  who  subscribe  before  January  i,  19 18,  will  be  en- 
titled to  the  present  rate  of  $1.50. 

FOR    CHRISTMAS 

The  bound  volumes  of  The  Little  Review  now  constitute  a 
definite  property.  Our  supply  of  back  numbers  is  not 
limitless,  but  you  can  obtain  the  first  six  months  of  the 
present  volume  (May-October.  19 17),  in  distinctive 
bindings,  for  $2.50.  This  applies  to  orders  sent  in 
before  January. 

Those  who  have  saved  their  back  numbers  and  wish  to  send 
them  to  us  for  binding  can  have  them  done  for  $1.00. 

You  could  not  find  a  more  suitable  Christmas  gift  for  your 
"literary"  friends. 

Or,  if  you  wish  to  send  The  Little  Review  for  the  next  year 
to  some  one,  let  us  have  your  order  as  soon  as  possible. 
All  orders  received  before  January  i,  iqi8,  will  come 
under  the  present  subscription  price  of  $1.50. 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,        New  York  City 


SPECIAL   OFFER 

TAMES  JOYCE'S  A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as 
"      a  Young  Man  and  a  year's  subscription  to 
The  Little  Rez'iczv  for  $2.50. 

We  are  giad  to  annouce  that  through  the  courtesy 
of  Mr.  Ilucbsch  we  are  able  to  make  the  following  un- 
usual offer,  open  to  any  one  who  sends  in  a  subscription 
(or  a  renewal)  to  The  Little  Review. 

Mr.  Joyce's  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man, 
the  most  important  and  beautiful  piece  of  novel  writincj 
to  be  found  in  English  today,  retails  for  $1.50.  The 
subscription  price  of  The  Little  Review  is  $1.50.  We 
will  cut  the  latter  to  ?i.oo,  for  this  special  offer,  and 
you  may  have  the  book  and  the  subscription  for  $2.50. 
Or  you  may  have  Mr,  Joyce's  Duhliners  instead. 


ORDER     FORM 

'A      PORTRAIT      OF      THE 
ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  ^[AN" 

Please  send  me.  of 

A  PORTRAIT  OF  THE  ARTIST  AS  A  YOUNG  MAN 
by  James  Joyce,  published  by  Mr.  B.  W.  Huebsch,  for 

which  I  enclose 

Nami^ 

•Address 

'.)rc1ers.  accompanied  by  leniittance  should  be  sent  to 

THE   LITTLE    REVIEW 
34  West  16th  Street.  New  York  City 


uTif 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF   THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


MBbk. 


FALL  ANNOUNCEMENT  OF  NEW  BOOKS 
OF  THE  OPEN  COURT  PUBLISHING  C  ' 

Bool's  Collected  Logical  Work-     f.,/.,,..^  *. 
I.a:r/:  of  Tlwiiahf.    $';.oo. 


The  St.  Lou: 

The  Cent  v  of  the  Laws  of  Nature.    By 

lii:  ranslated  by  I' red  Rothwell. 

"M.  Boutroux 
that   reality  and   elttctuc  nvcr   the 

which  common  sense  attriln  cm."  —  /<'■ 

Geometrical  Lectures  ot  Isaac  Barrow. 
an  introduction  by  7.  M.  Child,     rioili   %\ 

"The  importance  of  this  work  t 
theory  goes  without  saying.     The  in;  , 

ably   reasoned,"  —  The  Springfield   Republican. 

Diderot's  Early  Philosophical  Works.    Trans- 
lated and  Edited  by  Margaret  Jourdain.  P] 

'         '■    $1.00. 

'  man  with  an  intrrcst  in  literature  and  life  would  ri  • 
to  be  without  a  rc:i  mien  of  Eightc 

thought." — The   !■  er. 

Professionalism    and   Originality.     / 
^^n-i'ard.    Cloth,  ^v-"^. 

view  of  the  pr  nd  almost  irresponsible  i 

'    I,,,    »i f..  '    .,<■    »),.,   ,,1.,.,.,.^;...    ,,,..^,1, 

A  Modern  Job.    An  nblems  of 

By  Rticnne  (< 

<•   vohimr   is   wnrtlr. 


v,.i 


nrv  S.  > 


h,  $1.00 


Ki'^'iMii   iil.c-   ihfit  is  a  soil  i>l   p.iriMil.ii   luTit.iKc. 

THE  ^^^^'N  C(;i..;i   PUBLISHING  COMPANY 
122  South  Michigan  Avenue 
Chicago,    llli 


ITHE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE   THAT   IS    READ    BY   THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  THE  OTHERS 


DECEMBER,   1917 

\  Letter  from  Remy  de  Gourmont 

'Prufrock":  A  Criticism  May  Sinclair 

"4otes  on  Books  and  Plays:  jh 

Amy  Lowell's  "Tendencies  in  Modern 
American  Poetry" 

Jean  de  Bosschere's  "The  Closed  Door" 

"Peter  Ibbetson" 

The  Washington  Square  Players 

The  Greenwich  Village  Theatre 

The  Provincetown  Players 

The  Drama  as  an  Art 
Poems  of  Po  Chu  I  translated  by  Arthur  Waley 

Aviation  in  Musical  Criticism :        Margaret  Anderson 

Galli-Curci 

Heifetz 

A  Soldier  of  Humour,  I  IVyndham  Lewis 

Judicial  Opinion  (Our  Suppressed  October  Issue) 

M.C.A, 

Improvisation  Louis  Gilmore 

In  Shadow  Hart  Crane 

Vulgar  Infatuations  Israel  Solon 

Editorial  on  Solicitous  Doubt 
The  Reader  Critic 

Copyright.    1917,    by    Margaret    Anderson. 

MARGARET  ANDERSON,   Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  New  York 
Foreign   office:    5    Holland    Place    Chambers,   London    W.   8. 

15  cents  a  copy  $1.50  a  year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  O.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Published  monthly  by  Margaret   Anderson 


priiiHiiiiiiiiiiiMMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiEiiiiBiviiiffiiiiiiiiiiiuin^ 

PAINTINGS  by! 

AMERICAN         I 

ARTISTS  of  TO-DAY  I 


BURLIN 

MANIGAULT     | 

DEMUTH 

MARIN          1 

DICKINSON 

McFEE           m 

FISK 

MILLER          § 

GLACKENS 

MYERS    '*     1 

HALPERT 

NORDFELDT    1 

HARTLEY 

PRENDERGAST  M 

KENT 

MAN   RAY        s 

KUEHNE 

SCHUMACHER  1 

LAWSON 

WALKOWITZ    m 

LEVER 

WORTMAN       m 

MAGER 

U.   ZORACH     S 

w.  zoRACH              m 

■  THE     DANIEL  | 
I  GALLERY 

■  2  W.  47  St.  New  York 


ARNOLD 
G  E  N  T  H  E 


1       PHOTOGRAPHER      I 


STUDIO 

I  WEST  46th  STREET   | 

Thorley  Bldg.  | 

Fifth  Ave  &  46th  Street  | 


i      1    PHONE:    BRYANT   2388   | 


Modern    Gallery 

500   Fifth   Avenue 


DAUMIER 

CEZANNE 

LAUTREC 

VAN  GOGH 

PICASSO 

BRANCUSI 

PICABIA 

DERAIN 

BURTY 

VLAMINCK 

RIVERA 

BRAQUE 


Mexican  Pre-Conquest  Art 
African   Negro   Sculpture 


IJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIII 


iiillllillllllllllllOlllilllllillllUllllllIIlIllllllIllllllllIIIIIiilUllllllllIllllillllllllllllllU  ■' 


EUGENE 


I  I      HUTCHINSON      | 

I  |PHOTOGRAPHS| 

i  I  Fine  Arts  Building         g 

1  I  Chicago,  Illinois  | 


Mr.  KNOPF  announces 

LUSTRA 

by  Ezra  Pound 

This,  the  first  book  of 
poems  by  Mr.  Pound  to  appear 
in  this  country  since  1912, 
opens  with  a  number  of 
pieces  on  modern  subjects. 
These  are  followed  by  the  now 
famous  Cathay  "translation" 
from  the  Fenollosa  Chinese 
manuscripts.  Then  come  some 
earlier  poems,  and  the  book 
closes  with  the  long  and  new 
Three  Cantos. 

The  volume  contains  much 
that  is  not  included  in  any 
English  editions  of  Mr.  Pound's 
books. 

$1.50  net  at  all  bookshops 

Alfred  A.  Knopf, 

Publisher 
New  York 


A  BOOK  OF  REAL 
POETRY! 

RENASCENCE  AND  OTHER 

POEMS 

By 

EDNA   ST.   VINCENT   MILLAY 

Limited  edition  on  Handmade  Paper 
vl.SO 

Miss  Miilay's  poems  have  a  re- 
niarkaLle  freshness,  stncerit"  and 
power.  Thej;  do  not  depend  upon 
curious  and  involved  artifice,  upon 
waywardi  ss  of  m  chod  or  metre, 
upon  the  presence  of  what  should 
be  absent.  They  do  not  present 
uncounthness,  or  mere  triteness,  as 
strength.  They  are  not  facile  out- 
pourings of  one  form  -  of  shallow- 
ness, nor  the  curt  trivialities  of 
another.  They  deal,  as  poetry 
should  deal,  primarily  with  emo- 
tion; with  the  sense  of  tears  and 
of  laughter,  in  mortal  things;  with 
beauty  and  passion ;  with  having 
and    losing. 

Send   in  your  subscription  today. 

Mitchell  Kennerly 

PUBLISHER      NEW  YORK 


LUNCHEONS-CANDIES 

Delicious  wartime  lunch- 
eons for  the  Christinas 
Shopper 

Send  Candy  to  your 
Soldiers  in  the  camps. 


SPOEHR'S 

106  N.  STATE  ST. 
164  W.  ADAMS  ST. 
17S.DEAB0RNST. 

CHICAGO 


SIGN   OF    THE    FLYING   STAG 


Books  of  Plays,  Books  on  the 
Theater,  Poetry,  the  Russian 
Translations,  Unique  and  Im- 
ported Books  for  Children,  Se- 
lected Modem   Fiction. 


TWO  NEIV  AND  UTTERLY  FASCINATING  STORY  BOOKS 


THE  PRUSSIAN  OFFICER: 
Not  war  stories,  but  stories  of 
what  is  immaculately  beautiful 
and  of  what  is  curious  in 
human  relationships.  D.  H. 
Lawrence,  author  of  Sons  and 
Lovers.     ($1.50)* 

•    Add 


LIMEHOUSE  NIGHTS: 
Night  Wharves  and  Chinatown 
of  London,  stories  of  deathly 
terror  and  youthful  joy  wound 
together  in  a  marvelous  and 
shining  skein.  Thomas  Burke. 
$1.50)* 
postage. 


EGMONT  H.  ARENS, 

THE     WASHINGTON     SQUARE     BOOKSHOP 

17  West  8th  Street New  York  City. 

Open  until  nine.  A  Postcard  brings  ou    List 


By  THOMAS  H.  DICKINSON 
THE    INSURGENT   THEATRE 

All  about  the  artistic  and  practical  sides  of 
the  "little"  theatres,  open-air 
presentations,  performances  for 
children,  "modern"  movements 
and,  in  general,  a  full  discussion 
and  orientation  of  departures 
from  tradition  of  the  American 
stage.  The  various  organizations 
and  their  contributions  evaluated. 

List  of  plays  performed  are  included. 

//  you  write,  act,  read  or  criticise,  you  need  this  book, 

$1.25  net 
B.W.  HUEBSCH,  Publisher,  225  Fifth  ave.,  NewYork 


THE   LITTLE   REVIEW 

VOL.  IV.  DECEMBER,  1917  No.  8 


A  LETTER  FROM  REMY  DE  GOURMONT 
Ezra  Pound 

AT  A  TIME  when  most  of  our  now  vocal  and  prominent  American 
bellifists  were  still  determined  that  the  United  States  should 

take  no  part  in  saving  civilization,  I  desired  to  found  a  magazine 
which  should  establish  some  sort  of  communication  between  New 
York,  London  and  Paris  .To  that  end  I  asked  the  assistance  of 
Mr.  Yeats,  who  is  without  question  the  greatest  living  poet  of  these 
islands;  of  Ford  Madox  Hueffer.  founder  of  The  English  Review 
(and  in  no  way  connected  with  the  present  management  of  that 
periodical) ;  and  of  Remy  de  Gourmont.  None  of  these  men  refused. 
Other  complications  delayed  the  project.  The  present  arrangement 
with  The  Little  Review  is  the  ultimate  result  of  the  scheme.  If 
DeGourmont  had  lived  he  would  now  be  among  our  contributors. 
His  last  letter  concerning  the  project  is  therefore  of  personal  interest 
to  our  well-wishers.  It  is  of  far  wider  interst,  in  so  much  as  there 
are  few  amiable  and  dispassionate  critics  of  America,  and  that  De- 
Gourmont's  few  words  on  the  subject  are  not  without  some  enlight- 
enment. 

Cher  Monsieur : 

J'ai  lu  avec  plaisir  votre  longue  lettre,  qui  m'ex- 
pose  si  clairement  la  necessite  d'une  revue  unissant  les  efforts  des 
Americains,  des  Anglais,  et  des  Fran^ais.  Pour  cela,  je  vous  servirai 
autant  qu'il  sera  en  mon  pouvoir.  Je  ne  crois  pas  que  je  puisse 
beaucoup.  J'ai  une  mauvaise  sante  et  je  suis  extremement  fatigu^; 
je  ne  pourrai  vous  donner  que  des  choses  tr^  courtes,  des  indications 
d'idees  plutot  que  des  pages  accomplies,  mais  je  ferai  de  mon 
mieux.  J'esp^re  que  vous  reussirez  4  mettre  debout  cette  petite 
affaire  litteraire  et  que  vous  trouverez  parmi  nous  des  concours 
utiles.  Evidement  si  nous  pourions  amener  les  Americains  h.  mieux 
sentir  la  vraie  litterature  frangaise  et  surtout  i  ne  pas  la  confondre 
avec  tant  d'oeuvres  courantes  si  mediocres,  cela  serait  un  resultat 
trcs  hcureux.  Sont-ils  capables  d'assez  de  libertc  d'esprit  pour  lire, 
sans  etre  choques,  mes  livres  par  example,  elle  est  bien,  douteux  et 
il  faudrait  poUr  cela  un  long  travail  de  preparation.     Mais  pour- 


The    Little     Review 


quoi  ne  pas  I'entreprendre?  En  tous  les  pays,  il  y  a  un  noyau  de 
bons  esprit3,  d'esprits  libres,  il  faut  leur  donner  quelque  chose  qui 
les  change  de  la  fadeur  des  magazines,  quelque  chose  qui  leur  donne 
confiance  en  eux-mtmes  et  leur  soit  un  point  d'appui.  Comme 
Vous  le  dites,  il  faudra  pour  commencer  les  amener  k  respecter 
I'individualisme  frangaise,  le  sens  de  la  liberie  que  quelques  unt 
d'entre  nous  possedent  a  un  si  haut  point.  lis  comprennent  cela  en 
theologie.  Pourquoi  ne  le  comprendraient-ils  pas  en  art,  en  poesie, 
en  litterature.  en  philosophic.  11  faut  leur  faire  voir — s'ils  ne  le 
voient  pas  deji — que  I'individualisme  frangais  peut,  quand  il  If 
faut,  se  plier  aux  plus  dures  disciplines. 

Conqucrir  I'Americain  n'est  pas  sans  doute  votre  seul  but. 
Le  but  du  Mercure  a  ete  de  permettre  k  ceux  qui  en  valent  la  peine 
d'ecrire  franchement  ce  qu'il  pense, — seul  plaisir  d'un  ecrivain.  Ccia 
doit  aussi  etre  le  votre. 

Votre  bien  devoue 

Remy  de  Gourmont. 

"The  aim  of  the  Mercure  has  been  to  permit  any  man,  who  is 
worth  it,  to  write  down  his  thought  frankly, — this  is  a  writer's  sole 
pleasure.    And  this  aim  should  be  yours." 

"Are  they  capable  of  enough  mental  liberty  to  read  my  books, 
for  example,  without  being  horrified.  I  think  this  very  doubtful, 
and  it  will  need  long  preparation.  But  why  not  try  it.  There  are 
in  all  countries  knots  of  intelligent  people,  open-minded;  one  must 
give  something  to  relieve  them  from  the  staleness  of  magazines, 
somthing  which  will  give  them  confidence  in  themselves  and  serve 
as  a  rallying  point.  As  you  say,  one  must  begin  by  getting  them 
to  respect  French  individualism;  the  sense  of  liberty  which  some 
of  us  have  in  so  great  degree.  They  understand  this  in  theology, 
why  should  they  not  understand  it  in  art,  poetry,  literature." 

If  only  my  great  correspondent  could  have  seen  letters  I  re- 
ceived about  this  time  from  English  alleged  intellectuals  !  1!  Ill  1 
The  incredible  stupidity,  the  ingrained  refusal  of  thought  !!!  II 
Of  which  more  anon,  if  I  can  bring  myself  to  it.  Or  let  it  pass? 
Let  us  say  simply  that  DeGourmont's  words  form  an  interesting 
contrast  with  the  methods  employed  by  the  British  literary  epis- 
copacy to  keep  one  from  writing  what  one  thinks,  or  to  punish  one 
(financially)  for  having  done  so. 

Perhaps  as  a  warning  to  young  writers  who  can  not  afford  the 
loss,  one  would  be  justified  in  printing  the  following: 


The    Little    Review 


Soa.  Albermarle  Street.  London  W. 
2  October,  '14 

Dear  Mr.  Pound: 

Many  thanks  for  your 
letter  of  the  other  day.  I  am  afraid  I 
must  say  frankly  that  I  do  not  think  I 
can  open  the  columns  of  the  Q.  R.  — 
at  any  rate  at  present — to  anyone  asso- 
ciated publicly  with  such  a  publication 
as  Blast.  It  stamps  a  man  too  disad- 
vantageously. 

Yours  truly. 

G.  W.  Prothero. 

Of  course,  having  accepted  your 
paper  on  the  Noh,  I  could  not  refrain 
from  publishing  it  .  But  other  things 
would  be  in  a  different  category. 

I  need  scarcely  say  that  The  Quarterly  Review  is  one  of  the 
lost  profitable  periodicals  in  England,  and  one  of  one's  best  "con-^ 
ections",  or  sources  of  income.    It  has,  of  course,  a  tradition.  •» 

"It  is  not  that  Mr.  Keats  (if  that 
be  his  real  name,  for  we  almost  doubt  ^ 

that  any  man  in  his  senses  would  put  ' 

his  real  name  to  such  a  rhapsody)" — 

iTOte  their  Gifford  of  Keats'  Endymion.  My  only  comment  is  that 
he  Quarterly  has  done  it  again.  Their  Mr.  A.  Waugh  is  a  lineal 
lescendent  of  Gifford,  by  way  of  mentality.  A  century  has  not 
aught  them  manners.  In  the  eighteen  fourties  they  were  still  de- 
ending  the  review  of  Keats.  And  more  recently  Waugh  has  lifted 
ip  his  senile  slobber  against  Mr.  Eliot.  It  is  indeed  time  that  the 
unctions  of  both  English  and  American  literature  were  taken  over 
>y  younger  and  better  men. 

As  for  their  laying  the  birch  on  my  pocket.  I  compute  that 
ny  support  of  Lewis  and  Brzeska  has  cost  me  at  the  lowest  estimate 
ibout  £20  per  year,  from  one  source  alone  since  that  regrettable 
iccurence,  since  I  dared  to  discern  a  great  sculptor  and  a  great 
>ainter  in  the  midst  of  England's  artistic  desolation.  ("European 
ind  Asiatic  papers  please  copy".) 

Young  men,  desirous  of  finding  before  all  things  smooth  berths 
md  elderly  consolations,  are  cautioned  to  behave  more  circum- 
pectly. 


The    Little    Review 


It  is  a  far  cry  from  these  schoolmaster  tactics  to  Remy  de 
Gourmont,  and  of  course  no  Englishman  or  American  would  write 
as  DeGourmont  has  written.  Nor  does  the  generation  that  pre- 
ceded us  care  much  whether  we  understand  French  individualism,  or 
the  difference  between  the  good  and  bad  in  French  literature.  Nor  ia 
it  conceivable  that  any  of  them  would  write  to  a  foreigner:  "indica- 
tions of  ideas,  rather  than  work  accomplished,  but  I  will  send  you 
my  best." 

To  the  phrase  "lis  comprennent  cela  en  theologie"  I  may  take, 
later,  exception.  My  present  comment  was  intended  solely  to  show 
De  Gourmont's  attitude  toward  our  endeavour  to  publish  an  en- 
lightened periodical  in  English.  Concerning  "concours  utiles"  from 
Paris,  I  hope  to  make  definite  and  interesting  announcements  be- 
fore much  more  time  has  elapsed. 


"PRUFROCK:  AND  OTHER  OBSERVATIONS" 

A  CRITICISM 

May  Sinclair 

SO  FAR  I  have  seen  two  and  only  two  reviews  of  Mr.  Eliot's 
pwems:  one  by  Ezra  Pound  in  The  Egoist,  one  by  an  anony- 
mous wTiter  in  The  New  Statesman.  I  learn  from  Mr.  Pound's 
review  that  there  is  a  third,  by  Mr.  Arthur  Waugh,  in  the  Quarterly. 

To  Mr.  Ezra  Pound  Mr.  Eliot  is  a  poet  with  genius  as  incon- 
testable as  the  genius  of  Browning.  To  the  anonymous  one  he  is 
an  insignificant  phenomenon  that  may  be  appropriately  disposed  of 
among  the  "Shorter  Notices."  To  Mr.  Waugh,  quoted  by  Mr.  Pound, 
he  is  a  "drunken  Helot."  I  do  not  know  what  Mr.  Pound  would 
say  to  the  anonymous  one.  but  I  can  imagine.  Anyhow,  to  him 
the  Quarterly  reviewer  is  "the  silly  old  Waugh."  And  that  is 
enough  for  Mr.  Pound. 

It  ought  to  be  enough  for  me.  Of  course  I  know  that  genius 
does  inevitably  provoke  these  outbursts  of  silliness.  I  know  that 
Mr.  Waugh  is  simply  keeping  up  the  good  old  manly  traditions  of 
the  Quarterly,  "so  savage  and  tartarly,"  with  its  war-cry:  "  '  Ere't 
a  stranger,  let's  'eave  'arf  a  brick  at  'imi"  And  though  the  be- 
haviour of  The  New  Statesman  puzzles  me.  since  it  has  an  editor 
who  sometimes  knows  better,  and  really  ought  to  have  known  bet- 


The    Little    Review 


ter  this  time,  still  The  New  Statesman  also  can  plead  precedent. 
But  when  Mr,  Waugh  calls  Mr.  Eliot  "a  drunken  Helot."  it  is  clear 
that  he  thinks  he  is  on  the  track  of  a  tendency  and  is  making  a 
public  example  of  Mr.  Eliot.  And  when  the  Einonymous  one  with 
every  appearance  of  deliberation  picks  out  his  "Boston  Evening 
Transcript,"  the  one  insignificant,  the  one  neglible  and  trivial  thing 
in  a  very  serious  volume,  and  assures  us  that  it  represents  Mr.  Eliot 
at  his  finest  and  his  best,  it  is  equally  clear  that  we  have  to  do  with 
something  more  than  mere  journalistic  misadventure.  And  I  think 
it  is  something  more  than  Mr.  Eliot's  genius  that  has  terrified 
The  Quarterly  into  exposing  him  in  the  full  glare  of  publicity  and 
The  New  Statesman  into  shoving  him  and  his  masterpieces  away 
out  of  the  public  sight. 

For  ''The  Love-Song  of  J.  Alfred  Prufrock",  and  the  "Portrait 
of  a  Lady"  are  masterpieces  in  the  same  sense  and  in  the  same  de- 
gree as  Browning's  "Romances"  and  "Men  and  Women";  the 
"Preludes"  and  "Rhapsody  on  a  Windy  Morning"  are  masterpieces 
in  a  profounder  sense  and  a  greater  degree  than  Henley's  "London 
Voluntaries";  "La  Figlia  Che  Piange"  is  a  masterpiece  in  its  own 
sense  and  in  its  own  degree.    It  is  a  unique  masterpiece. 

But  Mr.  Eliot  is  dangerous.  Mr.  Eliot  is  associated  with  an 
unpopular  movement  and  with  unpopular  people.  His  "Preludes" 
and  his  "Rhapsody"  appeared  in  Blast.  They  stood  out  from  the 
experimental  violences  of  Blast  with  an  air  of  tranquil  and  triumph- 
ant achievement;  but.  no  matter;  it  was  in  Blast  that  they  ap- 
peared. That  circumstance  alone  was  disturbing  to  the  comfortable 
respectability  of  Mr.  Waugh  and  The  New  Statesman. 

And  apart  from  this  purely  extraneous  happening,  Mr.  Eliot's 
genius  is  in  itself  disturbing.  It  is  elusive;  it  is  difficult;  it  de- 
mands a  distinct  effort  of  attention.  Comfortable  and  respectable 
people  could  see.  in  the  first  moment  after  dinner,  what  Mr.  Henley 
and  Mr.  Robert  Louis  Stevenson  and  Mr.  Rudyard  Kipling  would 
be  at;  for  the  genius  of  these  three  travelled,  comfortably  and  fairly 
respectably,  along  the  great  high  roads.  They  could  even,  with  a 
little  boosting,  follow  Francis  Thompson's  flight  in  mid-air,  partly 
because  it  was  signalled  to  them  by  the  sound  and  shining  of  his 
wings,  partly  because  Thompson  had  hitched  himself  securely  to 
some  well-known  starry  team.  He  was  in  the  poetic  tradition  all 
right.  People  knew  where  they  were  with  him,  just  as  they  know 
now  where  they  are  with  Mr.  Davies  and  his  fields  and  flowers  and 
birds. 


10  The    Little     Review 


But  Mr.  Eliot  is  not  in  any  tradition  at  all;  not  even  it 
Bro\vning's  and  Henley's  tradition.  His  resemblances  to  Brown- 
ing and  Henley  are  superficial.  His  difference  is  twofold;  a  differ* 
cnce  of  method  and  technique;  a  difference  of  sight  and  aim.  H« 
does  not  see  anything  between  him  and  reality,  and  he  make! 
straight  for  the  reality  he  sees;  he  cuts  all  his  comers  and  hii 
curves;  and  this  directness  of  method  is  startling  and  upsettinf 
to  comfortable,  respectable  people  accustomed  to  going  superfiuouslj 
in  and  out  of  corners  and  carefully  round  curves.  Unless  you  ar< 
prepared  to  follow  with  the  same  nimbleness  and  straightness  yoi 
will  never  arrive  with  Mr.  Eliot  at  his  meaning.  Therefore  th« 
only  comfortable  thing  is  to  sit  down  and  pretend,  either  that  Mr 
Eliot  is  a  "Helot"  too  drunk  to  have  any  meaning,  or  that  hh 
"Boston  Evening  Transcript"  which  you  do  understand  is  greatei 
than  his  "Love  Song  of  Prufrock"  which  you  do  not  understand 
In  both  instances  you  have  successfully  obscured  the  issue. 

Again,  the  comfortable  and  respectable  mind  loves  conven- 
tional beauty,  and  some  of  the  realities  that  Mr.  Eliot  sees  are  not 
beautiful.  He  insists  on  your  seeing  very  vividly,  as  he  sees  them 
the  streets  of  his  "Preludes"  and  "Rhapsody."  He  insists  on  youi 
smelling  them. 

"Regard  that  woman 
Who  hesitates  towards  you  in  the  light  of  the  door 
Which  opens  on  her  like  a  grin. 
You  see  the  border  of  her  dress 
Is  torn  and  stained  with  sand. 
And  you  see  the  corner  of  her  eye 
Twists  like  a  crooked  pin. 

Remark  the  cat  which  flattens  itself  in  the  gutter, 

Slips  out  its  tongue 

And  devours  a  morsel  of  rancid  butter." 

He  is 

"aware  of  the  damp  souls  of  housemaids 
Sprouting  despondently  at  area  gates." 

And  these  things  are  ugly.  The  comfortable  mind  turns  away 
from  them  in  disgust.  It  identifies  Mr.  Eliot  with  a  modem  ten- 
dency; it  labels  him  securely  "Stark  Realist",  so  that  lovers  of 
"true  poetry"  may  beware.  ' 

1 


The    Little    Review  li 


It  is  nothing  to  the  comfortable  mind  that  Mr.  Eliot  is 

"...  moved  by  fancies  that  are  curled  ■ 

Around  these  images,  and  cling: 
The  notion  of  some  infinitely  gentle  ^ 

Infinitely  suffering  thing." 

It  is  nothing  to  it  that  the  emotion  he  disengages  from  his 
ugliest  image  is  unbearably  poignant.  His  poignancy  is  as  un- 
pleasant as  his  ugliness,  disturbing  to  comfort. 

We  are  to  observe  that  Mr.  Eliot's  "Observations"  are  ugly 
and  unpleasant  and  obscure. 

Now  there  is  no  earthly  reason  why  Mr.  Eliot  should  not  be 
ugly  and  unpleasant  if  he  pleases,  no  reason  why  he  should  not 
do  in  words  what  Hogarth  did  in  painting,  provided  he  does  it  well 
enough.  Only,  the  comfortable  mind  that  prefers  So  and  So  and 
So  and  So  to  Mr.  Eliot  ought  to  prefer  Hogarth's  "Paul  Before 
Felix"  to  his  "Harlot's  Progress".  Obscurity,  if  he  were  really  ob- 
scure, would  be  another  matter.  But  there  was  a  time  when  the 
transparent  Tennyson  was  judged  obscure;  when  people  wondered 
what  under  heaven  the  young  man  was  after;  they  couldn't  tell  for 
the  life  of  them  whether  it  was  his  "dreary  gleams"  or  his  "curlews" 
that  were  flying  over  Locksley  Hall.  Obscurity  may  come  from  de- 
fective syntax,  from  a  bad  style,  from  confusion  of  ideas,  from  in- 
volved thinking,  from  irrelevant  association,  from  sheer  piHng  on 
of  ornament.    Mr.  Eliot  is  not  obscure  in  any  of  these  senses. 

There  is  also  an  obscurity  of  remote  or  unusual  objects,  or  of ' 
familiar  objects  moving  very  rapidly.  And  Mr.  Eliot's  trick  of 
cutting  his  corners  and  his  curves  makes  him  seem  obscure  where  • 
he  is  clear  as  daylight.  His  thoughts  move  very  rapidly  and  by- 
astounding  cuts.  They  move  not  by  logical  stages  and  majestic 
roundings  of  the  full  literary  curve,  but  as  live  thoughts  move  in 
live  brains.    Thus  "La  Figlia  Che  Piange:" 

"Stand  on  the  highest  pavement  of  the  stair  — 

Lean  on  a  garden  urn  —  -         ? 

Weave,  weave  the  sunlight  in  your  hair  — 

Clasp  your  flowers  to  you  with  a  pained  surprise. 

Fling  them  to  the  ground  and  turn 

With  a  fugitive  resentment  in  your  eyes: 

But  weave,  weave  the  sunlight  in  your  hair. 


12  The    Little    Review 

So  I  would  have  had  him  leave, 

So  would  have  had  her  stand  and  grieve, 

So  he  would  have  left 

As  the  soul  leaves  the  body  torn  and  bruised, 

As  the  mind  deserts  the  body  it  has  used. 

I  should  find 

Some  way  incomparably  light  and  deft.  / 

Some  way  we  both  should  understand, 

Simple  and  faithless  as  a  smile  or  a  shake  of  the  hand. 

She  turned  away,  but  with  the  autumn  weather 

Compelled  my  imagination  many  days, 

Many  days  and  many  hours. 

Her  hair  over  her  arms  and  her  arms  full  of  flowers. 

And  I  wonder  how  they  should  have  been  together  1 

I  should  have  lost  a  gesture  and  a  pose. 

Sometimes  these  cogitations  still  amaze 

The  troubled  midnight  and  the  moon's  repose." 

I  suppose  there  are  minds  so  comfortable  that  they  would 
rather  not  be  disturbed  by  new  beauty  and  by  new  magic  like  this. 
I  do  not  know  how  much  Mr.  Eliot's  beauty  and  magic  is  due  to 
sheer  imagination,  how  much  to  dexterity  of  technique,  how  much 
to  stern  and  sacred  attention  to  reality;  but  I  do  know  that  without 
such  technique  and  such  attention  the  finest  imagination  is  futile, 
and  that  if  Mr.  Eliot  had  WTitten  nothing  but  liat  one  poem  he 
would  rank  as  a  poet  by  right  of  its  perfection. 

But  Mr.  Eliot  is  not  a  poet  of  one  poem;  and  if  there  is  any- 
thing more  astounding  and  more  assured  than  his  performance  it 
is  his  promise.  He  knows  what  he  is  after.  Reality,  stripped  naked 
of  all  rhetoric,  of  all  ornament,  of  all  confusing  and  obscuring  as- 
sociation, is  what  he  is  after.  His  reality  may  be  a  modem  street 
or  a  modern  drawing-room;  it  may  be  an  ordinary  human  mind  sud- 
denly and  fatally  aware  of  what  is  happening  to  it;  Mr.  Eliot  is 
careful  to  present  his  street  and  his  drawing-room  as  they  are,  and 
Pruf rock's  thoughts  as  they  are:  live  thoughts,  kicking,  running 
about  and  jumping,  nervily,  in  a  live  brain. 

Prufrock  , stung  by  a  longing  for  reality,  escapes  from  respect- 
ability into  the  street  and  the  October  fog. 

"The  yellow  fog  that  rubs  its  back  upon  the  window-panes. 
The  yellow  smoke  that  rubs  its  mxizile  on  the  window  panes, 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  13 


Licked  its  tongue  into  the  comers  of  the  evening. 

Lingered  upon  the  pools  that  stand  in  drains, 

Let  fall  upon  its  back  the  soot  that  falls  from  chimneys. 

Slipped  by  the  terrace,  made  a  sudden  leap, 

And  seeing  that  it  was  a  soft  October  night. 

Curled  once  about  the  house  and  fell  asleep." 

Profrock  has  conceived  the  desperate  idea  of  disturbing  the 
universe.    He  wonders 

"Do  I  dare 

Disturb  the  universe? 

In  a  minute  there  is  time 

For  decisions  and  revisions  which  a  minute  will  reverse. 

For  I  have  known  them  all  already,  known  them  all: 
Have  known  the  evenings,  mornings,  afternoons; 
I  have  measured  out  my  life  with  coffee  spoons; 
I  know  the  voices  dying  with  a  dying  fall 
Beneath  the  music  from  a  farther  room. 
So  how  should  I  presume?" 

Prufrock  realises  that  it  is  too  late    .He  is  middle-aged.    The 
horrible  drawing-room  life  he  has  entered  has  got  him. 

"And  the  afternoon,  the  evening,  sleeps  so  peacefully! 

Smoothed  by  long  fingers, 

Asleep  .  .  .  tired  ...  or  it  malingers, 

Stretched  on  the  floor,  here  between  you  and  me. 

Should  I,  after  tea  and  cakes  and  ices. 

Have  the  strength  to  force  the  moment  to  its  crisis? 

But  though  I  have  wept  and  fasted,  wept  and  prayed. 

Though  I  have  seen  my  head  (grown  slightly  bald)  brought 

in  upon  a  platter, 
I  am  no  prophet  —  and  here's  no  great  matter; 
I  have  seen  the  moment  of  my  greatness  flicker. 
And  I  have  seen  the  eternal  Footman  hold  my  coat  and 

snicker. 
And,  in  short,  I  was  afraid." 

His  soul  can  only  assert  itself  in  protests  and  memories.    He 
would  have  had  more  chance  in  the  primeval  slime. 


1 


I 


1 

14  T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Rev  i  ew  n 


"I  should  have  been  a  pair  of  rugged  claws 
Scuttling  across  the  floors  of  silent  seas." 

As  he  goes  downstairs  he  is  aware  of  his  futility,  aware  that 
the  noticeable  thing  about  him  is  the  "bald  spot  in  the  middle  of 
my  hair".    He  has  an  idea;  an  idea  that  he  can  put  into  action: — 

"I  shall  wear  the  bottoms  of  my  trousers  rolled." 

He  is  incapable,  he  knows  that  he  is  incapable  of  any  action  more 
momentous,  more  disturbing.  ... 

And  yet  —  and  yet  — 

"I  have  heard  the  mermaids  singing,  each  to  each. 

I  have  seen  them  riding  seaward  on  the  wave? 
Combing  the  white  hair  of  the  waves  blown  back 
When  the  wind  blows  the  water  white  and  black. 
We  have  lingered  in  the  chambers  of  the  sea. 
By  sea-girls  wreathed  with  seaweed  red  and  brown 
Till  human  voices  wake  us  and  we  drown." 

Observe  the  method.  Instead  of  writing  round  and  round 
about  Prufrock,  explaining  that  his  tragedy  is  the  tragedy  of  sub- 
merged passion,  Mr.  Eliot  simply  removes  the  covering  from  Pruf- 
rock's  mind:  Prufrock 's  mind,  jumping  quickly  from  actuality  to 
memor>'  and  back  again,  like  an  animal,  hunted,  tormented,  terribly 
and  poignantly  alive.  The  Love-Song  of  Prufrock  is  a  song  that 
Bakac  might  have  sung  if  he  had  been  as  great  a  poet  as  he  was 
a  novelist. 

It  is  nothing  to  the  Quarterly  and  to  the  New  Statesman  that 
Mr.  Eliot  should  have  done  this  thing.  But  it  is  a  great  deal  to 
the  few  people  who  care  for  poetry  and  insist  that  it  should  concern 
itself  with  reality.  With  ideas,  if  you  like,  but  ideas  that  are  reali- 
ties and  not  abstractions. 


The    Little    Review  15 


NOTES  ON  BOOKS  AND  PLAYS 

jh. 

T^HE  CRITICS  here  are  like  country  doctors  who  carry  on  their 
^     J     entire  business  with  proprietary  or  patent  medicines. 

They  have  no  scent  which  will  lead  them  to  discover  for  them- 
selves work  of  exception  and  creation,  and,  when  bad  stuff  is  put 
before  them  with  the  good,  no  principles  from  which  they  may 
strongly  declare  or  damn. 

They  are  merely  practising  reviewers  who  write  carefully- 
gleaned  comments  upon  two  kinds  of  things:  things  that  come  from 
Europe  heralded  and  stamped  with  the  approval  of  some  well-known 
critic  over  there,  or  things  in  this  country  recommended  by  Mrs. 
Atherton  or  Colonel  Roosevelt. 

When  I  am  offended  or  amused  by  some  exceeding  stupidity  or 
sentimentality  I  feel  a  momentary  impulse  to  do  something  about 
it;  but  "I  am  a  man  who  does  not  kill  mosquitos". 

I  could  never  be  a  useful  critic  because  I  can  never  see  myself 
taking  any  interest  in  anything  beyond  the  work  of  art  itself.  It  is 
of  no  interest  to  me  whether  the  public  comes  to  it  early  or  late  or 
never.  If  it  were  I  should  not  try  to  lure  or  lead  or  goad  or  shame 
them  to  accept  it.  But  to  prevent  my  suffering  I  should  entrench 
me  in  some  creed  of  reincarnation  and  rest,  knowing  that  they  will 
have  to  come. 

I  have  no  militant  opinions  of  the  offensive  kind.  I  have  formed 
a  few  principles  out  of  some  intelligence  that  I  contained  at  birth 
and  I  have  kept  them  in  spite  of  so-called  education  and  training. 
I  am  quite  conscious  of  their  operating  independently  of  my  thoughts. 
I  cannot  understand  Ezra  Pound  and  Margaret  Anderson  when  they 
become  impatient  with  the  American  public  because  it  won't  take 
Art.  I  believe  if  you  leave  the  right  kind  of  food  out  the  right  kind  of 
animals  will  get  it-^-if  they  are  hungry! 

It  is  never  a  matter  of  impatience  to  me  when  people  fail  to 
use  their  brains;  but  I  am  sometimes  puzzled  when  they  give  no 
sign  of  instincts  or  emotions.  I  should  never  be  very  angry  or  sur- 
prised at  an  automobile  if  it  refused  to  gfo  if  the  gasoline  tank  were 
found  to  be  empty,  but  I  would  be  slightly  dashed  if  the  gasoline. 


i6  The    Littlf     Review 


properly  ignited,  gave  no  action.  Water  in  the  gasoline  would  be 
the  obvious  answer  to  that,  I  suppose,  and  Puritanism  in  the  blood 
the  obvious  answer  to  the  life  in  America.  This  last  seems  to  me 
more  of  a  question  than  an  answer.  It  goes  back  to  the  kind  of 
people  who  could  adopt  a  religion  so  opposed  to  life,  no  matter 
against  what  they  were  revolting.  Some  fundamental  leick  chose  the 
religion  and  then  chose  a  place  to  flourish.  Some  seeds  are  blown 
upon  the  rocks  and  are  forced  to  take  root  there;  they  soon  die, 
starved  or  burned  out.  Others  choose  the  rock  because  it  is  all  they 
need.  It  is  cheap  and  sentimental  to  talk  about  the  nation  being 
so  young.  Savages  have  and  are  producing  significant  and  perman- 
ent Art.  Americans  always  talk  and  act  as  if  all  individuality,  all 
nationality  and  race-consciousness  were  inevitably  washed  away,  in 
the  Atlantic,  from  everyone  who  dared  to  come  to  America.  If  there 
is  to  be  Art  in  America,  no  fear:  Art  will  have  its  way.  The  ap- 
paling  and  unholy  thing  is  a  nation  that  is  satisfied  and  thinks  it 
can  exist  without  Art.    It  has  no  precedent,  no  parallel  in  history. 

Amy  Lowell's  Loose  Criticism 

Miss  Lowell  showed  a  nice  touch  in  naming  her  latest  book 
Tendencies  in  Modem  American  Pottry.  I  flared  up  for  just  t 
second  on  opening  it  not  to  find  Eliot  or  Pound  included.  But  when 
I  did  not  find  Amy  either  I  calmed  down  and  discovered  the  reason: 
Pound  is  a  force,  not  a  tendency;  Eliot  sprang  full-fledged  perhaps; 
and  Amy  Lowell  has  answered  for  herself  in  her  work.  It's  a  little 
hard  on  H.  D.  to  put  her  in  such  company  .... 

I  am  not  going  into  a  discussion  of  the  book.  My  ideas  of  life 
and  art  are  so  opposed  to  those  expressed  by  Miss  Lowell  that  to  do 
the  thing  properly  I  should  have  to  write  another  book  perhaps  longer 
than  hers. 

The  first  sentence  in  the  preface  I  think  has  been  proved  untrue 
by  many  artists  by  whom  I  think  we  can  judge  values.  Yeats  hu 
not  known  there  was  a  war.  Jean  de  Bosschere,  a  Belgian  of  whom 
I  shall  write  later,  has  created  well  without  mentioning  the  war.  I 
should  say  from  where  I  stand  that  Art  and  the  war  have  only  this 
relation:  the  war  is  only  a  disturbance,  a  distant  dust  raised  in  tht 
road  bv  a  mighty  Passing.    Art  preceeded  the  passing. 

Miss  Lowell  believes  she  can  understand  and  criticise  these 
poets  better  because  she  knows  them  personally.  Miss  Lowell 
believes  in  friends  and  enemies  in  Art.  I  thought  we  were  so  far 
beyond  the  personal  life  criticism  of  a  man's  work  that  all  the 


T he    Li t  tie    Review  17 

people  who  ever  did  it  were  long  dead.  Our  only  concern  is  with 
the  poetry.  The  poetry,  if  it  be  art,  contains  the  ultimately  diffen- 
entiating  stamp  of  the  man. 

Miss  Lowell  has  become  the  guide,  philosopher  and  friend  of  her 
contemporaries.  In  one  place  in  the  book  she  gently  warns  them 
against  "seeing  life  through  the  medium  of  sex".  In  a  recent  article 
T.  S.  Eliot  also  took  a  rap  at  "those  American  poets  who  study 
Freud."  Why  warn  them  or  jeer  them  about  Freud?  If  it  has  taken 
all  the  men  of  science  all  the  ages  to  discover  something  of  what  the 
first  poet  knew,  why  fear  for  the  poets?  I  believe  these  scientists 
have  depended  entirely  upon  Art  for  their  researches.  Life  is  so 
short — to  live  at  all.  But  to  live  one's  life  and  one's  immortality  at 
once  is  what  the  artist  must  do.  To  be  an  artist  one  must  be  born 
containing  an  intense  vision  of  the  spirit  of  life;  he  must  grip  the 
fundamental  qualities  in  the  work  of  the  past  and  in  the  little  space 
of  a  life  master  a  method  or  form  of  presenting  himself. 

If  American  writers  have  to  study  Freud  to  discover  the  spirit 
of  life, — in  other  words,  if  they  have  to  make  themselves  poets  before 
they  can  begin  to  make  poetry,  it  isn't  warnings  and  jeerings  they 
need:  it's  pity.  Life  is  so  short.  But  if  reading  Freud  will  influence 
any  one  in  this  country  to  believe  that  the  force  which  produced  him 
regulates  his  whole  life,  if  anything  can  make  the  rawness  in  the 
general  attitude  toward  sex  a  little  less  raw,  boil  the  whole  nation  in 
Freud! 

Miss  Lowell's  book  is  a  book  of  loose  thinking,  of  what  I  might 
call  cliche  phychology.  When  she  compares  poets  to  painters  or  di- 
lates on  the  effects  of  environement  she  is  as  indiscriminate  as  a  club- 
woman. 


Jean  de  Bosschcre 

A  case  in  illustration  of  my  talk  about  the  critics*  is  Jean  de 
Bosschere's  The  Closed  Door  (John  Lane,  New  York),  translated 
into  English  by  Mr.  F.  S.  Flint. 

In  August  1916  we  printed  "Ulysse  Fait  son  Lit",  and  in  Jan- 
uary 191 7  "L'Offre  de  Plebs"; — both  poems  now  included  in  the 
book  .  At  the  time  they  appeared  in  The  Little  Review  not  a  single 
critic,  poetry  expert,  or  Friday  Supplement  editor  gave  a  sign  of 
recognition.    But  now  that  the  poems  come  in  a  book,  translated 


i8  T  he    Li  t  tie    Review  " 

into  the  one  language  in  their  repertory,  with  a  preface  by  May  Sin- 
clair, this  chorus  of  safely  first  in  criticism  bursts  into  praise,  taking 
the  two  poems  above  as  special  examples  of  DeBosschers's  "anar- 
chism of  soul", — as  "deep  and  beautiful  and  terrible  poems"  .... 
This  might  be  a  compliment  to  May  Sinclair,  but  .... 

What  interests  me  is  Jean  de  Bosschere.  I  can't  understand  why 
this  man  must  be  called  mystic,  symbolist,  or  Catholic  by  anyone. 
Even  May  Sinclair  discusses  his  "mysticism". 

If  I  should  tell  an  intelligent  but  unread  man  that  I  had  seen 
the  sun  shining  at  midnight  in  Norway  I  should  think  him  a  fool  if 
he  took  me  for  a  mystic  and  thought  that  I  was  referring  symbolically 
to  the  spiritual  state  of  the  Norwegians.  My  interest  in  telling  of 
this  aspect  of  nature  may  not  have  been  in  the  fact  that  the  sun 
shone  at  midnight,  but  in  a  more  or  less  diverting  mental  game  of 
seeing  opposites  as  the  same  thing  in  aspect;  and  in  this  way  getting 
the  most  intense  contrast  of  the  two  things  in  spirit. 

Jean  de  Bosschere  (I  am  speaking  only  of  the  poems  in  The 
Closed  Door)  writes  of  the  aspects  of  life.  He  does  not  explain,  he 
does  not  comment.  He  leaves  you  to  make  the  emotional  and  in- 
tellectual connection  with  the  spirit  of  life.  He  has  made  it  for  himself 
in  silence. 

There  is  something  akin  to  the  Norsk  in  the  way  Jean  de  Boss- 
chere, the  sophisticated  man,  the  intellectual,  sees  life.  The  Norwe- 
gians are  often  called  mystics.  Again  the  intense  similarity  of  op- 
posites. There  is  an  immense  simplicity  of  vision  in  the  people  of 
the  North  which  gives  them  the  power  to  see  the  thing  as  it  is,  not 
all  disorganized  by  hopes  and  fear^  and  doubts  that  it  may  be  other- 
wise. They  too  are  called  austere,  unemotional,  uncompromising. 
You  can  be  emotional  about  life  and  its  details,  but  you  can  not  be 
emotional  about  the  naked  eternal  spirit  of  life,  nor  about  Art.  They 
exist  outside  of  emotions. 

Jean  de  Bosschere  builds  his  poems  in  the  same  proud,  clean, 
glad  way  in  which  he  has  Ulysse  build  his  house.  "There  is  hardly 
need  for  him  to  add  a  table,  a  chest,  an  altar". 

This  book  will  show  you  something  that  you  would  not  find  for 
yourself.    I  have  found  something  in  it  that  is  my  own. 

"Peter  Ibbetson" 

Among  intelligent  people  everywhere  in  the  country  there  is  a 
dissatisfaction  with  the  theatre.  It  is  expressed  and  dissapated  by 
the  public  in  little  theatre  movements  and  drama-league  revival 


The    Little    Review  19 

meetings;  by  actors  and  playwrights  in  ravings  at  the  theatric*! 
trusts. 

Once  in  a  season  there  may  come  a  play  like  Peter  Ibbetson,  over 
which  even  the  intelligent  theatre-goer  takes  hope  and  talks  of  "a 
beautiful  play", — "here  at  least  is  something  with  a  different  qual- 
ity",— "a  play  the  young  must  be  taken  to  see  to  develop  a  taste 
for  the  good  things  in  the  theatre",  etc. 

Peter  Ibbetson  is  the  worst  kind  of  thing  from  the  standpoint  of 
Drama  that  the  stage  has  to  offer.  Peter  Ibbetson  "made  from  the 
book".  Nothing  has  been  made:  no  drama.  It  comes  on  the  stage 
a  cut-down  acting  version  of  the  book,  and  is  called  a  play.  Reality 
is  forced  upon  the  audience  at  every  turn.  Reality  is  substituted 
for  imagination  even  in  the  dreams  .'It  is  a  wearing  thing, — this 
constant  frustration  of  the  imagination.  The  personality  of  the 
actors  is  so  intrusive  that  in  one  of  the  "intensest"  moments  some 
one  in  the  audience  whispered:  "Oh  now  he  looks  just  like  Ethel!" 
I  believe  it  would  have  done  something  for  the  play  if  Ethel  had  taken 
the  part  of  the  Lady  of  Towers.  The  concentrated  Barrymore  charm 
could  have  perhaps  produced  some  kind  of  emotion.  I  have  never 
seen  a  Barrymore  who  seemed  to  know  an  emotion  except  as  such, — 
as  a  human  emotion.    An  art  emotion  is  beyond  them. 

As  it  was  given  the  play  was  a  kind  of  grown-up,  uninspired, 
metaphysical  Alice  in  Wonderland.  It  dripped  sentimentality.  I 
myself  had  that  reflex  action  of  sentimentality  called  tears.  But 
an  onion  too  makes  me  weep. 

The  most  beautiful  and  weepy  scene  is  the  last,  in  which  the 
Lady  of  Towers  returns  from  the  dead  to  encourage  the  dying 
Peter.  I  don't  know  what  the  book  has  her  say  about  the  state 
after  death,  but  in  the  play  she  says:  "Peter,  where  I  am  it  is  all 
eye  and  all  ear;  it  is  seeing,  hearing,  feeling  and  smelling  all  in  one". 
This  is  indeed  something  to  fever  and  struggle  and  die  to  attain. 
It  is  the  state  of  an  oyster.    But  the  play  is  "beautiful"  .... 

The  Washington  Square  Players 

The  most  popular  attempt  to  establish  something  better  than 
the  Broadway  production  in  the  theatre  is  the  Washington  Square 
Players.    And  they  are  the  most  futile. 

■  I  have  never  seen  them  when  they  were  able  to  create  even  a 
feeling  of- the  theatre.  The  Drama  must  exist  in  its  own  world,  not 
in  ours.  That  world  is  the  theatre.  The  Drama  is  a  creation  of 
art,  the  theatre  a  creation  of  science  and  art.  This  world  must  be 
created.  The  last  time  I  saw  them,  in  a  little  piece  of  propaganda. 
The  Family  Exit,  they  created  no  more  than  a  disturbance  in  public. 


20  ,  The     Little     Review 


There  was  no  dividing  line  between  the  audience  and  the  stage.  One 
scene  is  a  family  row.  Being  let  in  on  a  family  row  in  this  way  is 
as  annoying  as  it  ever  is  in  life,  and  no  different. 

The  Greenzvicli  Village  Theatre 

The  Greenwich  Village  Theatre,  \Vhich  of>ened  last  month  in 
Sheridan  Square,  proved  in  its  first  bill  that  it  was  no  reaction  against 
the  tiresomeness  and  conventions  of  the  uptown  theatres.  It  is  no 
fresh  start  for  the  drama:  it  is  a  Broadway  theatre  slightly  converted 
to  the  beliefs  of  the  little  theatres:  a  new  playhouse  designed  and 
built  by  a  real-estate  architect  in  a  fascinating  location. 

The  first  play,  an  inconsequential  thing  in  verse,  was  overloaded 
and  overpowered  by  an  extravagantly  cjorgeous  setting,  decorative 
and  period  costumes,  and  bad  actors  .  Sidney  Carlyle  as  the  melan- 
choly Pierrot  saved  it  from  complete  futility  .  He  at  least  played 
with  distinction  and  as  if  he  had  heard  of  a  theatre  before.  I  think 
it  was  some  other  idea  than  his  that  made  him  play  the  part  with 
so  much  stress  and  vim.  His  perfect  resemblance  to  the  statue  of 
the  young  Augustus  gave  to  his  Pierrot  a  subtle  irony. 

Fania  Marinoff,  the  Columbine,  could  not  be  borne. 

The  second  play.  Efficiency,  illegitimately  depended  on  the  war- 
time feeling  in  the  audience  for  its  entire  support. 

In  T/ie  Feast  of  Bacchus  Mr.  Conroy  did  the  best  work  of  the 
company.  I  find  the  Uttle  psychological  and  intellectual  stunts  of 
Schnitzler  just  as  interesting  to  read  as  to  see  acted.  They  are  not 
drama,  but  if  they  are  put  on  the  stage  they  must  be  done  by  people 
of  some  intelligence.  Fania  Marinoff's  conception  of  the  sophisti- 
cated wife  and  comrade  of  a  distinguished  dramatist  was  a  brainless 
thing:  a  third-rate  actress  off  stage  and  not  an  interesting  one.  Her 
voice  and  manners  were  recht  ordinaire;  in  other  words,  she  was 
crass. 

TJie  Provincctozvn  Players 

Where  there  is  nothing  there  may  still  be  hope.  I  don't  exactly 
mean  that  about  the  hope  .... 

The  Provincetown  Players  in  their  bleak  room  in  MacDougal 
Street,  with  their  home-made  plays  and  their  wobbly  scenery,  have 
a  set  purpose:  to  give  American  plays  to  promote  the  art  of  the 
drama  in  America.  That  spirit  about  the  arts  will  block  any  one  or 
anything  from  getting  on  and  up. 

But  in  all  this  welter  of  theatres  they  alone  have  an  actress: 
Ida  P.aiih.  Here  is  a  woman  who  contains  the  qualities  of  an  actress. 
She  is  akin  to  the  great  ones,  Bemhardlt,  Duse  and  Rejane,  in  that 


The    Little    Review  21 


fundamental  quality  and  force  of  being.  It  is  such  an  undeniable 
force  that  even  the  spectator  without  imagination  (vision)  becomes 
aware  of  it  and  is  held. 

There  is  an  absolute  lack  of  scientific  training  or  direction  in 
the  Provincetown  Theatre.  It  seems  to  be  an  art  theatre  of  the 
"natural"  kind.  Many  of  the  players  will  never  develop  into  ama- 
teurs; few  of  them  will  ever  recognize  the  difference  between  Ida 
Rauh  and  themselves. 

With  a  ban  on  everything  but  Ameri(|l6.n  plays  there  is  little 
possibility  of  finding  a  role  with  enough  resistance  in  it  for  this  kind 
of  actress.  No  dramatist  has  shown  himself  of  enough  intensity  and 
sophistication.  There  is  no  reason  Vv'hy  such  an  actress  should  be 
sacrificed  to  the  commercial  theatre.  The  only  thing  left  for  her  is 
to  create  through  and  over  and  beyond  weak  plays,  as  Duse  did. 

The  Drama  as  Art 

It  is  useless  to  go  on  talking  about  the  theatre  as  it  is.  The  thea- 
tre as  a  place  of  Art  is  dead.  Som.e  of  us  who  recognize  this  and 
have  not  reached  a  state  in  our  development  where  we  can  suavely 
and  unselfishly  permit  the  dead  to  remain  with  us,  cry  out-crudely: 
Life  is  for  the  alive;  the  theatre  is  dead;  bury  it  or  resurrect  it 
Alive. 

But  the  drama  is  one  of  the  great  Arts.  It  can  neither  be  killed 
nor  buried  alive  .  In  all  the  other  arts  the  modem  artist  has  cut  away 
tradition  and  convention,  stripped  dov.n  to  the  very  soul,  and 
given  a  chance  for  a  new  intense  life  .Only  the  dramatist  lies  inert, 
helpless,  buried  under  the  theatre,  literature,  the  system,  and  the 
public. 

There  is  nothing  else  to  believe  but  that  in  time  Drama  will  ex- 
tricate it  self  from  all  the  systems  that  have  fastened  upon  it. 
There  is  some  interest  in  trying  to  hasten  this  time,  for  our  own 
sake.  I  should  like  to  make  clear  a  simple  suggestion,  without 
getting  into  a  treatise  on  the  Drama. 

For  years  men  in  Europe  have  been  working  to  establish  the 
drama  as  an  art,  but  in  America  the  whole  idea  seems  to  have 
been  to  make  it  a  branch  of  Social  Service  Work. 

As  one  of  the  Arts  it  is  almost  unrecognized  in  the  theatre.  In 
its  place  we  have  literature  and  very  much  not-literature,  novels  il- 
lustrated v.'ith  voice,  gesture,  costume  and  scenery  of  endless  varieties ; 
we  have  propaganda, — moral,  social,  political,  religious. 

The  little  theatres  in  their  protest  have  expended  all  their  ener- 
gies upon  the  externals:  scenery  and  lighting.    They  have  weakly 


22  The    Li  t  tic    Review 


discarded  the  technique  in  voice  and  acting  which  they  had  never 
acquired. 

But  "talk",  the  real  curse  of  the  theatre  today,  they  hug  to 
themselves:  and  as  so  much  else  is  lacking,  seem  to  be  the  exponents 
of  the  "talk",  "discussion",  and  "domestic  relations  plays". 

Drama  is  emotion  expressed  in  motion  (action).  Words  are  not 
needed  to  evoke  the  emotion  or  to  explain  the  action.  Words  belong 
to  literature.  Only  a  setting  is  needed  which  shall  stay  a  setting  and 
not  become  a  painting,  interior  decoration,  or  nature  .  And  actors 
with  enough  personality  to  impersonally  transmit  the  emotion. 

Several  months  ago  we  printed  some  experiments  by  John  Rod- 
ker  called  the  Theatre  Muet.  I  should  like  to  see  them  tried  out  in 
one  of  our  theatres. 

In  scultpure  we  have  had  the  design  simplified  and  intensified 
for  its  own  sake  rather  than  for  the  sake  of  expression.  In  painting 
we  have  gone  to  the  extreme  of  throwing  down  all  representation 
and  presenting  the  abstract.  Poetry  and  music  have  had  their 
revolutions. 

When  the  emotions  that  are  eternal  have  been  rescued  from  the 
confusion  of  our  brutally  taxing  physical  life  and  the  emptines  of 
our  psychology,  which  deals  too  much  with  the  details  and  too  little 
with  the  spirit  of  life,  we  will  have  a  nevv  drama.  I  do  not  think 
that  it  will  be  the  theatre  muet,  any  more  than  I  believe  that  this 
painting  will  remain  abstract  forever.  Representation  will  return 
to  painting.  The  artist  will  be  consciously  or  subconsciously  in- 
fluenced in  a  world  of  representations.  I  do  not  mean  representation 
as  imitation  or  illustration,  but  as  an  interpretation  of  the  inner  rela- 
tion of  things  to  life.  We  will  have  our  theatre  staging  emotions  in 
action  with  dialogue  that  is  not  conversation  but  rather  an  ac- 
companiment. 

That    Boston    Paper    Again 

London  Office: 

One  of  the  younger  Irish  essayists  has  just  been  in  with  yet 
another  prize  tale  of  The  Atlantic  Monthly.  It  seems  that  one  of 
the  Garnett  family  had  delivered  himself  of  a  more  than  usulaly  typi- 
cal article  in  that  pipe  organ  of  Massachusetts  kultur;  our  Irish  con- 
temporary wrote  to  them  outlining  a  reply  and  rebuttal  of  Garnett. 
The  Atlantic,  ever  priceless,  The  Atlantic  replied  to  him  that  they 
thought  his  idea  a  good  one.  and  would  entrust  it  to  one  of  thar  regu- 
lar contributors. 


The    Lit  tie    Review  23 


POEMS    OF    PO    CH  U-l* 

(772-846  a.  d.) 

Translated  by  Arthur  Waley 
The  Harper  of  Chao 

The  singers  have  hushed  their  notes  of  clear  song; 

The  red  sleeves  of  the  dancers  are  motionless. 

Hugging  his  lute,  the  old  harper  of  Chao 

Rocks  and  sways  as  he  touches  the  five  chords. 

The  loud  notes  swell  and  scatter  abroad: 

"Sa,  sa",  like  wind  blowing  the  rain. 

The  soft  notes  dying  almost  to  nothing: 

"Ch'ieh,  ch'ieh",  like  the  voice  of  ghosts  talking. 

Now  as  glad  as  the  mag  pie's  lucky  song: 

Again  bitter  as  the  gibbon's  ominous  cry. 

His  ten  fingers  have  no  fixed  note; 

Up  and  down — "kung",  "chih"  and  "yu"^ 

And  those  who  sit  and  listen  to  the  tune  he  plays 

Of  soul  and  body  lose  the  mastery. 

And  those  who  pass  that  way  as  he  plays  the  tune 

Suddenly  stop  and  cannot  raise  their  feet. 

Alas,  alas  that  the  ears  of  common  men 

Should  love  the  modern  and  not  love  the  old! 

Thus  it  is  that  the  harp  in  the  green  window 

Day  by.  day  is  covered  deeper  with  dust. 


^  Notes  of  the  scale. 

*  I  reprint  these  poems  from  the  October  number.    They  are  too, 
good  for  any  one  to  miss.  —  M,  C.  A. 


24  The    Little    Review 


On    the    Way    to    Hangchow: 

Anchored    on    the    River    at    Night 

Little  sleeping  and  much  grieving,  the  traveller 
Rises  at  midnight  and  looks  back  toward  home. 
The  sands  are  bright  witli  moonlight  that  joins  the  shores; 
The  sail  is  white  with  dew  that  has  covered  the  boat. 
Nearing  the  sea,  the  river  grows  broader  and  broader: 
Approaching  autumn,  the  nights  longer  and  longer 
Thirty  times  we  have  slept  amid  rfiists  and  waves, 
And  still  we  have  not  reached  Hangchow! 

Immortality 

Boundless,  the  great  sea!    - 

Straight  down, — no  bottom:  sidewa>'s, — no  border. 

Of  cloudy  waves  and  misty  billows  down  in  the  uttermost  depths 

Men  have  fabled,  in  the  midst  there  stand  three  sacred  hills. 

On  the  hills  thick  growing, — herbs  that  banish  death. 

Wings  grow  on  tliose  who  eat  tliem  and  they  turn  into  heavenly 

hsien. 
The  Lord  of  Ch'irf^  and  Wu  of  Han^  believed  in  these  stories; 
And  magic-workers  year  by  year  were  sent  to  gather  the  herbs. 
The  Blessed  Islands,  now  and  of  old,  what  but  an  empty  tale? 
The  misty  waters  spread  before  them  and  they  knew  not  where 

to  seek. 
Boundless,  the  great  sea! 
Dauntless,  the  mighty  wind! 

Their  eyes  search  but  cannot  see  the  shores  of  the  Blessed  Islands. 
They  cannot  find  the  Blessed  Isles  and  yet  they  dare  not  go  back; 
Youths  and  maidens  that  began  ttie  quest  grew  gray  on  board 

the  boat. 
They  found  that  the  writings  of  Hsii  Fu  were  all  boasts  and  lies; 


*  The  "First  Emperor,"  B.  C.  259 — 210. 
2  The  Emperor  Wu,  B.  C  156— S7. 


The    Little    Review  25 

To  the  Great  Unity  and  Lofty  Principle  they  had  raised  their  prayers 

in  vain. 
Do  you  not  see 
The  graves  on  the  top  of  Black  Horse  Hill  and  the  tombs  at 

Mo-ling?^ 
What  is  left  but  the  sighing  wind  blowing  in  the  tangled  grass? 
Yes,  and  what  is  more, 

The  Dark  and  Primal  Master  of  Sagas  in  his  five  thousand  words 
Never  spoke  of  herbs:  never  spoke  of  hsien, 
Nor  spoke  of  climbing  in  broad  daylight  up  to  the  blue  of  heaven. 

The    Two   Red   Towers 

{A  Satire  Against  Clericalism) 

The  Two  Red  Towers 

North  and  South  rise  facing  each  other. 

I  beg  to  ask,  to  whom  do  they  belong? 

To  the  two  princes  of  the  period  Cheng  YiJan.^ 

The  two  princes  blew  on  their  flutes  and  drew  down  faries  from  the 

sky; 
Who  carried  them  off  through  the  Five  Clouds,  soaring  away  to 

Heaven. 
Their  halls  and  houses,  that  they  could  not  take  with  them, 
Were  turned  into  Temples,  planted  in  the  Dust  of  the  World. 
In  the  tiring-rooms  and  dancers'  towers  all  is  silent  and  still; 
Only  the  willows  like  dancers'  arms,  and  the  pond  like  a  .mirror. 
At  twilight  when  the  flowers  are  falling,  when  things  are  sad  and 

hushed, 
One  does  not  hear  songs  and  flutes,  but  only  chimes  and  bells. 
The  Imperial  Patent  on  the  Temple  doors  is  written  in  letters  of  gold; 
,  For  nuns'  quarters  and  monks'  cells  ample  space  is  allowed. 


*  The  burial  places  of  these  two  Emperors. 
2  785—805  A.  D. 


26  The    Little    Review 

For  green  moss  and  bright  moonlight — plenty  of  room  provided; 
In  a  hovel  opposite  is  a  sick  man  who  has  hardly  room  to  lie  down! 
I  remember  once  when  at  P'ing-yang  they  were  building  a  great 

man's  house: 
How  it  swallowed  up  the  housing  space  of  thousands  of  ordinary 

men. 
The  Immortals'  are  leaving  us.  two  by  two.  and  their  houses  are 

turned  into  Temples; 
I  begin  to  fear  that  the  whole  world  will  become  a  vast  convent! 

On     Board    Ship: 
Reading    Yuan    Chen's    Poems 

I  take  your  poems  in  my  hand  and  read  them  beside  the  candle; 
The  poems  are  finished:  the  candle  is  low:  da\\Ti  not  yet  come. 
With  sore  eyes  by  the  guttering  candle  still  I  sit  in  the  dark, 
Listening  to  the  waves  that  strike  the  ship  driven  by  a  head-wind. 

Arriving    at    Hsun-Yang' 

A  bend  of  the  river  brings  into  view  two  triumphal  arches; 
This  is  the  gate  in  the  western  wall  of  the  suburbs  of  Hsun-yang. 
I  have  still  to  travel  in  my  solitary  boat  three  or  four  leagues — 
By  misty  waters  and  rainy  sands,  while  the  yellow  dusk  thickens. 

We  are  almost  come  to  Hsun-yang;  how  my  thoughts  are  stirred 
As  we  pass  to  the  south  of  Yii-liang's  Tower  and  the  east  of  P'en  port. 
The  forest  trees  are  leafless  and  withered.  —  after  the  mountain 

rain ; 
The  roofs  of  the  houses  are  hidden  low  among  the  river  mists. 
The  horses,  fed  on  water-grass,  are  too  weak  to  carry  their  load; 


'  The  Emperor's  relatives. 

■■!■  He  was  banished  to  this  place  in  815  with  the  rank  of  Sub-prefect. 


The    Little    Review  27 

The  cottage  walls  of  wattle  and  thatch  let  the  wind  blow  on  one's 
bed. 

In  the  distance  I  see  red- wheeled  coaches' driving  from  the  town- 
gate; 

Thev  have  taken  the  trouble,  these  civil  p>eople,  to  meet  their  new- 
Prefect! 


After    Getting    Drunk,    Becoming 
Sober    in    the    Night 

Our  party  scattered  at  yellow  dusk  and  I  came  home  to  bed; 

I  woke  at  midnight  and  went  for  a  walk,  leaning  heavily  on  a  friend. 

As  I  lay  on  my  pillow  my  vinous  complexion,  soothed  by  sleep, 

grew  sober; 
In  front  of  the  tower  the  ocean  moon,  accompanying  the  tide,  had 

risen. 
The  swallows,  about  to  return  to  the  beams,  went  back  to  roost 

again; 
The  candle  at  my  window,  just  going  out,  suddenly  revived  its 

light. 
All  the  time  till  dawn  came,  still  my  thoughts  were  muddled; 
And  in  my  ears  something  sounded  like  the  music  of  flutes  and; 

strings. 

Last    Poem 

They  have  put  my  bed  beside  this  unpainted  screen; 

They  have  shifted  my  stove  in  front  of  the  blue  curtain. 

I  listen  to  my  grandchildren  reading  to  me  from  a  book; 

I  watch  the  servants  heating  up  the  soup. 

I  move  my  pencil,  answering  the  poems  of  friends; 

I  feel  in  my  pockets  and  pull  out  the  medicine  money. 

When  this  suf)erintendance  of  trifling  affairs  is  done 

I  lie  back  on  my  pillows  and  sleep  with  my  face  to  the  fouth. 


28  The    Little    Review 


AVIATION  IN  MUSICAL  CRITICISM 

Margaret  Anderson 

I  HAVE  heard  a  great  deal  of  music  lately,  I  have  sat  at  concerts 
with  the  critics  and  listened  to  their  strange  discussion  of  it, 
and  I  have  sat  alone  and  wondered  how  such  a  wierd  cind  sterile  race 
of  beinf^s  ever  happened  to  be  produced  in  the  world. 

First  of  all.  New  York  will  go  into  raptures  over  Galli-Curci. 
I  say  this  now  before  New  York  has  heard  her,  because  I  am  already 
suffering  over  the  things  I  will  have  to  listen  to  about  her.  The  cri- 
tics \Vill  call  her  a  great  artist  and  the  public  will  rave  in  the  same 
key.  And  the  only  true  things  that  can  be  said  of  GalU-Curci  is 
that  she  has  a  remarkable  vocal  organ  which  any  intelligent  being 
will  listen  to  with  the  same  type  of  interest  he  has  for  a  tight-rope 
performance. 

Any  one  grown  enough  to  classify  his  emotions  will  know  this 
at  once.  To  say  that  she  has  a  marvelous  voice  is  not  to  say  that  she 
has  an  art,  that  she  is  capable  of  art.  that  she  has  anything  more  to 
do  with  Art  than  a  toadstool  has.  The  fact  is  that  she  was  not  born 
an  artist,  that  she  will  never  become  one  (you  can't,  of  course),  and 
that  she  probably  hasn't  enough  knowledge  of  what  the  word  means 
even  to  wish  to  become  one. 

I  heard  her  debut  last  year  in  Qiicago.  She  did  her  stunts  with 
the  facility  of  a  bird,  and  so  there  was  a  great  clamour.  I  can  im- 
agine how  Campanini  rushed  to  sign  contracts  with  her,  how  he  sud- 
denly discovered  that  he  had  been  concealing  a  jewel  from  the  public, 
how  the  legend  of  her  greatness  was  the  easiest  thing  in  the  world  to 
create,  etc.  etc.  This  is  a  country  where  everyone  believes  that  a 
stunt  superbly  done  is  an  art.  They  don't  exactly  call  baseball 
playing  one  of  the  arts,  but  anything  comparable  to  the  "form" 
needed  to  pitch  a  ball  properly  becomes  art  when  they  recognize  it 
in  a  voice,  on  a  piano  or  a  vilon.  In  literature  they  can't  yet  recog- 
nize when  a  stunt  has  been  properly  accomplished,  so  any  one  who 
writes  at  all  is  regarded  as  an  "artist";  he  may  do  the  worst  poetry 
or  novel-writing  of  his  generation,  but  the  mere  fact  of  his  being 
engaged  in  writing  is  enough  to  include  him  in  the  cult. 

But  Annette  Kellerman  is  not  an  artist,  despite  the  grace  and 
dexterity  of  her  diving;  and  Theodore  Dreiser  is  not  an  artist,  des- 
pite the  interesting  books  he  has  written;  and  Mrs  Fiske  is  not  an 
artist,  even  if  she  has  mastered  the  technique  of  the  stage;  ana  Bar- 


The    Little    Review  29 


rie's  plays  are  not  Art  even  if  they  do  contain  a  complete  and  exquis- 
ite knowledge  of  human  nature;  and  Isadora  Duncan  is  not  an  artist 
even  if  she  does  move  many  people  profundly;  and  Rudolf  Ganz  is 
not  an  artist  even  if  he  does  play  the  pmno  with  utter  and  absolute 
and  delightful  virtuosity.  And  Paderewski  and  Kreisler  and  Bauer 
and  Bernhardt  and  Mary  Garden  are  artists  because  they  were  born 
•with  creative  imagination.  AnO  Galii-Curci  is  not  an  artist,  by  vir- 
ture  of  that  lack.  These  home-truths,  I  regret  to  say,  are  still  un- 
recognized. 

Galli-Curci  is  a  very  unattractive  little  person  without  pi-esence, 
personality,  charm,  brains,  taste,  spirit,  or  looks.  She  is  a^vkward 
and  silly  on  the  stage,  simpering  and  excessively  saccharine,  un- 
trained in  any  of  the  beautiful  uses  of  the  body.  She  has  one  of  two 
gestures,  like  Melba,  for  all  kinds  of  emotion,  and  uses  them  contin- 
uously, with  an  awful  coyness,  without  regard  to  what  is  going  on 
in  the  music  or  in  the  drama.  All  the  most  stupid  affectations  of  the 
old  opera  ideals  are  in  her  perfomances.  I  believe  she  is  supposed 
to  have  said  that  she  likes  singing  with  Caruso  and  dislikes  singing 
with  Muratore.  Whether  she  said  it  or  not  it  would  have  to  be  true. 
She  and  Caruso  are  on  about  the  same  intellectual  level:  what  Mura- 
tore conceives  as  the  art  of  opera  belongs  to  an  air  which  they  can- 
not breathe.  I  am  not  trying  to  disparage  the  gift  of  voice  which 
Galli-Curci  has.  I  am  merely  objecting  to  the  riot  ot  idiocy  through 
the  country  which  calls  that  voice  art.  And  I  am.  trying  to  express 
my  contempt  for  the  New  York  audiences  that  will  go  into  testacies 
over  this  woman  next  month  and  refuse  to  understand  the  great  art 
which  Mary  Garden  has  to  give  them. 

The  musical  sensation  of  the  year  is  Jascha  Heifctz.  Before  I 
heard  him  I  was  told  that  he  played  the  violin  more  beautifully  than 
Kreisler,  that  he  was  the  most  wonderful  phenomenon  that  has  ever 
come  to  these  shores,  etc,,  etc.  When  I  went  fo  his  concert  I  heard 
this:  a  triumph  of  virtuosity,  as  definitely  and  forever  removed  from 
comparison  with  Kreisler  as  Godowsky  is  from  Harold  Bauer. 

Heifetz  plays  with  more  ease  than  any  violinist  I  have  ever 
seen.  He  is  very  young,  very  graceful  and  charming  and  appealing, 
and  the  chief  characteristic  of  his  music  is  flawlessness.  One  enthus- 
iast told  me  she  loved  his  playing  because  he  did  such  unexpected 
things,  you  could  never  tell  what  he  was  going  to  do  next,  etc.  But 
he  does  no  unexpected  things.  His  playing  is  perfection.  He  hasn't 
even  a  touch  of  that  "exaggeration  a  propos"  which  is  the  gp.uge  of 
personal  quality,  and  without  which  a  man  cannot  put  the  stamp 


;o  The    Little    Review 


of  himself  upon  his  work.  Such  playing  is  not  the  playing  of  a  master 
but  of  a  perfect  pupil.  Heifetz  is  like  that:  the  essence  of  all  the 
things  that  can  be  taught  seem  to  have  come  together  in  him.  He  has 
not  discarde<l  any  values  handed  on  to  him  and  replaced  them  with 
his  own.  He  has  not  outstripped  his  teachers.  He  gives  no  indication 
of  the  thing  which  cannot  be  taught.  He  is  the  perfect  artist,  and ' 
as  such  he  won  this  tribute  from  one  critic:  "Heifetz  does  not  in- 
trude himself  upon  the  music."    Exactly.    That  is  the  trouble. 

I  had  looked  for  some  of  the  richness  of  the  Slav  in  Heifetz. 
They  say  he  has  a  weary  face.  I  was  not  close  enough  to  see.  but 
certainly  his  music  has  no  weariness.  It  is  not  interesting  enough  for 
that.  My  informants  may  be  quite  mistaken  about  his  look.  He 
may  have  merely  a  sad  face  .  Certainly  in  his  pictures  he  hasn't  "the" 
look. 

It  is  really  quite  too  naive  of  the  newspaper  critics  to  have 
compared  him  with  Kreisler.  One  of  the  more  conservative  remarks 
carefully:  "I  cannot  agree  with  those  who,  on  the  inspiration  of 
the  moment,  instantly  sweep  away  all  the  favorites  of  the  day. 
Kreisler  still  remains  my  ideal  of  violinists".  Good  heavens!  this 
'•«  all  but  pitiable  Kreisler's  quality  is  that  of  the  trained  human 
being,  a  nervous  concentration  of  imagination  and  intellect  and 
fxassion  turned  upon  a  finely  conscious  idea;  Hcifet's  quality  is  that  of 
the  un-selfconscious,  unaware  human  being,  dedicated  to  the  beautiful 
playing  of  music  as  some  one  else  has  conceived  it.  "But  Kreisler  is 
mature  and  Heifetz  is  so  young.  Wait  a  bit",  etc.,  etc.  This  is 
banality.  I  am  talking  of  the  quality  each  man  had  at  birth,  and 
of  absolutely  nothing  else.  There  was  more  art  in  Kreisler's  playing 
of  his  arrangement  of  Paderewski's  minuet  than  in  Heifetz's  whole 
program.  David  Hochstein's  playing  is  more  nearly  like  Heifetz's 
than  that  of  any  one  else  in  this  country.  But  David  Hochstein 
plays  with  more  interest  in  the  quality  of  his  feeling.  He  hasn't  such 
a  range  of  virtuosity,  but  why  does  New  York  care  more  for  virtu- 
osity than  for  anything  else? 

No,  Heifetz  is  not  the  great  new  violinist.  And  another  thing: 
whenever  a  great  new  violinist  does  appear  his  audiences  will  be  start- 
led by  one  difference  at  least,  whatever  else  they  arc  able  to  perceive. 
They  will  discover  a  quite  different  kind  of  acompianlst  at  the  piano, 
and  a  quite  different  kind  of  sound  coming  from  that  instrument.  No 
great  musician  of  the  future  could  stand  the  strain  of  the  horrible 
sounds  made  by  the  hack  pianists  that  serve  today  as  the  best  ac- 
companists. The  things  they  do  to  the  piano  are  fearful.  I  always 
have  a  nightmare  afterward  of  their  loose,  flat,  unfeeling,  unsensitive. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  31 

untrained  (not  in  the  sense  of  technique  but  of  touch)  hands  fiop- 
ping  up  and  down  on  the  keyboard,— hands  that  can  keep  good  time, 
but  that. know  no  differentiations  of  sound  except  loud  and  soft. 
I  keep  thinking  "Oh,  great  heavens,  in  a  few  minutes  he'll  play  loud, 
but  not  a  contained  loud — a  brassy  loud  as  if  the  sound  were  in 
shreds."  ....  It  is  very  awful. 


IMPROVISATION 

Louis   Gilmore 

Blue  night 
Powdered  with  stars 
Haggard  moon 
With  late  hours 
Mandolins  .... 

M.  I'Abbe 
In  mauve  trousers 
Shapely  hand 
Pulling  flowers 
Violins  .... 

Marquise 
By  greenisn  taper 
Sly  mask 
Ogling  a  sailor 
Tambourins  .... 


32  The    Little    Review 


A  SOLDIER   OF  HUMOUR  "^  , 

Wyndham   Lewis 

PART   I 

SPAIN  IS  AN  overflow  of  sombreness  "Africa  commences  at  the 
Pj-renees."  Spain  is  a  check-board  of  Black  and  Goth,  on 
which  Primitive  Gallic  chivalry  played  its  most  brilliant  games.  At 
the  gates  of  Spain  the  landscape  gradually  becomes  historic  with 
Roland.  His  fame  dies  as  difficultly  as  the  flourish  of  the  cor  de 
chasse.  It  lives  like  a  superfine  antelope  in  the  gorges  of  the 
Pyrenees,  becoming  more  and  more  ethereal  and  gentle,  Charle- 
magne moves  Knights  and  Queens  beneath  that  tree;  there  is 
something  eternal  and  Rembrantesque  about  his  proceedings.  A 
stormy  and  threatening  tide  of  history  meets  you  at  the  frontier. 

Several  summers  ago  I  was  cast  by  Fate  for  a  fierce  and  pro- 
longed little  comedy,  —  an  essentially  Spanish  comedy.  It  approp- 
riately began  at  Bayonne,  where  Spain  not  Africa  begins. 

I  am  a  large  blonde  Clown,  ever  so  vaguely  reminiscent  (in 
person)  of  William  Blake.  George  Alexander,  and  some  great  Ameri- 
can Boxer  whose  name  I  forget.  I  have  large  strong  teeth  which  I 
gnash  and  flash  when  I  laugh,  as  though  I  were  chewing  the  hu- 
mourous morsel.  But  usually  a  look  of  settled  and  aggressive  naiev- 
Ty  rests  on  my  face.  I  know  I  am  a  barbarian,  who,  when  Imperial 
Rome  was  rnther  like  Berlin  to-day,  would  have  been  paddling 
about  in  a  coracle.  My  body  is  large,  white  and  savage.  But  all 
the  fierccnes  has  become  transformed  into  laughter.  It  still  looks 
like  VisiGothic  fighting  machine,  but  is  really  a  laughing  machine. 
As  I  have  remarked,  when  I  laugh  I  gn.vsh  my  teeth,  which  Is  an- 
other brutal  survival,  and  thing  Laughter  has  taken  over  from  War. 
Everywhere  where  formerly  I  would  fly  at  thoats,  I  howl  with 
laughter! 

A  German  remains  in  a  foreign  country  for  thirty  years,  speaks 
its  language  as  well  as  his  own,  and  assimilates  its  ideas.  But  he 
is  the  ideal  spy  of  Press-Melodrama,  because  he  remains  faithful  in 
thought  to  his  Fatherland,  and  in  his  moments  of  greatest  expan- 
siveness  with  his  adopted  countrymen,  is  cold,  more  or  less: — 
enough  to  remain  a  German.  So  I  have  never  forgotten  that  I 
am  really  a  neo-Teuton  barbarian.  I  have  clung  coldly  to  this  con- 
sciousness with  an  almost  Latin  good  sense. 


The    Little    Review  33 

I  realise,  similarly,  the  uncivilized  nature  of  my  laughter.  It 
does  not  easily  climb  into  the  neat  Japanese  box,  which  is  the 
"cosa  sallada"  of  the  Spaniard,  or  French  "esprit."  It  sprawls  into 
everything.     It  has  become  my  life. 

All  this  said,  I  have  often  passed  quite  easily  for  a  Frenchman, 
in  spite  of  my  Swedish  fairness  of  complexion. 

There  is  some  Local  genius  or  god  of  adventure  haunting  the 
soil  of  Spain,  of  an  especially  active  and  resourceful  type.  I  have 
seen  people  that  have  personified  him;  for  the  people  of  a  country, 
in  their  most  successful  products,  always  imitate  their  gods.  You 
feel  in  Spain  that  it  is  safer  to  seek  adventures  than  to  avoid 
them.  You  have  the  feeling  that  should  you  refrain  from  charging 
the  windmills,  they  are  quite  capable  of  charging  you;  in  short, 
you  come  to  w^onder  less  at  Don  Quijote's  eccentric  behaviour. 
But  the  diety  of  this  volcanic  soil  has  become  more  or  less  civilised. 
— My  analysis  of  myself  would  serve  ecjually  for  him  in  this  respect. 
— Your  life  is  no  longer  one  of  the  materials  he  asks  for  to  supply 
you  with  constant  amusement,  as  the  conjuror  asks  for  the  gentle- 
man's silk  hat.  Not  your  life, — but  a  rib  or  two,  your  comfort  or 
a  five  pound  note  are  all  he  needs.  With  these  things  he  juggles 
and  conjures  from  morning  till  night,  keeping  you  perpetually 
amused  and  on  the  qui  vive. 

It  might  have  been  a  friend:  but  as  it  happened  it  was  the 
most  implacable  enemy  I  have  ever  had  that  Providence  provided 
me  with  as  her  agent  representative  for  this  journey. 

The  comedy  I  took  part  in  was  a  Spanish  one,  then,  at  once 
piquant  and  elemental.  But  a  Frenchman  filled  the  principle  role. 
When  I  add  that  this  Frenchman  was  convinced  the  greater 
part  of  the  time  that  he  was  taking  part  in  a  tragedy,  and  was 
perpeually  on  the  point  of  transplanting  my  adventure  T^'^'^-^y  into 
that  other  category;  and  that  although  his  actions  drew  their  ve- 
hemence from  the  virgin  source  of  a  racial  hatred,  yet  it  was  not 
as  a  Frenchman  or  a  Spaniard  that  he  acted, — then  you  will  con- 
ceive what  extremely  complex  and  unmanageable  forces  were  about 
to  be  set  in  mbtion  for  my  edification. 

What  I  have  said  about  my  barbarism  and  my  laughter  is  a 
key  to  a  certain  figure.  By  these  antecedents  and  modifications  of 
a  modern  life,  such  another  extravagant  warrior  as  Don  Quijote  is 
produced,  existing  in  a  vortex  of  strenuous  and  burlesque  en- 
counters. Mystical  and  humourous,  astonished  at  everything  at 
bottom  (the  settled  naivete  I  have  described)  he  is  enclined  to 
„  worship  and  deride,  to  pursue  like  a  riotous  moth  the  comic  and 


34  The     Little     Review 


unconscious  luminary  he  discovers;  to  make  war  on  it,  and  cherish 
it,  like  a  lover. 

It  was  about  ten  o'clock  at  night  when  I  reached  Bayonne. .  I 
had  started  from  Paris  the  evening  before. 

In  the  market  square  near  the  station  I  was  confronted  with 
several  caravanseris  shamelessly  painted  in  crude  intimate  colours; 
brilliantly  shining  electric  lights  of  peculiar  hard,  livid  disreputable 
tint  illumined  each  floor  of  each  frail  structure;  eyes  of  brightly^' 
frigid  invitation.  Art  of  Vice,  cheap  ice-cream,  cheaply  ornamented 
ice  wafers  on  a  fete  night,  were  things  they  suggessed.  "Fonda 
del  Universo,"  "Fondo  del  Mundo":  Universal  Inn.  and  the  Inn 
of  the  World,  two  of  them  were  called.  I  had  not  sufficient  energy 
left  to  resist  these  buildings.  They  all  looked  the  same,  but  to  keep 
up  a  show  of  will  and  discrimination  I  chose  the  second,  not  the 
first.  I  advanced  along  a  narrow  passage-way  and  found  myself 
suddenly  in  the  heart  of  the  Fonda  del  Mundo.  On  my  left  lay  the 
dining-room,  in  which  sat  two  travellers  .1  was  standing  in  the 
kitchen, — a  large  courtyard  round  which  the  rest  of  the  hotel  and 
a  house  or  two  at  the  back  were  built.  But  it  had  a  glass  roof  on 
a  level  with  the  house  proper. 

About  half  a  dozen  stoves  with  sinks,  each  managed  by  a  sep- 
arate crew  of  grimy  workers,  formed  a  semicircle.  One  had  the 
impression  of  hands  being  as  cheap,  and  every  bit  as  dirty  as  dirt. 
You  felt  that  the  lowest  scullery  maid  could  afford  a  servant  to  do 
the  roughest  of  her  work,  and  this  girl  in  turn  another.  The  abund- 
richness  and  prodigality  of  beings,  of  a  kind  with  its  profusion  of 
fruits  and  wine.  Instead  of  buying  a  wheelbarrow  would  not  one 
attach  a  man  to  one's  business? — instead  of  hiring  a  removing  van 
engage  a  gang  of  carriers?  In  every  way  that  man  could  replace 
the  implement  he  would  here  replace  it.  An  air  of  leisurely  but 
continual  activity  pervaded  this  precinct,  extensive  cooking  going 
on.  I  discovered  later  that  this  was  a  preparation  for  the  morrow. 
a  market  day.  But  to  enter  at  ten  in  the  evening  this  large  and 
apparently  empty  building,  as  far  as  customers  went,  and  find  a 
methodically  busy  population  in  its  midst,  cooking  a  nameless 
Feast,  was  naturally  impressive.  A  broad  staircase  was  the  only^ 
avenue  in  this  house  to  the  sleeping  apartments;  a  shin'^ng  cut  glass, 
door  beneath  it  seemed  the  direction  I  ought  to  take  when  I  should 
have  made  up  my  mind  to  advance.  This  door,  the  stairs,  the 
bread  given  you  at  the  table  d'hote  all  had  the  same  new,  unsub- 
stantial appearance, 


T  he    Lit  tl  e    Review  35 

I  stood  waiting,  my  rug  on  my  arm,  before  penetrating  fur- 
ther into  this  enigmatical  world  of  the  "Fonda  del  Mundo."  Then 
the  hostess  appeared  through  the  glass  door — a  very  stout  woman 
in  a  c'rc-ss  like  a  dressing  gown.  She  had  the  air  of  sinking  into  her- 
self as  if  into  a  hot  enervating  bath,  and  the  sleepy  leaden  in- 
tensity of  expression  belonging  to  many  Spaniards.  Her  face  was 
ance  of  the  South  seemed  manifesting  in  this  way,  as  well,  in  a 
so  still  and  impassabie  that  the  ready  and  apt  answers  coming  to 
one's  questions  were  startling.  The  air  of  dull  resentment  meant 
nothing  except  that  I  was  indifferent  to  her.  Had  I  not  been  so 
this  habitual  expression  would  not  have  been  allowed  to  remain, 
a  cold  expressionlessness  would  have  replaced  it. 

She  turned  to  the  busy  scene  at  our  right  and  called  out 
with  guttural  incisiveness  several  orders  in  Spanish,  all  having 
some  bearing  on  my  fate;  some  connected  with  my  supper,  the 
others  with  further  phases  of  my  sojourn  in  her  house.  They 
fell  in  the  crovvd  of  leisurely  workers  without  causing  a  ripple. 
But  they  gradually  reached  their  destination. 

First  i  noticed  a  significant  stir  and  a  dull  flare  rose  in  the 
murky  atmosphere,  as  though  one  of  the  lids  of  a  stove  had  been 
slid  back  preparatory  to  some  act  of  increased  culinary  activity. 
Then  elsewhere  a ^  slim,  handsome  young  witch  left  her  cauldron 
and  passed  me,  going  into  the  dining-room.  I  followed  her  and 
the  hostess  went  back  through  the  cut  glass  door. 

Supper  began.  The  wine  may  have  been  Condy's  Fluid.  It 
resembled  it,  but  in  that  case  it  had  been  many  years  in  stock.  I 
made  short  work  of  the  bacalao  (cod, — that  nightmare  to  Spaniards 
of  the  Atlantic  seabord).  The  stew  that  followed  had  no  terrors 
for  me,  a  spectator  would  have  thought.  But  the  enthusiastic  on- 
looker at  this  juncture  would  have  seen  me  suddenly  become  in- 
ert and  brooding,  would  have  seen  my  knife  fall  from  my  nerveless 
right  hand,  my  fork  be  no  longer  grasped  in  my  left.  I  was  van- 
quished. My  brilliant  start  had  been  a  vain  flourish.  The  insolent 
display  of  sweets  and  dessert  lay  unchallenged  before  me.  Noticing 
my  sudden  desistance,  my  idle  and  defenceless  air,  the  only  other 
ocupant,  now,  of  the  salle  a  manger,  and  my  neighbor,  addressed 
me.  He  evidently  took  me  for  a  Frenchman.  I  could  maintain 
that  role,  if  need  be. 

"11  fait  beau  ce  soir!"  he  said  dogmatically  and  loudly,  staring 
blankly  at  me. 

'l^SIais  non,  voyons!  It's  by  no  means  a  fine  night!  It's  cold 
and  damp,  and,  what's  more,  it's  going  to  rain.' 


36  The    Little    Review 

1  cannot  say  uhy  1  contradicted  him  in  this  fashion.  Perhaps 
the  insolent  and  mystical  gage  of  drollery  his  appearance  generally 
fiung  down  was  the  cause. 

My  neighbor  took  my  response  quite  stolidly  however,  and  prob- 
ably this  initial  rudeness  of  mine  would  have  had  no  effect  what- 
ever on  him,  had  not  a  revelation  made  shortly  afterwards  at  once 
changed  our  relative  positions,  and  caused  him  to  look  on  me  with 
different  eyes.  He  then  went  back,  remembered  this  first  incivility 
of  mine,  and  took  it,  retrospectively,  in  a  different  spirit  to  that 
shown  contemporaneously.     For  he  now  merely  inquired, 

"You  have  come  far?" 

"From  Paris,'"  1  answered,  gazing  in  consternation  at  a  large 
piece  of  cheese,  which  was  about  to  advance  upon  me  at  every  mo- 
ment, and  finish  what  the  cod,  its  sauce  and  the  dreadful  stew  had 
begun. 

The  third  occupant  of  the  salle  a  manger  had  just  retired  to 
rest  a  few  moments  before  this  dialogue  began  after  a  prolonged  and 
apparently  drawn  battle  with  the  menu,  for  he  looked  by  no  means 
unscathed.  He  had  been  hard  pressed  by  the  sweets,  that  was  evident. 
You  felt  that  had  not  the  coffee  been  the  last  item  of  the  bill 
of  fare,  he  would  inevitably  have  succumbed.  Honour  was  saved, 
however,  and  he  hurried  to  bed  head  erect,  but  legs, — that  part 
of  his  person  farthest  removed  from  the  seat  of  his  indomitable 
will, — in  palpable  disarray.  As  to  the  individual  who  had  addressed 
me,  he  showed  every  sign  of  the  extremest  hardiness.  He  lay  back 
in  his  chair,  his  hat  on  the  back  of  his  head,  ftnishing  a  bottle  of 
wine  with  iDravado.  His  waistcoat  was  open,  and  this  was  the 
only  thing  about  him  that  did  not  denote  the  most  facile  of  victories. 
I  considered  this  as  equivalent  to  a  rolling  up  of  the  sleeves;  it 
was  businesslike,  it  showed  that  he  respected  his  enemy.  Had 
his  waistcoat  remained  buttoned  down  to  the  bottom,  it  would 
have  been  more  in  keeping  wih  the  rest  of  his  fanfaronading  manner. 
But  after  all,  it  may  have  beeh  because  of  the  heat. 

His  straw  hat  served  rather  as  a  heavy  coffee-coloured  nim-» 
bus, — such  a  nimbus  as  some  Browningsque  Florentine  painter,  the 
worst  for  drink,  might  have  placed,  rather  rakishly  and  tilting  for- 
ward, behind  the  head  of  a  saint.  Above  this  veined  and  redly  sun- 
burnt forhead  gushed  a  lot  of  dry  black  hair.  His  face  had  the 
vexed,  wolfish  look  often  seen  in  the  Midi.  It  was  full  of  char- 
acter, but  had  no  breadth  of  touch;  it  had  been  niggled  at  and  worked 
all  over,  at  once  minutely  and  loosely*  by  a  hundred  little  blows  and 
chissellings  of  fretful  passion.  Flis  beard  did  not  sprout  with  any 
shape  or  symmetry.    Yet  in  an  odd  and  baffling  way  there  was  a 


The    Little    Review  37 

breadth,  a  look  of  possible  largeness  somewhere.  You  were  forced  at 
length  to  attribute  it  to  just  that  blankness  of  expression  I  have  just 
mentioned.  This  sort  of  blank  intensity  spoke  of  a  real  possibility 
of  real  passion,  of  the  sublime.  (It  was  this  sublime  quality  that  I 
was  about  to  waken,  and  was  going  to  have  an  excellent  opportunity 
of  studying). 

He  was  dressed  with  a  sombre  floridity.  In  his  dark  grey- 
purple  suit  with  thin  crimson  lines,  in  his  dark  red  hat  band,  in  his 
rich  blue  tie,  in  his  stormily  flowered  waistcoat,  one  had  a  feeling 
that  his  taste  for  the  most  florid  of  colouring  had  everywhere -strug- 
gled to  assert  itself,  and  everywhere  been  overcome.  But  by  what? 
That  was  one  of  this  man's  secrets,  and  one  of  the  things  that 
made  him  a  pubbling  person.  Again,  the  cut  of  his  clothes,  in  a  kind 
of  awkward  amplitude,  seemed  out  of  place. 

He  was  not  a  commercial  traveller.  I  was  sure  of  this.  For 
me,  he  issued  from  a  void.  I  rejected  in  turn  his  claim,  on  the 
strength  of  his  appearance,  to  be  a  small  vineyard  owner,  a  man  in 
the  automobile  business  and  a  'rentier'.  He  was  part  of  the  mys- 
tery of  this  extraordinary  hotel;  his  solitude,  his  ungregarious  ap- 
pearance, his  aplomb  before  that  menu! 

In  the  meantim.e  his  little  sunken  eyes  were  fixed  on  nie  im- 
perturbably,  blankly. 

"I  was  in  Paris  last  week:"  he  suddenly  announced.  "I  don't 
like  Paris.  Why  should  J[?"  I  thought  he  was  becoming  rather 
aggressive,  taking  me  for  a  Parisian.  'They  think  they  are  up-to- 
date.  Go  and  get  a  parcel  sent  you  from  abroad,  and  go  and  try 
and  get  it  at  the  Station  Depot.  See  how  many  hours  you  will 
pass  there  trotting  from  one  little  bureau  clerk  to  another  before 
tliey  give  it  to  you.  Then  go  to  a  cafe  and  ask  for  a  drink!  The 
waiter  will  upset  half  of  it  over  your  legs!  Are  you  Parisian?'* 
He  asked  this  in  the  same  tone,  the  blankness  slightly  deepening. 

"No,  I'm  English,"  I  answered. 

He  looked  at  me  steadfastly.  This  evidently  at  first  seemed  to 
him  untrue;  then  he  suddenly  appeared  to  accept  it  implicity. 

After  a  few  minutes  of  silence,  he  addressed  me,  to  my  surprise, 
in  my  own  language;  but  with  every  evidence  that  it  had  crossed 
the  Atlantic  at  least  once  since  it  had  been  in  his  posession,  and 
that  he  had  not  inherited  it  but  acquired  it  with  the  sweat  of  his  brow 

"Oh!  you're  English?    It's  fine  day!" 

Now,  we  are  going  to  begin  all  over  again.  And  we  are  going 
to  start,  as  before,  with  the  weather.  But  I  did  not  contradict  him 
this  time.  My  opinion  of  the  weather  had  in  no  way  changed. 
I  disliked  that  particular  sort  as  much  as  ever.    But  for  some  reason 


38  T  he    Lit  t  le    Review 

I  withdrew  from  my  former  attitude  of  uncompromising  truth,  and 
agreed. 

"Yes,"  I  said. 

Our  eyes  met,  doubtfully.  He  had  not  forgotten  my  late  inciv- 
ility, and  I  remembered  it  at  the  same  time.  He  was  silent  again, 
evidently  turning  over  dully  in  his  mind  the  signification  of  this 
change  on  my  part;  and,  before  my  present  weak  withdrawal,  feeling 
a  still  stronger  resentment  in  remembering  my  wounding  obstinacy 
of  five  minutes  before.    Yes,  this  was  now  taking  effect. 

And  then,  almost  threateningly,  he  continued, — heavily,  point- 
edly, steadily,  as  though  to  see  if  there  were  a  spark  of  resistance 
anjrvvhere  left  in  me,  that  would  spit  up  under  his  trampling  words. 

"I  guess  eets  darn  fi'  weather,  and  goin'  to  laast.  A  friend 
mine,  who  ees  skeeper,  sailing  for  Bilbao  this  afternoon,  said  that 
mighty  little  sea  was  out  zere,  and  all  fine  weather  for  his  run. 
A  skipper  ought'  know,  I  guess,  ought'n  he?  Zey  know  sight  more 
about  zee  weader  than  most.  I  gess  zat's  deir  trade, — a'nt  I 
right?" 

A  personal  emotion  was  rapidly  gaining  him.  And  it  seemed 
that  speaking  the  tongue  of  New  York  helped  its  increase  con- 
siderably. All  his  strange  blankness  and  impersonality  had  gone, 
or  rather  it  had  ivoken  up,  if  one  may  so  describe  this  strange 
phenomenon.  He  now  looked  at  me  with  awakened  eyes,  coldly, 
judicially,  fixedly.  But  he  considered  he  had  crushed  me  enough, 
and  began  talking  about  Paris, — as  he  had  done  before  in  French. 

He  spoke  English  incorrectly,  but,  like  many  foreigners,  the 
one  thing  linguistically  he  had  brought  away  from  the  United  States 
intact  was  an  American  accent  of  the  most  startling  and  uncompro- 
mising perfection.  Whatever  word  or  phrase  he  knew,  in  however 
mutilated  a  form,  had  this  stamp  of  colloquialism  and  air  of  being 
the  real  thing.  He  spoke  English  with  a  careless  impudence  at 
which  I  was  not  surprised;  but  I  had  the  sensation  besides  that  the 
vague  but  powerful  consciousness  of  the  authentic  nature  of  his  ac- 
cent, made  him  still  more  insolently  heedless  of  the  faults  of  his 
speech.  His  was  evidently  to  the  full  the  American  ,or  Anglo-Saxon 
American,  state  of  mind:  a  colossal  disdain  for  everything  that 
does  not  possess  in  one  way  or  another  an  American  accent.  It 
It  seemed  almost  that  my  English,  grammatically  regular  though  it 
was,  lacking  the  American  accent  was  but  a  poor  vehicle  for 
thought  compared  with  his  most  blundering  sentence. 

Before  going  further  I  must  make  quite  clear  that  I  have  no 
more  predjudice  against  the  American  way  of  accenting  English 


The    Little    Review-  39 

than  I  have  against  the  Irish  or  English.  The  Irish  brogue  is  pret- 
tier than  English  (despite  Irishmen's  alternate  disparagement  and 
exploiting  of  it) ;  and  American  possesses  an  indolent  vigour  and 
dryness  which  is  a  most  cunning  arm  when  it  snarls  out  ironies. 
The  American  accent  is  the  language  of  Mark  Twain,  and  is  the 
tongue,  at  once  naive  and  cynical,  of  a  thousand  inimitable  humour- 
ists. 

I  remember  at  the  three  or  four  schools  I  succesively  went  to, 
that  at  all  a  curious  and  significant  belief  prevailed.  I  always  under- 
stood, up  to  my  seventeenth  year,  that  an  Englishman  could  reckon, 
without  undue  vanity  and  as  a  matter  of  scientific  fact,  on  overcom- 
ing in  battle  seven  Frenchman.  That  he  need  feel  by  no  maens  un^ 
easy  if  threatened  by  twenty,  or  fifty,  for  that  matter;  but  that  the 
sort  of  official  and  universally  acknowledged  standard  was  one  En- 
glishman corresponding  to  seven  Frenchmen.  I  remember  also  a 
conversation  I  had  in  Paris  with  a  young  Englishman.  We  were 
both  nineteen,  and  very  tall  and  lanky.  He  was  a  slow,  awkward 
and  rather  timid  youth.  We  were  discussing  nocturnal  aggressions, 
and  he  said  quietly  that  these  Paris  roughs  "wouldn't  ever  tackle  an 
Englishman."  "They  knew  better" — This  same  young  man  also  was 
very  conscious  of  the  difference  of  his  walk  from  that  of  French- 
men. He  referred  to  it  quite  seriously  as  "the  walk  of  the  conquer- 
ing race."  I  could  never  see  any  difference  myself,  except  that  his 
legs  were  disproportionately  long,  and  he  seemed  a  rather  incompet- 
ent pedestrian. 

Now  I  have  met  nowhere  else  in  Europe  with  this  excellent 
illusion  of  national  superiority.  A  Frenchman  knows  he  will  have 
to  use  his  utmost  cunning  to  circumvent  and  eventually  exterminate 
or  main  one  single  German.  The  German  reflects  he  will  have  to 
eat  a  great  deal  of  Leberwiirst  and  Sauerkraut  to  be  able  to  crush 
with  his  superior  weight  the  nimble  Frenchman.  "The  God's  Own 
Country"  attitude  of  some  Americans  is  more  Anglo-Saxon  than 
their  blood.  I  can  now  proceed  without  fear  of  misinterpretation  on 
the  part  of  my  American  friends. 

I  had  before  this  met  Americans  from  Odessa,  Buda  Pesth  and 
Pekin.  Almost  always  the  air  of  the  United  States,  which  they 
breathed  for  a  month  or  two,  had  proved  too  much  for  them.  They 
were  never  any  good  for  anything  afterwards,  became  wastrels  in 
their  own  countries, — poets  and  dreamers. 

This  man  at  once  resembled  and  was  different  from  them. 
The  case  of  this  diffence  became  apparent  when  he  informed  me  that 
he  was  a  United  States  citizen.    I  believed  him  unreservedly  and  on 


40  The    Little    Revie'o 

the  spot.    Some  air  of  security  in  him  that  only  such  a  ratification 
can  give,  convinced  me. 

He  did  not  tell  me  at  once.  Between  his  commencing  to  speak 
in  English  and  his  announcing  his  citizenship  came  an  mdetermined 
neutral  phase  in  our  relations.  In  the  same  order  as  in  our  con- 
versation in  French,  we  progressed  from  the  weather  topic,  —  a  del- 
icate subject  with  us, — to  Paris. 

Our  acquaintance  had  matured  wonderfully  quickly.  I  already 
felt  instinctively  that  certain  subjects  of  conversation  were  to  be 
avoided;  that  certain  shades  of  facial  expression  would  cause  suspi- 
cion, hatred  or  perplexity  in  his  soul. — He,  for  his  part,  evidently 
with  the  intention  of  eschewing  a  subject  fraught  with  dangers,  did 
not  once  speak  of  England.  It  was  as  though  England  were  a  sub- 
ject that  no  one  could  expect  him  to  keep  his  temper  about,  and  that 
if  a  man  did  inde'ed  come  from  England  he  would  naturally  resent 
being  reminded  of  it, — as  though  he  might  feel  that  the  other  was 
seeking  to  take  an  undue  advantage  of  him.  He  was  in  fact  in- 
dulgently pretending  for  the  moment  that  I  was  an  American. 

"Guess  you'  goin'  to  Spain?"  he.  said.  "Waal,  Americans  are 
not  like'  very  much  in  that  country.  That  country,  sir,  is  barb'- 
rous;  you  kant  believe  how  behind  in  everything  that  country's  is! 
All  you  have  to  do  is  to  look  smart  there  to  make  money.  No  need  to 
worry  there.  No,  by  gosh!  Just  sit  round  and  ye'll  do  bett'  dan  zee 
durn  dagos!" 

The  American  citizenship  wiped  out  the  repulsive  fact  of  his 
southern  birth,  otherwise  he  would  have  been  almost  a  dago  him- 
self, being  a  Gascon. 

"In  Guadalquiver, — waal — kind  of  State-cap 'tie,  some  manza- 
nas  or  kind  shanties,  see? — waar'-L 

I  make  these  sentences  of  my  neighbour's  much  more  lucid 
than  they  were  in  reality.  But  he  now  plunged  into  this  obscure 
swirl  of  words  with  a  story  to  tell.  The  story  was  drowned  in 
them,  but  I  gathered  it  told  of  how.  travelling  in  a  motor  car,  he 
could  find  no  petrol  anywhere  in  a  town  of  some  importance. 

He  was  so  interested  in  the  telling  of  the  story,  that  I  became 
rather  off  my  guard,  and  once  or  twice  showed   that  I  did   not. 
quite  follow  him,  did  not  quite  understand  his  English.    He  finished 
his  story  rather  abruptly  and  there  was  a  silence.    It  was  after  this , 
silence  that  he  divulged  the  fact  of  his  American  citizenship.  : 

And  now  things  took  on  a  very  gloomy  aspect.  ] 

With  the  revelation  of  this  mighty  fact  he  seemed  to  consider  <i 
it  incumbent  upon  him,  to  adopt  an  air  of  increased  arrogance. 


The   Little    Review  41 

He  was  now  the  representative  of  the  United  States.  There  was  no 
i^ore  question  of  my  being  an  American.  All  compromise,  all  cour- 
teous resolve  to  ignore  painful  facts,  was  past.  Things  must 
stand  out  in  their  true  colours,  and  men  too. 

As  a  result  of  this  heightened  attiude,  he  appeared  to  doubt 
the  sincerity  or  exactitude  of  everything  I  said.  His  beard  bristled 
round  his  drawling  mouth,  his  thumbs  sought  his  arm-pits,  his  feet 
stood  up  erect  and  aggressive  on  his  heels,  at  the  delicate  angle  of  a 
drawing  by  Pascin.  An  insidious  attempt  on  my  part  to  induct  the 
conversation  back  into  French,  unhappily  detected,  caused  in  him 
a  sombre  indignation.  I  was  curious  to  see  the  change  that  would 
occur  in  my  companion  on  feeling  on  his  lips  once  more  and  in  his 
throat,  the  humbler  tongue.  The  treachery  of  my  intention  gradu- 
ally dawned  upon  him.  He  seemed  taken  aback,  was  silent  and  very 
quiet  for  a  few  minutes,  as  though  stunned.  The  subtleties,  the 
Ironies,  to  which  he  was  exposed! 

"Oui,  c'est  vrai",  I  went  on,  with  frowning,  serious  air,  over 
palpably  absorbed  in  the  subject  v.e  were  discussing,  and  overlook- 
ing the  fact  that  I  had  changed  to  French;  "les  Espagnols  ont  du 
chic  a  se  chausser.  D'Ailleurs,  c'est  tout  ce  qu'ils  savent,  en  fait 
de  toilette.     C'est  les  Americains  surtout  qui  savent  s'habiller!" 

-  His  eyes  at  this  became  terrible.  He  saw  through  it  all.  And 
now  I  was  flattering,  was  flattering  Americans,  and  above  all,  prais- 
ing their  way  of  dressing.  The  guile  of  this  wks  too  much  for  him. 
He  burst  out  vehemently,  almost  wildly,  in  the  language  of  his 
adopted  land: — 

"Yes,  sirr  and  that's  more'n  see  durn  English  do!" 

He  was  a  typical  product  of  the  French  midi.  But,  no  doubt, 
in  his  perfect  Americanism—and  at  this  ticklish  moment,  his  im- 
peccable accent  threatened  by  an  unscrupulous  foe,  who  was  at- 
tempting to  stifle  it  temporarily — a  definate  analogy  arose  in  his 
mind.  The  red-skin  and  his  wiles,  the  hereditary  and  cunning  foe 
of  the  American  citizen,  no  doubt  came  vividly  to  his  mind  and  he 
recognized,  in  its  evoking  this  image,  the  dastardliness  of  my  at- 
tack. Yes,  wiles  of  that  familiar  sort  were  being  used  against  him, 
Sioux-like,  Blackfeet-like  maneouvres.  He  must  meet  them  as  the 
American  citizen  had  always  met  them.  He  had  at  length  over- 
come the  Sioux  and  Mohican.  He  turned  on  me  a  look  as  though 
I  had  been  unmasked,  and  his  accent  became  more  accentuated, 
rasping  and  arrogant.  I  might  say  that  his  accent  became  venem- 
ous.    All  the  elemental  movements  of  his  soul  were  always  acutely 


42  TJtc    Little    Review 


manifest  in  his  American  accent,  the  principal  vessel,  as  it  were,  of 
his  vitality. 

After  another  significant  pause  he  brusquely  chose  a  subject  of 
conversation  that  he  was  convinced  we  could  not  agree 
upon.  He  took  a  long  draught  of  the  powerful  fluid  served  to 
each  diner.  I  disagreed  with  him  at  first  out  of  politeness.  But  as 
he  seemed  resolved  to  work  himself  up  slowly  into  a  national  pas- 
sion, I  changed  round  and  agreed  with  him.  He  glared  at  me  for 
a  moment.  He  felt  at  bay  before  this  dreadful  subtlety  of  mine. 
Then  he  warily  changed  his  position  in  the  argument,  taking  up  the 
point  of  view  he  had  begun  by  attacking. 

We  changed  about  alternately  for  a  little.  At  one  time,  in  tak- 
ing my  new  stand,  and  asserting  something,  either  I  had  changed 
too  quickly,  or  he  had  not  quite  quickly  enough.  At  all  events, 
when  he  began  speaking,  he  found  himself  agreeing  with  me.  This 
was  a  terrible  moment.  It  was  very  close  quarters.  I  felt  as  one 
does  at  a  show,  standing  on  the  same  chair  with  some  uncertain 
tempered  person  .  I  was  compelled  rapidly  to  disagree  with  him 
and  just  saved  the  situation.  A  moment  more,  and  we  should  have 
fallen  on  each  other,  or  rather,  he  on  me. 

He  buried  his  face  once  more  in  the  sinister  poiton  in  front  of 
him,  and  consumed  the  last  vestiges  of  the  fearful  aliment  at  his 
elbow.    I  felt  the  situation  had  become  perfetcly  blood-curdling. 

We  had  not  been  once  interrupted  during  these  happenings. 
A  dark  man,  a  Spaniard,  I  thought,  had  passed  into  the  kitchen 
along  the  passage.  The  sound  of  bustle  came  to  us  uninterruptedly 
from  within. 

He  now  with  a  snarling  drawl  engaged  in  a  new  discussion  on 
another  and  still  more  delicate  subject.    I  renewed  my  tactics,  he  hii. 

Subject  after  subject  was  chosen,  and  his  voltes-face,  his  change 
of  attitude  in  the  argument,  became  less  and  less  leisurely  and 
more  and  more  precipitate,  until  at  length  whatever  I  said  he  said 
the  opposite  brutally  and  at  once.  But  still  my  cunning  was  too 
great  for  him.  At  last,  pushing  his  chair  back  with  a  frightful  grat- 
ing sound,  and  thrusting  both  his  hands  in  his  pockets — at  this  su- 
preme moment  the  sort  of  large  blank  look  came  back  to  his  face 
again — he  said  slowly: — 

"Waal,  zat  may  be  so — you  say  so — waal!  But  what  say  you 
to  England,  ha!     England! — England!     England!" 

At  last  it  had  come!  He  repeated  "England"  as  though  that 
word  in  itself  were  a  question — unanswerable  question.    "England" 


T he   Little   Review  43 

was  a  question  that  a  man  could  only  ask  when  very,  very  exaspera- 
ted. But  it  was  a  thing  hanging  over  every  Englishman,  the  pos- 
sibility of  having  this  question  put  to  him.  He  might  at  any  mom- 
ent be  silenced  with  it. 

"England!  ha!  England!  England!"  he  repeated  as  though 
hypnotised  by  this  word;  as  though  pressing  me  harder  and  harder 
and  finally  "chawing  me  up"  with  the  mere  utterance  of  it. 

"Why,  mon  vieux!"  I  said  suddenly,  getting  up,  "how  about  the 
South  of  France,  for  that  matter — the  South  of  France,  the  South 
of  France!" 

If  I  had  said  "America"  he  would  have  responded  at  once,  no 
doubt.  But  "the  south  of  France"!  A  look  of  unutterable  vague- 
ness came  into  his  face.  The  south  of  France!  This  was  at  once 
without  meaning,  dispiriting,  humiliating,  paralysing,  a  cold  douche, 
a  stab  in  the  back,  an  unfair  blow.  I  seemed  to  have  drawn  a 
chilly  pall  suddenly  over  the  whole  of  his  mind. 

I  had  fully  expected  to  be  forced  to  fight  my  way  out  of  the 
salle-a-manger,  and  was  wondering  whether  his  pugilistic  methods 
would  be  those  of  Alabama  or  Toulouse — whether  he  would  skip 
round  me  with  his  fists  working  like  piston  rods;  or  whether  he 
would  plunge  his  head  in  the  pit  of  my  stomach,  kick  me  on  the 
chin  and  follow  up  with  the  "coup  de  la  fourchette",  which  consists 
in  doubling  up  one's  fist,  but  allowing  the  index  and  little  finger 
to  protrude,  so  that  they  may  enter  the  eyes  on  either  side  of 
the  bridge  of  the  nose. 

But  he  was  quite  incapable  of  dealing  adequately  with  this 
new  situation.  As  I  made  for  the  door,  he  sat  first  quite  still. 
Then,  slowly,  slightly  writhing  on  his  chair,  his  face  half  turned 
after  me.  The  fact  of  my  leaving  the  room  seemed  to  find  him 
still  more  unprepared,  to  dumfound  him  even  more,  than  my  answer 
to  his  final  apostrophe.  It  never  had  occured  to  him  aonarently, 
that  I  should  perhaps  get  up  and  leave  the  room! — Sounds  came 
from  him,  words  too — hybrid  syllables  lost  on  the  borderland  be- 
tween French  and  English,  which  app>eared  to  signify  protest, 
pure  astonishment,  alarmed  question.  I  got  safely  out  of  the 
kitchen. 

In  the  act  of  liehtiner  my  candle  I  heard  a  nasal  roar  behind  me. 
I  mounted  the  stairs  three  steps  at  a  time,  with  the  hotel  boy  at 
my  heels,  and,  ushered  into  my  room,  hastily  locked  and  bolted  th** 
door. 


L 


44  The    Little    Review 

I  knew  perfectly  well  that  I  had  not  treated  the  little  French- 
man at  all  well.  To  drag  in  France  in  that  way — "the  south  of 
France", — was  brutalising  to  this  tender  flower  of  the  Prairies  oi  the 
West.  But  to  leave  the  room  at  that  point  of  our  conversation,, 
at  that  point  in  our  relationship,  was  still  more  unpardonable. 

My  room  was  at  the  back.  The  window  looked  on  to  the 
kitchen;  it  was  just  over  the  stairs  leading  the  bedrooms  .  From 
that  naturally  unfresh  and  depressing  port-hole  above  the  cauldrons, 
I  could  observe  my  opponent  in  the  murky  half  court,  half  kitchen, 
beneath.  He  looked  very  different,  inspected  from  this  height  and 
distance.  I  had  not  till  then  seen  him  on  his  feet.  His  Yankee 
clothes,  evidently  cut  beneath  his  direction  by  a  Gascon  tailor, 
made  him  look  as  broad  as  he  was  long. 

His  violently  animated  leanness  imparted  a  precarious  and 
toppling  appearance  to  his  architecture.  He  was  performing  a 
war-dance  in  this  soft  national  armour  just  at  present  beneath 
the  sodden  eyes  of  the  Proprietress.  It  had  shuffling  cake-walk 
elements,  and  cacaphonic  gesticulations  of  tJie  Gaul.  It  did  not 
seem  the  same  man  I  had  been  talking  to  before.  He  evidently, 
in  this  enchanted  hotel,  possessed  a  variety  of  incarnations.  Or 
it  was  as  though  somebody  else  had  leapt  into  his  clothes,  which 
hardly  fitted  the  newcomer,  and  was  carrying  on  his  quarrel.  The 
original  and  more  imposing  man  had  disappeared,  and  this  little 
fellow  had  taken  up  his  disorganised  and  overwrought  life  at  that 
precise  moment  and  place,  at  exactly  the  sarne  pitch  of  passion, 
only  with  fresher  nerves,  and  identically  the  same  racial  senti- 
ments as  the  man  he  had  succeeded. 

He  was  talking  to  the  proprietress  in  Spanish — much  more 
correct  than  his  English.  She  listened  with  her  leaden  eyes  crawling 
swiftly  over  his  person,  with  an  air  of  angrily  and  lazily  miking  an 
inventory.  In  his  fiery  attack  on  the  adamantine  depths  of  langour 
behind  which  her  spirit  lived,  he  would  occasionally  turn  and  ap- 
peal to  one  of  the  nearest  of  the  servants,  as  though  seeking  cor- 
roboration of  something.  What  was  he  accusing  me  of?  I  muttered 
rapid  prayers  to  the  effect  that  that  mock-tropical  reserve  might 
prove  unassailable.  For  I  might  otherwise  be  cast  bodily  out  of  the 
Fonda  del  Mundo,  and  in  my  present  worn-out  state,  and  with  a 
dyspeptic  storm  brewing  in  tliis  first  contact  with  primitive  food, 
have  to  seek  another  and  distant  roof.  I  knew  that  I  was  the  object 
of  his  discourse.  \\^at  effectively  could  be  said  about  me  on  so 
short  an  acquaintance?  He  would,  though,  certainly  affirm  that  I 
was  an  extremely  suspicious  character,  unscrupulous,  resourceful,  slip- 


The    Little    Review  45 

pery,  diabolically  cool;  such  a  person  as  no  respectable  hotel  would 
consent  to  harbour,  or  if  it  did,  would  do  so  at  its  peril.  Then  he 
might  have  special  influences  with  the  Proprietress,  be  a  regular 
customer  and  old  friend.  He  might  only  be  saying,  "I  object  to 
that  person;  I  cannot  explain  to  you  how  I  object  to  that  person! 
I  have  never  objected  to  anybody  to  the  same  fearful  degree.  All 
my  organs  boil.  My  kidneys  are  almost  cooked.  I  cannot  ex- 
plain to  you  how  that  Island  organism  tears  my  members  this  way 
and  that.  Out  with  this  abomination.  Oh!  out  with  it  before  I  die 
at  your  feet  from  over-heating  and  plegm!!!" 

This  way  of  putting  it,  the  personal  way,  might  be  more  ef- 
fective. I  went  to  bed  with  a  feeling  of  e.xtreme  insecurity.  I 
thought  that,  if  nothing  else  happened,  he  might  set  fire  to  the 
hotel.  I,  slept  quite  soundly  in  spite  of  the  dangers  obviously 
infesting  this  establishment  for  m.e. 

In  the  morning  breakfast  passed  off  without  incident.  I 
concluded  that  the  complete  American  was  part  of  the  night-time 
aspect  of  the  Fonda  del  Mundo  and  had  fio  part  in  its  more  nor- 
mal day-life. 

The  square  was  full  of  peasants,  the  men  v/earing  dark  blouse 
and  beret  connected  with  Pelota.  Several  groups  were  sitting  near 
me  in  the  salle-a-manger.  A  complicated  arrangement  of  chairs 
and  tables,  like  man  traps  in  their  intricate  convolutions,  lay  out- 
side the  hotel,  extending  a  little  distance  into  the  square.  From 
time  to  time  one  or  more  peasants  would  appear  to  become  stuck, 
get  somehow  caught,  in  these  iron  contrivances.  They  would  then, 
with  becoming  fatalism,  seeing  they  could  not  escape,  sit  down  and 
call  for  a  drink.  Such  was  the  impression  at  least  that  their  gauche 
and  embarrassed  movements  ia  choosing  a  seat  gave  one. 

A  train  would  shortly  leave  for  the  frontier.  I  bade  farewell  to 
the  Patrona,  and  asked  her  if  she  could  recommend  me  a  hotel  in 
Burgos  or  in  Pontaisandra.  Wlien  I  mentioned  Pontaisandra,  she 
said  at  once — "You  are  going  to  Pontaisandra?"  She  turned  with  a 
sluggish  ghost  of  a  smile  to  a  loitering  servant  and  then  said,  "Yes, 
you  can  go  to  the  Burgaleza  at  Pontaisandra,  That  is  a  good 
hotel." 

I  had  told  her  the  night  before  that  my  destination  was  Pont- 
aisandra, and  she  had  looked  at  me  steadfastly  and  resentfully,  as 
though  I  had  said  that  my  destination  v;as  Heaven,  and  that  I 
intended  to  occupy  the  seat  reserved  for  her. 

I  regarded  the  episode  of  the  supper  room,  the  night  before, 
as  an  emanation  of  that  place.    The  Fonda  del  Mimdo  was  a  very 


46  The    Little    Review 


mysterious  hotel,  despite  its  more  usual  aspect  in  the  day  time.  I 
imagined  it  inhabited  by  solitary  and  hallucinated  beings,  like 
my  friend  of  the  night  before —  or  such  as  I  myself  might  have 
become.  The  large  kitchen  staff  was  occupied  far  into  the  night 
in  preparing  a  strange  and  excessive  table  d'hote.  For  the  explan- 
ation of  this  afforded  me  in  the  morning  by  the  sight  of  the 
crowding  peasants  did  not  efface  my  impression  of  midnight.  The 
dreams  caused  by  its  lunches,  the  visions  conjured  up  by  its  suppers, 
haunted  the  place. 

This  is  tiie  spirit  in  which  I  remember  my  over-night  affair. 

When  I  eventually  started  for  the  frontier,  hoping  by  the  in- 
halation of  a  Picadura  to  dispose  my  tongue  to  the  coining  of  fair 
Spanish,  I  did  not  realise  that  the  American  adventure  was  the  pro- 
penitor  of  other  adventures;  nor  that  the  dreams  of  the  Fonda  del 
Mundo  were  to  go  with  me  into  the  heart  of  Spain. 

(  To  be  continued  ) 


JUDICIAL    OPINION 

(Our   Suppressed  October   Issue) 

Margaret   Anderson 

S  EXPLAINED  in  the  last  issue,  our  October  number  has  been 

held  up  by  the  Postoffice  because  of  a  story  by  Wyndham 
Lewis,  called  "Cantleman's  Spring  Mate",  which  the  Postoffice  solici- 
tor judged  to  be  obscene. 

We  took  the  case  to  court,  where  it  was  brilliantly  and,  because 
of  the  irony  of  the  situation,  homourouly  defended.  But  much  to 
our  surprise  a  decision  was  rendered  against  us. 

I  quote  from  the  opinion  of  Judge  Augustus  N.  Hand: 


A 


This  is  a  motion  to  restrain  the  Postmaster  of  New  York  from 
denying  the  use  of  the  mails  to  the  October  issue  of  T/te  Little 
Review.     This  publication  was  supressed  upon   the  advice  of  the" 
solicitor  of  the  Post  Office  Department  on  the  ground  that  it  was  non- 
mailable under  Section  211  of  the  United  States  Criminal  Code  which  3 
provides : 


I 


The    Little    Review  47 

"Every   obsence,    lewd,    or   lascivious,    and 
every  filthy  book,  pamphlet  writing  or  other  pub- 
lication of  an  indecent  character  is  hereby  de- 
clared to  be  non-mailable  matter  and  shall  not  be 
conveyed  in  the  mails  or  delivered  from  any  post- 
office  or  by  any  letter  carrier". 
The  publication  which  is  particularly  objected  to  by  the  Postal 
Authorities  is  a  short  story  about  a  soldier  in  the  British  Army  who 
reflects  upon  the  topsy-turvy  condition  of  the  world  and  feels  that 
gigantic  forces,  which  he  is  pleased  to  call  those  of  nature,  are  ar- 
rayed against  the  individual — forces  that  in  most  cases  will  over- 
power him.    He  regards  his  own  destruction  in  the  present  European 
conflict  as  more  than  likely,  and  under  all  these  conditions  feels  at 
war  with  the  world.    With  satirical  satisfaction  he  seduces  a  young 
girl  and  disregards  her  appeals  when  she  becomes  a  mother  .  In  his 
revolt  at  the  confusion  and  injustice  of  the  war  he  feels  justification 
at  having  wreaked  his  will  and  obtained  his  satisfaction — thus,  as 
he  says,  outwitting  nature. 

It  may  be  urged  that  this  story  points  various  morals.  One 
may  say  it  shows  the  wickedness  of  selfishness  and  indulgence.  An- 
other may  argue  that  it  shows  the  degradation  of  camp  life  and  the 
demoralizing  character  of  war.  It  naturally  causes  a  reflecting  mind 
to  balance  the  heroism  and  self  abnegation  that  always  shines  forth 
in  war,  with  the  demoralization  that  also  inevitably  accompanies  it. 
The  very  old  question  suggests  itself  as  to  the  ultimate  values  of  war. 
But  no  outline  of  the  story  conveys  its  full  import.  The  young 
girl  and  the  relations  of  the  man  with  her  are  described  with  a  de- 
gree of  detail  that  does  not  appear  necessary  to  teach  the  desired 
lesson,  whatever  it  may  be,  or  to  tell  a  story  which  would  possess 
artistic  merit  or  arouse  any  worthy  emotion.  On  the  contrary  it  is 
at  least  reasonably  arguable,  I  think,  that  the  details  of  the  sex  re- 
lations are  set  forth  to  attfpct  readers  to  the  story  because  of  their 
salacious  character.  I  am  of  course  aware  that  mere  description  of 
irregular  things  in  relation  to  sex  may  not  fall  with  the  Statute. 
The  whole  subject  involved  in  this  case  is  beset  with  difficulties 
and  the  duty  of  the  Postmaster  General  in  administering  the  Act  is 
a  most  delicate  one  .  Few  would,  I  suppose,  doubt  that  some  pre- 
vention of  the  mailing  of  lewd  publications  is  desirable,  and  yet  no 
field  of  administration  requires  better  judgment  or  more  circumspec- 
tion to  avoid  interference  with  a  justifiable  freedom  of  expression 
and  literary  development.  I  have  little  doubt  that  numerous  really 
great  writings  would  come  under  the  ban  if  tests  that  are  frequently 


48  The    Little    Review 

current  were  applied,  and  these  approved  publications  doutbless  at 
times  escape  only  because  they  come  within  the  term  "classics", 
which  means  for  the  purpose  of  the  application  of  the  statute,  that 
they  are  ordinarily  immune  from  interference,  because  they  have 
the  sanction  of  age  and  fame  and  usually  appeal  to  a  comparatively 
limited  number  of  readers.  It  is  very  easy  by  a  narrow  and  prudish 
construction  of  the  Statute  to  suppress  literature  of  permanent  merit. 
These  considerations  of  administration,  however,  are  not  for  the 
courts  except  in  cases  where  the  judgment  of  the  Postmaster  General 
has  been  wholly  arbitrary  and  without  fundation. 

While  it  has  been  urged  with  unusual  ingenuity  and  ability 
that  nothing  under  consideration  can  have  the  tendency  denounced 
by  the  Statute,  I  do  not  think  the  complainant  has  made  out  a  case 
for  interfering  with  the  discretion  lodged  in  the  Postmaster  General 
whose  "decision  must  be  regarded  as  conclusive  by  the  courts  unless 
it  appears  that  it  was  clearly  wrong."  Masses  v.  Patten,  N.  Y.  Low 
Journal,  Nov.  5,  1917.  Smith  v.  Hitchcock,  226  U.  S.  58. 

The  motion  is  denied. 

Augustus  N.  Hand. 

It  would  be  ridiculous  for  me  to  conceal  my  complete  disagree- 
ment with  Judge  Hand  and  the  Postoffice.  I  disagree  even  with  the 
best  arguments  that  could  be  presented  in  a  couternporary  court-room 
about  the  merits  of  such  a  story.  Tlie  Little  Review  was  founded  in 
direct  opposition  to  the  prevalent  art  values  in  America  .  It  would 
have  no  function  or  reason  for  being  if  it  did  not  continually  conflict 
with  those  values. 

In  the  first  place  "Cantleman's  Spring  Mate"  is  a  piece  of  litera- 
ture, over  and  beyond  being  merely  a  good  story,  because  its  author 
knows  tlie  difference  between  writing  a  story  and  making  a  piece  of 
prose.  The  latter  means  that  he  is  master  of  the  mysterious  laws  by 
which  words  are  made  into  patterns  or  rhythms,  so  that  you  read 
them  for  the  spirit  contained  in  the  rhythm, — which  is  the  only  way 
of  getting  at  the  context;  which  in  fact  is  a  thing  of  distinct  and 
separate  entity,  existing  above  and  beyond  the  context.  Many  fairly 
good  writers  and  critics  do  not  understand  these  laws.  It  is  not  sur- 
prising that  the  Postoffice  department  does  not  understand  them. 

For  instance,  to  say  that  "Cantleman  walked  in  the  strenuous 
fields,  steam  rising  from  them  as  from  an  exertion"  is  prose;  but  to 
say  that  "Cantleman  took  a  walk  in  the  fields  from  which  steam  was 
rising,  as  if  the  ground  had  been  exerting  itself  in  a  strenuous  strug- 
gle" would  have  no  relation  to  prose.    To  say  "and  sit  forever  in  a 


The    Little    Review  49 


formal  and  gentle  elation"  is  prose;  or  "to  see  this  face  constantly 
was  like  hearing  perpetually  a  cheap  and  foolish  music";  or  "since 
he  was  forced  back,  by  his  logic  and  body,  among  the  madness  of 
natural  things";  or  "and  gaze  bravely,  like  a  minute  insect,  up  at 
the  immense  and  melancholy  night,  with  all  its  mad  nightingales 
and  misty  useless  watchmen", — these  things  come  within  the  laws 
which  separate  what  is  good  from  what  is  bad.  "Good"  and  "bad" 
in  literature  have  no  otiher  connotation  than  this. 

As  for  the  content  of  the  story,  that  is  not  separable  from  its 
fonn,  once  you  grant  it  to  a  piece  of  Art.  But  if  we  must  strip  the 
meaning  from  the  form,  I  could  argue  for  several  days  with  any  one 
who  had  enough  interest  to  listen  to  me.  The  only  intelligible 
things  that  can  be  said  today  in  a  court-room,  arguments  carefully 
calculated  to  meet  the  intellectual  capacity  of  those  who  are  trying  to 
prove  immoral  something  they  cannot  even  understand,  is  that  the 
story  is  a  brutal  one  containing  a  lesson  and  a  terrible  warning,  and 
therefore  salutary  in  its  effect.  If  one  still  thought  about  life  in 
terms  of  destruction  or  salvation,  it  would  be  perfectly  legitimate  to 
say  that  the  influence  of  this  story  would  be  "good"  rather  than 
"bad".  But  one  doesn't  think  in  such  terms  any  more.  Scientists 
have  never  thought  in  such  terms;  neither  have  philosophers.  There 
is  no  law  by  which  the  Postoffice  department  of  any  country  can 
force  scientists  or  philosophers  or  artists  to  think  in  such  terms. 
Some  children,  many  parents,  religious  people,  club  ladies,  roues, 
etc.,  think  this  way.  But  we  cannot  do  it.  I  hope  our  foreign  sub- 
scribers will  forgive  me  the  boredom  and  obviousness  of  these  argu- 
ments. It  is  necessary  in  America.  Our  Postoffice  is  the  supreme 
authority  on  all  matters  of  intellectual  interest. 

I  can  see  nothing  brutal  in  "Cantleman's  Spring  Mate".  I  can 
see  no  warning  or  lesson  in  it.  It  is  a  story  of  two  people  who 
answer  the  call  of  sex.  The  woman  does  it  quite  instinctively,  being 
a  creature  of  instincts;  the  man  does  it  with  certain  intellectual  re- 
servations, being  a  civilized  product.  Both  are  in  the  situation 
merely  because  they  want  to  be  there.  No  force  except  that  of  na- 
ture compelled  them  to  be  there.  Nature  cannot  be  called  either  mor- 
al or  immoral.  The  popular  mind  argues  that  the  girl's  life  is  des- 
troyed. But  nothing  can  "destroy"  life.  Any  life  that  is  capable  of 
being  destroyed,  in  the  popular  sense  of  the  term,  should  be  des- 
troyed. It  might  then  take  on  that  tragic  significance  which  would 
make  it  material  for  Art.  That  these  arguments  may  still  be  re- 
garded as  childish  or  immoral  by  the  majority  of  the  world  is  the 
supreme  human  joke.  That  I  could  be  called  an  "iconoclast"  for 
making  them  is  a  measure  of  conten^)orary  fatuity. 


50  The    Little    Review 


IN    SHADOW 
Hart  Crane 

Out  in  the  late  amber  afternoon, 
Confused  among  chrysanthemums, 
Her  parasol,  a  pale  balloon, 
Like  a  waiting  moon,  in  shadow  swims. 

Her  furtive  lace  and  misty  hair 
Over  the  garden  dial  distill 
The  sunlight, — then  withdrawing,  wear 
Again  the  shadows  at  her  will. 

Gently  yei  suddenly,  the  sheen 
Of  stars  inwraps  her  parasol. 
She  hears  my  step  behind  the  green 
Twilight,  stiller  than  shadows,  fall, 

"Come,  it  is  too  late, — too  late 
To  risk  alone  the  light's  decline: 
Nor  has  the  evening  long  to  wait", — 
But  her  own  words  are  night's  and  mine. 


TJte    l^iitle    Review  51 


VULGAR    INFATUATIONS* 
Israel  Solon 

All  religions  have  this  in  common,  in  that  they  offer  us  an 
escape  from  psychic  tension,  by  eliminating  uncertainty  and 
suspense. 

The  iconoclast  is  more  devout  than  the  priest,  who  is  merely  a 
follower. 

All  our  systems  are  finished  and  dead  systems;  and  all  our 
aws  and  logics  are  human  and  arbitrary,  being  but  the  products  of 
azy  men  infatuated  with  idleness. 

The  artist  cuts  across  the  flowing,  inchoate  and  lawless  and 
articulates  it  into  the  definitive  and  never  changing. 

The  beautiful  realises  our  conceptual  ideals  of  arrested  flow, 
violent  ease,  tense  repose,  —  galloping  tragedy  halted  at  the  climax. 

In  so  far  as  we  love  the  comic  it  is  because  it  enables  us  to 
live  outside,  yet  close  by,  the  stream,  of  life,  in  a  quiet  nook  and 
still  waters. 

Laughter  is  creative,  in  that  it  shows  us  that  the  universe  and 
jurselves  are  two;  laughter  is  the  measure  of  man's  freedom  ,just 
IS  infatuation  is  the  measure  of  his  slavery.  We  laugh  on  suddenly 
discovering  that  we  may  behave  in  our  habituated  way  where  we 
lad  feared  we  should  have  to  learn  new  tricks;  we  laugh  when  the 
lew  and  terrifying  proves  to  be  the  tame  and  familiar;  we  laugh 
lehen,  on  entering  the  lion's  den,  we  find  the  lion  absent. 


^[Editor's  note:  In  our  September  number  we  published  Wyndham 
Lewis's  "Inferior  Religions."  It  is  not  extravagant  to  speak 'of  this 
ssay  as  one  of  the  most  profound  of  our  time.  But  if  there  were  ten 
)eople  in  the  United  States  who  reah'zie.d  this  fact  they  have  not  men- 
ioned  it  to  me.  Some  several  hundred  have  written  to  say  that  they 
:an  find  so  sense  or  interest  in  it  —  that  it  is  quite  unintelligible.  I 
hereupon  asked  Mr.  Solon  (one  of  the  possible  ten  who  appreciated 
he  essay)  to  write  a  digest  of  it  for  the  puzzled  leader.  He  replied: 
'That  is  hardly  possible,  since  Mr.  Lewis  has  himself  condensed  his 
bought  to  the  utmost;  but  I  shall  herewith  attempt  a  restatement 
)f  the  chief  ideas  of  his  essay,  though  without  adhering  to  their 
)riginal  order.     Attend l"] 


52  The    Little    Review 

We  call  a  man  strong  who  has  come  nearest  to  destroylnj?  him- 
self, who  has  succeeded  in  making  an  automaton  of  himself;  we 
consider  a  man  to  be  rising  in  strength  according  as  he  succeeds  in 
transforming  himself  into  a  machine  and  everything  and  everybody 
that  he  deals  with  into  materials  such  as  can  be  worked  by  a  ma» 
chine;  our  conception  of  a  superman  is  one  who  is  able  to  drive  ouf 
of  life  all  that  is  strange,  fantastic  and  wild,  replacing  these  by  the 
known,  the  orderly  and  the  lawabiding — by  the  dull  angels  of  »<i 
Prussian  Paradise. 

Because  we  cannot  see  beyond  the  present,  since  wc  do  not  re- 
member the  beginning  and  do  not  know  Uie  end,  because  we  are  pro- 
pelled by  attractions  and  repulsions,  by  loves  and  hates,  and  not  by 
visible  and  palpable  wires,  we  fail  to  see  that  we  are  but  following; 
out  the  set  figures  of  a  dance,  a  dance  in  which  we  may  take,  but  i 
in  which  we  but  rarely  find,  joy;  and  it  is  only  by  grace  of  our 
ignorance  that  we  are  enabled  to  become  infatuated  with  our  pup- 
pet-like antics,  mistaking  these  for  behavior  that  is  new,  imique, 
personal  and  wilful.    We  chatter  about  the  mountains  of  the  moon, 
about  world-views  and  cosmic  consciousness;  and  are  content  to 
remain  in  utter  ignorance  of  our  neighbor  five  yards  away,  whose 
serene  smile  may  be  screening  a  smoking  vulcano,  a  vulcano  that 
is  perh^s  kept  from  errupting  only  by  our  childish  faith  in  our 
security. 

The  King  of  the  Show  is  not  a  Person  or  Being,  but  an  Ever- 
Prcsent  Menace,  resulting  from  the  fact  that  Life  has  not  alone 
Death  for  neighbor,  but  an  infinity  of  other  neighbors  as  well,  whom 
we  may  crush,  suppress  and  enslave,  but  who  may  one  day  rise  in 
revolt  against  us,  rush  in  upon  us  and  destroy  us;  since,  for  all 
we  know,  all  our  assumptions,  all  our  habits  and  laws,  and  all  the 
wiles  and  tricks  that  we  have  mastered  through  countless  ages  of 
travail  and  pain,  may  at  any  moment  break  down  and  fail  us,  loos- 
ing upon  us  in  one  blinding  flash  the  awful  terror  that  is  without 
face  or  form,  inconceivable  and  unimaginable,  the  appalling  Host 
inhabiting  the  Black  Silence  around  us. 


The    Little    Review  53 


V 


EDITORIAL    ON     SOLICITIOUS    DOUBT* 
Ezra    Pound 

ARIOUS  people  have  expressed  certain  doubts  as  to  whether . 


Good  people,  be  at  rest:  the  price  of  The  Little  Review  will 
lever  be  raised  for  present  subscribers  or  for  those  who  subscribe 
)efore  January  i,  19 18.  After  that  we  can  make  no  promises.  The 
juality  will  not  decline;  if  we  give  "twice  as  much  of  it"  the  new 
eaders  will  have  to  pay  more.  If  we  had  given  you  only  Mr.  Yeats's 
burteen  poems  we  would  already  have  given  you  more  literature 
han  is  to  be  found  in  the  "four  big"  magazines  since  the  beginning 
)f  our  present  volume. 

Mr.  Lewis,  after  having  been  in  some  heavy  fighting  is  now  in  hos- 
)ital,  and  that  leisure  has  made  sure  the  supply  of  his  prose  for  some 
:ime.  I  have  now  at  my  elbow  the  first  eighty-eight  pages  of  the 
)est  book  Ford  Madox  Hueffer  has  written.  Why  "the  best  book"? 
•"ive  years  ago  Mr.  Hueffer  read  me  this  manuscript,  an  unfinished 
work  for  which  there  was  presumeably  "no  market".  I  read  the 
'^tj'pescript  which  was  brought  me  last  evening;  so  familiar  is  the 
text  that  I  can  scarcely  convince  myself  that  it  is  five  years  since  I 
heard  the  even  voice  of  the  author  pronouncing  it.  I  do  not  think 
my  memory  is  particularly  good,  I  think  there  must  be  some  quality 
m  a  man's  style  and  matter  if  it  is  to  stay  fresh  in  another  man's 
mind  for  so  long.  Mr.  Hueffer 's  Women  and  Men  will  run  in 
The  Little  Review  from  January  19 18  to  May  19 19  inclusive,  unless 
interefered  with  by  force  majeur.    Perhaps  it  is  not  his  best  book. 

Lest  there  be  any  confusion  about  Olivers,  Madoxes,  Madox 
Browns,  Francis  Hueffers,  etc.  Ford  Madox  Hueffer  is  the  author 
of  various  novels,  and  of  The  Heart  of  the  Country,  The  Soul  of 
London,  Ancient  Lights,  Collected  Poems,  of  On  Heaven,  the  first 
successful  long  poem  in  English  vers  libre,  after  Whitman.  This 
poem  appeared  in  Poetry  for  June  1914,  and  has  certainly  as  much 
claim  to  permanence  as,  say,  Meredith's  Love  in  the  Valley. 

Besides  his  own  achievement,  Mr.  Hueffer  has  done  one  definite 
service  to  English  letters.  This  service  is  unquestioned,  and  recogni- 
tion of  it  does  not  rest  upon  any  personal  liking  or  disliking  of 

*  Repeated  from  the  October  number. 


54  The    Little    Review 

,  I 

Mr.  Hueffer's  doctrines  of  writing.    In  1908  he  founded  The  English 
Review;  for  a  year  and  a  half  he  edited  that  magazine  and  during 
that  time  he  printed  work  not  only  by  the  great  men  of  letters,  Ana- 
tole  France,  Thomas  Hardy,  Swinburne,  Henry  James,  not  only 
by  men  of  public  reputation  like  Wells,  and  Conrad  and  Bennett,  but 
also  by  about  all  the  younger  men  who  have  since  made  good. 
For  example  by  Lewis  (in  1909),  and  by  other  now  well-known 
young  men  who  have  both  made  good  and  declined  since  that  date. 
His  editorship  of  the  review  marks  a  very  definite  period;  at  the 
end  of  it,  as  its  glory  was  literary,  not  commercial,  it  was  bought 
by  certain  jews,  who  thought  Mr.  Hueffer  a  damn  fool  (possibly 
because  of  his  devotion  to  literature),  and  who  gave  the  editorship 
into  other  hands.     Comparison  of  current  numbers  of  The  English  , 
Review  with  the  first  numbers  issued  from  84  Holland  Park  Avenue,  t 
will  give  any  thinking  person  all  the  data  he  wants  in  deciding  be-  k 
tween  the  folly  of  Hueffer  and  the  folly  of  manufacturing,  political  | 
hebrews.     In  fact,  if  a  crime  against  literature  could  bring  any  ' 
shame  upon  that  class  of  person,  this  family  would  go  into  penitence, 
which  needless  to  say  they  will  not.    But  the  careful  historian  of  lit- 
erature will  record  and  remember  their  shame.    The  files  of  the  re- 
view being  stored  in  the  British  Museum,  the  data  will  continue  avail- 
able.   There  will  be  no  faking  the  records. 

The  Little  Review  is  now  the  first  effort  to  do  comparitively 
what  The  English  Review  did  during  its  first  year  and  a  half:  that 
is,  to  maintain  the  rights  and  position  of  literature,  I  do  not  say  in 
contempt  of  the  public,  but  in  spite  of  the  curious  system  of  trade 
and  traders  which  has  grown  up  with  the  purpose  or  result  of  in- 
terposing itself  between  literature  and  the  public. 

We  act  in  spite  of  the  public's  utter  impotence  to  get  good  liter- 
ature for  itself,  and  in  despite  of  the  efforts  of  the  "trade"  to  satiate 
the  public  with  a  substitute,  to  still  their  appetite  for  literature  hy 
providing  them,  at  a  cheaper  rate  and  more  conveniently,  with  a 
swallowable  substitute. 

Whereanent  a  very  successful  journalist  has  said  to  me:  We 
i.  e.  we  journalists,  are  like  mediums.  People  go  to  a  spiritist 
seance  and  hear  what  they  want  to  hear  .  It  is  the  same  with 
a  leading  article:  we  write  so  that  the  reader  will  find  what  he  wants 
to  find. 

That  is  the  root  of  the  matter;  there  is  good  journalism  and 
bad  journalism,  and  journalism  that  "looks"  like  "literature"  and 
literature  etc  ...  . 

But  the  root  of  the  difference  is  that  in  journalism  the  reader 
finds  what  he  is  looking  for,  what  be,  the  reader  wants;  whereas 


The    Little    Review  55 

in  literature  he  must  find  at  least  a  part  of  what  the  author  in- 
tended. 

I'hat  is  why  "the  first  impression  of  a  work  of  genius"  is  "nearly 
always  disagreeable",  at  least  to  the  "average  man".  The  public 
loathe  the  violence  done  to  their  self-conceit  whenever  an  author 
conveys  to  them  an  idea  that  is  his,  not  their  own. 

This  difference  is  lasting  and  profound.  Even  in  the  vaguest  of 
poetry,  or  the  vaguest  music,  where  in  a  sense  the  receiver  may,  or 
must,  make  half  the  beauty  he  is  to  receive,  there  is  always  some- 
thing of  the  author  or  composer  which  must  be  transmitted. 

In  journalism,  or  the  "bad  art"  which  is  but  journalism  thinly 
disguised,  there  is  no  such  strain  on  the  public. 


THE  READER  CRITIC 

Longfellow's  "Birthplace"  is  in  the  act  of  being  preserved  to  the 
nation.  The  White  House,  the  two  living  ex-whitehouses,  the  State 
of  Maine  (prohibition),  the  Senate  (not  dry  by  any  long  extended  tra- 
dition), various  governors,  not  including  those  of  North  and  South 
Carolina,  have  spotted  up  their  selected  dollars,  or  perhaps  being 
vice-presidents  they  have  not  been  asked  to  spot  up,  for  the  reser- 
vation and  preservation  of  the  "rare  old  colonial  mansion"  inhabited 
Dy  Longfellow  before  the  birth  of  his  whiskers.  The  house  wherein 
this  eminently  moral  and  eminently  proper  and  eminently  "suitable 
for  the  school-child"  luminary  mewled  and  peuked,  is  to  be  taken  on 
as  national  shrine,  by  the  "International  Longfellow  Society",  and 
the  mortgage  on  it  removed. 

It  is  not  proposed  that  the  house  should  be  made  an  official  resi- 
dence for  some  living  Longfellow,  some  worthy,  elderly,  more  or  less 
broken-down  emeritus;  for  let  us  say,  Edwin  Markham,  who  would, 
of  course,  ortiament  any  shrine  with  a  venerable  and  befitting  ap- 
pearance. 

It  is  in  fact  an  eloquent  tribute  to  the  popular  lust  after  some 
place  where  they  can  leave  orange  peel,  and  feel  that  they  have 
"shown  reverence",  without  troubling  their  cerebra  with  such  detiH 
as  standards  of  literature. 

Longfellow  was  the  ideal  poet  for  a  prohibitionist  state.  It  is 
however  interesting  to  note  how  the  diverse  pieties  have  gathered 
about  his  remains. 

Cardinal  O'Connel  writes:  "To  all  who  love  beautiful  sentiments 
admirably  expressed,  the  works  of  Longfellow  are  dear;  but  they  are 


56  The    Little    Review 


especially  dear  to  the  hearts  of  Catholics.  At  a  time  when  the  Church 
was  little  understood  and  less  appreciated,  Longfellow,  with  true  re- 
ligious insight,  placed  before  the  reading  public  the  fervor  of  the 
Church's  spirit  and  the  lofty  idealism  of  its  mission.  His  beautiful 
poems  help  to  make  our  faith  better  understood  and  appreciated." 
("Fervor"  is,"  of  course,"  le  mot  juste). 

The  United   Society  of  Xtn.   Endeavour  writes:   "I   spent   seven  j 

very  happy  years  in  Portland The  site  of  this  old  home,  and  5 

memories  which  it  will  arouse,  will  be  an  inspiration  to  many  young  \ 
people  in  all  the  future  years,  to  live  a  worthy  poem  if  they  cannot  ! 
write  one."  Faithfully  yours,  Francis  E.  Clark. 

Rabbi  Enlow  writes:  "My  admiration  for  the  work  of  the  poet 
makes  my  appreciation  more  keen.  Longfellow,  like  Browning,  wa» 
one  of  the  poets  who  were  alive  to  the  grandeur  and  heroism  of  Jew- 
ish history,  as  is  witnessed  by  several  of  his  best-known  poems.  Thit 
has  added  to  his  popularity  with  Jewish  readers." 

(News  Item:  A  point  of  similarity  between  Browning  and  Long- 
fellow has  at  last  been  described  on  the  horizon. — E.  P.) 


A   Difference   of  Opinion 

M.  T.,  Chicago: 

If  you  really  do  like  criticisms,  may  I  ask  why  you  can't  mix  in 
with  your  London  stuflf  a  little  other  stuf??  Perhaps  the  London  stuff 
might  be  "shown  up"?  Well!  In  any  event  this  is  my  sincere  cor- 
rect opinion:  you  need  very  badly  a  warmer  quality  in  your  magazine. 
I'm  not  speaking  about  "emotion",  "human  interest",  "life",  etc.  But 
you  cannot  make  me  believe  that  Art  is  not  vital.  Now  I  am  sayingi 
that  there  is  very  little  which  might  truly  be  called  vital  in  the  last 
issue.  The  play  of  course  is  good.  Bodenheim  is  readable — usually. 
However  you  can't  depend  on  Bodenheim  to  put  any  of  this  "big 
line  sweep"  into  your  pages.  He  is  merely  one  of  those  happy  "holi* 
days"   in   a   real   snappy  water-color. 

A.  S.,  New  York:  | 

"As  for  Bodenheim,  he  is  so  bone  ignorant. 

His  general  claim  is  passable,  or  good  enough,  but  the  needlcssi 
remark  about  "words  practically  ignored  by  writers  of  Christian 
«ra" 


T he    Little    Review  57 

This  is  the  kind  of  thing  that  weakens  terribly.  Bodenheira 
imply  doesn't  know  any  literature,  foreign  or  english.  Half  the  latins 
rere  of  the  christian  era.  Periods  in  Italian,  Chinese,  Gongorism  in 
Ipain,  Euphues  in  England,  to  say  nothing  of  all  the  Mallarmeen 
eriod  in  France,  and  the  Parnassians.  (To  say  nothing  of  Stirling 
unk  in  a  welter  of  verbosity  and  proclaimed  by  Bierce  in  America 
en  years  ago!)  All  these  sets  of  people  intent  on  words,  and  most 
£  them  much  more  skilled  in  them  than  Bodenheim. 

I  don't  mind  his  blowing  off  his  rather  unoriginal  opinions,  but 
heer  hoggish  ignorance  ought  to  be  barred. 

The  Waley  transaltions  look  to  me  the  best  Chinese  we  have  had 
I  English  save  a  couple  of  things  in  "Oathay." 


Ezra's  Indian  Summer 

What  was  the  tune  you  heard  on  tho  way 
that  you  must  dawdle  here, 
cut  a  reed  like  any  truant, 
cut  crooked  holes  in  the  reed, 
and  dabble  with  burbling  phrases 
which  can  only  tremble  and  halt 
no  matter  how  fearfully  carefully  you  blow? 
The  tune  you  heard  didn't  limp? 
Time,  you're  a  dunce. 
My  word  on  it  — 
you  should  have,  could  hare 
breathed  echo  when  the  air  was  near  — 
now  it's  a  wraith 
beyond  even  tiny  embodiment! 
That  amorphous  haze,  ^ 

arpeggic  fall  of  those  leaves, 
glint  of  that  bird  —  or  was  it  a  squirrel?  — 
they  ought  to  preach  your  heedlessness  — 
had  it  been  a  rat  it  would  have  bitten  you! — 
no  man  can  essay  a  pavanne 
with  his  phrases  at  variance  — 


58  The    Little    Review 

it  is  a  pavanne,  don't  deny  it  I 

And  why  propose  a  pavanne 

when  nobody  dances  pavannes, 

and  why  ask  a  flute 

to  mime  the  tone  of  a  spinet? 

Dear  dunce  — 

your  tune  begins  to  sound  feminine  — 

go  away  — 

the  phrases  are  exquisite  daggers  — 

move  along,  move  along  — 

we  have  all  sought  the  same  lady  twice  I 

Alfred   Krtymborg 


Advice  tq  a  Young  Poet  | 

The  following  letter  may  interest  many  aspiring  poets:  "^ 

"The  opening  sentence  of  your  not;^  shows  a  lamentable  unfami- 
liarity  with  the  work  of  Homer,  Villon  and  Catullus  ....  not  to  men- 
tion such  lesser  lights  as  Dante,  Gautier,  Cavalcanti,  Li  Po,  Omar, 
Corbiere,  or  even  Shakespeare  (to  cite  a  familiar  example).  You 
are  evidently  ignorant  as  Ham  of  both  prose  and  poetry.  You  ap- 
pear to  have  read  next  to  nothing.  Stendhal,  Fielding,  Flaubert, 
Brantome, — what  have  you  read  or  studied  anyhow? 

How  do  you  expect  to  make  yourself  interesting  to  men  who 
have   hammered   their   minds   hard   against   this   sort   of   thing? 

And  as  for  what  is  called  "knowledge  of  the  human  heart"?  It 
needs  intellect  as  well  as  intuition. 

If  you  knew  more  of  what  had  been  done,  you  wouldn't  expect 
to  make  people  fall  before  you  in  adoration  of  what  you  take  to  be 
"new  and  colourful  combinations",  but  which  people  of  wider  reading 
find   rather  worn  and  unexciting. 

You  began  with  a  certain  gift,  a  sort  of  emotionee  decorativcness, 
vide  small  boy  by  brick  wall,  impressions  of  scenes,  etc.  That's  all 
very  well,  and  very  nice,  but  what  the  hell  do  you  know  or  feel  that 
we  haven't  known  and  felt  already?  On  what  basis  do  you  propose 
to  interest  us? 

There's  plenty  of  this  decoration  in  Spenser  and  Tasso,  etc.,  etc., 
in  French  of  the  last  half  century,  1850 — 1900,  etc.  AND  one  is  fed 
up  with  it. 

If  you  could  persuade  yourself  to  read  something,  if  you  could 
persuade  yourself  really  to  find  out  a  little  about  the  art  you  dab  at 
....  you  might  at  the  end  of  five  years  send  me  something  interesting. 


[ 

The    Little    Review  59 

The  fact  that  you  like  pretty  things  does  not  distinguish  you 
from  500,000  ather  people,  young  impressionist  painters  still  doing 
not-quite-Monet,  etc.,  etc. 

Lewis,  Joyce,  Eliot  all  give  me  something  F  shouldn't  have 
noticed  for  myself. 

You  won't  better  your  art  by  refusing  to  recognize  that  at 
twenty-four  you  haven't  knocked  the  world  flat  with  admiration  of 
your  talents.  You  simply  haven't  begun  the  process  by  which  the 
young  person  of  temperament  hammers  itself  into  an  artist  (or  into 
nothing,  depending  on  the  capacity  for  being  self-hammered  inherent 
in  the  personal  substance). 

You  might  begin  on  Aristotle's  Poetics,  Longinus  "on  the  Sub- 
lime, Dante's  De  Vulgari  Eloquio.  Scattered  remarks  of  Coleridge 
and  De  Quincey,  and  the  early  elizabethan  critics  would  do  you  no 
harm.  You  also  need  to  educate  yourself,  as  said  above,  in  both 
prose  and  poetry. 

Because  the  native  American  has  nearly  always  been  too  lazy  to 
take  these  preliminary  steps,  we  have  had  next  to  no  native  writing 
[worth  anything. 

Mastering  an  art  does  not  consist  in  trying  to  bluff  people.  Work 
shows;  there  is  no  substitute  for  it;  holding  one  theory  or  another 
[doesn't  in  the  least  get  a  man  over  the  difficulty,  etc.,  etc 

Poetry  has  run  off  into  Gongorism,  concetti,  etc,,  at  various  times, 
odd  words,  strained  metaphors  and  comparisons,  etc.,  etc.  We  know 
perfectly  well  all  about  that.  At  twenty  I  emitted  the  same  kind  of 
asinine  generalities  regarding  Christianity  and  its  beauties  that  you 
now  let  off  about  poetry." 


Will    You    Help? 

The  suppression  of  the  October  issue  has  cut  into  our 
business  plans  terribly.  It  was  an  especially  good  number, 
from  which  we  hoped  to  get  a  lot  of  new  subscribers. 

Won't  you  help  us  now  by  renewing  your  subscription 
promptly,  if  it  has  expired,  and  by  urging  your  friends  to 
subscribe  at  once? 

If  you  are  interested  in  what  we  are  trying  to  do,  won't 
you  help  us  to  retrieve  this  loss  by  sending  any  donation 
that  you  can  afford? 


rr 


In    Greenwich    Village,    New    York 


In  the  Webb  Van  Dam  you  will  see 

WEB 

Just  a  place  to  have  your  tea 

VAN 

There  you  are  taken  by  the  hand                  * 
To  a  Wigwam  in  No  Man's  Land 

DAM 

There  you  have  a  nice  young  feller 

To  guide  you  down  to  the  cyclone  cellar 

I  Sheridan 

Crullers  with  cider  you'll  eat  and  drink 
Then  home  you'll  go  to  sit  and  think 

Square 

And  in  your  dreams  you'll  seem  to  be 

• 

A  Greenwich  Villager  just  like  me. 

THE  SHERIDAN 
SQUARE  SHOP 

A  New  Place 

Flowers— Art  Objects 

131  Washington  Place 
On  Sheridan  Square 

Telephone:  Spring  586 ^^ 
New   York    City 


ROBERT  EDWARDS 

announces   a    Hook    of    tlie    Songs 
he   sings  about   th«  Village. 

Fifteen  Songs : 

Words,    music,    pictures. 
Preface,    biography,    {ootnotes. 

Price:  Two  Dollars 

To  be  sold  by   subscription. 
Send   check   to 

46  Washington  Square 


Don't  forget 

THE    GARDEN    OF 
PARADISE 

WEBSTER    HALL 

December  25 
Telephone:  Spring  1875 


THE        Come 
OPEN       Dance  and 

nnop       ^^  ^-^""^ 

U\J\Jt\  ,n  Bohemia 

Ever}'  evening  from  8  P.  M 
Light  refreshments 

134  W.  Fourth  Street 


\ 


In    Greenwich    Village,   New    York 


IlillllllUlUlllllllH 


THE    QUILL 

A  Magazine  of  Greenwich  Village 
Announces  the  Publication  of  a  folio 

GREENWICH  VILLAGE  by  its  ARTISTS 

Fifteen  Sketches  and  Photographs  by 

HUGH  FERRISS,  MAUD  LANGTREE. 
FOREST  MANN  and  GLENN  O.  COLEMAN 

and  a  Map  of  the  Village. 

The  Cover  has  been  designed  by  HAROLD  TRUE. 
Two  Dollars  Postpaid  from  ARTHUR  H.  MOSS 

at  143  West  Fourth  Street,  New  York  City. 


THE   SAMOVAR 

"Through   the   alley, 

up  the  stairs, 

and  over  the  roof.'* 

Luncheon         Dinner 

148  W.  Fourth  Street 
New  York  City 


THE  DUTCH  OVEN 

135-139  MacDougal  Street 
GREENWICH   VILLAGE 

Spring    S9^2 

Lunch,  Tea,  Dinner 

Table  d'hote  and  A  la  Carte 

On  Sunday:  Chicken  or  beef 

Steak  Dinner 


THE 
HEARTHSTONE 

of  Greenwich  Village 

124  ^^^^  4^lt  Street 

A  LA  Carte  Table  d'hote 

Delicious  home  cooking 

Attractive  Open  Fires 


THREE    STRUNSKY 
RESTAURANTS 

the    WASHINGTON    SQUARE 

restaurant 

(first    floor) 

THE    WASHINGTON    SQUARE 

CAFETERIA 

(just    opened — first    floor) 

THE    GREENWICH     VILLAGE 

CAFETERIA 

("Three  Steps  Down") 

All   at    19    West    8th    Street 

Better  than  home  cooking 


In    Greenwich    Village,    New    York 


A  GROUP  of  SHOPS,  GALLERIES, 
AND  TEA  ROOMS  IN  THE  CENTER 
OF  NEW  YORK'S   LATIN  QUARTER 


Exhibition  of  Drawings  and 

Paintings 

by  ALEXANDER  BROOK 

at  Aladdin  Gallery 

Dec.   I — Jan.   ! 

Sheridan    Square    North 
at  133  Washington  Place 


RUSSIAN    TEA    ROOM 

133  Washington  Place 

Midnight      lunches,      Coffee, 

Tea    Dancing,   Special 

Dinners  to  order 


YE 
5tLt10UtTU 
-5«0PP£- 


LUNCH 
DINNER 

Sunday 

morning 

breakfast 

Doughnuts, 
Gingerbread, 
I        Waffles 

142  W.  4  St. 


THE    LITTLE 
SEA-MAID 

sells     Dolls,     Toys,     and     Pictures 
and   serves   Sea-food   to  her   guests. 

Oyster    Cocktails,    Fried 

Shrimps,  Oyster  Stew. 

Tea,     Coffee     Chocolate 

Home-made     Cake,     Chinese 

Rice  Cakes. 

167   West   Fourth  Street 


ROMANY    MARIE 

The  Roumanian  Peasant  Inn 

133  Washington  Place 

Roumanian   delicacies  and 
Turkish  coffee 


PUSS  IN   BOOTS 

Will  Serve 
BREAKFAST,  LUNCH 

and  DINNER 

at  57  West  10th  Street 

Afternoon  Tea,  After  Dinner . 

Coffee 

Light  Refreshments 


Shop  of  pure  Russian  atmos- 
phere, with  unique  Russian 
brass  and  copper,  pots  and 
boxes,  blouses,  hats,  scarfs, 
and    Russian    tea. 

244  Thomson  Street,   just  off  Washington  Square 


LITTLE  RUSSIA 

FANIA  MINDELL 


The    Little    Review 


63 


Your 
Gift 


//  you  have  friends  who  have  heard  of 
civilization,  friends  who  are  impatient  with 
the  near-literature  of  the  mouldy  standard 
magazines  and  the  dahblings  of  the  literary- 
fashion-magazines,  send  them  The  Little 
Review  for  Christmas.    They  will  bless  you! 


Interesting  New  Books  for  Discriminating  Readers 


Docs  This  Amazing  Novel 
Forecast  the  Way  to  Peace? 

THE  COMING 

By  J.  C.  Snaith  ^  .     ^ 

A  soldier,  wounded,  war  weary,  who  has  learned  m  the 
trenches  to  forget  the  meaning  of  hate;  »  village  vicar,  voicmg 
the  venom  of  those  who  do  not  fight;  and  John  Smith,  simple 
determined,  working  for  the  brotherhood  of  man-around  these 
three  characters  the  author  of  "The  Sailor"  has  wrU^en^ 
amazing  novel  of  the  spiritual  and  eUucal  ^'^^  ^    '^'^^''^^ 


The  Wind  in  the  Com 

By  Edith  Franklin  Wvatt 
Song  poems  of  Democracy  and 
the  great  Trails  that  sound  a 
note  of  hope  and  honest  labor. 
$1.50  net 

Great  Companions 

By  Edith  Franklin  Wyatt 
A  delightful  discussion  of  the 
personalities  of  a  dozen  great 
writers.  $i-SO  Mt 

Out  of  Their  Own  Mouths 

With  an  introduction  by 
WiLUAM  RoscoE  Thayer 
An  accurate  translation  of  of- 
ficial German  letters  and  docu- 
ments which  prove  conclusive- 
ly how  and  why  the  Prussians 
began  the  war.  $1.00  n^t 

The  Latin  at  War 

By  Will  Irwin 
An    intimate    account    of    the 
author's  experiences  in  France 
and  Italy  during  the  great  war. 
$1.75  tiet 


Summer 

By  Edith  Wharton 

A  vivid  story  of  life  in  a  small 

bill  town.  $1-50  net 

Susan  Lenox:  Her  Fall 

and  Rise 
By  David  Graham  Phillips 
"America  has  to  its  credit  one 
more  great  novel,  perhaps  the 
greatest     since    'The     Scariet 
Letter'  "^Minneapolis  Journal 

Two  vols,  boxed,  $2.50  net 

The  Red  Badge  of  Courage 

By  Stephen  Crane 
New    edition    with    an    Intro- 
duction by  Arthur  Guy  Empey 
"This  is  not  a  story  of  war: 
It  is  War."  $100  net 

The  Quest  of  Ledgar 
Dunstan 

By  Alfred  Tresidder  Sheppard 
An  acute  study  of  a  drifter, 
who  seeks,  and  in  the  end, 
finds,  himself.  $150  net 


At  All  Booksellers     These  Are  Appleton  Books 
D.  Appleton  and  Company^  Publishers.  New  York 


A 


.^   i 


:•>  r\  n.  ; 


If  in    I.iii::     RFVIFW   BOOKSHOP 


;aa 


st  Fen  el  I 
<i  tound,     ^^-7 5. 
Love  Pf>em.s  of 
\  rrliare?!.  translated  h 

I'J'inl.    S\<tni)ii'i,    iiHil 


/  Dun. Klin 


I*  the  C'oucjuei'or, 

'!>t    .huifn.on    A' 


Miscellaneous 

Henri  /'■ 


'    ii.illll  K-|      iM  I 

James  J  over 


rrinik'   ti 


»<!i<;t   hi'  arri'wp,n\iril   hv  ,tn  i'vrr(f'< 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

1  Hodenhriin 

/ 1  IS .    i  / 

,'  \'  .,'(    ( idiirm  nit 
•ir.  It\'  \\'vivlli;im  ' 

j  rsi  vuv: 

li  ■,.;);,  II 
1.'    1 

,nnl    \                                           IIiK'rr.r 

1 

int, 

TIIF 

on 

Ll'I            UEVIEW   BOOKSHOP 

11  W" 

York  City 

"^Jrlt^ 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO  COMPROMISE  WITH  THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


THE  STRADIVARIUS  OF  PIANOS 

313   nFTH  AVENUE 
NEW  YORK 


EUGENE  HUTCHINSON 
PHOTOGRAPHS 

Fine  Arts  Building 
Michigan  Boulevard 
Chicago,  Illinois 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


JANUARY,  1918 

Impovisations  William  Carlos  Williams 

Three  Views  of  H.  L.  Mencken : 

America's  Critic  Raoul  Root 

Mr.  Mencken,  Philistine  jh 

Mr.  Mencken's  Truisms  Margaret  Anderson 

The  Convalescent  in  the  South  Jessie  Dismorr 

Women  and  Men,  I.  Ford  Madox  Hiieffer 

Incidents  in  the  Life  of  a  Poet  John  Rodker 

A  Soldier  of  Humour,  II.  Wyndham  Lewis 

Thoughts  from  a  Country  Vickerage 
The  Reader  Critic: 
Vachel  Lindsay 
The  Quintuple  Effulgence 
Ezra  Pound's  Critics 
Announcements 

Copyright,    1918,    by    Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  New  York 

Foreign  office: 

5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London  W.  S. 

15  cents  a  copy  $1.50  a  year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  O.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


JAMES  JOYCE 

in   "THE   LITTLE   REVIEW" 

I  have  just  received  the  first  three  instalments 
of  James  Joyce's  new  novel  which  is  to  run 
serially  in  The  Little  Review,  beginning  with 
the  March  number. 

It  is  called  "Ulysses". 

It  carries  on  the  story  of  Stephan  Dedalus,  the 
central  figure  in  "A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as 
a  Young  Man". 

It  is,  I  believe,  even  better  than  the  "Portrait". 

So  far  it  has  been  read  by  only  one  critic  of 
international  reputation.  He  says:  "It  is  cer- 
tainly worth  running  a  magazine  if  one  can  get 
stuff  like  this  to  put  in  it.  Compression,  in- 
tensity. It  looks  to  me  rather  better  than 
Flaubert". 

This  announcement  means  that  we  are  about 
to  publish  a  prose  masterpiece. 

Owing  to  the  delays  in  tlie  mails  during  the 
holidays  the  last  number  oj  "THE  LITTLE 
REVIEW"  did  not  reach  many  people  until 
very  late  in  the  month,  and  our  announcement 
oj  a  raise  in  price  came  too  late  to  allow  them 
to  act  upon  it.  We  therefore  extend  the  offer 
until  February  lo.  Any  one  subscribing  on 
or  before  that  date  may  have  the  magazine 
at  the  $1.50  rate. 

After  February  10  the  price  will  be  raised  as  follows: 

Yearly  subscription, $.2.50 

Single  copies, 25  cents 

Canadian   subscriptions,  -  -  $2.75 
Foreign  subscriptions, 12/ 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

VOL.IV.    ■  JANUARY,   1918  No.  9 

;^  *^|  IMPROVISATIONS 

•  William  Carlos  Williams 

I. 


So  far  away  August  green  as  it  yet  is.  They  say  the  sun  still 
comes  up  o'rnornings  and  it's  harvest  moon  now.  Always  one  leaf  at 
the  peak-twig  swirling,  swirling  and  apples  rotting  in  the  ditch. 


My  wife's  uncle  went  to  school  with  Amundsen.  After  he  Amund- 
sen returned  from  the  South  Pole  there  was  a  Scandinavian  din- 
ner, which  bored  him  Amundsen  like  a  boyhood  friend.  There 
was  a  young  woman  at  his  table,  silent  and  aloof  from  the  rest.  She 
left  early  and  he  restless  at  some  impalpable  delay  apologised 
suddenly  and  went  off  with  two  friends,  his  great,  lean  bulk  twitch- 
ing agilely.  One  knew  why  the  poles  attracted  him.  Then  my 
wife's  mother  told  us  the  same  old  thing,  of  how  a  girl  in  their  vil- 
lage jilted  him  years  back.  But  the  girl  at  the  supper  !  Ah — that 
comes  later    when  we  are  wiser    and  older  ! 


What  can  it  mean  to  you  that  a  child  wears  pretty  clothes  and 
speaks  three  languages  or  that  its  mother  goes  to  the  best  shops? 
It  means:  July  has  good  need  of  his  blazing  sun.  But  if  you  pick 
one  berry  from  the  ash  tree  I'd  not  know  it  again  for  the  same  no 
matter  how  the  rain  washed.  Make  my  bed  of  witch-hazel  twigs, 
said  the  old  man,  since  they  bloom  on  the  brink  of  winter. 


The    Little    Review 


II. 

I 

Mamselle  Day,  Mamselle  Day,  come  back  again!  Slip  your  cloth^ 
off, — the  jingling  of  those  little  shell  ornaments  so  deftly  faste* 
ed  —  !  The  streets  are  turning  in  their  covers.  They  smile  with 
shut  eyes.  I  have  been  twice  to  the  moon  since  supper  but  she  has 
nothing  to  tell  me.    Mamselle    come  back,  I  will  be  wiser  this  time. 

If  one  should  catch  me  in  this  state!  —  wings  would  go  at  a  bargain. 
Ah  but  to  hold  the  world  in  the  hand  then  —  Here's  a  brutal 
jumble.  And  if  you  move  the  stones,  see  the  ants  scurry.  But  it's 
queen's  eggs  they  take  first,  tax  their  jaws  most.  Burrow  burrow, 
burrow  !  there's  sky  that  way  too  if  the  pit's  deep  enough  —  so 
the  stars  tell  us. 

Lulla-by!  Lulla-by!  the  world's  pardon  writ  in  letters  six  feet  high! 
So  sleep,  baby,  sleep! 

2  * 

How  smoothly  the  car  runs.  And  these  rows  of  celery,  how  they 
bitter  the  air  —  winter's  authentic  fore-taste.  Here  among  these 
farms  how  the  year  has  aged,  yet  here's  last  year  and  the  year 
before  and  all  years.  One  might  rest  here  time  without  end,  watch 
out  his  stretch  and  see  no  other  bending  than  spring  to  autumn, 
winter  to  summer  and  earth  turning  into  leaves  and  leaves  into 
earth  and  —  how  restful  these  long  beet  rows,  —  the  caress  of  the 
low  clouds,  — the  river  lapping  at  the  reeds.  Was  it  ever  so  higbi 
as  this,  so  full?  How  quickly  we've  come  this  far.  Which  way  is 
north  now?  North  now?  why  that  way  I  think.  Ah  here's  the 
house  at  last,  here's  April,  but  —  the  blinds  are  down!  It's  alt 
dark  here.  Scratch  a  hurried  note.  Slip  it  over  the  sill.  WelLl 
some  other  time. 

How  smoothly  the  car  runs.  This  must  te  the  road.  Queer  how 
a  road  juts  in.  How  the  dark  catches  among  those  trees!  How  the 
light  clings  to  the  canal!  Yes  there's  one  table  taken,  we'll  not  be 
alone.  This  place  has  possibilities.  Will  you  bring  her  here?  Per* 
haps  —  and  when  we  meet  on  the  stair,  shall  we  speak,  say  it  ii 
some  acquaintance  — or  pass  silent?    Well,  a  jest's  a  jest  but    ho# 

•  s 


The    Little    Review 


yooT  this  tea  is.  Think  of  a  life  in  this  place,  here  in  these  hills  by 
;hese  truck-farms.  Whose  life?  Why  there,  back  of  you.  If  a 
voman  laughs  a  little  loudly  one  always  thinks  that  way  of  her.  But 
low  she  bedizens  the  country-side.  Quite  an  old  world  glamour.  If 
t  were  not  for  —  but  one  cannot  have  everything.  What  poor 
ca  it  was.  How  cold  it's  grown  .  Cheering,  a  light  is  that  way 
imong  the  trees.  That  heavy  laugh  !  how  it  will  rattle  these 
)ranches  in  six  week's  time. 


rhe  fronti^iece  is  her  portrait  and  further  on,  —  the  obituary 
iermon:  she  held  the  school  upon  her  shoulders.  Did  she.  Well  — 
;urn  in  here  then:  —  we  found  money  In  the  blood  and  some  in 
he  room  and  on  the  stairs.  My  God  I  never  knew  a  man  had  so 
nuch  blood  in  his  head  !  —  and  thirteen  empty  whisky  bottles.  I 
im  sorry  but  those  who  come  this  way  meet  strange  company.  This 
s  you  see  death's  canticle. 

III. 


Jeatiful  white  corpse  of  night  actually  !  So  the  north-west  winds 
>f  death  are  mountain  sweet  after  all!  All  the  troubled  stars  are 
>ut  to  bed  now:  three  bullets  froip  wife's  hand  none  kindlier:  in 
Jie  crown,  in  the  nape  and  one  lower:  three  starlike  holes  among 
million  pocky  pores  and  the  moon  of  your  mouth:  Venus 
upiter,  Mars  and  all  stars  melted  forthwith  into  this  one  good 
vhite  light  over  the  inquest  table,  —  the  traditional  moth  beating 
ts  wings  against  it  —  except  there  are  two  here.  But  sweetest  are 
he  caresses  of  the  County  Physician, — a  little  clumsy  perhaps — mats 
— !  and  the  Prosecuting  Attorney,  Peter  Valuzzi  and  the  others,  wav- 
ng  green  arms  of  maples  to  the  tinkling  of  the  earliest  ragpicker's 
)ells.  Otherwise — :  kindly  stupid  hands,  kindly  coarse  voices,  infin- 
tely  soothing,  infinitely  detached,  infinitely  beside  the  question, 
estfully  babbling  of  how,  where,  why  and  night  is  done  and  the 
preen  edge  of  yesterday  has  said  all  it  could. 


!t  is  the  water  we  drink.    It  bubbles  under  every  hill.     How? 
Vgh,  you  stop  short  of  the  root .    Why,  caught  and  the  town  goes 


The    Little    Review 


mad.  The  haggard  husband  pirouettes  in  tights.  The  wolf  lean  wife 
is  rolling  butter  pats:  it's  a  clock  striking  the  hour.  Pshaw,  they 
do  things  better  in  Bangkok,  —  here  too,  if  there's  heads  together. 
But  up  and  leap  at  her  throat  !  Bed's  at  fault  !  Yet  —  I've  seen 
three  women  prostrate,  hands  twisted  in  each  others  hair,  teeth 
buried  where  the  hold  offered.  —  not  a  movement,  not  a  cry  more 
than  a  low  meowling.  Oh  call  me  a  lady  and  think  you've  caged  me. 
Hell's  loose  every  minute,  you  hear?  And  the  truth  is  there's  not 
an  eye  clapped  to  either  way  but  someone  comes  off  the  dirtier 
for  it.  Who  am  I  to  wash  hands  and  stand  near  the  wall?  I  confess 
freely  there's  not  a  bitch  littered  in  the  pound  but  my  skin  grows 
ruddier.  Ask  me  and  I'll  say:  curfew  for  the  ladies.  Bah.  two  in 
the  grass  is  the  answer  to  that  gesture.  Here's  a  text  for  you: 
Mao.y  daughters  have  done  virtuously  but  thou  exccUest  them  all  ! 
And  so  vou  do.  if  the  manner  of  a  walk  means  anythini^  You  walk 
in  a  different  air  from  the  others,  —  though  your  husband's  the 
better  men  and  the  charm  won't  last  a  fortnight:  the  street's  kiss 
parried  again.  But  give  thought  to  your  daughters'  food  at  mating 
time,  you  good  men.  Send  them  to  hunt  spring  beauties  beneath  the 
sod  this  winter,  —  otherwise:  hats  off  to  the  lady  !  One  can  afford 
to  smile. 


Marry  in  middle  life  and  take  the  young  thing  home.  Later  ui  the 
year  let  the  worst  out.  It's  odd  how  little  the  tune  changes.  Do 
worse  —  till  your  mind's  turning,  then  rush  into  repentance  and 
the  lady  grown  a  hero  while  the  clock  strikes. 

Here  the  harps  have  a  short  cadenza.  It's  sunset  back  of  the 
new  cathedral  and  the  purple  river  scum  has  set  seaward.  The  car's 
outside.  I'd  not  like  to  go  alone  tonight.  I'll  pay  you  well.  It's 
the  king's  evil.  Speed  !  Speed  !  The  sun's  self's  a  chancre  low 
in  the  west.  Ha,  how  the  great  houses  shine  —  for  old  time's  sake! 
For  sale!  For  sale!  The  town's  gone  another  way.  But  I'm  not 
fooled  that  easily.  Fort  sale  !  Fort  sale  !  if  you  read  it  aright. 
And  Beauty's  own  head's  on  the  pillow,  a  la  Muja  Desnuda  !  0 
Contessa  de  Alba  !  Contessa  de  Alba  !  Never  was  there  such  a  lewd 
wonder  in  the  streets  of  Newark  !  Open  the  windows  —  but  all's 
boarded  up  here.  Oud  with  you,  you  sleepy  doctors  and  lawyers 
you,  —  the  sky's  afire  and  Calvary  Church  with  its  snail's  horns  up, 
sniffing  the  dawn  —  o'  the  wrong  side  !  Let  the  trumpets  blare  ! 
Tutti  i  instrumenti !    The  world's  bound  homeward.  • 


The    Little    Review 


IV. 


Of  course  history  is  an  attempt  to  make  the  past  seem  stable  and  of 
course  it's  all  a  lie.  Nero  must  mean  Nero  or  the  game's  up.  But 
-^  though  killies  have  green  backs  and  white  bellies,  zut !  for  the 
bass  and  hawks  !  When  we've  tired  of  swimming  we'll  go  climb 
in  the  ledgy  forest.    Confute  the  sages. 


Quarrel  with  a  purple  hanging  because  it's  no  column  from  the 
Parthenon.  Here's  splotchy  velvet  set  to  hide  a  door  in  the  wall 
and  there  —  there's  the  man  himself  praying  !  Oh  quarrel  whether 
'twas  Pope  Clement  raped  Persephone  or  —  did  the  devil  wear  a 
mitre  in  that  year?  Come  there's  much  use  in  being  thin  on  a 
windy  day  if  the  cloth's  cut  well.  And  oak  leaves  will  not  come 
on  maples,  nor  birch  trees  either  —  that  is,  provided  — ,  but  pass 
it  over,  pass  it  over. 

3 

Think  of  some  lady  better  than  Rackham  draws  them:  mere  fairy 
stuff,  —  some  face  that  would  be  your  face,  were  you  of  the  right 
sex,  some  twenty  years  back  of  a  still  morning,  —  some  Lucretia 
out  of  the  Vatican  turned  Carmelite, — some  double  image  cast  over  a 
Titian  Venus  by  two  eyes  quicker  than  Titian's  hands  were,  —  some 
strange  daughter  of  an  inn-keeper,  —  some  .  .  .  Call  it  a  net  to  catch 
love's  twin  doves  and  I'll  say  to  you:  Look!  and  therell  be 
the  sky  there  and  you'll  say  the  .sky's  blue.  Whisk  the  thing  away 
now  1    What's  the  sky  now? 

V. 

I 

It  is  still  warm  enough  to  slip  from  weeds  into  the  lake's  edge, 
your  clothes  blushing  in  the  grass  and  three  small  boys  grinning 
behind  the  derelict  hearth's  side.  But  summer  is  up  among  the 
huckleberries  near  the  path's  end  and  snake's  eggs  lie  curling  in 
the  sun  on  the  lonely  summit.  But  — well  —  let's  wish  it  were 
higher  after  all  these  years  staring  at  it  dq)lore  the  paunched 
clouds      glimpse  the  sky's  thin  counter  crest  and  plunge  into  the 


The     Little     Review 


gulch.  Sticky  cobwebs  tell  of  feverish  midnights.  Crack  a  rock 
(what's  a  thousand  years!)  and  send  it  crashing  among  the  oaks! 
Wind  a  pine  tree  in  a  grey-worm's  net  and  play  it  for  a  trout; 
oh  —  but  it's  the  moon  does  that!  No,  summer  has  gone. down  the 
other  side  of  the  mountain.  Carry  home  what  we  can.  What  have 
you  brought  off?     Ah  here  are  thimble  berries. 


The  little  Polish  Father  of  Kingsland  does  not  understand,  he  cannot 
understand.  These  are  exquisite  differences  never  to  be  resolved. 
He  comes  at  mid-night  through  mid-winter  slush  to  baptise  a  dying 
newborn;  he' smiles  suavely  and  shruggs  his  shoulders:  a  clear  middle 
A  touched  by  a  master  —  but  he  cannot  understand  .  And  Benny, 
Sharon,  Henrietta  and  Josephine,  what  is  it  to  them?  Yet  jointly 
they  come  more  into  the  way  of  the  music.  And  white  haired  Miss 
Ball!  The  empty  school  is  humming  to  her  little  melody  played 
with  one  finger  at  the  noon  hour  but  it  is  beyond  them  all.  There 
is  much  heavy  breathing,  many  tight  shut  lips,  a  smothered  laugh 
whiles,  two  laughs  cracking  together,  —  three  together  sometimes 
and  then      a  burst  of  wind  lifting  the  dust  again. 


What  I  like  best's  the  long  unbroken  line  of  the  hills  there.  Yes, 
it's  a  good  view.  Come,  let's  visit  the  orchard.  Here's  peaches 
twenty  years  on  the  branch.  Not  ripe  yet!  ?  Why  —  !  Those 
hills  !  Those  hills  !  But  you'ld  be  young  again  !  Well,  fourteen's 
a  hard  year  for  boy  or  girl,  let  alone  one  older  driving  the  pricks 
in,  but  though  there's  more  in  a  song  than  the  notes  of  it  and  a 
smile's  a  pretty  baby  when  you've  none  other  —  let's  not  turn 
backward.  Mumble  the  words,  you  understand,  call  them  four 
brothers,  strain  to  catch  the  sense  but  have  to  admit  it's  in  a  lang- 
uage they've  not  taught  you,  a  flaw  somewhere,  —  and  for  answer: 
well,  that  long  unbroken  line  of  the  hills  there. 

Coda 

Squalor  and  filth  with  a  sweet  cur  nestling  in  the  grimy  blankets  of 
your  bed  and  on  the  better  roads  striplings  dreaming  of  wealth 
and  happinesss.     Country  life  in  America  !     The  crackling  grackle 


The    Little    Review 


that  dartled  at  the  hill's  bottom  have  joined  their  flock  and  swing 
with  the  rest  over  a  broken  roof  toward  Dixie. 


VI. 


Some  fifteen  years  we'll  say  I  served  this  friend,  was  his  valet 
nurse,  physician,  fool  and  master:  nothing  too  menial  —  to  say  the 
least.    Enough  of  that:  so. 

Stand  aside  while  they  pass.  This  is  what  they  found  in  the  rock 
when  it  was  cracked  open:  this  finger  nail.  Hide  your  face  among 
the  lower  leaves,  here's  a  meeting  should  have  led  to  better  things 
but  —  it  is  only  one  branch  out  of  the  forest  and  night  pressing  you 
for  an  answer  !  Velvet  night  weighing  upon  your  eye-balls  with 
gentle  insistence;  calling  you  away,  —  Come  with  me,  now,  tonight! 
Come  with  me  !       now      tonight  .  . 


You  speak  of  the  enormity  of  her  disease,  of  her  poverty.  Bah, 
these  are  the  fiddle  she  makes  tunes  on  and  it's  tunes  bring  the 
world  dancing  to  your  house  door,  even  on  this  swamp  side.  You 
speak  of  the  helpless  waiting,  waiting  till  the  thing  squeeze  her 
windpipe  shut.  Oh,  that's  best  of  all,  that's  romance  —  with  the 
devil  himself  a  hero.  No  my  boy.  You  speak  of  her  man's  callous 
stinginess.  Yes,  my  God,  how  can  he  refuse  to  buy  milk  when  it's 
alone  milk  that  she  can  swallow  now?  But  how  is  it  she  picks 
market  beans  for  him  day  in  day  out,  in  the  sun,  in  the  frost?  You 
understand?  You  speak  of  so  many  things,  you  blame  me  for  my 
indifference.  Well,  this  is  you  see  rny  sister  and  death,  great  death, 
is  robbing  her  of  life.    It  dwarfs  most  things. 


Hercules  is  in  Hacketstown  doing  farm  labor.  Look  at  his  hands 
if  you'll  not  believe  me.  And  what  do  I  care  if  yellow  and  red 
are  Spain's  riches  and  Spain's  good  blood,  here  yellow  and  red  mean 
simply  autumn  !  The  odor  of  the  poor  farmer's  fried  supper  is 
mixing  with  the  smell  of  the  hemlocks,  mist  is  in  the  valley  hugging 
the  ground  and  over  Parsippany  —  where  an  oldish  man  leans  talk- 
ing to  a  young  woman — the  moon  is  swinging  from  its  star. 


10  The    Little    Review 


THREE  VIEWS  OF  H.  L.  MENCKEN* 

("A   Book  of   Prefaces") 

Raoul    Root 

AMERICA  has  "at  last  produced"  a  critic,  or  rather  a  native 
American  critic  has  at  last  succeeded  in  extricating 
his  mind  from  his  surroundings  to  such  a  degree  as  to  be  able  to 
envisage  the  said  surroundings.  This  does  not  mean  that  we  have 
coughed  up  a  new  aesthete  who  will  remurmur,  in  rather  more  veiled 
and  semidiaphanous  tones,  the  same  velleities  which  Arthur  Symons 
uttered  in  1891. 

H.  L.  Mencken  has  read  his  Mark  Twain,  It  is  a  great  bles- 
sing that  at  last  some  one  with  fibre  tough  enough  to  read  Mark 
Twain,  and  intelligence  enough  to  perceive  the  part  which  is  not 
simple  "Hee-Haw",  has  at  last  diagnosed  Mark  Twain's  trouble. 
Pages  203-5  of  Mr.  Mencken's  book  show  him  to  be  a  critic  of  no 
mean  profundity.  In  these  pages  Mr.  Mencken  (or  Dr.  Kellner  to 
whom  he  refers)  has  given  a  correct  diagnosis.  He  has  put  his  finger 
on  the  plague  spot  My  own  detestation  of  Twain  has  stayed  vague 
for  a  number  of  years;  there  were  too  many  more  important  things 
to  attend  to;  I  could  not  be  bothered  to  clarify  this  patch  of  vagueness- 
A  detestation  of  a  man's  tonality  does  not  necessitate  a  blindness  to 
his  abilities.  And  when  a  man's  rightnesses  have  been  so  lied  against 
as  Twain's  were  in  America,  one  could  be  well  content  to  conceal  a 
private  and  unimportant  detestation.  One  could  not  express  a  dis- 
like of  any  man,  for  instance,  whose  posthumous  publications  have 
been  so  lied  about  and  distorted  as  Twain's  final  p>essimistic  expres- 
sions. 

Mencken  is  in  some  circles  considered  a  purely  frivolous  person 
because  he  edits,  of  half  edits,  a  frivolous  magazine.  In  a  half- 
baked  country  one  has  to  use  what  tools  one  can  lay  hold  of.  I 
would  call  one  fact  to  the  attention  of  the  cognoscenti:  namely,  that 
The  Smart  Set  is  the  only  magazine  in  America  that  has  ever  reduced 
a  circulation  from  70,000  to  20,000  in  a  quixotic  attempt  to  break 
through  the  parrochial  taboo  and  give  America  free  literatue. 


*A  Book  of  Prefaces,  by  H.  L.  Mencken.  Alfred  A.  Knopf,  New  York.    , 


I 


The    Little    Review  ii 


I  have  it  on  personal  knowledge  that  Willard  Huntington  Wright 
went  to  London  about  five  years  ago  determined  to  buy  up  the  best 
stuff  he  could  find.  I  do  not  in  the  least  mean  to  imply  that  Mr. 
Wright  and  I  would  see  eye  to  eye  in  questions  of  excellence,  I  may 
reserve  my  opinion  that  literature  is  not  a  commodity,  that  literature 
emphatically  does  not  lie  on  a  counter  where  it  can  be  snatched  up  at 
once  by  a  straw-hatted  young  man  in  a  hurry. 

An  editor  pleased  with  "Oz3anandias",  or  with  the  fifth  act  of 
"The  Cenci",  might  have  rushed  up  to  Shelley,  for  example,  and 
found  nothing  in  that  worthy's  desk  but  "The  Sensitive  Plant"  (than 
which  no  poet  of  any  reputation  ever  penned  anything  less  desira- 
ble). Moreover,  the  better  the  author  the  greater  his  detestation  of 
magazines  and  the  less  likely  he  is  to  believe  in,  or  take  the  slightest 
interest  in  the  success  of,  any  magazine  for  which  he  has  not  some 
very  personal  security  in  his  own  private  knowledge  of  the  editors 
and  the  business  management. 

Let  us  remember  that  David  Phillips  had  been  shot  by  a  fanatic, 
that  various  living  writers  were  under  contract  elsewhere;  and  that 
The  Smart  Set  did  publish  some  of  the  first  stories  of  James  Joyce 
and  some  of  the  first  short  stories  of  D.  H.  Lawrence.  Also  that 
Wright  resigned  reasonably  soon  after  he  found  that  he  was  not  free 
in  his  selection. 

These  huge  mechanisms  have  to  be  kept  going,  if  they  are  to  re- 
main huge  mechanisms;  in  that  condition  they  can  be  of  very  little 
service  to  literature  until  there  is,  what  is  almost  unthinkable,  a 
"really  large"  public  intensely  interested  in  literature. 

The  point  I  wish  to  emphasize,  in  part  replying  to  the  people 
who  object  to  being  asked  the  pertinent  question  regarding  Whistler 
and  Henry  James  and  their  protracted  foreign  residence,  is  that  New- 
York  has  a  critic  dealing  with  native  affairs.  Graham  Phillips  dealt 
with  native  affairs,  in  a  style  as  crude  as  the  types  he  depicted.  He 
was  painful  to  read,  but  he  was  working  in  honesty;  and  he  was  shot 
by  a  fematic  (not  a  New  Englander).  I  don't  know  that  he  had 
been  taken  very  seriously.  Dreiser  is  taken  seriously  because  the 
violent  opposition  to  him  has  been  longer;  it  has  not  been  settled  at 
the  point  of  a  pistol. 

In  all  this  the  American  hatred  of  liberty,  their  peculiar  loathing 
of  all  forms  of  intellectual  freedom,  is  striking  and  apparent.  The 
last  study  in  Mencken's  book  is  full  of  fruitful  suggestion;  one  ani- 
madverts to  Franklin  and  Jefferson  and  remembers  how  carefully 
they  are  screened  in  school  histories;  how  few  Americans  looking 
back  upon  the  glory  of  America's  founder  have  the  slightest  notion 


12  The    Little    Review 


\ 


of  Franklin's  ideas  upon  God,  or  of  Jefferson's  ideas  upon  dalliana 
(Still  they  are  represented  in  the  standard  school  histories  as  men  c 
great  brilliance  and  acumen).  Washington's  intelligence  is,  I  b» 
lieve,  left  unmentioned,  as  are  his  personal  law-suits  regarding  cej 
tain  acerage. 

On  page  218  Mr.  Mencken  falls  heavily,  treats  W.  D.  Howel 
and  Henry  James  together,  and  shows  a  total  inability  to  get  an 
further  with  Henry  James  than  the  mentioning  of  a  limitation  whic 
Henry  James  had  himself  better  defined.  I  venture  to  suggest,  ver 
simply,  that  Mr.  Mencken  has  read  very  little  of  the  author,  an 
that  he  is  so  intent  on  his  main  theme  (wherein  he  is  right  in  th 
main)  that  he  has  rather  warped  his  idea  of  James  to  his  own  parti( 
ular  purpose  and  treated  one  superficial  aspect  rather  than  James  i 
toto.  If  this  error  is  not  an  oversight  on  Mr.  Mencken's  part, 
allies  him  to  the  philistines  he  inveighs  against,  and  shows  him  bit  b 
the  very  baccilus  that  he  is  out  to  exterminate, — adding  perhaps  b 
this  very  misfortune  to  the  cogency  of  his  warning. 

With  the  excision  of  this  one  excessive  page,  the  essay  can  b 
recommended  as  a  necessary  text  book  in  all  high-schools,  wherei 
there  is  now  current  too  little  plain-written  history. 

We  should  be  grateful  to  Mr.  Mencken  for  the  actual  names  c  ] 
the  "dozen  men",  page  294.  His  history  at  this  point  is  importar  | 
enough  to  be  worth  a  little  documentation. 

Mencken  in  this  part  of  his  book,  at  least,  is  guarded  and  care 
ful  in  his  statements ,  Whether  he  can  preserve  this  gravity  of  ton 
sufficiently  to  be  really  effective,  whether  he  is  indeed  what  his  ac 
versaries  would  call  "the  chosen  instrument  of  the  Lord's  vengeanc 
upon  them",  I  do  not  know;  but  his  book  is  at  least  enough  to  con 
vince  one  that  whatever  America's  part  in  world  war ,  and  whateve 
its  results  to  her ,  she  is  faced  at  home  witli  a  no  less  serious  war  fo 
internal  freedom  ,  and  for  the  arteries  and  capillaries  of  freedom 
the  mail-routes  and  presses  . 

It  is  a  sinister  and  significant  fact  that  even  a  campaign  for  th' 
freedom  of  art  becomes  in  American  a  "campaign",  a  sort  of  super 
religious  crusade  ;  so  does  the  actual  genius  of  the  country  ,  th< 
actual  volk-geist,  enforce  its  forms  upon  contemporary  expression 

(As  ever  in  prose  ,  compare  for  example  the  wholly  mediaeva 
and  limited  Dante  of  the  prose  works ,  modeled  by  and  comforminj 
with  his  time ,  with  the  lasting  Dante  who  flashes  out  of  the  emoi 
tional  passages  in  poetry  ....  passages  which  form  only  a  part  a 
his  terza  rima). 


The    Little    Review  13 


Mr.    Mencken,    Philistine 

To  a  person  who  has  not  had  the  advantage  of  American  ances- 
y  and  American  traditions,  it  is  at  first  a  little  confoundmg,  but 
Iter  it  becomes  quite  right  and  logical,  that  Mr.  Mencken  should 
e  the  critic  of  just  the  men  and  things  he  has  chosen  to  criticize, 
[is  treatment  of  Henry  James  does  not  seem  to  me  an  error  but 
ither  the  stamp  of  the  true  democratic  inability  to  distinguish 
jreeds"  of  things.  Here  he  is  writing  in  the  best  manner  of  the 
len  he  criticizes. 

•Mr   Mencken's   Truisms 
Margaret   Anderson 

In  the  real  sense,  I  believe,  Mr.  Mencken  cannot  be  considered 
>  critic  at  all. 

A  critic  does  not  believe  that  because  an  author's  work  is  free 
attempts  to  edify,  to  console,  to  improve,  or  to  moralize,  the  author 
free  of  the  chief  lacks  which  stand  in  the  way  of  art.  Mr.  Men- 
en  believes  this  :  read  the  generalizations  in  his  chapter  on  Con- 
id;  read  his  estimate  of  Dreiser.  A  critic  is  not  conscious  that  art 
as  ever  got  mixed  up  with  such  matters,  or  that  the  absence  of  such 
latters  would  in  any  way  help  art  to  creep  in.  But  Mr.  Mencken 
ills  Winston  Churchill's  Richard  Carvel,  "within  its  limits,  a  work 
f  art",  and  The  Inside  0}  the  Cup,  because  it  is  an  outpouring  of  so- 
al  and  economic  panaceas,  "no  more  than  a  compendium  of  paralogy^ 
5  silly  and  smattering  as  a  speech  by  William  Jennings  Bryan  or  a 
locker  by  Jane  Addams".  Of  course  the  first  has  no  more  art  than 
16  second.  It  is  a  charming  and  dashing  story  But  how  did  it  come 
)  be  dragged  into  a  modern  discussion  of  aesthetics  ? 

Next,  a  critic  is  not  interested  in  the  old  discussions  as  to  whether 
deft  craftmanship"  makes  an  artist.  But  Mr.  Mencken  talks  always 
ith  a  residue  of  these  old  and  very  unessential  distinctions  in  the 
ack  of  his  mind.  So  when  he  comes  to  Kipling  he  grants  him  the 
raftmanship,  etc.,  but  says  he  is  not  an  artist  in  the  sense  that  Con- 
id  is  because  his  ideas  are  those  of  a  mob  orator,  while  Conrad's 
leas  plough  down  into  the  sub-strata  of  human  motive  and  act.    All 


14  The     Little     Review 


this  explains  the  difference  in  the  minds  of  the  two  men.    It  does  not 
touch  upon  the  difference  in  what  they  have  made. 

A  critic  does  not  talk  of  "beauty  per  se"  and  of  pure  artists." 
He  makes  no  distinctions  between  art  and  pure  art,  for  the  reason 
that  there  are  none. 

A  critic  is  concerned,  first,  last,  and  always,  with  art  emotions. 
Human  emotions  interest  him.  but  he  does  not  confuse  the  two. 
Mr.  Mencken  does  almost  nothing  else.  His  valutions  are  nearly 
all  those  of  the  "radical";  that  is,  of  the  man  who  takes  more 
naturally  to  ideas  than  to  quality.  This  explains  his  feeling  about  , 
Chopin;  also  his  remark  about  Lizst's  "plebian  warts",  which  were 
no  more  plebian  than  his  finely-cut  nose;  and  his  description  of  Poe's 
"congenital  vulgarity  and  shoddy  soul".  These  things  hurt  you  aS' 
fiercely  as  all  the  other  talk  you  hear  from  people  who  are  con- 
genitally  unaware  of  quality. 

A  critic  could  no  more  summarize  Dreiser's  limitations,  as  Mr. 
Mencken  very  ably  does,  and  then  call  Dresier  an  artist  than  he 
could  call  an  airship  that  didn't  fly  a  successful  airship.  To  prove 
that  Dreiser  gets  his  effects  not  by  designing  them  but  by  living 
them,  etc.,  etc.,  and  then  that  he  "manages"  to  produce  works  of  syt 
of  unquestionable  beauty  and  authority,  is  amusing.  To  say  that  he 
is  still  in  the  transition  stage  between  Christian  Endeavor  and  civi-  ' 
lization.  that  his  steps  are  made  uncertain  by  a  guiding  theory  which  i 
too  often  eludes  his  own  comprehension, — to  show  him  in  fact  as  > 
an  ungrown,  un-self conscious,  muddled,  evangelical,  naive  man  with 
"a  solemnly  absurd  respect  for  Bouguereau",  etc.,  etc..  and  then  to  say 
that  he  can  interpret  life  in  a  way  that  is  poignant  and  illuminating, 
is  pathetic  .  Just  as  pathetic  as  the  naive  explanation  of  why  Schu- 
bert was  an  artist,  "though  he  was  an  ignoramus  even  in  music" — 
which  is  merely  talking  like  the  college  professors  whom  Mr.  Men- 
cken scorns.  Even  they  have  long  been  silent  before  the  phenome- 
non that  a  man  may  be  ignorant  and  still  be  a  creator.  What  business 
has  a  modern  critic  to  be  interested  in  such  truisms  ? 

Mr  Mencken's  book  should  be  read  because  ,of  its  chapter  on 
American  puritanlsm.  Aside  from  that  there  are  other  things  in  it 
which  may  be  useful  for  America  as  a  statement  of  facts  up  to  a 
point  But  as  a  piece  of  aesthetic  criticism  it  will  have  no  interest 
any  where  else.  There  is  not  an  ounce  of  original  discrimination 
in  it. 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  15 

THE  CONVALESCENT  IN  THE  SOUTH 
Jessie  Dismorr 

Out  of  the  evil  tangle  of  waters  a  faggot  is  tossed  on  to  a  couch 

of  foam. 
I  am  bedded  in  the  silken  winter  of  the  south:  storm  and  fever 

have  ebbed  away. 
Oh,  the  lull  of  this  security!     I  am  emptied  of  my  old  violences. 
Never  more  will  delirium  nor  ecstacy  shake  the  perilous  nerve  of 

the  brain. 
T3n-anny  has  elicited  sweetness;  my  eyes  are  dark  with  fidelity; 
Dog-like,  I  nuzzle  at  the  knee  of  Power. 
Why  should  I  disdain  prescription  and  advice? 

Docile  I  drag  my  body  over  yellow  paths  .  .  . 
With  ribbons  and  webs  of  sunlight  that  quaint  effigy  of  bones  is 

garlanded,  the  warmth  pricks  and  pickles  its  coat  of  membrane. 
Caught  at  my  breast,  the  frail  rainbow  of  possibilities  strains  like 

a  shimmering  scarf. 
Frensh  games  and  ameliorations!     This  taste  for  delicate  finery  is 

a  new  thing. 
Once  like  a  gay  circus-rider  I  paraded  the  fine  animal  that  belonged 

to  me.     All  its  bells  and  trappings  clapping,  it  played  its 

superb  pranks. 
Oh,  the  rapt  performance  in  a  well  of  round  eyes  and  lifted  palms  1 
Oh,  the  perfectly  centarlized  stupidity  of  the  arrived  artiste  ! 
The  adoption  of  this  novel  aestiietic  punishes  like  a  graft  of  new 

bone. 
I  am  the  victim  of  my  solitary  perfectioning. 
Dismayed,  I  watch  the  coloured  company  of  boon  delights  roll  away 

in  a  rattle  of  wheels  and  dust. 
The  involuntary  stare  of  my  elevation  has  cowed  the  Creole  and 

inconsequent  mob. 
Oh,  hilarity  of  the  senses  !     oh,  colour,  enormity,  ostentation  of 

gold,  your  term  has  come  ! 


i6  The    Little     Review 


A  tardy  primitivism  supersedes  the  Renaissance  of  gifts. 
The  superb  nullity  of  the  body  no  longer  arrogates  command. 
Reactive  to  disaster,  it  must  assume  the  lesser  style  of  the  inanimate. 
In  it,  as  in  a  blackened  tower,  I  sit  morose  and  intelligent,  the 

reconnoitrances  of  my  fine  wits  brinigng  me  flesh  and  honey. 
I  no  longer  turn  under  my  tongue  the  cud  of  intensive  valuations. 
Wings  carry  my  provision:    vicissitude  and  long  transit  produce 

strange  flavourings. 
My  appetite  covets  the  secrets  of  ten  million  lives  in  lieu  of  my 

virginal  stupidity. 
Perfection  alone  balances  perfection.     My  loss  must  be  paid  with 

omniscience  and  final  concepts. 
I  have  abandoned  the  banality  of  choice;  I  pursue  the  last  intimacy 

with  any  stranger. 
My  personality  unhedged  admits  the  travelling  seeds  and  dust  of 

unnumbered  cultures. 
Observation  is  no  longer  a  complacent  and  mirroring  lake; 
It  is  a  flame,  blown  by  the  spirit:  nothing  eludes  the  thrust  of  its 

streaming  tongues. 
Oh,  happiness,  I  have  not  yet  done  with  you!     By  all  means  I  must 

preserve  the  attenuated  thread  of  life. 
I  drag  my  body  over  yellow  paths.    The  sunlight  folds  my  emaciation 

in  a  thread  of  gold. 


The    Little    Review  17 


WOMEN   AND  MEN 

Ford  Madox  Hueffer 

I.    H  0  n  o  u  r 

THE  OTHER  DAY  an  author  of  some  position  came  to  me  in  a 
state  of  great  anger.  He  had  been  asked  by  a  woman-writer 
to  compose  a  preface  for  her  volume  of  short  stories  that  was  newly 
to  appear.  My  friend  H  had  written  the  preface.  He  had  dilated 
on  the  fact  that  publishers  said  the  short  story  in  volume  form  did 
not  sell.  He  had  gone  on  to  say  that  probably  the  publishers  were 
right.  But  that  was  because  short  stories  in  England  are  simply  not 
good  enough,  and  he  adduced  the  fact  that  when  short  stories  were 
really  first  rate  they  sold  in  quantities  really  enormous.  He 
instanced  Messrs  A,  B,  and  C, — all  authors  of  short  stories  with 
huge  publics;  then  he  went  on  to  talk  of  the  stories  by  the  lady 
herself.  He  told  me  that  he  had  made  a  good  job  of  it  and  I  dare 
say  he  had.  The  epilogue  came  when  the  publishers  of  the  volume 
flatly  refused  to  print  the  preface.  They  said  that  no  honourable 
publisher  would  publish  a  word  against  any  other  publisher  and 
they  flatly  refused  to  print  in  a  volume  published  by  them  any 
flattering  reference  to  anj^  author  not  published  by  them.  The  au- 
thors A  B  and  C  whom  my  friend  H  had  mentioned  with  admiration 
were  all  published,  that  is  to  say  ,by  other  firms. 

My  friend  H  was  exceedingly  infuriated.  He  said  that  it  was 
an  outrage  to  ask  anybody  to  write  a  preface  for  nothing  and  then 
to  cavil  at  its  contents.  He  said  that  if  publishers  were  to  refuse  to 
publish  any  comments  on  the  habits  of  publishers  they  would  thus 
be  establishing  a  censorship  which  was  utterly  against  all  decency; 
under  the  cloak  of  it  they  would  be  able  of  course  to  commit  any 
outrage.  And,  if  all  publishers  were  going  to  set  up  the  pretention 
that  in  a  book  published  by  them  no  work  by  any  author  appearing 
through  another  publisher  could  ever  be  praised,  there  would  be  an 
end  of  criticism  since  criticism  only  exists  by  means  of  comparison. 
And  Mr.  H's  fury  became  enormous  when  he  spoke  of  the  authoress. 
He  said  that  this  was  what  came  of  having  to  do  with  women.  He 
said  that  no  woman  had  any  principles  whatever. 


i8  The     Little     Review 


The  trouble  was  that  Miss  W  —  the  woman  writer  in  question, 
—  had  not  been  really  excessively  pleased  with  my  friend  H's  pre- 
face. She  had  expected  him  to  devote  the  whole  of  that  piece  of 
writing  to  her  own  merits.  She  had  wanted  enormities  of  praise. 
Now  my  friend  H  happened  to  be  a  particularly  intimate  friend  of 
Miss  W.  He  said  that  one  cannot  apply  butter  with  a  trowel  to 
the  works  of  one's  intimates  .  It  was  not  the  thing  to  do;  it  was  not 
honorable  ;  it  was  not  even  polite.  Miss  W  on  the  other  hand 
wanted  to  know  what  a  friend  was  for  if  he  could  not  praise  one's 
books. 

Miss  W  put  up  no  sort  of  fight  against  the  publisher.  She  just 
let  Mr.  H's  preface  drop.  It  seemed  to  her  that  it  was  reasonable 
that  publishers  should  refuse  to  allow  other  publishers  to  be  com- 
mented on.  She  even  said  that  that  was  why  men  got  on  better 
than  women.  They  stuck  together  and  realised  that  dog  does  not 
eat  dog.  And  she  was  quite  on  the  side  of  the  publishers  in  their 
refusing  to  have  anything  to  do  with  praising  other  publishers' 
authors.  She  said  that  that  was  business  common  sense  and  that 
that  again  was  why  men  got  on  better  than  women.  They  kne^v 
the  ropes  better  and  she  got  in  a  nasty  shot  by  asking  why  it  was 
that  my  friend  H  got  prices  three  times  better  for  his  books  while 
she  had  a  public  twice  as  large. 

At  this  point  of  his  tale  my  friend  H  swore  violently.  He  said 
again  that  this  was  what  came  of  having  to  do  with  women.  Miss  W, 
he  said,  if  she  had  been  a  man  would  have  withdrawn  her  book  un- 
conditionally from  the  publishers.  She  would  not  have  permitted  him 
to  be  insulted.  She  would  have  taken  her  stand  on  the  broad  emi- 
nence of  principles,  honour  and  etiquette.  But  women,  my  friend  H 
observed,  had  no  sense  of  honour,  of  rectitude,  or  even  of  decency. 
Moreover,  he  continued,  every  woman  was  entirely  wanting  in  the 
sense  of  what  is  honourable  in  men.  Almost  every  woman  was  un- 
der the  influence  of  some  shocking  bad  hat  or  other.  Miss  W.  was 
an  instance  in  point.  She  got  such  low  prices  for  her  books  because 
she  was  entirely  under  the  thumb  of  X.  X  was  the  managing  di- 
rector of  the  publishers  in  question. 

My  friend  H  went  on  to  say  that  he  was  perfectly  convinced 
that  X  was  a  shocking  bad  hat  and  with  his  firm  was  absolutely 
dishonest.  He  had  told  Miss  W  this;  he  had  told  her  innumerable 
times.  He  had  begged  her  to  take  her  books  away  from  the  firm 
which  X  administered.  What  X  was  up  to  now  was  no  more  nor 
less  than  trying  to  breed  a  quarrel  between  himself  and  Miss  W  .  X 
had  always  hated  to  think  that  H  should  have  any  influence  with 
Miss  W  at  all.     Miss  W  on  the  other  hand  was  always  in  X's 


The    Little    Review  19 


office  and  X  was  always  pitching  her  some  tale  or  other  to  prove 
that  her  books  did  not  sell.  That  was  X's  way  of  doing  business. 
He  got  hold  of  a  lot  of  women  and  had  them  there  to  tea  every 
day  and  all  day  long.  And  then  he  told  them  that  their  books  did 
not  sell  and  got  them  on  the  cheap.  And  Mr.  H.  said  that  Mr.  X 
had  always  hated  himself  because  X  had  once  tried  to  swindle  him 
and  had  of  course  failed  utterly.  Now  X  had  got  the  chance  to 
kick  him  in  the  face  and  by  Jove!     he  had  taken  it. 

"And  the  damnably  irritating  thing  about  it  all,"  Mr.  H.  con- 
cluded vindictively,  "as  it's  the  damnably  irritating  thing  about  all 
women,  is  that  Miss  W  is  by  now  convinced  that  the  fellow  X  is  a 
swindler.  But  how?  —  I  have  been  trying  to  make  her  believe  it 
for  years.  I  am  a  sane,  honourable  and  fairly  distinguished  person. 
Yet  every  word  of  warning  that  I  have  given  her  against  X  has 
glided  off  her  like  water  from  a  duck's  back.  But  the  other  day 
some  sort  of  a  little  chap  who  is  a  clerk  in  another  publisher's 
office  comes  to  call  upon  her  to  take  away  some  pictures  for  repro- 
duction. And  this  little  chap  tells  her  that  X  is  dishonest.  And  im- 
mediately she  writes  off  to  me  to  say  that  she  had  found  X  out. 
A  clerk  had  told  her  that  he  was  dishonest.  Now  there  you  have  a 
woman!  Would  she  believe  me  who  am  an  expert  in  publishers  and 
publishing?  Not  a  bit  of  it!  But  she  takes  the  word  of  the  first 
understrapper  that  comes  along.    That  is  woman!" 

And  Mr.  H  in  his  agitation  rushed  away  from  me  to  tell  his 
tale  to  someone  else.  He  said  that  he  was  going  to  write  to  the 
Times.  But  as  I  have  not  seen  his  letter,  I  presume  the  editor  of 
that  journal  refused  him  hospitality  in  those  respectable  columns. 
Mr.  H  went  away  so  quickly  that  I  had  not  time  to  tell  him  that 
everyone  in  London  knew  perfectly  well  that  he  and  Mr  X  had  been 
angling  for  the  affections  of  Miss  W  for  the  last  five  years.  In  fact 
they  were  just  furiously  jealous  of  each  other.  Mr.  H  had  given 
Mr.  X  the  chance  to  kick  him  in  the  face  and  Mr.  X,  who  was  a 
heavy  man,  had  taken  it  with  glee.  I  had  wanted  to  tell  Mr.  H  that, 
since  everyone  that  he  could  possibly  speak  to  knew  just  what  the 
state  of  affairs  was,  Mr.  H — would  only  be  making  himself  ridicu- 
lous by  trumpeting  what  was  after  all  simply  his  own  folly.  But  he 
gave  me  no  time.  I  still  sat  reflecting  in  a  deep  chair  and  wondering 
whether  the  club-waiter  intended  to  bring  me  back  the  change  for 
my  tea  or  whether  he  would  conveniently  forget  it.  And  I  was 
wondering  too,  whether  I  should  muster  up  the  courage  to  tell  that 
menial  that  it  was  the  third  or  fourth  time  that  he  had  tried  to  play 
that  trick  upon  me  or  whether  for  the  third  or  fourth  time  I  should 


20  The     Lit  tie    Review 


let  him  pocket  the  sixpence.  I  began  wondering  why  it  was  that 
all  men  are  such  cowards  for  club  servants.  And  then  I  thought 
that  if  I  had  been  a  woman  in  a  woman's  club  I  should  have  got  that 
skpence  back  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye.  I  never  got  that  sixpence 
back.  I  do  not  know  that  I  should  not  have  had  the  courage  to  ask 
for  it,  but  my  attention  was  diverted.  I  do  not  honestly  think  that 
I  should  have  asked  for  it. 

But  Reggie  SpKDfforth  was  standing  in  front  of  the  other  fire- 
place at  the  end  of  the  smoking  room.  He  was  trying  to  keep  his- 
broad  fat  face  serious,  but  traces  of  smiles  were  p>eeping  up  at  every 
minute  round  the  corners  of  his  mouth.  Reggie  Spofforth  was  the 
junior  partner  in  the  firm  of  Spofforth,  Hawes  and  Spofforth,  the 
old  established  literary  advisers  .  He  wore  gold  spectacles  and  what 
he  did  not  know  of  literary  gossip  would  go  into  a  club  wine  glass. 
From  an  arm  chair  that  was  below  him  and  hidden  from  me  by  a 
writing  desk  there  went  up  the  low  babble  of  a  monologue  of  which 
I  could  not  catch  the  words.  Mr.  Spofforth  continued  to  smirk  joy- 
ously whilst  he  tried  not  very  successfully  to  appear  serious  and 
concerned.  And  suddenly  there  burst  forth  in  a  voice  of  uncontol- 
able  emotion  the  words: 

"That  is  what  it  is  to  be  trapped  into  having  anything  to  do 
with  a  woman ! " 

—  My  friend  H  was  once  more  rehearsing  the  story  of  his  woes. 

I  began  to  reflect  on  H's  case.  Something  of  the  sort  has 
happened  to  me  several  times  —  on  at  least  three  occasions.  On 
each  of  these  a  young  writer,  publishing  a  first  book,  had  asked  me 
to  write  a  preface  for  him.  And  on  each  of  these  occasions  either 
the  publisher  or  the  writer  himself  had  asked  me  to  modify  my 
preface  because,  as  I  hope  sufficiently  to  demonstrate,  I  write 
very  uncautiously  and  say  exactly  what  I  mean.  On  the  other  hand 
the  only  preface  that  I  ever  wrote  which  got  through  exactly  as 
I  wrote  it  was  written  for  a  volume  of  translations  by  a  woman. 

Looking  at  Mr.  Spofforth 's  face, — Mr.  Spofforth  is  I  should  say 
exactly  the  average  man.  Vliomme  moyen  sensucl, — I  realised  that, 
while  Mr.  Spofforth  knew  quite  well  of  the  jealousy  between  Messrs 
H  and  X,  and  while  he  was  in  consequence  making  allowances  for 
both  these  gentlemen,  he  was  at  the  same  time  exactly  agreeing  with 
everything  that  H  said  about  Miss  W  as  a  woman.  And  suddenly 
it  came  in  my  head  to  consider  that  this  is  how  we  men  and  women 
build  up  our  respective  views  of  each  other.  For  it  is  perfectly  true 
that  Miss  W  had  treated  Mr  H  with  discourtesy,  and  without  proper 


The    Little    Review  21 


attention  to  etiquette.    But  she  had  done  it  by  the  orders  of  a  man. 
This  Mr.  Spofforth  would  omit  to  notice. 

This  incident  happened  several  years  ago  and,  since  .that 
date  —  because  it  awakened  in  me  a  certain  train  of  thought  —  I 
have  in  my  mind  been  gathering  together  material  for  this  book. 
I  tried  in  the  beginning  to  reduce  my  intelligence  to  a  blank.  I  tried 
to  wipe  the  slate  clean.  I  said  to  myself:  Let  me  postulate  for  the 
sake  of  clearness  of  thought,  that  there  is  no  difference  between  men 
and  women.  —  And  then,  I  began  to  gather  together  the  illustra- 
tions. I  gathered  them  strictly  from  my  own  experience  or  from 
what  I  have  the  right  to  consider  as  first  hand  information,  —  that 
is  to  say  from  the  direct  experiences  of  friends  as  they  have  related 
them  to  me.  I  have  been  trying  to  get  at  what,  if  any,  is  the  essen- 
tial difference  between  man  and  woman  in  the  life  that  to-day  we 
lead  in  Western  Europe  .  I  do  not  profess  to  have  studied  the  mat- 
ter historically.  History  is  an  excellent  thing  and,  when  it  is  treated 
by  scientific  historians  it  becomes  infinitely  more  misleading  than 
anything  that  I  could  hope  to,  write. 

The  first  writer  who  paid  much  attention  to,  who  generalised 
much  about  the  difference  between,  the  sexes  was  of  course  Shakes- 
peare. I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  Shakespeare  was  the  first  who  ever 
wrote  that  woman  was  not  to  be  trusted,  but  that  he  is  the  earliest 
writer  —  and  he  is  almost  the  only  writer  —  who  has  any  influence 
in  this  matter  over  the  minds  of  gentlemen  like  my  friend  Mr. 
Spofforth.  Let  us  just  transcribe  typical  passages  as  to  a  gentle- 
man's views  respectively  of  the  good  and  the  bad  of  woman.  Let 
the  first  be  from  Cymbeline  and  the  first  gentleman  Posthumus: 

"Could  I  find  out 
The  Woman's  part  in  me!     For  there's  no  motion 
That  tends  to  vice  in  man  but  I  affirm 
It  is  the  Woman's  part.    Be  it  lying,  note  it. 
The  Woman's;  flattering,  hers;  deceiving,  hers. 
Lust  and  rank  thoughts,  hers,  hers;  revenges  her; 
Ambitions,  covetings,  change  of  prides,  disdain. 
Nice  longings,  slanders,  mutability. 
All  faults  that  have  a  name,  nay  that  hell  knows 
Why,  hers  in  part  or  all;  or  rather  all; 
For  even  to  vice 
They  are  not  constant,  but  are  changing  still 

I 


22  The    Little    Review 


One  vice  of  but  a  minute  old  for  one 
Not  half  so  old  as  that.    I'll  write  against  them 
Detest  them,  curse  them,  —  Yet  'tis  greater  skill 
In  a  true  hate  to  pray  they  have  their  will 
The  very  devils  cannot  plague  them  better." 

I  do  not  know  of  any  particular  quotation  from  Shakespeare 
as  to  the  virtues  of  women  .  There  are  so  many,  and  most  of  them 
are  hackneyed.  Possibly  lago  in  his  "small  beer"  speech  expresses 
what  was  really  Shakespeare's  opinion  of  women,  —  his  balanced 
and  level-headed  view.  But  let  us  set  against  Posthumus's  views 
of  his  wife  when  he  was  angry,  his  view  when  he  was  pleased.  It 
will  be  observed  that  he  is  not  so  eloquent  and  that  his  opinion  is 
reported  for  him  by  others  : 

lachimo.  That  lady  is  not  now  living;  or  this  gentleman's 
opinion,  by  this,  worn  out. 

Postlmmns.     She  holds  her  virtue  still  and  I  my  mind. 

lachimo.    You  must  not  so  far  prefer  her  love  hours  of  Italy. 

Posthumus.  Being  so  far  provoked  as  I  was  in  France,  I  would 
abate  her  nothing;  though  I  profess  myself  her  adorer,  not  her 
friend. 

lachimo.  As  fair  and  as  good  (a  kind  of  hand  in  hand  compari- 
son) had  been  something  too  fair,  and  too  good,  for  any  lady  in 
Brittany.  If  she  went  before  others  I  have  seen,  as  that  diamond  of 
yours  out-lustres  many  I  have  beheld,  I  could  not  but  believe  she  ex- 
celled many:  but  I  have  not  seen  the  most  precious  diamond  that  is, 
nor  you  the  lady  . 

Posthumus.    I  praised  her  as  I  rated  her;  so  do  I  my  stone. 

lachimo.    What  do  you  esteem  it  at  ? 

Posthumus.    More  than  the  world  enjoys. 

lachimo.  Either  your  unparagoned  mistress  is  dead  or  she's  T5ut- 
prized  by  a  trifle. 

Posthumus.  You  are  rrtistaken:  the  one  may  be  sold,  or  given; 
or  if  there  were  wealth  enough  for  the  purchase,  or  merit  for  the  gift: 
the  other  is  not  a  thing  for  sale,  and  only  the  gift  of  the  gods. 

lachimo.    Which  the  gods  have  given  you  ? 

Posthumus.    Which,  by  their  graces,  I  will  keep. 

We  thus  arrive  at  an  accurate  impression  of  what  was  the 
equivalent  in  Shakespeare's  view  of  a  club  man's  estimate  of  woman. 
You  will  observe  that  it  was  pretty  exactly  the  estimation  that  a 
South  Sea  Islander  has  of  his  god,  who  is  an  idol  made  of  black  wood 


The    Little    Review  23 

and  mother  of  pearl.  When  his  god  pleases  him  this  gentleman 
exclaims:  "Oh  divinity!"  When  bis  god  fails  to  provide  him  with 
his  desired  meal  of  human  flesh  he  takes  a  club  and  bangs  the  ugly 
object  over  the  head.  It  is  exactly  in  this  way  that  we  treat  women 
to-day. 

It  is  exactly  in  this  way,  only  with  this  difference.  When  we 
are  pleased  with  our  women  we  exclaim: 

"Oh  divinity!  You  are  different  from  all  your  sex!"  But 
when  we  are  displeased  we  say:  "Hateful  beast  you  are  exactly  like 
all  the  rest  of  your  sex!"  And  this  is  a  very  subtle  and  a  very  sig- 
nificant distinction.  Consider  how  differently  we  approach  men.  If 
a  man  pleases  us,  is  honourable  and  all  the  rest  of  it,  we  say: 

"Oh  he  is  a  good  sort  of  chap!"  On  the  other  hand  I  had  a 
friend  who  shared  my  rooms  with  me  for  some  time.  He  was  a 
great  nuisance.  His  toilet  articles  filled  my  room  to  overflowing. 
I  could  not  go  into  my  bathroom  without  falling  over  half  a  dozen 
bottles  of  different  scents.  And  on  one  occasion  I  heard  a  wild  yell, 
a  thud  that  shook  the  whole  house.  I  rushed  into  my  friend's  bed- 
room and  discovered  this  stalwart  person  —  he  was  six  foot  two  in 
height  and  weighed  seventeen  stone  —  stretched  upon  the  floor  in  a 
dead  faint. 

He  had  perceived  a  mouse  upon  his  bed!  Yes,  he  had  per- 
ceived a  mouse  and  he  had  fainted! 

No  it  did  not  immediately  enter  my  head  to  say: 

This  infernal  nuisance  is  as  bad  as  all  the  rest  of  his  sex. 
He  uses  an  enormous  number  of  scents.  He  is  remarkably  un- 
truthful. He  never  tips  the  laundress  of  my  chambers,  so  that 
I  have  to  tip  her  double.  He  faints  and  he  yells  when  he  sees  a 
mouse.    He  is  like  all  other  men!" 

No,  I  did  not  say  this.    On  the  contrary  I  just  said  to  myself: 

"Poor  fellow,  what  can  you  expect?  He  went  to  Harrow  while 
I  went  to  Westminister," 

On  the  other  hand  I  do  not  know  that  men  come  any  better  out 
of  this  particular  struggle.  For  the  defects  which  are  supposed  to 
be  exclusively  masculine  are  by  women,  scored  up  against  my  unfor- 
tunate sex  in  a  manner  much  more  subterranean  but  none  the  less 
obstinate.  I  had  a  great-great-aunt  called  Bromley,  My  great-great- 
aunt  Bromley  had  a  niece.  This  niece  was  very  happily  married 
to  a  gentleman  called  Tristram  Madox.  She  had  everything  that  in 
those  days  the  wife  of  man  could  desire,  —  an  elegant  and  substantial 
establishment,  turtle  soup  once  a  week,  limes  for  concocting  punch, 


24  The     Little     Review 

a  carriage  and  pair,  and  affectionate  healthy  and  obedient  children 
as  well  as  a  healthy  affectionate  and  properly  patronizing  husband 
whom  she  always  addressed  as  "Mr.  Madox"  and  spoke  of  as  "the 
"Master".  One  day  she  made  the  extraordinary  discovery  that  her 
husband  possessed  also  another  establishment,  a  mistress  and  sev- 
eral children.  All  at  once  Mrs.  Madox's  happiness  went  to  pieces. 
She  still  possessed  her  substantial  establishment, the  carriage  and  pair; 
Mr.  Madox  still  patronized  her,  her  children  were  still  healthy,  affec-  ■ 
tionate  and  obedient.  But  a  blight  had  come  over  all  these  desir- 
able possessions;  the  world  appeared  to  her  a  desert.  For  consola- 
tion she  sought  my  great-great-aunt .  And  Miss  Bronley  who  was  of 
great  age  and  was  accounted  wise  beyond  most  people, — Miss 
Bromley  uttered  these  words  that  I  was  always  taught  to  consider 
memorable: 

"My  dear,"  she  said,  "You  can  never  trust  a  man  when  he  is 
out  of  your  sight." 

And  these  words  I  was  always  taught  as  I  have  said  to  con- 
sider memorable.  My  grandfather  would  relate  this  anecdote  upon 
every  appropriate  and  upon  many  inappropriate  occasions  .  And  this 
remarkable  speech,  whenever  he  related  it  was  always  received  with 
the  most  extraordinary  applause.  Yet  actually  no  remark  was  ever 
more  imbecile. 

For  of  course  you  can  trust  nobody,  neither  a  man  nor  a  woman 
when  he  or  she  is  out  of  your  sight.  I  was  talking  the  other  day  to 
a  distinguished  Russian  exile,  who  has  for  many  years  lived  in 
England.  He  purports  to  be  a  considerable  observer  of  life.  I  dare 
say  he  is.  At  any  rate  he  writes  admired  letters  as  to  English  social 
affairs  once  a  week  to  the  Peter sburgkaia  Viedemosti  or  some  journal 
of  the  sort.  My  friend  said  that,  upon  his  first  coming  to  England 
he  was  immensely  impressed  with  the  orderliness  and  regularity  of 
British  marital  conditions.  All  wives  were  faithful  and  devoted, 
it  appeared  to  him.  and  all  husbands  faithful  and  attached.  Every 
where  there  reigned  a  deep  calm,  —  a  sort  of  undreamt-of  and  holy 
Pax  Britannica.  He  seemed  to  himself  to  have  strayed  into  some 
Garden  of  Eden.  Everywhere  were  smiles,  politeness,  concord.  And 
this  struck  him  as  all  the  more  remarkable  because  he  came  from 
Russia  where  as  far  as  I  could  understand  him  there  reigned  a  sort 
of  orderly  disorder.  Apparently  in  that  Empire  the  rule  was  that  you 
married  with  the  blessings  of  the  Church  and  then  quarrelled  more 
or  less  outrageously  with  the  partner  of  your  joys  and  sorrows. 
Then  by  mutual  agreement  you  separated  and  each  of  the  parties 
contracted  another   union  which   was  quite  irregular  because  the 


The    Little    Review 


25 


Russian  Church  does  not  admit  of  divorce.  Nevertheless  the  second 
union, — as  if  the  first  had  purged  the  parties  by  fire  so  as  to  render 
them  comparatively  tolerant  of  the  fault  and  failings  of  others  — 
this  second  union  was  as  a  rule  permanent  and  satisfactory.  But 
this  terrible  state  of  things  was  so  normal  in  Russia  that,  as  I  have 
said,  conditions  in  England  struck  my  friend  as  those  of  concord 
surpassing  belief.  But  that  had  been  only  for  the  first  year  or  so. 
Apparently  Count  P  was  one  of  those  mild  and  trustworthy  persons 
to  whom  the  unhappy  come  for  confession  and  for  consolation.  I 
don't  know  exactly  who  his  friends  in  England  were.  But  I  could 
hazard  a  guess  that  they  were  mild  and  earnest  creatures  of  ad- 
vanced views  and  unsuspected  respectability,  —  a  sort  of  inverted 
society  of  puritans  all  wearing  flannel  next  their  skins.  Count  P 
assured  me  that  he  did  not  know  a  single  household  in  England 
where  beneath  the  surface  conditions  of  domestic  life  were  not  ab- 
solutely appalling  even  to  his  Russian  mind.  On  the  surface  these 
estimable  married  people  went  about  together  and  smiled  one  upon 
the  other.  But  whatTeally  upset  my  Russian  friend  was  that  ap- 
parently English  people  could  not  even  be  faithful  in  their  irregular 
unions. 

I  don't  know  what  may  be  the  worth  of  Count  P's  observations. 
He  made  them  to  me  while  we  were  watching  the  results  of  a  late 
general  election  come  in  at  Trafalgar  Square.  We  were  watching 
the  magic  lantern  sheet  of  one  of  the  great  Liberal  organs.  Count  P 
cheered  wildly  at  every  Liberal  success  and  groaned  in  a  becoming 
maimer  at  the  announcement  of  every  Tory  victory.  Election  re- 
sults becoming  scarce  the  magic  lantern  began  to  show  portraits  of 
prominent  Liberal  politicians  all  of  whom  Count  P  recognised.  Sud- 
denly there  appeared  an  atrociously  ugly  caricature  in  pinks  and 
greens.  It  represented  a  gentleman  with  an  immense  and  purky 
nose,  a  huge  eyeglass,  and  an  expression  of  dismay  at  the  result  of, 
let  us  say,  the  Grimsby  election.  In  the  button-hole  of  the  carica- 
ture was  represented  an  enormous  orchid.    Beneath  it  was  written: 

"What  price  Jo,  now!" 

My  Russian  friend  said:  "Who's  that?  Who's  that?"  ex- 
citedly. 

I  explained  whom  the  caricature  represented  .  "No,  no,"  Count 
P  exclaimed,  "you  don't  know  English  journalists.  They  are  chival- 
rous gentlemen.  The  man  you  mention  is  ill,  is  disabled  and  dying. 
No  English  political  journalist  would  permit  himself  to  caricature 
an  old  dying  statesman." 


26  The     Little     Review 

The  sheet  continued  to  show  pictures  of  the  gentleman  with  the 
eyeglass  and  the  orchid,  —  a  whole  series  of  them  depicting  him  in 
various  attitudes  of  degradation.    Under  each  one  was  written: 

"Jo!" 

My  Russian  friend  insisted  that  I  did  not  know  English  jour- 
nalists and  that  this  could  not  be  the  politician  familiarly  denoted 
by  tiiose  two  letters.  It  must  be  the  leader  of  the  Irish  party,  the 
president  of  the  United  States  or  Lord  Lansdowne.  He  repeated  that 
no  Liberal  journalist  would  to-day  caricature  Mr.  Chamberlain,  — 
that  no  journalist  in  England  would  caricature  a  dying  statesman, 
and  he  repeated  that  English  journalists  were  chivalrous  gentlemen. 

I  remembered  that  the  day  before  a  prominent  English  jour- 
nalist had  printed  a  private  letter  which  I  had  incautiously  addressed 
to  him  and  I  cordially  agreed  with  Count  P.  And  then  Count  P  ex- 
plained to  me  the  reason  why  English  journalists  were  so  much 
more  chivalrous  than  their  brothers  of  Russia  and  more  particularly 
of  Poland.  In  Russia  and  more  particularly  in  Poland  politics  are 
carried  on,  as  far  as  the  active  side  is  concerned,  very  largely  by 
women.  The  men  are  much  more  theoretic  and  Count  P  was  careful 
to  inform  me  that  women  have  no  sense  of  chivalry. 

At  that  moment  the  sheet  showed  Mr.  Chamberlain  being  sick 
into  basin.    And  once  more  Count  P  repeated: 

"You  don't  know  English  journalists;  they  are  chivalrous  gen- 
tlemen." 

So  that  perhaps  my  Russian  friend  was  not  an  exactly  trust- 
worthy observer  .  He  may  have  viewed  English  matrimonial  ar- 
rangements with  a  jaundiced  eye,  just  as  he  kept  a  very  rosy  one 
for  the  gentlemen  who  daily  instruct  this  country.  I  don't  know. 
And  I  don't  know  that  it  all  affects  my  argument.  My  great-great- 
aunt  said  that  you  can  never  trust  a  man  when  he  is  out  of  your 
sight.  And  this  wise  saw  has  been  applauded  by  tens  of  thousands 
of  women.  It  is  accepted  as  a  brilliant  and  indisputable  discovery. 
Let  me  add  another  discovery  which  seems  to  me  all  the  more  bril- 
liant and  all  the  more  indisputable  because  I  believe  it  is  a  discovery 
entirely  of  my  own.  I  have  at  least  never  met  a  woman  to  whom 
this  singular  fact  occurred.  But  the  fact  is  that  no  man  ever  went 
wrong  in  this  particular  matter  without  having  a  woman  to  go  wrong 
with  him.  In  the  nature  of  the  case  the  number  of  immoral  women 
must  be  exactly  the  same  as  the  number  of  immoral  men.  The  sta- 
tistics must  come  out  exactly  equal  so  that  my  great-great-uncle 
Madox  might  just  as  well  have  said: 

"My  boy,  you  cannot  trust  a  woman  out  of  your  sight!" 


The    Little    Review  27 

And  of  course  you  can't. 

I  am  in  the  nature  of  things  not  as  well  asquainted  with  the 
psychology  of  women  in  this  matter  as  I  am  with  that  of  men.  As 
I  hope  later  to  point  out  —  since  I  am  writing  what  is  only  another 
volume  of  reminiscences  —  I  have  personally  been  treated  badly  by 
men  who  behaved  as  if  they  were  wolves.  On  the  other  hand  I  have 
been  badly  treated  by  women  who  behaved  as  if  they  were  hyenas. 
I  do  not  know  that  there  is  much  difference  in  the  methods  of  these 
two  animals.  Wolves  are  more  inclined  to  run  in  packs  but  the 
other  quadruped  has  the  more  formidable  teeth  when  it  comes  to 
crushing  your  bones.  That  is  why  I  have  selected  these  two  animals 
as  illustrations.  For  I  have  noticed  that  when  men  of  that  disposi- 
tion imagined  that  I  was  "down",  as  the  saying  is,  they  jumped 
upon  me  four  or  five  or  fourteen  or  fifteen  at  a  time.  The  women 
on  the  other  hand  went  about  their  jobs  of  stealing  my  furniture 
or  my  reputation  or  whatever  it  was  they  wanted, — they  went  about 
it  as  solitary  beasts  of  prey,  silently  but  much  more  efficiently.  But 
.that  I  am  aware  is  largely  because  I  am  a  rather  observant  person 
and  have  generally  been  able  to  prevent  women  from  getting  about 
me  in  packs.  It  is  much  more  difficult  for  a  man  to  prevent  men  do- 
ing this,  because  a  man  has  to  deal  so  much  more  frequently  with 
bodies  of  men. 

^^Hommo  homini  lupus"  the  old  writer  says:  —  "man  behaves 
to  his  fellow  man  like  a  wolf".  And  when  one  has  grasped  this  essen- 
tial and  necessary  fact  one  has  achieved  something  like  heaven  on 
earth,  for  one  will  have  ceased  to  expect  anything  more  of  one's  fel- 
lows. So  that  I  jcannot  for  myself  very  well  differentiate  between 
man  and  woman  in  these  particular  aspects.  Woman  declares  that 
she  is  more  tender  and  more  tactful  than  man,  but  the  most  careful 
tendernesses  and  the  most  exquisite  tactfulness  that  I  have  person- 
ally met  with  have  been  at  the  hands  of  one  or  two  men.  Similarly 
man  in  the  eyes  of  woman  is  a  coarse  and  unimaginative  animal. 
Yet  certainly  the  coarsest  person  I  ever  met  was  a  woman.  And  I 
have  seldom  met  —  I  have  met,  but  very,  very  seldom  —  a  woman 
who  possessed  the  instinctive  gift  of  imagination  which  is  sympathy. 
I  am  not,  you  understand,  laying  down  any  laws.  Perhaps  men  are 
the  coarser,  perhaps  women  are  the  more  tender.  But  the  point 
that  I  desire  to  make  is  that  having  knocked  about  the  occidental 
world  in  many  corners  and  in  half  a  dozen  countries,  having  met 
more  persons  that  I  can  well  number,  I  cannot  see  that  in  these 
particulars  or  in  any  particulars  woman  differs  essentiallv  from  man 


28  The    Little    Review 


Of  course  the  female  housekeeper  of  an  English  lord's  castle  will 
differ  from  a  major  in  a  German  infantry  regiment.  The  fact  that 
she  has  stopped  indoors  for  the  greater  part  of  her  life  will  probably 
make  her  more  hysterical.  On  the  other  hand  I  happened  to  meet 
the  other  day  a  major  in  a  German  infantry  regiment  who  was  the 
.most  hysterically  sensitive  being  I  have  ever  come  across.  He  had 
fought  more  than  twenty  duels  over  imaginary  insults  and  he  was 
eventually  cashiered  after  an  occasion  of  the  sort  .But  I  do  not 
mean  to  adduce  from  this  that  all  German  officers  of  the  rank  of 
majors  are  distinguished  by  hysteria  and  sensitiveness.  As  a  rule 
they  are  not.  But  had  I  been  an  observer  of  mankind  like  my  great 
aunt  Bromley,  and  had  I  been  possessed  of  the  theory  that  all  men 
were  hysterical,  I  should  have  stored  up  that  particular  major  in  the 
note  books  of  my  memory  and  I  should  have  neglected  to  notice  any 
other  man  until  I  came  across  one  who  was  distinguished  by  similar 
nervous  eccentricities. 

Tlie  subject  is  one  singularly  difficult  to  tackle.  I  have  just  put 
down  that,  in  my  personal  experience,  men  have  acted  more  fre- 
quently in  packs  when  they  have  desired  to  victimise  me  and  that 
women  as  a  rule  have  operated  solitarily.  Now  I  am  quite  aware 
that  there  are  certain  sex-theorists  —  Weininger,  Schopenhauer  Rus- 
kin,  John  Stuart  Mill,  Mr.  Bernard  Shaw,  and  Solomon  the  author 
of  the  proverbs  being  among  them — who,  if  they  do  me  the  honour  to 
read  this  work,  will  say  at  once:  ''Ha!  here  we  find  this  author 
confirming  what  we  have  always  said.  Women  are  incapable  of  con- 
certed action." 

And  I  am  perfectly  aware  that  this  statement  of  mine  is  the 
only  one  that  they  will  notice,  for  they  will  set  down  the  rest  of 
this  book  as  airy  persiflage.  So  the  sex-legend  has  been  built  up. 
By  good  Christians  you  will  daily  hear  it  alleged  that  woman  is  an 
inferior  animal  because  she  lacks  physical  and  moral  courage.  They 
close  their  eyes  to  the  fact  in  the»6tory  of  the  Crucifixion  that  it 
v.-as  the  mother  of  Christ  who  took  the  risk  of  lingering  last  beside 
the  Cross  and  of  being  the  first  to  go  to  her  son's  grave.  Palestine 
at  that  date  was  rather  a  dangerous  place  in  which  to  manifest  sym- 
pathy or  concern  for  the  seed  of  David.  Yet  the  Virgin  Mary  was 
surely  a  woman.  In  the  same  spirit  you  will  hear  a  good  Frenchman 
declare  that  woman  is  Inecessarily  an  inferior  animal  because  she 
cannot  lead  armies.  And  immediately  afterwards  he  will  go  and  lay 
a  wreath  upon  the  statue  of  Joan  of  Arc.  Similarly  the  other  day  I 
heard  an  excellent  English  scholar  and  gentleman  declare  that 
woman  was  an  inferior  animal  because  no  woman  had  ever  been  a  ; 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  29 

first  rate  poet.     Immediately  afterwards  he  became  —  he  was  in 
another  mood  then  —  almost  lachrymose  over  the  line 

"  I  loved  thee  Athis  in  times  past .  " 

Yet  this  line  is  by  Sappho! 

My  friend  was  at  that  moment  trying  to  persuade  me  that 
Swinburne  in  translating  these  words  had  allowed  all  of  their  ma- 
jesty, of  their  magic  and  of  their  mastery  —  yes,  he  said  "mastery" 
—  to  escape.    Yet  Algernon  Charles  Swinburne  was  a  man. 

The  fact  is  that  no  sooner  does  either  man  or  woman  approach 
this  theme  of  the  difference  between  the  sexes  than  straightway  all 
reason  deserts  him.  He  may  be  the  most  powerful  reasoner  such 
as  was  Schopenhauer;  he  may  be  a  slightly  hysterical  novelist  like 
Strindberg;  he  may  be  a  great  poet  like  Shakespeare.  But  the  never- 
failing  rule  with  man  as  well  as  with  woman  is  to  revenge  in  his 
public  utterances  his  private  wrongs  against  a  sex.  I  was  once  in  an 
omnibus  with  a  lady  and  another  man.  A  man  got  up  to  go  out. 
and  the  bus,  skidding,  the  poor  man  on  his  feet  was  thrown  against 
my  charming  friend.  One  of  his  boots  considerably  damaged  her 
thin  summer  skirt  and  she  was  quite  properly  angry.  But  did  she 
abuse  the  driver  of  the  bus?  Or  did  she  say  that  motor-buses  are 
horrible  inventions  because  of  their  skidding  properties?  Not  at  all. 
She  looked  at  me  in  whom  she  had  a  certain  proprietary  interest 
and  she  remarked: 

"Why  have  all  men  feet  as  large  as  elephants  ?" 

Yet,  for  the  mere  trouble  of  looking  down  she  would  have  ob- 
served that  the  friend  who  was  with  us  had  feet  actually  smaller 
than  her  own.  And  he  was  a  man.  Quite  a  manly  man;  in  fact  he 
held  the  Oxford  record  for  the  mile.  But  indeed  this  'gentleman's 
feet  were  so  small  that  once,  when  he  as  well  as  the  lady  was  stop- 
ping with  me,  I  rang  the  bell  to  tell  the  servant  to  bring  in  his 
boots;  when  she  brought  them  I  blew  her  up  because  I  thought  from 
their  size  that  they  must  be  the  boots  of  the  lady  in  question.  Yet 
actually  they  were  the  boots  of  my  friend,  the  holder  of  the  mile 
record.  That  was  how  I  came  to  know  that  his  feet  were  smaller 
than  those  of  the  lady  who  said  that  the  feet  of  all  men  were  even 
as  those  of  the  largest  quadrupeds. 

Similarly,  having  as  I  have  already  pointed  out  been  outrage- 
ously robbed  by  several  housekeepers  and  female  dependents  to 
whom  I  had  been  a  great  deal  more  kindly  than  was  at  all  ;iecessary, 
I  might  subscribe  to  the  theory  that  women  are  incapable  of  con- 
certed action  for  the  purpose  of  plunder  or  for  any  other  purpose.    I 


30  The    Little    Review 

might  say  I  have  been  robbed  only  by  solitary  females.  Therefore  the 
female  of  man  is  always  a  robber  and  always  robs  singly.  She  is  a 
hyena  not  a  wolf.  I  might  with  the  light  and  skilful  pen  in  that 
way  revenge  myself  upon  my  late  housekeepers  by  abusing  the 
whole  sex.  If  I  do  not  do  it,  it  is  in  part  because  I  have  a  sense 
of  humour.  And  I  should  say  that  in  England  to  some  extent,  and 
in  the  United  States  enormously,  very  largely  in  Germany,  very 
largely  in  Russia  and  Holland  but  hardly  at  all  in  France,  —  that 
generally  over  the  occidental  world  the  prime  cause  of  the  domestic 
misery  and  of  the  domestic  dissatisfaction  that  exist  is  precisely 
that  each  separate  household  has  as  its  theoretic  base  an  association 
of  dependent  women  packing  together  against  the  made  head  of  the 
house  .  I  can  imagine  nothing  more  terrible  than  the  domestic  con- 
ditions of  the  large  bulk  of  ordinary,  respectable  and  apparently 
tranquil  middle-class  families  .  Here  you  will  have  a  good,  honest, 
rather  stupid,  rather  fat  man. 

He  will  be  a  mere  machine  all  his  life.  At  home  there  will  be, 
say,  five  women  and  two  sons.  And  this  man  from  any  intellectual, 
social,  or  political  point  of  view  will  be  worse  than  a  log.  He  will  be 
too  tired  to  read  a  book,  too  tired  to  follow  a  political  argument,  too 
tired  to  join  in  an  intelligent  conversation  .  So  he  will  be  too  tired 
all  his  life,  and  to  what  end?  ...  In  order  to  support  this  mon- 
strous regiment  of  five  women  and  two  sons  who,  because  they  are 
allied  with  the  five  women  for  the  purposes  of  extracting  money 
from  this  wretched  helot,  may  be  counted  as  only  two  more  women. 
Even  upon  the  surface  it  is  a  really  hideous  picture.  But  the  mo- 
ment you  inquire  a  little  deeper  you  discover  that  things  are  infinite- 
ly more  repulsive. 

For  all  those  five  women  and  their  two  allies  will  be  linked 
against  that  sweating  day  labourer.  Officially  he  is  the  master  of 
the  house.  Actually  he  is  "He"  for  all  the  household.  And,  be- 
cause all  his  household  —  the  wife,  the  daughter,  the  three  maid 
servants  and  the  sons — because  they  are  all  nothing  more  nor  less 
than  parasitic  menials,  they  will  have  evolved  a  sort  of  freemasonry 
to  extort  always  more  and  more  money  from  the  unfortunate  camel 
who  bears  them  all  upon  his  back.  And  behind  his  back  they  will 
be  perpetually  whispering  their  servants'  discontent.  They  will  be 
perpetually  grumbling  among  themselves  because  he  cannot  afford 
them  more  and  more  useless  luxuries.  "He"  won't  let  the  wife 
have  a  new  carriage;  "He"  won't  let  the  cook  have  a  new  kitchen 
range,  the  daughter  a  new  conservatory,  the  sons  new  golf  clubs, 
the  housemaid  new  silver  cloths     .And  if  "He"  let  them  have  all 


T  he    Little    Review  31 


these  things  entirely  new  to-morrow,  they  would  want  them  all  once 
more  on  the  following  day  together  with  twenty  more  new,  useless, 
and  expensive  things.  There  would  never  be  any  end  to  it,  and  so 
he  staggers  along  to  his  useless  and  expensive  funeral  which  is  really 
all  that  he  gets  out  of  life.  And  all  the  while  this  regiment  of 
women  will  have  been  whispering  with  their  heads  together  all 
round  him.  They  will  have  been  bidding  each  other  observe  that 
"He"  is  stupid,  coarse,  gross,  unintelligent,  late  for  his  meals,  too 
fond  of  the  pleasures  of  the  table,  inartistic,  unpresentable,  given  to 
leaving  his  slippers  in  the  dining  room,  a  person  whom  it  takes  five 
women  to  tidy  up  after  ....  He  is  "He"  in  fact. 

No!  I  will  never  subscribe  to  the  doctrine  that  women  cannot 
act  in  concert  ! 

(to  be  continued) 

INCIDENTS  IN  THE  LIFE  OF  A  POET         jjit^' 
John  Rodker 

AT  seventeen  he  had  made  up  his  mind- that  Fate  had  destined 
him  for  a  high  sphere,  yet  how  inexpressibly  sordid  Life  was.  He 

became  a  philosophical  anarchist.  Later,  when  he  found  that  Shel- 
ley too  had  been  an  anarchist,  his  pride  knew  no  bounds.  Then  the 
greatness  of  his  destiny  made  it  impossible  to  risk  it  by  throwing 
bombs.  Nevertheless  he  was  convinced  that  bomb-throwing  was 
the  only  panacea. 

Fortunately  for  his  self-respect  he  remembered  that  "  The  pen 
is  mightier  than  the  sword  ". 

*  *  *  * 

At  eighteen  he  was  embarrassed  by  the  frequency  with  which 
middle-aged  women  fell  on  his  neck,  hailing  him  as  the  poetical 
genius  of  the  future.  He  began  to  take  it  for  granted.  Therefore  he 
cut  his  hair;  wore  a  bowler:  did  his  utmost  in  fact  to  look  like  a 
stockbroker  and  man  of  spirit;  for  he  thought—"  since  the  greatness 
of  my  future  is  so  certain,  why  waste  energy  in  trying  to  look  it. 
Besides  what  is  more  intriguing  than  a  dark  horse"  ? 

Alas,  the  very  women  who  had  been  the  first  to  tell  him  of 
his  divine  mission,  now  spurned  him.  "  We  were  mistaken,"  they 
said  to  each  other;  "After  all,  he  has  the  mind  of  a  stockbroker  !  "  . 


32 


The    Lit  tig    Review 


At  nineteen  he  was  surprised  by  the  frequency  with  which 
young  women  fell  in  love  with  him.  Not  because  he  was  a  man  — 
nor  even  because  of  his  art  —  but  because,  "he  looked  so  girlish," 
they  said. 

"Was  it"  he  could  not  refrain  from  asking  himself,"  a  refined 
form  of  Lesbianism"?    His  whole  soul  revolted  at  the  idea. 

He  spent  long  hours  pushing  his  chin  forward:  he  got  drunk 
quite  frequently:  he  became  a  specialist  in  bawdy-houses. 

He  adopted  a  brutal  and  mcisive  form  of  speech  with  these 
women:  and  allowed  no  subject  to  be  taboo  in  discussion. 

Alas,  they  were  only  the  more  convinced  of  his  profound  fe- 
mininity . 

It  was  exactly  the  way  they  talked  to  each  other. 
*  *  *  * 

Strangely  enough,  although  his  poetry  was  of  heroic  mould,  he 
was  a  coward.  The  idea  of  physical  injury  made  him  sick  and  he 
could  not  bear  to  tread  on  a  worm.  (No,  dear  reader,  he  was  not 
such  a  coward  as  to  be  afraid  of  it  turning.)  If  he  passed  over  a 
bridge  where  children  were  playing,  his  heart  w'ould  stop  beating 
and  his  knees  liquefy  under  him  at  the  thought  that  one  of  them 
would  fall  in,  in  which  case  he  would  have  to  dive  the  hundred  feet 
or  so  into  the  water;  perhaps  get  wet  — even  perhaps  a  cold,  — 
risk  his  destiny  for  the  sake  of  a  slum  brat:  for  unfortunately  he 
could  swim  and  dive  too,  but  not  very  well. 

One  day  at  Margate  (he  was  a  poet  whose  destiny  was  to  des- 
cribe the  life  of  his  time),  he  had  finished  bathing  and  was  in  his 
machine  looking  out  to  sea.  He  saw  a  girl  and  a  man  swim  out,  with 
a  tide  strongly  running  .  Then  the  man  turned  back  and  the  girJ 
threw  up  an  arm,  and  cried  "Help".  He  w'as  scandalised  to  sec 
that  the  man  had  left  her  and  that  no  one  else  went  in.  Feeling 
the  world  to  be  full  of  injustice  he  realised  that  after  all  he  would 
have  to  go  in.  He  dropped  into  the  water  casually  —  first  putting  on 
his  wet  costume  (les  convenances  must  be  observed)  —  and  pulled 
her  out.  He  had  to  sweat  over  it,  but  managed  it  finally  by  swim- 
ming obliquely  against  the  tide. 

Both  collapsed  on  the  beach.  Then  the  girl  murmured  'Thank 
you",  and  disappeared  .  The  crowd  cheered.  He  went  into  his  tent. 
He  realised  now  how  heroes  were  made,  quite  casually,  just  like 
that.  He  dressed  himself,  and  after  a  proper  interval  left  the  ma- 
chine proudly  as  befitted  a  hero;  prepared  to  receive  the  acclamation, 
—  perhaps  even  a  collection  —  from  the  crowd  who  had  witnessed 
the  deed.    At  least,  he  thought,  my  photograph  in  the  Mirror  ought 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  33 

to  sell  out  those  damned  sonnets.  And  the  girl  —  ah  the  girl  — 
she  would  surely  be  waiting  to  throw  her  arms  round  his  neck  and 
be  his  bride. 

There  was  nobody  on  the  beach  —  he  looked  on  every  hand  — 
not  even  a  Mystic  Choir  anywhere.  And  the  thin  clapping  of  dead 
leaves  mocked  him. 

SfC  3fC  SfS  ^ 

Of  course  he  was  in  love:  quite  often  in  fact.  Each  new 
woman  was  that  one  for  which  his  whole  soul  had  longed.  She  alone 
was  the  one  vision  who  had  solaced  his  sleepless  nights,  visiting  him 
in  dreams.  Never  was  poet  so  rhapsodical,  never  woman  so  idolised 
—  never  union  more  inspiring. 

Alas,  soon  she  began  to  cry  "Give  me  bread,  meat,  children." 
He  was,  of  course,  penniless. 

There  was  the  usual  scene.  She  said  he  had  no  right  to  be  a 
poet  without  a  rich  father  behind  him.  It  was  directly  contrary  to 
Novelette  precedent.    What  about  Shelley,  etc. 

I  can't  live  on  air,  if  you  can!"    She  slammed  the  front  door. 

When  he.jvas  thus  deserted,  he  would  question  himself  :  "Am 
I  unhappy?"  Yes,  there  was  no  use  denying  it,  he  was.  "Joy"  he 
cried,  "for  only  through  suffering  shall  one  gain  eternal  life",  i.  e. 
write  eternal  poetry. 

While  he  wrote  the  sonnet  inspired  by  the  above,  he  was  already 
seeing  how  it  would  go  to  the  Editor.  The  postman  would  throw  it 
into  the  "sanctum"  with  a  pile  of  other  letters  .  He  pictured  the 
Editor's  amazement,  when  he  opened  his  sonnet,  read  his  letter,  and 
how  he  would  admire  the  dignity  of  the  covering  letter.  "Dear  Sir,, 
herewith  I  beg  to  enclose  you  a  sonnet  which  you  may  care  to 
print.  I  am,  Sir,  etc."  Here  was  the  poet  for  whom  the  Editor  had 
sought  so  long.  He  would  rush  out,  hail  a  taxi,  dash  up  to  the 
poet's  door,  take  him  home  and  give  him  a  square  meal  at  last; 
buy  all  his  other  stuff  at  incredible  sums  a  line. 

Alas,  his  father  died  before  ever  he  had  a  sonnet  accepted,  and 
he  had  put  £  2000  into  the  dying  Reclame  first.  Therefore  the  son- 
net appeared  in  The  Reclame. 

sft  *  *  * 

One  day  he  was  in  a  bad  mood.     His  anger  grew  with  every 
word  of  the  story  he  was  telling  to  his  large  friend. 
"  '  So  then,  she  said,  'do  you  like  my  new  frock  ?  ' 
"  '  Admirable  ' ,  I  said. 
"  '  And  do  you  love  me  better  in  it  ?  ' 
"  'No'  I  saicij  thinking  of  the  sonnets  she'd  promised  to  print 


34  The    Little     Review 


with  the  money,  'I  think  it's  a  nice  frock,  but  not  more  pleasant 
than  your  other  frocks,  or  no  frock  at  all  for  that  matter.  One 
knows  of  course  that  people  must  have  frocks  sometimes.' 

"  '  Yes,  '  she  said.  '  I  simply  had  to.  Just  as  sometimes  I  have  to 
have  smart  hats,  —  just  as  I  have  to  have  you.  They're  all  just  as 
necessary  to  me  as  each  other.  Sometimes  my  only  desire  is  a 
hat,  or  else  it's  a  box  at  the  theatre,  or  else  its  a  frock  —  or  else  — ' 
and  then  she  beamed  at  me  —  'it's  you'  "  . 

There  was  a  ferocious  silence  which  irked  the  friend,  and  to 
break  it  he  said  "Well,  what  did  you  say  to  that?". 

"Say?    I  strangled  her." 


At  twenty-one  he  decided  the  time  had  come  for  his  Magnum 
Opus.  It  was  to  be  a  novel.  At  last  the  human  soul  would  be  torn 
bare,  —  disclosed  in  all  its  innate  vileness  and  nobility. 

With  the  object  of  unveiling  Isis,  he  therefore  said  to  his  sweet- 
heart :  "Darling,  there  must  have  been  times  when  you  hated  me; 
when  you  felt  you'd  burst  if  you  had  to  see  me  ever  again;  and  all 
because  of  things  I  had  done  unwittingly  and  which  offended  you 
the  more  because  of  it.  Its  no  good  denying  it,  because  it  always 
happens  in  all  love. 

"Yes,  all  right"  she  said.    "But  you  tell  me  yours  first". 

"No,  you  first"  he  said. 

"No  you!  then  I  promise  I  will." 

"No  you"  he  replied,  "then  I  will." 

"What    must    his    thoughts    have    been    like,"    she    thought, 

"since  he's  so  ashamed  to  own  them";  and  left  him  there  and  then 

and  forever. 

*  *  *  * 

At  the  age  of  twenty-five  he  had  written,  in  chronological  order, 
a  volume  of  sonnets,  a  novel,  a  play;  believe  me,  all  showing  marked 
talent.  Then  his  father  providentially  died.  His  first  thought  was 
to  forswear  the  Muses.  When  he  entertained  old  friends  he  took 
care  to  wear  with  his  newly-acquired  velvet  dinner  jacket  an  afr  of 
ferocious  melancholy. 

"Well,  what  are  you  writing  now,  John?"  they  would  ask. 

"Nothing"  he  would  reply  shortly  .  "What's  the  good  of  the 
damned  game,  I  want  to  know?  All  dust  and  ashes.  In  a  hundred 
years  where  is  it  all?  No!  I'm  going  abroad.  I  mean  to  have  a 
good  time  —  wine,  women  and  song.  I've  talked  about  it  long 
enough,  heaven  knows.    The  only  thing  that  kept  me  at  it  in  the  old 


T he    Little    Review  35 


days  was  the  thought  that  the  old  man  would  go  on  till  I  was  fifty 
or  so  and  I'd  have  to  keep  going  somehow." 

When  they  had  gone  he  remained  in  thought.  An  insidious 
voice  whispered  in  his  ear  "That  little  scene  now  would  make  a 
good  prose-poem.  Not  for  publication,  of  course,  but  just  interest- 
ing. It  wouldn't  take  you  a  few  minutes.  Just  the  poet  —  now 
wealthy— literature  forsworn  for  ever  and  ever,  stretching  out  his 
hand  to  a  sheet  of  paper. 

"What  an  old  hypocrite  you  are,  John",  he  said  as  he  went  into 

the  library. 

*  rn  W  W 

When  his  father  died  he  went  abroad. 

His  destiny  went  with  him  and  gave  him  no  rest. 

Then  he  thought  "Even  if  I  rescue  my  name  from  oblivion  for  a 
hundred  years  only,  it  would  have  been  worth  while. 

A  hundred  years  —  why  the  mere  fact  of  printing  a  book  gains 
it  admission  to  the  British  Museum  Library  .  Surely  that  institution 
must  last  as  long  as  the  British  Empire,  i.  e  for  ever  and  ever  — 

So  then,  it  would  be  quite  a  simple  matter  to  last  as  long  as  any 
of  the  classics  in  that  superb  library. 

He  decided  that  the  means  of  lasting  to  Eternity  were  too  sim- 
ple, too  easily  procured  for  one  of  so  electric  a  mind  as  himself. 

It  was  like  preserving  coprolites  . 

He  was  glad  he  could  afford  to  forego  Literature. 


A  SOLDIER  OF  HUMOUR 

Wyndham   Lewis 
Part   II. 

BURGOS  WAS  to  break  my  journey.  But  San  Sebastian  and 
Leon  seemed  eventually  better  halting  places. 

This  four  days  journeying  was  an  interlude — an  entr'acte  filled 
with  appropriate  music;  the  lugubrious  and  splendid  landscapes  of 
Castile,  the  extremely  selfconscious  pedantic  and  independent  spirit 
of  its  inhabitants,  met  with  en  route.  Fate  was  marking  time,  mere- 
ly. On  with  the  second  day's  journey  I  changed  trains  and  dined  at 
Venta  de  Banos  ,the  junction  for  the  line  that  branches  off  in  the 
direction  of  Palencia,  Leon  and  the  Gallician  country. 

The  Spanish  people,  while  travelling,  have  a  marked  preference 


36  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

for  the  next  compartment  to  that  that  they  have  chosen.  No  sooner 
has  the  train  started  than  one  after  another,  heads,  arms  and  should- 
ers appear  above  the  wooden  partition,  and  you  occasionally  have  the 
entire  human  contents  of  the  neighbouring  compartment  gazing 
gloomily  into  your  o^^Tl.  In  the  case  of  some  theatrical  savage  of  the 
Sierras,  who  rears  a  dishevelled  head  before  you  in  a  pose  of  fierce 
abandon  hangs  there  smoking,  you  know  that  it  may  be  some  in- 
stinctive pride  that  prevents  him  from  remaining  in  an  undignified 
position  huddled  in  a  narrow  carriage.  In  other  cases  it  is  probably 
a  naive  conviction  that  the  occupants  of  other  compartments  are 
likely  to  be  more  interesting. 

The  whole  way  from  Venta  de  Banos  to  Palencia  the  carriage  was 
dense  with  people.  Crowds  of  peasants  poured  into  the  train,  loaded 
with  their  heavy  vivid  horse-rugs,  gaudy  bundles  and  baskets;  which 
profusion  of  mere  matter,  combined  with  their  exuberance,  made 
the  carriage  appear  positively  to  swarm  with  human  life.  They  would 
crowd  in  at  one  little  station  and  out  at  another  a  short  way  along 
the  line,  where  they  were  met  by  hordes  of  their  relations  awaiting 
them.  They  would  rush  or  swing  out  of  the  door,  charged  with  their 
goods  and  accoutrements  and  catch  the  nearest  man  or  woman  of  their 
blood  in  their  arms  with  a  turbulence  that  outdid  Northerners'  most 
vehement  occasions.  The  waiting  group  became  at  least  tw>ce  as 
vital  as  ordinary  human  beings,  on  the  arrival  of  the  train,  as  though 
so  much  more  blood  had  poured  into  their  veins.  Gradually  we  got 
beyond  the  sphere  of  this  Fiesta  and  in  the  small  hours  of  the  morn- 
ing arrived  at  Leon. 

Next  day  came  the  final  stage  of  the  journey  to  the  Atlantic 
sea  board.  We  arrived  within  sight  of  the  towTi  that  evening  just  as 
the  sun  was  setting.  With  its  houses  of  green,  rose  and  white,  in 
general  effect  rather  subdued  and  faded,  it  Avas  like  some  Oriental 
town  in  the  nerveless  tempera  tints  of  a  fresco.  Its  bay,  thirty  miles 
long  reached  out  to  the  sea. 

On  the  train  drawing  up  in  the  Central  station,  furious  contingents 
furnished  by  every  little  raggamuffin  cafe  as  well  as  every  stately  ho- 
tel in  the  town  were  hurled  against  us.  I  had  mislaid  the  address 
given  me  at  Bayonne.  I  wished  to  find  a  hotel  of  medium  luxury 
half  way  between  the  ghastly  bouge  and  the  princely  hostelry.  This 
was  a  method  with  me.  The  different  hotel  attendants  called  hotly 
out  their  prices  at  me.  I  selected  one  who  named  a  sum  for  board 
and  lodging  that  only  the  frenzy  of  competition  could  have  fathered, 
I  thought.  Also  the  name  of  this  hotel  was,  it  seemed  to  me,  the  one 
the  Patrona  at  Bayonne  had  mentioned.  I  had  not  then  learnt  to  con- 


The    Little    Review  37 

nect  Burgaleza  with  Burgos.  With  this  man  I  took  a  cab  and  was 
left  seated  in  it  at  the  door  of  the  station  while  he  went  after  the 
heavy  luggage.  Now  one  by  one  the  hotel  emissaries  came  up; 
queer  contrast  between  their  fury  of  a  few  minutes  before  and  their 
present  listless  calm.  Putting  themselves  civilly  at  my  disposition, 
they  thrust  forward  matter-of-factly  the  card  of  their  establishment, 
adding  that  they  were  sure  that  I  would  find  out  my  mistake. 

I  now  felt  an  a  vague  manner  a  tightening  of  the  machinery 
of  Fate— a  certain  uneasiness  and  strangeness  in  the  march  and  suc- 
cession of  facts  and  impressions,  like  the  trembling  of  a  motor  bus 
about  to  start  again.    The  interlude  was  over. 

After  a  long  delay  the  hotel  man  returned  and  we  started.  The 
method  I  have  spoken  of  consisted  in  a  realization  of  the  following 
facts: — when  your  means  are  very  restricted,  it  is  best  to  go  to  a 
cheap  hotel  and  pay  a  few  pesetas  more  a  day  for  "extras".  This  is 
satisfactory  than  affecting  second  class  ''  houses.  "  You  can  never 
be  sure  in  any  hotel  especially  in  Spain,  of  the  menu  not  containing 
every  dish  you  most  loathe.  But  there  is  something  private,  almost 
home-made,  about  Extras.  You  always  feel  that  a  single  individual 
has  bent  over  the  extra  and  carefully  cooked  it  and  that  it  has  not 
been  bought  in  too  wholesale  a  manner  .  I  wished  to  live  on  Extras — 
a  privileged  existence. 

Tthe  cabman  and  hotel  man  were  discussing  some  local  event. 
But  we  penetrated  farther  and  farther  into  a  dismal  and  shabby 
quarter  of  the  town.  I  began  to  have  misgivings.  I  asked  the  rep- 
resentative of  the  Burgaliza  if  he  were  sure  that  his  house  was  a  clean 
handsome  and  comfortable  house.  He  dismissed  my  doubtful  glance 
with  a  gesture  full  of  assurance.  'Tt's  a  splendid  place!  You  wait 
and  see;  we  shall  be  there  directly.  "  he  added. 

We  suddenly  emerged  in  a  broad  and  imposing  street,  on  one  side 
of  which  was  a  public  garden;  "El  Paseo",  I  found  out  afterwards, 
the  Town-Promenade.  Gazing  idly  at  a  vast  palatial  white  building 
with  an  hotel  omndbus  drawn  up  before  it,  to  my  astonishment  I 
found  our  driver  also  stopping  at  its  door.  A  few  minutes  later,  in 
a  state  of  .stupefaction,  I  got  out  and  entered  this  palace,  noticing 
"Burgaleza"  on  the  board  of  the  omnibus.  I  followed  dumbly,  having 
glimpses  in  passing  of  a  superbly  arrayed  table  with  serviettes  that 
were  each  a  work  of  art  that  a  diner  would  soon  haughtily  pull  to 
pieces  to  wipe  his  moustache  on — tables  groaning  beneath  salvers 
full  of  fruit  and  other  delicacies.  Then  came  a  long  hall,  darkly 
panelled,  at  the  end  of  which  I  could  see  several  white-capped  men 
shouting  fiercely  and  clashing  knives,  women  answering  shrilly  and 


38  T he    Li 1 1 le    Review 

rattling  dishes — a  kitchen;  the  most  diabolically  noisy  and  nauseous 
I  had  ever  approached.  We  went  straight  on  towards  it.  Were  we 
going  through  it,  At  the  very  threshold  we  stopped,  and  opening  a 
panel-like  door  in  the  wall,  the  porter  disappeared  with  my  portman- 
teau, appeared  again  without  my  portmanteau,  and  hurried  away. 
At  this  moment  my  eye  caught  something  else,  a  door  ajar  on  the 
other  side  of  the  passage  and  a  heavy  wooden,  clothless  table,  with 
several  squares  of  bread  on  it,  and  a  fork  or  two.  In  Spain  there  is 
a  sort  of  bread  for  the  rich,  and  a  horrible  looking  juiceless  papery 
bread  for  the  humble.  The  bread  on  that  table  was  of  the  latter 
category. 

Suddenly  the  truth  flashed  upon  me.  With  a  theatrical  gesture 
I  dashed  open  again  the  panel  and  passed  into  the  pitchy  gloom 
within.  I  struck  a  match.  It  was  a  cupboard,  quite  windowless,  with 
just  enough  room  for  a  little  bed;  I  was  standing  on  my  luggage.  No 
doubt  in  the  room  across  the  passage  I  should  be  given  some  cod 
soup,  permanganate  of  potash  and  artificial  bread.  Then,  extremely 
tired  after  my  journey,  I  should  crawl  into  my  kennel,  the  pandemon- 
ium of  the  kitchen  at  my  ear  for  several  hours. 

In  the  central  hall  I  found  the  smiling  proprietor.  He  seemed  to 
regard  his  boarders  geneally  as  a  mild  joke,  and  those  who  slept 
in  the  cupboard  near  the  kitchen  a  particularly  good  but  rather  low 
one.  I  informed  him  that  I  would  pay  the  regular  sum  for  a  day's 
board  and  lodging  and  said  I  must  have  another  room,  A  valet  ac- 
cepted the  responsibility  of  seeing  I  was  given  a  bedroom,  and  the 
landlord  walked  slowly  away,  his  iron-grey  side  whiskers,  with  their 
traditional  air  of  respectability,  giving  a  disguised  look  to  his  rascally 
face.  I  was  transferred  from  one  cupboard  to  another.  Or  rather,  I 
had  exchanged  a  cupboard  for  a  wardrobe — reduced  to  just  half  its 
size  by  a  thick  layer  of  skirts  and  cloaks,  twenty  deep,  that  protruded 
from  all  four  walls.  But  still  the  little  open  space  left  in  the  centre 
would  ensure  me  a  square  foot  to  wash  and  dress  in,  with  a  quite  dis- 
tinct square  foot  or  two  for  sleep.    And  it  was  upstairs. 

A  quarter  of  an  hour  later,  wandering  along  a  dark  passage  on 
my  way  back  to  the  central  hall,  a  door  opened  in  a  very  violent 
and  living  way  and  a  short  rectangular  figure,  the  size  of  a  big 
square  trunk,  issued  forth,  just  in  front  of  me.  I  recognized  this 
figure  fragmentarily — first,  with  a  cold  shudder,  I  recognized  an 
excrescence  of  hair;  then  with  a  jump  I  recognized  a  hat  held  in  its 
hand;  then,  with  a  shrinking,  I  realized  that  I  had  seen  those  flat 
pseudo-American  shoulders  before.  With  a  tidal  wave  of  surging 
emotion,  I  then  recognized  the  whole  man. 


T  k  e    Lit  tie    Rev  tew  39 

It  was  the  implacable  figure  of  the  Fonda  del  Mundo. 

He  moved  along  with  wary  rigidity  ahead,  showing  no  recipro- 
cal sign  of  recognition.  He  turned  corners  with  difficulty,  with  a 
sort  of  rapid  lurch  and  seemed  to  get  stuck  on  the  stairs  just  as  a 
large  American  trunk  would,  borne  by  a  sweating  porter.  At  last 
he  safely  reached  the  hall.  I  was  a  yard  or  two  behind  him.  He 
stopped  to  light  a  cigar,  still  taking  up  an  unconscionable  amount 
of  space.  I  manoeuvred  round  him,  and  gained  one  of  the  doors  of 
the  salle-a-manger.  But  as  I  came  within  his  range  of  vision,  I  also 
became  aware  that  my  presence  in  the  house  was  not  a  surprise  to 
this  sandwich-man  of  Western  citizenship.  His  eye  fastened  on  me, 
with  ruthless  bloodshot  indignation,  a  crystallised  eye  blast  of  the 
Bayonne  episode.  I  had  distinctly  the  impression  of  being  face  to 
face  with  a  ghost,  he  was  so  dead  and  inactive.  And  in  all  my  subse- 
quent dealings  with  him,  this  feeling  of  having  to  deal  with  a  ghost, 
although  a  particulary  mischievous  one,  persisted.  If  before,  my 
anger  at  the  trick  that  had  been  played  on  me  had  dictated  a  speedy 
change  of  lodging,  now  my  anxiety  to  quit  this  roof  had,  natuarally, 
a  tremendous  incentive.  After  dinner,  I  went  forth  boldly  in  search 
of  the  wonderful  American  enemy.  Surely  I  had  been  condemned, 
in  some  indirect  way,  by  him,  to  the  cupboard  beside  the  kitchen. 
No  dungeon  could  have  been  worse.  Had  I  then  known,  as  I  learnt 
later,  that  he  was  the  owner  of  this  hotel,  the  mediaeval  analogy 
would  have  been  still  more  complete.    He  now  had  me  in  his  castle. 

I  found  him,  in  sinister  conjunction  with  the  Proprietor  or  Man- 
ager as  I  suppose  he  was,  in  the  lobby  of  the  hotel.  He  turned  slightly 
away  as  I  came  up  to  him,  with  a  sulky  indifference  due  to  self-re- 
straint. Evidently  tJie  time  for  action  was  not  ripe.  There  was  no 
pretence  of  not  recognising  me.  As  though  our  conversation  in  the 
Fonda  del  Mundo  had  taken  place  a  half  an  hour  before,  we  ac- 
knowledged in  no  way  a  consciousness  of  the  lapse  of  time,  only  of 
the  shifted  scene. 

"Well,  colonel,  "I  said,  adopting  an  allocution  of  the  United 
States,  "taking  the  air?" 

He  went  on  smoking. 

"This  is  a  nice  little  town." 

"I'm  glad  you  like  it",  he  replied  in  French,  as  though  I  was 
not  worthy  even  to  hear  his  American  accent,  and  that,  if  any  com- 
munication was  to  be  held  with  me,  French  must  serve. 

"I  shall  make  a  stay  of  some  weeks  here",  I  said  with  indulgent 
defiance.    • 


40  The    Little    Review 

"Oui?" 

"But  not  in  this  Hotel." 

He  got  up  with  something  of  his  Bayonne  look  about  him. 

"No,  I  Wouldn't.  You  might  not  find  it  a  very  comfortable 
hotel." 

He  walked  away  hurriedly,  as  a  powder  magazine  might  walk 
away  from  a  fuse,  if  it  did  not,  for  some  reason,  want  to  blow  up  for 
the  moment. 

The  upstairs  and  less  dreadful  dungeon  with  its  layers  of  clothes, 
would  have  been  an  admirable  place  for  a  murder. 

Not  a  sound  would  have  penetrated  its  woolen  masses  and  thick 
Spanish  walls.  But  the  next  morning  I  was  still  alive  when  I  woke 
up.  I  set  out  after  breakfast  to  look  for  new  quarters.  My  prac- 
tised eye  had  soon  measured  the  inconsistencies  of  most  of  the  pen- 
sions of  the  town.  But  a  place  in  the  Calle  Real  suited  me  all 
right  arid  I  decided  to  stop  there  for  the  time. 

Tihis  room  again  was  a  cupboard.  But  it  was  a  human  cupboard 
and  not  a  clothes  cupboard.  It  was  one  of  four  tributaries  of  the 
dining-room.  My  bedroom  door  was  just  beside  my  place  at  table — 
the  entire  animal  life  being  conducted  over  an  area  not  exceeding 
fiftten  compact  square  feet. 

The  extracting  of  my  baggage  from  the  Burgaleza  was  easy 
enough,  except  that  the  rogue  of  a  proprietor  charged  a  heavy  toll, 
sunk  somewhere  in  the  complications  of  the  bill.  As  at  Bayonne, 
there  was  no  sign  of  the  enemy  in  the  morning.  But  I  was  not  so 
sure  this  time  that  I  had  seen  the  last  of  him. 

That  evening  I  came  amongst  my  new  fellow-pensionnaires  for 
the  first  time.  This  place  had  recommended  itself  to  me  partly  be- 
cause the  boarders  would  probably  speak  good  Spanish.  They  were 
mostly  Castilians.  My  presence  caused  no  stir  yvhatever.  Just  as 
a  stone  dropped  in  a  small  pond  which  has  long  been  untouched  and 
has  a  good  thick  coat  of  mildew,  slips  dully  to  the  bottom,  cutting  ai 
clean  little  hole  on  the  surface  slime,  so  I  took  my  place  at  the  bottom 
of  the  table.  But  as  the  pond  will  send  up  its  personal  odour  at  this- 
intrusion,  so  these  people  revealed  something  of  themselves  in  thes 
first  few  minutes,  in  an  illusive  and  immobile  way.  They  must  all 
have  lived  in  that  pension  together  for  an  inconceivable  length  of 
time.  My  neighbour  however  promised  to  be  a  little  El  Dorado  of 
Spanish;  a  small  mine  of  gossip,  grammatical  rules  and  willingness  to 
impart  his  native  riches.  I  struck  a  deep  shaft  of  friendship  into  him 
at  once  and  began  work  without  delay.  He  yielded  in  the  first  three* 
days  a  considerable  quantity  of  pure  ore  —  coming  from  Madrid,  this 


The   Little    Review  41 

ore  was  at  least  30  carot,  thoroughly  tMtaed  and  Castilian.  What  I 
gave  him  in  exchange  was  insignificant.  I  taught  him  nothing.  He 
knew  several  phrases  in  French  and  English,  such  as,  "if  you  please" 
and  "fine  day";  I  merely  confirmed  him  in  these.  Every  day  he 
would  hesitatingly  say  them  over,  and  I  would  assent,  "quite  right" 
and  "very  well  pronounced",  and  then  turn  to  extracting  his  natural 
riches  from  him  for  the  next  hour  or  two.  He  was  a  tall  bearded  man, 
■ihead  of  the  orchestra  of  the  principal  cafe  in  the  town.  Two  large 
cuffs  lay  on  either  side  of  his  plate  during  meals,  the  size  of  serviet- 
tes, and  out  of  them  his  hands  emerged  without  in  any  way  disturb- 
ing them  and  served  him  with  his  food  as  far  as  they  could.  But  he 
had  to  remain  with  his  mouth  quite  near  his  plate,  for  the  cuffs  would 
not  move  a  hair's  breadth.  This  somewhat  annoyed  me,  as  it  muffled 
a  little  the  steady  flow -of  Spanish,  and  even  was  a  cause  of  consider- 
able waste.  I  tried  to  move  the  cuffs  once  or  twice  without  success. 
T'heir  ascendancy  over  him  and  their  indolence  were  phenomenal. 

But  I  was  not  content  merely  to  extract  Spanish  from  him.  I 
wished  to  see  it  in  use:  to  watch  this  stream  of  Spanish  working  the 
mill  of  general  conversation,  for  instance.  But,  although  willing 
enough  himself,  he  had  no  chance  in  this  Pension. 

On  the  third  day  he  invited  me  to  come  round  to  the  cafe  after 
dinner  and  hear  him  play.  Our  dinners  overlapped,  he  leaving 
early.    So,  dinner  over,  I  strolled  round,  alone. 

The  cafe  Pelayo  was  the  only*  really  Parisian  establishment 
in  the  town.  It  was  the  only  one  where  tiie  Madrilenos  and  other 
Spaniards  proper,  resident  in  Ponta  Issandra,  went  regularly.  I 
entered,  peering  round  in  a  business-like  way  at  "Its  monotonously 
mirrored  walls  and  gilded  ceiling.  This  was  a  building  that  must 
contain  prodigious  quantities  of  Spanish  every  evening.  Here  I 
should  virtually  pass  my  examination. 

In  a  lull  of  the  music,  my  chef  d'orchestre  came  over  to  me, 
and  presented  me  to  a  large  group  of  "consommateurs",  friends  of 
his.    It  was  an  easy  matter,  from  that  moment,  to  become  acquainted 
with  everybody  in  the  cafe. 

I  did  not  approach  Spaniards  in  general  with  any  very  romantic 
notion.  Each  man  I  met  possessed  equally  an  ancient  and  admirable 
tongue,  however  degenerate  himself.  He  often  appeared  like  some 
rotten  tree,  in  which  a  swarm  of  words  had  nested.  I,  like  a  bee- 
cultivator,  found  it  my  business  to  transplant  this  vagrant  swarm  to 
a  hive  prepared  —  in  which  already  two  kindred  swarms  were  bil- 
leted, as  I  have  said.  A  language  has  its  habits  and  idiosyncrasies 
just  like  a  species  of  insect,  as  my  first  professor  comfortably  ex- 


42  The    Little    Review 


plained;  its  thousands  of  little  words  and  parts  of  speech  have  to  be 
carefully  studied  and  manipulated.    So  I  had  my  hands  full. 

When  the  cafe  closed,  I  went  home  with  Don  Pedro,  chef  d'or- 
chestre,  to  the  Pension.  Every  evening,  after  dinner  —  and  at  lunch 
time  as  well  —  I  repaired  there.  This  lasted  for  three  or  four  days. 
I  now  had  plenty  of  opportunity  of  talking  Spanish.  I  had  mo- 
mentarily forgotten  my  American  enemy. 

On  the  fifth  evening,  I  entered  the  Cafe  as  usual,  making  towards 
my  most  useful  and  intelligent  group.  But  then,  with  a  sinking  of 
the  heart,  I  saw  the  rectangular  form  of  my  ubiquitous  enemy, 
quartered  with  an  air  of  demoniac  permanence  in  their  midst.  A 
mechanic  who  finds  a  big  lump  of  alien  metal  stuck  in  the  very 
heart  of  his  machinery  —  what  simile  shall  I  find  for  my  dismay? 
To  proceed  somewhat  with  this  image,  as  this  unhappy  engineer 
might  dash  to  the  cranks  or  organ  stops  of  his  machine,  so  I  dashed 
to  several  of  my  formerly  most  willing  listeners  and  talkers.  I 
gave  one  a  wrench  and  another  a  screw  but  I  found  that  already  the 
machine  had  become  recalcitrant. 

I  need  not  enumerate  the  various  stages  of  my  defeat  on  that 
evening.    It  was  more  or  less  a  passive  and  moral  battle,  rather  than 
one  with  any  evident  show  of  the  secretly  bitter  and  desperate  nature 
of  the  passions  engaged.    Of  course,  the  inclusion  of  so  many  people 
unavoidably  caused   certain   "brusqueries"   here   and   there.     The 
gradual  cooling  down  of  the  whole  room  towards  me,  the  dreadful  icy 
currents  of  dislike  that  swept  over  the  chain  of  little  drinking  groups^ 
—  little  eddies,  or  tiny  whirlpools  of  conversation  —  from  that  mys- 
tical centre  of  hostility,  that  soul  that  recognised  in  me  something^ 
icily  antipodean  too,  no  doubt;    the  immobile  figure  of  America's? 
newest  and  most  mysterious  child,  apparently  emitting  these  strongi 
waves  without  effort,  as  naturally  as  a  fountain  :  all  this,  with  great' 
vexation,  I  felt  happening  almost  in  the  first  moment.     It  almost 
seemed  as  though  he  had  stayed  away  from  this  haunt  of  his  foresee- 
ing what  would  happen.    He  had  waited  until  I  was  settled  and  there* 
was  something  palpable  to  attack.    His  absence  may  have  had  soma 
more  natural  cause. 

What  exactly  he  said  about  me  I  never  discovered.  As  at 
Bayonne  I  saw  the  mouth  working  and  I  felt  the  effects  only.  NO' 
doubt  it  was  the  subtlest  and  most  electric  thing  that  could  be  found; 
brief,  searching  and  annihilating.  Perhaps  something  seemingly 
crude  —  that  I  was  a  spy  —  may  have  recommended  itself  to  hit 
ingenuity.  But  I  expect  it  was  a  meaningless  or  rather  indefinite, 
blast  of  disapprobation  that  he  blew  upon  me,  an  eerie  and  stinging, 


I 


The   Little   Review  43 


wind  of  personal  unexplained  scorn  and  hatred.    He  evidently  exer- 
cised a  queer  ascendancy  in  the  cafe  Pelayo,  explained  superficially 
by  his  commercial  prestige,  but  due  really  to  his  extraordinary  char-  "" 
acter  —  moulded  by  the  sublime  force  of  his  illusion. 

His  inscrutable  immobility,  his  unaccountable  self-control  (for 
such  a  person,  and  feeling  as  he  did  towards  me)  were  of  course  the 
American  or  Anglo-Saxon  coolness  and  coldness  as  reflected,  or  por- 
trayed, in  this  violent  human  mirror. 

I  left  the  Cafe  earlier  than  usual,  before  the  chef  d'orchestre.  It 
was  the  following  morning  at  lunch  when  I  next  saw  him.  He  was 
embarrassed.  His  eyes  wavered  in  my  direction  fascinated  and 
inquisitive.  He  found  it  difficult  to  realise  that  his  respect  for  me  had 
to  end  and  give  place  to  another  feeling. 

"You  know  Monsieur  de  Valmore?"  he  asked. 

"That  little  cur  of  a  Frenchman,  do  you  mean  ?  " 

I  knew  this  description  of  my  wonderful  enemy  was  vulgar  and 
inexact.  But  often  with  an  ordinary  intercourse  it  is  necessary  to 
be  vulgar  and  inexact. 

But  this  way  of  describing  Monsieur  de  Valmore  appeared  to 
the  chef  d'orchestre  so  eccentric,  apart  from  its  profanity,  that  I  lost 
at  once  in  Don  Pedro's  sympathy. 

He  told  me,  however,  all  about  him;  vulgar  details  that  did  not 
touch  on  the  real  conditions  of  this  life. 

"He  owns  the  Burgaleza  and  many  houses  in  Pontaisandra. 
Ships,  too.    Es  Americano"  he  added. 

The  American  War  was  still  fresh  in  the  memory  of  all  Span- 
iardr.  But  being  obviously  a  Frenchman,  they  could  allow  them- 
selves to  admire  in  him  all  the  commercial  cunning  and  other  quali- 
ties that  their  disgusted  souls  admired  in  the  Yankee. 

Vexations  and  hindrances  of  all  sorts  now  made  my  stay  in 
Pontaissandra  useless  and  depressing.  Don  Pedro  had  generally  al- 
most finished  when  we  came  to  dinner  and  I  was  forced  to  shut  up 
the  mine,  so  to  speak.  Nothing  more  was  to  be  extracted,  except 
uncomfortable  monosyllables.  The  rest  of  the  boarders  remained 
morose  and  inaccessible.  I  went  once  more  to  the  Cafe  Palayo,  but 
the  waiters  even  seemed  affected.  The  new  cafe  I  chose  yielded 
nothing  but  Gallego  chatter,  and  the  gargon  was  not  gregarious. 

There  was  little  encouragement  to  try  another  pension  and  stay 
on  in  Pontaissandra.  I  made  up  my  mind  to  go  to  Coruna.  This 
would  waste  a  bit  of  time.  But  there  is  more  Gallego  than  Spanish 
spoken  in  Galicia,  even  in  the  cities.  Too  easily  automatic  a  conquest 
^  it  may  seem,  Monsieur  de  Valmore  had  left  me  nothing  but  the 


44  The    Little    Review 

Gallegos.  I  was  not  getting  anything  like  the  practice  in  Spanish 
necessary,  and  this  necessity  infected  the  whole  air  of  the  place.  I 
began  to  get  neuresthenic  about  the  necessity  of  learning  this  tire- 
some language.  I  would  go  to  Coruna  in  any  case  .  On  the  fol- 
lowing day,  some  hours  before  the  time  for  the  train,  I  paraded  the 
line  of  streets  towards  the  station,  with  the  feeling  that  I  was  no 
longer  there.  The  place  seemed  cooling  down  and  growing  strange 
already  prematurely  and  looked  very  cheerless.  But  the  miracle 
happened,  coming  with  a  gradual  flowering  of  beauty.  A  more 
beautiful  checkmate  never  occurred  in  any  record  of  exquisite 
war- fare. 

The  terrible  ethnological  difference  that  existed  between  Mon- 
sieur de  Valmore  and  myself  up  till  that  moment  showed  every  sign 
of  ending  in  a  w^eird  and  revolting  defeat  for  me.  The  "moment"  I 
refer  to  was  that  in  which  I  turned  out  of  the  High  Street,  into  the 
short  hilly  avenue  where  the  Post  Office  lay.  I  had  some  letters  to 
post,  communications  adorned  with  every  variety  of  expletives  about 
Spanish,  Pontassandra  and  other  opposite  things. 

On  turning  the  corner  I  at  once  became  aware  of  three  anoma- 
lous figures  walking  just  in  front  of  me.  They  were  all  three  of  the 
proportion  known  in  certain  climes  as  "husky".  When  I  say  they 
were  walking,  I  should  describe  their  movements  more  accurately 
as  wading  —  wading  through  the  air,  evidently  towards  the  Post 
Office.  Their  carriage  was  slightly  rolling,  like  a  ship  under  weigh. 
They  occasionally  bumped  into  each  other,  but  did  not  seem  tp 
mind  this.  Yet  no  one  would  have  mistaken  these  three  young  men 
—  for  such  they  were  —  for  drunkards.  But  I  daresay  you  will  liave 
already  guessed.  It  would  under  other  circumstances,  have  had  no 
difficulty  in  entering  my  head.  As  it  was,  there  seemed  a  certain  im- 
pediment of  consciousness  when  any  phenomena  of  that  sort  was 
concerned.  These  three  figures  were  three  Americans!  —  This  seems 
very  simple,  I  know,  very  simple.  This  was  abstract  fact,  however. 
This  very  simple  and  unabstruse  fact  trembled  and  lingered  before 
completely  entering  into  my  consciousness.  The  extreme  rapidity  of 
my  mind  in  another  sense  —  in  seeing  all  this  fact,  if  verifieid,  might 
signify  to  me  —  may  have  bein  responsible  for  that.  Tflien  one  of 
them,  on  turning  his  head,  displays  the  familiar  features  of  Taffany, 
a  Mississippi  freind  of  mine.  I  simultaneously  recognized  Blauenfeld 
and  Morton,  the  other  two  members  of  a  trio.  A  real  trio,  like  real 
twins,  is  rarer  than  one  thinks.  It  is  one  of  the  strangest  and  clos- 
est of  human  relationships.  This  one  was  the  remnant  of  a  quartet. 
I  had  met  it  first  in  Paris.  « 


The    Little    Review  45 

In  becoming,  from  any  three  Americans,  three  of  my  friends, 
they  precipitated  in  a  most  startling  way  the  vivid  and  full-blooded 
hope,  optimism,  reinstatement  of  vitality,  contained  in  the  possibili- 
ties wonderfully  hidden  in  tJiis  meeting. 

Two  steps  brought  me  up  with  them  and  my  cordiality  almost 
exceeded  theirs. 

"Why,  if  that  doesn't  beat  everything!  How  did  you  get  here?" 
shouted  Taffany, 

"Been  here  long?  How  do  you  like  it?  What  do  you  think  of 
the  town?"  pressed  Blauenfeld. 

"Where  are  you  staying?  Have  you  struck  a  good  Hotel?" 
demanded  Morton. 

Optimism,  consciousness  of  power  (rib  wonder,  I  thought)  surged 
out  of  them.  Ah,  the  kindness!  the  overwhelming  kindness.  I 
bathed  voluptuously  in  this  American  greeting  —  this  real  American 
greeting.  '■Nothing  naturalised  about  that.  At  the  same  time  I  felt 
almost  an  awe  at  the  thought  of  my  friends'  dangerous  nationality. 
These  good  fellows  I  knew  and  liked  so  well  seemed  for  the  mo- 
ment to  have  some  intermixture  of  the  strangeness  of  Monsieur 
de  Valmore. 

However,  I  measured  with  enthusiasm  their  egregious  breadth  of 
shoulder,  the  exorbitance  of  their  "pants."  They  could  not  be  too 
American,  or  American  enough,  for  me.  Had  diey  appeared  in  a 
star  and  stripe  swallow  tail  suit,  like  the  cartoons  of  Uncle  Sam,  I 
should  not  have  been  satisfied. 

I  felt  rather  like  some  Eastern  potentate  who,  having  been 
continually  defeated  in  battle  by  a  neighbour  because  of  the  presence 
in  the  latter's  army  of  half  a  dozen  elephants,  suddenly  becomes  pos- 
sessed of  a  couple  of  dozen  himself.  The  amount  of  Americanism  at 
my  disposal  now. was  overwhelming.  Talk  of  super-Dreadnoughts! 
But  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  super-American.  It  can't  be  done. 
It  is  one  thing  that  can't  be  supered. 

Or  I  felt  like  some  chemist  who  gets  a  temporary  monopoly 
of  a  rare  and  potent  chemical  substance.  The  amount  of  pure  un- 
adulterated American  stuff  in  my  possession  at  present  would  neu- 
tralize the  Americanism  in  Monsieur  de  Valmore  in  a  brace  of 
shakes,  and  leave  nothing  but  a  scraggy  little  Gascon. 
'  I  must  have  behaved  rather  oddly  to  my  friends.  As  a  starving 
man,  unexpectedly  presented  with  a  shilling,  might  squeeze  it  tightly 
in  his  fist  and  run  along,  for  fear  of  its  melting  or  escaping  in  some 
way,  till  he  gets  to  the  nearest  cook  shop,  so  I  cherished  my  three 
Americans.     I  was  inclined  to  shelter  them  as  though  they  were 


46  The    Little    Review 

fragile,  to  see  they  didn't  get  run  over,  or  expose  themselves  to  the 
sun.  Each  transatlantic  quaintness  of  speech  or  gesture  I  received 
with  a  positive  ovation. 

All  thoughts  of  Corunua  disappeared.  The  letters  remained 
unposted. 

First  of  all  I  took  my  trio  into  a  little  cafe  near  the  Post  Office, 
and  told  them  at  once  what  was  expected  of  them. 

"There's  one  of  the  'boys'  here,"  I  said. 

"Oh?    An  American?"  Morton  asked  seriously. 

"Well,  he  deserves  to  be.  But  he  began  too  late  in  life,  I 
think.  He  hails  frrom  the  South  of  France  and  Americanism  came 
to  him  as  a  revelation  when  youth  had  already  past.  He  repented 
tardily  but  sincerely  of  his  misguided  early  nationality.  But  his 
years  spent  as  a  Frenchman  have  left  their  mark.  In  the  meantime, 
he  won't  leave  Englishmen  alone.  He  persecutes  them,  apparently, 
wherever  he  finds  them." 

"He  mustn't  do  that!"    Taffany  said  with  resolution. 

"Why,  no,  I  guess  he  musn't,"  said  Blauenfeld. 

"I  knew  you'd  say  that,"  I  continued,  "It's  a  rank  abuse  of 
authority  and  I  was  sure  would  be  regretted  at  headquarters.  Now  |i 
if  you  could  only  be  present,  unseen,  and  witness  how  I,  for  instance,  I 
am  oppressed  by  this  fanatic  fellow  citizen  of  yours;  and  if  you  could  i 
then  issue  forth,  and  reprove  him,  and  tell  him  not  to  do  it  again,  [ 
I  should  be  much  obliged.  |i 

"I'm  very  sorry  you  should  have^  to  complain,  Mr.  Pine  of 
treatment  of  that  sort  —  bilt  what  sort  is  it,  anyway?"  | 

I  gave  a  lurid  picture  of  my  tribulations,  to  the  scandal  and 
indignation  of  my  friends.  They  at  once  placed  themselves,  and 
laughingly,  their  Americanism  —  any  quantity  of  that  mixture  in 
their  organisms  —  at  my  disposal. 

I  considered  it  of  the  first  importance  that  Monsieur  de  Val- 
more  should  not  get  wind  of  what  had  happened.  I  took  my  threes 
Americans  cautiously  out  of  the  cafe,  and  as  their  hotel  was  near  thej 
station  and  not  near  the  enemy's  haunts,  I  encouraged  their  going 
back  to  it.  I  also  supposed  that  they  would  wish  to  make  some 
toilet  for  the  evening,  and  relied  on  their  good  sense  to  put  on  their 
baggiest  trousers  —  I  dreamed  of  even  baggier  ones  than  they  had 
on  —  I  knew  that,  unlike  other  nations,  the  smarter  an  American's 
clothes,  the  more  American  they  are. 

My  army  was  in  excellent  form.    A  rollicking  good  humour  pre- 
vailed.   I  kept  them  out  of  the  way  till  nightfall  and  then  after 
early  dinner,  by  a  circuitous  route,  approached  the  cafe  Pelayo. 


The    Little    Review  47 

I  have  not  yet  described  my  forces.  I  will  adopt  the  unusual 
method  of  describing  what  was  in  their  pockets.  What  is  in  a  man's 
pockets  is  generally  the  outposts  of  his  soul;  and  being  only  a 
tenth  of  an  inch  below  the  surface  and  infinitely  more  accessible 
than  the  soul,  I  wonder  that  this  compromise  has  never  been  hit 
upon  in  the  history  of  exuberant  and  creative  fiction.  I  feel  it  would 
have  suited  the  clothes  of  Dickens'  characters.  The  contents  of  a 
man's  pockets  is  like  a  spiritual  deposit  just  beneath  the  surface,  or 
like  bubbles  from  the  deep  well  beneath. 

Of  course  it  will  be  only  guesswork.  But  had  I  pretended  to 
deeper  insight  it  would  be  more  so  still.  The  soil  of  Taffany,  if  I 
may  so  describe  his  clothing,  was  of  a  rich  uniform,  brown  earthern 
appearance,  with  little  veins,  like  the  trace  of  some  attenuated  min- 
eral running  down  it.  His  trouser  pockets  contained  a  couple  of 
knives,  a  revolver,  a  reckless  mass  of  coin  and  some  string.  The 
form  of  these  knives  denoted  at  once  a  fierce  and  inventive  nature. 
iOne  of  them  was  not  unlike  a  "bowie"  knife,  although  it  had,  I  think, 
never  been  used  for  slaughter.  No  doubt  in  ''whittling"  a  stick  or 
iparing  his  nails  its  appearance  in  his  hand  helped  to  the  sensation 
of  some  blood-thirsty  act.  The  other  knife  when  opened  was  a  little 
hedgehog  of  stumpy  blades,  skewers,  "poking  and  prodding  implements 
and  corkscrews.  With  this  Taffany  went  through  life  prying  open 
obstinate  fruit  tins,  pulling  out  corks,  manufacturing  pipes,  etc. 
The  mass  of  money,  silver  and  copper,  accounted  somewhat  for  the 
richness  of  the  soil  in  which  it  lay  (as  I  have  mentioned)  —  although 
this  may  not  tally  with  any  known  geology  —  also,  along  with  the 
notes  in  the  pockets  above,  acted  as  fuel  to  impel  Taffany  over  wide 
lapses  of  land  and  sea.  By  its  disposition  and  neighbourhood  i' 
should  belong  to  a  man  who  regarded  it  rather  as  water  to  draw,  and 
in  large  quantities,  often,  according  to  the  needs  of  life  —  a  sober 
life  —  and  for  whom  it  had  none  of  the  attributes  of  wine  or  drugs 
—  not  even  of  beer!  Just  homely  water,  of  which  there  must  be 
much.  The  revolver  was  the  only  voice  one  would  hear  of  the  thor- 
oughly roused  Taffany. 

This  was  the  practical  area.  As  one  mounted  higher  in  this 
mountainous  soil  one  came  to  the  sentimental  and  intellectual  tracts 
ibout  the  breast,  letters  from  his  family,  paper  cuttings  and  so  on. 

Blauenfeld  had  in  his  coat  pocket  the  "Digit  of  the  Moon".  So 
had  Morton  in  his.  This  book  had  been  recommended  to  them  by 
in  American  girl  in  a  Paris  studio.  They  had  very  seriously  and 
gratefully  made  a  note  of  it,  after  several  weeks  had  procured  it 
md  were  now  reading  it  assidiously.     Blauenfeld's  money  was  in 


48  The    Little    Review 


strata  —  copper,  silver,  etc.    He  had  more  than  Taffany,  but  paio 
more  attention  to  it.    A  rich  black  enveloped  him. 

Morton  possessed  a  little  seraglio  of  photographs  of  ladies  thai 
his  undecided  and  catholic  fancy  had  made  him  indule  in.  The} 
all  had  great  sexual  charm,  tactfully  displayed.  He  had  his  favorite- 
photograph,  of  course.    It  was  the  least  tactful,  merely,  I  am  afraid. 

Then  there  was  a  card-case,  a  dictionary,  a  map,  with  mud 
other  matter.    In  fact,  what  was  found  in  Morton's  pockets  was  o 
such  a  complicated  nature  that  it  would  be  difficult  to  classify  it.    Hi 
soul,  as  it  happened,  was  momentarily  nearer  the  surface  thai, 
the  case  of  his  companions. 

That  these  three  men  were  my  willing  instruments  needs  no  e.\ 
planation,  as  we  were  excellent  comrades.  A  sense  of  humour  i 
the  chief  and  most  inalienable  right  of  the  American  citizen.  I 
goes  always  hand  in  hand  with  Liberty.  These  three  good  fellow  [ 
went  campaigning  with  me,  even  put  themselves  under  my  orden 
with  enthusiasm.  They  were  in  sympathy  with  my  cause,  which  wa ; 
that  of  humour.  We  were  all  four  Soldiers  of  Humour.  But,  as  i 
was  my  magnificent  discovery  and  patent  quarrel,  it  was  my  battlt 
and  they  willingly  marched  at  my  heels,  as  I  should  have  done  a 
theirs  had  it  been  the  other  way  about.  The  natural  enemy  of  th 
Soldier  of  Humour,  and  against  whom  he  carries  on  uproarious,  enc 
less  and  delighted  warfare,  is  the  man  or  the  multitude  bereft  c 
that  astonishing  sense.  This  wonderful  warrior,  to  make  the  battl 
more  exquisite  will  even  feign  a  dullness,  and  falling  away  froi  ^ 
the  keenness,  of  that  sense  .  In  my  historic  struggle  with  Monsiet 
de  Valmore,  sometimes  I  pretended  to  go  down  into  the  headlon 
cockpit  of  his  unconsciousness,  and  grappled  with  him  on  equal  term 

But  no  doubt  such  encounters  nowadays  are  mostly  bloodies 
I  am  sure  that  many  of  the  soldiers  and  adventurers  of  the  Middl 
Ages  were  really  Soldiers  of  Humour,  unrecognised  and  unclassifiet 
I  know  that  many  a  duel  has  been  fought  in  this  solemn  cause.  , 
man  of  this  temper  and  category  will,  perhaps  carefully  "entretenit 
or  cherish  a  wide  circle  of  accessible  enemies  that  his  sword  ma| 
not  rust.  Any  other  quarrel  may  be  patched  up.  But  what  can  t 
described  as  a  quarrel  of  humour  divides  men  for  ever. 

It  is  usually  conceded  that  Humour  is  the  ''discovery  of  tl 
Anglo-Saxon  race.  I  felt  this  racial  solidarity  as  I  was  marching  o 
the  Cafe  Pelayo. 

I  revised  my  plan  of  action.  Taffany  and  his  two  friends  wa 
to  enter  the  cafe,  establish  themselves  autocratically  there,  becoa 
acquainted  with  Monsieur  de  Valmore  —  almost  certainly  the  latU 


s 


II! 
it 
!1 


The    Little    Review  -49 

rould  at  once  approach  his  fellow-citizens,  —  and  then  I  was  to 
lUt  in  an  appearance. 

The  Cafe  was  entered  to  the  strains  of 

''There  is  a  tavern  in  the  town,  in  the  town" 
ung  by  my  three  allies. 

I  imagined  the  glow  of  national  pride  and  delighted  recognition 
lat  would  invade  Monsieur  de  Valmore  on  hearing  this  air.  Apart 
rem  the  sentimental  reason  —  its  use  as  a  kind  of  battle-song  — 
ras  the  practical  one  that  this  noisy  entrance^ would  at  once  attract 
ly  enemy's  attention. 

I  awaited  events  at  a  neighbouring  cafe. 

Ten  minutes  passed,  and  I  knew  that  my  friends  had  "located" 
lonsieur  de  Valmore,  even  if  they  had  not  begun  operations.  Else 
ley  would  have  returned  to  my  place  of  waiting.  I  wallowed  naively 
I  a  superb  coolness  and  indifference;  as  a  man  who  has  set  some 
lachinery  going,  which  can  now  run  by  itself,  turns  nonchalantly 
way,  paying  no  more  attention  to  it.  I  felt  strongly  the  stage  ana- 
igy.  I  became  rather  conscious  of  my  appearance.  I  must  await 
rcxy  cue"  but  was  sure  of  my  reception.  From  time  to  time  I  glanced 
ily  down  the  road,  and  at  last  saw  Blauenfeld  making  towards  me, 
is  usual  American  swing  of  the  body  complicated  by  rhythmical  up- 
eavals  of  mirth  into  trampling  and  stumblings  and  slappings  of  his 
ligh  somewhere  in  the  folds  of  his  clothes.  I  paid  for  my  coffee 
hile  he  was  coming  up,  and  then  turned  to  him. 

"All  ready?" 

"Yep!     we've  got  him  fine.    Come  and  have  a  look  at  him." 

"Did  he  carry  out  his  part  of  the  programme  according  to  my 
■rangements?" 

"Why,  yes.  We  went  right  in,  and  all  three  spotted  him  at  the 
ime  time.  Taffany  manoeuvred  in  the  vicinity,  and  Morty  and 
e  coquetted  round  in  his  pro-pinquity.  We  could  see  his  eyes  be- 
nning  to  stick  out  of  his  head,  and  his  mouth  watering.  At  last 
I  could  hold  himself  in  no  longer;  we  came  together  with  a  hiss  and 
)I utter  of  joy.  He  called  up  a  tray  full  of  drinks,  to  take  the  raw- 
'ss  off  our  meeting  He  can't  have  seen  an  American  for  months. 
e  just  gobbled  us  up.  There  ain't  nothing  left  of  Taffany.  He's 
!ade  us  promise  to  go  to  his  Ho-tel  tonight." 

I  approached  the  lurid  stronghold  of  citizenship,  with  its  pre- 
intious  palmy  terrace,  my  mouth  a  little  drawn  and  pinched,  eye- 
lows  raised,  like  a  fastidious  expert  called  in  somewhere  to  decide  a 
(batable  point.  This  figure  dictated  my  manner  now.  I  entered 
te  swing  doors  4nd  looked  round  in  a  cold  and  bosiness-Iike  way, 


1 


50  The    Little    Review 


as  a  doctor  would  in  saying  loftily,  "Where  is  the  patient?" 

The  patient  was  there  right  enough,  surrounded  by  the  nurses 
I  had  sent.     There  sat  Monsieur  de  Valmore  in  as  defenceless  a 
state  of  beautitude  as  possible.    He  stared  at  me  with  an  incredulous, 
grin  at  first.    I  believe  that  in  this  moment  of  exquisite  plenitude  off 
life'he  would  have  been  willing  to  extend  to  me  a  temporary  pardonf 
—  a  passe-partout  to  his  cafe  for  the  evening. 

I  approached  him  with  impassive  professional  rapidity,  my  eye 
fixed  on  him  (the  physician  analogy)  already  making  my  diagnosis. 
I  was  so  carried  away  by  this  that  I  almost  began  things  by  asking  j 
him  to  put  out  his  tongue.    Instead  I  sat  down  carefully  in  front  of 
him  and  examined  him  in  silence 

Inr  the  midst  of  an  enervating  debauch,  or  barely  convalescent 
from  a  bad  illness,  confronted  by  his  mortalest  enemy,  no  man  could 
have  looked  more  blank.  But  as  such  a  man  might  turn  to  his  boon 
cori^panions  or  to  his  nurse  or  attendants  for  help,  so  Monsieur  de 
Valmore  turned  with  a  characteristic  blank  childish  appeal  to  Taf- 
fany.  Perhaps  he  was  shy  or  diffident  of  taking  up  actively  his 
great  role,  when  more  truly  great  actors  were  present.  Would  not 
divine  American  speak,  or  thunder,  through  them,  at  this  intruder? 

"I  guess  you  don't  know  each  other"  said  Taffany,  "Say,  Mr. 
de  Valmore,  here's  a  friend  of  mine,  Mr.  Arthur  Pine." 

My  enemy  pulled  himself  together  as  though  the  different  parts 
of  his  body  all  wanted  to  leap  away  in  different  directions,  and  he, 
with  huge  effort,  were  preventing  such  disintegration.  An  attempt 
at  a  bow  appeared  as  a  chaotic  movement  of  various  limbs  and 
organs.  The  bow  had  met  other  movements  on  the  way,  and  nev«» 
became  a  bow  at  all.  An  extraordinary  confusion  beset  his  body. 
The  beginning  fo  a  score  of  actions  ran  over  it  blindly  andi 
disappeared. 

"Guess  Mr.  de  Valmore  ain't  quite  comfortable  in  that  chair,^ 
Morty.     Give  him  yours." 

And  in  this  chaotic  and  unusual  state  he  was  hustled  from  0M» 
chair  to  the  other,  like  a  sack  of  mildly  expostulating  potatoes. 

His  racial  instinct  was  undergoing  the  severest  revolution  it 
has  yet  known.  It  was  somewhat  in  the  state  of  a  South  American 
Republic  which  has  had  three  Presidents  and  an  Emperor  in  a  fort- 
night and  is  just  electing  a  provisional  Dictator.  It  was  as  thou^ 
an  incarnation  of  sacred  America  herself  had  commanded  him  to  tak« 
me  to  his  bosom  .  And,  as  the  scope  of  my  victory  dawned  upon  him. 
his  personal  mortification  assumed  the  proportions  of  a  national 
calamity.    For  the  first  time  since  the  sealing  of  his  citizenship  h( 


The    Little    Review  Si 

felt  that  he  was  only  a  Frenchman  from  the  Middi — ^hardly  as  near 
an  American,  in  point  of  fact,  as  even  an  Englishman  is. 

The  soldier  of  Humour  is  chivalrous,  tiiough  implacable.  I 
merely  drank  a  bottle  of  champagne  at  his  expense;  made  Don  Pedro 
and  his  orchestra  perform  three  extras,  all  made  up  of  the  most  in- 
tensely national  English  light  comedy  music,  such  as  San  Toy  and 
Our  Miss  Gibbs.  Taffany,  for  whom  Monsieur  de  Valmore  enter- 
tained the  maximum  of  respect  —  held  him  solemnly  for  some  time 
with  a  detailed  and  fabulous  enumeration  of  my  virtues.  Before 
long  I  withdrew  with  my  forces  to  riot  in  barbarous  triumph  else- 
where for  the  rest  of  the  evening. 

During  the  next  two  days  I  on  several  occasions  visited  the  bat- 
tlefield, but  Monsieur  de  Valmore  had  vanished.  His  disappearance 
alcjne  would  have  been  sufficient  to  tell  me  that  my  visit  to  Spain 
was  terminated.  And  in  fact  two  days  later  I  left  Pontaissandra 
with  the  Americans,  parting  with  them  at  Tuy  and  myself  con- 
tinuing on  the  Leon,  San  Sebastian  route  back  to  France  and  event- 
ually to  Paris. 

I  was  taking  away  with  me  a  good  deal  of  Spanish,  but  in  a 
rather  battered  or  at  least  fragmentary  condition.  I  interpret  Span- 
ish now,  among  other  things,  but  with  a  hesitating  lack  of  finish 
that  shows  traces  of  the  stress  of  this  time  I  have  just  described. 

Arrived  at  Bayonne,  I  left  the  railway  station  with  a  momen- 
tarily increasing  premonition.  It  was  already  night  time.  Stepping 
rapidly  across  the  square,  I  hurried  down  the  hall-way  of  the  Fonda 
del  Mundo,  and  turning  brusquely  and  directly  into  the  dining  room 
of  the  Inn  gazed  round  me  almost  shocked  not  to  find  what  I  had 
half  expected.  I  sat  down,  pilotting  myself  alertly  and  safely 
through  the  menu.  Although  Monsieur  de  Valmore  had  not  been 
there  to  greet  me,  as  good  or  better  than  his  presence  seemed  to  be 
attending  me  on  my  withdrawel  from  Spain.  I  still  heard  in  this 
naked  little  room,  as  the  wash  of  the  sea  in  a  shell,  the  echo  of  the 
first  whisperings  of  his  weird  displeasure.  Next  day  I  arrived  in 
Paris,  my  Spanish  nightmare  shuffled  off  long  before  I  reached  that 
hum-drum  spot. 


52  The    Little    Review 


THOUGHTS  FROM  A  COUNTRY  VICARAGE. 

I  PRINT  the  following  letter,  or  rather  part  of  a  letter,  not  be- 
cause I  wish  to  commit  either  myself  or  The  Little  Review  to  the 
opinions  therein  expressed.  We  are  not  a  propagandist  organ,  and 
the  religion  of  the  multitude  is  not  our  affair.  It  is  however  our  af- 
fair to  take  note  of  what  things  are  thought  by  our  contemporaries, 
and  thus  to  leave  as  nearly  as  possible  a  true  record  of  our  time. 
Neither  is  the  letter  itself  propaganda.  It  was  written  to  a  friend; 
as  the  Review  is  mentioned  the  letter  was  shown  to  me.  I  now  print 
it  with  its  author's  permission.  He  is  the  vicar  of  a  country  parish 
in  England,  a  vicar  highly  efficient  and  deeply  respected  by  his  pa- 
rishioners. Despite  Remy  de  Gourmont's  "lis  comprennent  cela  en 
theologie"  I  think  there  is  very  little  real  toleration  in  America, 
which  being  so  the  reader  may  regard  this  communication  as  a  sign 
of  the  times. 

"I  think  the  churches  have  little  influence;  and  that  little  is  de- 
clining: it  will  decline  more  as  education  spreads.  But  the  clergy 
are  still  aggressive  and  mischievous;  and  they  are  exploiting  the 
present  distress,  although  their  theology  has  brought  them  into  a 
false  and  absurd  position.  Of  course  entire  pacifism  and  non-resis- 
tance are  the  only  logical  deduction  from  the  principles  of  Jesus,  so 
far  as  we  have  any  record  of  anything  he  said;  but  the  churches 
have  never  been  able  to  accept  these  principles:  facts  have  always 
been  too  strong  for  them.  And  only  a  few  fanatics  dare  enunciate 
them  now.  The  majority  of  the  clergy  have  to  talk  the  twaddle 
which  they  circulate  about  reprisals,  and  to  resist  the  ap)plicatfon  of 
military  service  to  themselves.  For  all  these  follies  they  will  pay 
dearly  in  the  end;  but,  in  the  meanwhile,  pacifists  and  Sabbatarian 
fanatics  are  doing  harm. 

"I  suppose  the  majority  of  people  are  neither  brave  nor  logical 
enough  to  see  that  Christianity  is  not  compatible  with  things  as  they 
are.  In  fact,  it  is  a  doctrine  of  death;  and  the  more  thoroughly  it  is 
applied,  the  more  destructive  it  becomes.  If  the  sermon  on  the 
mount  were  carried  out  it  would  lead  mankind  through  idleness,  ig- 
morance,  and  barbarism  to  extinction.     I  don't  know  whether  the 


T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view  53 

latter  would  be  any  loss  to  the  universe;  but  the  journey  would 
be  unpleasant  for  us. 

"The  old  testament  begins  with  a  cosmology  which  we  know  to 
be  untrue.  The  new  testament  begins  by  saying  that  the  Kingdom 
of  Heaven  is  at  hand,  which  two  thousand  years  have  disproved. 
Even  this  does  not  convince  a  fanatic,  or  confute  a  theologian.  The 
only  justification  for  the  sermon  on  the  mount  is  the  speaker's  belief 
that  the  existing  order  was  to  disappear  at  once,  and  a  new  society 
was  to  be  inaugurated,  in  which  the  ideal  would  displace  the  real. 
As  the  premise  was  unsound,  the  conclusion  is  erroneous,  or  worse 
These  errors  took  a  very  large  part  in  wrecking  civilization,  fifteen 
centuries  ago;  and,  so  far  as  they  were  able  to  prevail  they  made 
a  hell  of  Europe  for  over  a  thousand  years.  Tlhe  same  principles 
would  hand  us  over  again  to  the  same  barbarians,  if  they  were  as 
influential  now  as  they  were  in  the  fifth  century,  which  fortunately 
they  are  not;  but  they  are  still  mischievous  and  prevalent  enough, 
so  I  hope  Pound  and  his  allies  will  go  for  them  with  their  sharpest 
weapons,  though  I  think  only  clubs  and  stones  are  effective  against 
the  density  of  theologians:  'satire  or  sense,  alas,  can  Sporus  feel'  ". 

The  rest  of  the  letter  is  concerned  with  English  politics.  I 
think  there  is  a  slight  misunderstanding  of  The  Little  Review  implied 
in  the  last  expression  of  desire.  We  are  not  out  either  to  support  or 
destroy  any  religion.  We  stand  simply  for  the  free  right  of  ex- 
pression.   A  certain  view  is  excellently  and  pithily  put  in  this  letter. 

In  so  far  as  repressive  measures,  measures  against  the  freedom 
of  literary  expression  have  proceeded,  and  often  proceed,  from  rem- 
nants and  superstitions  of  religion,  in  just  so  far  would  we  stand 
against  the  erroneous  opinion  than  any  given  religion  is  ubiquitous  or 
undoubted,  or  subject  to  all  men's  approval.  The  question  whether 
the  fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  was  due  to  Christianity,  or  the  spread 
of  Christianity  due  to  the  fall  of  the  Empire  and  the  ensuing  ignor- 
ance must  be  referred  to  the  research  of  historians.  I  believe  I  have 
somewhere  expressed  the  latter  view,  or  ascribed  it  to  some  character 
in  a  dialogue,  but  I  am,  or  he  is,  subject  to  correction.  It  is  signifi- 
cant that  the  letter  quoted  comes  from  a  churchman  and  not  from 
an  amateur  in  theology  or  a  person  uneducated. 

E.    P. 


54  The    Little    Review 


THE  READER  CRITIC 

Mr.  Lindsay 

Whoop  golly-ip  Zopp,  bop  BIP!! 

I'm  Mr.  Lindsay  with  the  new  sheep-dip, 

I'm  a  loud-voiced  yeller,  I'm  a  prancing  preacher, 

Gawd's  in  his  heaven!     I'm  the  real  High  Reacher. 

When  Moses  to  the  Red  Sea  came 

He  yelled  to  Jehovah  anri  the  answer  was  the  same: 

"I  will  lead  you  onward,  in  a  pillar  of  flame". 

Oh,  the  little  red  fox  whistled, 

Tho'  my  heart  was  like  gristle, 

The  little  red  fox  whistled  and  smoothed  his  reddish  breeches, 

There's  a  wide  wind  blowing  in  the  Illinois  beeches. 

Gawd  in   the  fire, 
Gawd  in  the  wind 

SAID: 

Moses   slew   the   Egyptian, 
"Mr.  Moses,  you  have  sinned 
AND   YOU   SHALL  NOT   SEE 
The  Promised  Land." 

Thus  Gawd  he  sweared  it 
An'  he  spat  on  his  hand: 

Moses^hall  NOT  SEE 

The  promised  land. 
But  I  seen  me  saviour  comin' 
And  saw  his  watch-chain  plain. 

Gawd  in  the  lightning! 

Gentle  Jesus  in  the  raini! 
He  looked  like  the  porter  on  a  "B.  &  O."  train; 
So  fine  an'  portly  was  the  Lord  OF  Hosts 
Who  likes  the  smell  of 

Baked  meats 
Of  barbecues  and  roasts 
An'  purple  an'  silver 
And  gold  and  fine  linen 


The    Little    Review  55 


W'^  And  loves  the  dirty  sinner 

And  loatheth  shameful  sinning. 

When  Daniel  came  to  the  lion's  DEN 

The  big  lion  sniffed  him 

And  his  missus  said: 
I  "Say  when!" 

1  "For  big  Buck  Lindsay  will  put  us  in  a  song, 

'  "I'd  like  to  make  a  meal  of  this 

"But  we  musn't  get  in  wrong." 

Then  Dan'l  in  his  corner 
Softly  crooned  'is  'ymn  of  'Ate, 
And  yelled  in  the  receiver: 
"HI   !!!!!  Belshazzer, 
"YOU'RE  SHORT  WEIGHT  !! 
"The  LORD  has  found  you  wantin' 
"And  these  lions  wantin'  too. 
"I  will  not  stay  a  prophet 
"Unless  you  raise  my  screw. 
"KI,  wung  bang  buzzah 
"Hi  wobble  oggle  ZOO  !!II      • 
"I  won't  remain  a  prophet 
"Unless  you  raise  my  screw." 

So  Bellshazzy  had  him  up 

From  the  lions'  gloomy  cage, 

And   since   then   Dan'ls   come   to   JEDGEMENT 

Are  the  real  Chicago  CRAZE. 

Abel  Sanders. 

[Time  consumed  in  composition  4  minutes  31  seconds.    "Try  Sander's 
'or  celerity"). 


Interior  Decoration  of  Chicago 

^  B.,  Chicago'. 

I  want  to  register  a  protest  somewhere  against  those  people  who 
ire  permitted  to  experiment  in  interior  decoration  on  the  buildings 
)f  Chicago,  when  there  are  artists  here  who  can  do  the  thing.  Mrs. 
Zarpenter  has  just  finished  the  Auditorium.     It  is  shiny,  shiny  gold 


56  T he    Lit  tie    R  e  view 

everywhere,  and  red,  red  walls;  the  edge  of  the  stage  opening  is  a  'l-^( 
blue,  almost  black,  which  spoils  the  architectural  eflfect  of  the  who 
procenium  arch.  The  colours  sound  well  enough  but  they  liave  r. 
relation  to  the  places  where  they  are  used.  They  are  too  profuse,  tc 
all  over,  to  have  any  significance  ....  I  shall  be  glad  when  she  hi 
got  through  the  experimental  stage.  It  doesn't  seem  fair  that  si 
should  have  so  much  education  at  the  expense  of  Chicago's  beauty. 


The    Quintuple     Effulgence 

or 
The    Unapproachable    Splendou 

At  a  feast  of  honour  to  Masefield 

The  following  people  sat  for  their  photograph: 

Mr.  Lawrence  Housman, 

Mr.  Witter  Bynner, 

Mr.  Cale  Young  Rice, 

Mr.  Edwin  Markham, 

Mr.  Louis  Untermeyer, 

Miss  Amy  Lowell, 

Mr.  J.  D.  Something  or  other, 

Mr.  Masefield, 

Mr.  Noyes. 

—5".  0.  S. 


Ezra    Pound's    Critics 

"  ....  It  is  a  tremendous  shock  to  be  hurtled  into  the  compaOi 
of  devil-begotten  Ezra  Pound,  put  up  between  yellow  boards  b 
Alfred  A.  Knopf,  under  the  nomenclature  of  "Lustra".  This  wor  ) 
"lustra"  means  one  of  two  things,  either  expiatory  sacrifices  c 
morasses.  Ezra  Pound  is  too  absolutely  degraded  to  offer  sacrifice 
much  less  expiatory  ones;  therefore  we  must  be  content  to  consid* 
the  book  a  collection  of  morasses,  quicksands. 

Bogs  the  poems  certainly  are.  There  is  an  enormous  chart 
about  some  of  them,  and  one  is  in  jeopardy  of  being  lured  to  trea 
out  upon  them,  and  only  when  the  hungry  mud  sucks  a  shoe  off  an 


The    Little    Review  57 

ne  gets  a  stocking  slimy,  realize  one's  delusion.  They  have  the  ap- 
earance  of  poetry;  the  lines  are  all  split  up;  and  now  and  again  there 
a  really  delightful  metaphor,  to  give  the  devil  his  due.  This  it  is 
liiih'has  induced  people  out  upon  them,  and  has  given  Ezra's 
)ricipting  influence  a  wide  scope.  As  a  rule  these  poems  are  not 
Kins;  beauty  is  never  flippant  ....  —  Leonard  Cline. 

I  Who   is   this   man   in   Detroit   who   thinks   he   can   limit   beauty? 

it's  a  sin  to  "make  beauty  flippant",  isn't  it  a  minor  sin  compared 
>  limiting  beauty?  Mr.  Cline  is  akin  to  all  that  brood  who  have  lines 
side  of  which  beauty  must  move  —  the  range  of  their  vision.    Beau- 

I  >r  them  must  be  pleasing,  pretty,  decorous,  obvious,  and  "clean". 
1 1  member  a  similar  criticism  in  another  Michigan  paper  some  time 
;(i      When  the  Chicago  Little  Theatre  Company  played  The  Medea 

'lie  of  its  cities  a  critic  wrote  :  "The  Little  Theatre  gave  a  beau- 
hil  performance  of  The  Medea,  if  tragedy  can  ever  be  called 
■aiuiful." — jh.] 

In  Ezra,  thus,  I  have  belatedly  discovered  a  creature  given 
tr  heart  and  soul  to  the  art  of  writing.  I  have  discovered  in  him, 
elatedly,  of  course,  a  decadent  after  my  own  fancy,  a  thin  little, 
^hiptuary  of  phrase,  but  a  voluptuary  none  the  less.  I  would  h0 
ul  more  sonority  to  his  rainbows  (I  refer,  gentlemen,  to  the  rain- 
)w  used  by  Demetrius  as  an  oboe  in  summoning  together  the  gods 
r     inference).     I  would  that  he,  Ezra,  were  a  bit  more  luscious  in 

([uancies,  more  lyric  in  his  outlinings.    But  given  moonlight  one 

il  be  reconciled  to  the  absence  of  the  moon. 

here  is  in  Pound,  as  he  stands  published  to-day,  a  gift  of  irony 

I  ;     olor  which,  wan  though  it  be,  is  to  be  treasured  like  a  full  goat- 

in   in  the  desert.     He  alone,  of  the  few  bards  with  whose  work  I 

M  acquainted,  preserves  an  exquisite  balance  in  the  current  of  his 

il   emotions.     Of  material  things  he  is  never  serious,  of  passions 

•ats  with  a  sharp  tongue  held  in  his  cheek.     Of  ideas,  thoughts, 

ations,  he  is  drolly  cynical,  even  when  they  are  the  product  of 

,vn  enfevered  fancy.  And  of  color,  wherever  he  finds  it,  he  is 
i<,Mcrly  rapturous.  Nothing  is  too  small  to  receive  the  salaam  of 
;  adjective.  Nothing  too  unimportant  to  receive  the  touch  of  his 
inminating  phrases."  —  Ben  Hecht,  in  The  Chicago  Daily  News. 

i^zra  Pound  is  the  bite  of. the  champagne.     It  is  not  the  best  part 
I  the  wine,  but  the  most  important  .  .  . 

Ife  is  the  translator  essentially  unfaithful.    His  active  intelligence 

beyond  mere  bookish  imitation.     When  he  brings  the  old  wine 


L 


58  The    Little    Re  view 

out  of  the  bottle,  the  atmosphere  in  which  he  lives,  his  quick  mind, 
naturally  biting  in  its  methods,  in  a  word,  the  ardent  quality  of  his 
whole  personality,  are  fused  in  the  old  wine,  and  make  this  witty, 
delicate,  often  sarcastic  effervescence.  The  wine  itself,  howevef,  al- 
most disowns  this  sparkle.  Pound  does  not  interfere  with  the  genius 
of  foreign  work;  but  whatever  intelligence  and  liberty  of  thought,  the 
destructive  spirit,  and  imagination  can  add  to  a  work  of  art,  that 
Pound  adds. 

If  the  name  of  Pound  comes  into  all  discussions  on  art  it  is  be- 
because  he  has,  to  an  unusual  degree,  certain  qualities,  and  that  at 
least  two  of  them  are  very  apparent  and  greatly  appreciated. 

He  is  free  and  without  rhetoric — no  one  more  so.  His  vision  is 
dir-ect;  he  does  not  use  the  image,  but  shows  the  things  themselves 
with  power.  This  is  indeed  a  quality  of  the  Imagistes.  His  inde 
pendence  comes  from  the  fact  that  he  has  dug  into  the  past  with  a 
keener  mind,  and  more  profoundly  than  is  necessary  for  ordinary  cul- 
ture. The  number  of  influences  he  has  passed  under  have  also  freed 
him,  and  he  has  made  his  departure  from  the  known  with  rare  au- 
dacity .... 

The  poet  is  a  sceptic  madly  in  love,  who  wants  in  spite  of  every- 
thing to  create  his  dream.  Up  to  now  Pound  has  beaten  out  a  path 
for  his  creations;  he  uproots  weeds  of  aesthetics  and  morals;  he  makes 
one  look  in  front,  not  to  the  side  ,or  through  a  veil  of  passive  accept- 
ance. Everywhere  his  poems  incite  man  to  exist,  to  profess  a  be- 
coming egotism,  without  which  there  can  be  no  real  altruism  .  .  .  One 
must  believe  in  one's  own  existence,  and  this  faith  begins  with  nega- 
tion.    One  must  be  capable  of  reacting  to  stimuli  for  a  morrrent,  as  a 


The  Eve  of  the  Millennium     An    Amazing    Divine    Re- 

-pjjg  velation   (not   Spiritualism) 

concerning  Christ's  Second 

Gleoh  Wealyan  Scripures       Coming.     World   War   and 

or  Chaos,   and    Millennium   to 

The     Word     of     the     Lord         ^°"°^;     ^'""^    Instalment, 

as  it  Came  to  Cleohia  Weal        ^5  cents.    Free  Circular. 

JULE  JERANON 

Care  of  Mrs.  Bonhard,  964  St.  Nicholas  Ave.,  N.  Y.  City 


The    Little    Review 


59 


real,  live  person,  even  in  face  of  as  much  of  one's  own  powers  as  are 
arrayed  against  one,  balanced  by  an  immediate  avowal: 

And  who  are  we,  who  know  that  last  intent, 
To  plague  tomorrow  with  a  testament  ! 

But  a  kind  of  disease  called  hope  cannot  be  cut  out  of  a  man's 
heart.  He  goes  on  believing  in  the  successive  moments.  It  is  great 
poetry,  the  intimate  drama  of  this  strugle,  to  go  on  believing  in  spite 
of  the  appearance  of  optimism.  The  groans,  the  virile  complaint, 
the  revolt  of  the  poet,  all  which  shows  his  emotion  —  that  is  poetry 
.  .  Pound  knows  very  well  what  awaits  him.  He  has  experience 
of  the  folly  of  the  Philistines  who  read  his  verse.  Real  pai  nis  born 
of  this  stupid  interpretation,  and  one  does  not  realize  how  deep  it  is 
unless  one  can  feel,  through  the  ejaculations  and  laughter,  what  has 
caused  these  wounds,  which  are  made  deeper  by  what  he  knows,  and 
what  he  has  lost.  —  Jean  de  Bosschere  in  The  Egoist. 


SIGN    OF    THE    FLYING    STAG 

PLAYS 

for  the 

LITTLE    THEATER 

We  carry  in  stock  the  published  plays 
of  the  Greenwich  Village  Theatre, 
the  Washington  Square  Players,  the 
Provincetown  Players,  etc. 

And  a  full  line  of  books  on  the 
New  Theatre. 

A  post  card  brings  our  drama  lists. 

EGMONT  H.  ARENS 

WASHINGTON  SQUARE  BOOK  SHOP 

17  West  8th  Street,  New  York 


[ 


THE  PAGAN 

A  magazine  that  is  bound  to  take  the 
place  of  the  fine  magazines  lately  given  up 
because 

It  publishes  every  printable  form  of  fine 
art, — stories,  plays,  poems  (original  and  trans- 
lated), drawings,  etchings,  etc. 

75  cents  a  copy  $^-30  a  year 

THE  PAGAN  PUBLISHING  COMPANY 

147  Center  Street 
New     York      City 


j  THE    QUILL  I 

I  A  Magazine  of  Greenwich  Village   .  | 

I  Announces   the   Publication   of   a    folio  g 

I  GREENWICH  VILLAGE   by  its  ARTISTS  | 

M  Fifteen  Sketches  and  Photographs  by  1 

I  HUGH  FERRISS,  MAUD  LANGTREE,  j 

I  FOREST  MANN  and  GLENN  O.COLEMAN  j 

I  andaMapoftheVillage.  | 

j  The  Cover  has  been  designed  by  HAROLD  TRUE.  j 

I  Two  Dollars  Postpaid  from  ARTHUR  H.   MOSS  | 

I  at  143  West  Fourth  Street,  New  York  City,  j 

iiitiiiiiiiiiii 


In    Greenwich    Village,    N  e  w    Yd  f  k 


SOLVE  YOUR  FOOD  PROBLEM 

BY  Eating  at  the  Strunsky  Restaurants 

Good  cooking — pleasant  envirnments — 

liberal  portions — moderate  prices. 


"THE  WASHINGTON 
SQUARE  RESTAURANT" 

19   West    Eight    Street. 

"THREE  STEPS  DOWN" 

19   West   Eight   Street. 

(Down  Stairs). 

Between   5th    &  6th   Avenue, 

Phone  Stuyvesant  1880 
Open  for  lunch  and  dinner. 


"THE   STUYVESANT 
SQUARE  RESTAURANT" 

201    Second   Ave. 

"THE    STUYVESANT 
CAFETERIA" 

201    Second   Avenue, 

(Down  Stairs). 

Between    12th    &    13th    Street. 

Phone   Stuyvesant  3379. 

Open    for    lunch,    dinner    and 

evenings. 


In  the  Webb  Van   Dam  you  will  see 

WEB 

Just  a  place  to  have  your  tea 

VAN 

There  you  are  taken  by  the  hand 
To  a  Wigwam  in  No  Man's  Land 

DAM 

There  you  have  a  nice  young  feller 

To  guide  you  down  to  the  cyclone  cellar 

1   Sheridan 

Crullers  with  cider  you'll  eat  and  drink 
Then  home  you'll  go  to  sit  and  think 

Square 

And  in  your  dreams  you'll  seem  to  be 

A  Greenwich  Villager  just  like  me. 

What    Is    Poetrv  ? 


A  PRIZE  OF  FIFTY  DOLLARS  is  offered  for  the 
best  and  most  beautiful  original  definition  in  poetry,  — 
of  poetry.  This  contest  has  been  inaugurated  by  The 
Poetry-Lovers  of  New  York  City  and  is  open  to  all.  The 
winning  Ms.  becomes  the  property  of  the  Poetry-Lovers 
and  publication  proceeds  will  be  donated  by  them  to  the 
work  of  the  Red  Cross  Ambulance  in  Italy,  the  country 
particularly  dear  to  poets  and  poetry-lovers.  The  judges 
will  be  Edwin  Markham,  George  E.  Woodberry,  Florence 
Wilkinson,  Ridgely  Torence,  Edith  Wynne  Matthison  and 
Robert  Frost.  The  jury  thus  represents  not  only  the 
fields  of  creative  poetry,  poetic  criticism  and  the  teaching 
of  poety,  but  also  the  art  of  the  spoken  word  in  poetry. 

The  conditions  are  as  follows  :  the  definition  is  re- 
stricted to  thirty-five  words,  all  words  counted,  and  may 
be  fewer  than  that  number.  Competitors  may  send  in 
more  than  one  definition.  Ms.  must  be  signed  by  a  nom- 
de-plume  only,  accompanied  by  the  name,  address  and 
nom-de-plume  of  the  writer  in  a  separate  sealed  envelope 
and  must  be  received  before  noon,    February   28,   by 

The  Poetry-Lovers, 

122  West  nth  Street, 

New  York  City. 

The  result  of  the  competition  will  be  made  known  on 
March  28. 


The    Little    Review 


63 


Your 
Chance 
To 
Help 


//  every  subscriber  mill  get  two  or 
three  new  subscribers  by  February 
10,  it  will  help  us  greatly  zvith  the 
important  numbers  to  come.  Send 
us  names  also  of  any  of  your  friends 
who  will  appreciate  sample  copies. 


THE  EGOIST 


This  journal  is  not  a  chatty  literary  review:  its  mis- 
sion is  not  to  divert  and  amuse:  it  is  not  written  for  tired 
and  depressed  people.  Its  aim  is  rather  to  secure  a  fit  audi- 
ence, and  to  render  available  to  that  audience  contemporary 
literary  work  bearing  the  stamp  of  originality  and  per- 
manance:  to  present  in  the  making  those  contemporary 
literary  efforts  which  ultimately  will  constitute  20th 
century  literature. 

The  philosophical  articles  which  The  Egoist  publishes, 
by  presenting  the  subject-matter  of  metaphysics  in  a  form 
which  admits  of  logical  treatment,  are  promising  a  new 
era  for  philosophy .  The  power  of  its  fictional  work  is 
investing  that  commonest  but  laxest  of  literary  forms — the 
novel  (as  written  in  English) — with  a  new  destiny  and 
a  new  meaning.  In  poetry,  its  pages  are  open  to  exper- 
iments which  are  transforming  the  whole  conception  of 
poetic  form,  while  among  its  writers  appear  leaders  in 
pioneering  methods  radically  affecting  the  allied  arts. 


Obviously  a  journal  of  interest  to  virile  readers  only. 
Such  should  write,  enclosing  subscription,  to 

THE  EGOIST 

23  ADELPHI  TERRACE  HOUSE.   ROBERT  STREET 
LONDON.  W.  C.  2. 

Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllll^^ 

PUBLISHED     MONTHLY 

Price,  fifteen  cents  a  number 

Yeraly  subscription,  one  dollar  sixty  cents 


CONTEMPORARY  VERSE 

Charles  Wharter  Stork,  Editor 

"Truth  when  'tis  beauty,  beauty  when  'tis  truth". 

William  Dean  Howelfs 

in  an  extended  criticism  of  American  magazines  of  poetry 
in  "Harper's  Magazine,"  devotes  most  of  his  article  to 
Contemporary  Verse,  mentioning  no  other  poetry  magazine  by 
name.    Of  this  magazine  he  says,  in  part: 

"One  periodical,  which  comes  from  Philadelphia,  is  wholly 
given  to  the  pub/ication  of  poetry  in  its  different  forms.  A 
copy  of  this  magazine,  'Contemporary  Verse,'  has  attracted  us 
by  the  variety  and  quality  of  its  contributions.  What  is  most 
remarkable  is  that  poems  are  all  good,  and  several  are  of  the 
highest  and  freshest  beauty.  One  of  the  poems  in  this  number 
— and  we  have  said  that  there  is  a  good  deal  else  that  is  good — 
would  be  enough  in  itself  to  justify  the  charming  enterprise. 

We  have  of  course  no  means  of  knowing  how  the  enter- 
prise has  prospered,  but  we  are  sure  it  ought  to  prosper  at 
fifteen  cents  a  copy,  and  if  it  probably  does  not  enrich  its 
proprietors  or  contributors  we  are  sure  it  serves  their  higher 
needs  better  than  the  more  miscellaneous  magazines,  which 
reserve  for  verse  such  ho/es  and  corners  of  space  as  their 
prose  leaves  unfilled." 


HERE  IS  WHAT  OTHER  CRITICS  SAY  ABOUT 
CONTEMPORARY    VERSE: 

"The    contents    are    of    very  "Slender  in  bulk — but  it  con- 
good  quality  indeed."  tains  good  poems." 
— Current  Opinion,  New  York  — New  Orleans,  Louisiana, 
"Each  contribution  is  a  gem."  Times-Picayune 
—  Sioux   City,  Iowa,  "  'Contemporary      Verse'      is 
Daily  Tribune  here,  and,  we  hope,  to  stay. 
"Has    in    it    finer    stuff    than  It  came  without  a  flourish — 
we've  seen  in  many  another  simply    printed    some    very 
more  pretentious  journal."  good    contributions.      That 
— T.  A.  Daly,  American   intellectuals  who 
Philadelphia  Evening  Ledger  are     bemoaning    the     deca- 
"All    the    contents    are   inter-  dence  of  poetry." 
estin."  — The   Rochester  Herald, 
—Chicago  Record-Herald  Rochester,  New  York 

"Its  poetry  is  admirably  selected It  would  be  difficult  to 

find   any   other   American  magazine   verse   more   notable   for 

originality  and  imagination " 

— The  Literary  Digest,  New  York 

Rates,  $1.50  a  year 
Address:  Contemporary  Verse,  Philadelphia 


The  Little  Revie^v 

Respecting  no  vested  interests,  no  publishers' 

interests,  no  aged  magazines  and  reviews 

nor  staffs  of  the  same. 

ANNOUNCEMENTS 

The  February  number  will  be  a  new  depar- 
ture in  American  magazine  making.  No  pre- 
liminary announcements  of  what  it  contains 
will  be  made.  It  will  be  ready  the  tenth  of 
February,  and  on  the  newstands  by  that  date. 

The  March  issue  will  open  with  the  first 
instalment  of  James  Joyce's  new  novel, 
"Ulysses".  It  will  have  some  further  Imaginary 
Letters  by  Wyndham  Lewis,  the  continuation 
of  Hueffer's  "Women  and  Men",  reviews  by 
Ezra  Pound,  special  notes  by  "jh",  etc.,  etc. 


If  you  have  read  the  announcements  on 
page  2  you  will  be  convinced  of  The  Little 
Review's  importance  during  19 18-19. 

It  is  still  possible  for  you  to  get  those 
twelve  numbers  for  $1.50.  After  February  10 
you  will  have  to  pay  $2.50  for  them. 

Any  one  sending  in  three  new  subscrip- 
tions (or  renewals)  may  have  a  subscription 
for  himself  free.  Any  one  sending  in  five 
new  subscriptions  (or  renewals)  will  be  given 
a  two-year  subscription  free. 

This  is  the  last  opportunity  to  avail 
yourself  of  our  special  offer. 


24  West  Sixteenth  Street,        New  York  City 


THE  LITTLE  REVl 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


t^./f//" 


"A  STUDY  OF  FRENCH  MODERN  POETS" 

by 
Ezra   Pound 


THE    FLYING    STAG   PLAYS 

FOR  THE  LITTLE  THEATRE 

THE  SANDBAR  QUEEN 

by  GEORGE  CRONYN 

The  best  one-act  plays  of  the  Washington  Square 
Players,  the  Provincetown  Players,  the  Greenwich 
Villa;ge  Players,  and  others,  will  be  included  in  this 
series.  In  preparation:  Plays  by  James  Oppenheim, 
Floyd  Dell,  Rita  Wellman,  Mary  Carolyn  Davies, 
etc.    Bound  in  Toyogami  Japan  parchment. 

To  be  published  monthly.  Three  dollars  a  year  (12 
copies).  Thirty-five  cents  each.  Subscriptions  or 
single  orders  may  be  sent  to 

The  Publisher 

EGMONT  H.  ARENS 

at  the 

WASHINGTON  SQUARE  BOOK  SHOP 

17  West  8th  Street  New  York  City. 


THE  BERLITZ  SCHOOL  OF  LANGUAGES 

Head  Office  —New  York,  28-30  West  34th  Street 
Brooklyn  218-220  Livingston  Street 

Washington,    Philadelphia,    Baltimore,    Boston,    Chicago,    Pittsburgli,    Detroit. 

Orange,    Paris,    London,    Petrograd,    Rome,    Madrid,    Lisbon,    Brussels, 

Geneva,   Havana,   Buenos  Aires,   Rio  Janeiro,  Montevideo,  Cairo, 

Algiers,    Christiania,    Amsterdam,    Copenhagen,    Etc. 

OVER   300   BRANCHES   IN   THE   LEADING   CITIES   of   THE   WORLD 

PUPILS    TRAVELINC    MAY    TRANSFER    THE    VALUE    OF    THEIR 
LESSONS   TO   ANY   OTHER   BERLITZ   SCHOOL 

SUPERIOR  NATIVE  TEACHERS 

By   the    Berlitz   Method   Students  learn   not  only   to  read  and  write,   but  also 
to    UNDERSTAND    and    to    SPEAK    the    foreign    languages. 

Terms  may  be  begun  at  any   time  —  Trial    Lesson  free 

Lessons  Privately  and  in  Classes,  Day 
and  Evenings^  at  School  or  Residence 

RECENT  AWARDS: 

Paris    Exposition,    1900,    Gold    Medals;    Lille    Exposition,    1902,    Grand    Prize: 

Zurich    Exposition,    1902,    Gold    Medal;    St.    Louis    Exposition,    1904, 

Grand   Prize;    Liege  Exposition,    1905,   Grand   Prize;   London 

Exposition,   1908,  Grand   Prize;    Brussels  1910,  Hors 

Concours;    Turin    1911,    Hors    Concours. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


FEBRUARY,  1918 

A  Study  of  Modern  French  Poets:  Esra  Pound 

Jules  Laforgue 

Tristan  Corbiere 

Arthur  Rimbaud 

Remy  de  Gourmont 

De  Regnier 

Emile  Verhaeren 

Viele-Griffin 

Stuart  Merrill 

Laurent  Tailhade 

Francis  Jammes 

Moreas 

Andre  Spire 

Vildrac 

Jules  Romains 
The  Chicago  Grand  Opera  Invades  New  York 

Margaret  Anderson 
A  Letter  jh 

Copyright,    1918,    by    Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,    Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign    Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  New  York 

Foreign  office: 

5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London   W.  8. 

25  cents  a  copy  $2.50  a  year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THE  EGOIST 


lllllllliKJIlllllil'llllllllllll 

This  journal  is  not  a  chatty  literary  review:  its  mis- 
sion is  not  to  divert  and  amuse:  it  is  not  written  for  tired 
and  depressed  people.  Its  aim  is  rather  to  secure  a  fit  audi- 
ence, and  to  render  available  to  that  audience  contemporary 
literary  work  bearing  the  stamp  of  originality  and  per- 
rnanance:  to  present  in  the  making  those  contemporary 
literary  efforts  which  ultimately  will  constitute  20th 
century  literature. 

The  philosophical  articles  which  The  Egoist  publishes, 
by  presenting  the  subject-matter  of  metaphysics  in  a  form 
which  admits  of  logical  treatment,  are  promising  a  new 
era  for  philosophy  .  The  power  of  its  fictional  work  is 
investing  that  commonest  but  laxest  of  literary  forms — the 
novel  (as  written  in  English) — with  a  new  destiny  and 
a  new  meaning.  In  poetry,  its  pages  are  open  to  exper- 
iments which  are  transforming  the  whole  conception  of 
poetic  form,  while  among  its  writers  appear  leaders  in 
pioneering  methods  radically  affecting  the  allied  arts. 

illlillllil|{!!llllllllll'l!!i!;iiil!!llllllll|{||l!llll!l!ll!lll|lll!ll!nillll!lill!lll!'!li;!l!!!liy^ 


Obviously  a  journal  of  interest  to  virile  readers  only. 
Such  should  write,  e)iclosing  subscription,  to 

THE  EGOIST 

23   ADELPHI  TERRACE  HOUSE.   ROBERT  STREET 
LONDON.  W.  C.  2. 

::i!;!l|li;illl!!;iiilllll!llll!lllllll!i;!l!lllll||||||l1l!l!lll!llll!lllllllllinii!!!P^ 

PUBLISHED     MONTHLY 

Price,  fifteen  cents  a  number 

Yearly  subscrijition.  one  dollar  sixty  cents 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

VOL.fV.  FEBRUARY,  1918  No.  10 


A    STUDY    IN    FRENCH    POETS 
Ezra    Pound 

THE  TIME  when  the  intellectual  affairs  of  America  could  be 
conducted  on  a  monolingual  basis  is  over.  It  has  been  irk- 
some for  long.  We  offer  no  apology  for  printing  most  of  this  num- 
ber in  French.  The  intellectual  life  of  London  is  dependent  on 
people  who  understand  this  language  about  as  well  as  their  own. 
America's  part  in  contemporary  culture  is  based  chiefly  upon  two 
men  familiar  with  Paris:  Whistler  and  Henry  James.  -  It  is  some- 
thing in  the  nature  of  a  national  disgrace  that  a  New  Zealand  paper, 
The  Triad,  should  be  more  alert  to,  and  have  better  regular  criticism 
of,  contemporary  French  publications  than  any  American  periodical 
has  yet  had. 

In  this  number  I  had  wished  to  give  but  a  brief  anthology  of 
French  poems,  interposing  no  comment  of  my  own  between  author 
and  reader;  confining  my  criticism  to  selection.  The  following 
letter  explains  why  that  plan  is  not  feasible. 

8,  St.  Martin's  Place,  W.  C. 
Londres,  le  ii' Septembre,  1917 
Cher  Ami, 

Je  viens  de  recevoir  la  reponse  de  Vallette.  Tout  d'abord,  la 
rectification  de  votre  adresse  est  faite;  et  voici  maintenant  I'import- 
ant.   Je  cite  Vallette: 

"La  question  reproduction  est  tres  claire.  Vous  savez 
qu'on  a  le  droit  de  citation.  Supposons  que  The  Little  Review 
publie  une  etude  sur  un  mouvement  litteraire:  elle  aura  le  droit 
de  citer  les  poetes  qu'elle  etudie.  La  jurisprudence  n'est  pas 
tres  siire  en  ce  qui  concerne  I'etendue  des  citations.  Mais  si 
la  revue  reproductrice  publie  des  textes  sans  critique,  avec  de 
simples  chapeaux  ou  notes,  ou  seulement  quelques  explications 
pour  I'hitelligence  des  textes,  il  lui  faut  I'autorisation  du  ou  des 
proprietaires  des  textes. 


The     Little     Review 


"En  ce  qui  me  concerne.  en  tant  qu'  editeurs,  je  donne 
I'autorisation.  Mais  cela  ne  suffit  pas.  II  faut  a  M.  Ezra 
Pound  celle  des  auteurs  on  de  leurs  ayants-droit.  II  aura 
done  a  adrcsser  au  Mcrcure  (care  of)  des  demandes  aux 
auteurs  de  chez  nous  qu'il  desire  reproduire:  nous  transmettrons 
les  lettres,  mais  ca  n'ira  pas  trcs  vite:  Cros  est  en  Allemagne. 
Arcos  est  en  Suisse,  Elskamp  est  en  Hollande,  la  famille  de  Des- 
pax  est  je  ne  sais  ou,  etc.,  etc." 

V'ous  voyez  que  ca  semble  assez  complique.  Je  crois  que  le  plus 
simple  serait  d'entrelarder,  si  j'ose  dire,  les  citations  avec  quelques 
lignes  de  commentaires.  Vous  jugerez  de  ce  qui  conviendra  le 
mieux. 

Bien  cordialement  votre, 

Henry  D.  Davray. 

This  note  is  characteristic  of  the  generous  spirit  of  the  Mercure 
and  I  wish  to  express  my  thanks  to  Henry  Davray  and  to  the  editor, 
A.  Vallette,  for  their  readiness  to  assist  us.  The  formalities,  with 
which  we  would  both  wilHngy  dispense,  make  it  necessary  to  choose 
between  the  present  form  and  long,  indefinite  delay. 

PREFACE 

We  shall  in  future  wish  to  print  criticism  of  current  French  lit- 
erature; there  must  be  a  minimum  of  knowledge  presupposable  in 
the  reader.  Hence  the  Little  Review's  immediate  necessity  to  print 
some  such  number  as  the  present. 

Certain  delitate  wines  will  not  travel;  they  are  not  always  the 
best  wines.  Foreign  criticism  may  sometimes  correct  the  criticism 
du  cru.  I  do  not  pretend  to  give  the  reader  a  summary  of  contem- 
porary French  opinion,  even  were  such  a  summary  of  opinion  avail- 
able. Certain  French  poets  have  qualities  strong  enough  to  be 
perceptible  to  me,  that  is,  to  at  least  one  alien  reader. 

I  have  written  long  since  that  certain  things  are  translatable 
from  one  language  to  another,  i.  e.  that,  generally  speaking,  a  man's 
tale  or  his  image  will  'translate",  his  music  will,  practically,  never 
translate.  In  the  same  way,  if  his  work  be  taken  abroad  in  the 
original  tongue,  certain  properties  seem  to  become  less  apparent,  or 
less  important.  It  is  impossible  for  me  to  take  much  interest  in  the 
problem  of  the  mute  "e"  in  French  verse;   fancy  styles,  questions 


T  h  e    Li  t  tl  e    Review  5 

of  local  "taste"  lose  importance.  Even  though  I  know  the  over- 
whelming importance  of  technique,  technicalities  in  a  foreign 
tongue  can  not  have  for  me  the  importance  they  have  to  a  man 
writing  in  that  tongue.  Or,  if  I  may  put  it  another  way,  almost  the 
only  technique  perceptible  to  a  foreigner  is  the  technique  which 
consists  in  the  artist's  presenting  his  content  as  free  as  possible  from 
the  clutteration  of  dead  technicalities,  fustian  a  la  Louis  XV;  and 
from  timidities  of  workmanship.  And  this  is  perhaps  the  only 
technique  that  ever  matters,  the  only  maestria. 

Five  years  ago  I  did  a  series  of  studies  of  French  Poetry  in 
The  New  Age,  covering  almost  the  same  ground  as  this  essay,  giving 
more  space  proportionally  to  Remains  and  Vildrac;  having  gone 
back  over  the  subject,  pawed  over  some  sixty  more  volumes  of 
contemporary  poetry  in  the  British  Museum,  I  am  convinced  that 
mediocre  poetry  is  the  same  everywhere;  there  is  not  the  slightest 
need  to  import  it;  we  search  foreign  tongues  for  maestria,  and  for 
discoveries  not  yet  revealed  in  the  home  product.  The  foreign 
critic  must  have  some  sense  of  proportion,  he  must  know  a  reason- 
able amount  of  the  bad  poetry  of  the  nation  he  studies. 

He  will  never  be  as  sensitive  to  fine  shades  of  language  as  the 
native;  he  has  however  a  chance  of  being  less  bound,  less  allied  to 
some  group  of  writers.  In  my  own  case  it  would  be  politic  to  praise 
as  many  living  Frenchmen  as  possible,  and  thereby  to  increase  the 
number  of  my  chances  for  congenial  acquaintance  on  my  next  trip 
to  Paris.  I  might  also  want  to  have  a  large  number  of  current 
French  books  sent  to  me  to  review. 

But  these  are  rather  broad  and  general  temptations;  they  can 
scarcely  lead  me  to  praise  one  man  instead  of  another. 

The  writings  of  critics  who  merely  try  to  gauge  current  opinion, 
who  try  to  say  the  thing  advisable  at  the  moment,  are  and  have 
always  been,  and  will  be  always  dung.  In  defense  of  my  throwing 
over  current  French  opinion  I  urge  that  foreign  opinion  has  at 
times  been  a  corrective.  England  has  never  accepted  the  continen- 
tal opinion  of  Bryon.  the  right  estimate  lies  perhaps  between  the  two. 
Heine  is  better  read  outside  Germany  than  within.  The  continent 
has  never  accepted  the  idiotic  British  adulation  of  Milton,  on  the 
other  hand  the  idiotic  neglect  of  Landor  has  never  been  rectified 
by  the  continent. 

Foreign  criticsm,  if  honest,  can  never  be  quite  the  same  as 
home  criticism;  it  may  be  better  or  worse;  or  it  may  have  almost 


The    Little    Review 


the  same  value  as  the  criticism  of  a  different  decade  or  century. 
At  least  it  has  some  chance  of  escaping  whims  and  stampedes  of 
opinion. 

2 

I  can  not  in  this  sketch  "aim  at  completeness".  I  believe  in  a 
general  way  that  the  American  reader  has  heard  of  Baudelaire  and 
Verlaine  and  Mallarme;  that  Mallarme,  perhaps  unread,  is  apt  to 
be  slightly  overestimated;  that  Gautier's  reputation,  despite  its 
greatness,  is  not  yet  as  great  as  it  should  be.  At  any  rate  he 
seems  to  me  the  back  bone  of  French  nineteenth  century  poetry. 

After  a  man  has  lived  a  reasonable  time  with  the  two  volumes  of 
Gautier's  poetry,  he  might  pleasantly  venture  upon  the  authors 
whom  I  indicate  in  this  essay;  and  he  might  have,  I  think,  a  fair 
chance  of  seeing  them  in  proper  perspective.  I  omit  nebulous  mushi- 
fiers,  because  I  think  their  work  bad;  I  omit  the  Parnassiens,  Sa- 
main  and  Heredia,  firstly  because  their  work  seems  to  me  to  show 
little  that  was  not  already  implicit  in  Gautier;  secondly  because 
America  has  had  enough  Parnassianism  —  perhaps  second  rate, 
but  still  enough.  (As  an  undergraduate,  the  verses  of  La  Comtesse 
de  Noailles  in  the  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes,  and  those  of  Vance 
Cheyney  in  The  Atantic  gave  me  an  almost  identical  plea.sure.) 
The  above'  must  not  be  mistaken  to  mean  that  I  consider  all  the 
poems  here  to  be  quoted  better  than  Samain's  "Mon  ame  est  une 
infante  .  .  .  .",  or  his  '"Cleopatre". 

I  aim  at  a  sort  of  qualitative  analysis.  If  the  reader  familiar- 
izes himself  with  the  work  of  Gautier,  Baudelaire,  Verlaine,  Mallarme 
Samain,  Heredia.  and  of  the  authors  I  quote  here,  I  think  he  will 
have  a  pretty  fair  idea  of  the  sort  of  poetry  that  has  been  written  in 
France  during  the  last  half  century,  or  at  least  the  last  forty  years, 
and,  for  what  my  opinion  is  worth,  he  will  know  most  of  the  best. — 
and  a  certain  amount  of  the  half-good.  He  may  also  purchase  Van 
Bever  and  Leautaud's  anthology  and  find  samples  of  some  forty  or 
fifty  more  poets. 

THE     GIST 

After  Gautier.  France  produced,  as  nearly  as  I  can  understand, 
three  chief  and  admirable  poets:  Tristan  Corbiere,  perhaps  the 
most  poignant  writer  since  Villon;  Rimbaud,  a  vivid  and  indubitable 
genius;    and  Laforgue,  —  a  slighter,  but   in  some  ways  a  finer 


The     Little     Review 


"artist,"  than  either  of  the  others.  I  don't  mean  that  he  "writes 
better"  than  Rimbaud;  and  Eliot  has  pointed  out  the  wrongness  of 
Symons's  phrase  "Laforgue  the  eternal  adult.  Rimbaud  the  eternal 
child".  I  wrote  five  years  ago  that  some  of  Rimbaud's  effects 
seemed  to  come  as  the  beauty  of  certain  silver  crystals  produced 
by  a  chemical  means  the  name  of  which  I  have  since  forgotten; 
Laforgue  always  knows  what  he  is  at;  Rimbaud,  the  "genius"  in  the 
narrowest  and  deepest  sense  of  the  term,  the  "most  modern",  seems, 
almost  without  knowing  it,  to  hit  on  the  various  ways  in  which  the 
best  writers  were  to  follow  him.  slowly.  There  is  no  use  gassing 
about  these  differences;  the  reader  can  see  the  thing  itself  in  the 
poems.  In  another  stumbling  formulation  I  might  say  "Laforgue 
is  the  last  word;  he.  out  of  infinite  knowledge  of  all  the  ways  of 
saying  a  thing,  finds  the  right  one.  Rimbaud,  when  right,  does  the 
thing  right  because  he  simply  can't  be  bothered  to  do  it  anyhow 
else. 

JULES    LAFORGUE 

{i86o-'87) 

I  begin  with  Laforgue  because  he  is,  in  a  way,  the  end  of  a 
period;  he  summed  up  and  summarized  and  dismissed  nineteenth- 
century  French  literature,  its  foibles  and  fashions,  as  Flaubert  in 
Bouvard  and  PecucJiet  summed  up  nineteenth-century  general  ci- 
vilization. He.  Laforgnje,  satirized  inimitably  Flaubert's  heavy 
"Salammbo"  manner.  But  he  manages  to  be  more  than  a  critic, 
for  in  the  process  of  this  ironic  summary  he  conveys  himself,  il 
raconte  lui  mime  en  racontant  son  age  et  ses  moeurs,  he  conveys 
the  subtle  moods  and  delicate  passion  of  an  exquisite  and  rare  per- 
sonality: "point  ce  'gaillard-la'  ni  le  Superbe  ....  mais  au  fond 
distinguee  et  franche  comme  une  herbe".  Or,  knowing  he  had  not 
long  to  live  : 

Oh!     laissez-moi  seulement  reprendre  haleine, 
Et  vous  aurez  un  livre  enfin  de  bonne  foi. 

En  attendant,  ayez  pitie  de  ma  misere  ! 
Que  je  vous  sois  a  tous  un  etre  bienvenu! 
Et  que  je  sois  absous  pour  mon  ame  sincere, 
Comme  le  fut  Phryne  pour  son  sincere  nu. 


8  The     Little     Review 


Laforgue  is  one  of  the  poets  whom  it  is  practically  imp)0ssiblc 
to  "select"  .  Almost  any  other  six  poems  would  be  quite  as  "repre- 
sentative" as  the  six  I  am  quoting. 

Pierrots 

{On  a  des  principes) 

Elle  disait,  de  son  air  vain  fondamental: 

"Je  t'aime  pour  toi  seul  !"  —  Oh!  la,  la,  grele  histoire; 

Oui,  comme  I'art  !     Du  calme,  6  salaire  illusoire 

Du  capitaliste  Ideal  ! 
Edle  faisait :     "J'attends,  me  voici,  je  sais  pas"  .  .  . 
Le  regard  pris  de  ces  larges  candeurs  des  lunes  ; 
—  Oh!  la,  la,  ce  n'est  pas  peut-etre  pour  des  prunes, 

Qu'on  a  fait  ses  classes  ici-bas  ? 
Mais  voici  qu'un  beau  soir,  infortunee  a  point, 
Elle  meurt  !  —  Oh  !     la,  la;  bon.  changement  de  theme  ! 
On  sait  que  tu  dois  ressusciter  le  troisieme 

Jour,  sinon  en  personne,  du  moins 
Dans  I'odeur,  les  verdures,  les  eaux  des  beaux  mois  !x 
Et  tu  iras,  levant  encore  bien  plus  de  dupes 
Vers  le  Zaimph  de  la  Joconde,  vers  la  jupe  ! 

II  se  pourra  meme  que  j'en  sois. 

Pierrots 
III. 

Comme  ils  vont  molester,  la  nuit, 
Au  profond  des  pares,  les  statues, 
Mais  n'offrant  qu'au  moins  devctues 
Leur  bras  et  tout  ce  qui  s'ensuit. 

En  tete  a  tete  avec  la  femme 
Ils  ont  toujours  I'air  d'etre  un  tiers , 
Confondent  demain  avec  hier, 
Et  demandcnt  Rien  avec  ame  ! 

Jurent  "je  t'aime"  I'air  la-bas, 
D'une  voii  sans  timbre,  en  extase, 


The    Little    Review 


Et  concluent  aux  plus  folles  phrases 
Par  des  :  "Mon  Dieu,  n'insistons  pas?" 

Jusqu'a  ce  qu'ivre^  Elle  s'oublie, 
Prise  d'on  ne  sait  quel  besoin 
De  lune  ?     dans  leurs  bras,  fort  loin 
Des  convenances  etablies. 


Complainte    des    consolations 

Quia  voluit  consolari 

Ses  yeux  ne  me  voient  pas,  son  corps  serait  jaloux  ; 
Elle  m'a  dit:  "monsieur  ..."    en  m'enteiTant  d'un  geste; 
Elle  est  Tout,  I'univers  moderne  et  le  celeste. 
Soit,  draguons  done  Paris,  et  ravitaillons-nous , 
Tant  bien  que  mal,  du  reste. 

Les  Landes  sans  espoir  de  ses  regards  brules, 
Semblaient  parfois  des  paons  prets  a  mettre  a  la  voile  .  .  . 
Sans  chercher  a  me  consoler  vers  les  etoiles , 
Ah !   Je  trouverai  bien  deux  yeux  aussi  sans  cles, 
Au  Louvre,   en  quelque  toile  ! 

Oh  !    qu'incultes,  ses  airs,  revant  dans  la  prison 
D'un  cant  sur  le  qui-vive  au  travers  de  nos  hontes  ! 
Mais,  en  m'appliquant  bien,  moi  dont  la  foi  demonte 
Les  jours,  les  ciels,  les  nuits,  sans  les  quatre  saisons 
Je  trouverai  men  compte. 

Sa  bouche  !  a  moi,  ce  pli  pudiquement  martyr 
Oil  s'aigrissent  des  nostalgies  de  nostalgies  ! 
Eh  bien,  j'irai  parfois,  tres  sincere  vigie, 
Du  haut  de  Notre-Dame  aider  I'aube,  au  sortir, 
De  passables  orgies. 

Mais,  Tout  va  la  reprendre  !  —  Alors  Tout  m'en  absout. 
Mais,  Elle  est  ton  bonheur!  —  Non!  je  suis,  trop  immense, 
Trop  chose.     Comment  done  !  mais  ma  seule  presence 
Ici-bas,  vraie  a  s'y  mirer,  est  I'air,  de  Tout: 
De  la  Femme  au  Silence. 


10  The     Little    Review 


Locutions  des   Pierrots 
VI. 

Je  te  vas  dire:  moi,  quand  j'aime, 

C'est  d'un  coeur,  au  fond  sans  apprets, 

Mais  dignement  elabore 

Dans  nos  plus  singuliers  problemes.  ^ 

Ainsi,  pour  mes  moeurs  et  mon  art, 
C'est  la  periode  vedique 
Qui  seule  a  bon  droit  revendique 
Ce  que  j'en  "'attelle  a  ton  char." 

Comme  c'est  notre  Bible  hindoue 
Que,  tiens,  m'amene  a  caresser, 
Avec  ces  yeux  de  cetace, 
Ainsi,  bien  sans  but,  ta  joue. 

I  am  well  aware  that  this  sort  of  thing  will  drive  most  of  our 
bull-moose  readers  to  the  perilous  borders  of  apoplexy.  It  may  give 
pleasure  to  those  who  believe  that  man  is  incomplete  without  a  cer- 
tain amount  of  mentality.  Laforgue  is  an  angel  whom  our  modern 
poetic  Jacob  must  struggle  with  .... 


Complainte  des  Printemps 

Permettez,  6  sirene, 
Voici  clue  votre  haleine 
Embaume  la  verveine; 
C'est  1 'printemps  qui  s'amene! 

—  Ce  systeme,  en  effet,  ramene  le  printemps, 
Avec  son  impudent  cortege  d'excitants. 

Otez  done  ces  mitaines  ; 
Et  n'ayez,  inhumaine, 
Que  mes  soupirs  pour  traine: 
Ous'qu'il  y  a  de  la  gene  .  .  . 


I 


The    Little    Review  ii 

—  Ah!    yeux  bleus  meditant  sur  I'ennui  de  leur  art! 
Et  vous,  jeunes  divins,  aux  soirs  cms  de  hasard! 

Du  geant  a  la  naine, 
Vois,  tout  bon  sire  entraine 
Quelque  contemporaine, 
Prendre  I'air,  par  hygiene  .  .  . 

—  Mais  vous  saignez  ainsi  pour  Tamour  de  Texil! 
Pour  Tamour  de  TAmour!     D'aileurs,  ainsi  soit-il  ... 

T'ai-je  fait  de  la  peine? 
Oh!    viens  vers  les  fontaines 
Ou  tournent  les  phalenes 
Des  Nuits  Elys^ennes! 

—  Pimbeche  aux  yeux  vaincus,  bellatre  aux  beaux  j arrets. 
Donnez  votre  fumier  a  la  fleur  du  Regret. 

Voila  que  son  haleine 
N'embaum'  plus  la  verveine! 
Drole  de  phenomene  .  .  . 
Hein,  a  I'annee  prochaine? 

—  Vierges  d'hier,  ce  soir  traineuses  de  foetus, 
A  genoux!     voici  I'heure  ou  se  plaint  I'Angelus. 

Nous  n'irons  plus  au  bois, 
Les  pins  sont  eternels, 
Les  cors  ont  des  appels!  .  .  . 
Neiges  des  pales  mois, 
Vous  serez  mon  missel! 
—  Jusqu'au  jour  de  degel. 

Complainte    des    Pianos 

Qu'on  entend  dans  les  Qttartiers  AisSs 

Menez  Tame  que  les  Lettres  onit  bien  nourrie, 
Les  pianos,  les  pianos,  dans  les  quartiers  aises! 


12  The     Little     Review 


Premiers  soirs,  sans  pardessus,  chaste  flanerie, 
Aux  complaintes  des  nerfs  incompris  ou  brises. 

Ces  enfants,  a  quoi  revent-elles, 
Dans  les  ennuis  des  ritournelles? 

—  "Preaux  des  soirs  , 
Christs  des  dortoirs! 

"Tu  t'en  vas  et  tu  nous  laisses, 
Tu  nous  laiss's  et  tu  t'en  vas, 
Defaire  et  refaire  ses  tresses, 
Broder  d'eternels  canevas." 

Jolie  ou  vague?     triste  ou  sage?     encore  pure? 

0  jours,  tout  m'est  egal?  ou,  monde,  moi  je  veux? 

Et  si  vierge,  du  moins,  de  la  bonne  blessure, 

Sachant  quels  gras  couchants  ont  les  plus  blancs  aveux? 

Mon  Dieu,  a  quoi  done  re  vent-elles  ? 
A  des  Roland,  a  des  dentelles? 

—  "Coeurs  en  prison. 
Lentes  saisons! 

"Tu  t'en  vas  et  tu  nous  quittes, 
Tu  nous  quitt's  et  tu  t'en  vas! 
Convents  gris,  choeurs  de  Sulamites, 
Sur  nos  seins  nuls  croisons  nos  bras." 

Fatales  cles  de  I'etre  un  beau  jour  apparues; 
Psitt!    aux  heredites  en  ponctuels  ferments, 
Dans  le  bal  incessant  de  nos  etranges  rues; 
Ah!  pensionnats,  theatres,  jouraux,  romans! 

Allez,   steriles  ritournelles, 
La  vie  est  vraie  et  criminelle. 

—  "Rideaux  tires. 
Peut-on  entrer? 


The    Little    Review  13 

"Tu  t'en  vas  et  tu  nous  laisses, 
Tu  nous  laiss's  et  tu  t'en  vas, 
La  source  des  frais  rosiers  baisse, 
Vraiment!     Et  lui  qui  ne  vient  pas  ..." 

II  viendra!     Vous  serez  les  pauvres  coeurs  en  faute, 
Fiances  au  remords  comme  aux  essais  sans  fond, 
Et  les  suffisants  coeurs  cossus,  n'ayant  d'autre  hote 
Qu'un  train-train  pavoise  d'estime  et  de  chiffons 

Mourir?     peut-etre  brodent-elles, 
Pour  un  oncle  a  dot,  des  bretelles? 

— "  Jamais!     Jamais! 
Si  tu  savais! 

Tu  t'en  vas  et  tu  nous  quittes, 
Tu  nous  quitt's  et  tu  t'en  vas, 
Mais  tu  nous  reviendras  bien  vite 
Guerir  mon  beau  mal,  n'est-ce  pas?" 

Et  c'est  vrai!     I'Ideal  les  fait  divaguer  toutes; 
Vigne  boheme,  meme  en  ces  quartiers  aises. 
La  vie  est  la;  le  pur  flacon  des  vives  gouttes 
Sera,  comme  il  convient,  d'eau  propre  baptise. 

Aussi,  bientot,  se  joueront-elles 
De  plus  exactes  ritournelles. 

*' —  Seul  oreiller! 
Mur  familier! 

"Tu  t'en  vas  et  tu  nous  laisses, 
Tu  nous  laiss's  et  tu  t'en  vas, 
Que  ne  suis-je  morte  a  la  messel 
0  mois,  6  linges,  6  repas!" 


14  T  he     Lit  tl  e    Review 


i  TRISTAN    CORBIERE 

{1841-1S75) 

Corbie  re  seems  to  me  the  greatest  poet  of  the  period.  'iLa 
Rapsode  Foraine  et  le  Pardon  de  Sainte  Anne"  is,  to  my  mind, 
beyond  all  comment.  He  first  published  in  '73,  remained  practically 
unkno\Mi  until  Verlaine's  essay  in  '84,  and  was  hardly  known  to 
the  "public"  until  the  Messein  edition  of  his  work  in  '91. 

La    Rapsode    Foraine 
et    le    pardon    de    Sainte-Anne 

La  Palud,  27  A  out,  jour  du  Pardon. 

;  ^...;  Benite  est  1 'infertile  plage 

Oil,  conune  la  mer,   tout  est  nud. 
,  ._  Sainte  est  la  chapelle  sauvage 

r^^  De  Sainte-Anne-de-la-Palud   .   .   . 

;  De  la  Bonne  Femme  Sainte  Anne,  * 

Grand'tante  du  petit  Jesus, 
En  bois  pourri  dans  sa  soutane 
Riche  .  .  .  plus  riche  que  Cresus! 

Contre  elle  la  petite  Vierge, 
Fuseau   frele,   attend   VAngelus; 
Au  coin,  Joseph,  tenant  son  cierge, 
Niche,  en  saint  qu'on  ne  fete  plus  .  .  .  ' 

C'est  le  Pardon.  —  Liesse  et  mysteres  — 

Deja  rherbe  rase  a  des  pous  .  .  . 

—  Saifite  Anne,  Onguent  des  belles-meres! 

Consolation  des  rpoux  !  .  .  . 

Des  paroisses  environnantes: 

De  Plougastel  et  Loc-Tudy. 

lis  viennent  tous  planter  leurs  tentes. 

Trois  nuits,  trois  jours,  —  jusqu'au  lundi. 


The    Little    Review  15 


Trois  jours,  trois  nuits,  la  palud  grogne, 
Selon  I'antique  rituel, 

—  Choeur  seraphique  et  chant  d'ivrogne 
Le  Cantique  spirituel. 

Mere  taillee  a  coups  de  hache. 
Tout  coeur  de  chine  dur  et  bon; 
Sous  I'or  de  sa  robe  se  cache 
Lame  en  piece  dhin  franc  Breton  ! 

—  Vieille  verte  a  la  face  usee 
Comme  la  picrre  du   torrent. 
Par  des  larmes  d' amour  creusee, 
Sechee  avec  des  pleurs  de  sang  .  .  . 

—  Tot,  dont  la  mamelle  tarie 
S'est  refait,  pour  avoir  porte 
La   Virginite   de   Marie, 

Une  male  virginite  ! 

—  Servanfe-maitresse  altiere, 
Trcs  haute  d^evant  le   Tres-Haut; 
An  pauvre  monde,  pas  fiere, 
Dame  pleine  de   comme-il-jaut  ! 

—  Baton  des  aveugles  !     Bequille 
Des  vieilles  !     Bras  des  nouveau-nes  ! 
Mere  de  madame  ta   fille  ! 

Parente  des  abandonnes  ! 

—  0  Fleur  de  la  pucelle  neuve  ! 
Fruit  de  I'epouse  au  sein  grossi  ! 
Reposoir  de  la  jemme  veuve... 
Et  du  veuf  Dame-de-merci ! 

—  Arche  de  Joachim  !   A'ieule  ! 
Medaille  de  cuivre  efface  ! 

Gui  sacre!     Trefle  quatre-jeuille ! 
Mont  d'Horeb  !     Souche  de  Jesse  I 


i6  The    Little    Review 


—  0  toi  qui  recouvrais  la  cendre, 
Qui  jilais  comme  on  fait  chcz  nous^ 
Quand  le  so'r  venait  a  descendre. 
Tenant  /'Enfant  sur  tes  genoux; 

Toi  qui  jus  la,  seule,  pour  faire 
Son  maillot  a  Bet/deem, 
Et  la.  pour  coudre  son  suaire 
Douloureux,   a  Jerusalem  ! ... 

Des  croix  projondcs  sont  tes  rides, 
Tes  cheveux  sont  blancs  comme  fils  .  .  . 

—  Preserve  des  regards  arides 
Le  berceaii  de  nos  pctits-fds  .  .  . 

Fais  venir  et  conserve  en  joie 

Ceux  a  naitre  et  ccux  qui  sont  nes,  .; 

Et  verse,  sans  que  Dieii  te  voie,  e- 

Veau  de  tes  yeux  sur  Ics  damnes  !  % 

Re pr ends  dans  leur  chemise  blanche 
Les  petits  qui  sont  en  langueur... 
Rappelle  a  Veternel  Dimanche 
Les  vieux  qui  trainent  en  longueur. 

—  Dragon-gardicn  de  la  Vierge, 
Garde  la  creche  sous  ton  oeil. 
Que,  pres  de  toi,  Joseph-concierge 
Garde  la  proprete  du  seuil ! 

Prends  pitie  de  la  fille-mcre, 
Du  petit  au  bord  du  chemin  .  .  . 
Si  quelqu'im  leur  jetfe  la  pierre. 
Que  la  pierre  sc  change  en  pain  ! 

—  Dame  bonne  en  mer  et  sur  terre, 
Montre-nous  le  del  et  le  port, 
Dans  la  tempete  on  dans  la  guerre... 
O  Fanal  de  la  bonne  mort  I 


The    Little    Review  17 

Humble  :    a  tes  pieds  n'as  point  d'etoile. 
Humble  .  .  .  et  brave  pour  proteger  ! 
Dans  la  nue  apparatt  ton  voile, 
Pale  aureole  du  danger. 

—  Aux  perdus  dont  la  vie  est  grise, 

( —  Sauj  respect  —  perdus  de  boisson) 
Montr e  le  clocher  de  Veglise 
Et  le  cJiemin  de  la  maison. 

Prete  ta  douce  et  chaste  jlamme 
Aux  Chretiens  qui  sont  ici... 
Ton  remede  de  bonne  jemme 
Pour  tes  betes-a-corne  aussi  ! 

Montre  a  nos  jemmes  et  servantes 
Uouvrage  et  la  jecondite... 

—  Le  bonjour  aux  dmes  parentes 
Qui  sont  bien  dans  I'eternite  ! 

—  Nous  mettrons  tin  cordon  de  cire, 
De  cire-vierge  jaune  autour 

De  ta  chapelle  et  ferons  dire 

Ta  messe  basse  au  point  du  jour. 

Preserve  notre  cheminee 

Des  sorts  et  du  monde  malin  ... 

A  Paques  te  sera  donnee 

Une  quenouille  avec  du  lin. 

Si  nos  corps  sont  puants  sur  terre, 
Ta  grace  est  un  bain  de  sante; 
Repands  sur  nous,  au  cimetiere, 
Ta  bonne  odeur  de  saintete. 

—  A   Van  prochain  !  —  Void  ton  cierge  : 
{Cest  deux  livres  qii'il  a  coute) 

.  .  .  Respects  a  Madame  la  Vierge , 
Sans  oubier  la  Trinite. 


i8  The     Little     Review 

* 

.  .  .  Et  les  fideles,  en  chemise , 
Sairife  Anne,  aycz  pitic  de  nous  ! 
Font  trois  fois  Ic  tour  de  I'eglise 
En  se  trainant  siir  leurs  i^enoux. 

Et  boivent  I'eau  miraculeuse 

Ou  les  Job  teigneux  ont  lavt- 

Leur  nudite  contagieuse  .-.. 

Allez:  la  Foi  I'oiis  a  sauvc  !  *  j 

C'est  la  que  tiennent  leurs  ccnacles 
Les  pauvres,  freres  de  Jesus  . 
—  Ce  n'est  pas  la  cour  des  miracles, 
Les  trous  sont  vrais:   Vide  hit  us  ! 

Sont-ils  pas  divins  sur  leurs  claires 

Qu 'aureole  un  nimbe  vermeil 

Ces  proprietaires  dc  plaies,  : 

Rubis  vivants  sous  le  soleil  !  .  .  .  -it 

% 

En  aboyant,  un  rachitique  s      "^i 

Secoue  un  moignon  desosse,  5 

Coudoyant  un  epileptique  h 

Qui  travaillc  dans  un  fosse.  '        1 

La,  ce  tronc  d'homme  oil  croit  I'ulcere, 

Contre  uii  tronc  d'arbrc  ou  croit  le  gui.  ^ 

Ici,  c'est  la  fille  et  la  mere  -^ 

Dansant   la   danse   de   Saint-Guy.  ^ 


Cet  autre  pare  le  cautere  |' 

De  son  petit  infant  malsain  :  jf 

—  L'enfant  se  doit  a  son  vieux  pere  ...  * 

—  Et  le  chancre  est   un   g,igne-i)ain  !  r 

La.  c'est  Tidiot  de  naissance, 

Un  visit e  par  Gabriel, 

Dans  I'extcise  de  I'innoccnce  ... 

—  L'innocent  est  (tout)  pres  du  ciel!  — 


The    Little    Review  19 


—  Tiens,  passant,  regarde:   tout  passe. 
L'oeil  de  'idiot  est  reste. 

Car  11  est  en  etat  de  grace  ... 

—  Et  la  Grace  est  I'Eternite  !  — 

Parmi  les  autres,  apres  vepre, 
Qui  sont  d'eau  benite  arroses, 
Un  cadavre,  vivant  de  lepre,. 
Fleurit,  souvenir  des  croises  .  .  . 

Puis  tous  ceux  que  les  Rois  de  France 
Guerissaient  d'un  toucher  de  doigts  .  .  . 

—  Mais  la  France  n'a  plus  de  Rois, 
Et  leur  dieu  suspend  sa  clemence. 


Une  forme  humaine  qui  beugle 
Centre  le  calvaire  se  tient; 
C'est  comme  un  moitie  d'aveugle: 
Elle  est  borgne  et  n'a  pas  de  chien  .  .  . 

C'est  une  rapsode  foraine 
Qui   donne  aux  gens  pour  un  Hard 
L'  Istoyre  de  la  Magdalayne, 
Du  Jtiij  Errant  ou  A^Abaylar. 

Elle  hale  comme  une  plainte, 
Comme  une  plainte  de  la  faim, 
Et,  longne  comme  un  jour  sans  pain, 
Lamentablement,  sa  complainte  .  .  . 

—  Qa  chante  comme  ^a  respire, 
Triste  oiseau  sans  plume  et  sans  nid 
Vaguant  ou  son  instinct  I'attire: 
Autour  des  Bon-Dieu  de  granit  .  .  . 

Qa  peut  parler  aussi,  sans  doute, 
Qa  peut  penser  comme  ga  voit: 
Toujours  devant  soi  la  grand'route  .  . 

—  Et,  quand  q'a  deux  sous,  ga  les  boit. 


20  The    Little    Review 


—  Femme:  on  dirait,  helas!  —  sa  nippe 
Lui  pend,  ficelee  en  jupon; 
Sa  dent  noire  scrre  une  pipe 
Eteintc  .  .  .    Oh,  la  vie  a  du  bon  !  — 

Son  nom  ...  qa  se  nomme  Misere. 
Qa  s'est  trouv^  ne  par  hasard. 
Qa  sera  trouvc  mort  par  terre  .  .  . 
La  meme  chose  —  quelque  part. 

Si  tu  la  rencontres,  Poete, 

Avec  son  vieux  sac  de  soldat  : 

C'est  notre  soeur  .  .  .  donne  —  c'est  fete  — 

Pour  sa  pipe,  un  peu  de  tabac  !  .  .  . 

Tu  verras  dans  sa  face  creuse 
Se  creuser,  comme  dans  du  bois, 
Un  sour  ire;   et  sa  main  galeuse 
Te  faire  un  vrai  signe  de  croix. 

{Lcs  Amours  Jaunes.) 

It  is  not  long  since  a  "strong,  silent"  American  who  had  been 
spending  a  year  or  so  in  Paris,  complained  to  me  chat  "all  French 
poetry  smelt  of  talcum  powder".  He  did  not  specifically  mention 
Corbiere.who,  with  perhaps  a  few  dozen  other  French  poets,  may 
have  been  outside  the  scope  of  his  research.  Corbiere  came  also  to 
"Paris". 


Batard  de  Creole  et  Breton, 
II  vint  aussi  la  —  fourmiliere, 
Bazar  ou  rieri  n'est  en  pierre, 
Ou  le  soleil  manque  de  ton. 

—  Courage  !     On  fait  queue  .  .  .  .  Un  planton 
Vous  pousse  a  la  chaine  —  derriere  !  — 

—  Incendie  eteint,  sans  lumiere; 
Des  seaux  passcnt,  vides  ou  non.  — 


The    Little    Review  21 

La,  sa  pauvre  Muse  pucelle 

Fit  le   trottoir  en  demoiselle. 

lis   disaient  :     Qu'est-ce  qu'elle  vend  ? 

—  Rien.  —   Elle  restait  la,  stupide, 
N'entend^nt  pas  sonner  le  vide 
Et  regardant  passer  le  vent  .... 


II. 

La:  vivre  ci  coups  de  fouet  !  —  passer 
En  fiacre,  en  correotionnelle; 
Repasser  a  la  ritournelle, 
Se  depasser,  et  trepasser  !  — 

—  .Non,  petit,  il  faut  commencer 
Par  etre  grand  —  simple  ficelle  — 
Pauvre:  remuer  Tor  a  la  pelle; 
Obscur:   un  nom  a  tout  casser!   .  .  ,  . 

Le  coller  chez  les  mastroquets, 
Et  I'apprendre  a  des  per  roquets 
Qui  le  chantent  ou  qui  le  sifflerut  — 

—  Musique  !  —  C'est  le  paradis 
Des  mahomets  ou   des  houris, 

Des  dieux   souteneurs  qui  se   giflent  ! 

People,  at  least  some  of  them,  think  more  highly  of  his  Breton 
subjects  than  of  the  Parisian,  but  I  can  not  see  that  he  loses  force 
on  leaving  the  sea-board;  for  example  his  "Frere  et  Soeur  Jumeaux" 
seems  to  me  "by  the  same  hand"  and  rather  better  than  his  "Ros- 
coff".  His  language , does  not  need  any  particular  subject  matter, 
or  prefer  one  to  another.  "Mannequin  ideal,  tete-de-turc  du  leurre". 
"Fille  de  marbe,  en  rut!",  "Je  voudrais  etre  chien  a  une  fille  pub- 
lique"  are  all,  with  a  constant  emission  of  equally  vigorous  phrases, 
to  be  found  in  the  city  poems.  At  his  weakest  he  is  touched  with 
the  style  of  his  time,  i.  e.  he  falls  into  a  phrase  a  la  Hugo,  —  but 
seldom.  And  he  is  conscious  of  the  will  to  break  from  this  manner, 
and  is  the  first,  I  think,  to  satirize  it,  or  at  least  the  first  to  hurl 


I 


22  The    Little    Review 


anything  as  apt  and  violent  as  "garde  nationale  epique"  or  "inven- 
teur  de  la  larme  ecrite"  at  the  Romantico-rhetorico  and  the  senti- 
mento-romantico  of  Hugo  and  Lamartine.  His  nearest  kinships  in 
our  period  are  to  Gautier  and  Laforgue,  though  it  is  Villon  whom 
most  by  life  and  temperament  he  must  be  said  to  resemble. 

Laforgue  was,  for  four  or  five  years,  "reader"  to  the  present     ^ 
Kaiser's  mama    (what  an   existence);   he  escaped  and  died  of  la 
misere.    Corbiere  had,  I  believe,  but  one  level  of  poverty: 

Un  beau  jour  —  quel  metier  !  —  je  faisais,  comme  qa 
Ma  croisiere.  —  Metier!  ...  —  Enfin.    Elle  passa. 
—  Elle  qui,  —  La  Passante!     Elle,  avec  son  ombrelle! 
Vrai  valet  de  bourreau,  je  la  frolai  ....  —  mais  Elle 
Me  regarda  tout  bas,  souriant  en  dessous, 

Et  • —  me  tendit  sa  main,  et 

m'a  donne  deux  sous. 

ARTHURRIMBAUD 

(1854— 1 891) 

Rimbaud's  first  book  appeared  in  '73  His  complete  poems  with 
a  pweface  by  Verlaine  in  '95.  Laforgue  conveys  his  content  by  com- 
ment, Corbiere  by  ejaculation,  as  if  the  words  were  wrenched  and 
knocked  out  of  him  by  fatality;  by  the  violence  of  his  feeling,  Rim- 
baud presents.    A  thick  suave  colour,  firm,  even. 

Cinq  heiires  du  soir 

AuCabaretVert  *' 

Depuis  huit  jours,  j'avais  dechire  mes  bottines  ^. 

Aux  cailloux  des  chemins.    J'entrais  a  Charleroi ,  t 

—  Au  Cabaret  Vert  :  je  demandai  des  tartines  ^ 
De  beurre  et  due  jambon  qui  fut  a  moitie  froid. 

Bienheureux,  j'allongeai  les  jambes  sou3  la  table 

Verte:  je  contemplai  les  sujets  tres  nai'fs 

De  la  tapisserie.  —  Et  ce  fut  adorable  ,  \^ 

Quand  la  fille  aux  tetons  enormes,  aux  yeux  vifs , 


The     Little     Rev 


tew  23 


—  Celle-la  ,  ce  n'est  pas  un  baiser  qui  I'epeure  !  — 
Rieuse,  m'app.orta  des  tartines  de  beurre , 
Du  jambon  tiede.  dans  un  plat  colorie  . 

Du  jambon  rose  et  blanc  parfume  d'une  gousse 

D'ail,  —  et  m'emplit  la  cliope  immense  ,  avec  sa  mousse 

Que  dorait  un  rayon  de  soleil  arriere  . 

The  actual  writing  of, poetry  has  advanced  little,  or  not  at  all 
since  Rimbaud.  Cezanne  was  the  first  to  paint,  as  Rimbaud  had 
written,  —  in  for  example  "Les  Assis  "  : 

lis  out  greffe  dans  des  amours  epileptiques 

Leur  fantasque  ossature  aux  grands  squelettes  noirs 

De  leurs  chaises  ;  leurs  pieds  aux  barreaux  rachitiques 

S'entrelacent  pour  les  matins  et  pour  les  soirs 

Ces  vieillards  ont  toujours  fait  tresse  avec  leurs  sieges  . 

or  in  the  octave  of 

Venus    Anadyomene 

Comme  d'un  cercueil  vert  en  fer-blanc.  une  tete 
De  femme  a  cheveux  bruns  fortement  pomnades 
D'une  vielle  baignoire  emerge,  lente  et  bete, 
Montrant  des  deficits  assez  mal  ravaudes  ; 

Puis  le  col  gras  et  gris  les  larges  omoplates 
Qui  saillent  ;  le  dos  court  qui  rentre  et  qui  ressort , 
—  La  graisse  sous  la  peau  parait  en  feuilles  plates 
Et  les  rondeurs  des  reins  semble  prendre  I'essor  . 

Tailhade  has  painted  his  "Vieilles  Actrices"  at  greater  length , 
but  smiling  ;  Rimbaud  does  not  endanger  his  intensity  by  a  chuckle  . 
He  is  serious  as  Cezanne  is  serious  .  Comparisons  across  an  art  are 
always  vague  and  inexact ,  and  there  are  no  real  parallels  ;  still  it  is 
possible  to  think  of  Corbiere  a  little  as  one  thinks  of  Goya ,  without 
Goya's  Spanish  ,  with  infinite  differences ,  but  with  a  macabre  in- 
tensity, and  a  modernity  that  we  have  not  yet  surpassed  .  There  are 
possible  grounds  for  comparisons  of  lik«  sort  between  Rimbaud  and 
Cezanne. 


24  The     Little     Review 


Tailhade  and  Rimbaud  were  both  born  in  '54  ;  there  is  not  a 
question  of  priority  in  date  ,  I  do  not  know  who  hit  first  on  the  form  , 
but  Rimbaud's  "Chercheuses"  is  a  very  good  example  of  a  mould 
not  unlike  that  into  which  Tailhade  has  cast  his  best  poems  . 


Les   Chercheuses   de   Poux 

Quand  le  front  de  I'enfant  plein  de  rouges  tourmentes, 
Implore  I'essaim  blanc  des  reves  indistincts , 
II  vient  pres  de  son  lit  deux  gran  des  soeurs  charmantes 
Avec  de  freles  doigts  aux  ongles  argentins  . 

Elles  asseoient  I'enfant  aupres  d'une  croisee 
Grande  ouverte  ou  I'air  bleu  baigne  un  fouillis  de  fleurs , 
Et ,  dans  ses  lourds  cheveux  ou  tombe  la  rosee , 
Promenent  leurs  doigts  fins  ,  terribles  et  charmeurs. 

II  ecoute  chanter  leurs  haleines  craintives 
Qui  fleurent  de  longs  miels  vegetaux  et  roses 
Et  qu'interrompt  parfois  un  sifflement.  salives 
Reprises  sur  la  levre  ou  desirs  de  baisers. 

II  entend  leurs  cils  noirs  battant  sous  les  silences 
Parfumes  ;  et  leurs  doigts  electriques  et  doux 
Font  crepiter  ,  parmi  ses  grises  indolences  ,  - 
Sous  leurs  ongles  royaux  la  mort  des  petits  poux  . 

Voila  que  monte  en  lui  le  vin  de  la  Paresse  , 
Soupir  d'harmonica  qui  pourrait  delirer  ; 
L'enfant  se  sent ,  selon  la  lenteur  des  caresses , 
Sourdre  et  mourir  sans  cesse  un  desir  de  pleurer  . 

The  poem  is  "not  really"  like  Tailhade's,  but  the  comparison 
is  worth  while  .  Many  readers  will  be  unable  to  "see  over"  the 
subject  matter  and  consider  the  virtues  of  the  style ,  but  we  are , 
let  us  hope ,  serious  people  ;  besides  Rimbaud's  mastery  is  not  con- 
fined to  "the  umpleasant";       "  Roman"  begins  : 


The    Little    Review  2$ 


I. 

On  n'est  pas  serieux ,  quand  on  a  dix-sept  ans. 

—  Un  beau  soir ,  foin  des  bocks  et  de  la  limonade , 
Des  cafes  tapageurs  aux  lustres  eclatants  I 

—  On  va  sous  les  tilleuls  verts  de  la  promenade . 

Les  tilleuls  sentent  bons  dans  les  bons  soirs  de  juin  ! 

L'  air  est  parfois  si  doux ,  qu'on  ferme  la  paupiere  ; 

Le  vent  charge  de  bruits ,  —  la  ville  n'est  pas 

A  des  parfums  de  vigne  et  des  parfums  de  biere  .  .  .  loin,  — 

The  sixth  line  is  worthy  of  To-em-mei .    But  Rimbaud  has  not 
exhausted  his  idyllic  moods  or  capacities  in  one  poem  .    Witness  : 


Comedie    en    Trois    Baisers 

Elle  etait  fort  deshabillee , 
Et  de  grands  arbres  indiscrets 
Aux  vitres  penchaient  leur  feuillee 
Malignement ,  tout  pres,  tout  pres  . 

Assise  sur  ma  grande  chaise . 
Mi-nue  elle  joignait  les  mains  . 
Sur  le  plancher  frissonnaient  d'aise 
Ses  petits  pieds  si  fin ,  si  fin . 

—  Je  regardai ,   couleur  de  cire 
Un  petit  rayon  buissonnier 
Papillonner ,  comme  un  sourire 

Sur  son  beau  sein  ,  mouche  au  rosier  . 

—  Je  baisai  ses  fines  chevilles . 
Elle  eut  un  long  rire  tres  mal 
Qui  s'egrenait  en  claires  trilles , 
Une  risure  de  cristal 

Les  petits  pieds  sous  la  chemise 
Se  sauverent  :    "Veux-tu  finir  !'-* 

—  La  premiere  audace  permise , 
Le  rire  feignait  de  punir  ! 


26  The    Little    Review 

—  Pauvrets  palpitant  sous  ma  levre , 
Je  baisai  doucement  ses  yeux  : 

—  Elle  jeta  sa  tete  mievre 

En  arriere  :  "Oh  !  c'est  encor  mieux  ! 


"Monsieur  ,  j'ai  deux  mots  a  te  dire " 

—  Je  lui  jetai  le  reste  au  sein 
Dans  un  baiser ,  qui  la  fait  rire 
D'un  bon  rire  qui  voulait  bien  .  .  . 

—  Elle  etait  fort  deshabillee 

Et  de  grands  arbres  indiscrets , 
Aux  vitres  penchaient  leur  feuillee 
Malignement ,  tout  'pres,  tout  pres  . 

The  subject  matter  is  older  than  Ovid  ,  and  how  many  poems  has 
it  led  to  every  silliness,  every  vulgarity  !  One  has  no  instant  of 
doubt  here ,  nor  ,  I  think ,  in  any  line  of  any  poem  of  Rimbaud's . 
The  thing  that  stuns  me  most  in  preparing  this  section  of  my  essay 
is  HOW ,  HOW ,  HOW  !  so  much  could  have  escaped  me  when  I 
read  him  five  years  ago  .  How  much  I  might  have  learned  from 
the  printed  page  that  I  have  learned  slowly  from  actualities  .  Or 
perhaps  we  never  do  learn  from  the  page  ;  but  are  only  capable  of 
recognizing  the  page  after  we  have  learned  from  actuality  . 

I  do  not  know  whether  or  no  Rimbaud  "started"  the  furniture 
poetry  with  "Le  Buffet";  it  probably  comes,  most  of  it,  from  the 
beginning  of  Gautier's  "Albertus".  1  can  not  see  that  the  "Bateau 
Ivre"  rises  above  the  general  level  of  his  work,  though  many  people 
seem  to  know  of  this  poem  (and  of  the  sonnet  on  the  vowels)  who 
do  not  know,  the  rest  of  his  work  .  Both  of  these  poems  are  in  Van 
Bever  and  Leautaud.  I  wonder  in  what  other  poet  will  we  find  such 
firmness  of  colouring  and  such  certitude  . 

TABLE 

If  the  reader  is  unfamiliar  with  the  period  the  following  tabula- 
tion of  dates  may  help  him  "to  keep  things  straight": 

Laforgue  i860- 1887  ;     published  1885 
Corbiere  1840-1875  ;     published  1873  and  1891 


The    Little    Review  27 


Rimbaud  1854-1891  ;     published  1873 

Remy  de  Gourmont  1858-1915 

Merril      1868-1915 

Verhaeren     1855-1916 

Moreas       1856-1911 
Living  : 

Viele-Griffin       1864 

Tailhade      1854 

Jammes       1868 

De  Regnier  1864 
Younger  Men  : 

Klingsor,  Remains,  Vildrac,  Spire 
Other  Dates  : 

Verlaine      1844-1896 

Mallarme     1842-1898 

Samain    1858-IJ900 

Elskamp,    born  1862 


REMY    DE    GOV RMONT 

(1858-1915) 

As  in  prose  Remy  de  Gourmont  found  his  own  form ,  so  also 
in  poetry ,  influenced  presumably  by  the  mediaeval  sequaires  and 
particularly  by  that  Goddeschalk  quoted  in  his  (De  Gourmont's) 
work  on  "Le  Latin  Mystique",  he  recreated  the  "litanies".  It  is 
one  of  the  great  gifts  of  "symbolisme",  of  the  doctrine  that  one  should 
''suggest"  not  "present";  it  is,  in  his  hand,  an  effective  indirectness . 
The  procession  of  all  beautiful  women  moves  before  one  in  the 
"Litanies  de  la  Rose";  and  the  rhythm  is  incomparable  .  It  is  not 
a  poem  to  lie  on  the  page,  it  must  come  to  life  in  audition ,  or  in  the 
finer  audition  which  one  may  have  in  imagining  sound.  One  must 
"hear"  it,  in  one  way  or  another  ,  and  out  of  that  intoxication  comes 
beauty.  One  does  no  injustice  to  DeGourmont  by  giving  this  p>oem 
alone  .  The  "Litany  of  the  Trees"  is  of  equal  or  almost  equal  beauty. 
The  Sonnets  in  prose  are  different  ;  they  rise  out  of  natural  speech  , 
out  of  conversation  .  Paul  Fort  perhaps  began  or  rebegan  the  use 
of  conversational  speech  in  rhyming  prose  paragraphs ,  at  times 
charmingly. 


1 


28  The     Little     Review 


LI  TAMES     I)K      I. A     ROSK 

A  Henry  de  Groux. 

Fleur  hypocrite, 

Fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  couleur  de  cuivre,  plus  frauduleuse  que  nos  joies,  rose 
couleur  de  cuivre,  embaume-nous  dans  tes  mensonges,  fleur  hypocrite, 
fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  au  visage  peint  comme  une  fille  d'amour,  rose  au  cceur 
prostitue,  rose  au  visage  peint,  fais  semblant  d'etre  pitoyable.  fleur 
hypocrite,  fleur'  du  silence. 

Rose  a'  la  joue  puerile,  6  vierges  des  futures  trahisons,  rose 
a  la  joue  puerile,  innocente  et  rouge,  ouvre  les  rets  de  tes  yeux  clairs, 
fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  aux  yeux  noirs,  miroir  de  ton  neant,  rose  aux  yeux  noirs, 
fais-nous  croire  au  mystere,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  couleur  d'or  pur,  6  coffe-fort  de  1 'ideal,  rose  couleur  d'or 
pur,  donne-nous  la  clef  de  ton  ventre,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du 
silence. 

Rose  couleur  d'argent,  encensoir  de  nos  reves.  rose  couleur 
d'argent,  prends  notre  cceur  et  fais-en  de  la  fumee,  fleur  hypocrite, 
fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  au  regard  saphique.  plus  pale  que  les  lys,  rose  au  regard 
saphique,  offre-nous  le  parfum  de  ton  illusoire  virginite,  fleur  hypo- 
crite, fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  au  front  pourpre,  colere  des  femmes  dedaignees.  rose 
au  front  pourpre  dis-nous  le  secret  de  ton  orgueil.  fleur  hypocrite, 
fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  au  front  d'ivoire  jaune,  amante  de  toi-meme,  rose  au 
front  d'ivoire  jaune,  dis-nous  le  secret  de  tes  nuits  virginales,  fleur 
hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  aux  levres  de  sang,  6  mangeuse  de  chair,  rose  aux  levres 
de  sang,  si  tu  veux  notre  sang,  qu'en  ferions-nous  ?  bois-le,  fleur 
hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  couleur  de  soufre,  enfer  des  desirs  vains,  rose  couleur  de 
soufre,  allume  le  bijcher  ou  tu  planes,  ame  et  flamme,  fleur  hypwcrite, 
fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  couleur  de  peche,  fruit  veloute  de  fard,  rose  sournoise, 
rose  couleur  de  peche,  empoisonne  nos  dents,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur 
du  silence. 


I 


The    Little    Review  29 

Rose  couleur  de  chair,  deesse  de  la  bonne  volonte,  rose  couleur 
de  chair,  fais-nous  baiser  la  tristesse  de  ta  peau  fraiche  et  fade,  fleuf 
hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  vineuse,  fleur  des  tonnelles  et  des  caves,  rose  vineuse, 
les  alcools  fous  gambadent  dans  ton  haleine:  souffle-nous  I'horreur 
de  I'amour,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  violette,  6  modestie  des  fillettes  perverses,  rose  violette, 
tes  yeux  sont  plus  grands  que  la  reste,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du 
silence. 

Rose  rose,  pucelle  au  cceur  desordonne,  rose  rose,  robe  de 
mousseline,  entr'ouvre  tes  ailes  fausses,  ange,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur 
du  silence. 

Rose  en  papier  de  sole,  simulacre  adorable  des  graces  increees, 
rose  en  papier  de  sole,  n'es-tu  pas  la  vraie  rose,  fleur  hj^ocrite,  fleur 
du  silence? 

Rose  couleur  d'aurore,  couleur  du  temps,  couleur  de  rien,  6 
sourire  du  Sphinx,  rose  couleur  d'aurore,  sourire  ouvert  sur  le  neant, 
nous  t'aimerons,  car  tu  mens,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  blonde,  leger  manteau  de  chrome  sur  des  epaules  freles, 
6  rose  blonde,  femelle  plus  forte  que  les  males,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur 
■du  silence  ! 

Rose  en  forme  de  coupe,  vase  rouge  ou  mordent  les  dents  quand 
la  bouche  y  vient  boire,  rose  en  forme  de  coupe,  nos  morsures  te 
font  sourire  et  nos  baisers  te  font  pleurer,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du 
silence. 

Rose  toute  blanche,  innocente  et  couleur  de  lait,  rose  toute 
blanche,  tant  de  candeur  nous  epouvante,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du 
silence. 

Rose  couleur  de  bronze,  pate  cuite  au  soleil,  rose  couleur  de 
bronze,  les  plus  durs  javelots  s'emoussent  sur  ta  peau,  fleur  hypo- 
crite fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  couleur  de  feu,  creuset  special  pour  les  chairs  refractaires, 
rose  couleur  de  feu,  6  providence  des  ligueurs  en  enfance,  fleur 
hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  incarnate,  rose  stupide  et  pleine  de  sante,  rose  incarnate, 
tu  nous  abreuves  et  tu  nous  leurres  d'un  vin  tres  rouge  et  tres  benin. 
fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  en  satin  cerise,  munificence  exquise  des  levres  triomphales, 
rose  en  satin  cerise,  ta  bouche  enluminee  a  pose  sur  nos  chairs  le 
sceau  de  pourpre  de  son  mirage,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 


30  The    Little    Review 

Rose  au  cceur  virginal,  6  louche  et  rose  adolescence  qui  n'a  pas 
encore  parle.  rose  au  cceur  virginal,  tu  n'ais  rien  a  nous  dire,  fleur 
hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  groseiUe,  honte  et  rongeur  des  peches  ridicules,  rose 
groseille,  on  a  trop  chiffonne  ta  robe,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du 
silence. 

Rose  couleur  du  soir,  demi-morte  d'ennui,  fumee  crepusculaire, 
rose  couleur  du  soir,  tu  meurs  d'amour  en  baisant  tes  mains  lasses, 
fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  bleu,  rose  iridine,  monstre  couleur  des  yeux  de  la  Chi- 
mere,  rose  bleue,  leve  un  peu  tes  paupieres:  as-tu  peur  qu'on  te  re- 
garde,  les  yeux  dans  les  yeux,  Chimere,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du 
silence  ! 

Rose  verte,  rose  couleur  de  mer,  6  nombril  des  sirenes,  rose 
verte,  gemme  ondoyante  et  fabuleuse,  tu  n'es  plus  que  de  I'eau  des 
qu'un  doigt  t'a  touchee,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  escarboucle,  rose  fleurie  au  front  noir  du  dragon,  rose 
escarboucle.  tu  n'es  plus  qu'une  boucle  de  ceinture,  fleur  hypocrite, 
fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  couleur  de  vermilion,  bergere  enamouree  couchee  dans  les 
sillons,  rose  couleur  de  vermilion,  le  berger  te  respire  et  le  bouc  t'a 
broutee,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  des  tombes,  fraicheur  emanee  des  charognes,  rose  des 
tombes,  toute  mignonne  et  rose,  adorable  parfum  des  fines  pourri- 
tures,  tu  fais  semblant  de  vivre,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  brune,  couleur  des  mornes  acajous,  rose  brune,  plaisirs 
permis,  sagesse,  prudence  et  prevoyance,  tu  nous  regardes  avec  des 
yeux  rogues,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  ponceau,  ru])an  des  fillettes  modelcs,  rose  ponceau,  gloire 
des  petites  poupees,  es-tu  niaise  ou  sournoise,  joujou  des  petits 
freres,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  rouge  et  noire,  rose  insolente  et  secrete,  rose  rouge  et  noire, 
ton  insolence  et  ton  rouge  ont  pali  parmi  Is  compromis  qu'invente 
la  vertu,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  ardoise.  grisaille  des  vertus  vaporeuses,  rose  ardoise.  tu 
grimpes  et  tu  fleuris  autour  des  vieux  bancs  solitaires,  rose  du  soir, 
fleur  hypocrite,fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  pivoine,  modeste  vanite  des  jardins  plantureux,  rose 
pivoine,  le  vent  n'a  retrousse  tes  feuilles  que  par  hasard,  et  tu  n'en 
fus  pas  mecontente,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 


The    Little    Review  31 

Rose  neigeuse,  couleur  de  la  neige  et  des  plumes  du  cygne,  rose 
neigeuse,  tu  sais  que  la  neige  est  fragile  et  tu  n'ouvres  tes  plumes  de 
cygne  qu'aux  plus  insignes,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  hyaline,  couleur  des  sources  claires  jaillies  d'entre  les 
herbes,  rose  hyaline,  Hylas  est  mort  d'avoir  aime  tes  yeux,  fleur 
hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  opale,  6  sultane  endormie  dans  I'ordeur  du  harem,  rose 
opale,  langueur  des  constantes  caresses,  ton  cceur  connait  la  paix 
profonde  des  vices  satisfaits,  fleur  hypocrite,  -fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  amethyste,  etoile  matinale,  tendresse  episcopale,  rose 
amethyste,  tu  dors  sur  des  poitrines  devotes  et  douillettes,  gemme 
offerte  a  Marie,  6  gemme  sacristine.  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  cardinale,  rose  couleur  du  sang  de  I'Eglise  romaine,  rose 
cardinale,  tu  fais  rever  les  grands  yeux  des  mignons  et  plus  d'un 
t'epingla  au  nceud  de  sa  jarretiere,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du  silence. 

Rose  papale,  rose  arrosee  des  mains  qui  benissent  le  monde,  rose 
papale,  ton  coeur  d'or  est  en  cuivre,  et  les  larmes  qui  perlent  sur  ta 
vaine  corolle,  ce  sont  les  pleurs  du  Christ,  fleur  hypocrite,  fleur  du 
silence. 

Fleur  hypocrite, 

Fleur  du  silence. 


DE     REGNIER 

(  born  1864  ) 

De  Regnier  is  counted  a  successor  to  the  Parnassiens ,  and  has 
indeed  written  much  of  gods  and  of  marble  fountains,  as  much  per- 
haps of  the  marble  decor  as  have  other  contemporaries  of  late 
renaissance  and  of  more  modern  house  furniture .  His  "J'ai  feint 
que  les  dieux  m'aient  parle"  opens  charmingly .  He  has  in  the 
"Odelettes"  made  two  darts  into  vers  libre  which  are  perhaps 
worth  many  more  orderly  pages  ,  and  show  lyric  sweetness. 

O  d  e  1  e  1 1  e 

Si  j'ai  parle 

De  mon  amour ,  c'est  a  I'eau  lente 

Qui  m'ecoute  quand  je  me  penche 

Sur  elle  ;  si  j'ai  parle 

De  mon  amour ,  c'est  au  vent 


31  T  he     Lit  tig     Review 


Qui  rit  et  chuchote  entre  les  branches  ; 

Si  j'ai  parle  de  mon  amour,  c'est  a  I'oiseau 

Qui  passe  et  chante 

Avec  le  vent  ; 

Si  j'ai  parle 

C'est  k  I'echo . 

Si  j'tii  aime  de  grand  amour, 

Triste  ou  joyeux , 

Ce  sont  tes  yeux  ;    * 

Si  j'ai  aim6  de  grand  amour , 

Ce  fut  ta  bouche  grave  et  douce  , 

Ce  fut  ta  bouche  ; 

Si  j  'ai  aime  de  grand  amour  , 

Ce  furent  ta  chair  tiede  et  tes  mains  fraiches , 

Et  c'est  ton  ombre  que  je  cherche  . 

He  has  joined  himself  to  the  painters  of  contemporary  things  in: 


L'  a  c  c  u  e  i  1 

Tous  deux  etaient  beaux  de  corps  et  de  visages, 

L'air  francs  et  sages 

Avec  un  clair  sourire  dans  les  yeux, 

Et,  devant  eux, 

Debout  en  leur  jeunesse  svelte  et  prompte, 

Je  me  sentais  courbe  et  j'avais  presque  honte 

D'etre  si  vieux. 

Les  ans 

Sont  lourds  aux  epaules  et  pesent 

Aux  plus  fortes 

De  tout  de  poids  des  heures  mortes, 

Les  ans 

Sont  durs,  et  breve 

La  vie  et  Ton  a  vite  des  cheveaux  blancs  ; 

Et  j'ai  deja  vecu  beaucoup  de  jours. 

Les  ans  sont  lourds  .... 

Et  tous  deux  me  regardaient,  surpris  de  voir 
Celui  qu'ils  croyaient  autre  en  leur  pensee 


The    Little     Review  33 


Se  lever  pour  les  recevoir 

Vetu  de  bure  et  le  front  nu 

Et  non  pas,  comme  en  leur  pensee, 

Drape  de  pourpre  et  laure  d'or 

Et  je  leur  dis  :    "Soyez  tous  deux  les  bienvenus." 

Ce  fut  alors 

Que  je  leur  dis: 

"Mes  fils,  quoi,  vous  avez  monte  la  cote 

Sous  ce  soleil  cuisant  d'aout 

Jusqu'a  ma  maison  haute, 

O  vous 

Qu'attend  la-bas  peut-etre.  au  terme  du  chemin 

Le  salut  amoureux  de  quelque  blanche  main  ! 

Si  vous  avez  pour  moi  allonge  votre  route 

Peut-etre,  au  moins  mes  chants  vous  auront-ils  aides, 

De  leurs  rythmes  presents  en  vos  memoires, 

A  marcher  d'un  jeune  pas  scande  ? 

Je  n'ai  jamais  desire  d'autre  gloire 

Sinon  que  les  vers  du  poete 

Plussent  a  la  voix  qui  les  repete. 

Si  les  miens  vous  ont  plu:  merci, 

Car  c'est  pour  cela  que,  chantant 

Mon  reve,  apres  I'avoir  concu  en  mon  esprit, 

Depuis  vingt  ans, 

J'habite  ici." 

Et,  d'un  geste,  je  leur  montrai  la  chambre  vide 

Avec  son  mur  de  pierre  et  sa  lampe  d'argile 

Et  le  lit  ou  je  dors  et  le  sol  oil,  du  pied, 

Je  frappe  pour  apprendre  au  vers  estropie 

A  marcher  droit,  et  le  calame  de  roseau 

Dont  la  pointe  subtile  aide  a  fixer  le  mot 

Sur  la  tablette  lisse  et  couverte  de  cire 

Dont  la  divine  odeur  la  retient  et  I'attire 

Et  le  fait,  dans  la  strophe  en  fleurs  qu'il  ensoleille, 

Mysterieusement  vibrer  comme  une  abeille. 

Et  je  repris: 
"Mes  fils. 


34  The     Little     Review 


Les  ans 

Sont  lourds  aux  epaules  et  pesent 

Aux  plus  fortes 

De  tout  le  poids  des  heures  mortes  . 

Les  ans  ^ 

Sont  durs,  la  vie  est  breve  | 

Et  Ton  a  vite  des  cheveux  blancs.,  1 

Si  quelque  jour, 

En  revenant  d'ou  vous  allez, 

Vous  rencontriez  sur  cette  meme  route, 

Entre  4es  orges  et  les  bles. 

Des  gens  en  troupe 

Montant  ici  avec  des  palmes  k  la  main, 

Dites-vous  bien 

Que  si  vous  les  suiviez  vous  ne  me  verriez  pas 

Comme  aujourd'hui  debout  en  ma  robe  de  laine 

Qui  se  troue  a  I'epaule  et  se  dechire  au  bras, 

Mais  drape  de  pourpre  hautaine 

Peut-etre  —  et  mort 

Et  laure  d'or!" 

Je  leur  ai  dit  cela,  pour  qu'ils  le  sachent. 
Car  ils  sont  beaux  tous  deux  de  corps  et  de  visages, 
L'air  francs  et  sages 
•      Avec  un  clair  sourire  aux  yeux, 
Parce  qu'en  eux 

Peut-etre  vit  quelque  desir  de  gloire, 
Je  leur  ai  parlc  ainsi  pour  qu'ils  sachent 
Ce  qu'est  la  gloire, 
Ce  qu'elle  donne, 
Ce  qu'il  faut  croire 
De  son  vain  jeu, 

Et  que  son  dur  laurier  ne  pose  sa  couronne 
Que  sur  le  front  inerte  et  qui  n'est  plus  qu'un  peu 
Deja  d'argile  humaine  ou  vient  de  vivre  un  Dieu. 

Here  we  have  the  modern  tone  in  De  Regnier  .  My  own  feeling 
at  the  moment  is  that  his  hellenics  ,  his  verse  on  classical  and  an- 
cient subjects,  is  likely  to  be  overshadowed  by  that  of  Samain  and 
Heredia  .     I  have  doubts  whether  his  books  will  hold  against  the 


The    Little    Review  35 

Cleopatra  sonnets,  or  if  he  has  equalled ,  in  this  vein,  the  poem  be- 
ginning "Mon  ame  est  une  infante  en  robe  de  parade".  But  in  the 
lyric  odelette ,  and  in  this  last  given  poem  in  particular  we  find  him 
leading  perhaps  onward  toward  Vildrac  ,  and  toward  a  style  which 
might  be  the  basis  for  a  certain  manner  F.  M.  Hueffer  has  used  in 
English  vers  libre,  rather  than  remembering  the  Parnassiens . 

EMILE    VERHAEREN 

Verhaeren  has  been  so  well  introduced  to  America  by  his  recent 
obituary  notices  that  I  can  scarcely  hope  to  compete  with  them  in 
this  limited  space  .  One  can  hardly  represent  him  better  them  by 
the  well  known  : 


Les    Pauvres 

II  esfainsi  de  pauvres  cceurs 
avec  en  eux,  des  lacs  de  pleurs , 
qui  sont  pales ,  comme  les  pierres 
d'un  cimetiere  . 

II  est  ainsi  de  pauvres  dos 
plus  lourds  de  peine  et  de  fardeaux 
que  les  toits  des  cassines  brunes , 
parmi  les  dunes . 

II  est  ainsi  de  pauvres  mains , 
comme  feuilles  sur  les  chemins  , 
comme  feuilles  jaunes  et  mortes, 
devant  la  porte  . 

II  est  ainsi  de  pauvres  yeux 
humbles  et  bons  et  soucieux 
et  plus  tristes  que  ceux  des  betes , 
sous  la'tempete  . 


II  est  ainsi  de  pauvres  gens , 
aux  gestes  las  et  indulgents 
sur  qui  s'acharne  la  misere , 
au  long  des  plaines  de  la  terre 


36  The    Little    Review 


VIELE-GRIFFIN 

Two  men,  Viele-Griffin  and  Stuart  Merril,  who  are  half  Ameri- 
cans have  won  for  themselves  places  among  the  recent  French  poets  . 
Viele-Griffin's  poem  for  the  death  of  Mallarme  is  among  his  better 
known  works  : 


In    Memoriam    Stephane    Mallarme 

Si  Ton  te  disait  :     Maitre  ! 

Le  jour  se  leve  ; 

Voici  une  aube  encore  ,   la  meme  .  pale  ; 

Maitre,   j'ai  ouvert  la  fenetre , 

L'aurore  s'en  vient  encor  du  seuil  oriental , 

Un  jour  va  naitre  ! 

— Je  croirais  t'entendre  dire  :  Je  reve  .  ■ 

Si  Ton  te  disait  :  Maitre  ,  nous  sommes  la , 

Vivants  et  forts , 

Comme  ce  soir  d'hier,  devant  ta  porte  ; 

Nous  sommes  venus  en  riant ,  nous  somrnes  la  , 

Guettant  le  sourire  et  I'etreinte  forte , 

—  On  nous  repondrait  :     Le  Maitre  est  mort . 

Des  fleurs  de  ma  terrasse ,  i 

Des  fleurs  comme  au  feuillet  d'un  livre ,  ■' 

Des  fleurs  ,  pourquoi  ? 

Voici  un  peu  de  nous ,  la  chanson  basse 

Qui  tourne  et  tombe , 

—  Comme  ces  feuilles-ci  tombent  et  tournoient  — 
Voici  la  honte  et  la  colere  de  vivre 

Et  de  parler  des  mots  —  contre  ta  tombe  . 

His  curious  and,  perhaps  not  in  the  bad  sense,  old-fashioned 
melodic  quality  shows  again  in  the  poem  beginning: 

Lache  comme  le  froid  et  la  pluie , 
Brutal  et  sourd  comme  le  vent , 
Louche  et  faux  comme  le  ciel  has , 


The    Little    Review  37 

L'Automme  rode  par  ici , 

Son  baton  heurte  aux  cpntrevents  ; 

Ouvre  la  porte ,  car  il  est  la . 

Ouvre  la  porte  et  fais-lui  honte , 
Son  manteau  s'effiloche  et  traine  , 
Ses  pieds  sont  alourdis  de  boue  ; 
Jette-lui  des  pierres,  quoi  qu'il  te  conte , 
Ne  Grains  pas  ses  paroles  de  haine  : 
C'est  tou jours  un  role  qu'il  joue  . 


It   is  embroidery   a   la   Charles   D 'Orleans;    one  must   take  it 
or  leave  it. 


STUART    MERRIL 

I  know  that  I  have  seen  somewhere  a  beautiful  and  effective 
ballad  of  Merril's  .  His  "Chambre  D'Amour"  would  be  more  in- 
teresting if  Samain  had  not  written  "L'Infante",  but  Merril's  paint- 
ing is  perhaps  interesting  as  comparison  .     It  begins  : 

Dans  la  chambre  qui  fleure  un  peu  la  bergamote  , 
Ce  soir,  lasse.  la  voix  de  I'ancien  clavecin 
Chevrote  des  refrains  enfantins  de  gavotte . 

There  is  a  great  mass  of  this  poetry  full  of  highly  cultured 
house  furnishing  ;  I  think  Catulle  Mendes  also  wrote  it .  Merril's 
"Nocturne"  illustrates  a  mode  of  symboliste  writing  which  has  been 
since  played  out  and  parodied  : 

La  bleme  lune  allume  en  la  mare  qui  luit , 
Miroir  des  gloires  d'or ,  un  emoi  d'incendie  . 
Tout  dort .    Seul ,  a  mi-mort ,  un  rossignol  de  nuit 
Module  en  mal  d'amour  sa  moUe  melodie . 
Plus  ne  vibrent  les  vents  en  le  mystere  vert 
Des  ramures  .    La  lune  a  tu  leurs  voix  nocturnes  : 
Mais  a  travers  le  deuil  du  feuillage  entr'ouvert 
Pleuvent  les  bleus  baisers  des  astres  taciturnes  . 


38  The    Little    Review 

There  is  no  need  to  take  this  sort  of  tongue-twisting  too  seri- 
ously .  though  it  undoubtedly  was  so  taken  in  Paris  during  the  late 
eighties  and  early  nineties  . 


LAURENT    TAILHADE 

(  born  1854  ) 

Tailhade's  satires  seem  rough  if  one  come  upon  them  straight 
from  reading  Laforgue  ,  and  Laforgue  will  seem,  and  is  presumably, 
the  greatly  finer  artist  ;  but  the  reader  must  not  fail  to  note  certain 
definite  differences  .  Laforgue  is  criticizing,  and  conveying  a  mood. 
He  is  more  or  less  literary  ,  playing  with  words  .  Tailhade  is  paint- 
ing contemporary  Paris,  with  verve.  His  eye  is  on  the  thing 
itself .  He  has  ,  au  fond  ,  not  very  much  in  common  with  Laforgue  . 
He  was  born  six  years  before  Laforgue  and  in  the  same  year  as 
Rimbaud  .  Their  temperaments  are  by  no  means  identical  .  I  do 
not  know  whether  Tailhade  wrote  "Hydrotherapie"  before  Rim- 
baud had  done  "Les  Chercheuses".  Rimbaud  in  that  poem  identi- 
fies himself  more  or  less  with  the  child  and  its  feeling .  Tailhade  is 
detached.  I  do  not  say  this  as  praise  of  either  one  or  the  other . 
I  am  only  trying  to  keep  things  distinct . 

Hydrotherapie 

Le  vieux  monsieur ,  pour  prendre  une  douche  ascendante  , 
A  couronne  son  chef  d'un  casque  d'hidalgo 
Qui,  malgre  sa  bedaine  ample  et  son  lumbago  , 
Lui  donne  un  certain  air  de  famille  avec  Dante . 

Ainsi  ses  membres  gourds  et  sa  vertebre  a  point 
Traversent  I'appareil  des  tuyaux  et  des  lances  , 
Tandis  que  des  masseurs ,    tout  gonfles  d'insolences , 
Frottent  au  gant  de  crin  son  dos  ou  I'acne  point . 

Oh  !     I'eau  froide  !     la  bonne  et  rare  panacee 
Qui ,  seule  ,  raffermit  la  charpente  lassee 
Et  le  protoplasma  des  senateurs  pesants  ! 


I 


T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    R  ev  iew  39 

Voici  que ,  dans  la  rue ,  au  sortir  de  sa  douche , 

Le  vieux  monsieur  qu'on  sait  un  magistral  farouche 
Tient  des  propos  grivois  aux  filles  de  douze  ans  . 


Qu  artier     Latin 

Dans  le  bar  ou  jamais  le  parfum  des  brevas 
Ne  dissipa  I'odeur  de  vomi  qui  la  navre 
Triomphent  les  appas  de  la  mere  Cadavre 
Dont  le  nom  est  fameux  jusque  chez  les  Howas  . 

Brune  ,  elle  fut  jadis  vantee  entre  les  brunes , 
Tant  que  son  souvenir  au  Vaux-Hall  est  reste  . 
Et  c'est  toujours  avec  beaucoup  de  dignite 
Qu'elle  rince  le  zinc  et  detaille  les  prunes  . 

A  ces  causes,  son  cabaret  s'emplit  le  soir , 
De  futurs  avoues  ,  trop  heureux  de  surseoir 
Quelque  temps  a  I'etude  inepte  des  Digestes , 

Des  Valaques ,  des  riverains  du  fleuve  Amoor 

S'acoquinent  avec  des  potards  indigestes 

Qui  s'y  viennent  former  aux  choses  de  I'amour . 

R  u  s 

Ce  qui  fait  que  I'ancien  bandagiste  renie 
Le  comptoir  dont  le  faste  allechait  les  passants  , 
C'est  son  jardin  d'Auteuil  ou  ,  veufs  de  tout  encens , 
Les  zinnias  ont  I'air  d'etre  en  tole  vernie  . 

C'est  la  qu'il  vient ,  le  soir ,  goiiter  Pair  aromal 
Et ,  dans  sa  rocking-chair ,  en  veston  de  flanelle , 
Aspirer  les  senteurs  qu'epanchent  sur  Crenelle 
Les  fabriques  de  suif  et  de  noir  animal . 

Blen  que  libre-penseur  et  franc-maqon  ,  il  juge 

Le  dieu  propice  qui  lui  donna  ce  refuge 

Ou  se  meurt  un  cyprin  emmy  la  piece  d'eau , 


40  The    Little    Review 


Oil ,  dans  la  tour  mauresque  aux  lanternes  chinoises  , 
—  Tout  en  lui  preparant  du  sirop  de  framboises  — 
Sa  "demoiselle"  chante  un  couplet  de  Nadaud  . 

From  this  beneficient  treatment  of  the  amiable  burgess  ;  from 
this  perfectly  j^oetic  inclusion  of  modernity  ,  this  unrhetorical  inclu- 
sion of  the  factories  in  the  vicinity  of  Crenelle  (inclusion  quite  differ- 
ent from  the  allegorical  presentation  of  workmen's  trousers  in  sculp- 
ture ,  and  the  grandiloquent  theorizing  about  the  socialistic  up-lift  or 
down-pull  of  smoke  and  machinery),  Tailhade  can  move  to  personal 
satire ,  a  personal  satire  impersonalized  by  its  glaze  and  its  finish. 

Rondel 

Dans  les  cafes  d'adolescents 
IMoreas  cause  avec  Fremine  : 
L'un  ,  d'un  parfait  cuistre  a  la  mine  , 
L'autre  beugle  des  contre-sens  . 

Rien  ne  sort  moins  de  chez  Classens 
Que  le  linge  de  ces  bramines  . 
Dans  les  cafes  d'adolescents  , 
Moreas  cause  avec  Fremine  . 

Desagregeant  son  albumine , 
La  Tailhede  offre  quelque  encens  : 
Maurras  leur  invente  Commine 
Et  9a  fait  roter  les  passants , 
Dans  les  cafes  d'adolescents  . 

But  perhaps  the  most  characteristic  phase  of  Tailhade  is  in  his 
pictures  of  the  bourgeoisie.  Here  is  one  depicted  with  all  Tailhadian 
serenity  .    Note  also  the  opulence  of  his  vocables  . 


Diner     Champetre 

Entre  les  sieges  ou  des  gar<;ons  volontaires 
Entassent  leurs  chalants  parmi  les  boulingrins , 
La  famille  Feyssard  ,  avec  des  airs  sereins , 
Discute  longuement  les  tables  solitaires . 


The    Little    Review  41 


La  demoiselle  a  mis  un  chapeau  rouge  vif 
Dont  s'honore  le  bon  faiseur  de  sa  commune  , 
Et  madame  Feyssard  ,  un  peu  hommasse  et  brune  , 
Porte  une  robe  loutre  avec  des  reflets  d'if . 


r 


Enfin  ils  sont  assis  !    Or  le  pere  com.mande 
Des  ecrevisses ,  du  potage  au  lait  d'amande  , 
Toutes  choses  dont  il  revait  depuis  longtemps  . 

Et ,  dans  le  ciel  couleur  de  turquoises  fanees , 
II  voit  les  songes  bleus  qu'en  ses  esprits  flottant 
A  fait  naitre  I'ampleur  des  truites  saumonees  . 

All  through  this  introduction  I  am  giving  the  sort  of  French 
poem  least  likely  to  have  been  worn  smooth  to  us;  I  mean  the  kind 
of  poem  least  represented  in  English.  Landor  and  Swinburne  have 
I  think  forestalled  Tailhade's  hellenic  poems  in  our  affections. 
There  are  also  his  ballades  to  be  considered  . 


FRANCIS    J  A  M  M  E  S 

(born   186S) 

The  bulk  of  Jammes'  unsparable^poetry  is  perhaps  larger  than 
that  of  any  man  still  living  in  France.  The  three  first  books  of 
poems,  and  ''Le  Triumphe  de  la  Vie"  CDntaining  ''Existences",  the 
more  than  "Spoon  River"  ol  France  ,  must  contain  about  six  hun- 
dred pages  worth  reading  .  'Existences"  can  not  be  rendered  in 
snippets.  It  is  not  a  series  of  poems  but  the  canvass  of  an  whole 
small  town  or  half  city ,  unique  ,  inimitable  and  "to  the  life", 
full  of  verve .  Only  those  who  have  read  it  and  "L'Angelus  de 
I'Aube",  can  appreciate  the, full  tragedy  of  Jammes'  debacle.  Paul 
Fort  had  what  his  friends  boasted  as  '"tone",  and  he  has  diluted 
himself  with  topicalities  ;  in  Jammes'  case  it  is  more  charitable  to 
suppose  some  organic  malady,  some  definite  softening  of  the  brain  , 
for  he  seems  perfectly  simple  and  naive  in  his  diliquescence.  It 
may  be,  in  both  cases,  that  the  organisms  have  broken  beneath  the 
strain  of  modern  existence  .  But  the  artist  has  no  business  to 
break  . 

Let  us  begin  with  Jammes'  earlier  work  : 


42  The    Little    Review 


J'aime  I'ane  si  doux 

marchant  le  long  des  houx. 

II  prcnd  garde  uux  abcilles 

et  bouge  ses  oreilles  ; 

et  il  porte  les  pauvres 

et  des  sacs  remplis  d'orge.  . 

II  va  ,  pres  des  fosses  *■ 

d'un  petit  pas  casse.  „ 

Men  amie  le  croit  bete 

parce  qu'il  est  poete,  t 

II  reflechit  tou jours, 

Ses  yeux  sont  en  velours. 

Jeune  fille  aa  doux  coeur 

tu  n'as  pas  sa  douceur. 


The  fault  is  the  fault,  or  danger,  which  Dante  has  labled 
"muHebria";  of  its  excess  Jammes  has  since  perished.  But  the  poem 
to  the  donkey  can  ,  in  certain  moods ,  please  one  .  In  other  moods 
the  playful  simplicity  ,  at  least  in  excess  ,  is  almost  infuriating  .  He 
runs  so  close  to  sentimentalizing  —  when  he  does  not  fall  into  that 
puddle  —  that  there  are  numerous  excuses  for  those  who  refuse  him 
altogether  .  "J'allai  a  Lourdes"  has  pathos  .  Compare  it  with  Cor- 
biere's  "St  Anne"  and  the  decadence  is  apparent  ;  it  is  indeed  a  sort 
of  half-way  house  between  the  barbaric  Breton  religion  and  the  ulti- 
mate diliquescence  of  french  Catholicism  in  Claude! ,  who  (as  I 
think  it  is  James  Stephens  has  said)  "is  merely  lying  on  his  back 
kicking  his  heels  in  it". 

J'     allai     a     Lourdes 

J'allai  a  Lourdes  par  le  chemin  de  fer  , 
le  long  du  gave  qui  est  bleu  comme  I'air  . 

Au  soleil  les  montagnes  semblaient  d'etain  . 

Et  Ton  chantait  :     sauvez  I     sauvez  !     dans  le  train  , 

II  y  avait  un  monde  fou  ,   exalte , 
plein  de  poussiere  et  du  soleil  d'ete. 


The    Little    Review  43 

Des  malheureux  avec  le  ventre  en  avant 
etendaient  leurs  bras  ,  priaient  en  les  tordant . 

Et  dans  une  chaire  ou  etait  du  drap  bleu , 
un  pretre  disait  :  "un  chapelet  a  Dieu  ! " 

Et  un  groupe  de  femmes  ,   parfois  ,    passait , 

qui  chantait  :  sauvez  !    sauvez  !    sauvez  !    sauvez  ! 

Et  la  procession  chantait .    Les  drapeaux 
se  penchaient  avec  leurs  devises  en  or  . 

Le  soleil  etait  blanc  sur  les  escaliers 
dans  I'air  bleu  ,  sur  les  cloches  dechiquetes. 

Mais  sur  un  brancard  ,  portee  par  ses  parents  , 
son  pauvre  pere  tete  nue  et  priant , 

et  ses  freres  qui  disaient  :  "   ainsi  soit-il," 
une  jeune  fille  sur  le  point  de  mourir. 

Oh  !     qu'elle  etait  belle  !     elle  avait  dix-huit  ans  , 
et  elle  souriait  ;  elle  etait  en  blanc  . 

Et  la  procession  chantait.     Des  drapeaux 
se  penchaient  avec  leurs  devises  en  or . 

Moi  je  serrais  les  dents  pour  ne  pas  pleurer , 
et  cette  fille ,  je  me  sentais  I'aimer  . 

Oh  !     elle  m'a  regarde  un  grand  moment , 
une  rose  blanche  en  main ,  souriant. 

Mais  maintenant  ou  es-tu  ?   dis  ,   on  es-tu  , 
Es-tu  morte  ?  je  t'aime  ,  toi  qui  m'as  vu  . 

Si  tu  existes  ,    Dieu  ,   ne  la  tue  pas  . 

elle  avait  des  mains  blanches  ,  de  minces  bras  . 


44  The    Little    Review 


Dieu  ne  la  tue  pas  !    —  et  ne  serai t-ce  que 
pour  son  pere  nu-tete  qui  priait  Dieu  . 

Jammes  goes  to  pieces  on  such  adjectives  as  "pauvre"  and 
"petite",  just  as  DeRegnier  slips  on  "cher",  "aimee"  and  "tiede"; 
and  in  their  train  flock  the  herd  whose  adjectival  centre  appears  to 
waver  from  "nue"  to  "frejnissante".  And  there  is,  in  many  french 
poets  ,  a  fatal  proclivity  to  fuss ,  just  a  little  ,  too  much  over  their 
subjects.  Jammes  has  also  the  furniture  tendency,  and  to  it  wc 
owe  several  of  his  quite  charming  poems  .  However  the  strongest 
impression  I  get  today,  reading  his  work  in  inverse  order,  (i.  e. 
"Jean  de  Noarrieu"  before  these  earlier  poems)  is  of  the  very  great 
stylistic  advance  made  in  that  poem  over  his  earlier  work. 

But  he  is  very  successful  in  saying  all  there  was  to  be  said  in:  — 

La    Jeune     Fille 

La  jeune  fille  est  blanche , 

elle  a  des  veines  vertes 

au  poignets ,  dans  ses  manches 

ouvertes  . 
On  ne  sait  pas  pourquoi 
elle  rit .    Par  moment 
_    elle  crie  et  cela 

est  pergant . 
Est-ce  qu'elle  se  doute 
qu'elle  vous  prend  le  coeur 
en  cueillant  sur  la  route 

des  fleurs. 
On  dirait  quelquefois  \ 

qu'elle  comprend  des  choses . 
Pas  tou jours  .    Elle  cause 

tout  bas 
"Oh  !     ma  chere  !     oh  !     la  ,  la  .  .  . 
....  Figure-toi  ....  rrtardi 
•  je  I'ai  vu  .  .  .  .  j'ai  ri"  —  Elle  dit 

comme  qa  . 
Quand  un  jeune  homme  souffre , 
d'abord  elle  se  tait  : 
elle  ne  rit  plus ,  tout 

etcnnee  , 


The    Little    Review  45 

Dans  les  petits  chemins 
elle  remplit  ses  mains 
de  piquants  de  bruyeres 

de  fougeres . 
Elle  est  grande ,  elle  est  blanche , 
elle  a  des  bras  tres  dotix  , 
Elle  est  tres  droite  et  penche 

le  cou . 

The  poem  beginning  : 

Tu  seras  nue  dans  le  salon  aux  vieilles  choses , 
fine  comme  un  fuseau  de  roseau  de  lumiere 
et,  les  jambes  croisees,  aupres  du  feu  rose 
tu  ecouteras  I'hiver 

loses,  perhaps,  or  gains 
little  by  comparison  with  that  of  Heinrich  von  Morungen,  begin- 
ning : 

Oh  weh  ,   soil  mir  nun  nimmermeher 
hell  leuchten  durch  die  Nacht 
noch  weisser  denn  ein  Schnee 
ihr  Leib  so  wohl  gemacht  ? 
Der  trog  die  Augen  mein , 
ich  wahnt ,   es  sollte  sein 
des  lichten  Monden  Schein  , 
da  tagte  es . 

Morungen  had  had  no  occasion  to  say  "Je  pense  a  Jean- 
Jacques",  and  it  is  foolish  to  expect  exactly  the  same  charm  of  a 
twentieth-century  poet  that  we  find  in  a  thirteenth-century  poet. 
Still  it  is  not  necessary  to  be  Jammes^razy  to  feel 

II    va    neiger.... 

II  va  neiger  dans  quelques  jours  .    Je  me  souviens 
de  Tan  dernier.    Je  me  souviens  de  mes  tristesses 
au  coin  du  feu.    Si  Ton  m'avait  demande:  qu'est-ce  ? 
j'aurais  dit:  laissez-moi  tranquille  .    Ce  n'est  rien  . 
J'ai  bien  reflechi ,    I'annee  avant ,    dans  ma  chambre , 
pendant  que  la  neige  lourde  tombait  dehors  . 


46  The    Little    Review 


J'ai  reflechi  pour  rien.    A  present  comme  alors 
je  fume  une  pipe  en  bois  avec  un  bout  d'ambre. 

Ma  vieille  commode  en  chene  sent  toujours  bon. 
Mais  moi  j'etais  bete  parce  que  ces  choses 
ne  pouvaient  pas  changer  et  que  c'est  une  pose 
de  vouloir  chasser  les  choses  que  nous  savons. 

Pourquoi  done  pensons-nous  et  parlons-nous  ?     C'est  drole 
nos  larmes  et  nos  baisers  ,   eux  ,   ne  parlent  pas  , 
et  cependant  nous  les  comprenons ,    et  les  pas 
d'un  ami  sont  plus  doux  que  de  douces  paroles . 


If  I  at  all  rightly  understand  the  words  "vouloir  chasser  les 
choses  que  nous  savons"  they  are  an  excellent  warning  ;  and  their 
pose,  that  of  simplicity  over-done,  has  been  the  end  of  Maeter- 
linck ,  and  of  how  many  other  poets  whose  poetic  machinery  con- 
sists in  so  great  part  of  pretending  to  know  less  than  they  do  ? 

Jammes'  poems  are  well  represented  in  Miss  Lowell's  book  on 
Six  French  Poets,  especially  by  the  well-known  "Amsterdam"  and 
"Madame  de  Warens",  which  are  also  in  Van  Bever  and  Leautaud . 
He  reaches,  as  I  have  said,  his  greatest  verve  in  "Existences"  in  the 
volume  "Le  Triomphe  de  la  Vie". 

I  do  not  wish  to  speak  in  superlatives  ,  but  "Existence",  if  not 
Jammes'  best  work  ,  and  if  not  the  most  important  single  volume 
by  any  living  French  poet ,  either  of  which  it  well  may  be ,  is  at 
any  rate  indispensible  .  It  is  one  of  the  first  half  dozen  books  that 
a  man  wanting  to  know  contemporary  French  work,  must  indulge 
in.  One  can  not  represent  it  in  snippets  .  Still  I  quote  "Le  Poete" 
(his  remarks  at  a  provincial  soiree) : 

C'est  drole  .  .  .  Cette  petite  sera  bete 

comme  ces  gens-la  ,  comme  son  pere  et  sa  mere  . 

Et  cependant  elle  a  une  grace  infinie . 

II  y  a  en  elle  I'lntelHgence  de  la  beaute  . 

C'est  delicieux  ,  son  corsage  qui  n'existe  pas  , 

son  derricre  et  ses  pieds .     Mais  elle  sera  bete 

comme  une  oie  dans  deux  ans  d'ici.     Elle  va  jouer  . 

{Benette  joiie  la  valse  des  elfes) 


The    Little    Review  47 

In  an  earlier  scene  we  have  a  good  example  of  his  rapidity  in 
narrative. 

La     Servante 
II  y  a  quelqu'un  qui  veut  parler  a  monsieur  . 
Le   Poete 
Qui  est-ce  ? 

La  Servante 
Je  ne  sais  pas  . 

Le  PoHe 

Un  homme  ou  une  femme  ? 
La  Servante 
Un  homme  . 

Po^te 
Un  commis-voyageur  ,    \'ous  me  la  foiitez  belle  ! 
La  Servante 
Je  ne  sais  pas  ,    monsieur  . 
PoHe 

Faites  entrer  au  salon  . 
Laissez-moi  achever  d'achever  ces  cerises  . 

{Next  Scene) 

Le  Poete  {dans  son  salon) 

A  qui  ai-je  I'honneur  de  parler  ,    monsieur  ? 

Le  Monsieur 
Monsieur  .    je  suis  le  cousin  de  votre  ancienne  rnaitresse  . 

Le  Poete 
De  quelle  maitresse    ?  Je  ne  vous  connais  pas  . 
Et  puis  qu'est-ce  que  vous  voulez  ? 
Le  Monsieur 

Monsieur  ,    ecoutez-moi  . 
On  m'a  dit  que  vous  etes  bon  . 
PoHe 

Ce  n'est  pas  vrai  . 
La  Pipe  du  Poete 
II  me  bourre  avec  une  telle  agitation 
que  je  ne  vais  jamais  pouvoir  tirer  de  I'air  . 
D'abord.  de  quelle  maitresse  me  parlez-vous  ? 
De  qui  ,  pretendez-vous  ?    Non  .    Vous  pretendez  de  qui 
j'ai  ete  I'amant  ? 


48  The    Little    Review 


,  Le  Monsieur 
De  Neomie  . 
Poete 


De  Neomie  , 


Le  Monsieur 
Oui ,   monsieur . 

Po^te 
Ou  habitez-vous? 
Le  Monsieur 
J'habite  les  environs  de  Mont-de-Marsan  . 

Pocte 
Enfin  que  voulez-vous  ?  ^ 

Le  Monsieur 

Savoir  si  monsieur  serait 
assez  complaisant  pour  me  donner  quelque  chose . 

Po^te 
Et  si  je  ne  vous  donne  le  pas  ,  qu'est-ce  que  vous  ferez? 

Le  Monsieur 
Oh  !     Rien  monsieur  .    Je  ne  vous  ferai  rien  .    Non  .  .  . 

Le  PoHe 

Tenez  ,  voila  dix  francs  ,   et  foutez-moi  la  paix  . 

{Le  monsieur  s'en  va,  puis  le  poete  sort.) 

The  troubles  of  the  Larribeau  family ,  Larribeau  and  the 
bonne ,  the  visit  of  the  "Comtese  de  Pentacosa"  who  is  also  staved 
off  with  ten  francs ,  are  all  worth  quoting  .  The  whole  small  town 
is  "Spoon-Rivered"  with  equal  verve .  "Existence"  was  written 
in  1900.  ' 

MOREAS 

It  must  not  be  thought  that  these  very  "modern"  poets  owe^ 
their  modernity  merely  to  some  magic  chemical  present  in  the  Pari- 
sian milieu.     Moreas  was  born  in  1856,  the  year  after  Verhaeren , 
but  his  Madeline-aux-serpents  might  be  William   Morris  on  Ra- 
punzel  : 

Et  votre  chevelure  comme  des  grappes  d'ombres  , 
Et  ses  bandelettes  h.  vos  tempes , 
Et  la  kabbale  de  vos  yeux  latents ,  — 
Madeline-aux-serpents ,  "Madeline . 


I 


The    Little    Review  49 

Madeline ,    Madeline ,     . 
Pourquoi  vos  levres  a  mon  cou  ,  ah,  pourquoi 
Vos  levres  entre  les  coups  du  hache  du  roi  ! 
Madeline ,    et  les  cordaces  et  les  flutes , 
Les  flutes ,  les  pas  d'amour  ,  les  flutes ,  vous  les  voulutes, 
Helas  !     Madeline  ,   la  fete  ,    Madeline  , 
Ne  berce  plus  les  flots  au  bord  de  Pile , 
Et  mes  bouffons  ne  crevent  plus  des  cerceaux 
Au  bord  de  Tile ,  pauvres  bouffons  . 
Pauvres  bouffons  que  couronne  la  sauge  ! 
Et  mes  litieres  s'effeuillent  aux  ornieres ,  toutes  mes  litieres 

a  grand  pans 
De  nonchaloir ,  Madeline-aux-serpents  .   . 

A  difference  with  Morris  might  have  arisen ,  of  course ,  over  the 
now  long-discussed  question  of  vers-libre ,  but  who  are  we  to  dig  up 
that  Babylon  .  The  school-boys'  papers  of  Toulouse  had  learnt  all 
about  it  before  the  old  gentlemen  of  The  Century  and  Harpers  had 
discovered  that  such  things  exist . 

One  will  not  have  understood  the  French  poetry  of  the  last  half- 
century  unless  one  makes  allowance  for  what  they  call  the-gothic 
as  well  as  the  roman  or  classic  influence.  We  should  probably  call 
it  (their  "gothic")  "mediaevalism",  its  tone  is  that  of  their  XIII 
century  poets ,  Crestien  de  Troies ,  Marie  de  France ,  or  perhaps 
even  D'Orleans  (as  we  noticed  in  the  quotation  from  Viele-Griffin)  . 
Tailhade  in  his  "Hymne  Antique"  displays  what  we  would  call  Swin- 
bumism  (greekish).  Tristan  Klingsor  (a  nom  de  plume  showing 
definite  tendencies)  exhibits  these  things  a  generation  nearer  to  us: 

Dans  son  reve  le  vieux  Prince  de  Touraine 
voit  passer  en  robe  verte  a  longue  traine 
Yeldis  aux  yeux  charmeurs  de  douce  reine  . 


or 
Au  verger  ou  sifflent  les  sylphes  d'automne 
mignonne  Isabelle  est  venue  de  Venise 
et  veut  cueillir  des  cerises  et  des  pommes . 


He  was  writing  rhymed  vers  libre  in  1903  ,  possibly  stimulated 
by  translations  in  a  volume  called  "Poesie  Arabe".    This  book  has 


50  The    Little     Review 


an  extremely  interesting  preface.  I  have  forgotten  the  name  of 
'the  translator  ,  but  in  excusing  the  simplicity  of  Arab  songs  he  says  : 
"The  young  girl  in  Germany  educated  in  philosophy  in  Kant  and 
Haegel  ,  when  love  comes  to  her  ,  at  once  exclaims  'Infinite  !',  and 
allies  her  vocabulary  with  the  transcendental  .  The  little  girl  in 
the  tents  "ne  savait  comparer  fors  que  sa  gourmandise".  In  Kling- 
sor  for  1903  ,   I  find  : 

Croise  tes  jambes  fines  et  nues 
Dans  ton  lit , 

Frotte  de  tes  mignonnes  mains  menues 
Le  bout  de  ton  nez  ; 
Frotte  de  tes  doigts  poteles  et  jolii' , 
Les  deux  violettes  de  tes  yeux  cernes , 
Et  reve . 

Du  haut  du  minaret  arabe  s'echappe 
La  melopee  triste  et  breve  '' 

De  I'indiscret  muezzin 
.  Qui  nasillonne  et  qui  eternue  . 
Et  toi  tu  bailies  comme  une  petite  chatte  , 
Tu  bailies  d'amour  brisee  , 
Et  tu  songes  au  passant  d'Ormuz  ou  d'Endor 
Qui  t'a  quittee  ce  matin 
En  te  laissant  sa  legere  bourse  d'or 
Et  les  marques  bleues  de  ses  baisers . 

Later  he  turns  to  Max  Elkskamp  ,    addressing  him  as  if  he, 
Klingsor  ,    at  last  had  "found  Jesus": 

Je  viens  vers  vous ,   mon  cher  Elkskamp 

Comme  un  pauvre  varlet  de  cceur  et  de  joie 

Vient  vers  le  beau  seigneur  qui  campe  ' 

Sous  sa  tente  d'azur  et  de  soie  .  1 


However  I  believe  Moreas  was  a  real  poet ,  and  ,  being  stub- 
born ,  I  have  still  an  idea  which  got  imbedded  in  my  head  some 
years  ago  :  I  mean  that  Klingsor  is  a  poet.  As  for  the  Elskamp 
phase  and  cult ,  I  do  not  make  much  of  it .  Jean  de  Bosschere  has 
written  a  book  upon  Elskamp  ,  and  he  assures  me  that  Elskamp  is 
a  great  and  important  poet ,    and  someday ,   perhaps ,    I  may  un- 


The    Little    Review  51 

derstand  it.  De  Bosschere  seems  to  me  to  see  or  to  feel  perhaps 
more  keenly  than  anyone  else  certain  phazes  of  modern  mechanical 
ivilization  :  the  ant-like  madness  of  men  bailing  out  little  boats 
they  never  will  sail  in,  shoeing  horses  they  never  will  ride,  making 
chairs  they  never  will  sit  on ,  and  all  with  a  frenzied  intentness  .  I 
may  get  my  conviction  as  much  from  his  drawings  as  from  his 
poems  .    I  am  not  yet  clear  in  my  mind  about  it .    nis  opinion  of 

Max  Elskamp  can  not  be  too  lightly  passed  over  . 

» 

OF     OUR     DECADE 

Early  in  191 2  L' Effort,  since  called  L' Effort  Libre  published  an 
excellent  selection  of  poems  mostly  by  men  born  since  1880:  Arcos, 
Chenneviere  ,  Duhamel ,  Spire  ,  Vildrac  ,  and  Jules  Romain  ,  with 
some  of  Leon  Bazalgette's  translations  from  Whitman  . 

SPIRE 

Andre  Spire  is  well  represented  in  this  collection  by  his  "Dames 
Anciennes".  The  contents  of  his  volumes  are  of  very  uneven  value  : 
Zionist  propaganda ,  addresses ,  and  a  certain  number  of  well- 
written  poems .  , 

Dames   Anciennes 

En  hiver ,  dans  la  chambre  claire , 
Tout  en  haut  de  la  maison  , 
Le  poele  de  faience  blanche , 
Cercle  de  cuivre  ,   provincial ,    doux  , 
Chauffait  mes  doigts  et  mes  livres  . 
Et  le  peuplier  mandarine  , 
Dans  le  soir  d'argent  dedore , 
Dressait ,   en  silence  , '  ses  branches , 
Devant  ma  fenetre  close  . 

—  Mere  ,   le  printemps  aux  doigts  tiedes 

A  souleve  I'espagriolette 

De  mes  fenetres  sans  rideaux  . 

Faites  taire  toutes  ces  voix  qui  montent 

Jusqu'a  ma  table  de  travail . 


52 


The    Little     Review 


—  Ce  sont  les  amies  de  ma  mere 
Et  de  la  mere  de  ton  pere , 
Qui  causent  de  leurs  maris  morts , 
Et  de  leurs  fils  partis .  , 

—  Avec  ,  au  coin  de  leurs  levres  , 
Ces  moustaches  de  cafe  au  lait  ? 
Et  dans  leurs  mains  ces  tartines  ? 
Dans  leurs  bouches  ces  kouguelofs  ? 

—  Ce  sont  des  cavales  anciennes 
Qui  machonnent  le  peu  d'herbe  douce 
Que  Dieu  veut  bien  leur  laisser . 

—  Mere ,   les  maitres  sensibles 
Lachent  les  juments  inutiles 
Dans  les  pres ,   non  dans  men  jardin  ! 

—  Sois  tranquille  ,  men  fils  ,  sois  tranquille  , 
Elles  ne  brouteront  pas  tes  fleurs . 

—  Mere  ,  que  n'y  occupent-elles  leurs  levres , 
Et  leurs  trop  courtes  dents  trop  blanches 
De  porcelaine  trop  fragile  ! 

—  Mon  fils ,    fermez  votre  fenetre  . 
Mon  fils  ,  vous  n'etes  pas  chretien  ! 

VI  L  DRAG 

Vildrac's  "Gloire"  is  in  a  way  commentary  on  Romains'  Ode  ttl 
the  Crowd  ;    a  critique  of  part ,   at  least ,   of  unanimism  . 

II  avait  su  gagner  k  lui 
Beaucoup  d'hommes  ensemble , 


Et  son  bonheur  etait  de  croire , 
Quand  il  avait  quitt^  la  foule , 


The    Little    Review  53 

Que  chacun  des  hommes  I'aimait 
Et  que  sa  presence  durait 
Innombrable  et  puissante  en  eux , 


Or  un  jour  il  en  suivit  un 

Qui  retournait  chez  soi ,    tout  seul , 

Et  il  vit  son  regard  s'eteindre 

Des  qu'il  fut  un  peu  loin  des  autres 


(The  full  text  of  this  appeared  in  Poetry  Aug.  1913).  Vildrac's 
AG  best-known  poems  are  "Une  Auberge"  and  "Visite";  the  first  a 
Drlorn  scene  .  not  too  unlike  a  Van  Gogh  ,  though  not  done  with 
an  Gogh's  vigour  . 

C'est  seulement  parce  qu'on  a  soif  qu'on  entre'y  boire; 
C'est  parce  qu'on  se  sent  tomber  qu'on  va  s'y  asseoir . 
On  n'y  est  jamais  a  la  fois  qu'un  ou  deux 
Et  Ton  n'est  pas  force  d'y  raconter  son  histoire  . 


Celui  aui  entre 


mange  lentement  son  pain 
Parce  que  ses  dents  sont  usees; 
Et  il  boit  avec  beaucoup  de  mal 
Parce  qu'il  a  de  peine  plein  sa  gorge  . 

Quand  il  a  fini , 
II  hesite ,   puis  timide. 
Va  s'asseoir  un  peu 
A  cote  du  feu  . 

Ses  mains  crevassees  epousent 

Les  bosselures  dures  de  ses  genoux . 

'hen  of  the  other  man  in  the  story  : 

"qui  n'etait  pas  des  notres 

"Mais  comme  il  avait  Pair  cependant  d'etre  des  notres!" 


54  The    Little    Review 


The  story  or  incident  in  "Visile"  is  that  of  a  man  stirring  himi 
self  out  of  his  evening  comfort  to  visit  some  pathetic  dull  friends 


Ces  gens  helas  ,  ne  croyaient  pas 

Qu'il  fut  venu  a  I'improviste 

Si  tard  .    de  si  loin  ,   par  la  neige  .  .  . 

Et  ils  attendaient  I'un  et  1 'autre 

Que  brusquement  et  d'un  haleine  il  exposat 

La  grave  raison  de  sa  venue  . 

Only  when  he  gets  up  to  go,  "ils  oserent  comprendre" 
II  leur  promit  de  revenir . 


Mais  avant  de  gagner  la  porte 

II  fixa  bien  dans  sa  memoire 

Le  lieu  ou  s'abritait  leur  vie  . 

II  regarda  bien  chaque  objet 

Et  puis  aussi  I'homme  et  la  femme , 

Tant  il  craignait  au  fond  de  lui 

De  ne  plus  jamais  revenir  . 

The  relation  of  Vildrac's  verse  narratives  to  the  short  story 
form  is  most  interesting . 

JULES    ROMAINS 

The  reader  who  has  gone  through  Spire,  Romains,  and  Vildrac 
will  have  a  fair  idea  of  the  poetry  written  by  this  group  of  men.  Ro- 
mains has  always  seemed  to  me,  and  is  I  think  generally  recognizee 
as,  the  nerve-centre,  the  dynamic  centre  of  the  group. 

Les  marchands  sont  assis  aux  portes  des  boutiques;  'I 

Ils  regardent.    Les  toits  joignent  la  rue  au  ciel 
Et  les  paves  semblent  feconds  sous  le  soleil 

Comme  un  champ  de  mais . 
Les  marchands  ont  laisse  dormir  pres  du  comptoir 
Le  desir  de  gagner  qui  travaille  des  I'aube. 


The    Little    Review  55 

On  dirait  que,  malgre  leur  ame  habituelle , 

line  autre  ame  s'avance  et  vient  au  seuil  d'eux-memes 

Comme  ils  viennent  au  seuil  de  leurs  boutiques  noires  . 

The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  we  are  regaining  for  cities  a  little 
*i  what  savage  man  has  for  the  forest.  We  live  by  instinct  ;  re- 
:eive  news  by  instinct;  have  conquered  machinery  as  primitive  man 
>nquered  the  jungle.  Romains  feels  this,  though  his  phrases  may 
"not  be  ours.  Wyndham  Lewis  on  giants  is  nearer  Romains  than 
anything  else  in  English,  but  vorticism  is,  in  the  realm  of  biology, 
the  hypothesis  of  the  dominant  cell.  Lewis  on  giants  comes  perhaps 
nearer  Romains  than  did  the  original  talks  about  the  Vortex.  There 
is  in  inferior  minds  a  passion  for  unity,  that  is  for  a  confusion  and 
melting  together  of  things  which  a  good  mind  will  want  kept  dis- 
tinct. Absolutely  uninformed  English  criticism  has  treated  Unani- 
niism  as  if  it  were  a  vague  general  propaganda,  and  this  criticism 
has  cited  some  of  our  worst  and  stupidest  versifiers  as  a  correspond- 
ing manifestation  in  England.  One  can  only  account  for  such  error 
by  the  very  plausible  hypothesis  that  the  erring  critics  have  not  read 
"Puissances  de  Paris". 

Romains  is  not  to  be  understood  by  extract  and  fragments.  He 
has  felt  this  general  replunge  of  mind  into  instinct,  or  this  develop- 
ment of  instinct  to  cope  with  a  metropolis,  and  with  metropolitan 
conditions;  in  so  far  as  he  has  expressed  the  emotions  of  this  con- 
sciousness he  is  poet;  he  has,  aside  from  that,  tried  to  formulate 
this  new  consciousness,  and  in  so  far  as  such  formulation  is  dogmatic, 
debatable,  intellectual,  hypothetical,  he  is  open  to  argument  and  dis- 
pute; that  is  to  say  he  is  philosopher,  and  his  philosophy  is  definite 
and  defined.  Vildrac's  statement  "II  a  change  la  pathetique"  is 
perfectly  true.  Many  people  will  prefer  the  traditional  and  familiar 
and  recognizable  poetry  of  writers  like  Klingsor.  I  am  not  dictating 
peoples'  likes  and  dislikes.  Romains  has  made  a  new  kind  of  poetry. 
Since  the  scrapping  of  the  Aquinian,  Dantescan  system,  he  is  per- 
haps the  first  person  who  had  dared  put  up  so  definite  a  philosophi- 
cal frame-work  for  his  emotions.  One  can  neglect  the  protestant 
systems,  fall  of  the  angels,  hell  goverened  by  parliament,  on  the  one 
hand,  and  the  operatic  Mephistopheles  on  the  other;  they  are  not 
for  serious  people. 

I  do  not  mean,  by  this,  that  I  agree  with  Jules  Romains  ;  I  am 
prepared  to  go  no  further  than  my  opening  sentence  of  this  section, 
concerning  our  growing,  or  returning,  or  perhaps  only  newly-noticed, 


i 


s6  The    Little    Review 


sensitization  to  crowd  feeling;    to  the  metropolis  and  its  peculiar 
sensations.    Turn  to  Romains: 

Je  croyais  les  murs  de  ma  chambre  impermeables . 

Or  ils  laissent  passer  une  tiede  briiine 

Qui  s'epaissit  et  qui  m'empeche  de  me  voir, 

Le  papier  a  fleurs  bleus  lui  cede.     II  fait  le  bruit 

Du  sable  et  du  cresspn  qu'une  source  traverse. 

L'air  qui  touche  mes  nerfs  est  extremement  lourd. 

Ce  n'est  pas  comme  avant  le  pur  milieu  de  vie 

Ou  montait  de  la  solitude  sublimee  .  » 

V'oila  que  par  osmose 

Toute  I'immensite  d'alentour  le  sature. 


II  charge  mes  poumons ,  il  empoisse  les  choses , 
II  separe  mon  corps  des  meubles  familiars , 


Les  forces  du  dehors  s'enroulent  k  mes  mains . 

In  "Puissances  de  Paris"  he  states  that  there  are  beings  more 
"real  than  individual".  I  can  not  of  course  go  into  detail  here,  I  can 
but  touch  upon  salients. 

Rien  ne  cesse  d'etre  interieur . 
La  rue  est  plus  intime  a  cause  de  la  brume . 
Lines  like  Romains',  so  well  packed  with  thought,  so  careful  that 
you  will  get  the  idea  ,  can  not  be  poured  out  by  the  bushel  like  those 
of  contemporary  rhetoricians,  like  those  of  Claudel  and  Fort.  The 
best  poetry  has  always  a  content,  it  may  not  be  an  intellectual  con- 
tent; in  Romains  the  intellectual  statement  is  necessary  to  keep  the 
new  emotional  content  coherent. 

The  opposite  of  Lewis's  giant  appears  in: 

Je  suis  I'esclave  heureux  des  hommes  dont  I'haleine 
Flotte  ici.    Leur  vouloir  s'ecoule  dans  mes  nerfs  ; 
Ce  qui  est  moi  commence  a  fondre. 


The    Little    Review  57 

This  statement  has  the  perfectly  simple  order  of  words.  It  is 
the  simple  statement  of  a  man  saying  things  for  the  first  time,  whose 
chief  concern  is  that  he  shall  speak  clearly.  His  work  is  perhaps 
the  fullest  statement  of  the  poetic  consciousness  of  our  time,  or  the 
scope  of  that  consciousness.  I  am  not  saying  he  is  the  most  poignant 
poet;  simply  that  in  him  we  have  the  fullest  poetic  exposition  . 

You  can  get  the  feel  of  La  Forgue  or  even  of  Corbiere  from  a 
few  poems;  Romains  is  a  subject  for  study.  I  do  not  say  this  as 
praise,  I  am  simply  trying  to  define  him.  His  "Un  fitre  en  Marche" 
is  the  narrative  of  a  girls'  school,  of  the  ''crocodile"  or  procession 
going  out  for  its  orderly  walk,  its  collective  sensations  and  adven- 
tures, 

Troups  and  herds  appear  in  his  earlier  work: 

Le  troupeau  marche ,  avec  ses  chiens  et  son  berger, 
II  a  peur.     Qk  et  la  des  reverberes  briilent , 
II  tremble  d'etre  poursuivi  par  les  etoiles  . 


La  foule  traine  une  ecume  d'ombrelles  blanches 


La  grande  ville  s'evapore , 
Et  pleut  k  verse  sur  la  plaine 
Qu'elle  sature  . 

His  style  is  not  a  "model",  it  has  the  freshness  of  grass,  not  of 
new  furniture  polish.  In  his  v/ork  many  nouns  meet  their  verbs  for 
the  first  time,  as,  perhaps,  in  the  last  lines  above  quoted.  He  needs, 
as  a  rule,  about  a  hundred  pages  to  turn  round  in.  One  can  not 
give  these  poems  in  quotation;  one  wants  about  five  volumes  of 
Romains.  In  so  far  as  I  am  writing  "criticism",  I  must  say  that  his 
prose  is  just  as  interesting  as  his  verse.  BuLthen  his  verse  is  just 
as  interesting  as  his  prose.  Part  of  his  method  is  to  show  his  sub 
ject  in  a  series  of  successive  phases,  thus  in  L'Individu  : 


Je  suis  un  habitant  de  ma  ville ,   un  de  ceux 
Qui  s'assoient  au  theatre  et  qui  vont  par  les  rues 


VI 

Je  cesse  lentement  d'etre  moi.     Ma  personne 


S8  The    Little    Review 


Semble  s'aneantir  chaque  jour  un  peu  plus 
C'est  a  peine  si  je  Ic  sens  et  m'en  etonne  . 

His  poetry  is  not  of  single  and  startling  emotions  ,  but  —  for 
better  or  worse  —  of  progressive  states  of  consciousness.  It  is  as 
useless  for  the  disciple  to  try  and  imitate  Romains.  without  having 
as  much  thought  of  his  own,  as  it  is  for  the  tyro  in  words  to  try  imi- 
tations of  Jules  Laforgue.  The  limitation  of  Romains'  work,  as 
of  a  deal  of  Browning's,  is  that,  having  once  understood  it,  one 
may  not  need  or  care  to  reread  it.  This  restriction  applies  also. 
in  a  wholly  different  way  .  to  "Endymion";  having  once  filled  the 
mind  with  Keats'  colour,  or  the  beauty  of  things  described,  one  gets 
no  new  thrill  from  the  re-reading  of  them  in  not  very  well-written 
verse.  This  limitation  applies  to  all  poetry  that  is  not  implicit  in  its 
OAvn  medium,  that  is,  which  is  not  indissolubly  bound  in  with  the  ac- 
tual words,  word  music,  the  fineness  and  firmness  of  the  actual 
writing  ,   as  in  Villon,  or  in  "CoUis  O  Heliconii". 

But  one  can  not  leave  Romains  unread  .  His  interest  is  more 
than  a  prose  interest ,  he  has  verse  technique,  rhyme,  terminaf  sy- 
zogy  ,  but  that  is  not  what  I  mean.    He  is  poetry  in  : 

On  ne  m'a  pas  donne  de  lettres ,  ces  jours-ci  ; 
Personne  n'a  songe  ,    dans  la  ville  .   a  m'ecrire  , 
Oh  !     je  n'esperais  rien  ;    je  sais  vivre  et  penser 
Tout  seul ,   et  mon  esprit  ,  pour  faire  une  flambee  , 
N'attend  pas  qu'on  lui  jette  une  feuille  noircie  . 
Mais  je  sens  qu'il  me  manque  un  plaisir  familier  , 
J'ai  du  bonheur  aux  mains  quand  j'ouvre  une  envelof^e  ; 


But  such  statements  as  : 

Tentation 

Je  me  plais  beaucoup  trop  a  rester  dans  les  gares  ; 
.Accoudo  sur  le  bois  anguleux  dcs  barrieres  , 
Je  regarde  les  trains  s'emplir  de  voyageurs . 


and  : 


Mon  esprit  solitaire  est  une  goutte  d'huile 


The    Little    Review  59 

Sur  la  pensee  et  sur  le  songe  de  la  ville 

Qui  me  laissent  flotter  et  ne  m'absorbent  pas  . 


Duld  not  be  important  unless  they  were  followed  by  exposition . 
le  point  is  that  they  are  followed  by  exposition ,  to  which  they 
rm  a  necessary  introduction  ,  defining  Romains'  angle  of  attack  ; 
kI  as  a  result  the  force  of  Romains  is  cumulative  .  His  early 
)oks  gather  meaning  as  one  reads  through  the  later  ones  . 

And  I  think  if  one  opens  him  almost  anywhere  one  can  discern 
ie  authentic  accent  of  a  man  saying  something,  not  the  desultory 
^pagination  of  rehash  . 

Charles  Vildrac  is  an  interesting  companion  figure  to  his  bril- 
tnt  friend  Romains  .  He  conserves  himself ,  he  is  never  carried 
way  by  Romains'  theories  .  He  admires  ,  differs  ,  and  occasionally 
)rmulates  a  corrective  or  corollary  as  in  "Gloire". 

Compare  this  poem  with  Romains'  "Ode  to  the  Crowd  Here 
resent"  and  you  get  the  two  angles  of  vision  . 

Henry  Spies  ,  a  Genevan  lawyer,  has  written  an  interesting  series 
f  sketches  of  the  court-room.  He  is  a  more  or  less  isolated  figure. 
have  seen  amusing  and  indecorous  poems  by  George  Fourest,  but 
.  is  quite  probable  that  they  amuse  because  one  is  unfamiliar  with 
iieir  genre  ;  still  "La  Blonde  Negresse"  (the  heroine  of  his  title), 
is  satire  of  the  symbolo-rhapsodicoes  in  the  series  of  poems  about 
er  :  "La  negresse  blonde  ,  la  blonde  negresse",  gathering  into  its 
ound  all  the  swish  and  woggle  of  the  sound-over-sensists  ;  the 
'oem  on  the  beautiful  blue-behinded  baboon  ;  that  on  the  gentle- 
lan  "qui  ne  craignait  ni  la  verole  ni  dieu";  "Les  pianos  du  Casino  au 
lord  de  la  mer"  (Lafcrgue  plus  the  four-hour  touch)  are  an  egregious 
nd  diverting  guffaw  .  (I  do  not  think  the  book  is  available  to  the 
mbiic  .  J.  G.  Fletcher  once  lent  me  a  copy  ,  but  the  edition  was 
limited  and  the  work  seems  rather  unkno\vn). 

Romains  is  my  chief  concern  .  I  can  not  give  a  full  exposition 
)f  Unanimism  on,  a  page  or  two  .  Among  all  the  younger  writers 
md  groups  in  Paris,  the  group  centering  in  Romains  is  the  only  one 
vhich  seems  to  me  any  where  nearly  so  energized  as  the  Blast  group 
n  London  ;  the  only  group  in  which  the  writers  for  Blast  can  be 
expected  to  take  very  much  interest . 

PvOmains  in  the  flesh  does  not  seem  so  energetic  as  Lewis  in  the 
iesh  ,  but  then  I  have  seen  Romains  only  once  and  I  am  well  ac- 
quainted with  Lewis  .     Romains  is,  in  his  writing,  more  placid  ,  the 


6o  The    Little    Review 


thought  seems  more  passive ,  less  impetuous  .  As  for  those  who  w: 
not  have  Lewis  "at  any  price",  there  remains  to  them  no  othi 
course  than  the  acceptance  of  Remains ,  for  these  two  men  hold  tl 
two  tenable  positions:   the  Mountain  and  the  Multitude  . 

It  might  be  fairer  to  Romains  to  say  simply  he  has  choser 
or  specialized  in,  the  collected  multitude  as  a  subject  matter ,  ar 
that  he  is  quite  well  on  a  mountain  of  his  own. 

My  general  conclusions,  redoing  and  reviewing  this  perk 
of  French  poetry  ,  are  (after  my  paw-over  of  some  sixty  new  volume 4 
as  mentioned,  and  after  re-reading  most  of  what  I  had  read  befon 
I.,  as  stated  in  my  opening  ,  that  mediocre  pwetry  is  about  the  san 
in  all  countries  ;  that  France  has  as  much  drivel ,  gas  ,  mush  ,  etc 
poured  into  verse  ,  as  has  any  other  nation  . 

2.  That  it  is  impossible"  to  make  a  silk  purse  out  of  a  sow 
ear",  or  poetry  out  of  nothing  ;  that  all  attempts  to  "expand" 
subject  into  poetry  are  futile  ,  fundamentally  ;  that  the  subje 
matter  must  be  coterminous  with  the  expression  .  Tasso  ,  Spensei 
Ariosto  ,  prose-poems  ,  diffuse  forms  of  all  sorts  are  all  a  preciositj 
a  parlour-game,  and  dilutations  go  to  the  scrap  heap . 

3.  That  Corbiere  ,  Rimbaud ,  Laforgue  are  permanent  ;  th). 
probably  some  of  DeGourmont's  and  Tailhade's  poems  are  pe* 
manent ,  or  at  least  reasonably  durable  ;  that  Romains  is  indispei 
sible,  for  the  present  at  any  rate  ;  that  people  who  say  they  "don 
like  French  poetry"  are  possibly  matoids  ,  and  certainly  ignorant  • 
the  scope  and  variety  of  French  work  .  In  the  same  way  peop^ 
are  ignorant  of  the  qualities  of  French  people  ;  ignorant  that 
they  do  not  feel  at  home  in  Amiens  (as  I  do  not),  there  are  othi 
races  in  France  ;  in  the  Charente  if  you  walk  across  country  yc 
meet  people  exactly  like  the  nicest  people  you  can  meet  in  ti* 
American  country  and  t/iey  are  not  "foreign". 

All  France  is  not  to  be  found  in  Paris  .  The  adjective  "French 
is  current  in  America  with  a  dozen  erroneous  or  stupid  connotationsi 
If  it  means  ,  as  it  did  in  the  mouth  of  my  contemporary,"  talcui 
powder"  and  surface  neatness  ,  the  selection  of  poems  I  have  give 
here  would  almost  show  the  need  of,  or  at  least  a  reason  for  Freno 
Parnassianism  ;  for  it  shows  the  French  poets  violent ,  whetht 
with  the  violent  words  of  Corbiere  ,  or  the  quiet  violence  of  the  iroD 
in  Laforgue  ,  the  sudden  annihilations  of  his  "turn-back"  on  th 
subject  .  People  forget  that  the  incision  of  Voltaire  is  no  more  all  ( 
French  Literature  than  is  the  robustczca  of  Brantome  .  (Burton 
the  "Anatomy"  is  our  only  writer  who  can  match  him.)  The 
forget  the  two  distinct  finenesses  of  the  latin  French  and  of  til 


The    Little    Review 


[•ench  "gothic",  that  is  of  the  eighteenth  century ,  of  Bernard 
"  one  take  a  writer  of  no  great  importance  to  illustrate  a  definite 
liality),  or  of  D 'Orleans  and  of  Froissart  in  verse  .  From  this  deli- 
:y ,  if  they  can  not  be  doing  with  it ,  they  may  turn  easily  to 
llion  or  Basselin  ,  Only  a  general  distaste  for  literature  can  be  oper- 
live  against  all  of  these  writers . 


Footnote:    Given  time,  we  shall  in  later  numbers  deal  with  Peguy,  De 
schere,   and  give   ampler  studies  of  Remains,   Tailhade   and  other  modern 
teDch  writers. 

The    Chicago    Grand    Opera 
Invades     New    York 
Margaret  Anderson 

The  critics  are  never  more  pathetic  than  when  they  praise  things 
hich  really  deserve  praise.  They  did  their  best  about  the  Chicago 
)pera  Company,  but  the  result  w^as  only  a  reiteration  of  their  stock 
uperlative3  and  an  intensification  of  their  helplessness  before  a  new 
motion. 

The  new  emotion  was  caused  by  Mary  Garden.  I  am  prepared 
defend  this"  statement  with  intelligent  arguments. 
First,  I  am  not  interested  in  discussions  of  the  relative  merits 
f  the  Metropolitan  and  the  Chicago  Opera.  I  am  not  interested  in 
I!  the  talk  of  competition  and  opera  war,  and  the  debates  as  to 
.hether  an  outside  opera  organization  has  any  "right"  to  invade 
Cew  York.    Anything  that  is  good  has  a  right  to  go  where  it  will. 

In  the  second  place,  there  is  really  no  question  of  competition: 
)ne  organization  is  "interesting"  and  the  other  is  not.  The  Met- 
opolitan  is  now  distinguished  chiefly  for  the  fact  that  it  is  an  insti- 
tution: it  is  therefore  dead,  from  the  only  point|  of  view  that  mat- 
ers. The  Chicago  Opera  Company  has  achieved  institutionalism  only 
n  so  far  as  it  clings  to  antediluvian  scenery  and  to  the  strange  idea 
hat  a  prima  donna  with  intelligence  is  still  subject  to  the  traditional 
uanagerial  dictation. 

The  Metropolitan  has  Caruso,  who  sings  "beautifully"  and  who 
lets  —  well,  to  be  exact,  who  acts  chiefly  like  a  fool;  it  has  Farrar, 
who  at  her  best  is  no  better  than  a  dozen  Broadway  actresses  and  at 
her  worst  gives  a  sort  of  bouncing  servant-girl  touch  to  her 
roles.      The    Chicago    company     has    Galli-Curci,    to   match    Caruso, 


62     •  T  he  Little  Re  view 


ti 
r' 

r 
ipe 


aiul,     speaking     rouylily,     Vix     tu     iiialcli     Farrar;    it     has     Kaisa 
match   Metzanaur,   etc.,   etc.     The   good   singers   on   both   sides,  w! 
are   good   singers   and   nothing  more   than   that,   probably  match 
rather  evenly.     The   point   worth   talking  about   is   that   the   Chica> 
company   has   two   good   singers  who  are   in    intellectual  and   artis 
sympathy  with  opera  as  it  is  conceived   today  and  as  it  will  be  c 
veloped    tomorrow.     They   are    Lucien    Muratore   and    Mary   Gard« 
The    critics    have    not    concerned    themselves    with    these    major    d 
criminations.     They  have  used  the  word  "artist",  of  course,  but  th 
have   used    it    for    Galli-Curci,    Caruso,    Melba,    Farrar,    etc.,    and 
robbed  their  remarks  of  any  semblance  of  meaning. 

I  am  not  particularly  interested  in  vocal  organs.  I  am  not  int< 
ested  in  a  certain  quality  of  youth  or  dash  or  prettiness  which  t 
public  describes  as  "personality".  Tlie  worst  definition  of  beauty 
ever  heard  was  given  by  a  lecturer  in  Chicago.  He  said  that  if  y 
should  gather  a  liundred  people  into  a  room  and  ask  another  hu 
dred  to  look  at  them,  the  second  hundred  would  come  to  some  cO; 
nion  agreement  as  to  which  ones  were  ugly  and  which  ones  could 
called  beautiful.  In  other  words,  there  are  some  people  whom  . 
the  world  calls  beautiful,  and  this  is  a  test  before  which  all  intellecti 
curiosity  is  supposed  to  come  to  ^  full  stop.  Well,  this  is  the  w 
the  world  feels  about  voices.  A  conventionally  beautiful  voice 
exactly  like  a  conventionally  lieautiful  girl.  The  world  never  realiz 
that  the  latter  gives  no  real  pleasure  to  a  fastidious  mind.  The  woi 
wants  to  listen  to  one  kind  of  voice,  —  the  kind  that  is  recogniz 
'■l)y  all  the  world"  as  sweet,  pure,  true,  veil-trained,  etc.,  etc.  Tl 
is  the  standard  by  which  the  singers  of  both  companies  are  chost 
This  is  the  unthinkable  standard  by  which  the  critics  and  the  pub 
say  that  Mary  Garden  cannot  sing. 

-  It    is    perfectly    patent    that    Muratore    has    no    such    standarc 
His  voice  is  richer  than  Caruso's  and  he  not  only  tries  to  show  th 
he  is  conscious  of  the  dramas  in  which  he  acts,  but  he  knows  how 
show  it.    In  the  case  of  Mary  Garden  you  have  all  this  plus  the  ne 
emotion  of  which  I  spoke.     How  does  great  singing  or  great  actii  jj' 
measure  up  beside  this?     As  accomplishment,  merely.     The  intere 
of    Mary    Garden,   as    I    conceive   it,   is   of   a    quality   on   which   gre 
legends  will  be  made  a  hundred  years  from  now.     That  is  why  I  s« 
a    "new"    emotion:    these    things    do    not    happen    several    times    in 
generation.     The   last   generation    had    Bernhardt;   we   have   not  be< 
shut  off  from  that  greatness,  l)ut  we  have  Mary  Garden  too.     We  wi 
jirobably  have  no  other.     We  have  urged  our  younger  contemporari* 
to  see  her,  "lest  there  grow  in  them  a  bitterness  and  deep  ground  i 
reproach  that   they  had  not  known  so  fair  a  thing  before  that  ho» 


The    Little    Review  63 


en  they  must  be  cut  oil  from  it  forever."  They  have  seen  her, 
i  not  known  what  we  were  talking  about.  Well,  M  iry  Garden  is 
ot  for  backfisch.  The  opera  management  shows  its  ignorance  of 
er  "place  in  history"  b}'  not  allowing  her  a  complete  autocracy  in 
egard  to  her  operas  ;  the  press  shows  its  ignorance  by  talking  ex- 
lusively  of  the  improvement  in  her  voice,  her  remarkable  acting,  and 
he  fact  that  she  has  a  great  deal  of  "pep"  this  year  (I  shudder  to 
epeat  the  stufif);  the  public  shows  its  ignorance  (that  portion  of  it 
hat  recognizes  her  at  all)  by  confusing  the  greatness  of  her  "Thais" 
irith  the  fact  that  that  lovely  pagan  somehow  got  mixed  up  with  the 
isciating  doctrines  of  Christianity. 

The  entire  critical  force  of  the  country  has  never  hinted  that 
Vlary  Garden  is  the  reason  for  the  Chicago  Opera  being  dififerent  and 
nteresting. 

A     Letter 

jh 

It  is  no  part  of  my  intention  to  start  an  argument  with  you  or 
ivith  any  one  over  the  art  of  Mary  Garden.  I  hate  controversy.  It 
s  a  social  vice.  This  note  then  is  not  to  answer  you  but  to  show 
you  why  discussion  is  futile.  We  do  not  exist  in  the  same  world. 
Your  concern  is  with  education  and  the  drawing-room,  mine  with 
creation,   life  and   the  individual. 

Your  slogan  is  moderation  in  all  things.  This  is  on  intrusion 
on  your  part.  You  might  leave  moderation  to  the  voluptuary.  When 
I  come  into  such  close  contact  with  the  miserly  disposition  of  the  pu- 
ritan race,  the  indisposition  or  inability  to  spend  even  a  gesture  of 
emotion,  the  tightness  of  natures  that  can  never  praise  or  curse 
splendidly  or  freely,  —  the  impossibility  of  discussing  any  subject 
becomes  to  me  appaling,  and  I  have  no  other  interest  than  to  strike 
through  the  subject  to  the  tensely  fundamental  differences  in  people. 

You  greet  any  spoken  or  written  statement  or  observation  by  me 
with  either  a  sigh  or  a  laugh.  "You  are  so  extravagant,  so  superla- 
tive, so  violent".  This  generosity  of  my  nature  is  well  known  to  me; 
so  much  so  that  I  pity  all  who'have  come  under  it  either  for  approval 
or  disdain.  And  you  are  always  sure  that  it  has  some  personal  direc- 
tion. Why  not  admit  your  miserly  dealings  with  these  matters,  and 
grant  that  my  "outbursts"  may  be  iinpersonal,  even  though  you  your- 
self suffei-  under  the  curse  of  the  personal-on-look  in  all  things. 

I  am  rather  hopeless  about  this,  though.  Even  in  our  last  dis- 
cussion you  took  some  of  my  remarks  to  yourself  and  talked  vaguely 
about  friendship  and  my  offending  your  religion.  I  had  given  you  no 
friendship.     Friendship  does  not  lie  in  my  experience.     I  had  not  said 


64  T/ie    Little    Review 


more  against  your  religion  than  to  imply  that  the  Christian  vir^  ■ 
could  not  stand  the  wear  and  tear  of  my  nature.  You  have  knowr 
me  well  enough  to  know  that  I  should  always  have  respected  youi 
religion  with  silence,  if  silence  is  all  the  respect  that  you  demand 
But  here  was  your  religion  influencing  your  attitude  towa.d  Art 
and  therefore  the  discussion.  You  were  expounding  Art:  I  wjB 
not  attacking  Christian  Science. 

You  pretend  to  an  interest  in  and  a  love  for  the  arts.  Yet  yot 
have  never  given  an  hour  of  your  time  in  your  whole  life  to  th< 
study  of  the  arts.  You  have  read  neither  criticism  nor  theories  o: 
Art.  But  you  "love"  Art  and  yet  you  have  not  enough  respect  foi 
it  to  protect  it  from  your  own  ignorance.  You  "love"  it  and  you  trj 
to  make  a  utility  of  it,  to  apply  it  to  your  living  and  your  system  a 
education  with  no  more  thought  than  if  you  were  applying  polisl 
to  your  shoes,  and  for  the  same  effect.  And  /  have  insulted  yom 
intelligence  because  I  refuse  to  discuss  Art  in  your  terms!  I  than! 
the  gods  there  are  places  where  insults  may  not  reach. 

If  I  must  say  what  I  think  about  Christian  Science:  it  is  the 
greatest  achievement  of  mediocrity  and  white  corpuscles  of  the  age 
and  a  very  necessary  adjunct  to  our  great  American  Index  Filinj 
System.  That  is  all.  You  recognize  as  Art  only  those  works  of  ar 
or  so-called  works  of  art  that  have  been  considered  in  good  taste,  0 
as  innocuous  enough  to  be  countenanced  in  all  educational  instit^ 
tions.  You  know  nothing  of  primitive,  ancient,  or  modern  art.  Y^ 
laugh  the  same  laugh  at  an  African  negro  sculpture  and  at  a  Brancu* 
If  you  admit  your  complete  blindness  to  every  form  of  modern  af 
including  painting,  music,  poetry,  what,  may  I  ask,  gives  you  yottt 
sight  when  you  come  to  the  drama  as  presented  by  Mary  Garden?  s 

You  say  that  she  is  no  actress,  that  she  has  no  psychology,  nc 
intelligence,  that  she  does  not  create  real  characters  but  movei' 
through  an  opera  in  a  series  of  beautiful  poses  like  the  figures  in  t 
dance.  And  you  think  this  is  damning  what  she  does!  You  at(^ 
speaking  of  "Monna  Vanna"  and  this  is  your  criticism  because  tl^: 
_jeunnes  filles  sitting  beside  you  didn't  know,  when  it  was  oveft 
»vhethcr  Monna  Vanna  was  a  "pure,  woman"  or  not.  Can  such  I 
lack — the  lack  of  living,  the  lack  of  imagination  about  life  —  measure 
the   psychology,    the    intelligence,    the   art   of   Mary    Garden? 

You  say  you  can  see  that  she  is  very  beautiful.  She  is  not.  Nol 
with  that  limited  personal  beauty  you  are  praising.  But  there  is  alt 
over-beauty  which  she  creates  out  of  herself  like  the  beauty  created 
out  of  a  poem  or  a  picture  or  a  piece  of  sculpture  by  itself  if  it  poJ!! 
sesses  the  eternal  quality  of  Art.  I  should  have  been  slightly  sur» 
prised  to  find  you  granting  her  beauty  if  I   did  not  know  that  youf 


09 

i 


J 


The   Little    Review  65 


find  always  trusts  its  physical  sight  when  it  judges  beauty  as  it 
rusts  its  taste  when  it  judges  Art. 
-  While  I  knew,  before  your  criticism,  what  you  would  do  about 
ler  Art  I  must  confess  I  had  a  curiosity  about  what  she  herself 
would  do  to  you.  Whether  the  timbre  of  her  gerat  existence  would 
■each  you. 

You  say  you  cannot  accept  anything  that  your  reason  will  not 
accept,  that  does  not  meet  standards  of  taste  and  does  not  measure 
with  contemporary  achievement.  By  this  statement  you  have  cut 
yourself  off  forever  from  the  life  of  the  emotions. 

In  creation  of  this  kind  the  feelings  can  be  the  only  judge.  The 
audience  can  no  longer  rely  upon  standards:  it  must  learn  slowly 
a  new  telegraphy  of  Art.  All  comparison  with  contemporary  achieve- 
ment is  drown  in  this  element  of  the  eternal  quality.  In  creation  of 
this  kind  all  apparent  and  unimportant  details,  all  questions  of  opera 
singing  or  stage  acting  must  go  down  before  the  aesthetic  aim  of  the 
woman.  The  exaggerations,  the  liberties,  the  distortions,  —  all  the 
flexibility  about  which  you  have  so  many  reservations,  are  in- 
dications of  great  creation:  the  main  com'position  is  as  steady  and 
sustained  as  a  flame  in  a  windless  place. 


SOLVE  YOUR  FOOD  PROBLEM 

by  Eating  at  the  Strunsky  Restaurants 

Good  cooking — pleasant  envirnments — 

liberal  portions — moderate  prices. 

"THE  WASHINGTON      "THE  STUYVESANT 
SQUARE  RESTAURANT"   SQUARE  RESTAURANT" 

19  West  Eighth  Street.  201    Second  Ave. 

"THREE  STEPS  DOWN"  "THE    STUYVESANT 

19  West  Eighth  Street.  CAFETERIA" 

Between   5th    &  6th    Avenue,  201    Second   Avenue, 

(Down  Stairs). 

CAFETERIA  Between    12th    &    13th    Street. 
19  West  Eighth  Street. 

(Upstairs)  Phone   Stuyvesant  3379- 

Phone  Stuyvesant  1880  Open    for"  lunch,    dinner    and 
Open  for  lunch  and  dinner.  evenings. 


JAMES  JOYCE  I 

in    "THE    LITTLE    REVIEW" 

I  have  just  received  the  first  three  instalments 
of  James  Joyce's  new  novel  which  is  to  run 
serially  in  The  Little  Review,  beginning  with 
the  next  number. 

It  is  called  "Ulysses". 

It  carries  on  the  story  of  Stephan  Dedalus,  the 
central  figure  in  "A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as 
a  Young  Man". 

It  is,  I  believe,  even  better  than  the  "Portrait". 

So  far  it  has  been  read  by  only  one  critic  of 
international  reputation.  He  says:  "It  is  cer- 
tainly worth  running  a  magazine  if  one  can  get 
stuff  like  this  to  put  in  it.  Compression,  in- 
tensity. It  looks  to  me  rather  better  than 
Flaubert". 

This  announcement  means  that  we  are  about 
to  publish  a  prose  masterpiece. 


The  March  mimber  will  also  contain: 

Imaginary  Letters,  by  Wyudham  Lewis 
Reproductions  of  drawings  by  modern  American  artists 
Law,  Order,  and  the  Republic,  by  Ezra  Pound 
Women  and  Men,  IL,  by  Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
Reviews  of  books  and  plays. 


TH 


^.<  '  IT'       >.^ 


A  MAGAZINE 

MAKINn  NO  COMPBOV 


HE  ARTS 


WITH  THs^  Pi'R' JC  TASTE 


"ULYSSES" 

by 
MMF.V  JOYCE 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 


THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO   WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


MARCH,  1918 


Ulysses,    1. 

Imaginary  Letters,  VIII. 

Matinee 

The  Classics  ''Escape" 

Cantico    del    Sole 

Women  and  Men,  II. 

Bertha 

A  List  of  Books 

Wyndham  Lewis's  "Tarr" 

Raymonde  Collignon 

The  Reader  Critic 


James  Joyce 

Wyndham  Lezvis 

Jessie  Dismorr 

Ezra  Pound 

Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
Arthur  Symons 
Ezra  Pound 


Copyright,    1918,    by   Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign    Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  Nezv  York 

Foreign  office: 

5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London  W.  8. 

25  cents  a  copy  $2.50  a  year 


Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York,  N.  F. 
Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THIS  MARK  ON  GOOD  BOOKS 


By  JAMES  JOYCE 

A  PORTRAIT  OF  THE  ARTIST 

AS  A  YOUNG  MAN 

''Like  some  of -the  best  novels  in  the  world  it  is  the  story  of  an 
education;  it  is  by  far  the  most  living  and  convincing  picture  that 
exists  of  an  Irish  Catholic  upbringing.  It  is  a  mosaic  of  jagged 
fragments  that  does  altogether  render  with  extreme  completeness 
the  growth  of  a  rather  secretive,  imag-inative  boy  in  Dublin.  The 
technique  is  startling,  but  on  the  whole  it  succeeds.  The  interest 
of  the  book  depends  entirely  upon  its  quintessential  and  unfailing 
reality.  One  believes  in  Stephen  Dedalus  as  one  believes  in  few 
characters  in  fiction."  H.  G.  Wells  in  T/ie  New  Republic. 

DUBLINERS 

"As  a  delineator  of  the  more  sombre  aspects  of  Dublin  life 
Mr.  James  Joyce  is  unequalled.  For  him  it  has  remained  in 
'Dubliners'  to  illuminate  with  a  searching  flood  of  imagination  and 
sympathetic  understanding  whole  tracts  of  middle-class  life  in  the 
gray  and  laughing  city.  He  invests  with  a  convincing  reality  and 
an  abiding  human  significance  what  are  apparently  the  most  trivial 
and  insignificant  happenings.''  The  Nation 

"He  is  a  genuine  realist;  he  puts  in  the  exaltations  as  well  as 
the  depressions,  the  inner  life  as  well  as  the  outer.  Spiritual  passions 
are  as  powerful  to  him  as  physical  passions." — The  New  Statesman. 

Each  $1.50  net. 


In   preparation 

EXILES 

A  three-act  play  that  will  enhance  interest  in  the  Irishman  whose 
"Dublinens"  and  "A  Portrait  of  the  Artist  as  a  Young  Man" 
established  him  among  the  most  significant  literary  creators  of 
the  day.  Probably   $1.00   net 


At  all  bookstores,  or  0}  the  publisher 

B.  W.  HUEBSCH     225  Fifth  avenue     NEW  YORK 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

^ol.fV.  MARCH,  1918  No.  11 

ULYSSES 

J  AMES    JOYCE 

E  p  i  s  0  d  e      1 


A 


TATELY,  plump  Buck  Mulligan  came  from  the  stairhead,  bear- 
ing a  bowl  of  lather  on  which  a  mirror  and  a  razor 
ay  crossed.  A  yellow  dressing  gown,  ungirdled,  was  sustained  gent- 
y  behind  him  on  the  mild  morning  air.  He  held  the  bowl  aloft  and 
ntoned: 

— Introibo  ad  altare  Dei. 

Halted,  he  peered  down  the  dark  winding  stairs  and  called  up 
oarsely: 

— ^Corne  up,  Kinch.     Come  up,  you  fearful  Jesuit. 

Solemnly  he  came  forward  and  mounted  the  round  gunrest. 
le  faced  about  and  blessed  gravely  thrice  the  tower,  the  surround- 
ng  country  and  the  awaking  mountains.  Then,  catching  sight  of 
tephen  Dedalus,  he  bent  towards  him  and  made  rapid  crosses  in 
he  air,  gurgling  in  his  throat  and  shaking  his  head.  Stephen 
)edalus,  displeased  and  sleepy,  leaned  his  arms  on  the  top  of  the 
taircase  and  looked  coldly  at  the  shaking  gurgling  face  that  blessed 
im,  equine  in  its  length,  and  at  the  light  untonsured  hair,  grained 
nd  hued  like  pale  oak. 

Buck  Mulligan  peeped  an  instant  under  the  mirror  and  then 
overed  the  bowl  smartly. 

— Back  to  barracks,  he  said  sternly. 

He  added  in  a  preacher's  tone: 

— For  this,  O  dearly  beloved,  is  the  genuine  Christine:  body 
nd  soul  and  blood  and  ouns.  Slow  music,  please,  "^hut  your  eyes, 
ents.  One  moment.  A  little  trouble  about  those  white"  corpuscles, 
ilence,  all. 


The    Little     Review 


He  peered  sideways  up  and  gave  a  long  low  whistle  of  call, 
then  paused  awhile  in  rapt  attention,  his  even  white  teeth  glistening 
here  and  there  with  gold  points  .  Chrysostomos.  ^ 

— Thanks,  old  chap,  he  cried  briskly.  That  will  do  nicely. 
Switch  off  the  current,  will  you? 

He  skipped  off  the  gunrest  and  looked  gravely  at  his  watcher, 
gathering  about  his  legs  the  loose  folds  of  his  gown.  The  plump 
shadowed  face  and  sullen  oval  jowl  recalled  a  prelate,  patron  of  arts 
in  the  middle  ages.    A  pleasant  smile  broke  quietly  over  his  lips. 

— The  mockery  of  it!  he  said  gaily  .Your  absurd  name,  an 
ancient  Greek! 

He  pointed  his  finger  in  friendly  jest  and  went  over  to  the 
parapet,  laughing  to  himself.  Stephen  Dedalus  stepped  up,  followed 
him  wearily  halfway  and  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  the  gunrest, 
watching  him  still  as  he  propped  his  mirror  on  the  parapet,  dipped 
the  brush  in  the  bowl  and  lathered  cheeks  and  neck. 

Buck  Mulligan's  gay  voice  went  on  . 

— My  name  is  absurd  too.  Malachi,  Mulligan,  two  dactyls. 
But  it  has  a  Hellenic  ring,  hasn't  it?  Tripping  and  sunny  like  the 
buck  himself.  We  must  go  to  Athens.  Will  you  come  if  I  can  get 
the  aunt  to  fork  out  twenty  quid? 

He  laid  the  brush  aside  and,  laughing  with  delight,  cried: 

— Will  he  come?    The  jejune  Jesuit. 

Ceasing,  he  began  to  shave  with  care. 

— Tell  me.  Mulligan,  Stephen  said  quietly. 

— ^Yes,  my  love? 

— How  long  is  Haines  going  to  stay  in  this  tower? 

Buck  Mulligan  showed  a  shaven  cheek  over  his  right  shoulder. 

— God,  isn't  he  dreadful?  he  said  frankly.  A  ponderous  Saxon. 
He  thinks  you're  not  a  gentleman.  God,  these  bloody  English  I 
Bursting  with  money  and  indigestion.  Because  he  comes  from  Ox- 
ford. You  know,  Dedalus,  you  have  the  real  Oxford  manner.  He 
can't  make  you  out.  O,  my  name  for  you  is  the  best:  Kinch,  the 
knifeblade. 

He  shaved  warily  over  his  chin. 

— He  was  raving  all  night  about  a  black  panther,  Stephen  said. 
Where  is  his  gfuncase? 

— A  woeful  lunatic,  Mulligan  said.    Were  you  in  a  funk? 

— I  was,  Stephen  said  with  energy  and  growing  fear.  Out  here 
in  the  dark  with  a  man  I  don't  know  raving  and  moaning  to  himself 


i 


I 


The    Little    Review 


about  shooting  a  black  panther.     You  saved  men  from  drowning . 
I'm  not  a  hero,  however.    If  he  stays  on  here  I  am  off. 

Buclv  Mulligan  frowned  at  the  lather  on  his  razor  blade.  He 
hopped  down  from  his  perch  and  began  to  search  his  trouser  pockets 
hastily. 

— Scutter,  he  cried  thickly.    ' 
'         He  came  over  to  the  gunrest  and,  thrusting  a  hand  into  Ste- 
phen's upper  pocket,  said: 

— Give  us  a  loan  of  your  noserag  to  wipe  my  razor. 

Stephen  suffered  him  to  pull  out  and  hold  up  on  show  by  its 
corner  a  dirty  crumpled  handkerchief.  Buck  Mulligan  wiped  the 
razor  blade  neatly.    Then,  gazing  over  the  handkerchief,  he  said: 

— The  bard's  noserag.  A  new  art  colour  for  our  Irish  poets: 
snotgreen.    You  can  almost  taste  it,  can't  you? 

He  mounted  to  the  parapet  again  and  gazed  out  over  Dublin 
bay,  his  fair  oakpale  hair  stirring  slightly. 

— God!  he  said  quietly.  Isn't  the  sea  what  Algy  calls  it:  a  great 
sweet  mother.  The  snotgreen  sea.  The  scrotumtightening  sea. 
Epi  oinopa  ponton.  Ah,  Dedalus,  the  Greeks!  She  is  our  great  sweet 
mother.    Come  and  look. 

Stephen  stood  up  and  went  over  to  the  parapet.  Leaning  on  it, 
he  looked  down  on  the  water. 

— Our  mighty  mother!     Buck  Mulligan  said. 

He  turned  abruptly  his  quick  searching  eyes  from  the  sea  to 
Stephen's  face. 

— The  aunt  thinks  you  killed  your  mother,  he  said.  That's  why 
she  won't  let  me  have  anything  to  do  with  you. 

— Someone  killed  her,  Stephen  said  gloomily. 

— You  could  have  knelt  down,  damn  it.  Kinch,  when  your  dying 
mother  asked  you,  Buck  Mulligan  said.  I'm  hyperborean  as  much 
as  you.  But  to  think  of  your  mother  begging  you  with  her  last 
breath  to  kneel  down  and  pray  for  her.  And  you  refused.  There  is 
something  sinister  in  you  .... 

He  broke  off  and  lathered  again  lightly  his  farther  cheek.  A 
tolerant  smile  curled  his  lips. 

— But  a  lovely  mummer!  he  murmured  to  himself,  Kinch,  the 
loveliest  mummer  of  them  all! 

He  shaved  evenly  and  with  care,  in  silence,  seriously. 

Stephen,  an  elbow  rested  on  the  jagged  granite,  leaned  his 
palm  against  his  brow  and  gazed  at  the  fraying  edge  of  his  shiny 


The    Little    Review 


black  coatsleeve  .  Pain,  that  was  not  yet  the  pain  of  love,  fretted 
his  heart.  Silently,  in  a  dream  she  had  come  to  him  after  her  deathj 
her  wasted  body  within  its  loose  brown  jjraveclothes  giving  off  an 
odour  of  wax  and  rosewood,  her  breath,  that  had  bent  upon  him, 
mute,  reproachful,  a  faint  odour  of  wetted  ashes.  Across  the 
threadbare  cuffedge  he  saw  the  sea.  hailed  as  a  great  sweet  mother 
by  the  wellfed  voice  beside  him.  The  ring  of  bay  and  skyline  held 
a  dull  green  mass  of  liquid.  A  bowl  of  white  china  had  stood  beside 
her  deathbed,  holding  the  green  sluggish  bile  which  she  had  torn  up 
from  her  rotting  liver  by  fits  of  loud  groaning  vomiting. 

Buck   Mulligan   wiped   again  his  razorblade. 

— Ah,  poor  dogsbody!  he  said  in  a  kind  voice  .  I  must  give  you 
a  shirt  and  a  few  noserags.    How  are  the  secondhand  breelcs? 

— They  fit  well  enough,  Stephen  answered. 

Buck  Mulligan  attacked  the  hollow  beneath  his  underlip. 

— The  mockery  of  it,  he  said  contentedly.  Secondleg  they 
should  be.  God  knows  what  poxy  bowsy  left  them  off.  I  have  a 
lovely  pair  with  a  hair  stripe,  grey.  You'll  look  spiffing  in  them. 
I'm  not  joking,  Kinch.     You  look  damn  well  when  you're  dressed. 

— Thanks  ,   Stephen  said.    I  can't  wear  them  if  they  are  grey. 

— He  can't  wear  them,  Buck  Mulligan  told  his  face  in  the 
mirror.  Etiquette  is  etiquette.  He  kills  his  mother  but  he  can't 
wear  grey  trousers. 

He  folded  his  razor  neatly  and  with  stroking  palps  of  fingers 
felt  the  smooth  skin. 

Stephen  turned  his  gaze  from  the  sea  and  to  the  plump  face  with 
its  smokeblue  mobile  eyes. 

— That  fellow  I  was  with  in  the  Ship  with  last  night,  said  Buck 
Mulligan,  says  you  have  g.  p.  i.  He's  up  in  Dottyville  with  Conolly 
Norman.    General  paralysis  of  the  insane! 

He  swept  the  mirror  a  half  circle  in  the  air  to  flash  the  tidings 
abroad  in  sunlight  now  radiant  on  the  sea.  His  curling  shaven  lips 
laughed  and  the  edges  of  his  white  glittering  teeth.  Laughter  seized 
all  his  strong  wellknit  trunk. 

— Look  at  yourself,  he  said,  you  dreadful  bard! 

Stephen  bent  forward  and  peered  at  the  mirror  held  out  to  him, . 
cleft  by  a  crooked  crack.  Hair  on  end.  As  he  and  others  see  me.j 
Who  chose  this  face  for  me?  It  asks  me  too.  I  pinched  it  out  of* 
the  skivvy's  room,  Buck  Mulligan  said.    It  does  her  all  right.    The' 


The     Little   _R  ev  i  ew 


aunt  always  keeps  plain  looking  servants  for  Malachi.  Lead  him  not 
into  temptation.    And  her  name  is  Ursula. 

Laughing  again,  he  brought  the  mirror  away  from  Stephen's 
peering  eyes. 

— The  rage  of  Caliban  at  not  seeing  his  face  in  a  mirror,  he  said. 
If  Wilde  were  only  alive  to  see  you! 

Drawing  back  and  pointing,  Stephen  said  with  bitterness: 

— It  is  a  symbol  of  Irish  art.  The  cracked  looking-glass  of  a 
servant. 

Buck  Mulligan  suddenly  linked  his  arm  in  Stephen's  and 
walked  with  him  round  the  tower,  his  razor  and  mirror  clacking  in 
the  pocket  where  he  had  thrust  them. 

— It's  not  fair  to  tease  you  like  that,  Kinch,  is  it?  he  said 
kindly.    God  knows  you  have  more  spirit  than  any  of  them. 

Parried  again.  He  fears  the  lancet  of  my  art  as  I  fear  that 
of  his. 

— The  cracked  lookingglass  of  a  servant!  Tell  that  to  the  oxy 
chap  downstairs  and  touch  him  for  a  guinea.  He's  stinking  with 
money  and  thinks  you're  not  a  gentleman.  His  old  fellow  made 
his  tin  by  selling  jalap  to  Zulus  or  some  bloody  swindle  or  other. 
God,  Kinch,  if  you  and  I  could  only  work  together  we  might  do 
something  for  the  island.    Hellenise  it. 

Cranly's  arm.     His  arm. 

— And  to  think  of  your  having  to  beg  from  these  swine.  I'm 
the  only  one  that  knows  what  you  are.  Why  don't  you  trust  me 
more?  What  have  you  up  your  nose  against  me?  Is  it  Haines?  If 
he  makes  any  noise  here  I'll  bring  down  Seymour  and  we'll  give  him 
a  ragging  worse  than  they  gave  Clive  Kempthorpe. 

Young  shouts  of  moneyed  voices  in  Clive  Kempthorpe's  rooms. 
Palefaces:  they  hold  their  ribs  with  laughter,  one  clasping  another, 
O,  I  shall  expire!  Break  the  news  to  her  gently,  Aubrey!  I  shall 
die!  With  slit  ribbons  of  his  shirt  whipping  the  air  he  hops  and 
hobbles  round  the  table,  with  trousers  down  at  heels,  chased  by 
Ades  of  Magdalen  with  the  tailor's  shears.  A  scared  calf's  face 
gilded  with  marmalade.  I  d.on't  want  to  be  debagged!  Don't  you 
play  the  giddy  ox  with  me! 

Shouts  from  the  open  window  startling  evening  in  the  quad- 
rangle. A  deaf  gardener,  aproned,  masked  with  Matthew  Arnold's 
face,  pushes  his  mower  on  the  sombre  lawn,  watching  narrowly  the 
dancing  motes  of  grasshalms. 


The     Little     Review 


To  ourselves  ....  new  paganism  ....  omphalos. 

—Let  him  stay,  Stephen  said.  There's  nothing  wrong  with  him 
except  at  night. 

— Then  what  is  it?  Buck  Mullician  asked  impatiently.  Cough 
it  up.    I'm  quite  frank  with  you.    What  have  you  against  me  now? 

They  halted,  looking  towards  the  blunt  cape  of  Bray  Head  that 
lay  on  the  water  like  the  snout  of  a  sleeping  whale.  Stephen  freed 
his  arm  quickly. 

— Do  you  wish  me  to  tell  you?  he  asked. 

— Yes.  what  is  it?  Buck  Mulligan  answered.  I  don't  remem- 
ber anything. 

He  looked  in  Stephen's  face  as  he  spoke  A  light  wind  passed 
his  brow,  fanning  softly  his  fair  uncombed  hair  and  stirring  silver 
points  of  anxiety  in  his  eyes. 

Stephen,  depressed  by  his  own  voice,  said: 

— Do  you  remember  the  first  day  I  went  to  your  house  after 
my  mother's  death? 

Buck  Mulligan  frowned  quickly  and  said: 

. — What?  Where?  I  can't  remember- anything.  I  remember 
only  ideas  and  sensations.  Why?  What  happened  in  the  name  of 
God? 

— You  were  making  tea,  Stephen  said,  and  I  went  across  the 
landing  to  get  more  hot  water.  Your  mother  and  some  visitor  came 
out  of  the  drawingroom.    She  asked  you  who  was  in  your  room. 

— Yes?    Buck  Mulligan  said.    What  did  I  say?    I  forget. 

— You  said,  Stephen  answered,  O,  it's  only  Dedalus  whose 
mother  is  beastly  dead. 

A  flush  which  made  him  seem  younger  and  more  engaging  rose 
to  Buck  Mulligan's  cheek. 

—Did  I  say  that?    he  asked.    Well?    What  harm  is  that? 

He  shook  his  constraint  from  him  nervously. 

— And  what  is  death,  he  asked,  your  mother's  or  yours  or  my 
own?  You  saw  only  your  mother  die.  I  see  them  pop  off  every  day 
in  the  Mater  and  Richmond  and  cut  up  into  tripes  in  the  dissecting 
room.  It's  a  beastly  thing  and  nothing  else.  It  simply  doesn't  mat- 
ter. You  wouldn't  kneel  down  to  pray  for  your  mother  on  her 
deathbed  when  she  asked  you.  Why?  Because  you  have  the  cursed 
Jesuit  strain  in  you  only  it's  injected  the  wrong  way.  To  me  it's 
all  a  mockery  and  beastly.  Her  cerebral  lobes  are  not  functioning. 
She  calls  the  doctor  Sir  Peter  Teazle  and  picks  buttercups  off  the 


1 


The    Little    Review 


quilt.  Humour  her  till  it's  over.  You  crossed  her  last  wish  in  death 
and  yet  you  sulk  with  me  because  I  don't  whinge  like  some  hired 
mute  from  Lalouette's.  Absurd!  I  suppose  I  did  say  it.  I  didn't 
mean  to  offend  the  memory  of  your  mother. 

He  had  spoken  himself  into  boldness.  Stephen,  shielding  the 
gaping  wounds  which  the  words  had  left  in  his  heart,  said  very 
coldly:  JK^M^ 

— I  am  not  thinking  of  the  offence  to  my  mother. 

— Of  what,  then?     Buck  Mulligan  asked. 

— Of  the  offence  to  me,  Stephen  answered. 

Buck  Mulligan  swung  round  on  his  heel. 

— O,  an  impossible  person!  he  exclaimed. 

He  walked  off  quickly  round  the  parapet.  Stephen  stood  at  his 
post,  gazing  over  the  calm  sea  towards  the  headland.  Sea  and  head- 
land now  grew  dim.  Pulses  were  beating  in  his  eyes,  veiling  their 
sight,  and  he  felt  the  fever  of  his  cheeks 

A  voice  within  the  tower  called  loudly: 

— Are  you  up  there,  Mulligan? 

— I'm  coming,  Buck  Mulligan  answered. 

He  turned  towards  Stephen  and  said: 

— Look  at  the  sea.  What  does  it  care  about  offences?  Chuck 
Loyola,  Kinch,  and  come-  on  down.  The  Sassenach  wants  his  morn- 
ing rashers. 

His  head  halted  again  for  a  moment  at  the  top  of  the  staircase, 
level  with  the  roof: 

— Don't  mope  over  it  all  day,  he  said.  I'm  inconsequent.  Give 
up  the  moody  brooding. 

His  head  vanished  but  the  drone  of  his  descending  voice 
boomed  out  of  the  stairhead. 

— And  no  more  turn  aside  and  brood  , 

Upon  love's  hitter  mystery 

For  Fergtts  rules  the  brazen  cars. 

Woodshadows  floated  silently  by  through  the  morning  peace 
from  the  stairhead  seaward  where  he  gazed.  Inshore  and  farther 
out  the  mirror  of  water  whitened,  spurned  by  light-shod  hurrying 
feet.  White  breast  of  the  dim  sea.  The  twining  stresses,  two  by 
two.  A  hand  plucking  the  harpstrings,  merging  their  twining  chords. 
Wavewhite  wedded  words  shimmering  on  the  dim  tide. 

A  clod  began  to  cover  the  sun  slowly,  wholly,  shadowing  the 
bay  in  deeper  green.    It  lay  beneath  him,  a  bowl  of  bitter  waters. 


10  T  he    Little    Review 


Fergus'  song.  I  sang  it  alone  in  the  house,  holding  down  the  long 
dark  chords.  Her  door  was  open:  she  wanted  to  hear  my  music. 
Silent  with  awe  and  pity  I  went  to  her  bedside.  She  was  crying  in 
her  wretched  bed.    For  those  words,  Stephen:  love's  bitter  mystery. 

Where  now? 

Her  secrets:  old  feather  fans,  tassled  dancecards,  powdered  with 
musk,  a  gaud  of  amber  beads  in  her  locked  drawer.  A  birdcage 
hung  in  the  sunny  window  of  her  house  when  she  was  a  girl.  She 
heard  old  Royce  sing  in  the  pantomime  of  Turko  the  Terrible  and 
laughed  with  others  when  he  sang: 

/  am  the  boy 

That  can  enjoy 

Invisibility. 

Phantasmal  mirth,  folded  away:  musk  perfumed. 

And  no  more  turn  aside  and  brood. 

Folded  away  in  the  memory  of  nature  with  her  toys.  Memories 
beset  his  brooding  brain.  Her  glass  of  water  from  the  kitchen  tap 
when  she  had  approached  the  sacrament.  A  cored  apple,  filled  with 
brown  sugar,  roasting  for  her  at  the  hob  on  a  dark  autumn  evening. 
Her  shapely  fingernails  reddened  by  the  blood  of  squashed  lice  from 
the  children's  shirts. 

In  a  dream,  silently,  she  had  come  to  him,  her  wasted  body  with- 
in its  loose  graveclothes  giving  off  an  odour  of  wax  and  rosewood, 
her  breath  bent  over  him  with  mute  secret  words,  a  faint  odour  of 
wetted  ashes. 

Her  glazing  eyes,  staring  out  of  death,  to  shake  and  bend  my 
soul.  On  me  alone.  The  ghostcandle  to  light  her  agony.  Ghostly 
light  on  the  tortured  face.  Her  hoarse  loud  breath  rattling  in  horror, 
while  all  prayed  on  their  knees.  Her  eyes  on  me  to  strike  me  down. 
Liliata  riitilantium  te  conjessoriim  turma  circumdet:  iiibilantium  te 
virginum  chorus  excipiat. 

Ghoul!     Chewer  of  corpses! 

No,  mother!     Let  me  be  and  let  me  live 

— Kinch  ahoy! 

Buck  Mulligan's  voice  sang  from  within  the  tower.  It  came 
nearer  up  the  staircase,  calling  again.  Stephen,  still  trembling  at  his 
soul's  cry,  heard  warm  running  sunlight  and  in  the  air  behind  him, 
friendly  words. 

— Dedalus,  come  down,  like  a  good  mosey.  Breakfast  is  ready. 
Haines  is  apologising  for  waking  us  last  night.    It's  all  right. 


The    Little    Review  ii 


— I'm  coming,  Stephen  said,  turning. 

— Do,  for  Jesus'  sake,  Buck  Mulligan  said.  For  my  sake  and 
for  all  our  sakes. 

His  head  disappeared  and  reappeared, 

— I  told  him  your  symbol  of  Irish  art.    He  says  it's  very  clever. 

Touch  him  for  a  quid,  will  you?    A  guinea,  I  mean. 

— I  get  paid  this  morning,  Stephen  said. 

— The  school  kip?  Buck  Mulligan  said.  How  much?  Four 
quid?    Lend  us  one. 

— If  you  want  it,  Stephen  said. 

— Four  shining  sovereigns.  Buck  Mulligan  cried  with  delight. 
We'll  have  a  glorious  drunk  to  astonish  the  druidy  druids.  Four 
omnipotent  sovereigns. 

He  flung  up  his  hands  and  tramped  down  the  stone  stairs,  sing- 
ing  out  of  tune  with  a  Cockney  accent. 

— O,  won't  we  have  a  merry  time, 

Drinking  whiskey,  beer  and  wine! 

On  coronation 

Qoronation  day! 

0  won't  we  have  a  merry  time 

On  coronation  day  ! 

Warm  sunshine  merry  over  the  sea.  The  nickel  shaving  bowl 
shone,  forgotten,  on  the  parapet.  Why  should  I  bring  it  down?  Or 
leave  it  there  all  day,  forgotten  friendship? 

He  went  over  to  it,  held  it  in  his  hands  awhile,  feeling  its  cool- 
ness, smelling  the  clammy  slaver  of  the  lather  in  which  tihe  brush  was 
stuck.  So  I  carried  the  boat  of  incense  then  at  Clongowes.  I  am 
another  now  and  yet  the  same.    A  servant  too.  A  server  of  a  servant. 

In  the  gloomy  domed  livingroom  of  the  tower  Buck  Mulligan's 
gowned  form  moved  briskly  about  the  hearth  to  and  fro,  hiding  and 
revealing  its  yellov/  glow.  Two  shafts  of  soft  daylight  fell  across 
the  flagged  floor  from  the  high  barbaoans:  and  at  the  meeting  of 
their  rays  a  cloud  of  coalsmoke  and  fumes  of  fried  grease  floated, 
turning. 

— We'll  be  choked.  Buck  Mulligan  said.  Haines,  open  that  door, 
will  you? 

Stephen  laid  the  shavingbowl  on  the  locker.  A  tall  figure  rose 
from  the  hammock  where  it  had  been  sitting,  went  to  the  doorway 
and  pulled  open  the  inner  doors. 

— Have  you  the  key?  a  voice  asked. 

— Dedalus  has  it.  Buck  Mulligan  said.  Janey  Mack,  I'm 
choked! 


%.. 


12  The    Little     Review 


He  howled  withovit  looking  up  from  the  fire: 

— Kinch! 

— It's  in  the  lock,  Stephen  said,  coming  forward. 

The  key  scraped  round  harshly  twice  and,  when  the  heavy  door 
had  been  set  ajar,  welcome  light  and  bright  air  entered.  Haines  stood 
at  the  doorway,  looking  out.  Stephen  hauled  his  up-ended  valise  to 
the  table  and  sat  down  to  wait.  Buck  Mulligan  tossed  the  fry  on 
to  the  dish  beside  him.  Then  he  carried  the  dish  and  a  large  tea- 
pot over  to  the  table,  set  them  down  heavily  and  sighed  with  relief. 

— I'm  melting,  he  said,  as  the  candle  remarked  when 

But  hush!  Not  a  word  more  on  that  subject.  Kinch,  wake  up! 
Bread,  butter,  honey.  Haines,  come  in.  The  grub  is  ready.  Bless 
us,  0  Lord,  and  these  they  gifts.  WTiere's  the  sugar?  O,  jay,  there's 
no  milk. 

Stephen  fetched  the  loaf  and  the  pot  of  honey  and  the  butter- 
cooler  from  the  locker.    Buck  Mulligan  sat  down  in  a  sudden  pet. 

— What  sort  of  a  kip  is  this?  he  said.  I  told  her  to  come  be- 
fore nine. 

— We  can  drink  it  black,  Stephen  said.  There's  a  lemon  in  the 
locker.  , 

— O,  damn  you  and  your  Paris  fads!  Buck  Mulligan  said.  I 
want  Sandycove  milk. 

Haines  came  in  from  the  doorway  and  said  quietly: 

— That  v^'oman  is  coming  up  with  the  milk. 

— The  blessings  of  God  on  you!  Buck  Mulligan  said,  jumping 
up  from  his  chair.  Sit  down.  Pour  out  the  tea  there.  The  sugar 
is  in  the  bag.    Here,  I  can't  go  fumbling  at  the  damned  eggs. 

He  hacked  through  the  fry  on  the  dish  and  slapped  it  out  on 
three  plates,  saying:  j 

— In  nomine  Patris  et  Filii  et  Spiritus  Sancti.  ■ 

Haines  sat  down  to  pour  out  the  tea. 

— I'm  giving  you  two  lumps  each,  he  said.  But,  I  say,  Mulli- 
gan, you  do  make  strong  tea,  don't  you? 

Buck  Mulligan,  hewing  thick  slices  from  the  loaf,  said  in  an  old 
woman's  wheedling  voice: 

— When  I  makes  tea  I  makes  tea,  as  old  mother  Grbgan  said. 
And  when  I  makes  water  I  makes  water. 

— By  Jove,  it  is  tea,  Haines  said.  ' 

Buck  Mulligan  went  on  hewing  and  wheedling: 
—  So  I  do,  Mrs.  Cahill,  says  she.    Begob,  ma'am,  says  Mrs.  Ca- 
hill,  God  send  you  don't  make  them  in  the  one  pot. 


T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Rev  iew  13 

He  lunged  towards  his  messmates  in  turn  a  thick  slice  of  bread, 
impaled  on  his  knife. 

— That's  folk,  he  said  very  earnestly,  for  your  book,  Haines. 
Five  lines  of  text  and  ten  pages  of  notes  about  the  folk  and  the  fish- 
gods  of  Dundrum. 

He  turned  to  Stephen  and  asked  in  a  fine  puzzled  voice,  lifting 
his  brows: 

— Can  you  recall,  brother,  is  mother  Grogan's  tea  and  water  pot 
spoken  of  in  the  Mabinogion  or  is  it  in  the  Upanishade? 

— I  doubt  it,  said  Stephen  gravely. 

—Do  you  now?  Buck  Mulligan  said  in  the  same  tone.  Your 
reasons,  pray? 

— I  fancy,  Stephen  said  as  he  ate,  it  did  not  exist  in  or  out  of 
the  Mabinogion.  Mother  Grogan  was,  one  imagines,  a  kinswoman 
of  Mary  Ann.  . 

Buck  Mulligan's  face  smiled  with  delight. 

— Charming!  he  said  in  a  finical  sweet  voice,  showing  his  white 
teeth  and  blinking  his  eyes  pleasantly.  Do  you  think  she  was? 
Quite  charming! 

Then,  suddenly  overclouding  all  his  features,  he  growled  in  a 
hoarsened  rasping  voice  as  he  hewed  again  vigorously  at  the  loaf. 

— For  old  Mary  Ann 

She  doesn't  care  a  damn 

But,  hising  up  her  petticoats 

He  crammed  his  mouth  with  fry  and  munched  and  droned. 

The  doorway  was  darkened  by  an  entering  form. 

— The  milk,  sir. 

— ^Come  in,  ma'am,  Mulligan  said.    Kinch,  get  the  jug. 

An  old  woman  came  forward  and  stood  by  Stephen's  elbow. 

— That's  a  lovely  morning,  sir,  she  said.    Glory  be  to  God. 

— To  whom?    Mulligan  said,  glancing  at  her.    Ah,  to  be  surel 

Stephen  reached  back  and  took  the  milkjug  from  the  locker. 

— The  islanders,  Mulligan  said  to  Haines  casually,  speak  fre- 
quently of  the  collector  of  prepuces. 

— How  much,  sir?    asked  the  old  woman. 

— A  quart,  Stephen  said. 

He  watched  her  p)our  into  the  measure  and  thence  into  the  jug 
rich  white  milk,  not  hers.  Old  shrunken  paps.  She  poured  again  a 
measurful  and  a  tillv.    Old  and  secret  she  had  entered  from  a  morn- 


14  The    Little     Review 

ing  world,  maybe  a  messenger.  She  praised  the  goodness  of  her  milk, 
pouring  it  out.  Crouching  by  a  patient  cow  at  daybreak  in  the 
lush  field,  a  witch  on  her  toadstool,  her  wrinkled  fingers  quick  at  the 
squirting  dugs.  'I'hey  lowed  about  her  whom  they  knew,  dewsilky 
cattle.  Silk  of  the  kine  and  poor  old  woman,  names  given  her  in  old 
times.  A  wandering  queen,  lowly  form  of  an  immortal  serving  her 
conqueror  and  her  betrayer,  a  messenger  from  the  secret  morning. 
To  serve  or  to  upbraid,  whether  he  could  not  tell:  but  scorned  to 
beg  her  favour. 

— It  is  indeed,  ma'am.  Buck  Mulligan  said,  pouring  milk  into 
their  cups. 

— Taste  it,  sir,  she  said. 

He  drank  at  her  bidding. 

— If  we  could  only  live  on  good  food  like  that,  he  said  to  her 
somewhat  loudly,  we  wouldn't  have  the  country  full  of  rotten  teeth 
and  rotten  guts.  Living  in  a  bogswamp,  eating  cheap  food  and  the 
streets  paved  with  dust,  horsedung  and  consumptives'  spits. 

— Are  you  a  medical  student,  sir?  the  old  woman  asked. 

— I  am,  ma'am.  Buck  Mulligan  answered. 

Stephen  listened  in  scornful  silence  She  bows  her  old  head  to  a 
voice  that  speaks  to  her  loudly,  her  bonesetter,  her  medicineman:  me 
•he  slights.  To  the  voice  that  will  shrive  and  oil  for  the  grave  all 
there  is  of  her  but  her  woman's  unclean  loins.  And  to  the  loud 
voice  that  now  bids  her  be  silent  with  wondering  unsteady  eyes. 

— Do  you  understand  what  he  says?     Stephen  asked  her. 

— Is  it  French  you  are  talking,  sir?  the  old  woman  said  to 
Haines. 

Haines  spoke  to  her  again  a  longer  speech,  confidently. 

— Irish,  Buck  Mulligan  said. 

— I  thought  it  was  Irish,  she  said,  by  the  sound  of  it.  Are 
you  from  the  west,  sir? 

— I  am  an  Eng-lishman,  Haines  answered. 

— He's  English,  Buck  Mulligan  said,  and  he  thinks  we  ought  to 
speak  Irish  in  Ireland. 

— Sure  we  ought  too,  the  old  woman  said,  and  I'm  ashamed  I 
don't  soeak  the  language  myself  I'm  told  it's  a  grand  language  by 
them  that  knows. 

— Grand  is  no  name  for  it,  said  Buck  Mulligan.  Fill  us  out 
some  more  tea,  Kinch.    Would  you  like  a  cup,  ma'am? 


The    Little    Review  15 


—No,  thank  you,  sir,  the  old  woman  said,  slipping  the  ring  of 
the  milkcan  on  her  forearm  and  about  to  go. 

Haines  said  to  her:  ,,  „. 

—Have  you  your  bill?     We  had  better  pay  her,  Mulligan, 

hadn't  we? 

Stephen  filled  again  the  three  cups  . 

—Bill,  sir?  she  said,  halting.  Well,  it's  seven  mornmgs  a  pmt 
at  twopence  is  seven  twos  is  a  shilling  and  twopence  over  and  these 
three  mornings  a  quart  at  fourpence  is  three  quarts  is  a  shilling  and 
one  and  two  is  two  and  two,  sir. 

Buck  Mulligan  sighed  and,  having  filled  his  mouth  with  a  crust 
thickly  buttered  on  both  sides,  stretched  forth  his  legs  and  began 
to  search  his  trouser  pockets. 

Pay  up  and  look  pleasant,  Haines  said  to  him  smiling. 

Stephen  filled  a  third  cup,  a  spoonful  of  tea  colouring  faintly  the 
thick  rich  milk.  Buck  Mulligan  brought  up  a  florin,  twisted  it  round 
in  his  fingers  and  cried: 

— A  miracle! 

He  passed  it  along  the  table  towards  the  old  woman,  saying: 

— Ask  nothing  more  0}  me,  sweet, 

All  I  can  give  you  I  give. 

Stephen  laid  the  coin  in  her  uneager  hand. 

— We'll  owe  twopence,  he  said. 

— Time  enough,  sir,  she  said,  taking  the  coin.  Time  enough. 
'Good  morning  sir. 

She  curtseyed  and  went  out,  followed  by  Buck  Mulligan's 
tender  chant: 

— Heart  of  my  heart,  were  it  more 

More  would  be  laid  at  your  feet. 

He  turned  to  Stephen  and  said: 

— Seriously,  Dedalus,  I'm  stony  .  Hurry  out  to  your  school 
kip  and  bring  us  back  some  money.  Today  the  bards  must  drink 
and  junket.  Ireland  expects  that  every  man  this  day  will  do  his 
duty. 

— That  reminds  me,  Haines  said,  rising,  that  I  have  to  visit 
your  national  library  today. 

— Our  swim  first.  Buck  Mulligan  said. 

He  turned  to  Stephen  and  asked  blandly: 

— Is  this  the  day  for  your  monthly  wash,  Kinch? 


i6  The     Little     Review 


Then  he  said  to  Haines: 

— The  bard  makes  a  point  of  washing  once  a  month. 

— All  Ireland  is  washed  by  the  gulfstream,  Stephen  said  as  he 
let  honey  trickle  over  a  slice  of  the  loaf. 

Haines  from  the  corner  where  he  was  knotting  easily  a  scarf 
about  the  loose  collar  of  his  tennis  shirt  spoke: 

— I  intend  to  make  a  collection  of  your  sayings  if  you  will  let 
me. 

Speaking  to  me. 

— That  one  about  the  cracked  lookingglass  of  a  servant  being 
the  S5mibol  of  Irish  art  is  deuced  good. 

Buck  Mullie^an  kicked  Stephen's  foot  under  the  table  and  said 
with  warmth  of  tone: 

— Wait  till  you  hear  him  on  Hamlet,  Haines. 

— Well,  I  mean  it,  Haines  said,  still  speaking  to  Stephen.  I  was 
just  thinking  of  it  when  that  poor  old  creature  came  in. 

— Would  I  make  money  by  it?    Stephen  asked.  ^ 

Haines  laughed  and  as  he  took  his  soft  grey  hat  from  the  hold- 
fast of  the  hammock,  said: 

— I  don't  know,  I'm  sure. 

He  strolled  out  to  the  doorway.  Buck  Mulligan  bent  across  to 
Stephen  and  said  with  coarse  vigour: 

—  You  put  your  hoof  in  it  now.    What  did  you  say  that  for? 

— Well?  Stephen  said.  The  problem  is  to  get  money.  From 
whom?     From  the  milkwoman  or  from  him.   It's  a  toss  up,  I  think. 

— I  blow  him  out  about  you,  Buck  Mulligan  said,  and  then  you 
come  along  with  your  lousy  leer  and  your  gloomy  Jesuit  jibes. 

— I  see  little  hope,  Stephen  said,  from  her  or  from  him. 

Buck  Mulligan  sighed  tragically  and  laid  his  hand  on  Stephen's 
arm. 

— From  me,  Kinch,  he  said. 

In  a  suddenly  changed  tone  he  added: 

— To  tell  you  the  God's  truth  I  think  you're  right.  Damn  all 
else  they  are  good  for.  Why  don't  you  play  them  as  I  do?  To  hell 
with  them  all.    Let  us  get  out  of  the  kip. 

He  stood  up.  gfravely  ungirdled  and  disrobed  himself  of  his 
gown,  saying  resignedly: 

— ^Mulligan  is  stripped  of  his  garments. 

He  emptied  his  pockets  on  to  the  table. 

— There's  your  snotrag,  he  said. 

And  putting  on  his  stiff  collar  and  rebellious  tie,  he  spoke  to 


The    Little    Review  17 

them,  chiding  them,  and  to  his  dangling  watchchain.  His  hands 
plunged  and  rummaged  in  his  trunk  while  he  called  for  a  clean 
handkerchief.  God,  we'll  simply  have  to  dress  the  character.  I 
want  puce  gloves  and  green  boots.  Contradiction.  Do  I  contradict 
myself?  Very  well  then.  I  contradict  myself.  Mercurial  Malachi, 
A  limp  black  missile  flew  out  of  his  talking  hands. 

— And  there's  your  Latin  quarter  hat,  he  said. 

Stephen  picked  it  up  and  put  it  on.  Haines  called  to  them  from 
the  doorway: 

— Are  you  coming,  you  fellows? 

— I'm  ready.  Buck  Mulligan  answered,  going  towards  the  door. 
Come  out,  Kinch.    You  have  eaten  all  we  left,  I  suppose 

Stepphen,  taking  his  ashplant  from  its  leaningplace,  followed 
them  out  and,  as  they  went  down  the  ladder  pulled  to  the  slow  iron 
door  and  locked  it.    He  put  the  huge  key  in  his  inner  pocket. 

At  the  foot  of  the  ladder  Buck  Mulligan  asked: 

— Did  you  bring  the  key? 

— I  have  it,  Stephen  said,  preceding  them. 

He  walked  on.  Behind  him  he  heard  Buck  Mulligan  club  with 
his  heavy  bathtowel  upreared  ferns  or  grasses.  ^ 

— Down,  sir!    How  dare  you,  sir! 

Haines  asked: 

— Do  you  pay  rent  for  this  tower? 

— Twelve  quid,  Buck  Mulligan  said. 

— To  the  secretary  of  state  for  war,  Stephen  added  over  his 
shoulder. 

They  halted  while  Haines  surveyed  the  tower  and  said  at  last: 

— Rather  bleak  in  wintertime,  I  should  say.  Martello  you  call  it? 

— Billy  Pitt  had  them  built,  Buck  Mulligan  said,  when  the 
French  were  on  the  sea.    But  ours  is  the  omphalos. 

— What  is  your  idea  of  Hamlet?    Haines  asked  Stephen. 

— No,  no,  Buck  Mulligan  shouted  in  pain.  I'm  not  equal  to 
Thomas  Aquinas  and  the  fifty-five  reasons  he  has  made  to  prop  it  up. 
Wait  till  I  have  a  few  pints  in  me  first. 

He  turned  to  Stephen,  saying  as  he  pulled  down  neatly  the  peaks 
of  his  primrose  waistcoat: 

— You  couldn't  manage  it  under  three  pints,  Kinch,  could  you? 

— It  has  waited  so  long,  Stephen  said  listlessly,  it  can  wait 
longer. 

— You  pique  my  curiosity,  Haines  said  amiably  Is  it  some 
paradox? 


i8  The    Little     Review 

— Pooh!  Buck  Mulligan  said.  We  have  grown  out  of  Wilde 
and  paradoxes.  It's  quite  simple.  He  proves  by  algebra  that  Ham- 
let's grandson  is  Shakespeare's  grandfather  and  that  he  himself  is  the 
ghost  of  his  own  father. 

— What?  Haines  said,  beginning  to  point  at  Stephen.  He  him- 
self? 

Buck  Mulligan  slung  his  towel  stolewise  roun  his  neclt  and, 
bending  in  loose  laughter,  said  to  Stephen's  ear: 

— O,  shade  of  Kinch  the  elder. 

— I'm  always  tired  in  the  morning,  Stephen  said  to  Haines. 
And  it  is  rather  long  to  tell. 

Buck  Mulligan,  walking  forward  again,  raised  his  hands. 

— The  sacred  pint  alone  can  unbind  the  tongue  of  Dedalus,  he 
said. 

— I  mean  to  say,  Haines  explained  to  Stephen  as  they  fol- 
lowed, this  tower  and  these  cliffs  here  remind  me  somehow  of  Elsi- 
nore. 

— That  beetles  O'er  his  Base  into  the  sea,  isn't  it? 

Buck  Mulligan  turned  suddenly  for  an  instant  towards  Stephen 
but  did  not  speak.  In  the  bright  silent  instant  Stephen  saw  his  own 
image  in  cheap  dusty  mourning  between  their  gay  attires. 

— It's  a  wonderful  tale,  Haines  said  bringing  them  to  halt  again. 

He  gazed  southward  over  the  bay.  Eyes,  pale  as  the  sea  the 
wind  had  freshened,  paler,  firm  and  prudent.  The  seas'  ruler,  he 
gazed  over  the  bay,  empty  save  for  a  sail  tacking  by  the  Muglins. 

— I  read  a  theological  interpretation  of  it  somewhere,  he  said 
bemused.  The  Father  and  the  Son  idea.  The  Son  striving  to  be 
atoned  with  the  Father. 

Buck  Mulligan  at  once  put  on  a  blithe  broadly  smiling  face. 
He  looked  at  them,  his  wellshaped  mouth  open  happily,  his  eyes, 
from  which  he  had  suddenly  withdrawn  all  shrewd  sense,  blinking 
with  mad  gaiety.  He  moved  a  doll's  head  to  and  fro,  the  brims  of  his 
Panama  hat  quivering,  and  began  to  chant  in  a  quiet  happy  foolish 
voice: 

— I'm  the  queerest  young  fellow  that  ever  you  heard. 
My  mother's  a  jew,  my  father's  a  bird. 
With  Joseph  the  joiner  I  cannot  agree, 
So  here's  to  disciples  and  Calvary. 


The    Little    Review  19 

He  held  up  a  forefinger  of  warning 

//  anyone  thinks  that  I  amn't  divine 
He'll  get  no  free  drinks  when  I'm  making  the  wine 
But  have  to  drink  water  and  wish  it  were  plain 
That  I  mP'ke  when  the  ivine  becomes  water  again. 

He  tugged  swiftly  at  Stephen's  ashplant  in  farewell  and,  running 
forward  to  a  brow  of  the  cliff,  fluttered  his  hands  at  his  sides  like 
fins  or  wings  of  one  about  to  rise  in  the  air:  and  chanted 

Goodbye,  now,  goodbye!    Write  down  all  I  said 
And  tell  Tom,  Dick  and  Harry  I  rose  from  the  dead. 
What's  bred  in  the  bone  cannot  fail  me  to  fly 
And  Olivet's  breezy  —  Goodbye,  now,  goodbye! 

He  capered  before  them  down  towards  the  forty-foot  hole, 
fluttering  his  winglike  hands,  leaping  nimbly,  Mercury's  hat  quiver- 
ing in  the  fresh  wind  that  bore  back  to  them  his  brief  birdlike  cries. 

Haines,  who  had  been  laughing  guardedly,  walked  on  beside 
Stephen,  and  said: 

— We  oughtn't  to  laugh,  I  suppose.  He's  rather  blasphemous. 
I'm  not  a  believer  myself,  that  is  to  say.  Still  his  gaiety  takes 
the  harm  out  of  it  somehow,  doesn't  it?  What  did  he  call  it? 
Joseph  the  Joiner? 

— The  ballad  of  joking  Jesus,  Stephen  answered. 

— O,  Haines  said,  you  have  heard  it  before? 

— Three  times  a  day,  after  meals,  Stephen  said  drily. 

— You're  not  a  believer,  are  you?  Haines  asked.  I  mean,  a  be- 
liever in  the  narrow  sense  of  the  word.  Creation  from  nothing  and 
miracles  and  a  personal  God. 

— There's  only  one  sense  of  tht  word,  it  seems  to  me,  Stephen  said. 

Haines  stopped  to  take  out  a  smooth  silver  case  in  which  twin- 
kled a  green  stone.    He  sprang  it  open  with  his  thumb  and  offered  it. 

— Thank  you,  Stephen  said,  taking  a  cigarette. 

Haines  helped  himself  and  snapped  the  case  to.  He  put  it  back 
in  his  sidepocket  and  took  from  his  waistcoatpocket  a  nickel  tin- 
derbox,  sprang  it  open  too,  and  having  lit  his  cigarette,  held  the  flam- 
ing spunk  towards  Stephen  in  the  shell  of  his  hands. 

— Yes,  of  course,  he  said,  as  they  went  on  again.  Either  you 
believe  or  you  don't,  isn't  it?  Personally  I  couldn't  stomach  that 
idea  of  a  personal  God.    You  don't  stand  for  that,  I  suppose. 


20  The     Little     Review 


— You  behold  in  me,  Stephen  said  with  grim  displeasure,  a  horri- 
ble example  of  free  thought. 

He  walked^on,  waiting  to  be  spoken  to,  trailing  his  ashplant  by 
his  side.  Its  ferrule  followed  lightly  on  the  path,  squealing  at  his 
heels.  My  familiar,  after  me,  calling  Steeeeeeephen !  A  wavering 
line  along  the  path.  They  will  walk  on  it  tonight,  coming  here  in  the 
dark.  He  wants  that  key.  It  is  mine.  I  paid  the  rent.  Now  I  eat 
his  food.  Give  him  the  key  too.  All.  He  will  ask  for  it.  That  was 
in  his  eyes. 

— After  all,  Haines  began — 

Stephen  turned  and  saw  that  the  cold  gaze  which  had  measured 
him  was  not  at  all  unkind. 

— After  all,  I  should  think  you  are  able  to  free  yourself.  You 
are  your  own  master,  it  seems  to  me. 

— I  am  the  servant  of  two  masters,  Stephen  said,  an  English  and 
an  Italian. 

— Italian?    Haines  said. 

— A  crazy  queen,  old  and  jealous.  Kneel  down  before  me.  And 
a  third,  Stephen  said,  there  is  who  wants  me  for  odd  jobs. 

— Italian?    Haines  said  again.    What  do  you  mean? 

— The  imperial  British  state,  Stephen  answered,  his  colour  ris- 
ing, and  the  holy  Roman  catholic  and  apostolic  church. 

Haines  detached  from  his  underlip  some  fibres  of  tobacco  before 
he  spoke. 

— I  can  quite  understand  that,  he  said  calmly.  An  Irishman 
must  think  like  that,  I  daresay.  We  feel  in  England  that  we  have 
treated  you  rather  unfairly.    It  seems  history  is  to  blame. 

The  proud  potent  titles  clanged  over  Stephen's  memory  the 
triumph  of  their  brazen  bells:  ct  in  iinam  sanctam  cathoUcan  et  apos- 
tolican  ecclesiam.  Symbol  of  the  apostles  in  the  mass  for  pope  Mar- 
cellus,  the  voices  blended,  singing  alone,  loud  in  affirmation:  and 
behind  their  chant  the  vigilant  angel  of  the  church  militant  disarmed 
and  menaced  her  heresiarchs.  A  horde  of  heresies  fleeing  with  mitres 
awry:  Photius  and  the  brood  of  mockers  of  whom  Mulligan  was  one, 
and  Arius,  waring  his  life  long  upon  the  consubstantiality  of  the 
Son  with  the  Father  and  Valentine,  spuming  Christ's  terrene  body, 
and  the  subtle  African  heresiarch  Sabellius  who  held  that  the  Father 
wEis  Himself  His  own  Son.  Words  Mulligan  had  spoken  a  moment 
since  in  mockery  to  the  stranger.  Idle  mockery.  The  void  awaits 
surely  all  them  that  weave  the  wind:  a  menace,  a  disarming  and  a 
worsting  from  those  embattled  angels  of  the  church,  Michael's  host. 


The    Little    Review  21 


who  defend  her  ever  in  the  hour  of  conflict  with  their  lances  and 
their  shields. 

Hear,  hear!  Prolonged  applause.    Zut!    Nom  de  Dieu! 

— Of  course  I'm  a  Britisher,  Haines's  voice  said,  and  I  feel  as 
one.  I  don't  want  to  see  my  country  fall  into  the  hands  of  German 
jews  either.    That's  our  national  problem,  I'm  afraid,  just  now. 

Two  men  stood  at  the  verge  of  the  cliff,  watching:  businessman, 
boatman. 

— She's  making  for  Bullock  harbour. 

The  boatman  nodded  towards  the  north  of  the  bay  with  some 
disdain. 

— There's  five  fathoms  out  there,  he  said.  It'll  be  swept  up 
that  way  when  the  tide  comes  in  about  one.    It's  nine  days  today. 

The  man  that  was  drowned.  A  sail  veering  about  the  blank 
bay  waiting  for  a  swollen  bundle  to  bob  up,  roll  over  to  the  sun  a 
puffy  face,  saltwhite.    Here  I  am. 

They  followed  the  winding  path  down  to  the  creek.  Buck 
Mulligan  stood  on  a  stone,  in  shirtsleeves,  his  undipped  tie  rippling 
over  his  shoulder.  A  young  man  cling-ing  to  a  spur  of  rock  near  him, 
moved  slowly  frogwise  his  green  legs  in  the  deep  jelly  of  the  water. 

— Is  the  brother  with  you,  Malachi? 

— Down  in  Westmeath.    With  the  Bannons. 

— Still  there?  I  got  a  card  form  Bannon.  Says  he  found  a 
sweet  young  thing  down  there.    Photo  girl  he  calls  her. 

— Snapshot,  eh?     Brief  exposure. 

Buck  Mulligan  sat  down  to  unlace  his  boots.  An  elderly  man 
shot  up  near  the  spur  of  rock  a  blowing  red  face.  He  scrambled  up 
by  the  stones,  water  glistening  on  his  pate  and  on  its  garland  of 
grey  hair,  water  rilling  over  his  chest  and  paunch  and  spilling  jets 
out  of  his  black  sagging  loincloth. 

Buck  Mulligan  made  way  for  him  to  scramble  past  and,  glanc- 
ing at  Haines  and  Stephen,  crossed  himself  piously  with  his  thumb- 
nail at  brow  and  lips  and  breastbone. 

— Seymour's  back  in  town,  the  young  man  said,  grasping  again 
his  spur  of  rocks.     Chucked  medicine  and  going  in  for  the  army. 

— Ah,  go  to  God!     Buck  Mulligan  said. 

— Going  over  next  week  to  stew.  You  know  that  red  Carlisle 
girl?    Lily. 

—Yes. 

— Spooning  with  him  last  night  on  the  pier.  The  father  is  rotten 
with  money. 

— ^Is  she  up  the  pole? 


22  The    Little    Review 


— Better  ask  Seymour  that. 

— Seymour  a  bleeding  officer!     Buck  Mulligan  said. 

He  nodded  to  himself  as  he  drew  off  hLs  trousers  and  stood  up, 
saying  tritely: 

— Redheaded  women  buck  like  goats. 

He  broke  off  in  alarm,  feeling  his  side  under  his  flapping  shirt. 

— 'My  twelth  rib  is  gone,  he  cried.  I'm  the  Uehcrmcnsch. 
Toothless  Kinch  and  I,  the  supermen. 

He  struggled  out  of  his  shirt  and  flung  it  behind  him  to  where 
his  clothes  lay. 

— Are  you  going  in  here,  Malachi? 

— Yes.    Make  room  in  the  bed. 

The  young  man  shoved  himself  backward  through  the  water 
and  reached  the  middle  of  the  creek  in  two  long  clean  strokes. 
Haines  sat  down  on  a  stone,  smoking. 

— Are  you  not  coming  in,  Buck  Mulligan'' asked. 

— Later  on,  Haines  said.    Not  on  my  breakfast. 

Stephen  turned  away. 

— I'm  going,  Mulligan,  he  said. 

— Give  us  that  key,  Kinch,  Buck  Mulligan  said,  to  keep  my 
chemise  flat. 

Stephen  handed  him  the  key.  Buck  Mulligan  laid  it  across  his 
heaped  clothes. 

— And  twopence,  he  said,  for  a  pint.    Throw  it  there. 

Stephen  threw  two  pennies  on  the  soft  heap.  Buck  Mulligan 
erect,  with  joined  hands  before  him,  said  solemnly: 

— He  who  stealeth  from  the  poor  lendeth  to  the  Lord.  Thus 
spake  Zarathustra. 

His  plump  body  plunged. 

— We'll  see  you  again,  Haines  said,  turning  as  Stephen  walked 
up  the  path. 

— The  Ship,  Buck  Mulligan  cried.    Half  twelve. 

— Good,  Stephen  said. 

He  walked  along  the  upwardcurving  path. 

— Liliata  rutilantium.  Turma  circumdet.  The  priest's  grey 
nimbus  in  a  niche  where  he  dressed  discreetly.  Jiibtlantium  te  vir- 
ginum.    I  will  not  sleep  here  tonight.    Home  also  I  cannot  go. 

A  voice,  sweettoned  and  sustained,  called  to  him  from  the  sea. 
Turning  the  curve  he  waved  his  hand.  It  called  again.  A  sleek 
brown  head  far  out  on  the  water,  round. 

Usurper. 

{to  he  continued) 


The     Little     Review 


23 


IMAGINARY   LETTERS 

(William  Bland  Burn  to  his  Wife) 

Wyndham    Lewis 

Petrograd,  iS th  Feburary,  191 7. 

Dear  Lydd, 

I  am  glad  you  decree  that  the  debate  shall  continue.  You 
seem  to  desire  a  debate  to  the  death. 

I  don't  know  why  my  coming  to  Russia  should  have  provoked 
this  stubborn  battle  in  your  brain;  this  kind  of  revolution  against 
Russia!  I  suppose  you  are  pretty  jealous  of  this  immense  land,  and 
you  perhaps  feel  that  my  liaison  with  it  is  hardly  intellectually 
respectable  .  Russia  is  too  elementary  !  However,  to  approach  your 
latest  objections.  Mine  is  not  really  a  case  of  "national  engoue- 
ment"  as  you  would  persuade  me  (only  engouement  for  Russian 
things  instead  of  those  of  my  own  country) .  All  Russian  books  of  the 
last  twenty  years  that  I  have  read  are  disappointing.  "Sanine"  is 
certainly  not  as  good  as  Bernard  Shaw.  Gorky  was  the  best  figure 
— and  writer.  Living  here,  you  can  get  a  better  sense  of  the  books 
of  the  Russian  writers  of  the  last  century,  but  it  is  not  like  living 
among  their  books  .  Nor  are  the  people  around  you  as  prepossessmg 
as  the  fictitious  nation.  But  where  would  art  be  if  they  were?  The 
Russian  novelists  have  given  an  almost  unexampled  illusion  of  a 
living  people.  Their  Christianity,  good  sense  and  the  method  of 
realism  each  contributed  to  this. 

Not  only  are  most  Russians  not  Dostoevskys,  they  are  not  even 
Volchaninovs  or  Pavel  Pavlovitches.  Raskolnikoffs  and  Golyadkins 
mope  and  trot  about  in  certain  members,  but  they  badly  need  the 
presence  of  their  creator.  When  they  were  looked  at  by  their  great 
brother  he  entered  into  them  as  he  looked  and  they  ran  mad  at  once, 
eventually  exploding  with  energy. 

There  are  masses  of  the  cheaply-energetic  Oriental  (non-Jew) 
and  of  the  unsatisfactory-Teutonic.  The  springs  of  Dostoevsky's 
imagination  I  have  chiefliy  found  in  thick,  pungent,  sud- 
denly   discovered    Oases  ;     in     families ,     restaumnts    or    moods 


34  The     Little     Review 

of  the  town  .  But  it  is  only  the  books  that  matter.  And  the 
Russian  novels  were  made  with  this  material,  condensed,  vividly  ex- 
ploited. They  are  better  books  than  any  Englishman  or  Frenchman 
wrote  at  the  same  period  .  not  because  genius  varies,  but  because  the 
material  was  richer  and  realler.  When  an  Englishman  was  given 
a  similar  chance,  we  threw  up  Shakespeare. 

William  Blake  pushed  on  into  the  unimanent  atmosphere  of 
SfKwks  and  of  lege;id  and  produced  a  powerful  group  of  phantoms. 
He  vituperated  his  enemies — enemies  are  always  real  and  interesting 
— and  plagiarised  children  and  Elizabethans.  In  that  way,  with  a 
queer  and  clever  engineering  of  his  own,  he  climbed  up  where  Shakes- 
peare and  all  successful  genius  resides;  he  established  himself  there 
as  a  matter  of  course;  with  a  proselytizino^  lack  of  self -consciousness 
he  took  up  his  abode  in  that  simple  and  exclusive  heaven — first 
having  enthusiastically  removed  all  his  clothes! 

Now,  we  can  admit  that  a  nation  is  not  necessary  for  a  fine  book. 
If  the  human  material  should  be  found  faulty,  you  can  turn  to  scor- 
pions and  beetles,  or,  like  Blake,  you  can  affect  the  heavily  historied 
bogey;  awaken  the  man  who  built  the  Pyramids  and  pretend  that 
it  was  lie  who  awakened  you. 

And  there  is  the  scholar's  book,  which  is  merely  embarrassed 
by  a  handy  matter,  which  naturally  thrives  on  the  remote,  not 
brought  to  new  life,  matter,  but  left  where  it  is,  with  its  academic 
persj)ectives,  or  whose  only  interest  or  use  for  immediate  things  is 
dispassionate  and  critical  and  whose  success  is  a  structureof  delicate 
adjustments,  not  the  belief  of  an  incurable  love.  All  the  full  and 
tragic  artists  partake  of  the  destiny  of  the  popular  hero;  thousands 
of  people  contribute  to  their  success  only  in  this  case  without  mean- 
ing to;  each  man  or  woman  hands  in  his  or  her  fraction  of  vitality; 
wherever  they  go,  there  is  a  great  crowd  with  them.  Their  brain 
is  the  record  of  their  sympathies,  people  pour  in  and  are  piled  up, 
with  a  persistent  classification,  until  giant-like  and  permanent  im- 
ages, the  "types"  of  drama  or  fiction  are  produced:  Raskolnikoffs, 
Golyadkins  and  Alioshas.  It  is  the  sense  of  power  bestowed  by  this 
throng  that  enables  them  to  create  so  hotly,  and  with  so  unreasonable 
a  faith. 

You  remember  my  remarks  about  Colossi  in  a  former  letter. 
You  can  only  get  Colossi  by  sticknig  two  or  more  men  together. 
The  perfected  unamalgamated  man  recedes  from  any  semblance  of 
human  or  material  power.     As  he  refines  he  loses  in  stamina  and 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  35 

scale,  carried  to  its  farthest  limit  it  is  the  gnat's  song,  a  si^,  a 
shadow.  These  things  are  in  different  categories,  not,  as  is  popularly 
assumed,  a  big  and  a  little  of  the  same  species.  One  thing  is  not 
better  than  the  other.    You  pay  your  money  and  take  your  choice. 

But  when  twenty  men  are  conglomerated  into  a  giant,  it  is 
not,  in  the  case  of  genius,  simply  an  addition  sum.  The  fine  fellow  is 
the  head  of  the  Colossus.  But  we  must  admit  that  he  never  suc- 
ceeds in  quite  actively  canalizing  the  mass.  There  is  always  the 
slovenly  character  of  all  giants  about  the  organism.  His  superb 
megaphone  is  not  so  successful  as  the  attenuated  voice  of  the  whit- 
tled-down  human  reed.  Dostoevsky  was  a  peculiarly  untidy  and  un- 
dependable  freak  of  vastness,  addicted  to  interminable  nervous 
seizures  (do  you  know  of  a  single  story  of  his  in  which  there  is  not 
an  epileptic?),  drunken  to  a  fault;  but  a  true  god.  And  every 
Russian  I  meet  I  know  to  be  a  posthumous  fragment  of  my  favourite 
Deity.  So  there  you  are.  .  It  is  useless  your  talking  about  "na- 
tional engouements" ;  it  is  idle  your  hinting  that  my  caprice  for 
Colossi  (and  such  dirty,  uncouth  and  childish  ones  at  that  —  not 
nice  clean  Greek  ones! )  is  unintelligent  and  compromising.  You 
stick  to  the  gentlemanly  silver  buzzing  of  the  French  critical  p>er- 
fection.  I  wish  to  live  in  the  sanguine,  unsavoury  fairy-land  where 
the  Giants  consort  and  where  the  Man-Child  wanders.  I  hope  this 
will  not  divide  us.  For  I  like  the  fastidious  things  as  well;  as  much 
as  you  do. 

I  now  am  going  to  break  the  ice  and  refer  to  something  that  so 
far,  in  my  shyness,  I  have  avoided.  You,  for  your  part,  have  pre- 
tended also  not  to  have  been  conscious  of  it.  So  we  have  discussed 
nearly  everything  except  this.  I  think  it  is  unfortunate  that  we  have 
not  had  it  out,  before,  and  gazed  at  it  in  mutual  horror. 

I  refer  to  my  ugliness. 

The  horrible  thought  steals  over  me  as  I  write  this  that  you  may 
have  thought  I  considered  myself  handsome — or  at  least  unique! 
And  I  even  seem  to  remember  occasions  on  which  you  looked  quiz- 
zingly  and  pityingly  at  me  when  I  was  speaking  of  beauty;  as  though 
you  considered  that  I  would  not  have  spoken  in  that  way  had  I  not 
imagined  that  I  had  my  share  of  looks.  Also  I  do  not,  let  me  say 
for  your  instruction,  consider  myself  tall.  Unlike  most  little  men, 
I  know  that  I  am  short  and  stunted. 

And  as  to  my  looks,  there  is  no  blotch  or  puff  in  my  face  with 
which  I  am  not  bitterly  acquainted  .  I  know  that  my  lower  lip  pro- 


26  T he    Lit  tie    Review 


trudes  ill-temperedly.  My  hands  are  a  Palagial  nightmare,  ou 
plutot  abyssal.  The  horrible  straight  thick  thatch  of  hair  does  not 
seem  to  me  a  silken  chevelure.  My  stumpy  muscular  limbs,  my  ob- 
jectionable buttocks  that  protrude,  the  back  of  my  head  that  also  pro- 
trudes, preventing  me  from  ever  getting  a  hat  to  fit  me  properly. 
I  have  all  these  details  noted  and  oh!  hated  and  deplored.  My  small 
and  staring  eyes,  with  the  pockets  underneath,  I  know  do  not  re- 
deem, as  eyes  are  said  frequently  to  do,  the  disgusting  mask  in  which 
they  are  set.  I  have  the  face  of  a  blind  man,  sunk  in  a  dark  and 
filthy  stupor;  my  raised  triangular  eyebrows  and  jutting  lip  give 
this  impression.  I  am  physically,  I  know,  one  of  the  most  ungainly 
blighted  and  repusive  of  God's  creatures.  Why,  then,  was  I  filled  so 
full  of  this  will  to  Beauty,  of  these  convulsions  towards  realization  of 
power?  WTiy  was  I  given  the  wisdom  to  hate  myself?  Is  the  body 
I  was  given  such  a  botched  and  valueless  thing,  because  Nature  re- 
garded a  fine  body  as  wasted  in  my  case,  seeing  I  should  live  in  and 
through  other  people,  and  never,  in  that  sense,  be  at  home? 

"Here,  you  haven't  much  use  for  a  showy  thing  of  this  sort, 
Mr.  Burn  .With  a  nobby  brain  like  that  you  won't  have  much  use 
for  these  trifles.  Take  this  poor  devil's,  Mr.  Burn,  you  need  a  fine 
coat  less  than  he  does.  The  World  is  at  your  feet.  /  know,  Mr.  Bum!" 

This  was  chucked  over  to  me!  There  is  probaly  an  imbecile 
somewhere  with  the  head  of  a  god,  and  a  bearing  that  would  be  ap- 
propriate to  me.  Neither  he  nor  I  are  selling  matches  .  But  when  I 
approach  the  world  with  my  books,  they  think  I  am  vending  laces 
and  never  cjuite  get  over  the  notion. 

I  can  console  myself,  however.  I  can  say,  "You  can  enter  into 
his  form  and  possess  it  more  than  he  ever  will  do  himself.  What 
is  your  imagination  for?" 

A  sort  of  burglar's  consolation,  although  damned  real. 

So  this  plague  of  mine  is  probably  a  sacrifice,  I  am  relieving 
someone  of  this  winsome,  glad,  alluring  carcase. 

Alas! 

But  you  will  see  in  all  this,  I  expect,  nothing  but  an  attempt  to 
extenuate  my  ugliness  and  put  it  in  a  more  favourable  light,  a  rather 
romantic  light,  even.  But  I  am  not  doing  that .  I  know  that  there 
is  no  getting  away  from  or  forgiveness  for  such  preposterous  and 
hate-producing  plainness.  For  it  is  a  sort  of  uncomeliness  that 
arouses  one's  worst  feelings;  is  it  not? 


The    Lit  tie    Review  27 


With  such  a  physique,  I  should  never  have  married,  I  am  aware. 
Thank  God,  Yorke,  by  a  miracle  (the  miracle  of  your  beauty,  I  sup- 
pose) appears  to  have  escaped  the  contamination  of  my  flesh  or  to 
have  sailed  over  it  in  some  way. 

But  how  hgrrible  it  must  be  for  you,  my  dear  girl!  A  score  of 
times  I  have  said  to  myself  that  I  would  not  come  back  to  you,  but 
release  you  from  such  a  repulsive  little  satyr. 

All  cats  are  grey  in  the  dark,  we  know.  But  how  that  ugly 
bumpy  little  body,  and  big  head,  with  its  rough  red  puffy  skin  must 
disgust  you  when  I  take  you  in  my  arms — you,  who  have  a  dower  of 
bodily  perfection  and  whom  I  smirch  even  at  this  distance  in  thinking 
of  you.  And  the  abominable  lechery  that  the  sight  of  you  awakens 
in  me.    What  a  gruesome  beast  I  must  be! 

Can  you  stand  me?    Tell  me  the  truth! 

We  have  not  got  on  quite  so  well  lately.  Your  letters  are  ^curi- 
ous. You  seem  to  be  becoming  unduly  critical  of  my  mind,  a  ten- 
dency you  have  not  formerly  displayed.  Are  you  accusing  my  mind 
of  what  you  would  really  say  of  my  body?  Is  it  because  you  have 
never  been  harsh  enough  to  curse  and  comment  upon  my  distress- 
ing person,  that  you  now  attack  my  mind?  Must  you  abuse  and 
at  last  complain  of  something? 

Perhaps  this  letter  may  deflect  your  criticism  into  its  natural 
channel'.  Or  do  you  consider  my  mental  enthusiasms  part  and  parcel 
of  my  ugliness?  Do  you  see  my  twisted  and  thwarted  body  with  a 
wave  of  exasperation,  in  my  enthusiasm  for  the  epileptic  pages  of 
the  unfortunate  Feodor? 

One  truth,  however,  I  have  tested  enough  for  it  to  be  no  more 
experimental.  I  am  fixed  on  that.  The  body  does  not  matter  the 
smallest  fraction  where  the  mind  is  concerned.  I  can  imagine 
beauty  as  fluently  and  fully  as  if  I  had  the  head  of  Apollo.  The 
smallness  of  my  eyes  does  not  contract  the  surging  and  spreading 
of  my  understanding.  The  twists  in  a  body  can  only  impress  them- 
selves on  a  spirit  that  dwells  constantly  therein.  Mine  comes  back 
to  its  disgraceful  bed,  and  lies  cramped  and  ill  in  it.  But  it  was 
nurtured  straight  before  it  ever  lay  there.  A  fine  and  comely  ap- 
pearance is  useful  for  repose  only.  Goethe's  god-^like  person  gave 
him  plenty  of  calm  sleep.  If  I  said  too  much  you  would  sneer  and 
think  that  the  grapes  were  sour ! !  If  my  body  were  weakly  and  sick 
and  my  mind  were  one  of  those  that  had  the  power  to  go  here  and 
there  and  break  into  other  minds,  that  body  would  not  prevent  me 


28  The     Little     Review 

from  imagining  physical  heroism.  Or  rather.  I  could  imagine  it  no 
better  if  my  mind  had  l>een  originally  installed  in  a  sinewy  carcase, 
like  Hackensmidt's.  I  am  debarred  from  nothing  in  my  world:  onl\ 
from  you. 

I  know  I  have  not  got  you  as  I  otherwise  should.  1  know  it 
was  madness  to  choose  such  a  beauty. 

Schopenhauer's  wretched  phrase  "Women  consider  that  they 
supply  the  beauty"  had  stuck  in  my  head.  And  yet  why  abuse  him? 
It  is  true,  up  to  a  point,  women  do  reply  for  the  beauty.  But!- 
Obviously  there  is  a  limit  beyond  which  they  are  likely  to  regard 
their  proverbial  fairness  as  inadeciuatel  My  face,  I  am  aware.  - 
far  the  other  side  of  that  limit! 

You  know  how  physical  beauty  knocks  me  over.  The  "beauti- 
ful young  man"  species  holds  me  as  tongue-tied  and  gets  me  In  the 
same  way  that  social  eminence  does  the  humble  or  inexperienced.  I 
simply  stand  gaping  at  a  handsome  young  man.  Each  of  his  ges- 
tures or  smiles  is  balm  to  me.  My  face,  like  some  belching  ocean 
plant,  spread  towards  the  light,  seems  to  expand  in  front  of  his  come- 
liness in  the  idiotic  hope  of  a  cure.  Such  boys  are  as  soothing  as 
rain  to  a  man  with  a  fever.  And  after  passing  some  time  with  one 
of  these  dazzling  pictures,  I  feel  less  ugly  myself,  instead  of,  as  you 
would  suppose,  uglier  by  contrast.  Women  do  not  affect  me  in  the 
same  way,  I  do  not  feel  that  their  beauty  is  so  hard  or  so  deep; 
therefore  that  the  same  divine  properties  of  healing  do  not  go  with  it. 

Young  Adrian  Mitchell,  Willie  Plant,  Menzies,  Peele:  willowy, 
well  dressed,  bland  perfection!  They  could  do  nothing  wrong  in 
my  eyes. 

Women  must  feel  cheap  beside  a  really  beautiful  young  man. 

But  beauty  of  any  sort  takes  my  breath  away  and  routs  all  my 
unbattled  bag  of  tricks  —  dreams,  values,  prejudices. 

And  so  in  this  way,  too,  my  ugliness  is  a  bad  weakness,  and  is 
an  element  of  unreliability  in  my  life.  It  is,  from  another  stand- 
point, of  serious  worldly  disadvantage  to  me.  Women  simply  will 
not  stand  it  or  overlook  it.  But  men  also  do  not  consider  my  pecu- 
liar ill-looks  as  consonant  with  what  my  books  claim;  wdth  what  I 
know  my  writing  is. 

I  enter  a  room — there  stands  before  the  assembled  company  a 
walking  lampoon  of  Mankind;  for  those  of  penetration  a  sort  of  lewd 
drunken  and  preposterous  version  of  William  Blake,  his  bottom  and 
the  back  of  his  head  sticking  waggishly  out,  an  idiotic  grin  on  his 


The    Little    Review  29 


face!     What  a  reincarnation!     If  I  could  only  have  my  posterior 
shaved  down  a  bit! 

I  think  I  must  have  convinced  you  that  my  silence  has  not  hid- 
den complacency.  Possibly  that  huge  mass  of  humility  at  the  rear 
of  my  cranium  Should  not  be  so  despised,  although  nothing  can  com- 
pensate me  for  those  horrible  cushions  that  prop  me  up  like  a  child 
when  I  sit  down. 

The  choice  of  such  an  extremely  good  looking  woman  as  yourself 
for  my  wife  was  the  result  of  all  that  I  have  just  been  explaining  to 
you.  Beauty  was  all  I  wanted  to  begin  with,  not  children,  flea 
hunter,  gooseberry  or  canned  meat. 

It  was  only  when  I  married  you  and  duly  found  you  undressed 
at  night,  that  the  dull  old  Nature-hack  woke  up  and  gave  a  snort. 
He  became  an  institution.  Familiarity  bred  contempt.  I  produced 
Yorke!  I  was  mildly  surprised  to  find  myself  on  such  intimate  terms 
with  anything  so  beautiful.  No  beautiful  man  could  stand  as  much 
ugliness  as  you  have. 

For  a  long  time  I  have  felt  that  I  had  your  secret,  that  you 
were  not  really  of  the  Beautiful,  but  in  reality  ugly,  like  me,  and 
that  your  passions  put  you  in  my  side.  But  When  one  says  that  you 
are  a  woman,  ca  dit  tout. 

Let  us  see  what  your  next  letter  will  be! 

W.  Bland  Burn. 


Petrograd,  gth  March  191 7. 
Dear  Lydia, 

Your  letter  was  short  and  preternaturally  unsweet.  You  drop 
the  discussion  entirely;  I  at  least  succeeded  in  making  you  loosen 
your  hold  on  that. 

My  photograph  of  myself  meets  with  a  very  cold  reception. 
In  fact,  your  undemonstrativeness,  amounting  to  disdain,  has  hurt 
me  very  much!  Cheerless  and  unprepossessing  as  it  is,  you  might 
have  paid  a  little  more  attention  to  it.  After  all,  it  is  me:  Bland, 
your  husband! — need  I  add,  Yorke's  father? 

Or  perhaps  I  am  not  Yorke's  father? 

Yes,  I  am.    I  should  know  that  tell-tale  rump  anywhere. 

Your  letter  I  find  wounding,  there,  in  two  ways.    First,  you  ill- 


30  The    Little    Review 

naturedly  drop  our  little  controversy.  That  was  disagreeably  meant. 
And  secondly,  the  first  photograph  that  a  husband  sends  to  his  loving 
wife  is  ignored  and  persiflage  opened  to  a  flank. 

In  exchange  for  my  aunt  sallies  you  send  me  a  very  disagreeable 
object.  Was  it  necessary?  Am  I  expected  to  call  you  "my  Gothic 
husband?"  I  am  not  going  to.  Your  vanity  finds  strange  paths 
and  means  to  satisfy  itself. 

I  suppose  I  shall  be  accused  of  "obtuseness"  in  your  next  letter 
if  I  do  not  rave  over  the  abortion  you  sent  me  ana  say  how  much 
character  and  genius  there  is  in  your  lip  and — the  other  items. 

Decidedly,  times  have  changed!  A  charming  wife!  Are  you 
too  fastidious  to  refer  to  parts  of  my  anatomy  more  distinctly  than 
— "other  items"?  Are  they  to  be  relegated  with  dignity  to  the  dis- 
tant plane  of  an  item?  And  they  are  not  items!  Ah,  no  certainly 
not  items,  whatever  else  they  may  be!  As  to  my  lip,  it  may  not 
contain  any  genius,  but  you  have  frequently  placed  your  two  lips 
on  either  side  of  it  and  given  a  throaty  trill  of  a  laugh,  provoking  it 
to  libidious  misdemeanour  you  would  prefer  to  forget.  You  would 
prefer  to  forget? — And  our  frolics  have  borne  fruit!  You  are 
after  all,  my  dear  lady,  only  a  reproductive  machine,  painted  up  in 
order  not  to  be  too  unappetising.  But  you  are  a  machine  that  has 
two  legs  which  enable  you  at  any  time  to  run  away  if  you  feel  in- 
clined. Any  time  in  the  last  five  years  you  could  have  done  so. 
The  first  inclination  that  you  have  shown  to  use  your  legs  in  that 
way  has  been  in  the  last  few  months.  I  therefore  must  suppose  that 
you  have  soma  adulterous  plans,  in  which,  I  do  not,  however,  take 
the  faintest  interest.  You  can  burn  my  letters  and  photographs, 
and  pawn  the  jewels  and  other  pledges  of  my  unhappy  love!  Now 
go  to  Hell. 

— Yours, 

W.  B.  Burn. 

(to  be  continued) 


The    Little    Review    ,•  31 

MATINEE 

Jessie    Dismorr 

The  Croisette  trembles  in  the  violent  matutinal  light;  shapes  quicken 
and  pass;  the  day  moves.  My  nerves  spring  to  the  task  of 
quisiitiveness. 

The  secret  of  my  success  is  a  knowledge  of  the  limitedness  of  time. 

Economy  is  scientific:  I  understand  the  best  outlay  of  intention. 

Within  this  crazy  shell,  an  efficient  machinery  mints  satisfactions. 

Your  pity  is  a  systematic  mistake.  I  may  yet  grow  arrogant  on  the 
wastage  of  other  lives.    The  holes  of  my  sack  spill  treasure. 

Who  but  I  should  be  susceptible  to  the  naked  pressure  of  things? 

Between  me  and  apprenhension  no  passions  draw  their  provoking 
dissimulative  folds. 

I  have  not  clouded  heaven  with  the  incense  of  personal  demand. 

Myself  and  the  universe  are  two  entities.  Those  unique  terms  admit 
the  possibility  of  clean  intercourse. 

All  liaisons  smell  of  an  inferior  social  grade;  but  alliance  can  dis- 
pense with  fusion  and  touch. 

I  treat  with  respect  the  sparkling  and  gesticulating  dust  that  con- 
fronts me:  of  it  are  compounded  fruits  and  diamonds,  superb 
adolescents,  fine  manners. 

This  pigment,  disposed  by  the  ultimate  vibrations  of  force,  paints 
the  universe  in  a  contemporary  mode. 

I  am  glad  it  is  up-to-date  and  ephemeral;  that  I  am  to  be  diverted 
by  a  succession  of  fantasies. 

The  static  cannot  claim  my  approval  .  I  live  in  the  act  of  departure. 
Eternity  is  for  those  who  can  dispose  of  an  amplitude  of  time. 

Pattern  is  enough.     I  pray  you,  do  not  mention  the  soul. 

Give  me  detail  and  the  ardent  ceremonial  of  commonplaces  that 
means  nothing. 

Oh,  the  ennui  of  inconceivable  space!  My  travelling  spirit  will 
taste  too  soon  of  emptiness. 

I  thrill  to  the  microscopic.  I  plunder  the  close-packed  cells  and 
burrows  of  life. 

The  local  has  always  the  richness  of  brocade:  it  is  worth  while  to 
explore  the  design. 


32  *     The    Lit  tig    Review 


I  spell  happiness  out  of  dots  and  dashes;  a  ray,  a  tone,  the  insig- 
nificance of  a  dangling  leaf. 

Provided  it  has  a  factual  existence  the  least  atom  will  suffice  my 
need. 

But  I  cannot  stomach  shadows.  It  is  certain  that  the  physical  round 
world  would  fit  my  mouth  like  a  lolly-pop. 

You  ask:  To  what  end  this  petty  and  ephemeral  busines,  this  last 
push  of  human  sensation? 

Is  one  then  a  neophyte  in  philosophy,  demanding  reasons  and  results? 

I  proclaim  life  to  the  end  a  piece  of  artistry,  essentially  idle  and 
exquisite. 

The  trinkets  stored  within  my  coffin  shall  outlast  my  dust. 


THE    CLASSICS    "ESCAPE" 
Ezra    Pound 

IT  IS  well  that  the  citizen  should  be  acquainted  with  the  laws  of 
his  country.  In  earlier  times  the  laws  of  a  nation  were  graven 
upon  tablets  and  set  up  in  the  market  place.  I  myself  have  seen  a  sign 
"Bohemians  are  not  p>ermitted  within  the  precincts  of  this  com- 
mune"; but  the  laws  of  a  great  republic  are  too  complex  and  arcane 
to  permit  of  this  simple  treatment.  I  confess  to  having  been  a  bad 
citizen,  to  just  the  extent  of  having  been  ignorant  that  at  any  mo- 
ment my  works  might  be  classed  in  law's  eye  with  the  inventions  of 
the  late  Dr.  Condom. 

I  have  been  unable  to  speak  promptly  regarding  the  suppression 
of  the  October  number  ;  I  am  a  long  way  from  the  New  York  Post 
Office. 

However,  as  I.  whom  the  law  appears  to  concern,  was  ignor- 
ant of  it,  it  is  possible  that  others  with  only  a  mild  interest  in  liter- 
ature may  be  equally  ignorant  ;   I  therefore  quote  the  law  : 

Section  211  of  the  United  States  Criminal  Code  provides: 
"Every   obscene,    lewd,    or   lascivious,    and    every    filthy,    book    pamphlet, 
picture,  paper,  letter,  writing,  print,  or  other  publication  of  an  indecent  char- 


The    Little    Review 


33 


acter  and  every  article  or  thing  designed,  adapted  or  intended  for  preventing 
conception  or  producing  abortion,  or  for  any  indecent  or  immoral  use;  and 
every  article,  instrument,  substance,  drug,  medicine,  or  thing  which  is  adver- 
tised or  described  in  a  manner  calculated  to  lead  another  to  use  or  apply.it  for 
preventing  conception  or  producing  abortion,  or  for  any  indecet  or  immoral 
purpose;  and  every  written  or  printed  card,  letter,  circular,  book,  pamphlet, 
advertisement,  or  notice  of  any  kind  giving  information  directly  or  indirectly, 
where,  or  how,  or  from  whom,  or  by  what  means  any  of  the  hereinbefore- 
mentioned  matters,  articles,  or  things  may  be  obtained  or  made,  or  where  or 
by  whom  any  act  or  operation  of  any  kind  for  the  procuring  or  producing  of 
abortion  will  be  done  or  performed,  or  how  or  by  what  means  conception  may 
be  prevented  or  abortion  produced,  whether  sealed  or  unsealed;  and  every  letter, 
packet,  or  package,  or  other  mail  matter  containing  any  filthy  ,vile  or  indecent 
thing,  device,  or  substance;  any  every  paper,  writing,  advertisement,  or  repre- 
sentation that  any  article,  instrument,  substance,  drug,  medicine,  or  thing  may, 
or  can  be,  used  or  applied  for  preventing  conception  or  producing  abortion,  or 
for  any  indecent  or  immoral  purpose;  and  every  description  calculated  to  induce 
or  incite  a  person  to  so  use  or  apply  any  such  article,  instrument,  substance, 
drug,  medicine,  or  thing,  is  hereby  declared  to  be  non-mailable  matter  and  shall 
not  be  conveyed  in  the  mails  or  delivered  from  any  post-office  or  by  any  letter 
carrier.  Whoever  shall  knowingly  deposit,  or  cause  to  be  deposited  for  mailing 
or  delivery,  anything  declared  by  this  section  to  be  non-mailable,  or  shall 
knowingly  take,  or  cause  the  same  to  be  taken,  from  the  mails  for  the  purpose 
of  circulating  or  disposing  thereof,  or  of  aiding  in  the  circulation  or  disposition 
thereof,  shall  be  fined  not  more  than  five  thousand  dollars,  or  imprisoned  not 
more  than  five  years,  or  both". 

That,  gentle  reader  ,  is  the  law ,  the  amazing  ,  grotesque ,  and 
unthinkable ,   ambiguous  law  of  our  country  . 

The  Little  Review  will  continue  to  print  that  law  monthly  in 
order  that  it  may  become  known.  For  it  is  well  that  the  citizens 
of  a  country  should  be  aware  of  its  laws. 

It  is  not  for  me  to  promulgate  obiter  dicta  ;  to  say  that  what- 
ever the  cloudiness  of  its  phrasing  this  law  was  obviously  designed 
to  prevent  the  circulation  of  immoral  advertisements,  propaganda 
for  secret  cures,  and  slips  of  paper  that  are  part  of  the  bawdy  house 
business;  that  it  was  not  designed  to  prevent  the  mailing-  of  Dante> 
Villon,  and  Catullus.    Whatever  the  subjective  attitude  of  the  fram- 


B^ 


34  The     Little     Review 

ers  of  this  legislation,  \\t  have  fortunately  a  decision  from  a  learned 
judge  to  guide  us  in  its  working. 

"I  have  little  doubt  that  numerous  really  great  writings  would  come 
under  the  ban  if  tests  that  are  frequently  current  were  applied,  and  these  ap- 
proved publications  doubtless  at  times  escape  only  because  they  come  within 
the  term  "classics",  which  means,  for  the  purpose  of  the  application  of  the 
statute,  that  they  are  ordinarily  immune  from  interference,  because  they  have 
the  sanction  of  age  and  fame  and  USUALLY  APPEAL  TO  A  COMPARATIVE- 
LY LIMITED  NUMBER  OF  READERS.* 

The  capitals  are  my  own.  Judge  Hand  was  quoted  in  our 
December  issue. 

The  gentle  reader  will  picture  to  himself  the  state  of  America 
IF  the  classics  were  widely  read;  IF  these  books  which  in  the  begin- 
ning lifted  mankind  from  savagery,  and  which  from  a.d.  1400  on- 
ward have  gradually  redeemed  us  from  the  darkness  of  mediavalism, 
should  be  read  by  the  millions  who  now  consume  Mr.  Hearst  and  the 
Lady's  Home  Journal  !  !  !  !  !  ! 

Also  there  are  to  be  no  additions.  No  living  man  is  to  contri- 
bute or  to  attempt  to  contribute  to  the  classics.  Obviously  even 
though  he  acquire  fame  before  publishing,  he  can  not  have  the  sanc- 
tion of  "  age". 

Our  literature  does  not  fall  under  an  inquisition;  it  does  not 
bow  to  an  index  arranged  by  a  council.  It  is  subject  to  the  taste  of 
one  individual. 

Our  hundred  and  twenty  millions  of  inhabitants  desire  their 
literature  sdfted  for  them  by  one  individual  selected  without  any 
examination  of  his  literary  qualifications. 

I  can  not  write  of  this  thing  in  heat.  It  is  a  far  too  serious 
matter. 

We  shall  continue  to  publish  the  text  of  this  law  until  the 
law  is  amended.  Let  us  pray  for  a  speedy  victory  in  the  field,  but 
let  us  also  recognize  that  it  will  not  be  acclerated  by  a  prolongation 
of  our  internal  darkness. 

No  more  damning  indictment  of  American  civilization  has  been 
written  than  that  contained  in  Judge  Hand's  "opinion".  The  clas- 
sics "escape".     They  are  "immune"  "ordinarily". 


TheLittleReview  35 


Cantico    Del    Sole 

The  thought  of  what  America  would  be  like 
If  the  classics  had  a  wide  circulation 

Troubles  my  sleep , 
The  thought  of  what  America  , 
The  thought  of  what  America  , 
The  thought  of  what  America  would  be  like 
If  the  classics  had  a  wide  circulation 

Troubles  my  sleep  , 
Nunc  dimittis ,   Now  lettest  thou  thy  servant , 
Now  lettest  thou  thy  servant 

Depart  in  peace . 
The  thought  of  what  America  , 
The  thought  of  what  America  , 
The  thought  of  what  America  would  be  like 
If  the  classics  had  a  wide  circulation  ...       . 

Oh  well  !  \ 

It  troubles  my  sleep. 

Ezra  I.  Y.  H.      X. 

"Tarr",     by    Wyndham     Lewis 

"Tarr"  is  the  most  vigorous  and  volcanic  English  novel  of  our 
time.  Lewis  is  that  rarest  of  phenomena,  an  Englishman  who  has 
achieved  the  triumph  of  being  also  an  European.  He  is  the  only 
English  writer  who  can  be  compared  with  Dostoevsky,  and  he  is  more 
rapid  than  Dostoevsky.  his  mind  travels  with  greater  celerity,  with 
more  unexpectedness,  but  he  loses  none  of  Dosteovsky's  effect  of 
mass  and  of  weight. 

Tarr  is  a  man  of  genius  surrounded  by  the  heavy  stupidities  of 
the  half-cultured  latin  quarter;  the  book  delineates  his  explosions  in 
this  oleaginous  mileau;  as  well  as  the  debacle  of  the  unintelligent 
emotion-dominated  Kreisler.  They  are  the  two  titanic  characters 
in  contemporary  English  fiction  .  Wells's  clerks,  Bennet's  "cards" 
and  even  Conrad's  Russian  vilHans  do  not  ''bulk  up"  against  them. 

Only  in  James  Joyce's  Stephen  Dedalus  does  one  find  an  equal 
intensity,  and  Joyce  is,  by  comparison,  cold  and  meticulous,  where 
Lewis  is,  if  uncouth, 'at  any  rate  brimming  with  energy,  the  man 
with  a  leaping  mind.  —  Ezra  Pound. 


36  The    Little    Review 

WOMEN  AND  MEN 

Ford    Madox    Hueffer 

II. 

The    Literature    of    the    Subject 

AND  when  Ghama  had  made  Man  he  desired  that  Man  should 
have  a  companion.  So  he  took  the  coldness  of  ice  and  the  heat 
of  fire  and  the  softness  of  the  dove's  breast  and  the  ferocity  of  the 
tiger  and  the  fidelity  of  the  Chakrawakra  and  the  untrustworthyness 
of  the  Bandalog  and  the  humility  of  the  gazelle  and  the  vanity  of  the 
peacock  and  the  soft  and  weeping  voice  of  the  nightingale  and  the 
loquacity  of  the  mocking  bird  and  of  all  these  ingredients  he  fash- 
ioned Woman. 

And  Man  rejoiced  in  his  companion  and  went  away  with  her. 
But  wi±in  a  fortnight  he  returned  to  Ghama  and  said: 

"Oh  Ghama  take  away  this  creature  with  which  thou  hast  affict- 
ed  me;  for  all  day  she  chatters  so  that  my  head  is  like  to  burst  and 
all  night  she  is  never  silent  so  that  I  am  unable  to  get  any  sleep  and 
her  laugh  is  as  discordant  as  the  cracking  of  pine  trees  in  a  gale. 
And  water  pours  unceasingly  from  her  eyes  so  that  life  is  a  bur- 
den to  me." 

Then  Ghama  took  Woman  to  himself  again. 

But  within  a  week  the  man  came  back  to  Ghama  and  said: 

"Oh  Ghama  give  me  back  again  her  that  you  have  taken. 
For  my  ears  crave  incessantly  for  the  soft  laughter  of  her  voice  so 
that  by  day  I  have  no  rest.  And  at  night  I  am  consumed  as  if  by 
fire  with  the  desire  of  her  warm  caresses.  By  day  the  light  of  the 
sun  is  a  burden  if  I  have  not  her  companionship  in  the  shade  of  the 
desert  and  at  night  the  light  of  the  moon  is  blighted  if  she  is  not 
with  me  when  I  walk  by  the  broad  and  misty  e.xp&nses  of  the  river." 

Then  Gam'a  gave  Woman  back  to  Man.  .^nd  within  three  days 
Man  came  back  again  to  Ghama  and  said: 

"Oh  Great  God  Ghama  take  away  now  again  this  creature 
with  which  thou  hast  cursed  me.  For  she  is  possessed  of  all  those 
evils  which  before  I  reported  to  you  and  in  a  ten  times  worse  degree. 


The    Little    Review  37 

So  that  in  truth  I  cannot  support  my  life  with  her." 

"Neither  canst  thou  Hve  without  her,"  said  Ghama. 

Then  said  Man : 

"Oh  Ghama,  what  sort  of  a  creature  is  this  thou  hast  created 
since  I  cannot  live  either  with  her  or  without  her." 

"That  I  cannot  tell  you,"  Ghama  answered. 

The  Digit  oj  the  Moon. 

I  was  once  very  well  acquainted  with  two  Russian  exiles  who 
had  escaped  from  the  East  of  Siberia.  They  had  gone  overland,  hid- 
ing in  forests,  crossing  immense  deserts,  swimming  broad  rivers 
and  avoiding  humanity  except  when  it  was  absolutely  necessary  for 
them  to  purchase  food  at  the  hut  of  a  native.  At  the  start  they  were 
the  best  of  friends.  Their  tastes,  their  aims,  their  political  aspira- 
tions and  their  friendships  they  both  held  in  common.  There  was 
nothing  about  which  they  could  differ  but  the  journey — the  desolate 
and  solitary  journey  lasted  for  months  and  months  over  that  im- 
mense stretch  of  territory.  They  were  absolutely  alone;  they  spoke 
to  no  other  soul.  And  gradually  these  itwo  men  who  had  as  it  were 
their  souls  in  common,  who  suffered  the  same  perils,  who  relied  upon 
each  other's  help  to  overcome  the  same  difficulties — gradually  these 
two  men  began  to  differ.  They  differed  about  the  uniform  of  the 
convict  guards  on  the  island  of  Sagalien,  about  the  date  of  the  birth 
of  Ivan  the  Terrible,  about  the  doctrines  of  Karl  Marx.  The  quarrels 
grevv^  more  and  more  bitter;  they  were  entirely  alone.  At  last  they 
travelled  each  upon  the  further  horizon,  just  keeping  each  other  in 
sight  but  never  speaking,  never  shaking  hands.  So  it  went  on  for 
months  and  months.  And  one  of  my  friends  assured  me  that  if  the 
other  man  united  to  him  in  soul  and  purpose  had  come  near  him,  such 
was  his  nervous  exacerbation  that  he  would  undoubtedly  have  shot 
his  companion  and  have  perished  miserably  himself.  On  the  other 
hand  when  for  a  whole  day  he  lost  sight  of  his  friend  he  nearly  went 
mad  from  loneliness. 

"It  was  very  funny,"  he  said  reflectively,  "I  could  neither  live 
with  him  nor  without  him." 

It  is  such  a  journey  as  this  over  the  months  and  years  of  time 
and  the  forests  and  deserts  of  a  life-time  that  a  man  undertakes 
when  he  selects  a  woman  for  his  mate  and  sets  out.  And  it  will  be 
observed  that  the  words  used  by  my  Russian  friend  about  his  com- 
panion are  identical  with  those  uSed  by  man  about  woman  in  the 


38  The    Little    Review 


Sudian  legend  that  I  have  quoted.* 

The  Englishman's  mind  is  of  course  made  up  entirely  of  quo- 
tations. A  person  entirely  without  intellect  himself,  he  is  the  man 
of  all  the  world  who  best  knows  his  poets.  And  the  poets  best 
known  to  him  are  of  course  Shakespeare  and  the  English  translators 
of  the  Bible.  When  his  quotations  do  not  come  from  either  Shakes- 
p)eare  or  the  Bible  he  thinks  they  do,  so  that  it  comes  to  the  same 
thing.  The  moment  you  put  before  him  any  argument  he  at  once 
floors  you  with  a  quotation  which  has  a  Biblical  or  a  Shakespearean 
ring.  It  will  be  observed  that  the  experience  ofTlaubert  and  his 
friend  was  exactly  parallel  to  that  of  my  two  Russians.  Yet,  Du 
Camp  never  said  that  Flaubert  was  like  a  woman.  He  just  said  that 
the  great  writer  got  on  his  nerves. 

The  Englishman  has  of  course  two  quotations  about  woman. 
One  of  them  generally  he  knows  to  come  from  Byron  and  the  other 
from  the  Vicar  of  Wakefield  — 

"Oh  woman  in  our  hours  of  ease''  .  .  . 

And— 

"When  lovely  w^oman  stoops  to  folly" 

So  that  outside  Shakespeare  he  gathers  that  woman  is  uncertain 
coy  and  hard  to  please — which  is  all  that  he  knows  of  the  quotation 
from  Byron.  He  also  gathers  from  Goldsmith  that  she  finds  too  late 
that  men  betray,  and  this  makes  him  rather  proud  of  himself  as  a 
potential  "gay  dog". 

To  the  Bible  he  goes  for  guidance  as  a  rule  upon  most  matters 
— except  about  women.     He  regards  of  course  the  Holy  Scriptures 


*  Note :  Such  instances  are  by  no  means  uncommon  when  two  men  set 
out  upon  journeys  together.  There  is  an  exactly  parallel  instance  in  the  caae 
of  Flaubert  and  Maxime  du  Camp.  They  journeyed  together  into  the  deserts 
of  Egypt.  They  were  the  closest  of  friends.  But  at  one  time  the  society  of 
Flaubert  got  to  such  an  extent  on  the  nerves  of  Du  Camp  that,  says  ce  cher 
Maxime: 

"Je  n'y  tins  plus;  une  pensee  terrible  me  secoua.  Je  me  dis:  'je  vais  le 
tuer!  Je  pouseai  mon  dromadaire  jusqu'a  le  toucher,  je  lui  pris  le  bras:  'Ou 
veux-tu  te  tenir?  En  arriere  ou  en  avant?'  II  me  repondit:  'J'irai  en  avant!' 
J'arretai  mon  dromadaire  at  quand  notre  petite  troupe  fut  a  deux  cents  paa 
en  avant  de  moi,  je  repris  ma  marche.  "  Le  soir  je  laissai  Flaubert  au  milieu> 
de  no8  ho/nmes  et  j'allai  preparer  ninn  lit  de  sable  a  plus  de  deux  cents  metres 
du  campement." 


T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review  39 

as  works  too  sacred  to  be  used  in  the  acquiring  of  merely  worldly 
knowledge.  The  only  women  that  he  much  considers  in  the  Bible 
are  Delilah  and  Ruth.  The  Virgin  Mary  he  does  not  much  care  to 
think  about:  his  tendency  is  faintly  to  regard  Her  as  an  improper 
member  of  an  otherwise  respectable  family.  He  is  not  a  very 
logical  person,  God's  Englishman.  Delilah  he  will  not  much  think 
of  because  he  wears  his  hair  short.  But  when  it  comes  to  Ruth  there 
is  no  Englishman  who  cannot  give  you  the  quotation  about  her.  I 
can  do  it  myself. 

And  Ruth  said: 

"Entreat  me  not  to  leave  thee;  or  to  leave  off  from  following 
after  thee. 

"For  where  thou  goest  I  will  go  and  where  thou  lodgest  I  will 
lodge.    Thy  people  shall  be  my  people  and  thy  God  my  God. 

"Where  thou  diest  will  I  die  and  there  will  I  be  buried. 

"The  Lord  do  so  to  me  and  more  also  if  aught  but  death  part 
thee  and  me." 

This  the  excellent  Englishman  —  before  marriage  —  regards 
as  the  whole  duty  of  woman.  After  his  marriage  his  view  changes 
somewhat.  He  rather  objects  to  her  entreating  him  not  to  leave 
her.  He  goes  to  his  club  where  the  hall  porter  has  the  strictest  possi- 
ble injunction  to  let  nothing  in  petticoats  enter.  But  the  woman 
having  been  carefully  taught  by  the  man  has  a  general  idea  that  the 
only  person  who  ought  to  stop  her  is  the  keeper  of  the  gates  of  a 
suburban  cemetery.  This  causes  a  good  many  misunderstandings 
in  the  course  of  many  lives.  For  the  woman  as  a  rule  does  not  un- 
derstand that  when  she  was  told  to  behave  like  Ruth  the  gentleman 
did  not  really  mean  it. 

Roughly  speaking,  in  Germany  the  woman  is  better  drilled  than 
in  England.  It  is  not  so  long  since  I  saw  a  dinner  party  of  German 
professors.  The  gentlemen  were  all  eating  an  enormous  and  excel- 
lent repast.  The  wives  sat  round  the  walls  of  the  dining-room 
knitting.  They  knew  they  were  the  inferior  animals.  They  had 
been  carefully  taught  even  before  marriage  that  they  were  not  Ruth. 
Besides  Ruth  said  nothing  about  dinners  .  Perhaps  she  did  not  ex- 
pect to  eat  with  Boaz. 

In  France  where  they  manage  these  things  better  they  do  not 
read  the  Bible.  That  makes  them  inferior  Christians — inferior 
creatures  altogether.  But  whilst  the  French  have  not  their  eyes  on 
the  dizzy  altitude  where  our  gaze  is  permanently  fixed,  they  have  the 


40  The    Little    Review 

leisure  to  evolve  a  fairly  satisfactory  arrangement  as  to  the  living 
together  of  the  sexes.  It  is  perfectly  true  that  every  Englishman  and 
every  German  would  tell  you  that  every  French  husband  is  un- 
faithful. So  he  probably  is.  But  then  every  English  and  every 
German  husband— though  he  will  not  tell  you  so — knows  that  he  is 
much  more  unfaithful  than  any  mere  Frenchman  could  be.  Isn't 
that  why  we  go  to  Paris?  Yes  surely  and  ginger  shall  be  hot  in  the 
mouth. 

The  real  difference  is  that  the  Frenchwoman,  not  having  it 
perpetually  dinned  into  her  that  she  is  Ruth,  does  not  expect  much 
fidelity  from  her  husband  and  what  the  eye  does  not  see  the  heart 
does  not  grieve  after.  On  the  other  hand  the  French  woman  takes  a 
great  deal  of  care  to  have  a  controlling  voice  in  her  husband's  busi- 
ness affairs.  There  is'  no  inferiority  in  her  consciousness  .  She  knows 
that  she  is  a  better  business  man  than  her  husband.  But  if  he  is  a 
good  boy  she  lets  him  go  out  and  play  now  and  then.  And  the  net 
result  is  that  one  does  not  hear  in  a  French  club  the  imbecilities 
about  women  that  one  will  hear  in  an  English  or  a  German  one. 

(In  America  where  they  have  not  begun  to  think  about  life  but 
merely  exhaust  themselves  in  the  uplifting  search  after  the  dollar, 
the  men  are  entirely  emasculated.  They  never  talk  about  women  at 
all  in  their  clubs.  Poor  America!  Like  the  young  puppy  it  has  all 
its  troubles  before  it.  As  it  at  present  stands  the  United  States  has 
reduced  the  English  and  the  German  system  to  lunacy.  France 
on  the  other  hand  has  advanced  that  system  to  a  reasonable  modus 
Vivendi. 

The  most  important,  as  it  is  the  most  singular,  of  contributions 
to  modern  literature  on  tlie  sex  question  is  an  extraordinary  work 
called  in  English.-  "Sex  and  Character".  This  book  is  noteworthy 
because  it  had  an  immense  international  vogue.  It  was  towards  the 
middle  of  '06  that  one  began  to  hear  in  the  men's  clubs  of  England 
and  in  the  cafes  of  France  and  Germany — one  began  to  hear  singu- 
lar mutterings  amongst  men.  Even  in  the  United  States  where  men 
never  talk  about  women,  certain  whispers  might  be  heard.  The 
idea  was  that  a  new  gospel  had  appeared.  I  remember  sitting  with 
a  table  full  of  overbearing  intellectuals  in  that  year,  and  they  at  once 
began  to  talk — about  Weininger  .It  gave  me  a  singular  feeling  be- 
cause they  all  talked  under  their  breaths.  I  should  like  to  be  precise 
as  to  the  strong  impression  I  then  received,  because  if  I  could  convey 
that  impression  exactly  I  should  give  a  precise  idea  of  what  is  the 


T  he    Lit  tl  e    Rev  tew  41 

attitude  of  really  advanced  men  towards  woman-kind. 

To  begin  with  my  companions: 

There  may  have  been  ten  of  them  and  every  one  of  them 
except  myself  had  a  name  of  some  distinction  in  the  world  of  ad- 
vanced ideas  in  England.  It  was  indeed  a  gathering  with  a  formal 
name.  Let  us  say  that  it  was  called  the  Pincushion,  though  the  real 
name  was  of  course  much  more  serious. 

I  once  perpetrated  an  epigram — the  only  epigram  of  my  whole 
life.  God  knows  how  a  person  so  frivolous  as  myself  ever  came  to 
be  made  a  member  of  the  Pincushion  Club.  But  a  member  I  once 
certainly  was.  And  I  was  asked,  by  a  young  person  in  a  voice  of 
awe,  what  was  this  mysterious  and  authoritative  assembly?  I  ans- 
wered— and  this  was  the  one  epigram  of  my  life — "What  the  Pin- 
cushion Club  says  to-night  the  Daily  News  yiiW  say  to-morrow." 

For  the  benefit  of  those  few  of  my  readers  who  are  not  also  stu- 
dents of  that  instructive  journal  I  should  point  out  that  this  means 
that  the  members  of  the  Pincushion  Club  were,  to  a  man,  serious, 
improving,  ethical,  advanced,  careless  about  dress  and  without  ex- 
ception Young  Liberals.  The  date  of  which  I  am  speaking  fell  in 
1906  and  it  will  be  remembered  that  it  was  just  about  that  time  that 
Miss  Pankhurst  interrupted  the  late  Sir  Henry  Campbell  Bannerman 
at  the  Albert  Hall.  I  had  more  or  less  sincerely — but  how  very 
stupid  it  was  of  me! — imagined  that  these  Young  Liberals  would 
sympathise  with  the  attempts  of  woman  to  attain  a  share  in  the 
government  of  the  country.  And  so  they  did  of  course,  for  were  they 
not  to  a  man  Young  Liberals?  But  the  odd  thing  was  that  they 
were  extraordinarily  angry  with  Miss  Pankhurst  and  her  followers. 
They  were  anxious  to  point  out  to  me  that  they  were  the  most  ad- 
vanced body  of  men  that  could  be  found  in  the  world.  Their  sjnnpa- 
thies  with  anything  advanced  could  not  possibly  be  doubted.  To  sus- 
pect them  on  this  point  would  be  worse  than  suspecting  the  Pope  of 
heresy.    It  would  be  too  shocking! 

But  when  it  came  to  Miss  Pankhurst  they  exclaimed  all  to- 
gether that  she  was  really  a  bad  girl.  They  said  that  it  was  such  bad 
manners  to  interrupt  a  Liberal  Prime  Minister,  fo  rail  Liberal  Prime 
Ministers  are  by  nature  inclined  to  favour  advanced  ideas.  And  all 
my  friends  showed  themselves  pained  to  the  point  of  tears  and  I  knew 
then  that  next  day  the  Daily  News  would  say  that  Miss  Pankhurst 
was  a  very  naughty  girl  indeed. 

And  then  suddenly  all  their  voices  sank  low  together.     I  really 


42  The    Little    Review 

thought  that  for  the  first  and  last  time  someone  of  that  circle  was 
going  to  relate  an  indecent  anecdote.  But  that  would  have  been  im- 
possible.    No!  they  were  talking  about  Weininger. 

And  the  odd  thing  was  that  every  one  of  them  had  read  "Sex 
and  Character",  w'hereas  I  had  never  even  heard  the  name  of  that 
young  German  doctor  of  medicine.  That  singular  and  whimsically 
nonsensical  work  had  spread  through  the  serious  male  society  of 
England  as  if  it  had  been  an  epidemic.  If  it  had  been  the  Influenza 
up)on  its  first  visit  it  could  not  more  effectively  have  laid  them  low. 
They  knew  all  about  the  book,  they  knew  even  all  about  the  romantic 
young  doctor  who  had  laid  this  terrific  egg  at  the  age  of  twenty  or 
so,  or  .vho  like  an  eel  had  died  of  the  effort.  Their  tones  were  ex- 
traordinarily curious.  They  contained  a  mixture  of  relief,  of  thanks- 
giving, of  chastened  jubilations,  of  regret  and  of  obscenity.  It  was 
as  if  they  were  some  sort  of  inverted  monks  rejoicing  because  some- 
one had  proved  that  the  Christian  miracles  were  all  false;  or  rather 
it  was  as  if  they  were  all  high-minded  bankrupts  to  whom  some  new 
law-giver  of  genius  had  proved  that  the  paying  of  debts  was  un- 
necessarily scrupulous.    And  that  indeed  is  what  they  were. 

For  the  young  doctor  who  went  mad  and  died  at  the  age  of 
twenty-three  had  proved  to  them  that  women  were  inferior  animals  . 
He  had  proved  it  to  the  satisfaction  of  all  their  intelligences;  out  of 
the  mouth  of  this  babe  and  suckling  had  come  the  wisdom  for  which 
they  had  craved.  And  they  were — all  these  Young  Liberals — un- 
feignedly  thankful.  They  were  more  thankful  than  any  men  that  I 
have  ever  known.  The  burden  of  years  had  fallen  from  their  shoul- 
ders. For,  for  years  and  years  they  had  had,  as  Liberal  minded  men, 
to  live  up  to  the  idea  that  women  should  have  justice  done  to  them. 
Now  Dr.  Weininger  had  come  along  and  proved  that  women  were  in- 
ferior animals.  He  had  proved  it  by  all  the  sciences  that  are  open 
to  a  very  very  young  German  doctor  of  medicine.  He  had  proved 
it  by  medicine,  by  biology,  by  classical  law,  by  theology,  which  is 
the  oldest  of  all  sciences  and  by  "characterology"  which  was  a 
science  so  new  that  it  had  been  invented  by  Dr.  Weininger  himself. 
And  how  thankful  my  Liberal  friends  were!  Once  more  they  could 
look  the  world  in  the  face.  In  one  particular  at  least  they  could  find 
themselves  in  agreement  with  the  bagman,  the  music-hall  singers  and 
all  those  unthinking  and  jovial  people  who  make  up  the  man  in  the 
street.  Yes,  they  were  unfeingedly  thankful  for  it  meant  that  the 
Young  Liberal  Party  need  not  any  more  be  burdened  with  the  woman 


The    Little    Review  43 

question.  They  were  able  then  and  there  to  throw  women  over  and 
that  was  an  immense  gain  for  the  Party.  For  the  Young  Liberal 
Party  is  always  being  made  fun  of  by  bagmen  and  by  music-hall 
singers.  In  this  respect  they  would  at  least  be  able  to  be  at  one  with 
the  ordinary  male  man.  It  made  them  very  happy.  As  for  me  I  was 
discouraged  for  I  really  imagined  that  Weininger  had  proved  his  case. 
But  immediately  I  resigned  my  membership  of  the  Pincushion  Club. 
I  couldn't  stand  the  Young  Liberal  any  more.  They  had  given  them- 
selves away  too  thoroughly! 

I  did  not  read  Weininger  for  some  time  afterwards  because,  be- 
ing naive  and  ingenuous  I  really  believed  my  Young  Liberal  friends 
when  they  assured  me  that  "Sex  and  Character"  was  a  scientific 
work.  I  was  at  that  time  a  little  tired  of  the  Doctor  posing  as  a 
prophet  in  these  matters.  We  all  know  the  distinguished  president 
of  the  British  College  of  Physicians  who  assures  us  quite  arbitrarily 
that  woman  has  no  frontal  lobe  of  the  brain- — this  is  quite  untrue — 
and  that  therefore  she  is  unable  to  drive  railway  trains.  This  also 
is  quite  untrue.  We  all  know,  too,  the  distinguished  president  of  the 
Scottish  College  of  Surgeons  who  assures  us  that  because  woman 
lacks  one  rib — that  I  believe  is  true — therefore  she  cannot  write  epic 
poems,  and  we  all  know  the  several  other  distinguished  medical  gen- 
tlemen who  assure  us  that  because  of  matters  which  one  cannot  dis- 
cuss in  drawing-rooms  all  women  are  necessarily  dishonest.  Never- 
theless after  a  time  I  did  read  this  new  scientific  work. 

Dr.  Weininger's  book  is  a  collection  of  arbitrary  theories  in- 
vented by  Dr.  Weininger  himself  and  of  second-'hand  nonsense 
collected  as  it  were  from  the  music  halls.  What  Dr.  Weininger's 
own  immense  discovery  amounts  to  is,  that  some  men  are  more  like 
women  and  some  women  are  more  like  men.  This  enormous  dis- 
covery had  already  been  made  by  my  grand  aunt  Bromley — the  lady 
who  said  that  you  can  never  trust  a  man  when  he  is  out  of  your  sight. 
It  was  also  made  by  Shakespeare,  Euripedes,  the  writers  of  the  Bible, 
of  the  Egyptian  Book  of  the  Dead.  I  should  imagine  that  the  only 
persons  who  were  not  acquainted  with  this  world  shaking  discovery 
^— the  only  recorded  persons  who  never  discovered  it  for  themselves 
were  Adam  and  Eve.  But  Dr.  Weininger,  commencing  his  great 
work  at  the  age  of  about  fourteen,  did  certainly  elaborate  the  idea, 
for  as  he  grew  older  he  must  have  discovered  that  this  proposition 
startled  nobody  when  it  was  put  boldly. 


44  The    Little    Review 

I  imagine  the  gifted  boy  approaching  the  scribes  and  elders  of 
his  day  and  attempting  to  expound  the  law  to  them.    Says  he: 

"I  have  discovered  that  some  men  are  more  like  women  and 
some  women  are  more  like  men." 

A  profound  silence  greets  his  remark.  The  gifted  boy  goes  away 
to  reflect  on  the  cause  of  his  failure.  He  discovers  that  what  is 
wanted  is  that  his  discovery  should  be  wrapt  up  in  scientific  termi- 
nology.   And  after  several  years  he  sets  down  the  proposition  thus: 

Sometimes  M  =  M"  -f  W^ 
and  VV  =  W^  +  M" 

This  means  exactly  the  same  as  the  original  proposition  but  it 
looks  more  formidable.  With  this  as  a  basis  Dr.  Weininger  launches 
out  upon  a  yet  more  adventurous  discovery.  He  discovers  that  for 
a  happy  marriage  it  is  best  for  a  manly  man  not  to  marry  a  manly 
woman  because  each  will  want  to  be  head'of  the  house,  and  that  it 
is  better  for  a  womanly  man  not  to  marry  a  womanly  Avoman  because 
then  the  house  will  have  no  head  at  all  and  will  therefore  not  be  well 
conducted.  This  discovery  was  also  made  by  my  grand  aunt  Brom- 
,ley  and  no  doubt  our  first  parents  were  able  to  observe  it  working  in 
the  households  of  Cain  and  Abel.  And  Dr.  Weininger,  no  doubt  find- 
ing that  his  discovery  lacked  mysteriousness,  proceeds  once  more 
to  express  it  thus: 


(M7  +  Wi) 


(W7 

+  Ml) 

(M7  -f  Wi) 

{W 

+  MO 

(Ml 

+  WO 

=    X 


=    Y 


=    Y 

{W  +  Ml) 

X  being  satisfactory  and  Y  unsatisfactory  union. 

This  it  will  be  admitted  is  a  very  impressive  way  of  stating  an 
extraordinarily  worn  out  platitude  and  without  doubt  Dr.  Weininger 
deserves  all  the  success  that  he  obtained.  He  proceeds  to  state  that 
this  Algebraic  theory  will  be  found  to  be  true  in  the  cases  of  the 


The    Little    Review  45 

marriage  of  animals  and  of  plants.  But  he  does  not  support  this 
dogma  with  any  scientific  examples  .  Why  should  he?  And  this  is 
positively  all  the  hard  scientific  fact  that  his  great  volume  contains; 
the  rest  is  sheer  arbitrary  statements. 

This  is  how  it  is  done.    Dr.  Weininger  proceeds  to  question: 

"What  is  genius?"    He  answers: 

"Genius  is  memory." 

And  he  devotes  an  immense  long  chapter  to  proving  that  Homer, 
Shakespeare,  Goethe,  Schiller,  Freiligrath,  Bismarck  and  Richard 
Wagner  all  had  wonderful  memories.  He  supports  the  theory  with 
quotations  from  the  autobiography  of  Benvenuto  Cellini,  the  con- 
fessions of  Jean  Jacques  Rousseau,  Novalis,  Cicero  and  Heinrich 
Heine.  All  this  part  of  a  chapter  on  genius  he  documents  in  the  most 
weighty  and  the  most  teutonic  manner.  No  reader  could  possibly 
doubt  that  here  is  a  truly  scientific  work.  Towards  the  end  of  the 
chapter  Dr.  Weininger,  thumping  his  pulpit  shouts:  "Thus  I  have 
proved  that  genius  is  memory."  Then  as  it  were  in  a  low  voice  he 
says  "No  woman  ever  had  a  good  memory,  therefore  no  woman  was " 
ever  a  genius."  And  in  that  moment  he  jumps  down  from  the  pulpit 
before  anyone  has  time  to  make  objections. 

Or  again  he  asks: 

"What  is  greatness?"  and  he  answers:  To  be  great  is  to  have  a 
strong  sense  of  one's  own  individuality."  He  proceeds*  to  cite  the 
cases  of  Alexander  the  Great,  Julius  Caesar,  Charlemagne.  Prince 
Eugene,  Frederick  the  Great,  Marshall  Bluecher,  Napoleon,  the  first 
Count  Moltke  and  William  i  of  Germany.  All  these  people  he  says 
had  a  strong  sense  of  their  individual  importance.  He  proceeds  to 
document  his  theory  with  quotations  from  Jean  Paul,  Novalis,  Schel- 
ling,  Kant  and  Nietzsche.  He  mentions  Shelley,  Lucretius  and 
Hume  with  disapproval.  He  approves  of  Archimedes,  Johannes  Mul- 
ler,  Karl  Ernst  von  Baer,  Conrad  Sprengel,  Friedrich  August  Wolff, 
Franz  Bopp,  Leibnitz,  Newton  and  Thucydides.  He  quotes  Empe- 
docles,  Plotinius  and  Goethe.  Once  more  there  is  the  splendid  Ger- 
man scientific  manner.  Once  more  he  thumps  his  pulpit,  'fehouts: 
"To  be  great  is  to  have  a  sense  of  one's  own  individual  importance." 
Once  more  he  slips  out  the  sentence:  "No  woman  has  ever  had  a 
sense  of  her  own  individual  importance.  Therefore  no  woman  was 
ever  great."    And  once  more  he  vanishes  discreetly  from  view. 

For  these  allegations  against  women  Dr.  Weininger  adduces  no 
authority.    He  does  not  quote  Novalis  or  Amiel  or  Schelling  or  Jean 


46  T  he    Li  t  tie    Rev  lew 

Paul  Richter  or  even  the  most  obscure  of  German  philosophers.    He 
just  boldly  makes  a  statement.    In  this  way: 

" — And  even  women  with  the  best  and  least  limited  mem- 
ories never  free  themselves  from  this  kind  of  association  by  feel- 
ings. For  instance  if  they  'feel  reminded'  by  a  word  of  some 
definite  colour,  or  by  a  human  being  of  some  definite  thing 
to  eat— forms  of  association  common  with  women — they  rest 
content  with  the  subjective  association,  and  do  not  try  to  find 
out  the  source  of  the  comparison,  and  if  there  is  any  relation 
in  it  to  actual  fact.  The  complacency  of  self  satisfaction  of 
women  corresponds  with  what  has  been  called  their  intellectual 
unscrupulousness.  and  will  be  referred  to  again  in  connection 
with  their  want  of  the  power  to  form  concepts." 

The  aim  of  this  passage  is  to  prove  that  women  have  no  memo- 
ries.    Or  again,  says  Dr.  Weininger, 

"The  consciousness  of  identity  of  the  male  even  although 
he  may  fail  to  understand  his  own  past,  manifests  itself  in  the 
very  desire  to  understand  that  past.  Women,  if  they  look  back 
on  their  earlier  lives  never  understand  themselves  and  do  not 
even  wish  to  understand  themselves,  and  this  reveals  itslf  in  the 
scanty  interest  they  give  to  the  attempts  of  man  to  understand 
them.    The  woman  does  not  interest  herself  about  herself." 

Or  yet  again: 

"There  is  nothing  more  upsetting,  to  a  man  than  to  find, 
when  he  has  discovered  a  woman  in  a  lie,  and  he  asks  her:  "WTiy 
did  you  lie  about  it?"  that  she  simply  does  not  understand  the 
question,  but  simply  looks  at  him  and  laughingly  tries  to  soothe 
him,  or  bursts  into  tears." 
Or  once  more: 

"Truth  must  first  be  regarded  as  the  real  value  of  logic  and 
ethics  before  it  is  correct  to  speak  of  deviations  from  truth  for 
special  motives  as  lies  from  the  moral  point  of  view.  Those 
who  have  not  this  high  conception  should  be  adjudged  as  guilty 
rather  of  vagueness  and  exaggeration  than  of  lying;  they  are  not 
immoral,  but  non-moral.  And  in  this  sense  the  woman  is  non- 
moral!" 

This  last  passage  shows  Dr.  Weininger  at  his  astutest.    With  an 
admirable  cunning  he  wraps  up  a  truism  in  scientific  language  that 


The    Little    Review-  47 

that  may  awe  the  simple-minded  and  comfort  the  erudite.  This  is  at 
the  opening  of  the  paragraph.  And  then  when  he  has  proved  to  his 
own  satisfaction  that  he  is  learned,  balanced, thoughtful  and  scientific 
he  makes  a  statement  from  quite  another  department  of  knowledge 
and  trusts  that  his  form.er  erudition  may  carry  him  over.  This  is 
Dr.  Weininger's  one  technical  trick  and  he  uses  it  with  such  consum- 
mate skill  that  he  certainly  hoodwinked  a  large  portion  of  the  world 
of  his  day.  Here  for  instance  we  may  read  how  he  affected  his 
publishers: 

"In  the  two  chapters,  The  Nature  of  Woman  and  her  Sig- 
nificance in  the  Universe,  and  Woman  and  Mankind,  we  drink 
from  a  fountain  of  the  ripest  wisdom.  A  tragic  and  most  un- 
happy mind  reveals  itself  here,  and  no  thoughtful  man  will  lay 
down  ithis  book  without  deep  emotion  and  admiration,  many, 
indeed,  will  close  it  with  almost  religious  reverence." 

It  is  almost  incredible  that  any  human  being  can  have  written 
in  this  way  of  any  book  written  by  human  hands,  yet  there  the  words 
stand  in  cold  print.  And  v/hat  does  it  all  amount  to*.  It  is  as  if  a 
first  class  cricketer  should  demand  the  religious  attention  of  the 
public  to  his  pronouncement  upon  literary  style  or  as  if  a  field  mar- 
shal should  demand  to  be  listened  to  on  the  subject  of  the  divorce 
law.  It  amounts  exactly  to  that.  Dr.  Weininger  was  something  of  a 
biologist,  something  of  a  psychologist,  something  of  a  metaphysician. 
He  had  passed  his  time — his  short  life — in  the  reading  of  innumerable 
books;  he  could  turn  out  some  really  good,  compiled  chapters  on  logic, 
aesthetics,  metaphysics.  And  his  reading  on  these  subjects  was  prob- 
ably unrivalled  by  any  German  student  of  his  day.  He  was  nothing 
more  or  less  than  a  conscientious  book-worm  and  an  absolutely  un- 
scrupulous theorist,  these  characteristics  going  so  often  hand  in  hand. 
He  lived  in  the  little  town  of  Jena  where  opportunities  for  observing 
life  are  as  wide  or  as  narrow  as  in  any  other  little  town  of  a  handful 
of  learned  inhabitants  and  where  the  atmosphere  is  as  conducive  to 
the  study  of  books  as  is  anywhere  possible.  He  was  an  immensely 
hard  worker,  he  had  an  enormous  memory,  he  had  an  extremely  arro- 
gant sense  of  his  personal  worth.  (It  will  be  observed  that  he  says 
that  the  characteristics  of  genius  are  memory  and  an  arrogant  sense 
of  one's  personal  worth.) 

Without  doubt  the  poor  fellow  thought  himself  a  genius  and  per- 
haps'he  was.  Then  this  book-worm  came  across  a  stupid  girl  just  as 
Christina  Rossetti  came  across  a  stupid  young  man.  There  was 
nothing  on  the  face  of  Weininger  to  show  that  he  was  a  great  man. 


48  The    Little    Review 


He  was  rather  ugly,  arrogant  and  rude.  The  stupid  girl  ignored  his 
distinguished  qualities,  deceived  him  and  threw  him  over.  The  result 
of  this  experience — it  was  the  only  real  experience  of  this  short  life 
— is  to  be  found  in  the  passage  that  I  have  quoted — the  one  begin- 
ning. There  is  nothing  more  upsetting  to  a  man  than  to  find, 
when  he  has  discovered  a  woman  in  a  lie"  ....  And  this  passage 
is  a  real  outpouring  of  the  soul  of  poor  Weininger.  The  stupid  young 
girl  had  gone  to  the  theatre  in  Weimar  with  another  and  more  at- 
tractive young  man.  Afterwards  she  lied  about  it  to  the  doctor  and 
naturally  he  had  never  experienced  anything  more  upsetting.  At  last 
she  deserted  him  for  the  more  dashing  young  student.  Then  Wein- 
inger, outraged  and  driven  mad  by  his  solitary  experience,  retired 
into  his  study  to  revenge  himself  against  the  sex.  And  when  he  had 
written  his  book  he  shot  himself  on  the  fourth  of  October,  1903. 

As  I  have  said,  Dr.  Weininger  hardly  documents  his  book  at  all; 
the  list  of  actual  women  whom  he  mentions  by  name  limiting  itself 
to  a  score  or  so.  Of  these  the  most  prominent  are,  from  an  English 
point  of  view,  George  Sand.  Christina  Rossetti  and  George  Eliot. 
Of  George  Sand  he  says  in  the  familiar  anti-feminine  tone  that  she 
ought  to  have  been  a  man.  George  Eliot  he  says,  "had  a  broad  mas- 
sive forehad,  her  movements  like  her  expression  were  quick  and  de- 
cided and  lacked  all  womanly  grace."  Christina  Rossetti  he  likewise 
declares  to  have  been  masculine  in  her  character!  Of  another  con- 
nection of  my  own,  Annette  von  Droste  Hulshorff  he  says  upon  one 
page  that  she  was  the  most  original  poetess  that  Germany  produced 
and  that  "her  frame  was  wiry  and  unwomanly  and  her  face  mascu- 
line and  recalling  that  of  Dante."  This  is  when  Dr.  Weininger  is 
anxious  to  prove  that  all  women  of  distinction  have  had  masculine  at- 
tributes. Now,  I  am  exceedingly  acquainted  with  portraits  and  with 
anecdotes  of  this  poetess  who  really  did  write  some  extremely  charm- 
ing verse.  In  her  youth  she  was  fresh  coloured,  soft  in  outline  and 
smiling.  Towards  the  end  of  her  life  she  certainly  grew  thin  and 
rather  hook-nosed  but  in  her  general  characteristics,  and  particularly 
in  her  long-drawn-out  love  affair  with  the  poet  Levin  Schucking,  she 
was  certainly  as  feminine  as  any  one  could  desire.  But  it  is  not 
enough  for  Dr.  Weininger  to  belabour  Annette  with  attributes  of 
masculinity  upon  page  67  when  he  is  anxious  to  say  that  she  is  an 
original  poetess.  On  a  later  page  when  he  desires  to  prove  that  no 
woman  ever  wrote  original  poetry  he  says  that  Annette's  work  was 
unoriginal,  outmoded  and  feminine.  In  this  way  does  this  distin- 
guished writer  have  his  aruguments  both  ways.    And  similarly  when 


The    Little    Review  49 

/  le  wishes  to  prove  that  distinguished  women,  being  always  masculine- 
I  ninded,  mate  themselves  with  effeminate  men,  he  mentions  Daniel 
Stern  the  mistress  of  Liszt  and  then  says  that  Liszt's  compositions 
were  effeminate.  He  says  that  "Mme  de  Stael,  whose  work  on  Ger- 
many is  probably  the  greatest  book  by  woman  ever  published,  is 
supposed  to  have  been  intimate  with  August  Wilhelm  Schlegel"  — 
an  effeminate.  But  he  never  mentions  the  catalogue  of  other  lovers 
whom  Mme  de  Boigne  assigns  to  Mme  de  Stael  —  lovers  who  were 
all  sufficiently  masculine.  And  hfe  does  not  even  spell  Mme  de 
Stael's  name  correctly. 

It  is  in  this  way  that  Dr.  Weininger's  large  book  is  built  Uf) — 
by  leaving  out  documentation  as  far  as  possible  when  he  is  upon 
the  question  of  woman;  by  falsifying  his  documentation  or  by  mis- 
reading- other  documents  when  documentation  is  forced  upon  him. 
And  as  a  matter  of  fact  he  approaches  women  very  sparingly  at  all 
in  this  work.  About  ten  per  cent  of  it  is  devoted  to  provingHhe 
littleness  of  the  inferior  sex;  about  ninety  per  cent  is  devoted  to 
those  passages  in  which  he  analyses  the  nature  of  the  greatness  of 
man.    And  this  ninety  per  cent  is  documented  carefully  enough. 

Writing  on  questions  of  sex  characteristic  is  vastly  more  diffi- 
cult than  writing  upon  international  differences,  and  there  are  few 
men  so  bold  that  they  would  write  upon  the  characteristics  of  China 
without  having  visited  that  empire  or  ever  having  known  with  some 
intimacy  a  Chinaman.  Most  men  will  tell  you  that  the  nature  of 
women  is  vastly  more  incomprehensible  to  them  than  is  the  empire 
of  the  Mongols.  Yet  there  is  hardly  any  man,  be  his  acquaintance 
with  women  ever  so  little  or  his  experience  of  them  ever  so  limited, 
that  would  not  willingly  sit  down  to  write  you  a  great  long  book 
,  about  what  he  will  call  the  fair  sex. 

So  it  was  with  Dr.  Weininger  who  shot  himself  in  1903  because 
a  silly  girl  went  from  the  town  of  Jena  to  the  theatre  of  Weimar 
with  a  fellow-student.  That  some  experience  of  a  foreign  country 
would  have  been  necessary  to  him  before  he  wrote  about  that  foreign 
country,  he  would  have  been  ready  to  agree.  Yet  thoug^h  the  heart 
of  another  is  a  dark  forest,  he  was  ready  to  set  out  writing  on  the 
mysteries  that  are  to  be  found  in  innumerable  darknesses  without 
having  touched  more  than  one  tree  in  all  the  forests  of  this  world. 
For  It  is  literally  the  fact  that  the  one  trace  of  experience  in  all  this 
long  book  is  the  poor  young  man's  expression  of  astonishment  when 
be  found  that  a  woman  could  lie  to  him.    He  regarded  himself  as 


50 


The    Little     Review 


God  Almighty;   that,  I  suppose,  is  why  his  publisher  recommends 
us  to  lay  down  his  book  with  almost  religious  reverence. 

I  am  aware  that  it  may  seem  almost  foolish  to  break  so  gravely 
upon  a  wheel  so  frail  a  butterfly,  and  indeed  I  have  only  set  about 
the  task  because  this  work  represents  for  so  many  men  of  the  present 
day  a  fifth  gospel. 

Before  the  day  of  Weininger  their  testament  was  a  work  called 
"Parerga  und  Paralipomena",  and  a  chapter  of  that  work  called 
"Ueber  die  Weiber".  But  this  celebrated  chapter  beginning  with 
the  world-renowned  words: 

''Dass  man  das  kurzbeinige,  breithupige  u.  s.  w.  Geschlecht 
das  schoene  nennen  sollt — ''  this  celebrated  chapter  is  not  meant 
even  by  its  author  to  be  taken  very  seriously,  for  the  sub-title  of 
this  collection  is  given  as  "little  philosophic  sketches"  and  it  is 
bound  up  with  such  half  humorous  philippics  as  the  exceedingly 
funny  essay  called  "Ueber  Larm  und  Geraeusch''.  Schopenhauer 
knew  quite  well  that  he  was  exaggerating;  that  he  was  exaggerating 
even  humorously.  He  documents  his  tremendous  essay  with  the 
most  solemn  and  portentous  notes.  He  puts  into  it  the  fruits  of  as 
much  reading  as  the  ordinary  scholar  would  give  to  his  work  of  a 
whole  life-time.  But  the  whole  effect  is  slightly  whimsical,  is  slightly 
nonsensical.  It  produces  the  impression  of  a  good  Tory  filled  with 
port  wine  and  at  peace  with  the  universe,  declaring  loudly  that  all 
Liberals  are  a  set  of  swine  whose  sole  preoccupation  is  that  of 
handing  over  the  British  Empire  to  the  Germans.  He  knows  that 
it  isn't  true  but  he  goes  on  adducing  fact  after  fact  in  a  fine  non- 
sensical fury.  Schopenhauer's  experience  of  women  was  twice  as 
broad  as  Weininger's,  but  it  was  only  half  as  deep.  He  knew  two 
of  these  mysterious  creatures,  his  mother  who  worried  him  to  mad- 
ness with  her  silly  tongue  and  his  housekeeper  whom  eventually  he 
threw  dowTistairs.  She  broke  her  leg  and  he  was  under  the  necessity 
of  paying  her  a  pension  for  the  rest  of  her  life  and  quite  naturally 
this  annoyed  him.  The  rest  of  the  knowledge  of  life  that  this 
learned  philosopher  had  he  acquired  at  the  public  dining  table  of 
a  restaurant  in  Frankfurt.  Here  he  was  accustomed  to  sit  every 
day  during  lunch  time.  Beside  him  on  the  table  cloth  he  would  lay 
a  ten  Taler  piece  in  gold.  And  this  piece  of  money  he  declared  that 
he  would  give  to  the  poor  as  soon  as  he  heard  one  of  the  many  officers 
who  sat  at  table  with  him.  talk  of  anything  more  sensible  than  rac- 
ing or  women.  He  was  never  called  on  for  the  ten  Talers.  So  that 
perhaps  Schopenhauer  heard  something  about  the  fair  sex  after  all. 
But  he  was  a  very  great  philosopher  and  quite  the  ugliest  man  of  his 


The    Little    Review  51 


day.  His  mother  Johanna  Schopenhauer  was  the  most  popular 
novelist  of  her  day  and  Arthur  was  entirely  dependent  on  her.  This 
alone  would  have  been  sufficient  to  have  irritated  any  philosopher 
for  she  was  a  tiresome  woman — and  he  was  a  tiresome  man.  Before 
Schopenhauer  there  was  no  writer  who  systematically  and  scientifi- 
cally attacked  the  other  half  of  the  human  creation. 

{to  be  continued) 


BERTHA 

Arthur    Symons 

No,  dear  Madame,  it  has  never  greatly  interested  me  to  be  taken 
for  a  poet.  And  that  is  one  reason  why  I  have  for  the  most 
part  shunned  poetical  persons;  you  are  the  exception,  of  course,  but 
then  you  are  beautiful,  and  I  forgive  you  for  being  that.  And  yet 
I  too  have  been  taken  for  a  poet.  Shall  I  tell  you  about  it,  before 
I  tell  you  about  Bertha,  who  did  not  know  what  a  poet  was? 

It  was  one  midnight,  in  London,  at  the  corner  of  a  somewhat 
sordid  street.  I  was  standing  at  the  edge  of  the  pavement,  looking 
across  at  the  upper  windows  of  a  house  opposite.  That  does  not 
strike  you,  dear  Muse  of  imaginary  cypresses,  as  a  poetical  attitude? 
Perhaps  not;  and  indeed  I  was  thinking-  little  enough  of  poetry  at 
the  time.  I  was  thinking  only  of  someone  who  had  quitted  me  in 
anger,  five  minutes  before,  and  whose  shadow  I  seemed  to  see  on 
the  blind,  in  that  lighted  upper  room  of  the  house  opposite.  I 
stood  quite  motionless  on  the  pavement,  and  I  gazed  so  intently  at 
the  blind,  that,  as  if  in  response  to  the  urgency  of  my  will,  the 
blind  was  drawn  aside,  and  she  looked  out.  She  saw  me,  drew 
back,  and  seemed  to  speak  to  someone  inside;  then  returned  to  the 
window,  and  pulling  down  the  blind  behind  her,  leant  motionless 
against  the  glass,  watching  me  intently.  In  this  manner  we  gazed 
at  one  another  for  some  minutes,  neither,  at  the  time,  realizing  that 
each  could  be  seen  so  distinctly  by  the  other.  As  I  stood  there, 
unable  to  move,  yet  in  mortal  shame  of  the  futile  folly  of  such  an 
attitude,  I  realized  that  my  appearance  was  being  discussed  by  some 
loungers  not  many  yards  distant.  And  the  last,  decisive,  uncontro- 
verted  conjecture  was  this:     "He's  a  poet!"  That  point  settled. 


$2  The    Little     Review 


one  of  them  left  the  group,  and  came  up  to  me.  He  was  a  prize- 
fighter, quite  an  amiable  person:  I  welcomed  him,  for  he  talked 
to  me,  and  so  gave  me  an  excuse  for  lingering;  he  was  kind  enouq^h 
to  borrow  a  shilling  of  me,  before  we  parted;  and  the  action  or  slip- 
ping the  coin  into  his  hand  gave  me  the  further  excuse  of  turning 
rapidly  away,  wiihont  a  last  look  at  the  motionless  figure  watching 
me  from  the  lighted  window.  Ah,  that  was  a  long  time  ago,  Madame; 
but  you  see  I  remember  it  quite  distinctly,  not,  perhaps,  because  it 
was  the  occasion  when  I  was  taken  for  a  poet.  Do  you  mind  if  I  talk 
now  about  Bertha?  I  met  Bertha  much  more  recently,  but  T  am 
not  sure  that  I  remember  her  quite  so  well. 

This  was  at  Brussels.  It  was  in  the  time  of  the  Kermesse  when, 
as  you  know,  the  good  Flemish  people  are  somewhat  more  boister- 
ously jolly  than  usual;  when  the  band  plays  in  the  middle  of  the 
market-place,  and  the  people  walk  round  and  round  the  band-stand, 
looking  up  at  the  Archangel  Michael  on  the  spire  of  the  Hotel  de 
Ville,  to  see  him  turn  first  pink  and  then  green,  as  the  Bengal  lig-hts 
smoke  about  his  feet;  when  there  are  processions  in  the  street, 
music  and  torches,  and  everyone*  sets  out  for  the  Fair.  Vou  have 
seen  the  Gingerbread  Fair  at  Paris?  Well,  imagine  a  tiny  Ginger- 
bread Fair,  but  with  something  quite  Flemish  in  the  solid  gaiety  of 
its  shows  and  crowds,  as  solid  as  the  bons  chevaux  de  bois,  Verlaine  s 
bons  chevaux  de  bois,  that  go  prancing  up  and  down  in  their  rattling 
circles.  Quite  Flemish,  too,  were  the  little  mysterious  booths,  which 
you  have  certainly  not  found  in  Paris.  Madame,  and  which  I  should 
certainly  not  have  taken  3'^ou  to  see  in  Brussels  .  You  paid  a  penny 
^t  the  door,  and,  once  inside,  were  scarcely  limited  in  regard  to  the 
sum  you  might  easily  spend  on  very  little.  \Vliat  did  one  see?  In- 
deed, very  little.  There  was  a  lady,  perched,  for  the  mosi  part,  in. 
an  odd  little  alcove,  raised  a  bed's  height  above  the  ground.  As  a. 
rule,  she  was  not  charming,  not  even  young;  and  her  conversation 
was  almost  limited  to  a  phrase  in  which  Man  petit  benefice  recurred 
somewhat  tiresomely.    No,  there  was  not  much  to  see,  after  all. 

But  Bertha  was  different.  I  don't  know  exactly  whar  was  the 
odd  fascination  of  Bertha,  but  she  fascinated  us  all;  the  mild  Flemish 
painter,  with  his  golden  beard;  our  cynical  publisher,  with  his  dia- 
bolical monocle;  my  fantastical  friend,  the  poet;  and,  Madame,  be 
sure,  myself.    She  was  tall  and  lisom:  she  apologised  for  takinsf  the 


The    Little    Review  53 


place  of  the  fat  lady  usually  on  exhibition;  she  had  strange,  perverse, 
shifting  eyes,  the  colour  of  burnt  topazes,  and  thin  painful  lips, 
that  smiled  frankly,  when  the  eyes  began  their  queer  dance  under 
the  straight  eyebrows.  She  was  scarred  on  the  cheek:  a  wicked 
Baron,  she  told  us,  had  done  that,  with  vitroil;  one  of  her  breasts 
was  singularly  mutilated;  she  had  been  shot  in  the  back  by  an 
Englishman,  when  she  was  keeping  a  shooting-gallery  at  Antwerp. 
And  she  had  the  air  of  a  dangerous  martyr,  who  might  bewitch  one, 
with  some  of  those  sorceries  that  had  turned,  somehow,  to  her 
own  hurt. 

We  stayed  a  long  time  in  the  booth.  I  forget  most  ot  our  con- 
versation. But  I  remember  that  our  publisher,  holding  the  monocle 
preposterously  between  his  lips,  announced  solemnly:  Je  sui's  un 
poete.  Then  he  generously  shifted  the  credit  upon  the  two  of  us 
who  were  most  anxious  to  disclaim  the  name.  Bertha  was  curious, 
but  bewildered.  She  had  no  conception  of  what  a  poet  was.  We 
tried  French,  Flemish,  and  English,  poem,  verse,  rhyme,  song, 
everything  in  short,  and  in  vain.  At  last  an  idea  struck  her:  she 
understood:  we  were  cafe-chantant  singers.  That  was  the  nearest 
she  ever  came. 

Do  but  think  of  it,  Madame,  for  one  instant:  a  woman  who 
does  not  so  much  as  know  what  a  poet  is!  But  you  can  have  no 
idea  how  grateful  I  was  to  Bertha,  nor  how  often,  since  then,  I 
have  longed  to  see  her  again.  Never  did  any  woman  so  cliarm 
me  by  so  celestial  an  ignorance.  The  moments  I  spent  with  Bertha 
at  the  Fair  repaid  me  for  I  know  not  how  many  weary  hours  in 
drawing-rooms.  Can  you  understand  the  sensation,  Madame,  the 
infinite  relief?  ....  And  then  she  was  a  snake-like  creature,  with 
long  cool  hands. 


54  The    Little    Review 


A  LIST  OF  BOOKS 
Ezra    Pound 

WHEN  circumstances  have  permitted  me  to  lift  up  my  prayer  to 
the  gods,  of  whom  there  are  several,  and  whose  multiplicity  has 
only  been  forgotten  during  the  less  felicitous  periods,!  have  requested 
for  contemporary  use,  some  system  of  delayed  book  reviewing,  some 
system  whereby  the  critic  of  current  things  is  permitted  to  state  that 
a  few  books  read  with  pleasure  five  or  six  years  ago  can  still  be  with 
pleasure  perused,  and  that  their  claims  to  status  as  literature  have 
not  been  obliterated  by  half  or  all  of  a  decade.    • 

George    S.    Street 

There  was  in  the  nineties,  the  late  nineties  and  during  the  early 
years  of  this  century,  and  still  is,,  a  writer  named  George  S.  Street. 
He  has  written  some  of  the  best  things  that  have  been  thought  con- 
cerning Lord  Byron,  he  has  written  them  not  as  a  romanticist,  not 
as  a  presbyterian,  but  as  a  man  of  good  sense.  They  are  worthy 
of  commendation.  He  has  written  charmingly  in  criticism  of  eight- 
eenth century  writers,  and  of  the  ghosts  of  an  earlier  Piccadilly. 
He  has  w'ritten  tales  of  contemporary  life  with  a  suavity,  wherefrom 
the  present  writer  at  least  has  learned  a  good  deal,  even  if  he  have 
not  yet  put  it  into  scriptorial  practice.  (I  haste  to  state  this 
indebtedness) . 

The  writers  of  moeurs  contemporaines  are  so  few,  or  rather 
there  are  so  few  of  them  who  can  be  treated  under  the  heading  ''lit- 
erature", that  the  discovery  or  circulation  of  any  such  writer  is  no 
mean  critical  action.  Mr.  Street  is  "quite  as  amusing  as  Stockton", 
,with  the  infinite  difference  that  Mr.  Street  has  made  literature. 
Essays  upon  him  are  not  infrequent  in  volumes  of  english  essays 
dealing  wtih  contemporary  authors.  My  impression  is  that  he  is  not 
widely  read  in  America  (his  publishers  will-  doubtless  put  me  right 
if  this  impression  is  erroneous) ;  I  can  only  conclude  that  the  pos- 
session of  a  style,  the  use  of  a  suave  and  pellucid  english  has  erected 
some  sort  of  barrier. 

"The  Trials  of  the  Bantocks",  "The  Wise  and  the  Wayward", 


The    Little    Review  $5 


"The  Ghosts  of  Piccadilly",  "Book  of  Essays",  "The  Autobiography 
of  a  Boy",  "Quales  Ega"  "Miniatures  and  Moods",  are  among  his 
works,  and  in  them  the  rare  but  intelligent  reader  may  take  refuge 
from  the  imbecilities  of  the  multitude. 

Frederick    Manning 

In  19 10  Mr.  Manning  published,  with  the  almost  defunct  and 
wholly  uncommendable  firm  of  John  Murray,  "Scenes  and  Por- 
traits", the  opening  paragraph  of  which  I  can  still,  I  believe,  quote 
from  memeory. 

"When  Merodach,  King  of  Uruk,  sat  down  to  his  meals, 
he  made  his  enemies  his  footstool,  for  beneath  his  table  he  kept 
an  hundred  kings  with  their  thumbs  and  great  toes  cut  off,  as 
signs  of  his  power  and  clemency.  When  Merodach  had  finished 
eating  he  shook  the  crumbs  from  his  napkin,  and  the  kings  fed 
■  themselves  with  two  fingers,  and  when  Merodach  observed  how 
painful  and  difficult  this  operation  was,  he  praised  God  for  hav- 
ing given  thumbs  to  man. 

"  'It  is  by  the  absence  of  things',  he  said,  'that  we  learn 
their  use.  Thus  if  we  deprive  a  man  of  his  eyes  we  deprive  him 
of  sight,  and  in  this  manner  we  learn  that  sight  is  the  function 
of  the  eyes.' 

"Thus  spake  Merodach,  for  he  had  a  scientific  mind  and  was 
curious  of  God's  handiwork.  And  when  he  had  finished  speak- 
ing, his  courtiers  applauded  him." 

Adam  is  afterwards  discovered  trespassing  in  Merodach's  gar- 
den or  paradise.  The  characters  of  Bagoas,  Merodach's  high  priest, 
Adam,  Eve  and  of  the  Princess  Candace  are  all  admirably  presented. 
The  book  is  divided  in  six  parts:  the  incident  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Uruk,  a  conversation  at  the  house  of  Euripides,  "A  Friend  of  Paul", 
a  conversation  between  St.  Francis  and  the  Pope,  another  between 
Thomas  Cromwell  and  Macchiavelli,  and  a  final  encounter  between 
Leo  XIII  and  Renan  in  Paradise. 

This  book  is  not  to  be  neglected  by  the  intelligent  reader,  (avis 
rarissima,  and  in  what  minute  ratio  to  the  population  I  am  still 
unable  to  discern.) 


56  T  ke    Lit  tie    Re  view 


C.    F.    K  e  a  r  y 

C.  F.  Keary  is  recently  dead.  He  had  written  divers  novels 
greatly  admired  in  certain  circles  and  a  volume  of  pagan  poems  en- 
titled "Religious  Hours",  printed  with  black  borders  like  a  book 
of  devotions.  He  was  a  contributor  to  the  more  solid  english  quar- 
terlies and  reviews.  The  poems  are  in  the  tradition  of  english  poetry 
as  it  was  before  Keats  and  Shelly,  they  are  consistent  within  them- 
selves, and  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  appraise  such  work  in  a  hurry. 
One  must  sink  into  the  given  period.  It  is  not  my  period,  nor  even 
one  of  my  periods,  and  I  have  not  yet  fotmd  the  right  critic  to  do 
the  job  for  me.  I  hope  to  give  some  adequate  notice  of  the  novels 
after  I  have  arranged  suitable  complete  numbers  in  appreciation  of 
Henry  James  and  of  Remy  de  Gourmont,  in  each  case  a  lengthy 
matter,  for  the  number  of  critics  qualified  to  cooperate  is,  one  need 
hardly  say,  very  lirnited.  Mr.  Gosse,  for  instance,  has  spent  so  many 
years  concealing  the  fact  that  he  could  not  read  his  friend  Henry 
James;  and  the  general  critic  is  both  ignorant  of  the  subject,  and 
incapable  of  treating  it. 

The  Egoist  has  collected  a  few  essays  in  their  January  number. 
R.  H.  C.  in  the  New  Age  has  printed  one  or  two  paragraphs. 

One's  first  step  is  to  dissociate,  firmly  and  completely,  Henry 
from  William,  and  from  the  James  family  in  general,  or  rather  to 
observe  that  this  process  of  dissociation  has  been  for  some  time  under 
way.    D.  G.  Rossetti  had  also  a  brother  named  William. 

The  one  person  really  qualified  to  write  of  the  subject  is  Mrs. 
Wharton,  whose  cooperation  is  perhaps  unobtainable. 

Mr.  Hueffer  is  in  the  army,  and  can  scarcely  be  called  upon. 
But  with  or  without  these  two  most  desirable  critics  we  will  set  forth 
on  some  sort  of  apprecition  of  the  greatest  prosateur  of  our  time. 

"Others" 

The  Cuala  Press  has  issued  a  volume  of  Mr.  Yeats'  latest  poems, 
the  quality  of  which  is  well  known  to  our  readers  and  needs  no  fur- 
vther  expositon.  Among  other  books  received  for  review  is  a  se- 
quence by  Moireen  Fox,  a  new  book  of  short  poems  by  Joseph  Camf>- 
bell,  and  the  "Others"  Anthology  for  191 7.  This  last  gives  I  think  the 
first  adequate  presentation  of  Mina  Loy  and  Marianne  Moore,  who 


T  ht    Little    R  eview  57 


lave,  without  exaggerated  "nationalism",  without  waving  of  banners 
ind  general  phrases  about  Columbia  gem  of  the  ocean,  succeeded  in, 
)r  fallen  into,  producing  something  distinctly  American  in  quality, 
lot  merely  distinguishable  as  Americans  by  reason  of  current  na- 
ional  faults. 

Their  work  is  neither  simple,  sensuous  nor  passionate,  but  as 
we  are  no  longer  governed  by  the  North  American  Review  we  need 
not  condemn  poems  merely  because  they  do  not  fit  some  stock  phrase 
[)f  rhetorical  criticism. 

(For  example  an  infinitely  greater  artist  than  Tennyson  uses 
six  "s"  's  and  one  "z"  in  a  single  line.  It  is  one  of  the  most  musical 
lines  in  Provencal  and  opens  a  poem  especially  commended  by 
Dante.  Let  us  leave  the  realm  of  promoted  typists  who  quote  the 
stock  phrases  of  text-books.) 

In  the  verse  of  Marianne  Moore  I  detect  traces  of  emotion;  in 
that  of  Mina  Loy  I  detect  no  emotion  whatever.  Both  of  these 
women  are,  possibly  in  unconsciousness,  among  the  followers  of 
[Jules  Laforgue  (whose  work  shows  a  great  deal  of  emotion).  It  is 
[possible,  as  I  have  written,  or  intended  to  write  elsewhere,  to  divide 
poetry  into  three  sorts;  (i.)  melopoeia,  to  wit,  poetry  which  moves 
by  its  music,  whether  it  be  a  music  in  the  words  or  an  aptitude  for, 
or  suggestion  of,  accompanying  music;  (2.)  imagism,  or  poetry 
wherein  the  feelings  of  painting  and  sculpture  are  predominant 
(certain  men  move  in  phantasmagoria;  the  images  of  their  gods, 
whole  countrysides^,  stretches  of  hill  land  and  forest,  travel  with 
them) ;  and  there  is,  thirdly,  logopoeia  or  poetry  that  is  akin  to 
nothing  but  language,  which  is  a  dance  of  the  intelligence  among 
words  and  ideas  and  modification  of  ideas  and  characters.  Pope 
and  the  eighteenth-century  writers  had  in  this  medium  a  certain 
limited  range.  The  intelligence  of  Laforgue  ran  through  the  whole 
gamut  of  his  time.  T.  S.  Eliot  has  gone  on  with  it.  Browning  wrote 
a  condensed  form  of  drama,  full  of  things  of  the  senses,  scarcely  ever 
pure  logopoeia. 

One  wonders  what  the  devil  anyone  will  make  of  this  sort  of 
thing  who  has  not  in  their  wit  all  the  clues.  It  has  none  of  the 
stupidity  beloved  of  the  "lyric"  enthusiast  and  the  writer  and 
reader  who  take  refuge  in  scenery  description  of  nature,  because 
they  are  unable  to  cope  with  the  human.  These  two  contributors  to 
the  "Others"  Anthology  write  logopoeia.     It  is,  in  their  case,  the 


SS  The    Little    Review 


utterance  of  clever  people  in  despair,  or  hivoering  upon  the  brink 
that  precipice  It  is  of  those  who  have  acceded  with  Renan  "I 
bctise  humaine  est  la  seule  chose  qui  donne  une  idee  de  I'infini." 
is  a  mind  cry.  more  than  a  heart  cry.  "Take  the  world  if  thou  w 
but  leave  me  an  asylum  fc/  my  affection"'  is  not  their  lamentatio 
but  rather  "In  the  midst  of  this  desolation,  give  me  at  least  one  i 
telligence  to  converse  with." 

The  arid  clarity,  not  without  its  own  beauty,  of  le  temper, 
ment  de  I'Americaine,  is  in  the  poems  of  these,  I  think,  gradual 
or  post-graduates.  If  they  have  not  received  B.  A.  's  or  M.  A.  's  i 
B.  Sc-s  they  do  not  need  them. 

The  point  of  my  praise,  for  I  intend  this  as  praise,  even  if  I  c 
not  burst  into  the  phrases  of  Victor  Hugo,  is  that  without  any  pr 
tences  and  without  clamours  about  nationality,  these  girls  ha^ 
written  a  distinctly  national  product,  they  have  written  somethir 
which  would  not  have  come  out  of  any  other  country,  and  (while 
have  before  now  seen  a  deal  of  rubbish  by  both  of  them)  they  ar 
as  selected  by  Mr.  Kreymborg,  interesting  and  readable  (by  me,  thi 
is.  I  am  aware  that  even  the  poems  before  me  would  drive  numei 
ous  not  wholly  unintelligent  readers  into  a  fury  of  rage-out-of-puj 
blement.)  Both  these  poetrial  have  said  a  number  of  things  not  t 
be  found  in  the  current  numbers  of  Everybody's,  the  Century  or  Mi ' 
Clare's  .  "The  Effectual  Marriage",  "French  Peacock",  "My  Apis 
Cousins"  have  each  in  its  way  given  me  pleasure  .  Miss  Moore  ha 
already  prewritten  her  counterblast  to  my  criticism  in  her  peer 
"To  a  Steam  Roller". 

Kreymborg's  anthology  contains  poems  by  Eliot;   by  Cannd 
who  manages  to  get  still  a  drop  more  poetry  from  that  worn  sub 
ject,  the  deity   (monotheist) ;    and  by  Carlos  Williams  who  oftfll 
delights  me  by  his  opacity,  a  distinctly  unamerican  quality,  and  t^ 
without  its  own  value.    Mr.  Kreymborg  is  getting  his  eye  in. 


The    Little'  Review  59 


^        THE    READER   CRITIC 

Astronomy 

The  Evening  Standard  addresses  us: 

"Amateur  and  professional  astronomers  all  over  the  world  will  heave  a 
great  sigh  of  relief  at  the  news  that  the  100-inch  mirror  of  the  new  Mount 
Wilson  telescope  has  safely  completed  its  perilous  nine-mile  ascent  of  the  moun- 
tain side  and  is  now  securely  installed  in  the  observatory. 

"The  priceless  mirror  (says  the  San  Francisco  correspondent  of  the  Daily 
Express),  which  took  twelve  years  to  cast  and  shape  and  cannot  be  duplicated 
in  the  rough,  owing  to  the  war,  is  expected  by  many  in  its  explorations  of  the 
abysses  of  space — 

"(a)     To  solve  at  last  the  mystery  of  the  canals  of  Mars. 

"(b)  To  bring  no  fewer  than  100,000,000  new  suns  into  the  observer's 
ken." 

On  s^encanaille. 

"(c)  To  advance  materially  the  solution  of  the  mystery  of  the  origin  of 
the  universe  by  determining  still  further  the  nature  of  the  gassy  nebluae,  which, 
science  is  generally  agreed,  are  unborn  world — suns  and  planets  visibly  in  the 
making." 

They  will  doubtless  tie  the  Pleiades  in  a  bow-knot  and  loose  the  bands 
of  Orion. 

"The  mirror  weighs  four  and  a  half  tons,  and  all  sorts  of  remarkable  me- 
chanical precautions  have  been  adopted  to  prevent  any  climatic  or  other  inter- 
ference with  the  100-ton  telescope  of  which  it  forms  the  most  important  part." 

0  world,  thou  Socratic  star,  the  gods  and  fairies  have  left  thee. 

X. 


Criticism 

M.  S.  F., 

As  you  ask  me,  I  will  tell  you  what  I  think  of  The  Little  Review.  The 
first  two  years  I  received  it,  it  was  a  constant  source  of  joy  to  me;  but  for  the 
last  year  and  a  half  it  has  been  filled  with  pointless  eccentricities  and  gargoyles, 
— with  once  in  a  while  a  very  beautiful  thing  in  it.     One  thing  for  which  I 


6o  The    Little    Review 


shall  love  the  memory  of  The  Little  Review  ii  its  freedom  and  fearlessness: 
it  is  startling  and  therefore  fine. 


R  a  y  m  0  n  d  e    Collignon 

There  is  a  new  diseusc  loose  on  London.  She  will  go  to  France  after  the 
war,  and  heaven  knows  when  she  will  get  to  America,  but  she  will  sometime. 
She  is  singing  folk-song  without  the  vegetarian  and  simple-life  element.  She  is 
the  first  singer  to  work  on  Walter  Rummel's  reconstructions  of  Xllth.  century 
Provencal  music.  Her  name  is  Raymonde  Collignon.  Verb.  sap.  She  is 
really  a  consummate  artist. — E.  P. 


COMPL AI NTS 


Your    Complaint 

Before  complaining  that  your  magazine  has  not  arrived 

please  remember  the  War 

Freight  congestion 
The  Garfield  holidays 
Government  control   of  railroads 

Our    Complaint 

If  our  subscribers  would  send  us  notice  of  changes  of 
address  it  would  help  us  to  keep  our  youth,  and  also  save 
further  congestion  of  the  mail  service  . 

Do  not  expect  your  postoffice  to  forward  your  magazine  . 
Any  forwarding  of  second-class  matter  is  a  re-mailing  and 
requires  postage.. 


The  Little  Revie^^ 

Respecting  no  vested  interests,  no  publishers' 

interests,  no  aged  magazines  and  reviews 

nor  staffs  of  the  same. 


IN  THE  APRIL  NUMBER  : 

•  Unanimism,  by  Ezra  Pound 
^Jlysses  (Episode  II),  by  James  Joyce 
The  Novels  of  Dorothy  Richardson,  by  May  Sinclair 
Imaginary  Letters,  IX.,  by  Wyndham  Lewis 
Reproductions  of  the  work  of  modern  American  artists 
Etc.,  Etc. 

IN  THE  MAY  NUMBER  : 

The  Ideal  Giant,  by  Wyndham  Lewis 

Imaginary  Letters,  X.,   {On  Suburbias),  by  Ezra  Pound 

Ulysses  {Episode  III),  by  James  Joyce 

Etc.,  Etc. 


24  West  Sixteenth  Street,        New  York  City 


I  THE    QUILL 

I  A  Magazine  of  Greenwich  Village 

1  Announces   the    Publication   of   a    folio 

I  GREENWICH   VILLAGE   by   its   ARTISTS 

1  fifteen  Sketches  and  Photographs  by 

I  HUGH  FERRISS,  MAUD  LANGTREE, 

I  FOREST  MANN  and  GLENN  O.  COLEMAN 

I  and   a   Map   of   the   Village. 

I  The  Cover  has  been  designed  by  HAROLD  TRUE. 

j  Two  Dollars  Postpaid  from  ARTHUR  H.  MOSS 

I  at  143  West  Fourth  Street,  New  York  City. 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^^ 


THE  PAGAN 

A  magazine  that  is  bound  to  take  the 
place  of  the  fine  magazines  lately  given  up 
because 

It  publishes  every  printable  form  of  fine 
art, — stories,  plays,  poems  (original  and  trans- 
lated), drawings,  etchings,  etc. 

15  cents  a  copy  $i-50  a  year 

THE  PAGAN  PUBLISHING  COMPANY 

147  Center  Street 
New     York     City 


n    Greenwich    Village^    New    York 


SOLVE  YOUR  FOOD  PROBLEM 

by  Eating  at  the  Strunsky  Restaurants 

Good  cooking — pleasant  envirnments — 

liberal  portions — moderate  prices. 


"THE  WASHINGTON 
SQUARE  RESTAURANT" 

19  West  Eighth  Street. 

"THREE   STEPS  DOWN" 

19  West  Eighth  Street. 

Between    Sth    &  6th    Avenue, 

CAFETERIA 

19  West  Eighth  Street. 

(Upstairs) 

Phone  Stuyvesant  1880 
Open  for   lunch   and   dinner. 


"THE   STUYVESANT 
SQUARE  RESTAURANT" 

201    Second   Ave. 

"THE    STUYVESANT 
CAFETERIA" 

201    Second    Avenue, 
^(Down  Stairs). 
Between    12th    &    13th    Street. 

Phone   Stuyvesant  3379. 

Open    for    lunch,    dinner    and 

evenings. 


f^EB 

VAN 
DAM 

|l   Sheridan 
Square 


In   the   Webb   Van   Dam  you  will   see 
Just  a  place  to  have  your  tea 
There  you  are  taken   by  the  hand 
To  a  Wigwam  in  No  Man's  Land 
There  you  have  a  nice  young  feller 
To  guide  you  down  to  the  cyclone  cellar 
Crullers  with  cider  you'll  eat  and  drink 
Then   home  you'll  go  to  sit  and  think 
And  in  your  dreams  you'll  seem  to  be 
A   Greenwich   Villager  just   like   me. 


1 

■I 

64 

The    Little    Review 

V^^^^^l^^^^^H 

1 


Your 
Chance 
To 
Help 


//  every  subscriber  will  get  two  ot\ 
three  nezu  subscribers,  it  zvill  helj 
us  greatly  with  the  important  mim* 
bers  to  come.    Send  us  names  alsa] 
of   any    of   your   friends   who   wil 
appreciate  sample  copies. 


Tlir    STRAniVARinS   OF    PIANO'- 


3t3    FIFTH    AVENUE 
NEW    YORK 


IHt  BtHLIIZ  SCHOOL  OF  LANtiUAQtS 

He    '  n  rice  — N*-    ^  „k,  28-30  West  34(b  ^^Tri 
loklvti  ;0  Uvincfston  Stn^«  i 


lii.tl    Lc- 


Lessurib  rnvateiy  and  in  Classes,  Day 
and  Evenings,  at  School  or  Residence 

RFnrNT  AWARDS- 


THE  LITTL 


W 


A  MAGAZINE   OF   THE   ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


"DOROTHY  RICHARDSON'S  NOVELS" 

by 
May  Sinclair 


THE  EGOIST 

iiPiiiiinii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiimiiiiiiu^ 

This  journal  is  not  a  chatty  literary  review:  its  inriis- 
sion  is  not  to  divert  and  amuse:  it  is  not  written  for  tired 
and  depressed  people.  Its  aim  is  rather  to  secure  a  fit  audi- 
ence, and  to  render  available  to  that  audience  contemporary 
literary  work  bearing  the  stamp  of  originality  and  per- 
manance:  to  present  in  the  making  those  contemporary 
literary  efforts  which  ultimately  will  constitute  20th 
century  literature. 

The  philosophical  articles  which  The  Egoist  publishes, 
by  presenting  the  subject-matter  of  metaphysics  in  a  form 
which  admits  of  logical  treatment,  are  promising  a  new 
era  for  philosophy .  The  power  of  its  fictional  work  is 
investing  that  commonest  but  laxest  of  literary  forms — the 
novel  (as  written  in  English) — with  a  new  destiny  and 
a  new  meaning.  In  poetry,  its  pages  are  open  to  exper- 
iments which  are  transforming  the  whole  conception  of 
poetic  form,  while  among  its  writers  appear  leaders  in 
pioneering  methods  radically  affecting  the  allied  arts. 

lllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllUlllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllliliy^ 

Obviously  a  journal  of  interest  to  virile  readers  only. 
Such  should  write,  enclosing  subscription,  to 

THE  EGOIST 

23  ADELPHI  TERRACE  HOUSE.   ROBERT  STREET 
LONDON.  W.  C.  2. 

iiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiyiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

PUBLISHED     MONTHLY 

Price,  fifteen  cents  a  number 
Yearly  subscription,  one  dollar  sixty  cents 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO   WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


APRIL,    1918 


The  Novels  of  Dorothy  Richardson 

The   Criterion 

Elimus 

Unanimism 

Ulysses,  II. 

Fragments 

Imaginary  Letters,  IX. 

Women  and  Men,  III. 


May  Sinclair 


B.    Windeler 

Ezra    Pound 

**     James  Joyce 

Ben  Hecht 

Wyndham  Lewis 

Ford  Madox  Hueffer 


Copyright,    1918,    by    Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,    Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

ft 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  Nezv  York 

Foreign  office: 

5  FloUand  Place  Chambers,  London  W.  8. 

25  cents  a  copy  $2.50  a  year 


Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THE    FLYING   STAG   PLAYS 

FOR  THE  LITTLE  THEATRE 

THE  BEST 
ONE-ACT  PLAYS 

produced  by  the  Washington  Square  Players,  the 
Provincetown  Players,  the  Greenwich  Village  Players, 
and  others,  will  be  included  in  this  series. 

NOW  READY 
THE  CHESTER  MYSTERIES,  a  Passion  Play,  as  played  on  Christmas  eve  by 
the  Greenwich  Village  Players. 

No.  1.     THE    SANDBAR    QUEEN,    by    George    Cronyn,    as    played    by    the 
Washington  Square  Players. 

No.  2.     NIGHT,  by  James  Oppenhcim,  as  played  by  the  Provincetown  Players. 

No.  3.     THE  ANGEL   INTRUDES,   by   Floyd   Dell,    (Provincetown   Players). 
Ready  in  March. 

IN  PREPARATION 
No.  4.     BARBARIANS,   by   Rita   Wellman,    (Provincetown   Players).     Ready 
in  April. 

No.  5.     THE  SLAVE  WITH  TWO  FACES,  by  Mary  CaroUne  Davies,  (Province- 
town  Players). 
SUBSCRIBE  NOW 

Published  by  EGMONT  ARENS,  at  the 
Washington  Square  Book  Shop,  New  York 

T  0     B  E     PUBLISHED     MONTHLY 

Thirty  Five  Cents  Each  Three  Dollars   a  Year 


EUGENE 

H  UTCHINSON 

PHOTOGRAPHS 

Fine  Arts  Building 

Michigan 

Boulevard,    Chicago 

THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.lV.  APRIL,  1918  No.  12 

THE   NOVELS  OF  DOROTHY  RICHARDSON 

May    Sinclair 

Pointed  Roofs  . 

Backwater. 

Honeycomb. 

(Duckworth  and  company,  London). 

I  HAVE  been  asked  to  write  —  for  this  magazine  which  makes  no 
compromise  with  the  public  taste  —  a  criticism  of  the  novels 
of  Dorothy  Richardson.  The  editors  of  the  Little  Review  are 
committed  to  Dorothy  Richardson  by  their  declared  intentions;  for 
her  works  make  no  sort  of  compromise  with  the  public  taste.  If 
they  are  not  announced  with  the  same  proud  challenge  it  is 
because  the  pride  of  the  editors  of  the  Little  Review  is  no  mate  for 
the  pride  of  Miss  Richardson  which  ignores  the  very  existence  of  the 
public  and  its  taste. 

I  do  not  know  whether  this  article  is  or  is  not  going  to  be  a  criti- 
cism, for  so  soon  as  I  beg-in  to  think  what  I  shall  say  I  find  myself 
criticising  criticism,  wondering  what  is  the  matter  with  it  and  what,  if 
anything,  can  be  done  to  make  it  better,  to  make  it  alive.  Only  a 
live  criticism  can  deal  appropriately  with  a  live  art.  And  it  seems 
to  me  that  the  first  step  towards  life  is  to  throw  off  the  philosophic 
cant  of  the  XlXth  Century.  I  don't  mean  that  there  is  no  philoso- 
phy of  Art,  or  that  if  there  has  been  there  is  to  be  no  more  of  it;  I 
mean  that  it  is  absurd  to  go  on  talking  about  realism  and  idealism, 
or  objective  and  subjective  art,  as  if  the  philosophies  were  sticking 
where  they  stood  in  the  eighties. 

In  those  days  the  distinction  between  idealism  and  realism, 
between  subjective  and  objective  was  important  and  precise.  And 
so  long  as  the  ideas  they  stand  for  had  importance  and  precision 


The     Little     Review 


those  words  were  lamps  to  the  feet  and  lanterns  to  the  path  of  the 
critic.  Even  after  they  had  begun  to  lose  precision  and  importance 
they  still  served  him  as  useful  labels  for  the  bewildering  phenpmena 
of  the  arts. 

But  now  they  are  beginning  to  give  trouble;  they  obscure  the 
issues.  Mr.  J.  B.  Beresford  in  his  admirable  introduction  to  Pointed 
Roofs  confesses  to  having  felt  this  trouble.  WTien  he  read  it  in 
manuscript  he  decided  that  it  "was  realism,  was  objective."  When 
he  read  it  in  typescript  he  thought:  "this  .  .  is  the  most  subjective 
thing  I  have  ever  read."  It  is  evident  that,  when  first  faced  with 
the  startling  "newness"  of  Miss  Richardson's  method  and  her  form, 
the  issues  did  seem  a  bit  obscure  to  Mr.  Beresford.  It  was  as  if  up 
to  one  illuminating  moment  he  had  been  obliged  to  think  of  methods 
and  forms  as  definitely  objective  or  definitely  subjective.  His  il- 
luminating moment  came  with  the  third  reading  when  Pointed  Roofs 
was  a  printed  book.  The  book  itself  gave  him  the  clue  to  his  own 
trouble,  which  is  my  trouble,  the  first  hint  that  criticism  up  till  now 
has  been  content  to  think  in  cliches,  missing  the  new  trend  of  the 
philosophies  of  the  XXth  Century.  All  that  we  know^  of  reality  at 
first  hand  is  given  to  us  through  contacts  in  which  those  interesting 
distinctions  are  lost.  Reality  is  thick  and  deep,  too  thick  and  too 
deep  and  at  the  same  time  too  fluid  to  be  cut  with  any  convenient 
carving  knife.  The  novelist  who  would  be  close  to  reality  must  con- 
fine himself  to  this  knowledge  at  first  hand.  He  must,  as  Mr.  Beres- 
ford says,  simply  "plunge  in".  Mr.  Beresford  also  says  that  Miss 
Richardson  is  the  first  novelist  who  has  plunged  inf.  She  has  plunged 
so  neatly  and  quietly  that  even  admirers  of  her  performance  might 
remain  unaware  of  what  it  is  precisely  that  she  has  done.  She  has 
disappeared  while  they  are  still  waiting  for  the  splash.  So  that  Mr. 
Beresford's  introduction  was  needed. 

When  first  I  read  Pointed  Roofs  and  Backwater  and  Honey- 
comb I  too  thought,  like  Mr.  Beresford,  that  Miss  Richardson  has 
been  the  first  to  plunge.  But  it  seems  to  me  rather  that  she  has 
followed,  independently,  perhaps  unconsciously,  a  growing  tendency 
to  plunge.  As  far  back  as  the  eighties  the  de  Goncourts  plunged 
completely,  finally, '  in  Soeur  PJiilomene,  Germinie  Lacerteux  and 
Les  Frdres  Zemganno.  Marguerite  Audoux  plunged  in  the  best  pas- 
sages of  Marie  Claire.  The  best  of  every  good  novelist's  best 
work  is  a  more  or  less  sustained  immersion.    The  more  modern  the 


The    Little    Review 


novelist  the  longer  his  capacity  to  stay  under.  Miss  Richardson 
has  not  plunged  deeper  than  Mr.  James  Joyce  in  his  Portrait  of  the 
Artist  as  a  Young  Man. 

By  imposing  very  strict  limitations  on  herself  she  has  brought 
her  art,  her  method,  to  a  high  pitch  of  perfection,  so  that  her  form 
seems  to  be  newer  than  it  perhaps  is.  She  herself  is  unaware  of  the 
perfection  of  her  rr^ethod.  She  would  probably  deny  that  she  has 
written  with  any  deliberate  method  at  all.  She  would  say:  "I  only 
know  there  are  certain  things  I  mustn't  do  if  I  was  to  do  what  I 
wanted."  Obviously,  she  must  not  interfere;  she  must  not  analyse 
or  comment  or  explain.  Rather  less  obviously,  she  must  not  tell  a 
story,  or  handle  a  situation  or  set  a  scene;  she  must  avoid  drama  as 
she  avoids  narration.  And  there  are  some  things  she  must  not  be. 
She  must  not  be  the  wise,  all-knowing  author.  She  must  be  Miriam 
Henderson:  She  must  not  know  or  divine  anything  that  Miriam 
does  not  know  or  divine;  she  must  not  see  anything  that  Miriam 
does  not  see.  She  has  taken  Miriam's  nature  upon  her.  She  is  not 
concerned,  in  the  way  that  other  novelists  are  concerned,  with 
character.  Of  the  persons  who  move  through  Miriam's  world  you 
know  nothing  but  what  Miriam  knows.  If  Miriam  is  mistaken,  well, 
she  and  not  Miss  Richardson  is  mistaken.  Miriam  is  an  acute  ob- 
server, but  she  is  very  far  from  seeing  the  whole  of  these  people. 
They  are  presented  to  us  in  the  same  vivid  but  fragmentary  way  in 
which  they  appeared  to  Miriam,  the  fragmentary  way  in  which 
people  appear  to  most  of  us.  Miss  Richardson  has  only  imposed  on 
herself  the  conditions  that  life  imposes  on  all  of  us.  And  if  you  are 
going  to  quarrel  with  those  conditions  you  will  not  find  her  novels 
satisfactory.    But  your  satisfaction  is  not  her  concern. 

And  I  find  it  impossible  to  reduce  to  intelligible  terms  this 
satisfaction  that  I  feel.  To  me  these  three  novels  show  an  art  and 
method  and  form  carried  to  punctilious  perfection.  Yet  I  have 
heard  other  novelists  say  that  they  have  no  art  and  no  method  and 
no  form,  and  that  it  is  this  formlessness  that  annoys  them.  They 
say  that  they  have  no  beginning  and  no  middle  and  no  end,  and 
that  to  have  form  a  novel  must  have  an  end  and  a  beginning  and  a 
middle.  We  have  come  to  words  that  in  more  primitive  times  would 
have  been  blows  on  this  subject.  There  is  a  certain  plausibility  in 
what  they  say,  but  it  depends  on  what  constitutes  a  beginning  and  a 
middle  and  an  end.    In  this  series  there  is  no  drama,  no  situation, 


The    Little    Review 


no  set  scene.  Nothing  happens.  It  is  just  life  going  on  and  on.  It 
is  Miriam  Henderson's  stream  of  consciousness  going  on  and  on. 
And  in  neither  is  there  any  grossly  discernible  beginning  or  middle 
or  end. 

In  identifying  herself  with  this  life  which  is  Miriam's  stream 
of  consciousness  Miss  Richardson  produces  her  effect  of  being  the 
first,  of  getting  closer  to  reality  than  any  of  our  novelists  who  are 
trying  so  desperately  to  get  close.  No  attitude  or  gesture  of  her 
own  is  allowed  to  come  between  her  and  her  effect.  Whatever  her 
sources  and  her  raw  material,  she  is  concerned  and  we  ought  to  be 
concerned  solely  with  the  finished  result,  the  work  of  art.  It  is  to 
Miriam's  almost  painfully  acute  senses  that  we  owe  what  in  any 
other  novelist  would  be  called  the  "portratis"  of  Miriam's  mother, 
of  her  sister  Harriet,  of  the  Corries  and  Joey  Banks  in  Honeycomb, 
of  the  Miss  Pernes  and  Julia  Doyle,  and  the  north  London  school- 
girls in  Backwater,  of  Fraulein  Pfaff  and  Mademoiselle,  of  the  Mar- 
tins and  Emma  Bergmann  and  Ulrica-  and  "the  Australian''  in 
Pointed  Roofs.    The  mere  "word  painting''  is  masterly. 

"...  Miriam  noticed  only  the  hoarse,  hacking  laugh  of  the 
Australian.  Her  eyes  flew  up  the  table  and  fixed  her  as  she  sat 
laughing,  her  chair  drawn  back,  her  knees  crossed  —  tea  was  draw- 
ing to  an  end.  The  detail  of  her  terrifyingly  stylish  ruddy-brown 
frieze  dress  with  its  Norfolk  jacket  bodice  and  its  shiny  leather  belt 
was  hardly  distinguishable  from  the  dark  background  made  by  the 
folding  doors.  But  the  dreadful  outline  of  her  shoulders  was  visible, 
the  scjuarish  oval  of  her  face  shone  out  —  the  wide  forehead  from 
whiph  the  wiry  black  hair  was  coined  W-a.  hi.s^^pUff,  the  red  eyes, 
black  now,  the  long-,  straight  nose,  the  wide,  laughing  mouth  with 
the  enormous  teeth." 

And  so  on  all  round  the  school  tea-table.  It  looks  easy  enough 
to  "do"  until  you  try  it.  There  are  thirteen  figures  round  that 
table  and  each  is  drawn  with  the  first  few  strokes  and  so  well  that 
you  see  them  all  and  never  afterwards  can  you  mistake  or  confuse 
them. 

You  look  at  the  outer  world  through  Miriam's  senses  and  it  is 
as  if  you  had  never  seen  it  so  vividly  before.  Miriam  in  Back- 
water is  on  the  top  of  a  bus,  driving  from  North  London  to  Picca- 
dilly: 

"On  the  left  a  tall  grey  church  was  coming  towards  them, 


The    Little    Review 


spindling  up  into  the  sky.  It  sailed  by,  showing  Miriam  a  circle 
of  little  stone  pillars  built  into  its  spire.  Plumy  trees  streamed  by, 
standing  large  and  separate  on  moss-green  grass  railed  from  the  road- 
way. Bright,  white-faced  houses  with  pillared  porches  shone  through 
from  behind  them  and  blazed  white  above  them  against  the  blue  sky. 
Wide  side  streets  opened,  showing  high  balconied  houses.  The  side 
streets  were  feathered  with  trees  and  ended  mistily. 

"Away  ahead  were  edges  of  clean,  bright  masonry  in  profile, 
soft,  tufted  heads  of  trees,  bright  green  in  the  clear  light.  At  the 
end  of  the  vista  the  air  was  like  pure  saffron-tinted  mother-of-pearl." 

Or  this  "interior"  from  Honeycomb:  .  .  .  "the  table  like  an 
island  under  the  dome  of  the  low-hanging  rose-shaded  lamp,  the 
table-centre  thickly  embroidered  with  beetles'  wings,  the  little  dishes 
stuck  about,  sweets,  curiously  crusted  brown  almonds,  sheeny  grey- 
green  olives;  the  misty  beaded  glass  of  the  finger  bowls  —  Venetian 
glass  from  that  shop  in  Regent  Street  —  the  four  various  wine 
glasses  at  each  rig'ht  hand,  one  on  a  high  thin  stem,  curved  and 
fluted  like  a  shallow  tulip,  filled  with  hock;  and  floating  in  the 
warmth  amongst  all  these  things  the  strange,  exciting  dry  sweet 
fragrance  coming  from  the  mass  of  mimosa,  a  forest  of  little  powdery 
Wossoms,  little  stiff  grey  —  the  arms  of  railway  signals  at  junctions 
—  Japanese  looking  leaves  —  standing  as  if  it  were  growing,  in  a 
shallow  bowl  under  the  rose-shaded  lamp." 

It  is  as  if  no  other  writers  had  ever  used  their  senses  so  purely 
and  with  so  intense  a  joy  in  their  use. 

This  intensity  is  the  effect  of  an  extreme  concentration  on  the 
thing  seen  or  felt.  Miss  Richardson  disdains  every  stroke  that  does 
not  tell.  H'er  novels  are  novels  of  an  extraordinary  compression  and 
of  an  extenuation  more  extraordinary  still.  The  moments  of  Miriam's 
consciousness  pass  one  by  one,  or  overlapping,  moments  tense  with 
vibration,  moments  drawn  out  fine,  almost  to  snapping  point.  On 
one  page  Miss  Richardson  seems  to  be  accounting  for  every  minute 
of  Miriam's  time.  On  another  she  passes  over  events  that  might  be 
considered  decisive  with  the  merest  slur  of  reference.  She  is  not 
concerned  with  the  strict  order  of  events  in  time.  Chapter  Three 
of  Pointed  Roofs  opens  with  an  air  of  extreme  decision  and  import- 
ance: "Miriam  was  practising  on  the  piano  in  the  larger  of  the  two 
English  bedrooms,"  as  if  something  hung  on  her  practising.  But 
■"no,  nothing  hangs  on  it,  and  if  you  want  to  know  on  what  day  she 


The    Little    Review 


is  practising  you  have  to  read  on  and  back  again.  It  doesn't  mat- 
ter. It  is  Miriam's  consciousness  that  is  going  backwards  and  for- 
wards in  time.  The  time  it  goes  in  is  unimportant.  On  the  hun- 
dredth page  out  of  three  hundred  and  twelve  pages  Mirian  has  been 
exactly  two  weeks  in  Hanover.  Nothing  has  happened  but  the  in- 
finitely little  affairs  of  the  school,  the  practising,  the  "Vorspielen", 
the  English  lesson,  the  "raccommodage",  the  hair-washing.  At 
the  end  of  the  book  Friiulcin  Pfaff  is  on  the  station  platform,  gently 
propelling  Miriam  "up  three  steps  into  a  compartment  marked 
Damen-Coupe.  It  smelt  of  biscuits  and  wine."  Miriam  has  been 
no  more  than  six  months  in  Hanover.  We  are  not  told,  and  Miriam 
Is  not  told,  but  we  know  as  Miriam  knows  that  she  is  going  because 
Pastor  Lahmann  has  shown  an  interest  in  Miriam  very  disturbing  to 
Fraulein  Pfaff 's  interest  in  him.  We  are  not  invited  to  explore  the 
tortuous  mind  of  the  pious,  sentimental,  secretly  hysterical  Fraulein; 
but  we  know,  as  Miriam  knows,  that  before  she  can  bring  herself 
to  part  with  her  English  governess  she  must  persuade  herself  that 
it  is  Miriam  and  not  Mademoiselle  who  is  dismissed  because  she  is 
an  unwholesome  influence. 

In  this  small  world  where  nothing  happens  "that  dreadful  talk 
with  Gertrude",  and  Friiulein's  quarrel  with  the  servant  Anna,  the 
sound  of  her  laugh  and  her  scream.  "Ja,  Sie  Konnen  Ihre  paar  Gro- 
schen  haben!  Ihre  paar  Groschen!",  and  Miriam's  vision  of  Made- 
moiselle's unwholesomeness,  stand  out  as  significant  and  terrifying. 
They  are  terrifying;  they  are  significant;  through  them  we  know 
Gertrude,  we  know  Fraulein  Pfaff,  we  know  Mademoiselle  as  Miri- 
am knows  them,  under  their  disguises. 

At  the.  end  of  the  third  volume.  Honeycomb,  there  is,  appa- 
rently, a  break  with  the  design.  Something  does  happen.  Some- 
thing tragic  and  terrible.  We  are  not  told  what  it  is;  we  know  as 
Miriam  knows,  only  by  inference.  Miriam  is  sleeping  in  her  mo- 
ther's room. 

"Five  o'clock.  Three  more  hours  before  the  day  began.  The 
other  bed  was  still.  "It's  going  to  be  a  magnificent  day",  she  mur- 
mured, pretending  to  stretch  and  yawn  again.  A  sigh  reached  her. 
The  stillness  went  on  and  she  lay  for  an  hour  tense  and  listening. 
Someone  else  must  know  ...  At  the  end  of  the  hour  a  descending 
darkness  took  her  suddenly.  She  woke-  from  it  to  the  sound  of  vio- 
lent language,  furniture  being  roughly  moved,  a  swift,  angry  splasli- 


The    Little    Review 


ing  of  water  .  .  .  something  breaking  out,  breaking  through  the  con- 
finements of  this  little  furniture-filled  room  .  .  .  the  best  gentlest 
thing  she  knew  openly  despairing  at  last." 

Here  Miss  Richardson  "gets"  you  as  she  gets  you  all  the  time 
—  she  never  misses  once  —  by  her  devout  adhesion  to  her  method, 
by  the  sheer  depth  of  her  plunge.  For  this  and  this  alone  is  the  way 
things  happen.  AVhat  we  used  to  call  the  "objective"  method  is  a 
method  of  after-thought,  of  spectacular  reflection.  What  has  hap- 
pened has  happened  in  Miriam's  bedroom,  if  you  like;  but  only  by 
reflection.  The  firsthand,  intimate  and  intense  reality  of  the  hap- 
pening is  in  Miriam's  mind,  and  by  presenting  it  thus  and  not  other- 
wise Miss  Richardson  seizes  reality  alive.  The  intense  rapidity  of 
the  seizure  defies  you  to  distinguish  between  what  is  objective  and 
what  is  subjective  either  in  the  reality  presented  or  the  art  that 
presents. 

Nothing  happens.  In  Miriam  Henderson's  life  there  is,  ap- 
parently, nothing  to  justify  living.  Everything  she  ever  wanted 
was  either  withheld  or  taken  from  her.  She  is  reduced  to  the  barest 
minimum  on  which  it  is  possible  to  support  the  life  of  the  senses 
and  the  emotions  at  all.  And  yet  Miriam  is  happy.  Her  inexhaus- 
tible passion  for  life  is  fed.  Nothing  happens,  and  yet  everything 
that  really  matters  is  happening;  you  are  held  breathless  with  the 
anticipation  of  its  happening.  What  really  matters  is  a  state  of 
mind,  the  interest  or  the  ecstasy  with  which  we  close  with  life.  It 
can't  be  explained.  To  quote  Mr.  Beresfdrd  again:  "explanation 
in  this  connection  would  seem  to  imply  knowledge  that  only  the  mys- 
tics can  faintly  realise".  But  Miss  Richardson's  is  a  mysticism 
apart.  It  is  compatible  with,  it  even  encourages  such  dialogue 
as  this: 

"  'Tea'  "  smiled  Eve  serenely. 

"  'All  right,  I'm  coming,  damn  you,  aren't  I  ?' 

"  'Oh,  Mimmy!' 

"  'Well,  damn  me,  then.  Somebody  in  the  house  must  swear. 
I  say.  Eve!' 

"  'What?' 

'.'  '  Nothing,  only  I  sayJ 

"  '  Urn.'  " 

It  is  not  wholly  destroyed  when  Miriam  eats  bread  and  butter 
thus:    "When  she  began  at  the  hard  thick  edge  there  always  seemed 


10  The    Little    Review 


to  be  tender  places  on  her  gums,  her  three  hollow  teeth  were  uneasy 
and  she  had  to  get  through  worrying  thoughts  about  them  —  they 
would  get  worse  as  the  years  went  by,  and  the  little  places  in  the 
front  would  grow  big  and  painful  and  disfiguring.  After  the  first 
few  mouthfuls  of  solid  bread  a  sort  of  padding  seemed  to  take  place 
and  she  could  go  on  forgetful." 

This  kind  of  thing  annoys  Kensirrgton.  I  do  not  say  that  it 
really  matters  but  that  it  is  compatible  with  what  really  matters. 
Because  of  such  passages  it  is  a  pity  that  Miss  Richardson  could  : 
not  use  the  original  title  of  her  series:  "Pilgrimage,"  for  it  shows 
what  she  is  really  after.  Each  book  marks  a  stage  in  Miriam's 
pilgrimage.  We  get  the  first  hint  of  where  she  is  going  to  in  the 
opening  of  the  tenth  chapter  of  Pointed  Roofs:  "Into  all  the  gather- 
ings at  Waldstrasse  the  outside  world  came  like  a  presence.  It  re- 
moved the  sense  of  pressure,  of  being  confronted  and  challenged. 
Everything  that  was  said  seemed  to  be  incidental  to  it,  like  remarks 
dropped  in  a  low  tone  between  individuals  at  a  great  conference." 
In  Backwater  the  author's  intention  becomes  still  clearer.  In  Honey- 
comb it  is  transparently  clear: 

"Her  room  was  a  great  square  of  happy  light  .  .  .  happy,  happy. 
She  gathered  up  all  the  sadness  she  had  ever  known  and  flung  it 
from  her.  All  the  dark  things  of  the  past  flashed  with  a  strange 
beauty  as  she  flung  them  out.  The  light  had  been  there  all  the 
time;  but  she  had  known  it  only  at  moments.  Now  she  knew  what 
she  wanted.  Bright  mornings,  beautiful  bright  rooms,  a  wilderness  of 
beauty  all  round  her  all  the  time  —  at  any  cost." 

And  yet  not  that: 

"Something  that  was  not  touched,  that  sang  far  away  down 
inside  the  gloom,  that  cared  nothing  for  the  creditors  and  could  get 
away  down  and  down  into  the  twilight  far  away  from  the  everlast- 
ing accusations  of  humanity  ....  Deeper  down  was  something  cool 
and  fresh  —  endless  —  an  endless  garden.  In  happiness  it  came 
up  and  made  everything  in  the  world  into  a  garden.  Sorrow  blotted 
it  out;  but  it  was  always  there,  waiting  and  looking  on.  It  had 
looked  on  in  Germany  and  had  loved  the  music  and  the  words  and 
the  happiness  of  the  German  girls,  and  at  Banbury  Park,  giving  her 
no  peace  until  she  got  away. 

"And  now  it  had  come  to  the  surface  and  was  with  her  all  the 
time." 


The    Little    Review  ii 


There  are  two  essays  of  Remy  de  Gourmont  in  Promenades  Lit- 
teraires,  one  on  "I'Originalite  de  Maeterlinck,"  one  on  "La  Legon  de 
Saint-Antoine."  Certain  passages  might  have  been  written  concern- 
ing the  art  of  Dorothy  Richardson:  — 

"Si  la  vie  en  soi  est  un  bienfait,  iet  il  faut  I'accepter  comme 
telle  on  la  nier,  le  fait  meme  de  vivre  le  contient  tout  entier,  et  les 
grands  mouvements  de  la  sensibilite,  loin  de  I'enrichir,  1'  appauvris- 
Sent  au  contraire,  en  concentrant  sur  quelques  partis  de  nous-memes, 
envahies  au  hasard  par  la  destinee  1'  effort  d'  attention  qui  serait 
plus  uniformenent  reparti  sur  1'  ensemble  de  notre  conscience  vitale. 
De  ce  point  de  vue  une  vie  ou  il  semblerait  ne  rien  se  passer  que  d' 
elementaire  et  quotidien  serait  mieux  remplie  qu'une  autre  vie  riche 
en  apparence  d'  incidents  et  d'  aventures"  ....  "II  y  a  peut-etre  un 
sentiment  nouveau  a  creer,  celui  de  1'  amour  de  la  vie  pour  la  vie 
elle-meme,  abstraction  faite  des  grandes  joies  qu'elle  ne  donne  pas 
a  tous,  et  qu'  die  ne  donne  peut-etre  a  personne  .  .  .  Notre  paradis, 
c'  est  la  journee  qui  passe  ,1a  minute  qui  s'  envole,  le  moment  qui 
n'est  dija  plus.    Telle  est  la  legon  de  Saint  Antoine." 


THE    CRITERION 

"Art",  said  the  chimpanzee,  "which  /  have  to  study  before  / 
can  understand  it,  is  fatally  lacking  somewhere."  "Upon  this  prin- 
cipal", said  the  chimpanzee,  "we  must  reject  Mr.  Browning's 
Sordellor 


12  The     Little     Review 


ELIMUS 

B.    Windeler 

DRIVING  rain  beat  on  the  deserted  quay,  clearing  black  scum 
from  the  man-messed  waters  of  the  basin  — 
Derelict  bottles  jostled  against  the.  hard   stone   sides,   and   the 
vulture  cranes  kept  sentinel,  wrapped  in  their  own  warm  steam. 
Elimus  leaned  on  the  bulwarks. 
He  did  not  like  it. 

He  had  imagined  other  lands  sunny;  the  family  had  never 
spoken  of  rain  —  that  was  wrong  of  them  —  perhaps  they  didn't 
know  —  he  must  tell  them. 

There  was  shouting  from  a  tug;  he  could  not  hear  what  they 
were  saying:  — 

JOHN     PARKER 

COLLINGWOOD 

ColHngwood  was  an  admiral  — 
Sweat  drips  squeezed  from  octopus  hawsers,  clutching  their  prey — 
a  coir  rack  wringing  staccato  cries  from  engine  room  bells,  stilling 
slow  pulse  throbs. 

The  cranes  turned  on  their  iron  heels  noseing  fresh  carcase  to 
be  disembowled;  little  bunches  of  oilskin-men  swayed  on  the  quay 

—  black  phrases  hugging-  its  wharf  doll. 

Elimus  shuddered  ....  should  he  give  the  steward  a  sovereign? 

That  was  a  lot!  ^ 

There  was  a  trample  of  feet  overhead;  the  gangway  was  down 

—  narrow  path  to  destinies:  —  He  was  almost  afraid  of  it. 

His  hand-bag  was  on  the  seat  behind  him  —  that  was  all  right, 
people  were  such  thieves  abroad;  he  must  guard  against  that. 

The  steward,  pale  vacuous  face  with  mendicant  smile  on  stubb, 
sidled  along  the  deck. 

—  Perhaps  fifteen  shillings! 

He  only  shaved  every  other  day  because  he  said  it  made  his 
face  sore  —  gentlemen  shaved  every  day. 


The    Little    Review  13 

—  A  sovereign. 

Thank  you,  Sir,  .  .  .  .  er,  will  you  pay  your  wine  bill? 

—  Of  course  he  would. 

He  was  rather  proud  of  his  wine  bill,  he  paid  it  and  told  the 
steward  to  keep  the  change.  He  put  the  receipt  in  his  notebook,  in 
his  breast-pocket,  and  buttoned  his  coat: 

— That  made  more  than  a  sovereign  he  had  given  him! 

He  was  sorry  to  leave  the  ship:  the  steward  was  very  kind. 

Over  the  gangway,  cinema-moving  of  wet  people  and  the  sharp 
form  of  the  sixpence  hunter.  Times'  plutocrats  lolled  collar  and 
coatless,  dealing  in  unseen  futures,  loftily  watching  needy  afflu- 
ence —  minute-racked  jobbers  on  life's  exchange.  He  saw  his  box 
hoisted  from  the  forehold,  and  dumped  on  the  quay;  it  fell  in  a 
puddle. 

They  were  very  rough  — 

He  asked  a  man  if  there  were  any  cabs. 

The  man  said: 

—  ''Search  me." 

More  boxes  swung  into  the  wet  air:  camouflage  of  Ego's 
nakedness  cased  in  variegated  wrappers,  jibbeted,  —  a  grease  paint 
give  away,  to  the  cold  gaze  of  unconcerned  by-passers. 

Someone  brought  a  trolly  from  the  open  door  of  a  warehouse; 
Elimus  found  one  and  pushed  his  box  inside. 

His  socks  felt  wet:  he  should  have  put  on  his  thick  boots  —  but 
the  brown  ones  looked  better. 

He  could  leave  his  box  inside  if  he  liked. 

—  Take  it  off  the  trolly  ....  someone  else  wanted  that!  They 
didn't  give  receipts.  —  Should  he  leave  it?  —  Hard  faced  expletive 
men  nodded  to  each  other.  There  was  labour  of  cameraderies'  old 
jest,  giving  birth  to  new  laughter:  a  smell  of  damp  clothes  and 
onion  breath. 

He  felt  very  lonely. 

He  took  an  envelope  from  his  pocket  and  read  the  address; 
he  knew  it  by  heart  already. 

Electric  Light,  Power  and  Telephone  Co., 

121  West  Street. 

Mr.  Spurge. 


14  The    Little     Review 

—  A  paper  pass  to  the  Olympic  games  of  chance  fortunes. 

It  was  nice  of  Uncle  Robert  to  give  him  that:  he  wished  he  had 
taken  a  higher  degree;  but  telephones.  —  He  felt  safe  on  telephones. 

Rains,  grey  back  cloth  lifted,  and  the  evening  sun  sank  throw- 
ing a  last  beam:  yellow  limelight  through  cloud  shutters  on  a  Noah's 
Ark  town. 

West  Street  was  the  third  turning  up  the  hill,  he  couldn't  miss  it. 

He  could  see  the  church. 

Dabbled  feet  trod  with  knight-moves  over  wet  cobbles  as  he 
walked  from  the  wharf  up  the  main  street,  closely  gripping  his  bag 
in  the  quick  falling  dusk. 

Saloon-bar's  harbour  lights  gleamed  on  a  pavement  sea  —  bright 
ports  of  synthetic  sunshine. 

A  door  opened  flinging  stale  smoke-borne  gusts  of  tongues, 
clinking  glass  and  spitting,  on  to  the  damp  air  of  the  darkening 
street. 

Elimus  thought  he  would  go  in  —  he  was  a  man  now.    He  might 
miss  Mr.  Spurge  though!  .  .  .  that  wouldn't  do;  he  mustn't  start  like" 
that. 

He  tramped  on. 

—  Sixty-nine,  seventy-one,  seventy-three  ....  some  had  no 
numbers  —  a  hundred  and  seventeen,  a  hundred  and  nineteen 

—  A  low  building  squat  on  wood  piles  puffed  its  chest  to  the 
reflected  glory  of  the  "Power  and  Telephone"  sign  in  red  and  white 
lamps  across  its  bosom.  One  felt  it  wore  a  dicky. 

There  was  a  boy  at  a  desk,  ambushed  behind  bunches  of  globe 
fruit  on  brass  stalks  in  the  window. 

Elimus  went  in  stumbling  over  two  steps  at  the  door. 

The  boy  sat  behind  a  hard  wood  counter,  nail  biting  —  a  smell 
of  ceiling  wax  and  boredom. 

Was  Mr.  Spurge  in? 

The  boy  said: 

—  What  time? 

Elimus  felt  for  his  watch,  he  had  not  expected  that. 
The  boy  turned  round  solemnly: 

—  Gee,  here's  a  guy  —  noap,  —  say.  mister,  happen  you've 
heard  of  appointments!  —  Are  you  called  any? 

Elimus  vaguely  felt  something  was  wrong,  he  proffered  his  talis- 
man. ' 


1 


T  he    Little    Review  15 

—  I  have  a  letter  for  Mr.  Spurge:  —  my  name's  Elimus  — 
Elimus  Hackett.     (This  an  afterthought.) 

—  My  ....  beheve  you  me  mister,  Mr.  Spurge  ain't  takin  no 
talk  from  most  anyone  —  noap:  that's  so,  sure. 

Elimus  grappled  with  this,  chewing  it  over  cow-like;  he  could 
make  nothing  of  it  and  was  beginning  again,  when  a  door  opened  on 
the  left  and  a  small  man  came  in. 

Sallow  with  pince-nez  over  mild  eyes,  he  had  a  dull  beard  and 
looked  rather  dusty.  The  boy  indicated  Elimus  with  his  thumb:  — 
"got  a  letter." 

—  Are  you  Mr.  Spurge?    Elimus  asked.    He  was. 

—  Uncle  Robert  —  Robert  Hackett;  he's  my  uncle,  you  know. 
— Who  did  you  say? 

—  Uncle  Robert  —  Robert  Hackett;  he's  my  uncle,  you  know. 

—  Dear  me,  dear  me;  ...  yes,  yes;  Hackett!  I  remember  Hac- 
kett, ....  come  inside. 

They  went  through  the  door  labelled  "Mr.  Spurge"  —  the 
R  was  missing:  there  was  a  big  desk  and  two  hard  chairs,  all  covered 
with  the  extraordinary  charms  of  a  metaphone  vividly  depicted  on 
small  pamphlets. 

—  Ah,  ....  let  me  see,  yes  .  .  .  um,  we  have  so  few  openings 
you  know  ....  Ah,  .  .  telegraph  —  telephones  —  yes,  yes:  —  and 
how  was  the  family? 

Elimus  did  not  care  about  the  family,  he  knew  his  subject  and 
he  talked:  panic  of  early  failure  seized  him  —  he  would  take  any- 
thing. 

A  new  line  to  be  run  up  north  —  yes,  he  didn't  mind  rough- 
ing it. 

Dugdale  was  on  it  —  capable  man,  Dugdale;  —  no,  he  didn't 
know  him  yet. 

—  Out  there  now,  at  Rocklake;  not  far  though  —  about  a  hun- 
dred miles  ....  he  could  start  at  once  —  yes,  —  he  would  call  again 
in  the  morning  and  settle  things  up.    That  would  be  very  nice. 

Elimus  found  himself  in  the  street  again,  a  wild  joy  hugged 
him,  dragging  him  alTxig  breathless,  splashing  in  wet  puddles.  The 
syren  song  of  future's  success  whistled  in  his  ears,  magnified  in  an- 
ticipation's megaphone  —  he  must  write  to  the  family  —  that  was  it 
—  write  to  the  family.  Bright  lights  laughed  back  at  him  reflecting 
spark  torrents  from  hope's  volcanic  eruption, 


li  The    Little    Review 

A  knot  of  men  appeared  before  him  —  they  were  good  fellows 
....  they  were  all  good  fellows. 

—  Come  on,  .  .  .  eh? 

Bright  glare  from  unshaded  globes  on  bottle  array;  there  is 
winking  amongst  the  glass  people  on  oblivion's  door-step  —  pewter 
beams  from  the  back  row:  table  islands  with  shadowy  rock  men  on 
a  sawdust  sea:  —  thick  noise,  smoke,  and  white  faces  seen  a  long 
way  off. 

—  The  bar-tender's  face  came  very  close,  Elimus  wanted  to 
smack  it! 

—  He  shook  hands  instead. 

• —  "All  right,  old  chap,"  —  another  dnnk  all  round.  —  .... 
Pulsing  life,  buoyant,  glorious:  he  felt  it  was  a  fine  place  and  said 
so  —  he  said  it  was  a  fine  country. 

-  His  mind  revelled,  unharnessed  from  family's  infecting  go-cart, 
kicking  over  the  smug  traces  of  suburban  exemplarity.  Loosed  in 
this  tiny  paddock  he  took  for  life's  prairies,  he  ambled  gingerly 
about,  conceiving  himself  as  buck  jumping  in  a  vast  ring  of  sun 
splashed  freedom. 

A  woman  laughed  behind  him.  He  turned  round  and  took  off 
his  cap  elaborately.  He  offered  her  a  chair  —  he  would  show  them 
how  to  treat  ladies! 

—  She  would  have  port. 

—  Two  ports  .... 

His  mind  sensed  a  new  interest;  he  felt  protective  .... 

She  said  he  was  a  nice  boy. 

She  called  for  a  "green  mint"  —  port  gave  her  heart  burn. 

Elimus  was  very  sorry  ....  had  she  tried  hot  water?  •— 

She  threw  back  her  cloak  and  opened  a  small  reticule;  she  had 
a  tiny  mirror  and  powdered  her  nose:  a  faint  smell  of  patchouli,  and 
a  slight  stirring  beneath  the  convex  folds  of  her  thin  white  blouse. 

Elimus  was  deeply  interested! 

She  smiled  —  he  was  aware  of  her  smiling  before  he  could  raise  I 
his  eyes  —  he  smiled  too:  they  were  great  friends  ...  he  had  onlyj; 
just  arrived:  —  No,  he  hadn't  thought  of  an  hotel  yet,  were  they  [: 
really  all  so  dirty?    Of  course  he  wouldn't  like  that  —  he  was  most 
particular  himself. 

His  mind  groped  for  something  to  say,  he  wanted  to  be  amusing 


The    Little    Review  17 

and  felt  vaguely  dull,  hypnotised  by  the  rhythmical  movement  be- 
neath the  white  blouse. 

He  ordered  a  cigar.    She  ordered  a  "green  mint."  — 

The  bar-tender's  name  was  George  — 

Elimus  remembered  his  box  —  that  troubled  him  —  he  must 
get  his  box:  damn  boxes! 

She  said: 

—  All  right,  kiddie  —  and  stroked  his  hand:  he  liked  that,  she 
was  very  kind. 

He  felt  a  little  sleepy;  she  would  look  after  him  —  she  knew 
of  a  nice  place. 

He  had  to  lean  forward  to  hear  what  she  was  saying  —  that 
was  a  nice  smell  .... 

—  Should  they  go  home? 

Elimus  nodded,  he  got-up,  kicking  a  brass  spittoon  as  he  rose 
and  stood  watching  it  spin  solemnly  ....  it  did  not  spin  any  more. 

She  took  his  arm,  calling  him  "dearie"  —  he  felt  quite  safe  — 
very  happy. 

It  was  cold  outside.  — 

—  They  would  soon  be  home  now. 


The  morning  sun  shone  on  broad  hats,  shadowing  dark  faces, 
diamonding  chins,  catching  the  scurrying  recollections  of  night's 
"moments  de  delices"  to  spill  them  in  its  shade:  —  mind's  morning 
mouth  wash  drowning  smug  toffee  thoughts  of  a  past  evening.  — 
Amazon  rug  beating,  and  private  views  at  intimate  garments 
galleries. 

Elimus  walked  down  the  main  street;  there  was  a  difference; 
he  looked  at  it  much  as  one  revisiting  half  forgotten  scenes  of 
childhood. 

—  How  small  it  appeared  now! 

He  remembered  that  doorway  —  the  cabbage  smell  came  from 
there;  it  had  a  man  in  it  then  —  pipe  smoking:  he  wondered  if 
he  were  inside.  There  was  the  same  tin  in  the  gutter  at  the  comer 
—  he  had  trodden  on  that  —  and  lower  down  the  rusty  hoop  iron 
from  a  tub. 


i8  The    Little    Review 


West  Street  would  be  up  there,  atid  at  the  bottom  the  old 
wharf  and  his  old  ship. 

His  mind  already  clothed  these  with  the  dust  fog  of  gaudy 
chariot  wheeled  progress,  looking  back  on  them  as  past  sign  posts 
of  family-museum  interest  to  a  generation  yet  unborn. 

He  was  accustomed  to  spend  some  time  in  this  museum  of  his: 
the  "objets  d'interets"  with  which  his  rccollective  imagination  would 
crowd  it,  held  for  him  a  subtle  attraction. 

—  The  house  in  which  he  was  born,  his  early  games,  his  nurse; 
the  coloured  cows,  —  age  seven!  —  He  was  very  artistic  .  .  .  . 
it  would  be  of  interest  one  day. 

Himself  as  a  young  man  —  series  of  photographs  in  a  heavily 
bound  Ibum,  or  better,  a  complete  cinema  roll  showing  his  many 
activities. 

He  saw  the  ship  and  the  wharf  now  as  models,  with  an  in- 
scription : 

The  ship  on  which  grandfatb'jr  Elimus  sailed! 

The  wharf  at  which  grandfather  Elimus  landed! 

—  It  seemed  a  long  whHe  ago. 

A  shell-less  animal  collecting  such  protective  covering  as  he 
could  find  from  the  mis-fits  thrown  off  by  forceful  individuality,  he 
would  reflect,  chameleon-like,  a  caricatured  matching  of  environ- 
ments background,  rapidly,  and  without  any  effort. 

He  had  landed  in  the  warmth  of  Uncle  Robert's  bland  suitings, 
and  was  not  quite  sure  what  he  had  on  now.  He  felt  rather  naked, 
and  became  surly  —  antagonistc. 

The  wharf,  piled  with  lumber,  a  forest's  morgue;  echoed  to  the 
clatter  song  of  winches  —  children  on  a  nursery  floor  playing  with 
toy  bricks  —  waving  derrick  arms,  grasping,  swinging,  flinging 
down  first  one  pile  then  another.  Keen  aired  activity's  song  mocked 
the  dull  minors  of  his  foot  steps. 

He  asked  for  his  box  brusquely:  —  it  was  there,  in  the  same 
place,  he  could  take  it. 

—  No  one  smiled. 

Active  antagon'sm  died,  leaving  morose  lava  flow.  He  took  his 
box  and  went  out. 

He  .supposed  he  could  get  lunch  somewhere  — . 

—  He  would  find  an  hotel. 


The    Little    Review  19 

Mr.  Spurge  said  he  could  take  the  evening  train  to  Rocklake; 
he  had  wired  Dugdale. 

Elimus  thanked  him:  he  was  on  probation;  he  would  show 
them!  The  company  gave  him  his  ticket  —  first  class,  that  was  nice; 
he  felt  they  were  discriminative  —  he  liked  that  too. 

He  passed  a  small  printing  office  and  thought  of  having  cards 
printed  with  the  name  of  the  firm  on  the  bottom. 

Mr.  Elimus  Hackett, 
Electric  Light,  'Power  and  Telephone  Company 

He  would  see  about  that. 

The  hotelmanager  had  shares  in  it  and  said  it  was  a  good  thing. 
Elimus  talked;  it  would  seem  that  he  had  been  specially  sent  for! 
Mr.  Spurge  was  an  old  friend  —  a  family  connection,  they  were  go- 
ing to  do  big  things.  — 

The  company  was  all  right,  Elimus  could  tell  him  that. 
Would  he  join  in  a  drink?     The  manager  "didn't  mind"  —  he 
listened.    He  was  not  busy. 

Afterwards  he  thought  of  his  shares  and  went  to  see  Mr.  Spurge. 
Elimus  took  some  sandwiches  and  a  bottle  of  whiskey;  there  would 
be  a  "diner"  on  the  train. 

He  said  that  was  quite  right:  he  didn't  mind  roughing  it! 
There  was  too  much  dining  at  home  —  too  much  luxury  —  he  didn't 
believe  in  that! 

The  Station  —  two  stones  of  coloured  bricks,  a  red  and  yellow 
reflection  of  the  growing  rays  of  townships'  sunrise  —  beamed  on 
its  acolytes.  -*  ^l-^'tllOT 

They  were  proud  of  it.  Elimus  was  proud  of  it!  He  said  it 
was  fine! 

Train's  orchestra,  beating  its  rhythmical  song  into  the  night, 
woke  word  echoes  in  his  lulled  senses:  I'm  going  to  get  on  —  I'm 
going  to  get  on  —  I'm  going  to  get  on;  changing  to  gradients,  I 
said  I  would,  I  said  I  would,  I  said  I  would  —  as  the  flag  stations 
passed.  "■^'^^^■fiJ 

The   conductor  called   Deerleap!      He  changed    there.     The 

cylindrical  heater  in  the  waiting  room  was  cherry  red  a  smell 

of  oil  lamps  and  resin. 


20  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 


—  It  was  cold  outside  ....  How  late  the  loop  train  was.  — 
The  oil  lamps  of  Rocklake's  log  station  smiled  wanly  on  Elimus' , 

pale  face.  ; 

He  felt  very  tired.  \ 

There  was  a  buggy  outside.    The  man  said: 

—  You're  for  Mr.  Dugdale,  you've  to  come  to  the  farm. 
Elimus  said: 

—  Sure. 

The  buggy  driver  looked  at  him  and  sniffed.  Elimus  thought 
him  very  dull:  they  drove  in  silence. 

Log's  firelight  twinkled  on  the  wood  floor  of  the  kitchen  as 
Elimus  went  in;  he  was  glad  of  the  warmth.  A  man  was  standing 
alone  warming  his  back. 

—  Are  you  Mr.  Dugdale?    Elimus  asked. 
—  Yes,  you  Hackett? 

Elimus  said  he  was,  and  that  he  had  just  arrived.  Dugdale 
nodded  to  a  chair.  The  family  had  gone  to  bed  it  was  nearly  ten 
o'clock. 

The  line  was  being  worked  further  north  —  a  few  miles.  — 
This  was  the  base  —  Dugdale  had  his  waggons  here.  Elimus  would 
go  up  in  the  morning,  there  was  a  canvas  shack  for  him. 

Dugdale  gave  him  supper,  and  asked  what  he  knew.  Elimus 
would  go  up  in  the  morning,  there  was  a  canvas  shack  for  him. 

Dugdale  gave  him  supper,  and  asked  what  he  knew.  Elimus 
told  him:  he  offered  him  a  "fag".    Dugdale  didn't  smoke  cigarettes. 

It  was  all  very  strange:  he  thought  of  his  Uncle  and  the  plat- 
form at  Paddington,  they  had  come  to  see  him  off.  Aunt  Agatha 
had  kissed  him!  The  porter  had  smiled.  —  It  was  silly  of  Aunt  Aga- 
tha to  kiss  him,  he  was  a  man  now  ....  Dugdale  was  very  hard  — 
so  was  he  —  he  would  show  them! 

Frost's  bright  fingers  clutched  at  the  hard  earth  —  a  twinkling 
in  still  pine  woods,  and  the  sharp  call  of  fur-people  over  still  air. 

Muffled  men  tramped  with  metallic  feet,  hugging  thoughts  of 
hot  coffee  and  camp  f roust.  From  the  west  heavy  cloud-banks  of 
snow,  grey  blankets  of  premature  dusk,  drifted  up  over  the  iron 
world. 

Men  said  there  would  be  a  "fall." 

Elimus  had  been  out  a  fortnight:  there  had  been  little  progress. 
That  morning  he  had  shifted  his  pitch,  the  cook  had  helped  him. 


The    Little    Review  21 

—  It  was  getting  dark! 

A  cold  wind  swept  over  the  ground  with  a  low  moan  —  burdened 
with  the  knowledge  of  past  aeons  of  time. 

Elimus  looked  up. 

Someone  said  they  had  better  get  back! 

Stray  wind  puffs  snatched  vicious  handfulls  of  snow  from  the 
grey  air  flinging  them  before  their  feet  as  they  moved  towards  the 
camp  —  swan's  down  strewn  over  a  dark  sea.  There  was  wailing 
above  their  heads.     Men  started  to  run  —  Elimus  followed. 

Reaching  his  shack  as  the  storm  broke,  he  f!ung  himself  on  the 
bed  panting:  he  would  tell  Dugdale  about  it  —  they  couldn't  work 
in  this  weather!    Dugdale  should  know  that —  Dugdale  wasn't  fair! 

Elimus  shivered  and  looked  at  the  instrument.  There  had  been 
no  call  for  an  hour. 

Outside,  the  crying  snow  lashed  by  cold  wind  thongs  clung 
to  his  canvas  hut  seeking  shelter. 

—  Raffale-beats  on  the  fabric  sides  drummed  his  dulled  senses. 
He  hoped  nothing  would  tear,  and  thought  of  going  over  to  the  men's 
quarters:  it  would  be  warmer  there  —  they  weren't  all  alone!  .  .  . 

—  Ouf,  it  was  too  bad  to  move  .  .  .  he'd  better  stop  where 
he  was. 

He  put  on  his  great-coat,  standing  over  the  oil  stove  to  collect 
the  heat.    He  wondered  what  Spurge  was  doing? 

He  felt  that  his  brain  was  rather  wasted  out  here  —  he  would 
write  to  Spurge  about  that. 

He  moved  over  to  his  little  table  and  sat  down.  His  coat  was 
too  big:  that  was  a  pity  —  big  coats  cold  coats.  The  tailor  said  big 
coats  hung  well. 

The  oil  stove  came  from  Birmingham. 

—  How  cold  it  was!  ....  Two  tots,  to  keep  out  the  damp.  It 
was  snow  that  made  the  side  bulge  so,  and  the  drips  made  the  stove 
hiss:  it  was  funny  to  watch  that  —  little  steam  puffs,  pis!     Pis! 

To  keep  out  the  damp  —  to  keep  out  the  damp. 
Birmingham  was  in  England:  that  was  a  long  way  off;  —  they 
couldn't  see  him  ....  Tliree  tots  — . 

—  No  one  could  see  him. 

"Cheer  0,  nobody"  ....  it  was  warmer  now. 

The  snow-flakes  piled  on  the  roof  squeezed  one  another  into  the 


22  The    Little    Review 


warmth,  forcing  their  way  through  the  canvas  to  drop  —  drip,  drip, 
in  a  tiddlewink  game  with  the  tins  set  to  catch  them.  They  missed 
the  tins  sometimes:  that  was  annoying. 

If  he  smoked  more  he  would  have  more  tins  for  drips.  —  Damn 
drips! 

His  bed  would  be  wet  too:  then  he  need  not  undress  —  it  was 
nice  not  to  undress  —  it  was  nice  to  be  in  bed.  —  Another  .  .  .  How 
light  the  bottle  was! 

The  line  would  be  down  somewhere:  he  would  have  to  see 
about  that. 
'    Perhaps  Dugdale  would  —  he  was  a  good  chap. 

Tick,  tick:  ticky,  tick.  —  Those  were  drips. 

He  did  not  mind  drips  now,  and  the  bed  was  a  long  way  off. 

He  would  make  up  his  mind  —  that  was  it,  make  up  his  mind! 
—  Uncle  Robert  had  punch  when  it  was  cold:  that  was  a  warm  thing. 

Tick,  tick:  —  how  they  bothered  him. 

—  Ah,  .  .  .  that  was  better! 
It  would  be  better  tomorrow. 

He  was  much  warmer  —  but  the  bed  was  too  far.  He  could  not 
hear  the  wind  now  —  that  was  odd! 

The  bed  was  to  sleep.    It  was  odd  to  sleep:  — 
No  wind  ....  sleep  ....  warm. 
Tick,  tick:   tick,  tick. 

—  Warm  to  sleep — . 

There  was  a  scrabbling  at  the  low  door. and  a  man  came  in 
with  a  gust  of  wet  cold  air. 

—  Hackett!   .  .  .  Hackett! 

—  No  answer. 

Dugdale  had  come  over  to  see  what  was  the  matter;  he  found 
it  strewn  on  the  wet  floor. 

—  Drunk,  he  muttered,  and  went  out. 

Elimus  spent  the  following  week  thinking  things  over:  at  least 
that  was  what  he  believed  himself  to  be  doing.  He  was  in  reality 
grappling  with  the  resusitated  "Thow-shalt-not-isms"  of  early  school 
days,  long  dormant. 

He  remembered  them  as  grey  preventive  beasts  that  he  had 
known  —  even  hobnobbed  with  in  a  cousinly  way.     He  had  left 


< 


T  h  e    Lit  tl  e     Revi  ew  23 

them  behind  he  thought.  They  appeared  now  ubiquitous  tenets, 
grown  up,  vigourous,  swollen  to  Ichthisaurian  dimensions,  over- 
whelming his  pigmy  freedom  ■ —  stunning  him  to  sensibility  by  their 
direct  and  unexpected  appearance. 

He  had  no  sop  for  them,  no  morsel  of  ignorance,  no  fat  and 
juicy  "misunderstanding"  to  proffer  —  "please.  Sir,  I  did  not  know" 
—mocked  back  at  him  from  the  twilight  of  youth's  Zoological  gar- 
den. The  cage  bars  were  down,  he  was  faced  with  these  man-made 
obstructive  monsters,  communities  artificially  fed  pets.  There  was 
then  no  escape  from  them! 

Dugdale  had  given  him  a  talking  to,  everybody  knew  that. 
The  men  all  looked  at  him. 

—  How  silly  they  were!  —  What  silly  faces  they  had!  It  was 
intolerable.  Surely  they  could  understand  a  chap  They  would 
at  home,  there  was  more  freedom  there  — after  all  he  was  a  man. 

He  kept  on  repeating  this,  and  would  stand  with  puckered  brow, 
smoking  innumerable  cigarettes,  outside  his  shack.  Glaring  at  his 
surroundings  tlirough  assumed  mists  of  abstruse  calculations.  He 
tried  this  for  several  days,  but  found  it  unsatisfactory:  no  one 
seemed  impressed  —  no  one  even  asked  what  he  was  thinking 
about. 

The  imagined  freedom  of  home  life  became  an  obsession,  he 
could  think  of  nothing  else. 

This  job  was  no  good  —  there  wasn't  enough  scope  for  him. 

—  He  would  go. 

He  told  Dugdale  this,  and  his  disappointment  in  Dugdale's 
easy  acquiescence  surprised  him. 

It  all  seemed  suddenly  very  flat. 

Quite  what  he  expected  Dugdale  to  say  he  did  not  know,  but 
he  felt  somehow  it  should  have  been  different.     He  said  he  was  off 

—  ne  was  going  to  get  another  job! 

Dugdale  said: 

—  All  right. 

That  was  wrong.  It  would  serve  Dugdale  right  if  he  stayed 
after  that. 

He  was  a  man  anyway:  what  did  it  matter  what  Dugdale  said? 

—  but  —  he  might  have  said  something.     * 

Elimus  left. 

The  journey  back  seemed  very  long.    Of  course  he  was  right 


24  The     Little     Review 

to  go.  He  ^vondered  how  far  they  would  get  the  hne  that  day:  he 
wondered  how  Dugdale  would  get  on!  ....  West  Street  looked  just 
the  same;  he  walked  up  to  number  a  hundred  and  twcntyone  and 
went  in. 

The  boy  was  still  there,  and  seemed  surprised  to  see  him. 

Had  they  heard  anything  from  Dugdale? 

—  No:  Dugdale  didn't  write  often. 
There  was  nothing  for  him? 

—  No. 

Dugdale  had  not  telegraphed  for  him  to  go  back  then.  The 
finality  of  the  step  he  had  taken  suddenly  stood  before  him  in  start- 
ling nakedness.    He  felt  rather  weak. 

—  Hm  .  .  .  could  he  ^ee  Mr.  Spurge? 

—  "Walk  right  in,"  said  the  boy  —  always  in  to  any  of  us.  He 
was  not  one  of  them  any  more  —  how  quickly  it  had  happened. 

Mr.  Spurge  looked  up  hurriedly  from  his  desk. 

—  Hullo!  ....  Anything  wrong? 

—  No,  nothing.  Sir,  —  (the  "Sir"  slipped  out;  a  tribute  to  the 
memory  of  the  wrong  he  felt  he  was  doing  them)  .  .  .  that  is  —  at 
least  .  .  .  I'm  leaving  you  —  I'm  going  to  get  another  job! 

Mr.  Spurge  was  very  surprised.    What  was  the  matter? 

There  was  nothing,  nothing  the  matter  —  it  was  quite  all  right 
really,  only  ....  only. 

The  hopelessness  of  the  whole  thing  surged  up,  choking  him. 

I  was  a  fool  he  said  ...  a  fool!  —  And,  I  got  .  .  .  well  drunk  you 
know:  it  was  —  so  lonely  out  there  ...  I  couldn't  stand  it. 

He  was  sniveling,  he  felt  it,  and  made  an  effort. 

—  Anyway  I'd  better  go  ....  I'm  all  right  really,  only  I'd 
better  go. 

Spurge  looked  at  him  kindly  through  his  mild  pince-nez  eyes. 

—  I'll  get  another  job  .  .  .  I'm  all  right,  but  I  wanted  to  tell 
you  ....  you  took  me  on  you  see,  and  I  —  I  wanted  to  ...  to 
thank  you. 

What  was  he  saying!  —  this  was  all  wrong,  he  had  not  meant 
to  talk  like  that!    Oh,  Lord  —  what  was  he  saying? 

—  He  didn't  know  —  anyway,  what  did  "it  matter.  —  He  was 
very  miserable. 

Spurge  was  talking  now.  Young  men  must. pull  themselves  to- 
gether —  find  their  feet. 


The    Little    Review  25 

—  Yes,  yes,  that  was  all  right  ....  why  wouldn't  he  let  him 
go?     He  wanted  to  go — . 

Uncle  Robert?  —  of  course  Uncle  Robert  expected  a  lot  from 
him — .  No,  he  didn't  want  to  disappoint  anyone.  —  What  was 
that? 

There  was  a  vacancy  in  the  office,  a  sudden  vacancy!  Spurge 
wanted  to  fill  it. 

—  Elimus  could  take  it  if  he  liked  —  he  would  give  him 
another  chance! 

Pride's  thin  voice,  muffled  in  fears  of  the  cold  world  outside 
choked  and  was  silent. 

—  He  might  not  find  another  job. 

Another  chance!  .  .  .  warm  tears  started  to  his  eyes:  take  it 
-^  yes,  he  would  take  it,  he  would  show  them  this  time;  there 
would  be  no  more  ...  no  more 

—  Nonsense;  Spurge  broke  in.  3ee — Hackett?  I  won't  have 
any  more  nonsense:  punctuality,  tidiness — office  sharp  at  eight 
o'clock,  eh? 

—  Yes,  Sir.  —  He  quite  understood  that  —  he  would  be  punc- 
tual; sharp  at  eight  —  Uncle  Robert  always  said  he  was  a  punctual 
.  .  Well,  good-day. 

Hackett!     To-morrow  morning,  mind. 

—  No  don't  thank  me  — . 

Elimus  went  out  into  the  street  again,  he  thought  of  the  even- 
ing a  few  v/eeks,  or  was  it  months  before?  When  he  first  left  the 
office,  rioting  on  his  initial  success. 

Well  he  was  still  in  the  company  anyway:  that  was  good. 

It  was  nice  to  be  back  in  the  town  again  ,it  had  been  very  lonely 
out  there. 

—  Ha,  here  was  the  printing  shop  —  he  would  go  in  and  order 
his  cards. 


The  church  clock  at  the  corner  of  West  Street  struck  eight.  It 
was  a  bright  sunny  morning,  frosty,  keen. 

Spurge  got  up  from  his  desk  and  went  into  the  office,  the 
boy  was  there  —  no  one  else. 

—  He  went  back  and  sat  down. 


26  2'he     Little     Review 


Half  past  eight. 

Long  syren  blasts  from  a  tug  at  the  wharf  fussing  noisily  at  its 
morning  tojl. 

Elimus  opened  his  eyes  sleepily,  vaguely  aware  of  his  sur- 
roundings.   The  bed  —  those  curtains. 

—  Yes,  of  course  .  .  .  this  was  where  he  had  come  that  first 
night. 

He  was  aware  of  her  warm  body  close  beside  him:  there  was  a 

tinkle  of  crockery  outside  the  door. 

A  slut  brought  in  two  cups  of  "warm  coffee  and  went  out.  — 
He  felt  soft,  damp  hands  about  him,  and  turned  over  on  his 

pillow,  yielding  lazily. 

—  She  whispered  ....  Elimus  didn't  mind. 


U  N ANIMISM 
Ezra    Pound 

THE  space  in  the  February  number  permitted  me  to  give  scant 
attention  to  any  one  author.  Mr.  F.  S.  Flint  in  August  1912 
gave  I  think  the  first  notice  of  Jules  Romains  in  English,  my  ar- 
ticles in  the  New  Age  appeared  the  year  after  .  It  is  not  my  fault 
that  only  a  brief  notice  of  Romains  appeared  about  that  time  in 
America.  Certain  fusty  old  crocks  have  pretended  to  look  after 
American  "culture"',  they  have  run  fat,  dull,  and  profitable  periodi- 
cals for  their  own  emolument,  or  emollition.  and  for  the  card-board- 
izing  of  the  American  mind.  One  should  express  one's  contempt  for 
these  people,  and  for  the  Concord  school,  in  fact  for  the  gensde- 
lettres  of  our  country  from  Emerson  to  Mabie,  with  a  certain  regu- 
larity, with  a  certain  unemphatic  passivity.  They  have  existed, 
nothing  will  alter  that  fact.  It  is  deplorable  ,but  we  can  do  noth- 
ing about  it.  We  can  bury  their  remains  with  as  much  celerity  as  is 
convenient,  but  it  is  useless  to  expend  fury  or  emotion  in  the 
process. 

As  some  of  them  still  exist  in  the  flesh,  and  as  they  still  maintain 


The    Little    Review  27 

contact  with  numerous  "presses",  I  may  say  frankly  that  their 
actual  physical  demise  would  give  me  no  pain,  but  on  the  contrary. 

As  long  as  they  exist  in  the  flesh  they  will  go  on  deadening  and 
blanketing  America's  perception  of  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  of  the 
rest  of  the  world's  art  and  letters. 

Here  lies  the  pasteboard  tradition.  It  is  still  unburied,  its  odour 
mounts  stalely  toward  Boston,  from  Boston,  through  Boston.  These 
suave  old  gentlemen,  and  these  vulgar  middle-aged  automatons 
have  given  us  a  long  example  of  intellectual  cowardice;  all  their 
lives  they  have  striven  to  prevent  the  impact  of  any  real  value,  of 
any  equation  of  life,  from  reaching  the  minds  of  their  readers.  The 
permission  of  circumstance  is  their  first  consideration,  never  the 
question  of  value. 

It  was  truly  a  great  day  for  American  letters  when  the  saintly 
and  gentle  and  in  every  way  model  Gilder  turned  Stevenson  out  of 
his  office.  It  was  the  symbolical  act  of  his  generation.  The  clarion 
names  of  Hamilton  Mabie,  Underwood  Johnson,  etc.,  etc.,  will,  with 
plenteous  synonyms,  arise  in  the  mind  of  the  reader. 

And  these  known  names  are  but  the  peaks  of  the  rubbish  heaps; 
beneath  them  repose  the  10,000  stuffed  effigies,  the  10,000  manne- 
kins  who  wanted  to  be  Gilders,  Mabies  and  U.  Johnsons.  I  am  not 
a ' bloodthirsty  man;  I  do  not  desire  their  extermination  by  any 
violent  means,  but  I  long  for  beneficent  deities,  for  Gods  of  vivid  di- 
vinity who  would  change  them  by  an  ironic  magic  into  permanent 
figures  of  cardboard,  who  would  actualize  this  new  touch  of  Midas. 
Paper  currency  would  be  correct  for  our  age,  or  even  those  little 
figures,  eagles  and  slippers  which  they  make  out  of  pulped  old  dollar 
bills. 

The  English  translation  of  Romains'  "Mort  de  Quelqu'un"  has, 
more  recently,  provoked  various  English  and  American  essays  and 
revievfffe.  His  published  works  are  "L'Ame  des  Hommes,"  1904; 
"Le  Bourg  Regenere,"  1906;  "La  Vie  Unanime",  1908;  "Premier 
Livre  de  Prieres,"  1909;  "La  Foule  qui  est  Ici",  1909;  in  1910  and 
191 1  "Un  Etre  en  Marche",  "Deux  Poemes",  "Manuel  de  Deifica- 
tion", "L'armee  dans  la  Ville",  "Puissances  de  Paris",  and  "Mort 
de  Quelqu'un,"  employing  the  three  excellent  publishing  houses  of 
the  Mercure,  Figuiere  and  Bansot. 

His  "Reflexions"  at  the  end  of  "Puissances  de  Paris"  are  so 
good  a  formulation  of  the  Unanimiste  Aesthetic,  or  "Pat/ietiqite", 


The     Little     Review 


that  one  will  do  more  to  disabuse  readers  misled  by  stupid  English 
criticism  than  would  any  amount  of  talk  about  Remains.  I  let 
him  speak  for  himself. 


Reflexions 

"Many  people  are  now  ready  to  recognize  that  there  are  in  the 
world  beings  more  real  than  man.  We  admit  the  life  of  entities 
greater  than  our  own  bodies.  Society  is  not  merely  an  arithmetical 
total,  or  a  collective  designation.  We  even  credit  the  exis- 
tence of  groups  intermediate  between  the  individual  and  the  state. 
But  these  opinions  are  put  forth  by  abstract  deduction  or  by  experi- 
mentation of  reason. 

People  employ  them  to  complete  a  system  of  things  and 
with  the  complacencies  of  analogy.  If  they  do  not  follow  a  serious 
study  of  social  data,  they  are  at  least  the  most  meritorious  results 
of  observations;  they  justify  the  method,  and  uphold  the  laws  of  a 
science  which  struggles  manfully  to  be  scientific. 

These  fashions  of  knowing  would  seem  both  costly  and  tenuous. 
Man  did  not  wait  for  physiology  to  give  him  a  notion  of  his  body, 
in  which  lack  of  patience  he  was  intelligent,  for  physiology  has  given 
him  but  analytic  and  exterior  information  concernng  things  he  had 
long  known  from  within.  He  had  been  conscious  of  his  organs 
long  before  he  had  specified  their  modes  of  activity.  As  spirals  of 
smoke  from  village  chimneys,  the  profound  senses  of  each  organ  had 
mounted  toward  him;  joy,  sorrow,  all  the  emotions  are  deeds  more 
fully  of  consciousness  than  are  the  thoughts  of  man's  reason.  Rea- 
son makes  a  concept  of  man,  but  the  heart  perceives  the  fles^of  his 
body. 

In  like  manner  we  must  know  the  groups  that  englobe  us.  not 
by  observation  from  without,  but  by  an  organic  consciousness.  And 
it  is  by  no  means  sure  that  the  rhythms  will  make  their  nodes  in  us, 
if  we  be  not  the  centres  of  groups.  We  have  but  to  become  such. 
Dig  deep  enough  in  our  being,  emptying  it  of  Individual  reveries,  dig 
enough  little  canals  so  that  the  souls  of  the  groups  will  flow  of 
necessitv  into  us. 


The    Little    Review  29 

I  have  attempted  nothing  else  in  this  book.  Various 
groups  have  come  here  into  consciousness.  They  are  still 
rudimentary,  and  their  spirit  is  but  a  perfume  in  the  air.  Beings 
with  as  little  consistence  as  la  Rue  du  Havre,  and  la  Place  de  la 
Bastile,  ephemeral  as  the  company  of  people  in  an  omnibus,  or  the 
audience  at  TOpera  Comique,  can  not  have  complex  organism  or 
thoughts  greatly  elaborate.  People  will  think  it  superfluous  that 
I  should  unravel  such  shreds  in  place  of  recarding  once  more  the 
enormous  heap  of  the  individual  soul. 

Yet  I  think  the  groups  are  in  the  most  agitated  stage  of  their 
evolution.  Future  groups  will  perhaps  deserve  less  affection,  and 
we  shall  conceal  the  basis  of  things  more  effectively.  Now  the  in- 
complete and  unstable  contours  have  not  yet  learned  to  stifle  any 
tendency  (any  inclination).  Every  impact  sets  them  floating.  They 
do  not  coat  the  infantile  matter  with  an  hard  or  impacting  envelope. 
A  superior  plant  has  realized  but  few  of  the  possibilites  swarming  in 
fructificatory  mould.  A  mushroom  leads  one  more  directly  to  the 
essential  life  quality  than  do  the  complexities  of  the  oaktree. 

Thus  the  groups  prepare  more  future  than  is  strictly  required. 
Thus  we  have  the  considerable  happiness  of  watching  the  commence- 
ment of  reign,  the  beginning  of  an  organic  series  which  will  last  as 
did  others,  for  a  thousand  ages,  before  the  cooling  of  the  earth.  This 
is  not  a  progression,  it  is  a  creation,  the  first  leap-out  of  a  different 
series.  Groups  will  not  continue  the  activities  of  animals,  nor  of 
men;  they  will  start  things  afresh  according  to  their  own  need,  and 
as  the  consciousness  of  their  substance  increases  they  will  refashion 
the  image  of  the  world. 

The  men  who  henceforth  can  draw  the  souls  of  groups  to  con- 
verge within  themselves,  will  give  forth  the  coming  dream,  and  will 
gather,  to  boot,  certain  intuitions  of  human  habit.  Our  ideas  of  the 
being  will  undergo  a  correction;  will  hesitate  rather  more  in  finding 
a  distinction  between  the  ex'stent  and  non-existent.  In  passing  suc- 
cessively from  the  Place  de  I'Europe  to  the  Place  des  Voges,  and  then 
to  a  gang  of  navvies  one  perceives  that  there  are  numerous  shades  of 
difference  between  nothing  and  something.  Before  resorting  to  groups 
one  is  sure  of  discerning  a  being  of  a  simple  idea.  One  knows  that  a 
dog  exists,  that  he  has  an  interior  and  independent  unity;  one  knows 


30  T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Review  ' 

that  a  table  or  a  mountaia.  does  not  exist;  nothing  but  our  manner 
of  speech  cuts  it  off  from  the  universal  non-existing.  But  streets 
demand  all  shades  of  verbal  expression  (from  the  non-existing) 
up  to  the  autonomous  creature. 

One  ceases  to  believe  that  a  definite  limit  is  the  indispensible 
means  of  existence.  Where  does  La  Place  de  la  Trinite  begin?  The 
streets  mingle  their  bodies.  The  squares  isolate  themselves  with 
great  difficulty.  The  crowd  at  the  theatre  takes  on  no  contour  until 
it  has  lived  for  some  time,  and  with  vigour.  A  being  {etre)  has  a 
centre,  or  centres  in  harmony,  but  a  being  is  not  compelled  to  have 
limits.  He  exists  a  great  deal  in  one  place,  rather  less  in  others,  and 
further  on  a  second  being  commences  before  the  first  has  left  off. 
Every  being  has,  somewhere  in  space,  its  mafximum.  Only  ances- 
tered  individuals  possess  affirmative  contours,  a  skin  which  cuts 
them  off  from  the  infinite. 

Space  is  no  one's  possession.  No  being  has  succeeded  in  appro- 
priating one  scrap  of  space  and  saturating  it  with  his  own  unique 
existence.  Everything  over-crosses,  coincides,  and  cohabits.  Every 
point  is  a  perch  for  a  thousand  birds.  Paris,  the  rue  Montmartre,  a 
crowd,  a  man,  a  protoplasm  are  on  the  same  spot  of  pavement.  A 
thousand  existences  are  concentric.    We  see  a  little  of  some  of  them. 

How  can  we  go  on  thinking  that  an  individual  is  a  solitary  thing 
which  is  born,  grows,  reproduces  itself  and  dies?  This  is  a  superior 
and  inveterate  manner  of  being  an  individual.  But  groups  are 
not  truly  born.  Their  life  makes  and  unmakes  itself  like  an  unstable 
state  of  matter,  a  condensation  which  does  not  endure.  They  show 
us  that  life,  at  its  origin,  is  a  provisory  attitude,  a  moment  of  ex- 
ception, an  intensity  between  two  relaxations,  not  continuity,  noth- 
ing decisive.  The  first  entireties  take  life  by  a  sort  of  slow  success, 
and  extinguish  themselves  without  catastrophe,  the  single  elements 
do  not  perish  because  the  whole  is  disrupted. 

The  crowd  before  the  Baraque  Foraine  starts  to  live  little 
by  little,  as  water  in  a  kettle  begins  to  sing  and  evaporate.  The 
passages  of  the  Odeon  do  not  live  by  night,  each  day  they  are  real, 
a  few  hours.  At  the  start  life  seems  the  affair  of  a  moment,  then  it 
becomes  intermittent.  To  be  durable;  to  become  a  development  and 
a  destiny ;  to  be  defined  and  finished  off  at  each  end  by  birth  and 
death,  it  needs  a  deal  of  accustomedness. 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  31 

The  primitive  forms  are  not  coequal.  There  is  a  natural  hierar- 
chy among  groups.  Streets  have  no  set  middle,  no  veritable  limita- 
tions; they  hold  a  long  vacillating  sort  of  life  which  night  flattens 
out  almost  to  nothingness.  Cross-roads  and  squares  take  on  con- 
tour, and  gather  up  the  nodes  of  their  rhythms.  Other  groups  have 
a  fashioned  body,  they  endure  but  a  little  space,  but  they  have 
learned,  almost,  to  die;  they  even  resurrect  themselves  as  by  a  jerk 
or  dry  spasm,  they  begin  the  habit  of  being,  they  strive  toward  it, 
and  this  puts  them  out  of  breath. 

I  have  not  yet  met  a  group  fully  divine.  None  has  had  a  real 
consciousness,  none  has  addressed  me,  saying:  "I  exist."  The  day 
when  the  first  group  shall  take  its  soul  in  its  hands,  as  one  lifts  up  a 
child  in  order  to  look  in  its  face,  that  day  there  will  be  a  new  god 
upon  earth.  This  is  the  god  I  await,  with  my  labour  of  annuncia- 
tion." 

NOTE 

It  is  of  course  v/holly  ridiculous  that  I  should  leave  off  my  work 
to  make  translations.  There  are  three  hundred  younger  and  less 
occupied  writers,  each  one  searching  for  subject  matter,  or  at  least 
void  of  any  specialite.  They  are  all  of  them  clamouring  to  be 
printed,  but  none  of  them,  apparently,  has  the  patience  or  intelli- 
gence to  take  up  this  simple  labour  of  importation,  or  to  select 
things  of  interest  from  foreign  literature,  or  to  combat  the  diluted 
dilutions  of  wrong  impressions  that  "float"  to  us  of  it. 

Indeed  the  American  '"concours"  to  us,  The  Little  Review,  has 
been  for  the  past  year  almost  negligible.  A  few  people,  the  very 
few  in  America  who  know  that  the  Mercure  de  France  has  been  for 
some  years  in  existence,  are  willing  to  grant,  for  argument,  that  there 
ought  to  be  something  of  the  sort  in  English  or  American. 

The  only  notable  effect  that  I  can  see  is  that  one  millionaire  has  set 
himself  up  to  be  a  "garden  and  a  sanctuary"  and  hopes  to  preserve 
the  cardboard  tradition  of  the  older  magazines  in  a  "contemporary" 
publication.  He  has  translated  Sam  McClure's  memorable  phrase 
about  the  barber's  wife  in  the  middle  west  into  something  more 
tame  and  Galsworthian,  something  uplifting  and  communal,  etc. 
Passons ! 

Passons.  My  brief  excerpt  from  Remains .  gives  the  tone  of 
his  thought.    In  so  far  as  he  writes  in  the  present  tense  he  carries 


32  The    Little    Review 


conviction.  He  broaches  truly  a  "new",  or  at  least  contemporary 
"patlict'ique".  He  utters  in  original  vein  phases  of  consciousness 
whereinto  we  are  more  or  less  drifting,  in  measure  of  our  proper 
sensibility. 

Quant  a  moi?    Caveat! 

Beware  of  agglomerates. 

E.P. 


ULYSSES 

\ 


James   Joyce 
Episode     II 


Y 


'OU,  Cochrane,  what  city  sent  for  him? 
Tarenfum,  sir. 

—  Very  good  .    Well  ? 

—  There  was  a  battle,  sir. 

—  Very  good.    WTiere? 

The  boy's  blank  face  asked  the  blank  window. 

Fabled  by  the  daughters  of  memory.  And  yet  it  was  in  some 
way  if  not  as  memory  fabled  it.  A  phrase,  then,  of  impatience,  thud 
of  Blalce's  wings  of  excess.  I  hear  the  ruin  of  all  space,  shattered 
glass  and  toppling  masonry,  and  time  one  livid  final  flame.  What's 
left  us  then? 

—  I  forget  the  place,  sir.     279  B.  C. 

—  Asculum,  Stephen  said,  glancing  at  the  name  and  year  in 
the  gorescarred  book. 

—  Yes,  sir.  And  he  said:  Another  victory  like  that  and  we  arc 
done  for. 

That  phrase  the  world  had  remembered.  A  dull  ease  of  the 
mind.  From  a  hill  above  a  corpsestrewn  plain  a  general,  speaking  to 
his  officers,  leaned  upon  his  spear.  Any  general  to  any  officers. 
They  lend  ear. 

—  You,  Armstrong,  Stephen  said.  What  was  the  end  of  Pyrr- 
hus? 

—  End  of  Pyrrhus,  sir? 


The    Little    Review        -  33 


—  I  know,  sir.    Ask  me,  sir,  Comyn  said. 

—  Wait.  You,  Armstrong.  Do  you  know  anything  about 
Pyrrhus? 

A  bag  of  figrolls  lay  snugly  in  Armstrong's  satchel.  He  curled 
them  between  his  palms  at  whiles  and  swallowed  them  softly.  Crumbs 
adhered  to  the  tissues  of  his  lips.  A  sweetened  boy's  breath.  Well 
off  people,  proud  that  their  eldest  son  was  in  the  navy.  Vico  Road, 
Dalkey. 

—  Pyrrhus,  sir?    Pyrrhus,  a  pier. 

All  laughed.  Mirthless  high  malicious  laughter.  Armstrong 
looked  round  at  his  classmates,  silly  glee  in  profile.  In  a  moment 
they  will  laugh  more  loudly,  aware  of  my  lack  of  rule  and  of  the  fees 
their  papas  pay. 

—  Tell  me  now,  Stephen  said,  poking  the  boy's  shoulder  with 
the  book,  what  is  a  pier. 

—  A  pier,  sir,  Armstrong  said.  A  thing  out  in  the  water.  A 
kind  of  bridge.    Kingstown  pier,  sir. 

Some  laughed  again:  mirthless  but  with  meaning.  Two  in  the 
back  bench  whispered.  Yes,  They  knew:  had  never  learned  nor 
ever  been  innocent.  All.  With  envy  he  watched  their  faces:  Edith, 
Ethel,  Gertie,  Lily.  Their  likes:  their  breats.  too,  sweetened  with 
tea  and  jam,  their  bracelets  tittering  in  the  struggle. 

—  Kingstown  pier,  Stephen  said.    Yes,  a  disappointed  bridge. 
The  words  troubled  their  gaze. 

—  How,  sir?    Comyn  asked.    A  bridge  is  across  a  river. 

For  Haines's  chapbook.  No  one  here  to  hear.  Tonight  deftly 
amid  wild  drink  and  tailk,  to  pierce  the  polished  mail  of  his  mind. 
What  then?  A  jester  at  the  court  of  his  master,  indulged  and  dises- 
teemed,  winning  a  clement  master's  praise.  Why  had  they  chosen 
all  that  part?  Not  wholly  for  the  smooth  caress.  For  them  too  his- 
tory was  a  tale  like  any  other  too  often  heard,  their  land  a  pawnshop. 

Had  Pyrrhus  not  fallen  by  a  beldam's  hand  in  Argos  or  Julius 
Caesar  not  been  knifed  to  death.  They  are  not  to  be  thought  away. 
Time  has  branded  them  and  fettered  they  are  lodged  in  the  room 
of  the  infinite  possibilities  they  have  ousted.  But  can  those  have 
been  possible  seeing  that  they  never  were?  Or  was  that  only  possible 
which  came  to  pass?    Weave,  weaver  of  the  wind. 

—  Tell  us  a  story,  sir. 


34  The    Lit  tie     Review 


—  Oh,  do,  sir.     A  ghoststory. 

—  Where  do  you  begin  in  this?  Stephen  asked,  of>ening  an- 
other book. 

—  Weep  no  more,  Comyn  said. 

—  Go  on  then,  Talbot. 

—  And  the  story,  sir? 

—  After,  Stephen  said.     Go  on.  Talbot. 

A  swarthy  boy  opened  a  book  and  propped  it  nimbly  under  the 
breastwork  of  his  satchel.  He  recited  jerks  of  verse  with  odd  glances 
at  the  text. 

Weep  no  more,  wojul  shepherd,  weep  no  more 

For  Lycidas,  your  sorrow,  is  not  dead. 

Sunk  though  he  be  beneath  the  ivatery  floor. 

It  must  be  a  movement  then,  an  actuality  of  the  possible  as  pos- 
sible. Aristotle's  phrase  formed  itself  within  the  gabbled  verses  and 
floated  out  into  the  studious  silence  of  the  library  of  Saint  Genevieve 
where  he  had  read,  sheltered  from  the  sin  of  Paris,  night  by  night. 
By  his  elbow  a  delicate  Siamese  conned  a  handbook  of  strategy.  Fed 
and  feeding  brains  about  me:  and  in  my  mind's  darkness  a  sloth  of 
the  underworld,  reluctant,  shy  of  brightness,  shifting  her  dragon  scaly 
folds.  Thought  is  the  thought  of  thought.  Tranquil  brightness. 
The  soul  is  in  a  manner  all  that  is:  the  soul  is  the  form  of  forms. 
Tranquility  sudden,  vast,  candescent:  form  of  forms. 

Talbot  repeated: 

Through  the  dear  might  of  Him  that  walked  the  waves 
I  Through  the  dear  might. 

—  Turn  over,  Stephen  said  quietly.  I  don't  see  anything. 

—  What,  sir?    Talbot  asked  simply,  bending  forward. 

His  hand  turned  the  page  over.  He  leaned  back  and  went  on 
again,  having  just  remembered  of  Him  that  walked  the  waves.  Here 
also  over  these  craven  hearts  his  shadow  lies,  and  on  the  scoffer's 
heart  and  lips  and  on  mine.  It  lies  upon  their  eager  faces  who  offered 
him  a  coin  of  the  tribute.  To  Caesar  what  is  Caesar's,  to  God  what 
is  God's.    A  long  look  from  dark  eyes,  a  riddling  sentence  to  be 


T  he   Li  t  tl  e    Review  35 

woven  and  woven  on  the  church's  looms.    Ay. 

—  Riddle  me,  riddle  me,  randy  ro. 
My  father  gave  me  seeds  to  sow. 

Talbot  slid  his  closed  book  into  his  satchel. 

—  Have  I  heard  all?    Stephen  asked. 
— Yes,  sir.    Hockey  at  ten,  sir. 

—  Half  day,  sir.    Thursday. 

—  Who  can  answer  a  riddle?    Stephen  asked. 

They  bundled  their  books  away,  pencils  clacking,  pages  rustling. 
Crowding  together  they  strapped  and  buckled  their  satchels,  all  gab- 
bling gaily: 

—  A  riddle.    Ask  me,  sir. 

—  O,  ask  me,  sir. 

—  A  hard  one,  sir. 

—  This  is  the  riddle,  Stephen  said: 

The  cock  crew. 
The  sky  was  blue: 
,    The  bells  in  heaven 
Were  striking  eleven. 
'Tis  time  for  this  poor  soul 
To  go  to  heaven. 

—  What  is  that? 

—  What,  sir 

—  Again,  sir.    We  didn't  hear. 

Their  eyes  grew  bigger  as  the  lines  were  repeated. 
After  a  silence  Cochrane  said: 

—  What  is  it,  sir?    We  give  it  up. 
Stephen,  his  throat  itching,  answered: 

—  The  fox  burying  his  grandmother  under  a  hollybush. 

He  stood  up  and  gave  a  shout  of  nervous  laughter  to  which  their 
cries  echoed  dismay. 

A  stick  struck  the  door  and  a  voice  in  the  corridor  called: 

—  Hockey. 


36  The    Little    Review 

They  broke  asunder,  sidling  uut  of  their  benches,  leaping  them. 
Quickly  they  were  gone  and  from  the  lumber  room  came  the  rattle 
of  sticlvs  and  clamour  of  their  boots  and  tongues. 

Sargent  who  alone  had  lingered  came  forward  slowly,  showing  an 
open  soi)ybook.  His  thick  hair  and  scraggy  neck  gave  witness  of 
unreadiness  and  through  his  misty  glasses  weak  eyes  looked  up  plead- 
ing. On  his  cheek,  dull  and  bloodless,  a  soft  stain  of  ink  lay,  date- 
shaped,  recent  and  damp  as  a  snail's  bed. 

He  held  out  his  copybook.  The  word  Sums  was  written  on  the 
headline.  Beneatli  were  sloping  figures  and  at  the  foot  a  crooked 
signature  with  blind  loops  and  a  blot  Cyril  Sargent:  his  name  and 
seal. 

—  Mr.  Deasy  told  me  to  write  them  out  all  again,  he  said,  and 
show  them  to  you,  sir. 

Stephen  touched  the  edges  of  the  book.     Futility. 

—  Do  you  understand  how  to  do  them  now?    he  asked. 

—  Numbers  eleven  to"  fifteen,  Sargent  answered.  Mr.  Deasy 
said  I  was  to  copy  them  off  the  board,  sir. 

—  Can  you  do  them  yourself?     Stephen  asked. 

—  No,  sir. 

Ugly  and  futile:  lean  neck  and  thick  hair  and  a  stain  of  ink,  a 
snail's  bed.  Yet  someone  had  loved  him,  borne  him  in  her  arms  and 
in  her  heart.  But  for  her  the  race  of  the  world  would  have  trampled 
him  under  foot,  a  squashed  boneless  snail.  She  had  loved  his  weak 
watery  blood  drained  from  her  own.  Was  that  then  real?  The  only 
true  thing  in  life?  She  was  no  more:  the  trembling  skeleton  of  a 
twig  burnt  in  the  fire,  an  odour  of  rosewood  and  wetted  ashes.  She 
had  saved  him  from  being  trampled  under  foot  and  had  gone,  scarce- 
ly having  been.  A  poor  soul  gone  to  heaven:  and  on  a  heath  beneath 
winking  stars  a  fox,  red  reek  of  rapine  in  his  fur,  with  merciless 
bright  eyes  scraped  in  the  earth,  listened,  scraped  up  the  earth,  lis- 
tened, scraped  and  scraped. 

Sitting  at  his  side  Stephen  solved  out  the  problem.  He  proves 
by  algebra  that  Shakespeare's  ghost  is  Hamlet's  grandfather.  Sar- 
gent peered  askance,  through  his  slanted  glasses.  Hockeysticks  rat- 
tled in  the  lumberroom:  the  hollow  knock  of  a  ball  and  calls  from 
the  field. 

Across  the  page  the  symbols  moved  in  grave  morrice,  in  tlie 
mummery  of  their  letters,  wearing  quaint  caps  of  squares  and  cubes. 


The    Little    Review  37 

Give  hands,  traverse,  bow  to  partner:  so:  imps  of  fancy  of  the  Moors. 
Gone  too  from  the  world,  Averroes  and  Moses  Maimonides,  dark  men 
in  mien  and  movement,  flashing  in  their  mocking  mirrors  the  obscure 
soul  of  the  world,  a  darkness  shining  in  brightness  which  brightness 
could  not  comprehend. 

—  Do  you  understand  now?  Can  you  work  the  second  for 
yourself? 

—  Yes  sir  . 

In  long  shaky  strokes  Sargent  copied  the  data.  Waiting  always 
for  a  word  of  help  his  hand  moved  faithfully  the  unsteady  symbols,  a 
faint  hue  of  shame  flickering  behind  his  dull  skin.  Amor  matris: 
subjective  and  objective  genitive.  With  her  weak  blood  and  wheysour 
milk  she  fed  him  and  hid  from  sight  of  others  his  swaddlingbands. 

Like  him  was  I,  these  sloping  shoulders,  this  gracelessness.  My 
childhood  bends  beside  me.  Too  far  for  me  to  lay  a  hand  of  comfort 
there,  one  or  lightly.  Mine  is  far  and  his  secret  as  our  eyes.  Secrets, 
silent,  stony,  sit  in  the  dark  palaces  of  both  our  hearts;  secrets  weary 
of  their  tyranny:  tyrants  willing  to  be  dethroned. 

The  sum  was  done. 

—  It  is  very  simple,  Stephen  said  as  he  stood  up. 

—  Yes,  sir.    Thanks,  Sargent  answered. 

He  dried  the  page  with  a  sheet  of  thin  blotting  paper  and  car- 
ried I'is  copybook  back  to  his  desk 

—  You  had  better  get  your  stick  and  go  out  to  the  others, 
Stephen  said  as  he  followed  towards  the  door  the  boy's  graceless 
form. 

—  Yes,  sir. 

In  the  corridor  his  name  was  heard,  called  from  the  playfield. 

—  Sargent . 

—  Run  on,  Stephen  said.    Mr.  Deasy  is  calling  you. 

He  stood  in  the  porch,  and  watched  the  laggard  hurry  towards 
the  scrappy  field  where  sharp  voices  were  in  strife.  They  were  sorted 
in  teams  and  Mr.  Deasy  came  stepping  over  wisps  of  grass  with  gai- 
tered  feet.  When  he  had  reached  the  schoolhouse  voices  again  con- 
tending called  to  him.    He  turned  his  angry  white  moustache. 

—  What  is  it  now?    he  cried  continually  without  listening. 

—  Cochrane  and  Halliday  are  on  the  same  side,  sir,  Stephen 
cried. 

—  Will  you  wait  in  my  study  for  a  moment,  Mr.  Deasy  said, 


38  The    Little    Review 

till  I  restore  order  here. 

And  as  he  stepped  fussily  back  across  the  field  his  old  man's 
voice  cried  sternly. 

—  What  is  the  matter?    What  is  it  now? 

Their  sharp  voices  cried  about  him  on  all  sides:  their  many 
forms  closed  round  him,  garish  sunshine  bleaching  the  honey  of  his 
illdyed  head. 

Stale  smoky  air  hung  in  the  study  with  the  smell  of  drab 
abraded  leather  of  its  chairs.  As  on  the  first  day  he  bargained  with 
me  here.  As  it  was  in  the  beginning,  is  now.  On  the  sideboard  the 
tray  of  Stuart  coins,  base  treasure  of  a  bog:  and  ever  shall  be.  And 
snug  in  tehir  spooncase  of  purple  plush,  faded,  the  twelve  apostles 
having  preached  to  all  the  gentiles:  world  without  end. 

A  hasty  step  over  the  stone  porch  and  in  the  corridor.  Blowing 
out  his  rare  moustache  Mr.  Deasy  halted  at  the  table. 

—  First,  our  little  financial  settlement,  he  said. 

He  brought  out  of  his  coat  a  pocketbook  bound  by  a  rubber 
thong.  It  slapped  open  and  he  took  from  it  two  notes,  one  of  joined 
halves,  and  laid  them  carefully  on  the  table  . 

—  Two,  he  said,  strapping  and  stowing  his  pocketbook  away. 
And  now  his  strongroom  for  the  gold.     Stephen's  embarassed 

hand  moved  over  the  shells  heaped  in  the  cold  stone  mortar:  whelks 
and  money  cowries  and  leopard  shells:  and  this,  whorled  as  an  emir's 
turban,  and  this,  the  scallop  of  Saint  James.  An  old  pilgrim's  hoard, 
dead  treasure,  hollow  shells. 

A  sovereign  fell,  bright  and  new,  on  the  soft  pile  of  the  table- 
cloth. 

—  Three,  Mr.  Deasy  said,  turning  his  little  savings  box  about  in 
his  hand.  These  are  handy  things  to  have.  See.  This  is  for  sover- 
eigns. This  is  for  shillings,  sixpences,  halfcrowns.  And  here  crowns. 
See. 

He  shot  from  it  two  crowns  and  two  shillings. 

—  Three  twelve,  he  said.    I  think  you'll  find  that's  right. 

—  Thank  you,  sir,  Stephen  said,  gathering  the  money  together 
with  shy  haste  and  putting  it  all  in  a  pocket  of  his  trousers. 

His  hand,  free  again,  went  back  to  the  hollow  shells. 
Symbols  too  of  beauty  and  of  power.     A  lump  in  my  pocket. 
Symbols  soiled  by  greed  and  misery. 

—  Don't  carry  it  like  that,  Mt.  Deasy  said.    You'll  pull  it  out 


The    Little    Review  39 

somewhere  and  lose  it.    You  just  buy  one  of  th^e  machines.    You'll 
find  them  very  handy. 
Answer  something. 

—  Mine  would  be  often  empty,  Stephen  said. 

That  same  room  and  hour,  the  same  wisdom:  and  I  the  same. 
Three  times  now.  Three  nooses  round  me  here.  Well,  I  can  break 
them  in  this  instant  if  I  will. 

—  Because  you  don't  save,  Mr.  Deasy  said,  pointing  his  finger. 
You  don't  know  yet  what  money  is.  Money  is  power,  when  you  have 
lived  as  long  as  I  have.  I  know,  I  know.  If  youth  but  knew.  But 
what  does  Shakespeare  say:  Put  money  in  thy  purse. 

—  lago,  Stephen  murmured. 

He  lifted  his  gaze  from  the  idle  shells  to  the  old  man's  stare. 

—  He  knew  what  money  was,  Mr.  Deasy  said.  He  made 
money.  A  poet,  yes,  but  an  Englishman  too.  Do  you  know  what  is 
the  pride  of  the  English  Do  you  know  what  is  the  proudest  word 
you  will  ever  hear  from  an  Englishman's  mouth? 

The  seas'  ruler.  His  seacold  eyes  looked  on  the  empty  bay; 
it  seems  history  is  to  blame:  on  me  and  on  my  words,  unhating. 

—  That  on  his  empire,  Stephen  said,  the  sun  never  sets. 

—  Ba!  Mr.  Deasy  cried.  That's  not  English.  A  French  Celt 
said  that. 

He  tapped  his  savingsbox  against  his  thumbnail. 

—  I  will  tell  you,  he  said  solemnly,  what  is  his  proudest  boast. 
/  paid  my  way. 

Good  man,  good  man. 

—  /  paid  my  way.  I  never  borrowed  a  shilling  in  my  life.  Can 
you  feel  that      /  owe  nothing.    Can  you? 

Mulligan,  nine  pounds,  three  pairs  of  socks,  ties.  Curran,  ten 
guineas.  McCann,  one  guinea.  Fred  Ryan,  two  shillings.  Temple, 
two  lunches,  Russell,  one  guinea,  Cousins,  ten  shillings,  Bob  Rey- 
nolds, half  a  guinea,  Kohler,  three  guineas,  Mrs.  McKernan,  five 
week's  board.    The  lump  I  have  is  useless. 

—  For  the  moment,  no,  Stephen  answered. 

Mr.  Deasy  stared  sternly  for  some  moments  over  the  mantel- 
box. 

—  I  knew  you  couldn't,  he  said  joyously.  But  one  day  you 
must  feel  it.    We  are  a  generous  people  but  we  must  also  be  just. 


40 


The    Little    Review 


—  I  fear  those  big  words,  Stephen  said,  which  make  us  so  un- 
happy. 

Mr.  Deasy  stared  sternly  for  some  moments  over  the  mantel- 
piece at  the  shapely  bulk  of  a  man  in  tartan  fiUibegs:  Albert  Ed- 
ward, Prince  of  Wales. 

—  You  think  me  an  old  fogey  and  an  old  tory,  his  thoughtful 
voice  said.  I  saw  three  generations  since  O'Connell's  time.  I  re- 
member the  famine  in  '46.  Do  you  know  that  the  orange  lodges 
agitated  for  repeal  of  the  union  twenty  years  before  O'Connell  did 
or  before  the  prelates  of  your  communion  denounced  him  as  a  de- 
magogue?   You  fenians  forget  some  things. 

Stephen  sketched  a  brief  gesture. 

—  I  have  rebel  blood  in  me  too,  Mr.  Deasy  said.  On  the  spin- 
dle side.  I  am  descended  from  Sir  John  Blackwood  who  voted 
against  the  union.    We  are  all  Irish,  all  kings'  sons. 

—  Alas,  Stephen  said. 

—  Per  vias  rectas,  Mr.  Deasy  said  firmly,  was  his  motto.  He 
voted  against  it:  and  put  on  his  topboots  to  ride  to  Dublin  from 
the  Ards  of  Down  to  do  so. 

Lal-the-ral-the-ra:  the  rocky  road  to  Dublin.  A  gruff  squire 
on  horseback  with  shiny  topboots.  Soft  day,  sir  John.  Soft  day, 
your  honour  ....  Day  ....  Day  ....  Two  topboots  jog  jangling  on 
to  Dublin.    Lal-the-ral-the-ra.  lal-the-ral-the  raddy. 

—  That  reminds  me,  Mr.  Deasy  said.  You  can  do  me  a 
favour,  Mr.  Dedalus,  with  some  of  your  literary  friends.  I  have 
a  letter  here  for  the  press.  Sit  down  a  moment.  I  have  just  to  copy 
the  end. 

He  went  to  the  desk  near  the  window,  pulled  in  his  chair  twice 
and  read  off  some  words  from  the  sheet  on  the  drum  of  his  type- 
writer. 

—  Sit  down.  Excuse  me,  he  said  over  the  shoulder,  the  dic- 
tates of  cofnmon  sense.    Just  a  moment. 

He  peered  from  under  his  shaggy  brows  at  the  manuscript 
by  his  elbow  and,  muttering,  began  to  prod  the  stiff  buttons  of  the 
keyboard  slowly,  sometimes  blowing  as  he  screwed  up  the  drum  to 
erase  an  error. 

Stephen  seated  himself  noiselessly  before  the  princely  presence. 
P'ramed  around  the  walls  images  of  vanished  horses  stood  in  homage, 
their  meek  heads  poised  in  air:  lord  Hastings'  Repulse,  the  duke  of 


T  he   Lit  tl  e    Review  41 


stminster's  Shotover,  the  duke  of  Beaufort's  Ceylon,  prix  de  Paris, 
)6.  Elfin  riders  sat  them,  watchful  of  a  sign.  He  saw  their  speeds 
J  shouted  with  the  shouts  of  vanished  crowds. 

—  Full  stop,  Mr.  Deasy  bade  his  keys.    But  prompt  ventilation 
this  all  important  question 

Where  Cranly  led  me  to  get  rich  quick,  hunting  his  Winners 
ong  the  mudsplashed  brakes,  amid  the  bawls  of  bookies  and  reek 
the  canteen,  over  the  motley  slush.  Even  money  Fair  Rebel. 
in  to  one  the  field.  Dicers  and  thimbleriggers  we  hurried  by, 
,er  the  hoofs,  the  vying  caps  and  jackets  and  past  the  meatfaced 
man,  a  butcher's  dame,  nuzzling  thirstily  her  clove  of  orange. 
Shouts  rang  shrill  from  the  boys'  playfield  and  a  whirring  whis- 
Again:  a  goal.  I  am  among  them,  among  their  battling  bodies 
a  medley,  the  joust  of  life.  You  mean  that  knock-kneed  mother's 
rling  who  seems  to  be  slightly  crawsick?  Jousts.  Time  shocked 
jounds,  shock  by  shock.  Jousts,  slush  and  uproar  of  battles,  the 
)zen  deathspew  of  the  slain,  a  shout  of  spearspikes  baited  with 
m's  bloodied  guts. 

—  Now  then,  Mr.  Deasy  said  rising. 

8     He  came  to  the  table,  pinning  together  his  sheets.     Stephen 
)od  up. 

—  I  have  put  the  matter  into  a  nutshell,  Mr.  Deasy  said.  It's 
»out  the  foot  and  mouth  disease.  Just  look  through  it.  There 
n  be  no  two  opinions  on  the  matter. 

May  I  trespass  on  your  valuable  space  .  That  doctrine  of 
issez  faire  which  so  often  in  our  history.  Our  cattle  trade.  The 
ly  of  all  our  old  industries.  Liverpool  ring  which  jockeyed  the 
aJway  harbour  scheme.  European  conflagration.  Grain  supplies 
rough  the  narrow  waters  of  the  channel.  The  pkiterperfect  im- 
irturbability  of  the  department  of  agriculture.  Pardoned  a  clas- 
2al  allusion.  Cassandra.  By  a  woman  who  was  no  better  than 
le  should  be.    To  come  to  the  point  et  issue. 

—  I  don't  mince  words,  do  I?  Mr.  Deasy  asked  as  Stephen 
ad  on. 

Foot  and  mouth  disease.  Known  as  Koch's  preparation.  Se- 
im  and  virus.  Percentage  of  salted  horses.  Rinderpest.  Em- 
jror's  horses  at  Miirzsteg,  lower  Austria.  Veterinary  surgeons. 
[r.  Henry  Blackwood  Price.  Courteous  offer  a  fair  trial.  Dictates 
■  common  sense.  All  important  question.  In  every  sense  of  the 
ord  take  the  bull  by  the  horns.    Thanking  you  for  the  hospitality 


43  T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Review 


of  your  columns.  iTii' 

—  I  want  that  to  be  printed  and  read,  Mr.  Deasy  said.  Yoi 
will  see  at  the  next  outbreak  they  will  put  an  embargo  on  Irish  cat- 
tle. And  it  can  be  cured.  It  is  cured.  My  cousin,  Blackwooc 
Price,  writes  to  me  it  is  regularly  treated  and  cured  in  Austria  b> 
cattle  doctors  there.  They  offer  to  come  over  here.  I  am  trying 
to  work  up  influence  with  the  department.  Now  I'm  going  to  try 
publicity.    I  am  surrounded  by  difficulties,  by  .  .  .  intrigues  by  ...  . 

He  raised  his  forefinger  and  beat  the  air  oldly  before  his  voice 
spoke. 

—  Mark  my  words,  Mr.  Dedalus,  he  said.  England  is  in  the 
hands  of  the  jews.  In  all  the  highest  places:  her  finance,  her 
press.  And  they  are  the  signs  of  a  nation's  decay.  Wherever 
they  gather  they  eat  up  the  nations  vital  strength.  I  have  seen  it 
coming  these  years.  As  sure  as  we  are  standing  here  the  jew  mer- 
chants are  already  at  their  work  of  destruction.  Old  England  is 
dying. 

He  stepped  swiftly  off,  his  eyes  coming  to  blue  life  as  they 
passed  a  broadsunbeam.    He  faced  about  and  back  again. 

—  Dying,  he  said,  if  not  dead  by  now. 

The  harlot's  cry  jrom  street  to  street 
Shall  weave  old  England's  windingsheet. 

His  eyes  open  wide  in  vision  stared  sternly  across  the  sun- 
beam in  which  he  halted. 

—  A  merchant,  Stephen  said,  is  one  who  buys  cheap  and  sells 
dear,  jew  or  gentile,  is  he  not? 

—  They  sinned  against  the  light,  Mr.  Deasy  said  gravely. 
And  you  can  see  the  darkness  in  their  eyes.  And  that  is  why 
they  are  wanderers  on  the  earth  to  this  day. 

On  the  steps  of  the  Paris  stock  exchange  the  goldskinned  men 
quoting  prices  on  their  gemmed  fingers.  Gabble  of  geese.  They 
swarmed  loud,  uncouth,  about  the  temple,  their  heads  thick  plotting 
under  maladroit  silk  hats.  Not  theirs:  these  clothes,  this  speech, 
these  gestures.  Their  full  slow  eyes  belied  the  words,  the  gestures 
eager  and  unoffending,  but  knew  the  rancours  massed  about  them 
and  knew  their  zeal  was  vain.     Vain  patience  to  heap  and  hoard. 


The    Little   Review  43 

Time  surely  would  scatter  all.  A  hoard  heaped  by  the  roacteide: 
plundered  and  passing  on.  Their  eyes  knew  their  years  of  wander- 
ing and,  patient,  knew  the  dishonours  of  their  flesh. 

—  Who  has  not?     Stephen  said. 

—  What  do  you  mean?    Mr.  Deasy  asked. 
He  came  forward  a  pace  and  stood  by  the  table.     His  under- 

jaw  fell  sideways  open  uncertainly.  Is  this  old  wisdom?  He  waits 
to  hear  from  me. 

—  History,  Stephen  said,  is  a  nightmare  from  which  I  am 
trying  to  awake. 

From  the  playfield  the  boys  raised  a  shout.  A  whirring  whistle: 
goal. 

—  Tihe  ways  of  the  Creator  are  not  our  ways,  Mr.  Deasy  said. 
All  history  moves  towards  one  great  goal,  the  manifestation  of  God. 

Stephen  jerked  his  thumb  towards  the  window,  saying: 

—  That  is  God. 
Hooray!     Ay!  Whrrwhee! 
What?    Mr,  Deasy  asked. 

—  A  shout  in  the  street,  Stephen  answered,  shrugging  his 
shoulders. 

Mr.  Deasy  looked  down  and  held  for  a  while  the  wings  of  his 
nose  tweaked  between  his  fingers.  Looking  up  again  he  set  them 
free. 

— I  am  happier  than  you  are,  he  said.  We  have  committed 
many  errors  and  many  sins.  A  woman  brought  sin  into  the  world. 
For  a  woman  who  was  no  better  than  she  should  be,  Helen,  the 
runaway  wife  of  Menelaus,  ten  years  the  Greeks  made  war  on  Troy. 
A  faithless  wife  first  brought  the  strangers  to  our  shore  here, 
O'Rourke's  wife.  Prince  of  Breffni.  A  woman  too  brought  Parnell 
low.  Many  errors,  many  failures  but  not  the  one  sin,  I  am  a 
struggler  now  at  the  end  of  my  days.  But  I  will  fight  for  the  right 
till  the  end. 

For  Ulster  will  fight 
And  Ulster  will  be  right . 

Stephen  raised  the  sheets  in  his  hand. 

—  Well,,  sir,  he  began. 


44  The    Little    Review 

—  I  foresee,  Mr.  Deasy  said,  that  you  will  not  remain  here 
very  long  at  this  work.  You  were  not  born  to  be  a  teacher,  I 
think.     Perhaps  I  am  wrong. 

—  A  learner  rather,  Stephen  said. 

And  here  what  will  you  learn  more? 
Mr,  Deasy  shook  his  head. 

—  WTio  knows?  he  said.  To  learn  one  must  be  humble.  But 
life  is  the  great  teacher. 

Stephen  rustled  the  sheets  again. 

—  As  regards  these,  he  began. 

—  Yes,  Mr.  Deasy  said.  You  have  two  copies  there.  If  you 
can  have  them  published  at  once. 

'felegraph.     Irish  Homestead. 

—  I  will  try,  Stephen  said,  and  let  you  know  tomorrow.  I  know 
two  editors  slightly. 

—  That  will  do.  Mr.  Deasy  said.  There  is  no  time  to  lose 
to  the  Mr.  Field,  M.  P.  There  is  a  meeting  of  the  cattle  trade 
association  today  at  the  City  Arms  Hotel.  I  asked  him  to  lay  my 
letter  before  the  meeting.  You  see  if  you  can  get  it  into  your 
two  papers.    What  are  they 

—  The  Evening  Telegraph 

—  That  will  do,  Mr.  Deasy  said.  There  is  no  time  to  lose. 
Now  I  have  to  answer  that  letter  from  my  cousin. 

—  Good  morning,  sir,  Stephen  said  putting  the  sheets  in  his 
pocket.    Thank  you. 

—  Not  at  all,  Mr.  Deasy  said  as  he  searched  the  papers  on  his 
desk.    I  like  to  break  a  lance  with  you.  old  as  I  am. 

—  Good  morning,  sir,  Stephen  said  again,  bowing  again  to  his 
bent  hick. 

He  went  out  by  irc  open  porch  and  do  \ii  the  gravel  path 
under  the  trees,  hearing  the  cries  of  voices  and  crack  of  sticks  from 
the  playfield.  The  lions  couchant  on  the  pillars  as  he  passed  out 
through  the  gate;  toothless  terrors.  Still  I  will  help  him  in  his  fight. 
Mulligan  will  dub  me  a  new  name:  the  bullockbefri ending  bard. 

—  Mr.  Dedalus  ! 

Running  after  me.    No  more  letters,  T  hope. 

—  Just  one  moment. 

—  Yes,  sir,  Stephen  said,  turning  hard  and  swallowing  his 
breath. 


I 


The   Little    Review  45 

—  I  just  wanted  to  say,  he  said.  Ireland,  they  say,  has  the 
honour  of  being  the  only  country  which  never  persecuted  the  jews. 
Do  you  know  that?    No.    And  do  you  know  why? 

He  frowned  sternly  on  the  bright  air. 

—  Why,  sir?     Stephen  asked,  beginning  to  smile. 

—  Because  she  never  let  them  in,  Mr.  Deasy  said  solemnly, 
A  coughball  of  laughter  leaped  from  his  throat  dragging  after 

it  a  rattling  chain  of  phlegm.     He  turned  back  quickly,  coughing, 
laughing,  his  lifted  arms  waving  to  the  air. 

—  She  never  let  them  in,  he  cried  again  through  his  laughter 
as  he  stamped  on  gaitered  feet  over  the  gravel  of  the  path.  That's 
w^hy. 

On  his  wise  shoulders  through  the  checkerwork  of  leaves  the 
sun  flung  spangles,  dancing  coins. 

(to  be  continued) 


FRAGMENTS 

Ben   Hecht 

THE  curious  and  monotonous  mystery  of  the  city  lies  in  my 
'      thought  like  forgotten  music. 
A  man  walking  here.     A  man  walking  there.     A  horse  standing  at 
a  curbstone  with  his  head  hanging.    The  oval-tinted  face  of  a  woman 
-peering  out  of  a  taxi-cab  window  as  it  rushes  by. 
These  things  multiplied  a  million  times  .... 

And  the  houses.    Mile  upon  mile  of  houses  crowdec^  and  flattened, 
flung  about  with  a  certain  precision,  a  geometrical  smear. 
Mile  upon  mile  of  houses  shaped  like  churches,  like  jails,  like  cathe- 
drals, like  battlements.     There  are  not  enough  adjectives  in  my 
mind  to  describe  them.     And  yet  they  are  identical  as  rain. 
How  many  windows  are  there  in  the  city?    Windows  through  which 
people  sometimes  catch  cinematographic  glimpses  of  each  other. 
"About  these  houses  there  is  something  which  no  one  has  ever  said 
or  written. 


46  The    Little    Review 


About  these  windows  there  is  some  weird  phrase  which  has  nevei 
been  born. 

Criss  cross  of  streets  flanked  with  houses,  stuffed  with  houses.  Anc 
the  signs  lettered  on  the  store  window.  Names  which  I  have  neva 
encountered    in  fiction. 

Names  which  I  find  myself  curiously  trying  to  memorize. 
There   is  something  about  the  city,   the   inexhaustible   wilderness 
known  as  a  city,  that  I  would  say  but  it  never  comes  to  my  tongue 
Corners  of  streets,  each  a  world's  end. 

I  walk  through  streets  gazing  with  irritation:  people  and  their  per- 
petual houses.  IT 
Noting  how  men  and  women  appear  to  be  going  somewhere. 
Ah  these  mysterious  destinations  as  simple  as  my  own.     A  million 
simplicities  tangled  into  vastness. 

What  is  there  mysterious  about  me  and  about  that  which  I  know? 
I  move.    I  have  the  most  obvious  of  motives. 

Homes  that  are  filled  with  faces  I  shall  never  see.     Things  that 
are  done  from  moment  to  moment  that  I  shall  never  know. 
All  these  haunt  me  more  than  the  thought  of  angels  in  heaven. 
I  am  aware  of  great  and  invisible  agitations.     What  this  woman  t" 
dreams.    What  this  man  thinks. 

Multiplied  by  a  million,  and  the  monotony  of  it  becomes  too  intricate 
to  penetrate. 

There  is  something  about  the  whole  shouting,  sweeping  interlacing 
arrangement  of  eyes  and  masonry-lettered  store  windows  and  mov- 
ing feet  which  accompanies  me  like  an  unborn  dream. 
The  man  walking  here.  The  woman  walking  there.  The  crowd.. 
The  old  horse  and  the  cab  which  rushes  by  and  carries  away  the 
oval-tinted  face. 

They  becom^  a  part  of  my  thought. 

Multiplied  by  a  million  they  shift  and  move  within  my  brain,  the 
simple  and  insufferable  parts  of  chaos. 

Of  the  Swede  and  the  Dago  who  are  digging  in  the  street  as  I  pass 
I  can  make  a  picture. 

They  stand  beside  a  fire  they  have  made  out  of  soap  boxes  to 
thaw  the  ground.  The  flames  caught  by  the  wind  twist  like  the 
scarves  of  a  dancer. 

The  flames  loosed  by   the  wind   stretch   their   innumerable   little^' 
yellow  claws  upward  in  a  deft  and  undulant  scratching. 


la 
krw 
Del 
[yt 
can 
lilt 
ad 
k 
eyi 

K 

[ta 
V 
k 
W 

it 

3( 


The    Little    Review  47 


take  a  note  book  from  my  pocket  and  write  down  the  line. 

The  fire  is  like  a  little  golden  fir  tree  in  the  night. 

'  I  had  time  I  would  also  jot  down  a  line  about  the  grave  faces  of 
le  Dago  and  the  Swede  as  they  look  at  the  soap  boxes  changing 
ito  flame. 
I  such  things  I  can  make  pictures. 

a  thousand  streets  scattered  criss  cross  about  and  beyond  me. 
hrough  a  thousand  buildings.  People  are  moving.  One  this  way. 
ne  that  way. 

[y  blindness  overwhelms  me. 
can  see  only  a  Dago  and  a  Swede  and  a  fire  that  made  me  think  of 

little  golden  fir  tree  and  a  horse  standing  at  a  curbstone  with  his 
ead  hanging. 

he  sorrow  of  one  horse  hanging  his  head  is  such  a  little  thing, 
eyond  my  sight  I  am  conscious  of  a  press,  a  swarm,  a  jungle  of 
Duses,  a  wilderness  of  faces,  a  monstrous  number  of  thoughts  and 

eams. 

hey   are   everywhere   but  within   the   peculiar  solitude   which   I 

ihabit. 

there  were  but  distance  to  the  city.  A  horizon  to  solace  the 
lought.  To  lend  leisure  and  the  placidity  of  illusion  to  my  dreams, 
ut  the  solitude  of  the  city  is  a  solitude  without  horizon.  Space 
ithout  distance.  Everything  is  upon  me.  I  look  straight  ahead 
id  the  broken  twisted  vista  of  the  city  rushes  upon  me. 

vista  lacking  infinitude  and  lacking  finalities. 

hundred  feet  away  life  is  lost  in  the  simple  and  yet  insufferable 
nknown. 

n  unknown  to  which  architecture  has  given  angles  and  dimensions. 
,nd  yet  within  them  transpire  murders  and  the  births  of  Gods, 
dimensions  which  do  not  enclose  but  conceal  further  that  which  is 
aturally  hidden, 
uch  are  houses.    And  streets. 

/ithin  them  the  great  mulitple  of  life  is  forever  active.     My  soli- 
ide  is  a  little  basket  with  which  I  rush  from  corner  to  corner, 
lach  wall,  each  stone,  each  face  is  a  guillotine  for  my  eyes. 
lS  blue  water  lifted  into  the  hand  becomes  white,  the  chaos  which 
,11s  into  my  little  basket  of  solitude  becomes  solitude. 


48  The    Little    Review 


That  which  1  seek  is  forever  a  part  of  me.    And  yet  I  rush,  rush. 

The  monotonous  lust  with  which  the  blood  pumps  in  and  pun 

out  of  my  heart  has  its  brother  lust  in  my  brain  which  pumps  a 

pumps  its  thoughts  into  the  greater  and  more  multiple  mechani 

of  this  unknown. 

And  the  neighborhoods  that  are  always  strange  like  strange  countr 

with  strange  peoples  when  I  enter  them. 

Here  is  a  glistening  polished  stretch  of  a  street.     A  street  carv 

out  of  stone. 

People  with  the  finish  of  marble.  I 

Tliere  a  street  made  out  of  rags.     And  the  inevitable  pretense  1 

trees,  or  are  they  lamp  posts?  ' 

The  lettered  windows  with  some  more  names  I  have  never  sei. 

Houses  in  regimental  masonry. 

Houses  embracing  like  drunkards.    A  new  man.    A  new  woman. 

new  horse. 

Again  the  immobile  and  perpetual  multitude.    Again  the  fragmei 

of  the  monstrous  multiple. 

There  is  something  about  them  that  has  never  been  said. 

What  is  the  eternal  unknown  with  its  bogymen  compared  to  ti 

vaster  and  more  perfect  physical  oblivion? 

The  monstrous  detachment  of  each  tiny  thing  about  me  from  mys 

is  greater  than  the  spaces  of  the  stars. 

And  night.    The  embrace  of  unknowns. 

I  look  at  lights  and  down  vanishing  streets.     At  shado\vs  whi 

mock  the  illusion  of  emptiness. 

The  man  and  the  horse  and  the  color  of  day  have  disappean 

They  have  left  behind  a  pregnancy. 

Night.    The  Madonna  of  the  spaces.    The  great  adjective  of  da 

Night.    The  unknown  barbarian. 

With  the  same  indefinable  and  helpless  monotony  that  the  wa\ 

hurl  themselves  onward  my  thoughts  beat  from  moment  to  mom( 

against  the  night. 

Washing  tirelessly  toward  the  little  lights,  the  big  lights,  the  sme 

and  zig  zag  of  lights  that  men  kindle. 

Lights  in  the  windows.    Lights  on  the  streets.    Round  bald  stari 

twinkling  lights  that  are  neither  signals  nor  beacons  nor  the  lam 

of  Aladdin. 

Lights  like  the  light  that  burns  over  my  head  in  my  room. 


The    Little    Review  49 

These  lights  are  the  unknown  seen  through  the  black  windowed 

night. 

What  are  the  mystic  fires  that  dance  and  flicker  on  the  hill  of 

dreams  to  these  lights? 

Those  I  can  see  with  my  eyes  lure  me  and  challenge  more  than  the 

mystery  of  sun  rising  or  stars  shining. 

But  those  others.     Of  which  I  do  not  even  think.     Lights  behind 

walls.    Behind  houses.    Around  corners. 

Who  can  think  of  a  system  of  philosophy  looking  at  a  light  shining 

from  a  strange  window  in  the  night?" 

Philosophy — the  manners  of  the  soul.    The  profound  and  perspiring 

elimination  of  adjectives  from  life. 

It  yet  remains  that  the  little  bourgeois  family  is  an  infinitesimal 

through  the  lighted  window. 

Ah   the  monotonous   pantomime   of   figures   seen    through   lighted 

windows. 

The  multiple  and  monstrous  pantomime  of  figures  forever  unseen. 

It  yet  remains  that  the  little  bourgois  family  is  an  infinitesimal 

fragment  of  the  unknown.    The  everlasting  unknown. 

Thought  and  beauty.     These  are  things  which  have  been  done. 

Things  of  outline  and  soul. 

'There  is  no  room  in  the  unknown  for  things  which  have  outline  or 

soul. 

The  unknown  contains  only  that  which  has  never  been  said  or 

thought. 

I  seek  this  in  the  city.    It  is  forever  rushing  upon  and  by  me. 

I  am  forever  questing  the  indefinable  and  unimagined  illumination 

which  will  make  all  life  a  part  of  my  solitude. 

Thus  in  the  city  there  are  those  without  curiosity  and  who  therefore 

known  everything. 

The  solitude  in  which  they  move  has  horizons.  „ 

The  unknown  exists  only  for  seekers. 

He  whose  imagination  like  a  rat  nibbles  day  after  day  upon  his  brain 

shall  know  nothing  that  he  wishes  to  know.     Shall  see  nothing  that 

he  would  see.    He  shall  known  only  the  hunger  and  unrest.     The 

hunger  and  unrest  of  forgotten  music. 


5©  The    Little    Review 


11 

IMAGINARY   LETTERS 

(William  Bland  Burn  to  his  Wife) 
Wyndham    Lewis 

Petrograd,  28th  April  191 7. 
My  dear  old  Grecian  cockshy, 

All  right,  the  certain  acerbity  of  tone  that  has  marked  our  cor- 
respondence lately  shall  cease.  But  I  am  much  too  rough  a  person 
ever  to  settle  quite  down  again.  You  have  really  done  something 
unpardonable.  You  have  taken  no  notice  of  my  most  particular 
protege.  Had  you  spat  on  him  it  would  have  been  less  wounding 
than  the  exact  reception  you  gave  him.  In  fact,  I  am  not  sure  that 
that  would  not  have  been  the  treatment  that  would  have  pleased 
me  best. 

The  motives  of  your  present  letter  I  do  not  pretend  to  under- 
stand. You  say  "were  quite  aware  how  offensive  I  could  be,  just  as 
you  were  not  oblivious  to  the  fact  that  I  was  no  beauty."  Are  you 
trying  to  get  some  of  your  own  back?  You  continue,  "It  is  also 
quite  unnecessary  to  underline  your  good  poTnts  —  I  am  aware  of 
them,  too;  that  is  why  I  married  you."  When  you  say,  "I  rather  like 
your  eyes"  am  I  to  take  that  as  an  insolent  thrust,  or  do  you  really 
mean  it?  I  think  they  are  most  God-forsaken  orbs,  but  there  is  no 
accounting  for  taste.  Perhaps  you  see  points  in  my  horrible 
"items"?  You  refer  to  yourself,  my  clever  spouse,  as  "the  reproduc- 
trice  of  Yorke"  and  assert  that  as  you  are  not  my  wife,  then  there 
is  nothing  to  be  readjusted.  You  say  that  Peele  is  really  my  wife.1 
Now  what  may  you  mean  by  that?  Greek  Peele,  (a  Greek  like  you) 
the  immaculate  nut.  the  very  high-well-born  nickel  nib  of  perfection, 
is  the  only  object  I  should  die  for  in  this  world.  His  blue  eyes  are 
violent  mirthful  fountains  that  splash  out  their  delicate  exaltation. 
When  his  eyes  are  turned  into  mine,  and  I  look  into  his.  I  am  nearly 
suffocated  as  though  water  were  dashed  into  my  mouth.  His  red 
lips  make  words  so  beautiful  that  if  I  could  use  the  words  made  by 
them  I  could  smash  the  sonnets  in  an  instant:  leave  gentle  Shakes- 


The    Little    Review  Si 

^peare  far  behind.  His  nostrils  are  little  cups  from  which  he  sips 
the  air,  over  delicate  crystal.  His  body  is  a  shining  flexible  wand, 
with  a  million  magic  properties.  But  my  dear  girl,  I  am  not  even 
his  friend!  If  you  suggest  anything  gross,  even  in  fancy,  it  is  a 
non-sense.  Crossness  only  occurs  where  —  it  must.  All  my  gross- 
ness  is  for  you,  believe  me.  All  for  you!  You  are  truly  my  wife, 
my  dear. 

You,  as  you  say,  are  the  Reproductrice  of  Yorke — an  extremely 
intelligent  Reproductrice;  you  give  one  some  rude  slaps,  like  a 
good  punching  ball. 

Now,  it  is  very  interesting;  I  can  hardly  conceive  how  we 
can  live  together  after  the  horrible  quarrel  that  has  suddenly  sprung 
up  in  the  post.  If  you  do  not  say  things,  you  are  not  able,  properly, 
to  think  them.  You  have  said  several  unacceptable  things  and  al- 
though you  may  never  say  them  again,  you  will  now  be  able  to  think 
them.  Up  till  this  time  we  have  both  displayed  such  exceptional 
delicacy  that  our  relationship  has  really  been  very  pampered.  So  I 
doubt  if  it  can  stand  the  resounding  whacks  that  we  have  both 
dealt  it.  It  is  at  present  tottering  and  squinting  at  me  very  like 
Charlie  Chaplin  when  his  opponent  gets  him  on  the  forehead  with 
a  brick.     Still,  there  may  be  a  Chaplinesque  recovery! 

You're  a  clever  old  witch!  You  sit  there  calmly  with  the  talkative 
Yorke  and  receive  my  epistles  like  a  volcanic  diplomat.  The  most 
you  do  is  to  dribble  a  little  lava  down  the  otherwise  self-possessed 
pages  of  your  letters.  Meantime,  I  have  had  no  explanation  of  the 
genesis  of  this  correspondence.  You  have  always  displayed  whole- 
some respect  for  what  I  had  to  say  and  never  certainly  have  taken 
the  trouble  to  meddle  with  the  affairs  of  my  mind  until  I  came 
here.  I  know  that  you  had  the  strongest  objection  to  my  making 
this  trip.  But  you  never  gave  me  any  reason.  As  soon  as, I  got 
here  you  wrote  me  a  careful  letter  in  a  different  spirit  to  anything 
that  you  had  previously  shown.  Other  careful  letters  followed,  all 
of  them  aggressive.  I  just  jawed  ahead  to  you  in  answer  to  them. 
Our  traditional  shyness  prevented  me  from  asking  you  too  plainly 
what  had  happened.    I  suggested  villerand  tentatively. 

But  when  I  forced  your  hand  and  smashed  our  shyness  for 
good,  you  answered  with  a  tongue  I  had  had  no  previous  indication 
that  you  were  ripe  to  use. 

So  we'd  better  have  a  little  more  light  on  the  subject  before 


52  The    Little    Review 


i 


again  building  up  the  necessary  wall  of  reserve.  ' 

The  Revolution  here  is  on  a  p^r  with  all  other  contemporai 
events.  I  am  afraid  it  will  make  the  War  more  interminable  tha 
ever.  All  the  Jews  are  mobilized.  They  march  about  in  huge  trib* 
with  banners.  They  have  formed  themselves  into  a  sort  of  Parlij 
ment,  getting  elected  all  over  the  place  or  electinp^  thcmselve 
Someone  has  published  all  their  real  names  —  a  horrible  list,  ca 
culated  to  make  a  pious  Ally  cross  himself.  Then  a  Jew  calle 
Lenin  has  arrived,  whose  real  name  is  Rosenbauer.  He  prances  a 
over  the  place  and  causes  a  great  deal  of  confusion.  Meantim 
the  Russians  come  out  with  their  families  and  watch  in  astonishmer 
the  proceedings  of  the  Jews. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  there  are  a  good  many  Russians  spoutiir 
and  flinging  themselves  about  too.  But  the  Jews  have  easily  mof' 
of  the  place  in  the  sun.  Now,  Jews  are  a  most  attractive  race.  Bi;' 
they  are  consumed  with  such  an  antipathy  for  this  country  and  sh(y 
such  a  strange  predilection  for  Germany  in  all  things  and  in  a 
places  that  their  spirited  intervention  is,  at  this  particular  momen' 
unfortunate.  Will  Russia  make  a  separate  peace?  -«—  the  grea 
question,  no  doubt,  everywhere  at  present!  I 

I,  on  the  spot,  can  give  no  sort  of  answer,    If  there  were  nothi 
ing  but  Russians  in  Russia,  Russia  would  not.  ■ 

Things  really  are  in  rather  a  fine  state  here  at  present.  It  i  f 
a  sort  of  sociable  wilderness.  But  the  bourgeois  is  bustling.  Hare  i 
significant  American  money  is  pouring  in.  rapidly  filling  up  ever  i 
empty  but  respectable  little  pocket.  The  Jews  would  never  le  I 
things  stop  like  this,  anyway.  What  will  be  the  upshot  of  it  all  her  | 
and  in  other  countries?  A  change  for  the  worse,  naturally.  Onl;  \ 
more  hypocrisy,  confusion  and  vulgarity.  After  this  war,  and  th'<  'i 
"democratisation"  of  all  countries,  no  man  will  ever  say  what  b 
means,  yes,  seldomer  even  than  at  present.  The  thing  that  is  no 
will  reign  in  the  lands.  * 

So  my  opinion  of  this  precious  revolution  is  that  it  will  give  th( 
War  a  year  or  two  more  life  and  accelerate,  after  the  war,  the 
chea]>ening  and  decay  of  the  earth. 

I  therefore  sally  forth  daily  and  watch  the  manoeuvres  of  m> 
long-nosed  friends  with  displeasure.  A  band  of  big  clear-faced 
child-like  soldiers,  led  by  an  active  little  bourgeois  officer,  counter* 


The    Little    Review  53 


jmonstrating-,  pleases  me  in  a  cheerless  sort  of  way.  Those  brave, 
indsome,  ignorant  children  are  the  cream  of  the  world  now  and 
hen  they  grow  older  and  thoughtful.  Why  cannot  the  right  words 
5  spoken  to  them,  the  true  words,  that  would  make  them  see  clear 
the  heart  of  the  huge  fudge?  They  would  sweep  all  this  canaille' 
way  with  one  swing  of  their  arm,  in  every  country  and  possess  the 
irth  for  a  time  at  least. 

But  that  dream  must  be  abandoned.    It  is  too  absurd. 

These  horrible,  imbecile  transparent  English  "labour"  men  that 
5me  over  here!  I  heard  one  speaking  yesterday.  He  had 
OUGHT  branded  all  over  him  till  it  was  actually  fascinating  like 
ears  Soap  rings  .  A  Russian  when  he  is  bought  does  not  leave  the 
cket  on  his  new  livery!  You  almost  see,  with  these  men,  how 
luch  they  have  been  paid. 

Yours, 

BLAND    BURN. 

20th  May,  191 7 
ly  dear  Lydia, 

I  have  just  received  your  letter  telling  me  that  you  have  sailed 
or  America  and  intend  getting  a  divorce  there.  You  seem  to  be 
mtting  yourself  to  a  great  deal  of  inconvenience.  Are  not  these 
hings  generally  arranged  without  such  a  pronounced  displacements. 
Jut  I  am  sure  you  know  best  in  all  matters  of  that  sort. 

You  tell  me  that  you  were  made  for  me,  as  a  wife:  especially 
nade,  at  great  expense,  I  presume  .  You  say  that  I  could  have 
)een  as  outrageous  as  I  pleased  if  I  had  left  you  a  sort  of  little 
^.obinson  Crusoe  Island  above  the  raging  flood.  You  say  that  you 
oved  me,  but  that  you  have  removed  all  you  love,  with  great 
are.  to  other  climes,  where  you  will  in  due  time  decide  what  is  to 
3e  done  with  it.  Meanwhile,  as  a  paradoxical  set-off  to  these  state- 
nents,  you  inform  me  that  Yorke  is  not  my  child.  Adulteress! 
\bominable  adulteress  !  Now  what  am  I  to  believe?  I  suspect  all 
y^our  stuff  about  your  love  to  be  a  crafty  and  vindictive  setting 
or  this  shaking  and  shameless  news. 

You  have  taken  Yorke  with  you.  I  am  not  going  helter-skelter 
in  pursuit. 

To  mix  me  more,  to  weaken  .the  testimony  of  my  boasted  hall 


54 


The    Little    Review 


mark,  and  make  a  Slingsby  baby  of  the  genuine  Yorke,  you  con- 
clude your  letter:  "Cannot  you  think  of  anyone  else  with  a  large 
bottom?"  —  I  cannot  —  that  you  would  commit  adultery  with.  So 
I  presume  you  are  fooling.     I  believe  you  are  still  in  London.      ^ 

Yours,  1 

BLAND   BURN.  -I 

{to  be  concluded) 


an 


11 


so 


WOMEN   AND  MEN 

Ford   Madox   Hueffer 

III 

DR.  WEININGER  in  his  long  book  against  women  tilts  not  \ 
against  any  recorded  woman,  not  against  and  woman  I* 
that  he  ever  met  or  against  any  individual  who  is  chronicled  in  ■ 
history.  No,  he  sets  up  a  simulacrum,  a  being  that  never  was  'i 
either  upon  the  land  or  in  the  sea.  He  sets  up  the  Eternal  Feminine  \ 
—  an  indefinable,  incomprehensible  entity  whom  he  proclaims,  ' 
after  having  set  it  up,  to  be  incapable  of  any  human  function  save  i 
that  of  motherhood.  For  motherhood  he  entertains  a  profound  *, 
contempt  *  \ 

It  is  rather  touching  to  consider  in  this  connection  that  the  | 
last  writing  of  Schopenhauer  was  a  short  poem  in  praise  of  the  * 
Virgin  Mary  as  the  symbol  of  maternity.    But  no  doubt  Dr.  Wein-  ' 


*  "There  is  an  unbreakable  link  between  the  mother  and  child,  physical, 
like  the  cord  that  united  the  two  before  childbirth.  This  is  the  real  nature  of 
the  maternal  relation;  and  for  my  part,  I  protest  against  the  fashion  in  which 
it  18  praised,  its  very  indiscriminate  character  being  made  a  merit.  I  believe 
myself  that  many  great  artists  have  recognised  this,  but  have  chosen  to  be  silent 
about  it.  The  extraordinary  over-praising  of  Raphael  is  losing  ground  and  the 
singers  of  maternal  love  are  no  higher  than  Fishchart  or  Richepin." 


T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view  55 


inger  did  not  read  Schopenhauer  as  attentively  as  all  that  comes  to. 

What  then  does  this  subtle  and  intangible  simulacrum  of  Fe- 
mininity amount  to?  No  one  has  seen  her;  no  one  has  given  her  a 
name;  no  one  has  touched  her.  She  is  as  elusive  as  the  Holy  Grail 
as  to  which  even  the  knights  who  sought  it  through  the  ages  were 
uncertain  whether  it  was  the  divine  blood  or  the  vessel  which  con- 
tained it.  She  is,  thi  stype  of  the  Eternal  Feminine,  as  vanished 
as  the  lost  continent  of  Atlantes  or  the  islands  of  the  Hesperides.  Of 
this  Unknown  Woman  we  have  no  clear  conception.  Weininger 
wrote  her  down  as  W  x,  and  we  all  of  us  have  a  strong  conception 
of  her  negatives.  We  all  of  us  know  what  she  isn't.  Thus  she  isn't 
truthful,  isn't  steadfast;  isn't  strong  —  can't  in  fact  be  trusted 
not  to  read  our  postcards. 

But  when  it  comes  to  defining  what  she  is  we  have  none  of  us 
the  vaguest  settled  idea.  We  have  ideas  that  are  constantly  or 
that  are  very  infrequently  being  unsettled.  It  is  a  matter  of  one  sex 
passion  or  another.  The  men  who  talk  about  women  are  men  ren- 
dered sensitive  to  some  individual  by  the  passion  of  love  or  by  the 
passion  of  jealousy.  The  women  who  talk  about  women  are  women 
rendered  sensitive  by  the  passion  of  jealousy  or  the  passion  of  greed. 
Otherwise  we  all  live  together  without  troubling  very  much  about 
the  complementary  sex.  If  we  are  men,  we  might,  supposing  us  to 
be  roused  to  it  —  we  might  venture  some  vague  generalities  as  to 
women.  Supposing  us  to  be  women  in  a  similar  way  we  might  utter 
some  vague  generalities  as  to  men.  We  might  say  that  you  can 
never  trust  a  man  when  he  is  out  of  your  sight,  although  every 
woman  is  constantly  —  and  with  perfect  rightness  trusting  some 
man  or  other  who  may  be  leagues  away. 

In  a  small  way  Dr.  Weininger  analyses  the  entity  of  one 
woman;  persistently  Schopenhauer  analysed  the  characters  of  his 
mother  and  of  his  housekeeper.  Heine  on  the  other  hand  projected 
for  us  quite  a  number  of  entirely  different  individuals  who  happened 
to  attract  him.  So  did  Shakespeare;  so  did  George  Meredith  who 
is  said  to  be  the  greatest  portrayer  of  women  that  the  world  has 
ever  seen.  - 

But  there  cannot  be  any  doubt  that  the  great  bulk  of  humanity 
is  entirely  indifferent  to  the  subject.  It  thinks  it  isn't  but  it  is.  It 
is  indifferent  to  this  extent: 

Every  man  or  every  woman  of  the  modern  world  has  a  certain 


56  T  h  e    Li  1 1  le    Review 

number  —  usually  a  very  limited  number  —  of  passionate  ex- 
periences. During  those  moments  of  passion  the  man  or  the  woman 
will  be  alive  to  the  member  of  the  opposite  sex  who  for  the  time 
being  attracts  him.  He  or  she  may  or  m^y  not  be  alive  to  any 
members  of  either  sex  who  stand  in  the  way  or  who  help  him  or  her 
to  attain  to  the  satisfaction  of  his  or  her  desires.  But,  once  those 
desires  are  satisfied  the  curiosity  dies  down.  It  is  dead  until  a 
new  passion  is  awakened.  Thus,  the  normal  human  being,  being 
reasonably  constant,  the  amount  of  curiosity  as  to  the  opposite  sex — • 
the  amount  of  time  during  which  this  curiosity  prevails  —  is  by  com- 
parison very  short  indeed. 

The  period,  of  course,  varies  in  different  nations  and  it  is 
difficult  to  arrive  at  any  data  other  than  those  afforded  by  public 
statistics,  which,  in  the  nature  of  things,  ignore  psychology.  But 
roughly  speaking  in  England  the  average  marrying  age  is  24  and 
the  number  of  divorce  cases  is  about  three  per  cent  of  the  marriages 
that  take  place.  Supposing  then  the  average  age  of  puberty  to  be 
fourteen,  we  may  take  it  that  that  the  duration  of  curiosity  as  to 
the  opposite  sex  is  about  ten  years  of  a  man  or  a  woman's  life,  and, 
putting  the  average  duration  of  life  throughout  the  western  world 
at  sixty  years  we  find  that  the  actual  duration  of  personal  curiosity 
as  to  either  opposing  sex  is  about  '  «  —  16.6%  of  the  total  dura- 
tion of  life  * 

In  the  remaining  83.3%  of  our  lives  we  are  as  a  rule  not 
prompted  to  any  special  curiosity  as  to  members  of  the  opposite  sex. 


*  I  am  of  course  aware  that  these  figures,  though  they  are  statistically  cor- 
rect, are  not  really  to  be  relied  upon  as  a  statement  of  fact.  But  they  are 
really  nearer  the  mark  than  some  observers  might  hastily  conclude.  For  instance 
in  almost  every  civilised  country  there  is  a  more  or  less  great  outcry  to  the 
effect  that  divorce  is  greatly  on  the  increase  and  this  is  held  to  be  evidence  of 
the  fact  that  all  civilised  nations  are  indulging  in  what  is  generally  called  a 
pandemonium  of  vice,  or  of  what,  for  the  purposes  of  this  argument,  it  is  more 
scientific  to  term  sexual  curiosity.  But  if  the  reader  will  consider  the  immense 
industrial  population  of  England,  the  equally  immense  agricultural  populations 
of  Germany,  France,  and  Russia,  not  to  mention  the  United  States  —  to  these 
almost  un-numbered  millions  of  men  and  women  who  are  much  too  hard  worked 
to  indulge  in  any  kind  of  pandemonium,  or  indeed  in  any  kind  of  mental  cu- 
riosity at  all  —  the  reader  will  perceive  how  unconsidered  any  such  verdict  must 


The    Little    Review  57 


nd  during  our  periods  of  quiescence,  of  normality,  we  have  whe- 
er  of  Women  or  of  Men  our  indefinite  vision  of  the  Eternal  Femi- 
ine  or  of  the  Egregious  Male  only  our  indefinite  image.  Of  course 
there  are  men  who  are  perpetually  interested  in  the  chase  after 
new  women  just  as  there  are  women  who  only  become  alive  when 
man  is  in  the  room.  And  indeed  I  have  generally  heard  it  ob- 
served that  English  women  are  vastly  more  interested  in  men  than 
are  their  German  sisters,  just  as  French  women  are  said  to  be  more 
interested  in  men  than  are  the  English.  And  indeed,  as  far  as 
my  personal  observation  has  gone  I  am  inclined  to  agree  with  tliis 
general  impression.  Nevertheless  in  each  case  the  approximate 
result  is  the  same.  The  view  that  the  English  woman  has  of  "a 
Man"  may  differ  from  those  of  the  French,  the  Germans  or  the 
Russians,  but  it  is  nevertheless  largely  a  view  of  an  object  that 
never  existed  —  a  view  of  an  abstraction. 

And  there  are  of  course  a  great  many  abstractions.  There  is 
no  knowing  what  type  of  Abstract  Man  you  will  not,  if  you  are  a 
woman,  select  as  your  normal  male  bemg.  Supposing  that,  in  the 
home  of  your  childhood  the  particular  "He"  was  always  being  held 
up  to  you,  by  your  mother,  your  nurse  and  your  female  servants, 
as  somebody  gross,  negligent,  self  indulgent  —  the  person  who  al- 
ways left  his  slippers  in  the  drawing  room.  In  that  case  the 
odds  are  that  you  will  for  the  rest  of  your  life  regard  the  normal 
man  as  something  clumsy,  stupid  and  wanting  in  what  you  will 
consider  to  be  female  fineness,  delicacy  and  intuition.  . 

And  this  will  be  your  normal  vision  of  Man.  From  time  to  time 
you  will  be  in  the  quickened  condition  in  which  you  will  really  pay 
some  attention  to  the  idiosyncras"es  of  some  few  particular  men. 
Roughly  speaking,  while  you  are  at  your  boarding  or  your  high 
school  you  will  find  prevailing  among  your  school- fellows  an  ex- 
traordinary, a  vivid  curiosity  not  so  much  regarding  the  nature  of 
men  as  regarding  the  mysteries  of  sex.  This  curiosity  you  may 
or  you  may  not  share,  but  whether  you  share  it  or  no  you  will  have 


be,  so  that  the  figures  I  have  quoted  may  .stand  as  a  convenient  image  for  the 
comprehension  of  an  almo.st  indisputable  fact.  Of  course  the  marriage  age  is 
much  later  in  Germany,  just  as  the  age  of  puberty  arrives  earlier  in  the  more 
Southern  Countries  of  Europe.  But,  one  contention  pulling  one  way  and 
another  another,  the  image  remains  fairly  unaffected. 


-58  The    Little    Review 


no  means  of  satisfying  it.  Your  mother  will  hardly  give  you  any 
details  and  certainly  not  your  father.  In  the  nature  of  things  you 
will  be  kept  more  or  less  rigidly  from  contact  with  the  male  animal 
You  may  or  may  not  know  a  certain  number  of  the  animal  called 
boys.  Possibly,  if  you  go  to  foreign  convent  school  you  may  have 
waved  your  handkerchief  to  the  boys  in  the  gymnasium  opposite 
You  may  have  or  you  may  not,  but  you  will  be  aware  that  some 
such  practice  exists  among  the  more  "fast"  girls  of  the  schools.  But, 
even  supposing  that  a  boy,  having  thrown  a  note  over  the  convent 
wall  or  whatever  happens  to  take  the  place  of  the  convent  wall 
in  surrounding  you  —  and  supposing  that  you  actually  make  the 
acquaintance  of  the  human  boy  you  will  not  really  begin  your  in- 
vestigations of  the  male.  You  will  gather  certain  definite  facts,  such 
as  that  a  boy  will  offer  you  chocolate  creams  that  he  takes  out  of 
his  trouser  pockets.  In  the  same  pocket  he  will  probably  have  a 
large  clasp  knife,  a  ball  of  string,  several  coppers,  a  number  of  horse 
chestnuts  for  playing  the  game  called  conkers  and  several  pieces  of 
slate  pencil.  But  this  will  not  strike  you  as  necessary  evidence  of 
untidy ness,  for  in  your  own  pocket  you  also  will  have  chocolate 
creams,  a  silver  pencil  case,  a  handkerchief,  a  little  note  book,  a 
fountain  pen  and  no  doubt  two  or  three  hair  pins  with  which  you 
will  have  been  making  surreptitious  and  premature  experiments  in 
what  is  known  as  "putting  your  hair  up." 

You  will  hear  from  your  school  mates  that  the  creatures 
called  "Boys"  are  something  different  from  yourself,  but  actually 
you  will  not  observe  much  difference.  You  will  not,  I  mean,  ob- 
serve it  for  yourself.  Of  course  there  will  be  the  obvious  difference 
of  trousers  and  skirts.  But,  if  you  inquire  into  the  differences'^ 
of  life  and  character  —  which  you  will  probably  not  do  —  you  will 
observe  that  the  human  boy  is  very  much  like  yourself.  Nowadays 
he  plays  cricket  when  you  play  cricket  and  football  when  you  play 
hockey.  In  your  classes  you  will  read  precisely  the  same  text  books 
as  he,  you  will  go  in  for  the  same  junior  examinations;  you  will  ] 
bird's  nest  when  he  bird's  nests,  you  will  collect  stamps  when  he 
collects  stamps,  you  will  probably  be  a  little  more  advanced  in  your  \ 
studies.  You  will  probably  be  in  the  lower  fourth  while  he  is  still 
in  the  upper  third.  You  will  probably  hear  with  resentment  that 
he  regards  you  with  traditional  contempt,  saying  that  you  are 
"soft".    You  will  probably  on  these  occasions  want  to  get  at  a  boy 


i! 


The    Little    Review  59 


of  your  own  size  and  weight.  But  on  the  rare  occasions  when  you 
really  do  have  a  fight  with  a  boy  you  will  find  that  you  are  severely 
handicapped.    He  can  always  pull  your  long  hair. 

He  probably  will  pull  your  hair  and  this  is  almost  the  only 
lasting  impression  that  you  will  get  of  the  human  male  until  you 
leave  school.'  You  will  remain  under  that  impression;  it  will  con- 
tinue deep  down  in  you  for  long  afterwards  —  the  impression  that 
boy's  do  not  fight  fair.  I  do  not  know  whether  you  are  in  the  right 
or  in  the  wrong  in  having  this  idea.  It  is,  you  see,  a  matter  of  stand- 
ards. Civilised  nations  do  not  use  dum-dum  bullets  against  civilised 
nations,  but  they  do  against  savages.  And  I  fancy  that  the  nicest 
boy  in  the  world  would  imagine  that  any  girl  who  could  really  tackle 
him  must  be  an  unnatural  sort  of  animal.  He  would  consider  her 
as  a  sort  of  wild  cat,  who  had  to  be  killed  somehow.  Nothing  in 
the  world  would  persuade  this  boy  to  depart  from  the  absolute  strict- 
ness of  the  Queensberry  rules  if  he  were  fighting  against  another 
■boy,  even  if  the  other  boy  were  twice  his  size.  Why  I  remember 
■fighting  an  immense  boy  from  another  school;  he  must  have  been  at 
least  sixteen  when  I  was  twelve.  I  stood  up  and  was  knocked  down. 
But  it  never  entered  my  head  during  the  thirty-five  minutes  that 
the  contest  lasted  that  I  had  such  a  thing  as  feet  or  nails  or  that  he 
had  such  a  thing  as  a  "wind"  beneath  which  to  strike  or  hair  that 
one  could  pull.  I  couldn't  have  done  it;  it  would  have  been  un- 
thinkable. Nevertheless  I  am  quite  certain  that,  had  one  of  my 
female  cousins  of  about  the  same  age  dared  to  stand  up  to  me  I 
should  have  kicked  her. 

So  that,  according  to  his  own  lights  the  boy  who  pulled  your 
hair  probably  considered  that  he  was  fighting  with  a  most  perfect 
fairness.  You  see,  you  were  a  sort  of  outlaw;  a  slave  that  had 
ventured  to  rebel.  Nevertheless  it  is  probable  that,  as  a  result  of 
your  school  experiences  you  carried  tiway,  deep  seated  in  you,  the 
idea  that  the  young  male  creature  does  not  fight  fair.  Then  you 
went  to  Girton  or  to  Newnham.  Here  you  made  acquaintance,  more 
deeply  with  History  which  is  the  history  of  men.  Rioting  through 
the  long  tale  of  this  history  you  perceived  every  kind  of  falsehood, 
every  kind  of  treachery;  every  kind  of  murder,  every  kind  of  greed. 
It  did  not  matter  whether  it  was  the  Biblical  Hebrews  triumphing,  in 
the  name  of  Jehovah,,  by  every  kind  of  fraud,  guile,  deceit  or 
treachery.    It  didn't  matter  whether  it  was  the  Romans  triumphing 


6o  T/te    Little    Review 


[I 


similarly  in  the  name  of  the  God  Quirinus.  It  didn't  matter  whethe 
it  was  the  Danes  murdering  the  Anglo-Saxons  while  they  sat  a 
dinner  with  them:  or  the  Saxons  stabbing  Danes  whilst  they  sat  oi 
horseback  drinking  their  own  guest  cups  before  their  own  door.  Yoi 
perceived  Richard  III  murder  his  nephews;  you  perceived  Henr} 
of  Windsor  murder  wives,  murder  protestants,  murder  Catholics,  ii 
the  name  of  God;  you  perceived  the  Church  of  England  founded  or 
a  king's  desire  for  adultery. 

You  perceived  the  massacres  of  St.  Bartholomew:  you  perceivecl 
all  the  treacheries  of  Marlborough,  of  Conde  of  'i\irenne,  of  Wallen- 1| 
stein,  of  Marshal  Saxe,  of  Frederick  the  Great,  of  Napoleon,  of  Na- 
poleon III  of  Bismark  —  and  even  of  Nelson  in  the  Carracioli  af- 
fair. You  wnll  perceive  divinely  gifted  statesmen  like  Burleigh 
forging  letters,  forging  whole  plots  that  never  existed  in  order  tc 
murder  Queens,  nobles,  priests  and  commoners  who  had  never 
plotted.  Every  unthinkable  wrong  you  will  perceive  to  flourish 
and  to  be  justified  in  the  pages  of  History.  So  you  might  get  some 
idea  of  what  man  is;  for  all  these  things  will  have  been  done  not 
by  your  own  sex  but  by  men.  You  will  read  too  of  Katharine  ofl 
Russia,  of  Katharine  de  Medici,  of  Lucrecia  Borgia,  of  Elizabeth 
of  England  —  and  you  might  reflect  that  your  own  sex  has  produced 
monsters  equalling  Richard  III,  Peter  the  Great  or  Nero.  But 
tfiese  reflections  ■  will  not  enter  you  head  for  at  about  this  time 
you  will  be  getting  ready  to  sing  in  whatever  language  God  has 
given  you:  with  whatever  voice  God  has  blessed  you  —  you  will  be 
getting  ready  to  sing,  to  some  tune  or  other: 

"Er  der  herrlichste  von  alien"  ... 

Then  for  a  time  you  will  really  begin  to  observe  some  of  the^ 
particularities  of  some  member  of  the  opposite  sex.  You  may  not, 
like  the  ecstatic  German  young  lady,  observe  that  he  is  so  mild  and 
so  good;  that  he  has  a  pure'mind,  flashing  eyes,  a  steadfast  in- 
telligence and  a  never  failing  courage.  But  you  will  at  least  observe 
that  he  has  likes  and  dislikes.  He  may  prefer  white  enamelled  walls 
to  Morris  wall  papers.  He  may  prefer  whitebait  to  lobster.  He 
may  prefer  mountains  to  flat  scenery,  Henry  IV.  to  Queen  Elizabeth, 
Velasquez  to  Raphael,  Browning  to  Victor  Hugo  or  Strauss  who 
wrote  "Hie  Blue  Danube"  to  Strau.ss  who  wrote  "Also  sprach  Za- 
rathustra". 

Your  actual  mental  process  will  be  somewhat  as  follows.    You 
will  notice  the  likes  and  dislikes  of  the  man  in  whom  you  are  inter- 


The    Little    Review  6i 


sted.  And  you  will  put  it  down  as  "masculine"  to  like  whitebait, 
lountains  and  Velasquez.  But  that  will  not  make  much  impression 
n  your  underlying  mind  —  the  mind  that  tells  you  that  all  men 
ave  inherited  the  characteristics  that  your  mother  ascribed  to  your 
ather. 

The  period  of  courtship  being  accompanied  by  various  derange- 
ments of  the  nerves  that  are  due  to  material  and  physical  conditions, 
ou  will  observe  in  your  man  certain  greater  or  less  manifestations 
f  irritability  and  of  unreasonableness.  You  will  also  observe,  if  he 
at  all  worth  having  as  a  suitor,  a  tendency  to  grandiloquence,  to 
(oastfulness  that  almost  amounts  to  megalomania.  He  will  offer 
'OU  the  stars,  a  peerage  or  an  illustrious  future  such  as  his  present 
ircumstances  render  in  no  way  probable.  You  will  as  likely  as  not 
leduce  from  this  fact  the  generalization  that  all  men  are  boastful 
»r  at  least  are  visionary  creatures.  Or  it  might  be  more  exact  to 
ay  that  your  lover's  charming  visions,  chronic  as  they  are  to  such  a 
)eriod  of  human  existence  —  that  these  visions  you  will  not  im- 
nediately  notice  as  displeasing.  On  the  contrary  you  will  probably 
ike  them.  But  later  in  life  when  the  poor  man  does  not  bring  the 
itars,  the  peerage  or  even  the  bowser  of  bliss,  you  will  confirm  in 
ronr  own  mind  the  generally  accepted  dictum  of  your  sex  — -  that 
ill  men  are  outrageously  boastful.  And,  when  that  normal  state  has 
)nce  more  reasserted  itself,  on  every  occasion  in  which  the  poor  man 
'ails  to  carry  out  any  plan,  even  if  it  be  a  half- formed  plan,  you 
vill  add  one  more  instance  to  the  others.  ,  Supposing,  that  upon  the 
Vlonday  he  says  that  it  would  be  nice  to  go  to  the  theatre  on  Fri- 
iay.  Supposing  that  when  Friday  comes  he  finds  himself  detained  at 
;he  office  by  a  piece  of  work  that  v/ill  enable  him  to  add  the  £4,000 
:o  your  common  stock.  Or  supposing  that  in  January  he  says  that 
le  will  take  you  to  the  -Riviera  in  November,  whereas  in  November 
lis  uncle  dies,  leaving  him  the  heir  to  a  large  estate  so  that  he 
las  to  stop  in  England  to  arrange  for  the"  funeral  and  the  succession 
kities.  What  will  be  your  state  of  mind?  It  will  be  as  follows 
:o  all  intents  and  purposes.  You  will  not  particularly  observe 
hat  your  man  has  gained  the  £  4.000  or  the  succession 
0  t  he  estate.  In  your  mind  that  will  be  perfectly  normal 
md  no  more  than  you  had  expected  of  him.  But  the  fact 
hat  he  didn't  take  you  to  that  theatre  on  the  Friday  or  to  the 
Riviera  in  November  —  those  facts  will  remain  in  your  mind. 
They  will  go  to  building  up  one  large  proposition  —  that  all  men 


62  The  Little  Review 


are  unreliable.  Perhaps  your  own  particular  man  will  not  leave  hi 
slippers  in  the  drawing  room.  But  that  you  will  regard  as  an 
ception.  Perhaps  even  he  will  make  a  wonderfully  brilliant  care 
But  the  most  brilliant  of  careers  comes  so  slowly  and  seems 
natural  in  its  coming  that  you  will  hardly  observe  it.  You  will 
engaged  on  a  long  journey  through  the  deserts  of  life  with  this  soli 
tary  companion.  You  will  remember  as  a  rule  when  he  fails  ti 
please  you  and  you  will  put  that  down  to  his  sex.  On  the  othe 
hand  you  will  ignore  the  fact  that  he  keeps  you  throughout  you 
life  in  a  standard  of  very  decent  comfort  that  you  do  nothing  ii 
the  world  to  earn.  You  will  ignore  the  fact  that  he  is  frequenth 
kind,  generous,  considerate  and  even  delicate  in  his  attentions  t( 
you.  Hje  may  bring  you  a  bunch  of  violets  every  evening  on  hii 
return  from  work.  He  may  present  you  with  a  valuable  bracele" 
on  every  anniversary  of  your  wedding  day.  He  may  deprive  him- 
self for  life  of  the  pleasure  of  listening  to  music  because  music  give! 
you  a  headache.  But  all  these  things  you  w'ill  say  are  just  his  duty-; 
you  will  pay  no  attention  to  them.  But  supposing  that  he  shoulc 
ever  omit  any  one  of  these  things.  Then  immediately  you  woulc 
say: 

"He  is  like  all  the  rest  of  his  sex  —  utterly  unrefined." 
And  what  you  will  mean  is  that  he  has  no  sense  of  d'*scernmeni 
or  he  would  have  known  how  bitterly  your  delicate  female  soul 
would  be  grieved  by  his  omitting  to  bring  you  that  bunch  of  violets. 
Of  course,  during  all  this  time  he  will  be  doing  exactly  the  same 
by  you  and,  if  you  are  not  exceptionally  lucky,  you  will  find  that 
by  the  time  you  have  been  married  15  years  there  will  have  grown 
up  between  you  a  sort  of  dull,  uninterested  sex  bitterness  so  that 
whatever  your  man  may  do  to  irritate  you,  you  will  say: 

"What  can  you  expect?  He  is  a  man."  And  whatever  you  may 
do  to  irritate  him  he  will  say: 

"What  can  you  expect?  She  is  a  woman."  Whereas  actually 
since  God  made  us  all  and  the  world  is  a  trying  place  we  are  most 
of  us  poor  people  trying  to  make  the  best  of  a  bad  job.      , 

Of  course,  in  making  the  foregoing  projection  I  have  had  to 
fix  my  "You"  in  some  sort  of  class  position  and  nation.  And,  as 
presumably  most  of  my  readers  will  approximate  to  the  English 
more  or  less  comfortable  and  moer  or  less  cultured  classes,  I  have 
spoken  of  you  as  if  you  belonged  to  those  classes.     But,  with  the 


65  y( 


teon 


lie! 
m 


The    Little    Review  63 


lecessary  changes  in  sums  of  money,  in  the  names  of  educational 
stablishments  and  of  the  times  of  Hfe  something  very  similar  could 
36  written  of  almost  every  class  and  of  almost  every  country  of 
vestern  Europe.  You  may  not  go  to  Girton,  you  may  go  instead  to 
I  college  for  shorthand  or  into  domestic  service:  you  may  become 
he  secretary  to  a  poet  or  a  waitress  in  a  restaurant.  And  these 
iianges  may  work  very  wide  alterations  in  your  pyschology.  But 
they  will  only  do  this  if  you  are  altogether  an  exception.  For  un- 
less you  are  such  an  exception  your  daily  work  will  dull  and  obscure 
j^our  faculties  of  observation. 

Let  us  suppose  that  you  are  a  waitress  in  a  city  tea-shop.  Upon 
the  face  of  it  one  might  imagine  that  you  would  acquire  an  ex- 
traordinary knowledge  of  masculine  idiosyncrasies  but  you  will  not. 
All  that  you  will  acquire  is  the  knowledge  of  the  outsides  of  a  num- 
ber of  gentlemen,  one  of  whom  you  will  almost  certainly  marry 
before  you  have  been  a  year  at  work.  * 

And  as  a  matter  of  fact  though  these  waitresses  see  a  perpetual 
stream  of  men  their  generalizations  are  almost  invariably  much 
more  rapid  than  those  of  the  average  child  in  a  convent.  I  have 
taken  the  trouble  to  talk  to  a  number  of  girls  of  this  class  and  the 
most  original  observation  that  I  gathered  upon  the  subject  was! 

"Gentlemen  are  so  impatient!"  And  this  was  from  a  handsome 
young  lady  who  had  sat  on  the  marble  table,  looking  over  her  shoul- 
der at  me  and  telling  me  how  much  or  how  little  she  liked  the 
various  musical  comedies  that  were  running  in  London  at  that 
time.  This  agreeable  conversation  had  lasted  six  minutes  by  the 
clock  when  a  tired  clerk  sitting  opposite  us  rang  the  bell  on  his 
table  with  considerable  energy.  Then  my  handsome  young-  friend 
slipped  down  from  my  table  and  strolled  disdainfully  in  his  direc- 
tion, remarking  as  she  went: 

"Gentlemen  are  so  impatient!  What  does  he  want  to  ring  his 
bell  like  that  for?" 

Of  course  it  is  very  possible  that  this  comparatively  sexless 
intercourse  between  the  sexes  may  lead  to  more  rational  views  in 
these  matters.     In  one  way  and  another  I  have  employed  a  large 


*  The  statistics  of  one  of  the  great  London  Tea  Companies  show  that  their 
waitresses — to  the  extent  of  92^ — marry  customers  within  twelve  months  of 
their  engagement. 


64  T/ie    Little    Review 


number  of  female  secretaries  and  1  have  had  at  one  time  and  anothei 
a  large  number  of  friends  who  employed  such  helps  in  their  daily 
work.     And  I  have  found  almost  invariably  that,  though  the  quite 
untried  members  of  this  class  --  those  who  came  to  me  or  to  my 
friends  as  a  first  engagement  —  altho\igh  these  manifested  the  usual 
feminine  haliit  of  dividing  mankind  into  ''gentlemen"  and  ladies,' 
as  the  years  Avent  on  or  even  as  the  weeks  went  on  these  mental 
divisions  faded  away  in  their  minds  so  that  the  most  experienced 
secretary  that  I  ever  employed  —  one  that  had  served  from  fifteen 
to  twenty  writers  of  both  sexes  —  had  practically  forgotten  that 
there  was  any  difference  between  the  sexes.     Some  writers  wrote 
faster  than  others;  some  had  given  her  only  notes  for  the  letters  she 
had  had  to  take  down:  others  had  dictated  them  word  for  word:  some 
had  given  her  good  lunches,  some  bad,  some  none  at  all.     But  she 
was  not  prepared  in  the  least  to  differentiate  between  the  men  and 
the  women  as  regards  such  things  as  mental  or  physical  tidyness. 
Of  course  some  of  the  men  had  tried  to  make  love  to  her,  but  that 
was  practically  the  whole  difference,  as  it  is  to  my  mind,  the  whole 
real  difference  between  the  sexes.    And.  in  the  few  male  secretaries 
I  have  known  who  acted  both  for  men  and  women  they  have  always 
told  me  that  exacth'  the  same  impression  remained  in  their  minds. 
There  was  for  instance  Mr.  A  who  has  acted  as  secretary  to 
four  women  writers  and  journalists  and  to  three  men,  as  well  as  in 
two  political  households  where  both  husband  and  wife  used  him  I 
for  their  social  and  political  correspondence.    Mr.  A.  was  of  opinion  i, 
that  in  all  matters  connected  with  their  work  the  six  women  were  all  '* 
of  them  more  business-like,  more  regular  in  their  hours  and  Ipss  er    i 
ratic  than  the  three  solitary  men  for  whom  he  had  worked.    These  f 
three  men  were,  two  of  them  authors  and  the  third  a  stock  broker,  ( 
The  stock  broker  was  a  hopeless  case  —  nervous,  irritable,  incon-  | 
siderate  and  as  childishly  vain  as  a  fashionable  pianist.    In  one  of 
the  lockers  at  his  office  this  gentleman  kept  a  complete  assortmentv* 
of  toilet  superfluities  —  curling  tongs  and  pomades  for  his  mous-1 
tache,  sets  of  manicure  implements  and  even  a  pair  of  stays,  fort 
such  occasions  as  when  he  was  forced  to  dress  at  his  office  for  a  cityl 
dinner.    The  stock  broker,  in  fact,  exactly  resembled  what  is  called]! 
a  spoiled  woman.     But  he  was  the  only  person  of  Mr.  A's  eleven, ' 
whose  identity  really  stuck  out  in  Mr.  A's  mind.    The  other  ten  were! 

i 


TheLittleReview  65 


ust  people.  Of  course  they  were  moderately  distinguished  or  they 
vould  not  have  needed  to  employ  Mr.  A.  And  being  moderately 
listinguished  people  they  had  of  course  their  idiosyncrasies.  One 
)f  the  male  politicians  suffered  very  badly  from  headaches,  and 
)ne  of  the  woman  writers  smoked  more  perpetually  than  any  man 
VIr.  A,  had  ever  met.  But,  in  the  whole  ruck  of  them  they  were 
ust  people. 

I  do'  not  wish  to  build  too  much  upon  these  particular  instances, 
>r  rather,  I  do  not  wish  to  avoid  looking  in  the  face  certain  object- 
iions  that  may  be  made  to  them  as  instances  going  to  confirm  the 
heory  that  by  this  time  I  must  have  made  obvious  to  my  reader, 
he  theory  is  that  instead  of  this  Western  world  being  made  up  of 
wo  opposmg  bands,  distinguished  from  each  other  in  morals,  ethics, 
oints  of  view,  habits  of  mind  and  ideas  of  honour  and  dishonour 
that  we  are  all  just  people,  distinguished  from  each  other  by  th? 
Ifunctions  that  we  perform  in  society.    Let  me  put  the  idea  in  as 
jconcrete  a  form  as  is  practicable.     Consider,  let  us  say  an  English 
usiness  woman.     She  will  be  much  more  like  an  English  man  of 
business  in  her  habits  and  her  outlook  than  a  German  man  of  busi- 
5  engaged  in  the  same  type  of  work.    That  is  to  say  that,  sup- 
ping the  pursuits  of  the  individuals  to  be  the  same,  the  differences 
;\veen  national  characterist'cs  will  be  much  greater  than  the  dif- 
:  i  ence  between  the  sexes.     And  if  this  is  the  case  —  I  shall  of 
course  return  to  these  matters  more  fully  later  on  —  if  this  be  the 
case,  then,  the  difference  between  the  sexes  must  be  very  small  in 
all  the  aspects  of  life  that  are  not  immediately  sexual  or  connected 
with  sex  passions.     Roughly  speaking,  what  I  mean  to  say  is,  that, 
what  we  have  always  been  taught  to  regard  as  the  difference  be- 
tween sexes  is  very  little  more  actually  than  the  difference  between 
employments.    And  this  is  true  in  the  popular  point  of  view  —  for 
few  men  will  deny  that  barbers  or  waiters  are  just  as  effeminate  as 
any  woman. 

{To  be  continued) 


^ 

THE    STRADIVARIUS   OF    PIANOS 

i}ln0ini&lfmnliii& 

313    FIFTH   AVENUE                                  | 

NEW   YORK                                      1 

^ 

THE  BERLITZ  SCHOOL  OF  LANGUAGES   ( 

Head  Office  —New  York,  28-30  West  34th  Street] 
Brooklyn  218-220  Livingston  Street 

Washington,    Philadelphia,    Baltimore,    Boston,    Chicago,    Pittsburgh,    Detroit, 

Orange,    Paris,    London,    Petrograd,    Rome,    Madrid,    Lisbon,    Brussels, 

Geneva,   Havana,   Buenos  Aires,   Rio  Janeiro,  Montevideo,  Cairo, 

Algiers,    Christiania,    Amsterdam,    Copenhagen,    Etc. 

OVER  300   BRANCHES    IN   THE   LEADING   CITIES   of   THE  WORLf)' 

PUPILS    TRAVELING    MAY    TRANSFER    THE    VALUE    OF    TIIEJR 
LESSONS   TO   ANY   OTHER   BERLITZ   SCHOOL 

SUPERIOR  NATIVE  TEACHERS 

By   the    Berlitz   Method   Students  learn   not   only  to  read  and  write,    but   also 
to    UNDERSTAND    and    to    SPEAK    the    foreign    languages. 

Terms  may  be  begun  at  any  time  —  Trial   Lesson  free 

Lessons  Privately  and  in  Classes,  Day 
and  Evenings^  at  School  or  Residence 

RECENT  AWARDS: 

Paris   Exposition,    1900,    Gold    Medals;    Lille   Exposition.    J902,    Grand    Prize; 

Zurich    Exposition,    1902,    Gold    Medal;    St.    Louis    Exposition,    1904, 

Grand   Prize;    Liege  Exposition,   190.'i,   Grand    Prize;    London 

Exposition,   1908,  Grand   Prize;    Brussels   1910,  Hors 

Concours;    Turin    1911,    Hors    Concours. 


