o 

u 

s 


^ 

«< 


Library  of 
Brown  University 


HARRIS  COLLECTION 

OF  AMERICAN  POETRY   AND  PLAYS 


o 

3 


« 
p 


WHiitmaii  Collection 


T<H,.  {^.  'I'  f 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH  THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


"THE  IDEAL  GIANT" 

by 
Wyndham  Lewis 


THE    LITTLE  REVIE'V 


THE    MAGAZINE    THAT,  IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  THE  OTHERS 


MAY,  1918 

The  Ideal  Giant  Wyndham  Lei 

Poems :  Ezra  Pou 

Homage  a  la  Langue  d'Or 

Moeurs  Contemporaines 
Ulysses,  III  James  Joy 

Nocturne  Ben  Hec 

Imaginary  Letters,  X  Ezra  Pou 

Women  and  Men,  IV  Ford  Madox  Huef] 

The  Reader  Critic 
Announcement 

Copyright,    1918,    by   Margaret  Anderson 

MARGARET  ANDERSON,   Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

24  IVest  Sixteenth  Street,  Nezv  York 

Foreign  office : 

5  lioUand  Place  Chanihers,  London  W.  8. 

25  cents  a  copy  $2.50  a  year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  O.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


1 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  Mf.  '      MAY,   1918  No.  1 

THE   IDEAL  GIANT 

Wyndham    Lewis 

The  Action  occurs  in  tJie  Restaurant  Gamhetta,  in  German  Lon- 
don, in  October,  19 14.  Belgian  "refugees"  have  found  it  out  in 
numbers;  the  poor  ones  do  not  get  so  far.  These  people  are  very 
composed. 

The  Restaurant  is  French  in  its  staff  and  traditions.  An  Aus- 
trian, at  present,  keeps  it. 

A  cream-lace  curtain,  hanging  from  brass  hooks,  runs  all  along 
its  face,  shoulder  high. 

A  very  large  brass  vase  in  the  middle,  and  a  Russian  wood- 
painting  of  a  Virgin  and  Child  on  narrow  wall  between  the  two  win- 
dows, gives  the  German  cidtured  touch. 

The  peculiar  situation  of  this  Restaurant  makes  it  indispensable 
to  a  few  people. 

The  Proprietor  is  interesting. 

The  Proprietor  follows  his  stomach  about  the  Restaurant  con- 
stantly while  the  Action  is  proceeding,  playing  with  it  like  a  large 
ball.  He  comes  right  up  to  John  Porter  Kemp  often  and  then  at 
the  last  moment  whisks  it  aivay,  and  wheels  in  another  direction, 
head  thrown  back,  with  heroic  contraction  of  brows  like  a  Russian 
dancer. 

FIRST    SCENE. 

Characters  : 

Mr.  John  Fingal. 

Mr.    John   Porter    Kemp. 


The    Little    Review 


The  Restaurant  is  behind  the  two  central  figures  in  each  scene. 
The  dialogues  occur  in  a  Utile  brightly-lighted  box  at  the  front  of 
the  stage.  It  is  a  recess  at  the  back  of  the  Restaurant,  which  is  seen 
behind  it  in  a  perfectly  square  frame  made  by  the  limits  of  the  re- 
cess. The  box-like  recess  is  painted  shiny  white  with  large  brass 
hooks  to  the  left  for  the  coats. 

It  is  sanitary,  doll-like  and  conventional. 

FhigaVs  sienna  brown  suit,  and  Kemp's  rather  vivid  blue,  under 
the  bright  electric  light,  and  Miss  Godd's  green  jersey  in  T,rd  scene, 
add  to  the  appearance  of  freshness  and  artificial  bloom. 

SCENE    I. 

Mr.  John  Fingal  is  found  seated  at,  table,  on  left-hand  side, 
Ms  right-hand  profile  to  you.    He  is  reading  a  green  evening  paper. 

Mr.  John  Fingal  is  a  robust,  un-English-looking  Adonis,  like 
rank  and  file  stocky  Paris  cubist;  jowl,  phlegm,  professional  classes. 
He  is  thirty-six,  a  solid  adventurer,  studying  art.  He  does  a  little 
dealing.  He  is  flippant,  and  methodically  aggressive  in  a  snobbish 
way.  He  sees  himself  as  "fine  old  gentleman,"  tres  fin;  also  as  a 
beautiful  young  man,  the  memory  of  personal  triumphs  at  Cam- 
bridge maintained. 

He  likes  speaking  French.  He  does  so  with  careful  clumsiness 
and  only  so  m^uch  attempt  at  a  good  accent  as  is  compatible  with 
dignity  and  comfort. 

The  tables  beyond  in  the  body  of  the  Restaurant  are  occupied 
by  various  people,  chiefly  Belgians. 

John  Porter  Kemp  comes  in  from  street  at  far  end  of  stage. 
He  is  tall,  dog-lean,  in  first  bloom  of  middle  age. 

He  is  a  writer;  journalism  takes  up  most  of  his  time. 

(Red-haired  people  seem  mongrels— common  to  every  country, 
like  women.  Kemp's  is  a  shabby  strong  mixture,  giving  him  rather 
a  colonial  entree  into  the  civilised  world.  It  carries  him  back,  down 
the  ages,  in  any  case,  in  an  energetic  -^ancestral  trail,  without  the 
interruptions  you  must  always  count  on  with  colourless  crops.) 

Fingal  looks  up  toward  back  of  stage,  and  with  immediate 
concentration  makes  a  sign  to  Kemp,  and  kicks  the  chair  back  on 
the  other  side  of  the  table. 

Fingal.    Hallo.    Come  here,  have  lunch  here — 


The    Little    Review 


Kemp.    Goodmorning.    What's  the  news  ? 
FiNGAL.    In  here,  do  you  mean? 

{Fingal  shakes  the  paper.) 
Kemp.    Yes. 

{Kemp  sits  down.     He  does  not  prune  himself,  rub 
rub  his  cheeks  or  hands,  or  stretch  his  eyelids.    He  looks 
at  Menu.) 
Fingal.     Oh.     I  don't  know.    M>uch  the  same. 
Kemp.    You've  seen  the  Goeben's  been  doing  something  again? 

(Fingal  glances  across  paper). 
Fingal.    Yes. 

(Kemp  orders  his  dinner.    A  duck  and  potatoes  and 
salsije  arrive  for  Fingal.    Kemp  stares  at  the  Belgians  at 
the  back  of  the  Restaurant,  his  large  raw  eye  full  of 
pleasure,  like  a  golden  pdtine.) 
Fingal.    Did  you  get  that  book  alright  ? 
Kemp.  Yes.    They  hadn't  got  it  at  the  Times  Book  Club.     I 
went  to  the  Figaro.    They  got  it  for  me.    What  a  nice  family  that 
is  over  there!     How  shiny  their  faces  are!     They  really  are  nice 
greasy  lumps. 

(Finga  looks  round  at  Belgian  family,  sees  what 

he    expected    after    a    minute,    and    laughs.     Kemp 

turns  back  to  the  table.) 

Kemp.     I  wish  we  were  more  like  that.     At  least  I  wish  we 

had  that  air  of  being  in  a  tavern  they  have;  or  just  come  out  of  a 

heavy  bedroom,  like  immense  dolls  out  of  the  box  of  an  erotic  game. 

They  don't  mind  dying  as  much  as  we  do,  because  their  blood  is 

the  same  oil  as  the  Earth's.    With  them  continiiity  is  not  so  broken 

by  demise. 

Fingal.    You  are  romancing. 

Kemp.  Of  course  I'm  not.  Look  at  Cezanne's  race  and  then 
look  at  us.  See  how  much  harder  they  work  at  getting  their  chil- 
dren! Their  pictures,  too.  But  it  doesn't  show  so  much  in  our 
children. 

Fingal.    Do  they?    I  should  have  thought 

Kemp.  They  are  much  more  like  the  things  they  eat.  They 
all  have  a  good  deal  of  pig,  horse  and  dog  in  them.  They  yap  and 
snort  and  their  noses  sniff  and  twitch. 

_  Fingal.    Do  you  want  to  be  like  a  pig? 


The    Little    Review 


Kemp.    It  might  imprvoe  me.    I  should  be  willing  to  try  it. 
{They  laugh  with  indulgence  and  digestive  grace.) 
FiNGAL.    Are  you  doing  much  work?     I  saw  you  were  writing 
in  the  London  Monthly  the  other  day.    I  intended  to  get  it. 

Kemp.  Yes.  There's  no  reviewing  now,  during  the  war.  I 
shall  have  to  turn  strategist,  I  suppose.  I  shall  not  make  a  good  one. 
I  can  never  make  head  or  tail  of  what  they're  doing  over  there. 

FiNGAL.     Aren't  they  going  to  begin  to  print  other  news  again 
soon? 

Kemp.      Heaven  knows. 

{A  duck  and  boiled  potatoes  and  salifers  arrive  for 
Kemp:  a  bottle  of  Teinach.  Fingal's  are  taken  away; 
The  gargon  is  built  compactly  for  body  service.  His  eyes 
are  round  and  blue,  and  bring  to  mind  Swiss  Lakes  and 
mean  popidar  sentimentalities.  He  is  your  respectful 
friend  and  abject  servant.  He  bends'  down  and  advises 
with  a  candour  and  carefulness  that  makes  you  turn  your 
head  away.  He  stares  into  the  distance  when  he  is  not' 
busy.  This  is  his  menial  cachet.) 
Kemp.  I  wonder  if  any  of  these-  Belgians  have  been  ruined? 
I  expect  it  is  chiefly  the  working  people  who  have  been  done  for. 

FiNGAL.  I  tried  to  get  a  Refugee  the  other  day  to  come  and 
work  for  me.  My  little  servant  girl  is  going  away.  I  couldn^t  find 
one  for  love  or  money. 

Kemp.  I  suppose  the  poor  ones  get  looked  after,  and  drafted 
off  as  soon  as  they  arrive. 

(A  Peche  Melba  is  brought  for  Fingal.) 
Kemp.    What  is  that?     Peche  Melba?    I  must  have  that.    Al- 
bert!    A  Peche  Melba. 

FjNGAL.    Our  friend  Radac  here  is  pretty  busy. 
Kemp.     If  things  become  very  bad  I  shall  get  Radac  to  take 
me  on  as  gargon.    I  should  enjoy  inducting  food  into  those  mouths. 
{A  Peche  Melba  is  brought  to  Kemp.) 
FiNGAL.     Miss  Godd  was  here  yesterday. 
Kemp.    Was  she?     But  damn  Miss  Godd. 
Fingal.     Damn  Miss  Godd?     She  was  here  about  two.     Just 
after  you'd  gone. 

Kemp.    I  know  .  I  saw  her  last  night. 

{Fingal  smiles,   but  keeps  temperately  within   that 
demonstration.     Miss  Godd  is  a  mystery.     Fingal  has 


The    Little    Review 


not  been  asked  to  meet  her.  He  does  not  know  in  what 
relation  Miss  Godd  and  Kemp  stand  to  each  other.  He 
sees  them  at  the  Restaurant  gesticulating  in  the  distance. 
Kemp  does  not  encourage  communication  on  the  subject 
of  his  friend.  Kemp  .exaggerates  his  appetite.  Nature 
with  him  substituted  food  for  drink  as  a  stimidant.  A 
little  food  is  enougJi.  He  has  not  a  strong  head.  Ren- 
dered abnormally  communicative  and  aggressive  by  the 
duck  and  other  food,  his  eye  more  and  more  often  ap- 
proaches Fingal,  with  a  progressive  ritual  like  that  of  a 
large  fly.  At  last  it  settles  full  in  the  middle  of  his  face. 
In  a  few  minutes  he  is  grinning  at  him,  talking,  tivitching 
his  great  animal's  nose  as  though  it  had  been  surrounded 
by  Grauben  gnats.) 

Kemp.    Do  you  sleep  well? 

Fingal.  Not  really  well.  I  vary.  I  sometimes  sleep  for  eight 
hours  right  off,  sometimes  only  four.  My  average  is  a  bit  below  the 
necessary,  I  should  say. 

{This  punctilious  answer  was  in  order  to  save  time, 
and  ivas  the  result  of  experience  of  Kemp.  Kemp  and 
FingalVs  talks  resembled  those  arranged  between  the  Pro- 
prietor of  the  Circus  and  the  Clown.  Fingal  would  dis- 
play the  meticulous  credulity  of  the  toff  in  evening  dress. 
Kemp  does  not  want  to  know,  however,  about  Fingal's 
powers  of  sleep.  It  is  one  of  his  feints.  This  is  his  way 
of  "working!  ) 
■  Kemp.    Are  you  sensitive  about  your  shell? 

Fingal.    No.    No. 

Kemp.    The  husk  you  shed  at  night? 

Fingal.    Ah.    No. 

(Kemp  pulls  his  chair  forwctrd  a  little  and  leans 
across  the  table.  He  constantly  shoots  his  eye  up,  while 
speaking,  at  an  imaginary  third  person  in  the  middle  dis- 
tance. Sometimes  he  fixes  this  myth  ivith  his  blank  red- 
rimmed  disk  of  an  eye,  and  stops  his  discourse.  Or  he 
will  lower  his  voice  as  though  to  prevent  this  third  per- 
son form  overhearing  his  most  harmless  remarks.) 

Kemp  .  Life  for  some  people  is  full  of  the  nuisance  of  symme- 
tries and  forms.    When  you  put  your  pen  down,  do  you  begin  wor- 


The    Little    Review 


rying  about  its  position  in  relation  to  the  inkpot? 
FiNGAL.    I  can't  say  I  do. 

Kemp.  Some  people — have  a  certain  personal  arrangement 
with  their  clothes  at  night.  This  is  very  common.  I,  for  myself, 
have  to  tie  my  bootlaces  symmetrically.  Have  you  never  stepped 
in  every  second  or  third  stone  of  a  pavement,  and  been  afflicted  if 
you  were  compelled  to  miss  one?  I  know  a  man  who  walked  all 
the  way  back  from  Oxford  Circus  to  Waring  and  Gillows  to  plant 
his  foot  on  a  stone  he  had  been  compelled  to  miss! 
FiNGAL.  That  is  bad  neurasthenia,  isn't  it? 
Kemp.  Of  course.  And  therefore  should  be  fought  and  broken 
up  from  time  to  time.  ^ 

FiNGAL.    I  agree  with  you. 

{Kemp  sits  back  in  his  chair  as  though  his  holt  were 
shot,  and  the  argument  closed.    This  is  more  feinting  ctnd 
personal  play  of  his  high-spirits.    He  then  comes  forward 
again  in  his  chair.) 
Kemp.    Truth,  at  all  events,  is  a  thing  like  that.    Our  truth- 
fulness.    Some  people — ^have  an  uneasiness  and  sense  of  something 
wrong,  out  of  place,  crying  to  be  put  right,  if  they  have  been  com- 
pelled or  have  elected  to  tell  an  untruth.    Ther  is  something  in  such 
and  such  a  person's  mind,  placed  there  by  \hem,  that  should  not  be 
there.    Or  it  should  not  be  there  in  that  form.    It  is  "the  thing  which 
is  not"  "of  the  Horses. 

(Kemps  draws  a  cigar  out  of  his  pocket,  cuts  the  end 
off,  and  lights  it.) 
Kemp.  This  meticulous  sense  will  induce  a  man  to  describe 
very  carefully  something  he  has  seen,  if  he  describe  it  at  all,  and  to 
suffer  if,  from  laziness  or  other  motive,  he  has  slurred  or  misrepre- 
sented. This  is  the  common  base  of  wisdom  and  beauty.  It  is  the 
famous  generic  madness  at  the  bottom  of  genius. 

It  is  the  madness  known  as  "Exactitude"  in  America. 

(Kemp  fixes  Fingal  with  his  eye.  Ancient  Mariner 

fashion,  and  shows  him  by  a  pause,  that  the  preamble  is 

over.     He  takes  several  deep  breaths,  inhaling  his  very 

bad  cigar.    Fingal  disturbs  the  manoeuvring  of  his  eye.) 

Fingal.  V/hat  would  the  clever  Horses  find  to  call  your  stories? 

Those  "things  that  are  not"  fill  your  brains. 

Kemp.    The  transference  is  so  complete  in  creative  life  of  any 


The    Little    Review 


sort.  Reality  is  the  "thing  which  is  not,"  for  the  creative  artists. 
An  artist  would  have  precisely  that  feeling  of  "malaise"  and  disgust 
if  he  had  put  in  another  man's  head  the  real  truth — the  actual  biolo- 
gical appearance  of  Nature,  that  my  ideally  truthful  man  would  feel 
if  he  had  lied. 

FiNGAL.  The  arranging  of  the  clothes;  or  the  symmetry  -of 
the  bootlace;  is  a  sign  of  a  feeling  for  order.  Whereas  the  squeam- 
ishness  about  "the  truth"  in  another  man's  head  is  a  slavish  timidity. 
Kemp.  I  don't  think  so.  I  don't  see  the  contradiction.  In  the 
sphere  of  practical  life  it  is  essential  to  have  facts.  People  can 
only  base  their  actions  on  facts.  If  you  put  in  a  person's  head  some- 
thing purporting  to  be  a  fact,  which  is  not  a  fact,  it  is  liable  to  cause 
the  utmost  confusion  and  disorder. 

But  the  point  for  my  argument  is  the  physical  uneasiness  about 
this  thing  said,  whether  fact  or  not,  the  "hallucination  of  the  Ob- 
ject." 

The  "truth"  is  only  another  way  of  saying  "the  substantial." 
In  life  the  "substantial"  is  the  "fact." 

FiNGAL.    I'm  afraid  I  don't  see  what  you're  driving  at. 

{Gruff  and  cold  contemplation  jrom  the  lofty  general 
entrenched  beside  Kemp's  nose,  conducting  the  affairs  of 
the  world,  ensues.  The  eye  sweeps  over  Fingal  slowly  like  a 
searchlight.) 
Kemp.    Do  you  tell  many  lies? 

{Kemp  fixes  his  eye  stonily.) 
Fingal   {grinning).     Sometimes.     But  I'm  a  particular  man. 
I  am  an  esprit  d'ordre. 

Kemp.    I  am  the  same.     I  am  the  same — I  never  lie — 

{Kemp  beams,  in  sudden  immense  thawing.    A  pause, 
in  which  Kvmp' inundates  Fingal  with  smiles  of  nauseating 
richness.    Reneived  pretence  that  this  is  the  bourne  of  his 
argument:  namely,  that  he  never  tells  lies.) 
Fingal.     Garqon.     L'Addition  s'il  vous  plait. 

{Fingal  accepts  this  feint,  and  prepares  to  break  up 
the  seance.     The  waiter  comes,  and  stooping  down  to  the 
table,  makes  up  the  bill.) 
Waiter.     Attendez.    II  y  avait  deux  legumes. 
Fingal.    Oui.    Un  salsifes. 
Waiter.    Oh  yes.     Salsifes.    Thank  you  Mr.  Fingal. 


The    Little    Review 


{Fingal  pays  the  bill,  but  does  not  at  once  get  up. 

Kemp  leans  jorward  and  puts  his  hand  on  Fingal's  arm.) 

Kemp.    To-day  I  have  been  lying  steadily  ever  since  I  got  up. 

The  last  two  or  three  times  we've  met,  I  have  told  you  several  lies; 

which  you  did  not  notice. 

I  feel  as  though  I  should  never  tell  the  truth  again. 

(Kemp  sits  back  and  stares  at  Fingal.) 
Fingal.    I  noticed  all  your  lies,  and  was  distressed. 
Kemp.    That  is  not  true. 

Fingal.  Oh  yes.  Perfectly.  You  told  me  you  paid  twopence 
each  for  those  cigars. 

Kemp.    Well,  so  I  did. 

Fingal.  Am  I  to  take  that  as  a  lie;  or,  to  put  it  another  way, 
regard  it  as  a  proof,  under  the  circumstances,  that  you  did  not  pay 
that  for  them? 

Kemp.    I  paid  twopence  for  this  excellent  cigar. 

{Kemp  holds  it  up,  and  blows  out  his  gingercrearjt 
cheeks  at  its  gilded  label.) 

Fingal.    Then  why  did  you  tell ? 

{Kemp  springs  up  and  calls  the  waiter.) 
Kemp.    Bring  me  a  "Flor  de  Cijas". 

{He  throws  his  cigar  away,  sits  down  and  holds  up  his 
finger,  then  hooks  it  over  his  nose.     He  has  seen  some  jat 
mid-European  man  with  a  cigar  do  this,  and  the  fact  of 
his  smoking  a  cigar,  habit  to  which  he  has  lately  tdken, 
suggests  this  action. 
Kemp.    I  am  found  out.    This  will  not  make  me  downhearted. 
As  a  matter  of  fact  I  do  not  mind  being  found  out.    That  is  not  ma- 
terial.   I  am  not  setting  out  to  deceive,  but  only  to  cure  myself  of  a 
superstition  and  rigid  manner  of  feeling. 

{While  hanlding  Radac's  much  more  satisfactory  ci- 
gar, Kemp  explains  his  latest  regimen.) 
Kemp.     For  instance,  this  arm  of  mine  attracted  attention  this 
morning. 

{His  arm  is  bandaged,  and  cased  in  a  black  leather  trough 
which  he  takes  off  to  eat.     Kemp  is  getting  over  blood- 
poisoning  in  the  wrist  and  forearm.) 
Kemp.     I  posed  as  a  Mons  hero,  with  this,  yesterday  evening, 
in  a  pub.    It  was  a  triumph  for  me.    Education  and  natural  integrity 


The    Little    Review 


revolt  against  that  stupid  action.  We  will  admit  it  is  not  in  my  line. 
But  I  am  too  shy.  Such  things  are  excellent  discipline.  They 
harden,  humble  and  invigorate.  They  are  a  medicine  made  up 
of  the  acrid  harshness  of  the  flash  scum  of  a  city. 

The  Ego's  worst  enemy  is  Truth.  This  gives  truth  the  slap  in 
the  face  good  for  us. 

{The  Proprietor  approaches ;  stands  in  the  middle  of 
the  square  opening,  his  stomach  pointing  rudely  at  them, 
head  and  eye  frowning  down  on  Kemp.  They  look  at  him 
in  silence.  He  suddenly  whisks  his  stomach  away,  wheels, 
and  moves  sJiQulderingly  back  into  restaurant.) 

Kemp  (continuing) .  Self.  Self.  One  must  rescue  that  sanity. 
Truth,  duty — are  insanity. 

FiNGAL.  You  are  talking  for  the  times.  There  are  times  whfen 
Self,  Self— 

Kemp.  Yes,  perhaps.    But  if  we  have  not  War,  we  have  Art 

FiNGAL.    Now  we  have  both — 

Kemp.  But  Art  is  much  the  purer  and  stronger,  and  against 
its  truths  and  impositions  we  much  revolt  or  at  least  react.  The 
"pure  artist"  is  a  Non-sense. 

The  gentle  man,  likewise,  must  be  shownt  his  place. 

The  Prussian  exploits  the  psychology  of  the  commisvoyageur 
to  harden  himself  into  a  practical  aggressor — 

FiNGAL.    Do  not  let  us  be  like  the  Prussian,  for — 

Kemp.  Heaven  forbid;  ah  yes,  forbid.  We  could  not  be  if 
we  tried.  We  therefore  could  introduce  a  little  of  his  methods 
without  the  danger  he  runs  of  foolishness  and  vulgarity. 

FiNGAL.    What  exactly  do  you  want  us  to  do? 

Kemp.  I  was  talking  about  the  individual.  The  Nation  nowa- 
days always  has  as  much  vulgarity  as  it  can  stand. 

FiNGAL.     Quite.    Then  you  mean — 

Kemp.  We,  as  individuals,  are  at  a  disadvantage  in  a  struggle 
witlv  the  community.  It  contains,  invariably,  inevitably,  criminal 
energy,  stoicism  and  vulgarity  of  a  high  order. 

FiNGAL.  But  why  do  you  make  this  opposition  between  the 
individual  and  the  community. 

Kemp.    /   did  not  make  it. 

FiNGAL.    But  does  it  exist  to  the  extent  you — 

Kemp.     It  exists.     It  exists  like  this.     A  hundred  men  is  a 


10  T  he    Little    Review 


giant. 

{Kemp  makes  his  points  with  a  finger  flattened  out 

on  the  table.     The  Proprietor  brings  his  stomach  forward. 

Kemp  waves  it  hurriedly  away  with  his  flat,  stiff  finger.) 

Kemp.     A  hundred  men  is  a  giant.     A  giant  is  always  rather 

lymphatic  and  inclined  to  be  weak  intellectually,  we  are  told.     He 

is  also  subject  to  violent  rages.    Just  as  legendary  men  were  always 

at  war  with  the  giants,  so  are  individuals  with  soceity. 

That  exceptional  men  can  be  spoilt  by  the  world  is  a  common- 
place. But  consider  another  thing.  See  how  two  or  three  distin- 
guised  people  lose  personal  value  in  a  mob — at  a  dinner,  at  a 
meeting.  Their  personalities  deteriorate  in  a  momnt — for  an  hour 
or  two.  They  hardly  ever  become  the  head  and  brain  of  the  Giant. 
FiNGAL.  That  doesn't  apply  to  all  men?  It  is  due  to  some 
weakness  in  the  personality.    Some  shing  most. 

Kemp.  Ah,  yes.  But  examine  those  shiners  by  themselves,  and 
look  steadily  at  their  words  and  acts.  Theirs  is  a  practical  and  re- 
lative success.  The  solitary  test  is  the  only  searching  one.  The  fine 
personality  loses;  in  every  case,  by  association.  The  problem  in  life 
is  to  maintain  the  Ideal  Giant. 

The  artist  is  the  Ideal  Giant  or  Many.  The  Crowd  at  its  mo- 
ments of  heroism  also  is.  But  Art  is  never  at  its  best  without  the 
assaults  of  Egotism  and  of  Life. 

For  the  health  of  the  Giant  as  much  as  for  that  of  the  individual 
this  conflict  and  its  alertes  are  necessary. 

Revolution  is  the  normal  proper  state  of  things. 
FiNGAL.     Paraguay  or  Venezuela  offering  the  picture  of  the 
Ideal  State. 

Kemp.    They  are  not  States.    They  are  just  Revolutions.    They 
should  be  called  the  "Revolution  of  Venezuela,"  etcetra,  etcetra. 
{Fingal  leans  back  against  the  ivall  and  stretches.) 
FiNGAL.    Well,  as  though  we  hadn't  war  enough  already!    Here 
you  are  trying  to  stir  up  a  new  war — a  World-War,  too,  I  suppose. 
Kemp.    No,  I'm  afraid  one  war  might  make  us  forget  our  other 
wars. 

FiNGAL.    I  wish  it  would! 

{Fingal  stares  back  into  the  Restaurant.  Two  tables 
away  a  stout  Belgian  woman  is  eating,  with  her  leg  heavily 
bandaged  resting  on  a  chair.     Kemp  turns  towards  Res- 


The    Lit  tl  e    Review  ii 

taurant,  pivoting  on  his  chair,  one  elbow  on  table.) 
Kemp.    Did  the  Germans  do  that? 

FiNGAL.  No.  She  comes  from  Louvain,  but  she  did  that 
herself. 

Kemp.  Has  not  she  the  grace  to  attribute  it  to  the  Germans? 
She  comes  from  Louvain,  bandaged,  at  a  moment  lilie  this!  It  is 
a  case  for  the  police.    She  must  be  in  German  pay. 

FiNGAL.  Quite  likely.  And  as  we  are  the  only  people  she  im- 
presses— 

{The  Proprietor  approaches  front  door  at  left.) 
The  Proprietor.     Miss  Godd  wishes  to  speak  to  you  on  the 
telephone. 

{Kemp  get  up.) 
Kemp.    I  must  go  and  telephone. 

{Fingal  gets  up.) 
FiNGAL.    I  must  go. 

Kemp.     I  shall  see  you  soon  again,  perhaps? 
Fingal.     Yes.     I'm  going  North  for  a  few  days.     I  shall  be 
back  the  beginning  of  next  week. 

{Thfy  both  walk  back  into  Restaurant,  Kemp  going 
out  through  door  at  left,  half  way  down  the  wall,  Fingal 
through  street  door  at  farther  end  of  Restaurant.) 

SCENE    II. 

Characters  : 

Mr.  John  Porter  Kemp. 

Scene: — A  dark  recess,  about  6  feet  long,  with  a  telephone  desk 
on  wall,  on  which  John  Kemp  is  leaning  and  speaking  at  telephone. 
At  the  back  is  a  staircase,  on  which  several  people  go  up  and  down 
during  action.  His  nose  occasionally  obscures  the  telephone  mouth- 
piece as  he  bends  his  head  and  listens.  When  he  answers  his  nose 
seems  fighting  and  fuming,  or  drawing  itself  up  solemnly,  admonish- 
ing the  mouth  into  which  he  is  speaking.  His  face  is  red,  the  veins 
protruding  on  tlte  side  of  his  forehead,  partly  from  the  effect  of 
holding  the  earpiece  up  to  his  ear. 

Kemp.    No,  I  did  not  say  that.    What  I  meant  was  that  hion- 


12  The    L-ittle    Review 


esty  was  a  rhythm;  it  must  be  broken  up.  I  found  myself  becoming 
the  first  cousin  to  George  Washington.  I  really  couldn't  tell  a  lie!  I 
became  the  slave  of  any  bloody  fact.  Similarly,  but  oppositely,  in 
my  writing.  /  did  not  introduce  a  single  real  character  taken  from 
life,  for  over  a  year!  I  was  becoming  in  both  cases  a  maniac.  In 
the  case  of  art  a  man  I  met  every  day  in  the  Restaurant  might  coin- 
cide, except  for  some  irrelevant  details,  with  my  last  dream  or  will- 
picture!  But  I  steered  all  round  him  askance,  and  never  touched 
him,  as  though  he  had  been  a  ghost!  He  was  something,  I  felt,  that 
was  too  true  to- be  true.  Do  you  see?  Not  to  consider  life  partially 
a  dream,  or  fancy  partially  a  substance,  is  utter  madness!  My  fan- 
cies are  so  mater-of-fact,  shameless  and  conceited,  that  they  march 
about  the  streets  ilke  Golyadkin's  double.  I  have  refused  to  accept 
them  as  real,  up  till  now,  simply  because  they  happened  to  be  there! 
It  is  absurd!     What?     Absurd! ' 

{Kemp  inclines  his   head  and  listens  crossly.     The 
voice  speaking  in  his  ear  evidently  annoys  liim.) 
Kemp.    Yes.    I  mentioned  Golyadkin:     he — But  that  is  wan- 
dering from  the  point. 

{His  face  becomes  a  confused  mass  of  irony,  shame, 
and  irritation). 
Kemp.     Your  father's  spoons  are  excellent.     Yes.  That  shows 
the  right  spirit.    But  it  is  not  by  pawning  a  spoon.    What? 

{Kemp  seems  no  longer  listening.    He  says,  "What!" 
occasionally  and  then  relapses  into  staring  at  the  ground. 
He  at  last  begins  speaking  with  impatient  emphasis;  put- 
ting two  more  pennies  into  the  machine. 
Kemp.     My  point  is  plain.     It  is  entirely  a  question  of  whole 
hogging,  and  escaping  from  the  dreariness  and  self-contempt  of 
play.    We  play  at  everything  here —  at  love,  art,  winning  and  losing 
• — don't  we?     We  do!     The  artists  take  them!     They  are  the  rol;- 
tenest  and  most  contemptible  crowd  discoverable— rotten  as  most 
artists-crowds  are,  anywhere  in  the  world;  one  of  the  worst  sort  of 
crowds.    Chelsea!     It  is  a  name  to-day  that  does  not  leave  us  many 
memories,  alas,  of  genuninely  Guinevere-loving  able  dreamers.     It 
is  the  most  pestiferous  haunt  of  dilettantism,  snobbery  and  bour- 
geois selfishness.     Consider  that  "rag"  we  went  to  last  week!     Oh 
my  God!     But  all  thkt  we  are  agreed  on.     Now,  at  least  all  that 
we  must  not  be!     How  shall  we  avoid  becoming  that  play-acting, 


The    Little     Review  13 

bickering,  pretending  trash?  Easily,- for  you  require  years  of  selfish 
nursing  to  become  that.  You  say:  When  there  is  fire  and  intelli- 
gence and  will  all  round  you,  you  will  become  modelled  to  a  reality 
that  spits  on  that!  Your  quiet  will  not  be  contaminated:  your 
dreaming  will  ignore  the  mess  in  which  it  sits  *and  contrives.  Not 
quite!  We  owe  ourselves  a  sacrifice.  I  would  rather  be  out  there 
with  the  soldiers  than  here  with  the  playmn  of  the— Western  Worid! 
But  when  you  think  of  battles  you  cannot  help  remembering  that  it 
is  that  art-crowd  that  are  being  fought  for,  instead  of  the  "Our  women 
and  children"  for  whom  you  are  to  "lend  our  strong  right  arm." 
Women  can  always  look  after  themselves,  can't  they? 

''We  are  the  civilisation  for  which  you  are  fighting!"  I  read 
to-day  in  a  newspaper  that  one  of  the  "Cafe  Royalties",  as  the  de- 
lighted paper  called  them,  had  said  that.  And  then,  having  uttered 
that  boast,  he  departed  to  a  studio-rag;  and  the  next  morning  he 
sculpted  his  daily  sculp,  or  pawed  on  to  his  canvas  his  daily  slop, 
probably  German  as  regards  its  emotions  and  intelligence;  indubi- 
tably vomit.  No!  action,  for  me,  does  not  lie  that  way.  And  then 
again  if  you  don't  remember  the  art-crowd,  you  remember  other 
equally  nauseaous  ones  that  linger  behind  and  contaminate  the  War, 
actually  dirtying  with  their  existence  the  bitterest  heroism,  degrading 
death.  Yet  action,  if  you  could  find  the  right  action,  is  the  "sover- 
eign cure  for  our  ills." 

And  it  is  maddening  to  live  with  such  a  profusion  of  action 
suddenly  poured  out,  most  wasted;  at  least  not  curing  what  requires 
that  cure. 

(Kemp  places  two  more  pennies  in  the  box,  muttering,, 
"what  porridge  had  John  Keats?"  He  seem^s  pursuing 
some  parallel  between  his  oratory  and  the  pennies.) 

Kemp.  Yes.  Well  then,  I  doubt  if  you  can  act  now,  in  the 
sense  I  mean,  any  more  than  you  can  swim  without  water.  But  at 
least  avoid  degrading  substitutes  for  action.  If  you  act,  in  however 
slight  a  way,  act.  If  you  are  not  doing  anything,  do  not  pretend 
that  you  are.  Do  nothing.  It  is  the  only  clean  proceeding  when 
conditions  are  against  some  particular  form  of  action.  Do  not 
shrink  from  misfortune.  It  will  not  hurt  you.  Then — I  can  hold 
this  thing  no  longer  to  my  ear.  I  must  go,  as  well.  Are  you  at  your 
father's  house?  Alone?  I  shouldn't  interfere  with  his  property 
anv  more!     Ha!     Ha!     We  meet  to-morrow.    Farewell. 


14  The    Little    Review 

{Kemp  places  the  receiver  up,  and  walks  quickly  back 
through  the  door  into  the  Restaurant.) 

SCENE    III. 

(Same  as  Scene  i.  Time:  next  day,  1:30.) 

Characters : 

Mr.  John  Porter  Kemp. 

■  ;  -  Miss  Rose  Good. 

Detective:  William  Druce. 

Rose  Godd  and  Kemp  are  sitting  opposite  each  other  at  table. 
Rose  Godd  is  a  very  large-boned  flat  faced  woman  of  twenty  years. 
When  she  stands  up  she  is  very  tall  and  strong  looking,  with  a, small 
head  and  thick  neck.  The  Mongol  intensity  of  her  face  is  mitigated 
by  self-consciousness.  Her  lips  are  painted  a  bright  red  in  the  midst 
of  her  yellow  skin.  She  is  always  perfectly  calm.  She  feels  that 
her  intelligence  is  not  quite  good  enough  for  her  company:  but  pride 
in  what  she  considers  her  latent  power  of  action  brings  her  into 
steadfastness.  Kemp,  as  he  looks  at  her,  wonders  sometimes  whether 
the  "action"  he  preaches  will  not  be  found  in  his  case  in  Rose  Godd 
flinging  herself  on  him  and  trying  to  tear  him  to. pieces.  But  he  is 
satisfied  on  reflection  (and  turns  from  the  fact  with  distaste,  usually) 
that  it  is  a  softer  conflict  that  she  desires.  But  as  between  Rose 
Godd  and  himself  that  action  could  not  be  disguised  into  the  role 
of  discovery. 

Kemp.     Will  you  have  coffee?     Albert!     Two  coffees  please! 

Waiter.    Two  coffees,  sir?     Yes  sir! 

Kemp.  That  is  the  situation  and.  there  is  no  preamble.  But 
Hakluyt  travelled  into  lands  we  could  never  discover.  He  went 
on  millions  of  leagues  further  than  we  could  ever  go.  We  are  thrown 
back  on  ourselves  in  that  sense.  That  is  action.  The  old  way: 
something  divorced  from  ourselves:  the  appetite  for,  and  the  con- 
ditions to  attain  to,  the  New.  To  fit  out  a  high  wooden  ship,_with 
a  poop  and  a  carved  figure  on  the  bow,  at  Plymouth,  to  sail  for 


The     Little    Review  15 

El  Dorado  or  even  Rio  Grande,  would  be  neither  venturesome  nor 
intelligent.  It  would  be  a  reconstruction  as  foolish  as  Don  Quixote's 
was  wise.  Yet  we  suffer  from  this  shrivelling  up  of  our  horizons. 
We  need  those  horizons,  and  action  and  adventure  as  much  as  our 
books  need  exercise.  We  have  been  rendered  sedentary  by  per- 
fected transport.  Our  minds  have'  become  home-keeping.  We  do 
not  think  as  boldly:  bur  thoughts  do  not  leap  out  in  the  same  way. 
Well,  in  the  case  of  the  Earth  there  is  nothing  to  be  done.  If 
it  were  suddenly  increased  to  twenty  times  its  present  size  we  should 
not  be  impressed  ,or  see  Giants  now,  intellectuai  or  other.  That 
something  subtle  and  multitudinous  that  is  the  Poet,  is  not  so  easy 
to  descrijje:  for  to  say  that  he  is  "great"  is  not  the  point,  although 
is  satisfied  our  Victorian  forefathers  to  see  him  as  a  perfect,  very 
big,  and  muscular  mail,  with  philological  credentials,  a  Konig,  a 
canny-man:  a  Can-Man.  He  was  a  cloud-squatting  Jehovah's  ath- 
letic twin  brother.  Then  when  we  hear  this  war  referred  to  as  "the 
Greatest  War  of  all  time,"  we  laugh  irritably.  It  is  not  by  a 
counting  of  heads,  or  poor  corpses,  that  the  blank  in  our  imagination 
can  be  filled!  They  were  evil  fellows  who  stole  our  visions.  He 
would  be  a  great  saviour  who  could  get  them  back  again!  Mean- 
time it  is  a  female's  game  to  go  on  pretending  this,  and  playing  at 
that!  We  must  contrive;  find  a  nev/  Exit.  Any  wildly  subversive 
action  should  be  wlecomed.  We  must  escape  from  the  machine  in 
ourselves!    Smash  it  up:  renew  ourselves. 

(The  Proprietor  brings  his  stomach  sloivly  up.     It 
appears  like  an  emblem  0}  the  Earth  to  Kemp,  who  points 
to  it  with  a  jerk  as  a  schoolmaster  might,  at  a  class-room 
globe.    But  it  has  come  too  late.    Miss  Godd  and  Kemp 
stare  stupidly  at  it  together.    They  at  last  begin  laughing, 
and   Rodac   carries   it   swiftly   away,   frowning   over   his 
shoulder.) 
Kemp.    But  I  think  you  misunderstood  me  with  your  spoons! 
(He  smiles  slowly  and  archly  at  her,  wagging  his  head. 
She  looks  at  him  with  such  fixity  that  his  smile  is  gradually 
driven  off  his  face.    He  remains  staring  at  her  in  a  sobered, 
cross,  astonishment.) 
Kemp.     I  am  sorry.     Have  I  hurt  you?     Did  you  put  much 
store  in  the  spoons? 

She  shakes  her  head.     Two  or  three  tears  roll  down 


i6  T  h  e    Li  t  tie     Review 


her  cheeks.) 
Kemp.    But  your  spoons  are  no  more  ineffective  than  my  lies. 
What  did  you  get  for  them? 
Miss   Good.     Not  much. 

{Kemp  looks  down  at  his  plate.    Their  entente  to-day 
does  not  seem  the  same  as  on  other  occasions.     Her  face 
appears  at  once  reproachful,  insolently  claiming  something, 
antagonistically  reserved.    She  appears  looking  at  him  out 
of  armour  in  which  she  has  implicit  confidence.    Kemp  is 
embarrassed,  and  when  he  begins  speaking  again  takes  up 
the  subject  truculently.     He  attributes  her  attitude,  for 
want  of  a  better  explanation,  to  his  reasoning.     He  feels 
he  has  not  held  his  audience.) 
Kemp.     I  feel  that  my  lies  and  your  spoons  were  about  as 
playful  as  some  of  the  absurdities  with  which  we  reproach  our  art- 
friends.     Compared  to  death  on  a  barricade,  or  the  robber  Garniers 
Swedish  exercises  while  he  was  in  hiding  in  the  suburbs  of  Paris, 
they  are  slight  exploits.     The  blood  that  spurts  from  a  tapped  pro- 
biscus  is  not  enough.     A  spoon  will  not  thrust  you  into  jail  for  so 
long  that  you  forget  what  the  Earth  looks  like.    For  the  hair  to  turn 
white,  the  heart  to  turn  grey,  in  an  hour,  you  require  the  real 
thing,  ma  mie. 

Miss  Good.    Yes. 

{Kemp  at  her  sideways.  Her  face  is  green  and  her 
eyes  shining.  He  reverts  once  more  to  the  hypothesis  of  a 
wrestling-match  with  Rose  Godd.  He  looks  at  her  large 
muscular  hands.  She  follows  the  direction  of  his  eyes. 
With  a  sudden  look  of  panic  slie  places  them  under  the 
table,  and  betiveen  her  knees,  and  she  seems  almost  hissing 
at  him.) 
Miss  Godd.  What  are  you  looking  at,  Kemp?  What  are  you 
looking  at?     . 

Kemp.    At  your  hands. 

{She  works  them  up  and  down  spasmodically  as  if 

they  were  cold. 

Kemp.    But  "it  i«  the  principle."    A  great  violence,  unless  you 

were  sure  you  had  your  finger  on  the  spot,  would  be  no  better.     So 

long  as  you  are  pretending  to  do  anything  de^rate  or  the  reverse. 

The  objective  I  indicate  is  differnt.     Whethre  it  is  extreme  or  pue- 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  17 

rile  is  as  it  happens. 

Miss  Good.    As  it  happens? 

Kemp.     You  seem  rather  odd,  Miss  Godd! 

Miss  Godd.     Give  me  a  cigarette. 

Kemp.    You  ask  for  it  like  a  criminal  on  the  scaffold! 

{He  gives  Miss  Godd  a  cigarette.  A  man  has  entered 
tlie  door  oj  the  Restaurant.  He  is  talking  to  Radac,  the 
Proprietor.  Kemp  watches  him  idly  jor  a  moment.  He 
then  notices  that  the  Proprietor  and  the  newcomer  are  both 
looking  at  the  table  where  Rose  Godd  and  himself  are 
seated.  He  glances  over  to  Rose  Godd,  and  finds  her 
eyes  are  fixed  on  him,  with  a  senseless  fiery  questioning.) 
Kemp.    What  is  the  matter? 

Miss  Godd.     Nothing.     I  wondered  something But  your 

standards  are  so  high! 

Kemp.    I  can't  help  my  standards  being  a  bit  cocked  up. 
Miss  Godd.  I  mean  in  this  respect:  in  connection  with  what  we 
talk  about  so  much. 

Kemp.     What? 

Miss  Godd.  You  must  torment  me  with  your  denseness.  Your 
standards  for  action  are  so  difficult.  You  won't  accept  an  action. 
You  look  at  ai^  action  as  critically  as  you  do  at  a  thought.  Most 
actions  won't  stand  that.  They  are  delicate  little  things,  or  rough 
undeveloped  things,  or  mad  things.  If  you  look  at  them  too  hard 
— as  that  man  is  looking  at  me — {Miss  Godd  indicates  the  man  who 
is  talking  to  Radac)  they  might  shrivel  up,  they  do  get  small.  I 
pity  all  actions.  They  are  so  unimportant  compared  to  thought. 
For  all  their  blood,  men  sniff  at  them  and  dissect  them. 
Kemp.  There  need  not  be  blood. 
Miss  Godd.    You  don't  have  to  dig  far  for  blood. 

{Radac  and  the  man  who  has  been  talking  to  him 
have  come  up,  and  [are  standing  a  few  yards  from  the) 
table  now,  listening  to  the  conversation  of  Kemp  and  Miss 
Godd.) 
Kemp.    No,  it  is  true.     But  the  avdr-du-poids  amount  of  vio- 
lence is  no  criterion  of  action.    It  would  have  taken  no  more  force 
and  would  be  no  more  bloody  an  action,  to  kill  Napoleon  than  any 
contemporary  bourgeois  in  France.    But  it  would  have  been  a  more 
important  action.     And  any  action,  however  bloodless,  that  ham- 


The    Little    Review 


strung  that  destructive  personality,  would  have  been  a  more  impor- 
tant action  than  to  cut  a  grocer's  throat. 
Miss  Godd.    Or  a  Banker's, 
Kemp.    Why  a  Banker? 
Miss  Good.    Because — he  was  a  banker. 
Kemp.    Who?    Napoleon? 
Miss  Godd.    This  gentleman  will  tell  you. 

(Miss  Godd  looks  up  sideways  at  the  man  with  Radac.) 
Kemp  .  What  the  devil  are  you  standing  there  for? 
Detective  William  Druce.     Steady — steady.    None  of  your 
devils  to  me,  please.     You  may  be  the  Devil,  for  all  I  know.    I  am 
a  Police  Officer.    You  are  Miss  Rose  Godd,  I  believe? 

Miss  Godd.     (looking  at  him  blackly).    Yes.  that's  my  name. 
Detective  William  Druce.    I  have  come  to  arrest  you,  Rose 
Godd,  for  the  murder  of  Nicolas  Godd. 
Kemp.    Murder!     Murder  of  whom. 
Miss  Godd  (laughs).     Napoleon! 
Detective  William  Druce.     Come  with  me,  please. 

(The  detective  ivatches  Ross  Godd  with  wary  atten- 
tion.    Rose  Godd  gets  up,  her  face  a  dark  white,  her  lips 
hard  factitious  crimson.) 
Miss  Godd.     Good-bye!  « 

Kemp.    Haven't  you .     Is  Nicolas  Godd  your  father? 

Miss  Godd.    I  have  acted. 

(The  Detective  springs  at  Rose  Godd,  catching  her 
by  the  wrists,  and  a  small  bottle  jails  on  the  table.  They 
roll  on  the  jloor  together,  and  the  back  oj  the  restaurant 
becomes  full  oj  a  crowd  oj  people — diners,  Radac,  and 
some  jolk  jrom  the  street. 

Kemp  sits  with  his  white  profile,  and  large  eye  dis- 
torted with  shame  and  perplexity.    He  springs  up,  partly 
disappearing  behind  the  table,  where  he  is  noticed  to  have 
*"         seized  the  Detective  by  the  collar. 

CURTAIN. 


The    Little    Review  19 

POEMS 

Ezra    Pound 

Homage    a    la    Langue    d'Or 

Alha 

When  the  nightingale  to  his  mate 
Sings  day-long  and  night  late 
My  love  and  I  keep  state 
In  bower , 
In  flower, 

'Till  the  watchman  on  the  tower 
Cry  : 

"Up  !     Thou  rascal ,   Rise  , 
I  see  the  white 
Light 

And  the  night 
'    Flies" 


Compleynt  of  a  gentleinan  who  has  been  waiting  out- 
side for  some  time. 

'*0  Plasmatour  and  true  celestial  light , 
Lord  powerful ,   engirdled  all  with  might , 
Give  my  good-fellow  aid  in  fools'  despite 
Who  stirs  not  forth  this  night , 

And  day  comes  on . 

Sst  !    my  good  fellow ,  art  awake  or  sleeping? 
Sleep  thou  no  more .    I  see  the  star  upleaping 
That  hath  the  dawn  in  keeping  , 

And  day  comes  on  ! 


20  The    Little    Review 


Hi  !     Harry  ,  hear  me,   for  I  sing  aright 
Sleep  not  thou  now ,   I  hear  the  bird  in  flight 
That  plaineth  of  the  going  of  the  night , 

,  And  day  comes  on  ! 

Come  now  !     Old  swenkin  !     Rise  up  from  thy  bed  ,  ^ 

I  see  the  signs  upon  the  welkin  spread  , 

If  thou  come  not ,   the  cost  be  on  thy  head  . 

And  day  comes  on  ! ! 

And  here  I  am  since  going  down  of  sun , 
And  pray  to  God  that  is  St.  Mary's  son , 
To  bring  thee  safe  back  ,    my  companion  . 

And  day  comes  on  . 

And  thou  out  here  beneath  the  porch  of  stone 
Bade  me  to  see  that  a  good  watch  was  done , 
And  now  Thou 'It  none  of  me  ,   and  wilt  have  none*     . 
Of  song  of  mine  . 

And  day  comes  on  .  " 

Bass  voice  jrom  within  .  ' 

"Wait ,  my  good  fellow  .     For  such  joy  I  take 
With  her  venust  and  noblest  to  my  make 
To  hold  embraced,  and  will  not  her  forsake 
For  yammer  of  the  cuckold  ,  , 

Though  day  break  ." 

(Girart  Bornello) 

II  ^ 

Avril 

When  the  springtime  is  sweet 

And  the  birds  repeat 

Their  new  song  in  the  leaves , 

'  Tis  meet  .  , 

A  man  go  where  he  will . 


The    Little    Review  21 


But  from  where  my  heart  is  set 

No  message  I  get  ; 

My  heart  all  wakes  and  grieves  ; 

Defeat 

Or  luck ,    I  must  have  my  fill . 

Our  love  comes  out 

Like  the  branch  that  turns  about 

On  the  top  of  the  hawthorne  , 

With  frost  and  hail  at  night 

Suffers  despite 

'Till  I  have  my  hand  'neath  her  cloak  . 

I  remember  the  young  day 

When  we  set  strife  away , 

And  she  gave  me  such  gesning , 

Her  love  and  her  ring  :, 

God  grant  I  die  not  by  any  man's  stroke 

'Till  I  have  my  hand  'neath  her  cloak. 

I  care  not  for  their  clamour  , 

Who  have  come  between  me  and  my  charmer , 

For  I  know  how  words  run  loose  , 

Big  talk  and  little  use  . 

Spoilers  of  pleasure  ,  ^ 

We  take  their  measure  . 

{Guilhem  de  Peitieii) 

III 

Descant  on  a  Theme  by  Cerclainon 

When  the  sweet  air  goes  bitter , 
And  the  cold  birds  twitter 
Where  the  leaf  falls  from  the  twig  , 
I  sough  and  sing 

that  Love  goes  out 
.  Leaving  me  no  power  to  hold  him 


22  The    Little    Review 


Of  love  I  have  naught 

Save  troubles  and  sad  thought , 

And  nothing  is  grievous 

as  I  desirous , 
Wanting  only  what 
No  man  can  get  or  has  got . 

With  the  noblest  that. stands  in  men's  sight, 

If  all  the  world  be  in  despite 

I  care  not  a  glove  . 

Where  my  love  is ,  there  is  a  glitter  of  sun  ; 

God  give  me  life  ,  and  let  my  course  run 
'Till  I  have  her  I  love 
To  lie  with  and  prove  . 

I  do  not  live ,  nor  cure  me  , 

Nor  feel  my  ache  —  great  as  it  is  , 

For  love  will  give 

me  no  respite , 
Nor  do  I  know  when  I  turn  left  or  right 

nor  when  I  go  out . 

For  in  her  is  all  my  delight 

And  all  that  can  save  me . 

I  shake  and  burn  and  quiver 
From  love  ,   awake  and  in  swevyn  , 
Such  fear  I  have  she  deliver 

me  not  from  pain  , 

Who  know  not  how  to  ask  her  ; 

Who  can  not . 
Two  years  ,  three  years  I  seek 
And  though  I  fear  to  speak  out , 

Still  she  must  know  it . 
If  she  won't  have  me  now  ,  Death  is  my  portion 

Would  I  had  died  that  day 

I  came  into  her  sway  . 
God  !    How  softly  this  kills  ! 
When  her  love-look  steals  on  me . 


The    Little    Review  23 


Killed  me  she  has  ,  I  know  not  how  it  was , 

For  I  would  not  look  on  a  woman  . 

Joy  I  have  none  ,  if  she  make  me  not  mad 

Or  set  me  quiet ,  or  bid  me  chatter . 
Good  is  it  to  me  if'she  flout 

Or  turn  me  inside  out ,  and  about . 

My  ill  doth  she  turn  sweet . 

How  swift  it  is .    Pleasure  is  'neath  her  feet. 

For  I  am  traist  and  loose  , 
I  am  true  ,  or  a  liar , 
All  vile ,  or  all  gentle , 
Or  shaking  between , 

£is  she  desire , 
I,  Cerclamon  ,  sorry  and  glad  ,  , 

The  man  whom  love  had 

and  has  ever  ; 
Alas  !     whoe'er  it  please  or  pain  , 
She  can  me  retain  . 

I  am  gone  from  one  joy , 

From  one  I  loved  never  so  much  , 

She  by  one  touch 

Reft  me  away  ; 

So  doth  bewilder  me 

I  can  not  say  my  say 

nor  my  desire  , 

And  when  she  looks  on  me 

It  seems  to  me 

I  lose  all  wit  and  sense. 

The  noblest  girls  men  love 

'Gainst  her  I  prize  not  as  a  glove 

Worn  and  old  . 

Though  the  whole  world  run  rack 

And  go  dark  with  cloud  , 

Light  is 

Where  she  stands , 


24  The    Little    Review 


And  a  clamour  loud 

in  my  ears. 

Vergier 

In  orchard  under  the  hawtihorne 
She  has  her  lover  till  morn' 
Till  the  traist  man  cry  out  to  warn 
Them.    God  how  swift  the  night , 

And  day  comes  on  . 

O  Plasmatour  ,  that  thou  end  not  the  night , 
Nor  take  my  beloved  from  my  sight , 
Nor  I,  nor  tower-man,  look  on  daylight, 
'Fore  God ,  How  swift  the  night , 

And  day  comes  on  . 

"Lovely  thou  art ,  to  hold  me  close  and  kisst , 
Now  cry  the  birds  out,  in  the  meadow  mist , 
Despite  the  cuckold ,  do  thou  as  thou  list , 
So  swiftly  goes  the  night 

r„  And  day  comes  on  . 

"My  pretty  boy ,  make  we  our  play  again 
Here  in  the  orchard  where  the  birds  complain  , 
'Till  the  traist  watcher  his  song  unrein , 
Ah  God  !     How  swift  the  night 

And  day  comes  on  .' 

"Out  of  the  wind  that  blows  from  her , 

That  dancing  and  gentle  is  and  pleasanter  , 

Have  I  drunk  a  draught ,  sweeter  than  scent  of  myrrh  , 

Ah  God  !     How  swift  the  night  . 

And  day  comes  on  .' 

Venust  the  lady  ,  and  none  lovelier  , 

For  her  great  beauty  ,  many  men  look  on  her  , 

Out  of  my  love  will  her  heart  not  stir  . 

By  God  ,  how  swift  the  night  . 

And  day  comes  on  . 


tz- 


The    Little    Review  2$ 


Can::  on 

I  only  ,  and  who  elrische  pain  support 

Know  out  love's  heart  o'erborne  by  overlove  , 

For  my  desire  that  is  so  firm  and  straight 

And  unchanged  since  I  found  her  in  my  sight 

And  unturned  since  she  came  within  my  glance , 

That  far  from  her  my  speech  springs  up  aflame  ; 

Near  her  comes  not .     So  press  the  words  to  arrest  it . 

I  am  blind  to  others  ,  and  their  retort 

I  hear  not .    In  her  alone  ,  I  see  ,  move  , 

Wonder  ....    And  jest  not.    And  the  words  dilate 

Not  truth  ;  but  mouth  speaks  not  the  heart  outright  : 

I  could  not  walk  roads  ,  flats  ,  dales ,  hills  ,  by  chance  , 

To  find  charm's  sum  within  one  single  frame 

As  God  hath  set  in  her  t'assay  and  test  it . 

And  I  have  passed  in  many  a  goodly  court 

To  find  in  hers  more  charm  than  rumour  thereof  .  .  . 

In  solely  hers.     Measure  and  sense  to  mate , 

Youth  and  beauty  learned  in  all  delight , 

Gentrice  did  nurse  her  up ,  and  so  advance 

Her  fair  beyond  all  reach  of  evil  name  , 

To  clear  her  worth  ,  no  shadow  hath  oppresst  it . 

Her  contact  flats  not  out ,  falls  not  off  short  .... 

Let  her  ,  I  pray ,  guess  out  the  sense  hereof 

For  never  will  it  stand  in  open  prate- 

Until  my  inner  heart  stand  in  daylight , 

So  that  heart  pools  him  when  her  eyes  entrance , 

As  never  doth  the  Rhone  ,  fulled  and  untame , 

Pool ,  where  the  freshets  tumult  hurl  to  crest  it . 

Flimsy  another's  joy  ,  false  and-  distort , 
No  paregale  that  she  springs  not  above  .... 


26  The    Little    Review 

Her  love-touch  by  none  other  mensurate  , 

To  have  it  not  ?     Alas  !     Though  the  pains  bite 

Deep  ,  torture  is  but  galzeardy  and  dance  , 

For  in  my  thought  my  lust  hath  touched  his  aim  . 

God  !     Shall  I  get  no  more  !     No  fact  to  best  it  ! 

No  delight  I ,  from  now ,  in  dance  or  sport , 
Nor  will  these  toys  a  tinkle  of  pleasure  prove , 
Compared  to  her ,  whom  no  loud  profligate 
Shall  leak  abroad  how  much  she  makes  my  right . 
Is  this  too  much?    If  she  count  not  mischance 
What  I  have  said,  then  no.    But  if  she  blame , 
Then  tear  ye  out  the  tongue  that  hath  expresst  it . 

The  song  begs  you  :     Count  not  this  speech  ill  chance  , 
But  if  you  count  the  song  worth  your  acclaim  , 
Arnaut  cares  lyt  who  praise  or  who  contest  it. 

(Arnaut  Daniel,  a.  d.  about  iigo) 

Moeurs    Contemporaines 


Mr.  Styrax 

I. 

Mr.  Hecatomb  Sfyrax,  the  owner  of  a  large  estate 
and  of  large  muscles  , 

A  "blue"  and  a  climber  of  moimtains  ,  has  married 
at  the  age  of  28  , 

He  being  at  that  age  a  virgin  , 

The  term  "virgo"  being  made  male  in  mediaeval  latinity  ; 
His  ineptitudes 

Have  driven  his  wife  from  one  religious  excess  to  another. 

She  has  abandoned  the  vicar 

For  he  was  lacking  in  vehemence  ; 

She  is  now  the  high-priestess 

Of  a  modern  and  ethical  cult , 


The    Little    Review  27 


And  even  now  Mr.  Styrax 
Does  not  believe  in  aesthetics. 

2. 

His  brother  has  taken  to  gipsies , 

But  the  son-in-law  of  Mr.  H.  Styrax 

Objects  to  perfumed  cigarettes . 

In  the  parlance  of  Niccolo  Macchiavelli, 
"Thus  things  proceed  in  their  circle"; 
And  thus  the  empire  is  maintained. 


II. 

Clara 

At  sixteen  she  was  a  potential  celebrity 

With  a  distaste  for  caresses  . 

She  now  wrties  to  me  from  a  convent  ; 

Hj'er  life  is  obscure  and  troubled  ; 

Her  second  husband  will  not  divorce  her  ; 

Her  mind  is ,  as  ever ,  uncultivated", 

And  no  issue  presents  itself.. 

She  does  not  desire  her  children  , 

Or  any  more  children. 

Her  ambition  is  vague  and  indefinite. 

She  will  neither  stay  in,  nor  come  out . 

III. 

Soiree 

Upon  learning  that  the  mother  wrote  verses , 

And  that  the  father  wrote  verses  , 

And  that  the  youngest  son  was  in  a  publisher's  office , 

And  that  the  friend  of  the  second  daughter 

was   undergoing   a   novel , 
The  young  American  pilgrim 
Exclaimed  : 

"This  is  a  darn'd  clever  bunch  !" 


28  The    Little    Review 


IV. 

Sketch   48   b.    11 

At  the  age  of  27 

Its  home  mail  is  still  opened  by  its  maternal  parent 

And  its  office  mail  may  be  opened  by 

its  parent  of  the  opposite  gender . 
It   is   an   officer , 

and  a  gentleman  , 

and  an  architect 

V. 

"Nodier  racoutc " 

At  a  friend  of  my  wife's  there  is  a  photograph  , 
A  faded  ,  pale  ,  brownish  photograph  , 
Of  the  times  when  the  sleeves  were  large , 
Silk  ,   stiff  and  large  above  the  lacertus , 
That  is ,  the  upper  arm  , 
And  decollete  .... 

It  is  a  lady , 
She  sits  at  a  harp , 
Playing , 

And  by  her  left  foot ,  in  a  basket  ^ 
Is  an  infant ,  aged  about  14  months  , 
The  infant  beams  at  the  parent , 
The  parent  re-beams  at  its  offspring . 
^The  basket  is  lined  with  satin  , 
There  is  a  satin-like  bow  on  the  harp . 

2. 

And  in  the  home  of  the  novelist 
There  is  a  satin-like  bow  on  an  harp . 

You  enter  and  pass  hall  after  hall 
And  conservatory  follows  conservatory , 
Lilies  lift  their  white  symbolical  cups, 
Their  s^/^nbolical  pollen  is  excerpted , 


The    Little    Review 


29 


Near  ihem  I  noticed  an  harp 

And  the  blue  satin  ribbon  , 

And  the  copy  of  "Hatha  Yoga" 

And  the  neat  piles  of  unopened  ,  unopening  books , 

And  she  spoke  to  me  of  the  monarch  , 
And  of  the  purity  of  her  soul . 

VI  ' 

Stele 

After  years  of  continence 

he  hurled  himself  into  a  sea  of  six  women, 
Now  quenched  as  the  brand  of  Meleagar 
sea-coast. 
SiSTE    Viator  . 

VII 

/  Vecchii 

They  will  come  no  more , 

The  old  men  with  beautiful  manners. 

II  etait  comme  un  tout  petit  gargori 
With  his  blouse  full  of  apples 
And  sticking  out  all  the  way  round  ; 
Blagueur  !     "Con  gli  occhi  onesti  e  tardi", 

And  he  said  :  .  " 

"Oh  !     Abelard  ."  as  if  the  topic 
Were  much  too  abstruse  for  his  comprehension  , 
And  he  talked  about  "the  Great  Mary", 
And  said:  "Mr.  Pound  is  shocked  at  my  levity", 
When  it  turned  out  he  meant  Mrs  Ward. 

And  the  other  was  rather  like  my  bust  by  Gaudier  . 
Or  like  a  real  Texas  colonel , 
He  said:  "Why  flay  dead  horses  ? 
"There  once  was  a  man  called  Voltaire." 


30  The    Little    Review 


And  he  said  they  used  to  cheer  Verdi , 
In  Rome  ,  after  the  opera , 
And  the  guards  couldn't  stop  them 
And  that  was  an  anagram  for  Vittorio 

And  that  other  ,  balancing  on  the  edge  of  a  gondola 
Emanuele  Re  D'  Italia , 

And  the  guards  couldn't  stop  them  . 

And  that  other,  balancing  on  the  edge  of  a  gondola 
And  that  other,  balancing  on  the  edge  of  a  gondola  . 

Old  men  with  beautiful  manners , 
Sitting  in  the  Row  of  a  morning , 
Walking  on  the  Chelsea  Embankment. 


VIII  • 

Ritratto 

And  she  said  : 

You  remember  Mr.  Lowell , 
"He  was  your  ambassador  here  ?" 
And  I  said:     "That  was  before  I  arrived." 
And  she  said  : 

"He  stomped  into  my  bed-room  . 
(By  that  time  she  had  got  on,  to  Browning.) 

" stomped  into  my  bed-room  " 

"And  said:  "Do  I , 

"  "  I  ask  you  ,  Do  I 

"  "  Care  too  much  for  society  dinners  ?" 

"  And  I  wouldn't  say  that  he  didn't . 

"  Shelley  used  to  live  in  this  house ." 


She  was  a  very  old  lady 
I  never  saw  her  again  . 


The    Little    Review  31 


IX 

Quis  miilta  gracilis  ? 

What  youth  ,  abundant  Pyrrha  , 
(Alix  ,  your  name  is  ,  really) ; 
What  blasphemous  clear  rose , 
What  sleek  black  head 
Replaces  my  ragged  head  ? 
What  upright  form  , 
Owing  as  much  to  nature  as  to  Poole  , 
Is  your  this  fortnight's  fool, 

Alix    (or  Pyrrha)  ? 


ULYSSES 

James   Joyce 

Episode    III 

INELUCTABLE  modality  of  the  visible:  at  least  that  if  no  more, 
thought  through  my  eyes.  Signatures  of  all  things  I  am 
here  to  read,  seaspawn  and  seawrack,  the  nearing  tide,  that  rusty 
boot.  Snotgreen,  bluesilver,  rust:  coloured  signs.  Limits  of  the 
diaphane.  But  he  adds:  in  bodies.  Then  he  was  aware  of  them, 
bodies,  before  of  them  coloured.  How?  By  knocking  his  sconce 
against  them,  sure.  Go  easy.  Bald  he  was  and  a  millionaire, 
maestro  di  color  ceh  sanno.  Limit  of  the  diaphane  in.  Why  in? 
Diaphane,  adiaphane.  If  you  can  put  your  five  fingers  through  it 
it  is  a  gate,  if  not  a  door.    Shut  your  eyes  and  see. 

Stephen  closed  his  eyes  to  hear  his  boots  crush  crackling  wrack 
and  shells.  You  are  walking  through  it  howsomeever.  I  am,  a 
stride  at  a  time.  A  very  short  space  of  time  through  very  short 
times  of  space.  Five,  six:  the  Nacheinander.  Exactly:  and  that  is 
the  ineluctable  modality  of  the  audible.  Open  your  eyes.  No. 
Jesus  !  If  I  fell  over  a  cliff  that  beetles  o'er  his  base,  fell  through 
the  Nebeneinander  ineluctably  I  am  getting  on  nicely  in  the  dark. 


32 


The    Little    Review 


My  ash  sword  hangs  at  my  side.  Tap  with  it:  they  do.  My  two 
feet  in  his  boots  are  at  the  end  of  my  two  legs,  nebeneinander. 
Sounds  solid:  made  by  the  mallet  of  Los  demiurgos.  Am  I  walking 
into  eternity  along  Sandymount  strand?  Crush,  crack,  crick,  crick. 
Wild  sea  money.    Dominie  Deasy  kens  them  a'. 

Won't  you  come  to  Sandymount,  - 
Madeline  the  mare? 

Rhythm  begins,  you  see.  I  hear.  Catalectic  tetrameter  of 
iambs  marching.    No,  agallop:  deline  the  mare. 

Open  your  eyes  now.  I  will.  One  moment.  Has  all  vanished 
since?  If  I  open  and  am  for  ever  in  the  black  adiaphana!  Basta. 
I  will  see  if  I  can  see. 

See  now.  There  all  the  time  without  you:  and  ever  shall  be, 
world  without  end. 

They  came  down  the  steps  from  Leahy's  terrace  prudently, 
Frauenzimmer:  and  down  the  shelving  shore  flabbily,  their  splayed 
feet  sinking  in  the  silted  sand.  Like  me,  like  Algy,  coming  down 
to  our  mighty  mother.  Number  one  swung  lourdily  her  midwife's 
bag,  the  other  a  gamp  poking  in  the  beach.  From  the  liberties,  out 
for  the  day.  Mrs.  Florence  MacCabe,  relict  of  the  late  Patk  Mac- 
Cabe,  deeply  lamented,  of  Bride  Street.  One  of  her  sisterhood 
lugged  me  squealing  into  life.  Creation  from  nothing.  What  has 
she  in  the  bag?  A  misbirth  with  a  trailing  navelcord,  hushed  in 
ruddy  wool.  The  cords  of  all  link  back,  strandentwining  cable  of 
all  f!esh.  That  is  why  mystic  monks.  Will  you  be  as  gods?  Gaze 
in  your  omphalos.  Hello.  Kinch  here.  Put  me  on  to  Edenville. 
Aleph,  alpha:  nought,  nought,  one. 

Spouse  and  he^mate  of  Adam  Kadmon:  Heva,  naked  Eve. 
She  had  no  navel.  Gaze.  Belly  without  belmish,  bulging  big,  a 
buckler  of  taut  vellum,  no,  whiteheaped  corn,  orient  and  immortal, 
standing  from  everlasting  to  everlasting.    Womb  of  sin. 

Wombed  in  sin  darkness  I  was  too,  made  not  begotten."  By 
them,  the  man  with  my  voice  and  my  eyes  and  a  ghostwoman  with 
ashes  on  her  breath.  They  clasped  and  sundered,  did  the  couple's 
will.  From  before  the  ages  He  willed  me  and  now  may  not  will  me 
away  or  ever.  A  lex  eterna  stays  about  him.  Is  that  then  the 
divine  substance  wherein  Father  and  Son  are  consubstantial ? 
When  is  Arius  to  answer?     Warring  his  life  long  on  the  contrnas- 


The    Little    Review  33 


magnificandjewbangtantiality?  Illstarred  heresiarch!  In  a  Greek 
watercloset  he  breathed  his  last:  euthanasia.  With  beaded  mitre 
and  with  crozier,  stalled  upon  his  throne,  widower  of  a  widowed  see, 
with  upstiffed  omopborion,  with  clotted  hinderparts. 

Airs,  romped  around  him,  nipping  and  eager  airs.  They  are 
coming,  waves.  The  whitemaned  seahorses,  champing,  brightwind- 
bridled. 

I  mustn't  forget  his  letter  for  the  press.  And  after?  .  The 
Ship,  half  twelve.  By  the  way  go  easy  with  that  money  like  a  good 
young  imbecile.    Yes,  I  must. 

His  pace  slackened.  Here.  Am  I  going  to  Aunt  Sara's  or  not? 
My  consubstantial  father's  voice.  Did  you  see  anything  of  your 
artist  brother  Stephen  lately?  No?  Sure  re's  not  down  in  Stras- 
burg  terrace  with  his  aunt  Sally?  Couldn't  he  strike  a  bit  higher 
than  that,  eh?  And  and  and  tell  us  Stephen,  how  is  uncle  Si?  O, 
weeping  God,  the  things  I  married  into!  De  boys  up  in  de  hayloft. 
The  drunken  little  costdrawer  and  his  brother,  the  cornet  player. 
Highly  respectable  gondoliers!  And  skeweyed  Walter  sirring  his 
father,  no  less!  Sir.  Yes,  sir.  No,  sir.  Jesus  wept:  and  no  wonder 
by  Christ! 

I  pull  the  wheezy  bell  of  their  shuttered  cottage:  and  wait. 
They  take  me  for  a  dun,  peer  out  from  a  coign  of  vantage. 

— It's  Stephen,  sir. 

— Let  him  in.     Let  Stephen  in.  ' 

A  bolt  drawn  back  and  Walter  welcomes  me. 

— We  thought  you  were  someone  else. 

In  his  broad  bed  uncle  Richie,  pillowed  and  blanketed,  extends 
over  the  hillock  of  his  knees  a  sturdy  forearm.  Cleanchested.  He 
has  washed  the  upper  moiety. 

— Morrow,  nephew. 

He  lays  aside  the  lapboard  whereon  he  drafts  his  bills  of  costs 
for  the  eyes  of  Master  Goff  and  Master  Tandy,  filing  consents  and 
common  searches  and  a  writ  of  Duces  Tecum.  A  bogoak  frame 
over  his  bald  head:  Wilde's  lequiescat.  The  drone  of  his  mislead- 
ing whistle  brings  Walter  back. 

— Yes,  sir? 

— Malt  for  Richie  and  Stephen,  tell  mother.     Where  is  she? 

— Bathing  Crissie,  sir. 

Papa's  little  lump  of  love. 


34  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

— No,  uncle  Richie 

— Call  me  Richie.     Whusky! 

— Uncle  Richie,  really 

—Sit  down  or  by  the  law  Harry  I'll  knock  you  down. 

Walter  squints  vainly  for  a  chair. 

— He  has  nothing  to  sit  down  on,  sir. 

— He  has  nowhere  to  put  it,  you  mug.  Bring  in  our  Chippen- 
dale chair.  Would  you  like  a  bite  of  something?  None  of  your 
damned  lawdeedaw  airs  here;  a  rasher  fried  with  a  herring?  Sure? 
So  much  the  better.  We  have  nothing  in  the  house  but  backache 
pills. 

AlVerta! 

He  drones  bars  of  Ferrando's  aria  di  sortita.  The  grandest 
number  Stephen,  in  the  whole  opera.    Listen. 

His  tuneful  whistle  sounds  again,  finely  shaded,  with  rushes  of 
air,  his  fists  bigdrumming  on  his  padded  knees. 

This  wind  is  sweeter. 

Houses  of  decay,  mine,  his  and  all.  You  told  the  Clongowes 
gentry  you  had  an  uncle  a  judge  and  an  uncle  a  general  in  the  army. 
Come  out  of  them,  Stephen.  Beauty  is  not  there.  Nor  in  the  stag- 
nant bay  of  Marsh's  library  where  you  read  the  fading  prophecies 
of  Joachim  Abbas.  For  whom?  The  hundredheaded  rabble  of  the 
cathedral  close.  A  hater  of  his  kind  ran  from  them  to  the  wood  of 
madness,  his  mane  foaming  in  the  moon,  his  eyeballs  stars.  Houy- 
hnhnm,  horsenostrille'd.  The  oval  equine  faces,  Temple,  Buck  Mul- 
ligan, Foxy  Campbell,  Lanternjaws.  Abbas  father,  furious  dean 
what  offence  laid  fire  to  their  brains.  Paff!  Descends,  calve,  ut  ne 
amplius  decalveris.  A  garland  of  grey  hair  on  his  comminated  head 
see  him  now  clambering  down  to  the  footpace,  (descende),  clutching  a 
monstrance,  basliskeyed.  Get  down,  baldpoll!  A  choir  gives  back 
menace  and  echo,  assisting  about  the  altar's  horns,  the  snorted 
Latin  of  jackpriests  moving  burly  in  their  albs,  tonsured  and  oiled 
and  gelded,  fat  with  the  fat  of  the  kidneys  of  wheat.  And  at  the 
same  instant  perhaps  a  priest  round  the  corner  is  elevating  it. 
Dringdring!  And  two  streets  off  another  locking  it  into  a  pyx. 
Dringadring!  And  in  a  ladychapel  another  taking  housel  all  to  his 
own  cheek.  Dringdring!  Down,  up,  forward  back.  Occam  thought 
of  that,  invincible  doctor.  A  misty  English  morning  the  imp  tick- 
led his  brain.     Brining  his  host  down  and  kneeling  he  heard  twine 


Tke    Little    Review  35 

with  his  second  bell  the  first  bell  in  the  transept  (he  is  lifting  his) 
and,  rising,  heard  (now  I  am  lifting)  their  two  bells  (he  is  kneel- 
ing) twang  in  diphthong. 

Cousin  Stephen,  you  will  never  be  a  saint.  Isle  of  saints.  You 
were  awfully  holy,  weren't  you?  You  prayed  to  the  Blessed  Virgin 
that  you  might  not  have  a  red  nose.  You  prayed  to  the  devil  in 
Serpentine  avenue  that  the  buxom  widow  in  front  might  lift  her 
clothes  still  more  from  the  wet  street.  0  si,  certo!  Sell  your  soul 
for  that,  do,  dyed  rags  pinned  round  a  squaw.  More  tell  me, 
more  still!  On  the  top  of  the  Hewth  tram  alone  crying  to  the  rain? 
naked  women!    naked  women!    What  about  that,  eh? 

What  about  what?    what  else  were  they  invented  for? 

Reading  two  pages  apiece  of  seven  books  every  night  eh?  I 
was  young.  You  bowed  to  yourself  in  the  mirror,  stepping  forward 
to  applause  earnestly,  striking  face.  Hurray  for  the  Goddamned 
idiot!  Hray!  No-one  saw:  tell  no-one.  Books  you  were  going  to 
write  with  letters  for  titles.  Have  you  read  his  F?  O  yes,  but  I 
prefer  Q.  Yes,  but  W  is  wonderful.  0  yes,  W.  Remember  your 
epiphanies  on  green  oval  leaves,  deeply  deep,  copies  to  be  sent  if 
you  died  to  all  the  great  libraries  of  the  world,  including  Alexandria? 
Someone  was  to  read  them  there  after  a  few  thousand  years,  a 
mahamanyantara.  Pico  della  Mirandola  like.  Ay,  very  like  a  whale. 
WTien  one  reads  these  strange  pages  of  one  long  gone  one  feels  that 
one  is  at  one  with  one  who  once 

The  grainy  sand  had  gone  from  under  his  feet.  His  boots  trod 
again  a  damp  crackling  mast,  razorshells,  squeaking  pebbles,  that 
on  the  unnumbered  pebbles  beats,  wood  sieved  by  the  shipworm,  lost 
armada.  Unwholesome  sandflats  waited  to  suck  his  treading  soles, 
breathing  upward  sewage  breath.  He  coasted  them,  walking  warily. 
A  porterbottle  stood  up,  pitted  to  its  waist,  in  the  cakey  sand  dough. 
A  sentinel:  isle  of  dreadful  thirst.  Broken  hoops  on  the  shore;  at 
the  land  a  maze  of  dark  cunning  nets;  farther  away  chalkscrawled 
backdoors  and  on  the  higher  beach  a  dryingline  with  two  crucified 
shirts.  Ringsend:  wigwams  of  brown  steersmen  and  master  mari- 
ners.    Human  shells. 

He  halted.  I  have  passed  the  way  to  aunt  Sara's.  Am  I  not 
going  there?  Seems  not.  No-one  about.  He  turned  northeast 
and  crossed  the  firmer  sand  towards  the  Pigeonhouse. 

— Qui  vous  a  mis  dans  cette  jichiie  position? 


36.  T  he    Lit  1 1  e    Review 

— C'est  le  pigeon,  Joseph. 

Patrice,  home  on  furlough,  lapped  warm  milk  with  me  in  the 
bar  MacMahon.  Son  of  the  wild  goose,  Kevin  Egan  of  Paris.  My 
father's  a  bird,  he  lapped  the  sweet  lait  chaud  with  pink  young 
tongue,  plump  bunny's  face.  Lap,  lapin.  He  hopes  to  win  in  the 
groslets.  About  the  nature  of  women  he  read  in  Michelet.  But  he 
must  send  me  La  Vie  de  Jesus  by  Mr.  Leo  Taxil.  Lent  it  to  his 
friend. 

— C'est  tordant,  vous  savez.  Mo'i,  je  suis  socialiste.  Je  ne 
crois  pas  a  I'existence  de  Dieu.    Pant  pas  le  dire  a  mon  pere. 

—II  croit? 

— Mon  pere,  oui. 

Schliiss.  He  laps. 
.  My  latin  quarter  hat.  God,  we  simply  must  dress  the  char- 
acter. I  want  puce  gloves.  You  were  a  student,  weren't  you?  Of 
what  in  the  other  devil's  name?  Paysayenn.  P.  C.  N.,  you  know: 
physiques,  chimiques  et  naturellcs.  Aha.  Eating  your  groatsworth 
of  mon  en  civet,  fleshpots  of  Egypt,  elbowed  by  belching  cabmen. 
Just  say  in  the  most  natural  tone:  when  I  was  in  Paris  I  used  to. 
Yes,  used  to  carry  punched  tickets  to  prove  an  alibi  if  they  arrested 
you  for  murder  somewhere.  Justice.  On  the  night  of  the  seventeenth 
of  February  1904  the  prisoner  was  seen  by  two  witnesses.  Other 
fellow  did  it:  other  me.  Hat,  tie,  overcoat,  nose.  Liii,  c'est  moi. 
You  seem  to  have  enjoyed  yourself. 

Proudl-y  walking.  Whom  were  you  trying  to  walk  like?  Forget: 
a  dispossessed.  With  mother's  money  order,  eight  shillings,  the 
barrier  of  the  post  office  shut  in  your  face  by  the  usher.  Hunger 
toothache.  Encore  deux  minutes.  Look  clock.  Must  get.  Ferme. 
Hired  dog!  Shoot  him  to  bloody  bits  with  a  bang  shotgun,  bits 
man  spattered  walls  all  brass  buttons.  Bits  all  khrrrklak  in  place 
clack  back.  Not  hurt?  O,  that's  all  right.  Shake  hands.  See  what 
I  meant,  see?  O,  that's  all  right.  Shake  a  shake.  O,  that's  all  only 
all  right. — 

You  were  going  to  do  wonders,  what?  Missionary  to  Europe 
after  fiery  Columbanus.  Pretending  to  speak  broken  English  as 
you  dragged  your  valise,  porter  threepence,  across  the  slimy  pier 
at  Newhaven.  Comment?  Rich  booty  you  brought  back;  five  tat- 
tered numbers  of  Pantalon  Blanc  et  Culotte  Rouge;  a  blue  French 
telegram,  curiosity  to  show: 


The    Little    Review  37 

— Mother  dying  come  home  father. 

The  aunt  thinks  you  killed  your  mother.  That's  why  she 
won't. 

— Then  here's  a  health  to  Mulligan's  aunt 

And  I'll  tell  you  the  reason  why. 

She  always  kept  things  decent  in 

The  Hannigan  jamileye. 

His  feet  marched  in  sudden  proud  rhythm  over  tfie  sand  fur- 
rows, along  by  the  boulders  of  the  south  wall.  He  stared  at  them 
proudly,  piled  stone  mammoth  skulls.  Gold  light  on  sea,  on  sand, 
on  boulders.    The  sun  is  there,  the  slender  trees,  the  lemon  houses. 

Paris  rawly  waking,  crude  sunlight  on  her  lemon  streets.  Moist 
pitih  of  farls  of  bread,  the  froggreen  wormwood,  her  matin  incense, 
court  the  air.  Belluomo  rises  from  the  bed  of  his  wife's  lover's  wife, 
the  kerchiefed  housewife  is  astir,  a  saucer  of  acetic  acid  in  her  hand. 
In  Rodot's  Yvonne  and  Madeleine  newmake  there  tumbled  beau- 
ties, shattering  with  gold  teeth  chaussons  of  pastry,  their  mouths 
yellowed  with  the  pus  of  jlan  breton.  Faces  of  Paris  men  go  by, 
their  well  pleased  pelasers,  curled  conquistadores. 

Noon  slumbers.  Kevin  Egan  rolls  gunpowder  cigarettes  through 
fingers  smeared  with  printer's  ink,  sipping  his  green  fairy  as  Pat- 
rice his  white.  About  us  gobblers  fork  spiced  beans  down  their  gul- 
lets. Un  demi  setter!  A  jet  of  coffee  steam  from  the  burnished 
caldron.  She  serves  me  at  his  beck.  Your  postprandial,  do  you 
know  that  word?  Postprandial.  There  was  a  fellow  I  knew  once 
in  Barcelona,  queer  fellow,  used  to  call  it  his  postprandial.  Well: 
sldinte!  Around  the  slabbed  tables  the  tangle  of  wined  breaths  and 
grumbling  gorges.  His  breath  hangs  over  our  saucestained  plates, 
the  green  fairy's  fang  thrusting  between  his  lips.  Of  Ireland,  the 
Dalcassians,  of  hopes,  conspiracies,  of  Arthur  Griffith  now.  To  yoke 
me  as  his  yokefellow,  our  crimes  our  common  cause.  His  fustian 
shirt  sanguinefiowered,  trembles  its  Spanish  tassels  at  his  secrets. 
Mr.  Drumont,  famous  journalist,  Drumont,  know  what  he  called 
queen  Victoria?  Old  hag  with  the  yellow  teeth.  Vieille  ogresse 
with  the  dents  jaunes.  Maud  Gonne,  la  Patrie,  Mr.  Millevoye,  Fe- 
lix Faure,  know  how  he  died?  Licentious  men.  The  froeken  who 
rubbed  his  nakedness  in  the  bath  at  Upsala.  Moi  jaire,  she  said. 
Tons  les  messieurs.  Most  licentious  custom.  Bath  a  most  private 
thing.     I  wouldn't  let  my  brother,  not  even  my  own  brother,  most 


38  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


lascivious  thing.  Green  eyes,  1  see  you.  Fang,  I  feel.  Lascivious 
people. 

The  blue  fuse  burns  deadly  between  hands  and  burns  clear. 
Loose  tobaccoshreds  catch  fire:  a  flame  and  acrid  smoke  lights  our 
corner.  Raw  facebones  under  his  peep  of  day  boy's  hat.  Hk)w  the 
head  centre  got  away,^  true  version.  Got  up  as  a  young  bride,  man, 
veil,  orangeblossoms,  drove  out  the  road  to  Malahide.  Did,  faith. 
Of  lost  leaders,  the  betrayed,  wild  escapes.  Disguises,  clutched  at, 
gone,  not  here. 

Spurned  lover.  I  was  a  strapping  young  gossoon  at  that  time,  I 
tell  you.  I'll  show  you  my  likeness  one  day.  I  was  faith.  Lover, 
for  her  love  he  prowled  witJi  colonel  Richard  Burke,  tanist  o  his  sept, 
under  the  walls  of  Clerkenwell  and,  crouching,  saw  a  flame  of  ven- 
geance hurl  them  upward  in  the  fog.  Shattered  glass  and  toppling 
masonry.  In  gay  Paree  he  hides,  Egan  of  Paris,  unsought  by  any 
save  by  me.  Making  his  day's  stations,  the  dingy  printingcase,  his 
three  taverns,  the  lair  in  Butte  Montmartre  he  sleeps  short  night  in 
rue  de  la  Goiitte  d'Or,  damascened  with  flyblown  faces  of  the  gone. 
Loveless,  landless,  wifeless.  She  is  quite  nicey  comfy  without  her 
outcast  man,  madame,  in  rue  Git-le-Coeur,  canary  and  two  buck 
lodgers.  Peachy  cheeks,  a  zebra  skirt,  frisky  as  a  young  thing! 
Spurned  and  undespairing.  Mon  jils,  soldier  of  France.  I  taught 
him  to  sing  The  boys  of  Kilkenny  are  stout  roaring  blades.  Know 
that  old  lay?  I  taught  Patrice  that.  Old  Kilkenny:  saint  Canice, 
Strongbow's  castle  on  the  Nore.  Goes  like  this .  O,  O.  He  takes 
me,  Napper  Tandy,  by  the  hand. 

— 0,  0  the  boysoj 

Kilkenny 

Weak  wasting  hand  on  mine.  They  have  forgotten  Kevin. 
Egan,  not  he  them.     Remembering  thee,  O  Sion. 

He  had  come  nearer  the  edge  of  the  sea  and  wet  sand  slapped 
his  boots.  The  new  air  greeted  him,  harping  in  wild  nerves,  wind 
of  wild  air  of  seeds  of  brightnes.s  Here,  I  am  not  walking  out  to 
the  Kish  lightship,  am  I?  He  stood  suddenly,  his  feet  beginning  to 
sink  slowly  in  the  quaking  soil.    Turn  back. 

Turning,  he  scanned  the  shore  south,  his  feet  sinking  again 
slowly  in  new  sockets.  The  cold  domed  room  of  the  tower  waits. 
Through  the  barbacans  the  shafts  of  light  are  moving  ever,  slowly 
ever  as  my  feet  are  sinking,  creeping  duskward  over  the  dial  floor. 


The    Little    Review  39 


Blue  dusk,  nightfall,  deep  blue  night.  In  the  darkness  of  the  dome 
they  wait,  their  pushedback  chairs,  my  obelisk  valise,  around  a 
board  of  abandoned  platters.  Who  to  clear  it?  He  has  the  key.  I 
will  not  sleep  there  when  this  night  comes.  A  shut  door  of  a  silent 
tower  entombing  their  blind  bodies,  the  panthersahib  and  his  pointer, 
Call:  no  answer.  He  lifted  his  feet  up  from  the  suck  and  turned 
back  by  the  mole  of  boulders.  Take  all.  My  soul  walks  with  me, 
form  of  forms.  So  in  the  moon's  midwatches  I  pace  the  path  above 
the  rocks,  in  sable  silvered,  hearing  Elsinore's  tempting  flood. 

The  flood  is  following  me.  I  can  watch  it  flow  past  from  here. 
Get  back  then  by  the  Poolbeg  road  to  the  strand  there.  He  climbed 
over  the  sedge  and  eely  oarweeds  and  sat  on  a  stool  of  rock,  resting 
his  ashplant  by  him. 

A  bloated  carcase  of  a  dog  lay  lolled  on  bladderwrack.  Before 
him  the  gunwale  of  a  boat,  sunk  in  sand.  Un  coche  ensable  Louis 
Veuillot  called  Gautier's  prose.  These  heavy  sands  are  language 
tide  and  wind  have  silted  here.  And  these,  tJie  stoneheaps  of  dead 
builders,  a  warren  of  weasel  rats.  Hide  gold  there.  Try  it.  You 
have  some.  Sands  and  stones.  Heavy  of  the  past.  Sir  lout's  toys. 
Mind  you  don't  get  one  bang  on  the  ear.  I'm  the  bloody  well  gi- 
gant  rolls  all  them  bloody  well  boulders,  bones  for  my  stepping- 
stones.     Feefawfum.     I  zmellz  de  bloodz  odz  an  Iridzman. 

A  point,  live  dog,  grew  into  sight  running  across  the  sweep  of 
sand.  Lord,  is  he  going  to  attack  me?  Respect  his  liberty.  You 
will  not  be  master  of  otiiers  or  their  slave.  I  have  my  stick.  Sit 
tight.  From  farther  away,  walking  shoreward  across  from  the 
crested  tide,  figures,  two.  The  two  maries.  They  have  tucked  it 
safe  mong  the  bulrushes.  Peekaboo.  I  see  you.  No,  the  dog. 
He  is  running  back  to  them.    Who? 

Galleys  of  the  Lochlanns  ran  here  to  beach,  in  quest  of  prey, 
their  bloodbeaked  prows  riding  low  on  a  molten  pewter  surf.  Dane 
vikings,  tores  of  tomahawks  aglitter  on  their  breasts  when  Malachi 
wore  the  collar  of  gold.  A  school  of  turlehide  whales  stranded  in 
hot  noon,  spouting,  hobbling  in  the  shallows.  Then  from  the  starv- 
ing cagework  city  a  horde  of  jerkined  dwarfs,  my  people,  with  flay- 
ers' knives,  running,  scaling,  hacking  in  green  blubbery  whalemeat. 
Famine,  plague  and  slaughters.  Their  blood  is  in  me,  their  lusts  my 
waves.  I  moved  among  them  on  the  frozen  Liffey,  that  I,  a  change- 
ling, among  the  spluttering  resin  fires.  I  spoke  to  no-one:  none  to 
me. 


40 


The    Little    Review 


The  dog  s  bark  ran  toward  him,  stopped,  ran  back.  Dog  of 
my  enemy.  I  just  simply  stood  pale,  silent,  bayed  about.  Terribilia 
meditans.  A  primrose  doublet,  fortune's  knave,  smiled  on  my  fear. 
For  that  are  you  pining,  the  bark  of  their  applause?  Pretenders: 
live  their  lives.  The  Bruce's  brother,  Thomas  Fitzgerald,  silken 
knight,  Perkin  Warbeck,  York's  false  scion,  in  breechers  of  silk 
of  whiterose  ivory,  wonder  of  a  day,  and  Lambert  Simnd,  a  scullion 
crowned.  All  kings'  sons.  Paradise  of  pretenders  then  and  now. 
He  saved  men  from  drowning  and  you  shake  at  a  cur's  yelping.  But 
the  courtiers  who  mocked  Guido  in  or  san  Michele  were  in  their  own 

house.    House  of We  don't  want  any  of  your  medieval  ab- 

strusiosities.  Would  you  do  what  he  did?  A  boat  would  be  near,  a 
lifebuoy.  NaturlkJi,  put  there  for  you.  Would  you  or  would  you 
not?  The  man  that  was  drowned  nine  days  ago  off  Maidefi's  rock. 
They  were  waiting  for  him  now.  The  truth,  spit  it  out.  I  would 
want  to.  I  would  try.  I  am  not  a  strong  swimmer.  Water  cold 
soft.  When  I  put  my  face  into  it  in  the  basin  at  Clongowes.  Out 
quickly,  quickly!  Do  you  see  the  tide  flowing  quickly  in  an  all 
sides,  sheeting  the  beds  of  sand  quickly,  shellcocoacoloured?  If  I 
had  land  under  my  feet.  I  want  his  life  still  to  be  his,  mine  to  be 
mine.  A  drowning  man.  His  human  eyes  scream  to  me  out  of 
horror  of  his  death.  I  .  .  .  With  him  together  down  ....  I 
could  not  save  her.    Waters:  bitter  death:  lost. 

A  woman  and  a  man.    I  see  her  skirties.    Pinned  up,  I  bet. 

Their  dog  ambled  about  a  bank  of  dwindling  sand,  trotting, 
sniffing  on  all  sides.  Looking  for  something  lost  in  a  past  life. 
Suddenly  he  made  off  like  a  bounding  hare,  ears  flung  back,  chasing 
the  shadow  of  a  lowskimming  gull.  The  man's  shrieked  whistle 
struck  his  limp  ears.  He  turned,  hounded  back,  came  nearer,  trot- 
ted on  twinkling  shanks.  On  a  field  tenney  a  buck  trippant,  proper, 
unattired.  At  1±ie  lacefringe  of  the  tide  he  halted  with  stiff  fore- 
hoofs,  seawardpointed  ears.  His  snout  lifted  barked  at  the  wave- 
noise.  They  serpented  towards  his  feet,  curling,  unfurling  many 
crests,  every  ninth,  breaking,  plashing,  from  far,  from  farther  out, 
waves  and  waves. 

Cocklepickers.  They  wade  a  little  way  in  the  water  and, 
stooping,  soused  their  bags,  and,  lifting  them  again,  waded  out. 
The  dog  yelped  running  to  them,  reared  up  and  pawed  them,  drop- 
ping on  all  fours,  again  reared  up  at  them  with  mute  bearish  fawn- 


The    Little    Review  41 

ing.  Unheeded  he  kept  by  them  as  they  came  towards  the  drier 
sand,  a  rag  of  wolf's  tongue  redpanting  from  his  jaws.  His  speck- 
led body  ambled  ahead  of  them  and  then  set  off  at  a  calf's  gallop. 
The  carcase  lay  on  his  path.  He  stopped,  sniffed,  stalked  round 
it,  brother,  nosing  closer,  went  round  it,  sniffling  rapidly,  dogsniff, 
eyes  on  the  ground,  moves  to  one  great  goal.  Ah  poor  dogsbody! 
Here  lies  dogsbody's  body. 

— Tatters!     Out  of  that  you  mongrel! 

The  cry  brought  him  skulking  back  to  his  master  and  a  blunt 
bootless  kick  sent  him  unscathed  across  a  spit  of  sand,  crouched  in 
flight.  He  slunk  back  in  a  curve.  Doesn't  see  me.  Along  by  the 
edge  of  the  mole  he  dawdled,  smelt  a  rock  and,  from  under  a 
edge  of  the  mole  he  dawdled,  smelt  a  rock.  Something  he  buried 
there,  his  grandmother.  He  rooted  in  the  sand,  dabbling  and  delv- 
ing and  stopped  to  listen  to  the  air;  scraped  up  the  sand  again  with 
a  fury  of  his  claws,  soon  ceasing,  a  pard,  a  panther,  got  in  spouse- 
breach,  vulturing  the  dead. 

After  he  woke  me  up  last  night  same  dream  or  was  it?  Wait. 
Open  hallway.  Street  of  harlots.  Remember.  I  am  almosting  it. 
That  man  led  me,  spoke.  I  was  not  afraid.  The  melon  he  had 
he  held  against  my  face.  Smiled:  creamfruit  smell.  That  was  the 
rule  said.    In.     Come.     Red  carpet  spread.    You  will  see  who. 

Shouldering  their  bags  they  passed.  His  blued  feet  out  of  turned- 
up  trousers  slapped  the  clammy  sand,  a  dull  red  muffler  strangling 
his  unshaven  neck.  With  woman  steps  she  followed:  the  ruffian 
and  his  strolling  mort,  spoils  slung  at  her  back.  Loose  sand  and 
shellgrit  crusted  her  bare  feet.  About  her  windraw  face  her  hair 
trailed.  Behind  her  lord  his  helpmate,  trudging  to  Romeville. 
When  night  hides  her  body's  flaws  calling  under  her  brown  shawl 
from  an  archway  where  dogs  have  mired.  Her  fancyman  is  treating 
two  Royal  Dublins  in  O'Loughlin's  of  Blackpitts.  Buss  her,  wap 
in  rogues'  rum  lingo,  for,  O,  my  dimber  wapping  dell  A  shefiend's 
whitenes  under  her  rancid  rage.  Fumbally's  lane  that  night:  the 
tanyard  smells. 

White  thy  famhles,  red  tJiy^gan 

And  thy  quarrons  dainty  is. 

Couch  a  hogshead  with  me  then: 

In  the  darkmans  dip  and  kiss. 

Morose  delectation  Aquinas  tunbelly  calls  this,  frate  porcospino. 


42  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 


Call  away  let  him:  thy  quarrons -dainty  is.  Language  no  whit  worse 
than  his.  Monkwords,  marybeads  jabber  on  their  girdles:  rogue- 
words,  tough  nuggets  patter  in  their  pockets. 

Passing  now. 

A  side-eye  at  my  Hamlet  hat.  If  I  were  suddenly  naked  here 
as  I  sit?  I  am  not.  Across  the  sands  of  all  the  world,  followed  by 
the  sun's  flaming  sword,  to  the  west,  to  evening  lands.  She  trudges, 
schlepps,  trains,  drags,  trascines  her  load.  A  tide  westering,  moon- 
drawn,  in  her  wake,  Ides,  myriadislanded,  within  her,  blood  not 
mine,  o'mopa  ponton,  a  winedark  sea.  Behold  the  handmaid  of  the 
moon.  In  sleep  the  wet  sign  calls  her  hour,  bids  her  rise.  Bridebed, 
childbed,  bed  of  death,  ghostcandled.  Ontnis  caro  ad  te  veniet.  He 
comes,  pale  vampire,  through  storm  his  eyes,  his  bat  sails  bloodying 
the  sea,  mouth  to  her  mouth's  kiss. 

Here.  Put  a  pin  in  that  chap,  will  you?  My  tablet.  Mouth 
to  her  kiss.  No.  Must  be  two  of  em.  Glue  em  well.  Mouth  to 
her  mouth's  kiss. 

His  lips  lipped  and  mouthed  fleshless  lips  of  air:  mouth  to  her 
moomb.  Oomb,  allwombing  tomb.  His  mouth  moulded  issuing 
breath,  unspeeched:  ooeeehah:  roar  of  oataractic  planets,  globed, 
blazing,  roaring  wayawayawayawayawayaway.  Paper.  The  bank- 
notes, blast  them.  Old  Deasy's  letter.  Here.  Thanking  you  for 
the  hospitality  tear  the  blank  end  off .  Turning  his  back  to  the  sun 
he  bent  over  far  to  a  table  of  rock  and  scribbled  words.  That's 
twice  I  forgot  to  take  slips  from  the  library  counter. 

His  shadow  lay  over  the  rocks  as  he  bent,  ending.  Why  not 
endless  till  the  farthest  star?  Darkly  they  are  there  behind  this 
light,  darkness  shining  in  the  brightness,  delta  of  Cassiopeia, 
worlds.  Me  sits  there  with  his  augur's  rod  of  ash,  in  borrowed  san- 
dals, by  day  beside  a  livid  sea,  unbeheld,  in  violet  night  walking 
beneath  a  reign  of  uncouth  stars.  I  throw  this  ended  shadow  from 
me,  call  it  back.  Endless,  would  it  be  mine,  form  of  my  form? 
Who  watches  me  here?  Who  ever  anywhere  will  read  these  written 
words?  Signs  on  a  white  field.  Somewhere  to  someone  in  your  flu- 
tiest  voice.  The  good  bishop  of  Cloyne  took  the  veil  of  the  temple 
out  of  his  shovel  hat:  veil  of  space  with  coloured  emblems  hatched 
on  its  field.  Hold  hard.  Coloured  on  a  flat:  yes,  that's  right.  Flat 
I  see,  then  think  distance,  near,  far,  flat  I  see,  east,  back  .  Ah,  see 
now!     Falls  back  suddenly  frozen  in  stereoscope.     Click  does  the 


The    Little   Review  43 

trick.  You  find  my  words  dark.  Darkness  is  in  our  souls  do  you 
not  think?  Flutier.  Our  souls,  shamewounded  by  our  sins,  cling  to 
us  yet  more,  a  woman  to  her  lover  clinging,  the  more  the  more. 

She  trusts  me,  her  hand  gentle,  the  longlashed  eyes.  Now 
where  the  blue  hell  am  I  bringing  her  beyond  the  veil?  Into  the 
ineluctable  modality  of  the  ineluctable  visuality.  She,  she,  she. 
What  she?  The  virgin  at  Hodges  Riggis'  window  on  Monday  look- 
ing in  for  one  of  the  alphabet  books  you  were  going  to  write.  Keen 
glance  you  gave  her.  Wrist  through  the  braided  jesse  of  her  sun- 
shade. She  lives  in  Leesonp  ark,  a  lady  of  letters.  Talk  that  to 
someone  else,  Stevie:  a  pickmeup.  Bet  she  wears  those  curse  of 
God  stays  suspenders  and  yellow  stockings,  darned  with  lumpy 
wool.  Talk  about  apple  dumpling,  piuttosto.  Where  are  your 
wits? 

Touch  me.  Soft  eyes.  Soft  soft  soft  hand.  I  am  lonely  here. 
0,  touch  me  soon,  now.  What  is  that  word  known  to  all  men?  I 
am  quiet  here  alone.    Sad  too.    Touch,  touch  me. 

He  lay  back  at  full  stretch  over  the  sharp  rocks,  cramming  the 
scribbled  note  and  pencil  into  a  pocket,  his  hat  tilted  down  on  his 
eyes.  That  is  Kevin  Egan's  movement  I  made,  nodding  for  his 
nap  .  Hlo!  Bon  jour.  Under  its  leaf  he  watched  through  peacock- 
twittering  laShes  the  southing  sun.  I  am  caught  in  this  burning 
scene.  Pan's  hour,  the  faunal  noon.  Among  gumheavy  serpent- 
plants,  milkoozing  fruits,  where  on  the  tawny  waters  leaves  lie 
wide.    Pain  is  far. 

And  no  more  turn  aside  and  brood. 

His  gaze  brooded  on  his  broadtoed  boots,  a  buck's  castoffs, 
nebeneinander.  He  counted  the  creases  of  rucked  leather  wherein 
another's  foot  had  nested  warm.  The  foot  that  beat  the  ground  in 
tripudium,  foot  I  dislove.  But  you  were  delighted  when  Esther  Os- 
valt's  shoe  went  on  you:  girl  I  knew  in  Paris.  Tiens,  quel  petit  pied! 
Staunch  friend,  a  brother  soul:  Wilde's  love  that  dare  not  speak  its 
name.  He  now  will  leave  me.  And  the  blame?  As  I  am.  All  or 
not  at  all. 

In  long  lassos  from  the  Cock  lake  the  water  flowed  full,  cov- 
ering grenngoldenly  lagoons  of  sand,  rising,  flowing.  My  ashplant 
will  float  away.  I  shall  wait.  No,  they  will  pass  on,  passing  chafing 
agains  the  low  rocks,  swirling,  passing.  Better  get  this  job  over 
quick.    Listen:  a  fourworded  wavespeech:  seesoo,  hrss,  rsseeiss  ooos. 


44  The    Little    Review 

Vehement  breath  of  waters  amid  seasnakes,  rearing  horses,  rocks. 
In  cups  of  rocks  it  slops:  flop,  slop,  slap:  bounded  in  barrels.  And, 
spent,  its  speech  ceases.  It  flows  purling,  widely  flowing,  floating 
foampool,  flower  unfurling. 

tinder  the  upswelling  tide  he  saw  the  writhing  weeds  lift  lan- 
guidly and  sway  reluctant  arms,  hising  up  their  petticoats,  in  whis- 
pering water  swaying  and  upturning  coy  silver  fronds.  Day  by 
day:  night  by  night:  lifted,  flooded  and  let  fall:  Lord,  they  are 
weary:  and,  whispered  to,  they  sigh.  Saint  Ambrose  heard  it,  sigh 
of  leaves  and  waves,  waiting,  awaiting  the  fulness  of  their  times, 
diehiis  ac  noctibus  iniurias  p aliens  ingemiscit.  To  no  end  gathered: 
vainly  then  released,  forthflowing,  wending  back:  loom  of  the  moon. 
Weary  too  in  sight  of  lovers,  lascivious  men,  a  naked  woman  shining 
in  her  court,  she  draws  a  toil  of  waters. 

Five  fathoms  out  there.  Full  fathom  five  thy  father  lies.  At 
one  he  said.  High  water  at  Dublin  bar.  Driving  before  it  a  loose 
drift  of  rubble,  fanshoals  of  fishes,  silly  shells.  A  corpse  rising  salt- 
white  from  the  undertow,  bobbing  landward.  There  he  is.  Hook 
it  quick.    Pull.    We  have  him.    Easy  nov*^. 

Bag  of  corpsegas  sopping  in  foul  brine.  A  quiver  of  minnows, 
fat  of  a  spongy  titbit,  flash  through  the  slits  of  his  buttoned  trouser- 
fly.  God  becomes  man  becomes  fish  becomes  barnacle  goose  be- 
comes featherbed  mountain.  Dead  breaths  I  living  breathe,  tread 
dead  dust,  devour  a  urinous  offal  from  all  dead.  Hauled  stark  over 
the  gunwale  he  breathes  upward  the  stench  of  his  green  grave,  his 
leprous  nosehole  snoring  to  the  sun. 

A  seachange  this.  Seadeath,  mildest  of  all  death's  known  to 
man.  Prix  de  Paris:  beware  of  imitations.  Just  you  give  it  a  fair 
trial.    We  enjoyed  ourselves  immensely. 

Come.  Clouding  over.  No  black  clouds  anywhere,  are  there? 
Thunderstorm.  No.  My  cockle  hat  and  staff  and  hismy  sandal 
shoon.    \\^ere?    To  evening  lands.    Evening  will  find  itself. 

He  took  the  hilt  of  his  ashplant,  lunging  with  it  softly,  dallying 
still.  Yes,  evening  will  find  itself  in  me,  without  me.  All  days 
make  their  end.  By  the  way  next  when  is  it  Tuesday  will  be  the 
longest  day.  Of  all  the  glad  new  year,  mother,  the  rum  tum  tiddledy 
tum.  Lawn  Tennyson,  gentleman  poet.  Gia.  For  the  old  hag 
with  the  yellow  teeth.  And  Monsieur  Drumont,  gentleman  journa- 
lis  Gia.    My  teeth  are  very  bad.     Why,  I  wonder?     Feel,     That 


The   Little    Review 


45 


one  is  going  to.  Shells.  Ought  I  go  to  a  dentist,  I  wonder,  with  that 
money?  That  one.  This.  Toothless  Kinch,  the  superman.  Why 
is  that,  I  wonder,  or  does  it  mean  something  perhaps? 

My  handkerchief.  He  threw  it.  I  remember.  Did  I  not 
take  it  up? 

His  hand  groped  vainly  in  his  pockets.  No.  I  didn't.  Better 
buy  one.  He  laid  the  dry  snot  picked  from  his  nostril  on  a  ledge  of 
rock,  carefully.    For  the  rest  let  look  who  will. 

Behind.     Perhaps  there  is  someone. 

He  turned  his  face  over  a  shoulder,  rere  regardant.  Moving 
through  the  air  high  spars  of  a  threemaster,  her  sails  brailed  up  on 
the  crosstrees,  homing,  silently  moving,  a,  silent  ship. — 

{to  be  continued) 


NOCTURNE 

Ben    Hecht 

IT  IS  easy  to  think  in  the  streets  at  night.  So  I  sometimes  walk 
_  about  the  city  long  after  the  fat  world  has  gone  to  sleep. 
I  have,  like  a  great  many  other  people  whom  I  do  not  know,  a  curi- 
ous lack  of  emotion.  This  thing  is  "tailed  restlessness.  In  the 
streets  at  night  my  unrest  becomes  a  mild  and  gentle  sorrow  and 
gives  birth  to  numerous  adjectives.  I  walk  on  and  on  and  the  ad- 
jectives form  themselves  into  remarkable  thoughts  that  sometimes 
startle  me  and  cause  me  to  forget  to  listen  to  the  castenets  of  my 
heels  upon  the  lonely  pavement. 

The  little  greedy  half-dead  are  in  their  beds.  The  night  like  an 
army  possesses  the  city,  swarms  upon  the  buildings.  In  my  walking 
I  have  a  habit  of  likening  the  night  to  different  things.  It  is  a  little 
game  that  diverts  me  and  also  causes  me  to  forget  to  listen  to  the 
sound  of  my  heels  upon  the  lonely  pavement.  Later  I  try  to  re- 
member these  images  that  came  to  me  as  I  was  walking  and  curse 
myself  for  an  idiot  and  a  profligate.  For  the  night  has  a  way  of 
making  a  careless  and  unselfish  lover  even  of  a  poet. 


46  The    Little    Review 


On  this  night  I  walked  with  my  thoughts  full  of  the  grimaces 
of  the  little  greedy  half-dead  become  now  no  preposterously  silent. 
Through  the  little  empty  labyrinths  of  stone  the  centures  sighed 
their  desolation.  Yellow  and  lonely  advertisements  burned  here 
and  there  above  invisible  roofs,  and  I  observed  that  the  buildings 
which  were  so  important  by  day,  the  great  perferated  rectangles  of 
stone,  the  streets  that  fulfilled  the  mighty  functions  of  traffic,  lay 
under  the  stars  like  some  gloomy,  useles  toyland.  The  city  was  an 
anachronism  in  the  night.  Silence  with  its  dark  and  enigmatic  face 
stared  at  the  sky.  The  moon  made  inanimate  blue  fire-fiies  of  the 
windows. 

'  What  a  racket  there  was  in  these  street  by  day.  A  rumble 
and  a  mumble  and  a  bang,  bang,  bang.  The  shuffle  of  feet  like  the  ■ 
sound  of  a  harsh  wind.  And  I  remember  having  watched  the  smoke 
of  factories  toppling  at  a  precise  angle  out  of  chimney  mouths  and 
drawn  in  grey  black  awning  stripes  across  a  blue  sky,  and  the  little 
greedy  half-dead  with  their  endless  faces  and  their  innumerable  hats 
and  their  indomitable  complacencies  crawling  as  usual  along  the 
treadmill  of  time  and  vastly  excited  about  it. 

But  now  the  immemorial  smear  of  gestures  had  gone  to  bed. 
The  millions  had  taken  off  their  clothes  and  lay  silent  in  the  im- 
memorial and  hairy  democracy  of  their  skins.  There  was  some- 
thing beguiling  in  the  thought  that  all  the  countless  and  unneces- 
sary people  I  saw  during  the  day  were  practically  naked  at  that 
moment.  Stretched  on  their  bellies  and  their  backs  they  lay  in 
fantastic  imitation  of  their  sincerer  brethern  packed  away  under 
the  earth. 

It  was  night  and  the  world  was  almost  rid  of  its  race.  There 
remained  only  the  figures  like  myself,  the  isolate  and  furtive  figures 
of  the  night  that  move  here  and  there  in  the  shadows.  What  a  melo- 
dramatic company  we  are.  A  few  murderers  standing  like  bold 
merchants  on  desolate  street  corners.  A  few  prostitutes  with  the 
most  practical  of  intentions.  And  a  little  scattered  army  of  the  Tin- 
catalogued.  The  fat  world  sleeps  with  its  window  cautiously  opened 
three  inches,  for  it  is  autumn  and  chill,  the  while  we  move  about 
adventuring  on  the  treadmill. 

Perhaps  I  lied  when  I  said  I  was  a  person  with  a  curious  lack 
of  emotion,  or  boasted.  For  there  was  in  me  as  I  walked  this  night 
the  knowledge  that  I  had  been  growing  older.     My  thoughts  were 


The    Little    Review  47 

sudh  that  I  stopped  to  wonder  under  the  menacing  shadow  of  what 
had  been  a  great  building  why  it  was  that  old  people  were  not 
always  weeping.  Already  I  had  begun  to  think  of  youth,  a  dreary 
omen. 

I  walked  on  until  I  came  to  the  climax  of  archtiectural  detail 
that  is  called  the  heart  of  the  city.  Here  the  night  seemed  broken 
into  great  lumps  of  shadows.  The  curious  hollow  pallor  like  the 
light  of  vacant  silver  eyes  hung  about  the  shafts  of  stone.  It  was 
as  if  the  night  had  found  itself  unable  to  efface  the  rumble  and  the 
mumble  and  the  endless  faces  of  the  day.  They  persisted  in  this 
dead  and  hollow  gleam  like  a  shout  that  has  just  died  or  eyes  that 
have  just  closed.  The  streets  and  their  spread  of  fan-like  temples, 
the  bleak,  glittering  windows  and  the  yellow  advertisements  burn- 
ing above  invisible  roofs  were  lonesome  for  gestures  and  grimaces 
and  noise. 

We  pass  each  other,  we  murderers,  prostitutes,  beggars,  wan- 
derers, vagabonds  and  thieves.  We  approach  each  other  in  the 
lonely,  desolate  streets,  muscles  tense,  jaws  set.  W^e  come  up  be- 
hind each  other  slowly,  maliciously.  For  we  are  a  different  company 
than  stuffs  the  streets  by  day. 

Thus  I  walked  through  the  heart  of  the  city,  noting  it  to  be  a 
place  of  suspended  thunders,  a  gloomy,  useless  toyland  whose  ela- 
borate geometries  were  almost  devoured  by  the  night.  Here  the 
great  hotels  cast  patches  of  light  upon  the  empty  sidewalks.  A  taxi 
cab  behind  which  trailed  the  wild  laugh  of  a  woman  darted  out  of 
gloom  and  swept  around  a  corner.  The  all-night  restaurants  were 
also  lighted.  They  made  each  a  little  oasis  in  the  night.  Within 
tihem  could  be  seen  through  the  large  patient  and  effulgent  windows, 
hunched  and  inanimate  figures  drinking  coffee.  Their  faces  were 
pale  and  they  stared  at  their  fingers. 

I  found  myself  before  the  entrance  of  a  theater.  Its  grimy 
little  facade  lighted  with  innumerable  yellow  lamps  strutted  out  of 
the  darknes,  a  dirty  and  insolent  gypsy  amid  the  black  tombstones 
in  this  funereal  street.  Gayety  and  entertainment  here  for  the  com- 
pany that  does  not  sleep  at  night.  Sardonic  lights  and  mocking 
lithographs,  eternal  joy  and  Saturnalian  defiance;  amid  them  in  a 
little  round  office  sat  a  fat  faced  blousy  eyed  woman  like  some  im- 
perturbable exile  selling  tickets  for  the  mysteries  of  Isis.  It  had 
grown  chill  and  a  weariness  had  come  over  me.     I  was  tired  of  my 


48  The    Little    Review 

adjectives.  Soon  the  little  greedy  half-dead  would  be  stirring  in 
their  millions  beds,  coming  larvalikc  into  these  waiting  streets.  I 
thought  of  long  brown  roads  flanked  by  red  leaved  trees  and  of  the 
processional  of  great  white-bellied  clouds  over  the  curving  stagnant 
iields.  What  a  strange  thing  is  the  city,  a  hard  faced  witch  babbling 
and  stinking.  And  here  the  mysteries  of  Isis,  the  forbidden  things 
before  the  triangular  altar  of  Astarte.  There  were  two  of  us,  my- 
self and  a  little  man  with  a  watery  face,  and  we  moved  into  the 
theater.     The  chill,  ferruginous  night  of  the  city  vanished. 

I  felt  as  if  I  had  suddenly  thrust  my  head  under  the  heavy 
dress  of  an  old  beggar  woman.  A  rusty  lavender  light  filled  the 
place  and  the  uncoiling  tinsel  of  tobacco  smoke  moved  in  spectral 
clouds  through  the  mephitic  gloom.  There  was  a  sharp  fish  like 
odor  that  swam  before  my  eyes  in  a  chlorinated  mist.  Beyond 
I  could  make  out  the  glare  and  sparkle  of  the  black  and  white 
shadows,  and  the  click  and  whirr  of  the  moving  picture  machine 
came  to  my  ears.  I  sat  down  with  a  feeling  of  relief  and  the  theater 
seemed  to  grow  brighter.  Heads  of  men  and  women  grew  out  of 
the  shadows  and  remained  motionlessly  sprinkled  here  and  there 
among  the  rows  of  seats.  On  the  moving  picture  screen  three  horses 
with  furious  muscles  were  galloping  at  break  neck  speed  over  the 
crest  of  a  sunlit  hill.  On  the  horses  bounced  three  men,  their  heads 
stiffened  and  tucked  down,  their  bodies  reaching  forward  like  claws 
in  the  wind. 

We  were  quite  distinct  now  in  our  seats,  a  silent,  brooding,  dis- 
interested company  of  heads  sprinkled  here  and  there.  The  reek 
and  stench  of  us  dragged  itself  along  the  walls  in  ulcerated  clouds 
and  circled  our  heads  in  violet  spirals.  These  figures  sat  in  their 
seats  as  if  they  had  been  dropped  from  a  great  height.  Their  faces 
spotted  the  gloom  with  little  luminous  patches  of  grey.  There  were 
snores  and  coughs  and  a  curious  unceasing  shuffling.  The  dark- 
ness continued  to  lift  as  if  some  half-hearted  dawn  were  approaching. 
Little  dog-faced  men,  old  men  with  faces  moulded  out  of  phlegim, 
women  with  scarred  drawn  skins,  a  shaggy,  lifeles  company  here, 
whose  heads,  as  I  closed  my  eyes,  remained  in  my  thoughts  a  hand- 
full  of  little  withered  nuts  gathering  mould. 

I  opened  my  eyes  and  against  the  wall  in  my  row  sat  an  old 
man  with  a  long  bony  face.  His  ragged  hat  was  pulled  down  over 
his  forehead  and  his  hair  stuck  out  in  whisps  from  under  it.     His 


The    Little    Review  49 


head  rested  against  the  wall  and  with  his  mouth  open  he  slept. 
His  body  was  folded  in  a  strange  angularity  in  the  seat.  His  coat 
was  tied  in  front  with  a  piece  of  yellow  rope  and  his  trousers  were 
opened.  In  the  lavender  gloom  his  face  had  an  ashen  mutilation. 
It  was  the  sunken,  inhuman  mask  of  one  long  unburied.  The  hands 
of  this  old  man  moved  about  as  he  slept.  He  was  dreaming.  His 
body  twitched  and  his  feet  crawled  with  elaborate  caution  about  on 
the  floor.  The  odor  which  came  from  him,  embracing  me  with  po- 
lite neighborly  insistence,  was  partially  explained  by  the  streaks  of 
vomit  on  his  clothes  and  the  color  of  his  hands.  A  line  of  Turgenieff 
entangeld  itself  in  my  thought. 

"How  red,  how  red  are  the  roses." 

On  the  moving  screen  a  man  with  remarkable  eyelashes  was 
pointing  a  gun  at  a  villain.  In  one  arm  this  man  held  a  clinging 
chrysanthemum-eyed  girl.  The  moving  picture  machine  from  some- 
where behind  me  whirred  and  clicked  and  spurted  forth  its  flickering, 
glazed  moonbeam.  I  looked  about  me.  Across  the  isle,  a  row  in 
front  of  where  I  sat,  were  two  figures  parted  by  several  seats.  The 
figure  on  the  isle  was  that  of  a  woman.  Her  face  seemed  to  be 
crudely  carved  out  of  rough  red  and  grey  stone.  She  had  a  wide 
mouth  and  a  flat  nose.  She  had  decourousely  removed  her  nat  and 
her  hair,  grey  and  green  under  the  violet  light  of  the  moving  picture 
ray,  was  visible.  A  pair  of  short  black  cotton  gloves  were  on  her 
hands  as  she  raised  them  one  at  a  time  to  scratch  at  the  back  of 
her  neck.  She  stared  with  round  parrot  eyes  at  the  pictures  in  front 
of  her,  chewing  vigorously,  swallowing  with  great  excitement  and 
rubbing  her  nose  with  a  forefinger  as  a  climax  to  her  enthusiasms. 
It  was  evident  that  the  pictures  were  effecting  her.  I  looked  again 
at  the  moving  picture  screen. 

The  man  with  the  remarkable  eyelashes  and  the  stiff  cupid's 
bow  mouth  had  come  to  grief.  He  lay  on  a  white  sunny  bed  and 
appeared  to  be  dying.  His  hair  was  carefully  combed.  The  chrys- 
anthemum eyed  girl  was  kneeling  at  his  bedside.  I  recalled  now 
having  seen  the  fellow  shot. 

The  old  woman's  chewing  gained  vigor  and  she  began  to  weep. 
Tears  moved  unnoticed  down  her  cheeks.  Her  forefinger  remained 
in  position  under  her  nose,  moving  violently  back  and  forth  as  the 
tears  lost  themselves  in  the  black  cotton  of  her  golve.  I  became 
aware  of  a  soft,  deliberately  spaced  hiss.     It  came  from  the  figure 


50  The    Little    Review 

that  sat  several  seats  to  the  left  of  the  old  woman. 

He  was  a  stocky  shouldered  man  with  a  black  haired  leonine 
head  and  strong  features.  His  flashing  dark  eyes  were  turned  upon 
the  old  woman.  He  was  hissing  to  her  and  making  perceptible  sig- 
nals with  his  chin.  There  was  something  eager  and  amorous  about 
this  man,  something  solid  and  Rodinesque  about  his  figure.  And 
the  old  woman,  noticing  him  through  her  tears,  looked  at  him  for 
several  moments  and  screwed  her  hard  slippery  face  into  a  hesitant 
smile.  A  strange  animation  came  upon  the  man.  His  shoulders 
twitched,  his  massive  head  bobbed  wierdly  about.  His  eyes  rolled 
in  their  sockets  and  his  mouth  opened  and  shining  with  teeth  made 
clucking  moist  sounds.  Twice  his  body  shot  forward  as  if  about 
to  crash  into  the  seats  and  then  straightened  to  remain  shaking 
from  side  to  side  like  the  vibrations  of  a  long  rope. 

The  old  woman  returned  her  eyes  to  the  picture,  but  she  ap- 
peared to  have  lost  her  enthusiasm.  Her  black  gloved  forefinger 
rested  in  her  lap.  Through  the  corners  of  her  eyes  she  observed  the 
large  headed  man  at  her  left.  He  had,  it  was  evident,  changed  his 
tactics.  The  flash  and  glitter  of  his  previous  emotion  were  gone 
from  his  face.  Instead  he  had  become  nervous,  querulous  and  plead- 
ing. He  was  making  little  mouths  with  his  strong,  large  lips  and 
pouting  like  an  aggrieved  boy.  He  tossed  his  leonine  head  in  little 
coquettries  and  then  suddenly  held  up  a  single  finger.  The  old 
woman  staring  at  this  elevated  .  finger  shook  her  head.  Whereat 
two  fingers  appeared  in  the  gloomy  air  and  remained  stiff  and  shak- 
ing like  amazing  words.  The  old  woman's  little  parrot  eyes  turned 
full  upon  him  and  stared  shrewdly  and  with  a  curious  disdain. 

There  was  a  violent  coughing  in  my  row.  The  old  man  with  the 
bony  face  had  awakened.  He  sneezed,  coughed,  rubbed  his  eyes 
and  straightened.  His  body  flopped  about  and  with  a  long,  twisted 
finger  he  began  to  scratch  behind  his  ear.  His  face  turned  dully 
toward  me  and  his  curious,  gelatinous  eyes  rested  on  me  as  if  I 
were  not  present.  His  face  reminded  me  of  the  breast  of  a  bird  that 
had  been  plucked.  As  I  looked  at  him  his  eyes  moved  from  me 
and  drifted  across  the  theater.  He  began  suddenly  to  wag  his  head 
and  blink  with  his  dead  lids  and  his  jaw  rose  on  one  side  in  a  grin. 
The  old  woman  across  the  isle  was  looking  at  him  and  smiling.  There 
wa^Pli  shuffle  and  clatter  in  my  isle  and  the  bony  faced  one  sprawled 
to  his  feet,  his  clothes  hanging  stiff  and  shapeless  from  him.     He 


The    Little    Review  51 

moved  by  me,  and  I  felt  the  thin  little  structure  of  his  body  under 
his  loose  rags  as  he  shoved  between  me  and  the  seat  backs.  An 
odor  of  herring  and  medicinal  decay  marked  his  passage.  He 
walked  up  to  the  old  woman,  his  feet  shuffling  along  the  floor  and 
tapped  her  on  the  shoulder.  The  old  woman  cast  a  quick,  con- 
temptuous glance  at  the  leonine  head  to  her  left,  and  rising  with  a 
chuckle,  walked  up  the  isle  after  the  shuffling,  ragged  figure.  There 
was  left  the  defeated  one. 

He  sat  with  a  look  of  wonder  on  his  face,  that  slowly  darkened, 
and  bit  at  the  nails  of  his  hands.  As  his  teeth  worked  in  a  growing 
ferocity  upon  his  nails  a  look  of  agony  came  into  his  eyes.  His 
shoulders  began  to  twitch.  He  lurched  about  like  a  man  drunk. 
Then  suddenly  he  disappeared. 

Out  of  the  row  of  seats  came  crawling  a  stump  of  a  man  whose 
body  was  fastened  with  straps  to  a  -square  board  on  four  little 
wheels.  The  head  of  this  man,  black-haired  and  leonine,  barely 
reached  to  the  tops  of  the  seats.  He  propelled  himself  by  swinging 
two  apelike  arms  back  and  forth.  In  his  huge  fists  he  held  two 
flat  irons.  Slowly  he  rolled  up  the  isle  and  came  opposite  me,  a 
half  born  thing  with  his  thick  torso  waving  snake-like  above  the 
floor.  He  stopped  and  raised  a  pair  of  flashing  eyes  and  glowered 
at  me.  His  face  worked  into  savage  and  undecided  grimaces.  His 
lips  twisted  and  a  drip  appeared  at  their  corners.  For  several  in- 
stants he  eyed  me  while  his  fury  kept  him  silent.  Then  his  voice 
burst  forth  coming  with  a  violent  incongruity  out  of  this  half  thing 
on  the  floor.  It  was  a  huge  gruff  voice,  that  of  a  man  fat  and 
towering. 

"Did  you  see  that?"  he  demanded.  His  hands  remained 
motionless  holding  the  flat  irons  to  the  floor.  "Did  you  see  it?  I 
had  her  first.  I  got  her  eye  first.  And  then  that  stew  butts  in. 
Didn't  I  have  her  first?" 

The  face  lifted  toward  me  twitched  and  the  fury  passed  out  of 
it.  In  its  place  came  a  curious  child-like  despair.  The  legless  man 
began  to  weep.  His  shoulders  jumped  up  and  down  in  great  sobs. 
His  voice  when  he  raised  it  again  had  become  a  whimper.  He 
stared  at  me  as  the  tears  climbed  out  of  his  eyes  and  smeared 
themselves  over  his  rugged  face. 

"She  beat  it  with  that  stew,"  he  said.  "Say,  honest  t'God 
didn't  I  have  her  first?"     He  rolled  on  up  the  isle  swinging  long 


52  The    Little    Review 


ape-like  arms. 

Outside  the  night  was  vanishing.  The  chill  morning  air  came 
like  a  scent  of  fresh  water  to  my  nose,  dried  by  the  odors  of  the 
theater.  People  were  moving  in  the  grey  streets.  At  the  end  of 
the  block  they  moved  in  a  thin  procession  across  the  car  iracKS,  a 
string  of  dark  figures  without  faces  and  shaped  like  sevens.  The 
city  was  waking.  The  rumble  and  the  mumble  and  the  bang,  bang, 
bang  had  started  again.  The  buildings  stretched  out  of  the  early 
mists.  From  a  corner  came  the  shout  of  a  man.  I  looked  over  and 
saw  beside  a  stand  heaped  with  fresh  newspapers  the  heavy,  dwarf 
like  stump  of  the  legless  man.  He  was  selling  papers.  He  raised 
his  voice  in  a  shout  as  we  of  the  little  thin  procession  moved  by. 
"Extra  here  ...  All  about  ..."  ' 

Evidently  things  had  been  happening  in  the  night. 


IMAGINARY     LETTERS 

(W.    Villerant    to    the    ex-Mrs.    Burn) 

Ezra  Pound 

My  dear  Lydia: 

Stupidity  is  a  pest,  a  baccillus,  an  infection,  a  raging  lion  that 
does  not  stay  in  one  place  but  perambulates.  When  two  fools  meet, 
a  third  springs  up  instanter  between  them,  a  composite  worse  than 
either  begetter.  We  see  the  young  of  both  sexes,  and  of  your  sex 
which  is  the  more  fluid,  sunk  into  amalgams;  into  domestic  and  com- 
munal amalgams. 

I  call  on  the  sisters  Randall,  they  are  in  the  studio  next  to  their 
own,  seeking  companionship.  I  am  deluged  with  an  half  hour's 
inanity,  breezy,  cheerful  inanity,  replies  that  were  "bright"  in  '92, 
replies  that  are  modeled  upon  the  replies  in  short  stories. 

People  imagine  that  to  speak  suddenly,  and  without  thinking 
beforehand,  is  to  be  brilliant.  It  feels  so.  The  elder  Faxton  writes 
stories  that  would  have  been  osee,  daring,  in  the  days  of  Ibsen's 
adolescence.  The  Soeurs  Randall  return  to  their  studio,  a  brace  of 
callers  is  waiting.    I  am  deluged  again  with  inanity,  bright,  cheery 


The    Little    Review  53 


inanity.    I  flee  waving  metaphorical  arms  like  a  windmill. 

Because  of  amalgams,  Bohemias  are  worth  avoiding.  The 
poor  ones  are  like  a  pool  full  of  froges'  eggs,  and  hordes  of  these 
globules  perish  annually.    I  mean  they  merge  into  suburbias. 

Of  the  crops  thrust  yearly  upon  the  metropolis  some  dry,  others 
through  small  fault  of  intellect,  through,  perhaps,  no  defect  of  pas- 
sion, but  merely  because  of  some  natal  commonness,  some  need  to 
plunge  back,  to  bathe  in  the  second  rate,  subside  into  suburbias. 

You  say  "What  is  suburbia".  You  quibble  and  suggest  that  I 
am  interested  in  ''Society".  My  dear  Lydia,  I  know  an  elderish  man, 
and  a  man  just  ceasing  to  be  young,  and  one  woman,  who  have  re- 
jected "Society."  and  two  who  are  untroubled  by  it  one  way  or  the 
other.  But  I  do  not  set  it  against  suburbias.  All  things  pass  under 
the  nose  of  my  microscope.  I  am  one  man  without  a  class  prejudice. 
It  is  perhaps  my  only  distinction.  But  Mayfair,  let  me  say,  is  not 
stupid.  Mayfair  is,  by  contrast,  fantastic.  Fantastic  arts  have  al- 
ways come  out  of  Mayfairs. 

An  eminent  dramatist,  I  can  not  say  a  distinguished,  but  at  least 
an  eminent  and  eminently  successful  dramatist,  travels  from  London 
to  Mudros  to  tell  a  naval  Lieutenant  that  he  disapproves  of  the  cut 
of  my  collar. 

It  partakes  of  Haroun  al  Raschid,  and  of  the  17th  century  spark 
who  set  out  to  play  ball  against  the  gates  of  Jerusalem.  Or  by  con- 
trast I  call  on  Mrs.  Herringham-Sheffington  at  the  instigation  of  Lady 
Houter,  who  is  absent .  I  wander  in  bored  despair.  I  discourse  at 
last,  and  at  length,  on  a  piece  of  Capo-di-Monte,  the  only  notable 
thing  in  a  room  full  of  expenses. 

I  explain  the  relation  of  Capo-di-Monte  to  democracy.  That 
evening  I  hear  I  insulted  a  w^hole  faction,  I  have  been  guilty  of  end- 
less seditions,  I  have  desired  an  ignominious  peace.  I  am  not  to  dine 
with  Mrs.  Hinchfield  on  Thursday,  although  this  had  been  arranged. 

This  does  not  interest  you,  for  you  are  not  interested  in  nuances, 
nor  in  the  precise  meaning  of  words;  also  you  have  never  encount- 
ered a  duchess.  Neither  are  they  my  habit,  any  more  than  are  the 
keepers  of  fruit  stalls.  But  I  do  not  dislike  them.  There  is  one 
formed  wholly  on  "The  Kreutzer  Sonata",  a  second  rate  novel  pub- 
lished twenty-eight  years  ago,  when  she  was  on  the  borders  of  thirty. 
She  has  the  mind  of  an  American  female  music  student,  in  a  Miinch- 
ner,  or  Vienese  boarding  house. 


54  The    Little    Review 

The  other,  two  years  her  junior,  has  the  mentality  of  a  gradu- 
ate from,  let  us  say,  Ogontz  or  some  other  highly-priced  American 
femals  seminary.  For  a  quarter  of  a  century  she  has  preserved  this 
crepe-paper  flower  in  an  almost  undusty  condition. 

My  present  char-woman  wears  velvet  shoes,  she  wears  pseudo- 
diamond  combs  at  her  dishwashing.  The  velvet  shoes  are  laced 
with  velvet  ribbons,  and  her  get-up  is  rather  untidy.  A  fact  which 
you  will  read  without  interest.  But  your  friend  Molly  from  South- 
port  has  seen  the  Lady  Godiva  buying  two  and  a  half  yards  of  green 
ribbon  in  Burbages  :  "And  making  such  a  display  of  herself.  And 
such  a  crowd  of  shop-assistants,  and  her  mother  etc  .  .  .  .  "  Molly 
attempts  to  mimic  Lady  G's  manner.  And  fails.  She  attempts  to 
mimic  Lady  G's  intonation  and  fails  more  pronouncedly. 

"Such  a  display  of  herself."  I  am  still  in  the  dark  as  to  why  the 
Lady  Godica  should  not  buy  two  and  a  half  yards  of  green  ribbon,  or 
why  her  mother  should  not  accompany  her,  or  whether,  for  her  quasi 
regality,  she  should  purchase  riblDon  only  in  bales;  or  whether  she 
sh*uld  spend  three  quarters  of  an  hour  dressing  for  Burbages  in 
some  style  recommended  by  Molly.  The  Lady  Godiva  is  not  dis- 
pleasing to  look  at,  affaire  d'oculiste,  a  mind  innocent,  oh,  innocent 
as  a  Christmas  Annual,  and  of  about  the  "^me  texture. 

(  The  peerage  [female]  is  divided  into  two  sections  :  the 
America  section,  which  reads  current  novels  ;  the  British  section  , 
which  reads  "The  Queen."  It  contains  however  several  gracious  and 
most  charming  people,  —  and  not  a  few  curiosities.)  But  this  bores 
you.  You  have  chosen.  You  will  henceforth  consort  with  Mollies. 
For  the  rest  of  your  natural  life.  And  you  will  take  part  in  the 
cheery,  bright,  ....  automatic  conversation  of  feminine  studios . 

Old  H^nchbon  is  right  for  all  that.  I  remember  old  Hinchbon 
meeting  with  Leffington  whom  he  had  known  in  his  youth.  I  had 
also  known  Leffington  in  my  twenties,  twenty  years  later,  and  for  six 
months  or  a  year  I  drank  in  his  anecdotal  conversation,  and  thought 
him  the  best  of  good  talkers.  Mappen  lasted  three  days.  But  Map- 
pen  is  a  "penseur."  He  is  enflamed  with  ideas.  He  will  tell  you 
that  he  resembles  Spinoza.  He  will  compare  his  mind  to  that  of 
Parmenides.  And  one  must  admit  that  he  thinks.  He  has  thought 
for  a  number  of  years.  He  has  enough  ideas  for  three  days.  After 
that  he  is  finished.  Anecdotes  last  a  man  longer.  But  a  tonality 
such  as  Perringham's  is  durable  for  a  lifetime.    (All  this  is  over  your 


T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view  55 


head.)     Perringham's  tonality,  or  his  sense  of  style,  makes  him  per- 
manent company. 

Of  Hinchbon  on  old  Leffington:  "No.  No.  Leffington!  It  is  no 
use.  His  conversation  shows  the  effects  of  association,  of  continuous 
association  with  inferior  people." 

That  is  my  allegorical  answer,  and  you  need  not  expect  me  at 
Pinner.  You  had  your  chance.  You  could  not  endure  the  high  alti- 
tude., I  do  not  write  this  out  of  malevolence.  I  do  not  mind  you 
having  a  new  husband,  or  a  dozen.  But  there  is  a  certain  proprete, 
a  certain  fastidiousness  of  the  mind.  The  old  Slautzer  used  to  mut- 
ter in  the  face  of  the  British  scrubbed-clean  nut-ocracy 

We  accepted  her  because  she  had  once  lived  with  a  certain 
Vienese  artist.  She  even  passed  for,  and  may  have  been  actually, 
one  of  his  various  wives.  That  was  her  passport.  She  must  have  had 
some  intelligence  or  he  would  not  have  stood  her  a  week.  She 
mumbled,  she  was  hard  to  understand,  I,  on  the  whole,  have  very 
little  to  tell  of  her,  but  I  can  still  hear  her  saying,  as  she  waved  a 
guardsman  away  from  her  table:  "No,  No,  vot  I  say  to  dese  people . 
Vot,  I  will  zleep  vit  you.  Yes,  I  vil  zleep  vit  you.  It  iss  nossing. 
But  talk  to  you  half  an  hour.  Neffair  !  !  Vun  musst  traw  de  line 
SOMMEFERE  !   !  " 

This  fastidiousness  of  the  mind,  my  dear  Lydia,  is  something- 
which  I  would  recommend  to  you. 

The  old  Slautzer  did  not  attain  it  on  all  planes  .  .  .  .notably 
on  the  plane  of  her  finger-nails.  And  she  never  opened  a  window, 
or  permitted  a  window  to  be  opened,  and  she  wore  a  greasy  (but 
rich,  very  rich)  fur-coat,  in-doors,  out  of  doors,  all  the  time. 

There  were  certain  things  in  her  favour.  But  for  constant  im- 
mersion in  second-rate  conversation  there  is  no  extenuation  what- 
ever. 

It  may  be  that  you  have  reached  your  habitat,  but  into  that 
habitat  you  need  not  expect  me  to  follow  you.  I  do  not  mind  your 
having  a  new  husband,  or  a  dozen  new  husbands,  but  that  you  have 
an  inferior  mental  object  is  a  desolating  and  discouraging  matter. 
Not  even  by  an  hair's  breadth  would  I  impinge  upon  your  new  do- 
mesticities. 

Yours, 

Walter  Villerant. 


56  The    Little    Re  view 


WOMEN   AND  MEN 
Ford  Madox  Hueffer 

IV 

Average    People 

I  HAVE  reflected  for  a  long  time;  I  have  reflected  for  a -very  long 
time.  I  have  really  done  my  best  to  make  a  discovery  which 
most  people  would  regard  as  the  easiest  in  the  world.  It  is  one  of 
those  matters  which  every  one  would  say  at  first  sight  was  known  to 
everyone,  but  which  no  one  ever  really  knows.  If  you  ask  any 
person  in  the  world  how  many  steps  lead  up  to  his  front  door  he  will 
not  be  able  to  tell  you:  or  if  you  ask  him  whether  the  figures  on 
his  watch  are  Arabic  or  Roman.  And  yet  there  will  be  a  portion 
of  that  man's  brain  that  knows  these  things,  though  from  his  con- 
sciousness they  are  entirely  absent.  Thus,  every  man  can  descend 
his  own  steps  without  paying  attention  to  the  number  of  them, 
which  proves  that  somewhere  in  his  automatic  memory  the  knowl- 
edge is  hidden  aw^ay.  And  every  man,  if  presented  with  his  own 
watch  and  the  watch  of  another  precisely  similar  in  every  detail' 
save  that  of  the  dial  plate,  will  know  his  own  watch  by  its  "look". 
Along  somewhat  similar  lines  is  the  discovery  that  I  am  trying  to 
make.  For  what  I  want  to  know  is:  "What  is  an  average  man?" 
What,  for  the  matter  of  that  is  an  average  woman?  Who  has 
seen  either  of  these  impossible  monsters?  Assuredly  neither  I  nor 
you.  "For  such  a  sunflower  never  bloomed  beneath  the  sun."  We 
all  have  very  strongly  within  us  the  belief  that  there  is  such  a 
thing.  The  belief  is  as  strong  as  that  in  the  immortality  of  our 
souls.  And  we  think,  when  we  are  not  thinking  about  it,  that  we 
know  a  large  number  of  quite  average  men  and  women.  We  should 
laugh  loudly  if  v^^e  were  told  that  we  could  not  put  our  finger  im- 
mediately upon  a  perfectly  average  man  or  a  perfectly  average 
woman.  And  yet,  the  moment  you  come  to  try  to  do  it  you  will 
find  that  it  is  absolutely  impossible. 

-  By  carefully  going  through  the  Alphabet,  and  my  calling  book, 
I  have  found  that  I  know  at  the  present  moment  1,642  men  and 
women.    I  know  them,  that  is  to  say,  all  of  them  to  speak  to.    And, 


The    Little    Review  57 


having  a  fairly  tenacious  memeory,  which  practically  never  forgets 
even  very  small  things  connected  with  the  careers  of  other  people, 
I  may  say  that  I  know  something  of  the  circumstances  and  the  char- 
acters of  all  these  people.  My  own  acquaintance  divides  itself  into 
three  main  bodies — the  distinctly  lower  classes,  the  intellectual 
classes  and  the  distinctly  leisured  and  upper  classes.  Of  the  com- 
mercial middle  classes  I  know  practically  very  little.  These  distinc- 
tions are  of  course  arbitrary,  but  they  more  or  less  express  what  I 
mean.  I  am  aware  that  the  objections  will  at  once  be  made:  "If 
you  know  nothing  of  the  middle  classes  you  cannot  of  course  know 
anything  of  the  average  man,  for  it  is  precisely  amongst 
the  middle  classes  that  the  average  man  is  to  be  found."  And 
of  course  there  is  something  to  be  said  for  the  objection  until  one 
€omes  to  regard  it  scientifically.  Then  at  once  it  disappears.  For, 
in  the  very  nature  of  the  case  the  middle  classes  are  numerically 
small  by  comparison  with  the  bulk  of  the  people. 

And  indeed  every  aspect  of  this  bewildering  subject  bristles 
with  difficuilties  as  soon  a^  one  approaches  it.  Thus,  let  us  for  the 
moment  accept  the  dictum  that  the  average  man  is  to  be  found 
among  the  middle  classes.  Let  us  carry  it  even  a  step  further  and 
say  that  the  middle-class  man  is  the  average  man.  For.  of  course 
the  great  bulk  of  readers  will  be  found  among  the  middle  classes — or 
they  would  have  been  so  found  until  yesterday  when  the  coming  of 
the  cheap  press  spread  some  kind  of  printed  m.atter  into  the  hands 
even  of  the  very  poorest  of  servant  girls.  Here  then  is  another 
difficulty  of  classification.  One  cannot  really  say  that  the  middle 
classes  are  the  reading  classes.  One  cannot  even  really  say  that 
the  middle  classes  are  the  classes  that  most  read  thoughtful  litera- 
ture. 

In  a  book  dealing  specifically  with  tlie  Ffc  we  live  to-day  it  is 
almost  impossible  to  avoid  mentioning  the  names  of  individuals  or 
of  institutions.  And,  to  name  individuals  or  institutions  is  always 
open  to  certain  objections.  These  objections,  grave  as  they  are,  I 
must  just  face  as  best  I  can,  or  rather  I  must  just  ignore  them. 
If  I  could,  I  would  just  deal  with  my  own  readers,  but  I  haven't  the 
least  idea  v.'ho  my  own  readers  may  be.  No  author  ever  has  or 
ever  can  have.  A  certain  number  of  people  tell  me  that  they  have 
read  my  books.  They  may  have  or  they  may  not  have,  but  I  have 
no  means  of  classifying  them.     I  don't  in  fact  know  my  own  "pub- 


I 


5*  The    Little    Review 


lie".  But  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  the  "publics"  of  other  authors,  or 
more  particularly  of  various  journals,  one  arrives  at  much  more 
definite  ground.  One  knows  at  least  what  sort  of  person  will  not 
read  the  Sporting  Times. 

Yet  having  written  the  statement  down  I  am  at  once  driven  to 
hesitation.  For  it  occurs  to  me  that  I  know  very  well  a  lady  most 
of  whose  interests  are  intellectual  or  are  connected  with  public 
movements  in  one  way  or  another,  and  she  quite  frequently  men- 
tions this  journal,  calling  it  by  its  orthodox  name — "The  Pink  Un." 
Or  again,  I  was  once  an  inhabitant  of  a  very  remote  village  and  be- 
came rather  closely  friendly  with  the  vicar.  This  gentleman  was 
just  a  vicar.  He  was  quite  unwordly,  he  preached  simple,  gentle 
sermons;  he  was  good  to  the  poor  in  the  ordinary  clerical  maimer. 
He  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  in  fishing.  But  every  now  and  then, 
he  would  astonish  be  by  letting  drop  startling  pieces  of  gossip  as  to 
rather  "smart"  people  with  whom  he  could  not  possibly  have  come 
into  contact.  One  day  he  said  something  so  odd,  concerning  a  no- 
toriety in  the  world  of  sport  who  v»?as  at  that  time  on  his  trial  for 
an  offence  against  the  laws  of  the  country  —  something  so  odd 
that  I  could  not  help  questioning  him.    He  said: 

"I  have  it  on  the  authority  of  a  journal  that  I  read  regularly. 
I  have  never  heard  its  statements  questioned.  But  I  dare  say 
you  do  not  read  it  yourself."  He  uttered  these  .last  words  as  if  the 
paper  was  a  little  over  my  head  for  social  of  for  learned  reasons . 
Of  course  the  good  man  was  quite  nice  about  it,  but  he  could  not 
get  it  out  of  his  head  that  he  was  the  clergyman  of  the  parish  while 
I  was  some  casual  nobody  who  happened  to  have  taken  a  house  with- 
in the  limits  of  his  cure  of  souls.  Then  he  told  me  the  name  of  his 
paper.    It  was  the  Pelican! 

So  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  say  even  who  will  not  read 
any  given  paper.  I  have  pursued  this  argument  with  such  tenacity 
that  I  am  aware  that  the  matter  I  have  in  hand  for  the  moment  may 
have  escaped  the  remembrance  of  the  reader.  It  is  whether  or 
no  the  middle  classes  may  be  said  to  make  up  the  bulk  of  the 
thoughtful  reading  classes. 

Let  us  then  take  the  case  of  two  or  three  definite  journals. 
Let  us  mention  say,  the  Spectator,  the  New  Age,  the  Mercure  de 
France,  the  Frankfurter  Zeitung  or  Maximilian  Harden's  journal, 
Die  Zukunjt.     All  these  papers  might  be  called  journals  with  a 


The    Little    Review  "  59 


thoughtful  public.  And  of  these  we  can  say  pretty  accurately  that 
the  Spectator,  the  "Frankjiirter  Zeitung,''  and  in  a  less  degree  Die 
Zukiinft  appeal  to  the  middle  classes.  As  to  the  Spectator  and  the 
Frankfurter  Zeitung  there  cannot  be  any  doubt  at  all.  The  appeal 
of  the  one  is  mainly  psychological,  of  the  other  it  would  be  too  much 
to  say  that  it  is  mainly  financial — for  the  German  daily  paper  has 
an  excellent  news'  organisation,  very  good  leader  writers,  a  numer- 
our  and  wellequipped  staff  of  critics  and  a  general  tone  of  sober 
liberalism.  But  you  would  not  expect  either  from  the  Spectator 
or  from  the  Frankfurter  Zeitung  anything  startling  in  the  thougts 
it  expresses.  In  politics  each  is  a  sound  but  not  violent  party  or- 
gan, the  Spectator  being  of  a  Whiggish  Conservative  one  and  the 
Frankfurter  being  Liberal,  which  in  Germany  means  practically 
WTiiggrsh  Conservative.  It  is  almost  essential  for  every  business 
man  in  Southern  or  Middle  Germany,  whatever  may  be  the  shade 
of  his  political  opinions,  to  read  this  particular  paper  on  account  of 
the  excellence  of  its  business  and  financial  information.  The  Eng- 
lish business  reads  his  Spectator  in  order  to  keep  himself  from  think- 
ing anything  original.  And  in  that  way  much  the  same  result  is 
achieved. 

If  we  come  to  the  New  Age  and  to  Die  Zukunft  we  arrive  upon 
much  more  delicate  ground.  The  readers  of  the  New  Age  are  very 
numerous  and  come  from  widely  different  classes.  I  have  known 
several  army  officers  who  regularly  studied  its  pages,  together  with 
at  least  two  colonial  governors,  quite  a  number  of  higher  Civil  Ser- 
vice officials,  solicitors  and  members  of  the  bar.  On  the  other  hand 
I  have  known  it  read  regularly  by  board-school  teachers,  shop  as- 
sistants, servants,  artisans  and  members  of  the  poor  generally.  Of 
course  they  were  the  intelligent  poor.  The  New  Age  is  a  much 
lighter  organ  than  Die  Zukunft,  though  the  latter  represents  about 
the  same  type  of  thought.  But  the  appeal  of  Die  Zukunft  is  much 
more  exclusively  middle  class.  It  is  read  with  enthusiasm  by  the 
younger  and  more  brilliant  of  German  students  of  both  sexes.  It 
is  more  scientific  in  its  views  than  any  socialist  paper  that  England 
can  show.  It  is,  more  brilliantly  written,  it  makes  more  appeal  to 
the  knowledge  of  its  readers  and  it  is  in  consequence  distinctly 
harder  to  read — on  the  other  hand  it  is  impossible  to  imagine  any 
German  officer,  official,  or  any  German  working  man,  servant  or 
skilled  artisan  reading  Die  Zukunft.    And,  while  there  is  an  enor- 


6o  The    Little    Review 


mous  amount  of  socialistic  literature  in  Germany,  there  is  no  well- 
known  journal  that  so  mixes  progaganda  with  advanced  criticism  of 
the  arts  and  various  aspects  of  life — as  does  the  New  Age  in  Eng- 
land. And  the  circumstances  in  France  are  somewhat  similar  to 
those  in  German}^  You  have  excellent  Whiggish  papers  like  the 
Journal  des  dehats  or  the  Temps.  And  in  matters  of  advanced  po- 
litical thought  you  have  a  great  many  socialist  and  even  anarchist 
journals  occupying  themselves  solely  with  propagandism  of  a  greater 
or  of  a  less  violence.  But  ac|vanced  criticisms  of  the  arts  or  of 
life  are  left  to  journals  like  the  Mercure  de  France.  The  Mercure 
has  a  large  circulation  all  over  the  world.  I  have  'come  across  it  in 
England  more  frequently  than  in  France,  but  that  is  probably 
merely  accidental.  But  its  appeal  is  almost  exclusively  to  the  in- 
tellectual classes — to  presons,  even  among  those  classes  who  prac- 
tise one  or  other  of  the  four  arts. 

What  results  then  do  we  arrive  at  from  this  cursory  survey  of 
the  principal  organs  of  journalistic  thought  through  western  Europe? 
I  fancy  at  none  at  all.  Neither  should  we  arrive  at  anything  very 
useful  if  we  considered  the  "publics"  of  the  distinguished  thinkers 
of  today.  °We  might  very  well  say  that  the  readers  of  Mr.  Gals- 
worthy belong  almost  exclusively  to  the  comfortable  classes — to  the 
richer  members  of  the  middle  class  with  a  certain  number  of  in- 
tellectuals who  cannot  be  classed  at  all.  The  readers  of  Mr.  H.  G. 
Wells  were  until  lately,  when  he  began  to  be  read  by  society,  which 
is  not  at  all  the  same  thing  as  the  comfortable  classes — the  readers 
of  Mr.  H.  G.  Wells  in  his  sociological  moods  were  almost  exclusively 
the  not  so  wealthy  middle  classes  with  a  sprinkling  of  the  more 
scientifically-minded  intellectuals  and  teachers.  But  the  works  of 
Mr.  Kipling — of  Mr.  Kipling  the  imperialist— ^iiust  have  been  in- 
finitely more  familiar — may  still  be  infinitely  more  familiar  to  the 
distinctly  poor  than  ever  were  the  works  of  Mr.  Wells  or  Mr.  Gals 
worthy,  though  both  these  writers  troubled  their  heads  much  more 
about  the  poor  than  ever  did  the  author  of  "The  Absent  Minded 
Beggar".  On  the  other  hand  it  is  customary  to  say  that  the  real 
writers  for  the  lower  classes  are  men  like  Mr.  Charles  Garvice  or 
the  brothers  Hocking — gentlemen  whose  names  are  absolutely  un- 
familiar to  any  literary  circle,  who  would  probably  modestly  lay 
claim  to  no  literary  merits  at  all  but  whose  books  sell  by  the  many 
million — literarlly  by  the  many  million.    But  this  customary  saying 


The    Little    Review  6i 

s  probably  quite  fallacious.  The  appeal  of  the  brothers  Hocking 
s  I  believe,  piu-ely  a  sectarian  one — they  are  read  by  the  members 
3f  the  particular  Free  Church  to  which  they  may  happen  to  belong, 
rhe  works  of  Mr.  Garvice  are  very  little  read  by  the  really  poor 
Dut  have  their  millions  of  supporters  among  all  sorts  of  classes 
ranging  from  city  clerks  to  the  wives  of  chemists  in  the  provinces, 
Df  manufacturers  in  the  Potteries,  and  of  quite  rich  commercial 
persons  in  the  North. 

So  that  here  again  we  arive  at  no  results  at  all,  or  at  no  results 
that  are  worth  very  much.  Let  us  just  restate  what  we  have  ar- 
rived at.  The  most  definite  fact  that  we  can  state  is  that  certain 
journals  like  the  Spectator,  the  Frankfurter  Zeitung,  the  Temps  or 
the  Debats  are  read  by  a  number  of  persons  who  desired  to  be  safe 
either  in  their  opinions  or  in  their  investments.  And  it  is  safe  to 
say  that  the  persons  who  desire  to  be  safe  are  persons  who  have 
something  to  lose.  And  it  is  also  fairly  safe  to  say  that  the  majority 
jf  people  who  have  something  to  lose  belong  to  the  comfortable 
section  of  the  middle  classes.  And  without  doubt  it  is  to  this  sec- 
:ion  that  we  should  go  to  find  the  average  man.  It  is  at  least  for  a 
Lypical  member  of  this  class  that  the  most  inisistent  claim  would 
be  made  by  the  widest  selection  of  members  of  the  "press".  If  t 
should  say  that  the  average  man  was  a  skilled  artisan;  a  country 
grocer  or  a  farm  labourer,  or  if  I  should  say  that  the  average  woman 
A'as  a  Lancashire  cotton  hand,  mine  girl  or  a  labourer's  wife,  the 
rt^hole  Conservative  and  Whig  press — the  Spectator  the  Daily  Tele- 
graph the  Yorkshire  Post,  and  Truth,  and  possibly  even  the  Man- 
zhester  Guardian — would  sneer  at  me  in  the  peculiar  way  that  the 
Reviewers  belonging  to  these  organs  of  the  cultivated  classes  so  eff- 
fectually  cultivate.  The  Radical  papers — the  Daily  News,  the 
Daily  Chronicle  New  Age  and  so  on  would  not  take  the  trouble  to 
jack  me  up;  because  I  am  not  a  propagandist  of  their  particular 
:ype. 

But  if  I  say  that  the  average  man  is  a  gentleman  of  no  occupa- 
tion, belonging  to  the  comfortable  section  of  the  middle  classes,  all 
the  Whig  and  Conservative  papers  that  I  have  named  would  cord- 
ally  agree  with  me.  The  more  advanced  organs  would  agree  sadly. 
Phis  is  because  it  is  the  ambition  of  every  Englishman  who  is 
ivorth  calling  and  Englishman — his  secret  ambition  deep  down  in 
lis  heart  is  to  become  a  gentleman  of  no  occupation  belonging  to 


I 


62  The  Little  Review 


the  comfortable  section  of  the  middle  classes.  This  is  the  great 
ideal  of  every  Englishman.  We  all  of  us  want  to  be  peers,  but 
that  is  only  a  day  dream.  To  become  a  gentleman  of  leisure  we  all 
of  us  have  a  chance,  so  that  this  particular  Average  Man  is  the 
ideal  of  all  sections  and  of  all  classes.  The  Daily  Telegraph  would 
like  to  limit  the  number  of  him  and  render  him  privileged;  the 
Fabian  Society  and  other  socialist  societies  wish  to  turn  every  En- 
glishman into  such  an  individual — perhaps  not  quite  so  well  ofiF,  but 
specifically  the  same.  Let  us  then  consider  the  life  and  habits  of 
such  a  person. 

(to    be   continued) 


The    Criterion 

"Art",  said  the  aged  Mr.  William  Dean  Howells,  speaking  for 
Mabie,  Woodbury,  Van  Dyke  and  Co.,  and  the  whole  of  their 
papier  machc  and  never  to  be  sufficiently  ridiculed  and  wholly  con- 
temptible generation  of  male  American  matrons,  "Art  which  upsets 
me,  Art  in  which  the  mind  of  the  artist  has  moved  more  rapidly 
than  my  mind  habitually  moves.  Aft  uttered  by  persons  who  see  a 
toit  more  than  I  do,  who  feel  more  deeply  than  I  do,  cannot  be  suffi- 
ipiently  regretted.  Give  me  C.  Wharton  Stork  ,  I  am  never  dis- 
turbed by  his  magazine. 

THE   READER   CRITIC 

Israel  Solon,  New  York: 

Now  a  word  or  more  about  the  April  Review — more,  surely,  if  I  know 
anything  about  myself  by  now.  It  is  the  best  single  number  I  have  yet  come 
across.  It  is  really  a  wonderful  thing.  I  don't  beheve  a  magazine  has  ever 
given  me  so  much  joy  before.  It  is  first  rate  from  a  purely  commercial  stand 
point  also.  Hueffer,  May  Sinclair  and  Joyce  ought  to  be  good  business  getters 
for  any  commercial  magazine.  How  in  the  world  did  Pound  ever  get  hold 
of  them? 

This  of  course  does  not  mean  that  I  agree  with  the  propositions  formulated 
in  the  magazine.  I  do  not.  May  Sinclair,  for  instance,  falls  foul  of  "subjective 
and  objective."    As  a  result  she  seems  to  think  that  to  "plunge"  is  the  same  as 


The    Little    Review  63 

;o  "plunge"  into  one's  self.  That  is  not  so.  When  we  plunge  into  ourselves  we 
ire  "subjective,"  and  when  we  plunge  into  others  we  are  "objective."  James 
Foyce  has  plunged  deep  into  himself,  to  be  sure;  but  not  before  he  had  erected 
ibout  himself  an  almost  insurmountable  wall.  He  has  devoloped  a  technique 
hat  none  but  the  most  disciplined,  the  most  persistent  and  sympathetic  are 
ible  to  break  through.  For  myself,  I  should  never  make  use  of  any  term 
learly  so  precipitate  as  plunging  when  describing  the  art  of  James  Joyce.  I 
ihould  say  that  James  Joyce  adventures  slowly  and  panifully  with  a  huge  stone 
leliberately  tied  to  his  middle,  that  he  might  sink  readily  and  stay  under  long 
md  be  all  but  unable  to  retreat.  I  seem  to  detect  in  Miss  Sinclair  an  error 
lommon  to  humanity:  She  seems  to  mistake  what  she  herself  finds  difficult 
'or  what  is  intrinsically  meritorious.  If  I  were  to  go  on  to  explain  why  some 
jf  us  plunge  into  ourselves  and  some  of  us  into  others.  I  should  have  to  bring 
n  sex.  And  sex,  I  am  told  by  those  who  ought  to  know,  is  simply  impossible. 
And  James  Joyces  portrait  of  young  Cyril  Sargent  (pp.  36-37)  is  mar- 
/elous  beyond  words.  He  is  the  most  sensitive  writer  alive.  I  wish  I  could 
idvise  him  to  make  friends  with  himself.  He  is  not  nearly  so  bad  as  he 
leems  to  beUeve  he  is.     His  is  merely  a  youthful  judgment  hanging  over. 

But  what  gave  me  the  most  spontaneous  and  continuous  joy  was  Hueffer's 
'Women  and  Men."  He  keeps  getting  better  with  each  instalment.  Why  the 
ihop-keepers  had  not  bought  that  up  is  beyond  me.  But  his  theory  that  the 
ibservable  differences  between  the  sexes  are  differences  resulting  from  their 
lifferent  employments  must  be  pronounced  "unproved."  Even  granting  that 
arbers  and  waiters  are  effeminate,  it  does  not  follow  that  their  effeminacy 
8  the  result  of  their  occupations.  It  may  be,  for  instance,  that  effeminate 
nen   lake  to  barbering   and  waiting. 

He  must  be  aware,  of  course,  that  all  his  arguments  have  been  pretty  well 
one  over  in  the  endless  debates  between  the  Darwinians  and  Lamarckians. 
don't  mean  that  anything  has  been  settled.  The  debate  as  to  which  is  the 
reater  factor,  heredity  or  environment,  will  no  doubt  go  on  as  long  as  there 
5  no  agreement  as  to  the  definition  of  heredity  and  environment,  and  we 
re  today  further  from  any  such  definition  than  ever  before.  It  is  a  short- 
ighted  assumption,  for  instance,  that  heredity  ends  with  the  emergence  from 
he  uterus.  Nor  is  it  more  than  a  merely  arbitrary  assertion  that  birth  takes 
lace  then.  For  we  are  then  driven  to  admit  that  man  is,  let  us  say,  twenty 
ears  younger  at  birth  than  a  calf. 

If  Hueffer's  theory  were  sound  it  would  follow  that  the  differences  be- 
iveen  the  sexes  would  disappear  as  men  and  women  continued  to  follow  the 
ame  occupations  for  any  great  length  of  time.     There  are  many  such  families 


1 


64  T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Revi  ew 


in  England.  Take  the  glovers,  for  instance,  or  peasants.  No,  sex  differentia- 
tion having  once  set  in,  it  will  become  greater  with  time.  Specific,  given  char- 
acteristics may  and  no  doubt  will  disappear.  Youthful  types  may  replace 
ferocious  among  men.  Many  or  even  all  the  present  secondary  sexual  char- 
acteristics may  fade  out  and  disappear  for  biometrics,  but  only  to  reappear 
in  psychologic  form. 

It  appears  to  me  that  he  is  unaware  that  he  is  merely  making  a  dogmatic 
assertion  of  a  personal  prejudice  when  he  says  that  the  only  woman  a  man 
ever  gets  to  know  is  the  woman  he  learns  to  know  during  a  passionate  ex- 
perience. One  could  with  equal  truth  assert  that  in  passion  we  are  incapable 
of  learning  to  know  anything.  No  one  woman  is  the  woman,  except  for  a 
given  interest.  But  all  that  I  have  said  does  not  detract  from  the  value  of 
the  essay  as  a  piece  of  style.  It  is  quite  the  mellowest  and  most  wholesome 
piece  of  composition  that  I  have  read  in  a  long  while. 

But  I  must  get  to  write  something  for  the  "average  reader,"  or  the 
"economic  man,"or  "George  Washington,"  [Quotes  OK]  or  whatever  it  may 
be  that  is  supposed  to  be  reading  our  magazine  fiction.  I  really  must.  Or 
the  crows  will  soon  be  picking  at  my  bones — and  have  a  hard  time  finding 
anything.  v 

Alice  Groff,  Philadelphia:       ■    N^ 

Up  to  now  the  Little  Revieiv  has  been  a  delightful  youth,  gifted,  daring, 
insolent,  swash-buckling,  with  flashes  of  divine  discernment  and  discrimina- 
tion. With  the  March  number  it  comes  to  its  majority,  superbly  fuU-statured, 
speaking  with  social  authority  upon  all  that  pertains  to  life.  May  its  further 
growth  and  development  be  the  fulfillment  of  this  glorious,,  promise  of  ma- 
turity. 

Daphne  Can;  Pittsburcj: 

I  want  to  thank  you  so  much  for  sticking  out  in  these  beastly  times 
with  your  Little  Review.  Other  prints  yap  and  bellow  and  throw  mud.  The 
Little  Reviezv  stays  as  serene  and  beautiful  as  a  chatelaine  of  Azay — a 
singing  chatelaine  with  a  strangely  sweet  lute.  How  grateful  I  am  for 
"Ulysses"!  I  call  you  blessed,  even  as  the  rest  of  the  country  will  some  fifty 
years  hence. 


The  June  issue  of  The  Little  Review  will  be  an  American 
tiumber. 


EGMONT  H.  ARENS,  who  keeps  the  Washington 
Spare  Bookshop  at  Seventeen  West  Eighth  Street, 
New  York,  announces  that  he  will  send  free  to  any- 
body his  Catalogue  of  "BOOKS  THAT  ARE  LITER- 
ATURE" containing  a  List  of  Best  Titles  in  Russian 
Literature,  Poetry,  Drama,  Psychoanalysis,  Sex, 
Essays  and  Modern  Fiction.  Your  mail  order  for  any 
Book  obtainable  in  New  York  will  be  filled  immedi- 
ately.   Be  sure  to  visit  him  when  you  are  in  town. 


STATEMENT     OF     OWNERSHIP.     MANAGEMENT,     CIRCULATION,     ETC., 

REQUIRED    BY    THE    ACT    OF    CONGRESS,    OF    AUGUST    24,    1912. 
OF     THE     LITTLE     REVIEW,     published    monthly     at    New    York,    N.    Y.,    for 

April   1,    1918. 

State  of  Illinois,  County  of  Cook — ss. 

Before  me,  a  Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  and  county  aforesaid,  personally 
appeared  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  who,  having  been  duly  sworn  according  to  law, 
deposes  and  says  that  siie  is  the  Publisher,  Editor,  Owner,  Business  Manager 
of  THE  LITTLE  REVIEW,  and  that  the  following  is,  to  the  best  of  her  know- 
ledge and  belief,  a  true  statement  of  the  ownership,  management  (and  if  a  daily 
papi;r,  the  circulation),  etc.,  of  t-e  aforesaid  publication  for  the  date  shown  in  the 
above  caption,  required  by  the  Act  of  August  24,  1912,  embodied  in  section  443, 
Postal   Laws  and  Regulations,   printed  on   tlie  reverse  of  tliis  form ;   to  wit : 

1.  That  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and 
business    managers    are : 

Publisher,  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Editor, 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Managing  Editor 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Business  Manager, 
Margaret    C.    Anderson,   24    W.    Sixteenth   St.,    New    York. 

2.  That    the    owner    is,    Margaret    C.    Anderson. 

3.  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  security  holders  owning 
or  holding  1  per  cent,  or  more  of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or ,  other 
securities   are :    None. 

4.  That  the  two  paragraphs  next  above,  giving  the  names  of  owners,  stock- 
holders, and  security  holders,  if  any,  contain  not  only  the  list  of  stockholders 
and  security  holders  as  they  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  but  also,  in 
cases  where  the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appear  upon  the  books  of  the 
company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  the  person  or 
corporation  for  whom  such  trustee  is  acting,  is  given ;  also  that  the  said  two 
paragraphs  contain  statements  embracing  affiant's  full  knowledge  and  belief  as  to 
the  circumstances  and  conditions  under  which  stockholders  and  security  holders 
who  do  not  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustees,  hold  stock  and 
securities  in  a  capacity  other  than  that  of  a  bona  fide  owner ;  aud  this  affiant 
has  no  reason  to  believe  that  any  other  person,  association,  or  corporation,  has 
any  interest  direct  or  indirect  in  the  said  stock,  bonds,  or  other  securities  than 
13    so    stated    by    her.  MARGARET    C.   ANDERSON. 

Sworn  to  and  subscribed  before  me  this  30th  day  of  March,   1918. 

ADA  LOUISE  KATZ,  Notary  Public. 
(My  commission   expires  Nov.    12,    1918). 


THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF   PIANOS 


313   FIFTH   AVENUE 
NEW  YORK 


THE  BERLITZ  SCHOOL  OF  LANGUAGES 

Head  Office  —New  York,  28-30  West  34th  Street 
Brooklyn  218-220  Livingston  Street 

Washington,    Philadelphia,    Baltimore,    Boston,    Chicago,    Pittsburgh,    Detroit, 

Orange,    Paris,    London,    Petrograd,    Rome,    Madrid,    Lisbon,    Brussels, 

Geneva,  Havana,  Butnos  Aires,  Rio  Janeiro,  Montevideo,  Cairo, 

Algiers,    Christiania,    Amsterdam,    Copenhagen,    Etc, 

OVER  300   BRANCHES   IN   THE   LEADING   CITIES   of  THE   WORLD 

PUPILS    TRAVELING    MAY    TRANSFER    THE    VALUE    OF    THEIR 
LESSONS  TO  ANY  OTHER  BERLITZ  SCHOOL 

SUPERIOR  NATIVE  TEACHERS 

By  *he  Berlitz  Method   Students  learn  not  only  to  read  and  wtitt,  but  also 
to    UNDERSTAND    and   to    SPEAK    the   foreign   languages. 

Terms  may  be  begun  at  any  time  —  Trial  Lesson  free 

Lessons  Privately  and  in  CJasseSi  Day 
and  Evenings,  at  School  or  Residence 

RECENT  AWARDS: 

Paris  Exposition,    1900,    Gold   Medals;    Lille   Exposition,    1902,    Grand   Prize; 

Zurich    Exposition,    1902,    Gold   Medal;    St.    Louis   Exposition,    1904, 

Grand  Priz«;   Liege  Exposition,  190S,   Grand  Prize;   London 

Exposition,  1908,  Grand  Prize;   Brussels  1910,  Hors 

Concours;    Turin    1911,    Hors    Concours. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


AN  AMERICAN  NUMBER 


THE  EGOIST 


This  journal  is  not  a  chatty  literary  review:  its  mis- 
sion is  not  to  divert  and  amuse:  it  is  not  written  for  tired 
and  depressed  people.  Its  aim  is  rather  to  secure  a  fit  audi- 
ence, and  to  render  available  to  that  audience  contemporary 
literary  work  bearing  the  stamp  of  originality  and  per- 
manance:  to  present  in  the  making  those  contemporary 
literary  efforts  which  ultimately  will  constitute  20th 
century  literature. 

The  philosophical  articles  which  The  Egoist  publishes, 
by  presenting  the  subject-matter  of  metaphysics  in  a  form 
which  admits  of  logical  treatment,  are  promising  a  new 
era  for  philosophy.  The  power  of  its  fictional  work  is 
investing  that  commonest  but  laxest  of  literary  forms — the 
novel  (as  written  in  English) — with  a  new  destiny  and 
a  new  meaning.  In  poetry,  its  pages  are  open  to  exper- 
iments which  are  transforming  the  whole  conception  of 
poetic  form,  while  among  its  writers  appear  leaders  in 
pioneering  methods  radically  affecting  the  allied  arts. 


Obviously  a  journal  of  interest  to  virile  readers  only. 
Such  should  write,  enclosing  subscription,  to 

THE  EGOIST 

23  ADELPHI  TERRACE  HOUSE.  ROBERT  STREET 
LONDON.  W.  C.  2. 

lilllllllllililllllllllllllliilillllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllliy^^ 

PUBLISHED    MONTHLY 

Price,  fifteen  cents  a  number 
Yearly  subscription,  one  dollar  sixty  cents 


THE    LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


JUNE, 

Poems 

Prose  about  Love 
Love    Song 

Dreams   in   War   Time 
Lust 
Haunts 
Poems 

The  Man   of  Ideas 
Finale 
f  Sonnet 

Folk   Song   Echoes 

The   Writer   and   his   Job 

Drawings 

Capriccios 

Poems 

Ulysses,  IV 

The   Reader   Critic 


1918 

Wallace  Stevens 

William   Carlos   Williams 

William    Carlos    Williams 

Amy   Lowell 

Ben  Hecht 

Carl  Sandburg 

Mark    Turbyfill 

Sherzvood  Anderson 

Djuna  Barnes 

S.  Foster.  Damon 

Esther   Kohen 

Israel   Solon 

Stanislaw  Ssukalski 

A  If  red  Krem  b  org 

Max    Michelson 

James  Joyce 


Copyright,    1918,    by   Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  Nezu  York 

Foreign  office: 

5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London   W.  8. 

25  cents  a  copy  $2.50  a  year 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  O.,  New  York^  N.  Y., 

under  the  act  March  3,  iSyg. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


The    Little    Review 


Notes 

WALLACE  STEVENS,  Hartford,  Conn.  A  distinguished  poet  and  play- 
wright. Author  of  "Three  Travellers  Watch  a  Sunrise,"  "Carlos  among  the 
Candles",  etc. 

DR.  WILLIAM  CARLOS  WILLIAMS,  Rutherford,  New  Jersey.  A  young 
poet  and  physician  .  Contributor  to  the  Egoist,  Poetry,  Others,  the  Poetry 
Journah  etc.  Author  of  "Al  Que  Quiere"  (Four  Seas),  and  "Tempers"  (Elkin 
Mathews,  London). 

AMY  LOWELL,  Brookline,  Mass.  Perhaps  the  best-known  poet  in  Amer- 
ica today.  A  prolific  writer  and  militant  propagandist"  for  the  American  party 
for  free  verse. 

BEN  HECHT,  Chicago.  Writer  of  short  stories,  poems  and  plays.  Some 
of  his  first  work  appeared  in  the  Little  Review. 

CARL  SANDBURG,  Chicago.  "The  Chicago  poet".  See  "Tendencies  in 
Modern  American  Poetry,"  by  Amy  Lowell.. 

MARK  TURBYFILL,  Chicago:  A  very  young  poet  whose  work  appeared 
first  in  the  Little  Review  in  1916  and  later  in  Poetry. 

SHERWOOD  ANDERSON,  Chicago.  Author  of  "Windy  McPherson's  Son", 
"Marching  Men",  etc.,  short  stories,  and  recently  a  book  of  poems  called 
"Mid-American  Chants." 

DJUNA   BARNES,  New  York  City.     An  original.     (The  present  example  is , 
not  my  proof).    Author  of  the  audacious  "Passion  Play"  in  the  February  num- 
ber of  Others.     She  has  made  various  striking  poems  and  drawings . 

S.  FOSTER  DAMON,  Newton,  Mass.  A  young  poet-scholar,  "in  love  with 
perfection."     Never  before  wilhng  to  publish. 

ESTHER  KOHEN,  Chicago.  A  young  Roumanian  girl  on  the  Chicago 
Daily  News.     We  may  expect  some  good  work  from  her. 

ISRAEL  SOLON,  New  York  City.  Writer  of  short  stories,  criticism,  plays, 
etc. 

ALFRED  KREMBORG,  New  York.  Founder  of  Others,  author  of  "Plays 
for  Poem-Mimes,'  "Mushrooms,"  etc. 

MAX  MICHELSON,  Chicago.     Contributor  to  the  Egoist,  Poetry,  etc. 

STANISLAW  SZUKALSKI,  Chicago.  Sculptor  born  in  Warta,  Poland, 
1895. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.   V#  June,    1918  No.  2 

POEMS 

Wallace    Stevens 
Anecdote    of    Men    by    the    Thousand 

The  soul,  he  said,  is  composed 
Of  the  external  world. 

There  are  men  of  the  East .  he  said , 

Who  are  the  East. 

There  are  men  of  a  province 

Who  are  that  province. 

There  are  men  of  a  valley 

Who  are  that  valley. 

There  are  men  whose  words 
Are  as  natural  sounds 
Of  their  places 
As  the  cackle  of  toucans 
In  the  place  of  toucans. 

The  mandoline  is  the  instrument 
Of  a  place. 

Are  there  mandolines  of  Western  mountains? 
Are  there  mandolines  of  Northern  moonlight? 

The  dress  of  a  woman  of  Lhassa, 
In  its  place, 

Is  an  invisible  element  of  that  place 
Made  visible. 


The    Little    Review 


Metaphors    of    a    Magnifico 

Twenty  men  crossing  a  bridge, 

Into  a  village, 

Are  twenty  men  crossing  twenty  bridges, 

Into  twenty  villages. 

Or  one  man 

Crossing  a  single  bridge  into  a  village. 

This  is  old  song 

That  will  not  declare  itself  ... 

Twenty  men  crossing  a  bridge, 

Into  a  village, 

Are 

Twenty  men  crossing  a  bridge 

Into  a  village. 

That  will  not  declare  itself 
Yet  is  certain  as  meaning  .  .  . 

The  boots  of  the  men  clump 
On  the  boards  of  the  bridge. 
The  first  white  wall  of  the  village 
Rises  through  fruit-trees. 

Of  what  was  it  I  was  thinking? 

So  the  meaning  escapes. 

The  first  white  wall  of  the  village  . . . 
The  fruit-trees  .  . 


The    Little    Review 


Depression    before    Spring 


The  cock  crows 
But  no  queen  rises. 

The  hair  of  my  blonde 
Is  dazzling, 
As  the  spittle  of  cows 
Threading  the  wind. 

Ho!     Ho! 

But  ki-ki-ri-ki 
Brings  no  rou-cou, 
No  rou-cou-cou. 

But  no  queen  comes 
In  slipper  green. 


PROSE  ABOUT  LOVE 

William   Carlos   Williams 

[LOVE  you !  It  lays  everything  fiat  before  it  and  scatters  its  own 
roses  and  palm  branches.  It-  is  as  it  were  some  fabulous  sword 
>vhich  will  not  be  gainsaid.  But  it  is  a  weapon  of  appalling  difficulty 
0  the  human  hand.  Naturally  each  imagines  himself  the  one  to 
.vield  it,  so  that  the  phrase  has  inevitably  become  tangled  in  a  snarl 
>f  vain  excuses:  whole  libraries  are  built  of  nonsensical  twaddle  ex- 
>laining  love  :     a  blade  encrusted  with  historic  stupidities. 

The  justice  which  gives  life  to  Boccaccio's  tales  is  the  all-per- 
/ading  power  of  love.  The  modern  tolerance  of  The  Decameron 
[Macy's  $1.45)  is  partly  Protestant  spite  and  partly  the  corrup- 
norality  which  ascribes  to  the  tales  a  satiric  attack  upon  the  corrup- 
:ion  of  the  clergy.     Pure  nonsense!     Love  lives  everywhere,  says 


The     Little     Review 


Boccaccio,  and  proceeds  to  the  celebration.  But  perhaps  it  would 
be  as  well  to  talk  of  matters  of  style  and  not  quote  from  the  tale  of 
Spinelloccio  Tanena  and  Zeppo  di  Mino.  Boccaccio  lived  in  a  time 
when  love  was  at  the  noon. 

Today  —  !  In  Johannisfeuer,  Sudermann  takes  as  a  theme 
the  proposition  that  passion  has  come  too  late;  it  is  merely  a  pagan 
survival ,  a  St.  John's  bonfire ,  a  dying  flash  from  an  outworn  flame 
Sudermann  is  frankly  pessimistic.  In  his  environment  and  time  one 
could  not  logically  be  otherwise.  A  poet  would  have  gone  insane. 
Nietzsche  went  insane.  In  this  same  environment  Richard  Wagner, 
after  a  brave  burst  of  passion  extending  over  nearly  his  whole  life' 
came  at  last  to— Kundry,  Parsival,  the  Christian  myth  and  forgiv- 
ness! 

Or  witness  Lope  de  Vega  Carpio's  life  as  set  down  by  James 
Fitzmaurice-Kelly  (edited  by  Edmund  Gosse!):  "Lope  lived  a  life 
of  gallantry,  and  troubled  his  wife's  last  years  by  his  intrigue  with 
Maria  de  Lujan  ...  A  relapsing,  carnal  sinner  Lope  was  more  weak 
than  bad:  his  rare  intellectual  gifts  .  .  .  led  him  into  temptation.— 
I  hose  who  wish  to  study  the  abasement  of  an  august  spirit  may  do  so 
m  the  Ultimos  Amores  de  Lope  de  Vega  Carpio—"  etc.  Here  is  the 
authentic  and  disgusting  mixture  of  pity  and  pious  censure  which 
I  seek  to  brand  as  the  modern  attitude  toward  love. 

Ibsen  is  a  swelter  of  ignorance  on  this  point,  the  most  illuminat- 
ing example  of  the  perverse  possibilities  for  inverted  power  in  the 
phrase  "I  love  you! "  that  can  be  found,  and  for  the  reason  that  Ibsen 
truly  knew  love,--felt  its  power,  but  succumbed  to  its  difficulties 
God  rest  the  ashes  of  a  king! 

"Nils  Lykke?  Yes— perhaps,  but  the  sureness  of  touch  that 
created  Odyssius  beside  Circe  and  left  Penelope  waiting  —  no.  Only 
m  the  morose  and  abnormal  mind  of  a  Hedda  Gabbler  can  Ibsen 
safely  spread  his  wings— and  then  he  must  kill  the  lady  to  escape  his 
audience  and  keep  his  play  upon  the  boards. 

The  silly  "modern"  plays  about  illicit  love  affairs  after  mar- 
nage  end  either  happily  in  a  burst  of  laughter  or  sordidly  with  the 
discharge  of  a  pistol.  The  explosions  of  the  gunpowder  or  lau'-hter 
I  suppose  are  to  cover  the  fact  that  the  plays  are  without  intellectual 
climax  whatever.  They  end  and  the  audience  has  been  insulted  and 
likes  it. 

Shaw's  Candida  goes  along  rather  amusingly  in  the  spirit  of  a 


The    Little    Review 


childish  (though  false,  as  it  turns  out  later)  democracy  of  thought, 
aping  the  puzzled  romanticism  of  Ibsen.  We  are  given  a  few  nice 
Dickensesque  caricatures  of  English  middle  class  life,  but  in  addition 
the  feeling  is  of  an  actual  love  tussel  going  on  under  this  inconsequen- 
tial surface.  But  then,  having  got  his  situation  rather  well  in 
hand — love  on  the  high  road  to  satisfaction — the  author  shies  at  the 
last  barrier  and  conceeds  to  his  audience  that  he  has  been  after  all 
merely  manipulating  his  effigies  for  a  melodramatic  concession  to 
"the  play"  by  which  a  false  logic  is  forced  into  Candida's  mouth, 
making  a  conventional  finis.  What  really  has  happened  is  that  Shaw 
looses  his  nerve.  ,  , 

Candida  is  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  all  attempt  made  by 
Shavian  thought  to  cope  with  this  difficult  phrase,  I  love  you!  After 
this  first  play  there  is  never  again  an  attempt  to  meet  the  situation 
face  to  face  but  there  goes  on  a  cheap  tomfoolery, — always  stopping 
short  of  the  denoument  which  might  have  ended  Candida  brilliantly 
— but  distastefully  to  the  thought  of  the  day. 

I  love  you!  Every  approach  is  that  of  complete  evasion.  One 
remembers  the  fuss  kicked  up  by  The  Second  Mrs.  Tangueray ;  one 
thinks  of  papal  bulls  on  the  subject;  one  remembers  that  the  Russian 
Church  allows  of  no  divorce; — one  remembers  what  he  himself  wrote 
an  early  age. 

No  careful  young  man  or  woman  should  neglect  to  be  both  re- 
jected and  accepted  in  love;  that  for  a  start.  Half  an  imagination 
is  all  that  is  necessary  for  either  and  it  is  far  more  important  to  a 
man,  this  matter  of  love,  than  a  business  or  college  education,  which 
by  the  way  exist  by  and  for  love  only,  you  jackasses.  The  only  com- 
ment I  have  to  make  is:  treasure  your  chastity. 

The  man  of  spirit  is  chaste  up  to  the  beginning  of  the  child 
bearing  period — if  he  value  the  integrity  of  his  very  fragile  mind  as 
it  is  during  those  yeaia.    Later  the  conditions  are  obviously  changed. 

Having  attained  to  this  happy  state  of  complete  native  exper- 
ience— i.  e.,  having  been  both  rejected  and  accepted — at  this  point 
the  art  of  love  may  be  said  to  begin. 

I  take  note  of  none  whose  love  once  given  has  not  so  broken  him 
to  its  uses  that  he  is  forever  bent  like  a  tree  at  the  sea  shore.  By  this 
I  infer  that  no  matter  how  often  love  take  a  man.  the  object  of  that 
love  will  be  forever  sacred  and  especially  to  be  protected. 

Two  special  warnings:     Platonic  love  is  that  stage  of  affection 


The    Little    Review 


just  preceeding  mental  enlightenment.  It  does  not  do  to  linger  here 
on  pain  of  a  subtle  castration  or  a  stupid,  nearly  accidental  accom- 
plishment. Preceeding  marriage  a  man's  freedom  is  often  seriously 
compromised  by  the  fear  of  procreation.  All  one  can  say  to  this  is 
that  without  an  inborn  spiritual  clear  sightedness  one  may  make  a 
fool  of  himself  by  a  stupid  choice  of  partner.  Aim  higher  than  you 
expect  to  reach  and  be  thankful  if  you  have  aimed  high  enough. 

But  marriage,  ridiculously,  is  the  great  stumbling  block  of  all 
commentators  on  love.  They  seem  to  think  that  one  is  in  some  way 
related  to  the  other:  no  more  so  than  a  bird  to  the  tree  where  it 
perches.  The  thing  is  simplicity  itself.  The  Church,  good  God,  is 
old  enough  to  be  listened  to :  Marriage  is  permanent.  And  we  know 
of  course  that  love  is  changing. 

Freedom  must  end  here,  quotha!  Why,  without  an  affection 
that  has  led  to  marriage  it  is  impossible  to  continue  ably  in  the  art 
of  love.  Marriage  is  a  stigma  of  virulence,  the-without-which-none 
of  a  free  life. 

But  the  ferreting  habit  is  hard  to  break,  so  they  go  on,  these 
commentators,  every  man  or  woman,  top  and  bottom,  rotten  with 
hope! 

The  characteristic  of  marriage  is  its  earthiness,  its  stability.  It 
argues  a  certain  firmfootedness  of  the  spirit. 

A  wife  is  chosen— or  a  husband — by  reason  of  certain  attrac- 
tions of  more  or  less  importance,  depending  on  the  power  of  fore- 
sight in  the  individual  to  accord  his  life  with  a  spiritual  aim.  The 
western  habit  of  monogamy  is  closely  bound  up  with  the  inability 
to  marry  at  all,  that  is,  to  co-ordinate  effort  with  the  dirt.  The 
western  habit  of  one  wife  and  any  number  of  illicit  sweethearts  de- 
sirable is  the  only  habit  consistent  with  good  sense. 

To  a  man  of  early  power — and  power  must  come  early  to  be 
effective — the  sense  for  a  wife  is  strong  I  think.  To  have  failed  to 
pick  a  good  wife,  to  have  failed  in  the  initial  move  of  spiritual  con- 
struction implies  a  weak  spirit,  perhaps  a  weak  mind.  Dante  chose 
Beatrice  who  with  all  due  allowance  for  mediaeval  tenor  of  thought 
was  his  wife  in  exactly  the  sense  I  mean. 

To  a  man  of  spirit  the  loss  of  his  chosen  wife  will  be  a  spiritual 
catastrophy  of  such  magnitude  that  he  cannot  envision  it  without 
experiencing  at  the  same  time  a  sense  of  insecurity  extending  down 


The    Little    Review 


to  the  foundation  of  his  personal  consciousness.  Divorce  is  an  abom- 
ination as  repulsive  as  the  face  of  an  idiot  and  for  exactly  the  same 
reason.  Divorce  is  either  a  lamentable  confession  of  stupidity  or  it 
is  ineffective.  Shelley  made  a  profound  mistake  in  sharing  the  popu- 
lar confusion  as  to  what  marriage  is  and  is  not.  By  making  the  fuss 
he  did  he  merely  advertised  the  incapacity  of  his  own  pate  . 

It  would  be  a  base  stupidity  to  leave  the  art  of  love  to  bachelors 
and  maidens.  Only  the  married  know  love,  for  they  only  are  the 
ones  who  have  approached  the  question  simply  enough  to  have 
planted  themselves  firmly  in  its  way,— and  not  those  who  so  little 
consider  the  earth  as  to  have  made  of  it  a  kind  of  mental  froth  which 
thereupon  turns  about  and  solves  their  riddle,  since  one  becomes 
what  he  has  erroniously  imagined  just  as  one  becomes  what  he  has 
correctly  imagined.  Imagination  has  as  much  to  do  with  dirt  as  with 
whatever  other  fiber. 

Francesca  was  married,  Guinevere  was  married,  Ysoldt  was  mar- 
ried, Mdlisande  was  married,  Deirdre  was  married,  Helen  was  mar- 
ried, Beatrice  was  married  and  of  course  Odyssius  was  married — but 
men  are  more  secretive  about  these  things  than  women  are,  at  least 
they  do  not  let  themselves  get  put  into  literature. 

The  heart  has  springtimes  every  year.  So  it  has  its  winters  and 
so  a  man  should  separate  from  his  wife  at  the  time  of  some  foreign 
love  longing  on  either  part.  The  wife  is  then  in  the  winter  of  his 
affection  or  he  in  hers  and  is  so,  ice  bound  and  unresponsive,  just  as 
when  ice  holds  a  hitherto  lively  stream.  There  are  too  the  rare  plea- 
sures of  benevolence,  rare  because  seldom  enjoyed.  Separation  re- 
moves the  necessity  for  idle  pretenses  but  by  no  means  alters  the  con- 
jugal attachment  of  husband  and  wife. 

A  popular  and  idle  pastime,  so  cleverly  drawn  by  Moliere — 
who  knew  a  thing  or  two  about  married  life,  having  learnt  them  first 
hand,  purposely — is  for  lovers  to  deride  the  husband  as  one  who  has 
been  fooled.  This  is  not  only  bad  taste  but  may  be  as  often  as  not 
inaccurate  observation.  But  to  deride  a  wife  who  is  disarmed  be- 
cause of  her  affection  is  the  pastime  of  a  numbskull.  One's  ability 
to  remain  attached  to  his  wife  hinges  upon  the  accuracy  wilii  which 
his  own  life  has  been  conceived.  Moliere  wanted  to  write  a  certain 
kind  of  play  so  he  married  a  certain  kind  of  wife  .  .  She  worked  for 
him  properly  and  well. 

Love  does  not  seek  to  calumnise  anyone  nor  to  injure  any.    It 


10  The    Little    Review 


has  solely  to  do  with  itself.  All  the  stupidities  of  which  plays  are 
made  and  books  written!  The  ignorant  tattle  of  the  so-called  tri- 
angle and  the  wise  squabbling  with  the  Divine  Church!  The  jejune 
crusade  for  free  love!  it  is  all  infantile,  weak  brained!  The  cry 
after  free  love  is  like  a  man  running  from  house  to  house  ringing  the 
door  bells  and  telling  folk  that  it  is  daylight!  Concupiscence  is  the 
imbecile  side  of  love  attractions. 

Fully  roused  men  in  every  age  have  had  all  the  lovers  they 
wanted,  but  usually  one  wife — imagined  or  real.  But  all  plain  or 
simple  truth  comes  slowly  into  its  own. 

Every  aristocracy  has  known  what  I  have  set  down  here,  but 
what  they  have  not  known  is  that  to  keep  knowledge  the  secret  of  a 
class  means  death  to  it.  To  all  truth  life!  Science  died  in  alchemy, 
religion  died  in  papacy,  etc.  All  knowledge  must  be  infused  with 
t!he  ether  of  complete  dispersion  or  it  dies. 

Strong  men  have  had  their  concubines — perhaps  one,  perhaps 
many,  women  likewise — and  will  continue  to  have  them;  but  by 
keeping  this  a  secret,  holding  it  from  public  view,  weaklings  are 
given  a  chance  to  ape  their  betters  in  perfect  security  until  the  whole 
system  is  brought  into  disrepute  and  decay  sets  in. 

Ha,  my  good  simple  people,  you  are  fooled  by  your  betters  who 
keep  you  confused  for  their  profit.  But  the  truth  is,  I  don't  know 
which  of  you  is  the  more  muddle-headed.  Here  truth's  set  down. 
Don't  be  puffed  up!  This  isn't  the  flattery  of  a  sermon  but  a  scien- 
tific treatise,  for  love's  sake. 

We  are  most  of  us  a  stingy  lot,  we  want  all  for  ourselves,  we 
want  to  imagine  that  for  a  moment  at  least  we  have  become  canni- 
bals and  have  eaten  our  sweetheart  body  and  soul,  at  the  very  least 
to  the  exclusion  of  a  thievish  fellow.  Of  course  when  one  is  in  love 
the  concentration  is  such  that  this  reaction  is  humanly  natural,  but 
the  good  of  the  thing  is  not  in  that  but  in  that  intense  vision  which 
love  is  for  its  little  moment. 

Choke  back  the  folly,  the  purtian  folly  that  forbids  you  to  say, 
I  love  you!     Say  it, — if  you  can. 

Of  love's  humility  and  its  gentleness  no  prose  can  speak  in  fit 
terms — no  didactic  prose  at  any  rate. 

One  should  not  forget  of  course  that  manners  are  not  nearly  on 
a  level  with  art.  It  is  pure  stupidity  to  act  as  if  they  were — which 
of  course  salts  all  I  have  said. 


The    Little    Review  ii 


LOVE    SONG 

William   Carlos   Williams 
HE 

You  have  come  between  me  and  the  terrifying  presence 

of  the  moon,  the  stars,  the  sun  and  the  earth 

•with  all  its  crooked  outgrowths.    The  desolation  of  life 

has  been  darkened  by  your  shadow,  but  toward  me 

your  face  has  been  a  light,  your  hands  have  been 

a  soft  rain,  the  voice  from  between  your  lips 

a  thing  that  carries  me  as  the  air  carries  a  bird. 

I  have  spread  my  arms  out  with  wide  feeling  you  about  me 

and  looked  up  and  taken  a  deep  breath!     Deep, 

deep!     an  April  in  every  finger  tip! 

4 

SHE 

From  your  eyes,  from  among  what  you  say, 
tangled  like  a  singing  bird  in  a  green  tree, 
you  have  entered  and  spread  down  through  me  all 
so  that  I  treasure  my  youth  again  and  wish  it 
never  to  go  from  me — for  it  is  not  mine  but  yours 
that  I  shall  hold  warmly,  safely  within  me  forever. 

{after  a  pause) 

SHE 

Your  love  song  halts  and  repeats. 

HE 

Your  song  is  glib. 


12  The    Little    Review 


DREAMS    IN    WAR    TIME 

Amy   Lowell 

I 

I  wandered  through  a  house  of  many  rooms. 

It  grew  darker  and  darker, 

Until,  at  last,  I  could  only  find  my  way 

By  passing  my  fingers  along  the  wall. 

Suddenly  my  hand  shot  through  an  open  window, 

And  the  thorn  of  a  rose  I  could  not  see 

Pricked  it  so  sharply 

That  I  cried  aloud. 

II 

I  dug  a  grave  under  an  oak  tree. 

With  infinite  care,  I  stamped  my  spade 

Into  the  heavy  grass. 

The  sod  sucked  it, 

And  I  drew  it  out  with  effort. 

Watching  the  steel  run  liquid  in  the  moonlight 

As  it  came  clear. 

I  stooped,  and  dug,  and  never  turned, 

For  behind  me. 

On  the  dried  leaves, 

My  own  face  lay  like  a  white  pebble, 

Waiting. 

Ill 

I  gambled  with  a  silver  money. 

The  dried  seed-vessels  of  "honesty" 

Were  stacked  in  front  of  me. 

Dry,  white  years  slipping  through  my  fingers 

One  by  one. 

One  by  one,  gathered  by  the  Croupier. 

"Faites  vos  jeux.  Messieurs." 


The     Little     Review  13 

I  staked  on  the  red, 

And  the  black  won. 

Dry  years. 

Dead  years; 

But  I  had  a  system, 

I  always  staked  on  the  red. 

I  painted  the  leaves  of  bushes  red 

And  shouted:  "Fire!     Fire!" 

But  the  neighbors  only  laughed. 

"We  cannot  warm  our  hands  at  them,"  they  said. 

Then  they  cut  down  my  bushes, 

And  made  a  bonfire, 

And  danced  about  it. 

But  I  covered  my  face  and  wept, 

For  ashes  are  not  beautiful 

Even  in  the  dawn. 

V 

I  followed  a  procession  of  singing  girls 

Who  danced  to  the  glitter  of  tambourines. 

"U^ere  the  street  turned  at  a  lighted  corner, 

I  caught  the  purple  dress  of  one  of  the  dancers, 

But,  as  I  grasped  it,  it  tore. 

And  the  purple  dye  ran  from  it 

Like  blood 

Upon  the  ground. 

VJ 

I  wished  to  post  a  letter, 

But  although  I  paid  much. 

Still  the  letter  was  overweight. 

"What  is  in  this  package?"  said  the  clerk, 

It  is  very  heavy." 

"Yes,"  I  said, 

"And  yet  it  is  only  a  dried  fruit." 


14  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


VII 

I  had  made  a  kite. 
On  it  I  had  pasted  golden  stars, 
And  white  topches, 

*And  the  tail  was  spotted  scarlet 'like  a  tiger-lily, 
And  very  long. 
I  flew  fny  kite, 
And  my  soul  was  contented 
Watching  it  flash  against  the  concave  of  the  sky. 
My  friends  pointed  at  the  clouds; 
They  begged  me  to  take  in  my  kite. 
But  I  was  happy 
Seeing  the  mirror  shock  of  it 
Against  the  black  clouds. 
Then  the  lightning  came 
And  struck  the  kite. 
It  puffed — blazed — fell. 
But  still  I  walked  on, 
In  the  drowning  rain. 
Slowly  winding  up  the  string. 


LUST 
Ben    Hecht 

I  USED  to  frequent  the  Blue  Inn  to  hear  Pippa  play.  She  was 
a  strange  fragile  creature  with  a  curious  gnome-like  face  that 
seemed  to  have  been  colored  by  the  moon.  Her  body  in  its  invariable 
lavender  dress  was  like  a  little  round  column  of  vanishing  smoke. 
On  the  performers'  platform  in  the  Blue  Inn  Pippa  played  the  violin 
between  six  o'clock  and  nine,  the  hours  during  which  the  greedy 
half-dead  put  fuel  into  their  bellies. 

Now  that  Pippa  is  dead  I  sometimes  return  to  the  Blue  Inn  and 
behind  a  bottle  of  wine  sit  and  think  of  her  with  a  proper  sadness. 
On  the  performers'  platform  a  muscular  woman  plays  the  violin. 
She  is  dressed  like  a  woman  about  to  dance  in  a  ball-room.  And 
while  the  greedy  half-dead  stuff  fuel  into  their  bellies  she  plays  for 


The     Little     Review  15 

them  saccharine  meditations  and  toilet-water  ballads.  I  remember 
as  I  look  at  the  amorous  grease  on  this  woman's  face  how  I  met 
Pippa  and  why  she  died.  Alas.  Pippa  was  so  easy  to  kill  there  is 
perhaps  no  moral,  no  point  to  these  memories  of  mine.  The  yellow 
wine  in  my  glass  twinkles  like  an  eye  of  topaz.  Outside  is  the  city, 
the  Ophelia  of  stone  that  shrieks  and  babbles  between  the  move- 
ments of  the  sun.  Always  in  the  back  of  my  brain  there  is  present 
the  city,  an  elephantine  grimace,  a  wilderness  of  angles,  a  swarm  of 
gestures  that  caress  my  thought  like  a  dream  unborn. 

From  her  place  on  the  performers'  platform  Pippa  played  the 
violin.  She  wore  a  lavander  dress  and  in  her  dark  eyes  (this  was  the 
first  time  I  saw  her)  were  strange  vibrations  of  yellow  light.  The 
Inn  was  filled  with  people,  elaborately  dressed  women  and  shiningly 
groomed  men.  They  sat  grouped  about  white^linened  and  silver- 
laden  tables,  an  ornamental  and  grimacing  little  multitude.  The 
men  and  women  who  came  to  the  Blue  Inn  came  as  to  some  grave 
rite.  They  moved  to  their  tables  with  an  unctious  nonchalance. 
The  women  were  dressed  in  effulgent  silks,  their  flesh  gleaming 
among  the  spaces  of  exotic  plumage  and  flaires  of  luxurious  and 
satin  distortions.  They  were  like  a  company  of  erotic, puppets,  these 
women,  whose  bold  bodies  lived  in  a  secret  world.  Their  clothes 
formed  a  separate  company  that  gestured  and  grimaced  with  the 
grotesque  charm  and  passion  of  lustful  marionettes.  From  the  secret 
world  which  they  inhabited  their  bodies,  moist  and  earth-skinned, 
beckoned  with  a  luscious  and  perverse  denial  of  artifice. 

On  the  walls  of  the  Blue  Inn  which  were  lost  in  shadows  were 
painted  nymphs  and  satyrs  sprawling  over  tapestried  landscapes. 
The  insistently  naked  bodies  of  the  nymphs  lay  like  newly-bathed 
housemaids  under  the  trees  and  amid  the  stiff  park  scenery.  Viewed 
through  the  shadow  they  seemed  miracles  of  photographic  lechery, 
a  leering  profusion  of  creatures  from  the  secret  world,  who  had  re- 
moved their  beauty  with  their  clothes. 

The  people  who  were  eating  occasionally  looked  at  the  walls 
and  their  decorations.  The  men  sometimes  studied  the  naked  figures 
with  a  profound  interest,  eyeing  the  women  near  them  shrewdly  as 
they  turned  away.  The  women  sometimes  gazed  with  serious  un- 
concentrated  eyes  at  the  paintings,  growing  tender  and  quiet  towards 
their  escorts. 

In  the  center  of  the  great  room  was  the  motif  of  the  place,  a 


i6  The    Little    Review 


fountain  surmounted  by  a  marble  nude  who  knelt  upon  a  rocky  pin- 
nacle. The  figure  crouched  in  a  posture  of  surprise  and  gazed  into 
-the  water  of  the  large  tiled  basin  below.  The  fountain  gushed  up 
around  her  in  an  endless  spray  of  twisted  gauzes,  veiling  her  as  it 
fell,  and  filling  the  air  with  an  odorless  spice.  Blue  electric  lights 
hidden  in  the  crevices  of  the  structure  cast  an  amorous  glow,  a  sort  of 
artificial  moonlight  upon  the  tables  that  surrounded  it.  Beneath  the 
cobalt  water  of  the  fountain  basin  moved  colored  fish  gliding  under 
the  surface  like  a  weaving  procession  of  little  fat  Mandarins.  The 
remainder  of  the  room  was  illumined  with  blue  shaded  lights  and 
the  air  was  heavy  with  the  uncoiling  lavender  wreaths  of  tobacco 
smoke.  A  luxurious  suppression  as  that  about  some  priapic  altar, 
produced  here  by  the  artificial  shadows,  the  painted  lights  and  the 
forlorn  ripplings  of  the  fountain,  sat  grotesquely  upon  the  place. 

The  faces  of  the  diners  were  bathed  in  the  warm  tones  of  the 
lights  which  tinted  their  cheeks  with  mildly  sinister  glints  and  drop- 
ped whimsical  shadows  across  their  mouths.  It  was  here  the  gestures 
detached  from  the  common  larva  of  the  streets  came  to  dine,  a  cur- 
ious aristocracy  crowned  with  a  fulgurating  complacency.  Huddled 
together  in  thejugubrious  painted  twilight  they  sat  in  a  gluttinous 
and  mysterious  comradarie,  perpetually  eating  and  murmuring. 
The  waiters  in  shining  beetle-backed  black  coats  with  gold-buttoned 
red  vests  moved  continuously  about,  bringing  food  upon  huge  sliver 
platters  or  wheeling  it  in  on  little  enamelled  wagons  from  which  arose, 
as  from  sacrificial  pyres,  blue  and  violet  jets  of  flame.  Through  the  air 
slipped  the  sounds  of  laughter,  the  cacophony  of  knives  and  forks, 
the  melodious  and  fugitive  tinkle  of  glass  ware  and  the  spurting 
gutterals  of  human  voices  bursting  in  an  endless  muffled  obligato. 

Pippa  came  foward  to  play  upon  her  violin.  I  raised  my  eyes 
and  saw  her  for  the  first  time.  In  this  room  of  rutelian 
artifice  she  seemed  a  creature  of  neurotic  simplicity.  Her  elfin 
proportions,  the  color  of  her  face  and  arms  so  reminiscent  of  moon- 
light, the  monotone  of  her  dress  and  body,  appeared  for  the  moment 
like  some  ultimate  study  in  roccoco.  Then  I  perceived  that  Pippa 
who  played  the  violin  might  sit  as  she  was  beside  a  river  in  a  sunlit 
wood  with  her  feet  dangling  above  the  dark  silver  of  the  water  and 
belong  there.  The  music  of  the  violin  accompanied  by  harp  and 
piano  fell  soothingly  upon  the  air.  The  noises  abated.  The  serious 
jingle  of  the  cutlery  alone  persisted  and  the  multitude  seemed  lost 


The    Little    Review  17 

in  a  sweet  innocuous  contemplation  that  was  relieved  only  by  the 
ceaseless  grimacings  of  its  distended  jaws  and  throats.  As  the  music 
grew  sweeter,  more  saccharincly  eloquent,  the  smear  of  faces  became 
less  animated.  The  eating  continued,  however,  as  if  under  the 
sudden  necessity  of  secrecy.  Lips  remained  engaged  in  detached  and 
obscene  gesticulations,  noses  dilating  and  twitching,  tongues  twist- 
ing and  washing  in  an  invisible  frenzy.  In  the  quiet  which  had  fal- 
len the  abandonement  of  the  eaters  continued  to  reflect  itself  in  the 
continuous  spasms  which  contorted  their  faces. 

Of  such  things  I  had  not  been  aware  before,  but  now  the  smoke- 
like frality  of  Pippa  seemed  to  carry  me  out  of  the  scene  and  it  was 
with  her  dark  eyes  tipped  with  wraiths  of  yellow  that  I  stared  about. 
I  had  glimpsed  in  these  curious  eyes  of  hers  and  in  the  nudity  of  her 
manner  a  creature  through  whose  viens  disgust  and  nausea  moved 
like  heavy  poisons.  Spitted  against  the  grey  curtain  like  some  rare 
lavender  m.oth  upon  an  exhibitor's  board,  Pippa  played,  and  the  in- 
sistent mewing  of  her  violin  with  its  dolorous  mockery  became  for 
me  the  crying  of  her  body  rather  than  the  sounds  of  a  little  wooden 
instrument. 

"Phantasy,"  I  thought  and  looked  with  a  smile  into  the  topaz 
wine. 

But  my  imagination  whispered  to  me  it  had  not  lied.  I  watched 
Pippa  and  observed  that  the  moonlight  color  of  her  face  was  in  realty 
a  frown  which  spread  its  dark  beam  from  her  eyes  and  bathed  her 
features.  And  more  than  before  I  drew  close  to  the  anguish  that 
beckoned  to  me  out  of  the  little  violin  player.  When  I  again  looked 
about  me  a  certain  curious  detachment  had  come  into  my  eyes  and 
the  scene  appeared  to  have  popped  into  some  new  and  glaring  focus 
for  me.  I  saw  the  foreheads  of  the  diners  glistening  with  a  fine  sweat 
that  was  reproduced  on  the  backs  of  the  women's  necks,  upon  their 
chins,  under  their  raised  arms,  and  gleamed  again  upon  the  cool  in- 
tervals of  breasts  staring  white  and  bulbous  out  of  a  secret  world. 

The  music  from  the  platform  grew  livlier,  leaving  the  wailing 
adagio  for  a  scherzo  movement.  The  quick  iiicompleted  flourishes 
of  arms  and  hands,  the  syncopated  bobbing  of  heads,  became  more 
intense.  The  boom  and  jerk  of  human  voices  sounded  once  more. 
From  mouths  opening  and  shutting  in  a  swollen  and  delicious  dis- 
comfort appeared  glimpses  of  salavic  meat  and  bread.  The  wrig- 
gling of  bodies  in  a  growing  satiety  of  tepid  lusts,  the  glassiness  of 


i8  The    Little    Review 


eyes  lighted  for  instants  by  visions  of  bloody  meats,  the  smacking, 
gasping,  faintly  growling  sounds  which  accompanied  the  contorted 
animations  of  faces,  transformed  the  multitude  into  a  confusion  of 
toilet-like  sensuality.  To  this  scene  Pippa  played,  her  eyes  gleaming 
like  avenging  birds  over  the  drab  erotic  of  the  restaurant. 

For  a  moment  she  encountered  me  and  her  gaze  remained  fixed 
and  I  felt  that  she  was  speaking  to  me.  Then  her  eyes  wandered 
and  I  knew  that  she  was  cricling  the  faces  at  the  tables,  men's  faces 
smiling,  glowering,  beseeching  as  they  peered  at  women;  faces  blue 
empty;  thick  green  faces  filled  with  slovenly  languish.  It  was  the 
and  apoplectic,  round,  red,  white,  pointed,  chubby,  malformed  and 
faces  of  the  women  that  Pippa  watched  most.  The  shining  coiffeurs 
alive  with  garnet  and  russet  gleams,  the  glowing  beady  eyes  gave 
her  a  sense  of  so  many  masks  carefully  cut  behind  which  things  hid. 
This  I  knew  then  as  I  sipped  at  the  topaz  in  my  glass.  And  I  knew 
also  that  this  smoke-like  creature  Tiad  been  looking  down  ir^to  the 
simmering  vat  of  faces  until  a  curious  mania  had  darkened  her  own , 

As  she  played  a  fury  possessed  her.  I  watched  her  sway.  The 
thoughts  which  came  into  my  head  I  called  her  thoughts,  and  I 
watched  the  steaming  gelatinous  dishes  and  the  bathed  trim  faces 
above  them  become  as  one, — carcass  devouring  carcass.  A  delicate 
necrophelia,  a  hideous  rhythmic  convulsion  appeared  to  Pippa,  in 
my  thought,  to  have  taken  possession  of  us  who  sat  before  her.  And 
now  and  then,  still  with  her  thought,  I  could  distinguish  sharply  a 
woman  eating  wtih  perverse  daintiness,  working  her  features  with 
piquant  deliberation,  smiling,  primping,  swallowing  her  food  as  one 
oblivious  to  a  vulgar  indescretion.  Another  toying  gently  with  the 
contents  of  her  plate,  attitudinizing  as  grotesquely  as  some  Dido 
in  a  bathroom,  eating  with  an  ennui  which  stamped  her  as  an 
Uranian  of  gourmonds. 

And"  under  the  tables  Pippa  saw  their  feet,  the  cunningly  shod 
feet  of  the  women  emerging  from  the  secret  world,  the  awkward 
stretch  of  the  silkened  bird-like  legs  which  like  a  lifeless  mechanism 
lay  in  disjointed  collapse  above  the  floor.  These  feet  of  the  men 
and  women  seemed  a  company  of  their  own  under  the  tables,  lavishly 
scrolled  and  attired,  slothful  debauches  that  moved  imperceptibly, 
embraced,  entwined,  kissed  and  stared.  Here  was  unconsciousness 
of  wrinkles  and  folds  of  flesh  and  continually  devouring  jaws,  here 
a  silent  stoical  intimacy.    And  yet  to  Pippa  the  shining  leather,  the 


The    Little    Review  19 

gleaming  arches  above  the  shoes,  the  faintly  glowing  stockings,  and 
the  creeping  tenacious  movement  of  these  feet  were  like  the  phleg- 
matic shadows  of  some  terrible  nakedness. 

Later  I  met  Pippa.  It  was  in  the  city  walking  along  the 
avenue  which  faces  the  lake  and  lies  like  a  large  yellow  cat  purring 
in  the  sun.  In  this  light  and  even  under  the  menacing  walls  of  the 
buildings,  there  was  about  Pippa's  body  as  she  moved  a  curious  un- 
corseted  rhythm  such  as  trees  have  when  they  bend  in  the  wind. 
We  walked  together  and  talked  and  I  knew  that  the  things  I  had 
thought  watching  her  in  the  Blue  Inn  had  not  been  chimeras  from 
the  topaz  in  my  glass.  Her  face  as  she  talked  had  the  gleam  of  a 
frightened  nymph.  We  hurried  along  the  bottoms  of  great  buildings. 
She  had  few  words  and  spoke  hurriedly  so  that  her  sentences  died 
amid  the  racket  of  the  traffic.  I  told  her  what  I  had  imagined  lis- 
tening to  her  play  and  she  answered  in  matter  of  fact  words  . 

"Yes,"  she  said,  "I  can't  endure  it.  Everything  is  lust.  The 
dirty  lust  of  the  city,  the  lust  of  the  restaurant  and  the  streets.  And 
the  women,  they  keep  parading  in  my  head  when  I  try  to  fall  asleep. 
There  is  something  terrible  and  unclean  about  life.  I  can't  make 
out  what  it  is.  But  it  keeps  choking  me  and  making  me  dark  inside. 
At  night  I  have  horrible  dreams  and  the  city  becomes  an  animal 
with  its  tongue  hanging  out,  running  back  and  forth  as  if  it  were 
blind,  and  steaming  at  the  mouth.  I  know  it's  foolish  to  think  such 
things.  But  in  the  restaurant  it  comes  to  me  so  strong  that  I  play 
only  mechanically  and  almost  .  .  .  almost  die." 

There  were  other  times  that  I  saw  Pippa,  and  my  philosophy 
ripened  upon  her  agonized  words.  The  thing  which  is  always  in  the 
back  of  my  head,  the  elephantine  grimace  of  the  city,  became  when 
I  was  with  her  something  close  and  almost  with  outline.  Through 
the  nauseous  mania  of  her  soul  I  looked  as  through  some  rare  lens 
into  the  streets,  into  the  places  where  the  little  greedy  half  dead 
swarm.  During  the  day  surrounded  by  the  din  and  grime  of  the 
city  I  thought  of  Pippa  who  at  night,  spitted  against  the  grey  cur- 
tain of  the  perfromers'  platform,  would  play  the  violin. 

"Is  it  ugliness?"  I  asked  her  one  time  much  later.  She  said, 
"No."  Her  eyes  had  grown  'darker  and  wilder.  We  walked  on  hur- 
ridely  in  the  afternoon  picking  our  way  through  the  rush  of  people 
and  traffic. 

"I  don't  know  what  anymore,"  she  said.  "It  keeps  close  to  me. 


20  The    Little    Review 


Oh  I  hate,  hate.    I  keep  feeling  the  breath  of  an  animal  on  my  necl 
on  the  back  of  my  neck  ..." 

It  was  summer,  and  when  Pippa  told  me  that  she  was  to  hav 
a  rest  of  three  weeks  I  selected  for  her  a  place  beyond  the  city,  h 
the  edge  of  a  great  wood  I  had  once  found  a  little  house,  and  thith( 
Pippa  went.  She  smiled  from  the  train  window  at  me  and  I,  thinl- 
ing  of  the  promise  that  I  would  come  in  four  days,  waved  my  ham 

When  I  came  to  see  Pippa  it  was  evening  and  the  world  aboi 
the  wood  was  as  silent  as  the  sky.  The  people  who  lived  in  th 
house  told  me  Pippa  had  gone  away  in  the  morning  into  the  woe  \ 
and  had  not  returned.  I  waited  until  the  darkness  had  settled  inl 
the  deep  impenetrable  mist  of  night  that  swims  through  woodf 
places.  And  then  the  old  man  of  the  house  and  I  went  out  to  loc 
for  Pippa.  The  odor  of  the  wood  stirred  the  darkness  and  the  litt 
rustling  symphony  of  the  wood  hung  like  a  lace  of  sound  upon  tl 
silence.  Here  and  there  the  moon  lay  in  spectral  hexagons  amoi 
the  thick  black  trees.  We  walked  until  we  came  to  a  river  and  ( 
its  bank  we  sat  down.  We  had  been  sitting  thus  for  long  minut 
in  silence  when  floating  gently  upon  the  black  water  I  saw  the  whi 
body  of  a  girl.  It  was  Pippa  naked.  She  moved  in  a  slow,  aimle 
manner  toward  us.  Her  hair,  loosened,  played  across  her  breasts 
little  black  moonbeams.  Her  lips  were  opened  and  the  water  fr 
licked  in  little  silver  bursts  upon  her  teeth.  Her  eyes  like  flakes 
snow  twinkled  under  the  black  mirror  of  the  river. 


HAUNTS 

Carl  Sandburg 

There  are  places  I  go  when  I  am  strong. 
One  is  a  marsh^pool  where  I  used  to  go 

with  a  long-ear  hound-dog. 
One  is  a  wild  crabapple  tree;  I  was  there 

a  moonHght  night  with  a  girl. 
The  dog  is  gone;  the  girl  is  gone;  I  go  to  these 

places  when  there  is  no  other  place  to  go.        % 


The    Little    Review  21 


POEMS 

Mark  Turbyfill 

Shapes 

Let  us  deliberately  sit  into  design 
With  these  elephant's  ears 
Stretched  from  the  glazed  pot 
Into  green  wax  consciousness. 

Let  us  exert 
Our  unused  selves 
Into  other  static 
Sharpnesses. 

In  what  fleet  gestures 
Have  you  found  eternity? 

His  amber  painted  torso 
A  Persian  dancer 
Has  conceived  into  a  leaf-line, 
The  head  inclined. 

She    Goes    to    Pisa 

{to  M.  G.) 

She  has  rounded  her  shoulders 
To  the  curve  of  his  arm 
And  walked 
With  him  slowly. 

She  has  walked  with  him 

Slowly: 

Granite  procession, 

White  gesture  of  stars. 


Wonna  Vanna".  January,  1918. 


22  The    Little    Review 


THE  MAN  OF  IDEAS 

Sherwood   Anderson 

HE  LIVED  with  his  mother,  a  grey,  silent  woman  with  a  peculiar 
ashy  complexion.  The  house  in  which  they  lived  stood 
among  a  little  grove  of  trees  beyond  where  the  Main  Street  of  Wines- 
burg,  Ohio,  crossed  Wine  creek.  His  name  was  Joe  Welling  and  his 
father  had  been  a  man  of  some  dignity  in  the  community,  a  lawyer 
and  a  member  of  the  state  legislature  at  Columbus.  Joe  himself  was 
small  of  body  and  in  his  character  unlike  anyone  else  in  town. 
He  was  like  a  tiny  little  volcano  that  lies  silent  for  days  and  then 
of  a  sudden  spouts  fire.  No  he  wasn't  like  that.  He  was  like  a 
man  who  is  subject  to  fits,  one  who  walks  among  his  fellow  men 
inspiring  fear  because  the  fits  may  come  suddenly  and  blow  him 
away  into  a  strange  uncanny  physical  state  in  which  his  eyes  roll 
and  his  legs  and  arms  jerk.  He  was  like  that;  only  the  visita- 
tion that  descended  upon  Joe  Welling  was  a  mental  and  not  a  phy- 
sical thing.  .He  was  Jaeset  by  ideas  and  in  the  throes  of  one  of  his 
ideas  was  uncontrollable.  Words  rolled  and  tumbled  from  his 
mouth.  A  peculiar  smile  came  upon  his  lips.  The  edges  of  his 
teeth  that  were  tipped  with  gold  glistened  in  the  light.  Pouncing 
upon  a  bystander  be  began  to  talk.  For  the  bystander  there  was 
no  escape.  The  excited  man  breathed  into  his  face,  peered  into 
his  eyes,  pounded  upon  his  chest  with  a  shaking  forefinger,  de- 
manded, compelled,  attention. 

In  those  days  the  Standard  Oil  Company  did  not  deliver  oil 
to  the  consumer  in  big  wagons  and  motor  trucks  as  they  do  now 
but  delivered  instead  to  retail  grocers,  hardware  stores  and  the  like; 
and  Joe  was  the  Standard  Oil  agent  in  Winesburg  and  in  several 
towns  up  and  down  the  railroad  that  went  through  Winesburgr  He 
collected  bills,  booked  orders,  and  did  other  things.  His  father 
the  legislator  had  secured  the  job  for  him. 

In  and  out  of  the  stores  of  Winesburg  went  Joe  Welling,  silent, 
excessively  polite,  intent  upon  his  business.  Men  watched  him  with 
eyes  in  which  lurked  amusement  tempered  by  alarm.  They  were 
waiting  for  him  to  break  forth,  preparing  to  flee.     Although  the 


The    Little    Review  23 


seizures  that  came  upon  him  were  harmless  enough  they  could  not 
be  laughed  away.  They  were  overwhelming.  Astride  an  idea  Joe 
was  overmastering.  His  personality  became  gigantic.  It  overrode 
the  man  to  whom  he  talked,  swept  him  away,  swept  all  away,  all 
who  stood  within  sound  of  his  voice. 

In  Sylvester  West's  drug  store  stood  four  men  who  were  talk- 
ing of  horse  racing.  Wesley  Moyer's  stallion,  Tony  Tip,  was  to 
race  at  the  June  meeting  at  Tiffin  Ohio  and  there  was  a  rumour 
that  he  would  meet  the  stiffest  competition  of  his  career.  It  was 
said  that  Pop  Geers,  the  great  racing  driver,  would  himself  be 
there.  A  doubt  of  the  success  of  Tony  Tip  hung  heavily  in  the 
air  of  Winesburg. 

Into  the  drug  store  came  Joe  Welling,  brushing  the  screen 
door  violently  aside.  With  a  strange  absorbed  light  in  his  eyes  he 
pounced  upon  Ed  Thomas,  he  who  knew  Pop  Geers  and  whose 
opinion  of  Tony  Tip's  chances  was  worth  considering. 

"The  water  is  up  in  Wine  Creek"  cried  Joe  Welling,  with  the 
air  of  Phidippides  demanding  aid  for  the  Greeks  in  the  struggle  at 
Mlarathon.  His  finger  beat  a  tattoo  upon  Ed  Thomas's  broad 
chest.  "By  Trunnion's  bridge  it  is  within  eleven  and  a  half  inches 
of  the  flooring"  he  went  on,  the  words  coming  quickly  and  with  a 
little  whistling  noise  from  between  his  teeth.  An  expression  of  help- 
less annoyance  crept  over  the  faces  of  the  four. 

"I  have  my  facts  correct.  Depend  upon  that.  -  I  went  to  Sin- 
ning's  Hardware  store  and  got  a  rule.  Then  I  went  back  and 
measured.  I  could  hardly  believe  my  ov;n  eyes.  It  hasn't  rained 
you  see  for  ten  days.  At  first  I  didn't  know  what  to  think.'. 
Thoughts  rushed  through  my  head.  I  thought  of  subterrenean  pas- 
sages and  springs.  Down  under  the  ground  went  my  mind,  delving 
about.  I  sat  on  the  floor  of  the  bridge  and  rubbed  my  head.  There 
wasn't  a  cloud  in  the  sky,  not  one.  Come  out  into  the  street  and 
you  will  see.    There  wasn't  a  cloud.    There  isn't  a  cloud  now. 

"Yes,  there  was  a  cloud.  I  don't  want  to  keep  back  any  facts. 
There  was  a  cloud  in  the  west,  down  near  the  horizon,  a  cloud  no 
bigger  than  a  man's  hand. 

"Not  that  I  think  that  has  anything  to  do  with  it.  There  it 
is,  you  see.     You  understand  how  puzzled  I  was. 

"Then  an  idea  came  to  me.  I  laughed.  You'll  laugh  too.  Of 
course  it  rained  over  in  Medinah  County.     That's  interesting,  eh? 


24  T he    Lit  tie    Review 


If  we  had  no  trains,  no  mails,  no  telegraph,  we  would  know  that 
it  rained  over  in  Medinah  County.  That's  where  Wine  Creek  comes 
from.  Everyone  knows  that.  Little  old  Wine  Creek  brought  us 
the  news.  That's  interesting.  I  laughed.  I  thought  I'd  tell  you. 
It's  interesting,  eh?" 

Joe  Welling  turned  and  went  out  at  the  door.  Taking  a  book 
from  his  pocket,  he  stopped  and  ran  a  finger  down  one  of  the  pages. 
Again  he  was  absorbed  in  his  duties  as  agent  of  the  Standard  Oil 
Company.  "Hern's  Grocery  will  be  getting  low  on  coal  oil.  I'll 
see  them"  he  muttered,  hurrying  along  the  street  and  bowing  po- 
litely to  the  right  and  left  at  the  people  walking  past.' 

When  George  Willard  went  to  work  for  the  Winesburg  Eagle 
he  was  besieged  by  Joe  Welling.  Joe  ^nvied  the  boy.  It  seemed 
to  him  that  he  himself  was  meant  by  nature  to  be  a  reporter  on  a 
newspaper.  "It  is  what  I  should  be  doing,  there  is  no  doubt  of  that" 
he  declared,  stopping  George  Willard  on  the  sidewalk  before  Daugh- 
erty's  Feed  Store.  His  eyes  began  to  glisten  and  his  forefinger  to 
tremble.  "Of  course  I  make  more  money  with  the  Standard  Oil 
Company  and  I'm  only  telling  you"  he  added.  "I've  got  nothing 
against  you  but  I  should  have  your  place.  I  .could  do  the  work  at 
odd  moments.  Here  and  there  I  should  run  finding  out  things  you 
will  never  see." 

Becoming  more  excited  Joe  Welling  crowded  the  young  reporter 
against  the  front  of  the  feed  store.  He  appeared  to  be  lost  in 
thought,  rolling  his  eyes  about  and  running  a  thin  nervous  hand 
through  his  hair.  A  smile  spread  over  his  face  and  his  gold  teeth 
glittered.  "You  get  out  your  note  book"  he  commanded.  "You 
carry  a  little  pad  of  paper  in  your  pocket,  don't  you?  I  knew  you 
did.  Well,  you  set  this  down.  I  thought  of  it  the  other  day.  Let's 
take  decay.  Now  what  is  decay?  It's  fire.  It  burns  up  wood  and 
other  things.  You  never  thought  of  that?  Of  course  n6t.  This 
side  walk  here  and  this  feed  store,  the  trees  down  the  street  there — 
they  are  all  on  fire.  They  are  burning  up.  Decay,  you  see,  is  al- 
ways going  on.  It  don't  stop.  Water  and  paint  can't  stop  it.  If 
a  thing  is  iron,  then  what?  It's  rust,  you  see.  That  is  fire  too. 
The  world  is  on  fire.  Start  your  piece  in  the  paper  that  way.  Just 
say  in  big  letters  "THE  WORLD  IS  ON  FIRE".  That  will  make 
them  look  up.  They  will  say  you  are  a  smart  one.  I  don't  care. 
I  don't  envy  you.    I  just  snatched  that  idea  out  of  the  air.    I  would 


The    Little    Review 


25 


make  a  newspaper  hum.    You  got  to  admit  that." 

Turning  quickly  Joe  Welling  walked  rapidly  away.  When  he 
had  taken  several  steps  he  stopped  and  looked  back.  "I'm  going  to 
stick  to  you"  he  said.  "I'm  going  to  make  you  a  regular  hummer. 
I  should  start  a  newspaper  myself,  that's  what  I  should  do.  I  would 
be  a  marvel.    Everybody  knows  that." 

When  George  Willard  had  been  for  a  year  on  the  Winesburg 
Eagle,  four  things  happened  to  Joe  Welling.  His  mother  died,  he 
went  to  live  at  the  New  Willard  House,  he  became  involved  in  a 
love  affair  and  he  organized  the  Winesburg  baseball  club. 

Joe  organized  the  baseball  club  because  he  wanted  to  be  coach 
and  in  that  position  he  began  to  win  the  respect  of  his  townsmen. 
"He  is  a  wonder"  they  declared,  after  Joe's  team  had  whipped  the 
team  from  Medinah  County.  "He  gets  everybody  working  to- 
gether.    You  just  watch  him." 

Upon  the  baseball  field  Joe  Welling  stood  by  first  base,  his 
whole  body  quivering  with  excitement.  In  spite  of  themselves  all 
the  players  watched  him  closely.  The  opposing  pitcher  became 
confused. 

"Now!  Now!  Now!"  shouted  the  excited  man.  "Watch  me! 
Watch  me!  Watch  my  fingers!  Watch  my  hands!  Watch  my 
feet!  Watch  my  eyes!  Let's  work  together  here!  Watch  me!  In 
me  you  see  all  the  movements  of  the  game!"  Work  with  me!  Work 
with  me!     Watch  me!     Watch  me!     Watch  me!" 

With  runners  of  the  Winesburg  team  on  bases  Joe  Welling  be- 
came as  one  inspired.  Before  they  know  what  had  come  over  them 
the  base  runners  were  watching  the  man,  edging  off  the  bases,  ad- 
"vancing,  retreating,  held  as  by  invisible  cords.  The  players  of  the 
opposing  team  also  watched  Joe.  They  were  fascinated.  For  a 
moment  they  watched  and  then,  as  though  trying  to  break  a  spell 
that  hung  over  them,  they  began  hurling  the  ball  wildly  about  and 
amid  a  series  of  fierce  annual  like  cries  from  the  coach  the  runners 
of  the  Winesburg  team  scampered  home. 

Joe  Welling's  love  affair-  set  the  town  of  Winesburg  on  edge. 
When  it  began  everyone  whispered  and  shook  their  heads.  When 
they  tried  to  laugh  the  laughter  was  forced  and  unnatural.  Joe  fell 
in  love  with  Sarah  King,  a  lean  sad  looking  woman  who  lived  with 
her  father  and  brother  in  a  brick  house  that  stood  opposite  the 
gate  leading  to  the  Winesburg  Cemetery. 


26  The    Little    Review 


The  two  Kings,  Edward  the  father,  and  Tom  the  son,  were 
not  popular  in  Winesburg.  They  were  called  proud  and  dangerous. 
They  had  come  to  Winesburg  from  some  place  in  the  south  and 
ran  a  cider  mill  on  the  Trunnion  Pike.  Tom  King  was  reported 
to  have  killed  a  man  before  he  came  to  Winesburg.  He  was  twenty 
seven  years  old  and  rode  about  town  on  a  grey  pony.  Also  he  had 
a  long  yellow  moustache  that  drooped  down  over  his  teeth  and  he  al- 
ways carried  a  heavy,  wicked  looking  walking  stick  in  his  hand. 
Once  he  killed  a  dog  with  the  stick.  The  dog  belonged  to  Win 
Pawsey,  the  shoe  merchant,  and  stood  on  the  sidewalk  wagging  its 
tail.  Tom  King  killed  it  with  one  blow.  He  was  arrested  and  paid 
a  fine  of  ten  dollars. 

Old  Edward  King  was  small  of  stature  and  when  he  passed 
people  in  the  street  laughed  a  queer  unmirthful  laugh.  When  he 
laughed  he  scratched  his  left  elbow  with  his  right  hand.  The 
sleeve  of  his  coat  was  almost  worn  through  from  the  habit.  As  he 
walked  along  the  street,  looking  nervously  about  and  laughing,  he 
seemed  more  dangerous  than  his  silent  fierce-looking  son. 

When  Sarah  King  began  walking  in  the  evening  with  Joe  Well- 
ing people  shook  their  heads  in  alarm.  She  was  tall  and  pale  and 
had  dark  rings  under  her  eyes.  The  couple  looked  ridiculous  to- 
gether. Under  the  trees  they  walked  and  Joe  talked.  His  passion- 
ate eager  protestations  of  love,  heard  coming  out  of  the  darkness  by 
the  cemetery  wall  or  from  the  deep  shadows  of  the  trees  on  the  hill 
that  ran  up  to  the  Fair  Ground  from  Waterworks  pond,  were  re- 
peated in  the  stores.  Men  stood  by  the  bar  in  the  New  Willard 
House  laughing  and  talking  of  Joe's  courtship.  After  the  laughter 
came  silence.  The  Winesburg  baseball  team,  under  his  manage- 
ment, was  winning  game  after  game  and  the  town  had  begun  to 
respect  him.    Sensing  a  tragedy  they  waited,  laughing  nervously. 

Late  on  a  Saturday  afternoon  the  meeting  between  Joe  Well- 
ing and  the  two  Kings,  the  anticipation  of  which  had  set  the  town 
on  edge,  took  place  in  Joe  Welling's  room  in  the  New  Willard  House. 
George  Willard  was  a  witness  to  the  meeting.  It  came  about  in  this 
way. 

When  the  young  reporter  went  to  his  room  after  the  evening 
meal  he  saw  Tom  King  and  his  father  sitting  in  the  half  darkness 
in  Joe's  room.  The  son  had  the  heavy  walking  stick  in  his  hand  and 
sat  near   the   door.     Old   Edward    King  walked   nervously  about. 


The    Little    Review  .27 

scratching  his  left  elbow  with  his  right  hand.  The  hallways  were 
empty  and  silent. 

George  Willard  went  to  his  own  room  and  sat  down  at  his  desk. 
He  began  trying  to  write,  but  his  hand  trembled  so  that  he  could 
not  hold  the  pen.  He  also  walked  nervously  up  and  down.  Like 
the  rest  of  the  town  of  Winesburg  he  was  perplexed  and  knew 
not  what  to  do. 

It  was  seven  thirty  and  fast  growing  dark  when  Joe  Welling 
came  along  the  depot  platform  toward  the  New  Willard  House.  In 
his  arms  he  held  a  bundle  of  weeds  and  grasses.  In  spite  of  the  ter- 
ror that  made  his  body  shake  George  Willard  was  amused  at  the 
sight  of  the  small  spry  figure  holding  the  grasses  and  half-running 
along  the  platform. 

Shaking  with  fright  and  anxiety  the  young  reporter  lurked  in 
the  hallway  outside  the  door  of  the  room  in  which  Joe  Welling 
talked  to  the  two  Kings.  There  had  been  an  oath,  the  nervous 
giggle  of  old  Edward  King  and  then  silence.  Now  the  voice  of 
Joe  Welling,  sharp  and  clear,  broke  forth.  George  Willard  began 
to  laugh.  He  understood.  As  he  had  swept  all  men  before  him,  so 
now  Joe  Welling  was  carrying  the  two  men  in  the  room  off  their 
feet  with  a  tidal  wave  of  words.  The  listener  in  the  hall  walked  up 
and  down  lost  in  amazement. 

Inside  the  room  Joe  Welling  had  paid  no  attention  to  the 
grumbled  threat  of  Tom  King.  Absorbed  in  an  idea  he  closed  the 
door  and,  lighting  a  lamp,  spread  the  handful  of  weeds  and  grasses 
upon  the  floor.  "I've  got  something  here"  he  announced  solemnly. 
"I  was  going  to  tell  George  Willard  about  it,  let  him  make  a  piece 
out  of  it  for  the  paper.  I  am  glad  you  are  here.  I  wish  Sarah  were 
here  also.  I  been  going  to  come  to  your  house  and  tell  you  of  some 
of  my  ideas.  They  are  interesting.  Sarah  wouldn't  fet  me.  She 
said  we  would  quarrel.    That's  Toolish." 

Running  up  and  down  before  the  two  perplexed  men  Joe  Well- 
ing began  to  explain.  "Don't  you  make  a  mistake  now,"  he  cried. 
"This  is  something  big."  His  voice  was  shrill  with  excitement. 
"You  just  follow  me.  You  will  be  interested.  I  know  you  will. 
Suppose  this,  suppose  all  of  the  wheat,  the  corn,  the  oats,  the  peas, 
the  potatoes  were  all  by  some  miracle  swept  away.  Now  here  we 
are,  you  see,  in  this  country.  Theie  is  a  high  fence  built  all  around 
us.    We'll  suppose  that.    No  one  can  get  over  the  fence  and  all  the 


28  T  he    Little    Review 


fruits  of  the  earth  are  destroyed,  nothing  left  but  these  wild  things, 
these  grasses.  Would  we  be  done  for?  I  ask  you  that.  Would  we 
be  done  for?" 

Again  Tom  King  Growled  and  for  a  moment  there  was  silence 
in  the  room.  Then  again  Joe  plunged  into  the  exposition  of  his 
idea.  "Things  would  go  hard  for  a  time.  I  admit  that.  I've  got 
to  admit  that.  No  getting  around  it.  We  would  be  hard  put  to  it. 
More  than  one  fat  stomach  would  cave  in.  But  they  couldn\ 
down  us?    I  should  say  not." 

Tom  King  laughed  good-naturedly  and  the  shivery  nervous 
laugh  of  Edward  King  rang  through  the  house.  Joe  ^Veiling  hurried 
on.  "We  would  begin,  do  you  see,  to  breed  up  new  vegetables  and 
fruits .  Soon  we  would  regain  all  we  had  lost.  Mind  I  don't  say  the 
new  things  would  be  the  same  as  the  old.  They  wouldn't.  Maybe 
they  would  be  better,  maybe  not  so  good.  That's  interesting,  eh? 
You  can  think  about  that.  It  starts  your  mind  working,  now  don't 
it?"      , 

In  the  room  there  was  silence  and  then  again  old  Edward  King 
laughed  nervously.  "Say,  I  wish  Sarah  was  here"  cried  Joe  Welling 
"Let's  go  to  your  house.    I  want  to  tell  her  of  this." 

There  was  a  scraping  of  chairs  in  the  room.  It  was  ther 
George  Willard  retreated  to  his  own  room.  Leaning  out  at  the  win- 
dow he  saw  Joe  Welling  going  along  the  street  with  the  two  Kings 
Tom  King  was  forced  to  take  extraordinary  long  strides  to  keep 
pace  with  the  little  man.  As  he  strode  along  he  leaned  over  listen- 
ing, absorbed,  fascinated.  Joe  Welling  again  talked  excitedly 
"Take  milk-weed  now"  he  cried.  "A  lot  might  be  done  with  milk 
weed,  eh?  It's  almost  unbelievable.  I  want  you  to  think  about  it 
I  want  you  two  men  to  think  about  it.  There  would  be  a  new  vege 
table  kingdom  you  see.  It's  interesting  eh?  It's  an  idea.  Wait  til 
we  get  Sarah.  She'll  get  the  idea.  She^l  be  interested.  Sarah 
always  interested  in  ideas.  You  can't  be  too  smart  for  Sarah,  nov 
can  you?    Of  course  you  can't.    You  know  that." 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  29 


FINALE 

Djuna    Barnes 

[N  THE  centre  of  the  room  lay  the  corpse. 
The  proper  number  of  candles  burned  at  head  and  feet. 

The  body  had  been  duly  attended  to.  The  undertaker  had 
mred  the  nails,  put  the  tongue  back  in  the  mouth,  shut  the  eyes,  and 
vith  a  cloth  dusted  with  bismuth  had  touched  the  edges  of  the 
lostrils. 

It  had  been  washed  and  dressed  and  made  to  assume  the  con- 
entional  death  pose — the  hands  crossed  palm  over  knuckles.  Every- 
hing  else  in  the  room  seemed  willing  to  go  on  changing— being, 
ie  alone  remained  cold  and  unwilling,  like  a  stoppage  in  the  at- 
nosphere. 

His  wife,  his  mother  ,  and  his  children  knelt  about  him.  His 
vife  cried  heavily,  resting  the  middle  of  her  breasts  on  the  hard  side 
f  the  coffin  boards.  His  mother  wept  also,  but  with  that  comfort 
)f  one  who  has  seen  both  the  beginning  and  the  end;  with  that 
ouch  of  restfulness  that  comes  to  those  who  like  the  round,  the 
omplete,  the  final. 

His  children  knelt  and  did  not  weep.  The  little  girl's  closed 
)alms  were  damp,  and  she  wanted  to  look  at  them  but  dared  not. 
The  boy  had  that  very  morning  dsicovered  the  pleasure  of  rubbing 
lis  head  under  his  nurse's  arm  when  she  said  "Come,  put  your  shirt 
>n,"  and  he  wanted  to  smile  about  this,  but  his  eyes  refused  to  grow 
lamp,  he  could  not  permit  himself  the  satisfaction. 

On  the  floor,  in  a  corner  ,  lay  what  had  been  the  dead  man's 
learest  possession — a  bright  blue  scarf  embroidered  with  s;  ots  of 
;old.  It  had  been  given  to  him  when  passing  through  Italy,  by  a 
ong  legged  Sicilian  whom  he  had  loved  as  one  loves  who  must  catch 
I  train. 

It  was  a  lovely  thing,  but  much  treasuring  had  lined  it;  and 
he  marks  of  his  thumbs  as  they  passed  over  it  in  pleasant  satisfac- 
ion  had  left  their  tarnish  on  the  little  spots  of  gold. 

The  shadows  grew  and  darkness  fell.  The  room  was  silent  save 
or  that  melancholy  murmur  of  lips  that  taste  tears. 

A  large  rat  put  his  head  out  of  a  hole,  long  dusty,  and  peered 
nto  the  room. 


30 


The    Little    Review 


The  children  were  going  to  rise  and  go  to  bed  soon.  The  bod- 
ies of  the  mourners  had  that  half-sorrowful,  half-bored  look  of 
people  who  do  something  that  hurts  too  long. 

Presently  the  rat  took  hold  of  the  scarf  and  trotted  away  with 
it  into  the  darkness  of  the  beyond. 

One  thing  only  had  the  undertaker  forgotten  to  do  ;  he  had 
failed  to  remove  the  cotton  from  the  ears  of  the  dead  man,  who  had 
suffered  from  ear-ache. 


SONNET   FROM   "LE    PARNASSE 
SATYRIQUE,"    1622 

(Attributed    to    TheoPJiile    de    Viau) 

S.    Foster    Damon 

I  dreamed  that  Phillis,  wandering  from  her  shroud, 
Yet  lovely  as  she  had  been  in  the  light, 
Wished  that  her  shade  might  still  bring  me  delight. 
That,  like  Ixion,  I  might  embrace  a  cloud. 

Her  shadow  slid  to  me,  naked  and  proud. 
And  said:  "Dear  love,  again  I  come  by  night; 
For  in  the  grave  I  grew  more  fair  and  white, 
In  that  place  to  which  all  Loveliness  is  vowed. 

I  come  to  kiss  again  Him  of  most  grace, 

I  come  to  die  again  in  your  embrace." 

Then,  when  our  passions  had  attained  their  goal, 

She  said:  "Farewell!     I  go  back  to  the  dead. 
As  you  once  held  my  body  in  your  bed, 
Now  you  may  boast  of  having  held  my  soul." 


T  Ji  e     L  i  t  t  I  c     R  e  V  i  e  w  31 

FOLK   SONG   ECHOES 

Esther    Kohen 

"  A  n  g  i  0  r  a  " 

I  HAVE  strength  in  my  limbs — watch  my  hands  how  quick  they 
go.    I  fold  wrappers  on  tins  of  pig  meat  all  day. 

I  put  my  feet  out  with  grace.  They  do  not  fit  the  shoe. 
Wherefore  I  am  ashamed  of  my  peasant  feet?  But  I  stand  grace- 
fully, both  feet  down  flat,  strong  to  the  earth  as  if  crushing  the  grape. 
My  body  is  big  at  the  hip,  but  it  moves  like  the  twig,  forward,  back- 
ward, I  dance  when  I  am  quiet.  My  blood  sways.  I  am  a  single 
flower  blown  free  in  the  grass. 

My  grandpapa  was  a  thick  tree  of  a  Ruman.  His  legs  jumped 
to  the  ceiling  when  he  danced  .  Yeaa!  Traaja!  A  big  limb  of  a 
Ruman.  My  grandmother's  girdle  was  never  quiet  at  the  dance. 
Her  shirt  opened  on  a  pale  bosom.  The  color  of  fresh  goats  milk 
was  her  skin.  Traaja!  How  they  danced!  The  dust  opened 
mouths  at  the  air  on  the  square  where  their  feet  slapped  the  earth. 

The  Tzigane  played.  The  gospodar  brought  many  jugs  of  wine. 
My  Grandpapa  Silu  caught  at  the  girdle  of  Mariora,  my  grandmama, 
and  he  twirled  her  to  him  when  the  dance  ring  broke  up.  A  flacu — 
a  fresh  guy — ^was  my  grandfather.  So  they  married.  My  mother 
Angelina  was  their  daughter.    So  I  came  to  be. 

I  am  in  the  labelling  department  of  Armour's  packing  house.  I 
work  quick— my  hands  make  a  go  like  the  black  plague  eating  the 
wheat.  Four  hundred  cans  an  hour  I  pack.  I  smear  on  white  flour 
paste  with  my  brush.  I  make  a  gypsy  trick  with  my  hand — and  air 
again.    The  can  is  packed,  the  side  opener  hooked  on. 

Gabriel  the  fat  butcher  in  the  hext  department  wants  me  to  wife 
with  him.  I  tell  him  T  want  no  pig  maker .  no  sheep  cutter  for  my 
man.  I  tell  him  behind  my  eve  is  a  smart  fellow  with  a  pin  in  his 
tie.    But  T  shall  be  wife  with  Gabriel. 

Angiora ,  the  Laughter  Girl ,  they  call  me.     My  dimples  are 


32  The    Little    Rev  uew 

caught  with  little  apple  seeds.    But  I  am  sad  when  the  maize  is  high, 
for  I  know  four  reaping  songs  I  do  not  sing. 

Four  hundred  cans  an  hour  I  pack.  My  grandfather  was  a  big 
limb  of  a  Ruman.  My  grandmother's  girdle  was  never  quiet  at  a 
dance, 

THE   WRITER   AND    HIS   JOB 

Israel    Solon 

I  AM  a  writer.  I  have  written  criticisms,  short  plays,  and  short 
stories.  My  stories  have  been  pretty  generally  rejected  by 
the  editors.     Why? 

I  shall  give  the  reasons  of  two  editors,  and  I  shall  follow  these 
with  my  refutations.  I  shall  resist  the  temptation  to  say  something 
about  the  needlessly  malicious  rejection  slips  from  the  editors  of 
the  Smart  Set.  But,  first  of  all  I  had  better,  I  think,  say  what  I 
am  not. 

I  am  not  "another   O.  Henry." 

O.  Henry  was  the  Gypsy  fortune  teller  in  this  show-man's  en- 
terprise known  as  the  American  magazine  publishing  game.  And 
because  American  life  is  at  once  both  rich  in  promise  and  destitute 
in  fulfillments,  and  because  O.  Henry  brought  an  exceptional  ability 
to  his  disreputable  practise,  the  defrauded  crowded  his  tent,  finding 
in  his  fiction  what  had  been  denied  them  in  fact;  and  they  believed 
him  oracular  and  called  him  the  king  of  the  writers. 

The  story  I  had  submitted  to  him,  one  editor  said  recently,  was 
we'll  written.  Not  many  stories  were  so  well  written.  But.  It  was 
too  neutral  in  tone.  I  had  not  made  the  distinctions  between  hero 
and  villain  sharp  enough,  he  went  on  to  explain,  with  the  result  that 
the  victory  of  the  good  was  not  decisive  enough,  and  the  defeat  of 
the  evil  not  sufficiently  crushing  and  final. 

Aside  from  his  failing  to  understand  my  work  and  my  inten- 
tions, I  find  myself  compelled  to  insist  that  his  ideals  are  wrong- 
headed,  and  his  understanding  of  life  false. 

Life  is  always  and  everywhere  inconclusive.  Nothing  in  life 
is  ever  decided  finally — right  or  wrong.  Everything  in  life  runs  out 
beyond  the  horizon,  and  everything  intertwines  with  everything  else. 


Stanislaw  Szukalski 


\'%J£ 


:^y^-^ 


Angel  of  Rebellion 


Man  Following  his  Principles 


r?w(^3»»opa^i<..'.w»  W<l^x,'»'  ^MU^wm;  (iivj 


>'i''*?»*BP»*fr^(«!HM 


i/en  Go/»^  ^0  Church 


A  Different  Jew 


1  Jifi.JyT 


Man  and  /lis  Conscience 


-Z'^ 


"^^-J^^h 


^h 


'5^ 


^4, 


'Medusa" 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  33 


Were  I  to  attempt  to  pull  up  an  evil  by  the  roots,  I  should  expect  to 
find  myself  trying  to  pull  up  all  of  life;  should  I  attempt  to  follow 
a  good  to  the  end,  I  should  as  surely  find  myself  following  all  of  life. 
All  distinctions,  demarcations  and  articulations  are  conventional 
and  arbitrary  and  ephemeral.  Which  is  the  good  and  which  the  evil? 
Which  the  victor  and  which  the  victim?  To  answer  these  is  no 
part  of  the  writer's  job.  It  is  no  part  of  my  job.  My  job  is  where 
my  interest  lies — ^in  the  confluence  df  all  life.  An  illustration  will 
help  to  make  my  meaning  clear. 

The  reader  will  recall  that,  some  time  back,  a  Western  sur- 
geon condemned  a  certain  child  to  death,  because,  in  the  opinion  of 
this  surgeon,  the  child's  eventual  career  harbored  a  social  menace. 

Seen  from  the  artist's  outlook  upon  life,  this  surgeon's  conduct 
was  reprehensible.  Had  a  mob  of  his  fellow  citizens  gathered  out- 
side this  surgeon's  window,  clamoring  that  he  let  the  child  die,  his 
reply  should  have  been: 

Ladies  and  gentlemen!  I  am  neither  judge,  jury,  nor  execu-- 
tioner.  The  social  consequences  of  this  child's  subsequent  behavior 
lie  outside  the  narrow  field  of  my  limited  activities.  I  am  a  surgeon. 
This  child's  case  is  surgical.  I  shall  treat  it  to  the  best  of  my  abil- 
ity.   Good  day! 

"Consider  The  Saturday  Evening  Post,"  the  other  editor  wrote 
me.  "You  may  say  what  you  like  about  the  ideas  which  are  accep- 
table to  the  millions,  or  the  ideas  which  the  editors  think  are  ac- 
ceptable to  the  millions.  It  is  you  who  know  and  they  who  are  ig- 
norant. But  where  art  is  concerned  the  millions  speak  with  au- 
thority      The  millions  make  only  one  demand  of  the  artist  and 

that  is  impact,  force,  gusto.  And  in  doing  so  they  make  the  primary, 
the  fundamental,  the  essential  demand.  AVhen  you  stop  to  think  of 
it  you  know  they  are  right." 

This  is  the  religion  of  democracy,  somewhat  rhapsodically 
stated;  and  we  of  the  Occident  are  of  course  committed  to  demo- 
cracy, today  more  so  than  ever  before.  But  we  are  under  no  com- 
pulsion to  agree  that  "where  art  is  concerned  the  millions  speak 
with  authority."  The  simple  truth  is  that  where  art  is  concerned  the 
juillions  do  not  speak  at  all — unless  it  is  to  jeer  at  the  artist,  or  to 
cry  that  he  be  jailed  for  failing  to  conform  to  some  social  fiction. 

"The  millions  make  only  one  demand  of  the  artist  and  that 


34  The    Little     Review 

is  impact,  force,  gusto."  That  is  to  say,  the  millions  demand  only 
''punch."  That  is  certainly  true,  and  that  is  precisely  it,  for  that 
is  all  they  do  demand.  But  the  meagerness  of  their  demands  is 
their  besetting  sin.  It  is  not  their  virtue.  Why  do  the  millions  de- 
mand so  little! 

Let  no  one  misunderstand  me.  I  am  not  here  finding  fault 
with  'the  stories  now  being  published.  I  speak  for  the  stories  now 
being  rejected.  I  deny  equally  Ezra  Pound's  insistence  on  literacy 
and  Bernard  Shaw's  cry  for  journalism.  I  do  not  say  that  all  writers 
should  know  the  classics;  I  do  not  ask  that  all  stories  should  be 
literature.  All  I  ask  is  that  our  editors  should  not  insist  on  all 
stories  being  journalism.  For,  aside  from  all  other  objections,  there 
is  still  this  to  be  said  against  journalism:  journalism  exaggerates 
the  significance  of  current  events;  journalism  attributes  fantastic 
consequences  to  our  behavior.  Our  worst  possible  conduct  is  not 
nearly  so  different  from  our  best  possible  conduct  as  our  journalism 
would  lead  us  to  believe.  The  belief  that  we  should  all  turn  perfect 
devils  but  for  the  Thou  shalt  nots  of  our  own  making  is  sheer  gross, ' 
preposterous  flattery  of  ourselves.  Were  all  our  prohibitions  wiped 
out  tomorrow  the  practical  difference  of  our  behavior  would  not  be 
noticible  a  month  hence.  Nor  do  I  speak  in  the  name  of  Truth.  The 
craving  for  truth  is  a  sign  of  intellectual  poverty  or  parsimony;  at 
best  it  is  a  desire  for  social  efficiency  and  in  all  cases  it  signifies  a 
shrinking  from  having  to  make  living  adjustments  to  a  living  envir- 
onment. I  ask  for  nothing  radical  at  all.  1  do  not  hold  forth  against 
giving  the  millions  what  they  want.  I  speak  for  the  numerous  inter- 
mediate reading  publics.  All  I  ask  is  that  while  the  millions  are 
being  so  plentifully  served  that  the  thousands  be  not  neglected. 

Indeed,  the  millions  are  being  too  plentifully  served.  They 
have  long  since  passed  the  point  of  saturation.  The  number  of  our 
magazines  being  published  at  a  loss  in  giving  the  millions  what 
they  want  is  the  best  proof  of  this. 

Do  I  mean  that  our  editors  do  not  know  their  business?  Yes, 
far  too  many  of  them.  Far  too  many  of  our  editors  are  either  lame 
imitators  of  Henry  James,  or  terribly  capable  fabricators  of  pep- 
punch-and-push  advertising  copy,  either  disappointed  novelists  or 
successful  advertising  men.  In  either  case  they  are  incapable  of  ap- 
preciating American  intellectual  life  without  prejudice. 

Think  of  it:   there  is  not  a  single  magazine  in  this  country 


The    Little    Review  35 


making  any  consistent  effort  to  reach  the  thousands  who  read  the 
translations!  Our  editors  do  not  even  know  that  America  is  not  one 
but  many.  They  are  not  even  aware  that  America  today  is  the  one 
country  without  a  literary  tradition. 

Let  no  one  think  that  my  being  an  interested  person  detracts 
from  the  validity  of  my  arguments.  It  does  not.  Nothing  is  ever 
true  or  false,  nothing  has  any  existence  at  all,  except  to  interested 
persons.  The  Ding  am  sich  is  without  a  reputable  defender  this 
side  of  the  grave. 


CAPRICCIOS 

^Alfred    Kremborg 
Middle    Age 

She, 

like  an  old-time  street  organ- 

which  has  lost  its  half  tones, 

or  never  had  any, 

is  frantically  running  the  diatonic — 

whether  to  find  those  tones 

or  save  the  loss  of  these  she  has 

is  not  for  me  to  know. 

The  one  for  whom  she  plays 
is  an  accordion 

whose  one  everlasting  tonality 
lies  in  a  foreign  key. 

Bers,     Borg     and     Bur 

Berg,  Borg  and  Burg — 
Berg,  Borg  and  Burg — 
good  Lord,  who  are  they? — 
Germans,  Dutch,  Swedes? 
Americans! 


36  The    Little    Review 


^What's  this  land  of  ours  come  to? 

Where's  it  going  next? 

To  Japs,  Chinese,  Hindoos? 

Americans! 

What  are  they? — 

keepers  of  shops, 

shops  on  Avenue  A, 

delicatessen,  grocery,  saloon, 

bakery,  pawn — are  they  street  venders? 

Nay! 

Detectives,  spies,  bomb  throwers,  radicals, 

thieves,  gang  leaders,  second-story  men — 

Nay! 

Berg,  Borg,  and  Burg — 

partners,  eh? 

Partners! 

Partners  in  misdemeanor? 

And  worse! 

Ah — I'll  catch  them — 

what's  their  misdojng, 

they're  a  corporation, 

they  wear  gold  chains, 

they're  Wall  Streeters, 

they  rob  the  needy, 

they're  in  the  top  of  the  Singer  Tower? 

Berg  lives  in  Boston, 

Borg  in  New  York, 

Burg  in  diicflgo. 

And  they're  partners? 

Pals! 

Cronies? 

And  worse! 

Lord,  what  do  they  do? 

They  perpetrate — 

Perpetrate? 

Propagate? 

Propagate 

Verse! 

Berg,  Borg  and  Burg? 


The    Little    Review  37 


Nay! 

Not  Berg,  Borg  and  Burg? 

Nay! 

Who  then,  who  then? 

Arensberg,  Kreymborg,  Sandburg! 

Oh!! 

32°    Fahrenheit 

To  the  really  humble 

progenitor  of  Doctor  Jurisprudence, 

or  even  the  mere  ch|aste  student 

of  his  miraculous  common  denominator, 

a  glimpse  of  the 

domestic  discipline  imposed 

with  such  benign  artistry 

by  her  ladyship, 

the  Unapproachable  Irreproachable, 

will  afford  proof 

without  cost  of  emotion 

of  the  favorite  aphorism, 

that  the  perfecting  of  the  microcosm 

is  a  closer  adumbration  of  the 

Medico's  sacred  behest  as  to  ethical  procedure 

than  the  quixotic  out-of-doors 

pursuit  of  the  macrocosm; 

an  added  glimpse  of  the 

breakfast  repast  demeanor 

of  his  lordship, 

the  Subdued  Abducted, 

with  a  particular  notation 

of  how  his  once  hot  glances 

have  become  icicles  of  buttermilk, 

should  crystallize  wisdom, 

or  chastity,  as  it  happens, 

and  therewith  leave  the  heart  frozen 

against  further  palpitation. 


38  The    Little    Review 


POEMS 

Max    Michelson 

A    Woman     Tramp 

Life  had  thrown  her  food. 

On  her  rounded  cheeks 

Ghosts  of  memories  are  playing  restrainedly. 

As  she  slowly  munches  her  bread  on  the  doorstep 
Her  round  eyes 

Under  her  gently-beetling  forehead,  become  wet 
And  protude  like  an  overfull  inkstand, 

Her  soul  wanders  off  somewhere,  browsing  .... 

Dans     L'Eau 

The  gleaming  water  wriggles  and  undulates 
About  your  gleaming  undulating  body , 
About  your  shining  nails  and  dully-glowing  hair 
And  about  your  eyes,  the  lamp-flames 
Of  your  body 

but  not  of  any  soul . 
The  water  is 

your  gleaming  undulating  body , 
Your  body  is , 

Your  shining  nails  and  dully-glowing  hair , 
Your  nails  and  your  hair  are  your  eyes ,  the  lamp-flames 
Of  your. body 

but  not  of  any  soul . 
The  water  is  your  nails  and  your  hair , 
The  water  is  your  eyes ,    the  lamp-flames 
Of  your  body 

but  not  of  any  soul . 


The    Little    Review  39 


ULYSSES 

James   Joyce 

Episode    IV 

MR.  LEOPOLD  BLOOM  ate  with  relish  the  inner  organs  of  beasts 
and  fowls.  He  liked  ithick  giblet  soup,  nutty  gizzards,  a  stuffed 
roast  heart,  liver-slices  fried  with  crust-crumbs,  fried  cods'  roes. 
Most  of  all  he  liked  grilled  mutton  kidneys  which  gave  to  his  palate 
a  fine  tang  of  faintly  scented  urine. 

Kidneys  were  in  his  mind  as  he  moved  about  the  kitchen  softly, 
righting  her  breakfast  things  on  the  humpy  tray.  Gelid  light  and  air 
were  in  the  kitchen  but  out  of  doors  gentle  summer  morning  every- 
where.   Made  him  feel  a  bit  peckish. 

The  coals  were  reddening. 

Another  slice  of  bread  and  butter:  three,  four:  right.  She 
didn't  like  her  plate  full.  Right .  He  turned  from  the  tray,  lifted  the 
kettle  off  the  hob  and  set  it  sideways  on  the  fire.  It  sat  there,  dull 
and  squat,  its  spout  stuck  out . 

The  cat  walked  stiffly  round  a  leg  of  the  table  with  tail  on  high. 

Mkgnao! 

— O,  there  you  are,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  turning  from  the  fire. 

The  cat  mewed  in  answer  and  stalked  again  stiffly  round  a  leg 
of  the  table,  mewing. 

Mr.  Bloom  watched  curiously,  kindly  the  lithe  black  form. 
Clean  to  see:  the  gloss  of  her  sleek  hide,  the  white  button  under 
the  butt  of  her  tail,  the  green  flashing  eyes.  He  bent  down  to  her, 
his  hands  on  his  knees. 

— Milk  for  the  pussens  ,   he  said. 

— -Mrkgnao!   the  cat  cried. 

They  call  them  stupid.  They  understand  what  we  say  better 
than   we   understand   them.      She   understands   all   she   wants    to. 

— Afraid  of  the  chickens  she  is,  he  said  mockingly.  Afraid 
of  the  chookchooks.  I  never  saw  such  a  stupid  pussens  as  the 
pussens. 

— Mrkgnao!     The  cat  said  loudly. 

She   blinked   up    out   of   her   avid    eyes,   mewing   plaintively 


40  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

and  long,  showing  him  her  milkwhite  teeth.  He  watched  the 
dark  eyeslits  narrowing  with  greed  till  her  eyes  were  green  stones. 
Then  he  went  to  the  dresser,  poured  milk 'on  a  saucer  and  set  it  for 
her  slowly  on  the  floor. 

— Gurrhr!  she  cried,  running  to  lap. 

He  watched  the  bristles  shining  wirily  in  the  weak  light. 
Wonder  is  it  true  if  you  clip  them  they  can't  mouse  after.  Why? 
They  shine  in  the  dark  perhaps,  the  tips.  Or  kind  of  feelers 
in  the  dark,  perhaps. 

He  listened  to  her  licking  lap.  Thursday:  good  day  for  a 
mutton  kidney  at  Buckley's.  Fried  with  butter,  a  shake  of  pepper. 
Or  better  a  pork  kidney  at  Dlugacz's.  While  the  kettle  is  boiling.  She 
lapped  slower,  then  licking  the  saucer  clean.  Why  are  their  tongues 
so  rough?  To  lap  better ,  all  porous  holes.  Nothing  she  can  eat? 
He  glanced  round  him.     No, 

He  went  up  the  staircase  to  the  hall,  paused  by  the  bedroom 
door.  She  might  like  something  tasty.  Thin  bread  and  butter 
she  likes  in  the  morning.     Still  perhaps:  once  in  a  way. 

He  said  softly  in  the  bare  hall  : 

— I  am  going  round  the  corner.     Be  back  in  a  minute. 

And  when  he  had  heard  his  voice  say  it  he  added: 

— You  don't  want  anything  for  breakfast? 

A  sleepy  soft  grunt  answered: 

— Mn. 

No.  She  did  not  want  anything.  He  heard  then  a  warm 
heavy  sigh,  softer,  as  she  turned  over  and  the  loose  brass  quoits 
of  the  bedstead  jingled.  Must  get  those  settled  really.  Pity. 
All  the  way  from  Gibraltr.  Wonder  what  her  father  gave  for  it. 
Old  style.  Ah  yes,  of  course.  Bought  it  at  the  governor's  auction. 
Got  a  short  knock.  Hard  as  nails  at  a  bargain,  old  Tweedy. 
Yes ,  sir.  At  Plevna  that  was.  I  rose  from  the  ranks,  sir,  and  I'm 
proud  of  it.  Still  he  had  brains  enough  to  make  that  corner  in 
stamps.    Now  that  was  farseeing  . 

His  hand  took  his  hat  from  the  peg.  Stamps:  stickyback 
pictures.  Daresay  lots  of  officers  are  in  the  swim  too.  Course 
they  do.  The  sweated  legend  in  the  crown  of  his  hat  told  him 
mutely:  Plasto's  high  grade  ha.  He  peered  quickly  inside  the 
leather  headband.     White  slip  of  paper.     Quite  safe. 

On  the  doorstep  he  felt  in  his  hip  pocket  for  the  latchkey. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  41 

Not  there.  In  the  trousers  I  left  off.  Creaky  wardrobe.  No 
use  disturbing  her.  She  turned  over  sleepily  that  time.  He 
pulled  the  halldoor  to  after  him  very  quietly,  more,  till  the  foot- 
leaf  dropped  gently  over  the  threshold,  a  limp  lid.  Looked  Shut. 
All  right  till  I  come  back  anyhow. 

He  crossed  to  the  brgiht  side .  The  sun  was  nearing  the 
steeple  of  George's  church.  Be  a  warm  day  I  fancy.  Specially 
in  these  black  clothes  feel  it  more.  Black  conducts,  reflects,  (re- 
fracts is  it?)  the  heat.  His  eyelids  sank  quietly  often  as  he 
walked  in  happy  warmth.  Makes  you  feel  young.  Somewhere 
in  the  east:  early  morning:  set  off  at  dawn.  Walk  along  a  strand, 
strange  land,  come  to  a  city  gate,  sentry  there,  old  ranker  too,  old 
Tweedy's  big  moustaches,  leaning  on  a  long  kind  of  spear.  Wander 
through  awned  streets .  Turbaned  faces  going  by.  Dark  caves 
of  carpet  shops,  big  man,  Turk,  seated  crosslegged  smoking  a  coiled 
pipe.  Cries  of  sellers  in  the  streets.  Drink  water  scented  with  fen- 
nel, sherbet.  Wander  along  all  day.  Getting  on  to  sundown.  The 
shadows  of  the  mosques  among  the  pillars:  priest  with  a  scroll  rolled 
up.  A  shiver  of  the  trees,  signal,  the  evening  wind.  I  pass  on. 
Fading  gold  sky.  A  mother  watches  me  from  her  doorway.  She 
calls  her  children  home  in  their  dark  language.  High  wall:  beyond 
strings  twanged.  Night  sky,  moon,  violet,  colour  of  Molly's  new 
garters.  Strings.  Listen.  A  girl  playing  one  of  those  instruments 
what  do  you  call  them:  dulcimers.    I  pass. 

Probably  not  a  bit  like  it  really.  Kind  of  stuff  you  read:  in 
the  track  of  ihe  sun.  Sunburst  on  the  titlepage.  He  smiled, 
pleasing  himself.  What  Arthur  Griffith  said  about  the  head- 
piece over  the  Freeman  leader:  a  homerule  sun  rising  up  in  the 
nortWest  from  the  laneway  behind  the  bank  of  Ireland.  He 
prolonged  his  pleased  smile.  Ikey  touch  that:  homerule  sun  rising 
up  in  the  northwest. 

He  approached  Larry  O'Rourke's.  From  the  cellar  grating 
floated  up  the  flabby  gush  of  porter.  Through  the  open  doorway 
the  bar  squirted  out  whiffs  of  ginger,  teadust,  biscuitmush.  Good 
house  however:  just  the  end  of  the  city  traffic.  For  instance 
M'AuIey's  down  there.:  n.  g.  as  position  .  Of  course  if  they  ran  a 
firinl'ne  along-  the  North  Circular  from  the  cattle  market  to 
the  quays  value  would  go  up  like  a  shot. 

Baldhead  over   the  blind.     Cute  old   dodger.     No  use  can- 


42  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

vassing  him  for  an  order  ad.  Still  lie  knew  his  own  business 
best.  There  he  is,  sure  enough,  my  bold  arry,  leaning  against 
the  sugarbin  in  his  shirtsleeves  watching  the  aproned  curate  swab 
up  with  mop  and  bucket.  Simon  Dedalus  takes  him  off  to  a  tea, 
with  his  eyes  screwed  up.  Do  you  know  what  I'm  going  to  tell  you? 
What's  that,  Mr.  O'Rourke?  Do  you  know  what:  the  Russians, 
they  are  only  an  eight  o'clock  breakfast  for  the  Japanese. 

Stop  and  say  a  word:  about  the  funeral  perhaps.  -Sad  thing 
about  poor  Dignam,  Mr.  O'Rourke. 

Turning  into  Dorset  street  he  said  freshly  in  greeting  through 
the  doorway: 

—Good  day,  Mr.  O'Rourke. 

— Good  day  to  you. 

— Lovely  weather,  sir. 

— 'Tis  all  that. 

Where  do  they  get  the  money?  Coming  up  redheaded  curates 
from  the  country  eitrim,  rinsing  empties  in  the  cellar.  Then,  lo 
and  behold,  they  blossom  out  as  publicans.  Save  it  they  can't. 
Off  the  drunks  perhaps.  What  is  that  A  bob  here  and  there,  dribs 
and  drabs.  On  the  wholesale  orders  perhaps.  Doing  a  double  shuf- 
fle with  the  town  travellers.  Square  it  with  the  boss  and  we'll  split 
the  job,  see? 

How  much  would  that  tot  to  off  the  porter  in  the  month? 
Say  ten  barrels  of  stuff.  Say  he  got  ten  per  cent  off.  Or  more. 
Fifteen. 

He  .halted  before  Dlugacz's  window,  staring  at  the  hanks  of 
sausages,  polonies,  black  and  white.  Fifteen  multiplied  by.  The 
figures  whitened  in  his  mind  unsolved:  displeased,  he  let  them 
fade.  The  shiny  link  packed  with  forcemeat,  fed  his  gaze  and  Me 
breathed  in  tranquilly  the  lukewarm  breath  of  cooked  spicy  pig's 
blood  . 

A  kidney  oozed  bloodgouts  on  the  willow-patterned  dish: 
the  last.  He  stood  near  the  nextdoor  girl  at  the  counter.  Would 
she  buy  it  too,  calling  the  items  from  a  slip  in  her  hand?  Chapped: 
washing  soda.  And  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sausages.  His  eyes 
rested  on  her  vigorous  hips.  Strong  pair  of  arms.  Whacking  a 
carpet  on  the  clothesline.  She  does  whack  it,  by  George.  The 
way  her  crooked  skirt  swings  at  each  whack. 

The  ferreteyed  porkbutcher  folded  the  sausage  he  had  snip- 
ped off  with  blotchy  fingers,  sausagepink. 


The    Little   Review  43 


Sound  meat  there:  like  a  stallfed  heifer.  He  took  a  page  up 
from  the  pile  of  cut  sheets:  the  model  farm  at  Kinnereth  on  the 
lakeshore  of  Tiberias.  I  thought  he  was.  Farmhouse,  wall  round 
it,  blurred  cattle  cropping.  He  held  the  page  from  him:  interesting: 
read  it  nearer,  the  title,  the  blurred  cropping  cattle,  the  page 
rustling.  A  young  white  heifer.  Those  mornings  in  the  cattle 
market,  the  beasts  lowing  in  their  pens,  flop  and  fall  of  dung,  the 
bdeeders  in  hobnailed  boots  trudging  through  the  litter,  slapping 
a  palm  on  a  meaty  hindquarter,  there's  a  prime  one,  unpeeled 
switches  in  their  hands.  He  held  the  page  aslant  patiently,  bending 
his  senses  and  his  will,  his  soft  subject  gaze  at  rest.  The  crooked 
skirt  swinging  whack  by  whack  by  whack. 

The  porkbutcher  snapped  two  sheets  from  the  pile,  wrapped  up 
her  sausages  and  made  a  red  grimace. 

— Now,  my  miss,  he  said. 

She  tendered  a  coin,  smiling  boldly,  holding  her  thick  wrist 
out. 

— Thank  you  my  miss.  And  one  shilling  threepence  change. 
For  you,  please? 

Mr.  Bloom  pointed  quickly.  To  catch  up  and  walk  behind 
her  if  she  went  slowly,  behind  her  moving  hams.  Hurry  up,  damn 
it.  She  stood  outside  the  shop  in  sunlight  and  turned  lazily  to 
the  right.  He  s'ghed  down  his  nose:  they  never  understand. 
Soda  chapped  hands.  Crusted  toenails  too.  Brown  scapulars  in 
tatters,  defending  her  both  ways.  The  sting  of  disregard  glowed  to 
weak  pleasure  within  his  breast.  For  another:  a  constable  off 
duty  cuddled  her  in  Eccles'  Lane. 

— Threepence,  please. 

His  hand  accepted  the  moist  tender  gland  and  slid  it  into 
a  sidepocket.  Then  it  fetched  up  three  coins  from  his  trousers' 
pocket  and  laid  them  on  the  rubber  prickles.  They  lay,  were  read 
quickly  and  quickly  slid,  disc  by  .disc,  into  the  till. 

— Thank  you,  sir.     Another  time. 

A  speck  of  eager  fire  from  foxeyes  thanked  him.  He  with- 
drew his  gaze  after  an  instant.     No:   better  not:    another  time. 

— Good  morning,  he  said,  moving  away. 

— Good  morning,  sir. 

No  sign.  Gone.     What  matter? 

He  walked  back  along  Dorset  street,  reading  gravely.  Agen- 
dath  Netaim:  planters'  company.    You  pay  eighty  marks,  and  they 


44  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

plant  a  dunam  of  land  for  you  with  olives,  oranges,  almonds  or 
citrons.  Olives  cheaper:  oranges  need  artificial  irrigation.  Every 
year  you  get  a  sending  of  the  crop.  Your  name  entered  for  life 
as  owned  in  the  book  of  the  union.  Can  pay  ten  down  and  the 
balance  in  yearly  instalments.     Bleibtreustrasse  34  Berlin,  W.  15. 

Nothing  doing.     Still  an  idea  behind  it. 

He  looked  at  the  cattle,  blurred  in  silver  heat.  Silvered 
powdered  olivetrees.  Quiet  long  days:  pruning,  ripening.  Olives 
are  packed  in  jars,  eh?  I  have  a  few  left  from  Andrews.  Molly 
spitting  them  out.  Knows  the  taste  of  them  now.  Oranges  in  tissue 
paper  packed  in  crates.  Citrons  too.  Wonder  is  poor  Citrin  still 
alive  in  saint  Kevin's  parade.  And  Mastiansky  with  the  old  cither, 
pleasant  evenings  we  had  then.  Molly  in  Citrin's  basketchair, 
Nice  to  hold,  cool  waxen  fruit,  hold  in  the  hand,  lift  it  to  the  nostrils 
and  smell  the  perfume.  Like  that  heavy  sweet,  wild  perfume.  Al- 
ways the  same  .  year  after  year.  They  fetched  high  prices  too,  Moi- 
sel  told  me.  Arbutus  place:  Pleasants  street:  pleasant  old  times. 
Must  be  without  a  flaw,  he  said.  Coming  all  that  way:  Spain,  Gib- 
ralter,  Mediterranean,  the  Levant.  Crates  lined  up  on  the  quayside 
at  Jaffa,  chap  ticking  them  off  in  a  book,  navvies  handling  them  in 
soiled  dungarees. 

A  cloud  began  to  cover  the  sun  slowly,  wholly.     Grey.     Far. 

No.  not  like  that.  A  barren  land,  bare  waste.  Vulcanic  lake, 
the  dead  sea:  no  fish,  weedless,  sunk  deep  in  the  earth.  No  wind 
could  lift  those  waves,  grey  metal,  poisonous  foggy  waters.  Brim- 
stone they  called  it  raining  down:  the  cities  of  the  plain:  Sodom, 
Gommorah,  Edom.  All  dead  names.  A  dead  sea  in  a  dead  land, 
grey  and  old.  Old  now.  It  bore  the  oldest,  the  first  race.  A  bent 
hag  crossed  from  Cassidy's,  clutching  a  naggin  bottle  by  the  neck. 
The  oldest  people.  Wandered  far  away  over  all  the  earth,  multiply- 
ing, dying,  being  born  everything.  It  lay  there  now.  Now  it  could 
bear  no  more.  Dead:  an  old  woman's:  the  grey  sunken  belly  of 
the  world. 

Desolation. 

Grey  horror  seared  his  fiesh.  Folding  the  page  into  his  pocket 
he  turned  into  Eccles'  Street,  hurrying  homeward.  Cold  oils  slid 
along  his  veins,  chilling  his  blood:  age  crusting  him  with  a  salt 
cloak.  Well,  I  am  here  now.  Blotchy  brown  brick  houses.  Number 
seven  still  unlet.     Why  is  that?     Valuation  is  only  twenty-eight. 


The   Little    Review  45 

Towers,  Battersby ,  North,  MacArthur:  parlour  windows  plastered 
with  bills.  Plasters  on  a  sore  eye  .  To  smell  the  gentle  smoke  of 
tea,  fume  of  the  pan,  sizzling  butter.  Be  near  her  ample  bedwarmed 
flesh.    Yet,  yes. 

Quick  warm  sunlight  came  running  from  Berkeley  Road,  swift- 
ly, in  slim  sandals,  along  the  brightening  footpath.  Runs,  she  runs 
to  meet  me,  a  girl  with  gold  hair  on  the  wind. 

Two  letters  and  a  card  lay  on  the  hall  floor.  He  stooped  and 
gathered  them.  Mrs.  Marion  Bloom.  His  quickened  heart  slowed 
at  once.    Bold  hand,  Mrs.  Marion  .  .  . 

— Poldy! 

Entering  the  bedroom  he  halfclosed  his  eyes  and  walked 
through  warm  yellow  twilight  towards  her  tousled  head. 

— Who  are  the  letters  for? 

He  looked  at  them.     Mullinger,  Milly. 

— A  letter  for  me  from  Milly ,  he  said  carefully,  and  a  crad  to 
you.    And  a  letter  for  you. 

He  laid  her  card  and  letter  on  the  twill  bedspread  near  the 
curve  of  her  knees. 

— Do  you  want  the  blind  up? 

Letting  the  blind  up  by  gentle  tugs  halfway  his  backward  eye 
saw  her  glance  at  the  letter  and  tuck  it  under  her  pillow. 

— That  do?    he  asked,  turning. 

She  was  reading  the  card,  propped  on  her  elbow. 

— She  got  the  things,  she  said. 

He  waited  till  she  had  laid  the  card  aside  and  curled  herself 
back  slowly  with  a  snug  sigh. 

— Hurry  up  with  that  tea,  she  said.    I'm  parched. 

— The  kettle  is  boiling,  he  said. 

But  he  delayed  to  clear  the  chair:  her  striped  petticoat,  tossed 
soiled  linen:  and  lifted  all  in  an  armful  on  to  the  foot  of  the  bed. 

As  he  went  down  the  kitchen  stairs  she  called: 

—Poldy! 

—What? 

— Scald  the  teapot. 

Boiling  sure  enough:  a  plume  of  steam  from  the  spout.  He 
scalded  and  rinsed  out  the  teapot  and  put  in  four  full  spoons  of  tea, 
tilting  the  kettle  then  to  let  water  flow  in.  Having  set  it  to  draw 
he  took  off  the  kettle,  crushed  the  pan  flat  on  the  live  coals  and 


46  The    Little    Review 

watched  the  lump  of  butter  slide  and  melt.  While  he  unwrapped 
the  kidney  the  cat  mewed  hungrily  against  him.  He  let  the  blood- 
smeared  paper  fall  to  her  and.  dropped  the  kidney  amid  the  siz- 
zling butter  sauce.  Pepper.  He  sprinkled  it  through  his  fingers, 
ringwise,  from  the  chipped  eggcup. 

Then  he  slit  open  his  letter,  glancing  down  the  page  and  over. 
Thanks:  new  tam:  Mr.  Coghlan:  lough  Owel  picnic:  young  student: 
Blazes  Boylan's  seaside  girls. 

The  tea  was  drawn.  He  filled  his  own  moustache  cup,  sham 
crown  Derby,  smiling.  Silly  Milly's  birthday  gift.  Only  nine  she 
was  then.  No,  wait:  eight.  I  gave  her  the  necklace  she  broke. 
He  smiled,  pouring. 

O,  Milly  Bloom,  you  are  my  darling. 

You  are  my  looking  glass  from  night  to  morning. 

I'd  rather  have  you  without  a  jarthing 

Than  Katey  Keogh  with  her  ass  and  garden. 

Poor  old  professor  Goodwin.  Dreadful  old  case.  Still  he  was 
a  courteous  old  chap.  Oldfashioned  way  he  used  to  bow  Molly  off 
the  platform.  And  the  little  mirror  in  his  silk  hat.  The  night 
Milly  brought  it  into  the  parlour.  O,  look  what  I  found  in  profes- 
sor Goodwin's  hat!     All  we  laughed.    Pert  little  piece  she  was. 

He  prodded  a  fork  into  the  kidney  and  slapped  it  over:  then 
fitted  the  teapot  on  the  tray  .  Its  hump  bumped  as  he  took  it  up. 
Everything  on  it?  Bread  and  butter;  four,  sugar,  spoon,  her 
cream.  Yes.  He  carried  it  upstairs,  his  thumb  hooked  in  the  tea- 
pot handle. 

Nudging  the  door  open  with  his  knee  he  carried  the  tray  in 
and  set  it  on  the  chair  by  the  bedhead. 

— What  a  time  you  were?     she  said. 

She  set  the  brasses  jingling  as  she  raised  herself  briskly,  an 
elbow  on  the  pillow.  He  looked  calmly  down  on  her  bulk  and  be- 
tween her  large  soft  bubs,  sloping  within  her  nightdress  like  a  she- 
goat's  udder.  The  warmth  of  her  couched  body  rose  on  the  air, 
mingling  with  the  fragrance  of  the  tea  she  poured. 

A  strip  of  torn  envelope  peeped  from  under  the  dimpled  pil- 
low.   In  the  act  of  going  he  stayed  to  straighten  the  bedspread. 

— Who  was  the  letter  from?    he  asked. 

Bold  hand.     Marion. 

— ^O,  Boylan,  she  said.    He's  bringing  the  programme. 


The    Little    Review  47 


— What  are  you  singing? 

— La  ci  darem  with  J.  C.  Doyle,  she  said,  and  Love's  Old 
Sweet  Song. 

Her  full  lips,  drinking,  smiled.  Rather  stale  smell  that  incense 
leaves  next  day. 

— Would  you  like  the  window  open  a  little? 

She  doubled  a  slice  of  bread  into  her  mouth,  asking: 

— What  time  is  the  funeral? 

— Eleven,  I  think,  he  answered.    I  didn't  see  the  paper. 

Following  the  pointing  of  her  linger  he  -took  up  a  leg  of  her 
soiled  drawers  from  the  bed.  No.  Then,  a  twisted  grey  garter 
looped  round  a  stocking:  rumpled,  shiny  sole. 

— No:  that  book. 

Other  stocking.     Her  petticoat. 

— It  must  have  fell  down,  she  said. 

He  felt  here  and  there.  Voglio  e  non  vorrei.  Wonder  if  she 
pronounces  that  right:  voglio.  Not  in  bed.  Must  have  slid  down. 
He  stooped  and  lifted  the  valance.  The  book,  fallen,  sprawled 
against  the  bulge  of  the  orangekeyed  chamberpot. 

— Show  here,  she  said.  I  put  a  mark  in  it.  There's  a  word  I 
wanted  to  ask  you. 

She  swallowed  a  draught  of  tea  and,  having  wiped  her  fingertips 
smartly  on  the  blanket,  began  to  search  the  text  with  the  hairpin  till 
she  reached  the  word. 

— Met  him  what?    he  asked. 

— Here,  she  said.     What  does  that  mean? 

He  leaned  downward  and  read  near  her  polished  thumbnail. 

— Metempsychosis? 
'    —Yes.    What's  that? 

— Metempsychosis,  he  said,  frowning.  It's  Greek:  from  the 
Greek.    That  means  the  transmigration  of  souls. 

— O,  rocks!     she  said.     Tell  us  in  plain  words. 

He  smiled,  glancing  askance  at  her  mocking  eyes.  The  same 
young  eyes.  The  first  night  after  the  charade  at  Dolphin's  Barn. 
He  turned  over  the  smudged  pages.  Ruby:  a  tale  of  circus  life. 
That  we  live  after  death.  Our  souls.  That  a  man's  soul  after  he 
dies,  Dignam's  soul  .  .  .  - 

— Did  you  finish  it?    he  asked.    , 

— Yes,  she  said.    There's  nothing  smutty  in  it.    Is  she  in  love 


48  The    Little    Review 


with  the  first  fellow  all  the  time? 

^Never  read  it.    Do  you  want  another? 

— Yes.    Get  another  of  Paul  de  Kock's.    Nice  name  he  has. 

She  poured  more  tea  into  her  cup,  watching  it  flow  sideways. 

Reincarnation:  that's  the  word. 

— Some  people  believe,  he  said,  that  we  go  on  living  in  another 
body  after  death,  that  we  lived  before.  They  call  it  reincarnation. 
That  we  all  lived  before  on  the  earth  thousands  of  years  ago  or 
some  other  planet.  They  say  we  have  forgotten  it.  Some  say  they 
remember  their  past  lives. 

The  sluggish  cream  wound  curdling  spirals  through  her  tea. 
Better  remind  her  of  the  word:  metempsychosis.  An  example  would 
be  better.    An  example? 

The  Bath  of  the  Nymph  over  the  bed.  Given  away  with  the 
easter  number  of  Photo  Bits:  splendid  masterpiece  in  art  colours. 
Tea  before  you  put  milk  in.  Not  unlike  her  with  her  hair  down: 
slimmer.  Three  and  six  I  gave  for  the  frame.  She  said  it  would 
look  nice  over  the  bed.  Naked  nymphs:  Greece:  and  for  instance 
all  the  people  that  lived  then. 

He  turned  the  pages  back. 

—Metempsychosis,  he  said,  is  -what  the  ancient  Greeks  called 
it.  They  used  to  believe  you  could  be  changed  into  an  animal  or  a 
tree,  for  instance.    What  they  called  nymphs  for  example. 

Her  spoon  ceased  to  stir  up  the  sugar.  She  gazed  straight  be- 
fore her,  inhaling  through  her  arched  nostrils. 

— There's  a  smell  of  burn,  she  said.  Did  you  leave  anything 
on  the  fire? 

■ — The  kidney?    he  cried  suddenly. 

He  fitted  the  book  roughly  into  his  inner  pocket  and  hurried 
out  towards  the  smell,  stepping  hastily  down  the  stairs  with  a  flur- 
ried stork's  legs.  Pungent  smoke  shot  up  in  an  angry  jet  from  a 
side  of  the  pan.  By  prodding  a  prong  of  the  fork  under  the  kidney 
he  detached  it  and  turned  it  over  on  its  back.  Only  a  little  burned  . 
He  tossed  it  off  the  pan  on  to  a  plate  and  let  the  scanty  brown 
gravy  trickle  over  it. 

Cup  of  tea  now.  He  sat  down,  cut  and  buttered  a  slice  of  the 
loaf.  He  shore  away  the  burnt  flesh  and  flung  it  to  the  cat.  Then 
he  put  a  forkful  into  his  mouth,  chewing  with  discernment  the  tooth- 
some pliant  meat.    Done  to  a  turn.    A  mouthful  of  tea.    Then  he 


The    Little    Review  49 

cut  many  dies  of  bread,  sopped  one  in  the  gravy  and  put  it  in  his 
mouth.  What  was  that  about  some  young  student  and  a  picnic? 
He  creased  out  the  letter  at  his  side,  reading  it  slowly  as  he  chewed, 
sopping  another  die  of  bread  in  the  gravy  and  raising  it  to  his 
mouth. 

Dearest  Papli  : 

Thanks  ever  so  much  for  the  lovely  birthday  present.  It 
suits  me  splendid.  Everyone  says  I'm  quite  the  belle  in  my 
new  tam.  I  got  mummy's  lovely  box  of  cerams  and  am  writing . 
They  are  lovely.  I  am  getting  on  swimming  in  the  photo 
business  now.  Mr.  Coghlan  took  one  of  me  and  Mrs.  will  send 
when  developed.  We  did  great  biz  yesterday.  Fair  day  and 
all  the  beef  to  the  heels  were  in.  We  are  going  to  lough  Owel  on 
Monday  with  a  few  friends  to  make  a  scrap  picnic.  Give  my 
love  to  mummy  and  to  yourself  a  big  kiss  and  thanks.  I  hear 
them  at  the  piano  downstairs.  There  is  to  be  concert  in  the 
Greville  Armson  Saturady.  There  is  a  young  student  comes 
here  some  evenings  named  Bannon  his  cousins  or  something 
are  swells;  he  sings  Boylan's  (I  was  on  the  pop  of  writing 
Blazes  Boylan's)  song  about  those  seaside  girls  .  Tell  him  silly 
Milly  sends  my  best  respects.    Byby  again  and  lots  of  love. 

Your  fond  daughter 
Milly 
P.  S.  Excuse  bad  writing,  am  in  hurry. 

Fifteen  yesterday.  Curious,  fifteenth  of  the  month  too.  Her 
first  birthday  away  from  home.  Separation  .  Remember  the  morn- 
ing she  was  born,  running  to  knock  up  Mrs.  Thornton  in  Denzille 
street.  Jolly  old  woman.  Lots  of  babies  she  must  have  helped  into 
the  world.  She  knew  from  the  first  poor  little  Rudy  wouldn't  live. 
Well,  God  is  good,  sir.  She  knew  at  once.  He  would  be  eleven  now 
if  he  had  lived.  *' 

His  vacant  face  stared  pitying  at  the  postscript.  Excuse  bad 
writing.  Hurry.  Piano  downstairs.  He  sopped  other  dies  of  bread 
in  the  gravy  and  ate  piece  after  piece  of  kidney.  Twelve  and  six 
a  week.  Not  much.  Still,  she  might  do  worse.  Musichall  stage. 
Young  student.  He  drank  a  draught  of  cold  tea  to  wash  down  his 
meal.    Then  he  read  the  letter  again:  twice. 


50  The    Little    Review 

O  well:  she  knows  how  to  mind  herself.  But  if  not?  No, 
nothing  had  happened.  Of  course  it  might  .  Wait  in  any  case  till 
it  did.  A  wild  piece  of  goods.  Her  slim  legs  running  up  the  stair- 
case.   Destiny.    Ripening  now.    Vain:  very. 

He  smiled  with  troubled  affection  at  the  kitchen  window.  Day 
I  caught  her  in  the  street  pinching  her  cheeks  to  make  them  red. 
On  the  Erin's  King  that  day  round  the  Kish.  Damned  old  tub 
pitching  about.  Not  a  bit  funky.  Her  pale  blue  scarf  loose  in  the 
wind  with  her  hair. 

All  dimpled  cheeks  and  curls, 
Your  head  it  simply  swirls. 

Seaside  girls.  Torn  envelope.  Hands  stuck  in  his  trousers' 
pockets,  singing.  Swurls,  he  says.  Pier  with  lamps,  summer  even- 
ing, band. 

Those  girls,  those  girls, 
Those  lovely  seaside  girls. 

Milly  too.  Young  kisses:  the  first.  Far  away  now  past.  Mrs. 
Marion.    Reading  lying  back  now,  counting  the  strands  of  her  hair. 

A  soft  qualm,  regret,  flowed  down  his  backbone,  increasing . 
Will  happen,  yes.  Prevent.  Useless:  can't  move.  Girl's  sweet 
light  lips.  Will  happen  too.  He  felt  the  flowing  qualm  spread  over 
him.  Useless  to  move  now.  Lips  kissed,  kissing,  kissed.  Full 
gluey  woman's  lips. 

Better  where  she  is  down  there:  away.  Might  take  a  trip  down 
there.  August  bank  holid^,  only  five  and  six  return,  bix  Greeks 
off  however.     Might  work  a  press  pass.    Or  through  M'Coy. 

The  cat,  having  cleaned  all  her  fur,  returned  to  the  meatstained 
paper,  nosed  at  it  and  stalked  to  the  door.  She  looked  back  at  him, 
mewing.    Wants  to  go  out.     Let  her  wait. 

He  felt  heavy,  full:  then  a  gentle  loosening.  He  stood  up. 
The  cat  mewed  to  him. 

— Miaow!  he  said  in  answer.    Wait  till  I'm  ready. 

Heaviness:  hot  day  coming.  Too  much  trouble  to  fag  up  the 
stairs  to  the  landing. 

In  the  table  drawer  he  found  an  old  number  of  Titbits.  He 
folded  it  under  his  armpit,  went  to  the  door  and  opened  it.  The 
cat  went  up  in  soft  bounds.    Ah,  wanted  to  go  upstairs,  curl  up  in 


T  he    Little    Review  51 


a  ball  on  the  bed. 

Listening,  he  heard  her  voice: 

— Come,  come,  pussy.     Come. 

He  went  out  into  the  garden:  stood  to  listen  towards  the  next 
garden.  No  sound.  Perhaps  hanging  clothes  out  to  dry.  Fine 
morning. 

He  bent  down  to  regard  a  lean  file  of  spearmint  growing  by  the 
wall.  Want  to  manure  the  whole  place  over,  scabby  soil.  A  coat  of 
liver  of  sulphur.  All  soil  like  that  without  dung.  Lx)am,  what  is 
this  that  is?  The  hens  in  the  next  garden;  their  droppings  are 
very  good  I  heard.  Best  of  a;ll  though  are  the  cattle,  specially  when 
they  are  fed  on  those  oilcakes.  Mulch  of  dung.  ■  Reclaim  the  whole 
place.  Grow  peas  in  that  corner  there.  Lettuce.  Always  have  fresh 
greens  then. 

He  walked  on.  Where  is  my  hat,  by  the  way?  Must  have  put 
it  back  on  the  peg.  Funny  I  don't  remember  that  .  Picking  up  the 
letters.  Drago's  shopbell  ringing.  Queer  I  was  just  thinking  that 
moment.  Black  brillantined  hair  over  his  collar.  Just  had  a 
wash  and  brush  up.    Wonder  have  I  time  for  a  bath  this  morning. 

Deep  voice  that  fellow  Dlugacz  has  .  Agendath  what  is  it? 
Now,  my  miss.    Enthusiast. 

Something  new  and  easy.  Our  prize  titbit.  Matcham's  Master- 
stroke. Written  by  Mr.  Philip  Beaufoy,  Playergoers'  Club,  London. 
Payment  at  the  rate  of  one  guinea  a  column  has  been  made  to  the 
writer.  Three  and  a  half.  Three  pounds  three.  Three  pounds, 
thirteen  and  six. 

Life  might  be  so.  It  did  not  move  or  touch  him  but  it  was 
something  quick  and  neat.  He  read  on.  Neat  certainly.  Matcham 
often  thinks  of  the  masterstroke  by  which  he  won  the  laughing  witch 
who  now.  Hand  in  hand.  Smart.  He  glanced  back  through  what 
he  had  read  and  envied  kindly  Mr.  Beaufoy  who  had  written  it  and 
received  payment  of  three  pounds,  thirteen  and  six. 

Might  manage  a  sketch  .  .  Time  I  used  to  try  jotting  down  on 
my  cuff  what  she  said  dressing.  Biting  her  nether  lip  hooking  the 
placket  of  her  skirt.  Timing  her.  9.15.  Did  Roberts  pay  you  yet? 
9.20.  What  had  Gretta  Conroy  on?  9.23.  What  possessed  me  to 
buy  this  comb?  9.24.  I'm  swelled  after  that  cabbage.  A  speck  of 
dust  on  the  patent  leather  of  her  boot.    - 


52  The    Little    Review 


Rubbing  smartly  in  turn  each  welt  against  her  stockinged  calf. 
Morning  after  the  bazaar  dance  v/hen  May's  band  played  Ponchielli's 
dance  of  the  hours.  Explain  that:  morning  hours,  noon,  then  even- 
ing coming  on,  then  night  hours.  Washing  her  teeth.  That  was 
the  first  night.  Is  that  Boylan  well  off?  He  has  money.  Why? 
I  noticed  he  had  a  good  rich  smell  off  his  breath  dancing.  No  use 
humming  then.  Allude  to  it.  Strange  kind  of  music  that  last  night. 
The  mirror  was  in  shadow.  She  rubbed  her  handglass  briskly  on  her 
woolen  vest  against  her  full  wagging  bub.  Peering  into.  Lines  in 
her  eyes.    It  wouldn't  pan  out  somehow. 

Evening  hours,  girls  in  grey  gauze.  Night  hours  then,  black 
with  daggers  and  eyemasks.  Poetical  idea;  pink,  then  golden,  then 
grey,  then  black.     Still,  true  to  life  also.     Day:  then  the  night. 

In  the  bright  light  he  eyed  carefully  his  black  trousers  :  the 
ends,  the  knees,  the  houghs  of  the  knees.  What  time  is  the  funeral? 
Better  find  out  in  the  paper. 

A  creak  and  a  dark  whirr  in  the  air  high  up.  The  bells  of 
George's  church.    They  tolled  the  hour:  loud  dark  iron. 

Heigho!    Heighol  ' 

Heigho!    Heigho! 
Heigho!    HeigJio! 

Quarter  to.  There  again:  the  overtone  following  through  the 
air.    A  third. 

Poor  Dignam! 

{to  be  continued) 


The    Little    Review  53 

THE    READER   CRITIC 

The  Hoax  of  the  "Spectrics" 

"Upon  the  poetic  horizon  a  year  ago  suddenly  appeared  a  new  band  of 
versifiers.  Critics  and  poets  went  wild  over  the  Spectrics,  who  first  made 
public  their  work  in  a  book  called  Spectra,  which  purported  to  contain  the 
works  of  the  three  founders,  Anne  Knish,  an  Hungarian  girl;  Elijah  Hay, 
a  'briefless  barrister';  and  Emmanuel  Morgan,  an  American  painter,  .... 
It  is  announced  that  'Anne  Knish'  is  Arthur  Davison  Ficke,  'Elijah  Hay' 
Marjorie  Allen  Seifert,  and  'Emanuel  Morgan'  Witter  Bynner."  (Detroit 
A'czvs.) 

[Early    last    June    the    Spectrics    sent    in    a    fat    bunch    of    poems    to    the 
Little  Reviezv  (unsolicited).     One  poem.  Opus  96,  by  E.  Morgan,  appeared  in 
oi:r    July    number.       The    others    were    returned    with    an    Aiidersonian    note. 
Poor  M.  C.  A.  was  so  taken  by  storm  that  she  "published  with  eclat"  in  the 
same  issue  an  ecstatic  eulogy  of  the  "new  school": 
Banish 
Anne  Knish 
Set  the  dog  on 
Emanuel  Morgan. 
And  to   show  how  such   "artist-editors"    as   Ezra  Pound   were   completely   as- 
tounded by  the  new  "virile"  school,  we  quote  from  a  letter  written  August  10, 
1917: 

"Morgan's  'spectric'  business  is  a  littl£  late.  People  intending  to  be 
'schools'   should  have  'done  it  first'. 

"Or  rather  they  should  base  their  school  on  something  having  to  do 
with  their  art,  not  on  a  vague  aesthetic  theory.  His  manifesto  advances 
no  proposition  affecting  his  own  medium,  i.  e.,  words,  rhythm,  etc.,  only 
some  twaddle  about  ultra-violets.  Jejune.  There  is  no  difference  between 
his  free  verse  and  any  other  free  verse, 

"After  all  Imagisme  had  three  definite  propositions  about  zvriting, 
and  also  a  few  'don'ts'.  And  it  differed  from  the  neo-celtic-twilightists, 
etc.,  who  preceded  it.  Morgan  is  only  another  Imagist  imitator  with  a  different 
preface  from    Amy's." 

I  confess  to  a  deep  ignorance  of  the  nature  of  the  hoax.  If  a  man 
changes  his  name  and  writes  better  stuff,  why  does  that  make  the  public 
so  ridiculous?     Why  not  stick  to  the  name  and  pray  for  more  power  to  it? 


54  The    Little    Review 

There  is  a  certain  occult  society  that  can  deduce  your  psychic  name 
from  your  horoscope:  all  you  have  to  do  then  is  to  discard  your  Christian 
name  and  the  world  is  yours!  I  can't  do  much  for  names,  myself: 
a  frog  by  any  other  name  can  hop  as  far  and  no  farther. — jh.^ 

What    Joyce    Is    Up    Against. 

5.  5.  B.,  Chicago: 

Really  now:  Joyce!  what  does  he  think  he  is  doing?  What  do  you 
think  he  is  doing?  I  swear  I've  read  his  "Ulysses"  and  haven't  found 
out  yet  what  it's  about,  who  is  who  or  where.  Each  month  he's  worse 
than  the  last.  I  consider  myself  fairly  inteUigent .  I  have  read  more  than 
most.  There  are  some  few  things  I  expect  of  a  writer.  One  of  them 
is  coherence.  Joyce  will  have  to  change  his  style  if  he  wants  to  get 
on.  Very  few  have  the  time  or  patience  to  struggle  with  his  impressionistic 
stuff — to  get  nothing  out  of  it  even  then. 

[You  consider  yourself  an  intelligent,  "well-read"  person.  Did  it  ever 
occur  to  you  to  read  anything  on  the  nature  of  writers?  If  it  should  you 
might  help  to  remove  from  the  mind  of  the  reading  public — Whitman's 
great  audience — some  of  the  superstition  of  its  importance  to  the  writer; 
some  of  its  superstition  of  being  able  to  put  any  compulsion  upon  an  artist. 
All  compulsion  exists  within  the  artist.  It  would  take  too  long  to  discuss 
this  fully  here .  The  only  concern  of  the  artist  is  to  try  in  one  short 
lifetime  to  meet  these  inner  compulsions.  He  has  no  concern  with  audiences 
and  their  demands. — jhA 

Missed    Opportunities 

X.  Y.  Z..  New  York: 

I  haven't  seen  the  Little  Review  lately  but  am  of  course  hopeful,  always. 
Somehow  you  folks  had  the  opportunity  missed  by  Poetry,  the  Nezv  Republic, 
'the  Dial  (new  edition),  the  Seven  Arts,  et  al.,  but  you  missed  it  by  laying 
too  much  stress  on  the  foreign  trademark.  Your  English  or  rather,  British, 
crowd  are  good  stuff,  but  they  don't  span  the  universe.  The  Little  Review 
could  stand  a  little  Catholicism. 

[This  is  a  very  typical  letter.  It  comes  from  all  kinds  of  people, — from 
men  like  the  writer  who  is  anxious  about  American  art,  and  from 
the  plain  man  cherishing  his  vices  of  provincialism.  On  the  other  hand  there 
have    been    enough    people    of    educaton    and    vigour    of    mind    to    back    our 


The    Little    Review  55 

faith  in  an  aim  to  establish'  some  sort  of  intellectual  communication  between 
America,  England  and  France. 

We  have  had  no  dream  as  yet  of  spanning  the  universe .  Our  interest  and 
intent  the  past  year  has  been  to  span  the  Atlantic,  to  end  America's  intellectual 
isolation.  We  pubhshed  the  Little  Review  for  three  years,  giving  almost  all 
our  space  to  more  or  less  interesting  experiments  by  American  writers  and  to 
some  achievements.  Our  books  show  the  same  balance  of  support  and  criticism 
as  for  the  present  concern. 

It  is  a  slow  and  wearing  process,  trying  to  establish  a  magazine  of  the 
arts  in  America.  Others  have  failed  even  when  heavily  endowed.  We 
have  tried  to  do  a  double  task  on  faith  and  with  spirit.  We  have  given  over 
almost  the  entire  space  for  one  year  to  our  foreign  contributors.  We  think  we 
have  established  some  sort  of  audience  for  contemporary  British  and  French 
work. 

Our  correspondent  says  we  had  the  opportunity  missed  by  the  New 
Republic  J  the  Dial,  the  Sei'eii  Arts,  et  al.  We  are  not  aware  that  these 
journals  have  had  the  opportunity  to  do  what  we  have  done.  He  says 
that  we  have  missed  some  mysterious  opportunity  by  publishing  in  one  year 
some  of  the  best  poems  of  William  Butler  Yeats,  the  best  of  James  Joyce,  of 
Hueffer,  of  T.  S.  Eliot,  etc.;  by  introducing  many  new  men  :  not  neglecting 
America.  We  have  brought  out  a  complete  number  in  French  and  have  given 
reproduction  of  modern  drawings.  With  our  aim  as  a  premise  I  can't  see 
what  we  have  missed, — except  our  meals. — //z.l 

Ben     Hecht 

E.  P.,  London: 

Ben  Hecht  is  an  asset.  Hard  reading  and  a  bit  heavy,  in  the  April 
number,  but  the  man  who  can  write  "Philosophy — the  profound  and  per- 
spiring ehmination  of  adjectives  from  life",  "Night,  the  great  adjective  of' 
dark,"  and  other  sentences  in  his  stuff,  has  the  root  of  the  matter  in  him. 
He  is  trying  to  come  to  grips.  Also,  when  he  gets  out  of  his  head  the 
'idea  that  he  must  suit  the  Smart  Set  public,  and  recalls  the  fact  that  Mau- 
passant does  not  exaggerate,  he  can  write  contes. 

James    Joyce 

R.  McM.,  Los  Angeles  : 

You  are  a  firm  believer  in  cerise  abnormal  art,  I  take  it.  Has  art  then 
no  elasticity,   no   tolerance,   no  humor,     If  Joyce  is   an  artist   put   him  besida 


56  T  k  e    Lit  tie    R  e  view 


Turgeniev,  Chekhov,  Goethe  .  .  .  Even  in  decadency — anaemic,  palely  diseased, 
— how  do  you  stack  up  beside  even  poor  Oscar  Wilde,  Beaudelaire,  possibly 
Swinburne?  They  had  intellect  added  to  their  art  ears.  I'd  like  to  hear  con- 
vincing justification  of  Joyce  other  than  mere  statement  that  "his  work 
is  art".  I  should  be  reluctant  to  say  "this  is  art"  of  anything  until  time  has 
proved  its  staying  power.  The  human  mind  and  perception  is  so  finite  and  in- 
sular, why  be  so  sure  you  and  your  group,  small,  select,  and  exotically  inter- 
esting, are  absolutely  correct?  We  have  with  us  in  the  world  other  than  Joyce, 
Lewis,  etc.  Rolland  (Jean  Christophe),  Barbusse  (Under  Fire  —  much 
overrated,  by  the  way),  Nexo  and  many  who  have  virility,  intellect,  philosophy 
and  art, — not  sexually  perverted.  The  prostitute  who  paints  an  already  beau- 
tiful body  may  have  added  unnatural  charm,  but  why  call  it  art?  Justify 
some  of  Joyce's  obsence  commonplaces  taken  from  life  neither  for  power  nor 
beauty  nor  for,  any  reason  but  to  arrest  attention,  cheap  Bowery  vileness. 

[Yes,  I  am  a  believer  in  "cerise  abnormal  art."      Why   all  this  efifort  to 
bring  shame  upon  cerise  ?     Colour  is  a  vital  necessity  in  the  organization  of  ^ 
the  univers^  as  vital  and  necessary  as  form.     The   artist  has  recognized  and 
used  both  as  means  of  expression. 

They  are  difficult  words^normal  and  abnormal;  they  may  be  used  with 
many  turns.  I  believe  in  abnormal  art  because  Art  is  abnormal  :  at  least 
up  to  the  present  it  hasn't  been  a  normal  occupation  of  normal  men.  All  ac- 
tivities that  are  not  art  activities  might  as  easily  seem  sub-normal  to  the  ar- 
tist.    Where  do  we  get? 

If  only  some  of  your  reluctance  to  call  a  thing  art  might  stay  with  you  in 
discussing  artists,  how  becoming  ...  If  you  were  reluctant  to  call  Wilde, 
Beaudelaire  and  Swinburne  so  many  "cerise"  adjectives  .... 

You  seem  to  want  some  justification  of  our  position  in  classifying  work  as 
Art  before  time  has  proved  its  staying  powers.  We  do  not  belong  to  that  part 
of  humanity  whose  life  in  its  first  half  is  directed  by  its  parents 
and  grandparents,  and  in  its  second  half  by  its  children  and  grand- 
children. If  an  engineer  builds  a  bridge  across  a  river  a  group  of  other 
skilled  engineers  wOuld  probably  be  able  to  tell  whether  it  were  a  bridge  or 
merely  a  decoration  in  the  air,  without  leaving  the  matter  to  time  and  chance. 
Crudely,  it  is  something  like  this  with  Art.  Time  has  made  some  asinine  mis- 
takes: in  the  galleries  of  Europe,  time,  represented  by  town  councils,  has  col- 
lected some  wierd  specimens — on  a  more  or  less  "tag-you're-it"  basis. 

It  is  impossible  for  Joyce  to  be  obscene.  He  is  too  concentrated  on  his 
work.  He  is  too  religious  about  life.  You  perhaps  think  yourself  pure-minded: 
everything  should  then  be  pure  to  you.     If  you  are  not  you  can  not  put  what 


The    Little    Review  57 


u  are  not  upon  Joyce.     The  other  day  a  young  woman  said  to  me:     "Tell 
about  this  'to  the  pure  all  is  pure'.     I  suspect  them  both".     /  suspect  all 
10  find  either  purity  or  obscenity  in  Art. 

How  could  any  one  begin  to  discuss  Joyce  except  with  a  person  who  has 

intense  grip  on  modern  thought?  The  earth  slimes  with  a  slightly-informed 
otoplasm  called  humanity:  informed  with  a  few  instincts.  Some  few  have 
come  aware  of  cerebral  irradiations.  Fewer  attain  active  cerebration.  The 
tist  has  always  known  that  outside  or  beyond  or  beneath  or  before  both  these 

irradiations,  psychic  or  x  or  n-th,  and  has  tried  to  describe  and  record  them, 
yce  has  perfected  a  technique  which  eliminates  description.  He  conceives 
d  records. — Jh. 

The    Emolument 

"Poetry"  said  the  American  female,   "consists  of  beautiful  sentiments  ex- 

essed  in  a  lofty  and  flowery  language."     For  this  revelation  of  perspicacity 

e  received  the  sum  of  fifty  dollars  from  a  committee  containing  Ed.  Markham, 

E.  Woodbury,  Flo.  Wilkinson,  Ridgley  Torrence,  Edith  W.  Matthison,   and 

3bt.  Frost.     They  had  been  convinced  of  this  all  along. 

{Mais,  Robert,  qu'est  ce  que  tu  fais  dans  cetie  galcre?) 

A    Refreshing    Reaction 

A^.  /.,  California: 

Congratulations  on  the  getting  out  of  a  mighty  fascinating  magazine. 
)me  of  the  things  therein  I  simply  can't  take — like  castor  oil;  but  that's  my 
vn  fault,  and  maybe  my  loss  .  Anyhow  I  aril  enjoying  Ford  Hueffer's  series 
ry  much  indeed;  and  I  thought  Ben  Hecht's  "Fragments"  more  than  love- 
Keep  battering  at  the  conservatives;  we  need  such  counter  balances  as 
e  Little  Review. 

Tragedy 

0  that  I  might  have 
Married  you!     I  Hke  the  way 
You   say   "Good   morning." 

Ernest  Hunt. 


58  The    Little    Review 


Love  —  Chemical     Relationship 

UN    ENFANT    FRANCAIS  :     MARCEL    CA    FUTURIST) 

EIN    DEUTSCHES    KIND:    ELSE    (A    FUTURE    FUTURIST) 

POPLARS— SUN— A   CLAIHIGHWAY. 

The  poplars  whispered  THINE  DREAMS  Marcel! 

They  laughed — they  turned  themselves — ^they  turned  themselves 

TO  turn  themselves — they  giggled — they  blabbered  like  Ihine-self — they  smiled! 

they  smiled  WITH   the  sun— OVER  the  sun— 

BECAUSE    OF   the    sun — with    the   same    french    lighthearted    sensual    playful 

MORBID  smile  like  thineself— Marcel ! 

Poplars  thou  lovedst  and  straight  highways  with  the  smell  of  poplars  which  is 
like  leather  as  fine — like  morocco  leather  in  thine  nostrils^— And  thine  nostrils 
are  of  glass! 
Thou  seest  the  smell  uprise  to  the  brain! 

Sensual    thine    eyes    became — slanting— closed    themselves! 

Thine  smile   turned   pain— died — 
Then  thou  diedst! 

Thereafter  thou  becamest  like  glass. 

The  poplars   and  the  sun  turned  glass — they   did   not   torture  thee   any  more! 

Everything  now  is  glass — motionless! 

THAT  WAS  IT  THOU  DISCOVERDST— AND  WHICH  IS  GIVEN  TO  THEE 

AFTER  THINE  DEATH— MARCEL ! 

Yet  BEFORE  thou  lovedst  the  straight  yellow  i highways — the  whirring  poplars 

— the  fat  color  of  clay — and  thou  lovedst  it  beyond  measure! 

THEREFORE  THOU   HADST   TO  KILL  THINESLF— IT  KILLED   THEE! 

Thou  now  livest  motionless  in  a  mirror! 

Everything  is  a  mirage  in  thee — thine  world  is  glass— glassy ! 
Glassy  are  thine  ears — thine  hands — thine  feet  and  thine  face. 
Of  glass  are  the  poplars  and  the  sun. 


The    Little    Review  59 

Unity — Einklang — harmony — Zweifellosigkeit ! 
Thou   art  reurrected — hast  won — livest — art  dead! 

BUT  I   LOVE   THEE   LIKE  BEFORE.     BECAUSE   I   AM   FAT   YELLOW 
CLAY! 

THEREFORE  I   LOVE   THAT  VERY   THIN   GLASS  WITH   ITS   COLOR- 
CHANGE;  BLUE— YELLOW— PURPLE  PINK. 

BO  long  must  I  love  it  until  I  myself  will  become  glass  and  everything  around 
me  glassy. 

Then  art  thou  I!     I  do  not  need  thee  any  more — ! 
So  BEAUTIFUL  will  I  be  like  thou  thineself  art, 
Thou  standest  beside  me — and   ^rt  NOTHING  beside  me! 
Yet  today  I  still  must  love  mine  LOVE — ! 

I  must  bleed — weep — laugh — ere  I  turn  to  glass  and  the  world  around  me  glassy ! 

Else,,  Baroness  von  Freytag-Loringhoven 


Sixteen 

The  pellucid  gilded  lake 
where,  into  a  lap  of  golden  blood 
the  pavonin  feathers  of  fishes  droop, 
lies  over  the  maroon,  sybaritic  horizon. 

There  were  ultra-neons  blowing  across  dirty  gardens, 

like  nectar  drifting  over  papyrus: 

parallelisms  of  papier-mache  monolithics. 

And  all  around  arose  the  ovo viviparous  neophytes 

with  monomania: 

the  monogenesis,  monsignore. 

The  gaunt  stoutness  of  a  spectral  macrocosm 

diffuses  symbolic  ignorance  upon  the   corollating  genesis: 

smothering  the  proem  of  hot  ova 

with  an  excess  of  rainbows. 

The  boy  constructed  beotian  apologues 

to  dilute  a  sincere  aphrodisiac. 

Youths  of  sixteen  are  mollusks. 

R.  Reiss. 


6o  The    Little    Review 


A    Monolingual    Fan 

E.  Hamilton,  Chicago: 

I  have  been  an  enthusiastic  reader  of  the  Little  Review  for  two  .years 
or  more.  Although  observing  its  gradual  retrogradation  I  have  been  ex- 
pectant, hoping  that  it  would  come  back  to  its  old  high  standards.  But  alas! 
I  have  given  up.  The  audacity  of  publishing  Pound's  study  of  French  poets, 
in  French,  is  ridiculous  beside  being  inconsiderate  of  non-French-speaking 
readers. 

Mary  Garden  and  Art  seem  to  have  become  a  fetish  with  ;^ou.  Art! 
Art!  Art!  Why  all  the  babbling  about  Art?  Give  us  more  Art  and  less 
talk  about  it! 

The  pei;fection  of  art  is  to  conceal  art.  It  seems  a  pity  that  such  a  splen- 
did :ieriodical  should  be  allowed  to  so  deteriorate! 


Literary    Circle 

Elizabeth  Longjellow  Siddons,  Cassville,  Neiv  York: 

I  have  wanted  for  a  long  time  to  congratulate  you  on  the  great  work  your 
magazine  is  doing  for  the  cause  of  real  art  in  America.  As  Secretary  of  the 
Ocumseh  Literary  Circle  I  have  been  commissioned  by  the  members,  upon  un- 
animous vote  at  the  last  meeting,  to  tell  you  that  of  all  the  magazines  which 
have  been  gone  through  by  our  reading  circle  in  the  past  year  the  Little 
Review  has  been  deemed  the  most  worthy  of  praise  and  commendation  for 
the  very  high  merit  of  its  content  and  also  for  the  excellent  work  it  is 
doing. 

In  our  reading  circle  which  meets  every  week  we  have  discussed  the 
most  advanced  literary  magazines  regularly  and  had  papers  presented  on 
them  by  each  member.  Syracuse  now  has  a  large  bookstore  where  we  can 
get  the  very  latest  thing  in  literature  when  we  go  to  town.  The  sentiment  of 
the  circle  has  been  unanimously  throughout  that  the  Little  Review  is  unquaU- 
fiedly  right  in  saying  that  America  needs  a  great  artistic  awakening.  Though 
we  are  only  a  small  part  of  this  great  country,  we  have  felt  the  dead  weight 
of  ignorance  of  the  fine  and  beautiful  things  in  life  and  especially  the  lack 
of  some  medium  to  convey  to  us  some  of  the  deeper  things  that  the  great 
artists  and  writers  of  Europe  are  doing.  Probably  not  one  person  in  three, 
possibly  not  one  in  four,  out  here  knows  anything  at  all  of  the  work  of 
Romain  RoUand,  undoubtedly  one  of  the  greatest  writers  of  this  century  in 


The     Little     Review  6i 


France.  And  what  a  long  way  we  have  yet  to  go  from  him  to  the  greater 
masters  with  whom  you  are  beginning  to  make  us  acquainted  every  month 
in.  your  Little  Review. 

We  have  had  this  brought  home  to  us,  oh  so  forcibly,  by  the  brilhant 
things  Mr.  Pound  has  said  about  the  reading  public  in  this  country.  I  can- 
not tell  you,  though  I  would  like  to,  how  much  we  enjoy  the  things  Mr.  Pound 
has  so  cleverly  said  about  artistic  America  in  the  Little  Review.  We  are  grate- 
ful to  him  and  to  the  Little  Reviezv. 


About  Newsstand  Sales 

The  Little  Review  is  not  for  sale  on  all  the  newsstands. 
Newsdealers  are  not  particularly  interested  in  displaying  a 
magazine  which  makes  no  bids  for  popularity,  and  our 
means  in  distribution  to  casual  readers  are  therefore  some- 
what limited. 

Many  readers  have  placed  standing  orders  with  their 
newsagents  in  order  to  insure  as  many  copies  as  they  may 
want  every  month.     This  is  the  next  thing  to  subscribinf. 


62  The  Little  Revie 


w 


NOTES 

This  is  called  an  American  number  not  because  its  contributors  are 
Americans  (most  of  them  are  not),  but  because  they  are  all  at  present  living 
and  workmg  in  America.  It  is  offered  as  a  resume  of  the  current  work  of  a 
represenative  group,  but  to  be  fully  representative  it  should  include  also  such 
poets  as  Robert  Frost,  Mina  Loy,  Marianna  Moore.  Owing  to  various  delays 
m  the  post,  etc.,  these  may  appear  in  another  number. 

I 

I  am  responsible  for  this  issue. 

It  was  made  with  no  compromise  to  Margaret  Anderson  and  Ezra  Pound. 

It  IS  not  a  revolt  against  our  "foreign  all-star  cast".  It  is  not  a"  return 
to  our  former  ways".  It  is  not  a  jury-free  experiment .  It  is  not  an  effort  to 
find  more  Art.  It  is  simply  a  review  of  work  being  done  in  America  by 
writers  who  are  called  artists. 

We  have  been  attacked  since  the  beginning  for  our  "personal  judgments". 
My  behef  in  personal  judgments  is  unimpaired.  I  am  not  discrediting  them  by 
presenting  an  issue  free  from  such  judgments.  The  contributions  in  this  issue 
are  those  selected  by  theh-  writers  to  represent  them.  Art  is  its  own  freedom 
There  can  always  be  argument  as  to  whether  a  work  of  art  is  of  first  or  second 
degree,  but  none  as  to  whether  or  not  it  is  Art. 

Comments   are  solicited.—;/?. 

II 

If  a  man  writes  me  that  he  encloses  a  poem  which  he  thinks  I  will  find 
worth  printing,  if  only  as  a  study  in  blank  verse,  because,  for  various  reasons 
he  has  written  very  good  blank  verse,  etc.,  etc.,  I  am  practically  sure  that  his 
poe»  will  not  be  "interesting".  By  this  I  mean  that  it  will  not  have  a  first  in- 
terest^, as  contrasted  with  what  I  call  the  second  interest  that  attaches  to  all 
nice     work,  all  excellent  work,  all  that  is  "well-done",  etc.,  etc 

For  mstance,  on  page  38  there  is  a  poem  with  the  line  "her  round  eyes  be- 
come wet  and  protrude  hke  an  overfull  inkstand".  Jhis  is  excellent.  But  the 
poem  does  not  stand  as  a  thing  of  first  interest.  It  is  this  very  definite  divid- 
ing line  that  serves  me  with  my  definition  of  the  artist.  It  is  because  I  believe 
intensely  in  it  that  Alfred  Kremborg  thinks  I  am  a  bad  editor.  It  is  for  this 
reason  that  I  think  I  am  a  good  one. 

I  believe  the  world  offers  sufficient  boredoms.  I  see  no  reason,  while  I 
retain  consciousness,  to  assist  in  the  process  of  multiplying  them. 

This  is  merely  to  voice  my  protest  against  the  present  number  which  in 
several  instances,   to  me,   falls  to   "second   interests,"— or  below.— Af.   C    A 


The    Little    Review  63 

Glossary 

jh 

From  time  to  time  a  clamour  goes  up  from  our  readers:  "Tell  us  some- 
thing about  the  men  who  appear  in  the  Little  Review." 

This  month  we  have  tried  to  do  something  about  it.  Our  notes  on  the 
front  pages  however  will  not  answer  such  questions  as  these:  "I  am  writing 
an  article  on  Ezra  Pound.  If  he  is  an  American  why  does  he  live  in  London? 
Is  he  nearing  middle- age?  Has  he  close-cropped  black  hair  and  a  keen  spare 
bony  face?"  "Do  you  know  Amy  Lowell?  What  is  she  like?"  "Does  Margaret 
Anderson  look  like  a  suffragette?"  "Are  Ben  Hecht  and  H.  L.  Mencken  the 
same  person?"  .  .  .  Perhaps  it  is  a  natural  curiosity,  when  you  drink  good 
wine,  to  wonder  what  the  grapes  were  like. 

I  shall  attempt  a  glossary: 

Anderson,  Sherwood:  Like  some  portrait  done  with  a  palette  knife. 
Dark  hair  falling  over  dark  eyes.  Mellowness  and  strength.  Wide  yellow 
trench-scarf;  tweeds.  A  laugh  dark  and  rich  like  earth  just  turned  up  by  the 
plow.     He  is  not  Margaret  Anderson's  brother,  we  are  sorry  to  say. 

Anderson,  Margaret:  If  suffragettes  looked  like  Margaret  Anderson  I 
doubt  if  there  would  ever  have  been  suffragettes:  or  politics. 

Hecht,  Ben:  Ben  Hecht  is  Ben  Hecht,  strange  to  say,  in  spite  of  the 
efforts  of  some  newspapers  to  change  him  into  Mr.  Mencken.  Young,  with  the 
curbed  vigour  of  a  Blake  drawing.  Handsome.  A  pale  green  face.  ". . .  But 
my  great  desire  is  to  cut  loose.  There  is  no  one  who  can  write  as  I  can 
if  I  unleash  my  vocabulary,  but  alas  there  will  always  be  things  just  as  im- 
portant as  mere  beauty  to  trip  me  ...  Don't  think  of  me  across  Joyce  and 
Lewis.  Stevie  Crane  rather,  Gautier,  Huysmans,  a  bit  of  Louys,  De  Gour- 
mont,  and  a  peculiar  hate  that  I  think  is  original  .  .  .  Don't  expect  any 
character  drawing.  I  loathe  character  drawing.  Its  so  damned  wearyingly 
simple". 

Lowell,  Amy:  "An  American  Mandarin"  some  one  has  called  her.  Rather 
more  occidental:  vast  and  arrogant:  carved  arrogance  in  the  nose  and  drawn 
in  the  mouth.  In  mien  and  movement  the  favored  of  self,  the  multitude,  and  of 
fortune.     A  Roman  emperor  exiled  in  time  and  place  and  spirit. 

Pound,  Ezra:  Our  friend  asking  about  Ezra  Pound  has  more  nearl^^ 
described  Carl  Sandburg.  Ezra  :  young  :  St  George  and  the  Dragon  :  aureola 
of  hair . 

Solon,  Israel:  Solon  would  be  very  much  bothered  if  I  should  mention 
his  brain  power  or  his  ability  to  "talk".  Only  one  of  the  Russians  should  draw 
him. 


64  The    Little    Review 


The  Little  Review  holds  the  sole  right  to  reproduce  Stanislaw 
Szukalski's  drawings  which  appear  in  this  issue.  Copyrighted  by 
Mr.  Szukalski. 


Complete  files  of  The  Little  Review  for  May  1917-1918 
may  be  obtained  by  sending  your  orders  to  24  West  i6th 
Street,  New  York  City. 

This  volume  will  be  unique  in  the  literary  history  of 
America. 

Order  at  once. 


COMPLAINTS 


Your    Complaint 

Before  complaining   that  your  magazine  has  not  arrived 

please  remember  the  War 

Freight  congestion 

Government   control   of  railroads 

Our    Complaint 

If  our  subscribers  would  send  us  notice  of  changes  of 
address  it  would  help  us  to  keep  our  youth,  and  also  save 
further  congestion  of  the  mail  service . 

Do  not  expect  your  postoffice  to  forward  your  magazine  . 
Any  forwarding  of  second-class  hiatter  is  a  re-mailing  and 
requires  postage.. 


ANNOUNCEMENTS 

The  October  number  will  contain  : 

Poems  and  drawings  by  Jean  de  Bosschere 
Seven  Lyrics  by  William  Butler  Yeats 
La  Wallonie,  by  Ezra  Pound 
Fashions  in  Criticism,  by  J.  H-  Le  Monier 
The  Disease  of  American  "Criticism  " 


The  recent  editions  of  the  Little  Review  have  been  selling  out 
very  rapidly.  In  order  to  avoid  the  disappointment  of  missing  a 
number,  and  to  help  us  to  comply  with  the  new  paper  regulations, 
become  a  postal  subscriber  at  once. 


ELKIN  MATHEWS,  Publisher  and  Vendor  of  Choice  and  Rare 
Editions  in  Belles  Lettres.  4a  Cork  Street,  London  W.  i. 

Note  to  Collectors 

Early  editions  of  Mr.  Pound's  books,  as  follows: 

A  Lume  Spento  (Antonelli,  Venice,  1908).    Last  copy  sold  at  £8. 

Quinzaine  (Pollock,  1908),  unobtainable. 

Quinzaine  (my  edition),  unobtainable. 

Personae  (1909),  published  at  2/6,  a  few  copies  (postage  included) 
$1.25. 

Exultations  (1909),  published  at  2/6,  a  few  copies  (postage  in- 
cluded) $1.25. 

Canzoni  (1911),  not  to  be  reissued.    $1.00  (postage  included). 

Personae  and  Exultations,  in  one  volume,  19 13;  none  remain. 

Canzoni  and  Ripostes,  in  one  volume,  19 13.  25  copies  remain. 
$1.25  (postage  included). 

Lustra  (private  edition,  124  pages),  1916,  with  photogravure.  21 
copies  offered  at  $3.00  (postage  included). 

Lustra  (public  edition  with  photogravure),  116  pages,  $1.50,  postage 
included,  binding  in  heavy  canvass. 


THE   STRADIVARIUS  OF   PIANOS 


313   FIFTH  AVENUE 
NEW  YORK 


'rr-TTTT: 


No  Oiher  Typewriter 
CdnDoThaV- 

Write  All  Languages,  All  Sciences,  All  Sizes 
and  Style  of  type  on  ONE  machine. 

Multiplex  Hammond 

''Writing  Machine'' 

mul.tiplex  hammond's 

Many  styles,    many  languages 
Two  typos  or  I  anguages  al  ways  in  the  machine 

Write  today  for  the  story  of  the  "Miracle 
of  tne  Multiplex".  We  will  be  glad  to  send 
it   without  placing  you   under  any   obligation. 

HAMMOND  TYPEWRITER  COMPANY 

558A  East  69th  Street  —  New  York  City 

Inquire  for  our  special  terms  to  professionals. 


ffJi. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF   THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


James  Joyce,  Ezra  Pound, 
Ford  Madox  Hueffer,  Ben  Hecht, 
Sherwood  Anderson,  translations  from 
Jules  Laforgue  and  Arthur  Rimbaud 


THE  EGOIST 

i:hi;iltl!!!!!li!li!l!IIIKIIIII!!!!l!aii!il!i!lilK1:IIHI« 

This  journal  is  not  a  chatty  literary  review:  its  mis- 
sion is  not  to  divert  and  amuse:  it  is  not  written  for  tired 
and'  depressed  people.  Its  aim  is  rather  to  secure  a  fit  audi- 
ence, and  to  render  available  to  that  audience  contemporary 
literary  work  bearing  the  stamp  of  originality  and  per- 
manance:  to  present  in  the  making  those  contemporary 
literary  efforts  which  ultimately  will  constitute  20th 
century  literature. 

The  philosophical  articles  which  The  Egoist  publishes, 
by  presenting  the  subject-matter  of  metaphysics  in  a  form 
which  admits  of  logical  treatment,  are  promising  a  new 
era  for  philosophy  .  The  power  of  its  fictional  work  is 
investing  that  commonest  but  laxest  of  literary  forms — the 
novel  (as  written  in  English) — with  a  new  destiny  and 
a  new  meaning.  In  poetry,  its  pages  are  open  to  exper- 
iments which  are  transforming  the  whole  conception  of 
poetic  form,  while  among  its  writers  appear  leaders  in 
pioneering  methods  radically  affecting  the  allied  arts. 

llllliU!;!ll!il'lli;illi:i!l!!li!l!:il!ll!l!!!|[J;llli!l!li!yiil!l!{||||llillUJII!!!!;!!li;!;;;ii!illli^ 

Obviously  a  journal  of  interest  to  virile  readers  only. 
Such  should  write,  enclosing  subscription)  to 

TME  EGOIST 

23  ADELPHI-  TERIL\CE  HOUSE.  ROBERT  STREET 
LONDON.  W.  C.  2. 

li!|!lll!!!il!i;!i»U!lllllill!lll;l!lil!li|iu;i!lillllll!lll!!!!nilllll!ilil{illlllllli^^ 

PUBLISHED     MONTHLY 

Price,  fifteen  cents  a  number 
Yearly  subscription,  one  dollar  sixty  cents 


THE    LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


JULY,    1918 

Our  Tetrarchal  Precieuse         (from  Jules  Laforgue) 
Broken  Necks  Ben  Hecht 

Nishi  Hongwanji  Iris  Barry 

Six  Illuminations  of  Rimbaud  Helen  Rootham 

Seeds  Sherwood  Anderson 

Saptam  Edoyarder  Svargabohan  /.  Gonne 

Our  Contemporaries  Ezra  Pound 

Ulysses,  V  James  Joyce 

Women  and  Men,  V  Ford  Madox  Hueffer 

Cooperation  E.  P. 

De  Goncourt 
The  Reader  Critic 

Copyright,    1918,    by    Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  Nezv  York 

Foreign  office: 
5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London   W.  8. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  12/-  a  year. 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an.         ^ 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York,  N.  Y., 

under  the  act  March  3,  187Q. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


Ulysses  —  copyright  19 14,  1918  by  Margaret  Caroline  Anderson 
and  renewed  1942.  1946  by  Nora  Joseph  Joyce  —  reprinted  by 
permission  of  Random  House,  Inc.  and  the  administrator  of  the 
estate  of  the  late  James  Augustine  Aloysius  Joyce. 


THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF   PIANOS 


313    FIFTH    AVENUE 
NEW   YORK 


ANNOUNCEMENTS 

The  August  number  of  the  Little  Review  will  be  a 

HENRY  JAMES  NUMBER.     In  addition  to  articles  by 

May  Sinclair  and  Ezra  Pound,  dt  will  contain  the  following: 

The  Question  of  Variants,  by  Theodora  Bosanquet 

Henry  James,  as  seen  from  the  Yellow  Book,  by  Ethel 

Coburn  Mayne 
Henry  James  and  the  Ghostly,  by  A.  R.  Orage 
In  Memory 
The  Hawthorne  Aspect,  by  T.  S.  Eliot,  etc.,  etc. 

A  French  Editor 

JULES  ROMAINS,  indicated  in  our  February  number 
as  the  most  important  of  the  younger  French  writers,  is 
about  to  join  the  staff  of  the  Little  Review. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  July,   1918  No.  3 

OUR   TETRARCHAL    PRECIEUSE 

(A    divagation    from  Jules    Laforgue) 

Thayer    Exton 


THERE  arose,  as  from  a  great  ossified  sponge,  the  comic-opera 
Florence-Nightingale  light-house,  with  junks  beneath  it  click- 
ing in  vesperial  meretricious  monotony;  behind  them  the  great  cliff 
obtruding  solitary  into  the  oily,  poluphloisbious  ocean,  lifting  its 
confection  of  pylons;  the  poplar  rows,  sunk  yards,  Luna  Parks,  etc., 
of  the  Tetrarchal  Palace,  polished  jasper  and  basalt,  funereal,  un- 
dertakerial,  lugubrious,  blistering  in  the  high-lights  under  a  pale 
esoteric  sun-beat;  encrusted,  bespattered  and  damascened  with 
cynocephali,  sphinxes,  winged  bulls,  bulbuls,  and  other  sculptural 
by-laws.  The  screech-owls  from  its  jungle  could  only  look  out  upon 
the  shadowed  parts  of  the  sea,  which  they  did  without  optic  incon- 
venience, so  deep  was  the  obscured  contagion  of  their  afforested 
blackness. 

The  two  extraneous  princes  went  up  toward  the  stableyard,  gaped 
at  the  effulgence  of  peacocks,  glared  at  the  derisive  gestures  of  the 
horse-cleaners,  adumbrated  insults,  sought  vainly  for  a  footman  or 
someone  to  take  up  their  cards. 

The  tetrarch  appeared  on  a  terrace,  removing  his  ceremonial 
gloves. 

The  water  sprinkled  in  the  streets  in  anticipation  of  the  day's 
parade,  dried  in  little  circles  of  dust.  The  tetrarch  puffed  at  his 
hookah  with  an  exaggeration  of  dignity,  he  was  disturbed  at  the 
presence  of  princes,  he  was  disturbed  by  the  presence  of  Jao;  he  de- 
sired to  observe  his  own  ruin,  the  slow  diliquescence  of  position,  with 
a  fitting  detachment  and  lassitude.  Jao  had  distributed  pamphlets, 
the  language  was  incomprehensible.     Jao  had  been  stored  in  the 


The    Little    Review 


cellarage,  his  following  distributed  pamphlets. 

In  the  twentieth  century  of  its  era  the  house  of  Emeraud  Archy- 
typas  was  about  to  have  its  prize  bit  of  fireworks:  a  war  with  the 
other  world after  so  many  ages  of  purely  esoteric  culture! 

Jao  had  declined  both  the  poisoned  coffee  and  the  sacred  sword 
of  the  Samurai,  courtesies  offered,  in  this  case,  to  an  incomprehen- 
sible foreigner.  Even  now,  with  a  superlation  of  form,  the  sacred 
kriss  had  been  sent  to  the  court  executioner,  no  mere  every-day  im- 
plement. The  princes  arrived  at  this  juncture.  There  sounded  from 
the  back  alleys  the  preparatory  chirrping  of  choral  societies,  and 
the  wailing  of  pink-lemonade  sellers. 

Tomorrow  the  galley  would  be  gone.  Leaning  over  the  syrupy 
clematis,  Emeraud  crumbled  brioches  for  the  fishes,  reminding  him- 
self that  he  had  not  yet  collected  the  remains  of  his  wits.  There 
v/as  no  galvanization  known  to  art,  science,  industry  or  the  minis- 
trations of  sister-souls  that  would  rouse  his  long  since  respectable 
carcass. 

Yet  at  his  birth  a  great  tempest  had  burst  above  the  dynastic 
manor;  credible  persons  had  noticed  the  lightenings  scrolling  Alpha 
and  Omega  above  it;  and  nothing  had  happened.  He  had  given  up 
flagellation.  He  walked  daily  to  the  family  necropolis:  a  cool  place 
in  the  summer.    He  summoned  the  Arranger  of  Inanities. 

II. 

Strapped,  pomaded,  gloved,  laced;  with  patulous  beards,  with 
their  hair  parted  at  the  backs  of  their  heads;  with  their  cork-screw 
curls  pulled  back  from  their  foreheads  to  give  themselves  tone  on 
their  medallions;  with  helmets  against  one  hip;  twirling  the  musk- 
balls  of  their  sabres  with  their  disengaged  restless  fingers,  tlie  hyper- 
borean royalties  were  admitted.  And  the  great  people  received  them, 
in  due  order:  chief  mandarins  in  clump,  the  librarian  of  the  palace 
(Conde  de  las  Navas),  the  Arbiter  Elegantium,  the  Curator  major 
of  Symbols,  the  Examiner  of  the  High  Schools^  the  Supernumary 
priest  of  the  Snow  Cult,  the  Administrator  of  Death,  and  the  Chief 
Attendant  Collector  of  t)eath-duties. 

Their  Highnesses  bowed  and  addressed  .the  Tetrarch:  "...  feli- 
citous wind  ....  day  so  excessively  glorious  ....  wafted 
.  .  .  these  iseles  .  .  .  notwithstanding  not  also  whereof  .  .  .  basilica 
far  exceeding  ....  Ind,  Ormus  ....  Miltonesco  ...  etc  ....  to  say 


The    Little    Review 


nothing  of  the  seven-stopped  barbary  organ  and  the  Tedium  lauda- 

mus etc.  .  .  " 

(Lunch  was  brought  in.) 

Kallipagous  artichokes,  a  light  collation  of  tunny-fish,  aspara- 
gus served  on  pink  reeds,  eels  pearl-grey  and  dove-grey,  gamut  and 
series  of  compotes  and  various  wines  (without  alcohol.) 

Under  impulsion  of  the  Arranger  of  Inanities  the  pomaded 
princes  next  began  their  inspection  of  the  buildings.  A  pneumatic 
lift  hove  them  upward  to  the  outer  rooms  of  Salome's  suite.  The 
lift  door  clicked  on  its  gilt-brass  double  expansion-clamps;  the  pro- 
cession advanced  betAveen  rows  of  wall-facing  negresses  whose  naked 
shoulder-blades  shone  like  a  bronze  of  oily  opacity.  They  entered 
the  hall  of  majolica,  very  yellow  with  thick  blue  incrustations,  glazed 
images,  with  flushed  and  protuberant  faces;  in  the  third  atrium  they 
came  upon  a  basin  of  joined  ivory,  a  white  bath-sponge,  rather  large, 
a  pair  of  very  pink  slippers.  The  next  room  was  littered  with  books 
bound  in  white  vellum  and  pink  satin;  the  next  with  mathematical 
instruments,  hydrostats,  sextants,  astrolabial  discs,  the  model  of  a 

gasolene  motor,  a  nickle-plated  donkey  engine They  proceeded 

up  metal  stairs  to  the  balcony,  from  which  a  rustling  and  swaying 
and  melodiously  enmousselined  figure,  jonquil-coloured  and  delicate, 
preceded  or  rather  predescended  them  by  dumb-waiter,  a  route  which 
they  were  not  ready  to  follow.  The  machine  worked  for  five  floors: 
usage  private  and  not  ceremonial. 

The  pomaded  princes  stood  to  attention  bowed  with  deference 
and  with  gallantry.  The  Arranger  ignored  the  whole  incident,  as- 
cended the  next  flight  of  stairs  and  began  on  the  telescope: 

"Grand  equatorial,  22  yards  inner  tube  length,  revolvable  cu- 
pola (frescoes  in  water-tight  paint)  weight  200,089  kilos,  circulating 
on  fourteen  steel  casters  in  a  groove  of  chloride  of  magnesium,  2  min- 
utes for  complete  revolution.    The  princess  can  turn  it  herself." 

The  princes'  allowed  their  attention  to  wander,  they  noted  their 
ship  beneath  in  the  harbour,  and  calculated  the  drop,  they  then  com- 
pared themselves  with  the  brocaded  and  depileated  denizens  of  the  es- 
cort, after  which  they  felt  safer.  They  were  led  passively  into  the 
Small  Hall  of  Perfumes,  presented  with  protochlorine  of  mercury, 
bismuth  regenerators,  cantharides.  lustral  waters  guaranteed  free 
from  hydrated  lead.  Were  conducted  thence  to  the  hanging  garden. 
The  form  hermetically  enmousselined,  the  jonquil-coloured  gauze 


The    Little    Review 


with  the  pea-sized  dark  spots  on  it,  disappeared  from  the  opposite 
slope,  Molossian  hounds  yapping  and  romping  about  her. 

The  trees  lifted  their  skinned-salmon  trunks,  the  heavy  black- 
ness was  broken  with  a  steely,  metallic  sunshine.  A  sea  wind  purred 
through  the  elongated  forest  like  an  express-train  in  a  tunnel.  Poly- 
chrome statues  obtruded  themselves  from  odd  corners.  An  elephant 
swayed  absentmindedly,  the  zoo  was  loose  all  over  the  place. 

The  keeper  of  the  aquarium  moralized  for  an  hour  upon  the 
calm  life  of  his  fishes.  From  beneath  the  dark  tanks  the  hareem 
sent  up  a  decomposed  odour,  and  a  melancholy  slave  chantey  satu- 
rated the  corridors^  a  low  droning  osmosis.  They  advanced  to  the 
cemetery,  wanting  all  the  time  to  see  Jao. 

This  exhibit  came  at  last  in  its  turn.  They  were  let  down  in  a 
sling-rope  through  a  musty  nitrated  grill,  observing  in  this  descent 
the  ill-starred  European  in  his  bath-robe,  his  nose  in  a  great  fatras 
of  papers  overscrawled  with  illegible  pot-hooks. 

He  rose  at  their  hefty  salutation;  readjusted  his  spectacles, 
blinked;  and  then  it  came  over  him  :  These  damn  pustulent  prin- 
ces! Here!  and  at  last!  Memory  overwhelmed  him.  How  many,  on 
how  many  rotten  December  and  November  evenings  had  he  stopped, 
had  he  not  stopped  in  the  drizzle,  in  the  front  line  of  workmen,  his 
nose  crushed  against  a  policeman,  and  craning  his  scraggy  neck  to  see 
them  getting  out  of  their  state  barouche,  going  up  the  interminable 
front  stairway  to  the  big-windowed  rococo  palace;  he  muttering  that 
the  "Times"  were  at  hand. 

And  now  the  revolution  was  accomplished  .  The  proletariat  had 
deputed  them.  They  were  here  to  howk  him  out  of  quod;  a  mag- 
nificient  action,  a  grace  of  royal  humility,  performed  at  the  will  of 
the  people,  the  new  era  had  come  into  being.  He  saluted  them  au- 
tomatically, searching  for  some  phrase  European,  historic,  fraternal 
of  course,  but  still  noble. 

The  Royal  Nephew,  an  oldish  military  man  with  a  bald-spot, 
ubiquitarian  humorist,  joking  with  everyone  in  season  and  out  (like 
Napoleon),  hating  all  doctrinaires  (like  Napoleon),  was  however  the 
first  to  break  silence  :  "Huk,  heh,  old  sour  bean,  bastard  of  Jean 
Jacques  Rousseau,  this  is  \vhere  you've  come  to  be  hanged?  Eh? 
I'm  damned  if  it  ain't  a  good  thing." 

The  unfortunate  publicist  stiffened. 

"Ideologue!",  said  the  Nephew. 


The    Little    Review 


The  general  strike  had  been  unsuccessful.  Jao  bent  with  emo- 
tion. Tears  showed  in  his  watery  eyes,  slid  down  his  worn  cheek, 
trickled  into  his  scraggy  beard.  There  was  then  a  sudden  change  in 
his  attitude.  He  began  to  murmur  caresses  in  the  gentlest  of  Eu- 
ropean diminutives. 

They  started.  There  was  a  tinkle  of  keys,  and  through  a  small 
opposite  doorway  they  discerned  the  last  flash  of  the  mousseline,  the 
pale,  jonquil-coloured,  blackspotted. 

The  Nephew  readjusted  his  collar.  A  subdued  cortege  reas- 
cended. 

Ill 

The  ivory  orchestra  lost  itself  in  gay  fatalistic  improvisation; 
the  opulence  of  two  hundred  over-fed  tetrarchal  Dining-Companions 
swished  in  the  Evening  salon,  and  overflowed  coruscated  couches. 
They  slithered  through  their  genuflections  to  the  throne.  The  prin- 
ces puffed  out  their  elbows,  simultaneously  attempting  to  disentangle 
their  Collars-of-the-Fleece  in  the  idea  that  these  would  be  a  suitable 
present  for  their  entertainer.  Neither  succeeded;  suddenly  in  the 
midst  of  the  so  elaborate  setting  they  perceived  the  aesthetic  nullity 
of  the  ornament,  its  connotations  were  too  complex  to  go  into. 

The  tetrarchal  children  (superb  productions,  in  the  strictly- 
esoteric  sense)  were  led  in  over  the  jonquil-coloured  reed-matting. 
A  water-jet  shot  up  from  the  centre  of  the  great  table,  and  fell 
plashing  above  on  the  red  and  white  rubber  awning.  A  worn  enter- 
tainment beset  the  diminutive  music-hall  stage:  acrobats,  flower- 
dancers,  contortionists,  comic  wrestlers,  to  save  the  guests  conver- 
sation. A  trick  skater  was  brought  in  on  real  ice,  did  the  split,  en- 
graved a  gothic  cathedral.  The  Virgin  Serpent,  as  she  was  called, 
entered  singing  "Biblis,  Biblis";  she  was  followed  by  a  symbolic 
Mask  of  the  Graces;  which  gave  place  to  trapeze  virtuosi. 

An  horizontal  geyser  of  petals  was  shot  over  the  auditorium. 
The  hookahs  were  brought  in.  Jao  presumably  heard  all  this  over 
his  head.  The  diner's  talk  became  general,  the  princes  supporting 
the  army,  authority,  religion  a  bulwark  of  the  state,  inter-national 
arbitration,  the  perfectability  of  the  race;  the  mandarins  of  the 
palace  held  for  the  neutralization  of  contacts,  initiated  cenacles,  fru- 
gality and  segregation. 

The  music   alone  carried   on   the   esoteric  undertone,   silence 


8  T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Review 

spread  with  great  feathers,  poised  hawk-wise.  Salome  appeared  on 
the  high  landing,  descended  the  twisted  stair,  still  stiff  in  her 
sheath  of  mousseline;  a  small  ebony  lyre  dangled  by  a  gilt  cord 
from  her  wrist;  she  nodded  to  her  parent;  paused  before  the  Alca- 
zar curtain,  balancing,  swaying  on  her  anaemic  pigeon-toed  little 
feet,  until  everyone  had  had  a  good  look  at  her.  She  looked  at  no 
one  in  particular;  her  hair  dusty  with  exiguous  pollens  curled  down 
over  her  narrow  shoulders,  ruffled  over  her  forehead,  with  stems  of 
yellow  flowers  twisted  into  it.  From  the  dorsal  joist  of  her  bodice, 
from  a  sort  of  pearl  matrix  socket  there  rose  a  peacock  tail,  moire, 
azure,  glittering  with  shot  emerald:  an  halo  for  her  marble-white 
face. 

Superior,  graciously  careless,  conscious  of  her  uniqueness,  of 
her  autochthonous  entity,  her  head  cocked  to  the  left,  her  eyes  fer- 
mented with  the  interplay  of  contradictory  expiations,  her  lips  a 
pale  circonflex,  her  teeth  with  still  paler  gums  showing  their  super- 
crucified  half-smile. 

An  exquisite  recluse,  formed  in  the  island  aesthetic,  there  alone 
comprehended.  Hermetically  enmousselined,  the  black  spots  in  the 
fabric  appeared  so  many  punctures  in  the  soft  brightness  of  her 
sheath.  Her  arms  of  angelic  nudity,  the  two  breasts  like  two  minute 
almonds,  the  scarf  twined  just  above  the  adorable  umbilical  groove 
(nature  desires  that  nude  woman  should  be  adorned  with  a  girdle) 
composed  in  a  cup-shaped  embrace  of  the  hips.  Behind  her  the 
peacock  halo,  her  pale  pigeon-toed  feet  covered  only  by  the  watered- 
yellow  fringe  and  by  the  bright-yellow  anklet.  She  balanced,  a  little 
budding  messiah;  her  head  over-weighted;  not  knowing  what  to  do 
with  her  hands.  Her  petticoat  so  simple,  art  long,  very  long,  and 
life  so  very  inextensive.  So  obviously  ready  for  the  cosy-corner,  for 
littte  talks  in  conservatories 

And  she  was  going  to  speak 

The  Tetrarch  bulged  in  his  cushions,  as  if  she  had  already  said 
something.  His  attention  compelled  that  of  the  princes;  he  brushed 
aside  the  purveyor  of  pine-apples. 

She  cleared  her  throat,  laughing,  as  if  not  to  be  taken  too  seri- 
ously, the  sexless,  timbreless  voicelet,  like  that  of  a  sick  child  asking 
for  medicine,  began  to  the  lyre  accompaniment: 

"Canaan,  excellent  nothingness;  nothingness  latent,  circumam- 
bient, about  to  be  the  day  after  tomorrow,  incipient  estimable  absol- 
ving coexistent  ..." 


The    Little    Review 


The  princes  were  puzzled.  "Concessions  by  the  five  senses  to 
an  all-inscribing  affective  insanity;  latitudes,  altitudes,  nebulae,  Me- 
dusae of  gentle  water,  affinities  of  the  ineradicable,  passages  over 
earth  so  eminently  identical  with  incalculably  numerous  dublicates, 
alone  in  indefinite  infinite.  Do  you  take  me?  I  mean  that  the 
pragmatic  essence  attracted  self-ward  dynamically,  but  moi;e  or  less 
in  its  own  volition,  whistling  in  the  bag-pipes  of  the  soul  without 
termination.  But  to  be  natural  passives,  to  enter  into  the  cosmos 
of  harmonics.  Hydrocephalic  theosophies,  act  it,  aromas  of  populace, 
phenomena  without  stable  order,  contaminated  with  prudence.  Fa- 
tal Jordans,  abysmal  Ganges,  to  an  end  with  'em,  insubmersable  si- 
dereal currents,  nurse-maid  cosmogenies." 

She  pushed  back  her  hair,  dusty  with  pollens,  the  soft  hand- 
clapping  began;  her  eyelids  drooped  slightly,  her  faintly-suggested 
breasts  lifted  slightly,  showed  more  rosy  through  the  almond-shaped 
eyelets  of  her  corsage.    She  was  but  fingering  the  ebony  lyre. 

"Bis,  bis,  brava!"  cried  her  audience. 

Still  she  waited. 

"You  shall  whatever  you  like.  Go  on,  my  dear,"  said  the  Tet- 
rarch,  "We  are  all  so  damned  bored.  Go  on  Salome,  you  shall  have 
any  blamed  thing  you  like:  the  Great-Seal,  the  priesthood  of  the 
Snow  Cult,  a  job  in  the  University,  even  to  half  of  my  oil  stock. 
But  inoculate  us  with  .  .  .  eh  .  .  .  with  the  gracious  salve  of  this  cos- 
moconception,  with  this  parthenospotlessness." 

The  company  in  his  wake  exhaled  an  inedited  boredom.  They 
were  all  afraid  of  each  other.  Tiaras  nodded,  but  no  one  confessed 
to  any  difficulty  in  following  the  thread  of  her  argument.  They 
were,  racially,  so  very  correct. 

Salome  wound  on  in  summary  rejection  of  theogenies,  theodices, 
comparative  wisdoms  of  nations  (short  shift,  tone  of  recitative)  . 
Nothing  for  nothing,  perhaps  one  measure  of  nothing.  She  contin- 
ued her  mystic  loquacity:  "O  tides,  lunar  oboes,  avenues,  lawns 
of  twilight,  winds  losing  caste  in  November,  liaymakings,  vocations 
manquees,  expressions  of  animals,  chances." 

Jonquil  coloured  mousselines  with  black  spots,  eyes  fermented, 
smiles  crucified,  adorable  umbilici,  peacock  aureoles,  fallen  carna- 
tions, inconsequent  fugues.  One  felt  reborn,  reinitiate  and  rejuve- 
nate, the  soul  expiring  systematically  in  spirals  across  indubitable 
definitive  showers,  for  the  good  of  earth,  understood  everywhere, 


10  The    Little    Review 


palp  of  Varuna,  air  omniversal,  assured  if  one  were  but  ready. 

Salome  continued  insistently:  "The  pure  state,  I  tell  you,  sectaries 
of  the  consciousness,  why  this  convention  of  separations,  individuals 
by  mere  etiquette,  indivisible?  Breathe  upon  the  thistle-down  of  these 
sciences,  as  you  call  them,  in  the  orient  of  my  pole-star.  Is  it  life 
to  persist  in  putting  oneself  au  courant  with  oneself,  constantly  to 
inspect  oneself,  and  then  queery  at  each  step:  am  I  wrong? 
Species!  Categories!  and  kingdoms,  bah!!  Nothing  is  lost,  noth- 
ing added,  it  is  all  reclaimed  in  advance.  There  is  no  ticket  to  the 
confessional  for  the  heir  of  the  prodigies.  Not  expedients  and  ex- 
piations, but  vintages  of  the  infinite,  not  experimental  but  in  fa- 
tality .  " 

The  little  yellow  vocalist  with  the  black  funereal  spots  broke 
the  lyre  over  her  knee,  and  regained  her  dignity.  The  intoxicated 
crowd  mopped  their  forehads.  An  embarrassing  silence.  The  hy- 
perboreans looked  at  each  other:  "What  time  will  they  put  her  to 
bed?  But  neither  ventured  articulation,  they  did  not  even  inspect 
their  watches.  Tt  couldn't  have  been  later  than  six.  The  slender 
voice  once  more  aroused  them: 

"And  now,  father,  I  wish  you  to  send  me  the  head  of  Jao  Kanan, 
on  any  saucer  you  like.    I  am  going  up-stairs.    I  expect  it." 

"But  .  .  .  but  .  .  my  dear  ....  this  .  .  ".  this  .  .  .  .  "  However 
the  hall  was  vigorously  of  the  opinion  that  the  Tiara  should  accom- 
plish the  will  of  Salome.  Emeraud  glanced  at  the  princes,  who  gave 
sign  neither  of  approbation  nor  of  disapprobation.  The  cage-birds 
again  began  shrieking.    The  matter  was  none  of  their  business. 

Decide! 

The  Tetrarch  threw  his  seal  to  the  Administrator  of  Death. 
The  guests  were  already  up,  changing  the  conversation  on  their,  way 
to  the  evening  tepidarium. 

IV. 

With  her  elbows  on  the  observatory  railing,  Salome,  disliking 
popular  fetes,  listened  to  her  familiar  poluphloisbious  ocean.  Calm 
evening. 

Stars  out  in  full  company,  eternities  of  zeniths  of  embers.  Why 
go  into  exile? 

Salome,  milk-sister  to  the  Via  Lactea,  seldom  lost  herself  in 
constellations.     Thanks  to  photo-spectrum  analysis  the  stars  could 


The    Little    Review  ii 


be  classified  as  to  colour  and  magnitudes;  she  had  tommanded  a  set 
of  diamonds  in  the  proportionate  sizes  to  adorn  nocturnally  her  hair 
and  her  person,  over  mousseline  of  deep  mourning-vioilet  with  gold 
dots  in  the  surface.  Stars  below  the  sixteenth  magnitude  were  not 
be  thought  in  her  world,  she  envisaged  her  twenty-four  millions  of 
subjects. 

Isolated  nebulous  matrices,  not  the  formed  nebulae,  were  her 
passion;  she  ruled  out  planetiform  discs  and  sought  but  unformed, 
perforated,  tentacular.  Orion's  gaseous  fog  was  the  Brother  Benjamin 
of  her  galaxy.  But  she  was  no  more  the  little  Salome,  this  night 
brought  a  change  of  relations.  Exorcised  from  her  virginity  of  tis- 
sue she  felt  peer  to  these  matrices,  fecund  as  they  in  gyratory  evolu- 
tions. But  this  fatal  sacrifice  to  the  cult  (still  happy  in  getting 
out  of  so  discreetly)  had  obliged  her  in  order  to  get  rid  of  her  ini- 
tiator, to  undertake  this  step  (grave  perhaps),  perhaps  homicide. 
Finally  to  assure  silence,  cool  Vv'ater  to  contingent  people.  Elixir  of 
an  hundred  nights'  distillation.    It  must  serve. 

Ah  well,  such  was  her  life.  She  was  a  specialty,  a  minute 
specialite. 

There  on  a  cushion  among  the  debris  of  her  black  ebony  lyre, 
lay  Jao's  head,  like  Orpheus'  head  in  the  old  days,  gleaming,  en- 
crusted with  phospherous,  washed,  anointed,  barbered,  grinning  at 
the  24  million  stars. 

As  soon  as  she  had  got  it,  Salome,  inspired  by  the  true  spirit  of 
research  had  commenced  the  renowned  experiments  after  decolla- 
tion; of  which  we  have  heard  so  much.  She  awaited.  The  electric 
passes  of  her  hypnotic  manual  brought  from  it  nothing  but  inconse- 
quential grimaces. 

She  had  an  idea,  however. 

She  perhaps  lowered  her  eyes,  out  of  respect  to  Orion,  stiffen- 
ing herself  to  gaze  upon  the  nebulae  of  her  puberties for  ten 

minutes.  What  nights,  what  nights  in  the  future!  Who  will  have 
the  last  word  about  it?  Choral  societies,  fire-crackers  down  there 
in  the  city. 

Finally  Salome  shook  herself,  like  a  sensible  person,  reset, 
-readjusted  her  fichu,  took  off  the  grey  gold-spotted  symbol-jewel  of 
Orion,  placed  it  between  Jao's  lips  as  an  host,  kissed  the  lips  pity- 
ingly and  hermetically,  sealed  them  with  corrosive  wax  (a  very 
speedy  procedure). 


The    Little    Review 


Then  with  a  "Bah!"  mutinous,  disappointed,  she  seized  the 
genial  bolco  of  the  late  Jao  Kanan,  in  delicate  feminine  hands. 

As  she  wished  the  head  to  land  plumb  in  the  sea  without 
bounding  upon  the  cliffs,  she  gave  a  good  swing  in  turning.  The 
fragment  described  a  sufficient  and  phosphorescent  parabola,  a  noble 
parabola.  But  unfortunately  the  little  astronomer  had  terribly  mis- 
calculated her  impetus,  and  tripping  over  the  parapet  with  a  cry  fin- 
ally human  she  hurtled  from  crag  to  crag,  to  fall,  shattered,  into 
the  picturesque  anfractuosities  of  the  breakers,  far  from  the  noise  of 
the  national  festival,  lacerated  and  naked,  her  skull  shivered,  paral- 
yzed with  a  vertigo,  in  short,  gone  to  the  bad,  to  suffer  for  nearly  an 
hour. 

She  had  not  even  the  viaticum  of  seeing  the  phosphorescent 
star,  the  floating  head  of  Jao  on  the  water.  And  the  heights  of 
heaven  were  distant. 

Thus  died  Salome  of  the  Isles  (of  the  White  Esoteric  Isles,  in 
especial)  less  from  uncultured  misventure  than  from  trying  to 
fabricate  some  distinction  between  herself  and  everyone  else;  like 
the  rest  of  us. 


BROKEN      NECKS 
Ben    Hecht 

I  STOOD  on  the  corner  that  day  adjusting  certain  important  adjec-. 
tives  in  my  life.  I  had  seen  two  men  hanged  and  it  was  Spring. 
How  the  wine  ran  through  the  little  greedy  half-dead  swarming  in 
the  streets.  Yes,  those  endless,  bobbing  faces  almost  looked  at  each 
other,  almost  smiled  into  each  other's  eyes — insufferable  and  inhuman 
breach  of  democracy.  But  there  was  something  immoral  about  the 
day.  The  music  of  dreams  tugged  at  the  endless  shuffling  feet.  The 
music  of  desires — little  starved  and  fearful  things  come  out  for  a 
moment  in  the  sun  and  wind— piped  vainly  for  dancers.  There  was 
something  vague  and  bewildered  about  the  buildings  and  the  people 
as  if  there  was  a  great  undying  shout  in  the  streets.  What  a  panic 
this  monotonous  return  of  Spring  breeds  among  the  little  half-dead 
as  they  shuffle  and  bob  along  with  a  tingle  in  their  heels  and  a  blind- 
ness come  suddenly  into  their  eyes.     For  it  is  through  the  mists  of 


T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Review  13 

greedy  complacencies  that  the  little  half-dead  are  able  to  pick  their 
steps  with  certainty  and  precision.  Now  comes  this  wine  and  this 
music  and  this  disturbance  as  of  a  great  undying  shout  sweeping  the 
bristling  shafts  of  stone,  and  the  mists  vanish  for  a  moment.  In  the 
blindness  which  falls  upon  them  is  an  undertow  tugging  at  their  feet. 

I  stood  on  the  corner  that  day  observing  how  in  the  spring  the 
bodies  of  women  were  like  the  bodies  of  long,  lithe  animals  prowling 
under  orange  and  lavender,  green  and  torquoise  dresses  and  how  the 
men  with  their  coats  dangling  across  their  arms  were  like  hot  beetles 
that  had  removed  their  shells.  But  as  I  watched  the  endless  faces 
filled  with  half-startled  and  half-placid  confusion,  and  as  I  noted 
what  the  poets  call  the  gayety  of  spring  in  the  hearts  of  men,  there 
came  to  me  out  of  the  swarm  and  roar  of  the  day  the  mockery  which 
it  is  the  duty  of  philosophers  to  hear.  For  I  had  seen  two  men 
hanged  and  had  most  properly  come  away  a  philospher. 

WTiere  was  he  who  might  have  been  crawling  along  the  tread- 
mill of  time  lighted  today  for  another  instant  by  the  spring?  The 
creature  who  had  spat  at  the  cross  on  the  scaffold,  whose  perfect 
tusks  had  grinned  out  of  the  gloom  above  our  heads  an  hour  ago? 
Laughing  in  Hell,  if  death  makes  men  wise.  For  Hell  is  a  place  of 
wise  laughter.     And  the  other  one,  who  had  died  vomiting  terror? 

There  was  a  group  of  us  waiting  patiently  for  the  tall  steel  doors 
of  the  jail  to  open.  Righteous  men  we  were  with  stern  cold  faces 
come  to  transact  with  proper  dignity  certain  grave  business  in  the 
intefest  of  the  little  greedy  half-dead  who  even  here  shuffled  through 
the  streets  with  the  lie  of  Spring  in  their  heels.  And  after  we  had 
been  admitted  and  our  credentials  cunningly  examined,  we  were 
marched  through  barred  corridors  and  told  to  enter  a  door  and  make 
ourselves  comfortable  inside.  Within  this  door  stretched  the  room 
which  was  to  witness  the  hangings.  It  was  a  long  and  narrow  room 
with  towering  walls.  It  could  have  been  built  only  for  one  purpose, 
as  a  room  in  which  to  hang  men.  The  grey  plaster  of  its  walls  was 
unrelieved  by  any  humanizing  design.  They  formed,  these  walls, 
a  geometrical  monotone  unbroken  by  windows  or  doors  except  the 
one  through  which  we  had  entered.    The  floor  was  of  stone. 

Forty  long  benches  such  as  picnickers  use  in  groves,  had  been 
introduced  into  this  vault  of  a  room.  They  seemed  puny  wooden 
toys  under  the  sweep  and  stretch  of  the  towering,  slot  like  walls.  We 
came  walking  slowly  into  the  room.     We  were  doctors,  public  offi- 


14  The    Little    Review 


cials,  jail  attendants  and  newspaper  men.  We  sat  down  on  the 
benches  and  faced  the  gallows. 

The  timber  of  the  gallows  reached  from  the  stone  floor  to  the 
dark,  forgotten  ceiling.  Fifteen  feet  above  the  floor  was  a  platform. 
On  this  platform  the  men  who  were  to  be  hanged  were  to  stand  un- 
til a  part  of  its  floor  which  was  on  hinges  swung  back  and  dropped 
them.  Then  they  would  be  left  dangling  from  the  ropes.  These 
ropes  hung  now  from  a  cross  beam  fifteen  feet  above  the  floor  of 
the  platform.  They  were  two  bright  yellow  manilla  ropes.  Each 
ended  in  a  noose  the  size  of  a  man's  head  .  We  on  the  benches 
stared  with  uncomfortable  eyes  at  these  ropes.  In  the  gloom  our 
faces  floated  like  little  pale  discs  above  the  benches.  The  ends  of 
cigars  and  cigarettes  made  tiny  red  spots  in  the  darkness  and  above 
our  heads  little  grey  and  violet  parasols  of  smoke  opened  -and  van- 
ished. They  were  eager  and  efficient  ropes  and  they  had  per- 
sonality. They  became,  when  we  had  scrutinized  them  for  a  long 
space,  the  strange  and  attenuated  furniture  entirely  suited  to  this 
room.'  About  their  slim  and  elegant  stretch  there  was  something 
monstrous  suggested  .  Things  which  are  sometimes  seen  in  a  fever 
assume  the  grotesque  dimensions  of  these  ropes. 

People  do  not  think  in  these  places.  They  sit  with  their  mouths 
somewhat  parted  and  smoke  cigars  and  nod  politely  to  each  other  as 
they  talk.  They  stare  about  them  as  do  children  in  a  strange  house, 
notinj?  this  and  observing  that.  Indeed,  it  was  not  till  an  hour  later 
that  f  became  a  philosopher  and  found  it  necessary  to  adjust  adjec- 

tives. 

There  were  two  men  on  the  scaffold  platform.  One  was  a  stout 
man  with  snow  colored  hair.  He  was  well  dressed  but  we  noticed 
with  grave  smiles  that  he  seemed  unduly  conscious  of  his  freshly 
shined  patent  leather  shoes.  He  kept  moving  them  about  and  we 
watched  them  closely  like  so  many  cats  in  the  dark  might  watch  two 
bewildered  mice.  At  length  achieving  a  comparative  equanimity 
under  our  gaze,  he  thrust  his  hands  behind  him  and  stood  stiffly  fac- 
ing the  ropes.  '  There  was  nothing  left  to  think  of  about  him  other 
than  that  he  was  fat    The  other  man  was  a  jail  guard. 

Then  we  noticed  simultaneously  a  little  box-like  shack  which 
stood  against  the  plaster  wall  at  the  rear  of  the  gallows'  platform. 
It  was  just  large  enough  to  accommodate  a  man.  We  remarked  in 
stern  sophisticated  whispers  to  each  other  that  the  man  who  sprung 


The    Little    Review  15 

the  trap  under  the  feet  of  the  men  about  to  hang  was  hidden  in  this 
enclosure.  For  a  space  we  stared  at  a  small  circular  window  in  the 
gallows  shack,  diverted  by  banal  speculation.  How  did  this  man 
feel  who  actually  did  the  thing  which  killed  two  men?  As  we  stared 
a  face,  vague  and  dark,  appeared  in  the  little  window  and  then  van- 
ished. We  were  content,  and  here  and  there  in  the  gloom  matches 
were  struck  and  the  faces  of  men  lighting  cigars  remained  in  glowing 
prints  upon  the  dark  air. 

Suddenly,  as  if  greatly  ahead  of  time,  men  started  entering  the 
room  from  the  single  door  at  the  side  of  the  gallows.  Three  public 
officials  walked  first.  Behind  them  walked  two  priests  in  white  and 
purple^  surplices.  Between  the  two  priests  was  a  young  man  with 
a  colorless  face.  He  was  in  his  shirt  sleeves  and  without  a  collar. 
He  looked  as  if  he  had  been  interrupted  washing  dishes.  Following 
these  were  several  jail  guards.  We  did  not  count  their  number. 
Behind  the  guards  walked  two  priests  in  white  and  purple  surplices. 
Between  them  walked  the  second  man.  For  the  first  man  without 
a  collar  who  walked  between  the  two  priests  we  had  no  eyes.  There 
was  about  him  a  lack  of  something  which  made  him  akin  to  us  on 
the  benches.  He  stopped  and  wobbled  and  his  head  rolled  and  from 
his  lips  issued  a  moan. 

"Oh  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ,"  he  said. 

His  lips  as  he  walked  were  peeled  back  in  the  manner  of  a  man 
suffering  from  nausea.  We  did  not  look  long  at  him  .  But  the 
other — we  stared  and  watched  and  forgot  to  puff  on  our  cigars.  He 
was  a  man  with  gaunt  features  and  the  face  of  an  unbarbered  Cae- 
sar, lined  and  hollowed  like  the  wing  of  a  bat.  He  had  a  lean. and 
muscular  neck  and  he  walked  high  shouldered  like  ah  Egyptian. 
To  the  drooping  lines  of  his  mouth  and  chin  clung  a  dark  curling 
covering  of  hair  like  the  beard  on  the  paintings  of  the  adolescent 
Christ.  He  walked  with  his  jaw  thrust  forward,  lean  and  hollow 
jaws  like  the  jaws  of  a  starving  monk.  His  eyes,  round  and  black, 
nestled  deep  in  his  head,  black  and  burning  like  the  eyes  of  a  voodoo 
priest. 

We  watched  this  man  and  moved  about  on  Our  benches.  We 
knew  his  name  and  the  deeds  he  h^d  done  in  the  world.  He  had 
moved  among  the  little  greedy  half-dead  with  altogether  curious  in- 
spirations. At  night  he  had-  flattened  himself  against  dark  alley 
walls  and  waited  with  a  gun  in  his  hand  for  men  to  approach  him. 


i6  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 


and  he  had  gone  prowling  after  them  like  a  stoical  coyote  crept  into 
the  city  out  of  the  darkness  beyond.  Thus  he  had  grown  rich  and 
careless  and  taken  to  darting  through  the  streets  by  day  as  he  had 
done  by  night.  In  the  sun  there  came  into  his  heart  a  joyous  hate 
which  had  misguided  him.  It  caused  him  finally  to  stand  upon  a 
street  corner  shouting  and  shooting  into  the  swarm  of  things  about 
him  until  the  street  grew  lonely  and  strangely  rid  of  all  sounds  but 
the  whoop  of  his  voice  and  the  little  bark  of  his  gun.  It  was  very 
sad,  for  the  little  heaped  figures  that  lay  strewn  in  the  emptied  street 
might  have  been  our  wives  and  our  mothers.  Eventually  a  tall  red- 
faced  man  bristling  with  gold  buttons,  pounced  upon  him  from  the 
rear  and  held  him  as  he  continued  to  shout  and  wave  a  useless  gun 
toward  the  high  roofs  of  the  crowd  d  buildings. 

Here  he  was  walking  up  the  slim  wooden  stairs  that  lead  to 
the  gallows  platform,  and  here  he  was  standing  under  the  looped  rope 
that  dangled  at  his  eaj-  and  beside  another  man  who  continued  to 
moan,  "My  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  forgive  me.  Forgive  us  all."  But 
we  did  not  look  at  this  one.  The  platform  was  now  crowded  with 
men  but  we  did  not  look  at  them.  They  came  forward  with  long 
black  straps  and  proceeded  to  bind  the  man  who  was  moaning. 
Then  a  priest  came  forward  and  stood  beside  the  man  who  was 
moaning  and  rested  an  ivory  crucifix  upon  his  lips  and  opened  a  book 
under  his  rolling  eyes.  But  our  eyes,  held  as  by  some  vast  thing 
about  to  happen,  that  will  any  minute  happen,  remained  upon  the 
gaunt,  unbarbered  face  with  its  Christ-like  beard,  with  the  mystic 
snarl  in  its  eyes,  of  the  man  who  stood  under  the  other  rope.  An  in- 
explicable fascination  held  our  eyes  upon  him.  And  under  our  un- 
blinking stares  he  grew  and  grew  and  became  lopsided  and  out  of 
focus  and  the  features  of  his  face  swam  apart  into  the  grimace  of  a 
man  laughing. 

Then  our  eyes  cleared  and  we  saw  that  his  arms  were  strapped 
flat  against  his  sides  and  his  legs  strapped  tightly  together  at  the  an- 
kles and  the  knees,  and  that  a  priest  in  a  white  and  purple  surplice 
with  a  startled  fkce  was  offering  an  ivory  crucifix  for  him  to  kiss.  We 
watched  him  look  at  the  crucifix,  his  eyes  becoming  filled  with  ydllow 
lights;  and  watched  his  lips  peel  back  and  the  teeth,  exaggerated  in 
their  nakedness,  shine  in  a  grin.  Suddenly  he  closed  his  mouth  and 
spat  at  the  crucifix.  Beside  him  the  man  under  the  rope  was  moaning 
"Oh  my  Creator.    Let  me  see.    Let  me  see."    And  his  head  wab- 


The    Little    Review  17 

bled  toward  the  opened  book  the  priest  in  front  of  him  held  to  his 
eyes. 

Of  this  we  were  conscious  in  an  uninterested  way.  For  a  man 
had  spat  upon  a  crucifix  and  there  was  that  in  us  which  made  us  lower 
our  heads  and  tremble  and  move  uneasily.  Other  men  stepped  for- 
ward on  the  gallows  platform  and  hung  long  white  robes  upon  the 
two  under  the  ropes.  The  robes  fastened  in  a  pucker  about  their 
necks  and  fell  to  the  floor  and  were  fastened  in  another  pucker  about 
their  ankles.  Then  a  man  with  unbelievable  gestures  slipped  the 
rope  over  the  head  of  the  moaning  one  and  drew  the  noose  tight  with 
unbelievable  little  jerks  so  that  the  knot  fell  under  the  man's  ear. 

"Oh  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  my  Jesus  Christ,  forgive  me.  Forgive 
us  all"  moaned  the  man,  his  face  almost  vanishing  in  the  gloom. 

About  the  neck  of  the  other  whom  we  were  watching,  as  men 
watching  something  about  to  explode,  the  second  rope  was  fi.xed  and 
jerked  into  place.  And  then  a  voice  shot  from  the  platform.  It 
came  from  the  blur  and  flurry  of  men  grouped  behind  the  ropes, 

"Have  you  anything  to  say?"  it  inquired. 

A  cry  answered  from  the  one  who  was  moaning.  His  words 
blurred  and  buzzing  filled  the  room.  "Oh  my  Creator,  my  Creator," 
he  sang.    "I  am  going  to  my  Creator." 

And  the  man  with  the  face  that  was  lined  and  hollowed  like  the 
wing  of  a  bat  remained  silent,  gazing  with  his  glowing  eyes  down 
upon  our  heads.  In  his  puckered  white  robe  he  loomed  out  of  the 
gloom  like  some  grotesque  and  stoical  sage  in  masquerade,  except  for 
his  teeth  which  were  bared  and  swimming  in  saliva.  The  faces 
above  the  ropes  remained  visible  for  several  instants.  Two  men 
bearing  white  masks  then  approached  them.  The  one  who  moaned 
was  rolling  his  eyes  up  and  down  the  towering  gloomy  walls  as  if 
in  frantic,  helpless  search.  The  other  was  staring  down  upon  us  in 
a  strange,  disinterested  manner,  his  lips  peeling  back,  his  jaws  thrust- 
ing forward.  He  drew  a  long  breath  and  then  vanished  behind  the 
white  mask  with  a  secret  in  hi5j,eyes. 

Both  men  had  disappeared.  There  were  to  be  seen  only  two 
long  white  bundles  curiously  shapeless.  We  were  silent.  The  moan- 
ing of  the  man  who  had  kissed  the  crucifix  suddenly  resumed.  It  filled 
the  room  .  It  came  louder  and  louder  from  the  depths  of  the  long 
white  bundle,  crawling  over  us  and  along  the  towering  walls  that  had 
no  windows.    From  the  other  white  bundle  came  silence.    The  feet 


i8  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

under  it  stared  at  us  without  movement.  The  moaning  burst  into 
words — "Oh  My  Creator" — and  was  lost  in  a  crash.  The  trap  had 
banged  down, 

A  great  swaying  howl  rolled  into  the  vault-like  room  .  It  swept 
like  a  curtain  between  us  and  the  two  white  bundles  that  had  shot 
through  the  trap.  The  two  men  were  hanging.  The  howling  came 
from  the  prisoners  in  the  cells  beyond  in  the  jail,  howling  like  the 
sustained  cry  of  an  army  out  of  a  wilderness.  The  two  white  bun- 
dles that  were  hanging,  stirred.  One  of  them  turned  slightly,  with  a 
certain  idleness.  The  other  began  to  expand  and  contract.  A  cur- 
ious animation  gradually  took  possession  of  it.  Several  minutes 
passed  and  the  white  bundles  continued  to  bob  and  twitch.  The  one 
to  the  left  which  contained  the  man  who  had  moaned  began  now  to 
throb  and  quiver  like  a  plucked  and  vibrating  violin  string.  The 
rope  above  it  hummed,  filling  the  room  with  the  whang  of  its  mono- 
tone. The  other  bundle  remained  turning  idly.  A  large  group  of  men 
had  risen  from  the  benches  in  front.  Several  of  them  held  black 
stethescopes  in  their  hands.    They  waited. 

The  rest- of  us  stood  to  our  feet.  There  was  silence  and  the 
moments  passed  with  our  eyes  unwavering.  The  two  bundles 
seemed  mysteriously  wound  up  as  if  they  would  go  on  turning  idly 
forever.  Then  they  began  to  act  as  if  someone  were  trying  to  blow 
them  up  from  inside.  Between  the  masks  and  the  puckered  tops  of 
the  white  robes  the  necks  of  the  two  men  hanging  within  the  bun- 
dles became  visible.  Suddenly  the  turning  ceased  and  the  two  bun- 
dles began  to  behave  as  if  someone  were  jerking  with  an  amazing 
violence  on  the  ropes  which  supported  them  in  mid  air.  They  ex- 
ecuted a  frenzied  and  staccato  jig. 

The  bundles  hung  motionless  at  the  ends  of  the  two  ropes,  limp 
dead  banners  out  of  which  the  wind  had  died.  A  physician  remov- 
ing the  stethescope  from  his  ears  said  something  that  ended  with  the 
words,  "twelve  minutes."  A  second  physician  repeated  what  he  had 
said. 

We  crowded  forward  from  the  benches,  gathering  about  the 
two  figures  which  had  dropped  their  white  robes  .  They  were  no 
longer  interesting.  A  certain  fascination  had  gone  out  of  them,  out 
of  the  ropes,  out  of  the  tall,  spectral  timbers  of  the  gallows.  We 
passed  them  a  few  minutes  later  on  our  way  out  of  the  door.  They 
were  lying  on  two  wheel  cots.    Their  masks  had  been  removed  and 


The    Little    Review  19 

their  faces  colored  like  stained  glass  watched  us  with  mouths 
opened  . 

I  had  forgotten  my  hat.  We  had  moved  into  the  lobby  of  the 
jail  and  I  hurried  back  after  my  hat.  I  stood  for  a  moment  gazing 
at  the  towering  grey  walls,  the  wood  structure,  the  two  strands  of 
rope  that  dropped  from  the  beam.  They  had  been  cut.  There  was 
no  one  in  the  room.  I  seized  my  hat  which  was  on  a  bench  and  ran 
awkwardly  after  the  men  who  had  gone.  Outside  a  man  with  a  sharp 
beard  said  to  me,  shaking  his  head, 

"Well,  that  boy  died'  game,  didn't  he?" 

The  man  was  drawing  deep  breaths  and  looked  about  him  be- 
wilderedly  in  the  sunny  street. 

I  walked  on  until  I  came  to  the  corner  where  the  necessity  of 
adjusting  certain  important  adjectives  in  my  life  caused  me  to  stop. 
Up  and  down  the  street  swarmed  the  endless  faces  of  the  little 
greedy  half-dead,  lighted  for  a  moment  by  the  great  sun.  And  hav- 
ing completed  my  philosophy,  and  because  it  was  on  this  corner  the 
gaunt  and  hollow-faced  one  had  once  stood,  his  heart  filled  with  a 
joyous  hate  shouting  at  the  buildings,  I  laughed  and  spat  and  eyed 
a  woman  whose  body  was  like  the  body  of  a  long  lithe  animal  prowl- 
ing under  a  lavender  and  turquoise  dress. 


Nishi      Hongwanji 
Iris  Barry 

Silence  holds  the  stage. 

Neither  brocade  nor  masks  remain, 

Fate  has  dispersed  those  rich  garments 

and  the  fine  carvings  of  experts 

are  sprinkled  abroad  and  gone 

like  autumn  leaves  stripped  away. 

The  drama  itself  is  almost  forgotten, 

the  names  of  the  players 

and  of  the  plays 

no  more  thought  on  than  last  year's  seed 

flung  wide  and  flowered  in  strange  places. 


20  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

SIX  ILLUMINATIONS  OF  RIMBAUD 

Translated  by  Helen  Rootham 

Vagabonds 

PITIFUL  brother!  What  atrocious  vigils  I  owe  to  him.  "I  did 
not  take  this  enterprise  in  hand  seriously.  I  made  sport  of  his 
infirmity.  It  would  be  my  fault  if  we  returned  into  exile  and  slav- 
ery." He  attributed  a  strange  bad  luck  and  a  strange  innocence 
to  me,  and  added  disquieting  reasons.  I  replied  jeeringly  to  this  Sa- 
tanic doctor,  and  finished  by  escaping  through  the  window.  Far 
beyond  this  country  (swept  by  wandering  melodies),  I  created  phan- 
toms of  a  nocturnal  luxury  to  come. 

After  this  distraction — partly  hygienic — I  stretched  myself  on 
a  straw  mattress.  And  nearly  every  night,  as  soon  as  he  was  asleep 
my  poor  brother  rose,  his  mouth  all  leprous-stained,  his  eyes  torn  out, 
— for  so  he  dreamed  himself  to  be! — and  drew  me  into  the  room 
howling  out  his  idiot  nightmare. 

In  all  sincerity  I  had  promised  to  restore  him  to  his  primitive 
state  of  "Child  of  the  Sun", — and  so  we  wander,  (drinking  Paler- 
mian  wine  and  eating  tramp's  biscuits,)  I  in  haste  to  find  the  neces- 
sary spot  and  the  necessary  formulia. 

Toilers 

It  is  a  hot  February  morning.  An  inopportune  south  wind 
raises  memories  of  our  absurd  indigence,  our  youthful  poverty .  — 
Henrika  was  wearing  a  brown  and  white  check  cotton  dress  in  the 
fashion  of  last  century,  a  bonnet  trimmed  with  ribbons,  and  a  silk 
handkerchief  round  her  neck.  It  was  more  sombre  than  mourning . 
We  were  taking  a  walk  in  the  suburbs;  the  weather  was  oppressive, 
and  the  south  wind  disturbed  all  the  evil  odours  of  the  ravaged 
gardens  and  the  dried-up  fields. 

Evidently  all  this  did  not  tire  my  wife  as  it  tired  me.  The 
floods  of  the  preceding  month  had  left  a  shallow  pool  behind  them 


The    Little    Review  21 

near  the  path  up  which  we  were  climbing,  and  my  wife  called  my 
attention  to  some  tiny  fish  swimming  in  it. 

The  town,  with  its  smoke  and  the  noises  of  its  factories,  seemed 
to  follow  us  far  along  the  roads.  O,  where  is  that  other  world,  that 
habitation  blessed  by  heaven?  Where  are  those  gentle  shades?  The 
south  wind  recalled  the  miserable  incidents  of  my  childhood,  my  des- 
pair in  summer,  the  horrible  amount  of  strength  and  knowledge 
that  fate  has  always  put  out  of  my  reach.  No,  we  will  not  spend  the 
summer  in  this  niggardly  country  where  we  shall  never  be  anything 
but  two  betrothed  orphans.  This  muscular  arm  shall  no  longer  drag 
about  a  loved  image. 

The  skies  are  like  grey  crystal.  I  see  a  strange  design  of 
bridges, —  some  straight,  some  curved,  others  descending  slantingly 
on  to  the  first.  They  multiply  themselves  in  the  smooth  windings  of 
the  canal,  but  are  so  long  and  light  that  the  canal  banks,  covered 
with  domes,  seem  to  sink  and  grow  less.  Some  of  these  bridges  are 
still  encumbered  with  hovels;  on  others  are  masts,  sienals  and  frail 
naranets.  Stringed  instruments  are  heard  on  the  hills,  and  minor 
chords  cross  each  other  and  disappear;  a  red  coat  can  be  seen, — 
nerhan?  other  costumes  and  musical  instruments.  Are  they  Dlaymtr 
nnnnlar  airs,  odds  and  ends  from  courtly  concerts,  or  snatches  of 
D'lblir  hvmns? 

Thp  •'■"fltpr  is  erpv  and  blue,  and  as  wide  as  nn  arm  of  the  sp«'. 

A  white  ray  of  sunshine  falling  from  heaven  destroys  the  il- 
lusion. 

Devotion 

To  my  sister  Louise  Vanaen  de  Voringhem:— her  blue  mob-cap 
shaped  like  the  North  Sea  . — For  the  shipwrecked  . 

To  my  sister  Leonie  d'Ashby,  Baon  and  the  buzzing  evil- 
smelling  summer  grass  . —  For  the  fever  which  attacks  mothers 
and  children  . 

To  Lulu — demon — who  has  retained  a  mi.ssish  and  imperfectly 
educated  taste  in  oratories  .     For  men. 

To  Madame To  the  youth  I  once  was  .     To  this  holy 

old  man  of  the  hermitage  or  the  mission  .    To  a  clerical  dignitary  . 

Also  to  every  cult  which  finds  itself  in  such  places  and  in  such 


22  The    Little     Review 


circumstances  as  are  proper  to  our  aspirations  of  the  moment,  or  to 
OUT  own  special  vice  . 

This  evening,  Devotion  to  Circeto  of  the  tall  mirrors,  fat  as  a 
fish  and  glowing  like  the  ten  months  of  the  red  night  —  (her  heart 
is  amber  and  musk)  —  for  my  one  prayer,  mute  as  these  regions  of 
night;  my  prayer  which  precedes  acts  of  prowess  more  violent  than 
this  polar  chaos.. 

Devotion  at  any  cost  and  in  any  shape,  even  in  my  metaphysical 
wanderings,  —  But  even  more  then  .... 


Soir  Historiaue 

One  evening  a  naive  tourist  (retired  from  our  economic  hor- 
rors) hears  the  hand  of  a  master  touching  the  harpsichord  of  the 
meadows.  Cards  are  being  played  at  the  bottom  of  the  lake,  that 
mirror  which  evokes  images  of  queens  and  of  passing  loves.  There 
where  the  sun  is  setting,  saints  and  nuns  can  be  seen,  threads  of  har- 
mony and  legendary  scales  can  be  heard. 

The  passing  of  huntsmen  and  of  bands  of  people  makes  him  trem- 
ble. Comedy  distills  itself  on  the  grassy  trestles.  The  poor  and  the 
feeble  overcrowd  these  senseless  plans. 

Before  his  slave's  vision  Germany  seems  to  pile  herself  up 
towards  the  moon;  the  tartar  deserts  grow  light;  ancient  seditions 
stir  and  mutter  in  the  heart  of  the  Celestial  Empire .  Ascending 
rocky  staircases  and  seated  in  chairs  of  stone,  the  little  pale,  flat- 
faced  peoples  of  Africa  and  the  west  are  improving  their  minds. 
There  are  sea-ballets,  and  ballets  of  the  night,  and  impossible  mel- 
odies. 

There  is  the  same  bourgeois  magic  at  every  place  where  the 
magic  carpet  sets,  us  down.  The  most  elementary  physician  feels  that 
it  is  no  longer  possible  to  submit  to  this  atmosphere  of  egoism  — 
haze  of  a  physical  remorse  —  the  existence  of  which  it  is  painful 
even  to  acknowledge.  No,  it  is  the  time  of  steaming  vapours,  of 
heaving  seas,  of  subterranean  conflagrations,  of  planets  swept  away 
and  subsequent  exterminations:- — certainties  not  very  cleverly  hinted 
at  in  the  Bible  and  by  the  Nornes,  and  which  it  will  be  given  to 
some  serious-minded  person  to  watch  over. 

Nevertheless  there  will  be  no  legendary  effect! 


The     Little     Review 


23 


Promontory 

Golden  dawn  and  trembling  eve  find  our  brig  in  the  open 
sea  opposite  th's  villa,  which  with  its  dependencies  forms  a 
promontory  as  extensive  as  Epirus  or  the  Peloponese,  Japan  or 
Arabia.  There  are  shrines  illumined  by  the  presence 

of  a  revived  speculation;  there  are  immense  views  of  the  defences 
of  a  modern  coast,  and  sand-hills  gay  with  glowing  flowers 
and  bacchanales.  There  are  grand  canals  from  Carthage,  em- 

bankments from  a  squinteycd,  skulking,  ambiguous  Venice,  languid 
eruption  of  Etna,  crevases  from  which  burst  flowers  and 
water,    and    glaciers.  There    are    wash-houses    surrounded 

by  German  poplars,  strange  undulating  parks,  and  circular 
fences  in  the  style  of  the  "Royal"  or  the  "Grand"  of 
some  Brooklyn;  railways  overhead ,  railways  underground, 
and  level  railways,  intersecting,  honeycombing,  and  dark- 
ening the  grounds  of  this  hotel  which  resembles  the  most  ele- 
gant and  the  most  colossal  structures  known  to  the  history  of  Italy, 
America  and  Asia.  The  windows  and  terraces  filled  with 

brilliant  lights,  expensive  beverages,  and  'luxurious  breezes,  respond 
to  the  taste  of  travellers  who  permit  the  whim  of  the  moment  and 
the  vagaries  of  fashionable  art,  to  decorate  the  facades  of  the  "Royal 
Promontory  Hotel." 

TheStage 

Ancient  Comedy  keeps  to  her  harmonies  and  divides  her  idylls: 
— boulevards  of  trestles, — a  long  column  of  wood  from  one  end  of 
a  rocky  field  to  another,  wnere  a  barbaric  crowd  winds  amongst 
leafless  trees, — in  corridors  of  black  gauze,  keeping  step  with  strol- 
lers carrying  lanterns  and  leaves. 

Bird  actors  alight  on  a  pontoon  of  masonry  swaying  in  an 
archipelago  dotted  with  boat-loads  of  spectators.  Lyrical  scenes,  ac- 
companied by  flutes  and  drums,  lean  round  the  rooms  of  modern 
clubs  or  the  halls  of  the  ancient  East,  from  nooks  contrived  in  the 
ceiling. 

Fairy-land  manoeuvres  at  the  top  of  a  coppice-crowned  amphi- 
theatre or  flutters  about  and  warbles  for  the  Boeotians  in  the  shade 


24  T h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

of  moving  forests,  or  on  the  tilled  ridges. 

Opera-bouffe  divides  itself  on  our  stage  at  the  intersecting 
ridge  made  by  ten  partitions  erected  at  the  early  door  of  the  gallery. 

SEEDS 

Sherwood    Anderson 

THERE  was  a  Doctor  from  Johns  Hopkins  talked  to  me  one  day 
last  summer  concerning  modern  life  and  its  universal  insan- 
ity. He  was  a  small  man  with  a  beard  and  was  very  nervous.  I  re- 
member how  the  cords  of  his  neck  were  drawn  taut. 

The  Doctor  with  his  tight  drawn  nerves  and  a  peculiar  eagei 
sadness  in  his  bearing  sat  beside  me  late  one  afternoon  on  the  steps 
of  a  farm  house  by  a  lake  in  the  mountains.  He  talked  of  his  work. 
For  years  he  had  been  trying  to  cure  people  of  illness  by  the  method 
called  psychoanalysis.  The  idea  was  the  passion  of  his  life  .  "I 
came  here  because  I  am  tired,"  he  said  dejectedly.  "My  body  is 
not  tired  but  something  inside  me  is  old  and  worn-out.  I  want  joy. 
For  a  few  days  or  weeks  I  would  like  to  forget  men  and  women  and 
the  influences  that  make  them  the  sick    things  they  are." 

The  man's  voice  became  tense  and  shrill.  There  is  a  note  that 
comes  into  the  human  voice  by  which  you  may  know  real  weariness. 
It  comes  to  the  writer  when  he  has  been  trying  with  all  his  heart 
and  soul  to  think  his  way  along  some  difficult  road  of  thought.  Of 
a  sudden  he  finds  himself  unable  to  go  on.  Something  within  him 
stops.  A  tiny  explosion  takes  place.  He  bursts  into  words  and 
talks,  perhaps  foolishly  .  Little  side  currents  of  his  nature  he  didn't 
know  run  out  and  get  themselves  expressed.  It  is  at  such  times  that 
a  man  boasts,  uses  big  words,  makes  a  fool  of  himself  in  general. 
Much  of  literature  has  been  written  on  the  shrill  high  plane  on  which 
these  explosions  take  place  and  I  suspect  most  of  our  poetry. 

And  so  it  was  that  the  doctor  became  shrill.  He  jumped  up 
from  'the  steps  and  walked  about.  "You  go  on  quietly"  he  said, 
turning  to  look  at  me.  'T  can  feel  it  in  you.  Yon  come  from  the 
West  .  You  have  kept  away  from  people.  You  have  preserved 
yourself — damn  you.     I  haven't  — "  His  voice  had  indeed  be- 

come shrill.    "I  have  entered  into  lives.     I  have  gone  beneath  the 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  2$ 

surface  of  the  lives  of  men  and  women.    Women  especially  I  have 
studied — ^our  own  women,  here  in  America." 

"You  have  loved  them?"  I  suggested.  "Perhaps  that's  your 
trouble.    That  is  sometimes  the  trouble." 

"Yes,"  he  said  more  quietly.  "Yes — you  are  right  there,  I  have 
done  that.  It  is  the  only  way  I  can  get  at  things.  I  have  to  try  to 
love.  You  see  how  that  is?  It  is  the  only  way.  Love  must  be  the 
beginning  of  things  with  me.    There  is  understanding  in  that." 

He  was  irritated  and  I  began  to  sense  the  depths  of  his  weari- 
ness. "Let's  not  talk  of  the  matter"  I  urged.  "We  will  go  swim  in 
the  lake," 

''I  don't  want  to  swim  or  do  any  plodding  thing,    I  want  to 
run  and  shout,"  he  declared.    "For  awhile,  for  a  few  hours,  I  want 
to  be  like  a  dead  leaf  blown  by  the  winds  over  these  hills.    I  have 
one  desire  and  one  only — to  free  myself." 

We  walked  in  a  dusty  country  road.  I  wanted  him  to  know  that 
I  thought  I  understood  so  I  put  the  case  in  my  own  way  .  "Let  me 
state  the  matter  quite  honestly."  I  began,  "I  want  to  abuse  you  a 
little." 

When  he  stopped  and  stared  at  me  I  went  on.  "You  are  no 
more  and  no  better  than  myself,"  I  declared.  "You  are  a  dog  that 
has  rolled  in  offal  and  because  you  are  not  quite  a  dog  you  do  not 
like  the  smell  of  your  own  hide." 

In  turn  my  voice  became  shrill.  "You  blind  fool,"  I  cried  im-' 
patiently.  "Men  like  you  are  fools.  You  cannot  go  along  that 
road.    It  is  given  to  no  man  to  venture  far  along  the  road  of  lives." 

I  became  passionately  in  earnest.  "The  illness  you  pretend  to 
cure  is  the  universal  illness,"  I  said.  "The  thing  you  want  to  do 
cannot  be  done.    Fool — do  you  expect  love  to  be  understood?" 

We  stood  in  the  dusty  road  and  looked  at  each  other.  The 
suggestion  of  a  sneer  played  about  the  corners  of  his  mouth.  He 
put  a  hand  on  my  shoulder  and  shook  me.  "How  smart  we  are! 
How  aptly  we  put  things." 

He  spat  the  words  out  and  then  turned  and  walked  a  little 
away.  "You  think  you  understand  but  you  don't  understand,"  he 
cried.  "What  you  say  can't  be  done  can  be  done.  You  are  a  liar. 
You  cannot  be  so  definite  without  missing  something  vague  and  fine. 
You  miss  the  whole  point.  The  lives  of  people  are  like  young  trees 
in  a  forest.  They  are  being  choked  by  climbing  vines.  The  vines 
are  old  thoughts  and  beliefs  planted  by  dead  men.    I  am  myself  cov- 


26  The    Little    Review 


ered  by  crawling  creeping  vines  that  choke  me." 

He  laughed  bitterly.  "And  that's  why  I  want  to  run  and  play" 
he  said.  "I  want  to  be  a  leaf  blown  by  the  wind  over  hills.  I  want 
to  die  and  be  bom  again  and  I  am  only  a  tree  covered  with  vines 
and  slowly  dying.  I  am,  you  see,  weary  and  want  to  be  made  clean. 
I  am  an  amateur  venturing  timidly  into  lives,"  he  concluded.  "I 
am  weary  and  want  to  be  made  clean.    I  am  covered  by  creeping, 

crawling  things." 

*        *        ♦        * 

There  was  a  woman  from  Iowa  came  here  to  Chicago  and  took 
a  room  in  a  house  on  the  west-side.  She  was  about  twenty-seven 
years  old  and  ostensibly  she  came  to  the  city  to  study  advanced 
methods  for  teaching  music. 

A  certain  young  man  lived  in  the  west-side  house  with  her.  His 
room  faced  a  long  hall  on  the  second  floor  of  the  house  and  the  one 
taken  by  the  woman  was  across  the  hall  facing  his  room. 

In  regard  to  the  young  man — there  is  something  very  sweet  in 
his  nature.  He  is  a  painter  but  I  have  often  wished  he  would  de- 
cide to  become  a  writer.  He  tells  things  with  understanding  and  he 
does  not  paint  brilliantly  . 

And  so  the  woman  from  Iowa  lived  in  the  west-side  house  and 
came  home  from  the  city  in  the  evening.  She  looked  like  a  thous- 
and other  women  one  sees  in  the  streets  every  day.  The  only  thing 
that  at  all  made  her  stand  out  among  the  women  in  the  crowds  was 
that  she  was  a  little  lame.  Her  right  foot  was  slightly  deformed  and 
she  walked  with  a  limp.  For  three  months  she  lived  in  the  house — 
where  she  was  the  only  woman  except  the  landlady — and  then  a' 
feeling  in  regard  to  her  began  to  grow  up  among  the  men  of  the 
house. 

The  men  all  said  the  same  thing  concerning  her.  When  they 
met  in  the  hall-way  at  the  front  of  the  house  they  stopped,  laughed 
and  whispered  .  "She  wants  a  lover"  they  said  and  winked.  "She 
may  not  know  it  but  a  lover  is  what  she  needs." 

One  knowing  Chicago  and  Chicago  men  would  think  that  an 
easy  want  to  be  satisfied.  I  laughed  when  my  friend — ^whose  name 
is  LeRoy — told  me  the  story,  but  he  did  not  laugh.  He  shook  his 
head.  "It  wasn't  so  easy"  he  said.  "There  would  be  no  story  were 
the  matter  that  simple." 

Le  Roy  tried  to  explain.    Whenever  a  man  approached  her  she 


The    Little    Review  27 

became  alarmed,"  he  said.  "Men  kept  smiling  and  speaking  to  her. 
They  invited  her  to  dinner  and  to  the  theatre  but  nothing  would  in- 
duce her  to  walk  in  the  streets  with  a  man.  She  never  went  into  the 
streets  at  night.  When  a  man  stopped  and  tried  to  talk  with  her  in 
the  hallway  she  turned  her  eyes  to  the  floor  and  then  ran  into  her 
room.  Once  a  young  drygoods  clerk  who  lived  there  induced  her  to 
sit  with  him  on  the  steps  before  the  house. 

He  was  a  sentimental  fellow  and  took  hold  of  her  hand.  When 
she  began  to  cry  he  was  alarmed  and  arose.  He  put  a  hand  on  her 
shoulder  and  tried  to  explain  but  under  the  touch  of  his  fingers  her 
v;hole  body  shook  with  terror.  "Don't  touch  me,"  she  cried. 
"Don't  let  your  hands  touch  me."  She  began  to  scream  and  people 
passing  in  the  street  stopped  to  listen.  The  drygoods  clerk  was 
alarmed  and  ran  upstairs  to  his  own  room.  He  bolted  the  door  and 
stood  listening.  "It  is  a  trick,"  he  declared  in  a  trembling  voice. 
"She  is  trying  to  make  trouble.  I  did  nothing  to  her.  It  was  an 
accident  and  anyway  what  is  the  matter?  I  only  touched  her  arm 
with  my  fingers." 

Perhaps  a  dozen  times  LeRoy  has  spoken  to  me  of  the  exper- 
ience of  the  Iowa  woman  in  the  west-side  house.  The  men  there  be- 
gan to  hate  her.  Although  she  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  them 
she  would  not  let  them  alone.  In  a  hundred  ways  she  continually 
invited  approaches  that  when  made  she  repelled.  When  she  stood 
naked  in  the  bathroom  facing  the  hallway  where  the  men  passed  up 
and  down  she  left  the  door  slightly  ajar.  There  was  a  couch  in  the 
living  room  down  stairs  and  when  men  were  present  she  would  some- 
times enter  and  without  saying  a  word  throw  herself  down  before 
them.  On  the  couch  she  lay  with  lips  drawn  slightly  apart.  Her 
eyes  stared  at  the  ceiling.  Her  whole  physical  being  seemed  to  be 
waiting  for  something.  The  sense  of  her  filled  the  room.  The  men 
standing  about  pretended  not  to  see.  They  talked  loudly.  Embar- 
rassment took  possession  of  them  and  one  by  one  they  crept  quietly 
away. 

One  evening  the  woman  was  ordered  to  leave  the  house.  Some- 
one, perhaps  the  drygoods  clerk,  had  talked  to  the  landlady  and  she 
acted  at  once.  "If  you  leave  tonight  I  shall  like  it  that  much  bet- 
ter," LeRoy  heard  the  elder  woman's  voice  saying.  She  stood  in 
the  hallway  before  the  Iowa  woman's  room.  The  landlady's  voice 
rang  through  the  house. 


28  The     Little     Review 


LeRoy  the  pahiter  is  tall  and  lean  and  his  life  has  been  spent 
in  devotion  to  ideas.  The  passions  of  h's  brain  have  consumed  the 
passions  of  his  body.  His  income  is  small  and  he  has  not  married. 
Perhaps  he  has  never  had  a  sweetheart.  He  is  not  without  physical 
desire  but  he  is  not  primarily  concerned  with  desire. 

On  the  evening  when  the  Iowa  woman  was  ordered  to  leave  the 
west-side  house  she  waited  until  she  thought  the  landlady  had  gone 
downstairs,  and  then  went  into  LeRoy's  room.  It  was  about  eight 
o'clock  and  he  sat  by  a  window  reading  a  book.  The  woman  did 
not  knock  but  opened  the  door.  She  said  nothing  but  ran  across  the 
floor  and  knelt  at  h's  feet.  LeRoy  said  that  her  twisted  foot  made 
her  run  like  a  wounded  bird,  that  her  eyes  were  burning  and  that 
her  breath  came  in  little  gasps.  "Take  me,"  she  said,  dropping  her 
face  down  upon  his  knees  and  trembling  violently.  "Take  me  quick. 
There  must  be  a  beginning  to  things.  I  can't  stand  the  waiting. 
You  must  take  me  at  once." 

You  may  be  quite  sure  LeRoy  was  perplexed  by  all  this.  From 
what  he  has  said  I  gathered  that  until  that  evening  he  had 
hardly  noticed  the  woman.  I  suppose  that  of  all  the  men  in  the 
house  he  had  been  the  most  indifferent  to  her.  In  the  room  some- 
thing happened.  The  landlady  followed  the  woman  when  she  ran 
to  LeRoy  and  the  two  women  confronted  him.  The  woman  from 
Iowa  knelt  trembling  and  frightened  at  his  feet.  The  landlady  was 
indignant.  LeRoy  acted  on  impulse.  An  inspiration  came  to  him. 
Putting  his  hand  on  the  kneeling  woman's  shoulder  he  shook  her 
violently.  "Now  behave  yourself,"  he  said  quickly.  "I  will  keep 
my  promise."  He  turned  to  the  landlady  and  smiled.  "We  have 
been  engaged  to  he  married,"  he  said.  "We  have  quarreled.  She 
came  here  to  be  near  me  and  to  help  me  decide.  She  has  been  un- 
well and  excited.  I  will  take  her  away.  Please  don't  let  yourself 
be  annoyed.    I  will  take  her  away." 

When  the  woman  and  LeRoy  got  out  of  the  house  she  stopped 
weeping  and  put  her  hand  into  his.  Her  fears  had  all  gone  away. 
He  found  a  room  for  her  in  another  house  and  then  went  with  her 
into  a  park  and  sat  down  on  a  bench. 

J  *         *         *         * 

Everything  LeRoy  has  told  me  concerning  this  woman 
strengthens  belief  in  what  I  said  to  the  Johns  Hopkins  man  that  day 
in  the  mountains.    You  cannot  venture  along  the  road  of  lives.    On 


The    Little    Review 


29 


the  bench  he  and  the  woman  talked  until  midnight  and  he  saw  and 
talked  with  her  many  times  later.  Nothing  came  of  it.  She  went 
back,  I  suppose,  to  her  place  in  the  West. 

In  the  place  from  which  she  had  come  the  woman  had  been  a 
teacher  of  music.  She  was  one  of  four  sisters,  all  engaged  in  the 
same  sort  of  work  and,  Le  Roy  says,  all  quiet  capable  women.  Their 
father  had  died  when  the  eldest  girl  was  not  yet  ten,  and  five  years 
later  the  mother  died  also.    The  girls  had  a  house  and  a  garden. 

In  the  nature  of  things  I  cannot  know  what  the  lives  of  the 
women  were  like  but  of  this  one  may  be  quite  sure  —  they  talked 
only  of  women's  affairs,  thought  only  of  women's  affairs.  No  one 
of  them  ever  had  a  lover.    For  years  no  man  came  near  the  house. 

Of  them  all  only  the  younger,  the  one  who  came  to  Chicago, 
was  in  any  way  affected  by  the  utterly  feminine  quality  of  their 
lives.  It  did  something  to  her.  All  day  and  every  day  she  taught 
music  to  young  girls  and  then  went  home  to  the  women.  When  she 
was  twenty-five  she  began  to  think  and  to  dream  of  men.  During 
the  day  and  through  the  evening  she  talked  with  women  of  women's 
affairs,  and  all  the  time  she  wanted  desperately  to  be  loved  by  a  man. 
She  went  to  Chicago  with  that  hope  in  mind.  Le  Roy  explained  her 
attitude  in  the  matter  and  her  strange  behavior  in  the  west-side 
house  by  saying  she  had  thought  too  much  and  acted  too  little.  "The 
life  force  within  her  became  decentralized,"  he  declared.  "What  she 
wanted  and  she  could'  not  achieve.  The  living  force  within  could 
not  find  expression.  When  it  could  not  get  expressed  in  one  way 
it  took  another.  Sex  spread  itself  out  over  her  body.  It  permicated 
the  very  fibre  of  her  being.  At  the  last  she  was  sex  personified,  sex 
become  condensed  and  impersonal.  Certain  words,  the  touch  of  a 
man's  hand,  sometimes  even  the  sight  of  a  man  passing  in  the 
street  did  something  to  her. 


Yesterday  I  saw  LeRoy  and  he  talked  to  me  again  of  the 
woman  and  her  strange  and  terrible  fate. 

W>  walked  by  the  lake  in  the  park.  As  we  went  along  the 
figure  of  the  woman  kept  coming  into  my  mind.    An  idea  came  to  me. 

"You  might  have  been  her  lover,"  I  said.  "That  was  possible. 
She  was  not  afraid  of  you." 

Le  Roy  stopped.  Like  the  doctor  who  was  so  sure  of  his  ability 
10  walk  into  lives  he  grew  angry  and  scolded.     For  a  moment  he 


30  T  he     Little     Review 


stared  at  me  and  then  a  rather  odd  thing  happened.  Words  said  by 
that  other  man  in  the  dusty  road  in  the  hills  came  into  LeRoys 
mouth  and  were  said  over  again.  The  suggestion  of  a  sneer  played 
about  the  corners  of  Le  Roy's  mouth.  "How  smart  we  are.  How 
aptly  we  put  things,"  he  said.  _ 

The  voice  of  the  young  man  who  walked  with  me  m  the  park  by 
the  lake  in  the  city  became  shrill.  I  sensed  the  weariness  in  him. 
Then  he  laughed  and  said  quietly  and  softly,  "It  isn't  so  simple. 
By  being  sure  of  yourself  you  are  in  danger  of  losing  all  of  the  ro- 
mances of  life.  You  miss  the  whole  point.  Nothing  in  life  can  be 
settled  so  definitely.  The  woman— don't  you  see— was  like  a  young 
tree  choked  by  a  climbing  vine.  The  thing  that  wrapped  her  about 
had  shut  out  the  light.  She  was  as  grotesque  as  many  trees  in  the 
forest  are  grotesques.  Her  problem  was  such  a  difficult  one  that 
thinking  of  it  has  changed  the  whole  current  of  my  life.  At  first  I 
was  like  you.  I  was  quite  sure.  I  thought  I  would  be  her  lover 
and  settle  the  matter." 

Le  Roy  turned  and  walked  a  little  away.  Then  he  came  back 
and  took  hold  of  my  arm.  A  passionate  earnestness  took  possession 
of  him.  His  voice  trembled.  "She  needs  a  lover,  yes,  the  men  in 
the  house  were  quite  right  about  that,"  he  said.  "She  needed  a  lover 
and  at  the  same  time  a  lover  was  not  what  she  needed.  The  need 
of  a  lover  was,  after  all,  a  quite  secondary  thing.  She  needed  to  be 
loved,  to  be  long  and  quietlv  and  patiently  loved.  To  be  sure  she 
is  a  grotesque,  but  then  all  the  people  in  the  world  are  grotesques. 
We  all  need  to  be  loved.  What  would  cure  her  would  cure  the  rest 
of  us  also.  The  disease  she  had  is,  you  see,  universal.  We  all 
want  to  be  loved  and  the  world  has  no  plan  for  creating  our  lovers." 

Le  Roy's  voice  dropped  and  he  walked  beside  me  in  silence. 
We  turned  away  from  the  lake  and  walked  under  trees.  I  looked 
closely  at  him.  The  cords  of  h's  neck  were  drawn  taut.  "I  have 
seen  under  the  shell  of  life  and  I  am  afraid",  he  mused.  "I  am  my- 
self like  the  woman.  I  am  covered  with  creeping  crawling  vine-like 
things.  I  cannot  be  a  lover.  I  am  not  subtle  or  patient  enough. 
I  am  paying  old  debts.  Old  thoughts  and  beliefs— seeds  planted 
by  dead  men — spring  up  in  my  soul  and  choke  me." 

For  a  long  time  we  walked  and  LeRoy  talked  voicing  the  thoughts 
that  came  to  his  mind.  I  listened  in  silence.  His  mind  struck  upon 
the  refrain  voiced  by  the  man  in  the  mountains.    "I  would  like  to  be 


TJie    Little     Review  31 


a  dead  dry  thing,"  he  muttered  looking  at  the  leaves  scattered  over 
the  grass.  "I  would  like  to  be  a  leaf  blown  by  the  wind."  He 
looked  up  and  his  eyes  turned  to  where  among  the  trees  we  could 
see  the  lake  in  the  distance.  "I  am  weary  and  want  to  be  made 
clean.  I  am  a  man  covered  by  creeping  crawling  things.  I  would 
like  to  be  dead  and  blown  by  the  wind  over  limitless  waters,"  he 
said.    "I  want  more  than  anything  else  in  the  world  to  be  clean." 


SAPTAM    EDOYARDER    SVARGABOHAN 
I.    Gonne 

WE  HAVE  been  accustomed  lately  to  connect  Bengali  literature 
chiefly  with  lyric  poetry  and  religious  prose,  perhaps  even 
to  the  exclusion  of  more  powerful  forms.  Yet  the  spirit  which  pro- 
duced the  Ramayana  and  the  Mahabharata  has  not  passed  away  from 
the  descendants  of  Valmiki.  Mr.  T.  P.  Jyotishi's  poem  stands  as  a 
triumphant  and  decisive  assertion  of  this  fact. 

In  this  fine  work,  perhaps  the  last  great  epic  of  our  times,  the 
author  has  not  attempted  to  revive  the  doings  of  ancient  heroes,  nor 
is  the  impetuosity  of  emotion  delayed  and  hindered  by  a  tedious  eru- 
dition. Yet  while  dealing  with  a  modern  subject  he  has  not  forgotten 
tradition  which  enobles  and  makes  permanent  all  great  production: 
so  throughout  the  poem  Gods  are  seen  descending  on  earth  as  of  yore 
to  minister  speeches  and  solace  to  the  mortals. 

"The  Ascension  of  Edward  VH  to  Heaven  under  its 
title  "Saptam  Edoyarder  Svargabohan",  first  appeared  in  Calcutta  in 
191 1  in  Bengali  with  a  short  prose  rendering  in  English.  But  this 
copy,  however  revealing  it  may  have  been  to  the  Indian  world,  was 
hardly  adequate  for  the  West.  The  translation,  it  is  true,  did  its 
best  to  render  the  dramatic  value  of  the  piece,  and  in  many  passages 
almost  succeeded,  but  an  abbreviated  prose  translation  could  not 
succeed  in  reproducing  the  full  rich  style  of  the  Bengali  verses.  For 
instance  : 


32 


The    Little    Review 


"The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Fife  seem  lifeless"  hardly  conveys 
to  us  the  power  of  the  original : 

Neither  does:  "Queen  Mary  shed  tears"  compare  with 

cm^  cTxR  <T^  =m^  ^  ^  f 

Here  and  there  the  rendering  is  more  felicitius  as  in  the  lines: 
"Oh,  what  is  the  queen  of  Heaven's  Beauty  by  the  side  of  the  per- 
sonal charm  of  England's  Queen?"  Yet  again  how  poor  this  ap- 
pears confronted  with: 

m'if  ^ri  ^  <^(\  '^  ^^  cxf^  /    • 

Shortly  after  the  publication  of  this  first  volume  there  appeared  a 
verse  translation  by  a  Bengali  whose  name,  I  regret  to  say  does  not 
figure  on  the  title  page.  This,  besides  being  a  faithful  expression 
of  the  text,  possesses  as  well  literary  merits  of  its  own  which  should 
have  made  the  author  less  desirous  to  preserve  his  incognito. 

It  may  not  be  superfluous  now  to  give  a  short  account  of  the 
piece  as  it  stands  both  in  the  verse  and  in  the  prose  translation. 

The  book  begins  with  a  song  to  the  glory  of  Britain: 

"Let  us  sing  of  her  vast  literature,  of  her  grand  philosophy,  of 
her  splendid  architecture  apd  of  her  great  musicians." 

After  this  prelude  the  scene  opens  in  the  palace  of  the  God 
Indra.  To  the  assembled  gods  he  is  describing  a  dream  from  which 
he  has  just  awakened  .  In  this  dream  he  had  been  paying  a  visit 
to  the  King' of  England:  "In  that  land  of  men  and  women  simple 
in  appearance,  sympathetic  in  nature,  and  truly  religious".  Then 
follows  a  talk  in  which  Indra  praises  the  King  and  his  kingdom: 


The    Little    Review  33 


"Boru,  the  God  of  the  Ocean  is  now  your  slave  and  is  never  so  hap- 
py as  when -he  dances  with  your  dreaded  Dreadnaughts'  on  his 
bosom." 

Then  he  enjoins  the  King  to  come  with  him  to  Heaven.  After 
a  moment  of  somewhat  excusable  hesitation,  the  King  accepts. 

Here  ends  the  dream  of  Indra,  but  just  as  he  has  done  relating 
it  the  air  is  filled  with  perfume,  "the  dancing  girls  begin  their  be- 
witching dance"  and  Edward  the  VH  enters. 

The  rest  of  the  action  takes  place  on  earth.  On  his  return  from 
Biarritz  the  King  has  fallen  ill,  England  is  steeped  in  anxiety: 
"Ladies  in  scant  coverings  and  with  disordered  locks  awfully  ap- 
prehensive of  what  may  happen,  with  tearful  eyes  and  beating  hearts 
run  this  way  or  that,  all  silent". 

The  doctors  have  no  reassuring  statement  to  make,  they  can 
only  puzzle  at  the  disease. 

"On  the  examination  of  the  patient,  they 
The  ailment's  not  common  in  a  body,  say". 
Meanwhile  the  fear  and  distress  of  England  is  past  control,  a 
collective,  dedirium  has  seized  the  nation  and: 

"To  slip  on  clothes  some  did  entire  forget. 
With  carriages  following  some  were  met. 
With  bare  feet  some  were  found  to  run 
And  entr'ing  wrong  abodes  created  a  fun. 
The  Heads  of  some  of  gears  bereft  were  seen. 
Doctors,  barristers,  foreign  priests  were  there, 
Professors,  editors  and  those  that  bore  the  star. 
Some  in  ones  and  some  in  twos  there  came 
Members  of  Parliament  of  colossal  fame." 
When  the  night  has  come  Queen  Alexandra  leans  out  of  the 
window  and  addresses  a  prayer  to  the  moon,  but  to  no  effect.    The 
royal  patient  gets  steadily  worse.     The  queen's  grief  can  only  be 
in  part  assuaged  by  the  visit  of  Prithivi,  the  Earth-Goddess,  who 
having  dilated  at  length  on  the  sins  of  the  different  countries,  not 
even  excluding  "Old  Morocco  in  her  disgusting  pride,"  concludes  at 
last  that  England  alone  stands  spotless,  and  promises  the  queen  to 
keep  charge  of  the  welfare  of  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

The  King  has  passed  away,  the  news  has  been  proclaimed  to 
the  people  outside  the  gates  of  Buckingham  Palace.     The  crowd 


34  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

breaks  up  in  despair.  "Ladies  unmindful  of  their  untrimmed  hair 
run  to  communicate  the  news  to  others  of  their  sex.  Scholars  hurry 
from  school  leaving  their  books  behind  to  inform  their  parents  of 
the  calamity " 

"All  children  homewards  run  with  weeping  eyes 
To  pour  the  tale  into  maternal  ears." 

The  next  cantos  are  filled  with  rapid  events.  The  new  King 
is  proclaimed,  the  crowned  heads  of  Europe  keep  arriving  to  pay 
their  last  respects  to  the  corpse. 

"Prince  Albert  the  Grand  Duke  with  forehead  white 

Doth  wipe  the  tears  in  silence  shed  in  grief. 

With  whole  family  Asquith  Great  surrounds 

The  Royal  corpse  with  grief  visible  quite. 

By  turns  into  the  Chamber  black  of  death 

He  leads  the  princes  and  to  them  explains 

In  low  and  doleful  whispers  th'  state  of  th'  corpse." 

The  Kaiser  also  makes  his  appearance,  and  the  prince  of 
Wales: 

"Now  sallies  forth  to  meet  his  guest  august 
At  the  railway  station  in  befitting  pomp." 

At  the  sight  of  his  dead  Uncle  the  Kaiser  gives  way  to  an  out- 
burst of  grief  whose  pathos  can  only  be  exceeded  by  that  of  the 
Duke  of  Connaught  who  rushes  in  moaning: 

Alas, 
Why  was  I  seized  with  the  accursed  intent 
The  unblest  Suez  Canal  to  see  ..." 

Later  on  he  expresses  the  same  thought  in  other  words:  "That  in- 
fernal canal  has  sealed  my  doom"!  then  faints  and  has  to  be  carried 
away. 

After  the  funeral  and  the  funereal  banquet  England  once  more 
assumes  its  normal  look.  King  George  has  a  dream  of  his  father's 
celestial  pomp  and  the  poem  closes  on  a  Hymn  to  Britannia's 
greatness. 


T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Rev  iew  35 


OUR    CONTEMPORARIES 

THE  NEW  AGE"  has,  in  a  recent  and  gracious  recognition  of  us, 
very  greatly  misrepresented  our  "tendency",  not  by  a  front  at- 
tack, but  by  an  exaggerated  statement  of  our  aloofness.  Let  it 
pass.  The  careful  reader  will  read  both  us  and  our  critic  and  make 
his  own  due  adjustment. 

In  this  melange  of  bouquets-  and  brick-bats  we  make  but  our 
minimum  acknowledgment  to  the  New  Age-  when  we  indicate 
the  growing  prominence  of  that  paper  in  England.  The  cause  of 
this  advance  during  the  last  four  years  is  not  far  to  seek.  For 
several  years  prior  to  Armageddon,  Mr.  A.  R.  Orage  was  the  sole 
editor  of  any  London  weekly  who  encouraged  mental  activity. 

On  every  other  weekly,  from  the  hyper-grand-ducal  Saturday, 
still  clinging  to  King  Charles  the  martyr  and  the  divine  right  of  an- 
cestry; the  arid  Spectator,  "written  in  London  for  the  provincial  and 
colonial  audience";  the  Nation,  chief  envoy  of  the  Dublin  lower- 
class  to  the  English  suburban  back-parlour;  to  the  New  Statesman, 
last  refuge  of  doctrinaire  committees;  the  statistic  Webbs,  the  haven 
of  Shaw's  worn  out  theories, — in  every  one  of  these  papers  a  set 
FK)int  of  view  was  demanded.  To  every  possible  question,  for  every 
possible  situation  in  life,  art  or  politics,  there  was  a  carefully  pre- 
pared, "correct",  opinion.  _,The  writers  for  fhese  papers  knew  to  a 
jot  just  what  was  the  proper  view  in  every  possible  case. 

Suddenly  hell  broke  loose,  the  normal  and  comfortable  condi- 
tions of  occidental  life  were  suddenly  cast  into  confusion.  There 
were  cases  for  which  no  ready  made  answer  was  available.  On  none 
of  these  antique  staffs,  or  of  these  staffs  suffering  from  premature 
senility  (as  the  New  Statesman's)  was  there  anyone  accustomed  to 
form  conclusions  from  external  facts.  Neither  were  their  editors 
acquainted  with  people  of  "that  sort",  i.e.,  people  accustomed  to 
think  from  facts.  They  were  "flummoxed";  for  years  they  had  care- 
fully avoided  that  type  of  disturbing  mind. 

Only  in  the  small  company  of  "unorganized",  uneven,  unsyste- 
matized A^C2C'  Age  writers  was  there  any  spark  of  this  curious  kind  of 
activity. 

Now  in  the  year  of  grace  1918  let  us  hearken  to  G.  B.  S.,  to 


36  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


this  amusing,  uncultured  old  satirist,  to  this  old  chap  who  amused  us 
fifteen  years  ago  by  his  sparkling  satiric  levity  (melange  of  Ibsen 
method  considerably  trivialized),  Wilde  (of  the  plays),  diluted 
Nietzsche,  to,  in  brief.  G.  B.  S.  who  once  had  m  his  work  no  purpose 
save  to  amuse,  and  to  incite  people  to  the  use  of  their  mental  facul- 
ties. Truly  he  has  gone  under  the  earth,  he  has  taken  up  his  abode 
with  his  forebears,  he  has  entered  the  inactive,  colourless  limbo.  He 
now  complains  that  the  New  Age  is  "a  hotch-potch,  stimulating 
thought  in  general,  but  not  prompting  opinion  like  the  Nation  or  the 
New  Statesman,  nor  reflecting  it  like  the  Spectator  .  .  .  "Its  freedom 
is  the  freedom  of  the  explosive  which  is  not  confined  to  the  cannon, 
spending  itself  incalculably  in  all  directions." 

Poor  old  Shaw,  he  was  pretty  far  gone  when  he  had  to  take 
up  with  the  Sidney  Webbs,  but  here  he  exposes  the  white  hairs  of 
his  long  beard  almost  with  indecency. 

Also  he  is  perhaps  a  little  inaccurate:  Mr.  Orage's  notes  which 
are  the  back-bone  of  the  New  Age,  are  anything  but  a  bolshevik 
chaos,  (as  Mr.  Shaw  admits  .  )  Shaw  has  incorporated  himself  in 
committees,  and  the  most  illustrative  account  (personal)  of  a  recent 
Webbist  committee  meeting,  reported  the  chairman  (female)  as 
follows  :  "  And  now  we  know  what  to  do  with  the  children,  and 
with  the  mentally  deficient,  but  what  shall  we  do  with  the  able- 
bodied  men  ...,?" 

That  is  the  sum  of  these  fabian  crankist  unhumanizing  kultur- 
bunds.  Man  is  a  unit  to  be  dealt  with  via  committees.  Christ,  with 
his  embarrassing  question  regarding  the  value  of  the  individual  soul, 
has  died  in  vain,  etc. 

And  Mr.  Shaw  is  out  for  "forming",  no,  for  "promoting"  opin- 
ion. His  objection  to  the  New  Age  can  be  boiled  down  to  the 
complaint  that  the  New  Age  does  not  insist  on  all  its  contributors 
having  an  "English  public  school  point  of  view"  (Spectator,  and 
Saturday  Review — this  last  Eton  age  13),  or  a  board  school  vul- 
garian mechanico-committee-sub-Cambridge-heretics  point  of  view 
{New  Statesman,  etc.);  that  the  New  Age  has  a  cosmopolitan  staff, 
that  its  oriental  notes  are  done  by  a  man  who  has  lived  in  the  Near 
East,  that  its  continental  notes  are  done  by  a  continental,  that  its 
art  notes  are  not  done  by  a  man  of  the  same  temperament  as  its 
writer  on  guild  socialism,  that  its  notes  on  Balkan  fiterature  are 
not  harmonized  with  its  criticisms  of  English  music,  etc.,  a  condition 


The    Little    Review  37 


of  things  not  to  be  tolerated  on  any  other  British  weekly  publication. 
A  decrtled  improvement  has  been  noticeable  in  the  New  Age 
since  the  paper  became  Mr.  Orage's  exclusive  property,  and  since  he 
has  been  wholly  free  in  its  management. 

E.  P. 


ULYSSES 

James    Joyce 

Episode    V 

BY  lorries  along  Sir  John  Rogerson's  quay  Mr.  Bloom  walked  so- 
berly, past  Windmill  lane.  Leask's  the  linseed  crusher's,  the  postal 
telegraph  office.  Could  have  given  that  address  too.  And  past  the 
sailors'  home.  He  turned  from  the  morning  noises  of  the  quayside 
and  walked  through  Lime  street.  Slack  hour  :  won't  be  many  there. 
He  crossed  Townsend  street,  passed  the  frowning  face  of  Bethel. 
El,  yes:  house  of:  Aleph,  Beth.  And  past  Nichols'  the  undertaker's 
At  eleven  it  is.  Time  enough.  Daresay  Corny  Kelleher  bagged 
that  job  for  O'Neill's. 

In  Westland  row  he  halted  before  the  window  of  the  Belfast 
and  Oriental  Tea  Company  and  read  the  legends  of  lead-papered 
packets:  choice  blend,  finest  quality,  family  tea.  Rather  warm. 
Tea  .  Must  get  some  from  Tom  Kernan>  Couldn't  ask  him  at  a 
funeral,  though.  While  his  eyes  still  read  blandly  he  took  off  his 
hat  quietly  and  sent  his  right  hand  with  slow  grace  over  his  brow 
and  hair.  V^ery  warm  morning.  Under  their  dropped  lids  his  eyes 
found  the  tiny  bow  of  the  leather  headband  inside  his  high  grade 
hat.  Just  there.  His  right  hand  came  down  into  the  bowl  of  his 
hat.  His  fingers  found  quickly  a  card  behind  the  headband  and 
transferred  it  to  his  waistcoat  pocket. 

'  So  warm  .  His  right  hand  once  more  more  slowly  went  over 
his  brow  and  hair.  Then  he  put  on  his  hat  again,  relieved:  and  read 
again:  choice  blend,  made  of  the  finest  Ceylon  brands.  Lovely  spot 
it  must  be:  the  garden  of  the  world,  big  lazy  leaves,  shaky  lianas 
they  call  them.    Wonder  is  it  like  that.     Those  Cinghalese  lobbing 


38  T he    Little    Review 

around  in  the  sun,  not  doing  a  damn  tap  all  day.  ■  Influence  of  the 
climate.  Where  was  the  chap  I  saw  in  that  picture  somewhere?  Ah, 
in  the  dead  sea,  floating  on  his  back,  reading  a  book  with  a  parasol 
open.  Couldn't  sink  if  you  tried:  so  thick  with  salt.  Because  the 
weight  of  the  water,  no,  the  weight  of  the  body  in  the  water  is  equal 
to  the  weight  of  the  what.  Or  is  it  the  volume  is  equal  to  the 
weight?  It's  a  law  something  like  that.  What  is  weight  really 
when  you  say  the  weight?  Thirty  two  feet  per  second  per  second. 
Law  of  falling  bodies:  per  second  per  second.  They  all  fall  to  the 
ground.  The  earth.  It's  the  force  of  gravity  of  the  earth  is  the 
weight. 

He  turned  away  and  sauntered  across  the  road.  As  he  walked 
he  took  the  folded  Freeman  from  his  sidepocket,  unfolded  it,  rolled 
it  lengthwise  in  a  baton  and  tapped  it  at  each  sauntering  step  against 
his  trouserleg.  Careless  air:  just  drop  in  to  see.  Per  second  per 
second.  Per  second  for  every  second  it  means.  From  the  curbstone 
he  darted  a  keen  glance  through  the  door  of  the  postoffice  .  No-one. 
In. 

He  handed  the  card  through  the  brass  grill. 

— Are  there  any  letters  for  me?    he  asked. 

While  the  postmistress  searched  a  pigeonhole  he  gazed  at  the 
recruiting  poster  with  soldiers  of  all  arms  on  parade:  and  held  the 
tip  of  his  baton  against  his  nostrils,  smelling  freshprinted  rag 
paper.    No  answer  probably.    Went  too  far  last  time. 

The  postmistress  handed  him  back  through  the  grill  his  card 
with  a  letter.  He  thanked  her  and  glanced  rapidly  at  the  typed  en- 
velope. 

Henry  Flower  Esq, 

%  P.  0.  Westland  Row, 
City. 

Answered  anyhow.  He  slipped  card  and  letter  into  his  side- 
pocket,  reviewing  again  the  soldiers  on  parade.  Wherq's  "old 
Tweedy's  regiment  ?  There:  bearskin  cap  and  hackle  plume.  No, 
he's  a  grenadier.  Pointed  cuffs.  There  he  is:  royal  Dublin  fusiliers. 
Redcoats.  Too  showy.  That  must  be  why  the  women  go  after 
them.  Take  them  off  O'Connell  street  at  night:  disgrace  to  our 
Irish  capital.  Griffith's  paper  is  on  the  same  tack  now:  an  army 
rotten  with  disease:  overseas  or  halfseasover.  Half  baked  they  look: 
hypnotised  like.     Eyes  front! 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  39 

He  strolled  out  of  the  postoffice  and  turned  to  the  right.  Talk: 
as  if  that  would  mend  matters.  His  hand  went  into  his  pocket  and  a 
forefinger  felt  its  way  under  the  flap  of  the  envelope,  ripping  it  open 
in  jerks.  Women  will  pay  a  lot  of  heed,  I  don't  think.  His  fingers 
drew  forth  the  letter  and  crumpled  the  envelope  in  his  pocket. 
Something  pinned  on:  photo  perhaps.     Hair?     No  . 

M'Coy.     Get  rid  of  him  quickly, 

— Hello,  Bloom.    Where  are  you  off  to? 

— Hello,  M'Coy.    Nowhere  in  particular. 

— How's  the  body? 

— Well.    How  are  you? 

— ^Just  keeping  alive,  M'Coy  said. 

His  eyes  on  the  black  tie  and  clothes,  he  asked  with  low  respect. 

— Is  there  any  ....  no  trouble  I  hope?    I  see  you're  .... 

— 0  no,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  Poor  Dignam,  you  know  .  The  fu- 
neral is  today. 

— To  be  sure,  poor  fellow.    So  it  is.    What  time? 
A  photo  it  isn't.    A  badge  maybe. 

— E  .  .  eleven,  Mr.  Bloom  answered. 

— I  must  try  to  get  out  there,  M'Coy  said.  Eleven,  is  it?  I 
only  heard  it  last  night.  Who  was  telling  me?  Holohan.  You 
know  Hoppy?  , 

— I  know. 

Mr.  Bloom  gazed  across  the  road  at  the  outsider  drawn  up  be- 
fore the  door  of  the  Grosvenor.  The  porter  hoisted  the  valise  up  on 
the  well.  She  stood  still,  waiting,  while  the  man,  husband,  brother, 
like  her,  searched  his  pockets  for  change.  Stylish  kind  of  coat  with 
that  roll  collar,  warm  for  a  day  like  this,  looks  like  blanketcloth. 
Careless  stand  of  her  with  her  hands  in  those  patch  pockets. 

— I  was^with  Bob  Doran,  he's  on  one  of  his  periodical  bends, 
and  what  do  you  call  him  Bantam  Lyons.  Just  down  there  in  Con- 
way's we  were. 

Doran,  Lyons  in  Conway's.  She  raised  a  gloved  hand  to  her 
hair.  In  came  Hoppy.  Having  a  wet.  Drawing  back  his  head  and 
gazing  far  from  beneath  his  veiled  eyelids  he  saw  the  bright  fawn 
skin  shine  in  the  glare,  the  braided  drums.  Talking  of  one  thing  or 
another.    Lady's  hand.    Which  side  will  she  get  up? 

— And  he  said:  Sad  thing  about  our  poor  friend  Paddy!  What 
Paddy?    I  said.    Poor  little  Paddy  Dignam,  he  said  . 


40  T he    Little    Review 

Off  to  the  country:  Broadstone  probably.  High  brown  boots 
with  laces  dangling.  Wellturned  foot.  What  is  he  foostering  over 
that  change  for? 

— Why?    I  said.    What's  wrong  with  him?    I  said. 

Proud:  rich:  silk  stockings. 

— Yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

He  moved  a  little  to  the  side  of  M"Coy's  talking  head.  Getting 
up  in  a  minute. 

— What's  wrong  with  him?  he  said.  He's  dead,  he  said.  And, 
faith  he  filled  up.  Is  it  Paddy  Dignam?  I  said.  I  couldn't  believe  it 
when  I  heard  it.  I  was  with  him  no  later  than  Friday  last  or  Thurs- 
day was  it  in  the  Arch.  Yes,  he  said.  He's  gone.  He  died  on  Mon- 
day, poor  fellow. 

Watch!     Watch!     Silk  flash  rich  stockings  white.    Watch! 

A  heavy  tramcar  honking  its  gong  slewed  between. 

Lost  it.  Curse  your  noisy  pugnose.  Always  happening  like 
that.    The  very  moment. 

— Yes,  yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said  after  a  dull  sigh.    Another  gone. 

— One  of  the  best,  M'Coy  said. 

The  tram  passed.  They  drove  off  towards  the  Loop  Line 
bridge,  her  rich  gloved  hand  on  the  steel  grip.  Flicker,  flicker: 
the  laceflare  of  her  hat  in  the  sun:  flicker,  flick. 

— Wife  well  I  suppose?    M 'Coy's  changed  voice  said. 

—0  yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said.    Tiptop,  thanks. 

He  unrolled  the  newspaper  baton  idly  and  read  idly: 
What  is  home  without 

Plumtree's  Potted  Meat? 
Incomplete. 
With  it  an  abode  of  bliss. 

— My  missus  has  just  got  an  engagement.  At  least  it's  not 
settled  yet. 

Valise  tack  again.    I'm  off  that,  thanks. 

Mr.  Bloom  turned  his  largelidded  eyes  with  unhasty  friend- 
liness: 

— My  wife  too.  he  said.  She's  going  to  sing  at  a  swagger  affair 
in  the  Ulster  hall,  Belfast,  on  the  twentyfifth. 

— That  so?  M'Coy  said.  Glad  to  hear  that,  old  man.  Who's 
getting  it  up? 

Mrs.  Marion  Bloom.    Not  up  yet.    No  book.    Blackened  court 


J 


T he    Little    Review  41 

cards  laid  along  her  thigh  by  sevens.  Dark  lady  and  fair  man.  Cat 
furry  black  ball.    Torn  strip  of  envelope. 

Love's 

Old 

Sweet 

Song 

Comes  love's  old  .... 

— It's  a  kind  of  a  tour,  don't  you  see?  Mr.  Bloom  said  thought- 
fully .  Sweeeet  song.  There's  a  committee  formed.  Part  shares 
and  part  profits. 

M'Coy  nodded,  picking  at  his  moustache  stubble. 

— O  well,  he  said.     That's  good  news. 

He  moved  to  go. 

• — Well,  glad  to  see  you  looking  fit,  he  said.  Meet  you  knock- 
ing around. 

— Yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

— Tell  you  what,  M'Coy  said.  You  might  put  down  my  name 
at  the  funeral,  will  you?  I'd  like  to  go  but  I  mightn't  be  able,  you 
see.    You  just  shove  in  my  name  if  I'm  not  there,  will  you? 

— I'll  do  that,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  moving.    That'll  be  all  right. 

— Right,  M'Coy  said  brightly.  Thanks,  old  man.  I'd  go  if  I 
possibly  could.    Well,  tolloll.    Just  C.  P.  M'Coy  will  do. 

— That  will  be  done,  Mr.  Bloom  answered  firmly. 

Didn't  come  off  that  wheeze. 

Mr.  Bloom,  strolling  towards  Brunswick  street,  smiled.  My 
missus  has  just  got  an.  Reedy  freckled  soprano.  Nice  enough  in  its 
way:  for  a  little  ballad.  No  guts  in  it.  You  and  me,  don't  you 
know?  In  the  same  boat.  Give  you  the  needle  that  would.  Can't 
he  hear  the  difference?  Thought  that  Belfast  would  letch  him. 
Your  wife  and  my  wife. 

Wonder  is  he  pimping  after  me? 

Mr.  Bloom  stood  at  the  corner,  his  eyes  wandering  over  the 
multicoloured  hoardings.  Cantrell  and  Cochrane's  Ginger  Ale  (Aro- 
matic). Clery's  summer  sale.  No,  he's  going  on  straight.  Hello. 
Leah  tonight:  Mrs.  Bandmann  Palmer.  Like  to  see  her  in  that 
again.  Poor  papa!  How  he  used  to  talk  about  Kate  Bateman  in 
that!  Outside  the  Adelphi  in  London  waited  all  the  afternoon  to 
get  in.  Year  before  I  was  born  that  was:  sixtyfive.  And  Ristori 
jin  Vienna.    What  is  this  the  right  name  is?     By  Mosenthal  it  is. 


42  The    Little    Review 

Rachel,  is  it?  No.  The  scene  he  was  always  talking  about  where 
the  old  blind  Abraham  recognises  the  voice  and  puts  his  fingers  on 
his  face. 

Nathan's  voice!  His  son's  voice!  I  hear  the  voice  of  Nathan 
who  left  his  father  to  die  of  grief  and  misery  in  my  arms,  who  left 
the  house  of  his  father  and  left  the  God  of  his  father. 

Every  word  is  so  deep,  Leopold. 

Poor  papa!  Poor  man!  I'm  glad  I  didn't  go  into  the  room  to 
look  at  his  face.  That  day!  0  dear!  O  dear!  Ffoo!  Well,  per- 
haps it  was  the  best  for  him. 

Mr.  Bloom  went  round  the  corner  and  passed  the  drooping 
horses  of  the  hazard.  No  use  thinking  of  it  any  more.  Nosebag 
time.  Wish  I  hadn't  met  that  M'Coy  fellow.  He  came  nearer  and 
heard  a  crunching  of  the  oats,  the  gently  champing  teeth.  Their 
full  buck  eyes  regarded  him  as  he  went  by.  Poor  jugginses!  Damn 
all  they  know  or  care  about  anything  with  their  long  noses  stuck 
in  nosebags.  Still  they  get  their  feed  all  right  and  their  doss. 
Gelded  too:  Might  be  happy  all  the  same  that  way.  Good  poor 
brutes  they  look. 

He  drew  the  letter  from  his  pocket  and  folded  it  into  the  news- 
paper he  carried.  Might  just  walk  into  her  here.  The  lane  is 
safer. 

He  hummed,  passing  the  cabman's  shelter: 

La  ci  darem  la  mano 

La  la  lala  la  la. 

He  turned  into  Cumberland  street  and,  going  on  some  paces, 
halted  in  the  lee  of  the  station  wall.  No-one.  Meade's  timberyard  . 
Ruins  and  tenements.    He  opened  the  letter  within  the  newspaper. 

A  flower.  A  yellow  flower  with  flattened  petals.  Not  annoyed 
then?    What  does  she  say? 

Dear  Henry 

I  got  your  last  letter  to  me  and  thank  you  very  much  for  it. 
I  am  sorry  you  did  not  like  my  last  letter.  Why  did  you  enclose 
the  stamps?  I  am  awfully  angry  with  you.  I  do  wish  I  could 
punish  you  for  that.  I  called  you  naughty  boy  because  I  do 
not  like  that  other  word.  Please  tell  me  what  is  the  real  mean- 
ing of  that  word.  Are  you  not  happy  in  your  home,  you  poor 
little  naughty  boy?  I  do  wish  I  could  do  something  for  you.-  Please 


TheLittleReview  43 

tell  me  what  you  think  of  poor  me.  I  often  think  of  the  beautiful 
name  you  have.  Dear  Henry^  when  will  we  meet?  I  think 
of  you  so  often  you  have  no  idea.  I  have  never  felt  myself  so 
much  drawn  to  a  man  as  you.  I  feel  so  bad  about.  Please 
write  me  a  long  letter  and  tell  me  more.  Remember  if  you  do 
not  I  will  punish  you.  So  now  you  know  what  I  will  do  to  you, 
you  naughty  boy,  if  you  do  not  write.  O  how  I  long  to  meet 
you.  Henry  dear,  do  not  deny  my  request  before  my  patience 
are  exhausted.  Then  I  will  tell  you  all.  Goodbye  now,  naughty 
darling.  I  have  such  a  bad  headache  today  and  write  soon 
to  your  longing 

Martha 
P.  S.     Do  tell  me  what  kind  of  perfume  does  your  wife 
use.    I  want  to  know. 

He  tore  the  flower  gravely  from  its  pinhold  and  placed  it  in  his 
beart  pocket.  Then,  walking  slowly  forward,  he  read  the  letter 
again,  murmuring  here  and  there  a  word.  Having  read  it  all  he 
took  it  from  the  newspaper  and  put  it  back  in  his  sidepocket. 

Weak  joy  opened  his  lips.  Changed  since  the  first  letter. 
Doing  the  indignant:  a  girl  of  good  family  like  me,  respectable 
character.  Could  meet  one  Sunday  after  mass.  Thank  you:  not 
having  any.  Go  further  next  time.  Naughty  boy:  punish:  afraid 
of  words  of  course.  Brutal,  why  not?  Try  it  anyhow.  A  bit  at  a 
time. 

Fingering  still  the  letter  in  his  pocket  he  drew  the  pin  out  of 
it.  Common  pin,  eh?  He  threw  it  on  the  road.  Out  of  her  clothes 
somewhere:  pmned  together.  Queer  the  number  of  pins  they  always 
have. 

Flat  Dublin  voices  bawled  in  his  head.  Those  two  sluts  that 
night  in  the  Coombe,  linked  together  in  the  rain: 

Mairy  lost  the  pin  of  her  drawers 

She  didn't  know  what  to  do 

To  keep  if  np 

To  keep  it  up 

It?  Them.  Such  a  bad  headache.  What  perfume  does  your 
wife  use?     Now  could  you  make  out  a  thing  like  that? 

To  keep  it  up. 

Martha,  Mary.     I  saw  that  picture  somewhere  I  forget  now. 


44  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


He  is  sitting  in  their  house,  talking.  Mysterious.  Also  the  two 
sluts  in  the  Coombe  would  listen. 

To  keep  it  up. 

Nice  kind  of  evening  feeling.  No  more  wandering  about.  Just 
loll  there:  quiet  dusk:  let  everything  rip.  Tell  about  places  you 
have  been,  strange  customs.  The  other  one  was  getting  the  supper: 
fruit,  olives,  lovely  cool  water  out  of  the  well,  things  like  that.  She 
listens  with  big  dark  soft  eyes.  Tell  her:  more  and  more:  all.  Then 
a  sigh:  silence.    Long  long  long  rest. 

Going  under  the  railway  arch  he  took  out  the  envelope,  tore  it 
swiftly  in  shreds  and  scattered  them  towards  the  road.  The  shreds 
fluttered  away,  sank  in  the  dank  air:  a  white  flutter  then  all  sank. 

Henry  Flower.  You  could  tear  up  a  cheque  for  a  hundred 
pounds  in  the  same  way.  Simple  bit  of  paper.  Lord  Iveagh  once 
cashed  a  cheque  for  a  million  in  the  bank  of  Ireland.  Shows  you  the 
money  to  be  made  out  of  porter.  A  million  pounds,  wait  a  moment. 
Twopence  a  pint,  fourpence  a  quart,  eightpence  a  gallon  of  porter, 
no,  one  and  fourpence  a  gallon  of  porter.  One  and  four  into  twen- 
ty: fifteen  about.    Yes,  exactly.    Fifteen  millions  of  barrels  of  porter. 

What  am  I  saying,  barrels?  Gallons.  About  a  million  barrels 
all  the  same. 

An  incoming  train  clanked  heavily  above  his  head,  coach  after 
coach.  Barrels  bumped  in  his  head:  dull  porter  slopped  and 
churned  inside.  The  bungholes  sprang  open  and  a  huge  dull  flood 
leaked  out,  flowing  together,  winding  through  mudflats  all  over 
the  level  land,  a  lazy  pooling  swirl  of  liquor  bearing  along  wide- 
leaved  flowers  of  its  froth. 

He  had  reached  the  open  backdoor  of  All  Hallows.  Stepping 
into  the  porch  he  doffed  his  hat,  took  the  card  from  his  pocket  and 
tucked  it  again  behind  the  leather  headband.  Damn  it.  I  might 
have  tried  to  work  M'Coy  for  a  pass  to  Mullingar. 

Same  notice  on  the  door.  Sermon  by  the  Very  Reverend  John 
Conmee  S.  J.  on  saint  Peter  Claver  S.  G.  and  the  African  mission. 
Conmee:  Martin  Cunningham  knows  him:  distinguished  looking. 
He's  not  going  out  to  baptise  blacks,  is  he?  Like  to  see  them  sitting 
round  in  a  circle,  listening.    Lap  it  up  like  milk,  I  suppose.  , 

The  cold  smell  of  sacred  stone  called  him.  He  pushed  the 
swingdoor  and  entered  softly  by  the  rear. 

Something  going   on:    some   sodality.     Women   knelt   m   the 


The    Little    Review  45 


benches  with  crimson  halters  round  their  necks,  heads  bowed.  A 
batch  knelt  at  the  altar  rails.  The  priest  went  along  by  them,  mur- 
muring, holding  the  thing  in  his  hands.  He  stopped  at  each,  took 
out  a  communion,  shook  a  drop  or  two  (are  they  in  water?)  off  it 
and  put  it  neatly  into  her  mouth.  Her  hat  and  head  sank.  Then 
the  next  one:  a  small  old  woman.  The  priest  bent  down  to  put  it 
into  her  mouth,  murmuring  all  the  time.  Latin.  The  ne.xt  one. 
What?  Corpus.  Body.  Corpse.  They  don't  seem  to  chew  it:  only 
swallow  it  down.    Rum  idea:  eating. bits  of  a  corpse. 

He  stood  aside  watching  their  blind  masks  pass  down  the  aisle, 
one  by  one,  and  seek  their  places.  He  approached  a  bench  and 
seated  himself  in  its  corner,  nursing  his  hat  and  ner*^paper.  They 
were  about  him  here  and  there,  with  heads  still  bowed  in  their 
crimson  halters,  waiting  for  it  to  melt  in  their  stomachs.  Something 
like  those  mazzoth:  it's  that  sort  of  bread:  unleavened  bread.  Look 
at  them.  Now  I  bet  it  makes  them  feel  happy.  It  does.  Yes, 
bread  of  angels  it's  called.  There's  a  big  idea  behind  it,  kind  of 
heavenly  feel  inside.  Then  feel  all  like  one  family,  all  in  the  same 
swim.  They  do.  I'm  sure  of  that.  Not  so  lonely.  Thing  is  if 
you  really  believe  in  it. 

He  saw  the  priest  stow  the  communion  cup  away,  well  in,  and 
kneel  an  instant  before  it,  showing  a  large  grey  bootsole  from  under 
the  lace  affair  he  had  on.  Letters  on  his  back:  I.  H.  S.  Molly 
told  me  one  time  I  askd  her.  I  have  sinnd:  or  no:  I  have  suffered 
it  is. 

Meet  one  Sunday  after  mass.  Do  not  deny  my  request.  She 
might  be  here  with  a  ribbon  round  her  neck  and  do  the  other  thing 
all  the  same  on  the  sly.  Their  character.  That  fellow  that  turned 
queen's  evidence  on  the  invincibles  he  used  to  receive  the — ,  Carey 
was  his  name — the  communion  every  morning.  This  very  church. 
Peter  Carey.  No,  Peter  Claver  I  am  thinking  of.  Denis  Carey. 
And  just  imagine  that.  And  plotting  that  murder  all  the  time. 
Those  crawthumpers,  now  that's  a  good  name  for  them,  there's  al- 
ways something  shiftylooking  about  them.  They're  not  straight 
men  of  business  either.  0  no  she's  not  here:  the  flower:  no,  no. 
By  the  way  did  I  tear  up  that  envelope?    Yes:  under  the  bridge. 

The  priest  was  rinsing  out  the  chalice:  then  he  tossed  off  the 
dregs  smartly.  Doesn't  give  them  any  of  the  wine:  only  the  other. 
Quite  right:  otherwise  they'd  have  one  old  booser  worse  than  an- 


46  T  he    Lit  tie    Rev  lew 


other  coming  along,  cadging  for  a  drink.  Spoil  the  whole  atmos- 
phere of  the.    Quite  right.    Perfectly  right  that  is. 

Mr.  Bloom  looked  back  towards  the  choir.  Not  going  to  be 
any  music.  Pity.  Who  has  the  organ  here  I  wonder?  Old  Glynn, 
he  knew  how  to  make  that  instrument  talk,  the  vibrato:  fifty  pounds 
a  year  they  say  he  had  in  Gardiner  street.  Molly  was  in  fine  voice 
that  day,  the  Stabat  Mater  of  Rossini.  I  told  her  to  pitch  her  voice 
against  that  corner.  I  could  feel  the  thrill  in  the  air,  the  people 
looking  up: 

Quis  est  homo 

Some  of  that  old  sacred  music  splendid.  Mercadante:  seven 
last  words.  Mozart's  twelfth  mass:  Gloria  in  that.  Those  old  popes 
keen  on  music,  on  art  and  statues  and  pictures  of  all  kinds.  Pales- 
trina  for  example  too.  They  had  a  gay  old  time  while  it  lasted. 
Still,  having  eunuchs  in  their  choir  that  was  coming  it  a  bit  thick. 
What  kind  of  voice  .is  it?  Must  be  curious  to  hear.  Connois"seurs. 
Suppose  they  wouldn't  feel  anything  after.  Kind  of  a  placid.  No 
worry.  Fall  into  flesh  don't  they?  Who  knows?  Eunuch.  One 
way  out  of  it. 

He  saw  the  priest  bend  down  and  kiss  the  altar  and  then  face 
about  and  bless  all  the  people.  All  crossed  themselves  and  stood  up. 
Mr.  Bloom  glanced  about  him  and  then  stood  up,  looking  over  the 
risen  hats.  Stand  up  at  the  gospel  of  course.  Then  all  settled  down 
on  their  knees  again  and  he  sat  back  quietly  in  his  bench.  The 
priest  came  down  from  the  altar,  holding  the  thing  out  from  him,  and 
he_  and  the  massboy  answered  each  other  in  Latin,  Then  the 
priest  knelt  down  and  began  to  read  off  a  card: 

0  God,  our  refuge  and  our  strength, 

Mr.  Bloom  put  his  face  forward  to  catch  the  words.  Glorious 
and  immaculate  virgin.  Joseph  her  spouse.  Peter  and  Paul.  More 
interesting  if  you  understood  what  it  was  all  about.  Wonderful 
organization  certainly,  goes  like  clockwork.  Squareheaded  chaps 
those  must  be  in  Rome:  they  work  the  whole  show.  And  don't  they 
rake  in  the  money  too?  Bequests  also:  to  say  so  many  masses. 
The  priest  in  the  Fermanagh  will  case  in  the  witnessbox.  No  brow- 
beating him  .  He  had  his  answer  pat  for  everythmg.  Liberty  and 
exaltation  of  our  holy  mother  the  church.  The  doctors  of  the  church: 
they  mapped  out  the  whole  theology  of  it. 

The  priest  prayed: 


The    Little    Review  47 

— Blessed  Michael,  archangel,  defend  us  in  the  hour  of  con- 
flict. Be  our  safeguard  against  the  wickedness  and  snares  of  the 
devil  {may  God  restrain  him  ive  humbly  pray) :  and  do  thou,  O 
prince  of  the  heavenly  host  by  the  power  of  God  thrust  Satan  down 
to  hell  and  with  him  those  other  wicked  spirits  who  wander  through 
the  world  for  the  ruin  of  souls. 

The  priest  and  the  massboy  stood  up  and  walked  off.  All  over. 
The  women  remained  behind:  thanksgiving. 

Better  be  shoving  along. 

He  stood  up.  Hello.  Were  those  two  buttons  of  my  waistcoat 
open  all  the  time?  He  passed,  discreetly  buttoning,  down  the  aisle 
and  out  through  the  main  door  into  the  light.  Trams:  a  car  of 
Prescott's  dyeworks:  a  widow  in  her  weeds.  He  covered  himself. 
How  goes  the  time?  Quarter  past.  Time  enough  yet.  Better  get 
that  lotion  made  up.  Where  is  this?  Ah  yes,  the  last  time,  Sweny's 
in  Lincoln  place. 

He  walked  southward  along  Westland  row.  But  the  recipe  is 
in  the  other  trousers.  O,  and  I  forgot  that  latchkey  too.  Bore  this 
funeral  affair.  0  well,  poor  fellow,  it's  not  his  fault.  When  was  it 
I  got  it  made  up  last?  Wait.  I  changed  a  sovereign  I  remember. 
First  of  the  month  it  must  have  been  or  the  second.  O  he  can  look 
it  up  in  the  prescriptions  book. 

The  chemist  turned  back  page  after  page.  Sandy  shrivelled 
smell  he  seems  to  have.  Living  all  the  day  among  herbs  and  oint- 
ments. The  first  fellow  that  picked  an  herb  to  cure  himself  had  a 
bit  of  pluck.    Want  to  be  careful.    Enough  stuff  here  to  send  you  off. 

— About  a  fortnight  ago,  sir? 

— Yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

He  waited  by  the  counter,  inhaling  the  keen  reek  of  drugs,  the 
dusty  dry  smell  of  sponges. 

— Sweet  almond  oil  and  tincture  of  benzoin,  Mr.  Bloom  said, 
and  then  orangefiower  water  .  .  . 

It  certainly  did  make  her  skin  so  delicate  white  like  wax, 

— And  whjtewax  also,  he  said. 

Brings  out  the  darkness  of  her  eyes.  Looking  at  me,  the  sheet 
up  to  her  eyes,  when  I  was  fixing  the  links  in  my  cuffs.  Those  home- 
ly recipes  are  often  the  best:  oatmeal  they  say  steeped  in  butter- 
milk. But  you  want  a  perfume  too.  That  orangefiower  water  is 
so  fresh.    Nice  smell  these  soaps  have.    Time  to  get  a  bath  round 


48  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


the  corner.    Feel  fresh  then  all  day.    Funeral  be  rather  glum. 

— Yes,  sir,  the  chemist  said.  That  was  two  and  nine.  Have  you 
brought  a  bottle? 

— No,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  Make  it  up,  please.  I'll  call  later  in 
the  day  and  I'll  take  one  of  those  soaps.    How  much  are  they? 

— Fourpence,  sir, 

Mr.  Bloom  raised  a  cake  to  his  nostrils.     Sweet  lemony  wax. 

— I'll  take  this  one,  he  said.    That  makes  three  and  a  penny. 

— Yes,  sir,  the  chemist  said.  You  can  pay  all  together,  sir, 
when  you  come  back. 

— Good,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

He  strolled  out  of  the  shop,  the  newspaper  baton  under  his  arm- 
pit, the  cool  wrappered  soap  in  his  left  hand. 

At  his  armpit  Bantam  Lyons'  voice  and  hand  said: 

— Hello,  Bloom.    Is  that  today's?    Show  us  a  minute. 

Shaved  off  his  moustache  again,  by  Jove !  Long  cold  upper  lip. 
To  look  younger.    He  does  look  balmy. 

Bantam  Lyons'  yellow  blacknailed  fingers  unrolled  the  baton. 
Wants  a  wash  too. 

I  want  to  see  about  that  French  horse  that's  running  today, 
Bantam  Lyons'  said. 

He  rustled  the  pleated  pages,  jerking  his  chin  on  his"  high  col- 
lar.   Better  leave  him  the  paper  and  get  shut  of  him. 

— You  can  keep  it,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

— Ascot.  Gold  cup.  Wait,  Bantam  Lyons  muttered.  Maxi- 
mum the  second. 

— I  was  just  going  to  throw  it  away,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

Bantam  Lyons  raised  his  eyes  suddenly  and  leered  weakly. 

— What's  that?    his  sharp  voice  said. 

— I  say  you  can  keep  it,  Mr.  Bloom  answered.  I  was  going  to 
throw  it  away  that  moment. 

Bantam  Lyons  doubted  an  instant,  leering:  then  thrust  the 
outspread  sheets  back  on  Mr.  Bloom's  arms. 

— I'll  risk  it,  he  said.    Here,  thanks. 

He  sped  off  towards  Conway's  corner. 

Mr.  Bloom  folded  the  sheets  again  to  a  neat  square  and  lodged 


The    Little    Review  49 


the  soap  on  it,  smiling.  Silly  lips  of  that  chap.  He  walked  cheer- 
fully towards  the  mosque  of  the  baths.  Remind  you  of  a  mosque, 
redbaked  bricks,  the  minarets.  College  sports  today  I  see.  He  eyed 
the  horseshoe  poster  over  the  gate  of  the  college  park:  cyclist  doub- 
led up  like  a  cod  in  a  pot.  Damn  bad  ad.  Now  if  they  had  made 
it  round  like  a  wheel.  Then  the  spokes:  sports,  sports,  sports:  and 
the  hub  big:  college.  Something  to  catch  the  eye. 
,  There's  Hornblower  standing  at  the  porter's  lodge.  Keep  him 
on  hands:  might  take  a  turn  in  there  on  the  nod.  How  do  you  do, 
Mr.  Hornblower?     How  do  you  do,  sir? 

Heavenly  weather  really.  If  life  was  always  like  that.  Won't 
last.  Always  passing,  the  stream  of  life,  which  in  the  stream  of  life 
we  trace  is  dearer  thaaan  them  all.  , 

Erijoy  a  bath  now:  clean  trough  of  water,  cool  enamel,  the 
gentle  tepid  stream.  He  foresaw  his  pale  body  reclined  in  it  at  full, 
naked,  oiled  by  scented  melting  soap,  softly  laved.  He  saw  his 
trunk  and  limbs  riprippled  over  and  sustained, '  buoyed  lightly  up- 
ward, lemonyellow. 

{to  be  continued) 


WOMEN  AND  MEN  ".i 

Ford    Madox    Hueffer  ] 

V.  ~; 

Average    People 

I  HAVE  a  friend  whom  I  will  call  T.  T  went  to  Rugby  and  Ox- 
ford. He  ate  his  dinners  at  the  Middle  Temple.  He  was  called 
to  the  bar  and  he  at  once  had  a  brief  for  a  mining  company  of  which 
one  of  his  uncles  was  the  chairman  of  directors.  Just  after  this — 
when  T  was  twenty-iive — he  came  in  for  six  thousand  a  year.  From 
that  day  to  this  he  has  never  done  anything.  Nothing.  Nothing 
at  all.  I  meet  him  from  time  to  time  at  my  club  and  for  some  rea- 
son or  other  I  like  him  very  well  and  he  likes  me.  Hie  tells  me  a 
good  deal  about  racing.    And  this  is  the  mode  of  his  regular  life. 


/ 

so 

The 

Little 

Review 

He 

is 

forty-one — and 

a  bachelor. 

He  has  an 

immense 

house 

in 

Palace  Gardens,  Kensington.  The  house  contains  thirty  rooms  and 
T  has  six  servants.  The  house  is  an  inheritance  from  his  uncle 
which  T  has  never  taken  the  trouble  to  get  rid  of.  The  six  servants 
are  needed  in  order  to  keep  it  tidy.  The  only  one  of  them  that  T 
ever  sees  is  his  "man".  He  rises  from  his  bed  every  morning  at 
8:30,  Over  his  bath  and  his  dressing  he  spends  exactly  an  hour — 
breakfasting  at  9:30.  Over  his  breakfast  and  the  Morning  Post  he 
spends  exactly  an  hour,  finishing  at  10:30.  Half  an  hour  he 
spends  with  his  "man",  discussing  what  he  will  have  for  dinner, 
what  tie  he  will  put  on  with  what  suit;  or,  if  he  wants  any  new 
clothes,  which  he  does  very  frequently,  he  discusses  what  is  being 
worn  by  various  gentlemen  whom  his  "man"  has  seen.  At  1 1  he  puts 
on  the  suit  and  the  tie  that  his  "man"  has  sanctioned  and  laid  out 
in  his  dressing  room.  At  11:30  he  walks  across  Kensington  Gar- 
dens and  into  the  Row  where  he  strolls,  leans  on  the  railings  and 
talks  to  various  riders  or  sits  upon  a  penny  chair.  This  lasts  him 
until  a  quarter  to  one.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  takes  him  to  his  club 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  King  Street,  St.  James's.  At  his  club  he  sits 
for  half  an  hour  in  a  deep  arm  chair  reposing  both  his  soul  and  his 
body.  This  is  for  tihe  good  of  his  digestion  for  he  knows  that  it 
is  unhealthy  to  eat  immediately  after  having  taken  exercise.  Aftei 
lunch,  which  consists  of  a  soup,  a  meat  and  cheese  or  apple  tart, 
washed  down  with  either  barley  water  or  very  weak-  whisky  and 
vichy — which  is  excellent  against  the  gout, — after  lunch  he  sits  until, 
3:30  in  the  same  deep  arm  chair.  At  3:30  he  strolls  a  little  farther 
eastward  where  he  finds  an  institution  which  keeps  one's  health  in 
order  by  means  of  various  exercises  with  dumb  bells.  Here  he  ex- 
ercises himself  for  an  hour,  wearing  practically  no  clothes  and  stand- 
ing before  the  open  window  for  the  benefit  of  the  fresh  air.  Dress- 
ing himself  occupies  him  for  half  an  hour.  At  five  o'clock  he  takes  a 
cup  of  tea  and  one  slice  of  buttered  toast.  At  half  past  five  he 
walks  to  the  Bath  Club.  Here  he  takes  a  Turkish  bath  with  a 
plunge  afterwards  into  the  swimming  bath.  This  occupies  one  hour 
and  a  half.  At  seven  o'clock  he  takes  a  taxi  cab  and  goes  home, 
arriving  there  at  7:15.  Three  quarters  of  an  hour  he  devotes  tc 
dressing  for  dinner.  At  eight  o'clock  he  dines,  always  alone  because 
conversation  is  unhealthy  during  serious  meals.    By  nine  o'clock  hei 


The    Little    Review  51 

has  finished  dinner.  From  nine  until  ten  he  takes  a  nap,  being 
awakened  as  the  hour  strikes  by  his  "man".  Frcm  ten  to  eleven  he 
reads  the  evening  papers.  At  eleven  o'clock  he  goes  to  bed.  And  he 
tells  me  that  he  falls  asleep  the  moment  his  head  touches  the  pillow 
and  that  he  sleeps  the  dreamless  sleep  of  infants  and  of  the  pure 
in  heart,  until  eight  o'clock  when  his  "man"  wakes  him  up  with  a 
cup  of  tea  and  the  first  post.  So  the  ideal  day  of  this  ideal  average 
man  runs  its  appointed  course.  And  it  is  a  positive  fact  that  my 
friend  once  uttered  these  words.     He  said: 

"My  dear  chap.  How  could  you  pass  your  day  better?  Tell 
me  how?  I  once  read  a  hymn  and  it  struck  me  so  much  that  I 
copied  it  out."  And  Mr.  T  produced  a  little  note  book  from  which 
amazingly  he  read  out  the  words: 

"Sweet  day  so  cool,  so  calm,  so  bright 
The  bridal  of  the  earth  and  sky. 
The  dews  shall  weep  thy  fall  to-night 
For  thou,  with  all  they  sweets,  must  die"  .... 

"That,"  Mr.  T  said,  "exactly  reminds  me  of  my  days.  Of 
course  I  shall  die  one  day  land  if  it  isn't  wrong  to  say  so  I  hope 
to  go  to  Heaven  for  I  have  never  done  any  harm  in  my  life.  I 
behave  always  I  hope  like  an  English  gentleman  and  I  look  care- 
fully after  my  health  which  is  cherishing  the  image  of  Himself  that 
God  has  given  me."  Mr.  T  was  speaking  in  a  tone  of  the  deepest 
seriousness.  And  indeed  he  really  had  cherished  in  himself  the  image 
of  his  Maker.  His  gentle  walks,  his  sobriety  in  both  eating  and 
drinking,  his  careful  avoidance  of  all  disturbing  emotions,  his  daily 
health  exercises,  his  naps  and  his  Turkish  baths — all  these  things 
reially  had  made  him  a  perfect  man  of  forty-one  in  the  very  pink  of 
health.  The  flesh  of  his  cheeks  was  vivid  and  firm^  his  eyes  were 
clear  and  blue,  his  hair  crisp,  blond  and  in  excellent  condition.  His 
walk  was  springy,  his  back  erect  and  he  was  beautifully  and  unob- 
trusively dressed.  So  perhaps  this  is  the  average  man  ....  Let  us 
now  turn  to  the  avenage  woman. 

About  fifteen  years  ago  I  wanted  some  mushroom  catsup.  It 
was  in  a  scattered,  little-populated  village  of  the  South  of  England. 
The  village  stood  on  what  had  formerly  been  common  land,  running 
all  down  the  side  of  a  range  of  hills.  But  this  common  had  been  long 
since  squatted  on,  so  that  it  was  a  maze  of  little  hawthorn  hedges 


52  The    Little    Review 

surrounding  little  closes.  Each  close  had  a  few  old  apple  or  cherry 
trees,  a  patch  of  potato  ground,  a  cabbage  patch,  a  few  rows  of 
scarlet  runners,  a  few  plants  of  monthly  roses,  a  few  plants  of  mar- 
joram fennel,  borage  or  thyme.  And  in  each  little  patch  there  stood 
a  small  dwelling.  Mostly  these  were  the  original  squatters'  huts 
built  of  mud,  white  washed  outside  and  crowned  with  old  thatched 
roofs  on  which  there  grew  grasses,  house-leeks  or  even  irises.  There 
were  a  great  many  of  these  little  houses  beneath  the  September 
sunshine  and  it  was  all  a  maze  of  the  small  green  hedges. 

I  had  been  up  to  the  shop  in  search  of  my  catsup,  but  though 
they  sold  everything  from  boots  and  straw  hats  to  darning  needles, 
bacon,  haricot  beans,  oatmeal  and  British  wines  they  had  no  catsup. 
I  was  wandering  desultorily  homewards  among  the  small  hedges 
down  hill,  looking  at  the  distant  sea,  seven  miles  awtay  over  the 
marsh.  Just  beyond  a  little  hedge  I  saw  a  woman  digging  potatoes 
in  the  dry  hot  ground.    She  looked  up  as  I  passed  and  said: 

"Hullo,  Measter!" 

I  answered:  "Hullo,  Missus'!"  and  I  was  passing  on  when  it 
occurred  to  me  to  ask  her  whether  she  knew  anyone  Who  sold 
catsup.    She  answered: 

"Nawl     Aw  doan't  knaw  no  one!" 

I  walked  on  a  little  farther  and  then  sat  down  on  a  stile  for 
half  an  hour  or  so,  enjoying  the  pleasant  weather  and  taking  a 
read  in  the  country  paper  which  I  had  bought  in  the  shop.  Then  I 
saw  the  large,  stalwart  old  woman  coming  along  the  stony  path 
carrying  two  great  trugs  of  the  potatoes  that  she  had  dug  up.  I 
had  to  get  down  from  the  stile  to  let  her  pass.  And  then  seeing  that 
she  was  going  my  way,  that  she  was  evidently  oldish  and  was 
probably  tired,  I  took  the  potato  trugs  from  her  and  carried  them. 
She  strode  along  in  front  of  me  between  the  hedges.  She  wore  an 
immense  pair  of  men's  hob-nailed  boots  that  dragged  along  the 
stones  of  the  causeway  with  metallic  sounds.  She  wore  an  im- 
mense shawl  of  wool  that  had  been  beaten  by  the  weather  until  it 
was  of  a  dull  liver  colour,  an  immense  skirt  that  had  once  been  of 
lilac  cotton  print,  but  was  now  a  rusty  brown,  and  an  immense  straw 
hat  that  had  been  given  to  her  by  some  one  as  being  worn  out  and 
that  had  cost  two  pence  when  it  was  new.  Her  face  was  as  large, 
as  round  and  as  much  the  same  colour  as  a  copper  warming  pan.  Her 


The    Little    Review  53 


mouth  was  immense  and  quite  toothless  except  for  one  large  fang 
and  as  she  smiled  cheerfully  all  the  time,  her  great  gums  were  always 
to  be  seen.  Her  shoulders  were  immense  and  moved  with  the  roll 
and  heave  of  those  of  a  great  bullock.  This  was  the  wisest  and 
upon  the  whole  the  most  estimable  human  being  that  I  ever  knew 
at  all  well.  Her  hands  were  enormous  and  stained  a  deep  blackish 
green  over  their  original  copper  colour  by  the  hops  that  it  was  her 
profession  to  tie. 

As  we  walked  along  she  told  me  that  she  was  exactly  the  same 
age  as  our  Queen  who  was  then  just  seventy.  She  told  me  also 
that  she  wasn't  of  those  parts  but  was  a  Paddock  Wood  woman  by 
birth,  which  meant  that  she  came  from  the  true  hop  country.  She 
told  me  also  that  her  husband  had  died  fifteen  years  before  of  the 
sting  of  a  viper,  that  his  poor  old  leg  went  all  like  green  jelly  up  to 
his  thigh  before  he  died  and  that  he  had  been  the  best  basket  maker 
in  all  Kent.  She  also  told  me  that  we  can't  all  have  everything  and 
that  the  only  thing  to  do  is  to  "keep  all  on  gooing". 

I  delivered  up  her  trugs  to  her  at  her  garden  gate  and  she 
said  to  me  with  a  cheerful  nod: 

"Well  I'll  do  the  same  for  you,  mate,  when  you  come  to  be  my 
age",  and,  with  this  witticism  she  shambled  over  the  rough  stone 
of  her  garden  path  and  into  her  dark  door  beneath  the  low  thatch, 
that  was  two  yards  thick.  Her  cottage  was  more  dilapidated  than 
any  that  I  have  ever  seen  in  my  life.  It  stood  in  a  very  long 
narrow  triangle  of  ground,  so  that  the  hedge  that  I  walked  along 
must  have  been  at  least  eighty  yards  in  length,  while  at  its  broadest 
part  the  potato  patch  could  not  have  measured  twenty  spade 
breadths.  But  before  I  was  come  to  the  end  of  the  hedge  her  voice 
was  calling  out  after  me: 

"Measter!     Dun  yo  really  want  ketchup?" 

I  replied  that  I  really  did. 

She  said: 

"Old  Meary  Spratt  up  by  Hungry  Hall  wheer  ye  see  me  dig- 
gin' — she  makes  ketchup." 

I  asked  her  why  she  had  not  told  me  before  and  she  answered: 

"Well,  ye  see  the  Quality  do  be  asking  foolish  questions.  I 
thought  ye  didn't  really  want  to  know." 

But. indeed,  as  I  learnt  afterwards  it  wasn't  only  the  dislike  of 


54  T  he    Lit  tie    Re  vi  zw 

being  asked  foolish  questions.  In  Meary  Walker's  long,  wise  life 
she  had  experienced  one  thing— that  no  man  with  a  collar  and  a  tie 
is  to  be  trusted.  She  had  had  it  vaguely  in  her  mind  that,  when 
I  asked  the  question,  I  might  be  some  sort  of  excise  officer  trying 
to  find  out  where  illicit  distilling  was  carried  on.  She  didn't  know 
that  the  making  of  catsup  was  not  illegal.  She  had  heard  that  many 
of  her  poor  neighbours  had  been  fined  heavily  for  selling  bottles  of 
home-made  sloe-gin  or  mead.  She  had  refused  to  answer,  out  of 
a  sense  of  automatic  caution  for  fear  she  should  get  poor 
old  Meary  Spratt  into  trouble. 

But  next  morning  she  turned  up  at  my  cottage  carrying  two 
bottles  of  Meary  Spratt's  catsup  in  an  old  basket  covered  with  a 
cloth.  And  after  that,  seeing  her  rather  often  at  the  shop  on  Sat: 
urday  nights  when  all  the  world  came  to  buy  its  Sunday  provisions 
and,  because  she  came  in  to  heat  the  bake  oven  with  faggots  once 
a  week,  and  to  do  •  the  washing — in  that  isolated  neighbourhood, 
among  the  deep  woods  of  the  AVeald,  I  got  to  know  her  as  well  as  I 
ever  knew  anybody.  This  is  her  biography: 
(to  be  continued) 

Cooperatipn 
(A    Note    on    the    volume    completed) 

E.  P. 

I  see  no  reason  for  diffidence  regarding  the  fourth  volume  of  the  Little 
Review,  and  the  first  volume  of  the  present  effort. 

We  have  published  some  of  Mr.  Yeats'  best  poems,  poems  as  obviously 
destined  for  perpetuity  as  are  those  in  his  "Wind  Among  the  Reeds";  we  have 
begun  publishing  Hueffer  and  Joyce;  if  we  have  not  published  "Tarr"  it  is  only 
because  "Tarr"  was  already  in  process,  and  we  have  published  whatever  else 
of  Wyndham  Lewis's  work  has  been  ready.  We  have  published  the  small  bulk 
of  Mr.  Eliot's  poetry  that  has  been  written  during  the  current  year.  And  we 
have  brought  out  a  French  number  which  may  serve  as  a  paradigm  for  the  rest 
of  America's  periodicals. 

The  response  has  been  oligarchic.     The  plain  man  in  his  gum  overshoes. 


The    Little    Review  55 

with  his  touching  belief  in  W.  J.  Uryan,  Eddie  Bok,  etc.,  is  not  with  113. 
There  are  apparently  a  few  dozen  people  who  want,  with  vigour,  a  magazine 
which  can  be  read  by  men  of  some  education  and  of  some  mental  alertness; 
there  are  a  few  hundred  more  people  who  want  this  thing  with  less  vigour;  or 
who  have  at  their  disposal  fewer  "resources". 

My  net  value  to  the  concern  appears  to  be  about  $2350;  of  which  over 
$2000  does  not  "accrue"  to  the  protagonist.  It  might  be  argued  with  some 
subtlety  that  I  make  the  limited  public  an  annual  present  of  that  sum,  for  the 
privileae  of  giving  them  what  they  do  not  much  want,  and  for,  let  us  say, 
forcing  upon  them  a  certain  amount  of  literature,  and  a  certain  amount  of  en- 
jlightened  criticism. 

I  This  donation  I  have  willingly  made,  and  will  as  willingly  repeat,  but 
I  can  not  be  expected  to  keep  it  up  for  an  indefinite  period. 

"Et  les  vers  cerchent  le  repos". 

I  have  done  my  French  number,  I  find  it  necessary  to  do  most  of  the 
Henry  James  number  myself;  I  will  wilHngly  do  a  Remy  DeGourmont  number, 
and  even  a  Spanish  number  if  the  available  material  proves  worth  the  trouble, 
but  I  can  not  indefinitely  do  the  work  that  is  performed  on  the  Mercure  by  a 
whole  staff  of  rubricists.  (A  condensation  of  this  sort  of  hundred-eyed  la- 
30ur  is  no  saving  of  energy  for  the  condenser). 

Creation  is  a  very  slow  process.  It  is  possible,  by  doing  a  certain  amount 
)f  well-paid  but  unimportant  work,  for  me  to  buy  leisure  sufficient  for  what- 
ver  creative  processes  are  possible  to  me  .  It  is  not  possible  for  me  to  add  to 
;hat  dual  existence  a  third  function.  Leaving  polysyllables,  either  the  editing 
jf  the  foreign  section  of  the  Little  Revieiv  has  got  to  pay  my  board  and  rent, 
5tc.,  and  leave  me  sufficient  leisure  for  my  own  compositions,  or  I  have  got 
o  spend  my  half  time  on  something  more  lucrative. 

It  is  bad  economy  for  me  to  spend  a  morning  tying  up  stray  copies  of 
;he  Little  Review  for  posting,  or  in  answering  queries  as  to  why  last  month's 
lumber  hasn't  arrived.  This  function  could  be  carried  on  by  a  deputy,  almost 
>y  an  infant. 

It  "is  not  that  I  desire  to  "get"  such  a  lot  of  it  (£s.d)  as  that  I  decline  to 
lave  my  1  wn  work  (such  as  it  is)  smothered  by  executive  functions.  And 
inless  said  functions  can  reheve  me  of  the  necessity  of  writing  ephemeral 
ituff  for  other  papers  I  shall  be  compelled  to  "relinquish  them". 

Or,  still  more  baldly,  I  can  not  write  six  sorts  of  journalism  four  days  a 
eeek,  edit  the  Little  Review  three  days  a  week,  and  continue  my  career  as  an 
uthor. 


56  The    Little    Review 

There  are  plenty  of  voices  ready  with  the  quite  obvious  reply  that:  no 
body  wants  me  to  continue  my  hideous  career  as  either  author,  editor,  o 
journalist.  I  can,  in  imagination,  hear  the  poluploisbious  twitter  of  rural  re 
quests  for  my  silence  and  extinction.  This  rumble  is  however  exaggerated 
there  are  several  score,  perhaps  even  several  hundred  (certainly  not  a  ful 
thousand,  but  perhaps  several  hundred)  people  who  would  rather  I  wrote 
few  good  poems  than  a  great  fatras  of  newspaper  or  periodical  comment,  am 
these  few  score  or  few  hundred  are  (with  my  own  feelings  included)  the  onl; 
people  for  whom  I  care  three  fourths  of  a  tinker's  curse. 

(Add  to  the  verse,  perhaps,  a  little  prose,  perhaps  imaginative,  which 
■might  regard  as  literature,  not  merely  as  disputation,  didacticism,  higher  in 
struction,    post-graduate   lecturing,    acting    as   battistrada   for   new   artists   an 
writers,  etc.)  t^^  #1  Hi 

So  that,  roughly  speaking,  either  the  Little  Review  will  have  to  provid 
me  with  the  necessities  of  life  and  a  reasonable  amount  of  leisure,  by  May  Isi 
1919,  or  I  shall  have  to  apply  my  energies  elsewhere. 

De  Goncourt 

I  am  tired  of  rewriting  the  arguments  for  the  realist  novel;  besides  thei 
is  ^nothing  to  add.  The  Brothers  de  Goncourt  said  the  thing  once  and  f( 
all,  but  despite  the  lapse  of  time  their  work  is  still  insufficiently  known  1 
the  American  reader.  The  programme  in  the  preface  to  Germinie  Lacerteu 
states  the  case  and  the  whole  case  for  realism;  one  can  not  improve  the  statt 
ment.    I  therefore  give  it  entire,  ad  majoram  Dei  gloriam. 

E.  P. 

PREFACE 

De  la  premiere  edition 

II  nous  faut  demander  pardon  au  public  de  lui  donner  ce  livre,  et  I'avert' 
de  ce  qu'il  y  trouvera. 

Le  pubHc  aime  les  romans  faux:  ce  roman  est  un  roman  vrai. 

II  aime  les  livres  qui  font  semblant  d'aller  dans  le  monde:  ce  livre  vient  c 
la  rue. 

II  aime  les  petites  oeuvres  polissonnes,  les  memoires  de  filles,  les  confessioi 
d'alcSves,  les  saletes  erotiques,  le  scandale  qui  se  retrousse  dans  une  image  av 
devantures  des  libraires,  ce  qu'il  va  lire  est  severe  et  pur.  Qu'il  ne  s'attem 
point  a  la  photographic  decoUetee  du  plaisir:  I'etude  qui  suit  est  la  clinique  < 
I'Amour. 


The    Little    Review  57 

Le  public  aime  encore  les  lectures  anodines  et  consolantes,  les  aventures 
\\  finissent  bien,  les  imaginations  qui  ne  derangent  ni  sa  digestion  ni  sa  se- 
nite:  ce  livre,  avec  sa  triste  et  violente  distraction,  est  fait  pour  contrarier 
is  habitudes  et  nuire  a  son  hygiene. 

Pourquoi  done  I'avons-nous  ecrit?  Est-ce  simplement  pour  choquer  le 
jiblic  et  scandaliser  ses  gouts? 

Non. 

Vivant  au  dix-neuvieme  siecle,  dans  un  temps  de  suffrage  univcrsel,  de 
mocratie,  de  liberalisme,  nous  nous  sommes  demande  si  ce  qu'on  appelle 
es  basses  classes"  n'avait  pas  droit  au  roman;  si  ce  monde  sous  un  monde, 
peuple,  devait  rester  sous  le  coup  de  I'interdit  litteraire  et  des  dedains  d'au- 
ure  qui  ont  fait  jusqu'ici  le  silence  sur  I'ame  et  le  coeur  qu'il  peut  avoir. 
ous  nous  sommes  demande  s'il  y  avait  encore,  pour  I'ecrivain  et  pour  le  lec- 
ur,  en  ces  annees  d'egalite  oil  nous  sommes,  des  classes  indignes,  des  malheurs 
op  bas,  des  dramas  trop  mal  embouches,  des  catastrophes  d'une  terreur  trop 
(U  noble.  II  nous  est  venu  la  curiosite  de  savoir  si  cette  forme  convention- 
lie  d'une  litterature  oubliee  et  d'une  societe  disparue,  la  Tragedie  etait  de- 
litivement  niorte;  si,  dans  un  pas  sans  caste  et  sans  aristocratic  legale,  les 
iseres  des  petits  et  des  pauvres  parleraient  a  Tinteret,  a  lemotion,  a  la  pitie 
tSsi  haut  que  les  miseres  des  grands  et  des  riches;  si,  en  un  mot,  les  larmes 
I'on  pleure  en  bas  pourraient  faire  pleurer  comme  celles  qu'on  pleure  en  haut. 

Ces  pensees  nous  avaient  fait  oser  I'humble  roman  de  Soeur  Philomene,  en 
61;  elles  nous  font  publier  aujourd'hui  Germinie  Lacerteux. 

Maintenant,  que  ce  livre  soit  calomnie:  peu  lui  importe.  Aujourd'hui 
le  le  Roman  s'elargit  et  graadit,  qu'il  commence  a  etre  la  giande  forme 
rieusfe,  passionee,  vivante,  de  I'etude  litteraire  et  de  I'enquete  sociale,  qu'il 
vient,  par  I'analyse  et  par  la  recherche  psychologique.  I'Histoire  morale  con- 
mporaine,  aujourd'hui  que  le  Roman  s'est  impose  les  etudes  et  les  devoirs  de 
science,  il  peut  en  revendiquer  les  libertes  et  les  franchises.  Et  qu'il  cherche 
^rt  et  la  Verite;  qu'il  montre  des  miseres  bonnes  a  ne  pas  laisser  oublier  aux 
:ureux  de  Paris;  qu'il  fasse  voir  aux  gens  du  monde  ce  que  les  dames  de 
ante  ont  le  courage  de  voir,  ce  que  les  reines  d' autrefois  faisaient  toucher  de 
)eil  a  leurs  enfants  dans  les  hospices:  la  souff ranee  humaine,  presente  et 
ute  vive,  qui  apprend  la  charite;  que  le  Roman  ait  cette  religion,  que  le  siecle 
isse  appelait  de  ce  large  et  vaste  nom:  HumauUe;  il  lui  suffit  de  cette  con- 
iencc;  son  droit  est  la. 

E.  et  J.  de  G. 


58  The    Little    Review 

Errata : 

In  the  March   niunbcy. 

Page  57.   The  words  scenery   and  description  should  be  separated  by 
comma.     I  have  never  in  my  life  written  the  phrase  "scenery  description 
nature." — E.  P. 
In  the  May  number: 

Page  21.    Second  strophe  should  end: 

With  frost  and  hail  at  night 

Suffers  despite 

'Till  the  sun  come,  and  the  green  leaf  on  the  bough. 
Etc.,  etc.,  etc. 

The     Recu  rren  ce 

"AINT  no  sech  animal"  said  Silas  on  first  beholding  an  elephant. 
In   our  day   the   literary  hecker   thinks  he  has   finally   dismissed   a  thi 
when  he  has  called  it  a  "gargoyle".  K.  L. 

•THE    READER   CRITIC 

In  which  it  is  left  to  us! 

T.  D.  O'B.,  Philadelphia: 

If  the  artist  "has  no  concern  with  audiences"  why  publish  his  work? 
and  why  do  the  magazines  that  publish  this  transcendent  art  push  as  hi 
as  "the  vulgar  sort"  for  sales?  (See  pages  61  and  64  of  your  June  issu 
There  is  an  inconsistency  here  that  my  mind  —  a  fairly  elastic  one — cannot  av 
with.  Perhaps  you  will  be  more  successful  with  it  if  you  will  be  so  good  as 
attack  it.  Of  course  there  is  the  explanation  of  the  overflowing  of  the  des( 
— but  I  leave  it  to  you. 

[Sometimes  I  grow  a  bit  weary  of  these  kindergarten  questions  by  peo 
who  have  failed  to  read  before  asking.  My  remarks  were  about  the  artist  r 
his  creation,  not  about  economics:  the  man  and  his  bread.  All  I  can  say 
people  insisting  on  the  great  audience  idea  is  to  try  this  "to-have-grcat-poe 
we-must-have-great-audiences"  test  on  othe*-  forms  of  creation, — physical  en 
tion,  for  instance. 

To  have  great  audiences  an  »rt  magazine  must  have  a  great  sales  depa 
mcnt.     The  Little  Rcviezv  has  no  sales  department — yet? — jh.] 


The    Little    Review  59 


Szukalski's     Drawings 

From  Chicago  : 

The  June  Little  Review  has  just  arrived.  Never  have  I  seen  such  draw- 
ings. My  heart  actually  began  to  beat  faster  vi^heB  I  saw  them.  Frankly,  the 
rest  of  th6  magazine  should  have  been  blank.  Everything  else  in  it  appears 
pallid  beside  those  furious  sketches.  Da  Vinci  come  to  life  The  lines  are  full 
of  energy,  they  move  across  the  page  :  they  make  channels  for  themselves  on 
the  paper.    Magnificent!     Wonderful! 

["Never  have  I  seen  such  drawings"  and  then  "Da  Vinci  come  to  life." 
I  suppose  this  has  meaning?  Another  reader.writes  "Here  is  a  new  Beardsley." 
Loose  thinking  and  loose  comparisons  of  this  kind  damn  what  they  intend  to 
praise  and  show  up  an  ignorance  of  both  sides. 

A  line  in  drawing  is  the  path  of  an  emotion,  not  the  boundary  of  an 
object.  In  this  sense  Szukalski  has  no  line:  neither  is  he  concerned  with  line 
as  design.  His  drawings  are  the  energetic  illustration  of  ideas,  not  the  ex- 
pression of  emotions. — //;.] 

On  the  American  Number:  Comment  A 

David  Diamondstein,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.  : 

Dear  "jh"  :  Your  "American"  number  is  simply  superb.  The  drawings 
Sy  Szukalski  and  the  "Man  of  Ideas"  by  Sherwood  Anderson  are  excellent. 
Anderson  is  truly  an  American  writer.  It  is  too  bad  that  you  should  have 
wasted  valuable  space  for  Kreymborg  and  all  his  "burgs";  also  for  Amy  Lowell. 
Why  do  you  not  include  Walter  Prichard  Eaton  among  your  American  writers? 
He  is  a  poet  in  the  best  sense. 

While  there  is  great  promise  in  some  of  the  younger  set,  nevertheless  we 
must   not  overestimate   some   of   their  mediocre  brayings. 

Comment,  plus. 

After  reading  the  American  number  one  instantly  contrasts  it  with  the  work 
if  Englishmen  in,  the  preceeding  issues.  And  what  a  disparity!  Endlessness 
)f  Hecht's  desolate  adjectives,  the  sillyness  of  Kreymborg,  Amy  Lowell  the 
"emale  poet,  the  endeavors  of  Williams  to  create  a  stir,  the  Rollo  Peters  stage 
icenery  of  Wallace  Stevens.  Reiss  alone  showed  the  roots  of  something.  But 
live  us  more  of  Lewis,  Lewis,  Wyndham  Lewis,  and  Eliot!  And  what  hap- 
pened to  Jessie  Dismorr?     Cut  out  the  American  stuff,  please!    • 


6o  The    Little    Review 


A  "humorous"  comment. 

Morris  Riesen,  New  York  City  : 

Your  American  number  is  very  nondescript.  Highlights  mixed  with  tht 
wierdest  sort  of  rubbish.  I  wonder  if  you  conceived  the  number  because  you 
knew  it  would  be  a  humorous  answer  to  those  who  criticise  you  "for  printing 
too  much  foreign  stuff"?  T.  S.  Eliot  makes  a  writer  like  Stevens  look  like 
a  school-girl  straining  for  originality. 


From    the     Clergy 

We  are  always  open  to  communications  from  the  clergy,  and,  besides,  thi 
single  epistle  often  reveals  more  of  moeurs  contemporaines  than  will  a  volumi 
nous  novel.  The  following  is  in  our  forwarded  bag.  Compare  it  with  our  las 
from  the  vicarage. —  E.  P. 

Presbyterian  Church  : 

For  practical  me  to  assume  the  role  of  critic  of  the  work  of  T.  S.  Eliot  afte: 
reading  the  hearty  endorsement,  is  presumptous  indeed.  But  since  you  hav 
asked  me  to  report  the  impression  made  upon  me  as  I  read, — just  a  word 
In  reading  the  review  I  was  impressed  with  the  power  of  the  reviewer  rathe 
than  of  the  reviewed. 

The  chair  car  being  filled  on  my  journey  home,  I  was  given  temporar; 
place  in  the  drawing  room,  alone.  There  I  read  aloud  and  thus  reading  caugh 
the  cadence  of  the  verse  without  the  stilted  monotony  of  the  more  regular  versi 
But  that  was  many,  many  times  rudely  jarred  by  the  language  of  the  commoE 
place — yes,  even  the  crude — and  the  metaphors  impossible. 

I  presume  the  effort  is  to  present  the  real — but  there  always  is  to  me 
realism  into  which  poetry  should  not  enter — the  poet  has  always  given  me  tb 
soul  of  things  and  used  externals  but  to  suggest  the  finer  things  which  li 
within.  Of  course  Mr.  Eliot  by  his  abrupt  boldness  does  give  a  true  presents 
tion  but  I  would  rather  that  he  who  handles  prose  found  that  his  mis.sion  rathe 
than  the  poet  with  his  sensibilities  keyed  to  the  spiritual  values. 

This  is  an  age  of  revolt,  I  know — in  government,  socialism  and  anarchy- 
in  art,  the  cubist — in  society,  the  libertine — the  extreme  of  the  pendulum;  bu 
when  applied  to  poetry  it  seems  hke  the  mailed  fist  of  kultur  rather  than  th 
tapering  fingers  of  culture. 


The     Little     Review  6i 


Who  would  think  that  I  should  thus  have  attempted  an  expression  of 
thought  which  I  seem  so  unable  to  suggest.  I  know  Mrs.  T.  will  say  that  one 
who  has  not  yet  traced  the  first  faint  glimmerings  of  the  cubist's  art  cannot 
comprehend  the  work  that  you  have  presented  to  me,  but  when  you  have  read 
the  book  which  I  am  returning  by  mail  under  separate  cover,  it  would  be  of 
keen  interest  to  me  to  know  how  you  are  impressed. 

[In  the  third  paragraph  our  friend  the  clergyman  seems  to  confuse  Mr. 
Eliots'  profession  with  his  own.  A  creative  poet  starts  several  cuts  above 
he  preacher. — ;7i.] 

"Comment"  by  one  commented  upon. 

Max  Michelson,  Chicago  : 

On  the  whole  I  agree  with  the  editor  about  the  June  issue.  Wallace  Ste- 
vens' group  has  charm,  but  is  somewhat  romantic.  I  mean  the  charm  is  due 
o  a  romantic  sort  of  exaggeration.  It  is  not  unlike  the  Georgian  Anthology; 
hough  modernized.  Or,  it  is  tired  Chinese — if  that  has  any  meaning  to  you — 
vhich  the  mood  cannot  condone.  Williams  is  a  sound  satire,  but  seems  to  lack 
irmness;  but  this  opinion  may  be  due  to  the  irritation  on  reading  your 
:omment  on  Michelson's  work,  and  is  perhaps  unfair.  In  Michelson's  "Tramp 
iVoman"  the  "ghost"  and  even  the  "soul  business',  are  of  course  played 
)ut;  but  the  poem  has  economy,  boldness  and  directness — the  lines  you  picked 
)Ut  have  most  of  these  two  latter  qualities.  "Dans  I'eau"— writeen  about  five 
'ears  ago  under  the  influence  of  Gautier,  perhaps  the  White  Symphony — may 
ack  delicacy  but  has  soundness;  and,  please  remember  that  there  are  about 
laljf  a  million  delicate  and  intense  and  super-intense  poems  written  every  two 
rears,  but  few  sound  ones.  And  these  few  are  the  only  ones  that  matter — and 
ast. 

In  your  list  of  American  poets  you  have  left  out  Bodenheim,  Sanborne, 
ind  Evans  the  patagonian  who,  if  he  would  get  on  to  what  poetry  is,  would  be 
ible  to  write  poetry. 

I  like  the  personal  tone  of  your  magazine.  We  are  living  men  and  women 
—even  if  we  write  or  edit — and  why  hide  it? 

The  Layman  speaks — !! 

Rex  Hunter,  Chicago  : 

The  June  number  of  the  Little  Review  seems  to  me  to  be  the  best  yet. 
t  makes  a  wider  appeal.    Of  course  I  don't  mean  that  it  will  reach  the  multi- 


62  The  Little  Review 


tude — no  good  stuff  does  that— but  that  it  will  please  people  who  are  tired  of  th 
commercialized  hoakum  in  the  average  magazine  and  are  honestly  desirous  o 
getting  something  better,  yet  who  are  dismayed  by  the  printing  of  almost  ai 
entire  number  in  French. 

Ben  Hecht's  study  is  very  rhythmic  and  delightfully  decadent,  with  a  sor 
of  Huysmans  quality — the  same  hatred  of  mediocrity.  The  story  contribute! 
by  Sherwood  Anderson  has  the  richness,  like  the  richness  of  newly  turnei 
loam,  that  is  tound  in  all  his  work.  Stanislaw  Szukalski  has  a  vision  whicl 
reaches  into  heaven  and  hell  and  tells  us  their  secrets.  Like  Beardsley,  his  sou 
wanders  darkly  in  a  mysterious  rose  garden  full  of  monstrous  roses.  The  im 
pressionistic  prose  of  James  Joyce  begins  to  be  a  bit  bewildering,  even  t 
those  who  believe  that  he  is  on  the  right  track.  Esther  Kohen's  contribution  i 
promising. 

Congratulations  to  "jh"  on  the  June  number. 

At    the    Elite 

(Written    after    reading    Wyndham    Lewis's 
"Ideal   Giant") 

The  raspberry  cream  melts,  dragging  down,  to  the  roots  of  my  tongu 
the  savor  of  false  violets. 

In  my  left  hand  I  hold  a  copy  of  the  Reriezu  high  over  the  mound  c 
pink  lather  in  the  silver  cup.  My  eyes  catch  the  falUng  print,  and  th 
savor  of  Wyndham  Lewis  melts  down  to  the  roots  of  my  brain.  As  I  rea 
there  is  a  slight  arresting  contraction  of  the  nerves  u^.der  th 
stomach  caused  by  the  fear  that  They  are  watching  lest  I  dai 
out  the  door  without  paying. 

There  is  a  hush  over  the  room,  the  hush  of  many  frosted  cakes  waitin, 
for  appetites.  Most  people  are  at  home.  This  is  not  home.  It  is  mor 
peaceful. 

There  is  also  the  hush  of  your  absent  presence,  the  fluent  curves  of  you 
tenderness,  which  the  air,  this  chair,  and  I,  remember. 

Robert  Sanborne. 


The     Little     Review  63 


Literally  speaking — 

ws  Puteklis,  Cambridge,  Mass.  : 

Oh,  dear  ! 

Enclosed  you  will  find  payment  for  a  year's  subscription.  I  send  this, 
t  because  I  like  the  Little  Review,  but  because  I  have  a  hope  that  it  will 
urn  to  its  earlier  "revolutionary  track".  To  praise  its  present  characteris- 
s  is  possible  only  to  so  pohte  a  lady  as  Alice  Groff  of  Philadelphia.  She 
ms  to  look  at  everything  through  rose  colored  spectacles,  whether  it  be  the 
itic  and  Guide,  which  deserves  her  encomiums,  or  whether  it  be  the  Little 
view  which,  in  my  opinion,  does  not. 

Why?  Because,  to  use  Margaret  Anderson's  phraseology,  it  is  full  of 
)tten  stuff";  sometimes  it  is  so  ugly  that  one  can  not  read  it  through  buf 
ist  put  it  away  in  disgust.  Since  the  historic  episode  of  the  Empty  Pages,  the 
file  Review  is  flourishing  only  decadent  blunderings  under  the  magical 
nd  of  the  grand  dervish,  Mr.  Ezra  Pound.  The  fact  is  mat  most  of  the 
tings  are  lacking  aesthetically,  poetically,  and  philosophically.  From  the 
chological  point  of  view,  one  sees  in  the  articles  the  sad  picture,  which 
18  Uke  red  thread  on  white  cloth,  of  the  miserable  personalities  of  their 
hors.  Too  much  they  mention  themselves.  For  instance,  Mr.  Ezra  Pound, 
0  likes  also  to  show  how  many  languages  he  knows,  speaks  in  his  poem  as 
ows;  " — and  said,  'Mr.  Pound  is  shocked  at  my  levity.'  "  This  visiting  card 
10  manifestation  of  high  poetic  power.  Many  times  he  pictures  as  facts  the 
rrations  of  his  fancy,  as  when  he  rhapsodizes  over  a  nightingale.  To 
lUtify  his  rhyme  he  thinks  he  must  mention  the  sweetest  of  all  songsters. 
t  in  so  doing  he  over-compliments  the  little  bird  when  he  states: 
"When  the  nightingale  to  his  mate 
Sings   day-long  and   night   late." 

If  Ezra  Pound  had  ever  with  his  own  ears  heard  a  nightingale,  he  would 
e  to  admit  that  the  bird  sings  to  his  mate  only  at  night  during  the  short 
ting  period.  Whether  he  mistook  an  English  sparrow  for  a  nightingale  I 
iw  not;  the  fact  remains  that  the  poet  does  not  know  when  the  nightingale 

The  "Imaginary  Letters"  show  too  poor  imagination.  The  author  tries  to 
clever  but  his  attempts  are  too  painfully  evident.  What  can  the  Little 
view  see  to  admire  in  the  writer's  calling  his  wife,  openly,  an  adulteress? 
;s  he  think  such  a  remark  a  joke  or  does  he  imagine  that  he  has  discovere3 
ew  word  before  unknown  to  man? 
I  There  is  much  pseudo-brilhant,  but  really  dull,  material.  However  let 
ass,  if  Margaret  Anderson  is  satisfied  with  things  as  they  are. 


64  T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Review 

[I  have  heard  the  most  literal-minded,  undifferentiated  men  say  "I  li 
a  whole  life-time  in  those  few  minutes". 

"The  fact  remains  that  the  poet  does  not  know  when  the  nightingale  sin| 
It  is  neither  necessary  nor  interesting  for  a  poet  to  know  these  facts. 
glory  of  reason  is  limited  by  the  possibihties  of  the  human  mechani 
Emotion — art  emotion— creates  its  own  realities. — //;.] 

"I  have  not  read  much  in  this  number — " 

Frank  Stuhlman,  Vernon,  N.  Y.  : 

—  Dear  Editor,  how  could  you!!     Turn  the  beautiful  Little  Review,  i 

once  bid  fair  to  be  one  of  the  finest  publications  in  America,  into  a  thing 
freaks  and  fakes,  of  posturists  and  squeaking  egoists!! 

The  much  bepraised  Joyce's  "Ulysses"  is  punk,  Lewis'  "Imaginary  Letters" 
punkier  and  Ezra  Pound  is  punkiest.  You  may  transpose  the  names  and 
values  will  fit  just  as  well.  I  cannot  see  that  the  drivel  that  passes  for  ( 
vereation  in  the  Joyce  atrocity  is  improved  by  the  omission  of  quotation  ma 
Joyce's  pleasing  habit  of  throwing  chunks  of  filth  into  the  midst  of  incohe: 
m&underings  is  not  at  all  interesting  and  rather  disgusting.  Why  the  Li 
Review  should  waste  good  paper  on  the  Lewis  Letters  is  a  mystery.  I  am  i 
no  one  wants  to  read  them.  Not  even  the  enthusiastic  lady  from  Cass' 
and  the  classic  "Ocumseh  Literary  Circle."  As  for  Ezra  Pound,  I  never  i 
but  one  poem  of  his  that  was  worth  while  and  that  is  "The  Goodly  Frere 
really  fine  ballad  in  middle  age  spirit . 
y  No  freak  magazine  can  hold  an  audience  long.     It  depends  upon  shod 

taste  and  convention  for  its  success.  And  it  is  always  overdone.  It  shrii 
The  defiance  to  Mrs.  Grundy  soon  manifests  itself  in  just  coarseness  or  w( 
It  wearies  the  reader  in  a  little  while  for  in  spite  of  its  professions  there 
note  of  insincerity  in  the  whole  performance  that  does  not  make  for  permane 
It  is  not  the  work  of  real  people,  only  grinning  masks  and  posturing  mdu 
banks. 

Why  don't  you  fire  Ezra  Pound,  Joyce  and  Co.,  and  write  in  some  of  y( 
self?     You  did  splendid  work  in  the  early  numbers  before  the  hegira  to 
Francisco,  from  which  date  decadence  commenced. 

I  have  not  read  much  in  the  number  but  it  looks  somewhat  more  favor 
than  the  last  two  or  three  issues.     Amy  Lowell  is  always  good.     What 
need  is  a  literary  adviser. 

I  read  with  much  interest  the  little  notes  telling  of  the  personal  sppean 
of  the  contributors  of  the  Little  Review. 


The     Little     Review  65 


Joyce    and    Ethics 

Hart  Crane,  Cleveland,  Ohio  : 

Ibe  Los  Ang-eies  critic  who  commented  on  Joyce  in  the  last  issue  was  ad- 
quately  anav.crea,  i  reahze, — but  the  temptation  to  emphasize  such  illiteracy, 
indiscrimination,  und  poverty  still  pulls  a  little  too  strongly  for  resistance, 

1  noticed  that  Wlide,  liaudelaire  and  Swinburne  are  "stacked  up"  beside 
Joyce  as  rivals  in  "decadence"  and  "iutellect".  1  am  not  yet  aware  that  Swin- 
burne ever  possessed^  much  beyond  his  "art  ears",  although  these  vv€re  long 
enough,  and  adequate  to  all  his  beautiful,  though  often  meaningless  mouthings. 
Hia  instability  in  criticism  and  every  fortu  of  literature  that  did  not  depend 
almost  eaclusively  on  sound  for  effiect,  and  his  irrelevant  metaphors  are  no- 
toiious.  And  as  to  Wilde,— after  his  bundle  of  paradoxes  has  been  sorted  and 
conned,— veKy  httle  evidence  of  intellect,  remmns^.  ''Deeadence"  is  something 
much  talked  about,  and  sufficiently  misconstrued  to  arouse  interest  in  the 
works  of  any  fool.  Atiy  change  in  form,  viewpoint  or  mannerism  can  be  so 
abused  by  the  offending  party.  Sterility  is  the  only  "decadence"  I  recognize. 
An  abortion  in  art  takes  the  same  place  as  it  does  in  society,— it  deserves 
no  recognition  whatever,— it  is  simply  outside.  A  piece  of  v/ork  is  art,  or  it 
isn't:  there  is  no  neutral  judgment. 

■  However,— let  Baudelaire  and  Joyce  stand  together,  as  much  as  any  such 
tliing  in  Hterary  comparison  will  allow.  The  principal  eccentricity  evinced  by 
both  is  a  penetration  into  life  common  to  only  the  greatest.  If  people  resent 
athrust  which  discovers  some  of  theh- entrails  to  themselvs,  I  can  see  no  reason 
fciir  resorting  to  indiscriminate  comparisons,  naming  coloure  of  the  rainbow,  or 
advertising  the  fact  that  they  have  recently  been  forced  to  recognize  a  few 
of  their  personal  qualities.  Those  who  are  capable  of  being  only  mildly  "shocked" 
very  naturally  term  the  cost  a  penny,  but  were  they  capable  of  paying  a  few 
pounds  for  the  same  thinking,  experience  and  realization  by  and  in  themselves, 
they  could  reserve  their  pennies  for  work  minor  to  Joyce's. 

Thft  most  nauseating  complaint  against  his  work  is  that  of  immorality  and 
obscenity.  The  character  of  Stephen  Dedalus  is  all  too  good  for  this  world. 
It;  takes  a  little  experience,—  a  few  reactions  on  his  part  to  understand  it, 
afld  could  this  have  been  accomplished  in  a  detached  hermitage,  high  above 
the  mud,  he  would  no  doubt  have  preferred  that  residence.  A  Portrait  of  the 
Artist  as  a  Young  Man,  aside  from  Dante,  is  spiritually  the  most  inspiring  book 
I  have  ever  read.  It  is  Bunyan  raised  tO'  art.  and  then  raised  to  the"^  ninth 
power. 


THE  BERLITZ  SCHOOL  OF  LANGUAGES 

Head  Office  —New  York,  28-30  West  34th  Street 
Brooklyn  218-220  Livingston  Street 

Wasliington,    Philadelphia,    Baltimore,    Boston,    Chicago,    Pittsburgh,    Detroit, 

Orange,    Paris,    London,    Petrograd,    Rome,    Madrid,    Lisbon,    Brussels, 

Geneva,   Havana,  Busnos  Aires,  Rio  Janeiro,   Montevideo,   Cairo, 

Algiers,    Christiania,    Amsterdam,    Copenhagen,    Etc. 

OVER  300   BRANCHES   IN   THE   LEADING   CITIES   of  THE  WORLD 

PUPILS    TRAVELING    MAY    TRANSFER    THE    VALUE    OF    THEIR 
LESSONS  TO  ANY  OTHER  BERLITZ  SCHOOL 

SUPERIOR  NATIVE  TEACHERS 

By  the   Berlitz  Method  Students  learn  not  only  to  read  and  write,  but  also 
to    UNDERSTAND    and   to    SPEAK    tht   foreign    languages. 


Terms  may  be  begun  at  any  time  —  Trial  Lesson  free 

Lessons  Privately  and  in  ClasseSi  Day 
and  Evenings,  at  School  or  Residence 

RECENT  AWARDS: 

Paris   Exposition,    1500,   Gold   Medals;    Lille  Exposition,    1902,   Grand   Prire; 

Zurich    Exposition,    1902,    Gold   Medal;    St.    Louis   Exposition,    1904, 

Grand  Prize;   Liege  Exposition,   1905,   Grand  Prize;   London 

Exposition,   1908,  Grand  Prize;   Brussels  1910,  Hor« 

Concours;    Turin    1911,    Hon    Concours. 


No  Oilier  Typewriter 

Write  All  Languages,  All  Sciences,  All  Sizes 
and  Style  of  type  on  ONE  machine. 

Multiplex  Hammond 

''Writing  Machine'' 

multiplex  hammond's 

Many  styles,    nany  languages 
Two  typas  or  I  anguagea  «l  ways  in  the  machine 

Write  today  for  the  story  of  the  "Miracle 
of  tne  Multiplex".  We  will  be  glad  to  send 
it   without  placing  you   under   any   obligation. 

HAMMOND  TYPEWRITER  COMPANY 

558A  East  69th  Street  —  New  York  City 

Inquire  jor  our  special  terms  to  professionals. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH  THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


HENRY  JAMES  NUMBER 


THE   LITTLE  REVIE 


THE    MAGAZINE    THAT   IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  THE  OTHERS 


AUGUST,    1918 

Henry    James 
^  1843-1916 

Henry  James  (as  seen  from  the  Yellow  Book) 

Ethel  Cohurn  Ma^ 
In  Explanation  ^ 

Brief  Note  r>       d 

A  Shake  Down  \  ^^''^  ^^^ 

'The  Middle  Years"  J 
Henry  James  and  the  Ghostly  A.  R.  On 

In  Memory  ) 

The  Hawthorne  Aspect  j  i.  ^.  iii 

"The  Notes  on  Novelists"  John  Rodi 

The  Revised  Version  Theodora  Bosanq. 

The  Notes  for  'The  Ivory  Tower"  E;sra  Poh 

Copyright.    1911,  by   Margartt  Andtrton 

MARGARET  ANDERSON,   Editor 
EZRA    POUND,    Foreign   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  Nezv  York 

Foreign  office: 
5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London  W.  8. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  12/-  a  ye; 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York.  N.  Y., 

under  the  act  March  3,  i8yg. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  AUGUST   1918  No.  4 

HENRY  JAMES 

(As    seen    from    the    "Yellow    Book") 
Ethel  Coburn  Mayne  I., 

MR.  POUND  has  asked  me  to  say  what  we  of  the  Yellow  Book 
and  the  Savoy  found  specially  stimulating  in  Henry  James. 
"The  things  you  saw  clearest,"  he  suggests,  "we  may  have  missed." 

I  am  not  versed  in  our  younger  writers'  view  of  Henry  James's 
work.  This  is  probably  a  good  thing.  I  may  point  out  as  ''ours" 
the  very  lustres  that  they  also  hail;  should  I  do  this,  it  will  reinforce 
my  faith  (and  surely  theirs)  in  both  epochs.  For  we  must,  despite 
our  differences,  be  at  one  in  believing  that  artists  at  all  times  are 
after  the  same  thing  essentially;  and  therefore  that  real  lustres  do 
not  fade,  nor  even  turn  rococo  and  amusing,  like  the  lustres  on  the 
chimney-pieces. 

Shortly,  then,  what  we  found  stimulating  in  Henry  James  was 
the  new  world  he  took  us  to.  No  one  had  been  there  before  him. 
His  style  was  of  course  his  own;  he  could  not  have  been  chef  d'ecole 
without  a  personal  style.  We  took  that,  in  that  sense,  for  granted; 
but  the  style,  too,  was  the  air  of  that  new  world  in  which  we  moved 
with  fellow-creatures  round  us.  It  was  like  landing  on  the  Moon 
or  Mars,  and  finding  the  familiar  turned  into  the  strange,  yet  recog- 
nisable by  the  familiar  and  the  strange  within  ourselves.  That  is 
to  say,  he  was  a  master;  this  is  the  mark  of  all  the  masters. 

But  the  newness  had  to  die,  for  newness  bears  its  death  about 
with  It.  Here  comes  the  test  for  permanence.  If  the  younger 
writers,  landing  on  the  Jacobean  planet,  find  that  they  can  breathe 
Its  air,  get  food  and  drink,  enjoy  themselves,  go  forth  from  it  re- 
freshed to  make  new  planets  of  their  own— then  all  is  well  and 
Henry  James  is  great,  and  we,  who  could  be  dazzled  by  the  newness 
need  not  blush  because  we  blinked.  ' 

The  finest  air  of  that  planet  was  the  magic  of  his  earlier  —  not 
his  earliest  —  manner.     We  read  him  at  that  hour  of  his  career 


The     Little     Review 


as  much  to  see  how  he  would  say  it  as  to  see  what  he  would^  say. 
"I  don't  care  what  he  does  if  he  will  go  on  doing  it  like  that,"  we 
used  to  cry;  and  he  went  on  doing  it  like  that  in  Washington  Square, 
The  Portrait  of  a  Laclv,   The  Aspern  Papers,  in  the  many  tales  which 
had  for  theme  that  question— which  it  is?  and  which  is  which?— of 
the  blessing  or  the  bans  of  "success"  or  "failure"  in  the  artist's 
life;  in  the  great  ghost-stories.     All  these  were  to  us  the  source  of 
joys  as  actual  and  exquisite  as  the  joy  of  sunlight.    The  day  we  had 
a  new  Henry  James  to  read  could  have  no  utterly  bad  moment,  for 
there  was  always  the  volume  or  the  story  to  come  back  to  or  go  on 
to.    We  found— let  us  state  it  boldly— everything  we  wanted  in  them. 
There  was  the  pure   fable,  whatever  it  might  be,   and  we  never 
found  it,  in  those  middle-period  pieces,  wanting  in  the  fable-quality. 
His  themes  were  intimately  thrilling;   then  there  was  the  method, 
subtle  yet  not  over-subtle,'  lucid  yet  profound,  still  waters  really 
running  deep,  the  preparation  and  the  involution,  the  return  upon 
itself;  and  for  "showing"  of  all  this,  there  were  the  diction  and  the 
manner,  beautiful  and  lustrous— pages  that  shone  and  shimmered 
and  sparkled,  that  spread  and  spilt  and  built  before  our  eyes  the 
grass  and  flowers  and  trees,  the  streams  and  brooks,  the  old  grey 
churches  and  old  rose-red  houses  making  up  the  English  landscape 
that  for  Henry  James  was  an  elysian  "description".     The  world  is 
like  a  knell  that  very  seldom  summons  us  to  heaven;  but  he  did  not 
describe.     You  found  yourself  in  the  enchanted  place  and  never 
knew  how  you  got  there.    Was  it  better  than  the  "real"  place?    You 
often  thought  it  was,  and  people  told  you  you  were  decadent,  that 
that  was  decadence — to  find  the  words  about  it  better  than  the  thing 
itself.    You  said  you  didn't  care;  if  this  were  decadence  you  were 
glad  to  be  a  decadent.    It  was  a  time,  believe  me,  worth  the  living  in, 
when  Henry  James  was  in  his  middle  period. 

This  was  the  best  time,  for  at  both  ends  of  his  career  he  fell 
into  extremes.  At  the  beginning  his  ease  threatened  to,  or  actually 
did  sometimes,  turn  into  slickness.  The  blithe  accomplishment  would 
look  like  little  more  than  that;  you  occasionally  "wished  he 
wouldn't".  He  soon  felt  this  himself  and — didn't.  Then  began  the 
middle  period;  and  it  was  for  us  what  I  have  said.  But  it  developed; 
there  came  the  hesitation  and  retreat,  the  infinite  circumlocution. 
At  first,  it  was  delightful  (The  Awkward  Age;  The  Wmgs  of  a 
Dove) ;  but  even  already,  the  reading  of  a  Henry  James  became  like 
the  playing  of  a  difficult  piece  of  music.  You  knew  you  wouldn't 
be  able  to  p'ay  it  the  first  t'me;  you  must  practise,  you  must  finger 


The    Little     Rev  ieiv 


and  pedal.  His  aspect  had  always  better  answered  to  the  volte- jace 
in  his  method  of  expression  than  to  the  facile  early  style.  In  the 
portrait  of  him  as  a  little  boy  which  fronts  the  first  autobiographical 
book,  you  catch  already  the  apprehension,  humourous  and  mournful, 
of  all  that  he  could  "see".  I  never  beheld,  for  my  part,  any  creature 
who  struck  me  as  to  his  degree  assailed  by  the  perceptions.  The 
great,  heavy-  lidded  eyes,  upon  my  word,  were  more  alarmed  than 
piercing.  They  were  piercing,  but  it  was  as  if  he  wished  they 
weren't,  for  dear  life's  sake. 

All  this  was  faithfully  reflected  in  the  latest  literary  manner — • 
in  no  example  more  distressfully  than  in  that  critical  essay  on  the 
Younger  Novelists  which  for  us  who  had  adored  him  was  the 
sad  surprise  of  his  career.  He  selected  for  that  essay  writers  to 
whom  he  certainly  did  no  great  honour  save  in  noticing  them  at 
all,  but  that  he  should  notice  them  at  all  was  our  amazement  and 
our  grief.  And  that  he  dismissed  with  a  contemptuous  word  the 
only  one  he  rightly  noticed — Mr.  D.  H.  Lawrence — was  a  "turn  of 
the  screw"  which  still  we  groan  to  think  of. 

That  fell  mistake  came  out  of  the  alarm  with  which  he  saw  the 
onset  of  the  new  age.  with  its  new  orientation.  The  great  eyes  shut, 
and  with  them  shut,  he  chose  his  prophets.  He  rushed,  thus  blind, 
into  the  wrong  temple — rather,  into  none  at  all,  not  even  a  young 
lions'  den,  but  a  mere  plaster  meeting-house.  Nothing  that  he  ever 
wrote  is  difficult  as  this  to  read,  and  when  it  is  read,  you  are  poorer 
than  before.  True,  that  the  bouquets  thus  bestowed  are  meagre  to 
invisibility,  but  that  he  should  have  deigned  to  offer  even  those  .  .  .  ! 

We  saw  where  Henry  James  went  wrong  in  all  these  matters; 
yet  earlier  than  the  fatal  essay,  earlier  even  than  the  volte-face 
which  became  a  running-away,  we  had  perceived  another  question 
coming  to  assail  devotion.  Here  again  that  shyness  of  his  answers 
it.  This  man  of  the  world  was  what  we  must  call  shy,  because 
there  is  a  deeper  meaning  in  the  word  than  the  most  commonly  ac- 
cepted one.  He  was  shy  as  a  race-horse  is  shy — all  stares  and  starts, 
and  for  the  same  reason  that  the  race-horse  is.  He  was  too  highly 
specialised.  A  man  of  the  world:  as  I  wrote  that.  I  saw  that  I  was 
face  to  face  with  the  question  which  transcends  the  other  questions 
about  Henry  James.  "The  world":  was  he  concerned  with  any 
world  but  one,  that  of  the  drawing-rooms?  And,  being  concerned 
with  that  alone,  with  what  about  it?  He  saw  no  aspect  of  it  but 
"relations";  at  any  rate,  reacted  to  no  other.  The  younger  genera- 
tion has  abandoned  that  aspect.     "Relations"  are  not  the  yount' 


The    Little    Review 


writers'  game  (as  Henry  James  would  certainly  have  said,  with  hi 
delight  in  gentle  slang).  It  is  a  new  orientation;  we  Jacobeans  fin^ 
the  path  a  trifle  stony.  Our  own  was  briery,  not  stony;  tentacle 
were,  so  to  speak,  our  tools  and  tentacles  are  useless  against  stones 

Nevertheless,  we  had  seen,  so  far  as  it  was  given  to  us  to  se( 
the  "feet  upon  the  fender"  note  in  him.     He  was  always  drinkin 
tea  in  the  drawing-room,  we  said.     He  made  the  drawing-room 
working-model  of  the  universe;  and  was  it?     To-day  the  questio 
has  been  answered:  it  is  not. 

Here,  of  course,  we  tread  upon  the  sacred  ground  of  "subject' 
The  writer's  choice  of  subject  is  not  matter  for  discussion;  wit 
treatment  only  is  criticism  concerned.  The  dogma,  like  all  dogma 
may  be  pushed  too  far.  At  some  hour  in  the  judgement-day  ( 
writers  the  question  will  be  put:  "In  how  many  directions  could  1- 
see?"  .  .  This  number  of  The  Little  Review  is  (as  I  hope)  a  pro( 
that  Henry  James  survives;  yet  I  know  one  or  two  young  writers  ( 
the  serious  sort  who  never  read  a  word  of  him.  That  would  n( 
have  been  conceivable  in  our  day,  in  those  who  really  "meant  it 
Something  must  have  happened  and  I  hope  Mr.  Pound  will  tell  t 
what  it  is. 

Probably  the  drawing-room  is  at  the  bottom  of  it;  but  thei 
is  also  what  one  of  these  who  have  not  read  a  word  of  Henry  Jami 
describes  as  the  "bull-in-the-china-shop  stunt".  This  young  perse 
does  that  stunt,  and  brilliantly;  I  who  had  called  it,  more  respec 
fully  the  "square  touch",  cried  out:  "We  were  Aeolian  harps,  cc 
found  it!" — and  the  air  of  an  orange,  black-and-white  and  blu 
and-purple  studio  became  foul  with  shameful  words.  "Sensitive' 
"sentimental";  "tremulous":  the  hideous  sounds  swept  the  full  g 
mut  of  the  damned  Aeolian  harp;  but  even  to  say  damned  was  vaii 
I  ought  to  have  said  bloody. 

I  think  that  is  what  has  happened.  The  bull  in  the  china  she 
has  smashed  up  the  Aeolian  harp  (it  must  have  been  a  curiosit; 
shop) ;  and  what  in  Henry  James  was  only  "harp"  will  go,  and  wh 
was  not,  will  stay.  Again,  I  leave  to  Mr.  Pound  the  task  of  dise: 
tanglement. 


The    Little    Review 


IN  EXPLANATION 

Ezra  Pound 

I. 

IT  IS  suitable  that  our  discussion  should  be  opened  by  one  of 
Henry  James's  fellow  contributors  to  the  Yellow  Book,  by  a  rep- 
resentative of  the  decade  of  brilliancy  and  nuances.  My  own  essay 
is  a  dull  grind  of  an  affair,  a  Baedecker  to  the  continent.  I  have  not 
answered  Miss  Mayne's  questions  very  well.  James,  to  the  wildest 
and  most  vigorous  "bull"  of  my  generation,  was  "an  extraordinary 
old  woman  but  one  of  the  few  doing  anything  decent".  That,  I  think, 
is  as  brief  an  expression  of  the  "serious"  attitude  of  the  younger 
and  demi-aine  serious  writers  as  can  be  compass'd. 

Mr.  Hueffer  in  his  volume  on  James,  has  made  a  vigorous  an- 
swer to  the  drawing-room  or  not-going-down-town  question. 

Mr.  Rodker  deals  with  the  Notes  on  Novelists.  I  am  not  res- 
Donsible  for  his  opinions.  I  see  no  mystery  in  the  matter.  The 
Times  Literary  Supplement  had  got  so  groggy  that  something  had 
;o  be  done.  Orders  went  forth  from  Shushan  wherein  is  the  palace, 
hat  "something  had  to  be  done".  The  "Lit.  Sup."  was  on  the 
>link;  on  the  blink  so  shockin'  an'  staggerin'  that  something  had 
;o  be  done  to  boost  up  its  giddy  prestige.  There  were  but  two 
potless  paladins,  two  giddy  Galahads  available — Henry  James  and 
he  impeccable  Beerbohm.  So  Max  and  the  great  stylist  were  tack- 
ed, cajoled,  bribed,  wheedled  and  what  not.  And  tlie  Notes  on 
Novelists  were  "got  out  of  the  late  Henry  somehow,  after  all".  The 
Times  is  an  institution,  and  Henry  James  was  weak  on  institutions, 
)n  all  things  with  traditions.  The  Times  had  probably  never,  in  the 
ixty  years  previous,  asked  him  to  write.  And  the  Literary  Supple- 
nent  is,  after  all,  the  most  respectable  weekly  English  publication 
vhich  puts  up  a  "literary"  camouflage.  It  is  duller  than  ditch- 
vater.  Its  best  and  most  openminded  writer  never  gets  an  idea 
lard  and  fast.  He  absorbs  a  blur  and  is  worried.  The  elder  hacks 
•ught  to  be  given  rats'  bane.  But  still  anyone  might  fall  to  an  invi- 
ation  to  do  the  front  page  of  the  "Sup".  Henry  James  was  not 
ibove  it.  As  Miss  Mayne  says,  he  might  have  done  his  job  better, 
remember  when  the  two  articles  appeared,  but  only  on  the  receipt 


The    Little    Review 


of  the  two  MSS.  included  in  this  issue,  had  it  ever  occurred  to  me 
that  anyone  could  be  particularly  grieved  or  particularly  interested 
in  this  trifling  unlustrous  incident. 

I  set  out,  in  my  own  essay,  to  explain,  not  why  Henry  James 
is  less  read  than  formerly — I  do, not  know  that  he  is  .  I  tried  to  set 
down  a  few  reasons  why  he  ought  to  be,  or  at  least  might  be,  more 
read.  A  brief  note  done  "before  America  came  in",  before  the  pos- 
thumous works  had  appeared,  seems  rather  more  readable  than  my 
attempted  recast.  Let  it  stand  as  a  preface;  pardon  chance  repe- 
titions. 

B  r  i  e  f     N  0  t  e 

Some  may  say  that  his  work  was  over,  well  over,  finely  com- 
pleted, and  heaven  knows  there  is  mass — a  monument  of  that  work, 
heavy  for  one  man's  shoulders  to  have  borne  up,  labour  enough  for 
two  life-times;  still  we  would  have  had  a  few  more  years  of  his 
writing.  Perhaps  the  grasp  was  relaxing,  perhaps  we  should  have 
had  no  strongly-planned  book;  but  we  should  have  had  paragraphs 
cropping  up  here  and  there.  Or  we  should  have  had,  at  least,  con- 
versation, wonderful  conversation;  and  even  if  we  did  not  hear  it 
ourselves,  we  should  have  known  that  it  was  going  on  somewhere. 
The  massive  head,  the  slow  uplift  of  the  hand,  gli  occhi  oncsti  e  tardi, 
the  long  sentences  piling  themselves  up  in  elaborate  phrase  after 
phrase,  the  lig'htning  incision,  the  pauses,  the  slightly  shaking  ad- 
monitory gesture  with  its  "wu-w-wait  a  little,  wait  a  little,  something  ! 
will  come,"  blague  and  benignity  and  the  weight  of  so  many  years'  * 
careful,  incessant  labour  of  minute  observation  always  there  to  enrich 
the  talk.    I  had  heard  it  but  seldom,  yet  it  was  all  unforgettable. 

The  man  had  this  curious  power  of  founding  affection  in  those 
who  had  scarcely  seen  him  and  even  in  many  who  had  not,  who  but 
knew  him  at  second  hand. 

No  man  who  has  not  lived  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  can 
well  appraise  Henry  James;  his  death  marks  the  end  of  a  period. 
The  Times  says:  "The  Americans  will  understand  his  changing  his 
nationality",  or  something  of  that  sort.  The  "Americans"  will  un- 
derstand nothing  whatsoever  about  it.  They  have  understood 
nothing  about  it.  They  do  not  even  know  what  they  lost.  They 
have  not  stopped  for  eight  minutes  to  consider  the  meaning  of  his 
last  public  act.     After  a  year  of  ceaseless  labour,  of  letter  writing, 


The    Little    Rev  ieiv 


of  argument,  of  striving  in  every  way  to  bring  in  America  on  the  side 
of  civilization,  he  died  of  apoplexy.  On  the  side  of  civilization — ci- 
vilization against  barbarism,  civilization,  not  Utopia,  not  a  coun- 
try or  countries  where  the  right  always  prevails  in  six  weeks!  After 
a  Hfe-time  spent  in  trying  to  make  two  continents  understand  each 
other,  in  trying,  and  only  his  thoughful  readers  can  have  any  con- 
ception of  how  he  had  tried,  to  make  three  nations  intelligible  one 
to  another.  I  am  tired  of  hearing  pettiness  talked  about  Henry 
James's  style.  The  subject  has  been  discussed  enough  in  all  con- 
science, along  with  the  minor  James.  What  I  have  not  heard  is  any 
word  of  the  major  James,  of  the  hater  of  tyranny;  book  after  early 
book  against  oppression,  against  all  the  sordid  petty  personal  crush- 
ing oppression,  the  domination  of  modern  life,  not  worked  out  in  the 
diagrams  of  Greek  tragedy,  not  labelled  ''epos"  or  "Aeschylus".  The 
outbursts  in  The  Tragic  Muse,  the  whole  of  The  Turn  of  the  Screw, 
human  liberty,  personal  liberty,  the  rights  of  the  individual  against 
all  sorts  of  intangible  bondage!*  The  passion  of  it,  the  continual 
passion  of  it  in  this  man  who,  fools  said,  didn't  "feel".  I  have 
never  yet  found  a  man  of  emotion  against  whom  idiots  didn't  raise 
this  cry. 

And  the  great  labour,  this  labour  of  translation,  of  making 
America  intelligible,  of  making  it  possible  for  individuals  to  meet 
across  national  borders.  I  think  half  the  American  idiom  is  recorded 
in  Henry  James's  writing,  and  whole  decades  of  American  life  that 
otherwise  would  have  been  utterly  lost,  wasted,  rotting  in  the  unher- 
metic  jars  of  bad  writing,  of  inaccurate  writing.  No  English  reader 
will  ever  know  how  good  are  his  New  York  and  his  New  England; 
no  one  who  does  not  see  his  grandmother's  friends  in  the  pages  of 
the  American  books.  The  whole  great  assaying  and  weighing,  the 
research  for  the  s'gnificance  of  nationality,  French,  English,  Ameri- 
can.    No  one  seems  to  talk  of  these  things. 

"An  extraordinary  old  woman,  one  of  the  few  people  who  is 

*  This  holds,  despite  anything  that  may  be  said  of  his  fuss  about  social 
order,  social  tone.  I  naturally  do  not  drag  in  political  connotations,  from 
which  H.  J.  was,  we  beheve,  wholly  exempt.  What  he  fights  is  "influence", 
the  impinging  of  family  pressure,  the  impinging  of  one  personality  on  another; 
all  of  them  in  highest  degree  damn'd,  loathsome  and  detestable.  Respect  for 
the  peripheries  of  the  individual  may  be,  however,  a  discovery  of  our  genera- 
tion; I  doubt  it,  but  it  seems  to  have  been  at  low  ebb  in  some  districts  (not 
rural)  for  some  time. 


8  T  he    Little    Review 

really  doing  anything  good".  There  were  the  cobwebs  about  con- 
noisseurship,  etc.,  but  what  do  they  matter?  Some  yokel  writes  in  the 
village  paper,  as  Henley  had  written  before,  "James's  stuff  was  not 
worth  doing".  Henley  has  gone  pretty  completely.  America  has 
not  yet  realized  that  never  in  history  has  one  of  her  great  men 
abandoned  his  citizenship  out  of  shame.  It  was  the  last  act  — 
the  last  tiling  left.  He  had  worked  all  his  life  for  the  nation  and 
for  a  year  he  had  laboured  for  the  national  honour.  No  other 
American  was  of  sufficient  importance  for  his  change  of  allegiance 
to  have  constituted  an  international  act;  no  other  American  would 
have  been  welcome  in  the  same  public  manner.  America  passes 
over  these  things,  but  the  thoughtful  cannot  pass  over  them. 

Armageddon,  the  conflict?  I  turn  to  James's  A  Bundle  of  Let- 
ters; a  letter  from  "Dr.  Rudolph  Staub"  in  Paris,  ending: 

"You  will,  I  think,  hold  me  warranted  in  believing  that  be- 
tween precipitate  decay  and  internecine  enmities,  the  English-speak- 
ing family  is  destined  to  consume  itself  and  that  with  its  decline 
the  prospect  of  general  pervasiveness  to  which  I  alluded  above,  will 
brighten  for  the  deep-lunged  children  of  the  fatherland!" 

We  have  heard  a  great  deal  of  this  sort  of  thing  since;  it 
sounds  very  natural.  My  edition  of  the  volume  containing  these 
letters  was  printed  in  '83,  and  the  imaginary  letters  were  written 
somewhat  before  that.  I  do  not  know  that  this  calls  for  comment. 
Henry  James's  perception  came  thirty  years  before  Armageddon. 
That  is  all  I  wish  to  point  out.  Flaubert  said  of  the  War  of  1870: 
"If  they  had  read  my  Education  Sentimentale,  this  sort  of  thing 
wouldn't  have  happened".  Artists  are  the  antennae  of  the  race,  but 
the  bullet-headed  many  will  never  learn  to  trust  their  great  artists . 
If  it  is  the  business  of  the  artist  to  make  humanity  aware  of  itself; 
here  the  thing  was  done,  the  pages  of  diagnosis.  The  multitude  of 
wearisome  fools  will  not  learn  their  right  hand  from  their  left  or 
seek  out  a  meaning. 

It  is  always  easy  for  people  to  object  to  what  they  have  not 
tried  to  understand. 

I  am  not  here  to  write  a  full  volume  of  detailed  criticism,  but 
two  things  I  do  claim  which  I  have  not  seen  in  reviewers'  essays. 
First,  that  there  was  emotional  greatness  in  Henry  James's  hatred 
of  tyranny;  secondly,  that  there  was  titanic  volume,  weight,  in  the 
masses  he  sets  in  opposition  within  his  work.  He  uses  forces  no 
whit  less  specifically  powerful  than  the  proverbial  "doom  of  the 
house",  —  De«tiny,  Deus  ex  machina, — of  great  traditional  art. 


The    Little    Review 


His  art  was  great  art  as  opposed  to  over-elaborate  or  over-refined  art 
by  virtue  of  the  major  conflicts  which  he  portrays.  In  his  books  he 
showed  race  against  race,  immutable;  itbe  essential  Americanness, 
or  Englishness  or  Frenchness — in  The  American,  the  difference  be- 
tween one  nation  and  another;  not  fiag-waving  and  treaties,  not 
the  machinery  of  government,  but  "why"  there  is  always  misunder- 
standing, why  men  of  different  race  are  not  the  same. 

We  have  ceased  to  believe  that  we  conquer  anything  by  having 
Alexander  the  Great  make  a  gigantic  "joy-ride"  through  India.  We 
know  that  conquests  are  made  in  the  laboratory,  that  Curie  with  his 
minute  fragments  of  things  seen  clearly  in  test  tubes  in  curious  ap- 
parati,  makes  conquests.  So,  too,  in  these  novels,  the  essential 
qualities  which  make  up  the  national  qualities,  are  found  and  set 
working,  the  fundamental  oppositions  made  clear.  This  is  no  con- 
temptible labour.  No  other  writer  had  so  essayed  three  great  na- 
tions or  even  thought  of  attempting  it. 

Peace  comes  of  communication.  No  man  of  our  time  has  so 
laboured  to  create  means  of  communication  as  did  the  late  Henry 
Jaems.  The  whole  of  great  art  is  a  struggle  for  communication. 
All  things  set  against  this  are  evil  whether  they  be  silly  scoffing  or 
obstructive  tariffs. 

And  this  communication  is  not  a  levelling,  it  is  not  an  elimina- 
tion of  differences.  It  is  a  recognition  of  differences,  of  the  right 
of  differences  to  exist,  of  interest  in  finding  things  different.  Kultur 
is  an  abomination;  philology  is  an  abomination,  all  repressive  uni- 
forming education  is  an  evil. 

A  SHAKE  DOWN 
Ezra  Pound 

I  HAVE  forgotten  the  moment  of  lunar  imbecility  in  which  I 
conceived  the  idea  of  an  "Henry  James"  number.  The  pile  of  type- 
script on  my  floor  can  but  annoyingly  and  too  palpably  testify  that 
the  madness  has  raged  for  some  weeks. 

Henry  James  was  aware  of  the  spherical  form  of  the  planet, 
and  susceptible  to  a  given  situation,  and  to  the  tone  and  tonality 
of  persons  as  perhaps  no  other  author  in  all  literature.  The  victim 
and  the  votary  of  the  "scene",  he  had  no  very  great  narrative  sense, 
or  at  the  least,  he  attained  the  narrative  faculty  but  per  aspera, 
through  very  great  striving. 


10  The    Little    Review 


It  is  impossible  to  speak  accurately  of  "his  style"  for  he  passed 
through  several  styles  which  differ  greatly  one  from  another;  but 
in  his  last,  his  most  complicated  and  elaborate,  he  is  capable  of 
great  concision;  and  if,  in  it,  the  single  sentence  is  apt  to  turn  and 
perform  evolutions  for  almost  pages  at  a  time,  he  nevertheless  man- 
ages to  say  on  one  page  more  than  many  a  more  "direct"  author 
would  convey  only  in  the  course  of  a  chapter. 

His  plots  and  incidents  are  often  but  adumbrations  or  symbols 
of  the  quality  of  his  "people",  illustrations  invented,  contrived,  often 
factitiously  and  almost  transparently,  to  show  what  acts,  what  situ- 
ations, what  contingencies  would  befit  or  display  certain  characters. 
We  are  hardly  asked  to  accept  them  as  happening. 

He  did  not  begin  his  career  with  any  theory  of  art  for  art's 
sake,  and  a  lack  of  this  theory  may  have  damaged  his  earlier  work. 

If  we  take  French  Poets  and  Novelists  as  indication  of  his  then 
(1878)  opinions,  and  novels  of  the  nineties  showing  a  later  bias,  we 
might  contend  that  our  subject  began  his  career  with  a  desire  to 
square  all  things  to  the  ethical  standards  of  a  Salem  mid-week  Uni- 
tarian prayer  meeting,  and  that  to  almost  the  end  of  his  course  he 
greatly  desired  to  fit  the  world  into  the  social  exigencies  of  Mrs. 
Humphrey  Ward's  characters. 

Out  of  the  unfortunate  cobwebs  he  emerged  into  his  greatness, 
I  think,  by  two  causes;  first  by  reason  of  his  hatred  of  personal  inti- 
mate tyrannies  working  at  close  range;  and  secondly,  in  later  life, 
because  the  actual  mechansim  of  his  scriptorial  processes  became  so 
bulky,  became  so  huge  a  contrivance  for  record  and  depiction,  that 
the  old  man  simply  couldn't  remember  or  keep  his  mind  on  or  ani- 
madvert on  anything  but  the  authenticity  of  his  impression. 

I  take  it  as  the  supreme  reward  for  an  artist;  the  supreme  re- 
turn that  his  artistic  conscience  can  make  him  after  years  spent  in 
its  service,  that  the  momentum  of  his  art,  the  sheer  bulk  of  his  pro- 
cesses, the  {si  licet)  size  of  his  fly-wheel,  should  heave  him  out  of 
himself,  out  of  his  personal  limitations,  out  of  the  tangles  of  heredity 
and  of  environment,  out  of  the  bias  of  early  training,  of  early  pre- 
dilections, whether  of  Florence,  A.  D.  1300,  or  of  Back  Bay  of  1872, 
and  leave  him  simply  the  great  true  recorder. 

And  this  reward  came  to  Henry  James  in  the  ripeness  of  his 
talents;  even  further  perhaps,  it  entered  his  life  and  his  conversation. 
The  stages  of  his  emergence  are  marked  quite  clearly  in  his  work. 
He  displays  himself  in  French  Poets  and  Novelists,  constantly  bal- 
ancing over  the  question  of  whether  or  no  the  characters  presented 


The    Little    Review  ii 

in  their  works  are,  or  are  not,  fit  persons  to  be  received  in  the  James 
family  back-parlour. 

In  T/ie  Tragic  Muse  he  is  still  didactic  quite  openly.  The 
things  he  believes  still  leap  out  nakedly  among  the  people  and  things 
he  is  portraying;  the  parable  is  not  yet  wholly  incarnate  in  the 
narrative. 

To  lay  all  his  faults  on  the  table,  we  may  begin  with  his  self- 
confessed  limitation,  that  "he  never  went  down  town".  He  dis- 
played in  fact  a  passion  for  high  life  comparable  only  to  that  sup- 
posed to  inhere  in  the  readers  of  a  magazine  called  Forget-me-not. 

Hardy,  with  his  eye  on  the  Greek  tragedians,  has  produced  an 
epic  tonality,  and  The  Mayor  of  Casterbridge  is  perhaps  more  easily 
comparable  to  the  Grettir  Saga  than  to  the  novels  of  Mr.  Hardy's 
contemporaries.  Hardy  is,  on  his  other  side,  a  contemporary  of  Sir 
Walter  Scott. 

Balzac  gains  what  force  his  crude  writing  permits  him  by  re- 
presenting his  people  under  the  avayKt^  of  modernity,  cash  neces- 
s'ty;  James,  by  leaving  cash  necessity  nearly  always  out  of  the  story, 
sa'^-ifices.  or  rather  fails  *o  attain,  certain  intensities. 

He  never  manages  the  classic,  I  mean  as  Flaubert  gives  us  in 
each  main  character:  Everyman.  One  may  conceivably  be  bored  by 
certain  pages  in  Flaubert,  but  one  takes  from  h^m  a  solid  and  con- 
crete memory,  a  property.  Emma  Bovary  and  Frederic  and  M.  Ar- 
noux  are  respectively  every  woman  and  every  man  of  their  period. 
Maupassant's  Bel  Ami  is  not.  Neither  are  Henry  James's  people. 
They  are  always  or  nearly  always,  the  bibelots. 

But  he  does,  nevertheless,  treat  of  major  forces,  even  of  epic 
forces  and  in  a  way  all  his  own.  If  Balzac  tried  to  give  a  whole 
civilization,  a  whole  humanity,  James  was  not  content  with  a  rough 
sketch  of  one  country. 

As  Armageddon  has  only  too  clearly  shown,  national  qualities 
are  the  great  gods  of  the  present  and  Henry  James  spent  himself 
from  the  beginning  in  an  analysis  of  these  potent  chemicals;  trying 
to  determine  from  the  given  microscopic  slide  the  nature  of  the 
Frenchness,  Engl'shness,  Germanness,  Americanness,  which  chemi- 
cals, too  little  regarded,  have  in  our  time  exploded  for  want  of  watch- 
ing. They  are  the  permanent  and  fundamental  hostilities  and  in- 
compatibles.  We  may  rest  our  claim  for  his  greatness  in  the  mag- 
nitude of  his  protagonists,  in  the  magnitude  of  the  forces  he  analyzed 
and  portrayed.  Th's  is  not  the  bare  matter  of  a  number  of  titled 
people,  a  few  duchesses  and  a  few  butlers. 


12  The    Little     Review 


Whatever  Flaubert  may  have  said  about  his  Education  Senti- 
mentale  as  a  potent'al  preventive  of  the  debacle  of  1870,  /'/  people 
lMd  read  it,  and  whatever  Gautier's  friend  may  have  said  about 
Emaitx  et  Camees  as  the  last  resistance  to  the  Prussians,  from  Dr. 
Rudolph  Staub's  paragraph  in  The  Bundle  of  Letters  to  the  last  and 
almost  only  public  act  of  his  life,  James  d'splayed  a  steady  percep- 
tion and  a  steady  consideration  of  the  qualities  of  different  western 
races,  Whose  consequences  none  of  us  can  escape. 

And  these  forces,  in  precisely  that  they  are  not  political  and 
executive  and  therefore  transient,  factitious,  but  in  precisely  that 
they  are  the  forces  of  race  temperaments,  are  major  forces  and  are 
indeed  as  great  protagonists  as  any  author  could  have  chosen.  They 
are  firmer  ground  than  Flaubert's  when  he  chooses  public  events  as 
in  the  opening  of  the  third  part  of  Education  Sentimental c. 

The  portrayal  of  these  forces,  to  seize  a  term  from  philology, 
may  be  said  to  constitute  "original  research" — to  be  Henry  James's 
own  addendum;  not  that  this  greatly  matters.  He  saw,  analyzed,  and 
presented  them.  He  had  most  assuredly  a  greater  awareness  than 
was  granted  to  Balzac  or  to  Mr.  Carles  Dickens  or  to  M.  Victor  Hugo 
who  composed  the  Legende  des  Siecles. 

His  statement  that  he  never  went  down  town  has  been  urged 
greatly  against  h-m.  A  butler  is  a  servant,  tempered  with  upper- 
class  contacts.  Mr.  Newman,  the  American,  had  emerged  from 
the  making  of  wash-tubs;  the  family  in  The  Pupil  can  scarcely  be 
termed  upper-class,  however,  and  the  factor  of  money,  Balzac's 
avdyKTj,  scarcely  enters  his  stories. 

We  may  leave  Hardy  writing  Sagas.  We  may  admit  that  there 
is  a  greater  robuste::za  in  Balzac's  messiness,  simply  because  he  is 
perpetually  concerned,  inaccurately,  with  the  factor  of  money,  of 
earning  one's  exiguous  living. 

We  may  admit  the  shadowy  nature  of  some  of  James's  writing, 
and  agree  whimsically  with  R.  H.  C.  (in  the  New  Age)  that  James 
will  be  quite  comfortable  after  death,  as  he  had  been  dealing  with 
ghosts  all  his  life. 

James's  third  donation  is  perhaps  a  less  sweeping  affair  and  of 
more  concern  to  his  compatriots  than  to  anyone  who  might  conceiv- 
ably translate  him  into  an  alien  tongue,  or  even  to  those  Who  publish 
his  writings  in  England. 

He  has  written  history  of  a  personal  sort,  social  history  well 


The    Little    Review  13 

documented  and  incomplete,  and  he  has  put  America  on  the  map 
both  in  memoir  and  fiction,  giving  to  her  a  reality  such  as  is  at- 
tained only  by  scenes  recorded  in  the  arts  and  in  the  writing  of 
masters  .  Mr.  Eliot  has  written,  and  I  daresay  most  other  American 
admirers  have  written  or  will  write,  that,  whatever  anyone  else 
thinks  of  Henry  James,  no  one  but  an  American  can  ever  know, 
really  know,  how  good  he  is  at  t±ie  bottom,  how  good  his  "America" 
is.  ' 

No  Englishman  can,  and  in  less  degree  can  any  continental, 
or  in  fact  anyone  whose  family  was  not  living  on,  say,  West  23rd 
Street  in  the  old  set-back,  two-storey-porched  red  brick  vine-covered 
houses,  etc.,  when  Henry  James  was  being  a  small  boy  on  East  23rd 
Street;  no  one  whose  ancestors  had  not  been  presidents  or  professors 
or  founders  of  Ha'avwd  College  or  something  of  that  sort,  or  had  not 
heard  of  a  time  when  people  lived  on  14th  Street,  or  had  known  of 
someone  living  in  Lexington  or  Newton  "Old  Place"  or  somewhere 
of  that  sort  in  New  England,  or  had  heard  of  the  New  York  that 
produced  "Fanny",  New  York  the  jocular  and  uncritical,  or  of 
people  who  danced  with  General  Grant  or  something  of  that  sort, 
would  quite  know  Washington  Square  or  The  Europeans  to  bq  so 
autochfhonous,  so  authentic  to  the  conditions.  They  might  believe 
the  things  to  be  "real",  but  they  would  not  know  how  closely  they 
corresponded  to  an  external  reality. 

Perhaps  only  an  exile  from  these  things  will  get  the  range  of 
the  other  half  of  James's  presentations!  Europe  to  the  Transpon- 
tine. New  York  of  brown  stone  that  he  detested,  the  old  and  the  new 
New  York  in  Crapey  Cornelia  and  in  The  American  Scene^  which 
more  than  any  other  volumes  give  us  our  peculiar  heritage,  an 
America  wtih  an  interest,  with  a  tone  of  time  not  overstrained,  not 
jejunely  over-sentimentalized,  which  is  not  a  redoing  of  school  his- 
tories or  the  laying  out  of  a  fabulous  period;  and  Which  is  in  relief, 
if  you  like,  from  Dickens  or  from  Mark  Twain's  Mississippi.  He 
was  not  without  sympathy  for  his  compatriots  as  is  amply  attested 
by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  B.  D.  Hayes  of  New  York  (vide  The  Birthplace) 
with  whom  he  succeeds,  I  think,  rather  better  than  with  most  of  his 
princely  continentals.  They  are,  at  any  rate,  his  bow  to  the  Happy 
Genius  of  his  country  —  as  distinct  from  the  gentleman  who  dis- 
played the  "back  of  a  banker  and  a  patriot",  or  the  person  whose 
aggregate  features  could  be  designated  only  as  a  "mug". 

In  his  presentation  of  America  he  is  greatly  attentive,  and, 
save  for  the  people  in  Coeur  Simple,  I  doubt  if  any  writer  has  done 


14  The    Little    Review 


more  of  "this  sort  of  thing"  for  his  country,  this  portrayal  of  the 
typical  thing  in  timbre  and  quality — balanced,  of  course,  by  the  array 
of  spittoons  in  the  Capitol  {The  Point  of  View). 

Still  if  one  is  seeking  a  Spiritual  Fatherland,  if  one  feels  the 
exposure  of  what  he  would  not  have  scrupled  to  call,  two  clauses 
later,  such  a  wind-shield.  The  American  Scene  greatly  provides  it. 
"It  has  a  mermaid  note,  almost  to  outvie  the  warning,  the  sort  of 
nickel-plate  warning  which  is  hurled  at  one  in  the  saloon  of  any 
great  transatlantic  boat;  the  awfulness  that  engulfs  one  when  one 
comes,  for  the  first  time  unexpectedly  on  a  pile  of  all  the  Murkhn 
Magazines  laid,  shingle-wise  on  a  brass-studded,  screwed-into-place, 
baize-covered  steamer  table.  The  first  glitter  of  the  national  wea- 
pons for  driving  off  quiet  and  all  closer  signs  of  intelligence.  * 

Attempting  to  view  the  jungle  of  the  work  as  a  whole,  one  notes 
that,  despite  whatever  cosmopolitan  upbringing  Henry  James  may 
have  had,  as  witness  A  Small  Boy's  Memoirs  and  Notes  of  Son  and 
Brother,  he  nevertheless  began  in  French  Poets  and  Novelists  with 
a  provincial  attitude  that  it  took  him  a  long  time  to  work  free  of. 
Secondly  we  see  various  phases  of  the  "style"  of  his  presentation  or 
circumambiance. 

There  is  a  small  amount  of  prentice  work.  Let  us  say  Rode- 
rick Hudson,  Casamassima.  There  are  lucky  first  steps  in  The 
American  and  Europeans,  a  precocity  of  result,  for  certainly  some 
of  his  early  work  is  as  permanent  as  some  of  the  ripest,  and  more 
so  than  a  deal  of  the  intervening.  We  find  (for  in  the  case  before 
us  criticism  must  be  in  large  part  a  weeding-out)  that  his  first  sub- 
ject matter  provides  him  with  a  number  of  good  books  and  stories: 
The  American,  The  Europeans,  Eugene  Pickering,  Daisy  Miller, 
The  Pupil,  Brooksmith,  A  Bundle  of  Letters,  Washington  Square, 
The  Portrait  of  a  Lady,  before  1880  and  rather  later,  Pandora, 
The  Four  Meetings,  perhaps  Louisa  Pollant.  He  ran  out  of  his  first 
material. 

We  next  note  a  contact  with  the  Yellow  Book,  a  dip  into  "clever- 
ness", into  the  epigrammatic  genre,  the  bare  epigrammatic  style.     It 


*  I  differ,  beyond  that  point,  with  our  author.  I  enjoy  ascent  as  much 
as  I  loathe  de.scent  in  an  elevator.  I  do  not  mind  the  clerk  of  brass  doors. 
I  had  indeed  for  my  earliest  toy,  if  I  was  not  brought  up  in  it,  the  rather  slow 
and  well-behaved  elevator  in  a  quiet  and  quietly  bright  huge  sanatorium.  The 
height  of  high  buildings,  the  chasms  of  New  York  are  delectable;  but  this  is 
beside  the  point;  one  is  not  asked  to  share  the  views  and  tastes  of  a  writer. 


^ 


The     Little    Review  15 


was  no  better  than  other  writers,  not  so  successful  as  Wilde.  We 
observe  him  to  be  not  so  hard  and  fine  a  satirist  as  is  George  S. 
Street. 

We  come  then  to  the  period  of  allegories  {The  Real  Thing, 
Dominick  F errand.  The  Liar)  .  There  ensues  a  growing  discontent 
with  the  short  sentence,  epigram,  etc.,  in  Which  he  does  not  at  this 
time  attain  distinction;  the  clarity  is  not  satisfactory,  was  not  sat- 
isfactory to  the  author,  his  donnce  being  radically  different  from 
that  of  his  contemporaries.  The  "story"  not  being  really  what  he 
is  after,  he  starts  to  build  up  'his  medium;  a  thickening,  a  chiaroscuro 
is  needed,  the  long  sentence;  he  wanders,  seeks  to  add  a  needed 
opacity,  he  overdoes  it,  produces  the  cobwebby  novel,  emerges  or  jus- 
tifies himself  in  Maisie  and  manages  his  long-sought  form  in  The 
Awkward  Age.  He  comes  out  the  triumphant  stylist  in  the  Ameri- 
can Scene  and  in  all  the  items  of  The  Finer  Grain  collection  and  in 
the  posthumous  Middle  Years. 

This  is  not  to  damn  incontinent  all  that  intervenes,  but  I  think 
the  chief  question  addressed  to  me  by  people  of  good-will  who  do 
not,  but  are  yet  ready  and  willing  to,  read  James  is  :  Where  the 
deuce  shall  I  begin?  One  cannot  take  even  the  twenty-four  volumes, 
more  or  less  selected  volumes  of  the  Macmillan  edition  all  at  once, 
and  it  is,  alas,  but  too  easy  to  get  so  started  and  entoiled  as  never  to 
finish  this  author  or  even  come  to  the  best  of  him. 

The  laziness  of  an  uncritical  period  can  be  nowhere  more  bla- 
tant than  in  the  inherited  habit  of  talking  about  authors  as  a  whole. 
It  is  perhaps  the  sediment  from  an  age  daft  over  great  figures  or  a 
way  of  displaying  social  gush,  the  desire  for  a  celebrity  at  all  costs, 
rather  than  a  care  of  letters  . 

To  talk  in  any  other  way  demands  an  acquaintance  with  the 
work  of  an  author,  a  price  few  conversationalists  care  to  pay, 
ma  che!  It  is  the  man  with  inherited  opinions  who  talks  about 
"Shelley,"  making  no  distinction  between  the  author  of  the  Fifth 
Act  of  The  Cenci  and  of  the  Sensitive  Plant.  Not  but  what  there 
may  be  a  personal  virtu  in  an  author — appraised,  however,  from 
the  best  of  his  work  when,  that  is,  it  is  correctly  appraised.  People 
ask  me  what  James  to  read.  He  is  very  uneven  author;  not  all  of 
his  collected  edition  has  marks  of  permanence. 

One  can  but  make  one's  own  suggestion:  — 

The  American,  French  Poets  and  Novelists,  The  Europeans, 
Daisy  Miller^  Eugene  Pickering,  Washington  Square,  A  Bundle  of 
Letters,  Portrait  of  a  Lady,  Pandora,  The  Pupil,  Broqksmith,  What 


it  The    Little    Review 

Maisie  Knew,  and  The  Awkward  Age  (if  one  is  "doing  it  all"), 
Europe,  Four  Meetings,  The  Ambassadors,  The  American  Scene, 
The  Finer  Grain  (all  the  volume,  i.  e.,  The  Velvet  Glove,  Mona 
Montravers,  Round  of  Visits,  Crapey  Cornelia,  Bench  of  Desola- 
tion), The  Middle  Years  (posthumous)  and  The  Ivory  Tower  (notes 
first. 

I  "go  easy"  on  the  more  cobwebby  volumes;  the  most  Jamesian 
are  indubitably  The  Wings  of  a  Dove  and  The  Golden  Bowl;  upon 
them  devotees  will  fasten,  but  the  potential  devotee  may  as  well 
find  his  aptitude  in  the  stories  of  The  Finer  Grain  volume  where 
certain  exquisite  titillations  will  come  to  him  as  readily  as  any- 
where else.  If  he  is  to  bask  in  Jamesian  tickle,  nothing  will  restrain 
him  and  no  other  author  will  to  any  such  extent  afford  him  equal 
gratifications. 

If,  however,  the  reader  does  not  find  delectation  in  the  list  given 
above,  I  think  it  fairly  useless  for  him  to  ^embark  on  the  rest. 

Part  of  James  is  a  caviare,  part  I  must  reject  according  to  my 
lights  as  bad  writing;  another  part  is  a  specialite,  a  pleasure  for  cer- 
tain temperaments  only;  the  part  I  have  set  together  above  seems 
to  me  maintainable  as  literature.  One  can  definitely  say  :  "this 
is  good";  hold  the  argumentative  field,  suffer  comparison  with  other 
writers;  with,  say,  the  De  Goncourt,  or  De  Maupassant.  I  am  not 
impertinently  throwing  books  on  the  scrap-heap;  there  are  certain 
valid  objections  to  James;  there  are  certain  standards  which  one 
may  believe  in,  and  having  stated  them,  one  is  free  to  state  that 
any  author  does  not  comply  with  them;  granting  always  that  there 
may  be  other  standards  with  which  he  complies,  or  over  which  he 
charmingly  or  brilliantly  triumphs. 

James  does  not  "feel"  as  solid  as  Flaubert;  he  does  not  give  us 
"Everyman",  but  on  the  other  hand,  he  was  aware  of  things  which 
Flaubert  was  not  aware  of,  and  in  certain  things  supersedes  the  au- 
thor of  Madame  Bovary. 

He  appears  at  times  to  write  around  and  around  a  thing  and 
not  always  to  emerge  from  the  "amorous  plan"  of  what  he  wanted  to 
present,  into  definite  presentation. 

He  does  not  seem  to  me  at  all  times  evenly  skillful  in  catching 
the  intonations  of  speech.  He  recalls  the  New  England  "a"  in 
the  "Lady's"  small  brothers  "Ha-ard"  (Hnahr-d)  but  only  if  one  is 
familiar  with  the  phonetics  described;  but  (vide  the  beginning  of  The 
Birthplace)  one  is  not  convinced  that  he  really  knows  (by  any  sure 
instinct)  how  peoples'  voices  would  sound.     Some  remarks  are  in 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  17 


key,  some  obviously  factitious. 

He  gives  us  more  of  his  characters  by  description  than  he  can 
by  any  attribution  of  conversation,  save  perhaps  by  the  isolated 
and  discreet  remarks  of  Brooksmith. 

His  emotional  centre  is  in  being  sensitive  to  the  feel  of  the 
place  or  to  the  tonality  of  the  person. 

It  is  with  his  own  so  beautiful  talk,  his  ability  to  hear  his  own 
voice  in  the  rounded  paragraph,  that  he  is  aptest  to  charm  one. 
I  find  it  often  though  not  universally  hard  to  "hear"  his  characters 
speaking.  I  have  noted  various  places  where  the  character  notably 
stops  speaking  and  the  author  interpolates  words  of  his  own;  sen- 
tences that  no  one  but  Henry  James  could  in  any  circumstances 
have  made  use  of.  Beyond  which  statements  I  see  no  great  con- 
cision or  any  clarity  to  be  gained  by  rearranging  my  perhaps  too 
elliptical  comments  on  individual  books. 

Honest  criticism,  as  I  conceive  it,  cannot  get  much  further  than 
saying  to  one's  reader  exactly  what  one  would  say  to  the  friend  who 
approaches  one's  bookshelf  asking:  "What  the  deuce  shall  I  read?" 
Beyond  this  there  is  the  "parlor  game",  the  polite  essay,  and  there 
is  the  official  pronouncement,  with  neither  of  which  we  are  concerned. 

Of  all  exquisite  writers  James  is  the  most  colloquial,  yet  in  the 
first  edition  of  his  French  Poets  and  Novelists,  his  style,  save  for  a 
few  scattered  phrases,  is  so  little  unusual  that  most  of  the  book 
seems,  superficially,  as  if  it  might  have  been  written  by  almost  any- 
one. It  contains  some  surprising  lapses  ...  as  bad  as  any  in  Mr. 
Hueffer  or  even  in  Mr.  Mencken.  It  is  interesting  largely  in  that  it 
shows  us  what  our  subject  had  to  escape  from. 

Let  us  grant  at  once  that  his  novels  show  him,  all  through  his 
life,  possessed  of  the  worst  possible  taste  in  pictures,  of  an  almost 
unpunctured  ignorance  of  painting,  of  almost  as  great  a  lack  of  taste 
as  that  which  he  attributes  to  the  hack-work  and  newspaper  criti- 
ques of  Theophile  Gautier.  Let  us  admit  that  "painting"  to  Henry 
James  probably  meant  to  the  end  of  his  life,  the  worst  possible  late 
Renaissance  conglomerations. 

Let  us  admit  that  in  1876,  or  whenever  it  was,  his  taste  in  poetry 
inclined  to  the  swish  of  De  Musset,  that  it  very  likely  never  got  any 
further.  By  "poetry"  he  very  possibly  meant  the  "high-falutin" 
and  he  eschewed  it  in  certain  forms;  himself  taking  still  higher 
falutes  in  a  to-be-developed  mode  of  his  own. 

I  doubt  if  he  ever  wholly  outgrew  that  conception  of  the  (by 
him  so  often  invoked)  Daughters  of  Memory.    He  arrived  truly  at 


i8  The    Little    Review 


a  point  from  which  he  could  look  back  upon  people  who  "besought 
the  deep  blue  sea  to  roll".  Poetry  to  him  began,  perhaps,  fullfledged, 
springing  Minerva-like  from  the  forehead  of  George  Gordon,  Lord 
Byron,  and  went  pretty  much  to  the  bad  in  in  Charles  Baudelaire; 
it  did  not  require  much  divination  by  19 14  (The  Middle  Years) 
to  note  that  he  had  found  Tennyson  rather  vacuous  and  that  there 
"was  something  in"  Browning. 

James  was  so  thoroughly  a  recorder  of  people,  of  their  atmos- 
pheres, society,  personality,  setting;  so  wholly  the  artist  of^  this 
particular  genre,  that  it  was  impossible  for  him  ever  to  hold  a  critical 
opinion  of  art  out  of  key  with  the  opinion  about  him — except  pos- 
sibly in  so  far  as  he  might  have  ambitions  for  the  novel,  for  his  own 
particular  metier.  His  critical  opinions  were  simply  an  extension 
of  his  being  in  key  with  the  nice  people  who  "impressed"  themselves 
on  his  gelatine  "plate".  (This  is  a  theoretical  generalization  and 
must  be  taken  cum  grano.) 

We  may,  perhaps,  take  his  adjectives  on  De  Musset  as  a  des" 
perate  attempt  to  do  "justice"  to  a  man  with  whom  he  knew  it  im- 
possible for  him  to  sympathise.  There  is,  however,  nothing  to  hinder 
our  supposing  that  he  saw  in  De  Musset's  "gush"  something  for 
him  impossible  and  that  he  wished  to  acknowledge  it.  Side  by 
side  with  this  are  the  shreds  of  Back  Bay  or  Buffalo,  the  mid-week- 
prayer-meeting  point  of  view. 

His  most  egregious  slip  is  in  the  essay  on  Baudelaire,  the  sen- 
tence quoted  by  Hueffer.  *  Notwithstanding  this,  he  does  effec- 
tively put  his  nippers  on  Baudelaire's  weakness:  — 

"A  good  way  to  embrace  Baudelaire  at  a  glance  is  to  say  that 
he  was,  in  his  treatment  of  evil,  exactly  what  Hawthorne  was  not — 
Hawthorne,  who  felt  the  thing  at  its  source,  deep  in  the  human  con- 
sciousness. Baudelaire's  infinitely  slighter  volume  of  genius  apart, 
he  was  a  sort  of  Hawthorne  reversed.  It  is  the  absence  of  this  meta- 
physical quality  in  his  treatment  of  his  favourite  subjects  (Poe  was 
h'S  metaphysician,  and  his  devotion  sustained  him  through  a  trans- 
lation of  Eureka!)  that  exposes  him  to  that  class  of  accusations  of 
which  M.  Edmond  Scherer's  accusation  of  feeding  upon  pourriture 
is  an  example;  and,  in  fact,  in  his  pages  we  never  know  with  what 
we  are  dealing.  We  encounter  an  inextricable  confusion  of  sad 
emotions  and  vile  things,  and  we  are  at  a  loss  to  know  whether  the 


*  "For  a  poet  to  be  realist  is  of  course  nonsense",  and,  as  Hueffer  says, 
such  a  sentence  from  such  a  source  is  enough  to  make  one  despair  of  human 
nature. 


The    Little    Review  19 


subject  pretends  to  appeal  to  our  conscience  or — we  were  going  to 
say — to  our  olfactories.  'Le  Mai?'  we  exclaim;  'you  do  yourself 
too  much  honour.  This  is  not  Evil;  it  is  not  the  wrong;  it  is  simply 
the  nasty!'  Our  impatience  is  of  the  same  order  as  that  which  we 
should  feel  if  a  poet,  pretending  to  pluck  'the  flowers  of  good', 
should  come  and  present  us,  as  specimens,  a  rhapsody  on  plum-cake 
and  eau  de  Cologne". 

Here  as  elsewhere  his  perception,  apart  from  the  readability  of 
the  work,  is  worthy  of  notice. 

Hueffer  says  *  that  James  belauds  Balzac.  I  cannot  see  it.  I 
can  but  perceive  Henry  James  wiping  the  floor  with  the  author  of 
Eugenie  Grandet,  pointing  out  all  his  qualities,  but  almightily 
wiping  the  floor  with  him.  He  complains  that  Gautier  is  lacking 
in  a  concern  about  supernatural  hocus-pocus  and  that  Flaubert  is 
lacking.  If  Balzaz  takes  him  to  any  great  extent  in,  James  with  his 
inherited  Swedenborgianism  is  perhaps  thereby  laid  open  to  Balzac. 

It  was  natural  that  James  should  write  more  about  the  bulky 
author  of  La  Comedie  Humaine  than  about  the  others;  here  was  his 
richest  quarry,  here  was  there  most  to  note  and  to  emend  and  to 
appy  so  emended  to  processes  of  his  own.  From  De  Maupassant, 
De  Goncourt  or  Baudelaire  there  was  nothing  for  him  to  acquire. 

His  dam'd  fuss  about  furniture  is  foreshadowed  in  Balzac,  and 
all  the  paragraphs  on  Balzac's  house-furnishing  propensities  are  of 
interest  in  proportion  to  our  interest  in,or  our  boredom  with,  this 
part  of  Henry  James's  work. 

What,  indeed  could  he  have  written  of  the  De  Goncourts  save 
that  they  were  a  little  dull  but  tremendously  right  in  their  aim? 
Indeed,  but  for  these  almost  autobiographical  details  pointing  to  his 
growth  out  of  Balzac,  all  James  would  seem  but  a  corollary  to  one 
passage  in  a  De  Goncourt  preface: — 

"Le  jour  ou  I'analyse  cruelle  que  mon  ami,  M.  Zola,  et  peutetre  moi-meme 
avons  apportee  dans  la  peinture  du  bas  de  la  societe  sera  reprise  par  un  ecrivain 
de  talent,  et  employee  a  la  reproduction  des  hommes  et  des  femmes  du  monde, 
dans  les  milieux  d'education  et  de  distinction  —  ce  jour-la  seulement  le  classi- 
cisme  et  sa  queue  seront  tues  .  .  . 

"Le  Realisme  n'a  pas  en  effet  I'unique  mission  de  decrire  ce  qui  est  bas, 
ce  qui  est  repugnant  .  .  . 


*  Ford  Madox  Hueffer's  volume  on  Henry  James,  to  be  dealt  with  in  a 
later  number  of  the  Little  Review. 


20 


The    Little    Review 


"Nous  avons  commence,  nous,  par  la  canaille,  parce  que  la  femme  et 
I'homme  du  peuple,  plus  rapproches  de  la  nature  et  de  la  sauvagerie,  sent  des 
creatures  simples  et  peu  corapliquees,  tandis  que  le  Parisien  et  la  Parisienne  de 
la  societe,  ces  civilises  excessifs,  dont  roriginalite  tranchee  est  faite  toute  d( 
nuances,  toute  de  demi-teintes,  toute  de  ces  riens  insaisissables,  pareils  aux  riens 
coquets  et  neutres  avec  lesquels  se  fagonne  le  caractere  d'une  toilette  distuiguet 
de  femme,  demandent  des  annees  pour  qu'on  les  perce,  -pour  qu'on  les  sache 
pour  qu'on  les  atfraPe  —  et  le  romancier  du  plus  grand  genie,  croyez-le  bien 
ne  les  devinera  jamais  ces  gens  de  salon,  avec  les  racontars  d'amis  qm  voni 
pour  lui  a  la  decouverte  dans  le  monde  .  .  . 

"Ce  projet  de  reman  qui  devait  se  passer  dans  le  grand  monde,  dans  1. 
monde  le  plus  quintessencie,  et  dont  nous  rassemblions  lentement  et  mmutieuse 
ment  les  elements  delicats  et  fugaces,  je  I'abandonnais  apres  la  mort  de  moi 
frere,  convaincu  de  I'impossibilite  de  le  reussir  tout  seul." 

But  this  particular  paragraph  could  have  had  little  to  do  wkl 
the  matter  French  Poets  and  Novelists  was  published  in  7. 
and  Bdmond  De  Goncourt  signed  the  preface  to  Les  Freres  Zem 
ganno  in  '79-  The  paragraphs  quoted  are  interesting  however  a 
showing  De  Goncourt's  state  of  mind  in  that  year.  He  had  probabl; 
been  preaching  in  this  vein  long  before  setting  the  words  on  papei 
before  getting  them  printed.  ,  .        r 

If  ever  one  man's  career  was  foreshadowed  in  a  few  sentence 
of  another,  Henry  James's  is  to  be  found  in  this  paragraph.        _ 

It  is  very  much  as  if  he  said^  I  will  not  be  a  megatheriui 
botcher  like  Balzac;  there  is  nothing  to  be  said  about  these  De  Gor 
courts,  but  one  must  try  to  be  rather  more  interesting  than  they  ar 
in,  let  us  say,  Madame  Gervaisais.  *  n    .  .^  .  t     t 

Proceeding  with  the  volume  of  criticism,  we  find  that  Le  Jem 
H  simply  didn't  "get"  Flaubert;  that  he  was  much  alive  to  i\ 
solid  parts  of  Turgenev.  He  shows  himself  very  apt,  as  we  sai 
above  to  judge  the  merits  of  a  novelist  on  the  ground  that  tl: 
people  portrayed  by  the  said  novelist  are  or  are  not  suited  to  r. 
ception  into  the  household  of  Henry  James  senior;  whether  in  shor 
Emma  Bovary  or  Frederic  or  M.  Arnoux  would  have  spoiled  the  i 

*  It  is  my  personal  feeling  at  the  moment  that  La  Fille  Elisa  is  wort 
so  much  more  than  all  Balzac  that  the  things  are  as  out  of  scale  as  a  sapphi 
and  a  plum  pudding,  and  that  Elisa,  despite  the  dull  section,  is  worth  mo 
of  James's  writing.  This  is,  however,  aside  from  the  question  we  are  di 
cussing.  .      -  ■   -^ 


The    Little    Review  21 

delicate  admosphere,  have  joggled  the  so  fine  susceptibilities  of  a 
refined  23rd  Street  family  at  the  time  of  the  Philadelphia  "Centen- 
nial". 

I  find  the  book  not  so  much  a  sign  that  Henry  James  was 
"disappointed",  as  Hueffer  puts  it,  as  that  he  was  simply  and  hor- 
ribly shocked  by  the  literature  of  his  continental  forebears  and 
contemporaries. 

It  is  only  when  he  gets  to  the  Theatre  Franqais  that  he  finds 
something  which  really  suits  him.  Here  there  is  order,  tradition, 
perhaps  a  slight  fustiness  (but  a  quite  pardonable  fustiness,  an  ar- 
ranged and  suitable  fustiness  having  its  recomp)ense  in  a  sort  of  spir- 
itual quiet) ;  here,  at  any  rate,  was  something  decorous,  something 
not  to  be  found  in  Concord  or  in  Albany.  And  it  is  easy  to  imagine 
the  young  James,  not  illuminated  by  De  Goncourt's  possible  con- 
versation or  writing,  not  even  following  the  hint  given  in  his  essay 
3n  Balzac  and  Balzacian  furniture,  but  sitting  before  Madame 
Mathalie  in  Le  Village  and  resolving  to  be  the  Theatre  Franqais 
Df  the  novel. 

A  resolution  which  he  may  be  said  to  have  carried  out  to  the 
^reat  enrichment  of  letters. 

II. 

Strictures  on  the  work  of  this  period  are  no  great  detraction. 
French  Poets  and  Novelists  gives  us  a  point  from  which  to  measure 
Hfenry  James's  advance.  Genius  showed  itself  partly  in  the  escape 
rom  some  of  his  original  limitations,  partly  in  acquirements.  His 
irt  at  length  became  "second  nature",  became  perhaps  half  uncon- 
scious; or  in  part  wholly  unconscious;  in  other  parts  perhaps  too 
lighly  conscious.  At  any  rate  in  sunnier  circumstances  he  talked 
exactly  as  he  wrote,  the  same  eleborate  paragraph  beautifully  at- 
aining  its  climax;  the  same  sudden  incision  when  a  brief  statement 
;ould  dipsose  of  a  matter. 

Be  it  said  for  his  style  :  he  is  seldom  or  never  involved  when 
I  direct  bald  statement  will  accurately  convey  his  own  meaning, 
///  of  it.  He  is  not  usually,  for  all  his  wide  leisure,  verbose.  He 
nay  be  highly  and  bewilderingly  figurative  in  his  language  (vide 
Vir.  Hueffer's  remarks  on  this  question) . 

Style  apart,  I  take  it  that  the  hatred  of  tyrannies  was  as  great  a 
notive  as  any  we  can  ascribe  to  Galileo  or  Leonardo  or  to  any  other 
;reat  figure,  to  any  other  mythic  Prometheus;  for  this  driving  force 


22  The    Little    Review 


we  may  well  overlook  personal  foibles,  the  early  Bostonese  bias,  the 
heritage  from  his  father's  concern  in  commenting  Swedenborg,  the 
later  fusses  about  social  caution  and  conservation  of  furniture. 
Hueffer  rather  boasts  about  Henry  James's  innocence  of  the  classics. 
It  is  nothing  to  brag  o^,  even  if  a  man  struggling  against  natural 
mediaevalism  have  entrenched  himself  in  impressionist  theory.  If 
James  had  read  his  classics,  the  better  Latins  especially,  he  would 
not  have  so  excessively  cobwebbed,  fussed,  blathered,  worried  about 
minor  mundanities.  We  may  conspuer  with  all  our  vigour  Henry 
James's  concern  with  furniture,  the  Spoils  of  Poynton,  connoisseur- 
ship,  Mrs.  Ward's  tea-party  atmosphere,  the  young  Bostonian  of  the 
immature  works.  We  may  relegate  these  things  mentally  to  the 
same  realm  as  the  author's  pyjamas  and  collar  buttons,  to  his  in- 
tellectual instead  of  his  physical  valeting.  There  remains  the  capa- 
cious intelligence,  the  searching  analysis  of  things  that  cannot  be  so 
relegated  to  the  scrap-heap  and  to  the  wash-basket. 

Let  us  say  that  English  freedom  legally  and  traditionally  has  its 
basis  in  property.  Let  us  say,  a  la  Balzac,  that  most  modern  exis- 
tence is  governed  by,  or  at  least  interfered  with  by,  the  necessity  to 
earn  money;  let  us  also  sa}^  that  a  Frenchman  is  not  an  Englishman 
or  a  German  or  an  American,  and  that  despite  the  remark  that  the 
aristocracies  of  all  people,  the  upper  classes,  are  the  same  every- 
where, racial  differences  are  au  fond  differences;  they  are  likewise 
major  subjects. 

Writing,  as  I  am,  for  the  reader  of  good-will,  for  the  bewildered 
person  who  wants  to  know  where  to  begin,  I  need  not  apologise  for 
the  following  elliptical  notes.  James,  in  his  prefaces,  has  written 
explanation  to  death  (with  sometimes  a  very  pleasant  necrography) , 
Leaving  the  French  Poets  and  Novelists,  I  take  the  novels  and 
stories  as  nearly  as  possible  in  their  order  of  publication  (as  distinct 
from  their  order  as  rearranged  and  partially  weeded  out  in  the  col- 
lected edition). 

1875.  (U.  S.  A.)  A  Passionate  Pilgrim  and  other  Tales.  Eugene 
Pickering  is  the  best  of  this  lot  and  most  indicative  of  the  future 
James.  Contains  also  the  title  story  and  Madame  de  Mauves. 
Other  stories  inferior. 

1876.  (U.  S.  A.)  Roderick  Hudson,  prentice  work.  First 
novel  not  up  to  the  level  of  Pickering. 

1877.  The  American;  essential  James,  part  of  the  permanent 
work.    Watch  and  Ward,  discarded  by  the  author. 

1878.  French  Poets  and  Novelists,  already  discussed. 


T  he    Lit  tie     Review  23 


i8y8.  Daisy  Miller.  (The  big  hit  and  one  of  his  best.)  An  In- 
ternational Episode,  Four  Meetings,  good  work. 

iSyg.  Short  stories  first  printed  in  England  with  additions,  but 
no  important  ones. 

1880.  Confidence,  not  important. 

188 1.  Washington  Square,  one  of  his  best  "putting  America 
on  the  map",  giving  us  a  real  past,  a  real  background.  Pension 
Beaurepas  and  Bundle  oj  Letters,  especially  the  girls'  letters,  excel- 
lent, already  mentioned. 

1 88 1.  The  Portrait  oj  a  Lady,  one  of  his  best.  Charming  Vene- 
tian preface  in  the  collected  edition. 

1884.  Tales  oj  Three  Cities,  stories  dropped  from  the  collected 
edition,  save  Lady  Barber ina. 

1885.  Stories  Revived,  adding  to  earlier  tales  The  Author  oj 
Beltrajjio,  which  opens  with  excess  of  the  treading-on-eggs  manner, 
too  much  to  be  borne  for  twenty-four  volumes.  The  pretence  of 
extent  of  "people"  interested  in  art  and  letters,  sic:  "It  was  the  most 
•complete  presentation  that  had  yet  been  made  of  the  gospel  of  art; 
it  was  a  kind  of  aesthetic  war  cry.  People  had  endeavoured  to  sail 
nearer  'to  truth',  etc." 

He  implies  too  much  of  art  smeared  on  limited  multitudes.  One 
wonders  if  the  eighties  did  in  any  great  aggregate  gush  up  to  this 
extent.     Doesn't  he  try  to  spread  the  special  case  out  too  wide? 

The  thinking  is  magnificently  done  from  this  passage  up  to  page 
sixteen  or  twenty,  stated  with  great  concision.  Compare  it  with 
Madame  Gervaisais  and  we  find  Henry  James  much  more  interest- 
ing when  on  the  upper  reaches.  Compare  his  expressiveness,  the  ex- 
pressiveness of  his  indirectness  with  that  of  constatation.  The 
two  methods  are  curiously  mixed  in  the  opening  of  Beltrajji.  Such 
sentences  as  (page  30)  "He  said  the  most  interesting  and  inspir- 
ing things"  are,  however,  pure  waste,  pure  "leaving  the  thing 
undone",  unconcrete,  unimagined;  just  simply  bad  writing  or  bad 
novelisting.  As  for  his  special  case,  he  does  say  a  deal  about  the 
author  or  express  a  deal  by  him,  but  one  is  bothered  by  the  fact 
that  Pater,  Burton,  Hardy,  Meredith  were  not,  in  mere  history, 
bundled  into  one;  that  Burton  had  been  to  the  East  and  the  others 
had  not;  that  no  English  novelist  of  that  era  would  have  taken  the 
least  notice  of  anything  going  on  in  foreign  countries,  presumably 
European,  as  does  the  supreme  author  of  Beltrajjio. 

Doubtless  he  is  in  many  ways  the  author  Henry  James  would 
have  liked  to  meet  and  more  illustrative  of  certain  English  tones 


34  The    Little    Review 


and  limitations  than  any  historical  portrait  might  have  been.  Still 
Henry  James  does  lay  it  on  .  .  .  more,  I  think,  than  the  story 
absolutely  requires.  In  Beltrajjio  he  certainly  does  present  (not 
that  he  does  not  comment  to  advantage)  the  two  damn'd  women 
appended  to  the  gentlemanly  hero  of  the  tale  .  The  most  violent 
post-Strindbergian  school  would  perhaps  have  called  them  bitches 
tout  bonnement,  but  this  word  did  not  belong  to  Henry  James's 
vocabulary  and  besides  it  is  of  too  great  an  indistinctness.  Author, 
same  "bloody"  (in  the  English  sense)  author  with  his  passion  for 
"form"  appears  in  Lesson  of  Master,  and  most  of  H.  J.'s  stories  of 
literary  milieux.  Perpetual  Grandisonism  or  Grandisonising  of  this 
author  with  the  passion  for  form,  all  of  'em  have  it.  Ma  che! 
There  is  however  great  intensity  in  these  same  "be-deared"  and  be- 
"poor-old"-ed  pages.  Really  got  a  main  theme,  a  great  theme,  he 
chooses  to  do  it  in  silver  point  rather  than  in  the  garish  colours  of, 
—well,  of  Cherbuliez,  or  the  terms  of  a  religious  maniac  with  three- 
foot  long  carving  knife. 

Novel  of  the  gilded  pill,  an  aesthetic  or  artistic  message,  dogma, 
no  better  than  a  moral  or  ethic  one,  novel  a  cumbrous  camouflage 
substitute  not  for  "that  parlour  game"  *  the  polite  essay,  but  for 
the  impolite  essay  or  conveyance  of  ideas;  novel  to  do  this  should 
completely  incarnate  the  abstraction. 

Finish  of  Beltrajjio  not  perhaps  up  to  the  rest  of  it.  Not  that 
one  at  all  knows  how  else  .  .  . 

Gush  on  page  42!  from  both  conversationalists.  Still  an  ad- 
umbration of  the  search  for  the  just  word  emerges  on  pages  43-44, 
real  cut  at  barbarism  and  bigotry  on  the  bottom  of  page  45  (of 
course  not  labelled  by  these  monstrous  and  rhetorical  brands, 
scorched  on  to  their  hides  and  rump  sides).  "Will  it  be  a  sin  to 
make  the  most  of  that  one  too,  so  bad  for  the  dear  old  novel".  But- 
ler and  James  on  the  same  side  really  chucking  out  the  fake- 
Butler  focussed  on  Church  of  England;  opposed  to  him  the  fakers 
booming  the  Bible  "as  literature"  in  a  sort  of  last  stand,  a  last 
ditch;  seeing  it  pretty  well  had  to  go  as  history,  cosmogony,' etc.,  or 
the  old  tribal  Daddy-slap-'em-with-slab  of  the  Jews  as  anything 
like  an  ideal: — 


*  T.  S.  Eliot. 

t  Page  numbers  in  Collected  Edition. 


T  he    Little    Review  »$ 

"He  told  me  more  about  his  wife  before  we  arrived  at  the  gate  of  home, 
and  if  he  be  judged  to  have  aired  overmuch  his  grievance  I'm  afraid  I  must 
admit  that  he  had  some  of  the  foibles  as  well  as  the  gifts  of  the  artistic  tem- 
perament; adding,  however,  instantly  that  hitherto,  to  the  best  of  my  belief, 
he  had  rarely  let  this  particular  cat  out  of  the  bag.  'She  thinks  me  immoral 
—that's  the  long  and  short  of  it',  he  said  as  we  paused  outside  a  moment 
and  his  hand  rested  on  one  of  the  bars  of  his  gate;  while  his  conscious  ex- 
pressive perceptive  eyes — the  eyes  of  a  foreigner,  I  had  begun  to  account  them, 
much  more  than  of  the  usual  Englishman — viewing  me  now  evidently  as  quite 
a  familiar  friend,  took  part  in  the  declaration.  'It's  very  strange  when  one 
thinks  it  all  over,  and  there's  a  grand  comicality  in  it  that  I  should  like  to 
bring  out.  She's  a  very  nice  woman,  extraordinarily  well-behaved,  upright 
and  clever  and  with  a  tremendous  lot  of  good  sense  about  a  good  many  mat- 
ters. Yet  her  conception  of  a  novel — she  has  explained  it  to  me  once  or  twice, 
and  she  doesn't  do  it  badly  as  exposition — is  a  thing  so  false  that  it  makes 
me  blush.  It's  a  thing  so  hollow,  so  dishonest,  so  lying,  in  which  life  is  so 
blinked  and  blinded,  so  dodged  and  disfigured,  that  it  makes  my  ears  burn. 
It's  two  different  ways  of  looking  at  the  whole  affair,'  he  repeated,  pushing 
open  the  gate.  'And  they're  irreconcilable!'  he  added  with  a  sigh.  We  went 
forward  to  the  house,  but  on  the  walk,  halfway  to  the  door,  he  stopped  and 
said  to  me:  'If  you're  going  into  this  kind  of  thing  there's  a  fact  you  should 
know  beforehand;  it  may  save  you  some  disappointment.  There's  a  hatred 
of  art,  there's  a  hatred  of  literature — I  mean  of  the  genuine  kinds.  Oh  the 
,shams — those  they'll  swallow  by  the  bucket!'  I  looked  up  at  the  charming 
house,  with  its  genial  colour  and  crookedness,  and  I  answered  with  a  smile 
that  those  evil  passions  might  exist,  but  that  I  should  never  have  expected 
to  find  them  there.  'Ah  it  doesn't  matter  after  all,'  he  a  bit  nervously  laughed; 
which  I  was  glad  to  hear,  for  I  was  reproaching  myself  with  having  worked 
him  up." 

Really  literature  in  the  XlXth  and  the  beginning  of  the  XXth 
centuries  is  where  science  was  in  the  days  of  Galileo  and  the  In- 
quisition. Henry  James  not  blinking  it,  neither  can  we.  "Poor 
dears"  and  "dear  olds"  always  a  little  too  plentiful . 

i88j.  (continued)  Pandora,  of  the  best.  Let  it  pass  as  a  sop 
to  America's  virginal  charm;  as  counter-weight  to  Daisy  Miller, 
or  to  the  lady  of  The  Portrait.    Henry  James  alert  to  the  German. 

"The  process  of  enquiry  had  already  begun  for  him,  in  spite  of  his  haring 
as  yet  spoken  to  none  of  his  fellow  passengers;  the  case  being  that  Vogelstein 
enquired  not  only  with  his  tongue,  but  with  his  eyes — that  is  with  his 
spectacles — with  his  ears,  with  his  nose,  with  his  palate,  with  all  his  senses 


26  The    Little    Review 


and  organs.  He  was  a  highly  upright  young  man,  whose  only  fault  was  that 
his  sense  of  comedy,  or  of  the  humour  of  things,  had  never  been  specifically 
disengaged  from  his  several  other  senses.  He  vaguely  felt  that  something 
should  be  done  about  this,  and  in  a  general  manner  proposed  to  do  it,  for  he 
was  on  his  way  to  explore  a  society  abounding  in  comic  aspects.  This  con- 
sciousness of  a  missing  measure  gave  him  a  certain  mistrust  of  what  might 
be  said  of  him;  and  if  circumspection  is  the  essence  of  diplomacy  our  young 
aspirant  promised  well.  His  mind  contained  several  millions  of  facts,  packed 
too  closely  together  for  the  light  breeze  of  the  imagination  to  draw  through 
the  mass.  He  was  impatient  to  report  himself  to  his  superior  in  Washington, 
and  the  loss  of  time  in  an  English  port  could  only  incommode  him,  inasmuch 
as  the  study  of  English  institutions  was  no  part  of  his  mission.  On  the  other 
hand  the  day  was  charming;  the  blue  sea,  in  Southampton  Water,  pricked 
all  over  with  light,  had  no  movement  but  that  of  its  infinite  shimmer.  More- 
over he  was  by  no  means  sure  that  he  should  be  happy  in  the  United  States, 
>vhere  doubtless  he  should  find  himself  soon  enough  disembarked.  He  knew  that 
this  was  not  an  important  question  and  that  happiness  was  an  unscientific 
term,  such  as  a  man  of  his  education  should  be  ashamed  to  use  even  in 
the  silence  of  his  thoughts.  Lost  none  the  less  in  the  inconsiderate  crowd 
,and  feehng  himself  neither  in  his  own  country  nor  in  that  to  which  he  was 
in  a  manner  accredited,  he  was  reduced  to  his  mere  personality;  so  that 
during  the  hour,  to  save  his  importance,  he  cultivated  such  ground  as  lay 
in  sight  for  a  judgment  of  this  delay  to  which  the  German  steamer  was 
subjected  in  English  waters.  Mightn't  it  be  proved,  facts,  figures  and  docu- 
ments— or  at  least  watch— in  hand,  considerably  greater  than  the  occasion 
demanded? 

"Count  Vogelstein  was  still  young  enough  in  diplomacy  to  think  it  ne- 
cessary to  have  opinions.  He  had  a  good  many  indeed  which  had  been  formed 
without  difficulty;  they  had  been  received  ready-made  from  a  line  of  ancestors 
who  knew  what  they  liked.  This  was  of  course — and  under  pressure,  being 
candid,  he  would  have  admitted  it — an  unscientific  way  of  furnishing  one's 
mind.  Our  young  man  was  a  stiff  conservative,  a  Junker  of  Junkers;  he 
thought  modern  democracy  a  temporary  phase  and  expected  to  find  many 
arguments  against  it  in  the  great  Republic.  In  regard  to  these  things  it  was 
a  pleasure  to  him  to  feel  that,  with  his  complete  training,  he  had  been  taught 
thoroughly  to  appreciate  the  nature  of  evidence.  The  ship  was  heavily  laden 
with  German  emigrants,  whose  mission  in  the  United  States  differed  considerably 
from  Count  Otto's.  They  hung  over  the  bulwarks,  densely  grouped;  they 
leaned  forward  on  their  elbows  for  hours,  their  shoulders  kept  on  a  level  with 
their  ears:  the  men  in  furred  caps,  smoking  long-bowled  pipes,  the  women 
with  babies  hidden  in  remarkably  ugly  shawls.     Some  were  yellow  Germans 


The    Little    Review  27 


and  some  were  black,  and  all  looked  greasy  and  matted  with  the  sea-damp. 
They  were  destined  to  swell  still  further  the  huge  current  of  the  Western 
democracy;  and  Count  Vogelstein  doubtless  said  to  himself  that  they  wouldn't 
improve  its  quality.  Their  numbers,  however,  were  striking,  and  I  know 
not  what  he  thought  of  the  nature  of  this  particular  evidence." 

For  further  style  in  vignette: 

"He  could  see  for  himself  that  Mr,  and  Mrs.  Day  had  not  at  all  her  grand 
air.  They  were  fat  plain  serious  people  who  sat  side  by  side  on  the  deck  for 
hours  and  looked  straight  before  them.  Mrs.  Day  had  a  white  face,  large 
cheeks  and  small  eyes;  her  forehead  was  surrounded  with  a  multitude  of  little 
tight  black  curls;  her  lips  moved  as  if  she  had  always  a  lozenge  in  her  mouth. 
She  wore  entwined  about  her  head  an  article  which  Mrs.  Dangerfield  spoke  of 
as  a  'nuby',  a  knitted  pink  scarf  concealing  her  hair,  encircling  her  neck  and 
having  among  its  convolutions  a  hole  for  her  perfectly  expressionless  face. 
Her  hands  were  folded  on  her  stomach,  and  in  her  still,  swathed  figure  her  bead- 
like eyes,  which  occasionally  changed  their  direction,  alone  represented  life. 
Her  husband  had  a  stiff  grey  beard  on  his  chin  and  a  bare  spacious  upper  lip, 
to  which  constant  shaving  had  imparted  a  hard  glaze.  His  eyebrows  were 
thick  and  his  nostrils  wide,  and  when  he  was  uncovered,  in  the  saloon,  it  was 
visible  that  his  grizzled  hair  was  dense  and  perpendicular.  He  might  have 
looked  rather  grim  and  truculent  hadn't  it  been  for  the  mild  familiar  ac- 
commodating gaze  with  which  his  large  light-coloured  pupils — the  leisurely 
eyes  of  a  silent  man — appeared  to  consider  surrounding  objects.  He  was 
evidently  more  friendly  than  fierce,  but  he  was  more  diffident  than  friendly. 
He  liked  to  have  you  in  sight,  but  wouldn't  have  pretended  to  understand  you 
much  or  to  classify  you,  and  would  have  been  sorry  it  should  put  you  under  an 
obligation.  He  and  his  wife  spoke  sometimes,  but  seldom  talked,  and  there 
was  something  vague  and  patient  about  them  as  if  they  had  become  victims 
of  a  wrought  spell.  The  spell  however  was  of  no  sinister  cast;  it  was  the 
fascination  of  prosperity,  the  confidence  of  security,  which  sometimes  makes 
people  arrogant,  but  which  had  had  such  a  different  effect  on  this  simple 
satisfied  pair,  in  whom  further  development  of  every  kind  appeared  to  have 
been  happily  arrested." 

Pandora's  approach  to  her  parents: 

"These  little  offices  were  usually  performed  deftly,  rapidly,  with  the 
minimum  of  words,  and  when  their  daughter  drew  near  them,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Day  closed  their  eyes  after  the  fashion  of  a  pair  of  household  dogs  who 
expect  to  be  scratched." 


28  The    Little    Review 

The  tale  is  another  synthesis  of  some  of  the  milUon  reasons 
why  Germany  will  never  conquer  the  world,  why  the  Hun  is  impos- 
s'ble,  why  "bosche"  is  merely  "bursch".  The  imbecility  oi  a  certain 
Wellsian  journalist  in  treating  this  gem  is  again  proof  that  it  is 
written  for  the  relatively-developed  American,  not  for  the  island 
ecaillere.  If  Henry  James,  as  Ford  Madox  Hueffer  says,  set  out  to 
civilize  the  United  States,  it  is  at  least  an  easier  job  than  raising 
British  Suburbia  to  a  bearable  level.  From  that  milieu  at  least 
we  have  nothing  of  value  to  learn;  we  shall  not  take  our  tonality 
from  that  Niveau. 

In  describing  Pandora's  success  as  "purely  personal"  Henry 
James  has  hit  on  the  secret  of  the  Quattrocento,  1450  to  1550,  the 
vital  part  of  the  Renaissance.  Aristocracy  decays  when  it  ceases 
to  be  selective,  when  the  basis  of  selection  is  not  personal.  It  is  a 
critical  acuteness,  not  a  snobbism  which  last  is  selection  on  some 
other  principle  than  that  of  a  personal  quality.  It  is  servility  to 
rule-of-thumb  criteria,  and  a  dullness  of  perception,  a  timidity  in 
acceptance.  The  whole  force  of  the  Renaissance  was  in  the  per- 
sonality of  its  selection. 

There  is  no  faking  the  amount  of  perceptive  energy  concen- 
trated in  Henry  James's  vignettes  in  such  phrases  as  that  on  the 
parents  like  domestic  dogs  waiting  to  be  scratched,  or  in  the  ten 
thousand  phrases  of  this  sort  which  abound  in  his  writing.  If  we 
were  back  in  the  time  of  Bruyere,  we  could  easily  make  a  whole 
book  of  "Characters"  from  Henry  James's  vignettes.  *  The  vein 
holds  from  beginning  to  end  of  his  work;  from  this  writing  of 
the  eighties  to  The  Ivory  Tower.    As  for  example  Gussie  Braddon: 

"Rosanna  waited  facing  her,  noting  her  extraordinary  perfection  of  neat- 
ness, of  elegance,  of  arrangement,  of  which  it  couldn't  be  said  whether  they 
most  handed  over  to  you,  as  on  some  polished  salver,  the  clear  truth  of  her 
essential  commonness  or  transposed  it  into  an  element  that  could  please,  that 
could  even  fascinate,  as  a  supreme  attestation  of  care.  'Take  her  as  an 
advertisement  of  all  the  latest  knowledges  of  how  to  "treat"  every  inch  of  the 

*  Since  writing  the  above  I  find  that  some  such  compilation  has  been 
attempted;  had  indeed  been  planned  by  the  anthologist,  and,  in  plan, . approved 
by  H.  J.:  "Pictures  and  Passages  from  Henry  James"  selected  by  Ruth  Head, 
(ChattO  and  Windus,  1916),  if  not  exactly  the  book  to  convince  the  rising 
generation  of  H.  J.'s  powers  of  survival,  is  at  any  rate  a  most  charming ' 
tribute  to  our  subject  from  one  who  had  begun  to  read  him  in  "the  eighties". 


The    Little    Review  29 


human  surface  and  where  to  "get"  every  scrap  of  the  personal  envelope,  so 
far  as  she  is  enveloped,  and  she  does  achieve  an  effect  sublime  in  itself  and 
thereby  absolute  in  a  wavering  world.'  " 

We  note  no  inconsiderable  progress  in  the  actual  writing,  in 
maestria,  when  we  reach  the  ultimate  volumes. 

■   1886.     Bostonians.     Other  stories  in  this  collection  mostly  re- 
jected from  collected  edition  . 

Princess  Casamassima,  inferior  continuation  of  Roderick  Hud- 
son.   His  original  subject  matter  is  beginning  to  go  thin. 

1888.     The  Reverberator,  process  of  fantasia  beginning. 

1888.  As  pern  Papers,  inferior.  Louisa  Pallant,  a  study  In  the 
maternal  or  abysmal  relation,  good  James.  Modern  Warning,  re- 
jected from  collected  edition. 

i88q.     a  London  Life.     The  Patagonia. 

The  Patagonia  not  a  masterpiece.  Slow  in  opening,  excellent  in 
parts,  but  the  sense  of  the  finale  intrudes  all  along.  It  seems  true 
but  there  is  no  alternative  ending.  One  doubts  whether  a  story  is 
really  constructed  with  any  mastery  when  the  end,  for  the  purpose 
of  making  it  a  story,  is  so  unescapeable.  The  effect  of  reality  is 
produced  of  course,  by  the  reality  of  the  people  in  the  opening  scene; 
there  is  no  doubt  about  that  part  being  "to  the  life". 

The  Liar  is  superb  in  its  way,  perhaps  the  best  of  the  allegories, 
of  the  plots  invented  purely  to  be  an  exposition  of  impression.  It 
is  magnificent  in  its  presentation  of  the  people,  both  the  old  man  and 
the  Liar,  who  is  masterly. 

Mrs.  Temperly  is  another  such  excellent  delineation  and  shows 
James  as  an  excellent  hater,  but  expresses  a  concentration  of  annoy- 
ance with  a  greater  polish  and  suavity  in  method;  and  neither  ex- 
plains, theorises,  nor  comments. 

James  never  has  De  Maupassant's  reality.  His  (H.  J.'s)  people 
almost  always  convince,  i.e.,  we  believe  implicitly  that  they  exist. 
We  also  think  that  Henry  James  has  made  up  some  sort  of  story 
as  an  excuse  for  writing  his  impression  of  the  people. 

One  sees  the  slight  vacancy  of  the  stories  of  this  period,  the 
short  clear  sentence,  the  dallying  with  jeu  d'esprit,  with  epigram  no 
better  than,  though  not  inferior  to,  the  run  of  epigram  in  the  nineties. 
It  all  explains  James's  need  of  opacity,  his  reaching  out  for  a  chiarp- 
scuro  to  distinguish  himself  from  his  contemporaries  and  in  which 
he  could  put  the  whole  of  his  much  more  complex  apperception. 


30  T  he    Li  t  tie    Review 

Then  comes,  roughly,  the  period  of  cobwebs  and  of  excessive 
cobwebs  and  of  furniture,  finally  justified  in  The  Finer  Grain,  a  book 
of  tales  with  no  mis-fire  and  the  style  so  vindicated  in  the  triumphs 
of  the  various  books  of  Memoirs  and  The  American  Scene. 

Fantasias:  Dominic  Ferrand,  Nona  Vincent  (tales  obviously 
aimed  at  the  Yellow  Book,  but  seem  to  have  missed  it,  a  detour  in 
James's  career.  All  artists  who  discover  anything  make  such  detours  ^ 
and  must,  in  the  course  of  things,  (as  in  the  cobwebs),  push  certain 
experiments  beyond  the  right  curve  of  their  art.  This  is  not  so  much 
the  doom  as  the  function  of  all  "revolutionary"  or  experimental  art, 
and  I  think  masterwork  is  usually  the  result  of  the  return  from  such 
excess.  One  does  not  know,  simply  does  not  know,  the  true  curve 
until  one  has  pushed  one's  method  beyond  it.  Until  then  it  is  merely 
a  frontier,  not  a  chosen  route.  It  is  an  open  question,  and  there 
is  no  dogmatic  answer,  whether  an  artist  should  write  and  rewrite 
the  same  story  (a  la  Flaubert)  or  whether  he  take  a  new  canvas. 

The  Papers,  a  fantasia,  diverting;  The  Birthplace,  fairygod- 
mother  element  mentioned  above,  excellent.  Edmund  Orme,  in- 
ferior Yellow  Book  tale,  not  accepted  by  that  periodical . 

i88Q-i8gj.  Period  of  th-'s  entoilment  in  the  Yellow  Book, 
short  sentences,  the  epigrammatic.  He  reacts  from  this  into  the 
allegorical.  In  general  the  work  of  this  period  is  not  up  to  the  mark. 
The  Chaperon,  The  Real  Thing,  fantasias  of  "wit".  By  fantasias 
I  mean  sketches  m  which  the  people  are  "real"  or  convince  one  of 
their  verity,  but  where  the  story  is  utterly  unconvincing,  is  not  in- 
tended to  convince,  is  merely  a  sort  of  exaggeration  of  the  fitting 
situation  or  the  situation  which  ought  to  result  in  order  to  display 
some  type  at  its  apogee.  The  Real  Thing  rather  better  than  other 
stories  in  this  volume. 

Thus  the  lady  and  gentleman  model  in  The  Real  Thing.  London 
society  is  finely  ladled  in  The  Chaperon  which  is  almost  as  a  story, 
romanticism. 

Greville  Fane  is  a  scandalous  photograph  from  the  life  about 
which  the  great  blagueur  scandalously  lies  in  his  preface  (collected 
edition).  I  have  been  too  diverted  comparing  it  with  an  original 
to  give  a  sane  view  of  its  art. 

i8go.  The  Tragic  Muse,  uneven,  full  of  good  things  but  show- 
ing Henry  James  in  the  didactic  role  a  little  too  openly.  He 
preaches,  he  also  displays  fine  perception  of  the  parochialism  of 
the  British  political  career.    It  is  a  readable  novel  with  tracts  inter- 


The    Little    Review 


31 


polated.  (Excellent  and  commendable  tracts  arguing  certainly  for 
the  right  thing,  enjoyable,  etc.)  Excellent  text-book  for  young  men 
with  ambitions,  etc. 

i8g2.  Lesson  of  the  Master  (cobweb).  The  Pupil,  a  master- 
piece, one  of  his  best  and  keenest  studies.    Brooksmith  of  the  best. 

i8gj.  The  Private  Life.  Title  story,  waste  verbiage  at  the 
start,  ridiculous  to  put  all  this  camouflage  over  something  au  fond 
merely  an  idea.  Not  life,  not  people,  allegory,  dated  to  Yellow 
Book  era.  Won't  hold  against  Condide.  H.  J.'s  tilting  against  the 
vacuity  of  the  public  figure,  is  naturally,  pleasing,  i.  e.,  it  is 
pleasing  that  he  should  tilt,  but  the  amusement  partakes  of  the 
nature  of  seeing  cocoanuts  hurled  at  an  aunt  sally. 

There  are  other  stories,  good  enough  to  be  carried  by  H.  J's 
best  work,  not  detrimental,  but  not  enough  to  have  "made  him": 
Europe  (Hawthorny),  Paste,  The  Middle  Years,  Broken  Wings,  etc. 
Part  of  the  great  man's  work  can  perhaps  only  be  criticised  as  "etc." 

i8g5.  Terminations  ,  Coxon  Fund  perhaps  best  of  this  lot,  a 
disquisition,  but  entertaining,  perhaps  the  germ  of  Galsworthy  to  be 
found  in  it,  (to  no  glory  of  either  author)  as  perhaps  a  residuum 
of  Dickens  in  Maisie's  Mrs.  Wix.  Verbalism,  but  delightful  ver- 
balism in  Coxon  affair,  sic: 

"Already,  at  hungry  twenty-six,  Gravener  looked  as  blank  and 
parliamentary  as  if  he  were  fifty  and  popular." 

or 

"a  deeply  wronged,  justly  resentful,  quite  irreproachable  and 
insufferable  person" 

or  (for  the  whole  type) 

"put  such  ignorance  into  her  cleverness," 

Miss  Anvoy's  echo  concerning  "a  crystal"  is  excellently  intro- 
duced, but  is  possibly  in  the  nature  of  a  sleight  of  hand  trick,  (con- 
temporary with  Lady  Windermere's  Fan).  Does  H.  J.'s  "politics" 
remind  one  of  Dizzy's  scribbling,  just  a  little?  ''Confidence,  under 
the  new  Ministry,  was  understood  to  be  reviving",  etc. 

Perhaps  one  covers  the  ground  by  saying  that  the  James  of  this 
period  is  "light  literature",  entertaining  if  one  have  nothing  better 
to  do.  Neither  Terminations  nor  (1896)  Embarrassments  would 
have  founded  a  reputation. 

i8g6-g7.  Improvement  through  Other  House  and  Spoils  of 
Poynton.  I  leave  the  appreciation  of  these,  to  me,  detestable  works 
to  Mr.  Hueffer.  They  seem  to  me  full  of  a  good  deal  of  needless  fuss 
though  I  do  not  mean  to  deny  any  art  that  may  be  in  them. 


32  Th0    Little    Review 

iSgy.  The  emergence  in  What  Maisie  Knew.  Problem  of  the 
adolescent  female.    Carried  on  in  : 

i8qq.  The  Awkward  Age,  fairy  godmother  and  spotless  lamb 
and  all  the  rest  of  it.  Only  real  thing  the  impression  of  people,  not 
observation  or  real  knowledge.  Action  only  to  give  reader  the  tone, 
symbolising  the  tone  of  the  people.  Opening  tour  de  force,  a  study 
in  punks,  a  cheese  souffle  of  the  leprous  crust  of  society  done  to 
a  turn  and  a  niceness  save  where  he  puts  on  the  dulcissimo,  vox 
humana,  stop.  James  was  the  dispassionate  observer.  He  started 
with  the  moral  obsession;  before  he  had  worked  clear  of  it  he  was 
entoiled  in  the  obsession  of  social  tone.  He  has  pages  of  clear  de- 
piction, even  of  satire,  but  the  sentimentalist  is  always  lurking  just 
round  the  corner.  This  softens  his  edges.  He  has  not  the  clear 
hardness,  the  cold  satiric  justness  that  G.  S.  Street  has  displayed  in 
treating  situations,  certain  struggles  between  certain  idiocies  and 
certain  vulgarities.  This  book  is  a  specialite  of  local  interest.  It 
is  an  etude  in  ephemera.  If  it  contained  any  revelation  in  1890,  it 
no  longer  contains  it.  His  characters  are  reduced  to  the  status  of 
voyeurs,  elaborate  analysis  of  the  much  too  special  cases,  a  bundle 
of  swine  and  asses  who  cannot  mind  their  own  business,  who  do 
not  know  enough  to  mind  their  own  business.  James's  lamentable 
lack  of  the  classics  is  perhaps  responsible  for  his  absorption  in  baga- 
telles ...  He  has  no  real  series  of  backgrounds  of  moeurs  du  passe, 
only  the  "sweet  dim  faded  lavender"  tune  and  in  opposition  to  mo- 
dernity, plush  nickel-plated,  to  the  disparagement,  naturally,  of  the 
latter. 

Kipling's  "Bigod,  now-I-know-all-about-this  manner,  is  an  an- 
noyance, but  one  wonders  if  parts  of  Kipling  by  the  sheer  force  of 
content,  of  tale  to  tell,  will  not  outlast  most  of  James's  cobwebs. 
There  is  no  substitute  for  narrative-sense  however  many  different 
and  entrancing  charms  may  be  spread  before  us. 

The  Awkivard  Age  might  have  been  done,  from  one  point  of 
view,  as  satire,  in  one-fourth  the  space.  On  the  other  hand,  James 
does  give  us  the  subtly  graded  atmospheres  of  his  different  houses 
most  excellently.     And  indeed  this  may  be  regarded  as  his  subject. 

If  one  were  advocate  instead  of  critic,  one  would  definitely  claim 
that  these  atmospheres,  nuances,  impressions  of  personal  tone  and 
quality  are  his  subject;  that  in  these  he  gets  certain  things  that  al- 
most no  one  else  had  done  before  him.  These  timbres  and  tonalities 
are  his  stronghold,  he  is  ignorant  of  nearly  everything  else.  It  is  all 
very  well  to  say  that  modern  life  is  largely  made  up  of  vellities,  at- 


The    Little    Review  33 

mospheres,  timbres,  nuances,  etc.,  but  if  people  really  spent  as 
much  time  fussing,  to  the  extent  of  the  Jamesian  fuss,  about  such 
normal,  trifling,  age-old  affairs  as  slight  inclinations  to  adultery, 
slight  disinclinations  to  marry,  to  refrain  from  marrying,  etc.,  etc., 
life  would  scarcely  be  worth  the  bother  of  keeping  on  with  it.  It 
is  also  contendable  that  one  must  depict  such  mush  in  order  to 
abolish  it.* 

The  main  feeling  in  The  Awkward  Age  is  satiric.  The  dashes 
of  sentiment  do  not  help  the  work  as  literature.  The  acute  obser- 
ver is  often  referred  to: 

Page  131.  "The  ingenious  observer  just  now  suggested  might 
even  have  detected  ..." 

Page  133  "And  it  might  have  been  apparent  still  to  our  sharp 
spectator  ..." 


*  Most  good  prose  arises,  perhaps,  from  an  instinct  of  negation;  is  the 
detailed,  convincing  analysis  of  something  detestable;  of  something  which  one 
wants  to  eliminate.  Poetry  is  the  assertion  of  a  positive,  i.  e.,  of  desire,  and 
remains,  endures  for  a  longer  period.  Poetic  satire  is  only  an  assertion  of 
this  positive,  inversely,  i.  e.,   as  of  an  opposite  hatred. 

This  is  an  highly  untechnical,  unimpressionist,  in  fact  almost  theological 
manner  of  statement;  but  is  perhaps  the  root  difference  between  the  two  arts 
of  literature. 

Most  good  poetry  asserts  something  to  be  worth  while,  or  damns  a  con- 
trary; at  any  rate  asserts  emotional  values.  The  best  prose  is,  has  been  a 
presentation  (complicated  and  elaborate  as  you  like)  of  circumstances,  of 
conditions,  for  the  most  part  abominable,  or  at  the  mildest,  amendable.  This 
assertion  of  the  more  or  less  objectionable  only  becomes  doctrinaire  and  rotten 
art  when  the  narrator  mis-states  from  dogmatic  bias,  and  when  he  suggests 
some  quack  remedy,  (prohibition,  Christianity,  social  theory  of  one  sort  or 
another),  the  only  cure  being  that  humanity  should  display  more  intelligence 
and  good-will  than  humanity  is  capable   of  displaying. 

Poetry  =^  Emotional  synthesis,  quite  as  real,  quite  as  realist  as  any  prose 
(or  intellectual)    analysis. 

Neither  prose  nor  drama  can  attain  poetic  intensity  save  by  construction, 
almost  by  scenario;  by  so  arranging  the  circumstance  that  some  perfectly 
simple  speech,  perception,  dogmatic  statement  appears  in  abnormal  vigour. 
Thus  when  Frederic  in  L'Education  observes  Mnie.  Arnoux'  shoe-laces  as  she 
is  descending  the  stair;  or  in  Turgenev  the  statement,  quotation  of  a  Russian 
proverb  about  the  "heart  of  another",  or  "Nothing  but  death  is  irrevocable" 
toward  the  end  of  Nichee  de  Geiitils-hojiiincs. 


34  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


Page  310  "But  the  acute  observer  we  are  constantly  taking 
for  granted  would  perhaps  have  detected  ..." 

Page  323  "A  supposititious  spectator  would  certainly  have 
imagined  .  .  ."     (This  also  occurs  in  Ivory  Tower.     Page  196.) 

This  scrutinous  person  wastes  a  great  deal  of  time  in  pretending 
to  conceal  his  contempt  for  Mrs.  Brook,  Vanderbank,  the  other 
punks,  and  lays  it  on  so  thick  when  presenting  his  old  sentimentalist 
Longdon  who  at  the  one  critical  moment  behaves  with  a  stupidity, 
with  a  lack  of  delicacy,  since  we  are  dealing  with  these  refinements. 
Of  course  neither  this  stupidity  of  his  action  nor  the  tone  of  the 
other  characters  has  anything  to  do  with  the  question  of  maestria, 
if  they  were  dispassionately  or  impartially  rendered.  The  book 
is  weak  because  all  through  it  James  is  so  manifestly  carrying  on 
a  long  tenzone  so  fiercely  and  loudly,  a  long  argument  jor  the  old 
lavender.  There  is  also  the  constant  implication  that  Vanderbank 
ought  to  want  Nanda,  though  why  the  devil  he  should  be  supposed 
to  be  even  mildly  under  this  obligation,  is  not  made  clear.  A  basis 
in  the  classics,  castor  oil,  even  Stevenson's  Virginibus  Puerisque 
might  have  helped  matters.  One's  complaint  is  not  that  people  of 
this  sort  don't  exist,  that  they  aren't  like  everything  else  a  sub- 
ject for  literature,  but  that  James  doesn't  anywhere  in  the  book 
get  down  to  bedrock.  It  is  too  much  as  if  he  were  depicting  stage 
scenery  not  as  stage  scenery,  but  as  nature. 

All  this  critique  is  very  possibly  an  exaggeration.  Take  it  at 
half  its  strength;  I  do  not  intend  to  defend  it. 

Epigramatic  manner  in  opening,  compare  Kipling;  compare  De 
Maupassant,  superb  ideas,  verity,  fantasia,  fantasia  group,  reality 
charming  stories  poppycock.  Yellow  Book  touches  in  The  Real 
Thing,  general  statements  about  their  souls,  near  to  bad  writing, 
perfectly  lucid. 

Nona  Vincent,  he  writes  like  an  adolescent,  might  be  a  person 
of  eighteen  doing  first  story. 

Page  201.  "Public  interest  in  spirituall  life  of  the  army".  (The 
Real  Thing.) 

Page  201.    German  Invasion,  1893. 

Loathsome  prigs,  stiff  conventions,  editor  of  cheap  magazines 
ladled  in  Sir  Wots-his-name. 

.  In  the  interim  he  had  brought  out  In  the  Cage,  excellent 
opening  sentence,  matter  too  much  talked  around  and  around,  and 
The  Two  Magics.  This  last  a  Freudian  affair  which  seems  to  me  to 
have  attracted  undue  interest,  i.e.,  interest  out  of  proportion  to  the 


The    Little    Review  35 

importance  as  literature  and  as  part  of  Henry  James's  own  work, 
because  of  this  hubject  matter.  The  obscenity  of  The  Turn  of  the 
Screw  has  given  it  undue  prominence.  People  now  "drawn"  to  ob- 
scene as  were  people  of  Milton's  period  by  an  equally  disgusting 
bigotry;  one  unconscious  on  author's  part;  the  other,  a  surgical 
treatment  of  a  disease.  Thus  much  for  progress  on  part  of  authors 
if  public  has  not  progressed.  The  point  of  my  remarks  is  that  an  ex- 
traneous criterion  comes  in.  One  must  keep  to  the  question  of  liter- 
ature, not  of  irrelevancies.  Galdos  Lo  Prohibido  does  Freud  long 
before  the  sex  crank  got  to  it.  Kipling  really  does  the  psychic, 
ghosts,  etc.,  to  say  nothing  of  this  having  the  "sense  of  story." 

iQoo.  The  Soft  Side  collection  containing:  The  Abasement  of 
the  Northmores,  good;  again  the  motif  of  the  vacuity  of  the  public 
man.  the  "figure";  he  has  tried  it  again  in  The  Private  Life  which, 
however,  falls  into  the  allegorical.  A  rotten  fall  it  is  too,  and 
Henry  James  at  his  worst  in  it,  i.e.,  the  allegorical.  Fordham's 
Castle  appears  in  the  collected  edition  only — it  may  belong  to  this 
period  but  is  probably  earlier,  comedietta,  excellently,  perhaps  flaw- 
lessly done.  Here,  as  so  often,  the  circumstances  are  mostly  a  des- 
cription of  the  character,  of  the  personal  tone  of  the  "sitters";  for 
his  people  are  so  much  more,  or  so  much  more  often,  "sitters"  than 
actors.  Protagonists  it  may  be.  When  they  act,  they  are  apt  to 
stage-act,  which  reduces  their  action  again  to  being  a  mere  attempt 
at  description.  {The  Liar,  for  example)  .  Compare  Maupassant's 
Toine  for  treatment  of  case  similar  to  Fordham  Castle. 

IQ02-0J.  The  Sacred  Fount,  Wings  of  a  Dove,  Golden  Bowl 
period. 

Doz'e  and  Bowl  certainly  not  models  for  other  writers,  a 
caviare  not  part  of  the  canon  (metaphors  be  hanged  for  the  moment). 

Henry  James  is  certainly  not  a  model  for  narrative  novelists, 
for  young  writcis  of  fiction;  perhaps  not  even  a  subject  of  study  till 
they  have  attained  some  sublimity  of  the  critical  sense  or  are  at  least 
ready  to  be  constantly  alert,  constantly  on  guard. 

I  cannot  see  that  he  will  harm  a  critic  or  a  describer  of  places, 
a  recorder  of  impression  whether  they  be  people,  places,  music. 

igoj.    Better  sort  mildish. 

1903.  The  Ambassadors,  rather  clearer  than  the  other  work  . 
Etude  of  Paris  vs.  Woollett. 

1907.    Exhortation  to  the  idle,  well-to-do,  to  leave  home  . 

1907.  The  American  Scene,  triumph  of  the  author's  long  prac- 
tice. A  creation  of  America.  A  book  no  "serious  American"  will 
neglect.    How  many  Americans  make  any  attempt  toward  a  realiza- 


36  T  he    Lit  1 1  e    Review 

tion  of  that  country  is  of  course  beyond  our  power  to  compute.  The 
desire  to  see  the  national  face  in  a  mirror  may  be  in  itself  an  exotic. 
I  know  of  no  such  grave  record,  of  no  such  attempt  at  faithful  por- 
trayal as  The  American  Scene.  Thus  America  is  to  the  careful  ob- 
server; this  volume  and  the  American  scenes  in  the  fiction  and 
memoirs,  in  T/ie  Europeans,  The  Patagonia,  Washington  Square,  etc., 
bulk  large  in  the  very  small  amount  of  writing  which  can  be  counted 
as  history  of  mociirs  contemporaines,  of  national  habit  of  our  time 
and  of  the  two  or  three  generations  preceding  us.  Newport,  the 
standardized  face,  the  Capitol,  Independence  Hall,  the  absence  of 
penetralia,  innocence,  essential  vagueness,  etc.,  language  ''only  defin- 
able as  not  in  intention  Yiddish",  the  tabernacle  of  Grant's  ashes,  the 
public  collapse  of  the  individual,  the  St.  Gaudens  statue.  There  is 
nothing  to  be  gained  by  making  excerpts;  the  volume  is  large,  but  one 
should  in  time  drift  through  it.  I  mean  any  American  with  pretenses 
to  an  intellectual  life  should  drift  through  it.  It  is  not  enough  to  have 
perused  "The  Constitution"  and  to  have  "heerd  tell"  of  the  na- 
tional founders. 

igio.  The  Finer  Grain,  collection  of  short  stories  without  a 
slip.  The  Velvet  Glove,  Mona  Montravers,  A  Round  of  Visits  (the 
old  New  York  versus  the  new)  Crapey  Cornelia,  The  Bench  of  Deso- 
lation. 

It  is  by  beginning  on  this  collection,  or  perhaps  taking  it  after 
such  stories  as  The  Pupil  and  Brooksmith  that  the  general  literate 
reader  will  best  come  to  James,  must  in  brief  be  convinced  of  him 
and  can  tell  whether  or  not  the  "marginal"  James  is  for  him.  Whe- 
ther or  no  the  involutions  of  the  Golden  Bowl  will  titillate  his  arcane 
sensibilities.  If  the  reader  does  not  "get"  The  Finer  Grain  there 
is  no  sense  in  his  trying  the  more  eleborate  Wings  of  a  Dove,  Sacred 
Fount,  Golden  Bowl.  If,  on  the  contrary,  he  does  feel  the  peculiar, 
unclassic  attraction  of  the  author,  he  may  or  may  not  enjoy  the 
uncanonical  books. 

igii.  The  Outcry,  a  relapse.  Connoisseurship  fad  again,  in- 
ferior work. 

1913.  A  Small  Boy  and  Others,  the  beginning  of  the  memoirs. 
Beginning  of  this  volume  disgusting.  First  three  pages  enough  to 
put  one  off  Henry  James  once  and  for  all,  damn  badly  written,  atro- 
cious vocabulary.  Page  ^^t,  a  few  lines  of  good  writing.  Reader  might 
start  about  here.  Any  reader,  that  is,  to  whom  New  York  of  that 
period  is  of  interest ,  New  York  of  the  fifties  is  significant,  in  so 
period  is  of  interest.  New  York  of  the  fifties  is  significant,  in  so  far 
as  it  is  typical  of  what  a  hundred  smaller  American  cities  have  been 


The    Little    Review  37 

since.    The  tone  of  the  work  shows  in  excerpts  : 

"The  special  shade  of  its  identity  was  thus  that  it  was  not  conscious — 
really  not  conscious  of  anything  in  the  world;  or  was  conscious  of  so  few  pos- 
sibilities at  least,  and  these  so  immediate  and  so  a  matter  of  course,  that  it 
came  almost  to  the  same  thing.  That  was  the  testimony  that  the  slight  subjects 
in  question  strike  me  as  having  borne  to  their  surrounding  medium — the  fact 
that  their  unconsciousness  could  be  so  preserved  .  .  ." 

Or  later,  when  dealing  with  a  pre-Y.-M.-C.-A.   America. 

"Infinitely  queer  and  quaint,  almost  incongruously  droll,  the  sense  some- 
how begotten  in  ourselves,  as  very  young  persons,  of  our  being  surrounded 
by  a  slightly  remote,  yet  dimly  rich,  outer  and  quite  kindred  circle  of  the 
tipsy.  I  remember  how,  once,  as  a  very  small  boy,  after  meeting  in  the  hall 
a  most  amiable  and  irreproachable  gentleman,  all  but  closely  consanguineous, 
who  had  come  to  call  on  my  mother,  I  anticipated  his  further  entrance  by 
slipping  in  to  report  to  that  parent  that  I  thought  he  must  be  tipsy.  And 
I  v.-as  to  recall  prefectly  afterwards  the  impression  I  so  made  on  her — in  which 
tlie  general  propo.sition  that  the  gentlemen  of  a  certain  group  or  con- 
nection might  on  occasion  be  best  described  by  the  term  I  had 
used  sought  to  destroy  the  particular  presumption  that  our  visitor  wouldn't, 
by  his  ordinary  measure,  show  himself  for  one  of  these.  He  didn't  to  all  ap- 
pearance, for  I  was  afterwards  disappointed  at  the  lapse  of  lurid  evidence: 
that  memory  remained  with  me,  as  well  as  a  considerable  subsequent  wonder 
at  my  having  leaped  to  so  baseless  a  view  .  .  ." 

"The  grim  little  generalisation  remained,  none  the  less,  and  I  may  speak 
of  it — since  I  speak  of  everything — as  still  standing:  the  striking  evidence 
that  scarce  aught  but  disaster  could,  in  that  so  unformed  and  unseasoned 
society,  overtake  young  men  who  were  in  the  least  exposed.  Not  to  have 
been  immediately  launched  in  business  of  a  rigorous  sort  was  to  be  exposed — 
in  the  absence  I  mean  of  some  fairly  abnormal  predisposition  to  virtue;  since 
it  was  a  world  so  simply  constituted  that  whatever  wasn't  business,  or  exactly 
an  office  or  a  "store",  places  in  which  people  sat  close  and  made  money,  was 
just  simply  pleasure,  sought,  and  sought  only,  in  places  in  which  people  got 
tipsy.  There  was  clearly  no  mean,  least  of  all  the  golden  one,  for  it  was  just 
the  ready,  even  when  the  moderate,  possesion  of  gold  that  determined,  that 
hurried  on  disaster.  There  were  whole  sets  and  groups,  there  were  "sym- 
pathetic" though  too  susceptible,  races,  that  seemed  scarce  to  recognise  or  to 
find  possible  any  practical  application  of  moneyed,  that  is,  of  transmitted  ease, 
however  limited,  but  to  go  more  or  less  rapidly  to  the  bad  with  it — which 
meant  even  then  going  as  often  as  possible  to  Paris  .  .  ." 

"The  field  was  strictly  covered,  to  my  young  eyes,  I  make  out,  by  three 
classes,  the  busy,  the  tipsy,  and  Daniel  Webster  .  .  ." 


Js  The    Little    Review 


"It  has  carried  me  far  from  my  rather  evident  proposition  that  if  we  saw 
the  "natural"  so  happily  embodied  about  us — and  in  female  maturity,  or 
comparative  maturity,  scarce  less  than  in  female  adolescence — this  was  be- 
cause the  artifical,  or  in  other  words  the  complicated,  was  so  little  there  to 
threaten  it   .  .   ." 

On  page  72  he  quotes  his  father  on  "flagrant  morality".  In 
Chapter  X  we  have  a  remarkable  portrayal  of  a  character  by  almost 
nothing  save  vacuums,  "timorous  philistine  in  a  world  of  dangers". 
Our  author  notes  the  "finer  civility"  but  does  not  see  that  it  is  a 
thing  of  no  period.  It  as  the  property  of  a  few  individuals,  per- 
sonally transmitted.  Henry  James  had  a  mania  for  setting  these 
things  in  an  era  or  a  "faubourg",  despite  the  continued  testimony 
that  the  worst  manners  have  constantly  impinged  upon  the  most 
brilliant  societies;  that  decent  detail  of  conduct  is  a  personal  talent. 

The  production  of  //  Corteggiano  proves  perhaps  nothing  more 
than  the  degree  in  which  Castiglione's  contemporaries  "needed  to  be 
told".  On  page  236  {Small  Boy  and  Others)  the  phrase  "presence 
without  type".  On  page  286,  the  people  "who  cultivated  for  years 
the  highest  instructional,  social  and  moral  possibilities  of  Geneva". 
Page  283  "discussion  of  a  work  of  art  mainly  hung  in  those  days  on 
that  issue  of  the  producible  name".  Page  304.  "For  even  in  those 
days  some  Americans  were  rich  and  several  sophisticated".  Page  313. 
The  real  give  away  of  W.  J.  Page  341.  Scarification  of  Ste-Beuve. 
Page  179.     Crystal  Palace.    Page  214.     Social  relativity. 

One  is  impatient  for  Henry  James  to  do  people. 

A  Little  Tour  in  France.  The  disadvantage  of  giving  impressions 
of  real  instead  of  imaginary  places  is  that  they  conflict  with  other 
peoples'  impressions.  I  do  not  see  Angouleme  via  Balzac,  nor  do 
I  feel  Henry  James's  contacts  with  the  places  where  our  tracks  have 
crossed  very  remarkable.  I  dare  say  it  is  a  good  enough  guide  for 
people  more  meagrely  furnished  with  associations  or  perceptions. 
Allow  me  my  pieton's  shrug  for  the  man  who  has  gone  only  by  train. 

Henry  James  is  not  very  deep  in  ancient  associations.  The 
American's  enjoyment  of  England  in  The  Passionate  Pilgrim  is  more 
searching  than  anything  continental.  Windy  generality  in  Tour  in 
France,  and  perhaps  indication  of  how  little  Henry  James's  tentacles 
penetrated  into  any  era  before  1600,  or  perhaps  before  1780. 

Vignette  bottom  of  page  337-8  (Passionate  Pilgrim)  "full  of 
glimpses  and  responses,  of  deserts  and  desolations".  "His  percep- 
tions would  be  fine  and  his  opinions  pathetic".     Commiseration  of 


T  ke    Lit  tie    Review  39 

Searle,  vs.  detachment  in  Four  Meetings. 

Of  the  posthumous  work,  The  Middle  Years  is  perhaps  the 
mf^st  charming.  The  Ivory  Tower,  full  of  accumulated  perceptions, 
'•wift  illuminating  phrases,  perhaps  part  of  a  masterpiece.  The  Sense 
of  the  Past,  less  important.  I  leave  my  comment  of  The  Middle 
Years  as  I  wrote  it,  but  have  recast  the  analysis  of  notes  to  The 
Ivory  Tower. 

Flaubert  is  in  six  volumes,  four  or  five  of  which  every  literate 
man  must  at  one  time  or  another  assault.  James  is  strewn  over 
about  forty — part  of  which  must  go  into  desuetude,  have  perhaps 
done  so  already. 

I  have  not  in  these  notes  attempted  the  Paterine  art  of  appre- 
ciation, e.g.,  as  in  taking  the  perhaps  sole  readable  paragraph  of 
Pico  Mirandola  and  writing  an  empurpled  descant. 

The  problem — ^discussion  of  which  is  about  as  "artistic"  as 
a  street  map — is:  can  we  conceive  a  five  or  six  volume  edition  of 
James  so  selected  as  to  hold  its  own  internationally?  My  contention 
is  for  this  possibility. 

My  notes  are  no  more  than  a  tentative  suggestion,  to  wit:  that 
some  such  compact  edition  might  be,  to  advantage,  tried  on  the  less 
patient  public.  I  have  been,  alas,  no  more  fortunate  than  our  sub- 
ject in  keeping  out  irrelevant,  non-aesthetic,  non-literary,  non-tech- 
nical vistas  and  strictures. 

'THE  MIDDLE  YEARS" 

Ezra     Pound 

THE  MIDDLE  YEARS  is  a  tale  of  the  great  adventure;  for, 
putting  aside  a  few  simple  adventures,  sentimental,  phallic, 
Nimrodic,  the  remaining  great  adventure  is  precisely  the  approach 
to  the  Metropolis;  for  the  provincial  of  our  race  the  specific  ap- 
proach to  London,  and  no  subject  surely  could  more  heighten  the 
pitch  of  writing  than  that  the  treated  approach  should  be  that  of  the 
greatest  writer  of  our  time  and  own  particular  language.  We  may, 
I  think,  set  aside  Thomas  Hardy  as  of  an  age  not  our  own;  of  per- 
haps Walter  Scott's  or  of  L'Abbe  Prevost's,  but  remote  from  us  and 
things  familiarly  under  our  hand;  and  we  skip  over  the  next  few 
crops  of  writers  as  lacking  in  any  comparative  interest,  interest  in  a 
writer  being  primarily  in  his  degree  of  sensitization;   and  on  this 


40  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

count  we  may  throw  out  the  whole  Wells-Bennet  period,  for  what 
interest  can  we  take  in  instruments  which  must  of  nature  miss  two- 
thirds  of  the  vibrations  in  any  conceivable  situation.  In  James  the 
maximum  sensibility  compatible  with  efficient  writing  was  present. 
Indeed,  in  reading  these  pages  one  can  but  despair  over  the  inade- 
quacy of  one's  own  literary  sensitization,  one's  so  utterly  inferior 
state  of  awareness;  even  allowing  for  what  the  author  himself  al- 
lows: lys  not  really,  perhaps,  having  felt  at  twentysix,  all  that  at 
seventy  he  more  or  less  read  into  the  memory  of  his  feeling.  The 
point  is  that  with  the  exception  of  exceptional  moments  in  Hueffer 
we  find  no  trace  of  such  degree  of  awareness  in  the  next  lot  of 
v/r'ters,  or  until  the  first  novels  of  Lewis  and  Joyce,  whose  awareness 
is,  without  saying,  of  a  nature  greatly  different  in  kind. 

It  is  not  the  book  for  any  reader  to  tackle  who  has  not  read  a 
good  deal  of  James,  or  who  has  not  in  default  of  that  reading,  been 
endowed  with  a  natural  Jamesian  sensibility  (a  case  almost  negligi- 
ble by  any  likelihood) ;  neither  is  it  a  book  of  memo'rs,  I  mean  one 
does  not  turn  to  it  seeking  information  about  Victorian  worthies;  one 
does  not,  any  more  than  one  did  when  the  old  man  himself  was 
talking,  w'ant  to  be  told  anything;  there  are  encyclopaedia  in  suf- 
ficiency, and  statistics,  and  human  mines  of  information,  boring 
sufficiency;  one  asked  and  asks  only  that  slow  voice  should  continue 
— evaluating,  or  perhaps  only  tying  up  the  strands  of  a  sentence; 
"And  how  my  old  friend  .  .  .  Howells  ..."    etc. 

The  effects  of  H.  J.'s  first  breakfasts  in  Liverpool  and  • , 

invited  upstairs  at  Half  Moon  Street,  are  of  infinitely  more  value 
than  any  anecdotes  of  the  Laureate  (even  though  H.  J.'s  inability  not 
to  see  all  through  the  Laureate  is  compensated  by  a  quip  melting  one's 
personal  objection  to  anything  Tennyson  touched,  by  making  him 
merely  an  old  gentleman  whatsoever  with  a  gleam  of  fun  In  his 
make-up). 

All  comers  to  the  contrary,  and  the  proportionate  sale  of  his 
works,  and  statistics  whatsoever  to  the  contrary,  only  an  American 
who  has  come  abroad  will  ever  draw  all  the  succulence  from  Henry 
James's  writings;  the  denizen  of  Manchester  or  Wellington  may 
know  what  it  feels  like  to  reach  London,  the  Londoner  born  will  not 
be  able  quite  to  reconstruct  even  this  part  of  the  book;  and  if  for 
intimacy  H.  J.  might  have  stayed  at  the  same  hotel  on  the  same  day 
as  one's  grandfather,  and  if  the  same  American  names  had  part  in 
one's  own  inceptions  in  London,  one's  own  so  wholly  different  and 
less  padded  inceptions;  one  has  perhaps  a  purely  personal,  selfish, 


The    Little    Review  41 

unliterary  sense  of  intimacy:  with,  in  my  own  case,  the  vast  un- 
bridgeable difference  of  settling-in  and  escape. 

The  essence  of  James  is  that  "he  is  always  "settling-in,"  it  is 
the  ground-tone  of  his  genius. 

Apart  from  the  state  of  James's  sensibility  on  arrival  nothing 
else  matters,  the  "mildness  of  the  critical  air,"  the  fatuity  of  George 
Eliot's  husband,  the  illustrational  and  accomplished  lady,  even  the 
facutly  for  a  portrait  in  a  paragraph,  not  to  be  matched  by  contem- 
porary effects  in  half-metric,  are  indeed  all  subordinate  to  one's  cur- 
iosity as  to  what  Henry  James  knew,  and  what  he  did  not  know  on 
landing.  The  portrait  of  the  author  on  the  cover  showing  him 
bearded,  and  looking  rather  like  a  cross  between  a  bishop  and  a 
Cape  Cod  longeshoreman,  is  an  incident  gratuitous,  interesting,  but 
in  no  way  connected  with  the  young  man  of  the  text. 

The  England  of  a  still  rather  whiskered  age.  never  looking  in- 
ward, in  short  the  Victorian  is  exquisitely  embalmed,  and  "mounted" 
as  is,  I  think,  the  term  for  microscopy.  The  book  is  just  the  right 
length  as  a  volume,  but  one  mourns  there  not  being  twenty  more,  for 
here  is  the  unfinished  work  .  .  .  not  in  The  Sense  of  the  Past,  for 
there  the  pen  was  weary,  as  it  had  been  in  The  Outcry,  and  the 
talent  that  was  never  most  worth  its  own  while  when  gone  off  on 
connoisseurship.  was,  conceivably,  fin'shed;  but  here  in  his  depiction 
of  his  earlier  self  the  verve  returned,  undiminished. 

HENRY   JAMES,   AND   THE    GHOSTLY 
A.  R.  Orage 

IHxWE  seen  it  written  that  Henry  James  was  a  greater  psycho 
logist  than  his  brother  \\'illiam,  and  I  have  seen  it  denied  with 
indignation.  The  dispute  might  have  been  saved  by  the  true 
statement  that,  as  psychologists,  the  two  brothers  were  equally  ac- 
complished but  in  different  fields.  The  field  of  William  James  was 
in  the  main  the  field  of  normal  and  of  abnormal  conscious  psycho- 
logy; the  field  of  Henry  James  was  the  field  of  the  sub-conscious, 
both  normal  and  abnormal.  The  difference  to  those  who  know  what 
the  terms  mean,  is  not  only  considerable;  but  it  accounts  entirely 
for  the  difference  of  method  employed  by  the  two  brothers  and  even, 
to  a  great  extent,  for  the  difference  in  their  modes  of  life.  The 
conscious  can  be  studied  by  the  scientist  in  the  laboratory;    the 


42  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

material  is,  moreover,  largely  under  his  control;  and  all  the  ordinary 
rules  of  scientific  research  apply  to  it.  But  the  sub-conscious  is  a 
shyer  creature  altogether.  It  is  not  susceptible  of  direct  observa- 
tion; it  cannot  be  conjured  up  or  laid  at  will;  it  must  be  watched, 
attended  upon,  and  delicately,  oh  most  delicately,  observed;  it 
entails  a  discipline  of  the  imagination  and  of  the  senses,  and  a  dis- 
cipline of  the  mind  of  the  observer  who  must  beware  of  even  so  much 
as  breathing  in  the  presence  of  the  subconscious  subject;  in  a  word, 
its  study  is  much  more  an  art  than  a  science. 

I  am  not  suggesting  that  Henry  James  arrived  by  his  method 
at  any  conclusions  likely  to  be  of  value  to  the  science  of  psychology. 

Conclusions  were  not  what  he  aimed  at;  he  aimed,  like  every 
author,  at  representation.  Nor,  again,  am  I  suggesting  that  Henry 
James  held  intellectually  any  theories  on  the  sub-conscious  .  He 
was,  as  it  were,  professionally  inclusive  and  professional  open- 
minded.  At  the  same  time,  it  would  be  possible,  I  hold,  to  discover 
in  the  solution  of  his  works  quite  definite  conclusions  and  quite 
definite  theories  which  the  intellect  might  precipitate  into  the  crys- 
tallised dust  of  formal  definitions.  But  why  attempt  it  if  Henry 
James  himself  did  not?  Why  translate  into  terms  of  science  a 
work  of  art?  Why  substitute  for  representation  mere  definitions? 
Only,  if  it  be  done,  to  convince  his  readers  that  they  are  really  in 
the  current  of  the  most  recent  and  the  deepest  thought  of  our  day. 

For  the  surprising  thing  about  Henry  James's  novels  is  that 
one  approaches  them  as  stories  and  leaves  them  having  assisted  at 
a  piece  of  life.  One  begins  to  read  him  as  a  diversion  and  finds 
at  the  end  of  him  that  one  has  had  real  experiences.  He  is,  in 
fact,  the  magician  of  psychology,  who  not  only  describes — who,  in- 
deed does  not  describe,  but  portrays, — but  reveals.  He  takes  his 
readers  through  a  new  world.  This  marvellous  magical  gift,  more- 
over, is  exercised,  like  all  true  magic,  by  the  simplest  of  means. 
For  the  most  part  Henry  James's  characters  cannot  be  said  to  be 
selected  for  their  extraordinariess;  nor  had  he  the  accessories  of  the 
stage-magician  for  his  properties.  Quite  ordinary  people  in  quite  or- 
dinary surroundings  are  sufficient  for  his  purpose  —  which  is  to 
show  us,  not  the  conscious,  but  the  sub-conscious,  in  man.  "There," 
he  seems  to  say, — having  placed  his  reader  at  a  point  of  vantage  for 
observation, — ^"just  observe  and  listen  and  hold  your  mind  in  readi- 
ness to  catch  the  smallest  gesture  and  the  lightest  tone.  These 
persons  you  will  notice,  are  not  at  the  first  glance  anything  out  of 
the  common,  nor  are  they  up  to  anything  very  unusual.    Neverthe- 


T  he    Lit  tie   Review  43 

less,  watch  them  and  try  to  see  and  to  feel  what  they  are  doing!" 
And  as  his  readers  look  at  the  figures  through  Henry  James's  eyes, 
they  are  aware  of  a  strange  transformation  in  the  ordinary  people 
before  them.  While  still  remaining  ordinary,  extraordinary  mani- 
festations begin  to  be  visible  among  them.  They  arouse  wonder, 
they  arouse  pity,  they  arouse  admiration,  they  arouse  horror  or 
fear.  There  are  few  emotions  they  are  not  capable  of  producing 
under  the  wand  of  Henry  James.  Yet,  all  the  time — I  must  insist 
upon  it — these  people  remain  ordinary. 

Such  an  art  of  second-sight  as  this  was  not  likely  to  be  confined 
to  the  merely  incarnated .  If  Henry  James  drew  our  attention  to 
the  sub-conscious  "double"  or  psychic  penumbra  of  living  figures, 
he  was  almost  certain  in  the  end  to  present  his  figures  as  doubles 
without  a  body,  in  a  word,  as  ghosts.  And  I  was  among  the  critics 
who,  long  before  Henry  James  had  written  his  Two  Magics  prophe- 
s'ed  that  he  would  shortly  be  writing  of  shadows  directly.  No  stu- 
dent of  his  works  can  fail  to  observe  how  imperceptibly  his  method 
of  dealing  with  real  persons  shades  into  his  dealing  with  ghosts. 
There  is  a  little  more  quietness,  a  little  more  mystery,  a  little  more 
holding  of  the  breath  in  the  process  of  observation;  but  fundam- 
entally the  method  is  the  same.  His  stories  of  the  unembodied  are, 
I  think,  the  flower  of  his  art.  In  these  Henry  James  rose  to  the 
perfection  of  his  observation.  In  them  he  examined  the  sub-con- 
scious, as  it  were,  face  to  face. 

I  have  remarked  on  another  occasion  that  Henry  James  would 
be  happy  among  the  dead,  for  he  understood  them  while  he  was 
still  living.  But  let  me  supplement  the  remark  here  by  the  obser- 
vation that  Henry  James  did  not  commune  with  the  disembodied 
alone,  but  aloud  and  in  the  hearing  and  in  the  experience  of  all  his 
intended  readers.  His  mission  (if  I  may  use  the  word  and  grieve 
for  it)  was  to  act  as  a  kind  of  Charon  to  ferry  the  understanding 
over  the  dark  passage  of  the  Styx  and  to  show  us  that  we  are  such 
stuff  as  ghosts  are  made  of. 


44 


The    Little    Review 


IN    MEMORY 
T.   S.   Eliot 

HENRY  JAMES  has  been  dead  for  some  time.  The  current  of 
English  literature  was  not  appreciably  altered  by  his  work 
during  his  lifetime;  and  James  will  probably  continue  to  be  re- 
garded as  the  extraordinarily  clever  but  negligible  curiosity.  The 
current  hardly  matters;  it  hardly  matters  that  very  few  people  will 
read  James.  The  "influence"  of  James  hardly  matters:  to  be  in- 
fluenced by  a  writed  is  to  have  a  chance  inspiration  from  him;  or  to 
take  what  one  wants;  or  to  see  things  one  has  overlooked;  there 
will  always  be  a  few  intelligent  people  to  understand  James,  and 
to  be  understood  by  a  few  intelligent  people  is  all  the  influence  a 
man  requires.  What  matters  least  of  all  is  his  place  in  such  a  Lord 
Mayor's  show  as  Mr.  Chesterton's  procession  of  Victorian  Literature. 
The  point  to  be  made  is  that  James  has  an  importance  which  has 
nothing  to  do  with  what  came  before  him  or  what  may  happen  after 
him;  an  importance  which  has  been  overlooked  on  both  sides  of  the 
Atlantic. 

I  do  not  suppose  that  any  one  who  is  not  an  American  can 
properly  appreciate  James.  James's  best  American  figures  in  the 
novels,  in  spite  of  their  trim  definite  outlines,  the  economy  of  strokes, 
have  a  fullness  of  existence  and  an  external  ramification  of  relation- 
ship which  a  European  reader  might  not  easily  suspect.  The  Belle- 
garde  family,  for  instance,  are  merely  good  outline  sketches  by  an 
intelligent  foreigner;  when  more  is  expected  of  them,  in  the  latter 
part  of  the  story,  they  jerk  themselves  into  only  melodramatic  vio- 
lence. In  all  appearance  Tom  Tristram  is  an  even  slighter  sketch. 
Europeans  can  recognize  him;  they  have  seen  him,  known  him, 
have  even  penetrated  the  Occidental  Club;  but  no  European  has  the 
Tom  Tristram  element  in  his  composition,  has  anything  of  Tristram 
from  his  first  visit  to  the  Louvre  to  his  final  repiark  that  Paris  is 
the  only  place  where  a  white  man  can  live.  It  is  the  final  perfection, 
the  consummation  of  an  American  to  become,  not  an  Englishman, 
but  a  European — something  which  no  born  European,  no  person  of 
any  European  nationality,  can  become.  Tom  is  one  of  the  failures, 
one  of  nature's  misfortunes,  in  this  process.  Even  General  Packard, 
C.  P.  Hatch,  and  Miss  Kitty  Upjohn  have  a  reality  which  Claire  de 


The    Little    Review  45 

Cintre  misses.  Noemie,  of  course,  is  perfect,  but  Noemie  is  a  result 
of  the  intelligent  eye;  her  existence  is  a  triumph  of  the  intelligence, 
and  it  does  not  extend  beyond  the  frame  of  the  picture. 

For  the  English  reader,  much  of  James's  criticism  of  America 
must  merely  be  something  taken  for  granted.  English  readers  can 
appreciate  it  for  what  it  has  in  common  with  criticism  everywhere, 
with  Flaubert  in  France  and  Turgenev  in  Russia.  Still,  it  should 
have  for  the  English  an  importance  beyond  the  work  of  these 
writers.  There  is  no  English  equivalent  for  James,  and  at  least  he 
writes  in  this  language.  As  a  critic,  no  novelist  in  our  language 
can  approach  James;  there  is  not  even  any  large  part  of  the  reading 
public  which  knows  what  the  word  "critic"  means.  (The  usual  de- 
finition of  a  critic  is  a  writer  who  cannot  "create" — perhaps  a  re- 
viewer of  books).  James  was  emphatically  not  a  successful  literary 
cniic.  His  criticism  of  books  and  writers  is  feeble.  In  writing  of  a 
novelist,  he  occasionally  produces  a  valuable  sentence  out  of  his  own 
experience  rather  than  in  judgment  of  the  subject.  The  rest  is 
charming  talk,  or  gentle  commendation.  Even  in  handling  men 
whom  he  could,  one  supposes,  have  carved  joint  from  joint — Emer- 
son, or  Norton — his  touch  is  uncertain;  there  is  a  desire  to  be  gen- 
erous, a  political  motive,  an  admission  (in  dealing  with  American 
writers)  that  under  the  circumstances  this  was  the  best  possible,  or 
that  it  has  fine  qualities.  His  father  was  here  keener  than  he. 
Henry  was  not  a  literary  critic. 

He  was  a  critic  who  preyed  not  upon  ideas,  but  upon  living 
beings.  It  is  criticism  which  is  in  a  very  high  sense  creative.  The 
characters,  the  best  of  them,  are  each  a  distinct  success  of  creation: 
Daisy  Miller's  small  brother  is  one  of  these.  Done  in  a  clean  flat 
drawing,  each  is  extracted  out  of  a  reality  of  its  own,  substantial 
enough;  everything  given  is  true  for  that  individual;  but  what  is 
given  is  chosen  with  great  art  for  its  place  in  a  general  scheme.  The 
general  scheme  is  not  one  character,  nor  a  group  of  characters  in  a 
plot  or  merely  in  a  crowd.  The  focus  is  a  situation,  a  relation,  an 
atmosphere,  to  which  the  characters  pay  tribute,  but  being  allowed 
to  give  only  what  the  writer  wants.  The  real  hero,  in  any  of  James's 
stories,  is  a  social  entity  of  which  men  and  women  are  constituents. 
It  is,  in  The  Europeans,  that  particular  conjunction  of  people  at  the 
Wentworth  house,  a  situation  in  which  several  memorable  scenes  are 
merely  timeless  parts,  only  occurring  necessarily  in  succession.  In 
this  aspect,  you  can  say  that  James  is  dramatic;  as  what  Pinero  and 
Mr.  Jones  used  to  do  for  a  large  public,  James  does  for  the  intelli- 


46  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

gent.  It  is  in  the  chemistry  of  these  subtle  substances,  these  curious 
precipitates  and  explosive  gases  which  are  suddenly  formed  by  the 
contact  of  mind  with  mind,  that  James  is  unequalled.  Compared 
with  James's,  other  novelists'  characters  seem  to  be  only  accidentally 
in  the  same  book.  Naturally,  there  is  something  terrible,  as  discon- 
certing as  a  quicksand,  in  this  discovery,  though  it  only  becomes 
absoluately  dominant  in  such  stories  as  The  Turn  of  the  Screw.  It 
is  partly  foretold  in  Hawthorne,  but  James  carried  it  much  farther. 
And  it  makes  the  reader,  as  well  as  the  personae,  uneasily  the  victim 
of  a  merciless  clairvoyance. 

James's  critical  genius  comes  out  most  tellingly  in  his  mastery 
over,  his  baffling  escape  from,  Ideas;  a  mastery  and  an  escape  which 
are  perhaps  the  last  test  of  a  superior  intelligence.  He  had  a  mind 
so  fine  that  no  idea  could  violate  it.  Englishmen,  with  their  uncri- 
tical admiration  (in  the  present  age)  for  France,  like  to  refer  to 
France  as  the  Home  of  Ideas;  a  phrase  which,  if  we  could  twist  it 
into  truth,  or  at  least  a  compliment,  ought  to  mean  that  in  France 
ideas  are  very  severly  looked  after;  not  allowed  to  stray,  but  pre- 
served for  the  inpsection  of  civic  pride  in  a  Jardin  des  Plantes,  and 
frugally  dispatched  on  occasions  of  public  necessity.  England,  on 
the  other  hand,  if  it  is  not  the  Home  of  Ideas,  has  at  least  become 
infested  with  them  in  about  the  space  of  time  within  which  Australia 
has  been  overrun  by  rabbits.  In  England  ideas  run  wild  and  pasture 
on  the  emotions;  instead  of  thinking  with  our  feelings  (a  very  dif- 
ferent thing)  we  corrupt  our  feelings  with  ideas;  we  produce  the 
political,  the  emotional  idea,  evading  sensation  and  thoug'ht.  George 
Meredith  (the  disciple  of  Carlyle)  was  fertile  in  ideas;  his  epigrams 
are  a  facile  substitute  for  observation  and  inference.  Mr.  Chester- 
ton's brain  swarms  with  ideas;  I  see  no  evidence  that  it  thinks. 
James  in  his  novels  is  like  the  best  French  critics  in  maintaining  a 
point  of  view,  a  view-point  untouched  by  the  parasite  idea.  He  is 
the  most  intelligent  man  of  his  generation. 

The  fact  of  being  everywhere  a  foreigner  was  probably  an  assist- 
ance to  his  native  wit.  Since  Byron  and  Landor,  no  Englishman 
appears  to  have  profited  much  from  living  abroad.  We  have  had 
Birmingham  seen  from  Chelsea,  but  not  Chelsea  seen  (really  seen) 
from  Baden  or  Rome.  There  are  advantages,  indeed,  in  coming 
from  a  large  flat  country  which  no  one  wants  to  visit:  advantages 
which  both  Turgeney  and  James  enjoyed.  These  advantages  have 
not  won  them  recognition.  Europeans  have  preferred  to  take  their 
notion  of  the  Russian   from   Dostoevski   and  their  notion  of  the 


The    Little    Review  47 


American  from,  let  us  say,  Frank  Norris  if  not  O.  Henry.  Thus, 
they  fail  to  note  that  there  are  many  kinds  of  their  fellowcountry- 
men,  and  that  most  of  these  kinds,  similarly  to  the  kinds  of  their 
fellow-countrymen,  are  stupid;  likewise  with  Americans.  Americans 
also  have  encouraged  this  fiction  of  a  general  type,  a  formula  or 
idea,  usually  the  predaceous  square-jawed  or  thinlipped.  They 
like  to  be  told  that  they  are  a  race  of  cornmercial  buccaneers.  It 
gives  them  something  easily  escaped  from,  moreover,  when  they 
wish  to  reject  America.  Thus  the  novels  of  Frank  Norris  have  suc- 
ceeded in  both  countries;  though  it  is  curious  that  the  most  valuable 
part  of  The  Pit  is  its  satire  (quite  unconscious  I  believe;  Norris  was 
simply  representing  faithfully  the  life  he  knew)  of  Chicago  society 
after  business  hours.  All  this  show  of  commercialism  which  Ameri- 
cans like  to  present  to  the  foreign  eye  James  quietly  waves  aside; 
and  in  pouncing  upon  his  fellow-countryman  after  the  stock  ex- 
change has  closed,  in  tracking  down  his  vices  and  absurdities  across 
the  Atlantic,  and  exposing  them  in  their  highest  flights  of  dignity  or 
culture,  James  may  be  guilty  of  what  will  seem  to  most  Americans 
scandalously  improper  behaviour.  It  is  too  much  to  expect  them  to 
be  grateful.  And  the  British  public,  had  it  been  more  aware,  would 
hardly  have  been  more  comfortable  confronted  with  a  smile  which 
was  so  far  from  breaking  into  the  British  laugh.  Henry  James's 
death,  if  it  had  been  more  taken  note  of,  should  have  given  consid- 
erable relief  "on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic,"  and  cemented  the  An- 
glo-American Entente. 

THE  HAWTHORNE  ASPECT 
T.  S.  Eliot 

MY  OBJECT  is  not  to  discuss  critically  even  one  phase  or 
period  of  James,  but  merely  to  provide  a  note,  Beitrage, 
toward  any  attempt  to  determine  his  antecedents,  affiinities,  and 
"place".  Presumed  that  James's  relation  to  Balzac,  to  Turgenev,  to 
any  one  else  on  the  continent  is  known  and  measured — I  refer  to  Mr. 
Hueffer's  book  and  to  Mr.  Pound's  article — and  presumed  that  his 
relation  to  the  Victorian  novel  is  negligible,  it  is  not  concluded  that 
James  was  simply  a  clever  young  man  who  came  to  Europe  and  im- 
proved himself,  but  that  the  soil  of  his  origin  contributed  a  flavour 
discriminible  after  transplantation  in  his  latest  fruit.    We  may  even 


48  The    Little    Review 

draw  the  instructive  conclusion  that  this  flavour  was  precisely  im- 
proved and  given  its  chance,  not  worked  off.  by  transplantation.    If 
there  is  this  strong  native  taste,  there  will  probably  be  some  relation 
to  Hawthrone;   and  if  there  is  any  relation  to  Hawthrone,  it  will, 
probably  help  us  to  analyse  the  flavour  of  v.^hich  I  speak. 

When  we  say  that  James  is  "American",  we  must  mean  that  this 
"flavour"  of  his,  and  also  more  exactly  definable  qualities,  are  more  or 
less  diffused  throughout  the  vast  continent  rather  than  anywhere 
else;  but  we  cannot  mean  that  this  flavour  and  these  qualities  have 
found  literary  expression  throughout  the  nation,  or  that  they  per- 
meate the  work  of  Mr.  Frank  Norris  or  Mr.  Booth  Tarkington.  The 
point  is  that  James  is  positively  a  continuator  of  the  New  England 
genius;  that  there  is  a  New  England  genius,  which  has  discovered  it- 
self only  in  a  very  small  number  of  people  in  the  middle  of 
the  nineteenth  century — and  which  is  not  significantly  present  in  the 
writings  of  Miss  Sara  Orne  Jewett,  Miss  Eliza  White,  or  the  Bard  of 
Appledore  whose  name  I  forget.  I  mean  whatever  we  associate 
with  certain  purlieus  of  Boston,  with  Concord,  Salem,  and  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  :  notably  Emerson,  Thoreau,  Hawthorne  and  Lowell. 
None  of  these  men,  with  the  exception  of  Hawthorne,  is  individually 
very  important;  they  all  can,  and  perhaps  ought  to  be  made  to  look 
very  foolish;  but  there  is  a  "something"  there,  a  dignity,  about  Em- 
erson for  example,  which  persists  after  we  have  perceived  the  taint 
of  commonness  about  some  English  contemporary,  as  for  instance 
the  more  intelligent,  better  educated,  more  alert  Matthew  Arnold. 
Omitting  such  men  as  Bryant  and  Whittier  as  absolutely  plebeian, 
we  can  still  perceive  this  halo  of  dignity  around  the  men  I  have 
named,  and  also  Longfellow,  Margaret  Fuller  and  her  crew,  Bancroft 
and  Motley,  the  faces  of  (later)  Norton  and  Child  pleasantly  shaded 
by  the  Harvard  elms.  One  distinguishing  mark  of  this  distinguished 
world  was  very  certainly  leisure;  and  importantly  not  in  all  cases  a 
leisure  given  by  money,  but  insisted  upon.  There  seems  no  easy 
reason  why  Emerson  or  Thoreau  or  Hawthorne  should  have  been 
men  of  leisure;  it  seems  odd  that  the  New  England  conscience  should 
have  allowed  them  leisure;  yet  they  would  have  it,  sooner  or  later. 
That  is  really  one  of  the  finest  things  about  them,  and  sets  a  bold 
frontier  between  them  and  a  world  which  will  at  any  price  avoid 
leisure,  a  world  in  which  Theodore  Roosevelt  is  a  patron  of  the  arts. 
An  interesting  document,  of  this  latter  world  is  the  Letters  of  a 
nimbly  dull  poet  of  a  younger  generation,  of  Henry  James's  genera- 
tion, Richard  Watson  Gilder,  Civil  Service  Reform,  Tenement 
House  Commisison,  Municipal  Politics. 


T  he    Little    Review  49 


Of  course  leisure  in  a  metropolis,  with  a  civilized  society  (the  so- 
ciety of  Boston  was  and  is  quite  uncivilized  but  refined  beyond  the 
point  of  civilisation)  with  exchange  of  ideas  and  critical  standards 
would  have  been  better;  but  these  men  could  not  provide  the  nie- 
tropolis,  and  were  right  in  taking  the  leisure  under  possible  condi- 
tions. .  .  ^,  . 

Precisely  this  leisure,  this  dignity,  this  literary  aristocracy,  this 
unique  character  of  a  society  in  which  the  men  of  letters  were  also  of 
the  best  people,  clings  to  Henry  James.  It  is  some  consciousness  of 
this  kinship  which  makes  him  so  tender  and  gentle  in  his  apprecia- 
tions of  Emerson,  Norton  and  the  beloved  Ambassador.  With  Haw- 
thorne, as  much  the  most  important  of  these  people  in  any  question 
of  literary  art,  his  relation  is  more  personal;  but  no  more  in  the  case 
of  Hawthorne  than  with  any  of  the  other  figures  of  the  background 
is  there  any  consideration  of  influence.  James  owes  little,  very  little, 
to  anyone;  there  are  certain  writers  whom  he  consciously  studied, 
of  whom  Hawthorne  was  not  one;  but  in  any  case  his  relation  to 
Hawthorne  is  on  another  plane  from  his  relation  to  Balzac,  for  ex- 
ample. The  influence  of  Balzac,  not  on  the  whole  a  good  influence, 
is  perfectly  evident  in  some  of  the  earlier  novels;  the  influence  of 
Turgenev  is  vaguer,  but  more  useful.  That  James  was,  at  a  certain 
period,  more  moved  by  Balzac,  that  he  followed  him  with  more  con- 
centrated admiration,  is  clear  from  the  tone  of  his  criticism  of  that 
writer  compared  with  the  tone  of  his  criticism  of  either  Turgenev  or 
Hawthorne.  In  Freiich  Poets  and  Novelists,  though  an  early  work. 
James's  attitude  toward  Balzac  is.  exactly  that  of  having  been  very 
much  attracted  from  his  orbit,  perhaps  very  wholesomely  stimulated 
at  an  age  when  almost  any  foreign  stimulus  may  be  good,  and  having 
afterwards  reacted  from  Balzac,  though  not  to  the  point  of  injustice. 
He  handles  Balzac  shrewdly  and  fairly.  From  the  essay  on  Tur- 
genev there  is  on  the  other  hand  very  little  to  be  got  but  a  touching 
sense  of  appreciation;,  from  the  essay  on  Flaubert  even  less.  The 
charming  study  of  Hawthorne  is  quite  different  from  any  of  these. 
The  first  conspicuous  quality  in  it  is  tenderness,  the  tenderness  of  a 
man  who  had  escaped  too  early  from  an  environment  to  be  warped 
or  thwarted  by  it,who  had  escaped  so  effectually  that  he  could  afford 
the  gift  of  affection.  At  the  same  time  he  places  his  finger,  now  and 
then,  very  gently,  on  some  of  Hawthorne's  more  serious  defects  as 
well  as  his  limitations. 

"The  best  things  come,  as  a  general  thing,  from  the  talents 


50  The    Little    Review 

that  are  members  of  a  group;  every  man  works  better  when  he 
has  companions  working  in  the  same  line,  and  yielding  the  stim- 
ulus of  suggestion,  comparison,  emulation." 
Though  when  he  says  that 

"there  was  manifestly  a  strain  of  generous  indolence  in  his 
(Hawthorne's)  composition" 
he  is  understating  the  fault  of  laziness  for  which  Hawthorne  can 
chiefly  be  blamed.  But  gentleness  is  needed  in  criticising  Haw- 
thorne, a  necessary  thing  to  remember  about  whom  is  precisely  the 
difficult  fact  that  the  soil  which  produced  him  with  his  essential  fla- 
vour is  the  soil  which  producec|,  just  as  inevitably,  the  environment 
which  stunted  him.  i 

In  one  thing  alone  Hawthorne  is  more  solid  than  James:  he  had 
a  very  acute  historical  sense.  His  erudition  in  the  small  field  of 
American  colonial  history  was  extensive,  and  he  made  most  fortunate 
use' of  it.  Both  men  had  that  sense  of  the  past  which  is  peculiarly 
American,  but  in  Hawthorne  this  sense  exercised  itself  in  a  grip  on 
the  past  itself;  in  James  it  is  a  sense  of  the  sense.  This,  however, 
need  not  be  dwelt  upon  here.  The  really  vital  thing,  in  finding  any 
personal  kinship  between  Hawthorne  and  James,  is  what  James 
touches  lightly  when  he  says  that 

"the  fine  thing  in  Hawthorne  is  that  he  cared  for  the  deeper 
psychology,  and  that,  in  his  way,  he  tried  to  become  familiar 
with  it." 
There  are  other  points  of  resemblance,  not  directly  included  under 
this,  but  this  one  is  of  the  first  importance.  It  is,  in  fact,  almosi 
enough  to  ally  the  two  novelists,  in  comparison  with  whom  almost  al 
others  may  be  accused  of  either  superficiality  or  aridity.  I  am  nol 
saying  that  this  "deeper  psychology"  is  essential,  or  that  it  can  al- 
ways be  had  without  loss  of  other  qualities,  or  that  a  novel  need  be 
any  the  less  a  work  of  art  without  it.  It  is  a  definition;  and  it  sepa- 
rates the  two  novelists  at  once  from  the  English  contemporaries  o) 
either.  Neither  Dickens  nor  Thackeray,  certainly,  had  the  smallest 
notion  of  the  "deeper  psychology";  George  Eliot  had  a  kind  of  heav> 
intellect  for  it  (Tito)  but  all  her  genuine  feeling  went  into  the  visual 
realism  of  Amos  Barton.  On  the  continent  it  is  known;  but  the  meth- 
od of  Stendhal  or  of  Flaubert  is  quite  other.  A  situation  is  for  Stend- 
hal something  deliberately  constructed,  often  an  illustration.  There  is 
a  bleakness  about  it.  vitalised  by  force  rather  than  feeling,  and  its 
presentation  is  definitely  visual.  Hawthorne  and  James  have  a  kind 
of  sense,  a  receptive  medium,  which  is  not  of  sight.  Not  that  they  fail 
to  make  you  sec,  so  far  as  necessary,  but  sight  is  not  the  essential 


The    Little    Review  S' 


sense.  They  perceive  by  antennae;  and  the  "deeper  psychology"  is 
here.  The  deeper  psychology  indeed  led  Hawthorne  to  some  of  his  ab- 
surdest  and  most  characteristic  excesses;  it  was  for  ever  tailing  off  into 
the  fanciful,  even  the  allegorical,  which  is  a  lazy  substitute  for  pro- 
fundity. The  fancifulness  is  the  "strain  of  generous  indolence",  the 
attempt  to  get  the  artistic  effect  by  meretricious  means.  On  this 
side  a  critic  might  seize  hold  of  The  Turn  of  the  Screw,  a  tale  about 
which  I  have  many  doubts;  but  the  actual  working  out  of  this  is  dif- 
ferent from  Hawthorne's,  and  we  are  not  interested  in  approximation 
of  the  two  men  on  the  side  of  their  weakness.  The  point  is  that 
Hawthorne  was  acutely  sensitive  to  the  situation;  that  he  did  grasp 
character  through  the  relation  of  two  or  more  persons  to  each  other; 
and  this  is  what  no  one  else,  except  James,  has  done.  Furthermore, 
he  does  establish,  as  James' establishes,  a  solid  atmosphere,  and  he 
does,  in  his  quaint  way,  get  New  England,  as  James  gets  a  larger 
part  of  America,  and  as  none  of  their  respective  contemporaries  get 
anything  above  a  village  or  two.  or  a  jungle.  Compare,  with  any- 
thing that  any  English  contemporary  could  do,  the  situation  which 
Hawthorne  sets  up  in  the  relation  of  Dimmesdale  and  Chilling- 
worth.  Judge  Pyncheon  and  Clifford.  Hepzibah  and  Phoebe,  are 
similarly  achieved  by  their  relation  to  each  other;  Clifford,  for  one, 
being  simply  the  intersection  of  a  relation  to  three  other  characters. 
The  only  dimension  in  which  Hawthorne  could  expand  was  the  past, 
his  present  being  so  narrowly  barren.  It  is  a  great  pity,  with  his  re- 
markable gift  of  observation,  that  the  present  did  not  offer  him  more 
to  observe.  But  he  is  the  one  English-writing  predecessor  of  James 
whose  characters  are  aware  of  each  other,  the  one  whose  novels  were 
in  any  deep  sense  a  criticism  of  even  a  slight  civilization;  and  here 
is  something  more  definite  and  closer  than  any  derivation  we  can 
trace  from  Richardson  or  Marivaux. 

The  fact  that  the  sympathy  with  Hawthorne  is  most  felt  in  the 
last  of  James's  novels.  The  Sense  of  the  Past,  makes  me  the  more 
certain  of  its  genuiness.  In  the  meantime,  James  has  been  through  a 
much  more  elaborate  development  than  poor  Hawthorne  ever  knew. 
Hawthorne,  with  his  very  limited  culture,  was  not  exposed  to  any 
bewildering  variety  of  influences.  James,  in  his  astonishing  career  of 
self-improvement,  touches  Hawthorne  most  evidently  at  the  begin- 
ning and  end  of  his  course;  at  the  beginning,  simply  as  a  young  New 
Englander  of  letters;  at  the  end,  with  almost  a  gesture  of  approach. 
Roderick  Hudson  is  the  novel  of  a  clever  and  expanding  young  New 
Englander;  immature,  but  just  coming  out  to  a  self-consciousness 


52  T  he    Li  t  tie    Re  view 

where  Hawthorne  never  arrived  at  all.  Compared  with  Daisy  Miller  ;• 
or  The  Europeans  or  The  American  its  critical  spirit  is  very  crude. 
But  The  Marble  Faun  (Transformation),  the  only  European  novel  - 
of  Hawthorne,  is  of  Cimmerian  opacity;  the  mind  of  its  author  was 
closed  to  new  impressions  though  with  all  its  Walter  Scott-Mysteries 
of  Udolpho  upholstery  the  old  man  does  establish  a  kind  of  solid  moral 
atmosphere  which  the  young  James  does  not  get.  James  in  Roderick 
Hudson  does  very  little  better  with  Rome  than  Hawthorne,  and  as  he 
confesses  in  the  later  preface,  rather  fails  with  Northampton.* 

He  does  in  the  later  edition  tone  down  the  absurdities  of  Rod- 
erick's sculpture  a  little,  the  pathetic  Thirst  and  the  gigantic  Adam; 
Mr.  Striker  remains  a  failure,  the  judgement  of  a  young  man  con- 
sciously humourising,  too  suggestive  of  Martin  Chuzzlewit.  The 
generic  resemblance  to  Hawthorne  is  in  the  occasional  heavy  faceti- 
ousness  of  the  style,  the  tedious  whimsicality  how  different  from  the 
exactitude  of  The  American  Scene,  the  verbalism.  He  too  much 
identifies  himself  with  Rowland,  does  not  see  through  the  solemnity 
he  has  created  in  that  character,  commits  the  cardinal  sin  of  failing 
to  "detect"  one  of  his  own  characters.  The  failure  to  create  a  situ- 
ation is  evident:  with  Christina  and  Mary,  each  nicely  adjusted,  but 
never  quite  set  in  relation  to  each  other.  The  interest  of  the  book  for 
our  present  purpose  is  what  he  does  not  do  in  the  Hawthorne  way, 
in  the  instinctive  attempt  to  get  at  something  larger,  which  will  bring 
him  to  the  same  success  with  much  besides. 

The  interest  in  the  "deeper  psychology",  the  observation,  and 
the  sense  for  situation,  developed  from  book  to  book,  culminate  in 
The  Sense  of  the  Past  (by  no  means  saying  that  this  is  his  best) 
uniting  with  other  qualities  both  personal  and  racial.  James's  great- 
ness is  apparent  both  in  his  capacity  for  development  as  an  artist  and 
his  capacity  for  keeping  his  mind  alive  to  the  changes  in  the  world 
during  twenty-five  years:  It  is  remarkable  (for  the  mastery  of  a 
span  of  American  history)  that  the  man  who  did  the  Wentworth 
family  in  the  '80s  could  do  the  Bradhams  in  the  'oos.  In  The  Sense 
of  the  Past  the  Midmores  belong  to  the  same  generation  as  the  Brad- 
hams;  Ralph  belongs  to  the  same  race  as  the  A'N^entworths.  indeed  as 


*  Was  Hawthorne  at  all  in  his  mind  here?  In  criticising  the  House  of 
the  Seven  Gables  he  says  "it  renders,  to  an  initiated  reader,  the  impression 
of  a  summer  afternoon  in  an  elm-shaded  New  E'ngland  town",  and  in  the  preface 
to  Roderick  Hudson  he  says  "what  the  early  chapters  of  the  book  most 
'render'  to  me  today  is  not  the  umbrageous  air  of  their  New  England  town." 


The    Little     Review  53 

the  Pyncheons.  Compare  the  book  with  77/e  House  of  t/ie  Seven 
Gables  (Hawthorne's  best  novel  after  all) ;  the  situation,  the  "shrink- 
age and  extinction  of  a  family"  is  rather  more  complex,  on  the  sur- 
face, than  James's  with(so  far  as  the  book  was  done) fewer  character- 
relations.  But  James's  real  situation  here,  to  which  Ralph's  mount- 
ing the  step  is  the  key,  as  Hepzibah's  opening  of  her  shop,  is  a  situ- 
ation of  different  states  of  mind.  James's  situation  is  the  shrinkage 
and  extinction  of  an  idea.  The  Pyncheon  tragedy  is  simple;  the 
"curse"  upon  the  family  a  matter  of  the  simplest  fairy  mechanics. 
James  has  taken  Hawthorne's  ghost-sense  and  given  it  substance.  At 
the  same  time  making  the  tragedy  much  more  etherial:  the  tragedy  of 
that  "Sense",  the  hypertrophy,  in  Ralph,  of  a  partial  civilization;  the 
vugalr  vitarty  of  the  Midmores  in  their  financial  decay  contrasted 
with  the  decay  of  Ralph  in  his  financial  prosperity,  when  they  precise- 
ly should  have  been  the  civilisation  he  had  come  to  seek.  All  this 
watched  over  by  the  absent,  but  conscious  Aurora.  I  do  not  want  to 
insist  upon  the  Hawthorneness  of  the  confrontation  of  the  portrait, 
the  importance  of  the  opening  of  a  door.  We  need  surely  not  insist 
that  this  book  is  the  most  important,  most  substantial  sort  of  thing 
that  James  did;  perhaps  there  is  more  solid  wear  even  in  that  other 
unfin'shed  Ii'ory  Tower.  But  I  consider  that  it  was  an  excursion  which 
we  could  well  permit  him,  after  a  lifetime  in  which  he  had  taken  tal- 
ents s'miliar  to  Hawthorne's  and  made  them  yield  far  greater  returns 
than  poor  Hawthorne  could  harvest  from  his  granite  soil;  a  permissi- 
ble exercise,  in  which  we  may  by  a  legitimately  cognate  fancy  seem 
to  detect  Hawthorne  coming  to  a  mediumistic  existence  again,  to  re- 
mind a  younger  and  incredulous  generation  of  what  he  really  was, 
had  he  had  the  opportunity,  and  to  attest  his  satisfaction  that  that 
!)pportunity  had  been  given  to  James. 

THE    NOTES    ON    NOVELISTS 
John  Rodker 


HAT  Henry  James  found  time  to  produce  these  criticisms  of 
contemporary  writing  in  the  leisure  left  by  his  other  work  is 
an  equal  mystery  with  Balzac's  working  day  of  fifteen  hours  and 
the  twenty-three  hour-or-so  day  of  Michael-Angelo.     But  that  his 


T 


54  The    Little    Review 


valuations  should  remain  at  the  same  time  so  just  and  so  unlikely 
to  be  revised  by  posterity,  that  is  a  greater  miracle. 

It  is  true,  of  course  that  James  does  not  give  away  very  much  or 
let  himself  go  too  thoroughly,  but  that  is  the  caution  of  age  and 
experience.  He  admires  the  spirit  that  could  impel  Zola  to  contemp- 
late a  series  like  the  Rougon  Macquart,  but  —  and  little  by  little 
in  his  gentle  way  he  wears  away  the  whole  scructure  till  nothing 
remains.  The  end  of  his  essay  leaves  a  figure,  crumbling  rapidly, 
with  perhaps  an  odd  finger  untouched  by  the  rot.  With  Balzac  too  it 
is  much  the  same  thing.  "O  yes,  the  Comedie  Humaine,  most  won- 
derful, inconceivable  energy,  but  really  you  know,  critics  have  said 
that  three  quarters  of  Balzac  might  quite  well  have  been  omitted." 
Even  his  praise,  instead  of  enhancing  the  value  of  his  subject  serves 
only  to  depreciate  it. 

"Every  piece  we  handle  is  so  full  of  stuff,  condensed  like  the 
edibles  provided  for  campaigns  and  explorations,  positively  so 
charged  with  distilled  life  that  we  find  ourselves  dropping  it  in  cer- 
tain states  of  sensibility,  as  we  drop  an  object  ungaurdedly  touched 
that  startles  us  by  being  animate.  We  seem  really  scarce  to  want 
anything  to  be  so  animate."  This  is  of  course  the  complaint  of  a 
comprehensible  god,  and  one  has  heard  it  before. 

But  what  then  does  Mr.  James  want.  He  is  pleased  when  he 
meets  "saturation"  in  the  novels  of  Mr.  Walpole  and  "tone"  is  to 
him  the  "Je-ne-sais-quoi"  that  makes  for  permanence  and  a  colossal 
conception  is  entirely  praiseworthy  and  awe-inspiring:  but  — 

Flaubert  he  treats  with  most  sympathy,  and  that  presumably 
because  each  treated  his  subject  in  a  somewhat  similar  manner.  He 
does  not  trouble  here  to  point  out  felicities,  or  to  analyse  influences. 
His  criticism  in  this  case  is  "en-bloc"  and  his  references  to  Flaubert's 
characters  are  entirely  sympathetic. 

But  what  really  excites  Henry  James  is  not  the  work  as  such 
but  the  prospect  of  the  writer  overwhelmed  by  his  task — like  an 
ant  with  a  large  piece  of  stick,  gathering  all  its  power  to  get  the 
quarry  home.  James  sees  the  author  in  his  library  (with  Flaubert, 
on  his  bed)  gathering  himself  together  for  this  altogether  superhuman 
effort,  and  then  its  painful  accomplishment .  This  is  the  point  where 
our  critic's  control  gives  out  .He  too  claps  with  the  audience.  In- 
deed how  could  he  refrain  when  it  was  himself  he  saw  on  that  iden- 
tical stage. 

The  queer  thing  about  these  notes  is  that  in  the  case  of  George 
Sand  and  Balzac  time  only  confirms  his  judgment,  as  can  be  seen 


The    Little    Review  55 

rom  the  three  articles  on  George  Sand  dated  1897-99  and  19 14  and 
hose  on  Balzac  of  1902  and  1913. 

The  notes  on  George  Sand  leave  the  strongest  impression  on 
he  reader,  probably  because  her  literature  was  more  open  to  him. 
.ike  all  of  us,  James  could  not  but  love  a  "cause  celebre",  and  the 
iiteractions  of  George  Sand  upon  her  lovers  —  "interesting  figures 
11  of  them" — centuple  the  original  interest  which  would  have  at- 
ached  merely  to  her  vices.  James  seems  to  have  found  her  a  fas- 
inating  figure,  and  indeed  to  any  scholar  the  spectacle  of  one  who 
ved  so  hard  could  not  but  be  engrossing.  Physiologically  too  it 
ppears  easier  for  a  woman  to  expend  herself  prodigally  in  a  way 
hat  nature  will  not  permit  man,  and  this  element  of  bizarrerie  made 
er  the  more  interesting. 

For  the  artist  there  appears  to  be  a  ratio  between  life  and  art. 
Thus  life  plus  art  equals  i,  this  being  the  unit  of  permanence.  One 
ould  have  Life  as  i,  or  Art  as  i  or  as  complementary  fractions, 
jeorge  Sand  who  used  practically  the  whole  of  her  unit  in  living  has 
et  made  herself  permanent;  though  her  writing  as  such  may  very 
k^ell  soon  be  only  of  interest  to  bibliographers.  "She  lived  with  all 
ler  perceptions  and  in  all  her  chambers — not  merely  in  the  showroom 
>i  the  shops". 

This  irrepressible  energy  for  life,  so  nearly  akin  to  his  own  for 
iterature  makes  him  tell  this  story  so  appreciatively. 

"Prosper  Merimee  was  said  to  have  related  that  during  a 
erm  with  the  author  of  Lelia,  he  once  opened  his  eyes  in  the  raw 
winter  dawn  to  see  his  companion  in  a  dressing  gown,  on  her  knees 
)efore  the  domestic  hearth,  a  candle-stick  beside  her  and  a  red 
vladras  round  her  head,  making  bravely  with  her  own  hands  the  fire 
hat  was  to  enable  her  to  sit  down  betimes  to  urgent  pen  and  paper". 

The  story,  it  is  said,  chilled  Merimee's  ardour  but  only 
iwakened  that  of  James,  who  saw  in  it  an  "afflatus"  so  divine  that 
le  remained  open-mouthed.  Merimee  probably  felt  it  was  a  little 
ndecent — it  probably  struck  him  that  she  was  about  to  chronicle  all 
hat  had  gone  before,  before  the  bloom  was  off. 

But  that  of  course  is  the  difference.  From  the  study,  her  excess- 
's may  be  forgiven  her  and  faults  in  taste  do  not  scandalise  youn^^er 
generations. 

At  home  James  was  not  on  such  sure  ground.     His  article  on 

The  New  Novel",  although  fairly  adequate  is  I  think  emphasised 

vrongly.     He  gives  Mr  .Wells  his  true  value,  without  allowing  a 

ertain  cheapness  in  the  make-up  of  his  genius,  of  a  kind  without 


56  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

parallel  in  men  of  equal  talent.    And  the  notes  on  Mr.  Cannan  etc  | 
are  exceedingly  kind,  although  his  critical  genius  was  at  fault  when  h  ' 
did  not  realise  that  Mr.  D.  H.  Lawrence  was  in  a  class  apart;  an 
that  if  there  is  a  future  for  the  rhapsodical  and  lyrical  novel  it  i  ^■ 
in  his  hands.  j; 

THE  REVISED  VERSION  ] 

Theodora  Bosanquet 

TT  THEN  Henry  James  undertook  to  prepare  his  tales  and  novel ' 
kVx*  for  publication  in  the  definitive  edition  he  had  cultivated  th  ^ 
habit  of  forgetting  past  achievements  almost  to  the  pitch  c  \ 
sincere  conviction  that  nothing  of  his  produced  before  about  189  | 
could  come  with  any  credit  through  the  ordeal  of  a  critical  inspectior 
He  consequently  set  about  the  business  of  re-reading  and  selectin 
with  two  rare  advantages — unfamiliarity  and  an  adverse  prejudia 
The  prejudice  often,  happily,  gave  place  to  appreciation  as  the  unit 
miliarity  passed  into  recognition,  but  it  must  be  clear  to  any  reade 
of  the  prefaces  to  the  New  York  edition  that  he  never  lost  the  sens 
that  he  was  paternally  responsible  for  two  distinct  families.  Fc 
the  earlier  brood,  the  acknowledged  fruit  of  his  alliance  with  R( 
mance,  he  claimed  indulgence  on  the  ground  of  their  youthful  spor 
taneity,  their  confident  assurance,  their  rather  touching  good  faitl 
One  catches  echoes  of  a  plea  that  these  elderly  youngsters  may  not  t 
too  closely  compared,  to  their  inevitable  disadvantage,  with  the  ricl 
ly  endowed,  the  carefully  bred,  the  highly  civilised  and  sensitise 
children  of  his  second  marriage  with  Experience.  Attentive  readei 
of  the  novels  may  find  the  distinction  between  these  two  groups  1« 
remarkable  than  it  was  to  their  writer.  They  may  even  wondf 
whether  the  second  marriage  was  not  a  silver  wedding,  with  the  ol 
romantic  mistress  cleverly  disguised  as  a  woman  of  the  world.  It 
quite  possible  that  the  different  note  struck  so  audibly  for  Henr 
James's  ear  by  his  later  work  may  have  been  due  more  to  his  subst: 
tution  of  dictation  for  the  use  of  pens  and  ink  than  to  any  change  c 
heart.  The  interesting  thing  to  note,  whatever  the  reason,  is  that  h 
found  it  necessary  to  do  a  great  deal  of  work  on  the  earlier  tales  be 
fore  he  considered  them  fit  for  appearance  in  the  company  of  the  late 


The    Little    Review  57 


les.  Some  members  of  the  elder  family  he  entirely  disowned,  not 
mnting  them  worth  the  expense  of  the  contemplated  new  clothes, 
thers  he  left  in  their  place  more  from  respect  for  the  declared  taste 
■  his  reading  public  than  because  he  loved  them  for  tneir  own  sake. 

would,  for  instance,  scarcely  have  been  possible  to  exclude  Daisy 
(iller  from  any  representative  collection  of  his  work,  yet  the  popu- 
xity  of  the  tale  had  been  almost  a  grief  to  him.  To  be  acclaimed 
;  the  author  of  Daisy  Miller  by  persons  blandly  unconscious  of  The 
'ings  of  the  Dove  or  The  Golden  Bowl  was  a  reason  among  many  for 
:enry  James's  despair  of  intelligent  comprehension.  His  feelings 
jout  Daisy  resembled  those  of  some  grande  dame  possessing  a  jewel- 
ise  richly  stocked  with  glowing  rubies  and  flashing  diamonds,  but 
)ndemned  by  her  admirers  always  to  appear  in  the  simple  string  of 
oonstones  worn  at  her  first  dance. 

From  the  moment  he  began  to  read  over  the  earlier  tales  he 
lund  himself  involved  in  a  highly  practical  examination  of  the  scope 
id  limits  of  permissible  revision.  Poets,  as  he  pointed  out,  have  fre- 
iiently  revised  their  verse  with  good  effect.  Why  should  novelists 
3t  have  equal  license  The  only  sound  reason  for  not  altering  any- 
ling  is  the  conviction  that  it  couldn't  be  improved.  It  was  Henry 
unes's  profound  conviction  that  he  could  improve  his  early  writing 

nearly  every  sentence.    Not  to  revise  would  have  been  to  confess 

a  loss  of  faith  in  himself  and  it  was  unlikely  that  the  writer  who 
sted  for  forty  years  in  the  wilderness  of  British  and  American  mis- 
)nceptions  without  yielding  any  scrap  of  intellectual  honesty  to  edi- 
rial  or  publishing  tempters  should  have  lost  fa'th  in  himself.  But  he 
as  as  fully  aware  of  the  limits  of  revision  as  he  was  of  the  scope.  He 
lew  that  no  novelist  can  safely  afford  to  repudiate  h's  fundamental 
iderstanding  with  his  readers  that  the  tale  he  has  to  tell  is  at  least 

true  as  history  and  the  people  he  has  set  in  motion  at  least  as  unal- 
rable  at  a  given  moment  as  the  people  we  see  in  offices  and  railway 
irriages.  He  allowed  himself  few  freedoms  with  actions  or  appear- 
ices  already  recorded,  which  makes  it  worth  our  while  to  note  one 

these  rare  exceptions,  a  deliberate  substitution  in  the  second  ver- 
on  of  The  American.  Originally  the  old  Marquise  de  Bellegarde 
id  acknowledged  the  introduction  of  Newman  by  returning  his 
mdshake  ''with  a  sort  of  British  pos'tiveness  which  reminded  him 
at  she  was  the  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  St.  Dunstan's."    On  her  crea- 


58  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


tor's  second  thoughts  that  friendly  gesture  was  refused.    "Newman 
came  sufficiently  near  to  the  old  lady  by  the  fire  to  take  in  that  she 

would  offer  him  no  handshake Madame  de  Bellegarde  looked 

hard  at  him  and  refused  what  she  did  refuse  with  a  sort  of  British 
positiveness  which  reminded  him  that  she  was  the  daughter  of  the 
Earl  of  Samt  Dunstans."  There  were  two  good  reasons  why  the 
Marquise  should  not  have  extended  a  welcoming  hand  to  Newman. 
Her  attitude  was  throughout  to  be  consistently  hostile  and 
should  never  have  been  compromised  by  the  significantly 
Brit'sh  grip,  and  she  had  lived  too  long  in  her  husband's  country  not 
to  have  adopted  its  views  as  to  the  uses  of  a  lady's  hand.  Nevertheless 
it  is  really  shocking  to  see  her  revoking  her  very  first  card  after  play- 
ing it  for  so  many  years.  She  was  to  perform  less  credible  actions 
than  shaking  hands  with  an  intrusive  American,  as  her  progenitor , 
was  aware.  He  invited  his  readers,  in  the  preface  to  The  American, 
to  observe  the  impossible  behaviour  of  the  noble  Bellegarde  family, 
but  he  recogn'sed  that  since  they  had  been  begotten  in  absurdity 
the  Bellegardes  could  under  no  stress  of  revision  achieve  a  very  solid 
humanity.  The  best  he  could  do  for  them  was  to  let  a  faint  con- 
sciousness flush  the  mind  of  Valentin,  the  only  perceptive  member  of 
the  family.  In  the  first  edition  Valentin  warned  his  American  friend 
of  the  Bellegarde  peculiarities  with  the  easy  good  faith  of  the  younger 
Henry  James:  "My  mother  is  strange,  my  brother  is  strange,  and  I 
verily  believe  I  am  stranger  than  either.  Old  trees  have  crooked 
branches,  old  houses  have  queer  cracks,  old  races  have  odd  secrets." 
To  this  statement  he  added  in  the  revised  version:  "We're  fit  for  a 
museum  or  a  Balzac  novel."  A  similar  growth  of  ironic  perception 
was  allowed  to  Roderick  Hudson,  whose  comment  on  Rowland's  ad- 
mission of  hero'cally  concealed  passion  for  Mary  Garland:  "It's  like 
something  in  a  novel,"  was  altered  to  "It's  like  something  in  a  bad 
novel". 

But  the  real  business  of  revision  was,  for  Henry  James,  neither 
substitution  nor  rearrangement.  It  was  the  demonstration  of  values 
implicit  in  his  early  work,  the  retrieval  of  countless  lost  opportunities 
for  adequately  "rendering".  "It  was,"  he  remarked,  "all  sensibly, 
as  if  the  clear  matter  being  still  there,  even  as  a  shining  expanse  of 
snow  spread  over  a  plain,  my  exploring  tread,  for  application  to  it, 
had  quite  unlearned  the  old  pace  and  found  itself  naturally  falling 
into  another,  which  might  sometimes  indeed  more  or  less  agree  with 
the  original  tracks,  but  might  most  often,  or  very  nearly,  break  the 


T  he    Li  t  tie    Re  view  59 

surface  in  other  places.  What  was  thus  predominantly  interesting 
to  note,  at  all  events,  was  the  high  spontaneity  of  these  deviations 
and  differences,  which  became  thus  things  not  of  choice,  but  of  im- 
mediate and  perfect  necessity:  necessity  to  the  end  of  dealing  with 
the  quantities  in  question  at  all."  "The  act  of  revision,"  he  ex- 
plained in  the  same  preface  (to  The  Golden  Bowl),  "the  act  of  see- 
ing it  again,  caused  whatever  I  looked  at  on  any  page  to  flower  be- 
fore me  as  into  the  only  terms  that  honourably  expressed  it;  and  the 
'revised'  element  in  the  present  Edition  is  accordingly  these  terms, 
these  rigid  conditions  of  re-perusal,  registered;  so  many  close  notes, 
as  who  should  say,  on  the  particular  vision  of  the  matter  itself  that 
experience  had  at  last  made  the  only  possible  one."  It  will  be  no- 
ticed that  there  is  no  lack  of  confidence  in  these  words.  The  man 
of  literary  genius,  in  secure  possession  of  his  "faculties",  did  not 
bother  himself  with  doubts  as  to  his  ability  to  write  better  at  the 
end  of  a  lifetime  of  hard  work  and  varied  experience  than  at  the 
beginning.    He  knew  that  he  could  write  better. 

It  is  true  that  the  case  for  the  revised  version  cannot  rest  on 
its  greater  elegance.  It  is  not  so  simple  or  so  smooth  or,  on  the 
whole,  so  pretty  as  the  older  form.  But  it  is  nearly  always  richer 
and  more  alive.  Henry  James  was  more  concerned  to  give  the  sense 
of  an  emotional  tension  than  to  sketch  a  pretty  picture.  Truth  was 
dearer  to  him  than  a  smooth  surface  and  accurate  registration  of  each 
perceived  tone  more  valuable  than  a  selection  of  harmonies.  In  the 
later  version  early  abstractions  give  place  to  sharp  definite  images, 
loose  vague  phrases  to  close-locked  intensities  of  meaning.  As  a 
sample  of  the  kind  of  thing  he  was  trying  to  do  one  may  take  the 
changes  in  a  sentence  in  The  Madonna  of  the  Future,  a  tale  first 
published  in  1879.  This  is  the  original  form:  "His  professions, 
somehow,  were  all  half-professions,  and  his  allusions  to  his  work  and 
circumstances  left  something  dimly  ambiguous  in  the  background." 
In  the  New  York  edition  it  has  become:  "His  professions  were  prac- 
tically, somehow,  all  masks  and  screens,  and  his  personal  allusions, 
as  to  his  ambiguous  background,  mere  wavings  of  the  dim  lantern." 
It  would  be  easy  to  pick  out  passages  where  the  gain  in  verbal  beauty 
has  been  as  striking  as  the  gain  in  expression.  There  is  a  passage 
forming  part  of  the  fine  account  of  Newman's  silent  renunciation,  in 
the  cathedral  of  Notre  Dame,  of  his  meditated  revenge.  In  the  old 
edition  it  runs:  "He  sat  a  long  time;  he  heard  far-away  bells  chim- 
ing off,  at  long  intervals,  to  the  rest  of  the  world.  He  was  very  tired- 
this  was  the  best  place  he  could  be  in."    This  was  transformed  to: 


6o  The    Little    Review 


"He  sat  a  long  time;  he  heard  far-away  bells  chiming  off  into  space, 
at  long  intervals,  the  big  bronze  syllables  of  the  Word.  He  was 
very  tired,  but  such  a  place  was  a  kingdom  of  rest." 

It  would,  of  course,  be  equally  easy  to  select  examples  of  pretti- 
ness  sacrificed  to  sincerity  and  the  rhythm  of  a  sentence  destroyed 
by  qualifying  clauses;  just  as  one  might  set  against  the  gain  in  vigour 
introduced  by  idiom  and  abbreviation  into  the  dialogue  the  loss  in 
verisimilitude  due  to  adverbial  interpositions.  I  propose  to  quote, 
therefore,  an  extract  of  sufficient  length  to  give  the  general  sense  of 
the  revision.  The  passage  is  taken  from  Four  Meetings,  a  work 
which  was  revised  with  extreme  care. 

Here  is  the  earlier  version.  The  relater  of  the  tale  is  showing 
a  book  of  photographs  of  places  in  Europe  to  the  little  New  England 
spinster,  Caroline  Spencer.  They  have  just  come  upon  a  representa- 
tion of  the  Castle  of  Chillon. 

She  looked  awhile,  and  then  she  asked  if  it  was  not  where  Bonivard, 
about  whom  Byron  wrote,  was  confined.  I  assented,  and  tried  to  quote  some 
of  Byron's  verses,  but  in  this  attempt  I  succeeded  imperfectly. 

She  fanned  herself  a  moment  and  then  repeated  the  lines  corrctly,  in  a 
soft,  flat  and  yet  agreeable  voice.  By  the  time  she  had  finished,  she  was 
blushing.  I  complimented  her  and  told  her  she  was  perfectly  equipped  for 
visiting  Switzerland  and  Italy.  She  looked  at  me  askance  again,  to  see 
whether  I  was  serious,  and  I  added,  that  if  she  wished  to  recognise  Byron's 
descriptions  she  must  go  abroad  speedily;  Europe  was  getting  sadly  dis- 
Byronised. 

"How  soon  must  I  go?"  she  asked. 

"Oh,  I  will  give  you  ten  years." 

"I  think  I  can  go  within  ten  years,"  she  answered  very  soberly. 

"Well,"  I  said,  "you  will  enjoy  it  immensely;  you  will  find  it  very 
charming." 

The  new  version  runs: 

She  looked  a  while  and  then  asked  if  it  weren't  where  Bonivard,  about 
whom  Byron  wrote,  had  been  confined.  I  assented,  trying  to  quote  Byron's 
verses,  but  not  quite  bringing  it  off. 

She  fanned  herself  a  moment  and  then  repeated  the  lines  correctly,  in  a 
soft  flat  voice  but  with  charming  conviction.  By  the  time  she  had  finished, 
she  was  neverthless  blushing.  I  complimented  her  and  assured  her  she  was 
perfectly  equipped  for  visiting  Switzerland  and  Italy,  She  looked  at  me 
askance  again,  to  sec  if  I  might  be  serious,  and  I  added  that  if  she  wished  to 


The     Little     Review  6i 

recognise  Byron's  descriptions  she  must  go  abroad  speedily  —  Europe  was 
getting  sadly  dis-Byronised.     "How  soon  must  I  go?"  she  thereupon  enquired. 

"Oh  I'll  give  you  ten  years." 

"Well,  I  guess  I  can  go  in  that  time,"  she  answered  as  if  measuring  her 
words. 

"Then  you'll  enjoy  it  immensely,"  I  said;  "you'll  find  it  of  the  highest 
interest."  " 

I  quote  another  passage  from  the  final  "meeting",  at  which  the 
indignant  narrator  watches  Caroline  ministering  to  the  vulgar  French 
cocotte  who  has  imposed  herself  on  her  hospitality  as  the  widow 
of  a  graceless  American  cousin.  The  cousin  had  previously  stripped 
the  innocent  little  New  Englander,  at  the  moment  of  her  disembarka- 
tion on  European  soil,  of  all  her  gathered  savings.  His  relict  is  not 
lilcely  to  allow  of  any  further  sums  being  scraped  together  by  her 
unfortunate  hostess. 

At  this  moment  CaroUne  Spencer  came  out  of  the  house,  bearing  a 
coffee-pot  on  a  Httle  tray.  I  noticed  that  on  her  way  from  the  door  to  the 
table  she  gave  me  a  single  quick,  vaguely  appealing  glance.  I  wondered 
what  it  signified;  I  felt  that  it  signified  a  sort  of'  half-frightened  longing  to 
know  what,  as  a  man  of  the  world  who  had  been  in  France.  I  thought  of 
the  Countess.  It  made  me  extremely  uncomfortable.  I  could  not  tell  her 
that  the  Countess  was  very  possibly  the  runaway  wife  of  a  little  hairdresser. 
I  tried,  suddenly,  on  the  contrary,  to  show  a  high  consideration  for  her. 

In  the  definitive  edition  the  passage  has  been  packed  full  of 
additional  meaning. 

Our  hostess  moreover  at  this  moment  came  out  of  the  house,  bearing  a 
coffee-pot  and  three  cups  on  a  neat  little  tray.  I  took  from  her  eyes,  as 
she  approached  us,  a  brief  but  intense  appeal  —  the  mute  expression,  as  I 
felt,  conveyed  in  the  hardest  little  look  she  had  yet  addressed  me,  of  her 
longing  to  know  what,  as  a  man  of  the  world  in  general  and  of  the  French 
world  in  particular,  I  thought  of  these  alhed  forces  now  so  encamped  on  the 
stricken  field  of  her  life.  I  could  only  "act"  however,  as  they  said  at  North 
Verona,  quite  impenetrably  — ■  only  make  no  answering  sign.  I  couldn't  inti- 
mate, much  less  could  I  frankly  utter,  my  inward  sense  of  the  Countess's 
probable  past,  with  its  measure  of  her  virtue,  value  and  accomplishments,  and 
of  the  limits  of  the  consideration  to  which  she  could  properly  pretend.  I 
•ouldn't  give  my  friend  a  hint  of  how  I  myself  personally  "saw"  her  inter- 
esting pensioner  —  whether  as  the  runaway  wife  of  a  too- jealous  hair-dresser 
or  of  a  too-morose  pastry-cook,  say;  whether  as  a  very  small  bourgeoise,  in 


62  T  he  Lit  tie  Re  view 


fine,  who  had  vitiated  her  case  beyond  patching  up,  or  even  as  some  character, 
of  the  nomadic  sort,  less  edifying  still.  I  couldn't  let  in,  by  the  jog  of  a  shut- 
ter, as  it  were,  a  hard  informing  ray  and  then,  washing  my  hands  of  the 
business,  turn  my  back  for  ever.  I  could  on  the  contrary  but  save  the  situa- 
tion, my  own  at  least,  for  the  moment,  by  pulling  myself  together  with  a 
master  hand  and  appearing  to  ignore  everything  but  that  the  dreadful  per- 
son between  us  zvas  a  "grande  dame." 

I  have  tried  to  indicate,  so  far  as  it  is  at  all  possible  to  indicate 
anything  within  the  limits  of  space  and  copyright  restrictions,  the 
general  direction  of  Henry  James's  revision.  Anyone  who  wants  to 
discover  for  himself  the  mode  of  growth  of  a  great  artist's  sensibility, 
"the  how  and  the  whence  and  the  why  these  intenser  lights  of  ex- 
perience come  into  being  and  insist  on  shining",  may  profitably  read 
the  old  and  the  new  versions  of  The  American,  The  Portrait  of  a 
Lady,  The  Princess  Casamassima,  and  any  of  the  shorter  tales  pub- 
lished during  the  'seventies  and  the  'eighties.  Such  an  adventurer 
will  be  as  well  qualified  as  he  can  be  —  "granting,  of  course,  to 
begin  with,  a  mind  accessible  to  questions  of  such'  an  order"'  — 
for  judging  between  a  provocative  young  critic's  verdict  that  "all 
the  early  works  have  been  subjected  to  a  revision  which  in  several 
cases,  notably  Daisy  Miller  and  Four  Meetings,  amounts  to  their 
ruin,"  and  their  writer's  confident  hope  that  he  "shouldn't  have 
breathed  upon  the  old  catastrophes  and  accidents,  the  old  wounds 
and  mutilations  and  disfigurements,  wholly  in  vain  ....  I  have 
prayed  that  the  finer  air  of  the  better  form  may  sufficiently  seem  to 
hang  about  them  and  gild  them  over  —  at  least  for  readers,  how- 
ever few,  at  all  curious  of  questions  of  air  and  form." 

THE  NOTES  TO  "THE  IVORY  TOWER"* 
Ezra     Pound 

THE  great  artists  among  men  of  letters  have  occasionally  and 
by  tradition  burst  into  an  Ars  Poetica  or  an  Arte  nuevo  de  hacer 
Comedias,  and  it  should  come  as  no  surprise  that  Henry  James  has 
left  us  some  sort  of  treatise  on  novel-writing — no  surprise,  that  is, 
to  the  discriminating  reader  who  is  not,  for  the  most  part,  a  writer 
of  English  novels.  Various  reviewers  have  hinted  obscurely  that 
some  such  treatise  is  either  adumbrated  or  concealed  in  the  Notes 
for  The  Ivory  Tower  and  for  The  Sense  of  the  Past;  they  have 

*  Recast  from  an  article  in  The  Future. 


The    Little    Review  63 


aid,  indeed,  that  novelists  will  "profit  greatly",  etc.,  but  no  one  has 
et  forth  the  gist  or  the  generalities  which  are  to  be  found  in  these 
lotes. 

Divested  of  its  fine  verbiage,  of  its  cliches,  of  its  provincialisms 
)f  American  phrase,  and  of  the  special  details  relating  to  the  par- 
icular  book  in  his  mind,  the  formula  for  building  a  novel  (any 
lovel,  not  merely  any  "psychological"  novel);  the  things  to  have 
learly  in  mind  before  starting  to  write  it,  are  enumerated  in  The 
'vary  Tower  notes  somewhat  as  follows:- — 

I.  Choice  of  names  for  characters;  names  that  will  "fit" 
heir  owners,  and  that  will  not  "joggle"  or  be  kakophonic  when  in 
uxtaposition  on  the  page. 

2._  Exposition  of  one  group  of  characters  and  of  the  "situa- 
ion".  (In  The  Ivory  Tower  this  was  to  be  done  in  three  sub- 
iivisions.    "Book  I"  was  to  give  the  "Immediate  Facts")  . 

3.  One  character  at  least  is  hitched  to  his  "characteristic". 
We  are  to  have  one  character's  impression  on  another. 

4.  (Book  III.)  Various  reactions  and  interactions  of  charac- 
:ers. 

5.  The  character,  i.e.,  the  main  character  is  "faced  with  the 
situation". 

6.  For  The  Ivory  Tower  and  probably  for  any  novel,  there 
is  now  need  to  show  clearly  and  definitely  the  "antecedents",  i.e., 
anything  that  had  happened  before  the  story  started.  And  we  find 
Henry  James  making  up  his  mind  which  characters  have  interacted 
before  this  story  opens,  and  which  things  are  to  be  due  to  fresh  im- 
pacts of  one  character  on  another. 

7.  Particular  consideration  of  the  special  case  in  hand.  The 
working- free  from  incongruities  inherent  in  the  first  vague  precon- 
ceptions of  the  plot.    Thus: 

(a)  The  hinge  of  the  thing  is  not  to  be  the  effect  of  A.  on 
B.  or  of  B.  on  A.;  nor  of  A.  on  C.  or  of  C.  on  B. 
but  is  to  be  due  to  an  effect  all  round,  of  A.  and  B. 
and  C.  working  on  each  other. 

(b)  James's  care  not  to  repeat  figures  from  earlier  novels. 
Not  a  categoric  prohibition,  but  a  caution  not  to 
sail  too  near  the  wind  in  this  matter. 

(c)  A  care  not  to  get  too  many  "personally  remarkable" 
people,   and  not  enough  stupid  ones  into  the  story. 

(d)  Care  for  the  relative  "weight"  as  well  as  the  varied  "tone" 
of  the  characters. 


64  The    Little    Review 


(We  observe,  in  all  this,  the  peculiarly  American  passion  f( 
"art";  for  having  a  system  in  things,  cf.  Whistler). 

(e)  Consideration  how  far  one  character  "faces"  the  proble 
of  another  character's  "character". 

(This  and  section  "d"  continue  the  preoccupation  with  "mor 
values"  shown  in  James's  early  criticism  in  French  Poets  m 
Novelists.  \ 

8.  Definite  "joints" ;  or  relations  of  one  character  to  anoth 
finally  fitted  and  settled. 

This  brings  us  again  to  point  5.  The  character,  i.e.,  t 
main  character  definitely  "faced"  with  the  situation. 

9.  The  consequences. 

ID.     (a)   Further  consideration  of  the  state  of  character 
before  contact  with  B.,  etc. 

(b)  The  effect  of  further  characters  on  the  mind,  ai 
thence  on  the  action  of  A. 

(c)  Considerations  of  the  effect  of  a  fourth  main  chara 
ter;    of  introducing  a  subsidiary  character,   and 
effect,  i.e.,  that  of  having  an  extra  character  for 
particular  function. 

II.    The  great  "coup''  foreshadowed. 

(In  this  case  the  mild  Othello,  more  and  more  drifting  cc 
sciously  into  the  grip  of  the  mild  lago — I  use  the  terms  "Othell 
and  "lago"  merely  to  avoid,  if  not  "hero",  at  least  "villain";  t 
sensitive  temperament  allowing  the  rapacious  temperament  to  I 
come  effective)  . 

(a)  The  main  character  in  perplexity  as  to  how  far  he  sh 

combat  the  drift  of  things. 

(b)  The  opposed  character's  perception  of  this. 

(These  sub-sections  are,  of  course,  sub-sections  for  a  psyct 
logical  novel;   one  would  have  different  but  equivalent  "joints" 
a  novel  of  action) . 

(c)  Effect   of    all    this   on    third   character.      (In    this   ca 

female,  attracted  to  "man-of-action"  quality)  . 

(d)  A.'s  general  perception  of  these  things  and  his  weighi 

of  values,  a  phase  solely  for  the  psychological  nov 

(e)  Weighing  of  how  much  A.'s  perception  of  the  relatio 

between  B.  and  C.  is  to  be  denouement,  and  hi 
?^  much  more  or  less,  known. 

\ ,  '  {To  be  continued) 


Announcements 

The  New  York  edition  of  Henry  James,  in  twenty-six 
volumes,  is  published  by  Charles  Scribner's  Sons,  New  York 
City. 

The  Novels  of  Henry  James,  in  twenty-four  volumes, 
Macmillan,  London,  1908. 

"A  Small  Boy  and  Others,  1913,  "Notes  of  a  Son  and 
Brother",  19 14,  Macmillan,  London. 

"The  American  Scene",  Chapman  and  Hall,  London, 
1907. 

"The  Ivory  Tower",  The  Sense  of  the  Past",  and  "The 
Middle  Years",  W.  Collins  and  Son,  London,  191 7. 

Further  MSS.  on  Henry  James  for  which  there  is  not 
room  in  this  number  will  appear  in  later  issues  of  the  Little 
Review. 

Episode  VL  of  James  Joyce's  "Ulysses"  and  the  con- 
clusion of  Ford  Madox  Hueffer's  "Women  and  Men"  will 
appear  in  the  next  number. 

"In  Memory  of  Robert  Gregory",  by  William  Butler 
Yeats,  will  be  a  feature  of  the  Sqjtember  number;  and  seven 
new  lyrics  by  Mr.  Yeats  will  appear  in  October. 

Errata 

Through  some  untraceable  mistake  the  Little  Review 
for  January  1918  was  printed  as  Volume  V.,  No.  9,  Please 
correct  your  copies  as  follows: 

January  19 18,  Volume  IV.,  No.  9 

February  19 18,  Volume  IV.,  No.  10 

March  1918,  Volume  IV.,  No.   11 

April  19 1 8,  Volume  IV.,  No.  12 

May  19 1 8,  Volimie  V.,  No.  1 

June  19 1 8,  Volume  V.,  No.  2 


THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF   PIANOS 

313    FIFTH   AVENUE 
NEW   YORK 


No  Oilier  Typewriter 
CeoiDoThiV- 

H'rile  All  Languages,  All  Sciences,  All  Sizes 
and  Style  of  type  on  ONE  machine. 

Multiplex  Hammond 

'^Writing  Machine'' 

multiplex  hammond's 

Many   styles,    nany  languages 
Two  types  or  I  anguages  al  ways  In  themachind 

5^U/<yt  c3u''vTV  'tfW-  Krw>{>  -to  cfT/orvg/C' 

Write  today  for  the  story  of  the  "Miracle 
of  tiie  Multiplex".  We  will  be  glad  to  send 
it   without   placing  you   under   any   obligation. 

HAMMOND  TYPEWRITER  COMPANY 

558A  East  69th  Street  —  New  York  City 

Inquire  for  our  special  terms  to  professionals. 


Sjp;^  Yfit 


THE  LITTLE  REVjW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF   THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH  THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


In  Memory  of  Robert  Gregory 

by 
WilKam  Butler  Yeats 


THE    LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO   WRITE   THE   OTHERS 


SEPTEMBER,    1918 

In  Memory  of  Robert  Gregory  William  Butler  Yeats 

The  Western   School  Edgar  Jepson 

Four  Poems  T.   S.   Eliot ; 

Ulysses,    Episode   VI.  James   Joyce 

Senility  Sherzvood  Anderson 

Decay  Ben  Hecht 

Books  John  Rodker 

The  Notes  for  "The  Ivory  Tower"  Ezra  Pound  i 

Women  and  Men,  VI.  Ford  Madox  Hueffer 
The  Reader  Critic 

Copyright,    1918,   by  Margaret  Anderson 


MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 

EZRA    POUND,   London  Editor 
JULES   ROMAINS,    French    Editor 

Foreign  office: 
5  Ilolland  Place  Chambers,  London   W.  8. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  12/-  a  year. 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  O.,  New  York.  N.  Y., 

under  the  act  March  3,  187Q. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  SEPTEMBER   1918  No.  5 

IN    MEMORY    OF    ROBERT    GREGORY 

William  Butler  Yeats 

Now  that  we're  almost  settled  in  our  house 
I'll  name  the  friends  that  cannot  sup  with  us 
Beside  a  fire  of  turf  in  th'  ancient  tower. 
And,  having  talked  to  some  late  hour, 
Climb  up  the  narrow  winding  stair  to  bed: 
Discoverers  of  forgotten  truth 
Or  mere  companions  of  my  youth, 
All,  all  are  in  my  thoughts  to-night,  being  dead. 

Always  we'd  have  the  new  friend  meet  the  old 

And  we  are  hurt  if  either  friend  seem  cold. 

And  there  is  salt  to  lengthen  out  the  smart 

In  the  affections  of  our  heart, 

And  quarrels  are  blown  up  upon  that  head; 

But  not  a  friend  that  I  would  bring 

This  night,  can  set  us  quarrelling, 

For  all  that  come  into  my  mind  are  dead. 

Lionel  Johnson  comes  the  first  to  mind, 

That  loved  his  learning  better  than  mankind, 

Though  courteous  to  the  worst;  much  falling  he 

Brooded  upon  sanctity 

Till  all  his  Greek  and  Latin  learning  seemed 

A  long  blast  upon  the  horn  that  brought 

A  little  nearer  to  his  thought 

A  measureless  consummation  that  he  dreamed. 


The     Little     Review 


And  that  enquiring  man  John  Synge  comes  next, 
That,  dying,  chose  the  living  world  for  text 
And  never  could  have  rested  in  the  tomb 
But  that,  long  travelling,  he  had  come 
Towards  nightfall  upon  certain  set  apart 
In  a  most  desolate  stony  place, 
Towards  nightfall  upon  a  race 
Passionate  and  simple  like  his  heart. 

And  then  I  think  of  old  George  Pollexfen 
In  muscular  youth  wellknown  to  Mayo  men 
For  horsemanship  at  meets  or  at  racecourses, 
That  could  have  shown  how  purebred  horses 
And  solid  men,  for  all  their  passion,  live 
But  as  the  outrageous  stars  incline     '- 
By  opposition,  square  and  trine, 
Having  grown  sluggish  and  contemplative. ' 

They  were  my  close  companions  many  a  year, 

A  portion  of  my  mind  and  life,  as  it  were. 

And  now  their  breathless  faces  seem  to  look 

Out  of  some  old  picture-book; 

I  am  accustomed  to  their  lack  of  breath, 

But  not  that  my  dear  friend's  dear  son. 

Our  Sidney  and  our  perfect  man. 

Could  share  in  that  discourtesy  of  death. 

For  all  things  the  delighted  eye  now  sees 
Were  loved  by  him;  the  old  storm-broken  trees 
That  cast  their  shadows  upon  road  and  bridge; 
The  tower  set  on  the  stream's  edge; 
The  ford  where  drinking  cattle  make  a  stir 
Nightly,  and  startled  by  that  sound 
The  water-hen  must  change  her  ground; 
He  might  have  been  your  heartiest  welcomer. 


The    Little    Review 


When  with  the  Galway  foxhounds  he  would  ride 

From  Castle  Taylor  to  the  Roxborough  side 

Or  Eserkelly  plains,  few  kept  his  pace; 

At  Moneen  he  had  leaped  a  place 

So  perilous  that  half  the  astonished  meet 

Had  shut  their  eyes;  and  where  was  it 

He  rode  a  race  without  a  bit? 

And  yet  his  mind  outran  the  horses'  feet. 

We  dreamed  that  a  great  painter  had  been  born 

To  cold  Clare  rock  and  Galway  rock  and  thorn, 

To  that  stern  colour  and  that  delicate  line 

That  are  our  secret  discipline 

Wherein  the  gazing  heart  doubles  her  might. 

Soldier,  scholar,  horseman,  he. 

And  yet  he  had  the  intensity 

To  have  published  all  to  be  a  world's  delight. 

What  other  could  so  well  have  counselled  us 

In  all  lovely  intricacies  of  a  house 

As  he  that  practised  or  that  understood 

All  work  in  metal  or  in  wood 

In  moulded  plaster  or  in  carven  stone? 

Soldier,  scholar,  horseman,  he, 

And  all  he  did  done  perfectly 

As  though  he  had  but  that  one  trade  alone. 

Some  burn  damp  fagots,  others  may  consume 

The  entire  combustible  world  in  one  small  room 

As  though  dried  straw,  and  if  we  turn  about 

The  bare  chimney  is  gone  black  out 

Because  the  work  had  finished  in  that  flare. 

Soldier,  scholar,  horseman,  he. 

As  'twere  all  life's  epitome. 

What  made  us  dream  that  he  could  comb  grey  ha'r? 


The    Little    Review 


I  had  thought,  seeing  how  bitter  is  that  wind 

That  shakes  the  shutter,  to  have  brought  to  mind 

All  those  that  manhood  tried,  or  childhood  loved 

Or  boyish  intellect  approved, 

With  some  appropriate  commentary  on  each, 

Until   imagination   brought 

A  fitter  welcome,  but  a  thought 

Of  that  late  death  took  all  my  heart  for  speech. 

THE    WESTERN    SCHOOL* 
Edgar    Jepson 

IT  IS  uncommonly  convenient  to  know  all  about  a  school  of  poets 
(especially  when  its  seat  is  so  fittingHy  Chicago,  the  typical 
city) ;  to  be  told  plainly  and  firmly  that  its  poets  are  securely  rooted 
in  their  native  soil;  that  their  pwetry  is  so  much  concerned  with 
United  States  life  and  so  much  a  part  of  it  that  it  may  be  said  to 
be  becoming  national;  that  it  is  creating  a  new  direction,  a  new 
idiom,  and  is  going  to  be  a  much  more  fluid  thing  than  English 
critics  have  any  idea  of;  that  it  has  "unique  features";  and  that 
unless  one  realises  the  new,  autochthonic  note  in  United  States 
poetry  to-day,  in  the  most  distinctive  United  States  poetry,  that  is, 
one  realises  nothing  of  the  subtle  impulses  and  forces  that  are  at 
work  to  create  a  new  poetic  environment  for  the  coming  generation; 
that  steel  rails,  journalism,  moving  pictures,  popular  tales  and  songs, 
local  festivals,  world's  fairs,  clamorous  cities  will  force  United  States 
pwets  from  their  long  eastward  gazing,  their  obstinate  preoccupation 
with  the  arts  and  literature  of  feudal  Europe.  They  will  go  West, 
leaving  Europe,  even  new  Europe,  behind.  And  in  tiiat  day  United 
States  art,  United  States  literature,  will  cease  to  be  provincial,  will 
resume  the  continental  habit  which  began  with  Walt  Whitman  and 
Mark  Twain.  At  last  they  will  have  to  follow  the  people,  obey  the 
people's  need  of  them. 

It  is  uncommonly  convenient  also  to  have  the  masters  of  the 
school  stamped  authentic,  by  the  award  of  prizes  for  their  poems,  by 
the  school  itself,  to  know  for  certain  that  Messrs.  Vachel  Lindsay, 
Edgar  Lee  Masters,  and  Robert  Frost  are  the  chief  representatives 
of  the  school,  that  their  work  is  the  fine  flower  of  its  growth.  You 
know  where  you  are. 


ir 


The    Little    Review 


At  the  same  time  it  is  a  trifle  worrying  to  find  that  the  prize 
poem  of  the  chief  master  of  the  school  is  an  Ingoldsby  legend — 
doubtless  the  inspiration  was  unconscious — dealing  with  the  love  of 
a  Chinese  lady  and  brilliant  with  such  jingles  as, 

The  world  was  the -field  of  the  Chinese  man 
And  we  were  the  pride  of  the  sons  of  Han. 
We  copied  deep  books,  and  we  carved  in  jade, 
And  wove  white  silks  in  the  mulberry  shade. 


*  (One  might  hope  that  the  specifications  of  patriotism  no  longer 
included  the  D.  O.  R.  A.  injunction  to  shut  our  ears  and  bury  our 
heads  in  the  sand  whenever  a  foreign  critic  took  the  trouble  to  in- 
spect some  of  our  "art"  or  "literature."  Mr.  Jepson's  article  was,  as 
I  understand  it,  "ordered"  by  a  contemporary,  and  then  rejected  for 
its  lack  of  flattery,  its  lack  of  kow-tow  to  certain  local  celebrities. 
Tlie  aritcle  appears  at  its  original  length  in  the  English  Review;  in 
so  far  as  much  of  the  matter  discussed  must  be  only  too  familiar  to 
the  American  reader,  we  have  requested  a  condensation  of  treatment 
(with  however  no  change  of  view)  and  the  author  has  been  good 
enough  to  comply.  Any  one  who  has  heard  Mr.  Jepson  read  Homer 
or  discourse  on  Catullus  would  recognize  his  fitness  as  a  judge  and 
as  a  respecter  of  poetry.  The  readers  of  the  Little  Review  have,  let 
us  hope,  less  need  than  any  other  section  of  the  American  public  to 
be  told  that  a  certain  sort  of  bad  writing  is  bad  writing,  but  so  long 
as  other  editors,  having  asked  for  criticism  when  they  were  ready 
for  nothing  but  eulogy,  refuse  to  publish  the  criticism,  we  must 
certainly  keep  open  house,  if  only  for  the  national  honour,  and  to 
wear  down,  as  much  as  possible,  the  foreign  belief  in  America's 
mental  timidity.  '       '         , 

Only  a  barbarous  or  religious  nation  will  try  to  suppress  the  ex- 
pression of  views  different  from  those  of  its  ruling  or  paying  major- 
ities. The  minimum  of  possible  liberty  contracted  for  in  our  Declar- 
ation of  Independence  must  include  a  right  to  hold  mental  diver- 
gences from  one's  neighbor,  and  while  such  liberty  is  denied  by  every 
religious  organization,  we  can  still  point  out  (perhaps  uselessly)  that 
the  Church  and  State  in  America  have  as  yet  no  formal  legal  con- 
nection, however  much  religious  taboos  may  have  impinged  upon 
special  legislation.  There  is  perhaps  no  intolerance  like  that  of  a 
"great  public,"  but  one  should  do  one's  best  to  prevent  mass  tyranny 
from  clutching  and  penetrating  the  subjective  processes  of  the  indi- 
vidual,— E.  P. 


The    Little    Review 


The  bulk  of  this  master's  work  however  is  concerned  with 
United  States  life;  is  genuinely  national.  Possibly  he  is  creating  the 
new  diction,  the  new  idiom,  the  greater  fluidity  with  which  the  school 
proposes  to  bless  the  world.  But  for  me,  alas!  the  bulk  of  it  is  just 
verse,  and  rank  bad,  jingling  verse  at  that. 

Art  is  in  the  handling.  It  may  be  that  Mr.  Lindsay  has  the 
true  poetic  visions  of  the  Fireman's  Ball,  or  of  General  Booth's  en- 
tering heaven,  or  of  Simon  Legree;  he  has  failed  hopelessly  in  the 
expression  and  presentation  of  them.  Consider  such  lines  as  "Hurries 
up  the  tooting,"  "In  the  night-alarm  chase," 

And  kettle-drums  rattle 

And  hide  the  Shame 

With  a  swish  and  a  swirk 

In  dead  Love's  name. 
"Lurching  bravos  from  the  ditches  dank,"  "Then  Uncle  Tom 
to  Eva  flew."  Such  lines  raise  no  question  of  art  as  opposed  to  vir- 
tuosity, of  rough  intensity  as  opposed  to  polished  feebleness;  they 
are  just  rank  bad  workmanship,  the  bad  workmanship  of  a  man  who 
has  shirked.  If  Mr-  Lindsay  says  "I  write  for  the  good-hearted 
People  of  the  Great  Pure  Republic;  and  it's  quite  good  enough  for 
them,"  I  have  nothing  to  say.  He  may  be  right.  He  ought  to 
know.  But  if  he  tells  me  that  this  slipshod  stuff  is  poetry,  I  say  that 
it  is  not.  He  has  shirked  the  work  of  hammering  out  his  vision.  He 
can  do  better  when  he  is  not  being  "autochthonic",  as  in  "The  Scis- 
sors-Grinder". It  is  not  for  a  poet  to  do  stunts  but  to  express  him- 
self, his  vision  of  the  world,  each  part  of  it  as  it  comes  to  him,  as 
finely  as  he  can. 

_  With  regard  to  his  "Booker  Washington  Triology,"  I  have  a 
feeling  that  it  is  rather  an  impertinence.  Why  should  a  white  man 
set  out  to  become  the  poetic  mouth-piece  of  the  United  States 
blacks?  These  blacks  have  already  made  the  only  distinctively 
United  St?tes  contributions  to  the  arts— ragtime  and  buck-dancing. 
Surely  it  would  be  well  to  leave  them  to  make  the  distinctively 
United  States  contribution  to  poetry. 

I  have  given  Mr.  Vachel  Lindsay  the  chief  place  because  he  is 
the  acclaimed  leader  of  the  school,  and  because  beside  Mr.  Edgar  Lee 
Masters  he  is  a  veritable  king  of  song. 

The  poem  of  Mr.  Edgar  Lee  Master's  which  received  the  prize 
in  19 1 6  is  entitled  "All  Life  in  a  Life."  It  is  a  modernized  version, 
or  rather  epitome,  of  the  first  gospel.    It  goes  like  this:  — 


The    Little    Review 


He  had  a  rich  man  or  two 

Who  took  up  with  him  aga'nst  the  powerful  frown 

That  looked  him  down- 

For  you'll  always  find  a  rich  man  or  two 

To  take  up  with  anything— 

There  are  those  who  want  to  get  into  society,  or  bring 

Their  riches  to  a  social  recognition. 
These  lines  rhyme  indeed;  but  I  am  quite  unable  to  conceive 
what  they  have  to  do  with  poetry.  They  are  just  bad,  bald,  prosy 
prose.  The  effusion  is  marred  and  marred  by  such  cumbrous  arti- 
ficialities: "His  hair  was  black  as  a  sheep's  wool  that  is  black;"  his 
parents  "threatened  him  with  bolts  and  bars;"  he  passed  "where 
richness  of  living  was  rife." 

Time  makes  amends  usually  for  scandal's  breath, 

Which  touched  him  to  his  earthly  ruination. 

These  clumsinesses  are  doubtless  the  new  diction;  but  what  could  be 
more  painfully  unsimple?  The  stuff  is  wholly  barren  of  rhythm, 
rhythmical  construction,  intensity,  spontaneity,  or  beauty.  I  can 
find  in  it  no  poetic  quality  of  any  kind. 

Mr.  Robert  Frost  is  the  third  master  and  his  prize  poem  "Snow" 
tells  at  an  amazingly  tedious  length  how  Brother  Meserve,  the  head  of 
a  small  sect,  routs  two  neighbors  out  of  their  beds  on  a  stormy  mid- 
night and  talks  to  them  and  they  to  one  another.  This  is  how  the 
best  of  it  goes.    Meserve  speaks: 

That  leaf  there  in  your  open  book!     It  moved 
Just  then,  I  thought.    It's  stood  erect  like  that, 
There  on  the  table,  ever  since  I  came. 
Trying  to  turn  itself  backward  or  forward — 
I've  had  my  eye  on  it  to  make  out  which: 
If  forward,  then  it's  with  a  friend's  impatience — 
You  see  I  know — to  get  you  on  to  things 
It  wants  to  see  how  you  will  take;  if  backward, 
It's  for  regret  for  something  you  have  passed 
And  failed  to  see  the  good  of. 
Here  are  a  fancy — never  mind  the  pathetic  fallacy — and  an 
idea.     Admitting  that  they  are  of  the  stuff  of  poetry,  what  of  their 
presentation?     To  me,  frankly,  it  is  no  more  than  a  maundering 
dribble.    Again  I  find  it  the  work  of  a  man  who  has  shirked  the  la- 
bour of  hammering  out  his  idea  into  its  right  form. 

These  and  the  next  eight  lines  are  the  very  best  of  the  four  hun- 


The    Little    Review 


dred  lines  of  which  the  poem  consists;  and  they  have  exactly  as 
much  to  do  with  poetry  as  they  have  with  rat-catching.  They  are 
wretched  prose-  They  are  in  no  degree  rooted  in  the  soil,  autoch- 
thonous. People  dribble  these  toneless  inanities  all  the  world  over 
in  every  tongue. 

Always  I  find  the  music  of  these  effusions  so  cheap,  or  so  poor; 
and  this  poor  music  is  common  to  the  great  bulk  of  all  the  recent 
United  States  poetry  I  have  read.  I  sometimes  think  that  this  amaz- 
flig  lack  of  a  sense  of  the  beauty  of  words  comes  from  the  mannei 
in  which  the  language  of  the  United  States  is  spoken — that  mon- 
otonous drone,  generally  nasal,  or  that  monotonous  nasal  whine.  I 
am  assured  that  in  some  parts  of  the  United  States  you  may  still  hear 
musical  speech ;  but  I  cannot  believe  that  the  speech  of  any  of  these 
three  masters  is  musically  modulated,  or  indeed  modulated  at  all. 
How  then  should  they  begin  even  to  write  poetry? 

In  truth  the  very  principles  of  the  school  are  wrong.  To  the 
human  spirit  steel  rails,  moving  pictures,  world's  fairs,  and  journalism 
are  irrelevant.  They  serve  none  of  its  uses.  They  are  mere  trades 
appurtenances;  and  with  trade  it  has  nothing  to  do.  Should  there 
ever  come  a  poet  who  finds  them  relevant,  a  part  of  his  vision  of  the 
world,  well  and  good.  If  he  is  a  poet  the  presentation  of  his  vision 
may  be  full  of  steel  rails,  yet  it  will  be  poetry.  To  invite  a  poet  to 
go  West  and  lug  steel  rails  into  his  vision  because  steel  rails  are  of 
the  Middle  West  is  to  ensure  a  full  supply  of  these  tedious  artificial- 
ities to  which  the  school  has  awarded  prizes. 

Again  these  fakements  are  not  securely  rooted  in  their  native 
soil.  Wholly  of  the  surface,  they  are  rooted  in  nothing.  They 
create  no  new  diction,  no  new  idiom.  They  create  nothing.  There 
is  no  new,  autochthonous  note  in  them.  They  are  as  rancid  as 
Ben  Hur.  And  to  plaster  one  generation  with  weariness  is,  to  my 
mind,  no  way  to  create  a  new  poetic  environment  for  the  next. 
Worst  of  all  they  are  so  easy  to  do;  and  I  hold  with  Plato:  .tacTra  ra 
KaXa. 

And  what  is  this  call  to  the  poet  to  follow  the  people  and  obey 
the  people's  need?  What  has  the  fat-headed  ruck  of  the  United  States 
or  any  other  country  to  do  with  poetry?  It  has  no  need  of  it  what- 
ever. 

But  the  queer  and  delightful  thing  is  that  in  the  scores  of  yards 
of  pleasant  verse  and  wamblings  and  yawpings  which  have  been  re- 
cently published  in  the  Great  Pure  Republic  I  have  found  a  poet, 
a  real  poet,  who  possesses  in  the  highest  degree  the  qualities  the  new 


The    Little    Review 


school  demands.  Western-born  of  Eastern  stock,  Mr.  T.  S.  Eliot  is 
United  States  of  the  United  States;  and  his  poetry  is  securely  rooted 
in  its  native  soil;  it  has  a  new  poetic  diction;  it  is  as  autochthonous 
as  Theocritus.  It  is  new  in  form  as  all  genuine  poetry  is  new  in 
form;  it  is  musical  with  a  new  music;  and  that  without  any  strain- 
ing after  newness.  The  form  and  music  are  a  natural  integral  part 
of  the  poets'  amazingly  line  presentation  of  his  vision  of  the  wor;ld. 

Could  anything  be  more  United  States,  more  of  the  soul  of  that 
modern  land  than  "The  Love  Song  of  J.  Alfred  Pruffock"?  It  is  the 
very  wailing  testament  of  that  soul  with  its  cruel  clarity  of  sophisti- 
cated vision,  its  thin,  sophisticated  emotions,  its  sophisticated  appre- 
ciation of  a  beauty,  and  its  sophisticated  yearning  for  a  beauty  it 
cannot  dare  to  make  its  own  and  so,  at  last,  live. 

Never  has  the  shrinking  of  the  modern  spirit  of  life  been  ex- 
, pressed  with  such  exquisiteness,  fullness,  and  truth. 

Consider  again  that  lovely  poem  "La  Figlia  Che  Piange."  It  is 
instinct  with  every  poetic  quality  the  woolly  masters  lack,  with  del- 
icate, beautiful,  intense  emotion,  with  exquisite,  beautiful  music. 
This  is  the  very  fine  flower  of  the  finest  spirit  of  the  United  States. 
It  would  be  idiotic  for  such  a  poet  to  go  West  and  write  for  that 
ploppeyed  yokel  the  Great-hearted  Young  Westerner  on  the  make. 
It  is  hardly  to  be  believed  that  this  lovely  poem  should  have  been 
published  in  Poetry  in  the  year  in  which  the  school  awarded  the  prize 
to  that  lumbering  fakement  "All  Life  In  A  Life." 


10  The    Little    Review 


FOUR    POEMS 

T.  S.  Eliot 
Sweeney    among    the    Nightingales 

c 

Apeneck  Sweeney  spreads  his  knees 
Letting  his  arms  hang  down  to  laugh, 
The  zebra  stripes  along  his  jaw 
Swelling  to  maculate  giraffe. 

The  circles  of  the  stormy  moon 
Slide  westward  to  the  River  Plate, 
Death  and  the  Raven  drift  above 
And  Sweeney  guards  the  horned  gate. 

Gloomy  Orion  and  the  Dog 

Are  veiled;  and  hushed  the  shrunken  seas; 

The  person  in  the  Spanish  cape 

Tries  to  sit  on  Sweeney's  knees 

Slips  and  pulls  the  table  cloth 
Overturns  a  coffee  cup. 
Reorganized  upon  the  floor 
She  yawns  and  draws  a  stocking  up; 

The  silent  man  in  mocha  brown 
Sprawls  at  the  window  sill  and  gapes; 
The  waiter  brings  in  oranges 
Bananas,  figs  and  hot-houses  grapes; 

The  silent  vertebrate  exhales  , 
Contracts  and  concentrates,  withdraws; 
Rachel  nee  Rabinovitch 
Tears  at  the  grapes  with  murderous  paws; 


T  he    Little    Review  ii 

She  and  the  lady  in  the  cape 
Are  suspect,  thought  to  be  in  league; 
Therefore  the  man  with  heavy  eyes 
Declines  the  gambit,  shows  fatigue, 

Leaves  the  room  and  reappears 
Outside  the  window,  leaning  in, 
Branches  of  wistaria 
Circumscribe  a  golden  grin; 

The  host  with  someone  indistinct 
Converses  at  the  door  apart. 
The  nightingales  are  singing  near 
The  Convent  of  the  Sacred  Heart. 

And  sang  within  the  bloody  wood 
When  Agamemnon  cried  aloud, 
And  let  their  liquid  siftings  fall 
To  stain  the  st'ff  dishonoured  shroud. 


Whispers    of    Immortality 

Webster  was  much  possessed  by  death 
And  saw  the  skull  beneath  the  skin; 
And  breastless  creatures  under  ground 
Leaned  backward  with  a  lipless  grin. 

Daffodil  bulbs  instead  of  balls 

Stared  from  the  sockets  of  the  eyes! 

He  knew  that  thought  clings  round  dead  limbs 

Tightening  its  lusts  and  luxuries. 

Donne,  I  suppose,  was  such  another 
Who  found  no  substitute  for  sense 
To  seize  and  clutch  and  penetrate. 
Expert  beyond  experience 


The     Little     Review 


He  knew  the  angu'sh  of  the  marrow 
The  ague  of  the  skeleton; 
No  contact  possible  to  flesh 
Allayed  the  fever  of  the  bone. 

^  ^  :{;  ^ 

^  Grishkin  is  nice;  her  Russian  eye 

Is  underlined  for  emphasis; 
Uncorseted,  her  friendly  bust 
Gives  promise  of  pneumatic  bliss. 

The  couched  Brazilian  jaguar 
Compels  the  scampering  marmoset 
With  subtle  effluence  of  cat; 
Grishkin  has  a  maisonette: 

The  sleek  and  sinuous  jaguar 
Does  not  in  his  arboreal  gloom 
Distil  so  rank  a  feline  smell 
As  Grishk'n  in  a  drawing-room. 

And  even  abstracter  entities 
Circumambulate  her  charm; 
But  our  lot  crawls  between  dry  ribs 
To  keep  its  metaphysics  warm. 

Dans    le    restaurant 

Le  gargon  delabre  qui  n'a  rien  a  faire 

Que  de  se  gratter  les  doigts'et  se  pencher  sur  mon  epaule: 

"Dans  mon  pays,  il  fera  temps  pluvieux, 

Du  vent,  du  grand  soleil,  et  de  la  pluie; 

C'est  ce  qu'on  appelle  le  jour  de  lessive  des  gueux." 
(Bavard,  baveux,  a  la  croupe  arrondie, 
Je  t'.en  prie,  au  moins,  ne  bave  pas  dans  la  soupe). 

"Les  saules  tout  trempes,  et  des  bourgeons  sur  les  ronces 

C'est  la,  dans  une  averse,  qu'on  s'abrite. 

J'avais  sept  ans,  elle  etait  plus  petite. 


The    Little    Review  13 


Elle  etait  toute  mouillce,  je  lui  ai  donne  des  pr'meveres." 
Les  taches  de  son  gilet  montent  au  chiffre  de  trente-huit. 
"Je  la  chatouillais.  pour  la  faire  rire. 
Elle  avait  une  odeiir  fraiche  qui  m'etait  inconnue, — " 

Mais  alors,  vieux  lubrique  — 

"Monsieur,  le  fait  est  dur. 

II  est  venu,  nous  peloter,  un  gros  chien, 

Moi  j 'avals  peur,  je  I'ai  quitte  a  mi-chemin; 

C'est  dommage." 

Mais  alors.  tu  as  ton  vautour. 
Va  t'en  te  decrotter  les  rides  du  visage; 
Tiens,  ma  fourchette.  decrasse-toi  le  crane, 
De  quel  droit  payes-tu  des  experiences  comme  moi? 
Tiens,  voila  dix  sous,  pour  la  salle-de-bains. 

Phlebas,  le  Phenician,  pendant  quinze  jours  noye, 
Oubliait  les  cris  des  mouettes  et  la  houle  de  Cornouaille, 
Et  les  profits  et  les  pertes.  et  la  cargaison  d'etain; 
Un  courant  de  sous-mer  I'emporta  tres  loin, 
Le  repassant  aux  etapes  de  sa  vie  anterieure. 
Figurez-vous  done,  c'etait  un  sort  penible. 
Cependent.  ce  fut  jadis  un  bel  homme,  de  haute  taille. 

Mr.    Eliot's    Sunday   Morning   Service 

"Look,  look  master,  here  comes  two  of  the  religious  caterpillars  .  " 

Jew  oj  Malta. 
Polyphiloprogenitive 
The  sap'ent  sutlers  of  the  Lord 
Drift  across  the  window-panes.  . 

In  the  beginning  was  the  Word.  ^ 

In  the  beginning  was  the  Word, 
Superfetation  of  to  ev 
And  at  the  mensual  turn  of  time 
Produced  enervate  Origen. 


14  The    Little    Review 


A  painter  of  the  Umbrian  school 
Designed  upon  a  gesso  ground 
The  nimbus  of  the  Baptised  God. 
The  wilderness  is  cracked  and  browned 

But  through  the  water  pale  and  thin 
Still  shine  the  unoffending  feet 
And  there  above  the  painter  set 
The  Father  and  the  Paraclete. 


The  sable  presbyters  approach 
The  avenue  of  penitence; 
The  young  are  red  and  pustular 
Clutching  piaculative  pence, 

Under  the  penitential  gates 
Susta'ned  by  staring  Seraphim 
Where  the  souls  of  the  devout 
Burn  invisible  and  dim, 

Along  the  garden-wall  the  bees 
With  hairy  bellies  pass  between 
The  staminate  and  pistilate: 
Blest  office  of  the  epicene. 

Sweeney  shifts  from  ham  to  ham 
Stirring  the  water  in  his  bath. 
The  masters  of  the  subtle  schools 
Are  controversial,  polymath. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  1$ 


ULYSSES 
James    Joyce 
Episode    VI.  / 

MARTIN  CUNNINGHAM,  first,  poked  his  silk  hatted  head  into 
the  creaking  carriage  and,  entering  deftly,  seated  himself. 
Mr.  Power  stepped  in  after  him,  curving  his  height  with  care. 

— Come  on,  Simon. 

— After  you,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

Mr.  Dedalus  covered  himself  quickly  and  got  in,  saying: 

— Yes,  yes. 

—  Are  we  all  here  now?  Martin  Cunningham  asked.  Come 
along.  Bloom. 

Mr.  Bloom  entered  and  sat  in  the  vacant  place.  He  pulled  the 
door  to  after  him  and  slammed  it  tight  till  it  shut  tight.  He  passed 
an  arm  through  the  armstrap  and  looked  seriously  from  the  open 
carriage  window  at  the  lowered  blinds  of  the  avenue.  One  dragged 
aside:  an  old  woman  peeping.  Thanking  her  stars  she  was  passed 
over.  Extraordinary  the  interest  they  take  in  a  corpse.  Job  seems 
to  suit  them.  Huggermugger  in  corners.  Then  getting  it  ready- 
Wash  and  shampoo.  I  believe  they  clip  the  nails  and  the  hair. 
Grow  all  the  same  after. 

All  waited.  Nothing  was  said.  Stowing  in  the  wreaths  prob- 
ably. I  am  sitting  on  something  hard.  Ah,  that  soap  in  my  hip 
pocket.    Better  shift  it  out  of  th-at.    Wait  for  an  opportunity. 

All  waited.  Then  wheels  were  heard  from  in  front,  turning 
then  nearer:  then  horses'  hoofs.  A  jolt.  Their  carriage  began  to 
move,  creaking  and  swaying.  Other  hoofs  and  creaking  wheels 
started  behind.  The  blinds  of  the  avenue  passed  and  number  ten 
with  its  craped  knocker,  door  ajar.    At  walking  pace- 

They  waited  still,  their  knees  jogging,  till  they  had  turned  and 
were  passing  along  the  tramtracks.  Tritonville  road.  Quicker. 
The  Wheels  rattled  rolling  over  the  cobbled  causeway  and  the  crazy 
glasses  shook  rattling  in  the  doorframes. 

— What  way  is  he  taking  us?  Mi.  Power  asked  of  both 
windows. 

— Through  Irishtown,  Martin  Cunningham  said.  Ringsend. 
Brunswick  street. 


i6  The    Little    Review 


Mr.  Dedalus  nodded,  looking  out. 

— That's  a  fine  old  custom,  he  said.  I  am  glad  to  see  it  has  not 
died  out. 

All  watched  awhile  through  their  windows  caps  and  hats  lifted 
by  passers.  Respect.  The  carriage  swerved  from  the  tramtrack  to 
the  smoother  road.  Mr.  Bloom  at  gaze  saw  a  lithe  young  man,  clad 
in  mourning,  a  wide  hat. 

— There's  a  friend  of  yours  gone  by,  Dedalus,  he  said. 

—Who  is  that? 

— Your  son  and  heir. 

— Where  is  he?    Mr.  Dedalus  said,  stretching  over,  across. 

The  carriage  lurched  round  the  corner  and,  swerving  back  to 
the  tramtrack,  rolled  on  noisily  with  chettering  wheels.  Mr.  Dedalus 
fell  back,  saying: 

— Was  that  Mulligan  cad  with  him? 

— No,  Mr.  Bloom  said.    He  was  alone. 

— ^Down  with  his  aunt  Sally,  I  suppose.  Mr.  Dedalus  said,  and 
the  drunken  little  costdrawer  and  Crissie,  papa's  little  lump  of  dung, 
the  wise  child  that  knows  her  own  father. 

Mr.  Bloom  smiled  joylessly  on  Ringsend  road.  Wallace  Bros, 
the  bottleworks.    Dodder  bridge. 

Ritchie  Goulding  and  the  legal  bag  Goulding,  Colles  and  Ward 
he  calls  the  firm.  His  jokes  are  getting  a  bit  damp.  Great  card  he 
was.  Waltzing  in  Stamer  street  with  Ignatius  Gallaher  on  a  Sunday 
morning,  the  landlady's  two  hats  pinned  on  his  head-  Out  on  the 
rampage  all  night.  Beginning  to  tell  on  him  now:  that  backache  of 
his,  I  fear.  Thinks  he'll  cure  it  with  pills.  All  breadcrumbs  they 
are.    About  six  hundred  per  cent  profit. 

— He's  in  with  a  lowdown  crowd,  Mr.  Dedalus  snarled.  That 
Mulligan  is  a  contaminated  bloody  ruffian.  His  name  stinks  all  over 
Dublin.  But  with  the  help  of  God  and  his  blessed  mother  I  am  go- 
ing to  write  a  letter  one  of  those  days  to  his  moliier  or  his  aunt  or 
whatever  she  is  that  will  open  her  eye  as  wide  as  a  gate.  I'll  tickle  his 
catastrophe,  believe  you  me. 

He  cried  above  the  clatter  of  the  wheels. 

— I  won't  have  her  bastard  of  a  nephew  ruin  my  son.  A  coun- 
ter jumper's  son.  Selling  tapes  in  my  cousin,  Peter  Paul  M'Swiney's. 
Not  likely. 

He  ceased.  Mr.  Bloom  glanced  from  his  angry  moustache  to 
Mr-  Power's  mild  face  and  Martin  Cunningham's  eyes  and  beard, 
gravely  shaking.    Noisy  sclfwilled  man.  Full  of  his  son.  He  is  right. 


The    Little    Review  17 

Sometliing  to  hand  on.  If  little  Rudy  had  lived.  See  him  grow  up, 
hear  his  voice  in  the  house.  Walking  beside  Molly.  My  son.  Me  in 
his  eyes.  Strange  feeling  it  would  be.  From  me.  Just  a  chance. 
Must  have  been  that  morning  she  was  at  the  window,  watching  the 
two  dogs  at  it  by  the  wall  of  the  cease  to  do  evil.  And  the  warder  grin 
ning  up.  She  had  that  cream  gown  on  with  the  rip  she  never  stitched. 
Give  us  a  touch,  Poldy-    God,  I'm  dying  for  it.    How  life  begins. 

•  Got  big  then.  Had  to  refuse  the  Greystones  concert.  My  son 
inside  her.  I  could  have  helped  him  on  in  life.  I  could.  Make"him 
independent.    Learn  German  too. 

—Are  v/e  late?    Mr.  Power  asked. 

- — Ten  minutes,  Martin  Cunningham  said,  looking  at  his  watdh. 

Molly.  Milly.  Same  thing  watered  down.  Her  tomboy  oath. 
O  jumping  Jupiter!  Still,  she's  a  dear  girl.  Soon  be  a  woman. 
Mulligan.  Dearest  Papli.  Young  student.  Yes  yes:  a  woman  too. 
Life,  life. 

The  carriage  heeled  over  and  back,  their  four  trunks  swaying.. 

- — Corny  might  have  given  us  a  more  commodious  yoke,  Mr. 
Power  said  . 

— He  might,  Mr.  Dedalus  said,  if  he  hadn't  that  squint  troub- 
ling him.    Do  you  follow  me? 

He  closed  his  left  eye.  Martin  Cunningham  began  to  brush 
away  crustcrumbs  from  under  his  thighs. 

— What  is  this?  he  said,  in  the  name  of  God?    Crumbs? 

— Someone  seems  to  have  been  making  a  picnic  party  here 
lately,  Mr.  Power  said. 

All  raised  their  thighs,  eyed  with  disfavour  the  mildewed  but- 
tonless  leather  of  the  seats.  Mr.  Dedalus,  twisting  his  nose,  frowned 
downward  and  said: 

— Unless  I'm  greatly  mistaken.    AVhat  do  you  think,  Martin? 

— It  struck  me  too,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

Mr.  Bloom  set  his  thigh  down-  Glad  I  took  that  bath.  Feel 
my  feet  quite  clean. 

Mr.  Dedalus  sighed  resignedly. 

— After  all,  he  said,  it's  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world. 

— Did  Tom  Kernan  turn  up?  Martin  Cunningham  asked, 
twirling  the  peak  of  his  beard  gently. 

— Yes,  Mr.  Bloom  answered.  He's  behind  with  Ned  Lambert 
and  Hynes. 

— And  Corny  Kelleher  himself?    Mr.  Power  asked. 

— At  the  cemetery,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 


i8  The    Little     Review 


— I  met  M'Coy  this  morning,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  He  said  he'd  try 
to  come. 

The  carriage  halted  short. 

— What's  wrong?  ,  . 

— We're  stopped. 

— Where  are  we?  . 

Mr-  Bloom  put  his  head  out  of  the  window. 

— The  grand  canal,  he  said. 

Gasworks.  Whooping  cough  they  say  it  cures.  Good  job  Milly 
never  got  it.  Poor  children.  Dioubles  them  up  black  and  blue. 
Shame  really.  Dogs'  home  over  there.  Poor  old  Athos!  Be  good  to 
Athos,  Leopold,  is  my  last  wish.  He  took  it  to  heart,  pined  away. 
Quiet  brute.    Old  men's  dogs  usually  are. 

A  raindrop  spat  on  his  hat.  He  drew  back  and  saw  an  instant 
of  shower  spray  dots  over  the  grey  fiags  .  Apart.  Curious.  Like 
through  a  colander.  I  thought  it  would.  My  boots  were  creaking, 
1  remember  now. 

— The  weather  is  changing,  he  said  quietly. 

— A  pity  it  did  not  keep  up  fine,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

— Wanted  for  the  country,  Mr.  Powers  said.  There's  the  sun 
again  com'ng  out. 

Mr.  Dedalus,  peering  through  his  glasses  towards  the  veiled  sun. 
hurled  a  mute  curse  at  the  sky. 

— It's  as  uncertain  as  a  child's  bottom,  he  said. 

— We're  off  again. 

The  carriage  turned  again  its  stiff  wheels  and  their  trunks 
swayed  gently.  Martin  Cunningham  twirled  more  quickly  the  peak 
of  his  beard. 

— Tom  Kernan  was  immense  last  night,  he  said. 

—0  draw  him  out,  Martin,  Mr.  Power  said  eagerly.  Wait  till 
you  hear  him,  Simon,  on  Ben  Diollard's  singing  of  The  Croppy  Boy. 

■ — Immense,  Martin  Cunningham  said  pompously.  His  singing 
of  that  simple  ballad,  Martin,  is  the  most  trenchant  rendering  I  ever 
heard  in  the  ^whole  course  of  my  experience. 

— Trenchant,  Mr.  Power  said  laughing.  He's  dead  nuts  on 
that-    And  the  retrospective  arrangement. 

— Did  you  read  Dan  Dawson's  speech?  Martin  Cunningham 
asked. 

-^I  did  not  then,  Mr.  Dedalus  said.    Where  is  it? 

—In  the  paper  this  morning. 

Mr.  Bloom  took  the  paper  from  his  inside  pocket.     That  book 


1 


The    Little    Review  19 


I  must  change  for  h^r. 

— No,,  no,  Mr.  Dedalus  said  quickly.  Later  on,  please. 
Mr.  Bloom's  glance  travelled  down  the  edge  paper  scanning  the 
deaths.  Callan,  Coleman,  Dignam,  Fawcett,  Lowry, ,  Naumann, 
Peake,  what  Peake  is  that,  is  it  the  chap  was  in  Crosbie  and  Alfeyne's? 
no,  Sexton.  Urbright.  Inked  characters  fast  fading  on  the  frayed 
breaking  paper.  Thanks  to  the  little  flowers  of  Mary.  Month's 
mind  Quinlan  . 

It  is  noiv  a  month  since  dear  Henry  fled 
To  his  home  up  above  in  the  sky 
While  his  family  weeps  and  mourns  his  loss 
Hoping  some  day  to  meet  him  on  high. 
I  tore  up  the  envelope?    Yes.    Where  did  I  put  her  letter  after 
I  read  it  in  the  bath?     He  patted  his  waistcoat  pocket.     There  all 
right.    Dear  Henry  fled.    Before  my  patience  are  exhausted. 

National  school.  Meade's  yard.  The  hazard.  Only  two  there 
now.  Nodding.  Full  as  a  tick.  Too  much  bone  in  their  skulls.  The 
other  trotting  round  with  a  fare.  An  hour  ago  I  was  passing  there. 
The  jarvies  raised  their  hats. 

A  pointsman's  back  stra'ghtened  itself  upright  suddenly  by  Mr. 
Bloom's  window.  Couldn't  they  invent  something  automatic  so  that 
the  wheel  itself:  much  handier?  Well  but  that  fellow  would  lose  his 
job  then?  Well  but  then  another  fellow  would  get  a  job  making  the 
new  invention? 

Antient  concert  rooms.  Nothing  on  there.  A  man  in  a  buff  suit 
with  a  crape  armlet.  Not  much  grief  there.  People  in  law,  perhaps. 
They  went  past  the  bleak  pulpit  of  saint  Mark's'  under  the 
railway  bridge,  past  the  Queen's  theatre:  in  silence.  Hoardings. 
Eugene  Stratton.  Mrs.  Bandmann  Palmer.  Could  I  go  to  see  Leah 
tonight,  I  A'onder.  Or  the  Lily  of  Killarney?  Wet  bright  bills  for 
next  week.  Fun  on  the  Bristol.  Martin  Cunningham  could  work  a 
pass  for  ,tlie  Gaiety.  Have  to  stand  a  drink  or  two.  As  broad  as 
it's  long. 

He's  coming  in  the  afternoon.  Her  songs. 
Plasto's. 

— How  do  you  do?  Martin  Cunningham  said,  raising  his  palm 
to  his  brow  in  salute- 

— He  doesn't  see  us,  Mr.  Power  said.  Yes  he  does.  How  do 
you  do? 

—Who?    Mr.  Dedalus  asked. 

— Blazes  Boylan,  Mr.  Power  said.    There  he  is  airing  his  quiff. 


20  The    Little    Review 


Just  that  moment  I  was  thinking. 

Mr.  Dedalus  bent  across  to  salute.  From  the  door  of  the  Red 
Bank  the  white  disc  of  a  straw  hat  flashed  reply:  passed. 

Mr.  Bloom  reviewed  the  nails  of  his  left  hand,  then  those  of  his 
right  hand.  The  nails,  yes.  Is  there  anything  more  in  him  than  that 
she  sees?  That  keeps  him  alive.  They  sometimes  feel  what  a 
person  is.  Instinct.  But  a  type  like  that.  My  nails.  I  am  just 
looking  at  them  :  well  pared.  And  after:  thinking  alone.  Body  get- 
ting a  bit  softy.  I  would  notice  that  from  remembering.  What 
causes  that?  I  suppose  the  skin  can't  contract  quickly  enough  when 
the  flesh  falls  off.    But  the  shape  is  there.    The  shape  is  there  still. 

He  clasped  his  hands  between  his  knees  and,  satisfied,  sent  his 
vacant  glance  over  their  faces. 

Mr.  Power  asked: 

— How  is  the  concert  tour  getting  on,  Bloom? 

— 0  very  well,  Mr.  B'loom  said.  I  hear  great  accounts  of  it.  It's 
a  good  idea,  you  see.  .  .  , 

— Are  you  going  yourself? 

— Well  no,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  I  am  not  sure,  that  is.  You  see  the 
idea  is  to  tour  the  chief  towns.  What  you  lose  on  one  you  can  make 
up  the  other. 

— Quite  so,  Martin  Cunninghm  said.    Mary  Anderson  is  up  there 
now.    Have  you  good  artists? 

— Louis  Werner  is  touring  her,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  0  yes,  we  have 
all  top  nobbers.  J.  C.  Doyle  and  John  McCormack  and.  The 
best,  in  fact. 

— And  madame,  Mr.  Power  said,  smiling.    Last  but  not  least.   • 

Mr.  Bloom  unclasped  his  hands  in  a  gesture  of  soft  politeness 
and  clasped  them.  The  carriage  wheeling  by  Smith  O'Brien  stature 
.united  noiselesly  their  unresisting  knees. 

Oot :  a  duUgarbed  old  man  from  the  curbstone  tendered  his  wares, 
his  mouth  opening:  oot. 

— Four  bootlaces  for  a  penny. 

Wonder  why  he  was  struck  off  the  rolls.  Has  that  silk  hat  ever 
since.  Mourning  too.  Terrible  comedown,  poor  wretch!  Relics  of 
old  decency. 

And  madame.  Twenty  past  eleven.  Up.  Mrs.  Fleming  is  in  to 
clean.  Doing  her  hair,  humming:  voglio  e  non  vorrei.  No:  voi;rei  e 
non.  Looking  at  the  tips  of  her  hairs  to  see  if  they  are  split.  Mi 
trema  un  poco  il.  Beautiful  on  that  tre  her  voice  is:  weeping  tone. 
A  thrush.    A  throstle-    There  is  a  word  throstle  that  expresses  that  . 


The    Little    Review  21 


His  eyes  passed  lightly  over  Mr.  Power's  goodlooking  face. 
Greyish  over  the  ears.  Madame:  smiling.  I  smiled  back.  Only  po- 
liteness perhaps.  Nice  fellow.  Who  knows  is  that  true  about  the 
woman  he  keeps?  Not  pleasant  for  the  wife.  Yet  they  say,  who  was 
it  told  me,  there  is  no  ^carnal.  You  would  imagine  that  would  get 
played  out  pretty  quick.  Yes,  it  was  Crofton  met  him  one  evening 
bringing  her  a  pound  of  rumpsteak.  What  is  this  she  was?  Barmaid 
in  Jury's.    Or  the  Moira,  was  it? 

Martin  Cunningham  nudged  Mr.  Power. 

— Of  the  tribe  of  Reuben,  he  said. 

A  tall  blackbearded  figure,  bent  on  a  stick,  stumping  round  the 
corner  of  Elvery's  elephant  house  showed  them  a  curved  hand  open 
on  his  spine. 

— In  all  his  pristine  beauty,  Mr.  Power  said. 

Mr.  Dedal  us  looked  after  the  stumping  figure  and  said  mildly: 

— The  devil  break  the  hasp  of  your  back  ! 

Mr.  Power,  collapsing  in  laughter,  shaded  his  face  from  the 
carriage  window. 

— We  have  all  been  there.  Martin  Cuningham  said  broadly. 

His  eyes  met  Mr.  Bloom's  eyes.    He  caressed  his  beard,  adding 

— Well,  nearly  all  of  us. 

Mr.  Bloom  began  to  speak  with  sudden  eagerness  to  his  com 
panions'  faces. 

—  That's  an  awfully  good  one  that's  going  the  rounds  about 
Reuben  J  and  the  son. 

— About  the  boatman?    Mr.  Power  asked. 

— Yes.    Isn't  it  awfully  good? 

— What  is  that?    Mr.  Dedalus  asked.    I  didn't  hear  it. 

— There  was  a  girl  in  the  case,  Mr.  Bloom  began,  and  he  de- 
termined to  send  him  to  the  isle  of  Man  out  of  harm's  way  but  when 
they  were  both  .  ■  .  .  . 

—What?    Mr.  Dedalus  asked.    That  hobbledehoy  is  it? 

— Yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  They  were  both  on  the  way  to  the  boat 
and  he  tried  to  drown 

—Drown  Barabbas!  Mr.  Dedalus  cried.  I  wish  to  Christ  he 
did! 

Mr.  Power  sent  a  long  laugh  down  his  shaded  nostrils. 

— No,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  the  son  himself  •  .  .  .  . 

Martin  Cunningham  thwarted  his  speech  rudely. 
— Reuben  J  and  the  son  were  piking  it  down  the  quay  next  the 
river  on  their  way  to  the  isle  of  Man  boat  and  the  young  chisell  sud- 


22  The    Little    Review 

denly  got  loose  and  over  the  wall  with  him  into  the  Liffey. 

— For  God' sake!    Mr.' Dedalus  excla-med  in  fright.     Is  he  dead? 

— Dead!  Martin  Cunningham  cried.  Not  he!  A  boatman  got 
a  pole  and  fished  him  out  by  the  slack  of  the  breeches  and  he  was 
landed  up  to  the  father  on  the  quay.    Half  the  town  was  there. 

— Yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said.    But  the  funny  part  is  .  .  . 

— And  Reuben  J,  Martin  Cunningham  said,  gave  the  boatman  a 
florin  for  saving  his  son's  life. 

A  stifled  sigh  came  from  under  Mr.  Power's  hand. 

— O,  he  did,  Martin  Cunningham  affirmed.  Like  a  hero.  A 
silver  florin. 

— Isn't  it  awfully  good?    Mr.  Bloom  said  eagerly. 

— One  and  eightpence  too  much,  Mr.  Dedalus  said  drily. 

Mr.  Power's  choked  laugh  burst  quietly  in  the  carriage. 

Nelson's  pillar.  \ 

— Eight  plums  a  penny.    Eight  for  a  penny. 

— We  had  better  look  a  little  serious,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

Mr.  Dedalus  sighed. 

— Ah  the  indeed,  he  sa'.d,  poor  little  Paddy  wouldn't  grudge  us  a 
laugh.    Many  a  good  one  he  told  himself. 

— The  Lord  forgive  me!  Mr.  Power  said,  wiping  his  wet  eyes 
with  his  fingers.  Poor  Paddy!  I  little  thought  a  week  ago  when  I 
saw  him  last  that  I'd  be  driving  after  him  like  this. 

— As  decent  a  little  man  as  ever  wore  a  hat,  Mr.  Dedalus  said. 
He  went  very  suddenly. 

— Breakdown,  Martin  Cunningham  said.    Heart. 

He  tapped  his  chest  sadly. 

Blazing  face:  redhot. 

Mr.  Power  gazed  at  the  passing  houses  with  rueful  apprehension. 

— He  had  a  sudden  death,  poor  fellow,  he  said. 

— The  best  death,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

Their  wideopen  eyes  looked  at  him. 

— No  suffering,  he  said.    A  moment  and  all  is  ovtr. 

— No -one  ,spoke. 

Horses  with  white  frontlet  plumes  came  round  the  Rotunda  cor- 
ner, galloping.    A  tiny  coffin  flashed  by.    A  mourning  coach. 

— Sad,  Martin  Cunningham  said.    A  child. 

A  dwarf's  face  mauve  and  wrinkled  like  little  Rudy's  was. 
Dwarf's  body,  weak  as  puty,  in  a  whitelined  bo.x.  Meant  nothing. 
Mistake  of  nature. 

— Poor  little  thing,  Mr.  Dedalus  said.    It's  well  out  of  it. 


The    Little    Review  23 

The  carriage  climbed  more  slowly  the  hill  of  Rutland  square. 

— In  the  midst  of  life,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

— But  the  worst  of  all,  Mr.  Power  said,  is  the  suicide. 

Martin  Cunningham  drew  out  his  watch  briskly,  coughed  and 
put  it  back. 

— The  greatest  disgrace  to  have  in  the  family,  Mr.  Power  added. 

—Temporary  insanity,  of  course,  Martin  Cunningham  said  de- 
cisively. We  must  take  a  charitable  view  of  it. 

— They  say  a  man  who  does  it,  is  a  coward,  Mr.  Dedalus  said. 

— ^It  is  not  for  us  to  judge,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

Mr.  Bloom,  about  to  speak,  closed  his  lips  again.  Martin 
Cunningham's  large  eyes.  Looking  away  now.  Sympathetic  human 
man  he  is.  Intelligent.  Like  Shakespeare's  face.  Always  a  good 
word  to  say.  And  that  awful  drunkard  of  a  wife  of  his.  Setting  up 
house  for  her  lime  after  time  and  then  pawning  the  furniture  on  him. 
Wear  out  a  man's  heart.  Lord,  she  must  have  looked  a  sight  that 
night  Dedalus  told  me  he  was  in  there.  Drunk  about  the  place  and 
capering  with  Martin's  umbrella. 

■ — And  they  call  me  the  jewel  of  Asia, 
Of  Asia 
The  geis/ia. 

He  looked  away  from  me.    He  knows. 

That  afternoon  of  the  inquest.  The  redlabelled  bottle  on  the 
table.  The  room  in  the  hotel  with  hunting  pictures.  Stuffy  it  was. 
Sunlight  through  the  slats  of  the  Venetian  blinds.  The  coroner's  ears, 
big  and  hairy.  Boots  giving  evidence.  Thought  he  was  asleep  first. 
Then  saw  like  yellow  streaks  on  his  face.  Verdict:  overdose-  The 
letter.    For  my  son  Leopold. 

No  more  pain.    Wake  no  more. 

The  carriage  rattled  swiftly  along  Berkeley  road. 

— We  are  going  the  pace,  I  think,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

— ^God  grant  he  doesn't  upset  us  on  the  road,  Mr.  Power  said. 

— I  hope  not,  Martin  Cunningham  said.  That  will  be  a  great 
race  tomorrow  in  Germany,    The  Gordon  Bennett. 

— Yes,  by  Jove.  Mr.  Dedalus  said.  That  will  be  worth  seeing, 
faith. 

The  carriage  galloped  round  a  corner:  stopped. 

— What's  wrong  now? 

A  divided  drove  of  cattle  passed  the  windows,  lowing,  slouching 
•by  on  padded  hoofs,  whisking  their  tails  slowly  on  their  clotted 


34  T  he    Little    Review 


bony  croups. 

— Emigrants,  Mr.  Power  said. 

— ^Huuu!  the  drover's  voice  cried,  his  switch  sounding  on  their 
flanks-  Huuu  out  of  that! 

Thursday  of  course.  Springers.  Cuffe  sold  them  about  twenty- 
seven  quid  each.  For  Liverpool  probably.  Roast  beef  for  old  England. 
They  buy  up  all  the  juicy  ones.  And  then  the  fifth  quarter  lost:  all 
that  raw  stuff,  hide,  hair,  horns.  Comes  to  a  big  thing  in  a  year. 
Wonder  if  that  dodge  works  now  getting  dicky  meat  off  the  train 
at  Clonsilla. 

The  carriage  moved  on  through  the  drove. 

— I  can't  make  out  why  the  corporation  doesn't  run  a  tramline 
from  the  parkgate  to  the  quays,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  All  those  animals 
could  be  taken  in  trucks  down  to  the  boats. 

— Instead  of  blocking  up  the  throughfare,  Martin  Cunningham 
said.    Quite  right.    They  ought  to. 

— Yes,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  and  another  thing  I  often  thought  is  to 
have  funeral  trams  like  they  have  in  Milan.  You  know.  Run  the 
line  out  to  the  cemetery  gates  and  have  special  trams,  hearse  and  car- 
riage and  all.    Don't  you  see  what  I  mean? 

—0  that  be  damned  for  a  story,  Mr.  Dedalus  said. 

— A  poor  lookout  for  Corny,  Mr.  Power  added. 

— Wliy?  Mr.  Bloom  asked,  turning  to  Mr.  Dedalus.  Wouldn't 
it  be  more  decent  than  galloping  two  abreast? 

— Well,  there's  something  in  that,  Mr.  Dedalus  granted. 

— And,  Martin  Cunningham  said,  we  wouldn't  have  scenes  like 
that  when  the  hearse  capsized  round  Dunphy's  and  upset  the  coffin 
on  to  the  road. 

— That  was  terrible,  Mr.  Power's  shocked  face  said,  and  the 
corpse  fell  about  the  road.    Terrible! 

— First  round  Dunphy's,  Mr.  Dedalus  said,  nodding. 

— Praises  be  to  God!  Martin  Cunningham  said  piously. 

Bom!  Upset.  A  coffin  bumped  out  on  to  the  road.  Burst  open. 
Paddy  Dignam  shot  out  and  rolling  over  stiff  in  the  dust  in  a  brown 
habit  too  large  for  him.  Red  face:  grey  now.  Mouth  fallen  open. 
Asking  what's  up  now.  Quite  right  to  close  it.  Looks  horrid  open. 
Then  the  insides  decompose  quickly.  Much  better  to  close  up  all  the 
orifices.    Yes,  also.    With  wax.    Seal  up  all. 

— ^Dunphy's,  Mr.  Power  announced  as  the  carriage  turned  right. 

Dunphy's  corner.    Mourning  coaches  drawn  up,  drowning  their 


The    Little    Review  as 


rief.    Tiptop  position  for  a  pub.    Expect  we'll  pull  up  here  on  the 
my  back  to  drink  his  health. 

But  suppose  now  it  did  happen.  Would  he  bleed  if  a  nail  say  cut 
,im  in  the  knocking  about?  He  would  and  he  wouldn't,  I  suppose. 
)epends  on  where.  The  circulation  stops.  Still  some  might  ooze  out 
f  an  artery.    It  would  be  better  to  bury  them  in  red:  a  dark  red. 

In  silence  they  drove  along  Phibsborough  road.  An  empty 
learse  trotted  by,  coming  from  the  cemetery:  looks  relieved. 

Crossguns  bridge:  the  royal  canal. 

Water  rushed  roaring  through  the  sluices.    A  man  stood  on  his 
Iropping  barge  between  clamps  of  turf.    On  the  towpath  by  the  lock 
slacktethered  horse.    Aboard  of  the  Bugabu. 

Their  eyes  watched  him.  On  the  slow  weedy  waterway  he  had 
ioated  on  his  raft  coastward  over  Ireland.  Athlone,  Mullingar  Moy- 
'alley,  I  could  make  a  walking  tour  to  see  Milly  by  the  canal,  come 
IS  a  surprise,  Leixlip,  Clonsilla.  Dropping  down,  lock  by  lock  to 
Dublin.  With  turf  from  the  midland  bogs.  Salute.  He  lifted  his 
)rown  straw  hat,  saluting  Paddy  Dignam. 

They  drove  on.    Near  it  now. 

— I  wonder  how  is  our  friend  Fogarty  getting  on,  Mr.  Power  said. 

—Better  ask  Tom  Kernan,  Mr.  Dedalus  said. 

— How  is  that?    Martin  Cunningham  said.    Left  him  weeping 
suppose. 

The  carriage  steered  left  for  Finglas  road. 

The  stonecutter's  yard  on  the  right.  Last  lap.  Crowded  on  the 
ipit  of  land  silent  shapes  appeared,  white,  sorrowful,  holding  out 
;alm  hands,  knelt  in  grief,  pointing.  Fragments  of  shapes,  hewn.  In 
vhite  silence:  appealing.  Thos  H.  Dennany,  monumental  builder 
md  sculptor. 

Passed. 

Gloomy  gardens  then  went  by,  one  by  one:  gloomy  houses. 

Mr.  Power  pointed. 

— That  is  where  Childs  was  murdered,  he  said.    The  last  house. 

— ^^So  it  is,  Mr.  Dedalus  said.  A  queer  case.  Seymour  Bushe 
;ot  him  off.    Murdered  his  brother.    Or  so  they  said. 

— The  crown  had  no  evidence,  Mr.  Power  said. 

— Only  circumstantial,  Martin  Cunningham  said.  That's  the 
Tiaxim  of  the  law.  Better  for  ninetynine  guilty  to  escape  than  for 
3ne  innocent  person  to  be  wrongfully  condemned. 

They  looked  .  Murderer's  ground.  It  passed  darkly.  Wrong- 
Fully  condemned. 


26  The    Little    Review 

Cramped  in  this  carriage.  She  mightn't  like  me  to  come  that 
way  without  letting  her  know.  Must  be  careful  about  women. 
Fifteen. 

The  high  railings  of  Prospect  rippled  past  their  gaze.  Dark! 
poplars,  rare  white  forms.  Forms  more  frequent,  white  shapes 
thronged  amid  the  trees,  white  forms  and  fragments  streaming  by 
mutely,  sustaining  vain  gestures  on  the  air. 

They   fell   harshly   against   the   curbstone:    stopped.     Martin  i 
Cunningham  put   out  his   arm   and,   wrenching  back   the  handle, 
shoved  the  door  open  with  his  knee.     He  stepped  out.     Mr.  Power 
and  Mr.  Dedalus  followed. 

Change  that  soap  now.  Mr.  Bloom's  hand  unbuttoned  his  hip. 
pocket  swiftly  and  transferred  the  paperstuck  soap  to  his  inner  hand- 
kerchief pocket.  He  stepped  out  of  the  carriage,  replacing  the  news- 
paper his  other  hand  still  held. 

Paltry  funeral:  coach  and  three  carriages.  Beyond  the  hind  car- 
riage a  hawker  stood  by  his  barrow  of  cakes  and  fruit.  Simnel  cakes 
those  are,  stuck  together:  cakes  for  the  dead.  Who  ate  them? 
Mourners  coming  out- 
He  followed  his  companions.  Mr.  Kernan  and  Ned  Lambert  fol- 
lowed, Hynes  walking  after  them.  Corny  Kelleher  stood  by  the 
opened  hearse  and  took  out  the  two  wreaths.  He  handed  one  to  the 
boy. 

Where  is  that  child's  funeral  disappeared  to? 

Coffin  now.  Got  here  before  us,  dead  as  he  is.  Horse  looking 
round  at  it  with  his  plume  skeowways.  Dull  eye:  collar  tight  on  his 
neck,  pressing  on  a  bloodvessel  or  something.  Do  they  know  what  they 
cart  out  here  every  day.  Must  be  twenty  or  thirty  funerals  every* 
day.  Then  Mount  Jerome  for  the  prostestants.  Funerals  all  over 
the  world  every  where  every  minute.  Shovelling  them  under  by  the 
thousand  doublequick.    Too  many  in  the  world. 

Mourners  came  out  through  the  gates:  woman  and  girl.  Lean- 
jawed  harpy,  hard  woman  at  a  bargain,  her  bonnet  awry.  Girl's  face 
stained  with  dirt  and  tears,  holding  the  woman's  arm  looking  up  at 
her  for  a  sign  to  cry.    Fish's  face,  bloodless  and  livid. 

The  mutes  shouldered  the  coffin  and  bore  it  in  through  the  gates. 
First  the  stiff:  then  the  friends  of  the  stiff.  Corny  Kelleher  and  the 
boy  followed  with  their  wreaths.  Who  is  that  beside  them?  Ah,  the 
brother-in-law. 

All  walked  after. 


I 


The    Little    Review  27 

Martin  Cunningham  whispered: 

— You  made  it  damned  awkward  talking,  of  suicide  before  Bloom. 

—Did  I?    Mr.  Power  whispered.    How  so? 

— His  father  poisoned  himself,  Martin  Cunningham  said.  Had 
the  Queen's  hotetl  in  Ennis. 

— O  God!  Mr.  Power  said.  First.  I  heard  of  it.  Poisoned 
himself! 

He  glanced  behind  him  to  where  a  face  with  dark  thinking  eyes 
followed.    Speaking. 

— Was  he  insured?    Mr-  Bloom  asked. 

— I  believe  so,  Mr.  Kernan  answered,  but  the  policy  was  heavily 
mortgaged.    Martin  is  trying  to  get  the  boy  into  Artane. 

— How  many  children  did  he  leave? 

— ^Five.  Ned  Lambert  says  he'll  try  to  get  one  of  the  girls 
into  Todd's. 

— A  sad  case,  Mr.  Bloom  said  gently.    Five  young  children. 

— A  great  blow  to  the  poor  wife,  Mr.  Kernan  added. 

■ — Indeed  yes,  Mr.  Bloom  agreed. 

Has  the  laugh  at  him  now. 

He  looked  down  at  the  boots  he  had  blacked  and  polished. 
She  had  outlived  him.  One  must  outlive  the  other.  She  would  marry 
another.  Him?  No.  Yet  who  kriows  after?  One  must  go  first: 
alone,  under  the  ground:  and  lie  no  more  in  her  warm  bed- 

— How  are  you,  Simon?  Ned  Lambert  said,  shaking  hands. 
Haven't  seen  you  for  a  month  of  Sundays. 

— Can't  complain.    How  are  all  in  Cork's  own  town? 

— I  was  there  for  the  races,  Ned  Lambert  said.  Same  old  six 
and  eightpence.    Stopped  with  Dick  Tivy. 

— And  how  is  Dick,  the  solid  man? 

— Nothing  between  himself  and  heaven,  Ned  Lambert  answered. 

— For  God'  sake — !     Mr.  Dedalus  said.    Dick  Tivy  bald? 

— Martin  is  going  to  get  up  a  whip  for  the  youngsters.  Ned 
Lambert  said,  pointing  ahead.  A  few  bob  a  skull.  Just  to  keep  them 
going  till  the  insurance  is  cleared  up. 

— Yes,  yes,  Mr.  Dedalus  said  dubiously.  Is  that  the  eldest  boy 
in  front? 

— Yes,  Ned  Lambert  said,  with  the  wife's  brother.  John  Henry 
Menton  is  behind.    He  put  down  his  name  for  a  quid. 

— I'll  engage  he  did,  Mr-  Diedalus  said.  I  often  told  poor  Paddy 
he  ought  to  mind  that  job.    John  Henry  is  not  the  worst  in  the  world. 


The     Little     Review 


— How  did  he  lose  it?    Ned  Lambert  asked.    Liquor,  what? 

: — Many  a  good  man's  fault,  Mr.  Dedalus  said  with  a  sigh. 

They  halted  about  the  door  of  the  mortuary  chapel.  Mr.  Bloom 
stood  behind  the  boy  with  the  wreath,  looking  down  at  his  sleek- 
combed  hair  and  at  the  slender  furrowed  neck  ins'de  his  brandnew 
collar.  Poor  boy!  Was  he  there  when  the  father?  Would  he  un- 
derstand? The  mutes  bore  the  coffin  int,o  the  chapel.  Which  end 
is  his  head? 

After  a  moment  he  followed  the  others  in,  blinking  in  the  screened 
light.  The  coffin  lay  on  its  bier  before  the  chancel,  four  tall  yellow 
candles  at  its  corners.  Always  in  front  of  us.  Corny  Kelleher,  laying 
a  wreath  at  each  fore  corner,  beckoned  to  the  boy  to  kneel.  The 
mourners  knelt  here  and  there  in  prayingdesks.  Mr.  Bloom  stood 
behind  near  the  font  and,  when  all  had  knelt,  dropped  carefully  h"s 
unfolded  newspaper  from  his  pocket  and  knelt  his  right  knee  upon  it- 
He  fitted  his  black  hat  gently  on  his  left  knee  and,  holding  its  brim, 
bent  over  piously. 

A  server,  bearing  a  brass  bucket  with  something  in  it,  came  out 
through  a  door.  The  whitesmocked  priest  came  after  him  tidying  his 
stole  with  one  hand,  balancing  with  the  "other  a  little  book  against  his 
toad's  belly. 

They  halted  by  the  bier  and  the  priest  began  to  read  out  of  his 
book  with  a  fluent  croak. 

Father  Coffey.  I  knew  his  name  was  like  a  coffin.  Domine- 
namine.  Bully  about  the  muzzle  he  looks.  Bosses  the  show.  Woe 
betide  anyone  that  looks  crooked  at  him:  priest.  Burst  sideways  like 
a  sheep  in  clover,  Dedalus  says  he  will.  Most  amusing  expressions 
that  man  finds.  Hhhn:  burst  sideways. 

— Non  intres  in  judicium  cum  servo  tuo,  Domine. 

Makes  them  feel  more  important  to  be  prayed  over  in  Latin. 
Chilly  place  this.  Want  to  feed  well,  sitting  in  there  all  the  morning 
in  the  gloom  kicking  his  heels  waiting  for  the  next  one.  Eyes  of  a 
toad  too.  What  swells  him  up  that  way?  Molly  gets  swelled  after 
cabbage.  Air  of  the  place  maybe.  Looks  full  up  of  bad  gas.  Must 
be  a  lot  of  bad  gas  round  the  place.  Butchers  for  instance:  they  get 
like  raw  beefsteaks.  Who  was  telling  me?  Mervyn  Brown.  Down 
in  the  vaults  of  saint  Werburgh's  lovely  old  organ  hundred  and  fifty 
they  have  to  bore  a  hole  in  the  coffins  sometimes  to  let  out  the  bad 
gas  and  burn  it.  Out  it  rushes:  blue.  One  whiff  of  that  and  you're 
a  doner. 


The    Little    Review 


29 


IVIy  kneecap  is  hurting  me.    Ow.    That's  better. 

The  priest  took  a  stick  with  a  knob  at  the  end  of  it  out  of  the 
boy's  bucket  and  shook  it  over  the  coffin.  Then  he  walked  to  the 
other  end  and  shook  it  again.  Then  he  came  hack  and  put  it  back 
in  the  bucket.  As  you  were  before  you  rested-  It's  all  written  down: 
he  has  to  do  it. 

— Et  ne  nos  inducas  in  tentationem. 

The  server  piped  the  answers  in  the  treble.  I  often  thought  it 
would  be  better  to  have  boy  servants.  Up  to  fifteen  or  so.  After 
that  of  course.  .  .  . 

Holy  water  that  was,  I  expect.  Shaking  sleep  out  of  it.  He  must 
be  fed  up  with  that  job,  shaking  that  thing  over  all  the  corpses  they 
trot  up.  What  harm  if  he  could  see  what  he  shaking  it  over.  Every 
mortal  day  a  fresh  batch:  middleaged  men,  old  women,  children, 
women  dead  in  childbirth,  men  with  beards,  baldheaded  business 
men,  consumptive  girls'  with  little  sparrows'  breasts.  All  the  year 
round  he  prayed  the  same  thing  over  them  all  and  shook  water  on 
top  of  them:  sleep-    On  Dignam  now. 

— In  paradisum. 

Said  he  was  going  to  paradise  or  is  in  paradise.  Says  that  over 
everybody.    Tiresome  kind  of  a  job.    But  he  has  to  say  something. 

The  priest  closed  his  book  and  went  off,  followed  by  the  server. 
Corny  Kelleher  opened  the  sidedoors  and  the  gravediggers  came  in, 
hoisted  the  coffin  again,  carried  it  out  and  shoved  it  on  their  cart. 
Corny  Kelleher  gave  one  wreath  to  the  boy  and  to  the  brother-in-law. 
All  followed  them  out  of  the  sidedoor  into  the  mild  grey  air.  Mr. 
Bloom  came  last,  folding  his  paper  again  into  his  pocket.  He  gazed 
gravely  at  the  ground  till  the  coffincart  wheeled  off  to  the  left.  The 
metal  wheels  ground  the  gravel  with  a  sharp  grating  cry  and  the  pack 
of  blunt  boots  followed  the  barrow  along  a  lane  of  sepulchres. 

The  ree  the  ra  the  ree  the  ra  the  roo.    Lord,  I  musn't  lilt  here. 

— The  O'Connell  circle,  Mr.  Dedalus  said  about  him. 

Mr.  Power's  soft  eyes  went  up  to  the  apex  of  the  lofty  cone- 

^He's  at  rest,  he  said,  ,in  the  middle  of  his  people,  old  Dan  0'. 
But  his  heart  is  buried  in  Rome.  How  many  broken  hearts  are 
buried  here,  Simon! 

^Her  grave  is  over  there,  Jack,  Mr.  Dedalus  said.  I'll  soon  be 
stretched  beside  her.    Let  him  take  me  whenever  He  likes. 

He  began  to  weep  to  himself  quietly,  stumbling  a  little  in  his 
walk.    Mr.  Power  took  his  arm. 


30  T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Review 

— She's  better  where  she  is,  he  said  kindly 

— I  suppose  so,  Mr.  Dedalus  said  with  a  weak  gasp.  I  suppose 
she  is  in  heaven  if  there  is  a  heaven. 

Corny  Kelleher  stepped  aside  from  his  rank  and  allowed  the 
mourners  to  plod  by. 

— Sad  occasions,  Mr.  Kernan  began  politely. 

- — They  are,  indeed,  Mr.  Bloom  said- 

- — The  others  are  putting  on  their  hats,  Mr.  Kernan  said.  I 
suppose  we  can  do  so  too.  We  are  the  last.  This  cemetery  is  a 
treacherous  place. 

They  covered  their  heads. 

— The  reverend  gentleman  read  the  service  too  quickly,  don't  you 
think?    Mr.  Kernan  said  with  reproof. 

Mr.  Bloom  nodded  gravely,  looking  in  the  quick  bloodshot  eyes. 
Secret  eyes,  secret  searching  eyes.  Mason,  I  think:  not  sure.  Beside 
him  again.    We  are  the  last.    In  the  same  boat-  ' 

Hope  he'll  say  something  else.  • 

Mr.  Kernan  added: 

— The  service  of  the  Irish  church,  used  in  Mount  Jerome,  is 
simpler,  more  impressive,  I  must  say. 

Mr.  Bloom  gave  prudent  assent.  The  language  of  couse  was 
different. 

Mr.  Kernan  said  with  solemnity: 

■ — I  am  the  resurrecton  and  the  life.  That  touches  a  man's 
inmost  heart. 

— It  does,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

Your  heart  perhaps  but  what  price  the  fellow  in  the  six  feet  by 
two?  No  touching  that.  A  pump  after  all,  pumping  thousands  of 
gaWons  of  blood  every  day.  One  fine  day  it  gets  bunged  up  and  there 
you  are.  Lots  of  them  lying  around  here:  lungs,  hearts,  livers.  Old 
rusty  pumps:  damn  the  thing  else.  The  resurrection  and  the  life.  Once 
you  are  dead  you  are  dead.  That  last  day  idea.  Knocking  them  all 
up  out  of  their  graves.  .Get  up!  Last  day!  Then  every  fellow 
mousing  around  for  his  liver  and  his  lights  and  the  rest  of  his  traps. 
Find  damn  all  of  himself  that  morning.  Pennyweight  of  powder  in 
a  skull.    Twelve  grammes  one  pennyweight. 

Corny  Kelleher  fell  into  step  at  their  side. 

— Everything  went  off  A  i,  he  said.    What? 

He  looked  on  them  from  his  drawling  eye.  Policeman's  shoul- 
ders. 


The    Little     Review  31 

— As  it  should  be,  Mr.  Kernan  said. 
—What?    Eh?    Corny  Kelleher  said. 

Mr.  Kernan  assured  him- 

— Who  is  that  chap  behind  with  Tom  Kernan?     John  Henry 
Menton  asked,  I  know  his  face. 
Ned  Lambert  glanced  back. 

■ — Bloom,  he  said.  Madam  Marion  Tweedy  that  was.  the  so- 
prano.    She's  his  wife. 

— O,  to  be  sure,  John  Henry  Menton  said.  I  haven't  seen  her 
for  some  time.  She  was  a  fine  looking  woman.  I  danced  with  her 
— wait — fifteen  seventeen  golden  years  ago  at  Mat  Dillon's  in  Round- 
town.    And  a  good  armful  she  was. 

He  looked  behind  through  the  others. 

— What  is  he?  he  asked.  What  does  he  do?  Wasn't  he  in  the 
stationery  line?  I  fell  foul  of  him  one  evening,  I  remember,  at 
bowls. 

Ned  Lambert  smiled. 

— Yes,  he  was.  he  said,  in  Wisdom  Hely's-  A  traveller  for  blot- 
ting paper. 

— In  God's  name,  John  Henry  Menton  said,  what  did  she  marry 
a  coon  like  that  for?    She  had  plenty  of  game  in  her  then. 

— Has  still,  Ned  Lambert  said.  He  does  some  canvassing 
for  ads. 

John  Henry  Menton 's  large  eyes  stared  ahead. 

The  barrow  turned  into  a  side  lane.  A  portly  man  ambushed 
among  the  grasses,  raised  his  hat  in  homage.  The  gravediggers 
touched  their  caps. 

— John  O'Connell,  Mr.  Power  said,  pleased.  He  never  forgets 
a  friend.  Mr.  O'Connell  shook  all  their  hands  in  silence.  Mr. 
Dedalus  said: 

— I  am  come  to  pay  you  another  visit. 
— My  dear  Simon,  the  caretaker  answered  in  a  low  voice.    I  don't 
want  your  custom  at  all- 
Saluting  Ned  Lambert  and  John  Henry  Menton  he  walked  on 
at  Martin  Cunningham's  side,  puzzling  two  long  keys  at  his  back. 

^Did  you  hear  that  one,  he  asked  them,  about  Mulcahy  from 
the  Coombe? 

— I  did  not,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

They  bent  their  silk  hats  in  concert  and  Hynes  inclined  his  ear. 
The  caretaker  hung  his  thumbs  in  the  loops  of  his  gold  Avatchchain 


32  The    Little    Review 


and  spoke  in  a  discreet  tone  to  one  to  their  vacant  smiles. 

— They  tell  the  story,  he  said,  that  two  drunks  came  out  here  one 
foggy  evening  to  look  for  the  grave  of  a  friend  of  theirs.  They 
asked  for  Mulcahy  from  the  Coombe  and  wer^  told  where  he  was 
buried.  After  traipsing  about  in  the  fog  they  found  the  grave  sure 
enough.  One  of  the  drunks  spelt  out  the  name:  Terence  Mulcahy. 
The  other  drunk  was  blinking  up  at  a  statue  of  our  Saviour  the  widow 
had  got  put  up. 

The  caretaker  blinked  up  at  one  of  the  sepulchres  they  passed. 
He  resumed: 

—And  after  blinking  up  at  it.    Not  a  bloody  bit  like  the  man,  says 
he.    That's  not  Mulcahy,  says  he,  whoever  done  it. 

Rewarded  by  smiles  he  fell  back  and  spoke  widi  Corny  Kelleher, 
accepting  the  dockets  given  him,  turning  them  over  and  scanning 
them  as  he  walked. 

—  That's  all  done  with  a  purpose,  Martin  Cunningham  ex- 
plained to  Hynes. 

— I  know,  Hynes  said,  I  know  that. 

— To  cheer  a  fellow  up,  Martin  Cunningham  said.  It's  pure 
goodheartedness:  nothing  else. 

Mr.  Bloom  admired  the  caretaker's  properous  bulk.  Keys:  like 
Keyes's  ad:  no  fear  of  anyone  getting  out.  I  must  see  about  that 
ad  after  the  funeral.  Be  the  better  of  a  shave.  Grey  sprouting 
beard.  That's  the  first  sign  when  the  hairs  come  out  grey.  Fancy 
being  his  wife.  Wonder  how  he  had  the  gumption  to  propose  to  any 
girl.  Come  out  and  live  in  the  graveyard.  Night  here  with  all  the 
dead  stretched  about.  The  shadows  of  the  tombs  and  Daniel  O'Con- 
nell  must  be  a  descendant  I  suppose  who  is  this  used  to  say  he  was  a 
queer  breedy  man  great  catholic  all  the  same  like  a  big  giant  in  the 
dark.  Want  to  keep  her  mind  off  it  to  conceive  at  all.  Women 
especially  are  so  touchy. 

He  has  seen  a  fair  share  go  under  in  his  time,  lying  around  him 
fidd  after  field.  Holy  fields.  All  honeycombed  the  ground  must  be: 
oblong  cells.  And  very  neat  he  keeps  it  too,  trim  grass  and  edgings, 
His  garden  Major  Gamble  calls  Mount  Jerome.  Well  so  it  is-  Oughi 
to  be  flowers  of  sleep.  Chinese  cemeteries  with  giant  poppies  growing 
produce  the  best  opium,  Mastiansky  told  me. 

I  daresay  the  soil  would  be  quite  fat  with  corpsemanure.  bones 
flesh,  nails.  Dreadful.  Turning  green  and  pink,  decomposing.  Ther 
ft  kind  of  a  tallowy  kind  of  a  cheesy.     Then  begin  to  get  blaclf 


The    Little    Review  33 

treacle  oozing  out  of  them.  Then  dried  up.  Of  course  the  cells  or 
whatever  they  are  go  on  living.  Changing  about.  Live  for  ever 
practically. 

But  they  must  breed  a  devil  of  a  lot  of  maggots.  Soil  must  be 
simply  swirling  with  them.  Your  head  it' simply  sivurls.  Your  head 
it  simply  swurls.  He  looks  cheerful  enough  over  it.  Gives  him  a 
sense  of  power  seeing  all  the  others  go  under  first-  Wonder  how  he 
looks  at  life.  Cracking  his  jokes  too:  warms  the  cockles  of  his  heart. 
Keep  out  the  damp.  Hard  to  imagine  his  funeral.  Seems  a  sort  of 
a  joke. 

— How  many  have  you  for  tomorrow?  the  caretaker  asked. 
— Two,  Corny  Kelleher  said.    Half  ten  and  eleven. 

The  caretaker  put  the  papers  in  his  pocket.  The  barrow  had 
ceased  to  trundle.  The  mourners  split  and  moved  to  each  side  of  the 
hole,  stepping  with  care  round  the  graves.  The  gravediggers  bore 
the  coffin  and  set  its  nose  on  the  brink,  looping  the  bands  round  it. 

Burying  him.  We  come  to  bury  Caesar.  He  doesn't  know  who 
is  here. 

Now  who  is  that  lanky  looking  galoot,  over  there  in  the  mackin- 
tosh? Now  who  is  he  I'd  like  to  know?  Now,  I'd  give  a  trifle  to 
know  who  he  is.  Always  someone  turns  up  you  never  dreamt  of.  A 
fellow  could  live  on  his  lonesome  all  his  life.  Yes,  he  could.  Still 
he'd  have  to  get  someone  to  sod  him  after  he  died  .  Say  Robinson 
Crusoe  was  true  to  life.    Well  then  Friday  buried  him. 

How  could  you  possibly  do  so? 
O  poor  Robinson  Crusoe 

Poor  Dignam!  His  last  lie  on  the  earth  in  his  box.  When  you 
think  of  them  all  it  does  seem  a  waste  of  wood.  All  gnawed  through. 
They  could  invent  a  handsome  bier  with  a  kind  of  panel  sliding,  let 
it  down  that  way.  Ay  but  they  might  object  to  be  buried  out  of  an- 
other fellow's.  I  see  what  it  means.  I  see.  To  protect  him  as  long  as 
possible  even  in  the' earth. 

Mr.  Bloom  stood  far  back,  his  hat  in  his  hand,  counting  the 
bared  heads.  Twelve.  I'm  thirteen.  No.  The  chap  in  the  mackin- 
tosh is  thirteen.  Where  the  deuce  did  he  pop  out  of?  He  wasn't  in 
the  chapel,  that  I'll  swear.    Silly  superstition  that  about  thirteen. 

Nice  soft  tweed  Ned  Lambert  has  in  that  suit.  Tinge  of  purple. 
T  had  one  like  that  when  we  lived  in  Lombard  street  west.  Dressy 
fellow  he  was  once.    Used  to  change  three  suits  in  the  day.    Hello. 


34  The     Little     Review 

It's  dyed.    His  wife,  I  forgot  he's  not  married,  or  his  landlady  ought 
to  have  picked  out  those  threads  for  him. 

The  coffin  dived  out  0/  sight,  easied  down  by  the  men  straddled 
on  the  grave  trestles.  They  struggled  up  and  out:  and  all 
uncovered.    Twenty. 

Pause. 

If  we  were  all  suddenly  somebody  else. 

Gentle  sweet  air  blew  round  the  bared  heads  in  a  whisper. 
Whisper.  The  boy  by  the  gravehead  held  his  wreath  with  both  hands 
staring  quietly  in  the  black  open  space.  Mr.  Bloom  moved  behind 
the  portly  kindly  caretaker.  Wellcut  frockcoat.  We^'ghing  them 
up  perhaps  to  see  which  will  go  next.  Well  it  is  a  long  rest.  Feel 
no  more.  It's  the  moment  you  feel.  Must  be  damned  unpleasant. 
Can't  believe  it  at  first.  Mistake  must  be:  someone  else.  People 
talk  about  you  a  bit:  forget  you.  Then  they  follow:  dropping  into 
a  hole  one  after  the  other. 

We  are  praying  now  for  the  repose  of  his  soul. 

Does  he  ever  think  of  the  hole  waiting  for  h'mself?  They 
say  you  do  when  you  shiver  in  the  sun.  Someone  walking  over  it. 
Mine  over  there  towards  Findglas,  the  plot  I  bought.  Mamma,  poor 
mamma,  and  little  Rudy. 

The  gravediggers  took  up  their  spades  and  flung  heavyclods  of 
clay  in  on  the  coffin.  Mr.  Bloom  turned  his  face.  And  if  he  was 
alive  all  the  time?  Whew!  By  Jingo,  that  would  be  awful!  No, 
no:  he  is  dead,  of  course.  Of  course  he  is  dead.  Monday  he  died. 
Three  days.  Rather  long  to  keep  them  in  the  summer.  Just  as 
well  to  get  shut  of  them  as  soon  as  you  are  sure  there's  no. 

The  clay  fell  softer.     Begin   to  be  forgotten.     Out  of  sight. 

The  caretaker  moved  away  a  few  paces  and  put  on  his  hat. 
The  mourners  took  heart  of  grace,  one  by  one,  covering  themselves 
without  show.  Mr.  Bloom  put  on  his  hat  and  saw  the  portly  figure 
make  its  way  deftly  through  the  maze  of  graves.  Quietly,  sure 
of  his  ground,  he  traversed  the  dismal  fields. 

Hynes  jotting  down  something  in  his  notebook.  Ah,  the 
names.    But  he  knows  them  all.    No:  coming  to  me. 

— I  am  just  taking  the  names,  Hynes  said  below  his  breath. 
What  is  your  christian  name?     I'm  not  sure. 

— L,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  Leopold.  And  you  might  put  down 
M'Coy's  name  too.     He  asked  me  to. 

— Charley,  Hynes  said  writing.  T  know.  He  was  on  the  Free- 
man once. 


The    Little    Review  ,^ 


Thof  r\      °/  ^^^  '''"•    Levanted  with  the  cash  of  a  few  ads 

That  was  why  he  asked  me  to.  0  well,  does  no  harm.  I  saw  to  tha  ' 
M€oy.  1  hanks,  old  chap:  mtich  obliged.  Leave  him  unde  an 
obligation:  costs  nothing.  ^^  ^" 

—And  tell  us.  Hynes  said,  do  you  know  that  fellow  in  the   fel- 
low was  over  there  in  the.  ...  '       . 
He  looked  around. 

now?"*^^*'"'""'''    ^"^  "  '™  ''™'  ^'-  ^^°°^  ^^■'l-    Where  is  he 

Is  .haTw^na'™^'''  "^""  "'"'  "*''""'^-    ^  ''°"''  k"-  "»o  he  is. 

He  moved  away,  looking  about  him 

w T  f    iwi,      7^  Where  has  he  disappeared  to?     Not  a  sicn 

\\  ell  of  all  the.    Good  Lord,  what  became  of  himP  ^ 

idle  spadf"*^  g^avedigger  came  beside  Mr.  Bloom  to  take  up  an 
O.  excuse  me. 
^  He  stepped  aside  nimbly. 
Clay,  brown,   damp,   began  to  be  seen  in  the  hole      It  ro^e 
Nearly  over.     A  mound  of  damp  clods  rose  more    rose    and  the 

S^tf'^hrf '  ''"^  ???"•     ^l  ""— ^  agarior  a  few 
mstants.    The  boy  propped  his  wreatli  against  a  corner-  the  broth 

^^^^l^Z^  '""P.     ^''^  ^--diggers  put  on  the'ir  c  ps  and 
carried  their  earthy  spades  towards  the  barrow.     Then  knocked  \C 
blades  lightly  on  the  turf:  clean.     One  bent  to  pluck  from  the  hef 
coffinV"^  'Vhe'l     tf '"'^  ''  *^  gravehead'anotherconed  th 
m  h"  free  hancT  Thl°      '"""  '^'  '"c  "^"^  "^^^^  P'^^^^  ^^^^^thing 
it^l^rV^^:"^-  ^-^'---"ble.   Headshake' 

.^^  -Let  us  go  round  by  the  chief's  grave,  Hynes  said.    We  have 
—Let  us.  Mr.  Power  said 

.we  Mr%r;r,ii';o"S\;:":"'"'' ''"' '""'  *™""^'^  ^'^^ 

•     Hynes  shook  his  head.  ' 


36 


The    Little    Review 


— Parnell  will  never  come  again,  he  said. 

Mr  Bloom  walked  unheeded  along  his  grove.  Who  passed 
away  Who  departed  this  life.  As  if  they  did  it  of  their  own  ac- 
cord Got  the  shove,  all  of  them.  Rusty  wreaths  hungs  on  knobs, 
garlands  of  bronzefoil.  Better  value  that  for  the  money.  Still,  the 
flowes  are  more  poetical.  The  other  gets  rather  tiresome,  never 
withering.     Expresses  nothing. 

A  bird  sat  tamely  perched  on  a  poplar  branch.  Like  stutted. 
Like  the  wedding  present  alderman  Hooper  gave  us.  Hu!  Not 
a  budge  out  of  him.    Knows  there  are  no  catapults  to  let  fly  at  him 

The  sacred  Heart  that  is:  showing  it.    Red  it  should  be  paint- 
ed like  a  real  heart.    Would  birds  come  then  and  peck  like  the  boj 
with  the  basket  of  fruit  but  he  said  no  because  they  ought  to  havd 
been  afraid  of  the  boy.    Apollo  that  was.  ,  ^  ^,. 

How  many  .  All  these  here  once  walked  round  Dublin. 

Besides  how  could  you  remember  everybody?  Eyes  walk 
voice  Well,  the  voice,  yes:  gramopohne.  Have  a  gramophone  i 
every  grave  or  keep  it  in  the  house.  Remind  you  of  the  voice  like  th 
photograph  reminds  you  of  the  face.  Otherwise  you  couldii/  i< 
member  the  face  after  fifteen  years,  say.  For  instance  who?  i^i 
instance  some  fellow  that  died  when  I  was  in  Wisdom  Hely  s. 

Ssld'     A  rattle  of  pebbles.    Wait.    Stop. 

He  looked  down  intently  into  a  stone  crypt.     Some  animi 

Wait.    There  he  goes.  . ,      .    ■, 

An  obese  grey  rat  toddled  along  the  side  of  the  crypt,  mo\ai 
the  pebbles.  An  old  stager:  grandfather:  he  knows  the  ropes,  i 
grey  alive  crushed  itself  in  under  the  plinth,  wriggled  itself  in  under 
Who  lives  there?  Are  laid  the  remains  of  Robert  Eiliot.  Kc 
ert  Emmet  was  buried  here  by  torchk'ght.  wasn't  he?  Making  1 
rounds. 

Tail  gone  now.  ,      .      r  u  v>- 

One  of  those  chaps  would  make  short  work  of  a  fellow.  Fi 
the  bones  clean  no  matter  who  it  was.  Ordinary  meat  for  the 
A  corpse  is  meat  gone  bad.  I  read  in  that  voyags  m  China  tl 
the  Chinese  say  a  white  man  smells  like  a  corpse.  Worn 
does  the  news  go  about  whenever  a  fresh  one  is  let  down.  VVould 
be  surprised.  Regular  square  feed  for  them.  Got  wind  of  DignE 
They  wouldn't  care  about  the  smell  of  it.  Saltwhite  crumbl 
mush  of  corpse:  smell,  taste  like  raw  white  turnips. 

The  gates  glimmered  in  front:  still  open.  Back  to  the  wc 
again.     Enough  of  this  place.     A  little  goes  a  long  way,     Bni 


The    Little    Review  37 


)U  a  bit  nearer  every  time.  Last  time  I  was  here  was  Mrs.  Sinico's 
ineral.  Give  von,  the  creeps  after  a  bit.  Tlenty  to  see  aiid 
^;ir  and  feel  yet'.  Feel  live  warm  beings  near  you.  Let  them  sleep  m 
leir  maggoty  beds.  They  are  not  going  to  get  me  this  innmgs. 
/armbeds:  warm  fullblooded  life. 

Martin  Cunninghm  emerged  from  a  sidepth,  talknig  gravely. 

Solicitor,  I  think.  I  know  his  face.  Menton.  Dignam  used  to 
e  in  his  office.  Mat  Dillon's  long  ago.  Got  his  rag  out  that 
v'ening  on  the  bowlinggreen  because  I  sailed  inside  him.  Pure 
uke  of  m'ne:  the  bias.  Molly  and  Floey  Dillon  linked  under  the 
lactree,  laughing.     Fellow  always  like  that  if  women  are  by. 

Got  a  dinge'in  the  side  of  his  hat.    Carriage  probably. 

Excuse  me,  sir.  Mr.  Bloom  said  beside  them. 

Thev  stopped.  .     . 

—Your  hat  is  a  little  crushed,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  pointing. 

John  Henry  Menton  stared  at  h'm  for  an  instant  without  moving. 

There.  Martin  Cunningham  helped,  pointing  also. 

John  Henry  Menton  took  off  his  hat.  bulged  out  the  dinge  and 
moothed  the  nap  with  care  on  his  coatsleeve.  He  clapped  the  hat 
n  his  head  again. 

It's  all  right  now,  Martin  Cunningham  said. 

John  Henry  Martin  jerked  his  head  down  in  aknowledgement! 

— Thank  vou,  he  said  shortly. 

They  walked  on  towards  the  gates.  Browbeaten  Mr.  Bloom 
ell  behind  a  few  paces  so  as  not  to  overhear.  Martin  laying  down 
he  law.  Martin  could  wind  a  fathead  like  that  round  his  little 
inger  without  his  seeing  it.  _  •  • 

Oyster  eyes.  Never  mind.  Be  sorry  after  perhaps  when  it  dawns 
)n  him.     Get  the  pull  over  him  that  way. 

Thank  vou.     How  grand  we  are  this  morning! 


SENILITY  ,   . 

Sherwood  Anderson 

E  WAS  an  old  man  and  sat  on  the  steps  of  the  railroad  station 
_  _  in  a  small  Kentucky  town.  A  well-dressed  man,  some  traveler 
from  the  city,  approached  and  stood  before  him.  The  old  man  be- 
:ame  self-conscious.  His  face  was  all  sunken  and  wrinkled  and  he 
lad  a  hugh  nose.  His  smile  was  like  the  smile  of  a  very  young  child. 
"Have  you  any  coughs,  colds,  consumption  or  bleeding  sick- 


R 


38  The    Little    Review 


ness?"  he  asked.  In  his  voice  there  was  a  pleading  quality. 
The  stranger  shook  his  read.  • 

The  old  man  arose.  "The  sickness  that  bleeds  is  a  terrible  nui 
sance"  he  said.  His  tongue  protruded  from  between  his  teeth  and  h 
rattled  it  about.  He  put  his  hand  on  the  stranger's  arm  an. 
laughed.  "Bully.  Pretty,"  he  exclaimed.  "I  cure  them  all  - 
coughs,  colds,  consumption  and  the  sickness  that  bleeds.  I  tak 
warts  from  the  hand.  I  cannot  explain  how  I  do  it.  It  is  a  mystery 
I  charge  nothing.    My  name  is  Tom.    Do  you  like  me?" 

The  stranger  was  cordial.  He  nodded  his  head.  The  old  mai 
became  reminiscent. 

"My  father  was  a  hard  man,"  he  declared.  "He  was  like  me, 
blacksmith  by  trade  but  he  wore  a  plug  hat.  When  the  corn  wa; 
high,  he  said  to  the  poor  'go  into  the  fields  and  pick,'  but  when  th( 
war  came  on  he  made  a  rich  man  pay  five  dollars  for  a  bushel  ol 
corn," 

"I  married  against  his  will.  He  came  to  me  and  said.  "Tom,  I  d' 
not  like  that  girl!"    "But  I  love  her"  I  said.    'I  don't,'  he  said. 

"My  father  and  I  sat  on  a  log.  He  was  a  pretty  man  and  wore 
a  plug  hat.  'I  will  get  the  license'  I  said.  'I  will  give  you  no 
money'  he  said. 

"The  license  cost  me  twenty-one  ^  dollars.  I  worked  in  the  corn. 
It  rained  and  the  horses  were  blind.  The  clerk  .said  'Are  you  over 
twenty-one?'  I  said  'yes'  and  she  said  'yes.'  We  had  chalked  the 
numbers  on  our  shoes.  My  father  said  'I  give  you  your  freedom.' 
We  had  no  money.  The  licen5e  cost  twenty-one  dollars.  She- is 
dead." 

The  old  man  looked  at  the  sky.  It  was  evening  and  the  sun 
had  set.  I'he  sky  was  all  mottled  with  grey  clouds.  "I  paint  beau- 
tiful pictures  and  give  them  away,"  he  declared.  "My  brother  is 
in  the  penitent'ary.  He  killed  a  man  who  called  him  an  ugly  name." 
The  decrepit  old  man  held  his  hands  before  the  face  of  the 
stranger.  He  opened  and  shut  them.  They  were  black  with  grime. 
"I  pick  out  warts,"  he  explained  plaintively.  "They  are  as  soft  as 
your  hands.  I  play  on  an  accordion.  You  are  thirty-seven  years 
old.  I  sat  beside  my  brother  in  the  penitentiary.  He  is  a  pretty 
man  with  pompadour  ha"r.  'Albert,'  I  said,  'are  you  sorry  you 
killed  a  man?'  'No,'  he  said,  'I  am  not  sorry.  I  would  kill  te'\  a 
hundred,  a  thousand!'  " 

The  old  man  began  to  weep  and  wiped  his  eyes  with  a  soiled 
handkerchief.  He  attempted  to  take  a  chew  of  tobacco  and  his  false 
teeth  became  displaced.    He  covered  his  mouth  with  his  hands  and 


The    Little    Review 


39 


was  ashamed.  "I  am  old.  You  are  thirty-seven  years  old  but  I  am 
older  than  that"  he  whispered.  "My  brother  is  a  bad  man  He  is 
full  of  hate.  He  is  pretty  and  has  pompadour  hair  but  he  would 
kill  and  kill.    I  hate  old  age.    I  am  ashamed  that  I  am  old." 

"I  have  a  pretty  new  wife.  I  wrote  her  four  letters  and  she  re- 
plied. She  came  here  and  we  married.  1  love  to  see  her  walk.  Oh  I 
buy  her  pretty  clothes.  Her  foot  is  not  straight.  It  is  twisted.  My 
first  wife  is  dead.  I  pick  warts  off.  the  hands  with  my  fingers  and  no 
blood  comes.  1  cure  coughs,  colds,  consumption,  and  the  sickness 
that  bleeds.  People  can  write  to  me  and  I  answer  the  letters.  If 
they  send  me  no  money  it  is  no  matter.    All  is  free." 

Again  the  old  man  wept  and  the  stranger  tried  to  comfort  him. 
"You  are  a  happy  man?"  the  stranger  asked.  "Yes"  said  the  old 
man,  "and  a  good  man  too.  Ask  everywhere  about  me.  My  name 
is  Tom,  a  blacksmith.  My  wife  walks  prettily  although  she  has  a 
twisted  foot.  I  have  bought  her  a  long  dress.  She  is  thirty  and  I 
am  seventy-five.  She  has  many  pairs  of  shoes.  I  have  bought  them 
for  her  but  her  foot  is  twisted.  I  buy  straight  shoes.  She  thinks 
I  do  not  know.  Everybody  thinks  Tom  does  not  know.  I  have 
bought  her  a  long  dress  that  comes  down  to  the  ground.  My  name 
is  Tom,  a  blacksmith.  I  am  seventy-five  .  I  hate  old  age.  I  take 
warts  off  the  hands  and  no  blood  comes.  People  may  write  to  me 
and  I  answer.    All  is  free." 

DECAY         i  I 
Ben  Hecht 

TTERE  in  this  street  the  half  dead  begin  to  give  forth  an  odor. 
J-l  The  rows  of  sagging  little  houses  are  like  the  teeth  in  an 
old  man's  mouth.  From  them  arise  the  exhalations  of  stagnant 
wood,  of  putrescent  stairways,  of  bodies  from  which  the  sweats  of 
lust  have  never  been  washed,  of  ulcerous  shadows  and  soft,  bubbling 
alleys.  The  stench  is  like  a  grime  that  leadens  the  air.  In  this 
street  live  men  and  women  whose  hungers  are  not  complicated  by 
trifles.  In  tliis  they  are,  as  they  move,  thick  faced  and  unsmiling  in 
the  musty  flatulent  light  of  the  neighborhood,  somewhat  different 
from  the  little  greedy  half  dead  who  have  civilized  their  odors  and 
made  ethics  of  their  hungers. 

The  people  who  live  in  this  street  walk  as  if  thev  were  being 
pushed  in  and  out  of  the  sagging  houses.  Shrieking  children  appear 
and  sprawl  about.    They  roll  over  one  another,  their  faces  contorted 


40  T  he    Li  t  tie    Review 

with  a  miniature  senility.  Tliey  urinate  in  gutters,  throw  stones  at 
each  other  in  the  soft  alleys,  run  after  each  other  cursing  and  gestur- 
ing with  idiot  violence.  They  bring  an  awkward  fever  into  the 
street.  Oblivious  to  them  and  to  the  debris  about  them,  barrell- 
shaped  women  strut  with  protuberant  bellies  and  great  flapping 
shoes  over  the  pavements.  They  move  as  if  unaccustomed  to  walk- 
ing in  streets. 

It  grows  dark  and  the  men  from  the  factories  coming  home  be- 
gin to  crowd  the  streets.  They  walk  in  silence,  a  broken  string  of 
shuffling  hieroglyphs  against  the  red  of  the  sky.  Their  knees  bend, 
their  jaws  thrust  forward,  their  heads  wag  from  side  to  side.  They 
vanish  into  the  sagging  houses  and  the  night  comes,  an  unwavering 
gloom  picked  with  little  yellow  glows  from  windows.  The  houses 
lie  like  bundles  of  carefully  piled  rags  in  the  darkness.  The  shriek- 
ing of  the  children  has  died  and  with  it  the  pale  fever  of  the  day  has 
passed  out  of  the  air.  There  are  left  only  the  odors,  the  invisible 
banners  of  decay  that  float  upon  the  night.  The  stench  of  fat  kitch- 
ens, of  soft  bubbling  alleys,  of  gleaming  refuse  and  of  the  indefin- 
able evaporations  from  the  dark  bundles  of  houses  wherein  the  little 
half  dead  have  packed  themselves  away,  comes  like  a  rust  into  the 
nose. 

Later  drunken  men  appear  and  lurch  into  the  darkness  with 
cursings  and  mutterings.  The  smoke  of  the  factory  chimnies  is 
now  invisible  but  the  chimnies,  like  rows  of  cylindrical  minarets, 
make  darker  streaks  in  the  gloom  and  in  the  distance  blast  furnaces 
gut  the  night  with  pink  and  orange  flares.  The  figures  of  young 
women  not  yet  shaped  like  barrells  come  out  into  the  street  and 
stand  for  long  moments  in  the  shadows.  They  move  noiselessly  into 
the  depths  of  the  soft  bubbling  alleys  and  vanish.  As  it  grows 
darker  the  exhalations  of  these  alleys  and  houses  increase  as  if  some 
great  disintegration  was  stevv'ing  in  the  night.  It  was  in  one  of  these 
houses  that  I  once  lived.  At  night  I  now  sometimes  recall  things 
that  used  to  happen  in  this  house.  When  I  grow  weary  with  the  in- 
terminable adjustment  of  adjectives  these  memories  grimace  in  the 
blank  spaces  of  my  thought.  And  when  I  grow  uncertain  moving  in 
the  streets  where  there  are  no  odors  these  memories  surround  me  with 
the  fugitive  embrace  of  explanation. 

There  were  eight  children  in  Otto  Muznik's  family.  They 
lived  with  Otto  Muznik  and  his  wife  in  three  rooms.  In  summer 
and  in  winter  these  rooms  were  filled  with  a  pungent  bitter  smell. 
There  was  a  great  noise  in  them  also.    The  eight  children  screamed 


T  he    Lit  tl  e    Rev  iew  41 

at  each  other.  Otto  Muznik  and  his  wife  screamed,  at  them  and  at 
each  other.  One  of  the  rooms  was  a  kitchen.  The  two  other  were 
bedrooms  filled  with  cots.  The  screams  and  the  stench  in  the  three 
rooms,  the  littered  floors  and  devestated  funiture  told  of  activities. 

Willy  Muznik  had  a  poisoned  foot.  A  cat  he  had  brought 
home  had  bitten  him.  It  was  night  and  Mrs.  Muznik  sat  in  the 
kitchen.  She  was  a  woman  with  a  spreading,  phlegmatic  body  and  a 
round  red  and  shining  face.  Her  eyes  were  little.  She  went  about 
with  an  unwavering  stare,  staring  at  this  and  at  that.  She  sat  in  the 
kitchen  now  and  stared  at  the  stove  on  which  a  black  pot  full  of 
meat  and  soup  was  boiling.  Willy  was  eleven.  He  sat  in  a  corner 
doubled  up  like  a  contortionist  and  suking  on  his  bared  grimy  foot. 
Mrs.  Muznik  stared  at  him. 

"What  did  the  doctor  say?"  she  asked.  She  spoke  in  her  own 
language  and  in  a  sharp  husky  voice.  She  had  come  home  a  few 
minutes  ago  from  her  day's  scrubbing.  During  the  day  she  moved 
on  her  knees  down  the  corridors  of  a  large  office  building  miles  from 
the  street  in  which  she  lived.  Willy  removed  the  foot  from  his 
mouth,  and  began  to  wail.    Mrs.  Muznik  stared  at  him  and  waited. 

"The  doctor  says  he'll  maybe  have  to  cut  my  foot  off,  "Willy 
finally  answered.  His  mother  stared  at  the  foot.  Through  'the 
grime  below  the  instep  she  saw  a  curious  discoloration.  She  wiped 
her  eyes  and  sighed. 

"Your  Pa'U  give  it  to  you  for  bringing  cats  home,"  she  said. 
"He  told  you  not  to  bring  any  more  cats  home."  Willy  holding  his 
foot  in  his  hand  rocked  back  and  forth  on  the  floor  and  wailed. 
Mrs.  Muznik  arose  and  looked  into  the  black  ix)t.  She  turned  her 
eyes  toward  Willy  crying  on  the  floor  and  a  bewiderment  tightened 
her  flat  features. 

"Willy,"  she  asked,  "does  it  hurt?"  For  answer  Willy  in- 
creased his  wail  and  Mrs.  Muznik  looked  at  him,  shaking  her  head. 
She  moved  into  another  room.  The  gas  light  from  the  kitchen 
threw  a  faint  glare  among  the  shadows  of  this  room.  She  sat  down 
in  a  chair  crowded  between  two  cots.  The  sounds  of  someone  gasp- 
ing came  to  her  and  she  stared  about  in  the  dark. 

"Is  that  you,  Joey?"  she  asked.  The  door  leading  into  the 
street  opened  and  Jenny,  a  girl  of  fourteen  with  a  round  red  and 
shining  face  and  a  pa'r  of  long  almost  withered  legs,  rushed  in 
screaming.  In  the  dim  light  that  dropped  into  the  room  from  the 
street  Mrs.  Muznik  saw  her  son  lying  on  the  floor.  She  rushed  over 
and  shook  him. 


^^  The    Little    Review 


Don  t  have  a  fit,"  she  cried  .  "Joey.  .  .  Joey.  Wait  till  your 
ragoes^  He  cant  stand  it."  Joey  stiffened  and  rolled  over  on  hi^ 
tace.  He  was  fourteen.  His  head  was  bent  under  as  if  he  were  trv- 
ing  to  stand  on  it.    A  fine  foam  bubbled  on  his  lips 

"Get  the  cold  water,"  Mrs.  Muznik  ordered.  Jenny  rushed  out 
ot  the  room  smging  a  song  she  had  learned  in  the  alleys.  She  re- 
turned with  a  pot  of  water  and  Mrs.  Muznik  threw  it  over  Joey's 
head  and  shoulders.  The  voices  of  the  two  babies  suddenly  awakened 
filled  Ihe  room  with  screams.  The  two  babies  were  Munch  and 
bam.  One  of  them.  Munch,  was  s'ck.  His  hoarse  fever  cry  rose 
above  his  brother's  complaint.  Mrs.  MuznUc  lighted  a  gas  jet  and 
the  stench  and  disorder  of  the  room  came  flickering  out  of  the  shad- 
ow. She  leaned  over  one  of  the  cots  and  picked  up  Munch.  He  was 
covered  with  a  few  heavy  rags.  Through  the  cloth  the  dry  heat  of 
his  body  burned  against  Mrs.  Muznik's  hands  and  bosom  She  held 
the  infant  and  cried  to  Jenny  who  was  pulling  a  grimy  cloth  over 
the  table  in  the  kitchen. 

"Where's  Fanny?"  The  screaming  of  the  infants  almost 
drowned  the  shriek  of  Jenny's  answer.  Jenny  laughing  shrilly  cried 
back,  "Fanny's  in  the  alley.  Fanny's  in  the  alley."  Mrs.  Muznik 
laid  the  hot  little  body  on  the  cot  beside  the  other  screamer  and 
went  to  a  window.  She  thrust  it  open  and  leaned  out  in  the  dark- 
ness.   Her  little  eyes  stared  into  the  ally  below. 

"Fanny,"  she  cried.  "You  come  right  in  at  once."  Her  ears 
Strained  to  catch  sounds.  She  heard  a  boy's  voice  whispering  below 
and  made  out  two  figures  moving  about  aga'nst  the  dark  wall." 

"Fanny,  Fanny."  she  screamed.  "Come  away.  I'll  come  after 
you  with  a  whip."  There  were  more  whisperings  and  then  one  Of  the 
figures  detached  itself  from  the  gloom  and  floated  into  the  depths  of 
the  alley. 

"All  right  ma,"  a  vo'ce  answered.  Mrs.  Muznik  sat  down  on 
the  cot  and  stared  at  the  two  little  bundles  that  screamed  on  the 
other  side  of  the  room.  The  door  opened  and  Fanny  entered  She 
was  fitteen  and  had  a  ribbon  in  her  hair.  Her  face'was  round  and 
shining  and  as  red  as  her  mother's.  The  two  little  black  eyes  were 
lighted.  Her  dress  was  crumbled  and  covered  with  alley  dirt.  Mrs. 
Muzn-k  stared.    From  the  kitchen  Willy's  wailing  came  to  her. 

"  I  can't  walk,  ma,  I  can't  walk."  Willy  came  hopping  into 
the  room  on  one  leg  and  fell  across  the  floor.  He  lay  screaming  at 
Mrs.  Muznik's  feet.  Mrs.  Muznik  turned  toward  Joey  who  was^sit- 
ting  near  her. 


The    Little    Review 


43 


"How  do  you  feel?"  she  asked.  Joey's  thin  compressed  face 
smiled.     He  shook  his  head. 

"All  right  now,"  he  said.     ''Can  I  have  some  lemon  drops?" 

"Here  Jenny,"  Mrs.  Muznik  ordered.  "Go  out  and  buy  a  penny's 
worth."  Jenny's  thin  legs  flashed  out  of  the  room  into  the  street . 
Fanny  had  gone  into  the  kitchen  to  look  at  the  black  pot  on  the 
stove.  Mrs.  Muznik  stared  out  of  the  window  and  after  a  silence 
during  which  the  babies  continued  to  scream  called  out.  "Fanny, 
what  you  been  do'ng?"  A  laugh  from  the  kitchen  answered.  The 
mother  dropped  her  head  and  rocked  slightly  in  her  seat.  The  un- 
even floor  about  her  was  littered  with  clothes  from  which  a  heavy 
musty  odor  came.  The  walls  were  broken  and  smeared.  The  win- 
dows in  front  of  her  made  two  little  grey  clouds.  The  stench  of  the 
room  came  into  Mrs.  IVIuznik's  head  and  made  her  sleepy.  She' 
drew  a  long  breath  and  continued  to  rock  her  body  gently  back  and 
forth.  First  the  children  would  eat  and  then  she  would  wake  up 
Otto.  Otto  worked  nights  in  a  steel  mill.  He  did  not  have  to  leave 
the  house  for  two  more  hours.  The  stench  and  noise  of  the  room 
drifted  away  from  Mrs  Muznik  as  she  sat  and  rocked.  Idle  little 
though! s  crept  intr  her  head.  Her  body  was  t'red.  The  shoulders 
ached  and  burned  and  the  small  of  her  back  throbbed.  She  was 
afraid  she  was  going  to  have  another  baby.  Willy's  foot  would  have 
to  be  cut  off.  Joey  was  sick.  Munch,  little  Munch  was  sick.  His 
hoarse  fever  cry  was  growing  softer.  He  lay  whimpering,  his  tiny 
hands  moving  over  h's  face. 

These  things  drifted  through  Mrs.  Muznik's  thoughts,  keeping 
her  awake  as  she  rocked  back  and  forth.  She  thought  of  Otto  going 
to  work  in  the  darkness.  He  stood  in  front  of  an  open  furnace 
that  roared  with  fire  and  fed  melted  steel  into  it.  She  had  seen  him 
once.  He  was  almost  naked.  The  memory  of  his  body  reddened  by 
the  glare  whxh  spread  out  of  the  open 'furnace  remained  always 
with  her.  Otto's  muscles  stood  out  and  in  his  loosely  belted  trousers  he 
had  seemed  great  and  strong  to  her.  The  red  light  and  the  roar  and 
the  sputter  of  melted  steel  made  him  shine  and  changed  him  into  a 
man  with  burning  eyes  and  flaming  skin.  Whenever  he  left  for 
work  after  that  Mrs.  Muznik  remembered  this  and  a  vague  shiver 
passed  through  her. 

Mrs.  Muznik  thought  of  the  ache  and  throb  of  her  back  as  if 
they  were  memories.  Willy  hobbled  passed  her  into  the  kitchen. 
Jenny  burst  in  through  the  door.     She  handed  Joey  lemon  drops. 


8 


44  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

"Give  me  a  little  bit,"  said  Mrs.  Muznik. 

"Ma,"  Joey  cried,  "there's  a  rat.  It's  wiping  its  nose  with  il 
feet."  He  looked  eagerly  into  the  dark  alley.  Mrs.  Muznik  at 
lemon  drops.  A  warmth  spread  over  her,  making  her  feet  hun 
This  hour  of  the  n^ght  was  her  leisure.  She  was  used  to  sit  like  th 
and  rock  back  and  forth  and  let  little  idle  dreary  thoughts  creej 
through  her  mind.  Behind  her  eyes  there  was  a  darkness  that  canr 
between  her  thought  at  these  times  and  the  things  she  saw  an 
heard.  But  this  night  the  hoarse  fever  cry  of  the  baby  on  the  C( 
chirped  in  her  ears.  Joey  went  into  the  kitchen  and  ate.  He  can 
back.    Fanny  followed  him,  skipping  from  one  foot  to  another. 

"Going  out,  ma,"  she  cried.  Mrs.  Muznik  raised  an  arm  towai 
the  girl. 

"Wait.  .  .  wait."  she  called. 

Fanny  appeared  vague  and  dark  in  the  alley  below.  Mi 
Muznik  stared  at  her  as  she  floated  away  into  the  gloom.  SI 
turned  from  the  window  and  resumed  her  rocking.  She  heard 
from  a  distance  the  voice  of  Willy  wailing  about  his  foot  and  tl 
voices  of  her  two  babies  screaming  again.  Munch  was  sick.  Tl 
doctor  had  said  Munch  might  die.  But  Mrs.  Muznik  did  not  b 
lieve  this.  None  of  the  others  had  died  and  they  had  all  been  sic 
She  sucked  at  the  lemon  drop  in  her  mouth.  The  ache  and  burn 
her  shouders  were  like  hot  voices  bothering  her  bram.  The  hoar 
fever  cry  of  the  baby  on  the  cot  was  another  little  hot  voice  in  h 
brain. 

"Oh,  ma,"  cried  Joey  from  the  window.  "There's  Fanny  wi 
three  boys  in  the  alley."  Mrs.  Muznik  rocked.  "Never  mind,"  s 
murmured.  The  hot  voices  made  her  feel  swollen  within.  H 
feet  felt  as  if  they  were  resting  in  flames.  Joey  came  to  her  a: 
looked  at  her  face. 

"Tired,  ma?"  he  asked.  Mrs.  Muznik  lifted  him  into  her  k 
He  was  a  thin  fragile  boy.  She  put  her  arms  around  him  and  clu 
to  him.  He  felt  cool  and  sweet  to  her  flesh  beneath  the  dress.  1 
was  better  than  Willy,  than  Munch,  and  Sam,  than  Jenny  and  Fa 
ny.  than  He'ne.  Heine  was  in  jail.  He  had  done  something.  A 
Mary  her  oldest  had  gone  away.  Mary  was  wild  like  Fanny.  W 
ly's  foot  would  be  cut  off.  Munch  was  crying  so  weakly.  _  M 
Muznik  kissed  Joey  and  rocked.  It  was  dark  outside  and  in  1: 
head  it  was  dark.  The  smell  of  the  room  ivas  another  darkness  a 
the  burn  of  her  body  another.  She  sat  hunched  over  Joey,  clingi 
to  him,  and  as  she  clung  a  sweetness  came  into  her.     Her  act 


10 


T he    Little    Review  45 


In  a  few  minutes  she  would  have  to  go  to  bed.  It  was  wrong 
,r  her  to  sit  up  and  hold  Joey.  She  needed  the  rest  in  bed.  The 
:  ubbing  was  hard.  It  lasted  all  day.  She  rocked  and  the  dark- 
L  in  and  around  her  grew  deeper.  He  ears  fell  asleep.  She  no 
,nger  heard  the  noises  in  the  room.  Jenny  was  tuggmg  at  her 
loulder  and  crying  in  a  loud  voice,  u  to    t  ^on 

''If  Fanny  can  go  out  in  the  alley  and  play  why  can  t  I?  i  can 
lav  if  Fannv  can  go  in  the  alley  and  play."  , 

Mrs  Muznik  couldn't  make  out  what  Jenny  w^  saying.  She 
jcked.    "jenny  moved  cautiously  toward  the  door.     She  opened  it 

^'Ma  "  cried  Willy  in  a  shrill  voice  from  one  of  the  cots,  "Jen- 
y's  going  out  in  the  alley."  A  breath  of  night  air  laden  with  less 
^t  mate  odors  struck  at  the  room  through  the  opened  door.  Fanny 
Doeared  thrusting  her  face  in  and  whispering  hoarsely, 
"^"Comeon.  Ma's  asleep.  I  got  some  boys,  three  boys.  Come 
n,  don't  be  afraid.     We're  going  over  by  the  next  alley.     Mas 

'^'' Jenny  trembled  and  her  withered  legs  in  their  torn  black  stock- 
aes  knocked  together.  A  warmth  trickled  through  her  flat  body. 
Snv  Szed  hir  cold  hand.  She  dragged  her  out  of  the  room 
ClauSter  of  the  two  girls  sounded  from  the  street  and  the  quick 

.to  ^^^^^^>ZV^  '7e.ny's  gone.     Jenny's  gon." 

M^  Muznik  nodded  her  head  and  rocked.    She  dreamed  Joey 

vas    amn<.  out  of  her  arms  and  awoke  startled.     Joey  was  asleep. 

h    wh  ipereS  to  him,  kissing  his  ear.    Lifting  h  m  to  the  co    ^e 

)  aid  him  down  and  knelt  beside  him  taking  off  his  torn  shoes.      Jen- 

I^^'^"rt1n  the  alley,"  Willy  cried  and  resumed  his  moan- 

J  ns     ''My  foot  hurts  me  worse,  ma."  ^      ,,    ,     ;,i,  u^^  UhIp 

'  ^   Mrs.  Muznik  straightened  to  her   eet  and  talked  with  her  little 

1  ,yes  staring  to  the  open  dc^r.    Her  ^--e  sailed  into  th^^^^^^^^^^^ 

I         "Tennv    Jenny  come  here,"  screamed.     The  darkness  neia  me 

Lund  of  S  voice  for  an  instant  and  then  grew  silent.     She  closed 

Tdo^/  and  Tood  staring  at  the  babies  on  the  cot^      ometh^^^^^^  im- 

nelled  her  toward  Munch  and  she  lifted  him.     The  dry  neat  or  ms 

Itsuncl  through  her  dress  at  her  hard  bosom  and  at  Oie  hard 

skin  of  her  arms.    It  was  whimpermg  aftd  moving  it  hands  slowiy 


46  The    Little    Revie 


w 


and  aimlessly  over  its  face.  Mrs.  Muznik  stood  and  rocked  it  in  her 
arms.  .  .  The  baby  stopped  crying  and  lay  quiet.  She  placed  it, 
next  to  Sam  who  had  also  fallen  asleep  for  the  moment.  It  was  time 
tc  wake  up  Otto  and  she  moved  into  the  kitchen. 

She  leaned  over  the  black  pot  on  the  stove,  thinking.  Yet  there 
were  no  words  to  her  thoughts.  They  came  like  little  burns  into  her 
brain,  and  she  nodded  her  head  slowly  and  aimlessly  as  they  ap- 
pered.  This  and  that,  Fanny  and  Jenny,  Munch  and  Willy,  Heine 
and  ~the  long  corridors  over  which  she  crawled  all  day,  mingled  with 
the  stench  of  the  room  and  the  ache  of  her  body  and  she  remained 
staring  into  the  black  pot  that  was  boiling  and  feeling  the  heat  of 
the  stove  pass  in  waves  over  her  face.  A  voice  called  to  her  from 
another  room.  She  turned  and  saw  the  door  of  tJie  other  bedroom 
had  opened.  A  stale  bitter  smell  drafted  into  the  kitchen.  The 
figure  of  her  husband  dressed  in  a  suit  of  long  dirty  underwear  and 
a  pair  of  thick  hard  socks  appeared  in  the  doorway.  His  face  was 
smeared  with  sleep.    A  growth  of  hair,  hid  his  chin  and  cheeks. 

"Ma,"  he  called  to  her  stretching  his  arms,  '"come  here  a  min- 
ute." 

Mrs.  Muznik  stared  at  him.  "What  for?"  she  asked.  The 
fam'liar  figure  in  the  doorway  was  clouded  in  a  darkness  that  burned 
behind  her  eyes.  A  grin  overspread  her  husband's  face.  His  jaws 
thrust  forward  and  his  eyes  began  to  shine.  The  grin  passed  and 
he  remained  glowering  at  Mrs.  Muznik.  Then  he  came  with  his 
shoulders  swaying  into  the  kitchen  and  seized  her  by  the.  arm.  Mrs. 
Muzn'k  stared  into  the  black  pot  on  the  stove.  As  Otto  shoved  her 
before  him  her  mouth  opened  and  her  eyes  turned  to  him. 

"No,  no."  she  whispered.  "No  Otto.  You  go  to  work.  Wil- 
ly's having  trouble  with  his  foot." 

Otto  confnued  to  drag  the  heavy  figure  of  his  wife  toward  the 
bedroom.  A  glowering  playfulness  was  in  his  face  and  gestures. 

"No  Otto,  not  now.  Let  me  be,  "Mrs.  Muznik  cried.  "You 
go  eat." 

Otto  laughed  and  struck  her  on  the  shoulders.  Stepping  be- 
hind her  he  cursed  and  with  a  guffaw  pushed  her  violently  into  the 
dark  bitter  smelling  bedroom.  She  staggered  toward  one  of  the  beds 
and  dropped  into  it.  Through  the  open  door  she  watched  her  hus- 
band with  round  little  staring  eyes.  He  walked  back  to  the  sink  and 
drew  some  water  in  a  glass  and  drank  it.  He  was  a  short  stocky 
figure  in  his  dark  tattered  underwear.     She  remembered  him  before 


The    Little    Review  47 

the  furnace  door  in  the  steel  mill,  shining. 

"Come  on,  Otto,"  ^he  called.  Her  voice  was  hoarse  and  thin. 
She  sat  on  the  edge  of,  the  bed  and  waited  staring  now  into  the  dark- 
est part  of  the  room.  The  darkness  brought  a  sweetness  into  the 
burn  of  her  body.  She  rocked  genty  back  and  forth.  The  room 
floated  before  her  eyes  as  if  the  darkness  were  moving.  The  little 
burns  came  again  into  her  brain  and  the  stench  creeping  from  the 
walls  and  the  beds  confused  her.  Through  the  winodw  she  became 
aware  slowly  of  a  great  pink  and  orange  glow  that  hung  and  wavered 
in  the  distant  night.  It  was  from  the  factories.  She  eyed  it  as  the 
darkness  around  her  swayed  back  and  forth.  Her  body  leaned  for- 
ward and  she  fumbled  thickly  with  her  shoe,  her  mouth  open  and 
her  eyes  intent  upon  th"s  glow  in  the  distance.  The  little  burns 
had  gone  out  of  her  brain.  There  was  left  nothing  in  her  except 
a  darkness  m  which  rested  a  pink  and  orange  glow.  Her  lips  mum- 
bled sounds  and  .she  sat  repeating  the  name  of  her  husband,"Otto, 
Otto."  Then  her  body  tumbled  to  one  side  and  she  lay  across  the 
bed  as  if  she  had  been  flung  there. 

Otto  her  husband  came  at  last  into  the  bedroom.  He  was  gnaw- 
ing on  a  bone  and  a  piece  of  meat.  He  glowered  down  at  the  heavy 
figure  on  the  bed  that  mumbled,  ''Otto,  Otto." 

"Move  over  there,"  he  called  in  a  thi'ck  voice.  Mrs.  Muznik 
stirred  and  in  the  gloom  her  white  teeth  suddenly  flashed  in  a  grin. 
From  the  front  part  of  the  house  Willy''s  voice,  shrill  and  frightened, 
was  calling,  "Ma.  ma.  Something's  the  matter  with  Munch.  He's 
dead.    Ma  ...  ma  ...  " 

BOOKS  ^     -t     , 

JohnRodker 

VERHAEREN  got  drunk  and  smashed  all  the  bottles  in  the  bar. 
Swinburne  got  drunk  and  stove  in  all  the  hats  in  the  club  cloak-  , 
room.  Hence  one  must  be  a  "paroxyst"  to  be  a  poet,  a  fairly  safe  as- 
sumpt'on,  though  the  disease  ig  of  such  a  kind  as  gradually  en- 
croaches upon  the  host.  Both  "poets"  were  swept  away  by  their  own 
rhodomontade,  and  both  lost  whatever  faculty  for  perfection  they 
might  once  have  had,  by  a  conviction  that  poets  were  measured 
by  bulk. 


48  The    Little    Review 

M.  Albert  Meckel  has  written  a  book  —  published  by  La  Re- 
naissance du  Livre  2  fr.  50  —  on  Verhaeren's  work.  He  traces  his 
growth  as  a  human  being  —  yet  at  the  same  time  "born-poet"  — 
by  the  method  so  well  known  to  reviewers  :  "At  the  age  of  two 
he  got  his  first  'frisson'  from  the  spectacle  of  the  brindled  sow  giving 
birth  to  a  litter.  This  was  to  mark  an  epoch  and  give  him  that  zest 
for  life  which  he  was  never  to  grow  out  of."  Then  M.  Mockel  ana- 
lyzes his  books  chronologically,  explains  their  conception,  execution 
and  the  significant  facts  relating  thereto. 

Although  overwhelmed  by  his  enthusiasm,  M.  Mockel  has  used 
the  inch  rule  of  the  Academy  for  measuring  his  Colossus  and  has 
even  ventured  to  say  "Verhaeren  est  vraiment  aussi  rugueuse  ec- 
rivain  qu  'il  est  grand  poete!"  This  of  course  raises  the  inevitable 
ghost  of  "What  is  poetry,"  but  this  of  course  is  not  questioned  by 
M.  Mockel.  He  knows!  Yet  without  certain  individual  assumptions 
surely  the  whole  fabric  of  his  criticism  must  fall,  and  to  use  the  gen- 
eral qualities  of  "fougue"  painting  (imagery),  "tenderness",  etc.,  is 
to  use  qualities  available  in  all  other  art  forms  and  equally  in  prose. 
It  is  this  trouble  of  an  absence  of  a  "definite  unit"  by  which  one 
can  measure  poetry  (this  unit  existing  in  prose,  painting  and  music) 
that  has  as  yet  produced  no  definition  of  poetry. 

The  book  is  painstaking  however,  and  quite  interesting,  and 
is  closed  with  a  bang  on  the  words  "Verhaeren  is  the  epic  poet  of 
Energy."  This  may  be  true  but  we  hope  some  day  to  see  a  poet 
who  will  use  words  like  barbells  or  ether  for  the  transcription  of 
energy  and  not  the  current  speech  of  adjectives  and  conjunctions. 

Mon  Chant  de  Guerre  by  Fritz  R.  Vanderpyl  is  a  very  re- 
strained war-song  —  being  in  simple  rhythm,  felicitious  phrasing 
and  a  not  too  original  out-look.  Occasionally  he  interposes  English 
verses  of  an  amazing  triteness  and  one  wonders  why  this  sort  of 
thing  sounds  so  much  more  possible  in  French.  But  the  poem  on 
the  lamp  shows  a  very  sensitive  use  of  English.  The  book  is  worth 
reading  because  it  feels  "sound". 

■  Le  Coureur  D'Azur,  by  Paul  Aeschimann,  published  by  Cres 
et  Cie,  is  the  work  of  a  poet  and  has  the  qualities  one  is  accustomed 
to  look  for  in  poetry;  but  this  kind  of  accomplishment  —  original 
outlook  and  all  the  rest  —  becomes'  every  day  more  common.  The 
poet  is  no  longer  a  prophet  —  or  inspired,  and  a  high  level  of  ac- 
complishment means  nothing  except  that  the  author  has  a  good  brain. 
The  substitution  of  paroxysm  for  inspiration  is  an  index  of  the 
times. 


T  he    Lit  tie    R  e  view  49 


Dime/!  by  Susan  Miles  —  "printed  by"  Blackwell  isn't  poetry 
at  all,  although  printed  as  such  and  although  containing  the  only 
and  original  ingredients  of  poetry.  A  Chinese  poem  enumerates 
six  facts  and  there  is  a  poem,  but  Mrs.  Miles  enunciates  six  hundred 
and  leaves  a  joke.  The  difference  is  probably  due  to  her  stuff  never 
having  been  fired  so  as  to  run.  It  appears  instead  to  have  come 
through  a  sausage-machine  rather  than  a  mincer. 

Obviously  the  model  for  her  should  have  been  The  Spoon  River 
Anthology  for  she  too  has  taken  a  village  bit  by  bit  and  attempted  to 
render  it;  but  she  hasn't  either  the  humour  or  the  largeness  or  the 
feeling  of  Masters.  Or  rather  —  probably  she  has  the  feeling,  we 
all  have  feeling  nowadays, — but  has  not  worked  hard  enough  to 
synthesise  them. 

Minnie  Rolls:  C.  C.  H.  F.  is  the  chief  joke  of  the  book  and  is 
quite  funny  and  we  quote  from  it  : 

The  lady  what  lives  up  Minnie  Rolls'  Yards'  expecting  her  eleventh 

She  wont  half  have  a  hell  of  a  time, 

The  lady  what  lives  up  Minnie  Rolls'  Yard, 

Because  it's  Lion  year 

Lions  don't  have  their  babies 

But  once  in  seven  years 

And  the  year  as  lions  have  their  babies 

Ladies  don't  half  have  a  hell  of  a  time. 

Minnie  Roll's  Aunt  Flo's  expecting  her  first. 

She  knows  as  she's  expecting 

Because  Minnie  Rolls'  Uncle  Toms'  got  the  jawrache  something 

cruel 
Fellows  always  get  the  jawrache  something  cruel 
When  their  ladies  is  expecting. 

As  a  study  in  contemporary  demonology  the  study  is  priceless. 

Apteryx,  writing  in  the  Egoist,  has  various  illuminating  remarks 
on  modern  literature.  About  Cannan's  new  novel  The  Stucco  House, 
he  says  it  is  merely  a  deposit,  whereas  if  Cannan  really  wrote  his 
novels  they  might  be  literature.  This  is  interesting,  for  Henry 
James  writing  on  Round  the  Corner,. one  of  Cannan's  first  novels, 
said  it  belongs  "to  the  order  of  'constatations',  pure  and  simple."  We 
presume  then  that  Mr.  Cannan  gains  nothing  with  time.  Apteryx 
finishes  a  quotation  :  —  "That  is  not  prose,  it  is  oratory,  the  true 
manly  snuffle,  the  abdominal  throb.     Nevertheless  the  book  is  an 


50 


The    Little    Review 


inteijesting  book  and  it  might  be  better." 

I  was  at  one  time  interested  in  the  problem  of  Mr.  Cannan  anc 
then  I  found  his  translation  of  Jean  Christophe.  I  have  not  th< 
slightest  hesitation  in  affirming  that  Mr.  Cannan  has  mined  extens 
ively  from  this  book  and  will  continue  to  do  so  till  the  end  of  hii 
career.    Is  not  Apteryx  admiring  Jean  Christophe? 

He  continues:  "God  took  a  rib  from  the  side  of  Mr.  Chester 
ton  and  made  Mrs.  Meynell."  I  have  not  read  her  essays,  nor  do  : 
like  the  one  sonnet  which  is  said  to  be  the  glory  and  crown  of  th< 
modern  sonnet.  Literature  is  not  an  art  in  the  sense  of  an  accom 
plishment.  It  is  a  damned  sweat  at  best,  and  only  in  this  country 
would  it  be  necessary  for  a  critic  to  say  :  "But  we  must  learn  t( 
take  literature  seriously." 

We  regret  to  announce  the  death  in  action  of  Isaac  Rosenberg 
He  had  produced  a  volume  of  poems  and  a  play  Moses  (both  pri 
vately  printed) .  His  death  is  a  greater  loss  to  poetry  in  this  countr; 
than  any  death  during  the  war. 

THE  NOTES  FOR  "THE  IVORY  TOWER"  ==' 
Ezra   Pound 

12.  Main  character's  "solution"  or  vision  of  what  course  1: 

will  take.  ,     .      „ '   ,  .  •   .^ 

13.  The    fourth    character's   "break    mto"    thmgs,    or    into 

perception  of  things. 

(a)  Actions   of   an  auxiliary  character,   of  what  would  ha^ 

been  low  life  in  old  Spanish  or  Elizabethan  dram; 
This  character  affects  the  main  action  (as  sometimi 
a  "gracioso"  [servant,  buffoon,  Sancho  Panza]  a 
fects  the  main  action  in  a  play,  for  example,  of  Lof 
de  Vega's)  .  •  ..... 

(b)  Caution  not  to  let  author's  interest  m  fascmatmg  auxiliai 

character  run  away  with  his  whole  plan  and  desigi 

(This  kind  of  restraint  is  precisely  what  leaves  a  reader  "wan 

ing  more";  which  gives  a  novel  the  "feel"  of  being  full  of  life;  coi 

vinces  the  reader  of  an  abundant  energy  an  abundant  sense  of  li 

in  an  author)  . 

*  Continued  from  the  August  number. 


The    Little    Review  51 

14.  Effects  of  course  of  the  action  on  fourth  main  character 
ind  on  the  others.  The  scale  being  kept  by  the  relation  here  not 
,.)emg  between  main  character  and  one  antagonist,  but  with  a  group 
'>f  three  people,  relations  "different"  though  their  "point"  is  the 
ame  cj:  a  main  character  vs.  a  Rosenkrantz  and  Guildenstern,  or 
attendant  lords".  James  always  has  half  an  eye  on  play  construc- 
lon;  the  scene. 

(a)  The  second  auxiliary  character  brought  out  more  definite- 

ly.     (This   is  accidental.     It  might  happen  at  any 
suitable  point  in  a  story  wherever  needed)  . 

(b)  Act  of  this  auxiliary  person  reaches  through  to  main 
action. 

_    15.  We  see  the  author  determining  just  how  bad  a  case  he  is 
DUig  to  make  his  villain. 

(a)  Further  determination  of  his  hero.  (In  this  case  an  ab- 
solute non-producer,  non-accumulator) . 

(b)  Care  not  to  get  an  unmixed  "bad"  in  his  'Villain",  but 
to  keep  a  right  balance,  a  dependency,  in  this  'case, 
on  the  main  character's  weakness  or  easiness. 

(c)  Decision  how  the  main  "coup"  or  transfer  shall  slide 
through. 

16.  Effect  upon  C.     Effect  upon  main  characters'  relations  to 
.,  E.  and  F. 

At  this  point,  in  the  consideration  of  eight  of  the  ten  "books"  ' 
his  novel,  we  see  the  author  most  intent  on  his  composition  or 
:h!tecture,  most  anxious  to  get  all  the  sections  fitted  in  with 
2  greatest  economy,  a  sort  of  crux  of  his  excitement  and  anxietv 
fulness  of  his  perception  that  the  thing  must  be  so  tightly  packed 
It  no  sentence  can  afford  to  be  out  of  place. 

17-  Climax.     The  Deus  or,  in  this  case,  Dea,  ex  machina.  De- 
es for  prolonging  climax.    The  fourth  main  character  having  been 
It  were,  held  back  for  a  sort  of  weight  or  balance  here,  and  as 
^-esolution"  of  the  tangles.  ' 

Finis. 

18.  Authors   final   considerations  of  time   scheme,   ie     fittin^r 

action  into  time  not  too  great  for  unity,  and  great  enough"  to  allow 

needed   complexity.      Slighter   consideration   of  place   scheme- 

?re  final  scenes  shall  be  laid,  etc.  ^^neme, 

Here  in  a  few  paragraphs  are  the  bare  bones  of  the  plan  des- 

.ed  in  eighty  of  Henry  James's  pages.    The  detail  thoroughness  of 

i  plan,  the  complicated  consciousness  displayed  in  it  gives  us  the 


52  The    Little    Review 


measure  of  this  author's  superiority  ,as  conscious  artist,  over  the 
"normal"  British  novelist,  i.  e.,  over  the  sort  of  person  who  tells  yoi 
that  when  he  did  his  first  book  he  "just  sat  down  and  wrote 
the  first  paragraph",  and  then  found  he  "couldn't  stop".  This  b 
tells  you  in  a  manner  clearly  implying  that,  from  that  humble  be 
ginning  to  the  shining  hour  of  the  present,  he  has  given  the  matte 
no  further  thought,  and  that  his  succeeding  works  were  all  knockei 
off  with  equal  simplicity. 

I  give  this  outline  with  such  fulness  because  it  is  a  landmar 
in  the  history  of  the  novel  as  written  in  English.  It  is  inconceivabl 
that  Fielding  or  Richardson  should  have  left,  or  that  Thomas  Hard 
should  leave,  such  testimony  to  a  comprehension  of  the  novel  as 
"form".  The  Notes  are,  on  the  other  hand,  quite  distinct  from  tb 
voluminous  prefaces  which  so  many  French  poets  write  before  the 
have  done  anything  else.  James  ,we  note,  wrote  no  prefaces  unt 
there  were  twenty-four  volumes  of  his  novels  and  stories  waiting  1 
be  collected  and  republished.  The  Notes  are  simply  the  accumul; 
tion  of  his  craftman's  knowledge,  they  are,  in  all  their  length,  tl 
summary  of  the  things  he  would  have,  as  a  matter  of  .habit,  in  h 
mind  before  embarking  on  composition. 

I  take  it  rather  as  a  sign  of  editorial  woodenheadedness  th 
these  Notes  are  printed  at  the  end  of  The  Ivory  Tower;  if  one  ha- 
sense  enough  to  suspect  that  the  typical  mentality  of  the  elder 
heavy  reviewer  has  been  shown,  one  will  for  oneself  reverse  the  c 
der;  read  the  notes  with  interest  and  turn  to  the  text  already  wi 
the  excitement  of  the  sport  or  with  the  zest  to  see  if,  with  tl 
chance  of  creating  the  masterpiece  so  outlined,  the  distinguish 
author  is  going  to  make  good.  If  on  the  other  hand  one  reads  t 
unfinished  text,  there  is  no  escap'ng  the  boredom  of  re-reading 
skeleton,  with  tentative  and  confusing  names,  the  bare  statement 
what  has  been,  in  the  text,  more  fully -set  before  us. 

The  text  is  attestation  of  the  rich,  banked-up  perception  of  t 
author.  I  dare  say  the  snap  and  rattle  of  the  fun,  or  much  of  it.  v 
be  only  half  perceptible  to  those  who  do  not  know  both  banks  of  t 
Atlantic;  but  enough  remains  to  show  the  author  at  his  best;  desp 
the  fact  that  occas'onally  he  puts  in  the  mouths  of  his  characti 
sentences  or  phrases  that  no  one  but  he  himself  could  have  us( 
T  cannot  attribute  this  to  the  unfinished  state  of  the  manuscri; 
These  oversights  are  few.  but  they  are  the  kind  of  slip  which  occt 
in  his  earlier  work.  We  note  also  that  his  novel  is  a  descripti 
novel,  not  a  novel  that  simply  depicts  people  speaking  and  movii 


The    Little    Review 


53 


There  is  a  constant  dissertation  going  on,  and  in  it  is  our  major  en- 
loyment.  The  Notes  to  The  Sense  of  the  Past  are  not  so  fine  a 
specimen  of  method,  as  they  are  the  plan  not  of  a  whole  book,  but 
)nly  of  the  latter  section.  The  editor  is  quite  right  to  print  them 
It  the  end  of  the  volume. 

Of  the  actual  writing  in  the  three  posthumous  books,  far  the 
nu>t  charming  is  to  be  found  in  The  Middle  Years..  Here  again 
.nc  is  not  much  concerned  with  Mr.  James's  mildly  ironic  reminis- 
ences  of  Tennyson  and  the  Victorians,  but  rather  with  James's  own 
rnij)erament.  and  with  his  recording  of  inn-rooms,  breakfasts,  but- 
;rs.  etc..  very  much  as  he  had  done  in  his  fiction.  There  is  no  need 
Dr  its  being  '-memoirs"  at  all;  call  the  protagonist  Mr.  Ponsonbv 
T^Mr.  Hampion,  ob;it(rate  the  known  names  of  celeorities  and 
ilf  celebniies,  and  the  whole  thing  becomes  a  James  novel  and 
3  far  as  it  goes,  a  mate  to  the  best  of  them.  '         ' 

Retaining  the  name  of  the  author,  any  faithful  reader  of  James, 
r  at  any  rate  the  attentive  student,  finds  a  good  deal  of  amusement 
I  deciphermg  the  young  James,  his  temperament  as  mellowed  by 
-collection  and  here  recorded  forty  years  later,  and  then  in  con- 
asting  It  with  the  young  James  as  revealed  or  even  "betrayed"  in 
is  own  early  criticisms.  French  Poets  and  Novelists,  a  much  cruder 
id  more  savagely  puritanical  and  plainly  New  England  product 
ith  nowever.  certain  permanent  traits  of  his  character  already  in 
'idence.  and  w.th  a  critical  faculty  keen  enough  to  hit  on  certain 
eaknesses  in  the  authors  analysed,  often  with  profundity,  and  with 
ten  a  "rightness"  in  his  mistakes.  I  mean  that  apparent  errors 
e  at  times  only  an  excess  of  zeal  and  overshooting  of  his  mark 
iich  was  to  make  for  an  improvement,  by  him,  of  certain  defects    ' 


:^M'&^»:^.,.i^£^L;i^ii,>.fMli!iialeA 


54  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


WOMEN   AND  MEN* 
Ford  Madox  Hueffer 

VI 
AveragePeople 

She  was  the  daughter  of  a  day  labourer  among  the  hopfield 
of  Paddock  Wood.  When  she  had  been  born,  the  youngest  of  five 
her  own  mother  had  died.  Her  father  had  brought  a  stepmothe 
into  the  house.  I  never  discovered  that  the  step-mother  was  notabl; 
cruel  to  Mear>.  But  those  were- the  Hungry  Forties.  The  childrei 
never  had  enough  to  eat.  Once,  Meary  cut  off  one  of  her  big  toes 
She  had  jumped  down  into  a  ditch  after  a  piece  of  turnip  peel.  Sh 
had  of  course  had  no  shoes  or  stockings  and  there  had  been  a  broke 
bottle  in  the  ditch. 

So  her  childhood  had  been  a  matter  of  hunger,  thirst  and  frf 
quent  chastisements  with  the  end  of  a  leather  strap  that  her  fathf 
wore  round  his  waist.  When  she  was  fourteen  she  was  sent  t 
service  in  a  great  house  where  all  the  maids  slept  together  undt 
the  roof.  Here  they  told  each  other  legends  at  night— odd  legenc 
that  exactly  resembled  the  fairy  tales  of  Grimm— legends  of  princ( 
and  princesses,  of  castles,  or  of  travelling  companions  on  the  roa( 
A  great  many  of  these  stories  seemed  to  hinge  upon  the  price  < 
salt  which  at  one  time  was  extra;vagantly  dear  in  the  popular  men  j 
ory,  so  that  one  princess  offered  to  have  her  heart  cut  out  in  ordf  I 
to  purchase  a  pound  of  salt  that  should  restore  her  father  to  healt 

From  this  house  Meary  Walker  ran  away  with  a  gipsy — or 
least  he  was  what  in  that  part  of  the  world  was  called  a  "pikey"- 
a  user  of  the  turnpike  road.  So,  for  many  years  they  led  a  wande 
ing  existence,  until  at  last  they  settled  down  in  this  village.-  Uni 
the  date  of  that  settlement  Meary  had  not  troubled  to  marry  h 
Walker.  But  then  a  parson  insisted  on  it,  but  it  did  not  troub 
her  much  either  way. 

Walker  had  always  been  a  man  of  weak  health.  To  put 
shortly,  he  had  what  is  called  the  artistic  temperament — a  sma 
dark,  delicate  man  whose  one  enthusiasm  was  his  art  of  makii 


*    Continued  from  the  July  number. 


The    Little    Review 


55 


jbaskets.  In  that  he  certainly  excelled.  But  he  was  lazy  and  all  the 
iwork  of  their  support  fell  on  Meary.  She  tied  hops— and  this  is 
1  rather  skilled  work,— she  picked  them  in  the  autumn;  she  helped 
the  neighbours  with  baking  and  brewing.  She  cleaned  up  the 
:hurch  once  a  week.  She  planted  the  potatoes  and  cropped  them. 
5he  was  the  first  cottager  in  East  Kent  to  keep  poultry  for  profit. 
fn  her  biography,  which  I  have  related  at  greater  length  in  another 
wok  you  could  find  traces  of  great  benevolence  and  of  considerable 
leroism.  Thus,  one  hard  winter,  she  supported  not  only  herself 
ind  her  husband,  but  her  old  friend  Meary  Spratt,  at  that  time  a 
v;do\y  with  six  children.  Meary  Spratt  was  in  bed  with  pneumonia 
md  its  after  effects  from  December  to  March.  Meary  Walker 
uirsed  her,  washed  and  tended  the  children  and  made  the  livings  of 
11  of  them.  * 

Then  there  came  the  time  when  she  broke  her  leg  and  had  to 
e  taken  against  her  will  to  the  hospital  which  was  seven  miles  away. 
he  did  not  want  to  be  in  the  hospital;  she  was  anxious  to  be  with 
Valker  who  was  then  dying  of  gangrene  of  the  leg.  She  was  anxious 
30  about  a  sitting  hen;  one  of  her  neighbours  had  promised  her 
alf  a  crown  for  a  clutch  of  chickens.  She  used  to  lie  in  hospital, 
atting  her  broken  knee  under  the  bed  clothes  and  exclaiming: 

"Get  well,  get  well,  oh  do  get  well  quickly!"    And  even  twen- 

years  afterwards  when  she  rehearsed  these  scenes  and  these  words 
lere  would  remain  in  the  repetition  a  whole  world  of  passionate  wist- 
ilness.  But  indeed,  she  translated  her  passion  into  words.  One 
ight,  driven  beyond  endurance  by  the  want  of  news  of  Walker  and 
t  her  sitting  hen  she  escaped  from  the  hospital  window  and  crawled 

her  hands  and  knees  the  whole  seven  miles  from  the  hospital  to 
home.  She  found  when  she  arrived  in  the  dawn  that  Walker 
as  \n  his  coffin  .  The  chickens  however  were  a  healthy  brood  Her 
imiration  for  Walker,  the  weak  and  lazy  artist  in  basket  making 
;ver  decreased.  She  treasured  his  best  baskets  to  the  end  of  her 
:e  as  you  and  I  might  treasure  Rembrandts.  Once,  ten  years  after 
e  sat  for  a  whole  day  on  his  grave.  The  old  sexton  growing  con- 
sed  with  years  had  made  a  mistake  and  was  going  to  inter  another 
an  s  wife  on  top  of  Walker.    Meary  stopped  that. 

For  the  last  twenty-six  years  or  so  of  her  life  she  lived  in  the  mud 
It  which  I  had  first  seen  her  enter.    She  went  on  as  before  tying 
>ps    heating  ovens,  picking  up  stones,   keeping  a  hen   or   two 
le  looked  after,  fed  and  nursed— for  th«  love  of  God— a  particu- 


56  The    Little    Review 


larly  disagreeable  old  man  called  Purdey  who  Kad  been  a  London 
cab  driver.  He  sat  all  day  in  a  grandfather's  chair,  grumbling  and 
swearing  at  Meary  whenever  she  came  in.  He  was  eighty-two.  He 
had  no  claim  whatever  upon  her  and  he  never  paid  her  a  penny  of 
money.  She  could  not  have  told  you  why  she  did  it,  but  no  doubt 
it  was  just  the  mothering  instinct. 

So  she  kept  on  going  all  through  life.  She  was  always  cheerful: 
she  had  always  on  her  tongue  some  fragment  of  peasant  wisdom. 
Once,  coming  back  from  market,  she  sat  down  outside  a  public 
house  and  a  soldier  treated  her  to  a  pot  of  beer.  Presently  there 
rode  up  the  Duke  of  Cambridge  in  his  field  marshal's  uniform  and 
beside  him  there  was  the  Shah  of  Persia.  They  were  watching  a 
sham  fight  in  the  neighbourhood.  Meary  raised  her  pot  of  beer 
towards  these  Royal  personages  and  wished  them  health.  They 
nodded  in  return. 

"Well,"  Meary  called  out  to  the  Duke,  "you're  only  your 
mother's  son  like  the  rest  of  us."  Once,  the  Portugese  ambassador 
amiably  telling  her  that,  in  his  language,  bread  was  "pom"  she  ex- 
pressed surprise  but  then  she  added — 

"Oh  well  poor  dear,  when  you're  hungry  you've  got  to  eat  it 
like  the  rest  of  us,  whatever  you  call  it." 

She  was  sorry  for  him  because  he  had  to  call  bread  by  such  ar 
outlandish  name.  She  could  not  think  how  he  remembered  the 
word.  Yet  she  knew  that  Brot,  was  the  German  for  bread  and  Apje. 
for  apples  because,  during  the  Napoleonic  Wars  of  her  youth,  th< 
Hanoverian  Legion  had  garrisoned  that  part  of  the  country.  On« 
of  what  she  called  the  jarman  legions  had  murdered  a  friend  o 
her  mother's  who  had  been  his  sweetheart  and  when  he  was  hung  fo 
it  at  Canterbury^  he  asked  for  Brot  and  Apjel  on  the  scaffold.  Sb 
saw  him  hung,  a'  pleasant  fair  boy,  and  when  she  looked  down  a 
her  hands  she  said  they  were  as  white  as  lard. 

So  she  worked  on  until  she  was  seventy-eight.  One  day  sht 
discovered  a  swelling  under  her  left  breast.  It  gave  her  no  paii 
but  she  wanted  to  know  what  it  was.  So  she  put  a  hot  brick  to  it 
She  knew  that  if  it  was  cancer  that  was  a  bad  thing  to  do,  but  sb 
wanted  to  get  it  settled.  The  swelling  became  worse.  So  shi 
walked  to  the  hospital — the  same  hospital  that  she  had  crawlei 
away  from.  They  operated  on  her  next  morning — and  she  wa 
dead  by  noon.    Her  last  words  were: 

"Who's  going  to  look  after  old  Purdey?" 

She  was  buried  in  the  workhouse  cemetery.    The  number  of  he 


\ 


The    Little    Review  57 


grave  is  1642.    Mr.  Purdey  was  taken  to  the  Union  that  night.    And 
there  he  still  is,  aged  ninety-seven,  a  disagreeable  old  man. 

And  so  we  come  back  to  the  question  of  the  average  woman. 
Was  Meary  Walker  this  person?  I  wonder.  If  so  the  average 
among  women  is  fairly  high.  Yet,  in  her  own  village  nobody 
thought  very  much  of  Meary.  She  was  popular  with  many  people 
and  hated  by  a  few.  Yet,  as  far  as  I  can  say  her  life,  in  each  of  its 
days,  was  as  perfect  as  that  of  my  friend  Mr.  T.  She  never  had  a 
Dcnny  from  me  that  she  had  not  worked  for,  or  never  so  much  as 
pair  of  old  boots  from  anyone  else.  Was  she  then  the  average 
(voman?  I  should  not  like  to  say  that  she  was  not.  For,  in  spite 
3f  all  our  modernity,  still  the  widest  of  all  classes  of  employment  is 
»iven  by  the  land.  There  are  more  peasants  in  the  world  than 
Lliere  are  anything  else.  And  Meary  was  just  a  peasant  woman, 
ittracting  no  particular  notice  from  her  fellows.  On  the  other 
land  there  was  Meary  Spratt  her  bosom  friend. 

Meary  Spratt  was  much  more  like  the  average  woman  of  fic- 
ion.  She  was  decidedly  emotional,  she  was  certainly  not  truthful  : 
ihe  begged,  and  when  she  begged  she  would  scream  and  howl  and 
rell  in  the  highest  of  keys,  pulling  her  gnarled,  rheumatic  fingers 
nto  repulsive  shapes  and  screaming  like  a  locomotive  to  show  how 
nuch  they  pained  her,  or  sobbing  with  the  most  dramatic  emphasis 
vhen  she  related  how  Meary  Walker  had  saved  her  six  little  chil- 
Iren  from  starvation.  On  the  other  hand  she  would  relate,  with  a 
)roper  female  virtue  the  fact— I  fancy  it  may  have  been  true — that, 
it  some  portion  of  her  career  Meary  Walker  had  a  daughter  by 
omebody  who  was  not  Walker  and  that  the  daughter  was  in  service  • 
n  Folkestone.  She  would  also  say  that  Meary  Walker  was  an  arrant 
niser  who  had  saved  up  a  large  fortune  in  bank  notes  wh'ch  were 
luilted  into  her  stays.     She  said  she  had  heard  the  stays  crackle. 

Meary  Spratt  had  nev^r  had  a  child  by  anyone  but  a  husband. 
Jut  then  she  had  had  four  husbands  as  well  as  nineteen  children, 
ill  of  whom  had  lived.  She  is  quite  a  small  woman  with  an  appal- 
ingly  shrill  voice  and  no  doubt  she  is  feminine  in  that  her  tongue 
lever  stops.  In  the  early  morning  among  the  dews  you  will  hear 
icr  voice  .  She  will  be  picking  what  she  calls  musherooms  for  her 
atsup.  You  will  hear  her  all  the  while  like  this  screaming  quite 
Dudly  while  you  listen  from  your  bedroom  window,  she  being  in  the 
eld  beyond  the  hedge  and  it  being  four  o'clock  of  a  very  dewy 
lorning. 


58  The    Little    Review 


"He!  He!  He!"  she  will  scream  "here  is  a  nice  little  om 
A  little  pinky  one!  Now  I'm  going  to  pick  you!  Up  you  come,  ir 
little  darling!  Ah,  doesn't  it  hurt!"  And  then  she  will  give  a  shr 
yell  to  show  the  pain  that  the  musheroom  feels  when  it  is  beii 
picked.  And  then  she  will  continue:  "Oh,  oh  Lord!  Oh  my  po 
shoulders!  Oh!  my  poor  legs!  They  do  fairly  terrify  me  wil 
rhumatiz!      Oh,   oh.  Lord!" 

And  you  will  hear  her  voice  seeming  to  get  shriller  as  it  ge 
fainter  and  she  goes  over  the  marshy  grass,  into  the  mist,  until  si 
comes  on  another  little  pink  one.  She  is  seventy-six  and  it  is  co 
out  on  the  marshes  in  that  October  weather. 

Yes,  she  is  decidedly  feminine.  She  has  only  been  marrit 
three  years  to  Mr.  Spratford — so  she  gets  called  Meary  Sprat 
Mr.  Spratford  was  eighty-two  when  they  married.  Between  the 
they  have  had  thirty  one  children.  And  they  lived  in  a  little  br'i( 
cottage  not  much  larger  than  a  dog  kennel.  When  you  ask  M 
Spratford  why  he  married— Mr.  Spratford  was  a  most  venerab 
looking  peasant,  like  a  Biblical  patriarch,  with  very  white  hair  cm 
ing  round  a  fine  bald  head  and  with  noble  faded  blue  eyes;  at 
when  he  spoke  he  always  gesticulated  nobly  wtih  one  hand  and  u 
tered  the  most  edifying  moral  sentiments.  He  was  extremely  di 
honest  and  had  three  times  been  to  prison  for  robbing  poor  o 
women.  Indeed,  when  I  first  made  his  acquaintance  he  did 
week's  work  for  me,  charged  me  double  prices  and  begged  me  not 
tell  anybody  that  I  had  paid  him  at  all  because  he  was  on  his  club- 
and  this  is  about  the  meanest  crime  that  any  peasant  can  comm 
It  was  an  offence  so  mean  that  even  Meary  Spratford — who  y( 
will  observe  was  a  woman  and  who  would  have  had  no  scruple  at  '<. 
about  pilfering  from  any  member  of  the  quality — even  Meary  Spra 
ford  was  outraged  and  made  him  pay  back  his  club  money  for  th 
week.  She  could  not  bear  to  think  of  the  members  of  the  club  beii 
defrauded,  because  they  were  quite  poor  people.  It  is  true  that  si 
came  to  me  afterwards,  and,  groaning  and  sobbing,  she  tried  to  g 
the  money  out  of  me  to  make  up  for  her  noble  act — ^but  when  yc 
asked  Mr.  Spratford  why  he  married  he  answered: 

"Well,  you  see,  sir,  in  a  manner  of  speaking  us  do  be  vei 
poor  people  and  us  bean't  able  to  afford  more  than  one  blanks 
apiece,  and  one  small  fire  for  each  of  us.  coals  do  be  so  dear."  {Y 
got  all  his  coals  for  nothing  from  the  poor  old  parson  and  so  d: 
Mrs.  Spratt.)  "So  if  we  do  marry  we  do  have  two  blankets  atop  i 
us  at  night  and  we  have  one  big  fire  and  sit  on  either  side  of  it." 


The    Little    Re  view  59 

So  said  Mr.  Spratford.  But  when  it  came  to  his  wife  she 
would  scream  out: 

"Why  did  us  marry?  Why  I  like  to  have  a  man  about  the 
house  and  a  woman  looks  better  like  among  her  neebours  if  she 
do  have  a  husband."  So  that  no  doubt  Mrs.  Spratt  was  feminine 
enough,  just  as  Mr.  Spratford  was  undoubtedly  masculine.  He 
died  raving  on  the  mud  floor  of  his  hut.  His  wife  had  not  the 
strength  to  lift  him  into  bed  and  the  four  men  who  had  held  him 
down  during  the  night  had  had  to  go  to  work  in  the  morning.  He 
tore  his  bald  head  to  ribbons  with  his  nails  and  Mrs.  Spratt  for 
years  afterwards  could  make  anybody  sick  with  her  dramatic  re- 
hearsals of  how  he  died.  When  she  was  really  worked  up  over  this 
narration  she  would  even  scratch  her  own  forehead  until  it  bled.  So 
perhaps  she  was  really  a  more  womanly  woman  than  Mrs.  Walker. 
She  kept  on  going  just  the  same:  she  is  still  keeping  on  going.  But 
^e  made  much  more  noise  about  it.  That,  I  believe,  is  what  is 
demanded  of  man's  weaker  vessels. 

But  even  in  the  village,  Meary  Spratt  was  regarded  as  unusu- 
ally loquacious  whereas  Meary  Walker  attracted,  as  I  have  said,  no 
attention  at  all.  It  was  as  if  Meary  Walker  was  just  a  woman 
whereas  Meary  Spratt  was  at  least  a  super -woman,  or  as  if  she  were 
a  woman  endowed  with  the  lungs  of  a  locomotive  whistl,  Indeed, 
I  am  certain  that  anyone  there  would  have  told  you  that  Meary 
Walker  was  just  an  average  woman. 


THE   READER   CRITIC 

Divagations 

Marsden  Hartley,  Taos,  New  Mexico  : 

I  suppose  I  must  count  myself  lover  of  stylistic  radiance.  It  is 
not  enough  for  me  to  have  sun;  I  want  the  distribution  of  the 
prismatic  facet,  the  irridescence  wrapped  around  the  sphere.  There 
must  be  the  web  for  the  dew  to  hang  on,  there  must  be  a  free  sky 
for  an  avid  moon.  This  cannot,  I  think,  be  achieved  without  a  rigid 
adherence   to   the   significance   of   essential  values. 

Between  the  mania  of  a  Flaubert  for  exatitude.  and  the  monosyl- 
labic detail  of  a  James  Joyce  there  is,  as  one  may  observe,  a  wide 
divergence.  I  want  for  myself  most  of  all  the  poetry  of  a  scene,  and 
poetry  is  just  as  much  a  well  placed  "good  morning"  as  it  is  a  wan- 


6o  The    Little    Rev  ie 


w 


'lering  ode.  I  think  it  is  well  for  the  writer  of  real  purposes  to  es- 
'■.ape  the  less  interesting-  faculty  for  journalistic  rendition,  as  it  is 
well  for  the  over-paid  reporter  to  elaborate  on  the  fact  not  present. 
The  successful  reporter  is  not  one  who  tells  the  truth  in  conjunction 
with  fact,  he  is  that  one  who  can  weave  a  labyrinth  of  romantic  in- 
.sinuation  around  an  improbability. 

For  the  novelist,  journalistic  voluminousness  is  possibly  a  valu- 
able adjunct  to  the  swelling  out  of  facility  as  well  as  of  the  page. 
Poetry  has  the  greater  value  to  one  who  would  write  well  .  It  wouh! 
'.each  him  brevity,  compactness.  A  narrative  of  a,  page's  length  i; 
Frost  is  as  significant  a  rendetion  of  its  theme  as  is  a  chapter  of 
Balzac.  It  is  more  important  that  the  artist  know  exactly  to  the 
hair  his  own  limitations  as  well  as  his  excellences.  Verhaeren's  page 
or  two  on  his  own  Belgique  is  as  telling  as  an  entire  play  of  Shakes- 
peare on  England,  excepting  of  course  that  Verhaeren  is  what  his 
Belgique  was,  and  Shakespeare  is  the  world. 

Essences  are  volumes  of  another  degree  merely.  The  atmos- 
phere of  a  story  should  be  just  as  solid  as  the  action.  We  should 
know  the  teacup  on  the  kitchen  table  of  a  labourer's  family,  just  as 
we  should  know  the  cataclysm  in  his  soul.  It  seems  to  me  the  novel 
should  be  just  as  mathematical  as  the  good  poem,  or  the  excelleni 
Ijit  of  prose.  It  may  be  the  novel  is  harder  both  in  terms  of  difficulty 
as  well  as  consistency,  that  is  to  say  when  psychological  inevitabil- 
ity is  concerned.  Not  a  term  involved  which  does  not  swing  directlj 
between  the  moment  and  its  creator.  Outside  of  the  fine  stylist; 
you  get  so  much  of  slipping  over  the  surface  of  the  scene.  Jane 
Austen,  Thomas  Hardy,  and  Henry  James  are  certainly  various,  bu) 
you  get  the  sense  of  consequence  in  them.  The  Joyce  species  ol 
entertainment  is  a  restive  feathering  of  the  acid  upon  a  not  too  ex- 
pansive plate.  You  are  fed  with  a  fascination  of  little  touches-  It 
is  Messionierism  in  words.  Cross-hatching  which  has  not  the  dis- 
tinction of  Rembrandt.  There  is  a  humoristic  tracery  in  Joyce  which 
will  amuse  any  ardent  lover  of  the  touch.  T  wonder  if  we  do  not 
hear  the  strumming  of  the  mosquitoe's  wing  a  little  excessively  in 
Joyce.  Is  the  space  around  things  large  enough?  Does  he  care  for 
entirety  as  much  as  the  whimsie  en  passant?  Is  it  not  a  too  close 
relationship  of  tense  values.  I  have  only  "Ulysses-Episode  IV"  to 
begin  my  premise.  I  know  one  who  makes  an  exquisite  drawing 
solely  by  means  of  the  point  of  the  pen.  He  is  a  large  amiable  per- 
son,  who   finds   a   hair  from   an    elephant's   tail   around   his   wrist   an 


The    Little    Review  6i 


ngaging  preoccupancy.  1  find  it  charming  in  suggestion  also,  for 
lerc   is   the   wliole   jungle    in    that    small    brown    strand    tickling   his 

rist.  I  find  the  little  thing  circling  around  a  portion  of  a  very  big 
miling  fellow  a  pleasant  bit  of  fun.  But  these  dots  made  by  the 
oint  of  the  pen  are  placed,  as  far  as  I  can  tell,  with  scientific  ac- 
suracy  under  the  force  of  an  expensive  and  spacious  magnifying 
(lass,  and  after  two  years  of  labour  to  a  finality  in  dots,  what  is 
lere  is  but  the  passing  of  an  afternoon  cloud  beyond  a  spreading 
ak,  the  which  comes  forth  as  an  accompaniment  to  a  dull  poem  on 
le  page  of  a  correct  magazine.  Dot  for  dot  is  more  what  I  am 
linking,  is  the  case  of  Joyce;  Diirer  used  dots  also,  and  a  host  of 
ery  vivid  lines,  and  his  plates  weie  mostly  small.  What  about  the 
late  of  Joyce.  Is  there  the  expanse  in  it,  is  there  encompassed,  or 
oes  Joyce  spread  the  masses  esewhere  in  his  theme.  We  had  Seu- 
at  with  his  very  intelligent  pointillism,  a  fine  artist,  and  the  only 
istinguished  one  in  that  field  of  discovery,  as  superior  to  Signac  and 
ross  as  Cross  is  superior  to  Signac.  Is  Joyce  a  Seurat  of  a  Signac 
1  wordy  dots?  I  have,  I  confess,  a  proud  admiration  for  the  flaw- 
;ss  line  of  Ingres,  and  the  dignity  of  Mass  in  Courbet,  the  superb 
rchestration  in  the  arrangements  of  Delacroix.  I  like  to  excess, 
le  swinging  into  untouched  ethers  of  Francis  Thompson,  who  has 

think  given  more  of  the  floridness  of  frigidity  than  any  other  poet 
f  modernity.  The  sanitillance  that  trickles  out  of  Henry  James  at 
is  best,  and  the  incomparable  fluidity  and  lucent  earthiness  of  his 
rother  William  James,  cover  my  moments  with  delight.  But  T  wt)n- 
er  if  novelists  outside  the  revolutionary  academic  crew  care  much 
or  stylistic  radiance.  I  wonder  if  being  too  near  the  diamond  does 
ot  shatter  its  dust.  Does  the  ruby  glow  with  an  eye  fastened  on  its 
kin,  or  the  emerald  send  up  seabottoms  of  delicious  fancy  with  a 
ot  finger  on  its  face.  There  are  so  many  sprightly  indications  in 
oyce,  almost  too  much  of  vividness,  which  in  the  presence  of  so 
luch  uncoloured  production,  might  seem  unjust. 

These  are  skimmings  of  reflection  of  an  August  afternoon,  where 
he  desert  shines  like  a  sheet  of  scorched  metal. 

(Language  is  after  a  something  wonderful  in  itself,  and  as  for  the 
erfect  wor.d  it  all  but  sinks  in   space  for  its  rarity. 

Is  not  the  average  line  of  the  acknowledged  story-telled  a  dullard, 
s  to  its  propensities  for  initiation?  Is  not  plot  the  demon  of  the 
ream?  Should  there  not  be  ar  kind  bf  poetry  of  line  in  the  unfold- 
ng  of  experience,  as  well  as  the  giant  of  edges?     A  good  drawing 


62  The  Little  Review 

is  that  one  which  holds  the  form  consistently  between  its  outlines. 
Artistry  comes  in  fullness.  Seurat  was  successful.  Perhaps  Joyce  is, 
also.     Joyce   amuses.     Seurat   satisfies.  , 

From    California 

July  issue  received. 

We  cannot  make  any  helpful  suggestions  to  Ezra  about  the  rent, 
but  he  can  solve  his  board  by  eating  the  goose  he  has  cooked  for 
himself. 

Anxiously, 

One-tenth  of  a  score  of  Rural  Rumblers. 

On    the   American    Number 

E,  P.,  London : 

Szukalski  drawings  in  the  June  Little  Review  show,  in  two  cases, 
vigour  of  imagination.  Error  is  in  that  their  interest  does  not  lie  in 
ihe  actual  form  but  in  their  ideation.  At  first  glance  they  appear  to 
be  more  skillful  than  they  are-  They  cry  out  "we  are  masterly'',  but 
on  closer  examination  this  statement  proves  to  be  an  exaggeration. 
The  more  familiar  the  eye  becomes  with  them  they  less  do  they 
validate  their  first  statement. 

The  Angel  of  Rebellion,  no  good;  Man  Following  his  Principles, 
a  post-Beardsley,  not  valuable;  Men  Going  to  Church,  interest  of  many 
newspaper  caricature;  Different  Jew,  "old  master",  but  doesn't  quite 
come  off;  next  drawing  of  dog,  no  value;  Man  and  his  Conscience, 
interesting  for  about  ten  minute's  close  study  then  gradually  recedes; 
"Med\isa"  interesting  imagination  in  the  conception  of  the  eyes. 

Both  the  last  two  say  something.  Both  would  increasingly  bore 
one  if  hung  up  on  one's  wall.  All  drawing  which  does  not  have  its 
centre  of  interest  in  the  actual  form,  in  the  actual  arrangement  of 
lines,  planes,  solids,  wanes  rapidly  in  its  power  to  interest. 

Szukalski  has  indubitable  ability  and  his  future  work  should,  or 
at  least  could,  be  of  interest. 

The  drawings  do  not  show  formal  invention;  old  cliche  devices 
still  in  use.  Vide  proportion  of  black  and  grey  in  background  to 
Man  and  Conscience. 

Szukalski  neither  dead  nor  asleep,  nor  yet  part  of  the  world's 
art    (so   far  as    can   be    discerned    from    these    drawings.)    .      Faculty 


The    Little     Review  63 

splayed  in  tliesc  drawings  neither  unique  nor  original,  nor,   indeed, 
A-essively  rare. 

Interest  in  the  drawings  leaks  perceptively  in  half  an  hour,  and 
Miiljletely  disappears  at   the. end   of   forty-hve  minutes. 

They   catch    the   eye.     That   is   all    democracy   asks   of   any   "art" 
[liduct. 

They  are  not  original  work.     This  is  not  an  utter  condemnation. 
1  good  artists  pass  through  a  borrowing  and  copying  phase. 
Turbytill  has  perhaps  the  cell-nucleus  of  something  about  which 

ook  of  poems  might  form  itself. 

The  most  pernicious  symptom  of  democracy  is  the  growing  cla- 
)ur  for  the  universal  distribution  of  ignorance.  Mr.  Solon  does 
t  join  in   this  clamour,   but  he  rather  implies  that  I   have  insisted 

all  authors  knowing  the  classics.     At  least  his  readers  might  eas- 

mislake  him  to  mean  that  I  had  said  this;  that  I  had  "insisted". 
I  have  merely  said  that  young  men  hoping  to  leave  permanent 
trks  are  rather  stupid  not  to  enlighten  themselves. 

The  masters  have  seldom  been  illiterates.  Shakespeare's  "wood- 
tes"  are  a  fiction   of  that  pompous  ass   Milton.     Shakespeare   had 

Ovid    from    Golding    (excellent    medium),    he    had    his    antiquity 
m  North's  "Plutarch",  he  had  great  erudition  from  Florio's  "Mon- 
jne".     With   these   three   books   on   his   shel   no  man   need   be   lack- 
in   "literacy". 

Dante  was  a  savant.  Chancer,  likewise.  Villon  had  escaped 
m  the  university  of  Paris  and  makes  a  constant  parade  of  his  tags. 
:ullus  presumably  knew  more  Greek  (or  knew  what  he  knew  with 
ater   intensity)    than   any   Roman   of  his   time.     Heine   is   perhaps 

least  savant,  yet  he  had  happened  on  Bertrans  de  Born  at  a  time 
en  troubadours  were  less  known  than  at  present. 

~ut  I  have  never  said  that  all  authors  should  be  savants,  or  that 
y  should  all  read  the  classics. 

The  last  scald,  by  the  Kennedy-Frasers  in   Bebbecuba,  treasured 

knowledge,  he  sang  "Aillte"  to  music  which  I  take  to  be  eleven 
turies  old  (at  lowest  estimate,  and  3000  years  old  very  possibly). 

left  the  cottage  when  parvenu  labour  songs,  spinning  songs 
■e  sung.  He  held  his  caste  without  any  comprehension  by  an 
ience. 

•But  I  have  never  said  that  all  authors  need  know  the  classics. 
A   critic   however  is   less   likely   to   be   taken   in   by   literary   and 


64  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


artistic  shell-games  if  he  have  his  mind  decently  stored  with  master- 
work  vyhich  will  serve  him  for  comparison.  The  more  of  it  he  has  in 
his  head  the  quicker  his  eye  and  perception;  the  more  speedily  will 
he  see  the  germ  of  corruption,  the  ineluctable  signs  of  impermanence. 
The  American  press  and  public  on  art  is  the  merest  jabber. 
The  American  commentator  lapses  into  cant  phrase  as  indis- 
criminately as  a  peasant  into  proverbs.  We  have  indeed  a  castrated 
peasantry,  able  to  read,  strained  through  a  public-school  colander 
and  dessicated  by   ten-cent   cultural   formulae. 

Some  of  Solon's  remarks  ^re  excellent.  There  are  also  some 
good  sentences  in  Bill  Williams.  The  man  who  does  not  want  tc 
produce  permanent  work  is  outside  the  scope  of  our  consideration 
he  should  go  back  to  pale  spittle  of  Hen.  Van  Dyke. 

And  again  what  have  we  to  do  with  Romain  Rolland,  or  othe 
Bloomsbury  fad  six  years  late? 

The  current-events-clubs  are  always  getting  these  crazes.  Moth 
ing  but  some  sort  of  habit  of  close  comparison,  of  close  inspectic 
of  the  actual  text  of  authors  themeselves  in  contradistinction  to  di 
luted  reviews,  will  be  any  use  in  these  matters. 

Barbusse  is  Catulle  Mendes'  son-in-law.  He  won  the  prize  c 
"concours  de  poesie  de  I'Echo  de  Paris"  in  1893;  at  the  age  of  nm( 
teen.  (One  should  not  treasure  this  up  against  him.)  .  He  edite 
"Je  sais  tout".  He  published  a  volume  of  poems,  "Pleureuses",  1 
1895.  In  "Le  Feu"  he  is  more  topical  and  therefore  more  wide! 
known.     As  writing  it  does  not  improve  on 

LA    LETT RE 
Je  t'ecris  et  la  lampe  ecoute. 
L'horloge  attend  a  petits  coups; 
Je  vais  fermer  les  yeux  sans  doute 
Et  je  vais  m'endormir  de  nous  ..... 
La  lampe  est  douce  et  j'ai  la  fievre; 
On  n'entend  que  ta  voix.  ta  voix  ... 
J'ai  ton  nom  qui  rit  sur  ma  levre 
Et  ta  caresse  est  dans  mes  doigts. 
J'ai  de  la  douceur  de  naguere; 
Ton  pauvre  coeur  sanglote  en  moi; 
Et  mi-revenant,  je  sais  guere 
*  Si  c'est  moi  qui  t'ecris,  ou  toi  .  .  .  . 

(from   "Pleureuses",    1895.) 
He  has  very  considearble  depiction  in  his  prose. 


EGMONT  H.  ARENS,  who  keeps  the  Washington 
Spare  Bookshop  at  Seventeen  West  Eighth  Street, 
New  York,  announces  that  he  will  send  free  to  any- 
Dody  his  Catalogue  of  "BOOKS  THAT  ARE  LITER- 
\TURE"  containing  a  List  of  Best  Titles  in  Russian 
literature,  Poetry,  Drama,  Psychoanalysis,  Sex, 
:ssays  and  Modern  Fiction.  Your  mail  order  for  any 
5ook  obtainable  in  New  York  will  be  filled  immedi- 
tely.    Be  sure  to  visit  him  when  you  are  in  town. 


SOLVE  YOUR  FOOD  PROBLEM 

by  Eating  at  the  Strunsky  Restaurants 
Good  cooking— pleasant  envirnments — 

liberal  portions — moderate  prices. 

"THE  WASHINGTON      "THE  STUYVESANT 
SQUARE  RESTAURANT"   SQUARE  RESTAURANT" 

19  West  Eighth  Street.  201    Second   Ave. 

"THREE   STEPS  DOWN"  "THE    STUYVESANT 

19  West  Eighth  Street.  CAFETERIA" 

Between   5th    &  6th   Avenue,  2°^    Second   Avenue, 

CAFETERIA  (Down  Stairs). 

19  West  Eighth  Street.  ^''^''"    '^'^    ^    '^'^    ^'''''- 

(Upstairs)  Phone   Stuyvcsant  3379, 

Phone  Stuyvesant  1880  Open    for    lunch,    dinner    and 
Open  for  lunch  and  dinner.  evenings. 


THE  STRADIVARIUS  OF   PIANOS 


313   FIFTH   AVENUE 
NEW   YORK 


THE  BERLITZ  SCHOOL  OF  LANGUAGES 

Head  Office  —New  York,  28-30  West  34th  Street 
Brooklyn  218-220  Livingston  Street 

Washington     Philadelphia.    Baltimore,    Boston,    Chicago,    Pittsburgh,    Detroit. 

Orange     Pari^  London,    Petrograd,    Rome,    Madrid,    Lisbon,  ^russeU. 

Sva,  Havana,  Buenos  Aires,  Rio  Janeiro,  Montevideo,  Cairo. 

Algiers,    Christiania,    Amsterdam,    Copenhagen,    Etc. 

OVER  300   BRANCHES   IN   THE   LEADING   CITIES   of  THE  WORLD 

PUPILS    TRAVEONG^MAY^TRA^^^^^^  THEIB 

SUPERIOR  NATIVE  TEACHERS 

Bv  the  Berlitz  Method  Students  learn  not  only  to  read  and  write,  but  aUc 
isy  tne  ^^^uj^pg^sTAND    and   to    SPEAK    the   foreign    languages. 

Terms  may  be  begun  at  any  time  —  Trial   Lesson  free 

Lessons  Privately  and  in  Classes,  Day 
and  Evenings,  at  School  or  Residence 

RECENT  AWARDS: 

Paris   Exposition,    1900,   Gold   Medals;    Lille   Exposition,    1902,   Grand   Prize 

Zurk^  ETosiion,'  1902,    Gold   Medal;    St.    Louis   Exposition     1904. 

Grand  Vize;   Liege  Exposition..  1905     Grand   P"«  ULojidon 

Exposition,  1908,  Grand  Prize:   Brussels  1910,  Hor* 

Concours;    Turin    1911,   Hors   Concourt. 


A  MAGAZINE  OF   THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO  COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


even  Poems,  by  William  Butler  Yeats 
oems  and  drawings  by  Jean  de  Bosschere 


THE   LITTLE  REVIE^ 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  THE   OTHERS 


OCTOBER,    1918 

Seven   Poems  ll'illiani   Butler    Veati, 

De  Bosschere's  Study  of  Elskamp         Esra  Poum 
Prose    Poems  John    Rodke:, 

Poems  Jean  de  Bosscher] 

Breviora  Ezra    Poim 

Note  upon   Fashions   in   Criticism    /,  H.  Le  Monie 
Ulysses,    Episode    VII.  James  Joyc 

Albert  Mockel  and   "La  Wallonie"  E 

The    Reader    Critic 

Copyright,    1918,    by   Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,    Editor 
EZRA    POUND,   London  Editor 

JULES    ROM  A  INS,    French    Editor 

Foreign  office: 

5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London    IV.   <V, 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  \2/-  a  yea 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York.  N.  Y., 

under  the  act  March  j,  i8yg. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  OCTOBER   1918  No.  6 

SEVEN     POEMS 
William    Butler    Yeats 
To     a     Young     Girl 

My  dear,  my  dear,  I  know 

More  than  another 

What  makes  your  heart  beat  so; 

Not  even  your  own  mother 

Can  know  it  as  I  know, 

Who  broke  my  heart  for  her 

When  the  wild  thought, 

That  she  denies 

And  has  forgot, 

Set  all  her  blood  astir 

And  glittered  in  her  eyes. 

A     S  0  n  g 

I  thought  no  more  was  needed 
Youth  to  prolong 
Than  dumb  bell  and  foil 
To  keep  the  body  young. 
Oh  who  could  have  foretold 
That  the  heart  grows  old? 

Though  I  have  many  words 
What  woman's  satisfied? 
I  am  no  longer  faint 
Because  at  her  side. 
Oh  who  could  have  foretold 
.That  the  heart  grows  old? 


The    Little     Review 


I  have  not  lost  desire 

But  the  heart  that  I  had, 

I  thought  'twould  burn  my  body 

Laid  on  the  death  bed. 

But  who  could  have  foretold 

That  the  heart  grows  old? 

Solomon    to    Sheba 

Sang  Solomon  to  Sheba 
And  kissed  her  dusky  face, 
All  day  long  from  midday 
We  have  talked  in  the  one  place, 
All  day  long  from  shadowless  noon 
We  have  gone  round  and  round 
In  the  narrow  theme  of  love 
Like  an  old  horse  in  a  pound. 

To  Solomon  sang  Sheba 
Planted  on  his  knees, 
If  you  had  broached  a  matter 
That  might  the  learned  please, 
You  had  before  the  sun  had  thrown 
Our  shadows  on  the  ground 
Discovered  that  my  thoughts,  not  it, 
Are  but  a  narrow  pound. 

Sang  Solomon  to  Sheba 
And  kissed  her  Arab  eyes, 
There's  not  a  man  or  woman 
Born  under  the  skies 
Dare  match  in  learning  with  us  two, 
And  all  day  long  we  have  found 
There's  not  a  thing  but  love  can  make 
The  world  a  narrow  pound. 


The    Little     Review 


The    Living    Beauty 

I'll  say  and  maybe  dream  I  have  drawn  content, 

Seeing  that  time  has  frozen  up  the  blood 

The  wick  of  youth  being  burned  and  the  oil  spent, 

From  beauty  that  is  cast  out  of  a  mould 

In  bronze,  or  that  in  dazzling  marble  appears, 

Appears,  and  when  we  have  gone  is  gone  again. 

Being  more  indifferent  to  our  solitude 

Than  'twere  an  apparition.    0  heart  we  are  old  : 

The  living  beauty  is  for  younger  men 

We  cannot  pay  its  tribute  of  wild  tears. 

Under    the    Round    Tower 

"Although  I'd  lie  lapped  vip  in  linen 
A  deal  I'd  sweat  and  little  earn 
If  I  should  live  as  lives  the  neighbours" 
Cried  the  beggar,  Billy  Bryne. 
"Stretch  bones  till  the  daylight  come 
On  great-grandfather's  battered  tomb." 

Upon  a  grey  old  battered  tombstone 

In  Glendalough  beside  the  stream, 

Where  the  O'Bryrnes  and  Byrnes  are  buried, 

He  stretched  his  bones  and  fell  in  a  dream 

Of  sun  and  moon  that  a  good  hour 

Bellowed  and  pranced  in  the  round  tower. 

Of  golden  king  and  silver  lady 
Bellowing  up  and  bellowing  round 
Till  toes  mastered  a  sweet  measure 
Mouth  mastered  a  sweet  sound; 
Prancing  round  and  prancing  up 
Until  they  pranced  upon  the  top. 


The    Little    Revi  ew 


That  golden  king  and  that  wild  lady 

Sang  till  stars  began  to  fade 

Hands  gripped  in  hands,  toes  close  together, 

Hairs  spread  on  the  wind  they  made ; 

That  lady  and  that  golden  king 

Could  like  a  brace  of  blackbirds  sing. 

"It's  certain  that  my  luck  is  broken" 

That  rambling  jailbird  Billy  said, 

"Before  nightfall  I'll  pick  a  pocket 

And  snug  it  in  a  feather  bed. 

I  cannot  find  the  peace  of  home 

On  great  grandfather's  battered  tomb." 

March  igi8. 

Tom    O'    Roughley 

"Though  logic  choppers  rule  the  town, 
And  every  man  and  maid  and  boy 
Has  marked  a  distant  object  down, 
An  aimless  joy  is  a  pure  joy," 
Or  so  did  Tom  O'Roughley  say 
That  saw  the  surges  running  by, 
"And  wisdom  is  a  butterfly 
And  not  a  gloomy  bird  of  prey. 

"If  little  planned,  is  little  sinned 
But  little  need  the  grave  distress. 
What's  dying  but  a  second  wind? 
How  but  in  zig-zag  wantoness 
Could  trumpeter  Michael  be  so  brave"? 
Or  something  of  .that  sort  he  said. 
"And  if  my  dearest  friend  were  dead 
I'd  dance  a  measure  on  his  grave." 


February  i6.   igi8. 


The    Little    Review 


A    Prayer    on    going    into     my     House 

God  grant  a  blessing  on  this  tower  and  cottage 

And  on  my  heirs,  if  all  remain  unspoiled, 

No  table,  or  chair  or  stool  not  simple  enough 

For  shepherd  lads  in  Galilee;  and  grant 

That  I  myself  for  portions  of  the  year 

May  handle  nothing  and  set  eyes  on  nothing 

But  what  the  great  and  passionate  have  used 

Throughout  so  many  varying  centuries 

We  take  it  for  the  norm ;  yet  should  I  dream 

Sinbad  the  sailor's  brought  a  painted  chest, 

Or  image,  from  beyond  the  Loadstone  Mountain 

That  dream  is  a  norm;  and  should  some  limb  of  the  devil 

Destroy  the  view  by  cutting  down  an  ash 

That  shades  the  road,  or  setting  up  a  cottage 

Planned  in  a  government  office,  shorten  his  life. 

Manacle  his  soul  upon  the  Red  Sea  bottom. 

DE    BOSSCHERE'S    STUDY    OF    ELSKAMP  * 

Ezra  Pound 

I  CONFESSED  in  my  February  essay  my  inability  to  make  any- 
thing of  Max  Elskamp's  poetry,  and  I  have  tacitly  confessed 
m.y  inability  to  find  any  formula  for  hawking  De  Bosschere's  own 
verse  to  any  public  of  my  aquaintance;  De  Bosschere's  study  of  Els- 
kamp,  however,  requires  no  advocacy;  I  do  not  think  it  even  requires 
to  be  a  study  of  Max  Elskamp;  it  drifts  as  quiet  canal  water  ;  the 
protagonist  may  or  not  be  a  real  man. 

"Ici,  la  solitude  est  plus  acentuee:  souvent,  pendant  de  longues. 
minutes,  les  rues  sont  desertes.  .  .  .  Les  portes  ne  semblent  pas,  ainsi 
que  dans  les  grandes  villes,  s'ouvrir  sur  un  poumon  de  vie.  et  etre 
une  cellule  vivante  de  la  rue.  Au  contraire,  toutes  sont  fermees. 
Aussi  bien,  les  fagades  de  ce  quartier  sont  pareilles  aux  murs  borgnes. 
Un  mince  ruban  de  ciel  roux  et  gris,  a  peine  bleu  au  printemps,  de- 


*  "  Max  Elskamp" ;  essai  par  Jean  De  Bossc/iere,  Bibliotheque 
de  I'Occidcnt,  17  rue  Eble,  Paris,  jr.  3.50. 


The    Little    Review 


coupe  les  pignons,  se  tend  sur  le  mardhe  desert  et  sur  le  puits  pro- 
fond  des  cours." 

From  this  Antwerp,  De  Bosschere  derives  his  subject,  as  Gau- 
tier  his  "Albertus"  from 

Un  vieux  bourg  flamand  tel  que  peint  Teniers; 
trees  bathing  in  water. 

"Son  univers  etait  limite  par:  'le  grand  peuplier  ';  une  statue 
de  Pomone,  'le  grand  rocher',  et  *la  grand  greniuille';  ceci  etait 
un  coin  touffu  oii  il  y  avait  de  I'eau  et  ou  il  ne  vit  jamais  qu'une  seule 
grenouille,  qu'il  croyait  imlmortelle".  De  Bosschere's  next  vision  of 
Elskamp  is  when  his  subject  is  pointed  out  as  "le  poete  decadent", 
for  no  apparent  reason  save  that  he  read  Mallarme  at  a  time  when 
Antwerp  did  not.  The  study  breaks  into  a  cheerful  grin  when  Els- 
kamp tells  of  Malilarme's  one  appearance  in  the  sea-port: 

"Le  bruit  et  les  cris  qui  furent  pousses  pendant  la  conference  de 
Mallarme.  I'arreterent  plusieurs  fois.  L'opinion  du  public  sur  sa 
causerie  est  contenue  en  ces  quelques  mots,  dits  par  un  general  re- 
traite,  grand  joueur  de  billard,  et  qui  du  reste  ne  fit  qu'une  courte 
absence  de  la  salle  de  jeu.  pour  ecouter  quelques  phrases  du  poete. 
'Cet  homme  est  ivre  ou  fou  ',  dit  il  fort  haut,  en  quittant  la  salle, 
ou  son  jugement  fit  loi.  Anvers,  malgre  un  leger  masque  de  snob- 
isme,  qui  pourrait  tromper,  n'a  pas  change  depuis.  Mallarme,  meme 
pour  les  a  vertis,  est  toujours  I'homme  ivre  ou  fou." 

The  billard  player  is  the  one  modern  touch  in  the  book;  for  the 
rest  Elskamp  sails  with  sea-captains,  apparently  in  sailing  ships  to 
Constantinople,  or  perhaps  one  should  call  it  Byzantium.  He  reads 
Juan  de  la  Cruz  and  Young's  Night  Thoughts,  and  volumes  of  de- 
monology.  in  the  properly  dim  library  of  his  maternal  grandfather. 
"Sa  passion  en  rhetorique  fut  pour  Longfellow,  il  traduisait  "Song 
of  (sic)  Hiawatots.  '  " 

The  further  one  penetrates  into  De  Bosschere's  delightful  nar- 
rative the  less  real  is  the  hero;  the  less  he  needs  to  be  real.  A  phan- 
tom has  been  called  out  of  De  Foe's  period,  delightful  phantom,  tak- 
ing on  the  reality  of  the  fictitious;  in  the  end  the  author  has  created 
a  charming  figure,  but  I  am  as  far  as  ever  from  making  head  or  tail 
of  the  verses  attributed  to  this  creation.  I  have  had  a  few  hours' 
delightful  reading.  I  have  loitered  along  slow  canals,  behind  a  small 
window  sits  Elskamp  doing  something  I  do  not  in  the  least  under- 
stand. 


The    Little    Review 


II 

So  was  I  at  the  end  of  the  first  division  "Sur  la  Vie"  de  Max 
Elskamp.  The  second  division,  concerned  with  "Oeuvre  et  Vie",  but 
raised  again  the  questions  that  had  face  1  me  in  reading  Elskamp's 
printed  work.  He  has  an  undercurrent,  an  elernent  everywhere  pres- 
ent, differentiating  his  poems  from  other  men's  poems  .  De  Bos- 
schere  scarcely  helps  me  to  name  it.  The  third  division  of  the  book, 
at  first  reading,  nearly  quenched  the  curiosity  and  the  interest  aroused 
by  the  first  two  thirds  .  On  second  reading  I  thought  better  of  it. 
Elskamp,  plunged  in  the  middle  ages,  in  what  seems  almost  an 
atrophy,  as  much  as  an  atavism,  became  a  little  more  plausible.  (For 
what  is  it  worth,  I  read  the  chapter  upon  a  day  of  ailmost  complete 
exhaustion) . 

"Or,  quand  la  vision  lache  comme  une  proie  videe 
le  saint,  il  demeure  avec  les  hommes." 
"Entre  le  voyant  et  ceux  qui  le  sanctifient  il  y  a  un 
precipice  insondable.  Seul  I'individu  est  beatific  par  sa 
croyance;  mais  il  ne  peut  Vutiliser  au  tempore!  ni  la 
partager  avec  les  hommes,  et  c'est  peut-etre  la  forme  uni- 
que de  la  justice  sur  terre." 

The  two  sentences  give  us  perhaps  the  tone  of  De  Bosschere's 
critique  "Sur  le  Mysticisme"  of  Elskamp. 

It  is  however  not  in  De  Bosschere,  but  in  La  Wallonie  that  I 
found  the  clue  to  this  author    : 

Consolatrice    des    Affliges 

Et  ITiiver  m'a  donne  la  main, 

J'ai  la  main  d'Hiver  dans  les  mains, 

et  dans  ma  tete,  au  loin,  il  brule 
les  vieux  etes  de  canicule; 

et  dans  mes  yeux,  en  candeurs  lentes, 
tres  blanchement  il  fait  des  tentes, 

dans  mes  yeux  il  fait  des  Sicile, 
puis  des  lies,  encore  des  iles. 

Et  c'est   tout  un  voyage  en  rond 
trop  vite  pour  la  guerison 


The    Little    Review 


a  tous  les  pays  ou  Ton  meurt 

au  long  cours  des  mers  et  des  hemes; 

et  c'est  tout  un  voyage  au  vent 
sur  les  vaisseaux  de  mes  lits  blancs 

qui  houlent  avec  des  etoiles 
a  I'entour  de  toutes  les  voiles. 

or  j'ai  le  gout  de  mer  aux  levres 
comma  une  rancoeur  de  genievre 

bu  pour  la  tres  mauvaise  orgie 
des  departs  dans  les  tabagies; 

puis  ce  pays  encore  me  vient: 
un  pays  de  neiges  sans  fin.  .  .  . 

Marie  des  bonnes  couvertures, 
faites-y  la  neige  moins  dure 

et  courir  moins  cdmme  des  lieres 

mes  mains  sur  mes  draps  blancs  de  fievre. 

—  Max  Elskamp  in  "La  Wallonie",  1892. 

The  poem  appears  in  Van  Bever  and  Leautaud's  anthology  and 
there  may  be  no  reason  for  my  not  having  thence  received  it;  but 
there  is,  for  all  that,  a  certain  value  in  finding  a  man  among  his  na- 
tive surroundings,  and  in  finding  Elskamp  at  home,  among  his  con- 
temporaries, I  gained  first  the  advantage  of  comprehension. 


The    Little    Review 


PROSE     POEMS 

John     Rodker 

Theseus 

WHEN  the  brass  door  of  the  labyrinth  clanged  behind  him  he 
was  in  darkness.  The  noise  reverberated  in  his  ears  and 
grew  fainter,  like  an  omen  called  from  hill-top  to  hill-top  till  it  died 
ten  thousand  miles  into  the  heart  of  a  continent.  He  waited  for  tiie 
last  echo  to  fade;  for  the  hollow  sound  lay  about  him  like  a  wild 
beast's  eyes.  But  however  faint  and  ultimate  the  hullo-ing  grew, 
always  further  and  fainter  and  more  ominous,  another  echo  woke. 
He  waited  an  eternity.  The  last  remote  vibration  died .  He  put 
one  foot  forward:  stealthily  and  so  faintly  that  an  effort  to  strain 
his  ears  to  catch  the  sound,  seemed  to  burst  a  blood-vessel  deep  in 
his  brain;  another  echo  awoke.  He  could  not  stand  it.  "Haia"  he 
shouted  into  the  dark,  "Haia"  :  determined  to  kill  forever  that 
globular  and  staring  echo.  The  sound  went  crashing  along  the  dark 
galleries,  and  came  spitting  and  crashing  back  to  him  like  thunder, 
and  ready  to  bring  the  walls  down  about  him. 

He  was  afraid  and  lifted  his  shield  above  his  head. 

"Mother",  he  cried,  instinctively. 

He  began  to  go  forward.     His  feet  made  no  sound:  he  could 
see  nothing.    When  he  touched  the  wall  he  drew  his  hand  away  : 
it  was  wet  and  slimy  and  felt  like  a  snake's  skin.    Sometimes  he 
turned  right-angles,  following  the  walls.    It  did  not  matter. 

He  tried  not  to  think  of  the  approaching  encounter,  so  that 
he  might  reserve  his  strength,  but  in  its  place  he  only  saw  Ariadne 
whom  he  hated.  He  tried  to  think  of  the  girl  he  had  left  behind, 
but  her  face  had  grown  vague  and  her  eyes  ghostly. 

Still  he  marched  on.  At  first  he  had  walked  warily,  dreading 
surprise  at  each  moment,  but  as  he  saw  that  the  corridors  were 
only  a  man's  breadth  he  regained  confidence. 

He  walked  till  each  step  had  become  automatic.  He  had  for- 
gotten whether  he  walked  or  not.  Only  if  he  stopp>ed  could  he 
know,  but  this  did  not  occur  to  him. 

A  sudden  turn  brought  him  up  sharp,  and  he  stopped.  The 
muscles  of  his  legs  and  calves  began  to  twitch  spasmodically  and 
with  excruciating  pain.     He  was  forced  to  go  on. 


10  The    Little    Review 

Still  the  dark  held,  and  though  he  strained  his  eyes  to  see  what 
lay  before  him,  he  only  saw  lines  of  wMte  fire  darting  across  his 
sight,  and  these  burst  with  a  little  splatter  when  they  reached  the 
edge  of  his  retina. 

At  first  he  thought  he  was  seeing  light:  then  he  knew  that  the 
gods  were  laughing  at  him. 

He  saw  pale  outlines  of  a  stomach  appear  on  the  dark  before 
him,  and  it  was  like  a  drawing  on  a  slate.  He  knew  by  that  he 
was  hungry. 

His  bowels  began  to  gripe,  caling  for  food,  and  the  peristal! 
drew  for  him  a  figure  8,  with  the  long  axis  lying  horizontal.  The 
motion  of  each  foot  as  it  touched  ground  translated  itsdf  into  a 
circle  of  fire,  flashing  first  on  one  side  of  his  brain  and  then  on  the 
other. 

He  did  not  know  if  he  walked  or  not.  He  felt  his  eyes  bursting 
from  his  head.  Purkinje's  figures  danced  before  him,  making  a 
pink  haze .  There  was  a  little  tug  behind  him  —  and  a  cord 
snapped. 

Dancer 

Gyroscope  hums  immutably  through  buttocks  —  threatens  and 
terrifies  —  pervading  obscure  oscillation.  A  world  set  into  motion, 
uncontrollable.  ' 

But  in  opposite  direction  and  actually  and  with  a  more  furious 
obscurity  of  oscillation  hips  burn  with  more  febrile  and  human  life. 
Then  the  shoulders  —  and,  moving  down  like  a  snake,  the  ribs 
prepare  for  action.  Furiously  the  head  gyrates,  veers  —  a  synthetic 
five  moon  of  Saturn.  Thighs  and  legs  are  pivotted  on  quicksilver 
—  they  cannot  give  —  head  and  buttocks  dangle  from  Sirius. 

Buttocks  sway  alternately  —  a  floating  pier  —  one  is  terrified 
lest  they  break  away,  continue  their  ponderous  flight,  through  a 
space  where  there  is  no  darkness,  for  we  are  atoms  glued  to  their 
axes. 

Neck  and  head  joggle  like  five  mad  moons  in  steel  blue.  But 
from  the  bulb  one  yellow  shaft  swerves  out  —  blinding.  The  ma- 
chine clanks  —  shivers  on  quicksilver,  a  surface  cut  to  files  by  winds 
denser  than  metals  —  but  the  gravid  beauty  totters,  then  stands, 
for  quintessential  concentrations  jab  one  from  the  heel. 

The  trunk  twists  like  a  reed  upon  the  sinister  lake  of  dynamism 


The    Little    Review  ii 


made  by  buttocks  —  yet  revolves  about  them.  From  each  heel  the 
marvellous  upthrust  makes  the  buttocks  topple  from  one  side  of 
the  strut  to  the  other. 

Machine  accreted  from  birth,  oiled  much.  Such  a  belly — tight 
like  a  drum. 

One  hundred  rotations  in  as  many  planes. 

Buttocks  strutted  recklessly,  firm  against  quicksilver,  heeling, 
terribly  immutable. 

Trunk  wavers  and  twists. 

And  on  an  agate  edge  the  head  turns  wildly  with  its  blurred 
wings  of  ears,  emitting  its  shrill  blue  and  bright  bulbray. 

God 

The  Dramatist  sat  working  .  He  saw  his  hero  young,  hand- 
some, and  gifted  with  valuable  gifts.  He  saw  him  married,  weighed 
down  by  life  (it  was  a  Tragedy,  "bien  entendu").  He  saw  him 
finally  overcome.  He  grew  sad  when  he  thought  of  his  hero,  some- 
times even  wept.  Often  he  said  to  himself:  "There,  but  for  the 
grace  of  God,  goes  .  .  " 

Then  the  play  was  staged  and  was  an  instant  success.  Touring 
companies  were  sent  out,  translations  made.  The  play  was  per- 
formed in  every  capital  in  Europe.  But  the  Dramatist  had  forgot- 
ten the  old  play,  for  he  was  working  on  another. 

And  every  night  while  the  Dramatist  slept,  ate,  entertained,  loved: 
at  eight  o'clock  precisely  a  certain  theatre  in  London  would  be 
filled  with  beautiful  women  ui  beautiful  wraps,  virile  men  in  evening 
dress,  shop  girls  and  clerks  in  the  gallery.  At  8.10  his  hero  would 
walk  on  the  stage,  take  off  his  "gibus"  with  verve  and  develop  his 
part.  The  heroine  would  fling  herself  into  his  arms,  threaten  sui- 
cide; in  short  be  adorable.  The  whole  long  play  would  be  gone 
through,  word  for  word  as  it  had  been  written,  with  exactly  the 
right  curve  of  wrist  for  holding  a  cigarette.  To  the  Dramatist, 
when  he  thought  about  it,  these  were  people  he  had  met  vaguely  at 
dinner . 

On  the  Continent  at  varying  times  the  same  scene  was  enacted. 
The  same  sort  of  theatre  was  filled  with  the  same  sort  of  people 
who  were  shown  the  play  exactly  as  it  had  been  written,  word 
for  word. 

Another   replica   of   the   hero;    an   identical   heroine:    angry. 


12  The    Little    Review 


sobbing,  despairing.    The  same  emotions  evoked  all  over  the  world. 

And  every  evening,  while  the  author  of  their  being  slept,  ate, 
loved  or  entertained;  somewhere  a  thousand  miles  away  a  beau- 
tiful, straight  and  immaculate  hero  would  suddenly  break  off  his 
own  sleeping,  eating,  entertaining  or  loving  to  knock  at  a  door, 
walk  on  to  a  stage,  throw  his  "gibus"  on  to  a  divan,  and  pull  up  his 
trousers  a  little  at  the  knee  before  he  knelt  to  make  his  grand  dec- 
laration of  passion.  Every  evening,  a  hundred  similar  heroes  and 
heroines  all  over  the  world. 

It  was  like  an  action  that,  once  done,  goes  careering  through 
space  forever  and  forever. 

But  the  Dramatist  was  working  on  a  new  play.  He  had  for- 
gotten what  his  old  play  was  about.  He  even  repeated  one  of  the 
scenes,  with  a  difference. 

Theatre     Muet 

The  curtain  is  raised  upon  Autumn  and  closely  interwoven 
trees.  Dead  leaves  in  profusion.  Behind  is  seen  a  long  field  with 
stocks  of  corn  which  mist  is  clotting. 

Behind  —  mountains. 

Curtain  drops. 

The  curtain  is  raised  again  and  a  woman  is  standing  beneath 
the  trees,  half  in  shadow.  It  is  the  first  phase  of  twilight. 

Evidently  she  is  waiting. 

The  mist  grows  denser  and  gradually  envelopes  the  trees  so 
that  the  woman  is  blotted  out. 

The  trees  multiply  rapidly;  she  is  in  a  dense  thicket  (clearing 
disappears) ;  the  mist  rises. 

Steps  are  heard  in  the  leaves  —  the  trees  dwindle;  they  be- 
come bushes.  ^ 

The  sky  grows  darker  but  clearer  —  the  evening  star  ascends. 

A  man  —  and  she  rushes  to  meet  him.  Everything  quicklj 
blots  out  in  curtain  of  black  and  yellow  with  spots  and  streaks 
that  whirl  excentrically  as  they  embrace.  This  disappears  as  they 
draw  apart.  Trees  gradually  climb  higher  again  and  while  the> 
regard  each  other  the  landscape  resumes  its  appearance  as  at  th€ 
opening  of  the  scene. 

They  approach  and  seize   each  other.     The  swirl  of  coloui 


The    Little     Review  13 


igain  appears  but  with  the  original  landscape  diminished  upon  it. 

They  separate  . 

They  have  become  colossal  in  comparison  with  what  is  around 
hem,  but  gradually  as  they  are  sucked  into  it  the  trees  resume 
heir  normal  size,  the  mist  creeps  out  thickly. 

It  grows  darker  with  more  stars.  The  time  for  partin<r  ap- 
)roaches .  1  »     t 

The  trees  grow  higher  and  higher,  become  a  thick  forest  ven 
old.    The  mist  threads  the  trunks  milkily. 

It  is  evident  he  must  go. 

They  embrace,  and  for  a  moment  the  trees  seem  to  dwindle 
md  then  shoot  up  terrifically  engulfing  her.    She  cowers. 

Rustling  of  leaves,  —  his  receding  footsteps. 

After    Hafiz 
Iris  Barry 

Dawn  seemed  so  slow  in  coming 

the  earliest  hour  of  morning  drove  me  to  the  garden 

as  mad  as  a  nightingale  for  the  comfort  of  the  roses. 

My  rose  loomed  through  the  dusk 

like  a  red  lam  of  loveliness: 

proud  of  her  youth: 

careless  of  the  notes  of  her  lovers  the  birds:  '. 

at  her  feet 

the  tulip's  heart  was  stained  with  stripes  of  passion 

and  the  narcissus  dropped  tears  of  envy  from  her  dark  eyes. 

I  cried  to  my  rose:  "Laila!    I  too  would  be  tranquil  as  your  sweet 

silken  robe 
Might  I  like  it  enfold  you." 

Alas!     Her  breast  and  shoulder,  her  breast  and  shoulder  have 

quite  ruined  my  heart. 
I  ask  of  the  nightingales  what  remedy  for  a  poor  lover? 
Altogether  they  sing  sadly  "Her  sweet  mouth,  her  desired  mouth ! " 


14  The    Little    Review 

POEMS 

Jean   de  Bosschere 
Dear! 

Pourquoi  est-tu  dans  Little  Russell  street, 

Et  pourquoi  me  parles-tu,  Dear? 

Tu  es  venue  de  Pise, 

Par  Milan  ou  tu  fus  initiee. 

Pourquoi  me  parles-tu  le  mauvais  anglais 

Que  je  te  reponds? 

Et  pourquoi  n'est-tu  pas  a  quatre  pattes. 

Sans  cette  poignee  de  boutons  et  d'agraffes, 

Et  dix  metres  de  ruban? 

Toutes  ces  choses  nouees  sur  rombilic 

Me  rendent  avi'de  dans  I'Assyrie  du  British. 

Plus  bete  dans  ton  jupon  vert,  jaune  et  bleu, 

Mais  splendide  et  baroque! 

Et  c'est  la  volupte! 

Avec  tes  pantalons  noirs  monies, 

Et  ton  sein  comme  un  oeuf 

que  pond  ton  corset  rose. 

Pourquoi  me  dis-tu  des  choses  trop  idiotes? 

En  parlant  I'anglais  par  I'italien  a  un  Frangais? 

Avance  a  quatre  pattes,  petit  ivoire  bete, 

Tu  seras  magique, 

Avec  tes  cuisses  un  pen  roses. 

Mais  bleu-rose  et  de  satin  violet 

Entre  le  genou  et  la  tignasse  de  Venus, 

Pourquoi  m'as-tu  parle  en  anglais  casse, 

Dear,  dans  Little  Russell  street. 

Si,  maintenant  vides, — 

Toi,  grotesque, 

Moi  burlesquement  lucide, — 

Tu  ne  peux  pas  grimper  a  quatres  pattes? 

Reponds,  animal, 

Et  ne  te  fie  plus  a  ton  art  trop  antique! 


The    Little    Review 


IS 


/ 


If  The    Little    Review 


M  0  m  i  e 

Au  Bodega  une  momie  cherche  son  amant. 
Elle  est  faite  de  creux, 
Un  squelette  vide. 
/\  Des  trous  sombres  pour  le  venire  et  px)ur  les  yeux; 

Les  joues  limees  a  I'ocre; 

Des  sillons  obscurs  de  Toeil  a  la  bouche  pliis  noire; 
Sous  le  ecu  la  robe  courbe  dans  I'illiaque, 
Et  penche  vers  les  pieds. 

Elle  s'est  brulee  dans  les  pensees  d'amour; 
Elle  est  faite  de  larmes  et  de  bitume. 
Dans  sa  chambre  des  rubans  et  des  fleurs 
pour  Lui! 

Quant  a  elle,  le  feu  devore  tout  cela. 
Les  fleurs  fanent  a  son  souffle; 
Les  rubans  sont  pour  d'autres, 
Blondes  et  bleues,  moins  furieuses. 

Quant  a  elle, 

Sous  le  cuir  jaune  d'amour  et  de  pleurs, 

Elle  est  rouge  et  brune. 

Dans  sa  cuvette  une  chemise  est  trempee; 

L'odeur  des  ambres  plane  dans  sa  chambre; 

Et  de  la  poussiere  fait  armure  aux  meubles. 

Et  toujours  son  coeur  se  retrecit, 

Pole  ardent  dans  le  feu  qui  la  mange. 

Du  fond  des  yeux  elle  cherche  I'amant, 
Et,  courbee  un  peu, 
.  Jaune  dans  le  drap  vert. 

Elle  regarde  par  le  guichet  de  la  porte  d'acajou: 
Oeil  d'or  du  hareng  violet  et  bleu, 
Aux  fentes  des  caques  disjointes. 


The    Little    Review 


I? 


i8  The    Little    Review 


Silence 

Avec  d'autres  masques,  La  lie  prend  du  the; 
Lo'n,  je  n'entends  point  ces  mouettes  travesties, 
Ni  aucun  autre  bruit  de  mauvaise  poulie. 
Alors  ce  soir.  Harpocrates  est  venu  me  vistiter. 

II  a  bien  tarde,  j'ai  tout  empoisonne. 
Dormant  de  la  flamme  aux  racines, 
De  la  flame  aux  fleurs, 
Aux  coeurs  triangulaires  des  femmes. 

Harpocrates  tu  viens  trop  tard, 

Mais  je  te  comprends, 

Dieu  demeure  dans  le  brouillard. 

Vous  me  regardez,  Grec  divin, 

Et  meme  votre  regard  ne  dit  rien. 

Dis-moi  Thonneur  sombre-t-il  dans  le  silence? 

II  ne  dit  rien. 

Une  fois,  Lalie  prenait  du  the, — 

Harpocrates  ecoutait  un  chevalier, 

Harpocrates  sans  mot  dire, 
Riait  comme  tons  les  Dieux. 


The    Little    Review 


19 


20  The     Little     Review 


Le     Chien     Domestique 

Castor  le  braque  de  Pollux  est  mort. 

"lis  s'aimaient" 

Diit  quelqu'un,  mais  c'est  un  homme 

dont  la  logique  est  toute  petite 
Dans  la  pivoine  blanche  de  la  cervelle. 

S'ama-ient-ils, 

Le  chien  et  1 'homme? 

Lui  baissait  le  nez  nu  et  blanc, 

L'autre  levait  le  museau  de  glue  noire: 

Entente  avec  telegraphie, 
Meme  pendant  la  station  aux  arbres. 
Ce  langage  du  nez  blanc 
Et  du  nez  noir 
,    M'ecorchait  tout  vivant. 

A  table,  les  odeurs, 

Celle  de  1 'homme  et  celle  du  braque 

Appelaient  dans  les  viandes  et  les  sauces, 

Non  pas  le  poivre  cavalier, 

Ni  le  sel  au  froid  d'aurore, 

Mais  le  fumet  de  la  truie  grecque, 

Et  des  Hybrides: 

Metamorphoses; 

Ragout  de  petits  vices  simplistes; 

Enfin,  I'insoutenable  chien  domestique. 

De  plus,  I'un  d'eux  Pollux, 

Tenait  Fautre  attache: 

Petite  chaine  de  cuir  jaune, 

Et,  dans  le  mystere, 

II  y  avait  peut-etre  des  liens  de  fer. 

Castor  est  mort. 

Pollux,  6  Pollux,  petit  enfant 

De  cinquante  ans! 


I 


The    Little     Review 


21 


22  The    Little    Review 


Sa  femme  console  le  survivant 

Remue  ses  babouches, 

Fait  geindre  le  fauteuil, 

Se  rappelle.  pitoyable,  dans  la  cervelle, 

Dans  le  crane  etroit  de  Pollux, 

Par  vingt  bruits  familiers, 

Y  compris  sa  toux  courte. 

Mais  Pollux  pique  la  terre 

Du  nez  froid  et  innocent,  nu. 

Or  moi,  Chretien  ancien, 

Et  qui  connait  maintes  amours  , 

Et  la  peine  de  la  solitude. 

Peine  dans  rhomme  qui  tremble 

Au  bain  glace,  ici,  Ho  ici,  certes! 

Or  moi  pieux, 

J'ai  choisi  ma  plus  rousse  poule^ 

Poule  que  renard  ne  mangerait, 

—  Trop  belle  en  verite, — 

Que  ni  Rothchild  ni  Rothmaler  affames 

N'oseraient  manger, 

Poule  a  peindre  sur  enseigne,  or, 

Et  tete  rouge,  oeil  de  sable  rose. 

Elle  me  regarde  comme  la  fleur  epiaiae 

J'ai  envoy e  ma  poule  d'or  a  Pollux. 

Deja  elle  picorait  le  grain  dans  ma  main. 

C'est  une  poule  domestique. 

Et  j'y  ajoutai  une  la'sse,  un  cordon  de  soies 

Promenades! 


The    Little    Review 


23 


BREVIORA 

Ezra      Pound 

POETRY   is   the   statement   of  overwhelming   emotional   values 
.  all  the  rest  is  an  affair  of  cuisine,  of  art. 
Oft  n'emeut  que  par  la  clarte.    Stendhal  is  right  in  that  clause. 
He  was  right  in  his  argument  for  prose,  but  Poetry  also  aims  at 
giving  a  feeling  precisely  evaluated. 

Satire  is  the  expression  of  disgust  with  false  evaluations. 
A  passage  is  "poetic  or  "unpoetic"  in  two  respects: 

(o)  the  degree  in  which  the  emotional  element  inheres, 
(b)  the  justness  of  the  evaluation. 
It  is  good  or  bad  poetry  according  to  the  quality  of  the  expression. 
Sentimentality,  sob-stuff:  "false  statement  of  values. 
Good  art  is  expression  of  emotional  values  which  do  not  give 
way  to  the  intellect.     Bad  art  is  merely  an  assertion  of  emotion, 
which  intellect,  commoh-sense,  knocks  into  a  cocked  hat. 

Wordsworth,  emotion  almost  null,  emotional  element  scarcely 
present,  and  evaluation  largely  humbug. 

Milton,  barroque. 

Dante:  Era  gia  I'ora  che  volge  il  desio. 

Victorians,  Tennyson,  Browning,  Swinburne,  all  given  to  "lay- 
ing it  on"  in  one  way  or  another;  not  but  what  there  are  sound 
things  in  both  Swinburne  and  Browning.  Kipling,  a  mere  exagger- 
ration  of  Victoriania,  banjo  rendering  of  the  Browno-Swinburnian 
compost. 

The  better  tradition  of  English: 

"Seafarer",  lines  in  the  "Wanderer",  parts  of  Lay- 
aman,  Chaucer,  Gavin  Douglas,  Golding,  Marlowe  (translations 
as  well  as  original  work).  William  Shakesp)eare  (as  certain  other 
critics  have  noted),  Ballads  and  Elizabethan  songs  (rigoroulsy  se- 
lected), Wyatt,  Donne,  Waller,  Herrick,  later  a  few  catches  of 
Dorset  and  Rochester,  Crabbe,  Landor  (selected  and  sifted). 

In  Latin: 

Catullus,  of  the  most  poignant  poets. 

Horace,  complicated  proposition,  to  be  dealt  with  elsewhere. 


34  T  he    Little    Review 


Ovid,  particularization,  sense  of  the  Gods,  very  great  poet, 
underestimated  during  the  last  150  or  200  years,  perhaps  under- 
estimated ever  since  the  renaissance. 

Propertius,  quality  (more  anon). 

Gallus,  too  little  honoured. 

Martial,  valuable  for  his  opposition  to  the  rhetoricans.  This 
importance  not  understood  until  one  realizes  that  he  was  in  such 
opposition;  similiar  situation  now,  litei'ati  vs.  journalism.  "The 
rhetoricians  ruined  the  empire." 

The  rhetoricians  amylowellized  Cicero. 

NOTE    UPON    FASHIONS    IN    CRITICISM 
J.  H.  Le  Monier 

APRfiS  une  visite  de  plusieurs  mois  en  Amerique  ou  j 'avals  ac- 
cepte  un  poste  de  professenr  dans  une  des  universites  du 
Centre-Ouest,  et  apres  avoir  assiste  a  nombre  de  conferences  dans 
les  reunions  des  differents  "Discussion  Circles";  je  remarquai  chez 
I'Americain  cultive  un  curieux  enthousiasme  superficiel  a  recuellir 
des  informations  sur  la  chose  du  moment,  en  meme  temps  qu'une 
egalement  curieuse  et  fondamentale  repugnance  a  comprende  aucune 
nouveaute  ayant  trait  a  autre  chose. 

Je  suis  done  peut-etre  mieux  a  meme  de  juger  que  la  plupart 
des  autres  Frangais  des  difficultes  qui-ont  du  assillir  la  "Little 
Review"  en  presentant  a  son  public  le  numero  franga's.  L'accueil 
qui  fut  fait  a  ce  numero  par  d'autres  revues,  soit-disant  modernes. 
fut,  il  me  semble,  inutilement  grossier.  "Poetry",  magazine  qui 
s'intitule  fierement  "La  plus  vivante  expression  de  cet  art"  (poesie) , 
me  parait  dans  un  article  "Our  Contemporaries"  superlativement 
inexacte. 

"The  anthology  fever  has  not  hit  the  French  publishers  quite 
as  it  has  the  American."  "Le  fieire  des  anthologies  n'a  pas  frappe 
i«s  editeurs  frangais  tout  a  fait  aussi  rudement  que  les  Americans. 

Je  ne  sais  trop  s'ils  en  sont  frappes  toiit-a-jait  aussi  rudement 
que  les  Americains,  mais  a  coup  sur,  il  y  a  un  nombre  respectable 
d'anthologies  en  France. 

2.  Monsieur  S.  W.  dit  que  le  commentaire  de  Monsieur  P.  est 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  jj 


toujours  contradictoire.  Ce  commentaire  contredit  peut-etre  en 
effet  le  gout  courant  de  I'Universite  de  I'lUinois,  ou  de  Chitauqua^ 
et  tres  certainement  le  gout  de  Monsieur  S.  W.,  mais  il  ne  se  contre- 
dit lui-meme  en  aucune  maniere;  il  est,  en  fait,  parfaitement  cohe- 
rent. 

3.  Monsieur  S.  W.  nous  announce  que  Bryon  et  Alfred  de 
Musset  furent  a  portee  de  voix,  a  "Shouting  distance"  I'un  de  I'autre 
"Shouting  distance"  est  plaisant!  Leur  periode  fut  sans  doute  plus 
impetueuse  que  la  noire;  ils  furent  tons  deux  de  vagues  romantistes 
se  souciant  peu  de  la  technique  de  leurs  vers.  II  n'y  a  pourtant 
dans  Musset  rien  qui  ressemble  a  Don  Juan. 

4-  Swinburne  a  eu  beau  admirer  Gautier:  seul  un  lecteur  sans 
discernement  parlera  de  proche  parente  entre  Toeuvre  de  ces  deux 
hommes. 

^  5.  Monsieur  S.  W.  dit  que  Monsieur  P.  choisit  des  poemes  qui 
n  auraient  jamais  tente  le  traducteur.  Traducteur^ans  ce  cas  sisni- 
fie  evidemment  Monsieur  S.  W.  >»  ' 

6.  II  declare  que  le  choix  des  poetes  fait  par  Monsieur  P  est 
une  hste  dressee  au  hazard.  La  faussete  de  ce  jugement  pent  etre 
demontree  par  quiconque  voudra  bien  se  donner  la  peine  d'observer 
que  Monsieur  P.  fournit  toujours  des  raisons  specifiques  pour  traiter 
chacun  des  poetes  qu'il  inclut. 

7.  Voici  d'ailleurs  qui  pent  servir  comme  echantillon  de  I'in- 
exactitude  secondaire  caracteristique  des  mauvais  journalistes  qui 
pullulent  egalement  en  France,  en  Angelterre  et  en  Amerique  II 
cite-  Monsieur  P.  et  lui  fait  dire:  "Nous  avons  (We  have)  beau- 
coup  de  parnassiens".  Si  Monsieur  P.  avait  dit  cela  il  aurait  ce 
me  semble  fait  erreur,  si  je  puis  m'en  rapporter  a  la  poesie  contem- 
poraine  d  Amerique  que  j'ai  lue.  Mais  voici  textuellement  ce  que 
Monsieur  P.  a  dit:  "L^Amerique  a  cu  {Has  had)  suffisemment  de 
parnassiens,  pent  etre  de  second  ordre,  ma's  pourtant  suffisemment." 

Monsieur  S.  W.  conclut  en  faisant  remarquer  que  Monsieur  P 
insiste  sur  un  point,  a  savoir:  qu'il  y  a  des  mauvais  poetes  en  Fran- 
Qais  aussi  bien  qu'en  Anglais. 

Monsieur  P.  constate  legerement.    Faut-il  insister? 


26  The    Little    Review 


ULYSSES 

James    Joyce 
Episode    VII. 

GROSSBOOTEU   draymen    rolled   barrels    dullhudding    out    of 
Prince's  stores  and  bumped  them  up  on  the  brewery  float. 
Grossbooted    draymen    rolled    barrels  ,  dullthudding    out    of 
Prince's  stores  and  bumped  them  up  on  the  brewery  float. 

—  There  it  is,  John  Murray  said.    Alexander  Keyes. 

—  Just  cut  it  out,  will  you?  Mr.  Bloom  said,  and  I'll  take  it 
round  to  the  Telegraph  office. 

—  The  door  of  Ruttledge's  office  creaked  again. 

John  Murray's  long  shears  sliced  out  the  advertisement  from 
the  newspaper  in  four  clean  strokes. 

—  I'll  go  through  the  printing  works,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  taking 
the  cut  square. 

—  Of  course,  if  he  wants  a  par,  John  Murray  said  earnestly, 
we  can  do  him  one. 

—  Right,  Mr.  Bloom  said  with  a  nod.     I'll  rub  that  in. 
We. 

John  Murray  touched  Mr.  Bloom's  arm  with  the  shears  and 

whisp)ered: 

—  Br  ay  den. 

Mr.  Bloom  turned  and  saw  the  liveried  porter  raise  his  lettered 
cap  as  a  stately  figure  entered  from  Prince's  street.  Dullthudding 
Guinness's  barrels.  It  passed  statelily  up  the  stair  case,  steered 
by  an  umbrella,  a  solemn  beardframed  face.  The  broadcloth  back 
ascended  each  step:  back.  All  his  brains  are  in  the  nape  of  his 
neck,  Simon  Dedalus  says.     Fat  folds  of  neck,  fat,  neck,  fat,  neck. 

—  Don't  you  think  his  face  is  like  Our  Saviour?  John 
Murray  whispered. 

The  door  of  Ruttledge's  office  whispered:   ee:   cree. 

Our  Saviour:  beardframed  oval  face:  talking  in  the  dusk. 
Mary,  Martha.  Steered  by  an  umbrella  sword  to  the  footlights: 
Mario  the  tenor. 

—  Or  like  Mario,  Mr.   Bloom  said. 

Yes,  John  Murray  agreed.     But  Mario  was  said  to  be  the 


The    Little    Review  27 


picture  of  Our  Saviour. 

Jesusmario  with  rougy  cheeks,  doublet  and  spindle  legs.  Hand 
on  his  heart.     In  Martha. 

Co-ome  thou  lost  one, 
Co-ome  thou  dear  one! 

—  His  grace  phoned  down  twice  this  morning,  John  Murray 
said  gravely. 

They   watched   the   knees,   legs,   boots   vanish     Neck. 
Mr.   Bloom  said  slowly: 

—  Well,  he  is  one  of  our  saviours  also. 

A  meek  smile  accompanied  him  as  he  lifted  the  counter-flap, 
as  he  passed  in  through  the  sidedoor  and  along  the  warm  dark 
stairs  and  passage,  along  the  now  reverberating  boards.  Thump- 
ing, thumping. 

He  pushed  in  the  glass  swingdoor  and  entered,  stepping  over 
strewn  packing  paper.  Through  a  lane  of  clanking  drums  he  made 
his  way  towards  Nannetti's  reading  closet. 

Hynes  here  too:  account  of  the  funeral  probably.  Thump- 
ing thump.  This  morning  the  remains  of  the  late  Mr.  Patrick 
Dijgnam.  Machines.  His  machineiries  are  ipegging  away  too., 
Like  these,  got  out  of  hand:  fermenting.  Working  away,  tearing 
away.     And  that  old  grey  rat  tearing  to  get  in. 

Mr.  Bloom  halted  behind  the  foreman's  spare  body,  admiring 
the  glossy  crown. 

Strange  he  never  saw  his  real  country.     Ireland  my  country . 
Member  for  College  green.     He  ran  that  workaday  worker  tack  for 
all  it  was  worth.  ^ 

The  machines  clanked  in  threefour  time.  Thump,  thump, 
thump.  Now  if  he  got  paralysed  there  and  no-one  knew  how 
to  stop  them  they'd  clank  on  and  on  the  same,  print  it  over  and 
over  and  up  and  back.  Monkeydoodle  the  whole  thing.  Want  a 
cool  head. 

—  Well,  get  it  into  the  evening  edition,  councillor,  Hynes 
said. 

Soon  be  calling  him  my  lord  mayor.  Long  John  is  backing 
.him  they  say. 

The  foreman,  without  answering,  scribbled  press  on  a  corner 
of  the  sheet  and  made  a  sign  to  a  typesetter.    He  handed  the  sheet 


28  The    Little    Review 


silently  over  the  dirty  glass  screen. 

—  Right:  thanks,  Hynes  said  moving  off. 
Mr.   Bloom   stood   in  his  way. 

•        —  If  you  want  to  draw,  the  cashier  is  just  going  to  lunch, 
he  said,  pointing  backward  with  his  thumb. 

—  Did  you?     Hynes  asked. 

— .  Mm,  Mf .  Bloom  sa'd.     Look  sharp  and  you'll  catch  him. 

—  Thanks,  old  man,  Hynes  said.     I'll  tap  him  too. 

He  hurried  oh  eagerly  towards  the  Freeman's  Journal. 

Three  bob  I  lent  him  in  Meagher's. 

Mi.   Bloom  laid  his  cutting  on  Mr.  Nannetti's  desk. 

—  Excuse  me,  councillor,  he  said.  Th's  ad,  you  see.  Keyes, 
you  remember. 

Mr.  Nannetti  considered  the  cutting  awhile   and  nodded. 

—  He  wants  it  m  for  July,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 
The  foreman  moved  his  pencil  towards  it. 

—  But  wait,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  He  wants  it  changed.  Keyes, 
you  see.     He  wants  two  keys  at  the  top. 

Hell  of  a  row  they  make.     Maybe  he  understands  what  I. 
The  foreman  turned  round  to  hear  patiently  and,  lifting  an 
elbow,  began  to  scratch  slowly  in  the'  armp!t  of  his  alpaca  jacket. 

—  Like  that.  Mr.  Bloom  said,  crossing  his  forefingers  at  the 
top. 

Let  him  take  that  in  first  .  .  . 

Mr.  Biloom,  glancing  sideways  up  from  the  cross  he  had  made, 
saw  the  foreman's  sallow  face,  think  he  has  a.  touch  of  jaundice, 
and  beyond  the  obedient  reels  feeding  in  the  huge  webs  of  paper. 
Clank  it.  Clank  it.  Miles  of  it  unreeled.  What  becomes  of  it 
after?  O,  wrap  up  meat,  parcels:  various  uses,  one  thing  or 
another. 

Slipping  his  words  deftly  into  the  pauses  of  the  clanking  he 
drew  swiftly  on   the   scarred  woodwork. 

—  Like  that.  see.  Two  crossed  keys  here.  A  circle.  Then 
here  the  name  Alexander  Keyes.  tea.  wine  and  spirit  merchant. 
So  on. 

Better  not  teach  him  his  own  business. 

—  You  know  yourself,  councillor,  just  what  he  wants.  Then 
round  the  top  in  leaded:  the  house  of  keys.  You  see?  Do  you 
think  that's  a  good  idea? 


The    Little    Review 


29 


a^ie  foreman  moved  his  scralchinj?  hand  to  his  lower  ribs 
and   scratched   there   quietly. 

—  The  idea.  Mr.  *BIoom  said,  is  the  house  of  keys.  You  know 
councilor,  the  Manx  parliment.  Tourists,  you  know,  from  the 
isle  of  Man.     Catches  the  eye,  you  see.     Can  you  do  that? 

I  could  ask  him  perha])s  about  how  to  pronounce  that  voglio. 
But  then  if  he  didn't  know  only  make  it  awkard  for  him.  Better 
not. 

—  We  can  do  that,  the  foreman  said.     Have  you  the  design? 

—  I  can  get  it,  Mr.  Bloom  said.,,  It  was  in  a  Kilkenny  paper. 
He  has  a  house  there  too.  I'll  just  riiii  out  and  ask  him.  Well, 
you  can  do  that  and  just  a  little  par  calling  attention.  You  know 
the  usual  Highclass  licensed  premises.     Longfelt  want.     So  on. 

The   foreman   thought   for   an   instant. 

—  We  can  do  that,  he  said.  Let  him  give  us  a  three  month's 
renewal  . 

A  typesetter  brought  him  a  limp  galleypage.  He  began  to 
check  It  silently.  Mr.  Bloom  stood  by,  hearing  the  loud  throbs 
of  cranks,  watching  the  silent  typesetters  at  their  cases. 

Want  to  be  sure  of  his  spelling.  Martin  Cunningham  forgot 
to  give  us  his  spellingbee  conundrum  th:'s  morning.  It  is  amusing 
to  view  the  unpar  one  ar  alleled  embarra  two  ars  is  it?  double  ess 
ment  of  a  harassed  pedlar  while  gauging  au  the  symmetry  of  a 
peeled  pear  under  a  cemetery  wall.  Silly  isn't  it?  Cemetery  put 
in  of  course  on  account  of  the  symmetry. 

I  could  have  said  when  he  clapped  on  Jiis  topper.  Thank  you. 
I  ought  to  have  said  something  about  an  old  hat  or  something. 
No,  I  could  have  said.  Looks  as  good  as  new  now.  See  his  phiz 
then. 

Silt.  The  nethermost  deck  of  the  first  machine  jogged  for- 
ward its  flyboard  with  silt  the  first  batch  of  quirefolded  papers. 
Silt.  Almost  human  the  way  it  silt  to  call  attention.  Doing  its 
level  best  to  speak.  That  door  too  "sllt  creaking,  asking  to  be  shut. 
Everything  speaks  in  its  own  way.     Silt. 

The   foreman  handed  back   the  galleypage  suddenly,   saying: 

—  Wait.  Where's  the  archbishop's  letter?  It's  to  be  re- 
peated in  the  Telegraph.     Where's  what's  his  name 

He  looked  about  him  round  his  loud  unanswering  machines. 

—  Monks,  sir?     ,  * 


30  The    Little    Review 

—  Ay.     Where's  Monks? 

—  Monks! 

Mr.  Bloom  took  up  his  cutting.     Time  to  get  out. 
—Then  I'll  get  the  design,  Mr.  Nannetti,  he  said,  and  you'll 
give  it  a  good  place  I  know. 

—  Monks! 

—  Yes,  sir. 

Three  month's  renewal.  Want  to  get  some  wind  off  my 
chest  first.  Try  it  anyhow.  Rub  in  August:  good  idea:  horseshow 
month.     Ballsbridge.     Tourists  over  for  the  show. 

He  walked  on  throught  the  caseroom,  passing  an  old  man, 
bowed,  spectacled,  aproned.  Old  Monks,  the  dayfather.  Queer  lot 
of  stuff  he  must  have  put  through  his  hands  in  his  time:  obituary 
notices,  pubs'  ads,  speeches,  divorce  suits,  found  drowned.  Near- 
ing  the  end  of  his  tether  now.  Sober  serious  man  with  a  bit  m 
the  savings  bank  I'd  say.  Wife  a  good  cook  and  washer.  Daughter 
working  the  machine  in  the  parlour.    Plain  Jane,  no  damn  nonsense. 

He  stayed  in  his  walk  to  watch  a  typesetter  neatly  distributing 
type.  Reads  it  backwards  first.  Quickly  he  does  it.  Must  require 
some  practice  that.  mangiD  kcirtaP.  Poor  papa  with  his  hagga- 
dah  book,  reading  backwards  with  his  finger  to  me.  Pessach. 
Next  year  in  Jerusalem.  -Dear,  0  dear!  All  that  long  business 
about  that  brought  us  out  of  Egypt  alleluia.  Shema  Israel  Adonai 
Eloheuu  .  No,  that's  the  other.  Then  the  twelve  brothers,  Ja- 
cob's sons.  And  then  the  lamb  and  the  cat  and  the  dog  and  the 
stick  and  the  water  and  the  butcher  and  then  then  the  angel  of 
death  kills  the  butcher  and  he  kills  the  ox  and  and  the  dog  kills 
the  cat.  Sounds  a  bit  silly  till  you  come  to  look  into  it  weU. 
Justice  it  means  but  it's  everybody  eating  everyone  else,  ihats 
what  life  is  after  all.  How  quickly  he  does  that  job.  Seems  to 
see  with  his  fingers.  . 

Mr    Bloom  passed  on  out  of  the  clankmg  noises  through  the 
"allery  on  to  the  landing.     Now  am  I  going  to  tram  it  out  all  the 
way  and  then  catch  him  out  perhaps.     Better  phone  him  up  first . 
Number?     Same  as   Citron's  house.     Twentyeight.     Twentyeight 

double  four. 

He  went  down  the  house  staircase.  Who  the  deuce  scrawled 
all  over  these  walls  with  matches?  Looks  as  if  they  did  it  for  a 
bet.     Heavy  greasy  smell  there  always  is  in  those  works. 


The    Little    Review  31 

He  took  out  his  handerchief  to  dab  his  nose.  Citronlemon? 
Ah,  the  soap  I  put  there.  Lose  it  out  of  that  pocket.  Putting 
back  his  handerkerchief  he  took  out  the  soap  and  stowed  it  away, 
buttoned,  into  the  hip  pocket  of  his  trousers  . 

What  perfume  does  your  wife  use?  I  could  go  home  still: 
tram:  something  1  forgot.  Just  to  see:  before:  dressing.  No. 
Here.     No. 

A  sudden  screech  of  laughter  came  from  the  Evening  Tele- 
graph office.  Know  who  that  is.  What's  up?  Pop  in  a  minute 
to  phone.    Ned  Lambert  it  is. 

He  entered  softly. 

—  The  ghost  walks,  professor  MacHugh  murmured  softly, 
biscuitfully  to  the  dusty  windowpane. 

Mr.  Dedalus,  staring  from  the  empty  fireplace  at  Ned  Lam- 
bert's quizzing  face,  asked  of  it  sourly: 

—  Agonizing  Christ,  would'nt  it  give  you  a  heartburn  on 
your  arse? 

Ned  Lambert,  seated  on  the  table,  read  on: 

—  Or  folloiv  the  ntcanderings  of  some  purling  rill  as  it  bab- 
bles on  its  way  to  Neptune's  blue  domain,  mid  mossy  banks,  played 
on  by  the  glorious  sunlight  or  among  the  shadows  cast  upon  its 
pensive  bosom  by  the  overarching  leafage  of  the  giants  of  the  for- 
est. What  about  that.  Simon?  he  asked  over  the  fringe  of  his 
newspaper. 

—  Changing  his  drink,  Mr.  Dedalus  said. 

Ned  Lambert,  laughing,  struck  the  newspaper  on  his  knees 
repeating: 

—  The  pensive  bosom  and  the  overarching  leafage.     0  boys! 

0  boys! 

—  That  will  do,  professor  MacHugh  cried  from  the  window. 

1  don't  want  to  hear  any  more  of  the  stuff. 

He  ate  off  the  crescent  of  water  biscuit  he  had  been  nibbling 
and  made  ready  to  nibble  the  biscuit  in  his  othei-  hand. 

High  falutin  stuff.  Ned  Lambert  is  taking  a  day  off  I  see. 
Rather  upsets  a  man's  day  a  funeral  does.  He  has  influence,  they 
say.  Old  Chatterton,  the  vicechancellor  is  his  granduncle  or  his 
jgreiatgrandunjcle.  Ninetyfive  ^t:hey  say.  The  right  honourable 
Hedges  Eyre  Chatterton.  Daresay  he  writes  him  an  odd  shaky 
cheque  or  two. 


3'  The    Little    Review 


—  Just  another  spasm,  Ned  Lambert  said  . 

—  What  is  it?     Mr.  Bloom  asked  . 

—  A  recently  discovered  fragment  of  Cicero's,  professor  Mac- 
Hugh  answered  with  pomp  of  tone.     Our  lovely  land. 

—  Whose  land?     Mr.  Bloom  said  simply. 

—  Most  pertinent  question,  the  professor  said  between  his 
chews,  with  an  accent  on  the  whose. 

—  Dan  Dawson's  land,  Mr.  Dedalus  said. 

—  Is  it  his  speech  last  night?     Mr.  Bloom  asked. 
Ned  Lambert  nodded. 

—  But  listen  to  this,  he  said. 

The  doorknob  hit  Mr.  Bloom  in  the  small  of  the  back  as  the 
door  was  pushed  in. 

—  Excuse  me,  J  .  J.  O'Molloy  said,  entering. 
Mr.  Bloom  moved  nimbly  aside. 

—  I  beg  yours,  he  said. 

—  Good  day,  Jack. 

—  Come  in.     Come  in. 

—  Good  day. 

—  How  are  you,  Dedalus? 

—  Well.     And  yourself? 

J.  J.  O'Molloy  shook  his  head. 

Cleverest  fellow  at  the  junior  bar  he  used  to  be.  Decline^ 
poor  chap.     Touch  and  go  with  him. 

—  Or  again  if  wc  but  climb  the  towering  mountain  peaks. 

—  You're  looking  as  fit  as  a  fiddle. 

—  Is  the  editor  to  be  seen?  J.  J.  O'Molloy  asked,  looking 
towards  the  inner  door. 

—  Very  much  so,  professor  MacHugh  said.  To  be  seen  and 
heard.     He's  in  his  sanctum  with  Lenehan. 

J.  J.  O'Molloy  strolled  to  the  sloping  desk  and  began  to  turn 
back  the  pink  pages  of  the  file. 

Practice  dwindling.  Losing  heart.  Used  to  get  good  retain- 
ers from  D.  and  T.  Fitzgerald.  Bel'eve  he  does  some  literary  work 
for  the  Express  with  Gabriel  Conroy.  Well-read  fellow.  Myles 
Crawford  began  on  the  Independent.  Funny  the  way  they  veer 
about.  Go  for  one  another  baldheaded  in  the  papers  and  then  hail 
fellow  well  met  the  next  moment. 

—  Ah,  listen  to  this  for  God's  sake,  Ned  Lambert  pleaded.    Or 


The    Little    Review 


33 


again  if  ive  but  climb  the  toivering  mountain  peaks 

—  Bombast!  the  professor  broke  in  testily.  Enough  of  the 
windbag! 

— Peaks,  Ned  Lambert  went  on,  to  bathe  our  souls,  as  it 
were  .  ,  .  . 

—  Bathe  his  lips,  Mr.  Uedalus  said.     Yes? 

—  As  it  were,  in  the  peerless  panorama  of  bcsky  grove  and 
undulating  plain  and  luscious  pastureland,  steeped  in  ike  transcen- 
dent translucent  glow  of  our  mild  mysterious  Irish  twilight.  .  .  . 

—  The  moon,  professor  MacHugh  said.     He  forgot  Ham!et. 

— That  mantles  the  vista  far  and  wide  and  wait  till  the  glow- 
ing orb  of  the  moon  shines  forth  to  irradiate  her  silver  efftd- 
gence  ... 

—  O!  Mr.  Dedalus  groaned  helplessly.  Onions!  That'll 
do,  Ned  .      Life   is  too  short. 

He  took  off  his  silk  hat  and,  blowing  out  impatiently  his 
bushy  moustache,  began  to-  rake  through  his  hair  with  his  fingers. 

Ned  Lambert  tossed  the  newspaper  aside,  chuckling  with 
delight.  An  instant  jitter  a  hoarse  bark  of  laughter  burst  over 
professor  MacHugh 's  unshaven  blackspectaled  face. 

—  Doughy  Daw!   he  cried. 

All  very  fine  to  jeer  at  it  now  in  cold  print  but  it  goes  down 
ike  hot  cake  that  stuff.  He  was  in  the  bakery  line  too  wasn't  he? 
^Tiy  they  call  him  doughy  Daw.  Feathered  his  nest  well  anyhow. 
Daughter  engaged  to  that  chap  in  the  inland  revenue  office  with 
he  motor.  Hooked  that  n'cely.  Entertainments.  Big  blowout. 
iVetherup  ahvays  said  that.     Get  a  grip  of  them  by  the  stomach. 

The  inner  door  was  opened  violently  and  a  scarlet  beaked 
ace,  crested  by  a  comb  of  feathery  hair,  thrust  itself  in.  The 
X)ld  blue  eyes  stared  about  them  and  the  harsh  voice  asked: 

—  What  is  it? 
And  here  comes  the  sham  squire  himself,  professor  MacHugh 

aid  grandly. 

—  Getououthat,  you  bloody  old  pedagogue!  the  editor  said 
n   recognition. 

—  Come,  Ned,  Mr.  Dedalus  said,  putting  on  his  hat.  I  must 
et  a  drink  after  that. 

— Drrink!   the  editor  cried.     No  drink  served  before  mass. 

—  Quite  right  too,  Mr.  Dedalus  said,  going  out.  Come  on, 
^ed. 


34  The    Little    Review 

Ned  Lambert  sidled  down  from  the  table.     The  editor's  blue 
eyes  roved  towards  Mr.  Bloom's  face,  shadowed  by  a  smile. 

—  Will  you  join  us,  Myles?     Ned  Lambert  asked. 

—  North  Cork  militia!  the  editor  cried,  striding  to  the  mantel- 
piece.    We  won  every  time!   North  Cork  and  Spanish  officers! 

—  Where  was  that,  Myles?     Ned  Lambert  asked  with  a  re- 
flective glance  at  his  toecaps. 

—  -  In  Ohio!   the  editor  shouted. 

-^  So  it  was.  begad,  Ned  Lambert  agreed. 
Passmg  out,  he  whispered  to  J.  J.  O'Molloy: 

—  Incipient  jigs.     Sad  case. 

—  Ohio!  the  editor  crowed  in  high  treble  from  his  uplifted 
scarlet  face.     My  Ohio! 

—  A  perfect  cretic!  the  professor  said.    Long,  short  and  long. 
He  took  a  reel  of  dental  floss  from  his  waistcoat  pocket  and, 

breaking  off  a  piece,  twanged  it  smartly  between  two  and  two  of 
his  resonant  unwashed  teeth. 

—  Bingbang,  bangbang. 

Mr.  Bloom  seeing  the  coast  clear,  made  for  the  inner  door  . 

—  Just  a  moment,  Mr.  Crawford,  he  said.  I  just  want  to 
phone  about  an  ad.    He  went  in. 

—  What  about  that  leader  this  evening?  professor  MacHugh 
asked,  coming  to  the  editor  and  laying  a  firm  hand  on  his  shoulder. 

—  That'll  be  all  right,  Myles  Crawford  said  more  calmly. 
Never  you  fret.     Hello,  Jack. 

—  Good  day,  Myles.  J.  J.  O'Molloy  said,  letting  the  pages 
he  held  slip  limply  back  on  the  file.  Is  that  Canada  swindle  case 
on  today? 

The  telephone  whirred  inside. 

—  Tw^enty  eight.  .  .    No,  twenty.  .  .  Doublefour.  .  Yes. 
Lenehan  came  out  of  the  inner  office  with  tissues. 

—  Who  wants  a  dead  cert  for  the  Gold  cup?  he  asked.  Scep- 
tre with  0.  Madden  up. 

He  tossed  the  tissues  on  to  the  table.' 

Screams  of  newsboys  barefoot  in  the  hall  rushed  near  and 
the  door  was  flung  open.  Professor  MacHugh  strode  across  the' 
room  and  seized  the  cringing  urchin  by  the  collar  as  the  others 
scampered  out  of  the  hall  and  down  the  steps.  The  tissues  rustled 
up  in  the  draught,  floated  softtly  in  the  air  blue  scrawls  and  under 
the  table  came  to  earth. 


The    Little    Review  35 


—  It  wasn't  me,  sir.    It  was  the  big  fellow  shoved  me,  sir. 

—  Throw  him  out,  the  editor  said.     What  does  he  want? 
Lenehan  began  to  paw  the  tissues  up  from  the  floor,  gruntmg 

as  he  stooped  twice.  j      t 

—Waiting  for  the  racing  special,   sir,   the  newsboy  said,     it 

was  Pat  Mull  ins  shoved  me  in,  sir. 

He  pointed  to  two  faces  peering  in  round  the  doorframe. 
— Him,  sir. 

—  Out  of  this  with  you,  professor  MacHugh  said  gruffly. 
He  thrust  the  boy  out  and  banged  the  door  to. 
Yes  .  .  .  Evening  Telegraph  here,  Mr.  Bloom  phoned  from 

the  inner  office.  Is  the  boss  .  .  .  ?  Yes,  Telegraph  ...  To 
\vhere?  .  ,  .  Aha!  Which  auction  rooms?  .  .  Aha!  I  see.  .  . 
Right.     I'll  catch  him. 

The  bell  whirred  again  as  he  rang  off.  He  came  m  quickly 
md  bumped  against  Lenehan  who  was  struggling  up  with  the  sec- 
ond tissue. 

—  Pardon,  monsieur,  Lenehan  said,  clutching  him  for  an  in- 

itant  and  making  a  grimace. 

—  My  fault,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  suffering  his  grip.  Are  you 
lurt?     I'm  in  a  hurry. 

— Knee,  Lenehan  said. 

Ife  made  a  comic  face  and  whined,  rubbing  his  knee: 

—  The  accumulation  of  the  anno  Domini. 

—  Sorry  ,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 
He  went  to  ihe  door  and,  holding  it  ajar,  paused.     The  noise 

3f  two  shrill  voices,  a  mouthorgan,  echoed  in  the  bare  hallway 
from  the  newsboys  squatted  on  the  doorsteps: 

—  We   are   the   boys   of   Wexford 
Who  fought  with  heart  and  hand. 

—I'm  just  running  round  to  Bachelor's  walk,  Mr.  Bloom  said, 
ibout  this  ad  of  Keyes's.  Want,  to  fix  it  up.  They  tell  me  he's 
round  there  in  Dillon's.  _ 

He  looked  indecisively  for  a  moment  at  their  faces.  The 
iditor  who,  leaning  against  the  mantelshelf,  had  propped  his  head 
)n  his  hand,  suddenly  stretched  forth  an  arm  amply^ 

Go,  he  said.     The  world  is  before  you. 

--Back  in  no  time,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  hurrying' out. 

J.  J.  O'MoUoy  took  the  tissues  from  Lenehan's  hand  and  read 
hem  without  comment.  %^ 


36  T he    Little    Review 


He'll  get  that  advertiisement,  the  professor  said,  staring 
through  his  blackrimmed  spectacles  over  the  crossblind.  Look  at 
the  young  scamps  after  hipi. 

—  Show.     Where?     Lenehan  cried,  running  to  the  window. 

Bpth  smiled  over  the  crossblind  at  the  file  of  capering  news- 
boys in  Mr.  Bloom's  wake,  the  last  z'jgzagging  white  on  the 
breeze  a  mocking  kite,  a  tail  of  white  bowknots. 

—  Look  at  the  young  guttersnipes  behind  him,  Lenehan  said, 
and  you'll  kick.  Taking  off  his  flat  spaugs  and  the  walk.  Steal 
upon  larks. 

He  began  to  mazurka  swiftly  across  the  floor  on  sliding  feet 
past  the  fireplace  to  J.  J.  O'Molloy  who  placed  the  tissues  in  his 
receiving  hands.   . 

— What's  that?  Myles  Crawford  said  with  a  start.  Where 
are  the  other  two  gone? 

— •  Who?  the  professor  said  turning.  They're  gone  round  to 
the  Oval  for  a  drink. 

— Come  on  then,  Myles  Crawford  said.     Wher's  my  hat? 

He  walked  jerkily  into  the  office  behind,  jingling  his  keys  in 
his  pocket.  They  jingled  then  in  the  air  and  against  the  wood  as 
he  locked  his  desk  drawer. 

—  He's  pretty  well  on  professor,  MacHugh  said  in  a  low  voice. 

—  Seems  to  be,  J.  J.  O'Molloy  said,  taking  out  a  cigarette 
case.     Who  has  the  most  matches? 

He  offered  a  cigarette  to  the  professor  and  took  one  himself. 
Lenehan  promptly  struck  a  match  for  them  and  lit  their  cigarettes 
in  turn.    J.  J.  O'Molloy  opened  his  case  again  and  offered  it. 

—  Thanky  vous,  Lenehan  said,  helping  himself. 

The  editor  came  from  the  inner  office,  a  straw  hat  awry  on 
his  brow.  He  declaimed  in  song,  pointing  sternly  at  professoi 
MacHugh : 

— 'Twas  rank  and  fame  that  tempted  thee, 

'Twos  empire  charmed  thy  heart. 

The  professor  grinned,  locking  his  long  lips. 

—Eh?    You  bloody  old  Roman  empire?    Myles  Crawford  said. 

He  took  a  cigarette  from  the  open  case.  Lenehan,  lighting  it 
for  him  with  quick  grace,  said: 

—  Silence   for  my  brandnew  riddle! 

--  Imperittm  rom'amim.  J.  J.  O'Molloy  said  gently.  It  sounds 
nobler  than  British  or  Brixton.     The  word  reminds  one  somehow 


of  fat  in  the  fire. 


T he    Little    Review  x^ 


Myles  Crawford  blew  his  first  puff  violently  towards  the 
ceiling. 

—  That's  it,  he  said.  We  are  the  fat.  You  and  I  are  the  fat 
in  the  fire.     We  haven't  got  the  chance  of  a  snowball  in  hell. 

—  Wait  a  moment,  professor  MacHugh  said,  raising  two  quiet 
claws.  We  musn't  be  led  away  by  words,  by  sounds  of  words.  We 
thmk  of  Rome  imperial,   imperious,   imperative. 

He  extended   his  arms,  pausing: 

—  What  was  their  civilization?  Vast,  I  allow:  but  vile. 
Cloacae:  sewer.  The  jews  in  the  wilderness  and  on  the  moun- 
taintop  said:  It  is  meet  to  be  here.  Let  us  bu-'Id  an  altar  to  Je- 
hovah. The  Roman,  like  Lhe  Englishman  who  follows  in  this  foot- 
steps, brought  to  every  new  shore  on  which  he  set  his  foot  (on 
our  shore  he  never  set  it)  only  his  cloacal  obsession.  He  gazed 
about  h'm  in  his  toga  and  he  said:  It  is  meet  to  be  here.  Let 
us  construct  a  watercloset. 

—  Our  old  ancient  ancestors,  Lenehan  said,  were  partial 
lo  the  running  stream. 

— -  They  were  nature's  gentlemen,  J.  J  O'Molloy  murmured. 
But  we  have  also  Roman  law. 

—  And  Pontius  Pilate  is  its  prophet,  professor  MacHugh  re- 
sponded. 

—  Do  you  know  that  storv  about  chief  baron  Palles?  J.  J. 
O'Molly  asked  .. 

—  First  my  riddle,  Lenehan  sa'd.     Are  you  ready? 

Mr.  O'Madden  Burke,  tall  in  copious  grey,  came  in  from  the 
hallway.     Stephen  Dedalus,  behind  him,  uncovered  as  he  entered. 

—  Entrez,  nics  enlants!     Lenehan  cried. 

—  I  escort  a  suppliant,  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke  said  melodiously. 

—  How  do  you  do?  the  editor  said,  holding  out  a  hand.  Come 
in  .      Your  governor  is  just  gone. 

Lenehan  said  to  all: 

—  Silence!  What  opera  resembles  a  railwayline?  reflect, 
ponder,  excogitate,  reply. 

Stephen  handed  over  the  typed  sheets.,  pointing  to  the  title 
and  signature. 

—  Who?  the  editor  asked. 
Bit  torn  off. 

—  Mr.  Garrett  Deasy,  Stephen  said. 


38  The    Little    Review 


—That  old  pelters,  the  editor  said.  Who  tore  it?  Was  he  short 
taken?  -^^ 

On  swift  sail  flaming 
From   storm   and   south 
He   comes,   pale   phantom,  , 

Mouth    to   my   mouth. 

—  Good  day,  Stephen,  the  professor  said,  coming  to  peer 
over  tlieir  shoulders.     Foot  and  mouth.  ?     Are  you  turned.  .  .  ? 

Bullockbefriending  bard. 

—  Good  day,  sir,  Stephen  answered,  blushing.  The  letter  is 
not  mine.    Mr.  Garret  Deasy  asked  me  to 

O,  I  know  him,  Myles  Crawford  said,  and  knew  his  wife 

too.  The' bloodiest  old  tartar  God  ever  made.  By  Jesus,  she  had 
the  foot  and  mouth  disease  and  no  mistake!  The  night  she  threw 
the  soup  in  the  waiter's  face  in  the  Star  and  Garter.     Oho! 

A  woman  brought  sin  into  the  world.  For  Helen,  the  runa- 
way wife  of  Menelaus,  ten  years  the  Greek's.  O'Rourke's  wife, 
prince  of  Breffni. 

Is  he  a  widower?     Stephen  asked. 

—Ay,  a  grass  one.  Myles  Crawford  said.  Emperor's  horses. 
Habsburg '  An  Irishman  saved  his  life  on  the  ramparts  of  Vienna. 
Don't  vou  forget!  Maximilian  Karl  O'Donnell,  graf  von  Tirconnel 
in  Ireland.     Wild  geese.     O,  yes,  every  time.     Dton't  you  forget 

^  ■_The  point  is  d.d  he  forget  it.  J.  J.  O'Molloy  said  quietly. 
Saving  princes  is  a  thankyou  job. 

Professor  MacHugh  turned  on  him. 

—  And  if  not?  he  said.  '  .    „ 

—  I'll  tell  you  how  it  was,  Myles  Crawford  began.     A  Hun- 

crarian  it  was  one  day.  .  . 

—  We  were  always  loyal  to  lost  causes,  the  professor  said. 
Success  for  us  is  the  death  of  the  intellect  and  of  the  imagination. 
We  were  never  loyal  to  the  successful.  We  serve  them.  I  teach 
the  blatant  Latin  language.  I  speak  the  tongue  of  a  race  the  acme 
of  whose  mentality  is  the  maxim:  time  is  -«-y,  ^atenal  dom  . 
ation  Dominus!  Lord!  Where  is  the  spintuahty?  Lord  Jesus! 
LoKl  Salisbury  .      A  sofa  in  a  westend  club.     But  the  Greek! 

A^  smile  of  li«-ht  brightened  his  darkrimmed  eyes,  his  long  lips. 

—  The  Greek!  he  said  again.  Kyrios!  Shining  word!  Kyrtel 
The  radiance  of  the  intellect.     I  ought  to  profess  Greek,  the  Ian- 


T  h  e    Lit  tit    Review  3f 

guage  of  the  mind.  Kyric  clcisonl  The  closetmaker  and  the 
cloacamaker  will  never  be  lords  of  our  spirit.  We  are  liege  subjects 
of  the  catholic  chivalry  of  Europe  that  foundered  at  Trafalgar  and 
of  the  empire  of  the  spirit,  not  an  imperium,  that  went  under  with 
the  Athenian  fleets  at  Aegospotami.  Yes,  yes.  They  went  under, 
Pyrrhus,  misled  by  an  oracle,  made  a  last  attempt  to  retrieve  the 
fortunes  of  Greece.     Loyal  lo  a  lost  cause. 

He  strode  away  from  them  towards  the  window. 

—  They  went  forth  to  battle,  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke  said 
greyly,  but  they  always  fell. 

—  There's  a  ponderous  pundit  MacHugh 
Who  wears  goggles  of  ebony  hue: 

As  he  mostly  sees  double, 
To  wear  them  why  trouble? 
I  can't  see  the  Joe  Miller.     Can  you? 

In  my  mourning  for  Sallust,  Mulligan  says.  W^ose  mother 
is  beasty  dead.  . 

Myles  Crawford  crammed  the  sheets  into  a  sidepocket. 

—  That'll  be  all  rig'ht,  he  said.  I'll  read  the  rest  after. 
That'll  be  all  right. 

Lenehan  extended  his  hands  in  protest. 

—  But  my  riddle!  he  said.    What  opera  is  like  a  railwayline? 

—  Opera?     Mr.  O'Madden  Burke's  vague  face  repeated. 
Lenehan  announced  gladly: 

—  The  Rose  of  Castile.  See  the  wheeze?  Rows  of  cast 
steel.     Gee! 

He  poked  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke  mildly  in  the  spleen.  Mr. 
O'Madden  Burke  fell  back  with  grace  on  his  umbrella,  feigning  a 
gasp. 

—  Help!  he  sighed. 

Lenehan,  rising  to  tiptoe,  fanned  his  face  rapidly  with  the 
rustling  tissues. 

The  professor,  returning  by  way  of  the  files,  swept  his  hand 
across  Stephen's  and  Mr.   O'Madden   Burke's  loose  ties. 

—  Paris,  past  and  present,  he  said.  You  look  like 
communards. 

—  Like  fellows  who  had  blown  up  the  Bastile,  J.  J.  O'Molloy 
said  in  quiet  mockery.  Or  was  it  you  shot  the  lord  lieutenant  of 
Finland  between  you.  You  look  as  though  you  had.  done  the 
deed.     General  Bobrikoff. 


40  The    Little    Revie 


w 


—  We  were  only  thinking  about  it,  Stephen  said. 

—  All  the  talents,  Myles  Crawford  said.    Law,  the  classics. 

—  The  turf,  Lenehan  put  in. 

—  Literature,  the  press. 

—  If  Bloom  were  here,  the  professor  said.  The  gentle  art  of 
advertisement. 

—  And  Madam  Bloom,  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke  added.  The 
vocal   muse.      Dublin's   prime    favorite. 

Lenehan  gave  a  loud  cough. 

—  Ahem !  he  said  very  softly.  I  caught  a  cold  in  the  park. 
The  gate  was  open . 

The  editor  laid  a  nervous  hand  on  Stephen's  shoulder. 

—  I  want  you  to  write  something  for  me,  he  said.  Some- 
thing with  a  bite  in  it.    You  can  do  it.      I  see  it  in  your  face. 

See  it  in  your  face.  See  it  in  your  eye.  Lazy  idle  little 
schemer. 

—  Foot  and  mouth  disease!  the  editor  cried  scornfully.  Great 
nationalist  meeting  in  Borris-in-Ossory.  All  balls!  Bulldozing 
the  public  .  Give  them  something  with  a  bite  in  it.  Put  us  all 
into  it,  damn  its  soul.     Father,  Son  and  Holy  Ghost. 

—  We  can  all  supply  mental  pabulum,  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke 
said. 

Stephen  raised  his   eyes  to  the  bold  unheeding  stare. 

—  He  wants  you  for  the  pressgang,  J.  J.  O'Malloy  said. 

—  You  can  do  it,  M^des  Crawford  repeated,  clenching  his 
hand  in  emphasis.  Wait  a  minute.  We'll  paralyse  Europe  as 
Ignatius  Gallaher  used  to  say  when  he  was  on  the  shaughranun. 
That  was  pressman  for  you.  You  know  how  he  made  his  mark? 
I'll  tell  you.  That  was  the  smartest  piece  of  journalism  ever 
known.  That  was  in  eightytwo,  time  of  the  invincibles,  murder 
in  Phoenix  park,  before  the  you  were  born.     I'll  show  you. 

He  pushed  past  them  to  the  files. 

—  Look  at  here,  he  said,  turning.  The  New  York  World 
cabled  for  a  special.     Remember  that  time? 

Professor   MacHugh  nodded. 

—  The  New  York  World,  the  editor  said,  excitedly  pushing 
back  his  straw  hat.  Where  it  took  place.  Where  Skin-the  goat- 
drove  the  car.     Whole  route,  see? 

Skin-the-goat,  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke  said.     Fitzharris.     He 

has  that  cabman's  shelter  they  say,  down  there  at  Butt  bridge. 


The    Little    Review 


41 


Holohan  told  me.     You  know  Holohan? 

—  Hop  and  carry  one,  is  it?  Myles  Crawford  said. 

--  And  poor  Gumly  is  down  there  too,  he  told  me  minding 
stones  for  the  corporation.     .A  nightwatchman. 
Stephen  turned  in  surprise. 

—  Gumly?  he  said.     A  friend  of  my  father's,  is  he? 

—  Never  mind  Gumly,  Myles  Crawford  cried  angrily.  Let 
Gumly  mind  the  stones,  see  thev  don't  run  away.  Look  at  here 
WTiat  did  Ignatius  Gallaher  do?  I'll  tell  you.  Inspiration  of 
genius  Cabled  right  away.  Have  you  Weekly  Freeman  of  17 
March?     Right.     Have  you  got  that? 

He  flung  back  pages  of  the  files  and  stuck  his  finger  on  a 
point. 

—  Take,  page  four,  advertisement  for  Bransom's  coffee,  let 
us  say.     Have  you  got  that?     Right. 

The  telephone  whirred, 

—  I'll  answer  it,   the  professor  said,   going. 

—  B  is  parkgate.     Good. 

H's  finger  leaped  and  struck  point  after  point,   vibrating. 

—  T  is  viceregal  lodge.  C  is  where  the  murder  took  place.  K. 
is  Knockmaroon  gate. 

The  loose  flesh  of  his  neck  shook  like  a  cock's  wattles.  An 
illstarched  dicky  jutted  up  and  with  a  rude  gesture  he  thrust  it 
back  into  his  waiscoat. 

—  Hello?  Evening  Teleuraph  here.  .  .  Hello?  .  Who's 
there?  .  .  .     Yes    .  .  Yes.  .  .  Yes. 

--  F  to  P  is  the  route  Skin-the-goat  drove  the  car.     F.  A.  B.  P. 
Got  that?     X  is  BuiiJce's  puhlichouse  'n   Baggot  street. 
The  professor  came  to  the  inner  door. 
::-  Bloom  is  at  the  telephone,  he  said.  . 

—  Tell  him  to  go  to  hell,  the  editor  said  promptly.  X  is 
Burke's  publchouse,  see? 

—  Clever',  Lenehan  said. 

—  Gave  it  to  them  on  a  hot  plate,  Myles  Crowford  said,  the 
whole  bloody  h'story. 

Nightmare  from  which  you  will'  never  awake. 

--  I  saw  it  the  editor  said  proudly.  I  was  present,  Dick 
Adams  and  myself.  Out  of  an  advertisement.  That  gave  him  the 
'eg  up.  Then  Taj/  Pay  took  him  on  to  the  Star.  Now  he's  ^ot  in 
A'lth  Blumenfeld.    That's  press.     That's  talent.  ^  * 


42  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

—  Hello?  .  .  .  Are  you  there?  ....  Yes,  he's  here  still.  Come 
across  your  self. 

—  Where  do  you  find  a  pressman  like  that  now,  eh?  the 
editor  cried. 

He  flung  the  pages  down. 

—  Clever  idea,  Lenehan  said  to  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke. 

—  Very  smart,  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke  said. 
Professor  MacHugh  came  from  the  inner  office. 

—  Talking  about  the  invincibles,  he  said,  did  you  see  that 
some  hawkers  were  up  before  the  recorder 

—  O  yes.  J.  J.  O'Molloy  said  eagerly.  Lady  Dudley  was 
walking  home  through  the  park  and  thoug-ht  she'd  buy  a  view  of 
Dublin.  And  it  turned  out  to  be  a  commemoration  postcard  of 
Joe  Brady  or  Skin-the-goat.  Right  outside  the  viceregal  lodge, 
imagine! 

—  They're  only  in  the  hook  and  eye  department,  Myles  Craw- 
ford said  .  Psha!  Press  and  the  bar!  Where  have  you  a  man  now 
at  the  bar  like  those  fellows,  like  Whiteside,  like  Isaac  Butt,  like 
silvertongued  O'Hagan?  Eh?  Ah,  bloody  nonsense!  Only  in  the 
halfpenny  place! 

His  mouth   continued   to   twitch  unspeaking  in  nervous  curls 

of  disdain. 

Would  anyone  wish  that  mouth  for  her  kiss?  How  do  you 
know?    Why  did  you  write  it  then? 

Mouth,  south'  Is  the  mouth  south  someway?-  Or  the  south  a 
mouth?  Must  be  some.  South,  pout,  out,  shout,  drouth.  Rymes- 
two  men  dressed  the  same,  looking  the  same,  two  by  two. 

%  la   tiia   pace 

che  parlar  ti  place 

* Mentreche  il  vento,  come  ja,  si  tacc  ^ 

He  saw  them  three  by  three,  approaching  girls,  in  green,  in 
rose,  in  russet,  entwining,  per  Vaer  perso,  in  mauve,  m  purple, 
qiiella  pacifica  oriafiamma.  in  gold  of  orifiamme,  di  nmirar  je  pm 
ardenti.     But  I   old  men,  penitent,  leadenfooted:    mouth,   south: 

tomb  womb.  , 

—  Speak  up  for  yourself,  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke  said. 
J    J    O'Molloy,  smiling  palely,  took  up  the  gage. 

—  My  dear  Myles,  he  said,  flinging  his  cigarette  aside,  your 
Cork  legs  are  running  away  with  you.     Why  not  bring  m  Henry 


T he    Little    Revi ew  43 

ittan  and  Flood  and  Demosthenes  and  Edmund  Burke?  Ignat- 
i  Gaillaher  we  all  know  and  his  Chapelized  boss,  Harmsworth  of 
1  farthing  press,  and  his  American  cousin  of  the  Bowery  gutter- 
let.  Why  bring  in  a  master  of  forensic  eloquence  like  Whiteside? 
)ficient  for  the  day  is  the  newspaper  thereof. 

—  Grattan  and  Flood  wrote  for  this  very  paper,  the  editor 
d  in  his   face.     Irish  volunteers.     Where  are  you  now?     Dr. 

:as.     Who  have  you  now  like  John  Fhilpot  Curran?     Psha! 

—  Well,  J.  J.  O'Molloy  said,  Seymour  Bushe,  for  example. 

—  Bushe?  the  editor  said.  Well,  yes.  :  Bushe,  yes  .  He  has 
train  of  it  in  his  blood.  Kendal  Bushe  or  I  mean  Seymour 
she. 

—  He  would  have  been  on  the  bench  long  ago,  the  professor 

J.  J.  O'Molloy  turned  to  Stephen  and  said  quietly  and  slowly: 

—  One  of  the  most  polished  periods  I  think  I  ever  listened 
in  my  life  fell  from  the  lips  of  Seymour  Bushe.  It  was  in  that 
e  of  fratricide,  the  Childs  murder  case.     Bushe  defended  him. 

And  in  the  porches  of  mine  ear  did  pour 
By  the  way  how  did  he  find  that  out?     He  died  in  his  sleep  . 
the  other  story,  beast  with  two  backs? 

—  What  was  that?  the  professor  asked. 

—  He  spoke  on  the  law  of  evidence,  J.  J.  O'Molloy  saiG,  of 
man  justice  as  contrasted  with  the  eariier  Mosax  code,  the  lex 
onis.    And  he  spoke  of  the  Moses  of  Michelangelo  in  the  Vatican. 

—  Ha. 

Pause.     J.  J.  O'Molloy  took  out  his  cigarettcase. 

False  lull.     Something  quite  ordinary. 

Messenger  took  out  his  matchbox  thoughtfully  and  lit  his 
ar. 

I  have  often  thought  s'nce  on  looking  back  over  that  strange 
le  that.it  was  that  small  act,  trivial  in  itself,  the  striking  of 
natch,  that  determ'ned  the  whole  aftercourse  of  both  our  lives. 

J.    T.  O'Molloy  resumed,  moulding  his  words: 

—  He  sa'd  of  it:  that  sfony  effigy,  horned  and  terrible,  that 
rnal  symbol  of  wisdom  and  of  prophecy  which,  if  aught  that  the 
nginatiou  or  the  hand  of  sculptor  has  wrought  in  marble  of  soul- 
nsfigured  and  of  soiiltransfiguring  deserves  to  live,  deserves  to 


44  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Revie 


w 


His  sl'm  hand  with  a  wave  graced  echo  and  fall. 

—  Fine!   Myles  Crawford  said  at  once. 

—  You  like  it?     J.  J.  O'Mdloy  asked  Stephen. 

Stephen,  his  blood  wooed  by  grace  of  language  and  gesture 
blushed.  He  took  a  c'garette  from  the  case.  J.  J.  O'Molloy  offer 
ed  his  case  to  Myles  Crawford.  Lenehan  lit  their  cigarettes  a 
before  and  helped  himself. 

—  Professor  Magennis  was  speaking  to  me  about  you.  J.  J 
O'Molloy  said  to  Stephen.  \\*^at  do  you  think  really  of  tha 
hermetic  crowd  the  opal  hush  poets:  A.  E.  the  mastermystic 
That  Blavatsky  woman  started  it.  She  was  a  nice  old  bag  c 
tricks.  A.  E.  has  been  telling  some  interviewer  that  you  came  t 
him  in  the  small  hours  of  the  morning  to  ask  him  about  planes  c 
consciousness.  Magennis  thinks  you  must  have  been  pulling  / 
E.  's  leg.     He  is  a  man  of  the  very  highest  morale,  Magennis. 

Speaking  about  me.  What  did  he  say?  What  did  he  say 
What  did  he  say  about  me?     Don't  ask. 

—  No,  thanks,  professor  MacHugh  said,  waving  the  cigarette 
case  aside  .  Wait  a  moment.  Let  me  say  one  thing.  .The  fines 
display  of  oratory  I  ever  heard  was  a  speech  made  by  John  I 
Taylor  at  the  college  historical  soc'ety.  Mr.  Justice  Fitzgibboi 
the  present  lord  justice  of  appeal,  had  spoken  and  the  paper  ur 
der  debate  was  an  essay  (new  for  those  days)  advocating  the  r( 
vival  of  the  Irish  tongue. 

He  turned  towards  Myles  Crawford  and  said: 

—  You  know  Gerald  Fitzgibbon.  Then  you  can  imagine  tl: 
style  of  his  discourse. 

—  He  is  sitting  with  Tim  Healy,  J.  J.  O'Molly  said  on  tt 
Trin'ty  college  estates  commission. 

—  He  is  sitting  with  a  sweet  thing  in  a  child's  frock,  Myk 
Crawford  said.    Go  on.    Well? 

—  It  was  the  speech,  mark  you,  the  professor  said,  of  a  fir 
ished  orator,  full  of  courteous  haughtiness  and  pouring  I  will  m 
say  the  v'als  of  his  wrath  but  pouring  the  proud  man's  contumel 
upon  the  new  movement.     It  Avas  then  a  new  movement. 

He  closed  his  long  thin  lips  an  instant  but,  eager  to  be  oi 
raised  an  outspanned  hand  to  his  spectacles  and,  with  tremblin 
thumb  and  ringfinger  touching  lightly  the  black  rims,  steadied  ther 
to  a  new  focus.  ' 


1 


The   Little    Review  ac 


In  ferical  tone  he  addressed  J.  J.  O'MolIoy: 

—  Taylor  had  come  there,  you  must  know,  from  a  sick  bed. 
hat  he  had  prepared  his  speech  I  do  not  believe.  His  dark  lean 
.ce  had  a  growth  of  shaggy  beard  round  it.  He  wore  a  loose 
xkcloth  and  altogether  he  looked  (though  he  was  not)  a  dvincr 
an.  .     » 

Hjs  gaze  turned  at  once  towards  Stephen's  face  and  then  bent 
once  to  the  ground,  seeking.     His  unglazed  linen  collar  appeared 
hmd  his  bent  head,  soiled  by  his  withering  hair.     Still   seeking, 
said: 

—  When  Fitzgibbon's  speech  had  ended  John  F.  Taylor  rose 
reply.     As  well  as  I  can  bring  them  to  mind  his  words  were 

lese. 

He  raised  his  head  firmly.  His  eyes  bethought  themselves 
ce  more.  Witless  shellfish  swam  in  the  gross  lenses  to  and  fro, 
;king  outlet.  • 

He  began: 

—  Mr.  chairman,  ladies  and  gentlemen:  in  listening  to  the 
narks  addressed  to  the  youth  of  Ireland  a  moment  since  by  my 
\rned  friend  it  seemed  to  me  that  I  -had  been  transported  into  a 
■mtry  far  away  from  this  country,  info  an  age  remote  from  this 
I,  that  I  stood  in  ancient  Egypt  and  that  I  was  listening  to  the 
',ech  of  some  kighpriest  of  that  land  addressed  to  the  youthful 
')ses. 

His  listeners  held  their  cigarettes  poised  to  hear,  smokes  as- 
iding  in  frail  stalks  that  flowered  with  his  speech.  And  let  our 
"oked  smokes.  Noble  words  coming.  Look  out.  Could  you  try 
|ar  hand  at  it  yourself? 

—  And  it  seemed  to  me  that  I  heard  the  voice  of  that  Egyp- 
n  kighpriest  raised  in  a  tone  of  like  haughtiness  and  like  pride, 
leard  his  words  and  their  meaning  was  revealed  to  me. 

It  was  revealed  to  me  that  those  things  are  good  which  yet 
corrupted  which  neither  if  they  were  supremely  goond  nor  unless 
y  were  good,  could  be  corrupted.  Ah,  curse  you!  That's  saint 
gustine. 
—  Why  will  you  jews  not  accept  our  culture,  our  religion  and 
language?  You  are  a  tribe  of  nomad  herdsmens  we  are  a 
'hty  people ^  You  have  no  cities  nor  no  wealth:  our  cities  are 
es  of  humanity  and  our  galleys,  trireme  and  quadrireme,  laden 


46  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

ivith  all  manner  of  merchandise  furrow  the  waters  oj  the  knot 
globe.  You  have  but  emerged  from  primitive  condition:  we  ha 
a  literature,  a  priesthood,  an  agelong  history  and  a  polity. 

Nile. 

Child,   man,   effigy, 

By  the  Nilebank  the  babemaries  kneel,  cradle  of  bulrush* 
a  man  supple  in  combat:  stonehorned,  stonebearded,  heart  of  stoi 

—  You  pray  to  a  local  and  obscure  idol:  our  temples,  majes 
and  mysterious,  are  the  abodes  of  Isis  and  Osiris,  of  Horus  a 
Ammon  Ra.  Vagrants  and  daylabourers  are  you  called:  the  wo 
trembles  at  our  name. 

A  dumb  belch  of  hunger  cleft  his  speech.  He  lifted  his  vo 
above  it  boldly: 

— But,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  had  the  youthful  Moses  listei 
io  and  accepted  that  view  of  life,  had  he  bowed  his  head  i 
bowed  his  will  and  bowed  his  spirit  before  that  arrogant  admonit 
he  would  never  have  brought  the  chosen  people  out  of  their  housi 
bondage  nor  followed  the  pillar  of  the  cloud  by  day.  .He  wo 
never  have  spoken  with  the  Eternal  amid  lightnings  on  Sin 
mountaintop  nor  ever  have  come  down  with  the  light  of  inspira^ 
shining  in  his  countenance  and  bearing  in  his  arms  the  tablei 
the  law,  graven  in  the  language  of  the  outlaw. 

He  ceased  and  looked  at  them,  enjoying  silence. 

J.  J.  O'MoUoy  said  not  without  regret: 

—  And  yet  he  died  without  having  entered  the  land 
promise. 

—  A-sudden-.at-the-moment-though-from-lingering-illness-o 
previousy-expectorated-demise,  Lenehan  said.  And  with  a  g 
future  behind  him. 

The  troop  of  bare  feet  was  heard  rushing  along  the  hall 
and  pattering  up  the  staircase. 

—  That  is  oratory,  the  professor  said,  uncontradicted. 
Gone  with   the   wind.     Hosts  at  Mullaghmast   and  Tar; 

the  kings.     Miles  of  ears  of  porches.     The  tribune's  words  ho 
and  scattered.     Dead  noise.     Akasic  records  of  all  that  ever 
where  wherever  was. 
I  have  money. 

—  Gentlemen,  Stephen  said.  May  I  suggest  that  the  h 
do  now  adjourn? 


The    Little    Review  47 

—  It  is  not  a  French  compliment?  Mr.  O'Madden  Burke 
asked. 

—  All  who  are  in  favour  say  ay,  Lenehan  announced.  The 
contrary  no.  I  declare  it  carried.  To  which  particular  boosing- 
shed   .   .?      Mooney's? 

He  led  the  way. 

Mr.  O'Madden  Burke,  following  close,  said  with  an  ally's 
lunge  of  his  umbrella: 

—  Lay  on,  Macdtifj! 

—  Chip  of  the  old  block!  the  editor  cried,  slapping  Stephen 
on  the  shoulder.     Let  us  go.     Where  are  those  bloody  keys? 

He  fumbled  in  his  pocket,  pulling  out  the  crushed  typesheets. 

—  Foot  and  mouth.  \  know.  That'll  be  all  right.  That'll 
go  in.     Where  are  they? 

He  thrust  the  sheets  back  and  went  into  the  inner  office . 
J.  J.  O'Molloy,  about  to  follow  him  in,  said  quietly  to  Stephen: 

—  I  hope  you  will  live  to  see  it  published.  Myles,  one 
moment. 

He  went  into  the  inner  office,  closing  the  door  behind  him. 

—  Come  along,  Stephen,  the  professor  said.  That  is  fine, 
isn't  it?     It  has  the  prophetic  vision. 

The  first  newsboy  came  pattering  down  the  stairs  at  their 
heels  and  rushed  out  into  the  street,  yelling: 

—  Racing  special! 
Dublin. 

They  turned  to  the  left  along  Abbey  street. 

—  I  have  a  vision  too,  Stephen  said. 

—  Yes?  the  professor  said,  skipping  to  get  into  step.  Craw- 
ford will  follow. 

Another  newsboy  shot  past  them,  yelling  as  he  ran: 

—  Racing  special! 
Dubliners. 

Two  Dublin  vestals,  Stephen  said,  elderly  and  pious,  have 

lived  fifty  and  fiftythree  years  in  Fumbally's  lane. 
Where  is  that?  the  professor  asked. 

—  Off  Blackpitts,  Stephen  said. 

Dai?ip  night  reeking  of  hungry  dough.  Against  the  wall.  Face 
^listening  tallow  under  her  fustian  shawl.  Frantic  hearts.  Akasic 
records.     Quicker,  darlint! 


48  The    Little    Review 


On  now.     Let  there  be  life. 

—  They  want  to  see  the  views  of  Dublin  from  the  top  of 
Nelson's  pillar.  They  save  up  three  and  tenpence  in  a  red  tin  let- 
terbox moneybox.  They  shake  out  threepenny  bits  and  a  sixpence 
and  coax  out  the  penn'es  with  the  blade  of  a  knife.  Two  and  three 
in  silver  and  one  and  seven  in  coppers.  They  put  on  their  bon- 
nets and  best  clothes  and  take  their  umbrellas  for  fear  it-  may 
come  on  to  rain. 

—  Wise  virgins,  professor  MacHugh  said. 

—  They  buy  oneandfourpenceworth  of  brawn  and  four  slices 
of  panioaf  at  the  north  city  diningrooms  in  Marlborough  street 
from  Miss  Kate  Collins,  proprietress  .  .  They  purchase  four  and 
twenty  ripe  plums  from  a  girl  at  the  foot  of  Nelson's  pillar  to 
take  off  the  thirst. of  the  brawn.  They  give  two  threepenny  bits 
to  the  gentleman  at  the  turnstile  and  begin  to  waddle  slowly  up  the 
winding  staircase,  grunting,  encouraging  each  other,  afraid  of  the 
dark,  panting,  one  asking  the  other  have  you  the  brawn,  praising 
God  and  the  Blessed  Virgin,  threatening  to  come  down,  peeping 
at  the  airslits.  Glory  be  to  God.  They  had  no  idea  it  was  that 
high. 

Their  names  are  Anne  Kearns  and  Florence  MacCabe.  Anne 
Keams  has  the  lumbago  for  w^hich  she  rubs  on  Lourdes  water  given 
her  by  a  lady  who  got  a  bottleful  from  a  passionist  father.  Flor- 
ence MacCabe  takes  a  crubeen  and  a  bottle  of  double  X  for  supper 
every  Saturday. 

—  Antithes"s.  the  professor  said,  nodding  twice.  I  can  see 
them.     What's  keeping  our  friend? 

He  turned. 

A  bevy  of  scampering  newsboys  rushed  down  the  steps,  scamp- 
ering in  all  directions,  yelling,  their  white  papers  fluttering.  Hard 
after  them  Myles  Crawford  appeared  on  the  steps,  his  hat  aureoling 
his  scarlet  face,  talking  with  J.  J.  O'Molloy. 

—  Come  along,  the  professor  cried  waving  his  arm. 
He  set  off  again  to  walk  by  Stephen's  side. 

—  Yes.  he  said,  I  see  them. 

Mr.  Bloom,  caught  in  a  whirl  of  wild  newsboys  near  the 
steps,  called: 

—  Mr.   Crawford!      A  moment! 

—  Telegraph!     Racing  special! 


The    Little    Review  49 

—  What  is  it?     Myles  Crawford  said,  falling  back  a  pace. 
A  newsboy  cried  in  Mr.  Bloom's  face: 

—  Terrible  tragedy  in  Rathmines!     A  child  bit  by  a  bellows  I 

—  Just  this  ad,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  pushing  through  and  taking 
le  cutting  from  his  pocket.  I  spoke  with  Mr.  Keyes  just  now. 
e'll  give  a  renewal  for  two  months,  he  says.    After  he'll  see.    But 

wants  a  par  to  call  attention  in  the  Telegraph  too,  the  Satur- 
ly  pink.  And  he  wants  it  if  it's  not  too  late.  I  told  councillor 
annetti  from  the  Kilkenny  People.  I  can  get  it  in  the  National 
)rary.  House  of  keys,  don't  you  see?  His  name  is  Keyes.  It's 
play  on  the  name.  But  he  says  he'll  give  the  renewal.  But  he 
ants  the  par.     What  will  I  tell  him,  Mr.  Crawford? 

—  Will  you  tell  him  he  can  kiss  my  arse?  Myles  Crawford 
id,  throwing  out  his  arm  for  emphasis.  Tell  him  that  straight 
dm   the  stable. 

A  bit  nervy.  All  off  for  a  drink.  Lenehan's  yachting  cap  on 
e  cadge  beyond.  Wonder  is  that  young  Dedalus  standing.  Has 
good  pair  of  boots  on  him  today.    Last  time  I  saw  him  he  had 

heels  on  view.  Been  walking  in  muck  somewhere.  Careless 
ap.    What  was  he  doing  in  Irishtown? 

-—  Well,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  his  eyes  returning,  if  I  can  get  the 
sign  I  suppose  it's  worth  a  short  par.  He'd  give  the  ad.  I  think. 
1  tell  him  .... 

—  He  can  kiss  my  royal  Irish  arse,  Myles  Crawford  cried 
idly  over  his  shoulder.     Any  time  he  likes,  tell  him. 

While  Mr.  Bloom  stood  weighing  the  point  and  about  to  smile 
strode  on  jerkily. 

—  Nulla  bona,  Jack,  he  said,  raising  his  hand  to  his  chin. 
ti  up  to  here.    I've  been  through  the  hoop  myself.    I  was  looking 

a  fellow  to  back  a  bill  for  me  no  later  than  last  week.  Sorry, 
ck.    With  a    heart  and  a  half  if  I  could. 

J.  J.  O'Molloy  pulled  a  long  face  and  walked  on  silently 
ley  caught  up  on  the  others  and  walked  abreast. 

—  When  they  have  eaten  the  brawn  and  the  bread  and  wiped 
sir  twenty  ftngers  in  the  paper  the  bread  was  wrapped  in  they  go 
arer  the  railings. 

—  Something  for  you.  the  professor  explained  to  Myles  Craw- 
d.     Two  old  Dublin  women  on  the  top  of  Nelson's  pillar. 

—  That's  new,  Myles  Crawford  said.     Out  for  the  waxies' 


so  The    Little    Review 


Dargle.     Two  old  trickies,  what? 

—  But  they  are  afraid  the  pillar  will  fall,  Stephen  went  on 
They  see  the  roofs  and  argue  about  where  the  different  churche; 
are:  Rathmines'  blue  dome,  Adam  and  Eve's,  saint  Laurencf 
O'Toole's.  But  it  makes  them  giddy  to  look  so  they  pull  u| 
their  skirts 

—  Easy  all,  Myles  Crawford  said.  We're  in  the  archdioces* 
here. 

—  And  settle  down  on  their  striped  petticoats,  peering  u] 
at  the  statue  of  the  onehandled  adulterer. 

—  Onehandled  adulterer!   the  professor  cried.     I  like  that, 
see  the  idea.    I  see  what  you  mean. 

—  It  gives  them  a  crick  in  their  necks,  Stephen  said,  am 
they  are  too  tired  to  look  up  or  down  or  to  speak.  They  put  th 
bag  of  plums  betwen  them  and  eat  the  plums  out  of  it,  one  afte 
another  wiping  off  with  their  handkerchiefs  the  plumjuice  tha 
dribbles  out  of  their  mouths  and  spitting  the  plumstones  slowl 
out  between  the  railways. 

He  gave  a  sudden  loud  young  laugh  as  a  close.  Lenehan  an 
Mr.  O'Madden  Bui^ke,  hearing,  turned,  beckoned  and  led  on  acros 
towards  Mooney's. 

—  Finished?  Myles  Crawford  said.     So  long  as  they  do  n 

worse.  J-    •  1 

—  You  remind  me  of  Antisthenes,  the  professor  said,  a  discipl 
of  Gorgias  the  sophist.  It  is  said  of  him  that  none  could  teir= 
he  were  bitterer  against  others  or  against  himself.  He  was  th 
son  of  a  noble  and  a  bondwoman.  And  he  wrote  a  book  m  whic 
he  took  away  the  palm  of  beauty  from  Argive  Helen  and  handed 
to  poor  Penelope. 

Poor  Penelooe.    Penelope  Rich. 

They  made*  ready  to  cross  O'Connell  street. 

—  But  what  do  you  call  it?    Myles  Crawford  asked.    Whei 

did  they  get  the  plums?  .      , .    ,        ,•         -a 

—  Call  it  wait,  the  professor  said,  openmg  his  long  lips  wid 
to  reflect     Call  it,  let  me  see.    Call  it:  deus  nobis  haec  otia  feet 

—  No,  Stephen  said,  I  call  Jt  A,  Pisgah  Sight  of  Palestine. 

—  I  see,  the  professor  said. 

He  laughed  richly.  ,    , 

_  T  see.  he  said  again  with  new  pleasure.     Moses  and  th 

promised  land.    We  gave  him  that  idea,  he  added  to  J.  J.  O  Mollo> 


The    Little    Review  51 

J  J  .O'MoUoy  sent  a  weary  sidelong  glance  towards  the  statue 
and  held  his  peace. 

—  I  see,  the  professor  said. 

He  halted  on  Sir  John  Gray's  pavement   island  and  i)eered 
aloft  at  Nelson  through  the  meshes  of  his  wry  smile. 

—  Onehandled  adulterer,   he  said  grimly.     That  tickles  me 
I  must  say. 

—  Tickled  the  old  ones  too,  Myles  Crawford  said,  if  the  truth 
was  known. 

{To  be  continued) 


ALBERT  MOCKEL    AND    "LA    WALLONIE" 
Ezra      Pound 

AMONG  the  "rewards"  for  our  February  number  is  a  letter  from 
Albert  Mockel  written  with  a  graciousness  not  often  employed 
by  English  and  American  writers  in  communication  to  their  juniors. 
Indeed  the  present  elder  generation  of  American  "respectable"  au- 
thors having  all  their  lives  approached  so  nearly  to  death,  have  al- 
ways been  rather  annoyed  that  American  letters  did  not  die  utterly  in 
their  personal  dessications.  Signs  of  vitality;  signs  of  interest  in,  or 
cognizance  of,  other  sections  of  this  troubled  planet  have  been  stead- 
ily and  papier-macheedly  deprecated.  The  rubbish  bins  of  Harpers 
and  the  Century  have  opened  their  lids  not  to  new  movements  but 
only  to  the  diluted  imitations  of  new  movers,  etc. 

La  WaUome.  beginning  as  L'Elan  Litteraire  in  1885,  endured 
seven  years  •  It  announced  for  a  full  year  on  its  covers  that  its 
seventh  year  was  its  last.  Albert  Mockel  has  been  gracious  enough  to 
call  it  "Notre  Little  Review  a  nous",  and  to  commend  the  motto  on 
our  cover,  in  the  letter  here  following  : 

109,  Avenue  de  Paris  8  mai  1918 

La  Mahnaison  Rtieil 
Monsieur  et  cher  confrere, 

Merci  de  votre  aimable  envoi.  La  Little  Review  m'est  sympa- 
thique  a  I'extreme.  En  la  feuilletant  j'ai  cm  voir  renaitre  ce  temps 
dore  de  ferveur  et  de  belle  confiance  ovi,  adolescent  encore,  et  taton- 
nant  un  pen  dans  les  neves  regions  de  I'Art,  je  fondai  h.  Liege  notre 
Little  Review  a  nous,  La  Wallonie.     Je   retrouve  justement  quelques 


5>  The    Little    Review 


livraisons  de  cette  revue  et  je  vous  les  envoie;  elles  ont  tout  au  moins 
Ic  merite  de  la  rarete. 

Vou^,  mon  cher  confrere,  deja  ne  marchez  plus  a  tatons  niais  je 
vous  soupQonne  de  n'etre  pas  aussi  terriblement,  aussi  criminellement 
jeune  que  je  I'etais  a  cette  epoque-la.     Et  puis  trente  ans  ont  passe  sur 
la  litterature,  et  c'est  de  la  foHe  d'hier  qu'est  faite  la  sagesse  d'aujourd'- 
hui.     Alors  le  Symbolisme  naissait;  grace  a  la  collaboration  de  mes 
amis,  grace  a  Henri  de   Regnier  et   Pierre   M.   Olin  qui   dirigerent  la 
revue  avec  moi,  La   Wallonie   en   fut  I'un   des  premiers  foyers.     Tout 
etait  remis  en  question.     On  aspirait  a  plus  de  liberte  a  une  forme  plus 
intense  et  plus  complete  plus  musicale  et  puis  souple,  a  une  expression 
nouvelle  de  I'eternelle  beaute.     On  s'ingeniait,  on  cherchait  .  .  .     Ta- 
tonnements?      Certes    et    ils   etaient    inevitables.      Mais   vif    et   ardent 
effort,   desinteressement  absolu,  foi  juvenile   et   surtout  "No   compro- 
mise with  the  public  taste"  .     .     N'y  a-t-il  point  la  quelques  traits  de 
ressemblance  avec    I'oeuvre  que,  vous  tentez  aujourd'hui  en  Amerique, 
et,  a  trente  annees  d'intervale,  une  sorte  de  cousinage?    C'est  pourquoi 
mon  cher  confrere,  j'ai  lu  avec  tant  de  plaisir  la  Little  Review  dont 
vous  avec  eu  lu  gentillesse  de  m'adresser  la  collection. 
Croyez-moi  sympathiquement  votre, 
Albert  Mockel. 
With   a  native  mistrust  of  la  belle  phrase;   of  "temps  dore",  "fer- 
veur",  "belle  confiance^',  etc.,  and  with  an  equally  native  superiority  to 
any  publication   not   printed   LARGE  ,    I   opened  La   Wallonie  .  The 
grppings,  "tatonnements",  to  which  M.  Mockel  so  modestly  refers,  ap- 
pear to  have  included  some  of  the  best  work  of  Mallarme,  of  Stuart 
Merrill,  of  Max  Elskamp  and  Emile  Verhaeren.     Verlaine  contributed 
to  La  IVaUonie,  De  Regnier  was  one  of  its  editors  .  .  .  Men  of  since 
popular  fame  —  Bourget.  Pierre  Louys,  Maeterlinck  —  appeared  with 
the  rarer  spirits. 

If  ■ever  the  "amateur  magazine"  in  the  sense  of  magazine  by  lovers 
of  art  and  letters,  for  lovers  of  art  and  letters,  in  contempt  of  the 
commerce  of  letters,  has  vindicated  itself,  that  vindication  was  La 
Wallonie.  Verhaeren's  "Les  Pauvres"  (which  we  gave  in  our  Febru- 
ary issue)  first  appeared  there  as  the  second  part  of  series:  "Chansons 
des  Carrefours,"  (Jan  '02)  .  .  .  The  Elskamp  I  have  just  quoted  ap- 
peared there  with  other  poems  of  Max  Elskamp.  Mallarme  is  rep- 
resented   by   the    exquiste: 

Sonnet  '  "' 

'"'^"  Ses  purs  ongles  tres  haut  dediant  leur  onyx, 

^rV"""  L'Angoisse  ce  minuit,  soutient,  lampadophore,     j       ...,  ,ij 


The    Little    Review  53 

Maint  reve  vesperal  brule  par  le  phenix 
(Juc  lie  rccuoillc  pas  dc  cincraire  amphore 

Sur  les  credences,  au  salon  vide:  mil  ptyx^ 
Aboli  bibelot  d'inanite  sonore, 
(Car  le  maitre  est  alle  puiser  des  pleurs  au  Styx 
Avec  ce  seul  objet  dont  le  Neant  s'honore.) 

Mais  proche  la  croisee  au  nord  vacante,  un  or 
Agonise  selon  peut-etre  le  decor  ' 

Des    licornes   ruant    du    feu   contre    une    nixe, 

Elle,  defunte  nue  en  le  miroir  encor 

Que,  dans  I'oubli  ferme  par  le  cadre,  se  fixe 

De  scintillations  Sitot  le  septuor. 

— Mnllaniic  in  "f-ci   IVallonic"  Jan.  1889. 

An   era   of   Franco-Anglo-American   intercourse   is   marked   by  his 
address  to: 

The     Whirlwind 

Pas  les  rafales  a  propos 
De  rien  comme  occuper  la  rue 
Sujette  au  noir  vol  des  chapeaux; 
Mais  une  danseuse  apparue 

Tourbillon  de  mousseline  ou 
Fureur  eparses  en  ecumes 
Que  souleve  par  son  genou 
Celle  meme  dont  nous  vecumes 

Pour  tout,  hormis  lui,  rebattu 
Spirituelle,  ivre,   immobile 
Foudroyer  avec  le  tutu, 
Sans  se  faire  autrement   de   bile 

Sinon  rieur  que  puisse  I'air 
De  sa  jupe  eventer  Whistler. 

—  Mallarme  in  "IVallome^',  Nov-  1890 

If  I  owe  Albert  Mockel  a  great  debt  in  having  illuminated  my  eye 
for  Elskamp  I  ow^e  him  no  less  the  pleasure  of  one  of  Merrill's  most 
delicato  triumphs  in  the  opening  of 


54 


The    Little    Review 


Ballet 

Pour  Gustave  Moreau 
En  casque  de  cristal  rose  les  baladines, 
Dont  les  pas  mesures  aux  cordes  des  kinnors 
Tintent  sous  les  tissus  dc  tulle  roidis  d'ors, 
Kxultent  de  leurs  yeux  pales  de  xaladines. 

Toisons  fauves  sur  leurs  levres  incarnadines, 
Bras  lourds  de  bracelets  barbares,  en  essors 
Moelleux  vers  la  lueur  lunaire  des  decors, 
Elles   murmurent   en  malveillantes   sourdines: 

"Nous  sommes.  6  mortels,  danseuses  du  Desir, 

Salomes  dont  les  corps  tordus  par  le  plaisir 

Leurrent  vos  heurs  d'amour  vers  nos  pervers  arcanes. 

Prosternez-vous  avec  des  hosannas,  ces  soirs! 
Car,  surgissant  dans  des  aurores  d'encensoirs, 
Sur  nos  cymbales  nous  ferons  tonner  vos  cranes-" 
Stuart  Merrill  in  "La   Wallonie",  July  '98. 

The  period  was  "glaque"  and  "nacre",  it  had  its  pet  and  too-petted 
adjectives,  the  handles  for  parody;  but  it  had  also  a  fine  care  for 
sound>  for  sound  fine-wrought,  not  mere  swish  and  resonant  rumble, 
not  "Dolores,   O   hobble   and  kobble   Dolores  . 

O  perfect  obstruction  on  track." 

The  particular  sort  of  fine  workmanship  shown  in  this  sonnet  of 
Merrill's  has  of  late  been  too  much  let  go  by  the  board. 

Hanton  is  gently  didactic: 

Le     Bon     Grain 

"Deja  peinent  maints  moissonneurs  dont 
la  memoire  est  destinee  a  vivre." 
Celestin   Demblon. 

Amants  des  rythmes  en  des  strophes  cadencees, 
Des  rimes  rares  aux  splendeurs  evocatoires, 
Laissant  en  eux  comme  un  echo  de  leurs  pensees, 
Comme  un  parfum  de  leurs  symboles  en  histoires: 

Tels  les  poetes  vont  cherchant  en  vrais  glaneurs 
Les  blonds  epis  qui  formeront  leur  riche  ecrin. 


The    Little    Re  vie 


w 


55 


lis  choisiront,  comme  fcraient  les  bons  vanneurs, 
Parmi  les  bles  passes  an  crible,  le  beau  grain. 

Et  germera  cette  semence  bifen  choisie, 
Entre  les  roses  et  les  lys,  pour  devenir 
Riche  moisson  de  la  fertile  fantaisie. 

L'ardent  soleil  de  Messidor  fera  jaunir 

Les  tiges  souples  d'une  forte  poesie 

Qui  dresseront  leurs  fiers  epis  vers  I'avenir! 

—  Edmond    Hanton  in  "La  IVallonie",  July  '88. 

Delaroche  is,  at  least  ir(  parts,  utterly  incomprehensible,  but  there 
an  interesting  experiment  in  sound-sequence  which  begins: 

Sonnets     S y m p h o n i q u e s 

En  la  langueur 

accidentelle 

de  ta  dentelle 

oil  meurt  mon  coeur 

Un  profil  pleure 
et  se  voit  tel 
en  le  pastel 
du  divin  leurre 

Qu'or  vegetal 
de  lys  s'enlise 
au  froid  santal 

Si  n'agonise 
occidental 
qui  s'adonise. 

—  Achille  Delaroche  in  "La  IVallonie",  Feb.  '89. 

I  do  not  know  that  we  will  now  be  carried  away  by  Albert  Saint- 
lul's  chinoiserie,  or  that  she-devils  are  so  much  in  fashion  as  when 
les  Bois  expended,  certainly,  some  undeniable  emotion  in  addressing 


em  : 


Petales     de     Nacre 

En  sa  robe  oii  s'immobilisent  les  oiseaux^ 

Une  emerge  des  fleurs  comme  une  fleur  plus  grande. 


56  The    Lit  tit    Review 

Comme  une  fleur  penchee  aii  sourire  de  I'eaii, 
Ses  mains  viennent  tresser  la  trainante  guirlande 
*  Pour  enchainer  le  Dragon  verte  —  et  de  legende! 

Qui  de  ses  griffes  d'or  dechire  les  roseaux, 

Les  faisceaux  de  roseaux:  banderolles  et  lances. 

Et  quand  le  soir  empourprera  le  fier  silence 
J       De  la  foret  enjoleuse  de  la  Douleur, 

Ses  doigts,  fuseaux  filant  au  rouet  des  murmures 
Les  beaux  anneaux  fleuris  liant  les  fleurs  aux  fleurs, 

Ses  doigts  n'auront  saigne  qu'aux  epines  peu  dures. 

—  Albert  Saint-Paul  in  "La  Wallonie",  Jan.  '91. 

Pour    la    Demone 

Un  soir  de  joie,  un  soir  d'ivresse,  un  soir  de  fete, 
—  Et  quelle  fete,  et  quelle  ivresse,  et  quelle  joie!  — 
Tu  vins.     L'imperial  ennui  sacrait  ta  tete; 
Et  tu  marchais  dans  un  bruit  d'armure  et  de  soie. 

Tu  dedaignas  tous    les  bijoux  et  I'oripeau 
De  ruban,  de  dentelle  et  d'ephemere  fieur.  .  . 
Hermetique,  *  ta  robe  emprisonnait  ta  peau. 
Oui,  la  fourrure  seule  autour  de  ta  paleur. 

Tu  iparus.    Sous  tes  yeux  que  le  kh'ol  abomine, 

Le  bal  fut  la  lugubre  et  derisoire  histoire. 

Les  hommes  des  pantins  qu'un  vice  mene  et  mine;. 

Les  femmes,  coeurs  et  corps  fanes, et  quel  deboire! 

*  Laforgue? 

Pour    la     Demone 

V. 
Elle  est  folle,  c'est  sur,  elle  est  folle  la  chere; 
Elle  m'aime  a  n'en  pas  douter,  mais  elle  est  folle, 
Elle  m'aime  et,  compatissez  a  ma  misere, 
Avec  tous,  avec  toutes^  elle  batifole. 

Uin  passe.  .  .     Elle  s'elance  a  lui,  coeur  presume.  . 
Elle  s'offre  et  le  provoque,  puis  elle  fuit 
Vers  ailleurs  ...  si  fidele  encore  au  seul-aime, 
Mais  elle  est  folle  et  je  m'eplore  dans  la  nuit. 


The    Little    Review 


57 


Pour  quelque  amie  aux  delicatesses  felines, 

Elle  glisse  vers  les  caresses  trop  profondes. 

...  "Tu  vas,  folle,  oublier  mes  rancoeurs  orphelines." 

Mais  sa  levre  pensive  hesite  aux  toisons  blondes. 

—  Jules  Bois  in  "La  WaUouie",  Sept.  '90. 

In  part  we  must  take  our  reading,  of  La  JVallonie  as  a  study  of  the 

te  of  symbolism  from  1885  to  '92. 
Rodenbach    displays    the    other    leaf    of    the    diptych:    the    genre, 
homely  Wallon   landscape,  more  familiar   to   the   outer  world   in 

haeren,  but  not  I  think,  better  painted. 

Paysages     Souf  f  r  ants 
II. 

A    Emile   Verhacren. 
La-bas,  tant  de  petits  hameaux  sous  I'avalanche 
De  la  neige  qui  tombe  adoucissante  et  blanche, 
Tant  de  villages,  tant  de  chaumines  qui  sont 
Pour  le  reste  d'un  soir  doucement  assoupies. 
Car  le  neige  s'etend  en  de  molles  charpies 
Sur  les  blessures  des  vieilles  brigues  qui  n'ont 
fiien  senti  d'une  Soeur  sur  leur  rougeur  qui  saigne! 
Mais,  6  neige,  c'est  toi  la  Soeur  au  halo  blanc 
Qui  consoles  les  murs  malades  qu'on  dedaigne 
Et  metsun  peu  d'ouate   aux  pierres   s"eraflant. 

Las!  rien  ne  guerira  les  chaumines  —  aieules 
Qui  meurent  de  I'hiver  et  meurent  d'etre  seules.  .  . 
.   Et  leurs  ames  bientot,  au  gre  des  vents  du  nord. 
Dans  la  fumee  aux  lents  departs,  seront  parties 
Cependant  que  la  neige,  a  I'heure  de  leur  mort, 
Leur  apporte  ses  rafraichissantes  hosties! 

—  Georges  Rodenbach  in  "La  U'allonie".  Jan.  '88. 

Rodenbach  is  authentic. 

Viele-Griffin   who,   as   Stuart   Merrill,  has  always   been   known    i' 
ice   as   "an   American"   contributed  largely    to   La    IVallonie.     His 
Tombeau  d'Helene"  ends 

H  e  1  e  n  e 

Me  voici: 

J'etais  la  des   hier,  et  des   sa  veille, 


jg  The    Little    Review 


Ailleurs,  ici; 

Toute  chair,  a  pare,  un  soir,  nion  ame  vieille 

Comme  leternite  du  desir  que  tu  vets. 

La   nuit   est   claire   au   firmament  .   .  . 

Regarde  avec  tes  yeux  leves: 

Voici  —  comme  un  tissu  de  pale  feu  fatal 

Qui  fait  epanouir  la  fleur  pour  la  fletrir  — 

Men  voile   ou  transparait  tout   assouvissement 

Qui  t'appelle  a  la  vie  et  qui  t'en  fait  mourir. 

La  nuit  est  claire  au  firmament  vital  .  .  . 

Mes  mythes,  tu  les  sais: 
Je  suis  fille  du  Cygne, 
Je  suis  la  lune  dont  s'exuberent  les  mers 
Qui  montent,  tombent,   se   soulevent; 
Et  c'est  le  flot  de  vie  exultante  et  prostree. 
le  flot  des  reves,  » 

le  flot   des   chairs, 
.  le  flux  et  le  reflux  de  la  vaste  maree. 

Mon  doute  —  on  dit  I'Espoir  —  fait  I'action  insigne: 

Je  suis  reine  de  Sparte  et  celle-la  de  Troie, 

Par  moi,  la  douloureuse  existence  guerroie 

Je  meus  toute  inertie  aux  leurres  de  ma  joie,  ^ 

Helene,  Selene,  flottant  de  phase  en  phase. 

Je  suis  I'Inaccedee  et  la  tierce  Hypostase 

Et  si  je  rejetais,  desir  qui  m'y  convies, 

Mon  voile  qui  promet  et  refuse  I'extase, 

Ma  nudite  de  feu  resorberait  les  Vies  .... 

—Viele-Griffin  in  "La  WaUonie",  Dec.  '91. 
(Complete  number  devoted  to  his  poems). 

Mockel  is  represented  by  several  poems  rather  too  long  to  qu 
—  "Chantefable  un  peu  naive".  "L'Atithese",  suggestive  of  the  G( 
mont  litany;  by  prose  comment,  by  work  over  various  pseudony 
"A  Clair  Matin"  is  a  suitable  length  to  quote,  and  it  is  better  perl 
to  represent  him  here  by  it  than  by  fragments  which  I  had 
intended  to  cut  from  his  longer  poems. 

A     Clair     Matin 

La  nuit  au  loin  s'est  effacee 

comme  les  lignes  tremblantes  d'un  reve; 


The    Little    Review  59 

la  nuit  s'est  fondue  au  courant  du  Passe 
et  le  jour  attendu  se  leve. 

Regrardez!  en  les  courbes  molles  des  rideaux 
Une  heure  attendue  se  revele 
et  ma  fenetre  ^nfin   s'eclaire, 
cristalline  du  givre  ou  se  rit  la  lumiere. 

Une    parure    enfantine    de    neiges 

habille   la-bas   d'immobiles   eaux 

et  c'est  les  corteges  des  fees  nouvelles 

a  tire  d'ailes-.  a  tire  d'ailes 

du  grand  lointain  qui  toutes  reviennent 

aux  flocons  de  ce  jour  en  neiges  qui  s'epele. 

Des   courbes   de   mes   rideaux   clairs 

—  voici!  c'est  un  parfum  de  ciel!  — 
blanc  des  guirlandes  de  I'hiver 

le  jeune  matin  m'est  apparu 
avec    un    visage    de    fiancee. 

r 

Des  fees 

(ah    ie   ne    sais   ouelles   xnnrtelles   fees) 

jadis    elles   vinrent   toucher   la   paupiere 

d'un  etre  enfantin  qui  mourut. 

Son  ame,  011  se  jouait  en  songes  la  lumiere, 

diaphane    corolle    epanouie    au   jour 

sou   ame  etait  vive   de   toute  lumiere! 

Lui,  comme  un  frere  il  suivait  ma  course 

et  nous  allions  en  confiants  de  la  montagne  a  la  vallee 

par  les  forets  des  chenes,  des  hetres 

—  car  eux,  les  ancetres.  ils  ont  le  front  grave 
ils  virent  maints  reves  des  autres  ages 

et  nous  parlent,  tres  doucement,  comme  nos  Peres. 

Mais  voyez!  a  mes  rideaux  pales 

le  matin  glisse  des  sourires; 

car  la  fiancee  est  venue 

car  la  fiancee  est  venue 

avec  un  simple  et  tres  doux  visage, 

avec  des  mots  qu'on  n'entend  pas, 

en  silence  la  Fiancee  est  apparue 

comme  une  grande  soeur  de  I'enfant  qui  mourut; 


6o  The    Little    Review 


et   les   hetres,   les   chenes   royaux   des   forets 
par  douce  vocalise  egrenant  leur  parure, 
les  voix  res;3uscitees  en  la  plaine  sonore 
et  toute  la  foret  d'aurore 

quand  elle  secoue  du  crepuscule  sa  chevelure, 
tout  chante,  bruit,  petille  et  rayonne 
car  la  celeste  Joie  que  la  clarte  delivre 
d'un  hymne  repercute  aux  miroirs  du  futur 
le  front  pale  ou  scintille  en  etoiles  le  givre. 

Albert  Mockel  in  "La  Wallonie",  Dernier  fascimile  '92. 

I  have  left  Gide  and  Van  Lerberghe  unquoted,  unmentioned,  but  I 
have,  I  dare  say,  given  poems  enough  to  indicate  the  quality  and  the 
scope  of  the  poetry  in  La   Wallonie. 

In  prose  their  cousinage  is  perhaps  more  quickly  apparent.  Al- 
most the  first  sentence  I  come  upon  (I  suspect  it  is  Mockel's)  runs  as 
follows : 

"La  Revue  des  deux  Moiides  publie  un  roman  de  Georges 
Ohnet.  ce  qui  ne  surprendra  personne.". 
This  is  the  proper  tone  to  use  v^rhen  dealing  with  elderly  mutton- 
heads;  with  the  Harpers  of  yester  year.  La  Wallonie  found  it  out  in  the 
eighties.  The  symboliste  movement  flourished  on  it.  American  let- 
ters did  not  flourish,  partly  perhaps  for  the  lack  of  it,  and  for  the  lack 
of  unbridled  uncompromising  magazines  run  by  young  men  who  did 
not  care  for  reputations  surfaites,  for  elderly  stodge  and  stupidity. 

Tf  we  turn  to  Mockel's  death  notice  for  Jules  Laforgue  we  will 
find  La  Wallonie  in  '87  awake  to  the  value  of  contemporary  achieve- 
ment. 

Jules     Laforgue 

Nous  apprenons  avec  une  vive  tristesse,  la  mort  de  Jules  La- 
forgue, I'un  des  plu?  curieux  poetes  de  la  litterature  aux  visees  nou- 
velles.  Nous  I'avons  designe,  ja  deux  mois:  un  Tristan  Corbiere  plus 
argentin.  moins  apre  .  .  .  Et  telle  est  bien  sa  caracteristique.  Sans 
le  moindre  soupqon  d'imitation  ou  de  reminiscences,  Jules  La- 
forgue a  sauvegarde  une  originalite  vivace.  Seulement,  cette  origi- 
nalite,  par  bien  des  saillies,  louche  a  celle  de  Tristan  Corbiere.  C'est 
une  meme  raillerie  de  la  Vie  et  du  Monde;  mais  plus  de  sombre  et 
virile  amertume  emouvait  en  I'auteur  des  Amours  Jaunes,  dont  cette 
piece  donnera  quelque  idee:  > 


The    Little    Review  6i 


LE     CRAPAUD 

Un   chant   dans   une   nuit   sans   air  .  '.   . 

—  La  lune  plaque   en   metal   clair 
Les  decoupures   du  vert  sombre. 
....  Un  chant;  comme  un  echo,  tout  vif 

Enterre,  la,  sous  le  massif  .  .  . 

—  Ce  se  tait;  viens,  c'est  la,  dans  I'ombre  .  .  . 
Un  crapaud! 

—    Pourquoi    cette    peur, 
Pres  de  moi,  ton  soldat  fidele! 
Vois-le,  poete   tondu,  sans  aile, 
Rossignol  de  la?  boue      ■  ■  • 
—  Horreur!  — 
...  II  chante.  —  Horreur  !  !  —  Horreur  pourquoi? 
Vois-tu  pas  son  oeil  de  lumihre  ... 
Non,  il  s'en  va,  froid,  sous   sa  pierre. 

Bonsoir  . —  ce  crapaud-la  c'est  moi. 

Chez  Laforgue,,  il  y  a  plus  de  gai  sans-souci,  de  coups  de  batte 
ie  pierrot  donnes  a  toutes  choses,  plus  de  "vaille-que-vaille  la  vie", 
lit  d'un  air  de  moqueuse  resignation.  Sa  rancoeur  n'est  pas  encom- 
)rante.  II  etait  un  peu  I'enfant  indiscipline  qui  rit  a  travers  les  gron- 
ieries,  et  fait  la  moue  a  sa  fantaisie;  mais  son  haussement  d'epaules 
jamin,  et  ses  "Apres  tout?"  qu'il  jette  comme  une  chiquenaude  au 
isage  du  Temps,  cachent  toujours  au  fond  de  son  coeur  un  lac  me- 
ancolique,  un  lac  de  tristesse  et  d'amours  fletris,  ovi  vient  se  refleter 
;a   claire  imagination.     Temoins   ces  fragments  pris  aux  Coniplaintes: 

Mon  coeur  est  une  urne  ou  j'ai  mis  certains  defunts, 
Oh!  chut,  refrains  de  leurs  berceaux!    et  vous,  parfums. 

Mon  coeur  est  un   Neron,  enfant  gate  d'Asie, 
Qui  d'empires  de  reye  en  vain  se  rassasie. 
Mon  coeur  est  un  noye  vide  d'ame  et  d'essors, 
Qu'etreint  la  pieuvre  Spleen  en  ses  ventouses  d'or. 
C'est  un  feu  d'artifice,  helas!    qu'avant  la  fete, 
A  noye  sans  retour  I'averse  qui  s'embete. 
Mon  coeur  est  le  terrestre  Histoire-Corbillard 
Que  trainent  au  neant  I'instinct  et  le  hazard. 
Mon  coeur  est  une  horloge  oubli^e  a  demeure 


62  The  Little  Review 


Qui,  me  sachant  defunt,  s'obstine  a  marquer  I'heure. 

.  j.  R  I  I 

Et  toujours  mon  coeur  ayant  ainsi  declame,  » 

En  revient  a  sa  complainte:    Aimer,  etre  aime! 

Et   cette  piece,  d'une  ironie  concentree: 

COMPLAINTE    DES    BONS    MENACES 

L'Art  sans  poitrine  m'a  trop  longtemps  berce  dupe. 
Si  ses  labours  sont  fiers,  que  ses  bles  decevants! 
Tiens,  laisse-moi  beler  tout  aux  plis  de  ta  jupe 

Qui  fleure  le  couvent. 
LTa  Genie  avec  moi,  serf,  a  fait  des  manieres; 
Toi,  jupe,  fais  frou-frou,  sans  t'inquieter  pourquoi  .  .  . 

Mais  I'Art,  c'est  I'lnconnu!    qu'on  y  dorme  et  s'y  vautre, 
On  ne  pent  pas  I'avoir  constamment  sur  les  bras! 
Et  bien,  menage  au  vent!     Soyons  Lui,  Elle  et  I'Autre- 

Et    puis    n'insistons    pas. 

Et    puis?      et    puis    encore    un    pied    de    nez    melancolique    a    1 

destinee:  

Qui  m'aima  jamais?     Je  m'entete 
Sur  ce  refrain  bien  impuissant 
Sans  songer  que  je  suis  bien  bete 
De  me  faire  du  mauvais  sang; 

Jules  Laforgue  a  public  outre  les  Complaintes,  un  livret  de  vei 
degingandes,  d'une  raillerie  splenetique,  a  froid,  comme  celle  qi 
sied  aux  hommes  du  Nord.  Mais  il  a  su  y  ajouter  ce  sans-facon  c 
choses  dites  a  I'aventure,  et  tout  un  parfum  de  lumiere  argentin 
comme  les  rayons  de  Notre-Danie  la  Lune  qu'il  celebre.  Le  manqi 
de  place  nous  prive  d'en  citer  quelques  pages.  Nous  avons  lu  aus 
cette  etrange  Nuit  d'Etoiles:  le  Council.  Feerique,  un  assez  court  poen 
edite  par  la  "Vogue;"  divers  articles  de  revue,  entre  lesquels  cette  paj 
ensoleillee,  parue  dans  la  Revue  Independante:  Pan  et  la  Syrinx 
Enfin  un  nouveau  livre  etait  annonce:  de  la  Pitie,  de  la  Pitiel,  d6ji 
prepare  par  I'une  des  Invocations  du  volume  precedent,  et  dont  noi 
croyons  voir  I'idee  en  ces  vers  des  Complaintes: 

Vendange  chez  les  Arts  enfantins;  sois  en  fete 
D'une  fugue,  d'un  mot,  d'un  ton,  d'un  air  de  tete. 


The    Little    Review  63 


Vivre  et  peser  selon  le  Beau,  le  Bien,  le  Vrai? 
O  parfums,  6  regards,  6  fois!     soit,  j'essaierai. 

.  .  .  Va,  que  ta  seule  etude 
Soit   de   vivre  sans   but,   fou   de   mansuetude  — 

—  Albert  Mockel  in  "La  Wallonie",  1887. 

I  have  quoted  but  sparingly,  and  I  have  thought  quotation 
ter  than  comment,  but  despite  the  double  meagreness  I  think  I 
e  given  evidence   that  La   IVaUonie  was  worth   editing . 

It   began   as   L'EIan   Liiterairc   with    16  pages,   and  an   edition   of 

copies;   it  should  convince  any  but   the  most  stupid  that  size  is 

the  criterion  of  permanent  value,  and  that  a  small  magazine  may 
last  much  bulkier  printings. 

After   turning   the    pages    of   La    WaUonie,   perhaps   after   reading 
n  this   so  brief  excerpt,   one   is  ready  to   see   some  sense   in   even 
yric  a  phrase  as  "temps  dore,  de  ferveur  et  de  belle  confiance". 
In    their   seven  years'   run    these   editors,   one   at   least  beginning 
lis  "teens",  had  published  a  good  deal  of  the  best  of  Verhaeren, 

published  work  by  Elskamp,  Merrill,  Griffin,  Louys,  Maeterlinck, 
laine.  Van  Lerberghe,  Gustave  Kahn,  Moreas,  Quillard,  Andre 
e;  had  been  joined  in  their  editing  board  by  De  Regnier^  (remem- 
that  they  edited  in  Liege,  not  in  Paris;  thy  were  not  at  the  hub  of 

universe,*  but   in    the    heart    of   French    Belgium);    they   had   not 

e  any  compromise.     Permanent  literature,  and  the  seeds  of  per- 

ent  literature,  had  gone  through  proof-sheets  in  their  office. 

There  is  perhaps  no  greater  pleasure  in  life,  and  there  certainly 

have  been  no  greater  enthusiasm  than  to  have  been  young  and  to 

i  been  part  of  such  a  group  of  writers  working  in  fellowship  at 

beginning  of  such  a  course,  of  such  a  series  of  courses  as  were 

icated  in  La  WaUonie. 

If   the   date   is   insufficiently   indicated   by   Mallarme's    allusion    to 

stler,  we  may  turn  to  the  art  notes: 

"eaux-fortes  de  Mile  Mary  Cassatt     .  .  Lucien  Pissaro,  Sisley 

)graphies  de  Fantin-Latour  ....  Odillon  Redon." 

"J'ai  ete  un  peu  a  Paris,  voir  Burne  Jones,  Moreau,  Delacroix  . 

anse  du  ventre,  et  les  adorables  Javanaises.     C'est  mon  meilleur 

enir,    ces    filles    "tres    parees"    dans    I'etrange    demi-jour    de    leur 

et  qui  tournent  lentement  dans  la  stridente  musique  avec  de  si 
matique    inflexions    de    mains    et    de    si    souriantes   poursuites    les 

dans  les  yeux  ". 


4 


64  T  h  e    Li  1 1  le    Review 


Prose  poetry,  that  doubtful  connection,  appears  at  times  e 
to  advantage: 

"Selene,  toi  I'essence  et  le  regard  des  infinis,  ton  mal  nous 
rait  la  felicite  supreme.  O  viens  a  nous,  Tanit,  Vierge  Tanit,  f! 
metallique  epanouie  aux  plaines  celestes!"  —  Mockel. 

THE   READER  CRITIC 

Danish   Consulate,   Paris: 

Little  Review  ....  desperate  camouflage,  noble  but  fi 
attempt  to  make  it  look  as  if  America  had  an  intellectual  life. 

3".  A.,  Neuilly,  Seine  et  Ois?: 

Je  vous  remercie  de  m'avoir  revele  Laforgue  que  je  connaii 
seulcment  par  les  extraits  publics  dans  la  premiere  Anthologie  ■ 
volume  par  Van  Bever  et  Leautaud. 

The    Audience 

"Art  should  conceal  art",  said  the  parrot. 

"Art  is  ennobling",  said  the  parrot. 

"Art   is   the   ultimate   combustion    of   the    social-consciousnes 
the  proletariat  into   the  fine  flower  of  penultimate   culture;  it  is 
expression  of  the  soul-wave  into  the  infinite  of  the  ununderstan( 
je  ne  sais  quoi",  said  the  parrot- 
Damn  the  parrot! 

Damn  the  parrot,  although  there  is  a  faint  dilutation  of  veri 
each  of  these  three  remarks. 

The   "Heroic   Deads" 

Stanislaw  Szukalski,  Chicago : 

....  to  Hi3  Brightness  the  Pound! 

I  read  your  criticism  on  my  drawings  printed  in  "L.  R." 
Your  remarks  are  very  good  and  I  agree  with  you  to  each  - 
however  you  even  did  not  say  all  .  .  .  only  observations  we 
obvious  that  after  hearing  much  of  heroic  deads  I  am  greatlj 
appointed  to  see  Heracles  straining  his  divine  "I  can"  on  era 
nut  .  .  .     He  pushed  himself  against  wall— but  fell  through  for  i 

made  of  tissue  paper. 

Your  applauding 

Ssukalsk 


jWmmWmM 

THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF   PIANOS 

Jltejim&^nrlmOIa 

313    FIFTH   AVENUE 

NEW   YORK 

ELKIN  MATHEWS,  Publisher  and  Vendor  of  Choice  and  Rare 
Editions  in  Belles  Lettres.  4a  Cork  Street,  London  W.  i. 

Note  to  Collectors 

1  arly  editions  of  Mr.  Pound's  books,  as  follows; 

A  Lume  Spento  (Antonelli,  Venice,  1908).    Last  copy  sold  at  £8. 

Quinzaine  (Pollock,  1908),  unobtainable. 

Qmnzaine  (my  edition),  unobtainable. 

Personae  (1909),  published  at  2/6.  a  few  copies  (postage  included) 

?i.25. 

Exultations  (1909),  published  at  2/6,  a  few  copies  (postage  in- 
cluded) $1.25. 

Ciinzoni  (1911),  not  to  be  reissued.    $1.00  (postage  included). 

Personae  and  Exultations,  in  one  volume,  1913;  none  remain. 

C^anzoni  and  Ripostes,  in  one  volume,  1913.  25  copies  remain. 
$1.25  ( postage  included) . 

Lustra  (private  edition,  124  pages),  19 16,  with  photogravure.  21 
copies  offered  at  $3.00  (postage  included). 

Lustra  (public  edition  with  photogravure),  116  pages,  $1.50,  postage 
included,  binding  in  heavy  canvass. 


ivber  number: 

..,,-  ..:,. .:  Spire 

'  j:ie  poems  by  Ezra  Po' 
.    i ,:  V  icw  of  H.  D.'s  Choruses  ironi  iiunpiaes 
^-  y  by  Ben  Hecht 
ary  Letter- 
.0  i'ariff  and  Copyright 
'rounding  Ezra"  by  Ben  Hech^ 

;. December  will  be  smother  .\raerican  number 

Ko  Oihei-  Typewriter 
CeoiDoTMs^— 

Enable    the    amateur    to   write    as    neat-appearing   letters 
jfom    the    very    beginning    as    the    experienced    operator 

The    only    typewriter   that   can   do    this    is   the 

Multiplex  Hammond 

"Writing  Machine" 

Manx  Ty[^c:i'rifers  in   One 


Two    styles    of    type    or    twc 
■''Tdfnt  languages  always  on  i'^^^ 
riPLEX.      Any   other 

;i)stituted  -v*'  seconds. 

Fill  in  the  coupon  and  mail  u.- 
.i->ir    \Vp  -will  send  you  our  "'=" 
!.E   FOLDER. 


HAMMOND  TYPEWRITER  COMPANY 

558A  East  69th  Street  —  New  York  City 

/'',/■(  ^-^   smuj  lilri'dliire  in/ihout   ohiipatlon   to: 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF   THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


l/ilL.. 


Devoted  chiefly  to  Ezra  Pound  .  .  . 


THE    LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
V/HO  WRITE  THE   OTHERS 


NOVEMBER,  1918 

Nine  Poems  h^ra  Pound 

Mr.  Villerant's  Morning  Outburst    (tour  Letters) 
Two  Poems  Andre  Spire 

H.  D.'s  Choruses  from  Euripides  E.  P. 

Tariff  and  Copyright  Ezra  Pound 

Memorabilia  Ezra  Pound 

Notes  of  Music,  Books,  and  the  Theatre 

Margaret  Anderson 
A  List  of  Books  John  Rodker 

An  International  Episode  jh 

Pounding  Ezra  Ben  Hecht 

Major  Robert  Gregory  William  Butler  Yeats 

The  Disease  of  "American"  "Criticism" 
The  Reader  Critic 

Copyright,    1918,    by    Margaret   Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 

EZRA   POUND,   London  Editor 
JULES    ROMAINS,    French    Editor 

Foreign  office : 
5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London   VV.  8. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English,  12/-  a  year. 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York    N.  Y., 

under  the  act  March  3,  iSyg. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

^l.  V.  NOVEMBER,  1918  No.  7 

NINE    POEMS 

Ezra    Pound 

Cantus    Planus 

The  black  panther  lies  under  his  rose  tree 
And  the  fawns  come  to  sniff  at  his  sides: 

Evoe,  Evoe,  Evoe  BaccJio  O 
ZAGREUS,  Zagreus,  Zagreus, 

The  black  panther  lies  under  his  rose  tree. 

Hesper  adest.     Hesper     adest.     Hesper 
adest. 

ChansonArabe 

I  have  shaken  with  love  half  the  night. 
The  winter  rain  falls  in  the  street. 
She  is  but  half  my  age; 

Whither,  whither  am  I  going? 
I  have  shaken  with  love  half  the  night. 
She  is  but  half  my  age. 

Whither,  whither  am  I  going? 

Dawn    on    the    Mountain 

Peach  flowers  turn  the  dew  crimson. 

Green  willows  melt  in  the  mist, 

The  servant  will  not  sweep  up  the  fallen  petals. 

And  the  nightingales 
Persist  in  their  singing  . 

Omakitsu 


The    Little    Review 


Wine 

Dew,  dear  as  gilt  jewels,  hangs  under  the  garden  grass-blades. 

Swift  is  the  year,  swift  is  the  coming  cold  season  , 
Life  swift  as  the  dart  of  a  bird  : 

Wine  ,  wine  ,  wine  for  a  hundred  autumns  , 
And  tlien  on  wine  ,  no  wine ,     and  no  wine  , 

Rihaku 

^avoirotia 
I. 

ROSE    WHITE,    YELLOW,    SILVER 

I'he  swirl  of  light  follows  me  through  the  square, 

The  smoke  of  incense 

Mounts  from  the  four  horns  of  my  bed-posts, 

The  water-jet  of  gold  light  bears  us  up  through  the  ceilings, 

Lapped  in  the  gold-coloured  flame  I  descend  through  the  aether. 

The  silver  ball  forms  in  my  hand, 

It  falls  and  rolls  at  your  feet.  , 

IL 

SALTUS      . 

The  swirling  sphere  has  opened 

and  you  are  caught  up  to  the  skies, 
You  are  englobed  in  my  sapphire.  ■ 

lo!     lo! 

You  have  perceived  the  blades  of  the  flame 
The  flutter  of  sharp-edged  sandals 

The  folding  and  lapping  brightness 
Has  held  in  the  air  before  you. 

You  have  perceived  the  leaves  of  the  flame. 


The    Little    Review 


III 

CON  CAVA      VALLIS 

Tlhe  wire-like  bands  of  colour  involute 

mount  from  my  fingers, 
I  have  wrapped  the  wind  round  your  shoulders 
And  the  molten  metal  of  your  shoulders 

bends  into  the  turn  of  the  wind, 

AOI  ! 

The  whirling  tissue   of   light 

is  woven  and  grows  solid  beneath  us; 
The  sea-clear  sapphire  of  air,  the  sea-dark  clarity, 

stretches  both  sea-cliff  and  ocean. 


Glamour    and    Indigo* 

A  Canzon  from  the  Provencal  of  "En  Ar.  Dan' el" 

I 

Sweet  cries  and  cracks 

and  lays  and  chants  inflected 
By  auzels  who,  in  their  latin  belikes, 
Chirme  each  to  each,  even  as  you  and  I 
Pipe  toward  those  girls  on  whom  our  thoughts  attract; 
Are  but  more  cause  that  I,  whose  overweening 
Search  is  toward  the  Noblest,  set  in  cluster 
Lines  where  no  word  cracks  wry,  no  rhyme  breaks  gauges. 

II 

No  culs  de  sacs 

nor  false  ways  me  diflected 
When  first  I  pierced  her   fort  within   its  dykes, 
Hers,  for  whom   my   hungry   insistency 
Passes  the  gnaw  whereby  was   Vivien  wracked; 
Day-long  I  stretch,  all  times,  like  a  bird  preening, 
And  yawn  for  her,  who  hath  o'er  others  thrust  her 
As  high  as  true  joy  is  o'er  ire  and  rages. 


The    Little    Review 


III 

Welcome  not  lax, 

and  my  words  were  protected, 
Not  blabbed  to  other.     When  I  set  my  likes 
On  her,  not  brass  but  gold  was  'neath  the  die, 
That  day  we  kissed,  and  after  it  she  flacked 
O'er  me  her  cloak  of  indigo,  for  screening 
Me  from  all  culvertz  eyes,  whose  blathered  bluster 
Can  set  such  spites  abroad;  win  jibes  for  wages. 

IV 

God,  who  did  tax 

not  Longus'  sin,  respected 
That  blind  centurion  beneath  the  spikes 
And  him  forgave,  grant  that  we  two  shall  lie 
Within  one  room,  and  seal,  therein,  our  pact, 
Yea,  that  she  kiss  me  in  the  half-light,  leaning 
To  me,  and  laugh  and  strip  and  stand  forth  in  the  lustre 
W%ere  lamp-light  with  light  limb  but  half  engages. 

V 

The  flowers  wax 

with  buds  but  half  perfected; 
Tremble  on  twig  and  shake  when  the  bir^  strikes  — 
But  not  more  fresh  than  she!      No   empery, 
Tho'  Rome  and  Palestine  were  on  compact. 
Would  lure  me  from  her;   and  with  hands  convening 
I  give  me  to  her.     But  if  kings  could  muster 
In  such   like  homage,  you  would  count   them  sages. 

VI 

Mouth,  now  what  knacks  !  ! 

What  folly  hath  infected 
Thee?     Gifts,  that  th'  Emperor  of  the  Salonikes 
Or  Lord  of  Rome  were  greatly  honoured  by, 
Or  Syria's  Lord,  thou  dost  from  me  distract; 
0  fool  I  am!    to  hope  for  intervening 
From  Love  that  shields  not  love!     Yea,  it  were  juster 
To  call  him  mad,  who  'gainst  his  joy  engages. 


The    Little    Review 


VII 

The  slimy  jacks 

with  adders'  tongues  bisected, 
I  fear  no  whit,  nor  have;  and  if  these  tykes 
Have  led  Gallicia's  king  to  villeiny  — 
His  cousin  in  pilgrimage  hath  he  attacked  — 
We  know  *—  Raymon  the  count's  son  —  my  meaning 
Stands  without  screen.     The  royal  filibuster 
Redeems  not  honour  till  he  unbar  the  cages. 

Coda 

I  should  have  seen  it,  but  I  was  on  such  affair. 
Seeing  the  true  king  crowned,  here  in  Estampa. 

*Foot-note:  I  had  not  intended  to  print  this  translation  or  any 
other  of  the  complete  set  of  Daniel's  canzos.  apart  from  tlieirr 
Provencal  originals,  in  a  separate  booklet.  But  as  the  full  Mss.,  an 
affair  scholastic  rather  than  artistic,  yet  of  interest  to  serious  stu- 
dents of  the  craft,  appears  to  he  spurlos  verschwindet,  along  with 
the  Clark's  Press,  of  Cleveland  Ohio  (fate  not  unique  with  Mss. 
^ent  to  America)  I  make  sure  of  this  much  of  the  work  before 
leaving  my  papers  for  an  indefinite  period.  I  find  my  spare  copies  of 
the  remaining  translations  rather  too  overscored  to  be  much  use 
to    anyone    but    myself,    but    could    probably    duplicate    the    printers 

copy  with  time. 

Vivien,  strophe  II.  "nebotz  Sain  GuiUem"  is  an  allusion  to  the 
romance  "Enfances  Vivien".  Longus  is  the  centurion  in  the  Cruci- 
fixion legend,  political  allusions  in  the  last  strophes  need  to  be  re- 
garded as  an  integral  part  of  the  canzo. 

The   passages    containing 

"E  quel  remir  contral  lums  de  la  lampa"  and 

"Ges   rams   floritz 

de  floretas  envoutas 

Cui  fan  tremblar  auzelhon  ab  lurs  bees 

Non  es  plus  frescs.  per  qu'ieu   no  vol  Roam   .  .  ." 
should  help  explain  Dante's  partiality  for  .\rnaut  Daniel  as  expressed 
in   the  treatise  "De   Vulgari   Eloquio". 

Lavaud  notes  the  historical  allusions  as  follows: 

Lord    of    the    Gallicians,    Ferdinand    second   king   of    Gallicia, 


The    Little    Review 


Upon  the  Harps  of  Judea 

The  noble  sentiments 

Which  fill  the  form  of  this  unbearable  Jew 

(four  ft.  9  in.  by  3  ft.) 
Overflow  into  his  countenance 
and  out  of  his  countenance 
and  into  his  gestures 
and  into  his  carriage 
to  the  devastation  of  everyone; 

The  Chinese  gentleman  and  his  heroicly  red-haired  mistress 
Shrink   as  he   claims   former   acquaintance. 
He  exudes  benevolence  upon  the  timidly  smirking  daughter, 
and  upon  the  occidental  and  wounded  Tommy  of  an  inferior  class, 
Whom   the  timidly  smirking  daughter  has   captivated; 

The  second  and  younger  Semite 
slides  to  a   second   table. 

The  round  and  elder  Semite 

relapses  into  sulks  and  rotundity. 

He  rises.     And  pokes  his  bald  head 

into  the  retired  younger  Semite's  steaming  dishes. 

Such  are  the  effects  of  benevolence. 

In  ripis  Babiloniis,  in  ripis  BabUoniis 
In  ripis  Babiloniis,  planga-a-a-a-a-azmms. 


1157-88,  son  of  Berangere,  sister  of  Raimon  Berengar  (vide 
Dante:  quattro  figlie  ebbe  R.  B.)  IVth  of  Aragon,  count  of  Brace- 
lona  whose  second  son  was  lieutenant  in  Provence  from  1168. 
King  at  Etamips,  Philippe  August,  crowned  May  29,  1180,  at  the 
age  of  16.     Might  well  set  date  of  Arnaut's  birth  as  early  as  1150. 


The    Little    Review 


MR.    VILLERANT'S    MORNING    OUTBURST 

(Four    Letters) 

My  dear  Imogene: 

You  ask  me  to  "save  him  from  the  mire  that  sickens  him". 
Really!!  I  am  tired  of  these  operatic  contortions.  Est-ce  qu'on 
exige  la  chastete  d'un  homme  vers  sa  quarantaine!  Why  mire? 
Why  "sickens  him"?  There  are  plenty  of  quite  nice  young  ladies;  a 
little  too  sentimental  perhaps;  too  religious;  too  bourgeois  and  do- 
mestic. They  read  you  letters  from  sister  Alice  in  the  convent  at 
AVicklow;  above  their  atrociously  belaced  beds  you  are  stared  at  by 
the  photo-enlargement  of  the  darling  child;  you  are  let  in  for  the 
emotions  of  maternity;  you  are  introduced  to  styles  of  furnishing 
which  you  hoped  you  had  escaped  once  and  for  all  when  you  es- 
caped from  the  life  of  cheap  lodgings;  or  you  land  a  grade  or  two 
higher  and  are  let  in  for  reminiscence  of  the  appalling  dullness 
of  some  blasted  suburban  w^atering  place  when  they  had  to  stay 
there  with  their  late  husband  (old  army).  Or  once  in  the  rarest 
of  whiles  you  find  affection  and  a  temperament. 

But  why  this  animal  should  scribble  to  you  about  mire,  and 
deck  himself  in  the  blatencies  of  repentance  ....  ajh! ! 

If  he  would  pick  his  company  and  then  inebriate,  instead  of  ine- 
briating and  then  picking  his  company!  In  short  if  he  weren't  a  dog- 
dasted  fool,  and  likely  to  be  a  bore  in  all  companies;  if  he  weren't 
too  full  of  sloth  mental  and  physical  to  aspire  to  amateurs;  if  he 
would  study  the  rudiments  of  physiognomy  and  make  some  sort  of 
selection,  SELECTION,  my  dear  Imogene.  which  is  even  easier, 
even  more  practicable  in  aquaintances  of  the  moment  than  in  re- 
lationships inherited  from  one's  family etc  ...  .  and  let  us 

have  done  with  him. 

In  matters  of  this  sort,  as  in  all  other  human  relations,  a  man 
takes  his  o\mi  mire  with  him,  or  his  own  disinfectants,  or  even  his 
own  free-air  and  sea-scape  if  he  have  a  fortunate  disposition. 

True  they  are  sometimes  fussy  when  they  think  they  are  being 
imperious ;  this  is  the  first  mark  of  vulgarity,  but  it  is  a  characteris- 
tic of  all  stupid  women,  and  often  triumphs  over  breeding.  It  is 
perhaps  as  common  amid  palatial  surroundings  as  it  is  among  the 
ambiguous. 

Sincerely  yours, 

W.  V. 


The    Little    Review 


n. 

No,  My  dear  Caroline: 

Russians! !  Am  I  never  to  hear  the  last  of  these  Russians!  I 
have  shut  up  the  esteemed  and  estimable  William,  and  now  you  take 
up  the  pillows. 

The  Russian  (large  R.,  definite  article,  Artzibasheff,  Bustikosseff, 
Slobingobski,  Spititoutski  and  Co.  Amalgated,  communatated,  etc.), 
''The  Russian"  my  dear  Caroline,  is  nothing  but  the  western  Euro-  ! 
pean  with  his  conning-tower,  or  his  top-layer,  or  his  upp)er-story,  or 
his  control-board  removed.  As  neither  the  governed  Frenchman, 
nor  Englishman  (undermined  by  sentimentality,  but  still  sailing  in 
ballast),  nor  the  automatic  American  barge  about  in  this  rudderless 
fashion,  one  makes  comparisons  with  the  Russian  "elan",  Russian 
"vigour"  etc.. 

Civilized  man,  any  civilized  man  who  has  a  normal  lining  to 
his  stomach,  may  become  Russian  for  the  price  of  a  little  mixed 
alcohol,  or  of,  perhaps,  a  good  deal  of  mixed  alcohol,  but  it  is  a 
matter  of  shillings,  not  a  matter  of  dynamic  attainment. 

Once,  and  perhaps  only  once,  have  I  been  drunk  enough  to  feel 
like  a  Russian.  Try  it,  my  dearest  young  lady,  try  it.  Try  it  and 
clear  the  mind,  free  your  life  from  this  obsession  of  Russians  (if  Len- 
nin  and  Co.,  have  not  freed  you). 

What-  are  we  told  about  Russians:  vast  humanity,  brotherly 
love,  above  all,  vast  tolerance.  All  for  a  job  lot  of  bottles.  Note 
the  attention  to  detail.  In  Russian  fiction,  in  Dbstoevsky,  and  in 
the  next  drunk  you  see  brushing  a  non-extant  crumb  from  the  imagin- 
ary crease  in  his  waist-coat.  Precisely!  Vast  attention  to  detail,  al- 
ways detail  uncorrected  with  anything  else.  The  drunk  sits  in  his 
little  clearing,  he  is  enclosed  by  a  vast  penumbra  of  shadows,  a 
penumbra  of  things  dimly  seen,  he  has  infinite  concern  with  someij 
object  still  within  optical  focus.     (Vide  Dostoevsky).  Ij 

He  has  moments  of  phenomenal  energy.  At  times  his  stride 
increases,  he  turns  a  corner  with  marvellous  exactness  of  angle,  and 
hits  the  wall  six  steps  later.  He  tries  to  lift  the  policeman.  He  is 
filled  with  the  blessings  and  beamings  of  tolerance.  | 

I,  my  dear  Caroline,  a  person  dour  enough  in  this  climate, 
have  observed  myself  mellow  and  human,  I  have  observed  myself 
practicing  fellowship,  mingling  with  the  products  of  democracy.    In 


The    Little    Review 


my  normal  West-European  condition  I  cannot  talk  to  the  English 
"lower-classes".  I  can  converse  with  French  peasants  and  work- 
men, I  can  play  bocchi  in  the  back-yard  of  a  Trattoria,  but  with  the 
English  of  "different  station"  I  am  at  loss  for  a  subject.  But  Rus- 
sian I  am  filled  with  invention.  I  will,  by  gad,  I  will  pass  myself 
off  for  a  Frenchman.  I  do  it  triumphantly,  liquor  perhaps  shielding 
my  accent,  I  translate  into  broken  English.  The  Tommy  next  to 
me  in  the  "Tube"  is  returning  to  Amiens  in  the  morning,  we  are 
full  of  mutual  recognitions,  I  am  his  noble,  his  affectionate  ally.  He 
kisses  me  on  both  cheecks  at  departing.  I  present  him  with  my 
last  shilling.  I  had  three-ha'pence  in  the  morning,  but  these  details 
are  but  pay  no  attention  to  that  in  our  conversations." 
I  have  fathomed  the  Russians. 
Yours  eternally, 

Walter  Villerant. 
Ill 
Hq>sibah! 

I  decline  to  write  of  religion.  Christianity  as  we  understand 
it",  i.  e.,  as  it  is  presented  to  our  gaze  in  the  "Occident",  has 
reduced  itself  to  one  principle: 

"Tlhou  shalt  attend  'to  thy  neighbour's  business  in  preference 
to  thy  own." 

It  is  upon  this  basis  that  the  churches  are  organized,  it  is 
up)on  this  basis  that  they  flourish,  (bar  one  old  established  conspira- 
tor's club  which  expoits  a  more  complicated  scenic  arrangement). 
They  equally  blame  themselves  on  the  victimized  Galilean.  Against 
all  of  which  I  have  no  .defence  save  the  eleventh  chapter  of  the 
iLun-Yu,  tJhe  25th  section: 

Tseu-lou,  Thseng-sie,  Van-yeou,  and  Kong-si-hoa  were 
seated  beside  the  Philosopher,  who  said  "I  am  older  than  you 
are  but  pay  no  attention  to  that  in  our  conversations." 

He  continued,  "we  sit  apart  and  in  solitude,  we  are  un- 
recognized, but  if  someone  should  recognize  you,  what  would 
you  do  about  it?" 

Tseu-lou  replied  lightly  but  respectfully,  "Let  us  imagine 
a  kingdom  of  ten  thousand  war-chariots,  stuffed  in  be- 
tween other  kingdoms,  let  them  be  full  of  levies,  let  the  first 
kingdom  suffer  death  and  famine  should  your  friend  (Little 
Tseu-lou)  be  set  in  power,  he  would  put  things  right  in  less 


10  The    Little    Review 


then  three  years,  the  people  would  put  on  their  coixrage." 

The  philosopher  smiled  at  these  words.    And  said, 
"And  you  Thseng-sie?" 

Thseng  replied  respectfully,  "Let  us  imagine  a  province 
of  sixty  or  seventy  li,  or  even  of  fifty  to  sixty  li,  put  me  in 
charge  of  it  and  in  less  than  three  years  the  people  will  have 
enough,  and  I  will  put  the  instruction  in  rites  and  in  music 
in  Charge  of  an  exceptional  man." 

"And  you  Yan?"  said  the  Master. 

"I  am  not  sure  I  could  do  these  things,  I  should  much 
rather  study.  I  should  be  happy  in  wearing  tiie  cobalt  robes 
of  an  acolyte  in  the  great  ceremonies  at  the  Temple  of  Ances- 
tors, or  in  the  public  processions." 

"And  you  Si-hoa?"  said  the  Philosopher. 

The  last  pupil  picked  a  few  odd  c'hords  on  his  viol,  but  the 
sounds  continued  echoing  in  the  ibowl  of  it.  He  put  it  aside 
and  rose,  and  then  resp>ectfully,  "My  opinion  is  entirely  dif- 
ferent from  any  among  my  companions."  The  Philosopher 
answered  "Who  forbids  you  to  express  it  ?  Here  each  one  may 
say  what  he  likes." 

Si-hoa  continued,  "The  spring  being  passed  over  and  my 
spring  clothes  put  in  the  chest,  and  wearing  the  bonnet  de 
virilite  *,  with  five  or  six  men  and  a  half  dozen  young  chaps, 
I  should  like  to  go  to  the  old  swimming  hole  on  the  Y  (near 
Kou  village),  and  feel  the  wind  in  that  country  where  they 
offer  rain-sacrifice  in  the  summer;  and  sing  a  little,  and  make 
a  few  tunes,  and  then  go  back  to  my  homestead." 

The  philosopher  sighed,  and  added,  "I  am  rather  of  Si- 
hoa's  opinion." 

Three  disciples  took  leave  but  Thseng-sie  (presumably 
the  Rodyheaver,  or  potential  Xtn  convert  of  the  company) 
remained  and  asked  after  an  interval"  What  should  one  think 
of  the  speeches  of  these  three  disciples?" 

Kung-fu-tseu   said   "Each   one  has  expressed  his  own   tem- 
perament.    That  is  the  end  of  the  matter." 

Yours,  Walter  Villerant. 

And  damn  the  Occident  anyhow! 


*Kuan,  cap  which  boy  receives  from  his  father  upon  his  coming 
or  age. 


The    Little    Review  ii 


My  dear  Imogene: 

You!  complain  to  me  about  Joyce's  language.  I  will  not  bother 
to  answer,  I  will  point  merely  to  a  recent  article  on  Joyce  in 
The  Future  (an  English  periodical,  not  to  be  confused  with  Die 
Zukunft).  The  author  says,  and  I  think  with  reason,  that  where- 
ever  Joyce  has  made  use  of  lice,  or  dung,  or  other  disgusting  un- 
pleasantness he  has  done  so  with  tlhe  intention,  and  with,  as  a 
considerable  artist,  the  result  of  heightening  some  effect  of  beauty, 
or  twisting  tighter  some  other  intensity. 

Tlie  metal  finish  alarms  people.  They  will  no  more  endure 
Joyce's  hardness  than  they  will  Pound's  sterilized  surgery.  The  de- 
cayed-lily verbiage  which  the  Wilde  school  scattered  over  the  de- 
cadence is  much  more  to  the  popular  taste.  Vomit,  carefully  labled 
"Beauty",  is  still  in  the  literary  market,  and  much  sought  after  in 
the  provinces.  I  am  not  throwing  that  into  contrast  with  Joyce's 
novels. 

I  have  a  much  finer  question,  and  one  which  I  probably  waste 
in  sending  you.  It  is  of  the  contrast  between  Gautier  and  Beaude- 
laire,  so  we  are  well  up  beyond  the  Wilde  level. 

I  take  it  that  art  rises  in  some  measure  in  proportion  to  its 
inimitability,  even  its  untranslability.  And  I  have  never  yet  found 
Gautier  in  English;   nor  do  I  see  any  ready  means  of  saying 

Le  squelette  etait  invisible 
Au  temps  heureux  de  Part  paien; 
L 'Homme,  sous  la  forme  sensible,  etc. 
in  English. 

"The  skeleton  was  invisible  in  the  happy  era  of  pagan  art",  is 
felicitious,  it  is  better  than  "happy  time"  or  "happy  days";  "era" 
has  come  to  as  I  write  this,  after  years  of  thought  on  the  matter. 
But  I  am  not  ready  to  translate  Gautier  into  English. 

Beaudelaire  had,  we  presume,  a  "message".  He  had  also  a 
function  in  the  French  verse  of  his  time.  The  poetic  language  had 
grown  stiff,  even  Gautier  is  less  miraculous  if  one  consider  the  tradi- 
tion of  French  eighteenth  century  writing,  the  neatness  of  Bernard, 
(whom  Voltaire  addresses  as  "Gentile  .  .  .  dont  la  muse  feconde,  doit 
faire  encore  delices"  .  .  .  )  ;  the  tone  of 

Si  tu  ne  peux  vivre 
Sains  un  Apollon, 


12  T  h  e    Lit  tl  e    Rev  iew 

C'est  Anacreon, 

Ami,  qu'il  faut  suivre. 

Apprends  a  monter 

Ta  galante  lyre: 

Si  tu  veux  chanter, 

Que  Bacchus  t'inspire 

Le  tendre  delire 

Qui,  cher  a  Themire, 

S'en  fait  ecouter. 
had  probably  constricted   French  poetry,  and  there  was  doubtless 
need  of  some  new  shaggy  influx. 

But  the  Beaudelairian  "vigour"  seems  to  me  now  too  facile  a 
mechanism.  Any  decayed  cabbage,  cast  upon  any  pale  satin  sofa  will 
give  one  a  sense  of  contrast.  I  am  not  saying  that  Beaudelaire  is 
nothing  but  cabbages  cast  upon  satin  sofas,  but  merely  that  in 
many  poems  one  "unpleasant"  element  is  no  more  inevitable  than 
another,  and  that  for  a  great  many  of  his  words  and  lines  other 
words  and  lines  might  be  substituted;  and  that  he  can  be  translated 
very  roughly  without  losing  any  of  his  quality. 

The  stuff  looks  more  vigorous  than  it  is As  indeed  bad 

graphic  art  often  looks  more  skillful  than  it  is  ...  . 
Passons  ... 

Villcrant. 
P.  S.    Bad  Beaudelaire  in  English  has  come  from  trying  * 
do  him  in  a  lilies  and  clematis  vocabulary,  fitter  for  Alfred  de  Musset. 


T  he    Lit  1 1  e    Rev  tew  13 

TWO    POEMS 

Andre      Spire 
Saint-Moritz 

Ouvrier,  ouvrier, 

J'etais,  je  pense,  un  naif  jeune  homme, 

Quand  je  trahis  ma  classe  pour  la  tienne. 

Mais  notre  amour  ne  dura  guere. 

Nous  nous  sentions  si  mal  a  I'aise  ensemble. 

Tu  nu  comprenais  pas  mon  besoin  de  loisirs. 

Ni  mon  besoin   de  livres; 

Moi,  je  trouvais  ta  vie  si  douloureuse 

Que  je  ne  comprenais  pas  comment  tu  pouvais  rire, 

Et  ma  pitie  t'agacait. 

Travail   fievreux,  plaisirs  rapides, 

Thes,  bavardages,  musees,  concerts, 

Metaphysique,  Bergsonisme,  et  conversation  de  mes  amis, 

Paris  a  de  quoi  occuper  son  homme. 

Mais  je  n 'arrivals  pas,  camarade, 

A  te  chasser  de  ma  pensee. 

Tu  etais  colle  a  mon  ame     . 

Je  me  suis  enfui  chez  tes  maitres 
Assembles  dans  ces  palais  monstrueux. 

lis  sont  ici,  venus  des  cjuatre  coins  du  monde, 
Bien  portants  ou  malades,  deprimes,  excites. 
Princes,  marchands,  juges,  soldats,  banquiers, 
Les  hommes  durs  nourris  par  le  travail  des  autres; 
Et  leurs  femmes,  sous  le  ciel  saphir, 
dissent,  dans  leurs  "sweaters"  eclattants, 
Comme  d'insolentes  fleurs  meridionales. ' 

Et  tovit  leur  appartient  ici. 

Tout  un  peuple,  gens  et  betes,  leur  est  asservi,  j 


14  The    Little    Review 


Et  la  neige,  et  ile  givre,  et  les  fluides  et  les  pentes, 
Et,  sur  k  lac  gele,  transforme  en  Longchamp, 
Les  traineaiix  qui  s'elancent, 
Et  les  bobsleighs  qui  volent  sur  la  glace  des  "runs". 

Qa  et  la,  un  petit  monument  indique,  a  vrai  dire, 

Qu'un  gentleman,  a  ces  jeux  la  perdit  sa  vie. 

Mais  y  peut  on  penser,  quand  on  sait  que,  demain, 

Toutes  les  boutiquieres  de  ce  nombril  du  monde 

Pendront  a  leur  vitrine  les  traits  de  votre  face, 

Ou  qu'on  rentre  des  courses 

Etendu,  accoude,  avec  des  jeunes  filles, 

Sur  les  longs  coussins  des  bobsleighs,  solennels 

Comme  le  chaste  lit  des  noces  Aldobrandines,  ' 

Le  bonnet,  la  poitrine  recouverte  d'insignes, 

Dans  la  douceur  d'un  soir  havane  et  grenadine. 

Maintenant,  ouvrier, 
Regardons  nous  en  face, 
Non  en  amis  genes,  .  .  . 
En  adversaires  loyaux. 

Tu  sais  bien  que  j'aurai  le  coeur  de  te  combattre. 
Si,  jamais,  tu  touchais  aux  choses  que  j'aime, 
Puisque  j  'ai  retrouve  chez  des  hommes  de  ma  classe 
Ce  que  j 'avals  ete  chercher  chez  toi,  dans  ma  jeunesse. 
Ton  mepris  de  la  mort,  ta  naivete. 

St.  Moritz  fevrier  1914. 

B  1  a  m  0  n  t 

Quand  j'allais  en  vacances 

A  Blamont-en-Lorraine 

Le  coq  me  reveillait, 

Le  coq  dans  le  soleil, 

Les  poules  dans  les  corbeilles 

Du  jardin  de  ma  grand'mere 

Ou  y  avait-t-un  lilas,  un  figuier  et  un  tuya. 


Thg    Little    Review  i$ 

Quand  le  troupeau  rentrait 

Agneaux  suivant  leurs  meres, 

Je  pensais  a  la  laine 

Ou  mes  deux  mains  plongeaient 

Aux  rues  qu'ils  animaient, 

Du  pays  de  ma  grand 'mere 

Ou  y  avait-t-un  lilas,  un  figuier  et  un  tuya. 

Quant  j'alkis  a  I'etable 

Ou  le  veau  roux  tetait, 

Je  pensais  aux  prairies 

Oil  bientot  il  brouterait, 

Aux  seaux  blancs  et  au  lait 

Du  pays  de  ma  grand'mere 

Ou  y  avait-t-un  lilas,  un  figuier  et  un  tuya. 

Lorsque  j'allais  en  plaine 
Voir  les  boeufs  labourer, 
Les  boeufs  rouges,  les  boeufs  beiges 
Qui  me  semblaient  eternels, 
Je  pensais  aux  epis 
Du  pays  de  ma  grand'mere 
Ou  y  avait-t-un  lilas,  un  figuier  et  un  tuya. 

La  maison  est  a  bas, 
Le  pays  est  par  terre, 
Les  laboureurs  tues; 
J 'essay  e  de  chanter 
Chanter  comme  naguere; 
Mais  je  ne  peux  penser 
Qu'au  couteau,  qu'au  boucher; 

Mais  je  ne  peux  penser 

Qu'aux  couteaux,  aux  bouchers 

Du  pays  de  ma  grand'mere. 

Aux  moutons  egorges 

Aux  mechants,  au  cimetiere 

Du  pays  de  ma  grand'mere 

Ou  y  avait-t-un  lilas,  un  figuier  et  un  tuya. 

20  Aout  1918. 


i6  The    Little    Review 


H.    D's    CHORUSES    FROM    EURIPIDES 

E.   P. 

Setting  out  in  a  purely  quixotic  attempt  to  learn  something 
about  English  literature,  and  in  the  present  instance  something 
about  English  versions  of  the  "classics"  —  an  attempt  which  can 
only  win  me  the  greater  detestation  from  the  elder  generation  of 
American  writers  and  publishing  houses  who  have  never  heard  of 
the  classics  and  who  are  therefore  annoyed  when  one  mentions  them ; 
and  from  the  younger  generation  who  have  heard  of  these  things  but 
do  not  wish  to  be  reminded  of  them;  and  in  particular  from  professors 
who  think  the  classics  are  their  private  ice-tbox,  and  who  resent 
the  intrusion  of  "mere  men  of  letters"  thereinto:  —  plunging  how- 
ever into  these  ancient  sources  of  deliverance  from  small  tyranny,  it 
is  born  in  upon  me  that  H.  D's  "Choruses  from  Iphegenia  in  Aulis" 
are  worth  more  praise  than  I  have  yet  got  round  to  giving  them; 
all  the  more  if  one  compare  them  with  the  signal  botch  which  the 
usually  very  intelligent  Robt.  Browning  made  when  he  attempted  the 
Agamemnon  of  Aeschylus;  not  that  I  am  convinced  one  can  ap- 
proadh  the  Greek  drama  via  Euripides,  or  that  the  isolated  choruses 
form  a  fair  avenue  of  approach  in  themselves,  or  are  likely  to  be  of 
proportionate  interest  taken  alone. 

But  if,  via  Homer  and  Aeschylus  one  have  contracted  an  inter- 
est in  the  Atreidae,  H.  D's  choruses  should  be  a  great  relief  from 
other  windy  and  verbose  translators. 

Also  she  has  spared  us  the  celebrated  cocoa  outburst 

MAKARES  01  METRIAS  THEOU 
META  TE  SOPHROSUNAS  METE 
SXON  LEKTRON  APHRODITAS, 

(reader  will  pardon  this  transalphabetisation,  but  bitter  exper- 
ience has  led  me  to  suspect  that  the  man  who  prints  this  magazine 
has  no  hellenic  font  at  his  elbow).  The  French  commentator 
gives  it: 

"Heureux  ceux  qui  dans  un  chaste  hjmien  usent  moderement 
des  plaisirs  de  Venus." 

One  cannot  help  sympathising  with  Aristophanes,  and  I  do 
not  offer  H.  D's  choruses  as  any  untempered  incense  to  Euripides,  or 


The    Littlg    Review  17 


as  ail  offset  for  Mrs.  Browning's  remarks.  I  can  not  tell  how  much 
Interest  they  will  stir,  or  have  stirred,  of  themselves  as  poems  isola- 
ted, but  certainly  the  first,  second,  third,  fourth  and  ninth  strophes 
of  the  first  chorus,  and  the  brief  second  chorus,  as  H.  D.  has  given 
them,  are  enough  to  make  anyone  with  an  interest  in  Greek  drama 
in  English  \vish  that  more  of  it  were  available  in  this  form. 


CHORUS  OF  THE  WOMEN  OF  CHALKIS  ' 

I 

I  CROSSED  sand-hills. 
I  stand  among  the  sea-drift  before  AuHs. 
I  crossed  Euripos'  strait — 
Foam  hissed  after  my  boat. 

I  left  Chalkis, 
My  city  and  the  rock-ledges. 
Arethusa  twists  among  the  boulders. 
Increases — cuts  into  the  surf. 

I  come  to  see  the  battle-line 
And  the  ships  rowed  here 
By  these  spirits — 
The  Greeks  are  but  half-man. 

Golden  Menelaos 

And  Agamemnon  of  proud  birth 

Direct  the  thousand  ships. 

They  have  cut  pine-trees 

For  their  oars. 

They  have  gathered  the  ships  for  one  purpyose: 

Helen  shall  return. 

There  are  clumps  of  marsh-reed 
And  spear-grass  aibout  the  strait. 
Paris  the  herdsman  passed  through  them 
When  he  took  Helen — Aphrodite's  gift. 
For  he  had  judged  the  goddess 


i8  The    Little    Review 

More  beautiful  than  Hera. 

Pallas  was  no  longer  radiant 

As  the  three  stood 

i\mong  the  fresh-shallows  'of  the  strait. 

2 

I  crept  through  the  woods 

Between  the  altars: 

Artemis  haunts  the  place. 

Shame,  scarlet,  fresh-opened — a  flower, 

Strikes  across  my  face. 

And  sudden — ^light  upon  shields. 

Low  huts — the  armed  Greeks, 

Circles  of  horses. 

I  have  longed  for  this. 
I  have  seen  Ajax. 
I  have  known  Protesilaos 
And  that  other  Ajax — Salamis'  light 
■  They  counted  ivory-discs. 
They  moved  them— they  laughed 
They  were  seated  together 
On  the  sand-ridges. 

I  have  seen  Palamed, 
Child  of  Poseidon's  child: 
Diomed,  radiant  discobolus: 
Divine  Merion,  a  war-god, 
Starling  to  men: 

Island  Odysseos  from  the  sea-rocks: 
And  Nireos,  most  beautiful 
Of  beautiful  Greeks. 

3 
A  flash- 
Achilles  passed  across  the  beach. 
(He  is  the  seawoman's  child 
Chiron  instructed.) 


The    Little    Review  19 

Achilles  had  strapped  the  wind 

About  his  ankles, 

He  brushed  rocks 

The  waves  had  flun<^. 

He  ran  in  armour. 

He  led  the  four-yoked  chariot 

He  had  challenged  to  the  foot-race. 

Emelos  steered 

And  touched  each  horse  with  pointed  goad 

I  saw  the  horses: 

Each  beautiful  head  was  clamped  with  gold. 

Silver  streaked  the  centre  horses. 

They  were  fastened  to  the  pole. 

The  outriders  swayed  to  the  road-stead. 

Colour  spread  up  from  ankle  and  steel-hoof. 

Bronze  flashed. 

And  Achilles,  set  with  brass. 

Bent  forward, 

Level  with  the  chariot-rail. 

4 
If  a  god  should  stand  here 
He  could  not  speak 
At  the  sight  of  ships 
Circled  with  ships. 

This  beauty  is  too  much 

For  any  woman. 

It  is  burnt  across  my  eyes'. 

The  line  is  an  ivory-horn. 

The  Myrmidons  in  fifty  quivering  ships 

Are  stationed  on  the  right. 

These  are  AHjhilles'  ships. 
On  the  prow  of  each 


20  The     Little    Review 


A  goddess  sheds  gold: 
Sea-spirits  are  cut  in  tires  of  gold. 

I  have  heard  all  this. 

I  have  looked  too 

Upon  this  people  of  ships. 

You  could  never  count  the  Greek  sails 

Nor  the  flat  keels  of  the  foreign  boats. 

I  have  heard — 

I  myself  have  seen  the  floating  ships 

And  nothing  will  ever  be  the  same  — 

The  shouts. 

The  harrowing  voices  within  the  house. 

I  stand  apart  with  an  army: 

My  mind  is  graven  with  ships. 

•      Second  Chorus 

Paris  came  to  Ida. 

He  grew  to  slim  height 

Among  the  silver-hoofed  beasts. 

Strange  notes  made  his  flute 

A  Phrygian  pipe 

He  caught  all  Olympos 

In  his  bent  reeds. 

While  his  great  beasts 

Cropped  the  grass, 

The  goddesses  held  the  contest 

Which  sent  him  among  the  Greeks. 

He  came  before  Helen's  house. 

He  stood  on  the  ivory  steps. 

He  looked  upon  Helen  and  brought 

Desire  to  the  eyes 

That  looked  back — 

The  Greeks  have  snatched  up  their  spears. 
They  have  pointed  the  helms  of  their  ships 
Toward  the  bulwarks  of  Troy 


The    Lit  tie    Review  21 

TARIFF    AND    COPYRIGHT 
Ezra  Pound 

"TF  WE  don't  get  to  know  these  people"  (i.e.  English,  French, 
JL    Italian,  our  allies)  "better,  this  war  is  a  failure." 

These  words  were  addressed  to  me  by  George  Russel  in  the 
office  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Public  Information, 
London,  and  they  are  the  finest  words  spoken  by  any  American 
official  since  the  death  of  Abraham  Lincoln. 

Among  the  present  hinderances  to  communication  two  at  least 
are  utterly  needless;  the  first,  America's  demoded  and  mediaeval 
import  dut}^  on  boolcs,  an  atavism  which  the  city  of  Paris  had  dis- 
pensed with  in  the  sixteenth  century,  and  the  elimination  of  which 
aided  in  no  small  degree  to  keep  Paris  a  centre  of  civilization  ; 

The  second  hindrance  as  the  red  tape  and  insecurity  of  the 
cop5a-ight  regulations. 

Of  these  two,  the  first  is  America's  sole  affair,  at  least  she  alone 
can  rectify  the  present  stupidity. 

The  second  calls  for  reciprocal  intelligence  and  reciprocal  action 
between  England  and  America. 

The  tariff  on  books  should  be  removed  l^ecause  it  is  an  hind- 
rance to  international  communciation,  serious  at  any  time,  and 
doubly  serious  now  when  we  are  trying  to  understand  France  and 
England  more  intimately. 

This  question  of  tariff  on  books  should  be  wholly  dissociated 
from  the  question  of  tariffs  on  anything  else.  Books  have  an  im- 
material as  well  as  a  material  component,  and  because  of  this  im- 
material component  they  should  circulate  free  from  needless  impe- 
diment. They  should  not  be  hindered  in  migration  even  for  the 
sake  of  slight  material  gain. 

George  Haven  Putnam  has  buried  his  argument  of  the  case 
In  his  excellent  volumes  on  "Books  and  their  Makers  during  the 
Middle  Ages".  The  question  has  been  confused  by  the  Free  Trade 
Association,  or  a  body  of  some  such  title,  who  have  entangled  it  in 
their  anti-protection  campaign. 

The  tariff  on  books  is  specially  noxious  in  the  case  of  technical 
works  and  of  important  serious  work  of  small  circulation  which  can 
not  be  classed  as  "technical",  such  works  for  example  as  H.  A.  Ren- 


22  The    Little     Review 

nert's  "Life  of  Lop>e  de  Vega"  or  James  Joyce's  "Portrait  of  the 
Artist". 

The  government's  income  from  import  duty  on  serious  literature 
is  negligible.  The  sole  result  is  to  handicap  American  authors  anc 
to  preserve  a  provincial  tone  in  American  literature  to  its  invalida- 
tion. 

The  expression  of  thought  is  a  process  capable  of  improvements 
as  complex  and  as  important  as  the  improvements  of  material  me- 
chanical processes. 

The  American  writer  hears  of  such  improvements  ten  yean 
late,  and  begins  with  that  handicap. 

For  example  the  American  novice'  begins  to  imitate  a  mode 
ten  years  late,  about  the  time  when  Europe  has  got  tired  of  th< 
fashion. 

Also  they  get  these  crazes  untempered,  they  get  the  outstand 
ing  quality  unbalanced  by  surrounding  factors. 

Even  in  a  period  when  English  literature  is  weak,  they  do  no 
know  of  this  weakness  in  time  and  are  not  driven  to  investigatinj 
French  work,  as  for  example  from  1870  to  1900  when  France  was  ii 
a  period  of  unusual  vigour. 

The  case  does  not  rest  on  a  personal  opinion  about  particula 
dates,  authors,  influences. 

In  any  science  you  would  recognize  that  a  man  not  aware  o 
the  last  technical  discoveries  was  at  a  disadvantage.  So  is  th< 
American  author.  The  disadvantage  is  NOT  compensated  by  hi 
being  "protected  by  a  tariff." 

In  the  arts  the  only  thing  worth  a  damn  is  the  thing  whid 
does  not  need  protection. 

Until  America  can  produce  such  work,  her  artists  are  merel; 
injuring  the  public  intelligence  by  circulating  the  second  rate. 

The  serious  worker  is  penalized.  Some  of  the  best  Americai 
work  has  been  published  abroad  and  the  American  author  penalizec 
for  trying  to  send  it  home. 

(The  present  writer  is  no  longer  in  a  position  personally  to  ben 
cfit  by  removal  of  the  tariff  as  his  work  is  now  published  in  botl 
countries,  and  his  American  publication  for  the  present  rather  ahea( 
of  his  English  publication). 

Serious  literary  work  can  not  be  regarded  as  a  commerce  0 
as  manufacturing.     For  example  my  redaction  of  F'enollosa's  worl 


The    Little    Review  23 

on  the  Japanese  Classical  Drama  costs  twenty  years  work  to  Fenol- 
losa  and  includes  my  skill  acquired  by  ten  years  constant  practice. 
No  possible  or  at  any  rate  no  probable  sales  can  compensate  this 
at  the  rate  of  unskilfed  day  labour  or  pay  it  a  "living  wage". 

Should  one  be  taxed  on  top  of  this?  Taxed  for  wis'hing  to 
share  the  result  with  a  limited  American  public? 

Dr.  Rennert's  work  on  Lope  de  Vega  falls  under  the  same 
category. 

Serious  works  of  realism,  works  which  should  serve  as  stimulae 
and  as  models  to  young  writers  have  their  entry  into  America 
retarded,  the  young  men  in  Bloomsbury  gets  ten  years  start  of  the 
young  man  in  New  York  or  Indianapolis.  With  the  cost  of  living 
higher,  with  tlie  chances  of  leisure  less,  with  life  brief  as  it  is,  ten 
years  handicap  is  almost  insurmountable. 

I  am  ,in  touch  with  promising  young  American  writers,  I  have 
seen  men  with  good  natural  equipment  who  never  get  their  percep- 
tions recorded  in  prose  fiiTn  enough  to  last  or  to  compete  with 
European  prose. 

AT  LEAST  the  first  3000  copies  of  ANY  book  of  which  there 
is  no  American  edition  should  go  in  free. 

After  that  there  may  be  some  question  of  favoriTig  the  printer 
at  the  expense  of  the  public. 

The  country,  any  country,  wants  all  the  books  it  can  get. 
ONLY  cheap  GOOD  books  can  compete  with  cheap  bad  books. 

It  would  even  be  a  blessing  if  all  the  second-hand  book  shops 
in  Charing  Cross  Road  could  be  dumped  in  any  American  city. 

You  have  now  a  sane  law  about  the  importation  of  works  of 
art.  painting  and  sculpture. 

I  think  even  in  the  case  of  cheap  reprints  like  Dent's  "Every- 
man" series  there  is  much  to  be  said  for  getting  rid  of  the  tariff. 
There  are  plenty  of  good  classics  which  Dent  does  not  reprint. 

The  general  level  of  intelligence  would  be  improved  much 
more  by  an  American  firm's  reprinting  OTHER  classics  even  if  the 
volume  cost  ten  cents  more,  than  by  advancing  the  cost  of  Dent 
classics  ten  cents  to  the  poor  man,  and  having  American  firms  try 
to  compete  by  a  series  of  reprints  of  the  SAME  books. 

If  for  example  an  American  firm  were  running  a  DIFFERENT 
set  of  books  in  competition  I  should  have  two  chances  of  getting  a 
cheap  issue  of  Golding's  Ovid,  or  Gavin  Douglas'  Virgil,  which  now 


24  The    Little    Review 

I  can  not  get  save  by  sheer  luck  in  finding  a  1719  issue  of  one  and 
a  three  dollar  reprint  of  the  other. 

Only  those  who  are  FED  UP  with  poor  books  hunt  out  the 
good  ones. 

Literature  should  compete  by  QUALITY  not  by  cheapness . 

Literature  is  more  important  than  the  printing  trade.  And  the 
dual  nature,  intellectual  and  material,  or  books  should  wrench  them 
out  of  the  doctrinaire  inclusion  in  a  general  discussion  of  economics. 

The  law  of  supply  and  demand  does  not  COVER  the  matter. 

In  ANY  CASE  the  NON-COMPETITIVE  books  should  go  in 
free,  the  first  3000  should  go  in  free. 

Copyright 

It  should  be  easier  for  a  book  to  be  copyright  than  for  it 
to  be  not  copyright. 

It  should  be  easier  for  a  man  to  keep  or  keep  the  right  to  the 
work  of  his  hands,  or  of  his  brain,  than  for  another  to  steal  it. 

The  present  American  copyright  law  is  understood  by  few 
people  and  is  of  advantage  neither  to  the  public  nor  to  the  authors. 

The  copyright  of  any  book  printed  anywhere  ^ould  be  and 
remain  automatically  the  author's.  The  author  should  in  return 
for  thos  protection  place  on  file  copies  of  his  book  at  the  national 
library,  Washington,  and  in  the  municipal  libraries  of  the  four 
largest  American  cities. 

Such  placing  on  file  of  the  work  should  dispose  of  any  further 
dispute  over  the  matter. 

(I  need  hardly  point  out  that  said  libraries  would  under  this 
system  acquire  invaluable  collections  free  of  cost  to  the  public) . 

Copyright  from  present  date  should  be  perpetual. 

In  my  own  case  I  wish  to  leave  my  royalties  as  a  literary  en- 
downment;  I  should  be  able  to  do  this  with  as  much  security  as  if 
I  had  acquired  oil  stock,  or  government  bonds,  instead  of  .producing 
literature. 

Secondly:  the  present  .law  by  which  copyright  expires  permits 
dead  authors  to  compete  on  unjust  terms  with  living  authors.  Un- 
scurpulous  but  well-meaning  publishers,  well  serving  the  public, 
print  dead  authors  more  cheaply  than  living  ones  BECAUSE  they 
do  not  have  to  pay  royalties. 

This  is  to   tiie  disadvantage  of  contemporary   literature,   to 


Tht    Littli    Review  »$ 


the  disadvantage  of  literary  production.  As  America  has  less  past 
literature  than  other  countries  it  is  particuarly  to  American  advan- 
tage that  the  living  author  should  not  fare  at  least  as  well  as  .the 
dead  one. 

BUT  the  heirs  of  an  author  should  be  powerless  to  prevent  the 
publication  of  his  works  or  to  extort  excessive  royalties. 

If  the  heirs  neglect  to  keep  a  man's  work  in  print  and  at  a 
price  not  greater  than  the  price  of  his  books  during  his  life  time, 
then  unauthorized  publishers  should  be  at  liberty  to  reprint  said 
works,  paying  to  heirs  a  royalty  not  more  than  20%  and  not  less 
than  10%. 

BUT  the  protection  of  the  author  should  not  enable  him  to 
play  dog  in  the  manger. 

IF  having  failed  to  have  his  works  printed  in  America,  or  im- 
ported into  America,  or  translated  into  American,  an  American  pub- 
li^er  or  .translator  apply  to  said  author  for  premission  to  publish 
or  translate  a  given  work  or  works,  and  receive  no  answer  within 
reasonable  time,  say  six  montlis,  and  if  author  do  not  give  notice 
of  intending  other  American  publication  (quite  definitely  stating 
where  and  when)  within  reasonable  time,  or  designate  some  other 
translator  as  the  authorized  translator,  then  the  first  publisher  or 
translator  shall  have  the  right  to  publish  or  translate  any  work, 
paying  to  the  original  author  a  royalty  of  not  more  than  20% 
and  not  less  than  10%  in  the  case  of  an  English  book  published, 
and  a  royalty  of  not  more  than  10%  and  not  less  than  5%  in  the 
case  of  a  foreign  work  translated.  The  original  author  shall  have 
right  at  law  to  the  minimum  of  these  royalties. 

But  no  imaiithorized  translation  should  inhibit  the  later  publi- 
cation of  an  authorized  translation.  Nevertheless  an  authorized 
translation  appearing  later  should  not  in  any  way  interfere  with 
preceding  translations  save  by  fair  and  open  competition  in  the 
market. 

No  perpetual  copyright  should  come  into  effect  without  these 
safeguards.    They  are  very  important. 

In  addition:  After  a  man's  works  have  sold  a  certain  nimiber 
of  copies,  let  us  say  100,000,  there  should  be  no  means  of  indefinite- 
ly preventing  a  very  cheap  reissue  of  his  work,  at  let  us  say  25  cents 
a  volume.  Royalty  on  same  payable  at  rate  of  20%  to  author 
or  heirs. 


26  The    Little    Review 


MEMORABILIA 
Ezra  Pound 

"Patriotism  in  the  arts  consists' in 
getting  the  best.    It  does  not  consist  in 
a  demand  for  the  local  product." 
— William    Athcling    {music    critic) 
the  "New  Age",  London. 

THERE  is  still  an  American  import  duty  on  books.  It  is  less 
than  it  was  once.  It  is  less  than  it  was  when  the  present  author 
first  began  objecting  to  it,  but  it  exists.  It  is  not  a  war  measure  de- 
signed to  increase  revenue.  It  is  part  of  an  old  obstructionism;  part 
of  an  old  hatred  of  intercommunication. 

The  world's  immediate  need  is  to  annihilate  the  Prussian  mili- 
tary tyranny.  Other  tyrannies  and  oppressions  should  follow  said 
tyranny  to  the  dung-heap.  There  are  however  plenty  of  people  who 
are  not  working  at  the  first  job,  nor  in  any  way  preparing  for  the 
second. 

Kipling,  at  times  a  most  execrable  writer,  has  written 

"Transportation  is  civilization." 

This  fact  can  not  be  too  widely  recognized.  It  is  not  yet  half 
recognized. 

People  still  having  unused  leisure  can  occupy  some  of  it  devel- 
oping an  objection  to  impeding  the  inflow  of  enlightenment. 

There  should  be  no  import  tax  on  books  (not  even  on  bad  ones, 
not  even  on  Marie  Corelli  and  Hall  Caine).  But  above  all  there 
is  no  sense,  in  and  not  even  a  printers  profit  derivable  from,  an 
import  tax  on  books  which  have  a  sale  of  only  a  few  thousand  copies. 

It  is  merely  a  pettifogging  obstruction. 

Someone  has  just  given  $15,000,000  to  Yale;  professors  in  a 
nickle-plated  "civilization"  being  more  higly  valued  than  men  of 
letters;  the  parroting  of  accepted  opinions  being  more  valued  than 
invention. 

French  resistance  to  the  Prussian  demonstrates  the  value  of  a 
national  consciousness,  of  an  intelligent  national  consciousness;  this 


The     Little     Review  27 


comes  onlv  from  clear  thought,  freeely  and  clearly  expresed.      I  he 
French  de'fence  proves  that  literature  pays  a  nation. 

The  stamina  of  France  is  due  in  part  to  Theophile  Gautier,  to 
the  Acadamie  de  Goncourt;  to  the  French  care  for  art  and  letter? 

France  spends  more  on  literature  and  art  than  either  England 
or  \merica  both  the  latter  being  much  larger  and  richer  countries. 

The  rates  for  unpopular  work  are  higher  in  France.  France 
spends  in  prizes,  rewards,  endowments,  direct  on  the  creators. 

France  recognizes  the  economy  of  permitting  the  special  talent 
to  apply  itself  to  the  special  labour. 

When  will  the  American  endower  learn  to  knock  off  2  /o  ot 
his  endowings  and  settle  that  fraction  on  literature  ?  ?  ?  ?        ^ 

When,  indeed  ?  ?  ?  ?  ' 

Ulterior  motives  in  literature  are  the  curse.  The  patron,  the  de- 
sire to  please  the  patron,  had  become  a  plaguing  ulterior  motive. 
Sam.  Johnson  bashed  it  in  the  head,  he  led  a  dog's  life  and  freed 
English  authors  from  the  domination  of  patrons. 

^  The  demand  that  the  public  shall  agree  with  the  author's  utter- 
ance has  become  the  curse  of  contemporary  letters.    It  has  got  to  be 

bashed  on  the  head.  .     .  ,  1     r 

The  authentic  presentat'on  of  his  subject  is  job  enough  tor 
any  author;  very  few  have  attained  it. 

'  The  intelligent  man  must  fight  the  dominant  imbecilities  of  his 
time,  whether  they  are  "aristocratic"  or  "democratic",  mono-tyran- 
nic or  demo-tyrannic.  .  ,,     ,      ^ 

The  man  who  states  the  fact  as  he  sees  it  is  of  more  value  to 
the  state"  than  the  man  who  receives  a  salary  for  uttering  a  set 
programme  (religious,  economic,  political  or  literary,  or  "educa- 
tionla").  His  value  is  proportionate  to  the  clarity  and  precision  of  his 
statement;  to  "the  closeness  of  correspondence  between  his  statement 

P  T1  fl  Triclr 

There  is  a  "body"  called  "The  American  Academy  of  Art 
and  Letters". 

What  aibout  it  ?  m,      a        • 

There  is  also  another  "body"  or  periphery  called  "The  Ameri- 
can Institute  of  x\rt  and  Letters". 

What  aibout  it  ? 

It  can  not  be  called  a  periosteum. 


aS  The    Little    Review 

NOTES  ON  MUSIC,  BOOKS,  AND 
THE  THEATRE 

Margaret  Anderson 

Aljred  Cortot 

Cortot  is  one  of  the  people  who  matters.  He  plays  the  piano 
better  than  almost  any  one.  He  plays  like  a  poet,  like  a  religieuse. 
He  is  a  master  of  all  the  nuances  of  the  piano,  and  he  uses  his 
mastery  as  an  act  of  worship.  His  first  recital  in  New  York  was 
the  kind  of  thing  you  are  willing  to  wait  years  to  hear.  I  could 
easily  fall  into  superlatives,  so  I  will  merely  say:  do  not  miss  this 
man.     He  has  the   schlhie  tiejc  seek. 

Harold  Baiter 

I  have  written  so  much  of  my  predeliction  for  Harold  Bauer's 
playing  that  I  need  not  go  into  detail  of  his  first  recital  of  the 
season.  It  seems  to  me  that  he  is  playing  "dryer"  this  year, — I 
mean,  like  wine  .  His  Cesar  Franck  has  never  been  so  mellow. 
He  and  Cortot  are  so  different  that  it  might  be  interesting  to  dis- 
cover their  starting-points.  It  is  as  though  Bauer  said:  "Life  has 
taught  me  much,  .and  I  play  of  forgotten  beauty";  and  Cortot: 
"Life  has  taught  me  nothing  and  I  play  of  that  beauty  which  I 
cannot  forget".  It  is  to  this  particular  type  of  what  may  be  called 
"arrested  deveilopment"  that  Cortot  owes  the  complete  lovelines  of 
his  music.  His  Chopin  is  heartbreaking.  Bauer's  Chopin  is  always 
without  this  induced  and  essential  melancholy. 

Serge  Prokojeiff 

This  pianist  has  been  widely  heralded  as  "the  greatest  com- 
poser of  Russia",  —  I  believe  they  have  even  reported  that  he 
makes  Scriabine  and  Stravinsky  sound  pale  and  melodious.  Mr. 
Prokofeiff.  played  an  all-Russian  program  of  his  own  music,  to 
which  he  added  some  etudes  of  Scriabine  and  Rachmaninoff.  '  He 
is  not  a  pianist  in  any  sense  of  the  word.  He  plays  as  nearly  all 
composers  play,  —  with  a  large  carelessness  of  sound  and  a 
complete  disregard  —  no,  a  complete  ignorance  —  of  the  registers 
of  the  piano  keyboard.     But  what  interested  me  was  to  discover 


The    Little    Review  29 


that  he  is  not  a  composer  either. 

He  has  simply  strung  together  a  series  of  modern  tendencies 
and  moods,  but  underneath  them  there  runs  no  indication  of  an 
essential  feeling  When  he  began  playing  Scriabine  the  differ- 
ence between  great  composition  and  that  effort  wbic/t  assembles  but 
cannot  compose  became  too  apparent:  the  k'nd  of  thing  that  em- 
barrasses you  and  fills  you  with  strange  feelings  of  shame.  The 
audience  did  not  share  my  reactions,  but  gave  him  an  ovation;  and 
I  have  been  afraid  to  look  at  the  criticisms.  I  know  what  will 
be  said  of  him:  "he  played  with  great  fire  and  his  own  compositions 
were  remarkable",  etc.  It  will  all  be  terribly  untrue.  If  there 
is  any  interest  in  getting  at  the  truth,  this  could  be  said:  he  plays 
the  piano  with  the  quality  of  a  skilled  rag-time  performer  and  his 
own  music  is  a  sort  of  Francis  Grierson  hodge-podge  a  la  mode. 

Yvette  Guilbert 

Yvette  Guilbert  is  having  a  series  of  Thursday  afternoons  and 
Sunday  nights  at  Maxime  Elliott's  Theatre.  In  some  of  her  new 
songs  she  seems  more  inimitable  than  ever.  She  is  of  course  in- 
comparable and  I  have  no  new  words  with  which  to  glorify  her.  I 
have  just  been  reading  her  book,  "How  to  Sing  a  Song"  (Mac- 
millian).  It  is  nearly  always  a  sad  experience  to  hear  what  an 
artist  has  to  say  about  his  work.  I  am  coming  to  think  that  there 
is  just  one  unfailing  test  oi  an  artist's  greatness:  that  he  shall  be 
completely  uninteresting  about  general  ideas.  For  instance,  the 
kind  of  thing  that  fills  up  Mme.  Guilbert 's  book:  "Observation  is 
the  faculty  of  seeing  men  and  things  quickly  and  justly",  or  "the 
inventive  power  of  an  artist  is  Imagination",  or  "the  soul  is  a 
compound  of  all  our  intellectual  faculties",  etc.,  etc.  None  of  th^e 
remarks  means  anything,  necessarily;  if  it  does  it  means  something  to 
be  dismissed  before  any  interesting  talk  can  be  produced  on  the 
subject.  But  the  book  is  so  charming  in  its  naivete  and  so  inter- 
esting in  its  specific  expression  that  you  will  not  want  to  miss  it. 
Of  course  you  will  find  Clayton  Hamilton  airing  his  usual  in- 
eptitudes in  the  preface,  such  as  that  "except  in  rare  instances, 
like  that  of  Keats,  it  may  be  assumed  that  nobody  has  anything 
to  say  till  after  he  is  thirty",  etc.  But  yoir  already  know  Mr. 
Hamilton's  capacity  for  imbecilities:  the  thing  that  will  puzzle 
you  is  how  Mme.  Guilbert  can  tolerate  such  boredoms. 


30  The    Little    Review 


"Can  Grande's  Castle" 

Amy  Lowell'^  new  book  (Macmillan)  shares  this  typical  lack 
of  cerebration,  in  its  preface,  but  the  poetry  she  has  made  is 
characteristically  incisive  and  sensuous.  I  have  never  known  a 
poet,  it  happens,  who  likes  Amy  Lowell's  poetry.  I'liis  is  a  subject 
worth  speculation,  but  I  can't  go  into  it  just  now.  I  like  nearly 
all  the  poetry  Miss  Lowell  writes,  —  with  the  exception  of  her 
long  New  England  narratives;  but  those  I  don't  call  poetry. 

Bertha  Kalich 

Bertha  Kal'sh  is  doing  a  Danish  play  called  "TJie  Riddle:  Woman" 
with  intelligence  and  beauty.  The  play  is  a  drama  with  only,  two 
or  three  psychological  flaws  (a  soothing  minimum),  and  I  use 
the  word  "beauty"  with  discrimination.  Bertha  Kalich  must  have 
brains:  she  is  so  good  to  look  at.  It  is  the  kind  of  look  that 
argues  an  idea  of  beauty,  and  it  is  the  rarest  kind  of  thing  to 
find  on  the  American  stage.  It  is  the  only  hint  of  the  exotic  that 
I  know  of  on  the  stage  in  this  country.  Nazimova  has  nothing  of 
it:  nothing  of  this  contained  and  rhythmic  distinction.  Kalich  is 
tempered,  suave,  still,  dark  and  strange.  It  is  a  pity  that  such  an 
actress  has  to  depend  upon  the  commercial  theatre. 

"The  Living  Corpse" 

Tolstoy's  story  has  been  made  into  a  play  called  "Redemp- 
tion" and  John  Barrymore  is  starring  in  it.  I  think  Mr.  Barry- 
more  has  some  idea  of  himself  as  an  interesting  decadent,  and  he 
will  probably  treat  the  publ'c  to  a  series  of  plays  in  which  he  can  fig- 
ure as  the  conventional  aesthete  and  incidentally  preach  t*he  con- 
ventional ideal  of  the  mob's  relation  to  the  individual.  Since 
Mr.  Barrymore  knows  none  of  the  closer  aspects  of  these  questions 
his  appearance  in  such  plays  will  continue  to  thrill  the  infantile 
and  bore  the  sophisticated.  As  it  stands  "Redemption"  is  a  kind 
of  disintegrated  Broadw^ay  "show",  serving  Mr.  Barrymore  as  a 
vehicle  for  breaking  into  Art;  with  its  gypsies  and  its  music  and 
its  home-made  costumes  it  is  as  suggestive  of  Russian  drama  as 
college  theatricals  or  a  Streets  of  Cairo.  Of  course  the  fault  is 
Tolstoy's  too.  Tolstoy  has  no  compelling  drama  for  us.  We 
are  interested  in  the  human  being  who  finds  himself  an  exile  in 
the  world,  but  not  if  his  exile  depends  upon  a  general  imper- 
ception  of  himself  and  the  rest  of  mankind;  just  as  we  are  inter- 


The    Little    Review  3^ 


ened  in  a  man  and  woman  who  find  some  psychological  barrier 
in  the  way  of  their  marriage,  but  not  if  that  barrier  depends  upon 
the  prospective  mother-in-law's  idea  o-f  the  conventions.  Etc., 
etc.,  etc. 

Misclia  Levitiski  ,  .        . 

The  interesting  thing  about  Levitiski's  playing  is  that  he 
demonstrates  so  clearly  what  it  is  to  have  everything  except  the 
thing  that  differentiates,  and  therefore  the  thing  that  counts. 

Eusene  Berton  ,  ,         .       .     ,. 

A  seventeen-vear  old  baritone  made  his  debut  in  Aeolian 
Hall  last  month  and  the  critics  were  very  enthusiastic  but  said 
the  usual  unspecific  things.  Eugene  Berton  is  a  real  singer,  by 
some  token  of  racial  inheritance.  He  is  a  Russian  Jew  and  ;looks 
charminglv  like  a  Japanese  doll.  To  hear  this  little  Onenta 
sin^in^  Debussy  and  Rimskey-Korsakov  land  Barthelemy  with  all 
the*  authority  of  a  grand  opera  star  is  an  amazing  and  amusing 
and  delightful  phenomenon. 

LIST    OF    BOOKS 
John     Rodker 

MinlLoy's  Doems  in  the  new  "Others''  Anthology,  (Knopf.  $1.50) 
are  iiHi^ffiaent' quantity  to  enable  one  to  estimate  her  actual  signifi- 
cance. Certainly  she  is  a  poet,  but  her  work  remains  only-very 
interesting.  Between  that  and  poetry  that  matters  remains  still 
a  wide  gulf.  Her  visualisation  is  original,  often  brilliant,  but  head- 
work  is  cold  comfort  and  her  capacity  for  feeling  is  rather  a  cold 
indignation  of  the  sort  that  finds  expression  in  tags  like  'Honesty  is 
the  best  policy'. 

\Vhen  lines  like  this  occur  however: 

He  for  the  blue  and  red  of  her 
The  silent  eyelids  of  her 
The  shiny  smile  of  her. 

one  feels  that  some  day  emotion  of  good  quality  may  be  welded  to 
her  present  method.    I  think  that  neither  she  nor  Marianne  Moore 


32  Tht    Littl*    Review 

realize  that  as  words  grow  away  from  monosyllaibles  they  lose 
WEIGHT  and  significance  and  what  vague  richness  of  sound  is 
gained  leads  only  to  diffusion  of  theme  and  of  directness.  This  leads, 
after  elucidation  of  one  of  Miss  Moore's  poems,  merely  to  the  con- 
viction that  her  brain  must  be  very  large  and  particularly  spongy. 
Her  pyramids  contain  no  Pharaohs:  eviscerated  kittens  rather. 

Mina  Lqy's  "Human  Cylinders"  is  a  good  poem.  Simplified 
it  mig'lit  be  great.  She  has  the  "cosmic  touch":  that  hitching-on 
which  pulls  a  theme  or  a  treatment  together  —  this  being  incidently 
where  Miss  Moore  fails. 

I  quote  from  "Human  Cylinders": 

Where  each  extrudes,  beyond  the  tangible 

One  thin  pale  trail  of  speculation 

From  among  us  we  have  sent  out 

Into  the  enervating  dusk 

One  little  whining  beast 

Whose  longing 

Is  to  shrink  back  into  antediluvian  burrows 

And  one  elastic  tentacle  of  intuition. 

Certainly  it  is  all  over  the  place,  but  the  stuff  is  there.  It  ap- 
pears that  any  deep  quantity  of  emotion  in  this  anthology  is  left  to 
the  men.  Cannell,  whom  I  think  extremely  good  ("The  Coming  of 
Night") ;  Eliot  who  is  represented  by  the  "Preludes"  and  "Rhapsody 
of  a  Windy  Night"  and  Wallace  Stevens  whose  "Night  piecei'  print- 
ed long  ago  in  Others  remains  in  my  memory. 

The  women  other  than  those  already  mentioned  are  charming, 
though  again,  not  so  harming  as  the  men;  Stevens,  Bodenheim, 
Johns,  etc;  they  all  have  good  brains  except  perhaps  Mary  Carolyn 
Davies. 

"Jonah"  by  Aldous  Huxley  (printed  privately)  is  witty  and  accom- 
plished and  contains  sorrie  of  the  most  finished  poems  produced  in 
this  country  during  the  war.  The  French  poems  are  only  comparable 
with  those  of  Mr.  Eliot  which  appeared  in  this  review.  The  Oxford 
Volunteers  is  a  tour-de-force  and  I  am  sorry  that  the  war  will  not 
allow  me  to  quote  it.  "The  Betrothal  of  Priapus"  is  an  excellent 
poem  worthy  of  his  master  Laforgue.  "Jonah,"  "Behemoth," 
"Minoan",  "Porcelain"  are  brilliant. 


Th*    Lit  tit    Review 


33 


"Al  Que  Quiere"  by  William  Carlos  WilJiams  (Four  Seas 
Company)  is  the  mvost  important  "IJobk  which  has  come  from  among 
the  Imagists.  It  cost  a  dollar  and  the  publisher  says  that  he  does 
not  give  a  damn  whether  you  like  it  or  not  because  he  has  "the 
profound  satisfaction  of  publishing  a  book  in  which  the  poets  of 
the  future  will  dig  for  material  as  the  poets  of  to-day  dig  in 
Whitman's  Leaves  of  Grass.  For  once  a  publisher's  notice  con- 
tains some  measure  of  truth.  "Spring-strains"  is  a  marvellous  poem. 
All  the  poems  are  direct  in  treatment  and  confined  as  nearly  as 
possible  to  the  monosylla(ble.  Every  word  has  therefore  WEIGHT, 
place  and  individual  significance  —  there  is  no  turgidity.  It  is  a 
fallacy  to  assume  that  turgidity  of  emotion  or  of  atmosphere  must 
or  even  can  be  reproduced  by  obscurity  of  writing  of  implied  in  a 
web  of  onomatopoeic  sound.  Many  of  the  poems  are  already  known 
to  me,  but  the  consistency  of  his  achievement  was  not  apparent  until 
they  were  collected  in  this  book.  It  also  clears  up  the  "Improvisa- 
tions" which  appeared  some  time  ago  in  this  paper. 

"Poems  of  To-day  (Sidgwick  and  Jackson)  for  the  use  of 
children  already  familiar  with  the  classics  is  a  little  presumptuous 
in  imagining  that  such  children  will  want  to  read  Ada  Smith,  Mar- 
garet L.  Woods,  Newbolt  etc..  on  England,  Home  and  Beauty. 
There  are  however  Sturge  Moore  and  Yeats  among  them.  The  in- 
telligent child  will  find  its  way.    So  will  the  stupid. 

"Wilderness  Love  Songs"  (Headley  Brothers),  by  Mary  Ra- 
leigh Richardson,  has  directness  of  treatment  and  a  certain  naivete 
of  expression.  Unfortunately  the  view-point  is  vulgar  and  her  di- 
rectness mixed  with  usual  poetic  slush.  A  poem  "The  C.  0.  and 
the  V.  C."  shows  her  sympathies  are  in  the  right  place.  Grammar 
frequently  awful. 

Ford  Madox  Hueffer's  "On  Heaven"  is  at  last  in  volume  form 
(John  Lane).  Unfortunately  it  is  impossible  to  criticise  a  good 
poem.  One  just  says  that  it  is  good  and  leaves  it.  The  newer 
poems  in  this  book  are  some  of  them  equally  good,  although  coher- 
ence is  occasionally  broken  by  sudden  interpolation  of  a  too  per- 
sonal set  of  symbols.  His  danger  is,  I  think,  a  too  easy  and  unre- 
served response  to  emotion.  He  ought  to  be  a  bad  warrior  since 
be  wears  no  annour. 


34 


The    Little    Review 


An    International     Episode 

{Reprinted  jrom  "Poetry"^) 

Some  of  our  readers  have  asked  me  what  .number  of  the.  English^ 
Review  would  contain  my  reply  to  Edgar  Jepson's  article  of  last  May.- 
Let   me   answer   with    the    following   correspondence: 

Mr.  Austin  Harrison,  Editor  of  The  English  Reviciv,  to  Miss  Mon- 
roe,   returning    flie    latter s        manuscript,"  Mr.  Jcpson  and  United- 
States  Poetry": 

Dear  Miss  Monroe: 

.1  really  think  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  enter  into  a  controversy 
over  Jepson's  article.  We  are  very  fntl  at  this  moment  and  I  conld 
not  in  any  case  find  room  nozv.  , 

Miss  Harriet  Monroe  to  Mr.  Austin  Har)-ison: 
My  dear  Mr.  Harrison: 

Vour  -letter  of  July  gth,  returning  my  comments  on  Mr.  Jepson, 
renunds  me  of  the  Kaiser's  reply  to  Belgiu)n.  You  invade  our  prov- 
ince, quite  uninvited  and  undSsired,  and  kill  o.ff.  its  most  .prominent 
citizens^  Then,  when  Tprotest,  you  inform  me  that  "'it  is  hardly 
necessary  to  enter  into  a  controversy." 

It  would  have  been  more  in  accordance  zvith  the  British  tradition 
of  fair  play  if  this  consideration  had  caused  you  to  decline  ' Mr. ■ 
Jepson's  egregiously  caddish  article. 

And  so  ends  an   international   episode. 

Or  perhaps  not.  quite  ends.  For  the  iJittle  Reviezv,  now  under  the 
dictatorship  of  Ezra  Pound,  reprints  a  condensation  of  Mr.  Jepsons' 
article  in  its  latest  number,  Mr.  Pound  stating  in  his  footnote  .that  the 
article  was  "ordered"  by  Poetry  "and  then  rejected  for  its  lack  of  flat- 
tery." -Let  us  take  the  trouble  to  set  Mr.  Pound  right:  our  letter  tP 
Mr.  Jepson  saying  that  we  might  wish  to  use  his  proposed  "apprecisi- 
tion"  of  American  poetry  was  not  an  ''order,"  and  our  rejection  of  it 
was  not  due  to  it§  "lack  of  flattery,"  but  to  its  cheap  incompetence. 
By  the' reprint  Mr.  Pound  freshens  up,  so  to  speak,  the  article's  attack 
on  Poetry,  a  magazine  which,' during  the  past  six  years,  he  has  so  am- 
ial)ly   represented   in    London.      Evidently   this    poet    oheys    the    scrip- 


The    Little    Review  35 


tural  injunction-  not  to   let   his  right  hand  know  what  his  left  hand 
s  doing-. 

Perhaps  Mr.  Harrison  was  not  without  excuse  in  declining  my 
article,  for  Mr.  Jepsori's  was  certainly  not  worth  a  controversy— 
the  only  wonder  is  that  any  editor,  however  insular,  could  consider  it 
worth  his  space.  Opinionating,  however  denunciatory,  is  not  cri- 
ticism. To  call  Mr.  Frost's  "Snow"  "a  maundering  burble."  or  to 
iclispose  of  "The  Chinese  Nightingale"  as  "harmless  enough  verse 
.  inspired  by  "The  Ingoldsby  Legends'  (which  Mr.  Lindsay  had 
never  heard  of),  or  to  dismiss  with  scorn  Cloyd  Head's  closely 
woven  "Grotesques"  after  reading  "at  random"  four  lines,  proves 
nothing  except  that  Mr.  Jeipson  should  apply  to  himself  his  con- 
idemnation  of  Edgar  Lee  Masters  by  admitting  that  he  has  ''no  poetic 
quality  of  any  kind"— or  critical  either. 

Harriet  Monroe. 


The    Episode    Continued 
jh 

I  suppose  there  are  a  lot  of  things  to  be  said  about  the  above  and 
about  a  number  of  other  things  if  one  had  the  interest  or  the  in- 
clination. 

Judging  from  the  reverberations  a  great  many  people  got  ex- 
cited over  Mr.  Tepson's  article  and  a  great  many  more  sufifer  loudly 
and   continually   over   Mr.   Pound. 

Miss  Monroe  is  not  the  first  to  tell  us  that  the  Little  Review 
is  under  the  dictatorship  of  Pound.  Our  idea  of  having  a  foreign 
editor  is  not  to  sit  in  our  New  York  office  and  mess  up,  censor,  or 
throw  out  work  sent  to  us  by  an  editor  in  London.  We  have  let 
Ezra  Pound  be  our  foreign  editor  in  the  only  way  we  see  it.  We 
have  let  him  be  as  foreign  as  he  likes:  foieign  to  taste,  foreign  to" 
courtesy,  foreign  to  our  standards  of  Art.  All  because  we  believe 
in  the  fundamental  idea  back  of  our  connection  with  Mr.  Pound: 
the  inteiest  and  value  of  an  intellectual  communication  between 
Europe  and  America.  If  anyone  can  tell  us  of  a  more  untiring,  effi- 
cient, better-equipped  poet  to  take  over  the  foreign  office  let  us 
hear  from  him. 


1 


3^  T hg    Little   Review 


I  cannot  understand  how  any  one  with  enough  intelligence  to 
read  the  Little  Review  could  have  thought  of  Mr.  Jepson's  article 
as  aesthetic  criticism.  Aesthetic  criticism  can  onlj'  deal  with  work  in 
which  aesthetic  activity  is  present . ..  Mr.  Jepson  uses  all  the  thread- 
bare terminology  of  half-baked  aesthetic  criticism:  "hammering  out 
his  idea",  "the  poet's  vision  of  the  world",  "fine  flower  of  the  spirit" 
etc..  to  place  work  which  he  claims  has  no  more  to  do  with  poetry  than 
with  "rat-catching".  Why  any  confusion?  Aesthetic  criticism  of  rat- 
catching?  Medical  criticism  of  ship-building?  Religious  criticism  o' 
farming? 

That  Mr.  Jepson  reads  Homer  "beautifully"  or  discourses  on 
Catallus  can  scarcely  excuse  the  shallowness  of  such  assertions  as 
that  the  technical  activity  is  the  prime  activity  of  Art,  or  his  discus- 
sion of  subject  matter,  voices,  times  or  places  as  if  these  things  hai 
anything  to  do  with  the  intuition  of  Beauty. 

Of  course  I  don't  know  what  may  have  been  Mr.  Jepson's  idea 
but  Pound  calls  his  article  criticism  in  a  footnote.  Cursing,  endles- 
lepetitions  of  abuse  of  all  outsiders,  and  a  mutual  advertising  agencj 
for  themselves,  seem  to  be  a  popular  kind  of  in-door-sport  of  the 
literary  lizards  in  London.     They  call  it  criticism. 

Neither  can  I  quite  see  literature  reduced  to  a  profession  of  the 
mind  in  just  the  way  these  men  do  it.  Among  other  things  I  am 
thinking  of  the  Henry  James  number  with  its  legal  smell:  "Step  intc 
my  ofifice  and  I  will  tell  you  of  Mr.  James". 

We  believe  in  the  ancient  truth  that  real  appreciation  of  the  art? 
is  in  some  degree  related  to  creation  and  cannot  be  taught,  learned 
willed  or  filched;  much  less  can  it  be  hammered  into  people  or  pul 
upon  them  by  threats,  jeers  and  revilings.  Pound's  animadversion? 
of  his  own  countrymen  induce  a  sullen  boredom  and  a  greater  inat- 
tention of  the  arts,  while  his  "slurs"  and  "insults"  of  foreign  races 
and  nationalities  living  here  arouse  anger  and  bewilderment.  I  have 
had  countless  letters  from  Jews,  Letts,  Greeks,  Finns,  Irish,  etc.,  pro- 
testing  against  Mr.  Pound's  ignorance  and  indiscrimination.  1  have 
answered  that  this  is  always  true  of  mushroom  nations:  this  fixed 
imperception  of  the  qualities  and  culture  of  all  other  nations.  .A^nd 
then  there  are  some  of  us  who  come  from  races  of  ancient  culture 
to  whom  Mr.  Pound's  ravings  sound  but  the  torturings  of  an  inferi- 
ority complex. 

.  .  .  and  all  this  has  nothing  to  do  with  editing  a  magazine.     Cri 
ticism,  praise,  contempt,  commiseration,  —  there  is  not  enough  r 


I 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  $j 

i^tance  in  tlie  whole  country  for  one  grown  liuman  being.  As  long 
s  Mr.  Pound  sends  us  work  by  Yeats,  Joyce,  Eliot,  de  Bosschere,  — 

nrk  bearing  the  stamp  of  originality  and  permanence  —  we  have 
<>  complaint  of  him  as  an  editor.  If  we  are  slightly  jarred  by  his 
lanner  of  asking  for  alms,  or  by  any  other  personal  manifestation, 

e  can  take  care  of  that  outside  the  magazine.  We  need  no  commi- 
eration  for  our  connection  with  Mr.  Pound.  We  are  not  blind  de- 
cient  children.  .Ml  this  again  1  say  has  nothing  to  do  with  editing 
magazine  of  the  arts.  It  is  all  vcrj'  much  only  the  outermost 
ibrations   of  discussions   and   replies. 

I  think  I  really  started  to  write  this  because  I  scented  an  implied 
riticism  of  Chicago  in  Mr.  Jepson's  article.  Every  one  gets  jumpy 
ver  criticism  for  one  cause  or  another:  if  not  from  mental  timidity, 
om  sentimentality.     I  reject  all  ciiticism  of  Chicago,  sentimentally. 

have  seen  some  of  the  great  cities  of  the  world  and  many  of  the 
ner  ones.     I  know  Chicago  to  the  skin  and  bone.     And  Chicago  has 

thrall. 

I  know  it  has  an  .Art  Institute  which  advertises  Art  and  Com- 
lerce.  It  has  electric-lighted  statues  in  its  parks  and  will  be  ruined 
irever  by  a  "city  beautiful"  plan  designed  by  some  of  its  aunts  of 
rt.  1  know  its  "artistic"  life  is  segregated  to  a  few  blocks  on  the 
oulevard  and  can  be  easily  avoided.  Its  artists  live  like  refugees  or 
ork  on  newspapers.  I  know  its  blatancies,  its  swaggers,  its  displays, 
s  timidities  of  approaching  adolescence.  Its  people:  infantile.  I 
now  all  the  other  obvious,  chronic  things. 
I   know  its  glamour. 

Pounding      Ezra 

(A   Conversation  .  .  .  .  ) 

rHERE  is  about  the  writings  of  Ezra  Pound  the  dubious  charm 
of  a  graceful  old  maid.  I  find  in  him  an  elusive  boredom.  His 
:)etry  is  an  etiquette,  his  prose  a  less  meticulous  but  not  quite  per- 
lasive  gesture.  His  whims  are  tired,  his  fancies  keep  falling  asleep 
In  essaying  this  sort  of  rigamarole  judgment  of  Pound,  I  sub- 
:ribe  to  no  standards  he  may  have  violated  nor  nurse  any  tenets  of 
hich  he  may  have  fallen  short.  In  fact  my  complaint  against  Ezra 
I  that,  having  attracted  me  time  and  again  with  the  promise  of  de- 


38  The    Little    Review 

lightful  cerebral  embraces,  he  is  forever  bidding  me  adieu  with  no 
more  than  a  languid  handshake — a  suave,  a  fastidious,  an  irreproach- 
able^  but  still  a  handshake.  And  thus  I  report  now  from  no  other  in- 
spiration than  the  petulence  of  one  who,  rushing  forward  to  sin, 
remains  to  pray. 

Perhaps  Pound's  place  is,  as  others  have  fervently  pointed  out,  in 
the  literary  politics  of  the  day  rather  than  in  its  literature.  He  may 
be  an  influence,  the  patriarch  cod  of  the  vers  libre  school  "or  anything 
of  the  sort  which  it  beguiles  less  fallible  historians  than  myself  tc 
noiminate  him.  My  relations  with  his  work,  however,  are  entireh 
personal.  I  am  unable  to  perceive  any  influence  in  it.  The  variou- 
rules  for  the  writing  of  poetry  which  he  has  from  time  to  time  handec 
down  from  his  fastidious  Sinai,  I  have  regarded  always  as  the  surviv 
ing  and  irrepressible  capers  of  the  pedagogue  either  Pound  was  in 
his  youth  or  in  a  previous  incarnation.  Rules  and  don'ts  are  thing; 
more  applicable  to  hotel  bath  rooms  than  to  poetry.  I  do  not  under 
stand  how  rules  for  the  writing  of  poetry  can  possibly  produce  a  poet 
And  without  producing  a  poet  other  than  himself  I  can  see  no  credi 
in  being  an  Influence. 

That  Pound  has  flushed  covey  upon  covey  of  irritating  imitators  is 
.too  obvious  for  comment.  I  dismiss  this  political  aspect  of  his  worl 
with  the  report,  based  entirely  upon  prejudice,  that  Pound  to  me  hai 
appeared  always  as  some .  Pied  Piper  luring  his  swarm  of  literarj 
rodents  out  of  their  conventional  stables  to  their  doom. 

A  man  is  an  influence  by  what  he  does  rather  than  by  the  facili 
explanations  of  how  he  happened  to  do  it.  Or — in  the  words  of  m; 
grammar  school  copy  book  ....     But  the  matter  is  dismissed. 

I  concern  myself  with  the  things  Ezra  Pound  has  written.  0 
these  I  have  read  only  a  book  of  poems  called  "Lustra",  an  indefinabl 
volume  called  "Pavannes  and  Divisions"  and  four  or  five  scattered  6s 
says,  five  or  six  scattered  poems  which  may  have  been  collected  else- 
where. From  this  reading  I  have  achieved  the  conviction  tha 
Pound's  is  a  sane,  clear  visioned,  cultured  mind.  I  dislike  calling  peo 
pie  cultured  but  the  man  "knows"  so  hopelessly  many  more  thing 
than  do  I  that  the  word  comes  naturally  to  my  aid.  My  usual  weapol 
for  creatures  who  have  had  the  leisure  to  assimilate  more  than  I  i 
the  bloody  and  terrifying  mace  Academic.  This,  Pound  is  not.  H( 
has  devoured  the  devil  knows  how  many  books  but  he  has  digestec 
-them.  Perhaps  he  is  too  full — perhaps  his  languor  is  that  of  the  hridi 
ra-ther  than   the   old  maid.     Such   distinction   is,   however,  beside   thi 


T he    Little    Review  39 


issue.  The  point  is  that  nothing  Pound  lias  devoured  has  stuck  in 
his  throat  to  be  spewed  up  as  statistics  with  which  to  embarrass  the 
young.  The  things  that  Pound  has  got  out  of  esoteric  volumes  have 
made  him  merry  rather  than  profound. 

Of  James  Branch  Cabell,  a  writer  whom  I  cannot  regard  other 
than  as  professor,  I  once  wrote  ....  "the  disillusion  of  a  man  who 
ihas  read  too  much  rather  than  lived  too  completely  ....  A  wistful 
librarian  spying  upon  the  world  through  the  dust  of  ancient  manus- 
cripts." 

For  saying  this  I  was  solemnly  spanked.  Nevertheless  I  still  be- 
lieve it.     Not  so  of  Pound. 

,  Hovvever,  I  am  being  betrayed  by  my  natural  admiration  for  the 
man,  into  praise,.,  which  is  not  my  intention.  In  order,  nevertheless, 
o.  satisfy  my  little-exercised  sense  of  justice,  I  will  go  on.  Cultured 
Pound  is,  and  more  than  that,  sane  and  clear  visioned.  His  reflections 
upon  the  art  of  others  are  based  upon  shrewd,  definite  understandings, 
nd  upon,  intuitions  of  taste  more  fluid  and  sensitive  than  those  of 
Pollard,  Mencken,  Huneker,  Ellis.  .  By  this  I  mean  nothing  more 
than  that  I  agree  with  him.  Although  I  was  once  pleased  by  "The 
ridings  Brought  to  Mary" — a  play  by  Caudel  under  whose  Catholic 
seat  Ezra  is  continually  exploding  firecrackers. 

In  addition  to  his  critical  genius  Pound  has  also  ideas  about  life 
o  which  "I  subscribe.  He  is  ready  with  a  pensive  razzberry  for  every 
^^ariety  of  sham  in  the  calender  of  the  saints.  The  decay  of  the  soul 
under  religious  morality  inspires  him  to  proper  protest.  And  his 
rony  is  not  the  clumsy  irony  of  Cabell  who  bids  one  look  at  the 
orld  from  a  perch  amid  the  stars  and  see  how  little  it  is.  Pound's 
irony  is  not  the  Teutonic  shrug  of  "what  will  it  all  matter  a  hundred 
years  from  now?" 

Also  he  is  a  decadent, — -famous,  generality.  1  mean  by  this,  how- 
ever, that  as  an  artist  he  is  concerned  with  the  color  of  a  cat's  eyes 
ather  than  with  tlie  animal's  place  in  the  social  system.  All  this 
about  Pound  is  what  lures  me  to  him  with  the  promise  of  cerebral 
embrace.  And  yet  ,  I  have  just  come  away  from  another  languid 
hiandshake  :     "Pavannes  and  Divisions." 

What  is  it,  then,  wrong  with  Pound — for  it  does  not  occur  to  me 
0  blame  myself?     I  can  answer  this  thing  convincingly  to  myself. 

There  is  no  ecstasy  in  Pound-  There  is  no  tumult  in  him.  Hell 
take  the  quibble  about  emotion; — personal  emotion — in  art,  I  ^m. 
not  referring  to  that.     I   know  of  no  lines  or  ideas  that  Pound  has 


40  The    Little    Review 

ever  plagarized.  And  yet  he  has  always  about  him  the  air  of  a  mimic. 
His  style  appeals  to  me  not  as  the  cunning  mask  for  ideas  but  as  in- 
flections borrowed,  as  posturings  filched  for  a  moment  from  a  schol- 
astic wardrobe  trunk.  He  does  not  present  to  me  a  style — but  a 
series  of  portrayals.  Elsie  Janis  doing  Bernhart,  Eddie  Foy  and 
George  Cohan  ... 

Also,  he  writes  like  an  "old  master"  looks — faded  and  impressive. 
He  is  too  damned  carefcil  of  his  lamentable  rules  and  regulations. 
He  is  timorous  of  disonances  and  strophes  and  rhythyms  and  what 
not-  He  launches  his  phrases  with  the  nervous  scrupulous  air  of  one 
launching  tiny  ships  upon  too  broad  a  sea. 

His  vocabulary  shudders  at  itself  and  bids  itself  take  heed — there 
are  the  entities  and  the  verities  and,  God  help  him,  the  proprieties  to 
observe.  What  makes  the  stylist?  With  my  friend  Mr.  Wallace 
Smith  I  repeat,  "I'll  bite?" 

I  do  not  know  what  makes  the  stylist  any  more  than  I  know  what 
is  art,  and  what,  by  the  whiskers  of  all  prophets,  is  not  until  I  see  a 
work  of  art  itself.  And  then,  beyond  certain  elementals,  the  matter, 
as  like  as  not,  depends  upon  the  condition  of  my  bowels  and  the 
color  of  the  day. 

"Pavannes  and  Divisions"  is  a  composition  to  inspire  respect  and 
admiration.  Its  opening  bit  of  irony  and  its  chapter  on  De  Gourmont 
particularly  appealed  to  me.  In  them  Pound  successfully  refutes 
most  of  what  I  can  scrape  up  against  him. 

But  the  book  is — to  revert  to  my  favorite  habit  of  generalizing — a 
talented  dancer  handicapped  by  an  aversion  to  rouge  and  legs  more 
than  ethereally  thin.  I  do  not  intend  to  argue  that  rouge  and  a 
shapely  leg  make  the  stylist.    I  do  not  intend  to  argue  anything. 

"Remy  de  Gourmont."  writes  Pound,  "has  embedded  his  philos- 
ophy  in  a  luxurious  mist  of  the  senses." 

Were  Pound  writing  of  himself  he  might  say,  "Ezra  Pound  of 
Idaho  has  etche-d  his  philosophy  upon  a  moonbeam." 

Undoubtedly  the  faults  that  my  prejudice  for  "loxurious  mists  of 
the  senses"  manages  to  find  in  Pound  are  the  virtues  of  which  he  is 
most  pleasantly  conceited.  Undoubtedly  it  may  be  said  that  the 
desire  for  stronger  music  and  for  madder  wine  argues  a  taste  a  bit 
coarsened.  And  yet,  I  cling  to  the  stubborn  disillusion  of  the  yokel 
lured  into  the  tent  by  the  seductive  lithographs  without.  To  me 
Pound  remains  the  exquisite  showman  minus  a  show. 


The   Littli    Review  41 

I  conclude  full  of  ethical  confusions-  The  whimsical  canaille  who 
police  the  arts  with  their  yelps  do  not  fancy  Pound.  To  his  immortal 
credit  let  it  be  shouted  that  they  consider  him  a  low  and  vulgar  ass, 
a  sort  of  filthy  smart  aleck.  To  his  everlasting  fame  let  it  be  heralded 
that  in  the  eyes  of  the  literary  laws  of  his  day  Pound  was  a  primping 
and  obnoxious  clown.  I  know  of  no  greater  praise  for  him  than  that 
the  fraternity  of  half-witted  hacks,  diapered  pundits  and  flatulent 
nightschool  wits  who  constitute  the  general  run  of  newspaper  edito- 
rial writers,  book  reviewers,  and  column  conductors  of  the  day,  con- 
sider him  as  they  do.  I  envy  him  his  enemies.  Billingsgate  for  Bil- 
lingsgate, I  know  of  no  more  agreeable  pastime  than  "defending" 
Ezra  against  the  redolent  Sutterings  of  the  half  dead. 

It  is  for  this  reason  that  I  assume  an  apologetic  vagueness  in 
talking  of  him  as  I  have.    It  is  a  vagueness  I  do  not  actually  feel. 

Major    Robert    Gregory* 

(  A  Note  oj  ApprecMfion  from  the  "Observer",  Febrimry  17,  1918.J 

W.    B.    Yeats 

I  have  known  no  man  accomplished  in  so  many  ways  as  Major 
Robert  Gregory,  who  was  killed  in  action  a  couple  of  weeks  ago 
and  buried  by  his  fellow-airmen  in  the  beautiful  cemetery  at  Padua. 
His  very  accomplishment  hid  from  many  his  genius.  He  had  so 
many  sides:  painter,  classical  scholar,  scholar  in  painting  and  in 
modern  literature,  boxer,  horseman,  airman  —  he  had  the  Military 
Cross  and  the  Legion  d'Honneur  —  that  some  among  his  friends 
were  not  sure  what  his  work  would  be.  To  me  he  will  always  re- 
main a  great  painter  in  the  immaturity  of  his  youth,  he  himself 
the  personification  of  handsome  youth.  I  first  came  to  understand 
his  genius  when,  still  almost  a  boy,  he  designed  costumes  and 
scenery  for  the  Abbey  Theatre.  Working  for  a  theatre  that  could 
only  aflford  a  few  pounds  for  the  staging  of  a  play,  he  designed   for 


*  Editor's  note:  Since  the  publication  of  Mr.  Yeats's  poem  on 
Robert  Gregory  which  appeared  in  the  September  number  we  have 
received  so  many  letters  asking  for  particulars  about  Robert  Gregory, 
and  whether  be  was  the  son  of  Lady  Gregory,  that  I  feel  we  can  do 
no  better  than  to  reprint  this  beojctiful  note  of  appreciation. 


42  T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Review 

Lady  Gregory's  Kinkora  and  her  hiiagc  and  for  my  Shadowy  Wat* 
and  for  Synge's  Deirdrc  of  the  Sorrows  —  decorations  which,  obtai 
ing  their  effect  from  the  fewest  possible  lines  and  colours,  had  alwa 
the  grave  distinction  of  his  own  imagination.  When  he  began 
paint,  accustomed  to  an  older  school  of  painting,  I  was  long  p( 
plexed  by  what  seemed  to  me  neglect  of  detail.  But  in  a  few  yea 
I  came  to  care  for  his  paintings  of  the  Clare  coast,  with  his  clo 
shadows  upon  blue-grey  stony  hills,  and  for  one  painting  of  a  n 
very  different  scenery  by  his  friend,  Innes,  more  than  for  any  co 
temporary  landscape  painting.  A  man  of  letters  may  perhaps  find 
work  such  as  this,  or  in  old  Chinese  painting,  in  the  woodcuts  ai 
etchings  of  Calvert  and  Palmer,  in  Blake's  woodcuts  to  Thorntoi 
Virgil,  in  the  landscape  background  of  Mr.  Ricketts'  "Wise  and  Fo( 
ish  Virgins,"  something  that  he  does  not  find  in  the  great  mode 
masters,  and  that  he  cares  for  deeply.  Is  it  merely  that  these  m 
share  certain  moods  with  great  Ij'ric  poetry,  with,  let  us  say,  t 
"Leach  Gatherer"  of  Wordsworth;  or  that  their  moods,  unlike  tho 
of  men  with  more  objective  curiosity,  are.  a  part  of  the  tradition 
expression  of  the  soul?  One  always  understood  by  something 
his  selection  of  line  and  of  colour  that  he  had  read  his  Homer  and  Y 
Virgil  and  his  Dante:  that  they,  while  giving  something  of  thet 
selves,  had  freed  him  from  easy  tragedy  and  trivial  comedy. 

Though  he  often  seemed  led  away  from  his  work  by  sor 
other  gift,  his  attitude  to  life  and  art  never  lost  intensity  —  he  w 
never  the  amateur.  I  have  noticed  that  men  whose  lives  are  to 
an  ever-growing  absorption  in  subjective  beauty  —  and  I  am  n 
mainly  remembering  Calvert's  philosophy  of  myth  and  his  music 
theory,  or  Verlaine's  sensuality,  or  Shelley's  politics  —  seek  throuj 
some  lesser  gift,  or  through  mere  excitement,  to  strengthen  that  s< 
which  unites  them  to  ordinarjr  men.  It  is  as  though  they  hesitatt 
before  they  plunged  into  the  abyss.  Major  Gregory  told  Mr.  Be 
nard  Shaw,  who  visited  him  in  France,  that  the  months  since  1 
joined  the  army  had  been  the  happiest  of  his  life.  I  thit 
they,  brought  him  peace  of  mind,  an  escape  from  that  shrin! 
ing,  which  I  sometimes  saw  upon  his  face,  before  the  gro\ 
ing  absorption  of  his  dream,  the  loneliness  of  his  dream,  as  from  h 
constant  struggle  to  resist  those  other  gifts  that  brought  him  ea; 
and  friendship.  Leading  his  squadron  in  France  or  in  Italy,  mir 
and  hand  were  at  one,  will  and  desire. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  43 

The   Disease   0  f  "Am  e  r  i  c  a  n"  "Criticism" 

In  turning  over  the  pages  of  the  bound  volume  of  the  Little 
Review"  191 7-18  my  eye  is  caught  by  a  phrase  so  symptomatic  of 
the  dry  rot  of  American  art-talk  that  1  must  needs  dig  it  up  and  re- 
print it.  The  thing  in  itself  is  trifling.  In  my  opening  salute  I  made 
certain  remarks  about  English  literature  during  the  last  three  years. 
I  named  a  precise  and  definite  period  of  tliree  years  No  one  but  a 
matoid  could  have  misunderstood  the  simple  phrase  "during  the  past 
three  years".  A  child  of  seven  would  have  been  amply  qualified  to 
comprehend  both  the  numerical  adjective  "three"  and  the  substantive 
"years". 

What  Iiappens.  In  the  next  number  we  find  a  letter  to  the 
Little  Review,  attacking  my  remarks  in  the  May  number.  Excellent. 
Let  us  have  free  discussion.  But  note  the  method.  My  remarks 
abowt  "three  years"  are  translated  into  remarks  about  "recent  times". 
"During    recent    times"    so    and    so    ...    . 

That  sloppiness  is  so  utterly  and  absolutely  symptomatic,  — 
and  damn  the  state  of  mind  whereof  it  is  symptomatic!  —  that  I  wish 
to  focus  some  light  upon  it.  It  is  a  "trifle"  but  it  is  the  sort  of 
thing  that  goes  on  all  the  tiuie  and  utterly  vitiates  nine  tenths  of  artis- 
tic discussion 

There  is  not  a  serious  and  careful  statement  made  by  any  careful 
critic  of  our  decade  (decade,  ten  years)  but  some  soap-mouthed  inac- 
curatist  flys  into  a  froth  and  writes  pages,  usually  in  corner  columns 
and  for  pay,  stating  that  the  first  critic  has  said  something  or  other, 
superficially  like,  but  actually  dififerent  from  what  the  first  writer  did 
actually  say  .  .  This  inexact  statement  he  proceeds  to  call  "absurd". 
It  is  his  (the  second  critic's)  proposition. 

Men  writing  about  art  and  letters,  for  cash,  and  in  a  hurry,  are 
not  expected  to  preserve  the  rules  of  intellectual  honesty.  They 
haven't  time  or  energy  to  preserve  anything.  They  make  the  excuse 
that  they  are  "only  journalists"  and  nothing  else  can  be  expected 
of  them.  ..  , 

These  excuses,  poor  as  they  are,  do  not  apply  to  people  writing 
unpaid  letters,  or  to  people  pretending  to  care  for  the  arts. 

The  term  fuiniste  is  not  sufficiently  used  in  our  country. 

2 

A  technical  Newspaper-man's  paper  has  asked  me  to  write  an 
indictment  of  the  American  press.     Perhaps  I  shall  get  round  to  it  in 


44  T he    Lit  tie    Review 


time. 

It  will  not  be  an  indictment  of  "News",  which  is  I  believe  a  pro 
cess  in  which  a  certain  amount  of  honesty  can  be  employed. 

It  will  be  an  indictment  of  the  ignorance,  carelessness,  inaccur- 
acy of  practically  every  statement  made  concerning  literature  and 
the  arts  in  practically  every  paper  that  pretends  to  treat  of  tl?ese 
subjects. 

"Based  on  the  supposition  that  the  moon  is  thirty  miles  from  St 
Louis "...  this  sentence  "beginning  an  article  would  notify  the 
reader  that  a  "rag"  was  intended.  But  sentences  of  equal  import  have 
so  long  prefaced  discussions  of  literature  in  both  England  and  Ameri- 
ca that  editors  and  readers  alike  have  contracted  the  habit  of  treating 
the  adjacent  and  following  "copy"  with  seriousness  and  of  according 
to  it  the  "respect  due  to  our  elders". 

It  is  the  dance  of  foetid  frivolity.  The  British  Empire  is  n» 
better  oflf. 

THE   READER   CRITIC 

The    Audience* 

"The  use  of  articulate  speech  by  human  beings  is  inconsiderate" , 
said  the  pig.  "They  should  consider  our  capacity  for  comprehen 

sion.  We  can  neither  express  ourselves  in   this  fashion,  nor  can 

we  comprehend  the  utterance  of  these  humans".  "O  que  le  monde 

soit  porcine!" 

*(Special  dedication  to  E.  Hamilton  of  Chicago). 

Comments 

B.  O.  N.,  Chicago: 

Won't  you  ask  Ezra  to  go  ahead  and  make  some  remark-6  that 
would  oe  consid-^red  bright  m  the  twentieth  century? 

lean     de    Bosschere 

(to  notice  and  to  not) 

Sfanislaw  Szukalski,  Chicago: 

When  artist's  work  is  executed  in  desire  to  reach  expression 
with  usual  interpretation  of  forms  it  is  not  surprising  to  notice  that 


The    Little    Review  45 

people  of  extreme  texture  of  talents  will  be  very  often  close  to  being 
same. 

Like:  works  of  Diirer,  da  Vinci,  Holbein  will  in  some  instances 
ippear  unclassifiable  as  to  style. 

But  if  !  artist's  work  is  of  interpretative  style,  that  is  each  form 
s  translated  by  maker  into  art  with  his  colouring  of  laughter,  pity, 
sarcasm  or  English  respect  for  respectable  beauty,  his  work  will  be 
nore  dressed  into  style  of  surfaces,  and  in  such  moments  it  is  not 
"orgivable  if  he  dresses  his  "likings"  as  "likings"  of  others  are 
Iressed;  and  so- 
First  page  drawing  of  Jean  de  Bosschere — because  of  its 
execution  of  "forms"  —  is  squeezed  out  in  momentary  influence  of 
Frederick  J.  VVaugh.  And!  absence  of  personality  of  drawing  is 
Droving  only — that  not  always  we  can  dance  with  feeling  if  shoed  in 
lot  our  own  boots. 

Second    page    drawing?      same.  It    is    Egyptianized:     Klimt 

i^Vienese  artist see  Die  Kutist). 

This  is  not  to  notice  about  Bosschere. 

Now!  let  us  come  close  and  listen  to  his  laughters,  pressing  our 
;ars  to  his  stomach,  for  he  holds  them  there,  reboiling  them  into  black 
ar  which  runs  into  veins  that  feed  his,  shrieking  pen. 

This  man  goes  not  to  circus.  He  stays  with  his  friends  and 

spends  no  money  for  admission  ...  If  I  was  flea  and  went  among 
ny  brethren  that  is  villaged  somewhere  between  hips  of  elephant  I' 
ivould  become  artist  and  would  draw  my  friends  trying  to  human- 
ze  them  so  they  may  be  more  dignified. 

It  is  easy  to  imitate  Beardsley  for  real  artist  can  not  be  imi- 
ated.  Beardsley  would  be   expressing  himself  if  his  "self   was 

long  enough  to  reach  very  tip  of  drawing  pen.  But  unfortunately 
is  stopped  about  one  inch  from  its  end.  He  was  "all  pretense" 
ind  if  sincerity  broke  through  it  was  then  when  he  was  "absent". 
\rtist  who  does  not  feel  his  very  tip  of — let  us  say  brush,  pen,  pencil, 
Dr  so — is  not  one  who  wants  or  is  able  to  "give", — he  only  cares  to 
'receive"  and  he  easily  can  be  imitated. 

As  for  first  two  drawings  I  care  not  to  notice  them,  and  as  to 
ast  two  remaining  I  have  tremblance  of  enthusiastic  appreciation  . 

When  artist  "gives"  and  is  present  on  his  very  end  of  tip  he 
jwill  get  breathless  respond.  He  forces  his  audience  to  "give"  ap- 
preciation. 

Ay!  but  you  gave  beautifully!     Bosscherel 


46  T he    Li t tie    Review 


Breakfast    Resume 

Marsden  Hartley,  Taos,  New  Mexico: 

I  sit  with  tea  and  toast,  and  honey  made  from  flowers  in  New 
Mexico.  There  is  an  abundance  of  sweet  ipeas  in  the  flavour.  Be- 
fore me  rests  the  optically  distressing  green  of  the  Little  Review. 
I  have  laid  the  others  away.  In  the  presence  of  this  exceptionally 
colourful  country  there  is  too  much  of  superficial  Chinese  in  the 
neurotic  cerise,  egotistic  green,  feline  orange,  and  neurasthenic  cit- 
ron. What  is  inside  happily  changes  the  tone  somewhat  for  the 
eye  at  least,  and  helps  tea  and  toast  and  honey  along.  In  the  Yeats 
poem  we  have  an  unsuspected  letdown,  excepting  for  a  line  or  two.  I 
for  one  was  looking  for  a  work  of  art  with  the  name  Yeats,  in  the 
latest  stages  of  the  fullness  of  that  poet.  It  is  hardly  to  be  found 

here.  Comes   the   "Western   School"   of  Edgar  Jepson;  Why 

western,  with  Frost  in,  and  Sandburg  out?  Frost  is  in  no  way 

western.  It  is  nevertheless  a  worthy  tearing  down  of  idols,  and 

much  of  what  Jepson  says  is  true  and  ought  to  be  good  for  those 
men  who  are  considered.  The  examples  cited  are  hardly  the  best 
of  these  men.  Masters  or  Frost.  I  am  one  who  does  not  care  for  the 
American  language  in  its  present  stage  and  yet  I  think  Jepson 
stretches   points   in   spots.  I  think   English   as   it   stands   is   good 

enough  for  poets  of  sincerity  to  adhere  to,  and  for  those  who  are 
fond  of  words.  It  seems  a  pity  to  use  words  at  all  where  there  is 

not   a   real   admiration   for   them.  There   are   fine   things   in    the 

poets  Jepson  chooses  to  flay,  and  yet  I  think  something  is  to  be 
said  against  the  liljerties  they  take.  Lindsay  has  certainly  been 
anxious  lest  the  world  should  overlook  the  drum  and  the  megaphone. 

I  personally  do  not  like  jingle,  and  Lindsay  is  bent  double  with 
jingle.  If  Jepson  knew  the  yankee  and  his  country,  and  he  may 
know  it  better  than  the  yankee  himself,  he  would,  I  think,  find  much 
in  rost  to  commend  for  its  sincerity  at  least.  His  quality  of 
"muttering  to  himself",  "mulling  over  an  idea"  as  it  is  sometimes 
called,  is  so  essentially  yankee  in  the  New  England  sense  that  it  is 
this  if  nothing  else  which  makes  him  interesting.  He  has  put 
New  England  down  in  a  way  that  no  one  else  has  done. 

Robinson  and  Gould  are  New  England  also,  but  they  are  another 
pole.  These  two  latter  are  more  specifically  Maine,  and  Gould 
is    more    Maine    than    anybody.      Music    is    probably    the    thing    that 


The    Little    Review  47 


unts  after  all  in  poetry,  and  there  is  frequently  not  much  of  music 
Masters  or  Sandburg,  and  some  wonder  if  it  is  good  prose  also. 

Jepson's  appreciation  of  T.  S.  Eliot  is  hardly  borne  out  by  the 
ems  that  follow  him  in  the  Little  Review,  though  we  do  know  that 
S.  E.  has  done  far  better  things.  These  in  hand  will  hardly  bear  out 
pson  either  for  fine  Americanism,  or  for  fine  construction.  We 
all  not  expect  T.   S.   E.  to  live  long  on  them.     When    I   hit  upon 

word  "polyphiloprogenitive"  as  a  first  word  and  the  whole  line 
a  poem,  I  am  at  a  loss  for  the  feeling  of  music,  as  well  as  the 
auty  in  the  word.  Then  the  avalanche  that  follows!  I 
ve  to  give  the  teapot  another  twist  to  keep  my  eye  from  skewing 
It.  "Paraclete",  "pustular",  "piaculative",  "epicene",  "polymath", 

in    one    little    poem.  I    feel    as    if   lemon   juice    were    running 

ough  the  optical  nerve,  down  the  marrow  of  my  spine.  I  feel 

"puckered"  with  p's,  and  p  is  not  so  handsome  as  to  have,  run 
th  such  eagerness  to  it.  I  get  little  jerks  to  my  morning  sen- 

ility, and  feel  sorry  for  the  i)iece  that  has  to  support  so  niuch 
n  work  for  the  thin  tracery  that  surmounts  it.  I  had  a  similar 

)ck  in  the  July  neurasthenic  citron  number  ^from  the  phrase 
Dluploisbius    twitter"    in    one    of   the    dissertations    of    E.    P.  I 

/e  no  dictionary  of  this  size  in  the  desert,  and  yet  I  thought  I 
V  a  procession  of  Dynosaurus  and  Icthyiosaurus  monsters  and  the 
ole  line  of  mastodons  coming  up  over  the  canyons  and  the  sage- 
ish  when  my  eye  fell  on  that  arrangement.  I   recovered  from 

•   fright,    only    to    take    to    cover   again    with    Mr.    Eliot .  Our 

lericans   abroad  are   certainly  formidable   in   their   intelligence.      I 

wanting  to  think  however  thiat  erudition  is  one  thing,  the  dic- 
nary    another,    and    poetry    different    from    either    of    them.  I 

fer  for  "Little  lamb-  who  made  thee,  dost  thou  know  who  made 
in    the    presence    of    the    Pound-Eliot   phraseology.  Poetry 

y  be  the  place  for  private  excursions  into  the  oddities  of  language, 
le  journies  into  the  lairs  of  little  known  animals,  but  it  does  not 
m  to  me  the  place  for  the  rattling  of  so  much  tin.  Bronze  is 

11  good  enough  for  the  common  ear. 

Yeats   and   Eliot   then   give  us   the   drop  in  this   number.  An 

ay  by  Yeats  on  Lionel  Johnson,  Singe,  Pollfoxen,  "our  Sidney 
1  our  perfect  man,  soldier,  scholar,  horseman  he"  etc.,  would  it 
ms  to  rrie  have  been  a  happier  medium.  Perhaps   the   instinct 

song  will  prove  more  than   diligence  at  Webster  or  the   Oxford 


48  The    Little    Review 


categories,  in  the  case  of  the  Eliot-Pound  method.  It  is  not  as 

good  as  Browning. 

Again,  possibly  those  whose  blissful  ignorance  along  their 
"yokel"  road  sets  them  smiling  too  wilfully,  should  in  all  humility 
genuflect  and  make  the  sign  of  the  cross  upon  their  crassly  stupid 
foreheads  with  thanksgiving,  for  the  rich  bestowals  of  American 
manna  from  an  English  heaven.  •  Pound  makes  us  wonder  with  his 
incessantly    tedious    schoolmaster   whippings.  Naughty   boy,   my 

countryman,   not  to  know   so   much!  A   little  intellectual   "peni- 

tente"  might  be  good  for  him  also.  Maybe  he  has  suffered  enough 

already,  in  which  case  I  could  urge  no  more  pain.  I  should  be 

humblest  and  proudest  of  all,  for  Pound  once  asked  me  to  write  for 
the  Egoist  an  elaboration  of  a  preface  I  write  for  one  of  my  ex- 
hibitions. I  appreciate  this  still  and  hope  one  day  to  rise  to  the 
distinction.  Pound  has  stated  himself  clearly  further  over  in  the  issue 
on  the  value  of  savantism  and  literacy.  Critics  should  of  necessity 
know  more  because  they  have  more  •  to  ^profess.  I  congratulate 
E.  P.  on  knowing  a  genuine  lot.  There  is  a  something  outside  of 
books  so  engaging  however,  that  many  haven't  time  for  the  life  of 
the  printed  page,  enticing  as  it  is.  Life  is  such  a  game,  that  there 
are  many  who  can't  get  down  to  culture. 

In  "Senility"  Sherwood  Andeison  shows  himself  to  be  a  fine 
artist,  in   the   conte   drolatique  ,  Wallace   Gould  the   Maine   poet 

called  him  once  the  real  successor  of  Maupassant,  which  sounds  at 
least  possible.  I  did  not  feel  the  same  power  in  "Marching  Men" 
Maybe  Anderson  is  not  master  of  the  historical  canvas,  and  after  all 
what  difference  does  it  make?  Pound  gives  my  feeling  on  Szu 
kalski.  It  is  for  me  a  sheet  out  of  Jugend.  He  will  never  bt 
seen  by  the  side  of  Gaudier  Brzeska  or  Aubrey  Beardsley.  Ii 
is  too  far  a  cry  from  Dvirer's  "Meancholy"  and  the  equisite  irony  oi 
Beardsley  to  the  illustrations  of  Szukalski.  It  is  belated,  and  al 

art  overdue  is  certain  to  be  sad. 

Ben  Hecht's  "Decay."  Joyce  is  Joyce  always,  light,  witty  anc 

playfully  incisive.  What  are  "soft  bubbling  alleys"?  "Ulcerou< 
shadows"  is  certainly  more  painfully  vivid  in  Hecht.  What  maj 

soft  bubbling  alleys  bubble  with,  beer,  laughter,  or  fornication  oi 
just  plain  simple  human  life.  Hecht  is  for  me  too  much  steaming 

stench.  I  feel  my  feet  clogged  with  offal  from  dejected  alleys.  1 
like  good  country  mud.  I  am  running  in  my  mind  to  the  Towei 


The    Little    Review  49 


f  Silence  in  India  where  vultures  sit  preening  a  bored  wing,  with 
arched  and  clotted  beaks  waiting  for  the  dumping  of  fresh  carcasses 
om  the  world's  death  houses.  He  has  an  avid  eye  for  dejection 

tid  the  accompanying  miseries.  He  is  certainly  a  lover  of  drip- 

ing   sweat,   and   the   other   smelly   characteristics   of   the    flesh. 

Flesh  with  air  around  it  smells  often  like  summer  fragrance,  but  in 
hot  tenement  I  want  the  wind  from  the  lake.  I  would  suspect 
lecht  of  too  much  "human  sympathy",  or  may  be  there  Is  not  enough, 
[owling  children,  fierce-eyed  pregnant  women,  and  the  stench  of 
literate  skin  are  a  form  of  art  I  suppose  ;  I  would  leave  them 
ly  minute  for  a  circus  parade  or  the  pageantry  of  an  afternoon  on 
le   Boulevard.  A  walk  on   Picadilly,  the   Boulevard   des   Italiens, 

r  Fifth  Avenue  would  give  me  an  irony  of  a  more  delectable  sort, 
holography  of  microscopic  slides  are  interesting.  A  cancer  has 

autiful   floral  arrangements   in  it   under  the   glass,   and   the   tracery 
tuberculosis  is   exquisite.  It  is  the  removed  sense   of  pattern 

lat  makes  their  portrayal  more  attractive.  It  all  sounds  like  a 
ur  through  the  chamber  of  horrors  of  Chicago,  and  from  its  review- 
's it  seems  to  be  little  else  than  a  smelting  furnace,  a  hog  market, 
id   a    slum.  The   picture    of   grime    is    not    enspiriting,    and    yet 

'echt  is  masculine,  and  has  hold  of  what  he  sees  at  least.  I  am 
lO  near  the  smells  of  the  alley  in  Hecht.  I  prefer  the  odours  of 

limals,  for  they  are  at  least  musky.  A  skunk  contributes  a 
ercing  and  even  fragrant  reality  to  your  evening  airs  of  summer, 
id  it  is  as  native  as  the  monotone  of  the  whip-poor-will  on  the  roof- 
ee.     I  would  welcome  the  barnyard  as  more  within  my  endurance. 

I   would  say  "heavy"  a  little  also  with   E.   P.,  after   going  from 
echt   across    to   Joyce   and    HuefTer.  These   men   have   a    touch 

jch    as    beaten    metal    shows;  Joyce    will    outlive    his    present 

ethod  if  he  has  not  already.  It  has  its  limitations  like  any  other 

ientific  formula  in  literature. 

I  should  like  to  ask  a  little  thing.  What  is  the  matter  with  the 

/■pesetters  of  the  Little  Review?  So  many  misprints  and  omis- 
onss    that   it    makes    the    reading   very   restless.  In    two    pages, 

ght    misprints    and    omissions.  Either    bad    linotype    keyboard 

ork,  or  bad  hand  work.  As  to  E.  P.'s  habitual  flaying  of  America, 

/en  those  who  understand  him  best  can  consider  repetitions  no 
lore  or  less   than   boresome   and  fatiguing.  What  with  Jepson's 

plopp-eyed  yokel",  "fat-headed  ruck",  and  E.  P.'s  critical  insistence, 


so  The    Little    Revie 


w 


we  might  be  a  lot  of  groundhogs  out  before  shadowtime.  It 
playful  but  not  true.  Mr.  Jepson  can,  if  he  has  not  already,  he 

very  respectable  English,  in  the  east  more  I  must  confess,  and  f 
enough  from  Boston  not  to  care.  Even  Boston,  among  the  bor 

of  the  world's  cities,  can  show  a  thing  or  two  for  clear  style  in  co 
versation  among  fisherman,  truckmen,  and  like  types,  or  what  ' 
might  call  the  eastern  equivalent  of  "yokel"  .  Nasal  is  surely  t: 
American    disease,    but    it    is    not    the    national    culture.  Born 

English  parents  among  the  yankees  of  Maine,  I  have  experience 
some  good  examples  of  English  among  such  as  farmers,  both  as 
diction  and  pronunciation.  I  cannot  say  much  for  the  western 

as  yet,  as  I  did  not  know  them  as  well. 

The    Henry    James    Number 

H.  W.  H.,  Canton,  Illinois: 

The  Henry  James  number  is  a  masterly  job  of  reviewing  :    flaw 
just  once  where  Mr.  Pound  pauses  to  dribble  hydrophobial  froth 
the  Anglican  blood-lust  with  which   he   is  infected. 
Mrs.  L.  K.,  Brooklyn,  New  York: 

The    Henry  James   number   is    a    great    eye-opener   to    me. 
never  knew  there  was  so  much  in  the  man.  I  recall  reading  h 

thirty  or  so  years  ago, — a  few  things  that  came  out  in  Harper's, 
believe.  I   remember  wondering  why  he  paid   so  much  attenti' 

to  things  of  little  or  no  importance.  .  Further  than  that  he  seem 
only  to  be  showing  me  intricate  patterns  that  were  difficult  to  folio 
I  have  so  much  to  learn,  you  see. 

Genesis,  or,  the  first  book  in  the  Bibh 
("Subject   to    authority") 

The  sacred  author  of  this  work  complied  with  the  ideas  accei 
able   to   his    era:      It    was    almost    neessary:    without    this    ondesce 
tion   he   would   not   have   been   understood   .     There    remain    for 
merely  a  few  reflections  on  the  physics  of  these  remote  times  . 
for  the  theology  of  the  book:  we  respect  it,  we  believe  it  most  fin 
ly,  we  would  not  risk  the  faintest  touch  to  its  surface. 

"In  the  be  beginning  God  created  heaven  and  earth".     That  is  t 


*    Translated  from   an   eighteenth-century  author. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view  51 

way  they  translate  it,  yet  there  is  scarcely  anyone  so  ignorant  as 
not  to  know  that  the  origianl  reads  "the  gods  created  heaven  and 
earth".  Which  reading  conforms  to  the  Phoenician  idea  that  God 
employed  lesser  divinities  to  untangle  chaos.  The  Phoenicians  had 
been  long  established  when  the  Hebrews  broke  into  some  few.  prov- 
inces of  their  land.  It  was  quite  natural  that  these  latter  should 
have  learned  their  language  and  borrowed  their  ideas  of  the  cosmos  . 

Did  the  ancient  Phoenecian  philosophers  in  "the  time  of  Moses" 
know  enough  to  regard  the  earth  as  a  point  in  relation  to  the  multi- 
tude of  globes  which  God  has  placed  in  imensity?  The  very  ancient 
and  false  idea  that  heaven  was  made  for  the  earth  has  nearly  always 
prevailed  among  ignorant  peoples.  It  is  rather  as  if  god  had  created 
many  mountains  and  one  grain  of  sand  :  the  mountains  would  have 
been  made  for  the  sand.  It  is  scarcely  possible  that  such  good  nav- 
igators as  the  Phoenicians  should  not  have  had  a  few  decent  as- 
tronomers, but  the  old  prejudices  were  quite  strong,  and  were  gently 
handled  by  the  author  of  Genesis,  who  wrote  to  teach  us  God's  ways 
and  not  to  instruct  us  in  physics. 

"The  earth  was  all  tohu  bohn  and  void,  darkness  was  over  the 
face  of  the  deep,  the  spirit  of  God  was  borne  on  the  waters". 

"Tohu  bohu"  means  precicely  chaos,  disorder.  The  earth  was 
not  yet  formed  as  it  is  at  present.  Matter  existed,  the  divine  power 
had  only  to  straighten  things  out.  The  "spirit  of  God"  is  literally  the 
"breath  or  "wind"  which  stirred  up  the  waters.  This  idea  is  found  in 
fragments  of  the  Phonecian  author  Sanchoniathon.  The  Phoenicians, 
like  all  the  other  peoples  of  antiquity,  believed  matter  eternal.  There 
is  not  one  author  of  all  those  times  who  ever  said  that  one  could 
make  something  of  nothing.  Even  in  the  Bible  there  is  no  passage 
which  claims  that  matter  was  made  out  of  nothing,  not  but  what 
this  creation  from  nothing  is  true,  but  its  verity  was  unknown  to  the 
carnal  Jews. 

Men  have  been  always  divided  on  the  eternity  of  the  world,  but 
never  on  the  eternity  of  matter. 

De  nihilo  nihilum,  "Gigni  et  in  nihilum  nil  posse  revert'x,"  writes 
Persius,  and  all  antiquity  shared  this  opinion.  God  said  "Let  there 
be  light,"  and  there  was  light,  and  he  saw  that  the  light  was  good, 
and  he  divided  the  light  from  darkness,  and  he  called  the  light  day 
and  the  darkness  night,  and  this  was  the  evening  and  the  morning  of 
the  first  day.    And  god  also  said  that  the  firmament,  etc.,  the  second 


52  The    Little    Review 


day  .  .  .  saw  that  it  was  good." 

Let  us  begin  by  seeing  whether  the  bishop  of  Avranches  Huet, 
Leclerc  etc.,  are  right,  against  those  who  claim  that  this  is  a  sublime 
piece  of  eloquence. 

H:         sj:         *         Hi         sj;  :;<         :J: 

The  Jewish  autlior  lumps  in  the  light  with  the  other  objects  of 
creation;  he  uses  the  same  turn  of  phrase,  "saw  that  jt  was  good". 
The  sublime  should  lift  itself  above  the  average.  Light  is  no  better 
treated  than  anything  else  in  this  passage.  It  was  another  respected 
opinion  that  light  did  not  come  from  the  sun.  Men  saw  it  spread 
through  the  air  before  sunrise  and  after  sunset;  they  thought  the  sun 
served  merely  to  reinforce  it.  The  author  of  Genesis  conforms  to 
popular  error  :  he  has  the  sun  and  moon  made  four  days  after  the 
light.  It  is  unlikely  that  there  was  a  morning  and  evening  before  the 
sun  came  into  being,  but  the  inspired  author  bows  to  the  vague  and 
stupid  prejudice  of  his  nation.  It  seems  probable  that  God  was  not  at- 
tempting to  educate  the  Jews  in  philosophy  or  cosmogeny.  He  could 
lift  their  spirits  straight  into  truth,  but  he  preferred  to  descend 
to  their  level.     One  can  not  repeat  this  answer  too  often. 

The  separation  of  the  light  from  tlie  darkness  is  not  part  of  an- 
other physical  theory;  it  seems  that  night  and  day  were  mixed  up 
like  two  kinds  of  grain,  and  that  they  were  sifted  out  of  each  other. 
It  is  sufficiently  well  established  that  darkness  is  nothing  but  the  de- 
privation of  light,  and  that  there  is  light  only  in  so  far  as  our  eyes 
receive  the  sensation,  but  no  one"  had  thought  of  this  at  that  time. 

The  idea  of  the  firmament  is  also  of  respectable  antiquity.  Peo- 
ple imagined  the  skies  very  solid,  because  the  same  set  of  things  al- 
ways happened  there.  The  skies  circulated  over  our  heads,  they  must  ' 
therefore  be  very  strong.  The  means  of  calculating  how  many  ex- 
halations of  the  earth  and  how  many  seas  would  be  needed  to  keep 
the  clouds  full  of  water?  There  was  then  no  Halley  to  write  out  the 
equations.  There  were  tanks  of  water  in  heaven.  These  tanks  were 
held  up  on  a  good  steady,  dome;  but  one  could  see  through  the  dome; 
it  must  have  been  made  out  of  crystal.  In  order  that  the  water 
could  be  poured  over  the  earth  there  had  to  be  doors,  sluices,  cata- 
racts which  could  be  opened,  turned  on  .  Such  was  the  current  as- 
tronony,  cuid  one  was  writing  for  Jews;  it  was  quite  necessary  to 
take  up  their  silly  ideas,  which  they  had  borrowed  from  other 
peoples  only  a  little  less  stupid. 


The    Little    Review  53 

"God  made  two  great  liglits,  one  to  preside  over  the  day,  the 
other  the  night,  and  he  made  also  the  stars". 

True  this  shows  the  same  continuous  ignorance  of  nature.  The 
Jews  did  not  know  that  the  moonlight  is  merely  reflection.  The 
author  speaks  of  the  stars  as  luminous  points,  which  they  look  like, 
althougli  they  are  at  times  suns  with  planets  swinging  about  them. 
But  holy  spirit  harmonized  with  the  mind  of  the  time.  If  he  had 
said  that  the  sun  is  a  million  times  as  large  as  the  earth,  and  the 
moon  lifty  times  smaller,  no  one  would  have  understood  him.  They 
appear  to  be  two  stars  of  sizes  not  very  unequal. 

■'God  said  also:  let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  let  him  rule  over 
the  fishes    etc." 

What  did  the  Jews  mean  by  "'in  our  image"?  They  meant,  like 
all   antiquity.  s> 

I-iii.vit  ill  cffit/iciii  iiiodcraiitiiin  ciincfa  dcorum.  One  can  not 
make  "images"  save  of  bodies.  No  nation  imagined  a  bodiless  god, 
and  it  is  impossible  to  picture  him  as  such  .  One  might  indeed  say 
"god  is  nothing  of  anything  we  know",  but  then  one  would  not  have 
any  idea  what  he  is.  The  Jews  constantly  believed  god  corporal,  as 
did  all  the  rest  of  the  nations.  All  the  first  fathers  of  the  church 
also  believed  god  corporal,  until  they  had  swallowed  Plato's  ideas,  or 
rather  until  the  lights  of  Christianity  had  grown  purer. 

"He  created  them  male  and  female". 
If  God  or  the  secondary  gods  created  man  male  and  female  in  their 
resemblance,  it  w'ould  seem  that  the  Jews  believed  God  and  the  Gods 
were    male    and    female.      One    searches    to    see    whether    the    author 
meant  to  say  that  man  was  at  the  start  ambisextrous    or  if  he  means 
that  God  made  Adam  and  Eve  the  same  day.     The  most  natural  in- 
terpretation would   be  that   god  made  Adam   and   Eve  at   the   same 
time,  but  this  Is  absolutely  contradicted  by  the  formation  of  woman 
from  the  rib,  a  long  time  after  the  first  seven  days. 
"And  he  rested  the  seventh  day". 
The    Phoenicians,    Caldeans,    and    Indians    say    that    God    made    the 
world  in   six  periods,  which   Zoroaster  calls   the   six   gahambars,   so 
celebrated  among  Persians. 

It  is  incontestable  that  all  these  people  had  a  theogeny  long  be- 
fore the  Jews  got  to  Horeb  and  Sinai,  and  before  they  could  have 
had  writers.  Several  savants  think  it  likely  that  the  allegory  of  the 
isix  days   is   imitated   from   the   six   periods.      God   might   have   permit- 


54  The    Little    Review 

ted  great  nations  to  have  this  idea  before  he  inspired  the  Jews,  just 
as  he  had  permitted  other  people  to  discover  the  arts  before  the  Jews 
had  attained  any. 

"The  place  of  delight  shall  be  a  river  which  waters  a  garden, 
and  from  it  shall  flow  four  rivers,  Phison  ....  Gehon  ....  etc.  Ti- 
gris, Euphrates  .  .  .  .  " 

According  to  this  version  the  terrestrial  paradise  would  have 
contained  about  a  third  of  Asia  and  Africa.  The  Euphrates  and  Ti- 
gris have  their  sources  sixty  miles  apart  in  hideous  mountains  which 
do  not  look  the  lleast  like  a  garden. The  river  which  borders  Ethiopia  can 
be  only  the  Nile,  whose  source  is  a  little  over  a  thousand  miles  from 
those  of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates;  and  if  Phison  is  the  Phase,  it 
is  curious  to  start  a  Scythian  river  from  the  fount  of  a  river  of  Af- 
rica. One  must  look  further  afield  for  the  meaning  of  all  these  riv- 
ers.    Every  commentator  makes  his  own  Eden. 

Some  one  has  said  that  the  Garden  was  like  the  gardens  of  Eden 
at  Saana  in  Arabia  Felix  celebrated  in  antiquity,  and  that  the  par- 
venu Hebrews  might  have  been  an  Arab  tribe  taking  to  themselves 
credit  for  the  prettiest  thing  in  the  best  canton  of  Arabia,  as  they 
have  always  taken  to  themeselves  the  tradition  of  all  the  great  peo- 
ples who  enslaved  them.     But  in  any  case  they  were  led  by  the  Lord. 

"The  Lord  took  man  and  set  him  in  the  midst  of  the  garden,  to 
tend  it."  It  is  all  very  well  saying  "tend  it",  "cultivate  the  garden", 
but  it  would  have  been  very  difficult  for  Adam  to  cultivate  a  garden 
3000  miles  long.  Perhaps  he  had  helpers.  It  is  another  chance  for 
the  commentators  to  exercise  their  gifts  of  divination.  ...  as  they 
do  with  the  rivers. 

"Eat  not  of  the  fruit  of  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil".  It  is 
difficult  to  think  that  there  was  a  tree  which  taught  good  and  evil; 
as  there  are  pear  trees  and  peach  trees.  One  asks  why  God  did  not 
wish  man  to  know  good  from  evil.  Would  not  the  opposite  wish 
(if  one  dare  say  so)  appears  more  worthy  of  God,  and  much  more 
needful  to  man?  It  seems  to  our  poor  reason  that  God  might  have 
ordered  him  to  eat  a  good  deal  of  this  fruit,  but  one  must  submit 
one's  reason  and  conclude  that  obedience  to  God  is  the  proper  course 
for  us. 

"  If  you  eat  of  the  fruit  you  shall  die". 
Yet  Adam  ate,  and  did  not  die  in  the  least;  they  say  he  lived  another 
nine  centuries.     Several  "Fathers"  have  considered  all  this  as  an  allc- 


The    Little    Review  55 

ry.  Indeed  one  may  say  that  other  animals  do  not  know  that  they 
,  but  that  man  knows  it  through  his  reason.  This  reason  is  the 
e  of  knowledge  which  makes  him  foresee  his  finish.  This  explan- 
on  may  be  more  reasonable,  but  we  do  not  dare  to  pronounce  on  it. 

"The  Lord  said  also:     It  is  not  good  that  man  should  be  alone, 

us  make  him  an  helpmate  like  to  him."  One  expects  that  the 
rd  is  going  to  give  him  a  woman,  but  first  he  brings  up  all  the 
ists.     This  may  be  the  transposition  cl  some  copyist. 

"And  the  name  which  Adam  gave  to  each  animal  is  its  real 
ne.''     An  animal's  real  name  would  be   one  which  designated  all, 

qualifications  of  its  species,  or  at  least  the  principal  traits,  but 
5  does  not  exist  in  any  language.  There  are  certain  imitative 
rds,  cock  and  cuckoo,  and  alali  in  greek,  etc.     Morever  if  Adam 

1  known  the  real  names  and  therefore  the  properties  of  the  ani- 
ls, he  must  have  already  eaten  of  the  tree  of  knowledge;  or  else 
vould  seem  that  God  need  not  have  forbidden  him  the  tree,  since 
already  knew  more  than  the  Royal  Society,  or  the  Academy. 

(Observe  that  this  is  the  first  time  Adam  is  named  in  Genesis. 

2  first  man  according  to  the  Brahmins  was  Adimo,  son  of  the 
th  .  Adam  and  Eve  mean  the  same  thing  in  Phoenician,  another 
ication  that  the  holy  spirit  fell  in  with  the  received  ideas. 

"When  Adam  was  asleep  etc.  .  .  .  rib  .  .  .  made  a  woman."     The 

d,  in  the  preceding  chapter,  had  already  created  them  male  and 
lale;  why  should  he  take  a  rib  out  of  the  man  to  make  a  woman 
;ady  existing?  We  are  told  that  the  author  announces  in  one 
:e  what  he  explains  in  another.  We  are  told  that  this  allegory 
ws  woman  submitted  to  her  husband.  Many  people  have  believed 
the  strength  of  these  verses  that  men  have  one  rib  less  than  wo- 
1,  but  this  is  an  heresy  (vide  Heresy,  later)'  and  anatomy  shows 
that  a  woman  is  no  better  provided  with  ribs  than  her  husband. 

"Now  the  serpent  was  the  most  subtle  of  beasts,"  etc.,  "  he  said 
he  woman"  etc. 

There  is  nowhere  the  least  mention  of  the  devil  or  a  devil.  All 
ihysical.  The  serpent  was  considered  not  only  the  subtlest  of  all 
sts  by  all  oriental  nations;  he  was  also  believed  immortal.     The 

Ideans  had  a  fable  about  a  fight  between  god  and  a  serpent;  it  is 
served  by  Pherecides.     Origen  cites  it  in  his  sixth  book  against 

us.  They  carried  snakes  in  the  feasts  of  Bacchus.  The  Egypt- 
■  i  attributed  a  sort  of  divinity  to  the  serpent,  as  Eusebius  tells  us 


56  The    Little    Review 


in  his  "Evangelical  Preparations",  book  I.,  chapter  X.  In  India  at 
Arabia,  and  in  China,  the  serpent  was  the  symbol  of  life;  the  Chinei 
emperors  before  Moses  wore  the  serpent  sign  on  their  breasts. 

Eve  is  not  surprised  at  the  serpent's  talking  to  her.  Animals  a 
always  talking  in  the  old  stories;  thus  when  Pilpai  and  Locman  mal 
animals  talk  no  one  is  ever  surprised. 

All  this  tale  seems  physical  and  denuded  of  allegory  ,  It  ev« 
tells  us  the  reason  why  the  serpent  who  ramped  before  this  no 
crawls  on  its  belly,  and  why  we  always  try  to  destroy  it  (at  least  : 
they  say);  precisely  as  we  are  told  in  all  ancient  metamorphoses  wl 
the  crow,  who  was-  white,  is'  now  black,  why  the  owl  stays  at  hon 
in  the  day  time,  etc.  But  the  "Fathers"  have  believed  it  an  allege 
manifest  and  respectable,  and  it  is  safest  to  believe  them. 

"I  will  multiply  your  griefs  and;  your  pregnencies,  ye  shall  brii 
forth  children  with  grief,  ye  shall  be  beneath  the  power  of  the  mi 
and  he  shall  rule  over  you."  One  asks  why  the  multiplication 
pregnencies  is  a  punishment?  It  was  on  the  contrary  a  very  gre 
blessing,  and  especially  for  the-  Jews.  The  pains  of  childbirth  a 
alarming  only  for  delicate  women,  those  accustomed  to  work  a 
brought  to  bed  very  easily,  especially  in  hot  climates.  On  the  oth 
hand  animals  sometimes  suffer  in  littering  and  even  die  of  it.  i 
for  the  superiority  of  man  over  woman  this  is  the  quite  natural  rest 
of  his  bodily  and  intellectual  forces.  The  male  organs  are  general 
more  capable  of  consecutive  efifort,  more  fit  for  manual  and  intellt 
tual  tasks.  But  when  the  woman  has  fist  or  wit  stronger  than  the 
of  her  husband  she  rules  the  roost,  and  the  man  is  submitted 
woman-  This  is  true,  but  before  the  original  sin  there  may  have  be 
neither  pain  nor  submission. 

■'God  made  them  tunics  of  skin". 
This  passage  proves  very  nicely  that  the  Jews  believed  in  a  c< 
poral  god.  A  Rabbi  named  Eliezer  has  written  that  God  cover 
Adam  and  Eve  with  the  skin  of  the  tempter  serpent;  Origen  claii 
that  the  "tunic  of  skin"  was  a  new  flesh,  a  new  body  which  god  ma 
for  man,  but  one  should  have  more  respect  for  the  text. 

".And  the   Lord  said  'Behold  Adam,   who  is  become,  like   one 
us'  ".    It  seems  that  the  Jews  at  first  admired  several  gods.     It  is  co 
siderably  more  difficult  to  make  out  what  they  mean  by  the  wo 
God,   Eloim.     Several   commentators   state   that   this   phrase   "one 
us"     means     the     Trinity,     but     there     is     no     question     of     t' 


The    Little    Review  57 

Trinity  in  the  Bible.  * 

The  Trinity  is  a  composed  of  several  gods,  it  is  also  a  triple  god; 
the  Jews  never  heard  tell  of  a  god  in  three  persons.  By  these  words 
"like  unto  us"  it  is  probable  that  the  Jews  meant  angels,  Eloim.  For 
this  reason  various  rash  men  of  learning  have  thought  that  the  book 
was  not  written  until  a  time  when  the  jews  had  adopted  a  belief  in 
inferior  gods,  but  this  view  is  condemned.'^ 

"The  Lord  set  him  outside  the  garden  of  delights,  that  he  might 
dig  in  the  earth."  Yet  some  say  that  god  had  put  him  in  the  garden, 
in  order  that  he  might  cultivate  if.  If  gardener  Adam  merely  be-. 
came  labourer  Adam,  he  was  not  so  much  the  worse  off.  This  solu- 
tion of  the  difficulty  does  not  seem  to  us  sufficiently  serious.  It 
would  be  better  to  say  that  God  punished  Adam's  disobedience  by 
banishing  him  from  his  birthplace. 

Certain  over-temerious  commentators  say  that  the  whole  of 
the  story  refers  to  an  idea  once  common  to  all  men,  (i.e.)  that  past 
times  were  better  than  present.  People  have  always  bragged  of  the 
past  in  order  to  run  down  the  present.  Men  overburdened  with  work 
have  imagined  that  pleasure  is  idleness,  not  having  had  wit  enough 
to  conceive  that  man  is  never  worse  of?  that  when  he  has  nothing  to 
do.  Men  seeing  themselves  not  infrequently  miserable  forged  an 
idea  of  a  time  when  all  men  were  happy.  It  is  as  if  they  had  said, 
once  upon  a  time  no  tree  withered,  no  beast  fell  sick,  no  animal  de- 
voured another,  the  spiders  did  not  catch  flies.  Hence  the  ideal  of 
the  Golden  Age,  of  the  egg  of  Arimana,  of  the  serpent  who  stole  the 
secret  of  eternal  life  from  the  donkey,  of  Uie  coinbat  of  Typhon  and 
Osiris,  of  Ophionee  and  the  gods,  of  Pandora's  casket,  and  all  these 
other  old  stories,  sometime  very  ingenious  and  never,  in  the  least 
way,  instructive.  But  we  should  believe  tliat  the  fables  of  other  na- 
tions are  imitation  of  Hebrew  history,  since  we  still  have  the  Hebrew 
history  and  the  history  of  other  savage  peoples  is  for  the  most  part 
destroyed.  Moreover  the  witnesses  in  favour  of  Genesis  are  quite 
irrefutable. 


*  The  reader  ivill  reineinber  in  Landor's  Chinese  dialogues,  when 
the  returned  mandarin  is  telling  the  Emperor's  cliildren  about  England, 
there  is  one  place  where  they  burst  into  giggles  "because  they  had  been 
taught  some  arithmetic.'' 

*  The  reader  is  referred  to  our  heading'-.  "Subject  to  authority". 


5^  T  he    Lit  tie    Re  vi  e.w 


"And  he  set  Before  the  garden  of  delight  a  cherubin  with  a 
turning  and  flaming  sword  to  keep  guard  over  the  gateway  to  th< 
tree  of  life."  The  word'  'kerub"  means  bullock.  A  bullock  with  s 
burning  sword  is  an  odd  sight  at  a  doorway.  But  the  Jews  have 
represented  angels  as  bulls  and  as  sparrow  hawks,  despite  the  pro- 
hibition to  make  graven  images.  Obviously  they  got  these  bulls  anc 
hawks  from  Egyptians  who  imitated  all  sorts  of  things,  and  whc 
worshipped  the  bull  as  the  symbol  of  agriculture  and  the  hawk  a« 
the  symbol  of  winds.  Probably  the  tale  is  an  allegory,  a  Jewish  al. 
legory,  the  kerub  means  "nature".  A  symbol  made  of  a  bull's  head 
a  man's  head  and  the  hawk's  wings. 

"The  Lord  put  his  mark  upon  Cain." 
"What  a  Lord!"  say  the  incredulous.  He  accepts  Abel's  offering,  re- 
jects that  of  the  elder  brother,  without  giving  any  trace  of  a  reason 
The  Lord  provided  the  cause  of  the  first  brotherly  enmity.  This  i< 
a  moral  instruction,  most  truly,  a  lesson  to  be  learned  from  all  an- 
cient fables,  to  wit,  that  scarcely  had  the  race  come  into  existence 
before  one  brother  assassinated  another,  but  what  appears  to  the  wise 
of  this  world,  contrary  to  all  justice,  contrary  to  all  the  commor 
sense  principles,  is  that  God  has  eternally  damned  the  whole  humar 
race,  and  has  slaughtered  his  own  son,  quite  uselessly,  for  an  apple 
and  that  he  has  pardoned  a  fraticide.  Did  I  say  "pardoned"?  He 
takes  the  criminal  under  his  own  protection.  He  declares  that  any 
one  who  avenges  the  murder  of  Abel  shall  be  punished  with  sevei 
fold  the  punishment  inflicted  on  Cain.  He  puts  on  him  his  sign  as  ; 
safeguard.  The  impious  call  the  story  both  execrable  and  absurd 
It  is  the  delirium  of  some  unfortunate  Israelite,  who  wrote  these  in 
ept  infamies  in  imitation  of  stories  so  abundant  among  the  neigh 
boring  Syrians.  This  insensate  Hebrew  attributed  his  atrocious  in 
vention  to  Moses,  at  a  time  when  nothing  was  rarer  than  books 
Destiny  which  disposes  of  all  things  has  preserved  his  work  till  oui 
day;  scoundrels  have  praised  it,  and  idiots  have  believed.  Thus  saj 
the  horde  of  tkeists,  who  while  adoring  god,  have  been  so  rash  as  tc 
condemn  the  Lord  God  of  Israel,  and  who  judge  the  actions  of  the 
Eternl  Being  by  the  rules  of  our  imperfect  ethics,  and  our  erroneouj 
justice.  They  admit  a  god  but  submit  god  to  our  laws.  Let  us 
guard  against  such  temerity,  and  let  iis  once  again  learn  to  respecl 
what  lies  beyond  our  comprehension.  Let  us  cry  out  "O  Altitude!' 
with  all  our  strength. 


The    Little    Review  59 

"The  Gods,  Elolm,  seeing  that  the  daughters  of  men  were  fair, 
took  for  spouses  those  whom  they  choose."  This  flight  of  imagina- 
tion is  also  common  to  all  the  nations.  There  is  no  race,  except 
perhaps  the  Chinese,  which  has  not  recorded  gods  getting  young 
jirls  with  child.  Corporeal  gods  come  down  to  look  at  their  domain, 
they  see  our  young  ladies  and  take  the  best  for  themselves;  chil- 
dren produced  in  this  way  are  better  than  other  folks'  children;  thus 
Genesis  does  not  omit  to  say  that  this  commerce  bred  giants.  Once 
again  the  book  is  key  with  vulgar  opinion. 

"And  I  will  pour  the  water  floods  over  the  earth." 
r  would  note  here  that  St.  Augustin  (City  of  God,  no.  8.)  says 
'Maximum  illud  diluvium  graeca  nee  latina  novit  historia".  Neither 
Greek  nor  Latin  history  takes  note  of  this  very  great  flood.  In  truth 
they  knew  only  Deucalion's  and  Ogyges'  in  Greece.  These  were 
regarded  as  universal  in  the  fables  collected  by  Ovid,  but  were  to- 
tally unknown  in  Eastern  Asia.  .St.  Augustin  is  not  in  error  when 
he  says  history  makes  no  mention  thereof. 

'"God  said  to  Noah:  I  will  make  an  agreement  with  you  and  witli 
your  seed  after  you,  and  with  all  the  animals."  God  make  an  agree- 
ment with  animals!  The  unbelievers  will  exclaim:  "What  a  con- 
tract!" But  if  he  make  an  alliance  with  man,  why  not  with  the  ani- 
mals? What  nice  feeling,  there  is  something  quite  as  divine  in  this 
sentiment  as  in  the  most  metaphysical  thought.  Moreover  animals 
feel  better  than  most  men  think.  It  is  apparently  in  virtue  of  this 
agreement  that  St.  Francis  of  Assisi,  the  founder  of  the  seraphic 
order,  said  to  the  grasshoppers,  and  hares,  "Sing,  sister  hopper- 
grass,  brouse  brother  rabbit."  But  what  were  the  terms  of  the  treaty? 
That  all  the  animals  should  devour  each  other;  that  they  should  live 
on  our  flesh;  and  we  on  theirs;  that  after  having  eaten  all  we  can 
we  should  exterminate  all  the  rest,  and  that  we  should  only  omit  the 
devouring  of  men  strangled  with  our  own  hands.  If  there  was  any 
such  pact  it  was  persumably  made  with  the  devil. 

Probably  this  passage  is  only  intended  to  show  that  god  is  in 
equal  degree  master  of  all  things  that  breathe.  This  pact  could  only 
have  been  a  command;  it  is  called  "alliance"  merely  by  an  "extention 
•jf  the  word's  meaning."  One  should  not  quibble  over  mere  termin- 
•jlogy,  but  worship  the  spirit,  and  go  back  to  the  time  when  they 
wrote  this  work  which  is  scandal  to  the  the  weak,  but  quite  edifying 
to  the  strong. 


b 


6o  The    Little    Review 

"And  I  will  put  my  bow  in  the  sky,  and  it  shall  be  a  sign  of  oi 
pact."  Note  that  the  author  does  not  say  "I  have  put"  but  "I  w 
put  my  bow",  this  shows  that  in  common  opinion  the  bow  had  n 
ulways  existed.  It  is  a  phenomenon  of  necessity  caused  by  the  rai 
and  they  give  it  as  a  supernatural  manifestation  that  the  world  sh; 
never  more  be  covered  with  water.  It  is  odd  that  they  should  choc 
a  sign  of  rain  as  a  promise  that  one  shall  not  be  drowned.  But  o 
may  reply  to  this:  when  in  danger  of  inundations  we  may  be  rea 
sured  by  seeing  a  rainbow. 

"Now  the  Lord  went  down  to  see  the  city  which  the  children 
Adam  had  builded,  and  he  said,  behold  a  people  with  only  one  spee< 
They  have  begun  this  and  won't  quit  until  it  is  finished.  Let  us  i 
down  and  confound  their  language,  so  that  no  man  may  understa: 
his  neighbor".  Note  merely  that  the  sacred  author  still  conforms 
vulgar  opinion.  He  always  speaks  of  God  as  of  a  man  who  infori 
himself  of  what  is  going  on,  who  wants  to  see  with  his  eyes  what 
being  done  on  his  estate,  and  who  calls  his  people  together  to  det< 
mine  a  course  of  action. 

"And  Abraham;  having  arrayed  his  people  (they  were  of  t 
318),  fell  upon  the  five  kings  and  slew  them  and  pursued  them  ev 
to  Hoba  on  the  left  side  of  Damas."  From  the  south  side  of  the  la 
of  Sodom  to  Damas  is  24  leagues,  and  they  still  had  to  cross  Lib 
and  anti-Liban.  .  Unbelievers  exult  over  such  tremendous  exa 
geration.  But  since  the  Lord  favouied  Abraham  there  is 
exaggeration. 

"And  that  evening  two  angels  came  into  Sodom,  etc."  The  h 
tory  of  the  two  angels  whom  the  Sodomites  wanted  to  ravish  is  p 
haps  the  most  extraordinary  which  antiquiyt  has  produced.  But  we  mi 
remember  that  all  Asia  believed  in  incubi  and  succubae  demons,  a 
that  moreover  these  angels  were  creatures  more  perfect  than  m: 
and  tliat  they  were  probably  much  better  looking,  and  lit  more  c 
sires  in  a  jaded,  corrupt  race  than  common  men  would  have  exciti 
Perhaps  this  part  of  the  story  is  only  a  fign^re  of  rhetoric  to  exprt 
the  horrible  lewdness  of  Sodom  and  of  Gomorrah.  We  ofifer  this  so! 
tion  to  savants  with  the  most  profound  self-mistrust. 

As  for  Lot  Avho  offered  his  two  daughters  to  the  Sodomites 
lieu   of   the   angels,   and    Lot's   wife   metamorphosed   into   the   sali 
image,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  story,  what  can  one  say  of  it?     T 
ancient  fable  of  Cinyra  and  Myrrha  has  some  relation  to  Lot's  i 


The    Little    Review  61 

t  with  his  daughters,  the  adventure  of  Philemon  and  Baucis  is  not 
thout  its  points  of  comparison  with  that  of  the  two  angels  appear- 
;  to  Lot  and  his  wife.  As  for  he  pillar  of  salt,  I  do  not  know  what 
:ompares  with,  perhaps  with  the  story  of  Orpheus  and  Eurydice? 
^  number  of  savants  think  with  Newton  and  the  learned  Leclerc 
the  Pentateuch  was  written  by  Samuel  when  the  Jews  had 
rned  reading  and  writing,  and  that  all  these  tales  are  imitation 
Syrian  fable. 

But  is  sufficient  for  us  that  it  is  all  Holy  Scripture;  we  therefore 
^ere  it  without  searching  in  it  for  anything  that  is  not  the  work 
'the  Holy  Spirit.  We  should  remember,  at  all  times,  that  these 
les  are  not  our  times,  and  we  should  not  fail  to  add  our  word  to 
,t  of  so  many  great  men  who  have  declared  that  the  old  testa- 
nt  is  true  history,  and  that  everything  invented  by  all  the  rest  of 

universe  is  mere  fable. 

Some  savants  have  pretended  that  one  should  remove  from  the 
lonical  books  all  incredible  matters  which  might  be  a  stumbling 
ck  to  the  feeble,  but  it  is  said  that  these  savants  were  men  of 
rupt  heart  and  that  they  ought  to  be  burned,  and  that  it  is  im- 
isible  to  be  an  honest  man  unless  you  believe  .that  the  Sodomites 
ired  to  ravish  the  angels.  This  is  the  reasoning  of  a  species  of 
nster  who  wishes  to  rule  over  wits. 

It  is  true  that  several  celebrated  church  fathers  have  had  the 
idence  to  turn  all  these  tales  into  allegory,  like  the  Jews,  and 
ilo  in  especial.  Popes  still  more  prudent  desired  to  prevent  the 
nslation  of  these  books  into  the  everyday  tongue,  for  fear  men 
luld  be  led  to  pass  judgment  on  what  was  upheld  for  their 
►ration. 

One  ought  surely  to  conclude  that  those  who  perfectly  under- 
tid  this  work  should  tolerate  those  who  do  not  understand  it,  for 
hese  latter  do  not  understand  it,  it  is  not  their  fault;  also  those 
0  do  not  understand  it  should  tolerate  those  who  understand  it 
st  fully. 

Savants,  too  full  of  their  knowledge,  have  claimed  that  Moses 
lid  not  possibly  have  written  the  book  of  Genesis.  One  of  their 
sons    is     that    in    the    story    of    Abraham,    the    patriarch    pays 

his  wife's  funeral  plot  in  coined  money,  and  that  the 
g  of  Gerafe  gives  a  thousand  pieces  of  silver  to  Sarah  when  he 
urns  her,  after  having  stolen  her  for  her  beauty  in  the  seventy-fifth 


62  T  ht  Lit  tie   Re  view 


year  of  her  age.  They  say  that  having  consulted  authoritits  they  find 
that  there  was  no  coined  money  in  those  days.  But  it  is  quite  clear  thai 
this  is  pure  chicane  on  their  part,  since  the  Church  has  always  be- 
lieved most  firmly  that  Moses  did  write  the  Pentateuch.  Thej 
strengthen  all  the  doubts  raised  by  the  disciples  of  Aben-Hesra  ant 
Baruch  Spinoza.  The  physician  Astruc,  father-in-law  of  the  comp 
troUer-general  Silhouette,  in  his  book,  now  very  rare,  entitled  "Con 
jectures  on  Genesis",  adds  new  objections,  unsolvable  to  human  wis 
dom;  but  not  to  humble  submissive  piety.  The  savants  dare  to  con 
tradict  every  line,  the  simple  revere  every  line.  Guard  against  fallinf 
into  the  misfortune  of  trusting  our  human  reason,  be  contrite  ii 
heart  and  in  spirit. 

"And  Abraham  said  that  Sarah  was  his  sister,  and  the  king  o 
Gerare  took  her  to  him."  We  confess,  as  we  have  said  in  our  essay  oi 
Abraham,  that  Sarah  was  then  ninety  years  old;  that  she  had  alread; 
been  kidnapped  by  one  King  of  Egypt;  and  that  a  king  of  this  sam 
desert  Gerare  later  kidnapped  the  wife  of  Abraham's  son  Isaac.  W 
have  also  spoken  of  the  servant  Agar,  by  whom  Abraham  had  a  sor 
and  of  how  Abraham  treated  them  both.  One  knows  what  delight  un 
believers  take  in  these  stories;  with  what  supercilious  smiles  the; 
consider  them;  how  they  set  the  story  of  Abimelech  and  this  sam 
wife  of  Abraham's  (Sarah)  whom  he  passed  off  as  his  sister,  abov 
the  "looi  nights"  and  also  that  of  another  Abimelech  in  love  wit 
Rebecca,  whom  Isaac  also  passed  off  ais  his  sister.  One  can  not  ofte 
reiterate  that  the  fault  of  all  these  studious  critics  lies  in  their  pel 
sistent  endeavour  to  bring  all  these  things  into  accord  with  oi: 
feeble  reason  and  to  judge  ancient  Arabs  as  they  would  judge  th 
French  court  or  the  English. 

"The  soul  of  Sichem,  son  of  King  Hemor,  cleaved  to  the  sot 
of  Dinah,  and  he  charmed  his  sadness  with  her  tender  caresses,  an 
he  went  to  Hemor  his  father,  and  said  unto  him:  Give  methiiswoma 
for  wife."  Here  the  savants  are  even  more  refractory.  What! 
king's  son  marry  a  vagabond's  daughter,  Jacob  her  father  loade 
with  presents!  The  king  receives  into  his  city  these  wanderin 
robbers,,  called  patriarchs;  he  has  the  incredible  and  incomprehens 
ble  kindness  to  get  himself  circumcised,  he  and  his  son,  his  coui 
and  his  people,  in  order  to  condescend  to  the  superstition  of  thi 
little  tribe  which  did  not  own  a  half  league  of  land!  And  what  r« 
ward  do   our  holy  patriarchs   make  him  for  such   astonishing  kinc 


T he    Lit  tl e    Review  63 


ess?  They  wait  the  day  when  the  wound  of  circumcision  ordinarilly 
reduces  a  fever.  Then  Simeon  and  Levi  run  throughout  the  city, 
aggers  in  hand;  they  massacre  the  king,  the  prince,  his  son,  and  all 
le  inhabitants.  The  horror  of  this  St.  Bartholemew  is  only  dimin- 
;Iied  by  its  impossibility.  It  is  a  shocking  romance  but  it  is  ob- 
iously  a  ridiculous  romance:  It  is  impossible  that  two  men  could 
ave  killed  a  whole  nation.  One  might  suffer  some  inconvenience 
cm  one's  excerpted  foreskin,  but  one  would  defend  oneself  against 
vo  scoundrels,  one  would  assemble,  surround  them,  finish  them 
ff  as  they  deserved. 

But  there  is  one  more  impossible  statement  :  by  an  extract  sup- 

tation  of  date,  we  find  that  Dinah,  daughter  of  Jacob,  vras  at  this 

lie  no  more  than  three  years  of  age;  even  if  one  tries  to  accomo- 
ate  the  chronology,  she  could  not  have  been  more  than  five  :  it  is 
lis  that  causes  complaint.  People  say:  "What  sort  of  a  book  is 
lis?  The  book  of  a  reprobate  people,  a  book  for  so  long  unknown 
>  all  the  earth,  a  book  where  right,  reason  and  decent  custom  are 
.itraged  on  every  page,  and  which  we  have  presented  us  as  irrefu- 

ble,  holy,  dictated  by  God  himself?  Is  it  not  an  impiety  to  be- 
;ve  it?  Is  it  not  the  dementia  of  cannibals  to  persecute  sensible, 
odest  men  who  do  not  believe  it? 

To  which  we  reply:  The  Church  says  she  believes  it.  Copyists 
ay  have  introduced  revolting  absurdities  into  reverend  stories, 
nly  the  Holy  Church  can  be  judge  of  such  matters.  The  profane 
lould  be  led  by  her  wisdom.  These  absurdities,  these  pretended 
Drrors  do  not  affect  the  basis  of  our  religion.  Where  would  men 
!  if  the  cult  of  virtue  depended  on  what  happened  long  ago  to 
chem  and  little  Dinah? 

"Behold  the  Kings  who  reigned  in  the  land  of  Edom,  before  the 
lildren  of  Israel  had  a  king." 

Behold  another  famous  passage,  another  stone  which  doth  hin- 
T  our  feet.  It  is  this  passage  which  determined  the  great  Newton, 
e  pious  and  sage  Samuel  Clarke,  the  deeply  philosophical  BoHng- 
oke,  the  learned  Lecrere,  the  savant  Freret.  and  a  great  number  of 
her  scholars  to  argue  that  Moses  could  not  -have  been  the  author 

Genesis. 

_  We  do  indeed  confess  that  these  words  could  only  have  been 
ritten  at  a  time  when  the  Jews  had  kings. 

It   is   chiefly  this   verse   which   determined   Astruc    to   upset   the 


64  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

whole  book  of  Genesis,  and  to  hypothecate  memories  on  which  the 
real  author  had  drawn.  His  work  is  ingenious,  exact,  but  rash.  A 
council  would  scarcely  have  dared  to  undertake  it.  And  to  what  end 
has  it  served,  this  ungrateful,  dangerous  work  of  this  Astruc?  To 
redouble  the  darkness  which  he  set  out  to  enlighten.  This  is  ever 
the  fruit  of  that  tree  of  knowledge  w\iereof  we  all  wish  to  eat.  Why 
should  it  be  necessary  that  the  fruits  of  the  tree  of  ignorance  should 
be  more  nourishing  and  more  easy  to, manage? 

But  what  matter  to  us,  after  all,  whether  this  verse,  or  this  chap- 
ter, was  written  by  Moses,  or  by  Samuel  or  by  the  priest  from  Samaria, 
or  by  Esdras,  or  by  anyone  else?  In  what  way  can  our  government,  our 
laws,  our  fortunes,  our  morals,  our  well  being,  be  tied  up  with  the 
ignorant  chiefs  of  an  unfortunate  barbarous  country,  called  Edom  or 
Idumea,  always  peopled  by  thieves?  Alas,  these  poor  shirtless  Arabs 
know  nothing  of  our  existence,  they  pillage  caravans  and  eat  barley 
bread,  and  we  torment  ourselves  trying  to  find  out  whether  there 
were  kinglets  in  one  canton  of  Arabia  Petra  before  they  appeared  in 
the  neighboring  canton  to  the  west  of  lake  Sodom. 

O  miseras  hominium  meiites!     O  pectora  caeca! 


"Ulysses" 

James  Joyce's  "Ulysses"  will  be  continued  in  the  next  number. 


A    Christmas    Present 
to    Subscribers 

We  are  making  a  special  rate  of  $2.00  to  all  stibscribers  renew- 
ing before  January  i,  1919. 


0aaauSrljaniSii 


THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF   PIANOS 


313    FIFTH   AVENUE 
NEW   YORK 


STATEMENT     OF     OWNERSHIP,     MANAGEMENT,     CIRCULATION,     ETC., 

REQUIRED    BY    THE    ACT    OF    CONGRESS,    OF    AUGUST   24,    1912. 
OF     THE     LITTLE     REVIEW,     published    monthly     at    New    York,    N.    Y.,    for 

October    1,    1918 

?taie  of  Xew  York,  County  of  New  York — ss. 

Before  me,  a  Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  and  county  aforesaid,  personally 
appeared  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  who,  having  been  duly  sworn  according  to  law, 
deposes  and  says  that  she  is  the  Publisher,  Editor,  Owner,  Business  Manager 
of  THE  LITTLE  REVIEW,  and  that  the  following  is,  to  the  best  of  her  know- 
ledge and  belief,  a  true  statement  of  the  ownership,  management  (and  if  a  daily 
paper,  the  circulation),  etc.,  of  i-.e  aforesaid  publication  for  the  date  shown  in  the 
above  caption,  required  by  the  Act  of  August  24,  1912,  embodied  in  section  443, 
Postal  Laws  and   Regulations,   printed  on   the  reverse   of  this  form ;   to  wit : 

1.  That  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and 
business    managers    are : 

Publisher,  Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Editor, 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Managing  Editor 
Margaret  C.  Anderson,  24  W.  Sixteenth  St.,  New  York;  Business  Manager, 
Margaret    C.    Anderson,   24    W.    Sixteenth    St.,    New    York. 

2.  That   the    owner   is,    Margaret   C.    Anderson. 

3.  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other  security  holders  owning 
or  holding  1  per  cent,  or  more  of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or  other 
securities    are :    None. 

4.  That  the  twp  paragraphs  next  above,  giving  the  names  of  owners,  stock- 
holders, and  security  holders,  if  any,  contain  not  only  the  list  of  stockholders 
and  security  holders  as  they  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  but  also,  in 
cases  where  the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appear  upon  the  books  of  the 
company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  relation,  the  name  of  the  person  or 
corporation  for  whom  such  trustee  is  acting,  is  given ;  also  that  the  said  two 
paragraphs  contain  statements  embracing  affiant's  full  knowledge  and  belief  as  to 
the  circumstances  and  conditions  under  which  stockholders  and  security  holders 
who  do  not  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustees,  hold  stock  and 
securities  in  a  capacity  other  than  that  of  a  bona  fide  owner;  and  this  affiant 
has  no  reason  to  believe  that  any  other  person,  association,  or  corporation,  has 
any  interest  direct  or  indirect  in  the  said  stock,  bonds,  or  other  securities  than 
as    so   stated    by   her.  MARGARET   C.  ANDERSON. 

Sworn  to  and  subscribed  before  me  this  30th  day  of    September,  1918 

M.   RABINOWITZ,  Notary  Public 
(My    commission   expires   March    30,    1919) 


The  December  will  be  an  American  number. 

A  Noh  play,  "I1ie  Song  of  the  Dreaming  Bones",  by 
William  Butler  Yeats,  will  appear  in  the  January  number. 


No  OiliGr  TypGwriter 
CaoiDoTki^-- 

Enable    the   amateur    to   write    as    neat-appearing   letters 
from    the    very    beginning    as    the    experienced    operator 

The   only   typewriter   that   can   do    this    is   the 

Multiplex  Hammond 

"Writing  Machine" 

Many  Typewriters  in  One 

Two  styles  of  type  or  two 
different  languages  always  on  the 
MULTIPLEX.  Any  other  two 
substituted  in  a  few  seconds. 

Ji»«-M&,,j-a*Bimfl8«j*.  I^i'^  in  the  coupon  and  mail  us 

today.   We  will  send  you  our  new 
PORTABLE  FOLDER. 

HAMMOND  TYPEWRITER  COMPANY 

558A  East  69th  Street  —  New  York  City 

PASTE      THIS      OX      A      POSTAL 

Please  send  literature  ivithout  obligation  to: 

Name     

Address   _ ._ 

L.    R. 


% 


ie.1 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 


\-ct  lo 


A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO   COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


AN  AMERICAN  NUMBER 


THE   LITTLE  REVIEW; 

THE    MAGAZINE    THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  THE   OTHERS 


DECEMBER,    1918 

A  Night  among  the  Horses  Djnna  Lja>nds^ 

Poems  Wallace  Stevem. 

An  Awakening  Shenvood  Andersoi 

You  Say  You  Said  Marianna  Maori 

As  One  Would  Not  .V.  Foster  Damoi 

Inventions  l.ouis  Gilmor: 

Poetic  Pieces  Marsden  Hartle 

The  Yellow  Goat  Ben  Hech 

1\\Q  Lament  of  Women  Djnna  Barne 

The  Ideal  Quarrel  ll'iUiain  Carlos  William 

Mefk  Maru  Mustir  Daas    Else  v.  I'rcyfnn-J.nriiinhnrr 
The  Man  Who  Resembled  a  Horse 

Rafael  Arevalo  Martiiu 
The  Boulevard  Israel  Soloi 

Tetelestai  Conrad  Aikc, 

Copyright.    1918,    by    Margaret    Anderson 

MARGARET   ANDERSON,   Editor 

EZRA   POUND,   London  Editor 
JULES   ROMAINS,    French    Editor 

Sixteenth  Street,  Neiv  York 

Foreign  office : 

;■.  1 1 ol land  Place  Chambers,  London   IF.   A'. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  12/-  a  year. 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  O.,  New  York.  N.  Y., 

under  the  act  March  3,  iSyg. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


The    Little    Revie 


IV 


An    Appeal    to    Reason 

T  SHALL  not  make  a  list  of  typographical  errors  in  the  last  num- 
o.  toer.  I  shall  not  apologize  for  them.  I  believe  every  proper 
name  in  the  number  was  misspelled,  and  there  are  other  atrocitii 
too  awful  to  mention. 

I  shall  merely  say  that  the  strain  of  getting  the  issue  out  at 
all  precluded  our  taking  the  care  necessary  to  keep  the  printer 
from_  doing  his  worst.  Ezra  Pound  suggests  that,  without  injury  to 
my  inner  nature,  I  might  hire  an  adequate  proof  reader  once  a 
month  to  prevent  these  horrors.  I  agree  with  him,  but  it  would 
take  a  battalion  of  police  to  prevent  the  riots  that  occur  in  our 
printing  office.    For  these  things  we  haven't  the  necessary  funds. 

An    Offer 

If  tiiere  are  people  in  the  world  who  wish  to  make  money  in  an 
LMe^Revkwf  ""'^^  ^^^'  ^^^  "^""^  ^'^  ^^"'"^  subscriptions  to  the 

For  every  subscription  you  get  of  $2.50  we  will  give  you  an 
unusually  liberal  commission.  ^ 

If  you  will  call  at  our  office,  or  write  us,  we  will  supply  full 
information,  lists  of  names,  etc.  ^^^ 

This  is  a  real  opportunity  for  mutual  help. 

Margaret  Anderson. 

In    the    January    Number 

"The  Dreaming  of  the  Bones",  a  Noh  play  by  William  Butler 
Yeats. 

The  first  instalment  of  a  new  novel  by  May  Sinclair-  "Marv 
Olivier:  A  Life".  "  ^ 

Episode  VIII  of  James  Joyce's  "Ulysses". 

An  essay  on  "The  Chinese  Written  Character",  by  Ernest 
Fenollosa  and  Ezra  Pound. 

A  discussion  of  James  Joyce's  play,  "Exiles". 

A  review  of  Dr.  Coomaraswamy's  "Dance  of  Siva". 


ir4i„;v. 


The    Little    Review 


A    Note    to    Our    Readers 

F>R  over  a  year  I  have  tried  not  to  bore  our  subscribers  with 
accounts  of  how  difficult  it  has  been  for  us  to  keep  on  publishing 
the  Little  Review  and  how  close  we  have  come  at  times  to  an  en- 
forced suspension. 

Conditions  in  the  publishing  market  have  been  almost  unsur- 
mountable. 

Nevertheless,  we  have  survived  the  war.  It  is  a  long  tale  and 
a  sad  tale,  but — ^won't  you  renew  your  subscriptions  promptly? 
.And  won't  you  tell  your  friends  that  we  are  publishing  the  current 
works  of  Joyce.  Yeats,  Eliot,  and  other  imp>ortant  men  in'a  cheap 
and  convenient  format?  They  can  get  these  writers  in  no  other 
American  magazine,  excepi:  spasmod'cally,  and  some  of  them  not 
at  all. 

For  those  who  are  able  to  do  more  I  am  printing  a  blank  at 
the  bottom  of  tliis  page. 

If  you  can  give  $io  toward  a  fund  that  will  help  us  to  survive 
the  next  year,  won't  you  do  so  at  once? 

If  you  can  give  $ioo,  please  realize  that  it  will  mean  more 
to  us  than  you  can  know. 

Enclosed  find  $ as  my  contribution 

to  the  Little  Review  jor  the  coming  year. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  DECEMBER,  1918  No.  8 

A    NIGHT    AMONG    THE    HORSES 
Djuna    Barnes 

q^OWARD    DUSK,  in  the  summer  of  the  year,  a  man  dressed  in 
±    a  frock  coat  and  top  hat,  and  carrying  a  cane,  crept  through 
the  underbrush  bordering  the  corral  of  the  Buckler  farm 

As  he  moved  small  twigs  snapped,  fell  and  were  silent  His 
knees  ;v^re  green  from  wounded  shrubbery  and  grass,  and  his  out- 
spread hands  tore  unheeded  plants.  His  mists  hurt  him  and  he 
rested  from  time  to  time,  always  caring  for  his  hat  and  knotted 
yellow  cane,  blowmg  through  his  moustache. 

Dew  had  been  falling  covering  the  twilight  leaves  like  myriad 
faces,  damp  with  the  perspiration  of  the  struggle  for  existence,  and 
half  a  mile  away,  standing  out  against  the  darkness  of  the  night  a 
grove  of  white  birches  shimmered,  like  teeth  in  a  skull  ' 

•  .  Ji""  ¥^'*'?  ^^  creaking  of  a  gate,  and  the  splashing  of  late  rain 
mto  the  depths  of  a  dark  cistern.  His  heart  ached  with  the  near- 
ness of  the  earth,  the  faint  murmur  of  it  moving  upon  itself  like  a 
sleeper  who  turns  to  throw  an  arm  about  a  beloved. 
.V  *^J.^Of  >«pn  moaning  among  the  skunk  cabbages,  and  John 
thrust  his  hand  deep  into  his  bosom. 

Something  somnolent  seemed  to  be  here,  and  he  wondered  It 
was  like  a  deep,  heavy,  yet  soft  prison  where,  without  sin  one 
■nay  suffer  intolerable  punishment.  ' 

Presently  he  went  on,  feeling  his  way.  He  reached  a  high 
>lank  fence  and  sensing  it  with  his  fingers,  he  lav  down  resting  his 
i€ad  against  the  ground.  '  * 

He  was  tired,  he  wanted  to  sleep,  but  he  searched  for  his  hat 
md  cane  and  straightened  out  his  coat  beneath  him  before  h^ 
urned  his  eyes  to  the  stars. 

And  now  he  could  not  sleep,  and  wondered  why  he  had 
Jiought  of  it;  something  quick  was  moving  the  earth  it  seemed 
;o  live,  to  shake  with  sudden  immensity. 

He  heard  a  dog  barking,  and  the  dim  light  from  a  farm  window 
:ept  wmkmg  as  the  trees  swung  against  its  square  of  light.     The 


The    Little    Review 


odor  of  daisies  came  to  him,  and  the  assuring,  powerful  smell  of  the 
stables;  he  opened  his  mouth  and  drew  in  his  moustache. 

A  faint  tumult  had  begun.  A  tremor  ran  under  the  length  ol 
his  body  and  trerribled  off  into  the  earth  like  a  shudder  of  joy,  — 
died  down  and  repeated  itself.  And  presently  he  began  to  tremble 
answering,  throwing  out  his  hands,  curling  them  up  weakly,  as  i: 
the  earth  were  withholding  something  precious,  necessary. 

His  hat  fell  off,  striking  a  log  with  a  dull  hollow  sound,  am 
he  pressed  his  red  moustache  against  the  grass  weeping. 

Again  he  heard  it,  felt  it;  a  hundred  hoofs  beat  upon  the  earti 
and  he  knew  the  horses  had  gone  wild  in  the  corral  on  the  othe 
side  of  the  fence,  for  animals  greet  the  summer,  striking  the  eartii 
as  friends  strike  the  back  of  friends.    He  knew,  he  understood; 
hail  to  summer,  to  life,  to  death. 

He  drew  himself  against  the  bars,  pressing  his  eyes  under  then 

peering,  waiting.  ^.        , 

He  heard  them  coming  up  across  the  heavy  turf,  roundmg  tb 
curve  in  the  Willow  Road.  He  opened  his  eyes  and  closed  thei 
again.  The  soft  menacing  sound  deepened,  as  heat  deepens,  striki 
through  the  skin  into  the  very  flesh.  Head  on,  with  long  legs  risin; 
falling,  rising  again,  striking  the  ground  insanely,  like  needles  tal  t\ 
ing  terrible,  impossible  and  purposeless  stitches. 

He  saw  their  bellies,  fawn  colored,  pitching  from  side  to  sid 
flashing  by,  straining  the  fence,  and  he  rose  up  on  his  feet  ar 
silently,  swiftly,  fled  on  beside  them. 

Something  delirious,  hysterical,  came  over  him  and  he  fe 
Blood  trickled  into  his  eyes  down  from  his  forehead.  It  had 
fine  feeling  for  a  moment,  like  a  mane,  like  that  roan  mare's  mai 
that  had  passed  him  —  red  and  long  and  splendid. 

He  lifted  his  hand,  and  closed  his  eyes  once  more,  but  the  sc 
pounding  did  not  cease,  though  now,  in  his  sitting  position,  it  on 
jogged  him  imperceptibly,  as  a  child  on  a  knee. 

It  seemed  to  him  that  he  was  smothering,  and  he  felt  along  t 
side  of  his  face  as  he  had  done  in  youth  when  they  had  put  a  c;  Jbi 
on  him  that  was  too  large.  Twining  green  things,  moist  with  eart 
blood,  crept  over  his  fingers,  the  hot,  impatient  leaves  pressed  : 
and  the  green  of  the  matted  grass  was  deathly  thick.  He  had  hea 
about  the  freeness  of  nature,  thought  it  was  so,  and  it  was  not  so. 

A  trailing  ground  pine  had  torn  up  small  blades  in  its  journ 


fdi 


The    Little    Review 


/Cross  the  hill,  and  a  vine,  wrist- thick,  twisted  about  a  pale  oak, 
lideously,  gloriously,  killing  it.  dragging  it  into  dust. 

A  wax  Patrick  Pipe  leaned  against  his  neck,  staring  with 
ilack  eyes,  and  John  opened  his  mouth,  running  his  tongue  across 
is  lips  snapping  it  off,  sighing. 

Move  as  he  would,  the  grass  was  always  under  him,  and  the 
rackling  of  last  autumn's  leaves  and  last  summer's  twigs  —  minute 
ead  of  the  infinite  greatness  —  troubled  him.  Something  p>or- 
;ntuous  seemed  connected  with  the  patient  noises  about  him.  An 
corn  dropped,  striking  a  thin  fine  powder  out  of  a  frail  oak  pod. 
[e  took  it  up,  tossing  it.    He  had  never  liked  to  see  things  fall. 

He  sat  up,  with  the  dim  thunder  of  the  horses  far  off,  but 
uickening  his  heart. 

He  went  over  the  scene  he  had  with  Freda  Buckler,  back  there 
1  the  house,  the  long  quivering  spears  of  pot-grass  standing  by  the 
indow  as  she  walked  up  and  down,  pulling  at  them,  talking  to  him. 

Small,  with  cunnng  fiery  eyes  and  a  pink  and  pointed  chin. 

daughter  of  a  mother  who  had  known  too  many  admirers  in  her 

>uth;  a  woman  with  an  ample  lap  on  which  she  held  a  Persian 

tten  or  a  trifle  of  fruit.     Bounty,  avarice,  desire,  intelligence  — 

)th  of  them  had  always  what  they  wanted. 

He  blew  down  his  moustache  again  thinking  of  Freda  in  her 
)ating  yellow  veil  that  he  had  called  ridiculous.  She  had  not  been 
igry,  he  was  nothing  but  a  stable  boy  then.  It  was  the  way  with 
ose  small  intriguing  women  whose  nostrils  were  made  delicate 
rough  the  pain  of  many  generation  that  they  m'ght  quiver  when- 
er  they  caught  a  whiff  of  the  stables. 

"As  near  as  they  can  get  to  the  earth",  he  had  said  and  was 
•eda  angry?  She  stroked  his  arm  always  softly,  looking  away, 
I  inner  bitterness  drawing  down  her  mouth. 

She  said,  walking  up  and  down  quickly,  looking  ridiculously 
lall: 

"I  am  always  gentle  John — "  frowning,  itra^Jing  her  veiil, 
rusting  out  her  chin. 

He  answered:     "I  liked  it  better  where  I  was." 

"Horses,"  she  said  showing  sharp  teeth,"  are  nothing  for  a 
m  with  your  bile  —  F>oy-boy  —  curry  comber,  smelling  cf  saddle 
ap  —  lovely!"  She  shrivelled  up  her  nose,  touching  his  arm: 
'es,  but  better  things.    I  will  show  you  —  you  shaJl  be  a  gentleman 


The    Little    Review 


— fine  clothes,  you  -will  like  them,  they  feel  nice."  And  laughing  she 
turned  on  one  high  heel,  sitting  down.  ''I  like  horses,  they  make 
people  better;  you  are  amusing,  intelligent,  you  will  see  — " 

"A  lackey!"  he  returned  passionately  throwing  up  his  arm 
"what  is  there  in  this  for  you,  what  are  you  trying  to  do  to  me? 
The  family  —  askance  —  perhaps  —  I  don't  know." 

He  sat  down  pondering.  He  was  getting  used  to  it,  or  thought 
he  was,  all  but  his  wordy  remonstrances.  He  knew  better  when 
thinking  of  his  horses,  realizing  that  when  he  should  have  married 
this  small,  unpleasant  and  clever  woman,  he  would  know  them 
no  more. 

It  was  a  game  between  them,  which  was  the  shrewder,  which 
would  win  out?  He?  A  boy  of  ill  breeding,  grown  from  the  gutter, 
fancied  by  this  woman  because  he  had  called  her  ridiculous,  or  for 
some  other  reason  that  he  would  never  know.  This  kind  of  person 
never  tells  the  truth,  and  this,  more  than  most  things,  troubled  him. 
Was  he  a  thing  to  be  played  with,  debased  into  something  better 
than  he  was,  than  he  knew. 

Partly  because  he  was  proud  of  himself  in  the  costume  of  a 
groom,  partly  because  he  was  timid,  he  desired  to  get  away,  tc 
go  back  to  the  stables.  He  walked  up  to  the  mirrors  as  if  about 
to  challenge  them,  peering  in.  He  knew  he  would  look  absurd,  an( 
then  knew,  with  shame,  that  he  looked  splendidly  better  than  mos 
of  the  gentlemen  that  Freda  Buckler  knew.  He  hated  himself.  A 
man  who  had  grown  out  of  the  city's  streets,  a  fine  common  thing 

She  saw  him  looking  into  the  mirrors,  one  after  the  other,  an< 
drew  her  mouth  down.  She  got  up,  walking  beside  him  in  the  enc 
between  him  and  them,  taking  his  arm. 

"You  shall  enter  the  army  —  you  shall  rise  to  General,  o 
Lieutenant  at  least  - —  and  there  are  horses  there,  and  the  sound  c 
stirrups  —  with  that  physique  you  will  be  happy  —  authority  yo 
know",  she  said  shaking  her  chin,  smiling. 

"Very  well,  but  a  common  soldier  — " 

"As  you  like  —  afterward." 

"Afterward?" 

"Very  well,  a  common  soldier."  * 

He  sensed  something  strange  in  her  voice,  a  sort  of  irony  an 
it  took  the  patience  out  of  him: 

"I  have  always  been  common,  I  could  commit  crimes,  easil; 


The    Little    Review 


gladly—  I'd  like  to!" 

She  looked  away.  "That's  natural",  she  said  faintly,  "it's  an 
instinct  all  strong  men  have  — " 

She  knew  what  was  troubling  him,  thwarted  instincts,  common 
beautiful  instincts  that  he  was  being  robbed  of.  He  wanted  to  do 
something  final  to  prove  his  lower  order;  caught  himself  making 
faces,  idiot  faces,  and  she  laughed. 

"If  only  your  ears  stuck  out,  chin  receded",  she  said,  "you 
might  look  degenerate,  common,  but  as  it  is — " 

And  he  would  creep  away  in  hat,  coat  and  cane  to  peer  at 
his  horses  never  daring  to  go  in  near  them.  Sometimes  when  he 
wanted  to  weep  he  would  smear  one  glove  with  harness  grease,  but 
the  other  one  he  held  behind  his  back,  pretending  one  was  enough 
to  prove  his  revolt. 

She  would  torment  him  with  vases,  books,  pictures,  making  a 
fool  of  him  gently,  persistently,  making  him  doubt  by  cruel  means, 
the  means  of  objects  he  was  not  used  to,  eternally  taking  him  out 
of  his  sphere. 

"We  have  the  best  collection  of  miniatures",  she  would  say  with 
one  knee  on  a  low  ottoman,  bringing  them  out  in  her  small  palm. 

"Here,  look." 

He  would  put  his  hands  behind  him. 

"She  was  a  great  woman  —  Lucrezia  Borgia  —  do  you  know 
history  — "  She  put  it  back  again  because  he  did  not  answer,  letting 
his  mind,  a  curious  one,  torment  itself. 

"You  love  things  very  much,  don't  you?"  she  would  questicm 
because  she  knew  that  he  had  a  passion  for  one  thing  only.  She 
kept  placing  new  ladders  beneath  his  feet,  only  to  saw  them  off  at 
the  next  rung,  making  him  nothing  more  than  a  nervous  irritable 
experiment.  He  was  uneasy,  like  one  given  food  to  smell  and  not  to 
taste,  and  for  a  while  he  had  not  wanted  to  taste,  and  then  curiosity 
began,  and  he  wanted  to,  and  he  also  wanted  to  escape,  and  he 
could  do  neither* 

Well,  after  he  had  married  her,  what  then?  Satisfy  her  whim 
and  where  would  he  be?  He  would  be  nothing,  neither  what  he  had 
been  nor  what  other  people  were.  This  seemed  to  him,  at  times,  her 
wish  —  a  sort  of  place  between  lying  down  and  standing  up,  a 
cramped  position,  a  slow  death.    A  curious  woman. 

This  same  evening  he  had  looked  at  her  attentively  for  the 


The    Little    Review 


first  time.  Her  hair  was  rather  pretty,  though  too  mousy,  yet  just 
in  the  nape  of  the  neck,  where  it  met  the  lawn  of  the  collar  it  was 
very  attractive.    She  walked  well  for  a  little  woman  too. 

Sometimes  she  would  pretend  to  be  lively,  would  run  a  little 
catch  herself  at  it,  as  if  she  had  not  intended  to  do  it,  and  calnj 
down  once  more,  or  creeping  up  to  him,  stroking  his  arm,  talking 
to  him,  she  would  walk  beside  him  softly,  slowly  that  he  might  not 
step  out,  that  he  would  have  to  crawl  across  the  carpet. 

Once  he  had  thought  of  trying  her  with  honesty,  with  the  truth 
of  the  situation.  Perhaps  she  would  give  him  an  honest  answer, 
and  he  had  tried. 

"Now  Miss  Freda  —  just  a  word  —  what  are  you  trying  to 
do.  What  is  it  you  want?  What  is  there  in  me  that  can  interest 
you?  I  want  you  to  tell  me  —  I  want  to  know  —  I  have  got  to 
ask  someone,  and  I  haven't  anyone  to  ask  but  you." 

And  for  a  moment  she  almost  relented,  only  to  discover  that 
she  could  not  if  she  had  wished.  She  did  not  know  always  what 
she  meant  herself. 

"I'll  tell  you",  she  said,  hoping  that  this,  somehow,  might  lead 
her  into  the  truth,  for  herself,  if  .not  for  him,  but  it  did  not,  "You 
are  a  little  nervous,  you  will  get  used  to  it  —  you  will  even  grow 
to  like  it  Be  patient.  You  will  learn  soon  enough  that  there  is 
nothing  in  the  world  so  agreeable  as  climbing,  changing." 

"Well,"  he  said  trying  to  read  her,  "And  then?" 

"That's  all,  you  will  regret  the  stables  in  the  end  —  that's  all" 
Her  nostrils  quivered.  A  light  came  into  her  eyes,  a  desire  to  defy, 
to  be  defied. 

And  then  on  this  last  night  he  had  done  something  terrible,  he 
had  made  a  blunder.  There  had  been  a  party.  The  guests,  a  lot 
of  them,  were  mostly  drunk,  or  touched  with  drink.  And  he  too 
had  too  much.  He  remembered  having  thrown  his  arms  about  a 
tall  woman,  gowned  in  black  with  loose  shoulder  straps,  dragging 
her  through  a  dance.  He  had  even  sung  a  bit  of  a  song,  madly, 
wildly,  horribly.  And  suddenly  he  had  been  brought  up  sharp  by 
the  fact  that  no  one  thought  his  behavior  strange,  that  no  one 
thought  him  presumptuous.  Freda's  mother  had  not  even  moved  or 
dropped  the  kitten  from  her  lap  where  it  sat,  its  loud  resolute 
purr  shaking  the  satin  of  her  gown. 

And  he  felt  that  Freda  had  got  him  where  she  wanted  him, 


The    Little    Review 


between  two  rungs.    Going  directly  up  to  her  he  said: 

"You  are  ridiculous!"  and  twirled  his  moustache,  spitting  into 
the  garden. 

And  he  knew  nothing  about  what  happened  until  he  found  him- 
self in  the  shrubbery  crawling  toward  the  corral,  through  the  dusk 
and  the  dampness  of  the  leaves,  carrying  his  cane,  making  sure  of 
his  hat,  looking  up  at  the  stars. 

And  now  he  knew  why  he  had  come.  He  was  witih  his  horses 
again.  His  eyes,  pressed  against  the  bars,  stared  in.  The  black 
stallion  in  the  lead  had  been  his  special  pet,  a  rough  animal,  but 
kindly,  knowing.  And  here  they  were  once  more,  tearing  up  tiie 
grass,  galloping  about  in  tlie  night  like  a  ball-room  full  of  real, 
people,  people  who  wanted  to  do  things,  who  did  what  ithQr 
wanted  to  do. 

He  began  to  crawl  through  the  bars,  slowly,  deftly,  and  when 
half  way  through  he  paused,  thinking. 

Presently  he  went  on  again,  and  drawing  himself  into  the  cor- 
ral, his  hat  and  cane  thrown  in  before  him,  he  lay  there  mouth 
to  the  grass. 

They  were  still  running,  but  less  madly,  one  of  them  had  gone 
up  the  Willow  Road  leading  into  a  farther  pasture,  in  a  flare  of  dust, 
through  which  it  looked  immense  and  faint. 

On  the  top  of  the  hill  three  or  four  of  the  horses  were  standing, 
testing  the  weather.  He  would  mount  one,  he  would  ride  away,  he 
would  escape.  And  his  horses,  tiie  things  he  knew,  would  be  his 
escape. 

Bareback,  he  thought,  would  be  like  the  days  when  he  had 
taken  what  he  could  from  the  rush  of  the  streets,  joy,  exhilaration, 
life,  and  he  was  not  afraid.    He  wanted  to  stand  up,  to  cry  aloud. 

And  he  saw  ten  or  twelve  of  them  rounding  the  curve,  and  he 
did  stand  up. 

They  did  not  seem  to  know  him,  did  not  seem  to  know  what 
to  make  of  him,  and  he  stared  at  them  wondering.  He  did  not 
think  of  his  white  shirt  front,  his  sudden  arising,  the  darkness,  their 
excitement.    Surely  they  would  know,  in  a  moment  more. 

Wheeling,  flaring  their  wet  nostrils,  throwing  up  their  manes, 
striking  the  earth  in  a  quandary,  they  came  on,  whinnied  faintly, 
and  he  knew  what  it  was  to  be  afraid. 

He  had  never  been  afraid  and  he  went  down  on  his  knees. 


10  The    Little    Review 

With  a  new  horror  in  his  heart  he  damned  them.  He  turned  his 
eyes  up,  but  he  could  not  open  them.  He  thought  rapidly,  calling 
on  Freda  in  his  heart,  speaking  tenderly,  promising. 

A  flare  of  heat  passed  his  throat  and  descended  into  his  bosom. 

"I  want  to  live.  I  can  do  it  —  damn  it  —  I  can  do  it.  I  can 
forge  ahead,  make  my  mark." 

He  forgot  where  he  was  for  a  moment  and  found  new  pleasure 
in  this  spoken  admission,  this  new  rebellion.  He  moved  with  the 
faint  shaking  of  the  earth  like  a  child  on  a  woman's  lap. 

The  upraised  hoofs  of  the  first  horse  missed  him,  but  die  second 
did  not. 

And  presently  the  horses  drew  apart,  nibbling  here  and  there, 
switching  their  tails,  avoiding  a  patch  of  tall  grass. 

POEMS 

Wallace    Stevens 
Architecture  for  the  Adoration  of  Beauty 


What  manner  of  building  shall  we  build  for 

the  adoration  of  beauty? 

Let  us  design  this  chastel  de  chastete, 

De  pensee  .  . 

Never  cease  to  deploy  the  structure  .  .  . 

Keep  the  laborers  shouldering  plinths  .  .  , 

Pass  the  whole  of  life  earing  the  clink  of  the 

chisels  of  the  stone-cutters  cutting  the  stones. 

II 

In  this  house,  what  manner  of  utterance  shall 

there  be? 

What  heavenly  dithyramb 

And  cantilene? 

What  niggling  forms  of  gargoyle  patter? 

Of  what  shall  the  speech  be, 

In  that  splay  of  marble 

And  of  obedient  pillars? 


The    Little    Review  ii 


III 

And  how  shall  those  come  vested  that  come  tliere? 

In  their  ugly  reminders? 

Or  gaudy  as  tulips? 

As  they  climb  the  stairs 

To  the  group  of  Flora  Coddling  Hecuba? 

As  they  climb  the  flights 

To  the  closes 

Overlooking  whole  seasons? 

IV 

Let  us  build  the  building  of  light. 

Push  up  the  towers 

To  the  cock-tops.  .    . 

These  are  the  pointings  of  our  edifice, 

Which,  like  a  gorgeous  palm. 

Shall  tuft  the  commonplace. 

These  are  the  window-sill 

On  which  the  quiet  moonlight  lies. 

V 

How  shall  we  hew  the  sun, 

Split  it  and  make  blocks. 

To  build  a  ruddy  palace? 

How  carve  the  violet  moon 

To  set  in  nicks? 

Let  us  fix  portals,  East  and  West, 

Abhorring  green-blue  North  and  blue-green  South. 

Our  chiefest  dome  a  demoiselle  of  gold. 

Pierce  the  interior  with  pouring  shafts, 

In  diverse  chambers. 

Pierce,  too,  with  buttresses  of  coral  air 

And  purple  timbers. 

Various  argent  ines. 

Embossings  of  the  sky. 


12  The     Little     Review 


And,  finally,  set  guardians  in  the  grounds, 

Gray,  grewsome  grumblers. 

For  no  one  proud,  nor  stiff, 

No  solemn  one,  nor  pale, 

No  chafferer,  may  come 

To  sully  the  begonias,  nor  vex 

With  holy  or  sublime  ado 

The  kremlin  of  kermess. 

VII  ' 

Only  the  lusty  and  the  plenteous 

Shall   walk 

The  bronze-filled  plazas 

And  the  nut-shell  esplanades. 

Nuances  of  a  Theme  by  Williams 

IVs  a' strange  courage 

you   give   me,   anciefit   star: 

Shine   alone   in   the   sunrise 
toward  which  you  lend  no  part! 


Shine  alone,  shine  nakedly,  shine  like  bronze, 
that  reflects  neither  my  face  nor  any  inner  part 
of  my  being,  shine  like  fire,  that  mirrors  nothing. 

II 

Lend  no  part  to  any  humanity  that  suffuses 

you  in  its  own  light. 

Be  not  chimera  of  morning. 

Half-man,  half-star. 

Be  not  an  intelligence. 

Like  a  widow's  bird 

Or  an  old  horse. 


T  he    Little    Review  13 


Anecdote    of    Canna 

Huge  are  the  canna  in  the  dreams  of 
X,  the  mighty  thought,  the  mighty  man. 
They  fill  the  terrace  of  his  capitol. 

His  thought  sleeps  not.    Yet  thought  that  wakes 
In  sleep  may  never  meet  another  thought 
Or  thing  .  .  .  Now  day-break  comes  .  .  . 

X  promenades  the  dewy  stones, 
Observes  the  canna  with  a  clinging  eye, 
Observes  and  then  continues  to  observe. 


AN   AWAKENING  / 

Sherwood    Anderson 

>ELLE  CARPENTER  had  a  dark  skin,  grey  eyes  and  thick 
/  Jips.  She  was  tall  and  strong.  When  black  thoughts  visited 
she  grew  angry  and  wished  she  were  a  man  and  could  fight 
meone  with  her  fists.  She  worked  in  the  millinery  shop  kept  by 
rs.  Nate  McHugh  and  during  the  day  sat  trimming  hats  by  a 
ndow  at  the  rear  of  die  store.  She  was  the  daughter  of  Henry  Car- 
nter,  bookkeeper  in  the  First  National  Bank  of  Winesburg,  Ohio 
d  lived  with  him  in  a  gloomy  old  house  far  out  at  the  end  of  Buck- 
e  Street.  The  house  was  surroimded  by  pine  trees  and  there 
IS  no  grass  beneath  the  trees.  A  rusty  tin  eaves-trough  had  slipped 
)m  its  fastenings  at  the  back  of  the  house  and  when  the  wind  blew 
beat  against  the  roof  of  a  small  shed,  making  a  dismal  drumming 

ise  that  sometimes  persisted  all  through  the  night. 

When  she  was  a  young  girl  Henry  Carpenter  made  life  almost  un- 
arable  for  his  daughter,  but  as  she  emerged  from  girlhood  into 
►manhood  he  lost  his  power  over  her.  The  bookeeper's  life  was  made 

of  innumerable  little  pettinesses.  When  he  went  to  the  bank  in 
morning  he  stepped  into  a  closet  and  put  on  a  black  alpaca 

at  that  had  become  ^abby  with  age.    At  night  when  he  returned 

his    home  he  donned  another  black  alpaca  coat.    Every  evening 


14  The     Little     Review 


he  pressed  the  dothes  worn  in  the  streets.  He  had  invented  ; 
arrangement  of  boards  for  the  purpose.  The  trousers  to  his  stre 
suit  were  placed  between  the  boards  and  the  boards  were  clamp 
together  with  heavy  screws.  In  the  morning  he  wiped  the  boar 
with  a  damp  cloth  and  stood  them  upright  behind  the  dining  roc 
door.  If  they  were  moved  during  the  day  he  was  speechless  wi 
anger  and  did  not  recover  his  equilibrium  for  a  week. 

The  bank  cashier  was  a  little  bully  and  was  afraid  of  1 
daughter.  She,  he  realized,  knew  the  story  of  his  brutal  tre: 
ment  of  the  girl's  mother  and  hated  him  for  it.  One  day  she  we 
home  at  noon  and  carried  a  handful  of  soft  mud,  taken  from  t 
road,  into  the  house.  .With  the  mud  she  smeared  the  face  of  t 
boards  used  for  the  pressing  of  trousers  and  then  went  back 
her  work  feeling  relieved  and  happy. 

Belle  Carpenter  occasionally  walked  out  in  the  evening  w 
George  Willard,  a  reporter  on  the  Winesburg  Eagle.  Secretly  s 
loved  another  man,  but  her  love  affair,  about  which  no  one  km 
caused  her  much  anxiety.  She  was  in  love  with  Ed  Handby,  b 
tender  in  Ed  Griffith's  Saloon,  and  went  about  with  the  young 
porter  as  a  kind  of  relief  to  her  feelings.  She  did  not  think  that  1 
station  in  life  would  permit  her  to  be  seen  in  the  company  of 
bartender,  and  she  walked  about  under  the  trees  with  George  \\ 
lard  and  let  him  kiss  her  to  relieve  a  longing  that  was  very  insist' 
in  her  nature.  She  felt  that  she  could  keep  the  younger  man  wit] 
bounds.     About  Ed  Handby  she  was  somewhat  uncertain. 

Handby,  the  bartender,  was  a  tall  broad-shouldered  man 
thirty  who  lived  in  a  room  upsta'rs  above  Griffiith's  saloon.  1 
fists  were  large  and  his  eyes  unusually  small  but  his  voice,  as  thoi 
striving  to  conceal  the  power  back  of  his  fists,  was  soft  £ 
quiet. 

At  twenty-five  the  bartender  had  inherited  a  large  farm  fr 
an  uncle  in  Indiana.  When  sold  the  farm  brought  in  eight  thousr 
dollars  which  Ed  spent  in  six  months.  Going  to  Sandusky,  on  L: 
Erie,  be  began  an  orgy  of  dissipation,  the  story  of  which  afterw; 
filled  his  home  town  with  awe.  Here  and  there  he  went  throwing 
money  about,  drivihg  carriages  through  the  streets,  giving  w 
parties  to  crowds  of  men  and  women,  playing  cards  for  high  stal 
and  keeping  mistresses  whose  wardrobes  cost  him  hundreds  of  c 
lars.     One  night  at  a  resort  called  Cedar  Point  he  got  into  a  fi, 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  15 

and  ran  amuck  like  a  wild  thing.  With  his  fist  he  broke  a  large 
mirror  in  the  wash-room  of  a  hotel  and  later  went  about  smashing 
windows  and  breaking  chairs  in  dance  halls  for  the  joy  of  hearing 
the  glass  rattle  on  the  floor  and  seeing  the  terror  in  the  eyes  of 
clerks,  who  had  come  from  Sandusky  to  spend  the  evening  at  the 
resort  with  their  sweethearts. 

T!he  affair  between  Ed  Handby  and  Belle  Carpenter  on  the  sur- 
face amounted  to  nothing.  He  had  succeeded  in  spending  but  one 
evening  in  her  company.  On  that  evening  he  hi'red  a  horse  and 
buggy  at  Wesley  Moyer's  livery  barn  and  took  her  for  a  drive. 
'The  conviction  that  she  was  the  woman  his  nature  demanded  and 
that  he  must  get  her,  settled  upon  him  and  he  told  her  of  his  desires. 
The  bartender  was  ready  to  marry  and  to  begin  trying  to  earn 
money  for  the  support  of  his  wife,  but  so  simple  was  his  nature 
that  he  found  it  difficult  to  explain  his  intentions.  His  body  ached 
with  physical  long'ng  and  with  his  body  he  expressed  himself. 
Taking  the  milliner  into  his  arms  and  holding  her  tightly,  in  spite 
of  her  struggles,  he  kissed  her  until  she  became  helpless.  Then  he 
brought  her  back  to  town  and  let  her  out  of  the  buggy.  "When  I 
get  hold  of  you  aga'n  I'll  not  let  you  go.  You  can't  play  with  me," 
he  declared  as  he  turned  to  drive  away.  Then,  jumping  out  of 
the  buggy,  he  gripped  her  shoulders  with  his  strong  hands.  "Ill 
keep  you  for  good  the  next  time,"  he  said.  "You  might  as  well 
make  up  your  mind  to  that.  It's  you  and  me  for  it  and  I'm  going 
to  have  you  before  I  get  through. 

One  night  in  January  When  there  was  a  new  moon  George  Wil- 
lard,  who  was,  in  Ed  Handby's  mind,  the  only  obstacle  to  'his  getting 
Belle  Carpenter,  v^^ent  for  a  walk.  Early  that  evening  George  went 
into  Ransom  Surbeck's  pool  room  with  Seth  Richmond  and  Art  Wil- 
son, son  of  the  town  butcher.  Seth  Richmond  stood  with  his  back 
against  the  wall  and  remained  silent,  but  George  Willard  talked. 
The  pool  room  was  filled  with  Winesburg  boys  and  they  talked 
of  women.  The  young  reporter  got  into  that  vein.  He  said  that 
women  should  look  out  for  themselves,  that  the  fellow  who  went 
out  with  a  girl  was  not  responsible  for  what  happened.  As  he  talked 
he  looked  about,  eager  for  attenion.  He  held  the  floor  for  five  min- 
ute and  then  Art  W^!lson  began  to  talk.  Art  was  learning  the 
barber's  trade  in  Cal  Prouse's  shop  and  already  began  to  consider 


li  The    Little    Review 


himself  an  authority  in  such  matters  as  baseball,  horse  racing, 
drinking  and  going  about  with  women.  He  began  to  tell  of  a 
night  when  he  with  two  men  from  WineSburg  went  into  a  house 
of  prostitution  at  the  County  Seat.  The  butcher's  son  held  a  cigar 
in  the  side  of  his  mouth  and  as  he  talked  spat  on  the  floor.  "The 
women  in  the  place  couldn't  embarrass  me  although  they  tried  hard 
enough"  he  boasted.  "One  of  the  girls  in  the  'house  tried  to  get 
fresh  but  I  fooled  her.  As  soon  as  she  began  to  talk  I  went  and 
sat  in  her  lap  .  Everyone  in  the  room  laughed  when  I  kissed  her, 
I  taught  her  to  let  me  alone." 

George  Willard  went  out  of  the  pool  room  and  into  Main 
Street.  For  days  the  weather  had  been  bitter  cold  with  a  high  wind 
blowing  down  on  the  town  from  Lake  Erie,  eighteen  miles  to  the 
norlii,  but  on  that  night  the  wind  had  died  away  and  a  new  moon 
made  the  night  unusually  lovely.  Without  thinking  where  he  was 
going  or  what  he  wanted  to  do  George  went  out  of  Main  Street  and 
began  walking  in  dimly  lighted  streets  filled  with  frame  houses. 

Out  of  doors  under  the  black  sky  filled  with  stars  he  forgot  his 
companions  of  the  pool  room.  Because  it  was  dark  and  he  was 
alone  be  began  to  talk  aloud.  In  a  spirit  of  play  he  reeled  along 
the  street  imitating  a  drunken  man  and  then  imagined  himself  a 
soldier  clad  in  Shining  boots  that  reached  to  the  knees  and  wearing 
a  sword  that  jingled  as  he  walked.  As  a  soldier  he  pictured  himself 
as  an  inspector,  passing  before  a  long  line  of  men  who  stood  at 
attention.  He  began  to  examine  the  accoutrements  of  the  men. 
Before  a  tree  he  stopped  and  began  to  scold.  "Your  pack  is  not  in 
order,"  he  said  sharply.  "How  many  times  will  I  have  to  speak 
of  this  matter?  Everything  must  be  in  order  here.  We  have  a 
difficult  task  before  us  and  no  difficult  task  can  be  done  without 
order." 

Hypnotized  by  his  own  words  the  young  man  stumbled  along 
the  board  sidewalk  saying  more  words.  "There  is  a  law  for  armies 
and  for  men  too,"  he  muttered,  lost  in  reflection.  "The  law  begins 
with  little  things  and  spreads  out  until  it  covers  everything.  In 
every  little  thing  there  must  be  order,  in  the  place  where  men 
work,  in  their  clothes,  in  their  thoughts.  I  myself  must  be  orderly. 
I  must  learn  that  law.  I  must  get  myself  into  touch  with  some- 
thing orderly  and  big  that  swings  through  the  night  like  a  star. 
In  my  little  way  I  must  begin  to  learn  something,  to  give  and  swing 


The    Littli    Review  17 

and  work  with  life,  with  the  law." 

George  Willard  stopped  by  a  picket  fence  near  a  street  lan^ 
md  his  body  began  to  tremble.  He  had  never  before  thought  such 
thoughts  as  had  just  come  into  his  head  and  he  wondered  where 
hey  had  come  from.  For  the  moment  it  seemed  to  him  that  some 
/oice  outside  of  himself  had  been  talking  as  he  walked.  He  was 
rniazed  and  delighted  with  his  own  mind  and  when  he  walked  on 
igain  spoke  of  the  matter  with  fervor.  "To  come  out  of  Ransom 
J5Ui"beck's  pool  room  and  think  things  like  that,"  he  whispered.  "It 
s  better  to  be  alone.  If  I  talked  like  Art  Wilson  the  boys  would 
mderstand  me  but  they  wouldn't  understand  what  I  have  been 
;hinking  down  here," 

In  Winesburg,  as  in  all  Ohio  towns  of  twenty  years  ago,  there 
,v'as  a  section  in  Which  lived  day  laborers.  As  the  time  of  factories 
lad  not  yet  come  the  laborers  worked  in  the  fields  or  were  section 
lands  on  the  railroads.  Tihey  worked  twelve  hours  a  day  and 
•eceived  one  dollar  for  the  long  day  of  todl.  The  houses  in  which 
Jiey  lived  were  small  Cheaply  constructed  wooden  affairs  with  a 
jarden  at  the  back.  The  more  comfortable  among  them  kept  cows 
.nd  perhaps  a  pig,  housed  in  a  little  shed  at  the  rear  of  the 
garden. 

With  his  head  filled  with  resounding  thoughts  George  Wil- 
ard  walked  into  such  a  street  on  the  clear  January  nigM.  The 
;treet  was  dimly  lighted  and  in  places  there  was  no  sidewalk, 
[n  the  scene  that  lay  about  him  there  was  something  that  excited 
lis  already  aroused  fancy.  For  a  year  he  had  been  devoting  all 
>f  his  odd  moments  to  the  reading  of  books  and  now  some  tale 
le  had  read  concerning  life  in  old  world  towns  of  the  middle  ages 
:ame  sharply  back  to  his  mind  so  that  he  stimibled  forward  with  the 
:«rious  feeling  of  one  revisiting  a  place  that  had  been  a  part  of 
lome  former  existence.  On  an  impulse  he  turned  out  of  the  street 
md  went  into  a  little  dark  alleyway  behind  the  sheds  in  which  lived 
he  cows  and  pigs. 

For  a  half  hour  he  stayed  in  the  alleyway,  smelling  the  strong 
anell  of  animals  too  closely  housed  and  letting,  his  mind  play  with 
he  strange  new  thoughts  that  came  to  him.  The  very  rankness  of 
he  smell  of  manure  in  the  clear  sweet  air  awoke  something  heady 
n  his  brain.  The  poor  little  houses  lighted  by  kerosene  lamps,  the 
moke  from  the  chimneys  mounting  straight  up  into  the  clear  air, 


iS  T  he    Little    Review 


the  grunting  of  pigs,  the  women  clad  in  cheap  calico  dresses  • 
washing  dishes  in  the  kitchens,  ithe  footsteps  of  men  coming  out 
the  houses  and  going  off  to  ithe  stores  and  saloons  of  Main  Str 
the  dogs  barking  and  the  children  crying  —  all  these  things  m 
him  seem,  as  he  lurked  in  the  darkness,  oddly  detached  and  aj 
from  all  life. 

The  excited  young  man,  unable  to  bear  the  weight  of  his  ( 
thoughts,  began  to  move  cautiously  along  the  alleyway.  A 
attacked  h"m  and  had  to  be  driven  away  with  stones  and  a  man 
peared  at  the  door  of  one  of  the  houses  and  began  to  swear  at 
dog.  George  went  into  a  vacant  lot  and  throwing  back  his  h 
looked  up  at  the  sky.  He  felt  unutterably  big  and  re-made  by 
simple  experience  through  which  he  had  been  passing  and  i; 
kind  of  fervor  of  emotion  put  up  his  hands,  thrusting  them  into 
darkness  above  his  head  and  muttering  words.  The  desire  to 
words  overcame  him  and  he  said  words  without  meaning,  rol 
them  over  on  his  tongue  and  saying  them  because  they  were  bi 
words,  full  of  meaning.  "Death"  he  muttered,  "night,  the  sea,  J 
loveliness."  George  Willard  came  out  of  the  vacant  lot  and  si 
again  on  the  sidewalk  facing  the  houses.  He  felt  that  all  of 
people  in  the  little  street  must  be  brothers  and  sisters  to  him 
he  wished  he  had  the  courage  to  call  them  out  of  their  houses  an 
shake  their  hands.  "If  ^there  were  only  a  woman  here  I  would 
hdd  of  her  hand  and  we  would  run  until  we  were  both  tired  c 
he  thought.  "That  would  make  me  feel  better."  With  the  tho' 
of  a  woman  in  his  mind  he  walked  out  of  the  street  and  went  tOA 
the  house  where  Belle  Carpenter  lived.  He  thought  she  would 
derstand  his  mood  and  that  he  would  achieve  in  her  presem 
posifon  he  had  long  been  wanting  to  achieve.  In  the  past  v 
he  had  been  with  her  and  had  kissed  her  lips  he  had  come  a 
filled  with  anger  at  himself.  He  had  felt  like  one  being  used 
some  obscure  purpose  and  had  not  enjoyed  the  feeling.  No^ 
thought  he  had  suddenly  become  too  big  tq  be  used. 

When   George  Willard  got  to  Belle  Carpenter's  house  t 
had  already  been  a  visitor  there  before  him.    Ed  Handby  had  c 
to  the  door  and  calling  Belle  out  of  ithe  house  had  tried  to 
to  her.    He  had  wanted  to  ask  the  woman  to  come  away  with 
and  to  be  his  wife,  but  when  she  came  and  stood  by  the  doo: 
lost  h's  self-assurance  and  became  sullen.     "You  stay  away  i 


The    Little    Review 


19 


that  kid,"  he  growled,  thinking  of  George  Wiiiard,  and  then,  not 
knowing  what  else  to  say.  turned  to  go  awky.  "If  I  catch  you  to- 
gether I  will  break  your  bones  and  his  too",  he  added.  The  bar- 
tender had  come  to  woo,  not  to  threaten,  and  was  angry  with  him- 
self because  of  his  failure. 

Wnhen  her  lover  had  departed  Belle  went  indoors  and  ran 
hurriedly  upstairs.  From  a  window  at  the  upper  part  of  the  house 
she  saw  Ed  Handby  cross  the  street  and  sit  down  on  a  horse  block 
before  the  house  of  a  neighbor.  In  the  dim  light  the  man  sat 
motionless  holding  his  head  in  his  hands.  She  was  made  happy  by 
the  sight  and  when  George  Willard  came  to  the  door  she  greeted 
him  effusively  and  hurriedly  put  on  her  hat.  She  thought  that  as 
'she  walked  through  the  streets  with  young  Willard,  Ed  Handby 
would  follow  and  she  wanted  to  make  him  suffer. 

For  an  hour  Belle  Carpenter  and  the  young  reporter  walked 
about  under  the  trees  in  the  sweet  night  air.  George  Willard  was 
full  of  big  words.  The  sense  of  power  that  had  come  to  him  during 
the  hour  in  the  darkness  of  the  alleyway  remained  with  him  and 
he  talked  boldly,  swaggering  along  and  swinging  his  arms  about. 
He  wanted  to  make  Bdlle  Carpenter  realize  that  he  was  aware  of  his 
former  weakness  and  that  he  had  changed.  "You  will  find  me  dif- 
ferent," he  declared,  thrusting  his  hands  into  his  pockets  and  looking 
boldly  into  her  eyes.  "I  don't  knov/  why  but  it  is  so.  You  have 
got  to  take  me  for  a  man  or  let  me  alone.    That's  how  it  is." 

Up  and  down  the  quiet  streets  under  the  new  moon  went 
tlie  woman  and  the  boy.  When  George  had  finished  talking  they 
turned  down  a  side  street  and  went  across  a  bridge  into  a  path 
that  ran  up  the  side  of  a  hill.  The  hill  began  at  Waterworks  Pond 
and  climbed  upw^ards  to  the  Winesburg  Fair  Grounds.  On  the 
hillside  grew  dense  bushes  and  small  trees  and  among  the  bushes 
were  little  open  spaces  carpeted  with  long  grass,  now  stiff  and 
frozen. 

As  he  walked  behind  the  woman  up  the  hill  George  Willard's 
heart  began  to  beat  rapidly  and  his  shoulders  straightened.  Suddenly 
he  decided  that  Belle  Carpenter  was  about  to  surrender  herself 
to  h-m.  The  new  force  that  had  manifested  itself  in  him  had  he 
felt  been  at  work  upon  her  and  had  led  to  her  conquest.  T^ie 
thought  made  him  half  drunk  with  the  sense  of  masculine  power. 
Although  he  had  been  annoyed  that  as  they  walked. about  she  had 


20  The    Little    Review 


not  seemed  to  be  listening  to  his  words,  the  fact  that  ^e  had  ac- 
companied him  to  this  place  took  all  his  doubts  away.  "It  is  diff- 
erent. Everything  has  become  different,"  he  thou^t  and  taking 
hold  of  her  shoulder  turned  her  about  and  stood  looking  at  her,  his 
eyes  shining  with  pride. 

Belle  Carpenter  did  not  resist.  When  he  kissed  her  upon  the 
lips  she  leaned  heavily  against  him  and  looked  over  his  shoulder  intc 
the  darkness.  In  her  whole  attitude  there  was  a  suggestion  of  wait- 
ing. Again,  as  in  the  alleyway,  George  Willard's  mind  ran  off  into 
words  and,  holding  the  woman  tightly,  he  whispered  the  words  into 
the  still  night.    "Lust,"  he  whispered,  "lust  and  night  and  women." 

.  George  Willard  did  not  understand  what  happened  to  him  that 
night  on  the  hillside.  Later,  when  he  got  to  his  own  room,  he  wanted 
to  weep  and  then  grew  half  insane  with  anger  and  hate.  He  hated 
Belle  Carpenter  and  was  sure  that  all  his  life  he  would  continue  to 
hate  her.  On  the  hill-side  he  had  led  the  woman  to  one  of  the  little 
open  spaces  among  the  bushes  and  had  dropi>ed  to  his  knees  beside 
her.  As  in  the  vacant  lot,  by  the  laborers'  houses,  he  had  put  up  his 
hands  in  gratitude  for  the  new  power  in  himself  and  was  waiting  for 
the  woman  to  speak  when  Ed  Handby  appeared. 

The  bartender  did  not  want  to  beat  the  boy,  who  he  tiiought 
had  tried  to  take  his  woman  away.  He  knew  that  beating  was  un- 
necessary, that  he  had  power  within  himself  to  accomplish  his  piu*- 
pose  without  that.  Gripping  George  by  the  shoulder  and  pulling  him 
to  his  feet  he  held  him  with  one  hand  while  he  looked  at  Belle  Car- 
penter seated  on  the  grass.  Then  with  a  quick  wide  movement  of  his 
arm  he  sent  the  younger  man  sprawling  away  into  the  bushes  and 
began  to  bully  the  woman,  who  had  risen  to  her  feet.  "You're  no 
good,"  he  said  roughly.  "I've  half  a  mind  not  to  bother  with  you. 
I'd  let  you  alone  if  I  didn't  want  you  so  much." 

On  his  hands  and  knees  in  the  bushes  George  Willard  stared 
at  the  scene  before  him  and  tried  hard  to  think.  He  prepared  to 
spring  at  the  man  who  had  humiliated  him.  To  be  beaten  seemed 
infinitely  better  than  to  be  thus  hurled  ignominiously  aside.  ^ 

Three  times  the  young  reporter  sprang  at  Ed  Handby  and 
each  time  the  bartender,  catching  him  by  the  shoulder,  hurled  him 
back  into  the  bushes.  The  older  man  seemed  prepared  to  keep 
the  exercise  going  indefinitely  but  George  Willard's  head  struck 


The    Little    Review  21 

the  root  of  a  tree  and  he  lay  still.     Then  Ed  Handby  took  Belle 
Carpenter  by  the  arm  and  marched  her  away. 

George  heard  the  man  and  woman  making  their  way  through 
the  bushes.  As  he  crept  down  the  hillside  his  heart  was  sick  with- 
in him.  He  hated  himself  and  he  hated  the  fate  that  had  brought 
about  his  humiliation.  When  his  mind  went  back  to  the  hour 
alone  in  the  alleyway  he  was  puzzled,  and  stopping  in  ithe  darkness, 
listened,  hoping  to  hear  again  the  voice,  outside  himself,  that  had 
so  short  a  time  before  put  new  courage  into  his  heart.  When  his 
way  homeward  led  him  again  into  the  street  of  frame  houses  he 
could  not  bear  the  sight  and  began  to  run,  wanting  to  get  quickly 
out  of  the  neighborhood  that  now  seemed  to  him  utterly  squalid  and 
commonplace. 

YOU    SAY    YOU    SAID 

Marianna    Moore 

"Few  words  are  best." 

Not  here.     Discretion  has  been  abandoned  in  this  part 

of  the  world  too  lately 

For  it  to  be  admired.     Disgust  for  it  is  like  the 
Equinox  —  all  things^  in 

One.  Disgust  is 

No  psychologist  and  has  not  opp)ortunity  to  ibe  a  hypocrite. 

It  says  to  the  saw-toothed  bayonet  and  to  the  cue 
Of  blood  behind  the  sub- 

Marine — to  the 

Poisoned  comb,  to  the  Kaiser  of  Germany  and  to  the 
intolerant  gateman  at  the  exit  from  the  eastbound  ex- 
press:    "I  hate 

You  less  than  you  must  hate 

Yourselves:     You  have 

Accoutred  me.       'Without  enemies  one's   courage   flags'. 

Your  error  has  been  timed 

To  aid  me,  I  am  in  debt  to  you  for  you  have  primed 
Me  against  subterfuge." 


22  The    Little    Review 

AS  ONE  WOULD  NOT 

S.   Foster  Damon 

THE  DOORWAY  might  well  have  been  hammered  from  silverT 
wood  or  carved  from  electrum-lacquer,  but  la  Duchesse  pre- 
ferred to  suggest  the  philosophy  of  Evanescence,  therefore  her  portal 
seemed  to  consist  of  nothing  but  tinsel  woven  into  trembling  shapes  — 
fruits,  fringes  and  grotesques  of  all  sorts,  with  flowers  and  leaves  of 
wax  for  brief  touches  of  color.  , 

La  Duchesse  is  a  curious  personage.  She  only  goes  to  other  peo- 
ples' parties,  never  to  her  own;  she  believfes  that  her  guests  enjoy 
themselves  so  much  better.  Therefore  I  was  sure  not  to  see  her  this 
evening;  which  I  rather  regretted,  as  I  delight  to  dissect  (with  her 
supple  assistance!)  the  psychologies  of  the  various  affairs,  the  only 
evidence  that  we  allow  ourselves  being  the  scissoring  and  disposi- 
tion of  the  ladies'  patches.  It  is  a  pretty  game,  and  one  that  is 
not  infrequently  anticipatory  even  of  the  intentions  of  the  ladies 
concerned.     Further  subtlety  is  not  credible. 

As  I  entered  her  portal,  a  cloud  of  boys  ran  forward  to  re- 
ceive my  cape  and  cane.  They  were  Chinese,  quite  naked,  except 
for  Pompeian  wings  plaited  of  flowers,  and  for  large  black  face- 
masks  which  were  bound  across  their  chubby  bellies.  One  of  them 
conducted  me  to  the  ball-room,  where  I  was  announced. 

I  was  t^e  first  man  to  arrive,  and  I  knew  none  of  the  ladies 
present.  La  Duchesse  is  sometimes  pleased  to  be  delicately  cruel, 
but  she  mingles  sandal-dust  with  her  pepper;  so  it  vras  perhaps 
characteristic  that  none  of  her  guests  that  evening  had  ever  met 
before.  This  has  its  advantages,  and,  appreciating  her  attitude, 
I  bowed;  tihe  ladies  accepted  my  introduction;  and  signed  for 
me  to  sit  by  them  on  the  divan.  Then  they  were  silent,  except  for 
an  occasional  whisper  behind  the  masks  mounted  on  whips  which 
served  them  for  fans. 

One  woman  was  clad  in  a  wired  gown  of  tawn.  covered  with 
cadenzas  of  cinders.  Her  skin  was  entirely  the  color  of  Bodai- 
gold,  and  ^e  had  stained  green  eyebrows  in  the  midst  of  her 
forehead,  with  lips  to  match.  Her  actual  eyebrows  had  been 
plucked.  Her  hair,  I  recall,  was  elaborately  coiffured  and  em- 
bossed. 


The     Lit  tie    Review  33 


A  second  woman  was  tinted  a  livid  lilac.  Her  eyebrows  were 
vered  w'th  silver  lace  and  her  lips  were  pastoral  pink.  I  have 
rgotten  her  dress;  but  her  coiffure  was  elaborated  to  suggest  a 
lite  stag  at  rest,  with  rough  ambral  beads  for  hoofs,  and  tortoise 
mbs  for  antlers.    A  long  tasselled  pin  pierced  its  two  eyeballs. 

The  third  woman  in  the  group  was  notorious  for  her  lapses  of 
ste.  Once  she  had  worn  the  mouche  moqueuse  at  a  royal  baise- 
lin!  They  also  say  she  had  appeared  at  another  party  with  her 
ir  in  natural  black,  imitating  a  couching  cat;  and  this  was  thought 
have  been  rather  vulgar.  However,  the  other  women  made  a 
int  of  cultivating  her,  for  some  perverse  feminine  reason.  They 
mired  her  vitality,  and  called  her  a  very  good  friend. 

Tonight  her  skin  was  shaded  to  suggest  a  blend  of  the  Bar- 
rish  and  the  Cipangan  bloods.  It  was  most  tastefully  done; 
id  I  realized  that  one  of  her  friends  must  have  created  her  toilette, 
show  how  it  might  look  done  by  some  one  else.  Her  skirt  was 
t  in  five,  one  piece  of  which  was  caught  up,  revealing  a  morsel 
an  old-rose  bustle  filled  with  sachet,  and  then  wound  several 
nes  about  her  waist  as  a  bodice.  Her  hair  was  azalean.  She 
50  wore  a  female  ruby  as  a  mouche,  but  the  effect  was  not 
ppy. 

Before  I  had  completed  my  inspection,  the  music  began.  The 
chestra  was  entirely  concealed,  except  for  one  musician  so 
aced  that  he  seemed  to  create  all  the  music  himself.  He  sat 
gh  in  a  solitary  fretted  balcony  with  a  large  lyrichord;  and  by 
s  postures  he  endeavored  to  express  the  essence  of  the  melo- 
es.  In  this  he  was  somewhat  hampered  by  a  full-bottomed  wig 
lich  reached  below  his  wa'st  and  rather  smothered  him  in  its 
ridescent  powder.  La  Duchesse  told  me  the  next  week  that  it  had 
en  designed  after  the  scale  of  the  Attic  masks. 

The  hall  was  selectedly  filled  by  this  time  with  an  adequate 
imber  of  dancers.  Who  mingled  as  they  pleased.  Often  one  saw 
e  partners  of  two  men  leave  them  to  dance  with  each  other,  thus 
rcing  the  two  men  by  the  laws  of  etiquette  to  dance  together. 

But  the  dances  themselves  were  a  novelty,  for  by  a  tacit  con- 

■nt   the  entire  company  had  abandoned  dancing  the  dances  to 

eir  proper  melodies,  as  being  rather  obvious.     So,  when  a  Sara- 

mde  was  sounded,  a  nervous  Courante  fluttered  'through  the  hall; 

the  tune  of  a  Pavane  was  danced  a  Gavotte.    Yet  the  dancers 


34  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


kept  time  to  the  music  with  a  curious  perfection,  and  the  ladies 
feigned  to  shudder  with  neurosis  at  the  effervescent  cross-rhythms. 

As  I  whirled  about,  the  sight  was  exquisitely  excessive.  Coif- 
fures glided  past  with  an  irritating  persistence,  in  crowds  of  animalss, 
bouquets,  architectural  fragments,  fruits,  cooked  meats,  ecclesiasti- 
cal ornaments,  theatres,  legends.  One  lady's  chevelure  was  tressed 
to  suggest  a  sleeping  babe ;  it  was  said  she  felt  about  to  be  converted 
or  to  fall  in  love.  Another's  was  as  her  own  salon,  with  her 
page  represented  therein  of  wax.  Another's  was  hung  with  seashells, 
anotiher's  with  jungle-ibeasts,  another's  with  cameos. 

By  this  time  supper  was  served  in  the  Artificial  Garden.  First 
we  had  Frozen  Fire  enamelled  with  fig,  and  coffee  flavored  with 
vanilla,  then  a  blue  ridendive  wine  and  ocelled  cakes.  Next  spatted 
satyrs  swagged  in  with  a  huge  Han  pottery.  When  they  lifted  the 
faded  mountainous  lid,  thousands  of  live  oyster-crabs  appeared, 
scrambling  out  and  hastening  in  all  directions.  Each  one  had 
a  Persian  scene  painted  on  his  back.  It  was  very  amusing  to 
catch  and  eat  them;  and  the  confusion  of  the  ladies  was  delicious. 
Many  of  the  crabs  drowned  themselves  in  the  wine.  Some  were 
found  later  concealed  in  snuffboxes,  pantoufles,  and  the  cartouches 
Others  crawled  up  the  candles;  but  there  (alas!)  they  met  a  flaming 
death  instead  of  the  curtained  aqueous  life  they  sought. 

After  this  course,  there  was  a  pause,  during  which  three  pow- 
dered pages  carried  about  a  large  funereal  urn  in  silence.  Nont 
understood  this  save  one  old  lady  frilled  in  cockatoo-grey  and  mon- 
key-green, who  told  everybody  that  it  was  an  antique  custom  ou 
of  Egypt.  • 

Now  we  were  ready  for  the  last  course.  This  proved  to  b< 
dishes  of  dwarfed  peacocks  chained  to  their  perches.  Their  tail; 
had  been  plucked  out  and  bunches  of  natural  grapes  hung  there 
It  was  a  very  pleasant  conceit  to  gather  these  grapes  from  the 
living  birds.  Their  tongues  had  been  cut  out  and  silver  whistles 
thrust  down  their  throats,  so  that  they  made  a  most  melodious 
frisson  during  the  entire  course. 

To  this  music,  acrobats  depicted  a  pretty  story. 

After  supper  I  felt  fatigued  of  dancing,  so  T  wandered  to  thf 
gaming  room,  where  there  was  some  gambling  in  masks.  But  ir 
the  obscurer  half  of  the  hall  they  were  frolicking.  They  wer< 
playing  La  Balan^oire,  La  Seringue,  Hop  o'  me  Thumb,  Taste  and 


The    Little    Review  35 

le,  London  Bridge,  and  anyliiing  else  they  could  remember. 
intered  into  the  circle  of  L 'Indifferent,  and  enjoyed  myself  lustily 
the  fruitless  efforts  of  the  ladies.  I  was  actually  about  to  be 
jptered  as  King,  when  sudden  arpeggios  of  rockets  announced 
nething  unusual.  All  the  games  stopped  at  once  in  the  ex- 
ement. 

But  the  Dutch  cavalry  had  not  been  captured,  neither  had  the 
)eotian  fleet  broken  through.  La  Duchesse  (eccentric  as  everl) 
d  decided  to  return,  and  thus  it  was  that  she  anno.unced  her 
rival.  Her  cruelties,  as  I  have  said,  are  rare,  but  she  likes  their 
vor. 

Immediately  the  party  shattered.  Half  the  dancers  fled  without 
aise  or  chariot,  so  much  they  feared  her.  I  would  have  stayed, 
It  that  I  knew  a  mood  was  on  her.  Moreover  the  dawn  was  in  full 
oir. 

I  lingered  long  enough  to  get  my  cape  and  cane,  to  rescue  a 
rig  of  decoration,  and  to  look  for  a  lady  that  had  pleased  me; 
It  I  was  too  late,  and  all  by  myself  I  stepped  through  an  irregular 
stern  into  the  inelegant  dawn. 

Within  I  could  hear  la  Duchesse's  stilted  slippers  on  the 
jselation. 

INVENTIONS 
Louis  Gilmore 
The    Moon 

The  moon  goes  about 
With  a  diminished 
Fascination  ... 

How  sad  to  grow  old. 
Even  of  Pierrot 
And  of  too  frequent  kissing 
Of  Endymion! 


s6  Thg    Little    Review 


POETIC    PIECES 

Marsden  Hartley 
The    Ivory    Woman 

Upon  the  etagere  of  her  quaint  mind  she  was  fond 

Of  arranging  the  bijouteries  of  her  queer  fancies 

like  gems  sheathed  with  glass. 

She  would  take  them  out  and  play  with  them, 

As  a  magpie  plays  with  bits  of  odd  trinkets  he  had  gathered 

In  the  boudoirs  of  harlots  and  ladies  of  a  quieter  leisure. 

She  thought  it  charming  to  think  and  speak  of  her  most 

Delicate  vices  in  the  presence  of  square  shouldered 

Lusty  men,  men  of  thick  necks  and  thighs,  and  upper  arms, 

Men  whose  jaws  and  forheads  are  like  stone  walls. 

And  prison  gates  of  steel. 

It  was  her  intense  passion  to  slide  and  slink  about 

Noiselessly, 

Just  as  a  worm  would  creep  about  on  its  way, 

Upon  its  many  softly  cushioned  feet, 

In  through  the  petals  of  a  rosebud. 

Her  vices  were  the  rarest  and  the  oldest  among  the  many 

Varieties  that  are  still  the  pastime  of  all  sorts 

Of  handsome  men  and  women. 

She  shuddered  with  violent  and  delicious  pain  if  a  brute 

Spoke  to  her,  no  matter  what  he  said. 

It  was  her  high  orgy  to  hear  his  voice  thunder  about 

Her  frail  body,  white  and  waxlike,  absorbed  in  a  cool 

And  almost  imperceptible  hysteria 

From  which  rose  her  rarest  ecstasies. 

What  cannons  and  thunder  are  to  virile  ones, 

The  loud  champing  of  hoofs  on  the  pavement,   the  ciicl 

Of  starry  spurs  on  strong  leather  covered  legs, 

The  mere  biting  of  a  white  lip. 

The  clicking  of  a  fingernail  on  a  marble  vase, 

Were  the  sharp  intensities  that  gave  her  what  she  called 

Her  thrill, 


T  he    Little    Review  27 

And  the  uncommon  cadences  in  tlie  voices  of  tlie  varied  men 

And  women,  were  the  unfelt  nuances  which  for  her  have  been 

Neglected  in  the  true  structure  of  music. 

They  were  her  bells  and  brasses  and  woodwinds; 

The  things  just  hinted  at,  or  just  whispered,  were  bedlam 

To  her  attenuated  imagination. 

They  set  her,  as  she  would  say, 

Deliciously  frantic. 

The  rumble  of  rich  male  throats  sent  her 

Tingling  to  her  toes,  and  the  sight  of  frail  girls 

Affected  her  sense  oddly  ' 

It  was  all  so  pictorial  to  her; 

It  was  the,  so  to  say,  muscular  reaction 

Of  her  highly  tinted  imagination. 

She  liked  big  hands  in  her  ha:r,  and  she  liked 

The  graze  of  liAgertips  upon  her  wrists  and  ankles 

And  throat. 

She  was  a  very  simple  little  girl, 

And  in  her  delicate  ways  she  had  a  touch 

Of  the  imperishable  beauty. 

She  was,  in  truth,  she  always  wanted  to  say, 

Such  a  woman  !  ! 

Sunbather 

Clutch  at  me,  rock  saurian! 
Upon  your  spines  my  flesh  settles  avidly 
As  best  it  can,  bearing  up  the  little  shafts 
Of  pain,  as  one  does  when  lips  and  hands 
Overtake  one  with  their  avarice; 
When  I  set  my  breast  to  your  back 
And  watched  the  great  swell  dash  itself 
Against  your  hairy  flank,  I  said  in  soliloquy, 
I  would  be  the  sea  that  laves  you  with  salt 
I  would  be  the  swirl  that  glides  over  your  claws 
With  a  savage  excellence,    I  would  be  the  sun 
Thait  heats  us  all  to  one  vastiness,  void  of  mercy; 
I  would  .have  all  things  hold  me  down  with  pain 


aS  The     Little     Review 


As  deliciously  as  you  do  with  your  spine. 

Impaling  my  ribflesh,  press'ng  my  rib. 

Pressing  the  sense  to  its  height, 

My  feet  on  the  salt  hair  of  your  flank. 

And  of  your  jungle-like  breast; 

If  you  have  eyes  then  surely  must  you  see 

How  the  mussels  gloat  upon  your  crev.'ces 

Among  the  stony  furrows  of  your  ribs. 

They  cling  there  with  a  stillness 

The  sea  knows  nothing  of  save  where  her  bosom 

Is  at  peace  in  the  chasms  of  your  mother's  valleys. 

When  I  left  your  back,  dried  my  tanned  flesh. 

And  went  home  to  the  sound 

Of  the  conchshell,  I  said 

"Beasts  —  What  an  hour!"  ' 


THE    YELLOW    GOAT 
Ben    Hecht 

THE  GRAVE  melodious  shout  of  rain  filled  the  night.  Tb 
streets  had  become  like  dark  and  attenuated  pools.  Thi 
rain  falling  illuminated  the  hidden  faces  of  the  buildings  and  tb 
air  was  silvered  with  whirling  lines.  Through  the  sparkle  and  funi' 
of  the  rain-colored  night  the  lights  of  the  cafe  signs  burned  liki 
golden-lettered  banners  flung  stiffly  into  the  storm.  About  the& 
lights  floated  patches  of  yellow  mist  through  which  the  rain  swarme< 
in  flurries  of  little  gleaming  moths.  Tihere  were  also  the  lights  o 
the  doors  and  windows  beneath  the  burning  signs.  They  too  exihale< 
oblongs  of  yellow  steam  upon  the  darkness.  The  r^nainder  of  th< 
street  was  lost  in  a  wilderness  of  rain  that  bubbled  and  raced  ovei 
its  stone  in  an  endless  and  bewildering  detonation. 

I  had  been  in  this  street  before  and  I  knew  it  for  a  street  Oi 
little  grimy-fronted  cafe  and  vicious  haunts — crude  and  rocoa 
gathering  places  for  niggers,  prostitutes  and  louts.  But  now  as  1 
walked  with  my  shoes  spurting  water  and  the  rain  hanging  from  m>l 
clothes,  there  was  about  this  street  a  curious  unfamiliarity.     Th< 


I 


The    Little    Review  29 


uming  motionless  rain  filled  the  air  with  a  mysterious  presence, 
k^neath  my  feet  ran  the  silver-tipped  pool  of  the  flooded  pavement. 
;ieaming  in  its  rain-splintered  depths  swam  the  reflections  of  the 
turning  lamps  overhead.  These,  as  I  walked,  were  the  ydlow  script 
>f  another  and  wraith-like  world  staring  up  at  me  out  of  nowhere. 
Phe  rest  was  darkness  and  billowy  stripes  of  water. 

I  hurried  on  as  the  sound  of  thunder  crawled  out  of  the  sky. 
^  vein  of  lightning  opened  the  night  and  in  the  sudden  blue  pallor 
he  street  and  its  buildings  etched  themselves  on  the  vanishing  light 
—a  monstrous  and  phosphorescent  world.  The  rain  flung  itself 
or  an  instant  in  great  opalescent  sheets  out  of  the  lighted  spaces. 

caught  a  glimpse  of  a  figure  in  the  distance,  hunched  and  station- 
try.    The  darkness  and  the  desolate  whirl  of  the  rain  resimied  and 

walked  on  staring  as  after  something  vanished.  A  wind  now  en- 
ered  the  street,  outlining  itself  in  the. wild  undulations  of  'the  rain 
)n  the  pavements.  Clandestine  notions  held  rendezvous  in  my  thought 
IS  I  pressed  forward  against  the  storm.  Decidedly  the  street  had 
m  unfamiliar  air  and  was  full  of  dishevelled  rain  ghosts.'  The  best 
)f  philosophers  become  wet  in  the  rain.  The  roar  of  the  flooded 
light,  the  leap  and  hollow  blaze  of  the  lightning,  the  sudden  inani- 
nate  burst  of  pale  violet  outline  in  the  chaotic  dark,  were  things 
vhich  seemingly  isolated  me  from  the  normal  contemplations  which 
ire  my  habit.  I  began  to  fancy  myself,  in  this  dilapidated  storm- 
idden  street,  as  some  tiny  wanderer  'through  a  strange  and.  tortuous 
vorld. 

The  little  windows  that  trickled  their  yellow  lights  toward  me 
ieemed  the  glowing  pasteboards  of  some  forgotten  illusion.  What 
ivith  the  stumble  of  thunder  in  the  dark  and  the  tenacious  lash  of 
the  rain,  a  burn  had  come  into  my  body.    I  was  moving  prosaically 

nough  toward  the  house  of  a  friend.  He  had  offered  for  my  inspec- 
tion several  manuscripts  purchased  that  day  and  scrawled  with 
diverting  cryptograms.  In  a  pocket  tucked  dry  and  safe  out  of 
the  wet  I  was  carrying  the  work  of  a  profound  Englishman  who 
bad  devoted  his  life  to  the  unraveling  of  cryptograms.  But  now 
the  churning  of  the  wind  and  rain,  the  noise  and  the  phosphorescent 
gulfs  of  light  into  which  I  was  continually  plunging,  had  brought 
me  an  intoxication  in  which  manuscripts  and  friends  and  crypto- 
grams seemed  miserable  things.  I  drew  in  with  gulps  the  quickening 
odor  of  the  storm  —  the  spice  of  water-laden  winds.    I  had  felt  at 


30  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

first  a  proper  regard  for  my  clothes,  a  philosophical  emotion  which 
had  gradually  given  way  to  relish  of  the  storm.  This  in  turn,  as  I 
moved  on  leaning  against  the  wind  and  the  pliant  walls  of  water," 
was  succeeded  by  an  elation  groundless  and  insane.  The  little  ad- 
jectives I  had  been  arranging  for  my  lonely  delight  were  seized  by 
an  incoherence.  I  began  to  ponder  upon  violent  abstractions,  and 
the  thought  of  the  routine  ways  of  life  became  to  me  unbearable.  The 
innumerable  little  meditations  with  which  I  usually  beguile  my  soli- 
tary journeys  offended  this  new  reach  of  my  spirit.  I  went  plung- 
ing on,  soaked  and  disheveled,  curbing  a  desire  to  shout  and  dash 
about. 

Moving  thus  through  the  storm  my  thought  became  full  of 
the  tremblings  of  a  dancer  stiffened  by  the  beat  of  furious  music. 
What  were  not  possible?  Strange,  irrational  expectations  left  me 
smiling  faintly.  But  the  wild  dance  of  the  wind,  the  halloo  of 
the  night  and  the  vast  burst  of  water  about  me  urged  me  on  despite 
this  snobbery  with  which  all  good  logicians  regard  their  emotions. 
How  gladly  we  surrender  our  treasured  philosophies  at  the  first  touch 
of  ecstasy.  Where  and  of  what  avail  were  tihe  intrigues  of  reason 
in  the  hammering  of  night  like  this  —  a  night  for  poets  and  mystics, 
true  fellows  of  all  storms.  What  strange  altar  fires  were  those  en- 
gulfing flickers  of  -dead  moonlight?  A  racket  of  what  Gods  were 
those  bounding  sounds?  Thus  my  thought  continued  to  spurn  the 
little  tracks  of  reason  and  circle  in  the  profound  and  mystic  abstrac- 
tion of  the  wanderer  in  storms. 

The  night  was  grow'ng  wilder.  My  eyes  straining  toward 
unimagined  things  bored  into  the  vapors  and  steam  of  the  rain. 
Whereon  a  blinding  gust  of  light  brought  me  shuddering  to  a  halt. 
The  thunder  filled  the  night  suddenly  with  an  amazing  tumult,  hor- 
ror of  sound,  and  I  remained  stiff  and  staring  as  in  a  dream  at  a 
face  that  floated  in  a  piercing  I'ght.  I  stood  as  one  suspended  in 
the  rushing  of  winds.  The  world,  but  for  this  face  which  con- 
fronted me,  had  vanished.  I  saw  it  to  be  the  face  of  a  woman  con- 
torted into  a  stark  and  indescribable  grimace  of  rapture.  Its  eyes 
gleamed  like  black  and  lavender  tips  of  flame.  Its  teeth  stood  out 
white  and  skull-like  against  the  red  of  an  opened  mouth.  I  was 
aware  of  a  sound  of  laughter  that  seemed  to  come  floating  out  of 
the  roaring  spaces  about  me. 

A  silence  and  darkness  seized  the  world.     I  stood  listening  to 


The    Little    Review  3^ 


1  melodious  detonations  of  the  rain  and  the  harmless  sweep  of  the 

lid     Over  my  head  burned  a  cafe  sign  and  I  was  gazing  into  a 

uhed  and  emptied  panel  of  glass.     Within  I  saw  figures  jerking 

.ut  in  a  dance  and  an  orchestra  of  niggers  playing.    The  yellow 

ipt  overhead  proclaimed  me  in  the  presence  of  the  Yellow  Goat. 

In  the  home  of  my  friend  it  was  quiet  and  cheerful.    Outside 

i   rain  chattered  in  the  darkness  and  the  alto  of  the  wind  arose 

ilong  organ  notes  from  the  houses.    We  sat  and  smoked  and  ex- 

■)n-ed  elaborate  phrases.    But  my  eyes  had  evidently  been  affected 

1  t)H^  lightning.    When  I  closed  them  they  still  revealed  to  me  the 

tant  of  piercing  light  and  the  face  floating  under  the  sign  of  the 

How  Goat.     Seen  thus  in  memory  there  was  an  irritating  famili- 

ty  about  its  features.    I  had  not  intended  to,  but  I  found  myself 

er  several  moments  telling  my  friend  of  the  incident.  _   I  spoke 

th  a  great  show  of  incorruptable  logic  of  the  thing,  pointing  out 

it  what  I  had  seen  had  been  undoubtedly  the  face  of  an  uncom- 

)nly  beautiful  prostitute   surprised   in   a  yawn  by  the  gulp  of 

htning.      But   my   friend   is   a   creature   given   to  j^fl^^ng   ^ast 

d  melodramatic  riddles  out  of  such  phenomena,  and  he  differed 

th  me.  ,  -  ,         .,_,         ,„ 

'•Stuff  and  nonsence,"     I  finally  interrupted  him.       If  you  11 

)p  quoting  the  Cabala  and  cease  your  chattering  about  Sabbats 

d  witches  I'll  discuss  the  thing  with  you  as  befits  two  civilized 

'n  " 

He  stared  with  a  faint  smile  at  his  shelves  of  books  that  like 
ratic  and  colored  teeth  stood  out  from  the  wall. 

I  resumed  "There  was  the  face  of  a  dancer  whom  I  watched 
le  evening  on  the  stage.  I  remember  now  a  curious  gleam  m  her 
^es  and  recall  how  I  tried  vainly  to  fit  an  emotion  to  such  a  gleam, 
here  was  the  face  of  a  hatless  boy  running  through  the  streets  one 
inny  morning  who  bumped  into  me  and  dashed  on  without  begging 
y  pardon.  There  was  the  face  of  a  man  I  listened  to  once  as  he 
ayed  the  violin,  and  I  remember  too  the  face  of  a  woman  that  I 
'sitated  to  kiss.  Now  the  face  I  saw  in  the  lightning  reminded 
e  of  all  these  faces  and  of  some  others  I  have  forgotten.  You 
now  about  faces  there  is  often  something  cunous.  These  faces 
now  remember  possessed  an  identical  contortion,  an  identical  ar- 
mgement  of  features  and  somehow  an  expression  identical  to  the 
tie  I  have  just  told  you  of.     Stark  and  unhuman.    A  furious  and 


32  The    Little    Review 


repulsive  loveliness.  It  was  gone  in  an  instant.  But  I  saw  it  s 
vividly  that  I  see  it  now  when  I  close  my  eyes  ....  an  insufferabi 
gesture  thrust  out  of  the  lightning.  The  faces  of  which  I  am  n 
minded  were  not  so  definite.  But  they  had  the  same  light  aboi 
them." 

"I  know  the  light  you  mean,"  said  my  friend.  "I've  noted  ^ 
mysdf.  If  you  watch  closely  you  will  catch  an  instant  of  it  no' 
and  then  shining  through  Ihie  grimace  of  a  dancer  or  of  a  man  laugl; 
ing,  or,  as  you  say,  playing  the  violin."  He  paused  and  his  face  ht 
came  full  of  a  curious  sincerity.  "Or  of  a  woman  in  passion.  Ye; 
I  know  what  you  mean.  Dark  and  violent  legends  have  been  wril 
ten  about  this  light,  for  it  has  always  been  in  the  world  and  ye 
seemingly  not  of  it.     In  demonology  .  .  .  .  " 

Again  I  offered  interruption.  "Let  us  not  talk  of  demonologj 
Inasmuch  as  a  demon  is  something  which  must  by  logic  be  somethin 
unimaginable  any  adjectives  we  may  arrange  concerning  it  will  b 
crude  and  futile.  What  I  saw  in  the  face  in  the  storm  I've  seen  hi 
fore  and  in  places  without  storm.  I've  put  it  down  as  a  maniaca 
gleam,  the  indication  of  a  fugitive  disorder  of  the  brain.  I've  notice 
vaguely  that  the  expression  is  somehow  connected  with  people  ii 
moments  of  inspiration.  I  recall  a  young  poet  I  knew.  His  star 
at  times  became  like  a  wild  laugh  out  of  which  mirth  has  passei 
and  which  has  become  full  of  something  else.  This  phrase  vastl; 
exaggerated  would  describe  the  expression  of  the  features  I  looke< 
at  tonight  ..." 

I  left  my  friend  with  the  emotion  of  a  man  who  has  offenda 
his  own  intelligence.  This  babbling  over  the  face  of  a  prostitut 
passed  in  the  rain  appealed  to  me  as  the  vaporings  of  a  weakene( 
brain.  Yet  it  pursued  me.  I  found  myself  excitedly  searching  ii 
the  faces  of  the  little  half  dead  who  swarmed  the  streets,  who  rodt 
in  cars,  who  sat  in  restaurants.  There  were  impressions  I  couk 
not  shake  off  by  assuring  myself  of  an  innate  idiocy.  And  therefon 
three  nights  later  I  jammed  a  cap  over  my  ears  and  with  the  collai 
of  my  mackintosh  properly  raised  I  launched  myself  into  anothei 
night  lashed  with  wind  and  rain  in  quest  of  the  Yellow  Goat. 

I  was  curiously  nervous  as  I  turned  into  the  street  of  the  grimy- 
fronted  cafes.  Here  was  again  halloo  of  that  other  night,  the  golden- 
lettered  street  signs  adrift  in  the  storm,  the  vast  wash  of  water  il- 
Itmiinating  the  dark  with  its  fugitive  glint,  the  boiling  pavements 


The    Little    Review  33 

and  the  odor  of  wet  winds.  I  pressed  on  hoping  for  the  lightning  and 
the  thunder.  For,  I  assured  myself,  the  quest  demanded  a  certain 
footlighting  to  be  real,  and  off-stage  noises.  But  the  darkness,  swol- 
len with  rain  and  wind,  remained  unrelieved  and  thus  the  morbid 
sanity  of  my  true  philosophical  nature  arose  in  my  thought  to  con- 
fuse me  and  to  prepare  me  for  disillusions.  I  would  find  no  such 
face.  In  fact  the  face  did  not  exist.  It  had  been  the  trick  of  light- 
ning and  jumbled  nerves.  And  those  other  faces  which  I  so  oblig- 
ingly remembered  —  auxiliary  hallucinations  all  of  them.  In  any, 
event  promenading  on  a  night  like  this  savored  of  idiocy,  face  or  no 
face.  The  quest  of  mysteries  indeed  !  The  urge  of  spiritual  hun- 
gers, to  be  sure!  Behold  a  solemn  ass  wallking,  as  was  his  privilege, 
through  a  pneumonia-ibreeding  deluge  .  . 

The  wind  bayed  through  the  streets  and  the  rain  enveloped  me 
in  its  monotonous  rush.  Staring  ahead  I  saw  gleaming  in  a  little 
floating  oasis  of  bright  mist  the  sign  of  the  Yellow  Goat.  There  was 
magic  in  the  sign.  The  promptings  of  sanity  fled  my  thoughl;  and 
an  exultation  tangled  my  legs.  After  all  there  were  destinations  in 
the  city.  There  were  the  veils  of  Isis  still,  and  the  piles  of  stone 
that  little  hands  reared  had  not  lost  their  cunning  to  conceal  un- 
imaginable mysteries.  I  paused  before  the  entrance  of  'the  Yellow 
Goat  as  the  .streaming  door  swung  open  and  two  figures  darted  out. 
They  were  by  me  and  gone  in  an  instant  and,  as  if  in  pursuit  of 
them,  rushed  a  rollicking  lurch  of  sound.  Into  the  night  floated  a 
strain  of  music  and  the  laugh  of  a  woman. 

I  entered  the  Yellow  Goat  and  the  night  vanished  behind  me. 
I  was  suddenly  in  a  strange  world  of  lights  and  shouts  and  odors. 
Dancing  bodies  spun  and  jerked  among  the  tables.  Faces  bounced 
amid  layers  of  tobacco  smoke  that  lay  in  undulent  lavender  sheets 
above  the  floor.  Through  streaks  of  color  and  movement  came  the 
bray  of  music  —  a  melody  leaping  between  the  smash  of  trom- 
bones and  the  bursting  staccato  of  drums.  Five  niggers  with  faces 
satin  black  were  swaying  over  silver  instruments  and  shouting  as 
they  played.  Among  the  round-topped  table  the  revels  and  contor- 
tions of  the  dancers  threatened  to  annihilate  all  furniture.  A  waiter 
passed  in  front  of  me  balancing  a  black  tray  laden  with  colored 
glasses.  At  the  tables  sat  men  and  women  with  faces  that  seemed 
somehow  out  of  focus,  niggers,  prostitutes,  louts.  The  slant  of  red 
mouths  opened  with  laughter,  the  movement  of  eyes  and  hands  and 


34  The    Little     Review 

white  throats  of  women,  —  these  I  saw  as  fragments  through  a  mist. 
I  moved  through  the  halloo  of  the  room  toward  k  table  that  seemed 
to  me  empty.  The  reek  of  wine  and  steaming  cloths,  the  sting  of 
perspiring  perfumes,  the  bedroom  odors  of  women's  bodies  dizzied 
me  as  I  dropped  into  a  chair  at  this  table. 

Opposite  me  sat  a  woman  with  a  face  cut  out  of  scarlet,  white 
and  favender  cardboards.  Her  head  was  thrown  back  in  a  grimace 
of  violent  laughter.  The  red  flesh  of  her  opened  mouth  and  throat 
stared  at  me  behind  the  roll  of  sound  that  issued.  I  was  conscious 
for  the  moment  of  being  embraced  by  soft  arms  and  I  felt  the  hot 
and  opened  mouth  pressing  almost  on  my  face.  About  me  men  were 
banging  glasses  on  the  table  and  women  were  screaming  laughters. 
To  the  music  of  the  five  shouting  niggers  couples  were  making  fe- 
verish gestures  with  their  bodies  against  the  roar  and  haze  of  the 
room.  The  faces  of  drunken  niggers,  prostitutes  and  louts  hung  in 
the  odor  and  smoke.  I  sat  silent  like  some  bewildered  and  forbid- 
ding stranger,  wondering  how  this  woman  had  appeared  so  abruptly 
opposite  me.  I  was  in  these  first  moments  walking  again  through 
the  storm  and  beholding  in  a  gulp  of  lightning  the  strange  features 
of  a  woman  behind  the  door  of  the  Yellow  Goat. 

The  music  of  the  five  niggers  stopped  and  a  sudden  emptiness 
flooded  the  room.  The  confusion  became  a  matter  of  men's  and 
women's  voices  and  scurrying  waiters.  The  woman  opposite  me 
alone  remained  unchanged.  She  was  gazing  at  me  with  eyes  in 
whose  swarthy  depths  moved  tiny  streaks  of  scarlet  that  were  like 
wavering  flame  tips.  Beneath  her  eyes  her  skin  was  darkened  as 
if  by  bruises.  A  peculiarly  sultry  light  glowed  over  their  heavy 
discolorations.  Her  mouth  had  shut  and  her  cheeks  were  without 
curves,  following  the  corpse  like  lines  of  her  skull.  They  were  paper 
white,  but  again  I  noted  in  them  the  curious  sultry  glow  of  her 
smeared  and  heavy  eyes.  Her  lips  were  like  the  streaks  of  ver- 
milion laquer  painted  on  an  idol's  face.  She  had  thrust  two  bared 
arms  across  the  table  top  and  was  leaning  forward.  She  was  regard- 
ing me  with  a  smile. 

To  this  extent  am  I  able  to  describe  her.  The  face  of  a  malignant 
pierrette  or  of  a  diabolic  clown,  stark  and  illumined  as  under  some 
strong  lavender  ray;  the  gleaming  and  putrescent  eyes  haloed  in 
a  gelatinous  mist,  full  of  reptilian  sorcery.  These  are  simple  things 
to  recount.    But  these  were  merely  the  mask  for  a  bewildering  thing 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  35 

which  held  me  silent  in  a  strange  inertia.  This  thing  hovered  be- 
tween us  like  a  third  person.  It  was  an  animation  creating  waves 
in  the  air  that  were  neither  of  light  nor  of  sound.  My  thought  grew 
d'm  and,  during  these  moments  that  I  sat  returning  her  smile,  an 
almost  unbearable  lust  cried  in  my  blood. 

We  arose  and  walked  arm  and  arm  out  of  the  Yellow  Goat 
into  the  night  and  r^in.  I  was  aware  of  faces  turned  toward  m.e 
as  we  passed  among  the  tables  but  they  seemed  the  fragments  of  a 
foreign  world.  In  the  rain  her  body  breathed  against  me,  warming 
me  with  its  hot  flesh.  My  thought  became  like  an  echo  forever  es- 
caping me.    The  woman  tugged  at  my  arm. 

"Run,  Run,"  she  cried.  She  threw  her  head  back  and  filled  the 
n'ght  with  her  laugh.    We  ran. 

We  came  breiathless  up  a  flight  of  stairs  into  a  room  lighted 
with  a  gas  jet.  The  heavy  sulphurous  scent  of  tube  roses  stuffed 
the  place  but  I  could  make  out  no  flowers.  I  stood  against  the  door 
we  had  entered.  The  woman's  clothes  had  fallen  from  her  as  if 
blown  from  her  body  by  a  strong  wind.  Nude  but  for  the  black 
silken  stockings  she  had  not  removed  she  turned  toward  me.  Her 
white  skin  glistened  with  moisture  and  was  covered  in  places  with 
the  faint  colors  of  stained  glass.  She  began  to  dance  and  throw  her 
arms  about  and  her  mouth  opened  in  a  riveted  laugh.  The  room 
became  saturated  with  jher.  She  swept  by  me  plunging  about  in 
her  dance,  posturing  and  shouting.  The  gleam  of  her  eyes  buried 
itself  in  my  brain  and  left  me  crazed  with  desire  for  her. 

It  was  this  gleam  and  the  rapturous  grimacings  of  her  face 
that  awakened  my  thought.  I  recalled  as  from  a  distance  ithat  I  bad 
come  in  quest  of  something.  This  thing  I  saw  now  in  iher  face  as 
she  tumbled  about  the  malodorous  room.  It  expressed  torture.  I 
had  seen  this  light  that  burned  from  her,  this  curious  contortion  of 
feature  in  the  faces  of  the  c'ty.  now  for  an  instant  in  the  inspiration 
of  a  dancer,  now  in  the  midst  of  a  violin's  wonder,  now  in  the  joy 
of  a  woman  laughing.  I  had  never  seen  it  as  I  saw  it  now,  but  al- 
ways as  a  fugitive  and  'lunatic  light  that  fixed  itself  upon  the  air 
after  it  had  vanished  from  the  eyes  of  men  and  woman.  Here  was 
this  light  in  a  nudity  more  intimate  than  the  shine  and  odor  of  her 
body's  flesh. 

She  had  ceased  her  dancing  and  thrown  herself  upon  the 
grimy  rumpled  surface  of  a  bed.  Her  laughter  also  had  ceased. 
She  lay  with  her  arms  extended  toward  me,  her  nakedness  moving 


36  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

faintly  like  some  thick  white  and  undulant  reptile.  I  saw  that  her 
eyes  were  closed  but  that  there  was  nevertheless  aibout  her  tiie  stare 
of  a  terrible  vision.  A  moan  began  to  come  from  her  and  her  fingers 
like  claws  scratched  at  the  air.  Her  moving  and  the  odors  arising 
from  her  grew  unendurable.  I  opened  the  door  softly  and  ran.  Pur- 
suing me  came  the  sound  of  laughter,  rising  in  a  howl. 

Outside  it  still  rained.  Tihe  wind  no  longer  blew.  I  hurried 
away  and  my  thought  so  long  tangled  in  emotion  began  to  unwind 
itself. 

"She  is  a  disease,"  I  murmured  to  myself,  "Her  flesh  is  insane. 
She  is  the  secret  of  ecstasy  and  of  Gods  and  of  all  things  that  are 
beautiful." 

About  my  feet  the  whirling  lines  of  the  rain  burst  upon  the  pave- 
ment forming  innumerable  little  vs.  In  the  proper  course  of  time 
I  would  fashion  adjectives  out  of  the 'thing  the  woman  of  the  Yel- 
low Goat  had  revealed  to  me  and  thus  perhaps  add  to  the  progress 
of  my  race.  But  now  there  drifted  before  me  a  white-torsoed  phan- 
tom and  in  my  nose  there  remained  the  hot  smell  of  a  decay. 

Autoepitaph 

I  have  played  always 
Myself 

^        And  played  myself 
Not  always 
Perfectly  ... 

Is  it  enough  for  the  exclamation 

At  the  end: 

Qualis  artifex  pereo!  '        J, 


The    Little    Review  •       37 

THE   LAMENT  OF  WOMEN 
Djuna    Barnes 


Ah     My    God 


Ah  my  God,  what  is  it  that  we  love! 

This  flesh  laid  on  us  like  a'wrinkled  glove? 

Bones  caught  in  haste  from  out  some  lustful  bed, 

And  for  momentum,  this  a  devil's  shove. 

What  is  it  that  hurriedly  we  kiss, 

This  mouth  that  seeks  our  own,  or  still  more  this 

Small  sorry  eye  within  the  cheated  head, 

As  if  it  mourned  the  something  that  we  miss. 

This  pale,  this  over  eager  listening  ear 
The  wretched  mouth  its  soft  lament  to  hear,  — 
To  mark  the  noiseless  and  the  anguished  fall 
Of  still  one  other  warm  misshapen  tear. 

Short  arms,  and  bruised  feet  long  set  apart 
To  walk  with  us  forever  from  the  start. 
Ah  God,  is  this  the  reason  that  we  love  — 
Because  such  things  are  death  blows  to  the  heart? 


38  The    Little    Review 


To 


Another's  veins  are  set  within  my  days 
His  misery,  as  much  as  yours,  is  mine 
Yet  tell  me,  is  this  not  a  virgin's  gaze 
Held  fast  in  thine? 

I  turn  always  and  blow  the  candle's  flame 
Into  the  darkness,  dropping  down  my  tears. 
Striking  out  the  ending  of  the  game 
By  forty  years. 

And  in  the  darkness  hear  the  frightened  moan 
Of  him  half  wounded,  unidentified 
Some  one  unutterably   alone  — 
And  mystified. 

Nay  touch  me  not  too  tenderly  or  well 
For  I  have  words  to  every  man's  distress 
And  some  forgotten  ailing  hand  in  hell 
First  tore  this  dress. 

Always,   yea  always,   always  thus  with  me 
Another's  dust  shall  mix  here,  when  I  cease  — 
While  yours,  my  love,  a  thousand  years  shall  be 
Clotted  with  peace. 


Tht    Littlt    Review  39 


THE    IDEAL   QUARREL 

William    Carlos    Williams 

ANGER  spitting  through  a  mush  of  lumpy  stuff — ^mouldy  words, 
lie-clots  —  transforms  it  into  that  which  lets  a  world  beyond 
come  through,  before  that,  blocked  out.  But  that  is  only  the  begin- 
ning. By  anger  I  mean  outraged  justice  of  position  wrathfully  de- 
manding its  wavering  complement  —  on  the  brink  of  a  new 
alignment:  righteous  wrath. 

This  implies  one  in  the  right:  counter:  one  manifestly  and 
frankly  in  the  wrong:  bold  lies.  This  implies  a  dissolving  imion. 
This  means  a  furtlier  dissolution  ending  in  complete  separation,  in- 
volving a  rebeginning  or  it  means  a  reunion  between  the  severing 
parts  . 

The  nature  of  this  reunion  is  the  end  toward  which  I  attack. 
It  is,  as  I  take  it,  something  as  virginal,  as  completely  pristine  as 
any  fresh  choice,  any  new  alignment  can  be.  More  new!  The 
only  newl 

For  to  break  and  begin  a  new  alignment  is  recapitulation  but 
to  recement  an  old  and  dissolving  union  is  without  precedent,  a 
totally  new  thing.  The  old  union  in  this  case  is  a  part  of  the  new 
and  being  directly  a  part  needs  no  counterpart,  the  recemented 
union  being  ready  at  birth  to  go  forward.  Every  part  of  a  changed 
alignment  is  a  counterpart  of  the  dead  old. 

This  is  hard  but  important. 

A  dawdling  complement  struck  full-face  is  split  —  a  shell  of 
words  scaled  off.  The  face  comes  from  behind  its  mask.  The  mask 
is  smooth  coin:  —  slimed  their  water,  fish  dung,  a  stinking,  soupy 
liquid,  endearing  terms,  bare  hands  on  — ,  in  bed  at  night,  the 
children,  dirt  under  the  piano,  systematic,  get  up  earlier,  the  dishes, 
smell  of  cooking,  sweetheart,  darling,  dearest,  pimples  on  your  back, 
your  breath  smells,  your  thighs  are  not  — ,  you  are  cold,  I  am  tired 
tonight,  I  feel  lively  tonight,  your  kind  of  man,  what  a  fool  I  was, 
our  whole  married  life,  I  thought  I  was  marrying  a — ,  Undank  tst 
der  Weltlohn,  coward,  self,  the  selfish  get  the  best  in  this  world  (of 
course)  I  am  not  young  now  —  Flash! 

Anger  will  recreate  a  world.  The  white  bayonette  of  anger  is: 
I  demand.    But  lies  and  deeper  lies  are  the  spawn  of  action.    Filth 


40  T he    Lit  tie    Review 

breeds.     The  white  flash  of  justice  is  eggs  split  by  an  edged  flame. 
Justice  lives  on  lies:  a  buck-pike  that  eats  its  own  spawn. 

The  birth  is  in  a  nest  of  dead  words  slimed  over:  soft  down  to 
the  mother's  breast. 

Action  brings  good.  Action  upon  an  old  act  brings  a  splitting 
from  the  end  backward  to  the  beginning  so  that  the  cleanliness  re- 
sultant is  a  thing  opposite  to  nature,  an  inversion  of  whiteness  — 
Back  to  the  beginning. 

"I  thought  I  had  married  a  God"  to,  "I  demand  a  God"  is  a  stroke 
from  the  end  back  to  the  beginning  —  but  a  new  begiiming,  yet  rest- 
ing with  its  feet  on  the  neck  of  the  old,  crushing  the  old  imder  its 
feet  —  unearthly  —  this  is  the  actual  heaven  —  temples  fanned 
by  a  wind  moving  in  the  wind. 

But  ac-shun!  ac-shun!  ac-shun!  ac-shun!  It  is  a  steam- 
engine  getting  under  way:  the  result  is  a  lily  opening  upon  a  crow- 
bar stem.  Out  of  it  the  cleanliness  of  spring  air!  It  is  the  roots 
of  roots  we  desire!  the  flower  of  a  flower!  the  man  of  a  man!  the 
white  of  white  —  From  the  beginning,  again!  Fourth  dimension 
—  well?  It  is  my  old  life.  I  hold  it  off.  I  have  rebegun.  Nothing 
of  the  old  remains  or  will  remain  —  after.    Halleluiah! 

I  hate  you!  Flame  will  be  tied  to  the  heels  of  love  in  no 
other  way. 

The  hard  backbite  of  anger  recurring  in  the  ebb  flow  is  sturdi- 
ness  holding  its  own. 

The    Week-end 
Louis   Gilmore 

Is  anything  more  tedious 
Than  a  blue  sky 
And  a  gravel-walk 
Between  trees 

Except  the  white 
Woman  at  my  side 
Who  is  pretending 
That  I  love  her! 


The    Little    Review  41 

Mefk    Maru    M  u  s  t  i  r    Daas 
Else  von  Freytag  von  Loringhoven 

The  sweet  corners  of  thine  tired  mouth       Mustir 

So  world-old  tired       tired  to  nobility 

To  more      to  shame       to  hatred  of  thineself 

So  noble  soul       so  weak,  a  body 

Thine  body  is  the  prey  of  mice 

And  every  day  the  corners  of  thine  tired  mouth     Mustir 
Grow  sweeter  helpless      sneer  the  more  despair 
And  bloody  pale-red  poison  foams  from  them 
At  every  noble  thing      to  kill  thine  soul 
Because  thine  body  is  the  prey  of  mice 
And  dies  so  slowly 

So  noble  is  thine  tired  soul       Mustir 

She  cannot  help  to  mourn  out  of  thine  eyes 

Thine  eyelids      nostrils      pallor  of  th'ne  cheek 

To  mourn  upon  the  curving  of  thine  lip 

Upon  the  crystal  of  thine  pallid  ear 

To  beg  forgiveness  with  flashing  smile 

Like  amber-coloured  honey 

The  sweet,  corners  of  thine  tired  mouth       Mustir 

Undo  thine  sin.      Thine  pa'n  is  killed  in  play 

Thine  body's  torture  stimulates  in  play 

And  silly  little  bells  of  perfect  tune 

Ring  in  thine  throat 

Thou  art  a  country  devasted      bare      Mustir 

Exhausted  soil  with  sandy  trembling  hills 

No  food      no  water      and  ashamed  of  it 

Thou  shiver       and  an  amber-yellow  sun 

Goes  down  the  horizon  * 

Thou  are  desert  with  mirages  which  drive  the  mind  insane 

To  walk       and  die       a-starving.  — 


42  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

THE  MAN  WHO  RESEMBLED  A  HORSE 
Rafael    Arevalo    Martinez 

(translated  from  the  Spanish  by  William  Carlos  Williams) 

AT  The  time  we  were  presented  he  was  at  one  end  of  the  apcirt- 
ment,  his  head  on  one  side,  as  horses  are  accustomed  to  stand, 
with  an  air  as  if  unconscious  of  all  going  on  round  him.  He  had 
long,  stiff  and  dried  out  limbs,  strangely  put  together,  like  those  of 
one  of  the  characters  in  an  english  illustration  to  Gulliver's  Travels. 
But  my  impression  that  the  man  in  some  mysterious  way  resembled 
a  horse  was  not  obtained  then,  except  in  a  subconscious  manner, 
which  might  never  have  risen  to  the  full  life  of  consciousness  had 
not  my  abnormal  contact  with  the  hero  of  this  story  been  prolonged. 

In  this  very  first  scene  of  our  introduction  senor  de  Aretal  be- 
gan by  way  of  welcome  to  ex^hibit  the  translucent  strings  of  opals, 
amethysts,  emeralds  and  carbuncles  which  constituted  his  intimate 
treasure.  In  a  first  moment  of  dazzlement  I  spread  myself  out,  I 
opened  myself  completely  like  a  great  white  sheet,  in  order  to  make 
greater  my  surface  of  contract  with  the  generous  giver.  The  anten- 
nae of  my  soul  went  out,  felt  him  and  returned,  tremulous,  moved, 
delighted  to  give  me  the  good  news:  —  "This  is  the  man  you  awaited; 
this  is  the  man  in  search  of  whom  you  peered  into  all  unknown  souls, 
for  your  intuition  had  affirmed  to  you  long  since  that  some  day 
you  would  be  enriched  by  the  advent  of  a  unique  being.  The 
avidity  with  which  you  have  seiezd,  stared  into  and  cast  aside  so 
many  sousl  which  made  themselves  desired  and  deceived  your  hope 
shall  today  be  amply  satisfied:  stoop  and  drink  of  this  water." 

And  when  he  arose  to  go,  I  followed  him,  tied  and  a  captive 
like  the  lamb  which  the  shepherdess  bound  with  garlands  of  roses. 
Once  in  the  living  room  of  my  new  friend,  having  no  more  than 
crossed  the  threshold  which  gave  him  passage  to  a  propitious  and 
habitual  environment,  his  entire  person  burst  into  flame.  He  be- 
came dazzling,  picturesque  as  the  horse  of  an  emperor  in  a  military 
parade.  The  skirts  of  his  coat  had  a  vague  resemblance  to  the  inner 
tunic  of  a  steed  of  the  middle  ages  harnessed  for  a  tourney.  They 
fell  below  his  meager  buttocks,  caressing  his  fine  and  distinguished 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  43 


ighs.    And  his  theatrical  performance  began. 

After  a  ritual  of  preparation  carefully  observed,  —  knight  ini- 
ite  of  a  most  ancient  cult, —  and  when  our  souls  had  already  be- 
ime  concave  he  brought  forth  his  folio  of  veises  with  the  unctious 
^portment  of  a  priest  who  draws  near  the  altar.  He  was  so  grave 
at  he  imposed  respect.  A  laugh  would  have  been  put  to  the  knife 
the  instant  of  its  birth. 

He  drew  forth  his  first  string  of  topazes,  or,  better  said,  his 
"St  series  of  strings  of  topazes,  translucent  and  brilliant.  His  hands 
sre  raised  with  such  cadence  that  the  rhythm  extended  three 
>rlds  removed.  By  the  power  of  the  rhythm  our  room  was  moved 
itire  to  the  second  floor,  like  a  captive  baloon,  until  it  broke  free 
3m  its  earthly  ties  and  carried  us  on  a  silent  aerial  journey.  But 
was  not  won  by  his  verses  for  they  were  inorganic.  They  were  the 
anslucid  and  rad'ant  soul  of  minerals;  they  were  the  symmetri- 
1  and  flinty  soul  of  minerals. 

And  then  the  officiant  of  mineral  things  brought  forth  his  sec- 
id  necklace.  Oh  emeralds,  divine  emeralds!  And  he  showed 
e  third.  Oh  diamonds,  clear  diamonds!  And  he  brought  the 
jurth  and  the  fifth,  which  were  again  topazes  like  drops  of  light, 
th  accumlations  from  the  sun,  with  parts  opaquely  radiant.  And 
en  the  seventh:  his  carbuncles!  His  carbuncles  were  —  almost 
irm;  they  nearly  moved  me  as  might  pomegranate  seed*  or  the 
ood  of  heros:  but  I  touched  them  and  I  felt  them  hard.  By  every 
eans  the  soul  of  mineral  things  invaded  me;  that  inorganic  aris- 
cracy  seduced  me  strangely,  without  my  fully  comprehending. 
)  much  was  this  true  that  I  could  not  translate  the  words  of  my 
ner  master  who  was  confused  and  made  a  vain  effort  to  become 
rd  and  symmetrical  and  limited  and  brilliant;  I  remained  dumb, 
id  then,  in  an  unforseen  explosion  of  offended  dignity,  believing 
mself  deceived,  the  officiant  took  from  me  his  necklace  of  car- 
mcles  with  a  movement  so  full  of  violence  but  so  just  that  it  left 
e  more  perplexed  than  hurt.  If  it  had  been  he  of  the  roses  he 
)uld  not  have  acted  in  this  way. 

And  then,  as  upon  the  breaking  of  a  charm  by  that  act  of  vio- 
ice,  the  enchantment  of  the  rhythm  was  shattered;  and  the  little 
lite  boat  in  which  we  had  been  flying  through  the  blue  of  the  sky 
und  itself  solidly  planted  on  the  first  floor  of  the  house. 

Later,  our  mutual  friend,  senor  de  Aretal  and  I  lunched  together 


44  T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Review 


on  the  lower  floor  of  the  hotel. 

In  these  moments  I  looked  into  the  well  of  the  soul  of  the  master 
of  the  topazes.  I  saw  many  things  refleced.  As  I  looked  in  I  had 
instinctively  spread  my  peacock's  tail;  but  I  had  spread  it  without 
an  inner  sense  of  the  thing;  simply  urged  by  so  much  beauty  per- 
ceived and  desiring  to  show  my  best  aspect  in  order  to  place  my- 
self in  tone  with  it. 

Oh  the  things  I  saw  in  that  well!  The  well  was  for  me  the 
very  well  of  mystery  itself.  To  look  into  a  human  soul,  wide  open 
as  a  well,  M'hich  is  an  eye  of  the  earth,  is  the  same  thing  as  to  get 
a  glimpse  of  God.  We  never  can  see  the  bottom.  But  we  satu- 
rate ourselves  in  the  moisture  of  the  water,  the  great  vehicle  of 
love;  and  we  are  bedazzled  with  reflected  light. 

This  well  reflected  the  multiple  external  aspect  of  tilings  in  the 
very  manner  of  senor  de  AretaJ.  Certain  figures  showed  more  clear- 
ly than  others  on  the  surface  of  the  water:  there  were  reflected 
the  classics, — that  treasure  of  tenderness  and  wisdom,  the  classics; 
but  above  all  there  was  reflected  the  image  of  an  absent  friend 
with  such  purity  of  line  and  such  exact  coloring  that  the  fact 
that  this  parallel  should  give  me  knowledge  of  the  soul  of  el  senor 
de  la  Rosa,  the  absent  friend  so  admired  and  so  loved,  was  not  one 
of  the  least  interesting  attractions  which  the  soul  of  senor  deAretal 
possessed  for  me.  Above  all  else  there  was  reflected  God  .  God. 
from  whom  I  was  never  less  distant.  The  great  soul  which  for  a 
t'me  is  brought  into  focus.  I  understood  as  I  looked  into  the  well 
of  senor  de  Aretal  that  he  was  a  divine  messenger.  He  brought  a 
message  to  humanity;  the  human  message,  which  has  the  greatest 
value  of  all.  But  he  was  an  unconscious  messenger.  He  lavished 
good  but  he  had  it  not  in  his  possession. 

Soon  I  interested  my  noble  host  to  an  unusual  degree.  1 
leant  over  the  clear  water  of  his  spirit  with  such  avidity  that  he  was 
enabled  to  get  a  clear  likeness  of  me.  I  had  drawn  sufficiently  near 
and  besides  I  was  in  addition  a  clear  thing  which  did  not  intercept 
the  light.  Possibly  I  obscured  him  as  much  as  he  did  me.  It  is 
a  quality  of  things  brought  under  hallucination  to  be  in  their  turn 
hallucinators.  This  mutual  attraction  drew  us  together  and  brought 
us  into  intimate  relationship.  I  frequented  the  divine  temple  ol 
that  beautiful  soul.  At  its  contact  I  began  to  take  fire.  Senor  de 
Aretal  was  a  lighted  lamp  and  I  was  stuff  ready  to  burn.    Our  souls 


The    Little    Review  45 

cummunicated  Avith  each  other.  I  held  my  hands  extended  and  the 
soul  of  each  one  of  my  ten  fingers  was  an  antenna  through  which 
I  received  the  knowledge  of  the  soul  of  senor  de  Aretail.  Thus  I 
l)ecame  aware  of  many  things  unknown  before.  Through  aerial 
routes  —  what  else  are  the  fingers,  or  velvety  leaves,  for  what  else 
but  aerial  routes  are  the  leaves — I  received  something  from  that  man 
which  had  been  lacking  me  till  that  time.  I  had  been  an  adventur- 
ous shrub  which  prolongs  its  filiments  until  it  finds  the  necessary 
humus  in  new  earth  .  And  how  I  fed!  I  fed  with  the  joy  of  tre- 
mulous leaves  of  chlorafile  that  spread  themselves  to  the  sun;  with 
the  joy  with  which  a  root  encounters  a  decomposing  corpse;  with 
the  joy  with  which  convalescents  take  their  vascillating  steps  in  the 
light-flooded  mornings  of  spring;  with  the  joy  with  which  a  child 
clings  to  the  nutritious  breast  and  afterward,  being  full,  smiles  in 
his  dreams  at  the  vision  of  a  snowy  udder.  Bah!  all  things  which 
complete  themselves  have  had  that  joy.  God,  some  day,  will  be 
nothmg  more  than  a  food  for  us:  something  needed  for  our  life. 
Thus  smile  children  and  the  young  when  they  feel  themselves  grati- 
fied by  nutrition. 

Beyond  that  I  took  fire.  Nutrition  is  combustion.  Wiho 
knows  wthat  divine  child  shook  over  my  spirit  a  sprinkling  of  gun- 
powder, of  naphtha,  of  something  easily  inflammable;  and  senor  de 
Aretal,  who  had  known  how  to  draw  near  me,  had  set  fire  to  it. 
I  bad  the  pleasure  of  burning,  that  is  to  say,  of  fulfilling  my  destiny. 
I  understood  that  I  was  a  thing  easily  inflammable.  Oh  father  fire, 
blessed  be  thou!  My  destiny  is  to  burn.  Fire  is  also  a  message. 
What  other  souls  will  take  fire  from  me?  To  whom  would  I  com- 
municate my  flame?    Bah!  who  can  fortell  the  future  of  a  spark? 

I  burnt  and  senor  de  Aretal  saw  me  burn.  In  marvelous 
harmony  our  two  atoms  of  hydrogen  and  oxygen  had  approached  so 
closely  that,  stretching  themselves,  throwing  out  particles,  they  al- 
most succeeded  in  uniting  into  a  living  thing.  At  times  they  flut- 
tered about  like  two  butterflies  which  seek  each  other  and  make 
marvelous  loops  over  the  river  and  in  the  air.  At  other  times  they 
rose  by  virtue  of  their  own  rhythm  and  harmonious  consonance,  as 
rise  the  two  wings  of  a  distich.  One  was  impregnating  the  other. 
Until  .... 

Have  you  heard  of  those  icebergs  which,  drawn  into  warm 
waters  by  a  submarine  current,  disintegrate  at  their  base  until,  the 


46  The    Little    Review 


marvelous  equilibrium  being  lost,  they  revolve  upon  themselves 
an  apocalyptic  turning,  rapid,  unforseen,  presenting  to  the  f ace  • 
the  sun  what  had  before  been  hidden  beneath  the  sea?  Inverti 
they  appear  unconscious  of  the  ships  which,  when  their  upper  pa 
went  under,  they  caused  to  sink  into  the  abyss.  Unconscious 
the  loss  of  nests  which  had  been  built  in  their  parts  heretofo 
turned  to  the  light,  in  the  relative  stability  of  those  two  fragi 
things:  eggs  and  ice. 

Thus,  suddenly,  there  began  to  take  shape  in  the  transpare 
angel  of  senor  de  Aretal  a  dark  little  almost  insubstantial  clou 
It  was  the  projected  shadow  of  the  horse  that  was  drawing  near. 

Who  could  express  my  grief  when  there  appeared  in  the  anj 
of  senor  de.  Aretal  that  thing  —  obscure,  vague  and  formless.  ^' 
noble  friend  had  gone  down  to  the  bar  of  the  hotel  in  which  : 
lived.  Who  was  passing?  Bah!  a  dark  thing  possessed  of  a  h( 
rible  flattened  nose  and  thin  lips.  Do  you  understand?  If  t 
line  of  the  nose  had  been  straight  then  also  something  would  ha 
been  straightened  in  his  soul.  If  his  lips  had  been  full,  his  si 
cerity  would  have  been  increased  also.  But  no.  Senor  de  Arel 
had  called  him.  There  he  was  .  .  .  And  my  soul  which  at  that  i 
stant  had  power  to  discern  clearly  understood  that  that  dwarf  whc 
I  had  until  then  thought  to  be  a  man,  since  I  one  day  saw  his  chee 
color  with  shame,  was  no  more  than  a  pygmy.  With  such  nostr 
one  could  not  be  sincere. 

Invited  by  the  master  of  the  topazes  we  seated  ourselves 
a  table.  They  served  us  cognac  and  refre^ments  to  take  or  lea> 
Here  the  harmony  was  broken.  The  alcohol  broke  it.  I  did  r 
take  any.  He  drank.  But  the  alcohol  was  near  me  on  the  wh 
marble  table.  It  came  between  us  and  intercepted  our  sou 
Furthermore,  the  soul  of  senor  de  Aretal  was  no  longer  blue  li 
mine.  It  was  red  and  flat  like  that  of  the  companion  who  separat 
us.  Then  I  understood  that  what  I  had  most  loved  in  senor 
Aretal  was  my  own  blue. 

Soon  the  flattened  soul  of  senor  de  Aretal  began  to  speak 
low  things.    All  his  thoughts  had  the  crooked  nose.    All  his  though 
drank  alcohol  and  materialized  grossly.     He  told  us  of  a  legion 
Jamaican  negresses,  lewd  and  semi-naked,  pursuing  him  with  t 
offer  of  their  odious  merchandise  for  a  nickel.     His  speech  paim 


The    Little    Review  47 

mc  and  soon  his  will  pained  me.  He  asked  me  insistently  to  drink 
alcohol.  I  yielded.  But  hardly  had  my  sacrifice  been  consum- 
mated than  I  felt  clearly  that  sometJiing  was  breaking  between  us. 
That  our  inner  masters  were  withdrawing  and  that  a  divine  equilib- 
rium of  crystals  was  tumbling  down  in  silence.  I  told  him  so:  — 
Senor  de  Aretal  you  have  broken  our  divine  relationship  in  this 
very  instant.  Tomorrow  you  will  see  me  arrive  at  your  apartment, 
a  man  only,  and  I  will  meet  only  a  man  in  you.  In  this  very  in- 
stant you  have  dyed  me  in  red. 

The  following  day  in  effect,  I  do  not  know  what  we  did,  senor 
de  Aretal  and  I.  I  believe  we  were  walking  along  the  street  bent 
upon  some  sort  of  business.  He  was  aga'n  ablaze.  I  was  walking 
at  his  side  extinguished  and  far  removed.  As  I  walked  I  was 
thinking  to  myself  that  mystery  had  never  opened  so  wide  a  slit 
for  me  to  look  through  as  in  my  relations  with  my  strange  fellow 
voyager.  I  had  never  felt  so  thoroughly  the  possibilities  of  man; 
I  had  never  so  well  understood  the  intimate  God  as  in  my  relations 
with  senor  de  Aretal. 

We  arrived  at  his  room.  His  forms  of  thought  were  awaiting 
us.  And  all  the  while  I  felt  myself  far  from  senor  de  Aretal.  I  felt 
far  for  many  days,  on  many  successive  visits.  I  went  to  him  obey- 
ing inexorable  laws.  Because  precisely  that  contact  was  required 
to  consume  a  part  in  me.  so  dry  until  then,  as  if  prepared  the  better 
to  burn.  All  my  pain  of  dryness  hitherto  now  rejoiced  in  burning; 
all  the  pain  of  my  emptiness  hitherto  now  rejoiced  in  fullness.  I 
sallied  out  of  the  night  of  my  soul  into  a  blazing  dawn.  It  is  well. 
Let  us  be  brave.  The  dryer  we  are  the  better  we  shall  burn.  And  . 
so  I  went  to  that  man  and  our  inner  masters  rejoiced.  .Ah!  but  the 
endhantment  of  the  first  days.    Now  where? 

When  I  had  become  resigned  to  find  a  man  in  senor  de  Aretal. 
there  returned  anew  the  enchantment  of  his  marvelous  presence.  I 
loved  my  friend.  But  it  was  impossible  for  me  to  throw  aside  the 
melancholy  of  the  departed  god.  Translucid,  diamantine  lost  wings! 
How  m'ght  I  recover  them  and  return  where  we  were? 

One  day  senor  de  Aretal  found  the  medium  propitious.  We 
his  hearers  were  several;  verses  were  being  recited  in  the  room  en- 
chanted by  h's  habitual  creations.  Suddenly,  in  the  presence  of 
some  more  beautiful  than  the  rest,  as  upon  a  horn  blast,  our  noble 
host  arose  pawing  and  prancing.    And  then  and  there  I  had  my  first 


48  The    Little    Review 


vision:     Senor  de  Arctal  stretched  his  neck  like  a  horse. 

I  attracted  his  attention: — ^Worthy  host,  I  beg  you  to  take  this 
and  this  attitude.  Yes;  it  was  true:  he  stretched  his  neck  like  a 
horse. 

Later,  the  second  vision;  the  same  day.  We  went  out  to  walk. 
Of  a  sudden  I  perceived,  I  perceived  it:  Scnor  de  Aretal  jell  like 
a  horse.  Suddenly  his  left  foot  gave  way,  then  his  haunches  nearly 
touched  the  ground,  like  a  horse  that  stumbles.  He  recovered  him- 
self quickly;  but  he  had  already  given  me  the  impression.  Have 
you  seen  a  horse  fall? 

Then  the  third  vision,  a  few  days  later.  Senor  de  Aretal  was 
performing,  seated  before  his  money  in  gold;  suddenly  I  saw  him 
move  his  arms  as  horses  of  pure  blood  move  their  forefeet,  thrusting 
the  extremities  of  their  legs  forward,  to  either  side,  in  that  beautiful 
series  of  movements  which  you  doubtless  have  many  times  observed 
when  an  able  rider  in  a  crowded  thoroughfare*  curbs  the  pace 
of  his  curvetting  and  splendid  mount. 

Afterward  another  vision:  Senor  de  Aretal  looked  at  things 
like  a  horse.  When  he  was  drunk  with  his  own  words,  as  his  own 
generous  blood  makes  a  high  bred  steed  drunk,  tremulous  as  a 
leaf,— trembling  like  a  steed  mounted  and  curbed,  trembling  like 
all  living  forms  of  nervous  and  fine  fiber, — he  would  bend  down  his 
head,  he  would  turn  his  head  sidewise,  and  thus  he  looked  about, 
while  his  arms  knitted  something  in  the  air,  like  the  forepaws  of 
a  horse.  What  a  magnificent  thing  a  horse  is!  He  almost  stands 
upon  two  feet!     And  then  I  felt  that  the  spirit  was  riding  him. 

And  later  a  hundred  visions  more.  Senor  de  Aretal  approached 
women  like  a  horse.  In  sumptuous  parlors  he  could  not  remain 
quiet.  He  would  draw  alongside  some  lovely  woman,  newly  intro- 
duced, with  elastic  and  easy  movements,  bow  his  head  and  hold  it 
on  the  side;  he  would  take  a  turn  around  her  and  take  a  turn 
around  the  room. 

Thus  he  looked  sidelong.  I  was  able  to  observe  that  his  eyes 
were  bloodshot.  One  day  he  broke  one  of  the  small  vessels  which 
color  them  with  a  delicate  network:  the  little  vessel  broke  and  a 
tinjf  red  stain  colored  his  sclera.    I  called  it  to  his  attention. 

—  "Bah",  said  he  to  me,  "that  is  an  old  matter.  I  have  suffered 
vith  it  for  three  days.    But  have  no^  time  to  see  a  doctor." 

He  walked  to  a  glass  and  looked  into  it  fixedly.     When  I  re- 


The    Little    Review 


49 


tmed  on  the  following  day,  I  found  that  one  more  virtue  ennobled 
l-n.  I  asked  him:  "What  beautifies  you  in  this  hour"?  And  he 
r>]ied  :  "A  hue."  And  he  told  me  that  he  had  put  on  a  red 
n:ktie  that  im  might  harmon.'se  with  his  eye.  Then  I  understood 
tit  there  was  in  his  spirit  a  third  red  and  that  these  three  reds 
kether  were  what  had  attracted  my  attention  when  saluting  him. 
Er  the  crystaJ  spirit  of  senor  de  Aretal  was  wont  to  take  on  the  hue 
3Surrounding  things.  And  this  is  what  his  verses  were:  a  marvelous 
•loction  of  crystals  tinged  by  the  things  about  them:  emeralds, 
nes,  opals  .... 

But  this  was  at  times  sad  because  at  times  surrounding  things 
re  dark  or  discolored:  the  greens  of  the  manure  pile,  the  pale 
ens  of  sickly  plants.  I  came  to  deplore  finding  him  with  others 
i  when  this  happened  I  would  leave  senor  de  Aretal  under  any 
text  if  his  companion  were  not  a  person  of  clear  colors. 

For  unfailingly  senor  de  Aretal  reflected  the  spirit  of  his  com- 
iion.  One  day  I  found  him,  he  the  noble  steed!  dwarfed  and 
leyed.  And  as  in  a  mirror,  I  saw  in  the  room  a  person  dwarfed 
1  honeyed.  Sure  enough,  there  she  was:  he  presented  her.  A 
nan  flattened,  fat  and  low.  Her  spirit  likewise  was  a  low  thing, 
lething  trailing  and  humble;  but  inoffensive  and  desirous  of 
ismg.  That  person  w^as  the  spirit  of  flattery.  And  senor  de 
tal  also  at  that  moment  possessed  a  small  soul,  servile  and  ob- 
uious.  What  convex  mirror  has  brought  about  this  horrible  trans- 
nation?  I  asked  myself,  terrified.  And  at  once  all  the  air  of 
room  appeared  to  me  as  a  transparent  convex  glass  which  dis- 
ed  the  objects.  How  flattened  the  chairs  were  .  .  .  !  Everything 
red  itself  to  be  sat  upon.    Aretal  was  one  hack  horse  the  more. 

On  another  occasion,  at  the  table  of  a  noisy  group  which 
?hed  and  drank,  Aretal  was  one  human  the  more,  one  more  of 
heap.  I  drew  alongside  him  and  saw  him  listed  and  the  price 
d.  He  cracked  jokes  and  brandished  them  like  weapons  of 
;nse.  He  was  a  circus  horse.  All  in  that  group  were  on  exhibi- 
:.  Another  time  he  was  a  jaydn  .  He  entangled  himself  in  abus- 
words  with  a  brute  of  a  man.  He  was  like  a  market  woman 
would  have  disgusted  me;  but  I  loved  him  so  much  that  it  made 
sad.    He  was  a  kicking  horse. 

Fihally  there  appeared  on  the  physical  plane  a  question  which 
id  long  been  shaping:  which  is  the  true  spirit  of  senor  de  Aretal? 


so  T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view 

And  I  answered  it  quickly.  Senor  de  Aretal  with  his  fine  mentali 
had  no  soul:  he  w^as  amoral.  He  was  amoral  as  a  horse  and  allow* 
himself  to  be  mounted  by  any  spirit  whatever.  At  times  his  ride 
were  fearful  or  miserly  and  then  Senor  de  Aretal  would  fling  the 
from  him  with  a  proud  buck.  That  moral  vacuum  of  his  being  won 
fill,  as  do  all  vacuums,  with  ease.    It  tended  to  fill  itself. 

I  proposed  the  question  to  the  very  exalted  mind  of  my  friei 
and  he  took  it  up  at  once.  He  made  me  a  confession: — Yes:  it 
true.  I  show  you  who  love  me  the  better  part  of  me.  I  show  y 
my  inner  god.  But,  it  is  painful  to  say  it,  between  two  human  I: 
ings  around  me  I  tend  to  take  on  the  color  of  the  lower.  Flee  fr( 
me  when  I  am  in  bad  company. 

Upon  the  base  of  this  discovery  I  entered  still  more  deeply  ir 
his  spirit.  He  confessed  to  me  one  day,  in  grief,  that  no  worn 
had  ever  loved  him.  All  his  being  bled  as  he  said  this.  I  explair 
to  him  that  no  woman  could  love  him,  because  he  was  not  a  m; 
the  union  would  have  been  monstrous.  Senor  de  Aretal  did  r 
know  modesty  and  was  indelicate  in  his  relations  with  ladies,  1: 
an  animal.    And  he: 

—  But  I  heap  them  with  money. 

—  That  also  would  be  given  them  by  a  valuable  pfope 
rented. 

And  he: 

—  But  I  caress  them  with  passion. 

—  Their  little  wooly  dogs  also  lick  their  hands. 
And  he: 

—  But  I  am  faithful  and  generous  to  them;  I  am  humble 
them;  I  am  self-denying  to  them. 

—  Well;  man  is  more  than  that.    But,  do  you  love  them? 

—  Yes,  I  love  them. 

—  But  do  you  love  them  as  a  man?  No,  friend,  no.  '\ 
break  in  those  delicate  and  divine  beings  a  thousand  slender  co 
which  constitute  a  life  entire.  That  last  prostitute,  who  denied  3 
her  love  and  has  disdained  your  money,  defended  her  one  im 
late  part:  her  inner  master;  that  which  is  not  sold.  You  have| 
shame.  Now  listen  to  my  prophesy:  a  woman  will  redeem  j 
You,  obsequious  and  humble  to  lowliness  with  the  ladies;  you  ptff 
to  carry  a  lovely  woman,  on  your  back,  with  the  pride  of  the  favoi 
nag  which  delights  in  its  burden,  —  when  this  beautiful  woman  si 


T he    Lit  tie    R  e  view  51 

love  you,  you  will  be  redeemed;  you  will  acquire  chastity  by  con- 
quest. 

And  at  another  time  propitious  for  confidences. 

—  I  have  never  had  a  friend.  And  his  entire  being  bled  as 
he  said  this.  I  explained  to  him  that  no  man  could  give  him  his 
friendship  because  he  was  not  a  man,  and  the  friendship  would  have 
been  monstrous.  Senor  de  Aretal  did  not  comprehend  friendship 
and  was  indelicate  in  his  relations  with  men,  like  an  animal.  He 
knew  only  comradship.  He  galloped  joyful  and  openhearted  upon 
the  plain  with  his  companions;  he  liked  to  go  in  droves  with  them; 
primitive  and  primordial  he  galloped,  feeling  the  burning  of  his 
generous  blood  which  incited  him  to  action,  —  becoming  drunk  with 
the  air,  the  verdure  and  the  sun;  but  later  he  would  withdraw  with 
indifference  from  his  companion  of  a  year.  The  horse,  his  brother 
dead  beside  him,  sees  him  rot  beneath  the  dome  of  the  heavens 
without  a  tear  rising  to  his  eyes  .  .  .  And  senor  de  Aretal,  when  I 
had  finished  expressing  my  last  concept,  radiant: 

—  This  is  the  glory  of  nature.  Matter,  immortal,  does  not  die. 
\Vhy  weep  for  a  horse  when  a  rose  remains?  Why  weep  for  a  rose 
when  a  bird  is  there?  Why  lament  for  a  friend  when  a  meadow  re- 
mains? I  feel  the  radiant  light  of  the  sun  which  possesses  us  all, 
which  redeems  us  all.  To  weep  is  to  sin  against  the  sun.  Men, 
cowards,  miserable  and  low,  sin  against  nature,  which  is  God. 

And  I,  reverent,  on  my  knees  before  that  beautiful  animal  soul 
which  filled  me  with  the  unction  of  God: 

—  Yes,  it  is  true;  but  man  is  a  part  of  nature;  he  is  nature 
evolved.  I  respect  evolution!  There  is  force  and  there  is  matter; 
I  respect  them  both!     They  are  all  one. 

—  I  am  beyond  the  moral. 

—  You  are  on  this  side  of  morality;  you  are  below  the  moral. 
But  the  horse  and  the  angel  touch  one  another,  and  for  this  reason 
you  at  times  appear  to  me  as  divine.  St.  Francis  d'Assisi,  like 
you,  loved  all  beings  and  all  things;  but  that  being  true,  he  loved 
them  in  another  manner;  he  loved  them  beyond  the  circle,  not  this 
side  of  it  as  you  do. 

And  then  he: 

—  I  am  generous  with  my  friends:  I  shower  them  vnth  gold. 

—  It  would  also  be  given  them  by  a  valuable  property  leased, 
or  by  an  oil  well,  or  a  working  mine. 


Sa  The    Little    Review 


And  he: 

—  But  I  pay  them  a  thousand  little  attentions.  I  have  been 
nurse  to  the  sick  friend  and  a  boon  companion  in  an  orgy  to  the 
hale  friend. 

And  I: 

—  Man  is  more  than  that;  man  is  solidarity.  You  love  your 
friends  but  do  you  love  them  with  human  love?  No;  you  offended 
in  us  a  thousand  intangible  things.  I,  who  am  the  first  man  who 
has  loved  you,  have  sovra  the  germ  of  your  redemption.  That 
egoistic  friend  who  separated  himself,  in  leaving  you,  from  a  bene- 
factor, did  not  feel  himself  united  to  you  by  any  human  bond. 
You  have  no  solidarity  with  men. 


—  You  have  not  modesty  with  women  nor  solidarity  with  men 
nor  respect  for  the  law.  You  lie,  and  find  in  your  exalted  mentality 
an  excuse  for  your  lie,  although  you  are  by  nature  truthful,  like  a 
horse.  You  flatter  and  deceive  and  find  in  your  exalted  mentality 
an  excuse  for  your  flattery  and  your  deceit  although  you  are  by 
nature  noble,  like  a  horse.  I  have  never  so  loved  horses  as  I  love 
them  in  you.  I  understand  the  nobility  of  the  horse:  it  is  nearly 
human.  You  have  always  borne  a  human  load  upon  your  back:  a 
woman,  a  friend  .  .  .  What  would  become  of  that  woman  and  that 
friend  in  the  difficult  passes  without  you,  the  noble,  the  strong,  who 
bore  them  upon  himself  with  a  generosity  which  will  be  your  redemp- 
tion! He  who  bears  a  burden  covers  the  road  most  swiftly.  But  you 
have  borne  them  like  a  horse.  Faithful  to  your  nature,  begin  to  bear 
them  like  a  man. 

I  took  leave  of  the  master  of  the  topazes  and  a  few  days  later 
there  occured  the  last  act  of  our  relationship.  Of  a  sudden  senor 
de  Aretal  sensed  that  my  hand  was  unsteady,  that  it  was  held  out 
to  him  in  a  cowardly  and  ungenerous  manner  and  his  nobility  of  the 
brute  revolted.  With  a  swift  kick  he  threw  me  far  from  him.  I 
felt  his  hoofs  on  my  forehead.  Then  a  rapid  gallop,  rhythmic  and 
martial,  scattering  to  the  winds  the  sands  of  the  desert.  I  turned  my 
eyes  toward  the  place  where  the  sphynx  had  stood  in  her  eternal 
repose  of  mystery  and  I  no  longer  saw  her.  The  sphynx  was  senor 
de  Aretal  who  had  revealed  to  me  his  secret  which  was  the  same  as 
that  of  the  centaur! 


The    Little    Review  53 


It  was  senor  de  Aretal,  drawing  away  at  a  rapid  gallop,  with 
a  human  face  and  the  body  of  a  beast. 

Guatemala,  October  19 14. 


THE     BOULEVARD 

Israel    Solon 

ALL  THE  morning  Mollie  Mandel  had  been  from  door  to  door 
along  the  south  side  of  Maxwell  Street,  selling  tickets  for  The 
Orphans  Aid  Society's  coming  ball.  Her  hand  bag  of  real  alligator 
skin  with  solid  gold  trimming  bulged  with  all  the  money  she  had 
stuffed  into  it  that  morning.  There  was  resounding  firmness  in  her 
step  and  arrogance  in  her  manner.  Not  another  member  of  the 
Entertainment  Committee  had  sold  so  many  tickets,  she  was  just 
certain. 

Mollie  Mandel  enjoyed  all  selling.  Before  marrying  the  rich 
Max  Mandel,  Mollie  had  been  the  best  sales-lady  in  Little  Jake's 
Milwaukee  Avenue  Bargain  House.  But  it  was  selling  tickets  for 
fashionable  charities  that  Mollie  Mandel  enjoyed  most.  It  made 
her  welfare  work  among  the  ghetto  poor  a  real  pleasure. 

Mollie  Mandel  smiled  a  fat  smile.  She  wa^  uncommonly  well 
pleased  with  herself  and  her  success  of  the  morning  .  She  unbuttoned 
her  Persian  lamb  coat  that  everybody  might  enjoy  the  snug  broad- 
cloth suit  she  wore  beneath,  and  the  diamonds  flashing  at  her 
throat  and  ears.  The  barrels  of  herring,  the  numerous  improvised 
shops  and  stands  that  congested  the  sidewalk  and  street,  the  pyra- 
mids of  discolored  oranges,  diminutive  apples  and  over-ripe  bananas, 
the  heaps  of  cheap  imitation  wares  exhibited  for  sale  to  those  living 
on  the  outer  edge,  heightened  her  feeling  of  security  .  And  she 
reveled  in  it.  She  was  above  these  little  people  and  their  trembling 
lives.  Let  those  who  give  themselves  superior  airs  snarl  at  her  as 
they  please,  and  call  her  "aJlrightnik,"  which  is  the  American 
Yiddish  for  New-rich  vulgarian.  What  did  she  care!  In  Maxwell 
Street  she  was  a  swell  lady  what  lives  on  the  Boulevard.  She  was 
so  well  pleased  with  herself  that  she  quite  forgot  her  limcheon. 
Mollie  Mandel  rarely   forgot  her  meals. 

It  was  noon  when  Mollie  Mandel  caught  sight  of  Esther  Mal- 
kin  at  the  show-window   in  her   father's  bake-shop  in   Maxwell 


54  T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view 

Street.  Instantly,  her  eyes  swam  in  pleasure;  joy  oozed  out  all 
over  her  face,  guttered  down  each  side  of  her  nose  and  around  her 
mouth,  spilled  over  the  edge  of  her  jaws,  circled  the  fat  of  her 
neck  and  throat  and  ran  down  below  her  broadcloth  suit. 

"Say,  Frieda!"  Mollie  Mandel  shouted  to  her  companion  across 
the  street.  "Come  on  over!"  And  she  made  violent  motions  with 
her  hands." 

"What's  eatin'  you  now?"  Frieda  shouted  back  as  she  hurried 
across. 

"Listen!"  Mollie  Mandel  confided  in  a  loud  whisper.  "See 
Esther  Malkin  moping  there  in  the  window?  I've  got  a  live  hxmch. 
I'm  going  to  hook  the  Malkins  for  some  tickets." 

"I'll  just  bet  ^ou  the  lunch  for  the  two  of  us  at  the  Annex 
you  don't!" 

"Say  that  again,"  Mollie  Mandel  challenged.  "That  listens 
good  to  me.    Remember  ,rm  going  to  order  a  whole  lobster." 

"I  should  worry  what  you  order!  You'll  have  to  pay  for  mine, 
too." 

"Say,  kid,  you're  on!"  Mollie  Mandel  called  out  exultantly. 
"Let's  hook  claws  on  that."  And  she  reached  out  for  Frieda's  hand. 
"Just  watch  me  put  it  over!" 

Esther  Malkin  was  a  short,  dark  girl,  and  inclined  to  be  stout, 
like  her  mother.  She  was  nineteen  and  silent.  She  had  no  bracelets, 
no  jeweled  combs,  no  silver  mesh  bag,  no  satin  slippers;  nor  had 
she  as  yet  anything  put  away  in  die  big  trunk,  though  her  parents 
were  as  worthy  as  any  living  in  Maxwell.  She  had  not  even  the 
desire  for  those  things.  She  was  a  plain  girl.  The  flour  dust  which 
covered  her  large  black  eyes  and  clotted  her  mass  of  black  hair, 
merging  them  into  a  dull  drab  jumble,  like  the  dull  drab  jumble 
of  her  clothing,  also  penetrated  and  thickened  her  soul.  Esther 
never  found  herself  shaken  with  strong  desire,  never  complained, 
and  seldom  laughed.  Day  after  day  she  plodded  from  counter  to 
counter  in  her  father's  bake-shop  in  Maxwell  Street,  dealing  out 
loaves  of  rye  bread  to  shrill  women  with  shawls  over  their  heads, 
and  sticky  cakes  and  rolls  to  fiery-eyed,  noisy  children.  All  of  her 
interests  were  centered  upon  the  immediate  and  the  practical  — 
upon  the  day's  receipts,  upon  making  the  correct  change,  upon  re- 
serving the  shapeliest  loaves  for  the  best  customers.  And  because 
she  could  rest  but  one  foot  at  a  time  she  generally  appeared 
lopsided. 


The    Little    Review  55 


One  after  another  the  Maxwell  Street  girls  were  being  married 

though  of  some  it  was  said  that  they  were  not  fit  to  bind  a  cat's 

You  saw  the  young  men  coming  fresh  from  the  barber  shop, 

ir  hair  all  glossy,  their  faces  nice  and  clean  so  that  it  was  a  read 

asure  just  to  look  at  them.    After  an  hour  you  saw  them  holding 

street  doors  open  for  their  ladies,  helping  them  off  the  sidewalk 
1  across  the  street,  turning  their  heads  this  way  and  that,  like 
1  genlemen.  In  a  few  weeks  you  saw  the  young  ladies  with  their 
ids  always  at  their  hair,  so  as  to  make  sure  you  would  see  their 
;agement  rings,  real  diamonds,  in  golden  mounting.    And  yet,  as 

mothers  came  in  to  order  the  huge  \dieaten  twisted  wedding 
ves,  Esther  congratulated  them  cheerfully,  warmly;  and  never 
nd  it  necessary  to  suppress  a  longing,  to  stifie  a  sigh. 

It  was  not  that  Esther  was  indifferent  to  what  might  become 
her.  She  was  merely  "a  kosher  Yiddish  daughter,"  perpetuated 
ough  the  ages  by  the  isolation  of  the  ghetto.    As  in  her  childhood 

had  repyosed  peacefully  in  the  arms  of  her  mother,  she  now  rested 
urely  in  the  ancient  faith  of  her  people,  never  doubting  that 

own  would  come  to  her.  The  Exalted  One  forsakes  no  one.  Her 
n  would  be  no  doctor  or  lawyer,  not  even  a  down-town  business 
n  like  Mollie  Mandel's  man.  Let  him  only  be  a  nice  man  and  a 
>d  baker,  and  she  would  be  quite  thankful.  With  a  little  help 
m  her  father,  they  would  open  a  bake-shop,  and  even  get  to 
ve  to  the  Boulevard  some  day  perhaps.    Why  not? 

The  noonday  rush  in  the  Malkin  bake-shop  was  just  over, 
ly  the  clamor  made  by  the  nervous  women  and  children  still 
gered.    Soon  this,  too,  faded  out;  and  an  empty  stillness  invaded 

shop,  and  a  kind  of  peace.  Esither  made  limply  for  the  edge 
the  show-window,  to  gaze  with  unseeing  eyes  at  the  feverish 
arm  outdoors,  while  resting  her  tired  body.    And  a  moment  later 

was  dreaming,  open-eyed  day  dreaming: 

She  was  seated  on  the  front  porch  of  her  home On  the 

tulevard Her  man  he  was  away  somewhere She  did 

t  know  where She  did  not  know  what  he  looked  like,  but 

was  a  nice  man And  she  was  surrounded  by  children  — 

lumber  of  children ! Suddenly  she  was  overcome  by  a  scorch- 
desire  to  press  a  curly  head  to  her  breast,  to  shower  furious 
ses  upon  it  — 
''Hello,  Esther!"  Mollie  Mandel  shouted  in  the  doorway.    "Has 


56  The    Little    Review 


he  got  lots  of  money?  '  I'll  bet  he  knows  how  to  show  a  girl  a  g 
time!  Do  I  know  him?  What's  his  name?  Are  you  afraid 
take  him  away  from  you?'' 

She  fired  the  questions  in  rapid  succession,  without  war 
for  an  answer,  for  she  was  not  interested  in  what  Esther  might  1: 
to  say. 

"Just  leave  it  to  the  quiet  ones,"  she  continued.  "You  nee 
blush  so.  Oh,  my,  oh,  my!  If  I  made  a  mistake  all  the  worse 
you.     You  don't  know  all  the  fun  you're  missing." 

Esther  had  not  uttered  a  word.    She  could  not.    Her  mind 
not  quick  enough.     Mollie  Mandel  now  thought  that  she  had  ! 
enough  on  that  subject,  so  she  asked: 

"Where's  your  mother?  —  Oh,  hello,  Mrs.  Malkin!     How 
you?    I  seen  gold  and  silver,  but  you  I  did  not  see.    You're  loolt 
fine!" 

She  got  down  at  once  to  the  busines  she  had  in  mind,  and 
tone  changed.  The  spirit  of  banter  left  her.  She  spoke  from 
privileged  position  of  a  lady  of  the  Boulevard,  who,  but  for 
goodness  of  her  heart,  might  have  spoken  differently.  She  was 
neither  pleading  nor  arguing.  She  merely  voiced  obvious  and  u. 
sailable  truths,  and  through  no  other  motive  than  her  desire  tc  ' 
good. 

"Everybody  knows  I  speak  right  out.    By  me  there's  no  tr 
and  monkey  business.    What  can  you  be  thinking  about?    Wh)  ? 
you  keep  Esther  so  much  at  home?    She  isn't  a  baby  any  more! 

Esther  squirmed.     She  gathered  her  arms  about  her  as 
stranger  had  invaded  her  room  while  she  was  dressing.     M< 
Mandel  noticed  it,  and  became  bantering  again,  but  only  fc 
moment.  } 

"Say,  if  it  wasn't  right  the  rabbi  wouldn't  do  it,  and  if  it  wa  " 
nice  the  Czar  wouldn't  do  it.  We're  among  ourselves.  There  a 
nobody  we  got  to  be. ashamed  of.  In  plain  words:  you  got  to  m 
her  go  out  and  meet  people.  A  nice  wedding,  a  swell  ball  —  5 
there's  no  need  my  laying  a  finger  in  your  mouth!  You  can  un< 
stand  a  thing  as  good  as  the  next  one.  The  Orphans  Aid  Socei 
coming  ball,  for  instance.  That's  just  like  it  was  made  to  order 
Esther.  It's  the  swellest  affair  of  the  season.  Esther  musn't  e 
it.  I'll  introduce  a  bunch  of  swell  fellows  to  her  —  A  sn 
woman  like  you,  say!    What  you  forgot  some  people  you  and  I  ki 


The    Little    Review  57 


never  learn.  But  we  all  got  to  be  reminded  sometimes.  Here 
three  tickets." 

Mollie  Mandel  stuffed  the  money  into  her  bag  of  real  alligator 

with  solid  gold  trimming.  Mrs.  Malkin  fingered  the  tickets, 
knowing  what  else  to  do  with  them.  With  one  hand  on  the  door, 
lie  Mandel,  smiling  benignly,  turned  to  Esther: 

''Esther,  you're  a  nice  one!  Why  don't  you  come  over  to  see 
sometimes?  My  house  ain't  swell  enough  for  you.  what?  Be- 
;  me,  with  a  house  like  mine  I  ain't  got  nothing  to  be  ashamed 
Without  my  loss,  let  God  bless  you  even  next  year  with  a  house 
mine.    Ring  me  up  when  yxDu're  coming,  you  hear?" 

A  long  silence  followed  Mollie  Mandel 's  departure.  It  was  not 
:ly  that  her  breathless  flow  of  words  had  intimidated  both  the 
ler  and  daughter,  but  that  she  had  talked  all  the  while  she 
with  them;  and  now  she  was  gone  before  they  had  had  time  to 
her  anything.     It  took  time  for  them  to  puzzle  out  what  all 

happened  to  them.     Esther  finally  ventured  t'midly: 

"I  think  Mollie  is  awful  nice.  She  ain't  a  bit  stuck  up  or 
:hing.    Wasn't  that  a  swell  coat  she  had  on?" 

"Ach,  daughterkin,"  and  the  mother  rocked  herself  ruefully. 

all  things  you  got  to  'have  luck.  Before  she  got  married  silie 
hardly  three  threads  on  her.  so  God  sends  her  a  good  luck,  and 

at  her  now!  A  grain  of  luck  is  better  as  a  pound  of  gold, 
^hterkin." 

Again  mother  and  daughter  fell  silent.  A  film  of  sadness  over- 
ad  Mrs.  Malkin's  face.     The  contrast  between  Esther's  heavy 

and  Mollie  Mandel's  rampant  prosperity  was  too  great 
the  mother  to  accept  cheerfully.  Answering  to  an  inner  need 
lo  something,  Mrs.  Malkin  began  to  remove  the  bread  cmmbs 
1  the  counter,  without  noticing  that  she  was  using  her  white  apron 

dusting  cloth.     Esther  kept  creasing  a  piece  ojf  wrapping  paper 

smoothing  it  out  again  on  her  knee,  over  and  over  again,  for 
e  minutes. 

"What'll  we  do  with  all  them  tickets,  mother?"  Esther  asked 
lenly.    "We  ain't  really  going?" 

The  question  took  Mrs.  Malkin  by  surprise,  and  she  barely 
aged  to  say: 

"We  got  to  hear  what  the  father  will  say;"  and,  taking  advan- 

of  the  entrance  of  a  customer,  she  said  hastily:     "See  what 


S8  T  he    Li  t  tie    Re  view 


Mrs.  Solomon  wants,  daughterkin.    She's  got  a  little  baby  at  home.' 

How  that  winter  afternoon  passed  Esther  did  not  know.  Sh< 
could  not  have  said  whether  it  had  been  long  or  short,  nor  how  sh) 
had  spent  it.  W^hen  she  stepped  out  the  door  that  evening  to  loci 
up  the  shop,  she  was  struck  by  the  appearance  of  Maxwell  Street 
It  was  as  if  she  had  stepped  into  a  strange  street,  in  some  Strang* 
town.  The  flaming  gasoline  torches,  the  push-carts  and  stands,  thi 
heaps  of  litter  and  refuse  —  could  it  always  have  been  like  that' 
She  did  not  know  what  made  her  so  uncomfortable. 

When  she  had  reached  her  rooms  she  wondered  why  the  window 
were  not  open,  although  open  windows  at  that  season  of  the  yeai 
except  on  Friday  mornings,  when  the  house  was  being  made  read; 
to  receive  Sabbath  the  Queen,  were  unknown  in  the  Malkin  house 
hold.  She  had  to  have  air.  She  pushed  up  the  window,  the  lac 
curtains  flapped,  and  Esther  was  annoyed  at  the  smell  of  dust.  Sh 
put  her  head  out  the  window,  and  noticed  for  the  first  time  that  th' 
electric  street  lamps  were  all  on  one  side  of  the  street,  and  sh 
wondered  were  they  like  that  on  all  streets.  Then  she  recalled  tha 
there  were  four  rows  of  electric  lights  on  the  Boulevard,  two  row 
on  either  side.  She  closed  the  window,  and  sat  down  on  the  edg 
of  the  bed.  The  light  of  the  street  lamps,  coming  in  through  th 
window,  did  not  reach  to  where  she  sat;  but  she  did  not  light  th 
gas.    She  wanted  to  sit  in  the  dark.    She  was  tired. 

Long  after  Esther  fell  asleep  that  night  her  father  and  mothe 
still  talked  of  her  and  the  ball. 

"All  the  biggest  swells  go  to  that  ball,"  Mrs.  Malkin  informe 
her  husband  in  a  tone  as  if  she  had  known  of  it  all  her  life,  tha 
her  hard-headed  husband  might  not  doubt  it.  "Everybody  from  th 
Boulevard.  And  it  ain't  as  if  she  didn't  have  nobody  there.  Molli 
Mandel  will  be  there  to  look  after  her,  and  Mollie  can  do  a  whol 
lot  where  she  wants  to.  Such  a  fine  chance!  All  the  biggest  swell 
from  the  Boulevard." 

"The  foolsih  woman  what  you  are!  Right  away  you  got  t 
take  and  get  scared!  Swells  they  are  what  go  to  that  ball,  yes 
What  kind  of  swells  are  they,  tell  me,  hey?  Wliat,  you  don't  know 
What  are  you  trying  to  talk  yourself  into?  As  if  everybody  didn- 
know  them  swells.  Tell  me,  how  long  is  it  since  they  moved  awa: 
from  Maxwell  Street,  and  Union  Street,  and  Liberty  Street,  hey? 

Mr.  Malkin  hurled  these  statements  at  his  wife  with  greate 


The    Little    Review  59 

violence  than  the  occasion  demanded,  and  he  was  in  part  aware  of 
it.  He  raged  not  merely  to  cover  a  retreat  from  a  position  he  was 
not  able  to  defend  —  his  wife  clearly  had  him  at  a  disadvantage 
and  he  knew  it.  He  had  given  too  little  thought  to  his  daughter's 
future,  an  offence  much  more  heinous  in  the  ghetto  than  elsewhere. 
But  he  was  a  weak  man,  with  little  of  originality  and  daring.  His 
success,  even  When  measured  by  Maxwell  Street  standards,  was  the 
result  of  neither  his  foresight  nor  courage.  Countrymen  of  his, 
by  the  tens  of  thousands,  had  crowded  about  him  that  they  might 
ease  the  violence  of  the  change  in  their  lives;  that  they  might  share 
in  the  greater  security  of  kindred  presence,  in  the  comfort  of  fa- 
miliar speech  and  manners.  The  thousands  of  the  ghetto  had  en- 
abled him  to  profit  by  his  peasant  grubbing  instinct,  to  exploit  the 
racial  tenacity  of  himself,  his  wife  and  his  daughter.  He  blustered 
thus  violently  that  he  might  dissipate  his  resentment  of  himself  for 
his  past  behavior.  Now  that  his  wife  had  thrown  him  into  a  panic, 
he  felt  that  his  neglect  would  surely  have  led  to  disaster,  but  for  the 
kindly  intervention  of  Mollie  Mandel.  His  irritation  was  great,  be- 
cause the  love  he  bore  his  daughter  was  great,  and  it  called  for  many 
word  to  relieve  him. 

"Let  somebody  mention  swells  to  you,  and  right  away  you  got 
to  take  and  get  scared.  By  you  everybody  is  a  swell  what  lives  on 
the  Boulevard.  And  maybe  if  he's  got  to  have  a  silver  dollar  he 
runs  around  like  a  poisoned  mouse. 

"You  say  Mollie  Mandel  is  going  to  look  after  Estherkin.  Sure, 
that's  very  nice,  and  we  got  to  remember  to  thank  her  for  it.  But 
that's  nothing  to  get  scared  for!  Sure  Estherkin's  got  to  go  to  the 
ball,  how  else?  Who  said  no?  Did  you  hear  me  say  no,  she  can't 
go,  tell  me?  What  one  must  one  must,  that's  all.  And  as  for  a 
dress  and  things —  Nu!  When  you're  going  to  be  hanged  by  one 
foot  you  may  as  well  be  hanged  by  the  other  also.  Maybe  we  can 
as  well  afford  it  as  most  of  them  swells,  thank  God — if  she's  really 
got  to  have  them.    It  ain't  too  late  yet!" 

"Sure,  sure,  it  ain't  too  late  yet,"  Mrs.  Malkin  agreed  readily. 
She  had  feared  a  harder  tussle.  She  herself  was  more  troubled  than 
she  had  dared  disclose  to  her  husband.  The  ball  seemed  to  her  a 
dangerous  undertaking,  even  though  she  did  not  know  where  danger 
might  lie.  And,  as  much  to  allay  her  own  fears  as  to  prevent  her 
husband  from  changing  his  mind,  she  added  quickly:     "Thank  God, 


6o  The    Little    Review 


thank  God,  it  ain't  too  late  yet!  But  we  got  to  look  around.  An- 
other year,  and  another  year,  and  maybe  it  is  too  lae,  God  forbid!" 

The  following  day,  like  all  previous  days  in  endless  number, 
began  for  Esther  wtith  the  ringing  of  the  alarm  clock  in  the  darkness 
of  her  bedroom.  She  felt  the  same  worn  carpet  underfoot,  the  same 
damp  clothing;  the  waist  she  had  washed  before  going  to  bed  hung 
limp  on  the  newspaper  over  the  back  of  the  chair,  where  it  would 
remain  until  the  following  bedtime  to  be  ironed  —  thus  it  had  al- 
ways been.  But  this  morning  Esther  found  it  hard  to  finish  dress- 
ing, and  had  to  press  her  cheek  against  the  foot-end  of  her  iron  bed. 

The  rattle  and  clack  of  a  milk  wagon  made  her  jvmip.  She  was 
late!  She  had  always  aimed  to  have  the  shop  open  and  the  gas 
lighted  by  the  time  the  milk-man  came  around;  but  now  she  had  to 
waste  still  more  time,  hunting  for  the  little  hairpins  she  had  somehow 
misplaced  when  undressing. 

She  walked  heavily  down  the  stairs.  Another  day  of  bread  and 
cakes,  cakes  and  bread,  the  same  as  it  had  always  been  all  the  days 
of  her  life  as  far  back  as  she  could  remember.  When  she  stepped 
out  into  the  gray  of  the  cold  street  there  appeared  to  be  something 
ghostly  about  it.  She  did  not  know  that  she  had  but  just  begun  to 
notice  the  world  about  her. 

The  thought  of  the  ball  popped  into  her  head  as  soon  as  slie 
entered  the  shop.  Had  her  mother  talked  to  her  father  about  it? 
What  had  he  said?  She  just  knew  that  he  had  refused  to  listen  to 
it  at  all.  She  did  not  know  whether  she  cared  or  not.  No,  she 
was  glad.  Why  should  she  befuddle  her  own  head  with  balls  and 
things!  She  listened  for  her  mother's  step.  She  kept  asking  of  old 
customers  was  there  anything  they  wanted.  She  miscounted  cakes, 
and  astonished  women  kept  asking  her  what  had  suddenly  got  in- 
to her. 

She  heard  her  mother's  heavy  tread  on  the  stairs  and  started 
for  the  door  to  meet  her,  but  checked  herself  in  time,  and  busied  her- 
self with  rearranging  the  loaves.  It  was  a  long  time  before  her 
mother  would  say  anything.     Finally  she  said: 

"The  father  says  we  got  to  go  to  the  ball." 

"We  go  to  the  ball?  Yes?"  Esther  was  sure  she  had  heard 
aright,  but  wished  her  mother  vvould  say  it  again.  Then  she  read 
confirmation  of  the  good  news  in  her  mother's  face,  and  added 
quietly:     "Maybe  that  will  be  nice." 

{to  be  continued) 


The    Little    Review  6i 


TETELESTAl 

Conrad  Aiken 
I 

How  shall  we  praise  the  magnificence  of  the  dead. 

The  great  man  humbled,  the  haughty  brought  to  dust? 

Is  there  a  horn  we  should  not  blow  as  proudly 

for  the  meanest  of  us  all,  who  creeps  his  days, 

Guarding  his  heart  from  blows,  to  die  obscurely?  .  .  . 

I  am  no  king,  have  laid  no  kingdoms  waste, 

Taken  to  princes  captive,  led  no  triumphs 

Of  weeping  women  through  long  walls  of  trumpets   ; 

Say  rather  I  am  no  one,  or  an  atom: 

Say  rather,  two  great  gods  in  a  vault  of  starlight 

Play  ponderingly  at  chess;  and  at  the  game's  end 

One  of  the  pieces,  shaken,  falls  to  the  floor 

And  runs  to  the  darkest  corner;  and  that  piece 

Forgotten  there,  left  motionless,  is  I  .  .  . 

Say  that  I  have  no  name,  no  gifts,  no  power, 

Am  only  one  of  millions;  mostly  silent; 

One  who  came  with  eyes  and  hands  and  a  heart, 

Looked  on  beauty,  and  loved  it,  and  then  left  it. 

Say  that  the  fates  of  time  and  space  obscured  me, 

Led  me  a  thousand  ways  to  pain,  bemused  me, 

Wrapi>ed  me  in  ugliness;  and  like  great  spiders 

Despatched  me  at  their  leisure  .  .  .    Well,  what  then? 

Should  I  not  hear,  as  I  lie  down  in  dust. 

The  horns  of  glory  blowing  above  my  burial? 

II 

Morning  and  evening  opened  and  closed  above  me, 
Houses  were  built  above  me,  trees  let  fall 
Yellowing  leaves  upon  me,  hands  of  ghosts; 
Rain  has  showered  its  arrowns  of  silver  up>on  me 
Seeking  my  heart;  winds  have  roared  and  tossed  me; 
Music  in  long  blue  waves  of  sound  has  borne  me 
A  helpless  weed  to  shores  of  unthought  silence; 
Time,  above  me,  within  me,  crashed  its  gongs 


62  T he  Lit  tie  R  e  view 


Of  terrible  warning,  sifting  the  dust  of  death; 

And  here  I  lie.     Blow  now  your  horns  of  glory 

Harshly  over  my  flesh,  you  trees,  you  waters! 

You  stars  and  suns,  Canopus,  Deneb,  Rigel 

Let  me  as  I  lie  down,  here  in  this  dust. 

Hear,  far  off,  your  whispered  salutation! 

Roar  now  above  my  decaying  flesh,  you  winds, 

Whirl  out  your  earth-scents  over  this  body,  tell  me 

Of  ferns,  and  stagnant  pools,  wild  roses,  hillsides! 

Anoint  me,  rain,  let  crash  your  silver  arrows 

On  this  hard  flesh!     I  am  the  one  who  named  you 

I  lived  in  you  and  now  I  die.  in  you: 

I,   your  son,   your   daughter,    treader  of   music. 

Lie  broken,  conquered   .   .   .     Let  me  not  fall   in  silence. 

ni 

I,  the  reatless  one;   the  circler  of  circles; 

Herdsman  and  roper  of  stars,  who  could  not  capture 

The  secret  of  self;  I  who  was  tyrant  to  weaklings, 

Striked  of  children;  destroyer  of  women;  corrupter 

Of  innocent  dreamers,  and  laugher  at  beauty;  I 

Too  easily  brought  to  tears  and  weaknes  by  music, 

Baffled  and  broken  by  loves,  the  helpless  beholder 

Of  the  war  in  my  heart  of  desire  with  desire,  the  struggle 

Of  hatred  with  love,  terror  with  hunger;  I 

Who  laughed  without  knowing  the  cause  of  my  laughter,  who  grew 

Without  wishing  to  grow,  a  servant  to  my  own  body; 

Loved  without  reason  the  laughter  and  flesh  of  a  woman. 

Enduring  such  torments  to  find  her!     I  who  at  last 

/jrow  weaker,  struggle  more  feebly,  relent  in  my  purpose, 

Choose  for  my  triumph  an  easier  end,  look  backward 

At  earlier  conquests;  or  caught  in  the  webs,  cry  out 

In  a  sudden  and  empty  despair  —  'Tetelestai!' 

Pity  me,  now!     I,  who  was  arrogant  beg  you! 

Tell  me,  as  I  lie  down  that  I  was  courageous. 

Blow  horns  of  victory  now  as  I  reel  and  am  vanquished; 

Shatter  the  sky  with  trumpets  above  my  grave!    :  .  . 

IV 

.  ,  .  Look!     This  flesh  how  it  crumbles  to  dust  and  is  blown! 


The     Little     Review  63 


'hese  bones,  how  they  grind  in  a  granite  of  frost  and  are  nothing! 
Phis  skull  —  how  it  yawns  for  a  flicker  of  time  in  the  darkness 
('et  laughs  not  and  sees  not!  it  is  crushed  by  a  hammer  of  sunlight, 
Vnd  the  hands  are  destroyed  .  .  .  Press  down  through  the  leaves 

of  the  jasmine 
)ig  through  the  interlaced  roots  —  nevermore  will  you  find  me: 

was  no  better  than  dust,  yet  you  cannot  replace  me  .  .  . 
Pake  the  soft  dust  in  your  hand  —  does  it  stir,  does  it  sing? 
ias  it  lips  and  a  heart?     Does  it  open  its  eyes  to  the  sun? 
Does  it  run.  does  it  dream,  does  it  burn  with  a  secret,  or  tremble 
n  terror  of  death?     Or  ache  with  tremendous  decisions?   .   .   . 
Jsten!   ...     It  says!     'I  lean  by  the  river.     The  willows 
Kre  yellowed  with  bud.     White  clouds  roar  up  from  the  south 
^nd  darken  the  ripples;  yet  they  cannot  darken  my  heart, 
\'or  the  face  like  a  star  in  my  heart!  .  .  .  Rain  falls  on  the  water 
\nd  pelts   it  and  rings  it  with  silver.     The  willow-trees  glisten, 
The  sparrows  chirp  under  the  eaves;  but  the  face  in  my  heart 
s  a  secret  of  music  ...    I  wait  in  the  rain  and  am  silent.' 
jsten  again!  ...    It  says:     'I  have  worked,  I  am  tired, 
The  pencil  dulls  in  my  hand,  I  see  through  the  window 
Walls  upon  walls  of  windows  with  faces  behind  them, 
smoke  floating  up  to  the  sky,  an  ascension  of  sea-gulls. 
[  am  tired.    I  have  struggled  in  vain,  my  decision  was  fruitless, 
Why,   then  do  I  wait?     with   darkness,  so  easy,  at  hand!    .   .   . 
But  to-morrow  .  .  .  perhaps  ...  I  will  wait  and  endure  till  to-morrow! ' 
Or  again:     'It  is  dark.     The  decision  is  made.     I  am  vanquished 
By  terror  of  life.     The  walls  mount  slowly  about  me 
In  coldness.     I  had  not  the  courage.     I  was  forsaken. 
I  cried  out.  was  answered  by  silence  .  .  .  Tetelestai !  .  .  .  ' 

V 

Hear  how  it  babbles!  —  Blow  the  dust  out  of  your  hand, 

With  its  voices  and  visions,  tread  on  it,  forget  it,  turn  homeward 

With  dreams  in  your  brain  .   .   .  This,  then,  is  the  humble,  the 

nameless,  — 
The  lover,  the  husband  and  father,  the  struggler  with  shadows, 
The  one  who  went  down  under  shoutings  of  chaos,  the  weakling 
Who  cried  h's  'forsaken!'  like  Christ  on  the  darkening  hilltop!  .  .  . 
This,  then,  is  the  one  who  implores  as  he  dwindles  to  silence, 
A  fanfare  of  glory  .  .  .  And  which  of  you  dares  to  deny  him! 


64  T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review 

CONCERTS    INTIMES 

A   Series    of  Intimate  R p c i, t  a  1  s 
and  b 

Chamber    Music    Concerts 

Sunday  afternoons 
at  the  Provincetown  Playhouse 
133  MacDougal  Street 

.    Subscription  tickets  for  seven  concerts    $4.00 
Single  tickets    75  cents 

Address  all  communications  and  make  checks  payable 

to  Milton  P.  Schreyer,  Provincetown  Players, 

133  MacDougal  Street,  New  York  City. 


THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF   PIANOS 

313    nFTH   AVENUE 
NEW   YORK 


THE   SUNWISE  TURN 
2    East    31st    Street 

In  April,  1916,  we  sent  out  the  first  announcement  of  our  aims 
.u,a  intentions  in  regard  to  selling  modern  books  and  art.    In  Novem- 
ber 191 7,  we  tried  to  recount  our  achievements  and  new  hopes.    Now 
Xovember,  19 18,  at  a  moment  of  solemn  import  for  the  world  we 
:.h  to  remind  our  friends  and  explain  to  those  who  have  not  yet 
heard  of  the  "Sunwise  Turn"  that  in  our  third  year  we  see  the  task 
that  we  have  set  ourselves  to  do  more  clearly  than  ever  as  a  factor 
value  in  the  new  age. 
Many  a  time  in  these  difficult  war  years  we  have  nearly  given 
up  under  the  financial  struggle,  but  at  the  darkest  moment  would 
iiie  spme  visible  sign  that  the  Sunwise  Turn  is  needed  and  that 
must  keep  going  on  some  way  for  tlie  few  until  the  many  would 
ne  to  us  and  not  only  make  our  work  count  for  more  but  make 
easier  for  us  to  do  it  well. 

We  are  fighting  the  fight  for  the  small  bookshop.    We  want  to 

just  one  of  a  great  number  of  bookshops  that  will  help  increase 

'  number  of  good  books  read  by  every  American  to  a  figure  for 

L  pride,  and  make  it  impossible  for  a  man  in  Nevada  or  Maine, 

)  to  Rico  or  Hawaii  to  remain  ignorant  of  what  John  Dewey  or 

>bert  Frost  or  Arthur  B.  Davies  or  any  of  the  great  Americans  is 

ing;  to  make  it  certain  that  he  shall  have  the  chance  to  know  about 

the  special   forms  through  which  our  common  life  is  finding 

i)ression;  to  know  that  the  outlook  for  democracy  is  hopeless  unless 

controlling  institutions  of  society  are  studied  and  improved. 

We  want  to  disseminate  not  "Books  of  Knowledge"  but  books 

thought  to  help  awaken  America  to  broad  issues  of  human  func- 

m  and  save  her  from  the  fatuity  of  palliative  opportunism. 

Twelve  books  no  one  should  leave  unread: 

Democracy  After  the  War /•  -1-  Hobson 

r/t€  Nature  of  Peace Thor stein  Veblen 

Democracy  and  Education John  Dewey 

If-Government  in  Industry   G.  D.  H.  Cole 

. . ational  Guilds ^-  ^  -Orage 

The  Dance  of  Siva Dr.  Ananda  Coomaraswamy 

*^yl       Clive  Bell 

rocesses  of  History Taggert 

The  Housing  Problem Whitaker,  Ackerman,  et  al. 

Education  after  the  War J-  H-  Badley 

The  League  of  Nations Brailsford 

Creative  Impulse  in  Industry Helen  Marot 


Announcement 


The  last  number  of  the  Little  Review,  May  1917-18, 
(unbound)  is  now  selling  at  1^3.00.    Special  numbers 
I'Yench  number  and  the  Henry  James, — at  60  cents. 

In  England  the  volume  is  [2s.     Special  numbers 


No  Oilier  Typewritor 
CAnDoThiy-- 

Enable    the    amateur    to   write    as    neat-appearing    letters 
from    the    very    beginning    as    tJte    experienced    operator 

The   only   typewriter   that   can   do   this   Is   the 

Multiplex  Hammond 

"Writing  Machine" 

Many  Typewriters  in  One 


Two  styles  of  type  or  two 
different  languages  always  on  the 
MULTIPLEX.  Any  other  two 
substituted  in  a  few  seconds. 

Fill  in  the  coupon  and  mail  us 
today.  We  will  send  you  our  new 
PORTABLE   FOLDER. 


HAMMOND  TYPEWRITER  COMPANY 

558A  East  69th  Street  —  New  York  City 


fasti:    this  on    a    postal 

Please  send  literature  without  obligation  to: 

Name  

Address    .. 

L.   R. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO  COMPROMISE  WITH  THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


The  Dreaming  of  the  Bones 
by 
William  Butler  Yeats 


THE   LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE   THAT   IS    READ    BY   THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  THE  OTHERS 


JANUARY,    1919 

The  Dreaming  of  the  Bones     William  Butler  Yeats 

Mary  Olivier :  A  Life  May  Sinclair 

"Exiles" :   A   Discussion      John  Rodker 

Israel  Solon 
Samuel    A.    Tannenhaum 

jh. 

Ulysses,   Episode  VIII  James  Joyce 

The   Boulevard,  II  Israel  Solon 

Note  on  "The*Dreaming  of  the  Bones"  /.    Q. 
The   Reader   Critic 

Copyright,    1918,   by   Margaret  Anderion 

MARGARET  ANDERSON,   Editor 

EZRA   POUND,  London  Editor 
JULES   ROMAINS,    French   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street^  New  York 

Foreign  office: 
5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London  W.  8. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  12/-  a  year 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  P.  0.,  New  York,  N.  Y., 
under  the  act  March  j,  iSyg. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


I 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  JANUARY   1919  No.  9. 

THE   DREAMING   OF   THE    BONES* 

William    Butler   Yeats 

The  stage  is  any  bare  place  in  a  room  close  to  the  wall.  A 
screen  with  a  pattern  of  mountain  and  sky  can  stand  against 
the  wall  or  a  curtain  with  a  like  pattern  hang  upon  it,  but  the 
pattern  must  only  symbolize  or  suggest. 

One  MUSICIAN  enters  and  then  tw\0  others;  the  first  stands  singing 
while  the  others  take  their  places.  Then  all  three  sit  down 
against  the  wall  by  their  instruments,  which  are  already  there 
—  a  drtcm,  a  zither,  and  a  flute.  Or  tJtey  unfold  a  cloth  as  in 
"The  Hawk's  Well",  while  the  instruments  are  carried  in. 

FIRST  MUSICIAN 

(Or  ALL  THE  MUSICIANS  singing) 

Why  does  my  heart  beat  so? 
Did  not  a  shadow  pass? 
It  passed  but  a  moment  ago. 
Who  can  have  trod  in  the  grass? 
What  rogue  is  night-wandering? 
Have  not  old  writers  said 
That  dizzy  dreams  can  spring 
From  the  dry  bones  of  the  dead? 
And  many  a  night  it  seems 
That  all  the  valley  fills 
With  those  fantastic  dreams, 
They  overflow  the  hills. 
So  passionate  is  a  shade, 
Like  wine  that  fill  to  the  top 
A  grey-green  cup  of  jade, 
Or  maybe  an  agate  cup. 


Copyright,  1918,  by   William  Butler   Yeats.  See  note  on  page  61. 


The    Little    Review 


{speaking)     The  hour  before  dawn  and  the  moon  covered  up. 
The  httle  village  ®f  Abbey  is  covered  up; 
The  little  narrow  trodden  way  that  runs 
From  the  white  road  to  the  Abbey  of  Corcomroe 
Is  covered  up;  and  all  about  the  hills 
Are  like  a  circle  of  agate  or  of  Jade. 
Somewhere  among  great  rocks  on  the  scarce  grass 
Birds  cry;  they  cry  the'r  loneliness. 
Even  the  sunlight  can  be  lonely  here. 
Even  hot  noon  is  lonely.    I  hear  a  footfall  — 
A  young  man  with  a  lantern  comes  this  way. 
He  seems  an  Aran  fisher,  for  he  wears 
The  flannel  bawneen  and  the  cow-hide  shoe. 
He  stumbles  wearily,  and  stumbling  prays. 

A  YOUNG  MAN  ENTERS,  (praying  in  Irish) 

CHORUS 

Once  more  the  b'rds  cry  in  their  loneliness,     - 
But  now  they  wheel  about  our  heads;  and  now 
They  have  dropped  on  the  grey  stone' to  the  north-east. 

A   YOUNG  MAN  and  a  YOUNG  GIRL 

in  the  costume  oj  a  past  time  come  in. 

They  wear  heroic  masks. 

YOUNG   MAN    (in  haivneen,  raising  his  lantern) 

Who  is  there?    I  cannot  see  what  you  are  like,  Come 
to  the  light. 

STRANGER 

But  what  have  you  to  fear? 

YOUNG     MAN 

And  why  have  you  come  creeping  through  the  dark? 

{THE  GIRL  bloivs  out  lantern) 
The  wind  has  blown  my  lantern  out.    Where  are  you? 


The    Little    Review 


I  saw  a  pair  of  heads  against  the  sky 

And  lost  them  after.    But  you  are  in  the  right, 

I  should  not  be  afraid  in  County  Clare; 

And  "should  be"  or  "should  not  be"  have  no  choice; 

I  have  to  put  myself  into  your  hands, 

Now  that  my  candle's  out. 

STRANGER 

You  have  fought  in  Dublin? 

YOUNG     MAN 

I  was  in  the  Post  Office,  and  if  taken 
I  shall  be  put  against  a  wall  and  shot. 

STRANGER 

You  know  some  place  of  refuge,  have  some  plan 
Or  friend  who  will  come  to  meet  you? 

YOUNG     MAN 

I  am  to  lie 
At  daybreak  on  the  mountain  and  keep  watch 
Until  an  Aran  corricle  puts  in 
At  Muckanish  or  at  the  rocky  shore 
Under  Finvarra,  but  would  break  my  neck 
If  I  went  stumbling  there  alone  in  the  dark. 

STRANGER 

We  know  the  pathways  that  the  sheep  tread  out. 
And  all  the  hiding-places  of  the  hills," 
And  that  they  had  better  hiding-places  once. 

YOUNG     MAN 

You'd  say  they  had  better  before  English  robbers 
Cut  down  the  trees  or  set  them  upon  fire 


The    Little    Review 


For  fear  their  owners  might  find  shelter  there. 
What  is  that  sound? 

STRANGER 

An  old  horse  gone  astray. 
He  has  been  wandering  on  the  road  all  night. 

YOUNG     MAN 

I  took  him  for  a  man  and  horse.      Police 
(Are  out  upon  the  roads.     In  the  late  Rising 
I  think  there  was  no  man  of  us  but  hated 
To  fire  at  soldiers  who  but  did  their  duty 
And  were  not  of  our  race,  but  when  a  man 
Is  born  in  Ireland  and  of  Irish  stock 
When  he  takes  part  against  us  — 

STRANGER 

I  will  put  you  safe. 
No  living  man  shall  set  his  eyes  upon  you. 
I  will  not  answer  for  the  dead. 

YOUNG     MAN 
The  dead? 

STRANGER 

For  certain  days  the  stones  where  you  must  lie 
Have  in  the  hour  before  the  break  of  day 
Been  haunted. 

YOUNG  MAN      -^ 

I  was  not  born  at  midnight. 

STRANGER 

Many  a  man  born  in  the  full  daylight 

Can  see  them  plain,  will  pass  them  on  the  high-road 


The    Little    Review 


Or  in  the  crowded  market-place  of  the  town, 
And  never  know  that  they  have  passed. 

YOUNG     MAN 

My  Grandam 
Would  have  it  they  did  penance  everywhere 
Or  lived  through  their  old  lives  again. 

STRANGER 

In  a  dream; 
And  some  for  &,n  old  scruple  must  hang  spitted 
Upon  the  swaying  tops  of  lofty  trees; 
Some  are  consumed  in  fires,  some  withered  up 
By  hail  and  sleet  out  of  the  wintry  North, 
And  some  but  live  through  their  old  lives  again. 

YOUNG     MAN 

Well,  let  them  dream  into  what  shape  they  please 
And  fill  waste  mountains  with  the  invisible  tumult 
Of  the  fantastic  conscience.     I  have  no  dread. 
They  cannot  put  me  into  jail  or  shoot  me, 
And,  seeing  that  their  blood  has  returned  to  fields 
That  have  grown  red  from  drinking  blood  like  mine, 
They  would  not  if  they  could  betray. 

STRANGER 

Runs  to  the  ruined  Abbey  of  Corcomroe  —  this  pathway; 

The  Abbey  passed,  we  are  soon  among  the  stone 

And  shall  be  at  the  ridge  before  the  cocks 

Of  Augenish  or  Balyvelehan 

Or  grey  Aughmans  shake  their  wings  and  cry. 

{They  go  round  the  stage  once) 

FIRST  MUSICIAN  (speaking) 
They've  passed  the  shallow  well  and  the  flat  stone 


The    Little    Review 


Fouled  by  the  drinking  cattle,  the  narrow  lane 
Where  mourners  for  five  centuries  have  carried 
Noble  or  peasant  to  his  burial. 
An  owl  is  crying  out  above  their  heads. 

{singing)     Why  should  the  heart  take  fright? 

What  sets  it  beating  so?  

The  bitter  sweetness  of  the  night ' 
Has  made  it  but  a  lonely  thing. 
Red  bird  of  March,  begin  to  crow, 
Ujp  with  the  neck  and  clap  the  wing, 
Red  cock,  and  crow. 

{They  go  once  round  the  stage) 

{speaking)     And  now  they  have  climbed  through  the  long 
grassy  field 

And  passed  the  ragged  thorn  trees  and  the  gap 
In  the  ancient  hedge;  and  the  tomb-nested  owl 
At  the  foot's  level  beats  with  a  vague  wing. 

{singing)     My  head  is  in  a  cloud; 

I'd  let  the  whole  world  go; 
My  rascal  heart  is  proud, 
Remembering  and  remembering. 
Red  bird  of  March,  begin  to  crow, 
Up  with  the  neck  and  clap  the  wing, 
Red  cock,  and  crow. 

{They  go  round  the  stage  once) 

{speaking)     They  are  among  the  stones  above  the  ash, 
Above  the  briar  and  thorn  and  the  scarce  grass. 
Hidden  amid  the  shadow"  far  below  them, 
The  cat-headed  bird  is  crying  out. 

(singing)     The  dreaming  bones  cry  out 
Because  the  nig-ht  winds  blow 
And  heaven's  a  cloudy  blot; 
Calamity  can  have  its  fling. 
Red  bird  of  March,  begin  to  crow, 
Up  with  the  neck  and  clap  the  wing. 
Red  cock,  and  crow. 


The     Little     Review 


STRANGER 

We're  almost  at  the  summit  and  can  rest. 
The  road  is  a  faint  shadow  tliere,  and  there 
The  abbey  lies  amid  its  broken  tombs. 
In  the  old  days  we  should  have  heard  a  bell 
Calling  the  monks  before  day  broke  to  prayer, 
And  when  the  day  has  broken  on  the  ridge, 
The  crowing  of  its  cocks. 

YOUNG     MAN 

s     Is  there  no  house 
Famous  for  sanctity  or  architectural  beauty 
In  Clare  or  Kerry,  or  in  all  wide  Connaught 
The  enemy  has  not  unroofed? 

STRANGER 

Close  to  the  altar 
Broken  by  wind  and  frost  and  worn  by  time 
Donnogh  O'Brien  has  a  tomb,  a  name  in  Latin. 
He  wore  fine  clothes  and  knew  the  secrets  of  women, 
But  he  rebelled  against  the  king  of  Thomond 
And  died  in  his  youth, 

YOUNG     MAN 

And  why  should  he  rebel? 
The  King  of  Thomond  was  his  rightful  master. 
It  was  men  like  Donogh  who  made  Ireland  weak  — 
My  curse  on  al'l  that  troop,  and  when  I  die 
I'll  lea^'e  my  body,  if  I  have  any  choice, 
Far  from  his  ivy  tod  and  his^owl.    Have  those 
Who,  if  your  tale  is  true,  work  out  a  penance 
Upon  the  mountain-top  where  I  am  to  hide, 
Come  from  the  Abbey  graveyard? 

THE     GIRL 

They  have  not  that  luck, 


The    Little    Review 


But  are  more  lonely,  those  that  are  buried  there. 
Warred  in  the  heat  of  the  blood;  if  they  were  rebels 
Some  momentary  impulse  made  them  rebels 
Or  the  commandment  of  some  petty  king 
Who  hated  Thomond;  being  but  common  sinners. 
No  callers  in  of  the  aliens  from  oversea, 
They  and  their  enemies  of  Thomond's  party 
Mix  in  a  brief  dream  battle  above  their  bones 
Or  make  one  drove  and  drift  in  amity, 
Or  in  the  hurry  of  the  heavenly  round 
Forget  their  earthly  names.    These  are  alone, 
Being  accursed. 

YOUNG     MAN 

And  if  what  seems  is  true 
And  there  are  more  upon  the  other  side 
Than  on  this  side  of  death,  many  a  ghost 
Must  meet  them  face  to  face  and  pass  the  word 
Even  upon  this  grey  and  desolate  hill. 

YOUNG    GIRL 

Until  this  hour  no  ghost  or  living  man 
Has  spoken,  though  seven  centuries  have  run 
Since  they,  weary  of  life  and  of  men's  eyes, 
Flung  down  their  bones  in  some  forgotten  place, 
Being  accursed. 

YOUNG     MAN 

I  have  heard  that  there  are  souls 
Who,  having  sinned  after  a  monstrous  fa^ion. 
Take  on  them,  being  dead,  a  monstrous  image 
To  drive  the  living,  should  they  meet  its  face. 
Crazy,  and  be  a  terror  to  the  dead. 

YOUNG    GIRL 

But  these 
Were  comely  even  in  their  middle  life, 


The    Little    Review 


And  carry,  now  that  they  are  dead,  the  image 
Of  their  first  youth,  for  it  was  in  that  youth 
Their  sin  began. 

YOUNG     MAN 

I  have  heard  of  angry  ghosts 
Who  wander  in  a  wilful  solitude. 

THE     GIRL 

These  have  no  thought  but  love,  nor  joy 

But  that  upon  the  instant  when  their  penance 

Draws  to  its  height  and  when  two  hearts  are  wrung 

Nearest  to  breaking,  if  hearts  of  shadows  break, 

His  eyes  can  mix  with  hers,  nor  any  pang 

That  is  so  bitter  as  that  double  glance. 

Being  accursed. 

YOUNG     MAN 

But  what  is  this  strange  penance 
That  when  their  eyes  have  met  can  ring  them  most? 

THE     GIRL 

Tfiough  eyes  can  meet  their  lips  can  never  meet. 

YOUNG     MAN 

And  yet  it  seems  they  wander  side  by  side. 
But  doubtless  you  would  say  that  when  lips  meet 
And  have  not  living  nerves,  it  is  no  meeting. 

THE     GIRL 

Although  they  have  no  blood  or  living  nerves 
Who  once  lay  warm  and  live  the  live-long  night 
In  one  another's  arms;  and  know  their  part 
In  life,  being  now  but  of  the  people  of  dreams, 
Is  a  dream's  part;  although  they  are  but  shadows 


10  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


Hovering  between  a  thorn  tree  and  a  stone 

Who  have  heaped  up  night  on  winged  night;  although 

No  shade  however  harried  and  consumed 

Would  change  his  own  calamity  for  theirs, 

Their  manner  of  life  were  blessed  could  their  lips 

A  moment  meet;  but  when  he  has  bent  his  head 

Close  to  her  head  or  hand  would  slip  in  hand 

The  memory  of  their  crime  flows  up  between 

And  drives  them  apart. 

■"  YOUNG     MAN 

The  memory  of  a  crime  — 
He  took  her  from  a  husband's  house  it  may  be, 
But  does  the  penance  for  a  passionate  sin 
Last  for  so  many  centuries? 

THE      GIRL 

No,  no, 
The  man  she  chose,  the  man  she  was  chosen  by. 
Cared  little  and  cares  little  from  Whose  house 
They  fled  towards  dawn  amid  the  flights  of  arrows. 
Or  that  it  was  a  husband's  and  a  king's; 
And  how  if  that  were  all  could  she  lack  friends 
On  crowded  roads  or  on  the  unpeopled  hill? 
Helen  herself  had  opened  wide  the  door 
Where  night  by  night  she  dreams  herself  awake 
And  gathers  to  her  breast  a  dreaming  man. 

YOUNG     MAN 

What  crime  can  stay  so  in  the  memory? 
What  crime  can  keep  apart  the  lips  of  lovers 
Wandering  and  alone? 

THE     GIRL 

Her  king  and  lover 
Was  overthrown  in  battle  by  her  husband, 
And  for  her  sake  and  for  his  own,  being  blind 


The    Little    Review  ii 


And  bitter  and  bitterly  in  love,  he  brought 
A  foreign  army  from  across  the  sea. 

YOUNG     MAN 

You  speak  of  Dermot  and  of  Dervorgilla 
Who  brought  the  Norman  in? 

THE     GIRL 

Ves,  yes  I  spoke 
Of  that  most  miserable,  most  accursed  pair 
Who  sold  their  country  into  slavery,  and  yet 
They  were  not  wholly  miserable  and  accursed, 
If  somebody  of  their  race  at  last  would  say 
'I  have  forgiven  them'. 

YOUNG     MAN 

Oh,  never,  never 
Will  Dermot  and  Dervorgilla  be  forgiven. 

THE     GIRL 

If  someone  of  their  race  forgave  at  last 
Lip  would  be  pressed  on  lip. 

YOUNG     MAN 

Oh,  never,  never 
Will  Dermot  and  Dervogilla  be  forgiven 
You  have  told  your  story  well,  so  well  indeed 
I  could  not  help  but  fall  into  the  mood 
And  for  a  while  believe  that  it  was  true 
Or  half  believe,  but  better  push  on  now. 
The  horizon  to  the  East  is  growing  bright. 

{They  go  once  round  stage) 
So  here  we're  on  the  summit.    I  can  see 
The  Aran  Islands,  Connemare  Hills, 
And  Galway  in  the  breaking  light;  there  too 
The  enemy  has  toppled  wall  and  roof 


12  The    Little    Review 

And  torn  from  ancient  walls  to  boil  his  pot 

The  oaken  panelling  that  had  been  dear 

To  generations  of  children  and  old  men. 

But  for  that  pair  for  whom  you  would  have  my  pardon 

It  might  be  now  like  Bayeux  or  like  Caen 

Or  little  Italian  town  amid  its  wa;ll; 

For  though  we  have  neither  coal  nor  iron  ore 

To  make  us  rich  and  cover  heaven  with  smoke, 

Our  country,  if  that  crime  were  uncommitted, 

Had  been  most  beautiful.    Why  do  you  dance? 

Why  do  you  gaze,  and  with  so  passionate  eyes, 

One  on  the  other  and  then  turn  away, 

Covering  your  eyes  and  weaving  it  in  a  dance? 

Who  are  you?     What,  are  you?     You  are  not  natural. 

THE     GIRL 

Seven  hundred  years  our  lips  have  never  met. 

YOUNG    MAN 

Why  do  you  look  so  strangely  at  one  another, 
So  strangely  and  so  sweetly? 

THE     GIRL 

Seven  hundred  years. 

YOUNG    MAN 

So  strangely  and  so  sweetly.    All  the  ruin, 

All,  all  their  handiwork  is  blown  away 

As  though  the  mountain  aijr  had  blown  it  away 

Because  their  eyes  have  met.     They  cannot  hear, 

Being  folded  up  and  hidden  in  their  dance. 

The  dance  is  changing  now.  They  have  dropped  their  eyes, 

They  have  covered  up  their  eyes  as  though  their  hearts 

Had  suddenly  been  broken  —  Never,  never 

Shall  Dermot  and  Dervorgilla  be  forgiven. 

They  have  drifted  in  the  dance  from  rock  to  rock, 

They  have  raised  their  heads  as  though  to  snatch  the  s!eep 


T  he    Little    Review  13 


That  lingers  always  in  the  abyss  of  the  sky, 
Though  they  can  never  reach  it.    A  cloud  floats  up 
And  covers  all  the  mountain  head  in  a  moment. 
And  now  it  lifts  and  they  are  swept  away. 

I  had  almost  yielded  and  forgiven  it  all 

This  is  indeed  a  place  of  terrible  temptation. 

{The  MUSICIANS  begin  unfolding  and  folding 
a  black  cloth.  The  FIRST  MUSICIAN  comes 
forward  to  the  front  of  the  stage,  at  the 
centre.  He  holds  tite  cloth  before  him.  The 
other  two  come  one  on  either  side  and  unfold 
it.  They  afterwards  fold  it  up  in  the  same 
way.  While  it  is  unfolded,  the  YOUNG  MAN 
leaves  the  stage). 

THE  MUSICIAN  (singing) 
I. 

At  the  grey  round  of  the  hill 
Muic  of  a  lost  kingdom 
Runs,  runs  and  is  suddenly  still. 
The  winds  out  of  Clare-Galway 
Carry  it:  suddenly  it  is  still. 

I  have  heard  in  the  night  air 
A  wandering  airy  music; 
And  moidered  in  that  snare 
A  man  is  lost  of  a  sudden 
In  that  sweet  wandering  snare. 

What  finger  first  began 

Music  of  a  lost  kingdom 

They  dream  that  laughed  in  the  sun. 

Dry  bones  that  dream  are  bitter. 

They  dream  and  darken  our  sun. 

Those  crazy  fingers  play 
A  wandering  airy  music; 


14  The    Little    Review 


Our  luck  is  withered  away, 

And  wheat  in  the  wheat-ear  withered, 

And  the  wind  blows  it  away. 


My  heart  ran  wild  when  it  heard 
The  curlew  cry  before  dawn 
And  the  eddying  cat-headed  bird; 
But  now  the  night  is  gone. 
I  have  heard  from  far  below 
The  strong  March  birds  a-crow, 
Stretch  neck  and  clap  the  wing, 
Red  cocks,  and*  crow. 

MARY  OLIVIER:  A  LIFE 

May    Sinclair 

,  "\  Infancy 

I. 

THE    CURTAIN  of  the  big  bed  hung  down  beside  the  cot. 
When  old  Jenny  shook  it  the  wooden  rings  rattled  on  th 
pole  and  grey  men  with  pointed  heads  and  squat,  bulgmg  bodie 
came  out  of  the  folds  on  to  the  flat  green  ground.    If  you  looked  2 
them  they  turned  into  squab  faces  smeared  with  green. 

Every  n"ght.  when  Jennv  had  gone  away  with  the  doll  an 
the  donkey,  you  hunched  up  the  blanket  and  the  stiff  white  countei 
pane  to  hide  the  curtain,  and  you  played  with  the  knob  in  tti 
greenpainted  iron  railing  of  the  cot.  It  stuck  out  close  to  yoi 
face,  winking  and  grinning  at  you  in  a  friendly  way.  You  poke 
it  till  it  left  off  and  turned  grey  and  went  back  into  the  railmj 
Then  you  had  to  feel  for  it  with  your  finger.  It  fitted  the  hollow  ( 
your  hand,  cool  and  hard,  with  a  blunt  nose  that  pushed  agreeabl 

into  the  palm.  ,  ,       ,      ,       ^    ■,- 

In  the  dark  you  could  go  tip-finger  along  the  slender,  lashir 
flourishes  of  the  ironwork.  By  stretching  your  arm  out  tight  _yc 
could  reach  the  curlykew  at  the  end.  The  short,  steep  flouri5 
took  you  to  the  top  of  the  railing  and  on  behind  your  head. 


The    Little    Review  15 


Tip-fingering  backwards  that  way  you  got  into  the  grey  lane 
where  the  prickly  stones  were  and  the  hedge  oT  little  biting  trees. 
V.Tien  the  door  in  the  hedge  opened  you  saw  the  man  in  the  night- 
shirt. He  had  only  half  a  face.  From  his  nose  and  his  cheekbones 
down^\■ards  his  beard  hung  straight  like  a  dark  cloth.  You  opened 
your  mouth,  but  before  you  could  scream  you  were  back  in  the 
cot;  the  room  was  light;  the  green  knob  winked  and  grinned  at 
you  from  the  railing,  and  behind  the  curtain  Papa  and  Mamma 
were  lying  in  the  big  bed. 

One  night  she  came  back  out  of  the  lane  as  the  door  in  the 
hedge  was  opening.  The  man  stood  in  the  room  by  the  washstand, 
scratching  his  long  thigh.  He  was  turned  slantwise  from  the. night- 
light  on  the  washstand  so  that  it  showed  his  yellowish  skin  under 
the  lifted  sh'rt.  The  wh-'te  half-face  hung  by  itself  on  the  darkness. 
When  he  left  off  scratching  and  moved  towards  the  cot  she 
screamed. 

Mamma   took  her   into   the   big  bed.      She_  curled   up   there 
under  the  shelter  of  the  raised  hip  and  shoulder.     Mamma's  face 
was    dry    and    warm    and    smelt    sweet   like    Jenny's    powder-puff. 
Mamma's  mouth  moved  over  the  wet  cheeks,  nipping  her  tears. 
'    Her  cry  changed  to  a  whimper  and  a  soft,  ebbing  sob. 

Mamma's  breast:  a  smooth,  cool,  round  thing  that  hung  to 
your  hands  and  slipped  from  them  when  they  tried  to  hold  it.  You 
could  feel  the  little  ridges  of  the  stiff  nipple  as  your  finger  pushed  it 
back  into  the  breast. 

Her  sobs  shook  in  her  throat  and  ceased  suddenly. 

II. 

The  big  white  globes  hung  in  a  ring  above  the  dinner-table. 
At  first,  when  she  came  into  the  room,  carried  high  in  Jenny's 
arms,  she  could  see  nothing  but  the  hanging,  shining  globes.  Each 
had  a  light  inside  it  that  made  it  shine. 

Mamma  was  sitting  at  the  far  end  of  the  table.  Her  face 
and  neck  shone  white  above  the  pile  of  oranges  on  the  dark-blue 
dish.     She  was  dipping  her  fingers  in  a  dark-blue  glass  bowl. 

When  Mary  saw  her  she  strained  towards  her.  leaning  danger- 
ously out  of  Jenny's  arms.  Old  Jenny  said,  ."Tchit-tchit!"  and 
made  her  arms  tight  and  hard,  and  put  her  on  Papa's  knee. 

Papa  sat  up,  broad  and  tall  above  the  table,  all  by  himself. 


li  Th€    Little    Review 


He  was  dressed  in  black.  One  long  brown  beard  hung  down  in 
front  of  him  and  one  short  beard  covered  his  mouth.  You  knew 
he  was  smiling  because  his  cheeks  swelled  hi^  up  his  face  so  that  his 
eyes  were  squeezed  into  the  narrow,  shining  slits.  When  they 
came  out  again  you  saw  scarlet  specks  and  smears  in  their  corners. 

Papa's  big  white  hand  was  on  the  table,  holding  a  glass  filled 
with  some  red  stuff  that  was  both  dark  and  shining,  and  had  a 
queer,  sharp  smell. 

"Porty-worty  winey-piney,"  said  Papa. 

The  same  queer,  sharp  smell  came  from  between  his  two 
beards  when  he  spoke. 

Mark  was  sitting  up  beside  Mamma  a  long  way  off.  She 
could  see  them  looking  at  each  other.  Roddy  and  Dank  were  with 
them.  They  were  making  flowers  out  of  orange-peel  and  floating 
them  in  the  finger-bowls.  Mamma's  fingers  were  blue  and  sharp- 
pointed  in  the  water  behind  the  dark-blue  glass  of  her  bowl.  The 
floating  orange-peel  flowers  were  blue.  She  could  see  Mamma 
smiling  as  she  stirred  them  about  the  tips  of  her  blue  fingers. 

Her  under-lip  pouted  and  shook  .  She  didn't  want  to  sit  by 
herself  on  Papa's  knee.  She  wanted  to  sit  ia_Mamma's  lap  beside 
Mark.  She  wanted  Mark  to  make  orange-peel  flowers  for  her. 
She  wanted  Mamma  to  look  down  at  her  and  smile. 

Papa  was  spreading  butter  on  biscuit  and  powdered  sugar 
on  the  butter. 

"Sugary-Buttery-  Bippery,"  said  Papa. 

She  shook  her  head  .  ''I  want  to  go  to  Mamma.  I  want  to  go 
to  Mark." 

She  pushed  away  the  biscuit.  "No.  No.  Mamma  give  Mary. 
Mark  give  Mary." 

"Drinky-winky,"  said  Papa. 

He  put  his  glass  to  her  shaking  mouth  .  She  turned  her  head 
away,  and  he  took  it  between  his  thumb  and  finger  and  turned  it 
back  again.  Her  neck  moved  stiffly.  Her  head  felt  small  arid  brittle 
under  the  weight  and  pinch  of  the  big  hand.  The  smell  and  the 
sour,  burning  taste  of  the  wine  made  her  cry. 

"Don't  tease  Baby,  Emilius,"  said  Mamma. 

"I  never  tease  anybody." 

He  lifted  her  up.  She  could  feel  her  body  swell  and  tighten 
under  the  bands  and  drawstrings  of  her  clothes,  as  she  struggled 


The    Littlt    Review  ij 

and  choked,  straining  against  the  immense  clamp  of  his  arms. 
When  his  wet,  red  lips  pushed  out  between  his  beards  to  kiss  her, 
she  kicked.  Her  toes  drummed  against  something  stiff  and  thin 
that  gave  way  and  sprang  out  again  with  a  cracking  and  popping 
sound. 

He  put  her  on  the  floor  .  She  stood  there  all  by  herself,  crying, 
till  Mark  came  and  took  her  by  the  hand. 

^'Naughty  Baby.  Naughty  Mary,"  said  Mamma.  "Don't 
kiss  her,  Mark." 

"No,  Mamma." 

He  knelt  on  the  floor  beside  her  and  smiled  into  her  face  and 
wiped  it  with  his  pocket-handerchief.  She  put  out  her  mouth  and 
kissed  him,  and  stopped  crying. 

"Jenney  must  come,"  Mamma  said,  "and  take  Mary  away." 

"No.    Mark  take  Mary." 

"Let  the  little  beast  take  her,"  said  Papa.  "If  he  does  he 
shan't  come  back  again.    Do  you  hear  that,  sir?" 

Mark  said,  "Yes,  Papa." 

They  went  out  of  the  room  hand-in-hand.  He  carried  her 
up-stairs  pick-a-back.  As  they  went  she  rested  her  chin  on  the  nape 
of  his  neck  where  his  brown  hair  thinned  off  into  shiny,  golden 
down. 

III. 

Old  Jenny  sat  in  the  rocking-chair  by  the  fireguard  in  the 
nursery.  She  wore  a  black  net  cap  with  purple  rosettes  above  her 
ears.  You  could  look  through  the  black  net  and  see  the  top  of 
her  head  laid  out  in  stripes  of  grey  hair  and  pinky  skin. 

She  had  a  grey  face,  flattened  and  wide-open  like  her  eyes. 
She  held  it  tilted  slightly  backwards  out  of  your  way,  and  seemed 
to  be  always  staring  at  something  just  above  your  head.  Jenny's 
face  had  tiny  creases  and  crinkles  all  over  it.  When  you  kissed  it 
you  could  feel  the  loose  flesh  crumpling  and  sliding  softly  over 
the  bones.    There  was  always  about  her  a  faint  smell  of  sour  milk. 

No  use  trying  to  talk  to  Jenny.  She  was  too  tired  to  listen. 
You  climbed  on  to  her.  lap  and  stroked  her  face,  and  said,  "Poor 
Jenny.  Dear  Jenny.  Poor  Jenny-Wee  so  tired,"  and  her  face 
shut  up  and  went  to  sleep.  Her  broad  flat  nose  drooped;  her  eye- 
liiis  drooped;  her  long  grey  bands  of  hair  drooped;  she  was  like 


i8  The    Little    Review 


the  white  donkey  that  lived  in  the  back  lane  and  slept  standing  on 
three  legs,  with  his  ears  lying  down  . 

Mary  loved  Old  Jenny  next  to  Mamma  and  Mark;  and  she 
loved  the  white  donkey.  She  wondered  why  Jenny  was  always 
cross  when  you  stroked  her  grey  face  and  called  her  "Donkey- 
Jenny.'  It  was  not  as  if  she  minded  being  stroked;  because  wnen 
Mark  or  Dank  did  it  her  face  woke  up  suddenly  and  smoothed  out 
its  creases.  And  when  Roddy  climbed  up  with  his  long  legs  into 
her  lap  she  hugged  him  tight  and  rocked  him,  singing  Mamma's 
song,  and  called  him  her  baby. 

He  wasn't.  She  was  the  baby;  and  while  you  were  the  baJby 
you  could  sit  in  people's  laps.  But  Old  Jenny  didn't  want  her  to 
be  the  baby. 

The  nursery  had  shiny,  slippery  fellow  walls  and  a  brown  floor, 
and  a  black  hearthrug  with  a  centre  of  bro-wn  and  yellow  flowers. 
The  greyish  chintz  curtains  were  spotted  with  small  brown  leaves 
and  crimson  berries.  There  were  dark-brown  cupboards  and  chests 
of  drav.ers  and  chairs  that  were  brown  -frames  for  the  yellow  net- 
work of  the  cane.  Soft  bits  of  you  squeezed  through  J:he  holes 
and  came  out  on  the  other  side.  That  hurt  and  made  a  red  pat- 
tern on  you  v/here  you  sat  down. 

The  tall  green  fire-guard  was  a  cage.  When  Jenny  poked  the 
fire  you  peeped  tlirough  and  saw  it  fluttering  inside.  If  you  sat 
still  you  could  sometimes  hear  it  say  "teck-teck",  and  sometimes 
the  fire  would  fly  out  suddenly  with  a  soft  hiss. 

Higli  above  your  head  you  could  ju§t  see  the  gleaming  edge 
of  the  brass  rail. 

"Jenny  —  where's  -  yesterday  and  where's  to-morrow-" 

IV. 

When  you  had  run  a  thousand  hundred  times  round  the  table 
you  came  to  the  blue  house.  It  stood  behind  Jenny's  rocking-chair, 
where  Jenny  couldn't  see  it,  in  a  blue  garden.  The  walls  and  ceilings 
were  blue;  the  doors  and  staircases  were  blue;  everything  in  all  the 
rooms  was  blue. 

Mary  ran  round  and  round.  She  loved  the  padding  of  her  feet 
on  the  floor  and  the  sound  of  her  sing-song: 

"The  pussies  are  blue,  the  beds  are  .blue,  the  matches  are  blue 
and  the  mousetraps  and  all  the  litty  mouses! " 


The    Little    Review 


19 


Mamma  came  in  and  looked  at  her  as  she  ran.  She  stood  in  the 
was  there,  all  in  blue,  with  a  blue  cap;  and  Mark  and  Dank  and 
Roddy  were  there,  all  in  blue.  But  Papa  was  not  allowed  in  the 
blue  house. 

Mama  came  in  and  looked  at  her  as  she  ran.  She  stood  in  the 
doorway  with  her  finger  on  her  mouth,  and  she  was  smiHn?.  Her 
brown  hair  was  parted  in  two  sleek  bands,  looped  and  puffed  out 
softly  round  her  ears,  and  plaited  in  one  plait  that  stood  up  on  its 
edge  above  her  forehead.  She  wore  a  wide  brown  silk  gown  with 
falling  sleeves. 

"Pretty  Mamma,"  said  Mary.    "In  a  blue  dress." 

V. 

Every  morning  Mark  and  Dank  and  Roddy  knocked  at  Mam- 
ma's door,  and  if  Papa  was  there  he  called  out,  "Go  away,  you 
little  beasts!"  If  he  was  not  there  she  said,  "Come  in,  darlings!" 
and  they  climbed  up  the  big  bed  into  Papa's  place  and  said  "Good 
morning,  Mamma!"  . 

When  Papa  was  away  the  lifted  curtain  spread  like  a  tent 
over  Mary's  cot,  shutting  her  in  with  Mamma.  When  he  was  there 
the  drawn  curtain  hung  straight  down  from  the  head  of  the  bed. 

{to  be  continued) 


Periosteum  ? 

f        "All  the  bones  are  covered  with  a  very  sensible  membrane  called 
rhe  periosteum". 

(Cheyne,  recorded  in  Sam.  Johnson's  dictionary.) 

On    Reading  Ezra  Pound's  Lustra 

At  first  I  had  the  luscious  feeling  of  a  Rocky  Ford  cantaloupe, 

But  later  I  sensed  the  papery  larva-cells  of  the  wasps-nest. 

L.  W.  K. 


20  The    Little    Review 

"EXILES"   * 
A  Discussion  of  James  Joyce's  Plays 
"  by  John  Rodker 

AGAIN  in  this  play  Mr.  Joyce  exploits  that  part  of  mind  merging 
on  the  subconscious.  The  drama  is  one  of  will  versus  instinct, 
the  protagonist  Richard  Rowan,  a  writer.  This  particular  psycholo- 
gical triangle  is  one  of  barely  comprehended  instincts,  desires  for  free- 
dom (equally  undefined),  emotions  that  hardly  crystallise  before 
fading  out.  Inter-action  of  thought  and  will  is  carried  so  close  to 
this  borderline  that  the  reader  fears  continually  lest  he  miss  any 
implication.  Analysis  digs  continually  deeper.  At  a  certain  moment 
it  is  lost.     Mind  will  go  no  further. 

People  are  built  on  no  plan  and  since  it  is  impossible  at  any 
moment  to  say  that  either  will  or  instinct  is  dominant,  the  author  lets 
the  curtain  fall  finally  on  the  heio's  temporary  surrender  to  both.  ■ 

RICHARD  (still  gazing  at  her  and  speaking  as  if  to 
an  absent  person'). 

"I  have  wounded  my  soul  for  you  —  a  deep  wound 
of  doubt  which  can  never  be  healed.  I  can  never  know, 
never  in  this  world.  I  do  not  wish  to  know  or  to  believe. 
I  do  not  care.  It  is  not  in  the  darkness  of  belief  th^t 
I  desire  you.  But  in  restless  living  wounding  doubt. 
To  hold  you  by  no  bonds,  even  of  love,  to  be  united  with 
you  in  body  and  soul,  in  utter  nakedness  —  for  this  I 
longed.  And  now  I  am  tired  for  a  while  Bertha.  My 
wound  tires  me. 

The  play  is  particularly  a  propos.     Everyone  talks  of  individual 
freedom, — (Stirner    is    a    name    to    conjure    with,    though    unread), — 
identifying  it  in  some  obscure  way  with  Women's  Suffrage.    But  the  • 
issues   are   psychological    and   no    spread    of   popular   education   will 


*  The  four  people  who  contribute  to  this  discussion  have  not 
compared  notes  or  talked  over  their  difference  s  of  opinion.  The  dis- 
cussion may  be  continued  in  the  next  humber. 

"Exiles"  is  published  by  B.  W.  Huebsch,  New  York. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  21 

simplify  them.  In  this  case  Rowan  leaves  his  wife  to  do  as  she  will. 
She  naturally  reviles  him  for  leaving  her  without  the  prop  of  his 
decisions.  After  nine  years  of  conjugal  life  she  is  unable  to  make  up 
her  mind  as  to  whether  she  needs  a  lover.  If  in  the  end  she  does  not 
sin,  it  is  because  she  uses  her  virginity  as  he  his  profligacy;  for 
pride  and  humiliation.  I  have  read  the  play  often  but  without  ar- 
riving at  whether  it  is  an  ultimate  cowardice  or  love  for  her  husband 
that  keeps  her  faithful.  To  Rowan  detail  of  what  has  happened  does 
not  matter.  The  atmosphere  of  their  jcommunion  would  make  a  more 
treacherous  betrayal  than  any  carnal  sideslip.  That  he  can  never 
know. 

His  anguish  at  the  possible  withholding  from  his  wife  of  any 
instant  of  experience  which  might  make  her  life  more  full  may  be 
interpreted  as  moal  strength  or  cowardice.  Where  it  is  his  will  de- 
manding Bertha's  freedom,  he  is  dififident.  but  instinct  in  him  speaks 

fiercely "I   told  you   that  I  wished  you  not   to   do  anything 

false  and  secret  against  me  —  against  our  friendship,  against  her; 
not  to   steal  her  from  me,  craftilj',   secretly,  meanly  — ^^  in   the   dark, 

in  the  night  —  you,  Robert,  my  friend "  (Looks  away  again; 

fit  a  lower  voice)  "That  is  what  I  must  tell  you  too.  Because  in  the 
very  core  of  my  ignoble  heart  I  longed  to  be  betrayed  by  you  and 
by  her  —  in  the  dark,  in  the  night  —  secretly,  utterly,  craftily  .  By 
you  my  best  friend  and  by  her.  I  longed  for  that  passionately, 
crazily,    ignobly,    to   be    dishonoured   for   ever   in    love   and    in    lust, 

to   be To  be  forever  a   shameful   creature   and   to  build 

up  my  soul  again  out  of  tHe  ruins  of  its  shame." 

The  play  is  very  romantic,  poetical  in  a  manner  rare  among 
plays.  It  is  as  fervent  as  the  Seagull  of  Tchekhof.  It  was  no  small 
achievement  of  Mr.-  Tnyce  to  have  made  dramatic  such  very  pure 
cerebration,  and  that  with  a  touch  so  delicate  that  no  most  intricate 
part  of  the  mechanism  has  suffered  by  the  inquisition.  One  sees 
Ibsen  ruining  such  a  situation  with  coarse  fingers.  Tchekhof  got  his 
purity  of  apprehension  from  taking  people  by  their  instincts.  Joyce 
has  dofle  the  same  thin":  wdth  a  difference.  Not  that  his  people 
have  necessarily  more  trains,  but  beyond  instinct  the  brain  ramifies 
into  obscurer  delicacies.  The  implication  of  Exiles  are  so  numerous 
'^  each  one  subject  for  minute  elucidation  —  that  only  with  great 
familiarity  would  a  total  impression  be  possible.  Tchekhof's  subtle- 
ties are  plain-sailing,  instinctively  apparent,  so  that  for  stage  purposes 
he  is   the  last   word   in   effectiveness.     Exiles  will  have   however   to 


22  The    Little    Review 


become  classical  —  a  repertory  play,  seen  often  —  before  any  audience 
can  be  familiar  with  it.  It  is  a  play  which  though  perfect  as  litera- 
ture, might  easily  lose  significance  on  the  stage:  it  is  too  full  of 
meat.     The  most  accustomed  stomachs  only  will  avoid  indigestion. 

Nevertheless  a  production  should  be  full  of  interest.  No  manager 
will,  I  fancy,  care  to  produce  a  play  without  a  real  suicide,  even  though 
it  be  a  "death  of  the  spirit"  that  drops  the  curtain;  but  a  small  theatre, 
of  which  there  are  many  in  America  and  one  or  two  in  this  country, 
might  easily  gain  a  reputation  for  intelligence  by  its  production. 


by      Israel  Solon 


Let'me  say  at  once  that  I  was  most  painfully  disappointed  with  James 
Joyce's  Exiles.  My  disappointment  was  so  keen  because  of  what  he 
might  have  achieved  and  came  near  achieving  but  failed  to  achieve. 
His  merely  good  is  not  good  enough  where  the  great  was  so  nearly 
within  his  reach.  With  that  theme,  the  author  of  the  Portrait  and 
Ulysses  should  have  achieved  nothing  short  of  the  sublime.  No  poet 
since  Sophocles  has  had  so  dramatic  a  vehicle.  Indeed,  I  think  Joyce's 
the  more  dramatic. 

Sophocles  took  for  his  theme  the  fate  of  a  man  incompletely  born 
and  who  was  therefore  bound  to  rejoin  his  mother.  Sophocles  held 
that  man  strictly  to  his  inheritance.  And  so  vividly  did  he  present 
his  argument  that  to  this  day  those  of  us  who  are  doomed  to  love 
our  own  mothers  are  forced  to  accept  his  terrible  but  valid  judgment. 
We  may  fling  a  feeble  fist  at  whatever  gods  we  choose;  escape  our 
doom  we  can  not.  James  Jo3fce  in  Exiles  has  taken  for  his  dramatic 
vehicle  the  fate  of  two  men  who  are  in  love  with  each  other  and  who 
are  at  the  same  time  excessively  amenable  to  all  social  coercion. 
Bound  by  the  letter  of  conventional  morality  more  completely  than 
most  men,  the  disguises  winked  at  by  organised  society  and  thereby 
made  available  to  most  men  is  not  available  to  these  two  men.  They 
will  have  nothing  they  may  not  have  openly.  Drawn  to  each  other 
from  within  and  held  back  from  without,  these  two  men  are  doomed 
to  keep  within  sight  of  each  other  but  beyond  the  reach  of  each  other. 
The  "eternal  triangle"  of  our  convetitional  comedy  is  repulsive  to 
these  men.  Here  is  matter  worthy  of  the  very  best  that  James  Joyce 
has  it  within  him  to  lend.  Why,  then,  does  James  Joyce  fail  to  achieve 
that  measure  ot  greatness  we  have  every  right  to  expect  of  him  and 
the  theme  he  has  chosen? 


The     Little     Review  23 

I  believe  it  is  because  he  has  failed  to  make  his  characters  con- 
scious of  what  fate  has  in  store  for  them.  Had  he  made  these  men 
fully  aware  of  what  their  lives  held  for  them,  the  roles  fate  meant 
them  to  pla3s  and  he,  furthermore,  made  them  struggle  valiantly 
against  it,  then  if  they  had  vvfon  in  the  end  we  sliould  have  had  great 
comedy,  and  if  they  lost  we  should  have  had  sublime  tragedy.  Con- 
sciousness would  have  made  of  them  such  responsible  human  beings 
as  would  have  engaged  our  sympathies  to  the  utmost;  whereas  un- 
consciousness has  left  tliem  feeble  victims  blindly  wallowing  to  no 
purpose.  And  since  it  is  unthinkable  to  me  that  the  autlj^r  of  the 
portrait  and  Ulysses  could  be  lacking  in  moral  courage,  I  am  forced 
to  the  conclusion  that  James  Joyce  was  not  himself  aware  of  the 
matter  of  his  play. 

by    Samuel  A.  Tannenbaum,  M.  D. 

Exiles  will  in  all  probability  prove  to  be  cavaire  to  the  general, 
not  only  because  it  is  open  to  the  obvious  criticism  that  it  is  not  true 
to  life,  but  because  its  subject-mater  is  one  that  unconsciously  stirs 
up  the  most  passionate  resistances  of  a  reader  unaccustomed  to  the 
most  honest  and  deep-searching  self-analysis.  To  the  psychologist 
trained  in  psychoanalysis,  on  the  contrary,  the  book  will  be  agreeably 
welcome  as  an  inspired  contribution  from  the  depths  of  an  artist's 
soul  to  one  of  the  most  tabooed  and  falsified  motives  of  human  con- 
duct, —  we  mean  homosexuality.  It  is  true  that  the  reader  unlearned 
in  such  matters,  and  perhaps  the  author  too,  may  not  be  aware  that 
this  is  the  theme  of  the  play  and  may  look  for  it  in  vain  .  Of  course, 
this  is  not  all  there  is  to  the  play;  just  as  in  a  dream  the  main  motive 
is  overladen  and  disguised  with  other  subsidiary 'motives  and  rationa- 
lizations, so  is  it  in  the  drama  before  us. 

The  comparison  of  Exiles  with  a  dream  may  be  carried  much 
further.  Every  work  of  fiction  is  its  creator's  dream;  the  more  ficti- 
tious, the  more  dream-like,  the  more  apparently  absurd  and  unreal, 
the  truer  it  is  to  the  hidden  forces  in  the  maker's  soul  and  the  truer 
too  to  the  generality  of  mankind  for  whose  repressed  springs  of  action 
the  poet  is  the  mouthpiece.  Exiles  very  often  reads  like  like  a  dream 
and  must  be  interpreted  as  such.  As  such  it  may  be  said  to  derive  its 
motive  power  from  the  author's  repressed  but  most  urgent  impulses, 
to  emanate  from  the  unconscious  forces  within  him  and  to  ena'ble 
him  to  gratify  in  this  "harmless"  way  his  unacted  and  unactable  long- 


J4  The    Little    Review 

ings.  In  all  this.,  it  need  hardly  be  said,  there  is  not  the  slightest 
reproach  for  or  condemnation  of  the  dramatist:  every  purely  fictitious 
literary  work  is  the  self-revelation  of  a  burdened  soul  that  saves  it- 
self from  a  neurosis  or  from  a  perversion  by  the  cathartic  effect  of 
the^  creative  process. 

Richard  Rowan's,  the  protagonist's,  homopsychism  is  never  once 
referred  to  in  the  story  but  is  clearly  to  be  deduced  from  his 
character  and  conduct.  He  has  no  love  for  his  dead  mother  and 
several  times  refers  bitterly  to  her  hardness  of  heart,  at  the  same 
time  crediting  her  with  having  been  a  remarkable  woman;  of  his 
"handsome  father",  on  the  contrary,  he  always  speaks  with  great 
affection.  He  is  utterly  incapable  of  making  love  to  a  woman  or  of 
loving  one  unless  she  is  or  has  been  in  love  with  a  man  to  whom  he 
is  attached;  for  this  reason  he  c^onnives  at  "his  life-long  friend's, 
Robert  Hand's  wooing  of  his  wife  and  urges  her,  nay,  goads  her  on 
to  be  unfaithful  to  him.  The  author  subtly  and  delicate  leads  us  to 
infer  that  Richard  and  Bertha  are  living  a  life  of  abstinence  ever 
since  his  betrayal  of  her  nine  years  before  and  that  he  gives  her  full 
freedom  only  that  they  might  thus  be  reunited.  Speaking  to  Robert 
of  the  moment  when  he  surprised  him  wooing  Bertha,  he  says:  "At 
that  moment  I  felt  our  whole  life  together  in  the  past,  and  I  longed 
to  put  my  arm  around  your  neck".  A  little  later  he  says  to  him: 
"In  the  very  core  of  my  ignoble  heart  I  longed  to  be  betrayed  by 
you  and  by  her  —  in  the  dark,  in  the  night  —  secretly,  meanly 
craftily.  By  you,  my  best  friend,  and  by  her.  I  longed  for  that  pas- ' 
sionately  and  ignobly".  Being  asked  why  he  did  so,  he  replies 
"From  pride  and  from  ignoble  longing.  And  from  a  deeper  motive 
still".  From  a  psychological  point  of  view  it  is  important,  too,  to 
note  that  before  Richard's  marriage  he  and  Robert  had  for  years 
shared  a  house  in  the  country  as  a  rendez-vous  for  erotic  escapades 
Of  course  Richard  rationalizes  his  motives  in  his  unconscious  con- 
flict with  his  latent  passion  ("I  fear  that  I  will  reproach  myself  foi 
having  taken  all  for  myself  because  I  would  not  suffer  her  to  give  tc 
another  what  was  hers  and  not  mine  to  give;  because  I  accepted  from 
her  her  loyalty  and  made  her  life  poorer  in  love"),  but  even  the  few 
sentences  we  have  quoted  prove  the  correctness  of  our  deduction 
concerning  him.  Fully  to  comprehend  this  splendid  portrait  of  a 
type  of  artistic  soul  that  one  meets  often  enough  in  real  life,  though 
exiled,  it  is  necessary  not  to  overlook  Richard's  intensely  masochis 


/ 


Th€    Littli    Review  tf 

ic  and  voyeur  impulses.    He  delights  in  putting  himself  in  situations 
liat  entail  a  great  deal  of  anguish  for  him,  and  he  compels  his  wife 
J   give    him    the   fullest   details   of   his    friend's   assaults   upon   her 
onor.    That  he  can  be  cruel  too  on  occasion  is  not  afall  surprising; 
y  virtue  of  the  law  of  bi-polarity  the  masochist  is  also  a  sadist. 
The  portraits  of  the  Wife,  the   Friend,   the   Other  Woman  and 
1  the  Child  are  interesting  characterizations  that  will  repay  care- 
study.     They  are  all  intensely  individualized  and  unquestionably 
I  an  though  not  conventional.     Archie,  aged  eight,  is  one  of  the 
life-like  children  to  be  found  in  literature  and  is  introduced  into 
the  play  very  effectively  —  perhaps  because  in  portraying  him  the 
luthor  was  inspired  by  Shakespeare's  Prince  Mamillius  to  whom  the 
ittle   lad  bears  a  strong  resemblance  .  (Incidentally  it  may  be   re- 
marked that  The  Winter's  Tale  is  largely  unintelligible  if  we  fail  to 
see  the  homopsychic  conflict  in  it  and  do  not  recognize  the  erotic 
relationship    between    Leontes    and    Polixenes    .  Othello's    fate    too 
might  have  been  different  had  it  not  been  for  his  unconscious  love 
for  Cassius. 

Many  of  the  minute  details  of  this  play,  such  as  Richard's  slip 
of  the  tongue  about  his  interest  in  Robert's  cottage,  Beatrice's  for- 
getting to  bring  her  music,  Bertha's  sudden  attack  of  fear  when 
Robert  speaks  to  her  from  the  bed-room,  etc.,  prove  Mr.  Joyce  to 
be  a  fine  psychologist  and  a  keen  observer  oi  human  nature.  But 
his  courage  to  be  true  and  unconventional,  combined  with  the  fact 
that  his  chief  characters  aie  neurotic,  exiles,  will  we  fear  doom  him 
to   a  small   but   select  following. 

by    j  h 

I  find  it  difficult  to  put  any  of  my  thoughts  on  Exiles  into 
words.  They  are  not  used  to  words:  they  die.  I  feel  that  Joyce's 
play  has  died  in  words.  I  do  not  mean  because  of  the  words  literally, 
all  Art  is  linguistic.  But  even  Art  must  fail  many  times  before  it 
conquers  those  things  whose  nature  it  is  to  keep  themselves  a  secret 
from  us  forever. 

On  the  surface  the  play  givet  Hself  up  to  many  interpretations. 
Propagandists  declare  it  is  a  play  on  the  freedom  of  the  individual. 
Other  reviewers  talk  of  triangles  and  Ibsen  and  neurotics.  All  these 
things  are  easy  and  semi-intelligent  things  to  say.     But  when  it  is 


i6  Thg    Little    Review 


unanimously  agreed  that  Joyce  hasn't  "put  over  his  idea  clearly" 
or  t~hat  he  hasn't  known  just  what  he  was  trying  to  put  over,  I  grow 
a  bit  nervous  and  wonder  why  it  doesn't  appear  to  them  that  perhaps 
Joyce  couldn't  reach  their  darkness.  I  also  wonder  why  not  read 
Exiles  with  Joyce  in  mind.  The  man  vvho  wrote  A  Portrait  of  the 
Artist  and  Ulysses,  a  highly-conscious,  over- sensitized  artist  living 
at  the  vortex*  of  modern  psychology,  would  scarcely  go  back  to 
dealing  with  material  in  a  pre-Nietzsche  manner.  Joyce  is  not  Gals- 
worthy; on  the  other  hand  he  is  not  D  .H.  Lawrence.  And  to  dis- 
cuss courage  in  connection  with  Joyce  is  ridiculous.  Joyce  outlived 
courage  in  some  other  incarnation. 

There  are  people,  a  few,  always  the  artist  I  should  say,  who  in- 
spire such  strong  love  in  all  who  know  them  that  these  in  turn 
become  inspired  by  love  for  one  another.  The  truth  of  the  matter  is 
that  such  a  person  is  neither  loved  nor  lover  but  in  some  way  seems 
to  be  an  incarnation  of  love,  possessing  an  eternal  element  and 
because  of  it  a  languor,  a  brooding,  a  clairvoyance  of  life  and  a  dis- 
dain. In  other  people  he  breeds  a  longing  akin  to  the  longing  for 
immortality.  They  do  not  love  him:  they  become  him.  Richard  is 
one   of  these. 

There  is  much  talk  of  freedom  in  the  play.  Everyone  wanting 
everyone  else  to  be  free,  it  is  shown  that  there  is  at  no  time  any 
freedom  for  anyone.  The  discussion  of  the  wife's  decision  when 
she  went  away  with  Richard  —  unasked  by  him  —  proves  she  has 
no  freedom  to  make  a  decision.  She  may  have  been  in  love  with 
Robert,  but  she  had  no  choice:  she  was  Richard.  Robert  is  in  love 
with  RicTiard,  has  always  been;  but  he  is  an  unthinking,  natural  man. 
He  follows  nature  with  his  brain  and  thinks  he  is  in  love  with 
Richard's  wife,  a  woman  being  the  conventional  symbol  for  a  man's 
love.  But  when  he  has  a  meeting  with  her  and  they  are  left  alone 
by  Richard  in  perfect  freedom  they  are  foiled,  they  are  both  Richard, 
both  trying  to  reach  Richard,  not  each  other.  Richard's  old  conflict 
with  his  mother  (just  indicated)  was  based  on  her  refusal  to  become 
him.     The  wife  sees  the  child  going  the  way  of  all  of  them. 

There  is  no  where  in  the  world  for  Richard  to  turn  for  love.  Sex 
as  other  men  know  it  can  be  for  him  only  a  boring,  distasteful  need 


*  Zurich. 
of  the  body.     Love  strikes  back  at  him  from  every  source  .  His  be- 


The    Little    Review  27 


comes  a  Midas  tragedy. 

He  is  tormented  by  tlie  commonplace  "beaten  path"  love-making 
of  Robert  and  his  wife.  He  asks  her  infinite  questions;  he  directs 
the  love-making  to  save  his  sensibilities.  He  says  to  Robert:  "Not 
like  this  —  this  is  not  for  people  like  us."  Yet  he  wishes  darkly  that 
they  had  dishonoured  him  in  a  common,  sneaking  way.  Not  that 
he  cares  for  either  of  them,  not  that  he  cares  for  honour  or  for  con- 
ventions, but  then  he  might  have  been  free  of  them.  They  would 
have  acted  for  once  without  his  spirit  having  been  the  moving  force. 

We  see  Richard  wearily  contemplating  his  despair.  There  is 
much  of  the  child  in  Richard.  He  has  a  need  to  create  some  hold 
on  life,  some  connection  with  the  experiences  of  other  men.  He 
chooses  the  least  uncomplimentary  to  himself  of  those  in  the  play 
as  the  symbol  through  which  he  can  make  his  connection  with  love. 
He  sees  himself  less  handicapped  intellectually  in  the  music  teacher, 
so  he  loves  love  through  her.  When  they  taunt  him  with  her  he 
answers  "No,  not  even  she  would  understand."  He  writes  all  night 
endless  pages  at  this  image  of  himself,  and  in  the  morning  walks 
on  the  beach  maddened  by  emptiness  and  despair.  At  the  last 
curtain  he  falls  on  to  a  couch,  worn  and  helpless,  in  need  only  of  a 
"great  sweet  mother";  but  he  must  be  forever  on  the  wheel:  his  wife 
kneels  beside  him  babbling  of  her  love. 


ULYSSES 

James  Joyce 

Episode    VIII 

PINEAPPLE  rock,  lemon  plattr  butter-scotch.  A  sugarsticky  girl 
shovelling  scoopfuls  of  creams  for  a  christian  brother.  Some 
school  treat.  Bad  for  their  tummies.  Lozenge  and  comfit  manu- 
facturer to  His  Majesty  the  King.  God.  Save.  X)ur.  Sitting  on 
his  throne,  sucking  jujubes. 

A  sombre  young  man,  watchful  among  the  warm  sweet  fumes 
of  Graham  Lemon's,  placed  a  throwaway  in  a  hand  of  Mr.  Bloom. 
Heart  to  heart  talks. 
Bloo  ....  Me?     No. 


28  The    Little    Review 

Blood  of  the  Lamb. 

His  slow  feet  walked  him  riverward,  reading.  h\\  are  washed 
in  the  blood  of  the  lamb.  Elijah  is  coming.  Dr.  John  Alexander 
Dowie  restorer  of  the  church  in  Zion  is  coming. 

Is  coming!     Is  coming! !     Is  coming! ! ! 

All  heartily  welcome. 

Paying  game.  Where  was  that  ad  some  Birmingham  firm  the 
luminous  crucifix?  Our  saviour.  Wake  up  in  the  dead  of  night  and 
see  him  on  the  wall,  hanging.  Pepper's  ghost  idea.  Iron  nails 
ran  in. 

Phosphorous  it  must  be  done  with.  If  you  leave  a  bit  of  cod- 
fish for  instance.  I  could  see  the  bluey  s'ilver  over  it.  Night 
I  "went  down  to  the  pantry  in  the  kitchen.  What  was  it  she  wanted? 
The  Malaga  raisins.  Before  Rudy  was  born.  The  phosphores- 
cence, that  bluey  greeny.    Very  good  for  the  brain.    '^■- 

From  Butler's  monument  house  corner  he  glanced  along 
Bachelor's  walk.  Dedalus'  daughter  there  still  outside  Dillon's 
auction  rooms.  Must  be  selling  off  some  old  furniture.  Knew  her 
eyes  at  once  from  the  father.  Lobbing  about  Vv^aiting  for  him. 
Home  always  breaks  up  when  the  mother  goes.  Fifteen  children 
he  had.  Birth  every  year  almost.  That's  in  their  tlieology  or  the 
priest  won't  give  the  poor  woman  the  confession,  the  absolution. 
Increase  and  multiply.  Did  you  ever  hear  such  an  idea?  No 
families  themselves  to  feed.  Living  on  the  fat  of  the  land.  A 
housekeeper  of  one  of  those  fellows  if  you  could  pick  it  out  of  her. 
Never  pick  it  out  of  her:  his  reverence:  mum's  the  word. 

Good  Lord  that  poor  child's  dress  is  in  flitters.  Under  fed  she 
looks  too.    It's  after  they  feel  it.     Undermines  the  constitution. 

As  he- set  foot  on  O'Connell  bridge  a  puffball  of  smoke  plumed  up 
from  the  parapet.  Brewery  barge  with^  export  stout.  England. 
Sea  air  sours  it.  I  heard.  Be  interesting  some  day  get  a  pass 
through  Hancock  to  see  tlie  brewery.  Regular  town  in  itself. 
Vats  of  porter  wonderful.  Rats  get  in  too.  Drink  themselves  bloat- 
ed as  big  as  a  collie  floating.  Dead  drunk  on  the  porter.  Drink 
till  they  puke  again  like  christians.  Imagine  drinking  that!  Rats: 
vats.    Well  of  course  if  we  knew  all  the  things. 

Looking  down  he  saw  flapping  strongly,  wheeling  between  the 
gaunt  quaywalls,  gulls.  Rough  weather  outside.  If  I  threw  my- 
self down?     Reuben  J's  son  must  have  swallowed  a  good  bellyful  of 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review         '  29 

that  sewage.    One  and  eightpence  too  much.    Hhhm.    It's  the  droll 
way  he  comes  out  with  the  things. 

They  wheeled  lower.    Looking  fsr  grub.    Wait. 
He  threw  down  among  them  a  crumpled  paper  ball.     Elijah 
thirtytwo  feet  per  sec  is  come.     Not  a  bit.     The  ball  bobbed  un- 
heeded on  the  wake  of  swells,  floated  under  by  the  bridgepiers.    Not 
such  damn  fools  .  They  wheeled,  flapping. 
T/ie  hungry  famished  gull 
Flaps  o'er  the  waters  dull. 

That  is  how  poets  write,  the  similar  sotinds.  But  then  Shakes- 
peare has  no  rhymes:  blank  verse,^  The  flow  of  the  language  it  is. 
The  thoughts.     Solemn. 

Hamlet,  I  am  thy  father's  spirit 
Doomed  for  a  certain  time  to  walk  the  earth. 
—  Two  apples  a  penny!     Two  for  a  penny! 
His  gaze  passed  over  the  glazed  apples  serried  on  her  stand. 
Austrailians  they  must  be  this  time  of  year.    Shiny  peels:     polishes 
them  up  with  a  rag  or  a  handkerchi^. 
Wait.    Those  poor  birds. 

He  halted  again  and  bought  from  the  old  applewoman  two 
Banbury  cakes  for  a  penny  and  broke  the  brittle  paste  and  threw 
its  fragments  down  into  the  Liffey.  See  that?  The  gulls  swooped 
silently,  two,  then  all,  from  their  heights,  pouncing  on  prey.  Gone. 
Every  morsel. 

Aware  of  their  greed  and  cunning  he  shook  the  powdery  crumb 
from  his  hands.  They  never  expected  that.  Manna.  Live  on  fish, 
fishy  flesh  they  have,  all  seabirds,  gulls,  seagoose.  Robinson  Crusoe 
had  to  live  on  them. 

They  wheeled,  flapping  weakly.  I'm  not  going  to  throw  any 
more.  Penny  quite  enough.  Lot  of  thanks  I  get.  Not  even  a 
caw.  If  you  fatten  a  turkey  say  on  chesnut  meal  it  tastes  like  that. 
But  then  why  is  it  that  saltwater  fish  are  not  salty?  How  i^  that? 
His  eyes  sought  answer  from  the  river  and  saw  a  rowboat 
'rock  at  anchor  on  the  treacly  swells  lazily  its  plastered  board. 
Hyam's 

11/ 

Trousers. 

Good  idea  that.  Wonder  if  he  pays  rent  to  the  corporation. 
How  can  you  own  water  really?     It's  always  flowing  in  a  stream, 


30  The    Little    Review 

never  the  same,  which  in  the  stream  of  life  we  trace.  Because  life  is 
a  stream.  All  kinds  of  places  are  good  for  ads.  That  quackdoctor 
ifor  the  clap  used  to  be  stuck  up  in  all  the  greenhouses.  Never  see 
it  now.  Strictly  confidential.  Dr.  Hy  Franks.  Didn't  cost  him 
a  red.  Got  fellows  to  stick  them  up  or  stick  them  up  himself  for 
that  matter  on  the  q.  t.,  running  in  to  loosen  a  button.  Just  the 
place  too. 

If  he ? 

O! 

Eh?  ' 

No      ....  No  * 

No,  no.  I  don't  believe  it.    He  wouldn't  surely? 

No,  no. 

Mr.  Bloom  moved  forward,  raising  his  troubled  eyes.  Think 
no  more  about  that.  After  one.  Timeball  on  the  ballast-office  is 
down.  Dunsink  time.  Fascinatmg  little^bOok  that  is  of  sir  Robert 
Ball's  .  Parallax.  I  never^  exactly  understood.  Par  it's  Greek: 
parallel,  parallax.  Met  him  pikehoses  she  called  it  till  I  told  her 
about  the  transmigration,    O  rocks! 

Mr.  Bloom  smiled  O  rocks  at  two  windows  of  the  ballast-office. 
She's  right  after  all.  Only  big  ^vords  for  ordinary  things  on  account 
of  the  sound.  She's  not  exactly  wJtty.  Still  I  don't  know.  She 
used  to  say  Ben  Dollard  had  a  "base  barreltone  voice.  He  has 
legs  like  barrels  and  you'd  think  he  was  singing  into  a  barrel. 
Now,  isn't  that  wit?  They  used  to  call  him  big  Ben.  Not  half  as 
witty  as  calling  him  base  barreltone.  Powerful  man  he  was  at 
stowing  away  number  one  Bass.  Barrel  of  Bass.  See?  It  all 
works  out. 

A  procession  of  whitesmocked  sandwich  .men  marched  slowly 
towards  him  along  the  gutter,  scarlet  sashes  across  their  boards. 
Bargains.  Like  that  priest  they  are  this  morning:  we  have  sinned: 
we  have  suffered.  He  read  the  scarlet  letters  on  their  five  tall  white 
hats:  H.  E.  L.  Y.  S.  Wisdom  Hely's.  Y  lagging  behind  drew  a 
chunk  of  bread  from  under  his  foreboard.  crammed  it  into  his 
mouth  and  munched  as  he  walked.  Three  bob  a  day,  walking 
along  the  gutters,  street  after  street.  Just  keep  skin  and  bone  to- 
gether, bread  and  skilly.  They  are  not  Boyl:  no:  M'Glade's  men. 
Doesn't  bring  in  any  business  either.  I  suggested  to  him  about  a 
transparent  showcart  with  two  smart  girls  sitting  inside  writing 
letters,  copybooks,  envelopes,  blottingpaper.    I  bet  that  would  have 


The    Little     Review  31 


caught  on.  Smart  girls  writing  something  catch  the  eye  at  once. 
Everyone  dying  to  know  what  she's  writing.  Wouldn't  have  it  of 
course  because  he  didn't  think  of  it  himself  first.  Well  out  of  that 
ruck  I  am.  Devil  of  a  job  it  was  collecting  accounts  of  those  con- 
vents. Tranquilla  convent.  That  was  a  nice  nun  there,  really 
sweet  face.  Sister?  Sister?  I  am  sure  she  was  crossed  in  love  by 
her  eyes.  Very  hard  to  bargain  with  that  sort  of  woman.  I  dis- 
turbed her  at  her  devotions  that  morning.  Our  great  day,  she 
said.  Feast  of  Our  Lady  of  Mount  Carmel.  Sweet  name  too:  cara- 
mel. She  knew  I,  I  think  she  knew  by  the  way  she.  li-  she  had 
married  she  would  have  changed.  I  suppose  they  really  were  short 
of  money.  Fried  everything  in  the  best  butter  all  the  same.  Sister? 
It  was  a  nun  they  say  invented  barbed  wire. 

He  crossed  Westmoreland  street  when  apostrophe  S  had  plod- 
ded by.  Rover  cycleshop.  Those  races  are  on  today.  How  long 
ago  is  that?  Year  Phil  Gilligan  died.  We  were  in  Lom.bard  street 
west.  Wait:  was  in  Thorn's  .  Got  the  job  in  Wisdom  Hely's  year 
we  married.  Six  years.  Ten  years  ago:  ninetyfonr  he  died,  yes 
that's  right  the  big  fire  at  Arnott's.  Val  Dillon  was  lord  mayor. 
Milly  was  a  kiddy  then.  Molly  had  that  elephant  grey  dress  with 
the  braided  frogs.  She  didn't  like  it  because  I  sprained  my  ankle 
first  day  she  wore  it,  choir  picnic  at  the  Sugarloaf.  As  if  that. 
Never  put  a  dress  on  her  back  like  it.  Fitted  her  like  a  glove,  shoul- 
der and  hips.  Just  beginning  to  plump  it  out  well.  Rabbitpie  we 
had  that  day.    People  looking  after  her. 

Happy.  Happier  then.  Snug  little  room  that  was  with  the 
red  wallpaper.  Milly 's  tubbing  night.  American  soap  I  bought: 
elder  flower.  Cosy  smell  of  her  bathwater.  Funny  she  looked 
soaped  all  over.    Shapely  too. 

He  walked  along  the  curbstone. 

Stream  of  life.  iWh'at  was  the  name  of  that  priesty-looking 
chap  was  always  squinting  in  when  he  passed?  Stopped  in  Citron's 
saint  Kevin's  parade.  Pen  something.  Pendennis?  My  memory 
is  getting.     Pen  .  .  .  ?  ^ 

Bartell  d'Arcy  was  the  tenor,  just  coming  out  then.  Seeing 
her  home  after  practice.  Conceited  fellow  with  his  waxedup  mous- 
tache.    Gave  her  that  song  Whtds  that  blow  from  the  south. 

Windynig'ht  that  was  I  went  to  fetch  her,  there  was  that  ■ 
lodge  meeting  on  about  those  lottery  tickets  after  Goodwin's  con- 


J)  The    Little    Review 


cert  in  the  supperroom  of  the  mansion  bouse.  He  and  I  behind. 
Sheet  of  her  music  blew  out  of  my  hand  against  the  high  school 
railings  .  Lucky  it  didn't.  Thing  like  that  spoils  the  effect  of  a 
night  for  her.  Professor  Goodwin  linking  her  in  front.  Shaky  on 
his  pins,  poor  old  sot.  Remember  her  laughing  at  the  wind,  her 
blizzard  collar  up.  Corner  of  Harcourt  road  remember  that  gust? 
Brrfoo!^  Blew  up  all  her  skirts  and  her  boa  nearly  smothered  old 
Goodwin.  She  did  get  flushed  in  the  wind.  Remember  when  we 
got  home  raking  up  the  fire  and  frying  up  those  pieces  of  lap  of 
mutton  for  her  with  the  Chutney  sauce  she  liked.  And  the  mulled 
rum.  Could  see  her  in  the  bedroom  from  the  hearth  unclasping  her 
stays.    White. 

Swish  and  soft  flop  her  stays  made  on  the  bed.  Always  warm 
from  her.  Always  liked  to  let  herself  out.  Sitting  there  after  till 
near  two,  taking  out  her  hairpins.  Milly  tucked  up  in  beddyhouse. 
Happy.    Happy.    That  was  the  night 

—  O  Mr.  Bloom,  how  do  you  do? 

—  O  how  do  you  do,  Mrs.  Breen? 

—  No  use  complaining.  How  is  Molly  those  times?  Haven't 
seen  her  for  ages. 

—  In  the  pink,  Mr.  Bloom  said  gaily.  Milly's  down  in  Mul- 
lingar,  you  know. 

—  Is  that  so? 

—  Yes,  in  a  photographer's  there.  Getting  on  like  a  house 
on  fire.    How  are  all  your  charges? 

—  All  on  the  baker's  list,  Mrs.  Breen  said 
How  many  has  she?    No  other  in  sight. 

—  You're  in  black  I  see.    You  have  no  ...  . 

—  No  Mr.  Bloom  said.    I  have  just  come  from  a  funeral. 
Going  to  crop  up  a|l  day,  I  foresee. 

—  O  dear  me,  Mrs.  Breen  said,  I  hope  it  wasn't  any  near  re- 
lation. 

May  as  well  get  her  sympathy. 

—  Dignam,  Mr  Bloom  said.  An  old  friend  of  mine.  He  died 
quite  suddenly  poor  fellow.  Heart  trouble,  I  believe.  Funeral  was 
this  morning. 

Your  funeral's  tomorrow 
While  you're  coming  through  the  rye. 
Diddlediddle  dumdum 
Diddlediddle 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  33 

—  Sad  to  lose  the  old  friends,  Mrs  Breen's  womaneyes  said 
melancholily. 

Now  that's  quite  enough  about  that.  Just:  quietly:  husband. 
—  And  your  lord  and  master? 

Mrs  Breen  turned  up  her  two  large  eyes.  Hasn't  lost  them 
anyhow. 

— ^^0,  don't  be  talking,  she  said.  He's  a  caution  to  rattle- 
snakes. He's  in  there  now  with  his  lawbooks  finding  out  the  law 
of  libel.    He  has  me  heartscalded.    Wait  till  I  show  you. 

Hot  mockturtle  vapour  and  steam  of  newbaked  jampuffs  poured 
out  from  Harrison's.  The  heavy  noonreek  tickled  the  top  of  Mr. 
Bloom's  gullet.  A  barefoot  arab  stood  over  the  grating  breathing 
in  the  fumes.    Deaden  the  gnaw  of  hunger  that  way,  - 

Opening  her  handbag,  chipped  leather.  Hatpin:  ought  to  have 
a  guard  on  those  things.  Stick  it  in  a  chap's  eye  in  the  tram.  Rum- 
maging.   Soiled  handkerchief:  medicine  bottle.    What  is  she? 

—  There  must  be  a  new  moon  out,  she  said.  He's  always 
bad  then.    Do  you  know  what  he  did  last  night? 

Her  hand  ceased  to  rummage.  Her  eyes  fixed  themselves  on 
him,  wide  in  alarm,  yet  smiling. 

—  What?     Mr  Bloom  asked. 

-     Let  her  speak.     Look  straight  in  her  eyes.     I  believe  you. 
Trust  me. 

—  Woke  me  up  in  the  night,  she  said.  Dream  he  had,  a 
nightmare. 

Indiges. 

—  Said  the  ace  of  spades  was  walking  up  the  .stairs. 

—  The  ace  of  spades!    Mr  Bloom  said  . 

She  took  a  folded  postcard  from  her  handbag. 

—  Read  that,  she  said.    He  got  it  this  morning. 

—  What  is  it?    Mr  Bloom  asked,  taking  the  card.      U.  P.? 

—  U.  P:  up,  she  said.  Someone  taking  a  rise  out  of  him.  It's 
a  great  shame  for  them  whoever  he  is. 

—  Indeed  it  is,  Mr  Bloom  said. 
She  took  bacTc  the  card  sighing. 

—  And  now  he's  going  round  to  Mr  Menton's  office.  He's  go- 
ing to  take  an  action  for  ten  thousand  pounds,  he  says. 

She  folded  the  card  into  her  untidy  bag  and  snapped  the  catch. 

Same  blue  serge  dress  she  had  two  years  ago,  the  nap  bleaching. 

Seen  its  best  days.     Wispish  hair  over  her  ears.    And  that  dowdy 


34  The    Little    Review 

toque,  three  Oild  grapes  to  take  the  harm  out  of  it.  She  used  to  be 
a  smart  dresser.  Lines  round  her  mouth.  Only  a  year  or  so  older 
than  Molly.     • 

See  the  eye  that  woman  gave  her,  passing.     Cruel. 

He  looked  still  at  her,  holding  back  behind  his  look  his  dis- 
content. Pungent  mockturtle  oxtail  mulligatawny.  I'm  hungry 
too.  Flakes  of  pastry  on  the  gusset  of  her  dress:  daub  of  sugary, 
flour  stuck  to  her  cheek.    Josie  Powell  that  was.      U".  P:  up. 

Change  the  subject. 

—  Do  you  ever  see  anything  of  Mrs.  Beaufoy,  Mr.  Bloom 
asked. 

—  Mina  Purefoy?  she  said. 

Philip  Beaufoy  I  was  thinking.  Playgoers'  club.  Matcham 
often  thinks  of  the  masterstroke.    Did  I  pull  the  chain? 

—  Yes. 

—  I  just  called  to  ask  on  the  way  in  is  she  over  it.     She's  in" 
the  lyingin  hospital  in  Holies  street.     Dr  Home  got  her  in.     She's 
three  days  bad  now. 

—  O,  Mr  Bloom  said.    I'm  sorry  to  hear  that. 

—  Yes,  Mrs  Breen  said.  And  a  houseful  of  kids  at  home.  It's 
a  very  stiff  birth,  the  nurse  told  me. 

—  0,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 

His  heavy  pitying  gaze  absorbed  her  news.  His  tongue  clacked 
in  compassion.     Dth!   Dth! 

—  I'm  sorry  to  hear  that,  he  said.  Poor  thing!  Three  days! 
That's  terrible  for  her. 

Mrs  Breen  nodded. 

—  She  was  taken  bad  on  the  Tuesday 

Mr  Bloom  touched  her  funnybone  gently,  warning  her. 

—  Mind!     Let  this  man  pass. 

A  bony  form  strode  along  the  curbstone  from  the  river,  staring 
with  a  rapt  gaze  into  the  sunlight  through  a  heavy-stringed  glass. 
Tight  as  a  skullpiece  a  tiny  hat  gripped  his  head. 

From  his  arm  a  folded  dustcoat,  a  stick  and  an  umbrella 
dangled  to  his  stride. 

—  Watch  him,  Mr.  Bloom  said.  He  always  walks  outside  the 
lampposts.    Watch ! 

—  Who  is  he  when  he's  at  home?  Mrs  Breen  asked.  Is  he 
dotty? 


• The    Little    Review 35 

—  His  name  is  Cashel  Boyle  O'Connor  Fitzmaurice  Tisdall 
Farrell,  Mr  .Bloom  said,  smiling.     Watch! 

—  He  has  enough  of  them,  she  said.  Denis  will  be  like  that 
one  of  these  days. 

She  broke  off  suddenly. 

—  There  he  is,  she  said.  I  must  go  after  him.  Goodbye. 
Remember  me  to  Molly,  won't  you? 

—  I  will,  Mr  Bloom  said. 
He  watched  her  dodge  through  passers  towards  the  shop-fronts. 

Denis  Breen  in  skimpy  frockcoat  and  blue  canvas  shoes  shuffled 
out  of  Harrison's,  hugging  two  heavy  tomes  to  his  ribs.  Like  old 
times.  He  suffered  her  to  overtake  him  without  surprise  and  thrust 
his  dull  grey  beard  towards  her,  his  loose  jaw  wagging  as  he  spoke 
earnestly. 

Off  his  chump. 

Mr  Bloom  walked  on  again  easily,  seeing  ahead  of  him  in  sun- 
light the  tight  skullpiece,  the  dangling  stickumbrelladustcoat. 
Going  the  two  days.  Watch  him!  Out  he  goes  again.  And  that 
other  old  mosey  lunatic.    Hard  time  she  must  have  with  him, 

U.  P:  up.  I'll  take  my  oath  that's  Alf  Bergan  or  Richie  Gould- 
ing.  Wrote  it  for  a  lark  in  the  Scotch  house  I  bet  anything. 
Round  to  Menton's  office.  His  oyster  eyes  staring  at  the  postcard. 
Be  a  feast  for  the  gods.  • 

He  passed  the  Irish  Times..  There  might  be  other  answers 
lying  there.  At  their  lunch  now.  Clerk  with  the  glasses  there 
doesn't  know  me.  O,  let  them  stay  there.  Enough  bother  wading 
through  fortyfour  of  them.  Wanted  smart  -lldy  typist  to  aid  gentle- 
man in  literary  work.  I  called  you  naughty  darling  because  I  do 
"not  like  that  other  world.  Please  tell  me  what  is  the  meaning.  Please 
tell  me  what  perfume  your  -wife.  Tell  me  who  made  the  world. 
The  way  they  spring  those  questions  on  you.  And  the  other  one 
Lizz'e  Twigg,  My  literary  efforts  have  had  the  good  fortune  to 
meet  with  the  approval  of  the  eminent  poet  A,  E.  (Mr  Geo.  Russell), 
No  time  to  do  her  hair  drinking  sloppy  tea  with  a  book  of  poetry. 

Best  paper  by  .long  chalks  for  a  small  ad,  James  Carlisle  made 
that.  Six  and  a  half  per  cent  dividend.  Cunning  old  Scotch  fox. 
All  the  toady  news.  Our  gracious  and  popular  vicereine.  Bought 
the  7m//'  Field  now.  Lady  Mountcashel  has  quite  recovered  after 
her  confinement  and  rode  out  with  the  Meath  hounds.  Strong  as  a 
brood  mare  some  of  those  horsey  women.    Toss  off  a  glass  of  brandy 


36  The    Little    Review 


neoi  while  you'd  say  knife.  That  one  at  the  Grosvenor  this  momin 
Up  with  her  on  the  car:  wishswish.  Think  that  pugnosed  driv 
did  it  out  of  spite. 

Poor  Mrs.  Purefoy! 

He  stood  at  Fleet  street  crossing.  A  sixpenny  at  Rowe': 
Must  look  up  that  ad  in  the  national  library.  An  eightpenny  in  ti 
Burton.     Better.     On  my  way. 

He  walked  on  past  Bolton's  Westmoreland  house.  Tea*  Tt 
Tea.    I  forgot  to  tap  Tom  Kernan. 

Sss.  Dth,  dth,  dth!  Three  days  imagine  groaning  on  a  b( 
with  a  vinegarded  handkerchief  round  her  forehead,  her  be] 
swollen  out.  Phew!  Dreadful  s"mply!  Child's  head  too  big:  f(| 
ceps.  Doubled  up  inside  her  trying  to  butt  its  way  out  blind] 
groping  for  the  way  out.  Kill  me  that  would.  Lucky  Molly  g 
over  hers  lightly.  They  ought  to  invent  something  to  stop  thi 
Twilight  sleep  idea:  queen  Victoria  was  given  that.  Time  someo 
thought  about  it  instead  of  gassing  about  the  what  was  it  the  pensi 
bosom  of  the  silver  effulgence.  They  could  easily  have  big  establis 
ments  whole  thing  quite  painless  out  of  all  the  taxes,  give  eve 
child  born  five  quid  at  compound  interest  up  to  twentyone  fi 
per  cent  is  a  hundred  shillings  and  five  tiresome  pounds  multip 
by  twenty  decimal  system  encourage  people  to  put  by  money  sa 
hundred  and  ten  and  a  bit  twentyone  years  want  to  work  it  out 
paper  come  to  a  tidy  sum  more  than  you  think. 

Not  stillborn  of  course.  They  are  not  even  register( 
Trouble  for  nothing. 

How  flat  they  look  after  all   of   a  sudden!      Peaceful   ey 
Weight  off  their  minds.     Old  Mrs  Thornton  was  a  jolly  old  so! 
Snuffy  Dr  Brady.     People  knocking  them  up  at  all  hours.     I: 
God'  sake,  doctor.     Wife  in  her  throes.     Then  keep  them  waiti  i 
months  for  their  fee.    No  gratitude  in  people.  | 

A  squad  of  constables  debouched  from  College  street,  marchi 
in  Indian  file.  Foodheated  faces,  sweating  helmets,  patting  th' 
truncheons.  After  their  feed  with  a  good  load  of  fat  soup  unc 
their  belts.  They  split  up  into  groups  and  scattered,  saluti 
towards  their  beats.  Let  out  to  graze.  A  squad  of  others,  marchi 
irregularly,  rounded  Trinity  railings,  making  "for  the  station.  Bou; 
for  their  troughs.  Prepare  to  receive  cavalry.  Prepare  to  recei 
soup. 


T  h  e    Lit  tie    Review  37 

lie  crossed  under  Tommy  Moore's  roguish  finger.  They  did 
;ht  to  put  him  up  over  a  urinal:  meeting  of  the  waters.  There  is 
t  m  this  wide  world  a  vallee.  Great  song  of  Julia  Morkan's 
;pt  her  voice  up  ito  the  very  last.  Pupil  of  Michael  Balfe's, 
sn  t  she?  - 

He  gazed  after  the  last  broad  tunic.  Nasty  customers  to 
^kle.  Jack  Power  could  tell  a  few  tales;  father  a  G  man  If  a 
low  g.ves  them  trouble  being  lagged  they  let  him  have  it  hot 
d  heavy  m  the  bridewell.  Can't  blame  them  after  all  with  the 
)  they  have.  That  horsepoliceman  the  day  Joe  Chamberlain  was 
.-en  h:s  degree  in  Trinity  he  got  a  run  for  his  money.  My  word 
did!  His  horses'  hoofs  clattering  after  us  down  Abbey  street, 
cky  I  had  the  presence  of  mind  to  dive  into  Manning's  He  did 
Tie  a  wallop,  by  George.  Must  have  cracked  his  skull  on  the 
Jblestones  I  oughtn't  to  have  got  myself  swept  along  with  those 
dicals.  All  skedaddled.  Why  he  fixed  on  me.  Right  here  it 
laxx. 

—  Up  the  Boers! 

—  Three  cheers  for  De  Wet! 

—-  We'll  hang  Joe  Chamberlain  on  a  sourapple  tree. 
Silly  billies:  mob  of  young  cube  yelling  their  guts  out.     Few 

irs  time  half  of  them  magistrates  and  civil  servants.  War  comes 
:  into  the  army  helterskelter:  same  fellows  used  to:  whether  on 
■  scaffold  high. 

Never  know  who  you're  talking  to.  Corny  Kelleher  he  has 
rvey  Duff  m  his  eye.  Like  that  Peter  or  Denis  or  /ames  Car«y 
Lt  blew  the  gaff  on  the  invincibles.  Member  of  the  corporation 
•.  Eggmg  raw  youths  on  to  get  in  the  know  all  the  time  drawing 
ret  service  pay  from  the  castle.  Why  those  plainclothes  men 
:  always  courting  slaveys.  Squarepushing  up  against  a  backdoor 
lul  her  a  bit.  And  who  is  the  gentleman  does  be  visitin'^  there ^ 
is  tlie  young  master  saying  anything?  Peeping  Tom  through 
;  key  hole.  Decoy  duck.  Hotblooded  young  student  fooling 
md  her  fat  arms  ironing. 

—  Are  those  yours,  Mary? 

—  I  don't  wear  such  things Stop  or  I'll  tell  the  missus 

you.    Out  half  the  night. 

—There  are  great  times  coming,  Mary.    Wait  till  you  see. 

—  Ah,  golong  with  your  great  times  coming. 


38  The    Little    Review 

Barmaids  too.     Tobaccoshopgirls. 

-James  Stephens'  idea  was  the  best.  He  knew  them.  Circles 
of  ten  so  that  a  fellow  couldn't  inform  on  more  than  his  own  ring. 
Turnkey's  daughter  got  him  out  of  Richmond,  off  from  Lusk. 
Putting  up  in  the  Buckingham  Palace  hotel  under  their  very  noses. 
Garibaldi. 

You  must  have  a  certain  fascination:  Parnell.  Arthur  Grif- 
fith is  a  squareheaded  fellow  but  he  has  no  go  in  him  for  the 
mob.  Want  to  gas  about  our  lovely  land.  Have  your  daughters 
inveigling  them  to  your  house.  Stuff  them  up  with  meat  and  drink. 
The  not  far  distant  day.    Homerule  sun  rising  up  in  the  nothwest. 

His  smile  faded  as  he  walked,  a  heavy  cloud  hiding  the  sun 
slowly,  shadowing  Trinity's  surly  front.  Trams  passed  one  another, 
ingoing,  outgoing,  clangmg.  Useless  words.  Things  go  on:  same: 
day  after  day:  squads  of  police  marching  out,  back:  trams  in,  out. 
Those  two  loonies  mooching  about.  Dignam  carted  off.  Mina 
Purefoy  swollen  belly  on  a  bed  groaning  to  have  a  Child  tugged  out 
of  her.  One  born  every  second  somewhere.  Other  dying  every 
second.  Since  I  fed  the  birds  five  minutes.  Three  hundred  kicked 
the  bucket.  Other  three  hundred  born,  washing  the  blood  off,  all 
are  washed  in  the  blood  of  the  lamb,  bawling  maaaaaa. 

Cityful  passing  away,  other  cityful  coming,  passing  away  too: 
other  coming  on,  *pasing  on.  Houses,  lines  of  houses,  streets, 
miles  of  pavements,  piled  up  bricks,  stones.  Changing  hands. 
This  owner,  that.  Landlord  never  dies  they  say.  Other  steps  into 
his  shoes  when  he  gets  his  notice  to  quit.  They  buy  the  place  up 
with  gold  and  ^till  they  have  all  the  gold.  Swindle  in  it  somewhere. 
Piled  up  in  cities,  worn  away  age  after  age.  Pyramids  in  sand. 
Babylon.  Big  stones  left.  Rest  rubble,  sprawling  suburbs,  jerry- 
built.     Kerwan's  houses,  built  of  breeze.     Shelter  for  the  night.  - 

No-one  is  anything. 
,,     This  is  the  very  worst  hour  of  the  day.    VitaHity.    Dull,  gloomy: 
hate  this  hour.    Feel  as  if  I  had  been  eaten  and  spewed  . 

Provost's  house.  The  reverend  Dr.  Salmon:  tinned  salmon. 
Well  tinned  in  there.  Wouldn't  live  in  it  if  they  paid  me.  Hope 
they  have  liver  and  bacon  today. 

The  sun  freed  itself  slowly  and  lit  glints  of  light  among  the 
silverware  in  Walter  Sgxton's  window  opposite  by  which  John 
Howard  Parnell  passed,  unseeing. 

There  he  is:    the  brotiher.     Image  of  him.     Haunting  face. 


T he    Little    Review  39 


Now  that's  a  coincidence.  Course  hundreds  of  times  you  think  of 
a  person  and  don't  meet  him.  Like  a  man  walking  in  his  sleep. 
No-one  knows  him.  Must  be  a  corporation  meeting  today.  They 
say  he  never  put  on  the  city  marshal's  uniform  since  he  got  the 
job.  Charley  Kavanagh  used  to  come  out  on  his  high  horse,  cocked 
hat,  puffed,  powdered  and  shaved.  Look  at  the  woebegone  walk 
of  him.  Great  man's  brother:  his  brother's  brotlier.  Drop  into  the 
D.  B.  C.  probably  for  his  coffee,  play  Chess  there.  Let  them  all 
go  to  pot.  Afraid  to  pass  a  remark  on  him.  Freeze  them  up  with 
ithat  eye  of  his.  That's  the  fascination:  the  name.  Still  David 
Sheehy  beat  him  for  south  Meath.  Simon  Dedalus  said  when  they 
put  him  in  parliament  that  Parnell  would  come  back  from  the  grave 
and  lead  him  out  of  the  house  of  commons  by  the  arm. 

Of  the  twoheaded  octopus,  one  of  whose  heads  is  the  head  upon 
which  the  ends  of  the  world  have  forgotten  to  come  while  the  other 
speaks  with  a  Scotch  accent.    The  tentacles 

They  passed  from  behind  Mr.  Bloom  along  the  curbstone. 
Beard  and  bicycle.     Young  woman. 

And  there  he  is  too.  Now  that's  really  a  coincidence:  second 
time.  With  the  approval  of  the  eminent  poet  Mr.  Geo.  Russell. 
That  might  be  Lizzie  Twigg  wi^  him.  A.  E.:  What  does  that  mean? 
Initials  perhaps.  Albert  Edward,  Arthur  Edmund,  Alphonsus  Eb 
jEd  El  Esquire.  What  was  he  saying?  The  end  of  the  world  with  a 
iScotch  accent.  Tentacles:  octopus.  Something  occult:  symbolism. 
Holding  forth.  She's  taking  it  all  in.  Not  saying  a  word.  To  aid 
gentleman  in  literary  work. 

His  eyes  followed  the  high  figure  in  homespun,  beard  and  bicy- 
cle, a  ilisteniing  woman  at  his  side.  Coming  from  the  vegetarian. 
Only  wegebobbles  and  fruit.  They  say  its  healthier.  Wind  and 
watery  though.  Tried  it.  Why  do  they  call  that  thing  they  gave  me 
nutsteak?  To  give  you  the  idea  you  are  eating  rumpsteak.  Ab- 
surd. 

Her  stockings  are  loose  over  her  ankles.  "  I  detest  that :  so 
basteless.  Those  literary  etereal  people  they  are  all.  Dreamy, 
loudy,  symbolistic.  Esthetes  they  are.  I  wouldn't  be  surprised  if 
i  was  that  kind  of  food  you  see  produces  the  like  waves  of  the 
Drain  the  poetical.  For  example  one  of  those  policemen  sweating 
[rish  stew  into  their  shirts  you  couldn't  squeeze  a  line  of  poetry 
)ut  of  him.  Don't  know  what  poetry  is  even.  Must  be  in  a 
:ertain  mood. 


4X>  T he    Little    Review 

The  dreamy  cloudy  gull 
Waves  o'er  the  waters  dull 

He  crossed  at  Nassau  street  corner  and  stood  before  the  window 
of  Yeates  and  Son,  pricing  the  fieldglasses.  Or  will  I  drop  into 
old  Harris's  and  h'kve  a  chat  with  young  Sinclair?  Well  mannered 
fellow.  Probably  at  his  lunch.  Must  get  those  old  glasses  of  mine 
set  right.  Goerz  lenses  seven  guineas.  Germans  making  their 
way  everywhere.  Sell  on  easy  terms  to  capture  trade.  Might  chance 
on  a  pair  in  the  railway  lost  property  office.  Astonishing  the 
things  people  leave  behind  them  in  trains  and  cloakrooms.  What 
do  they  be  thinking  about?  Women  too.  Incredible.  There's  a 
little  watch  up  there  on  the  roof  of  the  bank  to  test  those  glasses  by. 

His  lids  came  down  on  the  lower  rims  of  his  irises.  Can't  see 
it.     If  you  imagine  it's  there  you  can  almost  see  it.     Can't  see  it. 

He  faced  about  and,  standing  between  the  awnings,  held  out 
his  right  hand  at  arm's  length  towards  the  sun.  Wanted  to  try 
that  often.  Yes:  completely.  The  tip  of  his  little  finger  blotted 
out  the  sun's  disk.  Must  be  the  focus  where  the  rays  cross.  If  I 
had  black  glasses.  Interesting.  There  was  a  lot  of  talk  aJbout 
those  sunspots  when  we  were  in  Lombard  street  west.  Terrific  ex- 
plosions they  are.  There  will  be  a  total  eclipse  this  year:  autumn 
some  time. 

Now  that  I  come  to  think  of  it  that  ball  falls  at  Greenwich 
time.  It's  the  clock  is  worked  by  an  electric  wire  from  Dunsink. 
Must  go  out  there  some  first  Saturday  of  the  month.  If  I  could 
get  an  introduction  to  professor  Joly  or  learn  up  something  about 
his  family.    That  would  do  to:  man  always  feels  complimented. 

Ah. 

His  hand  fell  again  to  his  side. 

Never  know  anything  about  it.  Waste  of  time.  Gasballs 
spinning  about  crossing  each  other,  passing.  Same  old  dingdomg 
always.  Gas:  then  solid:  then  world:  then  cold:  then  dead  shell 
drifting  around,  frozen  rock  like  that  pineapple  rock.  The  moon. 
Must  be  a  new  moon  out,  she  said.    I  believe  there  is. 

He  went  on  by  la  maison  Claire. 

Wait.  The  full  moon  was  the  night  we  were  Sunday  fortnight 
exactly  there  is  a  new  moon.  Walking  down  by  the  Tolka.  She 
was  humming:  The  young  May  moon  she's  beaming,  love..  He 
other  side  of  her.  Elbow,  arm.  He.  Glowworm's  lamp  is  gleam- 
ing, love.    Touch.    Fingers.    Asking .  Answer.    Yes. 


T  he   Lit  tl  e    Review  41 


Stop.    Stop.    If  it  was  it  was.    Must. 

Mr.  Bloom,  quickbreathing,  slowlier  walkij^g,  passed  Adam 
court. 

With  a  deep  quiet  relief  his  eyes  took  note  this  is  the  street 
here  middle  of  the  day  Bob  Doran's  bottle  shoulders.  On  his  annual 
bend,  M'Coy  said.  Up  in  the  Coombe  with  chummies  and  street- 
walkers and  then  the  rest  of  the  year  as  sober  as  a  judge, 

Yes.  Thought  so.  Sloping  into  the  Empire.  Gone.  Where 
Pat  Kinsella  had  his  Harp  theatre.  Broth  of  a  boy  Dion  Boucicault 
business  with  his  harvestmoon  face  in  a  poky  bonnet.  Three  Purty 
Maids  from  School.  How  time  flies,  eh?  Showing  long  red  panta- 
loons under  his  skirts.  Drinkers,  drinking,  laughed.  More  power, 
Pat.  Coarse  red:  fun  for  drunkards:  guffaw  and  smoke.  His  par- 
boiled eyes.  Where  is  he  now?  Beggar  somewhere.  The  harp 
that  once  did  starve  us  all. 

I  was  happier  then.  Or  was  that  I?  Or  am  I  now  I?  Twenty 
eight  I  was.  She  twentythree.  Can't"^bring  back  time.  Like  hold- 
ing water  in  your  hand.  Would  you  go  back  to  then?  Just  be- 
ginning then.  Would  you?  Are  you  not  happy  in  your  home,  you 
poor  little  naughty  boy?  Wants  to  sew  on  buttons  for  me.  I  must 
answer.    Write  it  in  the  library. 

Grafton  street  gay  with  housed  awnings  lured  his  senses.  Mus- 
lin prints,  silkdames  and  dowagers,  jingle  of  harnesses,  hoof-thuds 
lowringing  on  the  baking  causeway.  Thick  feet  that  woman  had 
in  the  white  stockings.  Countrybred.  All  the  beef  to  the  heels 
were  in  .  Always  gives  a  woman  clumsy  feet.  Molly  looks  out  of 
plumib. 

He  passed,  dallying,  the  windows  of  Brown  Thomas,  silk  mer- 
cers. A  tilted  urn  poured  from  its  mouth  a  flood  of  bloodhued  pop- 
lin: lustrous  blood.  The  huguenots  brought  that  hergr-  Lacaiis  esant 
tara  tara.  Great  chorus  that.  Tarce  tara.  Must  be  washed  in 
rainwater.     Meyerbeer.     Tara:   bom  bom  bom. 

Pincushions.  I'm  a  long  time  threatening  to  buy  one.  Sticks 
them  all  over  the  place. 

He  bared  slightly  his  left  forearm.  Scrape:  nearly  gone.  Not 
today  anylhow.  -Must  go  back  for  that  lotion.  For  her  birthday 
perhaps.  •  Junejulyaugseptember  eighth.  Nearly  three  months  off. 
Then  she  mightn't  ilke  it.  Women  won't  pick  up  pins.  Say  it 
cuts  lo. 


42  T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Review 


Gleaming  silks,  petticoats  on  slim  brass  rails,  rays  of  flat  silS 
stockings. 

Useless  to  go  back.     Had  to  be.     Tell  me  all. 

High  voices.  Sunwarm  silk.  Jingling  harnesses.  All  for  a 
woman,  home  and  houses,  silkwebs,  silver,  rich  fruits  spicy  from 
Jaffa.     Agendath  Netaim.     Wealth  of  the  world. 

A  warm  human  plumpness  settled  down  on  his  brain.  His 
brain  yielded.  Perfume  of  embraces  all  him  assailed.  With  hun- 
gered flesh  obscurely  he  mutely  craved  to  adore. 

Duke  street.  Here  we  are.  Must  eat.  The  Burton.  Fee! 
better  then. 

He  turned  Combridge's  corner,  still  pursued.  Jingling  hoof- 
thuds.  Perfumed  bodies,  warm,  full.  All  kissed,  yielded:  in  deep 
summer  fields,  tangled  pressed  grass,  in  trickling  hallways  of  tene- 
ments, along  sofas,  creaking  beds. 

—  Jack,  love! 

—  Darling! 

—  Kiss  me,  Reggie! 

—  My  boy! 

—  Love! 

His  heart  astir  he  pushed  in  the  door  of  the  Burton  restaurant 
Stink  gripped  his  trembling  breath:  pungent  meatjuice,  slush  oj 
greens. 

Men,  men,  men. 

Perched  on  high  stools  by  the  bar,  hats  shoved  back,  at  the 
tables  calling  for  more  bread  no  charge,  swilling  wt)lfing  gobfuls  of 
sloppy  food,  their  eyes  bulging,  wiping  wetted  moustaches.  A  man 
with  an  infant's  napkin  tucked  round  him  spooned  gurgling  soup 
down  his  gullet.  A  man  spitting  back  on  his  plate:  gristle  gums:  no 
teeth  to  chew  it.     Chump  chop  he  has.     Sad  booser's  eyes. 

—  Roast  beef  and  cabbage. 

—  One  stew. 

Smells  of  men.  Spaton  sawdust,  sweetish  warmish  cigarette 
smoke,  reek  of  plug,  spilt  beer,  the  stale  of  ferment. 

His  gorge  rose. 

Couldn't  eat  a  morsel  here.    Get  out  of  it. 

He  gazed  round  the  stooled  and  tabled  eaters,  tightening  the 
wings  of  his  nose. 

—  Two  stouts  here. 

—  One  corned  and  cabbage. 


The    Little    Review  43 

That  fellow  ramming  a  knifeful  of  cabbage  down.  Give  me 
the  fidgets  to  look.  Second  nature  to  him.  Born  with  a  silver 
knife  in  his  mouth.  That's  witty,  I  think.  Or  no.  Silver  means 
bom  rich.    Born  with  a  knife.    But  then  the  allusion  is  lost. 

An  illgirt  server  gathered  sticky  clattering  plates.  Rock,  the 
bailiff,  standing  at  the  bar  blew  the  foamy  crown  from  his  tankard. 
Well  up:  it  splashed  yellow  near  his  boot. 

Mr.  Bloom  raised  two  fingers  doubtfully  to  his  lips.  His  eyes 
said:  , 

—  Not  here.    Don't  see  him. 
.  Out. 

He  backed  towards  the  ~door.  Get  something  light  in  Davy 
Byrnes'.     Keep  me  going.     Had  a  good  breakfast. 

—  Roast  and  mashed  here. 

—  Pint  of  stout.  "  "  '^^ 
Every  fellow  for  hfs  own,  tooth  and  nail.  Gulp.  Grub.  Gulp. 
He  came  out  into  clearer  air  and  'turned  back  towards  Grafton 

street.    Eat  or  be  eaten. 

Suppose  that  communal  kitchen  years  to  come  perhaps.  All 
trotting  down  with  a  porringer  to  be  filled  John  Howard  Parnell 
example  the  provost  of  Trinity  every  mother's  son  don't  talk  of 
your  provosts  and  provost  oj  Trinity  women  and  children  cabmen 
priest  parsons  fieldmarshals  archbishops  Father  O'Flynn  would  make 
hares  oj  them  all.  Want  a  souppot  as  big  as  the  Phoenix  park. 
Then  who'd  wash  up  all  the  plates  and  forks?  Might  be  all  fefeding 
on  tabloids  that  time.    Teeth  getting  v;orse  and  worse. 

After  all  there's  a  lot  in  that  vebetarian  fine  flavour  of  things 
from  the  earth  garlic  of  course  it  stinks  Italian  organgrinders  crisp 
of  onions  mushrooms  truffles.  Pain  to  the  animal  too.  Wretched 
brutes  there  at  the  cattlem.arket  waiting  for  the  poleaxe  to  split 
their  skulls  open.  Moo.  Poor  trembling  calves.  Meh.  Staggering 
bob.  Bubble  and  squeak.  Butchers'  buckets  wobble  I'ghts.  Give 
us  that  brisket  off  the  hook.  Plup.  Flayed  glasseyed  sheephung 
from  their  haunches,  sheepsnouts  bloodypapered  snivelling  nosejam 
on  sawdust.  Top  and  lashers  going  out.  Don't  maul  them  pieces, 
young  one. 

Hot  fresh  blood  they  prescribe  for  decline.  Insidious.  Lick  it 
up  smokinghot.     Famished  ghosts. 

Ah,  I'm  hungry. 

He  entered  Davy  Byrne's. 


1 


44  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


What  will  I  take  now?    He  drew  his  watch.    Let  me  see  no^ 

—  Hello,  Bloom,  Nosey  Flynn  said  from  his  nook. 

—  Hello,  Flynn. 

—  How's  things? 

—  Tiptop    Let  me  see.    I'll  take  a  glass  of  burgundy  ai 

...  let  me  see.  * 

Sardines  on  the  shelves.  Potted  meats.  What  is  home  witho 
Plumtree's  potted  meat?  Incomplete.  What  a  stupid  ad!  Und 
the  obituary  notices  they  stuck  it.  Dignam's  potted  meat  Canr 
bals  would  with  lemon  and  rice.  White  men  too  salty.  Like  pickl 
pork.  With  it  an  abode  of  bliss.  Lord  knows  what  concoctio 
Cauls  mouldy  tripes  windpipes  faked  up.  Kosher.  Hygiene  th 
was  what  they  call  now. 

—  Have  you  a  cheese  sandwich? 

—  Yes  sir. 

Like  a  few  olives  too  if  they  had  them.  Good  glass  of  burgu 
dy  take  away  that.     A  cool  salad.     Tom  Kernan  can  dress  .  .' 

—  Wife  well? 

—  Quite  well,  thanks A  cheese  sandwich,  then.    G< 

gonzola,  have  you? 

—  Yes,  sir. 

Nosey  Flynn  sipped  his  grog. 

—  Doing  any  singing  those  times?  , 

Look  at  his* mouth.  Could  whistle  in  his  own  ear.  Flap  e? 
to  match.  Music.  Knows  as  much  about  it  as  my  coachms 
Still  better  tell  him.     Does  no  harm. 

—  She's  engaged  for  a  big  tour  end  of  this  month.  You  m 
have  heard  perhaps. 

— No.     0,  that's  the  style.     Who's  getting  it  up? 
The  curate  served. 

—  How  much  is  ithat? 

—  Seven  d.,  sir Thank  you,  sir. 

Mr.  Bloom  cut  his  sandwich  into  slender  strips. 

—  Mustard,  sir? 
'    —  Thank  you. 

He  studded  under  each  lifted  strip  yellow  blobs. 

—  Getting  it  up?  he  said.  Well,  it's  like  a  company  idr 
you  see.     Part  shares  and  part  profits. 

—  Ay,  now  I  remember.  Nosey  Flynn  said,  putting  his  hai 
in  his  pocket  to  scratch  his  groin.     Who  is  this  was  telling  m' 


The   Little    Review  45 


't  Blazes  Boylan  mixed  up  in  it? 

A  warm  shock  of  air  heat  of  mustard  hauched  on  Mr.  Bloom's 
trt.  He  raised  his  eyes  and  met  the  stare  of  a  bilious  clock. 
JO.  Pub  clock  five  minutes  fast.  Time  going  on.  Hands  moving. 
0.    Not  yet. 

His  midriff  yearned  then  upward,  sank  within  him,  yearned 
re  longly,  longingly. 

Wine. 

He  smellsipped  the  cordial  juice  and,  bidding  his  throat 
)ngly  to  speed  it,  set  his  wineglass  delicately  down. 

—  Yes,  he  said.    He's  the  organiser  in  point  of  fact. 
No  fear.    No  brains. 
Nosey  Flynn  snuffled  and  scratched.    Flea  having  a  good  square 

al. 

—  He  made  a  tidy  bit,  Jack  Mooney  was  telling  me  over  that 
dng  match  Myler  Keogh  won  against  that  soldier  in  the  Portobello 
Tacks.     By  God  he  had  Myler  down  in  the  courutry  Carlow  he 

telling  me  ...  . 

Hope  that  dewdrop  doesn't  come  down  into  his  glass.  No, 
iffled  it  up. 

—  For  near  a  month,  man,  before  it  came  off.  Sucking  duck 
^  by  God  till  further  orders.     Keep  him  off  the  booze,  see?     0, 

God,  Blazes  is  a  hairy  chap. 

Davy  Byrne  came  forward  from  the  hindbar  in  shirtsleeves, 
aning  his  lips  with  two  wipes  of  his  napkin.    Herring's  blush. 

—  And  here's. himself  and  pepper  on  him,  Nosey  Flynn  said, 
n  you  give  us  a  good  one  for  the  Gold  cup? 

—  I'm  off  that,  Mr.  Flynn,  Davy  Byrne  answered.  I  never 
t  anything  on  a  horse. 

—  You're  right  there.  Nosey  Flynn  said. 
Mr.  Bloom  ate  his  strips  of  sandwich,  fresh  clean  bread,  with 

ish  of  disgust,  pungent  mustard  the  feety  savour  of  green  cheese. 
IS  of  his  wine  soothed  his  palate. 

Nice  quiet  bar.  Nice  piece  of  wood  in  that  counter.  Nicely 
jied.    Like  the  way  it  curves  there. 

—  I  wouldn't  do  anything  at  all  in  .that  line,  Davy  Byrne  said, 
ruined  many  a  man  the  same  horses. 

Vintners'  sweepstake.  Licensed  for  the  sale  of  beer,  wine  and 
rits  for  consumption  on  the  premises.     Heads  I  win  tails  you 


ii 


46  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


—  True  for  you,  Nosey  Flynn  said.  Uneiss  you're  in  the  know. 
There's  no  straight  sport  going  now.  Lenehan  gets  some  good  ones 
He's  giving  Sceptre  today.  Zinfandel's  the.  favourite,  lord  Howard 
de  Walden's,  won  at  Epsom.  Morny  Cannon  is  riding  him.  I 
could  have  got  seven  to  one  against  Saint  Amant  a  fortnight  before. 

—  That  so?     Davy  Byrne  said  .  . 

He  went  towards  the  window  and,  takrfig  up  the  pettycash  bock, 
scanned  its  pages.  II 

—  I  could,  faith,  Nosey  Fylnn  said,  snuffling.     That  was  a  || 
rare  bit  of  horseflesh.     She  won  in  a  thunderstorm,   Rothschild's  | 
filly,  with  wadding  in  her  ears.     Bad  luck  to  big  Ben  Bollard  and 
his  Jolm  0'  Gaunt.    He  put  me  off  it.    Ay. 

He  drank  resignedly  from  his  tumbler,  running  his  fingers 
down  the  flutes. 

—  Ay,  he  said,  sighing. 

Mr.  Bloom,  champing  standing,  looking  upon  his  sigh.  Nosey 
numbskull.  Will  I  tell  him  that  horse  Lenehan?  He  knows  al- 
ready. Better  let  him  forget.  Go  and  lose  more.  Fool  and  his 
money.  Dev/drop  coming  down  again.  Cold  nose  he'd  have  kissing 
a  woman.  Still  they  might  like.  Prickly  beards  they  like.  Dogs' 
cold  noses.  Old  Mrs.  Riordan  with  the  rumbling  stomach's  Skye 
terrier  in  the  City  Arms  hotel.  Molly  fondling  him  in  her  lap.  O  the 
big  doggybowwowsywowsy! 

Wine  soaked  and  softened  rolled  pith  of  bread  mustard  a  mo- 
ment mawkish  cheese.  Nice  wine  it  is.  Taste  it  better  because  I'm 
not  thirsty.  Bath  of  course  does  that.  Just  a  light  snack.  Then 
about  six  o'clock  I  can.    Six,  six.    Time  will  be  gone  then.    She  .  .  . 

Mild  fire  of  wine  kindled  his  veins.  I  wanted  that  badly.  Felt 
so  off  colour.  His  eyes  unhungrily  saw  shelves  of  tins,  sardines, 
gaudy  lobsters'  claws.  All  the  odd  things  people  pick  up  for  foofl. 
Out  of  shells,  periwinkles  with  a  pin,  off  trees,  snails  out  of  the 
ground  the  French  eat,  out  of  the  sea  with  bait  on  a  hook.  Silly 
fish  learn  nothing  in  a  thousand  years."  If  you  didn't  know  risky 
thing  putting  anything  into  your  mouth.  Poisonous  berries.  One 
fellow  told  another  and  so  on.  Try  it  on  the  dog  first.  Led  on  by 
the  smell  or  the  look.  Instinct.  Orangegroves  for  instance.  Need 
artificial  irrigation.  Bleibtreustrasse.  Yes  but  jvhat  about  oysters. 
Unsightly  like  a  clot  of  phlegm.  Filthy  shells.  Devil  to  open  them 
too.  Who  found  them  out?  Garbage,  sewage  they  feed  on.  Fizz 
and  Red  bank  oysters.     Effect  on  the  sexual.    Aphrodis.     He  was 


The    Little    Review  47 


n  the  Red  bank  this  morning.  Was  he  oysters  old  fish  at  table 
>erhaps  he  young  flesh  in  bed  no  June  has  no  "r"  no  oysters.  But 
here  are  people  like  tainted  game  that  archduke  Leopold  was  it, 
10,  yes,  or  was  it  Otto  one  of  those  Habsbourgs,  of  course  aristocrats, 
hen  the  others  copy  to  be  in  the  fashion.  Half  the  catch  of  oysters 
hey  throw  back  in  the  sea  to  keep  up  the  price.  Cheap  no-one  would 
►uy.  Caviare.  Do  the  grand.  Hock  in  green  glasses.  Swell  blow 
ut.  Lady  this.  Powdered  bosom  pearls.  May  I  tempt  you  to  a 
ittle  more  filleted  sole,  miss  Dubedat?  Yes,  do  bedad.  And  she 
id  bedad.  Huguenot  name  I  expect  that.  A  miss  Dubedat  lived 
p.  Killiney  I  remember.  Du  de  la  French.  Still  it's  the  same  fish 
>erhaps  old  Mickey  Hanlon  of  Moore  street  ripped  the  guts  out 
f  making  money  hand  over  fist  finger  in  fishes'  gills  can't  write 
is  name  on  a  cheque  think  he  was  painting  the  landscape  with  his 
louth  twisted  Moooikill  Aitcha  Ha  ignorant  as  a  kish  of  brogues 
(Orth  fifty  thousand  pounds. 

Stuck  on  the  pane  two  flies  buzzed,  stuck. 
Glowing  wine  on  his  palate  lingered  swallowed.  Crushing  in 
be  winespress  grapes  of  Burgundy.  Sun's  heat  it  is.  Seems  to  a 
ecret  touch  telling  me  memory.  Touched  his  sense  moistened  re- 
lembered.  Hidden  under  wild  ferns  on  Howth  below  us  bay  sleep- 
ig:  sky.  No  sound.  The  sky.  The  bay  purple  by  the  Lion's 
(jead.  Pillowed  on  my  coat  she  had  her  hair  earwigs  in  the  heather 
H:rub  my  hand  under  her  nape  you'll  toss  me  all.  O  wonder! 
'oolsoft  with  ointments  her  hand  touched  me,  caressed:  her  eyes 
pon  me  did  not  turn  away.  Ravished  over  her  I  lay  full  lips  full 
pen  kissed  her  mouth.  Yum.  Softly  she  gave  me  in  my  mouth 
le  seedcake  warm  and  chewed.  Mawkish  pulp  her  mouth  had 
mmbled  sweet  and  sour  with  spittle.  Joy:  I  ate  it:  joy.  Young 
fe,  her  lips  that  gave  me  pouting.  Soft  warm  sticky  gumjelly  lips. 
lowers  her  eyes  were  take  me  willing  eyes.  Pebbles  fell.  She 
ly  still.  A  goat.  No-one.  High  on  Ben  Howth  rhododendrons  a 
annygoat  walking  surefooted,  dropping  currants.  Screened  under 
?rns  she  laughed  warm  folded.  Wildly  I  lay  on  her,  kissed  her: 
yes,  her  lips,  her  stretched  neck  beating,  woman's  breasts  full  in 
er  blouse  of  nun's  veiling,  fat  nipples  upright.  Hot  I  tongued  her. 
he  kissed  me.  I  was  kissed.  All  yielding  she  tossed  my  hair. 
; hissed,  she  kissed  me. 
Me.    And  me  now. 


48  The    Little    Review 


Stuck,  the  flies  buzzed. 

His  downcast  eyes  followed  the  silent  veining  of  the  oaken 
slab.  Beauty:  it  curves:  curves  are  beauty.  Shapely  goddesses, 
Venus,  Juno:  curves  the  world  admires.  Can  see  them  museum 
library  standing  in  the  round  hall,  naked  goddesses.  They  don't 
care  what  man  looks.  All  to  see.  Never  speaking.  I  mean  to  say 
to  fellows  like  Flynn.  Quaffing  nectar  at  mess  with  gods  golden 
dishes  all  ambrosial.  Not  like  a  tanner  lunch  we  have,  boiled 
mutton  carrots  and  turnips  bottle  of  Allsop.  Nectar  imagine  it 
drinking  electricity:  god's  food.  Lovely  forms  of  woman  Junonian. 
Immortal  lovely.  And  we  stuffing  food  in  one  hole  and  out  behind. 
They  have  no.  Never  looked.  I'll  look  today.  Keeper  won't  see. 
Bend  down  let  some  thing  fall  see  if  she. 

Dribbling  a  quiet  message  from  his  bladder  came.  A  man  and 
ready  he  drained  his  glass  to  the  lees  and  walked  to  men  too  they 
gave  themselves  manly  conscious  lay  with  men  lovers  a  youth  en- 
joyed her  to  the  yard.  , 

When  the  sound  of  his-  boots  had  ceased  Davy  Byrne  said 
from  his  book: 

—  What  is  this  he  is?    Isn't  he  in  the  insurance  line? 

—  He's  out  of  that  long  ago,  Nosey  Flynn  said.  He  does  can- 
vassing for  the  Freeman. 

—  I  know  him  well  to  see,  Davy  Byrne  said.    Is  he  in  trouble? 

—  Trouble?    Nosey  Flynn  said.    Not  that  I  heard  of.    Why? 

—  I  noticed  he  was  in  mourning. 

—  Was  he?  Nosey  Flynn  said.  So  he  was,  faith.  I  asked 
him  how  was  all  at  home.    You're  right,  by  God.    So  he  was. 

—  I  never  broach  the  subject,  Davy  Byrne  said  humanely,  if 
I  see  a  gentleman  is  in  trouble  that  way.  It  only  brings  it  up  fresh 
in  their  minds. 

—  It's  not  the  wife  anyhow,  Nosey  Flynn  said.  I  met  him  the 
day  before  yesterday  and  he  coming  out  of  that  Irish  farm^  dairy 
John  Wyse  Nolan's  wife  has  in  Henry  street  with  a  jar  of  cream 
in  his  hand  taking  it  home  to  his  better  half.  She's  well  nourished, 
I  tell  you.    Plovers  on  toast. 

—  And  is  he  doing  for  the  Freeman?    Davy  Byrne  said. 
Nosey  Flynn  pursed  his  lips. 

—  He  doesn't  buy  cream  on  the  ads  he  picks  up.  You  may 
take  that  from  me. 

—  How  so?    Davy  Byrne  asked,  coming  from  his  book. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view  49 


Nosey  Flynn  made  swift  passes  in  the  air  with  juggling  fingers. 
le  winked. 

—  He's  in  the  craft,  he  said. 

—  Do  you  tell  me  so?    Davy  Byrne  said. 

—  Very  much  so,  Nosey  Flynn  said.  Ancient  free  and  accepted 
irder.  Light,  life  and  love,  by  God.  They  give  him  a  leg  up.  I 
ras  told  that  by  a^ —  well,  I  won't  say  who. 

—  Is  that  a  fact? 

—  O,  it's  a  fine  order.  Nosey  Fl5mn  said.  They  stick  to  you 
^n  you're  down.  I  know  a  fellow  was  trying  to  get  into  it  but 
hey're  as  close  as  damn  it.  By  God  they  did  right  to  keep  the 
WMnen  out  of  it. 

Davy  Byrne  smiledyawnednodded  all  in  one: 

—  liiiiichaaaaaaach! 

—  There  was  one  woman,  Nosey  Flynn  said,  hid  herself  in 
clock  to  find  out  What  they  do  be  doing.     But  be  damned  but 

hey  smelt  her  out  and  swore  her  in  on  the  spot  a  master  mason. 
\aX.  was  one  of  the  Saint  Legers  of  Doneraile. 

Davy  Byrne,  sated  after  his  yawn,  said  with  tearwashed  eyes. 

—  And  is  that  a  fact?  Decent  quiet  man  he  is.  I  often  saw 
im  in  here  and  I  never  once  saw  him  —  you  know,  over  the  line. 

— God  Almighty  couldn't  make  him  drunk,  Nosey  Flynn  said 

rmly.     Slips  off  when  the  fun  gets  too  hot.     Didn't  you  see  him 

)ok  at  his  watch?    Ah,  you  weren't  there.    If  you  ask  him  to  have 

drink  first  thing  he  does  he  outs  with  the  watch  to  see  what  he 

ught.  to  imbibe.    Declare  to  God  he  does. 

—  There  are  some  like  that,  Davy  Byrne  said.  He's  a  safe  man, 
'd  say. 

—  He's  not  too  bad.  Nosey  Flynn  said,  snuffling  it  up.  He  has 
een  known  to  put  his  hand  down  too  to  help  a  fellow.  Give  the 
evil  his  due.  0,  Bloom  has  his  good  points.  But  there's  one  thing 
e'U  never  do. 

His  hand  scrawled  a  dry  pen  signature  beside  his  grog. 

—  i  know,  Davy  Byrne  said 

—  Nothing  in  bl&.ck  and  white,  Nosey  Flynn  said  . 
Paddy  Leonard  and  Bantam  Lyons  came  in.     Tom  Rochford 

ollowed,  a  plaining  hand  on  his  claret  waistcoat. 

—  Day,  Mr.  Byrne. 

—  Day,  gentlemen. 
They  paused  at  the  counter. 


50  The    Little     Review 

—  Who's  standing?    Paddy  Leonard  asked. 

—  I'm  sitting  anyhow,  Nosey  Flynn  answered. 

—  Well,  what'll  it  be?     Paddy  Leonard  asked. 

—  I'll  take  a  stone  ginger,  Bantam  Lyons  said. 

—  How  much?  Paddy  Leonard  cried.  Since  when,  for  C 
sake?    What's  yours,  Tom? 

—  How  is  the  main  drainage?    Nosey  Flynn  asked,  s'pping 
For  answer  Tom  Rochford  pressed  his  hand  to  his  breastt 

and  hiccoughed. 

—  Would  I  trouble  you  for  a  glass  of  fresh  water,  Mr.  Byr 
he  said. 

—  Certainly,  sir. 

Paddy  Leonard  eyed  his  alemates. 

—  Lord  love  a  duck,  he  said,  look  at  what  I'm  standing  dr 
to!  Cold  water  and  gingerpop!  Two  fellows  that  would  suck  \\ 
ky  off  a  sore  leg.  He  has  some  bloody  horse  up  his  sleeve  for 
Gold  cup.     A  dead  snip. 

—  Zinfandel  is  it?     Nosey  Flynn  asked. 

Tom  Rochford  spilt  powder  from  a  twiisted  paper  into 
water  set  before  him. 

—  That  cursed  dyspepsia,  he  said  before  drinking. 

—  Breadsoda  is  very  good,  Davy  Byrne  said. 
Tom  Rochford  nodded  and  drank. 

—  Is  it  Zinfandel? 

—  Say  nothing.  Bantam  Lyons  winked.  I'm  going  to  pi 
five -bob  on  my  own. 

—  Tell  us  and  be  damned  to  you,  Paddy  Leonard  said, 
gave  it  to  you? 

Mr  Bloom  on  his  way  out  raised  three  fingers  in  greeting 

—  So  long,  Nosey  Flynn  said. 
The  others  turned. 

—  That's  the  man  now  that  gave  it  to  me,  Bantam  L 
whispered. 

—  Prrwht!  Paddy  Leonard  said  with  scorn.  Mr.  Byrne 
we'll  take  two  of  your  small  Jamesons  after  that  and  a 

—  Stone  ginger,  Davy  Byrne  added  civilly. 

—  Ay,  Paddy  Leonard  said,    A  suckingbottle  for  the  bab; 

(to  be  continued) 


H 


The    Little    Review  51 

THE    BOULEVARD 

Israel    Solon 
II 

ESTHER  now  had  many  things  to  think  about  and  decide.  She 
had  never  been  to  a  ball,  except  the  one  or  two  given  by  her  fa- 
ther's lodge,  an  organization  of  old  and  orthodox  Jews.  They  weren't 
really  what  you  could  call  balls  at  all.  Joyless  affairs  they  had  been, 
devised  merely  to  extract  three  dollars  from  each  member  in  ways 
not  provided  by  the  constitution  and  by-laws  of  the  order.  Now, 
this  ball  was  to  be  a  real  swell  affair.  All  the  biggest  swells  from 
the  Boulevard  would  be  at  that  ball.  A  whole  lot  of  things  had 
to  be  done  first  before  she  could  dare  to  show  her  face  at  the  ball. 

But  what  things  were  they?  Where  could  she  find  out?  Take, 
for  instance,  the  very  first  thing,  the  dress.  What  was  she  to  do 
about  it?  WTiere  would  she  find  a  dressmaker?  How  decide  the 
style?  the  kind  and  color  of  goods?  the  trimmings?  She  asked 
(Of  every  likely  person  that  came  into  the  shop,  but  they  knew 
nothing  themseilves  and  only  tried  to  guess,  and  confused  her  the 
■more.  How  could  she  expect  anybody  on  Maxwell  Street  to  know 
what  you  had  to  do  for  a  swell  ball !  Of  course  she  expected  nothing 
from  her  old-fashioned  mother.  Esther  felt  irritated  all  the  day  at 
her  work,  and  was  troubled  in  her  sleep  at  night. 

But  it  was  her  old-fashioned  mother  proved  of  help_ after  all. 

"Mind  me,  Estherkin."  she  said  one  morning.  "You  go  to 
Mollie  Mandel.  She  will  fix  everything  for  you  and  you  won't  have 
to  worry  no  more." 

What?  How  was  that?  For  a  moment  Esther  stood  speechless. 
Then  the  color  came  into  her  face  and  her  eyes  glowed  so  that 
you  never  would  have  known  it  was  the  safne  Esther.  So  much 
she  had  worried!  So  much!  And  all  for  nothing  at  all.  That's 
the  way  things  go  sometimes.  You  got  to  have  the  bread  knife. 
Where  did  it  get  lost?  You  are  sure  you  saw  it  only  a  little,  minute 
ago.  You  look  and  you  look  and  you  look,  cveryvi^ere.  Go,  do, 
make  something!  It  is  as  if  the  earth  had  opened  up  and  swal- 
lowed it.     All  of  a  sudden  —  there!     You  are  holding  it  in  your 


52  The    Little    Review 


two  hands.    And  you  are  lucky  when  there  is  nobody  around  to  laugh 
at  you. 

Mollie  Mandel  did  decide  everything — "as  of  course  she  could 
not  help  doing,"  was  the  way  Esther  put  it,  "with  all  the  things 
that  woman  knows  and  so  good  to  everybody."  Mollie  Mandel,  a 
masterful  female,  whose  home  is  farthest  from  her  sphere,  is,  never- 
thdess,  not  altogether  wanting  in  tenderness;  besides  which,  the 
assertion  of  her  mastery  requires  that  she  do  things  for  others. 
In  her  own  way,  of  course. 

"The  dressmaker?"  she  mocked,  amused  at  Esther's  simplicity. 
"That  is  really  a  terrible  worry.    Don't  be  such  a  silly!     My  own^ 
modiste  makes  all  the   swellest  gowns   for  all   the  ladies  of  the- 
Boulevard." 

Mdlie  Mandel  then  half-closed  her  eyes  and  swept  Esther  up 
and  down  and  across,  several  times.    In  the  end  she  said  definitely: 

"Deary,  you'll  get  an  evening  gown  and  a  swell  one." 

A  faint  gasp  escaped  Esther.  She  did  not  know  what  a  swell 
evening  gown  made  by  a  Boulevard  dressmaker  meant.  It  sounded 
to  her  as  if  it  must  cost  a  terrible  lot  of  money. 

Mollie  Mandel  got  her  at  once.  She  laid  a  bejeweled  hand  on 
Esther's  shoulder  in  her  most  affectionate  sales-lady  manner;  but 
she  spoke  in  her  don't-let-it-happen-again  tone,  one  word  at  a  time, 
that  it  might  sink  in  properly: 

"Listen  to  me,  giriy.  I'm  going  to  ^ell  you  something.  Never 
be  afraid  of  spending  money.  Your  father  will  like  you  that  much 
better  for  it.  The  more  you  cost  the  more  he'H  think  of  you.  All 
men  are  like  that.  They  never  know  how  good  you  are  until  they 
find  out  how  much  you  cost." 

Esther  had  never  heard  anyone  talk  like  that  before,  and  she 
wondered  what  made  Mdlie  talk  like  that.  That  Mollie  Mandel's 
words  represented  a  way  of  seeing  life  and  living,  a  practical  philos- 
ophy, was  beyond  Esther.  Mollie  Mandel  saw  this,  and  concluded 
that  Esther's  case  was  quite  hopeles.  As  well  go  and  bark  at  the 
moon,  for  all  the  good  it  is  likely  to  do  you.  But  to  consume  your 
liver  because  of  it  certainly  did  not  pay;  so  she  tilted  her  chin  and 
said  in  a  tired  voice: 

"Wdl,  what  have  you  got  to  say  now?" 

Esther  could  say  nothing.  That  was  precisely  it.  But  it  was 
not  to  have  been  expected  that  Mdlie  Mandel  would  feel  this,  or 
trouble  herself  because  of  it.    But  Esther's  purpose  was  in  the  pres- 


T  he    Li  t  tie    Re  view  53 

ent  instance  as  well  served  by  MolHe  Mandel's  need  to  be  active. 
She  hustled  Esther  into  the  Mandel  family's  electric  motor — a 
solemn,  deliberate,  sumptious,  purple  structure,  with  electric  lights 
in  the  walls  and  roof,  and  cut  glass  containers  holding  artificial 
flowers — ;  and  before  Esther  had  had  time  to  become  decently 
frightened,  she  was  hustled  out  again. 

Mollie  Mandel  exchanged  some  words  with  the  dressmaker,  and 
Esther  was  made  to  turn  around  a  number  of  times,  and  ordered  to 
walk  this  way  and  that  and  back  again.  Mollie  Mandel  talked  fast, 
and  the  dressmaker  kept  saying.  "Oh,  yes.  Quite  right  .  Stunning. 
Splend'd."  In  the  meanwhile,  Esther  was  being  measured,  and  be- 
came more  and  more  be\^ildered.  Then  Mollie  Mandel  picked 
up  her  hand  bag  of  real  alligator  skin  .with  solid  gold  trimming,  and 
motioned  for  Esther  to  follow  her,  but  she  halted  and  said  to  the 
dressmaker,  this  time  quite  d'stinctly:  "Emerald  green  chiffon  over 
burnt  orange  satin,  chiffon  sleeves,  quarter  length,  and  V  neck — 
all  r'ght."    And  the  dressmaker  replied,  "Yes,  Madame  Mandel." 

■Esther  was  by  now  thoroughly  frightened.  She  saw  herself  at 
the  ball.  Anns  bare.  Shoulders  bare.  Under  all  those  lights.  That 
might  be  all  right  for  the  girls  of  the  Boulevard.  But  for  Malkin 
tlie  baker's  daughter,  a  Maxwell  Street  girl!  She  gave  a  quick  look 
around  the  room.  But  there  was  no  one  that  might  have  come  to 
her  aid. 

In  desperation  Esther  turned  her  head  kom  side  to  side  and 
cried  hysterically,  "No,  no,  no!" 

Mollie  Mandel  almost  lost  patience.  There  was  ingratitude  for 
you  .  But  what  could  you  expect? 

'"My  dear  child.  You  just  leave  these  things  to  me."  She  spoke 
from  her  priviliged  position  as  a  lady  o-f  the  Boulevard.  "You've 
been  wearing  things  much  too  subdued  for  your  age  and  style  of 
beauty.  That's  why  nobody  noticed  you.  You  can  just  depend 
on  what  I'm  telling  you.  You've  got  to  jump  in  their  faces  if  you 
want  people  to  notice  you." 

Esther  had  never  before  felt  so  utterly  helpless.  It  was  like 
trying  to  keep  yourself  from  falling  in  a  dream.  Mollie  Mandel 
stepped  back  and  looked  Esther  over  critically,  then  came  up  close 
and  felt  of  Esther's  person. 

"My!"  she  called  out  in  her  sweetest  voice.  "What  nice  fat 
houlders  you've  got!     You  ain't  got  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of,  you 


z' 


54  T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view 


little  goose!     Don't  shake  your  head  like  a  horse.     I  know  these 
things  better,  deary." 

Then,  of  a  sudden,  she  seemed  to  have  made  an  amazing  dis 
eovery,  and  she  shouted: 

"Why,  just  look  at  your  eyes!  Beau-ti-ful,  perfectly  beu-tir 
ful,  that's  what  they  are!  —  And  the  hair!  Deary,  you  don't  know 
how  lucky  you  are.  There  ain't  a  girl  in  five  hundred  has  got  eyes 
and  hair  like  yours.  Don't  look  at  me  like  a  baby.  I  know  what 
I'm  talking  about.  You'll  see.  On  the  dancing  floor.  They'll  fall 
over  each  other.  Wait  till  we  get  to  that  ball.  You'll  see!  But  you 
got  to  do  as  I  tell  you."  And  Mollie  Mandel  smiled  a  mellow,  know- 
ing smile. 

Esther  stared  at  her  bewildered.  Could  it  be  true?  She  could 
not  resist  looking  into  the  dressmaker's  tall  mirror,  though  Mollie 
was  watching  her.  It  was  so  pleasant  to  believe;  she  'could 
not  resist  it  .  It  was  like  letting  herself  sink  into  sleep  when  she 
was  tired.    She  had  to  look  into  the  mirror  again  and  again. 

Yes,  she  did  have  beautiful  eyes  and  hair. 

''Mollie  —  Mrs.  Mandel,"  Esther  began,  her  eyes  filling  with 
tears.  "You're  so  good.  You  know  so  much.  I  don't  know  no- 
body.   What  could  I  do " 

She  had  to  stop  or  she  would  have  burst  out  crying,  and  in  a 
strange  house. 

"Now,  Esther.    Never  mind  that,  dear " 

A  strange  thing  had  happened.  Mollie  Mandel,  Who  had  al- 
ways been  attracted  only-  by  brute  ruggedness,  who  would  have 
stopped  to  watch  a  man  shaking  rats  out  of  a  trap  in  the  midst  of 
trembling  terriors,  and  would  have  enjoyed  the  sight,  but  who  never 
noticed  a  fallen  horse  or  a  ragged  fist-ful  of  an  old  woman  with  a 
few  pencils  in  a  bony  hand  —  Mollie  Mnadel  was  moved  at  the  sight 
of  Esther's  dumb  helplessness,  moved  almost  to  the  melting  mood. 
The  humor  passed  over  her  and  was  gone.  The  next  moment  she 
was  her  old  self  again  and  quite  all  right.     She  said: 

"Just  wait!  Your  mother  will  catch  it  from  me.  To  let  you 
go  around  like  that!  But,  don't  you  care,  deary  .  Wait  till  we 
get  to  that  ball.    They'll  fall  over  each  other;  you'll  see." 

Esther,  simple,  timid,  ploddng  Esther,  was  fascinated.  Mollie 
Mandel  had  given  her  strange  courage,  vaulting  desires.  Why  nol 
she  like  so  many  of  the  others?    With  such  eyes  and  hair! 

Her  eyes  quickened;  her  hair  became  neater  and  more  attractive 


The    Little    Review  55 

ill  ire  body  caught  the  infection  which  showed  itself  in  her 

,  y  move  and  gesture.     There  was  a  new  buoyncy  in  her  step. 

\  ing  purpose  appeared  in  her  face.     Men  got  up  in  the  street 

id  offered  her  their  seats;   and  even  lifted  their  hats  to  her, 

;  ,.)  a  real  lady.  -Her  mother,  also,  became  more  attentive: 

'Sit  down  a  little,  Estherkin,"  she  would  say  fetching  a  chair. 
Ui  been  standing  on  your  feet  all  the  morning."  At  another  time 
1  ivould  say:  '"Go  upstairs  now,  Esther,  and  lay  down  a  little. 
Hist  be  tired."  Or  "Go  now,  take  a  little  walk.  It'll  be  good 
u.  I'll  lock  up  the  shop  myself."  And,  "Here's  a  little  pres- 
nfor  you.  I  see  all  the  girls  got  it.'  Or,  "Here's  a  nice  apple  for 
0.  (laugh terkin.    Eat  it  to  your  good  health." 

However  tired  Esther  felt  at  the  end  of  the  day's  work,  she 

■(Id  not  go  to  bed  now  without  trying  on  the  ball  dress.     The 

r>,  the  mere  thought  of  which  had  in  the  beginning  frightened 

so,  by  the  time  she  had  tried  it  on  half  a  dozen  times,  turned 

to  be  really  very  nice.     She  practiced  walking  in  front  of  her 

ser  mirror.     Her  shoulders- maybe  were  a  little  too  full;   but 

er  anyhow  as  all  bones,  like  some  of  the  girls    .She  had  always 

J  her  hair  in  front  and  had  never  known  that  it  could  be  made 

cx)k  so  swell  in  the  back  and  sides.     She  would  now  put  up  her 

•  and  let  it  down  again,  arranging  it  first  one, style  and  then  an- 

r,  without  being  able  to  make  up  her  mind  which  she  liked  her- 

best  in.     The  new  silver  mesh  bag,  which  never  should  have 

the  bureau  drawer  except  when  going  for  a  walk  on  Sabbath 

moons,  she  carried  about  with  her  every  day  in  the  bake-shop. 

would  let  a  customer  wait  when  she  wanted  to  look  into  the  tiny 

ror. 

There  were  times  now  when  Esther  saw  herself  stepping  along 

leafy  lanes  of  Douglas  Park,  or  sitting  on  the  rock  at  the  edge 

iie  lagoon,  or  reclining  in  the  bow  of  a  row  boat.     And  always 

P'e  w^as  now  a  man  beside  her.    At  his  touch  a  soft  warmth  would 

h  her  body.     His  whole  appearance,  his  voice,  what  he  said  and 

,  were  tender  and  considerate;  and  he  seemed  able' to  understand 

as  if  he  were  inside  her  own  head.     But  she  was  never  able  to 

5h  sight  of  him.     Always  he  would  disappear  around  the  corner 

ler  eye  when  she  tried  to  get  a  look  at  him.    He  was't  a  baker, 

knew.    He  was  much  grander.    He  was  a  gentleman. 

Then  maybe  there  would  pass  before  her  eyes  a  flash  no  bigger 

n  a  tiny  pin.    But  after  that  everything  was  changed.    She  would 


$6  The    Little    Review 


a 


t 


i> 


see  herself  back  of  the  counters  of  her  father's  bake-shop  in  Maxwe 
Street.  She  would  have  to  end  her  days  like  Rachel  Kaplan,  gra 
haired,  sunken-eyed  and  flat  chested. 

The  day  of  the  ball  found  Esther  all  atremble.  The  weeks  < 
preparation,  her  constantly  changing  moods,  When  neither  hope  n< 
fear  would  aoide,  were  more  than  she  could  bear  up  under.  Esthe 
who  had  grown  fat  and  strong  through  years  of  patient  ploddinj 
became  pale  and  weak  during  the  short  period  of  her  wrestling  wil 
the  unknown.  It  was  little  help  she  was  to  her  mother  the  day  < 
the  ball.  She  would  let  things  slip  from  her  hands,  kept  forgettit 
what  she  was  about,  and  had  to  be  watched  at  making  change. 

Could  she  dance  good  enough?  What  could  she  say  to  h( 
swell  partner?  She  would  maybe  have  to  make  a  lot  of  smart  tal 
and  be  funny.  She  could  only  make  a  fool  of  herself  and  be  laughc 
at.    She  would  die  of  shame,  right  there  on  the  spot. 

Silently,  nervously,  all  day  her  mother  followed  her,  on  ti 
verge  o^  tears  because  of  her  helplessness.  She  knew  what  trouble 
her  daughter,  but  had  no  power  to  do  anything.  Wasn't  it  a  frigh 
ful  thing  to  have  to  stand  by  and  look  on  while  your  own,  mo3 
precious  than  the  eye  in  your  head,  was  suffering,  and  you  able  ' 
do  nothing.  It  was  late,  but  she  could  not  get  herself  to  urge  Esthe 
to  remind  her  how  terribly  necessary  it  was  that  she  should  look  h 
best  at  the  ball.    Finally,  she  did  manage  to  say: 

"Daughterkin,  you  got  to  hurry  up  a  little  and  get  dress* 
now.  I  got  everytl.ing  ready  for  you  on  the  bed." 

Praised  be  the  Exalted  One!  What  a  relief  that  was!  SI 
helped  Esther  to  her  room,  taking  hold  of  her  arm  only  to  let  j 
of  it  and  run  ahead  a  step  or  two,  then  returning  to  grasp  at  til 
arm  again.  From  time  to  time  she  would  think  of  something 
cheer  her  daughter  with,  and  of  something  to  shield  her  again 
possible  harm. 

"It  ain't  as  if  you  didn't  know  nobody  on  the  ball,  Estherki 
Mollie  Mandel  she  will  be  there  waiting  for  you,  and  she  can  do 
whole  lot  where  she  wants  to.  I  help  you  a  little  maybe,  yes? 
will  be  quicker.  You  got  to  dance  all  the  evening,  and  I  got  to  ( 
nothing  at  all  only  sit  with  my  arms  folded  like  a  princess  and  re 
myself  .  See,  daughterkin,  titiat  looks  good  on  you.  May  we  have  ! 
good  a  year!  Now  sit  a  little  down.  Oh,  yes,  Estherkin,  you  g( 
to  do  that.    You  got  to  sit  a  little  down  before  you  go  out,  so  yc 


I 


!; 


1 


The    Little    Review  57 

e  well  received  where  you  go.  That  we  may  be  speak  only  in  the 
our  of  grace  —  how  nice  you  look!  Step  out  with  the  right  foot 
rst,  daughterkin;  with  the  right  one,  yes.  So.  Let  you  only  have 
good  luck  now!" 

Mollie  Mandel  was  overcome  with  a  feeling  of  her  own  good- 
ess  when  she  saw  Esther  entering  the  hall,  and  rushed  over  to  meet 
er. 

"You  look  perfectly  chaiming,  deary!" 

She  almost  meant  that.  Esther's  mass  of  black  hair  and  her 
rge  black  eyes  fused  with  her  air  of  frightened  wandering.  Her 
)rmer  stolidity,  the  steamy  redness  of  her  compelxion,  the  pudginess 
f  her  hands,  had  disappeared.  A  tired  pallor  now  veiled  the  flat 
iitlines  of  her  features,  and  made  her  appear  distant  and  pathetic, 
tid  what  the  ghetto  calls  "gentle,"  as  distinguished  from  inordinate 
ealth,  which  is  coarse,  low  and  peasant-like.  Mollie  Mandel  felt 
npelled  to  reassure  Esther: 

"You're  nervous,  ain't  you,  girly?  That'll  wear  off.  Two 
irns  around  the  hall  with  one  of  the  swell  fellows  I  got  picked  out 
)r  you,  and  you  won't  recognise  youreelf.  Let  me  see  how  nice 
d\x  can  smile.  Stingy!  Show  your  teeth.  That's  better.  See, 
ou  look  better  already!" 

Esther  looked  about  the  hall  as  soon  as  she  found  herself 
ifely  seated.  The  longer  she  looked  the  more  pleased  she  became. 
*he  countless  lights  blinking  from  inside  pink  paper  flowers,  the 
>oped  red  and  green  paper  festoons,  the  hundreds  of  beaming 
oung  faces,  the  floor  that  you  could  ahnost  see  yourself  in  —  that 
as  what  you  could  really  call  a  ball.  That  given  by  her  father's 
►dge  was  just  plain  nothing  at  all  compared  with  this.  Yes,  it  was 
x>d  she  came,  if  only  just  to  look  at  it  once. 

The  orchestra  struck  up  "Hop  Along  Solly."  From  all  about 
le  hall  came  the  sound  of  scraping  chairs  and  shufiling  feet.  Mol- 
Mandel  gave  a  signal,  and  Esther's  smiling  partner  came  up 
owing.         ^ 

"Esther,  meet  Mr.  Lewis.     Miss  Malkin,  Mr.  Lewis." 

She  paid  no  attention  to  what  she  wa^  saying,  for  she  knew 
le  words  of  the  introduction  by  rote,  like  a  religious  formula, 
sther  let  go  of  Mollie  Mandel 's  hand  and  started  away. 

"Just  leave  it  to  her,"  Mollie  Mandel  said,  nudging  Mrs.  Mal- 
in.    "You  can  just  bet  her  little  head  ain't  stuffed  with  oakum." 


58  T  he    Little    Review 


"Swell,  ain't  it?'  Abe  Lewis  turned  to  Esther,  making  a  sta 
at  conversation. 

"You're  a  swell  dancer,"  Esther  replied,  blushing. 

She  caught  the  sound  of  her  voice,  and  was  frightened  at  iti 
boldness.  She  never  had  believed  herself  capable  of  talking  like  tha 
and  to  a  strange  man.  It  struck  her  that  real  ladies  would  not  tal 
like  that. 

"Are  you  kidding  me  or  showing  me  a  good  time?"    Abe  Lew 

tried  again.  , 

Esther  knew  that  she  ought  to  make  some  sort  of  a  reply,  bi 
it  was  all  she  could  do  to  keep  in  step.  Suddenly  she  found  herse 
in  the  seat  beside  her  mother  .  The  music  had  stopped.  It  WJ 
like  waking  in  the  midst  of  a  beautiful  dream. 

"You  got  a  good  time  tonight,  ain't  you,  daughterkin?" 

"Yes."    Esther  felt  so  good  she  could  not  talk. 

"The  next  dance  you  got  with  Dave  Cohen,  yes?" 

Esther  felt  of  her  hair  for  loose  pins.  She  did  not  want  h 
mother  to  see  that  she  would  not  talk  of  Dave  Cohen. 

"I  hear  he's  a  good  lawyer,  wha.t?" 

Esther  made  no  answer.  She  did  not  know  why  she  did  n 
want  to  talk  of  Dave  Cohen.  He  was  small,  and  he  was  dark,  wi 
sharp,  uneven  features  and  pointed  eyes  —  not  at  all  like  the  m« 
she  had  of  late  been  dreaming  about.  But  Dave  Cohen  was  i 
educated  man.  His  hand  was  soft  and  pleasant,  and  his  touch  w 
soft  and  pleasant;  his  voice  was  soft  and  pleasant,  and  his  sm 
was  soft  and  pleasant.  He  made  her  feel  good  and  she  wasn't 
bit  afraid  of  him.  He  was  a  real  gentleman.  Nobody  had  e\ 
talked  to  her  the  way  he  had  talked  to  her  when  MoUie  Mandel  h 
introduced  him.  He  had  said  —  How  did  he  say  it?  There,  s 
forgot  it  already!  And  she  was  so  sure  that  she  never  would  forj 
it.  He  had  sa'd—  No.  He  had  said—  "Esther  was  always 
pretty  name,  now  it's  a  pretty  girl."  That  was  how  he  said  it!  A 
he  said  it  so  nice  she  didn't  even  have  to  get  red. 

"Estherkin,  sit  up  a  little  more  nice.    Here  he  comes  alread) 

"I'lU  take  good  care  of  her,  Mrs.  Malkin,"  Dave  Cohea  sa: 
leading  Esther  onto  the  dancing  floor  .  And  he  smiled  like  to  ] 
own  mother.  ■  It  was  a  real  pleasure,  a  nice  young  man  like  that. 

"Excuse  me,  Mr.  Cohen,"  Esther  pleaded  when  he  saved  I 
from  slipping.    "I'm  all  mixed  up  tonight." 


I 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  59 


'' Pardon  me!     It  was  my  fault,  Esther—    You  don't  mind  my 

(lling  you  Esther,  do  you?     Thanks.     It's  awfully  good  of  you. 

jlrmit  me.    There!     Wasn't  that  clever  of  me?    I  learnt  that  help- 

fU  my  sister.    Oh,  I  can  do  lots  of  things,  I  can!     That  was  Judge 

n-ahams."  he  informed  her,  refering  to  the  man  with  whom  he 

Id  just  exchanged  greetings.     That  was  Congressman  Passover." 

It  was  nice  to  be  among  swells.     Her  being  a  Maxwell  Street 

didn't  matter  at  all.    She  could  see  everybody  watching  her.  To- 

nv  all  Maxwell  Street  would  talk  of  her.     Dave  said  he  learnt 

iielping  his  sister.    That  was  funny.    He  didn't  have  no  sister. 

never  thought  of  that  when  he  said  it.     Maybe  she  should  ask 

ni.    Maybe  he  said  it  to  be  funny?     That  was  funny.     She  never 

ou2jht  of  that. 

''Will  you  give  me  all  the  dances  I  want?"  Dave  Cohen  asked 
iddenly.  'He  asked  it  with  a  twinkle  in  hiis  eye.  He  knew  he  was 
;king  too  much  for  the  first  time.  Then  he  added.  "The  last  dance 
ir.ine.  remember.    I  won't  have  it  any  other  way." 

"The  last  dance  maybe  I  can't  give  you,  Mr.  Cohen.    I  don't 
low  when  father  will  come  for  mother  and  me." 

^' Now,  Esther!  That  isn't  a  bit  nice  of  you.  Can't  I  be  trusted 
)  see  you  home  safely?     That's  part  of  the  fun!" 

Before  returning  her  to  her  mother  he  had  insisted  on  her 
j'mg  into  the  buffet  with  Mm,  where  he  ordered  Peach  Melba  for 
v().  And  he  never  even  looked  at  the  printed  card.  Esther  could 
ot  hide  her  amazement  at  the  dish.  And  the  taste  was  a  wonderful 
ling!  Then  she  saw  him  leave  fifteen  cents  on  the  little  table.  She 
new  that  was  for  the  girl  who  waited  on  them.  Then  he  paid 
fry  cents  more  to  the  cashier.  Sixty-five  cents!  She  had  always 
anted  to  go  into  the  drug  store  and  treat  herself  for  once  to  a 
^n  cents'  ice  cream  soda;  but  in  the  end  she  always  crossed  the 
treet  to  the  Greek's  and  got  one  for  a  nickel.  But  she  could  not 
lake  up  her  mind  that  it  w^as  a  siin  he  had  spent  so  much  on  her. 
;ixty-five  cents!     She  knew  she  would  have  to  tell  of  it. 

'  "The  last  dance,  Esther! "  Dave  Cohen  said,  putting  up  a  warn- 
ng  finger.  And  he  bowed  and  smiled  to  Esther  and  her  mother. 
•Remember,  I  won't  have  it  any  otlier  way! " 

So  many  dances  with  Dave  Cohen  where  everybody  could  see 
;  hem!  How  beautiful  everybody  looked!  She  saw  Mollie  Mandel 
■  coming  towards  her,  and  straightened  up. 


6o  The    Little    Review 


"Fll^be  with  you  in  a  moment,  ladies,"  Mol'lie  Mandel  said  1 
her  two  bosom-^roud  companions.  "Keep  it  up,"  she  snapped  int 
Esther's  ear.    "You're  doing  fine.    What  did  I  tell  you!" 

Mollie  Mandel  was  like  a  messenger  from  God,  but  the  bloe 
rushed  into  Esther's  head  and  she  could  not  say  a  word. 

"Better  go  and  fix  up  a  little,  daughterkin,"  her  beamin 
mother  advised  softly.  "The  hair,  and  a  little  powder  mayb 
You're  glad  you  came  to  the  baill,  yes?    I'm  so  happy!" 

Esther  started  for  the  retiring  room.  The  greed  of  the  famisiw 
was  upon  her,  and  she  would  not  speak  of  her  happiness.  She  hij 
reached  only  just  inside  the  door,  when  she  was  brought  to  a  stop  !j 
voices  coming  from  the  other  slide  of  the  screen: 

"Malkin's  got  oodles  of  money " 

"Dave's  killing  it.    She'll  catch  on- 


" Don't  you  suppose  she  can  see  he's  maldng  fun  of  her!" 

"Just  leave  it  to  Dave,"  Mollie  Mandel's  voice  said.  "She  Wc 
running  her  legs  off  in  that  hole  in  Maxwell  Street.  I  jollied  ht 
along  a  bit  and  got  Dave  to  help  me.  Now  she's  having  the  time  ( 
her  young  life.    Did  I  tell  you  ladies  how  shef  came  to  be  here? 

Esther's  hands  went  out  for  something  to  steady  herself  b; 
She  felt  her  way  back  into  the  hall.  There  she  stood,  blinded  t 
the  lights,  swaying.  A  group  began  to  form  around  her,  and  hr 
mother  rushed  over. 

"What's  the  matter,  daughterkin,  tell  me!     You  feel  not  good: 

"We  got  to  go  home!"  Esther  cried  hysterically.  "Ri^ 
away " 

Her  head  began  to  swim,  and  her  knees  gave  way.  She  n 
membered  nothing  more." 

"Daughterkin,  answer  me."  A  voice  came  to  her  as  throug 
a  thick  wall.  "You  got  too  much  excited  last  night  on  the  ball,  ain 
you,  child  of  miine?    Answer  me!" 

Ball?  Excitement?  Ball?  Esther  tried  to  piece  them  t< 
gether.    'Wliy  was  she  in  bed  so  late? 

"The  father  says,"  her  mother's  droning  voice  continued,  "ti 
father  says,  when  our  daughterkin  gets  strong  again  we  go  to  loo 
for  a  house  on  the  Boulevard." 

The  final  incident  of  the  ball  burst  in  upon  Esther.  She  tume 
her  frightened  face  towards  her  mother: 

"No,  no!     Not  on  the  Boulevard!" 


jl 

The    Little    Review  6i 


"Wliy,  Esther!  Sure  we  got  to  move  on  the  Boulevard.  You'll 
l^ite  all  the  swell  friends  you  made  on  the  ball  and  not  have  to  be 
tiamed  for  our  house.  Give  a  look  what  kind-eh  nice  flowers 
ive  Cohen  brought  you  all  ready  so  early." 

The  mother  had  saved  the  most  joyous  bit  of  news  for  the 
t. 

"Where?"  And  Esther's  eyes  went  searching  the  room.  Why 
How  was  that  possible  after  what  she  had  overheard?  There,  sure 
ough,  on  the  dresser  in  the  water  pitcher  was  an  armful  of  Ameri- 
1  beauty  roses.  "Dave,  he  brought  them?"  She  feared  believing 
)  readily.    "Dave  himself?" 

"Sure,"  Mrs.  Malkin  replied,  trying  hard  to  keep  her  joy 
thin  bounds.  "He  comes  back  again  later.  He  said  so.  He  had 
go  to  the  judge  for  nine  o'clock  for  something.  He  comes  back; 
comes  back  many  times,  lot  of  times.  I  can  see  in  his  face." 
rs.  Malkin  wanted  her  daughter  to  understand  her  beyond  the 
;aning  of  her  words,  more  than  she  could  get  herself  to  utter.  And 
;  was  glad  to  see  that  Esther  understood  her.  "The  flowers 
5t  a  dollar,  and  maybe  sometimes  two  dollars  yet,  what?" 

"Them  flowers  you  get  for  two  dollars?  Oh,  yes,  sure!"  She 
uld  not  resist  exulting  just  the  least  bit.  "They  cost  five  dollars 
ten  dollars  maybe  for  sure." 

"Ten  dollars! "  Mrs.  Malkin  cried  out.  "We  got  to  move  right 
ay  on  the  Boulevard!" 

"Yes,  mother.    We  got  to  move  on  the  Boulevard." 


ote  on  "The  Dreaming  of  the  Bones" 

This  is  the  second  play  by  Mr.  Willfam  Butler  Yeats  written  in 
;  manner  of  the  Japanese  Noh  plays.     I  think  it  is  more  successful 
in  his  play  in  the  Noh  form,   The  Hawk's  Well,  and   that  in  this 
ly  he  has  caught  the  spirit  of  the  old  Noh  plays  perfectly. 
Those  who  are  familiar  with  Ezra  Pound's  extraordinarily  beauti- 

rendering  of  the  Noh  plays,  based  upon  the  translations  of  Ernest 
nnollosa,  will  not  need  to  be  told  how  perfectly  Mr.  Yeats  has 
ught  the  spirit  of  the  Noh  plays  in  The  Dreaming  of  the  Bones. 
>  those  who  are  not  familiar  with  the  Noh  plays,  a  brief  note  on  the 
)h  drama  would  be  almost  useless.     But,  apart  from  the  form  of 


3 


62  TheLittleReview 

the  play,  a  few  words  giving  the  point  of  view  irom  which  it^ 
written  may  not  be  amiss. 

The  Young  Man  of  the  play  is  typical  of  a  large  number 
young  Irishmen  of  today.  When  America  comes  to  weigh  Irelai 
reasons  for  rejecting  conscription,  the  belief  of  such  young  ] 
should  be  remembered.  Some  years  ago  the  then  Speaker  of 
American  House  of  Representatives,  Honorable  Thomas  B.  Ri 
one  day  overheard  one  of  his  colleagues  cursing  another  member 
cause  the  member  "was  so  damned  provincial".  Reed  drawled, 
to  his  colleague  "But  why  curse  him  for  his  provinciality?  Pro- 
ciality  is  a  fact,  just  as  the  weather  is  a  fact,  and  not  something 
be  angry  or  to  curse  about."  So  in  the  case  of  the  Young  Mai 
the  play,  it  is  not  a  question  of  what  he  ought  to  believe,  but  of  -w 
he  docs  believe.  It  is  a  matter  to  understand  and  to  weigh  and  to 
member  and  not  a  matter  merely  to  get  angry  abqut. 

This  notable  play  may,  therefore,  be  regarded  as  a  symbol  of 
ideas  and  ideals  of  a  large  number  of  young  men  in  Ireland  to 
My  allusion  to  provinciality  has  no  relation  to  the  provincialit: 
the  learned  Irish  judge  who  some  years  ago  made  the  speech  w 
has  become  so  well-known  as  a  matter  of  Dublin  folk-lore,  cone 
ning  the  efforts,  then  only  in  their  beginning,  to  revive  the  I 
language.  The  short  speech  of  the  great  Irish  orator  John-  F.  Ta 
in  reply  on  that  occasion  is  imbedded,  like  a  jewel,  in  James  J03 
Ulysses,  Episode  VII.  (the  Little  Review  for  October  1918,  page 
and  4S).  There  the  judge  who  argued  against  the  revival  of  the  ] 
language  showed  himself  to  be  the  provincial.  But  whether  ar 
titude  or  a  movement  or  a  refusal  or  a  rejection,  like  that  of 
scription,  is  or  is  not  provincial,  should,  it  would  seen,  be  determ 
by  the  times  or  the  events  existing  at  the  time  and  not  from 
merely  traditional  point  of  view. 

Of  course  it  is  not  implied  that  everyone  in  Ire/and  is  fu 
the  notion  that  England  has  always  been  to  Kathleelr-ni-Houlil 
a  kind  of  Bluebeard. 

There  are  many  other  political  points  of  view  i/'  Ireland, 
this  play  represents  an  important  point  of  view. 

The  Little  Review  is  to  be  congratulated  upon  bein?  able  to 
lish  this  play,  for  it  is  full  of  the  charm  and  unfailing  distinctio 
William  Butler  Yeats  at  his  best.     At  a  time  when  other  magaj 
are   full   of   reconstruction    stuff  and   discussions  of   various   pse 
psychological  solutions  of  business,  economic  and  international  p 


The    Little    Review  63 


ms,  —  stuff  that,  with  all  respect,  sounds  like  the  vaporings  of 
ary  Baker  G.  Eddy  in  international  affairs,  with  pseudo-science  and 
leudo-prophecy  as  "the  key  to  the  future",  the  Little  Review  is  lucky 
being  able  to  publish  this  moving  poem,  full  of  true  romance, 
ade  out  of  sorrow  and  tragedy  and  out  of  loneliness  and  desolation. 

/.  Q. 

THE      READER    CRITIC 

T  0    j  h 

ola  Ridge,  New   York   City: 

May  all  the  ancient  and  non-plebeian  gods  praise  you  for  that 
tter  in  the  November  number.  You  can't  continue  to  let  any  one 
)ck  the  Little  Review.  And  E.  P.  has  for  some  time  needed  just 
ich  a  cool  and  unperturbed  hand  to  press  him  back  into  his  seat.  It 
n't  his  knocking  —  that  waste  of  creative  (and  destructive)  energy 
his  look-out;  America's  so-easily  abraded  and  so-quickly  healing 
dn  needs  all  it  can  get  —  of  whip-cuts,  not  of  mud  and  rotten  eggs, 
nd  there's  something  about  Pound's  vituperations  that  savors  of 
>ne  too  remote  gutters  —  and  rival  stalls  and  tongues  akimbo  and 

rrings   obvious  in  a  rising  temperature. 

I've  sometimes  felt  like  saying  something  like  this  out  loud  but 
-  I'm   frugal!    and    theii   he's   done   lovely   things   and    I   admire   his 

Id  shining  thin-glass  mind  through  which  so*many  colors  pass 
aving  no  stain  —  and  then  —  my  stone-arm  balks  at  swinging  in 
lythm  with  the  mob's. 

rrick  Johns;  St.  Louis: 

I  am  not  a  very  discriminating  critic,  perhaps,  but  I  depend  upon 
le  Little  Review  for  a  certain  section  of  the  eccentric  joy  existence 
ives  me.  I  especially  liked  Eliot's  poetry,  which  Marsden  Hartley 
isapproves.  Pound  is  always  readable,  but  not  more  always  so  than 
le  pungent  irritability  of  "jh".  Joyce's  novel  has  one  negligible 
[lapter  from  the'  standpoint  of  my  undei  standing,  but  absolutely 
eggars  appreciation  in  other  spots.  From  Hecht  and  Sherwood 
.nderson  I  derive  awe,  but  little  response.  One  is  apt  suddenly  to 
e  reminded  one  is  reading  nearly  all  that  is  worth  while  in  cur- 
jnt  writing  in  your  pages.     This  is  perhaps  a  little  too  inclusive. 


64  T  he    Li  t  tie    Review 

W.  C.  W.: 

You  have  your  foot  in  the  jam  of  the  door  and  your  services  ai 
flamingo-viringed  compared  of  those  of  the  builders  of  the  cathedr 
of  St.  John  the  Divine. 

I  appreciate  your  great  services  to  me  and  my  kind.  We  caniM 
be  told  what  to  write.  You  are  the  only  periodical  anywhere  whei 
good  stufif  of  any  kind  —  poetry,  prose,  novel,  criticism  —  can  gi 
a  hearing  and  —  depending  on  the  amount  of  sense  which  you  posse: 
—  a  chance  to  be  seen.  You  are  far  more  important  than  the  U:nit« 
States  senate,  for  example  —  let  me  add  that  I  have  a  fellow  poet 
feeling   for   Wilson-'the-Sedately-Impetuous. 

G.  S.  B.,  Chicago: 

I  do  not  wish  to  renew  my  subscription  to  the  Little  Revici 
Frankly,  I  do  not  like  it  in  its  present  dress.  The  whole  make-i 
seems  like  a  tour-de-forcc  without  rhyme  or  reason.  I'm  not  a  pru< 
and  I  can  bear  any  kind  of  truths  if  there  is  a  reason  for  statir 
them.  Sensuousness  for  the  sake  of  sensuousness  does  not  appeal 
me,  and  a  striving  for  things  so  involved  that  no  one  can  understat 
them  does  not  mean  literature  to  me.  When  I  compare  the  first  ye; 
of  the  Little  Review  with  the  present  numbers  I  feel  sad.  The  on 
things  I  now  like  in  the  magazine  are  yours.  They  are  in  pla 
English. 

F.  Wilstack  {Schubert  Theatre  Offices) : 

In  the  American  number  there'  are  two  rather  likely  similie 
Ben  Hecht's  "her  lips  were  like  the  streaks  of  vermillion  lacqu 
painted  on  an  idol's  face",  and  Else  von  Freytag's  "to  beg  forgiv 
ness  with   flashing  smile,   like   amber-coloured   honey". 

Who  are  these  two  people?  I  haven't  attempted  to  look  the 
up;  but  they  don't  seem  like  American  names  for  an  Americj 
number. 

Louis  Gilmore,  New  Orleans: 

You  have  probably  noticed,  as  I  did  that  one  of  my  "Invention! 
was  appended,  by  way  of  coda  or  tail-piece  to  Hecht's  "Yellow  Goat 
Some  6f  your  readers,  not  recognizing  my  individual  note,  "ma 
render  unto  Ben  Hecht  the  Autoepitaph  that  is  Louis   Gilmore's." 


The    Little    Revie 


w 


"THE    DANCE    OF    SIVA" 

I  should  like  to  make  just  a  note  on  "The  Dance  of  Siva" 
(by  Ananda  Coomaraswamy,  published  by  the  Sunwise  Turn). 

I  am  always  humble  before  any  hint  of  the  ancient  civilization 
of  tlie  East — Chinese  or  Indian.  These  people  seem  to  have  been 
able  to  make  more  use  of  being  human  beings  than  any  other  peoples. 

There  are  fourteen  essays  in  the  book,  most  of  them  dealing 
with  Art  and  Beauty.  In  these  essays  Dr.  Coomaraswamy  has 
set  forth  suavely  and  graciously  the  findings  of  an  ultimate 
civilization  —  a  civilization  unrecognized  and  imcomprehended  in 
this  country.  I  wish  sometimes  when  there  is  so  much  talk  of 
"making  the  world  a  better  place  to  live  in"  and  the  general 
reconstruction  of  the  universe,  that  some  care  could  be  taken  to 
indicate  which  world.  It  must  all  seem  very  kind,  to  tiie  Orien- 
tals, but  rather  unnecessay. 

It  is  difficult  for  a  people  without  either  knowledge  or  in- 
tuitions to  keep  any  discriminations  clear.  It  it  quite  the  fashion 
now  to  jeer  Tagore  or,  with  Ezra  Pound,  to  say  "Good  old  Tagore". 
At  the  time  Mr,  Tagore  was  in  America  every  one  who  did  not  call 
him  a  negro  either  religionized  him  or  wrote  asking  him  to  tell 
their  fortunes. 

It  is  an  inability  to  feel  the  particular  quality  and  the  essen- 
tial difference  in  the  unfamiliar  which  produces  scoffing  and  denial. 
Denial  of  an  art  or  a  civilization  proves  nothing.  "There  are 
many  who  never  yet  felt  the  beauty  of  Egyptian  sculpture  of 
Chinese  or  Indian  painting  or  music:  that  they  have  also  the  hardi- 
hood to  deny  their  beauty,  however,  proves  nothing."  Certainly 
denial  never  can  prove  that  we  have  anything  better.  "It  is  a 
little  too  easy  to  decide  that  our  own  is  best;  we  are  at  the  most 
entitled  to  believe  it  is  the  best  for  us". 

It  is  restful  to  find  such  unimpeachable  precedent  for  some  of 
one's  most  damned  and  hooted  statements.  Many  of  our  view  con- 
sidered most  wildly  ex  cathedra  are  calmly  endorsed  in  this  history  of 
aesthetics.  For  instance:  beauty  is  a  state,  and  absolute;  a  work  of 
art  is  an  outv/ard  sign  that  the  artist  has  discovered  the  imminence  of 
the  Absolute  and  not  that  he  is  trying  to  regenerate  the  world  or  ex- 
press his  opinions,  etc. 


tsssi 


THE  STRADIVARIUS  OF  PIANOS 

jij   nFTH  AVENUE 
NEW  YORK 


K"  ANNOUNCEMENT 

The  February  number  will  have  for  its  feature  a  series  of  ar- 
ticles on  Remy  de  Gourmont.  Among  the  contributors  will  be  T.  S. 
Eliot,  Richard  Aldington,  Frederick  Manning,  John  Rodker,  T.  T. 
Clayton,  and  Ezra  Pound.  The  American  section  will  include  Wil- 
liam Carlo3  Williams,  jh,  Else  von  Freytag-Loringhoven,  Ben  Hecht, 
and  others. 


An  Of f er 

If  there  are  people  who  wish  to  make  money  in  an  easy  and 
congenial  way,  why  not  try  selling  subscriptions  to  tihe  Little  Review? 

For  every  suibscription  you  send  us  of  $2.50  we  will  give  an 
unusually  liberal  commission. 

If  you  will  call  at  our  office,  or  write  us,  we  will  si^ly  full 
information,  lists  of  names,  etc. 

This  is  a  real  opportunity  for  mutual  help. 


^xJr-)n0iM<.    IQl^^ 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  NO  COMPROMISE   WITH  THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


REMY  DE  GOURMONT  NUMBER 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

THB   MAGAZINE  THAT   IS   READ   BY   THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  THE  OTHERS 


T.  T.  Clayton 

John  Kodker 

•  vie  hard  Aldington 

Richard  Aldingiuu 

Maxwell  Bodenheim 


may  ojuLKi; ' 
James  Jo\> 


FEBRUARY-MARCH,  1919 

De  Gourmont:  A  Distinction  E^ra  i-oimu 

M.  De  Gourmont  and  the  Problem  of  Beauty 

b'rederic  Manning 
"Le  Latin  Mystique" 
De  Gourmont  —  Yank 
De  Gourmont  after  the  Interim 
Decor  Banal 
Advice  to  a  Horned  load 
Three  Professional  Studies   ll'illiam  CorLx  ii'iiiidin^ 
On  Joyce's  "Exiles" 
The  Death  of  Vorticism 
Mary  Olivier:  A  Life 
Ulysses,  Episode  Vlil 
That  International  Episode 

Copyright,  1919,  by  Margaret  Anders 

MARGARET  ANDERSON,  Editor 

EZRA   POUND,  London  Editor 
JULES   ROMAINS,   French   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  Nezv  York 

Foreign  office: 
5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London  W.  8. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  12/-  a  year. 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  March  i6,  191 7,  at  P.  O., 
New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  act  March  3,  1879. 

FiMhk^d  monthly  by  Margarei  Anderipn 


Edgai 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  February-March  No.  10-11 

DE  GOURMONT:   A  DISTINCTION 

(followed    by    notes) 

Ezra    Pound 

THE  MIND  of  Remy  de  Gourmont 'was  less  like  the  mind  of 
Henry  James  than  any  contemporary  mind  I  can  think  of. 
James'  drawing  of  moeurs  contemporaines  was  so  circumstantial, 
so  concerned  with  the  setting,  with  detail,  nuance,  social  aroma, 
that  his  transcripts  were  "out  of  date"  almost  before  his  books  had 
gone  into  a  second  edition;  out  of  date,  that  is,  in  the  sense  that 
his  interpretations  of  society  could  never  serve  as  a  guide  to  such 
supposititious  utilitarian  members  of  the  next  generation  as  might 
so  desire  to  use  them. 

He  has  left  his  scene  and  his  characters  unalterable  as  the 
little  paper  flowers  permanently  visible  inside  the  lumpy  glass 
paperweights.  He  was  a  great  man  of  letters,  a  great  artist  in  por- 
trayal, he  was  concerned  with  mental  temperatures,  circumvolvulous 
social  pressures,  the  clash  of  contending  conventions,  as  Hogarth 
;With  the  cut  of  contemporary  coats. 

-  On  no  occasion  would  any  man  of  my  generation  have  broached 
an  intimate  idea  to  H.  J.,  or  to  Thomas  Hardy,  0.  M.,  or,  years  since, 
to  Swinburne,  or  even  to  Mr.  Yeats  with  any  feeling  that  the  said 
idea  was  likely  to  be  received,  grasped,  comprehended.  However 
much  one  may  have  admired  Yeats'  poetry;  however  much  one  may 
have  been  admonished  by  Henry  James'  prose  works,  one  has  never 
thought  of  agreeing  with  either. 

You  could,  on  the  other  hand,  have  said  to  De  Gourmont  any- 
tiiing  that  came  into  your  head;  you  could  have  sent  him  anything 
you  had  written  with  a  reasonable  assurance  that  he  would  have 
known  what  you  were  driving  at.  If  this  distinction  is  purely  my 
own,  and  subjective,  and  even  if  it  be  wholly  untrue,  one  will  be  very 
hard  pressed  to  find  any  other  man  born  in  the  ''fifties"  of  whom  it 
is  even  suggestible. 


The    Little    Review 


De  Gourmont  prepared  our  era;  behind  him  there  stretches  a 
limitless  darkness;  there  was  the  counter-reformation,  still  extant  in 
the  English  printer;  there  was  the  restoration  of  the  inquisition  by 
the  Catholic  Roman  Church,  holy  and  apostolic,  in  the  year  of  grace 
1824;  there  was  the  Mephistopheles  period,  morals  of  the  opera 
left  over  from  the  Spanish  XVIIth.  century  plays  of  "capa  y  es- 
pada";  Don  Juan  for  subject  matter,  etc.;  there  was  the  period  of 
English  Christian  bigotry,  Saml.  Smiles  exhibition  of  '51  ("centen- 
nial of  '76"),  machine-made  building  "ornament"  etc.,  enduring  in 
the  people  who  did  not  read  Saml.  Butler;  there  was  the  Emerso- 
Tennysonian  plus  optimism  period;  there  was  the  "aesthetic"  era 
during  which  .people  "wrought"  as  the  impeccable  Beerbohm  has 
noted;  there  was  the  period  of  funny  symboliste  trappings,  "sin", 
Satanism,  rosy  cross,  heavy  lilies,  Jersey  Lilies,  etc., 

"Ch'hanno  perdu  to  il  ben  del  intelletto" 
—  all  these  periods  had  mislaid  the  light  of  the  XVIIIth.  century; 
though  in  the  symbolistes  Gourmont  had  his  beginning. 

II. 

In  contradiction  to,  in  wholly  antipodal  distinction  from  Henry 
James,  De  Gourmont  was  an  artist  of  the  nude.  He  was  an  intelli- 
gence almost  more  than  an  artist;  when  he  portrays,  he  is  concerned 
with  hardly  more  than  the  permanent  human  elements.  His  people 
are  only  by  accident  oj  any  particular  era.  He  is  poet,  more  by 
possessing  a  certain  quality  of  mind  than  by  virtue  of  having  writ- 
ten fine  poems;  you  could  scarcely  contend  that  he  was  a  novelist. 

He  was  intensely  aware  of  the  differences  of  emotional  timbre; 
and  as  a  man's  message  is  precisely  his  fagon  de  voir,  his  modality 
of  apperception,  this  particular  awareness  was  his  "message". 

Where  James  is  concerned  with  the  social  tone  of  his  subjects, 
with  their  entourage,  with  their  siiperstes  of  dogmatized  "form", 
ethic,  etc.,  De  Gourmont  is  concerned  with  their  modality  and  re- 
sonance in  emotion. 

"Mauve"  "Fanette",  "Neobelle",  "La  Vierge  aux  Platres,"  are 
all  studies  in  different  permanent  kinds  of  people;  they  are  not  the 
results  of  environments  or  of  "social  causes",  their  circumstance  is 
an  accident  and  is  on  the  whole  scarcely  alluded  to.  Gourmont 
differentiates  his  characters  by  the  modes  of  their  sensibility,  not  by 
sub-degrees  of  their  state  of  civilization. 


The    Little    Review 


He  recognizes  the  right  of  individuals  to  jeel  differently.  Con- 
fucian, Epicurean,  a  considerer  and  entertainer  of  ideas,  this  compli- 
cated sensuous  wisdom  is  almost  the  one  ubiquitous  element,  the 
"self"  which  keeos  his  superficially  heterogeneous  work  vaguely 
"unified". 

The  study  of  emotion  does  not  follow  a  set  chronological  arc; 
it  extends  from  the  "Physique  de  I'Amour"  to  "Le  Latin  Mystique"; 
from  the  condensation  of  Fabre's  knowledge  of  insects  to 
"Amas  ut  facias  pulchram" 

in  the  Sequaire  of  Goddeschalk 
(in  "Le  Latin  Mystique"). 

He  had  passed  the  point  where  people  take  abstract  statement 
of  dogma  for  "enlightenment".  An  "idea"  has  little  value  apart 
from  the  modality  of  the  mind  which  receives  it.  It  is  a  railway 
from  one  state  to  another,  ar,d  as  dull  as  steel  rails  in  a  desert. 

The  emotions  are  equal  before  the  aesthetic  judgment.  He 
does  not  grant  the  duality  of  body  and  soul,  or  at  least  suggests  that 
this  mediaeval  duality  is  unsatisfactory;  there  is  an  interpehetra- 
tion,  an  osmosis  of  body  and  soul,  at  least  for  hypothesis.  "My 
words  are  the  unspoken  words  of  my  body". 

And  in  all  his  exquisite  treatment  of  all  emotion  he  will  satisfy 
many  whom  August  Strindberg,  for  egregious  example,  will  not. 
From  the  studies  of  insects  to  Christine  evoked  from  the  thoughts  of 
Diomede,  sex  is  not  a  monstrosity  or  an  exclusively  German  study.* 
And  the  entire  race  is  not  bound  to  the  habits  of  the  mantis  or  of 
other  insects  equally  melodramatic.  Sex,  in  so  far  as  it  is  not  a 
purely  physiological  reproductive  mechanism  lies  in  the  domain  of 
aesthetics,  the  junction  of  tactile  and  magnetic  senses;  as  some 
people  have  accurate  ears  both  for  rhythm  and  for  pitch,  and  as 
some  are  tone  deaf,  some  impervious  to  rhythmic  subtlety  and  va- 
riety, so  in  this  other  field  of  the  senses  some  desire  the  trivial,  some 
the  processional,  the  stately,  the  master-work. 

As  some  people  are  good  judges  of  music,  and  insensible  to 
painting  and  sculpture,  so  the  fineness  of  one  sense  entails  no  cor- 
responding fineness  in  another,  or  at  least  no  corresponding  criticd 
perception  of  differences. 


'*Foot-note:  "A  German  study,  Hobson,  a  German  study."  — "Tarr". 


The    Little    Review 


III. 

Emotions  to  Henry  James  were  more  or  less  things  that  other 
people  had  and  that  one  didn't  go  into;  at  any  rate  not  in  drawing 
rooms.  The  gods  had  not  visited  James,  and  the  Muse  whom  he  so 
frequently  mentions  appeared  doubtless  in  corsage,  the  narrow  waist, 
the  sleeves  puffed  at  the  shoulders,  a  la  mode  1890-2.- 

De  Gourmont  is  interested  in  hardly  anything  save  emotions, 
and  the  ideas  that  will  go  into  them,  or  take  life  in  emotional  ap- 
plication.    (Apperceptive  rather  than  active.) 

One  reads  "LES  CHEVAUX  DE  DIOMEDE"  (1897)  as  one 
would  have  listened  to  incense  in  the  old  Imperial  court.  There  are 
many  spirits  incapable.  De  Gourmont  calls  it  a  "romance  of  pos- 
sible adventures";  it  might  be  called  equally  an  aroma,  the  fragrance 
of  roses  and  poplars,  the  savour  of  wisdoms,  not  part  of  the  canon 
of  literature,  a  book  like  "Daphnis  and  Chloe"  or  like  Marcel 
Schwob's  "Livre  de  Monelle";  not  a  solidarity  like  Flaubert;  but 
an  osmosis,  a  pervasion. 

"My  true  life  is  in  the  unspoken  words  of  my  body." 

In  "UNE  NUIT  AU  LUXEMBOURG",  the  characters  talk 
at  more  length,  and  the  movement  is  less  convincing.  "Diomede" 
was  De  Gourmont's  own  favourite  and  we  may  take  it  as  the  best 
of  his  art,  as  the  most  complete  expression  of  his  particular  "facon 
d'apercevoir";  if,  even  in  it,  the  characters  do  little  but  talk  philo- 
sopliy,  or  rather  drift  into  philosophic  expression  out  of  a  haze  of 
images,  they  are  for  all  that  very  real.  It  is  the  climax  of  his  method 
of  presenting  characters  differentiated  by  emotional  timbre,  a  pro- 
cess which  had  begun  in  "HISTOIRES  MAGIQUES"  (1895); 
and  in  "D'UN  PAYS  LOINTAIN"  (published  1898,  in  reprint 
from  periodicals  of  1892-4). 

"SONGE  D'UNE  FEMME"  (1899)  is  a  novel  of  modem  life, 
De  Gourmont's  sexual  intelligence,  as  contrasted  to  Strindberg's 
sexual  stupidity,  well  in  evidence.  The  work  is  untranslatable  into 
English,  but  should  be  used  before  thirty  by  young  men  who  have 
been  during  their  undergraduate  days  too  deeply  inebriated  with 
the  Vita  Nuova. 

"Tout  ce  qui  se  passe  dans  la  vie,  c'est  de  la  mauvaise 

litterature." 

"La  vraie  terre  natale  est  celle  oh  on  a  eu  sa  premiere 

emotion  forte." 


Thi    Little    Review 


"l^2i  virginite  n'est  pas  une  vertu,  c'est  un  etat;  c'est 
une  sous-division  des  couleurs." 

Livres  de  ohevet  for  those  whom  the  Strindbergian  school  will 
always  leave  aloof. 

"Les  imbeciles  ont  choisi  le  beau  comme  les  oiseaux 
choisissent  ce  qui  est  gras.    La  betise  leur  sert  de  cornes.*' 

"COEUR.  VIRGINAL"  (1907)  is  a  light  novel,  amusing,  and 
accurate  in  its  psychology. 

I  do  not  think  it  possible  to  overemphasize  Gourmont's  sense 
of  beauty.  The  mist  clings  to  the  lacquer.  His  spirit  was  the  spirit 
of  Omaikitsu;  his  pays  natal  was  near  to  the  peach-blossom-fountain 
of  the  untranslatable  poem.  If  the  life  of  Diomede  is  overdone  and 
done  badly  in  modern  Paris,  the  wisdom  of  the  book  is  not  thereby 
invalidated.  It  may  be  that  Paris  has  need  of  some  more  Spartan 
corrective,  but  for  the  descendants  of  witch-burners  Diomede  is  a 
needful  communication. 

IV. 

As  Voltaire  had  been  a  needed  light  in  the  i8th.  century,  so 
in  our  time  Fabre  and  Fraser  have  "been  essentials  in  the  mental  fur- 
nishings of  any  contemporary  mind  qualified  to  write  of  ethics  or 
philosophy  or  that  mixed  molasses  religion.  ''The  Golden  Bough" 
has  supplied  the  data  which  Voltaire's  incisions  had  shown  to  be 
lacking.  It  has  been  a  positive  succeeding  his  negative.  It  is  not 
necessary  perhaps  to  read  Fabre  and  Fraser  entire,  but  one  must 
be  aware  of  them;  people  unaware  of  them  invalidate  all  their  own 
writing  by  simple  ignorance,  and  their  work  goes  ultimately  to  the 
scrap  heap. 

"PHYSIQUE  DE  L'AMOUR"  (1903)  should  be  used  as  a 
text  book  of  biology.  Between  this  biological  basis  in  instinct,  and 
the  "Sequaire  of  Goddeschalk"  in  "Le  Latin  Mystique"  (1892) 
stretch  Gourmont's  studies  of  amour  and  aesthetics.  If  in  Diomede 
we  find  an  Epicurean  receptivity,  a  certain  aloofness,  an  obser- 
vation of  contacts  and  auditions,  in  contrast  to  the  Propertian  at- 
titude: 

Ingenium  nobis  ipsa  puella  facit, 

this  is  perhaps  balanced  by 


The    Little    Review 


"Sans  vous,  je  crois  bien  que  je  n'aimerais  plus  beau- 
coup  et  que  je  n'aurais  plus  une  extreme  confiance  ni  dans 
la  vie  ni  dans  moiimeme."    (in  "Lettres  a  TAmazone".) 

But  there  is  nothing  more  unsatisfactory  than  saying  that  De 
Gourmont  "had  such  land  such  ideas"  or  held  "such  and  such  views", 
the  thing  is  that  he  held  ideas,  intuitions,  perceptions  in  a  certain 
personal  exquisite  manner.  In  a  criticism  of  him,  "criticism"  be- 
ing an  over  violent  word,  in,  let  us  say,  an  indication  of  him,  one 
wants  merely  to  show  that  one  has  oneself  made  certain  dissocia- 
tions; as  here,  between  the  aesthetic  receptivity  of  tactile  and  mag- 
netic values,  of  the  perception  of  beauty  in  these  relationships,  and 
the  conception  of  love,  passion,  emotion  as  an  intellectual  instiga-  * 
tion;  such  as  Propertius  claims  it;  such  as  we  find  it  declared  in 
the  King  of  Navarre's 

"De  fine  amor  vient  science  et  beaute"; 
and  constantly  in  the  troubadours. 

(I  cannot  repeat  too  often  that  there  was  a  profound  psycholo- 
gical knowledge  in  mediaeval  Provenge,  however  gothic  its  expres- 
sion; that  men,  concentrated  on  certain  validities,  attaining  an  exact 
and  diversified  terminology,  have  there  displayed  considerable  pene- 
tration; that  this  was  carried  into  early  Italian  poetry;  and  faded 
from  it  when  metaphors  became  decorative  instead  of  interpretative; 
and  that  the  age  of  Aquinas  would  not  have  tolerated  sloppy  ex- 
pression of  psychology  concurrent  with  the  exact  expression  of  "mj^- 
ticism".    There  is  also  great  wisdom  in  Ovid.    Passons!) 

De  Gourmont's  wisdom  is  not  wholly  unlike  the  wisdom  which 
those  ignorant  of  Latin  may,  if  the  gods  favour  their  understanding, 
derive  from  Golding's  "Metamorphoses". 

V. 

Barbarian  ethics  proceed  by  general  taboos.  Gourmant's  es- 
says collected  into  various  volumes,  "Promenades",  "Epilogues", 
etc.,  are  perhaps  the  best  introduction  to  the  ideas  of  our  time 
that  any  unfortunate,  suddenly  emergiing  from  Peru,  Peoria,  Osh- 
kosh,  Iceland,  Kochin  or  other  out  of  the  way  lost  continent  could 
desire.  A  set  of  Landor's  collected  works  will  go  further  towards 
civilizing  a  man  than  any  university  education  now  on  the  market. 
Montaigne  condensed   renaissance   awareness.     Even   so   small   a 


The    Little    Review 


collection  as  Lionel  Johnson's  "Post  Liminium"  might  save  a  man 
from  utter  barbarity. 

But  if,  for  example,  a  raw  graduate  were  contemplating  a 
burst  into  intellectual  company,  he  would  be  less  likely  to  utter  un- 
utterable hetises,  gaffes,  etc.,  after  reading  Gourmont  than  before. 
One  cannot  of  course  create  intelligence  in  a  numbskull. 

Needless  to  say,  Gourmont's  essays  are  of  uneven  value  as  the 
necessary  subject  matter  is  of  uneven  value.  Taken  together,  pro- 
portionately placed  in  his  work,  they  are  a  portrait  of  the  civilized 
mind.  I  incline  to  think  them  the  iDest  portrait  available,  the  best 
record  that  is  of  the  civilized  mind  from  1885-1915. 

lliere  are  plenty  of  people  who  do  not  know  what  the  civilized 
mind  is  like,  just  as  there  are  plenty  of  mules  in  England  who  did 
not  read  Landor  contemporaneously,  or  who  did  not  in  his  day  read 
Montaigne.    Civilisation  is  individual. 

Gourmont  arouses  the  senses  of  the  imagination,  preparing  the 
mind  for  receptivities.  His  wisdom,  if  not  of  the  senses,  is  at  any 
rate  via  the  senses.  We  base  our  ''science"  on  perceptions,  but 
our  ethics  have  not  yet  attained  this  palpable  basis. 

In  1898,  "PAYS  LOINTAIN",  reprinted  from  magazine  pub- 
lication of  1892-4).    De  Gourmont  was  beginning  his  method: 

"Douze  crimes  pour  I'honneur  de  Pinfini". 
He  treats  the  special  case,  cases  as  special  as  any  of  James',  but 
segregated  on  different  demarcative  lines.     His  style  had  attained 
the  vividness  of 

"Sa  vocation  etait  de  paraitre  malheureuse,  de  pas- 
ser dans  la  vie  comme  une  ombre  gemissante,  d'inspirer  de 
la  pitie,  du  doute  et  de  I'inquie  tude.  Elle  avait  tou jours 
I'air  de  porter  des  fleurs  vers  une  tombe  abandonee."  — 
"La  Femme  en  Noir". 

In  "HISTOIRES  MAGIQUES"  (1894) :  "La  Robe  Blanche", 
"Yeux  d'eau"  "Marguerite  Rouge",  "Soeur  de  Sylvie",  "Danaette" 
are  all  of  them  special  cases,  already  showing  his  preception  of 
neurosis,  of  hyperaesthesia.  His  mind  is  still  running  on  tonal 
variations  in  "Les  Litanies  de  la  Rose". 

"Pourtant  il  y  a  des  yeux  au  bout  des  doigts". 
"Femmes,  conservatrices  des  traditions  milesiennes". 


The    Little    Review 


''EPILOGUES"  1895—98.  Pleasant  rereading,  a  book  to  leave 
lying  about,  to  look  back  into  at  odd  "half  hours.  A  book  of  accu- 
mulations.   Full  of  meat  as  a  good  walnut. 

Heterogeneous  as  the  following  paragraphs: 

"Ni  la  croyance  en  un  seul  Dieu,  ni  la  morale  ne  sont  les 
fondements  vrais  de  la  religion.  Une  religion,  meme  le  Christianisme, 
n'eut  jamais  sur  les  moeurs  qu'une  influence  dilatoire,  I'influence 
d'un  bras  leve ;  elle  doit  recommencer  son  preche,  non  pas  seulement 
avec  chaque  generation  humaine,  mais  avec  chaque  phase  d'une  vie 
individuelle.  N'apportant  pas  des  verites  evidentes  en  soi,  son  en- 
seignement  oublie,  elle  ne  laisse  rien  dans  les  ames  que  I'effroi  du 
peut-etre  et  la  honte  d'etre  asservi  a  une  peur  ou  a  une  esperance 
dont  les  chaines  fantomales  entravent  non  pas  nos  actes  mais  nos 
desirs." 

"L 'essence  d'une  religion,  c'est  sa  litterature.  Or  la  litterature 
religieuse  est  morte."  —  Religions. 

"Je  veux  bien  que  I'on  me  protege  contre  des  ennemis  inconnus, 
I'escarpe  ou  le  cambrioleur,  —  mais  contre  moi-meme,  vices  ou  pas- 
sions, non."^ —  Madame  Boulton. 

"Si  le  cosmopolitisme  litteraire  gagnait  encore  et  qu'il  reussit 
a  eteindre  ce  que  les  differences  de  race  ont  allume  de  haine  de 
sang  parmi  les  hommes,  j'y  verrais  un  gain  pour  la  civilisation  et 
pour  I'humanite  tout  entiere."  —  Cosmopolitisme. 

"Augier!  Tons  les  lucratifs  reves  de  la  bourgeoise  econome; 
tous  les  soupirs  des  vierges  confortables;  toutes  les  reticences  des 
consciences  soignees;  toutes  les  joies  permises  aux  ventres  prudents; 
toutes  les  veuleries  des  bourses  craintives;  tous  les  siphons  conju- 
gaux;  toutes  les  envies  de  la  robe  montante  contre  les  epaules  nues; 
toutes  les  haines  du  waterproof  contre  la  grace  et  contre  la  beaute! 
Augier,  crinoline,  parapluie,  bec-de-cOrbin,  bonnet  grec"  ....  — 
Augier. 

"Dieu  aime  la  melodie  gregorienne,  mais  avec  moderaton.  II 
a  soin  de  varier  le  programme  quotidien  des  concerts  celestes,  dont 
le  fond  reste  le  plain-chant  lithurgique,  par  des  auditions  de  Bach, 
Mozart,  Haendel,  Hayden,  "et  meme  Gounod".  Dieu  ignore  Wag- 
ner, mais  il  aime  la  variete."  —  Le  Dieu  des  Beiges. 


The    Little    Review 


"La  propriete  n'est  pas  sacree;  elle  n'est  qu'un  fait  acceptable 
comme  necessaire  au  developpement  de  la  liberte  individuelle"  .  .  . 

"L'abominable  loi  des  cinquant€s  ans  —  centre  laquelle  Proud- 
hon  lutta  en  vain  si  courageusement  —  commence  a  faire  sentir  sa 
tyrannic.  La  veuve  de  M.  Dumas  a  fait  interdire  la  reprise  d'An- 
tony.  Motif:  son  bon  plaisir.  Des  caprices  d'heritiers  peuvent 
d'un  jour  a  Tautre  nous  priver  pendant  cinquante  ans  de  toute  une 
oeuvre." 

"Demain  les  oeuvres  de  Renan,  de  Taine,  de  Verlaine,  de 
I  Vi'lliers  peuvent  appartenir  a  un  cure  fanatique  ou  a  une  devote 
K-  stupide."  —  La  Propriete  Litteraire. 

"M.  Desjardins,  plus  modeste,  inaugure  la  morale  artistique 
et  murale,  seconde  par  I'excellent  M.  Puvis  de  Chavannes  qui  n'y 
comprend  rien,  mais  s'avoue  tout  de  meme  bien  content  de  figurer 
sur  1^  murs."  —  U.  P.  A.  M. 

"Les  auteurs,  "avertis  par  le  Public  ..."  II  y  a  dans  ces  mots 
toute  une  esthetique,  non  seulement  dramatique,  mais  democratique. 
Plus  dinsucces.  Plus  de  fours.  Admirable  invention  par  laquelle, 
sans  doute,  le  peuple  trouvera  enfin  I'art  qui  lui  convient  et  les 
auteurs  qu'il  merite."  — Conscience  "Litteraire. 

"Le  citoyen  est  une  variete  de  I'Homme;  variete  degeneree  ou 
primitive  il  est  a  I'homme  ce  que  le  chat  de  goutiere  est  au  chat 
sauvage." 

"Comme  toutes  les  creations  vraiment  belles  et  noblement  uti- 
les, la  sociologie  fut  I'oeuvre  d'un  homme  de  genie,  M.  Herbert 
Spencer,  et  le  principe  de  sa  gloire." 

"La  saine  Sociologie  traite  de  revolution  a  travers  les  ages 
d'un  groupe  de  metaphores,  Famille,  Patrie,  Etat,  Societe,  etc.  Ces 
mots  sont  de  ceux  que  Ton  dit  collectifs  et  qui  n'ont  en  soi  aucune 
signification  I'histoire  les  a  employes  de  tous  temps,  mais  la  Sociolo- 
>  gie,  par  d'astucieuses  definitions,  precise  leur  neant  tout  en  pro- 
pageant  leur  culte. 

"Car  tout  mot  collectif,  et  d'abord  ceux  du  vocabulaire  sociolo- 
gique  sont  I'objet  d'un  culte.  A  la  Famille,  a  la  Patrie,  a  I'Etat,  a 
la  Societe,  on  sacrifie  des  citoyens  males  et  des  citoyens  femelles; 


10  The    Little    Review 


les  males  en  plus  grand  nombre;  ce  n'est  que  par  intermede,  en  temps 
de  greve  ou  d'emeute,  pour  essayer  un  nouveau  fusil  que  Ton  per- 
fore  des  femelles;  elles  offrent  au  coup  une  cible  moins  defiante  et 
plus  plaisante;  ce  sont  la  d'inevitables  incidents  de  la  vie  po- 
litique.   Le  male  est  I'hostie  ordinaire." 

"Le  caractere  fondamental  du  citoyen  est  done  le  devouement, 
la  resignation  et  la  stupidite;  il  exerce  principalement  ces  qualites 
selon  trois  fonctions  physiologiques,  comme  animal  reproducteur, 
comme  animal  electoral,  comme  animal  contribuable." 

"Devenu  animal  electoral,  le  citoyen  n'est  pas  depourvu  de 
subtilite.  Ayant  fiaire,  il  distingue  hardiment  entre  un  opportuniste 
et  un  radical.  Son  ingeniosite  va  jusqu'a  la  mefiance:  le  mot  Li- 
berte  le  fait  aboyer,  tel  un  chien  perdu.  A  I'idee  qu'on  va  le  laisser 
seul  dans  les  tenebres  de  sa  volonte,  il  pleure,  il  appelle  sa  mere,  la 
Republique,  son  pere,  i'Etat." 

"Du  fond  de  sa  grange  ou  de  son  atelier,  il  entrotient  voluntiers 
ceux  qui  le  protegent  contre  lui-meme." 

"Et  puis  songe:  si  tu  te  revoltais,  il  n'y  aurait  plus  de  lois,  et 
quand  tu  voudrais  mourir,  comment  ferais-tu,  si  le  registre  n'etait 
dIus  la  pour  accueillir  ton  nom?"  —  Paradoxes  sur  le  Citoyen. 

"Si  Ton  est  porte  a  souihaiter  un  deraillement,  il  faut  parler,  il 
faut  ecrire,  il  faut  sourire,  il  faut  s'abstenir  —  c'est  le  grand  point 
de  toute  vie  civique.  Les  actuelles  organisations  sociales  ont  cette 
tare  fondamentale  que  I'abstention  legale  et  silencieuse  les  rend  in- 
ermes  et  ridicules.  II  faut  empoisonner  I'Autorite,  lentement,  en 
jouant.  C'est  si  charmant  de  jouer  et  si  utile  au  bon  fonctionne- 
ment  humain!  II  faut  se  moquer.  II  faut  passer,  I'ironie  dans  les 
yeux,  a  travers  les  mailles  des  lois  anti-liberales,  et  quand  on  pro- 
mene  a  travers  nos  vignes,  gens  de  France,  I'idole  gouvernementale, 
gardez-vous  d'aucun  acte  vilain,  des  gros  mots,  des  violences,  — 
rentrez  chez  vous,  et  mettez  les  volets.  Sans  avoir  rien  fait  que  de 
tres  simple  et  de  tres  innocent  vous  vous  reveillerz  plus  libres  le 
lendemain."  —  Les  Faiseurs  de  Statues. 

"Charmant  Tzar,  tu  la  verras  chez  toi,  la  Revolution,  stupide 
comme  le  peuple  et  feroce  comme  la  bourgeoisie;  tu  la  verras,  depas- 
sant  en  animalite  et  en  rapacite  sanglante  tout  ce  qu'on  t'a  permis 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  ii 


de  lire  dans  les  tomes  expurges  qui  firent  ton  educaton."  —    Le 
Delire  Russe. 

"Or  un  ecrivain,  un  poete,  un  philosophe,  un  homme  des  regions 
intellectuelles  n'a  qu'une  patrie:  sa  langue."  —  Querelles  de  Belgique. 

"II  faut  encore,  pour  en  revenir  aux  assassins,  noter  que  le 
crime,  sauf  en  des  rares  cas  passionnels,  est  le  moyen  et  non  le  but." 
— Crimes. 

"Le  vers  traditionnel  est  patriotique  et  national;  le  vers  nou- 
veau  est  anarchiste  et  sans  patrie.  II  semble  que  la  rime  riche  fasse 
partie  vraiment  de  la  richesse  nationale:  on  vole  quelquechose  a 
i'Etat  en  adoucissant  la  sonorite  des  ronrons:  "La  France,  Messieurs, 
manque  de  consonnes  d'appui!"  D'autre  part,  Temploi  de  I'asson- 
nance  a  quelquechose  de  retrograde  qui  froisse  les  vrais  democrates." 

"II  est  amusant  de  voir  des  gens  qui  ne  doivent  leur  etat  "d'- 
hommes  modernes"  qu'a  la  fauchaison  brutale  de  toutes  les  tradi- 
tions Frangaises,  protester  aussi  sottement  contre  des  innovations 
non  seulement  logiques,  e  mais  inevitables.  Ce  qui  donne  quelque 
valeur  a  leur  acrimonie,  c'est  qu'ils  ignorent  tout  de  cette  question 
si  complexe;  de  la  leur  liberte  critique,  n'ayant  lu  ni  Gaston  Paris, 
ni  Darmesteter.  ni  aucun  des  ecrivains  recents  qui  etudierent  avec 
prudence  tant  de  points  obscurs  de  la  phonetique  ef  de  la  rythmique, 
ils  tirent  une  autorite  evidente  de  leur  incompetence  meme."  —  Le 
Vers  Libre  et  les  Prochaines  Elections. 

PELERIN  DU  SILENCE,  1896,  contains  Fleurs  de  Jadis,  1893, 
Chateau  Singulier,  1894,  Livre  des  Litanies,  Litanie  de  la  Rose,  * 
1892,  Theatre  Muet,  Le  Fantome,  1893.  LIVRE  DES  MASQUES, 
1896,  not  particularly  important,  though  the  preface  contains  a 
good  reformulation;  as  for  example: 

"Le  crime  capital  pour  un  ecrivain,  c'est  le  conformisme,  I'im- 
itativite,  la  soumission  aux  regies  et  aux  enseignements.  L'oeuvre 
d'un  ecrivain  doit  etre  non  seulement  le  reflet,  mais  le  reflet  grossi 
de  sa  personnalite.  La  seule  excuse  qu'un  homme  ait  d'ecrire  c'est 
de  s'ecrire  lui-meme,  de  devoiler  aux  autres  la  sorte  de  monde  qui 
se  mire  en  son  miroir  individuel.    Sa  seule  excuse  est  d'etre  original; 

*  Quoted  in  the  Little  Review,  February,  19 18. 


la  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


il  doit  dire  des  choses  non  encore  dites,  et  les  dire  en  une  forme  non 
encore  formulee.  II  doit  se  creer  sa  propre  esthetique,  —  et  nous 
devrons  admettre  autant  d'esthetiques  qu'il  y  a  d'esprits  originaux 
et  les  juger  d'apres  ce  qu'elles  sont,  et  non  d'apres  ce  qu'elles  ne 
sont  pas." 

'*L 'esthetique  est  devenue  elle  aussi,  un  talent  personnel."  *  — 
Pre j  ace, 

"Comme  tous  les  ecrivains  qui  sont  parvenus  a  comprendre  la 
vie,  c'est-a-dire  son  inutilite  immediate,  M.  Francis  Poictevin,  bien 
que  ne  romancier,  a  promptement  renonce  au  roman." 

"II  est  tres  difficile  de  persuader  a  de  certains  vieillards  — 
vieux  ou  jeunes  —  qu'il  n'y  a  pas  de  sujets;  il  n'y  a  en  litterature 
qu'un  ujet,  celui  qui  ecrit,  et  toute  la  litterature,  c'est-a-dire  toute 
la  philosophie,  peut  surgir  aussi  bien  a  I'appel  d'un  chien  ecrase  qu'- 
aux  acclamations  de  Faust  interpellant  la  Nature:  "Ou  te  saisir,  6 
Nature  infinie?    Et  vous,  mamelles?"  —  Francis  Poictevin. 

This  book  is  of  the  '90s.,  of  temporary  interest,  judgment  in 
mid-career,  less  interesting  now  that  the  complete  works  of  the  sub- 
jects are  available,  or  have  faded  from  interest.  This  sort  of  criti- 
cism is  a  duty  imposed  on  a  man  by  his  intelligence.  The  doing  it 
a  duty,  a  price  exacted  for  his  possession  of  intelligence. 

In  places  the  careless  phrase^  phrases  careless  of  sense,  in  places 
the  thing  bien  dit  as  in  Verlaine.    Here  and  there  a  sharp  sentence  as 

"M.  Moreas  ne  comprendra  jamais  combien  il  est  ri- 
dicule d'appeler  Racine  le  Sophocle  de  la  Ferte  Milion." 


or: 


"Parti  de  la  chanson  de  Saint  Leger,  il  en  est,  dit-on, 
arrive  au  XVIIeme,  siecle,  et  cela  en  moins  de  dix  annees; 
ce  n'est  pas  si  decourageant  qu'on  I'a  cru.  Et  maintenant 
que  les  textes  se  font  plus  familiers,  la  route  s'abrege;  d'ici 
peu  de  haltes,  M:  Moreas  campera  sous  le  vieux  Chene 
Hugo  et,  s'il  persevere,  nous  le  verrons  atteindre  le  but  de 
son  voyage,  qui  est  sans  doute  de  se  rejoindre  lui-meme." 
—  Jean  Moreas, 


*Each  of  the  senses  has  its  own  particular  eunuchs. 


T he    Lit  tie    Review  13 

This  first  "Livre  des  Masques"  is  of  historical  interest,  as  a 
list  of  men  interesting  at  their  time.  It  is  work  done  in  establish- 
ing good  work,  a  necessary  scaffolding;  the  debt  to  De  Gourmont, 
because  of  it,  is  ethical  rather  than  artistic.  It  is  a  worthy  thing 
to  have  done.  One  should  not  reproach  flaws,  even  if  it  appears  that 
the  author  wastes  time  in  this  criticism,  although  this  particular 
sort  of  half  energy  probably  wouldn't  have  been  any  use  for  more 
creative  or  even  more  formulative  writing.  It  is  not  a  carving  of 
statues,  but  only  holding  a  torch  for  the  public;  ancillary  writing. 
Local  and  temporal,  introducing  some  men  now  better  known  and 
some,  thank  heaven,  unknown  or  forgotten. 

DEUXIEME  LIVRE  DES  MASQUES,  1898,  rather  more  im- 
portant, longer  essays,  subjects  apparently  chosen  more  freely,  leaves 
one  perhaps  more  eager  to  read  Alfred  Valette's  "Le  Vierge"  than 
any  other  book  mentioned. 

"Etre  nul  arrete  dans  son  developpement  vers  une 
nullite  equilibree". 

We  find  typical  Gourmont  in  the  essay  on  Rictus: 

"Ici  c'est  I'idee  de  la  resignation  qui  trouble  le  Pauvre; 
comme  tant  d'autres,  il  la  confond  avec  I'idee  bouddhiste 
de  non-activite.  Cela  n'a  pas  d'autre  importance  en  un 
temps  oij  Ton  confond  tout,  et  oij  un  cerveau  capable  d'as- 
socier  et  de  dissocier  logiquement  les  idees  doit  etre  con- 
sidere  comme  une  production  miraculeuse  de  la  Nature." 

"Or  I'art  ne  joue  pas;  il  est  grave,  meme  quand  il  rit,  meme 
quand  il  danse.  II  faut  encore  comprendre  qu'en  art  tout  ce  qui 
n'est  pas  necessaire  est  inutile;  et  tout  ce  qui  est  inutile  est  mau- 
vais."  —  Jehan  Rictus. 

He  almost  convinces  one  of  Ephraim  Mikhail's  poetry,  by  his 
skilful  leading  up  to  quotation  of: 

"Mais  le  ciel  gris  est  plein  de  tristesse  caline 
Ineffablement  douce  aux  coeurs  charges  d'ennuis" 

The  essay  on  the  Goncourt  is  important,  and  we  find  in  it 
typical  dissociation. 


14  The    Little    Review 


"Avec  de  la  patience,  on  atteint  quelquefois  rexactitude,  et 
avec  de  la  conscience,  la  veracite ;  ce  sont  les  qualites  fondamentales 
de  lliistoire." 

"Quand  on  a  goute  a  ce  vin  on  ne  veut  plus  boire  I'ordinaire 
vinasse  des  bas  litterateurs.  Si  les  Goncourt  etaient  devenues  pop- 
ulaires,  si  la  notion  du  style  pouvait  penetrer  dans  les  cerveaux 
moyens!     On  dit  que  le  peuple  d'Athene  avait  cette  notion." 

"Et  surtout  quel  memorable  desinteressement!  En  tout  autre 
temps  nul  n'aurait  songe  a  louer  Edmond  de  Goncourt  pour  ce  de- 
dain  de  I'argent  et  de  la  basse  popularite,  car  I'amour  est  exclusif 
et  celui  qui  aime  I'art  n'aime  que  I'art:  mais  apres  les  exemples  de 
toutes  les  avidites  qui  nous  ont  ete  donnes  depuis  vingt  ans  par 
les  boursiers  des  lettres,  par  la  coulisse  de  la  litterature,  il  est  juste 
et  necessaire  de  glorifier,  en  face  de  ceux  qui  vivent  pour  I'argent, 
ceux  qui  vecurent  pour  I'idee  et  pour  I'art." 

"La  place  des  Goncourt  dans  I'liistoire  litteraire  de  ce  siecle 
sera  peut-etre  meme  aussi  grande  que  celle  de  Flaubert,  et  ils  la 
devront  a  leur  souci  si  nouveau,  si  scandaleux,  en  une  litterature 
alors  encore  toute  rhetoricienne,  de  la  "non-imitation";  cela  a  re- 
volutionne  le  monde  de  I'ecriture.  Flaubert  devait  beaucoup  a 
Chateaubriand:  il  serait  difficile  de  nommer  le  maitre  des  Gon- 
court. lis  conquirent  pour  eux,  ensuite  pour  tous  les  talents,  le 
droit  a  la  personnalite  stricte,  le  droit  pour  un  ecrivain  de  s'avouer 
tel  quel,  et  rien  qu'ainsi,  sans  s'inquieter  des  modeles.  des  regies,  de 
tout  le  pedantisme  universitaire  et  cenaculaire,  le  droit  de  se  mettre 
face  a  face  avec  la  vie,  avec  la  sensation,  avec  le  reve,  avec  I'idee,  de 
creer  sa  phrase  —  et  meme,  dans  les  limites  du  genie  de  la  langue, 
sa  syntaxe."  —  Les  Goncourt. 

One  is  rather  glad  M.  Hello  is  dead.  Ghill  is  mentionable,  and 
the  introductory  note  on  Felix  Feneon  is  of  interest. 

Small  reviews  are  praised  in  the  notes  on  Dujardins  and  Alfred 
Vallette. 

"II  n'y  a  rien  de  plus  utile  que  ces  revues  speciaJes  dont  le 
public  elu  parmi  les  vrais  fideles  admet  les  discussions  minutieuses, 
les  admirations  franches.  —  on  Edouard  Dujardins. 

"II   arrive  dans   I'ordre  litteraire   qu'une  revue   fondee  avec 


I 


Thi    Little    Review  15 


quinze  louis  a  plus  d 'influence  sur  la  marche  des  idees  et  par  con- 
sequent, sur  la  marche  du  monde  (et  peut-etre  sur  la  rotation  des 
planetes)  que  les  orgueilleux  recueils  de  capitaux  academiques  et 
de  dissertations  commerciales."  —  on  Alfred  Vallctte. 

1905—8  PROMENADES  PHILOSOPHIQUES.  One  cannot 
brief  such  work  as  the  Promenades.  The  sole  result  is  a  series  of 
aphorisms,  excellent  perhaps  hut  without  cohesion,  a  dozen  or  so 
will  show  an  intelligence  but  convey  neither  style  nor  personality 
of  the  author: 

"Sans  doute  la  religion  n'est  pas  vraie,  mais  I'anti-religion 
n'est  pas  vraie  non  plus:  la  verite  resite  dans  un  etat  parfait  d'indif- 
f^rence." 

"Peu  importe  qu'on  me  sollicite  par  des  ecrits  ou  par  des  paroles; 
le  mal  ne  commence  qu'au  moment  ou  on  m'y  plie  par  la  force." 
Autre  Point  de  Vue.' 

"L'argent  est  le  signe  de  la  liberte.  Maudire  Targent,  c'est 
maudire  la  liberte,  c'est  maudire  la  vie  qui  est  nulle  si  elle  n'est 
libre."  —  U  Argent. 

''Quand  on  voudra  definir  la  philosophie  du  XlXeme  siecle,  on 
i'apercevra  qu'il  n'a  fait  que  de  la  theologie." 

"Apprendre  pour  apprendre  est  peut-etre  aussi  grossier  que 
manger  pour  manger." 

*'0'est  singulier  en  litterature,  quand  la  fomie  n'est  pas 
aouvelle,  le  fond  ne  Test  pas  non  plus." 

"Le  nu  de  Part  contemporain  est  un  nu  d'hydrotherapie." 

"L'art  doit  etre  a  la  mode  ou  creer  la  mode." 

"Les  pacifistes,  de  braves  gens  a  genoux,  pres  d'une  balance  et 
priant  le  ciel  qu'elle  s'incine,  non  pas  selon  les  lois  de  la  pesanteur, 
mais  selon  leurs  voeux." 

"La  propriete  est  necessaire,  mais  il  ne  Test  pas  qu'elle  reste 
toujous  dans  les  memes  mains." 

"II  y  a  une  simulation  de  Tintelligence  comme  il  y  a  une  simu- 
lation de  la  vertu." 


i6  Tht    Little    Review 


"Le  roman  historique.  II  y  a  aussi  la  peinture  historique,  I'ar- 
chitecture  historique,  et,  a  la  mi-careme,  le  costume  historique." 

"Etre  impersonnel  clest  etre  personnel  selon  un  mode  particu- 
lier:  Voyez  Flaubert.  On  dirait  en  jargon:  I'objectif  est  une  des 
formes  du  subjectif." 

"La  maternite,  c'est  beau,  tant  qu'on  n'y  fait  pas  attention, 
C'est  vulgaire  des  qu'on  admire." 

"L'excuse  du  christianisme,  qa  a  ete  son  impuissance  sur  la 
realite.    II  a  corrompu  I'esprit  bien  plus  que  la  vie." 

"Je  ne  garantis  pas  qu'aucune  de  ces  notes  ne  se  trouve  deja 
dans  un  de  mes  ecrits,  ou  qu'elle  ne  figurera  pas  dans  un  ecrit  futur. 
On  les  retrouvera  peut-etre  meme  dans  des  ecrits  qui  ne  seront  pas 
les  miens."  —  Des  Pas  sur  le  Sable. 

Those  interested  in  the  subject  will  take  LE  PROBLfiME  DU 
STYLE  1902,  entire;  the  general  position  may  perhaps  be  indicated 
very  vaguely  by  the  following  quotations, 

"Quant  a  la  peur  de  se  gater  le  style,  c'est  bon  pour  un  Bembo, 
qui  use  d'une  langue  factice.  Le  style  peut  se  fatiguer  comme 
I'homme  meme;  il  vieillira  de  meme  que  1 'intelligence  et  la  sensibilite 
dont  il  est  le  signe;  mais  pas  plus  que  I'individu,  il  ne  changera  de 
personalite,  a  moins  d'un  cataclysme  psychologique.  Le  regime  ali- 
mentaire,  le  sejour  a  la  campagne  ou  a  Paris,  les  occupations  sen- 
timentales  et  leurs  suites,  les  maladies  ont  bien  plus  d'influence  sur 
un  style  vrai  que  les  mauvaises  lectures.  Le  style  est  un  produit 
physiologique,  et  I'un  des  plus  constants;  quoique  dans  la  dependance 
des  diverses  fonctions  vitales." 

"Les  Etats-Unis  tomberaient  en  langueur,  sans  les  voyages  en 
Europe  de  leur  aristocratic,  ans  la  diversite  extreme  des  climats,  des 
sols  et  par  consequent  des  races  en  evolution  dans  ce  vaste  empire. 
Les  echanges  entre  peuples  sont  aussi  necessaires  a  la  revigoration 
de  chaque  peuple  que  le  commerce  social  a  I'exaltation  de  I'energie 
individuelle.  On  n'a  pas  pris  grade  a  cette  necessite  quand  on  parle 
avec  regret  de  I'influence  des  litteratures  etrangeres  sur  notre  lit- 
terature." 


T  he    Little    Review  17 

"Aujourd'hui  I'infiluence  d'Eurypide  pourrait  encore  deter''- 
miner  en  un  esprit  original  d'interessantes  oeuvres;  I'imitateur  de 
Racine  depasserait  a  peine  le  comique  involontaire.  L 'etude  de 
Racine  ne  deviendra  profitable  que  dans  plusieurs  siecles  et  seule- 
ment  a  condition  que,  completement  oublie,  il  semble  entierement 
nouveau,  entierement  etranger,  tel  que  le  sont  devenus  pour  le  pub- 
lic d'aujourd'  hui  Adenes  li  Rois  ou  Jean  de  Meung.  Euripide  etait 
nouveau  au  XVIIeme  sieole.  Theocrite  I'etait  alors  que  Chenier  le 
transposait.  'Quand  je  fais  des  vers,  insinuait  Racine,  je  songe  tou- 
jours  a  dire  ce  qui  ne  s'est  point  encore  dit  dans  notre  langue.' 
Andre  Chenier  a  voulu  exprimer  cela  aussi  dans  une  phrase  mala- 
droite;  et  s'il  ne  I'a  dit  il  I'a  fait.  Horace  a  bafoue  les  serviles  imi- 
tateurs/,  il  n'imitait  pas  les  Grecs,  il  les  etudiait." 

"  'Le  style  est  I'homme  meme'  est  un  propos  de  naturaliste, 
qui  sait  que  le  chant  des  oiseaux  est  determine  par  la  forme  de  leur 
bee,  I'attache  de  leur  langue,  le  diametre  de  leur  gorge,  la  capacite 
de  leurs  poumons." 

"Le  style,  c'est  de  sentir,  de  voir,  de  penser,  et  rien  plus." 

"Le  style  est  une  specialisation  de  la  sensibilite." 

"Une  idee  n'est  qu'une  sensation  defraichie,  une  image  effacee." 

"La  vie  est  un  depouillement.  Le  but  de  I'activite  propre  d'lm 
homme  est  de  nettoyer  sa  personnalite,  de  la  laver  de  toutes  les 
souillures  qu'y  deposa  I'education,  de  la  degager  de  toutes  les  em- 
preintes  qu'y  laisserent  nos  admirations  adolescentes." 

"Depuis  un  siecle  et  demi,  les  connaissances  scientifiques  ont 
augmente  enormement;  I'esprit  scientifique  a  retrogarde;  il  n'y  a 
plus  de  contact  immediat  entre  ceux  qui  creent  la  science,  et  (je 
cite  pour  la  seconde  fois  la  reflexion  capitale  de  Buffon) :  'On  n'ac- 
quiert  aucune  connaissance  transmissible  qu'en  voyant  par  soi-meme: 
Les  ouvrages  de  seconde  main  amusent  1 'intelligence  et  ne  stimulent 
pas  son  activite.'  " 

"Rien  ne  pousse  a  la  concision  comtne  I'abondance  des  idees". — 
Le  Probletne  du  Style,  1902, 

jChristianity  lends  itself  to  fantaticism.    Barbarian  ethics  pro- 


i&  The    Little    Review 

ceed  by  general  taboos.  The  relation  of  two  individuals  in  relation 
is  so  complex  that  no  third  person  can  pass  judgment  upon  it.  Civ- 
ilization is  individual.  The  truth  is  the  individual.  The  light  of 
the  Renaissance  shines  in  Varchi  when  he  declines  to  pass  judgment 
on  Lorenzaccio. 

One  might  make  an  index  of,  but  one  cannot  write  an  essay 
upon,  the  dozen  volumes  of  De  Gourmont's  collected  discussions. 
There  was  weariness  towards  the  end  of  his  life.  It  shows  in  even 
the  leisurely  charm  of  "Lettres  a  I'Amazone".  There  was  a  final 
flash  in  his  drawing  of  M.  Croquant. 

The  list  of  his  chief  works  published  by  the  Mercure  de  France, 
26  rue  de  Conde,  Paris,  is  as  follows: 

Sixtine. 

Le  Pelerin  du  Silence. 

Les  Cheveaux  de  Diomede. 

D'un  Pays  Lointain. 

Le  songe  d'une  Femme. 

Lilith  suivi  de  Theodat.    . 

line  Nuit  au  Luxembourg. 

Un  Coeur  Virginal. 

Couleurs,  suivi  de  Choses  Anciennes. 

Histoires  Magiques. 

Lettres  d'un  Satyre. 

Le  Chat  de  Misere. 

Simone. 

Critique 

Le  Latin  Mystique. 

Le  Livre  des  Masques  (ler  et  Heme) 

La  Culture  des  Idees. 

Le  Chemin  de  Velours. 

Le  Probleme  du  Style. 

Physique  de  1 'Amour. 

Epilogues.  , 

Esthetique  de  la  Langue  Frangaise. 

Promenades  Litteraires. 

Promenades  Philosophiques.  j 


The    Little    Review  19 

Dialogue  des  Amateurs  sur  les  Choses  du  Temps. 
Nouveaux  Dialogues  des  Amateurs  sur  les  Choses  du  Temps 
Dante,  Beautrice  et  la  Poesie  Amoureuse. 
Pendant  I'Orage. 

M.  DE  GOURMONT  AND  THE  PROBLEM 
OF  BEAUTY 

Frederic   Manning 

STYLE  IS  a  subject  of  peculiar  interest  in  connection  with  M. 
de  Gourmont;  not  only  because  he  has  dealt^  with  it  from  a  va- 
riety of  aspects,  and  always  in  a  fertile  and  suggestive  way;  but  also 
because  he  is  himself  a  master  of  style,  and  of  a  style  singularly  per- 
sonal and  characteristic,  singularly  distinct  from  that  of  his  contem- 
poraries, and  even  from  what  we  imagine  to  be  the  secular  genius 
oi  French  prose.  It  is  a  style  that  is  fluid  rather  than  fine,  perva- 
sive rather  than  penetrating,  and  richer  in  the  qualities  of  atmos- 
phere, that  is  to  say  of  landscape-painting,  than  in  those  of  outline 
and  hard  form.  If,  as  M.  de  Gourmont  holds,  the  aesthetic  sense 
arises  from  the  interaction  of  sensibility  and  intellect,  then  in  his 
own  prose  perhaps  the  element  of  sensibility  preponderates.  It  is 
a  feminine  prose:  we  have  only  to  compare  it  to  the  male  and 
splendidly  objective  writing  of  Merimee  to  discern  the  fact  at  once. 
Of  course,  it  is  impossible  to  separate  entirely  the  form  from  the 
context,  a  refinement  of  thought  leads  -to  a  corresponding  refine- 
ment of  style;  but,  while  an  image  or  idea  exists  in  the  mind  as  a 
complete  whole,  of  which  the  characteristics  and  qualities  may  be 
seized  upon  instantaneously,  these  characteristics  and  qualities  can 
only  be  presented  in  language  successively.  The  work  of  the  artist 
is  thus  an  analysis  between  two  s)nitheses  and  it  is  during  this  pro- 
cess when  the  idea  is  being  decomposed,  and  descends  as  it  were 
through  the  senses,  that  it  comes  under  the  influences  of  tliose 
imponderabilia  which  give  it  the  qualities  of  style.  Style,  in  short, 
is  character,  and  it  is  proportionately  to  the  rapidity  and  ease  with 
which  the  idea  traverses  and  burns  up  the  material  through  which  it 
is  expressed  that  a  style  approaches  perfection.    It  may  be  grave  and 


ao  The    Little    Review 


weighty,  involved  and  ornate,  simple,  fugitive,  delicate:  the  rapidity 
and  ease  are  in  relation  to  the  mass  and  complexity  of  the  materiEK 
which  the  idea  informs.  The  processes  of  thought  must  be  corres- 
pondingly rapid.  In  the  interval  between  the  conception  of  the  idea 
or  image  and  its  birth  in  language,  it  is  subject  to  many  vicissitudes. 
Traditions,  preoccupations,  habits,  preudices,  the  pressure  of  im- 
mediate circumstances,  all  go  to  shape  or  distort  it.  In  proportion 
to  the  rapidity  of  its  escape  from  these  imponderable  influences  the 
idea  is  presented  to  us  whole,  and  the  right  value  is  given  to  each 
of  its  qualities.  Rapidity  may  tell  against  ease:  the  violence  of  pas- 
sion forces  a  new  construction  on  language,  lends  it  an  irresistible 
emphasis,  gives  it  for  a  moment  an  actually  mimetic  power  until 
speech  seems  to  verge  upon  gesture;  but  even  under  these  condi- 
tions, where  an  explosive  violence  taks  the  place  of  ease,  style  main- 
tains itself  as  the  impress  of  character. 

When  we  describe  M.  de  Gourmont's  style  as  feminine,  we  im- 
ply that  it  is  passive.  It  is  not  passionate,  it  is  not  mimetic,  it  does 
not  approach  to  the  conditions  of  action.  It  is  smooth,  clear,  limpid 
like  an  unruffled  sheet  of  water,  in  some  formal  garden,  reflecting  the 
sky,  clouds,  trees,  a  marble  mythology,  and  the  yellow  bricks  of 
some  decorous  chateau  with  the  late  sunlight  falling  on  it  in  the 
background.  Now  and  again  its  polished  surface  reflects  the  figures 
of  men  and  women,  men  leisurely  and  indifferent,  women  in  clear 
colours:  they  come  and  go  rather  indolently,  and  the  mirror  keeps 
its  serene  and  equal  calm.  Under  the  shadowy  reflections  we  can 
even  fathom  its  cool  green  depths.  It  is  feminine  because  it  is 
so  completely  reflective.  We  feel  that  each  of  these  vague  and  frail 
personifications  has  studied  the  'idealist'  philosophers  from  Berke- 
ley to  Nietzsche;  and  that  their  action  is  simply  the  appreciation  of 
those  theories  to  reality.  The  peril  of  sin  and  the  luxury  of  repent- 
ance are  alike  denied  to  those  who  are  beyond  good  and  evil.  There 
are  no  divine  and  irrational  elements  in  their  lives.  M.  de  Gour- 
mont,  it  goes  without  saying,  is  also  an  idealist,  but  after  a  manner 
of  his  own.  We  do  not  remember  that  he  mentions  Protagoras,  a 
philosopher  who  had  sufficient  wit  to  leave  no  system  behind  him, 
but  only  some  arresting  fragments.  One  saying  of  Protagoras,  How- 
ever, that  man  is  the  measure  of  all  things,  is  perhaps  the  root  of 
M.  de  Gourmont's  idealism;  and  another,  that  we  cannot  know 
whether  the  gods  exist  or  not,  supplies  the  irreligion.  What  is  so 
curious  in  a  disciple  of  Schopenhauer  and  of  Nietzsche  (who  merely 


Thg    Little    Review  21 


inverted  Schopenhauer)  is  that  M.  de  Gourmont  practically  ignores 
the  will  to  live.     It  only  subsists  in  an  extremely  attenuated  mode 
in  his  thought,  which  is  concerned  mainly  with  the  world  as  represen- 
tation.   This  is  surely  a  feminine  trait.    jWiherever  man  has  invented 
a   theory  of  fatalism,   and   idealism   is  one,   he  has  been  driven 
to  provide  a  counterpoise  to  it.     Buddhism,  which  so  strongly  af- 
fected Schopenhauer,  assumes  a  p>ower  of  denying  life,  and  of  ultimate 
release  from  the  tyranny  of  the  senses;  Christian  theology,  for  which 
M.  de  Gourmont  has  perhaps  too  facile  and  instinctive  a  contempt, 
opposes  to  predestinaion  the  doctrine  of  free-will;  and  to  Nietzsche, 
Schopenhauer's  dithyrambic  disciple,  will  is  the  sole  thing  necessary. 
But  M.  de  Gourmont  treats  of  it  by  implication,  and  as  an  example 
we  may  take  his  note  on  aesthetic:  "L'idee  de  beaute  a  une  origine 
emotionelle,  elle  se  ramene  a  l'idee  de  procreation  ...    La  beaute 
est  si  bien  sexuelle  que  les  seules  oeuvres  d'art  incontestees  sont 
celles  qui  montrent  tout  bonnement  le  corps  humain  dans  sa  nudite. 
Par  sa  perseverance  a  demeurer  purement  sexuelle,   la  statuaire 
grecque  s'est  mise  pour  I'eternite  au-dessus  de  toutes  les  discussions". 
There  is  something  unexpectedly  naive  and  charming  in  the 
statement,  coming  from  one  who  denies  an  absolute  beauty,  as  he 
denies  an  absolute  truth.     Au-dessus  de  toutes  les  discussions:   it 
has  almost  the  force  of  a  dogma.    One  tries  to  imagine  M.  de  Gour- 
mont explaining  to  an  intelligent  Chinese  that  the  beauty  of,  say, 
the  Victory  in  the  Louvre,  "est  purement  sexuelle".    iWith  the  excep- 
tion of  Aphrodite,  Greek  sculptures  of  women  and  goddesses  are  in- 
variably veiled,  and  one  of  the  chief  excellences  of  Greek  artists  . 
consists  precisely  in  their  treatment  of  windy  and  flowing  peploi. 
It  is  the  male  form  which  the  Greeks  represented  usually,  in  its 
nakedness;  but  we  can  see  no  reason  why  its  beauty  should  be  con- 
sidered as  bound  up  with  the  notion  of  procreation.    The  preoccupa- 
tion with  sex  is  less,  probably,  in  men  than  in  women;  and  even 
though  the  instinct  in  the  male  be  fiercer  and  more  imperious,  it  is 
a  momentary,  even  a  casual  instinct,  which  concerns  itself  little 
with   the  future.     Etymologically  the   Greek  word   Texrje  and  the 
German  Kunst,  both  of  which  carry  with  them  a  sense  of  "begetting", 
seem  to  support  M.  de  Gourmont;  and  so,  too,  might  the  root  "ar"; 
but  et3miology  is  a  reed.      If  we  return  to  the  most  primitive  forms 
of  human  culture,  we  do  not  find  that  the  idea  of  beauty  is  insepar- 
ably bound  up  with  the  idea  of  procreation.    The  Arunta,  a  tribe  of 


33  The    Little    Review 


Australian  blacks,  have  a  rudimentary  notion  of  aesthetics,  since  they  u 
perform  certain  sacred  dances,  a  fact  implying  a  sense  of  riiythm;  i 
but  with  this  tribe  the  idea  of  sex  is  entirely  separated  from  the  |i 
idea  of  reproduction:  they  are  unable  to  connect  the  cause  and  ef-  | 
feet,  but  to  them  every  birth  is  the  result  of  some  spiritual  or  de-  I- 
monic  agency.    It  is  obviously  an  erroneous  notion;  but  the  Arunta  I 
are  also  idealists,  after  their  own  manner.    To  a  savage  tribe  exist- 
ing under  precarious  conditions  the  fertility  of  the  earth  is  of  more 
pressing  importance  than  the  reproduction  of  their  own  kind;  and, 
except  for  religious  restrictions  and  taboos,  sex  involves  no  prob- 
lems for  them,  it  is  a  simple,  a  casual,  almost  a  fortuitous  matter. 
Complex  and  elaborate  civilisations  create  artificial  conditions,  in 
which  sex  is  thwarted,  or  over-developed,  owing  to  social,  economic 
or  hygienic  conditions;  and  from  these  conditions,  a  derangement 
of  the  nervous  system,  an  acute  sensibility  to  colours,  to  odours,  to 
every  form  of  sensation,  may  arise.    It  is  a  form  of  decadence.    To 
a  certain  extent  M.  de  Gourmont  admits  a  norm  of  beauty:  .  "II  faut 
que  la  femelle  qui  sera  la  mere  soit  conforme  au  type  de  la  race, 
c'est  a  dire  il  faut  qu'elle  soit  belle";  and  he  quotes  Pere  Buffier, 
who  would  find  beauty,  that  is  conformity  to  the- racial  type,  in  a 
composite  photograph,  with  approval;   but  if  such  a  norm  exist, 
then  the  aberrations  of  a  decadent  sensibility  are  irrelevant.    We  do 
not  deny  a  sexual  element  in  the  aesthetic  idea.    We  deny  only  that 
sex  is  the  unique  source  from  which  our  aesthetic  sense  derives  its 
being;    and  we  consider  it  unsound,  physiologically,  to   isolate  a 
particular  group  of  nerve  centres  from  the  rest  of  the  motor-sensory 
system,  and  to  claim  for  this  group  powers  and  functions  which  it 
does  not  and  cannot  exercise  independenly  of  the  whole  system. 
M.  de  Gourmont  has  some  doubt  himself,  and  later  in  the  same  es- 
say he  enlarges  the  question.     "Deux  sortes  d'emotions  concourent 
a  la  formation  du  sens  esthetique;  les  emotions  genesique  et  toutes 
les  aufres  emotions". 

We  approached  the  question  of  sexual  influence  upon  the 
aesthetic  idea  in  its  relation  to  the  will  to  live,  and  reproduction 
is  only  one  of  the  many  forms  of  expression  in  which  the  will  mani- 
fests itself.  Man,  besides  being  a  lover,  is  a  hunter  and  a  warrior; 
he  is  a  creature  of  action,  avid  of  experience.  Physiologically,  man 
is  characterised  by  the  power  of  motion,  and  the  ability  to  walk 
erect;  and  thus  his  fore-limbs  have  been  freed  from  pedestrian  uses, 


The    Little    Review  23 

and  his  hands  have  found  delightful  things  to  do.  It  is  through 
the  hand  that  the  sense  of  touch  is  most  commonly  conveyed,  and 
touch  itself  is  a  sure  and  delicate  sense.  We  have  recognised  this 
by  the  significance  which  we  have  given  to  the  word  "tact"  and  iby 
such  phrases  as  "a  light  touch"  or  "firm  handling".  To  the  blind, 
though  it  cannot  apprehend  colour,  it  reveals  all  the  subtleties  of 
form;  and  the  amateur  handling  some  carven  piece  of  jade,  or  ivory, 
or  coral,  a  porcelain  jar  or  an  antique  gem,  experiences  a  new  pleas- 
ure which  is  unknown  to  sight.  In  the  hands  is  our  sense  of  pos- 
session; and  old  sagas  speak  of  any  heroic  fighter  33  "a  tall  man 
of  his  hands".  They  have  their  own  language,  an  eloquence  of 
gesture;  they  can  be  filled  with  cherishing  caresses  and  grip  mightily 
in  murder.  So  curiously  personal  and  intimate  they  are,  that  some 
pretend  to  read  a  man's  life  in  his  palms,  and  finger  prints  furnish 
us  with  a  scientific  means  of  identification.  Every  religion  has  in- 
vested them  with  supernatural  powers,  and  through  them  are  trans- 
mitted the  gifts  of  the  spirit,  and  by  them  the  sick  are  healed. 
The  hands  of  man  have  taught  many  things  to  his  mind.  Poetry, 
alone  in  fine  art,  is  not  their  work;  but  with  that  exception  every 
form  of  art  has  come  from  the  hands  of  man.  Our  actual  vision  of 
a  painting  is  of  colours  upon  a  plane  surface ;  but  by  unconsciously 
referring  this  particular  sense-impresslion  to  past  experience  of 
touch,  we  infer  qualities  of  foim  and  texture  in  the  representation. 
There  is  no  need  to  multiply  examples.  Whatever  comes  from  the 
hands  of  man  is  to  be  judged,  technically,  by  reference  to  his  hands. 
Will  is  manifested  in  action,  through  which  it  seeks  to  permeate 
and  inform  the  material  of  nature;  and  one  of  the  earliest  expres- 
sions of  will  in  this  connection,  is  the  practice,  among  primitive  peo- 
ples, of  magical  rites  and  ceremonies.  Magic  is  mainly  sympathetic, 
and  seeks  to  produce  its  effects  by  imitation.  Tragedy  can  be  traced 
back  to  its  origin,  in  the  sacred  dances  of  savage  and  primitive  tribes; 
and  the  term  tragedy  covers  the  elements  of  which  it  was  composed, 
not  only  dramatic  and  lyric  poetry,  but  the  orchestic  attitudes  and 
gestures  of  the  mimes,  and  naturally  music.  From  the  same  origin 
are  derived  the  Odes  of  Pindar,  definitely  religious  in  character,  and 
closer  to  their  source  since  they  celebrate  victories  in  games,  which 
were  originally  sacred  observances  to  ensure  fertility,  not  only  in 
the  soil,  but  in  the  cattle  and  the  people.  So  far  we  may  agree  with 
M.  de  Gourmont  that  beauty  is  bound  up  with  the  idea  of  reproduc- 


24  The    Little    Review 


tion;  for  it  is  the  beauty  and  nobility  of  race,  "the  genius  of  alter- 
nate generations",  which  Pindar  celebrates,  and  the  games  originally 
took  place  at  the  tomb  of  some  eponymous  hero.  Every  great  na- 
tional epic,  the  Epic  of  Gilgamesh,  the  Iliad,  Genesis,  in  spite  of  its 
unwieldly  form,  even  the  ^neid  which  is  late,  artificial  and  based 
on  archaeology,  is  definitely  religious.  The  ritual  Invarialbly  pre- 
cedes the  legend;  which  explains  it,  and  all  ritual  is  magic.  Sculp- 
ture, again,  originates  as  a  feature  of  magical  rites  and  ceremonies; 
we  have  only  to  consider  the  brand  that  was  Meleager,  to  understand 
the  process  by  which  it  was  evolved ;  and  we  may  remark  that  it  Is 
the  single  art  which  M.  de  Gourmont  relates  to  the  dance.  Our 
earliest  drawings,  the  rude  scratchings  on  bone  and  ivory  and  horn, 
such  as  those  discovered  in  the  cave-dwellings  of  the  drift-men  in 
France,  do  not  seem  to  have  any  religious  or  magical  significance; 
but  our  evidence  for  this  period  is  slight,  and  on  the  other  hand  we 
have  the  representations  of  totems,  the  flat,  carven  and  incised  tikis 
of  the  Maoris,  the  use  of  pigments  on  carving,  and  many  indications 
that  the  savage  and  primitive  mind  attributes  to  these  objects,  and 
even  to  their  implements  and  weapons,  an  almost  personal  character 
of  their  own.  In  any  case,  the  art  of  painting  was  profoundly  in- 
fluenced by  the  action  and  gesture  of  sacred  dances  and  ritual  games. 
The  will  has  two  objectives:  the  extension  as  in  the  notion  of 
immortality,  and  the  intensification  of  its  experience  and  action; 
the  will  to  live  and  the  will  to  power.  Magic  was  an  attempt  to 
attain  these  objectives.  The  egotism  of  the  individual  is  not  com- 
pensated for  its  extinction  in  death,  by  any  consideration  of  the  con- 
tinuous life  of  the  race;  but,  in  the  celebration  of  orgiastic  tribal 
rites,  man  gained  the  illusion  of  an  extended  personality  or  will,  and 
with  it  an  emotional  intensity  approaching  delirium.  Emotions 
capable  of  affecting  a  crowd  are  simple;  rage,  panic,  joy;  under  the 
influence  of  these  emotions  an  individual  identity  merges  in  the 
collective,  and  with  the  sense  of  identity  the  sense  of  responsibility 
vanishes,  and  the  individual  achieves  the  illusion  of  freedorn.  Ma- 
gic was,  at  least  in  the  opinion  of  those  who  practised  it,'\an  useful 
art  since  it  had  a  definite  object,  protection  or  malice,  or  fertility: 
it  expressed  the  will  and  sought  to  liberate  man  from  the  narrow 
limits  of  his  nature;  or,  when  it  developed  into  a  cult,  such  as  the 
worship  of  Dionysus,  it  extended  his  personality.  The  god  was 
Eleutherios;  the  deliverer.     Sex,  even  considered  as  an  element  in 


Tht    Little    Rtvitw  as 


orgiastic  rites,  or  as  an  object,  has  not  the  same  effect.  "L'amour 
ote,"  says  M.  de  Gourmont,  "il  n'y  a  plus  d'art;  et  I'art  ote  I'amour 
n'est  plus  guere  qu'un  besoin  physiologique".  We  should  substitute 
"magie"  for  "amour".  The  real  question  is,  however,  whether  the 
idea  of  beauty  originates  through  the  deflection  or  thwarting  of 
"un  besoin  physiologique"  as  distinct  from  "amour".  It  is  a  phy- 
siological necessity  that  an  amoeba  should  propagate  itself  by  simple 
division  from  the  parent  body,  and  reproduction  in  this  case  is  in- 
dependent of  both  "art"  and  "sex". 

But  magic,  curiously  enough,  is  also  "un  besoin  physiologique  '. 
In  a  note  on  "Le  Jugement  Esthetique"  M.  de  Gourmont  writes:  "La 
superiority  d'une  race,  d'un  group  d'etres  vivants,  est  en  raison  di- 
recte  de  sa  puissance  de  mensonge,  c'est  a  dire  de  reaction  contre 
la  realite.  Le  mensonge  n'est  que  la  forme  psychologique  de  la 
reaction  du  Vertebra  contre  le  milieu.  Nietzsche,  devancant  ^la 
science,  dit:  'Le  mensonge  comme  condition  de  vie'  ".  Then  "le 
mensonge",  the  great  illusion,  is  the  will,  action,  sex  itself,  beauty 
considered  as  sex  instinct  deflected  from  its  object,  art,  science, 
handicraft,  politics,  ethics,  which  are  all  derived  from  primitive  magic, 
from  the  first  conscious  "reaction  contre  la  realite"  of  vertebrate 
man,  walking  erect  and  laying  hands  upon  the  visible  and  tangible 
earth.  All  are  "mensonge".  And  reality?  Perhaps  a  minute  frag- 
ment of  protoplasm,  not  even  a  cell,  without  nucleus  or  nucleolus, 
a  mere  potentiahty  of  life,  that  is  to  say  of  "mensonge". 

To  us,  personally,  "Le  Chemin  de  Velours"  and  "Pomenades 
Philosophiques"  are  the  most  fascinating  of  M.  de  Gourmont's 
books.  They  reveal  his  erudition,  his  amused  curiosity,  his  slight 
irony,  and  that  intellectual  perversity  which,  for  example,  finds 
the  essential  features  of  Bacon's  philosophy  preserved  in  Joseph  de 
Maistre's  "Examen",  as  Juricu's  democratic  propositions  were  pre- 
served in  Bossuet's  famous  reply.  And  perhaps,  though  it  may  be 
a  purely  personal  preference.  "La  Femme  et  le  Langage"  is  the 
most  fascinating  of  all  his  critical  studies.  In  it  he  deals  with  the 
"mensonge"  as  the  expression  of  an  imaginary  sensation:  "il  s'agit 
de  psychologic  et  non  de  morale".  One  might  question  many  of 
M.  de  Gourmont's  affirmations,  and  thus  prove  the  stimulus  of  his 
thought,  that  essentially  feminine  thought,  unscrupulous,  contradict- 
ory, full  of  those  provocations  and  slight  perversities,  even  the  child- 
ish malice  that  a  woman  will  use  toward  men.    Just  as  Nietzsche, 


a6  Thi    Littlt    Review 

a  neurasthenic,  worshipped  the  idea  of  force  and  power,  so  M.  de 
Gourmont  with  a  passive  and  reflective  nature,  with  a  woman's  cri- 
tical faculty  and  instinct  for  detail,  her  unconscious  immorality, 
practises  the  cult  of  the  male. 

Beauty,  even  as  mensonge,  is  action:  it  is  born  of  the  mimesis 
of  magic  attempting  to  influence  the  blind  and  irrational  forces  of 
nature.  Even  in  sculpture  and  painting  beauty  is  still  movement, 
not  arrested,  not  incomplete;  but  limited  to  a  swift  instant  of  time, 
and  within  that  limit  single  and  continuous.  One  might  almost  say 
that  all  beauty  is  composed  of  liie  hypnotic  rhythm  of  music,  and 
the  gesture  of  the  dance.  This  conception  of  beauty  as  a  function, 
moreover,  frees  us  from  the  artificial  distinction  between  form  and 
content.  Liberated  from  the  conditions  of  tribal  uses  and  motives 
it  retained  their  magic  and  entrancement,  extending  and  intensify- 
ing the  action  and  experience  of  the  will;  amd  it  comes  to  us  re- 
created always,  as  a  flower  from  dews,  a  thing  of  magical  evocation 
—  mensonge. 


Foot-note.  I  need  scarcely  say  that  I  disagree  with  Mr.  Manning's 
point  of  view,  The  article  seems  to  me  a  typical  expression  of  one 
holding  ideas  and  affected  by  ideas  in  exactly  the  manner  De  Gour- 
ment  never  held,  and  never  was  by  them  affected. 

The  doctrine  that  the  hand  predisposes  the  mind  to  certain  apti- 
tudes is  combatted,  I  think  convincingly,  by  Gourmont  in  "Physiolo- 
gic de  I'Amour."  I  trust  however  that  the  inclusion  of  this  arti- 
cle will  save  us  from  such  utterly  trivial  comment  as  "En  somme,  on 
le  loue!" 

On  writing  to  Mr.  Manning  that  one  of  his  phrases  was  likely 
to  be  misunderstood  by  a  public  to  which  the  term  decadent  (dee-kay- 
d'nt)  conveys  the  impression  of  young  man  doped  with  opium  in  the 
act  of  dyeing  his  finger  nails  with  green  ink,  I  received  the  following 
note  which  I  shall  leave  as  conclusion.  —  E.  P. 

"Of  course  there  is  a  great  deal  of  truth  in  Gourmont's  notion. 
Beauty  would  always  excite  the  sexual  instinct.  His  fault  is  that  he 
juggles  with  physiological,  psychological  and  metaphysical  terms. 
I  have  looked  at  the  notion  of  beauty  histo.ically:  and  thus  find 
its  origin  in  magic  —  that  is  in  so  far  as  we  are  concerned  with 
the  beauty  of  art.  Magic  might  originate  from  dreams,  as  when  the 
sons  of  God  saw  the  daughters  of  men  that  they  were  fair:  and  the 


T he    Little    Review  ly 

great  majority  of  dreams  are  erotic  in  tendency.  But  art  has  separ- 
ated itself  from  its  parent,  and  intellectualized  itself;  as  religion  and 
nietaphysic  did  in  different  directions  also. 

Damn  the  American,  or  any  other,  public  anyway. 
Yours,  etc., 

F.  M.'" 

"LE  LATIN  MYSTIQUE" 
T.   T.   Clayton 

LE  LATIN  MYSTIQUE  is  the  language  of  symbol  and  allusion 
wherein  the  Church  both  hides  and  reveals  certain  aspects  of  her 
dogmas,  which  under  the  influence  of  religious  meditation  have 
brought  forth  the  substance  of  Catholic  Mysticism. 

Remy  de  Gourmont  considered  the  latin  as  it  took  shape  in  An- 
tiphon,  Lectio,  Hymn,  Prayer  and  Litany  from  his  point  of  view  as 
artist  and  discovered  in  these  liturgical  forms  certain  qualities  of  ex- 
pression only  possible  in  a  language  free  to  follow  the  ways  the  in- 
spiration of  its  soul  suggested  to  it. 

His  book  "Le  Latin  Mystique"  is  full  of  examples  of  the  art 
enshrined  in  the  service  books  of  the  Catholic  Church.  Let  the 
reader  judge  for  himself  of  their  beauty.  Here  is  the  Oratio  for  Saint 
Catherine:— 

"Deus,  qui  dediste  legem  Moysi  in  summitate  montis  Sinai,  et 
in  eodem  loco  per  sanctos  Angelos  tuos  corpus  beatae  Catherinae  vir- 
ginis  et  martyris  tuae  mirabiliter  collocasti,  praesta  quaesumus;  ut 
ejus  meritis  et  intercessione,  ad  montem,  qui  Christus  est  pervenire 
valeamus," 

To  which  perhaps  we  may  be  allowed  to  add  a  Buen  Viaje  in 
place  of  the  Amen.  This  collect  (Oratio)  is  among  the  shortest  of 
prayers  and  yet  in  its  brevity  there  is  nothing  wanting  to  the  cause 
and  effect  of  a  perfect  symbolism. 

From  the  hymns  let  us  cite  first  of  all  two  strophes  from  one 
by  Saint  Ambrose  to  be  sung  at  cock-crow,  and  now  forming  papt 
of  the  office  of  the  Winter  Lauds  on  Sunday. 

Jesu   labentes   respice, 
Et  nos  videndo  corrige; 


aS  The    Little    Review 


Si  respicis,  lapsi  stabunt, 
Fletuque  culpa  solvitur, 

Tu  lux  refulge  sensibus 
Mentisque  somnum  discute, 
Te  nostra  vox  primum  sonet 
Et  vota  solvamus  tibi. 

"Et  nos  videndo  corrige",  as  though  to  say  "Correct  us  with  a 
look",  an  exquisite  reminder  of  "The  Lord  turned  and  looked  upon 
Peter".     Speaking  of  Saint  Ambrose,  Remy  de  Gourmont  says: 

"Ses  odes  sont  demeurees  parmi  les  plus  exquises  fleurs  de 
symbolique  jardin  de  la  liturgie." 

The  Epiphany  Hymn  as  it  was  written  by  Sedulius  opens  with 
a  verse  which  in  its  last  two  lines  reminds  the  kings  of  the  earth 
that  as  far  as  Heaven  is  concerned  they  may  keep  their  baubles 
in  peace. 

Hostis  Herodis  impie, 
Christum  venire  quid  times? 
Non  eripit  mortalia 
Qui  regna  dat  coelestia. 

Sometimes  deep  and  curious  problems  found  their  way  into  the 
Hymns,  as  in  the  following  stanza  taken  from  the  Pange  lingua 
gloriosi  of  Venantius  Fortunatus,  where  the  question  of  Satan  be- 
ing able  to  cast  out  Satan  seems  to  be  answered  in  the  affirmative. 

Hos  opus  nostrae  salutis 
Ordo  depoposcerat 
Multiformis  proditoris 
Ars  ut  artem  falleret, 
Et  medelam  ferret  inde 
Hostis  unde  laeserat. 

Writing  of  the  Pange  Lingua,  Remy  de  Gourmont  considers  it 
"un  chef-d'oevre  de  poesie  theologique": 

»  The  following  verse  in  Litanic  form  and  sung  in  festo  omnium 
Sanctorum  figures  the  translation  of  the  hermits  from  the  burning 
sands  to  the  cool  spaces  of  the  stars  and  asks  that  we  too  may  have 
seats  amongst  the  heavenly. 


The    Little    Review  29 


Chorea  casta  virginum 
Et  quos  eremus  incolas 
Transmisit  astris,  coelitum 
Locate  nos  in  sedibus. 

It  should  be  added  that  we  owe  this  stanza  in  place  of  one 
less  old  and  less  beautiful  to  the  Revisers  of  the  sixteenth  century 
who  had  too'little  respect  for  the  principles  of  Medieval  Hymnody: 
perhaps  also  too  little  understanding. 

The  Author  of  "Le  Latin  Mystique"  was  not  too  pleased  with 
the  corrections  of  the  Reformers:  "II  ne  faut  pas  s'attendre  a  trou- 
ver  dans  les  missels  actuellement  liturgiques  les  textes  authentiques 
des  hymneSj  des  proses,  des  antiphones  dues  aux  poetes  latins 
mystiques  du  moyenage;  ils  ont  ete  a  differentes  reprises  mutiles." 

Nevertheless,  even  in  its  modern  form  the  Roman  Breviary 
was  to  Remy  de  Gourmont  a  favorite  book.  "Encore  qu'en  son  en- 
semble il  demeure  I'un  des  plus  enviables  livres  de  lecture  et  de 
relecture  qui  soient  au  monde."  With  these  small  four  volumes 
(each  one  answering  to  a  season  of  the  year)  the  reader  will  come 
to  know  how  well  the  mystical  life  of  the  Church  keeps  its  con- 
tinuity in  word  as  well  as  in  spirit. 

Creation  was  the  work  of  a  God  whose  being  abode  in  con- 
cealment. The  Incarnation  was  the  revelation  of  a  God  who  hid 
himself  in  the  flesh.  The  union  of  revelation  and  concealment  has 
been  the  art  of  the  "Latin  Mystique". 


DE    GOURMONT  —  YANK 

by  John  Rodker 

ASSUMING  Foe  American  —  rashly  I  admit  —  De  Gourmont 
through  most  of  his  work  shows  himself  so  much  the  child  of 
Poe  as  to  bring  with  him  that  veritably  American  savour  which 
Laforgue  detected  in  Baudelaire  when  he  called  him  "Chat — Hindou 
—  Yank."  Resemblance  not  necessarily  derived  from  Baudelaire's 
translation  of  the  "Tales  of  Mystery  and  Imagination."  That 
was  an  "atmospheric  analogy",  but  the  relation  between  De  Gour- 
mont and  Poe  is  one  undoubtedly  of  direct  influence  —  hatchment 


30  The    Little    Review 


with  no  bar  sinister.  A  specimen  paragraph  from  the  "Histoires 
Magiques": 

"Edith,  Elphega,  he  married  Edilih  the  elder  and  she  whom  I 
saw  pale  and  blonde,  was  paler  at  the  imminent  sacrifice  than  the 
offering  herself  —  Choephope  more  anguished  than  the  offering, 
acolyte  more  tremulous  than  the  victim.  She  whom  I  saw  and 
whose  profile  recalled  the  immature  concupiscences  of  infantile 
Rovers  was  Elphega,  indubitably  Elphega,  the  pale  the  blonde 
Elphega." 

Is  not  this  the  exact  tone  of  Morella,  Berenice,  I^igeia,  word  for 
word,  cadence  for  cadence.  It  is  true  the  women  of  De  Gourmont 
are  not  such  prodigies  of  learning  as  are  the  phantasms  of  Poe,  nor 
have  they  an  equal  concentration  of  ideal  forms  of  passion,  but 
their  zest  for  life  (experience)  is  equally  intense,  their  sophistication 
of  equal  value  with  Ligeitas,  because  complementary.  They  are 
worldly,  physical  more  and  yet  less  than  Poe's  women.  Morella  and 
Berenice  belong  to  a  period  when  vapours  were  the  correct  thing, 
Cyrane  belongs  to  a  modern  Paris  with  apotheosis  of  vitality,  Poe's 
preoccupation  witii  dissolution  and  the  grave  has  to  our  minds  dis- 
tinctly its  absurd  side,  but  this  is  due  to  a  change  in  poetic  subject 
matter  —  amenable  to  periods  as  all  else  —  witness  the  Elizabethans. 
De  Gourmont  never  does  this.  Death  for  him  is  part  of  life  —  a 
continuation  - —  to  Poe  it  was  an  end,  an  end  so  staible,  so  metallic 
and  fianl  that  it  could  not  be  said  to  belong  to  a  world  in  flux. 

It  is  in  the  business  of  psychological  writing  they  most  differ. 
To  conceive  of  Poe  writing  "Le  Songe  d'une  Femme"  or  "Visages 
de  femmes"  is  impossible,  for  he  always  came  up  against  a  wall  with 
the  problem  of  a  physical  life  which  was  not  in  process  of  decompo- 
sition. He  appeared  to  have  no  knowledge  of  what  I  would  call 
normal  subconsciousness  —  the  motives  underneath  most  of  every 
day  life.  For  processes  of  aibnormal  subconsciousness  he  is  of 
course  without  peer.  De  Gourmont  hardly  ever  touches  this  re- 
gion. Those  who  have  read  "Pehor"  will  understand  what  I  mean, 
but  in  this  story  —  the  first  of  the  "Histoires  Magiques," — there  ap- 
pear to  be  all  the  physical  and  psychological  detail  so  unaccountably 
omitted  from  the  stories  of  Berenice  and  Morella.  Certainly  Pehor 
is  complementary  to  them. 

I  suspect  that  part  of  De  Gourmont's  "mission"  was  to  fill  in 
the  holes  left  by  Poe.     Certainly  they  illuminate  each  other,  are 


The    Little    Review  31 

commentary  and  exegesis,  and  one  cannot  be  said  to  know  either 
widiout  knowing  his  complement. 

De  Gourmont  has  been  said  to  be  most  different  from  Poe  in 
the  "Promenades  Litteraires"  and  the  Impressions.  I  do  not  think 
this  is  true.  Certainly  they  show  a  mind  capable  of  the  most  original 
research  in  science  and  philosophy  as  apart  from  purely  literary 
achievement.  If  you  like,  the  flight  is  more  sustained  but  never 
loftier;  for  throughout  the  seventeen  volumes  of  miscellaneous  writ- 
ings attributed  to  Poe  are  to  be  found  most  profound  observations  in 
the  psychology,  philosophy  and  science  of  his  time.  The  result  is  an 
impression  of  a  mind,  one  of  the  most  stupendous  known  to  us. 
How  well  read  'both  men  were  in  the  obscure  and  magical,  I  have 
only  the  glimmerings;  but  it  was  sufficiently  formidable,  and  if 
Poe  does  no  interpolate  Hebrew  into  his  writings  it  is  because  he 
wrote  as  a  journalist  and  not  like  De  Gourmont,  as  a  potential  mem- 
ber of  the  Academy. 

The  problem  of  an  aesthetic  exercised  each.  "Le  Pelerin  du 
Silence"  I  would  put  against  the  "Domain  of  Arnheim"  and  "The 
Thousand  and  Second  Night"  and  leave  the  reader  to  draw  com- 
parisons. Nor  has  De  Gourmont  ever  surpassed  the  description  of 
the  interior  of  the  young  man's  palace  in  "The  Assignation",  (the 
Rimbaud-like  purity  of  the  so-well-known  soliloquy,  "To  muse  for 
long  unwearied  hours") ;  and  how  much  more  remarkable  Poe's  pre- 
occupation seems  when  it  is  remembered  that  it  took  place  in  a 
barbarous  country,  —  one  to  which  Whitman  was  infinitely  more 
suited. 

De  Gourmont  worked  in  direct  sunlight  —  "collected  the  leaves 
and  flowers  with  the  branches  to  which  they  were  attached,"  while 
Poe  in  his- most  complete  works  has  a  livid  atrabilarious  moonlight, 
bright  enough  to  illustrate  any  text.  His  work  has  therefore  so 
much  more  intensity.  Extraordinary  likeness  too  between  them  in 
the  cloying  sweetness  of  the  Litanies;  surely  a  lapse  on  the  part  of 
an  author,  so  well  aware  of  weight  and  tone  in  his  prose,  so  critical 
as  to  prosody  in  others.  He  is  never  sentimental  elsewhere,  rather 
I  should  say  ferociously  matter  of  fact;  poems  like  "Annabel  Lee'  and 
"The  Raven"  suffer  from  the  same  faults  and  are  only  saved  from 
the  pit  of  minor  verse  —  if  not  of  doggeral  —  by  the  greatness  of  the 
man  who  wrote  them. 

"Helen  thy  fee^iuty  is  to  me"  has  the  same  queer  laspes! 


33  The    Little    Review 

Nevertheless  I  do  not  see  De  Gourmont  writing  "The  Narrative 
of  Arthur  Gordon  Pym,"  nor  Poe  writing  "Songe  d'une  femme",  or 
''Ohevaux  de  DiomMes." 

REMY  DE  GOURMONT,  AFTER  THE  INTERIM 

Richard    Aldington 

IT  IS  like  going  back  very  far  to  talk  of  Remy  de  Gourmont. 
Back  in  those  days  before  the  deluge,  what  was  it  he  meant  to 
us?  Why  was  the  name  "Remy  de  Gourmont"  so  potent,  so  sure 
of  our  respect? 

Remy  de  Gourmont,  I  think,  meant  to  us  the  type  of  the  artist — 
the  man  who  lives  purely  to  create  the  work  of  art  and  to  whom 
nothing  else  is  of  essential  importance.  He  says,  obviously  of  him- 
self, in  one  of  his  early  works:  "He  thinks  about  nothing  but  liter- 
ature and  cares  only  for  style".  He  wronged  himself,  yet  there  is 
just  this  much  truth  in  the  mot;  that  he  cared  for  art  passionately 
and  as  an  artist.  He  wanted  to  write  good  prose;  other  things 
seemed  not  particularly  to  matter. 

But  he  meant  something  more  than  artistry  and  disinterested 
devotion;  he  meant  very  much  more.  He  meant  freedom  and  the 
use  of  the  intelligence  in  the  bravest  freest  way.  He  meant  wit  and 
irony  and  profundity  of  thought,  true  learning  and  the  understand- 
ing of  human  nature;  he  meant,  to  use  his  own  words,  "the  tradition 
of  untrammelled  minds".  And  he  was  a  kind  of  pattern  to  us. 
What  Remy  had  endured  for  the  sake  of  freedom  of  speech,  to  keep 
clean  his  artist's  conscience,  we  could  endure;  having  his  approval 
we  felt  confident  in  the  future.  To  lose  him  by  death  was  to  lose 
one  of  the  few  among  our  elders  whose  approval  was  worth  having. 

His  work  I  divide  roughly  and  mentally  into  four  periods.  The 
obscure  beginnings,  the  period  of  erudition  and  "word-mosaics", 
the  period  of  Flaubertian  cynicism  (the  resolution  to  be  a  great  de- 
moraliser)  and  the  last  period  when  he  sought  what  the  Greek  meant 
by  the  word  "sophrosyne". 

The  first  period  does  not  really  concern  us  except  to  note  that 
de  Gourmont  learned  the  art  of  writing  slowly.  He  wanted  his  early 
books  forgotten.    It  is  not  for  us  to  rake  from  oblivion  such  works 


Th$    Littlt    Review  33 

as  "Chez  les  Lapons".  Somewhere  he  speaks  of  the  day  when  his 
dissatisfaction  with  his  own  work  and  with  the  work  of  the  time  re- 
ceived direction  from  his  reading  a  periodical  just  brought  out  by 
some  young  men  who  called  themselves  by  the  fantastic  title  of 
"les  S5mibolistes."  He  read  "A  Rebours"  ("fantoche  fameux"  he 
called  des  Esseints  in  later  years),  then  the  authors  praised  in  that 
work  and  more  of  the  young  contemporaries.  This  would  be  about 
the  middle  of  the  eighties. 

At  that  time  he  began  "Le  Latin  Mystique,"  which  took  him 
several  years  to  bring  to  completion.  Remy  relates,  not  without 
malice,  that  he  carried  his  manuscript  to  Huysmans  whose  remarks 
on  church  Latin  had  suggested  the  book.  He  found  Huysmans  "un 
fonctionnaire  parfait",  startled  to  find  that  anyone  had  actually 
read,  translated  and  criticised  these  poets  —  Huysmans  got  his  in- 
formation out  of  Bbert's  manual!  One  might  trace  a  certain  ironic 
bitterness  in  de  Gourmont  to  this  discovery  of  artistic  humbug  in 
a  man  he  had  hitherto  respected  and  championed.  The  two  never 
actually  quarrelled  but  when  Huysmans  became  a  Catholic  he  was 
spirited  away  from  Remy  by  pious  friends  who  feared  the  effects  of 
the  young  man's  brilliant  scepticism. 

About  this  time  too  he  produced  "Sixtine",  a  novel  of  the 
imagination — which  gave  him  the  entry  to  the  Mercure  de  France 
— and  played  with  words  delicately  and  skillfully,  giving  us  the 
"Litanies"  and  the  pieces  in  "Le  Pelerin  du  Silence." 

But  beautiful  and  curious  as  these  works  were  they  did  not  move 
a  Hugo-soaked  public.  All  the  notice  he  received  from  offkial 
sources  was  dismissal  from  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale  for  a  so-called 
unpatriotic  article  —  perhaps  the  greatest  service  the  state  could 
render  him  as  it  made  him  for  ever  an  "independent",  but  un- 
doubtedly the  reason  why  his  books  were  never  really  popular. 

Here  comes  in  the  third  period,  the  Flaubertian  maxim  being 
worked  at  first  with  enthusiasm,  then  gradually  abandoned.  We  get 
"Les  Chevauz  de  Diomede"  (exquisite  book  for  those  who  will  pon- 
der its  wisdom),  "Le  Songe  d'une  Femme",  the  beginnings  of  h's 
cynical  work,  largely  journalistic.  The  "Flaubertian  maxim"? 
Simply  that  the  man  of  intelligence  revenges  himself  upon  a  dull 
world  by  "corrupting"  it.  Flaubert  put  his  hatred  into  "Bouvard 
et  Pecuchet"  —  Gourmont  spread  his  over  several  works,  but  it  grows 
always  more  attenuated.  He  realised  that  there  was  more  in  litera- 
ture than  mere  disgust  however  brilliant.    During  this  period  he  pro- 


34  T  he    Li  t  tl  e    Review 


duced  the  "Livres  des  Masques",  the  first  of  the  Promenades  Lit- 
teraires,  the  Epilogues  and  began  a  series  of  scientific  studies  whose 
result  was  the  "Phys'que  de  I'Amour"  and  kindred  cynicisms. 

He  ceased  to  desire  the  perversion  of  the  world,  retaining  from 
his  earlier  disappointment  only  the  fine  salt  of  irony,  the  uncom- 
promising hatred  of  art  cant,  of  all  cant.  He  came  to  care  chiefly 
for  truth,  sought  always  to  express  precisely  what  things,  events, 
experience,  imaginations  meant  to  him.  And  so  we  get  the  books 
on  style  and  aesthetics  —  the  later  "Promenades  Litteraires",  the 
"Nuit  au  Luxembourg",  the  "Lettres  a  I'Amazon",  "Le  Chemin  de 
Velours,"  "L'Esthetique  de  la  Langue  Frangaise"  and  half  a  dozen 
more.  He  achieves  tranquillity  and  perfects  an  already  exquisite 
style. 

Then  the  war  came.  He  was  ill  and  saddened  by  this  bitter 
irruption  into  everything  he  held  dear.  He  tried  gallantly  to  "carry 
on",  writing  for  English  and  American  periodicals  as  well  as  for 
Parisian  newspapers.  Then  during  the  battle  of  Loos  he  died,  about 
the  same  time  that  Gaudier-Brzeska  was  killed.*  It  was  a  great 
misfortune  to  lose  two  such  friends  in  a  week. 

It  is  hard  to  think  of  him  as  gone;  he  seemed  so  much  more 
of  our  generation  than  many  contemporaries.  He  seemed  the  young 
man  and  they  the  past.  It  is  hard  to  pick  up  the  "Mercure"  and 
not  to  find  those  sentences,  pure  in  rhythm  and  form,  sharp  and 
clear  of  thought.  It  is  hard  to  know  that  when  a  new  thing  happens, 
a  new  thought,  a  new  book,  a  new  form  of  government,  we  lose  that 
unsuspected  aspect  De  Gourmont  always  revealed.  It  is  hard  to 
feel  we  have  lost  almost  the  last  of  the  true  critics. 

We  get  new  prose  but  no  more  prose  like  his;  new  thoughts 
but  never  his  clear  thought  again.f 


*  Gandier  was  killed  some  weeks  before  this.  My  last  word  from 
De  Gourmont  was  a  postcard  asking  for  data  from  which  to  com- 
pose an  orbituary  notice  of  the  sculptor.  —  E.  P. 

t  Aldington  was  the  authorized  translator  of  several  of  De  Gour- 
monfs  works.  I 


T  he    Li  t  tl  e    Review  35 

Decor     Banal 
Richard  Aldington 

Cinq  iboutons  electriques 
Reluisent  audessus  des  tetes 
De  trois  militaires  beiges; 
Un  revolutionnaire  irlandais 
S'en  fiche  de  mes  habits  gtierriers; 
Mademoiselle  m'apporte  du  vin-, 
De  la  soupe,  de  la  viande, 
Mais  moi  je  reste  contemplatif, 
Hebete  par  la  blancheur  de  la  nappe 
En  attandant  quelq'une  qui  ne  vient  pas. 

Advice     to     a    Horned    Toad 
Maxwell    Bodenheim 

Horned  toad  of  cloven  brown, 

Rock-souls  have  dwindled  to  your  eyes 

And  thrown  a  splintered  end  upon  your  blood. 

Night  and  day  have  vanished 

To  you  who  squat  and  watch 

Years  loosen  one  sand-grain  until 

Its  fall  becomes  your  moment. 

Tall  things  plunge  over  you, 

Slashing  their  dreams  with  motion 

That  holds  the  death  of  all  they  seek. 

But  you,  to  whom  fierce  winds  are  ripples. 

Do  not  move  lest  you  lose  the  taste  of  stillness. 

O  horned  toad  of  cloven  brown. 
Never  hop  from  your  grey  rock  crevice 
Mute  with  interwoven  beginnings  and  ends. 
The  fluid  lies  of  motion 
Leave  no  remembrance  behind. 


36  T he    Little    Review 

THREE   PROFESSIONAL   STUDIES 

William   Carlos  Williams 
1. 
W"'  The    Doctor 

IT  IS  idle  to  talk  to  me  of  cowardice,  I  remember  sharply  my 
sensations  of  the  foot-ball  field  when  a  freshman  in  high 
school,  a  slightly  built  boy  of  sixteen.  I  felt  eager  to  get  on  the 
team.  I  was  too  light  but  I  knew  something  of  the  game  from  play- 
ing on  back  lots  and  I  wanted  to  play.  I  am  not  brave.  I  knew 
then  that  I  was  not  brave.    I  wanted  to  play  and  I  played. 

They  put  me  in  at  end  on  the  scrub.  Almost  at  once  the  varsity 
came  around  my  end  and  I  was  knocked  aside  and  discarded.  I  was 
satisfied  to  be  put  out.  I  was  convinced  by  the  feel  of  the  knees 
and  feet  that  struck  me  that  I  was  too  light;  it  seemed  stupid  to 
me  to  attempt  to  continue.  Life  off  the  football  field  was  a  thing 
I  did  not  wish  to  break  so  cheaply.  Perhaps  I  exaggerated  the  dan- 
ger, a  braver  man  might  have  done  better;  but  in  any  case  I  acted 
according  to  the  situation  as  I  saw  it,  painfully  consciously. 

Once  later  I  was  hit  in  the  stomach  going  through  the  line.  I 
thought  I  should  never  breathe  again.  Nothing  but  repeated  spas- 
modic grunts  escaped  my  mouth  and  no  air  in  them.  I  could  hear 
this  loud  exhaust  as  a  thing  completely  outside  myself;  T  couldn't 
stop  it.  My  brother  stood  over  me,  disturbed  by  family  pride,  and 
told  me  to  shut  up.  I  couldn't.  I  didn't  care.  It  meant  nothing  to 
me.  I  didn't  mind  whether  they  thought  me  brave  or  a  coward. 
There  was  a  distinct  satisfaction  in  the  involuntary  nature  of  the 
sound  that  came  from  my  mouth.  I  was  relieved  of  the  necessity  of 
pretending  to  be  brave.    My  brother  thought  I  was  putting  it  on. 

I  remember  too  in  college  a  fellow  in  my  class  who  out  of  an 
excess  of  college  spirit  played  on  the  scrub  four  years  without  the 
slightest  hope  of  advancement  to  the  first  team.  He  was  not  a  good 
player  and  he  was  too  light.  He  went  about  during  the  playing 
season  nimost  always  bru'sed  about  the  eyes  and  with  a  severe  limp. 
I  wanted  to  play  on  the  varsity.    I  often  compared  my  bare  body 


T he    Little    Review  37 

with  those  of  the  other  fellows  standing  about  the  pool  in  the  gym- 
nasium. I  would  have  given  my  soul  to  play  but  I  knew  I  couldn't. 
In  my  estimation  the  fellow  of  whom  I  am  speaking  was  not  a  hero 
but  a  plain  jackass.  He  became  the  symbol  of  a  type  to  me.  I  never 
sawhim  but  I  thought  of  the  one  thing. 

Once  I  came  near  drowning.  I  dived  from  a  row-boat  during  a 
storm  to  recover  my  oars  which  I  had  lost,  having  "caught  a  crab". 
I  had  light  clothes  on.  I  am  not  a  very  strong  swimmer.  I  recov- 
ered one  of  the  oars  but  the  wind  carried  my  boat  away  faster  than 
I  could  follow.  The  waves  were  high.  I  swam  as  hard  as  I  could 
until  out  of  breath.  My  clothes  began  to  drag.  I  tried  to  remove 
my  shoes.  I  couldn't.  I  swallowed  some  water.  I  thought  I  was 
done  for  when  there  crossed  my  mind  these  sentences:  So  this  is 
the  end?    What  a  waste  of  life  to  die  so  stupidly. 

The  thought  was  singularly  emotionless,  simply  a  clear  vision 
of  the  situation.  So  much  was  this  so  that  I  was  instantly  sobered. 
My  action  taking  on  at  once  the  quality  of  the  thought,  tucking  the 
one  oar  under  my  left  arm  I  swam  quietly  along  hoping  someone 
would  see  the  empty  boat  and  come  out  for  me,  which  a  man  did. 
My  courage,  if  you  will,  turned  upon  the  color  of  my  thought. 

I  ask  no  more  than  the  surface  of  a  leaf  for  my  feet  and  you 
can  take  the  rest.  I  have  nothing  for  my  feet.  There  is  nothing 
to  stand  on.  I  receive  nothing  for  my  work.  There  is  always 
nothing,  nothing  —  everywhere.  I  am  I:  that  is  all  I  know  and 
that  is  nothing. 

My  intelligence  will  not  permit  itself  to  be  insulted.  All  or 
nothing  and  since  I  cannot  acept  all,  —  except  by  proxy,  —  nothing. 
I  stand  still.  I  practice  medicine  in  a  small  town.  I  reserve  myself 
for  myself.  I  indulge  my  intelligence,  prefering  that  whisky  to 
another.  I  read  Dora  Marsden's  practical  philosophy  and  smile;  it 
calls  to  my  mind  an  image  of  J.  P.  Morgan. 

I  am  a  young  man,  I  am  in  perfect  health,  I  am  agile,  good 
looking.  I  do  not  smoke  since  it  drugs  the  intelligence;  I  want  all 
my  reactions.  I  do  not  drink  except  for  the  taste;  I  despise  the  lurid 
vapors  of  alcohol.  I  do  not  care  much  for  illicit  relations  with 
women.    I  am  married  and  have  two  children. 

When  my  father  died  last  week  I  saw  that  the  funeral  was 
decently  done.  I  was  affected  by  the  burial  service.  I  felt  warm 
toward  my  mother.    I  felt  grateful  to  my  wife  and  others  for  their 


38  The   Little   Review 

solicitous  behavior.  I  was  touched  by  the  letters  of  sympathy. 
There  was  not  a  cruel  or  bitter  thought  in  my  body.  I  felt  soft, 
gently  inclined  to  all  for  their  kind  words  and  attentions.  I  shook 
hands  with  the  pall  bearers.  I  saw  all  details  carried  out  and 
what — ?  Joyce's  talk  of  the  funeral  ride  was  in  my  head  as  I  jour- 
neyed to  the  graveyard  behind  my  poor  father's  dead  body.  Joyce's 
technique  seemed  to  me  childish  —  Victrola. 

It  seems  incredible  but  my  father  is  gone.  I  cannot  believe  it 
no  matter  how  I  try.  But  my  intelligence  tells  me  that  and  nothing 
else. 

I  am  now  wearing  my  father's  black  coat  which  is  warmer  than 
my  grey  one.  My  mother's  mental  and  financial  status  is  much  sim- 
pler and  more  satisfactory  now  than  it  was  a  fortnight  ago  and 
beyond  that  —  nothing. 

I  will  write  a  poem.  I  will  call  it  Tetelestai.  It  shall  be  a 
setting  up  of  the  meanest  against  the  great.  It  shall  be  the  most 
ironic,  the  bitterest  mockery  of  the  human  heart  I  can  think  of. 
It  shall  pretend  to  raise  a  distinction  where  none  exists  for  there  is 
—  nothing.  No.  I  will  not.  I  will  not  draw  such  a  picture.  I 
will  not  so  demean  myself.  I  will  be  myself  in  my  poem.  I  will 
pretend  distinction  for  neither  great  nor  mean.  King  or  the  mean- 
est of  us  all  :  I  am  a  third.  I  neither  guard  my  heart  nor  do  I 
bang  it  on  difficulties  whose  solutions  have  been  proven  time  and 
time  again  to  be  simply  —  nothing.  I  write  peoms  but  they  have 
nothing  to  do  with  courage  or  the  lack  of  it  or  with  the  attendant 
qualities. 

King,  yes,  but  it  is  not  lack  of  courage  that  keeps  me  from  the 
attack.  The  meanest  of  us  all,  yes,  but  not  from  an  excess  of 
courage  like  a  martyr.  It  is  not  lack  of  gifts  that  keeps  me  from 
the  attack.  In  my  freshman  year  of  college  although  I  was  young- 
est in  the  class  of  one  hundred  and  twenty  six  I  was  rated  sixth  at 
the  finish  of  the  year.  Next  year  I  would  be  first!  My  interest 
vanished  at  that  instant. 

It  is  not  that  I  do  not  dare,  it  is  that  it  is  meaningless  to  be 
either  one  man  or  another:  this  or  that:  it  means  always  and  for- 
ever —  nothing.  "Winds  have  roared  and  kissed  me"  =  nothing 
=  tobacco.  All  things  have  sensual  qualities.  Qui  est  spectateur 
de  la  lumiere?  chanted  Rodin.  I  smell,  I  taste,  I  mix  colors.  I 
will  soon  die. 


i 


Tht    Littli    Review  3f 

Why  then  do  I  write?  Why  then  do  I  serve  my  neighbors? 
Why  not  be  an  inversion  of  the  martyrs  and  instead  of  dying  for 
ALL  —  let  me  die  for  NOTHING. 

But  why  die  at  all?  Why  not  live  and  write?  Why  not  do 
what  I  want  to?  I  want  to  write.  It  does  not  drug  my  senses,  it 
sharpens  them.  It  is  the  holy  ghost  of  that  trinity:  The  Senses, 
Action,  Composition.  I  am  damned  only  when  I  cannot  write.  I 
have  proved  it  under  all  sorts  of  conditions.    It  is  so. 

I  go  in  one  house  and  out  of  another  practicing  my  illicit  trade 
of  smelling,  seeing,  hearing,  touching,  tasting,  weighing.  I  use 
my  intelligence  for  the  mutual  benefit  of  my  patients  and  myself. 
I  have  no  other  profession.  I  do  not  always  get  on  well  in  this 
town.  I  am  more  than  likely  to  turn  out  a  bankrupt  any  day.  I 
will  move  away  then.  I  see  no  other  reason  for  moving.  I  espec- 
ially cannot  compete  with  other  doctors.  I  refuse  to  join  church. 
Elks,  Royal  Arcanum,  club,  Masons .  —  It  amused  me  to  learn  from 
the  reading  of  the  masonic  ritual  over  my  father's  body  that  the 
"lamb  skin"  apron  stands  for  purity!  —  I  do  not  see  the  sense  of 
operating  on  people  myself  when  they  can  get  a  better  man  to  do  it 
cheaper  in  New  York.  I  know  I  cannot  safely  lance  every  bulging 
ear-drum  and  that  it  costs  my  patients  twenty-five  dollars  every 
time  I  call  Dr.  Demerest.  Yet  I  figure  it  to  be  worth  my  while 
and  worth  the  expense  to  call  him. 

I  find  a  doctor  in  this  community  to  have  a  special  function. 
He  is  primairly  an  outpost.  He  should  be  keen  at  diagnosis,  of  the 
patient's  ills  as  of  his  own  limitati6ns.  He  should  be  flexible  in 
judgment  and  ready  always  to  act  quickly  in  every  emergency  not 
often  by  the  lucrative  performances  of  his  own  hands  but  most  of- 
ten by  directing  the  patient  elsewhere,  his  own  hands  idle. 

People  pay  for  the  edged  caress  of  the  knife,  the  most  obvious- 
ly intimate  of  personal  attentions.  There  is  money  in  surgery.  I 
am  interested  in  babies  because  their  processes  are  not  yet  affected 
by  calification  and  because  diagnosis  rests  almost  wholly  upon  a 
perception  of  the  objective  signs.  Courage  seems  singularly  out  of 
place  in  my  life. 

Mrs.    M  — 

Mrs.  M,  whom  I  have  never  seen  or  heard  of,  summons  me  to 
her  house:  Come  tomorrow  morning  at  ten. 


40  The   Littie    Review 


Viney  Johnson  opens  the  door  for  me.  I  attended  her  old- 
time  nigger  mother  in  childbirth  when  I  began  practice  here.  Vinie 
in  neat  black  dress,  high,  white  housemaid's  apron. 

Over  Vinie's  left  shoulder  a  life  size  plaster  head  on  imita- 
tion bronze  and  onyx  pedestal:  Ethiopian  princess.  Vinie.  The 
same  race. 

A  little  clean  boy  with  upstanding,  orange-red  hair  mov^  out 
from  behind  the  maid  to  see  me.  Rather  pale.  I've  seen  him  in 
school.  Has  a  bad  heart  I  think.  Ornate  furnishings.  Nothing 
special.    About  2500  a  year. 

Mrs.  M  says  to  go  right  up. 

Mrs.  M  is  in  her  room  on  the  bed.  Young,  heavy  flesh,  orange- 
red  hair.  Pink  silk  morning  wrapper,  boudeoir  cap,  quilt  over  her 
body,  arms  resting  out  straight  at  her  sides.  Face  flushed,  eyes 
clear,  slight  hyper-animation.  Doesn't  look  very  sick.  Nice  girl. 
She  smiles  and  introduces  herself  :  Mrs.  N  recommended  you.  I 
sit  side-saddle  at  foot  of  bed  at  her  feet  and  look.  We  talk.  I 
study  her  face  and  listen  intently  to  what  she  is  saying,  trying  to 
guess  why  I  have  been  called. 

She  talks.  A  simple  expansive  manner.  Nothing  out  of  the 
way.  By  the  position  in  bed  I  had  expected  some  necessity  for  an 
internal  examination.    We  talk.    I  am  stimulated. 

She  got  out  of  bed  this  morning  and  could  hardly  stand  she  was 
so  dizzy.  Fell  against  the  door  jam  of  bath  room.  Weak  in  the 
knees,  had  to  go  back  to  bed.* 

Hm.  Another  case  of  grippe.  —  Temperature  slightly  subnor- 
mal.   No  headache,  no  backashe,  no  pains  anywhere.    Hm. 

One  month  ago  awoke  with  a  terrific  pain  in  lower  abdomen. 
Thought  she  would  have  to  scream  out.  Woke  husband.  Was 
nauseated.  Went  to  bathroom  and  fainted.  If  it  hadn't  been 
for  that  and  her  husband's  urging  she  would  not  have  called  me 

this  time. 

Pulse  regualr,  soft  —  a  little  too  soft.  I  wish  I  had  brought  my 
sphygmomanometer.     Rate  a  trifle  rapid. 

She  has  been  doing  canteen  work  in  New  York. 

Has  had  three  children.  Was  in  bed  5  to  7  months  after  each. 
Appendicitis  after  first,  puerperal  fever  next  then  abcess  of  the 
breast.    Has  never  nursed  a  baby.    The  second  one. is  dead. 

Matured  early  —  at  nine.    Due  to  that  and  frequent  intermis- 


T  he   Lit  tie    Review  41 


sion  of  menses  combined  with  heat  flashes  a  "specialist"  thought  she 
might  be  having  change  of  life.    Not  likely  at  33. 

The  unmentionable  details.  Sign  of  weakened  blood  tissue, 
natural  effort  of  the  body  to  conserve  blood.  I  used  to  think  I  was 
in  a  delicate  condition  every  month  or  two. 

Try  pulse  again.  Wave-like  accelerations  of  the  beat.  Skin  of 
arms  cold,  mottled  bluish.  Always  has  cold  feet.  Often  cold  clear 
to  the  hips.  No  pain  anywhere.  Just  dizzy  and  weak.  You  said 
that  before;  probably  blood  does  not  get  to  brain.  Especially  likely 
to  happen  in  early  morning. 

Best  time  of  day  is  evening  but  has  to  get  up  before  six  a.  m. 
to  see  that  husband  gets  off  with  a  good  breakfast.  Lips  full  but 
palish.  Transparent  skin.  Cheeks  high  colored  but  blotchy.  Clear, 
grey  eyes.  Habitual  smile.  Straightforward  manner  full  of  engag- 
ing sweetness.  Good  forehead.  —  I  am  never  quiet,  never  sick  with 
little  things.  When  I  get  anything  I  try  to  stay  on  my  feet  for  I 
know  that  if  ever  I  get  down  it  will  be  long  before  I  get  up  again. 
Two  meals  a  day.  Not  much  appetite.  Has  lost  15  pounds  since 
moving  to  this  town.    War  times.    Young  husband.    The  draft. 

I  want  ..to  examine  your  heart.  She  opens  the  silk  wrapper. 
Cant  listen  through  ironed  corset  cover.  Untie  the  tape.  Thin 
chemise.  Better  pull  that  down  too.  Cheeks  flush  a  little.  After 
all  I  am  a  strange  man. 

Percuss  heart.  Not  enlarged.  The  left  breast  held  up,  under 
palm  of  my  left  hand.  Look  for  apex  beat.  Palpate.  Can't  find  it. 
Auscultation.  No  adventitious  murmurs.  Very  slight  accentuation 
of  second  sound.  Heart  now  beating  more  rapidly  than  before.  Ex- 
citement of  the  examination.    Strange  man. 

Liver  not  tender.  Spleen  not  palpable.  No  distention  of 
stomach.    Lungs  clear.    No  history  of  edema  of  ankles.    No  cough. 

Hm.    Recapitulate. 

What  sort  of  an  attack  was  it  you  had  a  month  ago.  Tell  me 
in  detail.  —  I  lay  in  bed.  I  awoke  with  a  pain  low  down  in  my 
stomach.  Very  low  down.  Over  the  womb  it  seemed.  I  waited 
and  waited  for  it  to  pass  but  it  became  worse.  I  gripped  the  side  of 
the  bed  and  held  on  as  long  as  I  could  so  as  not  to  wake  my  hus- 
band. When  I  saw  I  couldn't  stand  it  much  longer  I  tried  to  get 
up.  In  doing  so  I  woke  him.  He  helped  me  to  the  bathroom.  He 
said  my  face  got  the  most  peculiar  color  he  ever  saw.    Green.    I 


42  The    Little    Review 

thought  I  was  going  to  die.  I  have  been  very  ill  but  I  never  thought 
I  was  going  to  die.  But  that  time  I  did.  Sweat  broke  out  all  over 
me.  I  fainted.  But  after  a  while  I  woke  up,  ate  a  good  breakfast, 
went  to  the  city,  stayed  in  all  day  shopping  and  felt  fine.  It  wasn't 
wise  I  know.    That's  what  worried  me  this  time. 

I  had  a' cold  about  that  time  too.  Oh!  Tell  me  about  that. 
Did  you  have  any  other  pains  then?  Yes,  in  the  legs  and  back. 
Headache?  Yes.  I  was  working  at  the  canteen.  One  of  the  naval 
surgeons  came  in  and  noticed  how  hoarse  I  was.  Oh!  He  said  I 
was  sick.  Oh!  But  it  was  such  a  bad  night  he  said  I  should  not 
go  home.  He  said  to  keep  quiet  and  to  keep  my  circulation  up.  It 
was  cold  and  rainy.  I  worked  all  night,  emptied  sixty  trays,  that 
was  my  job.  By  morning  I  felt  fine.  My  voice  came  back  and  I 
really  felt  splendid.  Good.  Yes,  the  work  acted  like  whisky  — 
only  it  was  better. 

Oh,  and  night  before  last,  new  year's  eve,  I  danced  till  4  A.  M. 

Have  you  any  relatives  in  the  war?  No,  but  my  husband  was 
called  just  as  the  armistice  was  signed. 

You  realize,  Mrs.  M,  that  you  are  suffering  from  an  acute  heart 
strain  due  to  dancing  too  long  last  Tuesday  night,  a  strain  super- 
imposed on  a  heart  just  recovering  from  the  grippe  and  overwork, 
a  heart  muscle  already  weakened  by  infections  following  childbirth 
and  always  perhaps  rather  flabby  by  inheritance.  If  you  had 
rested  — 

Yes  but  my  husband  is  one  of  those  men  who  can't  stay  home. 
He  says  the  traffic  on  this  corner  kills  him.  Ha,  ha!  He  no  more 
than  gets  into  the  house  on  Saturady  than  he  wants  to  go  some- 
where always.    Holidays  the  same. 

He  is  a  few  years  younger  than  you  is  he  not?  Well,  the  diz- 
ziness and  weakness  you  understand  are  due  to  faulty  circulation. 
The  blood  does  not  get  to  your  brain  quickly  enough  or  in  sufficient 
quantity  to  supply  the  needs. 

Yes,  I  feel  as  if  something  is  shutting  up  in  there  sometimes. 

Remain  in  bed  today.  Rest  for  an  hour  after  lunch  every  day 
when  you  are  able.  Medicine  —  well,  we'll  see.  You  will  with 
care  largely  overcome  this  setback.  My  advice  is  simply  —  you 
understand  —  DO    NOTHING. 

Tingling  with  hidden  rapture  I  descend  and  enter  the  street 


The    Little   Review  43 

Something 

Stuiso.  Morse  Avenue.  Right  away.  Something  in  her  throat 
—  come  quick.  I  go.  It's  the  woman  herself.  She  has  been  ill  a 
week.  Damn  these  people.  One  look.  Peritonsilar  abcess,  right 
side. 

Do  something  for  her  doctor.  She  can't  eat,  she  can't  drink, 
she  can't  sleep  —  nothing.    Do  something  to  help  her.    I'll  pay  you. 

Put  some  water  on  to  boil.  Bring  that  chair  here.  Turn  it 
around  —  here  by  the  window.  Come  here,  Mrs.  Sit  down. 
Get  a  basin  for  her  to  spit  in.  We'll  have  to  wait  for  the  water  to 
boa. 

Kitchen.  Table.  Dirty  white  oil-cloth,  three  soup  plates  on  it 
full  of  yellow  cornmeal  mush,  paler  yellow  scrapings  of  cheese  over 
it.  Large  dish  full  of  stuff  in  center  of  table.  A  pail  of  it  half 
full  on  the  range.  Three  children,  faces  reflecting  cornmeal  mush, 
take  large  silverplated  spoons  and  begin  to  eat,  standing  up.  An 
old  woman  sits  in  the  corner  with  premature  baby  of  the  dead 
mother.  Baby  doing  well.  What  are  you  feeding  it?  Condens' 
milk.  Alright.  The  mother  of  feeding  children  dashes  back  and 
forth,  in  and  out  of  front  room,  after  basin,  children,  dinner,  water, 
towel,  a  glass,  everything.  Face  wearing  mild  expression  of  torture. 
She  is  watched  half  fearfully,  half  defiantly  by  children  who  want 
to  eat  mush  at  once  and  not  wait.  Father  of  children  wearing 
sheepish  smile  gets  chair  and  takes  charge  of  the  sick  woman. 
She  stolid,  willing  but  apprehensive,  trying  not  to  swallow  spittle. 
Allows  self  to  be  pushed  about  and  turned  at  will.  Her  husband  — 
seems  so  at  any  rate  —  almost  impossible  to  tell  relationships  in 
these  families  —  walks  up  and  down,  hands  in  pockets,  smiles  dis- 
dainfully, says:  Go  on,  doc.  cut  her  throat.  Smiles  supercilious 
smile.  Talks  in  Italian  patois.  Derogatory  look  at  me.  Probably 
expressing  his  opmion.    I  am  defended  by  the  younger  man. 

The  children  dig  into  the  mush  and  chew  it  off  the  spoons.  The 
largest  boy  age  8  glances  sidewise,  sees  mother  is  not  looking, 
shovels  out  a  spoonful  from  brother's  dish.  My  God  do  thev  like  it? 
Haven't  they  enough?  Screams.  Mother  rushes  at  him,  slaps 
his  face.    The  children  do  not  even  know  T  am  in  the  room. 

Water  is  boiling.    Drop  in  the  gag.    So.    Wait  for  it  to  cool- 


44  The    Little   Review 

Alright  now.  She  sits  in  the  chair.  I  insert  the  gag,  ginch  the 
handles  together,  the  ratchet  works.  Her  mouth  is  pried  open. 
Oh.  Agh.  Ah  —  Hold  this.  Hold  her  head.  She  subsides  into 
bovine  passivity.  Trembles  a  little  like  a  cow  about  to  be  slaughtered. 
Gurgles  of   indifferent   nature   from  uninterested  children. 

I  look  in.  Force  down  the  tongue.  I  plunge  knife  into  abcess. 
No  struggle.  What  is  this  woman?  Blood.  I  cut  deeper,  forcing 
the  scalpel  down.  Ah,  there  it  comes.  I  pull  out  the  gag.  Patient 
grasps  basin.     Spits  into  it  five  times.     A  little  pus  and  blood. 

Torrent  of  words  from  man  with  the  cap  on.  Disgust.  The 
smiling  fellow  interprets.  He  says:  Not  enough.  Should  fill  the 
bowl  full! 

You  damned  fool  what  do  you  want  me  to  do,  cut  her  whole 
neck  open? 

Mon  dieu,  mon  dieu,  que  la  chirurgie  soi  beni! 

They  used  to  say  in  the  French  Hospital  that  I  was  a  natural 
surgeon.  I  had  a  wonderfully  steady  and  gentle  hand.  Had  good 
luck  with  cases.  I  had  observed  that  the  men  who  handled  the  cut 
tissues  gently  were  usually  repaid  by  no  infection  and  good  healing. 

Three  dollars.  Multiplied.  The  way  to  get  rich.  Rich  sur- 
geons. My  God  how  many  bad  surgeons  there  are.  Who  knows 
better  than  I? 

I  walk  out  of  the  back  door.    I  lift  my  nose.    I  smell  the  wind. 

Oh  well,  if  you  cannot  succeed  in  this  town  go  to  some  city. 
Initiative,  courage.     Newburg-on-the-Hudson. 

I  want  to  write,  to  write,  to  write.     My  meat  is  hard  to  find. 

What  if  I  have  not  the  courage? 

On    Joyce's    "Exiles" 

A.  C.  Barnes,  Philadelphia: 

DesA"  jh:  —  I  like  your  psychology  better  than  the  —  evident  — 
professional  psychoanalyst's.  But  I  think  you  all  miss  what  is  an 
obvious  situation  :  —  Richard,  an  old  philanderer,  wants  Bertha  to 
fall  into  his  fault  because  thereby  Richard  would  attain  the  feeling 
of  satisfaction  that  comes  from  his  hurt  self-regarding  sentiment 
being  re-established  on  a  partiy  with  his  esteem  for  Bertha.  Tlie 
poignancy   is    due   to   frustration    long   continued.     I    mean   he   feels 

(continued  on  page  49) 


The   Little    Review 


45 


THE    DEATH    OF   VORTICISM 


THE  Kaiser  has  gone,  or  at  least  we  hope  he  will  have  gone 
before  this  article  reaches  the  press  room;  the  Papacy  is  on  its 
way  to  commendable  dessuetude,  with  lamentable  slowness;  Vorti- 
cism  has  been  reported  dead  by  numerous  half-caste  reporters  of 
Kieff,  by  numerous  old  ladies,  by  numberous  parasites  who  having 
done  their  best  to  prevent  the  emergence  of  inventions  later  find  it 
profitable  to  make  copy  out  of  the  same,  etc.,  etc.  Mr.  George 
Moore  has  fled  to  the  scriptures  for  inspiration  and  come  back  with- 
out it,  but  with  serious  damage  to  his  style,  —  a  style  once  so  pel- 
lucid in  its  description  of  bed-room  furniture  and  of  his  whilom 
friends'  dirty  linen. 

Gaudier-Brzeska's  life  work  was,  we  admit,  stopped  by  a  ger- 
man  bullet.  It  may  be  remembered  as  significant  of  the  way  in 
which  the  English  press  welcomes  the  work  of  genius  that  Mr,  James 
Douglas  of  the  Star  commented  on  the  death  notice  of  Gaudier  by 
writing  that  the  perpetrators  of  Blast  carried  a  joke  too  far  in 
printing  pretended  death  notices  of  these  invented  madmen.  It 
is  also  significant  of  what  the  American  "aesthetic  public",  as  en- 
gineered by  the  relicts  of  "the  nineties",  will  swallow  that  the  cele- 
brated aesthetic  publisher  and  book-pirate  Mr.  Tom.  B.  Mosher  of 
Portland,  Me.,  has  published  Mr.  James  Douglas  as  the  fine  flower 
of  British  aestheticism. 


46 


The    Little    Review 


This  and  the  following  woodcuts  are  by  Edward  Wadsworth. 


The    Little    Review 


47 


^^^^HH|^^^H|^^H^^^^^^^^^^^^| 

\ 

^•o 

r^^^ 

48  The    Little    Review 


When  one  mentions  simple  facts  of  this  sort,  idiots  say  that 
you  are  "embittered";  and  when  you  call  a  block-head  a  block-head 
he  can  not  believe  you,  he  usually  says  that  you  are  clever  but  in- 
sincere. Indeed  I  find  it  harder  to  convince  a  man  that  you  really 
think  him  an  ass,  no  matter  how  obvious  his  inanity,  than  to  con- 
vince him  of  any  other  proposition  whatsoever,  Et  pourtant  there 
are  people  whom  one  does  quite  quietly  and  sincerely  and  placidly 
believe  to  be  thoroughly  stupid,  inane  and  insipid. 

And  Verticism  has  not  yet  had  its  funeral.  Gaudier  was 
killed  at  Neuville  St.  Vaast  in  1915.  The  memorial  exhibition  of  his 
work  in  London  last  summer  received  from  all  quarters  the  ap- 
preciation due  in  his  lifetime. 

It  may  be  said  that  after  trying  all  kinds  of  naval  camouflage 
without  satisfaction  the  government  has  at  last  put  a  vorticist  lieu- 
tenant in  charge  of  the  biggest  port  in  England;  that  the  French 
aesthetic  camoufiagists  working  on  theory  and  at  a  distance  from 
the  sea-bord,  are  unsatisfactory  and  that  their  work  has  to  be 
corrected. 

I  shall  not  go  into  the  detail  of  the  vorticist  improvement  of  the 
earlier  impressionist  systems;  suffice  it  that  in  dealing  with  actual 
modernity  the  new  art  has  proved  its  contentions,  and  that  where 
actual  knowledge  of  how  the  human  eye  is  affected  by  colours  and 
patterns  in  relation,  where  there  is  some  standard  of  judgment  other 
than  that  of  half  educated  dilettanti,  vorticist  hard-headedness  has 

made  good. 

After  trying  all  kinds  of  war  painters,  with,  for  the  most  part, 
lamentable  or  at  any  rate  negligible  results,  the  government  has 
taken  on  Mr.  Wyndham  Lewis;  and  after  irritating  delays,  such  as 
may  be  expected  of  an  artist  who  waits  to  know  his  own  mind  be- 
fore rushing  into  expression,  the  government  is  now  getting  its  fin- 
est war  pictures.  The  elderly  are  content  to  compare  them  to  Lucca 
Signorelli,  but  those  who  really  knew  Mr.  Lewis'  mastery  of  his  medi- 
um, before  19 14,  are  perfectly  content  to  see  in  them  nothing  more 
than  the  continuation  of  Lewis. 

Mr.  Roberts,  the  youngest  member  of  the  Blast  group,  is  alsc; 
doing  work  for  the  government,  and  "giving  satisfaction". 

Obituary  notices  from  New  Zealand,  Oregon,  Bloomsbury  anc 
other  suburbs  will  be  read  with  interest  by  i  vorticisti,  communica- 
tions via  Amsterdam  and  the  Wolff  bureau  will  also  be  read  witl 
interest  and  with  reserve. 


The    Little    Review  49 

mean  that  he  hasn't  been  true  to  Bertha  (and  incidentally  to  Robert), 
so  if  she  falls  from  his  respect  for  conventional  standards  he  squares 
himself  with  himself.  You'll  see  what  I'm  trying  to  say  stated 
clearly  in  McDougall's  "Social  Psychology"  in  his  analyses  of  the 
self-regarding  sentiment,  and  of  the  sentiments  of  reproach  —  it's  a 
sort  of  subjective,  inverted,  vicarious  reproach.  Dostoevsky  plays  this 
whole  gamut  beautifully  in  "The  Eternal  Husband."  Of  course  I'm 
taking  only  an  element  in  the  analysis;  —  with  the  rest  I  agree  with 
you  in  the  main. 

[I  should  like  to  go  into  this  with  you  at  length,  if  there  were 
an}'  time  or  lull  in  the  running  of  a  magazine.  And  I  think  where 
you  miss  is  to  take  a  second  premise  for  a  first  and  call  it  an  obvious 
thing.  You  call  Richard  an  old  philanderer,  but  I  am  letting  that  go 
by  and  trying  to  show  why  he  is  a  philanderer,  though  the  common 
usuage  of  this  word  can  have  no  concern  with  Richard. 

In  his  effort  to  make  some  so-called  normal  connection  with  life 
he  may  have  been  conventionally  untrue  to  Bertha  and  Robert,  but 
it  is  his  unfaithfulness  to  himself  in  these  episodes  that  makes  his 
suffering  so  great.  Normal  sex,  any  sex  is  not  for  him  :  a  law  of 
nature  which  he  did  not  vote,  as  he  said.  He  repudiates  the  truth  of 
his  participation  in  any  of  this  philandering.  Nothing  that  Bertha 
or  Robert  could  ever  think  of  him.  no  matter  how  deeply  they 
could  fall  into  his  fault,  —  nothing  could  afifect  his  self-regarding  sen- 
timent. His  self-regarding  sentiment  is  as  absolute  as  his  sex  posi- 
tion, and  is  affected  only  seemingly.  He  comes  home  late  in  the  night 
after  a-  debauch  and  kneels  beside  Bertha's  bed  and  confesses  all  his 
wanderings.  She  has,  through  her  love,  become  Richard  —  as 
I  pointed  out  in  my  previous  article.  She  lives  apart  from  all  sex  life; 
she  is  to  him  a  pure  manifestation  of  himself.  By  these  confessions 
he  puts  away  the  loathsome  experiences,  —  puts  them  on  this  phy- 
sically pure  self  and  can  again  be  free  and  reestablished  in  his  true 
psychic  position. 

If  I  were  Remy  de  Gourmont  I  might  be  able  to  tell  you  all 
I  think  about  the  problem  of  this  Love  that  seeks  a  completion  in 
scarcely  definable  psychic  contacts  never  intimated  nor  sought  by 
that  blind  reproductive  force  called  love.  —  ih.'\ 


so 


The    Little    Review 


The    Little    Review 


SI 


52  T he    Little    Review 

MARY   OLIVIER:   A   LIFE* 

May   Sinclair 
Infancy 

II 

I. 

White  patterns  on  the  window,  sharp  spikes,  feathers,  sprigs 
with  furred  edges,  stuck  fiat  on  to  the  glass;  white  webs,  crinkled 
like  the  skin  of  boiled  milk,  stretched  across  the  corner  of  the  pane; 
crisp,  sticky  stuff  that  bit  your  fingers. 

Out  of  doors,  black  twigs  thickened  with  a  white  fur;  white 
powder  sprinkled  over  the  garden  walk.  The  white,  ruffled  grass 
stood  out  stiffly  and  gave  under  your  feet  with  a  pleasant  crunch- 
ing. The  air  smelt  good;  you  opened  your  mouth  and  drank  it  in 
gulps.    It  went  down  like  cold,  tingling  water. 

Frost.  ..    "    '    -■"•""'^ 

You  saw  the  sun  for  the  first  time,  a  red  ball  that  hung  by  itself 
on  the  yellowish-white  sky.  Mamma  said.  Yes,  of  course  it  would 
fall  if  God  wasn't  there  to  hold  it  up  in  his  hands. 

Supposing  God  dropped  the  sun  .... 

II. 

The  yellowish-white  sky  had  come  close  up  to  the  house,  a  dirty 
blanket  let  down  outside  the  window.  The  tree  made  a  black  pat- 
tern on  it.  Clear  glass  beads  hung  in  a  row  from  the  black  branch; 
each  black  twig  was  tipped  with  a  glass  bead.  When  Jenny  opened 
the  window  there  was  a  queer  cold  smell  like  the  smell  of  the  black 
water  in  the  butt. 

Thin  white  powder  fluttered  out  of  the  blanket  and  fell.  A 
thick  powedr.  A  white  fluff  that  piled  itself  in  a  ridge  on  the  win- 
dow-sill and  curved  softly  in  the  corner  of  the  sash.  It  was  cold 
and  melted  on  your  tongue  with  a  taste  of  window-pane. 

In  the  garden  Mark  and  Dank  and  Roddy  were  making  the 
snow-man. 


*  Copyright,  19 19,  by  the  Macmillan  Company. 


The    Little    Review  53 

Mamma  stood  at  the  nursery  window  with  her  back  to  the  room 
She  called  to  Mary  to  come  and  look  at  the  snow-^nan. 

Mary  was  tired  of  the  snow-man.  She  was  making  a  tower  with 
Roddys  bricks  while  Roddy  wasn't  there.  She  had  to  build  it 
quick  before  he  could  come  back  and  take  his  bricks  away,  and  the 
quicker  you  built  it  the  sooner  it  fell  down.  Mamma  was  not  to 
look  until  it  was  ftnished. 

"Look— Look,  Mamma!  M-m-mary's  m-m-^made  a  tar.  And 
it's  not  failed  down!" 

The  tower  reached  above  Jenny's  ktiee. 

"Come  and  look,  Mamma  ..."  But  Mamma  wouldnt'  even 
turn  her  head. 

"I'm  looking  at  the  snow-man,"  she  said. 

Something  swelled  up,  hot  and  tight,  in  Mary's  body  and  in 
her  face.  She  had  a  big  bursting  face  and  a  big  bursting  body. 
She  struck  the  tower  and  it  fell  down.  Her  violence  made  her  feel 
light  and  small  again  and  happy. 

"Where's  the  tower,  Mary?"  said  Mamma. 

"There  isn't  any  tar.  I've  knocked  it  down.  It  was  a  nashty 
tar." 

III. 

Aunt  Charlotte  — 

Aunt  Charlotte  had  sent  the  Isle  of  Skye  terrier  to  Dank, 

There  was  a  picture  of  Aunt  Charlotte  in  Mamma's  album.  She 
stood  on  a  strip  of  carpet,  supported  by  the  hoops  of  her  crinoline; 
her  black  lace  shawl  made  a  pattern  on  the  light  go\\Ti.  She  wore 
a  little  hat  with  a  white  sweeping  feather,  and  under  the  hat  two 
long  black  curls  hung  down  straight  on  each  shoulder. 

The  other  people  in  the  album  were  sulky  and  wouldn't  look 
at  you.  The  gentlemen  made  cross  faces  at  somebody  who  wasn't 
there;  the  ladies  hung  their  heads  and  looked  down  at  their  crino- 
lines. Aunt  Charlotte  hung  her  head  too,  but  her  eyes,  tilted  up 
straight  under  her  forehead,  pointed  at  you  .  And  between  her  stiff 
black  curls  she  was  smiling  —  smiling.  When  Mamma  came  to 
Aunt  Charlotte's  picture  she  tried  to  turn  over  the  page  of  the 
ilbum  quick. 

Aunt  Charlotte  sent  things.  She  sent  the  fat  valentine  with 
he  lace  paper  border  and  black  letters  printed  on  sweet-smelling 


54  The    Little    Review 

white  satin  that  Papa  threw  into  the  fire,  and  the  white  china  doll 
with  black  hair  and  blue  eyes  and  no  clothes  on,  that  Jenny  hid  in 
the  nursery  cupboard. 

The  Skye  terrier  brought  a  message  tied  under  his  chin:  "Tib. 
For  my  dear  little  nephew  Dan,  with  Aunt  Charlotte's  fond  love.'' 
He  had  high-peaked,  tufted  ears  and  a  blackish-grey  coat  that  trailed 
on  the  floor  like  a  shawl  that  was  too  big  for  him.  When  you  tried 
to  stroke  him  the  shawl  swept  and  trailed  away  under  the  table 
You  saw  nothing  but  shawl  and  ears  until  Papa  began  to  tease 
Tib.  Papa  snapped  his  fingers  and  thumb  at  him,  and  Tib  showecJ 
little  angry  eyes  and  white  teeth  set  in  a  black  snarl. 

Mamma  said,  "Please  don't  do  that  again,  Emilius." 

And  Papa  did  it  again. 

IV. 

"What  are  you  looking  at.  Master  Daniel?"  said  Jenny. 

"Nothing." 

"Then  what  are  you  looking  like  that  for?  You  didn' 
ought  to." 

Papa  had  sent  Mark  and  Dank  to  the  nursery  in  disgrace 
Mark  leaned  over  the  back  of  Jenny's  chair  and  rocked  her.  Hi: 
face  was  red  but  tight;  and  as  he  rocked  he  smiled  because  of  hii 
punishment. 

Dank  lay  on  the  floor  on  his  stomach,  his  shoulders  hunched 
raised  on  his  elbows,  his  chin  supported  by  his  clenched  fists.  Hi 
was  a  dark  and  white  boy  with  dusty  eyelashes  and  rough,  dogg] 
hair.  He  had  puckered  up  his  mouth  and  made  it  small;  under  th^ 
scowl  of  his  twisted  eyebrows  he  was  looking  at  no'thing. 

-'It's  no  worse  for  you  than  it  is  for  Master  Mark,"  said  Jenny 

"Isn't  it?  Tib  was  my  dog.  If  he  hadn't  been  my  dog  Pap: 
wouldn't  have  teased  him,  and  Mamma  wouldn't  have  sent  him  bad 
to  Aunt  Charlotte,  and  Aunt  Charlotte  wouldn't  have  let  him  be  rui 
over." 

"Yes.    But  what  did  you  say  to  your  Papa?" 

"I  said  I  wish  Tib  had  bitten  him.  So  I  do.  And  Mark  sai( 
it  would  have  served  him  jolly  well  right." 

"So  it  would,"  said  Mark. 

Roddy  had  turned  his  back  on  them.  Nobody  was  taking  an} 
notice  of  him;  so  he  sang  aloud  to  himself  the  song  he  was  forbiddei 
to  sing:  . 


The    Little    Review 


55 


"John  Brown's  body  lies  a-rotting  in  his  grave, 
John  Brown's  body  lies  a-rotting  in  his  grave"  — 

The  song  seemed  to  burst  out  of  Roddy's  beautiful  white  face; 
his  pink  lips  twirled  and  tilted;  his  golden  curls  bobbed  and  nodded 
to  the  tune. 

"  '  John  Brown's  body  lies  a-rotting  in  his  grave, 
As  we  go  marching  on!'  " 

"When  I  grow  up,"  said  Dank,  "I'll  kill  Papa  for  killing  Tibby. 
I'll  bore  holes  in  his  face  with  Mark's  gimlet.  I'll  cut  pieces  out  of 
him.  I'll  get  the  matches  and  set  fire  to  his  beard.  I'll  —  111 
hurt  hkn." 

"I  don't  think  /  shall,"  said  Mark.  "But  if  I  do  I  shan't  kick 
up  a  silly  row  about  it  first." 

"Its  all  very  well  for  you.  You'd  kick  up  a  row  if  Tibby  was 
your  dog." 

Mary  had  forgotten  Tibby.    Now  she  remembered 

"Where's  Tibby?    I  want  him." 

"Tibby's  dead,"  said  Jenny. 

"What's  'dead'?" 

"Never  you  mind." 

Roddy  was  singing: 

"  '  And  jrom  his  nose  and  to  his  chin 

The  worms  crawled  out  and  the  worms  crawled  in  '  " 


''That's  dead,"  said  Roddy. 


V. 


You  never  knew  when  Aunt  Charlotte  mightn't  send  something. 
IShe  forgot  your  birthday  and  sometimes  Christmas;  but,  to  make 
up  for  that,  she  remembered  in  between.  Every  time  she  was  going 
to  be  married  she  remembered. 

Sarah  the  cat  came  too  long  after  Mark's  twelfth  birthday  to 
be  his  birthday  present.  There  was  no  message  with  her  except 
that  Aunt  Charlotte  was  going  to  be  married  and  didn't  want  her 
my  more.  Whenever  Aunt  Charlotte  was  going  to  be  married  she 
>ent  you  something  that  she  didn't  want. 

Sarah  was  a  white  cat  with  a  pink  nose  and  pink  lips  and  pink 
>ads  under  her  paws.    Her  tabby  hood  came  down  in  a  peak  between 


56  The    Little    Review 

her  green  eyes.  Her  tabby  cape  went  on  along  the  back  of  her 
tail,  tapering  to  the  tip.  Sarah  crouched  against  the  fireguard, 
her  haunches  raised,  her  head  sunk  back  on  her  shoulders,  and  her 
paws  tucked  in  under  her  white,  pouting  breast. 

Mark  stooped  over  her;  his  mouth  smiled  its  small,  firm  smile; 
his  eyes  shone  as  he  stroked  her.  Sarah  raised  her  haunches  under 
the  caressing  hand. 

Mary's  body  was  still.  Something  stirred  and  tightened  in  it 
when  she  looked  at  Sarah. 

"I  want  Sarah,"  she  said. 

"You  can't  have  her,"  said  Jenny.    "She's  Master  Mark's  cat." 

She  wanted  her  more  than  Roddy's  bricks  and  Bank's  animal- 
book  or  Mark's  soldiers.  She  trembled  when  she  held  her  in  her 
arms  and  kissed  her  and  smelt  the  warm,  sweet,  sleepy  smell  that 
came  from  the  top  of  her  head. 

"Little  girls  can't  have  everything  they  want,"  said  Jenny. 

"I  wanted  her  before  you  did,"  said  Dank.  ^'You're  too  little  to 
have  a  cat  at  all." 

He  sat  on  the  table,  swinging  his  legs.  His  dark,  mournful  eyes 
watched  Mark  under  their  doggy  scowl.  He  looked  like  Tibby, 
the  terrier  that  Mamma  sent  away  because  Papa  teased  him. 

"Sarah  isnt'  your  cat  either,  Master  Daniel.  Your  Aunt  Char- 
lotte gave  her  to  your  Mamma,  and  your  Mamma  gave  her  to  Master 
Mark." 

"She  ought  to  have  given  her  to  me.    She  took  my  dog  away." 

"/  gave  her  to  you,"  said  Mark. 

"And  I  gave  her  you  back  again." 

"Well  then,  she's  half  our  cat." 

"I  want  her,"  said  Mary  .She  said  it  again  and  again. 

Mamma  came  and  took  her  into  the  room  with  the  big  bed. 

The  gas  blazed  in  the  white  globes.  Lovely  white  lights 
washed  like  water  over  the  polished  yellow  furniture:  the  bed,  the 
great  high  wardrobe,  the  chest  of  drawers,  the  twisted  poles  of  the 
looking  glass.  There  were  soft  rounds  and  edges  of  blond  light  on 
the  white  marble  chimney-piece  and  the  white  marble  washstand. 
The  drawn  curtains  were  covered  with  shining  silver  patterns  on  fi 
sleek  green  ground  that  shone.  All  these  things  showed  again  in  iJM 
long,  flashing  mirrors. 

Mary  looked  round  the  room  and  wondered  why  the  squat  grey 
men  had  gone  out  of  the  curtains. 


U 


The    Little    Review  57 

"Don't  look  about  you,"  said  Mamma.  "Look  at  me.  Why  do 
you  want  Sarah?" 

She  had  forgotten  Sarah. 

"Because,"  she  said,  "Sarah  is  so  sweet." 

"Mamma  gave  Sarah  to  Mark.  Mary  mustn't  want  what  isn't 
given  her.  Mark  doesn't  say,  *I  want  Mary's  dollies.'  Papa  doesn't 
say,  *I  want  Mamma's  workhox.'  " 

"But  /  want  Sarah." 

"And  that's  selfi^  and  sdf-willed." 

Mamma  sat  down  on  the  low  chair  at  the  foot  of  the  bed. 

"God,"  she  said,  "hates  selfishness  and  self-will.  God  as 
grieved  every  time  Mary  is  self-willed  and  sdfish.  He  wants  her  to 
give  up  her  will." 

Wien  Mamma  talked  about  God  she  took  you  on  her  lap  and 
you  played  with  the  gold  tassel  on  her  watch-chain.  Her  face  was 
solemn  and  tender.  She  spoke  softly.  She  was  afraid  that  God 
might  hear  her  talking  about  him  and  wouldn't  like  it. 

Mary  knelt  in  Mamma's  lap  and  said,  "Gentle  Jesus,  meek  and 
mild,"  and  "Our  Father,"  and  played  with  the  gold  tassel.  Every 
day  began  and  ended  with  "Our  Father"  and  "Gentle  Jesus,  meek 
and  mild." 

"What's  'hallowed'?" 

"Holy,"  said  Mamma.    "What  God  is.    Sacred  and  holy." 

Mary  twisted  the  gold  tassel  and  made  it  dance  and  run  through 

the  loop  of  the  chain.    Mamma  took  it'  out  of  her  hands  and  pressed 

them  together  and  stooped  her  head  to  them  and  kissed  them.    She 

ould  feel  the  kiss  tingling  through  her  body  from  her  finger-tips, 

and  she  was  suddenly  docile  and  appeased. 

When  she  lay  in  her  cot  behind  the  curtain  she  prayed:  "Please 
God,  keep  me  from  wanting  Sarah." 

In  the  morning  she  remembered.  When  she  looked  at  Sarah  she 
thought:    "Sarah  is  Mark's  cat  and  Bank's  cat." 

She  touched  her  with  the  tips  of  her  fingers.  Sarah's  eyes  were 
reproachful  and  unhappy.  She  ray  away  and  crept  under  the  chest 
>f  drawers. 

"Mamma  gave  Sarah  to  Mark." 

Mamma  was  sacred  and  holy.  Mark  was  sacred  and  holy. 
5arah  was  sacred  and  holy,  crouching  under  the  chest  of  drawers, 
m\h  her  eyes  gleaming  in  the  darkness. 

{to  he  continued) 


$9  The    Little    Review 

ULYSSES 

James    Joyce 

Episode  VIII,  (continued) 

Mr.  Bloom  walked  towards  Dawson  street,  his  tongue  brushing 
his  teeth  smooth.  Something  green  it  would  have  to  be:  spinach 
say.    Then  with  those  Rontgen  rays  searchlight  you  could. 

At  Duke  lane  a  terrier  choked  up  a  sick  knuckly  cud  on  the 
cobblestones  and  lapped  it  with  new  zest.  Mr.  Bloom  coasted 
warily.  Ruminants.  Wonder  if  Tom  Rochford  will  do  anything 
with  that  invention  of  his.  Wasting  time  explaining  it  to  Flynn's 
mouth.  Lean  people  long  mouths.  Ought  to  be  a  hall  or  a  place 
where  inventors  could  go  in  and  invent  free.  Course  then  you'd 
have  all  the  cranks  pestering. 

He  hummed,  prolonging  in  solemn  echo,  the  closes  of  the  bars: 

—  Don  Giovanni,  a  cenar  teco 
M'  invitasti. 

Feel  better.  Burgundy.  Good  pick  me  up.  Who  distilled 
first?  Some  chap  in  the  blues.  Dutch  courage.  That  Kilkenny 
People  in  the  national  library  now  I  must. 

Bare  clean  closestools,  waiting,  in  the  window  of  William  Mil- 
ler, plumber,  turned  back  his  thoughts.  They  could:  and  watch  it 
all  the  way  down  changing  biliary  duct  spleen  squirting  liver  gastric 
juice  coils  of  intestines  like  pipes.  But  the  poor  buffer  would  have 
to  stand  all  the  time  with  his  insides  entrails  on  show.    Science. 

—  A  cenar  teco. 

What  does  that  teco  mean?    Tonight  perhaps. 

—  Don  Giovanni,  thou  hast  me  invited 
To  come  to  supper  tonight 

The  rum  the  rumdum, 

Doesn't  go  properly. 

Keyes:  two  months  if  I  get  Nannetti  to.  That'll  be  two  pounds 
ten  about  two  pounds  eight.  Three  Hynes  owes  me.  Two  eleven. 
Presscott's  dyeworks  van  over  there.  If  I  get  Billy  Presscott's  ad. 
Two  fifteen.     Five  guineas  about.    On  the  pig's  back. 

Could  buy  one  of  those  silk  petticoats  for  Molly,  colour  of  her 
new  garters. 


The    Little    Review  59 

Today.    Today.    Not  think. 

Tour  the  south  then.  What  about  English  wateringplaces? 
Brighton,  Margate.  Piers  by  moonlight.  Her  voice  floating  out. 
Those  lovely  seaside  girls. 

He  turned  at  Gray's  confectioner's  window  of  unbought  tarts 
and  passed  the  reverend  Thomas  Connellan's  bookstore.  Why  I  left 
the  church  of  Rome.  Bird's  nest  women  run  him.  They  say  they 
used  to  give  pauper  children  soup  to  change  to  protestants.  Why 
we  left  the  church  of  Rome. 

A  blind  stripling  stood  tapping  the  curbstone  with  his  slender 
cane.    No  tram  in  sight.    Wants  to  cross 

—  Do  you  want  to  cross?    Mr.  Bloom  asked. 
The  blind  stripling   did   not   answer.     His   wallface   frowned 

weakly.    He  moved  his  head  uncertainly. 

—  You're  in  Dawson  street,  Mr  Bloom  said.  Molesworth 
street  is  opposite.  Do  you  want  to  cross?  There's  nothing  in  the 
way. 

The  cane  moved  out  trembling  to  the  left.  Mr.  Bloom's  eye 
followed  its  line  and  saw  again  the  dye  works'  van  drawn  up  before 
Drago's.  Where  I  saw  his  brillantined  hair  just  when  I  was.  Horse 
drooping.     Driver  in  John  Long's.     Slaking  his  draught. 

—  There's  a  van  there,  Mr.  Bloom  said,  but  it's  not  moving. 
I'll  see  you  across.    Do  you  want  to  go  to  Molesworth  street? 

—  Yes,  the  stripling  answered.     South  Frederick  street. 

—  Come,  Mr.  Bloom  said. 
He  touched  the  thin  elbow  gently:  then  took  the  limp  seeing 

hand  to  guide  it  forward. 

Say  something  to  him.  Better  not  do  the  condescending.  Pass 
a  remark. 

—  The  rain  kept  off. 

No  answer. 

Stains  on  his  coat.  Slobbers  his  food  I  suppose.  Like  a 
child's  hand  his  hand.  Like  Milly's  was.  Sensitive.  Sizing  me 
up  I  daresay  from  my  hand.  Van.  Keep  his  cane  clear  of  the 
Worse's  legs:  tired  drudge  get  his  doze.  That's  right.  Clear.  Be- 
lind  a  bull:  in  front  of  a  horse. 

—  Thanks,  sir. 
Knows  I'm  a  man.    Voice. 

—  Right  now?    First  turn  to  Hie  left. 


6o  The    Little    Review 

The  blind  stripling  tapped  the  curbstone  and  went  on  his  way, 
drawing  his  cane  back,  feeling  again, 

Mr.  Bloom  walked  behind  him.  Poor  young  fellow!  How  on 
earth  did  he  know  that  van  was  there?  Must  have  felt  it.  See  things 
in  their  foreheads  perhaps.  Kind  of  sense  of  volume.  Weight  or 
size  of  it,  something  blacker  than  the  dark.  Wonder  would  he  feel 
it  if  something  was  removed.  Feel  a  gap.  Queer  idea  of  Dublin  he 
must  have,  tapping  his  way  round  by  the  stones.  Could  he  walk  in 
a  beeline  if  he  hadn't  that  cane?  Bloodless  pious  face  like  a  fellow 
going  in  to  be  a  priest. 

Penrose!     That  was  that  chap's  name. 

Look  at  all  the  things  they  can  learn  to  do.  Read  with  their 
fingers.  Tune  pianos.  Of  course  the  other  senses  are  more.  Em- 
broider. Plait  baskets.  People  ought  to  help.  Work  basket  I 
could  buy  Molly's  birthday.  Hates  sewing.  Might  take  an  objec- 
tion.   Dark  men  they  call  them. 

Sense  of  smell  must  be  stronger  too.  Smells  on  all  sides 
bunched  together.  Each  street  different  smell.  Each  person  too. 
Then  the  spring,  the  summer:  smells.  Tastes,  They  say  you  can't 
taste  wines  with  your  eyes  shut.  Also  smoke  in  the  dark  iiiey  say 
get  no  pleasure. 

And  with  a  woman,  for  instance.  Must  be  strange  not  tc 
see  her.  Kind  of  a  form  in  his  mind's  eye.  The  voice  temperature 
when  he  touches  her  with  his  fingers  must  almost  see  the  lines, 
the  curves.  His  hands  on  her  hair,  for  instance.  Say  it  was  blacl 
for  instance.  Good.  We  call  it  black.  Then  passing  over  hei 
white  skin.    Different  feel  perhaps.     Feeling  of  white, 

Postoffice.  Must  answer.  Fag  toady.  Send  her  a  postal  ordei 
two  shillings  half  a  crown.  Accept  my  little  present.  Stationer'^ 
just  here  too.    Wait.    Think  over  it. 

With  a  gentle  finger  he  felt  ever  so  slowly  the  hair  combec 
back  above  his  ears.  Again.  Fibres  of  fine  fine  straw.  Then 
gently  his  finger  felt  the  skin  of  his  right  cheek.  Dawny  hair  the« 
too.  Not  smooth  enough.  The  belly  is  the  smoothest.  No-one  j 
about.  There  he  goes  into  Frederick  street.  Perhaps  to  Levenston's! 
dancing  academy:  piano.    Might  be  settling  my  braces. 

Walking  by  Doran's  publichouse  he  slid  his  hand  between  waist 
coat  and  trousers  and,  pulling  aside  his  shirt  gently,  felt  a  slack 
fold  of  his  belly.    But  I  know  it's  whitey  yellow.    Want  to  try  in 


The    Little    Review  6i 


the  dark  to  see. 

He  "withdrew  his  hand  and  pulled  his  dress  to. 
I  Poor  feMow!  Quite  a  boy.  Terrible.  Really  terrible.  Where 
is  the  justice  being  born  that  way.  All  those  women  and  children 
excursion  beanfeast  burned  and  drowned  in  New  York,  Holocaust. 
Karma  they  call  that  transmigration  for  sins  you  did  in  a  past  life 
the  reincarnation  met  him  pikehoses.  Dear,  dear,  dear.  Pity  of 
jGOurse:  but  somehow  you  can't  cotton  on  to  them  someway. 
\  Sir  Frederick  Falkiner  going  into  the  freemason's  hall.  Solemn 
as  Troy.  After  his  good  lunch  in  Earlsfort  (terrace.  I  suppose  he'd 
Iturn  up  his  nose  at  that  wine  I  drank.  Has  his  own  ideas  of  justice 
in  the  recorder's  court.  Wellmeaning  old  man.  Police  chargesheets 
zrammed  with  cases  get  their  percentage  manufacturing  crime. 
Sends  them  to  the  rightabout.  The  devil  on  moneylenders.  Gave 
Reuben  J.  a  great  strawcalling.  Now  he's  really  what  they  call  a 
dirty  jew.  Power  those  judges  have.  Grumpy  old  topers  in  wigs. 
\nd  may  the  Lord  have  mercy  on  your  soul. 

Hello  placard.  Mirus  bazaar.  His  excellency  the  lord  lieu- 
lenant.  Sixteenth.  Today  it  is.  In  aid  of  funds  for  Mercer's 
lospital.  The  Messiah  was  first  given  for  that.  Yes.  Handel. 
iVhat  about  going  out  there.  Ballsbridge.  Drop  in  on  Keyes.  No 
ise  sticking  to  him  like  a  leech.    Sure  to  know  someone  on  the  gate. 

Mr  Bloom  came  to  Kildare  street.     First  I  must.    Library. 

Straiw  hat  in  sunlight.  Tan  shoes.  Turnedup  trousers.  It  is. 
Kt  is. 

His  heart  quopped  softly.  To  the  right.  Museum.  Goddess- 
s.     He  swerved  to  the  right. 

Is  it?  Almost  certain.  Won't  look.  Wine  in  my  face.  Why 
lid  I?    Yes,  it  is.    The  walk.    Not  see.    Not  see.    Get  on. 

Making  for  the  museum  gate  with  long  windy  strides  he  lifted 
lis  eyes.  Handsome  building.  Sir  Thomas  Deane  designed.  Not 
ollowing  me? 

Didn't  see  me  perhaps.    Light  in  his  eyes. 

The  flutter  of  his  breath  came  forth  in  short  sighs.  Quick. 
!k)ld  statues:  quiet  there.    Safe  in  a  minute. 

No  didn't  see  me.    After  two.    Just  at  the  gate. 

My  heart! 

His  eyes  beating  looked  steadfastly  at  cream  curves  of  stone, 
lir  homas  Deane  was  the  Greek  architecture. 


62  T  he  Lit  tie  Re  view 

Look  for  something  I. 

His  hasty  hand  went  quick  into  a  pocket,  took  out,  read  un- 
folded Agendajth  Netaim.    Where  did  I? 

Busy  looking  for. 

He  ithrust  back  quickly  Agendath. 

Afternoon  she  said. 

I  am  looking  for  that.    Yes,  that.    Try  aill  pockets.    Handker 
Freeman.     Where  did  I?     Ah,  yes.     Trousers.     Potato.     Purse  I 
Where? 

Hurry.    Walk  quietly.     Moment  more.     My  heart. 

His  hand  looking  for  the  where  did  I  put  found  in  his  hip  poc 
ket  soap  lotion  have  to  call  tepid  paper  stuck.  Ah  soap  there  I  yes 
Gate. 

Safe! 

(  to  be  continued  ) 

That    International    Episode 

Edgar  Jepson,  London: 

With  regard  to  the  letters  of  Miss  Harriet  Monroe,  the  editres 
of  Poetry,  I  wrote  to  her  at  the  end  of  1917  to  ask  her  if  she  woul 
like  an  appreciation  of  recent  United  States  poetry.  She  wrote  tha 
she  would,  sent  me  twenty-eight  numbers  of  her  magazine,  rangin 
over  three  years,  and  in  those  numbers  marked  the  typically  Unite- 
States  poems.  So  much  for  the  "uninvited  and  undesired"  invasioi 
1  read  those  marked  poems  and  taking  three  of  them  to  which  Poet) 
had  awarded  a  prize  in  each  of  those  three  years,  as  typical  of  th 
typical,  I  dealt  chiefly  with  them.  I  said,  as  politely  as  my  outrage 
aesthetic  sensibilities  would  allow,  that  they  were  punk;  I  quote 
enough  of  them  to  demonstrate  that  they  were  punk;  and  pun 
they  are. 

Neither  Miss  Harriet  Monroe  nor  any  of  her  supporters  made  an 
attempt  whatever  to  counter  a  single  one  of  my  criticisms,  to  demoi 
strate  that  the  punk  I  said  was  punk  was  not  punk.  They  burst  inl 
a  storm  of  irrelevant  abuse  of  me.  Miss  Harriet  Monroe's  article  i 
Poetry  was  just  abuse  of  me.  Mr.  Austin  Harrison  told  me  that  tf 
article  she  sent  to  the  English  Review  was  just  abuse  of  me.  A  M 
Burton  Roscoe's  article  in  the  Chicago  Tribune  was  just  abuse  of  m 
That  is  merely  silly. 


T  he    Lit  tie    Review  63 


All    they    had    to    do    was    to    demonstrate    that    such    lines    as, 
Then  Uncle  Tom  to  Eva  flew, 
Lurching  bravos  from  the  ditches  dank, 
His  hair  was  black  as  a  sheep's  wool  that  is  black. 
She  knew  you  had  the  madness  for  Arabel, 
are  poetry.     Why  didn't  they  do  it? 

In  the  same  article  I  wrote,  quite  fairly,  that  in  Mr.  T.  S.  Eliot 
the  United  States  has  a  great  poet.  I  quoted  enough  of  his  work, 
the  whole  of  "La  Figlia  Che  Piange,"  to  demonstrate  that  he  is  the 
greatest  master  of  emotion,  intensity,  and  the  beautiful  music  of 
words  the  United  States  has  produced  since  Poe.  Miss  Monroe  archly 
wrote  that  Mr.  Eliot  must  have  winked  when  he  read  it.  Impayablel 
By  the  way,  I  did  not  write  that  Mr.  Edgar  Frost's  "Snow"  was 
a.  "maundering  burble";  I  wrote  that  it  was  "maundering  dribble". 
[t  is. 

With  regard  to  jh's  articles,  I  have  no  doubt  that  she  is  a 
irery  earnest  lady,  but  I  wish  she  would  begin  to  think.  It  is  ob- 
vious that  where  you  have  verse,  you  have  an  exercise  of  the  aesthetic 
ictivity  and  a  legitimate  occasion  for  aesthetic  criticism.  The  fact 
;hat  the  exercise  of  that  activity  is  so  poor  that  the  verse  has  no 
Tiore  to  do  with  poetry  than  it  has  with  rat-catching  merely  renders 
m  aesthetic  criticism  of  it  the  more  expedient. 

Of  course  I  never  said  anyhing  feo  silly  as  that  "the  technical  ac- 
ivity  is  the  prime  activity  of  Art."  I  said  that  Art  is  in  the  handling; 
md  that  is  wholly  true.  What  is  the  use  from  the  creative  point 
)f  view,  of  jh's  "intuition  of  beauty"  to  a  man  if  he  cannot  give  it 
orm?  He  may  have  all  the  perception  of  beauty  possible  to  a  human 
)eing,  but  if  he  canont  handle  that  perception  so  as  to  give  it  its 
•ight  form  he  is  neither  a  poet,  a  musician,  a  sculptor,  or  a  painter, 
^gain  the  phrase  "the  Poet's  vision  of  the  world"  is  not  "the  thread- 
bare terminology  of  half-baked  criticism";  it  is  an  uncommonly  actual 
act.  The  poet's  vision  of  the  world  is  an  actual  and  most  important 
art  of  him.  Moreover  it  is  a  good  concrete  phrase  and  very  much 
afer  than  jh's  "intuition  of  beauty",  which  begs  a  very  important 
uestion:  Also  I  propose  to  go  on  asserting  that  the  poetry  of  Mr. 
\  S.  Eliot  is  the  fine  flower  of  the  United  States  spirit  of  to-day  be- 
ause  that  is  exactly  what  it  is. 

Again  my  discussion  of  voices  was  wholly  pertinent.     If  you  will 
o  on  vvhining  or  droning  through  your  noses  you  will  remain  deaf 


64  T  he    Li  t  tie    Review 

to  the  music  of  words  and  you  never  will  write  poetry,  or  know  it 
when  you  get  it.  Without  the  music  of  words  there  is  no  poetry! 
You  may  print  the  words  in  any  arrangement  you  like,  they  remain 
just  prose.  I  believe  that  this  deafness  is  the  reason  why  the  bulk 
of  the  versifiers  of  the  United  States  sprang  so  lithely  on  free  verse  : 
it  supplied  a  long-felt  want. 

Finally  why  are  you  Yankees  so  infernally  touchy?  You  may  say 
any  mortal  thing  you  like  about  any  English  writer  of  verse  you  like 
and  I  shall  not  turn  a  hair.  Does  your  touchiness  come  from  the 
consciousness  that  your  airs  of  aesthetic  superiority  are  not  justified 
by  your  aesthetic  achievement  and  I  called  your  blufif?  If  it  does 
you  are  quite  right.  In  the  matter  of  aesthetic  achievement  the 
United  States  is  last  on  the  roll  of  the  civilized  nations  of  all  time. 
It's  poets  and  painters  had  to  be  Europeanized  before  they  could  at- 
tain their  aesthetic  maturity.  The  important  thing  is  that  you  are 
going  to  stay  where  you  are,  if  you  will  persist  in  humbugging  your- 
selves that, 

His  hair  w,as  black  as  a  sheep's  wool  that  is  black,  is  poetry  be- 
cause it  was  written  in  Keokuk. 

[I  can't  do  any  more  about  this  Jepson  episode.  It  isn't  interest- 
ing to  any  one  —  not  worth  the  space  and  paper  given  to  it.  Bui 
a  point  or  two  may  be  discussed  here  as  well  as  anywhere  else.  Al 
most  anyone  but  Mr.  Jepson,  it  would  seem,  could  have  gathered  fron 
the  various  articles  of  "just  abuse"  that  the  "touchiness"  didn't  havi 
much  to  do  with  any  attack  on  our  "airs  of  aesthetic  superiority' 
or  "achievement";  and  I  don't  think  that  the  present  aesthetic  activi 
ties  of  either  England  or  America  of  enough  importance  for  an  inter 
national  controversy.  It  wasn't  any  of  this  :  it  was  really  a  protes 
against  Mr.  Jepson  as  a  critic.  We  have  enough  of  this  "swinginj 
the  bladder",  this  plain  business-suit  criticism  of  poetry  right  here  ii 
America. 

We  are  kindly  told  that  criticism  is  badly  needed  "before  th 
U.  S.  can  export  works  of  Art  instead  of  exporting  artists".  We'll  ad 
mit  all  this,  but  we  can't  see  why  we  should  find  ourselves  in  a  stree 
fight  for  protesting  against  imports.  We'll  admit  all  and  anythinj 
about  our  aesthetic  achievement,  we  have  some  sense  of  tragedy  i 
we  aren't  granted  any  sense  of  humour,  but  the  thing  turns  on  a  sup^ 
stition  held  by  us  that  criticism  also  is  an  art  and  we  scarcely  ha^ 


The    Little    Review 


>m  or  patience  : 
it  kind  of  criticisni 
I  thought  when   i 
s\as  addressing  my 
—         The  making 


don't  need  to  import 


itelHgences  somewhat   , 
a  work  of  Art  is  an  act  oi  wih^uii),  an 
uient  to  form  in  the  absohue;  it  is  also  an  outward  sign 
I   thai  the  artist  has  had  this  contact,     Tlie  artist's  per- 
-'t'auty   concerns  only   form.     Form   is  what   he  lias  seen 
ere  other  men  see  only  the  context  of  the  world.     He  has  been 
■  le  aware  of  form,  and  this  he  presents,  using  whatever  subject  ma- 
il manifestation  di  i  it  isn't  form  that  he  has 

ii.iKi.-  any  perception  of  a  beautiiii! 

:    I  am  not  writing  a  treatise  <>ii 
eunic.aiy"  av'  iih   Mr.  Jepson 

wholly  ridicn  •nstration   wi 


I  I  ,      i!ll      illlll  Mill  I      Ol      ll' 

itext  into  a  work 

at  -tht'i;. 

A      N 

virii  ini;  inii>liatiuiis  t;i 

l.s-j'.ilil'lll 


ill 


)ice-beautiful-p<' 
i'    i  haven't  misquoted  any  of  Mr.  Jepson's  phrases.    For  the 
'I tie  exactness  in  all  controversy  let  me  call  attention  to 
ive  leap  on  Miss  Monroe's  part  in  referring  to  Pound's 
j('l)S<)n's    lirst   article    in    the   l.iitl, 
lid  not  mention  Poetry  at  all.  —  jh.  j 


An     ()      I       r 
If  there  are  people  who  wish  to  make  money  in  an  easy  and 


lur  every   mUj 
umtsually  liberal  coi! 

If  you  will  call  at  our  « 
iiifuriii.ilioii.  lists  of  pinmos.  t 


will  give  ail 
full 


4 


THE   STRADIVARIUS   OF   PIANOS 

jij    nFTH    AVENUE 
NEW  YORK 


ANNOUNCEMENT 

The  April  number  will  contain  certain  notes  of  music  and  the 

theatre  for  which  there  is  no  room  this  month.  It  will  also  contain 
reproductions  of  drawings  by  Stanislaw  Szukalski;  stories  by  Francis 
Buzzell,  Ben  Hecht,  Aldous  Huxley;  studies  by  William  Carlos 
Williams;  poems  by  Wallace  Gould,  etc. 

Also,  if  we  are  by  that  time  far  enough  removed  from  the 
effulgence,  we  will  bring  forth  another  "idolatrous"  article  on 
Mary  Garden. 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

A  MAGAZINE  OF  THE  ARTS 

MAKING  WO  COMPROMISE   WITH   THE  PUBLIC  TASTE 


A  Prologue,  by  Williim  Carlos  Williams 
Drawings  by  Stanislaw  Szukalszki 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

THE    MAGAZINE   THAT    IS    READ    BY    THOSE 
WHO  WRITE  MHE  OTHERS 


Vol.  V.  APRIL   1919  No.    11. 

Prologue  William  Carlos  Williams 

Selections  from  "A  Drift  of  the  Year"    Wallace  Gould 
Advice  to  Maple  Trees  Maxwell  Bodenheim 

Dog  Eat  Dog  Ben  Hecht 

Snow  Scene:  Puppet  Booth  Mark  Turbyfill 

Six  Drawings  by  Stanislaw  Szukalski 
Ulysses,  Episode  IX  James  Joyce 

Mary  Olivier:  A  Life  May  Sinclair 

Notes  on  Music  and  the  Theatre  (and  the  Critics) 

Margaret  Anderson 

Criticism  in  Chicago 

As  One  Would  Not 

Susan  Glaspell's  New  Play 

Philip  Moeller's  "Moliere" 

Mrs.  Fiske  in  "Mis'  Nelly  of  N'Orleans" 

The  Philadelphia  Orchestra 

Arthur  Rubinstein 

"Pellas  et  Melisande"  at  the  French  Theatre 

Copyright,  1919,  by  Margaret  Anderson 

MARGARET  ANDERSON,   Editor 

EZRA   POUND,  London  Editor 

JULES   ROM  A  INS,   French   Editor 

24  West  Sixteenth  Street,  New  York 

Foreign  office: 

5  Holland  Place  Chambers,  London  W.  8. 

25c.  a  copy;  $2.50  a  year.  English  12/-  a  year. 

Abonnement  fr.  15  par  an. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  March  i6,  igij,  at  P.  O., 

New  York,  N.  Y.,  under  the  act  March  3,  1879. 

Published  monthly  by  Margaret  Anderson 


THE  LITTLE  REVIEW 

Vol.  V.  APRIL  1919  No.  Ik 


PROLOGUE 

William    Carlos    Williams 
The    Return    of    the    Sun 

Her  voice  was  like  rose-fragrance 

waltzing  in  the  wind. 
She  seemed  a  shadow,  stained  with 
shadow  colors, 
..     Swimming  through  waves  of  sunlight . 

The  sole  precedent  I  can  find  for  the  broken  style  of  my  pro- 
logue is  Longinus  on  the  Sublime,  and  that  one  far-fetched. 

When  my  mother  was  in  Rome  on  that  rare  journey  forever  to 
be  remembered,  she  lived  in  a  small  pension  near  the  Pincio  gar- 
dens. The  place  had  been  chosen  by  my  brother  as  one  notably 
easy  of  access,  being  in  a  quarter  free  from  confusion  of  traffic,  on 
a  street  close  to  the  park,  and  furthermore  the  tram  to  the  Amer- 
ican Academy  passed  at  the  corner.  Yet  never  did  my  mother  go 
3Ut  but  she  was  in  fear  of  being  lost.  By  turning  to  the  left  when 
she  should  have  turned  right,  actually  she  did  once  manage  to 
?o  so  far  astray  that  it  was  nearly  an  hour  before  she  extricated 
lerself  from  the  strangeness  of  every  new  vista  and  found  a  land- 
nark. 

There  has  always  been  a  disreputable  man  of  picturesque 
)ersonality  associated  with  this  lady.  Their  relations  have  been 
narked  by  the  most  rollicking  spirit  of  comradeship.  Now  it  has 
)een  William,  former  sailor  in  Admiral  Dewey's  fleet  at  Manila 
hen  Tom  O'Rourck  who  has  come  to  her  to  do  odd  jobs  and  to 
)e  cared  for  more  or  less  when  drunk  or  ill,  —  their  Penelope. 
Villiam  would  fall  from  the  grape  arbor  much  to  my  mother's 
imusement  and  delight,  and  to  his  blustering  discomfiture,  or  he 
rould  stagger  to  the  back  door  nearly  unconscious  from  bad  whis- 
ey.     There  she  would  serve  him  with  very  hot  and  very  strong 


The    Little    Review 


coffee,  then  *put  him  to  scrubbing  the  kitchen  floor,  pouring  into 
his  suddy-pail  half  a  bottle  of  ammonia  which  would  make  the  man 
gasp  and  water  at  the  eyes  as  he  worked  and  became  sober. 

■  She  has  always  been  incapable  of  learning  from  benefit  or  dis- 
aster. If  a  man  cheat  her  she  will  remember  that  man  with  a 
violence  that  I  have  seldom  seen  equaled,  but  so  far  as  that  could 
have  an  influence  on  her  judgment  of  the  next  man  or  woman  she 
might  be  living  in  an  Eden.  And  indeed  she  is,  an  improverished 
ravished  Eden  but  one  indestructible  as  the  imagination  itself 
Whatever  is  before  her  is  sufficient  to  itself  and  so  to  be  valued 
Her  meat  though  more  delicate  in  fiber  is  of  a  kind  with  that  o: 
Villon  and  La  Grosse  Margot: 

Vente,  gresle,  gelle,  j'ai  mon  pain  cuit! 
Carl  Sandburg  sings  a  ne^o  cotton  picker's  song  of  the  bo 
weevil.  Verse  after  verse  tells  what  they  would  do  to  the  insect 
They  propose  to  place  it  in  the  sand,  in  hot  ashes,  in  the  river  am 
other  unlikely  places  but  the  bol  weevil's  refrain  is  always:  "That'l 
be  ma  HOME!     That'll  be  ma  HOOME!" 

My  mother  is  given  over  to  frequent  periods  of  great  depres 
sion,  being  as  I  believe  by  nature  the  most  light-hearted  thing  i 
the  world.  But  there  comes  a  grotesque  turn  to  her  talk,  a  macabr 
anecdote  concerning  some  dream,  a  passionate  statement  abou 
death,  which  elevates  her  mood  without  marring  it,  sometimes  in 
most  startling  way. 

Looking  out  at  our  parlor  window  one  day  I  said  to  her:  "W 
see  all  the  shows  from  here,  don't  we,  all  the  weddings  and  fune: 
als?"  (They  had  been  preparing  a  funeral  across  the  street,  tl 
undertaker  was  just  putting  on  his  overcoat.)  She  replied:  "Fui 
ny  profession  that,  burying  the  dead  people.  I  should  think  the 
wouldn't  have  any  delusions  of  life  left."  W:  Oh  yes,  it's  mere! 
a  profession.  M:  Hm.  And  how  they  study  it!  They  s£ 
sometimes  people  look  terrible  and  they  come  and  make  them  loc 
fine.  They  push  things  into  their  mouths!  (Realistic  gesture).  'W 
Mama!     M:  Yes,  when  they  haven't  any  teeth. 

By  some  such  dark  turn  at  the  end  she  raises  her  story  oi 
of  the  commonplace:  Look  at  that  chair,  look  at  it!  (The  pla 
terers  had  just  left).  If  Mrs.  J  or  Mrs.  D  saw  that  they  wou! 
have  a  fit.     W:  Call  them  in,  maybe  it  will  kill  them.     M:     Bi 


The    Little     R  evieiv 


they're  not  near  as  bad  as  that  woman,  you  know,  her  husband 
was  in  the  chorus, — has  a  daughter  Helen.  Mrs.  B, — yes.  She  once 
wanted  to  take  rooms  here.  I  didn't  want  her.  They  told  me:  "Mrs. 
Williams,  I  heard  you're  going  to  have  Mrs.  B.  She  is  particu- 
lar. She  said  so  herself.  Oh  no!  Once  she  burnt  all  her  face 
painting  under  the  sink." 

Thus  seeing  the  thing  itself  without  forethought  or  after- 
thought but  with  great  intensity  of  perception  my  mother  loses  her 
bearings  or  associates  with  some  disreputable  person  or  translates 
a  dark  mood.  She  is  a  creature  of  great  imagination.  I  might 
say  this  is  her  sole  remaining  quality.  ^  She  is  a  despoiled,  moulted 
castaway  but  by  this  power  she  still  breaks  life  between  her  fingers. 

Once  when  I  was  lunching  with  Walter  Arensberg  at  a  small 
place  on  63rd  Street  I  asked  him  if  he  could  state  what  the  more 
modern  painters  were  about,  those  roughly  classed  at  that  time  as 
"cubists",  —  Gleisze,  Man  Ray,  Demuth,  Du  Champs  —  all  of 
whom  were  then  in  the  city.  He  replied  by  saying  that  the  only 
way  man  differed  from  every  other  creature  was  in  his  ability  to 
improvise  novelty  and,  since  the  pictorial  artist  was  under  discus- 
sion, anything  in  paint  that  is  truly  new,  truly  fresh  creation,  is 
good  art.  Thus  according  to  Du  Champs,  who  was  Arensberg's 
champion  at  the  time,  a  stained  glass  window  that  had  fallen  out 
and  lay  more  or  less  together  on  the  ground  was  of  far  greater  in- 
terest than  the  thing  conventionally  composed  in  situ. 

We  returned  to  Arensberg's  sumptuous  studio  where  he  gave 
further  point  to  his  remarks  by  showing  me  what  appeared  to  be 
the  original  of  Du  Champs  famous  Nude  Descending  a  Staircase. 
But  this,  he  went  on  to  say,  is  a  full-sized  photographic  print  of 
the  first  picture  with  many  new  touches  by  Du  Champs  himself 
and  so  by  the  technique  of  its  manufacture  as  by  other  means  it 
is  a  novelty! 

Led  on  by  these  enthusiasms  Arensberg  has  been  an  indefatigable 
worker  for  the  yearly  salon  of  the  Society  of  Independent  Artists, 
Inc.  I  remember  the  warmth  of  his  description  of  a  pilgrimage 
to  the  home  of  that  old  Boston  hermit  who,  watched  over  by  ai 
forbidding  landlady  (evidently  in  his  pay),  paints  the  cigar-box- 
cover-like  nudes  upon  whose  fingers  he  presses  actual  rings  with 


The    Little    Review 


glass  jewels  from  the  five  and  ten  cent  store. 

I  wish  Arensberg  had  my  opportunity  for  prying  into  jaded 
households  where  the  paintings  of  Mama's  and  Papa's  flowertime 
still  hang  on  the  walls.  I  purpose  that  Arensberg  be  commissioned 
by  the  Independent  Artists  to  scour  the  country  for  the  abortive 
paintings  of  those  men  and  women  who,  without  master  or  method, 
have  evolved  perhaps  two  or  three  unusual  creations  in  their  early 
years.  I  would  start  the  collection  with  a  painting  I  have  by  a 
little  English  woman,  A.  E.  Kerr,  1906,  that  in  its  unearthly  gaiety 
of  flowers  and  sobriety  of  design  possesses  exactly  that  strange 
freshness  a  spring  day  approaches  without  attaining,  an  expansion 
of  April,  a  thing  this  poor  woman  found  too  costly  for  her  posses- 
sion —  she  could  not  swallow  it  as  the  niggers  do  diamonds  in  the 
mines.  Carefully  selected  these  queer  products  might  be  housed 
to  good  effect  in  some  unpretentious  exhibition  chamber  across  the 
city  from  the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art.  In  the  anteroom 
could  be  hung  perhaps  photographs  of  prehistoric  rock-paintings 
and  etchings  on  horn:  galloping  bisons  and  stags,  the  hind  feet  of 
which  have  been  caught  by  the  artist  in  such  a  position  that  from 
that  time  until  the  invention  of  the  camera  obscura,  a  matter  of 
6000  years  or  more,  no  one  on  earth  had  again  depicted  that  most 
delicate  and  expressive  posture  of  running. 

The  amusing  controversy  between  Arensberg  and  Du  Champs 
on  one  side,  and  the  rest  of  the  hanging  committee  on  the  other 
as  to  whether  the  porcelain  urinal  was  to  be  admitted  to  the  Palace 
Exhibition  of  191 7  as  a  representative  piece  of  American  sculpture 
should  not  be  allowed  to  slide  into  oblivion. 

One  day  Du  Champ  decided  that  his  composition  for  that  day 
would  be  the  first  thing  that  struck  his  eye  in  the  first  hardware 
store  he  should  enter.  It  turned  out  to  be  a  pickaxe  which  he 
bought  and  set  up  in  his  studio.  This  was  his  composition.  To- 
gether with  Mina  Loy  and  a  few  others  Du  Champs  and  Arens- 
berg brought'  out  the  paper  The  Blind  Man  to  which  Robert  Carl- 
ton Brown,  with  his  vision  of  suicide  by  diving  from  a  high  win- 
dow of  the  Singer  Building,  contributed  a  few  poems. 

In  contradistinction  to  their  south,  Marianne  Moore's  state- 
ment to  me  at  the  Chatham  parsonage  one  afternoon  —  my  wife 
and  I  were  just  on  the  point  of  leaving  —  sets  up  a  north:     My 


The    Little    Review 


Avork  has  come  to  have  just  one  quality  of  value  in  it:  I  will 
not  touch  or  have  to  do  with  those  things  which  I  detest.  In 
this  austerity  of  mood  she  finds  sufficient  freedom  for  the  play  she 
chooses.  A  short  tJme  before,  at  the  tea  table,  her  mother  had  re- 
marked in  that  soft  but  keen-edged  drawl  of  hers:  Marianne  is  still 
in  the  conglomerate  stage.  "I  don't  see  how  you  so  successfully 
sustain  your  image,"    Marianne  once  said  to  me  in  a  letter. 

Of  all  those  writing  poetry  in  America  at  the  time  she  was 
here  Marianne  Moore  was  the  only  one  Mina  Loy  feared.  By  di- 
\ergent  virtues  these  two  women  have  achieved  freshness  of  pre- 
sentation, novelty,  freedom,  break  with  banality. 

WTien  ^largaret  Anderson  published  my  first  Improvisations 
Ezra  Pound  wrote  me  one  of  his  hurried  letters  in  which  he  urged 
me  to  give  some  hint  by  which  the  reader  of  good  will  might  come 
at  my  intention. 

Before  Ezra's  permanent  residence  in  London,  on  one  of  his 
trips  to  America  —  brought  on  I  think  by  an  attack  of  jaundice  — 
he  was  glancing  through  some  book  of  my  father's.  "It  is  not 
necessary,"  he  said,  "to  read  everything  in  a  book  in  order  to 
-peak  intelligently  of  it."  "Don't  tell  everybody  I  said  so,"  he 
idded. 

During  this  same  visit  my  father  and  he  had  been  reading  and 
iiscussiag  poetry  together.  Pound  has  always  liked  my  father. 
"I  of  course  like  your  Old  Man  and  I  have  drunk  his  Goldwasser." 
They  were  hot  for  an  argument  that  day.  My  parent  had  been 
holding  forth  in  downright  sentences  upon  my  own  "idle  nonsense" 
when  he  turned  and  became  equally  vehement  concerning  something 
Ezra  had  written:  what  in  heaven's  name  Ezra  meant  by  "jewels" 
in  a  verse  that  had  come  between  them.  These  jewels,  rubies,  sap- 
l)hires.  amethysts  and  what  not,  Pound  went  on  to  explain  with 
ureat  determination  and  care,  were  the  backs  of  books  as  they 
-tood  on  a  man's  shelf.  "But  why  in  heaven's  name  don't  you  say 
•  •  then?"  was  my  father's  triumphant  and  crushing  rejoinder. 

The  letter:    .   .   .     "God  knows  I  have  to  work  hard  enough 

to   escape,  not   propaganda,  but  getting  centered    in   propaganda. 

\iid  America?     What  the  h--l  do  you  a  blooming  foreigner  know 

!)oul  the  ^lace.     Your  pore  only  penetrated  the  edge,  and  you've 


The    Little    Review 


never  been  west  of  Upper  Darby,  or  the  Maunchunk  switchback. 

"Would  H.,  with  the  swirl  of  the  prairie  wind  in  her  underwear, 
or  the  virile  Sandburg  recognize  you,  an  effete  easterner  as  a  REAL 
AMERICAN?    INCONCEIVABLE!   !  !   !  ! 

"My  dear  boy  you  have  never  felt  the  woop  of  the  PEEraries, 
You  have  never  seen  the  projecting  and  protuberent  Mts.  of  the 
Sierra  Nevada.     WOT  can  you  know  of  the  country? 

"You  have  the  naive  credulity  of  a  Co.  Claire  emigrant.  But  I 
(der  grosse  Ich)  have  the  virus,  the  bacillus  of  my  land  in  my 
blood,  for  nearly  three  bleating  centuries. 

"(Bloody  snob,     'eave  a  brick  at  'im!   !   !)  ... 

"I  was  very  glad  to  see  your  wholly  incoherent  unamerican 
poems  in  the  L.  R. 

"Of  course  Sandburg  will  tell  you  that  you  miss  the  'big  drifts,' 
and  Bodenheim  will  object""  to  your  not  being  sufficiently  decadent. 

"You  thank  your  blomin  gawd  you've  got  enough  Spanish 
blood  to  muddy  up  your  mind,  and  prevent  the  current  American 
ideation  from  going  through  it  like  a  blighted  collander. 

"The  thing  that  saves  your  work  is  opacity,  and  don't  forget 
it.  Opacity  is  NOT  an  American  quality.  Fizz,  swish,  gabble  and 
verbiage,  these  are  echt  Americanisch. 

"And  alas,  alas,  poor  old  Masters.     Look  at  Oct.  Poetry." 

Let  me  indulge  the  American  habit  of  quotation:      ^ 

"Si  le  cosmopolitisme  litteraire  gagnait  encore  et  qu'if  reussit 
a  etaindre  ce  que  les  difference  de  race  ont  allume  de  haine  de 
sang  parmi  les  hommes,  j'y  verrais  un  gain  pour  la  civilisation  et 
pour  I'humanite  tout  entiere."    . 

"L'amour  excessif  et  exclusif  d'une  patrie  a  pour  immediat 
corrollair  I'horreur  des  patries  etrangeres.  Non  seulment  on  craint 
de  quitter  la  jupe  de  sa  maman,  d'aller  voir  comment  vivent  les 
autres  hommes,  de  se  meler  a  leur  luttes.  de  partager  leur  travaux, 
non  seulment  on  reste  chez  soi,  mais  on  finit  par  fermer  sa  porte" 

"Cette  foilie  gagne  certains  litterateurs  et  le  meme  professeur, 
en  sortant  d'expliquer  le  Cid  ou  Don  Juan,  redige  de  gracieuses 
injures  contre  Ibsen  et  I'influenc,  helas  trop  illusoire,  de  son  cevre 
l)ourtain  toute  de  lumiere  et  de  beaute."  et  cetra.  Lie  down  and 
compose  yourself.  • 


T  h-e    Lit  tie    Review 


I  like  to  think  of  the  Greeks  as  setting  out  for  the  colonies 
an  Sicily  and  the  Italian  Peninsula.  The  Greek  temperament  lent 
itself  to  a  certain  symmetrical  sculptural  phase  and  to  a  fat  poetical 
balance  of  line  that  produced  important  work,  but  I  like  better  the 
Greeks  setting  their  backs  to  Athens.  The  ferment  was  always 
richer  in  Rome,  the  dispersive  explosion  was  always  nearer,  the 
influence  carried  further  and  remained  hot  longer.  Hellenism,  es- 
pecially the  modern  sort,  is  .too  staid,  too  chilly,  too  little  fecunda- 
tive  to  impregnate  my  world. 

Hilda  Doolittle  before  she  began  to  write  poetry  or  at  least 
before  she  began  to  show  it  to  anyone  would  say:  "You're 
not  satisfied  with  me.  are  you  Billy?  There's  something  lacking, 
isn't  there?''  When  I  was  with  her  my  feet  always  seemed  to  be 
sticking  to  the  ground  while  she  would  be  walking  on  the  tips  of 
the  grass  stems. 

Ten  years  later  as  assistant  editor  of  the  Egoist  she  refers  to 
my  long  poem,  "March",  which,  thanks  to  her  own  and  her  hus- 
band's friendly  attentions,  finally  appeared  there  in  a  purified  form: 

14  Aug.  1916 
Dear  Bill:- 

I  trust  you  will  ^ot  hate  me  for  wanting  to  delete  from 
your  poem  all  the  flippancies.  The  reason  I  want  to  do 
this  is  that  the  beautiful  lines  are  so  very  beautiful  —  so  in 
the  tone  and  spirit  of  your  Postude — (which  to  me  stands, 
a  Nike,  supreme  among  your  poems).  I  think  there  is  real 
beauty  —  and  real  beauty  is  a  rare  and  sacred  thing  in 
this  generation  —  in  all  the  pyramid,  Ashur-ban-i-pal  bits 
and  in  the  Fiesole  and  in  the  wind  at  the  very  last.  .  .  . 

I  don't  know  what  you  think,  but  I  consider  this  busi- 
ness of  writing  a  very  sacred  thing!  —  I  think  you  have 
the  "spark,"  am  sure  of  it,  and  when  you  speak  direct  are 
a  poet.  I  feel  in  the  hey-ding-ding  touch  running  through 
your  poem  a  derivitiive  tendency  which,  to  me,  is  not  you 
—  not  your  very  self.  It  is  as  if  you  were  ashamed  of  your 
Spirit,  ashamed  of  your  inspiration!  —  as  if  you  mocked 
at  your  own  song.  It's  very  well  to  mock  at  yourseilf  —  it 
is  a  spiritual  sin  to  mock  at  your  inspiration  — 

Hilda. 


The    Little    Review 


Oh  well,  all  this  might  be  very  disquieting  were  it  not  that  ^ 
"sacred"  has  lately  been  discovered  to  apply  to  a  point  of  arrest 
where  stabilization  has  gone  on  past  the  time.  There  is  nothing 
sacred  about  literature,  it  is  damned  from  one  end  to  the  other. 
There  is  nothing  in  literature  but  change  and  change  is  mockery. 
I'll  write  whatever  I  damn  please,  whenever  I  damn  please  and  as 
I  damn  please  and  it'll  be  good  if  the  authentic  spirit  of  change  is 
on  it. 

But  in  any  case  H.  D.  misses  the  entire  intent  of  what  I  am 
doing,  no  matter  how  just  her  remarks  concerning  that  particular 
poem  happen  to  have  been.  The  hey-ding-ding  touch  was  derivi- 
tive  but  it  filled  a  gap  that  I  did  not  know  how  better  to  fill  at  the 
time.  It  might  be  said  that  that  touch  is  the  prototype  of  the 
improvisations. 

It  is  to  the  inventive  imagination  we  look  for  deliverance 
from  every  other  misfortune  as  from  the  desolation  of  a  flat  Hel- 
lenic perfection  of  style.  What  good  then  to  turn  to  art  from  the 
'atavistic  religionists,  from  a  science  doing  slavey  service  upon  gas 
engines,  from  a  philosophy  tangled  in  a  miserable  sort  of  dialect 
that  means  nothing  if  the  full  power  of  initiative  be  denied  at  the 
beginning  by  a  lot  of  baying  and  snapping  scholiasts?  If  the  in- 
ventive imagination  must  look,  as  I  think,  to  the  field  of  art  for  its 
richest  discoveries  today  it  will  best  make  its  way  by  compass  and 
follow  no  path. 

But  before  any  material  progress  can  be  accomplished  there 
must  be  someone  to  draw  a  discriminating  line  between  true  and 
false  values. 

The  true  value  is  that  peculiarity  which  gives  an  object  a 
character  by  itself.  The  associational  or  sentimental  value  is  the 
false.  Its  imposition  is  due  to  lack  of  imagination,  to  an  easy  lateral 
sliding.  The  attention  has  been  held  too  rigid  on  the  one  plane 
instead  of  following  a  more  flexible,  jagged  resort.  -  It  is  to  loosen 
the  attention,  my  attention  since  I  occupy  part  of  the  field,  that  I 
write  these  improvisations.     Here  I  clash  with  Wallace  Stevens. 

The  imagination  goes  from  one  thing  to  another.  Given  many 
things  of  nearly  totally  divergent  natures  but  possessing  one-thous- 
andth- part  of  a  quality  in  common,  provided  that  be  new,  distin- 
guished, these  things  belong  in  an  imaginative  category  and  not  in 


The    Little    Review 


a  gross  natural  array.  To  me  this  is  tiiie  gist  of  the  whole  matter. 
It  is  easy  to  fall  under  the  spell  of  a  certain  mode,  especially  if  it  ibe 
remote  of  origin,  leaving  thus  certain  of  its  members  essential  to 
a  reconstruction  of  its  significance  permanently  lost  in  an  impene- 
trable mist  of  time.  But  the  thing  that  stands  etemally  in  the 
way  of  really  good  writing  is  always  one:  the  virtual  impossibility 
of  lifting  to  the  imagination  those  things  which  lie  under  the  direct 
scrutiny  of  the  senses,  close  to  the  nose.  It  is  this  difficulty  that 
sets  a  value  upon  all  works  of  art  and  makes  them  a  necessity. 
The  senses  witnessing  what  is  immediately  before  them  in  detail 
see  a  finality  which  they  cling  to  in  despair,  not  knowing  which 
way  to  turn.  Thus  the  so-called  natural  or  scientific  array  becomes 
fixed,  the  walking  devil  of  modern  life.  He  who  even  nicks  the 
solidity  of  this  apparition  does  a  piece  of  work  superior  to  that 
of  Hercules  when  he  cleaned  the  Augean  stables. 

Stevens'  letter  applies  really  to  my  book  of  poems,  "Al  Que 
Quiere"  (which  means,  by  the  way.  To  Him  Who  Wants  It),  but 
the  criticism  he  makes  of  that  holds  good  for  each  of  the  Improvi- 
sations if  not  for  the  work  as  a  whole. 

It  begins  with  a  postscript  in  the  upper  left  hand  comer:  "I 
tliink,  after  all,  I  should  rather  send  this  than  not,  although,  it  is 
quarrelsomely  full  of  my  own  ideas  of  discipline. 

April  9 
My  dear  Williams: 

What  strikes  me  most  about  the  poems  themselves 
is  their  casual  character  .  .  .  Personally  I  have  a  distaste 
for  miscellany.  It  is  one  of  the  reasons  I  do  not  bother 
about  a  book  myself. 

(Wallace  Stevens  is  a  fine  gentleman  whom  Cannell 
likened  to  a  Pennsylvania  Dutchman  who  has  suddenly  be- 
come aware  of  his  habits  and  taken  to  ''society"  in  self- 
defense.  He  is  always  immaculately  dressed.  I  don't  know 
why  I  should  always  associate  him  in  my  mind  with  an  im- 
aginary image  I  have  of  Ford  Madox  Hueffer) . 

.  .  .  My  idea  is  that  in  order  to  carry  a  thing  to  the 
extreme  necessity  to  convey  it  one  has  to  stick  to  it;  ... 
Given  a  fixed  point  of  view,  realistic,  imagistic  or  what  you 


10  The    Little    Review 


will,  everything  adjusts  itself  to  that  point  of  view;  and 
the  process  of  adjustment  is  a  world  in  flux,  as  it  should 
be  for  a  poet.  But  to  fidget  with  points  of  view  leads 
always  to  new  beginnings  and  incessant  new  beginnings 
lead  to  sterility. 

(This  sounds  like  Sir  Roger  de  Coverly) 

A  single  manner  or  mood  thoroughly  matured  and 
exploited  is  that  fresh  Ihing  .  .  .  etc. 

One  has  to  keep  looking  for  poetry  as  Renoir  looked 
for  colors  in  old  walls,  old  wood-work  and  so  on. 

Your  place  is 

—  among  children 
Leaning  around  a  dead  dog. 
A  book  of  that  would  feed  the  hungry  .  .  , 

Well  a  book  of  poems  is  a  damned  serious  affair.  I 
am  only  objecting  that  a  book  that  contains  your  particular 
quality  should  contain  anything  else  and  suggesting  that 
if  that  quality  were  carried  to  a  communicable  extreme,  in 
intensity  and  volume,  etc  ...  I  see  it  all  over  the  book, 
in  your  landscapes  and  portraits,  but  dissipated  and  ob- 
scured. Bouquets  for  brides  and  Spencerian  compliments 
for  poets.  .  .  There  are  a  very  few  men  who  have  anything 
native  in  them  or  for  whose  work  I'd  give  a  Bolshevic 
ruble  .  .  .  But  I  think  your  tantrums  not  half  mad 
enough. 

(I  am  not  quite  clear  about  the  last  sentence  but  I 
presume  he  means  that  I  do  not  push  my  advantage 
through  to  an  overwhelming  decision.  What  would  you 
have  me  do  with  my  Circe,  Stevens,  now  that  I  have 
double-crossed  her  game, — marry  her?  It  is  not  what 
Odysseus  did). 

I  return  Pound's  letter.  .  observe  how  in  everything 
he  does  he  proceeds  with  the  greatest  positiveness,  etc. 

Wallace  Stevens. 

(to  be  continued) 


The    Little    Review  n 


Selections  from  "A  Drift  of  the  Year 
Wallace    Gould 


IV 


Can't  you  return,  Aurora? 

Can't  you  return,  this  gaping,  moaning  nig'ht,  to  come  to  me? 
This  night  is  but  a  sounding  space,  a  moaning  nothingness. 
The  stars  are  lil<e  the  bulging  eyes  of  those  who  wait  for 

happenings,  of  those  who  are  Wondering  where  you  are. 
The  moon,  withdrawn,  is  busy  with  her  old  affair,  her  slumbering 

boy. 

Can't  you  return,  Aurore? 
Once,  in  the  autumn  of  the  last  dead  year, 
I  spent  a  sunset  dreaming  of  just  you  — 
a  dream  as  pure  as  prayer. 
I  lingered  on  the  Mall 

at  Brunswick,  the  spacious,  old,  old  Mall.  The  leaves  of  the  dozens 
of  elms  along  the  promenades  were  yellow  —  pensive,  helpless 
little  things  —  great  masses  of  them  transformed  into  glimmering 
amber  by  the  yellow  light  from  an  orb  of  boiling  gold  in  the  west, 
the  glare  from  which  orb  streamed  through  and  beneath  the  bran- 
ches and  across  the  lawns  of  the  Mall  to  the  windows  of  the  time- 
somber  mansions  on  the  farther  side,  there  pausing  to  look  back 
upon  its  past.  Each  window  sent  back  a  flood  of  boiling  gold,  west- 
ward, toward  the  source.  The  gray,  Gothic  church  on  the  campus 
rise,  behind  its  yellow  elms,  reminded  me  of  an  aged  grande  dame 
peering  out  from  her  golden  galoon.  Even  the  trunks  of  the  elms, 
far  and  near,  caught  the  metallic  luster  and  the  lawns  so  spread 
with  poor  little  yellow  leaves  were  of  golden  plush.  The  air,  though 
nervous,  was  quiet.  The  winds  were  waiting  for  you  —  and  you 
came,  along  a  promenade,  through  the  heavy  golden  stillness,  and 
sat  beside  me. 

Time  is  a  most  inexorable  boor. 

Your  very  name  puts  raiment  on  its  bones 

and  mine'  a  cane  into  its  scrawny  claw, 


^2  The     Little     Review 


and  still  it  dares  forbid  that  we  may  smoke 
a  cigarette  or  two,  or,  better  still,' 
perha]^3.  that  we  may  hold  an  hand,  or  two. 

Dead  sybil  of  Nohant,  I  understand. 

I  understand  because  we  are  alike. 

They  dropped  away  or  stood  at  d'stances, 

deafened  or  angered  by  the  oracles 

of  being  —  all  those  weaklings  whom  you  loved  — 

the  weaklier  hopeless  and  the  stronger  weak 

with  pride  —  impotent  giants,  muscle-bound.    ' 

We  are  alike,  dead  lady,  much  alike. 

VII 

It  is  all  over,  once  more. 

There  are  no  more  fogs  to  be  seen  in  the  southern  sk'es,  each 

dawn  —  the  lavender  fogs  that  have  rolled  along  in  masses, 

d'stant,  never  approaching. 
There  are  no  more  buds  to  open. 
Only  the  frost  flower  dares  to  open  its  eyes  on  the  world 

the  frost  flower,  puny  child  of  a  mother  too  old  to  bear. 
Out  from  the  north  the  water  fowl  come,  day  after  day,  through 

the  arid  azure.     Once,  I  saw  them  flying  before  the  moom 

Down  by  the  river,  all  summer,  a  sandpiper  glided  along  the 

beach  before  the  sand  pit.     He  has  gone. 
There  was  a  lonely  whippowil.     He  was  somewhere  in  the  darkness 

by  the  river,  perhaps  in  the  pines  by  the  ancient  tote  road.    He 

has  gone. 

There  are  no  more  loons  to  hoot  , 

throug-h  the  shimmering,  empty  nights. 
It  is  all  over,  once  more. 

XI.I 

It  was  a  moment  of  awe.    It  was  a  sudden  vision  of  a  starry  night, 
a  winter  night.     It  was  a  sudden  vision. 


The    Little    Review  j , 


It  was  like  a  wind  that  rumbles  down  from  the  north,  -by  night  and 
brings  no  storm.  •      ^    '   " 

'  'tnV"„er'''   '"■■  '  """""'■  '""■"^''^='''  ""''''"S  y^"  ''^"" 

I  Stood  like  a  king  by  his  ruined  city. 
There  were  no  voices  with  the  vision. 
There  was  space,  and  the  space  was  time. 
lliere  was  silence,  the  silence  of  space. 

e  memory  of  your  kisses  was  like  a  flight  of  water  fowl 

-  memory  of  your  words  was  like  a  meadow  in  late  September 

..  memory  of  your  deeds  was  like  a  path  that  is  overgrown.  *. 

'I  do  not  wonder  why  you  wrote.     I  do  not  care 
I  answer  you  as  I  would  scatter  seeds  — 
seeds  of  grass  upon  a  barren  grave. 

ADVICE  TO  MAPLE-TREES 

Maxwell  Bodenheim 

,  O  little  maple-trees, 

I  Slender  and  unkempt,  looking  with  shaggy  askance 

Upon  the  moon-spiked  solitude: 

-  O  little  maple-trees, 

■'  Growing  a  little  toward  the  sky  ■ 

z  That  touches  you  to  alll  eyes  save  your  own 

[^  iou  rattle  insistently  for  wings 

■  But  wings  could  never  tear  * 

The  stain  of  earth  from  your  feet  — 

The  earth  that  gnaws  at  you 

Until  your  wing-cries  strike  the  autumn  night. 

You  see,  with  me,  this  running  cloud 

Balancing  a  crescent  moon 

Upon  his  tawny  finger-tip. 

The  touch  of  your  desire,  or  its  fall, 

W'ould  but  be  symbols  of  an  equal  death. 


14  The    Little    Review 


W 


DOG  EAT  DOG 

Ben    Hecht 

E  were  in  a  fine  philosophical  mood,  my  friend  and  I,  and  we 
.  .  walked  in  the  avenue  with  portentous  and  sardonic  steps 
He  with  his  shoulders  lifted  and  his  apeish  head  wagging  slowl> 
from  side  to  side.  I  with  the  proper  Mona  Lisa  crook  to  my  lips 
Thus  men  walk  when,  as  inviolable  gods,  they  debate  the  puerilitie 
and  ironies  of  life.  , 

There  was  about  us  in  this  avenue  the  paganism  of  women 
buttocks  moving  under  adroit  silks,  of  round  warm  legs  flashmj 
their  curves  and  luscious  tints  in  the  sun,  of  pear-moulded  breast; 
dancing  beneath  tight  fabrics  Bodies  moving  slowly  toward  somi 
fantastic  carniivaH.  they  seemed:  faces  rouged  and  stencilled  for  subtl( 
and  priapic  rites.  Continuously  they  zig-zagged  by  us,  colored  hk 
totems,  a  shining  barbaric  procession  of  lusts  in  caricature.  Ih 
marvel  of  it  was  that  some  hallooing  buck  did  not  come  boundin 
into  this  avenue  and  seize  upon  these  legs  and  buttocks  and  breast 
that  promenaded  in  such  elaborate  and  piquant  masquerade  i 
thought  worthy  of  philosophers.  Here  under  the  tall  sunny  buildmg 
with  their  polished  windows,  here  walled  by  the  luxurious  dignit 
of  their  great  rectangular  faces,  what  a  saturnalian  rape  were  po; 
sible  What  a  dancing  and  a  shout'ng  and  a  rolling  about  with  tt 
Tom-Tom  of  the  traffic  hammering  out  its  quick,  delirious  monc 
tone  What  a  wild  racing  up  and  down  silk-strewn  pavements,  i 
and  out  of  marble-corridored  grottos.  What  an  insane  and  whm 
sical  burlesque  of  passion.  ,  •    i  . 

Alas  these  were  merely  the  unwindings  of  philosophical  fane 
Before  us  remained  the  vista  of  bobbing  faces  and  hidden  ui 
dulated  bodies  wedded  to  exotic  plumage  and  lushent  fabrics.  Fro 
these  corseted  nymphs  as  they  passed  issued  trailing  perfumes  th, 
fell  upon  the  nose  as  the  cunning  intimate  whispers  of  a  pander 
might  come  into  the  ear.  Toward  some  fantastic  carnival  th( 
might  be  destined  (there  are  still  boudoirs  in  the  world,  it  is  said 
but  their  faces  remained  as  Ihey  floated  by  a  succession  of  stencilh 
and  unchanging  blanks.  They  stared  now  into  the  beaming  wi 
dows  of  the" avenue  shops.  Herein  behind  sun-streaked  panels 
glass  lay  oriental  silks,  gold  and  green  and    turquoise;   Japane 


T  he    Little    Review  15 

brie  a  brae,  little  monsters  of  bronze,  black  and  vermillion  screens, 
scrolled  porcelains.  Here  also  they  saw  as  they  passed  leather 
elegancies,  little  black  velvet  boxes  of  jewels,  moon-white  silvers, 
platters  of  gold,  and  occasionally  grou}7S  of  waxen  manikins  gar- 
landed with  shining  fabrics  and  postured  in  simpering  mannerisms. 
Tired  of  these  windows  they  glanced  now  at  each  other  or  looked 
up  in  unimaginable  conversations  at  the  grey  faced,  carefully 
mustached  creatures  who  walked  at  their  side.  Delusions  all  of 
them.  Bodies  of  men  bathed  and  shaved  and  tailored  into  puppets 
of  commerce.  White  bodies  of  women  reduced  to  piquant  stuffing 
for  silks. 

iWe  walked,  my  friend  and  I,  with  sardonic  and  portentious 
steps  as  befit  the  stride  of  gods  who  dot  the  unending  processions 
of  the  little  greedy  half  dead.  To  our  left  the  rubber-tired  traffic 
purr^ed  and  beat  out  its  monotone,  the  whirling  white  and  black  of 
spokes  pirouetted  in  the  sun.  To  our  right  the  grave  and  elegant 
geometries  swooped  into  space.  And  having  walked  a  goodly  way 
■between  these  things  we  paused  and  my  friend  improved  the  occa- 
sion with  a  snort.  His  head,  as  he  stood  contemplating  the  vari- 
colored swarm  of  motion,  began  to  wag  with  more  deliberation,  his 
face  growing  pregnant  with  words.  By  these  animated  preliminary 
silences  did  my  friend  attune  the  spirit  of  his  listener  for  matters 
of  vast  and  symbolic  import.  The  darkness  of  his  face  grew  and 
he  raised  his  arm  with  a  slow  gesture  and  pointed  his  thumb  over 
his  shoulder  toward  the  west. 

"I  keep  thinking",  he  said,  ''I  keep  thinking  of  the  gangs  on 
the  west  side.    The  working  people.    The  immemorial  masses." 

The  ominous  drawl  of  his  words  and  the  manner  of  his  face, 
a  fixed  and  flintlike  convulsion,  weighted  this  thing  my  friend  said 
with  the  illusion  of  depth  and  sagacity  which  attended  the  most 
trivial  of  his  comments.  His  voice  continued,  a  voice  which  had 
about  it  the  quality  of  a  banjo  played  with  bewildering  slowness. 

"The  immemorial  masses  on  the  west  side,"  he  said,  "who  live 
in  stinking  houses  and  sweat  ten  hours  a  day  for  the  right  to  remain 
alive.  They're  coming  lin  this  street.  This  crowd  in  silk  can't 
hold  them  back  much  longer.  Look  at  them."  He  stared  into  the 
faces.  "Four  civilizations  have  died",  he  resumed,  "four  civiliza- 
tions have  died  because  the  gang  on  the  west  side  never  broke 


li  Tht    Little    Review 


through.  But  they're  coming  through  this  time.  When  F  see  all 
this  .  .  .  .  aJll  this  .  .  .  .  "  he  made  a  slow  contemptuous  gesture 
toward  the  vari-colored  swarm  about  us,  "I  know  the  stage  is  set 
for  the  great  act.  Wlhen  I  look  at  the  grey  and  painted  faces  and 
these  unharnessed  useless  bodies,  I  get  the  breath  of  the  gangs  on 
the  west  side  pushing  through." 

My  friend  paused  and  eyed  the  procession  in  the  avenue  with 
a  dark  and  curious  amusement.  For  there  was  a  strange  hate  in  the 
cerebrations  of  my  friend,  and  a  stranger  love.  He  moved  through 
the  day  like  some  grim  and  ominous  evanger  and  his  chuckles 
invariably  reminded  me  of  guillotines.  He  had  the  eyes  of  a  prophet, 
deep-set  smoky  eyes,  fastened  always  upon  distances,  and  his 
thought  was  like  a  slow  fume  thait  darkened  the  air  aJbout  him. 
That  afternoon  as  he  stood  facing  the  polite  and  repressed  bacchanal 
of  the  avenue  was  the  last  I  saw  of  him.  And  therefore  I  have  told 
of  it.  He  had  consented  to  walk  with  me  away  from  the  grimy 
factory-strewn  scenes  where  he  was  then  leading  a  strike  of  gar- 
ment workers. 

"The  immemorial  masses,"  he  chuckled  and  his  eyes  rested 
darkly  on  the  dapper  procession.  "This  crowd.  .  .  this  little  string 
of  marionettes.  .  .  can't  cheat  them  much  longer".  His  fingers 
rivited  my  elbow.  "I  get  the  breath  of  them,"  he  said,  "I  get  the 
breath  of  the  gangs  on  the  west  side  of  the  world  pushing  through 
into  the  sun." 

We  shook  hands  and  the  storm  of  his  thoughts  remained  like 
an  uncanny  shadow  about  me  as  he  passed  out  of  the  avenue. 
During  the  days  which  followed  my  friend's  name  appeared  often 
in  the  newspapers.  About  him  had  rallied  some  five  thousand  work- 
ers raising  a  great  cry  for  wages  and  leisure.  Once  I  went  to  the 
west  side  to  see  him  but  found  in  his  place  a  woman  who  spoke  of 
him  with  eagerness.  She  was  a  dark-eyed  creature  with  a  smoulder  in 
her  voice.  Walking  with  the  rouged  and  dapper  procession  in  the 
sunny  avenue  she  would  have  seemed  a  strayed  and  bewildered 
animal.  Here  amid  the  sagging  houses,  the  debris-covered  street, 
the  broken  walls,  her  spirit  was  a  lumiinousl  thing),  her  body  arose  from 
the  earth  with  the  bend  of  a  far  flung  defiance  to  her  head.  In  her 
eyes,  as  in  the  eyes  of  my  friend,  there  were  also  dark  prophecies. 
And  her  words  had  about  them  the  same  stillness,  the  same  curious 
air  of  consecration. 


The    Little    Review  17 


She  spoke  of  many  things,  of  my  friend,  of  poverty,  of  hovels 
in  which  men  and  women  decayed,  and  of  a  mysterious  dawn  that 
-  was  to  break  like  a  song  through  the  dark  places  of  the  world. 
\  When  she  spoke  of  my  friend  there  came  into  her  voice  an  intimacy 
.  and  an  awe.    Her  body  straightened  as  in  some  curious  salute.    Her 
eyes  largened  and  there  was  tumult  to  her.     Her  soul  seemed  to 
precipitate  itself  into  ■  embraces  unseen.     More  than  ever  she  would 
have  appeared  a  strayed  and  bewildered  animal  in  the  dapper  pro- 
cession of  the  sunny  avenue.    As  her  talk  moved  to  topics  beyond 
\  my  friend  her  intensity  changed  and  her  words  became  more  delib- 
j  erate.    She  emitted  them  slowly  and  it  was  almost  the  banjo  voice 
t  of  my  friend  that  spoke. 

"I  had  no  faith  until  I  met  him,"  she  said.     ''I  had  no  faith 
in  these  people.     But  now  they're  coming  through.     The  little  silk 

■  crowd  can't  cheat  us  much  longer.     We're  coming  through   this 

■  time.  The  feet  of  armies  have  walked  over  us  and  we  slept.  And 
the  little  silk  crowd  has  taken  our  blood  and  we  slept.  Four  civil- 
izations have  died  because  we  slept.  This  sleep  was  because  with- 
out faith  we  w^ere  without  souls.  But  now  we  have  faith  in  each 
other.  The  working  people  are  standing  together.  From  one  end 
of  the  world  to  the  other  we  have  the  faith  that  is  bringing  us  to 
our  feet  in  one  mighty  wave." 

In  her  words  was  a  quality  which  weighted  their  awkward 
f  rhetoric  with  a  compelling  power.  This  quality  remained  with  me 
after  I  left  her.  Faith.  .  .  the  faith  of  a  woman's  eyes  raised  in  the 
dark  of  a  church,  the  faith  of  a  man's  eyes  resting  in  awe  upon  a 
face  finer  and  slenderer  than  his  own,  the  faith  of  my  friend  and 
his  friend  amid  the  ancient  poverties  and  decays,  they  are  not  a 
part  of  philosophy.  And  yet  I  came  away  thinking  wistfully  of  the 
gods  that  corrupt  the  reason  of  the  ages.  It  is  after  all  a  lonely  and 
profitless  business  to  deny  these  gods.  The  faiths  that  boil  in  the 
souls  of  the  race,  the  vari-shaped  altars  tended  by  the  little  greedy 
half  dead,  there  is  in  them  perhaps  the  true  solace  for  those  who 
must  find  when  they  seek.  My  mood  of  that  day  on  the  avenue  was 
gone.  I  waflied  now  in  ragged  broken  streets  where  the  little  half 
dead  seem  to  be  moving  always  in  vast  and  merciless  defeat.  In 
these  streets  I  sought  the  faith  of  my  friend.  But  the  gods  as  ever 
eluded  me.     Here  was  merely  a  less  colored  masc^uerade  than  in 


i8  The    Little    Review 

the  avenue.  A  great  dea;l  of  soil  and  manure  is  needed  to  produce  a 
flower,  even  such  a  flower  as  civilization.  I  watched  the  strikers 
gathering  and  talking,  the  men  and  women  passing  with  intent  and 
burning  eyes,  the  half-naked  children  shrieking  over  the  dirty 
pavements  and  I  came  away  with  the  memory  of  a  purposeless, 
meaningless  fever  throbbing  in  the  veins  of  the  day. 

And  my  friend  died  in  this  manner. 

The  summer  sun  had  loosened  the  stenches  of  the  alleys  when 
Nolan  awoke.  I  have  been  in  Nolan^s  home  and  have  seen  his 
wife  moving  about  in  the  morning  cooking  the  breakfast  for  the 
seven  of  them.  Her  body  is  fat  with  the  humanless  contour  of 
a  spider  and  her  eyes  seem  always  to  be  thinking  of  bruises.  From 
morning  until  night  she  moves  about  scrubbing,  cooking,  washing, 
straightening,  feeding  children,  walking  to  grocery  stores  and  butch- 
er shops,  haggling  over  pennies.  The  children  scream  and  brawl 
and  chase  each  other  through  lots  and  alleys.  Just  before  noon 
Nolan  sits  up  in  his  dark  bitter-smelling  bed  and  stretches  his  arms. 

On  the  morning  of  the  day  in  which  my  friend  died,  Nolan  sat 
up  in  his  bed  and  stretched  his  arms.  At  noon  he  emerged  in  his 
stocking  feet  and  walked  about  in  the  kitchen  of  his  home,  his 
suspenders  hanging  in  two  purple  loops  from  the  waist  of  his  droop- 
ing trousers.  He  was  a  tall  broad-shouldered  man  with  a  somewhat 
reddened  face.  His  face  usually  vigorous  and  genial  wore  a  frown 
whenever  he  moved  about  in  the  small  littered  rooms  of  his  home. 
He  ate  his  breakast  in  silence  and  listened  to  the  complaint  of  his 
woman,  a  complaint  which,  by  reason  of  its  antiquity,  fell  now  like 
meaningless  noise  on  his  ears.  It  was  more  money  for  the  doctor, 
his  woman  needed,  more  money  for  the  girl  who  must  have  another 
dress,  more  money  for  the  butcher.  A  depressing  racket,  this  an- 
cient complaint  of  his  woman,  a  thing  which  went  on  summer  and 
winter.  Nolan  ate  and  the  frown  of  his  face  grew  deeper.  In 
silence  he  moved  into  the  bitter-smelling  bedroom  and  put  on  his 
blue  uniform  and  his  leather  puttees.  It  was  the  uniform  of  the 
city's  mounted  police,  kept  by  Nolan  in  some  mysterious 
manner  immune  from  the  grime  and  the  squalor  of  his  home. 

In  this  blue  transforming  uniform,  freshly  shaved  and  his  neck 
ornamented  with  a  white  band  of  cpllar,  Nolan  waited  patiently 


T  h  e    L  i  1 1 1  e    R  e  V  i  ew  19 

for  his  woman  to  cease  her  ancient  complaint.  Sixteen  years  of 
honest  and  faithful  service  were  Nolan's,  and  yet  the  complaint  of 
his  woman  had  grown  with  each  of  these  years,  even  as  the  smell 
of  his  home  had  thickened  and  acquired  a  personality. 

"It'll  be  pay  day  tomorrow,"  said  Nolan  at  length.  "And  what 
good'll  that  be,"  said  his  woman;  rubbing  at  her  round  fat  face  with 
her  apron.  "Maybe  you  think  you're  somebody  in  them  clothes  of 
yours.  But  will  you  look  at  the  bills  from  the  doctor  and  the 
'butcher."  And  there  followed  the  depressing  racket  that  seemed 
to  Nolan  an  inevitable  companion  of  the  musty  bitter  smell  which 
stuffed  his  home.  "It'll  be  pay  day  tomorrow,"  said  Nolan  and  he 
walked  out  of  his  home.  Down  the  street  he  walked,  and  thought 
as  bitter  as  the  smell  of  his  bed  remained  in  his  brain.  Vague 
thought  without  outline,  it  was.  He  spat  as  he  walked  and  cursed 
under  his  breath. 

There  was  a  horse  in  the  police  barns  that  was  Nolan's,  a 
shining  brown  upstanding  horse  that  whinnied  at  him  as  he  came 
near.  In  silence  Nolan  placed  the  saddle  on  his  horse  and  lifted 
himself  into  it.  Into  the  street  he  jogged,  his  ibroad-shouldered 
figure  in  its  resplendent  uniform  sitting  stiff  and  careless  atop  the 
^lively  horse,  his  eyes  frowning  from  under  his  ornamented  cap.  Rid- 
ing so  on  his  horse  Nolan  glowered  down  upon  the  traffic  that  grew, 
thicker  about  him.  Men  jumped  out  of  his  way  and  wagons  drew 
tactfully  aside  to  give  him  unmolested  passage.  This  sometimes 
brought  cheer  into  Nolan's  heart.  But  now  the  sound  of  his  wo- 
man's complaint  was  in  his  ears,  and  the  bitter  smell  of  his  home 
lay  like  rust  in  his  nose.  And  if  he  was  strong  and  broad  and  could 
ride  along  on  his  horse  now,  what  in  h— 1  would  he  be  doing  to  stop 
the  complaint  of  his  woman  when  he  had  grown  old? 

Nolan  came  out  of  the  squad  room  and  remounted.  He  had 
his  orders  for  the  day.  He  rode  off  at  a  leisurely  pace  toward  the 
west  side.  There  was  a  strike  there  and  trouble  and  Nolan  rode  to 
keep  the  city  from  coming  to  harm. 

There  were  a  thousand  men  and  women  gathered  in  the  street. 
Policemen  stood  before  the  doors  of  the  black,  many-windowed  fac- 
tory building  which  stretched  its  flat  face  down  the  block.  The 
crowd  in  the  street  shuffled  about  over  the  pavements  in  compact 
little  groups,  crying  out  words,  waving  their  arms,  their  faces  mov- 
ing in  tiny  grimaces.    They  were  the  strikers  that  my  friend  was 


20  T he    Li t  tl e    Review 

leading,  stunted  little  men  in  humorously  misfitting  clothes,  girls 
in  heavy  sagging  dresses  and  grimy  waists.  They  swarmed  about, 
voluble  and  excited.  Nolan  and  seven  horsemen  Hike  Ihimself 
watched  them  from  the  end  of  the  street.  The  eight  of  them  sat 
stiff  and  straight  on  their  horses  and  frowned.  Nolan  turned 
abruptly  to  one  of  them  and  said,  "What  the  h--l,  they're  going 
to  march.     They  ain't  got  a  permit  for  marching." 

They  were  going  to  march.  There  was  a  man  who  stood  on  a 
box  in  the  center  of  the  street  surrounded  by  a  growing  mass  of 
faces.  He  waved  his  arms  and  cried  out  in  a  slow  far-reaching 
voice.  This  man  was  my  friend.  Nolan  watched  him  with  the 
frown  deepening  in  his  face.  Slowly  as  my  friend  cried  out  the 
scattered  crowd  seemed  to*  unravel  itself  into  ranks.  Symmetrical 
rows  of  faces  appeared,  one  behind  the  other.  Men  began  to  shout 
and  push  other  men.  There  was  quick,  determined  tumult.  The 
noise  then  began  to  die  away.  In  the  silence  that  came  into  the 
street  a  long  thick  mass  of  men  and  women  stood  with  their  eyes 
raised  toward  my  friend  and  a  curious  eager  light  in  their  faces. 

"They're  going  to  march,"  said  Nolan  to  the  horsemen  around 
him,"  and  they  ain't  got  a  permit." 

He  spurred  his  horse  up  to  my  friend  who  still  stood  on  his 
box  in  the  center  of  the  street. 

"Cut  that,"  said  Nolan,  "You  ain't  got  a  permit  to  march." 

My  friend  looked  at  him  and  smiled.  The  ranks  of  men  and 
women  sagged  and  almost  disappeared.  The  rows  of  faces  became 
circles  and  half  circles.  iBut  my  friend  on  his  little  box  threw  up 
his  arms. 

"March,"  he  cried  out,  "Comrades,  mark  time.  We  march  to 
the  city  hall.  We  march  through  the  avenues.  We  will  give  the 
little  silk  crowds  a  look  at  us." 

The  rattle  and  thud  of  feet  striking  the  street  sounded.  The 
long  thick  mass  grew  mysteriously  straight.  The  rows  of  faces 
flashed  dully  in  even  lines. 

"Into  the  sun,"  cried  my  friend.  "Comrades  forward.  .  .  . 
march." 

The  street  moved.  It  lengthened  and  swayed.  The  beat  of 
feet  like  the  long-drawn  rattle  of  a  drum  came  into  the  air.  Slowly, 
expanding  and  contracting,  their  shoulders  swaying,  the  regiment  of 
motionless  faces  and  leaping  eyes  groped  for  a  rhythm.     It  came 


The    Little    Review  21 

and  the  regiment  marched.  Down  the  street  it  moved,  an  unwav- 
ering indomitable  mass  of  swinging  arms  and  legs.  Above  the 
rhythmic  lift  of  its  heads  appeared  banners  red  and  black  and  in- 
scribed with  the  words,  "Labor"  ....  "Give  Us  Bread".  .  .  . 

Nolan  and  his  horsemen  watched  the  swinging  column  ap- 
l)roach.  For  a  moment  he  stared  at  it  fascinated.  The  thought  of 
his  woman's  complaint  had  gone  from  his  head  and  with  it  the 
smell  that  had  ridden  in  his  nose.  Under  his  bright  blue  uniform 
he  felt  himself  grow  warm  and  curiously  alive.  The  blood  swept 
through  his  body  and  a  sweat  like  that  of  a  strong  juice  came  out 
of  him.    Oaths  rushed  from  his  lips  and  a  lust  whirled  his  head. 

"Come  on,"  he  yelled  waving  his  arm,  and  his  brown  upstand- 
ing horse  leaped  forward.  My  friend  and  his  immemorial  masses 
were  marching  and  Nolan  and  his  seven  horemen  were  rushing 
down  the  street  into  the  face  of  them.  As  the  horses  came  nearer 
my  friend  grew  large  in  front  of  the  regiment.  His  voice  arose 
clear  and  strident  above  the  murmuring  behind  him  and  the  wild 
sharp  racket  of  the  oncoming  'horses  before  him. 

"Comrades,"  he  shouted,"  march,  comrades.  .  .  Hold  firm.  .  . 
and  march.  .  .  " 

Nolan,  his  eyes  swimming,  heard  the  w^ords  and  tugged  at  a 
reign  in  his  hand.  His  brown  leaping  horse  turned  lightly.  Rear- 
ing and  plunging  it  shot  forward  and  its  iron  hoofs  cracked  down 
upon  the  head  of  the  man  who  had  shouted  the  command.  The 
thick  ranks  of  the  marchers  disappeared  and  became  a  swarm  of 
circling  faces  that  melted  into  walls  and  vanished  into  little  run- 
ning groups.  In  the  midst  of  the  street,  shouting  and  plunging, 
reared  the  seven  horsemen.  The  street  grew  empty.  Nolan 
bounced  and  cried  out  in  his  saddle  as  his  horse,  turning  and 
prancing,  leaped  again  and  again  upon  the  figure  it  had  brought 
down.  For  a  wild  thing  had  burst  in  Nolan's  heart  and  there  was 
the  music  of  a  hammering  drum  in  his  ears.  There  were  cries  and 
^hrieks  aibout  him  and  he  felt  a  hate  leaping  in  his  throat,  con- 
tracting the  muscles  of  his  body.  His  hand  fumbling  desperately 
had  taken  the  gun  from  his  pocket.  He  held  it  now  pointed  down 
at  the  figure  that  lay  under  the  dancing  feet  of  his  horse.  But  the 
figure  was  silent  and  motionless.  It  lay  in  a  curious  disjointed 
posture,  its  face  flattened  and  crushed  into  the  grime  of  the  street, 
its  body  bent  and  spread  out  like  a  wooden  thing. 


22  The    Little    Review 

Nolan  dismounted  and  stood  with  the  seven  horsemen  at  the 
curb.  They  were  all  thick-shouldered  men  with  strong  red  faces. 
They  held  guns  in  their  hands.  They  stood  with  their  jaws  thrust 
forward  and  with  glowering  eyes  stared  into  the  emptied  street. 

"We  got  them,"  said  Nolan  in  a  thick  voice.  "The  dirty 
bums,  a  pack  of  god-damned  sheenies  and  polacks." 

He  glanced  toward  the  figure  that  lay  with  its  face  crushed 
into  the  stone  in  the  center  of  the  street.  There  were  several 
other  figures  moving  feebly  on  their  bellies.  As  he  looked  a  wo- 
man came  rushing  toward  the  disjointed  figure  of  my  friend.  She 
hurled  herself  with  a  cry  across  the  twisted  body  and  lay  there  stiff .. 
and  silent. "  Nolan  walked  toward  her  ,Jhis  head  wagging  from  side 
to  side.  As  he  approached  she  raised  her  head  and  flung  her  fist 
toward  him. 

"You  killed  him.  You  murdered  him,"  she  shouted  at  Nolan, 
"But  it  won't  do  you  any  good.  You  can't  stop  us.  You  can't  cheat 
us  much  longer.  Do  you  hear?  God  strike  you  dead  you.  .  . 
you.  .  .  He's  dead.  He's  dead.  But  you  can't  keep  us  back.  Do 
you  hear?    We're  coming  through.  .  ." 

Nolan  stared  at  her  without  words,  looked  at  the  woman's 
fist  that  remained  shuddering  in  the  air.  And  in  the  voice  and  ges- 
ture of  the  body  there  was  something  that  brought  back  to  Nolan's 
thought  the  complaint  of  his  woman,  the  complaint  that  went  on 
from  day  to  day  ^or  sixteen  years.  He  darted  forward  and  seized 
this  one  by  the  shoulder. 

"Stop  your  yowling,"  he  cried.  "Get  up,  you  bum.  You're 
under  arrest." 

He  shook  her  as  she  followed  his  grip  to  her  feet.  The  smell 
of  her  brought  back  into  Nolan's  nose  the  smell  of  his  woman. 
He  struck  her  with  his  fist. 

"Come  on,"  he  cried,  his  voice  thick  with  the  violence  of  his 
blood.     "Get  along." 

For  a  moment  Nolan  and  the  woman  who  had  come  to  my 
friend  remained  staring  into  each  other's  eyes,  a  hate  burning  be- 
tween them  and  blackening  their  vision.  Their  faces,  twisted 
and  dark,  came  together.  There  were  no  words.  With  a  great 
jerk  Nolan  tumbled  the  woman  along  after  him  toward  the  curb. 

"Come  on,"  he  growled,  "If  you  try  to  break  away  I'll  club 
you  to  death." 


The    Little    Review  23 

Snow     Scene:     Puppet     Booth 

Mark    Turbyfill  1 

The  better  to  put  you  in  mood  for  the  lady, 

Conceive  your  rnind  an  arched  proscenium; 

Gather  full  the  night-drop, 

The  night-iblue  black — unplumbed. 

Shake  the  sound  of  snow-bells, 

And  float  down  the  gesture  of  five  white  lines 

With  little  glittering  note-heads  adorned. 

For  she  is  the  lady  painted  against  a  thin  China  saucer, 

Her  gown  a  broad  silken  petal, 

And,  as  a  phrase  slowly  spoken, 

Three  cloth-sewn  flowerets  at  the  hem. 

She  raises  her  bro-w  to  the  point  of  perplexity: 

".  .  .  .  The  murmuring  snow?  the  snow  murmuring?'* 

She   reasons:      "The   falling   snow,   —   yes.      But    I   have    never 

'heard  the  snow  murmur.    No." 

Yet  in  the  cold,  white  night, 

( For  all  the  doubts  of  the  lovely  lady) 

I  have  heard  them  sprinkling  down — 

The  little  White  snow-notes,  murmuring. 

With  a  faint,  silvery  sound. 

Or  like  the  murmur  of  her  silken  gown 

As  she  turned  away. 


24 


The    Little    Review 


Man  calculating 


Six    Drawings 
by 
STANISLAW  SZUKALSKI 


Monk 


26 


The    Lit  tit    Review 


Mask 


The    Little    Review 


27 


Lielit  and  Shadow 


2^ 


The    Little    Review 


•Sj^LOi 


Sketch 


The    Little    Review 


29 


Mammon 


30  The    Little    Review 

ULYSSES 

James    Joyce 

Episode   IX 

URBANE,  to  comfort  them,  the  quaker  librarian  purred: 
—  And  we  have,  have  we  not,  those  priceless  pages  of 
"Wilhelm  Meister"?     A  great  poet  on  a  great  brother  poet.     A 
hesitating  soul  taking  arms  aga'nst  a  sea  of  troubles,  torn  by  con- 
flicting doubts,  as  one  sees  in  real  life. 

He  came  a  step,  a  sinkapace,  forward  on  neatsleather  creaking 
and  a  step  backward  a  sinkapace  on  the  solemn  floor. 

A  noiseless  attendant,  setting  open  the  door  but  slightly  made 
him  a  noiseless  beck. 

Directly,  said  he,  creaking  to  go,  albeit  lingering.  The  beau- 
tiful ineffectual  dreamer  who  comes  to  grief  against  hard  facts.  One 
always  feds  that  Goethe's  judgments  are  so  true.  True  in  the 
larger  analysis. 

Twicreakingly  analysis  he  corantoed  off.  Bald,  most  zealous 
by  the  door  he  gave  his  large  ear  all  to  the  attendant's  words: 
beard  them:  and  was  gone. 

Two  left. 

—  Monsieur  de  la  Palice,  Stephen  sneered,  was  alive  fifteen 
minutes  before  his  death. 

—  Have  you  found  those  six  brave  medicals,  John  Eglinton 
asked  with  elder's  gall,  to  write  Paradise  Lost  at  your  dictation? 

Smile.     Smile  Cranly's  smile. 
First  he  tickled  her 
Then  he  patted  her 
Then  he  passed  the  female  catheter 
For  he  was  a  medical 

Jolly  old  medi 

I  feel  you  would  need  one  more  for  Hamlet.  Seven  is  dear 
to  the  mystic  mind.    The  shining  seven  W.  B.  calls  them. 

Glittereyed,  his  rufous  skull  close  to  his  greencapped  desklamp 
sought  the  face,  bearded  amid  darkgreener  shadow,  an  ollav,  holy- 
eyed.     He  laughed  low:  a  sizar's  laugh  of  Trinty:   unanswered. 


The    Little    Review  31 

Orchestral  Satan,  weeping  many  a  rood 
Tears  such  as  angels  weep. 
Ed  egli  avea  del  cul  fatto  trombetta. 
He  holds  my  jollies  hostage. 
Cranly's  eleven  true  Wicklowmen  to  free  their  sireland.     Gap- 
toothed  Kathleen,  her  four  beautiful  green  fields,  the  stranger  in 
her  house.    And  one  more  to  hail  him:  ave,  rabbi.     The  Tinahely 
twelve.     In  the  shadow  of  the  glen  he  cooes  for  them.     My  soul's 
youth  I  gave  him,  night  by  night.     Godspeed.     Good  hunting. 
Mulligan  has  my  telegram. 
Polly.     Persist. 

—  Our  young  Irish  bards,  John  Eglinton  censured,  have  yet 
to  create  a  figure  which  the  world  will  set  beside  Saxon  Shakes- 
peare's Hamlet  though  I  admire  him,  as  old  Ben  did,  on  this  side 
idolatry  . 

—  All  these  questions  are  purely  academic,  Russell  oracled 
out  of  his  shadow.  I  mean,  whether  Hamlet  is  Shakespeare  or 
James  I  or  Essex.  Clergyman's  discussions  of  the  historicity  of 
Jesus.  Art  has  to  reveal  to  us  ideas,  formless  spiritual  essences. 
The  supreme  question  about  a  work  of  art  is  out  of  how  deep  a 
life  does  it  spring.  The  painting  of  Gustave  Moreau  is  the  painting 
of  ideas.  The  deepest  poetry  of  Shelley,  the  words  of  Hamlet 
bring  our  mind  into  contact  with  the  eternal  wisdom,  Plato's  world 
of  ideas.  All  the  rest  is  the  speculation  of  schoolboys  for  school- 
boys. 

A.  E.  has  been  telling  some  interviewer.  Wall,  tarnation 
strike  me! 

—  The  schoolmen  were  schoolboys  first,  Stephen  said  super- 
politely.     Aristotle  was  once  Plato's  schoolboy. 

—  And  has  remained  so,  one  should  hope,  John  Eglinton  se- 
dately said.  One  can  see  him,  a  model  schoolboy  with  his  diploma 
under  his  arm. 

He  laughed  again  at  the  now  smiling  bearded  face. 

Formless  spiritual.  Father,  Son  and  Holy  Breath.  This  ver- 
ily is  that.    I  am  the  fire  upon  the  altar.    I  am  the  sacrificial  butter. 

Dunlop,  Judge,  the  noblest  Roman  of  them  all,  A.  E.,  Arval 
in  heaven  hight,  K.  H,  their  master.  Adepts  of  the  great  white 
lodge  always  watching  to  see  if  they  can  help.  The  Christ  with  the 
bridesister,  moisture  of  light,  born  of  a  virgin,  repentant  sophia, 


32  The    Little    Review 

departed  to  the  plane  of  buddhi.  Mrs.  Cooper  Oakley  once 
glimpsed  our  very  illustrious  sister  H.  P.  B's  elemental. 

O,  fie!  Out  on't!  Pjuiteujcl!  You  naughtn't  to  look,  missus, 
so  you  naugh't  when  a  lady's  ashowing  of  her  elemental. 

Mr.  Best  entered,  tall,  young,  mild,  light.  He  bore  in  his 
hand  with  grace  a  notebook,  new,  large,  clean,  bright. 

—  That  model  schoolboy,  Stephen  said,  would  find  Hamkt's 
musings  about  the  afterlife  of  his  princely  soul,  the  improbable, 
insignificant  and  undramatic  monologue,  as  shallow  as  Plato's. 

John  Eglinton,  frowning,  said,  waxing  wroth: 

—  Upon  my  word  it  makes  my  blood  boil  to  hear  anyone 
compare  Aristotle  with  Plato. 

—  Which  of  the  two,  Stephen  asked,  would  have  banished 
me  from  his  commonwealth? 

Unsheathe  your  dagger  definitions.  Streams  of  tendency  and 
eons  they  worship.  God:  noise  in  the  street:  very  peripatetic. 
Space:  what  you  damn  well  have  to  see.  Through  spaces  smaller 
than  red  globules  of  man's  blood  they  creepycrawl  after  Blake's 
buttocks  into  eternity  of  which  this  vegetable  world  is  but  a  shad- 
ow. Hold  to  the  now,  the  here,  through  which  all  future  plunges 
to  the  past. 

Mr.  Best  came  forward,  amiable,  towards  his  colleague. 

—  Haines  is  gone,  he  said. 

—  Is  he? 

—  I  was  showing  him  Jubainville's  book.  He's  quite  enthusi- 
astic, don't  you  know,  about  Hyde's  "Lovesongs  of  Connacht." 
I  couldn't  bring  him  in  to  hear  the  discussion.  He's  gone  to  Gill's 
to  buy  it. 

Bound  thee  forth,  my  booklet,  quick 
To  greet  the  callous  public 
Writ,  I  ween,  'twas  not  my  wish 
In  lean  unlovely  English.  ■ 

—  The  peatsmoke  is  going  to  his  head,  John  Eglinton  opined. 
We  feel  in  England.     Penitent  thief.     Gone.     I  smoked  his 

baccy.  Green  twinkling  stone.  An  emerald  set  in  the  ring  of  the 
sea. 

—  People  do  not  know  how  dangerous  lovesongs  can  be,  the 
auric  egg  of  Russell  warned  occultly.    The  movements  which  work 


T h$    Little    Review  33 


revolutions  in  the  world  are  born  out  of  the  dreams  and  visions  in 
a  peasant's  heart  on  the  hillside.  For  them  the  earth  is  not  an 
exploitable  ground  but  the  living  mother.  The  rarefied  air  of  the 
academy  and  the  arena  produce  the  sixshilling  novel,  the  musichall 
song.  France  produces  the  finest  flower  of  corruption  in  Mallarme 
but  the  desirable  life  is  revealed  only  to  the  poor  of  heart,  the 
life  of  Homer's  Phaeacians. 

From  these  words  Mr.  Best  turned  an  unoffending  face  to 
Stephen. 

—  Mallarme,  don't  you  know,  he  said,  has  written  those 
wonderful -prose  poems  Stephen  MiacKenna  used  to  read  to  me  in 
Paris.  The  one  about  "Hamlet".  He  says:  il  se  promene,  lisaut 
au  livre  de  luimeme,  don't  you  know,  reading  the  book  of  hiimself. 
He  describes  "Hamlet"  given  in  a  French  town,  don't  you  know,  a 
provincial  town.     They  advertised  it. 

His  free  hand  graciously  wrote  tiny  signs  in  air. 
Hamlet 
ou 
Le  Distrait 
piece  de  Shakespeare 
He  repeated  to  John  Eglinton's  newgathered  froAvn: 

—  Piece  de  Shakespeare,  don't  you  know.    It's  so  French,  the 
1  French  point  of  view.    Hamlet  ou 

—  The  absentminded  beggar,  Stephen  ended. 
John  Eglinton  laughed. 

—  Yes,  I  suppose  it  would  be,  he  said.  Excellent  people,  no 
doubt,  but  distressingly  shortsighted  in  some  matters. 

Sumptuous  and  stagnant  exaggeration  of  murder. 

—  A  deathsman  of  the  soul  Robert  Greene  called  him,  Stephen 
said.  Not  for  nothing  was  he  a  butcher's  son,  wielding  the  sledded 
pole-axe  and  spitting  in  his  palm.  Nine  lives  are  taken  off  for 
fiis  father's  one.  Our  Father  who  art  in  purgatory.  Khaki  Hamlets 
don't  hesitate  to  shoot.  The  shambles  in  act  five  is  a  forecast  of 
the  concentration  camp  sung  by  Mr.  Swinburne. 

iCranly,  I  his  mute  orderly,  following  battles  from  afar. 
Whelps  and  dams  of  murderous  foes  whom  none 
But  we  had  spared.  .  .  . 

—  He  will  have  it  that  "Hamlet"  is  a  ghost  story,  John  Eglin- 


34  The    Little    Review 

ton  said  for  Mr.  Best's  behoof.     Like  the  fat  boy  in  Pickwick  he 
wants  tq  make  our  flesh  creep. 

List!    List!    O  list! 

My  flesh  hears  him  creeping,  hears. 

If  thou  didst  ever 

—  What  is  a  ghost?  Stephen  said  with  tingling  energy.  One 
who  has  faded  into  impalpability  through  death,  through  absence, 
through  change  of  manners.  Elizabethan  London  lay  as  far  from 
Stratford  as  corrupt  Paris  lies  from  virgin  Dublin.  Who  is  the 
g'host,  returning  to  the  world  that  has  forgotten  him?  Who  is  king 
Hamlet? 

John  Eglinton  shifted  his  spare  body,  leaning  back  to  judge. 
Lifted. 

—  It  is  this  hour  of  a  June  day.  Stephen  said,  begging  with  a 
swift  glance  their  hearing.  The  flag  is  up  on  the  playhouse  by  the 
bankside.  The  bear  Sackerson  growls  in  the  pit  near  it,  Paris 
garden.  Canvasclimbers  who  sailed  with  Drake  chew  their  sausages 
among  the  groundlings. 

Local  colour.    Work  in  all  you  know.    Make  them  accomplices. 

—  Shakespeare  has  left  the  huguenot's  house  in  Silver  street 
and  walks  by  the  swanmews  along  the  riverbank.  But  he  does  not 
stay  to  feed  the  pen  chivying  her  game  of  cygnets  towards  the 
rushes.    The  swan  of  Avon  has  other  thoughts. 

Composition  of  place.    Ignatius  Loyola,  make  haste  to  help  me! 

—  The  play  begins.  A  player  comes  on  under  the  shadow, 
clad  in  the  castoff  mail  of  a  court  buck,  a  wellset  man  with  a  bass 
voice.  He  is  the  ghost  king  Hamlet,  and  the  player  Shakespeare. 
He  speaks  the  words  to  Burbage,  the  young  player  who  stands  be- 
fore him,  calling  hiim  by  a  name: 

Hamlet,  I  am  thy  father's  spirit 
bidding  him  list.  To  a  son  he  speaks,  the  son  of  his  soul,  the  prince, 
young  Hamlet  and  to  the  son  of  his  body,  Hamlet  Shakespeare  who 
has  died  in  Stratford  that  his  namesake  may  live  for  ever. 

Is  it  possible  that  that  player  Shakespeare,  a  ghost  by  absence, 
and  in  the  vesture  of  buried  Denmark,  a  ghost  by  death,  speaking 
his  own  words  to  his  own  son's  name  (had  Hamlet  Shakespeare 
lived  he  would  have  been  prince  Hamlet's  twin)  is  it  possible,  I 
want  to  know,  or  probable  that  he  did  not  draw  or  foresee  the  logical 


The    Little    Review  35 

conclusion  of  those  premises:  you  are  this  dispossessed  son.  I  am 
the  murdered  father:  your  moUier  is  the  guilty  queen,  Ann  Shakes- 
peare, born  Hathaway? 

—  But  this  prying  into  the  family  life  of  a  great  man,  Russell 
"began  impatiently. 

Art  thou  there,  truepenny? 

— Interesting  only  to  the  parish  clerk.  I  mean,  we  have  the 
plays.  I  mean  when  we  read  the  poetry  of  "King  Lear"  what  is 
it  to  us  how  the  poet  lived?  As  for  living  our  servants  can  do  that 
for  us,  Villiers  de  I'lsle  said.  Peeping  and  prying  into  greenroom 
gossip  of  the  day,  the  poet's  drinking,  the  poet's  debts.  We  have 
"King  Lear'':  and  it  is  immortal. 

Mr.  Best's  face  appealed  to,  agreed. 
Flow  over  tkem  with  your  waves  and  with  your  waters,  Mananaan, 
Mananaan  MacLir 

By  the  way,  that  pound  he  lent  you  when  you  were  hungry? 

I  wanted  it. 

Take  thou  this  noble. 

You  spent  most  of  it  in 

Do  you  intend  to  pay  it  back? 

0,  yes. 

When?     Now? 
Well.  .  .  no. 
When,  then? 

I  paid  my  way.    I  paid  my  way. 

Steady  on.     He's  from  north  of  Boyne  water.     You  owe  it. 

Wait.  Five  months.  Molecules  all  change.  I  am  other  I  now. 
Other  I  got  pound. 

Buzz.     Buzz. 

But  I,  entelechy,  form  of  forms,  am  I  by  memory  under  ever 
changing  forms. 

I  that  sinned  and  prayed  and  fasted. 

A  child  Conmee  saved  from  Dandies. 

1,  I  and  L  I. 
A.  E.  I.  O.  U. 

—  Do  you  mean  to  fly  in  the  face  of  the  tradition  of  three 
centuries?  John  Eglinton's  carping  voice  asked.  Her  ghost  at  least 
has  been  laid  for  ever.     She  died,  for  literature  at  least,  before  she 


36  The    Little    Review 

was  born. 

- —  She  died,  Stephen  retorted,  sixtyseven  years  after  she  was 
born.  She  saw  him  into  and  out  of  the  world.  She  took  his  first 
embraces.  She  bore  his  children  and  she  laid  pennies  on  his  eyes 
to  keep  his  eyelids  closed  wihen  he  lay  on  his  deathbed. 

Mother's  deathbed.  Candle.  The  sheeted  mirror.  Who 
brought  me  into  this  world  lies  there,  bronzelidded,  under  few 
cheap  flowers.    Liliata  rutilantium. 

I  wept  alone. 

John  Eglinton  looked  in  the  tangled  glowworm  of  his  lamp. 

—  Tihe  world  believes  that  Shakespeare  made  a  mistake,  he 
said,  and  got  out  of  it  as  quickly  and  as  best  he  could. 

—  Bosh!  Stephen  said  rudely.  A  man  of  genius  makes  no 
mistakes.    His  errors  are  volitional  and  are  the  portals  of  discovery. 

Portal  of  discovery  opened  to  let  in  the  quaker  librarian,  soft- 
creakedfooted,  bald,  eared  and  assiduous. 

—  A  shrew,  John  Eglinton  said  shrewdly,  is  not  a  useful  portal 
of  discovery,  one  should  imagine.  What  useful  discovery  did 
Socrates  learn  from  Xanthippe? 

—  Dialectic,  Stephen  answered:  and  from  his  mother  how  to 
'bring  thought  into  the  world.  But  neither  the  midwife's  lore  nor 
the  caudlelectures  saved  him  from  the  archons  of  Sinn  Fein  and 
their  naggin  of  hemlock. 

—  But  Ann  Hathaway?  Mr.  Best's  quiet  voice  said  forgetfully. 
Yes,  we  seem  to  be  forgetting  her  as  Shakespeare  himself  forgot 
her. 

His  look  went  from  brooder's  beard  to  carper's  skull,  to  remind, 
to  chide  them  not  unkindly,  then  to  the  baldpink  lollard  costard, 
guiltless  though  maligned. 

—  He  had  a  good  groatsworth  of  wit,  Stephen  said,  and  no 
truant  memory.  He  carried  a  memory  in  his  wallet  as  he  trudged 
to  Romeville  whistling  The  girl  I  Icjt  behind  mc.  If  the  earth- 
quake did  not  time  it  we  should  know  where  to  place  poor  Wat, 
sitting  in  his  form,  the  studded  bridle  and  her  blue  windows.  That 
memory,  Venus  and  Adorns,  lay  in  the  bedchamber  of  every  light- 
of-love  in  London.  Is  Katherine  the  shrew  ill  favored?  Hortensio 
calls  her  young  and  beautiful.  Do  you  think  the  writer  of  "Anthony 
and  Cleopatra,"  a  passionate  pilgrim,  had  his  eyes  in  the  back  of 


The    Little    Review  37 

his  head  that  he  chose  the  ugliest  doxy  in  all  Warwickshire  to  lie 
withal?  Good:  he  left  her  and  gained  the  world  of  men.  But  his 
boywomen  are  the  women  of  a  boy.  Their  life,  thought,  speech 
are  lent  them  by  males.  He  chose  badly?  He  was  chosen,  it 
seems  to  me.  If  others  have  their  will  Ann  hath  a  way.  By  cock, 
she  was  to  blame.  She  put  the  comether  on  him,  sweet  and  twenty- 
six.  The  goddess  who  bends  over  the  boy  Adonis  is  a  boldfaced 
Stratford  wench  who  tumbles  in  a  cornfield  a  lover  younger  than 
herself. 

And  my  turn?     When? 

Come! 

—  Ryefield.  Mr.  Best  said  brightly,  gladly,  raising  his  new 
book,  gladly,  brightly. 

He  murmured  then  with  blond  delight  for  all: 
Between  the  acres  of  the  rye 
These  pretty  countryjolk  would  lie. 
Par's:  the  wellpleased  pleaser. 

A  tall  figure  in  bearded  homespun  rose  from  shadow  and  un- 
veiled its  cooperative  watch. 

—  I  am  afraid  I  am  due  at  the  Homestead. 
Whither  away?     Exploitable  ground. 

—  Are  you  going,  John  Eglinton's  eyebrows  asked.  Shall  we 
,-ee  you  at  Moore's  tonight?     Piper  is  coming. 

—  Piper!     Mr.  Best  piped.     Is  Piper  back? 

Peter  Piper  pecked  a  peck  of  pick  of  peck  of  pickled  pepper. 

—  I  don't  know  if  I  can.  Thursday.  We  have  our  meeting. 
If  I  can  get  away  in  time. 

Yogibogeybox  in  Dawson  chambers.  "Isis  Unveiled."  Their 
Palibook  we  tried  to  pawn.  Crosslegged  under  an  umbrel  umber- 
shoot  he  thrones  an  Aztec  logos,  functioning  on  astral  levels,  ma- 
hamahatma.  The  faithful  hermetists  await  the  light,  ringround- 
about  him.  Louis  H.  Victory.  T.  Caulfield  Irvvin.  Lotus  ladies 
tend  them  i'  the  eyes,  their  piineal  glands  aglow.  Filled  with  his 
god  he  thrones,  Buddha  under  plantain.  Gulfer  of  souls,  engulfer. 
Hesouls,  shesouls,  shoals  of  souls.  Engulfed  with  wailing  creecries, 
whirled,  whirling,  they  bewail. 

In  quintessential  triviality 

For  years  in  this  fleshcase  a  shesoul  dwelt. 


38  The    Little    Review 


—  They  say  we  are  to  have  a  literary  surprise,  the  quaker 
librarian  said,  friendly  and  earnest.  Mr.  Russell,  rumour  has  it, 
is  gathering  together  a  sheaf  of  our  younger  poets'  verses.  We  are 
all  looking  forward  anxiously. 

Anxiously  he  glanced  in  the  cone  of  lamplight  where  three 
faces,  lighted,  shone. 

See  this.     Remember. 

Stephen  looked  down  on  a  wide  headless  caubeen,  hung  on  his 
ashplanthandle  over  his  knee.    My  casque  and  sword. 

Listen. 

Young  Colum  and  Starkey.  George  Roberts  is  doing  the  com- 
mercial part.  LongA\'ort»h  will  give  it  a  good  puff  in  the  Express.  . 
O,  will  he?  I  like  Colum's  drover.  Yes,  I  think  he  has  that  queer 
thing,  genius.  Do  you  think  he  has  genius  really?  Yeats  admired 
his  line.  As  in  wild  earth  a  Grecian  vase.  Did  he?  I  hope  you'll 
be  able  to  come  tonight.  Malachi  Mulligan  is  coming  ,too.  Moore 
asked  him  to  bring  Haines.  Did  you  hear  Miss  Mitchell's  joke 
about  Moore  and  Martyn?  That  Moore  is  Martyn's  wild  oats? 
Awfully  clever,  isn't  it?  They  remind  one  of  don  Quixote  and 
Sancho  Panza.  Our  national  epic  'has  yet  to  be  written.  Moore  is 
the  man  for  it.  A  knight  of  the  rueful  countenance  here  in  Dublin. 
With  a  saffron  kilt?  O'Neill  Russell?  O,  yes,  he  must  speak  the: 
grand  old  tongue.  And  his  Dulcinea?  James  Stephens  is  doing- 
some  clever  sketches.     We  are  becoming  important,  it  seems. 

Cordelia.     CordogJio.    Lir's  loniest  daughter. 

Now  your  best  French  polish. 

—  Thank  you  very  much,  Mr.  Russell,  Stephen-  said,  rising. 
If  you  will  be  so  kind  as  to  give  the  letter  to  Mr.  Norman.  .... 

— O,  yes.  If  he  considers  it  important  it  will  go  in.  We  have 
so  much  correspondence. 

—  I  understand,  Stephen  said.     Thank  you. 
The  pigs'  paper.     Bullockbefriending. 

Synge  has  promised  me  an  article  for  Dana  too.    Are  we  going 
to  be  read?    I  feel  we  are.    The  Gaekc  league  wants  something  in 
Irish.     I  hope  you  will  come  round  tonight.     Bring  Starkey. 
Stephen  sat  down. 

The*  quaker  librarian  came  from  the  leavetakers.  Blusihing 
his  mask  said: 


The    Lit  tig    Review 


39 


—  Mr.  Dedalus,  your  views  are  most  illuminating. 

He  creaked  to  and  fro,  tiptoing  up  nearer  heaven  by  the  alti- 
tude of  a  ohopine,  and,  covered  by  the  noise  of  outgoing,  said  low: 

—  Is  it  your  view,  then,  that  she  was  not  faithful  to  the  poet? 
Alarmed  face  asks  me.     Why  did  he  come?     Courtesy  or  an 

inward  light? 

—  Where  there  is  a  reconciliation,  Stephen  said,  there  must 
have  been  first  a  sundering. 

—  Yes. 

Christfox  in  leather  trews,  hiding,  a  runaway  in  blighted  tree- 
forks  from  hue  and  cry.  Knowing  no  vixen,  walking  lonely  in  the 
chase.  Women  he  won  to  him,  tender  people,  a  whore  of  Babylon, 
ladies  of  justices,  bully  tapsters'  wives.  Fox  and  geese.  And  in 
New  place  a  slack  dishonoured  body  that  once  was  comely,  once  as 
sweet,  as  freslli  as  cinnamon,  now  her  leaves  falling,  all  bare,  fright- 
ed of  the  narrow  grave  and  unfoi-given. 

—  Yes.     So  you  think 

The  door  closed  behind  the  outgoer. 

Rest,  suddenly  possessed  the  discreet  vaulted  cell,  rest  of  warm 

and  brooding  air, 

A  vestal's  lamp. 

Here  he  ponders  things  that  were  not:  what  Caesar  would 
have  lived  to  do  had  he  believed  the  soothsayer:  what  might  have 
been:  possibilities  of  'the  possible  as  possible:  things  not  known: 
what  name  Achilles  bore  when  he  lived  among  women. 

Coffiined  thoughts  around  me,  in  mummycases,  embalmed  in 
spice  of  words.  Thoth,  god  of  libraries,  a  birdgod,  moonycrowned. 
And  I  heard  the  voice  of  that  Egyptian  highpriest.  In  painted 
chambers  loaded  with  tilebooks. 

They  are  still.  Once  quick  in  the  brains  of  men.  Still:  but  an 
itch  of  death  is  in  them,  to  tell  me  in  my  ear  a  maudlin  tale  urge 
me  to  wreaktheirwill  *  '      "^ 

—  Certanly,  John  Eglinton  mused,  of  all  great  men  he  is  the 
most  enigmatic.  We  know  nothing  but  that  he  lived  and  suffered. 
Not  even  so  much.  Others  abide  our  question.  A  sfhadow  han^^s 
over  all  the  rest.  ° 

—  But  "Hamlet"  is  so  personal,  isn't  it  —  Mr.  Best  pleaded. 
[   mean   a  kind   of  private   paper,   don't  you   know,   of  his   pri- 


40  The    Little    Review 

vate  life.  1  mean  I  don't  care  a  button,  don't  you  know,  who  is 
killed  or  who  is  guilty 

He  rested  an  innocent  book  on  the  edge  of  the  desk,  smiling 
his  defiance.  His  private  papers.  Ta  an  bad  ar  an  tir.  .  Taim  into 
shagart.    Put  beurla  on  it,  littlejohn. 

Quoth  littlejohn  Eglinton: 

—  I  was  prepared  for  paradoxes  from  what  Malachi  Mulligan 
told  us  but  I  may  as  well  warn  you  that  if  you  want  to  shake  my 
belief  that  Shakespeare  is  Hamlet  you  have  a  stern  task  before  \ 
you.  \ 

Bear  with  me,  - 

Stephen  w^ithstood  the  bane  of  miscreant  eyes,  glinting  stern  , 
under  wrinkling  brows.    A  basilisk.    E  quando  vede  I'uomo  I'attosca. 
Messer  Brunetto,  I  thank  thee  for  the  word. 

— As  we,  or  mother  Dana,  weave  and  unweave  our  bodies, 
Stephen  said,  from  day  to  day,  their  molecules  shuttled  to  and  fro, 
so  does  the  artist  weave  and  unweave  his  image.  And  as  the  mole 
on  my  right  breast  is  where  it  was  when  I  was  born  though  all  my 
body  has  been  woven  of  new  stuff  time  after  time  so  through  the 
ghost  of  the  unquiet  father  the  image  of  the  unliving  son  looks 
forth.  In  the  intense  instant  of  imagina/tion,  when  the  mind, 
Shelley  says,  is  a  fading  coal,  that  which  I  was  is  that  which  I  am 
and  that  which  in  possibility  I  may  come  to  be.  So  in  the  future, 
the  sister  of  the  past,  I  may  see  myself  as  I  sit  here  now  but  by 
reflection  from  that  which  then  I  shall  be. 

Drummond  of  Hawthornden  helped  you  at  that  stile. 

— Yes,  Mr.  Best  said  youngly.  I  feel  Hamlet  quite  young. 
The  bitterness  might  be  from  the  father  but  the  passages  with 
Ophelia  are  surely  from  the  son. 

Has  the  wrong  sow  by  the  lug, 

— That  mole  is  the  last  to  go,  Stephen  said,  laughing, 

John  Eglinton  made  a  nothing  pleasing  mow. 

—  If  that  were  the  birthmark  of  genius,  he  said,  genius  would 
be  a  drug  in  the  market.  The  plays  of  Shakespeare's  later  years 
which  Renan  admired  so  much  breathe  another  spirit. 

—  The  spirit  of  reconciliation,  the  quaker  librarian  breathed. 

—  There  can  be  no  reconciliation,  Stephen  said,  if  there  has 
not  been  a  sundering. 


The   Littlt   Review  41 


Said  that. 

—  If  you  want  to  know  what  are  the  events  which  cast  their 
shadow  over  the  hell  of  time  of  "King  Lear,"  ''Othello,"  "Hamlet," 
"Troilus  and  Cressida,"  look  to  see  when  and  how  the  shadow  lifts. 
What  softens  the  heart  of  a  man,  shipwrecked  in  life's  storms,  tried, 
like  another  Ulysses,  Pericles,  prince  of  Tyre? 

Head,  redconecapped,  buffeted,  brineblinded. 

—  A  child,  a  girl  placed  in  his  arms  Marina. 

—  The  leaning  of  sophists  towards  the  bypaths  of  apocrypha 
is  a  constant  quantity,  John  Eglinton  detected.  The  highroads  are 
dreary  but  they  lead  to  the  town. 

Good  Bacon:  gone  musty.     Shakespeare  Bacon's  wild  oats. 
Cypherjugglers  going  the  highroads.     What  town,  good  masters? 
Mummed  in  names:     A.  E,  eon:  Magee,  John  Eglinton.     East  of 
the  sun,  west  of  the  moon:     Tir  nan  og.     Booted  the  twain  and 
staved. 

How  many  miles  to  Dublin? 

Three  score  and  ten,  sir. 

Will  we  be  there  by  candlelight? 

—  Mr.  Brandes  accepts  it,  Stephen  said,  as  the  first  play  of 
the  closing  period. 

—  Does  he?  What  does  Mr.  Sidney  Lee,  or  Mr.  Simon  La- 
zarus, as  some  aver  his  name  /s,  say  of  it? 

—  Marina,  Stephen  said,  a  child  of  storm,  Miranda,  a  wonder, 
Perdita,  that  which  was  lost.  What  was  lost  is  given  back  to  him. 
his  daughter's  child.  My  dearest  wife,  Pericles  says,  was  like  this 
maid.  Will  any  man  love  the  daughter  if  he  has  not  loved  the 
mother? 

—  The  art  of  being  a  grandfather,  Mr.  Best  gan  murmur. 
L'art  d'etre  grandp 

—  His  own  image  to  a  man  with  that  queer  thing  genius  is 
the  standard  of  all  experience,  material  and  moral.  Such  an  appeal 
will  touch  him.  The  images  of  other  ma:les  of  his  blood  will  repel 
him.  He  will  see  in  them  grotesque  attempts  of  nature  to  foretell 
or  repeat  himself. 

The  benign  forehead  of  the  quaker  librarian  enkindled  rosily 
with  hope. 

—  I  hope  Mr.  Dedalus  will  work  out  his  theory  for  the  en- 


42  The    Little    Review 

lightenment  of  the  public.  And  we  ought  to  mention  another  Irish 
commentator,  Mr.  Frank  Harris.  His  articles  <  n  Shakespeare  in 
the  Saturday  Review  were  surely  brilliant.  Oddly  enough  he  too 
draws  for  us  an  unhapply  relation  with  the  dark  lady  of  the  sonnets. 
The  favored  r'ival  is  William  Herbert,  earl  of  Pembroke.  I  own  that 
if  the  poet  must  be  rejected  such  a  rejection  would  seem  more  in 
harmony  with  —  what  shall  I  say?  —  our  notions  of  what  ought 
not  to  have  been. 

Felicitously  he  ceased  and  held  out  a  meek  head  among  them, 
auk's  egg,  prize  of  their  fray. 

He  thous  and  thees  her  with  grave  husbandwords.  Dost  love, 
Miriam?     Dost  love  thy  man? 

—  That  may  be  too,  Stephen  said.  There  is  a  saying  of 
Goethe's  which  Mr.  Magee  likes  to  quote.  Beware  of  what  you 
wish  for  in  youth  because  you  will  get  it  in  middle  life.  Why  does 
he  send  to  one  who  is  a  buonaroha,  a  bay  where  all  men  ride,  a  maid 
of  houour  with  a  scandalous  girlhood,  a  lordling  to  woo  for  him? 
He  was  himself  a  lord  of  language  and  had  made  himself  a'  coistrel 
gentleman  and  had  written  "Romeo  and  Juliet."  Why?  Belief  in 
himself  has  been  untimely  killed.  He  was  overborne  in  "a  corn- 
field first  (a  rye  field,  I  should  say)  and  he  will  never  be  a  victor 
in  his  own  eyes  after  nor  play  victoriously  the  game  of  laugh  and 
lie  down.  Assumed  dong'ovannism  will  not  save  him.  No  later 
undoing  will  undo  the  first  undoing.  If  the  shrew  is  worsted  there 
remains  to  her  woman's  invisble  weapon.  There  is,  I  feel  in  the 
words,  some  goad  of  the  flesh  driving  him  into  a  new  passion,  a 
darker  shadow  of  the  first,  darkening  even  his  own  understanding  of 
himself.  A  like  fate  awaits  him  and  the  two  rages  commingle  in 
a  whirlpool. 

They  list.    And  in  the  porches  of  their  ears  I  pour. 

—  The  soul  has  been  before  stricken  mortally,  a  poison  poured 
in  the  porch  of  a  sleeping  ear.  But  those  who  are  done  to  death 
in  sleep  cannot  know  the  manner  of  their  quell  unless  their  Creator 
endow  their  souls  with  that  knowledge  in  the  life  to  come.  The 
poisoning  and  the  beast  with  two  backs  that  urged  it  king  Hamlet's 
ghost  could  not  know  of  were  he  not  endowed  with  knowledge  by 
his  creator.  That  is  why  the  speech  is  always  turned  elsewhere, 
backward.  Ravisher  and  ravished  go  with  him  from  Lucrece's 
bluecircled  ivory  globes  to  Imogen's  breast,  bare,  with  its  mole 


The    Little   Re-view  43 

cinquespotted.  He  goes  back,  weary  of  the  creation  he  has  piled 
up  to  hide  h;m  from  himself,  an  old  dog  licking  an  old  score.  But, 
because  loss  is  h:'s  gain,  he  passes  on  towards  eternity  in  undimin- 
ished personality,  untaught  by  the  wisdom  he  has  written  or  by  the 
laws  he  has  revealed.  His  beaver  is  up.  He  is  a  gliost,  a  shadow 
now,  the  wind  by  Elsinore's  rocks  or  what  you  will,  the  sea's  voice, 
a  voice  heard  only  in  the  heart  of  him  who  is  the  substance  of  his 
sihadow,  the  son  consubstantial  with  the  father. 

—  Amen!   responded  from  the  doorway. 

Hast  thou  found  me,  O  mine  enemy? 
■  A  ribald  face,  sullen  as  a  dean's.  Buck  Mulligan  came  for- 
ward, then  blithe  in  mot'ley,  towards  the  greeting  of  their  smiles. 
My  telegram. 

(to  be  continued) 

MARY   OLIVIER:   A   LIFE* 

May  Sinclair 
Infancy 

VI. 

It  was  a  good  and  happy  day. 

She  lay  on  the  big  bed.  Her  head  rested  on  Mamma's  arm. 
Mamma's  face  was  close  to  her.  Water  trickled  into  her  eyes  out 
of  the  wet  pad  of  pocket-handkerchief.  Under  the  cold  pad  a  hot, 
grinding  pain  came  from  the  hole  in  her  forehad.  Jenny  stood  be- 
side the  bed.  Her  face  had  waked  up  and  she  was  busy  squeezing 
something  out  of  a  red  sponge  into  a  basin  of  pink  water. 

When  Mamma  pressed  the  pocket-handkerchief  tight  the  pain 
ground  harder,  when  she  loosened  it  blood  ran  out  of  the  hole  and 
the  pocket-handkerchief  was  warm  again.  Then  Jenny  put  on  the 
sponge. 

She  could  hear  Jenny  say,  "It  was  the  Master's   fault.     She 


*  Copyright,  19 19,  by  the  Macmillan  Company. 


44  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 


didn't  ought  to  have  been  left  in  the  room  with  him." 

She  remembered.  The  dining-room  and  the  sharp  spike  on  the 
fender  and  Papa's  legs  stretched  out  .  He  had  told  her  not  to  run  so 
fast,  and  she  had  run  faster  and  faster.    It  wasn't  Papa's  fault. 

She  remembered  tripping  over  Papa's  legs.  Then  falling  on 
the  spike.     Then  nothing. 

Then  waking  in  Mamma's  room. 

She  wasn't  crying.  The  pain  made  her  feel  good  and  happy; 
and  Mamma  was  calling  her  her  darling  and  her  little  lamb. 

Mamma  loved  her.    Jenny  loved  her. 

Mark  and  Danlc  and  Roddy  came  in.  Mark  carried  Sarah  in 
his  arms.  They  stood  by  the  bed  and  looked  at  her  .  Their  faces 
pressed  close.  Roddy  had  been  crying;  but  Mark  and  Dank  were 
excited.  They  climbed  on  to  the  bed  and  kissed  her.  They  made 
Sarah  crouch  down  close  beside  her  and  held  her  there.  They  spoke 
very  fast,  one  after  the  other. 

"We've  brought  you  Sarah." 

"We've  given  you  Sarah." 

"She's  your  cat." 

"To  keep  for  ever." 

She  was  glad  that  she  had  tripped  over  Papa's  legs.  It  was  a 
good  and  happy  day. 

VII. 

The  sun  shone.  The  polished  green  blades  of  the  grass  glittered. 
The  gravel  walk  and  the  nasturtium  bed  together  made  a  broad 
orange  blaze.  Specks  like  glass  sparkled  in  the  hot  grey  earth.  On 
the  grey  flagstone  the  red  poppy  you  picked  yesterday  was  a  black 
thread,  a  purple  stain. 

She  was  happy  sitting  on  the  grass,  drawing  the  fine,  sharp 
blades  between  her  fingers,  sniffing  the  smell  of  the  mignonette  that 
tingled  like  sweet  pepper,  opening  and  shutting  the  yellow  mouths 
of  the  snap-dragon. 

The  garden  flowers  stood  still,  straight  up  in  the  grey  earth. 
They  were  as  tall  as  you  were.  You  could  look  at  them  a  long  time 
without  being  tired. 

The  garden  flowers  were  not  like  the  animals.  The  cat  Sarah 
bumped  her  sleek  head  under  your  chin;  you  could  feel  her  purr 


The    Little    Review  45 

throbbing  under  her  ribs  and  crackling  in  her  throat.  The  white 
rabbit  pushed  out  his  nose  to  you  and  drew  it  in  again,  quivering, 
and  breathed  his  sweet  breath  into  your  mouth. 

The  garden  flowers  wouldn't  let  you  love  them.  They  stood 
still  in  their  beauty,  quiet,  arrogant,  reproachful.  They  put  you 
in  the  wrong.  When  you  stroked  them  they  shook  and  swayed 
from  you;  when  you  held  them  tight  their  heads  dropped,  their 
backs  broke,  they  shrivelled  up  in  your  hands.  All  the  flowers  in 
the  garden  were  Mamma's;  they  were  sacred  and  holy. 

You  loved  best  the  flowers  that  you  stopped  down  to  look  at 

and  the  flowers  that  were  not  Mamma's:  the  small  crumpled  poppy 

^by  the  edge  of  the  field,  and  the  ears  of  the  wild  rye  that  ran  up 

your  sleeve  and  tickled  you,  and  the  speedwell,  striped  like  the  blue 

eyes  of  Meta,  the  wax  doll. 

When  you  smelt  mignonette  you  thought  of  Mamma. 

It  was  her  birthday.  Mark  had  given  her  a  little  sumach  tree 
r  in  a  red  pot.  They  took  it  out  of  the  pot  and  dug  a  hole  by  the 
^front  door  steps  outside  the  pantry  window,  and  planted  it  there. 

Papa  came  out  on  to  the  steps  and  watched  them. 

"I.  suppose,"  he  said,  "you  think  it'll  grow?" 

Mamma  never  turned  to  look  at  him.  She  smiled  because  it  was 
her  birthday.    She  said,  "Of  course  it'll  grow." 

She  spread  out  its  roots  and  pressed  it  down  and  padded  up 
the  earth  about  it  with  her  hands.  It  held  out  its  tiny  branches, 
stiffly,  like  a  toy  tree,   standing  no  higher  than   the  mignonette. 

■  Papa  looked  at  Mamma  and  Mark,  busy  and  happy  with  their  heads 
"  together,  taking  no  notice  of  him  .  He  laughed  out  of  his  big  beard 

and  went  back  into  the  house  suddenly  and  slammed  the  door.    You 
knew  that  he  disliked  the  sumach-tree  and  that  he  was  angry  with 
Mark  for  giving  it  to  Mamma. 
:  WTien   you    smelt   mignonette   you    thought   of    Mamma    and 

■  Mark  and  the  sumach-tree  ,and  Papa  standing  on  the  steps,  and  the 
queer  laughter  that  came  out  of  his  beard. 

When  it  rained  you  were  naughty  and  unhappy  because  you 
couldn't  go  out  of  doors.  Then  Mamma  stood  at  the  window  and 
looked  into  the  front  garden.  She  smiled  at  the  rain.  She  said, 
.  "It  will  be  good  for  my  sumach-tree." 

Every  day  you  went  out  on  to  the  steps  to  see  if  the  sumach- 
tree  had  grown. 


46  The    Little    Review 


VIII. 

The  white  lamb  stood  on  the  table  beside  her  cot. 
Mamma  put  it  there  every  night  so  that  she  could  see  it  first 
thing  in  the  morning  when  she  woke. 

She  had  had  a  birthday.  Suddenly  in  the  middle  of  the  night 
she  was  five  years  old. 

She  had  kept  on  waking  up  with  the  excitement  of  it.  Then 
in  the  dark  twilight  of  the  room,  sihe  had  seen  a  bulky  thing  inside 
the  cot,  leaning  up  against  the  rail.  It  stuck  out  queerly,  and  its 
weight  dragged  the  counterpane  tight  over  her  feet. 

The  birthday  present.  What  she  saw  was  not  its  real  shape. 
When  she  poked  it,  stiff  paper  bent  in  and  crackled  and  she  could 
feel  something  big  and  solid  underneath.  She  lay  quiet  and  happy, 
trying  to  guess  what  it  could  be,  and  fell  asleep  again. 

It  was  the  white  lamb.  It  stood  on  a  green  stand.  It  smelt 
of  dried  hay  and  gum  and  paint  like  the  other  toy  animals,  but  its 
white  coat  had  a  dull,  woolly  smeill,  and  that  was  the  real  smell  of 
the  lamb.  Its  large,  slanting  eyes  stared  off  over  its  ears  into  the 
far  corners  of  the  room,  so  tliat  it  never  looked  at  you.  This  made 
her  feel  sometimes  that  the  lamb  didn't  love  her,  and  sometimes  that 
it  was  frightened  and  wanted  to  be  comforted. 

She  trembled  when  first  she  stroked  it  and  held  it  to  her  face, 
and  sniffed  its  lamby  smell. 

Papa  looked  down  at  her.    He  was  smiling;  and  when  she  looked 
up  at  him  she  was  not  afraid.    She  had  the  same  feeling  that  came 
sometimes  when  she  sat  in  Mamma's  lap  and  Mamma  talked  about 
God  and  Jesus.    Papa  was  sacred  and  holy. 
He  had  given  her  the  lamb. 

It  was  the  end  of  her  birthday;  Mamma  and  Jenny  were  put- 
ting her  to  bed.  She  felt  weak  and  tired  ,and  sad  because  it  was  all 
over. 

"Come  to  that,"  said  Jenny,  "your  birthday  was  over  at  five 
minutes  past  twelve  this  morning." 

"When  will  it  come  again?"  ' 

"Not  for  a  whole  year,"  said  Mamma. 
"I  wish  it  would  come  to-morrow." 

Mamma  shook  her  head  at  her.  "You  want  to  be  spoiled  and 
petted  every  day." 

"No.    No.    I  want  —  I  want  —  " 


The    Little    Review  47 

"She  doesn't  know  what  she  wants,"  said  Jenny. 

"Yes.    I  do  .  I  do." 

"Well  —  ?" 

"I  want  to  love  Papa  every  day.    'Cause  he  gave  me  my  lamb." 

"Oh,"  said  Mamma,  "if  you  only  love  people  because  they  give 
you  birthday  presents  —  " 

"But  I  don't  —  I  don't  —  really  and  truly  —  " 

"You  didn't  ought  to  have  no  more  birthdays."  said  Jenny, 
"if  they  make  you  cry." 

Why  couldn't  they  see  that  crying  meant  that  she  wanted  Papa 
to  be  sacred  and  holy  every  day? 

The  day  after  the  birthday,  when  Papa  went  about  the  same 
as  ever,  looking  big' and  frightening,  when  he  "Baa'd"  into  her  face 
and  called  out,  "  'Mary  had  a  little  lamb,'  "  and  "  'Mary,  Mary, 
quite  contrary',  "  she  looked  after  him  sorrowfully  and  thought: 
"Papa  gave  me  my  lamb." 

IX.  * 

One  day  Uncle  Edward  and  Aunt  Bella  came  over  from  Chad- 
well  Grange.  They  were  talking  to  Mamma  a  long  time  in  the 
drawing-room,  and  when  she  came  in  they  stopped  and  whispered. 

Roddy  told  her  the  secret.  Uncle  Edward  was  going  to  give 
her  a  live  lamb. 

Mark  and  Dank  said  it  couldn't  be  true.  Uncle  Edward  was 
not  a  real  uncle;  he  was  only  Aunt  Bella's  husband,  and  he  never 
gave  you  anything.  And  anyhow  the  lamb  wasn't  born  yet  and 
couldn't  come  for  weeks  and  weeks. 

Every  morning  she  asked.  "Has  my  new  lamb  come?  When 
is  it  coming?    Do  you  think  it  will  come  to-day?" 

She  could  keep  on  sitting  still  quite  a  long  time  by  merely 
thinking  about  the  new  lamb.  It  would  run  beside  her  when  she 
played  in  the  garden.  It  would  eat  grass  out  of  her  hand.  She 
would  tie  a  ribbon  round  its  neck  and  lead  it  up  and  down  the 
lane.  At  these  moments  she  forgot  the  toy  lamb.  It  stood  on  the 
chest  of  drawers  in  the  nursery,  looking  off  into  the  corners  of  the 
room,  neglected. 

By  the  time  Uncle  Edward  and  Aunt  Bella  sent  for  her  to  come 
and  see  the  lamb,  she  knew  exactly  what  it  would  be  like  and  what 
would  happen.    She  saw  it  looking  like  the  lambs  in  the  Bible  Pic- 


48  The    Little    Review 

ture  Book,  fat,  and  covered  with  thick,  pure  white  wool.  She  saw 
Uncle  Edward,  with  his  yellow  face  and  big  nose  and  black  whiskers, 
coming  to  her  across  the  lawn  at  Chadwell  Grange,  carrying  the  lamb 
over  his  shoulder  like  Jesus. 

It  was  a  cold  morning.  They  drove  a  long  time  in  Uncle  Ed- 
ward's carriage,  over  the  hard,  loud  roads,  between  fields  white 
with  frost;  and  Uncle  Edward  was  not  on  his  lawn. 

Aunt  Bella  stood  in  the  big  hall,  waiting  for  them.  She  looked 
much  larger  and  more  important  than  Mamma. 

"Aunt  Bella,  have  you  got  my  new  lamb?" 

She  tried  not  to  shriek  it  out,  because  Aunt  Bella  was  nearly 
always  poorly,  and  Mamma  had  told  her  that  if  you  shrieked  at  her 
she  would  be  ill. 

Mamma  said,  "Sh-sh-sh!"  And  Aunt  Bella  ■whispered  some- 
thing, and  she  heard  Mamma  answer,  "Better  not." 

"If  she  sees  it,"  said  Aunt  Bella,  "she'll  understand.," 

Mamma  shook  her  head  at  Aunt  Bella. 

"Edward  would  ilike  it,"  said  Aunt  Bella.  "He  wanted  to  give 
it  her  himself.    "It's  his  present." 

Mamma  took  her  hand  and  they  followed  Aunt  Bella  through 
the  servants'  hall  into  the  kitchen  .  The  servants  were  all  there: 
Rose  and  Annie  and  Cook,  and  Mrs,  Fisher  the  housekeeper  and 
Giles  the  young  footman.  They  all  stared  at  her  in  a  queer,  kind 
way  as  she  came  in. 

A  low  screen  was  drawn  close  round  one  corner  of  the  fire- 
place; Uncle  Edward  and  Pidgeon,  the  baliff,  were  doing  something 
to  it  with  a  yellow  horse-cloth.  Uncle  Edward  came  to  her,  looking 
down  the  side  of  his  big  nose.  He  led  her  to  the  screen  and  drew 
it  away,  .  '  i'i?! 

Something  lay  on  the  floor  wrapped  in  a  piece  of  dirty  blan- 
ket. When  Uncle  Edward  pushed  back  the  blanket  a  bad  smell  came 
out.    He  said,  "Here's  your  lamb,  Mary  .  You're  just  in  time." 

She  saw  a  brownish-grey  animal  with  a  queer,  hammer-shaped 
head  and  long  black  legs.  Its  body  was  drawn  out  aYid  knotted  like 
an  enormous  maggot.  It  lay  twisted  to  one  side  and  its  eyes  were 
shut. 

"That  isn't  my  lamb." 

"It's  the  lamb  I  always  said  Miss  Mary  was  to  have,  isn't  it, 
Pidgeon?" 


The    Little    Review 


49 


"Yes,  Squoire,  its  the  lamb  you  bid  me  set  aside  for  little 
^issy." 

"Then,"  said  Mary,  'Svhy  does  it  look  like  that?" 

"It's  very  ill,"  Mamma  said  gently.     "Poor   Uncle   Edward 

hought  you'd  like  to  see  it  before  it  died.     You  are  glad  you've 

een  it,  aren't  you?" 
"No." 

Just  then  the  lamb  stirred  in  its  blanket;  it  opened  its  eyes  and 
X)ked  at  her. 

She  thought:  "It's  my  lamb.  It  looked  at  me.  It's  my  lamb 
nd  it's  dying.     My  lambs  dying. 

The  bad  smell  came  again  out  of  the  blanket.  She  tried  not  to 
imk  of  it.  She  wanted  to  sk  down  on  the  floor  beside  the  lamb  and 
ft  it  out  of  its  blanket  and  nurse  it;  but  Mamma  wouldn't  let  her. 

When  she  got  home  Mamma  took  down  the  toy  lamb  from  the 
lest  of  drawers  and  brought  it  to  her. 

She  sat  quiet  a  long  time,  holding  it  in  her  lap  and  stroking  it. 

The  stiff  eyes  of  the  toy  lamb  still  stared  away  over  its  ears  . 

Ill 

Jenny  was  cross  and  tugged  at  your  hair  when  she  dressed 
>u  to  go  to  Ohadwell  Grange. 

One  day  *e  said,  "I  don't  see  why  it  should  always  you, 
[iss  Mary,  and  Master  Daniel  and  Master  Mark  never  but  iust 
■at  onst." 

Jenny  was  cross  and  tugged  at  your  hair  when  she  dressed 
)u  to  go  to  Chad  well  Grange. 

One  day  ^e  said,  "I  don't  see  why  it  should  be  always  you, 
iss  Mary,  and  Master  Roddy  and  Master  Daniel  and  Master 
ark  never  but  just  that  onst." 

^'I  think  it  is  me,"     Mary  said,     "because  I  am  so  good." 

''Well,  if  you  can  be  good  to  please  your  Aunt  Bella  you'd 
ghter  be  good  to  please  your  Mamma." 

"But,  Jenny-Wee,  I  can't  help  it.  Mamma  says  if  I'm  not 
od  Aunt  Bella  will  be  ill.     Do  you  think  it's  really  true?" 

Jenny  tugged.  "I'd  thank  you  for  some  of  your  Aunt  Bella's 
less."  she  said. 

'I  mean,"  Mary  said,  "like  Papa  was  in  the  night.     Every 


50  T  he    Lit  tie    Review 

time  I  get  'cited  and  jump  about  I  think  she'll  open  her  mout 
and  begin." 

"Well,  if  she  was  to,  you'd  oughter  be  sorry  for  her." 
"I  am  sorry  for  her.     But  I'm  frightened  too." 
"That's  not  being  good,"  Jenny  said.    But  she  left  off  tuggin 
Somehow  you  knew  that  she  was  pleased  to  think  that  yc 
were  not  really  good  at  Aunt  Bella's,  where  Mrs.  Fisher  dress( 
and  undressed  you  and  you  were  allowed  to  talk  to  Pidgeon. 

Roddy  and  Dank  said  you  ought  to  hate  Uncle  Edward  ai 
Pidgeon  and  Mrs.  Fisher,  and  not  to  like  Aunt  Bella  very  muc 
even  if  she  was  Mamma's  sister.  Even  Mamma  didn't  really  li! 
Uncle  Edward;  she  only  pretended  because  of  Aunt  Bella.  Ma 
liked  him  and  pretended  that  she  didn't  because  of  Dank  ai 
Roddy. 

Uncle  Edward  had  an  ugly  nose  and  a  yellow  face  widened  ' 
his  black  whiskers;  his  mouth  stretched  from  one  whisker  to  t 
other,  and  his  black  hair  curled  in  large  tufts  above  his  ears.  B 
he  had  no  beard;  you  could  see  the  whole  of  his  mouth  at  one 
and  when  Aunt  Bella  came  into  the  room  his  little  blue  eyes  look 
up  off  the  side  of  his  nose  and  he  smiled  at  her  between  his  tu 
of  hair.  She  was  sorry  for  Uncle  Edward.  It  was  dreadful 
think  that  Mark  and  Dank  and  Roddy  didn't  like  him.  It  mij 
hurt  him  so  much  that  he  would  never  be  happy  again. 

About  Pidgeon  she  was   not  quite  sure.     Pidgeon  was  v« 
ugly.    He  had  long  stiff  legs,  and  a  long  stiff  face  finished  off  w 
a  fringe  of  red  whiskers  that  went  on  under  his  chin.     Still,  it  \ 
not  nice  to  think  of  ridgeon  being  unhappy.    But  Mrs.  Fisher  \ 
large  and  rather  like  Aunt  Bella,  only  softer  and  more  bulgi 
Her  round  face  had  a  high  red  polish  on  it  always,  and  when 
saw  you  coming  her  eyes  twinkled,  and  her  red  forehead^  and 
big  cheeks  and  her  mouth  smiled  all  together  a  fat,   simmer 
sniile.    When  you  got  to  the  black-and-white  marble  tiles  you  i 
her  waiting  on  the  landing  at  the  top  of  the  stairs,  holding  out 
hand  to  you  to  come  and  be  made  tidy.     She  touched  your  t 
gently;   each  stroke  of  the  brush  sent  a  delicious  tingling  up 
back  of  your  heck  and  down  your  spine,  and  there  was  a  gi 
many  red  glass  scent-bottles  and  ivory  and  silver  boxes  on  A 
Bella's  dressing-table  for  you  to  play  with  while  she  did  it. 

She  wanted  to  ask  Mrs.  Fisher  if  it  was  true  that  Aunt  B 


T  he    Lit  tie    Re  view  51 

would  be  ill  if  she  were  naughty;  but  a  squeezing  and  dragging 
came  under  her  waist  whenever  she  thought  about  it,  and  that 
made  her  shy  and  ashamed.  It  began  as  soon  as  Uncle  Edward's 
carriage  turned  into  the  drive  between  the  shining  laurel  bushes;  it 
got  worse  when  Aunt  Bella  came  into  the  hall  and  kissed  her;  and  it 
lasted  till  they  sent  her  out  to  play  by  herself  on  the  lawn  in  sight 
of  the  house. 

Aunt  Bella's  house  was  enormous.  Two  long  rows  of  windows 
stared  out  at  you,  their  dark  green  storm-shutters  folded  back  on 
the  yellow  brick  walls.  A  third  row  of  little  squeezed-up  windows 
and  little  squeezed-up  shutters  blinked  in  the  narrow  space  under 
the  roof.  All  summer  a  sweet  smell  came  from  that  side  of  the 
house  where  cream-coloured  roses  hung  on  the  yellow  walls  between 
the  green  shutters.  There  was  a  cedar-tree  on  the  lawn  and  a  sun- 
dial and  a  stone  fountain.  Gold-fish  swam  in  the  clear  greenish 
■water.  The  flowers  in  the  round  beds  were  stiff  and  shining  as 
if  they  had  been  cut  out  of  tin  and  freshly  painted.  When  you 
thought  of  Aunt  Bella's  garden  you  saw  calceolarias,  brown  velvet 
purses  with  yellow  spots. 

She  could  always  get  away  from  Aunt  Bella  by  going  down 
the  dark  walk  between  the  yew  hedge  and  the  window  of  Mrs. 
Fisher's  room,  and  through  the  stable-yard  into  the  plantation. 
The  cocks  and  hens  had  their  black  timber  house  there  in  the 
clearing,  and  Ponto,  the  Newfoundland,  lived  all  by  himself  in 
his  kennel  under  the  little  ragged  fir-trees. 

When  Ponto  saw  her  coming  he  danced  on  hind-legs  and 
strained  at  his  chain  and  called  to  her  with  his  loud,  barking  howl. 
He  played  with  her,  crawling  on  his  stomach,  crouching,  raising 
first  one  big  paw  and  then  the  other.  She  put  out  her  foot  and  he 
caught  it  and  held  it  between  his  big  paws,  and  looked  at  it  with 
his  head  on  one  side,  smiling.  She  squealed  with  delight,  and 
Ponto  barked  again. 

The  stable  bell  would  ring  while  they  played  in  the  plantation, 
and  Uncle  Edward  or  Pidgeon  or  Mrs.  Fisher  would  come  out  and 
find  her  and  take  her  back  into  the  house.  Ponto  lifted  up  his  head 
and  Ponto  howled  after  she  went. 

At  lunch  she  sat  quivering  between  Mamma  and  Aunt  Bella. 
The  squeezing  and  dragging  went  on  under  her  waist  worse  than 


52  The    Little    Review 


ever.  There  was  a  pattern  of  green  ivy  round  the  dinner-plates 
and  a  pattern  of  goats  round  the  silver  napkin-rings.  She  tried  to 
fix  her  mind  on  the  ivy  and  the  goats  instead  of  looking  at  Aunt 
Bella  to  see  whether  she  were  going  to  be  ill.  She  would  be  if  you 
.  left  mud  in  the  hall  on  the  black-and-white  marble  tiles.  Or  if  you 
took  Ponto  off  the  chain  and  let  him  get  into  the  house.  Or  if 
you  spilled  your  gravy  on  the  tablecloth. 

Aunt  Bella's  face  was  much  pinJker  and  richer  and  more  im- 
portant than  Mamma's  face.  She  thought  she  wouldn't  have 
minded  quite  so  much  if  Aunt  Bella  had  been  white  and  brown 
and  pretty,  like  Mamma. 

Tihere  —  she  had  spilled  the  gravy. 

Little  knots  came  in  Aunt  Bella's  p'nk  forehead.  Her  face 
loosened  and  swelled  with  a  red  fiush;  her  mouth  pouted  and  drew 
itself  in  again,  pulled  out  of  shape  by  something  that  darted  up 
the  side  of  her  nose  and  made  her  blink. 

She  thought:  "I  know  —  I  know  —  I  know  it's  going  to 
happen." 

It  didn't.  Aunt  Bella  only  said,  "You  should  look  at  your 
plate  and  spoon,  dear." 

When  Uncle  Edward  said,  "I  wouldn't  touch  that  cheese  if  I 
were  you,  Bella;  you  know  it  made  you  ill  yesterday,"  she  said 
out  loud,  "Please  —  please,  Aunt  Bella,  don't  touch  it!" 

Aunt  Bella  said,  "Capers  and  nonsense!''  and  took  the  big- 
gest piece.     "Bless  the  child,  does  she  want  to  be  ill?" 

Mary  had  turned  from  the  table  and  hidden  her  face  behind 
Mamma's  shoulder. 

"I  think  she  wants  to  be  naughty,"  said  Mamma. 

Mamma  didn't  know.  Uncle  Edward  and  Pidgeon  and  Mrs. 
Fisher  knew.  When  they  saw  naughtiness  coming  they  held  out 
their  hands  to  you  behind  their  backs  and  took  you  somewhere' 
where  it  couldn't  happen.  Either  you  went  with  Uncle  Edward 
round  the  stables  and  the  farm-yard;  or  Pidgeon  carried  you  on 
his  back  to  feed  the  calves;  or  Mrs.  Fisher  took  you  up  into  her 
bedroom  to  see  her  dress. 

In  Mrs.  Fisher's  bedroom  a  smell  of  rotton  apples  oozed 
through  the  rosebud  pattern  on  the  walls.  There  were  no  doors  in- 
side, only  places  in  the  wall-paper  that  opened.     Behind  one  of 


The    Little    Review  53 

these  places  there  was  a  cupboard  where  Mrs.  Fisher  kept  her 
clothes.  Sometimes  she  would  take  the  lid  off  the  big  box  covered 
with  wall-paper  and  show  you  her  Sunday  bonnet.  You  sat  on  the 
bed  and  she  gave  you  peppermint-balls  to  suck  while  she  peeled  off 
her  black  mer'no  and  squeezed  herself  into  her  black  silk.  You 
watched  for  the  moment  when  the  brooch  with  the  black  tomb  and 
the  weeping-willow  on  it  was  undon,  and  Mrs.  Fisher's  chin  came 
out  first  by  the  open  collar,  and  Mrs.  Fisher  began  to  swell.  When 
rshe  stood  up  in  her  petticoat  and  bodice  she  was  enormous;  her 
'  breasts  and  hips  and  her  great  arms  shook  as  she  walked  about 
(he  room. 

When  it  was  all  over  she  took  you  downstairs  and  gave  you 
(ea  with  strawberry  jam  and  apple-jelly  in  her  little  dark  room  that 
(tioked  on  to  the  yew  hedge. 

Sometimes  Aunt  Bella  would  come  in  and  look  at  you,  and 
'^he  and  Mrs.  Fi.sher  would  talk  about  you  as  if  you  were  not  there. 

"Flas  Miss  Mary  been  good  today?'' 

"As  good  as  gold,  ma'am." 

"Be  sure  you  tell  Mrs.  Oliv'er." 

This  afternoon  Mrs.  Fisher  said.  "See  how  pretty  she  is, 
'na'am,  when  her  hair's  done  proper.'' 

Aunt  Bella  shook  her  head.  "Mrs.  Olivier  won't  be  pleased 
if  you  spoil  her." 

"There's  some,''  said  Mrs.  Fisher,  "as  would  do  with  more 
.spoiling  and  some  as  would  do  with  less.  Mrs.  Olivier'U  not  be 
i  pleased  till  we've  asked  Master  Mark  and  Master  Daniel  and 
I  Master  Rodney  to  stay  again." 

"We  shall  have  to  do  it  some  day,  Fisher,"  sa'd  Aunt  Bella. 

Mary  was  sorry  when  she  sa'.d  good-bye  to  Uncle  Edward  and 
Aunt  Bella  and  Mrs.  Fisher. 

For,  always,  as  soon  as  she  got  home,  Roddy  rushed  at  her 
with  the  same  questions. 

"Did  vou  let  tTncle  Edward  kiss  you? 

"Yes.'' 

"Did  you  talk  to  Pidgeon?" 

"Yes." 

"Did  vou  kiss  Mrs.  Fisher?" 

"Yes." 


54  T he    Little    Review 

And  Dank  said,  "Have  they  taken  Ponto  off  the  chain  yet?" 

"No." 

"Wdl  then,  that  shows  you  what  pigs  they  are." 

And  when  she  saw  Mark  looking  at  her  she  felt  small  and 
silly  and  ashamed. 

II 
It  was  the  last  week  of  the  midsummer  holidays.     Mark  and 
Dank  had  gone  to  stay  for  three  days  at  Aunt  Bella's,  and  on  the 
second  day  they  had  been  sent  home. 

Mamma  and  Roddy  were  in  the  garden  when  they  came.  They 
were  killing  snails  in  a  flower-pot  by  putting  salt  on  them.  The 
snails  turned  over  and  over  on  each  other  and  spat  out  a  green 
foam  that  covered  them  like  soap-suds  as  they  died. 

Mark's  face  was  red  and  he  was  smiling.  Even  Dank  looked 
proud  of  himself  and  happy.  They  called  out  together,  "We've 
been  sent  home." 

Mamma  looked  up  from  her  flower-pot. 

"What  did  you  do?"  she  said. 

"We  took  Ponto  off  the  chain,"  said  Dank. 

"Did  he  get  into  the  house?" 

"Of  course  he  did,"  said  Mark.  "Like  a  shot.  He  got  into 
Aunt  Bella's  bedroom  and  Aunt  Bella  was  in  bed." 

"Oh,  Mark!" 

"Uncle  Edward  came  up  just  as  we  were  getting  him  out. 
He  was  in  an  awful  wax," 

"I'm  afraid,"  Dank  said,  "I  cheeked  him." 

"What  did  you  say?" 

"I  told  him  he  wasn't  fit  to  have,  a  dog.  And  he  said  we 
weren't  to  come  again;  and  Mark  said  that  was  all  we  Jiad  come 
for  —  to  let  Ponto  loose." 

Mamma  put  another  snail  into  the  flower-pot,  very  gently. 
She  was  smiling  and  at  the  same  time  trying  not  to  smile. 

"He  went  back,"  said  Mark,  "and  raked  it  up  again  about 
our  chasing  his  sheep,  ages  ago." 

"Did  you  chase  his  sheep?" 

"No.  Of  course  we  didn't.  They  started  to  run  because  they 
saw  Pidgeon  coming,  and  Roddy  ran  after  them  till  we  told  him 
not  to.    The  mean  beast  said  we'd  made  Mary's  lamb  die  by  fright- 


The    Little    Review  55 


sning  its  mother.  When  he  only  gave  it  her  because  he  knew  it 
(wouldn't  live.     Then  he  said  we'd  frightened  Aunt  Bella." 

Mary  stared  at  them,  fascinated. 

"Oh,  Mark,  was  Aunt  Bella  ill?" 

"Of  course  she  wasn't.  She  only  says  she's  going  to  be,  to 
ceep  you  quiet." 

"Well,"  said  Mamma,  "she  won't  be  frightened  any  more. 
Se'll  not  ask  you  again." 

"We  don't  care,  he's  not  a  bit  of  good.  He  won't  let  us  ride 
lis  horses  or  climb  his  trees  or  fish  in  his  stinking  pond." 

"Let  Mary  go  there,"  said  Dank.  "She  likes  it.  She  kisses 
Pidgeon." 

"I  don't,  she  cried.  "I  hate  Pidgeon,  I  hate  Uncle  Edward 
ind  Aunt  Bella.     I  hate  Mrs.  Fisher." 

Mamma  looked  up  from  her  flower-pot,  and,  suddenly,  she 
ipas  angry. 

"For  shame!  They're  kind  to  you^'^  she  said.  "You  little 
laughty,  ungrateful  girk" 

"They're  not  kind  to  Mark  and  Dank.  That's  why  I  hate 
.hem." 

She  wondered  why  Mamma  was  not  angry  with  Mark  and 
Dank,  who  had  let  Ponto  loose  and  frightened  Aunt  Bella. 

to  be  continued 


NOTES   ON  MUSIC  AND  THE   THEATRE 

(and    the    Critics) 
Margaret  Anderson 

yiticism  in  Chicago 

To  read  the  book  pages  of  the  Chicago  newspapers  has  sud- 
lenly  become  a  matter  of  sharp  irritation  to  me.  They  have  always 
).een  bad,  since  Francis  Hackett  and  Floyd  Dell  did  for  the  Chicago 
iveniiig  Post  what  no  one  in  this  country  has  managed  to  do.  They 
I  mean  the  newspapers)  have  been  too  bad  for  irritation  in 
heir  recent  droolings  about  James  Joyce  and  their  nauseating  p.er- 
lonal  publicity  that  has   served  as  literary  notes.     But   the  clippings 


56  The    Little    Review 

1  have  seen  from  the  Tribune,  the  Post  and  the  News  for  the  las 
two  weeks,  and  which  bear  at  least  some  signs  of  mental  activity 
leave  me  far  more  annoyed.  They  revive  in  me  a  memory  of  cham 
pioning  the  "new"  against  the  "old" — two  words  I  no  longer  use 
just  as  I  no  longer  talk  of  the  distinction  between  radical  and  con 
servative,  now  that  I  have  learned  the  stupidities  shared  in  commoi 
by  these  two  great  classes   of  unborn  people.  f 

But  perhaps  "new"  and  "old"  can  be  found  to  have  further  mean 
ing.  I  know  that  when  James  Huneker  writes  rhaposodies  abou 
Mary  Garden's  art  in  the  New  York  Times  I,  who  believe  in  Mar 
Garden's  genius,  am  left  embarrassed  and  amused  and  bewildered 
The  mind  that  writes  seems  not  so  much  inept  as  it  seems  just  old 
it  talks  of  values  that  are  no  longer  the  concern  of  aesthetics;  wha 
Mary  Garden  doesn't  do,  and  never  can  do,  it  finds  some  imaginar 
reason  to  applaud;  what  she  does  do,  the  whole  particular  realm  o 
her  expression,  it  passes  by  as  innocently  as  if  it  had  never  observei 
her.  This  kind  of  oldness  of  the  mind(  and  many  quite  young  peopl 
have  it)  makes  a  man  like  Huneker  say:  "Matzenauer  is  more  exotic 
—  a  sentence  without  meaning,  however  you  may  stretch  it:  not  tha 
Mary  Garden  is  exotic,  but  that  "exotic"  can  no  longer  be  applied  t( 
things  of  obvious  warmth  and  patent  emotions.  This  kind  of  oldnes 
makes  a  critic  like  Huneker  trace  the  Wagnerian  influence  in  Debussy 
Conceive  it!  W'hat  has  a  "new"  mind  to  say  about  these  things 
It  says:  Wagner  was  the  kind  of  man  whose  music  is  a  cry;  Debuss; 
is  the  kind  of  man  whose  music  is  a  call;  two  human  beings  can't  b 
more  separated  than  by  this  difiference;  two  artists  can't  be  mor 
divergent,  can't  have  less  to  give  each  other.  It  says:  Wagner' 
"Tristan"  was  so  foreign  to  anything  Debussy  would  feel  that  th 
latter  probably  thought  the  Tristan  story  had  never  been  conceivei 
in  music:  and  was  at  work  on  a  "Tristan"  of  his  own  that  woul< 
have  as  little  relation  to  "the  Wagnerian  as  a  trained  person  has  t< 
an  obvious  one. 

It  is  this  kind  of  irritation  I  get  from  Burton  Rascoe,  John  V.  A 
Weaver,  Susan  Wilbur,  et  al.  Henry  Blackman  Sell  of  course  is  no 
even  in  the  running.  Llewellyn  Jones  has  always  had  this  red-flag 
quality  to  me,  except  when  he  writes  of  the  things  he'  knows  about 
the  mind  of  man,  for  instance,  or  Walter  De  La  Mare's  poetry.  Bu 
when  all  these  people  talk  of  the  "art"  of  AlfredKreymborg,  Conra( 
Aiken,   Robert   Nichols  .  .   .    !     I  have  nothing  against   Kreymborg'i 


■.i?u-- 


The    Little    Review  57 

work  except  that  it  has  neither  art  nor  ideas:  it  has  a  whimsicality 
uliich  I  don't  call  humour  but  the  indication  of  a  carefully  made 
fictitious  goal.  I  have  nothing  against  Aiken's  work  except  that  on 
occasion  he  likes  to  glorify  the  average  man;  I  have  nothing  against 
Robert  Nichols'  work  except  that  a  poet  simply  cannot  belong  to  the 
Georgians,  today,  and  write  Georgian  verse,  without  being  unaware 
of  the^currents  that  have  swept  through  modern  life. 

And  when  these  same  critics  devote  their  time  to  damning  Ezra 
Pound,  I  turn  to  Pound  with  great  relief.  His  mind  seems  to  be  in 
tempo.  He  has  a  quality  of  thought.  Barring  two  things  —  his 
wearisome  vituperations  of  a  country  and  a  people  beneath  his  no- 
lice,  and  his  complete  lack  of  ideas  about  the  war  —  Pound  is  inter- 
oting.  He  knows  what  is  happening  in  the  world,  what  has  hap- 
pened and   something  of  what  is  likely   to  happen. 

Of  course  in  talking  of  these  irritations  I  am  talking  of  very 
simple  propositions.  Many  people  decide  that  they  will  be  artists. 
To  them  there  is  nothing  naive  in  this.  They  believe  it  is  possible. 
I  shall  content  myself  with  saying  that  this  is  not  the  way  it  happens 
with  a  James  Joyce;  and  that  even  if  it  does  so  happen  with  an 
Ezra  Pound,  at  least  Pound  has  enough  brains  to  make  the  process 
interesting:  chiefly  I  suppose  because  he  knows  that  no  belief  in  the 
commonplace  and  no  glorificaiton  of  it  will  make  a  man's  work 
anything  but   transient,   undistinguished,   and   unworthy. 

Because  we  insist  that  a  thing  must  have  some  contact  with 
eternal  essences,  the  Little  Rei'iezv  is  described  as  having  an  awful 
"solemnity".  And  magazines  like  the  Playboy  are  started  to  correct 
this  condition  by  giving  every  one  a  chance  to  be  as  happily  shallow 
and  mediocre*as  possible.  Nearly  every  one  has  these  potentialities. 
I  can't  see  why  exalt  them. 

.'i.s-  One  Would  Not 

Harriet  Monroe  came  to  town  and  talked  to  the  Poetry  Society 
—  or  to  some  kind  of  society  that  I  am  fortunate  enough  to  avoid 
instinctively.  But  I  had  a  little  talk  with  her  one  morning  which  we 
could  have  made  into  a  "solemn"  discussion,  until  I  promised  to 
sjjare  her  the  boredom  of  my  repetitious  remarks  about  what  is  and 
what  is  not  Art.  She  was  saying  "And  you  don't  like  Galli-Curci? 
Jo  me  she  is  really  an  artist  in  her  sligiht,  rococo  way".  And,  when 
J    objected:   "I   mean   just  as   Louis   Quinze   furniture   is   art".     I    ob- 


58  The    Little    Review 

jected  again.  "Of  course  that  is  an  unfortunate  example  :  I  didn't 
mean  anything  so  artificial  as  Louis  Quinze".  I  objected  again.  And 
then  we  laughed  and  let  it  go. 

But  all  this  might  serve  as  an  explanation  of  why  I  wanted  to 
start  a  Little  Rcviezv.  namely,  that  when  you  talk  of  Galli-Curci  or 
Caruso  or  McCormack,  etc..  etc.,  you  are  not  talking  of  anything  that 
has  to  do  with  the  old  fiery  fountains  except  to  remind  you  again 
that  they  are  far  off;  that  when  you  think  of  Louis  Quinze  furniture 
as  Art  you  are  destroying  all  separations  between  craft  and  aesthetics; 
and  when  you  call  such  furniture  or  such  a  period  artificial  you  are 
destroying  all  the  finer  possibilities  of  thought.  A  group  of  Russians 
killing  themselves  over  the  problem  of  the  universe  can  be  just  as 
artificial  as  the  spectacle  of  Louis'  court  laughing  its  way  to  death. 
Manners  are  not  the  criterion  of  artificiality. 

Susan  Glas pell's  New  Play 

The  Provincetown  Players  have  just  given  Susan  Glaspell's 
"Bernice".  It  made  a  stir  among  the  intellectuals,  and  the  critics 
uptown  praised  it  highly  —  which  is  very  good.  They  even  discovered 
that  Ida  Rauh  can  act,  —  which  is  also  good. 

But  I  am  interested  in  this  play  as  a  very  fine  example  of  a  piece 
of  work  without  content.  It  .is  well-written,  it  was  well  presented; 
it  is  an  interesting  idea  to  focus  three  acts  upon  the  interval  between 
a  woman's  death  and  her  funeral,  showing  the  effect  of  this  catas- 
tropihe  upon  her  husband,  her  best  woman  friend,  her  father,  her 
husband's  sister,  and  the  family  maid-of-all-work.  I  sat  tense  with 
interest  up  to  the  middle  of  the  last  act.  The  alleged  drarna  centers 
in  the  husband.     But  there  is  no  drama.     This  is  all  I  wish  to  prove. 

You  must  either  work  through  cause  and  effect  to  get  drama,  or 
you  must  present  dramatically  the  foibles  of  a  human  being  who 
dramatizes  himself  with  charm,  intelligence,  or  power;  or  a  human 
being  who  tries  to  dramatize  himself  and  fails;  or  any  of  the  varia- 
tions upon  this  material.  All  playwrights  who  deal  with  ideas  as  much 
— perhaps  I  should  say  with  general  ideas, — or  with  propaganda, 
work  in  the  first  realm.  Susan  Glaspell  does.  Therefore  she  must 
present  some  intellectual  or  psychic  conflict. 

Taking  for  her  hero  a  man  without  power  she  gives  him  power 
througli  the  report,  carefully  arranged  for  by  the  wife  before  she  dies, 
that   she   has   killed   herself   because   she   loves   him.      Such   an   idea- 


The    Little    Review  59 


hat  a  person  without  power  ever  gains  it  through  any  source — is 
I  lie.  And  you  can't  make  drama  out  of  this  kind'  of  lie  without 
jiving  your  discriminating  audience  the  feeling  that  your  play  is 
ivithout  context.  Don't  you  see,  Susan  Glaspell?  You  can  make  a 
drama  out  of  it  by  having  your  hero  subconsciously  aware  of  what 
he  is  doing— and  you  can  do  this  without  going  into  farce;  or  you 
can  make  him  a  man  who  is  not  "on"  to  himself,  as  you  did,  and  who 
makes  his  elaborate  dramatization  of  himself  quite  unconsciously:  but 
some  one  must  be  "on"  to  what  is  happening, — either  a  character  in 
the  iplay  or  you  yourself  when  you  write. 

I  have  just  touched  the  fringe  of  the  discussion.  I  wish  you 
would  take  it  up  with  me. 

Moliere" 

We  were  in  Philadelphia  for  the  second  night  of  Philip  Moeller's 
"Moliere,"  which  opened  at  the  old  Broad  Street  Theatre.  Mr. 
Moeller  happened  to  be  in  the  audience  and  we  caught  him  and 
forced  our  congratulations  upon  him.  He  seemed  a  bit  incredulous 
at  first  and  then  wanted  to  know  why  and  how  we  liked  his  play.  I 
don't  know  why  people  suspect  us  of  never  indulging  in  sentimen- 
tality  or   the   other   human    emotions. 

I  could  only  repeat  "I  really  like  it".  And'  this  is  true.  It  is  a 
good  play  and  at  the  last  curtain  I  wept— in  just  tlie  way  all  play- 
wrights and  producers  must  want  you  to  weep.  I  am  not  joking: 
I  legitimately  wept.  And  I  can  say  nothing  more  without  being 
"solemn." 

To  write  a  play  like  "Moliere"  has  nothing  to  do  with  creation. 
You  start  with  a  love  and  understanding  of  the  life  of  a  great  man. 
You  find  out  all  you  can  about  him.  You  concentrate  the  drama  of 
his  life,  by  skillful  manipulation,  into  a  three-hour  picture.  You  take 
much  care  for  the  way  it  shall  be  told — for  the  economy  and  beauty 
of  your  lines,  etc.,  etc.  All  this  demands  much  efifort  and  much  skill. 
Of  course  people  like  it.    Everyone  likes  a  good  story,  well  illustrated. 

Henry  Miller  as  Moliere  looked  rather  squat  in  the  first  two  acts, 
and  like  Christ  in  the  last  one.  Blanche  Bates  should  score  a  hit: 
she  does  what  is  known  as  good  emotional  acting:  the  only  strange 
thing  to  me  was  that  the  emotions  registered  in  such  an  unrelated, 
American  manner.  Holbrook  Blinn  as  Louis  the.  Grand  suggested  a 
kind  of  plain  business-suit  aggressiveness  and  a  war-time  econom_y 
of  royalty. 


6o  The    Little    Review 


— __^ 

Mrs.  Fiskc 

Mrs.  Fiske  in  "Mis"  Nellie  of  N'  Orleans"  is  doing  a  delightfi 
thing:  playing  the  kind  of  woman  who  knows  how  to  train  h» 
r.atural  charm  into  an  effective  self-dramatization.  Since  this  is  a 
most  ne*'er  met  with  in  x\merican  life  you  had  better  see  all  of  it  yc 
can  on  the  stage. 

The  Philadelphia  Orchestra  I 

I  aim  glad  to  say  without  reservation  that  the  greatest  music, 
experience  I  have  had  for  three  or  four  years  (since  I  heard  Scriabin 
"Prometheus  "  played)  was  Leopold  Stokowski's  conducting  of  th; 
composer's  "Poeme  d'  Extase."  The  Philadelphia  Orchestra  mvti 
rank  next  to  the  Boston:  it  is  certainly  the  best  I  have  heard,  wit 
that  exception.  Stokowski  is  full  of  nuance,  and  musical  to  the  poii 
of  looking  it.  His  muscular  articulation  is  entirely  rhythmical,  - 
beautiful   to   see,— and   he    conducts   always   without   a    score. 

Olga  Samaroff  played  with  him  on  this  occasion.  One  canm 
write  of  her  in  relation  to  the  newer  developments  of  the  piano.  H< 
playing  is  built  upon  the  older  standards, — like  that  of  Gabrilowitsc] 
for  example.  They  play  always  with  an  inflexibility  that  allows  tf 
piano  only  about  half  its  full  vibrations.  Bauer  has  shown  pianrsi 
how  to  correct  this.  I  wonder  why  any  one  playing  the  piano  toda 
fails  to  take  advantage  of  his  illustration.  I  shall  not  go  into  detail 
though  I  should  like  to.  However  (if  there  is  any  interest  in  th 
subject  anywhere  in  the  country — if  one  person  encourage?  me  t 
take  me  up — I  shall  write  an  article  for  the  next  number  that  ougl 
to  be  interesting. 

Arthur  Rubinstein 

There  has  been  a  small  furore  about  Rubinstein,  but  he  has  Ji 
important  difference.  His  virtuosity  is  astounding,  and  New  Yor 
simply  will  not  "rave"  a'bout  anything  except  virtuosity.  He  ha 
other  qualities,  but  not  in  a  degree  to  place  him  beside  Cortot  c 
Bauer. 

"Pelleas  et  Melisande" 

The  French  Theatre,  under  the  direction  of  Jacques  Copeau,  pii 
on   a  performance  of  "Pelleas"  that  was  distinguished   for   the  lieaut. 


The    Little    Review  6i 


its  setting  and  the  incongruity  of  its  cast.  The  Melisande  was  a 
isk  and  practical  person,  with  Slavic  cheek  bones  and  the  general 
anner  of  a  Dutch  peasant.  (Mary  Garden  had  done  it  the  week 
fore  with  the  Chicago  Opera  Company.  It  took  courage  to  look  at 
e  French  Theatre's  cast).     The  Pelleas  was  a  hardy  young  man. 

THE  READER  CRITIC 

oncerning  certain  effusions  of  the 
-Chicago    Daily    News"    correspondent 

ra  Pound,  London: 

Dear  M.  C.  A.:  Has  your  friend  Hecht  a  reputation  for  veracity 
the  United  States? 

The    De   Gourmont   Number 

lien  West  Heller,  Canton,  Illinois: 

The  De  Gourmont  number,  great!  I  do  not  just  admit  the  fine- 
3S  of  Ezra  Pound.  I  am  glad  of  him.  What  Roger  Heller  calls  his 
undigrams  are  a  delight,  but  chiefly  he  is  a  Great  Appreciator. 

It  IS  a  joy  to  iind  so  exquisite  a  master  of  the  exquisite  dififeren- 
tions  of  the  English  language.  More,  his  thought  has  such  urge 
fine  distinctions  that  only  one  speech  irks  him;  he  must  be  a 
aucer  to  an  amalgam-  of  the  speech  of  two  peoples. 

All  languages  coalesced  will  be  none  too  ample  for  the  intense 
nplexity  of  future  thought.  All  languages  and  all  arts  are  not 
nigh  with  which  to  declare  the  sensings  that  wriggle  within  us. 
_  l-:zra  Pound  and  Margaret  Anderson  are  administering  the  future 
readers  in  this  country.  The  English  speaking  denizens  of  the 
S.  have  been  nursed  by  their  silly  eagle  so  long  that  it  goes  hard 
h  them  to  have  to  learn  something.  But  they  probably  will  be 
npelled   to  swallow  the   cosmopolitan  pill. 

"Gourmont's  essays  the  best  record  of  the  civilized  mind  from 
5-T915-"  From  the  excerpts  here  given  de  Gourmont  would  seem 
be  a  condensed,  transmuted  record  of  Max  Stirner's  "Ego  and  his 
■n."  The  War  of  the  White  Races  was  fought,  is  fighting,  against 
ee  books:  '"Der  Einzige  Und  Sein  Eigenthum",  "Also'  Sprach 
athustra",  "Das  Kapital";  and  the  greatest  of  these  is  "Der  Ein- 
i  Und   Sein    Eigenthum''. 


62  T  he  Lit  tie  R  e  view 


Anent  Frederic  Manning:  "The  ritual  invariably  precedes  t 
legend;  which  explains  it,  and  all  ritual  is  magic.  Sculpture  on 
inates  as  a  feature  of  magical  rites  and  ceremonies." 

No.  First  a  story  is  told.  Probably  primitive  utilitarnianism  ( 
veloped  gesture  before  speech.  (When  you  want  to  know  what  pri 
itive  man  did  in  a  given  situation  go  ask  the  animals  and  the  babie 
Not  to  go  back  quite  so  far  we  will  assume  speech.  A  story  t( 
and  retold  becomes  a  legend.  Develops,  a  disposition  to  beguile  oi 
self  and  others,  to  lend  variety  to  expression  and  so  excite  admiratii 
In  obedience  to  these  impulses  the  story  is  play-acted  out.  That 
the  dance,  the  song,  the  game.  The  first  drawing  or  carving  woi 
be  merely  a  story  told  through  fingers  instead  of  lips  and  hence 
kind   of  gesture.     A   permanent   gesture. 

Out  of  the  dance,  the  song,  the  game,  the  carving,  was  eventua 
fabricated  the  ritual,  but  a  ritual  implies  a  composite  tradition  wh 
in  turn  implies  an  organized  society.     The  ritual  must  be  a  late  sot 
development.      People  lived   and   amused   themselves   before  they 
veloped  organization.     Also  they  must  have  lived  and  amused  th( 
selves  before  they  acquired  a  speculative  disposition  and  there  co 
be  no   concept  of  the  supernatural  until  speculation   had   brewed 
long.     The  notion   of  parley  or  bargain  with  the  supernatural  wc 
come  later  still.     Out  of  this  notion   develops  magic.      Magic  is 
appropriation    to    dealings   with    the    Unknown    of    the    various    acci 
plishments   of  which   primitive   humans   found    themselves   capablf 
including  their  sexual  accomplishments.     Established  magic   is   ril 

Upon  the  ritual  was  grafted  the  priest, — an  individual  who  i 
ized  it  as  a  prerogative,  to  his  own  personal  advantage.  The  pi 
as  the  head  of  the  family.  The  priesthood  was  the  first  master  c 
of  a  society  which  had  outgrown  family   outlines. 

The  Maories'  was  a  late  civilization.  To  cite  the  Maories  in 
connection  with  prmitive  mind  indicates  what  is  called  ins 
thinking. 

The  schoolmen's  defintion  of  Physics:  "The  science  of  molec 
masses  and  the  ether."  This  argumentation  of  Frederic  Mam 
provokes  a  reminder  of  the  definition  William  Suddards  was  won 
give  to  his  classes:  "Physics  is  the  Science  of  how  to  grab  hoi 
things  and  push  them."  This  definition  of  the  Science  of  Physi( 
the  definition  of  the  Science  of  Living  and  human  beings  acqu 
some    knowledge    of    this    science    of    living    long    ages    before 


The    Little    Review  63 

acquired  a  ritual   of  magical   rites.     Mr.   Manning  does  not   start  his 
argument  far  enough   back  ihy  many  thousands   of  years. 
His  Rhapsody  on  the   Hand  is  a  poem. 

An    Open    Letter    to 
William    Carlos    Williams 

Sta)iislaw  Szukalski,  Chicago: 

As  some  of  my  friends  know  I  hardly  ever  read  any  book,  and 
especially  "poetry",  because  all  those  who  write  them  are  trying  so 
pathetically  to  make  real  poetry,  real  music,  real  art  —  whatever  is 
their  shape  of  self-expresion  —  that  their  attempts  seem  so  lieful  in 
sincerity  that  it  is  embarassing  to  any  one  who  tries  to  express  him- 
self in  easiest  way  he  can.  .  .  for  one  who  measures  his  work  not  to 
size  of  "Art"  but  to  pleasure  it  brings  to  his  lazy  self. 

But!  it  happens  once  in  time  to  time  that  some  person  whom  I 
call  friend  reads  to  me  something  that  he  thinks  I  like.  And  so!  our 
friend  Bill  of  pomgranite  smile  read  to  me  some  of  your  printed 
thoughts  and  gave  me  great  holiday,  for  it  is  much  good  to  hear 
liquid  sound  following  from  sea-shell  than  tick-tacks  of  manikin's 
mouth  wound  by  critics  of  passing  fashion. 

Much  good!  I  say  is  to  see  some  one  or  two  to  be  free  from 
"goose  step"  of  "progress",  who  forgets  that  he  is  to  think  accord- 
ingly to  emotional  dictates  of  conservative  or  radical  commandments. 
Intellect  which  is  armoured  in  rubber  plates  from  which  all  rotten 
tomatoes  as  well  as  stones  bounce  off  and  who  at  same  time  is  un- 
aware of  direction  from  which  attacked  he  was,  and  still  is  able  to 
remain  flexible  to  his  own  logic's  imposition,  he  is  free: 

Much  good  it  is  to  see  one  do  what  he  alive  wishes  and  has  smile 
for  all  those  who  condemn  or  advise.  What  do  they  know?  Who 
are  they?  Wliere  did  they  steal  that  brain  or  who  gave  it  to  them? 
Those  critics  —  they  are  only  parasites,  bull-flies  sitting  on  horse's 
rear  and  criticising  food  they  get  in  borrowed  blood  from  horse, 
with  which  they  fill  their  belly,  then  stand  against  sun's  light  and 
show  it  to  earth-worms  to  admire. 

They  come  to  man  who  is  especially  endowed  to  hear  and  hears 
best  of  all,  and  they  come  with  their  usual  human  ears  and  tell  him 
how  to  listen;  and  because  of  popular  education  they  acquire  know- 
ledge of  all  available  words  and  because  of  easier  communication 
they  go  to  Paris  or  London  vvhere  wheat  is  made  into  rice  and  then 


64  T  h  e    Li  t  tie    Review 

they  begin  to  astonish  their  home-left  friends  with  their  well-adopted 
and  well-developed  intellectual  jugglerism.  Just  think  my  friend!  of 
their  success  if  being  in  London  they  were  "coming"  from  Zooloo- 
land  instead  of  well-started  America.  Think  my  friend  how  they 
would  be  appreciated  by  earth-worms  and  applauded. 

I  believe  that  you  will  appreciate  that  I  do  not  classify  you 
among  "'artists"  of  different  types,  for  one  who  is  "considered"  to  be 
one  by  those  who  "know"  is  not  one  upon  whom  I  would  like  to  put 
my  hand,  for  they  are  under  spell  of  parasitic  plague  of  cultured 
shepherds  or  under  (in  Little  Review)  intellectual  dandruff  of  Ezra 
Pound.  .  .  and  if  they  do  classify  you  in  spite  of  your  objections  I 
say  "Forgive  them  for  they  do  not  know  what  they  print"  (French 
number  of  Little  Revieiv),  and  if  subscriibers  will  read  their  accttsa- 
tion  I  say  "do  not  fear  for  they  do  not  know  what  they  read  anyway". 

Sentimental    Progression    of 
Unchemical    Love 

This  is  the  cataclysm.  The  woods  exhibit  a  compassion  for 
colors,  regardless  of  the  grey  grasses.  Concessions  of  magnanimity 
astound  a  red  soil,  recollecting  the  fontaine  puissance.  One  accom- 
panies an  excessive  thought  when  the  realization  comes  of  countless 
oranges  and  sums,  the  ancients  say. 

You  are  bending  isoclinal  to  the  temperature  of  moons — and  this 
a  stenographic  panorama  of  romance.  Hi,  hi,  the  fool  stertorus,  the 
morbid  activity  of  cartiledge  in  some  astral  france. 

One  muses  on  tactile  fabrics  as  over  leaves.  They  are  a  marginal 
annotation  on  an  internal  dream.  Electric  wires  pulsate  in  thin- 
lipped  rooms,  where  a  witch  passes  through  on  a  memory  of  brooms. 

Mastery  of  conscience  depicts  an  aptitude  for  chance,  in  the  mur- 
murs of  a  coagulated  dissipation.  To  a  boy  it's  the  mud  on  a  girl's 
breasts,  when  the  passion  deliberates  into  age-long  delays.  Dripping 
frankincense  about  a  female  soul.  We  still  shall  know  the  multiplici- 
ties  of  rectitude  in  greys. 

R.  Reiss. 

Note 

We  had  to  make  some  changes  in  our  program  this  month. 
The  Mary  Garden  article  is  still  to  come. 


T6  Do  you  know  anything  more  annoying  or 

Q  more  ageing  than   to  have  your  friends 

discover  for  you  those  cherished  things  in 
Readers  Art  which  you  should  have  discovered  for 

yourself? 

The  Little  Review  is  giving  its  readers  an 
opportunity  to  make  their  own  discoveries. 
There  is  no  magazine  in  America  which 
has  on  its  staff  such  an  important  line-up 
of  known  genius  and  the  "yet  unknowns". 

If  you  have  any  friends  who  are  not 
entrenched  in  mediocrity,  definitely  pro- 
tecting themselves  against  good  literature, 
tell  them  to  subscribe  to  The  Little  Review. 
Or  send  us  their  names  and  we  will  mail 
them  sample  copies. 

The  Little  Review  is  doing  some  intensive 
growing  this  spring.  We  have  great 
plans  for  enlarging  our  format  and  giving 
you  the  best  creative  work  that  is  being 
produced  here  and  in  Europe,  written 
without  an  eye  on  the  established  pub- 
lisher, and  not  garbled  in  editorial  rooms 
to  meet  the  ta&te  of  the  average  mind. 

Send  us  the  names  of  any  people  you 
think  will  be  interested.  We  will  appre- 
ciate it. 


PLAYBOY 

A  NEW  MAGAZINE  OF  SPIRITUAL 
ADVENTURE,    DEDICATED    TO 
JOYOUSNESS   IN    THE   ARTS. 
GIVEN    OVER    TO  YOUTH    AND 
JOCUNDITY. 

Two  Fifty  for  12  Numbers, 
One  Dollar  for  4  Numbers, 
If  You  mention  "The  Little  Review". 

PLAYBOY:  Edited  and  Published  by  EGMONT  ARENS,  ant 
Printed  by  him  at  the  Washington  Square  Book  Shoj 
under  the  Sign  of  the  Flying  Stag,  which  is  in 
17  West  Eight  Street,  New  York. 


THE  STRADIVARI  US  OF   PIANOS 

313   HFTH   AVENUE 
NEW   YORK 


■•*i 


