P- 

m 


THE  LIBRARY 
OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


Ol 

a^a  Oat/Lewi 


VOLUME  I 


G/olt   ana  OaM/atvt 


ol/c 


TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  ORIGINAL 


VOLUME  I 


,   <jnc. 


cix>naon   ana    c/CcMJ     /jotic 


COPYRIGHT,  1922,  BY 
THE  ALEXANDRIAN  SOCIETY,  IKC. 


PRINTED    IX    THE    UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA 


This  work  is  strictly  limited  to  twelve 
hundred  and  fifty  numbered  sets,  which  are 
for  sale  only  to  subscribers.  The  type  has 
been  distributed  on  publication  and  no  more 
will  be  printed. 


Copy  No. 


College 
library 


FOREWORD 

THIS  very  fine  and  accurate  translation  of  The  Lives  of  Fair 
and  Gallant  Ladies  was  made  by  Mr.  A.  R.  Allinson  and 
because  of  its  merit  must  be  considered  one  of  the  great  Eng- 
lish translations,  equalling  in  every  quality  those  of  the  16th 
and  17th  centuries.  The  text  of  Brantome's  great  work  is 
given  practically  complete  in  these  volumes  and  the  only  modi- 
fications are  based  upon  good  taste  and  not  on  any  fearful 
prudery.  A  few  of  Brantome's  examples  that  illustrate  his 
points  belong  more  in  a  treatise  on  abnormal  pathology  than 
in  a  book  of  literary  or  historical  interest  and  value,  so  nothing 
of  any  value  isi  lost  by  omitting  them.  The  rare  charm, 
shrewd  wisdom,  amusing  anecdote,  literary  merit  and  histori- 
cal and  social  information  will  be  appreciated  by  intelligent 
readers. 

The  cover  design  used  on  this  book  was  made  by  C.  O. 
Czeschka. 


• 

JLO 


i   B 


fc 

A  V       sJ  • 


.,      ,    £          Jttti<fttej  d(  CC4  dittoes  Jlo,nailtcf  JMlonfatCHftrcj  pnrtt* 

*     \    *  *J+  »  *r 

\  v  r      Hr"?  att^fe\  v»  *»"  *****  M  teftpetCt* 

d  K  V      ft*"1"  ***!***  f M  ^  «l»"*»"/^w  ^f«  AWMMI  ^/»t, 

^>  V    ^  Ovfutti  tf£hr  (u&h.  en  pf+ftfli*,  tCfrctfrrprc*  *fc 

H   *'    *  *>4'  //  »      ^if 

f.til'f  J,yintt^  •tt'itif  ati'lffUYtllutv  n#r  £&JtHt f   ft 

l~     *~  *  /  *^»       *y  ^  L  «-; 

/nf« 


$\?\'*  /  '  '  rpftHt  ft'"    *U  &  v*f  Jf  flAwm  (Vcf  en  Jif  thief 

Fvi!  X  ^"  ^7  /          /•  "      •    i  «  .^  t 

x\;\>   ^x         ^  £r^<.f  »icrc\  *V*p*  tvnr**t>Y  iC.Jtt9tt  fa  «S  ^«(&/<wt- 
l    X    k  Af.iirt  .icci  wla  JAMH  ft  fan  f»  tome?  ft  i-t(hcmefti~~ 

\  k  ^  {*"$**"***  p****  ^*J*>*k  -JM  's*y  *"j  J"v  «. 

\^^C^  /menus  L&ivh-vfci  met  Cn^f^fttmj  4mfm  jut  *ntjr 


l 

\  - 

^  /menus  L&ivh-vfci  met  Cn^f^fttmj  4mfm  jut  *ntjr 

.XYs.  >  Jeuifionf  Ci>  fan$i  4inC\  &}  JVMSftttf  niirujt  *H*Jt« 

v\  l^     ^  //            *•              '.l/t"C'                      M. 

^.  \>»^  jfipt  u\$yt»  tG&iithcu  HHtti  e»frc  JU*x  linccu(x 

^  A*11*  1*  £>£  ^         ******  k  bvJ 


V  ^  <^\^  .fa****  fan 
\  (K  ^\\^6/        "  i 
\  ^  V^s,^1^*'  4*  "' 


*        vwtf 

JM  H 
I 


1 

' 


^      ^  1^  j*r£n<k  t*>  tv 

V    $-J"$  *n  bctu 


ct 


\ 


'  ~        'Ztt 


x.   VH*tn  W>r  iflc  prtf  far  JM& 
^*  f' 


^ 


BRANTOME'S  HANDWRITING. 

(From  a  fac-simile  page  of  the  manuscript 

Recueil  des  Dames.    Biblio.  Nat:  Mss.  Nouv.  fses. 

No.  20-474,  folio  163.) 


DEDICATION 

TO  MONSEIGNEUR  LE  DUC  D'ALENCON 

OF    BRABANT    AND    COUNT   OF    FLANDERS 

SON  AND  BROTHER  OF  OUR  FRENCH  KINGS 

MY  GRACIOUS  LORD, 

EEING  how  you  have  full  often  done  me  the 
honour  at  Court  to  converse  with  me  in  great 
privity  of  sundry  jests  and  merry  tales,  the 
which  are  so  familiar  and  ready  with  you 
they  may  well  be  said  to  grow  apace  before  men's  very 
eyes  in  your  Lordship's  mouth,  so  great  your  wit  is  and 
so  keen  and  subtile,  and  your  speech  the  same,  and  right 
eloquent  to  boot, — for  this  cause  have  I  set  me  to  indite 
these  discourses,  such  as  they  be,  to  the  best  of  my  poor 
ability,  to  the  end  that  in  this  wise  some  of  them  may 
please  you,  making  the  time  to  pass  lightly  and  reminding 
you  of  me  in  your  conversations,  wherewith  erstwhile 
you  have  honoured  me  as  much  as  any  gentleman  of  all 
the  Court. 

To  you  then,  my  Lord,  do  I  dedicate  this  present  book, 
and  do  beseech  you  fortify  the  same  with  your  name  and 
authority,  till  that  I  may  find  leisure  to  attend  to  dis- 
courses of  a  more  serious  content.  Of  such  I  pray  you 
note  one  in  especial,  the  which  I  have  all  but  finished, 

[vii] 


r/*\vwhVrt;/-rt[wi!/gvi,r«w^ 


!&%t^^g&<!^[^l^l^!^l&4!w^^ 


wherein  I  do  deduce  a  comparison  of  six  great  Princes 
and  Captains  that  be  to-day  abroad  in  this  our  Christen- 
dom, to  wit:  the  King  Henri  III.  your  brother,  Your 
Highness'  self,  the  King  of  Navarre  your  brother-in-law, 
the  Due  de  Guise,  the  Due  de  Maine,  and  the  Prince  of 
Parma,  making  record  for  each  one  of  you  of  your  noblest 
deeds  of  valour  and  high  emprize,  of  your  excellencies  and 
exploits,  the  full  tale  and  complement  whereof  I  do  re- 
sign to  others  better  qualified  than  I  to  indite  the  same. 

Meanwhile,  My  Lord,  I  do  beseech  God  to  bless  you 
always  more  and  more  in  your  greatness,  happiness  and 
nobility. 

And  I  am  for  all  time 

Your  very  humble  and  very  obedient  subject  and  very 
loving  servant. 

BOURDEILLE.1 


[viii] 


REGRETTING 

THE  DEATH  OF  THE  DUC  D'ALENCON 

t 

I  had  already  dedicated  this  second  Part  of  my  Dis- 
courses on  Women  to  the  aforesaid  my  Gracious  Lord 
d'Alen9on,  the  while  he  yet  lived, — seeing  how  he  oft  did 
me  the  honour  to  be  my  friend  and  to  converse  very 
privily  with  me,  and  was  ever  right  curious  to  be  informed 
of  mirthful  tales.  Wherefore,  albeit  his  generous  and 
valorous  and  most  noble  body  hath  fallen  on  the  field  of 
honour,  I  have  not  thought  good  for  that  to  recall  my 
erstwhile  dedication ;  but  I  do  repeat  and  renew  the  same 
to  his  illustrious  ashes  and  noble  spirit,  of  the  valorous- 
ness  whereof  and  of  his  great  deeds  and  high  achievements 
I  do  treat  in  their  turn  among  those  of  the  other  great 
Princes  and  Captains.  For  of  a  truth  he  was  indeed  a 
great  Prince  and  a  great  Captain,  if  such  an  one  there 
was  ever, — the  more  so  considering  he  is  dead  so  un- 
timeously. 

Enough  of  such  serious  themes;  let  us  discourse  a 
while  of  merrier  matters. 


[ix] 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

HISTORICAL  NOTE.     BY  HENRI  VIGNEAU  ....    xiii 

FIRST  DISCOURSE 

OF  LADIES  WHICH  Do  MAKE  LOVE,  AND  THEIR  HUSBANDS 

CUCKOLDS 3 

SECOND  DISCOURSE 

ON  THE  QUESTION  WHICH  DOTH  GIVE  THE  MORE  CON- 
TENT IN  LOVE,  WHETHER  TOUCHING,  SEEING,  OR 
SPEAKING 213 

1.  OF  THE  SENSE  OF  TOUCH  IN  LOVE  ....   215 

2.  OF  THE  POWER  OF  SPEECH  IN  LOVE         .        .        .   226 

3.  OF  THE  POWER  OF  SIGHT  IN  LOVE  ....   233 

THIRD  DISCOURSE 

CONCERNING  THE   BEAUTY   OF   A   FINE   LEG,   AND   THE 

VIRTUE  THE  SAME  DOTH  POSSESS         ....   273 

FOURTH  DISCOURSE 

CONCERNING  OLD   DAMES   AS  FOND  TO   PRACTISE   LOVE 

AS  EVER  THE  YOUNG  ONES  BE 293 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 341 

APPENDIX  A.  BRANTOME,  BY  ARTHUR  TILLEY  .  .  345 
APPENDIX  B.  BRANTOME,  BY  GEORGE  SAINTSBURY  .  351 
NOTES  ....  ,  355 


HISTORICAL  NOTE 

JIERRE  DE  BOURDEILLE,  Abb6  de  Bran- 
tome  et  d'Andre,  Vicomte  de  Bourdeille,  was 
born  in  Perigord,  in  1527,  in  the  reign  of 
Fra^ois  I.  He  early  took  up  the  career  of 
arms,  serving  under  his  friend  Fra^ois  de  Guise,  Duke 
of  Lorraine,  as  his  Captain,  the  same  who  was  killed 
before  Orleans  by  Poltrot  de  Mere.  Afterwards  he  came 
up  to  Court,  and  was  Gentleman  of  the  Bedchamber  un- 
der Charles  IX.,  who  showed  him  much  favour.  On  the 
King's  death  he  retired  to  his  estates,  where  he  composed 
his  Works.  These  are:  Vies  des  hommes  Ulustres  et  des 
grands  capitaines  francois;  Vies  des  grands  capitaines 
Strangers;  Vies  des  dames  Ulustres;  Vies  des  dames 
galantes;  Anecdotes  touchant  le  duel;  and  Rodomontades 
et  jurements  des  Espagnols. — All  that  really  concerns  us 
here  is  the  Vies  des  dames  galantes.  It  is  especially  from 
this  point  of  view  that  we  propose  to  speak  of  Pierre  de 
Bourdeille,  known  almost  exclusively  to  posterity  under 
the  name  of  Brantome.  As  to  his  Essays  in  the  manner 
of  Plutarch,  these  do  not  come  into  our  purview  at  all. 
Besides  which,  I  am  of  opinion,  it  is  in  this  book  that 
Brantome  appears  under  his  most  characteristic  aspect, 
and  that  it  is  here  we  may  best  learn  to  know  and  ap- 
preciate his  genius. 

[xiii] 


rr*itoY^r/s\iYrty^ir^i^^ 


aai^^a^tffiJi^i^!^!^^ 


A  gentleman  of  family,  acknowledged  and  treated  as 
kinsman  by  Queen  Margot,  wife  of  Henry  IV.,  living 
habitually  in  the  society  of  the  most  famous  men  of  his 
time,  a  contemporary  of  Rabelais,  Marot  and  Ronsard, 
a  sincere  but  unbigoted  Catholic,  a  man  of  exceptional 
literary  endowments,  Brantome  is  one  of  the  happiest 
representatives  of  the  French  mind  in  the  XVIth  Century. 

It  is  the  period  of  the  Renaissance, — the  days  when 
Europe  resounds  with  the  fame  of  our  gallant  King 
Francis  I.  and  his  deeds  of  prowess  in  love  and  war, 
the  days  when  Titian  and  Primaticcio  were  leaving  be- 
hind on  French  palace  walls  immortal  traces  of  their 
genius,  when  Jean  Goujon  was  carving  his  admirable 
figures  round  the  fountains  of  the  Louvre  and  across  its 
front,  when  Rabelais  was  uttering  his  stupendous  guffaw, 
that  was  the  Comedy  of  all  human  life,  when  Marot  and 
Ronsard  were  writing  their  graceful  stanzas,  when  the 
fair  "Marguerite  des  Marguerites," — the  Queenly  Pearl 
of  Pearls, — was  telling  her  delightful  tales  of  love  and 
adventure  in  the  Heptameron. — Then  comes  the  death  of 
Francis  I.  His  son  mounts  the  throne.  Protestantism 
makes  serious  progress  in  France,  and  Montgomery  pre- 
cipitates the  succession  of  Francis  II.  This  last  wears 
the  crown  for  one  year  only,  succumbing  to  a  fatal  in- 
flammation of  the  ears.  Then  it  is  Mary  Stuart  leaves 
France  for  ever,  and  with  streaming  eyes,  as  she  watches 
the  beloved  shores  where  she  has  been  Queen  of  France 
fade  out  of  sight,  sings  sad  and  slow : 

Adieu,  plaisant  pays  de  France ! 

And  now  we  find  seated  on  the  throne  of  France  a 
young  Monarch  of  a  strange,  wild,  unattractive  exterior. 

[xiv] 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 


His  eye  is  pale,  colourless  and  shifty,  seeming  to  be  void 
of  all  expression.  He  trusts  no  man,  and  has  no  real 
assurance  of  his  power  as  Sovereign;  he  looks  long  and 
suspiciously  at  those  about  him  before  speaking,  rarely 
bestows  his  confidence  and  believes  himself  constantly 
surrounded  by  spies.  'Tis  a  nervous,  timid  child, — 'tis 
Charles  IX.  History  treats  him  with  an  extreme  severity ; 
and  the  "St.  Bartholomew"  has  thrown  a  lurid  light  over 
this  unhappy  Prince's  figure.  He  allowed  the  massacres 
on  the  fatal  nights  of  the  24th  and  25th  of  August,  and 
even  shot  down  the  flying  Protestants  from  his  palace 
roof.  Without  going  into  the  interminable  discussions 
of  historians  as  to  this  last  alleged  fact,  which  is  as 
strongly  denied  by  some  authorities  as  it  is  maintained 
by  others,  I  am  not  one  of  those  who  say  hard  things 
of  Charles  IX.  It  is  more  a  sentiment  of  pity  I  feel 
for  him, — this  monarch  who  loved  Brantome  and  Marot, 
and  who  protected  Henri  IV.  against  Catherine  de  Medici. 
I  see  him  surrounded  by  brothers  whom  he  had  learned 
to  distrust.  The  Due  d'Alen9on  is  on  the  spot,  a  legiti- 
mate object  of  detestation  by  reason  of  the  subterranean 
intrigues  he  is  for  ever  hatching  against  his  person ;  while 
his  other  brother  Henri  (afterwards  Henri  III.),  Cath- 
erine's favourite  son,  is  in  Poland,  kept  sedulously  in- 
formed of  every  variation  in  the  Prince's  always  feeble 
health,  waiting  impatiently  for  the  hour  when  he  must 
hurry  back  to  France  to  secure  the  crown  he  covets. 
Then  his  sister's  vicious  outbreaks  are  a  source  of  con- 
stant pain  and  anxiety  to  him;  and  last  but  not  least 
there  is  his  mother  Catherine  de  Medici,  an  incubus  that 
crushed  out  his  very  life-breath.  He  cannot  forget  the 
tortures  his  brother  Francis  suffered  from  his  mysteri- 

[xv] 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 


ous  malady,  and  his  premature  death  after  a  single  year's 
reign. 

Catherine  hated  Mary  Stuart,  his  young  Queen,  whose 
only  fault  was  to  have  exaggerated  in  herself  all  the 
frailties  together  with  all  the  physical  perfections  of  a 
woman;  and  dreadful  words  had  been  whispered  with 
bated  breath  about  the  Queen  Mother.  An  Italian,  de- 
prived of  all  power  while  her  husband  lived,  insulted  by  a 
proud  and  beautiful  favourite,  yet  knowing  herself  well 
fitted  for  command,  she  had  brought  up  her  children  with 
ideas  of  respect  and  submission  to  her  will  they  were 
never  able  to  throw  off.  The  ill-will  she  bore  her  daugh- 
ter-in-law was  the  cause  of  all  those  accusations  History 
has  listened  to  over  readily.  But  Charles,  a  nervous, 
affectionate  child,  whose  natural  impulses  however  had 
been  chilled  by  his  mother's  influence  and  the  indifference 
of  his  father  Henri  II.,  was  thrown  back  on  himself,  and 
grew  up  timid,  suspicious  and  morose.  The  frantic  love 
of  Francis  for  his  fascinating  Queen,  the  cold  dignity  of 
Catherine  in  face  of  slights  and  cruel  mortifications,  her 
bitter  disappointment  during  her  eldest  son's  reign,  her 
Italian  origin  (held  then  even  more  than  now  to  imply 
an  implacable  determination  to  avenge  all  injuries),  her 
indifference  to  the  sudden  and  appalling  death  of  the 
young  King,  the  insinuations  of  her  enemies, — all  com- 
bined to  make  a  profound  impression  on  Charles,  giving 
a  furtive  and,  if  we  may  say  so,  a  haggard  bent  to  his 
character.  Presently,  seated  on  the  throne  of  France, 
Huguenots  and  Catholics  all  about  him,  exposed  to  the 
insults  and  pretensions  of  the  Guise  faction  on  the  one 
hand  and  that  of  Coligny  on  the  other,  dragged  now  this 
way  now  that  between  the  two,  yet  all  the  while  instinct- 

[xvi] 


safflaaaffiWM»M>ftffl^^ 

HISTORICAL    NOTE 

ffigmMy^i'MtMiMiMiMity^ 

ively  drawn  toward  the  Catholic  side  by  ancestral  faith 
and  his  mother's  counsels  no  less  than  by  reasons  of 
state,  Charles  signed  the  fatal  order  authorizing  the 
Massacre  of  the  Saint  Bartholomew. 

Was  the  young  King's  action  justifiable  or  no?  It  is 
no  business  of  ours  to  discuss  the  question  here;  but 
much  may  be  alleged  in  his  excuse.  Again  whether  he 
did  actually  fire  on  the  terrified  Protestants  from  the 
Louvre  is  a  point  vehemently  debated, — but  one  it  in 
no  way  concerns  us  here  to  decide.  There  is  no  doubt 
however  that,  dating  from  those  two  terrible  nights,  a 
steady  decline  declared  itself  in  his  health  and  vitality. 
In  no  long  time  he  died;  and  his  brother  Henri,  Duke 
of  Anjou  and  King  of  Poland,  duly  warned  of  his  ap- 
proaching end,  arrived  in  hot  haste  to  take  over  the 
crown  to  which  he  was  next  in  succession. 

This  period  of  political  and  religious  ferment  was  no 
less  the  period  par  excellence  of  gallantry.  In  its  char- 
acteristics it  bears  considerable  resemblance  to  the  days 
of  the  Empire.  At  both  epochs  love  was  quick,  fierce  and 
violent.  Hurry  was  the  mark  of  the  times.  In  the  midst 
of  these  everlasting  struggles  between  Huguenot  and 
Catholic,  who  could  be  sure  of  to-morrow?  So  men  made 
it  a  point  to  indulge  no  attachment  that  was  too  serious, 
— for  them  love  was  become  a  mere  question  of  choice  and 
quantity;  while  women  avoided  a  grand  passion  with  a 
fervour  worthy  of  a  better  cause.  If  ever  a  deep  and 
earnest  passion  does  show  itself,  it  is  an  exception,  an 
anomaly;  if  we  find  a  woman  stabbing  her  faithless  hus- 
band to  death  on  catching  him  in  the  arms  of  another, 
let  us  not  for  an  instant  suppose  'tis  the  fierce  stirring 

[xvii] 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 


of  a  loving  heart  which  in  the  frenzy  of  its  jealousy 
avenges  the  wrong  it  has  suffered, — to  die  presently  of 
sorrow  and  remorse,  or  at  the  least  to  suffer  long  and 
sorely.  This  act  of  daring, — so  carefully  recorded  by 
the  chroniclers  of  the  time, — is  only  the  effect  of  strong 
self-love  cruelly  wounded.  But  powerful  as  this  feeling 
may  be,  it  would  scarcely  be  adequate  to  explain  so 
energetic  an  act,  if  we  did  not  remember  how  frequently 
ladies  in  the  XVIth  Century  were  exposed  to  scenes  of 
bloodshed.  The  dagger  and  the  sword  were  as  familiar 
to  their  eyes  as  the  needle;  and  Brantome  has  devoted  a 
whole  Discourse, — his  Fifth,  to  courageous  dames,  and 
seems  positively  to  scorn  weak  and  timid  women!  How 
opposite  is  this  to  the  sentiment  of  the  present  day, 
where  one  of  the  charms  of  womanhood  is  held  to  consist 
in  her  having  nothing  in  common  with  man  and  being 
for  ever  in  need  of  his  protection.  A  few  isolated  cases 
then  excepted,  there  existed  between  men  and  women  noth- 
ing better  than  what  Chamfort  has  wittily  defined  as 
"1'echange  de  deux  fantaisies  et  le  contact  de  deux  epi- 
dermes," — in  other  words  gallantry  pure  and  simple. 

This  then  was  the  atmosphere  our  Author  breathed. 
His  life  offers  nothing  specially  striking  in  the  way  of 
incident.  No  need  for  me  to  take  him  from  the  arms  of 
his  nurse,  to  follow  each  of  his  steps  through  life  and 
piously  close  his  eyes  in  death.  He  served  his  time  with- 
out special  distinction  or  applause  at  the  Court  of 
Charles  IX.  In  all  he  did,  he  showed  so  modest  a  reserve 
that,  but  for  his  Works,  his  very  existence  would  have 
remained  unknown.  He  is  not  like  Bussy-Rabutin,  the 
incidents  of  whose  wild  and  wicked  life  filled  and  defaced 
a  big  book,  or  like  Tallemant,  whose  diary,  if  diary  it 

[xviii] 


toirrwtrwrrtMr»vir/8tir«M^irsvir^^ 


IKW^^I^l^lJig^l^l^!^!^^ 


can  be  called,  was  written  day  by  day  and  recounted 
each  day's  exploits.  Brantome's  life  and  work  leave  little 
trace  of  his  own  personality,  beyond  the  impression  of  a 
genial,  smiling,  witty '  man  of  the  world.  I  will  be  as 
plain  and  discreet  as  himself,  and  will  make  no  effort  to 
separate  the  Author  from  his  book. 

Brantome  possesses  one  of  those  happy,  gentle,  well 
ordered  natures,  which  systematically  avoid  every  form 
of  excess  and  exaggeration.  His  book  Des  Dames 
Galantes  is  from  beginning  to  end  a  protest  against  im- 
moderate passion.  It  is  above  all  a  work  of  taste.  Its 
seven  Discourses  are  devoted  exclusively  to  stories  of  love 
and  passion,  yet  a  man  must  be  straightlaced  indeed  to 
feel  any  sort  of  repulsion.  Another  extraordinary  merit! 
in  spite  of  the  monotony  of  the  subject  matter,  everlast- 
ingly the  same,  the  reader's  attention  never  flags,  and 
one  tale  read,  he  is  irresistibly  drawn  on  to  make  acquain- 
tance with  the  next. 

Such  praise,  I  am  aware,  is  very  high;  and  especially 
when  we  possess  such  masterpieces  in  this  genre  as  the 
Tales  of  Boccaccio,  of  Pietro  Aretino,  some  of  those  of 
Ariosto,  those  of  Voltaire,  the  short  stories  of  Tallemant 
des  Reaux  and  the  indiscretions  of  the  Histoire  amoureuse 
des  Gaules.  I  name  only  the  most  familiar  examples.  Of 
course  all  these  works  do  not  offer  a  complete  resemblance 
to  the  Vies  des  Dames  Galantes,  but  they  all  belong  to 
the  same  race  and  family.  I  propose  to  say  a  few  passing 
words  of  each  of  these  productions. 

The  most  remarkable  among  all  these  chroniclers  of 
the  frailties  of  the  female  heart  is  undoubtedly  Boccaccio. 
Pietro  Aretino  has  done  himself  an  irreparable  wrong  by 
writing  in  such  a  vein  that  no  decent  man  dare  confess 

[xix] 


gsfflrMmrwwwwwwsBgws^^ 

HISTORICAL    NOTE 

a&aifeaii^ya&ai&a^^ 

to  having  read  him.  Ariosto  is  a  story-teller  only  by  the 
way,  but  then  he  is  worthy  of  all  imitation.  The  Hepta- 
meron  is  a  collection  of  stories  the  chief  value  of  which 
consists  in  a  sensibility  and  charming  grace  that  never 
fail.  Tallemant  tells  a  tale  of  gallantry  between  two 
daintily  worded  sentiments.  Voltaire  in  this  as  in  all 
departments  shows  an  incontestable  superiority  of  wit 
and  verve.  There  is  nothing  new  in  La  Fontaine;  'tis 
always  the  same  wondrous  charm,  so  simple  in  appear- 
ance, so  deep  in  reality.  As  to  Bussy,  a  man  of  the 
world  and  a  gentleman,  but  vicious,  spiteful  and  envious, 
his  Histoire  amoureuse  is  his  revenge  on  mankind,  a  de- 
liberate publication  of  extravagant  personalities  flav- 
oured with  wit. 

Boccaccio,  to  say  nothing  of  his  striking  originality, 
possesses  other  merits  of  the  very  highest  order.  The 
sorrows  of  unhappy  love  are  told  with  genuine  pathos, 
while  lovers'  wiles  and  the  punishments  they  meet  with 
at  once  raise  a  smile  and  provoke  a  resolve  to  profit  by 
such  valuable  lessons.  True  Dioneo's  quaint  narratives 
are  not  precisely  fit  for  ladies'  ears;  yet  so  daintily  are 
they  recounted,  the  most  risque  episodes  so  cleverly 
sketched  in,  it  is  impossible  to  accuse  them  of  indelicacy. 
An  entire  absence  of  bitterness,  a  genial  indulgence  for 
human  weakness,  a  hearty  admiration  of  women  and  a 
doctrine  of  genial  complaisance  as  the  only  possible 
philosophy  of  life,  these  are  the  qualities  that  make  the 
Decameron  the  masterpiece  of  this  kind  of  composition. 

Brantome  has  not  the  same  preponderating  influence 
in  literature  that  Boccaccio  possesses,  but  he  comes  next 
after  him.  The  "Lives  of  Gallant  Ladies"  are  not,  any 
more  than  the  Novelli,  inventions  pure  and  simple;  they 

[xx] 


ffiir/Mr/frr^- :.v^y«Arwttr(^^ 


j^iv^v^i^!^!.^^:.^ 


are  anecdotes,  reminiscences.  The  great  merit  of  these 
Tales  of  Boccaccio  is  the  same  as  that  of  Balzac's  Novels 
or  Moliere's  Comedies, — to  fix  a  character,  to  define  a 
phase  of  manners  in  the  life  of  the  Author's  day;  in  a 
word  to  create  by  induction  and  analogy  a  living  being, 
hitherto  unnoticed  by  every-day  observers,  but  instantly 
recognized  as  lifelike.  This  is  the  true  spirit  of  assimila- 
tion and  generalisation, — the  work  of  genius.  Well!  as 
for  Brantome,  he  is  a  man  of  talent  and  wit,  not  genius. 
We  claim  no  more;  genius  is  not  so  common  as  might  be 
supposed,  if  we  hearkened  to  all  the  acclamations  daily 
raised  round  sundry  statues, — but  plaster  after  all,  how- 
ever cunningly  contrived  to  look  like  bronze. 

Brantome's  fame  is  already  firmly  established.  To  live 
for  two  centuries  and  a  half  without  boring  his  readers; 
above  all  to  be  a  book  that  scholars,  men  of  sober  learn- 
ing and  of  literary  taste,  still  read  in  these  latter  days, 
is  a  success  worthy  of  some  earnest  thought.  This 
chronicle  of  gallantry,  this  collection,  as  the  Author  him- 
self describes  it,  of  happy  tricks  played  on  each  other 
by  men  and  women,  possesses  a  quite  exquisite  flavour 
of  youth  and  freshness, — the  whole  told  with  a  good- 
nature, a  verve,  an  unconventionality,  that  are  inexpres- 
sibly charming.  You  feel  the  characters  living  and 
breathing  through  the  delicate,  pliant  style.  You  see  the 
very  glance  of  a  woman's  eye;  you  hear  her  ardent,  or 
cunningly  alluring,  words.  For  such  as  can  read  with  a 
heart  unstirred,  the  book  is  a  series  of  delicious  surprises. 
Strong  predispositions,  nay !  positive  prejudices,  stand 
in  the  way  of  the  proper  appreciation  of  our  Author. 
Such  is  the  Puritanism  of  language  and  prudery  of  man- 
ners in  our  day,  it  would  seem  prima  facie  an  impossible 

[xxi] 


PfW>ffflff^B7^B?^B?StlffS{Braig^^ 

HISTORICAL    NOTE 

ffiy/j^'^&5SMlM!fcffl^^ 

task  to  popularize  Brantome.  By  common  agreement  we 
speak  of  the  esprit  franfais  as  distinguished  from  the 
esprit  gaulois,  the  latter  term  being  used  to  denote  a 
something  more  frank  and  outspoken.  I  heartily  wish 
the  division  were  a  true  one ;  for  I  can  never  forget  I 
belong  to  this  mighty  Nineteenth  Century.  But  for  my 
own  part,  on  a  careful  consideration  of  the  facts,  I 
should  make  a  triple  rather  than  a  twofold  classification. 
There  would  be  the  esprit  gaulois,  the  esprit  franfais,  not 
the  spirit  of  the  age  one  atom,  I  must  be  allowed  to  ob- 
serve, and  thirdly  a  certain  spirit  of  curling-irons  and 
kid  gloves  and  varnished  boots,  a  sort  of  bastard,  a  cross 
between  French  and  English,  equally  shocked  at  Tristram 
Shandy  and  the  Physiologie  du  Mariage  as  coarse  and 
immoral  productions.  This  is  our  spirit,  if  spirit  we 
have. 

The  two  first  types  have  a  real  and  positive  value; 
but  the  third  is  the  sole  and  only  one  nowadays  per- 
mitted or  current  as  legal  tender, — the  others  are  much 
too  outspoken.  Well!  I  will  hold  my  tongue,  and  mind 
my  own  business.  An  epoch  is  a  mighty  ugly  customer 
to  come  to  blows  with.  I  remember  Him  of  Galilee. 

The  genius  of  Rabelais  was  all  instinct  with  this  same 
esprit  gaulois — a  big,  bold,  virile  spirit,  breaking  out  in 
resounding  guffaws,  and  crude,  outspoken  verities, 
equally  unable  and  unwilling  to  soften  down  or  gloss 
over  anything,  innocent  of  every  species  of  periphrasis 
and  affectation.  It  is  genius  in  a  merry  mood  rising 
above  the  petty  conventionalities  of  speech, — often  re- 
minding us  of  Moliere  under  like  circumstances.  Let 
fools  be  shocked,  if  they  please ;  sensible  men  are  ashamed 
only  in  presence  of  positive  immorality  and  deliberate 

[xxii] 


Y«vifrMi?>w^^fra\iy4Yi^ir/s\^ 


HISTORICAL     NOTE 


i^ixm^^^^^^ 


vice.  The  esprit  gaulois  is  the  spirit  of  primitive  man 
going  straight  to  its  end,  regardless  of  fetter  or  law. 
The  esprit  franpais  is  equally  natural;  but  then  it  has 
acquired  a  certain  degree  of  civilisation.  It  has  less 
width  of  scope;  it  has  learned  the  little  concessions  men 
are  bound  to  make  one  another,  having  associated  longer 
with  them.  It  has  left  hodden  grey,  and  taken  to  the 
silken  doublet  and  cap  of  velvet,  and  rubs  elbows  with 
men  of  rank.  It  has  lost  nothing  of  its  good  sense  and 
good  temper;  but  it  feels  no  longer  bound  in  every  case 
to  blurt  its  thought  right  out;  already  it  leaves  some- 
thing to  be  guessed  at.  It  is  all  a  question  of  civilisation 
and  surroundings.  But  above  and  beyond  this,  it  must 
be  allowed  to  be  conditioned  by  the  essential  distinction 
between  genius  and  talent.  The  former  does  what  it  likes, 
'tis  lord  and  master;  the  latter  is,  by  its  very  nature,  a 
creature  of  compromise. 

Brantome  possesses  all  the  verve  and  brightness  of  a 
genuine  Frenchman.  All  the  conditions  of  life  are  highly 
favourable  for  him ;  he  is  rich  and  noble,  while  intelligence 
and  wit  are  stamped  on  his  very  face.  He  wins  his  first 
spurs  under  Fra^ois  de  Guise,  whose  protege  he  is ;  when 
he  has  had  enough  of  war,  he  comes  to  Court.  There  he 
receives  the  most  flattering  of  receptions,  every  Catholic 
Noble  extending  him  the  hand  of  good  fellowship.  His 
family  connections  are  such,  that  on  the  very  steps  of  the 
throne  is  a  voice  ready  to  call  him  cousin,  and  a  charm- 
ing woman's  lips  to  smile  on  him  with  favour.  'Tis  a 
good  start ;  henceforth  it  is  for  his  moral  and  intellectual 
qualities  to  achieve  the  career  so  auspiciously  begun. 

As  I  have  said  already,  Brantome  is  the  finished  type 
of  a  Frenchman  of  quality.  Well  taught  and  witty,  brave 

[xxiii] 


Y^i,Y<s\«fcw»\iy*ir^^ 


3\&&y£'&#^lS!!K>8W8£/l&!^^ 


and  enterprising,  capable  of  appreciating  honesty  and 
worth  whether  in  thought  or  deed,  instinctively  hating 
tyrants  and  tyrannical  violence,  and  avoiding  them  like 
the  plague,  blessing  the  happy  day  on  which  his  mother 
gave  him  birth,  light-hearted  and  sceptical,  he  unites  in 
himself  everything  that  makes  life  go  easy.  Be  sure  no 
over-bearing  passion  will  ever  disturb  the  serenity  of  his 
existence.  He  has  too  much  good  sense  to  let  his  happi- 
ness depend  on  the  chimerical  figments  of  the  imagination, 
and  too  much  real  courtesy  ever  to  reproach  a  woman 
with  her  frailties.  The  world  and  all  its  ways  seem  good 
to  him.  In  very  truth,  he  is  not  far  from  Pangloss's 
conclusion, — Pangloss,  the  perfect  type  of  what  a  man 
must  be  so  as  never  to  suffer, — "Well !  well !  all  is  for  the 
best  in  this  best  of  possible  worlds."  If  woman  deceive, 
she  offers  so  many  compensations  in  other  ways  that  'tis 
a  hundred  times  better  to  have  her  as  she  is  than  not  at 
all.  Men  are  sinners;  again  most  true,  as  an  abstract 
proposition,  but  if  only  we  know  how  to  regulate  our 
conduct  judiciously,  their  sinful  spite  will  never  touch 
us.  Easy  to  see  how,  with  this  bent  of  character  and 
these  convictions,  Brantome  was  certain  to  find  friendly 
faces  wherever  he  went.  The  favourable  impression  his 
person  and  position  had  produced,  his  good  sense  com- 
pleted. 

The  King  took  delight  in  the  society  of  this  finished 
gentleman  with  his  easy  and  agreeable  manners.  In  the 
midst  of  the  numberless  vexations  he  was  surrounded  by, 
one  of  his  greatest  distractions  was  the  gay,  lively  con- 
versation of  this  noble  lord,  from  whom  he  had  nothing 
to  fear  in  the  way  of  hostile  speech  or  angry  words.  The 
Due  d'Alen9on  was  another  intimate,  who  putting  aside 

[xxiv] 


ifrifflffiMftffiftffl^^ 

HISTORICAL    NOTE 


(BM<ffli8<]t»'m'tWa8<Jt^^ 


for  a  moment  his  schemes  of  ambition,  would  hear  and 
tell  tales  of  love  and  intrigue,  laughing  the  louder  in  pro- 
portion to  the  audacity  and  success  of  the  trick  played 
by  the  heroine.  And  so  it  was  with  all;  the  result  being 
that  Brantome  quickly  acquired  the  repute  of  being  the 
wittiest  man  in  France.  All  men  and  all  parties  were  on 
friendly  terms  with  him.  The  Huguenots  forgot  he  was 
a  Catholic,  and  made  an  ally  of  him.  Without  religious 
fanaticism  or  personal  ambition,  honoured  and  sought 
after  by  the  great,  yet  quite  unspoiled  and  always  simple- 
hearted  and  good-natured,  equally  free  from  prejudice 
and  pride,  he  conciliated  the  good  will  of  all.  Through- 
out the  whole  of  Brantome's  career,  we  never  hear  of  his 
making  a  single  enemy;  and  be  it  remembered  he  lived 
in  the  very  hottest  of  the  storm  and  stress,  political  and 
religious,  of  the  Sixteenth  Century.  Let  us  add  to  com- 
plete our  characterisation,  a  quite  incalculable  merit, — 
a  discretion  such  as  cannot  be  found  even  in  the  annals 
of  Chivalry,  a  period  indeed  when  lovers  were  only  too 
fond  of  making  a  show  of  their  ladies'  favours.  This  is 
the  one  and  only  point  where  Brantome  is  inconsistent 
with  the  true  French  type  of  character,  mostly  as  eager 
to  declare  the  fair  inamorata's  name  as  to  appreciate  the 
proofs  of  love  she  may  have  given. 

Francis  I.  is  but  just  dead,  we  must  remember.  His 
reign  has  been  called  the  Renaissance,  and  not  without 
good  reason.  Under  him  begins  that  light,  graceful  bear- 
ing, that  elegance  of  manner,  that  politeness  of  address, 
which  henceforth  will  make  continuous  advances  to 
greater  and  greater  refinement.  Rabelais  is  the  last  ex- 
pression of  that  old,  unsoftened  and  unmitigated  French 
speech,  from  which  at  a  later  date  Matthieu  Regnier  will 

[xxv] 


^ 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 


ocasionally  borrow  one  of  his  picturesque  phrases.  In 
the  same  reign  costume  first  becomes  dainty.  Men's 
minds  grow  finical  like  their  dress  ;  and  a  new  mode  of 
expression  was  imperatively  required  to  match  the  new 
elegance  of  living.  The  change  was  effected  almost  with- 
out effort;  'twas  a  mere  question  of  external  sensibility. 
The  body,  now  habituated  to  silk  and  velvet,  grows  more 
sensitive  and  delicate,  and  intellect  and  language  follow 
suit.  The  correspondence  was  inevitable.  So  much  for 
the  mental  revolution.  As  for  the  moral  side,  manners 
gained  in  frankness  no  doubt;  but  otherwise  things  were 
neither  better  nor  worse  than  before.  It  has  always 
seemed  to  us  a  strange  proceeding,  to  take  a  particular 
period  of  History,  as  writers  so  often  will,  and  declare,  — 
'At  this  epoch  morals  were  more  relaxed  than  ever  before 
or  since.' 

Now  under  Francis  L,  and  by  his  example,  manners 
acquired  a  happy  freedom,  an  unstudied  ease,  his  Cour- 
tiers were  sure  to  turn  to  good  advantage.  A  King  is 
always  king  of  the  fashion.  Judging  by  the  two  cele- 
brated lines  *  he  wrote  one  day  on  a  pane  in  one  of  the 
windows  at  the  Castle  of  Chambord,  Francis  I.,  a  Prince 
of  wit  and  a  true  Frenchman,  could  discover  no  better 
way  of  punishing  women  for  their  fickleness  and  frivolity 
than  that  of  copying  their  example.  Every  pretty 
woman  stirred  a  longing  to  possess  in  the  ample  and 
facile  heart  of  this  Royal  Don  Juan.  They  were  easy 
and  happy  loves,  —  without  remorse  and  without  bitter- 
ness, and  never  deformed  with  tears.  So  far  did  he  push 
his  rights  as  a  Sovereign,  that  there  is  said  to  have  been 
at  least  one  instance  of  rivalry  between  him  and  his  own 

[xxvi] 


sfflaffisfflnffl^^ 

HISTORICAL    NOTE  _  _ 


son.  He  died,  as  he  had  lived,  a  lover,  —  and  a  victim  to 
love. 

Under  Henri  II.,  Diane  de  Poitiers  is  the  most  prom- 
inent figure  on  the  stage  ;  following  the  gallant  leadership 
of  the  King's  mistress,  the  Court  continues  the  same  mode 
of  life  and  type  of  manners  which  distinguished  the  pre- 
ceding reign. 

Of  the  reign  of  Francis  II.,  we  need  only  speak  en 
passant.  During  the  short  while  he  and  Mary  Stuart 
were  exhausting  the  joys  of  a  brief  married  life,  there 
was  no  time  for  further  change. 

But  now  we  come  to  a  far  more  noteworthy  and  impor- 
tant period.  While  the  Queen  Mother  and  the  Guises  are 
silently  preparing  their  coup  d'etat;  while  the  Hugue- 
nots, light-hearted  and  unsuspecting,  are  dancing  and 
making  merry  in  the  halls  of  the  Louvre;  while  Catholics 
join  them  in  merry  feasts  at  the  taverns  then  in  vogue, 
and  ladies  allow  no  party  spirit  to  intrude  in  their  love 
affairs;  while  the  Pre-aux-Clercs  is  the  meeting-ground 
where  men  of  honour  settle  their  quarrels,  and  the  happy 
man,  the  man  who  receives  the  most  caressing  marks  of 
female  favour,  is  he  that  has  killed  most,  at  a  time  like 
this  the  wits  are  keen  and  the  spirit  as  reckless  as  the 
courage.  With  such  a  code  of  morals  it  was  a  difficult 
matter  for  any  serious  sentiment  to  survive.  Women  soon 
began  to  feel  the  same  scorn  of  life  that  men  professed. 
The  strongest  were  falling  day  by  day,  and  emotion  and 
sensibility  could  not  but  be  blunted.  Then  think  of  the 
crowd  of  eager  candidates  to  seize  the  vacant  reins  of 
Government,  and  the  steeple-chase  existence  of  those  days 
becomes  intelligible  and  even  excusable. 

In  all  this  movement  Brantome  was  necessarily  in- 
[xxvii] 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 


volved,  but  he  kept  invariably  in  the  back-ground,  in 
a  convenient  semi-obscurity.  But  we  must  by  no  means 
assume  that  this  prudence  on  the  Vicomte  de  Bourdeille's 
part  proceeded  from  any  lack  of  energy;  this  would  be 
doing  him  a  quite  undeserved  injustice.  He  had  given 
proofs  of  his  courage;  and  Abbe  as  he  was,  his  sword  on 
hip  spoke  as  proudly  as  the  most  doughty  ruffler's.  But 
a  man  of  peace,  he  avoided  provoking  quarrels;  he  was 
a  good  Catholic,  and  Religion  has  always  discountenanced 
the  shedding  of  blood. 

The  best  proof  of  the  position  he  was  able  to  win  at 
Court  is  this  Book  of  Fair  and  Gallant  Ladies  which  has 
come  down  to  us  as  its  result.  Amid  all  the  gay  and 
boisterous  fetes  of  the  time,  and  the  thousand  lights  of 
the  Louvre,  men  and  women  both  smiled  graciously  on 
our  Author.  His  perfect  discretion  was  perhaps  his  chief 
merit  in  the  eyes  of  all  these  love-sick  swains  and  garru- 
lous young  noodles.  The  instant  a  lover  received  an 
assignation  from  his  fair  one,  his  joy  ran  over  in  noisy 
fanfaronnades.  A  happy  man  is  brim  full  of  good-fellow- 
ship, and  eager  for  a  confidant.  Well !  if  at  that  moment 
the  gallant  Abbe  chanced  to  pass,  what  more  natural  than 
for  the  fortunate  gentleman  to  seize  and  buttonhole  him? 
Then  he  would  recount  his  incomparable  good  fortune, 
adding  a  hundred  piquant  details,  and  drunk  with  his 
own  babbling,  enumerate  one  after  the  other  the  most 
minute  particulars  of  his  intrigue,  ending  by  letting  out 
the  name  of  the  husband  at  whose  expense  he  had  been 
enjoying  himself.  Love  is  so  simple-minded  and  so 
charmingly  selfish!  Every  lover  seriously  thinks  each 
casual  acquaintance  must  of  course  sympathise  actively 
in  his  feelings.  A  bosom  friend  he  must  have ! — no  matter 

[xxviii] 


i/»Yitow^'r^irAw«NiiY^ 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 

JSMiMlMlMlMl&aMiaJSMB^^ 

who,  if  only  he  can  tell  him,  always  of  course  under 
formal  promise  of  concealment,  the  secret  he  should  have 
kept  locked  in  his  own  bosom.  Nor  should  we  look  over 
harshly  on  this  weakness;  too  much  happiness,  no  less 
than  too  much  unhappiness,  will  stifle  the  bosom  that 
cannot  throw  off  any  of  its  load  upon  another.  'Tis  the 
world-old  story  of  the  reeds  and  the  secret  that  must  be 
told.  Self -expansion  is  a  natural  craving;  without  it, 
men  grow  misanthropes  and  die  of  an  aneurism  of  the 
heart. 

This  brings  us  to  the  book  of  the  Dames  galantes. 
When  eventually  he  retired  to  his  estates,  Brantome  took 
up  the  pen  as  a  relief  to  his  ennui.  Among  all  the  works 
he  composed,  this  one  must  certainly  have  pleased  him 
best,  because  it  so  exactly  corresponds  with  his  own 
character  and  ways  of  thought.  But  to  write  these  lives 
of  Gallant  Ladies  was  an  enterprise  not  without  its 
dangers.  A  volume  of  anecdotes  of  the  sort  cannot  be 
written  without  there  being  considerable  risk  in  the  pro- 
cess of  falling  into  the  coarse  and  commonplace  vulgari- 
ties that  surround  such  a  subject.  Style,  wit,  philosophy, 
gaiety,  all  in  a  degree  seldom  met  with,  were  indispensable 
for  success;  yet  Brantome  has  succeeded.  This  book,  of 
the  Vies  des  Dames  galantes,  offers  a  close  analogy  with 
another  celebrated  study  in  the  same  genre,  viz.,  Balzac's 
Physiologic  du  mariage.  Both  works  deal  with  the  same 
subject,  the  ways  and  wiles  of  women,  married,  widow  and 
maid,  under  the  varying  conditions  of,  (1)  the  Sixteenth 
Century,  and  (2)  the  Present  Day.  But  the  mode  of 
treatment  is  different;  an  this  difference  made  Bran- 
tome's  task  a  harder  one  than  the  modern  Author's.  His 
short  stories  of  a  dozen  lines,  each  revealing  woman  in 

[xxix] 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 


one  of  those  secret  and  confidential  situations  only  open 
to  the  eye  of  husband  or  lover,  might  easily  be  displeas- 
ing, or  worse  still  tiresome.  Brantome  has  avoided  all 
these  shoals  and  shallows.  Each  little  tale  has  its  own 
interest,  always  fresh  and  bright. 

Moreover  a  lofty  morality  runs  through  the  narra- 
tives. At  first  sight  the  word  morality  may  seem  a  joke 
applied  to  such  matters ;  but  it  is  easy  to  disconcert  the 
scoffer  merely  by  asking  him  to  read  our  Author.  To 
support  my  contention,  there  is  no  need  to  quote  any 
particular  story  or  stories;  all  alike  have  their  charm, 
and  the  work  must  be  perused  in  its  entirety  to  appreciate 
the  truth  of  the  high  praise  I  give  it.  Every  reader, 
on  finally  closing  the  book,  cannot  but  feel  a  genuine 
enthusiasm.  The  delicate  wit  of  the  whole  recital  passes 
imagination.  On  every  page  we  meet  some  physical  trait 
or  some  moral  remark  that  rivets  the  attention.  The 
author  puts  his  hand  on  some  curiosity  or  perversity, 
and  instantly  stops  to  examine  it ;  while  at  the  same  time 
the  propriety  of  his  tone  allures  the  most  sedate  reader. 
The  discussion  of  each  point,  in  which  the  pros  and  cons 
are  always  balanced  one  against  the  other  in  the  wittiest 
and  most  thorough  manner,  is  interesting  to  the  highest 
degree.  In  one  word  the  book  is  a  code  and  compendium 
of  Love.  All  is  classified,  studied,  analysed;  each  argu- 
ment is  supported  by  an  appropriate  anecdote, — an  ex- 
ample,— a  Life. 

The  mere  arrangement  of  the  contents  displays  con- 
summate skill.  The  Author  has  divided  his  Vies  des  Dames 
galantes  into  seven  Discourses,  as  follows : 

In  the  First,  he  treats  "Of  ladies  which  do  make  love, 
and  their  husbands  cuckolds;" 

[xxx] 


Jj^tlfMtf^gftlfiWW^^ 

HISTORICAL    NOTE 

afeffljj^aggssaiMgs^^ 

In  the  Second,  he  expatiates  "On  the  question  which 
doth  give  the  more  content  in  love,  whether  touching, 
seeing  or  speaking;" 

In  the  Third,  he  speaks  "Concerning  the  Beauty  of  a 
fine  leg,  and  the  virtue  the  same  doth  possess;" 

In  the  Fourth,  he  discourses  "Concerning  old  dames 
as  fond  to  practise  love  as  ever  the  young  ones  be;" 

In  the  Fifth,  he  tells  "How  Fair  and  honourable  ladies 
do  love  brave  and  valiant  men,  and  brave  men  courageous 
women ;" 

In  the  Sixth,  he  teaches,  "How  we  should  never  speak 
ill  of  ladies, — and  of  the  consequences  of  so  doing;" 

In  the  Seventh,  he  asks,  "Concerning  married  women, 
widows  and  maids — which  of  these  be  better  than  the 
other  to  love." 

This  list  of  subjects,  displaying  as  it  does,  all  the 
leading  ideas  of  the  book,  leaves  me  little  to  add.  I 
have  no  call  to  go  into  a  detailed  appreciation  of  the 
Work  under  its  manifold  aspects  as  a  gallery  of  por- 
traits ;  my  task  was  merely  to  judge  of  its  general  physi- 
ognomy and  explain  its  raisin  d'etre;  and  this  I  have 
attempted  to  do. 

I  will  only  add  by  way  of  conclusion  a  few  words  to 
show  the  especial  esteem  we  should  feel  for  Brantome  on 
this  ground,  that  his  works  contain  nothing  to  corrupt 
good  morals.  Each  narrative  is  told  simply  and  straight- 
forwardly, for  what  it  is  worth.  The  author  neither 
embellishes  nor  exaggerates.  Moreover  the  species  of 
corollary  he  clinches  it  with  is  a  philosophical  and  physi- 
ological deduction  of  the  happiest  and  most  apposite 
kind  in  the  great  majority  of  instances, — some  witty  and 

[xxxi] 


HISTORICAL    NOTE 


ingenious  remark  that  never  offends  either  against  good 
sense  or  good  taste.  If  now  and  again  the  reader  is 
tempted  to  shy,  he  should  in  justice  put  this  down  to 
the  diction  of  the  time,  which  had  not  yet  adopted  that 
tone  of  arrogant  virtue  it  nowadays  affects.  Then  there 
was  a  large  number  of  words  in  former  days  which  con- 
noted nothing  worse  than  something  ridiculous  and  ab- 
surd. 

Then  as  to  beauty  of  language,  we  must  go  roundabout 
ways  to  reach  many  a  point  they  marched  straight  to 
in  old  days.  Brantome  at  any  rate  is  a  purist  of  style, — 
one  of  the  most  striking  and  most  correct  writers  I  have 
ever  read.  It  is  a  great  and  genuine  discovery  readers 
will  make,  if  they  do  not  know  him  already;  if  they  do, 
they  will  be  renewing  acquaintance  with  an  old  friend,  at 
once  witty  and  delightful.  In  either  case,  'tis  a  piece  of 
luck  not  to  be  despised. 

H.  VIGNEAU. 


[xxxii] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND 
GALLANT    LADIES 


FIRST  DISCOURSE 


Of 


\\jnicw  oo  mafce  JLovsc,  ana  tn 

0   (7-v    > 
cucfcoido. 


ett 


1. 


lEEING  'tis  the  ladies  have  laid  the  foundation 
of  all  cuckoldry,  and  how  'tis  they  which  do 
make  all  men  cuckolds,  I  have  thought  it  good 
to  include  this  First  Discourse  in  my  present 
Book  of  Fair  Ladies,  —  albeit  that  I  shall  have  occasion 
to  speak  therein  as  much  of  men  as  of  women.  I  know 
right  well  I  am  taking  up  a  great  work,  and  one  I  should 
never  get  done  withal,  if  that  I  did  insist  on  full  complete- 
ness of  the  same.  For  of  a  truth  not  all  the  paper  in  the 
Records  Office  of  Paris  would  hold  in  writing  the  half  of 
the  histories  of  folk  in  this  case,  whether  women  or  men. 
Yet  will  I  set  down  what  I  can;  and  when  I  can  no  more, 
I  will  e'en  give  my  pen  —  to  the  devil,  or  mayhap  to  some 
good  fellow-comrade,  which  shall  carry  on  the  tale. 

Furthermore  must  I  crave  indulgence  if  in  this  Dis- 
course I  keep  not  due  order  and  alignment,  for  indeed  so 
great  is  the  multitude  of  men  and  women  so  situate,  and 

[3] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


so  manifold  and  divers  their  condition,  that  I  know  not 
any  Commander  and  Master  of  War  so  skilled  as  that 
he  could  range  the  same  in  proper  rank  and  meet  array. 
Following  therefore  of  mine  own  fantasy,  will  I  speak 
of  them  in  such  fashion  as  pleaseth  me, — now  in  thig 
present  month  of  April,  the  which  bringeth  round  once 
more  the  very  season  and  open  time  of  cuckoos;  I  mean 
the  cuckoos  that  perch  on  trees,  for  of  the  other  sort  are 
to  be  found  and  seen  enough  and  to  spare  in  all  months 
and  seasons  of  the  year. 

Now  of  this  sort  of  cuckolds,  there  be  many  of  divers 
kinds,  but  of  all  sorts  the  worst  and  that  which  the  ladies 
fear  above  all  others,  doth  consist  of  those  wild,  fierce, 
tricky,  ill-conditioned,  malicious,  cruel  and  suspicious  hus- 
bands, who  strike,  torture  and  kill,  some  for  true  cause, 
others  for  no  true  reason  at  all,  so  mad  and  furious  doth 
the  very  least  suspicion  in  the  world  make  them.  With 
such  all  dealings  are  very  carefully  to  be  shunned,  both 
by  their  wives  and  by  the  lovers  of  the  same.  Natheless 
have  I  known  ladies  and  their  lovers  which  did  make  no 
account  of  them ;  for  they  were  just  as  ill-minded  as  the 
others,  and  the  ladies  were  bold  and  reckless,  to  such  a 
degree  that  if  their  cavaliers  chanced  to  fail  of  courage, 
themselves  would  supply  them  enough  and  to  spare  for 
both.  The  more  so  that  in  proportion  as  any  emprise 
is  dangerous  and  difficult,  ought  it  to  be  undertaken  in  a 
bold  and  high  spirit.  On  the  contrary  I  have  known 
other  ladies  of  the  sort  who  had  no  heart  at  all  or  ambi- 
tion to  adventure  high  endeavours ;  but  cared  for  naught 
but  their  low  pleasures,  even  as  the  proverb  hath  it :  base 
of  heart  as  an  harlot. 

Myself  knew  an  honourable  lady,  and  a  great  one,  who 

[4] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a  good  opportunity  offering  to  have  enjoyment  of  her 
lover,  when  this  latter  did  object  to  her  the  incommodity 
that  would  ensue  supposing  the  husband,  who  was  not 
far  off,  to  discover  it,  made  no  more  ado  but  left  him 
on  the  spot,  deeming  him  no  doughty  lover,  for  that  he 
said  nay  to  her  urgent  desire.  For  indeed  this  is  what 
an  amorous  dame,  whenas  the  ardour  and  frenzy  of  desire 
would  fain  be  satsified,  but  her  lover  will  not  or  cannot 
content  her  straightway,  by  reason  of  sundry  lets  and 
hindrances,  doth  hate  and  indignantly  abominate  above 
all  else. 

Needs  must  we  commend  this  lady  for  her  doughtiness, 
and  many  another  of  her  kidney,  who  fear  naught,  if  only 
they  may  content  their  passions,  albeit  therein  they  run 
more  risks  and  dangers  than  any  soldier  or  sailor  doth 
in  the  most  hazardous  perils  of  field  or  sea. 

A  Spanish  dame,  escorted  one  day  by  a  gallant  cavalier 
through  the  rooms  of  the  King's  Palace  and  happening  to 
pass  by  a  particular  dark  and  secret  recess,  the  gentle- 
man, piquing  himself  on  his  respect  for  women  and  his 
Spanish  discretion,  saith  to  her :  Senora,  buen  lugar,  si  no 
fuera  vuessa  merced  (A  good  place,  my  lady,  if  it  were 
another  than  your  ladyship).  To  this  the  lady  merely 
answered  the  very  same  words  back  again,  Si,  buen  lugar, 
si  no  fuera  vuessa  merced  (Yes,  Sir,  a  good  place,  if  it 
were  another  than  your  lordship).  Thus  did  she  imply 
his  cowardliness,  and  rebuke  the  same,  for  that  he  had 
not  taken  of  her  in  so  good  a  place  what  she  did  wish 
and  desire  to  lose,  as  another  and  a  bolder  man  would 
have  done  in  like  case.  For  the  which  cause  she  did 
thereupon  altogether  pretermit  her  former  love  for  him, 
and  left  him  incontinently. 

[5] 


Braiggigss?7^ig^igsfl??saff^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


!^t^!^i^i^^t^^ 


I  have  heard  tell  of  a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady, 
who  did  make  assignation  with  her  lover,  only  on  condition 
he  should  not  touch  her  (nor  come  to  extremities  at  all). 
This  the  other  accomplished,  tarrying  all  night  long  in 
great  ecstasy,  temptation  and  continence;  and  thereat 
was  the  lady  so  grateful  that  some  while  after  she  did  give 
him  full  gratification,  alleging  for  reason  that  she  had 
been  fain  to  prove  his  love  in  accomplishing  the  task  she 
had  laid  upon  him.  Wherefore  she  did  love  him  much 
thereafter,  and  afforded  him  opportunity  to  do  quite  other 
feats  than  this  one, — verily  one  of  the  hardest  sort  to 
succeed  in. 

Some  there  be  will  commend  his  discretion, — or  timid- 
ity, if  you  had  rather  call  it  so, — others  not.  For  myself 
I  refer  the  question  to  such  as  may  debate  the  point  on 
this  side  or  on  that  according  to  their  several  humours 
and  predispositions. 

I  knew  once  a  lady,  and  one  of  no  low  degree,  who 
having  made  an  assignation  with  her  lover  to  come  and 
stay  with  her  one  night,  he  hied  him  thither  all  ready,  in 
shirt  only,  to  do  his  duty.  But,  seeing  it  was  in  winter- 
tide,  he  was  so  sorely  a-cold  on  the  way,  that  he  could 
accomplish  naught,  and  thought  of  no  other  thing  but 
to  get  heat  again.  Whereat  the  lady  did  loathe  the 
caitiff,  and  would  have  no  more  of  him. 

Another  lady,  discoursing  of  love  with  a  gentleman, 
he  said  to  her  among  other  matters  that  if  he  were  with 
her,  he  would  undertake  to  do  his  devoir  six  times  in  one 
night,  so  greatly  would  her  beauty  edge  him  on.  "You 
boast  most  high  prowess,"  said  she ;  "I  make  you  assigna- 
tion therefore"  for  such  and  such  a  night.  Nor  did  she 
fail  to  keep  tryst  at  the  time  agreed;  but  lo!  to  his  un- 

[6] 


Hrfflg^BffllfffttgWmff 


rfcw<Mf/wr/»i^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


doing,  he  was  assailed  by  so  sad  a  convulsion,  that  he 
could  by  no  means  accomplish  his  devoir  so  much  as  once 
even.  Whereupon  the  fair  lady  said  to  him,  "What !  are 
you  good  for  naught  at  all?  Well,  then!  begone  out  of 
my  bed.  I  did  never  lend  it  you,  like  a  bed  at  an  inn,  to 
take  your  ease  forsooth  therein  and  rest  yourself.  There- 
fore, I  say,  begone!"  Thus  did  she  drive  him  forth,  and 
thereafter  did  make  great  mock  of  him,  hating  the  recre- 
ant worse  than  the  plague. 

This  last  gentleman  would  have  been  happy  enough,  if 
only  he  had  been  of  the  complexion  of  the  great  Baraud, 
Protonotary  and  Almoner  to  King  Francis,  for  whenas 
he  lay  with  the  Court-ladies,  he  would  even  reach  the 
round  dozen  at  the  least,  and  yet  next  morning  he  would 
say  right  humbly,  "I  pray  you,  Madam,  make  excuse 
that  I  have  not  done  better,  but  I  took  physic  yester- 
day." I  have  myself  known  him  of  later  years,  when  he 
was  called  Captain  Baraud,  a  Gascon,  and  had  quitted 
the  lawyer's  robe.  He  has  recounted  to  me,  at  my  ask- 
ing, his  amours,  and  that  name  by  name. 

As  he  waxed  older,  this  masculine  vigour  and  power 
somewhat  failed  him.  Moreover  he  was  now  poor,  albeit 
he  had  had  good  pickings,  the  which  his  prowess  had 
gotten  him;  yet  had  he  squandered  it  all,  and  was  now 
set  to  compounding  and  distilling  essences.  "But  verily," 
he  would  say,  "if  only  I  could  now,  so  well  as  once  I  could 
in  my  younger  days,  I  should  be  in  better  case,  and  should 
guide  my  gear  better  than  I  have  done." 

During  the  famous  War  of  the  League,  an  honourable 
gentleman,  and  a  right  brave  and  valiant  soldier,  having 
left  the  place  whereof  he  was  Governor  to  go  to  the  wars, 
could  not  on  his  return  arrive  in  garrison  before  night- 

[7] 


By^gTajraiff^fffftlfPSfflfSit^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ftli^Wtttyil^ai^^^ 

fall,  and  so  betook  himself  to  the  house  of  a  fair  and 
very  honourable  and  noble  widow,  who  straight  invited 
him  to  stay  the  night  within  doors.  This  he  gladly  con- 
sented to  do,  for  he  was  exceeding  weary.  After  mak- 
ing him  good  cheer  at  supper,  she  gives  him  her  own 
chamber  and  bed,  seeing  that  all  the  other  bed-chambers 
were  dismantled  by  reason  of  the  War,  and  their  furni- 
ture,— and  she  had  good  and  fair  plenishing, — under  lock 
and  key.  Herself  meanwhile  withdraws  to  her  closet, 
where  she  had  a  day-bed  in  use. 

The  gentleman,  after  several  times  refusing  this  bed 
and  bed-chamber,  was  constrained  by  the  good  lady's 
prayers  to  take  it.  Then  so  soon  as  he  was  laid  down 
therein  and  asleep  most  soundly,  lo!  the  lady  slips  in 
softly  and  lays  herself  down  beside  him  in  the  bed  with- 
out his  being  ware  of  aught  all  the  night  long,  so  aweary 
was  he  and  heavily  asleep.  There  lay  he  till  broad  day- 
light, when  the  lady,  drawing  away  from  him,  as  the 
sleeper  began  to  awake,  said,  "You  have  not  slept  without 
company;  for  I  would  not  yield  you  up  the  whole  of  my 
bed,  so  have  I  enjoyed  the  one  half  thereof  as  well  as 
ever  you  have  the  other.  You  have  lost  a  chance  you  will 
never  have  again." 

The  gentleman,  cursing  and  railing  for  spite  of  his 
wasted  opportunity  ('twere  enough  to  make  a  man  hang 
himself),  was  fain  to  stay  her  and  beg  her  over.  But  no 
such  thing!  On  the  contrary,  she  was  sorely  displeased 
at  him  for  not  having  contented  her  as  she  would  have 
had  him  do,  for  of  a  truth  she  had  not  come  thither  for 
only  one  poor  embrace, — as  the  saying  hath  it,  one  em- 
brace is  only  the  salad  of  a  feast.  She  loved  the  plural 

[8] 


g^tyffl?fffl?rffl?TOIf?^lrAtlf?^lg^lrAtBrai^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


im^t^t^i^^^^t^iaakmmv»4^^^t^ 


number  better  than  the  singular,  as  do  many  worthy 
dames. 

Herein  they  differ  from  a  certain  very  fair  and  honour- 
able lady  I  once  knew,  who  on  one  occasion  having  made 
assignation  with  her  lover  to  come  and  stay  with  her,  in 
a  twinkling  he  did  accomplish  three  good  embraces  with 
her.  But  thereafter,  he  wishing  to  do  a  fourth  and  make  his 
number  yet  complete,  she  did  urge  him  with  prayers  and 
commands  to  get  up  and  retire.  He,  as  fresh  as  at  first, 
would  fain  renew  the  combat,  and  doth  promise  he  would 
fight  furiously  all  that  night  long  till  dawn  of  day,  de- 
claring that  for  so  little  as  had  gone  by,  his  vigour  was 
in  no  wise  diminished.  But  she  did  reply:  "Be  satisfied 
I  have  recognized  your  doughtiness  and  good  dispositions. 
They  are  right  fair  and  good,  and  at  a  better  time  and 
place  I  shall  know  very  well  how  to  take  better  advantage 
of  them  than  at  this  present.  For  naught  but  some  small 
illhap  is  lacking  for  you  and  me  to  be  discovered.  Fare- 
well then  till  a  better  and  more  secure  occasion,  and  then 
right  freely  will  I  put  you  to  the  great  battle,  and  not  to 
such  a  trifling  encounter  as  this." 

Many  dames  there  be  would  not  have  shown  this  much 
prudency,  but  intoxicate  with  pleasure,  seeing  they  had 
the  enemy  already  on  the  field,  would  have  had  him  fight 
till  dawn  of  day. 

The  same  honourable  lady  which  I  spake  of  before 
these  last,  was  of  such  a  gallant  humour  that  when  the 
caprice  was  on  her,  she  had  never  a  thought  or  fear  of 
her  husband,  albeit  he  was  a  ready  swordsman  and  quick 
at  offence.  Natheless  hath  she  alway  been  so  fortunate 
as  that  neither  she  nor  her  lovers  have  ever  run  serious 
risks  of  their  lives  or  come  near  being  surprised,  by  dint 

[9] 


B^fltf^ysffl^WR^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

glMlMK^lMiMlMlMlMli^ife^^ 

of  careful  posting  of  guards  and  good  and  watchful 
sentinels. 

Still  it  behoves  not  ladies  to  trust  too  much  to  this, 
for  one  unlucky  moment  is  all  that  is  needed  to  ruin  all, 
— as  happened  some  while  since  to  a  certain  brave  and 
valiant  gentleman  2  who  was  massacred  on  his  way  to  see 
his  mistress  by  the  treachery  and  contrivance  of  the  lady 
herself,  the  which  her  husband  made  her  devise  against 
him.  Alas !  if  he  had  not  entertained  so  high  a  presump- 
tion of  his  own  worth  and  valour  as  he  rightly  did,  he 
would  have  kept  better  guard,  and  would  never  have 
fallen, — more's  the  pity!  A  capital  example,  verily,  not 
to  trust  over  much  to  amorous  dames,  who  to  escape  the 
cruel  hand  of  their  husbands,  do  play  such  a  game  as 
these  order  them,  as  did  the  lady  in  this  case,  who  saved 
her  own  life, — at  the  sacrifice  of  her  lover's. 

Other  husbands  there  be  who  kill  the  lady  and  the 
lover  both  together  as  I  have  heard  it  told  of  a  very 
great  lady  whose  husband  was  jealous  of  her,  not  for 
any  offence  he  had  certain  knowledge  of,  but  out  of  mere 
suspiciousness  and  mistaken  zeal  of  love.  He  did  his  wife 
to  death  with  poison  and  wasting  sickness, — a  grievous 
thing  and  an  exceeding  sad,  after  having  first  slain  the 
lover,  a  good  and  honourable  man,  declaring  that  the 
sacrifice  was  fairer  and  more  agreeable  to  kill  the  bull 
first,  and  the  cow  afterwards. 

This  same  Prince  was  more  cruel  to  his  wife  than  he 
was  later  to  one  of  his  daughters,  the  which  he  had  mar- 
ried to  a  great  Prince,  though  not  so  great  an  one  as 
himself  was,  he  being  indeed  a  monarch  in  all  but  name. 

It  fell  out  to  this  fickle  dame  to  be  gotten  with  child  by 
another  than  her  husband,  who  was  at  the  time  busied 

[10] 


•MMfrsMfofflrtfl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


aBsaaaBigas^agi^BSiK^^ 


afar  in  some  War.  Presently,  having  been  brought  to  bed 
of  a  fine  child,  she  wist  not  to  what  Saint  to  make  appeal, 
if  not  to  her  father;  so  to  him  she  did  reveal  all  by  the 
mouth  of  a  gentleman  she  had  trust  in,  whom  she  sent  to 
him.  No  sooner  had  he  hearkened  to  his  confidence  than 
he  did  send  and  charge  her  husband  that,  for  his  life,  he 
should  beware  to  make  no  essay  against  that  of  his  daugh- 
ter, else  would  he  do  the  same  against  his,  and  make  him 
the  poorest  Prince  in  Christendom,  the  which  he  was  well 
able  to  accomplish.  Moreover  he  did  despatch  for  his 
daughter  a  galley  with  a  meet  escort  to  fetch  to  him  the 
child  and  its  nurse,  and  providing  a  good  house  and  liveli- 
hood, had  the  boy  nourished  and  brought  up  right  well. 
But  when  after  some  space  of  time  the  father  came  to  die, 
thereupon  the  husband  put  her  to  death  and  so  did  punish 
her  for  her  faithlessness  at  last. 

I  have  heard  tell  of  another  husband  who  did  to  death 
the  lover  before  the  eyes  of  his  wife,  causing  him  to  lan- 
guish in  long  pain,  to  the  end  she  might  die  in  a  martyr's 
agony  to  see  the  lingering  death  of  him  she  had  so  loved 
and  had  held  within  her  arms. 

Yet  another  great  nobleman  did  kill  his  wife  openly 
before  the  whole  Court.3  For  the  space  of  fifteen  years 
he  had  granted  the  same  all  liberty,  .and  had  been  for  long 
while  well  aware  of  her  ill  ways,  having  many  a  time  and 
oft  remonstrated  thereat  and  admonished  her.  However 
at  the  last  a  sudden  caprice  took  him  ('tis  said  at  the 
instance  of  a  great  Prince,  his  master),  and  on  a  certain 
morning  he  did  visit  her  as  she  still  lay  abed,  but  on  the 
point  of  rising.  Then,  after  lying  with  her,  and  after 
sporting  and  making  much  mirth  together,  he  did  give 
her  four  or  five  dagger  thrusts.  This  done,  he  bade  a 

[11] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


servant  finish  her,  and  after  had  her  laid  on  a  litter,  and 
carried  openly  before  all  the  Court  to  his  own  house,  to 
be  there  buried.  He  would  fain  have  done  the  like  to  her 
paramours ;  but  so  would  he  have  had  overmuch  on  his 
hands,  for  that  she  had  had  so  many  they  might  have 
made  a  small  army. 

I  have  heard  speak  likewise  of  a  certain  brave  and 
valiant  Captain,*  who  conceiving  some  suspicion  of  his 
wife,  went  straight  to  her  without  more  ado  and  strangled 
her  himself  with  his  own  hands,  in  her  white  girdle. 
Thereafter  he  had  her  buried  with  all  due  honour,  and 
himself  was  present  at  her  obsequies  in  mourning  weeds 
and  of  a  very  sad  countenance,  the  which  mourning  he 
did  continue  for  many  a  long  day, — verily  a  noble  sat- 
isfaction to  the  poor  lady,  as  if  a  fine  funeral  could  bring 
her  to  life  again !  Moreover  he  did  the  same  by  a  damosel 
which  had  been  in  waiting  on  his  wife  and  had  aided  and 
abetted  her  in  her  naughtiness.  Nor  yet  did  he  die  with- 
out issue  by  this  same  wife,  for  he  had  of  her  a  gallant 
son,  one  of  the  bravest  and  foremost  soldiers  of  his  coun- 
try, who  by  virtue  of  his  worth  and  emprise  did  reach 
great  honour  as  having  served  his  Kings  and  masters  right 
well. 

I  have  heard  likewise  of  a  nobleman  in  Italy  which  also 
slew  his  wife,  not  being  able  to  catch  her  gallant  who  had 
escaped  into  France.  But  it  is  said  he  slew  her,  not  so 
much  because  of  her  sin, — for  that  he  had  been  ware  of 
for  a  long  time,  how  she  indulged  in  loose  love  and  took 
no  heed  for  aught  else, — as  in  order  to  wed  another  lady 
of  whom  he  was  enamoured. 

Now  this  is  why  it  is  very  perilous  to  assail  and  attack 
an  armed  and  defended  spot, — not  but  that  there  be  as 

[12] 


g5BS5Bssiiaaffwwffl?raiis^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

^•i^iMia^aMiMiMiMiM^ 

many  of  this  sort  assailed  and  right  well  assailed  as  of 
unarmed  and  undefended  ones,  yea !  and  assailed  victori- 
ously to  boot.  For  an  example  whereof,  I  know  of  one 
that  was  as  well  armed  and  championed  as  any  in  all  the 
world.  Yet,  was  there  a  certain  gentleman,  in  sooth  a 
most  brave  and  valiant  soldier,  who  was  fain  to  hanker 
after  the  same;  nay!  he  was  not  content  with  this,  but 
must  needs  pride  himself  thereon  and  bruit  his  success 
abroad.  But  it  was  scarce  any  time  at  all  before  he  was 
incontinently  killed  by  men  appointed  to  that  end,  with- 
out otherwise  causing  scandal,  and  without  the  lady's 
suffering  aught  therefrom.  Yet  was  she  for  long  while 
in  sore  fear  and  anguish  of  spirit,  seeing  that  she  was  then 
with  child  and  firmly  believing  that  after  her  bringing  to 
bed,  the  which  she  would  full  fain  have  seen  put  off  for 
an  hundred  years,  she  would  meet  the  like  fate.  But  the 
husband  showed  himself  a  good  and  merciful  man, — 
though  of  a  truth  he  was  one  of  the  keenest  swordsmen 
in  all  the  world, — and  freely  pardoned  her;  and  nothing 
else  came  of  it,  albeit  divers  of  them  that  had  been  her 
servants  were  in  no  small  affright.  However  the  one 
victim  paid  for  all.  And  so  the  lady,  recognizing  the 
goodness  and  graciousness  of  such  an  husband,  gave  but 
very  little  cause  for  suspicion  thereafter,  for  that  she 
joined  herself  to  the  ranks  of  the  more  wise  and  virtuous 
dames  of  that  day. 

It  fell  out  very  different  not  many  years  since  in  the 
Kingdom  of  Naples  to  Donna  Maria  d'Avalos,  one  of  the 
fair  Princesses  of  that  land  and  married  to  the  Prince 
of  Venusia,  who  was  enamoured  of  the  Count  d'Andriane, 
likewise  one  of  the  noble  Princes  of  the  country.  So 
being  both  of  them  come  together  to  enjoy  their  passion, 

[13] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

is^iayiiR^aiMiMi^wfflV^^ 

and  the  husband  having  discovered  it,  —  by  means  whereof 
I  could  render  an  account,  but  the  tale  would  be  over 
long,  —  having  insooth  surprised  them  there  together,  had 
the  twain  of  them  slain  by  men  appointed  thereto.  In 
such  wise  that  next  morning  the  fair  and  noble  pair,  un- 
happy beings,  were  seen  lying  stretched  out  and  exposed 
to  public  view  on  the  pavement  in  front  of  the  house  door, 
all  dead  and  cold,  in  sight  of  all  passers-by,  who  could 
not  but  weep  and  lament  over  their  piteous  lot. 

Now  there  were  kinsfolk  of  the  said  lady,  thus  done  to 
death,  who  were  exceeding  grieved  and  greatly  angered 
thereat,  so  that  they  were  right  eager  to  avenge  the  same 
by  death  and  murder,  as  the  law  of  that  country  doth 
allow.  But  for  as  much  as  she  had  been  slain  by  base- 
born  varlets  and  slaves  who  deserved  not  to  have  their 
hands  stained  with  so  good  and  noble  blood,  they  were  for 
making  this  point  alone  the  ground  of  their  resentment 
and  for  this  seeking  satisfaction  from  the  husband, 
whether  by  way  of  justice  or  otherwise,  —  but  not  so,  if 
he  had  struck  the  blow  with  his  own  hand.  For  that 
had  been  a  different  case,  not  so  imperatively  calling  for 
satisfaction. 

Truly  an  odd  idea  and  a  most  foolish  quibble  have  we 
here!  Whereon  I  make  appeal  to  our  great  orators  and 
wise  lawyers,  that  they  tell  me  this  :  which  act  is  the  more 
monstrous,  for  a  man  to  kill  his  wife  with  his  own  hand, 
the  which  hath  so  oftentimes  loved  and  caressed  her,  or 
by  that  of  a  base-born  slave?  In  truth  there  are  many 
good  arguments  to  be  alleged  on  the  point;  but  I  will 
refrain  me  from  adducing  of  them,  for  fear  they  prove 
over  weak  and  silly  in  comparison  of  those  of  such  great 
folk. 

[14] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gJMIMlMIMIfefllftmfllML*.^^ 

I  have  heard  tell  that  the  Viceroy,  hearing  of  the  plot 
that  was  toward,  did  warn  the  lover  thereof,  and  the  lady 
to  boot.  But  their  destiny  would  have  it  so  ;  this  was 
to  be  the  issue,  and  no  other,  of  their  so  delightsome  loves. 

This  lady  was  daughter  of  Don  Carlo  d'Avalos,  second 
brother  of  the  Marquis  di  Pesca'ira,  to  whom  if  any  had 
played  a  like  trick  in  any  of  his  love  matters  wherewith 
I  am  acquaint,  be  sure  he  would  have  been  dead  this  many 
a  long  day. 

I  once  knew  an  husband,  which  coming  home  from 
abroad  and  having  gone  long  without  sleeping  with  his 
wife,  did  arrive  with  mind  made  up  and  glad  heart  to  do 
so  with  her  presently,  and  having  good  pleasure  thereof. 
But  arriving  by  night,  he  did  hear  by  his  little  spy,  how 
that  she  was  accompanied  by  her  lover  in  the  bed.  There- 
upon did  he  straight  lay  hand  on  sword,  and  knocked  at 
the  door;  the  which  being  opened,  he  entered  in  resolved 
to  kill  her.  After  first  of  all  hunting  for  the  gallant, 
who  had  escaped  by  the  window,  he  came  near  to  his  wife 
to  kill  her;  but  it  so  happened  she  was  on  this  occasion 
so  becomingly  tricked  out,  so  featly  dressed  in  her  night 
attire  and  her  fair  white  shift,  and  so  gaily  decked  (bear 
in  mind  she  had  taken  all  this  pretty  pains  with  herself 
the  better  to  please  her  lover),  that  he  had  never  found 
her  so  much  to  his  taste.  Then  she,  falling  at  his  knees, 
in  her  shift  as  she  was,  and  grovelling  on  the  ground, 
did  ask  his  forgiveness  with  such  fair  and  gentle  words, 
the  which  insooth  she  knew  right  well  how  to  set  forth, 
that  raising  her  up  and  seeing  her  so  fair  and  of  so  gra- 
cious mien,  he  felt  his  heart  stir  within  him,  and  dropping 
his  sword,  —  for  that  he  had  had  no  enjoyment  for  many 
a  day  and  was  anhungered  therefor,  which  likely  enough 

[15] 


WWfflggl^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


did  stir  the  lady  too  at  nature's  prompting,  —  he  forgave 
her  and  took  and  kissed  her,  and  put  her  back  to  bed 
again,  and  in  a  twinkling  lay  down  with  her,  after 
shutting  to  the  door  again.  And  the  fair  lady  did  content 
him  so  well  by  her  gentle  ways  and  pretty  cajoleries,  — 
be  sure  she  forgat  not  any  one  of  them  all,  —  that  even- 
tually the  next  morning  they  were  found  better  friends 
than  ever,  and  never  was  so  much  loving  and  caressing 
between  them  before.  As  was  the  case  likewise  with  King 
Menelaus,  that  poor  cuckold,  the  which  did  ever  by  the 
space  of  ten  or  twelve  years  threaten  his  wife  Helen  that 
he  would  kill  her,  if  ever  he  could  put  hands  upon  her, 
and  even  did  tell  her  so,  calling  from  the  foot  of  Troy's 
wall  to  her  on  the  top  thereof.  Yet,  Troy  well  taken, 
and  she  fallen  into  his  power,  so  ravished  was  he  with 
her  beauty  that  he  forgave  her  all,  and  did  love  and 
fondle  her  in  better  sort  than  ever. 

So  much  then  for  these  savage  husbands  that  from  lions 
turn  into  butterflies.  But  no  easy  thing  is  it  for  any  to 
get  deliverance  like  her  whose  case  we  now  tell. 

A  lady,  young,  fair  and  noble,  in  the  reign  of  King 
Francis  I.,  married  to  a  great  Lord  of  France,  of  as 
noble  a  house  as  is  any  to  be  found,  did  escape  otherwise, 
and  in  more  pious  fashion,  than  the  last  named.  For, 
whether  it  were  she  had  given  some  cause  for  suspicion 
to  her  husband,  or  that  he  was  overtaken  by  a  fit  of  dis- 
trust or  sudden  anger,  he  came  at  her  sword  in  hand  for 
to  kill  her.  But  she  bethought  herself  instantly  to  make 
a  vow  to  the  glorious  Virgin  Mary,  and  to  promise  she 
would  to  pay  her  said  vow,  if  only  she  would  save  her  life, 
at  her  chapel  of  Loretto  at  St.  Jean  des  Mauverets,  in 
the  country  of  Anjou.  And  so  soon  as  ever  she  had  made 

[16] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

I&g^^ 


this  vow  in  her  own  mind,  lo!  the  said  Lord  did  fall  to 
the  ground,  and  his  sword  slipped  from  out  his  hand. 
Then  presently,  rising  up  again  as  if  awaking  from  a 
dream,  he  did  ask  his  wife  to  what  Saint  she  had  recom- 
mended herself  to  escape  out  of  this  peril.  She  told  him 
it  was  to  the  Blessed  Virgin,  in  her  afore-named  Chapel, 
and  how  she  had  promised  to  visit  the  holy  place. 
Whereupon  he  said  to  her:  "Go  thither  then,  and  fulfil 
your  vow,"  —  the  which  she  did,  and  hung  up  there  a 
picture  recording  the  story,  together  with  sundry  large 
and  fair  votive  offerings  of  wax,  such  as  of  yore  were 
customary  for  this  purpose,  the  which  were  there  to  be 
seen  for  long  time  after.  Verily  a  fortunate  vow,  and 
a  right  happy  and  unexpected  escape,  —  as  is  further  set 
forth  in  the  Chronicles  of  Anjou.s 

2. 

HAVE  heard  say  how  King  Francis1  once  was 
fain  to  go  to  bed  with  a  lady  of  his  Court 
whom  he  loved.  He  found  her  husband  sword 
in  fist  ready  to  kill  him  ;  but  the  King  straight- 
way did  put  his  own  to  his  throat,  and  did  charge  him, 
on  his  life,  to  do  him  no  hurt,  but  an  if  he  should  do  him 
the  least  ill  in  the  world,  how  that  he  would  kill  him  on 
the  spot,  or  else  have  his  head  cut  off.  So  for  that  night 
did  he  send  him  forth  the  house,  and  took  his  place.  The 
said  lady  was  very  fortunate  to  have  found  so  good  a 
champion  and  protector  of  her  person,  for  never  after 
durst  the  husband  to  say  one  word  of  complaint,  and 
so  left  her  to  do  as  she  well  pleased. 

I  have  heard  tell  how  that  not  this  lady  alone,  but 

[17] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


many  another  beside,  did  win  suchlike  safeguard  and  pro- 
tection from  the  King.  As  many  folk  do  in  War-time 
to  save  their  lands,  putting  of  the  King's  cognizance  over 
their  doors,  even  so  do  these  ladies  put  the  countersign 
of  their  monarchs  inside  and  out  their  bodies;  whereby 
their  husbands  dare  not  afterward  say  one  word  of  re- 
proach, who  but  for  this  would  have  given  them  inconti- 
nently to  the  edge  of  the  sword. 

I  have  known  yet  other  ladies,  favoured  in  this  wise  by 
kings  and  great  princes,  who  did  so  carry  their  passports 
everywhere.  Natheless  were  there  some  of  them,  whose 
husbands,  albeit  not  daring  to  use  cold  steel  to  them,  did 
yet  have  resort  to  divers  poisons  and  secret  ways  of 
death,  making  pretence  these  were  catarrhs,  or  apoplexy 
and  sudden  death.  Verily  such  husbands  are  odious, — 
so  to  see  their  fair  wives  lying  by  their  side,  sickening 
and  dying  a  slow  death  day  after  day,  and  do  deserve 
death  far  worse  than  their  dames.  Others  again  do  them 
to  death  between  four  walls,  in  perpetual  emprisonment. 
Of  such  we  have  instances  in  sundry  ancient  Chronicles 
of  France;  and  myself  have  known  a  great  nobleman  of 
France,  the  which  did  thus  slay  his  wife,  who  was  a  very 
fair  and  honourable  lady, — and  this  by  judgement  of  the 
Courts,  taking  an  infatuate  delight  in  having  by  this 
means  his  cuckoldry  publicly  declared. 

Among  husbands  of  this  mad  and  savage  temper  under 
cuckoldry,  old  men  hold  the  first  place,  who  distrusting 
their  own  vigour  and  heat  of  body,  and  bent  on  making 
sure  of  their  wives'  virtue,  even  when  they  have  been  so 
foolish  as  to  marry  young  and  beautiful  ones,  so  jealous 
and  suspicious  are  they  of  the  same  (as  well  by  reason 
of  their  natural  disposition  as  of  their  former  doings 

[18] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ffljyil&i^ilMffiaglMl^^ 

in  this  sort,  the  which  they  have  either  done  themselves 
of  yore  or  seen  done  by  others),  that  they  lead  the  un- 
happy creatures  so  miserable  a  life  that  scarce  could 
Purgatory  itself  be  in  any  wise  more  cruel. 

The  Spanish  proverb  saith  :  El  diablo  sabe  mucho,  porque 
es  vie  jo,  "The  devil  knoweth  much,  because  he  is  old"; 
and  in  like  sort  these  old  men,  by  reason  of  their  age  and 
erstwhile  habitudes,  know  full  many  things.  Thus  are 
they  greatly  to  be  blamed  on  this  point,  for  seeing  they 
cannot  satisfy  their  wives,  why  do  they  go  about  to  marry 
them  at  all?  Likewise  are  the  women,  being  so  fair  and 
young,  very  wrong  to  marry  old  men  under  temptation 
of  wealth,  thinking  they  will  enjoy  the  same  after  their 
death,  the  which  they  do  await  from  hour  to  hour.  And 
meanwhile  do  they  make  good  cheer  with  young  gallants 
whom  they  make  friends  of,  for  the  which  some  of  them 
do  suffer  sorely. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  one  who,  being  surprised  in  the 
act,  her  husband,  an  old  man,  did  give  her  a  certain 
poison  whereby  she  lay  sick  for  more  than  a  year,  and 
grew  dry  as  a  stick.  And  the  husband  would  go  oft  to 
see  her,  and  took  delight  in  that  her  sickness,  and  made 
mirth  thereat,  declaring  she  had  gotten  her  deserts. 

Yet  another  her  husband  shut  her  up  in  a  room,  and 
put  her  on  bread  and  water,  and  very  oft  would  he  make 
her  strip  stark  naked  and  whip  her  his  fill,  taking  no  pity 
on  that  fair  naked  flesh,  and  feeling  no  compunction 
thereat.  And  truly  this  is  the  worst  of  them,  for  seeing 
they  be  void  of  natural  heat,  and  as  little  subject  to 
temptation  as  a  marble  statue,  no  beauty  doth  stir  their 
compassion,  but  they  satiate  their  rage  with  cruel  mar- 
tyrdoms ;  whereas  if  that  they  were  younger,  they  would 

[19] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


take  their  satisfaction  on  their  victim's  fair  naked  body, 
and  so  forget  and  forgive,  as  I  have  told  of  in  a  previous 
place. 

This  is  why  it  is  ill  to  marry  suchlike  ill-conditioned 
old  men;  for  of  a  truth,  albeit  their  sight  is  failing  and 
coming  to  naught  from  old  age,  yet  have  they  always 
enough  to  spy  out  and  see  the  tricks  their  young  wives  may 
play  them. 

Even  so  have  I  heard  speak  of  a  great  lady  who  was 
used  to  say  that  never  a  Saturday  was  without  sun,  never 
a  beautiful  woman  without  amours,  and  never  an  old  man 
without  his  being  jealous;  and  indeed  everything  goeth 
for  the  enfeeblement  of  his  vigour. 

This  is  why  a  great  Prince  whom  I  know  was  wont  to 
say:  that  he  would  fain  be  like  the  lion,  the  which,  grow 
he  as  old  as  he  may,  doth  never  get  white ;  or  the  monkey, 
which,  the  more  he  performeth,  the  more  he  hath  desire 
to  perform ;  or  the  dog,  for  the  older  he  waxeth,  the  bigger 
doth  he  become;  or  else  the  stag,  forasmuch  as  the  more 
aged  he  is,  the  better  can  he  accomplish  his  duty,  and  the 
does  will  resort  more  willingly  to  him  than  to  the  younger 
members  of  the  herd. 

And  indeed,  to  speak  frankly,  as  I  have  heard  a  great 
personage  of  rank  say  likewise,  what  reason  is  there,  or 
what  power  hath  the  husband  so  great  that  he  may  and 
ought  to  kill  his  wife,  seeing  he  hath  none  such  from  God, 
neither  by  His  law  nor  yet  His  holy  Gospel,  but  only  to 
put  her  away?  He  saith  naught  therein  of  murder,  and 
bloodshedding,  naught  of  death,  tortures  or  imprisonment, 
of  poisons  or  cruelties.  Ah!  but  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
did  well  admonish  us  that  great  wrong  was  in  these  fash- 
ions of  doing  and  these  murders,  and  that  He  did  hardly 

[20] 


:yjvi^t^MMt^t>gMt?sfl^rrrtfrifrmmw^ 


at>«g^ia^4Bi{^tW:^-l^»'P^^ 


or  not  at  all  approve  thereof,  whenas  they  brought  to 
Him  the  poor  woman  accused  of  adultery,  for  that  He 
might  pronounce  her  doom  and  punishment.  He  said 
only  to  them,  writing  with  His  finger  on  the  ground :  "He 
that  is  without  sin  among  you,  let  him  first  cast  a  stone 
at  her," — the  which  not  one  of  them  all  durst  do,  feeling 
themselves  touched  to  the  quick  by  so  wise  and  gentle  a 
rebuke. 

Our  Creator  was  for  teaching  us  all  not  to  be  so  lightly 
ready  to  condemn  folk  and  put  them  to  death,  even  on 
this  count,  well  knowing  the  weakness  of  our  human  Na- 
ture, and  the  violent  errors  some  do  commit  against  it. 
For  such  an  one  doth  cause  his  wife  to  be  put  to  death, 
who  is  more  an  adulterer  than  she,  while  others  again 
often  have  their  wives  slain  though  innocent,  being  aweary 
of  them  and  desiring  to  take  other  fresh  ones.  How  many 
such  there  be!  Yet  doth  Saint  Augustine  say  that  the 
adulterous  man  is  as  much  to  be  punished  as  the  woman. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  very  great  Prince,  and  of  high 
place  in  the  world,  who  suspecting  his  wife  of  false  love 
with  a  certain  gallant  cavalier,  had  him  assassinated  as 
he  came  forth  by  night  from  his  Palace,  and  afterward 
the  lady.  A  little  while  before,  this  latter  at  a  Tourney 
that  was  held  at  Court,  after  fixedly  gazing  at  her  lover 
who  did  manage  his  horse  right  gracefully,  said  suddenly : 
"Great  Lord!  how  well  he  doth  ride!"  "Yea!"  was  the 
unexpected  answer,  "but  he  rides  too  high  an  horse" ;  and 
in  short  time  after  was  he  poisoned  by  means  of  certain 
perfumes  or  by  some  draught  he  swallowed  by  way  of 
the  mouth. 

I  knew  a  Lord  of  a  good  house  who  did  kill  his  wife,  the 
which  was  very  fair  and  of  good  family  and  lineage,  poi- 

[21] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

»|B*aHLBi*L^mvjB^a^l^^ 

soning  her  by  her  private  parts,  without  her  being  ware 
of  it,  so  subtle  and  cunningly  compounded  was  the  said 
poison.  This  did  he  in  order  to  marry  a  great  lady  who 
before  had  been  wife  to  a  Prince,  without  the  influence 
and  protection  of  whose  friends  he  was  in  sad  case,  ex- 
posed to  imprisonment  and  danger.  However  as  his  ill- 
luck  would  have  it,  he  did  not  marry  her  after  all,  but 
was  disappointed  therein  and  brought  into  very  evil 
repute,  and  ill  looked  at  by  all  men  and  honourable  ladies. 

I  have  seen  high  personages  greatly  blame  our  old-time 
Kings,  such  as  Louis  X.  (le  Hutin,  the  Obstinate)  and 
Charles  the  Fair,  for  that  they  did  to  death  their  wives,  — 
the  one  Marguerite,  daughter  of  Robert  Duke  of  Bur- 
gundy, the  other  Blanche,  daughter  of  Othelin  Count  of 
Burgundy,  casting  up  against  them  their  adulteries.  So 
did  they  have  them  cruelly  done  to  death  within  the  four 
walls  of  the  Chateau-Gaillard,  as  did  likewise  the  Comte 
de  Foix  to  Jeanne  d'Arthoys.  Wherein  was  not  so  much 
guilt  or  such  heinous  crimes  as  they  would  have  had  men 
to  believe  ;  but  the  truth  is  the  said  monarchs  were  aweary 
of  their  wives,  and  so  did  bring  up  against  them  these 
fine  charges,  and  after  did  marry  others. 

As  in  yet  another  case,  did  King  Henry  of  England 
have  his  wife  put  to  death  and  beheaded,  to  wit  Anne 
Boleyn,  in  order  to  marry  another,  for  that  he  was  a 
monarch  very  ready  to  shed  blood  and  quick  to  change 
his  wives.  Were  it  not  better  that  they  should  divorce 
them,  according  to  God's  word,  than  thus  cruelly  cause 
them  to  be  slain?  But  no!  they  must  needs  ever  have 
fresh  meat  these  folk,  who  are  fain  to  sit  at  table  apart 
without  inviting  any  to  share  with  them,  or  else  to  have 
new  and  fresh  wives  to  bring  them  gear  after  that  they 

[22] 


i?svitii?K^i^ftstifr«ir/»ifr«rt^^^  .    •    •  wtiMMhwr, 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


have  wasted  that  of  their  first  spouses,  or  else  have  not 
gotten  of  these  enough  to  satisfy  them.  Thus  did 
Baldwyn,2  second  King  of  Jerusalem,  who  making  it  to  be 
believed  of  his  first  wife  that  she  had  played  him  false, 
did  put  her  away,  in  order  to  take  a  daughter  of  the  Duke 
of  Malyterne,3  because  she  had  a  large  sum  of  money 
for  dowry,  whereof  he  stood  in  sore  need.  This  is  to  be 
read  in  the  History  of  the  Holy  Land.4  Truly  it  well 
becomes  these  Princes  to  alter  the  Law  of  God  and  invent 
a  new  one,  to  the  end  they  may  make  away  with  their 
unhappy  wives! 

King  Louis  VII.  (Le  Jeune,  the  Young)  6  did  not  pre- 
cisely so  in  regard  to  Leonore,  duchesse  d'Acquitaine, 
who  being  suspected  of  adultery,  mayhap  falsely,  during 
his  voyaging  in  Syria,  was  repudiated  by  him  on  his  sole 
authority,  without  appealing  to  the  law  of  other  men, 
framed  as  it  is  and  practised  more  by  might  than  by  right 
or  reason.  Whereby  he  did  win  greater  reputation  than 
the  other  Kings  named  above,  and  the  name  of  good, 
while  the  others  were  called  wicked,  cruel  and  tyrannical, 
forasmuch  as  he  had  in  his  soul  some  traces  of  remorse 
and  truth.  And  this  forsooth  is  to  live  a  Christian  life! 
Why!  the  heathen  Romans  themselves  did  for  the  most 
part  herein  behave  more  Christianly;  and  above  all  sun- 
dry of  their  Emperors,  of  whom  the  more  part  were 
subject  to  be  cuckolds,  and  their  wives  exceeding  lustful 
and  whorish.  Yet  cruel  as  they  were,  we  read  of  many 
who  did  rid  themselves  of  their  wives  more  by  divorces 
than  by  murders  such  as  we  that  are  Christians  do 
commit. 

Julius  Caesar  did  no  further  hurt  to  his  wife  Pompeia, 
but  only  divorced  her,  who  had  done  adultery  with  Publius 

[23] 


B^iy^iff^ig^giff^iggig^i^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gsya^^iMii^ffiy^yiii^e^i^^ 

Clodius,  a  young  and  handsome  Roman  nobleman.  For 
being  madly  in  love  with  her,  and  she  with  him,  he  did 
spy  out  the  opportunity  when  one  day  she  was  perform- 
ing a  sacrifice  in  her  house,  to  which  only  women  were 
admitted.  So  he  did  dress  himself  as  a  girl,  for  as  yet 
had  he  no  beard  on  chin,  and  joining  in  the  singing  and 
playing  of  instruments  and  so  passing  muster,  had  leisure 
to  do  that  he  would  with  his  mistress.  However,  being 
presently  recognized,  he  was  driven  forth  and  brought  to 
trial,  but  by  dint  of  bribery  and  influence  was  acquitted, 
and  no  more  came  of  the  thing. 

Cicero  expended  his  Latin  in  vain  in  a  fine  speech  he 
did  deliver  against  him.  True  it  is  that  Caesar,  wishful 
of  convincing  the  public  who  would  have  him  deem  his 
wife  innocent,  did  reply  that  he  desired  his  bed  not  alone 
to  be  unstained  with  guilt,  but  free  from  all  suspicion. 
This  was  well  enough  by  way  of  so  satisfying  the  world ; 
but  in  his  soul  he  knew  right  well  what  the  thing  meant, 
his  wife  being  thus  found  with  her  lover.  Little  doubt 
she  had  given  him  the  assignation  and  opportunity;  for 
herein,  when  the  woman  doth  wish  and  desire  it,  no  need 
for  the  lover  to  trouble  his  head  to  devise  means  and  occa- 
sions; for  verily  will  she  find  more  in  an  hour  than  all 
the  rest  of  us  men  together  would  be  able  to  contrive 
in  an  hundred  years.  As  saith  a  certain  lady  of  rank 
of  mine  acquaintance,  who  doth  declare  to  her  lover: 
"Only  do  you  find  means  to  make  me  wish  to  come,  and 
never  fear!  I  will  find  ways  enough." 

Caesar  moreover  knew  right  well  the  measure  of  these 
matters,  for  himself  was  a  very  great  debauchee,  and  was 
known  by  the  title  of  the  cock  for  all  hens.  Many  a  hus- 
band did  he  make  cuckold  in  his  city,  as  witness  the  nick- 

[24] 


r^r;fi\ifoW«&ir7iflr?^/^ir^C7ffi 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

name  given  him  by  his  soldiers  at  his  Triumph  in  the 
verse  they  did  sing  thereat:  Romani,  servate  uxores; 
moechum  adducimus  calvum, 

(Romans,  look  well  to  your  wives,  for  we  bring  you 
the  bald-headed  fornicator,  who  will  debauch  'em  every 
one.) 

See  then  how  that  Caesar  by  this  wise  and  cunning 
answer  he  made  about  his  wife,  did  shake  himself  free  of 
bearing  himself  the  name  of  cuckold,  the  which  he  made 
so  many  others  to  endure.  But  in  his  heart,  he  knew 
for  all  that  how  that  he  was  galled  to  the  quick. 


3. 


CTAVIUS  CAESAR1  likewise  did  put  away 
his  wife  Scribonia  for  the  sake  of  his  own 
lecherousness,  without  other  cause,  though 
at  the  same  time  without  doing  her  any  other 
hurt,  albeit  she  had  good  excuse  to  make  him  cuckold,  by 
reason  of  an  infinity  of  ladies  that  he  had  relations  with. 
Indeed  before  their  husbands'  very  faces  he  would  openly 
lead  them  away  from  table  at  those  banquets  he  was 
used  to  give  them;  then  presently,  after  doing  his  will 
with  them,  would  send  them  back  again  with  hair 
dishevelled  and  disordered,  and  red  ears,- — a  sure  sign 
of  what  they  had  been  at!  Not  that  myself  did  ever 
elsewhere  hear  tell  of  this  last  as  a  distinctive  mark 
whereby  to  discover  such  doings;  a  red  face  for  a  cer- 
tainty have  I  heard  so  spoken  of,  but  red  ears  never. 
So  he  did  gain  the  repute  of  being  exceeding  lecherous, 
and  even  Mark  Antony  reproached  him  therewith;  but  he 
was  used  to  excuse  himself,  saying  he  did  not  so  much 

[25] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Jl^t^t*8W»«^l^8f«^liiilt3aa4^ 


go  with  these  ladies  for  mere  wantonness,  as  thereby  to 
discover  more  easily  the  secrets  of  their  husbands,  whom 
he  did  distrust. 

I  have  known  not  a  few  great  men  and  others,  which 
have  done  after  the  same  sort  and  have  sought  after 
ladies  with  this  same  object,  wherein  they  have  had  good 
hap.  Indeed  I  could  name  sundry  which  have  adopted 
this  good  device;  for  good  it  is,  as  yielding  a  twofold 
pleasure.  In  this  wise  was  Catiline's  conspiracy  dis- 
covered by  the  means  of  a  courtesan. 

The  same  Octavius  was  once  seriously  minded  to  put 
to  death  his  daughter  Julia,  wife  of  Agrippa,  for  that 
she  had  been  a  notorious  harlot,  and  had  wrought  great 
shame  to  him, — for  verily  sometimes  daughters  do  bring 
more  dishonour  on  their  fathers  than  wives  on  their  hus- 
bands. Still  he  did  nothing  more  than  banish  her  the 
country,  and  deprive  of  the  use  of  wine  and  the  wearing 
of  fine  clothing,  compelling  her  to  wear  poor  folk's  dress, 
by  way  of  signal  punishment,  as  also  of  the  society  of 
men.  And  this  is  in  sooth  a  sore  deprivation  for  women 
of  this  kidney,  to  rob  them  of  the  two  last  named  grati- 
fications ! 

Another  Emperor,  and  very  cruel  tyrant,  Caligula,2  did 
suspect  that  his  wife,  Livia  Hostilia,  had  by  stealth 
cheated  him  of  sundry  of  her  favours,  and  bestowed  the 
same  on  her  first  husband,  Caius  Piso,  from  whom  he 
had  taken  her  away  by  force.  This  last  was  still  alive,  and 
was  deemed  to  have  received  of  her  some  pleasure  and 
gratification  of  her  fair  body,  the  while  the  Emperor  was 
away  on  a  journey.  Yet  did  he  not  indulge  his  usual 
cruelty  toward  her,  but  only  banished  her  from  him,  two 

[26] 


Bggsaggaswfflgffl^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


^jijjAii^ta^ji^i^t^^i^t^ 


years  after  he  had  first  taken  her  from  her  husband  Piso 
and  married  her. 

He  did  the  same  to  Tullia  Paulina,  whom  he  had  taken 
from  her  husband  Caius  Memmius.  He  exiled  her  and 
that  was  all,  but  in  this  case  with  the  express  prohibition 
to  have  naught  to  do  at  all  with  the  gentle  art  of  love, 
neither  with  any  other  men  nor  yet  with  her  husband 
— truly  a  cruel  and  rigorous  order  so  far  as  the  last 
was  concerned ! 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  Christian  Prince,  and  a  great 
one,  who  laid  the  same  prohibition  on  a  lady  whom  he 
affected,  and  on  her  husband  likewise,  by  no  means  to 
touch  her,  so  jealous  was  he  of  her  favours. 

Claudius,3  son  of  Drusus  Germanicus,  merely  put  away 
his  wife  Plautia  Urgulanilla,  for  having  shown  herself  a 
most  notorius  harlot,  and  what  is  worse,  for  that  he  had 
heard  how  she  had  made  an  attempt  upon  his  life.  Yet 
cruel  as  he  was,  though  surely  these  two  reasons  were 
enough  to  lead  him  to  put  her  to  death,  he  was  content 
with  divorce  only. 

Then  again,  for  how  long  a  time  did  he  endure  the  wild 
doings  and  filthy  debaucheries  of  Valeria  Messalina,  his 
second  wife,  who  was  not  content  with  doing  it  with  one 
and  another  here  and  there  in  dissolute  and  abandoned 
sort,  but  made  it  her  regular  practice  to  go  to  the 
brothels  to  get  gratification  of  her  passions,  like  the  big- 
gest strumpet  in  all  the  city.  So  far  did  she  go,  as 
Juvenal  doth  describe,  that  so  soon  as  ever  her  husband 
was  to  bed  with  her,  she  would  slip  lightly  away  from 
beside  him,  when  she  saw  him  fast  asleep  and  disguising 
herself  the  best  she  could,  would  hie  her  to  some  common 
brothel,  where  she  took  all  she  could  get,  and  still  would 

[27] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

retire  weary  rather  than  replete  or  satisfied.  Nay !  she  did 
even  worse.  For  her  better  contentment,  and  to  win  the 
repute  and  self-satisfaction  of  being  a  good  harlot  and 
accomplished  light-o'-love,  she  did  even  ask  for  pay- 
ment, and  would  tax  each  round  and  each  several  act,  like 
a  travelling  cess-collector,  to  the  last  doit. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  lady  of  the  great  world,  and  of 
no  mean  lineage  neither,  who  for  some  while  did  follow 
the  same  life,  and  went  thus  to  the  common  brothels  in 
disguise,  to  make  trial  of  this  way  of  existence,  and  get 
gratification  of  her  passions, — so  much  so  that  one  night 
the  town-guard,  while  making  their  rounds,  did  actually 
arrest  her  unwittingly.  And  indeed  there  be  other  ladies 
too  which  play  these  pranks,  as  is  well  enough  known. 

Boccaccio  4  in  his  book  of  "Great  Folks  that  have  been 
Unhappy,"  doth  speak  of  this  Messalina  in  gentle  terms, 
and  representeth  her  making  excuse  for  her  ill  behaviour, 
forasmuch  as  she  was  born  by  nature  altogether  for  this 
course  of  life,  the  day  of  her  birth  being  signalized  by  signs 
in  the  heavens  which  do  show  in  all  cases  an  hot  and  fiery 
complexion.  Her  husband  was  ware  of  it,  and  bore  long 
with  her, — until  he  learned  how  that  she  was  secretly  mar- 
ried to  Caius  Silius,  one  of  the  handsome  gallants  of  Rome. 
So  seeing  the  matter  was  as  good  as  a  plot  upon  his  life, 
he  had  her  put  to  death  on  this  count,  though  in  no  wise 
for  her  lechery;  for  this  he  was  well  accustomed  to  see 
and  know,  and  to  condone  the  same. 

Anyone  who  hath  seen  the  statue  of  the  aforesaid 
Messalina  found  in  these  last  days  at  the  town  of  Bor- 
deaux will  readily  allow  she  did  indeed  bear  the  true  look 
that  comported  with  such  a  life.  'Tis  an  antique  medal, 
found  among  some  ruins ;  and  is  very  fine  and  well  worthy 

[28] 


^^^^•wswffl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a^SMiMiMi&aiiSaa^^ 

to  be  preserved  to  look  at  and  carefully  examine.  She  is 
a  very  fine  woman,  of  a  very  fine,  tall  figure,  with  hand- 
some features,  and  hair  gracefully  dressed  in  the  old 
Roman  fashion,  and  of  very  great  stature, — all  manifest- 
ing she  was  what  History  doth  declare  her  to  have  been. 
For,  by  what  I  gather  from  sundry  philosophers,  physi- 
cians and  physiognomists,  big  women  be  naturally  in- 
clined and  well  disposed  to  this  thing.  In  truth  such 
women  are  of  a  manly  build,  and  so  being,  have  share 
in  the  hot  passions  both  of  men  and  women,  and  con- 
joining the  natures  of  both  in  one  bodily  frame,  are  thus 
more  passionate  and  do  possess  more  vigour  than  one 
alone, — even  as,  they  say,  a  great  and  deep-laden  ship 
doth  need  deep  water  to  bear  her  up.  Moreover,  by  what 
the  learned  Doctors  that  be  expert  in  the  mysteries  of 
love  declare,  a  big  woman  is  more  apt  and  more  delight- 
some thereto  than  a  small  one. 

The  which  doth  mind  me  of  a  very  great  Prince,  whom 
I  once  knew.  Wishing  to  commend  a  certain  woman 
whose  favours  he  had  enjoyed,  he  said  in  this  wise: 
"  'Tis  a  most  excellent  harlot,  as  big  as  my  lady  mother." 
Whereon  being  checked  at  the  over-reckless  vivacity  of  his 
speech,  he  did  explain  how  that  he  meant _  not  to  say 
she  was  as  great  a  harlot  as  his  mother,  but  that  she  was 
of  the  like  stature  and  as  tall  as  was  his  mother.  For 
sometimes  a  man  doth  say  things  he  intendeth  in  no  wise 
to  say,  as  sometimes  on  the  other  hand  he  will  say,  with- 
out intending,  the  very  actual  truth. 

Thus  we  see  there  is  better  cheer  with  big,  tall  women 
than  with  little  ones,  were  it  only  for  the  noble  grace 
and  majesty,  which  they  do  own.  For  in  this  matter 
are  these  qualities  as  much  called  for  and  as  attractive 

[29] 


few^rtiw^ftftaya?^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

SESiytM^aya&aMi^^ 

as  in  other  exploits  and  exercises, — neither  more  nor 
less  for  example  than  in  horsemanship.  Wherein  the 
riding  of  a  tall  and  noble  charger  of  blood  is  an  hundred 
fold  more  agreeable  and  pleasant  than  is  that  of  a  little 
pony,  and  doth  give  more  enjoyment  by  far  to  the  cavalier. 
Albeit  must  the  same  be  a  good  rider,  and  carry  himself 
well,  and  show  much  more  strength  and  address.  In  sim- 
ilar wise  must  a  man  carry  himself  toward  fine,  tall 
women;  for  that  such  as  be  of  this  stature  are  wont  to 
have  a  higher-stepping  gait  than  others,  and  will  full 
often  make  riders  slip  their  stirrup,  nay!  even  lose  their 
saddle  altogether,  as  I  have  heard  some  tell  which  have 
essayed  to  mount  them.  In  which  case  do  they  straight 
make  boast  and  great  mockery,  whenas  they  have  unseated 
them  and  thrown  them  flat.  So  have  I  been  told  of  a  cer- 
tain lady  of  the  good  town  of  Paris,  the  which,  the  first 
time  her  lover  did  stay  with  her,  said  to  him  frankly: 
"Embrace  me  with  a  will,  and  clip  me  tight  to  you  as 
well  as  ever  you  can ;  and  ride  boldly,  for  I  am  high-paced, 
— so  beware  of  a  fall.  So  for  your  part  spare  me  not ;  I 
am  strong  enough  and  expert  enough  to  bear  your 
assaults,  be  they  as  fierce  as  they  may.  For  indeed,  if 
you  spare  me,  will  I  not  spare  you.  A  good  ball  de- 
serveth  a  good  return."  But  insooth  the  lady  did  win 
the  match. 

Thus  must  a  man  take  good  heed  to  his  behaviour  with 
suchlike  bold,  merry,  stalwart,  fleshly  and  well-built 
dames ;  and  though  truly  the  superabundant  heat  that  is 
in  them  doth  give  great  contentment,  yet  will  they  at 
times  be  overpressing  by  reason  of  their  excessive  pas- 
sionateness.  However,  as  the  proverb  saith:  There  be 
good  hinds  of  all  sizes,  so  likewise  are  there  little,  dwarf- 

[30] 


!teWtiteWag"ffi?w5Bfifl^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ffi^ma&^aMiMiMiMiM^ 

ish  women  which  have  action,  grace  and  manner  in  these 
matters  coming  very  nigh  to  their  taller  sisters, — or 
mayhap  they  be  fain  to  copy  them, — and  as  keen  for  the 
fray  as  they,  or  even  more  so,  (I  would  appeal  to  the 
masters  in  these  arts),  just  as  a  little  horse  will  curvet 
every  whit  as  nimbly  as  a  big  one.  This  bringeth  to  mind 
the  saying  of  a  worthy  husband,  who  declared  his  wife 
was  like  divers  animals  and  above  all  like  an  ape,  for  that 
when  a-bed  she  would  do  naught  but  twist  and  turn  and 
toss  about. 

Sundry  reminiscences  have  beguiled  me  into  this  digres- 
sion. 'Tis  time  now  to  come  back  again  to  our  original 
discussion. 

Another  case.  That  cruel  tyrant  Nero  5  did  content 
himself  with  the  mere  putting  away  of  his  wife  Octavia, 
daughter  of  Claudius  and  Messalina,  for  her  adultery; 
and  his  cruelty  stopped  thereat. 

Domitian  6  did  even  better,  who  divorced  his  wife  Lon- 
gina,  because  she  was  so  fondly  enamoured  of  a  certain 
comedian  and  buffoon  named  Paris,  and  did  naught  else 
all  day  long  but  play  the  wanton  with  him,  neglecting  the 
society  of  her  husband  altogether.  Yet,  after  no  long 
time,  did  he  take  her  back  again  and  repented  him  of 
the  separation  from  her.  Remember  this:  the  said 
mountebank  had  taught  her  meantime  sundry  tricks  of 
adroitness  and  cunning  address,  the  which  the  Emperor 
did  hope  he  would  have  good  profit  of ! 

Pertinax  7  did  show  a  like  clemency  toward  his  wife 
Favia  Sulpitiana.  Not  indeed  that  he  did  divorce  her, 
nor  yet  take  her  again,  but  though  well  knowing  her  to 
be  devoted  to  a  singer  and  player  of  instruments  of 
music,  and  to  give  all  her  love  to  the  same,  yet  made  he  no 

[31] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gayaiyayiiiy^gi&aK^^ 

complaint,  but  let  her  do  her  will.  Meanwhile  himself 
pursued  an  intrigue  with  one  Cornificia,  who  was  his 
own  cousin  german.  Herein  he  did  but  follow  the  opinion 
of  Heliogabalus,  who  was  used  to  say  there  was  naught 
in  the  world  more  excellent  than  the  frequenting  of  one's 
own  relations,  male  and  female.  Many  there  be  that  I 
wot  of,  which  have  made  such  exchanges  and  had  such- 
like dealings,  going  upon  the  opinions  of  these  two 
Princes ! 

So  likewise  did  the  Emperor  Severus  8  take  no  heed  of 
his  wife's  honour  or  dishonour,  though  she  was  a  public 
harlot.  Yet  did  he  never  think  of  correcting  her  therefor, 
saying  only  she  was  called  Julia  by  her  name,  and  that  all 
who  bare  that  name  had  from  all  time  been  fated  to  be 
mighty  whores  and  to  cuckold  their  husbands.  In  like  wise 
do  I  know  many  ladies  bearing  certain  names  under  this 
our  Christian  dispensation, — I  will  not  say  who  they  be 
for  the  respect  I  owe  to  our  holy  Religion, — the  which  are 
constantly  used  to  be  strumpets  and  to  lift  the  leg  more 
than  other  women  bearing  other  names.  Of  such  have 
been  very  few  which  have  escaped  this  evil  fate. 

Well!  of  a  truth  I  should  never  have  done,  were  I  to 
adduce  all  the  infinity  of  examples  of  great  ladies  and 
Roman  Emperors  of  yore,  in  whose  case  their  husbands, 
though  sore  cajoled  and  albeit  very  cruel  men,  did  yet 
refrain  them  from  exerting  their  cruelty  and  undoubted 
rights  and  privileges  against  their  wives,  no  matter  how 
dissolute  and  ill-conducted  these  were.  I  ween  few  prudes 
were  there  in  those  old  days,  as  indeed  is  sufficiently 
declared  in  the  history  of  their  lives,  and  as  may  be  plainly 
discerned  by  careful  examination  of  ancient  portraits  and 
medallions  representing  them;  for  indeed  you  may  behold 

[32] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a^yafeai&aii^MiMi^ 

in  their  fair  faces  this  same  lubricity  manifestly  and 
obviously  displayed  by  chisel  and  graver.  Yet  did  their 
husbands,  cruel  Princes  as  these  were,  pardon  them,  and 
did  put  none  of  them  to  death,  or  but  a  very  few.  So 
would  it  seem  true  that  these  Pagans,  not  knowing  God, 
yet  were  so  gentle  and  clement  toward  their  wives  and 
the  human  race,  while  the  most  part  of  our  Kings,  Princes, 
great  Lords  and  other  Christian  men,  be  so  cruel  toward 
the  same  for  a  like  offence. 


4. 

JATHELESS  must  we  herein  greatly  commend 
our  brave  and  good  Philip  Augustus,1  King 
of  France,  who  after  having  put  away  his  wife 
Angerberge,  sister  of  Canute,  King  of  Den- 
mark, which  was  his  second  wife,  under  pretext  she  was 
his  cousin  in  the  third  degree  on  the  side  of  his  first  wife 
Ysabel,  though  others  say  he  did  suspect  her  of  unfaith- 
fulness, yet  did  the  said  King,  under  the  weight  of  eccle- 
siastical censures,  albeit  he  had  married  again  elsewhere, 
take  her  back  again,  and  so  conveyed  her  home  behind 
him  on  horseback,  without  the  privity  of  the  Diet  of 
Soissons,  that  had  been  summoned  to  decide  this  very 
matter,  but  was  too  dilatory  to  come  to  any  conclusion 
thereon. 

Nowadays  never  a  one  of  our  great  men  will  do  the 
like;  but  the  least  punishment  they  do  their  wives  is  to 
shut  them  up  in  perpetual  prison,  on  bread  and  water, 
poisoning  them  or  killing  them,  whether  by  their  own 
hand  or  by  legal  process.  If  they  have  so  great  a  desire 
to  be  rid  of  them  and  marry  others,  as  doth  often  happen, 

[33] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


why  do  they  not  divorce  them  and  honourably  separate 
from  them,  without  doing  other  hurt,  and  then  ask  power 
of  the  Pope  to  marry  another  wife?  For  surely  what 
God  hath  joined  together,  man  (without  God's  authority) 
may  in  no  wise  separate.  Yet  have  we  had  sundry  ex- 
amples thereof,  and  notably  those  of  our  French  Kings 
Charles  VIII.  2  and  Louis  XII.  3  Whereanent  I  did  once 
hear  a  great  Theologian  discourse,  namely  with  regard 
to  the  late  King  Philip  of  Spain,  who  had  married  his 
niece,  the  mother  of  the  present  King,  and  this  by  dis- 
pensation. He  said  thus:  "Either  must  we  outright 
allow  the  Pope  to  be  God's  Vicegerent  on  earth,  and  so 
absolutely,  or  else  not  at  all.  If  he  is,  as  we  Catholics 
are  bound  to  believe,  we  must  entirely  confess  his  power 
as  absolute  and  unbounded  on  earth,  and  without  limit, 
and  that  he  can  tie  and  untie  as  good  him  seemeth.  But 
if  we  do  not  hold  him  such,  well,  I  am  sorry  for  them  that 
be  in  such  error,  but  good  Catholics  have  naught  to  do 
with  them."  Wherefore  hath  our  Holy  Father  authority 
over  dissolutions  of  marriage,  and  can  allay  many  grave 
inconveniences  which  come  therefrom  to  husband  and 
wife,  when  they  do  ill  agree  together. 

Certainly  women  are  greatly  blameworthy  so  to  treat 
their  husbands  and  violate  their  good  faith,  the  which 
God  hath  so  strongly  charged  them  to  observe.  But  yet 
on  the  other  hand  hath  he  straitly  forbid  murder,  and 
it  is  highly  detestable  to  Him,  on  whosesoever  part  it  be. 
Never  yet  hardly  have  I  seen  bloody  folk  and  murderers, 
above  all  of  their  wives,  but  they  have  paid  dear  for  it, 
and  very  few  lovers  of  blood  have  ended  well,  whereas 
many  women  that  have  been  sinners  have  won  the  pity 
of  God  and  obtained  mercy,  as  did  the  Magdalen. 

[34] 


gTfflgW^WffffWfflrfW^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

In  very  deed  these  poor  women  are  creatures  more 
nearly  resembling  the  Divinity  than  we,  because  of  their 
beauty.  For  what  is  beautiful  is  more  near  akin  to  God 
who  is  all  beautiful,  than  the  ugly,  which  belongeth  to  the 
Devil. 

The  good  Alfonzo,  King  of  Naples,  was  used  to  say 
how  that  beauty  was  a  token  of  good  and  gentle  manners, 
as  the  fair  flower  is  token  of  a  good  and  fair  fruit.  And 
insooth  have  I  seen  in  my  life  many  fair  women  who 
were  altogether  good ;  who  though  they  did  indeed  indulge 
in  love,  did  commit  no  evil,  nor  take  heed  for  aught  else 
but  only  this  pleasure,  and  thereto  applied  all  their  care 
without  a  second  thought. 

Others  again  have  I  seen  most  ill-conditioned,  harmful, 
dangerous,  cruel  and  exceeding  spiteful,  naught  hindering 
them  from  caring  for  love  and  evil-doing  both  together. 

It  may  then  well  be  asked, — why,  being  thus  subject  to 
the  fickle  and  suspicious  humour  of  their  husbands,  the 
which  do  deserve  punishment  ten  times  more  in  God's 
eyes,  why  they  are  so  sorely  punished?  Indeed  and  in- 
deed the  complexion  and  humour  of  such  folk  is  as  griev- 
ous as  is  the  sorry  task  of  writing  of  them. 

I  speak  next  of  yet  another  such,  a  Lord  of  Dalmatia, 
who  having  slain  his  wife's  paramour,  did  compel  her  to 
bed  habitually  with  his  dead  body,  stinking  carrion  as 
it  was.  The  end  whereof  was,  the  unhappy  woman  was 
choked  with  the  evil  stench  she  did  endure  for  several 
days. 

In  the  Cent  Nouvelles  of  the  Queen  of  Navarre  will  be 
found  the  most  touching  and  saddest  tale  that  can  be 
read  on  this  matter,  the  tale  of  that  fair  lady  of  Ger- 
many the  which  her  husband  was  used  to  constrain  to 

[35] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

at^a^iiyii&Miyii&ai^ 

drink  ever  from  the  skull  of  her  dead  lover,  whom  he  had 
slain.  This  piteous  sight  did  the  Seigneur  Bernage,  at 
that  day  ambassador  in  the  said  country  for  the  French 
King  Charles  VIII.,  see  and  make  report  thereof. 

The  first  time  ever  I  was  in  Italy,  I  was  told,  when 
passing  through  Venice,  what  did  purport  to  be  a  true 
story  of  a  certain  Albanian  knight,  the  which  having 
surprised  his  wife  in  adultery,  did  kill  the  lover.  And 
for  spite  that  his  wife  had  not  been  content  with  him, 
for  indeed  he  was  a  gallant  knight,  and  well  fitted  for 
Love's  battles,  so  much  so  that  he  could  engage  ten  or 
twelve  times  over  in  one  night,  he  did  contrive  a  strange 
punishment,  and  so  did  seek  out  carefully  in  all  quarters 
a  dozen  stout  fellows  of  the  right  lecherous  sort,  who 
had  the  repute  of  being  well  and  vigorously  built  and  very 
adroit  in  action.  These  he  took  and  hired,  and  engaged 
the  same  for  money.  Then  he  did  lock  them  in  his  wife's 
chamber,  who  was  a  very  fair  woman,  and  gave  her  up  to 
them,  beseeching  them  one  and  all  to  do  their  duty  thor- 
oughly, with  double  pay  if  that  they  did  acquit  themselves 
really  well.  Thus  did  they  all  go  at  her,  one  after  another, 
and  did  handle  her  in  such  wise  that  they  did  kill  her,  —  to 
the  great  pleasure  of  her  husband,  who  did  cast  it  in  her 
teeth,  when  she  was  nigh  unto  death,  that  having  loved 
this  pleasure  so  much,  she  could  now  have  her  fill  thereof. 
Herein  he  but  copied  what  Semiramis  (or  rather 
Thomyris)  said,  as  she  put  Cyrus'  head  into  a  vessel  full 
of  blood.  A  terrible  death  truly  ! 

The  poor  lady  had  not  so  died,  if  only  she  had  been 
of  the  robust  complexion  of  a  girl  that  was  in  Caesar's 
camp  in  Gaul.  Two  legions  did  pass,  'tis  said,  over  her 

[36] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


body  in  brief  space ;  yet  at  the  end  of  all  she  did  dance  a 
fling,  feeling  no  hurt  thereof. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  Frenchwoman,  town-bred,  a 
lady  of  birth  and  of  handsome  looks,  who  was  violated 
in  our  civil  wars,  in  a  town  taken  by  assault,  by  a  multi- 
tude of  men-at-arms.  On  escaping  away  from  these,  she 
did  consult  a  worthy  Father  as  to  whether  she  had  sinned 
greatly,  first  telling  him  her  story.  He  said,  no! — inas- 
much as  she  had  been  had  by  force,  and  deflowered  with- 
out her  consent,  but  entirely  misliking  the  thing.  Where- 
on she  did  make  answer:  "Now  God  be  praised,  for  that 
once  in  my  life  I  have  had  my  fill,  without  sinning  or 
doing  offence  to  God !" 

A  lady  of  good  quality,  having  been  in  like  wise  vio- 
lated at  the  time  of  the  Massacre  of  Saint  Bartholomew, 
and  her  husband  being  dead,  she  did  ask  of  a  man  of 
knowledge  and  right  feeling,  whether  she  had  offended 
God,  and  whether  she  would  not  be  punished  of  His 
sternness,  and  if  she  had  not  sorely  wronged  the  manes 
of  her  husband,  who  had  but  only  quite  late  been  slain. 
He  answered  her,  that  if,  when  she  was  at  this  work, 
she  had  taken  pleasure  therein,  then  had  she  surely 
sinned ;  but  if  she  had  felt  but  disgust  at .  the  thing,  it 
was  as  if  it  had  never  been.  A  good  and  wise  judge- 
ment! 

I  once  knew  well  a  lady  who  held  quite  other  views,  for 
she  was  used  to  say :  Never  did  she  feel  so  great  a  pleasure 
in  these  doings,  as  when  she  was  half  forced  and  all  but 
violated  as  it  were,  and  then  was  there  much  pleasure 
therein.  The  more  a  woman  showeth  herself  rebellious 
and  recalcitrant,  so  much  the  more  doth  the  man  wax 
ardent  and  push  home  the  attack;  and  so  having  once 

[37] 


BrWffW^BfiffifgBreiggB^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


forced  the  breach,  he  doth  use  his  victory  more  fiercely 
and  savagely,  and  thereby  giveth  more  appetite  to  the 
woman.  The  latter  is  for  very  delight  like  one  half  dead 
and  swooned,  or  so  it  seemeth;  but  really  'tis  by  reason 
of  the  extreme  pleasure  she  findeth  therein.  Indeed  the 
same  lady  did  actually  say  further,  that  oftentimes  she 
would  make  these  ados  and  show  resistance  to  her  hus- 
band, and  play  the  prudish,  capricious  and  scornful  wife, 
and  so  put  him  the  more  on  his  mettle.  Whereby  when 
he  did  come  to  it,  both  he  and  she  did  find  an  hundred- 
fold more  pleasure;  for  many  writers  have  noted,  a 
woman  pleaseth  better  who  makes  some  little  difficulties 
and  resistances  than  when  she  lets  herself  straightway 
be  taken.  So  in  War  is  a  victory  won  by  force  more 
signalised  and  hailed  with  greater  delight  and  enthusiasm 
than  when  had  for  nothing,  and  the  triumph  thereof  is 
sweeter.  Yet  must  not  the  lady  in  all  this  overdo  the 
part  of  the  peevish  and  evil-tempered  jade,  else  may  she 
likely  be  mistaken  rather  for  a  silly  whore  wishful  to  be 
playing  of  the  prude.  But  at  such  interference  would  she 
be  sore  offended,  to  go  by  what  I  am  told  by  such  dames 
as  are  most  versed  and  apt  in  these  matters,  to  the  whom 
I  do  appeal.  For  far  be  it  from  me  to  give  them  in- 
struction in  things  they  do  understand  much  better 
than  I  ! 

Again,  I  have  known  many  greatly  blame  some  of  these 
callous  and  murderous  husbands  on  one  count  in  especial, 
namely  that,  if  their  wives  be  whores,  themselves  are  the 
cause  of  it.  For,  as  Saint  Augustine  saith,  it  is  great 
foolishness  in  an  husband  to  demand  chastity  of  his  wife, 
himself  being  all  the  while  plunged  in  the  slough  of  lech- 
erous living;  for  such  mode  of  life  as  he  doth  claim  from 

[38] 


gg'KBTWWWIgWW^IgWWglg 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


jgigsssglstiaBi^^i^ii^ 


his  wife,  the  same  he  should  follow  himself.  Moreover  we 
do  read  in  Holy  Scripture  how  that  it  is  not  expedient 
that  the  husband  and  wife  love  each  other  so  excessively, 
meaning  by  this  with  a  wanton  and  lecherous  love.  For 
in  that  case  do  they  set  all  their  heart  and  mind  on  lustful 
pleasures,  and  think  so  much  of  these  and  give  themselves 
up  so  entirely  to  the  same,  as  that  they  do  neglect  the 
love  which  they  owe  to  God.  Thus  have  I  myself  seen 
many  women  who  so  loved  their  husbands,  and  their  hus- 
bands them,  and  burned  for  them  with  such  ardour,  as 
that  both  of  them  did  forget  God's  service  utterly,  inas- 
much as  the  time  they  should  have  given  thereto,  they 
did  devote  to  their  lecheries  and  employ  the  whole  of  it 
therein. 

Furthermore,  and  this  is  a  yet  worse  thing,  these  same 
husbands  do  teach  their  wives  a  thousand  lecheries.  The 
end  is  that  for  one  fire  brand  of  lust  they  have  in  their 
body  to  begin  with,  they  do  engender  an  hundred,  and 
so  make  them  exceeding  lascivious,  so  that  being  so 
trained  and  instructed,  they  cannot  later  refrain  them- 
selves from  leaving  their  husbands  to  go  after  other 
swains.  Whereat  are  their  husbands  in  despair,  and  do 
punish  their  poor  wives  sorely.  Herein  they  do  commit 
great  injustice,  for  it  is  only  natural  the  wives,  whenas 
they  feel  their  heart  stirred  with  satisfaction  at  being  so 
well  trained,  should  then  wish  to  show  others  all  they 
know ;  but  the  husbands  would  fain  have  them  hide  their 
science.  In  all  this  is  neither  sense  nor  reason,  no  more 
than  if  a  good  horseman  should  have  a  well-trained  horse, 
which  could  go  all  paces,  and  yet  should  suffer  no  man 
to  see  the  same  tried  or  to  mount  on  its  back,  but  should 

[39] 


PWJMTWWWW^raSffia^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

require  folk  to  believe  it  on  his  mere  word,  and  take  the 
beast  without  other  warranty. 

I  have  heard  tell  of  an  honourable  gentleman  of  the 
great  world,  who  having  fallen  deep  in  love  with  a  certain 
fair  lady,  was  warned  by  a  friend  of  his  how  that  he  was 
but  wasting  his  time,  seeing  she  did  love  her  husband 
far  too  well.  So  one  day  he  did  contrive  to  make  an  hole 
which  looked  right  into  their  room.  Then  when  they 
were  together,  he  failed  not  to  spy  at  them  through  this 
hole,  whereby  he  did  behold  the  greatest  lubricities  and 
lecheries,  and  this  as  much,  nay!  even  more,  on  the  part 
of  the  wife  than  of  the  husband.  Accordingly  the  next 
day  he  hied  him  to  his  comrade,  and  detailing  all  the 
fine  sight  he  had  had,  did  thus  say  to  him:  "  The  woman 
is  mine,  I  tell  you,  so  soon  as  ever  the  husband  hath 
started  on  such  and  such  a  journey;  for  she  will  never 
be  able  for  long  to  restrain  herself  under  the  ardour 
which  nature  and  art  as  well  have  given  her,  but  must 
needs  assuage  the  same.  And  in  this  wise  by  dint  of  my 
perseverance  shall  I  have  her." 

I  know  yet  another  honourable  gentleman,  the  which 
being  exceedingly  enamoured  of  a  fair  and  honourable 
lady,  aware  she  had  a  copy  of  Aretino  with  pictures  in 
her  closet,  as  her  husband  well  knew  and  had  seen  and 
did  allow,  straightway  augured  therefrom  that  he  would 
overcome  her.  And  so  without  losing  hope,  did  he  make 
love  to  her  so  well,  and  so  long  and  patiently,  that  at  the 
last  he  did  win  the  day.  And  hereon  did  he  find  that 
she  had  indeed  learned  good  lessons  and  excellent  science, 
whether  from  her  husband  or  from  others,  albeit  neither 
the  one  nor  the  other  had  been  her  first  masters,  but 
Dame  Nature  rather,  who  was  a  better  mistress  therein 

[40] 


yftMWft\fFsarm*ss7*smfi^^ 

LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

giMiMiMiMi^iMiMia^yiii^^ 

than  all  the  arts.  Not  but  what  the  book  and  good  prac- 
tice had  helped  much  in  the  matter,  as  she  did  later  con- 
fess to  him. 

We  read  in  ancient  Writers  of  a  great  courtesan  and 
procuress  of  the  days  of  old  Rome,  by  name  Elephan- 
tin£,  4  who  did  make  and  invent  postures  or  modes  of  the 
same  sort  as  those  of  Aretino,  but  even  worse,  the  which 
the  great  ladies  and  princesses  of  yore,  following  the 
ways  of  harlotry,  did  study  as  being  a  very  excellent  book. 

Also  that  good  dame  and  famous  whore  of  Cyrene  in 
Africa,  who  did  bear  the  title  of  Dodecamechanos  (she  of 
the  twelve  devices),  because  she  had  discovered  twelve 
several  modes  whereby  to  make  the  pleasure  more  wanton 
and  voluptuous. 

Heliogabalus  5  was  used  to  hire  and  keep  in  his  pay,  at 
the  expense  of  much  money  and  costly  gifts,  such  men 
and  women  as  did  invent  and  bring  forward  new  devices 
of  this  kind,  the  better  to  arouse  his  lecherousness.  Yea ! 
and  I  have  heard  of  other  such  that  are  like  him  among 
the  great  folk  of  our  own  day ! 

But  a  few  years  since  did  Pope  Sixtus  V.  cause  to  be 
hanged  at  Rome  a  Secretary  which  had  been  in  the  service 
of  the  Cardinal  d'Este  and  was  named  Capella,  for  many 
and  divers  offences, — but  amongst  other  that  he  had  com- 
posed a  book  of  these  same  fine  postures,  the  which  were 
figured  by  a  great  ecclesiastic  whom  I  will  not  name  for 
sake  of  his  cloth,  and  by  a  great  lady,  one  of  the  fair 
dames  of  Rome,  the  whole  shown  to  the  life  and  painted 
in  proper  form  and  colour.6 


[41] 


;,«Ya^ir*mitoW*W«W»W»W^ 


!«ffljB^^!W4l»«!»/WJI^ 


5. 


ONCE  knew  a  Prince  and  a  great  man  who  did 
even  better,  for  he  had  of  a  goldsmith  a  very 
fair  cup  made  of  silver  gilt,  by  way  of  a  mas- 
terpiece and  very  especial  curiosity,  the  most 
high-wrought,  well  engraven  and  cunningly  chiseled  piece 
of  work  could  anywhere  be  seen.  And  thereon  were  cut 
most  featly  and  subtly  with  the  graver  sundry  of  the 
postures  from  Aretino,  of  men  and  women  with  one  an- 
other; this  on  the  lower  part  of  the  cup,  and  above  and 
higher  up  sundry  also  of  the  divers  modes  of  beasts. 

And  'twas  here  I  first  learned  (for  many  is  the  time  I 
have  seen  the  said  cup  and  drunk  therein,  not  without 
laughing)  the  way  of  cohabitation  of  the  lion  and  lioness, 
the  which  is  quite  opposite  to  that  of  all  other  animals. 
This  I  had  never  known  before,  and  as  to  its  nature  I 
refer  me  to  those  who  are  ware  of  the  facts  without  my 
telling  them.  The  said  cup  was  the  glory  of  the  Prince's 
sideboard;  for  verily,  as  I  have  said,  it  was  right  fairly 
and  richly  wrought,  and  very  pleasant  to  look  at  inside 
and  out. 

When  this  same  Prince  did  give  a  feast  to  the  ladies, 
married  and  single,  of  his  Court, — and  not  seldom  was  it 
his  habit  so  to  invite  them, — his  butlers  never  failed,  such 
was  his  strait  command,  to  serve  the  company  to  drink 
in  this  cup.  Then  were  such  as  had  never  afore  seen  it 
moved  in  divers  ways,  either  while  drinking  or  afterward. 
Some  would  be  sore  astonished,  and  know  not  what  to  say 
thereat ;  some  would  be  all  ashamed  and  the  scarlet  leap- 
ing to  their  face;  some  again  would  be  whispering  low  to 
one  another:  "Nay!  what  is  all  this  carven  inside?  I  fear 

[42] 


i^iim^[/^fi^h^t/iKifr8a?iviftgtitr^ 


;aas<^i^^,i8iii^tg^t>*i^ 


me  they  be  naughty  pictures.  I  will  never  drink  from  the 
cup  again.  I  must  indeed  be  sore  athirst  before  ever  I 
ask  for  drink  therefrom  again?"  Yet  were  they  bound 
to  drink  from  this  cup,  or  burst  with  thirst;  and  to 
this  end,  would  some  shut  their  eyes  in  drinking,  but  the 
rest,  who  were  less  shamefaced,  not.  Such  as  had  heard 
tell  of  the  hang  of  it,  as  well  matrons  as  maids,  would 
be  laughing  the  while  under  the  rose;  while  such  as  had 
not,  would  be  downright  bursting  with  desire  to  do  the 
like. 

When  asked  what  they  had  to  laugh  at  and  what  they 
had  seen,  some  would  reply  they  had  seen  naught  but 
some  pictures,  and  for  anything  there  was  there  they 
would  make  no  ado  about  drinking  another  time.  Others 
would  say,  "As  for  me,  I  think  no  ill  thereof:  what  the 
eye  sees  or  a  picture  shows  forth  doth  never  soil  the  soul." 
Some  again  would  declare,  "Bah!  good  wine  is  as  good 
in  this  cup  as  in  another;"  and  say  it  was  as  good  to 
drink  out  of  as  any  other,  and  did  quench  the  thirst  just 
the  same.  Then  some  of  the  ladies  would  be  questioned, 
why  they  did  not  shut  their  eyes  in  drinking,  to  which 
they  would  make  answer  they  were  fain  to  see  what  they 
were  drinking,  for  fear  instead  of  wine  it  might  be  some 
drug  or  poison.  Others  would  be  asked  which  they  did 
take  the  more  pleasure  in,  seeing  or  drinking;  whereto 
they  would  reply,  "In  both,  of  course."  Some  would  be 
crying,  "Oh!  the  quaint  grotesques!"  others,  "Ah,  ha! 
what  be  these  merry  mummeries  we  have  here?"  Some, 
"  Oh !  the  pretty  pictures !"  and  others,  "  Here  be  fine 
figures  to  look  at!"  Some,  "  Well,  well!  Master  Gold- 
smith must  needs  have  had  good  leisure  to  while  away 
his  time  in  making  these  gewgaws !"  Others,  "  And  you, 

[43] 


W^fff'SST^Sl^iS^lSfl^SS^SS^^ 

LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

glMIMlfefflSBSMlMlMI&aiM^ 

Sire!  to  think  you  should  have  taken  this  wondrous  cup 
of  him !"  "  Now  feel  ye  not  a  something  that  doth  touch 
you,  ladies,  at  the  sight?"  They  would  enquire  presently, 
to  which  the  answer  would  come,  "  Nay !  never  a  one 
of  all  these  droll  images  hath  had  power  enough  to  stir 
me!"  Others  again  would  be  asked,  whether  they  had 
not  found  the  wine  hot,  and  whether  it  had  not  warmed 
them  finely  in  this  wintry  weather;  and  they  would  an- 
swer, "  Nay !  we  noted  no  heat ;  for  indeed  our  draught 
was  cold,  and  did  much  refresh  us."  Some  they  would 
ask,  which  of  all  these  figures  they  would  best  love  to 
have;  and  they  would  answer  they  could  in  no  wise  re- 
move them  from  where  they  were  to  transport  them 
thither. 

In  short,  an  hundred  thousand  gibes  and  quips  and 
cranks  would  pass  thereon  between  the  gentlefolk  and 
ladies  at  table,  as  I  have  myself  seen,  so  that  it  did  make 
right  merry  jesting,  and  a  very  pleasant  thing  to  see  and 
hear.  But  above  all,  to  my  thinking,  best  and  most 
heartsome  was  it  to  watch  those  innocent  maids,  or  may- 
hap them  that  figured  only  to  be  so,  and  other  ladies 
newly  come  to  Court,  striving  to  maintain  a  cold  mien, 
with  an  artificial  laugh  on  their  face  and  lips,  or  else 
holding  themselves  in  and  playing  the  hypocrite,  as  was 
the  way  with  many  ladies.  And  mind  this,  though  they 
had  been  a-dying  of  thirst,  yet  durst  not  the  butlers 
have  given  them  to  drink  in  any  other  cup  or  glass.  Yea ! 
and  likewise  were  there  some  ladies  that  sware,  to  put  a 
good  face  on  the  matter,  they  would  never,  never  come 
to  these  feasts  again;  but  for  all  that  did  they  in  no 
wise  fail  to  come  again  often  enough,  for  truly  the  Prince 
was  a  right  magnificent  and  dainty  host.  Other  ladies 

[44] 


JtMg^gSliMaSMiig^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


would  say,  on  being  invited  thither  :  "Well  !  I  will  go,  but 
under  protest  we  shall  not  be  given  to  drink  in  the  cup;" 
yet  when  once  they  were  there,  would  they  drink  therein 
as  well  as  ever.  At  the  last  would  they  aye  think  better 
of  it,  and  make  no  more  scruple  whatever  about  drinking. 
Nay  !  some  did  even  better,  and  turned  the  said  images  to 
good  use  in  fitting  time  and  place;  and  yet  more  than 
this,  some  did  act  dissolutely  of  set  purpose  to  make  trial 
of  the  same,  for  that  every  person  of  spirit  would  fain 
essay  everything.  So  here  we  have  the  fatal  effects  of 
this  cup  so  well  dight.  And  hereanent  must  each  fancy 
for  himself  all  the  other  discourse,  and  thoughts  and 
looks  and  words,  that  these  ladies  did  indulge  in  and  give 
vent  to,  one  with  another,  whether  in  privity  or  in  open 
company. 

I  ween  this  cup  was  of  a  very  different  sort  from  the 
one  whereof  M.  Ronsard  l  doth  speak  in  one  of  his  earliest 
Odes,  dedicated  to  the  late  King  Henri,  which  doth  thus 
begin  : 

Comme  un  qui  prend  une  couppe, 
Seul  honneur  de  son  tresor. 
Et  de  rang  verse  a  la  trouppe 
Du  vin  qui  rit  dedans  1'or.      •*'-' 

(As  one  who  takes  a  cup,  sole  honour  of  all  his  treasure, 
and  duly  pours  therein  to  the  company  good  wine  that 
laughs  within  the  gold.) 

However  in  this  cup  I  tell  of  the  wine  laughed  not  at 
any,  but  rather  the  folk  at  the  wine.  For  verily  some 
dames  did  drink  laughing,  and  others  trembling  with  de- 
light; and  yet  others  would  be  nigh  compissoyent,  —  I 
mean  not  of  course  just  ordinary  piddling,  but  something 

[45] 


9rftf!:VBRiBfflM*i^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


more.  In  a  word  the  said  cup  did  bring  dire  effects  with 
it,  so  touching  true  were  these  images,  figures  and  repre- 
sentations. 

In  likewise  do  I  remember  me  how  once,  in  a  gallery 
of  the  Comte  de  Chasteau- Villain,  known  as  the  Seigneur 
Adjacet,  a  company  of  ladies  with  their  lovers  having 
come  to  visit  the  said  fair  mansion,  they  did  fall  to 
contemplating  sundry  rare  and  beautiful  pictures  in  the 
Gallery  thereof.  Among  these  they  beheld  a  very  beau- 
tiful picture,  wherein  were  pourtrayed  a  number  of  fair 
ladies  naked  and  at  the  bath,  which  did  touch,  and  feel, 
and  handle,  and  stroke,  one  the  other,  and  intertwine 
and  fondle  with  each  other,  and  so  enticingly  and  prettily 
and  featly  did  show  all  their  hidden  beauties  that  the 
coldest  recluse  or  hermit  had  been  warmed  and  stirred 
thereat.  Wherefore  did  a  certain  great  lady,  as  I  have 
heard  it  told,  and  indeed  I  do  know  her  well,  losing  all 
restraint  of  herself  before  this  picture,  say  to  her  lover, 
turning  toward  him  maddened  as  it  were  at  the  madness 
of  love  she  beheld  painted;  "Too  long  have  we  tarried 
here.  Let  us  now  straightway  take  coach  and  so  to  my 
lodging;  for  that  no  more  can  I  hold  in  the  ardour  that 
is  in  me.  Needs  must  away  and  quench  it;  too  sore  do  I 
burn."  And  so  she  did  haste  away  to  enjoy  her  faithful 
lover. 

Suchlike  pictures  and  portrayals  do  bring  more  hurt 
to  a  weak  soul  than  men  think  for.  Another  of  the  same 
sort  there,  was  a  Venus  naked,  lying  on  a  couch  and 
eyed  by  her  son  Cupid ;  another,  Mars  a-bed  with  Venus, 
another,  a  Leda  with  her  swan.  Many  other  there  be, 
both  there  and  elsewhere,  that  are  somedel  more  modestly 
painted  and  better  veiled  than  the  figures  of  Aretino; 

[46] 


irffliy^yfflffwwwgBffflg^^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

m*ayaiw,ys^'MB5«ffliy^ 

but  all  do  come  pretty  much  to  one  and  the  same,  and 
are  of  the  like  nature  with  our  cup  whereof  I  have  been 
speaking.  This  last  had,  as  it  were,  a  sort  of  likeness  in 
unlikeness  to  the  cup  which  Renault  de  Montauban  found 
in  the  Castle  Ariosto  doth  tell  of,  the  which  did  openly 
discover  unhappy  husbands  that  were  cuckolds,  whereas 
this  one  was  more  likely  to  make  them  so.  But  while  the 
one  did  cause  somewhat  too  great  scandal  to  cuckolds 
and  their  faithless  wives,  the  other  had  no  such  effect. 
Nowadays  is  no  need  of  these  books  or  these  pictures, 
for  that  husbands  teach  their  wives  themselves  enough 
and  to  spare  without  them.  And  now  for  the  results  of 
suchlike  husbands'  schooling! 

I  knew  an  excellent  Venetian  printer  at  Paris  named 
Messer  Bernardo,  a  kinsman  of  the  great  Aldus  Manu- 
tius  of  Venice  2,  which  did  keep  his  shop  in  the  Rue  Saint- 
Jacques.  The  same  did  once  tell  me,  and  swear  to  it, 
that  in  less  than  a  year  he  had  sold  more  than  fifty  of 
the  two  volumes  of  Aretino  3  to  very  many  folks,  married 
and  unmarried,  as  well  as  to  women  of  whom  he  did  name 
three  very  great  ladies  of  society;  but  I  will  not  repeat 
the  names.  To  these  he  did  deliver  the  book  into  their 
own  hands,  and  right  well  bound,  under  oath  given  he 
would  breathe  never  a  word  of  it — though  he  did  round 
it  to  me  natheless.  And  he  did  tell  me  further  how  that 
another  lady  having  asked  him  some  time  after,  if  he  had 
not  another  like  the  one  she  had  seen  in  the  hands  of 
one  of  the  three,  he  had  answered  her:  Signora,  si,  e 
peggio  ("Yes,  Madam, — and  worse")  ;  and  she  instantly, 
money  on  table,  had  bought  them  all  at  their  weight  in 
gold.  Verily  a  frantic  inquisitiveness  for  to  send  her 

[47] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

aiysyfflymaMlMifeaMiMB 

husband  a  voyage  to  the  haven  of  Cornette  (the  Horns), 
near  by  Civita-Vecchia. 

All  such  devices  and  postures  are  abominable  in  God's 
sight,  as  indeed  St.  Jerome  saith:  "Whosoever  doth  show 
himself  more  unrestrainedly  enamoured  of  his  wife  than 
a  husband  should,  is  an  adulteror  and  committeth  sin. 
And  forasmuch  as  sundry  Doctors  of  the  Church  have 
spoken  thereof,  I  will  sum  up  the  matter  shortly  in  Latin 
words,  seeing  themselves  have  not  thought  good  to  say 
it  in  plain  language:  Excessus,  say  they,  conjugum  fit, 
quando  uxor  cognoscitur  ante  retro  stando,  sedendo,  in 
latere,  et  mulier  super  virum  (Excess  between  married 
people  is  committed  when  the  wife  is  known  before  by  the 
husband  standing  behind,  or  sitting,  or  sideways,  or  the 
woman  on  top  of  the  man).  This  last  posture  is  referred 
to  in  a  little  couplet  I  once  read,  and  which  goes  as 
follows : 

In  prato  viridi  monialem  ludere  vidi 
Cum  monacho  leviter,  ille  sub,  ilia  super. 

Other  learned  Doctors  hold  that  any  mode  whatsoever 
is  good,  provided  only  that  semen  ejaculetur  in  matricem 
mulieris,  et  quomodocunque  uxor  cognoscatur,  si  vir  ejac- 
tdetur  semen  in  matricem,  non  est  peccatum  mortale. 

These  arguments  are  to  be  found  in  the  Summa  Bene- 
dicti.  This  Benedict  *  is  a  Doctor  of  the  Cordeliers,  who 
has  writ  most  excellently  of  all  the  sins,  and  shown  how 
that  he  hath  both  seen  much  and  read  widely.  Anyone 
who  will  read  this  passage,  will  find  therein  a  number 
of  excesses  which  husbands  do  commit  toward  their  wives. 
Thus  he  saith  that  quando  mulier  est  ita  pinguis  ut  non 
possit  aliter  coire,  non  est  mortale  peccatum,  modo  vir 

[48] 


BTWgiygijffiiff'KigwaffWffl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


imwp^i^i^i^i^i^i^i^ix^i^i^ 


ejaculetur  semen  in  vas  naturale.  Whereas  others  again 
say  it  were  better  husbands  should  abstain  from  their  wives 
altogether  when  they  are  with  child,  as  do  the  animals, 
than  for  them  to  befoul  marriage  with  such  abominations. 
I  knew  once  a  famous  courtesan  of  Rome,  called  "The 
Greek,"  whom  a  great  Lord  of  France  had  kept  in  that 
city.  After  some  space,  she  had  a  strong  desire  to  visit 
France,  using  to  this  end  the  Signer  Bonvisi,  a  Banker 
of  Lyons,  a  native  of  Lucca  and  a  very  rich  man,  who 
was  her  lover.  Wherein  having  succeeded,  she  did  make 
many  enquiries  concerning  the  said  gentleman  and  his 
wife,  and  amongst  other  matters,  whether  mayhap  she  did 
not  cuckold  him,  "seeing  that,"  she  would  say,  "I  have 
so  well  trained  her  husband,  and  have  taught  him  such 
excellent  lessons,  that  he  having  once  shown  them  to  his 
wife  and  practised  the  same  with  her,  it  is  not  possible 
but  that  she  have  desired  to  show  the  same  to  others  also. 
For  insooth  our  trade  is  such  an  one,  when  it  is  well 
learned,  that  a  woman  doth  find  an  hundred  times  more 
pleasure  in  showing  and  practising  it  with  several  than 
with  one  only."  Furthermore  did  she  say  that  the  said 
lady  ought  of  rights  to  make  her  a  handsome  present 
and  one  worthy  of  her  pains  and  good  teaching,  foras- 
much as  when  her  husband  did  first  come  to  her  school, 
he  knew  naught  at  all,  but  was  in  these  matters  the  most 
silly,  inexperienced  prentice  hand  ever  she  had  seen.  But 
now,  so  well  had  she  trained  him  and  fashioned  him  that 
his  wife  must  needs  find  him  an  hundred  times  better. 
For  in  fact  the  lady,  desiring  to  see  her,  went  to  visit 
her  in  disguise;  this  the  courtesan  suspected,  and  held 
all  the  discourse  to  her  I  have  detailed, — and  worse  still 
and  more  dissolute,  for  she  was  an  exceeding  dissolute 

[49] 


BfWSfflTfflff^lFSgWJT^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ai^at^^i^i^ia^i^^ 

woman.  And  this  is  how  husbands  do  forge  the  knives 
to  cut  their  own  throats  withal ;  or  rather  is  it  a  question 
not  of  throats  at  all,  but  of  horns!  Acting  after  this 
sort  do  they  pollute  holy  matrimony,  for  the  which  God 
doth  presently  punish  them;  then  must  they  have  their 
revenge  on  their  wives,  wherein  are  they  an  hundred  times 
more  deserving  of  punishment  than  before.  So  am  I  not  a 
whit  surprised  that  the  same  venerable  Doctor  did  de- 
clare marriage  to  be  in  very  truth  but  a  kind  of  adultery, 
as  it  were ;  thereby  intending,  when  men  did  abuse  it  after 
the  fashion  I  have  been  discoursing  of. 

Thus  hath  marriage  been  forbidden  our  priests ;  for 
that  it  is  no  wise  meet  that,  just  come  from  their  wives' 
bed  and  after  polluting  themselves  exceedingly  with  them, 
they  should  then  approach  an  holy  altar.  For,  by  my 
faith,  so  far  as  I  have  heard  tell,  some  folk  do  wanton 
more  with  their  wives  than  do  the  very  reprobates  with 
the  harlots  in  brothels ;  for  these  last,  fearing  to  catch 
some  ill,  do  not  go  to  extremes  or  warm  to  the  work 
with  them  as  do  husbands  with  their  wives.  For  these 
be  clean  and  can  give  no  hurt, — that  is  to  say  the  most 
part  of  them,  though  truly  not  quite  all ;  for  myself  have 
known  some  to  give  it  to  their  husbands,  as  also  their 
husbands  to  them. 

Husbands,  so  abusing  their  wives,  are  much  deserving 
of  punishment,  as  I  have  heard  great  and  learned  Doctors 
say ;  for  that  they  do  not  behave  themselves  modestly  with 
their  wives  in  their  bed,  as  of  right  they  should,  but 
wanton  with  them  as  with  concubines,  whereas  marriage 
was  instituted  for  necessity  of  procreation,  and  in  no  wise 
for  dissolute  and  lecherous  pleasure.  And  this  did  the 
Emperor  Sejanus  Commodus,  otherwise  called  Anchus 

[50] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Verus  5,  well  declare  unto  us,  when  he  said  to  his  wife 
Calvilla,  who  did  make  complaint  to  him,  for  that  he  was 
used  to  bestow  on  harlots  and  courtesans  and  other  the 
like  what  did  of  rights  belong  to  her  in  her  bed,  and  rob 
her  of  her  little  enjoyments  and  gratifications.  "Bear 
with  me,  wife,"  he  said  to  her,  "that  with  other  women 
I  satiate  my  foul  passions,  seeing  that  the  name  of  wife 
and  consort  is  one  deserving  of  dignity  and  honour,  and 
not  one  for  mere  pleasure  and  lecherousness."  I  have 
never  ,yet  read  or  learned  what  reply  his  good  wife  the 
Empress  made  him  thereto;  but  little  doubt  can  be  she 
was  ill  content  with  his  golden  saying,  and  did  answer 
him  from  out  her  heart,  and  in  the  words  of  the  most 
part,  nay !  of  all,  married  women :  "A  fig  for  your  dignity 
and  honour;  pleasure  for  me!  We  thrive  better  on  this 
last  than  on  all  the  other." 

Nor  yet  must  we  suppose  for  an  instant  that  the  more 
part  of  married  men  of  to-day  or  of  any  other  day, 
which  have  fair  wives,  do  speak  after  this  wise.  For  in- 
deed they  do  not  marry  and  enter  into  wedlock,  nor  take 
their  wives,  but  only  in  order  to  pass  their  time  pleasure- 
ably  and  indulge  their  passion  in  all  fashions  and  teach 
the  same  merry  precepts,  as  well  for  the  wanton  move- 
ments of  their  body  as  for  the  dissolute  and  lascivious 
words  of  their  mouth,  to  the  end  their  love  may  be  the 
better  awaked  and  stirred  up  thereby.  Then,  after  hav- 
ing thus  well  instructed  and  debauched  their  minds,  if 
they  do  go  astray  elsewhere,  lo!  they  are  for  sorely  pun- 
ishing them,  beating  and  murdering  and  putting  of  them 
to  death. 

Truly  scant  reasonableness  is  there  in  this,  just  as  if 
a  man  should  have  debauched  a  poor  girl,  taking  her 

[51] 


iffww^Bffflg^fflffflggiffwgsmgww^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ffliyiii^yaii^i^^^ 

straight  from  her  mother's  arms,  and  have  robbed  her  of 
her  honour  and  maidenhood,  and  should  then,  after  hav- 
ing his  will  of  her,  beat  her  and  constrain  her  to  live 
quite  otherwise,  in  entire  chastity, — verily  an  excellent 
and  opportune  thing  to  ask!  Who  is  there  would  not 
condemn  such  an  one,  as  a  man  unreasonable  and  de- 
serving to  be  made  suffer?  The  same  might  justly  be 
said  of  many  husbands,  the  which,  when  all  is  said  and 
done,  do  more  debauch  their  wives  and  teach  them  more 
precepts  to  lead  them  into  lechery  than  ever  their  gal- 
lants use,  for  they  do  enjoy  more  time  and  leisure  there- 
for than  lovers  can  have.  But  presently,  when  they 
cease  their  instructions,  the  wives  most  naturally  do  seek 
a  change  of  hand  and  master,  being  herein  like  a  good 
rider,  who  findeth  more  pleasure  an  hundredfold  in 
mounting  an  horse  than  one  that  is  all  ignorant  of  the 
art.  "And  alack!"  so  used  the  courtesan  we  but  now 
spake  of  to  say,  "there  is  no  trade  in  all  the  world  that  is 
more  cunning,  nor  that  doth  more  call  for  constant  prac- 
tice, than  that  of  Venus."  Wherefore  these  husbands 
should  be  warned  not  to  give  suchlike  instructions  to  their 
wives,  for  that  they  be  far  and  away  too  dangerous  and 
harmful  to  the  same.  Or,  if  they  needs  must,  and  after- 
ward find  their  wives  playing  them  a  knavish  trick,  let 
them  not  punish  them,  forasmuch  as  it  is  themselves  have 
opened  the  door  thereto. 

Here  am  I  constrained  to  make  a  digression  to  tell  of  a 
certain  married  woman,  fair  and  honourable  and  of  good 
station,  whom  I  know,  the  which  did  give  herself  to  an 
honourable  gentleman, — and  that  more  for  the  jealousy 
she  bare  toward  an  honourable  lady  whom  this  same 
gentleman  did  love  and  keep  as  his  paramour  than  for 

[52] 


afrr^r^y^ir^t^yrtt78xifr8flftixirrrtr^r^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


love.  Wherefore,  even  as  he  was  enjoying  her  favour,  the 
lady  said  to  him :  "Now  at  last,  to  my  great  contentment, 
do  I  triumph  over  you  and  over  the  love  you  bear  to  such 
an  one."  The  gentleman  made  answer  to  her :  "A  person 
that  is  beat  down,  brought  under  and  trampled  on,  can 
scarce  be  said  to  triumph  greatly."  The  lady  taketh  um- 
brage at  this  reply,  as  touching  her  honour,  and  straight- 
way makes  answer,  "You  are  very  right,"  and  instantly 
puts  herself  of  a  sudden  to  unseat  the  man,  and  slip  away 
from  him.  Never  of  yore  was  Roman  knight  or  warrior 
so  quick  and  dexterous  to  mount  and  remount  his  horses 
at  the  gallop  as  was  the  lady  this  bout  with  her  gallant. 
Then  doth  she  handle  him  in  this  mode,  saying  the  while, 
"Well  then,  at  present  I  can  declare  truly  and  in  good 
conscience  I  triumph  over  you,  forasmuch  as  I  hold  you 
subdued  under  me."  Verily  a  dame  of  a  gay  and  wanton 
ambition,  and  very  strange  the  way  in  which  she  did  satisfy 
the  same! 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady 
of  the  great  world,  much  given  over  to  love,  who  yet  was 
so  arrogant  and  proud,  and  so  high  of  heart,  that  when 
it  came  to  it,  never  would  she  suffer  her  man  to  put 
her  under  him  and  humble  her.  For  by  so  doing  she 
deemed  she  wrought  a  great  wrong  to  the  nobility  of 
her  spirit,  and  held  it  a  great  piece  of  cowardice  to  be 
thus  humbled  and  subdued,  as  in  a  triumphant  conquest 
and  enslavement ;  but  was  fain  ever  to  guard  the  upper 
hand  and  pre-eminence.  And  one  thing  that  did  greatly 
help  her  herein  was  that  she  would  never  have  dealings 
with  one  greater  in  rank  than  herself,  for  fear  that, 
using  his  authority  and  puissance,  he  might  succeed 
in  giving  the  law  to  her,  and  so  turn,  twist  about  and 

[53] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


trample  her,  just  as  he  pleased.  Rather  for  this  work 
would  she  choose  her  equals  and  inferiors,  to  the  which 
she  could  dictate  their  place  and  station,  their  order  and 
procedure  in  the  amorous  combat,  neither  more  nor  less 
than  doth  a  sergeant  major  to  his  men-at-arms  on  the 
day  of  battle.  These  orders  would  she  in  no  wise  have 
them  overpass,  under  pain  of  losing  what  they  most  de- 
sire and  value,  in  some  cases  her  love,  in  others  their  own 
life.  In  such  wise  that  never,  standing  or  sitting  or  lying, 
could  they  prevail  to  return  back  and  put  upon  her  the 
smallest  humiliation,  submission  or  subservience,  which 
she  had  done  them.  Hereanent  I  refer  me  to  the  words 
and  judgement  of  such,  men  and  women,  as  have  dealt 
with  such  loves,  stations  and  modes. 

Anyway  the  lady  we  speak  of  could  so  order  it,  that 
no  hurt  should  be  done  to  the  dignity  she  did  affect,  and 
no  offence  to  her  proud  heart;  for  by  what  I  have  heard 
from  sundry  that  have  been  familiar  with  her,  she  had 
powers  enough  to  make  such  ordinances  and  regulations. 

In  good  sooth  a  formidable  and  diverting  woman's 
caprice,  and  a  right  curious  scruple  of  a  proud  spirit. 
Yet  was  she  in  the  right  after  all;  for  in  truth  is  it  a 
humiliating  and  painful  thing  to  be  so  brought  under  and 
bent  to  another's  will,  and  trod  down,  when  one  thinks  of 
it  quickly  and  alone,  and  saith  to  oneself,  "Such  an  one 
hath  put  me  under  him  and  trod  me  underfoot," — for 
underfoot  it  is,  if  not  literally,  at  any  rate  in  a  manner  of 
speaking,  and  doth  amount  to  the  same  thing. 

The  same  lady  moreover  would  never  suffer  her  infe- 
riors to  kiss  her  on  the  mouth,  "seeing  it  is  so,"  she  would 
say,  "that  the  touch  and  contact  of  mouth  to  mouth  is 
the  most  delicate  and  precious  of  all  contacts,  whether 

[54] 


y*Ait/w&»ivivi^ir«\itoY.r/wtow^r^^ 


yP^l^t^P^!^l^!^WJ!X»y4^!X^^^ 


of  the  hand  or  other  members."  For  this  reason  would 
she  not  be  so  approached,  nor  feel  on  her  own  a  foul,  un- 
clean mouth,  and  one  not  meet  for  hers. 

Now  hereanent  is  yet  another  question  I  have  known 
some  debate:  what  advantage  and  overplus  of  glory  hath 
the  one,  whether  man  or  woman,  over  his  companion, 
whenas  they  are  at  these  amorous  skirmishes  and  con- 
quests ? 

The  man  on  his  side  doth  set  forth  the  reasons  given 
above,  to  wit,  that  the  victory  is  much  greater  when  as 
one  holdeth  his  sweet  enemy  laid  low  beneath  him,  and  doth 
subjugate,  put  underfoot  and  tame  her  at  his  ease  and 
how  he  best  pleaseth.  For  there  is  no  Princess  or  great 
lady  so  high,  but  doth,  when  she  is  in  that  case,  even 
though  it  were  with  an  inferior  or  subordinate,  suffer  the 
law  and  domination  which  Venus  hath  ordained  in  her 
statutes ;  and  for  this  cause  glory  and  honour  do  redound 
therefrom  to  the  man  in  very  high  measure. 

The  woman  on  the  other  hand  saith :  "Yes !  I  do  confess 
you  may  well  feel  triumphant  when  you  do  hold  me  under 
you  and  put  me  underfoot.  But  if  it  be- only  a  question 
of  keeping  the  upper  station,  I  likewise  do  sometimes  take 
that  in  mere  sportiveness  and  of  a  pretty  caprice  that 
assaileth  me,  and  not  of  any  constraint.  Further,  when 
this  upperhand  position  doth  not  like  me,  I  do  make  you 
work  for  me  like  a  very  serf  or  galley-slave,  or  to  put  it 
better,  make  you  pull  at  the  collar  like  a  veritable  wag- 
gon-horse, and  there  you  are  toiling,  striving,  sweating, 
panting,  straining  to  perform  the  task  and  labour  I 
choose  to  exact  from  you.  Meanwhile,  for  me,  lo!  I  am 
at  my  ease,  and  watch  your  efforts.  Sometimes  do  I  make 
merry  at  your  expense,  and  take  my  pleasure  in  seeing 

[55] 


j^i^^iffWWWS^satiJTWrTO^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


you  in  such  sore  labour,  sometimes  too  I  compassionate 
you,  just  as  pleaseth  me  and  according  as  I  am  inclined 
to  merriment  or  pity.  Then  after  having  well  fulfilled 
my  pleasure  and  caprice  herein,  I  do  leave  my  gallant 
there,  tired,  worn  out,  weakened  and  enervate,  so  he  can 
do  no  more,  and  hath  need  of  naught  so  much  as  of  a 
good  sleep  and  a  good  meal,  a  strong  broth,  a  restorative, 
or  some  good  soup  to  hearten  him  up.  For  me,  for  all 
such  labours  and  efforts,  I  feel  no  whit  the  worse,  but  only 
that  I  have  been  right  well  served  at  your  expense,  sir 
gallant,  and  do  experience  no  hurt;  but  only  wish  for 
some  other  to  give  me  as  much  again,  and  to  make  him 
as  much  exhausted  as  you.  And  after  this  wise,  never 
surrendering,  but  making  my  sweet  foe  surrender  to  me, 
'tis  I  bear  away  the  true  victory  and  true  glory,  seeing 
that  in  a  duello  he  that  doth  give  in  is  dishonoured,  and 
not  he  that  doth  fight  on  to  the  last  dire  extremity." 

So  have  I  heard  this  tale  following  told  of  a  fair  and 
honourable  lady.  One  time,  her  husband  having  wakened 
her  from  a  sound  sleep  and  good  rest  she  was  enjoying, 
for  to  do  the  thing,  when  he  was  done,  she  said  to  him, 
"Well!  'tis  you  did  it,  not  I."  And  she  did  clip  him  ex- 
ceeding tight  with  arms,  hands,  feet  and  legs  crossed 
over  each  other,  saying,  "I  will  teach  you  to  wake  me  up 
another  time,"  and  so  with  might  and  main  and  right 
good  will,  pulling,  pushing  and  shaking  her  husband,  and 
who  could  in  no  wise  get  loose,  but  who  lay  there  sweat- 
ing and  stewing  and  aweary,  and  was  fain  to  cry  her 
mercy,  she  did  make  him  so  exhausted,  and  so  foredone 
and  feeble,  that  he  grew  altogether  out  of  breath  and  did 
swear  her  a  sound  oath  how  another  time  he  would  have 
her  only  at  his  own  time,  humour  and  desire.  The  tale  is 

[56] 


STffl?7wwwffigffi?7ffi?fffi^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

ffliyaMBgaMiMiMi&fflfeai^^ 

one  better  to  imagine  and  picture  to  oneself  than  to  de- 
scribe in  words. 

Such  then  are  the  woman's  arguments,  with  sundry 
other  she  might  very  well  have  adduced  to  boot.  And  note 
how  the  humblest  strumpet  can  do  as  much  to  a  great 
King  or  Prince,  if  he  have  gone  with  her, — and  this  is  a 
great  scorn,  seeing  that  the  blood  royal  is  held  to  be  the 
most  precious  can  ever  be.  At  any  rate  is  it  right  care- 
fully guarded  and  very  expensively  and  preciously  accom- 
modated far  more  than  any  other  man's ! 

This  then  is  what  the  women  do  or  say.  Yet  truly  is  it 
great  pity  a  blood  so  precious  should  be  polluted  and  con- 
taminated so  foully  and  unworthily.  And  indeed  it  was 
forbid  by  the  law  of  Moses  to  waste  the  same  in  any  wise 
on  the  ground ;  but  it  is  much  worse  done  to  intermingle 
it  in  a  most  foul  and  unworthy  fashion.  Still  'twere  too 
much  to  have  them  do  as  did  a  certain  great  Lord,  of  whom 
I  have  heard  tell,  who  having  in  his  dreams  at  night  pol- 
luted himself  among  his  sheets,  had  these  buried,  so  scru- 
pulous-minded was  he,  saying  it  was  a  babe  issuing  there- 
from that  was  dead,  and  how  that  it  was  pity  and  a  very 
great  loss  that  this  blood  had  not  been  put  into  his  wife's 
womb,  for  then  it  might  well  be  the  child  would  have 
lived. 

Herein  might  he  very  like  have  been  deceived,  seeing 
that  of  a  thousand  cohabitations  the  husband  hath  with 
the  wife  in  the  year,  'tis  very  possible,  as  I  have  above 
said,  she  will  not  become  pregnant  thereby,  not  once  in 
all  her  life,  in  fact  never  in  the  case  of  some  women  which 
be  eunuch  and  barren,  and  can  never  conceive.  Whence 
hath  come  the  error  of  certain  misbelievers,  which  say 
that  marriage  was  not  ordained  so  much  for  the  procrea- 

[57] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


tion  of  children  as  for  pleasure.  Now  this  is  ill  thought 
and  ill  said,  for  albeit  a  woman  doth  not  grow  pregnant 
every  time  a  man  have  her,  'tis  so  for  some  purpose  of 
God  to  us  mysterious,  and  that  he  wills  to  punish  in  this 
wise  both  man  and  wife,  seeing  how  the  greatest  blessing 
God  can  give  us  in  marriage  is  a  good  offspring,  and  that 
not  in  mere  concubinage.  And  many  women  there  be  that 
take  a  great  delight  in  having  it,  but  others  not.  These 
latter  will  in  no  wise  suffer  aught  to  enter  into  them,  as 
well  to  avoid  foisting  on  their  husbands  children  that  are 
not  theirs,  as  to  avoid  the  semblance  of  doing  them  wrong 
and  making  them  cuckolds. 

For  by  this  name  of  cuckoos  (or  cuckolds),  properly 
appertaining  to  those  birds  of  Springtide  that  are  so 
called  because  they  do  lay  their  eggs  in  other  birds'  nests, 
are  men  also  known  by  antinomy,6  when  others  come  to 
lay  eggs  in  their  nest,  that  is  in  their  wives'  article, — 
which  is  the  same  thing  as  saying,  cast  their  seed  into 
them  and  make  them  children. 

And  this  is  how  many  wives  think  they  are  doing  no 
wrong  to  their  husbands  in  taking  their  fill  of  pleasure, 
provided  only  they  do  not  become  pregnant.  Such  their 
fine  scruples  of  conscience!  So  a  great  lady  of  whom  I 
have  heard  speak,  was  used  to  say  to  her  gallant :  "Take 
your  pastime  as  much  as  ever  you  will,  and  give  me  pleas- 
ure; but  on  your  life,  take  heed  to  let  naught  bedew  me, 
else  is  it  a  question  of  life  and  death  for  you." 

A  like  story  have  I  heard  told  by  the  Chevalier  de  San- 
zay  of  Brittany,  a  very  honourable  and  gallant  gentle- 
man, who,  had  not  death  overtaken  him  at  an  early  age, 
would  have  been  a  great  seaman,  having  made  a  very  good 
beginning  of  his  career.  And  indeed  he  did  bear  the 

[58] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


marks  and  signs  thereof,  for  he  had  had  an  arm  carried 
off  by  a  cannon  shot  at  a  sea-fight  he  did  engage  in.  As 
his  ill  luck  would  have  it,  he  was  taken  prisoner  of  the 
Corsairs  and  carried  off  to  Algiers.  His  master  who  had 
him  as  his  slave,  was  the  head  Priest  of  the  Mosque 
in  that  part,  and  had  a  very  beauteous  wife.  This  lady 
did  fall  so  deep  in  love  with  the  said  Sanzay  that  she 
bade  him  come  to  have  amorous  dalliance  and  delight  with 
her,  saying  how  she  would  treat  him  very  well,  better  than 
any  of  her  other  slaves.  But  above  all  else  did  she 
charge  him  very  straitly,  and  on  his  life,  or  on  pain  of 
most  rigorous  imprisonment,  not  to  emit  in  her  body  a 
single  drop  of  his  seed,  forasmuch  as,  so  she  declared,  she 
must  in  no  wise  be  polluted  and  contaminated  with  Chris- 
tian blood,  whereby  she  thought  she  would  sorely  offend 
against  the  law  of  her  people  and  their  great  Prophet 
Mahomet.  And  further  she  bade  him,  that  albeit  she 
should  even  order  him  an  hundred  times  over  to  do  the 
whole  thing  outright,  he  should  do  nothing  of  the  sort, 
for  that  it  would  be  but  the  exceeding  pleasure  wherewith 
she  was  enraptured  that  made  her  say  so  to  him,  and  in 
no  wise  the  will  of  her  heart  and  soul. 

The  aforesaid  Sanzay,  in  order  to  get  good  treatment 
and  greater  liberty,  Christian  as  he  was,  did  shut  his  eyes 
this  once  to  his  law.  For  a  poor  slave,  hardly  entreated 
and  cruelly  chained,  may  well  forget  his  principles  now 
and  again.  So  he  did  obey  the  lady,  and  was  so  prudent 
and  so  submissive  to  her  order,  as  that  he  did  minister 
right  well  to  her  pleasure.  Wherefore  the  lady  did 
love  him  the  better,  because  he  was  so  submissive  to  her 
strait  and  difficult  command.  Even  when  she  would  cry 
to  him :  "Let  go,  I  say ;  I  give  you  full  permission !"  yet 

[59] 


gWWgBTWffigWWfflgWWWfflgKI?^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


would  he  never  once  do  so,  for  he  was  sore  afraid  of  being 
beaten  as  the  Turks  use  (bastinadoed),  as  he  did  often 
see  his  comrades  beaten  before  his  eyes. 

Verily  a  strange  and  sore  caprice;  and  herein  it  would 
seem  she  did  well  prevail,  both  for  her  own  soul's  sake 
which  was  Turk  and  for  the  other  who  was  Christian. 
But  he  swore  to  me  how  that  never  in  all  his  life  had  he 
been  in  so  sore  a  strait ! 

He  did  tell  me  yet  another  tale,  the  most  heartsome  and 
amusing  possible,  of  a  trick  she  once  put  upon  him.  But 
forasmuch  as  it  is  not  pleasant,  I  will  repeat  it  not,  for 
dread  of  doing  offence  to  modest  ears. 

Later  was  the  same  Sanzay  ransomed  by  his  friends, 
the  which  are  folk  of  honour  and  good  estate  in  Brittany, 
and  related  to  many  great  persons,  as  to  the  Connetable 
de  Sanzay,  who  was  greatly  attached  to  his  elder  brother, 
and  did  help  him  much  toward  his  deliverance.  Having 
won  this,  the  Chevalier  did  come  to  Court,  and  held  much 
discourse  to  M.  d'Estrozze  and  to  me  of  his  adventures 
and  of  divers  matters,  and  amongst  other  such  he  told  us 
these  stories. 

6. 

HAT  are  we  to  say  now  of  some  husbands 
which  be  not  content  only  to  procure  them- 
selves entertainment  and  wanton  pleasure 
with  their  wives,  but  do  give  the  desire  there- 
for to  others  also,  their  companions,  friends  and  the 
like?  For  so  have  I  known  several  which  do  praise 
their  wives  to  these,  detail  to  them  their  beauties,  picture 
to  them  their  members  and  various  bodily  parts,  recount 
the  pleasure  that  they  have  with  them,  and  the  caresses 

[60] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

Jg-gSySMiMIMiMIMlMa^^ 

their  wives  do  use  towards  them,  make  them  kiss,  touch 
and  try  them,  and  even  behold  them  naked. 

What  do  such  deserve?  Why!  that  they  be  cuckolded 
right  off,  as  did  Gyges,  by  the  means  of  his  ring,  to  Can- 
daules,1  King  of  the  Lydians.  For  the  latter,  fool  that 
he  was,  having  bepraised  to  Gyges  the  rare  beauty  of  his 
wife,  and  at  the  last  having  shown  her  to  him  stark  naked, 
he  fell  so  madly  in  love  with  her  that  he  did  what  seemed 
him  good  and  brought  Candaules  to  his  death  and  made 
himself  master  of  his  Kingdom.  'Tis  said  the  wife  was 
in  such  despite  and  despair  at  having  been  so  shown  by 
her  husband  to  another  man,  that  she  did  herself  constrain 
Gyges  to  play  this  traitorous  part,  saying  thus  to  him: 
"Either  must  he  that  hath  constrained  and  counselled  you 
to  such  a  thing  die  by  your  hand,  or  else  you,  who  have 
looked  on  me  in  my  nakedness,  must  die  by  the  hand  of 
another."  Of  a  surety  was  the  said  King  very  ill  advised 
so  to  rouse  desire  for  a  fresh  dainty,  so  good  and  sweet, 
which  it  rather  behoved  him  to  hold  very  specially  dear 
and  precious. 

Louis,  Duke  or  Orleans,2  killed  at  the  Barbette  Gate  of 
Paris,  did  the  exact  opposite.  An  arrant  debaucher  was 
he  of  the  ladies  of  the  Court,  and  that  even  of  the  greatest 
among  them  all.  For,  having  once  a  very  fair  and  noble 
lady  to  bed  with  him,  so  soon  as  her  husband  came  into 
his  bedchamber  to  wish  him  good-morrow,  he  did  promptly 
cover  up  the  lady's  head,  the  other's  wife's  that  is,  with 
the  sheet,  but  did  uncover  all  the  rest  of  her  body,  letting 
him  see  her  all  naked  and  touch  her  at  his  pleasure,  only 
with  express  prohibition  on  his  life  not  to  take  away  the 
linen  from  off  the  face,  nor  to  uncover  it  in  any  wise,  —  a 
charge  he  durst  not  contravene.  Then  did  the  Duke  ask 

[61] 


tnaNim^mmf^^^ssFWfWFWff^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

him  several  times  over  what  he  thought  of  this  fair,  naked 
body,  whereat  the  other  was  all  astonished  and  exceeding 
content.  At  the  last  he  did  get  his  leave  to  quit  the 
chamber,  and  this  he  did  without  having  ever  had  the 
chance  to  recognize  the  woman  for  his  own  wife. 

If  only  he  had  carefully  looked  over  her  body  and  ex- 
amined the  same,  as  several  that  I  have  known,  he  would 
mayhap  have  recognized  her  by  sundry  blemishes.  Thus 
is  it  a  good  thing  for  men  to  go  over  sometimes  and  ob- 
serve their  wives'  bodies. 

She,  after  her  husband  was  well  gone,  was  questioned 
of  M.  d'Orleans,  if  she  had  felt  any  alarm  or  fear.  I 
leave  you  to  imagine  what  she  said  thereto,  and  all  the 
trouble  and  anguish  she  was  in  by  the  space  of  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  seeing  all  that  lacked  for  her  undoing  was 
some  little  indiscretion,  or  the  smallest  disobedience  her 
husband  might  have  committed  in  lifting  the  sheet.  'Twas 
doubtless  M.  d'Orleans'  orders,  but  still  he  would  surely, 
on  his  making  discovery,  have  straightway  slain  him  to 
stay  him  of  the  vengeance  he  would  have  wrought  on  his 
wife. 

And  the  best  of  it  was  that,  being  the  next  night  to  bed 
with  his  wife,  he  did  tell  her  how  M.  d'Orleans  had  let  him 
see  the  fairest  naked  woman  he  had  ever  beheld,  but  as  to 
her  face,  that  he  could  give  no  news  thereof,  seeing  the 
sight  of  it  had  been  forbid  him.  I  leave  you  to  imagine 
what  the  lady  must  have  thought  within  her  heart.  Now 
of  this  same  lady  and  M.  d'Orleans  'tis  said  did  spring 
that  brave  and  valiant  soldier,  the  Bastard  of  Orleans, 
the  mainstay  of  France  and  scourge  of  England,  from 
whom  is  descended  the  noble  and  generous  race  of  the 
Comtes  de  Dunois. 

[62] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ISSffiSSMSmmglMIMlMlMl^^ 

However  to  return  to  our  tales  of  husband  too  ready  to 
give  others  sight  of  their  wives  naked,  I  know  one  who,  on 
a  morning,  a  comrade  of  his  having  gone  to  see  him  in  his 
chamber  as  he  was  dressing,  did  show  him  his  wife  quite 
naked,  lying  all  her  length  fast  asleep,  having  herself 
thrown  her  bed-clothes  off  her,  it  being  very  hot  weather. 
So  he  did  draw  aside  the  curtain  half  way,  in  such  wise 
that  the  rising  sun  shining  upon  her,  he  had  leisure  to 
contemplate  well  and  thoroughly  at  his  ease,  which  doing 
he  beheld  naught  but  what  was  right  fair  and  perfect. 
On  all  this  beauty  then  he  did  feast  his  eyes,  not  indeed 
as  long  as  he  would,  but  as  long  as  he  could;  and  after, 
the  husband  and  he  went  forth  to  the  Palace. 

The  next  day,  the  gentleman  who  was  an  ardent  lover 
of  this  same  honourable  lady,  did  report  to  her  the  sight 
he  had  seen,  and  even  described  many  things  he  had  noted. 
He  said  further  it  was  the  husband  which  did  urge  him 
thereto,  and  he  and  no  other  had  drawn  the  curtain  for 
him  to  see.  The  lady,  out  of  the  despite  she  then  con- 
ceived against  her  husband,  did  let  herself  go,  and  so  gave 
herself  to  his  friend  on  this  only  account, — a  thing  which 
all  his  service  and  devotion  had  not  before  been  able  to 
win. 

I  knew  once  a  very  great  Lord,  who,  one  morning,  wish- 
ing to  go  an-hunting,  and  his  gentlemen  having  come  to 
find  him  at  his  rising,  even  as  they  were  booting  him,  and 
he  had  his  wife  lying  by  him  and  holding  him  right  close 
to  her,  he  did  so  suddenly  lift  the  coverlet  she  had  no  time 
to  move  away  from  where  she  rested,  in  such  wise  that 
they  all  saw  her  as  much  as  they  pleased  even  to  the  half 
of  her  body.  Then  with  a  loud  laugh  did  the  Lord  cry 
to  these  gentlemen  there  present:  "Well,  well!  sirs,  have 

[63] 


^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

BMBS3MlMBg5M!Mi^iM^ 

not  I  let  you  see  enough  and  to  spare  of  my  good  wife?" 
But  so  vexed  and  chagrined  was  she  at  it  all  that  she  did 
conceive  a  great  grudge  against  him  therefor,  and  above 
all  for  the  way  she  had  been  surprised.  And  it  may  well 
be,  she  did  pay  it  back  to  him  with  interest  later  on. 

I  know  yet  another  of  these  great  Lords,  who  learning 
that  a  friend  and  kinsman  of  his  was  in  love  with  his  wife, 
whether  to  make  him  the  more  envious  or  to  make  him 
taste  all  the  despite  and  despair  he  might  conceive  at  the 
thought  of  the  other  possessing  so  fair  a  woman,  and  he 
having  never  so  much  as  a  chance  of  touching  her,  did 
show  her  him  one  morning,  when  he  had  come  to  see  him, 
the  pair  being  a-bed  together.  Yea  !  he  did  even  worse, 
for  he  did  set  about  to  embrace  her  before  his  eyes,  as 
though  she  had  been  altogether  in  a  privy  place.  Fur- 
ther he  kept  begging  of  his  friend  to  see,  saying  he  was 
doing  it  all  to  gratify  him.  I  leave  you  to  imagine  whether 
the  lady  did  not  find  in  such  conduct  of  her  husband  excuse 
to  do  likewise  in  all  ways  with  the  friend,  and  of  good  con- 
science, and  whether  he  was  not  right  well  punished  by 
being  made  to  bear  the  horns. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  yet  another,  likewise  a  great 
Lord,  who  did  the  same  with  his  wife  before  a  great  Prince, 
his  master,  but,  'twas  by  his  prayer  and  commandment, 
for  he  was  one  that  took  delight  in  this  form  of  gratifica- 
tion. Now  are  not  such  like  persons  blameworthy,  for 
that  after  being  pandars  to  their  own  wives,  they  will 
after  be  their  executioners  too? 

It  is  never  expedient  for  a  man  to  expose  his  wife,  any 
more  than  his  lands,  countries  or  places.  And  I  may  cite 
an  example  hereof  which  I  did  learn  from  a  great  Cap- 
tain. It  concerns  the  late  M.  de  Savoye,  who  did  dissuade 

[64] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

aiiyiiiij5iyfl»yiii^!ji&aifei^^ 

the  late  King  of  France,3  when  on  his  return  from  Poland 
he  was  passing  through  Lombardy,  and  counselled  him  not 
to  go  to  Milan  or  enter  therein,  alleging  that  the  King  of 
Spain  might  take  umbrage  thereat.  But  this  was  not  the 
real  cause  at  all ;  rather  was  he  afraid  lest  the  King  being 
once  there  and  visiting  all  quarters  of  the  city,  and  be- 
holding its  beauty  and  riches  and  grandeur,  might  be 
assailed  by  an  overwhelming  desire  to  have  it  again  and 
reconquer  it  by  fair  and  honest  right,  as  had  done  his 
predecessors.  Now  this  was  the  true  reason,  as  a  great 
Prince  said  who  knew  the  fact  from  our  late  King,  who 
for  his  part  quite  well  understood  what  the  restriction 
meant.  However,  to  be  complaisant  to  M.  de  Savoye,  and 
to  cause  no  offence  on  the  part  of  the  King  of  Spain,  he 
took  his  march  so  as  to  pass  by  the  city,  albeit  he  had 
all  the  wish  in  the  world  to  go  thither,  by  what  he  did  me 
the  honour  to  tell  me  after  his  return  to  Lyons.  In  this 
transaction  we  cannot  but  deem  M.  de  Savoye  to  have 
been  more  of  a  Spaniard  than  a  Frenchman. 

I  deem  those  husbands  likewise  very  much  to  blame  who 
after  having  received  their  life  by  favour  of  their  wives, 
are  so  little  grateful  therefor,  as  that  for  any  suspicion 
they  have  of  their  intriguing  with  other  men,  do  treat 
them  exceeding  harshly,  to  the  extent  of  making  attempt 
upon  their  lives.  I  have  heard  speak  of  a  Lord  against 
whose  life  sundry  conspirators  having  conspired  and  plot- 
ted, his  wife  by  dint  of  her  prayers  did  turn  them  from 
their  purpose,  and  saved  her  husband  from  being  assas- 
sinated. But  nevertheless  later  on  was  she  very  ill  re- 
warded by  him  and  entreated  most  cruelly. 

I  have  seen  likewise  a  gentleman  who,  having  been  ac- 
cused and  brought  to  trial  for  very  bad  performance  of 

[65] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

ggyiia^iis^yjifi^iiaaHK^i^^ 

his  duty  in  succouring  his  General  in  a  battle,  so  much  so 
that  he  had  left  him  to  be  killed  without  any  help  or  suc- 
cour at  all,  was  nigh  to  be  sentenced  and  condemned  to 
have  his  head  cut  off,  and  this  notwithstanding  20,000 
crowns  the  which  he  did  give  to  save  his  life.  Thereupon 
his  wife  spake  to  a  great  Lord  holding  high  place  in  the 
world,  and  lay  with  him  by  permission  and  at  the  suppli- 
cation of  the  said  husband;  and  so  what  money  had  not 
been  able  to  do,  this  did  her  beauty  and  fair  body  effect, 
and  she  did  save  him  his  life  and  liberty.  Yet  after  he 
did  treat  her  so  ill  as  that  nothing  could  be  worse.  Of  a 
surety  husbands  of  the  sort,  so  cruel  and  savage,  are  very 
pitiful  creatures. 

Others  again  have  I  known  who  did  quite  otherwise,  for 
that  they  have  known  how  to  show  gratitude  to  those  that 
helped  them,  and  have  all  their  life  long  honoured  the 
good  dame  that  had  saved  them  from  death. 

There  is  yet  another  sort  of  cuckolds,  those  who  are  not 
content  to  have  been  suspicious  and  difficult  all  their  life, 
but  when  going  to  leave  this  world  and  on  the  point  of 
death,  are  so  still.  Of  this  sort  knew  I  one  who  had  a  very 
fair  and  honourable  lady  to  wife,  but  yet  had  not  always 
given  her  all  to  him  alone.  When  now  he  was  like  to  die, 
he  said  to  her  repeatedly:  "Ah!  wife  mine,  I  am  going  to 
die  !  And  would  to  God  you  could  have  kept  me  company, 
and  you  and  I  could  have  gone  together  into  the  other 
world  !  My  death  had  not  then  been  so  hateful  to  me,  and 
I  should  have  taken  it  in  better  part."  But  the  lady,  who 
was  still  very  fair  and  not  more  than  thirty-seven  years 
old,  was  by  no  means  fain  to  follow  him,  nor  agree  with 
him  in  this.  Nor  yet  was  she  willing  to  play  the  mad- 
woman for  his  sake,  as  we  read  did  Evadne,  daughter  of 

[66] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

swiifeMtyfl&ffliyafeffliyii^^ 

Mars  and  Thebe  and  wife  of  Capaneus,4  the  which  did 
love  her  husband  so  ardently  that,  he  having  died,  so  soon 
as  ever  his  body  was  cast  on  the  fire,  she  threw  herself 
thereon  all  alive  as  she  was,  and  was  burned  and  con- 
sumed along  with  him,  in  her  great  constancy  and  strength 
of  purpose,  and  so  did  accompany  him  in  his  death. 

Alcestis5  did  far  better  yet,  for  having  learned  by  an 
oracle  that  her  husband  Admetus,  King  of  Thessaly,  was 
to  die  presently,  unless  his  life  were  redeemed  by  the  death 
of  some  other  of  his  friends,  she  did  straightway  devote 
herself  to  a  sudden  death,  and  so  saved  her  husband  alive. 

Nowadays  are  no  women  of  this  kindly  sort  left,  who 
are  fain  to  go  of  their  own  pleasure  into  the  grave  before 
their  husbands,  and  not  survive  them.  No!  such  are  no 
more  to  be  found;  the  dams  that  bare  them  are  dead,  as 
say  the  horse-dealers  of  Paris  of  horses,  when  no  more 
good  ones  are  to  be  got. 

And  this  is  why  I  did  account  the  husband,  whose  case 
I  but  now  adduced,  ill-advised  to  make  such  proposals  to 
his  wife  and  odious  so  to  invite  her  to  death,  as  though  it 
had  been  some  merry  feast  to  invite  her  to.  It  was  an  ar- 
rant piece  of  jealousy  that  did  make  him  so  speak,  and  the 
despite  he  did  feel  within  himself,  he  would  presently  ex- 
perience yonder  in  the  lower  world,  when  he  should  see 
his  wife,  whom  he  had  so  excellently  trained,  in  the  arms 
of  some  lover  of  hers  or  some  new  husband. 

What  a  strange  sort  of  jealousy  was  this  her  husband 
must  have  been  seized  with  for  the  nonce,  and  strange  how 
he  would  keep  telling  her  again  and  again  how  if  he  should 
recover,  he  would  no  more  suffer  at  her  hands  what  he 
had  suffered  aforetime  !  Yet,  so  long  as  he  was  alive  and 

[67] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gB^MDSSMiMijyaMByfliSSM^ 

well,  he  had  never  been  attacked  by  the  like  feelings,  but 
ever  let  her  do  at  her  own  good  pleasure. 

The  gallant  Tancred6  did  quite  otherwise,  the  same 
who  in  old  days  did  so  signalise  his  valour  in  the  Holy 
War.  Being  at  the  point  of  death,  and  his  wife  beside 
him  making  moan,  together  with  the  Count  of  Tripoly, 
he  did  beg  the  twain  when  that  he  was  dead,  to  wed  one 
another,  and  charged  his  wife  to  obey  him  therein, — the 
which  they  afterward  did. 

Mayhap  he  had  observed  some  loving  dalliance  betwixt 
them  during  his  lifetime.  For  she  may  well  have  been  as 
very  a  harlot  as  her  mother,  the  Countess  of  Anjou,  who 
after  the  Comte  de  Bretagne  had  had  her  long  while,  went 
unto  Philip,7  the  King  of  France,  who  did  treat  her  the 
same  fashion,  and  had  of  her  a  bastard  daughter  called 
Cicile,  whom  after  he  did  give  in  marriage  to  this  same 
valorous  Tancred,  who  by  reason  of  his  noble  exploits  did 
of  a  surety  little  deserve  to  be  cuckold. 

An  Albanian,  having  been  condemned  in  Southern  lands 
to  be  hung  for  some  offence,  being  in  the  service  of  the 
King  of  France,  when  he  was  to  be  led  out  to  his  punish- 
ment, did  ask  to  see  his  wife,  who  was  a  very  fair  and 
lovable  woman,  and  bid  her  farewell.  Then  while  he  was 
saying  his  farewell  and  in  the  act  of  kissing  her,  lo!  he 
did  bite  her  nose  right  off  and  tear  it  clean  out  of  her 
pretty  face.  And  the  officers  thereupon  questioning  him 
why  he  had  done  this  horrible  thing  to  his  wife,  he  replied 
he  had  done  it  out  of  sheer  jealousy,  "seeing  she  is  very 
fair,  for  the  which  after  my  death  I  wot  well  she  will 
straightway  be  sought  after  and  given  up  to  some  other 
of  my  comrades,  for  I  know  her  to  be  exceeding  lecherous 
and  one  to  forget  me  without  more  ado.  I  am  fain  there- 

[68] 


WWWWftBfiagfflgg^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ttiiya^^i^ai^at^aiy^ 

fore  she  bear  me  in  memory  after  my  death,  and  weep  and 
be  sorry.  If  she  is  not  so  for  my  death's  sake,  at  least 
will  she  be  sore  grieved  at  being  disfigured,  and  none  of 
my  comrades  will  have  the  pleasure  of  her  I  have  had." 
Verily  an  appalling  instance  of  a  jealous  husband! 

I  have  heard  speak  of  others  who,  feeling  themselves 
old,  failing,  wounded,  worn  out  and  near  to  death,  have 
out  of  sheer  despite  and  jealousy  privily  cut  short  their 
mates'  days,  even  when  they  have  been  fair  and  beauteous 
women. 

Now  as  to  such  strange  humours  on  the  part  of  these 
cruel  and  tyrannic  husbands  which  do  thus  put  their  wives 
to  death,  I  have  heard  the  question  disputed, — to  wit, 
whether  it  is  permitted  women,  when  they  do  perceive  or 
suspect  the  cruelty  and  murder  their  husbands  are  fain 
to  practise  against  them,  to  gain  the  first  hand  and  an- 
ticipate their  aggressors  and  so  save  their  own  lives,  mak- 
ing the  others  play  the  part  first  and  sending  these  on  in 
front  to  make  ready  house  and  home  in  the  other  world. 

I  have  heard  it  maintained  the  answer  should  be  yes, — 
that  they  may  do  so,  not  certainly  according  to  God's 
law,  for  thereby  is  all  murder  forbid,  as  I  have  said,  but 
by  the  world's  way  of  thinking,  well  enough.  This  opinion 
men  base  on  the  saying, — better  'tis  to  be  beforehand  than 
behind.  For  no  doubt  everyone  is  bound  to  take  heed  for 
his  own  life;  and  seeing  God  hath  given  it  us,  we  must 
guard  it  well  till  he  shall  call  us  away  at  our  death. 
Otherwise,  knowing  their  death  to  be  planned,  to  go  head- 
first into  the  same,  and  not  to  escape  from  it  when  they 
can,  is  to  kill  their  own  selves, — a  crime  which  God  doth 
very  greatly  abhor.  Wherefore  'tis  ever  the  best  plan  to 
send  them  on  ahead  as  envoys,  and  parry  their  assault,  as 

[69] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

ma^j^i^v^^^ 

did  Blanche  d'Auverbruckt  to  her  husband,  the  Sieur  de 
Flavy,  Captain  of  Compiegne  and  Governor  thereof,  the 
same  who  did  betray  the  maid  of  Orleans,  and  was  cause 
of  her  death  and  undoing.  Now  this  lady  Blanche,  learn- 
ing that  her  husband  did  plot  to  have  her  drowned,  got 
beforehand  with  him,  and  by  aid  of  his  barber  did  smother 
and  strangle  him,  for  which  deed  our  King  Charles  VII.8 
gave  her  instantly  his  pardon;  though  for  the  obtaining 
of  this  'tis  like  the  husband's  treason  went  for  much,  — 
more  indeed  than  any  other  reason.  These  facts  are  to 
be  found  in  the  Chronicles  of  France,  and  particularly  in 
those  of  Guyenne. 

The  same  was  done  by  a  certain  Madame  de  la  Borne, 
in  the  reign  of  Francis  I.9  This  lady  did  accuse  and 
inform  against  her  husband  for  sundry  follies  committed 
and  crimes,  it  may  be  monstrous  crimes,  he  had  done 
against  her  and  other  women.  She  had  him  thrown  into 
prison,  pleaded  against  him  and  finally  got  his  head  cut 
off.  I  have  heard  my  grandmother  tell  the  tale,  who  used 
to  say  she  was  of  good  family  and  a  very  handsome 
woman.  Well  !  she  at  any  rate  did  get  well  beforehand  ! 

Queen  Jeanne  of  Naples,10  the  First  of  that  name,  did 
the  like  toward  the  Infanta  of  Majorca,  her  third  hus- 
band, whose  head  she  did  cause  to  be  cut  off  for  the  reason 
I  have  named  in  the  Discourse  dealing  with  him.  But  it 
may  well  be  she  did  also  fear  him,  and  was  fain  to  be  rid 
of  him  the  first.  Herein  was  she  much  in  the  right,  and 
all  women  in  like  case,  to  act  thus  when  they  are  sus- 
picious of  their  gallants'  purpose. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  many  ladies  that  have  bravely 
escaped  in  this  fashion.  Nay  !  I  have  known  one,  who 
having  been  found  by  her  husband  with  her  lover,  he  said 

[70] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

^^IMIMIMIMIMI^^^ 

never  a  word  to  one  or  the  other,  but  departed  in  fierce 
anger,  and  left  her  there  in  the  chamber  with  her  lover, 
sore  amazed  and  in  much  despair  and  doubt.  Still  the 
lady  had  spirit  enough  to  declare,  "He  has  done  naught 
nor  said  naught  to  me  this  time;  but  I  am  sore  afraid  he 
doth  bear  rancour  and  secret  spite.  Now  if  I  were  only 
sure  he  was  minded  to  do  me  to  death,  I  would  take 
thought  how  to  make  him  feel  death  the  first."  Fortune 
was  so  kind  to  her  after  some  while  that  the  husband  did 
die  of  himself;  And  hereof  was  she  right  glad,  for  never 
after  his  discovery  had  he  made  her  good  cheer,  no  matter 
what  attention  and  consideration  she  showed  him. 

Yet  another  question  is  there  in  dispute  as  concerning 
these  same  madmen,  these  furious  husbands  and  perilous 
cuckolds,  to  wit  on  which  of  the  two  they  set  and  work 
their  vengeance,  whether  on  their  wives,  or  their  wives' 
lovers. 

Some  there  be  which  have  declared,  "on  the  woman 
only,"  basing  their  doctrine  on  the  Italian  proverb  morta 
la  bastia,  morta  la  rabbia  o  vereno  —  "when  the  beast  is 
dead,  the  madness,  or  venom,  is  dead."  For  they  think, 
so  it  would  seem,  to  be  quite  cured  of  their  hurt  when 
they  have  once  killed  her  who  caused  the  pain,  herein 
doing  neither  more  nor  less  than  they  who  have  been  bit 
or  stung  by  a  scorpion.  The  most  sovran  remedy  these 
have  is  to  take  the  creature,  kill  and  crush  it  flat,  and 
put  it  on  the  bite  or  wound  it  hath  made.  The  same  are 
ready  to  say,  and  do  commonly  say,  'tis  the  women  who 
are  the  more  deserving  of  punishment.  I  here  refer  to 
great  ladies  and  of  high  rank,  and  not  to  humble,  com- 
mon and  of  low  degree.  For  suchlike  it  is,  by  their  lovely 
charms,  their  confidences,  their  orders  given  and  soft 

[71] 


YM'rftYMY»Y<y4V^w"r*Y.r/i\^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


words  spoken,  who  do  provoke  the  first  skirmishes  and 
bring  on  the  battle,  whereas  the  men  do  but  follow  their 
lead.  But  such  as  do  call  for  war  and  begin  it,  are  more 
deserving  of  blame  than  such  as  only  fight  in  self-defence. 
For  oftentimes  men  adventure  themselves  in  the  like  dan- 
gerous places  and  on  such  high  emprize,  only  when  chal- 
lenged by  the  ladies,  who  do  signify  in  divers  fashions 
their  predilection.  Just  as  we  see  in  a  great,  good,  well- 
guarded  frontier  town,  it  is  exceeding  difficult  to  attack 
the  same  unawares  or  surprise  it,  unless  there  be  some 
secret  undertaking  among  some  of  the  inhabitants,  and 
some  that  do  encourage  the  assailants  to  the  attempt  and 
entice  them  on  and  give  them  a  hand  of  succour. 

Now,  forasmuch  as  women  are  something  more  fragile 
than  men,  they  must  be  forgiven,  and  it  should  be  remem- 
bered how  that,  when  once  they  have  begun  to  love  and 
set  love  in  their  hearts,  they  will  achieve  it  at  what  cost 
soever,  not  content, — not  all  of  them  that  is, — to  brood 
over  it  within,  and  little  by  little  waste  away,  and  grow 
dried  up  and  sickly,  and  spoil  their  beauty  therefor, — 
which  is  the  reason  they  do  long  to  be  cured  of  it  and  get 
pleasure  therefrom,  and  not  die  in  ferret's  fashion,  as  the 
saying  is.11 

Of  a  surety  I  have  known  not  a  few  fair  ladies  of  this 
humour,  who  have  been  foremost  to  make  love  to  the  other 
sex,  even  sooner  than  the  men,  and  for  divers  accounts, — 
some  for  that  they  see  them  handsome,  brave,  valiant 
and  lovable;  others  to  cozen  them  out  of  a  sum  of  hard 
cash;  others  to  get  of  them  pearls  and  precious  stones, 
and  dresses  of  cloth  of  gold  and  of  silver.  And  I  have  seen 
them  take  as  great  pains  to  get  these  things  as  a  mer- 
chant to  sell  his  commodities,  and  indeed  they  say  the 

[72] 


.fo^ty^tfo\il^f^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


iv«/j^ftit>ftK^t«tit>»am^t^i^t^i^^ 


woman  who  takes  presents,  sells  herself.  Some  again,  to 
win  Court  favour ;  others  to  win  the  like  with  men  of  the 
law.  Thus  several  fair  dames  I  have  known,  who  though 
having  no  right  on  their  side,  yet  did  get  it  over  to  them 
by  means  of  their  fleshly  charms  and  bodily  beauty.  Yet 
others  again,  only  to  live  delicately  by  the  giving  of  their 
body. 

Many  women  have  I  seen  so  enamoured  of  their  lovers, 
that  they  would,  so  to  speak,  chase  them  and  run  amain 
after  them,  causing  the  world  to  cast  scorn  at  them 
therefor. 

I  once  knew  a  very  fair  lady  so  enamoured  of  a  Lord  of 
the  great  world,  that  whereas  commonly  lovers  do  wear 
the  colours  of  their  ladies,  this  one  on  the  contrary  would 
be  wearing  those  of  her  gallant.  I  could  quite  well  name 
the  colours,  but  that  would  be  telling  over  much. 

I  knew  yet  another,  whose  husband,  having  affronted 
her  lover  at  a  tourney  which  was  held  at  Court,  the  while 
he  was  in  the  dancing-hall  and  was  celebrating  his  tri- 
umph, she  did  out  of  despite  dress  herself  in  man's  clothes 
and  went  to  meet  her  lover  and  offer  him  her  favours  in 
masquerade, — for  so  enamoured  of  him  was  she,  as  that 
she  was  like  to  die  thereof. 

I  knew  an  honourable  gentleman,  and  one  of  the  least 
spoken  against  at  Court,  who  did  one  day  manifest  desire 
to  be  lover  to  a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady,  if  ever 
there  was  one;  but  whereas  she  made  many  advances  on 
her  side,  he  on  his  stood  on  guard  for  many  reasons  and 
accounts.  But  the  said  lady,  having  set  her  love  on  him, 
and  having  cast  the  die  this  way  at  whatsoever  hazard,  as 
she  did  herself  declare,  did  never  cease  to  entice  him  to 
her  by  the  fairest  words  of  love  that  ever  she  could  speak, 

[73] 


r^itfcY«/»irAMto?^^ 


^!^l34l«14^^l^!^tiigiil^H^ 


saying  amongst  other  things:  "Nay!  but  suffer  at  any 
rate  that  I  love  you,  if  you  will  not  love  me;  and  look 
not  to  my  deserts,  but  rather  to  the  love  and  passion  I 
do  bear  you," — though  in  actual  truth  she  did  outbal- 
ance the  gentleman  on  the  score  of  perfections.  In  this 
case  what  could  the  gentleman  have  done  but  love  her,  as 
she  was  very  fain  to  love  him,  and  serve  her ;  then  ask  the 
salary  and  reward  of  his  service.  This  he  had  in  due 
course,  as  is  but  reasonable  that  whoever  doth  a  favour 
be  paid  therefor. 

I  could  allege  an  infinite  number  of  such  ladies,  which 
do  seek  toward  lovers  rather  than  are  sought.  And  I 
will  tell  you  why  they  have  more  blame  than  their  lovers. 
Once  they  have  assailed  their  man,  they  do  never  leave 
off  till  they  gain  their  end  and  entice  him  by  their  alluring 
looks,  their  charms,  the  pretty  made-up  graces  they  do 
study  to  display  in  an  hundred  thousand  fashions,  by  the 
subtle  bepainting  of  their  face,  if  it  be  not  beautiful,  their 
fine  head-dresses,  the  rich  and  rare  fashions  of  wearing 
their  hair,  so  aptly  suited  to  their  beauty,  their  magnifi- 
cent, stately  costumes,  and  above  all  by  their  dainty  and 
half-wanton  words,  as  well  as  by  their  pretty,  frolic  ges- 
tures and  familiarities,  and  lastly  by  gifts  and  presents. 
So  this  is  how  men  are  taken:  and  being  once  taken,  needs 
must  they  take  advantage  of  their  captors.  Wherefore 
'tis  maintained  their  husbands  are  fairly  bound  to  wreak 
their  vengeance  on  them. 

Others  hold  the  husband  should  take  his  satisfaction  of 
the  men,  when  that  he  can,  just  as  one  would  of  such  as 
lay  siege  to  a  town.  For  they  it  is  are  the  first  to  sound 
the  challenge  and  call  on  the  place  to  surrender,  the  first 
to  make  reconnaissances  and  approaches,  the  first  to 

[74] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

lMiMl^^ 


throw  up  entrenchments  of  gabions  and  raise  bastions 
and  dig  trenches,  the  first  to  plant  batteries  and  advance 
to  the  assault,  and  the  first  to  open  negotiations  ;  and 
even  so  is  it,  they  allege,  with  lovers.  For  like  doughty, 
valiant  and  determined  soldiers  they  do  assault  the  fort- 
ress of  ladies'  chastity,  till  these,  after  all  fashions  of  as- 
sault and  modes  of  importunity  have  been  duly  observed, 
are  constrained  to  make  signal  of  capitulation  and  receive 
their  pleasant  foes  within  their  fortifications.  Wherein 
methinks  they  are  not  so  blameworthy  as  they  wauld  fain 
make  out  ;  for  indeed  to  be  rid  of  an  importunate  beggar 
is  very  difficult  without  leaving  somewhat  of  one's  own 
behind.  So  have  I  seen  many  who  by  their  long  service 
and  much  perseverance  have  at  length  had  their  will  of 
their  mistresses,  who  at  the  first  would  not,  so  to  say, 
have  given  them  their  cvl  a  baiser,  constraining  them,  or 
at  any  rate  some  of  them,  to  this  degree  that  out  of  pure 
pity,  and  tear  in  eye,  they  did  give  them  their  way.  Just 
as  at  Paris  a  man  doth  very  often  give  an  alms  to  the 
beggars  about  an  inn  door  more  by  reason  of  their  im- 
portunity than  from  devotion  or  the  love  of  God.  The 
same  is  the  case  with  many  women,  who  yield  rather  for 
being  over-importuned  than  because  they  are  really  in 
love  —  as  also  with  great  and  powerful  wooers,  men  whom 
they  do  fear  and  dare  not  refuse  because  of  their  high 
authority,  dreading  to  do  them  a  displeasure  and  there- 
after to  receive  scandal  and  annoyance  of  them  or  a  de- 
liberate affront  or  great  hurt  and  sore  disparagement  to 
their  honour.  For  verily  have  I  seen  great  mischiefs 
happen  in  suchlike  conjunctions. 

This  is  why  those  evil-minded   husbands,  which  take 
such  delight  in  blood  and  murder  and  evil  entreatment  of 

[75] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

their  wives,  should  not  be  so  hasty,  but  ought  first  to  make 
a  secret  inquiry  into  all  matters,  albeit  such  knowledge 
may  well  be  grievous  to  them  and  very  like  to  make  them 
scratch  their  head  for  its  sore  itching  thereat,  and  this 
even  though  some,  wretches  that  they  are,  do  give  their 
wives  all  the  occasion  in  the  world  to  go  astray. 

Thus  I  once  knew  a  great  Prince  of  a  foreign  country, 
who  had  married  a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady.  Yet 
did  he  very  often  leave  her  to  go  with  another  woman, 
which  was  supposed  to  be  a  famous  courtesan,  though 
others  thought  she  was  a  lady  of  honour  whom  he  had 
debauched.  But  not  satisfied  with  this,  when  he  had  her 
to  sleep  with  him,  it  was  in  a  low-roofed  chamber  under- 
neath that  of  his  wife  and  underneath  her  bed.  Then 
when  he  was  fain  to  embrace  his  mistress,  he  was  not  con- 
tent with  the  wrong  he  was  doing  his  lady  already,  but 
in  derision  and  mockery  would  with  a  half-pike  knock  two 
or  three  blows  on  the  floor  and  shout  up  to  his  wife: 
"A  health  to  you,  wife  mine !"  This  scorn  and  insult  was 
repeated  several  days,  and  did  so  anger  his  wife  that  out 
of  despair  and  desire  of  vengeance  she  did  accost  a  very 
honourable  gentleman  one  day  and  said  to  him  privily: 
"Sir!  I  am  fain  you  should  have  your  pleasure  of  me; 
otherwise  do  I  know  of  means  whereby  to  undo  you." 
The  other,  right  glad  of  so  fine  an  adventure,  did  in  no 
wise  refuse  her.  Wherefore,  so  soon  as  her  husband  had 
his  fair  leman  in  his  arms,  and  she  likewise  her  fond  lover, 
and  he  would  cry,  "A  health!"  to  her,  then  would  she 
answer  him  in  the  same  coin,  crying,  "And  I  drink  to 
you!"  or  else,  "I  pledge  you  back,  good  Sir !" 

These  toasts  and  challenges  and  replies,  so  made  and 
arranged  as  to  suit  with  the  acts  of  each,  continued  some 

[76] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ggLai^iy^iiyfliyiii^^ 

longish  while,  till  at  length  the  Prince,  a  wily  and  sus- 
picious man,  did  suspect  something.  So  setting  a  watch, 
he  did  discover  how  his  wife  was  gaily  cuckolding  him  all 
the  while,  and  making  good  cheer  and  drinking  toasts 
just  as  well  as  he  was,  by  way  of  retaliation  and  revenge. 
Then  having  made  sure  it  was  verily  so,  he  did  quick  alter 
and  transform  his  comedy  into  a  tragedy;  and  having 
challenged  her  for  the  last  time  with  his  toast,  and  she 
having  rendered  him  back  his  answer  and  as  good  as  he 
gave,  he  did  instantly  mount  upstairs,  and  forcing  and 
breaking  down  the  door,  rushes  in  and  reproaches  her 
for  her  ill-doing.  But  she  doth  make  answer  on  her  side 
in  this  wise,  "I  know  well  I  am  a  dead  woman.  So  kill  me 
bodily;  I  am  not  afraid  of  death,  and  do  welcome  it 
gladly,  now  I  am  avenged  on  you,  seeing  I  have  made  you 
cuckold.  For  you  did  give  me  great  occasion  thereto, 
without  which  I  had  never  gone  astray.  I  had  vowed  all 
fidelity  to  you,  and  never  should  I  have  broken  my  troth 
for  all  the  temptations  in  the  whole  world.  Nay!  you 
were  no  wise  worthy  of  so  honest  a  wife  as  I.  So  kill 
me  straightway;  but  if  there  is  any  pity  in  your  hand, 
pardon,  I  beseech  you,  this  poor  gentleman,  who  of  him- 
self is  no  whit  to  blame,  for  I  did  invite  him  and  urge 
him  to  help  me  to  my  vengeance."  The  Prince,  over  cruel 
altogether,  doth  ruthlessly  kill  the  twain.  But  what  else 
should  this  unhappy  Princess  have  done  in  view  of  the 
indignities  and  insults  of  her  husband,  if  not  what,  in 
despair  of  any  other  succour  in  all  the  world,  she  did? 
Some  there  be  will  excuse  her,  some  accuse  her;  many 
arguments  and  good  reasons  may  be  alleged  thereanent 
on  either  side. 

In  the  Cent  Nouvelles  of  the  Queen  of  Navarre  is  an 

[77] 


WiT^^ 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


&Stt®)isi8®ujs»«gty!iR®J^ 


almost  similar  tale,  and  a  very  fine  one  to  boot,  of  the 
Queen  of  Naples,  who  in  like  manner  did  revenge  herself 
on  the  King  her  husband.  Yet  'Fas  the  end  thereof  not 
so  tragical. 


7. 


i|O  now  let  us  have  done  with  these  demons  and 
mad,  furious  cuckolds  and  speak  no  more  of 
them,  for  that  they  be  odious  and  unpleasing, 
seeing  I  should  never  have  finished  if  I  should 
tell  of  them  all,  and  moreover  the  subject  is  neither  good 
nor  pleasant.  Let  us  discourse  a  while  of  kindly  cuckolds, 
such  as  are  good  fellows,  of  placable  humour,  men  easy 
to  deal  with  and  of  a  holy  patience,  well  humoured  and 
readily  appeased,  that  shut  the  eyes  and  are — good- 
natured  fools. 

Now  of  these  some  are  predestined  of  their  very  nature 
to  be  so,  some  know  how  it  is  before  they  marry,  to  wit, 
know  that  their  ladies,  widows  or  maids,  have  already  gone 
astray ;  others  again  know  naught  of  it  at  all,  but  marry 
them  on  trust,  on  the  word  of  their  fathers  and  mothers, 
their  family  and  friends. 

I  have  known  not  a  few  which  have  married  women  and 
girls  of  loose  life,  whom  they  well  knew  had  been  passed 
in  review  by  sundry  Kings,  Princes,  Lords,  gentlemen  and 
other  folk.  Yet  for  love  of  them,  or  attracted  by  their 
goods,  jewels  and  money  that  they  had  won  at  the  trade 
of  love,  have  made  no  scruple  to  wed  them.  However  I 
propose  here  to  speak  only  of  the  girls  of  this  sort. 
I  have  heard  speak  of  a  mistress  of  a  very  great  and 
sovereign  Prince,  who  being  enamoured  of  a  certain 

[78] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ffla^iiyiiiyiii^mflis^^ 

gentleman,  and  in  such  wise  behaving  herself  toward  him 
as  to  have  received  the  first  fruits  of  his  love,  was  so 
desirous  thereof  that  she  did  keep  him  a  whole  month  in 
her  closet,  feeding  him  on  fortifying  foods,  savoury  soups, 
dainty  and  comforting  meats,  the  better  to  distil  and  draw 
off  his  substance.  Thus  having  made  her  first  apprentice- 
ship with  him,  did  she  continue  her  lessons  under  him  so 
long  as  he  lived,  and  under  others  too.  Afterward  she 
did  marry  at  the  age  of  forty-five  years  to  a  Lord,1  who 
found  naught  to  say  against  her,  but  rather  was  right 
proud  of  so  rare  a  marriage  as  he  had  with  her. 

Boccaccio  repeats  a  proverb  which  was  current  in  his 
day  to  the  effect  that  a  mouth  once  kissed  (others  have  it 
differently)  is  never  out  of  luck;  her  fortune  is  like  the 
moon,  and  waxeth  ever  anew.  This  proverb  he  doth  quote 
in  connection  with  a  story  he  relates  of  that  fair  daughter 
of  the  Sultan  of  Egypt  who  did  pass  and  repass  by  the 
weapons  of  nine  different  lovers,  one  after  the  other,  at 
the  least  three  thousand  times  in  all.  At  long  last  was 
she  delivered  to  the  King  of  Garba  a  pure  virgin,  that  is, 
'twas  so  pretended,  as  pure  as  she  was  at  the  first  promised 
to  him;  and  he  found  no  objection  to  make,  but  was  very 
well  pleased.  The  tale  thereof  is  a  right  good  one. 

I  have  heard  a  great  man  declare  that,  with  many  great 
men,  though  not  all  it  may  be  supposed,  no  heed  is  paid  in 
case  of  women  of  this  sort  to  the  fact,  though  three  or  four 
lovers  have  passed  them  through  their  hands,  before  they 
make  them  their  wives.  This  he  said  anent  of  a  story  of  a 
great  Lord  who  was  deeply  enamoured  of  a  great  lady, 
and  one  of  something  higher  quality  than  himself,  and  she 
loved  him  back.  However  there  fell  out  some  hindrance 
that  they  did  not  wed  as  they  did  expect  one  with  the 

[79] 


aSJBTiffifWW^IffWWWfflgWW^^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

Maife^ii&tti&^^^ 

other.  Whereupon  this  great  nobleman,  the  which  I  have 
just  spoken  of,  did  straightway  ask:  "Did  he  mount  the 
little  jade,  anyway?"  And  when  he  was  answered,  "no!" 
— in  the  other's  opinion  and  by  what  men  told  him,  "So 
much  the  worse  then,"  he  added,  "for  at  any  rate  they  had 
had  so  much  satisfaction  one  of  the  other,  and  no  harm 
would  have  been  done !"  For  among  the  great  no  heed  is 
paid  to  these  rules  and  scruples  of  maidenhood,  seeing  that 
for  these  grand  alliances  everything  must  be  excused. 
Only  too  delighted  are  they,  the  good  husbands  and  gentle 
suckling  cuckolds. 

At  the  time  when  King  Charles  did  make  the  circuit  of 
his  Kingdom,  there  was  left  behind  in  a  certain  good  town, 
which  I  could  name  very  well  had  I  so  wished,  a  female 
child  whereof  an  unmarried  girl  of  a  very  good  house  had 
been  delivered.  So  the  babe  was  given  to  a  poor  woman 
to  nurse  and  rear,  and  there  was  advanced  to  her  a  sum  of 
two  hundred  crowns  for  her  pains.  The  said  poor  woman 
did  nurse  the  infant  and  manage  it  so  well  that  in  fifteen 
years'  time  the  girl  grew  up  very  fair,  and  gave  herself  to 
a  life  of  pleasure.  For  never  another  thought  had  she  of 
her  mother,  who  in  four  months  after  wedded  a  very  great 
nobleman.  Ah!  how  many  such  have  I  known  of  either 
sex,  where  the  like  things  have  been,  and  no  man  suspect- 
ing aught! 

I  once  heard  tell,  when  I  was  in  Spain,  of  a  great  Lord 
of  Andalusia  who  had  married  a  sister  of  his  to  another 
very  great  Lord,  and  who  three  days  after  the  marriage 
was  consummated,  came  and  said  to  him  thus :  Senor  her- 
mano,  agora  que  soys  cazado  con  my  herman,  y  I'haveys 
bien  godida  solo,  yo  le  hago  aher  que  siendo  hija,  tal  y  tal 
gozaron  d'ella.  De  lo  passado  no  tenga  cuydado,  que  poca 

[80] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

SMIM]]yili^l£^gl&ffl^^ 

cosa  es.  Dell  futuro  quartate,  que  mas  y  mucho  a  vos  toca. 
(My  Lord  and  brother,  now  that  you  are  married  to  my 
sister  and  alone  enjoy  her  favours,  it  behooves  you  to 
know  that  when  she  was  yet  unwed,  such  and  such  an  one 
did  have  her.  Take  no  heed  of  the  past,  for  truly  'tis  but 
a  small  thing ;  but  beware  of  the  future,  seeing  now  it  doth 
touch  you  much  more  close), — as  much  as  to  say  that 
what  is  done  is  done,  and  there  is  no  need  to  talk  about  it, 
but  it  were  well  to  be  careful  of  the  future,  for  this  is 
more  nearly  concerned  with  a  man's  honour  than  is  the 
past. 

Some  there  be  are  of  this  humour,  thinking  it  not  so  ill 
to  be  cuckold  in  the  bud,  but  very  ill  in  the  flower, — and 
there  is  some  reason  in  this. 

I  have  likewise  heard  speak  of  a  great  Lord  of  a  foreign 
land,  which  had  a  daughter  who  was  one  of  the  fairest 
women  in  the  world ;  and  she  being  sought  in  marriage  by 
another  great  Lord  who  was  well  worthy  of  her  was 
bestowed  on  him  by  her  father.  But  before  ever  he  could 
let  her  go  forth  the  house,  he  was  fain  to  try  her  him- 
self, declaring  he  would  not  easily  let  go  so  fine  a  mount 
and  one  which  he  had  so  carefully  trained,  without  himself 
having  first  ridden  thereon,  and  found  out  how  she  could 
go  for  the  future.  I  know  not  whether  it  be  true,  but  I 
have  heard  say  it  is,  and  that  not  only  he  did  make  the 
essay,  but  another  comely  and  gallant  gentleman  to  boot. 
And  yet  did  not  the  husband  thereafter  find  anything 
bitter,  but  all  as  sweet  as  sugar.  He  had  been  very  hard 
to  please  if  he  had  otherwise,  for  she  was  one  of  the  fairest 
dames  in  all  the  world. 

I  have  heard  the  like  tales  told  of  many  other  fathers, 
and  in  especial  of  one  very  great  nobleman,  with  regard  to 

[81] 


»irwiy«W4Mr&w«w«w^^ 


<^t>s«ji^^t^t.wji.vsin^i>!|tK^i^^ 


their  daughters.  For  herein  are  they  said  to  have  shown 
no  more  conscience  than  the  Cock  in  Aesop's  Fable.  This 
last,  when  he  was  met  by  the  Fox,  who  did  threaten  him 
and  declare  he  purposed  to  kill  him,  did  therefore  proceed 
to  rehearse  all  the  benefits  he  wrought  for  mankind  and 
above  all  else  the  fair  and  excellent  poultry  that  came  from 
him.  To  this  the  fox  made  answer,  "Ha,  ha!"  said  he, 
"that  is  just  my  quarrel  with  you,  sir  gallant !  For  so 
lecherous  are  you,  you  make  no  difficulty  to  tread  your 
own  daughters  as  readily  as  the  other  hens,"  and  for  this 
crime  did  put  him  to  death.  Verily  a  stern  and  artful 
judge! 

I  leave  you  then  to  imagine  what  some  maids  may  do 
with  their  lovers, — for  never  yet  was  there  a  maid  but 
had  or  was  fain  to  have  a  lover, — and  that  some  there  be 
that  brothers,  cousins  and  kinsfolk  have  done  the  like  with. 

In  our  own  days  Ferdinand,  King  of  Naples,2  knew  thus 
in  wedlock  his  own  aunt,  daughter  of  the  King  of  Castile, 
at  the  age  of  13  or  14  years,  but  this  was  by  dispensation 
of  the  Pope.  Difficulties  were  raised  at  the  time  as  to 
whether  this  ought  to  be  or  could  be  so  given.  Herein 
he  but  followed  the  example  of  Caligula,  the  Roman  Em- 
peror, who  did  debauch  and  have  intercourse  with  each  of 
his  sisters,  one  after  the  other.  And  above  and  beyond 
all  the  rest,  he  did  love  exceedingly  the  youngest,  named 
Drusilla,  whom  when  only  a  lad  he  had  deflowered.  And 
later,  being  then  married  to  one  Lucius  Cassius  Longinus, 
a  man  of  consular  rank,  he  did  take  her  from  her  husband, 
and  lived  with  her  openly,  as  if  she  had  been  his  wife, — so 
much  so  indeed  that  having  fallen  sick  on  one  occasion,  he 
made  her  heiress  of  all  his  property,  including  the 
Empire  itself.  But  it  fell  out  she  died,  which  he  did 

[82] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


grieve  for  so  exceedingly  sore  that  he  made  proclamation 
to  close  the  Courts  and  stay  all  other  business,  in  order  to 
constrain  the  people  to  make  public  mourning  along  with 
him.  And  for  a  length  of  time  he  wore  his  hair  long  and 
beard  untrimmed  for  her  sake ;  and  when  he  was  harangu- 
ing the  Senate,  the  People  or  his  soldiers,  never  swore  but 
by  the  name  of  Drusilla. 

As  for  his  other  sisters,  when  that  he  had  had  his  fill  of 
them,  he  did  prostitute  them  and  gave  them  up  to  his  chief 
pages  which  he  had  reared  up  and  known  in  very  foul 
fashion.  Still  even  so  he  had  done  them  no  outrageous  ill, 
seeing  they  were  accustomed  thereto,  and  that  it  was  a 
pleasant  injury,  as  I  have  heard  it  called  by  some  maids  on 
being  deflowered  and  some  women  who  had  been  ravished. 
But  over  and  above  this,  he  put  a  thousand  indignities 
upon  them;  he  sent  them  into  exile,  he  took  from  them 
all  their  rings  and  jewels  to  turn  into  money,  having 
wasted  and  ill  guided  all  the  vast  sums  Tiberius  had  left 
him.  Natheless  did  the  poor  girls,  having  after  his  death 
come  back  from  banishment,  and  seeing  the  body  of  their 
brother  ill  and  very  meanly  buried  under  a  few  clods  of 
earth,  have  it  disinterred  and  burned  and  duly  buried  as 
honourably  as  they  could.  Surely  a  good  and  noble  deed 
on  the  part  of  sisters  to  a  brother  so  graceless  and  un- 
natural ! 

The  Italian,  by  way  of  excusing  the  illicit  love  of  his 
countryman,  says  that  quando  messer  Bernardo,  il  bu- 
ciacchio  sta  in  colera  et  in  sua  rabbia,  non  riceve  legge, 
et  non  perdona  a  nissuna  dama, — "when  messer  Bernardo, 
the  young  ox,  stand  up  in  anger  and  in  his  passion,  he 
will  receive  no  laws  and  spare  no  lady." 

We  can  find  plenty  of  examples  amongst  the  Ancients  of 

[83] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

gBy^'jjy^By^ai^ffl^^ 

such  as  have  done  the  same.  However  to  come  back  to 
our  proper  subject,  I  have  heard  a  tale  of  one  who  having 
married  a  fair  and  honourable  damsel  to  one  of  his  friends, 
and  boasting  that  he  had  given  him  a  right  good  and  noble 
mount,  sound,  clean  and  free  from  knots  and  malanders, 
as  he  put  it,  and  that  he  lay  the  more  under  obligation  to 
him  therefor,  he  was  answered  by  one  of  the  company, 
who  said  aside  to  one  of  his  comrades :  "That  is  all  quite 
true,  if  only  she  had  not  been  mounted  and  ridden  so 
young  and  far  too  soon.  For  it  has  made  her  a  bit 
foulee  in  front." 

But  likewise  I  would  fain  ask  these  noble  husbands 
whether,  if  such  mounts  had  not  often  some  fault,  some 
little  thing  wrong  with  them,  some  defect  or  blemish,  they 
would  make  the  match  with  others  who  are  more  deserving 
than  they,  like  horse-dealers  who  do  all  they  can  to  get 
rid  of  their  blemished  horses,  but  always  with  those  that 
know  naught  of  the  matter.  Even  so,  as  I  have  heard 
many  a  father  say,  'tis  a  very  fine  riddance  to  be  quit 
of  a  blemished  daughter,  or  one  that  doth  begin  to  be 
so,  or  seems  by  her  looks  like  to  be. 

How  many  damsels  of  the  great  world  I  know  who  have 
not  carried  their  maidenhood  to  the  couch  of  Hymen,  but 
who  have  for  all  that  been  well  instructed  of  their  mothers, 
or  other  their  kinswomen  and  friends,  right  cunning  pimps 
as  they  are,  to  make  a  good  show  at  this  first  assault. 
Divers  are  the  means  and  contrivances  they  do  resort  to 
with  artful  subtleties,  to  make  their  husbands  think  it  well 
and  convince  them  never  a  breach  has  been  made  before. 
The  most  part  resort  to  the  making  of  a  desperate  resist- 
ance and  defence  at  this  point  of  attack,  and  do  fight 
obstinately  to  the  last  extremity.  Whereof  there  are  some 

[84] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


jiv^tM/jw^ji&at^i^t^t^^i^i^^i^ 


husbands  much  delighted,  for  they  do  firmly  believe  they 
have  had  all  the  honour  and  made  the  first  conquest,  like 
right  determined  and  intrepid  soldiers.  Then  next  morn- 
ing they  have  fine  tales  to  tell,  how  they  have  strutted  it 
like  little  cocks  or  cockerels  that  have  eat  much  millet- 
seed  in  the  evening,  making  many  boasts  to  their  com- 
rades and  friends,  and  even  mayhap  to  the  very  men  who 
have  been  the  first  to  invade  the  fortress,  unwittingly  to 
them.  Whereat  these  do  laugh  their  fill  in  their  sleeves, 
and  with  the  women  their  mistresses,  and  boast  they  did 
their  part  well  too,  and  gave  the  damsels  as  good  as  they 
got. 

Some  suspicious  husbands  there  be  however  who  hold  all 
this  resistance  as  of  bad  augury,  and  take  no  satisfaction 
in  seeing  them  so  recalcitrant.  Like  one  I  know  who 
asked  his  wife  why  did  she  thus  play  the  prude  and  make 
difficulties,  and  if  she  disdained  him  so  much  as  all  that; 
but  she  thinking  to  make  excuse  and  put  off  the  fault  on 
something  else  than  disdain,  told  him  'twas  because  she 
was  afraid  he  would  hurt  her.  To  this  he  retorted,  "Now 
have  you  given  proof  positive,  for  no  hurt  can  be  known 
without  having  been  first  suffered."  But  she  was  wily, 
and  denied,  saying  she  had  heard  tell  of  it  by  some  of  her 
companions  who  had  been  married,  and  had  so  advised 
her.  And,  "Hum!  fine  advice  truly  and  fine  words!"  was 
all  he  could  say. 

Another  remedy  these  women  recommend  is  this, — next 
morning  after  their  wedlock  to  show  their  linen  stained 
with  drops  of  blood,  the  which  the  poor  girls  shed  in  the 
cruel  work  of  their  deflowering.  So  is  it  done  in  Spain, 
where  they  do  publicly  display  from  the  window  the  afore- 

[85] 


B?Wg!gWffBra9F»lgglgWfflg^B7Wg^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


aBSat®^!^^^^!^^!^^^ 


said  linen,  crying  aloud,  "Virgen  la  tenemos," — "we  hold 
her  for  a  maid." 

Likewise  of  a  surety  I  have  heard  say  that  at  Viterbo  3 
this  custom  is  similarly  observed.  Moreover,  seeing  such 
damsels  as  have  previously  affronted  the  battle  cannot 
make  this  display  of  their  own  blood,  they  have  devised 
the  plan,  as  I  have  heard  say,  and  as  several  young 
courtesans  at  Rome  have  themselves  assured  me,  the 
better  to  sell  their  maidenhood,  of  staining  the  said  linen 
with  pigeon's  blood,  which  is  the  most  meet  of  all  for  the 
purpose.  So  next  morning  the  husband  doth  see  the 
blood  and  doth  feel  a  great  satisfaction  thereof,  and  doth 
believe  firmly  'tis  the  virginal  blood  of  his  wife.  He 
thinks  himself  a  gallant  and  happy  man,  but  he  is  sore 
deceived  all  the  while. 

Hereanent  will  I  repeat  the  following  merry  tale  of  a 
gentleman  who  had  his  string  tied  in  a  knot  the  first  night 
of  his  wedlock ;  but  the  bride,  who  was  not  one  of  the  very 
fair  and  high-born  sort,  fearing  he  would  be  sore  enraged 
thereat,  did  not  fail,  by  advice  of  her  good  comrades, 
matrons,  kinswomen  and  good  friends,  to  have  the  bit  of 
linen  stained  as  usual.  But  the  mischief  for  her  was  that 
the  husband  was  so  sore  tied  that  he  could  do  naught 
at  all,  albeit  she  thought  no  harm  to  make  him  a  very 
enticing  display  and  deck  herself  for  the  assault  as  well 
as  ever  she  could,  and  lie  conveniently  without  playing  the 
prude  or  making  any  show  of  reluctance  or  deviltry.  At 
least  so  the  lookers-on,  hid  near  by  according  to  custom, 
did  report;  and  indeed  she  did  so  the  better  to  conceal 
the  loss  of  her  maidenhood  elsewhere.  But  for  all  the  red 
linen,  he  had  really  done  naught  whatever. 

At  night,  by  established  custom,  the  midnight  repast 

[86] 


rarth«ir/OTfo»ifcfcV»Y4iflfoNir^ 


K^^^t^l^tX^^^t^lX^VJ^J^ 


having  been  carried  in,  there  was  as  usual  a  worthy  guest 
ready  to  advise  that  in  the  customary  wedding  scramble 
they  should  filch  away  the  sheet,  which  they  did  find  finely 
stained  with  blood.  This  was  instantly  displayed  and  all 
in  attendance  were  assured  by  loud  cries  she  was  no  longer 
a  maid,  and  here  was  the  evidence  her  virgin  membrane 
had  been  deforced  and  ruptured.  The  husband,  who  was 
quite  certain  he  had  done  naught,  but  who  nevertheless 
was  fain  to  pose  as  a  brave  and  valiant  champion,  re- 
mained sore  astounded  and  wot  not  what  this  stained 
sheet  might  mean.  Only  after  sufficient  pondering,  he 
did  begin  to  suspect  some  knavish,  cunning  harlot's  trick, 
yet  never  breathed  a  word. 

The  bride  and  her  confidantes  were  likewise  sore 
troubled  and  astounded  for  that  the  husband  had  so 
missed  fire,  and  that  their  business  was  not  turning  out 
better.  Nothing  however  was  suffered  to  appear  till  after 
a  week's  time,  when  lo !  the  husband  found  his  knot  untied, 
and  did  straight  let  fly  with  might  and  main.  Whereat 
being  right  glad  and  remembering  naught  else,  he  went 
forth  and  published  to  all  the  company  how  in  all  good 
conscience  he  had  now  given  proof  of  his  prowess  and 
made  his  wife  a  true  wife  and  a  proper  married  woman; 
but  did  confess  that  up  till  then  he  had  been  seized  with 
absolute  impotence  to  do  aught.  Hereupon  those  present 
at  the  time  did  hold  diverse  discourse,  and  cast  much 
blame  and  scorn  on  the  bride,  whom  all  had  deemed  a 
wife  by  her  stained  linen.  Thus  did  she  bring  scandal 
on  herself, — albeit  she  was  not  properly  speaking  an 
altogether  cause  thereof,  but  rather  her  husband,  who 
by  feebleness,  slackness  and  lack  of  vigour  did  spoil  his 
own  wedding. 

[87] 


rirsvl!^^ 


KlgfflifffigfflfWfflgW/ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Again,  there  are  some  husbands  that  do  know  at  their 
first  night  as  to  the  maidenhood  of  their  wives,  whether 
they  have  won  it  or  no,  by  the  signs  they  find.  So  one  that 
I  know,  who  did  marry  a  wife  in  second  wedlock ;  but  the 
wife  was  for  making  him  believe  her  first  husband  had  never 
touched  her,  by  reason  of  his  impotence,  and  that  she  was 
virgin  and  a  maid,  as  much  as  before  being  married  at  all. 
Yet  did  he  find  her  of  such  ample  capacity  that  he  ex- 
claimed, "What  ho !  are  you  the  maid  of  Marolles,  so  tight 
and  small  as  they  told  me  you  were?"  So  he  had  just  to 
take  it  as  it  was,  and  make  the  best  of  it.  For  if  her  first 
husband  had  never  touched  her,  as  was  quite  true,  yet 
many  another  man  had. 


8. 

|UT  what  are  we  to  say  of  some  mothers  who, 
seeing  the  impotence  of  their  sons-in-law,  or 
that  they  have  the  string  knotted  or  some 
other  defect,  are  procuresses  to  their  own 
daughters.  Thus  to  win  their  jointures,  they  get  them 
to  yield  to  others,  and  often  to  become  with  child  by 
them,  to  the  end  they  may  have  offspring  to  inherit  after 
the  death  of  the  father. 

I  know  one  such  who  was  ready  enough  to  give  this 
counsel  to  her  daughter,  and  indeed  spared  no  effort  to 
bring  it  about,  but  the  misfortune  for  her  was  that  never 
could  she  have  a  child  at  all.  Also  I  know  a  husband  who, 
not  being  able  to  do  aught  to  his  wife,  did  yield  his  place  to 
a  big  lackey  he  had,  a  handsome  lad,  to  lie  with  his  wife 
and  deflower  her  as  she  slept,  and  in  this  way  save  his 

[88] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

Kiytijy<ii^tiiyii&gi&ffl^ 

honour.  But  she  did  discover  the  trick  and  the  lackey  had 
no  success.  For  which  cause  they  had  a  long  suit  at  law, 
and  finally  were  separated. 

King  Henry  of  Castile1  did  the  like,  who  as  Fulgo- 
sius  2  relates,  seeing  he  could  make  no  children  with  his 
wife,  did  call  in  the  help  of  a  handsome  young  gentleman 
of  his  Court  to  make  them  for  him.  The  which  he  did; 
and  for  his  pains  the  King  gave  him  great  estates  and 
advanced  him  in  all  honours,  distinctions  and  dignities. 
Little  doubt  the  wife  was  grateful  to  him  therefor, 
and  did  find  the  arrangement  much  to  her  liking.  This 
is  what  I  call  an  accommodating  cuckold ! 

As  to  these  "knotted  strings"  spoken  of  above,  there 
was  lately  a  law  process  thereanent  in  the  Court  of  the 
Parliament  of  Paris,  between  the  Sieur  de  Bray,  High 
Treasurer,  and  his  wife,  to  whom  he  could  do  naught,  suf- 
fering as  he  did  from  this  or  other  like  defect,  for  which 
the  wife,  once  well  married,  did  call  him  to  account.  It 
was  ordered  by  the  Court  that  they  should  be  visited, 
the  two  of  them,  by  great  doctors  expert  in  these  matters. 
The  husband  did  choose  his,  and  the  wife  hers.  And  hereon 
was  writ  a  right  merry  sonnet  at  the  Court,  the  which 
a  great  lady  read  over  to  me  herself,  and  gave  me,  whenas 
I  was  dining  with  her.  'Twas  said  a  lady  had  writ  it, 
though  others  said  a  man.  Here  it  is : 

SONNET 

Entre  les  medecins  renommes  a  Paris 
En  scavoir,  en  espreuve,  en  science,  en  doctrine, 
Pour  juger  1'imparfait  de  la  coupe  androgine, 
Par  de  Bray  et  sa  femme  ont  este  sept  choisis, 
[89] 


IiZ^WSiygiyglgWWg!^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


De  Bray  a  eu  pour  lui  les  trois  de  moindre  prix, 
Le  Court,  1'Endormy,  Pietre:  et  sa  femme  plus  fine, 
Les  quatre  plus  experts  en  1'art  de  medecine, 
Le  Grand,  le  Gros,  Duret  et  Vigoureux  a  pris. 

On  peut  par  la  juger  qui  des  deux  gaignera, 
Et  si  le  Grand  du  Court  victorieux  sera, 
Vigoureux  d'Endormy,  le  Gros,  Duret,  de  Pietre. 

Et  de  Bray  n'ayant  point  ces  deux  de  son  coste, 
Estant  tant  imparfait  que  mari  le  peut  estre, 
A  faute  de  bon  droict  en  sera  deboute. 

(Among  all  the  great  doctors  of  Paris,  famed  for 
knowledge,  skill,  science  and  learning,  seven  were  chosen 
out  by  de  Bray  and  his  wife,  to  judge  of  the  defect  in  the 
cup  of  man  and  wife.  —  De  Bray  has  on  his  side  the  three 
of  lesser  price,  Le  Court,  1'Endormy,  Pietre  (Drs.  Short, 
Sleepy,  Puny)  ;  his  wife  has  been  cleverer  and  taken  Le 
Grand,  Le  Gros,  Duret  and  Vigoureux  (Drs.  Tall,  Stout, 
Hardy  and  Vigorous).  —  From  this  it  may  be  guessed 
which  of  the  pair  will  gain  the  day,  and  if  Le  Grand  will 
give  a  good  account  of  Le  Court,  Vigoureaux,  of  En- 
dormy,  Le  Gros  and  Duret  of  Pietre.  —  So  de  Bray  not 
having  these  two  on  his  side,  and  being  as  ill-dowered  as  a 
husband  can  well  be,  for  lack  of  a  good  case  will  surely 
be  nonsuited.) 

I  have  heard  speak  of  another  husband,  who  did  hold 
his  new-made  wife  in  his  arms  the  first  night;  and  she 
was  so  ravished  with  delight  and  pleasure  that  quite  for- 
getting herself  she  could  not  refrain  from  a  slight  turning 
and  twisting  and  mobile  action  of  the  body,  such  as  new 
wed  wives  are  scarce  wont  to  make.  At  this  he  said  naught 

[90] 


LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

mmmsBSRgsyaMiMiSsmaiM^ 

else,  but  only,  "Ha,  ha  !  I  know  now,"  and  went  on  his  way 
to  the  end.  These  be  our  cuckolds  in  embryo,  of  the  which 
I  could  tell  thousands  of  tales,  but  I  should  never  have 
done.  And  the  worst  thing  I  see  in  them  is  when  they 
wed  cow  and  calf  at  once,  as  the  saying  is,  and  take  them 
when  already  great  with  child.  Like  one  I  know,  who 
had  married  a  very  fair  and  honourable  damsel,  by  the 
favour  and  wish  of  their  Prince  and  feudal  Lord,  who  was 
much  attached  to  the  said  gentleman  and  had  made  the 
marriage.  But  at  the  end  of  a  week  it  became  known  she 
was  with  child,  and  she  did  actually  publish  it  abroad,  the 
better  to  play  her  part.  The  Prince,  who  had  always  sus- 
pected some  love-making  between  her  and  another,  said 
to  her,  "My  lady!  I  have  carefully  writ  down  on  my 
tablets  the  day  and  hour  of  your  marriage;  when  folk 
shall  set  these  against  the  time  of  your  bringing  to  bed, 
you  will  have  bitter  shame!"  But  she  at  this  word  only 
blushed  a  little,  and  did  naught  else  thereanent,  but  only 
kept  ever  the  mien  and  bearing  of  a  donna  da  ben  (vir- 
tuous lady). 

Then  again  there  are  some  daughters  which  do  so  fear 
their  father  and  mother  they  had  rather  lose  the  life  out  of 
their  bodies  than  their  maidenhood,  dreading  their  parents 
an  hundred  times  more  than  their  husbands. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  very  fair  and  honourable  dam- 
sel, who  being  sore  tempted  by  her  lover  to  take  her  pleas- 
ure of  his  love,  did  answer  "under  this  cloak  of  marriage 
which  doth  cover  all,  we  will  take  our  joy  with  a  right  good 
will." 

Another,  being  eagerly  sought  after  by  a  great  noble- 
man, she  said  to  him,  "Petition  our  Prince  and  put  some 
pressure  on  him,  that  he  wed  me  soon  to  him  that  is  now 

[91] 


r4Air/wr*w*w«w»w^iy*w«w^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


my  suitor,  and  let  me  quickly  make  good  my  marriage 
that  he  hath  promised  me.  The  day  after  my  wedding,  if 
we  meet  not  one  another,  why !  the  bargain  is  off !" 

I  know  a  lady  who  was  wooed  to  love  but  four  days 
before  her  bridal  by  a  gentleman,  and  kinsman  of  her 
husband;  yet  six  days  after  he  did  enjoy  his  will, — at 
any  rate  he  did  make  boast  to  the  effect.  Nor  was  it 
hard  to  believe,  for  they  did  show  such  familiarity  the 
one  to  the  other,  you  would  have  said  they  had  been 
brought  up  together  all  their  lives.  Moreover  he  did 
even  tell  sundry  signs  and  marks  she  had  on  her  body, 
and  further  that  they  did  continue  their  merry  sport  long 
while  after.  The  gentleman  always  declared  the  famil- 
iarity that  did  afford  them  opportunity  to  come  so  far 
was,  that  in  order  to  carry  out  a  masquerade  they  did 
change  clothes  with  one  another.  He  took  the  dress  of 
his  mistress  and  she  that  of  her  admirer,  whereat  the  hus- 
band did  nothing  but  laugh,  though  some  there  were  did 
find  occasion  to  blame  them  and  think  ill  of  the  thing. 
There  was  made  a  song  about  it  at  Court, — of  a  husband 
who  was  married  o'  Tuesday  and  cuckolded  o'  Thursday,  a 
fair  rate  of  progress  in  sooth! 

What  shall  we  say  of  another  damsel  who  was  long 
while  wooed  by  a  gentleman  of  a  good  house  and  rich,  but 
for  all  that  niggardly  and  not  worthy  of  her?  So  being 
hard  pressed  at  the  instance  of  her  family  to  marry  him, 
she  made  answer  she  had  liever  die  than  marry  him,  and 
that  he  should  be  spoken  thereof  to  her  or  to  her  kins- 
folk. For,  she  declared,  if  they  did  force  her  to  marry 
him,  she  would  only  make  him  cuckold.  But  for  all  that 
it  behooved  to  go  by  that  road,  for  so  was  she  constrained 
by  the  urgency  of  all  the  great  folk,  men  and  women,  who 

[92] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


had  influence  and  authority  over  her,  as  well  as  by  her 
kinsfolks'  orders. 

On  the  eve  of  her  bridal,  her  husband  seeing  her  all  sad 
and  pensive,  asked  her  what  ailed  her ;  and  she  did  answer 
him  angrily,  "You  would  never  believe  me,  and  be  per- 
suaded to  leave  off  your  pursuit  of  me.  You  know  what 
I  have  always  said,  that  if  ever  I  were  so  unfortunate  as 
to  become  your  wife,  I  would  make  you  cuckold.  And  I 
swear  I  will  do  so,  and  keep  my  word  to  you."  She  was 
in  no  wise  dainty  about  saying  the  same  before  sundry 
of  her  lady  companions  and  male  admirers.  Afterward 
rest  assured  she  was  as  good  as  her  word,  and  did 
show  him  she  was  a  good  and  true  woman,  for  that  she 
kept  her  promise  faithfully ! 

I  leave  you  to  judge  whether  she  is  to  be  blamed,  for  a 
man  once  warned  should  be  twice  careful,  and  she  did 
plainly  tell  him  the  ill  plight  he  would  fall  into.  So  why 
would  he  not  take  heed?  But  indeed  he  thought  little 
enough  of  what  she  said. 

These  maids  which  thus  let  themselves  go  astray 
straightway  after  being  married,  but  do  as  the  Italian 
proverb  saith:  Che  la  vacca,  che  e  stata  molto  tempo 
ligata,  corre  piu  che  quella  che  ha  havuto  sempre  piana 
libertd, — "The  cow  that  hath  been  long  tied  up,  runs  more 
wild  than  one  that  hath  ever  had  her  full  liberty."  Thus 
did  the  first  wife  of  Baldwyn,  King  of  Jerusalem,  whom 
I  have  spoken  of  before,  who  having  been  forced  to  take 
the  veil  by  her  husband,  brake  from  the  cloister  and 
escaped  out,  and  making  now  for  Constantinople,  behaved 
herself  in  such  wanton  wise  as  that  she  did  bestow  her 
favours  on  all  wayfarers  by  that  road,  whether  going  or 
coming,  as  well  men-at-arms  as  pilgrims  to  Jerusalem, 

[93] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

5B^mai!^i*yiii^it^^ 

without  heed  to  her  Royal  rank.  But  the  reason  was  the 
long  fast  she  had  had  therefrom  during  her  imprisonment. 

I  might  easily  name  many  other  such.  Well  \  they  are 
a  good  sort  of  cuckolds  these,  as  are  likewise  those  others 
which  suffer  their  wives'  unfaithfulness,  when  these  be  fair 
and  much  sought  after  for  their  beauty,  and  abandon  them 
to  it,  in  order  to  win  favour  for  themselves,  and  draw 
profit  and  wealth  therefrom.  Many  such  are  to  be  seen 
at  the  Courts  of  great  Kings  and  Princes,  the  which  do 
get  good  advantage  thereby;  for  from  poor  men  as  they 
were  aforetime,  whether  from  pledging  of  their  goods, 
or  by  some  process  of  law,  or  mayhap  through  the  cost 
of  warlike  expeditions,  they  be  brought  low,  are  they 
straight  raised  up  again  and  enriched  greatly  by  way  of 
their  good  wives'  trou.  Yet  do  they  find  no  diminution 
whatever  in  that  same  place,  but  rather  augmentation  \ 

Herein  was  the  case  different  with  a  very  fair  lady  I 
have  heard  tell  of,  for  that  she  had  lost  the  half  of  her 
affair  by  misadventure,  her  husband  having,  so  they  said, 
given  her  the  pox  which  had  eaten  it  away  for  her. 

Truly  the  favours  and  benefits  of  the  great  may  well 
shake  the  most  chaste  hearts,  and  are  cause  of  many  and 
many  a  cuckoldry.  And  hereanent  I  have  heard  the  tale 
related  of  a  foreign  Prince  8  who  was  appointed  General 
by  his  Sovereign  Prince  and  master  of  a  great  expedi- 
tion of  War  he  had  ordered  to  be  made,  and  left  his 
wife  behind,  one  of  the  fairest  ladies  in  all  Christendom, 
at  his  Master's  Court.  But  this  last  did  set  to  and  make 
suit  to  her  to  such  effect  that  he  very  soon  shook  and  laid 
low  her  resolve,  and  had  his  will  so  far  that  he  did  get 
her  with  child. 

The  husband,  returning  at  the  end  of  twelve  or  thirteen 

[94] 


BPWfflft'fflgSflff^BraigW^lff^S^^ 

LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


'W3V®i!$X£f3&}ii^l£^^ 


months,  doth  find  her  in  this  state,  and  though  sore 
grieved  and  very  wroth  against  her,  durst  not  ask  her 
the  how  and  why  of  it.  'Twas  for  her,  and  very  adroit 
she  was,  to  frame  her  excuses,  and  a  certain  brother-in- 
law  of  hers  to  help  her  out.  And  this-like  was  the  plea 
she  made  out :  "  'Tis  the  issue  of  your  campaign  that 
is  cause  of  this,  which  hath  been  taken  so  ill  by  your 
Master, — for  indeed  he  did  gain  little  profit  thereby.  So 
sorely  have  you  been  blamed  in  your  absence  for  that  you 
did  not  carry  out  his  behests  better,  that  had  not  your 
Lord  set  his  love  on  me,  you  had  verily  been  undone; 
and  so  to  save  you  from  undoing,  I  have  e'en  suffered 
myself  to  be  undone.  Your  honour  is  as  much  concerned 
as  mine  own,  and  more,  and  for  your  advancement  I 
have  not  spared  the  most  precious  thing  I  possess. 
Reflect  then  if  I  have  done  so  ill  as  you  might  say  at  first ; 
for  without  me,  your  life,  your  honour  and  favour  would 
all  have  been  risked.  You  are  in  better  case  than  ever, 
while  the  matter  is  not  so  public  that  the  stain  to  your 
repute  be  too  manifest.  Wherefore,  I  beseech  you  to 
excuse  and  forgive  me  for  that  I  have  done." 

The  brother-in-law,  who  was  of  the  best  at  a  specious 
tale,  and  who  mayhap  had  somewhat  to  do  with  the  lady's 
condition,  added  thereto  yet  other  good  and  weighty 
words,  so  that  at  the  last  all  ended  well.  Thus  was  peace 
made,  and  the  twain  were  of  better  accord  than  ever  liv- 
ing together  in  all  freedom  and  good  fellowship.  Yet, 
or  so  have  I  heard  tell,  did  the  Prince  theirjnaster,  the 
which  had  done  the  wrong  and  had  made  all  the  difficulty, 
never  esteem  him  so  highly  as  he  had  done  aforetime,  for 
having  taken  the  thing  so  mildly.  Never  after  did  he 
deem  him  a  man  of  such  high-souled  honour  as  he  had 

[95] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


thought  him  previously,  though  in  his  heart  of  hearts 
he  was  right  glad  the  poor  lady  had  not  to  suffer  for  the 
pleasure  she  had  given  him.  I  have  known  sundry,  both 
men  and  women,  ready  to  excuse  the  lady  in  question, 
and  to  hold  she  did  well  so  to  suffer  her  own  undoing 
in  order  to  save  her  husband  and  set  him  back  again  in 
his  Sovereign's  favour. 

Ah !  how  many  examples  are  to  be  found  to  match  this ; 
as  that  of  a  great  lady  who  did  save  her  husband's  life, 
the  which  had  been  condemned  to  death  in  full  Court, 
having  been  convicted  of  great  peculations  and  malversa- 
tions in  his  government  and  office.  For  which  thing  the 
husband  did  after  love  her  well  all  his  life. 

I  have  heard  speak  again  of  a  great  Lord,  who  had  been 
condemned  to  have  his  head  cut  off ;  but  lo !  he  being 
already  set  on  the  scaffold,  his  pardon  did  arrive,  the 
which  his  daughter,  one  of  the  fairest  of  women,4  had 
obtained.  Whereon,  being  come  down  off  the  scaffold, 
he  did  say  this  word,  and  naught  else  at  all:  "God  save 
my  girl's  good  motte,  which  hath  saved  my  life!" 

Saint  Augustine  doth  express  a  doubt  whether  a  certain 
citizen  of  Antioch,  a  Christian,  did  sin,  when  to  acquit  him 
of  a  heavy  sum  of  money  for  the  which  he  was  in  strict 
confinement,  he  gave  his  wife  leave  to  lie  with  a  gentleman 
of  greath  wealth,  who  undertook  to  free  him  from  his 
debt. 

If  such  is  the  opinion  of  Saint  Augustine,  what  would 
he  not  allow  to  many  women,  widows  and  maids,  who  to 
redeem  their  fathers,  kinsmen,  yea!  sometimes  their  hus- 
bands themselves,  do  surrender  their  gentle  body  under 
stress  of  many  and  sundry  trials  that  fall  to  their  lot,  as 
imprisonment,  enslavement,  peril  to  life  itself,  assaults 

[96] 


gffra!^^ 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

giiyiffiam^i'-^aiSaaa^^ 

and  takings  of  cities,  and  in  a  word  an  host  of  other  the 
like  incommodities.  Nay  !  sometimes  to  gain  over  captains 
and  soldiers,  to  cause  them  to  fight  stubbornly  and  hold 
their  ground,  or  to  sustain  a  siege  or  retake  a  place,  —  I 
could  recount  an  hundred  instances,  —  they  will  go  the 
length  of  fearlessly  prostituting  their  chastity  to  gain 
their  ends.  What  evil  report  or  scandal  can  come  to  them 
for  this?  None  surely,  but  rather  much  glory  and 
advantage. 

Who  then  will  deny  it  to  be  a  good  thing  on  occasion  to 
be  cuckold,  forasmuch  as  a  man  may  draw  therefrom  such 
advantages  in  the  way  of  life  saved  and  favour  regained,  of 
honour,  dignities  and  riches  ?  How  many  do  I  know  in  like 
case  ;  and  have  heard  speak  of  many  more  which  have  been 
advanced  by  the  beauty  and  bodies  of  their  wives  ! 

I  wish  not  to  offend  any,  but  I  will  take  upon  me  to  say 
this  much,  that  I  have  it  from  not  a  few,  both  men  and 
women,  how  ladies  have  served  their  mates  right  well,  and 
how  the  merits  of  some  of  them  have  not  availed  them  near 
so  much  as  their  wives'. 

I  know  a  great  lady  of  much  adroit  skill  who  got  the 
Order  of  St.  Michael  bestowed  on  her  husband,  he  being  at 
that  time  the  only  one  that  had  it  along  with  the  two 
greatest  Princes  of  Christendom.  She  would  oft  tell  him, 
and  say  out  the  same  before  everybody,  —  for  indeed  she 
was  of  merry  demeanour  and  excellent  company  :  "Ha,  ha  ! 
my  friend,  you  might  have  sweated  yourself  many  a  long 
day  before  you  got  this  pretty  bauble  to  hang  at  your 
neck!" 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  great  man,  in  the  days  of  King 
Francis,  who  having  received  the  Order,  and  being  fain  to 
make  boast  thereof  one  day  before  M.  de  la  Chastaigne- 

[97] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


raie,  my  uncle,  did  say  to  him :  "Ah !  how  glad  would  you 
be  to  have  this  Order  hanging  at  your  neck  like  me !"  My 
uncle,  who  was  ready  of  tongue  and  high  of  hand  and  hot- 
tempered,  if  ever  man  was,  straight  replied :  "I  had  rather 
be  dead  than  have  it  by  the  way  you  had  it  by!"  The 
other  answered  never  a  word,  for  he  knew  the  man  he  had 
to  deal  with. 

I  have  heard  the  story  told  of  a  great  Lord,  whose  wife 
had  begged  for  him  the  patent  appointing  him  to  one  of 
the  great  offices  of  his  district  and  did  bring  it  to  him  in  his 
house,  his  Prince  having  bestowed  it  upon  him  only  by 
favour  of  his  wife.  But  he  would  in  no  wise  accept  it, 
forasmuch  as  he  was  aware  his  wife  had  tarried  three 
months  with  the  Prince  in  high  favour,  and  not  without 
suspicions  of  something  worse.  Herein  he  did  manifest  the 
same  nobility  of  spirit  he  had  shown  all  his  life ;  yet  at  the 
last  he  did  take  it,  after  having  done  a  thing  I  had  rather 
not  name. 

And  this  is  how  fair  ladies  have  made  as  many  knights 
as  battles,  and  more, — the  which  I  would  name,  knowing 
their  names  as  well  as  another,  were  it  not  I  desired  to 
avoid  speaking  ill  of  any,  or  making  scandal.  And  if  they 
have  given  them  these  honours,  they  have  brought  them 
much  riches  as  well. 

I  know  one  who  was  but  a  poor  devil  when  he  first 
brought  his  wife  to  Court,  the  which  was  a  very  beautiful 
woman.  And  lo!  in  less  than  two  years  they  were  in 
good  ease  and  become  very  rich  folk. 


[98] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


9. 

JELL!  we  must  needs  think  highly  of  these 
ladies  which  do  thus  raise  their  husbands  in 
wealth  and  position,  and  make  them  cuckolds 
not  without  compensation.  Even  as  men  say 
of  Marguerite  de  Namur,  who  was  so  foolish  as  to 
bind  herself  and  give  all  ever  she  could  to  Louis,  Duke 
of  Orleans,  one  who  was  so  great  and  puissant  a  Lord 
already,  and  brother  to  the  King.  To  this  end  she  did 
get  from  her  husband  whatever  she  could,  till  at  the  last 
he  became  a  poor  man,  and  was  forced  to  sell  his  Earl- 
dom of  Blois  to  the  said  M.  d'Orleans.  And  this  latter, 
— to  think  of  it ! — did  pay  him  therefore  in  the  very  same 
coin  and  goods  the  man's  infatuate  wife  had  given  him. 
Foolish  indeed  she  was,  for  that  she  was  giving  to  one 
greater  than  herself.  And  to  think  that  he  did  laugh  at 
the  pair  of  them,  for  in  good  sooth  he  was  the  very  man 
so  to  do,  so  fickle  was  he  and  inconstant  in  love. 

I  know  a  great  lady  who,  having  fallen  deep  in  love  with 
a  gentleman  of  the  Court,  did  accordingly  suffer  him  to 
have  his  joy  of  her.  And  not  being  able  to  give  him 
money,  seeing  her  husband  ever  kept  his  hoard  hid  like 
a  priest,  did  give  him  the  greater  part  of  her  precious 
stones,  the  which  did  mount  up  to  a  value  of  thirty  thou- 
sand crowns.  Whence  men  said  at  Court  he  might  well 
begin  to  build  now,  since  he  had  plenty  of  stones  laid  up 
and  stored  away.  Soon  afterward,  being  come  into  a 
great  inheritance  and  having  put  her  hand  on  some 
twenty  thousand  crowns,  she  scarce  kept  any  thereof,  but 
her  lover  did  enjoy  the  greater  part.  And  'twas  said 
that  if  this  inheritance  had  not  fallen  in  to  her,  not 

[99] 


»fifflfgsfsi?rffl?^^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

knowing  what  else  she  could  give  him,  she  would  have  given 
him  the  very  clothes  off  her  body  down  to  her  shift  itself. 
Wherein  are  suchlike  scamps  and  scorners  greatly  to 
blame  so  to  set  about  it  and  distil  and  draw  off  all  the 
substance  of  these  poor  creatures,  so  hot-headed  and 
infatuate  with  passion  and  caprice.  For  their  purse, 
being  so  oft  visited,  cannot  stay  always  swelled  out  and 
at  its  full  capacity,  like  the  purse  in  front,  which  is 
ever  in  the  same  condition,  and  ever  ready  for  whosoever 
wills  to  fish  therein,  without  the  captives  that  have  en- 
tered and  come  forth  again  of  the  same  finding  a  word 
to  say  against  it.  This  worthy  gentleman,  whom  I  spoke 
of  as  so  well  stocked  with  stones,  came  some  time  after 
to  die.  Then  did  all  his  effects,  as  is  the  way  at  Paris, 
come  to  be  cried  and  sold  at  public  auction,  and  so  were 
in  this  wise  reckoned  up  and  known  by  many  persons 
as  having  belonged  to  the  lady,  not  without  bitter  and 
deep  shame  to  the  same. 

There  was  a  great  Prince  who  loving  a  very  honourable 
lady,  did  purchase  a  dozen  diamond  studs,  brilliants  of 
the  first  water  and  admirably  set,  with  their  Egyptian 
letters  and  hieroglyphics,  containing  a  secret  and  cabalis- 
tic meaning,  the  which  he  did  make  a  present  of  to  his 
mistress.  But  she  after  looking  at  the  same  attentively, 
said  to  him  that  at  present  she  found  no  need  of  hiero- 
glyphic lettering,  forasmuch  as  the  writings  were  already 
done  and  accomplished  between  them  twain,  even  as  they 
had  been  between  the  gentleman  and  the  fair  lady  spoken 
of  just  above. 

I  knew  once  a  lady  who  was  forever  saying  to  her 
husband,  how  she  had  rather  make  him  criminal  than 
cuckold.  But  truly  the  two  words  are  something  equivo- 

[100] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ggy^WiByflMlMlMIMIigS^ 

cal,  and  mayhap  more  or  less  of  both  of  these  fine  qualities 
mated  together  in  her  and  in  her  husband. 

Yet  I  have  known  well  plenty  of  fair  ladies  that  have 
not  done  so  at  all.  Rather  have  they  kept  the  purse  of 
their  crown-pieces  far  tighter  drawn  than  that  of  their 
fair  body.  For,  albeit  very  great  ladies,  never  would 
they  be  giving  but  a  ring  or  two,  a  few  favours  and  such 
other  little  compliments,  muffs  or  scarfs,  to  wear  for 
love  of  them  to  enhance  their  repute. 

Yet  have  I  known  one  very  great  lady1  which  was 
exceeding  free  and  generous  herein,  for  the  least  of  her 
scarfs  and  the  favours  she  was  used  to  give  her  lovers 
was  worth  five  hundred  crowns,  a  thousand  crowns,  or 
even  three,  whereon  was  such  abundance  of  embroidery, 
and  pearls,  and  cyphers,  and  cabalistic  letters  and  pretty 
conceits,  nothing  in  all  this  world  ever  was  richer  and 
rarer  to  look  on.  And  she  was  right;  for  so  her  gifts, 
once  made,  were  not  hid  away  in  chests  or  in  purses,  like 
those  of  many  other  dames,  but  were  displayed  before  all 
men.  For  she  deemed  that  her  friends  did  manifest  their 
worth  looking  at  them  and  showing  them  as  tokens  of  her 
regard,  whereas  such  presents  when  made  in  coin  did 
smack  rather  of  common  women  that  give  money  to  their 
bullies  than  of  high-born  and  honourable  ladies.  Some- 
times again  she  would  give  beautiful  rings  of  rich  jewel- 
work,  forasmuch  as  favours  and  scarfs  are  not  ordinarily 
worn,  but  only  on  some  great  and  high  emprise,  whereas 
a  ring  on  the  finger  keeps  better  company  and  more  con- 
stant with  the  wearer. 

Though,  verily,  a  gentle  and  noble-hearted  knight 
should  be  of  this  generous  complexion  that  he  had  rather 
serve  his  lady  for  the  beauties  which  do  make  her  shine 

[101] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


resplendent  than  for  all  the  shining  gold  and  silver  she 
may  have. 

For  myself,  I  can  boast  of  having  served  in  my  day 
honourable  ladies,  and  those  of  no  low  estate.  But  truly 
if  I  had  been  willing  to  take  all  they  gave  me  and  extract 
from  their  generosity  all  I  might  have  had,  why,  I  should 
be  a  richer  man  to-day,  whether  in  goods  or  money  or 
plenishing,  than  I  am  by  a  good  thirty  thousand  crowns ; 
yet  have  I  alway  been  content  to  make  evident  my  love 
rather  by  my  generosity  than  by  my  avariciousness. 

Without  doubt  there  is  good  reason  for  it,  that  inas- 
much as  the  man  doth  put  somewhat  of  his  own  into  the 
purse  the  woman  hath,  the  woman  should  likewise  put 
something  of  hers  in  the  man's.  Yet  herein  must  due  pro- 
portion be  kept;  for  just  as  the  man  cannot  cast  in  and 
give  as  much  of  his  into  the  woman's  purse  as  she  would 
fain  have,  so  is  the  man  bound  in  fairness  not  to  draw 
from  that  of  the  woman  all  he  would.  The  law  of  give 
and  take  must  needs  be  observed  and  proper  measure 
kept. 

I  have  moreover  before  now  seen  many  gentlemen  lose 
the  love  of  their  mistresses  by  reason  of  the  importunity 
of  their  demands  and  their  inordinate  rapacity.  For 
these,  seeing  them  such  beggars  and  so  eager  to  have  their 
pay,  have  quietly  broke  off  the  connexion  and  left  them  in 
the  lurch,  and  that  notwithstanding  the  excellent  service 
rendered. 

Wherefore  it  is  that  every  noble-minded  lover  were  bet- 
ter to  be  guilty  of  greed  for  his  lady's  body  than  for  her 
money;  because  supposing  the  lady  to  be  over  generous 
of  her  goods,  the  husband  finding  his  property  lessening 

[102] 


ggw^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


apace,  is  more  angered  thereat  ten  times  over  than  at  a 
thousand  largesses  she  may  have  made  of  her  person. 

Further,  some  cuckolds  there  be  that  are  made  such  in 
the  way  of  revenge.  I  mean  that  often  men  who  have  a 
grudge  against  some  great  Lord  or  gentleman  or  other 
person,  from  the  which  they  have  received  injuries  and 
affronts,  do  avenge  their  wrongs  on  them  by  making  love 
to  their  wives,  whom  they  do  debauch  and  make  fine 
cuckolds  of  their  enemies. 

I  knew  once  a  great  Prince  who  had  suffered  from  sun- 
dry attempts  at  rebellion  on  the  part  of  one  of  his 
subjects,  a  great  Lord,  yet  was  all  unable  to  revenge 
himself,  seeing  the  offender  did  all  he  could  to  escape  him, 
so  that  the  Prince  could  never  lay  hands  on  him.  However, 
his  wife  having  one  day  come  to  Court  to  solicit  her 
husband's  pardon  and  the  better  ordering  of  his  case,  the 
Prince  did  appoint  with  her  to  meet  him  to  confer  thereof 
in  a  garden  and  a  chamber  adjoining  it.  But  it  was  really 
to  talk  of  love  to  her,  wherein  he  won  his  triumph  on  the 
spot,  without  much  ado,  for  she  was  of  very  accommo- 
dating character.  Nor  did  he  content  himself  with  having 
her  in  his  proper  person,  but  did  likewise  prostitute  her 
to  others,  down  to  the  very  footmen  of  the  chambers.  And 
in  this  wise  would  the  Prince  declare  he  did  feel  himself 
well  revenged  on  his  unfaithful  subject,  having  so  de- 
bauched his  wife  and  crowned  his  head  with  a  good  coronal 
of  horns.  Albeit  but  a  subject,  he  had  been  fain  to  play 
petty  king  and  sovereign  ;  but  instead  of  winning  a  regal 
crown  of  fleurs-de-lis,  he  had  gotten  himself  a  fine  one  of 
horns  !  2 

This  same  Prince  did  a  like  thing  in  another  case  at  the 
instigation  of  his  mother,  for  he  did  debauch  a  Princess 

[103] 


B^J^ff^l^lff^^Slff^l^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

BiiafflH^liSma^!^^ 

that  was  a  maid,  well  knowing  she  was  to  wed  a  certain 
Prince  who  had  done  him  displeasure  and  sore  troubled 
his  brother's  government.  Thus  he  did  deflower  her  and 
had  his  will  of  her  finely;  yet  after  two  months  was  she 
delivered  to  the  poor  Prince  as  a  virgin  and  to  be  his 
wife.  The  revenge  herefor  was  of  the  mildest, — pending 
other  action  that  did  ensue  later,  of  a  harsh  and  violent 
enough  sort.8 

I  knew  once  a  very  honourable  gentleman  who,  being 
lover  of  a  fair  lady  and  one  of  good  belongings,  did  ask 
her  for  the  recompense  of  his  long  love  and  courtship; 
but  she  answered  frankly,  she  would  not  give  him  so  much 
as  a  single  doit's  worth,  seeing  she  was  quite  assured  he 
loved  her  not  for  this,  and  bare  her  not  such  fond  affec- 
tion for  her  beauty's  sake,  as  he  alleged.  His  wish  was 
rather,  by  having  his  will  of  her,  to  avenge  himself  on  her 
husband,  who  had  done  him  some  displeasure;  wherefore 
he  was  fain  to  win  this  consolation  to  his  pride  and  to 
feel  for  the  future  he  had  had  the  upper  hand.  But  the 
gentleman,  assuring  her  of  the  contrary,  continued  to 
court  her  humbly  for  more  than  two  years  longer,  and  this 
so  faithfully  and  with  such  passion,  that  at  the  last  she 
did  show  such  ample  and  full  gratitude  that  she  did  grant 
him  all  she  had  before  refused,  declaring  that  had  she  not, 
at  the  first  beginning  of  their  courtship,  supposed  some 
idea  of  vengeance  intended  to  be  in  his  mind,  she  would 
immediately  have  made  him  as  happy  a  man  as  she  now 
did  at  the  end,  for  that  her  natural  bent  was  to  love  and 
prefer  him.  Note  how  the  lady  was  able  wisely  to  com- 
mand her  passion  so  that  love  did  never  carry  her  away 
to  do  what  all  the  while  she  did  most  desire,  for  that  she 

[104] 


gaffwffiffwgi?raigw%^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

wished  to  be  loved  for  her  own  sake  and  not  merely  as  a 
means  to  a  man's  vengeance  on  another. 

The  late  M.  du  Gua,  one  of  the  truly  gallant  and  per- 
fect gentlemen  of  the  world  in  every  way,  did  invite  me 
to  the  Court  one  day  to  dine  with  him.  He  had  brought 
together  a  dozen  of  the  most  learned  men  of  the  Court, 
amongst  others  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Dol,4  of  the  house  of 
Espinay  in  Brittany,  MM.  de  Ronsard,  de  Baif,  Des 
Fortes,  d'Aubigny  (the  last  two  are  still  living,  and  could 
contradict  me,  if  I  lie),  and  others  whose  names  I  forget. 
Amongst  them  all  was  no  man  of  the  sword  but  only  M.  du 
Gua  and  myself.  The  discourse  during  dinner  turned  on 
love,  and  the  commodities  and  incommodities,  pleasures 
and  displeasures,  good  and  ill,  it  brought  in  its  train. 
After  each  guest  had  declared  his  opinion  on  the  one  side 
or  the  other,  himself  did  conclude  that  the  sovereign  good 
of  its  gratification  lay  in  this  vengeance  it  made  possible, 
and  prayed  each  of  all  these  great  personages  to  make  a 
quatrain  thereon  impromptu.  This  they  all  did,  and  I 
would  I  had  them  to  insert  here ;  but  his  Lordship  of  Dol, 
whose  words  were  true  gold,  whether  spoke  or  writ,  did 
bear  off  the  prize. 

And  doubtless  M.  du  Gua  had  good  reason  to  maintain 
this  view,  as  against  two  great  Lords  of  my  acquaintance, 
whom  he  did  cause  to  wear  the  horns  for  the  hatred  he 
bare  them.  Their  wives  were  very  fair  women,  so  in  this 
case  he  did  win  double  pleasures,  satisfaction  of  his  ven- 
geance and  gratification  of  his  passions.  Many  other 
folk  have  so  revenged  themselves  and  taken  delight  herein, 
and  accordingly  have  shared  in  the  same  opinion. 

Moreover  I  have  known  many  fair  and  honourable 
ladies,  who  did  say  and  affirm  that,  when  their  husbands 

[105] 


BZW^li'fiaffWWWWftffrgffrW^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


had  maltreated  or  bullied  them,  rated  or  censured  them, 
beat  them  or  otherwise  ill-used  and  outraged  them,  their 
greatest  joy  and  delight  was  to  give  them  a  pair  of  horns, 
and  in  the  act,  to  think  of  them,  and  scoff  and  mock  and 
make  fun  of  them  with  their  paramours,  going  so  far  as 
to  declare  they  did  hereby  have  a  greater  access  of  appe- 
tite and  sure  delight  of  pleasure  than  could  well  be  de- 
scribed. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  fair  and  honourable  lady  who, 
being  asked  once  if  ever  she  had  made  her  husband  cuck- 
old, did  make  answer,  "Nay !  why  should  I  have  made  him 
so,  seeing  he  hath  never  beat  nor  even  threatened  me?" 
As  though  implying  that,  if  he  had  done  either  one  or  the 
other,  her  champion  that  she  had  in  front  would  very 
soon  have  revenged  her. 

And  speaking  of  wit  and  mockery,  I  once  knew  a  very 
honourable  and  fair  lady  who,  being  in  these  gentle  trans- 
ports of  pleasure,  did  chance  by  dint  of  her  wild  caresses 
to  break  an  earring  she  had  in  the  shape  of  a  cornucopia, 
which  was  but  of  black  glass,  such  as  were  worn  in  those 
days.  Whereupon  she  cried  instantly  to  her  lover,  "Look 
you,  how  provident  Dame  Nature  is ;  I  have  broken  one 
horn,  but  here  I  am  making  a  dozen  others  for  my  poor 
cuckold  of  a  husband,  to  bedeck  him  withal  some  fine  feast- 
day,  if  he  so  will." 

Another,  having  left  her  husband  a-bed  and  asleep,  went 
to  see  her  lover  before  lying  down  herself.  Then  asked 
he  her  where  her  husband  was,  and  she  did  reply,  "He  is 
keeping  his  bed,  guarding  his  cuckoo's  nest  for  fear 
another  come  to  lay  therein.  But  'tis  not  with  his  bed, 
nor  his  sheets,  nor  his  nest  you  have  to  do,  but  with  me, 

[106] 


*ir^ 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

'^iiiya&flijgniyfli^^ 

who  am  come  to  see  you.  I  have  left  him  there  as  sentinel, 
though  truly  he  is  but  a  sleepy  one." 

Talking  of  sentinels,  I  have  heard  a  tale  told  of  a  cer- 
tain gentleman  of  consideration,  whom  I  well  knew,  who 
one  day  coming  to  words  with  a  very  honourable  lady, 
whom  also  I  knew,  he  did  ask  her,  by  way  of  insult,  if  she 
had  ever  gone  on  pilgrimage  to  Saint  Mathurin.5  "Oh, 
yes !"  she  replied,  "but  I  could  never  get  into  the  Church, 
for  so  full  and  so  well  occupied  was  it  with  cuckolds,  they 
would  never  suffer  me  to  enter.  And  you,  who  were  one 
of  the  foremost,  were  mounted  on  the  steeple,  to  act  sen- 
tinel and  warn  the  others." 

I  could  tell  a  thousand  other  such  tales,  but  I  should 
never  have  done.  Yet  do  I  hope  to  find  room  for  some  of 
them  in  some  corner  or  other  of  my  book. 


10. 


|OME  cuckolds  there  be  which  are  good-natured 
and  which  of  their  own  impulse  do  invite 
themselves  to  this  feast  of  cuckoldry.  Thus 
I  have  known  some  who  would  say  to  their 
wives,  "Such  and  such  an  one  is  in  love  with  you ;  I  know 
him  well,  and  he  often  cometh  to  visit  us,  but  'tis  for  love 
of  you,  my  pretty.  Give  him  good  welcome;  he  can  do 
us  much  pleasure,  his  acquaintance  may  advantage  us 
greatly." 

Others  again  will  say  to  their  wives'  admirers,  "My  wife 
is  in  love  with  you,  and  right  fond  of  you.  Come  and  see 
her,  you  will  give  her  pleasure;  you  can  chat  and  hold 
discourse  together,  and  pass  the  time  agreeably."  So  do 
they  invite  folk  to  feast  at  their  expense.  As  did  the 

[107] 


firffl?^ff^^l?^11>fffl?^tf?^^s?ra 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

giMiMiMgyaMiMiMB^aMiMi^^ 

Emperor  Hadrian,1  who  being  one  time  in  Britain  (as 
we  read  in  his  Life),  carrying  on  War  there,  did  receive 
sundry  warnings,  how  that  his  wife,  the  Empress  Sabina, 
was  making  unbridled  love  with  a  number  of  gallant  Ro- 
man noblemen.  As  fate  would  have  it,  she  had  writ  and 
despatched  a  letter  from  Rome  to  a  certain  young  Ro- 
man gentleman  who  was  with  the  Emperor  in  Britain, 
complaining  that  he  had  forgot  her,  and  took  no  more 
account  of  her,  and  that  it  must  needs  be  he  had  some 
intrigue  in  that  region  and  that  some  affected  little 
wanton  had  caught  him  in  the  lakes  of  her  beauty.  This 
letter  fell  by  chance  into  the  Emperor's  hands ;  and  when 
the  nobleman  in  question  did  some  days  after  ask  leave 
of  absence  under  colour  of  wishing  to  go  to  Rome  imme- 
diately for  family  affairs  of  his  own,  Hadrian  said  to  him 
in  mocking  wise,  "Well,  well!  young  sir,  go  there, — and 
boldly,  for  the  Empress,  my  wife,  is  expecting  you  in  all 
affection."  But  the  Roman  hearing  this,  and  finding  the 
Emperor  had  discovered  his  secret  and  might  likely  play 
him  some  ill  turn,  started  the  very  next  night,  without 
saying  by  your  leave  or  with  your  leave,  and  took  refuge 
in  Ireland. 

Still  he  had  no  need  to  be  greatly  afraid  for  all  this. 
Indeed  the  Emperor  himself  would  often  say,  being  re- 
galed continually  with  tales  of  the  extravagant  love  af- 
fairs of  his  wife,  "Why,  certainly,  were  I  not  Emperor,  I 
should  have  long  ago  rid  me  of  my  wife ;  but  I  desire  not 
to  show  an  evil  example."  As  much  as  to  say,  it  matters 
not  to  the  great  to  be  in  this  case,  so  long  as  they  let  it 
not  be  known  publicly.  And  what  a  fate  for  great  men, — 
one  which  truly  some  of  them  have  consented  to,  though 

[108] 


K^r^jlff^iyglff^fflrai??^!?^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a^i^tytiiy^i^i&ai^^ 

not  for  the  same  reason!     So  we  see  this  good  Emperor 
suffering  himself  complacently  to  be  made  cuckold. 

Another  good  Emperor,  Marcus  Aurelius,2  who  had  as 
wife  Faustina,  a  downright  harlot,  replied  on  being  ad- 
vised to  put  her  away,  "If  we  give  her  up,  we  are  bound 
also  to  give  up  her  dowry,  which  is  the  Empire."  And 
who  would  not  be  cuckold  like  him  for  such  a  prize,  or 
even  a  less  one? 

His  son,  Antonius  Verus,  surnamed  Commodus,  though 
he  grew  up  very  cruel,  yet  held  the  like  language  to  such 
as  advised  him  to  have  the  said  Faustina,  his  mother,  put 
to  death.  So  madly  in  love  was  she  and  so  hot  after  a 
gladiator  that  she  could  never  be  cured  of  the  fierce  mal- 
ady, till  at  last  they  bethought  them  to  kill  the  rascally 
gladiator  and  make  her  drink  his  blood. 

Many  and  many  a  husband  hath  done  and  doth  the 
same  as  the  good  Marcus  Aurelius,  for  they  do  fear  to 
kill  their  wives,  whores  though  they  be,  for  dread  of  losing 
the  great  fortunes  they  have  of  them,  and  had  rather  be 
rich  cuckolds  on  these  easy  terms  than  cruel  villains. 

Heavens!  how  many  of  the  sort  have  I  known,  who 
were  forever  inviting  their  kinsmen  and  friends  and  com- 
rades to  come  and  visit  their  wives,  going  so  far  as  to 
make  banquets  for  them,  the  better  to  attract  them. 
Then,  when  they  were  there,  they  would  leave  them  alone 
with  the  lady  in  bedchamber  or  closet,  and  so  away,  with 
the  words,  "I  leave  my  wife  in  your  care." 

One  I  knew,  a  nobleman  of  the  great  world,  of  such 
behaviour  you  would  have  said  his  whole  happiness  did 
rest  in  this  only,  to  be  cuckolded.  He  seemed  to  make 
it  his  study  to  give  opportunities  therefor,  and  especially 
never  forgot  to  say  this  first  word,  "My  wife  is  in  love 

[109] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


with  you ;  do  you  love  her  as  well  as  she  loves  you,  I  won- 
der?" Many  a  time  when  he  saw  his  wife  with  her  ad- 
mirer, he  would  carry  off  the  company  from  the  room  to 
take  a  walk,  leaving  the  twain  of  them  together,  so  giv- 
ing them  good  leisure  to  discuss  their  loves.  And  if  by 
any  chance  he  had  to  return  of  a  sudden  into  the  room, 
from  the  very  bottom  step  of  the  stairs  he  would  begin 
shouting  aloud,  calling  after  someone,  spitting  or  cough- 
ing, to  the  end  he  might  not  catch  the  lovers  in  the  act. 
For  commonly,  even  though  one  know  of  them  and  suspect 
their  coming,  these  peeps  and  surprises  are  scarce  pleas- 
ant whether  to  the  one  party  or  the  other. 

This  same  Lord  was  having  a  fine  mansion  built  one 
time,  and  the  master  mason  having  asked  whether  he 
would  not  have  the  cornices  ftorn-amented,  he  made  an- 
swer, "I  don't  know  what  ^ornamentation  means.  Go  and 
ask  my  wife  who  understands  the  thing,  and  knows  geom- 
etry; and  whatever  she  tells  you  to  do,  do  it." 

Still  worse  was  it  with  one  I  know  of,  who  one  day 
selling  one  of  his  estates  to  a  purchaser  for  fifty  thousand 
crowns,  did  take  forty-five  thousand  of  the  sum  in  gold 
and  silver,  and  in  lieu  of  the  remaining  five  accepted  a 
unicorn's  horn.  Huge  laughter  amid  them  that  knew 
him ;  "Ha,  ha !"  they  said,  "as  if  he  had  not  enough  horns 
at  home  already,  that  he  must  fit  in  this  one  to  boot." 

I  knew  a  very  great  Lord,  a  brave  and  gallant  man, 
who  did  greet  a  certain  honourable  gentleman  and  profess 
himself  his  very  good  servant,  yet  adding  with  a  smile 
these  words,  "My  dear  Sir,  I  know  not  what  you  have  done 
to  my  wife,  but  she  is  so  much  in  love  with  you  that  day 
and  night  she  doth  nothing  but  speak  to  me  of  you,  and 
is  forever  singing  your  praises.  For  all  answer  I  tell 

[110] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

gB^ajMajyaa^BMi^^ 

her  I  have  known  you  longer  than  she  hath,  and  am  well 
aware  of  your  worth  and  deserts,  which  are  great."  Who 
more  astonished  than  this  same  gentleman?  for  he  had 
but  just  taken  in  this  lady  on  his  arm  to  Vespers,  which 
the  Queen  was  attending,  and  that  was  all.  However,  he 
at  once  regained  his  countenance  and  replied,  "Sir!  I  am 
your  wife's  most  humble  servant,  and  deeply  grateful  for 
the  good  opinion  she  hath  of  me,  and  do  greatly  respect 
her.  Yet  do  I  not  make  love  to  her,"  he  went  on  in  a 
merry  tone.  "All  I  do  is  to  pay  her  my  court,  herein 
following  the  good  advice  yourself  gave  me  quite  lately, 
seeing  she  hath  much  influence  with  my  mistress,  whom  I 
may  be  enabled  to  wed  by  her  help,  and  therefore  do  hope 
she  will  give  me  her  assistance." 

The  Prince  had  no  suspicion  and  did  naught  but  laugh 
and  admonish  the  gentleman  to  court  his  wife  more  assid- 
uously than  ever.  This  he  did,  being  right  glad  under 
this  pretext  to  be  lover  to  so  fair  a  lady  and  so  great  a 
Princess,  who  soon  made  him  forget  his  other  mistress 
he  had  been  fain  to  wed,  and  scarce  to  think  of  her  again, 
except  to  find  her  a  convenient  mask  to  dissemble  and  cover 
up  the  whole  thing  withal.  Even  so  could  the  Prince  not 
help  but  feel  some  pangs  of  jealousy  when  one  day  he  did 
see  the  said  gentleman  in  the  Queen's  chamber  wearing  on 
his  arm  a  ribband  of  Spanish  scarlet,  which  had  just  been 
brought  to  Court  as  a  fine  novelty,  and  which  he  did  touch 
and  handle  as  he  talked  with  him;  then  going  to  find  his 
wife  who  was  by  the  Queen's  bedside,  lo  !  he  saw  she  had 
one  that  was  its  very  match,  which  he  did  likewise  touch 
and  handle  and  proved  it  to  be  like  it  in  all  respects  and 
part  of  the  same  piece  as  the  other.  Yet  did  he  breathe 
never  a  word,  nor  take  any  steps  in  the  matter.  And 

[111] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

aiiytijyiiiyiiiyiiiisfli&a}^^ 

indeed  in  such  intrigues  it  is  very  needful  to  cover  up 
their  fires  with  such  cinders  of  discretion  and  good  coun- 
sel as  that  they  may  never  be  discovered;  for  very  oft 
such  discovery  of  the  scandal  will  anger  husbands  far 
more  against  their  wives  than  when  the  same  is  done,  but 
all  in  secret,  —  herein  illustrating  the  proverb,  Si  non 
caste,  tamen  caute,  —  "If  not  with  virtue,  at  any  rate  with 
prudence." 

What  terrible  scandals  and  great  incommodities  have 
I  seen  in  my  time  arise  from  the  indiscretions  of  ladies 
and  their  lovers  !  Yet  would  the  husbands  have  cared 
naught  at  all  about  the  thing,  if  only  they  had  done  their 
doings  sotto  coperte  (under  cover,  under  the  rose),  as 
the  saying  is,  and  the  matter  had  never  seen  the  light. 

I  knew  one  dame  who  was  all  for  manifesting  quite 
openly  her  loves  and  preferences,  which  she  did  indulge  as 
if  she  had  had  no  husband  at  all,  and  had  been  her  own 
mistress  entirely,  refusing  to  listen  to  the  counsels  of  her 
friends  and  lovers,  who  did  remonstrate  with  her  and 
point  out  the  inconveniences  she  was  exposing  herself  to. 
And  of  these  she  did  later  reap  a  sore  harvest  ! 

This  lady  did  otherwise  than  many  worthy  dames  have 
done  at  all  times,  who  have  gaily  enjoyed  love  and  lived  a 
merry  life,  yet  have  never  given  much  evidence  thereof  to 
the  world,  except  mayhap  some  small  suspicions,  that 
could  scarce  have  revealed  the  truth  even  to  the  most 
clear-sighted.  For  they  would  address  their  lovers  in 
public  so  dexterously,  and  deal  with  them  so  adroitly,  that 
neither  husbands  nor  spies,  all  their  life  long,  could  ever 
get  aught  to  bite  at.  And  when  their  favourites  departed 
on  some  journey,  or  came  to  die,  they  would  dissemble 

[112] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


y^i^i^i^^^jiv»yjt^t^^i^!x^^ 


and  conceal  their  grief  so  cunningly  that  none  ever  dis- 
covered aught. 

I  knew  a  fair  and  honourable  lady,  who  the  day  a  cer- 
tain great  Lord,  her  lover,  died,  did  appear  in  the  Queen's 
chamber  with  a  countenance  as  gay  and  smiling  as  the 
day  before.  Some  did  think  highly  of  her  for  such  dis- 
cretion, deeming  she  did  so  for  fear  of  doing  the  King  dis- 
pleasure and  angering  him,  for  that  he  liked  not  the  man 
deceased.  Others  blamed  her,  attributing  this  bearing 
rather  to  the  lack  of  true  love,  wherein  'twas  said  she  was 
but  poorly  furnished,  like  all  women  who  lead  the  life 
she  did. 

I  knew  on  the  other  hand  two  fair  and  honourable  ladies, 
who  having  lost  their  lovers  in  a  misadventure  of  war,  did 
make  great  sorrow  and  lamentation,  and  did  make  mani- 
fest their  mourning  by  their  dusky  weeds,  and  eke  holy- 
water  vessels  and  sprinklers  of  gold  engraven  with  fig- 
ures, and  death's-heads,  and  all  kinds  of  trophies  of  dis- 
solution, in  their  trinkets,  jewels  and  bracelets  which  they 
wear.  All  this  did  bring  much  scandal  upon  them  and 
was  greatly  to  their  hurt ;  though  their  husbands  did  take 
no  special  heed  thereof. 

This  is  how  these  ladies  do  themselves  hurt  by  the 
making  public  their  amours ;  these  we  may  rightly  praise 
and  esteem  for  their  constancy,  though  not  for  their  dis- 
cretion, for  on  this  last  count  what  they  do  is  much  to 
their  disadvantage. 

And  if  ladies  so  doing  are  blameworthy,  there  be  many 
likewise  among  their  lovers  which  do  deserve  reprimand 
quite  as  much  as  they.  For  they  will  ever  be  putting  on 
looks  as  they  were  half  dead,  like  she-goats  in  kid,  and 
a  most  languorous  mien,  making  eyes  and  casting  ap- 

[113] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

HBi^lfegKgafeflBytl&gH^^ 

pealing  glances,  indulging  in  passionate  gestures  and  love- 
sick sighs  in  company,  openly  bedecking  themselves  with 
their  ladies'  colours,-  —  in  a  word  giving  way  to  so  many 
silly  indiscretions  that  a  blind  man  could  scarce  fail  to 
note  them.  Some  of  them  moreover  do  the  like  more  in 
pretence  than  in  reality,  desiring  to  let  all  the  Court 
understand  they  are  in  love  in  an  high  quarter,  and  are 
happy  in  their  amours.  Whereas,  God  wot,  it  may  well 
be  the  ladies  would  not  give  them  so  much  as  one  poor 
farthing  in  alms,  to  save  their  repute  for  deeds  of  charity  ! 

I  do  know  well  a  certain  nobleman  and  great  Lord,  who 
desiring  to  satisfy  the  world  he  was  the  lover  of  a  fair 
and  honourable  lady  that  I  know  of,  had  his  little  mule 
held  in  front  of  her  door,  with  a  couple  of  his  lackeys  and 
pages.  As  it  fell  out,  M.  d'Estrozze  and  myself  did  pass 
that  way,  and  beheld  this  mystery  of  the  mule  and  the 
man's  pages  and  lackeys.  He  asked  instantly  where  was 
their  master,  and  they  replied  he  was  within,  in  the  lady's 
house.  Hereupon  M.  d'Estrozze  burst  out  a-laughing, 
and  turning  to  me,  said  he  would  wager  his  life  he  was 
not  there  at  all.  And  in  a  moment  after  he  posted  his 
page  as  sentinel  to  watch  if  the  pretended  lover  should 
come  forth;  then  quickly  we  hied  us  to  the  Queen's  cham- 
ber, where  we  found  our  man,  —  not  without  some  laughter 
betwixt  him  and  me. 

Then  towards  evening  we  went  to  greet  him,  and  pre- 
tending to  quarrel  with  him,  did  ask  him  where  he  was  at 
such  and  such  an  hour  of  the  afternoon,  and  how  that  he 
could  not  deceive  us,  as  we  had  seen  his  mule  and  his 
pages  before  the  said  lady's  door.  But  the  fellow,  mak- 
ing as  though  he  were  vexed  we  had  seen  so  much  and  were 
for  this  cause  attacking  him  for  carrying  out  an  intrigue 

[114] 


ffigfflg^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ai^amaMa&i^^K^^ 

in  this  high  quarter,  did  confess  he  was  there  in  very 
truth.  At  the  same  time  he  besought  us  not  to  breathe 
a  word;  else  should  we  bring  him  into  sore  trouble,  and 
the  poor  lady  would  incur  scandal  and  the  displeasure  of 
her  husband.  And  this  we  did  faithfully  promise  him, — 
laughing  all  the  while  heartily  and  making  mock  at  him, 
albeit  he  was  a  nobleman  of  no  small  rank  and  quality, 
and  declaring  we  would  not  speak  of  the  thing,  and  never 
a  syllable  pass  our  lips. 

Finally  after  some  days  during  which  he  did  continue 
his  trick  with  the  mule  too  often  for  our  patience,  we  did 
discover  our  artfulness  to  him,  and  attacked  him  with 
right  good  will  and  in  good  company.  This  made  him 
desist  for  very  shame,  and  indeed  the  lady  did  know  of  it 
by  this  time  through  our  information,  and  had  the  mule 
and  the  pages  watched  one  day  and  incontinently  driven 
away  from  her  door  like  beggars  in  front  of  an  inn.  Nay ! 
we  did  even  better,  for  we  told  the  tale  to  the  husband, 
and  that  in  such  merry  wise  he  found  it  right  diverting 
and  laughed  heartily  at  the  thing,  saying  he  had  no  fear 
this  fellow  would  make  him  cuckold,  and  that  if  ever  he 
should  find  the  said  mule  and  pages  stationed  at  his  door, 
he  would  have  the  gates  opened  and  invite  them  inside,  to 
the  end  they  might  be  more  at  ease  and  sheltered  from 
heat,  cold  or  rain.  Not  but  what  others  all  the  whole 
while  were  cuckolding  him  soundly  enough.  And  this  is 
how  this  noble  Lord  was  fain,  at  the  expense  of  an  hon- 
ourable lady  and  her  repute,  to  exalt  himself,  without  any 
heed  to  the  scandal  he  might  cause  thereby. 

I  knew  another  nobleman  who  did  bring  sore  scandal 
on  a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady  by  his  behaviour.  He 
had  for  some  while  been  in  love  with  her,  and  did  urge  her 

[115] 


Bft^iyaiftWtiftftffi^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


to  grant  him  the  little  tit-bit  reserved  for  her  husband's 
mouth,  but  she  did  refuse  him  flatly.  At  last,  after  sev- 
eral refusals,  he  said  to  her,  as  if  in  despair,  "Well,  if  you 
won't,  why,  you  won't;  but  I  give  you  my  oath  I  will 
ruin  your  honour  and  repute."  And  to  this  end  he  be- 
thought him  to  make  many  comings  and  goings  in  secret, 
yet  not  so  secret  but  that  he  made  himself  seen  of  set  pur- 
pose by  sundry  eyes,  and  let  himself  be  noted  by  day  and 
by  night  frequenting  the  house  where  she  dwelt.  Then  he 
would  be  ever  vaunting  and  boasting  under  the  rose  of  his 
pretended  successes,  and  in  company  seeking  out  the  lady 
with  more  familiarity  than  he  had  any  call  to  do,  and 
among  his  comrades  swaggering  as  the  happy  lover,  and 
this  all  in  mere  pretence.  The  end  was  that  one  night 
having  slipped  in  very  late  into  the  said  lady's  bedcham- 
ber, all  muffled  in  his  cloak  and  hiding  from  the  folk  of 
the  house,  and  after  playing  sundry  of  his  stealthy  tricks, 
he  was  suspected  by  the  seneschal  of  the  household,  who 
had  a  watch  set.  And  though  they  could  not  find  him, 
yet  did  the  husband  beat  his  wife  and  give  her  several 
buffets ;  but  later,  urged  thereto  by  the  seneschal,  who  said 
it  was  not  punishment  enough,  did  stab  her  and  kill  her; 
and  readily  won  his  pardon  therefor  from  the  King.  A 
sad  pity  truly  for  the  poor  lady,  who  was  very  fair  and 
beauteous.  Afterward  the  nobleman,  which  had  been 
cause  of  all  the  mischief,  did  not  fare  far  or  well,  but  was 
killed  in  a  passage  of  war,  by  God's  good  will,  for  having 
so  unjustly  robbed  an  honourable  lady  of  her  good  name 
and  her  life. 


[116] 


tMtfftffftfl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


11. 

|O  tell  the  truth  as  to  this  example  and  a  host  of 
others  I  have  seen,  there  are  some  ladies  which 
do  themselves  great  wrong,  and  which  are  the 
true  cause  of  the  scandal  and  dishonour  they 
incur.  For  'tis  themselves  that  do  provoke  the  first 
skirmishes  and  purposely  draw  the  gallants  to  them, 
from  the  beginning  lavishing  on  them  the  fondest 
caresses,  favours  and  familiarities,  raising  their  hopes  by 
all  sorts  of  gentle  wiles  and  flattering  words.  Yet  when  it 
cometh  to  the  point,  they  will  refuse  outright,  in  such 
wise  that  the  honourable  gentlemen  which  had  promised 
themselves  many  a  pleasant  treat  of  their  person,  fall  into 
anger  and  despair  and  quit  them  with  harsh  words.  So 
they  depart  abusing  them  and  giving  them  out  for  the 
biggest  strumpets  in  all  the  world,  and  make  out  an  hun- 
dredfold worse  tale  of  their  demerits  than  is  really 
deserved. 

And  this  is  why  an  honourable  lady  should  never  set 
herself  to  draw  a  gallant  to  her,  and  suffer  him  to  be  her 
servant,  if  she  will  not  satisfy  him  at  the  last  according  to 
his  deserts  and  loving  service.  It  behooves  her  to  realize 
this,  unless  she  would  be  undone,  even  when  she  hath  to 
do  with  an  honourable  and  gallant  man ;  else  from  the  first 
beginning,  when  he  doth  first  accost  her,  and  she  sees  it 
is  with  this  end  so  much  desired  in  view,  that  he  pay  his 
vows  to  her,  but  she  feeleth  no  desire  to  gratify  him 
herein,  she  should  give  him  his  dismissal  at  the  very 
threshold.  For  indeed,  to  speak  quite  candidly,  any 
woman  that  doth  suffer  a  lover  to  court  her,  doth  lay 
herself  under  such  obligation  that  she  cannot  withdraw 

[117] 


iffWftBraigWffigWfflffWffi?^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


afterward  from  the  fight.  She  is  bound  to  come  to  it 
sooner  or  later,  long  though  the  coming  may  sometimes  be. 

There  be  some  dames,  however,  whose  joy  is  to  be  served 
for  nothing,  but  only  for  the  light  of  their  bright  eyes. 
They  say  they  love  to  be  served  and  courted,  that  this  is 
their  great  happiness,  and  not  to  come  to  the  final  act  at 
all.  Their  pleasure,  they  declare,  doth  lie  in  wishing  for 
it,  not  in  actually  performing  of  it.  I  have  known  many 
ladies  which  have  told  me  this.  Yet  can  they  never  stop 
there;  for  if  once  they  do  begin  wishing  for  it,  without 
shadow  of  doubt  they  will  some  day  come  to  the  doing  of 
it  as  well.  For  this  is  the  law  of  love,  that  when  once  a 
woman  doth  wish  or  hope,  or  but  dream  of  wishing  and 
desiring  a  man  for  herself,  the  thing  is  done.  If  only  the 
man  know  it,  and  steadily  follow  up  his  fair  assailant,  he 
will  surely  have  leg  or  wing,  fur  or  feathers,  as  they  say. 

In  this  wise  then  are  poor  husbands  made  cuckold  by 
such  thoughts  on  the  part  of  ladies,  who  are  ready  to  wish 
forsooth,  but  not  to  do.  For  truly,  without  suspecting  it, 
they  will  of  their  own  fault  be  burned  in  the  candle,  or  at 
the  fire  they  have  themselves  built.  Like  poor  simple 
shepherdesses,  which  to  warm  themselves  in  the  fields  as 
they  watch  their  sheep  and  lambs,  do  kindle  a  little  fire, 
without  thought  of  any  harm  or  ill  to  follow.  But  they 
give  no  heed  to  the  chance  their  little  fire  may  set  so  great 
an  one  ablaze  as  will  burn  up  a  whole  country-side  of 
plains  and  woods. 

'Twere  well  if  such  ladies  would  take  example,  to  teach 
them  wisdom,  of  the  Comtesse  d'Escaldasor,  a  very  fair 
lady  dwelling  at  Pavia,  to  whom  M.  de  Lescu,  afterward 
known  as  the  Marechal  de  Foix,  was  paying  court.  He 
was  then  a  student  at  Pavia,  and  was  called  the  Pro- 

[118] 


^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

tonotary  de  Foix,  seeing  he  was  destined  for  the  Church, 
though  afterward  he  did  quit  the  long  robe  to  adopt  the 
profession  of  arms.  And  he  might  well  love  her,  seeing 
at  that  day  she  bare  the  bell  for  beauty  over  all  the 
ladies  of  Lombardy.  So  seeing  herself  hotly  pressed  by 
him,  yet  not  wishing  to  rudely  disoblige  him  or  dismiss 
him  roughly,  for  he  was  a  near  kinsman  of  the  renowned 
Gaston  de  Foix,  at  whose  fame  all  Italy  trembled  in  those 
days,  the  Countess  on  a  day  of  high  festivity  and  state 
at  Pavia,  whereat  all  the  fairest  ladies  of  the  city  and 
neighbourhood  were  gathered  and  many  noble  gentlemen, 
did  appear,  the  fairest  of  them  all,  superbly  attired  in  a 
robe  of  sky  blue,  all  trimmed  and  bespangled  over  all  its 
length  and  breadth  with  torches  and  butterflies  fluttering 
round  them  and  burning  themselves  in  their  flame.  The 
whole  was  in  broidery  of  gold  and  silver,  for  truly  the 
embroiderers  of  Milan  have  ever  surpassed  those  of  all  the 
rest  of  the  world,  and  won  the  lady  the  general  repute  of 
being  the  best  adorned  of  all  the  company  there  present. 
Then  the  Protonotary,  leading  her  out  to  the  dance, 
was  moved  to  ask  her  what  might  be  the  meaning  of  the 
designs  on  her  robe,  strongly  suspecting  there  lay  be- 
neath some  hidden  signification  unfavourable  to  him.  She 
made  answer  in  these  words,  "Sir,  I  have  had  my  robe 
fashioned  thus,  just  as  soldiers  and  horsemen  do  with 
their  horses  when  they  are  wild  and  vicious,  and  kick  and 
fling  out  their  heels.  For  they  do  fix  on  their  crupper  a 
big  silver  bell,  to  the  end  that  this  signal  may  warn  their 
comrades,  when  they  are  riding  in  a  close  press  of  com- 
pany, to  take  heed  of  the  vicious  kicker,  lest  he  do  them 
an  injury.  In  like  wise  by  my  fluttering  butterflies,  burn- 
ing themselves  in  these  torches,  I  do  warn  those  honour- 

[119] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


able  gentlemen  which  do  me  the  favour  of  loving  me  and 
admiring  my  beauty,  not  to  come  too  nigh,  nor  to  desire 
aught  else,  but  only  the  sight  of  me.  For  they  will  gain 
nothing  thereby,  but  only  like  the  butterflies, — to  long, 
and  burn,  and  get  no  satisfaction." 

The  story  is  writ  in  the  Emblems  of  Paulus  Jovius.1 
In  this  fashion  did  she  warn  her  lover  to  take  heed  for 
himself  in  time.  I  know  not  whether  or  no  he  did  come 
more  nigh,  or  what  he  did.  But  later,  being  wounded 
to  the  death  at  the  battle  of  Pavia,  and  taken  prisoner, 
he  begged  to  be  carried  to  the  house  of  this  same  Countess 
at  Pavia,  where  he  was  very  well  received  and  tended  by 
her.  In  three  days'  time  he  died  there,  to  the  great  sor- 
row of  the  lady,  as  I  did  hear  the  story  told  me  by  M.  de 
Monluc,  one  time  we  were  together  in  the  trenches  at 
Rochelle.  It  was  night  and  we  were  talking  together, 
when  I  related  to  him  the  tale  of  the  robe  and  its  device; 
on  this  he  assured  me  he  had  seen  the  said  Countess,  who 
was  very  fair,  and  did  love  the  Marechal  well,  and  how 
he  had  been  most  honourably  entreated  of  her.  For  the 
rest  he  knew  not  if  ever  they  had  gone  further  at  all. 
This  example  should  be  warning  enough  for  many  of  the 
ladies  the  which  I  have  spoken  of  above. 

Then  again,  there  be  cuckolds  which  are  so  righteous 
they  have  their  wives  preached  to  and  admonished  by  good 
and  religious  men,  with  a  view  to  their  conversion  and 
reform.  And  these,  with  forced  tears  and  words  of  pre- 
tended sorrow,  do  make  many  vows,  promising  mountains 
and  marvels  of  repentance,  and  never,  never  to  do  the  like 
again.  But  their  oaths  do  scarce  endure  an  instant,  for 
truly  the  vows  and  tears  of  suchlike  dames  are  of  just  so 
much  weight  as  are  the  oaths  and  adjurations  of  lovers. 

[120] 


w?^m^?w!^f^^\ff^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gifefflamaikmmaa^^ 

So  have  I  seen  and  known  well  a  certain  lady  to  the  which 
a  great  Prince,  her  Sovereign,  did  offer  the  affront  of 
commissioning  appointing  a  Cordelier  monk,  as  from  him- 
self and  coming  from  the  Court,  to  go  find  her  husband, 
who  was  spending  his  vacation  on  his  estate,  to  warn  the 
same  of  his  wife's  reckless  loves  and  the  ill  report  current 
of  the  wrong  she  was  doing  him,  and  to  say  how,  for  the 
respect  due  to  his  position  and  office,  he  was  sending  him 
timely  news  thereof,  to  the  end  he  might  correct  this  sin- 
ful soul.  The  husband  was  greatly  astounded  and  moved 
at  such  a  message  and  kindly  warning;  yet  did  take  no 
overt  action,  except  only  to  thank  his  Prince  and  assure 
him  he  would  see  to  the  matter.  Yet  on  his  return  he 
did  make  no  difference  for  the  worse  in  his  treatment  of 
his  wife;  for  truly  what  would  he  have  gained  thereby? 
Once  a  woman  hath  taken  to  these  courses,  naught  will 
alter  her,  like  a  posthorse  which  is  grown  so  thoroughly 
used  to  go  at  the  gallop  that  he  can  in  no  wise  learn  to 
go  any  other  gait  whatsoever. 

Alas!  how  oft  have  we  seen  honourable  ladies  which, 
having  been  surprised  at  these  tricks,  and  thereupon  chid 
and  beaten,  yea!  and  admonished  by  every  prayer  and 
remonstrance  not  to  return  to  the  like  course,  do  prom- 
ise, protest  and  swear  they  will  behave  them  chastely,  yet 
do  presently  illustrate  the  proverb,  passato  il  periglio, 
gabbato  il  santo  (the  danger  past,  the  Saint  is  mocked), 
and  return  again  with  all  the  more  zest  to  the  game  of 
love.  Nay !  many  have  we  seen,  which  themselves  feeling 
some  worm  of  remorse  gnawing  their  soul,  have  of  their 
proper  act  made  holy  and  right  solemn  vows  of  reforma- 
tion, yet  have  never  kept  them,  but  presently  have  re- 

[121] 


Bfiflggigwag5igww\i^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

afegiMi&aiyaiyiijy^ 

pented  of  their  repentance,  as  M.  du  Bellay  doth  say  of 
penitent  courtesans:2 

Mere  d'amour,  suivant  mes  premiers  vceux, 
Dessous  tes  lois  remettre  je  me  veux, 
Dont  je  voudrois  n'estre  jamais  sortie; 
Et  me  repens  de  m'estre  repentie. 

(Mother  of  love,  returning  to  my  earlier  vows,  I  am  fain  to 
put  me  again  beneath  thy  laws,  which  I  would  I  had  never 
deserted;  lo!  I  repent  me  of  my  penitence.) 

Such  women  declare  'tis  exceeding  hard  to  give  up  for- 
ever so  sweet  a  habit  and  fond  custom,  seeing  their  time  is 
so  short  in  this  brief  sojourn  they  make  in  this  world. 

To  confirm  what  I  here  say  I  would  readily  appeal 
to  many  a  fair  maid,  which  hath  repented  in  youth  and 
taken  the  veil  and  become  a  nun.  If  such  were  asked 
on  her  faith  and  conscience  what  she  did  really  desire, 
many  a  time,  I  know,  she  would  say,  "Ah !  would  the  high 
convent  walls  were  broken  down,  that  I  might  straight 
be  free  again !" 

Wherefore  husbands  need  never  think  to  reduce  their 
wives  to  order  again,  after  once  these  have  made  the  first 
breach  in  their  honour,  or  that  they  can  aught  else  but 
only  give  them  the  rein,  merely  recommending  discretion 
and  all  possible  avoidance  of  scandal.  For  truly  we  may 
apply  all  the  remedies  of  love  which  ever  Ovid  taught,  and 
an  host  of  other  subtle  remedies  that  others  have  in- 
vented, yea !  and  those  puissant  ones  of  Fra^ois  Rabe- 
lais,3 which  he  did  teach  to  the  venerable  Panurge,  yet 
will  none  of  them  all  avail.  But  'twere  best  of  all  to 
follow  the  advice  given  in  the  refrain  of  an  old  song  of 
King  Francis'  time,  which  saith, 

[122] 


feWSfflrtfflftffliW^ftffl?WS^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Qui  voudroit  garder  qu'une  femme 
N'aille  du  tout  a  1' abandon, 
II  faudroit  la  fermer  dans  une  pipe, 
Et  en  jouir  par  le  bondon. 

(If  a  man  would  make  sure  of  his  wife  never  going  to  the 
bad  at  all,  he  had  best  shut  her  up  in  a  cask,  and  enjoy  her 
through  the  bung-hole.) 

In  the  reign  of  the  late  King  Henri  of  France  there 
was  a  certain  jeweller  which  did  import  and  expose  for 
sale  at  the  great  Fair  of  St.  Germains  a  round  dozen  of 
a  certain  contrivance  for  confining  women's  affairs.4 
These  were  made  of  iron  and  were  worn  like  a  belt,  join- 
ing underneath  and  locking  with  a  key,  and  were  so  cun- 
ningly framed  that  the  woman,  once  confined  therein, 
could  never  find  opportunity  for  the  pleasures  of  love, 
there  being  only  a  few  little  tiny  holes  in  the  thing  for 
empissoyent  through. 

'Tis  said  that  five  or  six  jealous  husbands  were  found 
ready  to  buy  one,  wherewith  they  did  confine  their  wives 
in  such  wise  they  might  well  say,  "Good-bye,  good  times 
for  ever  and  aye!"  Yet  was  there  one  wife  who  be- 
thought her  to  apply  to  a  locksmith  very  cunning  in  his 
art.  So,  when  she  had  shown  him  the  said  contrivance, 
her  husband  being  away  in  the  country,  he  did  so  well  use 
his  ingenuity  that  he  forged  a  false  key  therefor,  so  that 
the  good  lady  could  open  and  shut  the  thing  at  any  time, 
whenever  she  would.  The  husband  did  never  suspect  or 
say  a  word,  while  the  wife  took  her  fill  of  the  best  of  all 
pleasures,  in  spite  of  the  jealous  fool  and  silly  cuckold 
her  husband,  who  did  imagine  all  the  time  he  was  living 
free  of  all  apprehension  of  such  a  fate.  But  truly  the 

[123] 


lira»ralffwWWW!al?rflltfflif^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

Hs^iiyiiMiMijyiiMiMi&^^^ 

naughty  locksmith,  which  made  the  false  key,  quite  spoiled 
his  game ;  yea  \  and  did  even  better,  by  what  they  say,  for 
he  was  the  first  who  tasted  the  dainty,  and  cuckolded  him. 
Nor  was  this  so  extraordinary,  for  did  not  Venus,  which 
was  the  fairest  woman  and  harlot  in  all  the  world,  mate 
with  Vulcan,  ironworker  and  locksmith,  the  which  was 
exceeding  mean-looking,  foul,  lame  and  hideous. 

They  say,  moreover,  that  there  were  a  number  of  gal- 
lant and  honourable  gentlemen  of  the  Court  which  did 
threaten  the  jeweller  that  if  ever  again  he  should  have 
aught  to  do  with  bringing  such  villainies  with  him,  he 
would  be  killed.  They  bade  him  never  come  back  again, 
and  made  him  throw  all  the  others  that  were  left  into 
the  draught-house ;  and  since  then  no  more  has  been  heard 
of  such  contrivances.  And  this  was  wisely  done;  for 
truly  'twas  as  good,  or  as  bad,  as  destroying  one  half  of 
mankind,  so  to  hinder  the  engendering  of  posterity  by 
dint  of  such  confining,  locking  up  and  imprisoning  of 
nature,-^-an  abominable  and  hateful  wrong  to  human  pro- 
ductiveness. 

Some  there  be  which  do  give  their  wives  into  the  hands 
of  eunuchs  to  guard  their  honour,  a  thing  which  the  Em- 
peror Alexander  Severus  did  strongly  reprobate,  harshly 
bidding  them  never  have  dealings  with  Roman  ladies.  But 
they  were  soon  recalled  again.  Not  indeed  that  these 
could  ever  beget  children  or  the  women  conceive  of  them; 
yet  can  they  afford  some  slight  feeling  and  superficial 
taste  of  minor  pleasures,  giving  some  colourable  imita- 
tion of  the  complete  and  perfect  bliss.  Of  this  many 
husbands  do  take  very  little  account,  declaring  that  their 
main  grievance  in  the  adultery  of  their  wives  had  naught 
at  all  to  do  with  what  they  got  given  them,  but  that  it 

[124] 


vrm^ffmrwirmTm^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


vexed  them  sore  to  have  to  rear  and  bring  up  and  recog- 
nise as  heirs  children  they  had  never  begotten. 

Indeed  but  for  this,  there  is  nothing  they  would  have 
made  less  ado  about.  Thus  have  I  known  not  a  few  hus- 
bands, who  when  they  did  find  the  lovers,  who  had  made 
their  wives  children,  to  be  easy  and  good-natured,  and 
ready  to  give  freely  and  keep  them,  took  no  more  account 
of  the  thing  at  all,  or  even  advised  their  wives  to  beg  of 
them  and  crave  some  allowance  to  keep  the  little  one  they 
had  had  of  them. 

So  have  I  heard  tell  of  a  great  lady,  which  was  the 
mother  of  Villeconnin,  natural  son  of  Francis  I.  The 
same  did  beseech  the  King  to  give  or  assign  her  some  little 
property,  before  he  died,  for  the  child  he  had  begot, — 
and  this  he  did.  He  made  over  for  this  end  two  hun- 
dred thousand  crowns  in  bank,  which  did  profit  him  well 
and  ran  on  ever  growing,  what  with  interest  and  re-in- 
vestment, in  such  wise  that  it  became  a  great  sum  and 
he  did  spend  money  with  such  magnificence  and  seemed 
in  such  good  case  and  ample  funds  at  Court  that  all  were 
astonished  thereat.  And  all  thought  he  enjoyed  the  fa- 
vours of  some  mysterious  lady.  None  believed  her  his 
mother,  but,  seeing  he  never  went  about  without  her,  it 
was  universally  supposed  the  great  expenditure  he  made 
did  come  from  his  connexion  with  her.  Yet  it  was  not 
so  at  all,  for  she  was  really  his  mother;  though  few  peo- 
ple were  ware  of  it.  Nor  was  anything  known  for  sure 
of  his  lineage  or  birth,  except  that  he  eventually  died  at 
Constantinople,  and  that  his  inheritance  as  King's  bastard 
was  given  to  the  Marechal  de  Retz,  who  was  keen  and  cun- 
ning enough  to  have  discovered  this  little  secret  which  he 
was  able  to  turn  to  his  profit,  and  did  verify  the  bastardy 

[125] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


which  had  been  so  long  hid.  Thus  he  did  win  the  gift  of 
this  inheritance  over  the  head  of  M.  de  Teligny,  who  had 
been  constituted  heir  of  the  aforesaid  Villeconnin. 

Other  folk,  however,  declared  that  the  said  lady  had  had 
the  child  by  another  than  the  King,  and  had  so  enriched 
him  out  of  her  own  fortune.  But  M.  de  Retz  did  scruti- 
nize and  search  among  the  banks  so  carefully  that  he  did 
find  the  money  and  the  original  securities  of  King  Fran- 
cis. For  all  this  some  still  held  the  child  to  have  been 
the  son  of  another  Prince  not  so  high  as  the  King,  or  some 
one  else  of  inferior  rank,  maintaining  that  for  the  pur- 
pose of  covering  up  and  concealing  the  whole  thing  and 
yet  providing  the  child  a  maintenance,  'twas  no  bad  de- 
vice to  lay  it  all  to  his  Majesty's  account,  as  indeed  hath 
been  done  in  other  instances. 

This  much  I  do  firmly  believe,  that  there  be  many 
women  in  the  world,  nay!  even  in  France,  which  if  only 
they  thought  they  could  bring  children  into  existence  at 
this  rate,  would  right  readily  suffer  Kings  and  great 
Princes  to  mount  on  their  bellies.  But  in  very  fact  they 
ofttimes  so  mount  without  any  grand  regale  following. 
Then  are  the  poor  ladies  sore  deceived  and  disappointed, 
for  when  they  do  consent  to  give  themselves  to  suchlike 
great  personages,  'tis  only  to  have  the  galardon  (guer- 
don, recompense),  as  folk  say  in  Spanish. 

Now  as  to  such  putative  and  doubtful  children,  a  ques- 
tion doth  arise  open  to  much  dispute,  to  wit  whether  they 
ought  to  succeed  to  their  father's  and  mother's  goods, 
some  maintaining  'tis  a  great  sin  for  women  to  make  them 
so  succeed.  Some  authorities  have  declared  the  woman 
should  surely  reveal  the  thing  to  the  husband  and  tell  him 

[126] 


ffwwssraigwgfifiSBffflg^^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gl^ffliyta^aiyaiytliyjBy^^ 

the  whole  truth,  and  this  is  the  opinion  held  by  the  well- 
known  "Subtle  Doctor."  Others  on  the  contrary  hold 
this  opinion  to  be  bad,  because  the  woman  would  then  be 
defaming  herself  by  revealing  it,  and  this  she  is  in  no  wise 
bound  to  do ;  for  good  repute  is  a  more  precious  posses- 
sion than  riches,  saith  Solomon. 

'Tis  better  then  for  the  goods  to  be  taken,  even  un- 
justly, by  the  child  than  that  the  mother's  good  name  be 
lost,  for  as  a  proverb  hath  it,  "A  good  name  is  better 
than  a  golden  girdle."  Now  the  Theologians  hold  a 
maxim  to  the  effect  that  when  two  opposite  precepts  and 
commands  are  binding  on  us,  the  less  must  give  way  to  the 
greater.  But  the  command  to  guard  one's  repute  is 
greater  and  more  stringent  than  that  which  orders  to 
restore  another's  goods;  and  so  must  be  preferred  be- 
fore it. 

Nay!  more,  if  the  wife  do  reveal  this  to  her  husband, 
she  doth  thereby  put  herself  in  danger  of  being  actually 
killed  at  his  hands;  but  it  is  straitly  forbid  for  any  to 
compass  their  own  death. 

12. 

EITHER  is  it  allowed  a  woman  to  kill  herself 
for  dread  of  being  violated,  or  after  being  so ; 
else  would  she  be  doing  a  mortal  sin.  Where- 
fore is  it  better  for  her  to  suffer  herself  to  be 
ravished,  if  that  she  can  in  no  wise  by  fight  or  crying  out 
avoid  the  same,  than  to  kill  herself.  For  the  violation 
of  the  body  is  not  sin,  except  with  the  consent  of  the  will. 
Hence  the  reply  which  Saint  Lucy  did  make  to  the  tyrant 
who  threatened  to  have  her  taken  to  the  brothel.  "If 

[127] 


li^^fflfiffi^^^l^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


you  have  me  forced,"  she  said,  "why !  my  chastity  will  re- 
ceive a  double  crown." 

For  this  cause  Lucretia  hath  been  found  to  blame  by 
some.  True  it  is  Saint  Sabina  and  Saint  Sophronia, 
along  with  other  Christian  virgins,  who  did  take  their  own 
lives  rather  than  fall  into  the  hands  of  barbarians,  are 
excused  by  our  doctors  and  fathers  of  the  Church,  which 
say  they  did  so  by  special  prompting  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
By  this  same  prompting,  after  the  taking  of  Cyprus,  a 
certain  Cypriote  damsel,  lately  made  Christian,  seeing 
herself  being  carried  off  as  a  slave  with  many  another 
lady  of  her  sort,  to  be  the  prey  of  Turks,  did  secretly 
fire  the  powder  magazine  in  the  galley,  so  that  in  an  in- 
stant all  was  burned  up  and  consumed  along  with  her, 
saying,  "So  please  God,  our  bodies  will  never  be  polluted 
and  ravished  by  these  foul  Turks  and  Saracens !"  Or  'tis 
possible,  God  knows,  it  had  already  been  polluted  and  she 
was  fain  to  do  penance  therefor, — unless  indeed  the  fact 
was  her  master  had  refrained  from  touching  her,  to  the 
end  he  might  make  more  money  by  selling  her  a  maid,  see- 
ing men  are  desirous  in  those  lands,  as  indeed  in  all  other 
lands,  to  taste  a  fresh  and  untainted  morsel. 

However,  to  return  to  the  noble  custodians  of  these 
poor  women, — the  eunuchs.  These,  as  I  have  said,  are 
not  utterly  unable  to  do  adultery  with  them  and  make 
their  husbands  cuckold,  excepting  always  the  engender- 
ing of  children. 

I  knew  two  women  in  France  which  did  deliberately  set 
their  love  on  two  gentlemen  who  were  castrate,  to  the  end 
they  might  not  become  with  child ;  yet  did  they  find  pleas- 
ure therein,  and  free  from  all  fear  of  scandal.  But  there 
have  been  husbands  in  Turkey  and  Barbary  so  jealous, 

[128] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


that  having  discovered  this  deceit,  they  have  determined 
to  castrate  their  wretched  slaves  altogether  and  entirely, 
and  cut  the  whole  concern  clean  off.  Now,  by  what  those 
say  who  have  had  experience  of  Turkey,  not  two  out  of 
the  dozen  escape  of  those  on  whom  they  do  practise  this 
cruelty,  and  do  not  die  therefrom.  Them  that  do  sur- 
vive, they  do  cherish  and  make  much  of,  as  true,  certain 
and  chaste  guardians  of  their  wives'  chastity  and  sure 
guarantors  of  their  honour. 

We  Christians  on  our  part  do  not  practise  suchlike 
abominable  and  too  utterly  horrible  cruelties ;  but  instead 
of  these  castrated  slaves,  we  give  our  women  old  men  of 
sixty  for  guardians.  This  for  instance  is  done  in  Spain, 
even  at  the  Court  of  the  Queens  of  that  country,  where 
I  have  seen  them  as  custodians  of  the  maids  of  honour 
and  Court  ladies.  Yet,  God  knows,  there  be  old  men  more 
dangerous  for  ruining  maids  and  wives  than  any  young 
ones,  and  an  hundred  times  more  hot,  ingenious  and  per- 
severing to  gain  over  and  corrupt  the  same. 

I  do  not  believe  such  men,  for  all  they  be  hoary  headed 
and  white  bearded,  are  more  sure  guardians  at  all  than 
younger  men,  nor  old  women  neither.  Thus  an  aged 
Spanish  duenna  once,  taking  out  her  maids  and  passing 
by  a  great  hall  and  seeing  men's  members  painted  up  on 
the  wall  in  lifelike  portrayal,  only  exaggerated  and  out 
of  all  proportion,  did  remark,  Mira  que  tan  bravos  no  los 
pintan  estos  hombres,  como  quien  no  los  conociese  (Look 
how  brave  men  those  be,  and  how  ill  they  have  painted 
them,  like  one  who  has  never  seen  the  things).  Then  all 
her  maids  did  turn  toward  her,  and  noted  what  she  said, 
except  one,  of  my  acquaintance,  who  acting  the  ingenue, 
did  ask  one  of  her  companions  what  birds  those  were; 

[129] 


BftflfrsfflTW:?^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a&^yiiiyiiMii^i^ii^iMi^^ 

for  some  of  them  were  depicted  with  wings.  And  the 
other  made  answer,  they  were  birds  of  Barbary,  more 
beautiful  in  reality  than  even  as  depicted.  God  only 
knows  if  she  had  ever  seen  any  such ;  but  she  had  to  make 
what  pretence  she  could. 

Many  husbands  are  sore  deceived,  and  often,  in  their 
duennas.  For  they  think,  provided  only  their  women- 
kind  are  in  the  charge  of  some  old  woman,  whom  both 
parties  do  call  mother  as  a  title  of  respect,  that  they  must 
needs  be  well  safeguarded  in  front.  Yet  none  are  more 
easy  than  such  guardians  to  be  bribed  and  won  over; 
for  being  as  they  are,  avaricious  of  their  very  nature, 
they  are  ready  to  take  gold  from  any  quarter  to  sell  their 
prisoners. 

Others  again  cannot  be  forever  on  the  watch  over  their 
young  charges,  who  themselves  are  always  wide  awake 
and  on  the  alert,  especially  when  they  be  in  love;  for 
truly  most  of  their  time  the  old  dames  will  be  asleep  in 
the  chimney-corner,  while  before  their  very  face  the  hus- 
bands will  be  a-cuckolding,  without  their  heeding  or  know- 
ing aught  about  it. 

I  knew  once  a  lady  which  did  it  before  her  duenna's 
very  eyes,  in  such  cunning  wise  she  never  perceived  any- 
thing wrong.  Another  did  the  like  in  her  own  husband's 
presence  and  all  but  under  his  eyes,  the  while  he  was 
playing  at  primero. 

Then  other  aged  dames  will  be  feeble  of  foot,  and  cannot 
follow  up  their  ladies  at  a  round  pace,  so  that  by  the  time 
they  do  reach  the  extremity  of  a  walk  or  a  wood  or  a 
room,  the  young  ones  have  whipped  their  little  present 
into  their  pocket,  without  the  old  duenna  having  observed 
what  was  a-doing,  or  seen  aught  whatever,  being  slow 

[130] 


^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

l^y^jMIMEaMIMl^^ 

of  foot  and  dim  of  sight.  Again  there  be  yet  other  dames 
of  the  sort  which,  themselves  having  plied  the  trade  of 
old,  do  think  it  pity  to  see  the  young  fast,  and  are  so 
good-natured  to  them,  they  will  of  their  own  accord  open 
the  way  for  their  charges,  yea!  and  provoke  them  to 
follow  in  the  same,  and  help  them  all  they  can.  Thus 
Aretino  saith  how  the  greatest  of  pleasures  for  a  woman 
that  hath  travelled  that  road,  and  her  highest  satisfac- 
tion, is  ever  to  make  another  do  likewise. 

And  this  is  why,  when  a  man  doth  crave  the  aid  of  a 
good  minister  for  his  amours,  he  will  alway  apply  and 
address  himself  to  an  old  procuress  rather  than  to  a  young 
woman.  So  I  do  remember  a  certain  very  gallant  gen- 
tleman, which  did  mislike  sorely,  and  did  forbid  it  ex- 
pressly, that  his  wife  should  ever  frequent  the  company 
of  old  women,  as  being  much  too  dangerous  society, — 
but  with  younger  women  she  might  go  as  much  as  she 
pleased.  And  for  this  course  he  would  adduce  many 
excellent  reasons,  the  which  I  will  leave  to  men  of  apter 
discourse  than  I  to  detail  in  full. 

And  this  is  why  a  certain  Lord  of  the  great  world  I 
know  of  did  entrust  his  wife,  of  whom  he  was  very  jealous, 
to  a  lady,  a  cousin  of  his  own,  but  unmarried,  to  be  her 
surveillante.  This  office  she  did  zealously  perform,  albeit 
for  her  own  part  she  did  copy  the  half  only  of  the  char- 
acter of  the  gardener's  dog,  seeing  he  doth  never  eat  the 
cabbage  out  of  his  master's  garden,  nor  yet  will  suffer 
other  to  do  so ;  but  this  lady  would  eat  readily  enough, 
but  would  never  suffer  her  cousin.  Yet  was  the  other 
forever  filching  some  dainty  bit,  without  her  noting  it, 
cunning  as  she  was, — or  mayhap  she  did  but  make  pre- 
tence not  to  see. 

[131] 


B?^lff^?^^lg^lff^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

iB^il&^!^i£m^i£^!^^ 

I  could  right  easily  adduce  an  host  of  devices  which 
poor  jealous  cuckolds  do  employ  to  confine,  constrain, 
curb  and  keep  in  their  wives,  that  they  kick  not  over  the 
traces.  But  it  is  of  mighty  little  use  for  them  either  to 
try  these  ancient  means  they  have  heard  tell  of,  or  to 
invent  new  ones ;  they  but  lose  their  labour.  For  once 
women  have  gotten  this  naughty  worm  of  love  in  their 
heads,  they  will  ever  be  sending  their  poor  husbands  to 
keep  house  with  Guillot  the  Pensive.  And  hereof  do  I 
hope  to  discourse  further  in  a  chapter  I  have  already  half 
writ,  on  the  ruses  and  stratagems  of  women  in  this  matter, 
the  which  I  do  compare  with  the  ambuscades  and  strata- 
gems of  soldiers  in  war.  But  the  finest  device  of  all,  the 
most  sure  and  eke  the  kindest  preventive  a  jealous  hus- 
band can  apply  to  his  wife,  is  ever  to  let  her  go  her  way 
in  full  liberty,  as  I  have  heard  a  very  gallant  married 
man  declare,  for  that  it  is  the  woman's  nature  the  more 
she  is  forbid  a  thing,  so  much  the  more  to  long  for  the 
same;  and  this  is  especially  true  in  love,  where  the  appe- 
tite doth  grow  far  hotter  by  forbidding  than  by  letting 
things  take  their  course. 

Then  is  there  another  sort  of  cuckolds,  as  to  whom  doth 
arise  the  following  question,  to  wit, — whether  if  a  man 
hath  had  full  enjoyment  of  a  woman  during  the  lifetime 
of  her  cuckold  husband,  and  this  latter  die,  and  the  lover 
do  afterward  marry  the  widow  in  second  nuptials,  he 
ought  to  wear  the  name  and  title  of  cuckold, — a  case  I 
have  heard  debated  in  regard  to  several,  and  these  great 
men. 

Some  there  be  do  say  he  cannot  be  cuckold,  because  it  is 
himself  did  have  the  doing  of  it,  and  no  one  else  did  make 
him  so  but  only  himself,  and  the  horns  were  made  by  him 

[132] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


W4W»vWt^^l»^»yj|^j^^ 


and  no  other.  Yet  are  there  many  armourors  that  do 
malce  swords  whereby  themselves  are  killed,  or  do  kill 
each  other. 

Others  again  say  he  is  really  cuckold,  but  only  in 
embryo.  For  this  they  do  allege  many  reasons,  but  see- 
ing the  process  is  yet  undecided,  I  leave  it  to  be  pleaded 
before  the  first  audience  that  will  listen  to  the  case. 

The  same  may  be  said  concerning  a  very  great  lady, 
and  a  married  one,  which  did  break  her  marriage  vow 
fourteen  years  agone  with  the  lover  who  doth  keep  to  her 
still,  and  since  that  day  hath  been  ever  awaiting  and 
longing  for  her  husband's  death.  But  the  devil  is  in  it 
if  he  hath  ever  yet  contrived  to  die  to  meet  her  wishes ! 
So  that  she  might  well  say,  "Cursed  be  the  husband  and 
mate,  which  hath  lived  longer  than  I  desired !"  Sicknesses 
and  calamities  of  body  he  hath  had  galore,  but  never 
fatal.  In  fact  our  King,  the  last  Henri,  having  bestowed 
the  inheritance  in  the  fine  and  rich  estate  the  said  cuckold 
husband  had  of  him  on  a  very  honourable  and  brave  gen- 
tleman, would  ofttimes  say,  "Two  persons  there  be  at  my 
Court  which  are  thinking  it  long  till  so  and  so  die,  one  for 
his  estate's  sake  and  the  other  to  wed  her  lover.  But  both 
one  and  the  other  have  been  sore  deluded  up  to  now." 

See  how  wise  and  foreseeing  God  is,  not  to  send  folk 
what  they  wish,  when  it  is  evil.  However,  I  have  been 
told  that  for  some  while  past  this  pair  are  in  ill  accord, 
and  have  now  burned  their  promise  of  future  marriage 
and  broke  the  agreement, — to  the  huge  despite  of  the 
lady  and  joy  of  the  prospective  husband,  seeing  he  did  in 
no  wise  desire  to  go  on  longer  and  wait  forever  for  the 
death  of  the  other.  This  last  was  alway  making  a  mock 
of  folk,  continually  giving  alarms,  as  that  he  was  just 

[133] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

aaaii^aRaMiMi^JMLMife^^ 

about  to  die  ;  yet  in  the  end  he  hath  survived  his  would-be 
supplanter.  An  instance  surely  of  God's  punishment, 
for  a  marriage  so  made  is  a  thing  all  but  unheard  of  ;  and 
indeed  'tis  a  great  sin,  and  an  odious,  to  contract  and 
agree  upon  a  second  marriage,  the  first  being  still  exist- 
ent in  its  entirety. 

I  had  rather  have  one,  also  a  great  lady,  albeit  not  so 
great  as  the  other  I  have  just  spoke  of,  who  being  sought 
of  a  nobleman  in  marriage,  did  wed  him,  not  for  the  love 
she  bare  him,  but  because  she  saw  him  sickly,  thin  and 
worn,  and  in  constant  ill-health,  and  as  the  doctors  told 
her  he  would  not  outlive  the  year,  even  after  having  known 
this  fair  lady  several  times  abed.  Wherefore  she  did 
expect  his  death  very  soon,  and  did  make  all  dispositions 
after  his  demise  as  to  his  goods  and  property,  fine  plenish- 
ing and  great  wealth,  which  he  did  bring  her  by  marriage  ; 
for  he  was  a  nobleman  of  much  riches  and  very  well-to-do. 
But  she  was  finely  cheated;  for  he  liveth  still  a  sturdy 
wight,  and  in  better  fettle  an  hundred  times  than  before 
he  married  her  ;  since  then  the  lady  herself  is  dead.  They 
say  the  aforesaid  nobleman  was  used  to  feign  to  be  sickly 
and  ailing  to  the  end  that,  knowing  as  he  did  the  lady  to 
be  exceeding  avaricious,  she  might  wed  him  in  the  hope 
of  getting  so  rich  an  inheritance.  Yet  did  God  above 
dispose  it  all  quite  contrariwise,  and  made  the  she-goat 
feed  where  she  had  been  tied,  in  spite  of  herself. 

Now  what  shall  we  say  of  such  men  as  do  wed  with 
harlots  and  courtesans,  that  are  very  famous,  as  is  com- 
monly done  in  France,  but  still  more  in  Spain  and  Italy, 
where  men  are  persuaded  they  are  winning  God's  mercy 
for  good  deeds,  por  librar  un'  anima  Christiana  del  in- 

[134] 


rA*r4w«\iy4\ir^&»iMMMMr/%wiwr/w^ 


:jtvWt«<Ml«WW!J»*^l>li!!J8g^^ 


fierno, — "for  delivering  a  Christian  soul  from  hell,"  as 
they  say,  and  setting  it  in  the  right  way. 

I  have  undoubtedly  seen  some  men  maintain  this  opin- 
ion and  doctrine,  that  if  they  did  marry  them  for  this 
good  and  religious  object,  they  ought  in  no  wise  to  be 
ranked  as  cuckolds.  For  surely  what  is  done  for  the 
honour  of  God  should  not  be  made  a  matter  of  shame. 
This,  of  course,  provided  that  their  wives,  once  started 
afresh  in  the  right  way,  do  not  leave  it  again  and  return 
to  the  other.  So  have  I  seen  some  of  these  women  in  the 
two  countries  named  which  did  sin  no  more  after  being 
married,  but  others  that  could  never  reform,  and  went 
back  to  trip  and  stumble  in  the  old  ditch. 

The  first  time  ever  I  was  in  Italy,  I  fell  in  love  with  a 
very  beautiful  courtesan  of  Rome,  who  was  called  Faus- 
tina. But  seeing  I  had  no  great  wealth,  and  she  was  of 
a  very  high  price,  from  ten  to  twelve  crowns  a  night,  I 
was  constrained  to  content  me  with  words  and  looks  only. 
After  some  time  I  paid  a  second  visit  to  the  same  city, 
and  being  now  better  furnished  with  money,  I  went  to 
visit  her  at  her  lodging  by  the  introduction  of  another 
lady,  and  did  find  her  married  to  a  man  of  the  law,  though 
still  established  in  her  old  quarters.  She  did  welcome  me 
affectionately,  and  recounted  me  the  good  fortune  of  her 
marriage,  repudiating  altogether  the  follies  of  her  previ- 
ous life,  to  the  which  she  had  said  farewell  forever.  I 
did  then  show  her  an  handful  of  good  French  crowns,  for 
indeed  I  was  dying  of  love  for  her  worse  than  ever.  She 
was  tempted  at  the  sight  and  did  grant  me  that  I  longed 
for,  saying  how  in  concluding  marriage,  she  had  claimed 
and  agreed  with  her  husband  for  her  entire  liberty, — 
without  scandal,  however,  or  concealment,  and  only  at  the 

[135] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


price  of  a  large  sum,  —  to  the  end  the  pair  of  them  might 
live  in  affluence.  She  was  therefore  to  be  had  only  by 
wealthy  men;  and  to  them  he  would  yield  very  willingly, 
but  not  to  petty  customers  at  all.  Truly  here  was  a 
husband  cuckold  out  and  out,  in  bud  and  blossom  too. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  lady  of  the  great  world  who,  in 
concluding  marriage,  did  desire  and  stipulate  that  her 
husband  should  leave  her  at  Court  to  follow  the  pursuit 
of  love,  reserving  herself  alway  the  use  of  her  forest  of 
dead-wood  or  common  faggot  at  her  own  good  pleasure. 
However,  in  return,  she  was  to  give  him  every  month  a 
thousand  francs  for  his  little  indulgences  of  every  day. 
In  fact  the  one  thought  was  to  have  a  merry  life  of  it. 

Thus  it  is,  such  women  as  have  been  free,  cannot  easily 
refrain,  but  will  e'en  burst  the  strait  bars  of  the  doors 
imprisoning  them,  however  strong  these  be  and  well 
guarded,  wherever  gold  doth  clink  and  glitter.  Witness 
the  beauteous  daughter  of  King  Acrisius  (Danae),  who 
all  confined  and  imprisoned  in  her  great  tower  as  she 
was,  yet  did  feel  the  persuasive  drops  of  Jupiter's  fair 
rain  of  gold,  and  admit  the  same. 

Ah!  how  hard  it  is,  a  gallant  gentleman  of  my  ac- 
quaintance used  to  say,  to  safeguard  a  woman  which  is 
fair,  ambitious,  greedy  and  covetous  of  being  bravely 
attired,  and  richly  dressed,  gaily  decked  out  and  well 
appointed,  so  that  she  lay  not  cul  en  terre,  —  no  matter 
how  well  armed,  as  they  say,  her  fort  be,  and  however 
brave  and  valiant  a  man  her  husband  be,  and  albeit  he 
doth  carry  a  good  sword  to  defend  her  withal. 

I  have  known  so  many  of  these  same  brave  and  valiant 
folk  which  have  all  gone  this  road.  And  truly  'tis  great 
pity  to  see  these  honourable  and  brave  men  come  to  this, 

[136] 


iViw«w^irr^^^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ajyilty^jjjygiyijiyjltiafflfegit^^ 

and  that,  after  so  many  gallant  victories  won  by  them, 
so  many  notable  conquests  over  their  enemies  and  noble 
combats  decided  by  their  valour,  they  should  yet  be 
forced  to  carry  horns  intermingled  among  the  fair  flowers 
and  leaves  of  the  crowns  of  triumph  they  wear, — horns 
which  do  altogether  spoil  the  effect  thereof.  Yet  do  they 
think  far  more  of  their  high  ambitions  and  noble  com- 
bats, their  honourable  emprises  and  valiant  exploits,  than 
of  safeguarding  their  wives  and  throwing  light  on  their 
dark  places.  And  this  is  how,  without  more  ado,  they  do 
come  to  the  city  of  Cuckoldland  and  the  conquest  of  the 
same.  Yet  is  it  a  sore  pity.  For  instance,  I  once  knew 
a  very  brave  and  valiant  gentleman,  bearing  a  very  high 
name  and  title,  who  was  one  day  proudly  telling  over  his 
valiant  deeds  and  conquests,  when  a  very  honourable  and 
noble  gentleman,  his  comrade  and  friend,  who  was  pres- 
ent, did  say,  "Yes!  there  he  is  telling  us  of  all  his  won- 
derful conquests ;  but  truly  to  master  his  own  wife's  affair 
is  the  greatest  of  all  he  hath  ever  won,  or  ever  will!" 

Many  others  have  I  known,  who  no  matter  what  grace, 
majesty  and  proud  carriage  they  might  show,  yet  did 
every  one  display  that  look  of  the  cuckold  which  doth 
spoil  all  the  rest.  For  truly  this  look  and  defect  cannot 
ever  be  hid  or  dissembled;  no  confidence  of  bearing  and 
gesture  whatsoever  can  hinder  its  being  known  and  evi- 
dently noted.  And  for  myself,  never  have  I  seen  any 
one  of  these  folk  in  all  my  life  but  did  have  their  own  dis- 
tinctive marks,  gestures,  postures,  looks  and  defects, — 
excepting  only  one  I  knew  once,  in  whom  the  most  keen- 
sighted  could  have  found  naught  to  observe  or  take  hold 
of,  without  knowing  his  wife  as  well ;  such  an  easy  grace, 

[137] 


r«rttow»>ir/8\ir/«irrwSffi^ 


]®3&}i!m!®S^!$sy^f^^ 


pleasant  manners,  and  honourable,  dignified  deportment 
were  his. 

I  would  earnestly  beg  ladies  which  have  husbands  so 
perfect  not  to  play  them  such  tricks  and  put  such  affronts 
on  them.  But  then  they  might  in  their  turn  retort  upon 
me,  "Nay !  tell  us  where  are  to  be  found  these  perfect 
husbands,  such  as  was  the  man  whose  example  you  have 
just  quoted  to  us?" 

Verily,  ladies,  you  are  right ;  for  that  all  men  cannot  be 
Scipios  and  Caesars.  I  hold,  therefore,  that  herein  ye 
must  e'en  follow  your  fancies.  For  indeed,  speaking  of 
the  Caesars,  the  most  gallant  of  mankind  have  all  gone 
this  road,  and  the  most  virtuous  and  perfect,  as  I  have 
said  above  and  as  we  do  read  of  that  enlightened  Em- 
peror Trajan,2  whose  perfections,  however,  could  not  hin- 
der his  wife  Plotina  from  yielding  herself  up  entirely  to 
the  good  pleasure  of  Hadrian,  which  was  Emperor  after- 
ward. From  her  did  this  last  win  great  advantages, 
profits  and  aggrandisement,  so  much  so  that  she  was  the 
chief  cause  of  his  advancement.  Nor  was  he  in  any  wise 
ungrateful,  after  he  had  come  to  greatness,  for  he  did 
love  her  and  ever  honour  her  right  well.  And  after  her 
death  he  did  make  such  mourning  and  felt  such  sadness 
that  at  the  last  he  did  altogether  lose  all  wish  to  eat  and 
drink  for  a  while,  and  was  forced  to  tarry  in  Narbonese 
Gaul,  where  he  had  heard  the  sad  tidings,  three  or  four 
months,  during  which  time  he  writ  to  the  Senate  order- 
ing them  to  stablish  Plotina  in  the  number  of  the  God- 
desses, and  did  command  that  at  her  funeral  sacrifices, 
exceeding  rich  and  sumptuous,  should  be  offered.  Mean- 
time he  did  employ  his  leisure  in  building  and  raising  up, 
to  her  honour  and  memory,  a  very  beautiful  temple  near 

[138] 


^^ff(^iffA'f?^^ffs(M^f^fa^ 


^IJ«8i»«»»^(i|giJlS!iIJ^ 


Nemausus,  now  called  Nimes,  adorned  with  most  fair  and 
rich  marbles  and  porphyries,  with  other  gawds. 

See  then  how  in  matters  of  love  and  its  satisfaction, 
naught  at  all  can  be  laid  down  for  certain.  For  truly 
Cupid  the  God  thereof  is  blind,  as  doth  clearly  appear  in 
sundry  women,  which  having  husbands  as  handsome  and 
honourable  and  accomplished  as  can  anywhere  be  seen, 
yet  do  fall  in  love  with  other  men  as  ill-favoured  and 
foul  as  mortals  may  be. 

I  have  seen  many  cases  that  did  force  one  to  ask  this 
question :  Which  is  the  more  whorish  dame,  she  that  hath 
a  right  handsome  and  honourable  husband,  yet  taketh  an 
ill-favoured  lover,  one  that  is  evil-tempered  and  quite  un- 
like her  husband;  or  she  which  hath  an  ill-favoured  and 
ill-conditioned  husband,  and  doth  take  a  handsome,  agree- 
able lover,  and  yet  ceaseth  not  to  love  and  fondly  caress 
her  husband,  as  if  he  were  the  prince  of  men  for  beauty, 
— as  myself  have  seen  many  a  woman  do? 

Of  a  surety  the  common  voice  doth  declare  that  she 
which,  having  an  handsome  husband,  yet  doth  leave  the 
same  to  love  an  ill-favoured  lover  is  a  very  great  whore, 
— just  as  a  person  is  surely  a  foul  glutton  which  doth  quit 
good  food  to  eat  of  bad.  So  when  a  woman  doth  quit  an 
handsome  piece  to  take  up  with  an  ill-favoured,  it  hath 
all  the  semblance  of  her  doing  this  out  of  sheer  lecherous- 
ness,  seeing  there  is  naught  more  licentious  and  more 
fitted  to  satisfy  licentiousness  than  an  ugly  man,  with  a 
savour  more  after  the  fashion  of  a  stinking,  filthy  and 
lascivious  goat  than  of  a  proper  man.  And  in  very  deed 
handsome  and  honourable  men  are  something  more  deli- 
cate and  less  apt  to  satiate  an  excessive  and  unbridled 

[139] 


y^t?OTiftw«wrtr?sflr?»rtf?gvi^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


^t^i^i&flt^^^ 


wantonness  than  is  a  coarse,  bearded,  lewd  fellow,  some 
big  ramping  countrified  satyr. 

Others  maintain  that  the  woman  which  doth  love  a 
handsome  lover  and  an  ill-favoured  husband,  and  doth 
caress  them  both,  is  at  the  least  as  great  a  whore  as  the 
other,  for  that  she  is  fain  to  lose  naught  whatever  of  her 
ordinary  diet  and  sustenance. 

Such  women  are  like  them  that  travel  in  foreign  lands, 
yea !  and  in  France  to  boot,  which  being  arrived  at  night 
at  the  inn  to  supper,  do  never  forget  to  claim  of  mine  host 
the  wheeler's  measure.  Yea!  and  the  fellow  must  needs 
have  it  too,  albeit  he  should  be  full  of  good  liquor  to  the 
throat  already. 

So  will  these  dames,  when  night  comes,  never  be  without 
their  "wheeler's  measure," — as  was  the  way  with  one  I 
Icnew  well,  who  yet  had  a  husband  that  was  a  right  good 
performer.  Natheless  are  they  fain  to  increase  and  re- 
double their  pleasure  by  any  means  they  may,  liking  to 
have  the  lover  for  the  day,  which  doth  show  up  his  beauty 
and  so  make  the  lady  more  eager  for  the  fray,  and  give 
her  more  delight  and  satisfaction  by  reason  of  the  good 
daylight.  But  the  worthy  husband  with  his  ill-favoured 
face  is  kept  for  nighttime ;  for  truly,  as  they  say  all  cats 
are  grey  at  night,  and  provided  the  lady  have  satisfaction 
of  her  appetites,  she  recks  naught  whether  her  mate  is 
ill  or  well  favoured. 

Indeed,  as  I  learn  from  sundry,  when  one  is  in  these 
ecstasies  of  amorous  pleasure,  neither  man  nor  woman 
reck  aught  of  any  other  thing  or  thought  whatever,  but 
only  what  they  are  at  for  the  instant ;  albeit  on  the  other 
hand  I  have  it  on  good  authority  how  many  dames  have 
persuaded  their  lovers  that,  when  they  were  at  it  with  their 

[140] 


EsajaaaBisfflsiagiaaggBaiisg^^ 

LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

mm^fl!MlMli^^g!M!Ss^ 

husbands,  they  would  ever  give  their  thoughts  to  their 
lovers,  and  not  reck  at  all  of  their  husbands,  in  order  to 
get  the  greater  pleasure  therefrom.  So  likewise  have 
I  heard  husbands  declare  that  when  with  their  wives,  they 
would  be  alway  thinking  of  their  mistresses  with  the  like 
object.  But  these  be  disagreeable  subjects! 

Natural  philosophers  have  told  me  that  none  but  the 
present  object  of  passion  can  possibly  dominate  them  at 
this  crisis,  and  in  no  wise  the  absent ;  and  give  many  rea- 
sons for  their  opinion.  However  I  am  not  philosopher 
enough  nor  sufficiently  learned  to  contradict  them;  and 
besides  sundry  of  their  reasons  are  filthy  ones,  and  I  would 
fain  ever  preserve  decency.  But  for  these  predilections 
for  all-favoured  loves,  I  have  seen  many  such  in  my  day 
that  have  astonished  me  an  hundred  times  over. 

Returning  once  from  a  journey  in  a  foreign  land, — I 
will  not  give  the  name,  for  fear  men  should  recognise 
whereof  I  speak, — and  discoursing  with  a  noble  lady  of 
the  great  world,  I  chanced  to  speak  of  another  great  lady 
and  Princess,  the  which  I  had  seen  in  those  parts ;  where- 
upon she  did  ask  me  as  to  this  latter's  love  affairs.  So 
I  told  her  the  name  of  the  personage  whom  she  held  fa- 
vourite, one  that  was  neither  handsome  nor  of  graceful 
presence,  and  of  very  low  degree.  Her  reply  was, 
"Verily  she  doth  herself  great  wrong,  and  eke  plays  love 
a  sorry  trick,  seeing  she  is  so  fair  and  honourable  a  lady, 
as  all  men  hold." 

And  the  said  lady  was  surely  right  in  the  language 
she  held,  for  that  herself  did  act  accordingly,  and  gainsaid 
not  her  opinions.  For  she  had  a  worthy  and  honourable 
lover,  whom  she  cherished  right  well.  And  when  all  is 
said,  a  fair  lady  will  be  doing  no  harm  in  loving,  if  only 

[141] 


i?«tit?Mfri\ifoY.r?8rifaY.r/svifrM 


^H^^t*s^ji*i^ji^^i^iis^t^^ 


she  will  choose  a  worthy  object  of  her  love,  nor  wronging 
her  husband  neither, — if  for  no  other  reason,  at  least  for 
the  sake  of  their  descendants.  This,  seeing  there  be  hus- 
bands that  are  so  ill-favoured,  so  stupid,  senseless  and 
silly,  so  graceless  and  cowardly,  so  poor  spirited  and  good 
for  naught,  that  their  wives,  having  children  of  them 
and  like  them,  might  as  well  have  none  at  all.  And  in- 
deed myself  have  known  many  ladies,  which  have  borne 
children  to  suchlike  husbands,  and  these  have  been  all  of 
them  just  like  their  fathers;  yet  afterward,  when  they 
have  e'en  borrowed  one  or  two  from  their  lovers,  these 
have  surpassed  their  supposed  fathers,  their  brothers  and 
sisters  in  all  things  whatsoever. 

Some,  moreover,  among  philosophers  which  have  treated 
of  this  matter,  have  always  maintained  how  that  children 
thus  borrowed  by  stealth,  or  stolen,  if  you  will,  thus  en- 
gendered under  the  rose,  and  on  the  spur  of  the  moment, 
are  ever  far  more  gallant,  and  recall  more  the  merry 
fashion  wherein  they  are  used  to  be  created,  nimbly  and 
cleverly,  than  such  as  are  begot  in  bed,  heavily,  dully, 
ponderously,  at  leisure,  their  parents  more  than  half 
asleep  the  while,  giving  never  a  thought  but  of  brutish 
satisfaction  to  the  pleasure  in  hand. 

In  like  wise  have  I  heard  them  that  have  charge  of  the 
stud-farms  of  kings  and  great  lords  say  how  they  have 
many  a  time  seen  better  foals  got  stealthily  by  their  dams 
than  others  bred  with  every  precaution  by  the  masters  of 
the  stud,  and  from  stallions  specially  chosen  and  assigned 
thereto.  And  so  it  is  with  human  beings. 

How  many  cases  have  I  seen  where  ladies  have  borne 
handsomer  and  braver  and  more  excellent  children  than 
they  would  have  done,  if  the  putative  fathers  had  really 

[142] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


begotten  them, — mere  calves  and  brute  beasts  as  they 
would  then  have  been. 

A  good  reason  why  women  are  well  advised  to  seek  the 
help  and  commodity  of  good  and  handsome  stallions,  to 
the  end  they  may  produce  good  offspring.  Yet  I  have 
seen  on  the  other  hand  some  which  had  handsome  hus- 
bands, but  did  nevertheless  call  in  the  aid  of  ill-favoured 
lovers  and  base  stallions,  which  did  beget  ugly  and  evil- 
conditioned  descendants. 

This  indeed  is  one  of  the  most  signal  commodities  and 
incommodities  of  the  state  of  cuckoldry. 

I  once  knew  a  great  lady  of  society  which  had  an  ex- 
ceeding ill-favoured  and  ill-bred  husband;  and  of  four 
girls  and  two  boys  she  had,  there  were  only  two  good  for 
aught,  being  children  of  her  lover,  while  the  others,  com- 
ing of  her  scrub  of  a  husband, — I  had  all  but  said  her 
screech-owl  of  a  husband,  for  truly  he  had  all  the  look  of 
one, — were  but  poor  misbegotten  creatures. 

Now  herein  doth  it  behoove  ladies  to  be  very  well  ad- 
vised and  cunning  withal,  for  as  a  rule  children  do  resem- 
ble their  fathers,  and  whenas  they  do  not  so,  bring  grave 
suspicion  on  their  mothers'  honour.  So  have  I  seen  in 
my  life  many  fair  ladies  possessed  of  this  craze,  to  have  it 
said  and  thought  of  all  the  world  that  their  children  do 
altogether  resemble  their  father  and  not  themselves, 
though  really  they  are  not  the  least  like  them.  For  to  say 
so  is  the  greatest  pleasure  one  can  do  them,  seeing  there 
is  then  presumption  they  have  not  borrowed  them  from 
any  other,  however  opposite  the  truth  may  really  be. 

One  time  I  was  present  at  a  great  assemblage  of  the 
Court,  whereat  folk  were  discussing  the  portraits  of  two 
daughters  of  a  certain  very  great  Queen.  Each  stated 

[143] 


gWS^^ 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


SJ»B^li8!^!^l^!«KU3iliJ9i!^ 


his  opinion  as  to  whom  they  did  resemble,  in  such  wise 
that  all,  men  and  women,  declared  they  took  altogether 
after  the  mother.  But  I,  being  a  most  humble  servant 
and  admirer  of  the  mother,  did  hold  the  other  side,  and 
maintained  stoutly  they  took  entirely  after  the  father, 
and  that  if  only  they  had  known  and  seen  the  same  as 
intimately  as  I  had,  they  would  grant  me  it  was  so. 
Whereupon  the  Queen's  sister  did  thank  me  for  my  words, 
and  was  exceeding  grateful  to  me,  seeing  there  were  sun- 
dry persons,  which  did  say  what  they  did,  of  set  purpose, 
to  raise  suspicion  of  her  going  astray  in  love, — the  more 
that  there  was  something  of  dust  in  her  flute,  as  the  say- 
ing is.  Thus  did  my  judgement  as  to  the  children's  like- 
ness to  their  father  put  all  right  again.  Wherefore  in 
this  matter,  whosoever  shall  love  a  lady  and  shall  be 
looking  upon  children  of  her  blood  and  bone,  let  him 
alway  declare  these  do  take  after  the  father  altogether, 
whether  it  be  so  or  no. 

True  they  will  do  no  hurt,  if  they  maintain  the  chil- 
dren take  a  little  after  the  mother,  as  was  said  by  a  gen- 
tleman of  the  Court,  a  chief  friend  of  mine,  speaking  in 
company  of  two  gentlemen,  brothers  and  high  favourites 
with  the  King.  Being  asked  which  they  were  like,  the 
father  or  mother,  he  did  make  answer  that  the  one  which 
was  cold  was  like  the  father,  and  the  other,  which  was  hot, 
the  mother.  By  this  quip  giving  a  pretty  stroke  at  the 
mother,  who  was  of  a  somewhat  hot  complexion.  And  as 
a  matter  of  fact  these  two  children  did  partake  of  these 
two  several  humours,  the  hot  and  the  cold. 

There  is  yet  another  sort  of  cuckolds,  they  which  are 
made  such  by  reason  of  the  scorn  they  show  their  wives. 
Thus  I  have  known  several  who,  though  having  fair  and 

[144] 


BTWWggfSWWWftlffWKIgWff^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

JM^I^I^BMffiMil^lR^^ 

honourable  dames  to  wife,  did  take  no  account  of  them, 
but  would  ever  scorn  and  disdain  them.  These  being 
sharp  of  wit  and  full  of  spirit,  and  of  good  family  to  boot, 
seeing  themselves  so  disdained,  did  proceed  to  pay  them 
back  in  their  own  coin.  Quick  was  there  fine  love  mak- 
ing, and  quick  the  accomplishment  of  the  same;  for  as 
saith  the  Italian  and  Neapolitan  catch,  amor  non  si  vince 
con  altro  che  con  sdegno — "love  si  mastered  by  scorn, 
and  scorn  only." 

For  so  a  fair  and  honourable  lady,  and  one  that  doth 
know  herself  such  and  taketh  pride  therein,  seeing  her 
husband  treating  her  with  mere  disdain,  though  she  should 
bear  him  the  fondest  wifely  love  in  the  world,  and  albeit 
they  should  preach  and  put  before  her  all  the  commands 
of  the  law  to  love  and  honour  him,  yet  if  she  have  the  least 
spark  of  spirit,  will  she  leave  him  in  the  lurch  and  take  a 
lover  elsewhere  to  help  her  in  her  little  needs,  and  choose 
her  out  some  private  pleasure  of  her  own. 

I  knew  once  two  ladies  of  the  Court,  that  were  sisters- 
in-law.  Of  these  the  one  had  married  an  husband  which 
was  high  in  favour,  a  courtier  and  an  adroit  one.  Yet 
did  he  not  make  such  account  of  his  wife  as  it  behooved, 
seeing  the  birth  she  was  of,  but  would  speak  to  her  before 
company  as  she  were  a  mere  savage,  and  treat  her  very 
roughly.  This  behaviour  she  did  endure  patiently  for  a 
while,  till  at  length  the  husband  did  fall  something  out 
of  favour.  Then  noting  her  opportunity  and  taking  it 
cleverly  as  it  came,  having  indeed  waited  for  a  good  one, 
she  straightway  paid  him  back  the  scorn  he  had  put  on 
her,  lightly  and  gaily  making  the  poor  man  cuckold.  And 
her  sister  did  likewise,  following  her  example.  This  last 
had  been  wed  when  very  young  and  of  tender  years,  so 

[145] 


SrwffwirwfiWfratiftSiffwfr^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

afeaaytift^i&ai&aii^tBi^tiis^^^ 

that  her  husband  took  no  great  heed  of  her,  deeming  her 
a  mere  chit  and  child,  and  did  not  love  her  as  he  should. 
But  she  coming  to  a  riper  time  of  life,  and  finding  out 
she  had  a  heart  and  was  fair  to  look  on,  did  soon  pay  him 
back  in  his  own  coin,  and  so  made  him  a  present  of  a  fine 
pair  of  horns  by  way  of  interest  on  his  past  neglect. 

Another  time  I  knew  a  great  Lord,  which  having  taken 
two  courtesans  into  favour,  whereof  one  was  a  Moorish 
woman,  to  be  his  delight  and  joy  of  heart,  did  make  no 
account  of  his  wife,  albeit  she  did  seek  to  him  with  all 
due  respect,  and  all  the  wifely  love  and  reverence  ever 
she  could.  Yet  could  he  never  look  upon  her  with  a  fa- 
vourable eye,  or  cherish  her  with  a  good  grace,  and  of  an 
hundred  nights  he  would  hardly  bestow  twain  on  her. 
What  must  she  do  then,  the  poor  girl,  after  so  many 
indignities,  but  what  she  did, — choose  another  vacant  bed, 
and  couple  with  another  better  half,  and  so  take  that  she 
was  fain  of?  . 

At  least  she  had  been  justified,  if  the  husband  had  been 
like  another  I  know  of,  who  was  of  a  like  humour,  and 
being  pressed  by  his  wife,  a  very  fair  lady  and  one  that 
did  take  her  joy  elsewhere  than  at  home,  did  tell  her 
frankly :  "Well !  well !  take  your  pleasures  abroad ;  I  give 
you  full  leave.  Do  on  your  part  what  you  please  with 
another;  I  leave  you  in  perfect  liberty.  Only  make  no 
trouble  about  my  amours,  and  suffer  me  to  do  as  I  like. 
I  will  never  hinder  your  pleasures  and  satisfaction;  so 
do  not  you  hinder  mine."  So,  each  independent  of  the 
other,  the  twain  did  go  forth  on  their  merry  way,  one 
to  right,  the  other  to  left,  without  a  thought  or  care  for 
one  another;  a  good  and  happy  life  truly! 

No  less  should  I  commend  a  certain  old  man  I  knew 

[146] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

:aMiMiMia^aiyiayiiMi&s^^ 

once,  who  being  impotent,  sickly  and  gouty,  did  say  thus 
one  fine  day  to  his  wife,  who  was  very  fair,  seeing  clearly 
he  could  not  satisfy  her  as  she  was  fain  to  be  dealt  with  : 
"I  know  right  well,  my  pretty,  how  that  my  impotence 
accords  ill  with  your  heartsome  years.  This  may  well 
make  me  odious  to  you,  and  render  it  impossible  to  you 
to  be  my  loving  wife,  as  if  I  could  to  you  the  regular 
offices  a  strong,  robust  husband  should.  So  I  have 
thought  good  to  suffer  you  and  grant  you  full  freedom 
to  love  some  other,  and  borrow  one  that  may  satisfy  you 
better  than  I  can.  But  above  all,  I  pray  you  choose  out 
one  that  is  discreet  and  modest,  and  will  in  no  wise  bring 
scandal  on  you,  nor  on  me  neither.  And  may  he  make 
you  a  pair  of  fine  lads,  the  which  I  will  love  and  rear  as 
my  own,  in  such  wise  that  all  men  shall  think  them  our 
own  true  and  lawful  offspring.  And  this  is  the  more 
possible,  seeing  I  have  still  in  me  some  show  of  vigour  and 
strength,  and  appearance  enough  of  bodily  manhood  to 
make  folk  suppose  them  mine." 

I  leave  you  to  suppose  whether  the  fair  girl  was  glad 
to  receive  this  agreeable  little  homily,  and  free  leave  to 
enjoy  such  pleasing  liberty.  This  she  did  turn  to  such 
good  account  that  in  a  twinkling  she  did  people  the  house 
with  two  or  three  fine  infants,  wherein  the  husband,  inas- 
much as  he  did  touch  her  at  times  and  sleep  with  her, 
might  deem  he  had  some  share,  and  did  actually  think  so, 
and  the  neighbours  and  every  one.  In  such  wise  were 
both  husband  and  wife  well  pleased,  and  had  good  prog- 
eny, to  boot. 

Here  again  is  another  sort  of  cuckolds,  they  which  are 
made  so  by  reason  of  an  amiable  opinion  certain  women 
hold,  to  wit  that  there  is  no  thing  nobler  and  more  lawful 

[147] 


igw^l^ffTwwftlgw;^^^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


«!»i!^(^^t^ 


and  more  commendable  than  Charity.  And  by  Charity 
they  say  they  mean  not  merely  giving  to  the  poor  who 
have  need  of  succour  and  assistance  from  the  wealth  and 
abundance  of  the  rich,  but  likewise  helping  to  assuage 
the  flames  of  poor  languishing  lovers  that  one  sees  con- 
suming with  the  fire  of  an  ardent  passion.  "For  of  a 
truth,"  they  declare,  "what  can  be  more  charitable  than 
to  restore  life  to  one  we  see  dying,  and  to  quite  refresh 
again  the  man  thus  consuming  away?"  So  says  that 
brave  Paladin,  the  Seigneur  de  Montauban,  upholding  the 
fair  Genevra  in  Ariosto,  who  doth  maintain  that  of  rights 
the  woman  should  die,  which  robs  her  lover  of  life,  and 
not  she  who  gives  it  him. 

This  did  he  say  of  a  maid,  and  if  it  be  true  of  a  maid, 
then  much  more  are  suchlike  deeds  of  Charity  commend- 
able in  wives  even  more  than  in  maids,  seeing  these  have 
not  their  purses  untied  and  open  yet  like  married  women, 
— the  which,  or  at  any  rate  some  among  them,  have  these 
same  exceeding  ample  and  well  adapted  to  enlarge  their 
charities ! 

Which  doth  remind  me  of  a  tale  of  a  very  fair  lady 
of  the  Court,  who  did  attire  herself  for  a  Candlemas-tide 
all  in  a  dress  of  white  damask,  with  all  else  white  to  match, 
so  that  naught  that  day  did  look  fairer  or  more  white. 
Then  did  the  lady's  lover  win  over  one  of  her  companions, 
which  likewise  was  a  very  fair  lady,  but  somewhat  older 
and  better  skilled  in  speech,  and  well  fitted  to  intercede 
for  him.  So,  whenas  they  all  three  were  looking  at  a  very 
fine  picture,  wherein  was  depicted  Charity  clad  all  in  white 
with  a  white  veil,  this  last  did  say  to  her  friend:  "You 
do  wear  this  day  the  same  dress  as  Charity  here;  but 
seeing  you  do  resemble  her  in  attire,  you  should  be  like 

[148] 


ffwfflgwwg^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

JSM!3^!iy^-gii^*3^MiMlM^^ 

her  too  as  concerneth  your  lover,  there  being  no  other 
thing  more  commendable  than  good  pity  and  sweet  char- 
ity, in  whatsoever  way  it  be  showed  forth,  provided  always 
it  be  with  good  will  to  help  one's  neighbour.  Therefore 
be  charitable;  but  if  you  have  the  fear  of  your  husband 
and  the  sanctity  of  wedlock  before  your  eyes,  why!  'tis 
a  vain  superstition  we  women  should  never  entertain,  see- 
ing how  nature  hath  given  us  good  things  in  divers  sorts, 
not  to  use  the  same  niggardly,  like  some  vile  miserly  hag 
with  her  treasure  hoard,  but  rather  to  distribute  them 
generously  to  poor  suffering  mortals  and  men  in  dire 
straits.  True  it  is  our  chastity  doth  resemble  a  treasure, 
which  it  behooves  us  be  niggard  of  on  base  occasions ;  but 
for  high  and  noble  ones,  we  should  dispense  thereof  lib- 
erally and  without  stint.  In  like  wise  ought  we  to  deal 
with  our  chastity,  the  which  we  must  yield  up  generously 
to  folk  of  merit  and  desert,  and  ill-fortune  to  boot,  but 
refuse  to  such  as  be  vile,  worthless,  and  such  as  do  not 
stand  in  need.  As  for  our  husbands,  truly  these  be  fine 
idols,  for  us  never  to  pay  our  vows  and  candles  to  any 
but  them  only,  and  never  to  visit  other  handsome  images ! 
For  'tis  to  God  alone  we  do  owe  absolute  and  unbroken 
allegiance,  and  to  no  man." 

Now  this  discourse  was  in  no  wise  displeasing  to  the 
lady,  and  did  much  advantage  the  lover,  who  by  help  of 
a  little  perseverance,  did  presently  reap  the  benefit 
thereof.  Yet  are  Charity  sermons  of  the  sort  right  dan- 
gerous for  the  unhappy  husbands.  I  have  heard  tell  (I 
know  not  whether  it  be  true,  so  I  will  not  say  for  certain 
it  is  so),  how  at  the  beginning  when  the  Huguenots  did 
first  establish  their  religion,  and  they  would  be  holding 
their  preachings  at  night  and  in  secret  places,  for  fear 

[149] 


ftYjftWrtrafl^r/ftmstf^^ 


i>jjjjta<ii^ix«Ki^^i^Ji^i^^^ 


of  being  surprised,  sought  out  and  punished,  whenas  one 
day  they  were  thus  in  the  Rue  St.  Jacques  at  Paris,  in 
the  days  of  King  Henri  II.,  certain  great  ladies  resorting 
thither  to  receive  this  Charity,  were  all  but  caught  in  the 
act.  After  the  Minister  had  done  his  sermon,  at  the 
end  thereof  he  did  recommend  them  to  be  charitable; 
whereupon  without  more  ado  they  did  extinguish  the 
lights,  and  on  the  spot  each  man  and  woman  did  exercise 
the  same  towards  his  or  her  brother  or  sister  in  Christ, 
dispensing  it  one  to  the  other  according  to  the  good  will 
and  ability  of  each.  But  this  I  dare  not  assert  right  out, 
though  I  have  been  assured  'tis  a  true  thing.  Yet  on 
the  contrary  'tis  very  possible  the  whole  is  a  mere  lie 
and  imposture. 

At  any  rate  I  know  this  much  well,  how  at  Poitiers 
there  dwelt  at  that  time  a  certain  advocate's  wife,  known 
by  the  name  of  the  fair  Gotterelle,  whom  myself  have 
seen,  which  was  one  of  the  most  beautiful  women  of  her 
day,  of  the  most  charming  grace  and  shape,  and  one  of 
the  most  desirable  dames  in  all  the  town  at  that  time. 
Wherefore  was  every  man  fain  to  be  making  eyes  at  the 
same,  and  laying  of  his  heart  at  her  feet.  She  was  one 
day  at  the  end  of  sermon  time  handled  by  a  round  dozen 
of  student  lads,  one  after  the  other,  whether  in  the  Con- 
sistory or  under  some  pent-house,  or  as  I  have  heard  some 
say,  under  a  gallows  in  the  Old  Market, — at  any  rate 
without  her  having  made  one  single  outcry  or  refusal. 
Rather,  asking  only  the  text  of  the  sermon  for  password, 
she  did  welcome  them  one  after  other  right  courteously, 
as  her  true  brothers  in  Christ.  This  gentle  alms-giving 
she  did  long  continue  afterward  towards  them,  yet  would 
she  never  bestow  one  farthing's  worth  on  any  Papist. 

[150] 


r/rt.r/8tii^yrtr/8dr^r/»iry^r^r^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Yet  were  there  sundry  of  that  faith  which,  borrowing  of 
the  Huguenot  comrades  the  word  and  the  jargon  of  their 
meeting-house,  did  enjoy  her  favours.  Others  again 
would  resort  to  the  sermonizing  expressly  for  this  cause, 
and  pretend  to  be  converted,  to  learn  the  secret  and  so 
have  pleasure  of  this  beauteous  dame.  I  was  then  at 
Poitiers  as  a  student  lad,  and  several  good  comrades  of 
mine,  who  had  their  share  of  her  favour,  did  assure  me 
of  the  fact,  and  swear  to  it;  moreover  the  general  bruit 
in  the  place  did  confirm  the  same.  Verily  a  delectable 
and  charitable  deed  to  do,  and  a  right  conscientious  lady 
thus  to  make  choice  and  preference  of  her  fellow  re- 
ligionists ! 

Yet  another  form  of  Charity  is  there,  which  is  oft  times 
practised  towards  poor  prisoners  who  are  shut  up  in 
dungeons  and  robbed  of  all  enjoyments  with  women.  On 
such  do  the  gaolers'  wives  and  women  that  have  charge 
over  them,  or  chatelaines  who  have  prisoners  of  war  in 
their  Castle,  take  pity  and  give  them  share  of  their  love 
out  of  very  charity  and  mercifulness.  Thus  did  a  certain 
Roman  courtesan  say  once  to  her  daughter,  of  whom  a 
gallant  was  deeply  enamoured,  but  she  would  never  be- 
stow on  him  so  much  as  a  farthing's  worth:  E  dagli,  al 
manco  por  misericordia, — "Well,  well !  do  him  charity  then 
for  pity's  sake." 

Thus  do  these  gaolers'  wives,  noble  chatelaines  and 
others,  treat  their  prisoners,  the  which,  captive  and  un- 
happy though  they  be,  yet  cease  not  for  that  to  feel  the 
prickings  of  the  flesh,  as  much  as  ever  they  did  in  their 
best  days.  As  saith  the  old  proverb,  "Longing  cometh 
of  lacking,"  so  even  in  the  straw  and  on  the  hard  ground, 

[151] 


grsaffwwwwwwsg*w^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


my  lord  Priapus  will  still  be  lifting  his  head,  as  well  as 
on  the  best  and  softest  bed  in  all  the  world. 

Hence  it  cometh  that  beggars  and  prisoners,  in  their 
lazar-houses  and  prisons,  are  just  as  wanton  as  Kings, 
Princes  and  great  folk  in  their  rich  Palaces  and  on  their 
royal  and  dainty  couches. 

To  confirm  what  I  say,  I  will  instance  a  tale  that  Cap- 
tain Beaulieu,  Captain  of  the  King's  Galleys,  of  whom  I 
have  before  spoke  once  and  again,  did  tell  me.  He  was 
in  the  service  of  the  late  Grand  Prior  of  France,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  house  of  Lorraine,  who  was  much  attached 
to  him.  Going  one  time  to  take  his  patron  on  board  at 
Malta  in  a  frigate,  he  was  taken  by  the  Sicilian  galleys, 
and  carried  prisoner  to  the  Castel-a-mare  at  Palermo, 
where  he  was  shut  up  in  an  exceeding  narrow,  dark  and 
wretched  dungeon,  and  very  ill  entreated  by  the  space  of 
three  months.  By  good  hap  the  Governor  of  the  Castle, 
who  was  a  Spaniard,  had  two  very  fair  daughters,  who 
hearing  him  complaining  and  making  moan,  did  one  day 
ask  leave  of  their  father  to  visit  him,  for  the  honour  of 
the  good  God;  and  this  he  did  freely  give  them  permis- 
sion to  do.  And  seeing  the  Captain  was  of  a  surety  a 
right  gallant  gentleman,  and  as  ready-tongued  as  most, 
he  was  able  so  to  win  them  over  at  this,  the  very  first 
visit,  that  they  did  gain  their  father's  leave  for  him  to 
quit  his  wretched  dungeon  and  to  be  put  in  a  seemly 
enough  chamber  and  receive  better  treatment.  Nor  was 
this  all,  for  they  did  crave  and  get  permission  to  come 
and  see  him  freely  every  day  and  converse  with  him. 

And  this  did  fall  out  so  well  that  presently  both  the 
twain  of  them  were  in  love  with  him,  albeit  he  was  not 

[152] 


*H*g^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


handsome  to  look  upon,  and  they  very  fair  ladies.  And 
so,  without  a  thought  of  the  chance  of  more  rigorous 
imprisonment  or  even  death,  but  rather  tempted  by  such 
opportunities,  he  did  set  himself  to  the  enjoyment  of  the 
two  girls  with  good  will  and  hearty  appetite.  And  these 
pleasures  did  continue  without  any  scandal,  for  so  fortu- 
nate was  he  in  this  conquest  of  his  for  the  space  of  eight 
whole  months,  that  no  scandal  did  ever  hap  all  that  time, 
and  no  ill,  inconvenience,  nor  any  surprise  or  discovery 
at  all.  For  indeed  the  two  sisters  had  so  good  an  under- 
standing between  them  and  did  so  generously  lend  a  hand 
to  each  other  and  so  obligingly  play  sentinel  to  one  an- 
other, that  no  ill  hap  did  ever  occur.  And  he  sware  to 
me,  being  my  very  intimate  friend  as  he  was,  that  never 
in  his  days  of  greatest  liberty  had  he  enjoyed  so  excellent 
entertainment  or  felt  keener  ardour  or  better  appetite 
for  it  than  in  the  said  prison, — which  truly  was  a  right 
good  prison  for  him,  albeit  folk  say  no  prison  can  be 
good.  And  this  happy  time  did  continue  for  the  space 
of  eight  months,  till  the  truce  was  made  betwixt  the 
Emperor  and  Henri  II.,  King  of  France,  whereby  all  pris- 
oners did  leave  their  dungeons  and  were  released.  He 
sware  that  never  was  he  more  grieved  than  at  quitting 
this  good  prison  of  his,  but  was  exceeding  sorry  to  leave 
these  fair  maids,  with  whom  he  was  in  such  high  favour, 
and  who  did  express  all  possible  regrets  at  his  departing. 
I  did  ask  him  if  ever  he  apprehended  ill  consequences, 
if  he  were  discovered.  To  which  he  made  reply,  he  most 
certainly  did,  yet  was  not  afeared  thereof.  For  at  the 
worst  they  would  but  have  put  him  to  death,  and  he  had 
rather  have  died  than  go  back  to  his  first  dungeon. 
Moreover  he  was  afraid,  if  he  had  failed  to  gratify  these 

[153] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

honourable  maids,  seeing  they  sought  to  him  so  eagerly, 
that  they  would  have  conceived  so  sore  a  despite  and  dis- 
dain against  him,  that  he  would  have  gotten  some  worse 
treatment  even  than  afore.  Wherefore,  close  shutting  his 
eyes  to  all  consequences,  he  did  adventure  boldly  on  this 
merry  emprise. 

Many  another  adventure  of  the  sort  is  related  in  our 
land  of  France,  as  of  the  Due  d'Arschot,  who  when  a 
prisoner  in  the  Bois  de  Vincennes,  did  escape  by  the  help 
of  an  honourable  lady;  the  which  lady  however  was  like 
to  have  suffered  sore  for  it,  seeing  'twas  a  matter  of  the 
King's  service.  And  indeed  suchlike  deeds  of  charity 
are  blameworthy,  if  they  do  touch  the  general  weal, 
though  very  good  and  commendable,  when  only  the  indi- 
vidual is  concerned,  and  the  lover's  life  and  his  mistress's 
only  endangered.  In  this  there  is  scant  hurt. 

I  could  instance  many  fine  examples  pertinent  to  this 
matter,  if  I  were  desirous  of  writing  a  separate  discourse 
thereon, — and  insooth  'twould  be  by  no  means  an  un- 
amusing  subject.  However  I  will  but  quote  the  following 
one,  and  no  other  beside,  for  the  sake  of  telling  a  pleas- 
ant and  classic  tale. 

We  read  in  Livy  how,  after  the  Romans  had  utterly 
destroyed  the  town  of  Capua,  certain  inhabitants  of  that 
city  did  come  to  Rome  to  represent  their  unhappj7  state 
to  the  Senate,  and  beseech  the  Fathers  to  have  pity  on 
them.  The  matter  was  debated  and  amongst  others 
which  did  pronounce  an  opinion  was  M.  Atilius  Regulus, 
who  did  maintain  they  should  show  no  mercy  whatever. 
"For  he  could  in  no  wise  discover,"  he  declared,  "any  sin- 
gle Capuan,  since  the  revolting  of  their  city,  who  could 
be  said  to  have  displayed  the  least  atom  of  friendliness 

[154] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

SMisziga&^ai!*^m%Mi^^ 

or  affection  for  the  Roman  State,  except  only  two  honour- 
able women,"  —  the  one  Vestia  Oppia,  an  Atellane,  from 
the  city  of  Atella,  domiciled  at  Capua  at  the  time,  and  the 
other,  one  Faucula  Cluvia,  both  of  whom  had  been  afore- 
time ladies  of  pleasure  and  courtesans,  plying  their  trade 
publicly  in  that  city.  The  one  had  let  never  a  day  pass 
without  offering  up  prayers  and  sacrifices  for  the  success 
and  victory  of  the  Roman  People,  while  the  other  had 
deserved  well  for  having  by  stealth  succoured  with  victuals 
the  poor  prisoners  of  war,  dying  of  hunger  and  misery. 
Verily  good  and  pious  deeds  of  Charity  these!  But 
hereanent,  a  noble  gentleman,  an  honourable  lady  and 
myself  reading  of  this  passage  of  Livy  together  one  day, 
we  did  suddenly  exclaim  one  to  the  other,  how  seeing 
these  two  honourable  dames  had  gone  thus  far  and  had 
performed  such  good  and  pious  offices,  that  doubtless  they 
had  gone  on  to  yet  others,  and  had  bestowed  on  the  poor 
prisoners  the  charity  of  their  fair  bodies.  For  indeed  in 
former  days  they  had  distributed  these  same  alms  to  other 
folk,  being  then  courtesans,  or  mayhap  being  so  still. 
Still  the  book  doth  not  say  so,  but  leaveth  this  point  in 
doubt;  yet  may  we  guess  how  'twas.  But  even  granting 
they  had  of  yore  plied  this  trade,  but  had  now  left  it  off 
for  some  space,  yet  might  they  very  well  have  taken  it  up 
again,  nothing  being  more  easy  and  facile  to  do.  Then 
likely  enough  they  did  recognise  and  once  again  receive 
some  of  the  good  lovers  of  their  former  acquaintance,  and 
were  now  ready  to  return  once  more  somewhat  on  their 
old  courses.  Or  again  'tis  quite  likely  that  among  the 
prisoners,  they  may  have  seen  some,  hitherto  unknown  and 
which  they  had  never  set  eyes  on  but  this  once,  and  found 
the  same  handsome,  brave,  valiant  and  well-liking  gal- 

[155] 


w^Braiygitf^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


lants,  that  did  well  deserve  all  their  charity,  and  so  could 
they  do  no  otherwise  than  grant  them  full  enjoyment  of 
their  good  favours. 

Thus,  in  whatsoever  way  it  came  about,  did  these  hon- 
ourable ladies  well  earn  the  courtesy  which  the  Roman 
Commonwealth  showed  them,  making  them  to  recover  all 
their  goods,  and  assuring  them  the  peaceable  enjoyment 
of  the  same  for  all  time.  Nay!  more,  they  did  make 
known  to  them  how  they  might  ask  what  they  would,  and 
they  should  have  their  request.  And  to  speak  candidly, 
if  Titus  Livy  had  not  been  so  reticent  and  unduly  con- 
strained by  shamefacedness  and  overmodesty,  he  might 
very  well  have  spoke  right  out  about  these  ladies,  and 
said  plainly  they  did  not  grudge  the  favour  of  their  fair 
bodies.  So  would  this  passage  of  History  have  been  yet 
more  excellent  and  entertaining  to  peruse,  had  he  not 
thus  docked  his  narrative,  and  left  sticking  at  his  pen- 
point  the  best  part  of  the  tale.  Such  was  the  discourse 
we  three  did  hold  thereon  at  the  time. 


13. 

JJING  JOHN  of  France,1  when  a  prisoner  in 
England,  did  in  like-wise  receive  many  marks 
of  favour  from  the  Countess  of  Salisbury, 
and  such  pleasant  ones  that,  not  being  able 
to  forget  the  same  and  the  titbits  she  bestowed  on  him, 
he  did  return  once  more  to  see  her  again,  as  she  had  made 
him  swear  and  promise  he  would  do. 

Other  ladies  there  be  which  are  complaisant  herein  up 
to  a  certain  point  of  conscience  and  charity.  Of  this 
sort  was  one  which  would  never  suffer  her  lover,  sleep 

[156] 


finfl^lfoMfcWa^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

Mmma&gKaisas^a&aR35^^ 

with  her  as  oft  as  he  might,  to  kiss  her  the  least  in  the 
world  on  the  lips,  giving  as  her  reason  that  'twas  her 
mouth  had  made  the  oath  of  faith  and  fealty  to  her 
husband,  and  she  would  fain  not  foul  the  same  by  way 
of  the  very  mouth  that  hade  made  and  taken  it.  But  as 
for  that  of  the  body,  the  which  had  said  never  a  word  and 
promised  naught,  this  she  did  let  him  do  with  at  his  good 
pleasure,  and  made  no  scruple  to  yield  to  her  lover,  seeing 
it  is  not  in  the  competence  of  the  upper  part  to  pledge 
itself  for  the  lower,  any  more  than  for  the  lower  for  the 
upper.  For  that  the  custom  of  Law  doth  say  that  none 
can  bind  himself  for  another  without  the  consent  and 
word  of  either  party,  nor  one  only  for  the  whole. 

Another  most  conscientious  and  scrupulous  dame,  when 
granting  her  friend  enjoyment  of  her,  would  always  take 
the  upper  station  and  bring  her  man  under  her,  never 
abating  one  jot  of  this  rule.  For,  by  observing  the  same 
straitly  and  regularly,  she  would  say,  if  her  husband  or 
any  other  did  ask  whether  such  an  one  had  done  to  her, 
that  she  could  deny  even  on  oath,  and  assuredly  protest, 
without  sinning  against  God,  that  never  had  he  done  so 
with  her.  This  oath  she  did  so  emphatically  make  as  to 
quite  satisfy  her  husband  and  others  by  dint  of  her  con- 
fident swearing  in  answer  to  their  questions.  So  did  they 
credit  her  in  what  she  alleged,  "yet  had  never  the  wit," 
she  would  say,  "to  demand  if  ever  she  had  taken  the 
upper  part  herself;  by  the  which  question  they  would 
have  brought  much  scorn  on  me,"  she  said,  "and  sore 
trouble  of  mind." 

Methinks  I  have  before  now  spoke  of  this  point;  yet 
cannot  a  man  always  remember  everything.  Moreover  it 

[157] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


;iasi^is*»isttil<^!3gw^^ 


doth  better  accord  with  the  matter  here  in  hand  than  with 
other,  as  it  seemeth  me. 

Commonly  ladies  of  this  sort  are  great  liars,  and  speak 
never  a  word  of  truth.  For  so  trained  are  they  and 
broken  in  to  lying, — and  truly  if  they  do  otherwise,  they 
are  fools,  and  come  but  to  ill, — to  their  husbands  and 
lovers  anent  these  matters  and  these  changes  of  love,  and 
so  used  to  swearing  they  never  give  themselves  to  any 
but  them  only,  that  when  they  come  to  deal  with  other 
matters  of  consequence,  of  business  or  argument,  they 
never  do  aught  but  lie,  and  no  man  can  believe  a  thing 
they  say. 

Other  women  again  I  have  both  known  and  heard 
speak  of,  which  would  never  grant  their  favours  to  their 
lovers  but  when  they  were  with  child,  to  the  end  they 
might  not  conceive.  Wherein  they  did  make  great  scruple 
so  as  not  to  falsely  give  their  husbands  a  fruit  that  was 
not  really  theirs,  and  nourish,  feed  and  bring  up  the 
same  as  their  own.  I  have  already  spoke  on  this  subject. 
However,  being  once  pregnant,  they  would  deem  they 
were  doing  the  husband  no  wrong  nor  making  him  cuckold 
by  prostituting  themselves. 

Very  like,  some  were  used  to  do  thus  for  the  same 
reasons  as  moved  Julia,  the  Emperor  Augustus'  daughter 
and  wife  of  Agrippa,  who  in  her  time  was  a  notorious 
harlot,  whereat  was  her  father  more  sore  angered  than 
her  husband.  Once  being  asked  if  that  she  were  not 
afeared  of  being  made  pregnant  by  her  lovers,  and  her 
husband  noting  it  and  being  very  wroth  with  her,  she 
made  answer:  "Nay!  I  take  good  heed  in  this,  for  I  do 
receive  no  man  and  take  never  a  passenger  in  my  ship, 
but  when  it  is  laden  and  carrying  full  cargo." 

[158] 


WtfiftiiK^tftm^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


®m&!$3!®i£m!ll}^^ 


Now  here  we  have  yet  another  sort  of  cuckolds ;  and 
these  same  are  true  martyrs,  they  which  have  wives  as 
ugly  as  devils  in  hell,  who  nevertheless  are  fain  to  take 
their  share  in  tasting  the  sweets  of  love  just  as  much 
as  their  fairer  sisters,  though  these  last  properly  do 
deserve  this  privilege  alone  according  to  the  proverb: 
"Handsome  men  to  the  gallows,  fair  dames  to  the 
brothel."  2  Yet  do  these  ugly  coal-wenches  play  the  gay 
woman  like  the  rest.  And  they  must  needs  be  forgiven; 
for  are  they  not  women  too,  and  with  a  like  nature  and 
complexion,  only  not  so  fair  seeming.  I  have  seen  very 
plain  women,  at  any  rate  in  their  youth,  which  did  rate 
themselves  just  as  highly  as  fairer  dames,  deeming  that 
a  woman  is  valued  at  just  the  worth  she  doth  put  upon 
herself  and  will  sell  herself  for.  Even  as  at  a  good 
market  all  sorts  of  wares  are  sold  and  pledged,  some  at  a 
high,  some  at  a  lower  rate,  according  to  the  amount  of 
business  a-doing,  and  the  time  at  which  one  cometh  to 
market  after  others,  and  according  to  the  good  or  bad 
price  one  doth  find  ruling  there.  For,  as  folk  say,  a 
man  goeth  always  to  the  best  market,  and  albeit  the  stuff 
be  not  of  the  best,  the  price  will  depend  on  the  skill  of 
the  market-man  and  market-woman. 

So  is  it  with  plain  women,  of  whom  I  have  seen  some 
that,  by  my  troth,  were  as  hot  and  lustful  and  as  well 
inclined  for  love  as  the  fairest,  and  would  put  themselves 
on  the  market  and  be  as  fain  as  any  to  get  a  good  price 
and  full  value. 

But  the  worst  thing  I  find  in  them  is  this,  that  whereas 
the  dealers  make  offers  to  the  fairest,  these  others  do 
make  offers  to  the  dealers  and  beg  them  to  take  and 
accept  of  their  goods,  the  which  they  are  ready  to  give 

[159] 


sffflfffflggigsBraffffflggi??^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


;«>fwiagj^i^ijM!^^i.^i®j^i^ 


them  for  nothing  or  at  a  very  low  price.  Nay!  they 
go  further  still;  for  most  often  they  do  give  them  money 
to  taste  of  their  lecherousness  and  be  debauched  of  them. 
Now  look  at  the  pity  of  it!  for  in  payment  of  such  de- 
bauching no  little  sum  of  money  is  needed, — so  much  so 
that  it  doth  cost  more  than  the  person  is  worth.  And 
yet  is  the  poor  husband  no  less  degraded  and  made  cuck- 
old by  a  plain  wife,  whose  fare  is  much  harder  to  digest 
than  a  beautiful  woman's.  To  say  nothing  of  a  man's 
having  to  lie  by  his  side  a  devil  of  hell,  in  place  of  a 
beauteous  angel. 

Wherefore  I  have  heard  many  gallant  men  say  they 
had  rather  have  a  beautiful  woman,  and  one  something 
whorish,  than  a  plain  woman,  though  the  most  chaste  in 
all  the  world.  For  in  a  foul  dame  is  to  be  found  naught 
but  wretchedness  and  displeasure ;  in  a  fair  one  is  abund- 
ance of  all  pleasure  and  good  happiness, — as  some  folk 
maintain.  For  myself  I  refer  me  to  such  as  have  trod 
this  roadway  and  path. 

I  have  heard  some  men  say  sometimes,  that  for  hus- 
bands it  is  no  such  grand  thing  for  them  to  have  their 
wives  chaste.  For  then  are  these  so  boastful  of  the  fact, 
I  mean  those  women  that  do  possess  this  most  uncommon 
gift,  that  you  might  almost  declare  them  fain  to  dom- 
inate not  alone  their  husbands,  but  the  very  world  itself 
and  the  stars  of  heaven !  Nay !  they  seem  to  think,  judg- 
ing from  their  pride  of  chastity,  that  God  doth  owe  them 
some  special  return  therefor.  Yet  are  they  greatly  de- 
ceived; for  I  have  heard  learned  Doctors  say,  how  that 
God  doth  more  love  a  poor  sinful  woman,  repentant  and 
contrite,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Magdalene,  than  a  prideful 
and  haughty  dame,  which  doth  suppose  she  hath  surely 

[160] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

a^!MlMiMlM!ft3Br^g!Mife^^ 

won  Paradise,  without  any  need  for  the  pity  and  merciful 
judgment  of  God. 

I  have  heard  tell  of  a  lady  so  boastful  by  reason  of  her 
chastity  that  she  did  come  so  to  look  down  upon  her 
husband,  that  when  asked  if  she  had  lain  with  him,  "No  !" 
she  would  reply,  "but  he  hath  lain  with  me."  So  proud  a 
dame  was  she!  I  leave  you  to  imagine  how  these  same 
silly,  boastful,  virtuous  wives  do  chide  their  poor  hus- 
bands, even  though  they  may  have  naught  really  to  re- 
proach them  with.  So  in  especial  do  such  wives  as  are 
chaste  and  rich  likewise.  A  wife  that  is  at  once  virtuous 
and  wealthy  in  her  own  right,  will  ever  be  playing  the 
disdainful,  haughty,  proud  and  bold  lady  towards  her 
husband,  so  that  by  reason  of  the  over  high  value  she 
doth  set  on  her  chastity  and  her  well  guarded  front,  she 
cannot  refrain  her  from  putting  on  the  airs  of  an  empress 
and  chiding  her  husband  on  his  committing  the  smallest 
fault,  as  I  have  seen  sundry  do,  and  above  all  on  his 
ill  way  of  life.  If  he  gamble,  or  be  wasteful  or  extrava- 
gant, mightily  doth  she  protest  and  storm,  making  her 
home  to  seem  rather  a  hell  upon  earth  than  an  honour- 
able household.  Then  if  he  need  to  sell  aught  of  his 
property  to  meet  the  cost  of  a  journey  to  Court  or  to  the 
wars,  or  of  his  lawsuits,  necessities  or  minor  follies  and 
frivolous  expenses,  never  a  word  must  he  speak  thereof. 
For  such  an  empire  hath  the  wife  assumed  over  him, 
resting  it  on  the  strong  foundation  of  her  virtue,  that 
her  husband  must  needs  refer  all  to  her  judgment,  as 
Juvenal  well  says  in  one  of  his  Satires: 

"...  Animus  uxoris  si  deditus  uni, 
Nil  unquam  in  vita  donabis  conjuge;   vendes, 
Hac  obstante,  nihil  haec,  si  nolit,  emetur."  3 
[161] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


These  lines  of  the  poet  show  plainly  that  the  ancient 
Roman  dames  were  in  this  matter  of  an  humour  much 
akin  to  that  of  many  ladies  of  our  own  day.  On  the 
contrary,  when  a  wife  is  something  whorish,  she  will  show 
herself  far  more  acommodating,  more  yielding,  docile  and 
timid,  of  a  much  gentler  and  more  agreeable  disposition, 
more  humble  and  ready  to  do  aught  her  husband  may 
desire,  and  more  complaisant  to  him  in  all  things.  So 
have  I  seen  some  such  which  durst  never  scold  or  cry 
out,  nor  show  themselves  cross-gained,  for  fear  the  hus- 
band should  confront  them  with  their  fault  and  throw 
their  adultery  in  their  face,  and  make  them  to  feel  the 
consequences  thereof  at  the  cost  of  their  life  itself.  Then 
if  the  gallant  fellow  is  fain  to  sell  some  property  of  theirs, 
lo!  their  names  are  writ  to  the  contract  before  ever  the 
husband  have  time  to  say  the  word.  Many  of  this  sort 
have  I  seen.  In  one  word  they  do  what  their  husbands 
please. 

Well !  are  these  then  so  sorely  hurt  to  be  made  cuckold 
of  such  fair  dames,  and  to  win  of  them  such  fine  goods 
and  advantages  as  these, — to  say  naught  of  the  fine, 
delightsome  pleasure  they  do  enjoy  in  wantoning  with 
suchlike  beauteous  women,  and  swimming,  so  to  speak, 
with  them  in  a  beautiful,  clear  stream  instead  of  a  foul 
and  repulsive  slough?  And  since  a  man  must  die,  as  a 
certain  great  Captain  I  know  used  to  say,  is  it  not  far 
better  for  it  to  be  by  a  fine  fresh  sword,  bright,  clear, 
shining  and  keen-edged,  than  by  an  old  blade,  all  rusted 
and  ill  burnished,  one  calling  for  more  emery  than  all 
the  sword-cutlers  of  Paris  together  could  furnish? 

And  what  I  say  of  young  women  that  are  plain,  I  say 
the  like  of  some  old  women,  the  which  are  fain  to  be 

[162] 


viW*>ir7ttr?iYir^r^iriffiti^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


debauched  and  be  kept  clean  and  bright  by  use,  just  as 
much  as  the  fairest  in  all  the  world.  Elsewhere  do  I 
give  a  special  Discourse  to  this  subject  (the  Fifth  Dis- 
course, following).  And  this  is  the  worst  of  it:  when 
their  husbands  cannot  fulfil  the  duty,  then  the  rogues 
will  be  calling  in  substitutes,  being  every  bit  as  passionate 
as  3rounger  women,  or  even  more  so.  So  have  I  seen  some 
that  neither  at  the  beginning  nor  the  middle  of  life  are 
ready  to  be  excited,  but  only  at  the  end.  And  rightly 
do  men  say  that  in  these  matters  the  end  is  more  fierce 
than  the  two  other  ages,  the  beginning  and  the  middle,  — 
so  far  as  wishing  goes.  For  very  often  strength  and 
competence  are  then  lacking,  a  thing  that  doth  vex  them 
sore,  —  as  saith  the  old  proverb:  'Tis  great  grief  and 
pain,  when  a  backside  hath  right  good  will,  but  power  is 
a-wanting. 

So  are  there  always  some  of  these  poor  old  wretches, 
which  do  admit  their  lovers  gratis,  like  a  muleteer  on  his 
beast,  and  do  distribute  their  largess  at  the  expense  of 
their  two  purses  ;  but  'tis  the  money  purse  only  makes 
these  find  the  other,  the  body's  purse,  good  and  narrow. 
Thus  we  say  that  liberality  is  more  to  be  esteemed  in  all 
matters  than  avarice  and  niggardliness,  except  only  with 
women,  who,  the  more  liberal  they  are,  the  less  are  they 
esteemed,  but  the  avaricious  and  niggard  all  the  more  for 
being  so. 

This  was  what  a  great  Lord  did  say  one  time  of  two 
great  ladies,  sisters,  whom  I  know  of,  whereof  the  one 
was  niggard  of  her  honour,  but  liberal  of  her  purse  and 
expenditure,  the  other  exceeding  chary  of  her  purse  and 
money,  but  very  liberal  of  her  person. 

Next  there  is  yet  another  sort  of  cuckolds,  one  that  of 

[163] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


a  surety  is  utterly  abominable  and  hateful  before  God 
and  man  alike,  they  who,  enamoured  of  some  handsome 
Adonis,  do  abandon  their  wives  to  men  of  this  kind  in 
order  to  enjoy  their  favour  in  return. 

The  first  time  ever  I  was  in  Italy,  I  did  hear  of  an 
example  of  this  at  Ferrara,  the  tale  being  told  me  of 
one  who,  captivated  by  a  certain  handsome  youth,  did 
persuade  his  wife  to  accord  her  favours  to  the  said  young 
man,  who  was  in  love  with  her,  and  to  appoint  a  day  and 
consent  to  do  all  he  should  bid  her.  The  lady  was  willing 
enough,  for  truly  she  did  desire  no  better  venison  to 
regale  herself  withal  than  this.  At  length  was  the  day 
fixed,  and  the  hour  being  come  when  the  young  lover  and 
the  lady  were  at  their  pleasant  game  and  entertainment, 
lo!  the  husband,  who  was  hid  near  at  hand,  according 
to  the  compact  betwixt  him  and  his  wife,  did  rush  in. 
So  catching  them  in  the  very  act,  he  did  put  his  dagger 
to  the  lover's  throat,  deeming  him  worthy  of  death  for 
such  offence,  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  Italy,  which 
herein  be  something  more  rigorous  than  in  France.  So 
was  he  constrained  to  grant  the  husband  what  he  did 
desire,  and  they  made  exchange  one  with  the  other.  The 
young  man  did  prostitute  himself  and  the  husband  did 
abandon  his  wife  to  the  young  man.  Thus  was  the  hus- 
band cuckold  after  an  exceeding  foul  fashion. 

I  have  heard  tell  of  a  lady,  which  being  desperately 
in  love  with  an  honourable  gentleman  whom  she  had  taken 
for  lover  and  chief  favourite,  and  this  latter  fearing  the 
husband  would  do  him  or  her  some  ill  turn,  did  comfort 
him,  saying,  "Nay !  have  no  fear,  for  he  would  in  no 
wise  dare  do  aught,  for  dread  I  should  accuse  him  of 
having  wished  to  practice  the  backdoor  Venus,  which 

[164] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

liassgaSigiMfc^si^iityatyiit^^ 

might  well  bring  about  his  death,  if  I  were  to  breathe  the 
least  word  thereof  and  denounce  him  to  justice.  But  in 
this  way  I  do  hold  him  in  check  and  in  terror,  so  that 
for  fear  of  my  accusation,  he  dares  not  say  one  word 
to  me." 

Without  a  doubt  such  accusation  would  have  involved 
the  poor  husband  in  naught  less  than  peril  of  his  life; 
for  the  legists  declare  that  this  act  is  punishable  for  the 
mere  wish  to  commit  the  same.  But  mayhap  the  lady 
did  never  mean  to  let  out  the  word  altogether,  and  would 
not  have  gone  so  far  as  this  without  reconsidering  her 
intent. 

I  have  been  told  how  in  one  of  these  latter  years  a 
young  French  gentleman,  a  handsome  gallant  that  had 
been  seen  many  a  day  at  Court,  being  gone  to  Rome 
for  instruction  in  manly  exercises,  like  others  his  con- 
temporaries, was  in  that  city  regarded  with  so  favourable 
an  eye,  and  did  meet  with  such  great  admiration  of  his 
beauty,  as  well  of  men  as  of  women,  that  folk  were  ready 
almost  to  force  him  to  their  will.  And  so  whenever  they 
were  aware  of  his  going  to  Mass  or  other  place  of  public 
assemblage,  they  would  never  fail,  either  men  or  women, 
to  be  there  likewise  for  to  see  him.  Nay,  more,  several 
husbands  did  suffer  their  wives  to  give  him  love  assigna- 
tions in  their  houses,  to  the  end  that  being  come  thither 
and  then  surprised,  they  might  effect  an  exchange,  the 
one  of  his  wife,  the  other  of  him.  For  which  cause  he  was 
advised  never  to  yield  to  the  love  and  wishes  of  these 
ladies,  seeing  the  whole  matter  had  been  contrived  and 
arranged  merely  to  entrap  him.  And  herein  he  did  show 
himself  wise  and  did  set  his  honour  and  good  conscience 
above  all  such  detestable  pleasures,  winning  thereby  a 

[165] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

g|&^y^WAMiM]MiM3W^^ 

high  and  worthy  repute.  Yet  at  the  last  his  squire  did 
kill  him.  Divers  reasons  are  given  therefor.  At  any  rate 
'twas  a  sore  pity,  for  that  he  was  a  very  honourable 
young  man,  of  good  station,  and  one  that  did  promise 
well  of  his  nature  as  well  by  reason  of  his  noble  actions  as 
of  the  fine  and  noble  character  he  did  manifest  herein. 
For  indeed,  as  I  have  heard  a  very  gallant  man  of  my 
time  say,  and  as  is  most  true,  never  yet  was  bougre  or 
catamite  a  brave,  valiant  and  generous  man  but  only  the 
great  Julius  Caesar,  seeing  that  by  divine  permission  and 
ordinance  all  such  abominable  folk  are  brought  low  and 
reduced  to  shame.  And  this  doth  make  me  wonder  how 
sundry,  whom  I  have  seen  stained  by  this  horrid  vice, 
have  yet  prospered  under  heaven  in  high  good  fortune; 
yet  doth  God  wait  for  them,  and  at  the  last  we  shall 
surely  see  them  meet  their  proper  fate. 

How  many  women  there  be  in  the  world,  which  if  they 
were  examined  by  midwives  and  doctors  and  expert  sur- 
geons, would  be  found  no  more  virgin  one  way  than  an- 
other, and  which  could  at  any  moment  bring  action 
against  their  husbands.  Yet  do  they  dissimulate  it  and 
dare  not  discover  the  matter,  for  fear  of  bringing  scandal 
on  themselves  and  their  husbands,  or  perhaps  because 
they  do  find  therein  some  greater  pleasure  than  we  can 
suppose.  Or  it  may  be  for  the  purpose  I  have  above 
named, — to  keep  their  husbands  in  such  subjection,  if 
they  do  make  love  in  other  quarters,  which  indeed  some 
husbands  do  on  these  terms  allow  them  to  do.  Yet  are 
none  of  these  reasons  really  sufficient  to  account  for  the 
thing. 

The  Summa  Benedicti  saith:  If  the  husband  chooseth 
thus  to  take  his  part  contrary  to  the  order  of  nature, 

[166] 


r/stffrftr/sviftYir«tfftW«Wrtr^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


he  commits  a  mortal  sin;  and  if  he  maintain  that  he  may 
dispose  of  his  own  wife  as  he  please,  he  doth  fall  into  a 
detestable  and  foul  heresy  of  sundry  Jews  and  evil  Rabbis, 
which  are  cited  as  saying  thus,  dudbus  mulieribus  apud 
synagogam  conquestis  se  fuisse  a  viris  sms  cognitu  so- 
domitico  cognitas,  responsum  est  ab  Hits  Rabinis:  virum 
esse  u&oris  dominum,  proinde  posse  uti  ejus  utcumque 
libuerit,  non  aliter  quam  qui  piscem  emit:  ille  enim,  tarn 
anterioribus  quam  posterioribus  partibus,  ad  arbitrium 
vesci  posse. 

This  have  I  quoted  only  in  Latin,  forasmuch  as  it 
soundeth  ill  to  honourable  and  modest  ears.  Abominable 
wretches  that  they  be,  —  thus  to  desert  a  fair,  pure  and 
lawful  habit,  to  adopt  instead  one  that  is  foul,  dirty, 
filthy  and  forbid,  and  disgraceful  to  boot. 

But  if  the  man  will  take  the  woman  so,  it  is  lawful  for 
her  to  separate  from  him,  if  there  is  no  other  means  to 
cure  him.  And  yet,  it  is  stated  again,  such  women  as 
fear  God  ought  never  to  consent  thereto,  but  rather 
cry  out  for  help,  regardless  of  the  scandal  which  might 
so  arise,  and  of  dishonour  and  the  fear  of  death;  for  'tis 
better,  saith  the  law,  to  die  than  to  consent  to  evil.  The 
same  book  doth  say  another  thing  which  I  deem  very 
strange:  that  whatsoever  way  a  husband  know  his  wife, 
provided  she  may  conceive  thereby,  herein  is  no  mortal 
sin,  but  only  a  venial  one.  Nor  do  these  same  smack  at 
all  of  marital  purity,  albeit,  as  I  have  before  said,  it  may 
be  permissible  in  case  of  pregnant  women,  as  well  as  such 
as  have  a  strong  and  unpleasant  breath,  whether  from  the 
mouth  or  nose.  Thus  have  I  known  and  heard  speak  of 
several  women  to  kiss  whom  and  scent  their  breath  was  as 
bad  as  smelling  at  a  sewer;  or  to  put  it  another  way,  I 

[167] 


BTgSTWSffiyfflygBfSfffSlg^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


'm&9W$Sli$&l}3&S^^ 


have  heard  it  said  of  a  certain  great  lady,  a  very  great 
one  indeed  I  mean,  that  once  one  of  her  ladies  declared  her 
breath  stank  more  than  a  backhouse.  These  are  the  very 
words  she  used. 

I  would  say  more  of  this,  but  in  truth  I  have  a  horror 
of  speaking  thereof  at  all.  It  hath  vexed  me  to  have  said 
so  much  as  I  have ;  but  'tis  needful  sometimes  to  lay  open 
public  vices  in  order  to  reform  the  same. 

14. 

JEXT  it  behoveth  me  to  mention  an  ill  opinion 
which  many  have  held  and  do  still  hold  con- 
cerning the  Court  of  our  French  Kings.  Men 
say  the  ladies  thereof,  both  maids  and  wives, 
do  oft  times  trip,  indeed  do  so  customarily.  But  in  this 
are  they  very  much  deceived,  for  truly  there  be  amongst 
these  very  chaste,  honourable  and  virtuous  women,  nay! 
even  more  than  elsewhere.  Virtue  doth  reside  there  just 
as  much,  or  more  than  in  other  places, — a  fact  we  should 
duly  prize,  for  that  it  can  readily  be  put  to  proof. 

Je  n'alleguerai  que  ce  seul  exemple  de  Mme.  la  grande- 
duchesse  de  Florence  d'aujourd'hui,  de  la  maison  de  Lor- 
raine, laquelle  etant  arrivee  a  Florence  le  soir  que  le 
grand -due  1'epousa,  et  qu'il  voulut  aller  coucher  avec  elle 
pour  la  depuceler,  il  la  fit  avant  pisser  dans  un  bel  urinoir 
de  cristal,  le  plus  beau  et  le  plus  clair  qu'il  put,  et  en 
ayant  vu  1'urine,  il  la  consulta  avec  son  medecin,  qui 
etait  un  tres  grand  et  tres  savant  et  expert  personnage, 
pour  savoir  de  lui,  par  cette  inspection,  si  elle  etait 
pucelle  oui  ou  non.  Le  medecin  1'ayant  bien  fixement  et 
doctement  inspectee,  il  trouva  qu'elle  etait  telle  comme 

[168] 


BfiSEWSfflfWfflgagffiffWWffiy^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


quand  sortit  du  ventre  de  sa  mere,  et  qu'il  y  allat  hardi- 
ment,  et  qu'il  n'y  trouverait  point  le  chemin  nullement 
ouvert,  fraye  ni  battu;  ce  qu'il  fit,  et  en  trouva  la  verite 
telle  et  puis. 

Then  next  morning,  in  amaze,  he  did  exclaim  thus: 
"Lo  and  behold,  a  miracle,  —  that  the  girl  should  thus 
have  come  forth  a  virgin  from  yonder  Court  of  France!" 
Truly  a  curious  investigation,  and  a  strange  opinion! 
I  know  not  if  the  tale  be  true,  but  it  hath  been  confidently 
affirmed  to  me  as  being  so. 

A  fine  repute  for  our  Court.  But  indeed  'tis  no  long 
while  since  men  generally  held  that  all  the  ladies  of  the 
Court  and  of  Paris  city  were  not  so  virtuous  of  their 
body  as  they  of  the  open  countryside,  and  such  as  never 
left  their  homes.  There  have  been  men  known  so  scrupu- 
lous they  would  never  wed  with  girls  or  women  which  had 
travelled  far  afield,  and  seen  the  world,  be  it  ever  so  little. 
Thus  in  our  native  Guyenne,  in  the  days  of  my  youth,  I 
have  heard  not  a  few  gallant  gentlemen  say  this  and  seen 
them  swear  to  the  same,  that  they  would  never  wed  girl 
or  woman  which  should  ever  have  gone  forth  of  the  Port 
de  Pille,  to  journey  away  toward  France.  Poor  silly 
creatures  surely  herein,  albeit  wise  and  gallant  men 
enough  in  other  matters,  to  suppose  that  cuckoldry  did 
never  abide  in  their  own  houses,  at  their  hearths  and  in 
their  closets  and  bedchambers,  just  as  readily,  —  or  may- 
hap more  so,  seeing  the  easy  opportunities,  —  as  in  the 
Royal  Palaces  and  the  great  Royal  towns  !  For  could 
not  lovers  well  enough  come  thither  to  suborn,  win  over, 
court  and  undo  their  wives  for  them,  when  they  were 
themselves  away  at  Court,  at  the  wars,  or  the  chase, 
attending  their  law  business  or  on  their  journeyings 

[169] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


abroad?  This  they  would  never  understand,  but  were  so 
simple  as  to  think  men  would  never  dare  to  say  one  word 
of  love  to  their  ladies,  but  speak  only  of  their  households, 
gardens,  hunting  and  hawking  parties.  And  so  by  such 
blindness  and  rash  confidence  they  did  get  themselves 
cuckolded  even  more  freely  than  elsewhere ;  for  there  is  no 
spot  where  a  fair  and  clever  woman,  and  an  honourable 
and  gallant  man,  cannot  find  room  and  convenience  for 
love-making.  Poor  fools  and  idiots  that  they  were !  could 
they  not  realize  how  that  Venus  hath  no  fixed  and  special 
place  of  abode,  as  of  old  in  Cyprus,  at  Paphos  and 
Amathos,  and  see  that  she  doth  dwell  everywhere,  yea ! 
even  in  the  very  herdsmen's  cots  and  the  lowly  lap  of 
shepherdesses  the  most  simple  seeming? 

Since  some  while  now  have  they  begun  to  abandon 
these  silly  prejudices.  For,  having  observed  that  in  all 
parts  was  risk  of  this  same  unhappy  cuckoldry,  they 
have  of  late  taken  wives  wherever  they  have  pleased  or 
been  able.  Nay!  they  have  gone  yet  further;  for  they 
have  sent  them  or  taken  them  with  them  to  Court,  to  let 
their  beauty  be  manifest  and  have  full  appreciation,  and 
so  strike  envy  to  the  heart  of  all  and  sundry, — as  if  for 
the  very  end  of  getting  themselves  a  set  of  horns ! 

Others  again  do  nowadays  send  their  wives,  or  take 
the  same  along  with  them,  to  plead  and  influence  by  their 
solicitations  their  suits  at  law;  whereof  some  really  and 
truly  have  no  law  business  at  all,  but  do  make  pretense 
they  have.  Or  else,  if  they  really  have  some  case  toward, 
they  will  wilfully  prolong  the  same,  the  better  to  prolong 
their  amours.  Nay!  sometimes  husbands  will  actually 
leave  their  wives  on  duty  at  the  Courts,  in  the  galleries 
and  great  Hall  thereof,  and  so  away  to  their  own  homes, 

[170] 


!^ii?/Wt7W/^ti?fftiysig^ajTOff^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

mai&jgMMByB^iMiMi^i^^ 

deeming  these  will  better  do  their  business  for  them,  and 
they  will  win  their  cause  better  so.  And  in  truth  I  do 
know  of  several  which  have  so  won  them,  more  by  the 
dexterity  and  delights  of  their  wives'  fore  parts  than  by 
any  claim  of  justice  on  their  side.  And  so  many  a  time 
will  the  wives  be  gotten  with  child  at  this  game,  and  then 
to  avoid  scandal, — drugs  having  failed  of  their  efficacy 
to  preserve  them  therefrom, — will  speedily  hie  away  home 
to  their  husbands,  feigning  they  are  going  thither  to  look 
up  titles  or  documents  of  the  which  they  stand  in  need, 
or  to  institute  some  enquiry,  or  else  that  'tis  to  await 
Martinmas  and  the  re-opening  of  the  Courts,  and  that 
being  unable  in  vacation  time  to  make  any  progress 
in  their  suit,  they  are  fain  to  have  a  bout  of  the  male  and 
see  their  households  again  and  husbands.  And  so  they 
do  in  sooth,  but  they  were  well  in  child,  ere  ever  they 
began ! 

I  appeal  to  many  a  learned  judge  and  presiding  mag- 
istrate as  to  the  fine  tit-bits  these  same  have  enjoyed 
from  time  to  time  of  country  gentlemen's  wives. 

'Tis  no  long  while  since  a  very  fair,  great  and  honour- 
able lady,  which  myself  have  known,  going  in  this  wise 
to  forward  her  case  at  the  Paris  Courts,  one  seeing  it 
did  say,  "Why!  what  doth  she  think  to  do?  She  will 
surely  lose,  for  she  hath  no  great  claim  of  right  and 
justice."  But,  tell  me,  doth  not  her  right  and  justice 
lie  in  the  beauty  of  her  fore  part,  even  as  Caesar  did  bear 
his  on  the  pommel  and  point  of  his  sword  ? 

Thus  are  country  gentlemen  cuckolded  by  the  men  of 
the  Law,  in  revenge  for  the  cuckoldries  they  themselves 
commit  on  judges'  and  magistrates'  good  ladies.  And  in- 
deed some  of  these  last  I  have  seen  who  have  been  a  fair 

[171] 


Bg^ffrrBB?Sffl?^sySffif^ttfSiT^^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

m^sysyafeafemaas^K^^^ 

match,  when  all  charms  were  displayed,  for  many  wives 
and  daughters  of  Lords,  Knights  and  high-born  gentle- 
men of  the  Court  and  other  such. 

I  knew  once  a  great  lady,  which  had  been  very  fair, 
but  years  had  worn  out  her  beauty.  Having  a  law  case 
at  Paris,  and  seeing  her  beauty  was  no  more  meet  to 
help  her  to  forward  and  win  her  process,  she  did  take 
with  her  a  certain  neighbour  of  hers,  a  young  and  pretty 
woman.  And  to  this  end  she  did  supply  her  with  a  good 
sum  of  money,  as  much  as  ten  thousand  crowns;  and  so 
what  she  could  not  herself  do,  willing  as  she  would  have 
been,  in  this  she  did  find  her  advantage,  and  the  young 
lady  to  boot,  and  both  the  twain  were  well  pleased. 

'Tis  no  long  while  since  I  saw  a  mother  take  thither  one 
of  her  daughters,  albeit  she  was  a  married  woman,  to  help 
her  forward  her  case,  having  no  other  business  there  at 
all.  And  truly  she  is  a  very  fair  lady,  and  well  worth  a 
man's  while  to  listen  to. 

However  'tis  high  time  I  should  make  an  end  in  this  my 
grand  discourse  concerning  cuckoldry.  For  at  the  last 
would  my  long  periods,  tossed  to  and  fro  in  these  deep 
waters  and  mighty  torrents,  be  clean  drowned;  and  I 
should  never  have  done,  or  have  wit  enough  to  get  me 
out  of  the  thing,  no  more  than  out  of  that  Labyrinth 
of  yore,  though  I  should  have  the  longest  and  strongest 
thread  was  ever  in  this  world  for  guide  and  safe  conduct. 

Finally  I  will  conclude  by  saying  this,  that  if  we  are 
the  cause  of  many  ills,  and  do  give  torments,  martyrdoms 
and  evil  times  to  the  poor  cuckolds,  still  we  do  verily  pay 
for  the  same  through  the  nose,  as  the  saying  is,  and  are 
mulcted  in  a  triple  interest.  For  verily  the  more  part 
of  them  that  do  them  wrong  and  make  unlawful  love,  the 

[172] 


ftW*r^MMtaW«w«w*\mir/8flrfc\ir^^ 


^^t^.^l^l^!^l^4!^^!^l^l2»^^^^l^t^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


more  part  of  the  same  gallants,  do  endure  quite  as  great 
ills  as  they  inflict,  seeing  all  the  jealousies  they  are  liable 
to,  not  less  from  their  rivals  in  the  pursuit  than  from  the 
husbands  themselves.  Then  consider  the  anxieties  and 
caprices  they  have  to  put  up  with,  the  risks  they  run  of 
danger  and  death,  of  maiming  and  wounds,  of  affronts, 
insults,  quarrels,  terrors,  pains  and  penalties  of  every 
kind.  Think  how  they  must  needs  endure  cold  and  wet, 
wind  and  heat.  I  say  naught  here  of  pox  and  chancres, 
all  the  plagues  and  diseases  they  incur  at  this  game,  as 
much  with  high-born  dames  as  with  those  of  low  degree. 
Thus  it  is  that  many  and  many  a  time  they  buy  right 
dear  what  is  granted  them,  and  the  game  is  truly  not 
worth  the  candle. 

Yea !  many  such  have  we  seen  perish  miserably,  at  the 
very  time  they  were  set  forth  on  their  way  to  conquer  a 
whole  kingdom.  Witness  M.  de  Bussi,  the  paragon  of  his 
day,  and  many  another. 

Of  such  I  could  cite  an  host  more ;  but  I  will  leave  them 
unnamed,  to  the  end  I  may  have  done,  only  admonishing 
lovers  and  advising  them  to  practise  the  Italian  proverb 
which  saith,  Che  molto  guadagna  chi  putana  perde!  (He 
who  loseth  an  harlot,  gaineth  much). 

Ame,  Count  of  Savoy,  was  often  used  to  say: 

En  jeu  d'armes  et  d'amours 
Pour  une  joye  cent  doulours. 
("In  the  sport  of  arms  and  of  love, 
for  one  joy  an  hundred  dolours.") 

using  this  quaint  old  word,  the  better  to  make  out  his 
rhyme.  Another  saying  of  his  was,  that  love  and  anger 
had  this  point  of  great  unlikeness  one  with  the  other, 

[173] 


Fgiyftl^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gjSTOiamaittmgia^^ 

that  whereas  anger  doth  pass  away  soon  and  very  readily 
from  the  person  affected,  love  doth  so  only  with  the  ex- 
treme of  difficulty. 

And  this  is  why  we  should  guard  well  against  love  of 
this  sort  for  that  it  doth  cost  us  quite  as  much  as  it  is 
worth,  and  doth  often  lead  to  great  ill  fortunes.  And 
to  speak  the  real  truth,  the  more  part  of  patient  and 
contented  cuckolds  have  an  hundred  fold  better  time,  if 
only  they  have  the  wit  to  recognise  their  position  and 
come  to  an  agreement  with  their  wives,  than  have  the 
active  agents.  Yea  \  and  many  an  one  have  I  seen,  though 
his  horns  were  in  question,  would  make  mock  at  us  and 
laugh  at  all  the  humours  and  pretty  speeches  of  us  gal- 
lants in  converse  of  love  with  the  wife.  The  same  again 
when  we  had  perchance  to  do  with  wily  dames,  who  do 
make  an  understanding  with  their  husbands  and  so  sell 
us.  So  I  knew  once  a  very  brave  and  honourable  gentle- 
man, who  had  long  loved  a  certain  fair  and  honourable 
lady  and  had  had  of  her  the  enjoyment  he  had  been  fain 
of  for  so  long.  But  one  day  having  observed  that  the 
husband  and  she  were  making  merry  at  some  peculiarity 
of  his,  he  did  take  the  thing  in  such  dudgeon  that  he  did 
leave  her,  and  for  good;  for  taking  a  long  journey  for  to 
divert  his  thoughts,  he  did  never  speak  to  the  lady  again, 
so  he  told  me.  And  truly  suchlike  wily,  cunning  and 
fickle  dames  must  be  guarded  against,  as  they  were  savage 
beasts;  for  to  content  and  appease  their  husbands,  they 
will  quit  their  old  lovers,  and  thereafter  again  take  other 
ones,  being  in  no  wise  able  to  do  without  them  altogether. 

So  too  I  have  known  a  very  honourable  and  great  lady, 
which  yet  had  this  ill  fortune  with  her,  that  of  five  or  six 
lovers  I  have  seen  her  have  in  my  day,  all  died  one  after 

[174] 


r/»'ffrtr^?^r^ifaW*u^ 


Jt»^Jt}s^t?S^£s^!^lffiJi^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


the  other,  not  without  sore  grief  on  her  part  therefor. 
Wherefore  did  men  say  of  her  how  that  she  was  Sej amis' 
horse,  seeing  all  they  which  did  mount  her  did  die,  and 
scarce  ever  survived.  Yet  had  she  this  good  in  her  and 
this  merit,  that  whosoever  it  may  have  been,  she  was 
never  known  to  change  or  abandon  any  of  her  good 
friends  and  lovers  while  yet  living,  for  to  take  others 
instead.  Only  when  they  did  come  to  die,  she  was  ever 
eager  to  have  a  new  mount,  to  the  end  she  might  not 
go  a-foot.  Moreover,  as  the  lawyers  themselves  main- 
tain, 'tis  allowed  to  adopt  any  protector  one  may  choose 
for  one's  estate  and  lands,  whenas  they  are  deprived  of 
their  first  master.  Such  constancy  in  this  fair  lady  was 
much  to  be  commended ;  but  albeit  she  was  so  far  firm  in 
her  good  faith,  yet  have  there  ever  been  an  host  of  other 
dames  that  have  been  far  from  so  constant. 

Besides,  to  speak  candidly,  'tis  never  advisable  to  grow 
old  in  one  and  the  same  spot,  and  no  man  of  spirit  ever 
doth  so.  A  man  must  be  a  bold  adventurer  and  ever  be 
turning  him  this  way  and  that,  just  as  much  in  love  as 
in  war  and  in  other  matters.  For  verily  if  a  sailor  do 
trust  to  but  one  anchor  in  his  ship,  if  he  drag  this,  he  is 
very  likely  to  lose  his  vessel,  especially  if  it  be  in  an  ex- 
posed place  and  in  a  storm,  where  squalls  and  tempestu- 
ous waves  are  more  like  to  occur  than  in  a  calm  and  in 
harbour. 

And  in  what  more  dangerous  and  exposed  waters  could 
a  man  adventure  himself  and  sail  forth  than  in  making 
love  to  one  fair  lady  only?  For  though  of  herself  she 
may  not  have  been  wily  and  cunning  at  the  beginning, 
yet  we  men  do  soon  make  her  so  and  sharpen  her  wits 
by  the  many  strange  tricks  we  play  with  her,  whereby  we 

[175] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

a&afeaajiii^fea^^ 

do  often  hurt  ourselves,  by  making  her  able  to  carry  the 
war  into  our  own  country,  having  fashioned  and  trained 
her  thereto.  So  is  it  better  far,  as  a  certain  gallant 
gentleman  was  used  to  say,  to  wed  some  fair  and  honour- 
able dame,  albeit  with  the  risk  of  having  a  touch  of  the 
horns  and  suffering  this  misfortune  of  cuckoldry  that  is 
common  to  so  many,  rather  than  to  endure  so  many 
hardships  and  perils  in  the  making  of  other  folks  cuckold. 

However  this  is  all  contrary  to  the  opinion  expressed 
by  M.  du  Gua,  to  whom  one  day  I  did  make  a  proposition 
on  the  part  of  a  certain  great  lady  which  had  begged 
me  so  to  do,  to  marry  him.  But  he  did  make  this  answer 
only,  that  heretofore  he  had  ever  deemed  me  one  of  his 
best  friends,  but  that  now  I  did  make  him  think  himself 
deceived  in  this,  by  my  holding  such  language  to  him, 
trying  to  hunt  him  into  the  very  thing  he  most  did  hate, 
that  is  to  get  him  to  marry  and  be  cuckolded,  in  lieu  of 
his  making  other  men  so.  He  did  further  say  he  could 
always  wed  plenty  of  women  every  year,  speaking  of  mar- 
riage as  an  hidden  prostitution  of  a  man's  repute  and 
liberty,  ordained  by  a  specious  law.  Moreover  that  the 
worst  of  it  was,  this,  as  myself  also  do  see  and  have  noted 
to  be  the  case,  that  the  more  part,  nay  !  all,  of  them  that 
have  thus  taken  delight  in  making  other  folks  cuckold, 
when  themselves  come  to  wed,  infallibly  do  they  fall  into 
the  married,  I  mean  the  cuckolded,  state.  Never  yet  have 
I  known  it  fall  out  otherwise,  according  to  the  word,  "As 
thou  shalt  do  to  others,  so  shall  it  be  done  unto  you." 

Before  making  an  end,  I  will  say  yet  one  word  more,  — 
how  that  I  have  seen  a  dispute  raised  that  is  still  un- 
decided, to  wit,  in  which  provinces  and  regions  of  our 
Christendom  and  Europe  there  be  most  cuckolds  and 

[176] 


fim?WgBraigWg|gTtl^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gJMKm^m^ii53S£5B^ 

harlots?  Men  declare  that  in  Italy  the  ladies  are  exceed- 
ingly hot,  and  for  that  cause  very  whorish,  as  saith  M.  de 
Beze1  in  a  Latin  Epigram,  to  the  effect  that  where  the 
sun  is  hot  and  doth  shine  with  most  power,  there  doth 
it  the  most  heat  women,  inditing  a  verse  thus  conceived ; 

Credible  est  ignes  multiplicare  suos. 
("Pis  to  believed  he  doth  there  multiply  their  fires.) 

Spain  is  in  the  like  case,  though  it  lie  more  to  the  West- 
ward ;  yet  doth  the  sun  there  warm  fair  ladies  as  well  as 
ever  it  can  in  the  East. 

Flemish,  Swiss,  German,  English  and  Scotch  women, 
albeit  they  dwell  more  to  the  Northward  and  inhabit  cold 
regions,  share  no  less  in  this  same  natural  heat ;  and  indeed 
I  have  known  them  as  hot  as  dames  of  any  other  land. 

The  Greeks  have  good  reason  to  be  so,  for  that  they 
are  well  to  the  Eastward.  So  in  Italy  men  do  pray  for 
Greca  in  let  to, — or  "a  Greek  bedfellow."  And  in  sooth 
they  do  possess  many  attractive  points  and  merits,  as  is 
but  to  be  expected,  seeing  in  times  of  old  they  were  the 
delight  of  all  the  world,  and  have  taught  many  a  secret 
to  the  ladies  of  Italy  and  Spain,  from  ancient  times  even 
to  the  present  day, — so  much  so  that  these  do  well  nigh 
surpass  their  teachers,  whether  ancient  or  modern.  And 
verily  was  not  the  Queen  and  Empress  of  all  harlots, 
which  was  Venus,  a  Greek? 

As  for  my  fair  countrywomen  of  France,  in  old  days 
they  were  notoriously  very  coarse  and  unrefined,  content- 
ing themselves  with  doing  of  it  in  a  coarse,  rude  fashion. 
But,  beginning  some  fifty  years  since,  they  have  borrowed 
so  much  and  learned  from  other  nations  so  many  gentle 
ways,  pretty  tricks,  charms  and  attractions,  fine  clothes, 

[177] 


^yrt:?«\ir^if^yrtr/8vn^/^/s<fo8dt^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


3^!^!X^jt)B^iB|ii^^^ 


wanton  looks,  or  else  themselves  have  so  well  studied  to 
fashion  themselves  therein,  that  we  are  bound  to  say  that 
they  do  now  surpass  all  other  women  in  every  way.  So, 
as  I  have  heard  even  men  of  foreign  nations  admit,  they 
are  better  worth  a  man's  having  than  any  others,  not  to 
mention  that  naughty  words  in  French  are  more  naughty, 
better  sounding  and  more  rousing,  than  in  any  other 
tongue. 

Over  and  above  all  this,  that  excellent  liberty  we  have 
in  France,  a  thing  more  to  be  esteemed  than  aught  else, 
doth  surely  make  our  women  more  desirable  and  lovable, 
more  easy  of  access  and  more  amenable,  than  they  of  any 
other  nation.  Again  adultery  is  not  so  constantly  pun- 
ished as  in  other  lands,  by  the  good  wisdom  of  our  noble 
Councils  and  French  law-makers,  which  seeing  abuses  to 
arise  by  reason  of  such  harsh  punishments,  have  some- 
thing checked  the  same,  and  corrected  the  rigorous  laws 
of  a  former  day,  passed  by  men  which  herein  did  allow 
themselves  full  license  of  merry  disport,  but  deprived 
women  altogether  of  the  same  privilege.  Thus  was  it  not 
allowed  to  an  innocent  woman  to  accuse  her  husband  of 
adultery,  by  any  laws  imperial  or  canon,  as  Cajetan  doth 
assure  us.  But  truly  cunning  men  did  make  this  rule  for 
the  reasons  named  in  the  following  Italian  verses : 

Perche,  di  quel  che  Natura  concede 
Cel'  vieti  tu,  dura  legge  d'honore. 
Ella  a  noi  liberal  large  ne  diede 
Com'  agli  altri  animal  legge  d'amore. 
Ma  Fhuomo  fraudulento,  e  senza  fede, 
Che  fu  legislator  di  quest'  errore, 
Vendendo  nostre  f  orze  e  buona  schiena, 
Copri  la  sua  debolezza  con  la  pena. 
[178] 


r«ifrwr/»if/8\irAWW!^^ 


lt*^'4l*8^4!2syi^i^!^!^^ 


("Oh !  over  harsh  law  of  honour,  why  dost  thou  forbid  the 
thing  that  Nature  urges  us  to  do?  She  grants  us,  as  to  all 
animals,  the  enjoyment  of  love  abundantly  and  liberally.  But 
the  base  deceiver,  man,  knowing  only  too  well  the  vigour  of 
our  loins,  has  established  this  mistaken  law,  so  to  conceal  the 
weakness  of  the  sexes.") 

In  a  word,  'tis  good  to  love  in  this  land  of  France.  I 
appeal  to  our  authentic  doctors  in  this  science,  and  even 
to  our  courtesans,  which  will  be  more  apt  than  I  to  elab- 
orate subtle  details  thereanent.  And  to  tell  the  very 
truth:  harlots  are  there  in  all  lands,  and  cuckolds  the 
same,  as  myself  can  surely  testify,  for  that  I  have  seen 
all  the  countries  I  have  named,  and  others  to  boot. 
Chastity  abideth  not  in  one  quarter  of  the  earth  more 
than  another. 


15. 

lOW  will  I  further  ask  this  one  question  only, 
and  never  another,  one  which  mayhap  hath 
never  yet  been  enquired  into  of  any,  or  pos- 
sibly even  thought  of, — to  wit,  whether  two 
ladies  that  be  in  love  one  with  the  other,  as  hath  been 
seen  aforetime,  and  is  often  seen  nowadays,  sleeping  to- 
gether in  one  bed,  and  doing  what  is  called  donna  con 
donna,  imitating  in  fact  that  learned  poetess  Sappho, 
of  Lesbos,  whether  these  can  commit  adultery,  and  be- 
tween them  make  their  husbands  cuckold. 

Of  a  surety  do  they  commit  this  crime,  if  we  are  to 
believe  Martial  in  Epigram  CXIX  of  his  First  Book. 
Therein  doth  he  introduce  and  speak  of  a  woman  by 
name  Bassa,  a  tribad,  reproaching  the  same  greatly  in 

[179] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

tejyiiiysHSMii?^^ 

that  men  were  never  seen  to  visit  her,  in  such  wise  that 
folk  deemed  her  a  second  Lucretia  for  chasteness.  But 
presently  she  came  to  be  discovered,  for  that  she  was 
observed  to  be  constantly  welcoming  at  her  house  beauti- 
ful women  and  girls;  and  'twas  found  that  she  herself 
did  serve  these  and  counterfeit  a  man.  And  the  poet,  to 
describe  this,  doth  use  the  words,  geminos  committere 
cunnos.  And  further  on,  protesting  against  the  thing, 
he  doth  signify  the  riddle  and  give  it  out  to  be  guessed 
and  imagined,  in  this  Latin  line : 

Hie,  ubi  vir  non  est,  ut  sit  adulterium, 

"a  strange  thing,"  that  is,  "that  where  no  man  is,  yet  is 
adultery  done." 

I  knew  once  a  courtesan  of  Rome,  old  and  wily  if  ever 
there  was  one,  that  was  named  Isabella  de  Luna,  a  Span- 
ish woman,  which  did  take  in  this  sort  of  friendship 
another  courtesan  named  Pandora.  This  latter  was  even- 
tually married  to  a  butler  in  the  Cardinal  d'Armaignac's 
household,  but  without  abandoning  her  first  calling.  Now 
this  same  Isabella  did  keep  her,  and  extravagant  and  ill- 
ordered  as  she  was  in  speech,  I  have  oft  times  heard  her 
say  how  that  she  did  cause  her  to  give  her  husbands 
more  horns  than  all  the  wild  fellows  she  had  ever  had. 
I  know  not  in  what  sense  she  did  intend  this,  unless  she  did 
follow  the  meaning  of  the  Epigram  of  Martial  just  re- 
ferred to. 

Tis  said  how  that  Sappho  the  Lesbian  was  a  very  high 
mistress  in  this  art,  and  that  in  after  times  the  Lesbian 
dames  have  copied  her  therein,  and  continued  the  practice 
to  the  present  day.  So  Lucian  saith :  such  is  the  charac- 

[180] 


>7»AityiW*w^r7^tAmw*%78vtt/wr/iffi^ 


Jt-S^4!^lS<lJ^^ti«Hil«^»^^ 


ter  of  the  Lesbian  women,  which  will  not  suffer  men  at  all. 
Now  such  women  as  love  this  practice  will  not  suffer  men, 
but  devote  themselves  to  other  women  and  are  called 
tribads,  a  Greek  word  derived,  as  I  have  learned  of  the 
Greeks,  from  rpiSu,  TpiBeiv,  that  is  to  say  fricare.  These 
tribads  are  called  in  Latin  fricatrices,  and  in  French  the 
same,  that  is  women  who  do  the  way  of  donne  con  donne, 
as  it  is  still  found  at  the  present  day. 

Juvenal  again  speaks  of  these  women,  when  he  saith: 

.   .   .  frictum  Grissantis  adorat 

talking  of  such  a  tribad,  who  adored  and  loved  the  em- 
braces of  one  Grissas. 

The  excellent  and  diverting  Lucian  hath  a  chapter  on 
this  subject,  and  saith  therein  how  that  women  do  come 
mutually  together.  Moreover  this  name  of  tribad,  which 
doth  elsewhere  occur  but  rarely  as  applied  to  these 
women,  is  freely  employed  by  him  throughout,  and  he 
saith  that  the  female  sex  must  needs  be  like  the  notorious 
Philaenis,  who  was  used  to  parody  the  actions  of  manly 
love.  At  the  same  time  he  doth  add,  'tis  better  far  for 
a  woman  to  be  given  up  to  a  lustful  affection  for  playing 
the  male,  than  it  is  for  a  man  to  be  womanish ;  so  utterly 
lacking  in  all  courage  and  nobility  of  character  doth 
such  an  one  show  himself.  Thus  the  woman,  according  to 
this,  which  doth  counterfeit  the  man,  may  well  be  reputed 
to  be  more  valorous  and  courageous  than  another,  as  in 
truth  I  have  known  some  such  to  be,  as  well  in  body  as 
in  spirit. 

En  un  autre  endroit,  Lucien  introduit  deux  dames  devi- 
santes  de  cet  amour ;  et  une  demande  a  1'autre  si  une  telle 
avait  ete  amoureuse  d'elle,  et  si  elle  avait  couche  avec  elle, 

[181] 


BEM3ssg5awws^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


JiM^'^'^^l^sa^Saiiatil^ 


et  ce  qu'elle  lui  avait  fait.  L'autre  repondit  librement: 
"Premierement,  elle  me  baisa  ainsi  que  font  les  hommes, 
non  pas  seulement  en  joignant  les  levres,  mais  en  ouvrant 
aussi  la  bouche,  cela  s'entend  en  pigeonne,  la  langue  en 
bouche;  et,  encore  qu'elle  n'eut  point  le  membre  viril  et 
qu'elle  flit  semblable  a  nous  autres,  si  est-ce  qu'elle  disait 
avoir  de  coeur,  1'affection  et  tout  le  reste  viril;  et  puis 
je  1'embrassai  comme  un  homme,  et  elle  me  le  faisait,  me 
baisait  et  allentait  (je  n'entends  point  bien  ce  mot),  et  me 
semblait  qu'elle  y  prit  plaisir  outre  mesure,  et  cohabita 
d'une  certain  Ja9on  beaucoup  plus  agreable  que  d'un 
homme."  Voila  ce  qu'en  dit  Lucien. 

Well,  by  what  I  have  heard  say,  there  be  in  many 
regions  and  lands  plenty  of  such  dames  and  Lesbian  de- 
votees,— in  France,  in  Italy,  in  Spain,  Turkey,  Greece 
and  other  places.  And  wherever  the  women  are  kept  se- 
cluded, and  have  not  their  entire  liberty,  this  practice 
doth  greatly  prevail. 

The  Turkish  women  go  to  the  baths  more  for  this 
than  for  any  other  reason,  and  are  greatly  devoted  there- 
to. Even  the  courtesans,  which  have  men  at  their  wish 
and  at  all  times,  still  do  employ  this  habit,  seeking  out 
the  one  the  other,  as  I  have  heard  of  sundry  doing  in  Italy 
and  in  Spain.  In  my  native  France  women  of  the  sort  are 
common  enough;  yet  it  is  said  to  be  no  long  time  since 
they  first  began  to  meddle  therewith,  in  fact  that  the 
fashion  was  imported  from  Italy  by  a  certain  lady  of 
quality,  whom  I  will  not  name. 

Several  others  have  I  known  which  have  given  account 
of  the  same  manner  of  loves,  amongst  whom  I  have 
heard  tell  of  a  noble  lady  of  the  great  world,  who  was 
superlatively  given  this  way,  and  who  did  love  many 

[182] 


rf4W4W*W4W«W*Wi»A~^^ 


a>8aii8i!^tJigijs^^t^t^is<^^ 


ladies,  courting  the  same  and  serving  them  as  men  are 
wont.  So  would  she  take  them  and  keep  them  at  bed  and 
board,  and  give  them  whatever  they  would.  Her  husband 
was  right  glad  and  well  content  thereat,  as  were  many 
other  husbands  I  have  known,  all  of  whom  were  right  glad 
their  wives  did  follow  after  this  sort  of  affection  rather 
than  that  of  men,  deeming  them  to  be  thus  less  wild. 
But  indeed  I  think  they  were  much  deceived ;  for  by  what 
I  have  heard  said,  this  is  but  an  apprenticeship,  to  come 
later  to  the  greater  one  with  men. 

How  many  of  these  Lesbian  dames  have  I  seen  who, 
for  all  their  customs  and  habits,  yet  fail  not  at  the  last 
to  go  after  men!.  Even  Sappho  herself,  the  mistress  of 
them  all,  did  she  not  end  by  loving  her  fond,  favourite 
Phaon,  for  whose  sake  she  died?  For  after  all,  as  I  have 
heard  many  fair  ladies  declare,  there  is  nothing  like  men. 
All  these  other  things  do  but  serve  them  but  in  the  lack  of 
men.  And  if  they  but  find  a  chance  and  opportunity 
free  from  scandal,  they  will  straight  quit  their  comrades 
and  go  throw  their  arms  round  some  good  man's  neck. 

I  have  known  in  my  time  two  very  fair  and  honourable 
damsels  of  a  noble  house,  cousins  of  one  another,  which 
having  been  used  to  lie  together  in  one  bed  for  the  space 
of  three  years,  did  grow  so  well  accustomed  to  this, 
that  at  the  last  getting  the  idea  the  said  pleasure  was 
but  a  meagre  and  imperfect  one  compared  with  that  to 
be  had  with  men,  they  did  determine  to  try  the  latter, 
and  soon  became  downright  harlots.  And  this  was  the 
answer  a  very  honourable  damsel  I  knew  did  once  make  to 
her  lover,  when  he  asked  her  if  she  did  never  follow  this 
way  with  her  lady  friend, — "No,  no !"  she  replied,  "I  like 
men  too  well." 

[183] 


BffflgglgWSfflffflgaB^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gBBSSasaJMRSSg^ 

I  have  heard  of  an  honourable  gentleman  who,  desiring 
one  day  at  Court  to  seek  in  marriage  a  certain  very 
honourable  damsel,  did  consult  one  of  her  kinswomen 
thereon.  She  told  him  frankly  he  would  but  be  wasting 
his  time;  for,  as  she  did  herself  tell  me,  such  and  such  a 
lady,  naming  her,  ('twas  one  I  had  already  heard  talk  of) 
will  never  suffer  her  to  marry.  Instantly  I  did  recognize 
the  hang  of  it,  for  I  was  well  aware  how  she  did  keep  this 
damsel  at  bed  and  board,  and  did  guard  her  carefully. 
The  gentleman  did  thank  the  said  cousin  for  her  good 
advice  and  warning,  not  without  a  merry  gibe  or  two  at 
herself  the  while,  saying  she  did  herein  put  in  a  word  or 
two  for  herself  as  well  as  for  the  other,  for  that  she  did 
take  her  little  pleasures  now  and  again  under  the  rose. 
But  this  she  did  stoutly  deny  to  me. 

This  doth  remind  me  of  certain  women  which  do  thus 
and  actually  love  these  friends  so  dearly  they  would  not 
share  them  for  all  the  wealth  in  the  world,  neither  with 
Prince  nor  great  noble,  with  comrade  or  friend.  They  are 
as  jealous  of  them  as  a  beggarman  of  his  drinking  barrel; 
yet  even  he  will  offer  this  to  any  that  would  drink.  But 
this  lady  was  fain  to  keep  the  damsel  all  to  herself,  without 
giving  one  scrap  to  others. 

'Tis  said  how  that  weasels  are  touched  with  this  sort 
of  love,  and  delight  female  with  female  to  unite  and 
dwell  together.  And  so  in  hieroglyphic  signs,  women  lov- 
ing one  another  with  this  kind  of  affection  were  repre- 
sented of  yore  by  weasels.  I  have  heard  tell  of  a  lady 
which  was  used  always  to  keep  some  of  these  animals,  for 
that  she  did  take  pleasure  in  watching  her  little  pets 
together. 

Voici  un  autre  point,  c'est  que  ces  amours  feminines  se 

[184] 


r/»ir?wi^^ 


iJit»»isi5?9es«>^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


traitent  en  deux  fa^ons,  les  unes  par  fricarelles,  et  par, 
comme  dit  ce  poete,  geminos  committere  connos. 

Cette  fa£on  n'apporte  point  de  dommage,  ce  disent  au- 
cuns,  comme  quand  on  s'aide  d'instruments  fa9onnes  de 
.  .  . ,  mais  qu'on  a  voulu  appeler  des  g.  .  .  . 

J'ai  oui  conter  q'un  grand  prince,  se  doutant  de  deux 
dames  de  sa  cour  qui  s'en  aidaient,  leur  fit  faire  le  guet  si 
bien  qu'il  les  surprit,  tellement  que  1'une  se  trouva  saisie 
et  accommodee  d'un  gros  entre  les  jambes,  si  gentiment 
attache  avec  de  petites  bandelettes  a  1'entour  du  corps  qu'il 
semblait  un  membre  naturel.  Elle  en  f  ut  si  surprise  qu'elle 
n'eut  loisir  de  1'oter ;  tellement  que  ce  prince  la  contraignit 
de  lui  montrer  comment  elles  deux  se  le  faisaient. 

On  dit  que  plusieurs  femmes  en  sont  mortes,  pour  en- 
gendrer  en  leurs  matrices  des  apostumes  f  aites  par  mouve- 
ments  et  frottements  point  naturels. 

J'en  sais  bien  quelques-unes  de  ce  nombre,  dont  9*a  ete 
grand  dommage,  car  c'etaient  de  tres  belles  et  honnetes 
dames  et  demoiselles,  qu'il  cut  bien  mieux  valu  qu'elles 
eussent  eu  compagnie  de  quelques  honnetes  gentilhommes, 
qui  pour  cela  ne  les  font  mourir,  mais  vivre  et  ressusciter, 
ainsi  que  j'espere  le  dire  ailleurs;  et  meme  que  pour  la 
guerison  de  tel  mal,  comme  j'ai  oui'  conter  a  aucuns  chirur- 
giens,  qu'il  n'y  a  rien  de  plus  propre  que  de  les  faire  bien 
nettoyer  ladedans  par  ces  membres  naturels  des  hommes, 
qui  sont  meilleurs  que  des  pessaires  qu'usent  les  medecins  et 
chirurgiens,  avec  des  eaux  a  ce  composees ;  et  toutef ois  il 
y  a  plusieurs  femmes,  nonobstant  les  inconvenients  qu'elles 
en  voient  arriver  souvent,  si  f  aut-il  qu'elles  en  aient  de  ces 
engins  contrefaits. 

— J'ai  oui  faire  un  conte,  moi  etant  lors  a  la  Cour,  que 
la  reine  mere  ay  ant  fait  commandement  de  visiter  un  jour 

[185] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


*8i«^l^l^l^!^t^^ 


les  chambres  et  coffres  de  tous  ceux  qui  etaient  loges  dans 
le  Louvre,  sans  epargner  dames  et  filles,  pour  voir  s'il  n'y 
avait  point  d'armes  cachees  et  meme  des  pistolets,  durant 
nos  troubles,  il  y  en  cut  une  qui  fut  trouvee  saisie  dans  son 
coffre  par  le  capitaine  des  gardes,  non  point  de  pistolets, 
mais  de  quati'e  gros  g.  .  .  .  gentiment  fa9onnes,  qui  don- 
nerent  bien  de  la  risee  au  monde,  et  a  elle  bien  de  1'etonne- 
ment. 

Je  connais  la  demoiselle :  je  crois  qu'elle  vit  encore ;  mais 
elle  n'eut  jamais  bon  visage.  Tels  instruments  enfin  sont 
tres  dangereux.  Je  ferai  encore  ce  conte  de  deux  dames  de 
la  cour  qui  s'entr'aimaient  si  fort  et  etaient  si  chaudes  a 
leur  metier,  qu'en  quelque  endroit  qu'elles  fussent  ne  s'en 
pouvaient  garder  ni  abstenir  que  pour  le  moins  ne  fissent 
quelques  signes  d'amourettes  ou  de  baiser;  qui  les  scan- 
dulisaient  si  fort  et  donnaient  a  penser  beaucoup  aux 
homines.  II  y  en  avait  une  veuve,  et  1'autre  mariee ;  et  com- 
me  la  mariee,  un  jour  d'une  grande  magnificence,  se  fut 
fort  bien  paree  et  habillee  d'une  robe  de  toile  d'argent, 
ainsi  que  leur  maitresse  etait  allee  a  vepres,  elles  entrerent 
dans  son  cabinet,  et  sur  sa  chaise  percee  se  mirent  a  faire 
leur  fricarelle  si  rudement  et  si  impetueusement  qu'elle  en 
rompit  sous  elles,  et  la  dame  mariee  qui  faisait  le  dessous 
tomba  avec  sa  belle  robe  de  toile  d'argent  a  la  renverse 
tout  a  plat  sur  1'ordure  du  bassin,  si  bien  qu'elle  se  gata  et 
souilla  si  fort  qu'elle  ne  sut  que  faire  que  s'essuyer  le  mieux 
qu'elle  put,  se  trousser,  et  s'en  aller  en  grande  hate  changer 
de  robe  dans  sa  chambre,  non  sans  pourtant  avoir  ete 
aper^ue  et  bien  sentie  a  la  trace,  tant  elle  puait:  dont  il 
en  fut  ri  assez  par  aucuns  qui  en  surent  le  conte;  meme 
leur  maitresse  le  sut,  qui  s'en  aidait  comme  elle,  et  en  rit 
son  saoul.  Aussi  il  fallait  bien  que  cette  ardeur  les  mait- 

[186] 


BftfflftfflTWfflfrWti^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


risat  fort,  que  de  n'attendre  un  lieu  et  un  temps  a  propos, 
sans  se  scandaliser. 

Still  excuse  may  be  made  for  maids  and  widows  for 
loving  these  frivolous  and  empty  pleasures,  preferring 
to  devote  themselves  to  these  than  to  go  with  men  and  come 
to  dishonour,  or  else  to  lose  their  pains  altogether,  as 
some  have  done  and  do  every  day.  Moreover  they  deem 
they  do  not  so  much  offend  God,  and  are  not  such  great 
harlots,  as  if  they  had  to  do  with  the  men,  maintaining 
there  is  a  great  difference  betwixt  throwing  water  in  a 
vessel  and  merely  watering  about  it  and  round  the  rim. 
However  I  refer  me  to  them;  I  am  neither  their  judge  nor 
their  husband.  These  last  may  find  it  ill,  but  generally  I 
have  never  seen  any  but  were  right  glad  their  wives  should 
be  companionable  with  their  lady  friends.  And  in  very 
deed  this  is  a  very  different  thing  from  that  with  men,  and, 
let  Martial  say  what  he  please,  this  alone  will  make  no 
man  cuckold.  'Tis  no  Gospel  text,  this  word  of  a  foolish 
poet.  In  this  at  any  rate  he  saith  true,  that  'tis  much 
better  for  a  woman  to  be  masculine  and  a  very  Amazon 
and  lewd  after  this  fashion,  than  for  a  man  to  be  fem- 
inine, like  Sardanapalus  or  Heliogabalus,  and  many  an- 
other their  fellows  in  sin.  For  the  more  manlike  she  is, 
the  braver  is  she.  But  concerning  all  this,  I  must  refer 
me  to  the  decision  of  wiser  heads. 

Monsieur  du  Gua  and  I  were  reading  one  day  in  a  little 
Italian  book,  called  the  Boole  of  Beauty,  writ  in  the  form 
of  a  dialogue  by  the  Signor  Angelo  Firenzuola,  a  Floren- 
tine, and  fell  upon  a  passage  wherein  he  saith  that  women 
were  originally  made  by  Jupiter  and  created  of  such 
nature  that  some  are  set  to  love  men,  but  others  the 
beauty  of  one  another.  But  of  these  last,  some  purely 

[187] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

'Ays&aaaa^sMiM!M!jy{iMiMi^^ 

and  holily,  and  as  an  example  of  this  the  author  doth 
cite  the  very  illustrious  Marguerite  of  Austria,  which 
did  love  the  fair  Laodamia  Fortenguerre,  but  others 
again  wantonly  and  lasciviously,  like  Sappho  the  Les- 
bian, and  in  our  own  time  at  Rome  the  famous  courtesan 
Cecilia  of  Venice.  Now  this  sort  do  of  their  nature  hate 
to  marry,  and  fly  the  conversation  of  men  all  ever  they 
can. 

Hereupon  did  Monsieur  du  Gua  criticise  the  author, 
saying  'twas  a  falsehood  that  the  said  fair  lady,  Mar- 
guerite of  Austria,  did  love  the  other  fair  dame  of  a 
pure  and  holy  love.  For  seeing  she  had  taken  up  her 
rather  than  others  which  might  well  be  equally  fair  and 
virtuous  as  she,  'twas  to  be  supposed  it  was  to  use  her  for 
her  pleasures,  neither  more  nor  less  than  other  women 
that  do  the  like.  Only  to  cover  up  her  naughtiness,  she 
did  say  and  publish  abroad  how  that  her  love  for  her 
was  a  pure  and  holy  love,  as  we  see  many  of  her  fellows 
do,  which  do  dissemble  their  lewdness  with  suchlike  words. 

This  was  what  Monsieur  du  Gua  did  remark  there- 
anent;  and  if  any  man  doth  wish  to  discuss  the  matter 
farther,  well  !  he  is  at  liberty  to  do  so. 

This  same  fair  Marguerite  was  the  fairest  Princess 
was  ever  in  all  Christendom  in  her  day.  Now  beauty  and 
beauty  will  ever  feel  mutual  love  of  one  sort  or  another, 
but  wanton  love  more  often  than  the  other.  She  was 
married  three  times,  having  at  her  first  wedlock  espoused 
King  Charles  VIII.  of  France,  secondly  John,  son  of  the 
King  of  Aragon,  and  thirdly  the  Duke  of  Savoy,  sur- 
named  the  Handsome.  And  men  spake  of  them  as 
the  handsomest  pair  and  fairest  couple  of  the  time  in 
all  the  world.  However  the  Princess  did  have  little 

[188] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


profit  of  this  union,  for  that  he  died  very  young, 
and  at  the  height  of  his  beauty,  for  the  which  she  had 
very  deep  sorrow  and  regret,  and  for  that  cause  would 
never  marry  again. 

She  it  was  had  that  fair  church  2  built  which  lyeth 
near  Bourg  en  Bresse,  one  of  the  most  beautiful  and 
noble  edifices  in  Christendom.  She  was  aunt  to  the  Em- 
peror Charles,  and  did  greatly  help  her  nephew;  for  she 
was  ever  eager  to  allay  all  differences,  as  she  and  the 
Queen  Regent  did  at  the  treaty  of  Cambrai,  whereunto 
both  of  them  did  assemble  and  met  together  there.  And 
I  have  heard  tell  from  old  folk,  men  and  women,  how  it 
was  a  beauteous  sight  there  to  see  these  two  great  Prin- 
cesses together. 

Cornelius  Agrippa  hath  writ  a  brief  Treatise  on  the 
virtue  of  women,  and  all  in  panegyric  of  this  same  Mar- 
guerite. The  book  is  a  right  good  one,  as  it  could  not 
but  be  on  so  fair  a  subject,  and  considering  its  author, 
who  was  a  very  notable  personage. 

I  have  heard  a  tale  of  a  certain  great  lady,  a  Princess, 
which  among  all  her  maids  of  honour  did  love  one  above 
all  and  more  than  the  rest.  At  first  were  folk  greatly 
surprised  at  this,  for  there  were  plenty  of  others  did 
surpass  her  in  all  respects.  But  eventually  'twas  dis- 
covered she  was  a  hermaphrodite. 

I  have  heard  a  certain  great  lady  also  named  as  being 
hermaphrodite.  She  hath  a  virile  member,  but  very  tiny  ; 
yet  hath  she  more  of  the  woman's  complexion,  and  I 
know,  by  having  seen  her,  she  is  very  fair.  I  have  heard 
sundry  famous  doctors  say  they  have  seen  plenty  such. 

Well,  this  is  all  I  shall  say  on  the  subject  of  this 
Chapter,  one  I  could  have  made  a  thousand  times  longer 

[189] 


^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


than  I  have  done,  having  matter  so  ample  and  lengthy, 
that  if  all  the  cuckold  husbands  and  their  wives  that  do 
make  them  so,  were  to  hold  hands,  and  form  a  ring,  I 
verily  believe  this  would  be  great  enough  to  surround 
and  encircle  a  good  half  of  the  globe. 

In  the  days  of  the  late  King  Francis  an  old  song 
was  current,  which  I  have  heard  a  very  honourable  and 
venerable  dame  repeat,  to  the  following  effect : 

Mais  quand  viendra  la  saison 

Que  les  cocus  s'assembleront, 
Le  mien  ira  devant,  qui  portera  la  banniere ; 
Les  autres  suivront  apres,  le  vostre  sera  au  derriere. 

La  procession  en  sera  grande, 

L'on  verra  une  tres  longue  bande. 

(But  when  the  season  shall  come  that  the  cuckolds  shall 
muster,  then  mine  shall  march  in  front,  and  shall  bear  the 
banner;  the  rest  shall  follow  after,  while  yours  shall  bring  up 
the  rear.  A  grand  sight  will  the  procession  of  them  be, — a 
long,  long  train !) 

Yet  would  I  not  inveigh  over  much  against  honourable 
and  modest  wives,  which  have  borne  themselves  virtuously 
and  faithfully  in  the  fealty  sacredly  sworn  to  their  hus- 
bands; and  I  do  hope  anon  to  write  a  separate  chapter 
to  their  praise,  and  give  the  lie  to  Master  Jean  de  Meung.3 
Now  this  poet  in  his  Roman  de  la  Rose  did  write  these 
words:  Toutes  vous  autres  femmes  .  .  . 

Estes  ou  fustes, 
D'effet  ou  de  volonte,  putes. 

(Ye  women  every  one  are,  or  have  been,  mere  whores, 
if  not  in  deed,  then  in  desire.) 

By  these  verses  he  did  incur  such  ill  will  on  the  part  of 
the  Court  ladies  of  that  day,  that  by  a  plot  sanctioned 

[190] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


of  the  Queen  and  with  her  privity,  these  did  undertake 
one  day  to  whip  the  poet,  and  did  strip  him  stark  naked. 
But  as  all  stood  ready  to  strike,  he  did  beseech  them 
that  at  any  rate  the  greatest  whore  of  all  should  begin 
first.  Then  each  for  very  shame  durst  not  strike  first; 
and  in  this  wise  he  did  escape  the  whip.  Myself  have 
seen  the  story  represented  in  an  old  tapestry  among  the 
ancient  furnishings  of  the  Louvre. 


16. 


|O  less  do  I  admire  a  certain  Preacher,  who  one 
day  preaching  to  a  worthy  company,  and  tak- 
ing occasion  to  reprove  the  habits  of  some 
women  and  of  their  husbands  which  did  en- 
dure to  be  cuckolded  of  them,  did  of  a  sudden  set  to  and 
shout  out :  "Yes,  I  know  them  well,  I  can  see  them,  and  I 
am  going  to  throw  these  two  stones  at  the  heads  of  the 
biggest  cuckolds  in  the  assembly."  Then  as  he  did  make 
pretence  to  throw  them,  there  was  never  a  man  in  all  the 
congregation  but  did  duck  his  head,  or  put  up  his  cloak, 
or  his  cape,  or  his  arm,  before  his  face,  for  to  ward  off  the 
blow.  But  the  divine,  rebuking  them,  cried,  "Did  I  not 
tell  you?  I  did  suppose  there  might  be  two  or  three  cuck- 
olds in  my  congregation;  but  lo!  by  what  I  see,  there  is 
never  a  man  but  is  one." 

Still,  let  these  wild  talkers  say  what  they  will,  there  be 
many  very  chaste  and  honourable  women,  who  if  they  had 
to  give  battle  to  their  opposites,  would  gain  the  day,  not 
for  their  numbers  but  their  virtue,  which  doth  resist  and 
easily  subdue  its  contrary. 

Moreover  when  the  aforenamed  Jean  de  Meung  doth 

[191] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


KfiM^H^m'ijsaixig^i^ 


blame  those  women  which  are  "whores,  in  desire,"  meseems 
he  ought  rather  to  commend  and  extol  such  to  the  skies, 
seeing  that  if  they  do  burn  so  ardently  in  their  body  and 
spirit,  yet  put  no  wrong  in  practice,  they  do  herein  mani- 
fest their  virtue,  and  the  firmness  and  nobility  of  their 
heart.  For  they  do  choose  rather  to  burn  and  consume 
away  in  their  own  fire  and  flame  of  desire,  like  that  rare 
and  wondrous  bird  the  phoenix,  than  forfeit  and  stain 
their  honour.  Herein  they  do  resemble  the  white  ermine, 
which  had  rather  die  than  foul  itself, — 'tis  the  device  of  a 
very  great  lady  I  knew  at  one  time,  yet  but  ill  carried 
out  by  her, — seeing  how,  it  being  in  their  power  to  apply 
the  remedy,  yet  do  they  so  nobly  refrain,  and  seeing  there 
is  no  greater  virtue  nor  no  nobler  victory  than  to  master 
and  subdue  one's  own  nature.  Hereanent  we  have  a  very 
excellent  story  in  the  Cent  Nouvelles  of  the  Queen  of 
Navarre,  concerning  that  honourable  lady  of  Pampeluna, 
who  albeit  in  her  heart  and  of  desire  a  whore,  and  burning 
for  the  love  of  the  handsome  and  noble  M.  d'Avannes,  did 
choose  rather  to  die  in  her  heat  of  longing  than  seek  her 
remedy,  as  she  did  find  means  to  inform  him  in  her  dying 
words. 

Most  unfairly  and  unjustly  then  did  this  same  fair  and 
honourable  lady  bring  to  pass  her  own  death;  and,  as  I 
did  hear  an  honourable  gentleman  and  lady  say,  when 
discoursing  on  this  passage,  the  thing  was  not  void  of 
offence  against  God,  seeing  she  could  have  saved  herself 
from  death.  But  to  so  bring  it  on  herself  and  precipitate 
it,  this  is  rightly  called  suicide.  And  there  be  many  of 
her  kidney  which  by  reason  of  this  great  continence  and 
abstinence  from  the  pleasures  of  love,  do  bring  about  their 
own  death,  both  for  body  and  spirit. 

[192] 


BiWifflnfflftflfriM^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


;jl!«i^tv«u^^i^ivv^t^!^i^ 


I  have  it  from  a  very  great  physician, — and  I  fancy  he 
hath  given  a  like  lesson  and  instruction  to  several  honour- 
able dames, — that  the  human  body  can  scarce  ever  be 
well,  unless  all  the  parts  and  members  thereof,  from  the 
greatest  to  the  least,  do  all  of  them  and  in  due  accord 
perform  those  offices  and  functions  which  wise  nature  hath 
appointed  them  for  their  proper  health.  All  must  make 
one  harmony  together,  like  a  concert  of  music,  it  being  in 
no  wise  right  that  while  some  of  the  said  parts  and  mem- 
bers are  active,  others  be  out  of  work.  So  in  a  common- 
weal must  all  officers,  artisans,  workmen  and  others,  do 
their  several  tasks  unanimously,  without  idling  and  with- 
out throwing  their  work  the  one  on  the  other,  if  it  is  to 
go  well  and  the  body  politic  to  continue  healthy  and  en- 
tire. And  so  is  it  likewise  with  the  human  body. 

Suchlike  fair  ladies,  whores  in  spirit  but  chaste  in  body, 
do  verily  deserve  everlasting  praises.  Not  so  they  which 
are  cold  as  marble,  dull,  slack,  and  stirless  as  a  rock,  and 
have  naught  of  the  flesh  about  them  or  any  atom  of  feel- 
ing— though  such  are  scarce  ever  really  to  be  found. 
These  be  neither  fair  nor  sought  after  of  men,  and  may 
be  described  in  the  Latin  poet's  words, 

.  .  .  Casta  quam  nemo  rogavit, 
(Chaste,  seeing  no  man  ever  solicited  her  favours.) 

As  to  this,  I  do  know  a  great  lady,  who  was  used  to  say 
to  sundry  of  her  companions  that  were  fair  of  face, 
"Truly  God  hath  done  me  a  great  grace  in  that  he  hath 
not  made  me  fair  like  you.  For  then  should  I  have  loved 
like  you,  and  been  an  harlot  even  as  you  are."  Wherefore 
the  more  should  men  commend  such  women  as  are  fair 
and  yet  chaste,  seeing  what  their  natural  bent  is. 

[193] 


^ 


.    •    .    *  /wiMMtri 


t^^l^!Xm^!^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Very  often  too  are  we  deceived  in  such  women.  For 
some  of  them  there  be  which,  to  see  them  so  full  of  airs 
and  graces,  so  rueful  and  pitiful  of  mien,  so  cold  and  dis- 
creet in  bearing,  and  so  straitlaced  and  modest  in  their 
words  and  severe  costume,  a  man  might  well  take  for 
regular  Saints  and  most  prudish  dames.  Yet  are  the 
same  inwardly  and  of  heart's  desire,  and  eke  outwardly 
in  very  deed,  downright  fine  harlots. 

Others  again  we  see  which  by  their  pleasant  ways  and 
merry  words,  their  free  gestures  and  worldly,  modish 
dress,  might  well  be  deemed  of  dissolute  manners  and  ready 
to  give  themselves  at  a  moment's  notice.  Yet  of  their 
body  will  these  same  be  highly  correct  and  respectable 
dames, — in  the  world's  eye.  As  to  their  secret  life,  we 
can  only  guess  at  the  truth,  so  well  is  it  hid  away. 

Of  these  things  I  could  bring  forward  many  and  many 
an  example,  that  myself  have  seen  and  heard  of;  but  I 
will  content  me  with  one  which  Livy  doth  cite,  and  Boc- 
caccio in  even  better  terms,  of  a  certain  fair  Roman  dame, 
by  name  Claudia  Quinta.  This  lady  did  ever  appear 
abroad  more  than  all  the  other  Roman  ladies  in  showy  and 
something  immodest  dress,  and  by  her  gay  and  free  bear- 
ing did  seem  more  worldly  than  was  meet,  and  so  won  a 
very  ill  name  as  touching  her  honour.  Yet  when  the  great 
day  came  for  the  welcoming  to  the  city  of  the  goddess 
Cybele,  she  was  cleared  of  all  ill  repute.  For  she  had 
the  especial  honour,  above  all  other  women,  to  receive  the 
image  of  the  goddess  out  of  the  ship,  to  handle  and  con- 
vey the  same  to  the  town.  At  this  were  all  men  aston- 
ished, for  it  had  been  declared  that  the  best  man  and  the 
best  woman  of  the  city  alone  were  worthy  of  this  office. 
Note  how  folk  may  be  deceived  in  women.  One  is  bound 

[194] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


to  know  them  well  first,  and  well  examine  them,  before 
judging  them,  one  sort  as  much  as  the  other. 

So  must  I,  before  making  an  end  of  this  subject,  name 
yet  another  virtue  and  property  cuckoldry  doth  contain. 
This  I  have  of  a  very  honourable  and  fair  lady  of  a  good 
house,  into  whose  closet  being  one  day  entered  in,  I  did 
find  her  in  the  very  act  of  finishing  the  inditing  of  a  Tale 
with  her  own  hand.  This  Tale  she  did  show  me  very 
freely,  for  I  was  one  of  her  close  friends,  and  she  kept 
no  secrets  from  me.  She  was  very  witty  and  ready  of 
words,  and  right  well  endowed  for  love.  Now  the  opening 
of  the  tale  was  after  this  wise : 

"It  doth  seem,"  she  saith,  "how  that  among  other  good 
properties  cuckoldry  may  bring  with  it,  is  the  good  and 
excellent  knowledge  won  thereby  as  to  how  the  wit  is 
right  pleasantly  exercised  for  the  pleasure  and  content  of 
human  nature.  For  this  it  is  which  doth  watch  and  in- 
vent and  fashion  the  needful  artifices  to  succeed,  whereas 
mere  nature  doth  only  furnish  the  desire  and  sensual 
appetite.  And  this  may  be  hid  by  many  ruses  and  cun- 
ning devices  that  are  practised  in  the  trade  of  love, 
which  doth  give  horns  to  poor  mankind.  For  'tis  needful 
to  cajole  a  jealous,  suspicious  and  angry  husband;  'tis 
needful  to  cajole  and  blind  the  eyes  of  those  that  be  most 
ready  to  suspect  evil,  and  to  turn  aside  the  most  curious 
from  knowledge  of  the  truth.  'Tis  needful  to  inspire 
belief  in  good  faith  just  where  is  naught  but  fraud,  and 
frankness  where  is  naught  but  dissimulation.  In  a  word 
so  many  be  the  difficulties  must  be  overcome  to  ensure 
success,  these  do  far  exceed  what  natural  endowment  can 
reach.  The  wit  must  be  given  full  play,  which  doth  fur- 
nish forth  pleasure,  and  maketh  more  horns  than  ever 

[195] 


;.•»,:;•..  *    .    4    «    .    •  ^xMrtfiitir^i^r^ 


^ti«i8>SlBSi»^l®^l>«^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


the  body  doth,  which  strictly  speaking  implanteth  and 
fixeth  the  same." 

Such  were  the  very  words  of  the  said  fair  lady's  dis- 
course, without  any  change  whatsoever,  which  she  doth 
make  at  the  beginning  of  her  story,  that  she  writ  herself. 
However  she  did  disguise  the  thing  under  other  names; 
and  so,  following  out  the  loves  of  the  Lord  and  lady  she 
hath  to  do  with,  and  to  reach  an  end  and  proper  perfec- 
tion, she  doth  allege  that  the  appearance  of  love  is  but 
one  of  satisfaction  and  content.  'Tis  altogether  without 
form  until  the  entire  gratification  and  possession  of  the 
same,  and  many  a  time  folk  deem  they  have  arrived  at 
this  extreme,  when  really  they  are  far  enough  from  their 
desire.  Then  for  all  recompense  remaineth  naught  but 
the  time  lost,  a  cause  for  bitter  regrets.  These  last  words 
do  deserve  to  be  carefully  noted  and  well  weighed,  for 
they  do  hit  the  mark  and  afford  matter  for  serious 
thought.  Still  there  is  no  other  thing  but  the  actual  en- 
joyment in  love  whether  for  man  or  woman  to  prevent  all 
regrets  for  the  past  time.  And  for  this  cause  the  said 
honourable  lady  did  give  assignation  to  her  lover  in  a 
wood,  whither  oft  times  she  would  betake  her  to  walk  in  a 
very  fair  avenue,  at  the  entrance  whereof  she  did  leave 
her  women,  and  so  went  forward  to  find  him  under  a  fine, 
spreading,  shady  chestnut.  For  it  was  in  summer-tide. 
"In  the  which  retreat,"  to  go  on  with  the  lady's  tale  in 
her  own  words,  "there  is  no  doubt  what  life  the  twain  did 
lead  for  a  space,  and  what  a  fine  altar  they  did  raise  up 
to  the  poor  husband  in  the  Temple  of  Ceraton  (Temple 
of  Horns),  albeit  they  were  not  in  the  island  of  Delos, 
the  which  fane  was  made  all  of  horns, — doubtless  founded 
by  some  gay  and  gallant  fellow  of  yore." 

[196] 


;5Ki^«avwMkYir«rt^^^ 


Jl«^»/!l»^!^^&?iiaiiXJ^ 


This  is  the  way  the  lady  did  malce  a  mock  of  her  hus- 
band, as  well  in  her  writings  as  also  in  her  pleasures  and 
in  very  deed.  Note  well  all  she  saith,  for  her  words  do 
carry  weight,  being  pronounced  and  writ  down  by  so 
clever  and  honourable  a  dame. 

The  Tale  in  truth  is  right  excellent,  and  I  would  gladly 
have  copied  the  same  and  inserted  it  in  this  place.  But 
alas !  'tis  too  long,  for  the  discourse  and  negotiations  be- 
fore coming  to  the  end  they  did,  are  finely  expressed  and 
eke  lengthy.  First  she  doth  reproach  her  lover,  who  was 
ever  praising  her  extravagantly,  how  that  'twas  the  effect 
rather  of  native  and  fresh  passion  in  him  than  of  any 
especial  merit  in  her,  albeit  she  was  one  of  the  fairest  and 
most  honourable  ladies  of  the  time.  Then,  for  to  combat 
this  opinion,  the  lover  must  needs  give  great  proofs  of  his 
love,  the  which  are  right  well  specified  and  depicted  in 
the  said  Tale.  Afterward,  being  now  in  accord,  the  pair 
do  exhibit  all  sorts  of  ruses,  trickeries  and  love  cajoleries, 
both  against  the  husband  and  against  other  folk, — all 
which  be  of  a  surety  very  excellent  and  very  wittily  con- 
ceived. 

I  did  beseech  the  lady  to  give  me  a  copy  of  the  Tale. 
This  she  did  very  readily,  and  would  have  none  copy  it 
but  herself,  for  fear  of  indiscretion;  the  which  copy  I  do 
hold  as  one  of  my  most  precious  possessions. 

Now  this  lady  was  very  right  in  assigning  this  virtue 
and  good  property  to  cuckoldry.  For  before  devoting 
herself  to  love,  she  was  not  clever  at  all.  But  later,  hav- 
ing once  taken  it  in  hand,  she  did  become  one  of  the  most 
witty  and  clever  women  in  all  France,  as  well  in  this  prov- 
ince as  in  others.  And  in  truth  she  is  by  no  means  the 
enly  one  I  have  seen  which  hath  got  good  training  by  the 

[197] 


y*wwr^r/wrr*YiMkW<Mt/^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


handling  of  love.  For  I  have  known  an  host  of  dames 
which  were  most  silly  and  awkward  at  their  first  begin- 
ning; yet  had  the  same  not  tarried  a  year  at  the  school 
of  Cupid  and  his  lady  mother  Venus  before  they  came 
forth  thereof  right  clever  and  accomplished  adepts  in  all 
ways.  And  for  myself  I  have  never  yet  seen  an  harlot 
but  was  right  clever  and  well  able  to  hold  her  own. 

Now  will  I  ask  yet  this  one  question  more, — in  which 
season  of  the  year  are  the  most  cuckolds  made,  and  which 
is  the  most  meet  for  love,  and  to  shake  the  virtue  of  a 
woman,  whether  wife  or  maid  ?  Without  a  doubt  common 
consent  hath  it  there  is  never  a  time  for  this  like  the 
Spring,  the  which  doth  awaken  body  and  spirit,  both  put 
to  sleep  by  the  wearisome,  melancholic  winter-tide.  See- 
ing all  birds  and  beasts  do  rejoice  at  this  season's  com- 
ing, and  all  betake  them  to  love,  surely  mankind,  which 
have  yet  stronger  feelings  and  promptings,  will  experience 
the  same  even  more,  and  womenfolk  above  all  others, — 
an  opinion  maintained  by  many  philosophers  and  wise 
physicians.  For  truly  women  do  then  entertain  a  greater 
heat  and  lovingness  than  at  any  other  season, — as  I  have 
heard  sundry  fair  and  honourable  dames  say,  and  in  espe- 
cial a  certain  great  lady,  that  did  never  miss,  so  sure  as 
Spring-tide  came  round,  to  be  more  touched  and  pricked 
of  these  feelings  than  at  any  other  period  whatsoever. 
She  was  used  to  say  she  did  feel  the  fresh  grass  springing, 
and  did  crave  after  the  same  like  as  mare  and  colts  do, 
and  she  must  needs  taste  thereof,  or  she  should  grow  pined 
and  thin.  And  this  she  did,  I  do  assure  you,  and  at  the 
season  did  wax  more  lustful  than  ever.  Thus  three  or 
four  new  intrigues  that  I  have  seen  her  enter  on  in  her 
life,  all  these  she  did  commence  in  Spring, — and  not  with- 

[198] 


ffffflgwwwggraigwgffi'gigwws^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


«^!^i^!is^isS(^s*^ls^ 


out  reason;  for  of  all  the  months  in  the  year,  April  and 
May  be  the  most  surely  consecrate  and  devoted  to  Venus, 
at  the  which  times  fair  ladies  do  set  them,  more  than 
afore,  to  pet  their  bodies  and  deck  them  out  daintily,  to 
arrange  their  hair  in  wanton  wise  and  don  light  raiment. 
And  it  may  well  be  said  how  that  these  new  changes  in 
dress  and  ways  do  all  aim  at  one  and  the  same  thing,  to 
wit  lasciviousness,  and  to  people  the  earth  with  cuckoos 
a-walking  about  thereon,  to  match  the  winged  ones  that 
the  air  of  heaven  doth  produce  in  these  same  months  of 
April  and  May. 

Further,  'tis  not  to  be  supposed  but  that  fair  dames, 
maids  and  widows  alike,  whenas  they  do  behold  in  their 
walks  abroad  in  their  forests  and  woods,  their  warrens, 
parks,  meadows,  gardens,  shrubberies  and  other  pleas- 
aunces,  beasts  and  birds  all  a-making  love  together  and 
sporting  in  wanton  wise,  should  feel  strange  prickings  in 
their  flesh,  which  do  make  them  fain  to  apply  instant  rem- 
edy for  the  smart.  And  this  is  just  one  of  the  persuasive 
and  moving  things  that  a  many  lovers  are  wont  to  say 
one  to  the  other,  when  they  see  their  mates  lacking  heat 
and  flame  and  zest ;  for  then  do  they  upbraid  them,  point- 
ing to  the  example  of  beasts  and  birds,  the  which  whether 
wild  or  tame,  as  sparrows  and  house-pigeons,  are  ever  at 
some  wanton  sport,  ever  engendering  and  conceiving,  all 
nature  at  the  work  of  reproduction,  down  to  the  very 
trees  and  plants.  Now  this  is  what  a  fair  Spanish  lady 
found  one  day  to  say  to  a  cavalier  who  was  over  cold 
or  over  respectful:  Sa,  gentil  cavallero,  mira  como  los 
amores  de  todas  suertes  se  tratan  y  triumfan  en  este 
verano,  y  V,  S.  quada  flaco  y  abatido,  that  is  to  say, 
"See,  Sir  cavalier,  how  everv  sort  of  love  doth  prevail 

[199] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


!»a{ll^l^t&aig/)t^t^(Jgg(^l^ 


and  triumph  in  this  Spring-time ;  yet  all  the  while  you  are 
slack  and  crest-fallen." 

Spring-time  ended  doth  give  place  to  Summer,  which 
cometh  after,  bringing  its  hot  days  with  it.  And  seeing 
one  heat  doth  provoke  another,  fair  dames  do  thereby 
double  theirs;  and  truly  no  refreshment  can  so  well  as- 
suage the  same  as  a  bain  chaud  et  trouble  de  sperme  ve- 
nerig.  'Tis  in  no  wise  contrary  to  sense  for  an  ill  to  be 
medicined  by  its  contrary,  as  like  is  medicined  by  like. 
For  albeit  a  woman  should  bathe  her  every  day,  and  every 
day  plunge  in  the  clearest  fountain  of  a  whole  country- 
side, yet  do  this  naught  avail,  nor  yet  the  lightest  gar- 
ments ever  she  can  don,  for  to  give  her  refreshing  cool- 
ness, though  she  tuck  them  up  as  short  as  she  please, 
without  ever  a  petticoat,  as  many  do  in  hot  weather. 
And  this  is  just  the  worst  of  it ;  for  in  such  costume  are 
they  drawn  to  look  at  themselves,  and  take  delight  in  their 
own  beauty,  and  pore  over  their  own  charms  in  the  fair 
sunlight,  and  thus  beholding  their  bodies  so  fair,  white, 
smooth,  plump  and  in  good  case,  do  of  a  sudden  feel  the 
heat  of  concupiscence  and  sore  temptation.  But  indeed 
of  such  martyrs  of  continence  mighty  few  have  ever  been 
known ;  and  silly  fools  would  they  have  been,  had  it  been 
otherwise.  And  so  they  lie  there  in  their  fine  beds,  unable 
to  endure  coverlet  or  sheet,  but  tucking  up  their  very 
shifts  to  display  themselves  half  naked ;  then  at  daybreak, 
as  the  rising  sun  doth  shine  in  on  them  and  they  come  to 
contemplate  their  bodies  more  closely  still  and  at  their 
ease  on  all  sides  and  in  every  part,  they  grow  exceeding 
fain  after  their  lovers  and  fondly  wait  their  coming.  And 
so,  should  these  by  any  hap  arrive  at  this  moment,  lo! 
they  are  right  welcome,  and  very  soon  clipped  in  their 

[200] 


r/Wil/svir^iVWir^iirMi/Wi^ 


'Si!!i®ii^mKS^*y^^ 


arms  and  close  embraced.  "For  then,"  say  they,  "is  the 
very  best  embracement  and  enjoyment  of  any  hour  of 
day  or  night." 

None  the  less  is  there  an  old  proverb  which  saith :  "June 
and  July,  mouth  wet  and  body  dry ;"  and  to  these  may  be 
added  the  month  of  August  likewise.  The  same  is  true 
also  of  men,  who  are  in  a  parlous  state  when  they  do  get 
overheated  at  these  seasons,  and  in  especial  when  the  dog- 
star  is  in  the  ascendant, — a  thing  they  should  beware  of. 
But  if  they  will  burn  at  their  own  candle,  well !  so  much 
the  worse  for  them !  Women  run  no  such  risk,  for  that 
everjr  month,  and  every  season,  every  time  and  every 
planet,  are  good  for  them. 

Then  again  the  good  summer  fruits  appear,  that  seem 
as  if  they  must  refresh  these  worthy  dames.  Some  I  have 
noted  to  eat  little  of  these,  others  much.  Yet  for  all  this, 
scarce  any  change  is  seen  in  their  heat,  whether  they  eat 
much  or  little,  whether  they  refrain  altogether  or  eat 
thereof  freely.  For  the  worst  of  it  is  that,  if  there  be 
sundry  fruits  which  have  power  to  refresh,  there  are  many 
others  that  have  just  as  powerful  a  heating  effect, — to 
the  which  the  ladies  do  most  often  resort,  as  also  to  sundry 
simples  that  be  of  their  nature  good  and  pleasant  to  eat 
in  soups  and  salads,  as  for  example  asparagus,  artichokes, 
morels,  truffles,  mushrooms,  and  pumpkins.  Then  there 
be  sundry  newfangled  viands  which  the  cooks,  at  their 
orders,  do  well  know  how  to  contrive  and  accommodate  at 
once  to  their  gourmandise  and  their  wanton  desires,  and 
which  doctors  likewise  are  cunning  in  ordering  them.  But 
if  only  some  wise  gallant,  expert  in  these  mysteries,  would 
undertake  to  complete  this  poor  account  of  mine,  he 
might  well  fulfil  the  task  far  better  than  I  can. 

[201] 


swras^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     L  A  D  I  ES 


&MS&s^sis^^Ai^ 


After  all  these  fine  dainties,  look  to  yourselves,  that's 
all,  poor  lovers  and  husbands !  Verily  if  you  be  not  well 
prepared,  you  are  very  like  to  be  disgraced,  and  find  the 
fair  ones  have  left  you  for  pastures  new. 

Nor  is  this  all;  for  to  these  new  fruits,  and  herbs  of 
garden  and  field,  must  be  added  great  rich  pasties,  an  in- 
vention of  late  times,  compounded  of  great  store  of  pis- 
tachio nuts,  pine-seeds  and  other  inflammatory  drugs  of 
the  apothecary's  store,  the  which  Summer  doth  produce 
and  give  in  greater  abundance  than  Winter  and  the  other 
seasons.  Moreover  in  Summer  time  is  there  usually  a 
greater  slaughter  of  cockerels  and  young  cocks ;  where- 
as in  Winter  'tis  rather  the  grown  birds,  that  are  not 
so  good  or  so  fitting  for  this  as  the  young  ones,  these 
last  being  hotter,  more  ardent  and  more  wanton  than  the 
other  sort.  Here  is  one,  amongst  many,  of  the  good 
pleasures  and  conveniences  that  Summer-tide  doth  afford 
for  lovers. 

Now  these  pasties  compounded  in  this  wise  of  dainty 
trifles,  of  young  cocks  and  the  tips  of  artichokes  and 
truffles,  or  other  heating  viands,  are  much  used  by  many 
ladies,  by  what  I  hear  said.  And  these  same  ladies,  when 
they  are  eating  thereof  and  a-fishing  in  the  platter,  put- 
ting their  hand  into  the  mess  or  plunging  a  fork  therein, 
will  bring  out  and  clap  in  their  mouth  now  an  artichoke 
or  a  truffle,  now  a  pistachio-nut  or  a  cockscomb  or  other 
morsel,  and  at  any  of  these  will  cry  out  with  a  look  of 
sad  disappointment,  "Bah!  a  blank."  But  when  they 
come  across  one  of  the  dear  cock's  crests,  and  find  these 
under  their  teeth,  lo !  they  do  exclaim,  "A  prize,  by'r 
lady !"  and  laugh  gaily.  'Tis  like  at  the  lottery  in  Italy ; 

[202] 


^ 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

iffisgsgi^gassgs;^^ 

and  a  man  might  deem  they  had  drawn  a  real  prize  and 
won  some  rich  and  precious  jewel. 

Well  !  they  surely  owe  good  thanks  to  these  same  good 
little  cockerels,  which  Summer  doth  produce,  —  as  doth  the 
first  half  of  Autumn  likewise,  the  which  season  I  put  along 
with  Summer.  The  same  time  of  each  year  doth  give  us 
many  other  sorts  of  fruits  and  small  fowl  that  are  an 
hundred  times  more  hot  than  those  of  Winter-tide  or  the 
second  half  of  Autumn,  the  near  neighbour  of  chill  Win- 
ter. True  this  is  reckoned  part  of  the  season  of  Autumn  ; 
yet  can  we  not  gather  therein  all  these  excellent  simples 
at  their  best  nor  aught  else  as  in  the  hot  time  of  the  year. 
Yet  doth  Winter  ever  endeavour  to  supply  what  it  may,  — 
for  instance  those  good  thistles  which  do  engender  an 
excellent  heat  and  concupiscence,  whether  raw  or  cooked, 
including  the  little  hot  field  thistles,  on  the  which  asses 
live  and  thrive  and  are  vigorous  love-makers.  These  Sum- 
mer doth  harden  and  dry  up,  whereas  Winter  doth  make 
the  same  tender  and  delicate.  Exceeding  good  salads  are 
made  of  these,  —  a  new  invented  delicacy. 

Furthermore,  and  beside  all  these  things,  so  many  other 
serviceable  drugs  are  sought  out  by  apothecaries,  dealers 
and  perfumers,  that  naught  is  overlooked,  whether  for 
these  same  pasties  or  for  soups.  And  of  a  surety  good 
justification  may  be  found  by  women  for  this  keeping  up 
and  maintaining  of  the  heat  in  Winter  time  all  ever  they 
can.  "For,"  say  they,  "just  as  we  are  careful  to  main- 
tain the  heat  of  the  outside  of  the  body  by  heavy  clothing 
and  thick  furs,  why  shall  we  not  do  the  same  for  the  in- 
side?" The  men  say  on  their  side,  "Nay!  what  availeth 
it  thus  to  add  heat  to  heat,  like  putting  silk  on  silk,  con- 
trary to  the  Canons,  seeing  of  their  own  selves  they  be 

[203] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


;iiaa!^t^!^®4i»gia«H®H^!^!l®^ 


hot  enough  already,  and  that  at  whatsoever  hour  we  are 
fain  to  assail  them,  they  be  always  ready  by  their  natural 
complexion,  without  resort  to  any  artificial  aid  at  all?" 
What  would  you  have?  Mayhap  'tis  that  they  fear  their 
hot  and  boiling  blood  will  lose  strength  and  ebb  in  their 
veins,  and  grow  chill  and  icy,  and  if  it  be  not  kept  hot, 
like  that  of  an  hermit  that  liveth  on  roots  alone. 

Well !  well !  let  them  have  their  way.  'Tis  all  good  for 
merry  gallants ;  for  women  being  so  constantly  in  ardour, 
at  the  smallest  assailment  of  love  upon  them,  lo !  they  are 
taken  at  once,  and  the  poor  husbands  cuckold  and  horned 
like  satyrs!  Nay!  sometimes  they  will  go  still  further, 
these  worthy  dames,  for  that  they  do  sometimes  share 
their  good  pasties,  broths  and  soups  with  their  lovers  out 
of  compassion,  to  the  end  these  may  be  more  doughty 
and  not  find  themselves  overexhausted  when  it  cometh  to 
work,  and  so  themselves  may  enjoy  more  exciting  and 
abundant  pleasure.  Likewise  will  they  give  them  receipts 
to  have  dishes  compounded  privately  in  their  own  kitch- 
ens. But  herein  have  some  been  sore  deceived  and  disap- 
pointed. Thus  a  certain  gallant  gentleman  I  have  heard 
tell  of,  having  in  this  wise  taken  his  special  soup  and  com- 
ing all  cock-a-whoop  to  accost  his  mistress,  did  threat  her 
how  that  he  would  give  it  her  soundly,  telling  her  he  had 
taken  his  soup  and  eat  his  pasty.  She  did  merely  answer 
him,  ''Well!  you  shall  prove  your  worth;  at  present  I 
know  naught  about  it."  Presently,  when  they  were  now  in 
each  other's  arms  and  at  work,  these  dainties  did  but  serve 
him  poorly.  Whereon  the  lady  did  declare  that  either 
his  cook  had  compounded  them  ill,  or  had  been  niggardly 
of  the  drugs  and  ingredients  needed,  or  else  he  had  not 
made  all  due  preparation  before  taking  his  sovran  medi- 

[204] 


BTWfiT^gftlgfflgWftl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gMB^ByiBgsiyfliyii^ 

cine,  or  mayhap  his  body  was  for  that  while  ill  disposed 
to  take  it  and  feel  the  proper  effects  thereof.  Thus  did 
she  make  mock  of  the  poor  man. 

Still  'tis  to  be  remembered  all  simples  and  all  drugs,  all 
viands  and  all  medicines,  are  not  suitable  for  all  alike. 
With  some  they  will  operate,  while  others  do  but  draw 
blank.  Moreover  I  have  known  women  which,  eating  of 
these  viands,  when  'twas  cast  up  to  them  how  they  would 
surely  by  this  means  have  extraordinary  and  excessive  en- 
joyment, could  yet  declare,  and  affirm  the  same  on  oath, 
that  such  diet  did  never  cause  them  any  temptation  of  any 
sort  whatever.  But  God  wot,  they  must  herein  surely 
have  been  playing  the  pretended  prude! 

Now  as  to  the  claims  of  Winter,  ladies  that  do  cham- 
pion this  season,  maintain  that  for  soups  and  hot  viands, 
they  do  know  as  good  receipts  for  to  make  these  every 
whit  as  good  in  Winter  time  as  at  any  other  part  of  the 
year.  They  do  possess  ample  experience,  and  do  declare 
this  season  very  meet  for  love-making.  True  it  is  Win- 
ter is  dim  and  dark,  close,  quiet,  retired  and  secret,  yet 
so  must  love  be,  and  be  performed  in  secret,  in  some  re- 
tired and  darkling  spot, — whether  in  a  closet  apart,  or 
in  a  chimney  corner  near  a  good  fire,  the  which  doth  en- 
gender, by  keeping  close  thereto  and  for  a  considerable 
while,  as  much  good  heat  as  ever  the  Summer  can  pro- 
voke. Then  how  it  is  in  the  dimly  lit  space  betwixt  bed 
and  wall,  where  the  eyes  of  the  company,  provided  they 
be  near  the  fire  a-warming  of  themselves,  do  but  hardly 
penetrate,  or  else  seated  on  chests  or  beds  in  remote  cor- 
ners, so  to  enjoy  dalliance.  For  seeing  man  and  maid 
pressing  the  one  to  the  other,  folk  deem  'tis  but  because 
of  the  cold  and  to  keep  them  warm.  Yet  in  this  wise  are 

[205] 


feWiffiftfflftfflfiffl^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


fine  things  done,  when  the  lights  are  far  withdrawn  on  a 
distant  table  or  sideboard. 

Besides,  which  is  best,  Summer  or  Winter,  when  one  is 
in  bed?  'Tis  the  greatest  delight  in  all  the  world  for 
lovers,  man  and  maid,  to  cling  together  and  kiss  close,  to 
entwine  one  with  other,  for  fear  of  the  nipping  cold,  and 
this  not  for  a  brief  space  but  for  a  long  while,  and  so 
right  pleasantly  warm  each  other,  —  all  this  without  feel- 
ing aught  at  all  of  the  excessive  heat  Summer  doth  pro- 
voke, and  that  extreme  of  sweating  that  doth  sore  hinder 
the  carrying  out  of  love.  For  truly  in  Summer  time,  in- 
stead of  embracing  tight  and  pressing  together  and 
squeezing  close,  a  pair  must  needs  hold  loosely  and  much 
apart.  Then  Winter  is  best  in  this,  say  the  ladies,  ac- 
cording to  the  doctors  :  men  are  more  meet  for  love,  more 
ardent  and  devoted  thereto,  in  Winter  than  in  Summer. 

I  knew  once  in  former  days  a  very  great  Princess,  who 
was  possessed  of  much  wit,  and  both  spake  and  wrote 
better  than  most.  One  day  she  did  set  herself  to  com- 
pose verses  in  favour  and  praise  of  Winter,  and  the  meet- 
ness  of  that  season  for  love.  By  this  we  may  conceive 
herself  had  found  it  highly  favourable  and  fitting  for  the 
same.  These  stanzas  were  very  well  composed,  and  I  had 
them  long  preserved  in  my  study.  Would  I  had  valued 
them  more,  and  could  find  them  now,  to  give  the  same  here, 
to  the  end  men  might  read  therein  and  mark  the  great 
merits  of  Wintertide  and  the  good  properties  and  meet- 
ness  for  love  of  that  season. 

I  knew  another  very  high-born  lady,  and  one  of  the 
fairest  women  in  all  the  world,  which  being  new  widowed, 
and  making  pretence  she  cared  not,  in  view  of  her  new 
weeds  and  state  of  widowhood,  to  go  of  evenings  after 

[206] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


supper  either  to  visit  the  Court,  or  the  dance,  or  the 
Queen's  couchee,  and  was  fain  not  to  seem  worldly-minded, 
did  never  leave  her  chamber,  but  suffering  all  and  sundry 
of  her  attendants,  male  and  female,  to  hie  them  to  the 
dance,  and  her  son  and  every  soul  about  her,  or  even 
actually  sending  them  thither,  would  retire  to  her  secret 
chamber.  And  thither  her  lover  of  old,  well  treated, 
loved  and  favoured  of  her  in  her  married  life,  would  pres- 
ently arrive.  Or  else,  having  supped  with  her,  he  would 
stay  on  and  never  leave  her,  sitting  out  a  certain  brother- 
in-law,  who  was  much  by  way  of  guarding  the  fair  lady 
from  ill.  So  there  would  they  practise  and  renew  their 
former  loves,  and  indulge  in  new  ones  preparatory  to  a 
second  wedlock,  the  which  was  duly  accomplished  the  fol- 
lowing Summer.  Well!  by  all  I  can  see  after  duly  con- 
sidering the  circumstances,  I  do  believe  no  other  season 
could  have  been  so  favourable  for  their  projects  as  Win- 
ter was,  as  indeed  I  did  overhear  one  of  her  dainty,  in- 
triguing maids  also  declare. 

So  now,  to  draw  to  an  end,  I  do  maintain  and  declare: 
that  all  seasons  be  meet  for  love,  when  they  be  chosen 
suitably,  and  so  as  to  accord  with  the  caprice  of  the  men 
and  women  which  do  adopt  the  same.  For  just  as  War, 
that  is  Mars'  pastime,  is  made  at  all  seasons  and  times, 
and  just  as  the  God  doth  give  his  victories  as  it  pleaseth 
him,  and  according  as  he  doth  find  his  fighting  men  well 
armed  and  of  good  spirit  to  offer  battle,  so  doth  Venus 
in  like  wise,  according  as  she  doth  find  her  bands  of  lovers, 
men  and  maids,  well  disposed  for  the  fray.  Indeed  the 
seasons  have  scarce  aught  to  do  therewith,  and  which  of 
them  is  taken  and  which  chosen  doth  make  but  little  dif- 
ference. Nor  yet  do  their  simples,  or  fruits,  their  drugs, 

[207] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


or  drug-dealers,  nor  any  artifice  or  device  that  women  do 
resort  to,  much  avail  them,  whether  to  augment  their 
heat,  or  to  refresh  and  cool  the  same. 

For  indeed,  as  to  this  last,  I  do  know  a  great  lady, 
whose  mother,  from  her  childhood  up,  seeing  her  of  a 
complexion  so  hot  and  lecherous  that  it  was  like  to  take 
her  one  fine  day  straight  on  the  road  to  the  brothel,  did 
make  her  use  sorrel- juice  constantly  by  the  space  of 
thirty  years  regularly  at  all  her  meals,  whether  with  her 
meat  or  in  her  soups  and  broths,  or  to  drink  great  two- 
handled  bowls  full  thereof  unmixed  with  other  viands;  in 
one  word  every  sauce  she  did  taste  was  sorrel- juice,  sorrel- 
juice,  everlastingly.  Yet  were  these  mysterious  and  cool- 
ing devices  all  in  vain,  for  she  ended  by  becoming  a  right 
famous  and  most  arrant  harlot, — one  that  had  never  need 
of  those  pasties  I  have  spoke  of  above  to  give  her  heat  of 
body,  seeing  she  had  enough  and  to  spare  of  her  own. 
Yet  is  this  lady  as  greedy  as  any  to  eat  of  these  same 
dishes ! 

Well!  I  must  needs  make  an  end,  albeit  I  could  have 
said  much  more  and  alleged  many  more  good  reasons  and 
instances.  But  we  must  not  be  for  ever  gnawing  con- 
tentedly at  the  same  bone ;  and  I  would  fain  hand  over  my 
pen  to  another  and  better  writer  than  myself,  to  argue 
out  the  merits  of  the  divers  seasons.  I  will  only  name 
the  wish  and  longing  a  worthy  Spanish  dame  did  once 
express.  The  same  did  wish  and  desire  it  to  be  Winter 
when  her  love  time  should  be,  and  her  lover  a  fire,  to  the 
end  that  when  she  should  come  to  warm  herself  at  him  and 
be  rid  of  the  bitter  cold  she  should  feel,  he  might  enjoy 
the  delight  of  warming  her,  and  she  of  absorbing  his  heat 
as  she  did  get  warm.  Moreover  she  would  so  have  oppor- 

[208] 


BftfflftmWtiWMftffl^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


tunity  of  displaying  and  exposing  herself  to  him  often 
and  at  her  ease,  that  he  might  enjoy  the  sight  of  her 
lovely  limbs  hid  before  under  her  linen  and  skirts,  as  to 
warm  herself  the  more  thoroughly,  and  keep  up  her  other, 
internal,  fire  and  heat  of  concupiscence. 

Next  she  did  wish  for  Spring  to  come,  and  her  lover  to 
be  a  garden  full  of  flowers,  with  the  which  she  might 
deck  her  head  and  her  beautiful  throat  and  bosom,  yea! 
and  roll  her  lovely  body  among  them  between  the  sheets. 

Likewise  she  did  oftimes  wish  it  to  be  Summer,  and  her 
lover  a  clear  fountain  or  glittering  stream,  for  to  receive 
her  in  his  fair,  fresh  waters,  when  she  should  go  to  bathe 
therein  and  take  sport,  and  so  fully  and  completely  to 
let  him  see,  touch  over  and  over  again,  each  of  her  lovely, 
wanton  limbs. 

Finally  she  did  desire  it  to  be  Autumn,  for  him  to  re- 
turn once  more  to  his  proper  shape,  and  she  to  be  a  woman 
and  her  lover  a  man,  that  both  might  in  that  season  have 
wit,  sense  and  reason  to  contemplate  and  remember  over 
all  the  by-gone  happiness,  and  so  live  in  these  delight- 
some memories  and  reveries  of  the  past,  and  inquire  and 
discourse  betwixt  them  which  season  had  been  most  meet 
and  pleasant  for  their  loves. 

In  such  wise  was  this  lady  used  to  apportion  and  ad- 
judge the  seasons.  Wherein  I  do  refer  me  to  the  decision 
of  better  informed  writers  than  myself  to  say  which  of 
the  four  was  like  to  be  in  its  qualities  most  delightful  and 
agreeable  to  the  twain. 

Now  for  good  and  all  I  do  make  an  end  of  this  present 
subject.  If  any  will  know  further  thereof  and  learn  more 
of  the  divers  humours  of  cuckolds,  let  him  study  an  old 

[209] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


i^t^^Hjitn^t^ijsaa^ 


song  which  was  made  at  Court  some  fifteen  or  sixteen 
years  agone,  concerning  cuckolds,  whereof  this  is  the 
burden : 

Un  cocu  meine  1'autre,  et  tous jours  sont  en  peine; 
Un  cocu  meine  1'autre. 

(One  cuckoo  maketh  many,  and  all  are  in  sorry  case;  one 
cuckoo  many  maketh.) 

I  beg  all  honourable  ladies  which  shall  read  any  of  my 
tales  in  this  chapter,  if  byhap  they  do  pay  any  heed  to 
the  same,  to  forgive  me  and  if  they  be  somewhat  highly 
spiced,  for  that  I  could  scarce  have  disguised  them  in 
more  modest  fashion,  seeing  the  sauce  such  must  needs 
have.  And  I  will  say  further  I  could  well  have  cited 
others  still  more  extravagant  and  diverting,  were  it  not 
that,  finding  it  impossible  to  cover  the  same  with  any 
veil  of  decent  modesty,  I  was  afeared  to  offend  such  hon- 
ourable ladies  as  shall  be  at  the  pains  and  do  me  the 
honour  to  read  my  books.  Now  will  I  add  but  one  thing 
further,  to  wit,  that  these  tales  which  I  have  here  set  down 
are  no  petty  stories  of  market-town  and  village  gossip, 
but  do  come  from  high  and  worthy  sources,  and  deal  not 
with  common  and  humble  personages.  I  have  cared  not 
to  have  aught  to  do  but  only  with  great  and  high  subjects, 
albeit  I  have  dealt  with  such  discreetly ;  and  as  I  name  no 
names,  I  think  I  have  well  avoided  all  scandal  and  cause 
of  offence. 

Femmes,  qui  transformez  vos  marys  en  oyseaux, 
Ne  vous  en  lassez  point,  la  forme  en  est  tres-belle; 
Car,  si  vous  les  laissez  en  leurs  premieres  peaux, 
Ilz  voudront  vous  tenir  tou jours  en  curatelle, 
[210] 


LIVE  S     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Et  comme  homines  voudront  user  de  leur  puissance ; 
Au  lieu  qu'estant  oyseaux,  ne  vous  feront  d'offense. 

(Ladies  fair,  which  do  transform  your  husbands  into  birds, 
weary  not  of  the  task,  the  shape  they  so  take  is  a  right  con- 
venient one.  For  if  you  do  leave  them  in  their  first  skins,  they 
will  for  ever  keep  you  under  watch  and  ward,  and  manlike  will 
fain  to  use  their  power  over  you;  whereas  being  birds,  they 
will  do  you  no  offence.) 

Another  Song: 

Ceux  qui  voudront  blasmer  les  femmes  amiables 
Qui  font  secretement  leurs  bons  marys  cornards, 
Les  blasment  a  grand  tort,  et  ne  sont  que  bavards; 
Car  elles  font  1'aumosne  et  sont  fort  charitables. 
En  gardant  bien  la  loy  a  1'aumosne  donner, 
Ne  faut  en  hypocrit  la  trompette  sonner. 

(They  that  will  be  blaming  well  meaning  wives  which  do  in 
secret  give  their  husbands  horns,  these  do  much  wrong  by  their 
reproaches,  and  are  but  vain  babblers;  for  indeed  such  dames 
are  but  giving  alms  and  showing  good  charity.  They  do  well 
observe  the  Christian  law  of  almsgiving, — never,  like  the 
hypocrites,  sound  the  trumpet  to  proclaim  your  good  deeds!) 

An  old  Rhyme  on  the  Game  of  Love, — found  by  the 
Author  among  some  old  papers: 

Le  jeu  d'amours,  ou  jeunesse  s'esbat, 
A  un  tablier  se  peut  accomparer. 
Sur  un  tablier  les  dames  on  abat ; 
Puis  il  convient  le  trictrac  preparer, 
Et  en  celui  ne  faut  que  se  parer. 
Plusieurs  font  Jean.    N'est-ce  pas  jeu  honneste, 
[211] 


rTftfcstfrrrfFffiit/stf/svWirit^^ 


,'im^»^!^i»4i^i^i^i^!^i|*ai^ 


Qui  par  nature  un  joueur  admoneste 
Passer  le  temps  de  coeur  joyeusement? 
Mais  en  defaut  de  trouver  la  raye  nette, 
II  s'en  ensuit  un  grand  jeu  de  torment. 

(The  game  of  love,  whereat  youth  takes  its  delight,  may  be 
likened  to  a  chess-board.  On  a  chess-board  we  lay  down  the 
pieces, — dames,  ladies;  then  'tis  the  time  to  marshal  our  men, 
and  herein  we  have  but  to  make  the  best  game  we  can.  Many 
play  the  masterful  king;  and  is  it  not  merely  fair  play,  and  an 
abomination  of  dame  Nature,  that  a  man  should  make  his  game 
in  hearty,  joyous  wise?  But  should  he  fail  to  find  a  sound 
queen  (quean),  why!  his  game  is  like  to  end  in  woeful  pain 
and  sorrow.1) 


[212] 


SECOND  DISCOURSE 


tnc    question  wnico  ooto  ovoc  toe   tnotc    content  in 
l  <J 

iooc,   vooctfoct  loucntncu   dccina  ot  apcolclna. 

INTRODUCTION 

|HIS  is  a  question  as  concerning  love  that  might 
well  deserve  a  more  profound  and  deeper 
writer  to  solve  than  I,  to  wit:  which  doth 
afford  the  more  contentment  in  the  fruition 
of  love,  whether  contact  or  attouchment,  speech,  or  sight. 
Mr.  Pasquier,1  a  great  authority  of  a  surety  in  juris- 
prudence the  which  is  his  especial  profession,  as  well  as 
in  the  polite  and  humane  sciences,  doth  give  a  disquisition 
thereon  in  his  letters,  the  which  he  hath  left  us  in  writ- 
ing. Yet  hath  he  been  by  far  too  brief,  and  seeing  how 
distinguished  a  man  he  is,  he  should  not  in  this  matter 
have  shown  himself  so  niggard  of  his  wise  words  as  he 
hath  been.  For  if  only  he  had  seen  good  to  enlarge 
somewhat  thereon,  and  frankly  to  declare  what  he  might 
well  have  told  us,  his  letter  which  he  hath  indited  on  this 
point  had  been  an  hundred  times  more  delightsome  and 
agreeable. 

He  doth  base  his  main  discourse  on  sundry  ancient 
rhymes  of  the  Comte  Thibaut  de  Champagne,2  the  which 
verses  I  have  never  set  eyes  on,  save  only  the  small  frag- 

[213] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


ment  that  M.  Pasquier  doth  quote  in  his  letter.  This 
same  good  and  gallant  Knight  of  yore  doth,  I  conceive, 
write  exceeding  well,  —  not  certainly  in  such  good  set  terms 
as  do  our  gallant  poets  of  to-day,  but  still  with  excellent 
good  sense  and  sound  reason.  Moreover  he  had  a  right 
beauteous  and  worthy  subject,  to  wit  the  fair  Queen 
Blanche  of  Castille,  mother  of  Saint-Louis,  of  whom  he 
was  not  little  enamoured,  but  indeed  most  deeply,  and 
had  taken  her  for  his  mistress.  But  in  this  what  blame 
or  what  reproach  for  the  said  Queen?  Though  she  had 
been  the  most  prudent  and  virtuous  of  women,  yet  could 
she  in  any  wise  hinder  the  world  from  loving  her  and 
burning  at  the  fire  of  her  beauty  and  high  qualities,  see- 
ing it  is  the  nature  of  all  merit  and  high  perfection  to 
provoke  love?  The  whole  secret  is  not  to  yield  blindly 
to  the  will  of  the  lover. 

This  is  why  we  must  not  deem  it  strange,  or  blame  this 
fair  Queen,  if  that  she  was  too  fondly  loved,  and  that  dur- 
ing her  reign  and  sovereignty  there  did  prevail  in  France 
sore  divisions  and  seditions  and  much  civil  strife.  For,  as 
I  have  heard  said  by  a  very  great  personage,  seditions  be 
oft  stirred  up  as  much  for  intrigues  of  love  as  by  embroil- 
ments of  State;  and  in  the  days  of  our  fathers  was 
current  an  old  saw,  which  said  that  :  All  the  world  went 
mad  after  the  merry-hearted  Queen. 

I  know  not  for  sure  of  which  Queen  this  word  was  said  ; 
but  it  may  well  be  'twas  pronounced  by  this  same  Comte 
Thibaut,  who  very  like,  either  because  he  was  treated  ill  of 
her  as  concerning  that  he  was  fain  of,  or  that  his  love  was 
scorned  altogether,  or  another  preferred  before  him,  did 
conceive  in  his  heart  such  a  disgust  and  discontent  as  did 
urge  him  to  his  ruin  in  the  wars  and  troubles  of  the  time. 

[214] 


totitrttfftiSffffiivA^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


So  doth  it  often  fall  out  when  a  fair  and  high-born  Queen 
or  Princess  or  great  lady  doth  set  her  to  govern  a  State, 
that  every  man  doth  love  to  serve  her,  and  to  honour  and 
pay  respect  to  her,  as  well  for  the  good  happiness  of  being 
agreeable  to  her  and  high  in  her  favour,  as  to  the  end  he 
may  boast  him  of  governing  and  ruling  the  State  along 
with  her,  and  drawing  profit  therefrom.  I  could  allege 
many  examples,  but  I  had  liever  refrain. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  this  Comte  Thibaut  did  find  induce- 
ment in  the  fair  subject  I  have  named  to  write  excellent 
verses,  and  mayhap  to  pose  the  question  which  M.  Pas- 
quier  doth  cite  for  us.  To  this  latter  I  do  refer  the 
curious  reader,  and  do  say  naught  here  of  rhymes  good 
or  ill  ;  for  'twould  be  pure  waste  of  words  so  to  do.  'Twill 
be  enough  for  me  at  this  present  to  declare  what  I  think 
thereanent,  whether  of  mine  own  judgment  or  of  that  of 
other  more  experienced  lovers  than  I. 


1. 

OF    THE   SENSE    OF    TOUCH   IN    LOVE 


[OW  as  to  touch,  it  must  be  allowed  that  touch- 
ing is  very  delightsome,  for  that  the  perfection 
of  love  is  to  enjoy  the  delight  thereof,  and  the 
said  enjoyment  cannot  be  had  without  touch- 
ing. For  even  as  hunger  and  thirst  can  in  no  wise  be 
assuaged  or  appeased  except  by  eating  and  drinking,  so  too 
doth  not  love  pass  by  dint  either  of  seeing  or  hearing  only, 
but  by  touching,  kissing  and  the  practice  of  Venus'  rites. 
To  this  did  that  witty  coxcomb  Diogenes  the  Cynic  allude 
facetiously,  yet  somewhat  nastily,  when  he  said  he  only 

[215] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


^^v8^%»^i.^^t^&5*J!»gtj|i2SS(^^ 


wished  he  could  relieve  his  hunger  by  rubbing  his  belly, 
even  as  / rot t ant  la  verge  he  did  appease  the  paroxysm  of 
desire.  I  would  fain  have  put  this  in  plainer  words,  but 
'tis  a  thing  must  needs  be  passed  over  trippingly.  He 
was  something  like  that  lover  of  Lamia,  who  having  been 
too  extravagantly  fleeced  by  her  to  be  able  to  enjoy  her 
love  any  more,  could  not  or  would  not  consent  to  lose  the 
pleasure  of  her.  Wherefore  he  did  devise  this  plan:  he 
would  think  of  her,  and  so  thinking  corrupt  himself,  and 
in  this  fashion  enjoy  her  in  imagination.  But  she  hear- 
ing of  this,  did  summon  him  before  the  Judge  to  render  her 
satisfaction  and  payment  for  his  enjoyment.  Whereupon 
the  Judge  did  order  that  he  should  but  show  her  the 
money,  whose  sound  and  tinkle  would  be  payment  enough, 
and  she  would  so  enjoy  the  gold  in  imagination  just  as 
the  other  in  dreams  and  fancy  had  had  the  gratification 
of  his  desire. 

True,  many  other  sorts  of  love  may  be  alleged  against 
what  I  say,  the  which  the  old  philosophers  do  feign;  but 
for  these  I  do  refer  me  to  these  same  philosophers  and  the 
like  subtle  persons  who  will  fain  be  discussing  such  points. 
In  any  case  forasmuch  as  the  fruit  of  mere  earthly  love 
is  no  other  thing  but  enjoyment  thereof,  it  must  needs 
be  deemed  to  be  rightly  attained  only  by  dint  of  touching 
and  kissing.  So  likewise  have  many  held  this  pleasure 
to  be  but  thin  and  poor,  apart  from  seeing  and  speaking ; 
whereof  we  have  a  good  example  in  the  Cent  Nouvelles 
of  the  Queen  of  Navarre.  An  honourable  gentleman, 
having  several  separate  times  enjoyed  the  favours  of  a 
certain  honourable  lady,  at  night  time  and  disguised  with 
a  small  hand-mask,  (for  regular  masks  as  now  used  were 
not  yet  employed),  in  a  dark,  ill-lighted  gallery  or  pas- 

[216] 


iVSvlfritftoYiMMtytfrtfrSflfr^^ 


wtsiS'ys'ygy^^^vsi^^ 


sage,  albeit  he  was  right  well  assured  by  the  sense  of 
touch  there  was  nothing  here  but  what  was  good,  tasty 
and  exquisite,  yet  was  not  content,  but  was  fain  to  know 
with  whom  he  had  to  do.  Wherefore  one  day  as  he  was 
a-kissing  her  and  did  hold  her  in  his  arms,  he  did  make 
a  mark  with  chalk  on  the  back  of  her  gown,  which  was  of 
black  velvet;  and  then  in  the  evening  after  supper,  (for 
their  assignations  were  at  a  certain  fixed  hour),  as  the 
ladies  were  coming  into  the  ball-room,  he  did  place  him- 
self behind  the  door.  Thus  noting  them  attentively  as 
they  passed  in,  he  saw  his  own  fair  one  enter  with  the 
chalk  mark  on  her  shoulder ;  and  lo !  it  was  such  an  one  as 
he  would  never  have  dreamed  of,  for  in  mien  and  face  and 
words  she  might  have  been  taken  for  the  very  Wisdom 
of  Solomon,  and  by  that  name  the  Queen  was  wont  to 
describe  her. 

Who  then  was  thunderstruck?  Who  but  the  gentleman, 
by  reason  of  his  great  good  fortune,  thus  loved  of  a 
woman  which  he  had  deemed  least  like  so  to  yield  of  all  the 
ladies  of  the  Court  ?  True  it  is  he  was  fain  to  go  further, 
and  not  stop  at  this ;  for  he  did  much  desire  to  discover  all, 
and  know  wherefore  she  was  so  set  on  hiding  herself  from 
him,  and  would  lief  have  herself  thus  served  under  cover 
and  by  stealth.  But  she,  crafty  and  wily  as  she  was,  did 
deny  and  re-deny  everything,  to  the  renunciation  of  her 
share  in  Paradise  and  the  damnation  of  her  immortal 
soul, — as  is  the  way  of  women,  when  we  will  throw  in  their 
faces  love  secrets  they  had  rather  not  have  known,  albeit 
we  be  certain  of  the  fact,  and  they  be  otherwise  most 
truthtelling. 

She  grew  angry  at  his  persistence ;  and  in  this  way  did 
the  gentleman  lose  his  good  fortune.  For  good  it  was  of 

[217] 


Bfff|gWffWfflggBm?Wg^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


a  surety,  seeing  the  lady  was  a  great  lady  and  well  worth 
winning.  Moreover  as  she  was  for  playing  the  sugared, 
chaste,  demure  prude,  herein  he  might  well  have  found 
double  pleasure,  —  part  for  the  sensual  enjoyment  of  so 
sweet,  good  and  delicate  a  morsel,  part  that  of  gazing  at 
her  oft  times  in  company,  with  her  demure,  coy  mien,  her 
cold  and  modest  look  and  her  conversation  all  chaste, 
strict  and  precise,  thinking  the  while  in  his  own  mind  of 
her  wanton  ways,  her  gay  abandonment  and  naughtiness 
whenas  they  two  were  alone  together. 

Thus  we  see  the  said  gentleman  was  much  at  fault  to 
have  asked  her  any  questions.  Rather  should  he  have 
steadily  pursued  his  pleasure  and  eaten  his  meat  in  quiet, 
just  as  tasty  without  candle  at  all  as  if  illuminated  by 
all  the  lights  of  a  festal  chamber.  Still  he  had  a  right 
to  know  who  she  was  !  and  in  a  way  his  inquisitiveness  was 
praiseworthy,  seeing,  as  the  Tale  doth  declare,  he  was 
afeared  he  had  to  do  with  some  kind  of  demon.  For 
devils  of  the  sort  love  to  change  shape  and  take  the  form  of 
women  for  to  have  intercourse  with  men,  and  do  so  deceive 
them  sore.  However,  as  I  have  heard  sundry  skilled  in 
magic  arts  declare,  such  do  find  it  more  easy  to  take  on 
the  shape  and  countenance  of  a  woman  than  to  imitate 
her  speech. 

And  this  is  why  the  said  gentleman  was  right  in  wishing 
to  see  and  know  with  whom  he  had  to  do  ;  and  by  what  he 
said  himself,  'twas  her  refraining  altogether  from  speech 
that  did  cause  him  more  apprehension  than  what  he  saw, 
and  did  set  him  on  thinking  of  the  Devil.  And  herein  he 
but  showed  a  proper  fear  of  God. 

But  surely,  after  having  discovered  all  the  truth,  he 
should  have  said  never  a  word.  But,  nay  !  another  will  say 

[218] 


BHBfflafflafflfflB^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

SSSMlMlMlMiM^ 

to  this,  friendship  and  love  be  not  perfect  but  when  openly 
declared  of  heart  and  mouth ;  and  for  this  cause  the  gentle- 
man would  fain  have  told  her  his  passion.  Anyhow  he  did 
gain  naught  thereby;  but  rather  lost  all.  Moreover  by 
any  who  had  known  the  real  honour  of  this  gentleman,  he 
will  be  excused,  for  he  was  in  no  wise  so  cold  or  so  discreet 
as  naturally  to  play  this  game  and  display  such  overcau- 
tion ;  and  by  what  I  have  heard  my  mother  say,  which  was 
in  the  service  of  the  Queen  of  Navarre,  and  did  know  sun- 
dry secrets  concerning  the  Nouvelles,  and  was  one  of  the 
devisers  of  this  work,  the  hero  of  the  Tale  was  my  own 
uncle,  the  late  M.  de  la  Chastaigneraie,  a  man  of  a  rough, 
ready  and  somewhat  fickle  disposition. 

The  Tale  is  so  disguised  however  as  to  carefully  hide 
who  it  was ;  for  in  reality  the  said  mine  Uncle  was  never 
in  the  service  of  the  great  Princess,  the  mistress  of  the 
lady  in  question,  though  he  was  in  that  of  the  King,  her 
brother.  And  so  he  did  continue,  for  he  was  much  loved 
both  of  the  King  and  the  Princess.  As  for  the  lady,  I  will 
by  no  means  tell  her  name ;  but  she  was  a  widow  and  lady 
in  waiting  to  a  very  great  Princess,  and  one  that  was 
better  at  showing  the  part  of  a  prude  than  of  a  Court 
lady. 

I  have  heard  tell  of  another  Court  lady  under  our  late 
Sovereigns,  and  one  I  do  know  by  acquaintance,  who  being 
enamoured  of  a  very  honourable  gentleman  of  the  Court, 
was  fain  to  imitate  the  way  of  love  adopted  by  the  afore- 
named lady.  But  every  time  she  did  return  from  her 
assignation  and  rendez-vous,  she  would  betake  her  to  her 
chamber  and  there  have  herself  examined  by  one  of  her 
maids  or  chamberwomen  on  all  sides,  to  make  sure  she 
was  not  marked ;  by  the  which  means  she  did  guard  her- 

[219] 


Yrti/UliAWft^TOSritrM^ 


^I.^^I}8*^!WJ^^1^1^^1^4!^ 


self  from  being  discovered  and  recognized.  Nor  was  she 
ever  marked  until  the  ninth  time  of  meeting,  when  the 
mark  was  at  once  discovered  and  noted  by  her  women. 
Wherefore,  for  dread  of  being  brought  to  shame  and  fall- 
ing into  disgrace,  she  did  break  it  all  off,  and  never  after 
returned  to  the  tryst. 

It  had  been  better  worth  her  while,  it  may  be  suggested, 
to  have  let  her  lover  make  these  marks  at  his  good  pleasure, 
and  then,  directly  they  were  made,  have  unmade  and 
rubbed  out  the  same.  In  this  way  she  would  have  had 
double  pleasure, — first  of  the  amorous  delight  enjoyed, 
and  secondly  that  of  making  mock  of  her  man,  who  was  so 
keen  to  discover  his  philosopher's  stone,  to  wit  to  find 
out  and  recognize  her,  yet  could  never  succeed. 

I  have  heard  tell  of  another  in  the  days  of  King 
Francis  in  connection  with  that  handsome  Squire,  Gruffy 
by  name,  which  was  a  squire  of  the  Stable  under  the  said 
King,  and  died  at  Naples  in  the  suite  of  M.  de  Lantric 
on  his  journey  thither.  The  dame  in  question  was  a  very 
great  lady  of  the  Court  and  did  fall  deep  in  love  with 
him;  for  indeed  he  was  exceedingly  handsome,  and  was 
commonly  known  by  no  other  title  than  the  handsome 
Gruffy.  I  have  seen  the  man's  portrait,  which  doth 
certainly  show  him  to  have  been  so. 

She  did  secretly  summon  one  day  her  valet  of  the 
chamber,  in  whom  she  had  trust,  but  yet  a  man  unknown 
to  most  by  sight,  into  her  closet.  This  man  she  did  charge 
to  go  tell  Gruffy,  the  messenger  being  handsomely  dressed 
to  seem  to  be  one  of  her  gentlemen,  that  a  very  honourable 
and  fair  lady  did  send  him  greeting,  and  that  she  was  so 
smit  with  love  for  him  she  did  greatly  desire  his  acquaint- 
ance,— more  than  that  of  any  man  at  court.  Yet  must  it 

[220] 


YA^ir/8viMtfr/i\ir/*Y.rfctiir*irAW^ 


y^^asgeiiij^t^i^tjs^jijsyi^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


be  under  this  condition  that  for  nothing  in  all  the  wide 
world  must  he  see  her  or  discover  who  she  was.  But  at 
the  hour  of  retiring,  and  when  every  member  of  the  Court 
should  be  abed,  he  would  come  for  him  and  meet  him  at  a 
certain  spot  he  would  indicate,  and  from  whence  he  would 
lead  him  to  the  chamber  of  his  lady.  However  there  was 
yet  a  further  condition,  to  wit  that  he  was  to  muffle  his 
eyes  in  a  fair  white  kerchief,  like  a  trumpet  led  into  an 
enemy's  city  at  a  truce,  to  the  end  he  might  not  see  nor 
recognize  the  place  and  chamber  wither  he  was  to  lead 
him,  and  that  he  was  to  hold  him  by  the  hands  all  the 
time  to  hinder  him  from  undoing  the  said  kerchief.  For 
such  were  the  conditions  his  mistress  had  ordered  him 
to  offer,  to  the  end  she  might  not  be  known  of  him  before 
a  certain  fixed  and  given  time  which  he  did  name  and  ap- 
point to  him.  All  which  being  so,  he  was  to  ponder  it  over 
and  decide  at  leisure  whether  he  would  agree  to  the  said 
conditions,  and  was  to  let  the  messenger  know  his  answer 
the  next  day.  For  he  said  he  would  come  for  him  then 
at  a  certain  place  he  did  name ;  but  above  all  he  must  be 
alone.  And  he  said  he  would  take  him  on  so  good  an 
errand  he  would  never  regret  having  gone  on  the  same. 

Truly  an  agreeable  assignation,  but  conjoined  with 
strange  conditions !  I  like  no  less  that  of  a  Spanish  lady, 
which  did  summon  one  to  a  meeting,  but  with  the  charge 
he  should  bring  with  him  thither  three  S.S.S.,  which  were 
to  signify  sabio,  solo,  segreto,  "prudent,  alone  and  secret." 
The  other  did  assure  her  he  would  come,  but  that  she 
should  adorn  and  furnish  herself  with  three  F.F.F.,  that 
is  she  must  not  be  fea,  flaca  nor  fria,  "ill-favoured,  slack 
nor  cold." 

To  return  to  Gruffy's  story, — the  go-between  now  left 

[221] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

Jiajfl&^lfea&ffifeaa^ 

him,  having  delivered  his  message.  Who  so  embarrassed 
and  full  of  thought  as  he?  Indeed,  he  had  much  cause 
for  thought,  whether  it  were  not  a  trick  played  him  by 
some  enemy  at  Court,  to  bring  him  into  trouble,  —  his 
death  mayhap  or  at  least  the  King's  displeasure.  He  pon- 
dered too  what  lady  it  could  be,  tall,  short  or  of  middle 
stature,  well  or  ill  favoured,  —  which  last  did  most  trouble 
him,  though  truly  all  cats  be  grey  at  night  time,  they  say, 
and  all  spots  alike  in  the  dark.  However,  after  confiding 
the  matter  to  one  of  his  intimate  comrades,  he  did  resolve 
to  try  the  risk,  deeming  that  to  win  the  love  of  a  great 
lady,  which  he  did  conclude  her  to  be,  he  must  suffer  no 
fear  or  apprehension  to  stay  him.  Wherefore  the  next 
night,  when  the  King,  the  Queen  and  her  ladies,  all  the 
gentlemen  and  ladies  of  the  Court,  were  retired  to  bed, 
he  made  no  fail  to  be  at  the  spot  the  messenger  had 
appointed  him.  The  latter  in  likewise  soon  came  for  him 
there  with  a  companion  to  help  him  keep  guard,  if  the 
other  were  followed  neither  by  page,  lackey  nor  gentle- 
man. The  instant  he  saw  him,  he  said  this  only,  "Come, 
Sir  !  the  lady  waits  you."  Then  in  a  moment  he  bound  his 
eyes,  and  did  conduct  him  through  dark,  narrow  places 
and  unknown  passages,  in  such  wise  that  the  other  told 
him  frankly  he  had  no  notion  whither  he  was  taking 
him.  Thus  did  he  introduce  him  to  the  lady's  chamber, 
which  was  so  dim  and  dark  he  could  see  or  distinguish 
naught  therein,  no  more  than  in  an  oven. 

Well,  there  he  did  find  the  lady  smelling  right  sweet  and 
richly  perfumed,  the  which  made  him  hope  for  some  dainty 
treat.  Whereupon  the  valet  did  straightway  make  him 
disrobe,  and  himself  aided  him;  and  next  led  him  by  the 
hand,  after  taking  off  the  kerchief  from  his  face,  to  the 

[222] 


jgwwfflgKigwfflg^i^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


lady's  bed,  who  was  awaiting  him  with  right  good  will. 
Then  did  he  lay  himself  down  beside  her,  and  began  to 
caress  her,  in  the  which  he  found  naught  but  what  was 
good  and  delicious,  as  well  her  skin  as  her  linen  and 
magnificent  bed,  which  he  did  explore  with  his  hands.  So 
with  right  merry  cheer  did  he  spend  his  night  with  the 
fair  lady.  I  have  heard  her  name,  but  will  not  repeat  it. 
In  a  word  he  was  well  and  thoroughly  satisfied  at  all 
points  ;  and  recognized  how  he  was  excellently  well  lodged 
for  the  night.  The  only  thing  that  troubled  him,  he  said, 
was  that  he  could  never  draw  one  single  word  out  of  her. 
She  took  good  heed  of  this,  seeing  he  was  used  oft  times 
to  speak  with  her  by  day,  as  with  other  Court  ladies,  and 
so  would  have  known  her  voice  directly.  Yet  at  the  same 
time,  of  frolickings  and  fondlings,  handlings  and  caresses, 
and  every  sort  of  love  shows  and  wantonness,  she  was  most 
lavish  ;  and  he  did  find  his  entertainment  much  to  his  mind. 

Next  morning  at  break  of  day  the  messenger  did  not 
fail  to  come  and  wake  him,  make  him  get  up,  and  dress  him, 
then  bind  eyes  as  before,  lead  him  back  to  the  spot  whence 
he  had  taken  him,  and  commend  him  to  God  till  his  next 
return,  which  he  promised  should  be  soon.  Nor  did  he  omit 
to  ask  him  if  he  had  lied  at  all,  and  if  he  were  not  glad  to 
have  trusted  him,  and  whether  he  thought  he  had  showed 
himself  a  good  quartermaster,  and  had  found  him  good 
harbourage. 

The  handsome  Gruffy,  after  thanking  him  an  hundred 
times,  bade  him  farewell,  saying  he  would  always  be  ready 
to  come  back  again  for  such  good  entertainment,  and 
would  be  very  willing  to  return  when  he  pleased.  This  did 
he,  and  the  merry  doings  continued  a  whole  month,  at  the 
end  of  which  time  it  behoved  Gruffy  to  depart  on  his 

[223] 


fe'wwwwwafr'ftifffflffws^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

iffil^miffl^iifiagii^ii^^ 

Naples  journey.  So  he  took  leave  of  his  mistress  and  bade 
her  adieu  with  much  regret,  yet  without  drawing  one  single 
word  from  her  lips,  but  only  sighs  and  the  tears  which 
he  did  note  to  flow  from  her  eyes.  The  end  was  he  did 
finally  leave  her  without  in  the  least  recognizing  her  or 
discovering  who  she  was. 

Since  then  'tis  said  this  lady  did  practice  the  same  way 
of  life  with  two  or  three  others  in  similar  fashion,  in  this 
manner  taking  her  enjoyment.  And  some  declared  she 
was  fain  to  adopt  this  crafty  device,  because  that  she  was 
very  niggardly,  and  in  this  wise  did  spare  her  substance, 
and  was  not  liable  to  make  gifts  to  her  lovers.  For  in 
truth  is  every  great  lady  bound  by  her  honour  to  give, 
be  it  much  or  little,  whether  money  or  rings  or  jewels 
or  it  may  be  richly  wrought  favours.  In  this  way  the 
gallant  dame  was  able  to  afford  her  person  disport,  yet 
spare  her  purse,  merely  by  never  revealing  who  she  was ; 
and  by  this  means  could  incur  no  reproof  in  relation  to 
either  of  her  purses,  whether  the  natural  or  the  artificial, 
as  she  did  never  let  her  identity  be  known.  A  sorry 
humour  truly  for  a  high-born  dame  to  indulge! 

Some  will  doubtless  find  her  method  good,  while  others 
will  blame  her,  and  others  again  deem  her  a  very  astute 
person.  Certain  folk  will  esteem  her  an  excellent  manager 
and  a  wise,  but  for  myself  I  do  refer  me  to  others  better 
qualified  to  form  a  good  judgement  thereon  than  I.  At 
any  rate  she  can  in  no  wise  incur  such  severe  censure  as 
that  notorious  Queen  which  did  dwell  in  the  Hotel  de  Nesle 
at  Paris.1  This  wicked  woman  did  keep  watch  on  the 
passers-by,  and  such  as  liked  her  for  their  looks  and 
pleased  her  best,  whatsoever  sort  of  folk  they  were,  she 
would  have  summoned  to  her  side.  Then  after  having 

[224] 


R7^ffl?7wsffi7^i^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

:$5?[M!^iiyiii^a^&^^ 

gotten  of  them  what  she  would,  she  did  have  them  cast 
down  from  the  Tower,  the  which  is  yet  standing,  into  the 
water  beneath,  and  so  drowned  them.2 

I  cannot  say  for  sure  if  this  be  a  true  tale.  At  any  rate 
the  common  folk,  at  least  the  most  of  them  at  Paris,  do 
declare  it  is.  And  so  familiar  is  the  tale,  that  if  one  but 
point  to  the  Tower,  and  ask  about  it,  they  will  of  their 
own  accord  recount  the  story. 

Well,  let  us  quit  these  unholy  loves,  which  be  nothing 
better  than  sheer  monstrosities.  The  better  part  of  our 
ladies  of  to-day  do  abhor  such,  as  they  are  surely  right 
to  do,  preferring  to  have  free  and  frank  intercourse  with 
their  lovers  and  not  to  deal  with  them  as  though  they  were 
of  stone  or  marble.  Rather,  having  well  and  carefully 
chosen  them,  they  know  well  how  to  be  bravely  and  gener- 
ously served  and  loved  of  them.  Then  when  they  have 
thoroughly  tried  their  fidelity  and  loyalty,  they  do  give 
themselves  up  to  an  ardent  love  with  them,  and  take  their 
pleasure  with  the  same  not  masked,  nor  silent,  nor  dumb, 
nor  yet  in  the  darkness  of  night  and  mystery.  Nay !  but 
in  the  free  and  open  light  of  day  they  do  suffer  them  to 
see,  touch,  taste  and  kiss  their  fair  bodies,  entertaining 
them  the  while  with  fine,  lecherous  discourse,  merry, 
naughty  words  and  wanton  conversation.  Yet  sometimes 
will  they  have  recourse  to  masks ;  for  there  be  ladies  which 
are  at  times  constrained  to  wear  them  when  a-doing  of  it, 
whether  it  be  on  account  of  sun-burn  they  do  so,  for  fear 
of  spoiling  their  complexion,  or  for  other  causes.  Or  they 
may  use  them  to  the  end  that,  if  they  do  get  too  hot  in  the 
work,  and  are  suddenly  surprised,  their  red  cheeks  may 
escape  note,  and  the  disorder  of  their  countenances.  I 

[225] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


have  known  such  cases.    But  the  mask  doth  hide  all,  and 
so  they  befool  the  world. 


2. 

OF    THE    POWER    OF    SPEECH    IN    LOVE 

HAVE  heard  many  fair  ladies  and  cavaliers 
which  have  practised  love  declare  how  that, 
but  for  sight  and  speech,  they  had  rather  be 
like  brute  beasts,  that  following  a  mere  natu- 
ral appetite  of  the  senses,  have  no  thought  of  love  or 
affection,  but  only  to  satisfy  their  sensual  rage  and 
animal  heat. 

Likewise  have  I  heard  many  lords  and  gallants  which 
have  lain  with  high-born  ladies  say,  that  they  have  ever 
found  these  an  hundred  times  more  lascivious  and  out- 
spoken in  words  than  common  women  and  the  like.  Herein 
do  they  show  much  art,  seeing  it  is  impossible  for  a  man, 
be  he  as  vigorous  as  he  may,  to  be  alway  hard  at  the  collar 
and  in  full  work.  So  when  the  lover  cometh  to  lie  still 
and  relax  his  efforts,  he  doth  find  it  so  pleasant  and  so 
appetizing  whenas  his  lady  doth  entertain  him  with 
naughty  tales  and  words  of  wit  and  wantonness,  that 
Venus,  no  matter  how  soundly  put  to  sleep  for  the  time 
being,  is  of  a  sudden  waked  up  again.  Nay !  more,  many 
ladies,  conversing  with  their  lovers  in  company,  whether 
in  the  apartments  of  Queens  and  Princesses  or  elsewhere, 
will  strangely  lure  them  on,  for  that  they  will  be  saying 
such  lascivious  and  enticing  words  to  them  that  both  men 
and  women  will  be  just  as  wanton  as  in  a  bed  together. 

[226] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

j^ia!taa^iayti&^B5Bi!Lgi^ 


Yet  all  the  while  we  that  be  onlookers  will  deem  their 
conversation  to  be  of  quite  other  matters. 

This  again  is  the  reason  why  Mark  Antony  did  so 
love  Cleopatra  and  preferred  her  before  his  own  wife 
Octavia,  who  was  an  hundred  times  more  beautiful  and 
lovable  than  the  Egyptian  Queen.  But  this  Cleopatra 
was  mistress  of  such  happy  phrases  and  such  witty  con- 
versation, with  such  wanton  ways  and  seductive  graces, 
that  Antony  did  forget  all  else  for  love  of  her. 

Plutarch  doth  assure  us,  speaking  of  sundry  quips  and 
tricks  of  tongue  she  was  used  to  make  such  pretty  play 
withal,  that  Mark  Antony,  when  he  would  fain  imitate 
her,  was  in  his  bearing  (albeit  he  was  only  too  anxious 
to  play  the  gallant  lover)  like  naught  so  much  as  a  com- 
mon soldier  or  rough  man-at-arms,  as  compared  with  her 
and  her  brilliant  ways  of  talk. 

Pliny  doth  relate  a  story  of  her  which  I  think  excellent, 
and  so  I  will  repeat  the  same  here  in  brief.  One  day, 
being  in  one  of  her  wildest  moods,  she  was  attired  most 
enticingly  and  to  great  advantage,  and  especially  did  wear 
on  her  head  a  garland  of  divers  blossoms  most  suitable  to 
provoke  wanton  imaginings.  Well,  as  they  sat  at  table, 
and  Mark  Antony  was  fain  to  drink,  she  did  amuse  him 
with  pleasant  discourse,  and  meanwhile  all  the  time  she 
spake,  she  kept  plucking  out  one  by  one  fair  flowers 
from  her  garland  (but  they  were  really  strewed  over  every 
one  with  poisonous  essences),  and  tossing  the  same  from 
time  to  time  into  the  cup  Antony  held  ready  to  drink 
from.  Presently  when  she  had  ended  her  discourse  and 
Mark  Antony  was  on  the  point  of  lifting  the  goblet 
to  his  lips  to  drink,  Cleopatra  doth  stay  him  suddenly 
with  her  hand,  and  having  stationed  some  slave  or  con- 

[227] 


IffiMflfflfiflgWWWg^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


demned  criminal  ready  to  hand,  she  did  call  this  fellow 
to  her  and  made  them  give  him  the  draught  Mark  Antony 
was  about  to  swallow.  On  drinking  this  he  fell  down  dead  ; 
and  she  turning  to  Antony,  said,  "And  if  I  did  not  love 
you  as  I  do,  I  should  e'en  now  have  been  rid  of  you; 
yea!  and  would  gladly  have  had  it  so,  only  that  I  see 
plainly  I  cannot  live  without  you."  These  words  and  this 
device  were  well  fitted  to  confirm  Mark  Antony  in  his 
passion,  and  to  make  him  even  more  submissive  before  his 
charmer's  feet. 

In  such  ways  did  her  cleverness  of  tongue  serve  Cleo- 
patra, whom  all  the  Historians  do  describe  as  having  been 
exceedingly  ready  of  speech.  Mark  Antony  was  used 
never  to  call  her  anything  but  "the  Queen,"  by  way  of 
greater  distinction.  So  he  did  write  to  Octavius  Caesar, 
previous  to  the  time  when  they  were  declared  open  enemies  : 
"What  hath  changed  you,"  he  writes,  "concerning  my  lov- 
ing the  Queen?  She  is  my  wife.  Is  it  but  now  I  have 
begun  the  connection?  You  fondle  Drusilla,  Tortale, 
Leontiphe  and  a  dozen  others;  what  reck  you  on  whom 
you  do  bestow  your  favour,  when  the  caprice  seizeth 
you?" 

In  this  letter  Mark  Antony  was  for  extolling  his  own 
constancy,  and  reproaching  the  other's  changeableness, 
for  loving  so  many  women  at  once,  while  himself  did  love 
only  the  Queen.  And  I  only  wonder  Octavius  did  not  love 
her  too  after  Antony's  death.  It  may  well  be  he  had  his 
pleasure  when  he  had  her  come  alone  to  his  chamber,  and 
he  there  beheld  her  beauty  and  heard  her  address  him  ;  or 
mayhap  he  found  her  not  so  fair  as  he  had  thought,  or 
scorned  her  for  some  other  reason,  and  did  wish  to  make 
his  triumph  of  her  at  Rome  and  show  her  in  his  public 

[228] 


B^ffifffi?fffl?TOl?rWg^Brg!^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

maisyiByfl}y«iy«feafe^^ 

procession.  But  this  indignity  she  did  forestall  by  her 
self-inflicted  death. 

There  can  be  no  doubt,  to  return  to  our  first  point, 
that  when  a  woman  is  fain  after  love,  or  is  once  well 
engaged  therein,  no  orator  in  all  the  world  can  talk  better 
than  she.  Consider  how  Sophonisba  hath  been  described 
to  us  by  Livy,  Appian  and  other  writers,  and  how  eloquent 
she  did  show  herself  in  Massinissa's  case,  when  she  did 
come  to  him  for  to  win  over  and  claim  his  love,  and  later 
again  when  it  behooved  to  swallowed  the  fatal  poison.  In 
short,  every  woman,  to  be  well  loved,  is  bound  to  possess 
good  powers  of  speech;  and  in  very  deed  there  be  few 
known  which  cannot  speak  well  and  have  not  words 
enough  to  move  heaven  and  earth,  yea!  though  this  were 
fast  frozen  in  mid  winter. 

Above  all  must  they  have  this  gift  which  devote  them- 
selves to  love.  If  they  can  say  naught,  why !  they  be  so 
savourless,  the  morsel  they  give  us  hath  neither  taste  nor 
flavour.  Now  when  M.  du  Bellay,  speaking  of  his  mistress 
and  declaring  her  ways,  in  the  words, 

De  la  vertu  je  S9avois  deviser, 

Et  je  S9avois  tellement  eguiser, 

Que  rien  qu'honneur  ne  sortait  de  ma  bouche ; 

Sage  au  parler  et  folastre  a  la  couche. 

(Of  virtue  I  knew  how  to  discourse,  and  hold  such  fair  lan- 
guage, naught  but  honour  did  issue  from  my  mouth ;  modest  in 
speech,  and  wanton  a-bed.) 

doth  describe  her  as  "modest  in  speech,  and  wanton 
a-bed,"  1  this  means  of  course  in  speaking  before  company 
and  in  general  converse.  Yet  when  that  she  is  alone  and 

[229] 


B?W^»rai^it3iiiailia^gSili^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

in  private  with  her  lover,  every  gallant  dame  is  ready 
enough  to  be  free  of  her  speech  and  to  say  what  she 
chooseth,  the  better  to  provoke  his  passion. 

I  have  heard  tales  told  by  sundry  that  have  enjoyed  fair 
and  high-born  ladies,  or  that  have  been  curious  to  listen 
to  such  talking  with  others  a-bed,  how  that  these  were 
every  whit  as  free  and  bold  in  their  discourse  as  any 
courtesans  they  had  ever  known.  And  this  is  a  noteworthy 
fact  that,  accustomed  as  they  were  so  to  entertain  their 
husbands  or  lovers  with  lecherous  and  wanton  words, 
phrases  and  discourse,  and  even  freely  to  name  the  most 
secret  parts  of  their  bodies,  and  this  without  any  dis- 
guisement,  yet  when  the  same  ladies  be  set  to  polite  con- 
verse, they  do  never  go  astray  and  not  one  of  all  these 
naughty  words  doth  ever  issue  from  their  lips.  Well,  we 
can  only  say  they  are  right  well  skilled  in  self-command 
and  the  art  of  dissimulation;  for  no  other  thing  is  there 
which  is  so  frisky  and  tricksome  as  a  lady's  tongue  or  an 
harlot's. 

So  I  once  knew  a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady  of  the 
great  world,  who  one  day  discoursing  with  an  honourable 
gentleman  of  the  Court  concerning  military  events  in 
the  civil  wars  of  the  time,  did  say  to  him:  "I  have  heard 
say  the  King  hath  had  every  spot  in  all  that  countryside 
broke  down."  Now  when  she  did  say  "every  spot,  what 
she  meant  to  say  was  every  bridge"  (pont)  ;  but,  being 
just  come  from  her  husband,  or  mayhap  thinking  of  her 
lover,  she  still  had  the  other  word  fresh  in  her  mouth. 
And  this  same  slip  of  the  tongue  did  mightily  stir  up  the 
gentleman  for  her.  Another  lady  I  knew,  talking  with 
a  certain  great  lady  and  one  better  born  than  herself, 
and  praising  and  extolling  her  beauty,  did  presently  say 

[230] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


I8iS8ifiltt8^^^!i54^!^!^ 


thus  to  her,  "Nay !  Madam,  what  I  tell  you,  is  not  to  f utter 
you,"  meaning  to  say,  flatter  you,  and  did  afterward 
correct  herself.  The  fact  is  her  mind  was  full  of  futtering 
and  such  like. 

In  short,  lively  speech  hath  a  very  great  efficacy  in  the 
game  of  love;  and  where  it  is  lacking,  the  pleasure  is 
incomplete.  So  in  very  truth  a  fair  body,  if  it  have  not 
a  fair  mind  to  match,  is  more  like  a  mere  image  of  itself 
or  idol  than  a  true  human  body.  However  fair  it  may  be, 
it  must  needs  be  seconded  by  a  fair  mind  likewise,  if  it 
is  to  be  really  loved;  and  if  this  be  not  so  by  nature,  it 
must  be  so  fashioned  by  art. 

The  courtesans  of  Rome  do  make  great  mock  of  the 
gentlewomen  of  the  same  city,  which  are  not  trained  in 
witty  speech  like  themselves,  and  do  say  of  them  that  chia- 
vano  come  cani,  ma  che  sono  quiete  della  bocca  come 
sassi,  that  is,  "they  yield  them  like  bitches,  but  are  dumb 
of  mouth  like  sticks  and  stones." 

And  this  is  why  I  have  known  many  honourable  gentle- 
men which  have  declined  the  acquaintance  of  ladies,  and 
very  fair  ladies  I  tell  you,  because  that  they  were  simple- 
tons, without  soul,  wit  or  conversation,  and  have  quitted 
them  for  good  and  all,  saying  they  would  as  soon  have  to 
do  with  a  beautiful  statue  of  fair  white  marble,  like  that 
Athenian  youth  which  did  love  a  statue,  and  went  so  far 
as  to  take  his  pleasure  thereof.  And  for  the  same  reason 
strangers  that  do  travel  in  foreign  lands  do  seldom  care 
to  love  foreign  women,  nor  are  at  all  apt  to  take  a  fancy 
to  them.  For  they  understand  not  what  they  say,  and 
their  words  in  no  wise  touch  their  hearts.  I  speak  of 
course  of  such  as  know  not  their  language.  And  if  they 
do  go  with  them,  'tis  but  to  satisfy  nature,  and  quench  the 

[231] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

m^iMi&fliMi^ii^ii&ai^^ 

mere  brute  flame  of  lust,  and  then  andar  in  barca  ("away 
to  the  ship"),  as  said  an  Italian  who  had  come  ashore  one 
day  at  Marseilles  on  his  way  to  Spain,  and  enquired  a 
place  where  women  were  to  be  found.  He  was  directed  to 
a  spot  where  a  wedding  feast  was  being  held.  So  when  a 
lady  came  up  to  accost  him  and  engage  him  in  conversa- 
tion, he  said  to  her  only,  V.  S.  mi  perdona,  non  voglio  par- 
lare,  voglio  solamente  chiavare,  e  poi  me  n'andar  in  barca, 
— "Pardon  me,  Madam ;  I  want  not  to  talk,  but  only  to  do, 
and  then  away  again  to  the  ship." 

A  Frenchman  doth  find  no  great  pleasure  with  a  Ger- 
man, Swiss,  Flemish,  English,  Scotch,  Slavonian,  or  other 
foreign  woman,  albeit  she  should  chatter  with  the  best,  if 
he  understand  her  not.  But  he  taketh  great  delight  with 
his  French  mistress,  or  with  an  Italian  or  Spanish  woman, 
for  generally  speaking  the  most  part  of  Frenchmen  of  our 
day,  at  any  rate  such  as  have  seen  the  world  a  little,  can 
speak  or  understand  these  languages.  And  God  wot,  it 
matters  not  if  he  be  skilled  and  meet  for  love,  for  whoso- 
ever shall  have  to  do  with  a  Frenchwoman,  an  Italian, 
Spanish  or  Greek,  and  she  be  quick  of  tongue,  he  must 
needs  frankly  own  he  is  fairly  catched  and  conquered. 

In  former  times  this  our  French  tongue  was  not  so 
excellent  and  rich  a  language  as  nowadays  it  is ;  whereas 
for  many  a  long  year  the  Italian,  Spanish  and  Greek 
have  been  so.  And  I  will  freely  own  I  have  scarce  ever  seen 
a  lady  of  these  nations,  if  she  have  but  practised  a  little 
the  profession  of  love,  but  hath  a  very  good  gift  of  speech. 
I  do  refer  me  to  them  that  have  dealt  with  such  women. 
Certain  it  is,  a  fair  lady,  if  endowed  with  fair  and  witty 
words,  doth  afford  double  contentment. 

[232] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


3. 

OF    THE   POWER   OF    SIGHT  IN   LOVE 


speak  next  of  the  power  of  sight.  Without  a 
doubt,  seeing  the  eyes  be  the  first  part  to  join 
combat  in  love,  it  must  be  allowed  that  these 
do  give  a  very  great  contentment,  whenas  they 
are  the  means  to  our  beholding  something  fair  and  rare  in 
beauty.  And  by  my  faith!  what  thing  is  there  in  all  the 
world  a  man  may  see  fairer  than  a  fair  woman,  whether 
clothed  and  handsomely  tricked  out,  or  naked?  If 
clothed,  then  'tis  only  the  face  you  see  naked;  but  even 
so,  when  a  fair  body,  of  a  beauteous  shape,  with  fine  car- 
riage and  graceful  port,  stately  look  and  proud  mien, 
is  presented  to  our  view  in  all  its  charms,  what  fairer  and 
more  delightsome  display  can  there  be  in  all  the  world? 
Then  again,  when  you  come  to  enjoy  a  fair  lady,  thus 
fully  dressed  and  magnificently  attired,  the  desire  and 
enjoyment  of  her  are  doubled,  albeit  a  man  doth  see  only 
the  face,  while  all  the  other  parts  of  the  body  are  hid. 
For  indeed  'tis  a  hard  matter  to  enjoy  a  great  lady  ac- 
cording to  all  the  conveniences  one  might  desire,  unless  it 
were  in  a  chamber  apart  at  full  leisure  and  in  a  secret 
place,  to  do  what  one  best  liketh.  So  spied  upon  is  such 
an  one  of  all  observers! 

And  this  is  why  a  certain  great  lady  I  have  heard  speak 
of,  if  ever  she  did  meet  her  lover  conveniently,  and  out  of 
sight  of  other  folk  and  fear  of  surprise,  would  always 
seize  the  occasion  at  once,  to  content  her  wishes  as 

[233] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

^ma&^ji&aiw.^sy£ft^^ 

promptly  and  shortly  as  ever  she  could.  And  indeed  she 
did  say  to  him  one  day,  "They  were  fools,  those  good 
ladies  of  former  days,  which  being  fain  of  over  refinement 
in  their  love  pleasure,  would  shut  themselves  up  in  their 
closets  or  other  privy  places,  and  there  would  so  draw 
out  their  sports  and  pastimes  that  presently  they  would  be 
discovered  and  their  shame  made  public.  Nowadays  must 
we  seize  opportunity  whenever  it  cometh,  with  the  briefest 
delay  possible,  like  a  city  no  sooner  assailed  than  invested 
and  straightway  captured.  And  in  this  wise  we  do  best 
avoid  the  chance  of  scandal." 

And  I  ween  the  lady  was  quite  right;  for  such  men  as 
have  practised  love,  have  ever  held  this  a  sound  maxim 
that  there  is  naught  to  be  compared  with  a  woman  in 
her  clothes.  Again  when  you  reflect  how  a  man  doth 
brave,  rumple,  squeeze  and  make  light  of  his  lady's 
finery,  and  how  he  doth  work  ruin  and  loss  to  the  grand 
cloth  of  gold  and  web  of  silver,  to  tinsel  and  silken  stuffs, 
pearls  and  precious  stones,  'tis  plain  how  his  ardour  and 
satisfaction  be  increased  manifold,  —  far  more  than  with 
some  simple  shepherdess  or  other  woman  of  like  quality, 
be  she  as  fair  as  she  may. 

And  why  of  yore  was  Venus  found  so  fair  and  so 
desirable,  if  not  that  with  all  her  beauty  she  was  alway 
gracefully  attired  likewise,  and  generally  scented,  that 
she  did  ever  smell  sweet  an  hundred  paces  away?  For  it 
hath  ever  been  held  of  all  how  that  perfumes  be  a  great 
incitement  to  love. 

This  is  the  reason  why  the  Empresses  and  great  dames 
of  Rome  did  make  much  usage  of  these  perfumes,  as  do 
likewise  our  great  ladies  of  France,  —  and  above  all  those 
of  Spain  and  Italy,  which  from  the  oldest  times  have  been 

[234] 


IgfflgSBRfflS^ig^ffWgB^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


!)!-}8*!JiSg^^!^l^t^«lt^ 


more  curious  and  more  exquisite  in  luxury  than  French- 
women, as  well  in  perfumes  as  in  costumes  and  magnificent 
attire,  whereof  the  fair  ones  of  France  have  since  bor- 
rowed the  patterns  and  copied  the  dainty  workmanship. 
Moreover  the  others,  Italian  and  Spanish,  had  learned  the 
same  from  old  models  and  ancient  statues  of  Roman  ladies, 
the  which  are  to  be  seen  among  sundry  other  antiquities 
yet  extant  in  Spain  and  Italy ;  the  which,  if  any  man  will 
regard  them  carefully,  will  be  found  very  perfect  in  mode 
of  hair-dressing  and  fashion  of  robes,  and  very  meet  to 
incite  love.  On  the  contrary,  at  this  present  day  our 
ladies  of  France  do  surpass  all  others.  'Tis  to  the  Queen 
of  Navarre  *  they  do  owe  thanks  for  this  great  improve- 
ment. 

Wherefore  is  it  good  and  desirable  to  have  to  do  with 
suchlike  fair  ladies  so  well  appointed,  so  richly  tricked  out 
and  in  such  stately  wise.  So  have  I  heard  many  courtiers, 
my  comrades,  declare,  as  we  did  discourse  together  on 
these  matters, 

De  sorte  que  j'ai  out  dire  a  aucuns  courtisans,  mes  com- 
pagnons,  ainsi  que  nous  decisions  ensemble,  qu'ils  les  aimai- 
ent  mieux  ainsi,  que  desacoutrees  et  couchees  neus  entre 
deux  linceuls,  et  dans  un  lit  le  plus  enrichi  de  broderie 
que  Von  sut  faire. 

D'autres  disaient  qu'il  n't/  avait  que  le  naturel,  sans 
aucun  fard  ni  artifice,  comme  un  grand  prince  que  je 
sais,  lequel  pourtant  faisait  coucher  ses  courtisanes  ou 
dames  dans  des  draps  de  taffetas  noir  bien  tendus,  toutes 
nues,  afin  que  leur  blancheur  et  delicatesse  de  chair  parut 
bien  mieux  parmi  ce  noir  et  donndt  plus  d'ebat.2 

There  can  be  no  real  doubt  the  fairest  sight  of  any  in 
the  whole  world  would  be  that  of  a  beautiful  woman,  all 

[235] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     L  A  D  I      s 

a&ffljya&ma^tyi^^ 

complete  and  perfect  in  her  loveliness  ;  but  such  an  one 
is  ill  to  find.  Thus  do  we  find  it  recorded  of  Zeuxis,  the 
famous  painter,  how  that  being  asked  by  sundry  honour- 
able ladies  and  damsels  of  his  acquaintance  to  make  them 
a  portrait  of  the  fair  Helen  of  Troy  and  depict  her  to 
them  as  beautiful  as  folk  say  she  was,  he  was  loath  to 
refuse  their  prayer.  But,  before  painting  the  portrait, 
he  did  gaze  at  them  all  and  each  steadfastly,  and  choosing 
from  one  or  the  other  whatever  he  did  find  in  each  severally 
most  beautiful,  he  did  make  out  the  portrait  of  these  frag- 
ments brought  together  and  combined,  and  by  this  means 
did  portray  Helen  so  beautiful  no  exception  could  be  taken 
to  any  feature.  This  portrait  did  stir  the  admiration  of 
all,  but  above  all  of  them  which  had  by  their  several  beau- 
ties and  separate  features  helped  to  create  the  same  no 
less  thans  Zeuxis  himself  had  with  his  brush.  Now  this  was 
as  good  as  saying  that  in  one  Helen  'twas  impossible  to 
find  all  perfections  of  beauty  combined,  albeit  she  may 
have  been  most  exceeding  fair  above  all  women. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  the  Spaniard  saith  that  to  make  a 
woman  all  perfect,  complete  and  absolute  in  loveliness, 
she  must  needs  have  thirty  several  beauties,8  the  which  a 
Spanish  lady  did  once  enumerate  to  me  at  Toledo,  a  city 
where  be  very  fair  and  charming  women,  and  well  in- 
structed to  boot.  The  thirty  then  are  as  f  olloweth  : 

(Translated,  for  the  reader's  better  comprehension:) 
Three  things  white:  skin,  teeth  and  hands. 
Three  black:  eyes,  brows  and  lids. 
Three  red:  lips,  cheeks  and  nails. 
Three  long:  body,  hair  and  hands. 
Three  short:  teeth,  ears  and  feet. 

[236] 


fiFtftffiM'SBFSSFS^^ 

LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 

ajyaiysMi^ffl^feasag^^ 

Three  wide:  chest  or  bosom,  forehead  and  space  be- 
twixt the  eyes. 

Three  narrow:  mouth  (upper  and  lower),  girth  or 
waist,  and  ankle. 

Three  big  and  thick:  arm,  thigh  and  calf. 

Three  long  and  fine:  fingers,  hair  and  lips. 

Three  small  and  delicate:  breasts,  nose  and  head. 

Making  thirty  in  all. 

'Tis  not  inconceivable  nor  impossible  but  that  all  these 
beauties  should  be  united  all  together  in  one  and  the  same 
fair  lady ;  but  in  that  case  she  must  needs  be  framed  in  the 
mould  of  absolute  perfection.  For  indeed  to  see  them  all 
so  combined,  without  there  being  a  single  one  to  carp  at 
and  find  at  fault  is  scarce  possible.  I  do  refer  me  to  such 
as  have  seen  beautiful  women,  or  will  see  such  anon,  and 
who  would  fain  be  heedful  in  noting  the  same  and  apprais- 
ing them,  what  they  shall  say  of  them.  But  though  they 
be  not  complete  and  perfectly  beautiful  in  all  these  points, 
yet  will  a  beautiful  woman  alway  be  beautiful,  an  if  she 
have  but  the  half,  and  those  the  chief  ones,  of  the  parts 
and  features  I  have  named.  For  truly  I  have  seen  many 
which  had  more  than  the  half,  and  were  exceeding  fair 
and  very  lovable.  Just  as  a  wood  seemeth  ever  beautiful 
in  Spring-tide,  even  though  it  be  not  filled  with  all  the  little 
pretty  shrubs  one  might  wish  for.  Yet  are  there  plenty 
of  fine,  tall,  spreading  trees,  which  by  their  abundance 
may  very  well  hide  the  lack  of  other  smaller  vegetation. 

M.  de  Ronsard  must  pardon  me,  if  he  will.  Never  did 
his  mistress,  whom  he  hath  represented  as  so  very  beauti- 
ful, really  attain  such  perfection,  nor  any  other  lady  he 
ever  saw  in  his  day  or  did  describe.  He  calleth  her  his 

[237] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


fair  Cassandra,  and  sure  I  am  she  was  fair,  but  he  hath 
disguised  her  under  a  fictitious  name.  And  the  same  is 
equally  true  of  his  Marie,  who  never  bore  other  name  but 
that,  as  it  is  of  the  first  mentioned.  Still  it  is  allowed  to 
poets  and  painters  to  say  and  do  what  pleaseth  them,  — 
for  instance  you  will  find  in  the  Orlando  Furioso  won- 
drous fair  beauties  portrayed  by  Ariosto,  those  of  Alcina 
and  of  many  another  fair  one. 

All  this  is  well  enough;  but  as  I  have  heard  a  great 
personage  of  my  acquaintance  say,  never  could  plain 
nature  make  so  fair  and  perfect  a  woman  as  the  keen 
and  subtile  imagination  of  some  eloquent  poet  might 
featly  describe,  or  the  pencil  and  brush  of  some  inspired 
painter  represent.  No  matter  !  a  man's  eyes  are  ever  satis- 
fied to  see  a  beautiful  woman  of  fair,  clear-complexioned 
and  well-featured  face.  Yea!  and  though  it  be  somewhat 
brown  of  hue,  'tis  all  one;  the  brunette  is  as  good  as  the 
blonde  many  a  time,  as  the  Spanish  girl  hath  it,  Aunqite 
to  sia  morisca,  no  soy  de  menos  preciar,  —  "Brown  though 
I  be,  I  am  not  to  be  scorned  for  that."  So  the  fair  Marfisa 
era  brunetta  alquanto  —  "was  something  brown  of  face." 
Still  must  not  the  brown  overset  the  white  too  much! 
Again,  a  beautiful  countenance  must  be  borne  by  a  body 
fashioned  and  built  to  correspond.  This  doth  hold  good 
of  little  as  well  as  big,  but  tall  stature  will  ever  take  first 
place. 

Well,  as  to  seeking  out  suchlike  exquisite  points  of 
beauty  as  I  have  just  spoke  of,  and  as  poets  have  of  old 
depicted,  this  we  may  very  well  dispense  with,  and  find 
pleasure  enough  in  our  common  and  everyday  beauties. 
Not  that  I  would  say  common  in  any  ill  sense,  for  verily  we 
have  some  so  rare  that,  by  my  faith!  they  be  better  far 

[238] 


;r«w«Yitow»w«wiMr^ir^ 


Ittmv%t4|^|jgm|t|^|,j«l^^ 


than  all  those  which  your  fantastic  poets,  and  whimsical 
painters,  and  lyrical  extollers  of  female  charms  could 
ever  delineate. 

Alas !  the  worst  of  it  is  this.  Whenas  we  do  see  suchlike 
fair  beauties  and  gracious  countenances,  we  do  admire  and 
long  for  the  fair  bodies  to  match,  for  the  love  of  the  pretty 
faces.  But  lo !  in  some  cases,  when  these  come  to  be  re- 
vealed and  brought  to  light,  we  do  lose  all  appetite 
therefor.  They  be  so  ugly,  spoiled,  blotched,  disfigured 
and  hideous,  they  do  give  the  lie  direct  to  the  face.  This 
is  one  of  the  ways  we  men  are  oft  sore  taken  in. 

Hereof  we  have  a  good  example  in  a  certain  gentleman 
of  the  Island  of  Majorca,  by  name  Raymond  Lulle,4  of  a 
very  good,  wealthy  and  ancient  family.  This  nobleman 
by  reason  of  his  high  birth,  his  valour  and  merit,  was 
appointed  in  the  prime  of  his  years  to  the  governorship 
of  the  said  island.  While  in  this  office,  as  will  oft  happen 
to  Governors  of  provinces  and  cities,  he  did  grow  enam- 
oured of  a  beautiful  lady  of  the  island,  one  of  the  most 
accomplished,  beautiful  and  ready-witted  women  of  those 
parts.  Long  and  eagerly  did  he  court  her ;  and  at  length, 
seeing  he  was  ever  demanding  the  reward  of  his  exertions, 
the  lady  after  refusing  as  long  as  ever  she  could,  did  one 
day  give  him  an  assignation.  This  he  did  not  fail  to  keep, 
nor  did  she ;  but  presently  appeared  thereat,  more  beauti- 
ful than  ever  and  more  richly  apparelled.  Then  just  as 
he  thought  the  gates  of  Paradise  were  opening  for  him, 
lo!  she  stepped  forward  and  did  show  him  her  breast 
and  bosom  all  covered  over  with  a  dozen  plasters,  and 
tearing  these  off  one  after  other  and  angrily  tossing 
them  to  the  ground,  did  exhibit  a  horrid  cancer  to  him. 
So  with  tears  in  her  eyes,  she  did  rehearse  all  her  wretch- 

[239] 


S?WWffl?ffflffWfflgWffl?rffli^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

HMiRia&mai^ii&maiMis^^ 

edness  and  her  affection  to  him,  and  asked  him, — was  there 
then  such  mighty  cause  why  he  should  be  so  much  enam- 
oured of  her,  making  him  so  sad  and  dismal  a  discourse, 
that  he  did  presently  leave  her,  all  overcome  with  ruth 
for  the  grief  of  this  fair  lady.  Then  later,  after  making 
supplication  to  God  for  her  restoration  to  health,  he  did 
give  up  his  office,  and  turned  hermit. 

Afterward,  on  returning  from  the  Holy  Wars,  to  the 
which  he  had  vowed  himself,  he  went  to  study  at  Paris 
under  Arnaldus  de  Villanova,  a  learned  philosopher ;  then 
after  finishing  his  course  there,  he  did  withdraw  into 
England,  where  the  King  of  that  day  did  welcome  him 
with  all  the  good  will  in  the  world  for  the  sake  of  his  deep 
learning,  and  seeing  he  did  transmute  sundry  ingots  and 
bars  of  iron,  copper  and  tin,  scorning  the  common,  trivial 
fashion  of  transmuting  lead  and  iron  into  gold.  For  he 
knew  how  more  than  one  of  his  contemporaries  could  do 
this  much  as  well  as  he,  whereas  he  had  skill  to  do  both 
this  and  the  other  as  well.  But  he  was  fain  to  perform  a, 
feat  above  the  capacity  of  the  rest  of  alchemists. 

I  have  this  tale  from  a  gallant  gentleman,  which  told  me 
himself  had  it  of  the  jurisconsult  Oldrade.  This  author 
doth  speak  of  Raymond  Lulle  in  the  Commentary  he  made 
on  the  Code  De  Falsa  Moneta  ("On  False  Coining"). 
Likewise  he  had  it,  so  he  said,  on  the  authority  of  Carolus 
Bovillus,6  a  native  of  Picardy,  who  hath  writ  in  Latin  a 
life  of  this  same  Raymond  Lulle. 

This  is  how  he  did  rid  himself  of  his  craving  for  the  love 
of  this  fair  lady.  Other  men,  'tis  very  like,  had  done  dif- 
ferently, and  would  not  have  ceased  to  love,  but  shutting 
their  eyes  would  e'en  have  taken  what  they  did  desire 
of  her.  This  he  might  well  enough  have  done,  had  he  been 

[240] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

so  minded,  seeing  the  part  he  did  aim  at  was  in  no  wise 
touched  by  any  such  disease. 

I  knew  once  a  gentleman  and  a  widow  lady  of  the  great 
world,  which  were  not  so  scrupulous.  For  though  the 
lady  was  afflicted  with  a  great  and  foul  cancer  of  the 
breast,  yet  he  did  not  hesitate  to  wed  her,  nor  she  to  take 
him,  contrary  to  her  mother's  advice. 

I  knew  likewise  a  very  honourable  gentleman,  and  a 
great  friend  of  mine,  who  told  me  that  one  time  being  at 
Rome,  he  did  chance  to  love  a  certain  Spanish  lady,  one 
of  the  fairest  was  ever  seen  in  that  city.  Now  when  he  did 
go  with  her,  she  would  never  suffer  him  to  see  her,  nor 
ever  to  touch  her,  but  only  with  her  clothes  on.  For, 
if  ever  he  was  for  touching  her,  she  would  cry  out  in 
Spanish,  Ah!  no  me  tocays,  hareis  me  quosquillas,  that  is 
to  say,  "Nay !  do  not  touch  me ;  you  tickle  me."  But  one 
morning,  passing  by  her  house  and  finding  the  door  open, 
he  goes  boldly  in.  So  having  entered,  without  meeting 
either  domestic,  page  or  any  living  soul,  he  did  penetrate 
to  her  bedchamber,  and  there  found  her  so  fast  asleep 
he  had  leisure  to  behold  and  examine  her  at  his  ease,  for 
that  it  was  very  hot  weather.  And  he  declared  he  did 
never  see  aught  so  fair  as  was  her  body,  excepting  only 
that  he  did  discover  how  that,  while  the  one  thigh  was 
fair,  white,  smooth  and  well-shapen,  the  other  was  all 
dried  up,  withered  and  shrunken,  so  that  it  looked  no 
bigger  than  a  young  child's  arm.  Who  so  astonished  as 
my  friend?  Who  yet  did  not  much  compassionate  her, 
and  never  after  returned  to  visit  her,  nor  had  any  sub- 
sequent dealings  with  her. 

Many  ladies  there  be  which  are  not  indeed  thus  shrunken 
by  disease,  yet  are  so  thin,  scraggy,  withered  and  fleshless 

[241] 


8?WflffirfSftffi7Wtf5ai^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

afeflaytB^a^iii^a^!^ 

they  can  show  naught  but  the  mere  skeleton  oi  a  woman. 
Thus  did  I  know  one,  a  very  great  lady,  of  whom  the 
Bishop  of  Sisteron,6  one  of  the  witties  men  at  Court,  did 
by  way  of  jest  and  gibe  declare  that  it  were  better  to 
sleep  with  a  rat-trap  of  brass-wire  than  with  her.  In  a 
like  strain  did  another  gentleman  of  the  Court,  when  we 
were  rallying  him  on  having  dealings  with  a  certain  great 
lady,  reply,  "Nay!  but  you  are  all  wrong,  for  indeed  I 
do  love  good  flesh  too  well,  and  she  hath  naught  but 
bones."  Yet  to  look  at  these  two  ladies,  so  fair  and 
beauteous  of  face,  you  would  have  supposed  them  both 
most  fleshy  and  right  dainty  morsels. 

A  very  high-born  Prince  of  the  great  world  did  chance 
once  to  be  in  love  with  two  very  fair  ladies  at  one  and  the 
same  time,  as  doth  often  happen  to  the  great,  which  do 
love  change  and  variety.  The  one  was  exceeding  fair, 
the  other  a  brunette,  but  both  the  twain  right  handsome 
and  most  lovable  women.  So  one  day  as  he  came  away 
from  visiting  the  dark  one,  her  fair  rival  being  jealous 
did  say  to  him :  "Ah,  ha !  so  you've  been  flying  for  crow !" 
Whereto  the  Prince  did  make  answer,  something  angered 
and  ruffled  at  the  word:  "And  when  I  am  with  you,  my 
lady,  what  am  I  flying  for  then?"  The  lady  straight 
made  answer :  "Why !  for  a  phanix,  to  be  sure !"  But  the 
Prince,  who  had  as  ready  a  tongue  as  most,  did  retort: 
"Nay!  say  rather  for  a  bird  of  Paradise,  the  which  hath 
ever  more  feathers  than  flesh";  casting  up  at  her  by  this 
word  how  that  she  was  rather  thin  and  meagre.  The  fact 
is  she  was  too  young  a  thing  to  be  very  fat,  stoutness 
commonly  coming  only  upon  such  women  as  are  getting 
on  in  years,  at  the  time  when  they  do  begin  to  lay  on 
flesh  and  get  bigger  in  limbs  and  all  bodily  parts. 

[242] 


^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


A  certain  gentleman  did  make  a  good  reply  to  a  great 
Lord  I  wot  of.  Both  had  handsome  wives.  The  great 
Lord  in  question  found  the  gentleman  much  to  his  taste, 
and  most  enticing.  So  one  day  he  said  to  him,  "Sir!  I 
must  e'en  sleep  with  your  wife."  To  this  the  gentleman, 
without  a  thought,  for  he  was  very  ready  of  tongue,  did 
answer,  "I  am  willing  enough,  but  on  condition  I  sleep 
with  yours."  The  Lord  replied,  "Why!  what  would  you 
be  at?  I  tell  you,  mine  is  so  thin,  you  would  not  find  her 
to  your  taste  at  all."  To  this  the  gentleman  did  retort, 
"Yea  !  by  my  faith  !  je  la  larderai  si  menu  que  je  la  rendrai 
de  bon  gout." 

Many  women  there  be  whose  pretty,  chubby  faces  make 
men  fain  to  enjoy  them  yet  when  they  do  come  to  it, 
they  find  them  so  fleshless  the  pleasure  and  temptation  be 
right  soon  done  away.  Among  other  defects,  we  do  often 
find  the  gridiron  form,  as  it  called,  the  bones  so  prominent 
and  fleshless  they  do  press  and  chafe  a  man  as  sorely  as 
though  he  had  a  mule's  packsaddle  on  him.  To  remedy 
this,  there  be  some  dames  are  used  to  employ  little  cushions 
or  pads,  very  soft  and  very  delicately  made,  to  bear  the 
brunt  and  avoid  chafing.  I  have  heard  speak  of  many 
which  have  used  these  in  such  wise  that  lovers  not  in 
the  secret,  when  they  do  come  to  them,  find  naught  but 
what  is  good  to  touch,  and  are  quite  persuaded  'tis  their 
mistress's  natural  plumpness.  For  above  the  satin,  they 
will  wear  thin,  loose,  white  muslin.  In  this  way  the  lover 
would  leave  the  lady  well  pleased  and  satisfied,  and  him- 
self deem  her  a  right  good  mistress. 

Other  women  again  there  be  which  have  the  skin  all 
veined  and  marked  like  marble,  or  like  mosaic  work,  dap- 
pled like  a  fawn's  coat,  itchy  and  subject  to  sores  and 

[243] 


iY4W!ft1toU^1toW»W^»Y^^^^ 


i!!«{^!i8si»geiiu«^M!i(^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


farcies ;  in  a  word  so  foul  and  disfigured  the  sight  thereof 
is  very  far  from  pleasant. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  certain  great  lady,  and  I  have 
known  her  myself  and  do  know  her  still,  who  is  all  shaggy 
and  hairy  over  the  chest,  stomach,  shoulders  and  all  down 
the  spine,  like  a  savage.  I  leave  you  to  imagine  the  effect. 
The  proverb  hath  it,  no  person  thus  hairy  is  ever  rich  or 
wanton;  but  verily  in  this  case  the  lady  is  both  the  one 
and  the  other,  I  can  assure  you,  and  is  well  able  to  win 
admirers,  to  please  their  eye  and  gain  their  love. 

Others'  skin  is  like  goose  flesh  or  like  a  feathered  star- 
ling, all  rugged  and  cross-grained,  and  black  as  the  devil. 
Others  are  blessed  with  great  dangling  bosoms,  hanging 
down  worse  than  a  cow's  giving  its  calf  milk.  Very  sure 
am  I  these  be  not  the  fair  breasts  of  Helen,  who  one  day 
desiring  to  present  to  the  Temple  of  Diana  an  elegant 
cup  in  fulfilment  of  a  vow,  and  employing  a  goldsmith  to 
make  it  for  her,  did  cause  him  to  model  the  same  on  one 
of  her  lovely  breasts.  He  did  make  the  goblet  of  white 
gold  and  in  such  wise  that  folk  knew  not  which  to  admire 
the  most,  the  cup  itself  or  its  resemblance  to  the  beautiful 
bosom  which  he  had  taken  for  his  pattern.  It  looked  so 
round  and  sweet  and  plump,  the  copy  only  made  men  the 
more  to  desire  the  real  thing.  Pliny  doth  make  especial 
mention  thereof,  in  the  place  where  he  treateth  of  the  ex- 
istence of  white  gold.  'Tis  very  strange,  but  of  white  gold 
was  this  goblet  made. 

But  who,  I  should  like  to  know,  would  care  to  model 
golden  cups  on  the  great  ugly  breasts  I  speak  of  and  have 
seen.  We  should  be  bound  to  give  the  goldsmith  a  big 
supply  of  gold,  and  then  all  our  expense  would  but  end 
in  laughter  and  mockery,  when  we  should  cry,  "Look !  see 

[244] 


grffifrfflirftiff'ftiff^ijrftif^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a^^ftmg!fe!i!feg!^^ 

our  cup  wrought  on  the  model  of  so  and  so's  breasts." 
Indeed  they  would  not  so  much  be  like  drinking  cups  at 
all  as  those  great  wooden  puncheons,  round  and  big-bel- 
lied, we  see  used  for  feeding  swine  withal. 

Others  there  be  the  nipples  of  whose  breasts  are  for  all 
the  world  like  a  rotten  pear.  Others  again  whose  bodies 
are  all  rough  and  wrinkled,  that  you  would  take  them  for 
old  leathern  game-bags,  such  as  troopers  and  innkeepers 
carry.  This  cometh  to  women  which  have  borne  children, 
but  who  have  not  been  properly  seen  to  by  the  midwives. 
On  the  contrary  there  be  others  which  have  the  same  sweet 
and  smooth  and  polished,  and  their  bosom  as  plump  and 

pretty  as  if  they  were  still  maids. 

******* 

Other  women  there  be  have  their  parts  so  pale  and 
wan  you  would  say  they  had  the  fever.  Such  do  resemble 
some  drunkards,  which  though  they  do  drink  more 
wine  than  a  sucking  pig,  are  yet  always  as  pale  as 
the  dead.  Wherefore  do  men  call  them  traitors  to  their 
wine,  as  in  contrast  with  such  tipplers  as  are  rosy-faced. 
In  like  fashion  women  that  are  pale  in  this  region  might 
very  well  be  spoke  of  as  traitors  to  Venus,  were  it  not  for 
the  proverb  which  saith,  "a  pale  whore  and  a  red-faced 
scamp."  Be  this  as  it  may,  there  is  no  doubt  their  being 
pale  and  wan  is  not  agreeable  to  see ;  and  is  very  far  from 
resembling  that  of  one  of  the  fairest  ladies  of  our  time, 
and  one  that  doth  hold  high  rank  (and  myself  have  seen 
her),  who  they  used  to  say  did  commonly  sport  three  fine 
colours  all  together,  to  wit  scarlet,  white  and  black. 
For  her  mouth  was  brilliant  and  as  red  as  coral,  her  hair 
pretty  and  curly  and  as  black  as  ebony.  So  should  it 
ever  be,  for  indeed  this  is  one  of  the  chiefest  beauties  of 

[245] 


i,v8\ir^"/»irr^ir^ 


*aiiaJSft3<l!ii«!S«!ii^^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

3M2 


a  woman.  Then  the  skin  was  white  as  alabaster,  and  was 
finely  shadowed  by  this  dark  hair.  A  fair  sight  in  truth ! 

I  have  heard  Madame  de  Fontaine-Chalandray,  known 
as  the  fair  Torcy,  relate  how  that  her  Mistress,  Queen 
Eleanor,  being  robed  and  dressed,  did  appear  a  very 
beauteous  Princess,  and  indeed  there  be  many  which  have 
seen  her  looking  so  at  our  King's  Court,  and  of  a  good 
noble  figure.  But  being  stripped,  she  did  seem  a  very 
giantess  in  body,  so  long  was  it  and  big;  whereas  going 
lower  down,  she  seemed  but  a  dwarf,  so  short  and  small 
were  her  thighs  and  legs  and  all  those  parts. 

Another  great  lady  I  have  heard  speak  of  was  just  the 
opposite.  For  whereas  in  body  she  looked  a  dwarf,  so 
short  and  diminutive  was  it,  for  the  rest  down  below  she 
was  a  perfect  giantess  or  colossus,  so  big,  long  and  high- 
forked  were  her  thighs  and  legs,  though  at  the  same  time 
well-proportioned  and  fleshy. 

There  be  many  husbands  and  lovers  among  us  Chris- 
tians which  do  desire  to  be  in  all  respects  different  from 
the  Turks,  which  last  take  no  pleasure  in  looking  at  wom- 
en closely,  because  they  say,  as  I  have  stated  above,  they 
have  no  shape.  We  Christians  on  the  other  hand  do  find, 
'tis  said,  great  contentment  in  regarding  them  carefully 
and  do  delight  in  such.  Nay !  not  only  do  men  enjoy  seeing 
them,  but  likewise  in  kissing,  and  many  ladies  have  shown 
their  lovers  the  way.  Thus  a  Spanish  lady  did  reply  to 
her  lover  on  his  quitting  her  one  day  with  the  words, 
Bezo  las  manos  y  los  pies,  Senora;  Senor,  en  el  medio  esta 
la  me j ore  st acton. 

Other  women  have  their  thighs  so  ill  proportioned,  so 
unattractive  looking  and  so  badly  made  that  they  deserve 
not  to  be  regarded  or  desired  at  all ;  and  the  same  is  true 

[248] 


B?Wfti??^!glgjflgMS^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


of  their  legs,  which  in  some  be  so  stout  and  heavy  you 
would  say  the  thick  part  thereof  was  a  rabbit's  belly  when 
it  is  with  young.  In  others  again  they  be  so  thin  and  tiny 
and  so  like  a  stork's  shanks,  you  might  well  deem  them 
flute  pipes  rather  than  a  woman's  thighs  and  legs.  What 
the  rest  is  like,  I  will  e'en  leave  you  to  imagine ! 

If  I  were  to  detail  all  the  other  beauties  and  deformities 
women  are  subject  to,  truly  I  should  never  have  done. 
Now  all  I  do  say  hereanent,  or  might  say,  is  never  of  low- 
born or  common  women,  but  always  of  high-born,  or  at 
least  well-born,  ladies,  which  by  their  fairness  of  face  do 
set  the  world  on  fire,  but  what  of  their  person  is  hid  doth 
but  ill  correspond. 

2. 

|T  is  no  long  while  agone  since  in  a  certain  dis- 
trict of  Guyenne  a  married  dame,  of  very 
good  station  and  descent,  had  a  strange  ad- 
venture. As  she  was  overlooking  her  chil- 
dren's studies,  lo !  their  tutor,  by  some  madness  or  frenzy 
of  the  brain,  or  maybe  from  a  fierce  access  of  love  that 
did  suddenly  master  him,  did  take  a  sword  belonging  to 
her  husband  and  which  lay  on  the  bed,  and  did  assail  her 
so  furiously  as  that  he  did  transpierce  her  two  thighs 
and  her  two  labia  from  the  one  part  to  the  other.  Whereof 
she  did  after  all  but  die,  and  would  have  right  out  but  for 
the  help  of  an  excellent  surgeon.  She  might  well  say  of 
her  poor  body  how  that  it  had  been  in  two  divers  wars 
and  assailed  in  two  different  ways.  The  sight  thereof 
afterward  was,  I  imagine,  scarce  agreeable,  seeing  it  was 
so  scarred  and  its  wings  so  torn.  I  say  wings,  for  while 

[247] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

afi^tliytlfeHliLflja^tlftrai^^ 

the  Greeks  do  call  these  labia  hymenaea,  the  Latins  name 
the  same  alae  (wings),  the  moderns  labia,  or  lips,  and 
sundry  other  names.  For  truly  there  is  no  beast  or  bird, 
be  it  falcon,  raw  and  untrained,  like  that  of  our  young 
girls,  or  hawk,  whether  haggard  or  well  practised,  as  of 
our  married  women  and  widows,  that  doth  go  more  nimbly 
or  hath  the  wing  so  active. 

Other  women,  for  dread  of  colds  and  catarrhs,  do 
smother  themselves  in  bed  with  cape  and  mufflers  about 
the  head,  till  upon  my  word  they  do  look  more  like  old 
witches  than  young  women.  Yet  once  out  of  bed,  they 
are  as  smart  as  dolls.  Others  again  be  all  rouged  and 
painted  up  like  images,  fine  enough  by  day;  but  a-nights 
the  paint  is  off,  and  they  are  as  ugly  as  sin. 

It  were  well  to  examine  suchlike  dames  before  loving, 
marrying  and  enjoying  the  same,  as  Octavius  Caesar  was 
used  to  do.  For  along  with  his  friends  he  did  have  sundry 
great  ladies  and  Roman  matrons  stripped  naked,  and 
even  vigins  of  marriageable  age,  and  did  examine  them 
from  head  to  foot,  as  if  they  had  been  slave-women  and 
purchased  serfs.  The  said  examination  was  carried  out  by 
a  certain  horse-jockey  or  dealer  by  name  Toranus,  and 
according  as  this  man  did  approve  and  find  them  to  his 
liking,  and  unspoiled,  would  the  Emperor  take  his  pleas- 
ure with  them. 

This  is  precisely  what  the  Turks  do  in  their  slave-mar- 
ket at  Constantinople  and  other  great  towns,  when  they 
buy  slaves,  whether  male  or  female. 

Well  !  I  will  say  no  more  of  all  this  ;  indeed  methinks  I 
have  already  said  over  much.  So  this  is  how  we  be  sore 
deceived  in  many  sights  we  at  the  first  imagine  and  believe 
very  admirable.  But  if  we  be  thus  deceived  in  some  good 

[248] 


»raiffWTji?fsiffwwwKigwww^Bral^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

m^a^i&a^ytia^^ 

ladies,  no  less  are  we  edified  and  well  satisfied  in  other 
some,  the  which  are  so  fair  and  sweet  and  clean,  so  fresh 
and  plump,  so  lovable  and  desirable,  in  one  word  so  per- 
fect in  all  their  bodily  parts,  that  after  them  all  sights  in 
this  world  are  but  mean  and  empty.  Whence  it  cometh 
there  be  men,  which  at  such  a  sight  do  so  lose  their  wits 
they  must  at  once  to  work.  Moreover  'tis  often  the  case 
that  such  fair  dames  do  find  pleasure  in  showing  their 
persons  and  do  make  no  difficulty  so  to  do,  knowing  them- 
selves as  they  do  without  spot  or  blemish,  to  the  end  they 
may  the  better  rouse  temptation  and  concupiscence  in 
our  manly  bosoms. 

One  day  when  we  were  together  at  the  siege  of  La  Ro- 
chelle,  the  late  unfortunate  Due  de  Guise,1  which  did  me 
the  honour  to  hold  me  in  affection,  did  come  and  show 
me  some  tables  he  had  just  filched  from  Monsieur  the 
King's  brother,2  our  General  in  that  enterprise,  from  out 
the  pocket  of  his  breeches,  and  said  thus:  "Monsieur 
hath  done  me  a  displeasure  and  mocked  me  concerning 
my  love  for  a  certain  lady.  Well  I  would  fain  now  take 
my  revenge;  look  at  these  tables  of  his,  and  read  what  I 
have  writ  therein."  With  this  he  did  hand  me  the  tables, 
and  I  saw  writ  therein  in  his  hand  these  four  verses  fol- 
lowing, which  he  had  just  made  up, — only  that  the  word 
was  set  down  outright  in  the  first  line: 

Si  vous  ne  m'avez  congeue, 
II  n'a  pas  term  a  moy; 
Car  vous  m'avez  bien  vue  nue, 
Et  vous  ay  monstre  de  quoy. 

(If  you  have  not  known  me,  this  is  no  fault  of  mine.  For 
indeed  you  have  seen  me  naked,  and  I  have  shown  you  all  you 
need.) 

[249] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


i^!is^i^^ 


After,  he  did  tell  me  the  lady's  name,  an  unmarried 
girl  to  say  truth,  which  I  did  already  suspect.  I  said  I 
was  greatly  surprised  the  Prince  had  never  touched  or 
known  her,  seeing  his  opportunities  had  been  very  ample, 
and  he  was  credited  by  common  report  with  being  her 
lover.  But  he  did  answer,  'twas  not  so,  and  that  it  was 
solely  by  his  own  fault.  To  which  I  replied,  "Then  it 
must  needs,  my  Lord,  have  been,  either  that  at  the  time  he 
was  so  weary  and  so  sated  in  other  quarters  he  was  unable 
to  bear  the  brunt,  or  else  that  he  was  so  entranced  with 
the  contemplation  of  her  naked  charms  that  he  did  give 
never  a  thought  to  the  active  part." — "Well !  it  may  be," 
the  Prince  answered,  "he  was  good  to  do  it;  but  anyhow 
this  time  he  failed  to  take  his  opportunity.  So  I  am 
having  my  fun  of  him,  and  I  am  going  to  put  his  tables 
back  in  his  pocket,  which  he  will  presently  examine,  as  is 
his  wont,  and  must  needs  read  what  I  have  writ.  And  so 
I  have  my  revenge."  This  he  did,  and  never  after  did  they 
twain  meet  without  having  a  good  laugh  over  it,  and  a 
merry  passage  of  arms.  For  at  that  period  was  great 
friendship  and  intimacy  betwixt  these  two,  though  after 
so  strangely  altered. 

A  lady  of  the  great  world,  or  to  speak  strictly  a  young 
maid,  was  held  in  much  love  and  close  intimacy  by  a  cer- 
tain great  Princess.  The  latter  was  one  time  in  her  bed, 
resting,  as  was  her  wont,  when  a  gentleman  did  come  to 
see  the  damsel,  one  which  was  deep  in  love  with  her,  albeit 
he  had  naught  at  all  but  his  love  to  aid  his  suit.  Then 
the  fair  lady,  being  so  well  loved  and  on  such  intimate 
terms  with  her  Mistress  the  Princess,  did  come  to  her  as 
she  lay,  and  nimbly,  without  any  warning  whatsoever,  did 
suddenly  drag  away  all  the  coverings  from  off  her,  in 

[250] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


such  wise  that  the  gentleman,  by  no  means  slow  to  use 
his  eyes,  did  instantly  cast  them  on  her,  and  beheld,  as 
he  did  tell  me  the  tale  afterward,  the  fairest  sight  ever  he 
saw  or  is  like  to  see,  —  her  beautiful  body,  and  all  her 
lovely,  white,  exquisite  person,  that  did  make  him  think 
he  was  gazing  on  the  beauties  of  Paradise.  But  this 
scarce  lasted  an  instant;  for  the  moment  the  bed-clothes 
were  thrown  off,  the  lady  did  snatch  back  the  same,  the 
girl  having  meanwhile  run  off.  Yet  as  luck  would  have 
it,  the  more  the  fair  lady  did  struggle  to  pull  back  the 
coverings,  the  more  she  did  display  her  charms.  This  in 
no  wise  spoiled  the  sight  and  the  pleasure  the  gentleman 
had  therein,  who  you  may  be  sure  did  not  put  himself 
about  to  help  her,  —  he  had  been  a  fool  so  to  do.  How- 
ever, presently  in  one  way  or  another  she  did  get  her 
coverings  over  her  again  as  before,  chiding  her  favourite, 
but  gently  withal,  and  telling  her  she  should  pay  for  her 
pranks.  The  damsel,  who  had  slipped  away  a  little  out 
of  her  reach,  did  only  reply,  "Madam,  you  did  play  me  a 
trick  a  while  agone;  forgive  me  if  that  I  have  paid  you 
back  in  your  own  coin."  And  so  saying,  through  the 
chamber-door  and  away!  But  peace  was  not  long 
a-making. 

Meanwhile  the  gentleman  was  so  content  with  what  he 
had  seen,  and  so  full  of  ecstasy,  delight  and  satisfaction, 
I  have  heard  him  declare  an  hundred  times  over  he  did 
wish  for  naught  else  his  life  long  but  only  to  live  and 
dream  of  this  fair  sight  day  by  day.  And  in  sooth  he 
was  right  for  to  judge  by  the  fair  face  that  is  without  a 
rival  and  the  beauteous  bosom  that  hath  so  ravished  man- 
kind, there  must  indeed  have  been  yet  more  exquisite 
dainties.  And  he  did  affirm  that  among  these  charms,  the 

[251] 


y*tfto\ir/»w»w«Y.MMtaw«wwr^^^ 


llSfllSaiSf.'ISillSSlSatV'     '  '*     '    '•  :'     •  '  •    ••     »•••••«     «     •     •  .» 


said  lady  did  possess  the  finest  figure,  and  the  best  devel- 
oped, ever  he  did  set  eyes  on.  And  it  may  well  be  so,  for 
she  was  of  a  very  rich  and  opulent  figure,  and  this  must 
needs  be  one  of  the  chief  of  all  a  woman's  beauties,  and 
like  a  frontier  fortress,  one  of  the  most  necessary  and 
indispensable. 

When  the  said  gentleman  had  told  me  all  his  tale,  I 
could  only  bid  him,  "Live  on,  my  friend,  live  on ;  with  this 
divine  sight  to  dream  on  and  this  happy  contemplation, 
you  should  never  die.  And  heaven  grant  me  before  I  die, 
at  least  to  see  so  fair  a  spectacle!" 

The  said  gentleman  did  surely  owe  an  eternal  debt  of 
gratitude  to  the  damsel,  and  did  ever  after  honour  and 
love  her  with  all  his  heart.  And  he  did  woo  her  right 
eagerly  as  lover,  yet  married  her  not  at  the  last;  for 
another  suitor,  richer  than  he,  did  carry  her  off,  for  truly 
'tis  the  way  of  all  women  to  run  after  the  solid  good  things 
of  life. 

Sights  like  this  be  fair  and  right  pleasant ;  yet  must  we 
beware  they  work  not  harm,  as  the  view  of  the  beauteous 
Diana  in  her  nakedness  did  to  poor  Acteon,  or  yet  another 
I  am  about  to  tell  of. 

A  great  King  did  in  his  day  love  fondly  a  very  beauti- 
ful, honourable  and  great  lady,  a  widow,  so  that  men  did 
esteem  him  bewitched  of  her  charms.  For  little  did  he 
reck  of  other  women,  or  even  of  his  wife,  except  only  now 
and  again,  for  this  fair  lady  did  always  have  the  pick  of 
the  flowers  of  his  garden.  This  did  sorely  grieve  the 
Queen,  for  she  knew  herself  as  fair  and  lovable,  as  well 
deserving  of  loyal  service  and  as  worthy  to  enjoy  such 
dainty  morsels  as  the  other.  All  this  did  both  anger  and 
surprise  her  much;  wherefore  having  made  her  moan  to 

[252] 


*fl^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


ai^t»gi»^u»>«^!»4k^^ 


a  great  lady  which  was  her  chief  favourite,  she  did  plot 
with  her  and  contrive  if  there  were  no  way  whereby  she 
might  e'en  spy  through  some  peep-hole  the  game  her  hus- 
band and  the  lady  should  play  together.  And  accord- 
ingly she  did  contrive  to  make  sundry  holes  in  the  ceiling 
of  the  said  lady's  chamber,  for  to  see  it  all  and  the  life 
they  twain  should  lead  with  one  another.  So  they  did 
set  them  to  view  the  sight;  yet  beheld  naught  but  what 
was  fair  to  see,  for  they  did  behold  only  a  most  beauteous, 
white  and  delicately  made  woman,  tender  and  sweet,  half 
muffled  in  her  shift,  entertaining  of  her  lover  with  pretty, 
dainty  caresses  and  most  tricksome  pranks,  and  her  lover 
performing  the  like  to  her.  Then  presently  the  twain 
would  lie  and  frolic  together  on  the  thick,  soft  carpet 
which  was  by  the  bed-side,  so  to  escape  the  heat  and  the 
better  to  enjoy  the  cool.  For  it  was  then  at  the  hottest 
of  the  year;  and  myself  have  also  known  another  very 
great  Prince  which  was  used  to  take  his  amusement  with 
his  wife  in  this  fashion,  to  avoid  the  heat  brought  on  by 
the  great  warmth  of  the  summer  season,  as  himself  did 
declare. 

The  unhappy  Queen  then,  having  seen  and  observed  it 
all,  did  of  very  despite  set  to  and  weep,  sob,  sigh  and 
make  sore  moan,  thinking,  and  saying  too,  how  that  her 
husband  did  never  the  like  with  her,  nor  ever  went  through 
suchlike  amorous  follies  as  she  had  seen  him  perform  with 
his  mistress. 

The  other  lady,  which  was  with  her,  did  what  she  could 
for  to  comfort  her,  and  chided  her  for  making  so  sad  a 
moan,  saying  what  was  true  enough,  that  as  she  had  been 
so  curious  as  to  spy  out  such  doings,  she  could  scarce 
have  expected  else.  To  this  the  Queen  did  make  no  other 

[253] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

answer  but  only  this,  "Alas !  yes,  I  was  wilful,  and  fain  to 
see  a  thing  I  should  never  have  beheld,  for  verily  the  sight 
thereof  did  hurt  me  very  sore!"  Natheless  did  she  find 
some  comfort  anon  and  resolution  of  mind,  and  did  leave 
off  sorrowing. 

I  have  heard  yet  another  story  of  an  honourable 
lady  who  when  a  girl  was  whipped  by  her  mother 
twice  every  day,  not  that  she  had  done  aught  wrong,  but 
because,  as  she  supposed,  her  mother  did  find  a  pleasure 
in  seeing  her  so  wriggle. 

I  have  heard  even  a  worse  thing  of  a  great  Lord  and 
Prince,  more  than  eighty  years  agone,  how  that  before 
going  to  cohabit  with  his  wife,  he  was  used  to  have  him- 
self whipped,  not  being  able  to  be  moved  nor  to  do  any- 
thing without  this  ridiculous  remedy.  I  should  greatly 
like  some  competent  physician  to  tell  me  the  reason 
hereof. 

That  great  and  distinguished  author,  Pico  della  Miran- 
dola,3  doth  declare  himself  to  have  seen  a  gallant  of  his 
day,  who  the  more  he  was  thrashed  with  heavy  blows  of  a 
stirrup-leather,  the  more  was  he  thereby  fierce  after  wom- 
en. Never  was  he  so  valiant  with  them  as  after  he  had 
been  so  leathered,  though  \vhen  it  was  once  well  done,  he 
was  as  fierce  as  any  man.  Truly  here  be  some  strange 
and  terrible  caprices !  At  any  rate  to  see  others  whipped 
is  a  more  agreeable  sort  of  humour  than  this  last ! 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


»4^^i^t^i>«jK^i^^ 


3. 

|HEN  I  was  at  Milan,  I  was  one  day  told  a 
diverting  tale, — how  the  late  Marquis  de  Pcs- 
caire,1  dead  no  long  while  agone,  erst  Viceroy 
of  Sicily,  did  fall  deeply  in  love  with  a  very 
fair  lady.  And  so  one  morning,  believing  her  husband 
was  gone  abroad,  he  set  forth  to  visit  her,  finding  her 
still  a-bed ;  but  in  conversation  with  her,  he  did  win 
naught  else  but  only  to  see  her,  gaze  at  her  under  the 
clothes  at  his  leisure,  and  touch  her  with  his  hand.  While 
this  was  a-doing,  lo !  the  husband  did  appear,  a  man  which 
was  not  of  the  high  consideration  of  the  Marquis  in  any 
respect,  and  did  surprise  them  in  such  sort  that  the  Mar- 
quis had  no  time  to  get  back  his  glove,  the  which  was  lost 
some  way  or  another  among  the  sheets,  as  doth  frequently 
happen.  Presently,  after  exchanging  a  few  words  with 
him,  he  did  leave  the  chamber,  conducted  to  the  door  by 
the  husband.  The  latter  on  returning  did,  as  chance 
would  have  it,  discover  the  Marquis's  glove  lost  among  the 
sheets,  the  lady  not  having  noticed  the  same.  This  he 
did  take  and  lock  up,  and  after,  putting  on  a  cold  de- 
meanour toward  his  wife,  did  long  remain  without  sleep- 
ing with  her  or  touching  her  at  all.  Wherefore  one  day 
she  being  alone  in  her  chamber,  did  set  hand  to  pen  and 
write  this  quatrain  following: 

Vigna  era,  vigna  son. 
Era  podata,  or  piu  non  son; 
E  non  so  per  qual  cagion 
Non  mi  poda  il  mio  patron. 
[255] 


eraigwwgigffijraiffgiffKi?rffl?fi^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

^ 


So  leaving  these  verses  writ  out  on  the  table,  anon  the 
husband  came  and  saw  the  lines;  and  so  taketh  pen  and 
doth  thus  reply: 

Vigna  eri,  vigna  sei, 
Eri  podata,  e  piu  non  sei. 
Per  la  granfa  del  Icon, 
Non  ti  poda  il  tuo  patron. 

These  he  did  leave  likewise  on  the  table.  The  whole 
was  carried  to  the  Marquis,  who  made  answer : 

A  la  vigna  chez  voi  dite 

lo  fui,  e  qui  restai; 

Alzai  il  pampano;  guardai  la  vite; 

Ma,  se  Dio  m'ajuti,  non  toccai. 

This  in  turn  was  shown  to  the  husband,  who  satisfied 
with  so  honourable  a  reply  and  fair  apology,  did  take  his 
vine  to  him  again,  and  did  cultivate  the  same  as  indus- 
triously as  heretofore;  and  never  were  husband  and  wife 
happier  together. 

I  will  now  translate  the  verses  from  the  Italian,  that  all 
may  follow  the  sense : 

"I  was  a  vine,  and  am  so  still.  I  was  well  cultivated ;  but 
am  so  no  more.  And  I  know  not  for  what  cause  my  mas- 
ter doth  not  now  cultivate  me  as  before." 

ANSWER  : 

"A  vine  thou  wert,  and  art  so  still;  thou  wert  well 
cultivated,  and  art  so  no  more.  Because  of  the  lion's 
claw,  for  this  cause  thy  master  doth  not  now  cultivate 
thee  as  before." 

[256] 


ig^ffififfi?^i??saffgigsag^^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


ANSWER     OF     THE     MABQUIS : 

"The  vine  you  both  do  speak  of  I  visited  'tis  true,  and 
tarried  a  space.  I  lifted  the  cluster,  and  looked  at  the 
grape;  but,  so  God  help  me,  touched  not  at  all." 

By  the  "lion's  claw"  the  husband  meaneth  to  signify 
the  glove  he  had  found  lost  between  the  sheets. 

A  good  husband  this,  which  did  not  take  umbrage  over- 
much, and  putting  away  his  suspicions,  did  thus  forgive 
his  wife.  And  there  is  no  doubt  there  be  ladies  which  do 
take  such  a  delight  in  themselves  they  do  love  to  see 
themselves  naked  and  gaze  at  their  own  beauty,  in  such 
wise  that  they  are  filled  with  ravishment  beholding  them- 
selves so  lovely,  like  Narcissus.  What  then,  I  ask,  is  it 
like  we  men  should  do,  whenas  we  do  see  and  gaze  at  the 
same  ? 

Mariamn£,  the  wife  of  Herod,2  a  fair  and  honourable 
lady,  when  that  one  day  her  husband  was  fain  to  sleep 
with  her  at  full  midday,  and  see  openly  all  her  charms, 
did  refuse  flatly,  so  Josephus  doth  record.  Nor  did  he 
insist  on  his  rights  as  a  husband,  as  did  a  great  Lord  I 
knew  once  with  his  wife,  one  of  the  fairest  of  the  fair, 
whom  he  did  enjoy  thus  in  open  day,  and  did  strip  her 
stark  naked,  she  protesting  stoutly  the  while.  After,  he 
did  send  her  women  to  her  to  dress  her  again,  who  did 
find  her  all  in  tears  and  filled  with  shame.  Other  dames 
on  the  contrary  there  be  which  do  make  no  set  scruples 
of  the  sort  at  making  display  of  their  beauty  and  showing 
themselves  thus,  the  better  to  stir  their  lovers'  passion 
and  caprice,  and  draw  them  the  more  fondly  to  them. 
Yet  will  they  in  no  wise  suffer  them  to  enjoy  their  most 
precious  favour.  Some  indeed,  ill  liking  to  halt  on  so 

[257] 


fctftoYiy*ir«ir/»ir^irAYii/iw«^ 


LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

mMussyeiMsi^yi^sj^ 

pleasant  a  road,  soon  go  further ;  but  others  there  be, — I 
have  heard  tell  of  not  a  few  such, — which  have  long  time 
entertained  their  lovers  with  such  fair  sights,  and  no 
more. 

Happy  they  which  have  patience  so  to  bide  their  time, 
without  yielding  overmuch  to  temptation.  Yet  must  the 
man  be  fair  bewitched  of  virtue  who  seeing  a  beautiful 
woman,  doth  give  his  eyes  no  gratification.  So  was  Alex- 
ander the  Great  used  to  say  at  whiles  to  his  friends  how 
that  the  Persian  maids  did  much  hurt  the  eyes  of  such  as 
did  gaze  at  them.  And  for  this  cause,  when  he  held  pris- 
oners the  daughters  of  King  Darius,  he  would  never  greet 
them  but  with  downcast  eyes,  and  likewise  as  seldom  as 
ever  he  could,  for  fear  he  should  have  been  overcome  by 
the  excellence  of  their  beauty. 

Not  in  those  times  only,  but  likewise  in  our  own  days, 
among  all  the  women  of  the  East,  the  Persian  fair  ones 
do  bear  the  bell  and  prize  of  beauty,  and  fine  proportion 
of  bodily  parts,  and  natural  charm,  as  well  as  of  becom- 
ing grace  and  fitness  in  dress  and  foot-gear — and  above 
all  others,  they  of  the  ancient  and  royal  city  of  Shiraz.8 
These  last  be  so  commended  for  their  beauty,  fair  skin, 
civility  of  manners  and  sweet  grace,  that  the  Moors  do 
say  in  an  old  and  well-known  proverb,  how  that  their 
Prophet  Mahomet  would  never  go  to  Shiraz,  for  fear,  had 
he  once  set  eyes  on  its  lovely  women,  his  soul  after  death 
would  never  have  entered  Paradise.  Travellers  which 
have  been  to  that  city  and  writ  thereof,  do  say  the  same. 
And  herein  observe  the  hypocrisy  of  that  same  dissolute 
and  rascal  Prophet  and  his  pretended  continence;  as  if  it 
were  not  to  be  found  writ  down,  as  Belon  doth  tell  us,  in 
an  Arab  work  entitled  "Of  the  Good  Customs  of  Ma- 

[258] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


JBSfltjsajsK^t^sjgitjggi^^ 


hornet,"  extolling  the  Prophet's  corporeal  vigour,  how 
that  he  was  used  to  boast  of  working  and  satisfying  all 
his  eleven  wives  which  he  had  in  a  single  hour,  one  after 
the  other.  To  the  deuce  with  the  rascally  fellow !  Let  us 
speak  no  more  of  him.  When  all  is  said  and  done,  I  had 
as  lief  never  have  named  him  at  all! 

I  have  heard  this  question  raised  concerning  the  be- 
haviour of  Alexander  which  I  have  described  above  and 
that  of  Scipio  Africanus, — to  wit  which  of  the  twain  did 
merit  the  greater  praise  of  continency? 

Alexander,  distrusting  the  strength  of  his  chasteness, 
did  refuse  even  to  look  at  the  fair  Persian  maids.  Scipio, 
after  the  taking  of  New  Carthage,  did  look  at  the  beau- 
tiful Spanish  girl  his  soldiers  brought  him  and  offered 
him  as  his  share  of  the  booty,  which  maid  was  so  excellent 
in  beauty  and  of  so  fair  a  time  of  life  and  flower  of  age, 
that  wheresoever  she  did  pass,  she  would  brighten  and 
charm  the  eyes  of  all  that  did  behold  her,  and  eke  of  Scipio 
himself.  But  he,  after  greeting  her  right  courteously, 
did  make  inquiry  of  what  city  of  Spain  she  was  and  of 
her  family. 

Then  was  he  informed,  among  other  things,  how  that 
she  was  betrothed  to  a  young  man,  Alucius  by  name, 
Prince  of  the  Celtiberians,  to  whom  he  did  give  her  up  and 
to  her  father  and  mother,  without  ever  laying  a  hand  on 
her.  By  which  conduct  he  did  lay  the  said  lady,  her  rela- 
tions and  her  betrothed,  under  such  obligation  that  they 
did  ever  after  show  themselves  most  well  affectioned  to 
the  city  of  Rome  and  the  Commonwealth. 

Yet  who  knoweth  but  in  her  secret  soul  this  fair  dam- 
sel had  not  rather  have  been  assailed  first  of  all  by  Scipio, 
— who,  remember,  was  young,  handsome,  brave,  valiant 

[259] 


ffTftiffWT^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


and  victorious  ?  It  may  well  be  that  if  some  bosom  friend, 
male  or  female  of  the  girl's  had  asked  her  on  her  faith 
and  conscience  whether  she  had  not  wished  it  so,  I  leave 
it  to  the  reader  to  suppose  what  she  would  have  answered, 
and  if  at  the  least  she  would  not  have  made  some  little 
sign  or  gesture  signifying  what  her  real  wish  had  been. 
For  think  how  the  climate  of  her  country  and  that  wester- 
ing sun  of  Spain  might  well  have  made  her  hot  and  keen 
for  love,  as  it  hath  many  another  fair  lady  of  that  land, 
as  fair  and  gracious  as  she,  in  our  own  day,  as  myself 
have  seen  many  an  one.  It  can  scarce  be  doubted  then, 
if  this  fair  and  honourable  maid  had  but  been  asked  and 
courted  of  the  young  and  handsome  Scipio,  but  she  would 
have  taken  him  at  the  word,  yea  !  even  on  the  altar  of  her 
heathen  gods  ! 

Herein  hath  Scipio  doubtless  been  commended  highly  of 
some  for  his  noble  gift  of  continence.  Yet  hath  he  been 
no  less  blamed  of  others;  for  wherein  may  a  brave  and 
valorous  gallant  better  show  forth  the  generosity  of  his 
heart  towards  a  fair  and  honourable  lady  than  by  mani- 
festing to  her  in  deeds  that  he  doth  prize  her  beauty  and 
highly  admire  it.  Better  this  than  treating  her  with  that 
cold  respect,  that  modesty  and  discretion,  the  which  I 
have  heard  many  good  gentlemen  and  honest  ladies  call 
rather  by  the  name  of  silliness  and  want  of  spirit  than  of 
virtue?  Nay,  verily!  'tis  not  such  qualities  at  all  a  beau- 
tiful and  worthy  dame  doth  love  in  her  heart  of  hearts, 
but  rather  good  love  and  service  that  is  prudent,  discreet 
and  secret.  In  one  word,  as  an  honourable  lady  did  one 
day  exclaim  a-reading  of  this  tale,  Scipio  was  a  fool, 
valiant  and  noble  captain  as  he  was,  to  go  out  of  his  way 
so  to  bind  folk  to  him  under  obligation  and  to  the  Roman 

[260] 


WtffffVKKTSiffWfFftff'Wff^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


side  by  any  such  silly  ways,  when  he  might  have  done  it 
just  as  well  by  other  means  more  convenient.  Beside, 
'twas  booty  of  War,  whereof  a  man  may  take  his  joy  and 
triumph  as  legitimately  as  of  any  other  thing  whatsoever 
in  the  world,  or  more  so. 

The  great  First  Founder  of  Rome  did  not  so,  on  oc- 
casion of  the  rape  of  the  fair  Sabine  women,  toward 
her  which  fell  to  his  share.  Rather  he  did  to  her  accord- 
ing to  his  good  pleasure,  and  paid  her  no  cold  respect 
whatever.  This  she  did  relish  well  enough  and  felt  no 
grievance,  neither  she  nor  her  companions,  which  did  very 
soon  make  accord  with  their  new  husbands  and  ravishers. 
The  women  for  their  part  did  make  no  complaint  like 
their  fathers  and  mothers,  which  did  rouse  a  fierce  war 
of  reprisals. 

True  it  is,  folk  be  of  different  sorts,  and  there  be  women 
and  women.  Some  are  loth  to  yield  to  any  stranger  in 
this  sort,  herein  more  resembling  the  wife  of  King  Orti- 
agon,  one  of  the  Galatian  monarchs  of  Asia  Minor.  She 
was  of  a  perfect  beauty,  and  being  taken  captive  on  the 
Kings'  defeat  by  a  Roman  Centurion  and  solicited  in  her 
honour,  she  did  stand  firm  in  refusal,  having  a  horror  of 
yielding  herself  to  him,  a  man  of  so  low  and  base  a  station 
compared  with  herself.  Wherefore  he  did  have  her  by 
force  and  violence,  whom  the  fortune  and  chance  of  War 
had  given  him  by  right  of  conquest  to  make  his  slave  of. 
But  'twas  no  long  while  before  he  did  repent  him,  and 
meet  with  vengeance  for  this  offence;  for  the  Queen,  hav- 
ing promised  him  a  great  ransom  for  her  liberty,  and 
both  being  come  to  the  appointed  place  for  him  to  receive 
the  money,  she  did  have  him  slain,  as  he  was  a-counting 
of  the  gold,  and  did  carry  away  it  and  his  head  to  her 

[261] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


husband.  To  this  last  she  did  confess  freely  how  that 
the  Roman  had  indeed  violated  her  chastity,  but  that  she 
had  taken  her  vengeance  of  him  therefor  in  this  fashion,  — 
the  which  her  husband  did  approve  and  did  highly  honour 
her  for  her  behaviour.  And  from  that  day  forth,  said  the 
history,  she  did  faithfully  keep  her  honour  unsullied  to 
the  last  day  of  her  life  with  all  scrupulousness  and  serious- 
ness. Anyway  she  did  enjoy  this  good  treat,  albeit  it  did 
come  from  a  low-born  fellow. 

Lucretia  did  otherwise,  for  she  tasted  not  the  pleasure 
at  all,  albeit  solicited  by  a  gallant  King.  Herein  was  she 
doubly  a  fool,  first  not  to  gratify  him  on  the  spot  and 
readily  enough,  and  secondly  to  kill  herself. 

To  return  once  more  to  Scipio,  'twould  seem  he  knew 
not  yet  the  ways  of  War  concerning  booty  and  pillage. 
For  by  what  I  learn  of  a  great  Captain  of  our  troops, 
there  is  no  such  dainty  morsel  for  loot  as  a  woman  taken 
in  War.  The  same  good  soldier  did  make  much  mock 
of  sundry  others  his  comrades,  which  were  used  to  insist 
above  all  things,  at  assaults  and  surprises  of  towns,  on 
the  saving  of  the  women's  honour,  as  well  as  on  divers 
other  occasions  and  rencontres.  This  is  sheer  folly,  see- 
ing women  do  always  love  men  of  arms  more  than  any 
others,  and  the  very  roughness  of  these  doth  give  them  the 
better  appetite.  So  who  can  find  aught  to  blame?  The 
pleasure  is  theirs;  their  honour  and  their  husbands'  is 
in  no  way  fouled  ;  and  where  is  the  mighty  harm  and  ruin? 
And  yet  another  point,  —  they  do  oft  by  this  means  save 
their  husbands'  goods  and  lives,  —  as  did  Eunoe,  wife  of 
Bogud  or  Bocchus,  King  of  Mauretania,  to  whom  Cassar 
did  give  great  possessions  and  to  her  husband  likewise, 
not  so  much,  we  may  well  believe,  for  having  followed  his 

[262] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


side,  as  Juba,  King  of  Bithynia  did  that  of  Pompey,  as 
because  she  was  a  beautiful  woman,  and  Caesar  did  have 
the  enjoyment  of  her  pleasant  favours. 

Many  other  excellent  conveniences  are  there  and  advan- 
tages of  these  loves  I  must  needs  pass  over.  Yet,  this  same 
great  Captain  would  exclaim,  in  spite  of  them  all  would 
other  commanders,  his  comrades  and  fellows,  obeying  silly, 
old-fashioned  laws  of  War,  be  fain  to  preserve  the  honour 
of  women.  But  surely  'twere  more  meet  first  to  find  out  in 
secrecy  and  confidence  their  real  wishes,  and  then  decide 
what  to  do.  Or  mayhap  they  be  of  the  complexion  of  our 
friend  Scipio,  who  was  worse  than  the  gardener's  dog, 
which,  as  I  have  before  said,  will  neither  himself  eat  the 
cabbages  in  the  garden,  nor  yet  let  other  folk  taste  of 
them.  This  is  the  way  he  did  treat  the  unhappy  Mas- 
sinissa,  who  had  so  oft  times  risked  his  life  for  him  and 
for  the  Roman  People,  and  so  sore  laboured,  sweated  and 
endeavoured,  for  to  gain  him  glory  and  victory.  Yet  after 
all  he  did  refuse  him  the  fair  Queen  Sophonisba  and  did 
rob  him  of  her,  seeing  he  had  chose  her  for  his  chiefest 
and  most  precious  spoil.  He  did  take  her  from  him  to 
send  her  to  Rome,  there  to  live  out  the  rest  of  her  days  as 
a  wretched  slave, — if  Massinissa  had  not  found  a  remedy 
to  save  her  from  this  fate.  The  Conqueror's  glory  had 
been  fairer  and  nobler,  if  she  had  appeared  at  Rome  as  a 
glorious  and  stately  Queen,  and  wife  of  Massinissa,  so 
that  folk  would  have  said,  as  they  saw  her  go  by :  "Look ! 
one  of  the  fair  vestiges  of  Scipio's  conquests."  Surely 
true  glory  doth  lie  much  rather  in  the  display  of  great 
and  noble  things  than  of  mean  and  degraded. 

In  fine,  Scipio,  in  all  this  discussion,  was  shown  to  have 
committed  grievous  faults,  whether  because  he  was  an 

[263] 


ft?.ft^r/ffir/itf.rrtfiir^^^ 


;]l»«l»^y!^IXVJ^4!^lVVJ^ 


enemy  of  the  whole  female  sex,  or  as  having  been  altogether 
impotent  to  satisfy  its  wishes.  And  yet  'tis  said  that  in  his 
later  years  he  did  engage  in  a  love  intrigue  with  one  of  his 
wife's  maids, — the  which  the  latter  did  very  patiently 
endure,  for  reasons  that  might  easily  be  alleged  to  account 
for  the  said  complaisancy. 


4. 

|OWEVER,  to  return  from  the  digression  I  have 
just  been  indulging  in  and  come  back  into  the 
direct  course  of  my  argument,  I  do  declare  as 
my  last  word  in  this  discourse,  that  nothing 
in  all  the  wide  world  is  so  fair  to  see  and  look  upon  as  a 
beautiful  woman  splendidly  attired  or  else  daintily  dis- 
robed and  laid  upon  a  fair  bed,  provided  always  she  be 
sound  and  sweet,  without  blemish,  blot  or  defect,  as  I 
have  afore  said. 

King  Francis  I.  was  used  to  say,  no  gentleman,  how- 
soever magnificent,  could  in  any  better  wise  receive  a  great 
Lord,  howsoever  mighty  and  high-born,  at  his  mansion  or 
castle,  than  by  offering  to  his  view  on  his  first  arrival  a 
beautiful  woman,  a  fine  horse  and  a  handsome  hound.  For 
by  casting  his  gaze  now  on  the  one,  now  on  the  other 
and  presently  on  the  third,  he  would  never  be  a-weary  in 
that  house,  having  there  the  three  things  most  pleasant 
to  look  upon  and  admire,  and  so  exercising  his  eyes  right 
agreeably. 

Queen  Isabelle  of  Castile  was  wont  to  say,  there  were 
four  things  did  give  her  very  great  pleasure  to  behold: 
H ombre  d'armas  en  campo,  obisbo  puesto  en  pontifical, 
Undo,  dama  en  la  cama,  y  ladron  en  la  horca, — "A  man 

[264] 


Bflaffwggpfflgwgigwwwwws^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

mmjii&Jiisys&jfsiijmj^^ 

of  arms  in  the  field,  a  Bishop  in  his  pontificals,  a  fair  lady 
in  her  bed,  and  a  thief  on  the  gallows." 

I  have  heard  the  late  Cardinal  de  Lorraine,  a  short  while 
since  deceased,  relate  how  on  the  occasion  of  his  going  to 
Rome  to  the  Court  of  Pope  Paul  IV.,  to  break  off  the  truce 
made  with  the  Emperor,  he  did  pass  through  Venice, 
where  he  was  very  honourably  received,  we  cannot  doubt, 
seeing  he  was  so  high  in  the  favour  of  so  high  and  puissant 
a  King.  The  most  noble  and  magnificent  Senate  of  that  city 
did  set  forth  in  a  body  to  meet  him.  Presently,  passing  up 
the  Grand  Canal,  where  every  window  of  all  the  houses 
was  crowded  with  all  the  fairest  ladies  of  the  place,  who 
had  assembled  thither  to  see  the  state  entry,  there  was  a 
certain  great  man  of  the  highest  rank  which  did  discourse 
to  him  on  the  business  of  the  State,  and  spake  at  length 
of  great  matters.  But  after  a  while,  seeing  the  Cardinal 
was  for  ever  casting  his  eyes  and  fixing  them  on  all  these 
beautiful  dames,  he  said  to  him  in  his  native  Venetian 
dialect:  "My  Lord  Cardinal,  I  think  you  heed  me  not, 
and  you  are  right  enough.  For  surely  'tis  much  more 
pleasure  and  diversion  to  watch  these  fair  ladies  at  the 
windows  and  take  delight  of  their  beauty  than  to  listen 
to  the  talk  of  a  peevish  old  man  like  me,  even  though  he 
should  be  talking  of  some  great  achievement  and  success 
to  redound  to  your  advantage."  On  this  the  Cardinal, 
who  had  no  lack  of  ready  wit  and  memory,  did  repeat 
to  him  word  for  word  all  he  had  said,  leaving  the  good 
old  man  excellently  well  pleased  with  him,  and  full  of 
wonder  and  esteem,  seeing  that  for  all  his  feasting  of 
his  eyes  on  the  fair  ladies  of  Venice,  he  had  neither 
forgot  nor  neglected  aught  of  all  he  had  said  to  him. 

Any  man  which  hath  seen  the  Court  of  our  French 

[265] 


rfa1toW*W«W*Y««V«riW«M^^ 


;iivg<sv^i>8a^g*ii^i^£i^4i^i^^ 


Kings,  Francis  I.,  Henri  II.,  and  other  Sovereigns  his 
sons,  will  freely  allow,  whosoever  he  be  and  though  he 
have  seen  all  the  world,  he  hath  never  beheld  aught  so  fair 
and  admirable  as  the  ladies  which  did  frequent  their 
Court  and  that  of  the  Queens  and  Princesses,  their  wives, 
mothers  and  sisters.  Yet  a  still  fairer  sight  would  he 
have  seen,  say  some,  if  only  the  grandsire  of  Master  Gon- 
nin  had  yet  been  alive,  who  by  dint  of  his  contrivances, 
illusions,  witchcrafts  and  enchantments  could  have  shown 
the  same  all  undressed  and  stript  naked,  as  they  say  he 
did  once  in  a  private  company  at  the  behest  of  King 
Francis.  For  indeed  he  was  a  man  very  expert  and  subtile 
in  his  art  of  sorcery ;  whose  grandson,  the  which  we  have 
ourselves  seen,  knew  naught  at  all  in  this  sort  to  be  com- 
pared with  him. 

This  sight  I  ween  would  be  as  agreeable  and  diverting  as 
was  of  yore  that  of  the  Egyptian  women  at  Alexandria,  on 
occasion  of  the  reception  and  welcoming  of  their  great 
god  Apis,  to  greet  whom  they  were  used  to  go  forth  in 
great  state,  and  lifting  their  gowns,  bodices  and  shifts,  and 
tucking  up  the  same  as  high  as  ever  they  could,  did  show 
the  god  themselves  right  out.  If  any  will  see  the  tale,  let 
him  read  Alexander  ab  Alexandro,  in  the  6th  book  of  his 
Dies  Joviales.  I  think  such  a  sight  must  indeed  have 
been  a  right  agreeable  one,  for  in  those  days  the  ladies 
of  Alexandria  were  exceeding  fair,  as  they  are  still  to 
this  day. 

Doubtless  the  old  and  ugly  women  did  in  like  wise ;  but 
there!  what  matter?  The  eye  should  never  strain  but 
after  what  is  fair  and  comely,  and  avoid  the  foul  and 
unlovely  all  it  may. 

In  Switzerland,  men  and  women  do  meet  promiscuously 

[266] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


tt)84im>s^a«<it^tg<ita<^ 


in  the  baths,  hot  and  cold,  without  doing  any  dishonest 
deed,  but  are  satisfied  with  putting  a  linen  cloth  in  front 
of  them.  If  this  be  pretty  loose,  well!  we  may  see  some- 
thing, mayhap  agreeable  or  mayhap  not,  according  as 
our  companion  is  fair  or  foul. 

Before  ending  this  part  of  my  discourse,  I  will  add  yet 
one  word  more.  Just  think  again  to  what  sore  tempta- 
tions were  exposed  the  young  lords,  knights  and  nobles, 
plebeians  and  other  men  of  Rome,  and  what  delectation  of 
the  eye  they  did  enjoy  in  ancient  times  on  the  day  when 
was  kept  the  feast  of  Flora  at  Rome.  This  Flora,  'tis 
said,  was  the  most  engaging  and  successful  courtesan 
that  did  ever  practise  harlotry  at  Rome,  or  in  any  other 
city.  And  what  did  yet  more  recommend  her  herein  was 
the  fact  she  was  of  a  good  house  and  noble  lineage;  for 
dames  of  such  high  sort  do  naturally  please  the  more, 
and  to  go  with  such  doth  afford  greater  gratification. 

Thus  the  lady  Flora  had  this  excellence  and  advantage 
over  Lai's,  seeing  the  latter  would  give  herself  to  any  like 
a  common  strumpet,  but  Flora  to  great  folk  only.  And 
indeed  she  had  this  writing  put  up  at  the  entering  in  of 
her  door,  "Kings,  Princes,  Dictators,  Consuls,  Censors, 
Pontifices,  Quagstors,  Ambassadors,  and  other  the  like 
great  Lords,  enter;  but  no  other." 

Lai's  did  ever  ask  payment  beforehand,  but  Flora  never, 
saying  she  did  act  so  with  great  folk  to  the  end  they  might 
likewise  act  by  her  as  great  and  illustrious  men  should,  and 
also  that  a  woman  of  much  beauty  and  high  lineage  will 
ever  be  esteemed  as  she  doth  value  herself.  So  would  she 
take  naught  but  what  was  freely  given  her,  declaring 
every  gentle  dame  should  do  pleasure  to  her  lover  for 

[267] 


SSSiQSSZsB; 


'4\iiY»Aiy»\itow»w^ir«\tt*ir^^^ 


<fl^!.^l^!^^[»|*U^I>»^^l^l^i^ 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


love's  sake,  and  not  for  avarice,  for  that  all  things  have 
their  price  save  and  except  true  love  alone. 

In  a  word,  she  did  in  her  day  so  excellently  and  sweetly 
practise  love,  and  did  win  her  such  gallant  lovers,  that 
whenever  she  did  quit  her  lodging  now  and  again  to  walk 
abroad  in  the  city,  there  was  talk  of  her  enough  to  last  a 
month,  as  well  for  her  beauty,  her  fair  and  rich  attire, 
her  gallant  bearing  and  engaging  mien,  as  for  the  ample 
suite  of  courtiers  and  lovers  and  great  lords  which  went 
with  her,  and  did  follow  and  attend  her  like  veritable 
slaves, — an  honour  she  did  take  with  no  ill  grace.  And 
ambassadors  from  foreign  lands,  when  they  did  return  to 
their  own  country,  would  ever  find  more  delight  in  tales 
of  the  beauty  and  wondrous  excellence  of  the  divine  Flora 
than  in  describing  the  greatness  of  the  Roman  State. 
And  above  all  would  they  extol  her  generosity,  a  thing 
contrary  to  the  common  bias  of  suchlike  dames;  but 
then  she  was  out  of  the  common  altogether,  seeing  she 
was  of  noble  origin. 

Eventually  she  did  die  so  rich  and  opulent  that  the 
worth  of  her  money,  furniture  and  jewels  were  enough 
to  rebuild  the  walls  of  Rome,  and  furthermore  to  free 
the  State  of  debt.  She  did  make  the  Roman  People  her 
heir  in  chief ;  and  in  memory  thereof  was  erected  at  Rome 
a  very  sumptuous  Temple,  which  was  called  from  her 
name  the  Florianum. 

The  first  Festival  ever  the  Emperor  Galba  did  celebrate 
was  that  of  the  fond  Flora,  at  the  which  'twas  allowed  all 
Roman  men  and  women  to  do  every  sort  of  debauchery, 
dissoluteness,  abomination  and  extravagance  they  chose 
and  could  imagine.  Indeed  she  was  deemed  the  most  re- 

[268] 


r/8flt^i^l^r^>8<«?islt?8vlt?i<lty«rtr?^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


ligious  and  most  gallant  dame,  which  on  that  day  did  best 
play  the  dissolute,  debauched  and  abandoned  wanton. 

Think  of  it !  Never  a  fiscaigne  ('tis  a  lascivious  dance 
the  loose  women  and  Moorish  slave-girls  dance  on  Sun- 
days at  Malta  publicly  in  the  open  square),  nor  saraband 
did  come  near  these  Floralia  for  naughtiness;  and  never 
a  movement  or  wanton  posture  or  provocative  gesture  or 
lascivious  twist  and  twirl  did  these  Roman  dames  omit. 
Nay!  the  more  dissolute  and  extravagant  the  figures  she 
did  devise,  the  more  gallant  and  gay  was  deemed  the  per- 
former ;  for  the  Romans  did  hold  this  creed  that  the  more 
wanton  and  lecherous  the  gesture  and  carriage  wherewith 
a  woman  did  approach  the  Temple  of  this  goddess,  the 
more  like  was  she  to  win  the  same  charms  and  opulence 
Flora  herself  had  enjoyed. 

Verily  a  fine  creed,  and  a  fine  mode  of  solemnizing  a 
festival !  but  remember  they  were  but  Pagans.  Well !  little 
doubt  there  was  never  a  sort  of  naughtiness  they  did  fail 
to  bethink  them  of,  and  that  for  long  beforehand  these 
worthy  dames  would  be  a-studying  of  their  lessons,  just 
as  our  own  countrywomen  will  set  to  work  to  learn  a  ballet, 
and  would  devote  all  their  heart  and  soul  to  these  things. 
Then  the  young  men,  and  the  old  ones  too,  would  be  no 
less  eager  to  look  on  and  behold  their  quaint  grimacings 
and  wanton  tricks.  If  such  a  show  could  be  held  in  our 
days,  folks  would  be  right  glad  to  profit  by  the  same  in 
every  sense ;  and  to  be  present  at  such  a  sight,  the  public 
would  verily  crowd  itself  to  death! 

Further  details  let  each  imagine  for  himself;  I  leave 
the  task  to  our  merry  gallants.  Let  any  that  is  fain, 
read  Suetonius,  as  also  Pausanias  in  Greek  and  Manilius  in 
Latin,  in  the  books  they  have  writ  concerning  illustrious, 

[269] 


Bfw^yfflgfflggBygBrwgKB^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


amorous  and  famous  ladies,  and  he  will  learn  the  whole  in 
full. 

This  one  more  story,  and  then  an  end.  We  read  how 
the  Lacedaemonians  set  forth  once  to  lay  siege  to  Messene" ; 
but  the  Messenians  were  beforehand  with  them.  For  they 
did  sally  out  upon  the  enemy,  some  of  them,  whilst  the 
rest  did  make  all  haste  and  away  to  Lacedaemon,  thinking 
to  surprise  their  town  and  pillage  it,  while  the  Spartans 
were  occupied  before  Messene.  They  were  however  valor- 
ously  repelled  and  driven  off  by  the  women  which  had  been 
left  behind.  Hearing  of  their  design,  the  Lacedaemonians 
did  turn  about  and  make  their  way  back  toward  their 
own  city.  But  from  a  long  way  off  they  did  make  out 
their  women  all  armed,  who  had  already  driven  off  the 
enemy  whose  attack  on  the  city  they  had  dreaded.  Then 
did  the  said  women  straightway  inform  them  of  all,  and 
relate  their  victory, — the  news  whereof  did  so  delight 
them  they  did  set  to  on  the  spot  to  kiss,  fondle  and  caress 
the  victors.  In  such  wise  that,  forgetting  all  shame  and 
without  even  waiting  to  take  off  their  harness,  neither 
men  nor  women,  they  did  gallantly  do  the  thing  with  them 
on  the  very  spot  where  they  had  met  them  first.  Then 
were  things  to  be  seen  not  usual  in  War,  and  a  right  pleas- 
ant rattle  and  tinkle  of  arms  and  armour  and  the  like 
to  make  itself  heard.  In  memory  whereof  they  did  have 
built  a  temple  and  statue  to  the  goddess  Venus,  under  the 
title  of  the  Armed  Venus,  unlike  all  other  images  of  the 
goddess,  which  do  always  represent  her  naked.  A  merry 
tale  of  a  merry  encounter,  and  a  happy  idea  to  depict 
Venus  armed,  and  call  her  by  that  title! 

'Tis  no  uncommon  sight  among  men  of  arms,  especially 
at  the  taking  of  towns  by  assault,  to  see  soldiers  fully 

[270] 


y*w^ifoW^ir?^ir^r?afly«W«mxif?8vir^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

armed  enjoying  women,  having  neither  the  time  nor  pa- 
tience to  disarm  before  satisfying  their  lust  and  appetite, 
so  fierce  and  eager  are  they.  But  to  see  soldier  and 
woman  both  armed  in  cohabitation  together  is  a  thing 
seldom  seen. 

Well,  well!  enough!  we  must  needs  make  an  end, — 
albeit  I  could  have  filled  out  this  discourse  to  more  ample 
length  by  not  a  few  other  examples,  had  I  not  feared  to 
seem  over  wanton,  and  incur  an  ill  repute  of  naughtiness. 

However,  after  so  much  praise  of  fair  ladies,  I  do  feel 
me  bound  to  repeat  the  words  of  a  Spaniard,  who  one 
day  wishing  ill  to  a  woman,  did  describe  her  in  very  proper 
terms  to  me  thus : 

Senor,  vieja  es  como  la  lampada  azeytunada  d'iglesia,  y 
de  hechura  del  armario,  largo,  y  desvayada,  el  color  y  gesto 
como  mascara  mal  pintada,  el  talle  como  una  campana  o 
mola  de  el  andar  y  vision  d'una  antigua  fantasma  de  la 
noche,  que  tanto  tuviese  encontrar-la  de  noche,  como  ver 
una  mandragora.  lesus!  lesus!  Dios  me  libre  de  su  mal 
encuentro!  No  se  content  a  de  tener  en  su  casa  por  hues- 
ped  al  provisor  del  obisbo,  ni  se  contenta  con  la  demasiada 
conversacion  del  vicario  ni  del  guardian,  ni  de  la  amistad 
antigua  del  dean,  smo  que  agora  de  nuevo  ha  tornado  al 
que  pide  para  las  animas  del  purgatorio,  para  acabar  su 
negra  vida; — "Sir !  look  at  her !  She  is  like  an  old,  greasy 
Church  lamp.  Form  and  shape  are  those  of  a  great 
aumry,  all  mis-shapen  and  ill  made;  complexion  and  fea- 
tures like  a  badly  drawn  mask;  figure  as  shapely  as  a 
monastery  bell  or  a  great  millstone.  Her  face  is  like 
an  old  idol;  her  look  and  gait  like  an  antic  ghost  that 
walks  by  night.  I  should  be  as  sore  afraid  to  meet  her 
in  the  dark  as  to  face  a  horrid  mandrake.  The  good 

[271] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gjyii&aasg&giMai^^ 

Jesus  keep  me  from  such  an  encounter!  The  Bishop's 
Ordinary  is  her  constant  guest,  but  she  is  not  satisfied; 
the  garrulous  Vicar  and  the  good  old  Dean  are  her  oldest 
friends,  but  she  is  not  content.  She  must  needs  entangle 
now  the  Pardoner  for  poor  souls  in  Purgatory,  to  com- 
plete the  infamy  of  her  black  and  odious  life." 

Observe  how  the  Spaniard,  which  hath  so  well  described 
the  thirty  beauties  of  a  fair  lady  (have  I  not  quoted  them 
above,  in  this  same  Discourse?),  can,  when  he  so  wills, 
abuse  the  sex  with  the  like  gusto. 


[272] 


THIRD  DISCOURSE 

tnc    oeotttu    ol  a  tine,    lea,   ana  tne. 
me   aomc  aotn 


1. 

|MONG  many  and  sundry  beauties  the  which 
I  have  at  divers  times  known  us  courtiers  to 
praise,  and  which  are  right  well  adapted 
to  attract  love,  one  of  the  highest  esteemed 
is  a  fine  leg  on  a  fine  woman.  Many  fair  ladies  have  I 
known  take  great  pride  therein,  and  use  great  pains  to 
have  and  to  keep  the  same  beautiful.  Amongst  others 
I  have  heard  tell  of  a  noble  Princess  of  the  great  world, 
and  one  that  I  did  myself  know,  which  did  cherish  one 
of  her  ladies  above  all  the  rest,  and  did  favour  her  beyond 
all,  for  this  only  because  she  could  draw  on  her  mistress' 
hose  so  close  and  tight,  and  arrange  them  so  cleverly 
to  fit  the  leg,  and  fasten  the  garter  so  prettily, — better 
than  any  other.  For  this  only  reason  she  gat  great  pre- 
ferment at  her  hands,  and  even  did  win  considerable 
wealth.  Now  in  view  of  all  this  care  she  took  to  keep  her 
leg  in  such  good  trim,  we  may  be  very  sure  'twas  not  to 
hide  the  same  under  her  petticoats  or  under  skirts  or 
frock,  but  to  make  display  thereof  at  whiles  with  fine 
drawers  of  cloth  of  gold  and  silver,  or  other  the  like  rich 

[273] 


fcW^iy4N^»Y»/w:»Air/iYir/w^^ 


;g^:r?WniggjS£i/ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


stuff,  very  prettily  and  daintily  made,  which  she  did 
commonly  wear.  For  verily  a  woman  taketh  not  such 
pleasure  in  her  body  without  being  fain  to  give  others  a 
share  also  in  the  sight,  yea!  and  the  enjoyment  thereof. 

Moreover  this  lady  could  not  make  excuse,  saying  'twas 
all  done  to  pleasure  her  husband,  as  the  most  part  of 
women,  and  even  of  old  women,  will  ever  declare,  whenas 
they  do  make  themselves  so  seductive  and  gay,  though 
they  be  quite  elderly ;  for  she  was  a  widow.  True  it  is  in 
her  husband's  lifetime  she  had  done  the  same,  and  would 
not  leave  off  the  habit  afterward,  merely  because  she 
had  lost  him. 

I  have  known  many  fair  and  honourable  ladies,  both 
wives  and  maids,  which  are  no  less  painstaking  thus  to 
keep  their  fine  legs  in  well  cared  for,  seemly  and  attrac- 
tive guise.  And  very  right  they  be  so  to  do;  for  truly 
there  is  more  wanton  seduction  doth  lie  therein  than  you 
would  readily  suppose. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  very  great  lady,  of  the  days  of 
King  Francis,  and  a  right  fair  dame,  who  having  broken 
a  leg  and  had  the  same  set,  did  after  find  'twas  ill  done, 
and  the  limb  was  left  all  twisted.  So  stout  of  heart  was 
she,  that  she  did  make  the  bone-setter  break  it  afresh,  for 
to  restore  it  to  its  right  shape  as  before,  and  make  it  as 
fine  and  straight  as  ever.  Hereat  a  certain  lady  did 
express  no  little  surprise;  but  another  fair  lady,  and  a 
well  experienced  one,  did  answer  thus  and  said,  "Ah!  I 
see  plainly  you  know  not  what  amorous  virtue  a  fine 
leg  hath  in  it." 

I  knew  in  former  days  a  very  fair  and  honourable 
damsel  of  the  great  world,  who  being  much  in  love  with  a 
great  Lord,  for  to  attract  him  to  her  and  by  way  of  try- 

[274] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ing  some  good  device  to  win  him  to  her, — a  design  wherein 
she  could  never  succeed,  one  day  being  in  a  wooded  ave- 
nue and  seeing  him  approach,  did  make  a  pretense  as 
though  her  garter  were  coming  down.  So  withdrawing 
a  little  on  one  side,  she  did  lift  up  her  leg,  and  began  to 
pull  up  her  stocking  and  re-adjust  her  garter.  The  great 
lord  did  note  it  all  well,  and  found  her  leg  an  exceeding 
fine  one.  Indeed  he  did  lose  his  head  so  completely  that 
this  sight  of  her  did  work  more  effect  on  him  than  ever 
her  face  had  done,  for  he  did  think  to  himself  how  that 
two  such  fine  columns  must  needs  support  a  very  fine 
building.  And  later  he  did  admit  as  much  to  his  mistress, 
who  afterward  did  with  him  as  she  would.  A  noteworthy 
device  truly,  and  a  pretty  bit  of  love  practice ! 

I  have  heard  speak  likewise  of  a  fair  and  honourable 
lady,  and  one  especially  witty  and  of  a  gay  good  humour, 
who  one  day,  when  her  chamber  valet  was  a-drawing  on 
of  her  hose,  did  ask  him  if  this  did  not  put  him  in  heat, 
temptation  and  concupiscence ; *  nay !  she  put  it  yet  more 
plainly,  and  said  the  plain  word  right  out.  The  valet, 
thinking  to  please  and  for  the  respect  he  bare  his  mis- 
tress, did  answer  her,  No! — At  this  she  did  of  a  sudden 
lift  her  hand  and  gave  him  a  sound  cuff  on  the  head, 
crying  out,  "Begone  with  you!  you  shall  never  serve  me 
more.  You  are  a  simpleton,  and  I  do  give  you  notice 
from  this  day." 

There  be  many  young  ladies'  valets  nowadays  which 
be  not  so  self-restrained  at  the  rising  of  their  mistresses 
from  bed  and  in  the  dressing  of  them  and  putting  on 
of  their  footgear.  Moreover  many  a  gentleman  would 
have  found  it  hard  to  act  thus,  seeing  so  fair  a  treat 
spread  out  before  his  eyes. 

[275] 


srasragraiffwwfflggBTSi^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

mmafegii^iByaiyaiyaiy^ 

'Tis  not  only  in  our  own  day  men  have  esteemed  the 
beauty  of  fine  legs  and  pretty  feet  (for  'tis  one  and  the 
same  thing;  but  in  the  time  of  the  old  Romans  likewise 
we  do  read  how  Lucius  Vitellius,  father  of  the  Emperor 
Vitellius,  being  very  sore  smit  with  love  for  Messalina 
and  desiring  to  be  in  favour  with  her  husband  by  her 
means,  did  one  day  beseech  her  to  do  him  the  honour  of 
granting  him  a  boon.  The  Empress  asked  him,  "What 
boon?" — "  'Tis  this,  Madam,"  he  replied,  "that  you  be 
pleased  one  day  to  suffer  me  to  take  off  your  shoes." 
Messalina,  who  was  ever  full  of  courtesy  for  her  subjects, 
could  not  refuse  him  this  favour.  Then  he,  after  remov- 
ing her  shoes,  did  keep  one  of  them,  and  bore  the  same 
always  about  with  him  betwixt  his  shirt  and  his  skin,  kiss- 
ing it  as  oft  as  ever  he  had  opportunity,  in  this  wise 
worshipping  his  lady's  pretty  feet  in  the  guise  of  her 
slippers,  forasmuch  as  he  could  not  have  at  his  disposal 
the  foot  itself  nor  the  fine  leg  appertaining  thereto. 

Then  you  have  that  English  Lord  in  the  Cent  Nouvelles 
of  the  Queen  of  Navarre,  which  did  in  like  wise  wear  his 
mistress'  glove  by  his  side,  and  that  so  richly  adorned. 
Again  I  have  known  many  gentlemen  which,  before 
donning  of  their  silk  stockings,  would  beg  their  fair  ladies 
and  mistresses  to  try  on  the  same  and  wear  them  the 
first  a  week  or  ten  days,  more  or  less ;  after  which  them- 
selves would  wear  them  in  great  respect  and  high  content 
of  mind  and  body. 

I  knew  once  a  Lord  of  the  great  world,  who  being  at 
sea  with  a  very  great  lady  and  one  of  the  fairest  of 
womankind,  had  the  happiness,  seeing  he  was  travelling 
with  her  through  his  country  and  as  her  women  were 
all  ill  of  seasickness  and  so  in  very  ill  case  to  serve  her, 

[276] 


SSJSSFiTWffWft^iiffft^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


JtV»tyj^84l>84lX8/Jt^i^l^Jt^l^^ 


to  be  obliged  to  put  her  to  bed  with  his  own  hands  every 
night  and  get  her  up  in  the  morning.  But  in  so  doing 
and  in  putting  on  of  her  footgear  and  taking  off  the 
same,  he  did  grow  so  much  enamoured  as  to  be  well  nigh 
desperate,  albeit  she  was  his  near  kinswoman.  For  verily 
the  temptation  herein  was  too  exceeding  great,  and  there 
doth  not  exist  the  man  so  mortified  in  spirit  but  he  is 
something  moved  by  the  same. 

We  do  read  of  the  wife  of  Nero,  Poppaea  Sabina,  which 
was  the  favourite  of  all  his  wives  and  mistresses,  how 
that,  beside  being  the  most  lavish  of  women  in  all  sorts 
of  superfluities,  ornaments,  embellishments,  gawds  and 
costly  weeds,  she  did  wear  shoes  and  slippers  all  of  pure 
gold.  This  luxury  was  not  like  to  make  her  hide  her 
foot  and  leg  from  Nero,  her  cuckold  mate;  nor  yet  did 
he  enjoy  the  sole  delight  and  pleasure  of  the  sight,  for 
there  was  many  another  lover  had  the  same  privilege. 
Well  might  she  display  this  extravagance  for  herself, 
seeing  she  was  used  to  have  her  horses'  hoofs,  which  did 
draw  her  chariot,  shod  with  shoes  of  silver. 

Saint  Jerome  doth  reprove  in  very  severe  terms  a  lady 
of  his  time  which  was  over  careful  of  the  beauty  of  her 
leg,  using  these  exact  words:  "With  her  little  brown 
boot,  well  fitting  and  well  polished,  she  doth  decoy  young 
men,  and  the  tinkle  of  her  shoe-buckles  is  a  snare  unto 
them."  No  doubt  this  was  some  dainty  fashion  of  foot- 
gear in  vogue  in  those  days,  that  was  over  luxurious  and 
ill  becoming  to  modest  women.  The  wearing  of  foot-gear 
of  the  sort  is  to  this  present  day  in  use  among  Turkish 
ladies,  and  those  the  best-born  and  most  virtuous. 

I  have  seen  the  question  raised  and  discussed  which  is 
the  more  seductive  and  alluring,  the  naked  leg,  or  the  leg 

[277] 


BragTfflg^Brag?^ffiy«i?fSffi^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


l^i»4i^l^^ 


covered  and  stockinged?  Many  hold  there  is  naught  like 
the  natural  article,  when  'tis  well  made  and  perfectly 
turned,  according  to  the  points  of  beauty  enumerated 
by  the  Spaniard  I  did  quote  from  a  little  above,  and  is 
white,  fair  and  smooth,  and  appropriately  displayed  in  a 
fine  bed.  For  if  it  be  otherwise  and  a  lady  were  fain  to 
show  her  leg  all  bare  in  walking  and  so  on,  and  with  shoes 
on  her  feet,  albeit  she  should  be  the  most  magnificently 
dressed  out  possible,  yet  would  she  never  be  deemed  be- 
comingly apparelled.  Nor  would  she  really  and  truly 
look  so  fair  as  one  that  should  be  properly  equipped  with 
pretty  hose  of  coloured  silk  or  else  of  white  thread,  such 
as  be  made  at  Florence  for  summer  wear,  and  which  I 
have  often  seen  our  ladies  wearing  in  former  times,  before 
the  great  vogue  we  do  now  see  of  silk  stockings.  But  the 
hose  must  ever  be  drawn  close  and  stretched  as  tight  as  a 
drum  and  so  fastened  with  clasps  or  otherwise,  according 
to  the  preference  and  good  pleasure  of  the  wearer. 
Further  must  the  foot  be  fitted  with  a  pretty  white  shoe, 
or  a  slipper  of  black  velvet  or  velvet  of  some  other  colour, 
or  else  a  neat  little  high-heeled  shoe,  cut  to  perfection, 
such  as  I  have  seen  a  certain  very  noble  lady  of  the  great 
world  wear,  of  such  sort  that  naught  could  well  be  better 
or  more  dainty. 

Wherein  again  the  beauty  of  the  foot  must  be  con- 
sidered. If  this  be  too  large,  'tis  not  pretty;  but  an  if 
it  be  too  tiny,  it  doth  give  a  naughty  hint  and  ill  notion 
of  its  wearer.  Rather  it  should  be  of  a  middling  size,  as 
I  have  seen  sundry  which  have  been  exceeding  appetizing, 
above  all  when  their  owners  did  thrust  the  same  half  in, 
half  out,  and  just  show  them  beneath  their  petticoat,  and 
make  them  shift  and  quiver  in  little  tricksome,  wanton 

[278] 


RftmywffigwfflysflFgBFag^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

jgai^iMiMi^^-kgi*^^^ 

movements,  being  shod  with  a  pretty  little  high-heeled 
shoe,  thinly  soled,  or  else  a  white  slipper,  pointed,  not 
square-toed  in  front;  but  the  white  is  the  most  daintiest. 
But  these  little  high-heeled  shoes  and  pumps  be  for  big, 
tall  women,  not  for  the  short  and  dwarfish  ones,  which 
do  have  their  great  horse-shoes  with  soles  two  feet  thick. 
One  had  as  lief  as  these  see  a  giant's  club  on  the  swing, 
or  a  fool's  bawble. 

Another  thing  a  woman  should  beware  of  is  the  dis- 
guising her  sex  and  dressing  herself  as  a  boy,  whether 
for  a  masquerade  or  for  any  other  occasion.  For  so 
attired,  though  she  have  the  finest  leg  in  the  world,  yet 
doth  she  look  ill-shapen  in  that  part,  seeing  all  things 
have  their  proper  setting  and  suitable  array.  Thus  in 
falsifying  of  their  sex,  they  do  altogether  disfigure  their 
beauty  and  natural  grace. 

This  is  why  'tis  not  becoming  for  a  woman  to  dress 
as  a  boy  for  to  display  her  charms  to  the  more  advantage, 
— unless  indeed  it  be  merely  to  don  a  dainty,  gallant  cap 
with  the  Guelf  or  Ghibelline  feather  stuck  therein,  or 
perched  above  the  brow,  in  such  wise  to  be  distinctively 
neither  male  nor  female,  after  the  fashion  our  ladies  have 
of  late  adopted.  Yet  even  this  doth  not  suit  all  women 
equally  well;  the  face  must  be  saucy  and  of  just  the 
right  expression  to  carry  it  off,  as  we  have  seen  in  the 
case  of  our  Queen  Marguerite  of  Navarre.  Her  it  did 
suit  so  well  that,  seeing  her  face  only  when  she  was  so 
bedecked,  no  man  could  tell  which  sex  she  came  the  nearer 
to,  whether  she  more  looked  the  handsome  boy  or  the 
beautiful  woman  she  really  was. 

This  doth  remind  me  of  another  lady  of  the  great 
world,  and  one  I  knew,  which  wishing  to  imitate  the  same 

[279] 


.     M()«l^c1MKfo8rtrltf71f1^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ajSaatyiiiyiifeafeaifej^ 

mode  when  about  twenty-five  years  of  age,  and  altogether 
over  tall  and  big  statured,  a  great  masculine  looking 
woman  and  but  lately  come  to  Court,  and  thinking  to 
play  the  gallant  dame,  did  one  day  appear  so  attired 
in  the  ball-room.  Nor  did  she  fail  to  be  much  stared  at 
and  rallied  not  a  little  on  her  costume.  Even  the  King 
himself  did  pronounce  his  judgement  thereon,  for  indeed 
he  was  one  of  the  wittiest  men  in  his  realm,  and  declared 
she  did  resemble  a  mountebank's  wench,  or  still  better 
one  of  those  painted  figures  of  women  that  are  imported 
from  Flanders  and  set  up  in  front  of  the  chimney-pieces 
in  inns  and  taverns  with  German  flutes  at  their  lips.  In 
fact  he  went  so  far  as  to  have  her  told  that  if  she  did 
appear  any  more  in  that  dress  and  get-up,  he  would  order 
her  to  bring  her  flute  with  her  for  to  play  a  merry  greet- 
ing to  the  noble  company  withal  and  divert  them  with 
her  music.  Such  cruel  sport  did  he  make  of  her,  as  well 
because  the  said  head-gear  did  so  ill  suit  her  as  for  a 
grudge  he  had  against  her  husband. 

So  we  see  such  masquerading  doth  not  suit  all  ladies 
alike.  For  when  this  same  Queen  of  Navarre,  the  fairest 
woman  in  all  the  world,  was  pleased  to  adopt  a  further 
disguise  beyond  the  cap,  she  did  never  appear  so  fair 
as  she  really  was,  nor  ever  would  have.  And  indeed  what 
shape  could  she  have  taken  more  beauteous  than  her  own, 
seeing  there  is  none  better  she  could  have  borrowed  from 
any  in  all  the  world?  And  if  she  had  chose  to  show  her 
leg,  the  which  I  have  heard  sundry  of  her  women  describe 
as  the  finest  and  best  ever  known,  otherwise  than  in  its 
proper  form,  and  appearing  well  and  fitly  stockinged  and 
shod  below  her  fine  clothes,  never  would  it  have  been 
deemed  so  handsome  as  it  was.  Thus  with  a  due  regard 

[280] 


Mwr«tir»a«Mrfc\ir78flrfcw^&^ 


;a»w»»§tit)«»wwtvwii>^ 


to  surroundings  doth  it  behove  fair  ladies  to  show  and 
make  display  of  their  beauties. 


2. 


]HAVE  read  in  a  Spanish  book  entitled  El 
Viage  del  Principe,  or  "The  Prince's  Voy- 
age," to  wit  that  which  the  King  of  Spain  x 
did  make  in  his  Province  of  the  Low  Coun- 
tries, in  the  time  of  the  Emperor  Charles  his  father,  how 
among  other  fine  receptions  he  did  meet  with  among  his 
rich  and  wealthy  cities  of  those  parts,  was  one  of  the 
Queen  of  Hungary  in  the  fair  city  of  Bains,  which  did 
give  rise  to  a  proverb,  Mas  brava  que  las  fiestas  de  Bains, 
— "Finer  than  the  festivities  of  Bains." 

Among  other  magnificent  shows  was  this.  During  the 
siege  of  a  sham  castle  that  was  erected,  and  besieged  in 
form  as  a  place  of  war,  (a  description  of  the  same  is 
given  elsewhere  in  my  Works),  she  did  one  day  give  an 
entertainment,  notable  among  all  others,  to  the  Emperor 
her  good  brother,  the  Queen  Eleanor  her  sister,  the  King 
her  nephew,  and  all  the  Lords,  nights  and  ladies  of  the 
Court.  Toward  the  end  of  the  show  did  appear  a  lady, 
accompanied  by  six  Oreads,  or  mountain  nymphs,  clad 
in  the  antique  mode,  in  the  costume  of  nymphs  of  the 
Virgin  Huntress,  all  attired  in  cloth  of  silver  and  green 
and  crescents  on  their  brow  all  beset  with  diamonds  in 
such  wise  that  they  seemed  to  imitate  the  brilliancy  of  the 
moon,  and  carrying  each  her  bow  and  arrow  in  hand, 
and  rich  quivers  at  their  side,  their  shoes  in  like  wise  of 
cloth  of  silver,  well  fitting  and  well  put  on  so  as  that  they 
could  not  be  better.  And  so  caparisoned  they  did  enter 

[281] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a&aaytiii^iiiy^y^yiifeffli^^^ 

the  great  hall,  leading  their  dogs  after  them,  and  did  pre- 
sent to  the  Emperor  and  laid  on  the  table  before  him  all 
sorts  of  game  in  pasties,  the  which  they  had  taken  in  their 
hunting. 

Thereafter  did  come  Pales,  the  goddess  of  shepherds, 
with  six  nymphs  of  the  meadows,  clad  all  in  white  of  cloth 
of  silver,  with  furniture  of  the  same  on  their  heads  all 
beset  with  pearls,  wearing  likewise  hosen  of  the  same 
material  with  white  slippers ;  and  these  did  bring  all  sorts 
of  milk  confections,  and  laid  the  same  before  the  Emperor. 

Then  for  the  third  band,  came  the  goddess  Pomona, 
with  her  Naiads,  or  water  nymphs,  which  did  bring  the 
last  offering  of  fruits.  And  this  goddess  was  the  daugh- 
ter of  Donna  Beatrix  Pacecho,  Comtesse  d'Autremont, 
lady-in-waiting  of  Queen  Eleanor,  a  child  at  that  time 
of  some  nine  years  old.  She  it  is  that  is  now  wife  of  the 
Admiral  de  Chastillon,  he  having  wedded  her  as  his  second 
wife.  This  pretty  maid  and  goddess  did  bring  in,  she 
and  her  companions,  all  sorts  of  fruits  such  as  could  be 
found  at  that  season,  for  it  was  Summer  time,  the  richest 
and  rarest  procurable,  and  did  present  the  same  to  the 
Emperor  with  a  set  speech  so  eloquent,  so  fine  and  pro- 
nounced with  so  sweet  a  grace  that  she  did  win  the  great 
love  and  admiration  of  the  Emperor  and  all  the  company 
there  assembled,  her  youth  being  taken  in  account,  that 
from  that  day  forward  'twas  foretold  of  all  that  she  would 
be  what  she  is  to-day,  a  fair,  wise,  honourable,  virtuous, 
clever  and  witty  lady. 

She  was  similarly  attired  as  a  nymph  like  the  rest  of 
her  companions,  all  being  clad  in  cloth  of  silver  and 
white,  with  hosen  and  shoes  of  the  same,  and  their  heads 
decked  with  much  wealth  of  jewels.  But  these  were  all 

[282] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


emeralds  this  time,  to  represent  in  part  the  colour  of 
the  fruit  they  did  offer.  And  besides  the  gift  of  fruit,  she 
did  make  one  to  the  Emperor  and  the  King  of  Spain  of 
a  Tree  of  Victory  all  enamelled  in  green,  the  boughs  laden 
with  great  pearls  and  precious  stones,  right  rich  to  be- 
hold and  of  inestimable  worth  ;  also  to  the  Queen  Eleanor 
a  fan,  with  a  mirror  in  the  mid  thereof,  the  whole  gar- 
nished with  jewels  of  great  price. 

Verily  this  Princess  and  Queen  of  Hungary  did  show 
right  well  that  she  was  an  honourable  lady  in  all  points, 
and  that  her  address  and  tact  was  as  admirable  as  was 
her  skill  in  the  art  of  war.  And  indeed,  by  all  I  have 
heard  said,  the  Emperor  her  brother  did  feel  no  little 
content  and  comfort  to  have  so  honourable  a  sister  and 
so  worthy  of  him. 

Now  have  I  laid  myself  open  to  blame  and  might  fairly 
enough  be  asked  why  I  have  made  this  digression  in  the 
course  of  my  Discourse.  'Tis  to  point  out  how  that  all 
these  maids  that  did  represent  these  characters  had  been 
chose  out  and  selected  as  being  the  fairest  among  all  the 
suite  of  the  Queens  of  France  and  of  Hungary  and  of 
Madame  de  Lorraine,  —  being  Frenchwomen,  Italians, 
Flemish,  German  and  Lorrainers.  In  all  the  number  was 
no  defect  of  beauty;  and  God  knoweth  if  the  Queen  of 
Hungary  had  been  painstaking  and  exact  to  choose  such 
as  were  fairest  and  most  graceful. 

Madame  de  Fontaine-Chalandry,  who  is  yet  alive,  could 
give  us  good  assurance  of  this,  who  was  at  the  time 
maid  of  honour  of  the  Queen  Eleanor,  and  one  of  the 
fairest.  She  was  known  also  by  the  name  of  "the  fair 
Torcy,"  and  hath  told  me  the  tale  of  all  these  doings. 
And  I  have  it  for  sure  both  of  her  and  from  other 

[283] 


:/»itow*ir»Yi;fcY.rwrtr^ 


yt>W^l^l^l^lJ|*«^!W4!^^Ul«t»^ 


quarters  too  how  that  all  the  lords,  gentlemen  and  knights 
of  that  Court  did  take  their  diversion  in  looking  at  and 
examining  fine  legs,  limbs  and  pretty  little  feet  of  these 
ladies.  For  attired  thus  as  nymphs,  they  were  dressed 
in  short  gowns,  and  could  make  a  very  engaging  display, 
more  enticing  even  than  their  pretty  faces,  which  ad- 
mirers could  see  every  day,  whereas  'twas  not  so  with 
their  other  beauties.  And  so  sundry  courtiers  did  grow 
more  enamoured  by  the  sight  and  display  of  these  same 
fine  legs,  than  ever  of  their  pretty  faces,  seeing  that  atop 
of  such  fine  columns  there  be  commonly  found  fine  cor- 
nices with  their  friezes,  fine  architraves,  and  rich  capitals, 
smoothly  polished  and  curiously  carved. 

So  must  I  be  allowed  yet  another  digression,  and  to  say 
my  say  as  I  please,  now  we  be  upon  the  subject  of  shows 
and  suchlike  representations.  Almost  at  the  same  mo- 
ment as  these  noble  festivities  were  a-doing  in  the  Low 
Countries,  and  above  all  at  Bains,  on  occasion  of  the 
reception  of  the  King  of  Spain,  was  made  the  state  entry 
of  King  Henri,  on  his  way  back  from  visiting  his  province 
of  Piedmont  and  his  garrisons  there,  into  Lyons,  which 
was  of  a  surety  one  of  the  finest  and  most  triumphant 
ever  known,  as  I  have  heard  honourable  ladies  and  gentle- 
men of  the  Court  declare,  which  were  there  at  the  time. 

Well!  if  this  show  and  representation  of  Diana  and 
her  hunt  was  found  admirable  at  these  Royal  festivities 
of  the  Queen  of  Hungary,  another  was  contrived  at 
Lyons  which  was  different  again  and  still  more  lifelike. 
For  as  the  King  was  marching  along,  and  just  about  to 
reach  a  grand  obelisk  of  Classic  fashion,  on  the  right 
hand  of  his  way  he  did  actually  find  a  meadow  by  the 
side  of  the  high  road  surrounded  by  a  wall  something 

[284] 


ffffit^r/imrtrr«&8titoW4Mr/»ir^^ 


JtmV^l^tgilttS^m^mmm^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


more  than  six  feet  high,  and  the  said  meadow  within  filled 
up  with  earth  to  the  same  height.  This  had  been  regu- 
larly filled  up  with  trees  of  moderate  growth,  planted  in 
between  with  thick  undergrowth  and  many  shrubs  and 
smaller  brushwood,  as  well  as  with  a  good  supply  of  fruit 
trees.  In  this  miniature  forest  did  disport  them  many 
little  stags  all  alive,  and  fawns  and  roebuck,  though  of 
course  tame  ones.  Presently  his  Majesty  did  hear  sundry 
hunting-horns  and  trumpets  sound  softly;  and  thereupon 
instantly  did  behold  through  the  aforesaid  wood  Diana 
a-hunting  with  her  companions  and  forest  maids,  holding 
in  her  hand  a  richly  dight  Turkish  bow,  and  her  quiver 
hanging  at  her  side,  attired  in  the  costume  of  a  nymph, 
after  the  fashion  the  remains  of  Antiquity  do  yet  show 
us.  Her  body  was  clad  in  a  short  doublet  with  six  great 
round  scallops  of  black  cloth  of  gold,  strewn  with  silver 
stars,  the  sleeves  and  body  of  crimson  satin  with  border- 
ings  of  gold,  tucked  up  to  mid  thigh,  displaying  her  fine 
limb  and  pretty  leg,  and  her  sandals  of  the  antique  shape, 
set  with  pearls  embedded  in  embroideries.  Her  hair  was 
interlaced  with  heavy  strings  of  rich  pearls,  with  wealth 
of  precious  stones  and  jewels  of  price;  while  above  the 
brow  a  little  silver  crescent  was  set,  blazing  with  tiny 
little  diamonds.  For  gold  would  not  have  been  so  well, 
nor  so  true  a  representation  of  the  natural  crescent, 
which  is  clear  and  silvery. 

Her  companions  were  accoutred  in  divers  sorts  of  cos- 
tumes of  lustring  striped  with  gold,  both  wide  and  narrow 
stripes,  always  in  the  antique  mode,  as  well  as  sundry 
other  colours  of  an  antique  sort,  varied  and  intermingled 
as  well  for  curiousness  of  effect  as  for  gaiety  of  appear- 
ance. Hosen  and  shoes  were  of  satin;  their  heads  decked 

[285] 


••^AvW^gwmigmK^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


l^^l«y»S^ 


out  in  like  wise  in  the  character  of  nymphs,  with  many 
pearls  and  precious  stones. 

Some  were  leading  in  leash  sleuth-hounds,  small  grey- 
hounds, spaniels  and  other  dogs  by  cords  of  silk  white  and 
black,  the  King's  colours  which  he  bare  for  the  love  of  a 
lady  named  Diana  whom  he  loved;  others  did  go  along 
with  and  encourage  the  running  dogs,  that  were  in  full 
cry.  Others  again  did  carry  little  darts  of  hard  wood, 
the  point  gilded,  and  having  pretty  little  hanging  tassels 
of  black  and  white  silk,  and  hunting-horns  and  trumpets 
mounted  in  gold  and  silver  hanging  in  bandoleers  with 
cords  of  thread  of  silver  and  black  silk. 

And  so  soon  as  ever  they  did  perceive  the  King,  a  lion 
did  sally  forth  of  the  wood,  which  was  tamed  and  trained 
long  before  for  this,  and  did  throw  himself  at  the  feet 
of  the  said  goddess,  giving  her  welcome.  So  she,  seeing 
him  so  mansuete  and  gentle,  did  take  him  by  a  great 
rope  of  silver  cord  and  black  silk,  and  on  the  instant 
did  present  the  same  to  the  King.  Thus  coming  forward 
with  the  lion  to  the  edge  of  the  wall  of  the  meadow  border- 
ing the  road,  and  within  a  pace  or  so  of  his  Majesty, 
she  did  make  offer  to  him  of  the  beast  in  a  rhymed  stanza, 
of  the  sort  composed  in  those  days,  yet  not  so  ill  wrought 
either  or  ill  sounding.  And  according  to  this  rhyme,  the 
which  she  did  pronounce  with  a  very  good  grace  and 
sweetness,  under  the  guise  of  the  lion  so  gentle  and  well 
behaved  she  did  offer  him  his  town  of  Lyons,  now  all 
gentle,  well  behaved  and  brought  under  to  his  laws  and 
orders. 

All  this  being  said  and  done  with  a  very  sweet  grace, 
Diana  and  all  her  companions  did  make  him  an  humble 
reverence;  whereupon  having  looked  at  them  all  with  a 

[286] 


WffiftfoflSffi!!^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gJMiMLMJMPJ^&Hli^^ 

favourable  eye  and  greeted  them  graciously,  signifying 
he  had  found  their  hunting  shows  right  agreeable  and 
thanking  them  heartily,  he  did  so  part  from  them  and 
went  on  his  way  to  his  entry  into  the  city.  Now  observe 
that  this  same  Diana  and  all  her  nymphs  were  the  most 
highly  thought  on  and  fairest  wives,  widows  and  maids 
of  Lyons,  where  is  no  lack  of  such,  which  did  play  their 
mystery  so  well  and  in  such  engaging  sort  that  the  most 
part  of  the  Princes,  Lords,  gentlemen  and  courtiers  were 
exceedingly  delighted  thereat.  I  leave  you  to  judge 
whether  they  had  not  good  cause  so  to  be. 

Madame  de  Valentinois,  known  as  Diane  de  Poitiers, 
the  King's  mistress,  in  whose  name  this  hunting  was  made, 
was  not  less  well  content,  and  did  like  well  all  her  life 
long  the  good  town  of  Lyons.  And  indeed  she  was  their 
neighbour,  by  reason  of  the  Duchy  of  Valentinois  which 
is  quite  close  to  that  place. 

Well !  as  we  are  on  the  subject  of  the  pleasure  to  be 
derived  from  the  sight  of  a  fine  leg,  we  may  be  assured, 
as  I  have  heard  say,  that  not  the  King  only,  but  all  these 
Court  gallants,  did  find  a  marvellous  great  pleasure  in 
contemplating  and  gazing  at  those  of  these  fair  nymphs, 
so  gaily  attired  and  high  kilted  as  that  they  did  give  as 
much, — or  more, — temptation  to  ascend  to  a  yet  higher 
level,  as  admiration  and  reason  to  approve  so  pretty  and 
pleasantly  contrived  a  divertisement. 

However,  to  quit  our  digression  and  return  to  the 
point  at  which  we  left  our  main  subject,  I  mention  how 
we  have  seen  played  at  our  Court  and  represented  by  our 
Queens  right  graceful  ballets,  and  especially  by  the  Queen 
Mother;  yet  as  a  rule,  for  us  courtiers  we  would  be  ever 
casting  our  eyes  on  the  feet  and  legs  of  the  ladies  which 

[287] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ggHii&a&aia^iiyi!^^ 

did  take  part  in  them,  and  did  find  by  far  our  greatest 
pleasure  in  seeing  them  display  their  legs  so  agreeably, 
and  so  move  and  twinkle  their  feet  so  nimbly  as  that 
naught  could  be  better.  For  their  petticoats  and  frocks 
were  much  shorter  than  usual,  though  not  so  much  so 
as  in  the  nypmhs'  costume,  nor  so  high  as  they  should 
have  been  and  as  was  desired  of  many.  Yet  did  our  eyes 
fasten  somewhat  on  those  parts,  and  especially  when  they 
were  dancing  the  quick  step,  which  making  the  skirts  to 
flutter  up,  would  generally  show  something  or  other  pleas- 
ant to  look  at, — a  sight  that  I  have  seen  several  find 
altogether  too  much  for  them,  so  that  they  did  lose  all 
self-control  over  themselves. 

The  fair  ladies  of  Sienna,  at  the  first  beginning  of  the 
revolt  of  their  city  and  republic,  did  form  three  com- 
panies of  the  most  beautiful  and  greatest  ladies  were  in 
that  town.  Each  company  did  mount  to  a  thousand,  so 
as  the  whole  was  three  thousand  strong.  One  company 
was  clad  in  violet  lustring,  one  in  white,  and  one  in  red, 
all  being  attired  as  nymphs  with  very  short  skirts,  in  such 
wise  that  they  did  make  full  display  of  fine  limbs  and 
legs.  In  this  wise  they  did  pass  in  review  before  all  their 
fellow  townsmen  as  well  as  before  his  Grace  the  Cardinal 
of  Ferrara  and  M.  de  Termes,  Lieutenants  General  of  our 
French  King  Henri,  all  firmly  resolved  and  determined  to 
die  for  the  Republic  and  for  France,  and  all  ready  to  give 
a  hand  to  the  work  of  fortifying  the  said  city.  Indeed 
all  and  each  did  carry  a  fascine  ready  on  shoulder;  and 
did  rouse  by  their  gallantry  the  admiration  of  all.  This 
tale  I  do  set  down  in  another  place,  where  I  am  speaking 
of  high-spirited  women;  for  truly  'tis  one  of  the  finest 
exploits  was  ever  done  by  gallant  dames. 

[288] 


IglSa^teW^i^i^g^l!:^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

glS^^IOilSmaayii^li^^ 

For  the  present  I  will  content  me  with  saying  how  I 
have  heard  it  told  by  many  gentlemen  and  soldiers,  both 
French  and  foreign,  and  especially  by  sundry  of  that 
town,  that  never  aught  finer  was  seen,  seeing  they  were  all 
great  ladies  and  of  the  chiefest  families  of  that  place, 
and  each  fairer  than  another,  for  'tis  well  known  that 
beauty  is  far  from  lacking  in  that  city,  but  is  very  gen- 
eral therein.  But  if  it  were  a  fine  sight  to  behold  their 
handsome  faces,  'twas  no  less  so  to  see  and  gaze  upon 
their  handsome  limbs  and  fine  legs,  with  their  pretty  hosen 
and  shoes  well  fitting  and  well  put  on,  as  the  dames  of 
those  parts  know  right  well  how  to  do.  Then  they  did 
all  wear  their  gowns  very  short,  in  the  guise  of  nymphs, 
that  they  might  march  the  easier, — the  which  was  enough 
to  tempt  and  warm  up  the  most  chilliest  and  mortified  of 
mankind.  And  what  did  most  pleasure  the  onlookers  was 
this,  that  whereas  they  might  any  day  see  their  faces, 
they  could  not  so  behold  these  fine  and  handsome  legs  of 
theirs.  He  was  no  fool  which  did  devise  this  same  mode 
and  costume  of  nymphs,  for  it  doth  readily  afford  many 
fine  sights  and  agreeable  spectacles.  The  skirts  be  cut 
very  short,  and  are  divided  up  the  side  to  boot,  as  we  do 
yet  see  it  represented  in  the  fine  Roman  antiques,  which 
doth  still  more  flatter  the  wantonness  of  the  eye. 

But  in  our  own  day,  with  the  fair  ladies  of  Chios, 
matrons  and  maids,  what  and  how  is  it  they  be  so  at- 
tractive? Why!  truly  'tis  their  beauty  and  their  charms 
of  face  and  figure, — but  also  their  superb  fashions  of 
dress,  and  above  all  their  very  short  gowns,  which  do 
make  full  display  of  their  dainty,  well  shod  feet. 

This  doth  remind  me  how  one  time  at  Court  a  lady  of 
very  tall  and  imposing  figure,  looking  at  a  magnificent 

[289] 


^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

taiytiikffljyiiiyiiiyTgyay^^ 

and  noble  hunting  piece  in  tapestry,  wherein  Diana  and 
all  her  band  of  virgin  huntresses  were  very  naturally 
represented,  and  all  by  the  fashion  of  their  dress  did 
show  their  pretty  feet  and  fine  legs,  did  chance  to  have 
with  her  one  of  her  companions,  which  was  of  very  low 
and  small  stature,  and  who  was  likewise  diverting  herself 
along  with  the  other  in  examining  the  said  tapestry.  To 
her  she  did  say  thus:  "Ha!  ha!  little  one,  if  all  we 
women  did  dress  after  that  fashion,  you  would  be  in  a 
bad  way  and  would  lose  all  advantage,  for  your  great 
high-heeled  shoes  would  betray  you  ;  and  you  would  never 
have  such  grace  in  your  walk,  nor  such  charm  in  showing 
of  your  leg,  as  we  that  are  tall  and  stately.  You  would 
have  to  keep  close  and  scarce  show  at  all.  Give  thanks 
then  to  the  days  we  live  in  and  the  long  gowns  we  wear, 
which  be  so  favourable  to  you,  and  do  hide  your  legs 
so  conveniently.  For  indeed  with  your  great  high-heeled 
shoes  a  foot  tall,  these  be  more  like  a  cudgel  than  a 
woman's  leg.  If  a  man  had  never  a  weapon  to  fight 
withal,  he  would  but  have  to  cut  off  a  leg  and  grasp  it 
by  the  end  where  your  foot  is  shod  and  encased  in  your 
high  shoes,  and  he  would  have  a  beautiful  club  for  the 
fiercest  encounter." 

This  lady  was  very  right  in  what  she  said,  for  truly 
the  prettiest  leg  in  the  world,  if  it  be  so  imprisoned  in 
these  great,  heavy,  high-heeled  shoes,  doth  lose  its  beauty 
altogether,  seeing  this  great  club  foot  doth  cause  too 
great  a  deformity  for  anything;  for  if  a  pretty  foot 
well  shod  and  dainty  goeth  not  with  the  leg,  all  is  of  no 
avail.  Now  these  dames  which  do  adopt  these  great, 
heavy,  lumbering  high-heeled  shoes  think  no  doubt  to  em- 
bellish and  better  their  figures  and  thereby  appear  more 

[290] 


sftjffiw^ig^Mi^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


t^t^'t^l^i^l^iJigfii^i^ll^^ 


beautiful  and  be  the  more  loved;  but  on  the  other  hand 
they  do  worsen  their  fine  leg  and  foot,  which  be  surely 
in  their  natural  beauty  worth  as  much  as  a  fine  tall  figure 
that  is  but  a  sham. 

Similarly  in  time  of  yore,  a  pretty  foot  did  carry  with 
is  so  much  of  wanton  fascination,  that  many  prudish 
minded  and  chaste  Roman  ladies,  or  at  the  least  such  as 
did  feign  to  be  so, — and  even  in  our  own  day  some  do 
the  like  in  Italy  in  imitation  of  antique  morals, — do  as 
much  scruple  about  showing  this  part  in  public  as  their 
faces,  hiding  it  under  their  flowing  gowns  all  ever  they 
can,  so  that  none  may  see  it;  and  in  walking  do  go  so 
prudishly,  discreetly  and  carefully  as  that  it  never  pass- 
eth  out  from  under  their  robe. 

This  is  well  enough  for  such  as  are  trained  in  prudish 
bearing  and  respectability,  and  are  for  never  offering 
temptation;  we  must  say  this  much  for  them.  Yet  I 
ween,  an  if  they  had  their  free  choice,  they  would  make 
display  enough  both  of  foot  and  leg,  and  of  other  things 
to  boot.  Beside,  they  do  consent  to  show  the  same  to 
their  husbands,  for  all  their  hypocrisy  and  petty  scruples 
about  being  dames  of  position  and  respectability.  How- 
ever I  but  relate  the  fact  as  it  is. 

I  do  know  of  a  certain  gentleman,  a  very  gallant  and 
honourable  man,  which  only  by  having  seen  at  Rheims  at 
the  Consecration  of  the  late  King,  the  lovely  leg,  in  a 
white  silk  stocking,  of  a  great  and  very  fair  lady,  a 
widow  and  of  tall  stature,  from  underneath  those  scaf- 
folds they  erect  for  ladies  to  see  the  ceremony  from,  did 
fall  so  deep  in  love  with  her  as  that  he  grew  well  nigh 
desperate  with  passion.  Thus  what  her  handsome  face 
had  failed  to  effect,  this  her  fine  development  of  leg  did 

[291] 


WWFSST^SFSST^SFSRFSS^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


jt^t^ta&vftuaga^ 


bring  about;  though  truly  the  said  lady  did  deserve  by 
the  beauty  of  all  her  person  to  drive  an  honourable 
gentleman  to  his  death.  And  I  have  known  other  men 
too  of  the  like  humour. 

At  any  rate  for  final  word  will  I  say  this,  and  I  have 
known  the  same  to  be  held  as  an  incontrovertible  maxim 
by  many  gallant  courtiers,  my  comrades,  that  the  display 
of  a  fine  leg  and  pretty  foot  is  a  thing  most  dangerously 
apt  to  fascinate  wanton  eyes  to  love ;  and  I  wonder  much 
that  some  of  our  many  good  writers,  whether  poets  or 
others,  have  never  writ  the  praises  thereof,  as  they  have 
of  other  parts  of  fair  ladies'  bodies.  For  myself,  I  would 
have  writ  more  on  this  subject,  but  that  I  was  af eared, 
if  I  did  overmuch  belaud  these  parts  of  the  person,  I 
should  be  reproached  as  scarce  enough  heeding  the  rest. 
Beside  I  have  perforce  to  treat  of  other  matters,  and 
may  not  tarry  too  long  over  one. 

Wherefore  I  do  now  make  an  end  with  this  little  word 
of  advice:  "For  God's  sake,  Ladies,  be  not  so  careful 
to  make  you  seem  of  taller  stature  and  other  than  you 
are;  but  rather  look  to  the  beauty  of  your  legs,  the 
which  be  so  fair  and  fine,  at  any  rate  with  some  of  you. 
But  ye  do  mar  the  charm  of  them  with  those  monstrous 
high-heeled  boots  and  huge  horse-shoes  ye  do  wear. 
Doubtless  ye  do  need  such;  but  by  having  the  same  of 
such  exaggerated  size,  ye  do  disgust  folk  far  more  than 
ye  imagine." 

I  have  said  my  say.  Whosoever  will,  may  bepraise 
the  other  beauties  of  woman,  as  sundry  of  our  poets  have 
done ;  but  I  maintain,  a  fine  leg,  a  limb  well  shapen  and  a 
pretty  foot,  do  exercise  no  small  fascination  and  power 
in  the  realm  of  Love. 

[292] 


FOURTH  DISCOURSE 


etc  damca  ad   ion3   to  ptaoti^c   uycc 
j  f 

me  tiouna  one&  -oc. 


1. 


|  HAVE  spoke  afore  of  old  dames  which  be  fain 
to  play  the  wanton;  yet  do  I  further  append 
this  discourse  here.  So  by  way  of  commence- 
ment, I  will  say  how  one  day  myself  being  at 
the  Court  of  Spain  and  conversing  with  a  very  honourable 
and  fair  lady,  but  withal  something  advanced  in  age,  I 
did  hear  her  pronounce  these  words :  Que  ningunas  damas 
lindas,  o  alo  menos  pocas,  se  hazen  viejas  de  la  cinta 
hasta  abaxo,  "that  never  a  fair  lady,  or  at  the  least  very 
few  such,  are  old  from  the  waist  downwards."  On  my 
asking  her  in  what  sense  she  did  mean  this,  whether  'twas 
the  beauty  of  person  from  waist  down  that  did  never 
diminish  in  any  wise  by  reason  of  age,  or  the  desire  and 
appetite  of  concupiscence  that  did  not  at  all  fail  or  grow 
chilled  in  these  parts,  she  did  make  answer  she  intended 
both  the  one  and  the  other.  "For  indeed,"  she  went  on, 
"as  to  the  prickings  of  the  flesh,  no  cure  is  there  for 
these  you  must  know,  but  death  only ;  albeit  old  age  would 
seem  to  be  an  obstacle  thereto.  Yet  doth  every  beautiful 
woman  ever  fondly  love  her  own  self,  and  in  so  loving, 
'tis  not  for  her  own,  but  some  other's  sake;  and  is  in 

[293] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


no  wise  like  Narcissus,  the  which,  so  foolish  was  the  youth, 
himself  lover  and  beloved,  did  think  scorn  of  all  other 
affections." 

A  beautiful  woman  hath  naught  of  this  humour  about 
her.  So  have  I  heard  it  related  of  a  very  fair  lady,  which 
after  first  loving  herself  and  taking  much  joy  of  her 
own  beauty  alone  and  by  herself,  and  in  her  bed  stripping 
of  herself  quite  naked,  and  so  looking  at  her  own  person, 
and  admiring  and  contemplating  the  same,  did  curse  her 
hard  fate  to  be  vowed  to  one  sole  husband  that  was  not 
worthy  to  enjoy  so  fair  a  body,  holding  him  to  be  in  no 
wise  her  equal  in  merit.  At  the  last  was  she  so  fired  by 
such  contemplations  and  sights  and  longings  as  that  she 
did  bid  a  long  farewell  to  her  virtue  arid  her  marriage  vow, 
and  did  practise  new  love  with  a  new  lover. 

This  is  how  a  woman's  beauty  doth  kindle  and  inflame 
her,  constraining  her  to  have  resort  to  such,  whether  hus- 
bands or  lovers,  as  may  satisfy  her  desire ;  while  'tis  always 
the  nature  of  one  love  to  lead  to  another.  Wherefore 
being  thus  fair  and  sought  after  of  some  admirer,  and  if 
she  disdain  not  to  answer  to  his  passion,  she  is  at  once 
in  the  snare.  So  Lai's,  the  famous  courtesan,  was  used 
to  declare,  that  so  soon  as  ever  a  woman  doth  open  her 
mouth  to  make  a  gentle  reply  to  her  friend,  lo !  her  heart 
is  flown,  and  the  door  opened  straightway. 

Moreover  no  fair  and  honourable  woman  doth  ever 
refuse  any  good  praise  that  men  render  her;  and  once 
she  is  gratified  and  doth  suffer  such  commendation  of  her 
beauty,  grace  and  gentle  ways,  the  which  we  courtiers 
be  ever  wont  to  make  by  way  of  first  assault  of  love, 
though  it  may  be  some  while  a-doing,  yet  in  the  long  run 
we  do  always  win  the  place. 

[294] 


y^rraflft8Yit^itf«w«mw^Y»Air?^i^ 


ivwm'^vst^mimvmms&s&s^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


Further,  it  is  a  true  thing  that  no  beautiful  woman, 
having  once  made  essay  of  the  game  of  love,  doth  ever 
unlearn  the  same,  and  for  ever  after  is  the  sport  right 
pleasant  and  delightsome  to  her.  Just  as  when  a  man 
hath  grown  accustomed  to  good  living,  'tis  exceeding  dis- 
agreeable to  discontinue  the  same;  and  as  this  is  better 
for  the  health,  the  more  a  man  is  got  on  in  years,  (as  the 
doctors  declare),  so  the  more  a  woman  advanceth  in  age, 
all  the  more  is  she  greedy  after  the  good  cheer  she  is 
accustomed  to.  This  daintiness  is  nowise  forgot  or 
remitted  because  of  the  weight  of  years,  but  more  like  by 
some  long  sickness,  (so  the  faculty  tell  us),  or  other 
accident ;  and  albeit  disinclination  may  be  experienced  for 
some  while,  yet  will  the  taste  for  such  good  things  be 
renewed  anon. 

'Tis  said,  again,  how  that  all  activities  do  decrease  and 
diminish  by  reason  of  age,  which  doth  rob  folk  of  the 
strength  to  properly  exercise  the  same, — except  only  that 
of  Venus,  the  which  is  carried  out  very  luxuriously,  with- 
out sore  trouble  or  much  exertion,  in  a  soft,  comfortable 
bed,  and  altogether  at  ease.  I  do  speak  now  of  the  woman, 
and  not  of  the  man,  to  the  share  of  which  latter  falleth 
all  the  labour  and  task-work  in  this  province.  A  man 
then,  once  deprived  of  this  pleasure,  doth  easily  and  early 
abstain  from  further  indulgence, — albeit  sometimes  it  may 
be  in  spite  of  himself;  whereas  a  woman,  be  she  of  what 
age  she  will,  doth  take  to  her,  like  a  furnace,  and  burn  up, 
all  stuff  that  cometh  her  way.  Nay !  even  though  a  dame 
should  be  so  aged  as  to  look  but  ill,  and  find  herself  in  no 
such  good  case  as  in  her  younger  years,  yet  she  may  by 
dint  of  money  find  means  to  get  gallant  cavaliers  at  the 
current  rate,  and  good  ones  too,  as  I  have  heard  say.  All 

[295] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


3\}S!^^!mimmm^&}$!®s^ 


commodities  that  cost  dear  do  sore  vex  the  purse, — (this 
goes  counter  to  Heliogabalus'  opinion,  who  the  dearer  he 
did  buy  his  viands,  the  better  he  thought  them), — except 
only  the  commodities  of  Love,  the  which  be  the  more  agree- 
able in  proportion  as  they  cost  more,  by  reason  of  the 
great  desire  felt  to  get  good  value  of  the  bargain  and 
thoroughly  enjoy  the  article  purchased.  So  the  poor 
talent  one  hath,  is  made  to  do  triple  service,  or  even  hun- 
dredfold service,  if  that  may  any  way  be. 

This  is  what  a  certain  Spanish  courtesan  meant  by  her 
word  to  two  brave  gentlemen  which  did  pick  a  quarrel 
together  over  her,  and  sallying  forth  to  her  house,  did 
take  sword  in  hand  and  fall  to  a-fighting.  But  she  putting 
head  out  of  window,  did  cry  out  to  them:  Senores,  mis 
amores  se  ganan  con  oron  y  plata,  non  con  hierro, — 
"Nay !  Sirs,  my  love  is  won  with  gold  and  silver,  not  with 
iron." 

All  love  well  purchased  is  well  and  good.  Many  a  lady 
and  many  a  cavalier  which  have  done  such  traffic  could 
tell  us  so  much.  But  to  allege  here  examples  of  ladies, — 
and  there  be  many  such, — which  have  burned  as  hot  in 
their  old  age  as  ever  in  youth,  and  have  satisfied,  or  to 
put  it  better,  have  kept  up,  their  fires  with  second  hus- 
bands and  new  lovers,  would  be  for  me  now  a  waste  of 
labour,  seeing  I  have  elsewhere  given  many  such.  Yet 
will  I  bring  forward  one  or  two  here  also,  for  my  subject 
doth  require  it  and  is  suitable  to  such  matters. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  great  lady,  one  that  was  as  well 
talked  about  as  any  of  her  day,  which  one  day  seeing  a 
young  gentleman  with  very  white  hands,  did  ask  him  what 
he  was  used  to  do  to  have  them  so.  To  this  he  made  an- 
swer, by  way  of  jape  and  jest,  that  so  oft  as  ever  he  could, 

[296] 


yflayaggBraigWKfifi^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

maMiMijaa^1^!^^?^!^^^ 

he  would  be  a-rubbing  of  them  with  the  spirit  of  love. 
"Ah !  well,"  she  replied,  "  'tis  my  bad  luck  then ;  for  more 
than  sixty  years  have  I  been  washing  myself  therewith, 
and  I'm  just  as  bad  as  the  day  I  began.  Yet  do  I  bathe 
so  every  day." 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  lady  of  pretty  advanced  age, 
who  wishing  to  marry  again,  did  one  day  ask  a  physician's 
advice,  basing  her  reasons  for  so  doing  on  the  fact  that 
she  was  exceeding  full  of  all  sorts  of  evil  humours,  which 
had  assailed  and  ever  afflicted  her  since  she  was  a  widow. 
Yet  had  this  never  so  happed  in  the  lifetime  of  her  hus- 
band, seeing  that  by  dint  of  the  constant  exercises  they 
did  perform  together,  the  said  humours  were  consumed. 
The  physician,  who  was  a  merry  fellow,  and  willing  enough 
to  please  her  herein,  did  counsel  her  to  marry  again,  and 
in  this  fashion  to  chase  away  the  humours  from  her,  say- 
ing 'twas  better  far  to  be  happy  than  sad.  The  lady  did 
put  this  advice  in  practise,  and  found  it  answer  very 
well,  indeed,  superannuated  as  she  was.  This  was,  I  mean, 
with  a  new  husband  and  lover, — which  did  love  her  at 
least  as  much  for  the  sake  of  her  good  money  as  for  any 
pleasure  he  gat  of  her.  Though  of  a  surety  there  be 
many  quite  old  dames,  with  whom  as  much  enjoyment  is 
to  be  had  as  with  younger  women;  nay!  'tis  sometimes 
greater  and  better  with  such,  by  reason  of  their  under- 
standing the  art  and  science  of  love  better,  and  so  the 
more  stimulating  their  lovers'  taste  therefor. 

The  courtesans  of  Rome  and  of  Italy  generally,  when 
they  are  verging  toward  ripe  years,  do  maintain  this 
maxim,  that  una  galina  vecchia  fa  miglior  brodo  che  un' 
ultra, — "an  old  hen  doth  make  better  broth  than  any 
other." 

[297] 


8F5BT5l?raigWfflgWW?^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

mzeyaMi&ai^MiMiMi^i^ 

The  Latin  poet  Horace  doth  make  mention  of  an  old 
woman,  which  did  so  stir  and  toss  about  when  she  came  to 
bed,  and  move  her  so  violently  and  restlessly,  that  she 
would  set  not  alone  the  bed  but  the  whole  house  a-trem- 
bling.  A  gallant  old  dame  in  sooth!  Now  the  Latins  do 
name  suchlike  agitation  and  wanton  movement  subare 
a  sue. 

We  do  read  of  the  Emperor  Caligula,  that  of  all  his 
women  which  he  had,  he  did  love  best  Caesonia,  and  this 
not  so  much  by  reason  of  her  beauty,  nor  because  she  was 
in  the  flower  of  age,  for  indeed  she  was  by  then  well  on  in 
years,  but  on  account  of  her  exceeding  lustfulness  and  the 
wantonness  that  was  in  her,  as  well  as  the  good  pains  she 
did  take  in  the  exercise  thereof,  and  the  experience  her  age, 
and  long  practise  had  taught  her,  herein  leaving  all  the 
other  women  in  the  lurch,  albeit  handsomer  and  younger 
than  herself.  He  was  used  to  take  her  commonly  to  the 
wars  with  him,  clad  and  armed  like  a  man,  and  riding  in 
manlike  wise  side  by  side  with  him,  going  so  far  even  as 
often  times  to  show  her  to  his  comrades  all  naked,  and 
make  her  exhibit  to  them  her  feats  of  suppleness. 

Thus  are  we  bound  to  allow  that  age  had  in  no  wise 
diminished  the  lady's  beauty,  seeing  how  greatly  the 
Emperor  was  attached  to  her.  Natheless,  with  all  this 
fond  love  he  did  bear  her,  very  oft  wheneas  he  was  a-kissing 
and  touching  her  fair  neck,  he  could  not  hinder  himself, 
so  bloody-minded  was  he,  from  saying:  "Ah!  the  beau- 
tiful neck  it  is;  yet  'tis  in  my  power  at  will  to  have  it 
cut."  Alas  and  alas!  the  poor  woman  was  slain  along 
with  her  husband  with  a  sword  thrust  through  the  body 
by  a  Centurion,  and  her  daughter  broken  and  dashed  to 

[298] 


tftfflftfflft^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


death  against  a  wall,  —  the  which  could  never  have  been  but 
for  the  ill  deeds  of  her  father.1 

We  read  further  of  Julia,  step-mother  of  the  Emperor 
Caracalla,2  how  that  one  day  being  as  it  were  by  inad- 
vertence half  naked,  she  did  expose  one-half  of  her  body 
to  his  eyes  ;  whereupon  he  said  these  words,  "Ha,  ha  !  but 
I  could  relish  it  well  enough,  an  if  it  were  allowed  me!" 
She  answered  straightway,  "So  please  you,  know  you  not 
you  are  Emperor,  and  therefore  make  laws  instead  of  obey- 
ing them?"  On  hearing  these  words  and  seeing  her  readi- 
ness, he  did  marry  her  and  couple  with  her. 

A  reply  of  pretty  much  the  same  import  was  given  to  one 
of  our  last  three  French  Kings,  whose  name  I  will  not 
mention.  Being  enamoured  and  fallen  deep  in  love  with 
a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady,  after  having  made  the 
earlier  advances  and  preliminaries  of  his  suit  to  her,  did 
one  day  cause  his  pleasure  to  be  conveyed  to  her  more 
at  length  by  an  honourable  and  very  judicious  and  adroit 
gentleman  I  know  by  name  and  repute.  So  he,  conveying 
to  her  the  Sovereign's  little  missive,  did  use  all  his  elo- 
quence to  persuade  her  to  consent.  But  she,  no  fool  at 
this  game,  did  defend  herself  the  best  she  could  by  many 
excellent  reasons  the  which  she  well  knew  how  to  allege, 
without  forgetting  the  chief  est,  her  honour,  —  that  mighty, 
or  rather  mighty  small,  treasure.  At  the  last,  the  gentle- 
man after  much  disputing  and  many  protestations,  did  ask 
her  finally  what  she  did  desire  he  should  tell  the  King. 
Then  she,  after  some  moments  of  reflection,  did  suddenly, 
as  if  brought  to  bay,  pronounce  these  words  following: 
"What  are  you  to  tell  him?"  she  cried,  "why!  what  else 
but  this?  tell  him  I  know  well  enough  that  no  refusal  was 
ever  advantageous  to  any,  man  or  woman,  which  doth 

[299] 


ig^fflTWWWWWa^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

jfflyjiMiMaywaMiSjaMiMiM^ 

make  such  to  his  King  and  Sovereign;  and  that  very  oft 
a  Prince,  exerting  the  power  he  hath,  will  rather  give  the 
orders  and  taking  a  thing  than  go  on  begging  and  praying 
for  it."  Not  ill  content  with  this  reply,  the  gentleman 
doth  straightway  bear  it  to  the  King;  who  taking  time 
by  the  fore-lock,  doth  hie  him  to  the  lady  in  her  chamber, 
and  without  any  over  great  effort  or  resistance  doth  have 
his  will.  The  reply  was  at  once  witty,  and  showed  her 
good  will  to  pleasure  her  King.  Albeit  men  say  'tis  never 
well  to  have  sport  or  dealings  with  the  King,  yet  must  we 
except  this  particular  game,  wherefrom  never  was  ill 
advantage  gotten,  if  only  the  woman  do  behave  her 
prudently  and  faithfully. 

To  return  to  the  afore  named  Julia,  step-mother  of  the 
Emperor,  she  must  need  have  been  a  very  harlot  to  love  and 
take  for  husband  one  which  had  on  her  own  bosom  slain 
some  while  before  their  own  proper  son ;  3  verily  she  was  a 
base  harlot  and  of  base  heart.  Still  'twas  a  grand  thing  to 
be  Empress,  and  for  such  an  honour  all  else  is  forgot. 
This  Julia  was  greatly  loved  of  her  husband,  albeit  she 
was  well  advanced  in  years.  Yet  had  she  lost  naught  of 
her  beauty;  but  was  very  fair  and  very  ready-witted,  as 
those  her  words  do  witness,  which  did  make  yet  greater 
the  bed  of  her  greatness. 


[300] 


LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


i^i«.q^^t^p^84ajj<ii^i^(a!^ 


2. 

MARIA,  Third  Duke  of  Milan,1  did 
wed  as  second  wife  Beatrix,  widow  of  the  late 
deceased  Facino  Cane,2  being  then  an  old 
woman.  But  she  did  bring  him  for  marriage 
portion  four  hundred  thousand  crowns,  without  reckoning 
other  furnishings,  rings  and  jewelry,  which  did  amount 
to  a  great  sum,  and  quite  wiped  out  all  thought  of  her 
age.  Yet  spite  of  all,  she  did  fall  under  her  husband's 
suspicions  of  having  gone  to  play  the  wanton  elsewhere, 
and  for  this  suspicion  was  done  to  death  of  him.  You  see 
how  little  did  old  age  destroy  her  taste  for  the  games  of 
love.  We  must  e'en  suppose  the  great  practice  she  had 
had  thereof  had  but  given  her  the  desire  for  more  and 
more. 

Constance,  Queen  of  Sicily,8  who  from  her  youth  up  and 
near  all  her  days,  had  been  vestal  and  never  budged  forth 
of  a  cloister-cell,  but  lived  there  in  life-long  chastity, 
getting  her  freedom  to  come  out  in  the  world  at  last  at 
the  age  of  fifty,  though  in  no  wise  fair  and  quite  decrepit, 
yet  was  fain  to  taste  the  joys  of  the  flesh  and  marry. 
She  did  grow  pregnant  of  a  child  at  the  age  of  fifty-two, 
and  did  desire  to  be  brought  to  bed  publicly  in  the  open 
meadows  about  Palermo,  having  had  a  tent  or  pavilion  set 
up  there  on  purpose,  to  the  end  folk  might  have  never  a 
doubt  but  the  fruit  of  her  body  was  verily  to  hand.  And 
this  was  one  of  the  greatest  miracles  ever  seen  since  the 
days  of  Saint  Elizabeth.  Natheless  the  History  of 
Naples  *  doth  affirm  'twas  reputed  a  supposititious  child. 
At  any  rate  he  did  grow  up  a  great  man  for  all  that; 
but  indeed  these,  and  the  greater  part  of  valiant  men, 

[301] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


are  just  the  folk  that  be  often  bastards,  as  a  high-born 
friend  of  mine  did  one  day  remark  to  me. 

I  knew  once  an  Abbess  of  Tarascon,  sister  of  Madame 
d'Usez,  of  the  noble  house  of  Tallard,5  which  did  leave 
off  her  religious  habit  and  quit  her  convent  at  over 
fifty  years  of  age,  and  did  wed  the  great  Chanay  we 
have  seen  play  so  gamesome  a  part  at  Court. 

Many  other  women  of  religion  have  done  the  like, 
whether  in  wedlock  or  otherwise,  for  to  taste  the  joys 
of  the  flesh,  and  this  at  a  very  ripe  age.  If  such  as  these 
do  so,  what  are  we  to  expect  our  everyday  dames  to  do, 
which  have  been  broken  in  thereto  from  their  tenderest 
years?  Is  age  like  to  hinder  them  from  now  and  again 
tasting  and  eating  tit-bits,  the  customary  enjoyment 
whereof  they  have  so  long  been  used  to?  Else  what 
would  become  of  so  many  good  strengthening  soups  and 
cunningly  compounded  broths,  so  much  ambergris  and 
other  warming  and  comfortable  drugs  for  to  warm  and 
comfort  their  stomach  now  grown  old  and  chilly?  For 
'tis  not  open  to  doubt  but  that  such  like  decoctions,  while 
they  do  recreate  and  keep  sound  their  weakly  stomachs, 
do  likewise  perform  another  function  on  the  sly,  in  giving 
them  more  heat  of  body,  and  rousing  some  degree  of 
passionate  warmth.  This  is  sure  and  certain, — without 
appealing  to  the  opinion  of  physicians,  to  whom  how- 
ever I  do  refer  me  as  to  the  matter. 

And  another  and  yet  greater  advantage  for  them  is 
this.  Being  now  aged  and  coming  nigh  on  to  their  fifty 
years,  they  need  feel  no  more  fear  of  getting  with  child, 
and  so  have  full,  plenary  and  most  ample  freedom  to  enjoy 
and  make  up  all  arrears  of  those  pleasures  which  may- 

[302] 


toF^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


^t»x^ia^«gi^i«iBs4iisa^ 


hap  some  of  them  have  not  dared  take  hitherto  for  dread 
of  the  consequences.  So  it  is  that  there  be  many  which 
do  give  more  rein  to  their  amours  when  got  to  the  wrong 
side  of  fifty  than  when  still  on  the  right.  Not  a  few 
ladies  both  of  the  highest  and  less  exalted  rank  have  I 
heard  tell  of  as  being  of  this  complexion,  so  much  so 
that  I  have  known  or  heard  of  several  that  have  many 
a  time  and  oft  longed  for  their  fifty  years  to  have  come 
and  gone,  to  hinder  them  of  conceiving  and  suffer  them 
to  do  it  the  more  freely  without  risk  or  scandal  of  any 
sort.  Nay!  why  should  they  refrain  them  on  the  ap- 
proach of  old  age?  Indeed  you  might  well  say  that 
after  death  itself  there  be  women  which  yet  feel  some 
movement  and  pricking  of  the  flesh.  This  bringeth  me 
to  another  tale  I  must  needs  tell. 

I  had  in  former  days  a  younger  brother  called  Cap- 
tain Bourdeille,  one  of  the  bravest  and  most  valiant 
captains  of  his  time.  I  am  bound  to  say  thus  much  of 
him,  albeit  he  was  my  brother,  without  going  too  far  in 
my  panegyric  of  him.  The  same  is  proved  by  the  fights 
he  fought  both  in  battle  and  in  the  lists;  for  indeed  he 
was  of  all  gentlemen  of  France  the  one  that  had  most 
skill  of  arms,  so  that  in  Piedmont  he  was  known  as  one 
of  the  Rodomonts  of  those  parts.  He  was  slain  at  the 
assault  of  Hedin,  the  last  time  that  place  was  retaken. 

He  was  intended  by  his  father  and  mother  for  a  life 
of  letters;  and  with  this  view  was  sent  at  the  age  of 
eighteen  into  Italy  to  study.  He  did  take  up  his  abode 
at  Ferrara,  for  the  reason  that  Madame  Renee  de  France, 
Duchess  of  Ferrara,  was  much  attached  to  my  mother, 
and  did  keep  him  in  that  city  to  pursue  his  studies,  for 
there  was  an  University  there.  However,  seeing  he  was 

[303] 


Sn^Mftffiftfl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


fitted  neither  by  birth  nor  disposition  for  this  sort  of 
life,  he  did  study  scarce  at  all,  but  did  rather  amuse  him- 
self with  the  delights  of  love  and  courtship.  In  fact  he 
did  fall  deep  in  love  with  a  certain  French  lady,  a  widow, 
which  was  in  the  service  of  the  Duchess,  known  as  Mile,  de 
La  Roche  (or  de  La  Mothe)  and  did  have  much  pleasure 
with  her,  each  loving  the  other  exceeding  well,  till  at  the 
last  my  brother,  being  recalled  home  again  by  his  father, 
who  saw  he  was  ill  fitted  for  letters,  was  reluctantly  con- 
strained to  return. 

The  lady,  loving  him  greatly,  and  greatly  fearing  it 
might  turn  out  ill  with  him,  for  she  was  much  of  Luther's 
way  of  thinking,  who  was  then  widely  followed,  did  beg 
my  brother  to  take  her  with  him  to  France  and  to  the 
Court  of  Marguerite,  Queen  of  Navarre,6  in  whose  ser- 
vice she  had  been,  and  who  had  given  her  to  Madame 
Renee,  when  she  was  married  and  went  to  live  in  Italy. 
My  brother,  who  was  young  and  quite  heedless,  was  only 
too  glad  of  such  excellent  company,  and  did  willingly 
escort  her  to  Paris,  where  the  Queen  was  then  residing. 
This  last  was  right  glad  to  behold  her,  for  of  all  women 
she  was  the  wittiest  and  most  ready  of  tongue,  and  was 
a  handsome  widow  to  boot  and  perfect  in  all  accom- 
plishments. 

My  brother,  after  having  tarried  some  days  with  my 
grandmother  and  my  mother,  who  was  then  performing 
her  Court  service,  did  presently  go  home  to  see  his  father. 
After  some  while,  sickening  utterly  of  letters,  and  seeing 
himself  in  no  wise  fitted  for  their  pursuit,  he  doth  quit 
that  career  altogether  and  away  to  the  wars  in  Pied- 
mont and  Parma,  where  he  did  win  much  honour.  So 
he  did  serve  in  these  wars  by  the  space  of  five  or  six 

[304] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


months  without  returning  home.  At  the  end  of  this 
time  he  went  to  see  his  mother,  who  was  at  the  time  at 
Court  with  the  Queen  of  Navarre;  the  Queen  was  then 
holding  Court  at  Pau,  and  my  brother  did  make  his 
reverence  to  her  as  she  was  returning  from  Vespers. 
Being  one  of  the  best  natured  Princesses  was  ever  in  this 
world,  she  did  receive  him  right  graciously,  and  talcing 
him  by  the  hand,  did  walk  with  him  up  and  down  the 
Church  for  an  hour  or  twain,  asking  him  news  of  the  wars 
in  Piedmont  and  Italy  and  of  many  other  matters.  To 
all  this  my  brother  did  make  answer  so  well  that  she  was 
very  well  satisfied  (for  indeed  he  was  as  ready  of  tongue  as 
any  of  his  time)  as  well  with  his  wit  as  with  his  person,  — 
for  he  was  a  most  handsome  man,  and  of  the  age  then  of 
twenty-four.  At  the  last,  after  long  discourse  with  him, 
for  'twas  ever  the  nature  and  complexion  of  the  said  noble 
Princess  in  no  wise  to  scorn  good  talk  and  the  conversa- 
tion of  good  and  honourable  folk,  gliding  from  subject  to 
subject  and  still  walking  up  and  down  the  while,  she  did 
quietly  bring  my  brother  right  over  the  tomb  of  Mile. 
de  La  Roche,  which  had  died  three  months  before,  and 
there  staid  him.  Presently  taking  his  hand,  she  said 
thus;  "Cousin  mine"  (she  called  him  so,  seeing  that  a 
daughter  of  Albret  had  married  into  our  house  of 
Bourdeille;  but  for  all  that  I  do  keep  no  greater  state 
than  another,  nor  suffer  my  ambition  to  run  away  with 
me),  "cannot  you  feel  something  move  down  below  under 
your  feet?"  —  "Why!  no,  Madame,"  he  did  reply.  — 
"Nay!  take  heed  and  mark  carefully,  cousin,"  she  did 
resume.  —  But  my  brother  only  made  answer,  "Madame, 
I  have  taken  heed,  but  I  can  feel  nothing  moving.  The 
stone  I  tread  on  is  firm  enough."  —  "Well,  well!  I  must 

[305] 


Brasrwwfflgwgffigwwwwws^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ai^iiyiii^aifeflityiifeffli^^ 

tell  you  then,"  the  Queen  went  on,  without  keeping  him 
longer  in  suspense,  "that  you  are  standing  above  the 
tomb  and  the  body  of  poor  Mile,  de  La  Roche,  whom 
erst  you  did  love  so  fondly;  she  is  interred  beneath  this 
spot.  Now  seeing  that  our  souls  do  possess  feeling  after 
our  death,  how  can  we  doubt  that  this  excellent  creature, 
dead  but  lately,  was  moved  so  soon  as  ever  you  came  over 
her?  And  if  you  did  not  mark  it  by  reason  of  the  gross- 
ness  of  the  tomb,  no  doubt  for  this  cause  was  she  the 
more  stirred  and  moved  in  herself.  Now  forasmuch  as 
'tis  a  right  pious  office  to  have  memory  of  the  dead,  and 
specially  of  them  we  have  loved,  I  do  beseech  you  give  her 
a  Pater  nosier  and  an  Ave  Maria  and  a  de  Profundis 
to  boot,  and  sprinkle  her  resting  place  with  holy  water; 
so  shall  you  win  the  name  of  a  very  faithful  lover  and  a 
good  Christian.  And  to  this  end  will  I  now  leave  you," 
and  so  quits  him  and  hies  her  away.  My  brother,  (who 
is  since  dead),  failed  not  to  perform  what  she  had  said, 
and  then  went  to  see  her  again;  whereupon  she  did 
somewhat  take  him  to  task  and  rally  him,  for  she  was 
familiar  with  folk, — in  a  good  sense  that  is, — and  had 
graceful  skill  in  gentle  mockery. 

Such  then  was  the  view  this  Princess  did  hold,  but  more 
by  way  of  witty  conceit  and  gentle  sentiment  than  from 
actual  belief,  as  I  think. 

These  gentle  words  of  the  Princess  do  further  remind 
me  of  an  epitaph  over  a  courtesan  that  is  buried  at  the 
Church  of  our  Lady  of  the  People  (del  Popolo)  at  Rome, 
which  doth  read  thus:  Quaesco,  viator,  ne  me  diutius 
calcatam  amplius  calces,  "To  him  that  passeth  by:  'I 
have  been  kicked  and  spurned  enough  in  my  lifetime; 
spurn  me  no  more.' '  The  Latin  expression  hath  more 

[306] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ffl^t^ammaiRmaiik^a^^ 

grace  than  the  English  equivalent.  I  do  put  the  thing 
down  here  more  by  way  of  a  jest  than  anything  else. 

Well,  to  draw  to  an  end,  no  need  to  be  astonished  that 
the  Spanish  lady  named  above  did  hold  the  maxim  she 
did  enunciate  good  of  all  such  fair  ladies  as  have  been 
greatly  loved  of  others,  and  have  loved,  and  do  love, 
themselves,  and  do  take  delight  in  being  praised,  albeit 
they  may  have  but  little  left  of  their  by-gone  beauty. 
But  yet  'tis  ever  the  chiefest  pleasure  you  can  give  them, 
and  the  one  they  do  love  the  most,  whenas  you  tell  them 
they  are  still  the  same,  and  are  in  no  wise  changed  or 
aged,  and  above  all  those  of  them  which  grow  not  old 
from  the  waist  downwards. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  a  very  fair  and  honourable  lady 
which  one  day  did  say  thus  to  her  lover:  "I  know  not 
whether  for  the  future  old  age  will  bring  me  increasing 
inconvenience  and  incapacity," — she  was  fifty-five  years 
old ;  "but,  God  be  thanked,  I  did  never  do  myself  pleasure 
so  well  as  I  do  now,  nor  ever  took  greater  joy  therein. 
Whether  this  do  last  out  and  continue  till  my  extremest 
old  age  or  no,  I  have  no  fault  to  find,  nor  complaint  to 
make  of  my  days  gone  by." 

Now  as  concerning  love  and  concupiscence,  I  have  both 
here  and  elsewhere  adduced  examples  enough,  without 
dwelling  longer  on  this  subject.  Let  us  now  consider  a 
while  the  maxim  as  concerning  this  special  beauty  of 
fair  ladies,  how  that  it  doth  not  diminish  by  reason  of 
old  age. 

For  sure,  the  aforesaid  Spanish  lady  did  allege  many 
good  reasons  and  seemly  comparisons,  likening  these  fair 
ladies  to  fine  old  buildings  of  yore  whose  ruins  do  yet 
remain  superb  and  imposing.  So  amid  the  noble  antiqui- 

[307] 


www^i?fgi??w^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


ties  of  Rome  do  we  see  the  ruins  of  palaces,  superb  relics 
of  Collosseum  and  Thermae,  which  to  this  day  do  plainly 
show  what  they  once  were,  and  do  inspire  all  beholders 
with  wonder  and  awe,  their  mere  ruins  being  wondrous  and 
surprising.  Nay,  more  !  on  these  same  ruins  men  do  still 
build  right  noble  edifices,  proving  that  the  foundations  be 
better  and  finer  than  fresh  new  ones.  So  very  often  in 
their  constructions,  the  which  our  good  architects  and 
masons  do  undertake,  if  that  they  find  some  old  ruins  and 
ancient  foundations,  straightway  do  they  build  on  these, 
and  that  in  preference  to  laying  new  ones. 

Likewise  have  I  seen  good  galleys  and  ships  built  and 
reconstructed  on  old  hulls  and  old  keels,  the  which  had 
long  lain  in  harbour  doing  nothing  ;  and  these  were  every 
whit  as  good  and  sound  as  others  which  the  ship-carpen- 
ters did  frame  and  build  all  new,  and  of  new  timber  fresh 
from  the  forest. 

Furthermore,  our  Spanish  lady  was  used  to  say,  —  do  we 
not  many  a  time  see  the  summits  of  high  towers  carried 
away,  overthrown  and  disfigured  by  winds,  storms  and 
lightning,  while  the  base  doth  remain  safe  and  sound?  For 
'tis  ever  against  such  lofty  points  that  storms  do  spend 
their  fury.  The  sea  winds  moreover  do  corrode  and  eat 
away  the  upper  stones  of  a  building  and  do  wear  them 
hollow  more  than  those  at  the  bottom,  seeing  these  be  not 
so  much  exposed  as  the  ones  higher  up. 

In  like  wise  many  fair  ladies  do  lose  the  brilliancy  and 
beauty  of  their  pretty  faces  by  various  accidents  whether 
of  cold  or  heat,  of  sun  and  moon,  and  the  like,  as  well  as, 
more's  the  pity,  by  reason  of  various  cosmetics,  the  which 
they  do  apply  to  them,  thinking  so  to  heighten  their 
charms,  but  really  and  truly  spoiling  all  their  beauty 

[308] 


^i!^;y«w«^r?^faw«Myrtifr8fltre^ 


tmwt\»jt«<«g^^^(>iiit^^ 


thereby.  Whereas  in  other  parts,  they  do  apply  no  other 
preparation  but  only  nature's  method,  feeling  therefore 
neither  cold,  nor  rain,  nor  wind,  neither  sun  nor  moon, 
none  of  which  do  affect  them  at  all. 

If  heat  do  inconvenience  them,  they  know  many  means 
to  gain  relief  and  coolness;  as  likewise  they  can  guard 
against  cold  in  plenty  of  ways.  So  many  inconveniences 
and  injuries  must  needs  be  warded  off  from  a  woman's 
beauty  of  face,  but  few  or  none  from  that  which  lieth 
elsewhere.  Wherefore  we  should  never  conclude,  because 
a  woman's  countenance  is  spoiled,  that  she  is  all  foredone 
all  over,  and  that  naught  doth  remain  of  fine  and  good, 
and  that  'tis  useless  to  build  on  that  foundation. 

I  have  heard  a  tale  told  of  a  certain  great  lady,  which 
had  been  exceeding  fair  and  much  devoted  to  love.  One 
of  her  old  lovers  having  lost  sight  of  her  for  the  space  of 
four  years,  through  some  journey  he  did  undertake,  on  re- 
turning from  the  same  did  find  her  sadly  changed  from  the 
fair  countenance  he  had  known  erstwhile,  the  which  did 
so  disappoint  him  and  chill  his  ardour  as  that  he  did  no 
more  care  to  board  her  nor  to  renew  with  her  again  the 
pleasure  of  former  days.  She  did  recognize  him  readily 
enough,  did  endeavour  all  she  could  to  get  him  to  come  and 
see  her.  Accordingly  to  this  end  she  did  one  day  counter- 
feit sickness,  and  when  he  had  come  to  visit  her  by  day- 
light did  thus  say  to  him :  "I  know  well  enough,  Sir !  you 
do  scorn  me  for  my  poor  face  so  changed  by  age;  but 
come,  look  you,  and  see  if  there  be  aught  changed  there. 
If  my  face  has  deceived  you,  at  any  rate  there  is  no 
deception  about  that."  So  the  gentleman  examining  her 
and  finding  her  as  fair  and  sound  as  ever,  did  straight 
recover  appetite  and  did  enjoy  the  flesh  he  had  thought 

[309] 


graiff^raig^itr^ffljf^i^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

gBBjMKmfflMiiW-^BM^ 

to  be  spoiled.  "Now  this  is  the  way,  Sir,"  said  the  lady, 
"you  men  are  deceived!  Another  time,  give  no  credence 
to  the  lies  our  false  faces  tell ;  for  indeed  the  rest  of  OUT 
bodies  doth  by  no  means  always  match  them.  This  is  the 
lesson  I  would  have  you  learn." 

Another  lady  of  the  like  sort,  being  thus  sorely  changed 
of  her  fair  face,  was  in  such  great  anger  and  despite 
against  the  same,  that  she  would  never  more  look  at  it  in 
her  mirror,  saying  'twas  unworthy  of  so  much  honour.  So 
she  had  her  head  always  dressed  by  her  maids;  and  to 
make  up,  would  ever  look  at  the  other  parts  of  herself 
only  and  gaze  at  these,  taking  as  much  pride  and  delight 
therein  as  she  had  aforetime  done  in  her  beautiful  face. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  another  lady,  who  whenever  she 
did  lie  by  daylight  with  her  lover,  was  used  to  cover  her 
face  with  a  fair  white  kerchief  of  fine  Holland  web,  for 
fear  lest,  if  he  should  look  in  her  face,  the  upper  works 
might  chill  and  stay  his  affection,  and  move  him  to  mere 
disgust;  for  indeed  below  was  naught  to  chide  at,  but 
all  was  as  fine  as  ever.  This  doth  remind  me  of  yet  another 
very  honourable  lady  I  have  heard  tell  of,  who  did  make  a 
diverting  and  witty  reply.  Her  husband  one  day  asking 
her  why  her  hair  in  one  place  was  not  grown  white  and 
hoary  like  that  of  her  head,  "Ah,  yes,"  she  did  exclaim, 
"the  wretch  it  is !  It  hath  done  all  the  folly,  yet  doth  it  feel 
naught,  nor  experience  any  ill  consequences.  Many  and 
many  a  time  hath  it  made  my  head  to  suffer;  whereas  it 
doth  ever  remain  unchanged,  in  the  same  good  estate  and 
vigour,  and  keepeth  the  same  complexion,  and  above  all 
the  same  natural  heat,  and  the  same  appetite  and  sound 
health.  But  how  far  otherwise  it  is  with  my  other  parts, 

[310] 


KTW^SS^fJ^I^I^I^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

iig^ 


which  do  endure  aches  and  pains  for  it,  and  my  hair  which 
hath  long  ago  grown  white  and  hoary." 

And  she  had  good  reason  so  to  speak;  for  truly  this 
doth  engender  in  women  many  ills,  and  gout  and  other 
sicknesses.  Moreover  for  being  over  hot  at  it,  so  the 
doctors  say,  do  they  grow  prematurely  hoary-headed. 
Thus  we  see  fair  ladies  do  never  grow  old  in  some  parts, 
either  in  one  fashion  or  the  other. 

I  have  heard  many  men  relate,  —  men  which  have  fol- 
lowed women  freely,  even  going  with  courtesans,  —  how 
that  they  have  scarce  ever  seen  pretty  women  get  old  in 
certain  parts,  did  always  keep  all  their  former  beauty,  and 
good  will  and  hearty  disposition  to  boot  as  good  as  afore- 
time. Nay,  more  !  I  have  heard  not  a  few  husbands  declare 
they  did  find  their  old  women  (so  they  called  them)  as  fair 
and  fine  as  ever,  and  as  full  of  desire  and  wantonness, 
beauty  and  good  will,  discovering  no  change  at  all  but  of 
face,  and  were  as  fain  to  love  them  as  ever  they  were  in 
their  young  days. 

In  fine,  how  many  men  there  be  which  do  love  old 
women  for  many  reasons  better  than  young  !  Just  as  there 
be  many  which  do  love  old  horses  best,  whether  for  a  good 
day's  work,  or  for  the  riding-school  and  display,  —  such 
animals  as  have  been  so  well  drilled  in  their  youth  as  that 
you  will  have  never  a  fault  to  find  with  them  when  grown 
old.  Right  well  trained  have  they  been,  and  have  never 
after  forgot  their  pretty  cunning. 

I  have  myself  seen  in  our  Royal  stables  a  horse  they 
called  Quadragant,  first  broke  in  the  time  of  King  Henri. 
He  was  over  two  and  twenty  years  old  ;  but  aged  as  he  was, 
he  yet  went  very  well,  and  had  forgot  naught  of  his  exer- 
cises. He  could  still  give  his  King,  and  all  which  did  see 

[311] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


^'t>«j|X»>yiiftyi!W*»Jl^Jt^l«g^ 


him  go  through  his  paces,  great  and  real  pleasure.  I  have 
seen  the  like  done  by  a  tall  charger  called  Gonzago,  from 
the  stud-farm  of  Mantua,  and  which  was  of  the  same  age 
as  Quadragant. 

I  have  likewise  seen  that  magnificent  and  well-known 
black,  which  had  been  set  to  stallion's  work.  Signer  An- 
tonio, who  had  charge  of  the  Royal  stud,  did  show  him  me 
at  Meung,7  one  day  I  did  pass  that  way,  making  him  do 
the  two  strides  and  a  leap,  and  the  round  step, — both 
which  he  did  execute  as  well  as  the  day  M.  de  Carnavallet 
had  first  trained  him, — for  he  was  his  horse.  The  late 
M.  de  Longueville  was  fain  to  hire  him  of  his  master  for 
three  thousand  livres;  however  King  Charles  would  not 
have  it,  but  took  him  for  himself,  recompensing  the 
owner  in  another  way.  A  whole  host  of  others  I  could  easily 
name ;  but  I  should  never  have  done,  and  so  do  refer  me  to 
those  worthy  squires  which  have  seen  so  many  of  the  sort. 

Our  late  King  Henri,  at  the  camp  of  Amiens,  had  chose 
for  his  mount  on  the  day  of  battle  an  horse  called  le  Bay 
de  la  Paix,  &  very  fine  and  strong  charger,  and  aged. 
But  he  died  of  fever  in  the  camp  of  Amiens ;  so  the  most 
expert  farriers  did  declare,  but  'twas  deemed  a  strange 
thing  to  have  happed. 

The  late  Due  de  Guise  did  send  to  his  stud-farm  of 
Esclairon  8  for  the  bay  Sanson,  which  was  there  serving 
the  mares  as  stallion,  to  be  his  mount  at  the  battle  of 
Dreux,  where  he  did  carry  him  excellently. 

In  his  first  wars  the  late  Prince  did  take  from  the  stud  at 
Mun  two  and  twenty  horses,  which  were  there  as  stallions, 
to  serve  him  in  his  campaigns ;  and  did  divide  the  same 
among  the  different  lords  which  were  with  him,  after  re- 
serving his  own  share.  Whereof  the  gallant  Avaret  did 

[312] 


l^Vsffiftfflftfflftfflf^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


wjtisaixgw^^^tgq^^ 


have  a  charger  which  the  great  Constable  had  given  to 
King  Henri,  and  which  was  called  le  Compere  (Old  Gos- 
sip). Aged  as  he  was,  never  was  seen  a  better  mount ;  his 
master  did  prove  him  in  some  good  tough  rencontres,  and 
he  did  carry  him  right  well.  Captain  Bourdet  gat  the 
Arab,  on  whose  back  our  late  King  Henri  was  wounded  and 
slain,  a  horse  the  late  M.  de  Savoie  had  given  him,  called 
le  Malheureux  (the  Unlucky).  This  was  his  name  when 
he  was  presented  to  the  King,  and  verily  'twas  one  of  very 
ill  omen  to  him.  Never  in  his  youth  was  he  near  so  good 
as  he  was  in  his  old  age ;  though  'tis  true  his  master,  which 
was  one  of  the  most  gallant  gentlemen  of  France,  did 
show  him  ever  to  the  best  advantage.  In  a  word,  of  all 
these  stallions,  was  not  one  that  age  did  hinder  from  serv- 
ing his  master  well,  and  his  Prince  and  country.  Indeed 
there  be  some  old  horses  that  will  never  give  up ;  hence 
'tis  well  said,  no  good  horse  doth  ever  become  a  mere  hack. 


3. 

|F  such  sort  be  many  fair  dames,  which  in  their 
old  age  be  every  whit  as  good  as  other  women 
in  their  youth,  and  do  give  as  great  pleasure, 
from  their  having  been  in  their  time  thor- 
oughly well  taught  and  trained.  And  be  sure  such  lessons 
are  not  easily  forgot.  Then  again  the  best  of  it  is  these 
be  always  most  liberal  and  generous  in  giving,  so  as  to 
keep  in  hand  their  cavalier  and  riders,  which  do  get  more 
money  and  demand  an  higher  salary  to  bestride  an  old 
mount  than  a  young  one.  'Tis  just  the  opposite  with 
squires  and  real  horsemen,  which  do  never  care  so  much 

[313] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

ma&fflfeafea&ai^ 

to  mount  broke  horses  as  young  ones  that  be  yet  to  break. 
However  this  is  but  reasonable  after  all. 

There  is  a  question  I  have  seen  debated  on  the  subject 
of  women  of  years,  to  wit:  which  doth  bring  the  greater 
glory,  to  love  a  woman  of  years  and  have  the  enjoyment 
of  her,  or  to  so  do  with  a  young  one.  Not  a  few  have  I 
heard  pronounce  for  the  older  woman.  For  they  would 
maintain  that  the  foolishness  and  heat  which  be  in  youth 
are  of  themselves  debauched  enough  already  and  right  easy 
to  undo;  whereas  the  prudence  and  coldness  that  would 
seem  natural  to  age  cannot  but  with  difficulty  be  led 
astray.  And  so  they  which  do  succeed  in  corrupting  such 
win  the  higher  repute. 

In  like  wise  was  the  famous  courtesan  Lai's  used  to  boast 
and  glorify  herself  greatly  of  the  fact  that  the  philoso- 
phers did  come  so  oft  to  visit  her  and  learn  in  her  school, 
more  than  of  all  the  young  and  giddy  folks  which  did 
frequent  her  society.  So  also  Flora  was  ever  proud  to 
see  great  and  dignified  Roman  senators  arrive  at  her  door, 
rather  than  young  and  foolish  gallants.  Thus  methinks 
'tis  great  glory  to  vanquish  and  overcome  the  wise  pru- 
dence which  should  be  in  persons  of  ripe  age,  so  far  as 
pleasure  and  satisfaction  go. 

I  do  refer  me  to  such  men  as  have  made  experiment 
hereof,  of  the  which  sundry  have  told  me  how  that  a 
trained  mount  is  ever  more  agreeable  than  a  wild  colt 
and  one  that  doth  not  so  much  as  know  the  trot.  Further- 
more, what  pleasure  and  what  greatest  delight  may  not 
a  man  enjoy  in  mind,  whenas  he  doth  behold  enter  a  ball- 
room, or  one  of  the  Queen's  apartments,  or  a  Church, 
or  other  place  crowded  with  company,  a  lady  of  ripe  years 
and  dignity,  de  alta  guisa  (of  lofty  carriage)  as  they  say 

[314] 


r?8vir?iW»W«W*ifisYir^^^ 


Wl^l^l^l^l^^l^liSJliSJ^lJlil^l^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


in  Italian,  and  above  all  a  lady  of  honour  to  the  Queen 
or  some  Princess,  or  the  governess  of  some  King's  daugh- 
ter, young  queen  or  great  princess,  or  mayhap  mother 
of  the  maids  of  honour,  one  that  is  chose  out  and  set  in  this 
high  and  sober  office  by  reason  of  her  modest  and  seemly 
carriage?  You  shall  see  her  assuming  all  the  part  of  the 
prudish,  chaste  and  virtuous  dame,  while  everybody  doth 
of  course  suppose  her  so,  by  reason  of  her  years ;  then 
what  joy,  when  a  man  doth  think  in  his  heart,  or  e'en 
say  it  out  to  some  trusty  comrade  and  confidant  of  his, 
"Look  at  her  yonder,  with  her  solemn  ways,  her  staid 
and  cold  and  scornful  mien!  To  see  her,  would  you  not 
deem  butter  would  not  melt  in  her  mouth?  Yet,  alack-a- 
day!  never  a  weathercock  in  all  the  wide  world  doth  so 
shift  and  whirl  so  swift  and  nimbly  as  doth  she." 

For  myself,  I  do  verily  believe  the  man  which  hath 
known  this  joy  and  can  so  say,  is  right  well  content  at 
heart.  Ha !  ha !  but  I  have  known  a  many  such  dames  in 
this  world,  which  did  counterfeit  to  be  most  modest, 
prudish  and  censorious  duennas,  yet  were  exceeding  dis- 
solute and  lecherous  when  they  did  come  to  it.  Yea !  and 
they  would  be  put  on  their  backs  far  more  than  most 
young  damsels,  which,  by  reason  of  their  too  much  inex- 
perience, be  afraid  of  the  gentle  strife!  So  do  they  say 
there  is  naught  so  good  as  old  vixens  for  hunting  abroad 
and  getting  food  for  their  cubs  to  eat. 

We  read  how  of  old  days  several  Roman  Emperors  did 
take  their  pleasure  in  the  debauching  and  having  their  will 
of  suchlike  high-born  ladies  of  honour  and  repute,  as  well 
for  the  pleasure  and  contentment  to  be  had  therein, — and 
in  good  sooth  there  is  more  with  such  than  with  women  of 
inferior  sort, — as  for  sake  of  the  glory  and  honour  they 

[315] 


Tiff'SffiTOi^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a^maMijysyii^mmgMi^^ 

did  arrogate  to  themselves  for  having  so  debauched  and 
bested  them.  So  in  like  wise  have  I  known  in  my  own  time 
not  a  few  great  Lords,  Princes  and  Noblemen,  which  have 
found  great  boast  and  great  content  at  heart,  by  reason 
of  having  done  the  same. 

Julius  Caesar  and  Octavius,  his  successor,  were  exceeding 
ardent  after  such  sort  of  conquests,  as  I  have  alleged  be- 
fore; and  after  them  Caligula,  who  summoning  to  his 
feasts  the  most  illustrious  Roman  ladies  together  with 
their  husbands,  would  gaze  steadfastly  at  the  same  and 
examine  them  minutely,  nay!  would  actually  put  out  his 
hand  and  lift  their  faces  up,  if  by  chance  any  of  them 
did  hang  their  heads  as  conscious  of  being  dames  of 
honour  and  repute, — though  truly  other  some  were  fain 
but  to  counterfeit  this  modesty,  and  play  the  shamefaced 
prude.  But  verily  there  cannot  have  been  a  many  genuine 
prudes  in  the  days  of  these  dissolute  Emperors ;  yet  must 
they  needs  make  the  pretense,  albeit  nothing  more.  Else 
had  the  game  not  been  worth  the  playing;  and  I  have 
myself  in  our  day  seen  many  a  fair  lady  do  the  like. 

Afterward  such  of  them  as  did  hit  the  worthy  Emperor's 
taste,  these  he  would  take  aside  openly  and  from  their  very 
husbands'  side,  and  leading  them  from  the  hall  would  escort 
them  to  a  privy  chamber,  where  he  would  take  his  pleasure 
of  them  to  his  full  content.  This  done  he  would  lead  them 
back  to  sit  down  once  more  in  their  place ;  and  then  before 
all  the  company  would  proceed  to  commend  their  beauties 
and  special  hidden  charms  that  were  in  them,  specifying 
these  same  separately  and  severally.  And  any  which  had 
any  blemishes,  faults  or  defects  of  beauty,  these  he  would 
by  no  means  let  off  in  silence,  but  was  used  always  to 

[316] 


ffiaffii^aiv^ffl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


^ix^i^BStitjsj^esjijw^^ 


describe  and  declare  the  same  openly,  without  disguising 
or  concealing  aught. 

Nero  was  even  yet  worse  than  this,  being  so  curious  as 
that  he  did  examine  his  own  mother's  dead  body,  gazing 
steadfastly  upon  the  same  and  handling  all  her  limbs  and 
parts,  commending  some  and  abusing  others. 

I  have  heard  the  same  thing  told  of  sundry  great  Lords 
of  Christian  days,  which  have  had  this  same  strange  curi- 
osity toward  their  dead  mothers. 

Nor  was  this  all  with  the  said  Caligula  ;  for  he  was  used 
to  retail  all  their  movements,  their  naughty  ways  and 
tricks,  and  the  modes  and  fashions  they  did  follow  in  their 
doing  of  it,  and  in  special  of  any  which  had  been  modest 
and  prudish,  or  which  had  made  pretense  to  be  so  at  table. 
For  verily  if  a-bed  they  were  fain  to  do  the  like,  there  is 
small  doubt  but  the  cruel  tyrant  did  menace  them  with 
death,  unless  they  would  do  all  his  pleasure  for  his  full 
content,  and  so  constrained  them  by  the  terror  of  execu- 
tion. Then  after  would  he  speak  despitefully  of  them  to 
his  heart's  content,  to  the  sore  shame  and  general  mockery 
of  the  poor  dames,  who  thinking  to  be  accounted  chaste 
and  modest  as  ever  women  can  be,  and  to  play  the  hypo- 
crite and  counterfeit  donne  da  ben  (virtuous  ladies),  were 
utterly  and  entirely  revealed  in  their  true  colours  and 
made  known  as  mere  harlots  and  wanton  wenches.  And 
truly  this  was  no  bad  business  so  to  discover  them  in 
a  character  they  did  never  wish  to  be  known.  And  better 
still,  'twas  always,  as  I  have  said,  great  ladies  that  were 
so  entreated,  such  as  wives  of  consuls,  dictators,  praetors, 
quaestors,  senators,  censors,  knights,  and  others  of  the 
highest  estate  and  dignity,  as  we  might  say  in  our  own 
days  and  Christian  lands,  mighty  Queens,  (which  yet 

[317] 


i?fffl^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

a&flli^lM!MKJ?15aiytl^^ 

are  not  to  be  compared  with  Consuls'  wives,  seeing  these 
were  paramount  over  all  men),  Princesses  of  greater  and 
less  puissance,  Duchesses,  Marchionesses,  and  Countesses, 
great  and  small,  Baronesses,  Knights'  dames,  and  the  like 
ladies  of  rank  and  rich  estate.  And  truly  there  is  no 
doubt  at  all  but  that  many  Christian  Emperors  and 
Kings,  if  they  had  the  power  to  do  the  like  of  the 
Emperor  Caligula  toward  ladies  of  such  quality,  would 
avail  themselves  thereof.  But  then  they  be  Christians, 
which  have  the  fear  of  God  before  their  eyes,  his  holy 
ordinances,  their  own  conscience  and  honour,  and  the 
ill-repute  of  their  fellows,  to  say  naught  of  the  ladies' 
husbands,  to  whose  generous  spirit  suchlike  tyranny  would 
be  unendurable.  Wherein  of  a  surety  our  Christian  Kings 
be  deserving  of  high  esteem  and  commendation,  thus  to 
win  the  love  of  fair  ladies  rather  by  dint  of  gentleness 
and  loving  arts  than  by  brute  force  and  harsh  rigour, — 
and  the  conquest  so  gained  is  by  far  a  nobler  one. 

I  have  heard  speak  of  two  great  Princes  *  which  have 
taken  exceeding  pleasure  in  thus  discovering  their  ladies' 
beauties,  charms  and  especial  graces,  as  well  as  their  de- 
formities, blemishes  and  defects,  together  with  their  little 
ways,  privy  movements  and  wanton  wiles, — not  however  in 
public,  as  did  Caligula,  but  in  privity,  with  their  close  and 
particular  friends.  Truly  a  sad  fashion  to  entreat  the 
pretty  persons  of  these  poor  ladies.  Thinking  to  do  well 
and  sport  agreeably  for  to  pleasure  their  husbands,  they 
be  but  scorned  therefor  and  made  a  laughing-stock. 

Well,  to  return  to  our  former  comparison, — just  as 
we  do  see  beautiful  buildings  based  on  better  foundations 
and  of  better  stone  and  material  some  than  others,  and 
for  this  cause  endure  longer  in  their  glory  and  beauty, 

[318] 


LIVES  OF  FAIR  AND  GALLANT  LADIES 


even  so  there  be  some  dames  of  bodies  so  well  complexioned 
and  fairly  fashioned,  and  endowed  with  so  fine  a  beauty,  as 
that  time  doth  in  no  wise  so  prevail  over  them  as  with 
others,  nor  seem  to  undermine  their  comeliness  at  all. 

We  read  in  history  how  that  Artaxerxes,2  among  all  the 
wives  he  had,  did  love  the  most  Astacia,  which  was  a 
woman  of  very  ripe  age,  yet  still  most  beautiful,  and  had 
been  the  mistress  of  his  late  brother  Darius.  His  son  did 
fall  so  deep  in  love  with  her,  so  exceeding  fair  was  she  in 
spite  of  years,  that  he  did  demand  to  share  her  with  his 
father,  in  the  same  way  as  his  share  of  the  Kingdom. 
But  the  father,  angered  by  this  and  jealous  at  the  notion 
of  another  sharing  with  him  this  dainty  morsel,  did  make 
her  Priestess  of  the  Sun,  forasmuch  as  in  Persia  women 
which  hold  this  estate  must  vow  themselves  to  absolute 
chastity. 

We  read  again  in  the  History  of  Naples  how  Ladislas,  a 
Hungarian  and  King  of  Naples,  did  besiege  in  Taranto  the 
Duchess  Marie,  widow  of  Rammondelo  de  Balzo,  and  after 
sundry  assaults  and  feats  of  arms,  did  take  her  by  ar- 
rangement with  her  children,  and  wed  her,  albeit  she  was 
of  ripe  years,  yet  exceeding  fair  to  look  upon,  and 
carried  her  with  him  to  Naples.  She  was  thereafter  known 
as  Queen  Marie  and  fondly  loved  and  cherished  of  the 
King. 

Myself  once  saw  the  fair  Duchesse  de  Valentinois  (Diane 
de  Poitiers)  at  the  age  of  seventy,  as  fair  of  face,  as  fresh- 
looking  and  lovable  as  at  thirty ;  and  verily  she  was  well 
loved  and  courted  by  one  of  the  greatest  and  most  gallant 
Kings  in  all  the  world.  I  may  tell  her  age  frankly,  with- 
out wrong  to  the  beauty  of  this  fair  lady,  seeing  whenever 
a  lady  is  loved  of  a  great  King,  'tis  sure  sign  perfection 

[319] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


doth  abundantly  reside  in  her,  and  make  her  dear  to  him. 
And  surely  that  beauty  which  is  given  of  heaven  should 
never  be  spared  in  favour  of  heaven's  demigods. 

I  saw  this  lady,  six  months  before  she  died,  still  so  very 
fair  I  can  imagine  no  heart  so  flinty  as  not  to  have  been 
stirred  thereby,  and  though  a  while  before  she  had  broke 
a  leg  on  the  stony  pavement  of  Orleans,  riding  and  sitting 
her  horse  as  lightly  and  cleverly  as  she  had  ever  done. 
But  the  horse  slipped  and  fell  under  her;  and  for  this 
broken  limb,  and  all  the  pains  and  sufferings  she  did  en- 
dure, one  would  have  thought  her  fair  face  must  have  been 
changed.  But  nothing  of  the  sort,  for  her  beauty,  grace, 
majesty  and  gallant  mien  were  just  what  they  had  ever 
been.  And  above  all,  she  did  possess  an  extraordinary 
whiteness  of  skin,  without  any  recourse  had  to  paint; 
only  'tis  said  that  every  morning  she  did  employ  certain 
washes  compounded  of  spring  water  and  sundry  drugs, 
the  which  I  cannot  name  like  good  doctors  or  cunning 
apothecaries  can.  I  do  believe  that  if  this  fair  lady  had 
lived  yet  another  hundred  years,  she  would  never  have 
aged,  whether  in  face,  so  excellently  framed  was  it,  or  in 
body,  the  parts  covered  and  concealed  that  is,  of  such 
excellent  temper  and  good  condition  was  this.  The  pity 
is  earth  should  ever  cover  these  beauteous  forms  ! 

Likewise  myself  have  seen  the  Marquise  de  Rothelin,8 
mother  of  the  Dowager  Princess  de  Conde  and  the  late 
deceased  M.  de  Longueville,  in  no  wise  diminished  of  her 
beauty  by  time  or  age,  but  keeping  the  fresh  flower  of 
her  youth  as  aforetime,  except  only  that  her  face  did  grow 
something  redder  toward  the  end.  Yet  did  her  beautiful 
eyes,  that  were  unmatched  in  all  the  world,  and  which  her 

[320] 


r/WMMr/iw«wAw«w»Yii/»it^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


uvww:i»t]iw^v8<ai8«i^t^!^^ 


daughter  hath  inherited,  never  alter,  but  were  to  the  last 
as  meet  to  wound  hearts  as  ever. 

Another  I  have  seen  in  like  case  was  Madame  de  la  Bour- 
daisiere,4  afterward  by  a  second  marriage  wife  to  the 
Marechal  d'Aumont.  This  lady  in  her  later  days  was  so 
fair  to  look  on  you  would  have  said  she  was  in  her  early 
youth  still,  and  her  five  daughters,  all  beautiful  women, 
did  in  no  wise  eclipse  her.  And  readily  enough,  if  the 
choice  had  been  to  make,  would  a  man  have  left  the  daugh- 
ters to  take  the  mother  in  preference ;  yet  had  she  borne  a 
number  of  children.  And  truly  of  all  women  she  did 
most  take  heed  of  her  good  looks,  for  she  was  a  mortal 
enemy  of  the  night  damp  and  moonlight,  and  did  avoid 
these  all  ever  she  could.  The  ordinary  use  of  paint  for 
the  face,  practised  by  so  many  ladies,  was  quite  unknown 
to  her. 

I  have  also  seen,  and  this  is  a  more  striking  instance 
still,  Madame  de  Mareuil,  mother  of  the  Marquise  de 
Mezieres  and  grandmother  of  the  Princess-Dauphin,  at 
the  age  of  an  hundred,  at  which  she  died,  looking  as  fresh 
and  upright,  as  alert,  healthy  and  comely  as  at  fifty. 
She  had  been  a  very  handsome  woman  in  her  younger 
days. 

Her  daughter,  the  Marquise  de  Mezieres  named  above, 
was  of  like  sort  and  died  in  the  like  good  case,  but  she 
was  twenty  years  younger  when  this  took  place,  and  her 
figure  had  shrunk  somewhat.  She  was  aunt  of  Mme.  de 
Bourdeille,  my  elder  brother's  wife,  and  did  bring  him  the 
like  excellent  qualities.  For  albeit  she  have  passed  her  fifty- 
third  year  and  hath  had  fourteen  children,  one  may  truth- 
fully say  this, — and  others  which  see  her  are  of  better 
judgment  than  I,  and  do  assure  me  of  the  fact, — that  the 

[321] 


^BffWfflgwffiggigfi!^^ 
LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

!&yiii^)ama&afea^^ 

four  daughters  she  hath  by  her  side  do  look  like  her  own 
sisters.  So  do  we  often  see  winter  fruits,  and  relics  of  the 
past  season,  match  those  of  Summer  itself,  and  keep  their 
sweetness,  and  be  as  fine  and  savour  as  these,  and  even 
more. 

The  Amirale  de  Brion  too,  and  her  daughter,  Mme. 
de  Barbezieux,5  did  continue  very  handsome  women  to 
quite  old  age. 

I  have  been  told  of  late  how  that  the  fair  Paule  de  Tou- 
louse,6 so  renowned  of  old  days,  is  yet  as  beautiful  as  ever, 
though  she  is  now  eighty-four,  and  no  change  is  to  be  seen, 
whether  in  her  fine,  tall  figure  or  her  beautiful  face. 

Another  I  have  seen  is  the  Presidente  de  Conte,  of  Bor- 
deaux, of  equal  age  and  equal  beauty,  in  all  ways  most 
lovable  and  desirable ;  and  indeed  she  was  a  woman  of  many 
perfections.  Many  other  such  could  I  name,  but  I  should 
never  have  done. 

A  young  Spanish  knight  speaking  of  love  to  a  lady  of 
advanced  age,  but  still  handsome,  she  did  make  him  this 
answer:  A  mis  completas  desta  manera  me  habla  V.  M.f 
"How  can  you  speak  so  to  my  complines?" — meaning 
to  signify  by  complines  her  age  and  the  decline  of  her  best 
days,  and  the  approach  of  night.  The  knight  did  reply: 
Sus  completas  valen  mas,  y  son  mas  graciosas  que  las 
horas  de  prima  de  qualquier  otra  dama,  "Your  complines 
are  better  worth,  and  more  fair  and  delectable  than  the 
hours  of  prime  of  any  other  lady."  A  very  pretty  conceit 
surely ! 

Another  speaking  in  like  wise  of  love  to  a  lady  of  ripe 
years,  and  she  making  objection  to  him  of  her  withered 
beauty, — which  yet  was  not  over  and  above  so, — did  thus 

[322] 


Baflgsffiafflftffiaiaffiaffi^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


^a^^JiSS^Miiymvs^i^^ 


answer  her :  A  las  visperas  se  conoce  la  fiesta, — "at  vespers 
is  the  feast  at  its  best." 


4. 

]E  have  yet  among  us  to  this  day  Madame  de 
Nemours,  of  yore  in  the  April  of  her  beauty 
the  wonder  of  the  world,  which  doth  still  defy 
all  devastating  time.  I  may  truly  say  of  her, 
as  may  all  that  have  seen  her  with  me,  that  she  was  erst 
the  fairest  dame,  in  her  blooming  days,  in  all  Christen- 
dom. I  did  see  her  one  day  dance,  as  I  have  told  else- 
where, with  the  Queen  of  Scots,  they  twain  all  alone  to- 
gether and  without  any  other  ladies  to  bear  them  com- 
pany, by  way  of  a  caprice,  so  that  all  such,  men  and 
women,  as  did  behold  them  knew  not  to  which  to  adjudge 
the  palm  of  beauty.  Verily,  as  one  said  at  the  time,  you 
would  have  thought  them  those  two  suns  which  we  read  in 
Pliny  to  have  once  appeared  together  in  the  sky,  to  dazzle 
the  world.  Madame  de  Nemours,  at  that  time  Madame 
de  Guise,  did  show  the  more  luxurious  figure ;  and  if  it  be 
allowed  me  so  to  say  without  offence  to  the  Queen  of 
Scots,  she  had  the  more  imposing  and  apparent  dignity 
of  port,  albeit  she  was  not  a  Queen  like  the  other.  But 
then  she  was  grand-daughter  of  that  great  King,1  the 
father  of  his  people,  whom  she  did  resemble  in  many  of  her 
features,  as  I  have  seen  him  portrayed  in  the  gallery  of 
the  Queen  of  Navarre,  showing  in  every  look  the  great 
monarch  he  was. 

I  think  I  was  the  first  which  did  call  her  by  this  name  of 
Grand-daughter  of  the  great  King,  Father  of  his  People. 
This  was  at  Lyons,  time  when  the  King  did  return  out  of 

[323] 


BraffnmralTraBf^wraByaSraig^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

'Afea^iiyfflysiMii^yti^^ 

Poland ;  and  often  would  I  call  her  so,  and  she  did  me  the 
honour  to  deem  it  well,  and  like  it  at  my  hands.  She  was 
in  very  deed  a  true  grand-daughter  of  that  great  King, 
and  especially  in  goodness  of  heart  and  beauty.  For  she 
was  ever  very  good-hearted,  and  few  or  none  are  to  be 
found  that  she  ever  did  ill  or  displeasure  to,  while  many 
did  win  great  advantage  in  the  time  of  her  favour,  that  is 
to  say  in  the  time  of  her  late  husband,  Monsieur  de  Guise, 
which  did  enjoy  high  consideration  in  France.  Thus 
were  there  two  very  noble  perfections  united  in  this  lady, 
goodness  and  beauty,  and  both  of  these  hath  she  right 
well  maintained  to  this  present  day,  and  by  their  means 
hath  married  two  most  honourable  husbands,  and  two  that 
few  or  none  at  all  could  have  been  found  to  match.  And 
indeed,  and  if  another  could  be  found  of  like  sort  and 
worthy  of  her,  and  if  she  did  wish  for  a  third,  she  might 
well  enjoy  one  more,  so  fair  is  she  yet. 

And  'tis  a  fact  that  in  Italy  folk  do  hold  the  ladies  of 
Ferrara  for  good  and  tasty  morsels, — whence  hath  come 
the  saying,  potto,  ferraresa,  just  as  they  say,  cazzo  man- 
tuano  (a  Mantua  verge).  As  to  this,  when  once  a  great 
Lord  of  that  country  was  making  court  to  a  great  and 
beauteous  Princess  of  France,  and  they  were  all  com- 
mending him  at  Court  for  his  excellent  merits,  valiance 
and  the  high  qualities  which  did  make  him  deserving  of 
her  favours,  there  was  one,  the  late  M.  d'Au,2  Captain  of 
the  Scottish  Guards,  which  did  come  nearer  the  point 
than  any  with  these  words,  "Nay !  you  do  forget  the  chief 
of  all,  his  cazzo  mantuano  to  wit." 

I  did  once  hear  a  like  speech,  how  when  the  Duke  of 
Mantua,  which  was  nicknamed  the  Gobin  (Hunchback), 
because  he  was  excessively  hunchbacked,  was  desirous  of 

[324] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


wedding  the  sister  of  the  Emperor  Maximilian,  the  lady 
was  told  that  he  was  so  sadly  deformed.  But  she  only 
made  answer,  as  'tis  said:  Non  importa  purche  la  cam- 
pana  habbia  qualche  diffetto,  ma  ch'  el  sonaglio  sia  buono 
("No  matter  if  the  bell  have  some  flaw,  provided  the  clap- 
per be  good"),  —  meaning  thereby  this  same  cazzo  man- 
tuano.  Some  indeed  aver  she  did  never  say  the  thing  at 
all,  seeing  she  was  too  modest  and  well  brought  up  ;  but  at 
any  rate  others  did  say  it  for  her. 

But  to  return  to  this  same  Princess  of  Ferrara,  I  did 
see  her  at  the  marriage  of  the  late  M.  de  Joyeuse  appear 
clad  in  a  mantle  of  the  Italian  fashion,  the  sleeves  drawn 
back  half  way  up  the  arms  in  the  Siennese  mode.  But 
there  was  no  lady  there  which  could  outshine  her,  and  no 
man  but  said:  "This  fair  Princess  cannot  make  herself 
any  fairer,  so  fair  is  she  already.  And  'tis  easy  to  judge 
by  her  beauteous  face  that  she  hath  other  hidden  beauties 
of  great  charm  and  parts  which  are  not  seen.  Just  as  by 
looking  at  the  noble  fa9ade  of  a  fine  building,  'tis  easy  to 
judge  that  within  there  be  fair  chambers,  antechambers 
and  closets,  fair  alcoves  and  privy  places."  In  many 
another  spot  likewise  hath  she  displayed  her  beauty,  and 
no  long  while  since,  in  this  autumn  of  her  days,  and  espe- 
cially in  Spain  at  the  marriage  of  Monsieur  and  Madame 
de  Savoie,  in  such  wise  that  the  admiration  of  her  and 
her  charms  did  remain  graven  in  that  land  for  all  time. 
And  if  my  pen  had  wings  of  power  and  range  enough  to 
raise  her  to  the  skies,  right  gladly  would  I  devote  it  to 
the  task;  but  'tis  too  weak  for  such  emprise.  Yet  will  I 
speak  of  her  again  later.  No  doubt  is  there  but  this 
Princess  was  a  very  beautiful  woman  in  her  Springtide, 

[325] 


rAsmir»irAYi!»\itfc\i&8rt^^ 


JtJWI»4l»4t^!^^!^lilill^!J|{l^!^^ 


her  Summer  and  Autumn,  yea !  and  is  still  in  her  Winter, 
albeit  she  hath  had  many  griefs  and  many  children. 

The  worst  of  it  is  that  the  Italians,  scorning  a  woman 
which  hath  had  a  number  of  children,  do  call  such  an  one 
scrofa,  that  is  to  say  a  "sow."  But  surely  they  which  do 
bear  handsome,  gallant  and  noble  sons,  as  did  this  Prin- 
cess, are  praiseworthy,  and  do  in  no  wise  merit  this  ugly 
name,  but  rather  that  of  heaven's  favourites. 

I  will  only  add  this  remark :  What  a  strange  and  won- 
drous inconsistency  is  here,  that  the  thing  of  all  others 
most  fickle  and  inconsistent  doth  offer  such  resistance  to 
time,  to  wit  a  pretty  woman!  'Tis  not  I  which  do  say 
this;  sorry  should  I  be  to  do  so.  For  truly  I  do  esteem 
highly  the  constancy  of  many  of  the  sex,  nor  are  all  incon- 
stant. 'Tis  from  another  I  borrow  the  remark. 

I  would  gladly  adduce  the  names  of  ladies  of  other 
lands,  as  well  as  of  our  own,  that  have  still  been  fair  in 
their  Autumn  and  Winter;  but  for  this  while  I  will  men- 
tion two  only  in  this  class. 

One  is  the  good  Queen  Elizabeth  of  England,  the  which 
is  reigning  at  this  day,  and  who  they  tell  me  is  as  fair  as 
ever.  If  this  be  true,  I  do  hold  her  for  a  very  fair  and 
beauteous  Princess ;  for  myself  have  seen  her  in  her  Sum- 
mertide  and  in  her  Autumn  season.  As  for  her  Winter, 
she  doth  now  approach  near  the  same,  if  she  be  not  there 
already ;  for  'tis  long  ago  I  did  see  her,  and  the  first  time 
ever  I  saw  her,  I  know  what  age  they  did  give  her  then. 
I  do  believe  what  hath  kept  her  so  long  in  her  prime  of 
beauty  is  that  she  hath  never  been  wed,  nor  borne  the 
burden  of  marriage,  the  which  is  a  very  grievous  one, 
above  all  when  a  woman  hath  many  children.  The  said 
Queen  is  deserving  of  all  praise  on  all  accounts,  were  it 

[326] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


%mmuim^^^mw£^'^i^'&£^ig£'£'--- 


not  for  the  death  of  that  gallant,  beautiful  and  peerless 
Princess,  the  Queen  of  Scots,  the  which  hath  sore  stained 
her  good  repute. 


5. 

HE  second  foreign  Princess  I  shall  name  is  the 
Marquise  de  Gouast,  Donna  Maria  of  Ara- 
gon,  which  lady  myself  have  seen  still  very 
beautiful  in  her  final  season.  And  I  will  show 
this  in  an  account,  the  which  I  will  abridge  all  ever  I  can. 
After  the  death  of  King  Henri1  of  France,  one  month 
later  died  also  Pope  Paul  IV.,2  Caraffa,  and  it  became 
needful  for  the  election  of  a  new  Pope  that  all  the  Car- 
dinals should  meet  together.  Amongst  others  there  came 
from  France  the  Cardinal  de  Guise,  and  did  fare  to  Rome 
by  sea  with  the  King's  galleys,  whereof  the  General  was 
Fran9ois  de  Lorraine,  Grand  Prior  of  France,  brother 
of  the  said  Cardinal,  who  did  convoy  him,  as  a  good 
brother  should,  with  a  fleet  of  sixteen  galleys.  And  they 
did  make  such  good  speed  and  with  so  fine  a  wind  astern, 
as  that  they  did  arrive  in  two  days  and  two  nights  at 
Civita  Vecchia,  and  from  there  presently  to  Rome.  But 
being  come  thither,  the  Grand  Prior  seeing  they  were  not 
yet  ready  to  proceed  to  the  new  election  (and  as  a  fact  it 
was  yet  three  months  more  a-doing),  and  that  accord- 
ingly his  brother  could  not  at  present  return,  and  his 
galleys  were  but  lying  idle  in  port  meantime,  he  did  deter- 
mine to  go  on  to  Naples  to  see  that  town  and  spend  his 
leisure  there. 

So  on  his  arrival,  the  Viceroy,  at  that  time  the  Duke 
of  Alcala,  did  receive  him  as  if  he  had  been  a  King.    But 

[327] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


before  his  actual  arrival  he  did  salute  the  town  with  a 
very  fine  salvo  of  artillery  which  did  last  a  great  while; 
and  the  same  honour  was  repaid  him  by  the  town  and  its 
forts,  so  as  you  would  have  said  the  very  heavens  were 
strangely  thundering  during  the  said  cannonade.  And 
keeping  his  galleys  in  line  of  battle  and  review  order,  and 
at  some  distance  to  seaward,  he  did  despatch  in  a  skiff 
M.  de  1'Estrange,  a  gentleman  of  Languedoc,  a  very  dis- 
creet and  honourable  man,  and  one  which  could  speak 
very  gracefully,  to  the  Viceroy,  to  the  end  he  might  not 
startle  him,  and  to  ask  his  leave  (seeing  that  albeit  we 
were  at  peace  and  on  the  best  of  terms  we  did  come  with 
all  the  terrors  of  war)  to  enter  the  harbour,  for  to  see 
the  town  and  visit  the  sepulchres  of  his  ancestors  which 
were  there  interred,  and  cast  holy  water  upon  them  and 
make  a  prayer. 

This  the  Viceroy  did  accord  very  readily.  Then  did 
the  Grand  Prior  advance  and  renew  the  salvo  with  as  fine 
and  furious  a  cannonade  as  before,  both  with  the  main- 
deck  guns  and  his  sixteen  galleys  and  other  pieces  of  ord- 
nance and  with  arquebus  fire,  in  such  wise  that  all  his 
fleet  was  a  mass  of  flame.  So  did  he  make  entry  most 
proudly  to  the  mole,  with  standards  and  pennants  flying, 
and  dressed  with  flags  of  crimson  silk,  and  his  own  of 
damask,  and  with  all  the  galley-slaves  clad  in  crimson 
velvet,  and  the  soldiers  of  his  body-guard  the  same,  and 
wearing  short  cloaks  covered  with  silver  broidery.  The 
commander  of  these  was  Captain  Geoffroy,  a  Proven9al 
and  a  brave  and  gallant  soldier.  Altogether  our  French 
galleys  were  found  of  all  right  fine,  swift  and  well  careened 
and  above  all  the  "Ship  Royal,"  to  the  which  never  a  fault 

[328] 


MtfiftftftftftM^^ 

LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


could  be  found ;  for  indeed  this  Prince  was  in  all  ways 
exceeding  magnificent  and  right  liberal. 

So  being  come  to  the  mole  in  this  gallant  array,  he  did 
there  land  and  all  we  his  suite  with  him,  at  a  spot  where 
the  Viceroy  had  commanded  to  have  ready  horses  and 
coaches  for  to  receive  us  and  carry  us  to  the  town.  And 
truly  we  did  there  find  an  hundred  steeds, — coursers,  jen- 
nets, Spaniards,  barbs  and  other  horses,  each  finer  than 
the  other,  with  saddle-cloths  of  velvet  all  wrought  with 
broidery,  some  silver  and  some  gold.  He  that  would  ride 
a-horse  did  so,  and  he  that  preferred  to  go  in  a  coach, 
found  one  ready,  for  there  were  a  score  there  of  the  finest 
and  richest,  excellently  horsed  and  drawn  by  the  finest 
cattle  ever  seen.  There  too  stood  many  great  Princes 
and  Lords,  as  well  of  the  Kingdom  of  Naples  as  of  Spain, 
which  did  welcome  the  Grand  Prior  most  honourably  on 
behalf  of  the  Viceroy.  On  landing  he  did  mount  a  Span- 
ish horse,  the  finest  I  have  seen  for  many  a  long  day, 
which  the  Viceroy  did  after  present  to  him ;  and  did  man- 
age him  right  well,  and  make  him  perform  some  brilliant 
curvets,  as  was  much  spoke  of  at  the  time.  The  Prince, 
who  was  a  very  good  horseman,  as  good  indeed  as  he  was 
a  seaman,  did  make  a  very  fine  show  thus  mounted ;  and  he 
did  display  his  horse's  paces  to  the  best  advantage,  and 
in  most  graceful  style,  seeing  he  was  one  of  the  hand- 
somest Princes  of  his  day,  and  one  of  the  most  pleasant 
and  accomplished,  and  of  a  fine,  tall  and  active  figure, — 
which  is  a  rare  thing  with  suchlike  great  personages. 
Thus  was  he  conducted  by  all  these  Lords  and  many 
another  noble  gentleman  to  the  Viceroy's  Palace,  where 
this  last  did  await  him  and  paid  him  all  possible  honour, 
and  lodged  him  in  his  own  house,  and  did  feast  him  most 

[329] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


W*WM^fiAYir/8fltr^^ 


t^!^i^Bisiji<i8Bii^!^ 


sumptuously,  both  him  and  all  his  band.  This  he  was 
well  able  to  do,  seeing  he  did  profit  him  by  twenty  thou- 
sand crowns  through  this  journey.  We  were,  I  daresay, 
a  couple  of  hundred  gentlemen  that  were  with  him,  Cap- 
tain of  galleys  and  others,  and  were  lodged  with  most  of 
the  great  Lords  of  the  city,  and  that  most  sumptuously. 
First  thing  in  the  morning,  on  coming  out  from  our 
chambers,  we  did  find  attendants  so  well  appointed  as  that 
they  would  present  themselves  instantly  to  ask  what  we 
were  fain  to  do,  and  whither  we  would  go  to  take  our 
pleasure.  And  if  we  did  call  for  horses  or  coaches,  in  a 
moment,  our  wish  was  no  sooner  expressed  than  satisfied. 
So  they  would  away  at  once  to  seek  whatever  mount  we 
did  crave,  and  all  these  so  fine,  rich  and  magnificent  as 
might  have  contented  a  King;  and  then  off  on  our  way 
to  take  our  day's  pleasure,  in  such  wise  as  each  did  pre- 
fer. In  very  fact  were  we  well  nigh  spoiled  by  excess  of 
enjoyment  and  all  delights  in  that  fair  city;  nor  can  we 
say  there  was  any  lack  of  such,  for  indeed  I  have  never 
seen  a  town  better  supplied  therewith  in  every  sort.  One 
alone  was  wanting,  to  wit  the  familiar  converse,  frank 
and  free,  with  ladies  of  honour  and  repute, — for  of  others 
there  was  enough  and  to  spare.  But  the  defect  was  well 
and  wisely  remedied  for  the  time  being  by  the  complaisance 
of  this  same  Marquise  de  Gouast,  in  whose  honour  is  the 
present  discourse  writ.  For  she,  being  a  right  courteous 
lady  and  full  of  all  honourable  feeling,  and  well  fitting 
the  nobility  of  her  house,  having  heard  the  high  repute 
of  the  Grand  Prior  for  all  the  perfections  that  were  in 
him,  and  having  seen  him  pass  through  the  city  on  horse- 
back and  recognized  his  worth,  as  is  meet  between  folk  of 
high  station  toward  one  another,  with  the  magnanimity 

[330] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


she  did  ever  show  in  all  things,  did  send  one  day  a  very 
honourable  and  well  mannered  gentleman  of  her  attend- 
ance to  greet  the  Prince  from  her,  charging  him  to  say, 
that  if  her  sex  and  the  custom  of  the  country  had  suf- 
fered her  to  visit  him,  she  would  right  gladly  have  come 
very  readily  to  offer  him  her  best  services,  as  all  the  great 
Lords  of  the  Kingdom  had  done.  But  she  did  beg  him  to 
take  the  will  for  the  deed,  offering  him  the  use  of  her 
houses,  castles  and  her  best  service  in  all  things. 

The  Grand  Prior,  who  was  courtesy  itself,  did  thank 
her  most  heartily,  as  was  but  meet;  and  did  send  word 
how  that  he  would  come  to  kiss  her  hands  straightway 
after  dinner.  And  this  he  did  not  fail  to  do,  accompanied 
by  all  of  us  gentlemen  which  were  with  him  in  his  suite. 
We  did  find  the  Marquise  in  her  guest  hall  along  with  her 
two  daughters,  Donna  Antonina  and  Donna  Hieronima, — 
or  was  it  Donna  Joanna?  for  indeed  I  cannot  say  for 
sure,  it  having  now  slipped  my  memory, — as  well  as  many 
other  fair  dames  and  damsels,  so  richly  apparelled  and 
of  such  a  charming  grace  as  that  I  have  never,  outside 
our  own  Court  of  France  and  that  of  Spain,  seen  else- 
where a  more  beauteous  band  of  fair  ladies. 

Then  did  the  Marquise  salute  the  Grand  Prior  in  the 
French  fashion  and  did  welcome  him  with  every  mark  of 
honour;  and  he  did  return  the  same,  even  yet  more  hum- 
bly,— con  mas  gran  sosiego  (with  the  very  greatest  re- 
spect), as  they  say  in  Spanish.  Their  discourse  was  for 
the  present  of  mere  commonplaces;  while  the  rest  of  us, 
such  as  could  speak  Italian  or  Spanish,  did  accost  the 
other  ladies,  whom  we  did  find  most  honourable  and  gal- 
lant, and  of  very  pleasing  conversation. 

On  our  departure,  the  Marquise,  having  learned  from 

[331] 


4        •         •         •        .         *         .         4         .         .         .         •         .         .         44444         4         444         4         »         4 


y^!wmHmvga^i^w5^4;^!^t^ 


the  Grand  Prior  that  he  did  purpose  to  make  a  stay  of  a 
fortnight  in  the  place,  said  thus  to  him:  "Sir,  if  at  any 
time  you  know  not  what  to  do  and  are  in  lack  of  pastime, 
your  coming  hither  will  ever  do  me  much  honour,  and  you 
shall  be  most  welcome,  as  it  were  at  the  house  of  your  own 
lady  mother;  and  I  beg  you  to  use  the  same  precisely  as 
though  it  were  your  own,  neither  more  nor  less.  I  have 
the  good  fortune  to  be  loved  and  visited  by  honourable 
and  fair  dames  of  this  Kingdom  and  city  as  much  as  any 
lady  therein;  and  seeing  your  youth  and  merit  do  set 
you  to  love  the  conversation  of  honourable  ladies,  I  will 
beseech  them  to  resort  hither  yet  more  frequently  than 
they  do  use,  to  bear  you  company  and  all  the  fair  and 
noble  gentlefolk  which  be  with  you.  Here  stand  my  two 
daughters,  the  which  I  will  direct,  albeit  they  are  not  so 
well  accomplished  as  they  should  be,  to  bear  you  company 
after  the  French  fashion,  to  wit  to  laugh,  dance,  play  and 
talk  freely,  modestly  and  honourably,  even  as  you  do  at 
the  Court  of  France.  And  I  would  gladly  enough  offer 
myself  for  one;  only  'twould  be  very  irksome  to  a  young 
Prince,  handsome  and  gallant  like  yourself,  to  have  to 
entertain  an  old  woman,  worn  out,  tiresome  and  unlovable 
such  as  I.  For  verily  and  indeed  youth  and  age  do 
scarce  accord  well  together." 

These  words  the  Grand  Prior  did  straightway  take 
objection  to,  assuring  her  that  old  age  had  gat  no  hold 
at  all  upon  her,  and  that  he  would  never  hear  of  any  such 
thing,  but  that  her  Autumn  did  overpass  all  the  Spring- 
tides and  Summers  that  were  in  that  hall.  And  truly  she 
did  still  seem  a  very  handsome  and  very  lovable  woman, 
yea !  even  more  than  her  two  daughters,  pretty  and  young 
as  these  were.  Yet  was  she  then  very  nigh  sixty  good 

[332] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


L\wy*m.vwp®mv»mx!Mi^»/.  »..-.•»  .  •    »    •    •    ......  :»  ..  :.    .    •    ...  ;•»...,» 


years  old.  This  little  speech  of  the  Prince  did  much 
pleasure  the  Marquise,  as  we  could  easily  see  by  her 
laughing  face  and  all  her  words  and  ways. 

We  did  leave  her  house  exceeding  delighted  with  the 
lady, — and  above  all  the  Grand  Prior  himself,  who  had 
instantly  fallen  in  love  with  her,  as  he  did  inform  us. 
Little  doubt  then  but  this  fair  and  honourable  lady,  and 
her  fair  band  of  attendant  dames,  did  draw  the  Grand 
Prior  to  resort  every  day  to  her  house;  for  indeed  if  we 
went  not  there  after  dinner,  we  did  so  in  the  evening. 
The  Prince  did  take  for  mistress  her  eldest  daughter, 
albeit  he  did  better  love  the  mother;  but  'twas  done  per 
adumbrar  la  cosa, — "to  veil  the  matter." 

Tiltings  at  the  ring  were  held  in  plenty,  whereat  the 
Grand  Prior  did  bear  away  the  prize,  as  well  as  many 
ballets  and  dances.  In  a  word,  the  gay  society  he  did 
enjoy  was  the  cause  of  this,  that  whereas  he  had  pur- 
posed to  tarry  but  a  fortnight,  we  were  there  for  a  good 
six  weeks.  Nor  were  we  in  any  wise  irked  thereby,  for 
we  had  likewise  gotten  us  mistresses  no  less  than  our  Gen- 
eral. Nay!  we  had  certainly  remained  longer  still,  had 
not  a  courier  come  from  the  King,  bringing  him  news  of 
the  breaking  out  of  the  war  in  Spain.  For  this  cause  he 
had  to  weigh  anchor  and  carry  his  galleys  from  the 
Eastern  shore  to  the  Western,  though  in  fact  they  did 
not  cross  over  till  eight  months  later. 

So  had  we  to  take  leave  of  all  these  delightsome  pleas- 
ures, and  quit  the  good  and  gracious  town  of  Naples ;  and 
truly  'twas  not  without  great  sadness  and  many  regrets 
to  our  General  and  all  of  us,  but  we  were  right  sorry  to 
leave  a  place  where  we  had  been  so  happy. 

At  the  end  of  some  six  years,  or  mayhap  longer,  when 

[333] 


rjAirr*Y»Y«wwr«^\ii)*\ir/8^ 


WAmSii*y}S!!l&^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


we  were  on  our  way  to  the  succour  of  Malta,  I  was  again 
at  Naples  and  did  make  enquiry  if  the  aforesaid  fair  lady 
were  yet  alive.  I  was  told  yes !  and  that  she  was  in  that 
town.  Instantly  I  made  a  point  of  going  to  see  her ;  and 
was  immediately  recognized  by  an  old  seneschal  of  her 
house,  which  did  away  to  tell  his  mistress  that  I  was  fain 
to  kiss  her  hands.  She,  remembering  my  name  of  Bour- 
deille,  did  summon  me  up  to  her  chamber  to  see  her.  I 
found  her  keeping  her  bed,  by  reason  of  a  slight  rash  she 
had  on  one  of  her  cheeks.  She  did  make  me,  I  swear,  a 
right  excellent  welcome.  I  did  find  her  very  little  changed, 
and  still  so  handsome  a  woman  she  might  well  have  made 
any  man  commit  a  mortal  sin,  whether  in  will  or  deed. 

She  did  ask  me  eagerly  for  news  of  my  late  General 
the  Grand  Prior,  and  lovingly,  and  how  he  had  died ;  and 
saying  she  had  been  told  how  that  he  had  been  poisoned, 
did  curse  an  hundred  times  over  the  wretch  that  had  done 
the  deed.  I  told  her  'twas  not  so,  and  bade  her  disabuse 
her  fancy  of  any  such  idea,  informing  her  how  he  had  died 
really  of  a  treacherous  and  secret  pleurisy  he  had  caught 
at  the  battle  of  Dreux,  where  he  had  fought  like  a  Cassar 
all  day  long.  But  at  evening,  after  the  last  charge,  being 
greatly  heated  by  fight  and  a-sweat,  and  then  withdraw- 
ing on  a  night  of  the  most  bitter  hard  frost,  he  was 
chilled  to  the  bone.  He  did  conceal  his  sickness,  and  died 
of  it  a  month  or  six  weeks  afterward. 

She  did  manifest,  both  by  words  and  manner,  her  deep 
regret  for  him.  And  note  now,  two  or  three  years  before 
this,  he  had  despatched  two  galleys  on  a  freebooting  ex- 
pedition under  the  charge  of  Captain  Beaulieu,  one  of 
the  Lieutenants  of  his  galleys.  He  had  adopted  the  flag 
of  the  Queen  of  Scots,  one  which  had  never  been  seen  or 

[334] 


r?!ffifi«vir7Kirfcmw^^^^ 


imaai^iJlS^^iJlSliS^^ 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 


known  in  the  Eastern  seas,  and  which  did  cause  folk  much 
amaze;  for  'twas  out  of  the  question  to  take  that  of 
France,  because  of  the  alliance  with  the  Turks.  Now 
the  Grand  Prior  had  given  orders  to  the  said  Captain 
Beaulieu  to  land  at  Naples  and  pay  a  visit  on  his  behalf 
to  the  Marquise  de  Gouast  and  her  daughters,  to  which 
three  ladies  he  did  send  by  his  hand  an  host  of  presents, 
all  the  little  novelties  then  in  vogue  at  the  Court  and 
Palace,  in  Paris  and  in  France  generally.  Indeed  this 
same  noble  Grand  Prior  was  ever  the  soul  of  generosity 
and  magnificence.  This  task  Captain  Beaulieu  did  not 
fail  to  perform,  and  did  present  all  his  master's  gifts; 
himself  was  most  excellently  received,  and  rewarded  by  a 
fine  present  for  his  mission. 

The  Marquise  did  feel  such  obligation  for  these  gifts 
and  for  that  he  had  continued  to  remember  her,  that  she 
did  tell  me  again  and  again  how  gratified  she  had  been 
and  how  she  had  loved  him  yet  more  than  afore  for  his 
goodness.  Again  for  love  of  him,  she  did  a  graceful 
courtesy  to  a  gentleman  of  Gascony,  which  was  at  that 
time  an  officer  in  the  galleys  of  the  Grand  Prior.  This 
gentleman  was  left  behind,  when  we  set  sail,  sick  unto 
death.  But  so  kind  was  fortune  to  him,  that  addressing 
himself  to  the  said  lady  in  his  adversity,  he  was  so  well 
succoured  of  her  that  his  life  was  saved.  She  did  take 
him  in  her  household,  and  did  serve  him  so  well,  as  that 
a  Captaincy  falling  vacant  in  one  of  her  Castles,  she  did 
bestow  the  same  on  him,  and  procured  him  to  marry  a 
rich  wife  to  boot. 

None  of  the  rest  of  us  were  aware  what  had  become  of 
the  poor  gentleman,  and  we  deemed  him  dead.  But  lo !  at 
the  time  of  this  latter  voyage  to  Malta,  there  was  amongst 

[335] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

jBSSMI^^gMlMIMlMlMIMl^^ 

us  a  gentleman,  younger  brother  of  him  I  spake  of,  which 
did  one  day  in  heedless  talk  tell  me  of  the  main  occasion 
for  his  going  abroad.  This  he  said  was  to  seek  news  of  a 
brother  of  his  that  had  formerly  been  in  the  service  of 
the  Grand  Prior,  and  had  tarried  behind  sick  at  Naples 
more  than  six  years  before  and  had  never  been  heard  of 
since.  Then  did  I  bethink  me,  and  presently  did  make 
enquiry  for  news  of  him  of  the  folk  belonging  to  the  Mar- 
quise. These  told  me  of  his  good  fortune,  and  I  did  at 
once  inform  the  younger  brother.  The  latter  did  thank 
me  very  heartily,  and  accompanied  me  to  pay  his  respects 
to  the  said  lady,  who  did  take  him  into  great  favour  also, 
and  went  to  visit  him  at  his  lodging. 

Truly  a  pretty  gratitude  and  remembrance  of  a  friend- 
ship of  old  days, — which  remembrance  she  did  still  cher- 
ish, as  I  have  said.  For  she  did  make  me  even  better 
cheer  than  before,  and  did  entertain  me  with  tales  of  the 
old  happy  time  and  many  other  subjects, — all  which  did 
make  me  to  find  her  company  very  pleasant  and  agree- 
able. For  she  was  of  a  good  intelligence  and  bright  wit, 
and  an  excellent  talker. 

She  did  beseech  me  an  hundred  times  over  to  take  no 
other  lodging  or  meal  but* with  her;  but  to  this  I  would 
never  consent,  it  not  being  my  nature  ever  to  be  impor- 
tunate or  "self-seeking.  But  I  did  use  to  go  and  visit  her 
every  day  for  the  seven  or  eight  days  we  did  tarry  there, 
and  I  was  always  most  welcome,  and  her  chamber  ever 
open  to  me  without  any  difficulty. 

When  at  last  I  bade  her  adieu,  she  did  give  me  letters 
of  recommendation  to  her  son,  the  Marquis  de  Pescai're, 
General  at  that  time  in  the  Spanish  army.  Besides  which, 
she  did  make  me  promise  that  on  my  return  I  would  come 

[336] 


MWWtftfSfftf&ti^^ 

LIVES     OF    FAIR    AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

•jgi|j^^ak4tBilfll&g!&£tByi||tVM^ 

to  see  her,  and  take  up  my  lodging  in  no  other  house  but 
hers. 

However  so  great  was  my  ill  luck  that  the  galleys  which 
did  carry  us  did  land  us  only  at  Terracina,  from  whence 
we  hied  to  Rome,  and  I  was  unable  to  retrace  my  steps. 
Moreover  I  was  fain  at  that  time  to  join  the  wars  in 
Hungary ;  but  being  at  Venice,  we  did  learn  the  death  of 
the  great  Sultan  Soliman.  'Twas  there  I  did  curse  my 
luck  an  hundred  times  over,  for  that  I  had  not  anyhow 
returned  to  Naples,  where  I  should  have  passed  my  time 
to  advantage.  Indeed  it  may  well  be,  that  by  favour  of 
my  lady  the  Marquise  I  should  there  have  found  some 
good  fortune,  whether  by  marriage  or  otherwise.  For 
she  did  certainly  do  me  the  honour  to  like  me  well. 

I  suppose  my  evil  destiny  willed  it  not  so,  but  was  de- 
termined to  take  me  back  again  to  France  to  be  for  ever 
unfortunate  there.  In  this  hath  dame  Fortune  never 
showed  me  a  favourable  countenance,  except  only  so  far 
as  appearances  go  and  a  fair  repute  as  a  good  and  gal- 
lant man  of  worth  and  honour.  Yet  goods  and  rank  have 
I  never  gotten  like  sundry  of  my  comrades, — and  even 
some  of  our  lower  estate,  men  I  have  known  which  would 
have  deemed  themselves  happy  if  I  had  but  spoke  to  them 
in  a  courtyard,  or  King's  or  Queen's  apartment,  or  in 
hall,  though  only  aside  and  over  the  shoulder.  Yet  to- 
day I  do  see  these  same  fellows  advanced  and  grown  ex- 
ceeding big  with  the  rapidity  of  pumpkins, — though  in- 
deed I  do  make  but  light  of  them  and  hold  them  no  greater 
than  myself  and  would  not  defer  to  any  of  them  by  so 
much  as  the  length  of  my  nail. 

Well,  well!  I  may  herein  apply  to  myself  the  word 
which  our  Redeemer  Jesus  Christ  did  pronounce  out  of 

[337] 


LIVES     OF     FAIR     AND     GALLANT     LADIES 

his  own  mouth,  "a  prophet  hath  no  honour  in  his  own 
country."  Mayhap  had  I  served  foreign  Princes  as  well 
as  I  have  done  mine  own,  and  sought  adventure  among 
them  as  I  have  among  those  of  our  land,  I  should  now  be 
more  laden  with  wealth  and  dignities  than  I  actually  am 
with  years  and  vexations.  Patience !  if  'tis  my  Fate  hath 
spun  it  so,  I  do  curse  the  jade;  if  'tis  my  Princes  be  to 
blame,  I  do  give  them  to  all  the  devils,  an  if  they  be  not 
there  already! 

This  doth  end  my  account  of  this  most  honourable 
lady.  She  is  dead,  with  an  excellent  repute  as  having 
been  a  right  fair  noble  dame  and  having  left  behind  her  a 
good  and  generous  line,  as  the  Marquis  eldest  son,  Don 
Juan,  Don  Carlos,  Don  Caesar  d'Avalos,  all  which  myself 
have  seen  and  have  spoke  of  them  elsewhere.  The  daugh- 
ters no  less  have  followed  in  their  brothers'  steps.  And 
herewith  I  do  terminate  the  main  thread  of  my  principal 
Discourse. 


[338] 


NOTES  AND  APPENDICES 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

(This  list  is  simply  a  selection  from  the  many  editions  of 
the  works  of  Brantome  in  French  and  German.  There  are 
also  texts  in  Spanish  and  Italian.  A  complete  bibliography 
would  fill  many  pages  and  would  not  be  essential  to  the 
present  text.) 

EDITIONS 

— Leyde,  1666,  chez  Sambix  le  jeune,  2  vol.  in-12.  Le  titre 
portait.  "Vies  des  dames  galantes." 

— Leyde,  1666,  chez  Jean  de  la  Tourterelle,  2  vol.  in-12. 
Le  titre  portait.  "Memoires  de  messire  Pierre  de  Bourdeille, 
seigneur  de  Brantome,  contenans  les  vies  des  dames  galantes 
de  son  temps." 

— Leyde,  1722,  chez  Jean  de  la  Tourterelle,  2  vol.  in-12. 
Titre  rouge  et  noir.  Meme  titre  que  dans  1'edition  precedente 
et  memes  fautes. 

— Londres,  1739,  Wood  et  S.  Palmer,  2  vol.  in-12,  titre 
rouge  et  noir.  "Memoires  de  messire  Pierre  de  Bourdeille, 
seigneur  de  Brantome,  contenant  les  vies  des  dames  galantes 
de  son  temps."  Edition  copiee  sur  les  precedentes. 

— La  Haye,  1740,  15  vol.  in-12.  Cette  edition  est  de  Le 
Duchat,  Lancelot  et  Prosper  Marchand,  et  les  remarques 
critiques  ont  servi  aux  editions  posterieures. 

— Londres,  1779,  aux  depens  du  libraire,  15  vol.  in-8°. 
"CEuvres  du  seigneur  de  Brantome,  nouvelle  edition  conside- 
rablement  augmentee,  accompagnee  de  remarques  historiques 
et  critiques  et  distribute,  dans  un  meilleur  ordre."  Les  Dames 
galantes  occupent  les  tomes  III  et  IV. 

— Paris,  1822,  Foucault,  8  vol.  in-8°.  "(Euvres  completes 

[341] 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


du  seigneur  de  Brantome,  accompagnees  de  remarques  his- 
toriques  et  critiques.  Nouvelle  edition  collationnee  sur  les 
manuscrits  de  la  Bibliotheque  du  Roi."  (Monmerque).  Les 
Dames  galantes  occupant  le  VIIe  vol. 

— Paris,  1834,  Ledoux,  2  vol.  in-8°.  "Les  Dames  galantes, 
par  le  seigneur  de  Brantome,  nouvelle  edition  avec  une  preface 
de  M.  Ph.  Chasles."  Edition  qui  a  beaucop  et  mal  profite 
de  1'edition  precedente. 

— Paris,  1841-1869,  Gamier  freres,  1  vol.  in-18.  Edition 
populaire  plusieurs  fois  reimprimee  et  faite  d'apres  1'edition 
de  1740. 

— Paris,  1857,  A.  Delahays,  1  vol.  in-12.  "(Euvrei  de 
Brantome,  nouvelle  edition  revue  d'apres  les  meilleurs  textes, 
avec  une  preface  historique  et  critique  par  H.  Vigneau.  Vies 
des  Dames  galantes."  Edition  faite  d'apres  les  editions  an- 
tericures.  Les  notes  sont  bonnes. 

II  a  etc  fait  une  nouvelle  edition  de  ce  travail  en  1857, 
chez  Delahays,  en  in-18. 

— Paris,  1876,  Renouard,  libraire  de  la  Sbciete  de  1'histoire 
de  France.  "(Euvres  completes  de  Pierre  de  Bourdeille, 
seigneur  de  Brantome,  publiees  d'apres  les  manuscrits,  avec 
variantes  et  fragments  inedits,  pour  la  Societe  de  1'histoire  de 
France,  par  Ludovic  Lalanne.  Tome  neuvieme.  Des  Dames" 
(suite).  Un  gros  vol.  in-8  de  743  pages,  titre  non  compris. 

Cette  edition  est  la  premiere  qui  indique  les  sources  aux- 
quelles  Brantome  a  puise  ses  historiettes.  M.  Lalanne  n'a 
laisse  aucunp  assage  sans  une  explication  tojours  courte  et 
toujours  substantielle. 

— L'CEuvre  du  Seigneur  de  Brantome.  "Vie  des  Dames  ga- 
lantes." Introduction  and  notes  by  B.  de  Villeneuve.  Paris, 
1913. 

— Les  Dames  galantes.  Publiees  d'apres  les  manuscrits 
de  la  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  par  Henri  Bouchot.  2  vols. 
E.  Flammarion.  Paris.  (A  very  fine  edition.) 

— Brantome:  Das  Leben  der  Galanten  Damen.  (Diony- 

[342] 


^ 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


sos-Biicherei).     Introduction  by  George  Harsdorfer.     2  vols. 
Berlin.     (The  best  German  edition.) 

—  Brantome:  Lives  of  Fair  and  Gallant  Ladies.  Trans- 
lated from  the  original  by  A.  R.  Allinson.  2  vols.  Paris. 
Carrington.  1902. 


[343] 


APPENDIX— A 
BRANTOME :   By  ARTHUR  TILLEY 

Like  Montaigne,  Brantome  pretended  to  be  careless  of 
literary  fame,  but  in  reality  took  every  pains  to  secure  it; 
like  Montaigne  he  loved  digressions,  gaillardes  escapades, 
from  his  main  theme;  like  Montaigne  he  has  drawn  for  us, 
though  in  his  case  unconsciously,  a  portrait  of  himself;  like 
Montaigne  he  was  curious  of  information,  fond  of  travel  and 
books.  But  these  points  of  similarity  are  after  all  super- 
ficial; the  difference  is  fundamental.  While  Montaigne 
tested  the  world  and  society  by  the  light  of  his  shrewd  com- 
mon sense,  Brantome  accepted  them  without  question  or 
reflexion.  Montaigne  was  essentially  a  thinker,  Brantome 
was  merely  a  reporter;  Montaigne  was  a  moralist,  for  Bran- 
tome  the  word  morality  had  no  meaning.  Montaigne  criticised 
his  age,  Brantome  reflected  it.  That  indeed  is  Brantome's 
chief  value,  that  he  reflects  his  age  like  a  mirror,  but  it  must 
be  added  that  he  reflects  chiefly  its  more  trivial,  not  to  say  its 
more  scandalous  side.  He  is  the  Suetonius  of  the  French 
Renaissance. 

Pierre  de  Bourdeille,  "reverend  father  in  God,  abbe  de  Bran- 
tome,"  belonged  to  a  noble  and  ancient  family  of  Perigord. 
The  precise  date  of  his  birth  is  uncertain,  but  it  must  be 
placed  somewhere  between  1539  and  1542.  He  spent  his 
childhood  with  his  grandmother,  Louise  de  Vivonne,  wife  of 
the  seneschal  of  Poitou,  at  the  court  of  Margaret  of  Navarre, 
and  after  studying  first  at  Paris  and  then  at  Poitiers,  travelled 
for  more  than  a  year  in  Italy,  returning  to  France  at  the  be- 
ginning of  1560,  when  he  made  his  first  appearance  at  the 
court.  Though  he  already  held  other  benefices  besides  the 

[345] 


NOTES    AND    APPENDICES 


abbey  from  which  he  took  his  title,  he  was  not  in  orders.  The 
next  fourteen  years  were  spent  by  him  either  in  fighting  on 
the  Catholic  side  in  the  religious  wars,  or  in  attendance  at  the 
court,  or  in  travel.  In  1574  his  military  career  came  to  an 
end,  for  his  duties  as  gentleman  of  the  chamber,  to  which 
post  he  had  been  appointed  in  1568,  kept  him  at  court,  frivo- 
lous, idle,  and  discontented.  At  last  the  refusal  of  Henry 
III.  to  bestow  on  him  the  promised  post  of  governor  of  Peri- 
gord  filled  him  with  such  fury  that  he  determined  to  enter 
the  service  of  Spain.  But  a  fall  from  his  horse,  which  kept 
him  in  bed  for  four  years  (1583-1587),  saved  him  from  being 
a  renegade  to  his  country  and  turned  him  into  a  man  of  letters. 

For  it  was  during  this  forced  inactivity,  apparently  in 
1584,  that  he  began  his  literary  labours,  which  he  continued 
for  the  next  thirty  years,  most  of  which  he  spent  on  his 
estate.  He  died  in  1614,  leaving  a  will  of  portentous  length, 
in  which,  among  other  things,  he  charged  his  heirs  to  have 
his  works  printed  en  belle  et  grand  lettre  et  grand  volume. 
The  charge  was  neglected,  and  it  was  not  till  1665-1666  that 
an  incomplete  and  defective  edition  was  published  at  Leyden, 
in  the  Elzevir  form.  Previous  to  this,  however,  several  copies 
had  been  made  of  his  manuscripts,  and  Le  Laboureur  in  his 
edition  of  Castelnau's  Memoirs,  published  in  1659,  had  print- 
ed long  extracts. 

Brantome  was  a  disappointed  man  when  he  wrote  his 
memoirs.  He  had  been  an  assiduous  courtier  for  a  quarter 
of  a  century  and  had  gained  nothing  by  it,  while  he  had  seen 
men  whose  merits  he  believed  to  be  inferior  to  his  rise  to 
wealth  and  honour.  But  though  he  had  the  love  of  frivolity 
and  the  moral  indifference  of  a  true  courtier,  he  had  not  his 
pliability.  "He  was  violent,"  says  Le  Laboureur,  "difficult  to 
live  with  and  of  a  too  unforgiving  spirit."  Perhaps  the  best 
thing  that  can  be  said  in  his  favour  is  that  among  his  most 
intimate  friends  were  two  of  the  most  virtuous  characters  of 
their  time,  Teligny,  the  son-in-law  of  Coligny,  and  Teligny's 

[346] 


r/«ir»wr/»ir^ir/»ir»\ir^ir/»i?/^^ 


llvWPWW^l^l^tWyi^t^t^lJIt^ 


brother-in-law,  Fran9ois  de  la  Noue.  Among  his  other  friends 
were  Louis  de  Berenger,  seigneur  du  Guast,  who  was  assassi- 
nated by  order  of  Marguerite  de  Valois,  and  above  all  Filippo 
Strozzi,  the  son  of  Piero  Strozzi,  who  was  his  friend  for  over 
twenty  years,  and  who  exercised  over  him  considerable  influ- 
ence. 

The  names  by  which  Brantome's  writings  are  generally 
known  are  not  those  which  he  himself  gave  them.  Thus  the 
titles  Dames  illustres  and  Dames  galantes  are  an  invention  of 
the  Leyden  publisher  for  the  Premier  et  Second  livre  des 
Dames.  The  other  main  division  of  his  writings,  Hommes, 
consisted  in  Brantome's  manuscript  of  two  volumes,  the  first 
containing  the  Grands  capitaines,  French  and  Spanish,  and 
the  second  Les  couronnels,  Discours  sur  les  duels,  Rodomon- 
tades espagnoles,  and  a  separate  account  of  La  Noue.  His 
original  manuscript  was  completed  while  Margaret  was  still 
the  wife  of  Henry  IV.,  that  is  to  say  before  November,  1599, 
but  some  time  after  her  divorce  he  made  a  carefully  revised 
copy.  It  is  upon  this  copy  that  the  text  of  M.  Lalanne's  edi- 
tion is  based  for  the  first  five  volumes. 

Regarded  strictly  as  biographies  Brantome's  lives  have 
slender  merit,  for  the  majority  give  one  little  or  no  idea  of 
the  character  of  the  persons  treated.  He  is  at  least  success- 
ful with  those  who  had  in  them  elements  of  real  greatness, 
such  as  Coligny  and  Conde.  Even  the  long  life  of  Francois 
de  Guise,  though  it  contains  some  interesting  and  valuable 
information,  throws  little  light  on  Guise  himself.  But  he 
gives  us  good  superficial  portraits  of  Charles  IX.,  Catharine 
de  Medici,  and  the  Constable  de  Montmorency,  while  several 
of  the  minor  lives,  such  as  Brissac  and  his  brother  Cosse, 
Matignon,  and  Mary  of  Hungary,  are  not  only  amusing  but 
hit  off  the  characters  with  considerable  success.  One  of  the 
most  entertaining  is  the  unfinished  account  of  his  father.  On 
the  other  hand  the  account  of  Margaret  of  Valois,  though  it 
contains  some  interesting  details,  is  too  ecstatic  in  its  open- 

[347] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


mouthed  admiration  to  have  any  value  as  a  biography.  The 
conclusion  of  the  account  of  Monluc  may  be  quoted  not  only 
for  its  reference  to  Monluc's  conversational  powers,  but  as 
throwing  light  on  Brantome's  own  character. 

Much  of  the  interest  of  Brantome's  book  is  to  be  found  in 
his  numerous  digressions,  for  which  he  is  constantly  apolo- 
gizing. Thus  in  the  middle  of  the  account  of  Montmorency 
we  have  a  laudatory  sketch  of  Michel  de  1'Hospital,  in  that 
of  Tavannes  a  digression  on  the  order  of  St.  Michael,  in  that 
of  Bellegarde  an  account  of  his  own  treatment  by  Henry  III. 
The  digressions  are  frequently  made  occasions  for  amusing 
stories,  which,  like  Montaigne's,  are  distinguished  from  such 
as  Bouchet  and  Beroalde  de  Verville  collected,  in  that  they 
generally  illustrate  some  trait  of  human  character. 

Like  Montaigne  again,  Brantome  copies  freely  and  without 
acknowledgment  from  books.  Whole  pages  are  taken  from 
Le  loyal  serviteur,  stories  are  borrowed  from  Rabelais,  Des 
Periers,  and  the  Heptameron,  as  well  as  from  most  of  the 
writers  dealt  with  in  the  last  chapter.  But  Brantome,  unlike 
Montaigne,  tries  to  conceal  his  thefts  by  judicious  alterations, 
or  by  pretending  that  he  heard  the  story  himself,  or  even  that 
he  was  a  witness  of  the  event  related.  J'ai  ouy  conter  and 
J'ai  vu  are  frequently  in  his  mouth.  He  was  doubtless  chiefly 
influenced  in  these  endeavours  to  conceal  his  borrowings  by 
the  same  form  of  vanity  as  Montaigne,  the  desire  to  be 
regarded,  not  as  a  man  of  letters,  but  as  a  gentleman  who 
amused  himself  by  putting  down  his  reminiscences  on  paper. 
It  is  for  this  reason  that  he  tries  to  give  a  negligent  and  con- 
versational air  to  his  style.  The  result  is  that  he  is  often 
ungrammatical  and  sometimes  obscure.  Yet  his  style,  at  any 
rate  in  the  eyes  of  a  foreigner,  has  considerable  merit,  and 
chiefly  from  its  power  of  vivid  presentment.  For  Brantome, 
like  other  Gascons,  like  Montaigne  and  Monluc  and  Henry 
IV.,  saw  things  vividly  and  can  make  his  readers  see  them. 
He  has  a  store  of  expressive  words  and  phrases  such  as  un  peu 

[348] 


tfftfflffifa'lfrtftfti^^ 


ys^i^sx^s^^iiS&sisKS^ 


hommasse  (of  Mary  of  Hungary).  A  noticeable  feature  of 
his  style  is  his  love  of  Italian  and  Spanish  words,  reflecting 
in  this,  as  in  other  features,  the  prevailing  fashion  of  the 
Court. 

Brantome's  keen  enjoyment  of  the  world  pageantry  was 
seldom  disturbed  by  inconvenient  reflexion.  His  only  quarrel 
with  society  was  that  the  ruling  powers  were  blind  to  his  own 
merits.  He  thought  the  duel,  even  in  the  treacherous  and 
bloodthirsty  fashion  in  which  it  was  then  carried  on,  an 
excellent  institution,  and  at  the  end  of  his  account  of  Coligny 
he  inserts  an  elaborate  disquisition  on  the  material  benefits 
which  the  religious  wars  had  conferred  on  France.  All  classes 
had  profited,  nobles,  clergy,  magistrates,  merchants,  artisans. 

And  all  this  is  said  in  sober  earnest,  without  a  suspicion  of 
irony.  One  might  at  any  rate  give  Brantome  credit  for  orig- 
inality had  he  not  told  us  at  the  outset  that  this  was  the  sub- 
stance of  a  conversation  which  he  overheard  at  Court  between 
two  great  persons,  one  a  soldier  and  the  other  a  statesman, 
and  both  excellent  Catholics.  Brantome  was  the  echo  as  well 
as  the  mirror  of  the  Court. 

Brantome's  glowing  panegyric  on  Margaret  of  Valois  in- 
duced that  virtuous  princess  to  write  her  memoirs,  partly  in 
order  to  supplement  his  account  of  her,  partly  to  correct  a 
few  errors  into  which  he  had  fallen.  It  is  to  Brantome  accord- 
inly  that  her  memoirs  are  addressed.  They  were  written  about 
the  year  1597  in  the  chateau  of  Usson  in  Auvergne,  where  she 
had  resided,  nominally  as  a  prisoner,  since  1687. 

[From  The  Literature  of  the  French  Renaissance,  Vol.  II.     1904.] 


[349] 


APPENDIX— B 
BRANTOME:    By  GEORGE   SAINTSBURY 

The  complement  and  counterpart  of  this  moralising1  on 
human  business  and  pleasure  is  necessarily  to  be  found  in 
chronicles  of  that  business  and  that  pleasure  as  actually  pur- 
sued. In  these  the  sixteenth  century  is  extraordinarily  rich. 
Correspondence  had  hardly  yet  attained  the  importance  in 
French  literature  which  it  afterwards  acquired,  but  professed 
history  and,  still  more,  personal  memoirs  were  largely  written. 
The  name  of  Brantome  has  been  chosen  as  the  central  and 
representative  name  of  this  section  of  writers,  because  he  is 
on  the  whole  the  most  original  and  certainly  the  most  famous 
of  them.  His  work,  moreover,  has  more  than  one  point  of 
resemblance  to  that  of  the  great  contemporary  author  (Mon- 
taigne) with  whom  he  is  linked  at  the  head  of  this  chapter. 
Brantome  neither  wrote  actual  history  nor  directly  personal 
memoirs,  but  desultory  biographical  essays,  forming  a  curious 
and  perhaps  designed  pendant  to  the  desultory  moral  essays 
of  his  neighbour  Montaigne.  Around  him  rank  many  writers, 
some  historians  pure  and  simple,  some  memoir-writers  pure 
and  simple,  of  whom  not  a  few  approach  him  in  literary 
genius,  and  surpass  him  in  correctness  and  finish  of  style, 
while  almost  all  exceed  him  in  whatever  advantage  may  be 
derived  from  uniformity  of  plan,  and  from  regard  to  the  de- 
cencies of  literature. 

Pierre  de  Bourdeille  (s)  (who  derived  the  name  by  which 
he  is,  and  indeed  was  during  his  lifetime,  generally  known 
from  an  abbacy  given  to  him  by  Henri  II.  when  he  was  still 
a  boy)  was  born  about  1540,  in  the  province  of  Perigord,  but 

i  Referring  to  Montaigne's  Essays. 

[351] 


;r<Mr/i\i^ir/wirflMrr*ir*>ir/^ 


r/«irAW«Y«^r/8vir/»irA>ir/8vir^^^^ 


the  exact  date  and  place  of  his  birth  have  not  been  ascertained. 
He  was  the  third  son  of  Francois,  Comte  de  Bourdeilles,  and 
his  mother,  Anne  de  Vivonne  de  la  Chataigneraie,  was  the 
sister  of  the  famous  duelist  whose  encounter  with  Jarnac  his 
nephew  has  described  in  a  well-known  passage.  In  the  court 
of  Marguerite  d'Angouleme,  the  literary  nursery  of  so  great 
a  part  of  the  talent  of  France  at  this  time,  he  passed  his  early 
youth,  went  to  school  at  Paris  and  at  Poitiers,  and  was  made 
Abbe  de  Brantome  at  the  age  of  sixteen.  He  was  thus  suf- 
ficiently provided  for,  and  he  never  took  any  orders,  but  was 
a  courtier  and  a  soldier  throughout  the  whole  of  his  active 
life.  Indeed  almost  the  first  use  he  made  of  his  benefice  was 
to  equip  himself  and  a  respectable  suite  for  a  journey  into 
Italy,  where  he  served  under  the  Marechal  de  Brissac.  He 
accompanied  Mary  Stuart  to  Scotland,  served  in  the  Spanish 
army  in  Africa,  volunteered  for  the  relief  of  Malta  from  the 
Turks,  and  again  for  the  expedition  destined  to  assist  Hun- 
gary against  Soliman,  and  in  other  ways  led  the  life  of  a 
knight-errant.  The  religious  wars  in  his  own  country  gave 
him  plenty  of  employment;  but  in  the  reigns  of  Charles  IX. 
and  Henri  III.  he  was  more  particularly  attached  to  the  suite 
of  the  queen  dowager  and  her  daughter  Marguerite.  He  was, 
however,  somewhat  disappointed  in  his  hopes  of  recompense; 
and  after  hesitating  for  a  time  between  the  Royalists,  the 
Leaguers,  and  the  Spaniards,  he  left  the  court,  retired  into 
private  life,  and  began  to  write  memoirs,  partly  in  conse- 
quence of  a  severe  accident.  He  seems  to  have  begun  to 
write  about  1594,  and  he  lived  for  twenty  years  longer,  dying 
on  the  15th  of  July,  1614. 

The  form  of  Brantome's  works  is,  as  has  been  said,  peculiar. 
They  are  usually  divided  into  two  parts,  dealing  respectively 
with  men  and  women.  The  first  part  in  its  turn  consists  of 
many  subdivisions,  the  chief  of  which  is  made  up  of  the  Vies 
des  Grand  Capitaines  Etrangers  et  Franpais,  while  others 
consist  of  separate  disquisitions  or  essays,  Des  Rodomontades 

[352] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


Espagnoles,  "On  some  Duels  and  Challenges  in  France"  and 
elsewhere,  "On  certain  Retreats,  and  how  they  are  sometimes 
better  than  Battles,"  etc.  Of  the  part  which  is  devoted  to 
women  the  chief  portion  is  the  celebrated  Dames  Galantes, 
which  is  preceded  by  a  series  of  Vies  des  Dames  Illustres, 
matching  the  Grands  Capitaines.  The  Dames  Galantes  is 
subdivided  into  eight  discourses,  with  titles  which  smack  of 
Montaigne.  These  discourses  are,  however,  in  reality  little 
but  a  congerie  of  anecdotes,  often  scandalous  enough.  Be- 
sides these,  his  principal  works,  Brantome  left  divers  Opus- 
cula,  some  of  which  are  definitely  literary,  dealing  chiefly 
with  Lucan.  None  of  his  works  were  published  in  his  life- 
time, nor  did  any  appear  in  print  until  1659.  Meanwhile 
manuscript  copies  had,  as  usual,  been  multiplied,  with  the 
result,  also  usual,  that  the  text  was  much  falsified  and  muti- 
lated. 

The  great  merit  of  Brantome  lies  in  the  extraordinary  vivid- 
ness of  his  powers  of  literary  presentment.  His  style  is 
careless,  though  it  is  probable  that  the  carelessness  is  not 
unstudied.  But  his  irregular,  brightly  coloured,  and  easily 
flowing  manner  represents,  as  hardly  any  age  has  ever  been 
represented,  the  characteristics  of  the  great  society  of  his 
time.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  the  morals  of  that  time  were 
utterly  corrupt,  but  Brantome  accepts  them  with  a  placid 
complacency  which  is  almost  innocent.  No  writer,  perhaps, 
has  ever  put  things  more  disgraceful  on  paper;  but  no  writer 
has  ever  written  of  such  things  in  such  a  perfectly  natural 
manner.  Brantome  was  in  his  way  a  hero-worshipper,  though 
his  heroes  and  heroines  were  sometimes  oddly  coupled.  Bay- 
ard and  Marguerite  de  Valois  represent  his  ideals,  and  a 
good  knight  or  a  beautiful  lady  de  par  le  monde  can  do  no 
wrong.  This  unquestioning  acceptance  of,  and  belief  in,  the 
moral  standards  of  his  own  society  give  a  genuineness  and  a 
freshness  to  his  work  which  are  very  rare  in  literature.  Few 
writers,  again,  have  had  the  knack  of  hitting  off  character, 

[353] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


superficially  it  is  true,  yet  with  sufficient  distinction,  which 
Brantome  has.  There  is  something  individual  about  all  the 
innumerable  characters  who  move  across  his  stage,  and  some- 
thing thoroughly  human  about  all,  even  the  anonymous  men 
and  women,  who  appear  for  a  moment  as  the  actors  in  some 
too  frequently  discreditable  scene.  With  all  this  there  is  a 
considerable  vein  of  moralising  in  Brantome  which  serves  to 
throw  up  the  relief  of  his  actual  narratives.  He  has  some- 
times been  compared  to  Pepys,  but,  except  in  point  of  garrulity 
and  of  readiness  to  set  down  on  paper  anything  that  came  into 
their  heads,  there  is  little  likeness  between  the  two.  Bran- 
tome  was  emphatically  an  ecrivain  (unscholarly  and  Italian- 
ised as  his  phrase  sometimes  appears,  if  judged  by  the  stand- 
ards of  a  severer  age),  and  some  of  the  best  passages  from 
his  works  are  among  the  most  striking  examples  of  French 
prose. 


[From  A  Short  History  of  French  Literature.    6th  Ed.     Oxford. 
1901.] 


[354] 


NOTES  TO  VOLUME  I 

HISTORICAL  NOTE 

P.  V:  The  Due  d'Alencon  was  later  called  the  Due  d'Anjou. 
He  died  at  Ch&teau-Thierry,  on  Sunday,  June  10,  1584,  from  dysen- 
tery, which  had  almost  reduced  him  to  a  shadow.  Nevers,  in  his 
Memoir es  (Vol.  I,  p.  91),  maintains  that  he  was  poisoned  by  a  maid 
of  one  of  his  mistresses.  According  to  L'Estoile's  account,  the  Duke 
was  given  a  magnificent  funeral  in  Paris.  He  was  by  no  means 
handsome;  his  pimpled  and  deformed  nose  earned  for  him  an  epi- 
gram during  his  expedition  in  Flanders : 

Flamands,  ne  soyez  estonnez 
Si  a  Francois  voyez  deux  nez: 
Car  par  droit,  raison  et  usage, 
Faut  deux  nez  a  double  visage. 

P.  VIII:  Pierre  de  Bourdeille,  Seigneur  de  PAbbaye  de  Brantdme. 
Was  born  in  P6rigord,  1527;  died  1614.  Of  an  old  and  distinguished 
family.  Served  his  apprenticeship  to  war  under  the  famous  Captain 
Francois  de  Guise.  Later  Gentleman  of  the  Chamber  to  two  French 
Kings  in  succession,  Charles  IX.  and  Henri  III.,  being  high  in 
favour  with  the  latter;  Chamberlain  to  the  Due  d'Alengon.  As 
soldier  or  traveller  visited  most  parts  of  Europe;  intimate  with 
many  of  the  most  famous  men  of  his  day,  including  the  poet 
Ronsard.  Some  time  after  the  death  of  Charles  IX.  he  retired 
(disappointed  apparently  by  a  diminution  of  Court  favour,  and 
suffering  from  the  results  of  a  serious  accident  due  to  a  fall  from 
his  horse)  to  his  estates  in  Guyenne,  where  he  employed  his  leisure 
in  the  composition  of  a  number  of  voluminous  works  based  on 
reminiscences  of  the  active  period  of  his  life. 

These  are: 

Vies  des  Homines  illustres  et  grands  Capitaines  frangais, 
Vies  des  Grands  Capitaines  Strangers, 
Viet  des  Dames  illustres, 
Vies  des  Dames  galantes, 
Anecdotes  touchant  des  Duels, 
Rodomontades  et  Jurements  espagnols, 
and  sundry  fragments. 

[355] 


^ 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


P.  XXII: 

Souvent    femme    varie, 
Bien  fol  qui  s'y  fie! 

(Woman  is  changing  ever;  fool  the  man  who  trusts  her!) 

P.  3:  The  word  which  Moliere  popularized  does  not  date  from 
that  time;  it  was  used  much  earlier,  and  in  the  thirteenth  century 
we  see  a  man  pay  a  fine  of  twenty  ounces  of  gold  for  calling  an 
unfortunate  husband  coucou  (cuckold).  (Uaatica  regni  Majorici, 
Anno  1248.)  About  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth  century,  in  a  letter 
of  remission  to  a  guilty  fellow,  we  find  this  curious  remark:  "Cogul, 
which  is  the  same  (in  the  vernacular)  as  coulz  or  couppault,  is  one 
of  the  vilest  insults  to  be  thrust  at  a  married  man."  At  times  the 
word  coux  was  used: 

Suis-je  mis  en  la  confrairie 

Saint  Arnoul  le  seignenur  des  Coux. 

But  it  was  just  about  the  fifteenth  century  that  the  confusion  ap- 
peared between  this  word  and  the  bird  of  April  (cuckoo) ;  the  word 
coucou  (cuckoo),  which  had  been  explained  by  a  fable,  merely  imi- 
tated the  cry,  whereas  the  word  cocu  (cuckold)  had  been  derived  from 
the  early  Low  Latin  cugus.  "Couquou,  thus  named  after  its  manner 
of  singing  and  because  it  is  famed  for  laying  its  eggs  in  the  nests  of 
other  birds ;  so,  inconsistently,  he  is  called  a  cocu  (cuckold)  in  whose 
nest  another  man  comes."  (Bouchet,  Series.)  There  is  also  a  play 
by  Passerat  on  the  metamorphosis  of  a  cuckoo  which  is  worth  men- 
tioning. (Bib.  Nat.,  manuscrit  f ratals,  22565,  f°  24  v°.) 

P.  4:  In  the  present  work  the  Author  constantly  uses  the  words 
belle  et  honneste  (fair  and  honourable)  to  describe  such  and  such  a 
lady,  of  whom  at  the  same  time  he  speaks  as  being  an  unmitigated 
whore.  But  when  he  adds,  as  he  does  sometimes,  vertueuse 
(virtuous)  to  belle  et  honneste,  he  implies  by  this  that  the  lady  was 
chaste  and  modest,  and  raised  no  talk  about  herself. 

P.  7:  The  prothonotary  Baraud  was  one  of  those  churchmen  of 
whom  Brantome  says  elsewhere:  "It  was  customary  at  the  time  that 
prothonotaries,  even  those  of  good  families,  should  scarcely  be 
learned,  but  give  themselves  up  to  pleasure,"  etc. 

P.  10:  Cosimo  de  Medici,  who  had  his  wife  Eleonora  de  Toledo 
poisoned.  The  daughter  of  whom  Brantome  speaks  was  Isabella, 

[356] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


whom  he  married  to  Paolo  Orsini,  the  Duke  of  Bracciano.  But 
Cosimo  had  too  marked  an  affection  for  this  daughter;  although  she 
was  married,  he  insisted  that  she  live  in  Florence  and  remain  with 
him.  Vasari,  who  painted  for  the  Medici  one  of  the  arches  of  the 
Palazzo  Vecchio,  one  day  surprised  the  father  and  the  daughter,  and 
recounts  the  strange  adventure  which  he  witnessed.  After  the  death 
of  Cosimo,  Paolo  Orsini  called  Isabella  to  his  apartment,  and  there, 
according  to  Litta,  "with  a  rope  around  her  neck  coldly  strangled  her 
on  the  night  of  July  16,  1576,  in  the  act  of  consummating  the  mar- 
riage." (Medici,  t,  IV,  tavola  xiv.)  That  unhappy  woman  was  one 
of  the  most  marvellous  of  her  time:  beautiful,  cultured,  musical,  she 
had  all  the  brilliant  advantages  of  the  mind  and  of  the  body.  Mean- 
while, she  had  had  as  a  lover  Troilo  Orsini,  who  was  attached  to  her 
husband  as  a  bodyguard,  and  who  was  assassinated  in  France,  where 
he  had  retired. 

P.  10:  Louis  de  Clermont  de  Bussy  d'Amboise  was  born  towards 
the  middle  of  the  XVIth  Century,  and  took  an  active  part  in  the 
Massacre  of  Saint  Bartholomew.  On  that  occasion,  profiting  by  the 
confusion,  he  murdered  his  kinsman  Antoine  de  Clermont,  with 
whom  he  was  at  law  for  the  possession  of  the  Marquisat  de  Renel. 
Having  obtained  from  his  patron  the  Due  d'Anjou  the  governorship 
of  the  Castle  of  Angers,  he  made  himself  the  terror  of  the  country- 
side. Letters  of  his  addressed  to  the  wife  of  the  Comte  de  Montso- 
reau,  whom  he  was  endeavouring  to  seduce,  having  fallen  into 
Charles  IX.'s  hands,  were  by  him  shown  to  the  husband.  The  latter 
forced  his  wife  to  write  a  reply  to  her  lover  appointing  a  rendez- 
vous. On  his  appearing  there,  Montsoreau  and  a  band  of  armed 
men  fell  upon  and  despatched  him  (1579).  The  comment  of  the 
historian  de  Thou  is  in  these  words:  "The  entire  Province  was 
overjoyed  at  Bussy's  death,  while  the  Duke  of  Anjou  himself  was 
not  sorry  to  be  rid  of  him."  [Transl.] 

P.  11:  Rene  de  Villequier,  Baron  de  Clairvaux,  murdered  his  first 
wife,  Francoise  de  la  Marck,  in  cold  blood,  in  1677  at  the  Castle  of 
Poitiers,  where  the  Court  was  residing.  He  killed  at  the  same  time 
a  young  girl  who  was  holding  a  mirror  before  her  mistress  at  the 
moment.  According  to  some  authorities  he  acted  on  the  suggestion 
of  the  king,  Henri  III.  At  any  rate  he  got  off  with  absolute 
impunity,  and  within  a  very  short  time  after  was  decorated  by  his 
Sovereign  with  the  Order  of  the  St.  Esprit.  [Transl.] 

P.  12:    Sampietro,  the  famous  soldier  of  fortune,  and  commander 

[357] 


»7^^i?rrthTfflffWW^ii^ 

NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 

a>yj|iym^M^MM^ 

of  the  Italian  troops  under  the  French  Kings  Francis  I.  and  Henri 
II.,  was  born  near  Ajaccio  in  Corsica  in  1501.  He  was  of  humble 
birth,  but  his  many  brilliant  feats  of  war  made  him  celebrated 
throughout  Europe.  He  actually  strangled  his  wife, — Vanina,  a 
lady  of  good  family,  but  not  in  consequence  of  such  misconduct  on 
her  part  as  Brantome  represents.  The  real  circumstances  were  as 
follows.  Sampietro  having  attempted  to  raise  his  Corsican  com- 
patriots in  revolt  against  the  Genoese,  he  was  imprisoned  and  all 
but  put  to  death  by  the  latter.  This  roused  in  him  so  implacable 
a  hatred  of  the  Genoese  State,  that  on  learning  that  his  wife  during 
his  absence  at  Constantinople  had  condescended  to  implore  his 
pardon  from  the  Genoese,  he  deliberately  put  her  to  death  in  the 
way  described.  He  was  himself  eventually  murdered,  being  treach- 
erously stabbed  in  the  back  by  his  Lieutenant  and  friend  Vitelli 
at  the  instigation  of  his  Genoese  enemies.  [Transl.] 

P.  12:  This  is  another  allusion  to  Paolo  Orsini,  Duke  of  Bracciano, 
who  could  not  overtake  Troilo  Orsini,  and  killed  Isabella  that  he 
might  marry  Vittoria  Accoramboni,  whose  husband  he  had  assassi- 
nated. (Litta,  Orsini,  t,  VII,  tav.  XXIX.) 

P.  15:  The  Avalos  family  originally  came  from  Spain,  and  gave 
Italy  the  Marquis  de  Pescaire,  one  of  the  greatest  captains  of  the 
sixteenth  century.  It  is  of  him  that  Brantome  speaks  as  the  vice- 
roy. Maria  d'Avalos  was  married  to  Carlos  Gesualdo,  prince  of 
Venousse,  and  was  the  niece  of  this  Marquis  de  Pescaire  and  of  Del 
Guasto,  whom  Brantdme  describes  as  "dameret"  (foppish)  to  such 
a  degree  that  he  perfumed  the  saddles  of  his  horses.  He  was  the  one 
who  lost  the  battle  of  Consoles  in  1544. 

P.  16:    Iliad,  Bk.  Ill,  — 

P.  16:  Paul  de  Caussade  de  Saint-M6grin,  favorite  of  the  king, 
was  killed  on  leaving  the  Louvre  by  a  band  of  assassins  led  by 
Mayenne.  He  was  the  lover  of  Catherine  de  Cleves,  Duchess  de 
Guise.  Henri  IV.,  then  king  of  Navarre,  who  had  good  reasons  not 
to  like  favorites,  says  apropos  of  this:  "I  am  thankful  to  the  Due 
de  Guise  for  refusing  to  tolerate  that  a  bed  favorite  like  Saint-Megrin 
should  make  him  a  cuckold.  This  treatment  ought  to  be  meted  out 
to  all  the  little  court  gallants  who  try  to  approach  the  princesses  with 
the  aim  of  making  love  to  them." 

P.  17:  Francoise  de  Saillon,  married  to  Jacques  de  Rohan.  She 
was  saved  by  a  miracle,  says  Jean  Bourdigne's  chronicle,  in  1526. 

[358] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


'mLV£8^SS4^&^A^-£!$}S^ 


P.  17:  Brantdme  refers  to  Francoise  de  Foix,  Chateaubriant's  lady, 
regarding  whom  an  old  pamphlet  of  1606  says  as  follows:  "She  could 
do  what  she  desired,  and  she  desired  many  things  that  she  ought  not 
to  at  all.  During  her  lifetime,  her  husband  was  ever  afflicted  and 
tormented."  (Factum  pour  M.  le  connestable  contre  Madame  de 
Guise,  1606.)  That  is  also  the  opinion  of  Gaillard  in  his  Huttoire  d« 
Franqoise  /er,  t.  VII,  p.  179,  in  the  1769  edition,  who  sees  in  this 
passage  an  allusion  to  Mme.  de  Chateaubriant. 

P.  17:  Jean  de  Bourdigne,  author  of  Hittoire  agrtgative  det 
Annales  et  Chroniques  d'Anjou  et  du  Maine  (Angers,  1529,  fol.),  was 
born  at  Angers.  He  was  a  priest  and  Canon  of  the  Cathedral  of  his 
native  town.  The  book  is  very  rare;  as  a  history  it  is  almost 
worthless,  being  full  of  the  wildest  fables. 

P.  17:     Francis  I.  king  of  France,  1515-1547. 

P.  21:  Philip  II.  had  his  wife  Isabelle  de  Valois  poisoned;  he 
suspected  her  of  adultery  with  Don  Carlos,  his  son  of  a  former 
marriage. 

P.  22:  Louis  X.,  surnamed  le  Hutin,  had  caused  his  wife  Mar- 
guerite de  Bourgogne  to  be  strangled  at  the  Chateau-Gaillard.  She 
had  been  imprisoned  there  in  1314.  As  to  Gaston  II.,  of  Foix,  out- 
raged by  the  life  of  debauch  Jeanne  d'Artois  (his  mother)  led,  he 
obtained  from  Philippe  de  Valois  an  order  of  internment  in  1331. 

P.  22:  Anne  Boleyn,  who  was  the  cause  of  the  Anglican  schism. 
The  king  had  had  her  beheaded  because  of  her  infidelity  and  married 
Jane  Seymour.  As  to  the  charge  of  which  Brantdme  speaks,  Henry 
VIII.  was  so  keen  on  that  matter  that  he  had  caused  Catherine  How- 
ard to  be  beheaded  because  he  had  not  been  quite  convinced  of  her 
virginity. 

P.  23:  Baldwyn  II.,  cousin  and  successor  of  the  first  Baldwyn, 
king  of  Jerusalem,  brother  of  Godfrey  de  Bouillon,  reigned  from 
1119  to  1131.  Brantome  is  mistaken  here.  Baldwyn  II.  had  married 
Morphie,  daughter  of  Prince  de  Melitine;  but  he  had  not  been  for- 
merly married.  Does  he  wish  to  speak  of  Baudoin  Ire,  who  repudi- 
ated the  daughter  of  the  Prince  d'Armenie  and  then  Adele  de  Mon- 
ferrat?  (Cf.  Guillaume  de  Tyr,  liv.  II,  c.  xv.) 

P.  23:     Read  Melitene;  this  is  how  the  Ancients  named  this  town, 

[359] 


?!?ffflT^t!^^ 

NOTES    AND    APPENDICES 

aa^iiyflgagiiytia^ifeaK^^ 

the  modern  name  of  which  is  Meletin,  in  Latin  Malatia;   in  Armenia, 
on  the  Euphrates. 

P.  23:    History  of  the  Holy  Land;  by  William  of  Tyre. 

P.  23:  Louis  VII.  succeeded  his  father,  Louis  le  Gros,  on  the 
throne  of  France  1137,  and  died  1180.  His  wife,  whom  he  divorced 
soon  after  his  return  from  the  Holy  Land,  whither  she  had  accom- 
panied him,  was  Eleanore  of  Guienne.  This  divorce  was  very  painful 
to  Louis  VII.,  surnamed  le  Jeune,  because  he  had  to  give  up  the 
duchy  of  Aquitaine  and  cast  off  the  beautiful  equestrian  seal  which 
he  had  had  engraved  for  himself  in  his  rank  as  duke. 

P.  24:  Suetonius,  Caesar,  Chap.  VI.  Brant6me  is  thinking  of 
Clodius;  but  Cicero  never  made  the  speech  in  question. 

P.  24:  BrantSme  (Lalanne  edition,  t.  VIII,  p.  198)  repeats  this 
anecdote  without  giving  further  details. 

P.  25:     Fulvia.     (Sallust,  Chap.  XXIII.) 

P.  25:  Octavius  (Augustus),  first  Roman  Emperor,  was  the  son  of 
C.  Octavius,  by  Atia,  a  daughter  of  Julia,  the  sister  of  Julius 
Csesar.  He  was  therefore  the  grand-nephew  of  the  latter,  the 
founder  of  the  Empire  and  virtual,  though  not  nominal,  first 
Emperor.  He  married  Livia  after  his  divorce  of  Scribonia. 

P.  26:  Caligula,  the  third  Roman  Emperor,  A.  D.  37-41.  His  name 
was  Caius  Caesar,  Caligula  being  properly  only  a  friendly  nickname, 
"Little  Boots,"  bestowed  on  him  as  a  boy  by  the  soldiers  in  his 
father,  Germanicus'  camp  in  Germany,  where  he  was  brought  up. 
He  was  inordinately  cruel  and  licentious  and  madly  extravagant. 
Eventually  murdered. 

P.  26:  Brantome  does  not  appear  to  know  very  well  the  persons 
he  is  speaking  of  here:  I  lost  ill  a  is  Orestilla;  Tullia  is  Lollia;  Her- 
culalina  is  Urgulanilla. 

P.  27:  Claudius,  the  fourth  Roman  Emperor,  A.D.  41-54.  The 
notorious  Messalina  was  his  third  wife.  For  a  lurid  picture  of  her 
immoralities  see  Juvenal's  famous  Sixth  Satire. 

P.  28:    Giovanni  Boccaccio,  the  author  of  the  Decameron,  was  born 

[360] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


at  Paris  in  1313,  being  the  (illegitimate)  son  of  a  wealthy  merchant 
of  Florence.  He  died  1375  at  Certaldo,  a  village  near  Florence,  the 
original  seat  of  the  family. 

P.  28:    Does  the  following  chanson  refer  to  the  same  woman? 

On  void  Simonne 
Proumener  aux  bordeaux 
Matin,  soir,  nonne, 
Avec  ses  macquereaux. 

(Bib.  Nat.,  ms.  frangais  22565,  f°  41  v°.) 

P.  28:  This  is  indeed  one  of  the  most  curious  passages  of  the 
book,  and  I  am  glad  to  remove  one  of  Lalanne's  doubts.  BrantSme 
is  really  talking  of  a  statue,  an  antique  piece  which  was  found  July  21, 
1594,  in  a  field  near  the  Saint-Martin  priory.  It  had  been  admirably 
conserved.  Unfortunately,  Louis  XIV.  having  claimed  it  later,  it 
was  placed  on  a  barge  which  sank  in  the  Garonne,  and  was  never  re- 
covered. (O'Reilly,  History  of  Bordeaux,  1863,  Vol.  II.)  The  statue 
is  described  as  having  had  one  breast  uncovered  and  curled  hair,  a 
description  that  agrees  only  partly  with  Visconti's  type  (Icono- 
graphie  romaine,  t.  II.,  planche  28),  in  which  Messalina  is  not  decol- 
lete and  carries  her  son.  Was  the  Bordeaux  statue  indeed  a  Messa- 
lina? 

P.  31:  Brantome  is  mistaken;  Nero  caused  Octavia  to  be  killed. 
(See  Suetonius,  Nero,  Chap.  XXXV.) 

P.  31 :    Nero,  fifth  Roman  Emperor,  A.  D.  54-63. 

P.  31 :  Domitian  succeeded  his  father  Titus  on  the  Imperial  throne ; 
reigned  from  A.  D.  81  to  96. 

P.  31:  Pertinax,  a  man  of  peasant  birth,  but  who  had  carved  out 
for  himself  a  distinguished  career  as  soldier  and  administrator,  was 
elected  Emperor  by  the  Praetorian  Guards  on  the  murder  of  Corn- 
modus,  A.  D.  193.  Himself  murdered  after  a  two  months'  reign. 

P.  32:  Septimius  Severus,  Emperor  from  A.D.  193  to  211.  He  was 
a  great  general  and  conducted  successful  campaigns  in  Britain, 
where  he  died, — at  York. 

P.  33:     Philippe  Auguste,  King  of  France  1180-1223.     Philip  Au- 

[361] 


iHBfflaMifta^^  nlr<  H|M'H|I<  nhoibag 
NOTES  AND  APPENDICES 

irem^lLVJM'WMMMIMI^^ 

gustus  repudiated  Ingeburga  after  twenty-eight  days  of  marriage, 
and  married  Agnes  de  Me>anie.  The  censure  of  the  church  induced 
the  king  to  discard  the  second  marriage  and  return  to  Ingeburga 
(1201).  The  latter  was  reputed  to  have  a  secret  vice  which  greatly 
angered  the  king. 

P.  34:  Marguerite,  daughter  of  the  Archduke  Maximilian,  whom 
Charles  VIII.  rejected  in  order  to  marry  Anne  of  Brittany  (1491). 
Louis  XII.  turned  away  Jeanne  in  order  to  marry  the  widow  of 
Charles  VIII. 

P.  34:    Charles  VIII.,  1483-1498,  of  the  House  of  Valois. 

P.  34:  Louis  XII.,  successor  of  the  last  named,  reigned  1498-1515, 
the  immediate  predecessor  of  Francis  I. 

P.  35:  Alfonso  V.,  king  of  Aragon,  who  left  maxims  which  were 
collected  by  Antonio  Beccadelli,  surnamed  Panormita. 

P.  35:  Twenty-second  tale.  M.  de  Bernage  was  equerry  of  King 
Charles  VIII.  and  the  lord  of  Civray,  near  Chenonceaux. 

P.  36:  It  is  not  Semiramis,  but  Thomyris,  who,  according  to  Jus- 
tin (Bk.  I.)  and  Herodotus  (Bk.  II.),  thrust  the  head  of  Cyrus  into 
a  vat  of  blood.  Xenophon  says,  on  the  contrary,  that  Cyrus  died 
a  natural  death. 

P.  40:  Albert  de  Gondy,  Duke  de  Ret/,  was  reputed  as  a  prac- 
titioner of  Aretino's  principles.  His  wife,  Claudine  Catherine  de  Cler- 
mont,  deserved,  perhaps  wrongfully,  to  occupy  a  place  in  the  pamphlet 
entitled:  "Bibliotheque  de  Mme.  de  Montpensier." 

P.  41:  Elephantis  is  referred  to  by  Martial  and  Suetonius  as  the 
writer  of  amatory  works — "molles  Elephantidos  libelli,"  but  nothing 
is  known  of  her  otherwise.  She  was  probably  a  Greek,  not  a  Roman. 

P.  41:  Heliogabalus,  or  Elagabalus,  Emperor  from  A.  D.  218  to 
222.  Born  at  Emesa,  and  originally  high-priest  of  Elagabalus  the 
Syrian  Sun-god.  After  a  very  short  reign  marked  by  every  sort  of 
extravagant  folly,  he  was  succeeded  by  Alexander  Severus. 

[362] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


P.  41:  The  Cardinal  de  Lorraine,  Cardinal  du  Perron,  and  others, 
had  been  already  represented  in  the  same  way  along  with  Catherine  de 
Medici,  Mary  Stuart  and  the  Duchesse  de  Guise,  in  two  paintings 
mentioned  in  the  Legende  du  Cardinal  de  Lorraine,  fol.  24,  and  in 
the  Reveille-Matin  des  Franqais,  pp.  11  and  123. 

P.  42:  I  agree  with  Lalanne  that  this  prince  was  no  other  than 
the  Duke  d'Alencon.  As  to  the  fable  of  the  coupling  of  the  lions,  it 
came  from  an  error  of  Aristotle,  which  was  repeated  by  most  natural- 
ists until  the  eighteenth  century. 

P.  45:  Ronsard  the  poet  was  born  1524,  being  the  son  of  Louis  dc 
Ronsard,  sieur  de  la  Poissonniere,  an  officer  in  the  household  of 
King  Francis  I.,  and  died  1586.  He  enjoyed  an  immense  repu- 
tation in  his  lifetime,  and  was  the  favourite  poet  of  Mary  Queen  of 
Scots.  Her  lover,  the  unfortunate  Chastelard,  read  his  Hymne  d«  la 
mort  on  the  scaffold,  and  refused  any  other  book  or  confessor  to 
prepare  him  for  death.  Originator  and  leading  member  of  the 
famous  Pleiade  of  Poets. 

P.  46:  He  was  a  Florentine,  Luigi  di  Ghiaceti,  who  had  grown 
rich  by  negotiating  the  taxes  with  the  king.  He  married  the  beauti- 
ful Mile.  d'Atri,  and  to  please  her  he  had  bought  for  400,000  francs 
the  estate  of  Chateauvilain.  Mme.  de  Chateauvilain  was  a  model  of 
virtue,  if  Brantome  is  to  be  believed;  but  we  wonder,  fully  agreeing 
with  the  author  of  the  notes  to  the  Journal  de  Henri  III.,  where  this 
lady  could  have  acquired  her  virtue — was  it  at  the  court  or  at  her 
husband's  estate?  Besides  this  gallery  of  pictures  which  is  mentioned 
here,  Louis  Adjecet  (the  French  form  for  Luigi  Ghiaceti)  had  mis- 
tresses with  whom  he  indulged  in  the  low  appetites  of  rich  upstarts. 
He  was  killed  in  1593  by  an  officer;  and  his  wife  withdrew  to  Lan- 
gres,  where  she  lived  with  her  children. 

P.  47:    Ariosto,  Orlando  fwioso,  canto  XLII.,  stanza  98. 

Ecco  un  donzcllo  a  chi  1'ufficio  tocca 

For  su  la  mensa  un  bel  nappo  d'or  fino  .  .  . 

P.  47:  Very  likely  Bernardin  Turissan.  Brantdme  is  perhaps 
referring  to  the  Ragionamento  della  Nanna,  printed  in  Paris  in  1534, 
without  the  name  of  the  publisher.  The  peggio  must  have  been  one 
of  those  infamous  Italian  books  which  the  noblemen  of  the  court 
wrangled  over.  The  Nanna  was  well  known  at  the  French  court 

[363] 


y«miMkW«w»^r/«irr»w<Mr»miri&w^ 


yiwt>s«t»»yt^t»>jtv«j!x»,q!^!x«yw4i^^ 


(see  Le  Divorce  satyrique,  t.  I.  of  the  Journal  de  Henri  III.,  1720 
edition,  p.  190). 

P.  47;  Bernardino  Turisan,  who  used  as  his  sign  the  well-known 
mark  of  the  Manutii,  his  kinsmen. 

P.  47:  Pietro  Aretino  was  born  at  Arezzo  in  Tuscany  in  1492.  The 
natural  son  of  a  plain  gentleman  he  became  the  companion  and 
proteg6  of  Princes,  and  their  unscrupulous  and  adroit  flatterer. 
Friend  of  Michael  Angelo  and  Titian.  His  works  are  full  of  learn- 
ing and  wit, — and  obscenity. 

P.  48:  This  book,  entitled  La  Somme  des  pech6s  et  leg  remedes 
d'iceux  (Compendium  of  all  Sins,  and  the  Remedies  of  the  same), 
printed  at  Lyons,  by  Charles  Pesnot  c.  1584,  4to,  and  several  times 
since,  was  compiled  by  Jean  Benedict,  a  Cordelier  monk  of  Brittany. 
He  has  filled  it  with  filth  and  foulness  as  full  as  did  the  Jesuit  San- 
chez his  treatise  De  Matrimonio  (on  Marriage).  It  is  a  singular  fact 
that  a  work  so  indecent  should  have  been  none  the  less  dedicated 
to  the  Holy  Virgin.  As  we  see  from  the  text,  Brant6me  and  his 
fellows  quite  well  understood  how  to  turn  such  works  to  their 
advantage  and  find  fresh  stories  of  lubricity  in  their  pages. 

P.  49:  This  Bonvisi,  a  Lyons  banker,  had  had  as  receiver  Field 
Marshal  de  Retz,  the  son  of  a  Gondi,  who  had  become  a  bankrupt  in 
Lyons.  (Notes  of  the  Confession  de  Sancy,  1720  edition,  t.  II.,  p.  244.) 

P.  61:  L.  Aurelius  Commodus  (not  Sejanus),  Emperor  A.  D.  180- 
192,  was  the  son  of  the  Emperor  Marcus  Aurelius  and  Faustina. 
Annius  Verus  was  his  brother,  and  received  the  appellation  of  Caesar 
along  with  his  elder  brother  in  166. 

P.  68:    Antonomasia,  properly. 

P.  60:  The  Sanzays  were  a  family  of  Poitou  who  had  settled  in 
Brittany.  Ren6  de  Sanzay,  head  of  the  family  at  the  time  in  question, 
had  four  sons:  Rene,  Christophe,  Claude,  and  Charles.  Ren6  con- 
tinued the  line.  Claude  was  his  lieutenant  in  1569,  as  colonel  of  his 
forces.  Charles  married  and  died  only  in  1646  (?).  Christophe,  the 
second  son,  was  a  prothonotary.  It  seems  that  Brantome  had  Claude 
in  mind.  Moreover,  the  constable  of  Montmorency  having  died  in 
1568  and  Claude  having  been  a  lieutenant  of  his  brother  in  1569,  we 
may  conjecture  that  the  adventure  of  which  Bran  tonic  speaks  had 

[364] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


happened  to  him  previously,  for  the  constable  is  concerned  with  his 
ransom.       (Bib.  Nat.,  Cabinet  des  titres,  art.  Sanzay.) 

P.  61 :    Cicero,  De  officis,  Bk.  IV.,  Chap.  ix. 

P.  61:  The  second  son  of  Charles  V.;  he  was  assassinated  at  the 
Gate  of  Barbette,  at  the  end  of  Rue  Vieille-du-Temple,  in  1407,  by 
the  orders  of  Jean  Sans  peur.  He  had  had  for  a  long  time  adulterous 
relations  with  his  sister-in-law  Isabeau  de  Baviere.  The  woman  in 
question  here  was  Marie  d'Enghien,  wife  of  Aubert  de  Cany  and 
mother  of  the  Batard  d'Orleans.  This  anecdote  has  inspired  several 
story-tellers,  such  as  Bandello,  Strappardo,  Malespini,  etc.  See  also 
the  first  of  the  Cents  Nouvellea  nouvelles. 

P.  61 :  "Candaules  was  the  last  Heracleid  king  of  Lydia.  Accord- 
ing to  the  account  of  Herodotus,  he  was  extremely  proud  of  his  wife's 
beauty,  and  insisted  on  exhibiting  her  unveiled  charms,  but  without 
her  knowledge,  to  Gyges,  his  favourite  officer.  Gyges  was  seen  by 
the  queen,  as  he  was  stealing  from  her  chamber,  and  the  next  day 
she  summoned  him  before  her,  intent  on  vengeance,  and  bade  him 
choose  whether  he  would  undergo  the  punishment  of  death  himself, 
or  would  consent  to  murder  Candaules  and  receive  the  kingdom 
together  with  her  hand.  He  chose  the  latter  alternative,  and  became 
the  founder  of  the  dynasty  of  the  Mermnadae,  about  B.  C.  715." 

P.  62:  Jean  Dunois,  comte  d'Orleans  et  de  Longueville,  Grand 
Chamberlain  of  France,  was  his  natural  son  by  Mariette  d'Enghien, 
wife  of  Aubert  de  Cany-Dunois,  and  is  famous  in  history  under  the 
name  of  the  Bastard  of  Orleans.  Born  at  Paris  1402;  died  1468. 
Distinguished  himself  at  the  sieges  of  Montargis  and  Orleans  (where 
he  was  seconded  by  Jeanne  d'Arc)  and  in  many  other  encounters. 
The  gallant  champion  of  Charles  VII.  and  the  great  enemy  of  the 
English. 

P.  65.  Henri  III.,  1574-1589,  last  king  of  the  House  of  Valois; 
succeeded  Charles  IX. 


P.  65:  Emmanuel  Philibert,  Duke  of  Savoy,  surnamed  Tete  de 
fer.  He  had  married  Marguerite,  sister  of  Henri  II.  It  was  during 
this  journey  that  the  Duchess  Marguerite  tried  to  obtain  from  her 
nephew  Henri  III.  the  retrocession  of  several  fortresses  which  France 
still  held.  (Litta,  t.  VI.,  tav.  xiv.) 

[365] 


Srtflfoffinffiftflfrifl^^ 

NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


P.  66:  Sainte-Soline  abandoned  Strozzi  at  the  battle  of  the  lies 
Ter  Terceres. 

P.  67.  Capaneus  was  one  of  the  mythical  seven  heroes  who  marched 
from  Argos  against  Thebes  (Aeschylus,  Septem  contra  Thebas). 
"During  the  siege,  he  was  presumptuous  enough  to  say,  that  even 
the  fire  of  Zeus  should  not  prevent  his  scaling  the  walls  of  the 
city;  but  when  she  saw  his  body  was  burning,  his  wife  Euadn6 
leaped  into  the  flames  and  destroyed  herself." 

P.  67:  Alcestis  was  a  daughter  of  Pelias,  and  the  wife  of  Admetus, 
King  of  Pherae  in  Thessaly.  According  to  the  legend,  Apollo  having 
induced  the  Fates  to  promise  Admetus  deliverance  from  death,  if 
at  the  hour  of  his  decease  his  father,  mother  or  wife  would  die  for 
him,  Alcestis  sacrificed  herself  for  her  husband's  sake.  But  Heracles 
brought  her  back  again  from  the  underworld,  and  "all  ended  well." 
The  story  is  the  subject  of  Euripides'  beautiful  play  of  Alcestis. 

P.  68:  Tancred,  one  of  the  chief  heroes  of  the  First  Crusade,  was 
the  son  of  Odo  the  Good,  of  Sicily.  Date  of  his  birth  is  uncertain;  he 
died  1112.  Type  of  the  gallant  soldier  and  adventurer  and  the 
"very  perfect,  gentle  knight." 

P.  68:    Philippe  I.— 1060-1108. 

P.  68:  See  Guillaume  de  Tyr,  liv.  XI.,  who  tells  this  anecdote 
about  Tancrede.  Bertrade  d'Anjou,  the  wife  of  Foulques,  had  been 
carried  off  by  Philip  I.,  to  whom  she  bore,  among  other  children, 
C£cile,  who  married  Tancrede. 

P.  68:  Compare  this  Albanian  savagery  with  the  story  of  Council- 
lor Jean  Lavoix,  who  lived  with  the  wife  of  an  attorney  named 
Boulanger.  The  wife  having  decided  to  discontinue  that  liaison,  the 
Councillor  grew  so  furious  that  he  caused  her  to  be  slashed  and  dis- 
figured, although  he  could  not  get  her  nose  cut  off.  He  was  pardoned 
after  having  paid  his  judges.  The  following  song  was  written  about 
him: 

Chasteauvillain,  Poisle  et  Levois, 

Seront  jugez  tous  d'une  voix 

Par  un  arrest  aussi  leger 

Que  fust  celluy  de  Saint-Leger. 

Car  le  malheur  est  tel  en  France 

Que  tout  se  juge  par  la  finance. 

(Bib.  Nat,  ms.  francais,  22563,  f •  101.) 

[366J 


;/«iffiC/sa/«\itow/8tii/«w«W(i\ir^ 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


P.  70:  See  the  Annales  d'Aquitaine,  f°  140  v°. — Jeanne  de  Mon- 
tal,  married  to  Charles  d'Aubusson,  lord  of  La  Borne.  This  Charles 
had  had  a  liaison  with  the  prioress  of  Blessac,  who  bore  him  four 
children.  He  was  tried  for  theft  and  robbery  in  the  convents  of  his 
vicinity,  and  hanged,  February  23,  1533.  (Anselme,  t.  V.,  p.  335.) 
A  genealogy  by  Pierre  Robert  states  precisely  what  Bran  tome  re- 
cords here. 

P.  70:  See  Brantdme  in  the  Lalanne  edition,  t.  VIII.,  p.  148. 
There  must  be  some  mistake  here.  Jacques  d'Aragon,  the  titular  king 
of  Majorca,  died  in  an  expedition  in  1375,  according  to  the  Art  d« 
verifier  let  dates. 

,i 

P.  70:  Charles  VII.  (surnamed  the  Victorious),  crowned  at  Poitiers 
1422,  consecrated  at  Rheims  1429;  died  1461,  the  King  for  whom 
Jeanne  d'Arc  fought  against  the  Burgundians  and  English,  and 
who  really  owed  his  crown  to  her. 

P.  70:     Francis  I.,  1515-1547. 

P.  70:  Jeanne  I.,  Queen  of  Naples,  1353-1381,  daughter  of  Charles 
Duke  of  Calabria  and  grand-daughter  of  the  wise  King  Robert  of 
Naples. 

P.  72:  The  proverb  says,  the  ferret.  It  should  be  the  ermine,  which 
animal  is  said  to  allow  itself  to  be  caught  rather  than  soil  itself. 

P.  72:  The  opinion  that  the  female  ferret  would  die  if  it  did  not 
find  a  male  to  satisfy  her  during  the  mating  season  was  still  held  by 
naturalists  at  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Lalanne  is 
mistaken  about  the  ermine,  which,  on  the  contrary,  dies  of  the 
slightest  contamination: 

Et  moi,  je  suis  si  delicate 
Qu'une  tache  me  fait  mourir. 

(Florian,  Fables,  liv.  III.,  fab.  xiii.) 

P.  78:    Nouvelle  III. 

P.  78:     Unhappy  husbands  were  classified  as  follows: 

Celluy  qui,  marie,  par  sa  femme  est  coqu 

Et  (qui)  pas  ne  le  scait,  d'une  corne  est  cornu. 

[367] 


praffyggpsfflywwwwwwsflgww 

NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


Deux  en  a  cestui-la  qui  peut  dissimuler; 

Qui  le  voit  et  le  souffre,  icelluy  trois  en  porte; 

Et  quatre  cestui-la  qui  meine  pour  culler 

Chez  lui  des  poursuivans.     Cil  qui  en  toute  sorte 

Dit  qu'il  n'est  de  ceux-la,  et  en  sa  femme  croid, 

Cinq  cornes  pour  certain  sur  le  front  on  lui  void. 

(Bib.  Nat.,  ms.  fran£ais  22565,  f°  41.) 

P.  79:  It  was  the  marriage  of  Marguerite  of  France,  the  Duchess 
de  Savoie,  to  Emmanuel  PhUibert,  the  Duke  de  Savoie,  which  caused 
the  army  to  grumble. 

P.  79:     Boccaccio,  Seventh  tale  of  the  second  day. 

P.  79 :  Brantome  alludes  here  most  likely  to  Marguerite  of  France, 
sister  of  Henri  II.,  who  was  45  when  she  married  the  Duke  of 
Savoy. 

P.  80:  Mile,  de  Limeuil  was  the  mistress  of  the  Prince  de  Cond6. 
During  the  journey  of  the  court  at  Lyons,  in  July,  1564,  she  was  con- 
fined in  the  cabinet  of  the  queen  mother,  who  was  so  furious  that  she 
had  her  locked  up  in  a  Franciscan  monastery  at  Auxonne.  But  the 
Confession  de  Sancy  and  several  authors  of  that  time  differ  from 
Brantome  in  saying  that  the  child  was  a  son  and  not  a  daughter,  and 
died  immediately  after  birth.  The  Huguenots  wrote  verses  about 
the  adventure;  but  the  young  lady  nevertheless  married  an  Italian, 
Scipion  Sardini,  for  whom  she  soon  forgot  the  Prince  de  Conde. 
Mile,  de  Limeuil  called  herself  Isabelle  de  La  Tour  de  Turenne,  and 
was  Dame  de  Limeuil. 

P.  81:  Cosimo  I,  Duke  of  Tuscany.  Besides,  Pope  Alexander  VI. 
was  also  in  a  somewhat  similar  situation. 

P.  82:  Ferdinand  II.,  King  of  Naples,  1495-96.  Died  prematurely 
at  the  age  of  26.  Ferdinand  II.  married  the  sister  of  his  father,  the 
daughter  of  the  king  of  Naples  and  not  of  Castile. 

P.  86:  An  ancient  city  of  Italy.  At  the  fort  of  Monte  Cimino, 
in  the  Campagna  40  miles  NN  W.  of  Rome. 

P.  86:  La  Nanna  by  Aretino,  in  the  chapter  on  married  women, 
tells  of  similar  practices  of  deception  regarding  the  virtue  of  newly 
married  women. 

[368] 


M»^?^wyj!AW/wgff7WffiffWMgffl 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


P.  89:  Henry  IV.  of  Castile,  1454-1474,  a  feeble  and  dissipated 
Prince,  was  a  brother  of  Isabelle  of  Castile.  The  young  man  chosen 
was  not  a  nobleman,  but  simply  an  Antinous  of  negligible  origin 
whom  the  king  created  Duke  d' Albuquerque.  A  child,  Jeanne,  was 
born  of  this  complacent  match,  but  she  did  not  reign.  Castile  pre- 
ferred Henri  III.'s  sister,  Isabelle. 

P.  89:  Fulgosius  (Battista  Fregose),  born  at  Genoa  1440,  of  a 
family  famous  in  Genoese  history,  and  for  a  time  Doge  of  his  native 
City.  His  chief  Work,  Factorum  et  Dictorum  Memorabilium  libri 
IX.  (Memorable  Deeds  and  Words,  9  bks.),  has  been  more  than 
once  reprinted.  This  particular  statement  is  to  be  found  in  ch.  3.  of 
Bk.  IX. 

P.  91:  We  have  here,  perhaps,  a  discreet  allusion  to  Henri  IV.'s 
passion  for  Mile,  de  Tignonville,  who  had  been  unmanageable  until 
she  married.  (See  the  Confession  de  Sancy,  and  t.  II.,  p.  128,  of  the 
Journal  de  Henri  7/7.) 

P.  94:  Francois  de  Lorraine,  Due  de  Guise,  who  was  killed  by 
Poltrot. 

P.  96:  The  famous  Diane  de  Poitiers,  eldest  daughter  of  Jean  de 
Poitiers,  Seigneur  de  St.  Vallier,  belonging  to  one  of  the  most 
ancient  families  in  Dauphine,  was  born  1499.  At  the  age  of  13  she 
was  married  to  Louis  de  Breze,  Comte  de  Maulevrier,  Grand  Senes- 
chal of  Normandy.  She  became  a  widow  in  1531.  The  story  of 
Francois  I.  having  pardoned  her  father  at  the  price  of  her  honour, 
as  told  by  Brantome  and  others,  is  apparently  apocryphal.  It  was 
not  till  after  the  death  of  her  husband,  to  whom  she  was  faithful 
and  whose  name  she  honoured,  that  she  became  the  mistress  of 
Francois  I.  She  was  as  renowned  for  her  wit  and  charms  of  mind 
as  for  her  beauty.  Died  1566. 

P.  96:  M.  de  Saint- Vallier,  father  of  Diane  de  Poitiers.  It  is  not 
known  whether  he  uttered  the  word,  but  his  pardon  came  in  time. 
The  headsman  had  already  begged  his  pardon,  according  to  custom, 
for  killing  him,  and  was  about  to  cut  his  head  off  when  a  clerk, 
Mathieu  Delot,  rose  and  read  the  royal  letter  which  commuted  the 
capital  sentence  to  imprisonment.  The  letter  is  dated  February  17, 
1523.  (Ms.  Saint-Germain,  1556,  f°  74.) 

P.  97:     Duke  d'Etampes,  chevalier  of  the  order  and  governor  of 

[369] 


)g«BratffW^Bff^lff^Brai?P^lff^ 

NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


Brittany,  an  obliging  and  kind  husband. — Francois  de  Vivonne,  lord 
of  La  Chasteigneraie,  was  among  the  least  meek-minded  of  the  court. 
Princess  de  La  Roche-sur-Yon  having  stupidly  asked  him  one  day 
for  a  domestic  favor,  he  called  her  "a  little  muddy  princess,"  which 
afforded  King  Francis  I.  no  little  laughter.  He  was  killed  by  Jarnac 
in  a  famous  duel. 

P.  98:  An  allusion  to  the  demon  who  threw  to  the  ground  the 
archangel  Saint  Michael,  and  who  was  represented  on  the  collar  of 
the  order.  It  is  rather  difficult  to  know  of  which  lady  Bran  tome 
is  speaking  here:  the  collar  of  Saint  Michael  had  been  given  to  so 
many  people  that  it  was  called  "the  collar  for  all  animals."  (Castel- 
nau,  Memoires,  I.,  p.  363.) 

P.  99:  Where  did  Brantome  get  this  story?  Gui  de  CMtillon  had 
expended  on  banquets  the  greater  part  of  his  fortune  and  sold  his 
county  to  Louis  d'Orleans;  the  latter  was  merely  seventeen  at  the 
time.  It  is  difficult  to  admit  that  he  could  have  carried  on  a  liaison 
with  a  woman  so  ripe  in  years.  After  the  death  of  Gui,  Marguerite 
married  an  officer  of  the  Duke  d'Orleans. 

P.  101:  Apparently  Queen  Marguerite  de  Valois.  Marguerite  de 
Valois,  sister  of  Francois  I.,  was  born  at  Angouleme  in  1492.  Mar- 
ried in  1509  to  Charles  4th  Due  d'Alen^on,  who  died  (1525)  soon 
after  the  disastrous  battle  of  Pavia,  at  which  Francois  I.  was  taken 
prisoner.  In  1527  she  married  Henri  d'Albret,  king  of  Navarre.  She 
was  a  Princess  of  many  talents  and  accomplishments,  and  the  delight 
of  her  brother  Francois  I.,  who  called  her  his  Mignonne,  and  his 
Marguerite  des  Marguerites;  Du  Bellay  and  Clement  Marot  were 
both  members  of  her  literary  coterie.  Authoress  of  the  famous 
Heptameron,  or  Nouvelles  de  la  Reine  de  Navarre,  composed  in 
imitation  of  Boccaccio's  Decameron.  Died  1549. 

P.  101 :  This  is  also  an  allusion  to  Queen  Marguerite.  Martigues, 
one  of  her  lovers,  had  received  from  her  a  scarf  and  a  little  dog  which 
he  wore  at  the  tournaments. 

P.  103:  Henri  III.,  who  had  a  short-lived  affair  with  Catherine 
Charlotte  de  La  Tremoille,  the  wife  of  Prince  de  Cond6.  But  the 
victory  was  too  easy;  the  princess  was  quite  corrupt.  Later  on, 
the  king  prostituted  her  with  one  of  his  pages,  with  whom  she  con- 
spired to  poison  her  husband.  The  plot  failed.  When  brought  before 
the  Court,  she  was  pardoned;  but  a  servant  named  Brilland  was  torn 

[370] 


NOTES    AND    APPENDICES 


apart  by  four  horses.     It  was  also  Henri  III.  who  had  debauched 
Marie  de  Cleves,  the  first  wife  of  the  same  Prince  de  Cond6. 

P.  103:  May  very  well  refer  to  Henri  de  Lorraine,  Due  de  Guise, 
assassinated  at  Blois. 

P.  103:  Most  probably  refers  to  Marguerite  de  Valois,  the  king  of 
Navarre,  the  Due  d'Anjou  and  the  St.  Bartholomew. 

P.  105:  Louis  de  Be>anger  du  Guasi,  one  of  Henri  III.'s  favorites, 
assassinated  in  1575  by  M.  de  Viteaux.  His  epitaph  is  in  the  Manu- 
tcrit  franqais  22565,  f°  901°  (Bibliotheque  Nationale).  Brantdme, 
who  boasts  of  being  a  swordsman,  forgets  that  D'Aubigne  was 
also  one. 

P.  105:  A  small  town  of  Brittany  (Dep.  Ille-et-Vilaine),  14  miles 
from  St.  Malo.  Has  a  cathedral  of  12th  and  13th  centuries;  the 
bishopric  was  suppressed  in  1790. 

P.  107:  To  take  a  journey  to  Saint-Mathurin  was  a  proverbial 
expression  which  meant  that  a  person  was  mad.  Henri  Estienne  says 
that  this  is  a  purely  imaginary  saint;  be  that  as  it  may,  he  was  cred- 
ited with  curing  madmen,  and  the  satirical  songs  of  the  time  are  full 
of  allusions  to  that  healing  power.  (See  Journal  de  Henri  III,  1720 
edition,  t.  II.,  pp.  307  and  308.) 

P.  108:  Lalanne  proves  by  a  passage  from  Spartianus  that  this 
anecdote  is  apocryphal,  or  that  at  least  Brantdme  has  embellished 
it  for  his  own  needs.  (Dames,  torn.  IX.,  p.  116.) 

P.  108:  Hadrian  (P.  Aelius  Hadrianus),  14th  in  the  series  of 
Roman  Emperors,  A.  D.  117-138,  succeeded  his  guardian  and  kins- 
man Trajan.  His  wife,  Sabina,  here  mentioned,  was  a  grand-daughter 
of  Trajan's  sister  Marciana. 

P.  109:  Marcus  Aurelius  Antoninus  ("The  Philosopher")  suc- 
ceeded Antonius  Pius  as  Emperor  in  A.  D.  168.  Died  180.  His  wife 
Faustina  (as  profligate  a  woman  as  Messalina  herself)  was  daughter 
of  Pius.  Author  of  the  famous  Meditations.  His  son  Commodus, 
who  succeeded  him  as  Emperor,  was  a  complete  contrast  in  charac- 
ter to  his  father,  being  vicious,  weak,  cruel  and  dissolute. 

P.  109:    Another  embellished  passage.     Faustina  had  died  before 

[371] 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


Antoninus  Commodus  was  emperor.  Moreover,  she  was  only  washed 
(sublevare,  says  the  text)  with  the  blood  of  the  gladiator.  (J.  Capi- 
tolin,  Marc-Antoine  le  Philosophe,  Chap,  xix.) 

P.  113:  A  discreet  and  veiled  allusion  to  the  amours  of  Mar- 
guerite de  Valois  and  of  the  Duchess  de  Nevers  with  La  M&le  and 
Coconas.  Implicated  in  the  affair  of  Field  Marshals  de  Cosse  and 
de  Montmorency,  La  Mole,  a  Provenyal  nobleman,  and  Coconas,  a 
Piedmontese,  were  beheaded  on  the  square  of  Greve  towards  the  end 
of  April,  1574,  and  not  killed  jn  battle  as  Brantdme  tries  to  insinuate. 
The  two  princesses,  mad  with  despair,  transported  the  bodies  in  their 
carriages  to  the  place  of  burial,  at  Montmartre,  and  kept  the  heads, 
which  they  had  had  embalmed.  (MAmoires  de  Nevers,  I.,  p.  75,  and 
Le  Divorce  satirique.) 

P.  114:  It  is  Philippe  Strozzi,  Field  Marshal  of  France,  who  was 
born  at  Venice.  Made  lieutenant  of  the  naval  army  in  1579  in  order 
to  further  the  pretensions  of  Antonio  of  Portugal,  he  was  defeated, 
July  28,  1583,  and  put  to  death  in  cold  blood  by  Santa  Cruz,  his  rival. 
(Vie  et  mart  .  .  .  de  Philippe  Strozzi.  Paris,  Guil.  Lenoir,  1608.) 

P.  119:  Thomas  de  Foix,  lord  of  L'Escu  or  Lescun,  was  the 
brother  of  Mme.  de  Chateaubriant,  mistress  of  Francois  !«-.  He  was 
captured  at  Pavia  and  carried,  mortally  wounded,  to  the  home  of  the 
lady  of  whom  Brantome  speaks.  It  was  he  who,  by  the  surrender  of 
Cremona  in  1522,  caused  France  to  lose  Italy.  (Guicciardini,  t.  III., 
p.  473,  Fribourg  edition,  1775.) 

P.  120:  Paolo  Jovio,  Dialogo  delle  imprese  militari  ed  amorose, 
1559,  p.  13. 

P.  120:  Blaise  de  Montluc,  author  of  the  Commentaires,  a  diaboli- 
cal Gascon,  made  Field  Marshal  of  France  in  1574.  The  siege  of  La 
Rochelle,  which  is  here  mentioned,  took  place  in  1573.  For  details 
on  this  personage,  see  the  De  Ruble  edition  of  the  Commentaires, 
1854-74,  5  vols. 

P.  120:  Paulus  Jovius  (Paolo  Giovio),  Historian,  was  a  native  of 
Como;  born  1483,  died  1552. 

P.  122:  In  his  Contre-Repentie  (fol.  444,  A.  of  his  Works,  1576). 
Joachim  du  Bellay,  the  poet,  was  born  about  1524  at  Lire  in  Anjou, 
of  a  noble  and  distinguished  family  of  that  Province.  After  an 

[372] 


WrmrffirStrrSltrwr?^^ 

NOTES    AND    APPENDICES 


Wma^f^oaimimiS^^ 


unfortunate  youth,  his  talents  ensured  him  a  welcome  at  the  Court 
of  Francois  I.  and  his  sister  Marguerite  de  Valois,  where  he  spent 
some  years.  Died  young,  after  a  life  of  ill  health,  in  1560. 

P.  122:  Francis  Rabelais  was  born  about  1483  at  Chinon  in  Tou- 
raine,  where  his  father  was  an  apothecary.  After  a  stormy  youth 
and  some  years  spent  as  a  Monk  in  more  than  one  Monastery  of 
more  than  one  Order,  and  later  wandering  the  country  as  a  vaga- 
bond secular  priest,  he  was  admitted  Doctor  in  the  Faculty  of 
Medicine  at  Montpellier.  Countless  stories  of  his  pranks  and  ad- 
ventures are  told,  many  no  doubt  mythical.  He  visited  Rome  as 
well  as  most  parts  of  France  in  the  course  of  his  life.  He  died 
Cur6  of  Meudon,  about  1553. 

P.  123:  Chastity-belts  of  this  sort  were  already  in  use  at  Venice 
at  the  time. 

P.  123:  There  is  in  the  Hennin  collection  of  prints  at  the  Bibli- 
otheque  Nationale  (t.  III.,  f°  64)  a  satirical  print  representing  what 
Brantome  relates  here.  A  lady  returns  to  her  husband  the  key;  but 
behind  the  bed,  the  lover,  hidden  by  a  duenna,  receives  from  the 
latter  a  key  similar  to  the  husband's.  This  instrument  of  jealousy 
was  the  cingulum  pudicitice  of  the  Romans,  the  "Florentine  lock"  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  Henri  Aldegraver  also  engraved  on  the  sheath 
of  a  dagger  a  lady  who  is  adorned  with  a  lock  of  this  kind.  (Bartsch, 
Peintre-Graveur,  VIII.,  p.  437.)  These  refinements  in  jealousy  as 
well  as  the  refinements  in  debauchery  (of  which  Brantome  will  speak 
later)  were  of  Italian  origin.  (See  on  this  subject  La  Description 
de  Vile  des  Hermaphrodites,  Cologne,  1724,  p.  43.) 

P.  124:    Lampride,  Alexandre  Severe,  Chap.  XXII. 

P.  125:  Nicolas  d'Estouteville,  lord  of  Villeconnin,  and  not  Ville- 
couvin,  nobleman  of  the  Chambre,  died  in  Constantinople  in  February, 
1567.  He  had  gone  to  Turkey  to  forget  a  disappointment  in  love 
or  in  politics.  Here  is  his  epitaph: 

Le  preux  Villeconin  en  la  fleur  de  ses  ans,  5 

Helas !  a  delaisse  nos  esbatz  si  plaisans, 
Laissant  au  temple  sainct  de  la  digne  Memoire 
Son  labeur,  son  renom,  son  honneur  et  sa  gloire. 

P.  127:    Dr.  Subtil,  surname  of  J.  Scott  or  Duns. 

[373] 


NOTES    AND    APPENDICES 


SRaMiJyiBySMlMliyJl^^ 
P.  128:     Saint  Sophronie. 

P.  128:  See  De  Thou  liv.  XLIX.  There  were,  at  the  court  of 
France,  other  women  who  had  escaped  from  Cyprus  and  who  scarcely 
resembled  this  heroine.  Temoin  de  la  Dayelle,  of  whom  Brantdme 
speaks  in  the  Dames  illustres,  in  the  chapter  on  the  Medicis.  (Jour- 
nal de  Henri  III,,  1720  edition,  t.  II.,  p.  142.) 

P.  132:  Guillot  le  Songeur  is,  according  to  Lalanne,  Don  Guilan 
el  Cuidador  of  the  Amadis  de  Gaule. 

P.  132:  "Guillot  le  Songeur,"  a  name  applied  to  any  Pensive  man,  — 
from  the  knight  Julian  le  Pensif,  one  of  the  characters  of  the 
Amadis  of  Gaul. 

P.  136:  Danae,  daughter  of  Acrisius,  King  of  Argos,  who  con- 
fined her  in  brazen  tower,  where  Jupiter  obtained  access  in  the  form 
of  a  golden  shower. 

P.  137:  An  allusion  to  Duke  Henri  de  Guise.  His  wife  Catherine 
de  Cleves  had,  in  addition  to  her  "bed  lovers,"  many  other  intrigues. 
(See  the  Confession  de  Sancy,  Chap.  VIII.,  notes.) 

P.  138:  Trajan  (M.Ulpius  Trajanus),  Emperor  A.  D.  98-117.  His 
wife  Plotina,  here  mentioned,  was  a  woman  of  extraordinary  merits 
and  virtues,  according  to  the  statements  of  all  writers,  with  one  ex- 
ception, who  speak  of  her.  She  persuaded  her  husband  to  adopt 
Hadrian  who  became  his  successor;  but  Dion  Cassius  is  the  only 
author  who  says  a  word  as  to  her  intercourse  with  the  latter  having 
been  of  a  criminal  character,  and  such  a  thing  is  utterly  opposed  to 
all  we  know  of  her  character. 

P.  141:  This  refers  very  likely  to  Brantome's  voyage  to  Scotland. 
He  had  accompanied  Queen  Mary  Stuart  in  August,  1561,  at  the 
time  of  her  departure  from  France.  Riccio,  who  was  the  favorite 
of  "low  rank,"  had  arrived  one  year  later;  but  Brantdme,  who  is 
relating  something  which  happened  a  long  time  before,  is  not  pre- 
cise: he  is  unquestionably  responding  to  a  request  of  Queen  Catherine. 

P.  144:  In  this  passage,  where  Brant&me  cleverly  avows  his  wiles 
as  a  courtier,  he  refers  to  the  Queen  of  Spain,  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of 
Philip  II.  The  sister  of  the  princess  was  Marguerite,  Queen  of 
Navarre.  The  two  young  infantas,  whose  portraits  are  examined 

[374] 


MWKMWfi®^ 

NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


in  detail,  were:  the  first,  Isabella  Claire  Eugenie  (later  married  to 
Albert  of  Austria),  who  became  a  nun  towards  the  end  of  her  life; 
the  other,  Catherine,  married  Charles  Emmanuel  de  Savoie  in  1585. 
It  is  difficult  to-day  to  see  the  resemblance  of  the  two  princesses  to 
their  father,  in  spite  of  the  great  number  of  portraits  of  all  these 
personages;  in  fact,  we  can  say  that  they  were  scarcely  more  beauti- 
ful than  their  mother.  (Cf.  the  beautiful  portrait  in  crayon  of  Queen 
Elizabeth  at  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  Estampes  Na  21,  f°  69.) 

P.  144:     The  two  Joyeuses:  M.  du  Bouchage,  and  a  gay  companion. 

P.  145:  Marguerite  de  Lorraine,  married  to  Anne  (Duke)  de 
Joyeuse,  the  favorite  of  Henri  III.  The  sister-in-law  of  whom 
Bran  tome  speaks  could  be  neither  Mme.  du  Bouchage  nor  Mme.  de 
Mercoeur,  who  were  spared  by  the  crudest  pamphleteers;  he  un- 
doubtedly refers  to  Henriette,  Duchess  de  Montpensier. 

P.  146:  Francois  de  Venddme,  vidam  of  Chartres?  (See  Ftene»t«, 
1729  edition,  p.  345.) 

P.  148:    Ariosto,  Orlando  furioto,  canto  V.,  stanza  57: 

lo  non  credo,  signer,  che  ti  sia  nova 
La  legge  nostra  .  .  . 

P.  149:  How  can  Brant6me,  who  had  friends  in  the  Huguenot 
camp,  deliberately  relate  such  absurd  tales? 

P.  150:  There  is  a  close  likeness  between  this  woman  and  the 
Godard  de  Blois,  a  Huguenot,  who  was  hanged  for  adultery  in 
the  year  1563. 

P.  152:  At  that  period  several  persons  bore  the  name  of  Beauliea. 
Brantome  may  have  in  mind  Captain  Beaulieu,  who  held  Vincennes 
for  the  Ligue  in  1594.  (Chron.  Novenn.  III.,  liv.  VII.)  The  chief 
prior  was  Charles  de  Lorraine,  son  of  the  Duke  de  Guise. 

P.  154:  The  Comtesse  de  Senizon  was  accused  of  having  contrived 
his  escape,  and  brought  to  book  for  it. 

P.  155:  According  to  his  habit,  Brantome  disfigures  what  he 
quotes.  Vesta  Oppia  alone  has  the  right  to  the  name  of  "good 

[375] 


NOTES    AND    APPENDICES 


!tW!m»K?;»4^nWWW,^ 


woman";    Cluvia  was   a  profession-courtesan.      (Cf.   Livy,  XXVI., 
Chap,  xxxiii.) 

P.  156:     This  more  human  reason  is  probably  truer  than  the  one 
generally  given  of  Jean's  chivalrous  conduct  regarding  his  pledge. 

P.  156:    Jean    (surnamed  le   Bon),   King   of    France,    1350-1364. 
Taken  prisoner  by  Edward  the  Black  Prince  at  the  battle  of  Poitiers. 

P.  159:     Proverb  marking  the  small  connection  that  often  exists 
between  gifts  of  body  and  good  qualities  of  mind  and  character. 

P.  164:    The  quotation  as  given  in  the  text  is  mutilated  and  the 
words  transposed.     It  should  read: 

"Si  tibi  simplicitas  uxoria,  deditus  uni 
Est  animus : 


Nil  unquam  invita  donabis  conjuge:  vendes 
Hac  obstante  nihil ;  nihil,  haec  si  nolit,  emetur." 

JUVEXAL,  Sat.  VI,  205  sqq. 

that  is  to  say,  "If  you  are  attached  solely  and  entirely  to  your  wife, 
.  .  .  you  will  not  be  able  to  give  a  thing  away,  or  sell  or  buy  a  thing, 
without  her  consent." 

P.  164:  They  used  to  say  of  those  Italian  infamies:  "In  Spagna, 
gli  preti;  in  Francia,  i  grandi;  in  Italia,  tutti  quanti." 

P.  164:  Why  not  let  Boccaccio  have  the  responsibility  of  this 
baseness?  (Decameron,  Vth  day,  Xth  story.) 

P.  168:  Christine  de  Lorraine,  daughter  of  Duke  Charles,  married 
to  Ferdinand  I.  de  Medici.  This  young  princess  had  arrived  in  Italy 
adorned  in  her  rich  French  gowns,  which  she  soon  cast  off  in  favor 
of  Italian  fashions.  This  concession  quickly  made  her  a  favorite. 
It  was  at  the  wedding  of  Christine  that  the  first  Italian  operas  were 
performed.  (Litta,  Medici  di  Firenze,  IV.,  tav.  xv.) 

P.  171:  Brantome  is  very  likely  thinking  of  Princess  de  Conde, 
whom  Pisani  brought  before  the  Parliament,  which  acquitted  her. 

P.  174-175:  Probably  an  allusion  to  Mme.  de  Sinners  and  not  to 
Marguerite  de  Valois,  as  Lalanne  thinks.  More  tenacious  if  not  more 

[376] 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


constant  than  the  princess,  Louise  de  Vitry,  Lady  de  Simiers,  lost 
successively  Charles  d'Humieres  at  Ham,  Admiral  de  Villars  at 
Dourlens,  and  the  Duke  de  Guise,  whom  she  deeply  loved  and  who 
gave  her  so  little  in  return;  this  does  not  include  Count  de  Radan, 
who  died  at  Issoire,  and  others  of  less  importance.  When  she  reached 
old  age,  old  Desportes  alone  remained  for  her.  He  had  been  her  first 
lover,  a  poet,  whom  she  had  forgotten  among  her  warriors;  but  it 
was  much  too  late  for  both  of  them. 

P.  175:     Brantdme  is  mistaken;  it  is  Seius  and  not  Sejanus. 

P.  177:  Theodore  de  Beze,  the  Reformer;  born  at  V&telais,  in  the 
Nivernais,  1519.  Author,  scholar,  jurist  and  theologian.  Died  1595. 

P.  178:  All  the  satirical  authors  agree  in  charging  Catherine 
de'Medici  with  this  radical  change  of  the  old  French  manners.  It 
would  be  juster  to  think  also  of  the  civil  wars  in  Italy,  which  were 
not  without  influence  upon  the  looseness  of  the  armies,  and,  therefore, 
upon  the  whole  of  France. 

P.  179:     It  is  the  91st  epigram  of  Bk.  I. 

P.  180:  Isabella  de  Luna,  a  famous  courtesan  mentioned  by  Ban- 
dello. 

P.  180:  Cardinal  d'Armagnac  was  Georges,  born  in  1502,  who 
was  successively  ambassador  in  Italy  and  archbishop  of  Toulouse,  and 
finally  archbishop  of  Evignon. 

P.  181:  Quotation  badly  understood.  Crissantis,  in  the  Latin 
verse,  is  a  participle  and  not  a  proper  noun.  (Cf.  Juvenal,  sat.  iv.) 

P.  181:    FiUnes,  from  Philenus,  a  courtesan  in  Lucian. 

P.  181:    The  line  should  read, 

Ipsa  Medullinae  frictum  crissantis  adorat. 

P.  184:  Bran  tome  seems  to  speak  of  himself;  yet  he  might  merely 
have  played  the  side  role  of  confidant  in  the  comedy. 

P.  187:  Brantome  refers  to  the  Dialogue  de  la  beaute  des  dames. 
Marguerite  d'Autriche  is  not  (as  he  says)  the  Duchess  de  Savoie, 

[377] 


ffi/iw^bwiMMU    •    *    •    «    •    •  ^VuvaiM 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


BMB^i&ifflyiiiyaiy^i^^ 

who  died  in  1530,  but  the  natural  daughter  of  the  Emperor;  she 
married  Alessandro  de'Medici,  and  later  Ottavio  Farnese. 

P.  189:  The  famous  Church  of  Brou,  at  Bourg,  was  built  in  1511-36 
by  the  beautiful  Marguerite  of  Austria,  wife  of  Philobert  II.,  le 
Beau,  Duke  of  Savoy,  in  fulfilment  of  a  vow  made  by  Marguerite  of 
Bourbon,  her  mother-in-law.  It  contains  the  magnificent  tombs 
of  Marguerite  herself,  her  husband  and  mother-in-law.  Celebrated 
in  a  well-known  poem,  "The  Church  of  Brou,"  of  Matthew  Arnold. 

P.  190:  Jean  de  Meung,  the  poet  (nicknamed  Clopinel  on  account 
of  his  lameness),  was  born  at  the  small  town  of  Meung-sur-Loire  in 
the  middle  of  the  Xlllth  Century.  Died  at  Paris  somewhere  about 
1320.  His  famous  Roman  de  la  Rose  was  a  continuation  of  an 
earlier  work  of  the  same  name  by  Guillaume  de  Lorris,  completed 
and  published  in  its  final  form  by  Jean  de  Meung. 

P.  192:  Twenty-sixth  Tale.  It  is  Lord  d'Avesnes,  Gabriel 
d'Albret 

P.  194:     Claudia  Quinta  (Livy  XXIX,  14). 

P.  196:  Plutarch,  CEuvres  melees,  LXXVII,  t.  II.,  p.  167,  in  the 
1808  edition. 

P.  200:  The  vogue  of  drawers  dated  from  about  1577;  three  years 
later  the  hoop  was  in  great  favor  and  served  to  do  away  with  the 
petticoat.  Brant6me  probably  means  that  the  lady  discards  the  petti- 
coat and  wears  the  hoop  over  the  drawers. 

P.  212:  The  pun  on  raynette  and  raye  nette  cannot  be  reproduced 
in  English. 

P.  213:  Etienne  Pasquier,  the  great  lawyer  and  opponent  of  the 
Jesuits,  was  born  at  Paris,  1529;  died  1615. 

P.  213:  Thibaut,  sixth  of  the  name,  Comte  de  Champagne  et  Brie, 
subsequently  King  of  Navarre,  was  born  1201.  Surnamed  Fai»e*r 
de  Chansons  from  his  poetic  achievements.  Brought  up  at  the 
Court  of  Philippe-Auguste.  The  whole  romance  of  his  love  for 
Queen  Blanche  of  Castillo  is  apparently  apocryphal;  it  rests  almost 
entirely  on  statements  of  one  (English)  historian,  Matthew  Paris.  She 
was  16  years  older  than  he,  and  is  never  once  mentioned  in  his  poems. 

[378] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


P.  213:  E.  Pasquier,  (Euvres,  1723,  t.  II,  p.  38.  "Which  of  the 
two,"  says  Pasquier,  "brings  more  satisfaction  to  a  lover — to  feel 
and  touch  his  love  without  speaking  to  her,  or  to  see  and  speak  to  her 
without  touching  her?"  In  the  dialogue  between  Thibaut  de  Cham- 
pagne and  Count  de  Soissons,  Thibaut  preferred  to  speak. 

P.  215:  Brantome  aims  here  at  Queen  Catherine  de'Medici  and 
her  favorites. 

P.  215:     Cf.  Plutarch,  De  Stoicorum  repugnant! is,  c.  xxi. 

P.  216:  Id.,  Demetrius,  cap.  xxvii.  Brantdme  is  mistaken;  the 
woman  in  question  was  Thonis. 

P.  216:    Eighteenth  Tale. 

P.  216:  The  "wheel  of  the  nose"  was  a  sort  of  "mask  beard"  that 
women  wore  in  cold  weather;  it  was  attached  to  the  hood  below 
the  eyes. 

P.  220:  It  was  Francois  de  Compeys,  lord  of  Gruffy,  who  sold 
his  estate  in  1518  in  order  to  expatriate  himself. 

P.  221:  It  is  not  three  but  four  S's  that  the  perfect  lover  must 
carry  with  him,  according  to  Luis  Barabona  (Lagrlmas  de  Angelica, 
canto  IV.),  and  these  four  S's  mean: 

SABIO,  SOLO,  SOLICITO  ET  SEGRETO. 

These  initial  letters  were  much  in  vogue  in  Spain  during  the  sixteenth 
century. 

P.  224:  This  story  was  popular  in  Paris;  it  was  amplified  and 
embellished  into  a  drama  and  ascribed  to  Marguerite  de  Bourgogne. 
Was  it  not  Isabeau  de  Baviere? 

P.  224:  Isabeau,  or  Isabelle,  de  Baviere,  wife  of  the  half  imbecile 
Charles  VI.  of  France,  and  daughter  of  Stephen  II.,  Duke  of 
Bavaria,  was  born  1371;  died  1435.  Among  countless  other  in- 
trigues was  one  with  the  Due  d'Orleans,  her  husband's  brother. 
One  of  her  lovers,  Louis  de  Boisbourdon,  was  thrown  into  the 
Seine  in  a  leather  sack  inscribed  Laisscz  patter  la  justice  du  rot. 
The  famous  story  of  the  Tour  de  Nesles  seems  mythical. 

[379] 


BraiffW5Sfgl?mffWKlg^!ffW^^^ 

NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 

ais-ai^aiyfliyti^jfiagB^^ 

P.  225:  See  under  Buridan,  in  Bayle's  Diet.  Critique.  Compare  also 
Villon,  in  his  Ballade  of  the  Dames  des  Temps  Jadit  (Fair  Dames 
of  Yore) : 

Semblablement  ou  est  la  reine, 

Qui  commanda  que  Buridan 

Fust  jet6  en  un  sac  en  Seine? 

(Likewise  where  is  the  Queen,  who  commanded  Buridan  to  be 
cast  in  a  sack  into  the  Seine?) 

P.  227:    Plutarch,  Anthony,  Chap,  xxxii. 

P.  229:  Livy,  lib.  XXX.,  cap.  xv.  Appien,  De  Rebus  punicis, 
XXVII. 

P.  229:    Joachim  du  Bellay,  (Euvres  pottiques,  1597. 

P.  229:  La  Vieille  Courtisane  ("The  Old  Courtesan"),  fol.  449. 
B.  of  the  (Euvres  poet,  of  Joachim  du  Bellay,  edition  of  1597. 

P.  230:     This  pun  is  difficult  to  explain. 
P.  231:     Lucian,  Amours,  XV. 

P.  235:  Marguerite,  wife  of  Henri  IV.,  whose  elegance  drew  from 
the  old  Queen  Catherine  this  remark:  "No  matter  where  you  may 
go,  the  court  will  take  the  fashion  from  you,  and  not  you  from  the 
court." 

(Brantome,  Eloge  de  la  reine  Marguerite.) 

P.  235:     Brantome  alludes  to  the  Duke  d'Anjou. 

P.  235:  Jeanne  de  Navarre,  wife  of  Philippe  le  Bel,  King  of 
France,  daughter  and  sole  heiress  of  Henri  I.  of  Navarre,  was  born 
1272,  died  1305  at  the  early  age  of  33.  She  was  a  beautiful  and 
accomplished  Princess,  and  the  tales  told  by  some  historians  reflecting 
on  her  character  are  apparently  quite  without  foundation. 

P.  235:  The  Divorce  satyrique  attributes  this  contrivance  to  Queen 
Marguerite,  who  adopted  it  to  make  her  husband,  the  King  of  Navarre, 
more  deeply  enamoured  and  more  naughty. 

P.  236:    These  are  taken  from  an  old  French  book  entitled:  De  la 

[380] 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


louange  et  beaute  des  Dames  ("  Of  the  Praise  and  Beauty  of 
Ladies").  Francois  Corniger  has  put  the  same  into  18  Latin  lines. 
Vencentio  Calmeta  has  rendered  them  also  into  Italian  verse, 
commencing  with  the  words:  Dolce  Flaminia. 

P.  236:     Pliny  speaks  of  this  Helen  of  Zeuxis. 

P.  237:  Ronsard,  (Euvres,  1584  edition,  p.  112.  It  is  a  poem 
addressed  to  the  famous  painter  Clouet,  according  to  Janet,  in  which 
the  poet  sings  the  praises  of  his  fair  lady.  This  poem  has  more  than 
one  point  in  common  with  the  present  chapter  of  the  Dames. 

P.  238:  Marot  had  arranged  this  Spanish  proverb  into  a  qua- 
train, and  at  the  time  of  the  Ligue  it  was  applied  to  the  Infanta 
of  Spain: 

Pourtant,  si  je  suis  brunette, 
Amy,  n'en  prenez  esmoy, 
Car  autant  aymer  souhaitte 
Qu'une  plus  blanche  que  moy. 

P.  239:  Raymond  Lulle  was  a  native  of  Majorca,  and  lived 
towards  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century:  he  was  reputed  to  be  a 
magician.  The  story  that  Brantome  tells  was  taken  from  the 
Opuscula  by  Charles  Bovelles,  fol.  XXXIV.  of  the  in-4°  edition  of 
1521.  The  famous  Raimond  Lulle  (generally  known  in  England  as 
Raimond  Lully),  philosopher  and  schoolman,  was  celebrated  through- 
out the  Middle  Ages  for  his  logic  and  his  commentary  on  Aristotle, 
and  above  all  for  his  art  of  Memory,  or  Ars  Lulliana.  He  was 
born  at  Palma,  the  capital  of  Majorca,  in  1235.  He  travelled  in 
various  countries,  and  died  (1315)  in  Africa  after  suffering  great 
hardships,  having  gone  there  as  a  missionary. 

P.  240:  Or  Charles  de  Bouvelles.  His  life  of  Raymond  Lulle  is  a 
quarto,  printed  at  Paris,  and  published  by  Ascencius.  It  is  dated 
3rd  of  the  Nones  of  December,  1511.  Several  other  works  by  the 
same  author  are  extant. 

P.  240:  Arnauld  de  Villeneuve,  a  famous  alchemist  of  the  end  of 
the  thirteenth  century;  he  died  in  a  shipwreck,  in  1313. 

P.  240:  Oldrade,  a  jurist,  was  born  at  Lodi  in  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury. His  Codex  de  falsa  moneta  is  not  known. 

[381] 


^ 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


P.  242:  Sisteron,  in  the  Department  of  the  B  asses- Alpes,  on  the 
Durance.  Seat  of  a  Bishopric  from  the  4th  Century  down  to  1770. 

P.  242:  Aimeric  de  Rochechouart  (1545-1582)  was  the  bishop  of 
Sisteron;  he  succeeded  his  uncle  Albin  de  Rochechouart.  As  to  the 
"very  great  lady,"  that  applies  to  one  of  a  dozen  princesses. 

) 

P.  244:  Pliny,  XXXIII.,  cap.  iv.  Brantdme  is  mistaken  about 
the  temple. 

P.  246:  Claude  Blosset,  lady  of  Torcy,  the  daughter  of  Jean 
Blosset  and  of  Anne  de  Cugnac.  She  married  Louis  de  Montberon 
(in  1553),  Baron  de  Fontaines  and  Chalandray,  first  gentleman  of 
the  king's  bed-chamber.  The  beautiful  Torcy,  as  she  was  called,  had 
been  presented  to  Queen  Eleonor  by  Mme.  de  Canaples,  the  enemy 
of  Mme.  d'Etampes. 

P.  246:  Hubert  Thomas,  Annales  de  vita  Friderici  II.  Palatini 
(Francfort,  1624),  gives  no  idea  of  this  exaggeration  of  Queen 
Eleonor's  bust,  who  was  promised  to  Frederick  Palatine. 

P.  248:     Suetonius,  Octccvius  Augustus,  cap.  Ixix. 

P.  249:  Henri  de  Lorraine,  Due  de  Guise,  nicknamed  le  Balafrt, 
born  1550.  Murdered  by  the  King's  (Henri  III.)  orders  at  Blois 
in  1588. 

P.  249:    Due  d'Anjou,  afterwards  Henri  III. 

P.  250:  The  personages  in  question  are  probably  Bussy  d'Amboise 
and  Marguerite  de  Valois. 

P.  252:  The  king  was  Henri  II.,  and  the  grand  widow  lady  the 
Duchess  de  Valentinois.  They  thought  it  was  due  to  a  charm. 

P.  254:  Pico  della  Mirandola,  Opera  omnia,  t.  II.,  liv.  III.,  chap, 
xxii.,  in  the  1517  edition. 

P.  254:  Pico  della  Mirandola,  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  the  bril- 
liant scholars  of  the  Renaissance,  and  so  famous  for  the  precocity  and 
versatility  of  his  talents,  was  born  1463.  After  completing  his 
studies  at  Bologna  and  elsewhere,  he  visited  Rome,  where  he 
publicly  exhibited  a  hundred  propositions  De  omni  re  gcribtii,  which 

[382] 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


he  undertook  to  defend  against  all  comers.  The  maturity  of  his 
powers  he  devoted  to  the  study  of  religion  and  the  Platonic  philos- 
ophy. He  died  1494,  on  the  day  of  Charles  VIII.'s  entry  into 
Florence. 

P.  265:  Ferdinando  Francesco  Avalos,  Marquis  de  Pescaire,  of  a 
well-known  Neapolitan  family,  began  his  career  as  a  soldier  in  1512 
at  the  battle  of  Ravenna.  Distinguished  himself  by  the  capture  of 
Milan  (1521)  and  numerous  other  brilliant  feats  of  arms.  Took 
an  important  part  in  the  battle  of  Pavia,  where  Francois  I.  of 
France  was  taken  prisoner.  Wounded  in  that  battle,  and  died  in 
the  same  year,  1625.  His  wife  was  the  celebrated  Vittoria  Colonna. 

P.  257:  Josephus,  The  Antiquities  of  the  Jews,  Bk.  XV.,  Chap, 
vii.  Herod  the  Great;  died  B.  C.  4.  He  put  to  death  his  wife 
Mariamne',  as  well  as  her  grandfather  and  his  own  sons  by  her. 

P.  258:  Shiraz,  a  town  of  Persia,  capital  of  the  Province  of  Pars, 
famous  for  its  roses,  wine  and  nightingales,  sung  by  the  Persian 
poets  Hafiz  and  Saadi. 

P.  258:     Plutarch,  Alexander,  Chap.  XXXIX. 

P.  268:  It  is  in  his  Observations  de  plusieurs  singularity  (Paris, 
1554)  that  Belon  reports  this  fact.  (Liv.  III.,  chap,  x.,  p.  179.) 

P.  261:  The  usual  form  is  Ortiagon.  The  woman  is  the  beautiful 
Queen  Chiomara.  (C/.  Livy,  XXXVIII.,  cap.  xxiv.,  and  Boccaccio, 
De  Claris  mulieribus,  LXXIV.)  Chiomara,  wife  of  Ortiagon,  King  of 
Galatia,  was  taken  prisoner  by  the  Romans  when  Cn.  Manlius  Vulso 
invaded  Galatia,  B.  C.  189.  The  story  is  told  by  Polybius  (XXII.,  21). 

P.  262:    Suetonius,  Ccesar,  LI  I. 
P.  263:    Livy,  XXX.,  cap.  xv. 

P.  263:  Plutarch,  Cato  the  Elder.  Brantdme  attributes  the  anec- 
dote to  Scipion. 

P.  265:  Charles  de  Lorraine,  Cardinal  de  Guise,  known  as  Car- 
dinal de  Lorraine,  died  in  1574.  He  played  an  important  role  at 
the  Council  of  Trente.  Brantome  refers  to  the  truce  of  Vaucelles 
between  Henri  II.  and  the  Emperor,  which  Cardinal  Caraffa  had  suc- 

[383] 


iff^ijfffljyswfgBfSBf^Brai??^^ 

NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


ceeded  in  breaking  in  1556.  This  passage  had  evidently  been  written 
before  1588,  the  year  of  the  death  of  another  Cardinal  de  Guise,  the 
brother  of  Balafr6. 

P.  265:  The  beautiful  Venitians  are  described  by  Vecellio  as 
wearing  exquisite  gowns  on  holidays.  (See  Vecellio,  Habiti  antichi, 
Venice,  1590.) 

P.  266:  This  passage  is  not  in  the  Dies  geniales  by  Alessandro, 
but  in  Herodotus,  II.,  chap.  ix. 

P.  267:  What  Brantdme  says  of  Flora  is  not  true.  The  woman 
in  question  was  not  called  Flora,  but  Acca  Taruntia. 

P.  269:  Pausanius,  Suetonius,  and  Manilius  have  not  written 
special  works  on  women.  Brantdme  is  no  doubt  referring  to  the 
anecdotes  that  are  found  in  their  works. 

P.  273:    This  princess  was  Catherine  de'Medeci. 

P.  275:  The  same  story  has  been  told  of  Mademoiselle,  cousin  ger- 
man  of  Louis  XIV.,  with  this  addition  that  she  was  in  the  habit  of 
giving  any  of  her  pages  who  were  tempted  by  her  charms  a  few 
louis  to  enable  them  to  satisfy  their  passion  elsewhere. 

P.  276:  Suetonius,  Vitellius,  cap.  ii.:  "Messalina  petit  ut  sibi  pedes 
praeberet  excalceandos."  BrantSme  prefers  to  quote  in  his  own 
manner. 

P.  276:    LVIIth  Tale. 

P.  276:  Undoubtedly  the  grand  prior  Francois  de  Lorraine,  who 
accompanied  Mary  Stuart  to  Scotland ;  however,  D' Aumale  and  Reme" 
d'Elbeuf  also  accompanied  her. 

P.  281:  Philip  II.,  of  Spain,  son  of  Charles  the  Fifth,  born  1527; 
died  1588.  The  husband  of  Queen  Mary  of  England. 

P.  282:  Beatrix  Pacheco  was  lady  of  honor  to  Eleonor  d'Autriche 
prior  to  1544  with  several  other  Spanish  ladies ;  she  became  Countess 
d'Entremont  through  her  marriage  with  S£bastien  d'Entremont.  Her 
daughter,  the  woman  in  question  here,  was  Jacqueline,  the  second  wife 

[384] 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


mm!&}i(®S!^m^ 


of  Admiral  de  Coligny,  against  whom  the  enemies  of  her  husband 
turned;  she  was  not,  however,  beyond  reproach. 

P.  284:  The  description  which  follows  was  textually  taken  by 
Brantome  from  account  printed  at  Lyons,  in  1549,  entitled:  "La 
magnificence  de  la  superbe  et  triomphante  entree  de  la  noble  et 
antique  cite  de  Lyon  faicte  au  tres-chrestien  Roy  de  France  Henry 
deuxiesme." 

P.  286:  Brazilian  wood,  known  before  the  discovery  of  America. 
Br6sil  is  a  common  noun  here. 

P.  287:    The  king's  visit  to  Lyons  took  place  September  18,  1548. 

P.  288:  La  volte  was  a  dance  that  had  come  from  Italy  in  which 
the  gentleman,  after  having  made  his  partner  turn  two  or  three  times, 
raised  her  from  the  floor  in  order  to  make  her  cut  a  caper  in  the  air. 
This  is  the  caper  of  which  Brantome  is  speaking. 

P.  288:  Paul  de  Labarthe,  lord  of  Thermes,  Field  Marshal  of 
France,  died  in  1562.  (Montluc,  Ruble  edition,  t.  II.,  p.  55.) 

P.  289:  Scio  (Chios)  was  the  only  island  in  the  Orient  where  the 
women  wore  short  dresses. 

P.  298:  Suetonius,  Caligula,  XXV.  "Caesonia  was  first  the  mis- 
tress and  afterwards  the  wife  of  the  Emperor  Caligula.  She  was 
neither  handsome  nor  young  when  Caligula  fell  in  love  with  her;  but 
she  was  a  woman  of  the  greatest  licentiousness  ...  At  the  time  he 
was  married  to  Lollia  Paulina,  whom,  however,  he  divorced  in  order 
to  marry  Caesonia,  who  was  with  child  by  him,  A.  D.  38.  ...  Caesonia 
contrived  to  preserve  the  attachment  of  her  imperial  husband  down 
to  the  end  of  his  life;  but  she  is  said  to  have  effected  this  by  love- 
potions,  which  she  gave  him  to  drink,  and  to  which  some  persons 
attributed  the  unsettled  state  of  Caligula's  mental  powers  during  the 
latter  years  of  his  life.  Caesonia  and  her  daughter  (Julia  Drusilla) 
were  put  to  death  on  the  same  day  that  Caligula  was  murdered, 
A.  D.  41." 


P.  299:    The  Emperor  Caracalla  (M.  Aurelius  Antoninus)  was  the 
son  of  the  Emperor  Septimus  Severus  and  was  born  at  Lyons,  at  the 

[385] 


rr*i;^r«viiy^ir/8tir/WMM^^  :.-»-•- .  -»•  •  ,/-»My*M  r/wr?4Yir/*\ir*ir^v,r 


!iw^<^!jffliaaji<8^t^m*^^ 


time  his  father  was  Governor  of  Gallia  Lugdunensis.  Caracalla 
(like  Caligula)  is  really  only  a  nickname,  derived  from  the  long 
Gaulish  cloak  which  he  adopted  and  made  fashionable.  Reigned 
from  Severus'  death  at  York  in  211  to  his  own  assassination  in  217. 
His  brother  Geta  was  at  first  associated  with  him  in  the  Empire. 
Him  he  murdered,  and  is  said  to  have  suffered  remorse  for  the  act 
to  the  end  of  his  life, — remorse  from  which  he  sought  distraction  in 
every  kind  of  extravagant  folly  and  reckless  cruelty. 

P.  299:    Spartianus,  Caracalla,  Chap.  x. 
P.  300:     This  son  was  Geta. 

P.  301:  Beatrix  was  the  daughter  of  Count  Guillaume  de  Tenda; 
to  her  second  husband,  Phillipe  Marie  Visconti,  she  brought  all  the 
wealth  of  her  first  husband,  Facino  Cane.  In  spite  of  her  ripe  years, 
Beatrix  was  suspected  of  adultery  with  Michel  Orombelli,  and  Phil- 
lipe Marie  had  them  both  killed.  As  a  matter  of  fact  this  was  a 
convenient  way  of  appropriating  Facino  Cane's  wealth. 

P.  301:    Collenuccio,  liv.  IV.,  anno  1194. 

P.  301:  Filippo  Maria  Visconti;  born  1391,  died  1447.  Last  Duke 
of  Milan  of  the  house  of  Visconti,  the  sovereignty  passing  at  his 
death  to  the  Sforzas. 

P.  301:  Facino  (Bonifacio)  Cane,  the  famous  condot.tiere  and  des- 
pot of  Alessandria,  was  born  of  a  noble  family  about  1360.  The  prin- 
cipality he  eventually  acquired  in  N.  Italy  embraced,  besides  Ales- 
sandria, Pavia,  Vercelli,  Tortona,  Varese,  and  all  the  shores  of  the 
Lago  Maggiore.  Died  1412. 

P.  301 :     Mother  of  Frederick  II. 

P.  301:  Pandolfo  Collenuccio,  famous  as  author,  historian  and 
juris-consult  towards  the  end  of  the  XlVth  century.  Born  at  Pesaro, 
where  he  spent  most  of  his  life,  and  where  he  was  executed  (1500) 
by  order  of  Giovanni  Sforza,  in  consequence  of  his  intrigues  with 
Caesar  Borgia,  who  was  anxious  to  acquire  the  sovereignty  of  that 
city. 

P.  302:    Daughter  of  Bernardin  de  Clermont,  Vicomte  de  Tallard. 

[386] 


tirtbftfv^i^^ 

NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 


^W4WWIJmVJI^|»^ 


P.  302:  Brantdme  undoubtedly  aims  here  at  Marguerite  de  Cler- 
mont. 

P.  303:    Jean  de  Bourdeille. 

P.  303:  Ren£e,  daughter  of  Louis  XII.,  married  to  the  Duke  of 
Ferraro.  She  was  ungainly  but  very  learned. 

P.  304:    Marguerite  d'Angouleme. 

P.  312:  Meung-sur-Loire,  dep.  Loiret,  on  right  bank  of  the  Loire, 
eleven  miles  below  Orleans. 

P.  312:  Eclaron,  dep.  Maute-Marne. 

P.  312:  Leonor,  Duke  de  Longueville. 

P.  312:  Francois  de  Lorraine,  Duke  de  Guise. 

P.  313:  Louis  I.,  Prince  de  Cond6. 

P.  313:  Captain  Averet,  died  at  Orleans  in  1562. 

P.  313:  Compare  was  the  name  King  Henri  II.  gave  the  Constable 
de  Montmorency. 

P.  316:  Octamus  is  translated  Octavie  by  Brant6me.  Cf.  Sueto- 
nius, Caligula,  XXXVI.,  and  Octavius  Augustus,  LXIX. 

P.  316:    Suetonius,  Nero,  XXXIV. 

P.  318:  Brantdme  undoubtedly  refers  to  Henri  III.  and  to  the 
Duke  d'Alen^on,  his  brother. 

P.  319:  Plutarch  names  this  woman  Aspasia  and  makes  her  a 
priestess  of  Diana.  Cf.  Artaxerxes-Mnemon,  Chap.  XXVI. 

P.  319:    Collenuccio,  liv.  V.,  p.  208. 

P.  319:  Artaxerxes  I.  (Longimanus),  King  of  Persia  for  forty 
years,  B.  C.  465  to  425 ;  he  succeeded  his  father  Xerxes,  having  put 
to  death  his  brother  Darius. 

[387] 


NOTES     AND     APPENDICES 

SMIMiMl^lfea^^tiMli^^^ 

P.  320:     Wife  of  Francois  d'Orldans. 

P.  320:  Diane  died  at  the  age  of  66,  April  22,  1566;  she  was  born 
in  1499. 

P.  320:  Jacqueline  de  Rohan-Gi£,  married  to  Francois  d'Or!6ans, 
Marquis  de  Rothelin. 

P.  321:  Francois  Robertet,  widow  of  Jean  Babou,  whose  second 
husband  was  Field  Marshal  d'Aumont. 

P.  321:  Catherine  de  Clermont,  wife  of  Guy  de  Mareuil,  grand- 
mother of  the  Duke  du  Montpensier,  Fran£ois,  surnamed  the  Prince- 
Dauphin. 

P.  321:  Gabrielle  de  Mareuil,  married  to  Nicolas  d'Anjou,  Mar- 
quis de  M£zieres. 

P.  321:    Jacqueline  or  Jacquette  de  Montberon. 

P.  321:  Francoise  Robertet,  widow  of  Jean  Babon  de  la  Bour- 
daisiere. 

P.  322:     Paule  Viguier,  baronne  de  Fontenille. 
P.  322:     Francoise  de  Longwi. 

P.  322:  The  praise  of  this  Toulousean  beauty  is  to  be  found  in 
the  very  rare  opuscule  by  G.  Minot,  De  la  beaute,  1587. 

P.  323:  Anne  d'Este.  She  was  not  exempt  from  the  faults  of  a 
corrupt  court. 

P.  323:    This  journey  occurred  in  1574. 

•i 

P.  323:    Louis  XII. 

P.  324:    Jean  d'O,  seigneur  de  Maillebois. 

P.  324:  It  is  not  Francois  Gonzagne,  but  Guillaume  Gonzagne, 
his  brother  and  successor  to  the  duchy  of  Mantoue,  born  in  1538, 
died  in  1587. 

[388] 


NOTES    AND     APPENDICES 


P.  325:     He  returns  here  to  the  Duchess  de  Guise. 

P.  326:  At  the  wedding  of  Charles  Emmanuel,  married  to  Cath- 
erine, daughter  of  Philip  II.  of  Spain. 

P.  827:  Marie  d'Aragon,  wedded  to  Alphonse  d'Avalos,  Marquis 
del  Guasto  or  Vasto. 

P.  327:  Henri  II.,  son  of  Francis  I.,  and  husband  of  Catherine  de 
Medici.  Born  1518.  Came  to  throne  in  1547;  accidentally  killed  in 
a  tourney  by  Montgommeri  1559. 

P.  327:  Paul  IV.  (of  the  illustrious  Neapolitan  family  of  Caraffa) 
was  raised  to  the  chair  of  St.  Peter  in  1558 ;  died  1559. 

P.  327:  This  viceroy  was  Don  Perafan,  Duke  d'Alcala,  who  en- 
tered Naples  June  12,  1559. 

P.  328:    Claude  de  Lestrange? 

P.  331:  Brant&me's  memory  fails  him.  Of  the  two  daughters  of 
the  Marquess,  Beatrix,  the  first  married  Count  de  Potenza;  the  other, 
Prince  de  Sulmone. 

P.  336:  His  son  was  Francois  Ferdinand,  Viceroy  of  Sicily,  died 
in  1571. 

P.  337:    Soliman  II. 


EXD  OF  VOLUME  OWE. 


University  of  California 

SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

405  Hilgard  Avenue,  Los  Angeles,  CA  90024-1388 

Return  this  material  to  the  library 

from  which  it  was  borrowed. 


RS7TT 

01 


Book  Slii 


UCLA-College  Library 

DC112A1B7vE1922v.1 


L  005  663  902  4 


College 
Library 

DC 

112 

AlB7vE 

1922 

v.l 


•^   *«C^I 

BK 


