Graphics  ji 

1 

Magazine     ^^^^^^H 

1 

Newspaper          ■ 

^^H 

Mazapaper             Tiiblnid 

H 

REPORT     1        JOURNAL 

^^B 

Magtab 

^H 

CflrmoG 

H 

Brochure 
l=I.YI=l? 

H 



Digitized  by  the  Internet  Arcliive 
in  2012 


littp://archive.org/details/masteringgraphicOOwliit 


Mastering 
Graphics 


NEWSLETTER 


Magazine 


Newspaper 


(tMagapaper 


REPORT 


Magtab 


l=I.YI=R 


Tabloid 


JOURNAL 


CffTRLOG 


Brochure 


Design! 

dnd 

production 

made 

easy 

Jan  V  White 

R.  R.  Bowker  Company,  New  York  and  London,  1983 


Published  by  R.  R.  Bowker 

a  division  of  Reed  Publishing  (USA)  Inc. 

Copyright  ©  1983  by  |an  V.  White 

All  rights  reserved 

Printed  and  bound  in  the  United  States  of  America 

Except  as  permitted  under  the  Copyright  Act  of  1976, 
no  part  of  this  publication  may  be  reproduced  or  transmitted 
in  any  form  or  by  any  means,  or  stored  in  any  information 
storage  and  retrieval  system,  without  prior  written  permission  of 
R.  R.  Bowker,  245  West  17  Street,  New  York,  NY  10011. 


Library  of  Congress  Cataloging  in  Publication  Data 

White,  Ian  v.,  1928- 
Mastermg  graphics. 

Includes  index. 

1.  Graphic  arts.     2.   Printing,  Practical. 

i.   Newsletters.     4.   House  organs.     5.   PamphI 

Design.     I.   Title 

Z253.W47       1983         686.2  83-60 

ISBN  0-83.52-1704-3 


CONTENTS 


Introduction    x 


Which  will  you  choose:  newsletter,  magazine,  magapaper,  magtab,  or  tabloid?    XIV 

Newsletters    2 

Magazines    3 

Magapapers,  magtabs,  and  tabloids    8 


2 


Make  the  publication's  name  its  hallmark    14 


The  difference  between  logo,  nameplate,  flag,  and  masthead  14 

Where  to  put  your  name  on  the  page    15 

How  to  make  the  name  impossible  to  miss  1  5 

Your  name/your  self:  why  you  ought  to  personalize  it    20 

How  to  make  the  name  look  different    21 

Enriching  the  name's  effectiveness  with  color   24 

How  to  make  your  own  special  logo   25 

How  to  achieve  the  personalized  look  once  the  name  is  in  type   27 


3 


How  to  make  the  most  of  typewriter  "typography"    28 


Typewriter  type,  strike-on  type,  cold  type:  what  they  are    29 

How  long  should  typewritten  lines  be?   30 

Should  you  use  ragged-right  or  justified  typewriter  typing?    31 

How  to  reduce  the  scale  of  typewriter  type  31 

Enlarging  the  paste-up  to  accommodate  reduced  typewriting   34 

The  problem  of  creating  emphasis  in  typewritten  copy  34 

How  to  make  headlines  using  your  typewriter    35 

How  to  make  sideheads  on  your  typewriter  37 

How  to  make  lists  on  your  typewriter  38 

Big  initials  added  to  typewritten  copy   40 

How  to  handle  standing  art  with  typewriters    41 


Using  type  effectively  42 


Tone-of-voice  typography  42 

What  face  to  use?    44 

The  confusion  about  names  of  typefaces  44 

Preparing  copy  for  setting  in  type   45 

Specifying  type:  how  to  instruct  the  typesetter  47 

Type  measurement    49 

Copyfitting:  how  much  space  will  the  words  take  in  type?   52 

Copyfitting  large-size  type    55 

Proofs    56 

Body  copy  or  text  faces   57 

Sans  serif  vs.  serif  faces  for  body  copy    58 

Line  spacing,  leading,  interlinear  spacing    60 

How  long  should  the  lines  be?    61 

Should  type  be  set  justified  or  ragged?    62 

Display  type   65 

Headlines    66 

How  big  should  headlines  be?    67 

What  is  the  best  place  on  the  page  to  put  your  headline?    67 

A  few  technical  terms  about  headlines    68 

Legibility  of  headlines:  all  cap,  up-and-down  style,  or  downstyle   69 

Decks  and  blurbs    70 

Captions,  legends,  cutlines   70 

Catch  lines  or  boldface  lead-ins    72 

Bylines    73 


Tips  to  help  you  take  better  photos  for  your  publication     74 


Move  in  as  close  as  you  can    74 

Use  lenses  that  will  move  in  close  for  you   74 

Having  everything  in  focus  is  dull   74 

Put  the  center  of  interest  elsewhere  than  plumb  in  the  middle   75 

Make  something  dominant  in  every  picture   75 

Compose  your  shots  with  an  awareness  of  the  lines  of  force  76 

Allow  moving  objects  plenty  of  space   76 

Use  the  rectangle  format  to  best  advantage   77 

Enliven  your  picture  with  foreground  interest    77 

Pick  a  background  that  explains  the  character  of  the  personality    78 

Don't  let  the  background  become  a  nasty  surprise   78 

Watch  out  for  booby  traps    79 

Check  the  edges  of  the  picture  in  your  viewfinder  beforeyou  shoot   79 

Shoot  people  as  the  individuals  they  are   79 

Bunch  people  into  tight  groups  80 

Figure  out  fresh  angles  for  cliche  situations  80 

Sunlight  is  great,  except  that  it  makes  strong  shadows   81 

Flashbulbs  create  shadow  monsters  on  walls   81 

Don't  blind  your  subjects  by  shooting  flash  too  close  81 

If  you  want  animated  reactions  from  people,  be  funny  81 


People  pictures  don't  have  to  be  boring    82 

The  individual  mug  shot  and  how  to  make  it  more  interesting 
Five  commonsense  principles  for  using  people  pictures    87 
Make  the  best  of  those  unavoidable  catalog  arrangements    88 
Cluster  individual  shots  into  close  groupings   90 


7 


Tips  to  make  more  effective  use  of  pictures    92 


Option  1 :  throw  the  ugly  ones  out   92 

Option  2:  make  the  best  of  what  you've  got  92 

The  pretty  picture:  beguiling,  but  off  the  point   93 

The  awful  picture:  depressing,  but  informative  and  essential  93 

Have  the  courage  needed  to  use  that  unexpected  image  93 

How  bleeds  create  an  illusion  of  size  94 

Interrupt  the  margin  by  bleeding  pictures   95 

How  the  reader  interprets  meaning  through  size  96 

Why  it  is  wise  to  crop  the  picture  until  it  hurts   98 

Crop  to  make  pictures  work  together  better  99 

Crop  for  continuity  of  the  horizon  in  neighboring  pictures  101 

Edit  pictures  so  one  image  becomes  dominant    103 

Help  pictorial  scenes  by  cunning  page  arrangements  103 

Cluster  small,  spotty  pictures  to  give  them  greater  visibility  1 04 

Link  images  to  create  a  cumulative  impact    104 

How  to  expose  the  sense  of  the  story  in  pictures  1 05 

Publish  pictures  of  pictures   105 

Bring  attention  to  the  important  part  of  the  image   1 07 

Do  things  with  the  edges  of  the  pictures   109 

Manipulate  the  image  for  symbolic  purposes  1 1 2 

Use  partial  silhouetting  to  emphasize  action   1 1  5 

Combine  words  with  pictures  so  1  +  1  =  3    117 


8 


inescapable  technicalities  about  pictures    1 20 


Must  all  originals  be  black-and-white  prints?    120 

How  can  you  tell  that  the  picture  is  the  right  way  'round?  1  22 

Why  and  how  do  you  crop  pictures?    123 

How  do  you  scale  pictures  to  the  size  you  want  them  to  be?   1 24 

How  do  you  inform  the  cameraman  about  what  you  want?    1 27 

What  will  the  picture  look  like  when  it  is  reduced?    1 28 

What  is  a  halftone?    129 

Who  makes  halftones?   1 29 

What  are  photomechanical  variations?    1  30 

Whatisalinecut?  131 

What  is  a  line  conversion?   132 

What  are  screens  and  shading  tints?   132 


vn 


10 


11 


llustrations  and  their  substitutes:  where  to  find  them,  how  to  use  them    1 34 

Custom-made  art  vs.  existing  art    135 

Sources  for  photography:  expensive,  cheap,  free   1  36 

Old  engravings  in  the  public  domain   1  36 

Clip  art:  its  uses  and  dangers    138 

Transfer  art  and  the  easy  u^ay  to  become  an  "illustrator"  1  38 

Handwritten  notes:  art  at  the  end  of  your  arm  1  38 

Rubber  stamps  and  the  danger  of  being  funny  1 39 

Rules  and  how  to  use  them  to  advantage   1 40 

Boxes:  what's  in  them  for  you?   141 

Nonpictorial  odds  and  ends  as  illustrations   144 


Making  mechanicals:  a  crash  course  for  the  uninitiated  and  disinclined     146 

Taking  the  fear  out  of  mechanicals  and  where  to  get  advice    147 

The  tools  and  materials  you  cannot  work  without    147 

The  need  to  keep  clean    150 

Working  in  miniature    1  50 

Making  a  rough  dummy   151 

Practical  tips  on  making  mechanicals    1  5 1 


How  to  use  color  effectively  (and  stay  within  budget)    1 54 

Does  the  purpose  for  which  color  is  used  affect  the  choice  of  color?    1  55 

What  is  the  difference  between  process  color  and  second  colors?    1  55 

What  colors  should  you  use?    157 

How  much  color  should  you  use?    157 

Flat  color  or  spot  color   157 

The  difference  between  pictures  with  color  tint  and  duotones   157 

Running  type  in  color  158 

How  color  separations  are  made  158 

Proofs  to  check  what  you'll  be  getting    1  59 

Progressive  proofs    160 

How  to  correct  color  proofs  160 

How  to  get  more  color  for  less  investment    1 61 


12 


What  you  need  to  know  about  paper    162 

How  big  is  a  piece  of  paper?   162 

Basis  weight    163 

Bulking  and  thickness    164 

Show-through  and  opacity  164 

Brightness   164 

Shininess    165 

Finishes    165 

Colored  stock  165 

Newsprint   166 

Envelopes    167 


13 


What  you  absolutely  must  know  about  printing,  folding,  binding,  and  finishing    1 68 

Stenciling  it  yourself  168 

Mimeographing    169 

Photocopying  and  xerography   169 

Letterpress    1  70 

Offset   170 

Gravure    171 

Can  you  tell  the  difference  between  offset,  letterpress,  and  gravure?  1 71 

What  happens  after  printing?   172 

Paper  has  grain  that  affects  its  proper  utilization   1  72 

How  various  ways  of  folding  the  sheet  can  be  useful   1  72 

Binding    174 

Diecutting   175 

Perforating   175 

Laminating   176 

Mailing  and  distribution    176 


Index    178 


INTRODUCTION 


The  title  for  this  book  could  have  been  Graphics  Without  Fear,  except  that 
it  was  decided  that  something  a  bit  more  positive  was  needed — hence 
Mastering.  The  notion  of  graphics  without  fear  remains  operative,  however, 
because  graphic  design  is  not  a  nest  of  weird  secrets  revealed  only  to  some 
wild-eyed  practitioners  of  an  occult  art.  Instead  it  is  a  working  tool  for 
working  editors  and  their  good  right  hands — their  graphic  designers,  if  they 
are  lucky  enough  to  have  them. 

When  graphic  design  is  considered  as  an  end  in  itself  and  is  done  for  its  own  sake, 
then  it  is  terrifying  indeed,  for  its  validity  depends  entirely  on  one's 
subjective  "liking,"  and  "liking"  is  a  quality  that  no  one  can  define  and  few 
agree  about.  All  anyone  can  do  is  to  feel  insecure  about  it  and  defend  one's 
arbitrary  position.  Furthermore,  such  an  approach  to  design  is  nothing  but  a 
quest  for  superficial  beauty:  making  a  publication  look  good,  and  pleasing  to 
the  eye.  It  is,  of  course,  possible  to  develop  such  cosmetic  gloss  on  any 
printed  product,  but  that  approach  was  nailed  down  forever  by  Oscar  Wilde 
when  he  referred  to  the  dead  fish  in  the  moonlight:  "It  glistens,  but  it  stinks." 


When  graphic  design  is  regarded  as  a  means  to  an  end,  then  it  is  no  longer 
self-centered  art-for-art's-sake,  but  rather  an  outward-looking 
technique-for-communication's-sake — and  that  is  a  very  different  kettle  of 
fish  that  smells  delicious.  As  such,  it  becomes  accessible  to  anyone:  those 
who  originate  the  product  as  well  as  those  who  receive  it.  It  is  this  aspect  of 
design  that  Mastering  Graphics  deals  with.  Because  the  book  is  based  on 
common  sense,  you  will  find  that  without  fear  is  not  some  bombastic  claim 
but  a  statement  of  simple  fact. 

Graphic  design  is  a  functional  response  to  specific,  realistic  problems 
that  can  be  simple  and  quantifiable  (such  as  how  to  shoehorn  too  many 
words  into  too  small  a  space)  or  esoteric  and  hard  to  define  (such  as  how  to 
give  your  publication  the  character  appropriate  to  its  purpose  and 
readership).  Yet  at  neither  end  of  the  spectrum  is  graphic  design  an  arcane 
art.  At  the  simple  end,  all  you  need  do  is  count  up  your  total  number  of 
characters  and  do  some  elementary  math.  At  the  esoteric  end,  finding  your 
ideal  solution  may  take  a  little  longer,  but  it  is  no  more  difficult:  all  you  need 
do  is  to  break  that  apparent  enormity  into  its  component  parts  and  then 
proceed  to  make  one  small  decision  for  each.  In  both  cases — the  simple  and 
the  complex — you  make  your  judgments  based  on  facts  and  options  that  are 
accessible  to  all.  The  result  may  look  like  "art,"  but  you  will  know  perfectly 
well  that  your  decisions  had  little  to  do  with  your  artistic  talent  or  training 
(or  lack  thereof).  Your  decisions  had  everything  to  do  with  sound  editorial 
thinking:  the  capacity  to  analyze  and  make  judgments  based  on  logic  and 
common  sense  for  the  sake  of  the  product  and  the  story. 


Graphic  design  in  publications  exists  on  two  levels  that  are  interconnected,  yet 
quite  separate:  (1)  the  character  of  the  product  as  a  whole,  and  (2)  the 
successful  communication  of  the  ideas  inherent  in  its  parts.  The  first  aspect 
has  to  do  with  what  the  object  looks  like  and  how  the  stories  leap  off  the 
page  into  the  reader's  mind;  or,  how  you  recognize  the  product  from 
page  to  page  and  issue  to  issue  and  how  memorable  or  exciting  your 
readers  perceive  the  content  to  be.  The  character  of  the  product  as  a  whole 
is  created  from  the  choices  you  and/or  your  designer  make  that  fuse  into  a 
mix  that  is  particular  to  your  product.  It  consists  of  many  factors  such  as: 
the  weight,  color,  texture,  and  snap  of  the  stock  you  use;  the  page  size;  the 
ink  color;  the  proportions  of  the  margins  around  the  page;  the  column 
structure  in  the  live  area  of  your  page;  the  texture,  color,  contrast,  and 
patterning  of  the  type  you  use  for  the  body  copy,  display,  and  other  areas  of 
typography;  the  style  of  the  standing  art  used  for  logos  and  other  graphic 
elements;  the  format  of  the  many  elements  recurring  from  issue  to  issue 
such  as  covers,  contents,  editorial,  and  so  forth;  the  style  of  illustrations;  the 
handling  of  photos . . .  and  many  more.  Such  choices  are  made  from  a  nearly 
infinite  variety  of  possibilities  and  are  influenced  by  wholly  practical 
considerations  such  as  what  your  suppliers  can  offer  in  the  way  of  services 
and  materials,  press  size,  number  of  copies  to  be  printed,  method  of 
distribution,  as  well  as  the  overriding  question  of  budgets . . .  and  so  forth. 
They  are  also  influenced  by  criteria  that  are  much  harder  though  no  less 
necessary  to  define,  such  as  the  average  age  of  your  readers,  the  degree 
of  their  visual/verbal  sophistication,  the  purpose  of  the  publication  . . . 
and  so  on. 

When  you  know  what  your  problems  are  and  base  your  decisions  on 
the  right  criteria,  you  can  construct  a  solution  that  is  fitting  and  elegant.  It 
must  be  based  on  a  dispassionate  analysis  of  your  needs,  purposes,  and 
limitations  that  define  the  graphic  materials  you  will  be  using — if  you  accept 
as  a  definition  of  the  word  "materials"  anything  that  is  visible  on  the  printed 
page.  The  resulting  mix  of  those  materials  will  be  what  makes  you  "you"  .  .  . 
your  format.  You  will  work  with  them  until  you  decide  to  change  them. 

What  you  decide  to  do  with  graphic  materials  and  how  you  apply  your 
ingenuity  to  telling  individual  stories  within  the  restrictions  imposed  by  these 
materials  will  be  the  challenge  of  that  other  aspect  of  graphic  design — the 
communication  of  ideas  inherent  in  the  parts  of  the  publication.  First  you 
must  attract  the  potential  reader's  attention  by  whatever  means  you  can 
devise  to  make  the  story  appear  irresistible.  Then  you  must  hold  it  by  making 
your  story  fascinating;  you  must  get  the  information  across  quickly  by 
efficient  presentation,  and  ensure  its  being  memorable  by  emphasizing  that 
which  is  significant.  You  have  to  make  the  value  of  the  product  apparent  to 
your  reader  so  that  it  will  be  anticipated  and  welcomed  as  a  trusted  friend, 

XI 


by  making  it  both  recognizable  as  well  as  packed  with  useful  content. 

But  that  is  precisely  why  you  have  to  know  what  you  are  doing  and  why 
you  are  doing  it  the  way  you  are  doing  it.  Flying  by  the  seat  of  your  pants 
can  lead  to  losing  your  shirt.  That  is  why  this  book  has  been  assembled  as  a 
compendium  of  the  fundamental  practical  knowledge  you  need  in  order  to 
approach  your  task  fearlessly.  It  carefully  balances  the  essential  technicalities  of 
graphic  design  and  production  with  suggestions  on  how  to  use  them 
effectively.  Since  it  is  as  dangerous  to  know  too  much  as  too  little  about  any 
one  aspect  of  the  process,  the  material  here  has  been  carefully  chosen  to  give 
an  overview  for  handling  your  publication-making  responsibly. 

The  book  is  the  result  of  the  30  years  I  have  been  involved  in  publishing, 
the  last  20  as  consultant  and  lecturer.  The  truism  that  a  teacher  is  taught  by 
his  pupils  is  absolutely  unassailable:  they  asked  the  questions  and  needed 
the  answers.  I  have  fielded  those  questions  often  enough  to  have  learned 
what  the  most  common  fears  and  insecurities  are,  and  which  gaps  in 
knowledge  cause  them.  It  is  my  hope  that  the  answers  to  the  most  frequent 
questions  can  be  found  here.  If  they  are  not,  perhaps  I  may  do  my  readers  an 
even  greater  service  by  telling  you  not  only  where  to  go  to  find  them,  but — 
more  importantly — that  it  is  perfectly  all  right  to  ask!  Nobody  has  all  the 
answers,  and  making  publications  is  an  extremely  complex  procedure.  It  is 
no  wonder  that  so  many  people  have  technical  problems  as  well  as 
more  hard-to-solve,  editorial  ones.  To  help  at  least  in  the  area  defined  as 
graphics,  this  book  has  been  divided  into  a  set  of  logical  areas.  Refer  to  the 
chapter  titles  to  determine  the  particular  area  of  interest  and  then  scan  the 
headlines  that  have  been  placed  on  the  page  to  help  you  close  in  on  a 
narrower  topic.  This  book  intentionally  has  no  glossary  in  the  traditional 
sense,  because  people  seldom  use  it.  Instead,  technical  terms  and  concepts 
are  highlighted  in  boldface  in  the  text  so  you  can  find  them  quickly — and 
discover  their  meaning  in  the  context  in  which  they  occur.  The  index  is,  of 
course,  a  cross-referencing  guide. 

One  last  thought:  the  tasks  we  do  not  like  tend  to  be  put  off  until  the 
last  possible  moment — when  we  cannot  avoid  them  any  more.  Too  many 
word-oriented  people  fall  into  this  trap  when  they  face  the  task  of  turning 
those  words  and  thoughts  into  marks  on  paper  that  communicate  to  readers. 
Because  they  are  unsure  of  themselves,  because  they  do  not  know  what  they 
are  doing,  and  because  they  are  afraid,  they  postpone  it  until  the  task 
becomes  a  last-minute  overnight  nightmare.  You  cannot  avoid  doing  the 
layout  forever;  isn't  it  wiser  to  get  on  with  it  in  good  time,  so  you  can 
develop  a  solution  that  will  s/ng?  When  you  discover  how  logical  and  easy  it 
really  is,  who  knows?  You  may  even  become  as  fascinated  by  the  way  your 
product  appears  as  by  its  content  and  writing.  At  that  point  you  will  become 
a  fully  rounded  communicator. 


Now  with  respect  to  this  book:  it  has  some  480  line  illustrations  if  you 
count  typographic  examples  as  "illustrations."  Please  don't  check  up  on  the 
number:  I  made  some  arbitrary  decisions  as  to  what  constitutes  a  separate 
illustration  and  what  doesn't,  in  trying  to  come  up  with  the  total.  Besides, 
who  cares?  Suffice  it  to  say  that  there  are  a  lot  of  them.  There  are  also  some 
80  halftones.  And  reams  of  words.  Assembling  all  this  stuff  would  have  been 
a  daunting  undertaking,  had  1  not  been  fortunate  to  have  the  help  of  several 
skilled  and  indispensable  professionals:  Mary  L.  Young  transcribed  the  tape 
into  legible  typescript  (which  must  have  been  some  task,  given  my 
propensity  for  disjointed  complexity  and  seemingly  endless  verbosity). 
Betty  Sun  and  Iris  Topel  edited  the  manuscript  with  insight  and  diplomacy: 
they  got  rid  of  the  obfuscations  and  circumlocutions  together  with  most  of 
my  funnies.  They  clarified  obscurities  and  challenged  some  of  my  rasher 
assertions.  They  did  it  all  with  extraordinary  patience,  for  this  is  a  rather 
unusual  book  in  terms  of  bookmaking:  the  author  didn't  just  write  and 
illustrate  it,  but  he  also  oversaw  the  typesetting  and  then  assembled  the 
mechanicals  himself.  So  the  proper  control  of  consistency,  which  is  a  normal 
part  of  an  editor's  responsibilities,  gently  evaporated.  I  acknowledge  their 
self-control  with  such  frustrations.  You  see,  I  enjoy  playing  with  this 
marvelously  malleable  material  that  typography  and  illustration  and  space 
are  to  such  an  extent,  that  I  make  decisions  about  detailing  on  one  page  that 
may  be  quite  different  from  a  similar  situation  on  another  page.  So  when 
you  notice  such  inconsistencies,  blame  the  author:  he  was  having  fun. 
Blame  him  also  for  any  mistakes — the  editors  did  their  best  under  unusually 
trying  circumstances. 

The  typesetting  was  done  by  J&J  Typesetters  in  Norwalk,  CT.  They  are  a 
joy  to  work  with.  The  stills  from  old  movies  are  used  by  kind  permission  of 
the  Still  File  Collection.  Other  photos  don't  deserve  crediting:  they  are 
supposed  to  be  bad,  and  I  have  little  difficulty  taking  such  pictures  myself. 
My  thanks  to  Carl  Moreus  of  Norwalk,  CT,  for  the  use  of  his  photomechanical 
conversions  on  pages  130-131.  My  thanks,  also,  to  Helen  Einhorn  for 
overseeing  the  excellent  production  of  this  book. 

Without  my  Clarissa,  I  would  not  have  had  the  courage  to  tackle  this 
monster.  I  must  also  thank  my  four  sons:  Charles,  with  his  Caroline, 
Alexander,  Gregory,  and  Christopher.  Each  in  his  own  way  is  cause  for  paternal 
pride.  I  know  they  want  me  to  dedicate  this  book  to  the  memory  of  KW. 


Westport,  CT 
May  1983 


Which 
will  you 
choose: 

newsletter 

magazine 

magapaper, 

magtab 

or 

tabloid? 


Let's  assume  that  you  are  faced  with  putting  out  a  publication.  You  are  then 
very  likely  to  have  a  stack  of  publications  sitting  on  your  desk:  big  ones, 
little  ones,  fat  and  colorful  ones,  thin  and  floppy  ones,  newspaperlike  ones, 
and  flamboyant  annual-reportlike  ones — and  the  prospect  of  making  your 
own  is  terrifying.  How  can  you  possibly  do  something  like  that? 

Don't  be  overwhelmed  by  the  quantity  or  the  variety.  Instead,  go 
through  the  mound  again  and  weed  out  everything  that  doesn't  feel  right. 
Keep  those  pieces  that  seem  to  have  the  right  character  for  your  needs  and 
your  audience  and  that  are,  therefore,  to  your  liking.  Elsewhere  in  this  book, 
the  verb  "to  like"  is  seldom  used  because  subjective  liking,  which  is  based 
on  an  emotional  response,  must  be  supplanted  by  logic,  strategic  planning, 
and  rational  decisions  when  you  put  your  publication  together.  You  must 
know  what  you're  doing  and  why  you're  doing  it  that  way.  But,  for  now,  your 
intuitive  feeling  of  rightness,  expressed  in  terms  of  "liking,"  is  a  valid  and 
valuable  tool  to  use. 

When  you've  narrowed  the  field  you  may  well  decide  that  a  modest, 
single-page,  typewritten  newsletter  is  what  you  should  be  doing — fine! 
You  can  forget  all  about  magazine  formats  and  newspaper  makeup!  Or  you 
may  have  gravitated  toward  a  more  newspaperlike  product:  a  tabloid  with 
all  its  hard-hitting,  newsy  flavor — fine!  You've  taken  the  first  major  step  in 
your  publication-making  process. 

Your  ultimate  choice,  however,  will  need  to  take  three  factors  into 
account.  It  is  hard  to  make  intelligent  generalizations  about  these  factors 
because  their  specifics  are  so  variable,  but  you  should  know  about  them  and 
figure  them  into  your  equation  before  you  commit  yourself  to  a  final  choice 
of  format. 

1.  The  availability  of  suppliers  in  your  vicinity  who  have  the  right 
machinery  to  produce  the  kind  of  product  you'd  like. 

2.  Some  idea  of  the  way  your  product  will  be  distributed,  for  that  may 
well  affect  both  costs  and  the  physical  limitations  within  which  you'll  have 
to  work. 

3.  The  availability  of  enough  money  to  create  the  very  best  version  of 
the  product  you'd  like  to  have.  Clearly,  some  are  cheaper  to  make  than 
others.  It  is  far  better  to  produce  a  first-rate  version  of  a  cheaper  kind  than 
a  shoddy  version  of  a  more  expensive  kind.  Only  common  sense  and 


discussions  with  your  suppliers  can  give  you  the  information  you  need  to 
base  your  decisions  on. 

Those  are  three  practical  considerations  that  must  be  made.  To  make 
your  life  even  more  complicated,  there  are  three  more  fundamentals  you 
must  also  absorb  at  this  early  stage  of  your  publishing  career,  if  you  are  to 
succeed.  They  are  not  practical,  but  without  them  you  cannot  muster  the 
intellectual  freedom  you  need  to  do  the  job  right. 

1.  Forget  everything  you  ever  learned  about  the  way  reports  are 


supposed  to  be  done.  Anyone  who  has  ever  submitted  a  paper  to  the 
English  teacher  in  high  school  had  to  put  his  or  her  name  in  the  top 
right-hand  corner,  align  the  date  below  it,  center  the  title  in  all  capitals  on 
the  page  with  a  line  under  it,  place  the  bibliography  at  the  end  and  footnotes 
on  the  page  where  the  reference  occurs,  and  so  on — you  know  what  I  mean. 
Such  patterning  is  one  of  the  useful  disciplines  of  school  and  perfectly  valid 
for  what  it  is.  It  is  even  useful  for  doing  college  papers.  But  publishing  is  a 
broader  world  where  such  rules  or  guidelines  don't  exist.  Clear  your  mind 
of  those  cobwebs. 

2.  Don't  think  that  there  are  any  correct  ways  of  doing  anything.  There 
aren't.  There  are  traditions.  There  are  rules  of  thumb  whose  application  may 
or  may  not  be  appropriate.  There  are  comfortable  ways  of  doing  things  that 
have  been  developed  over  the  years  and  that  are  effective  in  one  product 
but  disastrous  in  another.  There  are  endless  slogans  about  never  setting 
type  in  all  capitals,  about  italics  in  bulk  being  hard  to  read,  about  trapped 
space  being  anathema,  about  big  headlines  having  to  go  at  the  top  of  the 
page,  and  so  on  ad  nauseam.  Slogans  are  slogans  and  embody  only  a  sliver 
of  truth.  There  are  also  lots  of  books  that  tell  you  what  you  must  always  or 
never  do  if  you  hope  to  do  it  right.  Nonsense.  There  is  only  one  right  way: 
Think  the  problem  through,  decide  on  the  editorial  point  you're  trying  to 
make,  then  express  it  in  the  appropriate  physical  format,  be  it  for  a  single 
story  or  an  entire  publication.  If  the  form  grows  out  of  the  content,  you'll 
have  succeeded  in  finding  the  optimal  way  of  communicating  your 
meaning — which  is  the  purpose  of  this  whole  business  to  start  with. 

3.  See  beyond  the  beguiling  pictures  when  you  examine  other  people's 


publications.  Look  beyond  or  behind  them  to  notice  the  structure  of  the 
pages,  the  rhythms  used  to  assemble  the  whole  piece,  the  patterning  and 
repetitive  elements  used,  the  length  of  the  stories,  the  way  headlines  are 
used,  the  variety  of  subjects  covered.  It  is  one  of  the  hardest  things  to  learn 
to  do  because  even  bad  pictures  are  so  fascinating.  And  if  the  samples  of 
publications  you  have  gathered  are  exciting  (which  they  probably  are, 
otherwise  you  wouldn't  have  kept  them),  chances  are  the  writing  and 
subject  matter  are  equally  alluring.  It  is  hard  to  resist  getting  involved  in 
these  publications,  and  their  very  capacity  to  draw  in  even  those  disinterested 
in  the  subject  is  the  mark  of  their  excellence.  Resist  it  if  you  want  to  become 
a  dispassionate,  professional  analyzer. 

But  for  now,  shelve  all  the  worries  about  suppliers  and  finances  as  well 
as  about  not  knowing  how  to  begin,  and  concentrate  on  the  pile  of  stuff  on 


your  desk.  To  help  you  analyze  the  various  characteristics  of  formats,  here  is 
a  short  overview  of  the  three  basic  types.  Obviously  there  are  hybrids  as 
well  as  unique  publications,  which  attract  much  attention  by  virtue  of  their 
uniqueness.  Doubtless  there  are  several  of  such  types  in  your  pile.  There's 
no  reason  why  you  should  not  depart  from  the  standard  formats.  Be  aware, 
however,  that  what  looks  simple  can  turn  out  to  be  quite  tricky  to  achieve; 
and  every  time  you  do  something  special,  it  is  likely  to  cost  you  both 
aggravation  and  money.  So  here  are  the  fundamentals,  if  only  for  comparison. 


Newsletters 


What  a  multitude  of  sins  this  term  encompasses!  It  is  so  often  misused  that 
it  is  almost  meaningless:  it  means  whatever  you  want  it  to  mean.  It  describes 
a  publication  of  limited  circulation  that  is  essentially  informative  in  nature 
and  that  is  published  often  or  seldom,  in  a  format  that  varies  from  the 
simplest  to  the  most  complex.  For  our  purposes,  let's  return  to  the  original 
definition:  a  newsletter  is  a  simple  medium  that  is  easy  to  produce  and 
probably  one  of  the  most  effective  to  ever  have  been  invented,  because  it  is 
forthright  and  unassuming. 

A  true  newsletter  is  simple,  informal,  relaxed.  Its  effectiveness  lies  in  the 
illusion  it  creates  of  being  a  person-to-person  letter.  It  should  be  quick  to 
read  and  full  of  news  (although  what  constitutes  news  is  arguable,  if  it  is 
news  to  the  recipient,  then  news  it  is).  It  should  be  written  in  a  series  of 
short  paragraphs  that  summarize  events  and  bring  out  their  significance  to 
the  recipient.  Longer  items  are,  of  course,  perfectly  acceptable,  but  the 
longer  they  are,  the  less  "newsy"  the  product  appears.  To  be  a  true 
newsletter,  it  needs  to  look  like  news  and  be  edited  down  to  the  essentials: 
the  who,  what,  where,  how,  and  when — and  why  the  reader  should  need  to 
know  about  it. 

It  ought  also  to  look  informal  and  inexpensive,  unpretentious,  not 
sloppy  or  messy,  but  relaxed  and  unassuming,  in  order  to  create  that 
atmosphere  of  one-to-one  personal  communication.  When  typewritten,  its 
informal  character  and  "inside-scoop"  feeling  can  best  be  communicated. 

If  it  is  typewritten,  then  it  ought  not  to  have  typeset  headings.  Otherwise 
the  image  that  readers  typically  have  in  mind  of  the  editor  batting  out  the 
latest  hot  news  on  the  typewriter  (or  word  processor)  will  be  destroyed  if 
visual  elements  obviously  not  generated  on  a  typewriter  are  added  to  the 
mix.  By  all  means  have  a  logo  set  in  type  and  run  it  off  in  color  to  create  a 
letterhead  on  which  the  typescript  can  then  be  imposed.  That  reinforces  the 
personal  quality  of  the  newsletter.  But  inserting  headlines  in  type  is 
something  else. 

Because  it  is  a  "letter,"  its  page  size  is  probably  the  standard  8y2"  x  11". 
The  simplest  newsletter  is,  of  course,  a  single  sheet.  Two  sheets  stapled 
together  in  the  top-left  corner  are  the  next  step.  From  there  you  can  have 
several  other  variations  of  physical  format — but  eight  pages  is  about  the 
maximum  for  a  plain  newsletter. 


r=1  r^ 


The  next  step  up  the  scale  is  when  the  ambitious  editor  becomes  design 
conscious  and  yearns  for  something  more  formalized,  more  expensive 
looking,  more  valuable,  more  "finished." 

So  the  page  is  split  into  two  columns,  and  the  copy  is  retyped  several 
times  so  that  columns  are  made  neat  on  both  left-  and  right-hand  edges 
(justified)  instead  of  unaligned,  which  is  the  way  the  machine  naturally 
produces  lines  of  type.  An  executive  typewriter  may  even  be  used  in  order 
to  create  an  aura  of  sophistication.  That  soon  gives  way  to  rejecting  the 
typewriter's  directness  and  large  scale,  in  favor  of  cold-type  typesetting,  the 
rationalization  being  that  you  can  get  more  on  the  page.  Soon,  instead  of  a 
straightforward  newsletter,  you  have  the  poor  cousin  of  a  magazine — set 
three  columns  per  page,  with  headlines  in  contrasting  sans-serif  type,  and — 
the  ultimate  development — pictures.  At  this  point,  longer  stories  that  are 
no  longer  news-oriented  but  rather  analytical  or  descriptive  in  nature 
shoulder  their  way  into  the  product,  and  you  have  a  mini-magazine  that 
doesn't  quite  come  off.  And  it  doesn't  quite  come  off  because  the  techniques 
of  one  medium  have  been  applied  (wrongly)  to  another  medium.  Using  slick 
stock  and  fancy  tricks  to  "catch  the  reader"  is  inappropriate  to  true 
newsletters,  whose  entire  character  is  properly  predicated  on  the  assumption 
that  their  readers  are  predisposed  to  reading  because  they  are  vitally 
interested  and  want  to  know  the  latest  news.  Magazines  have  to  "sell"  their 
stories  by  bringing  out  their  content  through  complex  headline/deck/text 
relationships  as  well  as  graphic/photographic/layout  manipulations. 
Newsletters  don't  need  such  trickery  because  their  readers  are  already  sold 
on  the  importance  of  the  content.  Therefore  such  flamboyance  is  misapplied 
and  turns  the  newsletter  into  something  else. 


Magazines 


Although  there  are  small  ones  made  to  fit  the  pocket  (6"  x  8")  and 
bigger  ones  (9"  wide  by  up  to  12"  high),  the  majority  of  magazines  are 
becoming  standardized  to  8y4"  x  10%"  or  so.  These  dimensions  are  based 
on  the  smallest  page  size  one  can  use  to  accommodate  the  standard 
7"  X  10"  ad  and  allow  a  workable  margin  all  around.  For  economic  reasons, 
paper  and  press  sizes  are  slowly  adjusting  to  this  standard.  It  is  also  a  size 
that  allows  for  exciting  handling  of  visual  elements  as  well  as  pedestrian 
handling  of  textual  matter,  as  a  visit  to  your  local  magazine  counter  will 
quickly  attest. 

The  essence  of  handling  a  magazine  lies  in  two  factors  that  are  peculiar 
to  the  medium. 

1.  It  is  small  enough  for  each  spread— two  facing  pages  seen  together — 
to  be  visible  as  a  total  unit.  It  makes  one  overall  impression  per  spread. 

2.  It  is  made  up  of  many  pages  and  therefore  becomes  an  object  in 
three  dimensions  with  many  impressions  following  each  other  as  the  reader 
turns  the  pages. 

These  essential  characteristics  can  offer  tremendous  advantages:  you 
can  create  an  artifact  that  has  such  personality  and  unity  that  the  reader  will 
find  it  valuable,  useful,  and  important.  How  do  you  achieve  that?  By  making 


the  most  of  the  sequence  of  impressions  the  reader  develops  as  he  or  she 
turns  the  pages  and  perceives  the  pages  in  progression.  You  establish 
sequence  or  progression  by  repetition,  by  horizontal  alignment  from  page  to 
page  and  spread  to  spread,  by  the  use  of  minimal  variety  in  typography  for 
maximal  effects,  by  consistency  in  the  placement  of  like  elements  on  the 
page,  and  by  standardization  of  everything  that  can  be  standardized.  Far 
from  making  the  object  dull,  such  techniques  make  it  strong,  while  at  the 
same  time  giving  it  impact  and  recognizability. 

These  are  qualities  that  cannot  be  built  into  a  newsletter,  because  eight 
pages  aren't  enough  to  work  with.  They  are  also  qualities  that  a  newspaper 
cannot  achieve,  because  its  page  size  is  too  large. 

The  magazine  is  made  up  of  groups  of  pages  printed  on  a  flat  sheet  of 
paper  (form)  that  is  later  folded  into  a  signature  that  is  then  assembled  with 
other  signatures  to  form  the  final  product.  Each  signature  consists  of 
multiples  of  4  pages;  16  pages  is  the  most  economical,  although  8-page  and 
12-page  signatures  are  possible.  Large  magazines  are  printed  in  32-page 
signatures.  Black-and-white  pages  are  printed  separately  from  color  pages, 
because  single-color  presses  are  cheaper  to  run  than  four-color  presses; 
often  the  paper  stock  varies.  Thus  a  magazine  often  consists  of  several 
black-and-white  signatures  interlaced  with  or  surrounded  (wrapped)  by  color 
signatures.    You  need  to  understand  the  fundamentals  of  the  physical 
makeup  of  the  object,  in  order  to  make  the  most  of  it  within  its  own 
limitations. 

The  way  people  hold  the  product  is  another  factor  to  take  into  account. 
Holding  it  by  the  spine  the  way  we  do  when  we  first  pick  it  up  to  examine 
it,  we  flip  the  pages  fast;  we  only  see  the  outside  half  of  the  pages  because 
the  inside  half  is  hidden.  That  outside  half  of  the  pages,  then,  is  where  we 
ought  to  put  our  attention-grabbing  material.  Later,  when  the  product  is 
studied  for  the  second  time,  after  the  potential  reader  has  decided,  "Yes,  it 
looks  interesting,"  that  inside  half  is  laid  bare  because  the  object  is  then 
held  differently:  on  the  lap,  on  the  desk,  folded  backward. 

The  page  of  a  typical  magazine  is  usually  broken  into  two  or  three  columns. 


All  dimensions  shown  are  in  picas. 


Some  magazines  also  use  a  four-column  format. 


9.5      9.5      9.5       9.5 


These  are  by  no  means  the  only  patterns  although  they  are  most  often  found, 
for  they  fit  the  sizes  of  advertisements.  Publications  that  do  not  have  to  face 
the  problem  of  accommodating  ads  need  not  restrict  their  thinking.  They 
should  develop  other  patterns,  such  as  these:  Narrower  columns  can  be 
concentrated  toward  the  center  of  the  spread,  allowing  a  wide  outer  margin; 
that  precious  high-visibility  area  can  then  be  penetrated  by  headlines  or 
small  pictures  or  can  have  pictures  extend  into  it. 


Or  how  about  taking  two  columns,  centering  them  down  the  middle  of  the 
page,  and  giving  them  ample  outer  margins  to  create  a  quiet,  elegant, 
dignified  feeling? 


Or  consider  taking  three  columns  per  page  but  making  them  narrower  than 
the  maximum.  You  then  have  the  option  of  placing  them  in  two  positions  on 
the  page:  working  outward  from  the  gutter,  yielding  a  wide  outer  margin; 
or  working  inward  from  the  outer  edge,  yielding  a  wide  gutter  margin. 


There  are,  clearly,  lots  of  different  ways  of  organizing  the  space  at  your 
disposal.  The  advantage  of  an  unusual  arrangement  is  that  it  makes  the 
product  look  different.  Not  only  does  the  type  feel  different,  but  the  pictures 
do  too.  That  is  because  in  the  usual  two-  or  three-column  makeup,  there  is 
an  expected  sameness  to  the  pages,  no  matter  how  hard  you  may  try  to  be 
original  or  even  to  obtain  striking  photos.  The  skeleton  to  which  you  are 
attaching  your  material  forces  you  to  size  it  according  to  certain  proportions. 
If  the  skeleton  is  ordinary,  so  will  your  proportions  be.  If  it  is  unusual,  then 
the  result  will  look  unusual.* 

If  your  publication  is  likely  to  have  a  great  many  photos  in  it,  then  it 
may  well  be  a  good  idea  to  work  out  a  column  format  that  encourages  a 
variety  of  sizes  suitable  to  the  variety  of  pictorial  matter  you'll  want  to 
accommodate.  If  your  page  can  be  so  arranged  that  it  remains  within  a 
standard,  recognizable  margin — so  the  pages  hang  together  clearly — yet 
allows  the  live  area  to  be  broken  into  two,  three,  four,  and  even  five 
columns,  you  have  a  scheme  that  will  be  the  basis  of  a  product  whose 
interesting  expressiveness  will  be  the  result  of  the  flexibility  of  the  system. 


12.3         12.3         12.3 


7       7        7       7       7 


*See  Jan  V.  White,  18  Ready-to-Use  Grids  (Arlington,  VA:  National  Composition 
Association,  1982). 


The  combinations  such  a  scheme  allows — for  example,  coupling  various 
column  widths  together  to  leave  empty  areas  of  different  proportions — can 
be  both  gratifying  and  enriching.  Gratifying,  because  it  lets  the  material  be 
made  to  the  size  the  editor  deems  appropriate  for  it;  enriching,  because  the 
journalistic  thrust,  joined  with  the  visual  effect,  creates  excitement  in  the 
product.  It  says  something  and  says  it  clearly,  at  first  glance. 

By  the  way,  breaking  up  the  page  into  component  columns  is  sometimes 
thought  to  be  a  Big  Solution  to  All  Our  Problems  when  it  is  referred  to  as  a 
grid.  A  grid  is  nothing  but  a  geometrical  pattern  that  divides  the  area  of  the 
page  into  vertical  shapes  (columns)  and  also  into  horizontal  shapes.  The 
columns  have  already  been  discussed.  It  is  the  additional  horizontal  ones 
that  make  the  true  grid.  They  can  be  coordinated  with  type  lines — 
individually  or  in  multiples;  or  they  can  break  the  page's  height  arbitrarily 
into  equal-sized  pieces.  If  the  publication  is  likely  to  use  a  lot  of  photographs, 
it  is  good  planning  to  shape  those  pieces  so  they  will  fit  the  proportion  of 
the  photos:  4  to  5  proportion  for  4"  x  5"  photos,  2  to  3  proportion  for  35mm 
photos.  Clearly,  any  arrangement  that  helps  to  define  the  future  page  design 
is  feasible.  It  can  be  as  simple  as  a  few  lines  that  define  the  edges  of  things 
("text  up  to  this  point  and  down  to  here  but  no  further .  .  .  headlines  in  this 
area,  decks  in  there  .  .  .")  or  as  complex  as  imagination  demands. 

The  grid  is  said  to  embody  some  kind  of  magic  that  makes  it  easy  to 
produce  the  publication  and  makes  it  an  effective  vehicle.  Alas,  it  does  no 
such  thing.  It  is  a  framework  that  may  or  may  not  fit  the  material,  and  insofar 
as  it  is  better  to  have  a  framework  than  not  to  have  one,  it  helps.  But  it  is  no 
substitute  for  thinking,  journalism,  writing  good  stories,  inventing  clever 
graphics,  or  getting  fine  photography.  All  it  provides  is  a  set  of  slots  into 
which  to  insert  all  that  material. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  the  frame  on  which  the  publication's  visual 
character  is  hung;  it  helps  give  identity;  it  creates  consistency  from  page  to 
page;  it  speeds  work  habits;  and,  of  course,  it  is  the  forerunner  of  the 
coming  technology:  when  page  makeup  will  be  done  on  video  terminals,  the 
grid  will  be  universally  used. 

In  terms  of  style,  there  are  four  other  characteristics  that  have  become 
essential  to  true  magazine  makeup. 

1.  Space  is  used  actively  to  create  the  product's  patterns.  A  newspaper 
page  is  expected  to  be  fully  packed  from  side  to  side,  top  to  bottom.  Not  so 
a  magazine  page  (although  there  are  some,  such  as  the  newsmagazines,  that 
do  fill  out  the  live-matter  rectangle  as  a  matter  of  course).  Such  an  informal 
approach,  whereby  white  space  is  utilized  actively  to  focus  attention  onto  the 
matter  the  editor  deems  important,  is  something  that  magazine  makeup 
encourages.  Unfortunately,  this  valuable  capacity  is  often  unused,  because 
the  boss  objects  to  "wasted  paper,"  and  because  many  editors,  trained  as 
they  are  in  newspaper  journalism,  cannot  purge  themselves  of  the  rigidities 
imposed  on  them  by  newspaper  traditions.  Interestingly  enough,  as  papers 
evolve,  many  magazine  techniques  are  invading  the  supplements — and  that 
includes  the  utilization  of  space  as  an  active  element  in  presentation,  instead 
of  as  just  the  passive  white  background  on  which  the  words  and  pictures 
get  printed. 


2.  Newsletters  plunge  right  into  their  contents  on  the  first  page. 
Newspapers  run  their  most  important  story  atop  page  1,  often  above  the 
flag.  But  magazines  are  packaged  like  cornflakes:  in  a  box — between  covers. 
The  picture  and  cover  lines  become    shills  and  are  made  irresistibly 
enticing  in  order  to  pull  the  reader  into  the  product.  Obviously,  covers 
also  exist  to  create  recognition  for  the  product  from  issue  to  issue,  so  they 
have  to  express  the  publication's  personality  and  be  consistent  with  its 
policy.  The  picture  that  is  run  on  the  cover  usually  has  something  to  do  with 
the  major  story.  Artwork  or  typographic  covers  are  also  sometimes  used,  and 
they  can  be  highly  successful  as  sales  tools  if  they  are  well  executed.  It  is 
much  easier  and  safer  to  use  a  good  photo,  though. 

3.  Magazine  pages  have  their  center  of  importance  at  the  top;  that's 
where  the  eye  goes  to  find  the  important  matter.  The  foot  of  the  page  is 
much  less  important.  It  follows,  then,  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  make  the 
bottom  of  the  page  always  precisely  squared  off  and  neat.  True,  filling 
columns  down  to  the  bottom  margin  makes  it  look  tidier,  but  so  few  people 
become  aware  of  that  area  of  the  page  that  you  can  get  away  with 
inaccuracies  without  worry.  Certainly  it  is  foolish  to  insert  space  between 
paragraphs  in  order  to  fill  out  the  columns,  for  that  destroys  the  flow  of  the 
typography — and  to  what  end?  Perhaps  some  theoretical  principle  of  which 
few  are  aware.  Certainly  a  newspaper  page  made  up  in  the  traditional,  full 
arrangement  has  to  have  a  neat  outline,  and  there  the  lack  of  alignment 
across  the  foot  of  the  page  looks  noticeably  messy.  But  newspapers  are  a 
different  case  altogether,  and  it  is  unwise  to  transfer  the  necessities  of  one 
medium  to  another. 

It  is  much  wiser  to  make  a  virtue  of  necessity — for  example,  by  making 
the  foot  of  the  page  deliberately  staggered  or  scalloped,  as  long  as  the 
inequalities  are  sufficiently  large  to  make  it  quite  evident  that  this  is  what 
you  intended  to  do  and  that  it  is  not  a  mistake. 

4.  In  general,  the  most  successful  presentation  is  one  whose  spreads  are 
devoted  entirely  to  one  story.  There  the  medium's  proportions  are  used 
optimally  and  concentrate  the  reader's  attention  most  effectively.  The  page 
size  evidently  coordinates  comfortably  with  longer  stories.  A  newspaper  page 
could  not  be  as  successful  because  it  is  far  too  large;  the  scale  would  be 
wrong.  By  the  same  token,  magazines  that  crowd  a  lot  of  small  items  onto  a 
page  newspaper  style  can  never  succeed  to  the  degree  that  newspapers  can, 
simply  because  of  the  smallness  of  the  page  they  are  working  with. 


Magapapers,  magtabs,  and  tabloids 


Here  we  are  dealing  with  a  much  larger  object.  The  normal  dimension  is 
11"  wide  and  anywhere  from  14"  to  17"  high.  Usually  it  is  run  on  newsprint 
(to  get  the  newspaper  feel  as  well  as  to  make  it  less  expensive  to  produce), 
although  the  format  can  be  used  on  heavy,  white,  fine  stock  too.  The  tabloid 
is  the  basic  format.  What  makes  the  tabloid  into  a  magtab  or  magapaper  is 
that  it  has  one  more  fold  and,  because  of  that  fold,  a  smaller  cover.  That 
sounds  complicated,  so  here  it  is  in  diagrammatic  form. 


The  back  page  of  the  tabloid  becomes  the  cover  for  the  folded  piece;  the 
upper  part  is  the  front  cover,  the  lou/er  part  the  back  cover.  The  reader  sees 
three  sequential  elements  upon  receipt  of  the  publication:  first,  the  small 
front  cover;  second,  the  back  cover;  third,  opening  it  all  up,  the  full 
tabloid-size  first  page. 

The  word  magtab  comes  from  magazine  (when  folded)  and  tabloid 
(when  opened  up).  (Nobody  calls  it  a  tabzine,  thank  goodness.)  Magapaper, 
similarly,  is  magazine  and  newspaper. 

Inside,  they  are  all  basically  the  same.  Assembled  newspaper  style  in 
rigid  columns,  they  fill  out  every  square  inch  of  available  space;  or  assembled 
in  magazine  style,  they  have  greater  freedom  of  placement  and  sizing,  and 
often  weave  ample  white  space  into  startling  graphic  arrangements.  Clearly 
the  contents  should  determine  the  choice  of  presentation  style:  news  stories 
in  a  news  section  can  and  should  be  presented  in  a  style  natural  to  them;  on 
the  other  hand,  long,  analytical  stories  that  are  not  news-oriented  deserve  a 
different  handling.  There  is  no  reason  why  there  cannot  be  a  variety  of 
handling  within  the  same  issue;  such  variety  helps  to  enrich  the  product 
visually,  and  it  can  help  the  reader  realize  the  variety  of  matter  packed  in 
the  Issue.  This  kind  of  variety  (in  form  as  in  content)  grows  out  of  the  inner 
needs  of  the  material.  It  is  an  organic,  natural  development,  and  as  such  it 
must  fit  the  stories — and  the  vehicle — much  more  believably  than  the  sort 
of  extraneous  variety  that  one  finds  injected  into  a  product  for  its  own  sake: 
fashionable  headline  type;  peculiar  text  block  treatments;  fussy  details  that 
no  one  notices  except  the  people  who  put  the  product  out,  such  as 
differences  in  treatment  of  subheads  in  copy;  and  so  forth. 

Magazine-style  layouts  work  best  when  a  dominant  element  becomes 
noticeable  at  first  glance.  It  is  usually  a  large  photo,  but  it  can  be  anything 
else  appropriate  to  the  story:  a  large  headline,  an  important  chart  or  map. 
What  deserves  prominence  for  editorial  reasons  is  given  that  visibility  in 
order  to  create  immediate  communication. 

Newspaper-style  layouts  imply  putting  several  comparatively  short  but 
unrelated  items  on  the  same  page.  Since  the  newspaper  page — full  size  or 
tabloid  size — is  much  larger  than  a  magazine  page,  it  is  seldom  seen  as  a 
totality.  The  two-page  spread  of  a  newspaper  is  practically  never  seen  that 
way:  it  cannot  be  done  without  standing  back  too  far.  Instead,  the  page  is 
examined  by  the  reader  in  a  series  of  jumps.  Therefore  newspaper  design 
needs  to  be  contemplated  from  a  very  different  point  of  view.  Its 
composition  is  much  more  complex.  Unfortunately,  because  it  is  organized 
in  columns,  the  usual  approach  is  to  weave  the  material  through  from 


column  to  column  so  that  the  stories  meld  into  each  other;  only  by  reading 
and  concentration  can  we  determine  where  one  ends  and  the  next  one  begins. 


y)lil^lli;l»\MUiUiiA^MyHIJmMU- 


(MtMMUjXM^  WIMJifJ^  <iMA"U«MHMU.vU 


It  would  be  wiser  to  think  of  each  story  as  a  self-contained  rectangle  or 
building  block  of  which  the  page  is  built.  That  way  the  clarity  with  which  the 
stories  are  divided  from  each  other  is  greater:  at  first  glance  the  reader  can 
determine  the  lengths  of  the  stories,  where  they  begin  and  end,  what 
belongs  with  what,  which  pictures  go  with  what  text — and  which  article  they 
ought  to  get  involved  in  reading. 

Another  fundamental  difference  between  magazine-style  makeup  and 
newspaper-style  makeup  is  the  approach  to  the  utilization  of  pictures.  In  a 
newspaper,  the  story  is  accompanied  by  pictures  that  show  what  the  subject 
looked  like,  or  that  prove  the  veracity  of  the  report.  Seldom  does  the  story 
depend  on  the  pictures,  in  fact,  the  essence  of  a  newspaper  news  story  is 
straight  verbal  reportage,  and  the  story  could  happily  stand  on  its  own 
unadorned  feet;  any  pictures  are  just  extra  added  attractions.  They're  just 
raisins  tossed  in  the  cake  to  make  it  less  stodgy. 

In  magazines  (at  least  in  those  that  make  the  most  of  their  potential 
rather  than  those  that  are  assembled  like  miniature  newspaper  pages,  as  is 
too  often  the  case)  the  story  grows  out  of  a  blend  of  the  pictorial  and  the 
verbal.  The  two  are  inextricably  intertwined  in  meaning:  the  words  cannot 
exist  without  the  visuals,  and  the  visuals  would  make  no  sense  without  the 
accompanying  words.  This  is  a  more  sophisticated  communication  technique 
and  much  more  difficult  to  produce  than  the  comparatively  simple-minded 
newspaper  story.  It  makes  the  difference,  however,  between  a  product 
whose  contents  are  glossed  over  and  fast  forgotten  (unless  the  subject  Is 
crucially  important)  and  a  product  that  creates  such  an  impact  on  the 
viewer-reader  that  its  message  is  imprinted  on  the  consciousness  because  of 
its  vivid  power. 

The  standard  tabloid  makeup  is  based  on  a  56-pica  live-matter  area. 
The  height  varies  with  the  page  size,  of  course.  The  56  picas  allow  margins  of 
5  picas  or  thereabouts,  but  in  its  own  arithmetic  it  is  a  very  flexible 
measurement,  much  as  41  picas  and  39  picas  are  the  key  dimensions  on 
magazine-size  pages.  The  page  can  be  broken  into: 


10.5 

10.5 

10.5 

10.5 

10.5 

3  columns  per  page 

The  overall  scale  is  a  bit  large, 
pictures  tend  to  become  oversized, 
and  text  lines  are  a  trifle  long  for 
easy  reading,  unless  you  use  a  large 
type  size.  People  pictures  need  to 
be  set  into  the  text  or  arranged 
in  clusters. 


4  columns  per  page 

This  yields  an  excellent  copy  width 
for  a  reasonable  type  size  and  better 
variety  of  picture  sizes;  doubling 
up  two  mug  shots  per  column 
accommodates  that  perennial 
problem  neatly. 


5  columns  per  page 

The  column  width  is  a  bit  narrow, 
resulting  in  too  many  word  breaks. 
The  use  of  a  condensed  typeface  can 
overcome  bad  setting.  A  great 
variety  of  picture  sizes  is  possible. 


Mixing  column  widths  on  the  same  page  is  an  excellent  way  to  create 
variety  in  look  and  scale  as  well  as  in  emphasis.  Furthermore,  a  change  in 
pattern  also  helps  to  segment  the  large  page  into  its  component  parts  at  first 
glance.  Such  segmentation,  however,  depends  on  horizontal  building-block 
makeup:  instead  of  intertwining  stories  from  column  to  column,  each  story 
takes  up  a  clear  rectangle  of  space  on  the  page.  The  vertical  edges  are,  of 
course,  defined  by  the  columns  themselves.  The  top  and  bottom  edges  are 
defined  by  alignment  of  the  type  (which  has  to  be  precise,  or  it  doesn't 
work)  and  by  the  headline  that  is  placed  across  the  top  of  each  story.  The 
space  between  such  rectangles  acts  as  a  separating  moat,  if  its  edges  are 
precise  and  straight  and  therefore  appear  deliberate.  You  can  always  add 
horizontal  cut-off  rules,  if  you  fee!  the  need  for  them.  But  a  combination  of 
change  of  column  widths  and  neat  horizontal  alignment  of  type  lines  makes 
them  unnecessary. 


13 

13 

13 

13 

18 

18 

18 

Odd-width  columns  are  also  perfectly  feasible,  and  they  embody  the 
most  useful  possibilities  if  the  width  is  custom-tailored  to  a  specific  sort  of 
material.  Many  tabloids  are  faced  with  running  numerous  short  items, 
endless  mug  shots,  large  official  pronouncements,  lists  of  anniversaries, 
winners  of  awards,  and  so  forth.  Fitting  that  kind  of  material  into  the  normal 
column  widths  often  squeezes  the  matter  too  tight,  or  worse,  inflates  it 
undeservedly.  A  specially  sized  column  might  just  do  the  trick.  Here  are  four 
examples.  Anything  is  possible,  if  the  material  and  typography  are  made 
to  fit  it. 


11 

14 

14 

14 

Headlines  and  capsules  can  be  run 
in  the  narrow  column  at  left. 


Policy  statements  from  the  CEO  can 
be  set  in  large  type  in  an  extra-wide 
column. 


16 

5 

16 

16 

15 

15 

15 

Anniversary  celebrants'  pictures  and 
names  fit  in  the  narrow  column. 


Mug  shots  line  up  on  the  outside  of 
the  page. 


Horizontal  modules  are  an  aspect  of  grids  that  are  much  under  discussion 
nowadays  (see  page  7).  Many  attempts  have  lately  been  made  to  organize 
the  page  into  bands  running  across  the  page  from  left  to  right,  the  same  way 
that  columns  run  top  to  bottom.  Theoretically,  such  a  modular  system  is 
worthwhile  because  it  can  simplify  the  process  of  makeup  (by  predetermining 
sizing  of  pictures)  and  copyfitting  (by  organizing  the  page  into  multiples  of 
lines  of  type).  Such  coordination  appears  to  be  helpful  because  it  shows  you 
where  to  put  things  and  how  big  they  ought  to  be.  In  practice,  unfortunately. 


things  never  seem  to  work  out  so  neatly:  the  copy  is  invariably  too  long  or 
too  short,  the  photos  refuse  to  crop  right,  and  after  struggling  for  a  u'hile  you 
tend  to  give  up  on  the  grid's  restrictions.  Unfortunately,  you  either  have  a 
grid  or  you  don't;  there's  no  compromise.  If  you  depart  from  the  grid's 
rigidities,  you  aren't  left  v^^ith  much. 

There  is  one  horizontal  modular  element,  however,  that  appears  to 
make  good  sense:  to  have  a  band  of  space,  about  2"  deep  or  so,  running 
across  the  tops  of  all  the  pages.  You  can  leave  it  empty  and  thus  lighten  the 
heavy  effect  that  a  tabloid  page  creates,  but  you'll  be  accused  of  wasting 
space.  Or  you  can  use  it  as  an  area  in  which  to  insert  short,  amusing  bits  and 
pieces — those  usually  used  as  fillers  that  get  such  high  readership.  People 
love  to  read  items  that  are  short  enough  not  to  demand  effort;  they 
postpone  longer  stories  until  they  are  ready  for  them.  A  frieze  across  the  top 
can  be  a  useful  repository  for  such  odds  and  ends,  and  can  help  cajole  the 
readers  into  reading  the  big  stories  by  pulling  their  attention  onto  the  page 
with  small  ones. 

Sidebars  are  substories  related  to  the  story  they  appear  with,  but  of 
lesser  importance.  They  are,  in  fact,  boxes.  Their  graphic  expression  can  vary 
from  the  hackneyed,  ruled,  outlined  box  or  a  tint  of  black  ink  over  the  whole 
area  to  a  much  more  imaginative  and  witty  presentation  that  may  help  the 
flavor  of  the  subject  with  graphic  expression.  Two  factors  need  to  be 
understood  about  them. 

1 .  It  is  necessary  to  set  text  narrower  than  the  regular  column  width, 
because  you  have  to  leave  room  for  the  graphic  surrounding  that  encloses 
it.  Such  measurements  need  to  be  coordinated  properly  to  the  column 
structure.  Parallel  handling  of  headlines  is  also  needed:  there  has  to  be  a 
relationship  between  the  headline  type  and  the  miniaturized  version  that 
is  used  in  the  sidebar. 

2.  Because  sidebars  are  peculiar  elements  inserted  into  the  column 
structure  and  appear  different  from  their  surroundings,  they  are  disturbing 
elements.  One  can  even  think  of  them  as  illustrations — nonpictorial,  to  be 
sure,  but  pattern-breakers  nonetheless.  Anything  that  breaks  a  pattern 
attracts  our  attention.  So,  to  get  some  mileage  from  this,  it  might  be  a  good 
idea  to  use  a  typeface  of  contrasting  size,  color,  and  texture,  so  that  the 
sidebars  really  are  different. 

If  the  basic  makeup  pattern  follows  the  horizontal  layer  or  building-block 
approach,  then  sidebars  that  are  handled  as  though  they  were  pictures  can 
help  enrich  the  product  visually  at  very  little  cost. 


Make  the 

publication 

name 

its 

hallmark 


Your  name  is  your  trademark.  It  is  the  major  symbol  by  which  you  are 
recognized,  and  it  must  become  a  familiar  friend  to  the  recipient  of  your 
publication  so  that  every  issue  is  newly  welcomed.  It  ought  to  be  as 
individual  and  special  to  you  as  possible  without  becoming  exaggerated 
or  illegible.  This  problem  of  character  and  personalization  is  the  most 
difficult  to  tackle,  since  it  reflects  so  much  subjective  interpretation.  What 
looks  technical  to  one  person  is  seen  to  be  cold  and  dull  by  another; 
what's  just  contemporary  design  to  someone  may  well  be  the  epitome  of 
aggressiveness  to  someone  else;  what's  decorative  and  amusing  to  one  may 
be  seen  as  bad  taste  by  another.  That's  why  more  intramural  battles  are 
waged  about  logos  than  anything  else.  That's  why,  in  spite  of  the  temptation 
to  do  it  first,  it  is  wisest  to  leave  the  logo  until  last,  when  you  are  working  on 
a  new  format  or  a  new  product.  Let  the  logo  grow  naturally  out  of  the  spirit 
and  atmosphere  of  the  entire  piece.  If  you  have  the  discipline  to  work  out 
the  background  first,  you  will  have  solved  so  many  basic  questions  that  the 
logo  will  evolve  organically  from  the  decisions  already  reached.  If  you  do 
the  logo  first,  it  may  well  become  an  albatross  around  your  neck. 


The  difference  between  logo,  nameplatejiag,  and  masthead 

Logo  is  short  for  logotype.  Logos  in  Greek  means  word.  In  the  days  when 
each  letter  was  cast  separately  on  a  piece  of  metal  and  words  had  to  be 
assembled  letter  by  letter  into  lines,  commonly  used  short  words  were  made 
into  units  to  save  the  compositor's  time.  Such  ready-made  words  were  called 
logotypes.  The  name  was  then  transferred  to  any  words  that  were  specially 
prepared  and  repeated  in  that  peculiar  form,  such  as  company  or  trade 
names.  (As  a  company  name  or  trademark  a  logo  is  also  often  called  an 
"adcut.")  This  usage  was  then,  inevitably,  applied  to  the  name  of  the 
publication,  although,  strictly  speaking,  this  is  incorrect.  The  correct  name 
for  a  publication's  title  is  nameplate,  or  you  can  call  it  a  flag,  or  a  banner. 
The  kind  of  publication  you  have  determines  the  correct  nomenclature, 
although  such  pedantic  correctness,  like  beauty,  is  in  the  eye  of  the 
beholder.  Logo  is  commonly  used  for  magazines,  nameplate  for  newsletters, 
while  banner  or  flag  is  reserved  for  newspapers  and  tabloids  (though 
nameplate  will  also  be  understood  there).  All  this  does  not  matter  very 
much,  but  you  might  as  well  know  the  proper  terminology. 

One  caveat:  Do  not  call  the  name  of  the  publication  the  masthead  {mast 
for  short)  because  that  term  is  used  for  the  list  of  individuals  responsible  for 
the  publication,  the  date  and  volume  number,  publishing  information,  where 
to  write  for  change  of  address,  various  pieces  of  legal  information,  and  all 


the  rest  of  that  small  print  that  nobody  ever  reads  except  to  check  his  or  her 
name's  correct  spelling.  Often  appended  to  masthead  material,  by  the  way, 
is  information  required  by  the  Post  Office  to  qualify  the  publication  for  special 
postage  classification,  which  must  appear  somewhere  within  the  first  five 
pages  following  the  cover.  This  legal  material  is  also  called  the  indicia. 


Where  to  put  your  name  on  the  page 


8 

(0 


^ 


«.,,...-■                                   Aj 

^^                                 1 

Am 

^^mm 

The  normal  or  expected  position  of  the  logo  is  somewhere  on  top  of  the 
front  page.  This  expectation  on  the  part  of  the  recipient  is  the  major  factor  in 
favor  of  putting  it  there,  because  one  of  the  reasons  you  have  it  at  all  is  to 
tell  the  reader  at  first  glance  which  publication  he  or  she  is  looking  at.  It  is 
the  first  and  most  vital  reference  point  for  your  product,  and  traditional 
placement  is  probably  the  easiest  to  live  with. 

It  is,  of  course,  perfectly  possible  to  position  the  logo  elsewhere  on  the 
front  page:  in  the  middle  (waist  high),  at  the  bottom  (at  the  foot  of  the  page), 
or  sideways,  reading  upward  or  downward  (on  its  ear).  Such  unexpected 
handling  can  become  important  as  a  recognition  factor  in  itself,  as  long  as 
you  repeat  it  from  issue  to  issue,  exactly  the  way  you  started  out. 

Remember  to  consider  how  your  product  will  be  received:  flat  or 
folded?  In  either  case,  the  logo  ought  to  be  the  first  thing  the  recipient  sees. 
If  the  publication  is  flat,  then  the  graphic  strength  of  the  logo  will  ensure  its 
being  seen  first,  no  matter  where  it  is.  But  if  the  publication  is  folded,  then 
the  logo  ought  to  be  positioned  so  as  not  to  be  hidden  by  the  fold.  Such 
a  consideration  as  folding  is  another  reason  why  it  is  essential  that  you 
perceive  the  product  as  an  object  held  by  the  recipient  in  the  hands,  to  be 
unfolded,  uncrinkled,  and  seen  in  successive  steps  as  it  is  opened.  It  is 
necessary  that  you  avoid  falling  into  the  trap  of  designing  the  product  as  a 
flat  object,  even  though  it  is  made  up  flat  in  order  to  print  and  produce  it. 
Remember  that  there  are  areas  on  the  page  that  will  be  affected  by 
the  folding. 

One  more  element  to  consider:  Many  publications  are  mailed  out  with 
the  address  labels  attached  to  the  front  cover.  Clearly,  the  size  of  the  piece, 
as  well  as  the  machinery  used  to  attach  the  label,  affects  the  placement  of  that 
label.  But  you  had  better  find  out  about  that  before  you  design  the  front 
page,  for  it  must  be  accommodated  in  the  design.  It  is  far  better  to  know 
ahead  of  time  than  to  be  unpleasantly  surprised  that  the  logo  you  have 
fussed  over  with  such  meticulous  care  has  been  overlaid  by  some  loathsome 
address  label. 


How  to  make  the  name  impossible  to  miss 


Seven  factors  must  be  taken  into  account  here.  But,  before  we  discuss  them, 
you  must  make  sure  that  the  underlying  premise  is  understood:  we  need  to 
make  the  logo  visible  because  we  are  proud  of  it  and  because  it  represents 
us.  It  is  the  image  of  ourselves  that  we  want  to  project,  and  the  character 
and  atmosphere  of  that  image  affects  the  mood  of  the  potential  reader.  So 
we  should  show  it  off  clearly,  assuming,  of  course,  that  it  is  worthy  of  such 


Graphic  Artists  Guild 

NEWSLFITERI 


treatment.  But  let  us  make  a  positive  rather  than  a  negative  assumption  on 
that  score  and  analyze  the  seven  factors  that  must  be  combined  and  balanced 
in  order  to  give  the  logo  its  requisite  visibility. 


Anchorage  Daily  News 


^■^^  EdfeoB 


By  size 

Make  it  big  enough  so  it  overwhelms  everything  else.  How  big  is  that?  That 
depends  on  the  size  of  the  page,  the  scale  of  surrounding  materials,  and  the 
size  of  the  headline  typography  near  it.  It  is  impossible  to  devise  a  formula. 
Use  your  common  sense,  but  be  courageous,  and  err  on  the  side  of  bigness. 


Drop  shadow  type^^ 


Me 


Hafi 


<rHE9USINBS<WRITER 

<MflKING  WORDS  WORK  FOR  YOU 


By  blackness 

Making  letters  large  but  using  thin  lines  just  tends  to  make  the  logo  look 
scrawny  and  pale.  The  purpose  is  to  make  your  name  visible.  That  means 
giving  it  ample  ink  so  it  will  read  in  bold  contrast  to  the  paper  background. 
Boldface  type  run  tightly  together  or  type  with  "shadows"  that  add  extra 
ink,  good,  fat  ruled  lines — anything  to  add  color  and  darkness-. 


(SM^?rm?m 


>^K 


ORWALK  Hospital 


K 


insideBI     norwalk  hospital 


Published  bi-monthK-  for  friends  of  Norwalk  Hospital    January-  /Februan- 1983 

By  clarity 

The  single  most  important  element  is  the  name  itself.  Alas,  usually  it  needs 
to  be  accompanied  by  several  other  pieces  of  information:  a  line  indicating 
the  purpose  of  the  piece,  as  well  as  all  the  essentia!  publishing  information 
such  as  the  name  of  the  publishing  organization,  the  location,  the  date  of 
issue,  the  volume  and  number,  and  so  forth.  All  this  ancillary  information 
needs  to  be  placed  in  relation  to  the  logo.  Regrettably,  the  normal  practice 
is  to  surround  the  logo  with  itsy-bitsy  odds  and  ends  that  crackle  like  visual 
static  all  around  and  only  reduce  the  clarity,  and  thus  the  impact,  of  the 
precious  logo  itself.  The  logo  must  be  allowed  to  remain  dominant.  All 
the  additional  information  should  be  arrayed  inconspicuously  alongside 
or  beneath  it. 


TMimAGANmiPQmr 

A  WEEKLY  SURVEY  OF  IDEAS  AND  METHODS  FOR  COMMUNICATION  EXECUTIVES 


*        ^        THE  WEEKLY  SURVEY  OF  IDEAS       _H^ 

ANOMFTHnnSFflR 


By  contrast 

The  size  and  blackness  of  the  logo  will  appear  stronger  when  set  off  by  the 
smallness  and  paleness  of  ancillary  information.  Such  graphic  trickery  can 
work  magic,  because  if  the  secondary  matter  will  be  tiny,  you  can  reduce  the 
size  of  the  logo  and  take  up  less  of  your  precious  front-page  space,  yet  retain 
the  visual  impact  you  seek. 


17 


By  isolation 

To  achieve  maximum  visibility  and  impact,  it  is  wise  to  enclose  the  logo 
(with  its  ancillary  material)  in  a  self-contained  bubble  of  space.  The  area  of 
the  page  can  be  demarcated  by  an  edge  of  some  sort:  a  line  of  type,  a  moat 
of  empty  space,  a  box,  or  even  just  an  implied  line  that  is  injected  there  in 
the  imagination  of  the  viewer.  The  easiest,  and  probably  most  effective, 
device  is  to  have  a  ruled  line  separating  the  logo  area  from  the  rest  of 
the  page. 


RECOO 

m.1981- NUMBER  im. 


By  juxtaposition 

This  is  just  a  bombastic  way  of  bringing  your  attention  to  a  simple  but  vital 
concept — that  of  contrasting  fullness  to  emptiness,  printed  area  to  blank 
area,  type  to  white  space.  To  achieve  startling  visibility  for  the  logo,  allow  it 
to  be  seen  against  a  large,  clear,  uncluttered,  and  geometrically  shaped 
area  of  empty  surrounding  space.  And  "empty"  means  empty.  No  matter 
how  small  or  insignificant  a  word,  phrase,  or  date  may  be,  if  it  is  printed  in 
that  valuable  white  space,  it  will  spoil  the  whiteness  by  its  presence. 


The  Gaffer 


8/82 


AEA  PROGRESS 


NEWSLETTER  OF  THE  ARTS,  EDUCATION  AND  AMERICANS,  INC 


VOLUME  2/NUMBER  1 


By  separation 

No  amount  of  careful  logo  design — balance  against  white  space,  contrast 
with  tiny  type,  definition  of  space,  and  other  desirable  factors — will  be  any 
good  if  the  effect  is  undercut  by  competition  from  the  headline  below. 
Obviously,  the  best  story  is  the  first  one  on  page  1.  Equally  obvious,  the 
space  on  page  1  is  the  most  valuable.  Therefore,  the  temptation  is  to  cram 
as  much  onto  that  page  as  possible.  It  is  wise  to  resist  such  temptation  and 
retain  sufficient  space  between  the  logo  area  and  that  first  headline  to  allow 
each  to  be  seen  as  separate  elements,  rather  than  as  a  mass  of  matter  fighting 
for  the  reader's  attention  and  achieving  little  but  confusion. 


19 


Your  name/your  self:  why  you  ought  to  personalize  it 


Before  thinking  about  how  to  make  the  logo  "different,"  let's  just  agree  on 
the  fundamental  need  for  restraint,  because  the  logo  should  represent  your 
product  in  a  dependable,  dignified  manner  for  a  number  of  years.  It  must, 
therefore,  be  decorous  and  fit  your  image;  it  ought  not  to  be  startlingly 
trendy,  because  fashions  change  so  quickly;  and  it  ought  to  be  legible — 
although  the  distinction  between  legibility  as  type  and  recognition  as 
graphic  symbol  is  a  subtle  one  indeed  to  draw.  The  context,  the  specific 
wording,  the  audience,  and  the  planned  image,  as  well  as  your  own 
instinctive  feeling  for  Tightness,  must  be  the  determining  factors. 


#     Jttkltnga 


INKUNGS 


SiaplesHigh  School   70 North  Avenue '^tetpon  Conrccoojr  06680   2221209 


Given  the  importance  of  the  logo  as  the  symbol  of  your  identity,  it  is 
highly  advisable  to  turn  its  design  over  to  a  professional  designer.  But  do  be 
careful  about  whom  you  choose,  for  being  a  "professional"  is  no  guarantee 
of  capability  in  this  rather  arcane  field.  Designers  specialize  in  various 
aspects  of  their  profession,  the  same  way  that  lawyers  or  doctors  do  in  theirs. 
Design  has  many  branches,  and  competence  in  one  is  not  necessarily  a 
guarantee  of  the  same  in  all  the  others.  Be  especially  wary  of  entrusting  such 
crucial  problems  to  too  youthful  a  designer.  There  is  much  more  to  logo 
design  than  appears  at  first  glance.  Mature  judgment  as  to  appropriateness 
comes  only  with  experience — and  this  is  a  quality  you  must  be  able  to  rely 
upon  in  your  designer.  However  bright,  promising,  and  exciting  a  newcomer 


to  the  profession  may  be,  entrusting  your  precious  trademark/ symbol  to  him 
or  her  may  well  be  gambling  with  the  wrong  material  at  the  wrong  time.  As 
in  all  things,  you  get  what  you  pay  for,  and  what  you  are  paying  for  is  not 
merely  clever  design,  but  right  design.  A  good  logo  is  an  investment  whose 
cost  is  amortized  over  a  long  period  of  time;  it  is  therefore  wise  to  pay  a 
little  more  to  be  sure  of  getting  the  best. 


How  to  make  the  name  look  different 


Essentially,  there  are  two  graphic  areas  under  consideration:  typographic 
amendment  and  pictorial  imaging.  They  can  be  used  individually  or  in 
combination.  They  are  also  seriously  affected  by  the  surroundings  in  which 
they  will  be  observed.  All  of  this  sounds  awesome  and  occult,  but  please 
don't  be  put  off.  They  are  just  a  couple  of  techniques  that  are  given  recondite 
names  to  raise  them  to  the  level  of  intellectual  concepts.  Read  on — in  short 
order  they  will  become  totally  demystified  and  bafflingly  clear  to  you. 


By  amending  the  typography 

What  do  we  mean  by  "typographic  amendment"?  Quite  simply:  playing 
with  the  type — fooling  around  with  the  shapes  of  the  letters,  slurring  them, 
overlapping  them,  changing  bits  and  pieces  of  them  to  make  a  fun 
monogram,  pulling  at  a  line  and  elongating  it  and  wriggling  it  around; 
interweaving  letters,  bumping  them  up  close  to  each  other — in  short,  using 
the  words  and  letters  as  malleable  material. 


NYU 


03smB 


TniTlcnn  college  ^ 

:)f  physicians 


Clearly,  how  far  to  go  is  where  the  problem  lies.  Equally  clear,  if  you 
want  a  personalized  version  of  a  word,  you  have  to  do  something  to  it  that 
will  change  the  way  it  looks  in  plain  type.  The  straight  type  you  receive  from 
the  typesetter  or  make  yourself  from  transfer  lettering  is  just  the  very 
beginning.  If  you  use  calligraphic  type  or  a  typeface  that  is  sufficiently 


21 


VDion 


^y^^BuOetitv 


M©bil 


^M 


unusual  in  itself,  perhaps  you  should  leave  it  alone  and  avoid  painting  the 
lily.*  But  if  it  is  an  unexceptional  typeface,  then  some  tampering  may  well 
prove  to  be  called  for.  Think  of  the  Mobil  sign:  plain,  simple,  dignified  type 
with  the  o  picked  out  in  red.  That  is  tampering  in  terms  of  color.  Think  of 
the  Exxon  sign:  the  double  X  combined  into  one  ligature  with  the  legs 
extended  beneath  the  bottom  of  the  word.  That  is  tampering  in  terms  of 
letter  form.  Think  of  Coca  Cola:  the  wave  beneath  the  word  remains  even 
when  the  words  are  in  Arabic!  That  is  tampering  with  the  words  by  adding 
an  external  element  to  them.  Here,  for  the  fun  of  it,  is  an  arbitrary  collection 
of  logos  to  show  the  rich  variety  of  which  plain  old  type  is  capable.  Is  it  any 
wonder  that  restraint  and  judgment  are  needed  to  produce  the  kind  that 
is  exactly  right  for  you? 


r 


THI-VIMS  PKKSS.  INC 


NOTES 


The 

Independent 

Investor 


*lncidentally,  did  you  realize  that 
"gilding  the  lily"  is  a  misquotation 
besides  being  a  cliche? 
"To  gild  refined  gold, 
to  paint  the  lily, 
to  throw  perfume  on  the  violet, 
to  smooth  the  ice 

or  add  another  hue 
unto  the  rainbow, 

or  with  taper-light 
to  seek  the  beauteous  eye 

of  heaven  to  garnish, 
is  wasteful  and  ridiculous  excess." 
(Shakespeare,  King  John,  Act  IV, 
Scene  2.) 

And  here  you  thought  this  was  just 
a  how-to  book! 


Nai 

JUST 


i/\ZZ 


The  Arts-Seen  Thru  the  Eyes  of  the  Artist^ 


lains 
Fatmer 


By  pictorial  imagery 
^Sl  ^"'^S     ^^^  ""  make  your  symbol  unique  by  adding  pictures,  drawings,  pictograms, 
^l^^/^l^^     visual  symbols,  coats-of-arms,  company  trademarks,  maps,  buildings,  and 
such  assorted  graphic  material  to  the  name.  But  what  a  terrifying  minefield 
that  is  to  cross,  with  booby  traps  on  all  sides.  First  common-sense  rule: 
When  in  doubt,  don't.  Second  common-sense  rule:  If  you  must,  then  get 
a  competent  guide.  Third  common-sense  rule:  Make  it  small.  Fourth 
common-sense  rule:  Make  the  words  dominant.  That  about  says  it  all, 
because  to  try  to  generalize  about  this  totally  subjective  and  individual  set 
of  conditions  is  not  likely  to  be  helpful,  except  in  the  most  elementary  way. 
Perhaps  it  is  worthwhile  showing  a  few  examples. 


THE- 

UCLA 
MONTHLY 


Securities  Regti/ation  and  Transfer  Report 


£5b 


Cthessie  News 

Arbitration 
Tiines 

^v^\s  i \/> \ w,\\s from rm wmKicw  \RmTR\Tio\  \ssoa\rio\ 


Enriching  the  name's  effectiveness  with  color 


Colorfulness  achieved  by  running  the 
logo  in  a  "second"  color:  the  panel 
is  in  mustard  brown,  the  name 
dropped  out  in  white  and  the  word 
"letter"  surprinted  in  black.  All  on 
tan-colored  stock.  At  right,  colorfulness 
reaches  maximum:  the  photo  (in 
color,  of  course)  continues  up  into 
the  logo  against  a  pale  yellow 
background. 


The  visual  effect  of  color  may  well  enrich  the  physical  product — and  the  cost 
may  well  impoverish  the  coffers.  It  is  worth  considering  nonetheless,  because 
it  is  a  simple  procedure  that  can  pay  rich  dividends.  The  logo  is  an  element 
that  is  likely  to  be  constant  from  issue  to  issue.  The  date  may  change,  but  the 
logo  itself  won't.  You  are,  therefore,  dealing  with  the  one  element  that  is  a 
known  quantity  in  the  future.  In  printing,  as  in  all  manufacturing,  unit  cost 
decreases  as  volume  increases.  If  you  have  a  longer  pressrun  ,  if  you  print 
more  at  one  time,  your  individual  pieces  will  cost  you  less.  That  might  well 
make  it  cheaper  to  do  peculiar  things  like  printing  your  logo  in  purple  or 
green.  In  fact,  if  you  run  off  enough  of  them,  the  price  may  even  go  down  far 
enough  to  be  economical.  Your  regular  print  order  is,  let  us  say,  5,000  pieces 
a  month,  yet  you  order  60,000.  That  way  you  have  a  full  year's  worth  of  logos 
in  readiness,  printed  at  volume  prices,  based  on  today's  cost  of  paper  and 
production.  True,  your  added  cost  is  that  of  the  storage  of  your  overrun  (the 
extras  you  don't  need  for  this  upcoming  issue).  But  what  is  it  that  you  have? 
Stacks  and  stacks  of  your  publication's  paper  preprinted  with  the  logo  in 
color,  like  blank  letterheads.  Those  blanks  will  then  go  through  the  press  a 
second  time  using  normal-color  ink  (most  probably  black)  to  print  the 
actual  issue's  content. 

There  are  presses  that  can  print  two  colors  in  one  "pass,"  of  course. 
They  have  two  sets  of  rollers  that  touch  the  paper  in  succession,  one  bearing 
ink  of  one  color,  the  other  ink  of  another  color.  Obviously,  such  a  complex 
press  costs  more  to  use  than  a  single-color  press.  If  you  are  already  using 
such  equipment,  you  are  probably  utilizing  its  capabilities  for  more  than 
merely  running  the  logo  in  color  anyway.  But  if  you  are  restricted  to  a 
one-color  press,  you  should  not  rule  out  using  more  than  one  color,  if  you 
want  it,  in  a  second  pass. 

Now,  take  it  a  step  further:  How  about  printing  color  on  something 
other  than  white  paper?  Color-on-color — the  variety  and  effects  are  limitless. 
Aaah!  Yes,  money:  well,  perhaps  it  might  be  worth  looking  into  the  actual 
costs.  They  may  not  be  prohibitive,  and  the  benefit  of  improved  quality  and 
personality  may  well  be  worth  that  added  cost. 


Carworth 


61ri^  : :— —i 


How  to  make  your  own  special  logo 


ISkm/ 


By  lettering  it  yourself  or  commissioning  a  calligrapher 
This  is  liable  to  result  in  the  most  personalized  image  of  all,  if  it  is  well 
executed.  If,  however,  it  is  not  masterfully  drawn,  the  result  can  bring  down 
the  tone  of  the  product  undeservedly.  It  depends  on  the  character  you  are 
trying  to  achieve:  For  an  informal,  unpretentious  "family  style"  effect, 
comparatively  unsophisticated  lettering  may  be  just  right.  But  it  is  always 
wise  to  err  on  the  side  of  well-crafted  styling,  if  only  for  the  dignity  that  it 
helps  to  impart. 


Name 

N 
NAME 


By  using  ready-made  lettering 

Ready-made  lettering  comes  in  two  basic  varieties  (both  available  at  your 
local  art  supply  dealer):  type  imprinted  on  adhesive  acetate  sheets  from 
which  you  cut  each  letter  and  attach  it  to  your  paper;  and  type  imprinted  on 
sheets  from  which  it  is  transferred  to  your  paper  by  rubbing.  The  cut-out 
kind  is  easier  to  control  because  each  letter  is  movable  until  you  are  happy 
with  its  position  (and  you  can  shift  it  around  afterward,  unless  you  have 
burnished  it  down  tight).  Transfer  lettering  stays  where  you  put  it,  unless  you 
physically  remove  it*  and  rub  down  another  letter  in  its  place. 

The  wisest  procedure  is  to  do  a  rough — no,  several  roughs — which  you 
then  copy  in  the  final,  because  the  lettering  sheets  are  fairly  expensive. 
A  rough  is  simply  a  piece  of  tracing  paper  (transparent,  smooth  paper 
specifically  made  for  tracing)  that  you  place  over  the  lettering  sheet  and  on 
which  you  lightly  draw  your  word  letter  by  letter.  The  shapes  of  the  letters 
will  suggest  amendments  to  you  once  you  see  them  strung  on  to  each 
other.  Clearly,  the  bigger  the  letters,  the  easier  it  is  to  handle  them.  Working 
with  type  any  smaller  than  60  points  gets  to  be  tricky  indeed. 

Each  manufacturer  of  ready-made  lettering  sets  has  a  different  system  to 
help  you  with  the  spacing  of  the  letters  and  clean  alignment.  Most  sets  have 


oDfy 


Hame 


a  horizontal  line  below  each  letter,  which  you  place  directly  over  the 
guideline  you  have  drawn  on  your  own  paper.  (Each  manufacturer  also 
publishes  a  catalog  of  its  full  line  of  materials,  in  which  clear  instructions  on 
how  to  use  the  sheets  as  well  as  useful  tips  and  shortcuts  are  included.  Most 
of  these  catalogs  are  free.)  It  is  a  very  simple  procedure  to  produce  a  word  or 
two  with  transfer  lettering,  provided  you  work  accurately,  cleanly,  and 
carefully,  and  use  the  right  tools  (the  same  as  are  needed  for  making 
mechanicals;  see  page  148)- 
*To  remove  transfer  lettering  cleanly,  simply  pick  it  up  with  adhesive  tape. 


By  having  it  set  in  type 

In  the  past,  printers  supplied  typesetting  as  one  of  their  basic  services,  and 
they  continue  to  do  so.  However,  since  typesetting  is  a  highly  specialized 
branch  of  the  graphic  arts,  many  independent  suppliers  have  set  up  shop. 
They  are  likely  to  have  a  more  interesting  selection  of  faces  available,  as 
well  as  a  variety  of  machinery  to  generate  them.  (The  richness  of  their 
stock-in-trade  is  their  reason  for  being — added  to  quality  workmanship  and 
service,  of  course.)  You  must  get  their  sample  book  to  determine  what  is 


Helvetica  Thin 
Helvetica  Thin  Italic 
Helvetica  Light 
Helvetica  Light  Italic 
Helvetica  Light  Condensed 
Helvetica  Light  Condensed  Italic 
Helvetica  Light  Extended 
Helvetica 
Helvetica  Italic 
Helvetica  Condensed 


Helvetica  Condensed  Italic 
Helvetica  Extended 
Helvetica  Bold 
Helvetica  Bold  Italic 
Helvetica  Bold  Condensed 
Helvetica  Bold  Condensed  Italic 
Helvetica  Bold  Extended 
Helvetica  Heavy 
Helvetica  Heavy  Italic 
Helvetica  Black 


Helvetica  Black  Condensed 
Helvetica  Black  Condensed  Italic 
Helvetica  Black  Extended 

Helvetica  Compressed 

Helvetica  Extra  Compressed 

Helvelica  Ultra  Compressed 
'■'i  ■-■'■'  ':^'  ■;  "'•■   '  :  ■■"yftdDOTKi 
Helvetica  Rounded  Bold 
Helvetica  Rounded  Bold  Italic 


available  to  you.  Then  you  take  your  word  and  specify  it.  You  must  tell  them 
the  name  of  the  face,  the  size  (in  points  or  a  dimension  of  the  capital  letter), 
the  case  (upper  or  lower)  you  want,  the  weight  (bold,  extra  bold,  regular, 
light,  etc.),  the  style  (roman  or  italic),  as  well  as  any  other  peculiarities  you 
may  wish.  Many  special  faces  come  with  alternate  characters,  such  as  two 
versions  of  e,  which  you  need  to  specify.  You  must  also  specify  spacing 
between  letters,  for  given  today's  flexibility  of  photographic  output, 
typesetting  machines  can  give  you  spacing  that  is  "normal,"  "tight,"  or 
"extra  wide"  between  letters,  according  to  your  preference.  The  terminology 
you  use  for  such  specification  varies  according  to  the  technology,  but 
common-sense  nomenclature  in  plain  English,  such  as  "set  normal  spacing" 
or  "tight  but  not  touching"  is  translatable  into  machine  speech  by  the 
operator.  (See  more  on  typesetting  and  specifying  on  page  47)  The 
typesetter  will  provide  you  with  a  printout  if  it  is  photographically 
generated,  or  a  reproduction  proof  (repro  proof  in  the  vernacular)  if  it 
was  printed  on  a  press. 


30 

ee 

\\ 

gg 


normal  abcclefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
tight  abcdefghijklmnopqrstu\AA/xyz 
very  tight  alxclefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 
touching  abcclefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 


How  to  achieve  the  personalized  look  once  the  name  is  in  type 


Once  you  have  your  word  in  final,  clean  typographic  form  (whether  it  be 
hand-lettered,  do-it-yourself,  or  typeset),  you  may  wish  to  amend  some  of  the 
letters  in  order  to  personalize  them,  make  them  more  into  a  trademark  form. 


Dhislraled 


Above:  this  is  about  the  smallest 
size  you  can  work  with  accurately  and 
comfortably  to  achieve  the  precision 
the  subject  demands.  The  size  also 
helps  you  to  notice  what  needs  doing. 

First  step  in  tampering  with  the  type 
is  shown  in  (1):  the  horizontal  stroke 
of  the  "t"  on  the  left  was  removed 
to  close  up  the  space  between  the 
"st,"  but  it  was  left  alone  in  the 
second  "t,"  because  it  tucks  into  the 
space  created  by  the  lower  serif  of 
the  "a'.'  The  "ra"  was  also  tightened 
and  overlapped,  as  werp  the  "11'.' 

Second  step:  addition  of  the  horizontal 
bar  (2). 

Third  step:  shortening  the  "11"  to 
allow  the  bar  to  extend  across  the 
entire  word.  Enlarging  the  initial  "I" 
to  create  a  space  into  which  the 
underscoring  bar  can  be  inserted. 

Still  to  be  improved:  the  irritating 

gap  in  the  "r." 


im::^ 


ited 
limstrated 

You  should  never  tamper  with  the  original,  but  have  an  enlargement  made 
(a  "PMT";  see  page  130)  to  much  larger  scale.  Three-inch-tall  capital  letters 
are  ideal,  although  if  you  have  a  word  like  "Antidisestablishmentarianism," 
you  might  prefer  type  a  wee  bit  smaller.  That  is  the  version  you  monkey 
with.  When  you  have  perfected  it,  you  will  then  reduce  it  to  the  final  size 
needed  for  your  publication.  Why  do  you  need  to  have  it  so  large?  Because 
only  when  it  is  large  can  you  discern  details  and  control  amendments  that 
are  needed.  Not  only  does  it  make  the  work  easier,  but  it  also  protects  you, 
since  minor  errors  of  workmanship  will  disappear  in  the  subsequent  reduction. 

How  do  you  do  the  amending?  Before  doing  anything  else  you  must 
draw  a  fine  horizontal  line  under  the  word.  That  will  ensure  your  getting 
the  letters  vertical  and  properly  aligned  if  you  cut  them  apart  for  later 
reassembly.  Next,  you  apply  wax  to  the  back  of  the  paper,  which  will  allow 
the  letters  to  adhere  to  a  surface  and  worked  with  until  you  are  finally 
satisfied  with  the  result  and  can  burnish  them  down  permanently.  Then  you 
cut  the  letters  apart  with  scissors  or  a  blade  of  some  sort  and  start  the 
tightening,  overlapping,  and  expanding  process.  Once  you  have  the  type  the 
way  you  want  it,  you  add  the  art  symbols  to  it,  if  you  plan  to  use  any.  The 
more  cleanly  you  work,  the  better  the  final  result.  Use  fine  pen  and  black 
India  ink  for  making  lines.  For  wider  lines  you  can  get  broader  nibs,  or  you 
can  affix  ready-made  lines  that  you  cut  from  acetate  sheets  or  transfer  to  the 
paper  from  rub-off  sheets.  Experiment  with  the  techniques  involved  first; 
don't  expect  to  reach  perfection  at  first  try;  go  back  and  start  again  if  the 
result  looks  too  messy.  And,  if  it  looks  hopeless,  get  help.  These  skills  are 
not  easy  to  acquire.  Check  with  your  high  school  art  teacher  or  get 
recommendations  from  the  printer,  reproduction  supplier,  or  art  supply 
store,  or  go  to  the  local  ad  agency  or  graphic  design  studio — it  is 
remarkable  how  widespread  the  availability  of  specialized  help  actually  is, 
if  only  one  looks  for  it.  And  quality  doesn't  ever  come  cheap,  so  expect  to 
pay  a  fair  fee  for  the  work  involved.  Trying  to  do  it  yourself  first,  though,  will 
make  you  realize  what  a  designer  has  to  do  to  earn  that  fee! 


27 


How  to 
make 
the  most 
of 

typewriter 
''typography'' 


Many  producers  of  printed  communications  tend  to  be  apologetic  about  the 
type  they  use — or  rather  don't  use.  They  feel  that  a  piece  is  makeshift, 
second  rate,  and  shoddy  unless  it  has  been  set  in  type  by  a  typesetter.  This  Is 
a  grave  error,  for  even  the  most  primitive  typewriter  Image  can  be  handsome, 
legible,  and  inviting  if  used  in  a  fashion  that  makes  the  most  of  its  qualities. 
Typewriter  type  can  be  effective  If  it  is  appropriate  to  the  writing  style, 
subject  matter,  format,  paper  stock,  method  of  distribution,  scale  of  page 
size,  and  so  on — if,  in  other  words,  the  reader's  expectation  Is  fulfilled  by  a 

well-balanced  product. 

Clearly,  attempts  at  producing  a  sophisticated   image  with 

a  typewriter  will  look  unsatisfactory:  aping  an  expensive  appearance 
without  simultaneously  conforming  the  content  to  that  appearance  creates 
Insurmountable  problems.  On  the  other  hand,  understanding  the  advantages, 
as  well  as  the  limitations,  of  a  specific  medium  can  result  In  a  product  that 
has  vigor,  immediacy,  intimacy  of  Information,  and,  yes,  the  good  handsome 
look  of  something  that  is  "right"  for  what  it  Is. 

So  get  rid  of  that  chip  on  the  shoulder  and  start  your  fingers  pounding 
those  typewriter  keys.  And,  in  order  to  make  the  most  of  the  technology  at 
your  disposal — with  all  Its  limitations — restrain  your  desire  for  fanciness  and 
dressing  things  up.  Instead,  work  within  the  restrictions  imposed  by  the 
machinery.  Write  the  Items  as  short  newsy  pieces,  have  an  Insider's  attitude 
and  tone  of  voice  (to  make  recipients  think  they're  In  on  the  latest  Inside 
information).  Think  of  the  product  as  a  hot-tip  sheet,  be  informal  in 
language,  make  it  as  person-to-person  as  Is  sensible — use  the  word  you 
often.  Don't  print  the  piece  on  slick  stock,  but  use  paper  that  is  reminiscent 
of  letterhead:  Preprint  your  logo  in  a  second  color,  and  then  impose  your 
contents  on  that  paper  as  though  It  were  a  letter  typed  on  a  letterhead.  Don't 
write  articles  with  headlines  and  subheads  in  the  typical  magazine  format, 
but  organize  the  piece  Into  smaller  units,  each  of  which  is  signaled  by  an 
underscored  start  to  the  paragraph,  perhaps;  or  use  boldface  or  all  cap 
lead-ins  or  hanging  indents.  Don't  try  to  "catch  the  reader":  You  must  work 
with  the  assumption  that  the  very  fact  the  recipient  is  on  your  mailing  list 
indicates  that  he  or  she  is  already  vitally  interested  in  what  you  have  to  say. 
Therefore,  saying  it  straightforwardly  and  making  it  appear  simple  Is 
perfectly  satisfactory.  The  essence  of  typewritten  material  is  that  It  is  such 
valuable,  timely  information  that  the  producers  haven't  had  the  time  or  the 
need  to  gussy  it  up. 

The  visual  success  of  typewritten  pieces  lies  in  the  composition  of  the 
material  on  the  page,  In  Its  simplicity,  consistency,  and  Imaginative  use  of 
space.  Some  examples  of  this  approach  can  be  seen  throughout  this 
chapter.  First,  It  is  necessary  to  discuss  some  of  the  more  matter-of-fact 
technicalities  before  getting  Into  how  to  assemble  an  overall  project. 


Typewriter  type,  strike-on  type,  cold  type:  what  they  are 


Basically,  they  are  the  same  thing.  They  produce  little  black  marks  on  paper 
as  a  result  of  a  key  being  depressed,  which  in  turn  triggers  a  mechanism 
that  transfers  black  carbon  or  ink  onto  paper.  The  machine  used  can  be  as 
simple  as  an  old  mechanical  typewriter,  or  as  up  to  date  as  a  word  processor — 
but  all  produce  a  product  without  having  had  recourse  to  hot  metal  (as  in 
traditional  typesetting)  or  photographic  exposure  of  the  characters  (as  in 
phototypesetting).  Cold  type  used  in  reference  to  phototype  is  a  confusing 
misnomer.  The  essence  of  cold  type — just  like  strike-on  or  typewriter  type — 
is  that  it  is  the  result  of  a  direct  impression  on  the  paper.  The  machinery  that 
can  generate  this  kind  of  result  is  comparatively  cheap  and  easy  to  use, 
although,  of  course,  its  capabilities  vary  with  the  sophistication  of  the 
processor.  The  limitations  of  what  can  and  cannot  be  done  are  built  into  the 
machinery.  Because  of  the  simplicity  of  typewriter  type,  the  cost  of  producing 
usable  typescript,  ready  for  reproduction,  is  low.  But  just  because  it  is 
economical  to  produce  doesn't  mean  that  the  final  result  has  to  look  cheap. 

It  is  difficult  indeed  to  generalize,  since  there  are  so  many  variations  of 
machinery  available:  their  features  differ  and  therefore,  too,  the  resultant 
output.  However,  it  can  be  said  about  all  of  them  that  there  is  some  rigidity 
in  the  shape  of  each  character  and  the  space  each  takes,  as  well  as  the 
spacing  between  characters.  Amendments  have  indeed  been  attempted  to 
reduce  the  rigidity  of  a  normal  typewriter,  where  a  narrow  letter  such  as  a 
lowercase  /  must  be  made  to  take  the  same  space  as  a  wide  letter  like  a 
capital  M.  On  "executive"  typewriters,  the  letters  have  been  given  shapes 
and  spaces  more  appropriate  to  their  characteristics.  Nevertheless,  the 
subtleties  of  spacing  between  letters,  the  coloration,  and  the  flexibility  that 
have  been  developed  over  centuries  of  tradition  and  innovation  to  improve 
legibility  in  typeset  material  cannot  possibly  be  produced  on  the  typewriter. 

Typewriter  faces  are  available  in  several  basic  styles.  The  most  common 
For   lengthy   forms ,    general     is  the  square  serif  style :  this  is  the  most  expected  and,  therefore,  the  most 
innocuous  and  unpretentious.  It  is  probably  the  easiest  to  read,  too,  if  only 
because  the  reader  pays  no  attention  to  it  since  it  is  so  expected.  Therefore, 
it  doesn't  interpose  itself  between  the  reader  and  the  message  as  a  much 
0^  execotcue,    p^A^onal.  u4e^     more  self-consciously  designed  script  style  does.  That  has  appropriate  usage 
for  short  or  specialized  messages,  but  its  use  for  entire  publications  is 
For    forms,    correspondence     questionable.  The  sans-serif  or  gothic  style  is  bolder,  heavier,  and  larger  and 
thus  perfect  for  headlines.  It  is  less  perfect  for  solid  text,  although  the 
situation's  specific  needs  as  well  as  your  judgment  must  be  the  final  arbiter, 
For  classic   strength     as  always.  The  reman  or  executive  style,  which  has  thick  and  thin  strokes  in 
the  letters  themselves,  a  variety  of  widths  of  letters,  as  well  as  proportional 
spacing,  is  probably  the  easiest  to  read  since  it  comes  closest  to  proper 
For  scientific,    legal  work     typeset  proportioning.  Typewriter  type  can  also  be  in  italic  style,  a  useful 
complement  to  the  square  serif.  The  examples  shown  here  are  from  the 
IBM  catalog. 

Mixing  type  styles  can  yield  a  piece  with  great  visual  variety,  and  this 
may  well  be  good,  if  the  type  styles  chosen  help  to  convey  the  sense  of 
different  kinds  of  material  or  messages  through  their  visual  differences.  A 


meaningless  fancy-dress  party  where  variety  is  used  for  its  own  sake  tends  to 
look  like  a  formless  jumble  and  confuses  readers  more  than  it  helps  them 
through  the  piece.  As  in  all  editorial  presentation  (the  "art"  end  of  editing), 
what  matters  is  the  content  and  not  the  form.  If  your  type  can  help  to 
communicate  that  content  to  the  reader,  then  go  ahead  and  do  what  your 
instincts  tell  you  to  do  and  have  fun.  But  avoid  being  different  for  the  sake 
of  being  different. 
Ule    have    Knoun    many  Some  of  the  newest  computers  produce  printouts  that  are  ideal  for 

interviewed    scores  reading  by  machine  but  are  probably  the  worse  offenders  with  respect  to 

ue  '  ve    found    there    is      legibility  by  people,  because  their  wide  spacing  disintegrates  the  fabric  of 
efflpioyea    DV  ^I^^  letter  group  by  which  we  read  or  recognize  complete  words.  Machines 

"read"  letter  by  letter,  and  for  them  such  travesty  of  typesetting  is  essential — 
but  let  us  not  attempt  to  foist  off  what  is  made  for  machines  onto  people. 


How  long  should  typewritten  lines  be? 


Given  the  standard  SVz"  x  11"  page,  you  have  two  basic  choices:  setting  your 
lines  to  full-page  width  in  one  column  about  7"  wide,  or  in  two  columns 
about  3y2"  wide  each.  In  pica  type,  at  10  characters  to  the  inch,  you  have  70 
characters  in  a  line  the  width  of  the  full  page  (which  is  a  bit  much  if  there  are 
many  lines  to  face),  and  you  have  35  characters  in  each  half-page-wide 
column.  In  elite  type,  at  12  characters  per  inch,  those  numbers  grow  to  84 
and  42  characters  respectively.  If  you  reduce  the  scale  of  your  type 
photographically  (see  page  31  for  how  and  why)  your  numbers  will 
grow  accordingly. 

What  is  the  ideal  line  length?  It  varies,  depending  on  the  kind  of  subject 
matter,  size  of  type,  spacing  between  lines,  number  of  lines,  amount  of 
breakup  (subheads  and  the  like),  color  of  ink  and  paper,  excellence  of 
printing,  size  of  page,  number  of  pages,  and  so  forth.  It  is  folly  to  pretend 
that  one  single  formula  can  cover  all  these  contingencies,  especially  if  it 
is  a  guess  to  start  with.  The  best  decision  can  be  reached  only  through 
observation  of  others'  products  whose  results  you  admire,  and  by 
experimenting  with  your  own  publication  to  see  how  it  comes  out  most 
satisfactorily.  Clearly,  such  experimentation  should  be  done  before  you 
commit  yourself  to  a  standardized  format.  It  is  always  better  to  go  through  a 
dry  run  or  two  than  to  do  your  gambling  with  the  first  real  issue. 

The  advantage  of  a  single  column  on  the  page  is  that  it  makes  the 
publication  look  like  a  letter:  a  personal  communication,  inside 
information.  That  character  is  very  appropriate  for  a  newsletter;  it  is 
enhanced  by  the  title  being  preprinted  in  a  second  color  so  it  looks  like  a 
letterhead  (see  page  24  for  logos  in  color). 

A  two-column  page  structure  is  easier  to  read  because  the  lines  are 
shorter.  But  it  is  much  more  difficult  to  compose  neatly  and  clearly,  and  the 
resultant  confusion  may  reduce  the  full  page's  legibility. 

One  variation  on  the  single-column  format  might  be  considered 
seriously:  Leave  an  extra-deep  indent  at  left  to  allow  space  for  headings  to 
be  inserted.  The  type  lines  are  shorter.  Heads  are  visible,  and  generous  white 
space  acts  as  a  foil  to  the  type  and  adds  lightness  to  the  overall  effect.  You 


do,  indeed,  need  more  pages  to  accommodate  your  material.  Consider 
this,  though:  Isn't  it  better  to  be  read  (even  if  it  costs  a  page  or  two  more) 
than  to  be  cast  aside  as  unattractive  (having  saved  that  extra  paper)? 


Should  you  use  ragged-right  or  justified  typewriter  typing? 


Justified  setting  means  that  all  the  lines  in  the  column  are  of  the  same  length, 
yielding  a  clean  left-hand  edge  and  a  clean  right-hand  edge — except,  of 
course,  for  the  last  line  of  a  paragraph,  which  is  necessarily  shorter,  and  the 
first  line  of  a  paragraph,  which  is  usually  indented.  In  order  to  achieve  the 
desired  alignment  of  the  outside  edges,  you  have  to  manipulate  the  lines  of 
text  inside  the  column.  You  have  to  space  out  between  words  or,  in 
some  regrettable  instances,  even  between  the  letters  of  the  word  in  order  to 
make  the  line  come  out  to  the  right  length.  This  undoubtedly  helps  the  page 
to  look  neat  at  first  glance,  but  it  disturbs  the  legibility  of  the  type  because 
we  recognize  words  by  letter  groups.  Making  unexpected,  random,  artificial 
gaps  between  the  words,  or  even  between  the  letters,  dislocates  the  rhythm 
with  which  we  scan  the  text.  That,  in  turn,  makes  us  conscious  of  the  act 
of  reading,  disturbs  our  concentration,  and  thus  is  detrimental  to  our 
comprehension  of  the  message. 

Ragged-right  setting  trades  off  a  neat  right-hand  edge  for  ease  of 
reading.  By  removing  the  need  to  open  up  space  between  words,  it  ensures 
a  steady  flow  of  typographic  images  in  their  optimal  relationship  to  each 
other  and,  thus,  improves  legibility. 

In  typewritten  copy,  where  the  machine  itself  already  compromises 
the  quality  of  legibility  by  tampering  with  the  shapes  of  the  characters 
themselves  (by  making  them  fit  into  spaces  of  equal  width  or  a  small  number 
of  subunits),  it  would  be  folly  to  decrease  the  legibility  by  yet  one  more 
degree.  We  expect  to  see  typewritten  matter  set  ragged  on  the  right,  for  that 
is  the  natural  output  of  the  machinery.  Forcing  it  to  justify  (by  typing  it  a 
second  time  and  enlarging  the  holes  between  words)  is  an  inappropriate 
mode  of  expression  for  the  mechanics  of  typewriting  that  leads  to  an 
unaesthetic  visual  result.  In  other  words:  Sure,  you  can  do  it,  but  it's  likely 
to  look  awful! 


How  to  reduce  the  scale  of  typewriter  type 


A  letter  typewritten  on  a  normal  letterhead  has  an  image  that  we  expect  to 
see:  It  looks  and  feels  right.  It  is  in  line  with  our  expectations  of  what  we 
consider  to  be  in  scale  with  the  page.  The  8V2"  x  11"  page  size — that  is, 
normal  U.S.  letter  size — is  somewhat  larger  (yes,  larger!)  than  the  standard 
magazine  page.  If  you  count  up  the  number  of  words*  on  the  typical  page  of 
typewritten  copy  and  compare  it  to  the  total  on  a  page  from,  say.  Time 
magazine,  you'll  be  amazed  at  the  difference.  7/me  crowds  in  close  to  300% 
more  in  the  same  space.  Yet,  in  spite  of  its  smallness,  the  type  is  clearly 

'About  counting  words:  An  average  of  5  characters  is  assumed  for  each  word.  In  highly 
specialized  texts,  you  might  be  more  accurate  if  you  counted  5.5  characters  per  word;  and 
for  children's  books,  perhaps  4  or  4.5  characters  per  word. 


legible.  That  is  because  the  reader's  expectation  of  a  magazine  page  is  quite 
different  from  that  of  a  typewritten  letter  page.  The  concentration  and 
focusing  are  automatically  adjusted  to  correspond  to  the  product  held  in 
the  hand. 

To  make  typewriter  type  palatable,  it  is  highly  advisable  to  reduce  its 
scale  from  the  normal  letter  size  to  something  a  little  smaller.  If,  as  is  most 
likely,  you  are  printing  by  offset,  the  printer  will  have  to  turn  the  camera-ready 
copy  you  supply  into  a  printing  plate  that  is  made  from  a  photographic 
negative.  Any  time  a  photographic  process  comes  into  play,  an  opportunity 
for  enlargement  or  reduction  of  the  size  is  at  hand.  If  you  submit  an  original 
that  is  a  smidgen  larger  than  the  final  product,  the  camera  can  make  the 
needed  adjustment  for  you,  probably  at  no  extra  charge.  Here  is  a  perfect 
opportunity  to  improve  the  scale  and  look  of  your  piece  with  very  little 
effort.  But  it  is  not  quite  so  easy — You  must  know  two  things:  How  will  the 
type  look  and  read  when  it  is  reduced?  How  much  more  material  will  you 
have  to  prepare  for  the  page  if  you  reduce  the  scale  of  the  type?  If  you 
reduce  the  size  by,  say,  10%,  you  make  room  for  10%  more  material  to  fill 
the  same  space,  don't  you?  To  determine  the  answer  to  the  second  question, 
you  must  first  figure  out  the  mathematics  of  the  first  question. 

To  help  you  make  up  your  mind  as  to  how  type  is  likely  to  read  when 
reduced  photographically,  here  is  a  table  of  reductions  of  a  sample  block 


This   is    a  sample   of  several   lines   of  typing  using 
a  typing  element   called  Elite ,    twelve-pitch,   on   an 
electric   typewriter.    This   is    the   size   the  machine 
produces.    It   looks  well  in   its    own   context,    on   a 
letterhead,   but   it    appears   eno2nnous   in   a  book  —  and 
so  it   is  I    That's  why  it  needs   to  be   reduced: 


focus    96.0  This    is   a   sample   of   several   lines   of  typing  using 
a  typing   element   called  Elite ,   twelve-pitch,   on   an 
electric  typewriter.    The  number  of  characters  per 
line   is   about    fifty   —  which   is   perhaps   a  good, 
round  niomber   for  easy   legibility   in   this  material 


9^.0    This    is   a   sample   of   several    lines   of  typing  using 
a  typing   element    called  Elite ,    twelve-pitch,    on   an 
electric   typewriter.    The   number  of   characters   per 
line    is    about    fifty   —  which    is   perhaps    a  good, 
round   number   for   easy    legibility    in   this  material 


92.0    This    is    a   sample   of   several   lines   of  typing  using 
a  typing   element    called  Elite ,    twelve-pitch,    on   an 
electric   typewriter.    The   number   of  characters   per 
line    is   about    fifty   —  which   is   perhaps    a  good, 
round   number   for   easy   legibility    in   this   material 


90.0    This    is   a   sample   of   several   lines   of  typing  using 
a  typing   element    called  Elite ,    twelve-pitch,    on   an 
electric   typewriter.    The   niamber   of   characters   per 
line    is    about    fifty   —  which   is   perhaps    a  good, 
round  number  for  easy   legibility  in  this  material 


of  typewriting  done  on  my  well-worn  IBM  Selectric  12  pitcht  The  typing  has 
been  reduced  to  a  series  of  decreasing  sizes  expressed  as  percentages  of  the 
original,  because  that's  how  printers  and  cameramen  communicate:  100%, 
or  focus  1 00.0,  is  SS  or  same  size,  that  is,  original  size;  90% ,  or  "focus 
90.0,"  is  nine-tenths  of  the  original  size  or  10%  smaller;  and  so  on.  Use  this 
table  as  a  rough  guide.  Having  determined  what  looks  about  right  to  you, 
experiment  with  the  printout  from  your  own  machine,  but  don't  be 
surprised  if  the  effect  looks  very  different.  The  larger  the  sample  you  reduce 
down  to  the  size  you  guess  might  be  about  right,  the  safer  will  be  your 
final  decision. 

Remember  one  other  important  factor.  What  you  see  here  is  just  a  short 
snippet  of  five  lines.  Anybody  can  buckle  down  and  decipher  a  few  lines' 
worth  of  material,  no  matter  how  small  or  illegible.  But  extend  those  few 
lines  to  a  full  page,  and  you  have  a  totally  different  situation.  What  may  be 
acceptable,  or  even  attractive,  in  a  small  sample  may  well  turn  out  to  be  a 
repulsive  mass  as  a  full  page.  So  before  committing  yourself  to  a  whole 
issue's  worth  of  disasters,  get  a  reduction  of  a  full  page  to  see  if  it  works. 

'Ordinary  typewriters  have  either  pica  type  (10  characters  to  the  inch  or  10  pitch)  or 
elite  type  (12  characters  to  the  inch  or  12  pitch).  Obviously,  the  12-to-the-inch  characters 
appear  a  little  smaller.  Both  pica  and  elite  typewriters  have  the  same  spacing  vertically, 
yielding  6  lines  to  the  vertical  inch  (pica  is  equivalent  to  V,,  inch:  6  picas  per  inch).  Pica 
and  elite  type  differ  only  in  the  number  of  characters  they  pack  in  per  inch  horizontally. 
"Executive"  typewriters  have  variable  pitch:  to  get  an  accurate  count,  you  have  to  count 
all  the  characters  in  several  lines  and  calculate  the  average  per  inch.  Other  word  processors 
have  other  counts,  of  course. 


This  is  a  sample  of  several  lines  of  typing  using 
a  typing  element  called  Elite ,  twelve-pitch,  on  an 
electric  typewriter.  The  number  of  characters  per 
line  is  about  fifty  —  which  is  perhaps  a  good, 
round  number  for  easy  legibility  in  this  material 


80.0 

This    is   a   sample   of   several   lines    of  typing  using 
a  typing  element   called  Elite,    twelve-pitch,    on   an 
electric   typewriter.    The   nunber   of  characters   per 
line   is   about    fifty   —  which   is   perhaps    a  good, 
round  number   for  easy   legibility   in   this  material 


This    is   a  sample  of  several   lines   of  typing  using 
a  typing  element    called  Elite ,    twelve-pitch,   on   an 
electric   typewriter.    The   number  of  characters   per 
line   is   about    fifty  —  which   is  perhaps   a  good, 
round  number   for  easy   legibility   in  this  material 


78. 0 

This  is  a  sample  of  several  lines  of  typing  using 
a  typing  element  called  Elite ,  twelve-pitch,  on  an 
electric  typewriter.  The  number  of  characters  per 
line  is  about  fifty  —  which  is  perhaps  a  good, 
round  number  for  easy  legibility  in  this  material 


81i.o 

This  is  a  sample  of  several  lines  of  typing  using 
a  typing  element  called  Elite,  twelve-pitch,  on  an 
electric  typewriter.  The  nunber  of  characters  per 
line  is  about  fifty  —  which  is  perhaps  a  good, 
round  number  for  easy  legibility  in  this  material 


T6.0 


This  is  a  sample  of  several  lines  of  typing  using 
a  typing  element  called  Elite,  twelve-pitch,  on  an 
electric  typewriter.  The  nunber  of  characters  per 
line  is  about  fifty  —  which  is  perhaps  a  good, 
round  number  for  easy  legibility  in  this  material 


82.0 

This  is  a  sample  of  several  lines  of  typing  using 

a  typing  element  called  Elite,  twelve-pitch,  on  an 

'--°ctric  typewriter.  The  nunber  of  characters  per 

'^  is  about  fifty  —  which  is  perhaps  a  good, 

r.d  number  for  easy  legibility  in  this  material 


T^.O 


This  is  a  sample  of  several  lines  of  typing  using 
a  typing  element  called  Elite,  twelve-pitch,  on  an 
electric  typewriter.  The  nunber  of  characters  per 
line  is  about  fifty  —  which  is  perhaps  a  good, 
round  number  for  easy  legibility  in  this  material 


Enlarging  the  paste-up  to  accommodate  reduced  typewriting 


You  can  handle  the  production  one  of  two  ways  if  you  intend  to  reduce  your 
type  photographically:  (1)  Get  every  piece  of  type  reduced  to  the  desired 
size  before  you  begin  the  paste-up,  or  (2)  paste  up  the  original  typescript  on 
a  larger  sheet  of  paper,  which  is  later  reduced  as  a  whole. 

Doing  it  in  little  pieces  can  run  into  money  because  it  requires  a  freshly 
reduced  piece  to  be  inserted  every  time  you  need  to  make  a  change.  The 
second  option  requires  a  larger  dummy  sheet  to  paste  up  on.  How  much 
larger  should  it  be?  Obviously  it  must  be  larger  in  proportion  to  the 
reduction  you  desire.  Such  a  ratio  is  not  easy  to  calculate.  For  instance,  let's 
assume  that  you  want  to  reduce  your  type  to  90%  of  original  size,  and  that 
you  want  your  printed  page  to  measure  the  standard  8V2"  x  11".  How  much 
bigger  must  your  dummy  sheet  be  to  yield  this  result?  In  the  table  of 
reductions  you'll  discover  that  it  has  to  be  11%  bigger  than  8y2"  x  11" 
(focus  111.0)  and  that  it  must  therefore  measure  9%"  x  MVa".  (The 
dimensions  in  the  table  have  been  brought  to  the  nearest  X^th  of  an  inch — 
that's  tolerance  close  enough.) 


To  reduce 

typewriter  type 

to  this 

percentage  or  "focus" 

of  its 

original  size  . .  . 


...  the  page 
must  be  enlarged 
from  the 

original  S^^j"  x  11" 
by  this  percentage 
or  "focus".  .  . 


...  so  that 
it  measures 
this  size, 
to  the 
nearest  ^^-n" 


98%  or  98.0 

102.5%  or  102.5 

8"/„"x  111/4" 

96%  or  96.0 

104% 

or  104.0 

8%,"x11^," 

94%  or  94.0 

107% 

or  107.0 

9i/i6"x11V 

92%  or  92.0 

109% 

or  109.0 

91/4"  X  11%6" 

90%  or  90.0 

111% 

orlll.O 

9^/i6"x  121/4" 

88%  or  88.0 

113% 

or  113.0 

9Vx12iV 

86%  or  86.0 

116% 

or  116.0 

9Vx12V 

84%  or  84.0 

119% 

or  119.0 

10'\"x1V\" 

82%  or  82.0 

122% 

or  122.0 

IOVXI37/16" 

80%  or  80.0 

125% 

or  125.0 

10V  X  13V 

78%  or  78.0 

129% 

or  129.0 

10i5/,6"x14iV' 

76%  or  76.0 

132% 

or  132.0 

113/14"  x  141/2" 

74%  or  74.0 

135% 

or  135.0 

111/2"  X  14V 

The  problem  of  creating  emphasis  in  typewritten  copy 


Signaling  the  start  of  something  new  is  the  major  problem  in  pieces  that  are 
made  of  typewritten  copy.  Two  major  areas  need  exploring:  how  to 
separate  stories  with  space,  and  how  to  give  headlines,  or  their  equivalent, 
visibility  so  they  pop  out  from  their  background.  In  typeset  products  you  can 


use  boldness  and  blackness  in  display  type  such  as  headlines  to  create 
attention-getting  contrast.  In  typewritten  pieces,  you  are  limited  to  what  the 
keyboard  can  provide,  unless  you  add  extraneous  material. 

If  you  intend  to  run  lines  across  the  full  page — acceptable  in  a  letter, 
but  somewhat  dangerous  in  a  publication — hedge  your  bets  by  breaking 
your  typewritten  mass  into  units  that  look  smaller.  The  easiest  way  to  do  that 
is  to  insert  space  between  paragraphs:  a  full  line  if  the  machine  you  are 
using  cannot  deliver  a  half-line,  but  a  half-line  is  as  good  from  the  point  of 
view  of  apparent  breakup  as  a  full  line,  and  it  uses  up  less  paper.  It  might  be 
a  good  idea  to  accompany  this  extra  space  with  extra-deep  paragraph 
indents;  up  to,  perhaps,  a  quarter  of  the  way  into  the  line  is  not  excessive. 

The  problem  is  that  the  space  needed  between  stories  has  to  be  even 
more  generous  than  the  space  between  paragraphs,  if  each  story  is  to 
become  noticeable,  and  that  eats  up  your  paper  very  quickly. 

If  you  intend  running  two  columns  per  page,  you  don't  need  a  full  line 
of  space  between  the  paragraphs:  A  deep  indent  for  each  paragraph  ought  to 
be  enough.  Furthermore,  don't  leave  too  much  space  between  the  two 
columns  (the  alley)  because  the  ragged-right  setting  of  your  typewritten 
copy  adds  to  the  visual  impression  of  separation  between  columns.  Too  much 
emptiness  on  the  page  may  signal  the  wrong  interpretation  to  the  reader — 
not  enough  value  for  your  money,  perhaps?  So,  at  a  two-column-per-page 
or  narrower  setting,  tighten  up;  if  you  feel  the  need  to  open  up  spaces,  make 
the  paragraph  indents  deeper. 


How  to  make  headlines  using  your  typewriter 


You  need  a  combination  of  several  factors  in  order  to  make  your  headlines 
visible.  You  have  to  have  color — more  darkness,  more  ink  on  the  page.  You 
also  need  a  thicker  texture  of  type  or  greater  concentration  of  type.  And, 
most  of  all,  you  need  a  clearly  edged  area  of  space  within  which  the 
headline  is  to  be  perceived.  Such  white  space  need  not  be  large  or  excessive. 
It  does,  however,  need  to  be  clearly,  geometrically  demarcated,  so  that  it 
appears  as  a  deliberate  ploy.  One  important  factor  to  bear  in  mind:  If  you 
repeat  any  technique  mo.  3  than  once,  you  create  the  impression  of 
deliberateness.  So  repeat,  because  it  accumulates  in  the  reader's  subconscious 
and  adds  to  the  strength  and  personality  of  your  overall  product. 

These  two  lines  represent  the  end  of  the  text  piece  that  precedes  the 
start  of  a  new  story;  here  follows  the  new  headline... 


THIS   IS  AN   IRRESISTIBLY   INTERESTING  HEADLINE 


Type  your  headline  Here  is  the  Start  of  the  text,  which  the  reader  will   be  intrigued  into 

aiim  capitals  ma  single  ime,  reading  by  the  cleverness  of  the  language  in  the  headline.   Note  that 

underscoring  and  overscoring  It  flush  . .        ^  •       j.  ^    ^    t\        ■  ^.u       l.       jt-  •       j.  ^    ^^       u    i     ^j.        •  ^.i. 

with  the  last  character  on  the  right,  the  first  paragraph  fol  1  owi  ng  the  headline  is  typed  flush  left  without 

but  extending  the  rules  a  couple  of  ^"  indent;  that  IS  done  deliberately,   to  make  the  space  in  which 

characters  over  farther  to  the  left.  the  headline  is  Seen  geometric  and  clean. 

Two  lines  of  space  above  the  head  and  The  regular  paragraphing  indention  can  be  dramatically  deep, 

one  beneath  it  yield  the  requisite  as  in  this  example,  where  ten  spaces  were  left  for  the  eye  to  travel 

breakup  on  the  page.  i  ntO  . 

35 


THIS  IS  A  HEADLINE 


Here  starts  the  text  of  this  article  and  it  is 

TYPED  IN  ALL-CAPITALS indented  the  same  number  of  characters  from  the 

left  for  a  total  of  four  lines  of  type;  this  trick 
allows  the  space  within  which  the  headline  is 
placed  to  be  clearly  visible  and  pop  out  from  the  surrounding  text  matter. 
Here  is  another  line  of  dummy  type  to  illustrate  this  simple  idea.  Another  minor 
variation  might  be  the  following  illustration.  Allow  2  lines  of  space,  then... 


THIS  IS  ANOTHER  HEADLINE 
TYPED  IN  TWO  LINES  


Here  starts  the  text  of  the  next  article,  below 
the  overscore  that  extends  all  the  way  across  the 
page,  thus  separating  stories  from  each  other  most 
obviously  and  effectively  ..  .!Z^en  continue   as  above 


Break  every  headline  into  two  lines, 
type  them  all  in  capitals,  flush  left, 
with  no  extra  space  between  the 
lines.  Break  the  lines  according  to 
phrases  that  make  sense.  The  all-cap 
lines  give  the  maximum  ink  coverage 
except  for  one  other  possibility: 
underscoring.  By  adding  underscoring 
beneath  each  line,  as  well  as  above 
the  line  of  typing,  you  create  a  dark, 
triple-decker  sandwich.  But  if  you  go 


beyond  the  obvious  and  extend  the 
underscores  to  a  width  of,  say,  24 
characters,  you  add  a  graphic 
trademark  to  your  product  in  all 
your  headlines. 

Start  the  text  a  couple  of 
characters  farther  to  the  right  and 
indent  four  lines  the  same  way;  that 
will  then  leave  a  two-line  hole  below 
the  headline  that  acts  as  a  good 
contrast  to  the  display  type. 


This  is  the  end  of  a  normal  text  piece,  typed  at  a  fairly 
narrow  measure.  The  advantage  of  narrowness  is  that  it 
allows  the  left-hand  margin  of  the  page  to  be  much  wider  than 

THIS  IS  THE        is  customary,  and  thus  yields  a  useful  space  for  placement 

FIRST  LINE         of  the  display  headline  at  left. 

OF  A  NICE  LONG 

HEADLINE  THAT 

READS  INTO  THE  TEXT,  THUS:  Here  starts  the  text  of  the  succeeding  story.  Note 
that  there  are  two  lines  of  space  skipped  between  the  two 
stories.  The  headline  can  have  any  number  of  short,  stacked 
lines  in  the  left-hand  margin,  as  long  as  the  last  of  those 
lines  reads  into  the  first  line  of  the  text. 


Ultimately, 

_ there  are     

only  a  few 
simple   things 


Type  your  text  to  a  width  narrower 
than  the  full-page  maximum,  say, 
55  or  so  elite  characters.  Impose  the 
text  on  the  page  in  such  a  way  that 
as  much  space  is  available  in  the 
left-hand  margin  as  possible.  Insert 
your  headlines  into  that  space. 
However,  in  order  to  avoid  wasting 


space  between  stories,  skip  merely 
two  lines  there.  The  last  line  of  the 
headline  should  read  into  the  first 
line  of  the  new  story — perhaps  even 
bumping  into  the  text  a  little.  Then 
stack  the  rest  of  the  short  lines  of 
the  headline  flush  left  above  it; 
underscore  them  to  add  color. 


one  can  do  with  a   typewriter. 


Beyond  this,    individual  good 

sense  and  subjective  taste  take 

over.    It  boils  down  to  a  matter 

of  mixing  and  matching  gimmicks 

and  tricks   to  produce  the  best 

recipe  for  the  project  at  hand. 


Here  you 

thought 

you  were 

reading 

some  philosophy  and  it  is  nothing  of  the  sort . 
It  is  padding,  woffling,  humbug, 
twaddle,  prattle,  blather,  piffle. 

But  what  an  gobbledygook ,  gibberish,  rodomon- 

amusing,    tade,  balderdash,  inanity,  bushwal 

fresh 

technique  to  tuck  a  lot  of  stuff  in  a  page , 
and  make  each  unit  appear  self- 
contained  and  separate  from  the 
others  below  and  above  it.  The 
change  in  faces  is  a  great  help. 


Here's  a  solution  similar  to  one 
suggested  above  but  applied  to  a 
narrower  column  setting.  It  is 
particularly  useful  for  a  collection 
of  short  pieces,  and  may  even  feature 
an  extra  added  wrinkle:  varying 
typefaces — easy  to  achieve  on  some 
machines. 


necessary  details  if  you  read  the 
words, 


Here  is  another  technique  for  short     THE  NUMBER  OF  OPTIONS  FOR  DESIGNING  w  i  t  h  a 
headlines,  shown  in  a  two-column  typewriter  is  very  limited.  It  becomes 

page  format;  it  would  be  perfectly  3n  exercise  in  ingenuity  and  mathematics, 

possible  to  apply  this  to  a  one-column         (^^^  ^^^^^  to  indent,  where,  and  with  what. 
fllT!ll°!!SLt\^.  Hanging  the  heads  out  into  the  space 

at  left  is  a  piost  effective  means  of 
letting  our  attention  focus  on  the 
starts  of  things.  But  we  must  add  as 
much  color  (i.e.,  blackness)  to  those 
points  as  possible.  Hence  the  additional 

underscoring  and  oversco ring. 

HERE  IS  ANOTHER  SUCH  HEADLINE,  which  inter- 
rupts the  flow  of  the  text  very  ef- 
fectively. But  it  is  not  very  strong 
in  signaling  something  NEW.  A  line 
of  space  preceding  it  would  add  to 
i  ts  headl i  ne  qual i  ty  : 


THIS  STARTS  SOMETHING  DIFFERENT:  and  a  colon 
helps  the  idea  of  the  start  along... 
see  how  that  line  of  extra  space  makes 
the  headline  look  that  much  more  im- 
portant? 


How  to  make  sideheads  on  your  typewriter 


Sideheads  are  headlines  placed  at  the  left-hand  edge  of  the  page,  or  flush 
left  with  the  column,  or  they  may  run  into  the  text  at  left.  They  are,  however, 
secondary  headlines,  less  important  than  the  main  headline,  and  they  are 
therefore  categorized  as  subheads  in  terms  of  their  functional  ranking.  The 
definition  of  a  subhead  is  simply  that  it  is  a  headline  that  starts  a  subdivision 
of  the  text  and  helps  to  show  the  organization  of  the  material,  as  well  as 
break  up  the  grayness  of  the  type.  (In  newspaper  parlance,  a  subhead  is  a 
short  line  set  bold  in  the  typeface  of  the  body  copy,  usually  all  capitals, 
centered  on  the  column.  But  that  is  a  highly  specialized  usage  of  the  term.) 
Trying  to  gain  visibility  on  the  typewriter  is  not  easy.  As  with  headlines, 
it  is  necessary  to  create  such  visibility  by  manipulating  the  space  and  color, 
by  indenting,  and  by  general  composition,  as  well  as  by  using  the  underscore 
or  other  repeated  marks  of  which  the  machine  is  capable.  One  trap  to  avoid: 
the  habit  of  centering  the  line  on  the  column  or  page.  Such  a  placement 
doesn't  help  pop  the  words  out  clearly  enough,  unless  there  are  at  least  two 
lines  of  space  left  free  above  and  below  such  a  subhead.  Furthermore,  the 
white  space  left  over  after  the  subhead  is  placed  has  been  split  into  two 
small  pieces,  one  at  each  end  of  the  head — obviously,  or  the  words  wouldn't 
be  centered,  would  they?  Experience  shows  that  tiny  bits  of  white  space 
don't  carry  nearly  as  much  impact  as  larger  ones:  They  aren't  noticeable.  It  is 
much  wiser  to  combine  the  two  little  pieces  into  a  big  hunk  by  sliding  the 
subhead  over  to  the  left  (thus  turning  it  into  a  sidehead). 

Sidehead  words :       The  sidehead   is   indented  five  characters;   the 

underscore  beneath   it  is  extended  four  characters  beyond  the  end  of 
the  sidehead,  and  the  first  initial   of  the  text  is  typed  in  atop  the 
last  stroke  of  the  underscoring.   The  fact  that  this  block  of  text  is 
"justified"  at  right  is  purely  coincidental   and  unintentional. 

37 


Another  sidehead  version   This  is  a  variation  on  the  same  theme 

and  you  can  go  on  playing  this  way  ad  infinitum.  The  variations  that 

are  possible  are  almost  endless,  and  you  can  figure  out  the  one  that 
will  be  most  appropriate  to  your  content  and  format. 

This  is  copy  that  precedes  a  freestanding  sidehead.  Two  lines 
of  space  should  be  left  to  separate  such  a  sidehead  from  the 
last  line  of  the  copy  that  precedes  it,  like  this. 


THIS  IS  A  FREESTANDING  SIDEHEAD 

After  leaving  a  line  of  space,  the  text  continues  with  a  fresh 
direction  of  its  content.  The  sidehead  was  typed  flush  left. 
The  text  that  follows  it  was  typed  flush  left  also,  without 
indention,  to  make  the  space  within  which  the  sidehead  will  be 
viewed  as  crisp  and  clearly  defined  as  possible. 

However,  normal  paragraphing  is  encouraged  in  such  page 
formatting.  Here  a  four-space  indent  was  used  to  illustrate 
the  principle. 

What  follows  is  another  handling  of  a  sidehead:  After  leavii 
two  lines  of  space  as  separator,  the  sidehead  will  be  typed 
flush  left  and  in  al 1 -capi ta 1 s .  However,  the  wording  of  it 
will  be  the  start  of  a  sentence: 


A  LEAD-IN  SIDEHEAD  is  one  which  is  integral  with  the  text,  for 
it  is  made  of  the  first  words  of  a  fresh  paragraph.  Those  words 
must  be  carefully  chosen  to  be  important  and  interesting,  or 
the  subject  will  be  unworthy  of  the  technique! 


How  to  make  lists  on  your  typewriter 


in  typeset  type,  we  would  be  able  to  use  bullets,  triangles,  boldface 
numerals,  or  all  sorts  of  other  symbolic  spots  to  signal  a  series  of  material 
that's  different  from  its  surrounding  context.  On  the  typewriter,  we  are 
restricted  to  numerals,  space,  horizontal  rules,  and  punctuation  marks. 
Numerals  are  too  weak  to  stand  alone,  except  if  they  are  placed  on  the  page 
as  hanging  indents  ,  i.e.,  outside  the  left-hand  margin  of  the  list.  Here  are  a 
few  ways  of  handling  numerals. 


1 

1. 

1/ 

1) 

(1) 

1- 

1 

2 

2. 

2/ 

2) 

(2) 

2- 

2 

3 

3. 

3/ 

3) 

(3) 

3- 

3 

I4 

k. 

h/ 

h) 

ih) 

1+- 

h 

5 

5. 

5/ 

5) 

(5) 

5- 

L 

It  is  advisable  to  build  numerals  up  visually  with  a  little  embellishment. 
Here  is  a  good  example,  which  places  them  flush  left,  then  skips  four 
characters  before  starting  the  text.  To  formalize  the  arrangement,  you 
underscore  the  numerals,  the  four  empty  spaces,  and  the  initial  capital  of 
the  text.  That  adds  a  touch  of  color  and  creates  an  unexpected  surprise  to 
the  thus-defined  empty  space.  Placing  the  numerals  flush  left  retains  the 
precision  of  the  left-hand  margin  of  the  text,  makes  them  look  neater  by 
contrast  to  the  ragged  right-hand  edge,  and  is  also  very  easy  to  produce. 

The  problem  with  numbered  lists  (1,  2,  3,  4)  or  lettered  lists  (a,  b,  c,  d) 


is  that  they  can  be  misinterpreted  as  implying  ranking  of  some  kind.  To 
dispel  such  misapprehensions,  it  is  necessary  to  introduce  a  numbered  list 
with  an  explanatory  statement  such  as,  "Here  are  seven  examples  of 
such-and-such."  On  the  other  hand,  if  you  want  to  imply  a  logical  sequence, 
start  it  out  with  something  like   "The  Seven  Steps  to  Happiness." 


This   is   an   example  of  handling   lists  within   the  body  of  the   text. 
Although   it   is  not  too  vn'se  to  allow  full    lines  of  space  between   items 
normally,    it  helps   the   legibility  of  lists   to  do  so: 

1 On   the   sixth   character  start  the  first  word  of  the  copy;   then 

continue  flush   left   in   the  second  line.    Underscore  the  numeral,   the 
empty  spaces,   and  the  first  letter    of  the  text. 


2 Repeat  the  pattern  precisely 

to  emphasize  your  list  makeup. 


and  you  have  a  well-working   trick 


These  are   the   last  two   lines  of  text  preceding 
a   list.   Here  is  a  numbered  list: 


1.  The  first  item  is  shown  thus. 

2.  The  second  item  is  also  easily  accommodated. 
2.   The  third  item  gets   to  be   tricky  because 

it  needs  a  second  line. 

4.  The  fourth  item  is  nice  and  short  again. 

5.  How  many  more  do  we  have   to   type? 

And  this  is   the  start  of  the   text  again ^   set 
flush  left  without  an  indent^    to  help  to  define 
crisply  the  space  in  which   the   list  is  placed. 


these  two  lines  of  type  represent  the  last  two 
lines  of  the  text  that  precedes  the  list: 


Use  dash-dash  for  short,  one-line  items. 

Single  space  between  them. 

Double  space  above  and  below  the  list. 


This  represents  the  first  line  of  the  text  that 
fol lows  the  1 ist. . . 


0  Preceding  each  item  in  the  list,  just  tap 
the  lowercase  o^  on  your  keyboard. 

0  Depending  on  the  column  width  and  your  tastes, 
indent  or  type  flush  left. 

0  Double  space  between  entries. 

0  You'll  find  this  method  especially  suited  for 
entries  with  two  or  more  lines  and  multi- 
sentence  entries. 


a  somewhat  elementary  trick  to  play  to 
gain  variety  on  the  typewritten  page  is 
i 1 1 ust rated  here : 

Type  ten  characters'  worth  of 

underscoring  lines.  Then  start  the 
sentence  which  begins  the  new  paragraph. 
Complete  the  entire  paragraph,  and  when 
it  is  finished,  start  over. 

^Those  ten  lines  of  underscoring 

give  an  unusual  effect  in  the  texture 
of  the  column.  It  is  not  necessary  to 
leave  a  line  of  space  between  paragraphs 
when  using  this  trick.  The  ten-space 
indents  made  visible  by  the  underscore 
are  more  than  enough  as  signals. 
^Here  we  go  again... 


_here  is  a  variant  on  the  same  trick 
_used  in  reverse  pattern.  Instead  of 
_j)oking  the  starts  of  paragraphs  into 
_the  body  of  the  surrounding  text, 
_why  not 


Poke  the  headline  or  start  OUT  at  the  left- 

hand  margin  in  some  fashion  such  as 

^this  one?  Each  line  of  regular  type 

starts  with  six  characters'  worth  of 

^underscore.  New  paragraphs  do  not. 

This  is  a  new  paragraph  starting  out  at 

far  left  followed  by  the  normal  or 

abnormal  typing  method,  whichever 

way  you  wish  to  characterize  it... 

The  advfintage  of  this  trick  is  the  very 

clean  left-hand  edge  that  your  type 

columns  get 


Big  initials  added  to  typewritten  copy 


Inserting  an  initial  (a  large-sized  letter)  is  a  simple  way  to  achieve  visual 
accent  on  the  page,  even  when  there  is  no  strictly  functional  need  for  such  a 
signal.  In  theory,  it  is  unwise  to  accentuate  something  that  is  unworthy  of 
attention.  You  shouldn't  insert  a  symbol  that  is  interpreted  as  a  break  in 
sense  when  there  is  no  such  change  of  direction  to  the  flow  of  thoughts  in 
the  text.  Not  only  is  it  cheating  the  reader,  but  it  blunts  your  graphic 
weapons  for  the  times  they  will  be  used  correctly  for  their  intended  purpose. 
However,  it  would  be  foolish  to  pretend  that  such  misuse  does  not  exist,  or 
that  one  ought  not  to  bend  the  rules  a  bit  when  the  situation  warrants. 
Initials  are  innocuous  elements  in  that  they  have  no  inherent  meaning.  It  is  a 
far  greater  mistake  to  utilize  subheads  for  phony  breakup  because  they  are 
made  up  of  words,  and,  therefore,  they  need  to  say  something.  Initials  are 
just  bigger  letters,  and  it  is  hard  to  read  any  meaning  into  such  elements 
other  than  their  strategic  placement  in  the  flow  of  the  story. 

However,  assuming  that  your  conscience  is  clear  because  you  have 
solved  the  ethical  problems,  how  do  you  make  initials  in  typewritten  material 
when  the  typewriter  doesn't  provide  them?  You  leave  a  space  where  the 
initial  is  to  go,  and  when  the  typescript  is  finished,  you  add  the  initial  from 
any  of  the  transfer  lettering  sheets  available.  You  can  select  any  size  and  type 
style  you  can  possibly  dream  of,  and  for  an  initial  investment  (pun  intended) 
of  some  $8  you  will  have  enough  letters  to  do  a  dozen  articles — if  you  can 
dream  up  a  few  words  that  start  with  Q,  X,  and  Z!  Here  are  a  few  examples 
of  handling  initials  in  typewritten  copy.  The  words  in  the  copy  describe 
the  variations. 

With  the  exception  of  initials,  which  are  merely  a  decorative  accent  on 
the  page,  it  is  unwise  to  mix  typeset  type  with  typewriter  type.  Why? 
Because  the  two  are  not  compatible:  typeset  type  is  so  much  more 
sophisticated  a  material  than  typewritten  type  that  it  makes  the  latter  look 
crude  and  shoddy  by  comparison.  It  is  so  much  better  to  accept  the 
limitations  of  the  originating  machinery  and  work  within  them.  That 
simplifies  the  production  process  and  gives  the  product  a  genuine  simplicity 
that  is  the  first  step  toward  true  elegance. 

KN 
re    are    some   ideas   on   using   big  Wl^obody  would   accuse   these   solutions 

initials  added  to  the  typescript  after  of  brilliance  or  subtlety  or  even 

the  typing  has  been  completed.  They  are  originality.  They  are  completely 

simply  transfer  lettering  rubbed  on  from  obvious ,  once  you  begin  thinking 

sheets  purchased  from  the  art  supply  store   ^^fc^^^along  these  lines... 

in  an  incredible  variety  of  sizes  and         ^^ 

styles.  €W>  ou  see  how  interesting  this  could 

look  when  the  particular 
trick  is  repeated?  The  white  spaces 
surrounding  each  solution,  the  con- 


Jnother  way  to  do  the  same  sort  of  trast  of  color,  the  precision  of  the 

thing  is  this.  It  appears  just  ruled  underscore,  the  startling  in- 

about  irresistible  on  a  page.  congruity  of  the  initial  itscrlf,  all 

How  can  the  reader  NOT  be  be-  add  up  to  character-creation  with  the 

guiled  into  reading?  simplest  of  means. 


VT. 


hat   you  happen   to  be   looking                    •■•his    is   an   in-itial   cap   hanging 
at    is   American  Typewriter  type    from  at    left,    outside   the   left-hand  mar- 
sheet    LG2803   of   Letraset,    i48pt    caps.  gin,   whose   great   advantage   is   that 
I've   used  it  here    for  two   reasons.  it    adds    lots   of  white   space   all 

(1)  I  believe   in  using  appropriate  around,    obviously   at   the   expense 
faces  wherever  possible;  here  we   use  of  space  used  for  body   copy.    But  you 
typewriter   for  body   copy,   why  not   a  can't   have   it   both  ways:    If  you  want 
variant  thereof  for  the    display?  drama,   you've  got   to  give   something 

(2)  I  happen  to  have   lots   of  it  handy.  up  to  achieve   it.    Space   is   the 
Could  there  be   a  better  reason?  easiest    sacrifice  to  make. 


How  to  handle  standing  art  with  typewriters 


In  magazine  parlance  departments  are  sections  of  the  publication  that 
recur  in  each  issue  and  specialize  in  a  clearly  defined  area  of  interest. 
Subdivisions  of  such  departments  are  columns,  which  are  written  by  outside 
authorities  under  their  own  names.  All  such  departments  are  signaled  to  the 
reader  by  a  department  slug,  or  heading,  giving  the  title  of  the  section 
(usually  its  subject)  or  the  title  of  the  column  (usually  a  pun  with  the  name 
and  mug  shot  of  its  writer).  If  the  headings  are  embellished  typographically 
or  with  additional  artwork  that  is  repeated  every  time,  these  regularly  added 
features  are  called  standing  art.* 

What  is  the  purpose  of  this  digression,  where  we  are  dealing  with 
the  limited  technology  of  typewritten  pieces?  The  inescapable  fact  is  that 
in  such  pieces,  too,  the  need  for  the  equivalent  of  standing  art  has  to  be 
faced,  because  any  periodical,  whatever  its  nature,  is  likely  to  carry  recurrent 
elements  that  call  for  special  handling. 

Here,  to  prime  the  thinking  pump,  is  an  array  of  headings  easily 
replicated  on  the  typewriter.  They  look  colorful  and  perfectly  appropriate  to 
the  technology:  unlimited  repetition  or  patterning  of  a  limited  group  of 
symbols.  You  are  encouraged  to  dream  up  your  own. 


■ employee        benefits 

— _ 

mmimnmimrjimmmmmmmmmmmmmmminmmmmrammmmmminmmmmirm^ 

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvwwwwvwww^ 

j»»»jt»»»4e*»*»»»*»»»»»  LOGO  ***it****************  L*0*G*0 

""Pick  up  from  page  000  in  date  of  issue"  are  the  instructions  you  give  to  the  printer  to 
have  these  features  repeated. 


Using 

type 

effectively 


There  is  no  magic  about  typography.  It  is  a  discipline,  a  craft,  an  art  that 
requires  considerable  technical  knowledge  and  experience,  but  whose  basis 
is  common  sense.  The  best  typography  is  that  which  is  unseen.  Typography 
is  a  means  to  an  end:  having  the  message  read  and  absorbed.  The  faster, 
easier,  and  smoother  that  process  of  reading  can  be  made  to  be,  the  more 
effectively  the  typographic  skills  are  being  applied.  If  the  reader  becomes 
conscious  of  the  act  of  reading  or  of  the  type  itself,  then  the  typography  has 
not  been  used  to  good  effort,  for  it  interposes  itself  between  the  message 
and  the  reader. 

Your  aim  is  to  invite  the  reader  to  continue  reading  to  the  end  of  the 
piece.  The  character  of  the  product  you  are  working  on  will  determine  the 
mix  of  typographic  and  graphic  materials  you  use  on  the  page.  It  can  be 
said,  however,  that  simplicity,  discipline,  clarity  of  first  impression,  limiting 
the  number  of  typefaces  you  mix,  an  evenness  of  gray  color  of  the  type  as  a 
mass  printed  on  the  white  background,  and  a  coherent  structure  are  all 
elements  that  attract  and  retain  the  reader's  attention. 

The  typography  is  the  fabric  of  the  publication.  It  is  seen  on  all  the 
pages  and,  as  such,  it  is  a  fundamental  raw  material  you  can  control. 
Pictures,  charts,  headlines,  logos,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  embellishments  are 
additional  to  the  typography.  You  can  have  a  product  without  any  of  the 
aforementioned  elements,  but  you  cannot  publish  without  words,  and  that 
means  type. 


Tone-of-voice  typography 


if,  as  the  philosopher  Hegel  said,  "architecture  is  frozen  music,"  then 
typography  is  crystallized  speech.  Or  it  can  be.  If  you  listen  to  a  monotonous 
speaker,  you  have  to  concentrate  and  work  to  find  the  nuggets  of  useful 
information  that  may  be  hidden  in  that  droning,  dull  delivery.  Translating 
such  a  speech  into  type,  you  would  expect  to  see  it  as  an  unbroken  column 
of  gray  type — and  you  have  to  concentrate  and  work  to  find  those  nuggets 
hidden  on  that  droning,  dull  page  that  you're  looking  at. 

A  good  speaker  adds  loudness  for  emphasis,  or  allows  the  pitch  of  the 
voice  to  modulate  up  and  down  the  scale.  Loudness  translates  into  size  in 
type:  when  you  shout,  you  represent  such  shouting  by  large  letters.  Change 
of  pitch  can  be  translated  into  a  variety  of  boldness:  lightface  for  high  notes, 
extra-bold  for  low  ones.  This  analogy  could  be  carried  a  little  far.  It  is 
perfectly  logical,  however,  to  think  of  typography  as  being  nearly  as  flexible 
as  the  human  voice.  If  you  think  of  the  material  that  way,  you  will  be  able 
to  decide  on  typography  that  is  expressive  and  functionally  responsive  to 


foto-typography 

foto-typography 

foto-typography 

foto-typography 

foto-typography 


flfi 


To  To 


your  editorial  purpose.  The  whole  thing  boils  down  to  editorial  judgment: 
what  is  important  deserves  emphasis,  and  what  is  unimportant,  or 
background,  or  ordinary  can  be  played  down.  Precisely  how  you  do  that 
depends  on  the  specifics  of  the  subject,  its  context,  and  the  courage  of  your 
own  conviction.  Too  much  printed  matter  is  composed  the  way  it  is  because 
we  have  always  done  it  that  way.  We  seem  to  be  living  happily  in 
straitjackets  not  necessarily  of  our  own  making:  three  columns  per  page, 
with  two  columns  as  a  possible  variant  for  important  stuff.  "Ten  on  11  by 
12  pi"  ad  infinitum.  An  unquestioning  traditionalism  robs  us  of  our  capacity 
for  meaningful,  clear,  crisp,  obvious  communication.  Knowingly  or  not,  we 
tend  to  drone  on  and  on.  just  by  being  aware  of  tonalities  inherent  in 
typography,  we  can  break  out  of  that  monotony  and  excite  our  readers. 

How?  By  contrast  of  size  and  color.  What  is  important  ought  to  be  given 
prominence,  so  you  make  it  bigger  and  use  bolder  type.  Conversely,  you 
make  the  subservient  matter  smaller  than  expected,  or  set  it  in  a  lighter  face. 
You  mustn't  think  of  the  solution  as  being  isolated  or  limited  to  one  element; 
in  fact,  you  must  realize  that  any  one  element  on  the  page  reacts  with  all 
others.  Typography  is  just  like  using  colors:  you  can  pick  a  lovely  red  from  the 
swatch  book,  and  it  will  look  hideous  when  run  in  conjunction  with  the 
green,  although  by  itself  the  green  you  picked  was  also  a  pretty  color.  The 
secret  lies  in  grasping  the  relationship  between  the  two.  just  so  with  contrast 
in  type.  Those  contrasts  are  made  by  varying  size  and  color.  They  can  also 
be  made  by  varying  styles  of  type — for  example,  by  mixing  decorative  faces 
that  express  the  flavor  of  an  unusual  subject  with  workaday  type  for  regular 
features.  But  watch  out!  Too  much  spice  in  your  stew  will  ruin  the  taste. 

Today's  film-based  type  fonts  are  more  flexible  than  the  old  hot-metal 
ones  used  to  be.  Not  only  can  the  spacing  between  characters  be  controlled — 
so  much  so  that  some  equipment  allows  you  to  tighten  the  setting  (by 
kerning)  until  the  letters  touch  or  even  overlap — but  there  are  also  specially 
designed  ligatures  that  overcome  the  problem  of  ugly  gaps  between  some 
letter  forms.  Where  such  special  alternate  characters  are  not  available,  the 
phototypesetting  equipment  can  tuck  letters  into  each  other  so  that,  for 
instance,  an  o  tucks  under  the  roof  of  the  top  stroke  of  a  T,  which  makes  it 
neater  and  more  legible. 

We  are  also  fortunate  for  another  reason  today:  in  hot-metal  linotype 
days  a  font  of  type  (in  just  one  size,  but  encompassing  the  full  range  of  faces: 
roman,  italic,  and  boldface)  was  a  serious  investment  that  had  to  be 
amortized  over  a  long  period  of  usage.  Today's  typesetting  equipment  is 
far  more  sophisticated,  and  it  can  produce  its  output  from  a  master  font  that 
is  either  a  film  negative  or  an  electronic  imaging  source.  To  make  such 
master  negatives  is  infinitely  cheaper  than  it  used  to  be  to  produce  a  font  of 
linotype  matrices.  The  investment,  at  both  the  production  end  and  the  user 
end,  is  much  more  modest.  That  is  why  we  have  such  an  outpouring  of  new 
faces  available.  To  be  sure,  some  of  them  are  probably  not  going  to  last  very 
long,  but  others  will  prove  worthy  of  longevity.  Furthermore,  the  old, 
proven  faces  are  being  transferred  to  the  new  machinery,  and  their  range  of 
sizes  and  weights  are  being  enlarged  and  filled  out  so  that  the  usual  type- 
faces are  now  available  in  full  ranges  from  extra-light  to  extra-bold.  Many  of 
these  faces  have  added  condensed  and  extended  versions  so  that  a  single 


43 


Light     Light  Italic       Light  Condensed        Light  Condensed  Italic 

Book    Book  Italic       Book  Condensed      Book  Condensed  Italic 

Bold     Bold  Italic     Bold  Condensed    Bold  Condensed  Italic      Contour 

Ultra  Ultra  Italic  Ultra  Condensed  Ultra  Condensed  Italic   nc  ch  itt ni.am 

family  of  type  can  be  used  to  achieve  all  the  variety  a  publication  needs  in 
terms  of  its  graphic  expression  with  a  uniform  type  style.  Due  to  the 
comparative  cheapness  of  the  new  materials,  and  the  fact  that  they  can  be 
applied  to  most  typesetting  equipment,  you  are  no  longer  shackled  to  one 
supplier,  but  can  demand  your  particular  face  from  the  competition  as  well. 
The  freedom  and  riches  now  generally  available  allow  for  more  expressive 
and  thus  more  effective  use  of  type.  This  flexibility  must  be  used  for  worthy 
ends:  not  to  make  things  pretty,  but  to  make  things  work — to  tell  the  story. 


What  face  to  use? 


The  choice  of  typeface(s)  depends  on  the  nature  of  the  material  to  be  set. 
If  it  is  body  copy,  then  the  tried-and-true  standards  are  probably  the  safest 
and  best,  although  they  are  certainly  the  most  boring.  If  it  is  display  material, 
then  your  search  for  attention-getting,  startling  type  ought  to  take 
precedence  over  anything  else.  Yet  you  must  always  balance  the  specific 
needs  of  each  kind  of  type  with  the  overall  look  or  design  of  the  product 
as  a  whole — as  a  package.  So  your  choice  must  take  at  least  two  factors  into 
consideration:  the  specific  function  of  each  column,  department,  or  piece 
and  the  overall  character  of  the  publication. 

If  you  need  to  create  a  special  mood  with  your  typography,  one  that 
reflects  the  subject  matter,  you  can  choose  faces  that  have  such  special 
flavor.  They  are  available  as  display  type  more  readily  than  as  body  copy,  of 
course,  although  certain  allusions  or  impressions  can  be  subtly  suggested 
even  in  body-copy  typefaces.  A  good  catalog  of  what  is  available  from  your 
supplier,  as  well  as  in  do-it-yourself  lettering,  is  what  you  need  to  study  in 
order  to  make  your  selection. 


The  confusion  about  names  of  typefaces 


When  old  Baskerville,  Caslon,  Granjon,  Bodoni,  and  all  the  other  great  type 
designer/printers  designed  the  faces  that  bear  their  names,  they  gave  a 
distinctive  shape  to  each  character  of  the  alphabet.  Those  shapes  remained 
unaltered  over  the  years  because  they  were  physically  cut  from  metal 
punches — each  letter  separate.  There  was  little  reason  or  need  to  change  them 
until  the  industrial  and  communications  revolution  in  the  mid-nineteenth 
century.  Suddenly  a  variety  of  machines  came  into  use  that  supplanted 
letter-by-letter  handset  typography,  allowed  for  the  introduction  of  totally 
new  faces,  and  led  to  the  adaptation  of  old  ones  to  the  new  technology. 
The  great  original  faces  were,  therefore,  amended  to  fit  the  machines.  Then, 
when  phototypesetting  was  introduced  in  the  mid-twentieth  century,  to  be 
followed  by  the  computer  and  electronic  type-generating  equipment,  the 


problem  was  multiplied.  We  are  living  amid  an  explosion  of  typefaces.  Many 
of  them  are  fresh,  new,  and  contemporary.  Many  are  amendments  of  the 
good  old  traditional  ones.  Many  are  returns  to  the  true  originals.  That  is 
perfectly  logical.  Equally  logical  is  the  fact  that  the  producers  of  equipment 
(each  with  its  own  roster  of  typefaces)  compete    in  the  marketplace  in  terms 
of  the  mechanical  quality,  flexibility,  and  excellence  of  typographic  result 
they  offer.  What  is  maddening  to  the  user  of  type  is  that  each  manufacturer 
names  the  faces,  even  the  derivative  ones,  differently.  As  a  result,  the 
typeface  that  Miedinger  designed  and  named  Helvetica  is  obtainable  on 
Alpha  type  as  Claro,  on  Autologic  as  Newton,  on  Compugraphic  as  Helios, 
on  Star/Photon  as  Helvet  Star,  on  Graphic  Systems  as  Geneva,  on  Harris  as 
Vega,  on  Mergenthaler  as  the  Original  Helvetica,  and  on  Varityper  as 
Megaron.  They  are  all  a  tiny  bit  different,  but  all  unquestionably  the  same 
basic  design.  What  makes  life  even  more  difficult  is  that  many  typesetters 
list  the  face  by  its  original  name,  such  as  Helvetica,  in  their  catalogs,  but 
actually  give  you  the  version  that  their  particular  machinery  produces.  The 
fact  that  you  are  not  getting  the  Helvetica,  but  Megaron,  let's  say,  could  well 
make  a  difference  in  the  overall  color  of  the  type,  its  apparent  size,  and 
certainly  thecharacter  count*  per  line.  The  only  way  to  avoid  disaster  is  to 
work  only  with  information  that  your  supplier  gives  you  about  the  specific 
faces  available  at  that  shop.  The  National  Composition  Association,  1730 
North  Lynn  Street,  Arlington,  VA  22209,  is  the  clearinghouse  for  information 
on  all  aspects  of  typesetting,  and  will  be  glad  to  help. 


Preparing  copy  for  setting  in  type 


if  you  want  to  do  a  job  professionally,  efficiently,  and  economically,  the  first 
secret  is  to  be  meticulous  in  the  preparation  of  the  final  copy.  The  opportunity 
for  better  quality  at  lower  cost  is  found  in  the  handling  of  the  details.  It 
makes  no  difference  whether  the  copy  is  to  be  set  in  type  by  an  outside 
supplier,  or  by  someone  on  a  keyboard  in-house.  Whether  it  is  to  be  set  in 
hot  metal  or  by  any  of  the  cold-type  composers,  if  the  copy  is  carefully 
prepared,  it  will  cost  less  to  have  typeset. 

Type  the  manuscript  on  white  paper  8y2"  x  11"  double  spaced,  with 
generous  margins  on  both  sides.  Use  one  side  of  the  paper  only.  If  you 
generate  a  great  deal  of  copy  for  setting,  then  it  might  be  a  good  idea  to  use 
specially  prepared  copy  paper  that  can  be  bought  ready-made,  with  or 
without  carbon  copies  attached.  Each  sheet  tabulates  the  story  name,  author 
name,  publication  name,  issue  date,  and  manuscript  page  number  across  the 
top,  and  it  has  markings  for  character  count  across  the  page  as  well  as  line 
count  down  the  page,  like  the  one  shown  here. 

The  usefulness  of  such  forms  is  that  they  force  you  to  be  organized, 
whereas  blank  paper  requires  you  to  remember  to  do  all  that  labeling.  And, 
clearly,  organization  of  your  work  is  of  the  essence.  It  is  so  easy  to  lose  bits 
of  paper  if  they  aren't  identified,  and  then  you  have  to  waste  time  trying 
to  recognize  the  material  by  its  sense — and  it  is  remarkable  how  fast 
one  forgets. 

•Average  number  of  characters  or  letters  in  a  given  length  of  line.  See  page  33. 


The  manuscript  need  not  be  typed  faultlessly;  its  beauty  will  win  you 
no  awards.  Its  legibility  will  get  you  thanks  from  the  typesetter,  and  that  is 
all  that  matters.  So  some  erasures,  crossings  out,  and  the  like  are  fine,  so 
long  as  they  are  clearly  done.  It  is  wise  to  make  these  notations  in  ink, 
which  will  pick  up  on  the  xerographic  copy  that  you  make  for  yourself  as  a 
backup  and  checking  copy  before  you  give  the  original  to  the  typesetter. 
It  is  wise  to  avoid  splitting  words  at  ends  of  lines  to  avoid  confusing  the 
typesetter,  who  then  has  to  decide  whether  such  hyphenation  is  supposed 
to  be  included  (set  in  type)  or  whether  it  is  merely  a  word  break  in  the 
manuscript.  It  is  also  wise  to  make  all  your  setting  instructions  as  close  to 
the  place  they  occur  in  the  text  as  possible,  so  the  setter  sees  them  during 
the  process  of  scanning  the  copy  line  by  line.  Such  instructions  are  given  in 
the  standard  proofreader's  marks,  although  they  are  not  being  used  for 
corrections.  These  marks  consist  of  two  sets  of  signals:  graphic  signs  and 
verbal  abbreviations  to  explain  them.  The  verbal  part  is  written  in  the  margin 
at  the  same  level  as  the  line  or  word  referred  to.  The  graphic  signs  are 
drawn  on  the  line  of  text  itself.   Instructions  are  circled. 


TO  INDICATE 

4^ 


MARK  WORDS  WITH 

4^ 


WRITE  IN  MARGIN 

4^ 


CAPITALS 

word 

(^^ 

LOWERCASE  (one  letter) 

wo^d 

cc^ 

LOWERCASE  (several  letters) 

/ORD 

cri> 

ITALICS 

word 

(^ 

BOLDFACE 

word 

® 

PARAGRAPH 

/First  words 

-t^  ^  m 

INSERT  (caret) 

Missin. letter 

9r 

ADD  BETWEEN  LINES 

^ 

^  v.??iek  K^o<U 

MOVE  LEFT  OR  RIGHT 

73  mmraminm                      ssssssd 
nnnnnnn             ttttttt 

(^jilei,^-. 

CENTER 

1]  vwvl 

Cce^-i^ 

TRANSPOSE 

(^second  ^first^ 

(& 

ADD  SPACE 

addfepace              add^pace 

^JM^ 

CLOSE 

clo^se    up 

^close^"-^ 

FIX  AND  CLOSE  UP 

imp;|)rove  sps^lling 

3-.L 

SPELL  OUT 

the(N|)  subway 

(%eSS^  J 

DELETE 

unwanted  word  ■werd-'^ 

~       r^'" 

When  you  want  to  kill  some  words,  indicate  such  deletion  with  a  single  neat, 
horizontal  line  (but  leave  the  words  legible  in  case  you  decide  to  reinstate 
them  later,  in  which  case  all  you  will  need  to  do  is  put  dots  under  them, 
which  cancels  out  [stets]  the  cancellation). 

THIS  WORD  IS  Ner  NOT  NEEDED. 
THIS  WORD  IS  ff©¥^OT  NEEDED. 
THIS  WORD  IS  NOT  NOT  NEEDED. 


PUNCTUATION 


COMMA             ^ 

PERIOD       0 

COLON        0 

SEMICOLON    (T) 

ONE  EM  DASH 

HYPHEN      = 

SLASH                  / 

QUOTE  {y 

APOSTROPHE    ^ 

All  the  manuscript  pages  must  be  numbered  consecutively.  It  is  perfectly 
logical  to  add  pages  to  an  existing  set  and  number  them  a,  b,  and  so  on 
(3a,  3b,  if  they  follow  page  3). 

You  should  try  to  cut  down  the  typesetter's  effort  to  a  minimum  in 
order  to  save  money.  You  must  cross-reference  insertions  clearly  if  you 
cannot  squeeze  them  onto  the  original  typescript.  Add  a  separate  piece  of 
paper,  numbered  page  27a,  let's  say,  and  mark  the  insertion  "Copy  A, 
insert  on  page  27."  Then,  on  page  27  itself,  where  the  insert  belongs,  write 
in  the  margin  in  large  visible  letters — perhaps  even  in  red — "Insert  Copy  A 
from  page  27a."  Never  staple  or  tape  a  slip  of  paper  to  the  original 
manuscript  and  hope  that  the  typesetter  will  figure  out  where  it  belongs. 
He  can't,  even  if  that  slip  of  paper  has  not  fallen  off. 

It  is  a  good  idea  to  separate  your  headlines  from  the  body  copy  if  they 
are  to  be  set  in  a  different  typeface.  It  makes  the  process  of  typesetting 
much  easier  and  faster.  Equally,  captions  could  well  be  bunched  together  for 
setting  separately. 


Specifying  type:  how  to  instruct  the  typesetter 

Your  instructions  must  be  clear  (you  must  know  what  you  want,  and  say  so), 
complete  (leaving  nothing  for  the  typesetter  to  decide),  and  concise 
(expressed  in  the  standard  manner  understood  by  typesetters).  It  goes 
without  saying  that  the  instructions  should  be  legible  and  intelligible. 

Instructing  the  typesetter  is  also  called  marking  the  copy  or  spacing  the 
type  (short  for  specifying).  The  following  information  is  what  the  typesetter 
needs  to  know,  although  most  of  it  is  not  actually  written  down  because  in 
practice  many  assumptions  are  made  based  on  what  is  considered  to  be 
normal.  (That  normalness,  then,  goes  without  saying.) 

1.  Type  size  (in  points,  or  for  large  headlines,  in  the  measurement  of 
the  height  of  the  capital  letter  in  inches  or  even  centimeters). 


KX 


2.  Type  family  (by  name — for  example,  Times  Roman,  Helvetica). 

3.  Branch  of  type  family  (light,  medium,  semi-bold,  bold,  ultra-bold, 
extra-bold,  as  far  as  weight  is  concerned;  condensed,  extended,  extra-wide, 
as  far  as  width  of  the  lettering  is  concerned). 

4.  Posture  of  the  letters  (roman,  italic,  oblique,  slanted). 

5.  Kind  of  letters  (upper-  and  lowercase,  all  capitals,  lowercase,  small 
caps,  swash  letters,  special  characters). 

6.  Leading,  also  sometimes  spelled  ledding  (space  between  the  lines). 

Swash  characters  7.   Column  Structure  (justified  or  unjustified,  or  ragged  right  or 

ragged  left). 

8.  Line  length  (width  of  the  column  or  measure). 

9.  Kerning  (for  larger  type  sizes,  it  is  possible  to  control  the  spacing 
between  characters,  to  make  it  tight,  normal  or  loose.  Each  typesetting 
machine  expresses  its  capabilities  in  a  different  set  of  units,  so  you  need  to 
determine  the  language  or  measurement  system  first). 

10.  Indentation  (in  ems,  which  are  indicated  by  squares;  one  em  space 
is  normal)  for  first  or  any  other  lines  of  a  paragraph. 

11.  Special  handling  of  punctuation  (regular  or  hanging,  i.e.,  quotation 
marks  or  other  punctuation  to  be  placed  outside  the  margin  of  the  type). 

12.  Spacing  between  words  (French  spacing,  in  which  the  same  space 
follows  a  period  as  is  placed  between  words;  or  regular  spacing,  which 
is  wider). 

This  list  is  not  meant  to  frighten  you.  It  merely  illustrates  the  possible 
complexities  of  typesetting.  The  spec  you  will  probably  be  using  consists  of 
a  shorthand  that  looks  like  this: 


%T7^^,r 


This  tells  the  typesetter  that  you  want  to  use  a  10-point  type  size  with 
2  points  of  leading  or  space  between  the  lines  (that's  what  the  12  is).  The 
slash  is  short  for  the  words  "set  on."  TR  is  short  for  Times  Roman,  and  since 
it  is  not  followed  by  any  other  word,  it  implies  the  normal  roman  version  of 
a  regular  weight.  The  X  means  "across"  or  "line  length"  or  measure.    And 
15  means  15  picas;  again,  since  there  is  no  other  instruction,  justified  or 
flush-right  setting  is  implied.  The  paragraph  indents  will  be  one  em  if  you 
don't  ask  for  anything  unusual.  This  will  be  the  type  specification  that  the 
setter  will  follow  for  as  many  pages  of  manuscript  as  do  not  bear  a  different 
specification.  So  all  you  need  do  is  write  it  once  at  the  start.  If  your 
manuscript  has  headlines  or  subheads  interrupting  it,  you  mark  those 
individually;  the  setter  will  know  to  return  to  the  basic  body  copy 
specification  without  your  repeating  it  after  each  such  interruption. 


Frequently  used  terms  are  abbreviated: 


gr 

stands  for  boldface 

Bodoni 

U^l.c 

stands  for  upper-    and  lowercase 

y.c. 

stands  for  uppercase  or  capitals 

BODONI 

Ct^^ 

calls  for  setting  in  capitals  only 

c  %.  ^^  - 

calls  for  setting  in  lowercase  with  the  ini 
words  capitalized 

tial  letters  of  important 

stands  for  small  capitals  (known  as  small  caps;  specially  made 
14  PT.  Bodoni  small  caps      S-CXps         characters  looking  like  capitals,  but  whose  height  is  that  of  the 

"x-height"  of  the  lowercase) 

crS"^  calls  for  setting  in  capitals  with  small  capitals 

stands  for  the  Latin  word  for  "let  it  stand"  and  you  use  it  every 
<cJ^eJr'  time  you  want  to  return  to  whatever  the  condition  was  before 

you  started  to  tamper  with  it,  or  the  status  quo  ante. 


Type  measurement 


When  handling  type,  the  printer  doesn't  work  with  inches  and  feet,  or  even 
centimeters,  but  with  picas  and  points.  (Where  the  metric  system  is  used, 
Instead  of  picas  and  points  they  use  ciceros  and  points.  In  fact,  some 
machinery  is  calibrated  in  the  metric  system,  and  that  is  probably  in  all  our 
futures.)  For  all  practical  purposes,  however,  you  can  concentrate  on  the 
traditional  picas  and  points.  To  give  you  a  sense  of  scale,  there  are  six  picas 
to  the  inch,  and  each  pica  is  broken  down  into  twelve  points.  There  are, 
therefore,  72  points  to  the  inch.  Do  remember  this. 


Ipt. 

= 

3<2  pica 

o 

'^ 

inch 

6  pts. 

= 

V2  pica 

o 

Vm 

inch 

12  pts. 

- 

1  pica 

% 

inch 

72  pts. 

= 

6  picas 

o 

1  i 

ich 

%  inch  =  5  picas, 


Vi  inch  =  4  picas, 


%  inch  =  3  picas. 


V2  inch  =  3  picas, 


V*  inch  =  1  pica,    6  points 
Vg  inch  =  0  picas,  9  points 


1    i 


WW  .1. 


2  WW  w 


WW  WW 


inches 


I 


in.jimii|iii|i{i{iwiiiiiiliiiii|i|i!i|i|i|ili|m^^  1  1 

0    I    2   3  4    5   6   7   8  9  10  1112  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30 
picas  and  points 


Htl1'p1ff|'ii!flf!t|flflflflfpi11'|1!lt|!lflflflT!'lflf|fl 

1234567891 I234|{;B9{i234^6;89| 1234567891 I23<56189! 1234^6) 

0         12         3        4         5 
centimeters 


'B9il2345f 

6 


,6789|  123456789! I23456789J 123456/891 123456789 

7         8         9        10        11 


'ffPflfifl'I'I'IflT 

234567e9|l234567 


abcdefghijklmnopqt 
9  ABCDEFGHIJKL^ 

abcdefghijklmnop 

10  ABCDEFGHIJKL 

abcdefghijklmnc 

11  ABCDEFGHIJK 

abcdefghijklmr 

12  ABCDEFGHIJ 

abcdefghijkln 
14  ABCDEFGH 

abcdefghij 
a  ABCDEFC 

abcdefg 
.ABCDE 

abcdef 
oABCE 

abcde 
ABC 


DkSD 


-x-height 


-descender 


Type  size  is  measured  in  points.  That  measurement  is  taken  from  the 
top  of  the  ascender  to  the  bottom  of  the  descender.  The  sizes  for  type  have 
traditionally  been  as  follows:  51/2,  6,  7,  8,  9, 10, 12, 14, 18,  24,  30,  36,  42, 
48,  60,  72,  and  96  points.  Sizes  in  between  were  not  made,  because  each  set 
of  molds  for  making  them  was  an  expensive  investment  and  such  minor 
differences  in  sizing  would  not  be  economically  feasible.  Now  some  of 
the  new  phototypesetting  technology  allows  all  sizes  to  be  set  in  half-point 
increments.  But  there  is  a  trap  here:  the  design  of  the  face  itself.  The  type 
may,  indeed,  measure  precisely  what  it  says,  36  points  for  example.  Yet  it 
may  look  enormous  in  one  kind  of  typeface  and  tiny  in  another.  Why  is  that? 
It  is  due  to  the  proportion  of  the  x-height  to  the  ascenders  and  descenders. 


abcdefghij  klm 


Garamond 


X 


abcdefghij  klm 


Century 


X 


abcdefghiikim 


Helvetica 


X 


If  the  x-height  is  very  large  (as  it  tends  to  be  in  contemporary  typeface 
design)  then  the  ascenders  and  descenders  are  short,  and  the  type  appears 
very  large.  That  makes  it  easier  to  read.  If  the  x-height  is  very  small,  then  the 
type,  in  bulk,  looks  small  and  is  harder  to  read.  Often,  you  need  to  use  a 
larger  size  for  easy  legibility.  By  enlarging  the  x-height,  you  can  save  space 
overall  because  you  can  use  a  smaller  type  size,  and  thereby  squeeze  more 
words  into  the  same  space  on  your  page  without  sacrificing  legibility.  You 
must,  therefore,  always  know  what  typeface  you  are  talking  about  when  you 
say  "Ten-point  type  is  easy  to  read,  so  let's  use  that  size  for  our  body  copy." 
Ten-point  Baskerville  is  tiny,  yet  10-point  Helvetica  is  enormous,  and 
10-point  Times  Roman  is  just  right;  yet  they  all  measure  10  points  from  the 
top  of  their  ascender  to  the  bottom  of  their  descender. 


Close  upon  the  hour  of  noon  the  whoi 
need  of  the  as-yet-undreamed-of  telegr 
from  house  to  house,  with  little  less  than  i 
for  that  afternoon;  the  town  would  ha\ 

A  gory  knife  had  been  found  close  to  ti 
as  belonging  to  Muff  Potter — so  the  stor 
Potter  washing  himself  in  the  "branch"  a 
at  once  sneaked  off — suspicious  circum 
Potter.  It  was  also  said  that  the  town  had 
in  the  matter  of  sifting  evidence  and  arri 


Close  upon  the  hour  of  noon  the  w 
news.  No  need  of  the  as-yet-undre< 
from  group  to  group,  from  house  tc 
course,  the  schoolmaster  gave  holid 
strangely  of  him  if  he  had  not. 

A  gory  knife  had  been  found  close 
by  somebody  as  belonging  to  Muff  P( 
citizen  had  come  upon  Potter  washi 
in  the  morning,  and  that  Potter  had  at 
cially  the  washing,  which  was  not  ; 


Close  upon  the  hour  of  noon  the  whole 
need  of  the  as-yet-undreamed-of  telegrap 
house  to  house,  with  little  less  than  teleg 
that  afternoon;  the  town  would  have  th( 

A  gory  knife  had  been  found  close  to  tl 
as  belonging  to  Muff  Potter — so  the  stor 
Potter  washing  himself  in  the  "branch"  i 
at  once  sneaked  off — suspicious  circums 
Potter.  It  was  also  said  that  the  town  had  I 
in  the  matter  of  sifting  evidence  and  arri\ 


While  discussing  measurement  systems,  it  is  essential  that  you  also 
understand  an  aspect  of  the  printer's  measurement  that  seems  a  difficult 
concept  to  absorb:  quadding.  The  em  quad  is  a  measurement  that  is  the 
square  of  the  type's  height  in  points,  which  sounds  complicated,  but  is  very 

l/VldKirig     ^Making     B Making  mechanicals 

simple.  If  you  are  using  12-point  type,  the  em  quad  is  12  points  high  (the 
same  height  as  the  type)  and  12  points  wide.  If  your  type  is  10  points  high, 
then  the  em  quad  would  measure  10  points  high  by  10  points  wide.  Eight 
points?  Eight  by  eight,  and  so  on. 


Ilnescapable 


A  2-em  quad  retains  its  original  height,  but  doubles  the  width:  a  2-em 
quad  in  12-point  type  measures  the  same  old  12  points  high,  but  is  24  points 
wide.  A  3-em  quad  in  12-point  type  would  be  12  points  high  and  36 
points  wide. 

|Make  publications 

Half  an  em  quad  is  called  an  en  quad.  In  the  12-point  type  that  we  have 
used  before,  it  would  indeed  measure  12  points  high,  but  only  6  points  wide. 

Since  it  is  easy  to  confuse  the  difference  between  em  and  en,  printers 
refer  to  em  quads  as  muts  and  en  quads  as  nuts.  You  need  to  know  about 
muts  and  nuts  because  paragraph  indenting  is  so  described  (indenting  one 
em  is  the  norm)  and  because  horizontal  spacing  within  type  is  so 
designated.  The  handwritten  sign  for  em  isLJand  for  en  is0. 

Inches.  Yes,  printers  do  indeed  measure  with  inches  also.  They  use  them 
to  size  pictures  and  to  specify  paper  size  or  column-inches  of  type  (see 
below).  There  is  great  difficulty  when  picas  and  inches  have  to  be  coordinated 
to  fit  a  page  together.  The  confusion  will  only  be  resolved  when  our  present 
patched-up,  antiquated,  traditional  system  is  replaced  by  computerized, 
full-page  make-up  systems  that  will  appear  on  the  terminal  at  our  desk. 

Column-inches  are  used  to  express  the  length  of  a  text  once  it  has  been 
set  in  type.  One  speaks  of  a  "6-inch  story,"  meaning  that  the  text  measures 
6  inches  in  length.  In  technical  newspaper  parlance,  the  column-inch  is  a 
much  more  specific  concept,  referring  to  space  one  inch  deep  and  a  column 
of  type  wide.  But  in  terms  of  advertising  space  sales,  it  means  14  inches  of 
agate  (i.e.,  5y2  point)  type,  which  happen  to  add  up  to  precisely  one  inch. 
You  can  buy  column-inch  space  in  a  newspaper  to  fill  it  with  any  size  of  type 
you  wish.  On  the  other  hand,  if  you  buy  a  "line,"  you  get  the  space  that  one 
agate  line  would  take  up:  14  of  them  per  inch.  So  far,  so  easy:  The  problem 
is  that  the  width  of  the  column  can  vary! 

51 


Copyfitting:  how  much  space  will  the  words  take  in  type? 


Step  one 


,^. 

;:::v:::::;:,;r,:  _:::::::;:: 

:„ 

Copyfitting  or  copycasting  or  casting  off  is  the  process  of  determining  the 
space  that  typewritten  copy  will  occupy  when  it  is  turned  into  typeset  type. 
You  have  to  know  that  in  order  to  avoid  having  too  much,  in  which  case  you 
have  to  cut;  or  too  little,  in  which  case  you  have  to  add.  Cutting  hurts — and 
adding  usually  means  padding.  Both  are  a  waste  of  money.  So  you  have  to  bite 
the  bullet,  and  add  up  your  total  number  of  characters  and  divide  them  in  a 
proportion  that  will  correspond  to  the  type  you'll  be  using  or  the  space  you 
need  to  fit  into.  This  may  sound  frightfully  complicated  and  even  looks  it,  but 
it  is  child's  play  once  you  master  the  two  simple  steps  involved. 

:  counting  up  your  words 
No  matter  whether  you  are  typing  the  copy  on  an  ancient  Royal  or  the  latest 
electric  self-correcting  typewriter,  or  even  using  electronic  magic  on  the 
word  processor,  the  first  thing  you've  got  to  know  is  how  much  you've 
written.  You  can  either  count  the  words  (which  is  boring  and  inaccurate)  and 
multiply  by  5  to  get  the  total  number  of  characters,  or  you  can  count  the 
characters  (which  is  even  more  boring,  but  a  bit  more  accurate).*  You  don't 
have  to  sit  there  counting  each  one  individually.  Instead,  you  count  the 
average  number  per  line. 

Let's  assume  that  you're  not  using  an  executive  typewriter  (which  gives 
you  characters  of  different  widths  just  like  type  does),  but  an  ordinary  one 
that  makes  each  letter  the  same  width:  pica  gives  you  10  characters  per  line, 
elite  gives  you  12.  That  regularity  makes  the  calculation  much  easier.  Take  a 
sheet  of  your  manuscript  and  draw  a  light  pencil  line  down  the  right-hand 
edge  of  the  typewritten  area.  Draw  it  so  that  it  hits  the  ends  of  most  of  the 
lines,  with  the  exception  of  the  short  lines  at  the  ends  of  paragraphs.  That 
means  that  there  will  be  some  lines  that  spill  over  to  the  right  beyond  the 
pencil  line,  because  typewritten  copy  is  typed  ragged  right.  (We'll  come 
to  those  bits  in  a  moment.)  Now,  count  the  number  of  characters  between 
the  left-hand  margin  and  your  vertical  pencil  line.  Obviously,  each  empty 
space,  as  well  as  each  punctuation  mark,  must  be  counted  as  though  it  was 
a  full  character.  Let's  assume  that  your  total  number  is  50  characters  per  line 
(cpl).  Now  add  up  the  number  of  lines  on  your  paper:  If  you've  been  typing 
double-spaced  (which  is  the  norm)  you'll  probably  have  25.  Each  short  line 
at  the  end  of  a  paragraph  should  be  counted  as  a  full  line  because  you'll  be 
getting  an  equivalent  paragraph  in  the  future  typeset  version  and  relative 
numbers  seem  to  work  out  just  about  the  same. 

Now,  multiply  the  number  of  characters  by  the  number  of  lines 
(50  X  25)  and  you've  practically  finished.  You  now  know  that  there  are  1,250 
characters  on  the  sheet  of  manuscript,  plus  those  excess  bits  to  the  right  of 
your  vertical  pencil  line.  Those  you  have  to  guesstimate,  unless  you  want  to 
count  them  individually.  You'll  probably  find  that  four  or  five  such  pokeouts 
add  up  to  a  full  line.  But  if  you  want  to  be  superaccurate  and  do  it  quickly, 

*Although  that  sounds  similar  to  the  way  greenhorn  cowpokes  were  taught  to  count  cattle 
(adding  up  the  legs  and  dividing  by  four),  it  makes  sense  in  copy  because  dividing  the 
characters  by  five  gives  you  an  accurate  word  count.  Fortunately,  typed  characters  don't 
move  like  cows'  legs  do. 


measure  with  a  ruler;  add  up  the  inches  of  pokeouts  and  multiply  that  total 
by  10  if  your  typewriter  is  a  pica,  or  by  12  if  it  is  an  elite,  and  add  that  figure 
to  your  1,250. 

If  your  typewriter  is  an  executive,  which  varies  the  width  of 
characters,  you  will  have  another  step  to  go  through:  you'll  have  to  find  the 
average  number  of  characters  per  line  by  counting  ten  normal  lines  and 
dividing  that  total  number  by  ten.  That's  the  figure  you  multiply  by  the 
number  of  lines  on  the  page.  The  likelihood  that  there  will  be  very  long 
pokeouts  at  the  right  is  rather  small,  since  such  adjusting  typewriters  are 
intended  to  prevent  such  unevenness.  So  you  can  probably  ignore  the 
excess  on  the  right,  and  your  averaging  of  ten  lines  ought  to  give  you  an 
accurate  enough  answer. 

Now  multiply  the  number  of  characters  per  page  by  the  number  of 
pages  in  the  typescript,  and  you  will  have  a  complete  character  count. 

Blank  spaces  between  paragraphs  should,  of  course,  be  subtracted  from 
the  total  number  of  typed  lines,  as  should  any  deleted  paragraphs.  Insertions, 
short  lines,  and  other  exceptions  to  the  average  must  be  calculated  separately 
and  added  to  the  total.  You  want  to  be  accurate — within  reason. 

For  regular  periodical  production,  you'll  probably  know  how  many 
characters  you  need  for  a  given  typeset  line  under  normal  conditions.  If  you 
know  that,  you  can  take  a  shortcut  that  bypasses  all  this  calculation.  You  can 
mark  your  copy  paper  (on  which  you  do  your  typing)  with  the  average 
character  count,  and  then  type  within  it;  then  all  you  need  do  is  to  count  the 
number  of  lines  that  you  have  written.  You  need  not  print  the  average 
character  count  on  the  paper.  You  can  set  your  typewriting  machine  itself  to 
that  width.  The  trouble  with  doing  that,  though,  is  that  one  tends  to  forget  to 
reset  it  until  it  is  too  late.  If  your  typeset  lines  are  narrow,  you  can  save 
typing  paper  by  writing  two  typeset  lines'  worth  of  text  on  one  single  line  of 
typewritten  copy  (80  characters  per  line  or  thereabouts).  Then,  in  your  quick 
calculation,  you  count  the  number  of  lines  and  multiply  by  two  to  convert 
the  total  to  typeset  estimates. 


Step  two:  determining  the  ratio  of  space  to  type 

Commonsense  observation  1.  You  can  accommodate  more  characters  in  a 
longer  line  than  you  can  in  a  shorter  line  of  type.  From  this  brilliant  insight 
grows  the  next,  equally  scintillating  .  .  . 

Commonsense  observation  2.  For  a  given  amount  of  copy,  you'll  need  fewer 
long  lines  than  you  will  short  lines.  So  far,  so  good,  but  the  plot  thickens. 

Commonsense  observation  3.  If  you  use  type  that  is  small,  you  can  fit  in 
more  characters  than  you  could  if  you  were  using  bigger  type  in  a  line  of 
equal  length.  And  further: 

Commonsense  observation  4.  The  spacing  between  your  lines  is  flexible,  so 
you  can  space  them  out  or  tighten  them  up  pretty  much  at  will. 

That  all  adds  up  to  a  truth  that  can  be  a  little  frightening:  Typography  is 
extremely  flexible.  So,  where  do  you  start? 

You  make  two  assumptions,  see  if  they  work,  and  if  they  don't — you 
make  different  assumptions.  In  other  words,  you  reach  a  workable  result  by 


10        12        14        16        18       20       22 


trial  and  error.  You  can  also,  of  course,  blindly  copy  what  has  been  done 
before,  "because  that's  the  way  we've  always  done  it,"  or  "because  the 

printer  said  to  do  it  that  way,"  or  "because does  it  that  way"  (fill  in 

the  name  of  your  favorite  publication). 

The  two  assumptions  are:  (1)  the  size  of  the  typeface  you'll  be  using 
and  (2)  the  length  of  your  lines,  i.e.,  the  width  of  your  columns. 

You  need  to  know  the  size  of  the  type  in  order  to  find  the  character 
count  that  it  yields,  and  you  need  to  know  the  line  length  so  you  can  figure 
out  how  many  characters  your  line  will  accommodate. 

There  are  two  common  ways  to  arrive  at  a  character  count  for  typeset 
type.  (1)  You  can  use  a  table  that  is  usually  printed  on  the  same  sheet  as  the 
showing  or  specimen  of  the  typeface  you  intend  to  use.  Normally,  the  table 
is  read  vertically  for  type  sizes  and  horizontally  for  pica  widths.  You  start 


33  40  47  63  60  66  73 

29  35  41  46  62  58  64 

25  30  35  40  45  51  66 

23  28  32  37  42  47  51       with  the  appropriate  type  size  and  work  your  way  across  to  the  column 


25       29       33        38       42 
23       27        31        36       39 


Characters  per  pica 


£11      3  16 


nearest  to  your  expected  pica  width.  That  number  is  what  you  need.  (2)  You 
20     23     26     30     33     36       Can  find  out  the  number  of  characters  per  pica.  To  do  this,  you  use  a  table 
that  shows  how  many  characters  of  a  particular  typeface  can  be  expected  to 
average  in  a  pica,  ranked  by  ascending  order  of  size.  You  find  the  number 
that  corresponds  to  the  type  size  you  plan  to  use,  multiply  by  the  expected 
number  of  picas  in  your  line,  and  there  is  your  character  count  per  line. 
Armed  with  the  character  count,  you  can  then  quickly  compute  the  number 
of  lines  of  typeset  type  your  text  might  require.  You  already  know  the 
number  of  characters  your  original  text  contains  from  your  previous  foray 
into  Higher  Mathematics  (see  page  52 ).  You  divide  the  total  number  of 
characters  by  the  characters  per  line  that  you  just  found  out,  and  that  gives 
you  the  number  of  lines  of  type  to  that  particular  length  you  can  expect. 

Now  a  new  factor  must  come  into  the  equation:  the  problem  of  leading 
or  spacing  between  lines.  Its  effect  needs  to  be  known  so  that  you  can 
determine  whether  your  type-size/line-length  ratio  is  going  to  work  in  terms 
of  the  space  you  have  at  your  disposal.  You  have  already  assumed  the  type 
size — let's  say  12  point.  If  it  is  set  solid,  it  will  be  12  on  12  (written  as  12/12), 
which  means  there  will  be  no  extra  leading  or  space  placed  between  the 
lines,  and  you'll  be  able  to  measure  12  points  from  the  bottom  of  one  line 
of  type  to  the  bottom  of  the  next.  The  bottom  of  the  type,  by  the  way,  is 
appropriately  called  the  baseline  (see  diagram  on  page  59).  If  you  add  a 
point  of  space,  so  that  your  spec  says  12/13,  every  line  of  type  will  then 
measure  13  points  from  the  baseline  of  the  first  to  the  baseline  of  the 
second.  If  you  add  two  points  of  space,  it  will  measure  14  points,  and  so  on. 
If  there  are  a  lot  of  lines,  that  little  sliver  of  space  can  accumulate  to  quite  a 
sizable  chunk.  Anyway:  you  multiply  the  number  of  lines  that  you  just 
calculated  by  this  factor  of  points.  Let's  say  you'd  like  to  use  12/14.  You 
take  your  lines,  multiply  by  14,  and  get  a  number  in  points  (because  that 
14  is  14  points).  You  must  now  turn  that  number  into  picas  by  dividing  by  12, 
because  there  are  12  points  to  the  pica.  Your  result  is  the  depth  in  picas  that 
your  text  will  need.  If  you  remember  what  was  said  about  column-inches 
(see  page  51 ),  then  you  will  know  that  you  can  convert  your  picas  into 
column-inches  simply  by  dividing  by  six,  because  there  are  six  picas  to 
the  inch. 

You  now  have  knowledge  of  the  size  of  type,  the  column  width,  and  the 


length  of  your  text  block.  Does  it  fit?  Probably  not.  So  you  change  things. 
If  it  is  too  long,  you  can  reduce  the  type  size,  or  you  can  take  out  that  extra 
spacing  between  the  lines.  Your  column  widths — or  line  lengths — are  likely 
to  remain  constant,  because  you  are  probably  working  to  predetermined 
page  patterns  anyway.  But  if  you  have  freedom  there  too,  you  can 
reproportion  the  entire  thing  by  altering  the  column  width  (however,  if 
you  do  change  only  that  one  element,  the  overall  area  required  by  the  type 
will  remain  the  same  as  it  was  before,  except  that  it  will  have  a  flatter  shape). 

If  you  are  not  filling  the  space  you  need  to,  you  can  add  to  the  spacing 
between  the  lines,  or  enlarge  the  type  size,  or  both.  Increasing  the  leading 
between  lines  is  easy  to  calculate — everything  remains  the  same  as  it  was 
before,  except  for  that  point  or  two  of  space  that  you  add,  which  you  just 
multiply  by  the  number  of  lines  involved.  Reducing  or  increasing  the  type 
size  requires  recalculation  of  everything  from  scratch. 

One  other  option  open  to  you,  of  course,  is  to  pick  another  typeface 
that  is  either  more  condensed  (yielding  more  characters  per  pica  and  per 
line)  so  that  you  can  squeeze  more  into  the  space  at  your  disposal,  or  one 
that  is  wider  or  more  extended  so  that  it  eats  up  any  excess  space  you  have. 

It  is  absolutely  essential  that  the  numbers  you  get  from  the  table 
correspond  to  the  typeface  that  your  typesetter  will  use  on  his  equipment. 
There  is  considerable  variation  in  the  many  versions  of  the  same-named  face 
that  are  available  from  the  different  manufacturers. 

If  your  total  comes  out  with  a  fraction  at  the  end,  remember  to  go  up  to 
the  next  full  number  when  lines  are  being  counted.  There  is  no  such  thing 
as  one-sixth  of  a  line  sliced  horizontally!  But,  if  your  computation  comes  out 
with  45.7  characters  per  line,  for  instance,  then  that  0.7  character  is  not  very 
significant;  you  can  ignore  it,  unless  your  copy  is  very  long.  In  such 
situations,  ?!!  those  minor  fractions  can  total  enough  to  affect  the  overall 
accuracy  of  your  result. 


Copyfitting  large-size  type 


Here  again  trial  and  error  are  your  best  friends.  In  single-line  headlines, 
calculating  the  average  number  of  characters,  a  method  that  tends  to  work 
out  so  conveniently  in  body  copy,  cannot  be  depended  upon  for  accuracy. 
Rather,  you  have  to  be  more  conscious  of  the  width  of  the  specific  letters 
that  you  are  using.  Obviously,  if  you  have  a  lot  of  m's  and  w's,  you'll  be  able 
to  squeeze  fewer  characters  into  the  same  line  length  than  if  your  copy 
consists  of  lots  of  i's,  j's,  and  I's.  Furthermore,  if  you  have  lots  of  capital 
letters,  you  also  reduce  your  total  character  count,  because  they  occupy 
about  50%  more  space  than  lowercase  letters  do.  As  a  result,  the  character 
counts  in  typeface  specimen  tables  are  to  be  seen  merely  as  rough  averages. 
A  much  safer  method  is  to  find  a  real  headline  set  in  the  face  and  size  and  to 
the  length  that  you  intend  to  use,  and  type  it  on  your  paper  as  a  guide.  Then 
you  compose  your  own  headline  to  a  corresponding  length  beneath  it,  and, 
barring  hailstorms,  earthquakes,  or  tidal  waves,  your  headline  should  fit. 
If  that  looks  unnecessarily  complicated,  there  is  good  reason  for  it:  you'll 
probably  want  to  rewrite  your  headline  several  times  to  make  it  fit  and 


55 


Proofs 


polish  the  wording  just  so.  It  is  easier  to  do  it  in  a  tabulated  fashion  on  your 
typewriter  than  to  have  to  count  each  line  separately,  character  by  character, 
as  you  write  and  change  them. 


The  typesetter  or  compositor  will  return  your  marked  manuscript  together 
with  a  set  of  proofs  of  the  type  as  set.  If  you  are  using  word-processing 
equipment,  the  equivalent  of  such  proofs  is  a  read-out  on  the  screen,  or 
hard-copy  paper  printout.  The  exact  form  and  finish  depend  on  the 
equipment  you  are  using.  But  let  us  deal  here  with  the  traditional  way  of 
doing  things:  whether  they  are  true  galley  proofs  pulled  from  hot  metal  that 
is  placed  on  a  tray  called  a  galley,  or  whether  they  are  xerographic  copies  of 
type  that  has  been  set  on  photographic  typesetting  equipment  makes  no 
difference.  You  usually  receive  two  sets  of  proofs  for  reading,  one  set  or  two 
of  reproduction  proofs,  and  a  set  of  proofs  on  translucent  paper.  The 
reproduction  or  repro  proofs  and  the  translucent  ones  may  not  accompany 
the  first  set  of  proofs  you  receive,  because  you  may  want  to  make  changes 
in  the  copy  before  the  final  proofs  are  pulled.  The  sequence  of  proofs  you 
will  get  should  be  decided  on  before  the  typesetting  is  started. 

In  any  case,  one  set  of  reader's  proofs  becomes  your  file  copy  and 
should  be  so  marked,  dated,  and  kept  safe.  The  other  copy  is  proofread  and 
marked  for  corrections  and  changes,  as  well  as  any  additions  and  deletions 
that  you  may  want,  and  is  returned  to  the  typesetter.  You  should  duplicate 
those  marks  on  your  own  master  set,  so  that  you  keep  the  stages  of 
production  carefully  on  hand  for  future  reference:  the  original  manuscript;  the 
first  proof  showing  needed  changes;  and  later  the  final  proof  on  which  the 
changes  are  reflected.  There  may  be  several  sets  of  such  changes — but  you 
ought  to  avoid  them  if  you  possibly  can,  because  any  changes  you  make  are 
charged  as  author's  alterations  (AAs)  at  a  higher  rate,  and  you  would  be 
amazed  at  how  expensive  they  are.  Mistakes  made  by  the  typesetter  should 
,.~^  ^  not,  of  course,  be  charged  to  the  customer,  and  when  you  come  across  them, 

\f_...-'  be  sure  to  mark  them  with  a  PE  in  the  margin,  for  printer's  error.  Be  sure  to 

make  a  record  of  any  changes  that  you  may  be  calling  in  on  the  telephone. 

Proofs  are  slugged  at  the  top  of  each  sheet  with  the  name  of  the 
publication,  a  job  or  envelope  number,  and  a  galley  number,  as  well  as  any 
other  information  that  the  typesetter  may  need  to  have.  When  phoning  in 
corrections  or  changes,  always  refer  to  the  job  and  galley  number  so  that 
your  typesetter  can  find  what  you're  referring  to  quickly. 

Reproduction  proofs  are  fragile,  sacred,  expensive,  and  final.  Avoid 
marking  or  damaging  them  in  any  way.  Protect  them.  Keep  them  in  the 
envelope  in  which  they  came  and  stash  them  away  from  harm's  way  in 
a  predetermined  place  where  they  can  be  stored  until  the  final 
mechanical-making  step.  If  you  must  mark  notes  on  them,  do  so  with 
nonreproducing  blue  pencil  or  ball-point  pen  available  at  the  art  supply 
shop.  Never  fold  or  crease  them,  and  protect  them  from  being  scratched 
by  paper  clips  or  staples.  No  rubber  bands  or  sticky  tape  should  be  anywhere 
near  them  either. 


Proofs  pulled  from  hot  metal  smudge  easily  until  the  ink  has  had  a 
chance  to  dry  and  harden  thoroughly.  It  is  possible  to  protect  them  by 
spraying  them  with  a  light  coat  of  plastic  or  fixative.  Proofs  from  photoset 
equipment  may  not  be  well  developed  and  may  literally  turn  green  around 
the  edges.  They  also  smell  of  chemicals.  The  paper  they  are  printed  on  is 
razor  sharp,  so  keep  some  Band-Aids  handy.  They  don't  smudge,  but  their 
surface  can  be  scratched  quite  easily.  Hot  metal  proofs  automatically  come 
in  three  copies;  photoset  proofs  can  come  singly  and  you  have  to  fight  to 
get  dupes — even  at  extra  cost. 


Body  copy  or  text  faces 


Avoid  fashionable  faces  for  body  copy  (the  text);  their  fashionableness  is 
based  on  exaggeration  in  some  aspect  of  their  design.  That  very  exaggeration, 
be  it  in  shape,  weight,  detailing,  angle,  or  whatever,  is  detrimental  to  reading 
type  in  bulk — even  though  it  may  be  just  right  for  a  paragraph  or  two  of 
advertising  copy  or  for  eyecatching  display  use.  it  is  also  wise  to  avoid  faces 
that  are  very  contrasty  in  their  own  line  weight.  Such  strong  contrasts  create 
a  dazzling  effect  that  tires  the  eye.  That  dazzling  can  also  be  created  by 
using  shiny  ink  on  shiny  paper.  So  be  aware  of  the  physical  materials  of  your 
publication  and  respond  to  them.  Some  faces  are  better  on  dull  stock  than 
on  shiny  stock;  others  are  better  on  newsprint  than  on  offset  stock.  The  rule 
of  thumb  is  that  the  better  the  stock  and  the  printing,  the  finer  and  lighter 
your  typeface  can  be;  conversely,  the  closer  to  newsprint  you  get,  the 
bolder,  stronger,  rounder,  and  more  open  your  type  ought  to  be,  in  order  to 
print  and  read  well. 
This  'n  general,  body-copy  type  size  seems  to  be  growing.  Editors  complain 

body-copy     that  their  readership  is  getting  older,  and  therefore  requires  a  larger-size 
type  size     type  for  ease  of  reading.  Ten  points  seems  to  be  the  magic  number. 

is  10  point      Remember  that  it  is  not  just  the  size  that  matters;  the  typeface  you  use 

makes  all  the  difference.  Some  appear  smaller  than  others  although  they  may 
all  measure  10  points. 

If  you  are  going  to  be  setting  type  that  is  to  be  reversed  or  dropped  out 
(white  type  on  a  black  background,  or  in  a  picture)  or  that  is  to  be  surprinted 
on  a  tint  or  a  color,  then  you  should  pick  a  special  typeface.  It  should  be  a 
little  larger  than  the  type  size  you  use  for  normal  body  copy,  and  it  should 
be  a  little  bolder,  too.  That  will  ensure  its  integrity  when  it  is  printed — the 
thin  lines  won't  close  up  with  ink,  and  the  type  will  not  be  as  difficult  to 
read.  Also,  the  face  you  pick  ought  to  have  simple  shapes  and  even  strokes 
rather  than  fancy  ones  and  heavy  contrast  of  thicks  and  thins.  A  sans  serif 
would  probably  be  the  safest. 


Sans  serif  vs.  serif  faces  for  body  copy 


TT: 


This  is  a  cause  for  violent  arguments  from  partisans  of  both  sides,  all  of 
whom  hold  certain  truths  to  be  self-evident.  Such  truths  are  only  partially 
evident,  though:  it  all  depends.  The  typefaces  we  were  taught  to  read  are 
the  ones  we  are  used  to  and  that  we  find  most  congenial  and  comfortable. 
In  the  United  States,  those  are  the  basic  serif  faces.  In  Europe,  sans  serif  is 
the  rule  rather  than  the  exception. 

Serifs  do,  indeed,  aid  the  eye  to  move  along  from  left  to  right,  and  to 
Sans  serif  that  extent  they  are  a  helpful  visual  characteristic  in  type.  Tests  have 

unequivocally  proved,  however,  that  a  sans  serif  face  set  in  a  narrow  enough 
measure  (up  to  eight  words  per  line  or  so)  is  as  legible  as  a  serif  face.  For 
longer  lines,  serif  faces  are  probably  the  wiser  choice.  One  advantage  of 
serif  faces  is  that  there  are  many  more  of  them  to  choose  from,  and  this 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTU    ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 
WXYZ   1234567890    Baskervine  WXYZ  1234567890       Bodom 

abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTU    ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 

WXYZ     1234567890      Bookman  WXYZ     1234567890  Caledonia 

abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV    ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTU 

WXYZ     1234567  89()  Caslon  WXYZ     1234567890         century  Expanded 

abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 


ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 

WXYZ     1234567890  Caramond 

abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 
WXYZ   1234567890    Meiior 
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 


ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 

WXYZ     1234567890  Coudy  Oldstyle 

abcdefghij  klmnopqrstuvwxyz 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPORSTUV 
WXYZ  1234567890      Memphis 
abcdefghij  klmnopqrstuvwxyz 


ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 
WXYZ  1234567890       Paiatmo 
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 


ABCDEFGHUKLMNOPQRSTU 

WXYZ     1234567890     Times  Roman 

abcdefghij  klmnopqrstuvwxyz 


Counter  ^ 

o  r  Bowl 

Baseline 


range  of  choices  makes  it  easier  to  create  a  special  or  unique  character  for 
your  publication.  There  are  also  new  versions  of  traditional  serif  faces  that 
have  large  x-heights  and  large  counters  to  prevent  filling  up  in  the  printing 
processes.  The  advantage  of  such  modern  faces  is  that  you  can  use  them  in  a 
smaller  size  than  you  could  the  original  versions,  yet  fit  more  material  in  the 
same  space.  (For  the  reason  why,  see  page  50.)  Besides,  they  also  give  your 
product  a  contemporary  flavor. 

The  faces  produced  by  International  Typeface  Corporation  are 
obtainable  on  most  manufacturers'  typesetting  equipment  as  well  as  on 
do-it-yourself  sheets  under  license,  and  are  the  leaders  in  the  industry.  Look 
for  the  ITC  preceding  the  name  of  the  face — for  example,  ITC  Garamond. 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 

WXV^Z      1234567890  ITCCaramond 

abcdefghijklmnopqrstu\^^yz 


ABCDEFGHUKLMNOPQRSTUV 

WXYZ  1234567890      AvantCarde 

abcdefghijklmnopqrsluvw)^ 


ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 
WXYZ    1234567890    cmsans 
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 


ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 
WXYZ  1234567890    Futura 
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 

WXYZ     1234567890       Helvetica 

abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 


ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 
WXYZ    12345B7890    Eurostue 
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV 
WXYZ   1234567890    umvers 
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz 


Sans  serif  is  useful  for  technical  materials;  for  boxed  sidebar  material  as 
a  contrast  to  the  body  copy;  for  captions  to  pictures;  for  display,  especially 
in  a  bold  version;  the  list  continues. 

It  is  virtually  impossible  to  make  an  arbitrary  list  of  advantages  or 
disadvantages.  You  have  to  follow  your  preference.  The  better  educated  that 
preference  and  the  more  knowledge  and  awareness  you  have,  the  wiser  your 
choices  are  likely  to  be — and  the  more  courage  you  will  have  to  do  it 
differently,  your  way.  There  are  no  such  things  as  rules  in  typography — there 
are  only  personal  interpretations  of  the  purpose,  objectives,  material,  and 
communication  value  of  typography,  which  can  be  manipulated  the  way  you 
think  it  ought  to  be.  That's  what  makes  it  so  much  fun. 


59 


Line  spacing,  leading,  interlinear  spacing 


Each  line  of  type  is  set  on  the  machine  by  itself.  In  days  of  hot  metal,  each 
line  was,  in  fact,  a  hunk  of  metal — a  full  line's  worth  of  words  cast  in  lead. 
In  photographically  or  electronically  generated  typography,  we  have  given 
up  the  lead.  Nevertheless,  we  should  continue  thinking  of  each  line  as  a 
separate  entity.  In  the  past,  you  would  insert  a  sliver  of  metal  between  the 
lines  to  separate  or  "open  them  up,"  and  that  used  to  be  called  leading 
pronounced  ledding).  It  used  to  be  added  in  increments  of  a  full  point. 
With  modern  machinery,  you  can  space  out  the  lines  by  adding  not  only  full 
points,  but  also  much  smaller  increments.  Even  negative  or  tightened  spacing 
is  feasible  on  the  new  sophisticated  equipment. 

If  you  are  using  bold  type,  then  extra  spacing  between  the  lines  will 
help  pull  the  eye  from  left  to  right.  If  you  are  using  a  typeface  that  has 
serifs,  then  you  need  less  leading  because  the  serifs  help  the  eye  move 
across  the  page. 

If  you  are  using  sans  serif  type,  then  extra  space  is  advisable  because  of 
the  lack  of  serifs.  And  because  the  x-height  of  the  type  is  probably  quite 
large  to  start  with,  there's  little  space  to  pull  the  eye  from  left  to  right. 

The  life  of  Giambattista  Bodoni   has  The  life  of  Giambattista  Bodoni  has  The  life  of  Giambattista  Bodoni   has 

often  been  told.  He  was  born  at  Saluz  often  been  told.  He  was  born  at  Saluz  often  been  told.  He  was  born  at  Saluz 

zo,  Piedmont,  in  the  year  1740,  the  s  ^o,  Piedmont,  in  the  year  1740,  the  s  ^o.  Piedmont,  in  the  year  1740,  the  s 

on  of  a  printer.  He  had  the  good  fortu  ^n  of  a  printer.  He  had  the  good  fortu  -_'    *  -  nrlnter    He  had  the  ^ood  fort^ 

ne  of  being  apprenticed  to  the  polygl  „^     ,  ul^-.^^  =.„„..^„*;^^h  *^*h^  «^iw<,i  printer.  Me  naa  tne  gooa  Tortu 

«*  «.!«*!«cr«ffil^^  «f  tho  roncrrocTatin  H  "^  of  being  apprenticed  to  the  polygl  ^^  ^^  ^^j^^  apprenticed  to  the  polygl 


ot  printing  office  of  the  Congregatio  d 
e  Propaganda  Fide  at  Ro 

re  that  he  learned  not  oniy  xne  crarx    >-  ■  ■-!-"&"■—"  ■  —  -»  .,«...^.  ..  ^-^  ..v.  p.-nr.ao'anHa 

which  was  his  father's,  but  also  was  in    re  that  he  learned  not  only  the  craft  e  r-ropaganoa         ^        ^        ,     ^. 

troduced  into  the  art  and  secrets  of  c    which  was  his  father's,  but  also  was  in  ""e  that  he  learned  not  only  the  craft 

utting  punches  as  soon  as  his  talent  a    troduced  into  the  art  and  secrets  of  c  which  was  his  father's,  but  also  was  in 

utting  punches  as  soon  as  his  talent  a  troduced  into  the  art  and  secrets  of  c 
utting  punches  as  soon  as  his  talent  a 

The  life  of  Giambattista  Bodoni  has  often  be    The  life  of  Giambattista  Bodoni  has  often  be  The  life  of  Giambattista  Bodoni  has  often  be 


e  Propaganda  Fide  at  Rome.  It  was  he    °V''.'J™^r.HrpTHo^\^R«  °"^if  !f.*<!°ho    »*  printing  office  of  the  Congregatio  d 

ot  on  V  the  craft    e  Propaganda  Fide  at  Rome.  It  was  he        J;  °   .    _..       ^_  ,^  . 

^.u.VJt. „...,":"    .^  *h^*  h^  i^oK„^H  „^*  «„iw  *i,^  ^.=«    e  Propaganda  Fide  at  Rome,  it  was  he 


1  told.  He  was  born 
n  the  year  1740,  the  : 
the  good  fortune  of  being  apprenticed 
polyglot  printing  office  of  the  Congregati 
Propaganda  Fide  at  Rome.  It  was  here  that  h 
^  learned  not  only  the  craft  which  was  his  fat 


)ld.  He  was  born  a 
n  the  year  1740.  the  s 


Saluzzo,  Piedmont,  i 
printer.  He  had 


Piedmont, 
prmter.  He  had 

"®    the  good  fortune  of  being  apprenticed 

polyglot  printing  office  of  the  Congregatio 
Propaganda  Fide  at  Rome.  It  was  here  thai 


her's  but  also  was  introduced  into  the  art  and     ®  'earned  not  only  the  craft  which  was  his  fat 
secrets  of  cutting  punches  as  soon  as  his  tale     ^^r's  but  also  was  introduced 
secrets  of  cutting  punches  as 


en  told.  He  was  born  at  Saluzzo,  Piedmont,  i 
n  the  year  1740,  the  son  of  a  printer.  He  had 
the  good  fortune  of  being  apprenticed  to  the 
polyglot  printing  office  of  the  Congregatio  de 
Propaganda  Fide  at  Rome.  It  was  here  that  h 
e  learned  not  only  the  craft  which  was  his  fat 
his  tale  her's  but  also  was  introduced  into  the  art  and 
secrets  of  cutting  punches  as  soon  as  his  tale 


The  effect  of  leading  on  comfort  and 
ease  of  reading  illustrated  in  two 
examples:  Franklin  Gothic  (top)  and 
Bookman — both  set  in  8  point. 
The  left-hand  samples  are  set  solid, 
the  center  ones  leaded  one  point,  the 
ones  at  right  leaded  two  points. 
Incidentally,  these  showings  are  cut 
from  an  old  hot-metal  typesetting 
sample  book. 


If  you  are  using  type  that  has  a  small  x-height,  then  there  is  probably 
enough  white  area  in  the  space  between  the  ascenders  and  the  descenders 
to  act  as  horizontal  slivers  of  space,  and  you  may  need  no  extra  leading. 

If  you  are  setting  your  type  in  a  fairly  narrow  column  (up  to  eight  words 
on  average)  and  are  using  a  normal  typeface,  it  is  probably  unnecessary  to 
add  extra  spacing,  and  you  would  set  solid.  That  is  the  type's  natural  state, 
as  its  designer  intended  it  to  be  used,  and  it  will  read  well.  It  will  also  help 
you  get  more  text  into  your  available  space  (which,  in  turn,  might  well  allow 
you  to  make  your  pictures  bigger  or  even  add  a  bit  of  white  space  for  the 
eye  to  rest  in.  Wouldn't  that  be  an  advantage?). 

You  can  increase  interlinear  spacing  in  order  to  lighten  the  effect  of  the 
typography.  By  adding  more  "air"  the  overall  color  is  made  to  appear  paler. 

And,  of  course,  you  must  add  space  between  the  lines  if  your  lines  are 
very  long. 


How  long  should  the  lines  be? 


If  your  lines  are  too  long  for  comfortable  reading,  you  can  help  overcome 
that  problem  by  adding  leading  between  them;  the  longer  the  line  the  more 
leading  you  need.  The  sliver  of  white  space  between  the  lines  helps  to  keep 
the  eye  running  along  from  left  to  right  without  distractions  from  the  words 
in  the  lines  above  or  below  it  and,  even  more  importantly,  it  then  guides  the 
eye  back  to  the  beginning  of  the  next  line  at  the  left.  Without  such  help,  it 
would  be  too  easy  to  skip  a  line  or  reread  the  same  line.  You  have  to  have  a 
clear  connection  between  the  end  of  one  line  at  the  right  and  the  start  of 
a  new  line  at  the  left,  or  else. 

This  is  ten  on  thineen  trump  roman  regular  by  twenty- 
two  and  a  half  picas.  It  is  ten  point  trump  three  points 
leaded  and  set  on  a  slug  that  is  twenty-two  and  a  half 
picas  wide,  which  is  the  correct  measure  for  two  column 

This  is  ten  on  fourteen  trump  roman  by  thirty-five  picas.  It  is  ten  point  trump  leaded 
four  points  and  set  to  a  width  of  thirty-five  picas,  which  spans  three  of  the  columns  in  a 
four-column  page  arrangement.  The  character  count  at  this  width  is  eighty-seven  charac- 
ters per  line,  and  there  are  a  maximum  of  fifty-six  lines  in  every  column.  This  is  ten 

This  is  ten  point  trump  leaded  five  points  between  the  lines  and  expressed  as  ten  on  fifteen  trump.  It  is  set  at  a  set-width 
of  forty-seven  picas,  which  is  the  width  of  the  full  live-matter  page,  spanning  all  the  various  page  arrangements  possible; 
two-column,  three-column,  four-column  and  the  five-column  picture  spacing.  There  are  one  hundred  and  seventeen 
characters  in  ever>^  line  of  type  and  there  are  a  total  of  fifty-two  Hues  of  such  spacing  possible  per  page.  This  is  ten  point 

What  length  then  ought  the  line  to  be?  If  there  were  a  formula,  there 
wouldn't  be  bad,  illegible  typography  wherever  you  look!  It  all  depends  on 
a  series  of  interrelated  factors,  ail  of  which  need  to  be  taken  into  account. 
Because  the  factors  vary  so  much,  a  formula  cannot  be  worked  out.  You 
have  to  use  common  sense,  experience,  and  tradition,  as  well  as  your  own 
analytical  and  decision-making  skills.  Some  of  the  factors  you  should 
consider  are  these. 

□  What  typeface  are  you  using?  Some  are  more  legible  than  others. 

n  What  size  are  you  using?  The  bigger,  the  more  legible — but  don't  forget 
those  x-height  variables. 

□  What  leading  are  you  using?  The  more  space  there  is  between  lines,  the 
longer  the  lines  can  be. 

n  What  color  paper  and  ink  are  you  using?  Contrast  or  lack  thereof  can 
affect  human  reaction  and  fatigue. 

□  What  sort  of  paper  are  you  using?  Is  it  shiny  or  matte?  Shininess  creates 
tiring  highlights. 

□  How  much  text  will  there  be?  The  greater  its  mass,  the  greater  the  need  to 
make  it  easy  to  read.  You  can  get  away  with  all  sorts  of  sins  in  short  pieces. 

□  What  kind  of  text  are  you  presenting?  Technical  material  that  requires 
concentration,  or  smooth,  flowing  narrative? 

61 


□  How  big  is  the  page?  How  daunting  does  the  text  look? 

□  How  much  breakup  is  there?  How  many  stopping  points  or  changes  in 
subject  are  signaled  by  subheads,  initials,  or  the  like  so  that  each  block  of 
type  appears  short  and  easy  to  take? 

Such  a  litany  may  not  be  terribly  helpful  to  you,  so  you  should  use  a 
rule  of  thumb.  Nine  or  ten  words  per  line  is  a  comfortable  length  if  you  are 
using  serif  faces.  Sans  serif  type  should  be  set  a  trifle  narrower — eight  to  nine 
words  per  line,  perhaps — because  most  readers  aren't  as  used  to  sans  serif 
faces  and  because  the  serifs  themselves  help  guide  the  eye  horizontally  and 
thus  increase  legibility. 

Another  formula  that  has  been  with  us  for  centuries  prescribes 
one-and-a-half  alphabets,  or  39  characters  per  line.  Another  suggests  eight 
words,  each  reckoned  at  five  characters  on  an  average. 

Two  other  points  need  to  be  made:  narrow  columns  tend  to  break  up 
the  structure  of  sentences  and  force  a  lot  of  word  breaks  and  hyphenation, 
both  of  which  tend  to  interfere  with  smooth  readability  and  comprehension. 
On  the  other  hand,  wide  columns  tire  the  eye  and  make  it  difficult  to  find 
the  start  of  the  next  line.  You  have  to  try  to  find  the  comfortable  mean. 


Should  type  be  set  justified  or  ragged? 


Justified  typesetting  means  that  all  lines  in  the  column  are  set  to  the  same 
length,  so  that  you  have  a  neat  right-hand  margin  as  well  as  a  neat  left-hand 
margin.  Ragged  means  having  lines  of  varying  length  so  the  margins  are  not 
neat.  It  is  assumed  that  "set  ragged"  implies  ragged  on  the  right  edge  of  the 
column  rather  than  the  left-hand  edge  of  the  column,  although  ragged  left  is 
feasible  and  is  often  done  in  picture  captions  (see  page  70  ).  In  long  blocks 
of  type,  however,  it  is  unwise  to  use  ragged  left  setting,  because  a  neat 
left-hand  margin  is  a  far  easier  reference  point  to  which  the  eye  can  return 
in  the  process  of  reading;  as  a  result,  there  is  minimal  confusion  in  the 
transition  from  one  line  of  type  to  the  next.  In  ragged-left  setting,  confusion 
can  easily  be  caused  by  its  apparent  disorderliness. 

This  disorderliness  is  not  a  problem  at  the  right-hand  edge  of  the 
column,  where  raggedness  does  not  affect  ease  of  reading.  In  fact,  it  has  two 
valuable  advantages. 

7.   Ragged  right  looks  different.  It  can  be  interpreted  in  many  ways — as 
poetry,  as  informality,  as  a  different  visual  treatment  for  emphasis,  or  even  as 
a  deliberate  departure  from  the  rigidities  of  precise,  square,  hard-edged 
alignment,  which  is  ordinary.  There  is  no  reason  why  ragged  right  cannot  be 
used  throughout  the  publication  (to  give  it  a  visual  character  of  its  own),  or 
in  parts  of  the  publication  (to  separate  those  portions  from  the  rest),  or  in 
small  bits  here  and  there  (as  visual  relief  and  contrast).  It  is  particularly 
useful  for  major  pronouncements  (be  they  by  the  chief  executive  officer,  the 
editor,  or  any  other  Important  Person)  that  are  set  in  larger  type  to  a  wider 
measure;  for  commentary  on  segments  such  as  answers  to  questions;  and  for 
decks  (the  sentence  that  explains  or  qualifies  the  headline)  and  quotations, 
and  so  on. 


2.   Ragged  right  reads  better.  We  just  aren't  quite  used  to  it  because  the 


Identical  copy  set  three  ways: 


tradition  of  justified  setting  has  been  so  strongly  adhered  to.  It  still  looks  a 
little  unusual  at  first  glance,  but  it  is  coming  into  wider,  more  accepted 
usage,  and  ultimately  that  will  be  a  boon  to  faster  reading.  Why  or  how  it 
will  do  so  is,  like  everything  else,  a  matter  of  common  sense. 

People  don't  read  letter  by  letter  the  way  optical  character  recognition 
(OCR)  robots  do,  but  rather  recognize  words  as  words,  as  unified  letter 
groups.  The  word  groups  is  not  perceived  as  g  r  o  u  p  s,  but  as  groups.  From 
this  follows  the  fundamental  principle  of  typographic  design:  it  isn't  just  the 
shapes  of  the  letters  themselves  that  matter,  but  the  relationships  of  the 
letters  to  each  other,  i.e.,  the  spaces  between  the  letters,  are  equally  vital 
for  legibility. 

In  order  to  set  justified  copy,  you  often  have  to  spread  out  the  spaces 
between  words  and,  sometimes,  even  between  the  characters  in  order  to 
have  those  lines  come  out  to  the  same  length.  This  problem  becomes 
especially  serious  in  narrow  columns  where  the  lines  are  very  short.  Because 
the  text  varies  from  one  line  to  the  next  and  word  breaks  at  the  ends  of 
lines  often  create  problems,  there  is  an  unevenness  in  the  spacing  that 
affects  the  visual  rhythm  of  each  line  and  disturbs  one's  reading:  it  makes 
the  eye  stumble;  it  makes  the  eye  work  to  compensate  for  these  imbalances. 
In  short,  it  makes  reading  tiring  and  more  like  work. 


justified  x  14  picas 

In  order  to  set  justified  copy,  you  often 
have  to  spread  out  the  spaces  between 
words  and,  sometimes,  even  between 
the  characters  in  order  to  have  those 
lines  come  out  to  the  same  length.  The 
problem  becomes  especially  serious  in 
narrow  cotumns  where  the  lines  are  very 
short.  Because  the  text  varies  from  one 
line  to  the  next  and  word  breaks  at  the 
ends  of  lines  often  create  problems, 
there  is  an  unevenness  in  the  spacing 
that  affects  the  visual  rhythm  of  each 
line  and  disturbs  one's  reading:  it  makes 
the  eye  stumble.  It  makes  reading  tiring 
and  more  like  work. 


iustlfied  X  9  picas 


ragged  right  max  x  9  picas  no  word  breaks 


In    order    to    set    justi-^ 
fied    copy,    you    have   to 
spread  out  the  spaces  be- 
tween the  words  and, 
sometimes,    even    be-^ 
tween    the   characters    in 
order  to  have  those  lines 
come   out    to    the    same 
length.   This   prob-^ 
lem    becomes    especially 
serious  in  narrow  columns 
where  the  lines  are  very 
short.  Because  the  text  ^ 
varies  from  one  line  to  the 
next  and  word  breaks  at 
the    ends   of    lines    often 
create  problems,  there  is 
an  unevenness  in  the^ 
spacing    that    affects    the 
visual  rhythm  of  each  line 


In  order  to  set  justified 
copy,  you  often  have  to 
spread  out  the  spaces 
between  the  words  and, 
sometimes,  even  between 
the  characters  in 
order  to  have  those 
lines  come  out  to  the 
same  length.  This 
problem  becomes 
especially  serious  in 
narrow  columns  where 
the  lines  are  very  short. 
Because  the  text  varies 
from  one  line  to  the  next 
and  word  breaks  at  the 
ends  of  lines  often  create 
problems,  there  is  an 
unevenness  in  the 
spacing  that  affects  the 


Ragged  right  overcomes  this  artificial  spacing  by  simply  doing  away 
with  it.  The  type  is  set  the  way  it  should  be — naturally  spaced.  An  added 
advantage  of  natural  spacing  is  the  evenness  of  the  type's  color:  by  avoiding 
that  extra  spacing,  there  are  no  loose  areas  to  contrast  with  tighter  ones  in 
the  text.  Tight  ones  appear  dark,  loose  ones  appear  pale. 

Specifying  ragged  right  setting  can  be  a  little  more  complicated  than 
saying  "10/11  Times  Roman  flush  left  rag  right  max  x  15  pi,"  which  tells  the 
typesetter  that  you  want  the  column  set  in  10-point  Times  Roman  with  one 
point  of  space  between  the  lines,  ragged  right,  with  no  line  to  exceed  15 


63 


picas  in  length.  There  are  various  degrees  or  raggedness  you  need  to  know 
about  in  order  to  be  able  to  ask  the  typesetter  to  supply  it. 

The  most  ragged  and  feather  edged  (and  also  the  messiest  looking) — is 
rough  rag.  That  is  called  for  when  you  ask  for  no  word  breaks.  It  means  that 
your  line  will  be  set  as  the  copy  comes,  and  if  there  is  not  enough  space  to 
accommodate  the  last  word  in  full,  it  will  become  the  first  word  of  the  next 
line.  Rough  rag  can  create  some  deep  holes  if  that  last  word  happens  to  be  a 
long  one.  You  can  reduce  the  danger  of  extra-large  holes  by  asking  for 
"no  hyphenations,  except  to  avoid  indents  deeper  than  two  picas,"  or 
whatever  is  appropriate  to  the  type  size  and  line  length  that  you  are  using. 
That  allows  some  word  breaks,  yet  retains  that  rough  feather  edge.  Some 
typographers  call  that  tight  rag. 

You  can  have  a  much  neater  edge  by  calling  for  a  setting  that  is  the 
equivalent  of  justified  (i.e.,  hyphenation  allowed),  but  that  skips  the  final 
step  in  the  setting:  pressing  the  button  that  opens  up  space  between  the 
words  and  characters  in  order  to  justify  the  line  measure. 

If  the  typesetting  machinery  can  produce  it,  you  can  also  ask  for  kerning 
(usually  expressed  in  terms  of  minus  units)  by  which  the  spacing  between 
the  characters  is  reduced.  That  way,  you  can  produce  a  very  tight  and 
organized  feeling  to  your  typography  that  makes  the  ragged  edge  even  more 
dramatic  than  it  otherwise  would  be. 


Identical  copy  set  three  ways: 


ragged  right  max  x  9  picas 
no  word  breaks 

Rough  rag. 

In  order  to  set  justified 
copy,  you  often  have  to 
spread  out  the  spaces 
between  the  words  and, 
sometimes,  even  between 
the  characters  in 
order  to  have  those 
lines  come  out  to  the 
same  length.  This 
problem  becomes 
especially  serious  in 
narrow  columns  where 
the  lines  are  very  short. 
Because  the  text  varies 
from  one  line  to  the  next 
and  word  breaks  at  the 
ends  of  lines  often  create 


ragged  right  max  x  12  picas 
hyphenation  OK  to  avoid  rag 
deeper  than  2  picas 
Tight  rag. 

In  order  to  set  justified  copy,  you 
have  to  spread  out  the  spaces 
between  words  and,  sometimes, 
even  between  the  characters  in 
order  to  have  those  lines  come 
the  same  length.  This  problem 
becomes  especially  serious  in  nar- 
row columns  where  the  lines  are 
very  short.  Because  the  text  var- 
ies from  one  line  to  the  next  and 
word  breaks  at  the  ends  of  lines 
often  create  problems,  there  is 
an  unevenness  in  the  spacing 
that  affects  the  visual  rhythm  of 
each  line  and  disturbs  one's  read- 
ing: it  makes  the  eye  stumble.  It 
makes  reading  tiring  and  more 


ragged  right  max  12  picas 
hyphenation  OK 


In  order  to  set  justified  copy,  you 
often  have  to  spread  out  the 
spaces  between  words  and,  some- 
times, even  between  the  charac- 
ters in  order  to  have  those  lines 
come  out  to  the  same  length.  The 
problem  becomes  especially  seri- 
ous in  narrow  columns  where 
the  lines  are  very  short.  Because 
the  text  varies  from  one  line  to  the 
next  and  word  breaks  at  the  ends  of 
lines  often  create  problems,  there 
is  an  unevenness  in  the  spacing 
that  affects  the  visual  rhythm  of 
each  line  and  disturbs  one's  read- 
ing: it  makes  the  eye  stumble.  It 
makes  reading  tiring  and  more 


Warning:  setting  ragged  right  takes  a  little  more  space,  though  exactly 
how  much  more  depends  on  the  kind  of  setting  that  you  are  using.  It  also 
depends  on  your  column  width:  if  you  have  longer  lines  (nine  words  or  so) 
then  the  raggedness  tends  to  be  much  less  pronounced  that  if  you  have 
short  ones  (six  or  seven  words).  Clearly  there  are  fewer  line  ends  in  copy  set 
wider  than  there  are  in  the  same  copy  set  narrower  because  the  copy  is  set 
in  fewer  lines  if  they  are  longer.  So  you  have  to  add  a  safety  factor  to 
accommodate  this  unknown  to  your  copycasting  calculation. 

There  is  yet  another  complication:  the  individual  typesetter's 


Display  type 


interpretation  of  the  setting.  One  operator  may  produce  galleys  that  are 
much  tighter  (talcing  less  space)  than  another  whose  setting  is  looser  (using 
more  space).  These  are  variables  that  can  only  be  settled  through  experience 
over  time. 

You  have  one  option  that  will  give  you  more  control  over  the  setting: 
you  can  decide  where  the  lines  should  break  and  then  type  the  manuscript 
accordingly.  You  then  specify  the  setting  to  be  9/10  Helvetica,  for  instance, 
flush  left,  ragged  right,  set  line  for  line  as  typed .  The  setter  will  do  as  asked, 
but  watch  out!  What  may  look  quite  neat  in  the  right-hand  margin  of  your 
typewriter,  or  even  on  the  screen  of  your  word  processor,  is  likely  to  come 
out  very  ragged  indeed  in  type.  That's  because  typeset  characters  vary  in 
width,  whereas  each  character  is  equally  wide  on  your  typewriter.  It  is  also 
an  awful  nuisance  to  have  to  retype  your  copy  (probably  several  times  over 
to  get  it  right),  so  this  option  is  seldom  used  except  for  very  special  material 
such  as  decks,  quotes  in  large  type,  and  picture  captions. 


Headline  or  display  type  can  be  anything  you  want  it  to  be.  It  can  be  picked 
to  contrast  with  the  body-copy  typeface  (if  you  use  serif  faces  for  the  text, 
then  you  can  use  a  bold  sans  serif  for  the  headline),  or  it  can  be  picked  to 
complement  it.  In  terms  of  the  overall  product's  look  and  character,  the 
greater  the  affinity  of  the  two  types — the  text  and  the  display — to  each 
other,  the  stronger  the  effect  of  the  product  will  be,  since  it  will  exhibit  a 
consistency  of  typography  throughout.  There  are  some  publications  that  use 
a  variety  of  headline  typography  throughout  the  issue  and  a  different  face  for 
every  story.  It  certainly  creates  visual  interest  and  lots  of  opportunities  for 
cleverness,  and  it  is  especially  useful  when  there  are  few  pictures  to  enliven 
the  product.  But  it  can  also  create  visual  chaos.  All  of  this  adds  up  to  an 
unhelpful  observation  that  has  been  made  several  times  in  this  chapter: 
there  are  no  rules.  You  go  according  to  instinct,  preference,  and  experience. 
To  get  enough  characters  into  the  headline,  you  have  two  options:  you 
can  pick  a  condensed  face  that  crowds  more  into  the  same  space,  or  a  size 
smaller  with  your  normal  typeface,  if  you  go  a  size  smaller,  you  can  make  up 
for  the  loss  of  punchiness  by  increasing  the  weight  or  blackness,  say  from 
semi-bold  to  bold,  or  from  bold  to  extra-bold.  That  way  you  have  your  cake 
and  eat  it  too. 

Headline  set  three  ways  to  show  that 
you  can  squeeze  more  words  into 
the  same  space  by  using  a  more 
condensed  face,  or  going  a  size 
smaller,  while  at  the  same  time 
increasing  the  boldness. 


This  is  a  headline  set  in  Helvetica 
This  is  a  headline  set  in  Helvetica 

This  is  a  headline  set  in  Helvetica 


Headlines 


Display  type  is  intended  to  attract  attention  and  performs  two  functions 
simultaneously. 

1 .  it  pulls  the  reader  into  a  specific  story — because  of  the  way  it  is 
written,  because  of  the  promise  of  interest  it  holds,  as  well  as  its  visual 
characteristics. 

2.  It  affects  the  reader's  awareness  of  the  publication  as  a  whole,  as 
the  progression  from  page  to  page  coalesces  into  an  overall  impression  of 
its  character. 

You  need  to  be  aware  of  these  two  factors  in  order  to  handle  your 
options  intelligently  and  respond  to  the  specific  needs  of  your  particular 
publication. 

Too  often  the  editor  is  so  involved  with  the  story  that  the  overall 
product's  interests  are  shelved  or  forgotten,  resulting  in  a  conglomeration  of 
effects  that  do  not  work  actively  together  and  lead  to  a  weak,  ineffective 
impression  for  the  issue  as  a  whole.  Any  one  segment  may  be  excellent,  but 
the  product  lacks  unity,  let  alone  consistency,  from  one  issue  to  the  next. 

Such  consistency  has  an  invaluable  by-product:  recognition  of  the 
product  by  the  reader  and  the  advertiser  as  a  trusted,  valued  friend.  The 
product  probably  gains  more  from  such  recognition  of  quality  than  it  would 
from  attempts  to  create  "variety"  through  inconsistency,  constant  change  of 
pace,  and  typographic  fancy-dress  fripperies.  Also,  the  reader  sees  the 
product  for  a  short  time  only,  and  so  is  not  nearly  as  bored  with  it  as 
the  editor  may  be,  whose  life  revolves  around  it.  Thus,  the  "liveliness," 
"differentness,"  or  "change  of  pace"  that  the  editor  seems  unable  to  resist 
trying  to  create  by  artificial  means  is  not  only  unnecessary,  but  probably 
even  harmful.  It  is  much  wiser  to  stick  to  a  simple,  restrained,  recognizable 
format  than  to  start  reinventing  the  wheel  on  every  page,  or  every  story. 

That  is  why  it  is  also  advisable  to  use  one  typeface  for  both  body  copy 
and  display  type,  although  many  people  will  dispute  this — experts,  as  well 
as  those  who  profess  to  know  nothing  about  art,  but  who  know  what  they 
like.  Using  one  typeface  creates  a  unity  of  character  that  cannot  be  improved. 
If  that  is  going  too  far,  then  the  next  best  thing  is  to  pick  one  basic  face  for 
the  display  and  use  it  exclusively  in  the  many  different  versions  in  which  it  is 
available:  regular,  bold,  extra-bold,  italics,  all  caps,  outline,  drop-shadow, 
or  whatever  other  variables  there  may  be. 

Whatever  the  choice  may  be,  you  can  be  certain  of  one  thing:  it  will  be 
outdated  in  a  few  years.  Fashion  is  most  strongly  manifested  in  the  display 
areas  of  publications,  and  what  seems  the  proper  and  more  "with-it"  way 
to  do  things  today  will  surely  look  outdated  tomorrow  or  at  least  the  day 
after  tomorrow. 

Even  if  you  avoid  trendiness  and  exaggeration  by  sticking  with 
responsibly  composed  and  expressive  typography,  whatever  you  are  doing 
today  will  be  old-fashioned  one  day.  To  attempt  to  work  for  eternity  is 
foolish.  Instead,  handle  the  display  as  logically  as  possible,  allow  it  to  signal 
its  story  and  content  as  clearly  as  possible,  and  style  it  as  consistently  as 
possible  throughout  the  issue. 


How  big  should  headlines  be? 


The  size  of  headline  type  is  often  predicated  on  newspaper  tradition,  which 
decrees  that  the  more  important  a  story  is,  the  louder  the  trumpeting  should 
be — the  bigger  the  type  ought  to  be.  Furthermore,  newspaper  makeup  also 
decrees  that  the  higher  up  the  story  is  on  the  page,  the  bigger  the  headline 
type  should  be  because  important  stories  go  at  the  top  of  the  page,  which  is 
the  important  area.  Fine.  You  may  choose  to  accept  this  or  make  your 
own  decision. 

What  you  must  do  in  any  event  is  make  the  headlines  visible,  big 
enough  and  bold  enough  to  make  for  ample  contrast  against  the  body  copy. 
If  they  are  too  small,  they  look  insignificant.  If  they  are  too  big,  they  overwhelm 
and  become  out  of  scale.  If  they  hurt  the  eye  with  their  size,  make  them 
smaller  or  shoot  them  through  a  screen  so  that  the  blackness  is  turned  to  a 
gray  tint.  In  any  case,  follow  your  instinct. 

The  common  practice  is  to  have  headlines  set  anywhere  between  18 
and  36  points.  Bigger  than  that  is  fine  for  just  a  few  words;  smaller  than  that 
is  advisable  for  minor  elements.  It  is  impossible  to  make  laws  about  such 
subjective,  interpretive,  unique  decisions,  just  remember  that  headlines 
must  work  together  as  a  group  throughout  the  issue  and  must  not  appear  to 
be  individual  impressions  atop  each  separate  story.  Some  restraint  on  your 
imaginativeness  will  make  a  better  overall  product. 


What  is  the  best  place  on  the  page  to  put  your  headline? 


Since  we  read  from  left  to  right  down  the  page,  it  is  sensible  to  place  the 
headline  above  the  text  so  that  the  eye  can  travel  comfortably  downward 
as  the  stages  of  the  story  are  revealed.  That  doesn't  mean  that  you  may  not 
put  the  headline  anywhere  else  that  makes  sense  in  a  specific  situation.  It 
only  means  that  you  are  giving  up  a  natural  advantage  in  order  to  achieve  a 
special  effect.  Is  that  effect  worth  it?  You  have  to  be  the  judge.  Will  it  come 
off?  Only  if  you  do  whatever  you  intend  to  do  strongly,  deliberately, 
visibly,  and  courageously. 

The  top  left-hand  corner  of  the  spread  is  where  the  eye  goes  first.  Put 
your  major  headline  up  there  and  you  will  catch  most  of  the  readers. 
lumping  the  gutter  (crossing  from  one  page  to  the  other)  with  a 
headline  tends  to  be  dangerous  unless  the  typography  of  that  headline  is 
so  enormous  and  overwhelming  that  the  gap  between  the  pages  is  bridged 
by  it.  It  is  wiser  to  lay  out  the  page  in  such  a  way  that  the  headline  remains 
on  one  page,  even  though  it  may  refer  to  a  story  that  covers  the  whole 
spread.  If  you  must  jump  the  gutter,  avoid  having  the  gutter  fall  within  a 
word.  You  can  also  get  a  better  result  by  writing  a  so-called  bimodal 
headline,  which  consists  of  two  sets  of  thoughts  or  phrases  separated  by  a 
colon,  a  dash,  or  an  ellipsis  (.  .  .).  The  left-hand  page  holds  the  first  half 
of  the  headline,  and  the  right-hand  page  displays  the  second  half  of 
the  headline. 


A  few  technical  terms  about  headlines 


Since  journalists  are  justifiably  some  of  the  proudest  professionals  and  most 
verbally  oriented  people  there  are,  a  specialized  newspaper  jargon  has 
evolved  over  the  years.  Here  are  a  few  terms  you  ought  to  be  able  to 
recognize. 


Times  roman  bold 
set  tight  and 
without  extra  leading 

FLUSH  LEFT,  RAGGED  RIGHT 


Times  roman  bold 
set  tight  and 
without  extra  leading 


Times  roman  bold 

set  tight  and 

without  extra  leading 


Times  roman  bold  set  kerned  minus-one  unit  in  one  line  is  strong  in  visual  impact 


WALL-TO-WALL 

(filling  out  the  space  available) 


The  issue 


Times  roman  bold 


EYEBROW 

(free-standing,  centered, 
self-contained  label  over  a  large 
headline) 


The  editorial : 


Times  roman  bold 
set  tight  and  strong 


KICKER 

(positioned  flush  left  or  indented,  or 
over  an  indented  head,  self-contained 
but  tied  into  the  head  by  meaning, 
often  with  a  colon  or  ellipsis  at  the  end) 


Times 


The  importance  of  the  relationship 
of  all  editorial  spaces  in  the  issue 


HAMMER 

(kicker  larger  than  its  headline 
beneath) 


TOMBSTONING 

(a  depressing  name  for  a  depressing 
problem  in  page  makeup.  When  two 
or  more  headlines  align  across  the 
page  so  they  read  into  each  other  by 
mistake,  the  problem  is  avoided  by 
juggling  the  elements  around  in 
different  configurations) 


tight 


from  page  00 


JUMP  HEAD 

(identifies  the  continuation  of  the 
story  on  another  page  usually  by 
means  of  a  key  word  or  phrase  from 
the  opening  headline) 


This  boldface  continued 

RUNNING  HEAD 
(a  small  label  in  the  top  left-hand 
corner  of  the  page  identifying  the 
subject  matter  being  continued  from 
the  previous  page) 


Legibility  of  headlines:  all  cap,  up-and-down  style,  ordownstyle 


recognifioic 


i):^KiiNcmimc 


We  Type  Heads  This  Way 

But  it  makes  more  sense 
to  set  them  this  way. . . 

Than  to  Set  Them  This 
Way  Which  Looks  Funny 
but  We  Are  Used  to  It 


typography 
typography 


We  recognize  words  in  character  groups  rather  than  letter  by  letter.  The 
outline  of  such  a  group  is  a  crucial  factor  in  the  process.  Recognizing  the 
word  "recognition,"  for  instance,  is  aided  by  the  fact  that  the  "g"  pokes 
down  below  the  type,  the  "t"  pokes  up  above  it,  and  the  two  "I's"  have 
dots  floating  in  the  space  above  as  well.  But  set  the  same  word  all  cap, 
RECOGNITION,  and  you  have  a  neat  horizontal  alignment  across  the  bottom 
and  top  of  the  letters,  which  forms  a  nice  neat  box  that  holds  no  visual  clues 
whatsoever  to  help  identify  the  word.  That  is  why  all  caps  are  harder  to 
read  than  lowercase. 

Yet  a  few  words  set  all  cap  are  no  problem.  Labels,  department 
headings,  logos,  etc.,  are  fine  that  way,  as  are  special  words  picked  out  in 
headlines  for  their  particular  significance  or  meaning.  There  are  also  some 
demographic  segments  of  readership,  such  as  architects  and  engineers,  who 
tend  to  letter  their  drawings  all  cap  and  who  have  no  problem  reading  caps. 
Yet,  even  for  them,  setting  long  blocks  of  copy  all  cap  is  inadvisable.  For  the 
population  at  large,  use  all  cap  with  discrimination  for  special  effect. 

The  Up-And-Down  Style  of  typesetting,  to  this  writer's  thinking  at  least, 
seems  illogical  and  a  hangover  from  the  past  that  is  accepted  somewhat 
unthinkingly.  It  was  invented  as  a  makeshift  solution  to  overcome  shortages 
of  capital  letters  when  newspaper  headlines  were  set  all  cap.  Such 
shortages  are  no  longer  with  us,  and  headlines  are  set  large  and  bold  to 
distinguish  them  from  the  body  copy  anyway.  So  such  extra  added 
differentiation  as  capitalizing  the  first  letter  of  every  important  word 
(which  is  what  this  style  entails)  becomes  excessive.  Not  only  does  it  lead 
to  arguments  as  to  which  words  are  important  and  deserve  such  treatment, 
but  it  also  decreases  the  words'  legibility  because  it  is  an  unnatural  way  of 
presenting  them.  Furthermore,  it  decreases  the  distinguishing  features  of 
proper  names  in  headlines  by  making  everything  look  like  proper  names 
with  initial  capitalization.  Why  is  it  still  done?  Because  of  habit;  because 
most  newspapers  still  do  it  to  make  their  publications  look  "newsy,"  and, 
above  all,  because  our  typewriters  do  it.  On  a  typewriter,  the  convention  is 
indeed  useful  in  distinguishing  heads  from  body  copy.  However,  the 
translation  of  typewriting  convention  into  typography  makes  little  sense. 
If  you  want  your  product  to  read  smoothly,  look  contemporary,  and  be 
logically  made,  start  your  headlines  with  a  capital  letter  and  continue  in 
lowercase—  downstyle— just  as  a  normal  sentence  would,  only  set  large 
and  bold. 

To  ensure  legibility,  specify  tight  setting.  It  is  easier  to  read  words  when 
the  characters  are  close  together  than  when  they  are  spaced  far  apart, 
especially  in  sizes  of  type  such  as  those  used  in  headlines.  The  new 
typesetting  machinery  allows  us  to  kern  the  characters,  and  this  capacity 
ought  to  be  made  use  of  in  any  type  size  larger  than  14  point.  Unkerned 
typesetting  creates  unnecessary  gaps  between  the  letters.  Closing  those  gaps 
up  helps  us  to  distinguish  the  word  as  a  word  more  quickly.  Incidentally, 
never  open  up  between  words  or  letters  in  a  headline  in  order  to  fill  out  a 
predetermined  width.  Set  the  head  flush  left  and  ragged  right. 


69 


Decks  and  blurbs 


Often  headlines  are  accompanied  by  a  deck:  several  lines  of  display  type  that 
expand  the  meaning  of  the  headline,  explain  its  significance  to  the  reader, 
or  in  some  other  way  helps  to  persuade  the  reader  to  read  the  text.  If  the 
basic  idea  of  the  story  is  stated  in  the  headline,  if  the  deck  points  out  its 
significance  and  the  first  paragraph  of  the  text  immediately  tells  the  news 
and  its  usefulness,  you  have  a  sequence  of  reading  matter  that  is  practically 
irresistible.  Since  one  thought  flows  from  the  previous  one,  it  is  logical  to 
place  the  elements  in  a  like  manner.  Headline  at  the  top,  deck  beneath  it, 
text  below  that. 

Often  decks  are  misused  as  a  precis  or  repetition  of  either  the  headline 
or  the  first  paragraph.  Readers  resent  reading  the  same  content  twice 
because  it  wastes  their  time,  and  it  decreases  the  deck's  importance  on 
stories  where  it  is  being  used  functionally. 

If  the  deck  is  placed  above  the  headline  and  is  written  in  such  a  way 
that  the  headline  flows  out  of  it  naturally  (with  or  without  ellipses  or  leaders), 
it  is  called  a  precede.  Decks  and  precedes  are  also  often  called  blurbs. 

Decks  should  be  distinguished  in  function  as  well  as  in  form  from 
summaries  or  synopses.  Decks  are  active  steps  in  a  series  of  information-giving 
statements.  Summaries  are  self-contained  precis  of  the  article.  Usually  in 
scientific  journals  they  are  used  for  information  retrieval  purposes  or  as  fast 
overviews  that  allow  the  potential  reader  to  decide  whether  or  not  to  invest 
time  and  effort  in  reading  the  text. 


Captions,  legends,  cutlines 


Everyone  brings  his  or  her  own  background,  experience  and  individual 
interests  with  them  when  they  look  at  a  picture.  As  editors,  you  must  be 
aware  of  this  natural  human  characteristic  and  react  to  it,  if  you  want  to  get 
your  interpretation  of  a  picture  across  to  the  reader  and  avoid  having  it 
misinterpreted  by  the  reader's  own  way  of  seeing  it.  How?  By  means  of 
words  that  accompany  the  picture  to  explain  its  significance  the  way  you, 
the  editors,  see  it.  The  trouble  is  that  pictures  tell  too  much! 

There  are  a  few  situations  in  which  captions  (in  magazines),  legends  (in 
books),  and  cutlines  (in  newspapers)  are  unnecessary.  When  they  are  mood 
shots  used  as  openers  to  a  story,  for  instance,  the  headline  that  is  seen  near 
them  takes  the  place  of  the  caption  and  does  the  work  of  focusing  the 
interpretation  of  the  picture  in  its  own  words. 

Captions  should,  whenever  possible,  do  more  than  just  describe  what 
the  picture  shows  or  give  the  name  of  the  person  in  it,  because  readers  look 
at  illustrations  first,  before  they  start  to  read  the  page.  Their  interest  is 
aroused  by  images,  which  ought,  therefore,  to  be  utilized  as  hooks  to  pull 
the  readers  into  the  story.  And  a  juicy  gobbet  of  information  in  the  caption 
is  the  best  possible  material  with  which  to  bait  those  hooks. 

The  caption  should  be  closely  attached  to  the  picture  so  they  are 
perceived  together  as  Siamese  twins  are.  Alignment  and  closeness  are  the 
two  obvious  techniques  to  make  them  appear  that  way.  A  precise 


Readers  look  for  captions  below 
pictures  because  that  is  where  the\' 
expect  to  find  them,  so  it  is  wise  to 
put  them  there,  all  other  things 
being  equal.  It  is  also  wisest  to  keep 
them  neatly  aligned  with  the  picture 
rather  than  Indented  because  the 
crispness  of  effect  thus  created 
outweighs  anv  advantage  you  may 
have  from  spots  of  empty  space 
alongside  such  indents,  which  aren't 
big  enough  to  be  dramatic,  but  are 
sizable  enough  to  appear  messy. 


measurement  of  appropriate  closeness  depends  on  the  scale  and  context, 
of  course,  but  perhaps  a  pica  ought  to  be  about  maximum.  As  for  alignment 
they  should  be  flush  with  the  edge  and  should  align  on  the  corner.  The 
diagram  shows  the  various  alternatives. 


The  purpose  of  this  lypc  is 
to  study  the  effecl  thai 
novarese  ilalic  migM  have 
when  set  in  narrow  columns 
flush  left  and  ragged  righi 
The  purpose  is  lo  use  this 
jormat  for  picture  captions 
(often  called  legends'  in 
books  and  cullines  in 
newspaper  parlancel 


It  is  often  most  attractive  to  set  captions  ragged  right  if  the  rest  of  the 
page  is  set  in  rigid,  justified  columns.  The  contrast  of  texture  and  informality 
adds  flavor  to  the  product.  The  flush  edge  of  the  type  is  the  edge  to  which 
the  picture  should  be  aligned  or  made  parallel,  so  the  type  lines  appear  to 
grow  out  of  the  photo,  like  whiskers.  And  you  can  get  away  with  setting 
flush  right  and  ragged  on  the  left  if  your  captions  are  not  too  long  (a  dozen 
lines  perhaps)  or  too  wide  (more  than  35  characters  on  average). 


To  help  the  captions  belong  to  the 
picture,  use  any  two  of  these  three 
principles  in  conjunction:  (1)  Align 
flush-left  captions  with  the  left-hand 
edge  of  the  picture  and  flush-right 
captions  with  the  right-hand  edge  of 
the  picture.  (2)  Align  captions  with 
the  top  or  the  bottom  of  the  picture. 
(3)  Set  the  inner  edge  of  the  caption 
(the  one  alongside  the  picture's 
edge)  flush,  letting  the  outside  edge 
be  ragged. 


Setting  captions  very  wide — the  full  width  of  the  picture  no  matter  how 
wide  it  may  be — is  perfectly  all  right  if  there  is  only  one  line  to  read.  If  you 
start  adding  lines  you  jeopardize  legibility  by  going  too  wide.  Your  risk  is 
fairly  small  up  to  about  four  lines,  but  any  more  than  that  will  reduce  the 
readership  to  just  those  people  who  are  fascinated  by  the  information  and 
will,  therefore,  bother  to  plow  through  all  that  material.  Better  break  it  into 
two  legs  of  type  (columns).  How  wide  is  too  wide?  It  depends  on  the  face. 


the  leading,  and  so  on.  But  if  you  must  have  a  rule  of  thumb,  assume  that 
going  wider  than  60  characters  per  line  is  dangerous. 

Should  captions  be  bigger  than  the  surrounding  body  copy  or  smaller? 
Should  captions  appear  darker  or  paler?  Should  they  be  set  in  italics?  Who 
knows?  Newspapers  seem  to  prefer  the  darker/bigger  direction,  whereas 
visually  sophisticated  magazines  seem  to  use  the  lighter/smaller  type,  often 
set  in  italics  of  the  body-copy  typeface.  There  are  no  rules,  nor  is  there  any 
logical  argument  that  should  sway  the  individual  editor  one  way  or  the  other 
from  personal  preference:  "I  like  it  that  way." 


Catch  lines  or  boldface  lead-ins 


There  are  essential  technicalities  you  should  know  about  because  they 
increase  the  communication  value  of  both  the  picture  and  the  caption 
it  accompanies.  Used  correctly,  they  are  editorial  tools  for  speedy 
communication,  which  is  what  you  want.  If  you  think  of  a  caption  as  the 
self-contained  little  story  that  it  should  be  (if  you  are  using  the  picture  as  a 
springboard  for  information,  that  is),  then  it  is  perfectly  logical  to  write  it  so 
your  main  point  is  articulated  in  a  little  headline  that  starts  the  text.  Such  a 
miniheadline  is  precisely  what  the  catch  line  or  boldface  lead-in  ought  to 
be.  The  catch  lines  are  usually  written  as  labels — self-contained  and 
free-standing — and  that  is  probably  the  easiest  way  to  handle  them.  If  the 
labels  are  interesting,  they  work.  Boldface  lead-ins  whose  visibility  relies  on 
typographic  contrast  with  the  first  words  of  the  first  sentence  of  the  caption 
(usually  set  bolder,  or  all  caps,  or  larger,  or  in  a  contrasting  face  to  the  rest  of 
the  caption)  are,  alas,  too  often  misused.  Those  words  set  in  bold  ought  to  be 
worthy  of  such  emphasis  in  terms  of  their  own  significance.  You  should 
avoid  blunting  your  precious  weapons  of  emphasis,  such  as  boldfacing,  by 
giving  something  the  appearance  of  importance  without  giving  it  the 
substance  or  meaning.  The  simplest  test  to  determine  such  worthiness: 
do  the  boldfaced  words  make  sense  if  you  read  them  alone?  If  they  do,  then 
they  indeed  say  something  intelligent.  If  they  cannot  stand  on  their  own, 
then  you  know  that  you  must  rewrite  your  sentence.  Here  is  a  diagram  of 
caption  variations. 


BOLDFACE  LEAD-IN 


CUT-IN  SIDELINES 


Bylines 


Two  major  questions  need  to  be  asked  that  will  give  clues  to  handling 
your  bylines: 

1.  Are  there  a  lot  of  them  in  the  issue?  If  so,  it  is  certainly  worthwhile 
to  establish  a  definite  format  and  placement  for  them  so  they  add  to  the 
overall  personality  of  the  product. 

2.  Are  the  names  in  those  bylines  important  to  the  status  of  the 
publication?  If  so,  you  must  give  them  the  importance  they  deserve  through 
placement,  size,  and  visibility.  If  not,  you  can  play  them  down.  Here  are  a 
few  of  the  typical  placements  to  choose  from. 


ABOVE  THE  HEADLINE:  LEFT 


BELOW  THE  HEADLINE;  LEFT 


WITH  THE  DECK:    FLUSH  RIGHT 


AT  END  OF  LAST  LINE 


IN  TEXT:    FIRST  LINE 


tiBte 


WITH  BIO  AND  PIC:    LEFT 


LEFT  COLUMN 


Tips  to  help  you  take 
better  photos  for 
your  publication 


Move  in  as  close  as  you  can 


That  way  you  help  define  what  you  are  trying  to  capture  on  film.  You  are 
deliberately  getting  rid  of  the  confusing  surroundings  and  homing  in  on  the 
area  that  matters.  The  closer  you  move  in  to  your  subject,  the  more  positive, 
striking,  and  detailed  the  quality  will  be.  The  bigger  the  image,  the  more 
powerful  its  journalistic  and  design  impact.  (Incidentally,  you  can  retrofit 
images  that  encompass  too  much  by  cropping.  See  page  98) 


Use  lenses  that  will  move  in  close  for  you 


If  you  cannot  get  nearer,  but  still  want  to  capture  close-up  detail,  technology 
can  come  to  your  aid:  Getting  the  right  lens  just  costs  money. 


Having  everything  in  focus  is  dull 


All  but  the  simplest  cameras  allow  you  to  choose  your  depth  of  field.  That 
allows  you  to  make  the  important  part  of  the  picture  crisp  and  sharp, 
whereas  the  part  in  front  of  and  beyond  it  can  be  made  to  look  fuzzy.  This 
is  just  another  technique  of  "editing":  drawing  attention  to  that  which 
is  important. 

You  control  depth  of  field  by  changing  the  aperture  of  the  lens.  The 
smaller  the  aperture  (the  higher  the  f-number,  like  f-16,  for  instance)  the 


greater  the  depth  of  field;  the  more  you  open  up  the  lens  (to  an  f-stop  of 
2.8,  for  instance)  the  tighter  the  depth  of  field  becomes.  If  you  use  a  long 
lens,  your  desired  effect  is  automatically  produced:  You  focus  on  the 
subject  and  fuzz  out  the  foreground  and  background,  which  are  still  there 
as  a  recognizable  context  but  do  not  compete  for  the  viewer's  attention. 


Putthecenterof  interest  elsewhere  than  plumb  in  the  middle 

in  the  middle  is  where  you  expect  to  find  it,  which  is  precisely  why  it  makes 
a  boring  photo.  If  you  imagine  a  pattern  breaking  the  viewfinder  into  ninths, 
like  this  diagram,  placing  the  center  of  interest  at  one  of  the  four  intersections 
will  give  it  a  dominating  position.  Also,  use  one  of  the  two  horizontal  lines 
inside  the  diagram  as  an  edge  for  the  horizon.  That  way,  either  the  upper 
two-thirds  or  the  lower  two-thirds  become  dominant. 


O <» 

O #- 


Make  something  dominant  in  every  picture 


The  very  fact  that  you  do  so  implies  an  editorial  statement  of  some  kind: 
It  shows  a  point  of  view.  By  selecting  one  element,  you  show  that  you  have 
something  specific  to  say,  which  in  turn  makes  it  more  interesting  to  listen 
to — which  is  precisely  the  same  thing  as  finding  something  interesting  to 
look  at.  Reading/hearing/seeing  are  all  related  aspects  of  communicating. 


Compose  your  shots  with  an  awareness  of  the  lines  of  force 


Horizontal  lines,  flatness,  lots  of  left-to-right  elements,  give  the  resultant 
image  a  placid  quality.  Lots  of  verticals  can  be  interpreted  as  strong  and 
tough.  Diagonals  or  angles  convey  a  feeling  of  action  and  motion.  By  itself, 
such  knowledge  may  not  be  all  that  useful,  but  knowing  these  effects  can 
help  you  give  the  photo  the  requisite  mood  if  you  use  such  lines  of  force  as 
contrasting  background  to  the  foreground  element  that  you  are  expressing. 
Concentric  or  converging  lines  can  help  draw  the  viewer's  attention  to 
your  focal  point. 


Allow  moving  objects  plenty  of  space 


The  composition  of  the  frame  can  underscore  or  even  imply  activity  that  may 
not  actually  be  visible,  such  as  the  direction  in  which  people  are  looking  or 
pointing.  What  you  want  to  do  is  to  take  the  motion's  direction  into  account 
and  allow  ample  space  in  the  frame  for  the  action  to  grow  into.  Keep  moving 
elements  away  from  the  edge  of  the  photo,  unless  you  want  to  be  very 
tricky.  A  useful  action-exaggeration  manipulation  of  existing  images  is  shown 
on  page  1 15. 


Use  the  rectangle  format  to  best  advantage 


Most  cameras  produce  rectangular  images.  Look  at  the  subject  to  decide 
whether  it  is  a  broad  and  flat  shape  (in  which  case  you  shoot  it  as  a 
horizontal)  or  a  tall,  skinny  shape  (in  which  case  the  vertical  would  fit  it 
better).  Shoot  verticals  as  often  as  the  subject  matter  is  suited  for  that,  or  as 
often  as  it  seems  to  make  sense.  So  look  for  arrangements  that  fit  naturally 
into  a  vertical  shape.  They  will  give  you  variety  and  a  change  of  pace  on  the 
page.  Maybe  you  can  even  get  them  on  the  front  cover. 


Enliven  your  picture  with  foreground  interest 


Looking  through  something  at  the  subject  beyond  gives  a  feeling  of  "being 
there"  to  the  onlooker.  Photographs  are  illusions  of  reality.  One  of  their 
purposes  is  to  foster  that  feeling  of  participation  in  their  viewers.  That's 
what  gets  people  involved  in  the  story. 


Pick  a  background  that  explains  the  character  of  the  personality 


Allow  the  context  within  which  the  subject  is  to  be  seen  to  help  the  reader 
understand  at  first  glance  what  you  deem  significant  about  the  subject. 
By  substituting  job  backgrounds  for  sterile  studio  set-ups,  you  can  make 
even  the  most  ordinary  people  pictures  become  documents  of  people  in 
true-to-life  settings  instead  of  catalog  mug  shots.  Their  offices,  workplaces, 
and  surroundings  can  be  highly  revealing  of  the  subjects'  characters. 


Don't  let  the  background  become  a  nasty  surprise 

Be  aware  of  everything  seen  in  the  frame.  The  camera  isn't  selective.  It 
cannot  judge.  The  photographer  must  do  that.  That's  why  you  have  to  notice 
the  Eiffel  Tower  growing  out  of  the  woman's  head — and  move  the  woman 
and/or  the  camera.  It  might  be  wise  to  leave  the  tower  where  it  is. 

Perhaps  it  is  best  to  shoot  people  against  plain  backgrounds:  It  is  safer 
that  way — but  is  it  more  interesting? 


Watch  out  for  booby  traps 


We  see  differently  than  the  camera  does:  We  see  selectively — filtering  or 
editing  out  what  is  unimportant  or  misleading;  the  camera,  alas,  has  no 
brain,  so  it  is  up  to  the  photographer  to  do  the  noticing  and  visual  editing. 
The  contrast  of  dark  objects  against  light  backgrounds,  or  vice  versa,  can  ruin 
the  image.  We  take  no  notice  of  telephone  poles  or  u'ires  when  walking 
down  the  street.  But  take  a  photo  of  the  same  view,  and  the  black  cage  we 
live  in  slashes  across  the  skyline.  We  ignore  and  look  beyond  the  dirty 
dishes  on  the  table  when  the  after-dinner  speaker  rises  to  pontificate,  but 
take  a  photo  of  the  scene,  and  all  you  see  is  dirty  crockery  white  against 
the  dark  dinner  jackets. 


Check  the  edges  of  the  picture  in  your  viewfinder  before  you  shoot 

That  may  help  to  prevent  chopping  off  the  tops  of  people's  heads,  cutting  off 
their  feet,  and  other  such  generally  unsatisfactory  mayhem.  Tilting  the 
camera  or  moving  it  a  few  inches  this  way  or  that  could  allow  you  to 
concentrate  on  the  focal  elements  without  having  the  surroundings  just 
appearing  by  happenstance  or  accident. 


Shoot  people  as  the  individuals  they  are 


This  is  often  a  problem  when  you  have  a  number  of  people  to  show: 
anniversaries,  honorees,  officers,  new  employees,  and  so  on.  Since  everyone 
is  different,  their  pictures  should  reflect  those  differences  in  character, 
personality,  and  attitude.  Then  having  to  arrange  them  in  groups  of 
equal-sized  pictures  will  not  create  such  a  boring  result.  The  faces  will 
make  themselves  interesting. 


Bunch  people  into  tight  groups 


That  way,  you  can  come  in  closer  and  get  them  bigger.  It  is  in  the  details  that 
the  interest  lies.  The  normal  space  that  people  prefer  to  have  around  them 
to  make  themselves  feel  safe  and  secure  looks  like  very  large  gaps  v^hen 
frozen  into  photographs. 


Figure  out  fresh  angles  for  cliche  situations 


The  typical  (and  worst)  problems  are  the  "grip-and-grin"  or  "grin-and-shake" 
congratulation  or  welcoming  pictures,  if  the  story  cannot  be  told  another 
way,  neatly  avoiding  the  use  of  the  standard  set  piece,  try  to  cover  the 
handshaking  event  as  spontaneously  and  freshly  as  the  circumstances  will 
allow:  shoot  over  the  presenter's  shoulder;  crawl  on  your  belly  and  shoot 
upward  at  the  symbolic  hands;  use  a  periscope;  drill  a  hole  in  the  ceiling 
from  the  room  upstairs  and  shoot  downward — anything  to  get  a  bit  of 
variety.  But  remember  that  people  are  interested  in  people,  and  that  what 
you,  as  communicator,  deem  to  be  deadly  may  well  be  fascinating  to 
your  readers.  And,  most  certainly,  it  is  crucial  to  the  people  who  are 
appearing  in  the  picture. 


Sunlight  is  great,  except  that  it  makes  strong  shadows 


Shadows  are  dangerous,  especially  if  they  are  under  the  noses  and  in  the  eye 
sockets,  turning  living  people  into  cadavers.  The  brighter  the  sun,  the  more 
hard-edged  the  shadows  and  the  greater  the  need  to  squint.  Better  to 
shepherd  the  people  into  the  shade  and  then  shoot  in  indirect  light. 

Flashbulbs  create  shadow  monsters  on  walls 

Move  the  subjects  at  least  six  feet  away  from  the  wall  to  prevent  casting 
shadows  as  well  as  throwing  the  wall  itself  out  of  sharpness  (which  may  be 
all  to  the  good  if  you  are  shooting  against  motel-lobby  wallpaper  or  its 
patterned  equivalent). 

Don't  blind  your  subjects  by  shooting  flash  too  close 

It  is  better  to  stay  about  ten  feet  away  from  the  subject  to  prevent  flash  hot 
spots,  and  it  is  much  better  to  separate  the  flash  from  the  camera  and  hold  it 
to  one  side.  It  is  even  better  to  bounce  the  flash  off  the  ceiling,  if  the  ceiling 
is  not  higher  than  about  ten  feet.  If  circumstances  dictate  getting  in  closer 
with  the  flash,  cut  its  progressive  starkness  with  a  piece  of  gauze  laid  over 
the  flashbulb.  Incidentally,  a  flash  probably  doesn't  work  at  all  beyond  20 
feet.  Ten  feet  is  optimum.  But  new,  fast  lenses  coupled  with  new,  fast  film 
can  avoid  the  use  of  flash  altogether,  which  makes  it  possible  to  take  far 
more  lifelike  pictures  in  existing  light. 


If  you  want  animated  reactions  from  people,  be  funny 

You  want  to  have  people  appear  alive  in  the  pictures,  but  that  is  not  the 
effect  that  saying  "Cheese!"  engenders.  Forced  smiles  create  waxworks. 
If  you  are  going  to  start  shooting  people  who  are  supposed  to  smile,  give 
them  something  to  smile  about. 


People 

pictures 

don't 

have  to 

be 

boring 


People  are  interested  in  people.*  That  is  why  people  pictures  (mug shots 
in  police  and  editorial  jargon)  have  become  such  an  essential  ingredient  of 
publications.  Yet  editors  all  decry  their  fate,  because  they  persist  in  seeing 
these  pictures  as  dull  and  boring.  The  boredom  may  well  be  in  the  editors' 
rather  than  the  readers'  minds.  It  isn't  just  the  people  whose  pictures  appear 
in  print  who  are  pleased  to  see  them  (although  those  people  seem  to  react 
as  though  it  were  more  important  than  it  really  is).  The  readers,  too,  care  to 
see  them  because  they  don't  just  want  to  read  a  story  about  personalities; 
they  want  to  see  personalities  too.  Whether  this  is  instinctive  human  curiosity 
or  whether  it  is  a  need  we  have  acquired  from  television  and  other  visual 
media  is  not  important.  What  is  important  is  that  readers  want  to  see  the 
person  because  they  are  looking  for  personality  clues.  They  don't  really  care 
what  someone  looks  like,  unless  that  someone's  claim  to  fame  happens  to  be 
his  or  her  looks.  They  care  very  much  about  character — as  expressed  in  the 
look  of  the  eyes,  the  body  language  of  the  stance,  the  revealing  glimpse 
caught  and  frozen  for  inspection  by  the  sensitive  photographer.  That  is  why 
the  first  duty  for  the  editor  is  to  search  out  those  pictures  that  show  such 
insight.  Naturally,  these  shots  are  "dangerous"  to  use:  the  subjects  may  well 
be  less  than  happy  to  have  their  innermost  selves  revealed  to  the  public  this 
way.  Yet  it  is  precisely  that  revelation  that  becomes  the  essence  of  lively 
publication  making.  So  you  have  to  weigh  the  politics  of  the  situation:  You 
have  to  calculate  the  cost/benefit  ratio.  It  may  cost  you  your  job  to  run  a 
certain  not-very-flattering  picture  of  the  chief  executive  officer — but  the 
benefit  to  the  publication  will  be  the  recognition  of  its  pioneering  spirit! 
(Perhaps  such  a  risk/reward  ratio  is  stacked  against  you:  too  much  risk  for 
the  wrong  sort  of  reward?)  Well,  J.  P.  Morgan,  talking  about  the  risks  of 
investing,  said,  "You  eat  better  at  10  percent,  but  you  sleep  better  at 
2  percent."  You  have  to  judge  the  pros  and  cons  of  going  out  on  a  limb  for 
yourself.  Good  luck! 

Let's  be  a  bit  more  realistic,  then,  and  accept  the  fact  that  the  safe  shot 
is  what  you  are  likely  to  be  stuck  with.  That  is,  indeed,  boring.  But  there  are 
two  basic  kinds  of  situations:  (1 )  a  story  where  you  have  one  or  just  a  few 
mug  shots  to  handle,  where  the  pictures  are  incidental  to  the  story;  and 
(2)  a  story  or  section  where  you  must  accommodate  a  large  number  of 
people  pictures  in  some  kind  of  catalog  format.  In  the  first  case  you  can  (and 
should)  play  with  the  material  to  make  it  as  graphically  varied  and  interesting 
as  possible.  In  the  second  case,  you  are  stuck  with  the  images — it  is  not 
worth  the  investment  or  time  to  manipulate  them — and  you  must  make 
the  group  or  pattern  appear  interesting. 

*Has  it  ever  occurred  to  you  that  there  are  never  any  people  in  pictures  of  rooms  in 
magazines?  When  you  want  the  surroundings  to  be  noticed,  don't  put  people  in  the  picture, 
because  if  you  do  the  readers  will  study  the  people  and  forget  the  room  settings. 


The  individual  mug  shot  and  how  to  make  it  more  interesting 


Clean  up  the  background 

If  it  is  distracting,  if  it  is  part  of  a  snapshot  with  other  people  in  it,  if  it  is  an 
ugly  wallpaper  pattern,  if  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  focus  of  your  story,  if 
it  is  too  pale  to  give  good  definition  to  the  edge  of  the  halftone — darken  it, 
lighten  it,  make  it  fuzzy,  do  something  with  it  that  makes  the  personage 
"pop  out"  and  get  attention,  so  that  the  background  becomes  secondary. 

How?  By  retouching  the  photograph — having  a  professional  retoucher 
spray  gray  paint  over  the  bad  area,  or  by  "ghosting"  the  background  (see 
page  108).  Or . . . 


Get  rid  of  the  background  altogether 

This  results  in  much  more  interesting  shapes  because  it  is  a  change  from  the 
everlasting  rectangular  halftone.  Furthermore,  it  creates  the  illusion  of  the 
personage  sitting  right  there  on  the  white  paper. 

This  is  an  easy  trick,  especially  if  the  person  is  facing  the  camera — 
you  avoid  the  problem  of  chopping  off  a  piece  of  nose  or  mouth.  (A  bit  of 
ear  or  top  of  the  head  doesn't  matter  nearly  so  much.)  And,  if  you  do  create 
unintended  baldness,  you  can  always  counter  the  criticism  by  maintaining 
that  there  are  only  a  few  perfect  heads,  the  rest  have  to  be  hidden  under 
hair,  and  you  are  just  helping  out. 

To  make  a  silhouetted  picture  you  can  either  do  it  yourself  or  instruct 
the  printer  to  do  it  for  you.  As  far  as  doing  it  yourself  is  concerned:  it  is 
extremely  unwise  to  cut  up  pictures.  It  ruins  them  for  future  use,  and  it  may 
be  very  unpopular  with  the  owners.  But  you  can,  of  course,  take  your  trusty 
scissors  and  cut  out  a  paper-doll  personage,  stick  it  on  a  piece  of  white 
cardboard,  and  instruct  the  printer  to  "silhouette  as  cut  out."  It  is  much 


Original  picture  attached  to  white 
cardboard  backing,  with  register 
marks  in  position. 


safer — and  the  results  are  better  if  you  give  the  printer  a  transparent  overlay 
marked  where  the  edge  of  the  silhouette  is  to  appear.  By  far  the  best 
procedure  is  to  prepare  a  mask  on  acetate;  that  way,  you  are  in  total 
control  of  the  final  results. 

Here  are  diagrams  to  help  you  visualize  the  process. 


Method  1:  keyline  or  outline  in  ink 
(black  or  red)  drawn  on  tracing  paper. 


Method  2:  mask  cut  from  cut-and-peel 
overlay  film  (amber  or  red). 


Insert  the  silhouetted  personage  in  a  box 

The  contrast  between  the  head-and-shoulders  halftone  and  the  white  paper 
background  is  enhanced  by  deliberately  framing  a  piece  of  that  background. 
The  person  is  then  placed  in  an  individual  bubble  of  space  and,  if  the  box  is 
smaller  than  the  head,  can  appear  to  emerge  from  it  in  dramatic  fashion. 
Here  are  four  typical  variants. 


The  linework  can  be  done  by  the  printer,  but  it  is  best  done  by  you  on  an 
overlay  the  same  way  that  any  line  art  is  added  to  halftones. 


Add  quotes  and  identification  in  the  box 

The  combination  of  a  disembodied  photo  inside  a  defined  area  is  an  ideal 

starting  point  for  unusual  treatment  of  the  usual  name,  title,  and  function, 


and  an  opportunity  for  a  more-or-less-provocative  statement.  Be  as 
courageous  as  you  want  to  on  this,  because  here  is  a  chance  to  turn 
something  rather  ordinary  into  something  quite  extraordinary. 


Crop  courageously 

The  usual  shape  is  not  prescribed  by  law,  just  by  habit  and  laziness  of 
thought  and,  possibly,  lack  of  courage.  It  is  perfectly  acceptable  to  chop  off 
the  top  of  the  head  and  bottom  of  the  chin.  There  is  ample  precedent  even 
for  cutting  off  an  ear  or  two  (Van  Gogh  did  it  in  real  life!).  Here  is  President 
Lincoln,  taller  than  ever  because  of  the  extra-narrow  cropping;  George 
Washington  is  peeking  through  a  slit;  Ulysses  S.  Grant  is  right  up  close  to  you. 


^f--^<5! 


-J 


Keep  the  hands  in,  if  there  are  any 

They  may  well  be  more  expressive  than  the  face  itself.  And  they  invariably 
add  some  activity  to  the  image. 

—  ■  uy 


«  A 


Utilize  screens  other  than  the  expected  halftone 
Mezzotints,  steel  etch,  line  screen,  line  conversions,  and  the  like  (see  page 
130)  are  ideal  for  use  on  people  pictures,  but  they  must  be  used  boldly,  to 
make  it  quite  obvious  that  the  treatment  is  deliberate  and  not  a  mistake  or 

the  result  of  bad  printing. 


Bring  individuals  into  groups 

If  your  story  deals  with  several  people  who  are  connected  in  the  sense  of  the 
story,  perhaps  a  grouping  might  be  more  expressive  than  a  presentation  of 
the  individuals  as  ducks  in  a  row.  But  the  photographers  didn't  catch  them 
together,  and  several  of  the  pictures  are  of  individuals  who  submitted  their 
studio  portraits  after  the  fact.  What  do  you  do  then?  You  cheat:  You  take 
the  prints  you  have  and  have  copies  made — sized  in  such  a  way  that  the 
heads  measure  more  or  less  the  same.  The  easiest  way  to  do  that  is  to 
decide  on  a  standard  dimension  to  cover  the  distance  from  the  top  of  the 
head  to  the  bottom  of  the  chin  and  ask  the  photo  lab  to  blow  up  or  reduce 
new  prints  to  that  dimension,  given  a  reasonable  tolerance.  It  won't  be 
precise,  but  variation  within  reason  is  perfectly  acceptable  since  nobody's 
head  is  the  same  size  as  anybody  else's  anyway. 

When  you  get  the  duplicate  prints,  you  then  take  your  trusty  scissors 
and  carefully  cut  out  each  mug  shot.  Then  you  compose  them  in  such  a  way 
that  the  shoulders  overlap  in  ways  that  appear  natural,  with  some  people 
apparently  standing  behind  others,  nice  and  tight.  Any  kind  of  arrangement 
of  people  talking  to  each  other  or  people  talking  as  a  group  will  appear 
believable  and  realistic,  if  the  eye  level  remains  constant  and  in  alignment. 
You  then  glue  the  group  down,  using  rubber  cement  or  hot  wax  from  a  wax 
dispenser,  burnish  the  whole  thing  down  carefully,  and  your  art  is  ready 
for  the  camera.  The  more  precise  your  paper-doll-cutting  craftsmanship,  the 
better  and  more  realistic  the  final  result  will  be.  To  prevent  the  edges  of  the 
photo  paper  from  appearing  as  white  lines  in  the  printed  piece,  darken  them 
(only  in  the  dark  areas  of  the  photo)  by  running  the  edge  of  a  black  felt-tip 
marker  on  the  edge  of  the  paper  itself,  being  sure  not  to  mark  up  the  face  of 
the  photo.  Then,  when  the  edges  are  dry,  start  the  assembling  process. 
Darkening  the  edges  once  they're  in  place  is  impossible  if  you  want  to  avoid 
damaging  the  picture  beneath  the  one  you're  doctoring. 

Other  patterns  than  the  collage  of  silhouettes  described  here  are 
possible,  of  course — and  your  imagination,  common  sense,  and  editorial 
restraint  are  the  guiding  factors  as  to  what  to  do  and  how  far  to  go  with  it. 


Five  commonsense  principles  for  using  people  pictures 


People  ought  to  face  inward  into  the  spread 


The  direction  of  people's  gazes  ought  to  be  exploited 
The  curiosity  aroused  by  such  a  trick  may  well  impel  the  reader  to  turn  the 
page.  Remember  how  everyone  looks  up  at  the  sky  when  they  see  one 
person  doing  it?  Curiosity  is  a  powerful  motivating  force  and  the  direction 
in  which  people  are  looking — whether  in  real  life  or  merely  in  pictures — 
should  be  utilized.  It  works. 


Relationships  between  people  should  leap  to  the  eye 


Size  is  interpreted  as  a  measure  of  importance 

This  raises  political  problems,  unless  you  are  aware  of  it.  The  highest  ranking 
personage  gets  the  biggest  size,  the  next  rank  down  must  be  a  little  smaller, 
and  so  on.  Of  course,  you  could  decide  to  make  them  all  the  same  size. 
Rarely  does  it  become  possible  to  have  fun  with  sizes  for  purely  decorative 
or  superficial  purposes  of  design  and,  unfortunately,  what  you  may  perceive 
as  playfulness  is  likely  to  be  misinterpreted  by  the  reader  and  surely  by 
the  subjects  themselves. 


Editing  down  to  the  most  telling  image  pays  off 
That  is,  unless  those  extra  photos  help  to  show  a  variety  of  characteristics  or 
emotions,  or  unless  it  is  a  photo  essay,  of  course.  Where  the  story  (such  as 
an  interview)  flows  on  for  several  pages,  an  effective  and  enlivening  trick  is 
to  put  different  mug  shots  of  the  same  person  in  the  same  position  on  each 
successive  page.  It  ties  the  pages  together  and  creates  a  sequence  of 
images  whose  deliberateness  comes  across  more  strongly  for  its  regularity 
of  placement. 


Make  the  best  of  those  unavoidable  catalog  arrangements 


Croups  of  people  whose  existence  must  be  acknowledged  or  recorded  for 
some  reason — new  employees,  25-year  veterans,  honorees,  graduates,  and  so 
forth  ad  infinitum — have  to  be  accommodated  and  handled  as  neatly  and  as 
cleverly  as  possible.  They  are,  admittedly,  not  very  fascinating  raw  material, 
yet  the  publication  has  a  responsibility  to  show  them.  So  you  show  them: 
you  don't  make  a  feature  of  them,  you  give  them  as  little  space  as  is 
commensurate  with  the  dignity  of  the  subject  matter.  You  make  the  pictures 
as  unassuming  as  seems  right,  and  you  get  it  done  as  fast  and  expeditiously 


as  possible,  so  there  is  more  time  to  spend  on  areas  of  the  publication  that 
deserve  more  creative  attention. 

You  must  think  in  terms  of  pattern  making  when  facing  a  number  of 
mug  shots  and  biographies.  The  effectiveness  of  the  handling  must  be  sought 
in  the  group  rather  than  in  the  individual  images  themselves.  Such  grouping 
arrangements  can  vary  from  the  simplest  rectangle  to  all  sorts  of  arbitrary 
patterns  such  as  pyramids  or  other  geometric  shapes  that  are  seen  in 
depressing  variety  in  high-school  yearbooks. 


□DDnn 

nnnnn 

aDDDD 


□□□on 
crnnnn 
□□nnn 


DDU 

n      ^s 

noun 

DCI   pP 

nannn 

DDD  11 

nnnnnn  DDOQii 

nanap  am  ii 

nuDD  nn     ii 

nan  n      ^^ 

Adding  rules  (drawn  lines)  can  help  break  the  arrangement  into  smaller 
units  for  more  sensible  variety.  It  creates  contrapuntal  patterning  with  two 
elements:  the  rules,  which  define  a  geometric  structure  for  the  page,  and  the 
mug  shots  themselves,  which  create  a  smaller-scale  pictorial  spotting.  If  you 
also  separate  the  biographies  from  the  pictures  (leaving  the  identifying 
names,  of  course),  you  have  a  third  element  to  work  against  the  other  two. 


000  ggg 


Here  the  mug  shots  create  a  horizontal  emphasis  strong  enough  to 
camouflage  the  irregularity  of  the  words  beneath.  The  vertical  rules  organize 
the  space  most  visibly  and  thus  deliberately  by  extending  into  the  space 
above  the  mug  shots. 


D 


PD 


Postage-stamp-sized  mug  shots  appear  more  interesting  when  their 
placement  is  staggered  slightly.  The  vertical  rules  make  it  possible  to 
demarcate  the  four  vertical  slivers  of  space,  implying  that  each  sliver  is 
independent  of  its  neighbors.  The  spacing  between  the  mug  shots  in  each 


sliver  is  constant — making  makeup  very  simple.  The  success  of  this  trick  is 
to  have  enough  space  separating  the  pictures  from  the  description  at  the 
foot  of  each  column.  It  is  that  luxurious  empty  space  that  lends  drama  to 
the  arrangement. 

Here  are  three  slivers  of  space,  three  columns'  worth.  Each  is  divided 
vertically  into  two,  allowing  two  mug  shots  to  be  placed  next  to  each  other. 
The  horizontal  placement  of  the  mug  shots  is  the  same  in  all  of  them — there 
are  none  off  kilter  or  out  of  alignment  as  in  the  example  above.  What 
makes  the  arrangement  lively  is  the  arbitrary  omission  of  one  or  two  mug 
shots  In  the  right-hand  sliver  within  each  column.  The  left-hand  sliver  must 
remain  full  so  as  to  create  an  obvious  "belonging"  to  the  vertical  rule,  but 
the  right-hand  pictures  are  expendable.  Further,  to  emphasize  the  illusion  of 


ptfat? 


p 
nn 

Q 


flags  fluttering  from  a  vertical  mast  at  left,  it  is  important  to  leave  a  little 
more  space  at  "A"  than  there  would  be  had  the  area  been  subdivided 
arbitrarily  into  equal  parts.  As  in  the  examples  above,  the  words  act  as  a  foil 
to  the  decorative  pictures.  Cross-reference  between  them  by  numbering, 
lettering,  or  running  the  last  name  of  the  person  both  beneath  the  picture 
and  in  the  text  below. 


Cluster  individual  shots  into  close  groupings 


Here  is  where  the  greatest  fun  can  be  had  with  people  pictures.  Clearly,  this 
is  also  a  highly  specialized  situation,  where  a  greater  degree  of  importance  is 
intended  than  in  plain  catalog-type  presentations.  It  is  far  more  likely  to  be 
used  for  combining  two  or  three  personages  than  for  a  crowd. 


Frieze  run  across  the  top.  By  placing  names  in  the  empty  space  "behind"  the 
heads,  or  aligned  neatly  beneath  them,  you  have  a  good  opportunity  to 
contrast  the  clean,  neat  horizontal  alignment  of  the  mug  shots  with  the 
raggedness  of  the  columns  at  the  foot  of  the  page,  which  are  deliberately 
unaligned. 


The  same  frieze  run  across  the  foot  of  the  page.  This  is  a  much  more 
dramatic  arrangement  because  the  white  space  "behind"  the  people's  heads 
seems  to  flow  up  into  the  text  above  them  and,  by  so  doing,  makes  the  text 
belong  more  intimately  to  the  people  below.  This  illustration  would  not  exist 
were  the  columns  of  type  all  the  same  length,  rather  than  scalloped  as 
sketched  here.  Names  would  have  to  go  below  the  pictures  to  avoid 
disrupting  that  valuable  illusion  of  white  background  flowing  up  into  the  text. 


Vary  the  sizes  of  the  faces  arbitrarily.  Assemble  the  original  photos  the  way 
they  were  received — at  all  sorts  of  different  scales — to  create  a  grouping  where 
some  people  appear  close  up  in  the  foreground  and  others  far  away  in  the 
distance.  That's  the  effect  of  varying  sizes  creating  an  illusion  of  depth  in 
perspective.  Also  essential  to  this  effect  is  the  clearly  defined  edge  of  the  text 
above  the  mug  shots.  It  emphasizes  the  variations  in  the  pictures  by  its  own 
horizontal  precision. 


Vertical  overlapping  is  perfectly  possible  in  multipage  stories,  if  it  creates  a 
very  startling  effect.  In  this  case,  identification  of  individuals  other  than  by 
numbers  is  much  more  difficult.  Also,  it  is  somehow  implied  that  the  persons 
shown  this  way  are  going  to  be  referred  to  in  the  text  on  the  same  page  on 
which  their  photos  appear.  For  some  peculiar  reason,  the  informality  of  the 
horizontal  arrangements  shown  in  earlier  examples  does  not  carry  that  same 
implication.  Is  it  perhaps  because  the  horizontal  arrangement  looks  like  a 
party,  whereas  the  vertical  arrangement  is  more  closely  akin  to  catalog-type 
presentation? 


91 


Tips 
to  make 
more 
effective 
use  of 
pictures 


Let's  face  it:  Most  of  the  photographs  you  are  likely  to  be  faced  with  are  not 
very  exciting.  They  are  the  expected  view  of  an  ordinary  event,  scene,  or 
person  frozen  on  film  in  a  documentary  fashion — the  way  it  was.  You  are 
lucky  if  the  shot  is  crisp  and  in  focus  and  reasonably  well  lit,  and  the 
composition  sits  in  its  frame  comfortably.  As  far  as  having  much  reportorial 
value  or  point  of  view  is  concerned,  that's  rare  indeed.  Yet  that's  the  raw 
material  you  have  to  work  with.  You  have  only  two  options. 


Option  1 :  throw  the  ugly  ones  out 

But  how  can  you  publish  printed  matter  without  pictures  in  it?  Pictures  do  so 
much  to  attract  curiosity  in  readers,  open  them  up  to  accepting  information, 
enliven  the  product,  and  make  it  "interesting."  (Yes,  even  deplorably  dull 
pictures  have  that  effect,  because  readers  respond  to  visual  information 
so  much  more  readily  than  to  verbal  information.  It  is  much  less  work 
than  reading!) 

To  throw  them  out  is  too  drastic  a  step.  Besides,  if  you  have  no  pictures 
to  enliven  your  pages,  your  typography  will  have  to  bear  the  full  brunt  of 
pulling  readers  in  and  retaining  their  attention — a  task  that  is  perhaps  even 
more  daunting  than  facing  .  .  . 


Option  2 :  make  the  best  of  what  you  Ve  got 

A  crummy  picture  will  always  remain  a  crummy  picture,  no  matter  how  you 
doctor  it.  Don't  think  of  it  in  terms  of  improving  the  image,  because  that's  a 
problem  you  cannot  do  much  about.  Do  think  of  it,  rather,  in  terms  of 
editorial  value:  finding  what  is  worth  publishing  in  the  picture,  and  then 
focusing  the  reader's  attention  on  that  point.  That  inner  significance  makes 
the  original's  visual  shortcomings  unimportant.  It  justifies  the  picture's  use 
on  a  higher  level — not  just  as  decoration  for  the  page,  not  just  to  break  up 
the  type,  not  just  as  filler  for  empty  spaces — but  as  a  functional  segment  of 
the  communication  package. 

Under  such  conditions,  it  is  perfectly  legitimate  for  you  to  consider  the 
photo  as  malleable  material,  yours  to  do  with  as  you — the  editor — deem 
appropriate.  It  may  make  the  photographer  unhappy,  but  your  prime 
consideration  is  to  publish  a  story,  a  message,  significant  content,  and 


anything  that  helps  that  process  along  Is  likely  to  be  permissible.  It  is  the 
story  that  matters,  not  the  photographer's  feelings.  Again:  If  you  do  have 
fine  photography,  then  leave  it  alone.  Let  it  stand  on  its  own.  But  if  you  have 
ordinary  material  to  start  with,  then  summon  up  the  courage  to  tamper  with 
the  unprecious  image  for  the  sake  of  that  valuable  story.  A  whole  list  of  such 
tampering  trickery  for  the  sake  of  editorial  meaning  starts  on  page  105.  But 
before  you  delve  into  that,  it  is  necessary  to  understand  some  fundamentals 
about  pictures  in  publications.  These  are  the  normal  approaches  that  good 
pictures  demand. 

The  pretty  picture:  beguiling,  but  off  the  point 

Often  you  are  faced  with  the  problem  of  what  to  do  with  a  lovely  image — 
here,  available,  ready  to  use;  yet  paradoxically  you  know  that  it  is  a  side 
issue  and  doesn't  really  advance  the  cause  of  the  story.  In  fact,  it  may  well 
lead  the  reader  to  incorrect  conclusions.  What  to  do?  Rejecting  a  beautiful 
image  out  of  hand  may  well  rob  the  product  of  an  opportunity  for  uplift,  but 
it  is  worse  folly  to  pretend  that  it  adds  communication  value  to  the  story. 
(It  is  cheating  even  worse  to  twist  the  story  in  order  to  tie  the  picture  in 
somehow.)  Such  pretense  backfires  in  loss  of  credibility.  Instead,  be  honest: 
Use  the  picture  as  an  object  worthy  in  and  of  itself,  and  present  it  to  the 
reader  as  a  treat  to  savor  and  enjoy. 

Quarantine  it  in  a  box  away  from  the  story  itself;  build  it  into  the  story 
where  it  will  do  the  most  visible  good  to  the  product  as  a  whole,  rather  than 
the  story  itself;  run  it  as  a  precede  to  set  a  mood;  or  add  it  as  a  shirttail  at 
the  end  of  the  story.  Or  use  it  as  a  frontispiece  opposite  the  table  of 
contents,  or  refer  to  it  and  run  it  in  a  strategic  location  elsewhere,  like 
opposite  the  inside  back  cover.  In  short,  the  aim  is  to  give  it  the  requisite 
product-enriching  visibility  without  at  the  same  time  confusing  the  reader. 

The  awful  picture:  depressing,  but  informative  and  essential 

You'll  be  faced  with  this  situation  considerably  more  often  than  with  the 
opposite  problem  described  above.  Here  you  have  a  bunch  of  images — 
embarrassingly  bad  they  are,  too,  yet  inescapably  important  to  the  story — 
and  you  cannot  improve  on  them  because  there  is  not  time  and,  besides, 
the  subject  has  disappeared.  The  only  sensible  thing  is  to  use  them — but  not 
splashily.  Blowing  up  a  second-rate  picture  doesn't  improve  it;  all  that  does 
is  bloat  it  and  flaunt  its  inadequacy.  Instead,  run  such  pictures  small  and  near 
the  foot  of  the  page,  and  don't  attempt  to  catch  attention  with  them.  Instead, 
use  a  big  headline  or  some  other  technique.  But  remember,  photomechanical 
variations  on  originals  may  well  be  useful  trickery  (see  page  1  30). 

Have  the  courage  needed  to  use  that  unexpected  image 

Obviousness  is  probably  dull.  The  easiest  way  to  spice  up  the  story  (or  the 
entire  product)  is  to  accompany  it  with  unanticipated  imagery.  The  more 


startling  the  effect,  the  more  likely  it  is  that  a  dangerous,  courageous  decision 
has  been  made.  But  there  is  no  question  that  there  are  numerous  options  at 
the  editor's  disposal  that  ought  never  be  rejected  out  of  hand:  unusual 
viewpoints;  peculiar  lighting;  surprising  juxtaposition  of  elements; 
surrealistic  transpositions  of  function,  scale,  relationship.  They  don't 
necessarily  make  the  subject  funny  or  foolish;  they  do,  however,  add 
attention-getting  sparkle  to  a  page. 


How  bleeds  create  an  illusion  of  size 


First,  to  bleed  a  picture  is  to  print  it  right  out  to  the  edge  of  the  page. 
A  picture  thus  "bled"  is  called  a  "bleed." 


Let's  assume  that  we  have  a  photo  of  a  landscape.  When  it  is  printed  on 
the  page,  it  is  a  miniature  reproduction  of  that  original  view.  If  it  is  framed  by 
the  margins  of  the  page,  it  is  contained — held  in — imprisoned  by  that  page. 
But  if  the  picture  is  expanded  to  cover  those  margins,  the  image  appears  to 
burst  out  of  the  confines  of  the  page,  creating  an  illusion  of  continuation 
Into  spaces  beyond  the  page.  The  page  itself  becomes  merely  the  physical 
focal  point  of  a  much  wider  scene  in  our  imagination.  It  is  an  exciting  illusion 
if  you  have  the  right  subject.  What  you  have  to  do  is  look  at  your  picture 
with  great  care  and  decide  whether  the  illusion  of  continuation  is  appropriate 
to  the  subject  matter.  Are  the  significant  elements  in  the  picture  bleeding  off 
the  page?  In  this  landscape,  is  the  sky  or  the  foreground  or  the  river  at  the 
left  flowing  off  the  page?  The  blank  wall  that  is  a  neutral  background  to  a 
vase  of  flowers  would  not  be  a  sensible  subject  for  bleeding  off  the  page 
because  it  is  not  material  to  the  vase  of  flowers,  which  is  what  the  picture  is 
about.  Clearly,  editorial  judgment  has  to  come  into  play  here. 


Interrupt  the  margin  by  bleeding  pictures 


Live  matter  area 
(same  as  7"  x  10' 


Every  printed  page  has  a  live-matter  area  that  is  surrounded  by  a  frame  or 
nnargin.  It  might  be  appropriate  to  name  those  margins  here,  remembering 
that  nomenclature  varies,  but  these  are  fairly  standard. 

<^   Head  margin 


<^   Outside  margin 


4^  Foot  margin 
Cutter  margin 

Standard-sized  magazines  are  based  on  the  SVa"  x  11"  dimension.  But  as 
paper  costs  have  risen,  the  page  has  been  chopped  down,  until  It  now 
measures  about  8Vs"  x  10%",  which  are  irreducible  minimums.  Why? 
Because  ads  are  sized  to  a  standard  7"  x  10"  proportion,  and  publishers  must 
provide  a  page  large  enough  to  display  them — or  else.  The  reason  for  going 
into  this  rather  technical  side  issue  is  simply  this:  The  wider  the  margin,  the 
more  noticeable  any  interruption  becomes.  By  reducing  margins  to  the 
minimum,  magazines  have  robbed  themselves  of  the  capacity  to  surprise  by 
bleeding,  because  the  difference  between  bleed  and  nonbleed  is  so 
insignificant  that  it  is  hardly  worth  talking  about.  So  you  aren't  likely  to  be 
impressed  by  the  capacity  of  bleed  to  interrupt  the  flow  of  margins  and  thus 
gain  attention  for  your  picture  in  a  normal  magazine  any  more. 


™HB 

^"""J"^      OS    - 

"-—  — '  3^ 

'"'"""'    -    > 

Narrow  margins,  small  photos 


Wide  margins,  large  photos 


None  of  the  above  alters  the  principle:  Anything  that  interrupts  a 
pattern  attracts  attention.  Bleeding  does  exactly  that  if  the  margins  are  wide 
enough  to  be  discernible,  and  if  the  picture  that  is  made  to  bleed  is  big 
enough  to  make  it  worthwhile  pulling  such  a  special  stunt.  Warning:  To 
accomplish  the  trick  of  bleeding,  you  will  have  to  print  on  a  sheet  of  paper 
slightly  larger  than  the  finished  page  size.  After  the  printing,  then,  the 
sheet  is  trimmed  back  to  the  correct  page  size,  lopping  off  slivers  of  the 
bleeding  picture. 

Most  pages  are  printed  on  slightly  larger  sheets  anyway,  with  at  least 
Vs"  on  all  outside  edges  of  pages,  except  the  gutter,  where  the  pages  are 
folded  and  not  trimmed.  Clearly,  you  must  size  the  picture  to  be  Va"  bigger 
on  any  edges  where  it  will  bleed.  That  is  reasonable  and  logical.  What  is 


Typical  imposition  diagrams.  The 
various  standard  paper  sizes  offer 
various  page  combinations.  The 
printer  can  outline  the  available 
options  in  diagrams  like  these,  which 
are  essential  planning  tools  for  both 
bleeding  and  utilization  of  color. 


4 


infuriating  is  that  one  edge  of  the  sheet  of  paper  is  needed  by  the  press 
machinery  for  picking  up  and  passing  the  sheet  along  to  the  next  step  in  the 
printing  process.  That  narrow  edge  is  called  the  gripperedge  because — you 
guessed  it — that's  where  the  gripper  picks  it  up.  Unfortunately,  it  is 
technically  impossible  to  have  two  things  touching  the  paper  simultaneously. 
You  cannot,  therefore,  have  a  picture  bleeding  in  the  place  where  that 
accursed  gripper  will  be  doing  its  gripping.  Under  Murphy's  Law,  where 
everything  that  could  go  wrong  inevitably  will,  your  bleeds  will  fall  right  there 
You  must  therefore  check  with  the  printer  and  ask  for  the  imposition;  the 
printer  will  provide  you  with  a  diagram  showing  how  the  pages  fall  on  the 
sheet  of  paper  and  where  the  gripper  will  be.  You  can  then  shift  your  bleeds 
from  this  page  to  that,  or  make  the  printer  turn  the  sheet  around  to 
accommodate  your  bleeds.  In  any  case,  though,  check  with  the  printer 
about  any  premium  charge  for  bleeding  pictures,  for  it  is  better  to  be 
prepared  for  surprises. 


8  1 


s 

Zi 

6 

8 

4 

13 

16 

1 

Z   8 


Four-page  signature 


e 

9 

2 

7 

L 

01 

U 

9 

2 

15 

14 

3 

Sixteen-page  signature 


How  the  reader  interprets  meaning  through  size 

The  bigger  something  is,  the  more  important  we  think  it  to  be.  That  is  so 
obvious  that  we  take  it  for  granted.  But  once  we  realize  its  potential,  we  can 
use  the  principle  to  guide  our  decision  making  about  pictures.  It  affects  two 
distinct  areas  of  that  process. 

First,  are  we  just  using  the  picture  to  fill  up  an  empty  space,  and  if  so,  is 
it  worth  it?  Will  the  extra  size  given  to  an  unworthy  picture  mislead  the 
reader?  Or  worse,  will  it  devalue  our  technique  of  creating  emphasis  by  size 
next  time,  when  we  do  have  an  image  we  want  to  bring  to  the  reader's 


Here  s  a  picture  we  want  to  use  to  go  with  a  story  about 
"When  in  doubt  ask  a  policeman.  "  Don't  think  of  it  as  being 
a  tilling  for  a  predetermined  space  (though,  of  course,  it  will 
be  exactly  that  when  it  is  printed').  Instead,  see  the  original 
as  being  an  image  that  ought  to  be  given  a  size  that  is 
commensurate  to  its  importance  in  the  context  of  the 
story  — a  value  judgment  that  is  purely  editorial,  affecting 
the    design"  of  the  page,  of  course,  but  based  on  the 
intrinsic  value  of  the  original  — NOT  the  final  "beauty"  of  the 
page.  So:  give  it  the  size  it  deserves.  Do  not  fit  it  into  an 
arbitrary,  preconceived  hole. 


1-column:  a  subsidiary  image,  hardly  worth  being  there  for 
all  the  good  it  does  (so  minuscule). 


HyMf.'%  ^m^-i 


When  in  doubt, 
ask  a  policeman 


J  PL  ■?-i!45jr'^'**«iJii^B^i«H^****«:w 

•  * 

■..,*» 

rt 

"'^^: 

^^pS'i-r^P^ 

:L 

^^ 

kjsyi 

m 

^ 

1 

"^'^^^(fi^/B 

1 

When  indoubt,aska  policeman 


2-columns:  a  neutral  image.  OK  So  what? 


3-columns:  a  dominant  image.  Eye-catching  and  thought 
provoking.  The  story  flows  out  of  it. 


attention?  Making  an  unworthy  picture  bigger  than  it  deserves  to  be  just 
bloats  it. 

Second,  how  does  the  picture  relate  to  the  words?  How  do  they 
balance,  complement,  enhance  each  other?  This  area  of  analysis  affects 
mostly  the  opener  picture  and  the  headline  of  a  story,  since  there  is  a 
standard  pattern:  The  photo  is  intended  to  catch  the  reader's  attention;  the 
headline,  which  relates  to  it  as  precisely  as  a  caption,  then  focuses  the 
reader's  attention  on  the  idea  you  want  to  feature.  The  size  of  that  opening 
picture  should  grow  out  of  the  excellence  of  the  image — excellence  in 
terms  of  its  meaning  for  the  story — and  only  incidentally  out  of  its  beauty  or 
cleverness.  If  the  picture  is  beside  the  point,  don't  play  it  big.  If  it  is 
pertinent,  play  it  as  big  as  you  can.  Avoid  allowing  space  to  dictate  the  size. 
Instead,  start  with  a  value  judgment  and  then  find  the  space  to  display 
it  properly. 

The  first  impression  of  your  pages  is  communicated  by  the  sizes  of 
pictures  and  by  the  page  arrangement.  If  the  reader  learns  that  size  is  not 
arbitrary,  but  that  big  images  are  meaningful  in  terms  of  the  story,  every  big 
picture  will  then  be  a  strong  signal  for  attention,  leading  to  effective,  fast, 
intimate  communication  and  thus  a  better  product.  Don't  expect  readers  to 
realize  why  this  is  happening.  All  they  will  think  is  that  yours  is  an 
interesting  publication.  That  is  music  enough  to  an  editor's  ears. 


Why  it  is  wise  to  crop  the  picture  until  it  hurts 


This  is  the  retrofitting  you  have  to  go  through  if  the  photographer  didn't  get 
close  enough  to  the  subject.  What  you  have  to  do  is  to  search  out  in  the 
original  print  what  is  significant  about  it,  to  determine  which  part  of  the 
image  is  important  enough  to  publish.  All  the  rest  then  becomes 
expendable.  Expendable,  however,  is  too  weak  a  word — it  is  essential  to 
remove  unnecessary  material,  for  it  may  well  distract  the  reader's  attention 
from  what  you  as  editor  want  to  be  noticed. 

Furthermore,  changing  the  cropping  of  a  photo  can  alter  its  meaning — 


not  just  by  simplifying  or  homing  in  on  which  is  important,  but  by  other 
visual  implications.  Obviously,  every  picture  is  a  case  by  itself,  and  there  are 
no  rules.  The  only  rule  is  to  become  aware  of  the  possibilities  and  then 
follow  up  on  your  insight.  An  extra  added  attraction:  By  chopping  the 


original  down  to  its  irreducible  minimum,  you  can  use  what  is  left  at  a  much 
larger  size  and  with  much  stronger  impact;  or  you  can  gain  valuable  space 
on  the  page  by  running  it  smaller  than  it  otherwise  would  have  been. 


Crop  to  make  pictures  work  together  better 


A  picture  is  never  just  a  gray  rectangle  on  a  page.  See  it  as  a  piece  of 
communication  that  has  its  own  natural  sense  of  scale,  proportion,  feeling  of 
distance,  special  mood,  and  individual  statement,  and  it  is  much  more  than 
something  printed  on  the  surface  of  a  piece  of  paper.  It  is  the  illusion  of  a 
view  beyond  the  surface  of  that  paper.  As  such,  it  is  perfectly  logical  to 
perceive  the  photograph  as  though  it  were  a  view  through  a  window  and 
that  window  is  in  fact  a  hole  cut  through  the  wall  our  printing  paper 
represents. 


This  concept  of  a  picture  being  a  view  through  a  window  is  especially 
important  when  you  have  more  than  one  picture  to  accommodate.  How 
often  does  it  happen  that  there  are  two  images  that  have  to  run  next  to  each 
other  on  the  page,  yet  how  seldom  do  they  relate  to  each  other  visually! 
They  may  make  sense  together  in  meaning  or  as  illustrations  of  related 
events  happening  to  the  subject;  but  do  they  look  it?  Think  about  it  for  a 
moment:  Imagine  that  a  carpenter  has  come  to  cut  two  holes  in  that  far  wall. 
Let's  call  them  "windows": 


The  view  from  those  windows  has  a  unity — a  logical  connection  that 
we  expect. 


What  makes  the  two  views  compatible  is  size — or,  more  accurately,  the 
scale  of  the  things  seen  "out  there."  When  that  scale  is  in  balance,  the  view 
seems  to  continue  from  one  window  to  the  other. 


W^    M 


That's  why  this  macro/micro  cow  is  unrealistic.  The  unnatural  juxtaposition 
of  disparate  sizes  feels  wrong  and  disturbing. 


^i^ 

The  illusion  of  a  continued  view  applies  whenever  we  have  two  or  more 
images  of  similar  size  placed  in  close  proximity  on  the  page. 


't 

h 

1 

Readers  look  at  our  page  twice,  the  first  time  in  glancing  fashion,  to 
decide  whether  to  give  it  more  time  and  attention,  to  find  out  whether  it 
promises  to  be  interesting.  The  second  time,  when  they  have  been  hooked 
by  what  they  saw,  they  actually  pay  closer  attention — reading,  studying, 
and  absorbing. 

What  succeeded  in  bringing  the  readers  in?  Most  probably  it  was  the 
pictures,  if  the  headlines  managed  to  explain  their  significance.  And  even  if 
those  pictures  were  relatively  small,  they  could  have  seemed  important 
acting  as  a  huge  image  as  a  group,  if  they  were  made  to  blend  together  in 


scale.  Only  at  second  viewing  does  each  individual  image  gain  its  point- 
at  first  viewing  they  all  worked  together  to  create  this  synergetic  result 
where  1+1=3. 


Unrelated  scale:  These  two  photos 
don't  "work"  with  each  other, 
because  the  people  in  them  vary  in 
size  so  much  that  the  pictures  seem 
related  to  each  other  only  in  content 
and  overall  shape  and  size. 


Equalized  scale:  By  cropping  and 
enlarging  the  photo  at  far  right,  the 
two  images  have  been  brought  into 
balance.  They  now  appear  to  be  two 
views  of  the  same  event. 


Cropforcontinuity  of  the  horizon  in  neighboring  pictures 


Continuity  of  scale  is  the  first  fundamental  relationship  between  neighboring 
pictures,  if  you  see  them  as  views  from  windows.  The  second  and  intimately 
related  one  is  the  horizontal  relationship  between  adjacent  images.  This  basic 
relationship  is  so  seldom  regarded  that  it  might  be  an  interesting  exercise  to 
look  through  any  publication  for  two  adjoining  landscape  views.  Draw  a  line 
through  the  horizon  of  the  left-hand  picture,  then  draw  a  line  through  the 


101 


horizon  of  the  right-hand  picture.  One  hundred  to  one  they  don't  align! 
Do  they?  Why  not?  Because  nobody  thought  much  about  it,  because  they 
were  busy  sizing  and  cropping  the  pictures  to  fit  arbitrary  spaces  that 
happened  to  be  contiguous  without  thinl<ing  of  the  relationship  between  the 
pictures.  So  the  nonrelationship  you  get  looks  like  this: 


That's  the  result  of  tunnel  vision,  seeing  each  image  as  a  separate  entity. 
By  widening  that  tunnel  to  include  more  than  one  image  at  a  time,  you  can 
expand  the  e//ect  of  the  pictures.  It  is  much  like  coming  out  of  a  constricted 
vertical  canyon  onto  the  broad  plains  of  the  moon  (which  is  where  these 
NASA  pictures  happen  to  have  been  taken). 


By  cropping  to  make  the  horizon 
flow  from  one  image  into  the 
neighboring  one,  a  more  expansive 
overall  view  is  created. 


Edit  pictures  so  one  image  becomes  dominant 

There  are  very  few  situations  where  you  have  several  pictures,  each  of  which 
has  equal  value  to  the  story,  the  reader,  or  the  publication.  When  it  becomes 
quite  clear  in  your  mind  precisely  what  the  underlying  message  of  the  story 
really  is — its  reason  for  being  published — then  it  will  likely  become  obvious 
to  you  which  image  supports  or  embodies  that  idea  most  clearly  and 
effectively.  That  is  the  picture  to  use  big.  The  bigger,  the  better.  Even  if  it 
isn't  all  that  marvelous  in  terms  of  photography,  it  is  probably  marvelous  in 
terms  of  meaning.  Remember  that  we  are  in  the  business  of  publishing 
stories  and  not  photography  as  art! 

That  important  picture  then  will  carry  the  major  burden  of  intriguing 
the  reader  into  the  story.  To  help  it  do  that  job,  it  is  highly  effective  to 
support  it  with  small  images  if  you  have  them.  Why?  For  two  reasons. 
First,  if  you  want  to  make  something  big  look  remarkably  big  to  the  reader, 
you  have  to  contrast  it  to  something  tiny — that  way,  it  suddenly  becomes 
overwhelming.  Second,  the  big  picture  arouses  the  potential  reader's 
curiosity.  That  curiosity  can  be  at  least  partially  resolved  by  more  visual 
images.  They  work  faster  than  long-winded  verbal  explanations,  and  they 
themselves  can  start  fresh  directions  of  curiosity  that  force  the  reader  to 
delve  ever  more  deeply  into  the  hard  work  of  reading  the  text.  This  is 
especially  true  if  the  captions  have  given  additional  useful  information — 
though  not  all!  We  must  always  keep  the  reader  hungry  for  more.  If  that 
sounds  a  little  bit  manipulative,  so  be  it.  We  are  fighting  for  attention,  and 
the  end  justifies  the  means. 

Help  pictorial  scenes  by  cunning  page  arrangements 

A  sequence  of  ideas  or  thoughts  can  be  placed  on  the  page  in  such  a  way 
that  it  becomes  a  maze  for  the  reader  to  puzzle  through.  Or,  it  can  be  made 
simple  and  forthright  by  alignment,  overlapping,  growth  in  scale,  and 
numbering.  Sequences,  of  course,  are  the  most  elementary  examples  of 
thematic  subject  flowing  through  pictures.  Other  perhaps  less  obvious  but 
no  less  valid  relationships  ought  to  be  made  equally  evident  in  all  stories 
that  consist  of  more  than  just  a  hunk  of  text  with  a  couple  of  shots  thrown  in 
to  break  up  the  type. 


1 

2 

I 

4 

Uis 

■S  d  s 

e<^oeM,^: 

1 


r 


Cluster  small,  spotty  pictures  to  give  them  greater  visibility 


Peppering  pages  with  insignificant  odds  and  ends  is  less  impressive  and 
much  less  attention-getting  than  pulling  them  together  into  groups — if  such 
groups  make  editorial  sense,  that  is. 

How?  Dozens  of  techniques:  Place  them  on  a  unifying  background  of  a 
simple  shade  of  gray,  texture,  or  better  still,  a  symbolic  image  that  unifies 
them  by  sense  as  well.  Or  install  them  in  a  box  container  of  some  sort. 
Or  butt  them  close  together.  Or  deploy  them  within  an  encompassing  grid. 
Or  fix  them  in  a  graphic  net.  Or  give  them  repetitive  shapes  that  make  them 
links  in  a  connecting  chain.  Or  best  of  all,  juxtapose  them  so  that  one 
image's  meaning  flows  out  of  one  into  the  other.  Or — what  else?  There  must 
be  as  many  solutions  as  there  are  problems.  Devising  the  ideal  one  depends 
on  the  specifics  of  the  situation,  and  that  is  what  makes  this  profession  so 
rewarding  and  so  interesting. 


te^ 

= 

r 

iyi 

Link  images  to  create  a  cumulative  impact 


Often  a  story  cannot  be  told  in  merely  one  image — however  excellent  that 
image  might  be.  Two  or  more  are  needed  to  do  the  job.  This  applies  to 
sequences  over  time,  relationships  in  space,  development  of  ideas, 
contrasting  of  subjects,  and  so  on.  If  you  have  them,  use  them,  but  be  sure 
you  know  why  you  are  using  them.  Be  certain  of  the  editorial  points  you 
want  to  make  and  then  handle  the  pictures  in  such  a  way  that  those  points 
are  indubitably  made.  And  be  sure  you  aren't  using  more  than  the  minimum 
simply  because  it  is  easier  to  use  all  of  the  pictures  than  it  is  to  go  through 
the  mental  gymnastics  of  deciding  which  one  to  throw  out.  In  other  words, 
the  task  of  editing,  which  applies  just  as  much  to  pictures  as  it  does  to  words 
and  everything  else  we  print,  is  to  edit — to  be  courageous  in  using  the  blue 
pencil  and  the  wastebasket,  in  order  to  leave  only  those  sparkling  nuggets  in 
the  pan  (to  mix  a  few  metaphors  for  the  fun  of  it).  The  principle  is  simple: 
You  don't  improve  the  reader's  understanding  of  a  person's  character  by 
showing  more  than  one  dumb  picture  of  that  person.  If,  however,  you  have 
several  views  that  can  add  another  dimension  to  our  understanding  of  that 
person,  then  the  situation  is  changed.  Then  you  have  to  ask  yourself:  Which 
one  picture  embodies  those  characteristics  that  need  to  be  brought  out,  or 


are  they  all  Important,  or  do  we  hone  it  down  a  bit  by  showing  only  three  of 
the  six  available,  two  extremes  and  one  neutral  one  in  the  middle?  Such 
analytical  thinking  applies  to  any  group  of  pictures  you  may  have,  obviously 
not  only  to  people  pictures. 


How  to  expose  the  sense  of  the  story  in  pictures 


It  Is  often  possible  to  turn  an  uninspired  or  uninspiring  picture  into  a  sharp 
tool  for  communication  if  you  have  two  prerequisites:  clear  understanding  of 
what  it  is  you  are  trying  to  say,  coupled  with  the  courage  to  allow  nothing  to 
stand  in  the  way  of  your  saying  it.  As  mentioned  on  page  93,  and  strongly 
repeated  here:  This  is  not  the  treatment  of  choice  when  one  has  good 
photos  to  work  with.  It  is  the  treatment  of  desperation,  when  one  is  faced 
with  the  difficulty  of  illustrating  or  expressing  a  message  that  demands  visual 
aid,  yet  the  raw  material  available  cannot  stand  on  its  own  because  of  lack  of 
excellence.  In  other  words,  it  represents  85%  of  the  typical  editor's  normal 
predicament.  This  is  not  to  sound  cynical.  It  is  a  simple  statement  of  fact 
observed  over  years  in  the  business.  Only  some  15%  of  the  material  included 
in  a  publication  is  potentially  "exciting."  The  rest  is  pedestrian,  workaday,  and 
uninspiring,  and,  if  you've  been  at  it  for  any  length  of  time,  it  tends  to  be 
depressing.  It  follows  that  to  do  some  alchemy  and  turn  your  lead  into 
editorial  gold,  you  have  to  use  a  lot  of  imagination,  see  clearly,  decide 
forcefully,  and  carry  through  deliberately.  What  follows  is  a  list  of  gimmicks 
(to  use  a  pejorative  term)  that  are  not  gimmicks  when  used  correctly — where 
the  end  justifies  the  means.  There,  they  turn  into  techniques — a  much  more 
palatable  term.  Let  us  think  of  them  that  way. 

Clearly,  the  editorial  interpretations  of  any  of  them  depends  on  the 
specifics  of  the  situation,  the  particular  subject  matter,  the  context  in  which 
it  will  be  seen,  and  so  forth.  So  use  these  techniques  with  care  and 
circumspection,  and  don't  use  them  too  much  or  too  often;  do  use  them 
when  the  idea  or  the  product  would  be  poorer  without  them. 


Publish  pictures  of  pictures 


Normally,  the  image  in  the  photograph  is  what  gets  reproduced  on  the  page. 
What  is  forgotten  is  the  simple  fact  that  the  original  photo  was  an  object  in 
and  of  itself:  a  piece  of  paper,  a  thing  to  hold  in  the  hand  and  tear,  spindle, 
and  mutilate.  Why  not  reproduce  it  as  that  object?  That  way,  you  get  two  for 
the  price  of  one:  You  reproduce  the  image  (the  picture)  and  you  give  it  a 
special  flavor  of  being  seen  as  something  more  than  just  that  image.  How? 
By  one  or  more  of  the  following  tricks. 


Tilt  it  at  an  angle  on  the  page.  That  way  it  immediately  ceases  to  belong  to 
the  column  pattern.  You  indicate  this  to  the  printer  by  drawing  a  rectangle 
on  the  page  where  the  picture  is  intended  to  go. 


105 


Emphasize  nonbelongingness  by  making  it  appear  to  "float"  above  the 
surface  of  the  paper  by  casting  a  shadow.  There  are  several  ways  to 
accomplish  this.  The  easiest  is  to  make  an  overlay:  Take  a  piece  of  tracing 
paper  and  draw  the  shadow  line  in  black  ink.  For  more  details  on  how  to 
make  overlays,  see  page  84.  If  you  prefer,  you  can  manufacture  those  lines 
out  of  any  of  the  many  rub-off  or  stick-on  tapelike  products  available  at  any 
art  supply  shop.  They  come  in  a  variety  of  widths,  and  all  you  do  is  chop  off 
a  piece  and  make  it  adhere  to  the  overlay  paper.  A  little  trickier,  although 
much  more  interesting  to  look  at,  is  to  make  the  shadow  a  bit  fuzzy  and 
transparent — not  pitch  black.  That  is  much  more  realistic.  You  accomplish 
this  with  a  soft  pencil  on  an  overlay.  The  technique  takes  practice,  and 
the  end  product  also  has  to  be  reproduced  as  a  halftone  and  stripped  to 
the  picture  itself. 


Frame  the  image.  Most  pictures  have  a  sliver  of  white  edge  framing  the 
actual  image.  It  is  hard  to  reproduce  that  sliver  of  whiteness,  for  nobody 
would  notice  it  printed  on  white  paper.  Instead,  one  creates  the  illusion  of 
that  sliver  by  printing  a  thin  line  or  rule  around  what  would  be  that  frame, 
and  the  reader  perceives  our  intentions.  The  printer  can  scribe  this  line  on 
the  negative  for  you,  or  you  can  do  it  for  yourself  on  the  mechanical,  or  on 
an  overlay  on  that  mechanical. 


Mutilate  the  paper  of  which  the  photo  is  made.  Turn  a  corner  over,  curl  it  in 
some  way,  tear  off  an  edge.  How?  Again,  by  combining  the  photo  with 
hand-drawn  art  that  describes  your  idea.  It  is  best  drawn  in  black  ink — and 
perhaps  in  this  kind  of  venture  it  is  wiser  to  get  the  help  of  a  professional 
pen  pusher,  because  the  illusion  is  dependent  on  good  draftsmanship.  But 
first  you  have  to  explain  the  idea  of  what  you  want  done  to  your  draftsperson. 
If  these  diagrams  are  not  detailed  enough,  see  Graphic  Idea  Notebook,  also 
by  this  author. 


Combine  several  pictures  by  an  informal  arrangement  of  overlaps  to  make 
them  appear  as  though  they  had  fallen  onto  the  page.  This  obviously 
requires  a  carefully  crafted  mechanical  that  both  instructs  the  printer  as  to 
which  picture  goes  where  and  to  what  size,  and  also  gives  the  requisite  line 
art  (outline  of  the  "frames"  and  "shadows")  that  is  an  essential  ingredient 
of  the  illusion. 


Add  naturalistic  symbols  to  the  pictures  that  might  help  in  getting  your 
desired  illusion  to  work  more  colorfully  or  strikingly.  Paper  clips,  photo 
corners,  a  piece  of  an  envelope  out  of  which  the  pictures  have  fallen,  the 
stub  of  a  pencil — you  name  it.  They  can  all  be  incorporated  into  the  setup, 
either  as  individual  elements  to  be  stripped  in  or  as  integral  elements  of  the 
overlays.  Get  the  printer's  advice  on  technique,  but  don't  allow  yourself  to 
be  discouraged  or  talked  out  of  the  idea.  (By  and  large,  printers  tend  to  be 
conservative.  Sad  experience  has  made  them  that  way.) 


Run  the  pictures  with  the  photographic  paraphernalia  surrounding  them — 
film  sprocket  holes,  sheet  film  frames,  notches,  35mm  slide  sleeves,  and  so 
forth.  How  do  you  manufacture  that?  There  are  so  many  variables  that 
professional  advice  should  be  sought  here. 


Bring  attention  to  the  important  part  of  the  image 

This  goes  beyond  merely  cropping  (that's  like  losing  excess  weight  around 
the  edges).  Here  we  are  talking  of  major  surgery:  carving  away  what  isn't 
wanted — going  as  far  as  one  can — in  fact,  silhouetting.  That  simply  means 
you  print  only  that  part  of  the  photo  you  deem  useful  and  do  not  show  the 
rest.  How?  There  are  two  basic  methods,  neither  of  which  is  difficult. 

In  the  first  method  you  instruct  the  printer  as  to  what  you  want  done 
by  drawing  a  keyline  or  outline  on  an  overlay  over  the  photo.  All  the  halftone 
dots  on  the  inside  of  the  line  are  to  print.  All  those  on  the  outside  of  the  line 
are  to  be  removed.  How  the  printer  accomplishes  this  is  something  you  need 
not  concern  yourself  with.  All  you  need  to  worry  about  is  the  accuracy  of 
your  line,  which  must  be  drawn  in  a  clean,  thin,  ink  line  and  must  be 
accurately  keyed  to  the  photo.  Furthermore,  you  must  also  worry  about  not 
marring  the  surface  of  the  original  photograph  with  ruts  left  by  pencils 
tracing  over  the  surface.  The  emulsion  of  a  photograph  is  very  soft  material 
and  marks  easily,  and  any  such  marks  can  appear  in  the  reproduction  as 
highlights  or  shadows. 

The  second  method  is  to  make  a  mask.  This  does  part  of  the  work  for 
the  printer.  You  have  to  use  a  piece  of  material  that  will  protect  the  area 
you  want  to  print  and  allow  the  unprotected  area  to  be  burned  away 
(overexposed)  by  the  printer's  halftone-making  camera.  The  material  is 
regularly  available  in  sheets  or  rolls — yes,  it  is  expensive — at  art  supply 
shops.  You  ask  for  amber  or  red  cut-and-peel  film.  (The  amber  color  is  easier 
to  see  through.)  You  place  it  over  the  original  and  carefully  draw  the  outline 
of  your  desired  image  with  a  cutting  blade.  You  then  peel  away  the  amber 
film  from  the  area  you  do  not  want,  and  that's  all  there  is  to  it.  As  always, 
key  the  overlay  to  the  original  with  targets  or  X-marks. 

What  has  just  been  described  is  known  as  a  silhouette  halftone — silo  or 
silho  for  short.  Obviously,  it  is  more  expensive  than  the  plain  halftone. 
Anything  that  isn't  a  plain  halftone  is  inevitably  more  expensive.  But — used 
right — the  effect  is  cheap  at  the  price. 

There  is  a  third  method  you  should  never  use.  You  never  cut  out  the 
original  picture  with  a  pair  of  scissors.  The  only  time  you  ever  do  that  is 
when  you  are  combining  pictures,  such  as  a  group  of  mug  shots  in  which 
you  overlap  shoulders.  But  even  then  you  would  get  duplicate  prints  to  do 
that,  if  you  are  at  all  circumspect!  For  normal  silhouettes,  work  on  overlays 
and  let  the  printer  accomplish  your  results  for  you. 

Another  technique  for  drawing  attention  to  a  specific  feature  in  an 
image  is  to  make  the  important  area  appear  crisper,  lighter,  darker,  or 
somehow  more  clearly  defined  than  its  surroundings.  If  you  are  describing  a 
cog  in  a  machine,  you  have  to  show  both  the  cog  (which  is  what  the  story  is 
about)  and  the  machine  (which  is  the  context  of  the  cog).  But  it  is  hard  to 


find  a  cog  in  a  maciiine.  Therefore,  you  have  to  create  some  sort  of  contrast 
in  order  to  draw  attention  to  your  important  cog. 

Make  the  surroundings  paler  or  darker.  This  can  be  achieved  in  several  ways, 
the  easiest  of  which  are: 

D      To  give  the  original  to  a  photo  retoucher  who  sprays  the  background 
with  lighter  or  darker  paint,  leaving  the  cog  as  is.  This  is  obviously  a  fairly 
expensive  proposition,  but  essential  if  that  cog  is  a  complicated  object  or  if 
the  background  is  tricky  to  handle. 

D      To  make  an  outline  or  a  mask  on  an  overlay,  just  as  in  the  preparation 
for  silhouetting.  Then,  you  instruct  the  printer  to  ghost  or  lighten  up  by 
overexposing,  or  conversely,  darken  the  area  you  want  to  disappear  a  bit. 
You  can  control  the  degree  of  ghosting  or  darkening  by  expressing  it  in 
percentages.  One  hundred  percent  is  deemed  to  be  "as  is"  in  the  original. 
Ninety  percent  of  original  is  10%  ghosted,  or  made  paler  by  a  factor  of 
10%,  and  so  on. 


Use  different  kinds  of  screens  for  the  cog  and  the  surrounding  machinery. 
The  finer  the  halftone  screen,  the  better  the  detail.  On  very  good  paper  you 
can  print  comfortably  using  a  150-line  screen  (that  means  there  are  150  dots 
to  every  inch  in  both  directions).  On  newsprint  stock,  you  usually  use  a  much 
coarser  screen:  65  lines  per  inch,  or  even  55.  By  using  the  150-line  screen  for 
the  cog  and  the  55-line  screen  for  the  machine,  you  can  contrast  textures. 

Use  color.  Run  one  of  the  elements  in  color,  the  other  in  contrasting  black 
and  white.  Or  add  an  overprinting  tint  over  the  surroundings  and  let  the  cog 
appear  crisp  black  and  white,  or  any  number  of  other  such  combinations. 
Clearly,  this  is  more  complicated  to  think  through,  but  it  is  no  more  difficult 
to  accomplish  technically  than  any  of  the  others.  All  you  need  is  that  simple 
guideline  to  instruct  the  printer's  platemaker  as  to  which  part  of  the  picture 
is  to  be  treated  which  way. 


o 


Add  line  art  to  the  picture  that  emphasizes  the  cog  in  question — arrows  ^^-^^ 
pointing  to  it,  circles  encircling  it,  asterisks  referring  to  it,  fists  [[t2fp  highlighting 
it,  and  so  forth.  All  of  these  can  be  done  as  drawings  or  bought  in  a  store,  be 
they  rub-off,  stick-on,  or  clip  art  that  has  to  be  glued  on  an  overlay  and 
keyed  to  the  original  photo.  The  lines  are  then  dropped  out  from  the 
halftone,  if  you  want  them  to  appear  white  against  the  picture,  or  surprinted 
or  stripped  in  if  you  want  them  to  appear  in  black  against  the  picture.  You 
must  determine  which  you  prefer  by  studying  the  darkness  of  the  picture 
area  in  which  the  line  work  will  be  seen.  If  the  background  is  very  pale, 
obviously  dropping  out  in  white  will  make  the  line  work  invisible;  therefore, 
you  must  surprint  it.  If  the  area  is  very  dark,  obviously  you  must  drop  out  the 
line  work  in  white.  If  the  backdrop  is  medium,  you  flip  a  coin  and  hope  for 
the  best.  In  any  case,  whenever  it  is  medium  gray,  it  is  wise  to  make  your 
line  work  bolder,  using  thicker  lines  or  larger  symbols,  so  that  whatever  you 
do  use  will  be  more  likely  to  be  seen  against  that  neutral  background. 


Do  things  with  the  edges  of  the  pictures 


Fuzz  them  out  so  that  they  are  vignetted — so  there  are  no  definite  edges  at 
all.  Fade  the  picture  away  into  the  white  paper  as  though  it  were  disappearing 
into  a  fog.  This  has  to  be  done  by  a  retoucher  using  sprayed-on  paint. 


Make  rounded  or  other  unusually  shaped  corners.  The  printer  can  do  this 
for  you  if  you  specify  the  radius.  (A  quarter-inch  is  about  right.  Anything 
smaller  tends  to  be  insignificant,  and  going  much  bigger  tends  to  make  it 
look  horsey.) 


Surround  the  picture  with  a  ruled  line.  This  is  a  favorite  mannerism  of  some 
magazines  to  make  them  look  different.  It  is,  however,  particularly  useful  in 
publications  printed  on  newsprint  stock  where  the  edges  of  photographs 
tend  to  disappear,  especially  when  they  show  light  areas  such  as  the  sky. 
Defining  the  edge  with  a  line  makes  the  product  appear  much  crisper. 


Frame  the  picture  with  an  outline  of  the  object  through  which  the  view  is 
seen,  such  as  a  keyhole,  porthole,  window,  mirror,  or  the  like.  The 
surrounding  symbolism  of  the  shape  will  probably  have  to  be  stripped  in 
as  line  art.  The  shape  itself  must,  of  course,  be  indicated  on  an  overlay. 


Shape  the  picture  into  geometric  shapes,  such  as  circles,  triangles, 
rhomboids,  trapezoids,  or  anything  else.  Indicate  it  on  an  overlay. 


Manipulate  the  image  for  symbolic  purposes 


Analyze  what  the  thrust  of  the  story  is  and  how  you  can  turn  the  ordinary 
illustration  into  more  of  an  expression  of  concept.  For  instance: 


Show  vibration  or  up-and-down  motion,  as  in  this  example.  Don't  try  to  be 
literal  about  it.  A  picture  of  a  pothole  is  not  very  inspiring,  nor  is  a  picture  of 
a  road  with  a  tiny  invisible  spot  on  it  (labeled  "pothole").  Instead,  illustrate 
what  the  potholes  do  to  the  driver:  Bump-a-da-bump!  Take  a  duplicate  of 
the  photo  (never  destroy  the  original,  you'll  be  sure  to  need  it  some  other 
time!)  and  cut  it  up  in  slivers,  then  repaste  them  out  of  alignment.  Result — 
bumps  that  you  feel  in  the  pit  of  your  stomach. 


Show  danger,  shattering  explosion,  as  here.  See  the  standard  skyline  picture 
as  a  fragile  object  made  of  glass,  and  then  appear  to  shatter  it.  How?  The 
simplest  possible  ruse:  Paint  the  outline  of  shards  in  ink  on  an  overlay  and 
then  reverse  them  or  drop  them  out  in  white  from  the  background  picture. 


'y^^i 


Show  threat,  fear,  or  menace  by  running  the  photo  as  a  negative.  Reversing 
the  light  and  the  dark  throws  our  perception  out  of  kilter.  It  is  spooky, 
upsetting,  and  startling,  and  it  can  be  a  very  strong  statement.  Just  inform 
the  printer  that  you  want  this  image  run  as  a  negative  and  that,  yes,  you 
know  what  vou  are  doing. 


To  show  the  What  as  well  as  the  How  when  all  you  have  is  a  picture  of  the 
What,  add  line  drawings  growing  out  of  the  image.  Such  extension  drawings 
can  expand  the  original  image  into  a  broader  understanding  of  the  context 
of  the  picture.  The  photo  is  the  focal  point  of  a  larger  image  encompassing 
the  entire  subject  matter.  The  drawing  is  done  on  an  overlay  the  same  size 
as  the  photograph,  and  the  two  are  keyed  to  each  other  so  that  the  two 
separate  pieces  of  film  (halftone  and  line)  are  then  stripped  together 
accurately  without  a  gap  between  them  to  spoil  the  illusion. 


To  show  the  makeup  of  a  complex  object,  split  the  image  into  its  component 
parts  and  describe  each  of  those  parts  in  a  separate  caption.  This  merely 
represents  a  more  complex  cropping  and  sizing  problem  and  calls  for 
accurate  instructions  to  the  printer. 


To  create  an  illusion  of  motion,  tilt  the  horizon,  even  when  there  isn't  any 
movement  in  the  picture  at  all,  or  when  you  need  to  emphasize  speed.  This 
is  the  sort  of  situation  where  a  photocopy  sized  to  the  printed  size  is 
essential:  You  can  actually  chop  it  up  the  way  you  want  to  see  the  final 
halftone.  A  dry  run  for  such  trickery  is  usually  a  good  safety  measure. 


Use  partial  silhouetting  to  emphasize  action 


When  you  look  outside  your  window,  you  feel  protected  from  the  view  by 
the  wall  that  is  between  you  and  the  outside.  It  may  be  storming  out  there, 
but  you  are  comfycozy  in  here. 


Now  imagine  that  you  are  looking  out  at  a  horrid  seven-headed  dragon, 
it  is  not  terrifying,  because  it  is  so  far  away  that  it  appears  tiny. 


But  when  that  seven-headed  hydra  waddles  closer,  it  is  a  little  more 
unpleasant:  It  is  getting  bigger.  Yet  we  have  that  protective  wall  between 
us  and  it. 


As  it  comes  closer,  the  flimsiness  of  our  protecting  wall  becomes  a  major 
factor  in  our  feeling  of  safety  and  involvement.  Will  it  hold? 


Will  the  dragon  break  the  glass  and  shove  one  of  its  slobbering  heads  in  to 
bite  us? 


The  wall  is  the  publication's  page;  the  window  is  the  photo.  Photos  are 
illusions  of  windows  in  walls,  but  so  long  as  that  window  has  a  rectangular 
outline,  the  view  appears  "out  there"  and  we  are  uninvolved  spectators 
"in  here"  (and  we  can  take  the  dragon  or  leave  it,  as  we  wish).  But  when  that 
distinction  between  "out  there"  and  "in  here"  is  blurred  by  the  breaking  of 
that  rectangular  outline — by  the  insertion  of  an  element  of  the  object  "out 
there"  into  the  inner  space  "in  here" — we  are  immediately  forced  to  pay 
attention;  we  are  no  longer  in  control,  the  dragon  is.  Partially  silhouetting  a 


"M 


picture,  having  an  active  element  poke  out  of  it,  is  a  compelling  trick  to  gain 
the  reader's  attention.  How  do  you  do  it?  In  precisely  the  same  way  you 
prepare  a  complete  silhouette:  by  drawing  an  overlay  that  shows  the  edges 
of  the  picture  that  you  want  to  appear  as  the  rectangular  halftone  and 
includes  the  parts  that  poke  out  beyond  that  rectangle.  Of  course,  you  can 
also  cut  it  out  of  the  masking  overlay  material.  It  must  be  done  the  size  of 
the  original  photo,  and  the  printer  then  reduces  it  to  the  required  size 
for  printing. 


Combine  words  with  pictures  so  1+1=3 


Place  the  name  of  various  elements  needing  identification  around  the 
outside  of  the  picture,  instead  of  putting  them  in  a  long  caption  that  nobody 
wants  to  read  and  that  is  invariably  hard  to  decipher.  Then  lead  arrows  from 
the  words  to  the  actual  element  in  the  picture.  This  turns  a  photo  of  a 
probably  uninteresting  object  into  a  visual  diagram — in  itself  much  more 
fascinating  to  study. 


As  far  as  those  words  themselves  are  concerned,  they  must  be  physically 
attached  to  an  overlay  on  the  original  so  that  you  can  coordinate  them  with 
the  arrows.  That  requires  you  to  attach  the  original  photograph  to  a  piece  of 
illustration  board  large  enough  to  accommodate  the  space  that  will  be 
needed  for  the  words.  If  the  original  is  an  8"  x  10"  print,  then  that  board  is 
likely  to  be  a  monster.  (But  don't  worry,  you  can  buy  it  20"  x  30"  as  a 
standard  size,  and  30"  x  40"  is  also  available,  although  that  is  perhaps  a  little 
excessive.)  The  words  themselves  can  be  typeset,  cut  out  and  glued  on, 
or  handwritten. 

Whichever  you  choose,  remember  that  the  reduction  from  the  original 
will  have  to  be  taken  into  account.  So  if  your  original  comes  down  to  half 
the  original  size  (focus  50.0),  your  lettering  will  need  to  be  twice  the  size  of 
what  you  want  it  to  be.  Most  likely,  you  will  want  a  type  size  of  about  9  point 
for  legibility.  That  then  means  you  must  have  your  words  set  at  18  point 
so  that  they  will  reduce  to  9  point  in  the  final  version.  The  equivalent 
proportions  must  be  used  for  handwriting. 


117 


As  far  as  the  arrow  lines  are  concerned,  those  are  drawn  or  attached  to 
the  overlay  also.  They  should  not  be  too  thin,  or  they  will  disappear  in  the 
halftone — which  defeats  the  purpose  of  the  exercise.  If  they  appear  printed 
on  white  paper  surrounding  the  halftone,  obviously  they  will  need  to  be 
black.  But  if  the  arrows  appear  on  the  picture  itself,  you  will  have  to  instruct 
the  platemaker  as  to  whether  you  want  the  lines  to  drop  out  in  white  or 
surprint  in  black.  That  decision  depends  on  the  darkness  of  the  areas  in  the 
picture  through  which  the  lines  pass.  There  is  no  reason  that  some  should 
not  be  white  while  others  are  black.  It  is  money  well  spent  if  you  get  a  result 
that  communicates  clearly.  If  you  have  another  color  available,  then  you  can 
start  having  more  fun — but  remember  to  specify  that  the  rules  must  all  be 
dropped  out  from  the  black  in  order  to  make  a  clean  white  background  for 
the  color  to  print  on.  Otherwise  your  precious  color  may  not  be  visible  over 
the  black  ink  of  the  picture. 

Should  the  arrows  have  arrowheads  or  dots  at  the  end,  or  should  they 
be  plain  lines?  Your  personal  aesthetics  and  common  sense  come  into  play 
here.  Dots  look  technical.  Arrows  add  an  active,  dynamic  atmosphere.  Plain 
lines  are  simple  and  elegant. 

It  is  perfectly  possible  to  make  up  the  photo  with  just  the  arrow  lines 
inserted  by  stripping  in  from  an  overlay  on  the  original,  and  to  have  the 
descriptive  words  appear  in  type  on  the  page  itself.  That  way  you  avoid 
having  to  get  all  that  outside  typesetting  and  a  huge  overlay.  But  errors  are 
easier  to  make  on  a  small  scale.  However,  if  there  is  lots  of  wording  to  be 
accommodated,  perhaps  this  is  the  wisest  way  to  handle  the  problem. 

Another  technique  is  to  place  the  words  in  relation  to  the  object  inside 


^^ 


BYJOVE! 

Howdiditgethere? 


the  picture,  rather  than  in  relation  to  the  outside  rectangle  of  the  picture. 
The  geometry  of  the  page  is  usually  made  up  of  rectangular  elements 
working  with  each  other  by  alignment,  stacking,  centering,  and  so  on.  To  get 
extra  mileage  from  pictures  where  it  makes  sense,  why  not  break  away  from 
this  norm  and  knit  the  words  with  the  picture  more  intimately?  Drop  them 
out  of  the  picture,  surprint  them,  lead  them  from  the  pictured  object  out  into 
the  surrounding  spaces.  Anything  is  acceptable  if  It  grows  out  of  the  sense 
and  meaning  of  the  photo  and  the  editorial  idea,  and  if  it  is  graphically 
handled  so  that  all  the  words  are  truly  legible. 

To  be  sure  the  idea  is  workable,  it  is  advisable  to  obtain  a  photocopy  of 
the  picture  in  the  intended  size,  have  the  words  set  in  type,  adhere  them  to 
an  overlay  in  the  desired  position,  and  give  instructions  to  the  printer  as  to 
stripping  in  in  black  or  dropping  out  in  white. 


You  need  just  a  modicum  ofo  \ff^^  ^  to  make  cliches  sparkle 


n'estcepas? 


Inescapable 
technicalities 
about 
pictures 


Must  all  originals  be  black-and-white  prints? 


Can  you  use  color  prints?  Or  35mm  transparencies  ?  Or  bigger  chromes 
(color  transparencies)?  What  about  Polaroid''"'*^  shots? 

It  is  perfectly  possible  to  reproduce  any  of  these  in  black  and  white, 
although  quality  and  cost  may  affect  your  decision.  The  best  results  and  the 
cheapest  processing,  however,  are  to  be  expected  from  plain  black-and-white 
prints  (normally  8"  x  10"  or  5"  x  7").  The  glossy  finish  of  the  emulsion  allows 
reproduction  of  the  subject  matter  with  the  greatest  precision  and  crispness. 
Other  finishes,  such  as  matte,  silk,  sepia  tone,  and  the  like  are  available,  and 
you  may  be  forced  to  use  them  when  Important  Personages  supply  you  with 
studio  portraits  to  use  as  mug  shots.  They  are  less  likely  to  give  you  as  good 
a  result  as  the  plain  old  black-and-white  glossy. 


Contact  sheets 

The  roll  of  35mm  black-and-white  film  is  developed  and  then  usually  cut 
into  strips  of  six  or  seven  exposures  and  assembled  for  printing  same  size 
onto  an  8"  x  10"  sheet  of  paper.  This  gives  the  photographer  and  editor  the 
entire  "shoot,"  allowing  them  to  choose  which  shots  should  be  blown  up  for 
possible  use.  Enlargements  are  usually  made  to  8"  x  10"  or  5"  x  7".  The 
contact  sheet  is  an  extra  cost,  of  course,  but  it  is  useful  as  a  catalog  of  what  is 
on  the  negative  for  future  use.  It  is  also  much  cheaper  than  enlarging  the 
entire  batch. 

To  discern  details  in  such  tiny  images,  it  is  necessary  to  study  the 
pictures  through  a  magnifying  glass  or  loupe,  available  in  various  degrees  of 
quality  at  camera  or  art  supply  stores.  8X  magnification  is  most  common. 
Mark  the  pictures  you  want  with  a  grease  pencil  or  felt-tip  marker  on  the 
contact  sheet,  and  send  it  together  with  the  negatives  back  to  the  lab  for 
processing.  You  can  indicate  cropping  by  outlining  the  area  of  each  picture 
that  you  want  enlarged  and  printed.  In  your  instructions  to  the  photo  lab, 
refer  to  each  picture  by  number,  for  example,  "Contact  Sheet  No.  X, 
Frame  Y,"  since  each  contact  sheet  and  picture  is  numbered. 


Prints  in  color 

They  are  as  good  to  reproduce  from  as  black-and-white  prints,  as  long  as 
they  have  a  smooth,  glossy  finish.  The  cameraman  shooting  them  for 
halftones  may  opt  to  use  filters,  and  the  new  platemaking  machines  are  also 
equipped  with  processing  variations  that  accept  color  originals.  But  if  those 
originals  are  printed  on  textured  paper,  fuzziness  in  the  reproduction  is 
practically  unavoidable. 

It  is  possible  to  print  black-and-white  prints  from  color  negatives  if  the 
correct  paper  is  used.  Check  with  your  photo  lab.  Incidentally,  it  is  wiser  to 
work  with  a  professional  photo  lab  than  the  cheaper  mass-production  or 
drugstore-type  photo  services.  The  labs  give  individual  attention,  can 
improve  the  quality  of  the  prints  by  handwork,  and — most  importantly — 
will  help  you  with  practical  advice. 

When  reproduced,  instant  photos  in  color  seem  to  lead  to  mushy 
results,  unless  the  originals  have  been  very  skillfully  shot. 


Transparencies 

Transparencies  of  whatever  size  must  first  be  converted  to  black-and-white 
prints;  the  prints  then  become  the  "art"  that  is  reproduced.  The  most 
faithful  reproduction  of  color  to  black  and  white  requires  making  an 
internegative  from  which  the  black-and-white  print  is  then  taken.  Naturally, 
internegs  cost  money,  and  however  well  they  may  be  made,  they  remove  the 
final  product  a  step  further  away  from  the  original;  quality,  crispness,  and 
detail  cannot  help  but  suffer.  Such  second-step  black-and-white  prints  are, 
however,  better  to  reproduce  from  than  color  prints  made  from  color 
transparencies  (unless  you  pay  for  custom  printing,  which  is  horrendously 
expensive). 

All  the  above  applies  only  to  reproducing  photos  in  black  and  white. 
For  full-color  ("process  color")  or  two-color  ("matched  color") 
reproduction,  you  need  good,  crisp  transparencies  of  whatever  size,  or 
you  can  use  reflection  copy  (such  as  a  painting)  as  originals. 


Pictures  already  printed  elsewhere 

Often  you  may  only  have  an  existing  halftone  as  original  copy.  The  safest  way 
to  handle  this  is  to  reuse  it  at  exactly  the  same  focus  (same  size — unless  you 
choose  to  chop  off  an  edge  here  or  there,  of  course).  That  way  you  are 
reproducing  the  original  as  though  it  were  line  art,  dot  for  dot.  It  is  bound  to 
get  a  bit  cruder,  but  that  will  seldom  be  noticeable;  the  dark  areas  will 
probably  turn  muddy  and  highlights  become  less  sparkling,  but  you  can  live 
with  that.  If  you  find  that  it  is  unavoidable  to  reduce  the  original,  it  is  wise  to 
ask  the  printer  or  platemaker  whether  it  is  possible  to  have  the  item 
rescreened  (that's  some  magic  with  angled  screens  and  what-not  that  you 
don't  need  to  know  the  technicalities  of).  It  ought  to  give  surprisingly  good 
results.  A  disaster  is  liable  to  happen  only  if  you  have  to  enlarge  the  original, 
because  when  you  do  that  the  dots  grow,  and  the  results  look  as  coarse  as 
newspaper  photos.  This  may  well  be  an  interesting  trick  when  you  are 
looking  for  trickery,  but  as  a  good  reproduction  of  a  photo  it  leaves  much 
to  be  desired. 


How  can  you  tell  that  the  picture  is  the  right  way  'round? 


Transparencies  can  easily  be  printed  flopped  left  to  right  by  mistake. 
Furthermore,  when  you  have  the  transparency  itself,  it  is  often  hard  to  tell 
which  is  front  and  which  is  back.  Here  are  a  few  pointers — which  are  not 
100%  infallible! 


By  common  sense 

Does  lettering  on  street  signs  or  book  spines  read  backward  in  the  picture? 

If  so,  flop  left  to  right — unless  the  signs  happen  to  be  in  Arabic. 

Is  the  man's  jacket  breast  pocket  on  his  right?  Then  it's  wrong.  If  he's 
only  wearing  a  T-shirt,  then  you  are  in  trouble.  Check  the  part  in  his  hair. 
Most  men  part  their  hair  on  the  left.  Buttons  help:  Men  button  clothes  left 
over  right;  women  do  it  right  over  left,  for  some  peculiar  reason.  You  have  to 
put  yourself  in  the  subject's  place  to  figure  that  one  out. 

Steering  wheels  on  cars  are  on  the  left  (except  in  Great  Britain),  and  they 
are  mostly  driven  on  the  right-hand  side  of  the  road  (except  in  scenes 
of  accidents). 

There  must  be  other  obvious  signs,  but  let's  get  technical. 


By  emulsion 

The  negative  gives  you  two  clues.  First,  the  shiny  side  should  be  toward  you, 
the  dull,  emulsion  side  should  be  toward  the  paper,  away  from  you.  Second, 
if  you  are  seeing  the  film  the  right  way,  you'll  be  able  to  read  the  trademark 
and  the  numbers  in  the  margins  of  the  film  material  itself.  Your  contact  sheet 
will  also  show  these  markings  legibly,  assuming  you  have  a  contact  sheet 
available  to  check  your  prints  against.  The  same  principle  applies  for  color 
prints  as  for  black  and  white. 

If  you're  working  with  color  slides,  the  shiny  side  of  the  slide  should  be 
toward  you,  the  dull  side  with  the  emulsion  on  it  away  from  you.  Dullness  is 
often  hard  to  identify,  but  if  you  turn  the  transparency  at  a  slight  angle  to  the 
light,  you  can  clearly  see  contourlike  ridges  on  the  edges  of  the  color  areas. 
They  are  caused  by  the  different  combinations  of  layers  of  emulsion.  The 
side  with  the  contours  should  face  away  from  you. 


By  notches  in  sheet  film 

The  first  thing  to  check  for  is  whether  there  is  any  kind  of  wording  on  the 
edge.  If  you  can  read  it,  then  you  are  looking  at  it  the  right  way  around. 
The  second  thing  to  check  for  are  the  notches.  Sheet  film  (anything  4"  x  5" 
and  up)  has  actual  notches  cut  from  the  top  left-hand  corner.  They  are  there 
for  practical  reasons:  to  help  the  photographer  insert  the  film  into  the 
camera  correctly,  to  help  the  lab  technician  print  it  correctly  in  the  dark,  and 
to  distinguish  one  type  of  film  from  another  by  the  patterning  of  the  notches 
themselves.  It  doesn't  matter  whether  the  piece  of  film  has  been  used  as  a 
vertical  or  a  horizontal.  You  must  turn  it  around  until  the  notches  appear  at 
the  top  on  the  left-hand  side.  If  you  cannot  achieve  that  goal,  flop  the 
picture,  and  it  will  work.  Alas,  you  cannot  depend  on  this  100%,  because 
duplicate  transparencies  are  often  made  emulsion  side  to  emulsion  side  to 


achieve  optimal  quality — and  so  the  notches  end  up  on  the  wrong  side  of  the 
dupe.  How  can  you  tell?  You  can  only  guess  and  hope.  You  have  a  50/50 
chance  of  being  right,  which  is  pretty  good  odds,  especially  if  you  say  the 
magic  words  ("To  hell  with  it"). 

A  vital  point  to  remember  about  flopped  pictures  comes  at  the  stage 
of  production  when  the  printer  submits  proofs  of  the  pages  prior  to  printing. 
These  are  called  blues  when  they  are  printed  in  blue  or  Vandykes  when  they 
are  printed  in  brown  (there  is  a  color  called  vandyke  brown  after  the  Dutch 
painter  Van  Dyck)  or  brownlines,  or  by  various  other  locally  used  names.  It  is 
very  easy  for  the  page  assembler  (the  stripper  or  compositor)  to  flop  the 
negative  by  accident  and  strip  it  in  flopped  left  to  right.  Then,  if  a  man's 
pocket  turns  out  to  be  on  the  right  side,  which  is  wrong,  mark  the  cut 
(old-fashioned  term  for  "picture")  with  this  sign  /q)  ,  which  means  Wop  left 
to  right.  (It  also  means  turn  upside  down,  but  never  mind,  you  will  also  write 
"Flop  left  to  right"  in  words  alongside,  and  it  will  be  understood.) 


Why  and  how  do  you  crop  pictures? 


Cropping  means  working  out  how  to  alter  the  existing  proportions  of  an 
original  so  that  it  will  fit  into  a  space  of  a  different  proportion  on  the  printed 
page,  probably  smaller  than  the  original.  (How  to  get  it  to  the  right  size  is  a 
question  of  "scaling,"  which  we  will  cover  shortly.)  So,  for  instance,  if  your 
original  is  rectangular  and  you  have  a  square  hole  to  fill,  you  will  have  to 
determine  which  part  or  parts  of  the  original  rectangle  you  will  sacrifice  in 
order  to  produce  the  requisite  square  shape.  In  principle,  that's  all  there  is  to 
it.  In  practice,  however,  how  do  you  do  it?  Well,  you  do  not  physically  cut  up 
the  original — ever.  You  mark  on  the  edges  where  you  wish  it  to  be  cropped. 


4/i" 


using  a  blue  grease  pencil  (made  of  wax,  but  everybody  calls  it  a  grease 
pencil).  It  rubs  off  easily  by  wiping  with  a  tissue  dipped  in  rubber-cement 
thinner.  If  a  hunk  of  the  grease  pencil  falls  off  and  gets  stuck  to  the  face  of 
the  picture   it  will  probably  not  show  in  the  reproduction  if  the  pencil  is  blue. 
If  it  is  red,  it  will  certainly  be  visible,  because  red,  under  the  kind  of  light 
used  for  making  halftone  reproductions,  turns  black.  Ordinary  pencil 
doesn't  write  on  the  shiny  emulsion  of  the  print.  A  ball-point  pen  makes 
indentations,  and  the  ink  cannot  be  removed.  Other  inks  tend  to  smudge — 
permanently,  in  the  wrong  places.  Avoid  writing  on  the  back  of  the 
photographs.  If  you  do,  you  run  the  danger  of  embossing  the  writing  into 
the  emulsion  from  behind. 

If  the  photo  has  no  white  border  on  which  to  make  the  marks,  glue  it 
to  a  piece  of  blank  paper  with  double-faced  sticky  tape  and  make  the  marks 
on  the  paper.  A  few  more  technicalities  on  this  minor  aspect  of  how  to 
inform  the  platemaker  are  discussed  on  page  127. 

To  help  you  determine  how  and  where  to  crop,  you  can  buy  a  device  that 
is  very  impressive  looking.  It  has  two  L-shaped  templates  attached  to  a  bar 
on  which  they  slide  so  that  they  can  be  fastened  in  the  position  you  find 
correct.  The  device  is  particularly  useful  for  reproportioning  a  group  of 
pictures  all  to  the  same  shape.  You  can  also  make  your  own  device  by  cutting 
the  two  templates  out  of  illustration  board.  By  placing  these  Ls  on  top  of 
each  other,  you  can  move  them  in  any  direction  and  to  any  size,  as  far  as  the 
length  of  the  arms  will  allow.  Then  you  can  determine  which  part  of  the 
photograph  you  wish  to  have  reproduced  and  make  your  marks — only  in  the 
margin  of  the  photograph — according  to  where  the  L  has  been  placed. 


How  do  you  scale  pictures  to  the  size  you  want  them  to  be? 


Scaling  is  sometimes  also  called  sizing— for  obvious  reasons.  It  is  simply 
figuring  out  the  dimensions  of  an  original  print  to  make  it  fit  into  a  usually 
smaller  space  on  the  page.  Normally,  only  one  dimension  of  that  space  is 
known  (the  width,  because  we  tend  to  conform  pictures  to  the  width  of  type 
columns).  So  the  question  is:  If  you  know  that  a  picture  needs  to  be  3"  wide, 
how  high  will  it  be,  assuming  you  use  the  original  the  way  it  is  without 
cropping  any  of  it?  There  are  six  techniques  that  can  be  used. 


By  arithmetic 

Let's  assume  you  have  an  8"  x  10"  print  that  you  must  fit  into  an  area  3"  wide. 
How  do  you  find  the  height?  The  formula  is  simple: 

original  width    _  desired  width 

original  height       desired  height 

8"  _  3" 

10"      X 

cross  multiply:  8"  x  X  =  3"  x  10" 

X,       30" 


=  3.75" 
This  is  slow,  cumbersome,  and  daunting  to  the  nonmathematically  inclined. 


Yes,  the  same  thing  can  be  done  on  a  calculator,  but  the  necessity  to  turn 
fractions  of  inches  into  decimals  for  the  calculation  and  then  back  into 
fractions  again  makes  it  even  more  difficult.  In  the  future,  when  we  do  all  our 
measuring  metrically,  the  struggle  will  be  less  difficult.  But  for  now,  there  is 
another  way  out:  We  can  do  all  our  measurements  and  calculations  in  picas, 
as  typography  is  measured.  Unfortunately,  here  we  come  up  against  one  of 
those  anomalies  in  the  publishing  business:  The  typesetters  work  with  picas, 
whereas  the  photo  people  (processors,  platemakers)  work  in  inches  and 
dislike  picas.  Yet  the  page  assemblers  (the  film  strippers)  have  to  marry  the 
two  units  of  measurement  together,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  inches  do  not 
coordinate  with  picas  very  cleanly.  No  doubt  this  will  all  be  resolved  when 
everything  is  done  on  the  computerized  grids  on  cathode  ray  tubes,  and 
when  all  our  old-fashioned  picas,  points,  inches,  and  even  centimeters  will 
be  turned  into  units  or  bytes  or  what-not.  Although  these  systems  are  being 
introduced  in  large  operations,  it  will  be  some  time  before  they  trickle  down 
to  our  humble  level  of  endeavor. 


By  geometry 

If  you  take  your  original  and  trace  its  rectangular  shape  on  a  sheet  of  paper, 
you  can  then  work  out  how  it  will  enlarge  or  diminish  by  a  very  simple 
process  of  draftsmanship.  First,  you  need  to  draw  a  diagonal  from  one  corner 
of  the  rectangle  to  the  other,  and  extend  it  out  into  the  space  beyond. 

You  then  have  to  extend  one  of  the  width  lines  of  the  original  diagram, 
like  this:       y  ^^ 


Z.^^ 


1^ 


OV|CT.lA.<i-l    Si 


You  then  measure  the  desired  dimension  that  you  know  (probably  one  that 
corresponds  to  your  column  width).  Once  you  have  defined  that  point,  you 
can  draw  a  line  at  right  angles  from  it,  to  meet  the  diagonal.  That  will  give 
you  the  vertical  dimension  of  your  new  rectangle. 


This  is  fairly  time  consuming;  you  have  to  be  an  accurate  draftsperson, 
and  it  isn't  really  useful  when  you  have  a  great  many  pictures  to  handle. 
It  is  a  useful  trick  to  remember,  however,  when  you  have  to  manipulate  an 
image  or  two  in  some  way. 


By  a  proportioning  grid 

This  is  a  useful  tool  purchasable  at  art  supply  dealers.  You  position  the 
corner  of  the  photograph  under  the  riveted  corner  of  the  machine;  rotate 
the  movable  arm  to  the  corner  diagonally  opposite — and  the  reduction  or 
enlargement  of  that  proportion  can  be  read  off  anywhere  the  diagonal  arm 
intersects  the  vertical  and  horizontal.  These  instructions  sound  dauntingly 
complicated,  but  are  in  fact  child's  play. 


By  a  proportioning  device 

This  is  also  an  instrument  available  at  art  supply  shops.  It  consists  of  two 
L-shaped  transparent  plastic  angles  attached  to  each  other  by  a  free-floating 
diagonal  rod;  one  end  is  a  pivoting  device,  the  other  has  a  sliding  and 
fastening  gimmick.  The  purpose  of  this  device  is  to  determine  cropping  as 
well  as  scaling  simultaneously.  It  is  easy,  once  you  read  the  instructions  that 
accompany  the  machine.  The  great  advantage  of  its  complicated  looks  is 
that  it  is  a  very  impressive  object  lying  on  the  desk.  It  is  also  fast  and  easy 
to  use,  however. 


By  a  proportioning  wheel 

Often  called  an  engraver's  scale,  it  comes  in  two  shapes:  the  straight  version, 
reminiscent  of  an  engineer's  slide  rule,  or  the  same  thing  bent  around  into  a 
circle.  The  slide-rule-shaped  gadgets  are  somewhat  archaic.  The  circular  ones 
are  the  cheapest  as  well  as  the  most  widely  used  and  most  easily  obtainable, 
because  they  are  flat,  light,  compact,  cheap,  and  efficient.  The  larger  the 
diameter,  the  easier  it  is  to  read  off  the  various  scales,  and  the  more  accurate 
the  result  will  be. 

The  two  circles  are  marked  off  in  inches.  The  inner  one  represents  the 
original  sizes;  the  outer  one,  the  desired  future  sizes.  You  turn  the  inner  circle 


around  until  the  original  dimension  aligns  with  the  desired  dimension.  Then 
all  other  dimensions  will  be  shown  in  proportion  so  that  you  can  read  off 
whatever  you  need.  Again,  in  words  it  sounds  complicated;  in  reality,  given 
three  minutes  of  practice,  it  is  easy.  The  great  advantage  of  the  circular 
proportional  scale  is  that  it  also  has  a  window  cut  into  it  where  you  can  read 
the  enlargement  or  reduction  percentage.  So  it  automatically  gives  you  the 
"focus"  with  no  extra  action.  Example:  If  you  place  the  1"  mark  on  the  inner 
circle  opposite  the  1 "  mark  on  the  outer  wheel,  the  percentage  will  show 
100.  But  if  you  put  the  1"  mark  on  the  inner  scale  against  the  2"  mark  on  the 
outer  scale,  the  percentage  will  show  200  (which  is  correct — after  all  you  are 
blowing  it  up  to  twice  the  original  size).  That's  all  there  is  to  it. 


By  using  a  calculator 

If  you  can  follow  formulas  with  trigonometric  functions  and  press  magic 
buttons,  you  can  somehow  succeed  in  eliciting  the  needed  answers.  If  you 
know  how  to  do  that,  however,  you  are  a  National  Asset  and  ought  to  be 
helping  to  balance  the  budget,  or  at  the  very  least  forecasting  when  the  next 
comet  is  going  to  collide  with  Earth. 


How  do  you  inform  the  cameraman  about  what  you  want? 


It  is  interesting  for  you  to  know  the  shape,  size,  and  configuration  of  the 
picture  on  the  upcoming  page,  but  it  does  you  no  good  unless  you  can 
instruct  the  cameraman  who  will  be  making  the  halftone  film.  And  those 
instructions  had  better  be  clear,  concise,  and  legible,  or  it  will  cost  money 
and  time  for  remakes.  The  cameraman  or  platemaker  (working  at  the  printer 
or  in  some  cases  as  subcontractor  to  the  printer)  expects  you  to  give  those 
instructions  in  one  of  three  different  methods. 

1 .  By  attaching  a  tag  to  the  picture  giving  a  focus  value.  These  focuses 
are  expressed  as  a  percentage  that  the  cameraman  transfers  onto  the 
machine  that  exposes  the  film.  Those  percentages  correspond  to  the  percent 
enlargement  or  reduction  of  the  original  that  you  desire:  100%  is  the  same 
size,  labeled  as  "SS"  on  the  original;  50%  equals  half  the  size  of  the  original; 
200%  is  twice  the  size  of  the  original  or  "twice  up";  75%  is — what? 
Correct:  three-quarters  of  the  original.  If  you  want  to  appear  knowledgeable, 
talk  "focus."  If  no  cropping  is  to  be  done,  all  the  cameraman  needs  is  the 
desired  focus  and  your  result  will  be  shrunk  or  swollen  to  the  right 
percentage.  But  if  you  want  to  crop,  then  you  have  to  show  the  cameraman 
where  to  do  so. 

2.  By  marking  the  required  dimensions  on  the  margins  of  the  photo 
using  blue  grease  pencil.  (For  more  on  this,  see  page  124.)  One  further 
caveat  should  be  added  to  what  you  find  there.  Never  draw  instructions  on 
overlays  over  the  photo  using  pencil  or  ball-point  pen.  The  emulsion  will  be 
furrowed  by  such  hard  instruments,  and  the  ridges  will  show  up  in  the 
reproduction  as  thin  shadow  lines  or  highlights. 

3.  By  giving  the  cameraman  a  photocopy  of  the  original  made  to  the 
desired  size  and  cropped  to  the  desired  shape.  Such  images  are  then 


duplicated  in  film  by  the  platemaker.  This  is  the  most  expensive  method,  but 
it  is  ideal  because  it  enables  you  to  work  out  the  result  you  want  precisely. 
And  you  can  be  reasonably  sure  that  the  cameraman  will  follow  instructions. 


What  will  the  picture  look  like  when  it  is  reduced? 


It  is  hard  to  know,  without  having  had  some  experience,  whether  the  image 
will  disappear  and  become  illegible  when  it  is  made  smaller,  or  whether  it 
will  hold  its  own.  There  are  several  methods  of  finding  out. 

Look  at  it  through  a  reducing  glass.  This  is  obviously  not  a  very  accurate 
method,  but  it  works  in  a  rough  kind  of  way,  and  a  reducing  glass  costs 
about  what  a  good  magnifying  glass  does. 

Project  it  in  a  projector.  A  variety  of  machines  are  available,  all  of  varying 
design  and  capacities  that  affect  the  size  of  original  art  a  machine's 
copyboard  can  accommodate  and  the  degree  or  reduction  or  enlargement 
possible  on  it.  Of  course,  if  you  would  use  such  a  projector  only  seldom,  the 
investment  in  a  lucy  (as  it  is  generally  called)  may  not  be  amortized. 

Have  a  reduction  made  on  a  photocopier.  Many  machines  can  reduce 
originals  down  to  a  set  of  standard  focuses:  98%,  74%,  and  65%  on  some 
machines;  95%,  75%,  62%,  50%,  and  45%  on  others.  You  can  combine 
focuses,  ordering  a  reduction  of  a  reduction,  and  come  pretty  close  to  what 
you  imagine  the  final  ought  to  look  like.  Naturally,  electrostatic  copiers  don't 
give  you  very  good  reproductions  of  your  pictures,  so  details  may  be  lost — 
which  defeats  the  purpose  of  the  exercise. 

Have  a  photostatic  copy  made.  Photostat  is  the  name  for  a  negative/positive 
process  using  inexpensive  materials,  and  the  result  is  called  a  "stat"  for  short. 
New  materials  and  processes  have  been  invented  that  are  slowly  replacing 
stats,  but  the  name  lingers  on.  Depending  on  the  kind  of  paper  used,  the 
photostat  can  be  shot  as  a  halftone  or  as  a  continuous  tone,  to  your  desired 
size.  You  then  crop  it  according  to  your  wishes.  One  shot  (usually  priced 
according  to  the  paper  size  used)  will  set  you  back  several  dollars;  if  you 
have  several  originals  that  can  be  shot  to  the  same  focus,  gang  them  up 
to  fit  in  one  larger  shot.  That  way  you  get  more  for  your  money.  The  only 
problem:  If  some  originals  are  very  dark  and  others  are  very  pale,  the 
operator  won't  be  able  to  adjust  the  exposure  to  improve  on  the  originals 
but  will  need  to  shoot  at  an  average. 

Unless  you  supply  Veloxes  (defined  on  page  1 30)  with  the  mechanicals, 
the  printer  will  need  to  make  a  halftone  anyway,  so  you  could  gamble  and 
ask  him  to  shoot  them  ahead  of  time  and  send  you  proofs  (salt  proofs — 
cheap  prints  that  tend  to  disappear  in  time,  or  warren  prints,  which  are 
similar)  for  your  assessment  and  possible  remake  to  a  different  size.  Chances 
are  you'll  not  need  to  reorder. 


what  is  a  halftone? 


A  photographic  print  shows  a  gradation  of  tones  ranging  from  white  to  black 
in  a  continuous  blending.  This,  alas,  cannot  be  reproduced  in  printed  media 
the  same  way.  It  must  be  turned  into  a  printing  plate  whose  results  appear 
similar,  but  whose  technology  takes  the  limitations  of  the  printing  process 
into  account.  The  limitation?  That  you  can  only  print  straight,  solid  black 
ink,  and  any  "graying  down"  of  that  ink  must  be  achieved  by  trickery. 

By  rephotographing  the  original  photo  through  a  mesh  or  screen,  the 
original  continuous  tones  of  the  image  are  broken  into  a  pattern  of  tiny  dots. 
The  dots  appear  in  a  regular  pattern,  but  within  that  regularity,  one 
irregularity  is  possible:  variation  in  the  size  of  the  dots.  Where  the  dots  are 
tiny,  less  ink  is  transferred  to  the  paper,  more  paper  shines  through  between 
the  dots,  and  the  result  appears  as  a  pale  or  light  gray.  Where  there  are  no 
dots,  it  appears  white — or  as  white  as  the  paper  will  allow.  Where  the  dots 
are  big,  the  result  looks  dark  gray.  Where  the  dots  touch  each  other,  the 
result  is,  of  course,  black.  That's  practically  all  there  is  to  it. 

If  you  are  using  newsprint  to  print  on,  the  surface  of  the  paper  is 
absorbent.  If  you  use  heavy,  shiny,  "coated"  stock,  the  surface  is  hard, 
reflective,  and  nonabsorbent.  The  kind  of  paper  you  are  using  (as  well  as  the 
printing  technology  itself)  affects  the  choice  of  screen  that  is  appropriate. 
Absorbent  paper  makes  each  dot  a  little  bit  fuzzy,  so  the  dots  need  to  be 
more  widely  spaced.  Coated  stock  resists  absorption  of  ink  into  its  fibers,  so 
each  dot  remains  precise  and  clearly  defined;  even  if  they  are  smaller  the 
dots  will  retain  their  precision.  Screens  are  specified  in  number  of  lines  per 
inch:  65  is  coarsest,  150  is  probably  the  finest  you  are  likely  to  use. 
Newspapers  use  about  an  85-line  screen.  Normal  magazines  usually  use 
120-  or  133-line  screens.  The  finer  the  screen,  obviously,  the  closer  to  the 
original  the  result  looks.  The  printer  will  tell  you  which  screen  should  be 
used  for  your  particular  combination  of  stock,  printing  processes,  ink  type, 
pressrun,  and  so  forth.    That  decision  is  out  of  your  hands,  but  you  ought  to 
know  about  it. 

You  should  also  know  that  the  shorthand  for  "halftone"  in  all 
communications  in  the  trade  is  "HT."  You  can  also  write  it  as  "1/2 T." 


Who  makes  halftones? 


The  printer's  cameraman  or  the  reproduction  service — or  you,  if  you  are 
a  do-it-yourselfer. 

The  printer  almost  always  has  a  platemaker  on  staff  to  make  the  printing 
plates.  In  offset,  the  actual  plate  that  does  the  printing  is  made  from  a 
negative.  That  negative  of  a  halftone  is  made  by  the  platemaker  to  the  size 
and  cropping  specified  by  the  editor  or  designer.  That  negative  is  then 
stripped  in  on  the  page,  along  with  negatives  that  have  been  made  of  type 
and  all  other  elements  supplied  by  the  editor  on  the  mechanical.  Many 
editors,  however,  prefer  making  up  the  pages  as  paper  paste-ups  so  they  can 
control  the  entire  process.  In  such  cases,  what  you  need  instead  of  the 
negative  film  is  a  halftone  positive  print.  Where  does  that  print  come  from? 


129 


The  printer  can  make  a  contact  print  from  the  negative,  or  you  can  bypass 
the  printer  altogether  and  order  a  Velox  from  a  reproduction  house.  Velox  is 
the  name  of  the  Kodak  paper  used.  It  is  more  expensive  than  the  next 
option,  but  the  results  are  brighter  and  more  contrasting.  As  always,  you 
get  what  you  pay  for. 

You  can  also  order  a  PMT  (photomechanical  transfer)  instead  of  a 
Velox.  This,  too,  is  a  Kodak  product  that  is  faster  and  considerably  cheaper, 
although  somewhat  flatter  in  appearance.  Obviously,  all  halftone  prints 
must  be  made  to  the  size  you  require  for  printing.  You  can  save  money 
by  ganging  up  several  shots  and  having  them  made  into  PMTs  together — 
if  they  are  all  to  the  same  focus,  of  course,  and  if  they  are  more  or  less 
similar  in  their  tonal  values.  The  operator  of  the  PMT  machine  can  vary 
exposure  a  little  to  create  darker  or  lighter  results,  but  that  won't  do  you  any 
good  if  your  ganged  materia!  varies  all  over  the  lot,  because  it  can  only  be 
shot  on  an  average  setting. 

Usually,  the  Velox  or  PMT  is  shot  to  the  correct  focus,  but  you  receive 
It  from  the  supplier  uncropped.  In  other  words,  the  entire  original  is 
reproduced,  leaving  the  actual  cropping  up  to  the  person  who  is  going  to 
be  making  the  paste-up.  This  simply  means  that  you  will  have  to  work 
extremely  carefully  to  trim  the  excess  parts  of  the  picture  accurately,  cleanly, 
and  straight.  For  that,  you  will  need  a  steel-edged  ruler,  single-edged  razor 
blade  or  cutting  knife,  and  a  good  set-up  to  mark  right  angles  accurately. 
There  is  a  hidden  problem  with  doing  it  yourself:  It  takes  time. 

You  can  make  screened  prints  in  your  own  darkroom  by  placing  the 
halftone  screen  over  the  paper  that  you  will  be  exposing.  If  you  are  confident 
enough  of  your  own  technique  to  have  such  a  set-up,  however,  you  certainly 
don't  need  generalized  instructions  here. 


What  are  photomechanical  variations? 


The  plain  halftone  reproduces  the  original  photograph  by  turning  it  into  an 
array  of  dots,  which  are  usually  circular,  although  some  quality  printing 
processes  demand  oval-shaped  dots.  It  is  not  ordained  that  only  dots  be 
used,  but  they  do  yield  the  optimal  reproduction  of  the  original,  so  if  you 
want  detail,  dots  are  what  you  need.  If  you  are  willing  to  give  up  detail  for 
the  sake  of  drama  or  startling  special  graphic  effect,  then  any  number  of 
different  screens  exist  that  will  yield  spectacular  results   Here  are  a  few 


What  is  a  linecut? 


Clearly,  these  will  cost  more  money — but  if  they  are  used  spectacularly  to 
get  visibility,  the  investment  will  pay  off  in  enlivening  the  product.  Whatever 
you  do,  make  the  most  of  what  you  are  doing  by  running  it  large  enough 
to  be  discernible. 


This  is  material  that  is  black  or  white  with  no  middle  tones,  like  type  or 
pen-and-ink  drawings,  none  of  which  require  halftone  screens  to  reproduce 
them.  The  great  advantage  of  line  work  on  the  page  is  that  it  has  no  hard 
outline  like  photographs  do,  so  it  lets  in  a  little  contrasting  openness, 
informality,  and  air  to  the  page. 


Street  scene  in  Seville- drawn  in 
dry  brush  and  ink  technique  by 
Emil  Weiss. 


The  Statue  of  Liberty  through  nine 
different  screens:  left  to  right: 
horizontal  line,  coarse  mezzotint, 
steel  engraving,  linen,  fine  grai 
coarse  grain,  fine  mezzotint,  ci 
line,  steel  etching.  Courtesy  of 
Carl  Moreus. 


circle 


what  is  a  line  conversion? 


If  you  take  a  photograph  (which  has  continuous  tone  in  it)  and  reproduce  it 
as  though  it  were  line  art,  terrible  things  happen  to  the  picture:  Everything 
that  is  darker  gray  than  about  50%  (black  is  said  to  be  100%  and  white  is 
said  to  be  0%)  congeals  into  solid  black.  Everything  that  is  lighter  than  50% 
disappears,  drops  out,  turns  white.  Your  details  disappear.  All  sorts  of 
blotches  and  textures  appear,  and  the  results  can  be  tremendously  startling 
and  exciting. 

Clearly,  there  are  many  variations  on  this  technique,  here  described  in 
its  crudest,  most  elementary  process.  Discuss  your  idea  with  the  supplier,  be 
it  reproduction  house,  photo  lab,  or  printer,  and  ask  to  see  samples.  Then 
make  your  choice  based  on  a  show-and-tell  example  of  the  supplier's 
capabilities.  Don't  forget  the  capacity  of  your  office  copier  to  transform 
continuous  tone  into  unexpected  line  art,  especially  if  you  make  several 
generations  of  copies;  in  other  words,  if  you  copy  a  copy  of  a  copy — even 
unto  the  fourth  generation. 


Normal  halftone  (133  line  screen) 


line  conversion 


electrostatic  copier  conversion 


What  are  screens  and  shading  tints? 


They  are  patterns  of  dots  or  lines  that  can  be  added  to  line  art,  or  the  white 
paper  of  the  page,  to  give  it  the  appearance  of  gray  tinting.  The  degree  of 
darkness  is  defined  in  percentages,  100%  being  solid  black  and  0%  being 
pure  white.  As  in  halftone  screens,  there  is  the  equivalent  designation  of 
lines  per  inch,  the  coarser  screens  being  suitable  for  reproduction  on 
cheaper  stock.  The  decorative  quality  of  the  dot  structure  may  well  be 
useful,  however,  to  embellish  artwork  by  tonalities,  so  a  coarse  screen  need 


not  be  equated  with  a  "cheap"  result.  It  depends  on  i^^vv  ii  li  L.bcu.  ;  ..^ 
screens  can  be  added  in  two  ways: 

By  the  printer  or  compositor.  The  instructions  are  simple.  On  an  overlay  you 
draw  the  outline  of  the  shape  you  wish  to  have  appear  tinted,  using  either 
black  or  red  ink.  This  keyline  in  red  ink  will  be  understood  by  the  printer  as 
"not  to  be  printed."  If  you  use  black  ink,  you  had  better  mark  the  keyline 
clearly  as  "Guideline  only.  Do  not  print"  or  you  will  find  your  gray  area 
neatly  outlined  with  a  black  border.  In  either  case  you  must  specify  what 
kind  of  screen  is  to  be  stripped  into  the  area  thus  outlined  (for  example, 
"Strip  in  20%  screen,  110-line"). 

Many  people  still  call  these  things  Bendays  after  the  inventor  of  an 
equivalent  process  used  in  letterpress  printing,  now  nearly  obsolescent. 


By  the  do-it-yourself  editor  or  designer.  Far  greater  latitude  is  possible  here 
because  all  sorts  of  screen  patterns  are  available  at  art  supply  stores  as 
material  to  be  attached  to  artwork  or  a  paste-up.  The  material  comes  in 
adhesive  sheet  form,  which  needs  cutting  out  and  burnishing  down  onto  the 
artwork,  or  it  comes  in  rub-off  form,  which  is  transferred  to  the  artwork 
by  rubbing  with  a  tool. 


in  printing,  publishing,  and  editorial  terminology,*  anything  that  is 
not  typographic  is  dubbed  art,  be  it  photograph,  halftone,  line  art  in 
pen  and  ink,  technical  illustrations,  cartoons,  and  so  on.  Its  merits  as  "art" 
may  leave  much  to  be  desired,  but  "art"  it  remains.  Even  logos  (such  as 
department  headings)  that  repeat  from  issue  to  issue  or  page  to  page  are 
called  standing  art. 


*See  Patricia  Barnes  Mintz,  Dictionary  of  Graphic  Arts  Terms  (Ne\ 
Reinhold,  1981). 


York:  Van  Nostrand 


ustrations 
and  their 
substitutes: 


where  to 
find  them, 
how  to 
use  them 


One  of  those  conventional  wisdoms  tliat  are  accepted  without  question  is 
that  there  is  something  inherently  wrong  with  a  page  of  plain  type.  Such 
thinking  assumes  the  product  will  be  dull  and  remain  unread  if  it  isn't 
gussied  up  and  broken  up  with  pictures,  headlines,  interruptions  of  various 
kinds,  and  flamboyant  excesses  of  all  sorts. 

Well,  that  isn't  necessarily  so.  It  depends  on  the  subject  matter  and  the 
writing  of  the  text.  If  the  text  is  important  and  well  expressed,  flowing 
smoothly  with  points  following  in  logical  sequence,  then  visual  enrichments 
are  counterproductive  because  they  call  attention  to  themselves  at  the 
expense  of  the  story.  Furthermore,  it  is  likely  that  your  specialized,  in-house, 
intimate-circulation  publication  has  an  audience  to  whom  the  subject  matter 
doesn't  need  to  be  sold  with  exaggerated  effects.  They  already  care  and 
need  to  know;  they  are  already  interested,  and  therefore  they  don't  need  to 
be  "caught."  They  do  need  to  be  kept  interested  so  they'll  look  forward  to 
the  next  issue — but  that  is  slightly  different  from  beguiling  them  the  first 
time  around.  Here  the  crucial  factors  of  usefulness  and  accessibility  of  the 
information  come  into  play.  Once  you've  established  that,  you've  created 
loyal  readership. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  undoubtedly  true  that  the  greater  the  variety  of 
material  on  the  page,  the  more  hooks  there  are  to  pull  casual  or  uninterested 
readers  into  paying  attention.  Each  small  item  is  another  opportunity  to 
persuade  them  to  stop  skimming  and  start  reading.  Such  potential  readers 
peck  at  the  pages,  apparently  at  random,  looking  for  juicy  gobbets  here  and 
there.  Some  tabloid  presentations  are  specifically  tailored  to  such  an 
approach,  breaking  up  stories  into  tiny  subcomponents,  each  with  its 
separate  headline,  picture,  caption,  box,  sidebar,  arrows,  angled  overlaps, 
shadows,  and  every  possible  unexpected  combination  of  visual/verbal 
material  intended  to  amaze,  titillate,  and  intrigue — and  they  do  it  with 
enviable  success.  You  can  find  racks  full  near  any  supermarket  checkout 
counter. 

At  which  extreme  does  the  ideal  lie:  the  dignified  sophisticated 
publication  that  melds  subtle  visual  effects  with  restrained  typography,  or 
the  brash,  spotty,  but  indisputably  exciting  one  that  entertains  between  short 
attention  spans?  The  ideal,  alas,  doesn't  exist.  It  all  depends  on  the  subject, 
audience,  and  purpose  of  the  publication,  and  ultimately  on  the  hunch  of 
the  editor.  There  is  also  no  such  thing  as  "good"  or  "best,"  there  is  only 
effective.  Does  the  publication  succeed?  Does  it  come  off?  Even  that  is 


something  one  can  seldom  be  sure  about,  but  it  is  fun  to  l<eep  trying  to 
experiment  with  it  and,  maybe,  help  it  along. 

The  material  in  this  chapter  is  assembled  with  that  purpose  in  mind. 
It  lists  and  explains  the  basic  options  at  the  editor's  disposal.  The  question 
of  their  appropriateness  is  left  completely  unanswered  except  for  these 
three  comments: 

1 .  If  the  visual  ingredients  are  poor,  the  temptation  is  to  save  the 
situation  with  fancy  typography  and  so-called  design.  Resist  that  temptation. 
A  worthy  story  can  stand  on  its  own  and  cosmetics  will  only  cheapen  it. 

2.  Elegance,  dignitx',  and  perceived  value  grow  from  the  clever  editorial 
judgment  that  uses  the  right  embellishment  in  the  appropriate  place  and 
nowhere  else.  If  such  embellishment  grows  organically  out  of  the  stories' 
own  subject  matter,  the  likelihood  is  that  it  will  make  editorial  sense. 

3.  The  purpose  of  publications  is  to  disseminate  information,  and 
anything  interposed  between  the  message  and  the  reader  that  disturbs  the 
clarity  and  speed  of  communication  should  be  questioned,  no  matter  how 
amusing,  original,  or  clever  it  may  be.  Your  decision  may  well  be  to  keep  it 
in — fine! — but  you  must  know  what  you  are  doing  and,  more  importantly, 
why  you  are  doing  it.  Only  then  can  you  weigh  the  cost/benefit  ratio  and 
come  to  a  cogent  decision. 


Custom-made  art  vs.  existing  art 


Budget.  That's  the  operative  word.  If  only  you  had  the  money  and  could 
afford  to  have  photographs  taken  by  some  of  those  famous  photographers 
whose  evocative  work  gives  so  much  depth  and  meaning  to  material  in 
national  magazines,  or  those  artists  whose  skills  meld  thoughts  and  images 
into  an  irresistible  transmission  of  ideas,  or  those  imaginative  illustrators  who 
can  take  complex  technical  facts  and  transmogrify  them  into  accessible, 
expository  artwork,  or  those  sagacious  cartoonists  who  penetrate  to  the  heart 
of  the  matter  and  expose  its  essence  in  a  few  deft,  symbolic  strokes,  or 
those  skilled  typographic  designers  who  turn  a  row  of  dry  statistics  into 
compelling  charts,  graphs,  or  easy-to-use  tables — but  you  don't.  Very  few  of 
us  do.  Most  of  us  have  to  rely  on  existing  artwork,  easily  applied  graphic 
embellishments,  and  our  own  imagination.  That  is  why  there  is  just  this  short 
paragraph  on  the  subject  of  commissioned  artwork  in  this  book. 

If  you  have  the  good  fortune  of  using  such  custom-made  material,  be 
sure  that  you  use  it  with  flair  to  get  the  most  mileage  out  of  it.  Be  doubly 
sure,  however,  that  you  aren't  bamboozled  by  its  visual  excellence.  You,  as 
editor/designer,  are  the  final  arbiter  of  the  sense  and  the  content  of  the 
publication,  and  however  good  the  art  may  be,  if  it  is  off  the  point,  it  is  bad 
art.  You  must  either  change  the  art  and  force  it  to  conform  to  the  editorial 
point,  or  you  must  amend  the  editorial  point  to  have  it  correspond  to  the 
art.  Only  when  they  work  in  tandem  can  you  derive  the  best  possible 
communication  value  from  them. 


Sources  for  photography:  expensive,  cheap,  free 


Anything  you  could  possibly  want  a  picture  of  has  been  photographed 
somewhere,  sometime — but  where  is  it  to  be  found?  There  are  huge 
collections  of  stock  photographs  and  illustrations,  both  general  and 
specialized.  Many  of  them  are  listed  in  Magazine  Industry  Market  Place  under 
"Stock  Photo  Agencies."  Many  more,  including  international  and  government 
sources,  can  be  found  listed  in  the  new  World  Photography  Sources,  both 
distributed  by  R.  R.  Bowker  Company.  The  many  agencies  and  departments 
of  the  United  States  government  have  extensive  collections  of  material 
available  at  nominal  expense  (although  not  for  implied  endorsement  of 
product  or  service).  Check  Pictorial  Resources  in  the  Washington,  D.C.,  Area 
by  Shirley  R.  Green,  available  from  the  Library  of  Congress.  The  library's  own 
prints  and  photographs  division  has  an  enormous  collection. 

Individual  photographers  make  their  stock  available  as  well.  They  are 
listed  in  the  books  mentioned  above.  In  addition,  an  invaluable  clearinghouse 
of  information  is  Rohn  Engh's  computerized  listing  of  professionals  and 
semi-professionals  working  in  the  unlikeliest  of  places,  itself  in  Osceola, 
Wl  54020;  telephone  (715)  248-3800. 

Then  there  are  the  various  associations  whose  promotion  departments 
exist  to  provide  material.  And  don't  forget  the  public  relations  departments 
of  the  big  companies  and  the  public  information  offices  of  service 
establishments.  The  list  is  awesome. 

The  real  problem  in  finding  pictures  isn't  their  availability,  it  is  your 
time.  When  you  need  a  picture,  you  need  it  now.  No,  not  now,  yesterday. 
By  then,  it's  a  bit  late  to  do  the  research,  call  for  a  batch  of  pictures  on 
approval,  and  get  angry  at  the  mails  for  not  delivering  any  faster.  The  secret 
is  not  at  the  picture  end  of  things,  but  rather  at  the  editing  end:  do  not  wait 
until  the  copy  is  finished,  retyped,  edited,  and  okayed  by  the  CEO  before 
starting  on  the  chore  of  figuring  out  how  to  illustrate  it  all.  Think  pictures 
while  you  are  writing  the  first  draft,  do  your  research,  and  call  your  sources 
right  then  and  there. 


Old  engravings  in  the  public  domain 


Before  photography  and  halftone  reproduction  became  available,  all 

ustrations  had  to  be  engraved  by  hand:  cut  from  wood  or  scratched  or 
etched  from  metal.  The  pictures  were  made  to  appear  as  natural  as  possible 
through  shading  that  was  created  by  cross-hatching — yet  they  were  all 
linecuts,  in  spite  of  the  variety  of  techniques  used.  That  is  a  most  fortunate 
advantage  for  us  because  we  can  easily  reproduce  those  illustrations  as  line 
work,  and  we  can  even  reduce  or  enlarge  them  without  spoiling  them.  It  is 
unwise  to  attempt  that  with  pictures  that  are  halftones  because  the  dots 
either  become  too  tiny  and  disappear,  or  worse,  combine  into  large  blocks 
that  make  the  image  look  muddy.  Or,  if  you  enlarge  them,  the  dots  become 
gross  and  overscaled. 

To  reproduce  from  existing  material,  you  either  cut  up  the  original 


(which  is  a  bad  idea)  or  you  have  a  PMT  reproduction  made,  which  then 
becomes  "art." 

The  ease  of  reproduction  is  coupled  with  the  happy  fact  that  according 
to  the  prevailing  copyright  law,  generally  anything  older  than  75  years  is 
likely  to  be  in  the  public  domain  (it's  advisable,  however,  to  verify  before 
you  use  anything).*  If  it  is  reproduced  in  a  book,  such  as  a  museum  catalog, 
the  book  as  a  whole  is  copyrighted  so  you  can't  steal  anything  from  it.  It  is 
safer  to  depend  on  others  to  do  the  culling  of  materials  for  you  and  to 
borrow  these  publications  for  your  swipe  files.  The  Dover  Pictorial  Archives 
are  one  of  the  gold  mines  of  excellently  reproduced  collections  of  old  cuts  at 
ridiculously  low  prices  (you  can't  beat  $7.50  for  1,419  drawings  of  animals  of 
all  sorts,  for  instance).  There  are  others,  of  course.  Check  with  the  art  supply 
shop,  bookstore,  and  library. 

•Different  terms  of  copyright  duration  apply  for  works  created  after  1978.  There,  copyright 
endures  for  the  life  of  the  author  plus  50  years. 


Clip  art:  its  uses  and  dangers 


If  old-fashioned  woodcuts  and  steel  engravings  are  stylistically  inappropriate, 
an  equivalent  mass  of  more  contemporary  artwork  is  available  from  clip 
book  services.  There  are  many  that  offer  ready-made  illustrations  in  any  style 
imaginable,  organized  by  subject  and  category,  that  probably  include 
anything  you  can  possibly  need  or  think  of.  They  are  available  at  art  supply 
stores  as  well  as  by  mail.  Fresh  material  is  constantly  being  added,  and  they 
all  supply  you  with  catalogs  for  the  asking.  Three  leaders  in  this  field  are: 
Volk  Art,  Box  72L,  Pleasantville,  NJ  08232;  Dynamic  Graphics,  Box  1901, 
Peoria,  IL  61656;  Graphic  Products,  3601  Edison  Place,  Rolling  Meadows, 
IL  60008. 

One  potential  problem  is  the  likelihood  that  you  will  see  the  art  you  are 
using  being  used  somewhere  else  (and  if  you  are  the  sort  of  person  who 
would  be  embarrassed  rather  than  amused  by  seeing  someone  else  wear  the 
same  dress  as  you  have  on  at  a  party,  then  you  are  in  trouble).  What  to  do? 
Don't  run  the  art  exactly  the  way  you  cut  it  out  of  the  book,  but  disguise  it  in 
some  way.  Combine  parts  of  one  drawing  with  another.  That's  easy  to  do, 
and  all  you  need  are  scissors  and  some  glue.  Or  add  tints  or  background  to 
camouflage  the  original.  It  is  not  at  all  difficult,  and  it  is  fun  to  try. 

Transfer  art  and  the  easy  way  to  become  an  "illustrator" 

The  manufacturers  of  acetate  lettering  also  produce  a  vast  array  of  graphic 
symbols  of  all  sorts,  many  of  which  are  pictorial.  Especially  useful  for 
graph  symbols  and  pictograms,  they  can  also  be  combined  easily  into 
custom-tailored  solutions  for  your  particular  needs.  With  the  most  limited 
skill,  you  can  produce  remarkable  results,  if  the  ideas  underlying  the  graphics 
make  good  editorial  sense.  And  that's  the  key,  isn't  it?  Well,  interestingly 
enough,  ideas  often  grow  out  of  the  graphics  in  front  of  you,  even  if  you 
believe  yourself  to  be  thoroughly  unimaginative  in  this  area  and  find  it 
difficult  to  dream  up  graphic  ideas  from  scratch — and  who  doesn't?  You  can 
start  your  creative  juices  flowing  by  playing  around  with  such  readily 
available  materials,  and  who  knows  what  brilliance  may  be  lurking  just 
under  that  quiet  surface?  The  investment  is  modest  and  the  payoff  can  be 
impressive.  It  makes  sense  at  least  to  give  it  a  try. 

Handwritten  notes:  art  at  the  end  of  your  arm 

What  an  unexpected  effect  to  see  handwritten  annotations  in  the  margin — 
,  and  what  an  attention  getter!  Especially  if  they  are  run  in  blue  ink  and  in  a 

^I^^T^     I      handwriting  that  isn't  too  formal  in  character  so  that  it  appears  genuine. 

"  '  "^       The  whole  trick  is  to  make  the  reader  believe  that  they  are  privy  to  someone 
else's  private  commentaries. 

The  art  is  prepared  as  a  simple  overlay  after  the  type  has  been  put 
down  on  the  mechanical;  then  it  is  stripped  into  the  plate  or  left  alone  to 
run  in  a  second  color. 


H 


.r"' 


You  don't  have  to  restrict  this  trick  to  verbal  annotations.  Just  as  body 
language  is  a  tongue  distinct  from  regular  speech,  so  there  are  all  sorts  of 
scribbled  symbolisms  that  communicate:  underscores  or  overscores; 
emphasis  lines  alongside  the  text;  brackets;  arrows  leading  from  one  element 
to  another;  formulas  in  the  margins;  exclamation  points  or  question  marks; 
arrows  leading  into  the  text;  check  marks;  deletion  marks;  even  blots.  And 
a  deliberate  fingerprint  or  two  may  raise  some  eyebrows.  "^ 


Rubber  stamps  and  the  danger  of  being  funny 


Here  is  a  graphic  material  whose  texture  and  informality  give  it  a  special 
effect  of  immediacy.  You  can  have  anything  made  into  a  rubber  stamp,  be  it 
verbal  or  pictorial,  or  you  can  buy  ready-made  stamps  at  stationery  stores. 
You  can  also  find  pictorial  ones  in  those  gift  shops  that  smell  of  incense. 
Those  that  are  not  sickeningly  sentimental  are  meant  to  be  funny  or 
outrageous,  as  are  those  you  can  send  away  for  to  such  sources  as  the  Visual 
Lunacy  Society,  Box  308,  Great  Falls,  VA  22066. 


Specia! 
-  Money-Savlng 
*^.  Rates 


'>Aiv,^ 


•         That  brings  up  the  question  of  humor:  what  may  strike  you  as  funny, 
cute,  or  even  sparklingly  witty  may  not  strike  responsive  chords  in  the 
reader.  I  must  confess  to  having  had  my  own  brilliant  funnies  struck  down  by 
the  kind  of  reception  that  leaves  me  embittered  at  the  world's  obtuseness, 
let  alone  my  listeners'  stupidity!  The  context  in  which  the  wit  is  seen  may 
have  much  to  do  with  such  a  disaster.  A  professional  comedian  gets  away 
with  what  he  or  she  says  or  does  because  we  expect  it.  Someone  else's 
delivery  may  be  just  as  sharp,  yet  the  act  will  bomb  out.  It's  not  just  what  you 
say  or  how  you  say  it,  but  also  who  you  are  and  where  you  are  saying  it  that 
matters.  Furthermore,  in  contexts  where  humor  is  expected,  it  is  normally 
packaged  in  a  third-person  format  where  we,  the  onlookers,  are  outside  the 
scene.  When  the  humor  is  shifted  onto  the  person  in  a  story  about  the 
traveling  salesman  or  onto  the  characters  in  the  cartoon  drawing,  it  is  safe 
for  us  to  laugh,  because  it  is  happening  to  "them"  and  we  are  not  personally 
threatened  or  laid  bare  by  its  irony,  wit,  or  cynicism.  In  the  context  where 
humor  is  not  expected,  such  wit  is  often  a  subjective  insight  of  the  person 
who  inserts  it  that  reflects  his  or  her  own  views  and  experiences  and 
intimately  affects  the  views  of  readers — a  far  more  vulnerable  situation  for 
both  sides.  In  sum  then:  It  is  very  difficult  to  be  funny  and  have  it  come  off 
the  way  you  want  it  to,  so  proceed  with  caution.  If  you  do  intend  to  go 
through  with  it,  then  be  sure  to  set  the  situation  up  so  its  intended  humor 
cannot  be  misunderstood.  f^^B 


139 


Rules  and  how  to  use  them  to  advantage 


Any  typesetter  or  printer  using  any  kind  of  machinery  has  the  capacity  to 
provide  lines  as  part  of  the  typesetting  process.  Those  lines  can  be  vertical 
or  horizontal  (although  horizontally  set  rules  are  easier  to  accomplish  on 
most  equipment),  and  they  can  be  virtually  of  any  u'idth.  These  "weights" 
are  the  most  commonly  available. 


They  can  be  set  to  any  width  up  to  the  maximum  the  equipment  allows 
(usually  43  picas).  They  are  also  available  as  tapes  and  on  acetate  sheets, 
either  in  rub-off  or  cut-out-and-adhere  form.  They  can  be  known  as  border 
slides,  although  the  most  common  term  for  them  is  rules.  Plain  ones  are 
called  plain  rules,  reasonably  enough. 

Double-lined  ones  are  parallel  rules  = 

multiple  ones,  multiple  rules  \ 

gray  ones,  shaded  or  tone  rules 

dashed  ones,  coupon  rules 


fancy  ones,  fancy  rules   iy§LaMi}y5y{gy8LgMlgi5g^^ 
double  lines,  one  fatter  than  the  other,  oxford  rules  sa 


Dotted  rules  can  be  made  by  setting  periods  as  though  they  were  type,  in 
which  case  they  are  called  leader  rules 

Many  rules  come  with  ready-made  box-corners  rounded  or  embellished 
in  some  way  ^^^"""^^^^  ■  ^"""^ 


Tapered  rules  are  these  things 


Due  to  their  availability  and  cheapness,  rules  are  a  potential  aid  in  making  up 
pages  for  a  number  of  reasons. 

1.  Rules  are  marvelously  useful  in  organizing  the  geometry  of  your 
space  by  defining  areas  within  that  space.  They  define  the  edges  of  things, 
contain  things,  enclose  things. 

2.  Rules  separate  disparate  components  of  the  page  from  each  other, 
and  good  fences  make  good  neighbors. 

3.  Rules  can  give  emphasis  or  individuality  to  whatever  it  is  that  they 
isolate  from  its  surroundings. 

4.  Rules  have  the  invaluable  capacity  to  add  color  by  contrast. 
Imagine  a  page  of  gray  type  with  a  fat  black  rule  on  it,  or  a  delicate  hairline 
rule  next  to  bold  black  type.  The  combinations  are  limitless,  and  they  give 
life  and  sparkle. 


5.  Rules  can  be  used  to  underscore  or  overscore  individual  words  or 
phrases  to  give  them  emphasis. 

6.  Rules  are  decorative  elements  if  used  in  conjunction  with  white 
space.  Often,  a  hunk  of  empty  space  deliberately  edged  with  a  rule  can  be 
as  interesting  looking  a  counterpoint  to  the  text  as  a  picture,  which  might 
well  pull  the  reader's  attention  away  from  the  text. 

7.  Rules  can  be  used  as  a  patterning  element  for  the  page  or  series  of 
pages,  or  even  an  entire  issue,  which  in  turn  creates  a  subliminal  character 
for  the  product  that  stays  in  the  background,  yet  gives  the  whole  package  a 
flavor  of  its  own.  Think  how  ordinary  Time  magazine  would  appear  without 
its  geometrical  patterning  of  the  hairline  rules  on  the  pages,  or  The  New 
Yorker's  wiggly  lines  used  as  rules  alongside  the  text. 

The  use  of  rules — or  better  said,  the  overuse  of  rules —  can  be  blamed 
on  the  vagaries  of  fashion.  At  times  the  use  of  rules  is  anathema,  and  then 
tastes  swing  to  the  opposite  extreme  and  you  can't  see  the  type  for  the 
"furniture."  But  the  functional  capacity  of  rules  to  help  both  editor  and 
reader  is  unaffected  by  fashion.  That's  why  they  can  and  should  be  used 
when  they  can  be  helpful,  despite  current  trends  in  taste. 


Boxes:  what's  in  them  for  you? 


A  great  deal,  if  you  don't  limit  your  thinking  to  the  usual  scrawny  outline 
surrounding  the  block  of  text  in  the  unimaginative  way  that  they  are  usually 
handled.  Too  often,  the  people  who  are  antibox  on  principle  are  right: 
boxes  can,  indeed,  be  just  a  crutch.  Too  often  they  are  superficial, 
nonfunctional  cliches;  but  they  can  be  extremely  useful  if  you  understand 
why  they  are  being  used. 

1.  To  separate  one  part  of  a  story  from  the  rest,  to  quarantine  it  away. 

2.  To  make  a  part  of  the  story  less  important  by  playing  it  down  at  the 
foot  of  the  page,  setting  the  type  smaller,  and  deliberately  bypassing  it. 

3.  To  make  a  part  of  the  story  more  important  by  placing  it  near  the  top 
of  the  page,  setting  the  type  bigger,  using  active  or  exciting  language,  and 
adding  attention-getting  graphic  embellishment. 

4.  To  make  the  overall  page  look  less  gray  by  breaking  it  up  into 
smaller  units. 

5.  To  make  the  story  look  less  daunting  and  faster  to  read  by  breaking 
it  up  into  smaller-looking,  self-contained  components. 

6.  To  break  out  statistical  or  other  self-contained  sidebar  matter  that 
would  be  a  stumbling  block  in  the  smooth  reading  of  the  main  body  of 
the  story. 

7.  To  increase  the  readership  of  a  story  by  giving  the  editor  the 
opportunity  for  yet  another  headline  with  which  to  intrigue  readers  (often 


readers  read  the  short  sidebar  first,  because  it  is  short)  and  entice  them  into 
tackling  the  main  body  of  the  article. 

How  can  boxes  be  used  more  effectively?  It  is  worth  thinking  that 
question  through.  How  do  we  separate  things  from  each  other  in  the  real, 
nonprinted,  three-dimensional  world? 

1.  You  imprison  the  object  inside  a  fenced  area 

If  you  are  flying  in  an  airplane  looking  down,  what  does  that  fence  look 
like?  A  thin  line;  yet  we  know  the  line  must  have  height,  or  else  it  wouldn't 
keep  the  cow  penned  up.  In  print,  a  box  made  of  a  single  line  of  whatever 
thickness  is  the  equivalent  of  a  fence  or  wall  seen  from  the  air  ' 

Fence  seen  from  above -  —  o 


2.  You  make  the  object  hard  to  reach 


Putting  it  on  a  level  higher  or  lower  than  its  surroundings  separates  it, 
as  well  as  implies  a  change  of  emphasis.  An  illusion  of  a  change  can  be 
created  on  the  surface  of  the  page  by  creating  a  false  second  plane  with 
shadows.  Even  without  legs,  this  table  top  appears  to  be  "floating"  above 
the  floor  because  of  the  shadow  it  casts 


From  that  airplane  (with  good  binoculars)  it  would  look  like  this 


e^Kg  I 


3.  You  make  the  object  impossible  to  reach  by  hiding  it  in  a  container. 
Here  is  a  shoebox  in  real  life  > 


This  is  what  the  shoebox  looks  like  from  the  airplane 


This  is  a  shape  that  lends  itself  to  two  further  illusions:  by  leaving  out 
the  walls  that  define  the  "inside,"  you  create  the  illusion  of  a  low  pedestal 
on  which  an  object  has  been  placed 


^  Outside  walls  shown 


By  leaving  out  the  outside  walls  and  showing  only  the  inner  ones,  you 
seem  to  have  carved  a  niche  in  the  surrounding  surface  of  the  wall  (the 
page)  into  which  you  insert  the  object 


i 


•-^~-~~- 


gli)©© 


Inside  walls  shown 


4.  You  make  the  object  special  by  a  symbolic  setting.  A  jewel  seems  so 

much  more  valuable  when  laid  gently  in  the  middle  of  a  velvet  cushion  than 
if  tossed  on  the  kitchen  countertop 


Translate  that  velvet  cushion  into  flat  printed  terms,  and  what  do  you 
have?  A  tint  block  of  some  sort:  in  color,  in  a  screen  of  black  so  it  looks  like 
gray,  textured  or  smooth 


5.  You  make  it  extra  special  by  framing  it  and  hanging  it  on  the  wall  for 
everyone  to  admire. 

-r 


Each  of  these  yields  a  different  sort  of  box.  Next  time  you  are  faced  with 
breaking  out  some  material  and  putting  it  in  a  box,  remember  these 
differences,  for  they  may  well  be  a  clue  as  to  how  you  should  handle  it 
graphically.  Any  such  logical,  functional,  graphic  symbolism  will  not  only 
enhance  the  page  and  your  product  (by  making  it  more  interesting  to  look 
at),  but  it  will  improve  the  communication  value  of  that  product  by  utilizing 
symbolism  to  help  to  explain  the  thrust  of  the  material.* 

They  are  very  easy  to  make.  At  any  good  art  supply  store  you  can  buy  all 
sorts  of  ready-made  sheets  of  different  box  frames  printed  on  acetate.  All  you 
do  is  cut  them  out,  trim  them  to  size,  and  attach  them  to  your  layout.  Here's 
a  trick  to  help  make  the  corners  accurate:  use  graph  paper  printed  in  light 


nonreproducing  blue  ink  to  ensure  accuracy.  Overlap  the  acetate  rules  at  the 
corners  of  the  box.  With  a  razor  blade  or  sharp  X-Acto  knife  and  a  45° 
triangle,  cut  through  both  layers  simultaneously,  and  remove  the  excess. 
You'll  be  left  with  clean,  precisely  aligned  corners.  Take  great  care  in  your 
burnishing  not  to  displace  any  of  your  butting  joints.  Are  there  any  tips  to 
make  curved  corners  easier  to  accomplish?  I  wish  there  were! 

•For  much  more  on  boxes,  see  Graphic  Idea  Notebook,  by  Jan  V.  White,  p.  103  and  following. 


Here  is  a  group  of  boxes  just  to  start  your  imagination  working. 


Multiple  rules 


Double  (scotch)  rules  Fancycorners 


Identification  in  corner 


Turned  inward 


•!• 


Flatness  emphasized 


llusion  of  dimension 


Negative  space 


^^r^^gj 


Part  of     J    '\J~{  something  else 


Nonpictorial  odds  and  ends  as  illustrations 


Visual  accents  made  of  typographic  elements  add  sparkle  and  color  to  the 
page.  Large  initials,  available  on  acetate  sheets  of  type,  can  be  inserted  if  the 
text  has  been  set  to  allow  room  for  them.  Measure  the  letter's  width  on 
the  acetate  sheet  and  specify  the  intended  indention  so  that  you  can 
accommodate  it  on  the  mechanical.  Breakouts  or  callouts — those  provocative 
quotations  set  off  in  larger  type,  embellished  in  some  way,  and  dropped  into 


the  text — interrupt  the  makeup  of  the  page  and  act  as  verbal  illustrations. 
Anything  that  interrupts  a  pattern  attracts  attention  to  itself. 

■ 

Color  variation  in  type,  whether  you  actualK'  have  part  of  the  text 
printed  in  red  ink  and  the  rest  in  black,  or  whether  you  use  darker  type  for 
one  area  of  the  text  and  lighter  type  for  another,  can  give  life  to  a  presentation, 
especially  if  the  color  differentiation  reflects  differences  in  meaning,  such  as 
questions  and  answers.  The  difference  in  color  of  type  can  be  visualized  as 
the  different  voices  speaking  to  each  other. 

■ 

Headlines  and  subheads  can  be  placed  in  unexpected  relationships  to 
the  text  and  to  each  other  so  that  they  become  expressive  of  their  inner 
meaning  or  create  an  unusual  pattern.  Both  will  do  some  of  the  work  that  a 
traditional  pictorial  image  might  be  expected  to  do,  but  they  will  do  it  in  a 
more  roundabout  fashion. 

■ 

You  can  set  text  in  shapes  whose  outline  is  pictorial,  or  you  can  use  a 
typeface  whose  character  is  such  that  it  immediately  communicates  the 
mood  or  context  that  \  ou  wish  to  create. 

■ 

Specific  words  that  embody  a  thought  can  become  the  focal  element  on 
a  page  and  can  be  set  much  larger  than  their  surroundings  to  become  the 
functional  accent  you  need — at  little  cost  other  than  the  courage  to  do  it. 

■ 

You  can  make  your  own  artwork  by  using  symbolic  materials  evocative 
of  the  subject  matter  in  hand,  such  as  money:  make  rubbings  of  coins 
through  a  piece  of  tracing  paper,  or  use  photostatic  reproductions,  other 
than  life  size,  of  bits  of  printed  currency.  Small  objects  of  any  kind  that  you 
can  make  xerographic  prints  of — such  as  keys  and  pencils,  flowers,  you 
name  it — are  a-dime-apiece  images  that  are  easily  reproducible  in  the 
publication.  They  can  be  reduced  in  size,  of  course,  but  their  dramatic 
surprise  value  lies  in  their  full  size,  if  you  have  the  space  for  them. 

It  is  quite  impossible  to  list  all  the  means  at  the  artful  editor's  and 
designer's  disposal.  It  is  far  wiser  for  you  to  establish  a  good  ideas  swipe  file 
in  which  to  secrete  tear  sheets  of  astute  devices  that  you  come  across.  That  file 
is  an  essential  catalog  for  finding  details,  because  we  tend  to  remember  ideas 
in  a  vague  sort  of  way,  yet  when  we  actually  need  them,  we  can't  quite 
remember  what  it  was  that  made  that  idea  so  marvelously  effective.  If  you 
know  where  to  find  them,  you  can  overcome  such  infuriating  frustrations. 

Besides,  the  very  act  of  establishing  such  a  file  and  adding  to  it  as  you 
come  across  material  worthy  of  remembering  is  a  self-education  process  by 
which  your  awareness  of  visual/verbal  technique  grows  and  improves — 
so  much  so  that  your  own  creativity  and  confidence  encourage  you  to 
begin  inventing  your  own  solutions  without  needing  to  depend  on  those 
seen  elsewhere.  At  that  point,  you'll  only  need  that  file  when  your  own 
muse  is  away  on  vacation.* 

*For  much  more  on  this  sub)ect,  see  Editing  by  Design,  by  Jan  V.  White  (New  York: 
R.  R.  Bowker,  1982i,  p.  167  and  following. 


Making 
mechanicals: 


a  crash 


for  the 
uninitiated 


disinclined 


There  are  two  basic  approaches  to  preparing  editorial  material  for  printing. 
Which  of  them  is  to  be  followed  depends  on  the  size  and  complexity  of 
your  publication,  the  sophistication  of  the  available  equipment,  and  the 
/^/^l  j  I  ^r^  printing  processes  to  be  used. 

If  yours  is  a  complicated  product  printed  in  color  in  large  quantities, 
a  sequence  of  steps  is  followed  that  will  allow  you  to  respond  to  the  need 
for  speed,  efficiency,  and  cost,  using  the  capability  of  the  technology  at  hand. 
The  assembly  of  the  various  elements  that  go  into  making  up  pages  is  part 
of  the  printer's  service  (in  the  stripping  department).  Nowadays,  there  is  a 
tremendous  variety  of  ways  to  supply  that  material  to  the  printer:  All  sorts 
^  r^  /i  °^  marvelous  new  devices  are  being  invented,  debugged,  and  coming 

CXI    l\^  on-line,  up  to  and  including  computer-assisted  full-page  makeup  with 

full-color  capabilities,  concentrated  in  individual  terminals  at  each  editor's 
desk.  Such  marvels  of  the  electronic  era  are  already  with  us  and  will, 
inevitably,  grow  in  use.  They  will  displace  our  current  working  arrangement, 
replacing  it  with  better,  faster,  more  productive  techniques.  But  for  now,  if 
you  are  involved  in  this  large-scale  end  of  publication-making,  the  way  you 
are  likely  to  communicate  with  the  printer  or  page  maker  is  by  means 
of  dummies. 

Dummies  can  vary  in  appearance  and  finish  from  detailed  paste-ups 
showing  every  line  of  type  in  place  and  all  the  pictures  as  correctly  sized 
and  cropped  photostatic  reproductions  pasted  in  position,  all  the  way  to 
keyline  diagrams  that  merely  indicate  rectangular  outlines  of  each  element, 
coded  to  the  material  to  be  inserted.  The  choice  depends  on  the 
preference  of  both  editors  and  printers,  as  well  as  on  what  the  contract  calls 
for.  There  are,  however,  two  characteristics  that  all  dummies  must  have 
in  common. 

The  first  is  accuracy:  The  stripping  department  ought  not  to  have  to 
make  up  your  mind  for  you,  nor  ought  it  to  be  put  in  the  position  of  having 
to  interpret  poorly  worded  instructions.  Chances  are  that  such  interpretations 
will  be  wrong,  and  fixing  them  later  will  cost  time  and  money. 

The  second  is  all-inclusiveness:  There  is  no  excuse  for  not  supplying  the 
printer  with  everything  needed  to  make  up  a  page  in  its  entirety.  Forgetting 
is  amateurish,  and  submitting  pages  with  holes  in  them  marked  "TK"*  may 
make  you  feel  delightfully  "hold-the-presses"  journalistic,  but  is  probably 
self-indulgent. 

*TK  is  short  for  TO  KUM,  deliberately  misspelled  so  that  printer  knows  not  to  print  those 
words  by  mistake,  and  indicates  that  fresh  material  is  to  come  at  a  later  date. 


If  yours  is  a  more  modest  product,  basically  one  color,  with  comfortable 
lead  time  for  production  and  a  reasonable  number  of  pages,  then  a  far 
simpler  procedure  is  followed.  That  procedure  is  the  subject  of  this  chapter. 

Taking  the  fear  out  of  mechanicals  and  where  to  get  advice 

Mechanicals  are  assemblies  of  the  type  and  ail  the  other  visual  elements  to 
appear  on  the  page,  and  they  are  presented  to  the  printer  to  work  from. 
They  consist  of  spreads — facing  pages — assembled  to  look  precisely  as  you 
intend  them  to  appear  in  the  printed  piece.  You  glue  all  the  line  work 
such  as  type,  page  numbers,  ruled  lines,  line  drawings,  charts,  tabular  matter, 
and  so  on,  onto  sheets  of  stiff  paper.  (Yes,  you  must  have  a  good  idea  of  the 
layout  before  you  start  the  gluing  process!)  Wherever  pictures  occur,  you 
either  glue  in  a  Velox  (see  page  1 30)  or,  if  the  printer  will  be  making  the 
halftones  for  you,  indicate  where  they  are  to  go  and  how  big  they  should  be. 
The  platemaker  will  photograph  your  mechanical  as  line  art,  and  your 
pictures  as  halftones,  and  will  then  strip  them  together  as  negatives.  The 
printing  plates  will  then  be  made  from  those  negatives. 

When  the  mechanical  is  perfect  and  all-inclusive,  it  is  said  to  be 
camera-ready.  Mechanicals  or  boards  are  also  sometimes  called  keylines — 
from  the  term  used  to  describe  the  outlines  of  halftones  to  be  stripped  in. 

Mechanicals  also  contain  written  instructions  to  the  printer  in  the 
margin  or  on  an  overlay,  and  should  be  complete  and  perfect  in  every  detail 
so  that  all  the  printer  need  do  is  what  he  is  supposed  to  do:  the  printing. 

Your  most  important  source  of  information,  advice,  and  help,  as  well  as 
your  ally,  is  the  printer.  A  relationship  of  cooperation  and  trust  is  essential 
for  comfortable  production  as  well  as  finding  the  most  cost-effective 
solutions  to  your  particular  set  of  problems.  So  it  is  wise  to  bring  the  printer 
in  at  the  earliest  possible  stage,  for  he  will  be  able  to  answer  important 
questions  that  will  affect  your  own  working  techniques.  Basic  things  need  to 
be  asked:  How  does  the  printer  prefer  camera-ready  copy  to  be  presented? 
Should  halftones  be  keyed  to  areas  defined  by  outlines  on  the  layout,  or 
should  you  paste  in  black  areas  into  which  the  halftones  will  be  stripped? 
How  does  he  prefer  to  schedule  the  work  flow,  on  an  as  ready  or  when  can 
basis  (piecemeal  as  you  can  get  it  to  him)  or  as  a  complete  job?  How  should 
mechanicals  and  artwork  be  marked  for  efficient  and  convenient  handling? 
When  does  he  prefer  to  have  the  material  delivered  and  what  are  the 
optimal  schedules  (and  how  much  flexibility  is  built  into  them)  to  make  the 
job  as  economical  as  possible?  There's  a  lot  more  like  that  to  determine. 
But  you  only  know  what  to  discuss  with  him  after  you  have  rooted  through 
this  chapter's  worth  of  technicalities.  So  suspend  the  detailed  worries  about 
the  printer  for  the  time  being,  remembering  only  the  principle  that  the 
printer  is  your  friend,  someone  you  will  want  to  involve  in  the  final  decisions. 

The  tools  and  materials  you  cannot  work  without 

If  you  must  do  it  yourself,  you  must  prepare  yourself  for  the  physical  aspects 
of  the  work:  the  mental  (planning,  coordinating,  scheduling,  designing)  part 
of  the  job  is  complicated  enough  without  your  having  to  struggle  with  the 


mechanics  as  well.  So  invest  the  necessary  treasure  in  the  tools  you  will 
need.  They  will  help.  No,  that  is  an  understatement:  They  won't  just  help — 
without  them,  you  cannot  do  the  work. 

First  and  foremost,  you  must  have  quiet  space  to  work  in,  and  an 
uncluttered  surface  to  work  on.  Assembling  bits  of  paper  from  all  over, 
keeping  it  all  organized  and  clear,  being  able  to  see  what  you  are  doing  (not 
just  the  page  you  are  working  on,  but  the  other  pages  of  the  same  issue),  and 
keeping  track  of  the  glue  and  the  pencils  and  the  triangles  can't  be  done  on 
top  of  a  mound  of  accumulated  stuff.  It  needs  SPACE.  Clear,  uncluttered, 
broad,  empty  space.  Ideally,  you  should  have  a  full-sized  table,  at  least 
2'6"  X  6',  with  a  tackboard  on  the  wall  behind  it  to  the  same  width,  and 
ample,  comfortable  light.  Whether  that  table  is  of  sitting  or  stand-up  height 
is  a  matter  of  personal  preference.  Standing  allows  you  to  walk  around  more 
easily,  fostering  a  broader,  looser  field  of  action  that,  in  turn,  encourages 
freer  layout.  Sitting  in  one  position  tends  to  concentrate  your  vision  on  the 
details  at  the  expense  of  the  broader  picture.  An  easel-type  desk,  specifically 
made  for  artists  to  sit  at,  is  not  ideal  because  you  need  to  accommodate 
■  three  separate  functions  with  your  table  top:  storage  as  well  as  drawing  and 
pasting.  An  angled  top  allows  only  two,  the  drawing  and  pasting.  Anything 
that  isn't  tacked  down  slides  off,  which  is  irritating.  The  ideal  arrangement  is 
to  have  a  drafting  board  placed  at  an  angle  atop  a  flat  desk.  You  need  a 
separate  side  table  on  which  to  do  the  gluing  and  keep  your  coffee  cup  and 
ashtray.  (If  anything  can  spill  on  the  mechanicals,  it  will.)  And  lastly,  you 
must  have  easy  access  to  a  sink  to  wash  your  hands  in.  Nothing — nothing — 
is  as  important  as  cleanliness  in  making  mechanicals.  Every  little  spot, 
smudge,  particle  of  soot,  broken  pencil  tip,  and  foul  fingerprint  will  pick  up 
in  the  reproduction  process.  You  strive  for  perfection — and  dirt  is  even  more 
shameful  on  mechanicals  than  it  is  in  the  laundry,  in  spite  of  what  detergent 
commercials  may  want  you  to  believe! 


A  list  of  essential  tools 


n  Drawing  board,  big  enough  but  not  bigger  than  necessary  to  accommodate 
your  paper  size. 

n  T-square;  the  most  essential  tool  to  ensure  that  your  product  will  be 
square  and  true.  You  can  buy  it  separately  or  as  a  sliding  bar  attached  to  the 
drawing  board.  It  is  easier  to  use  if  it  is  attached,  and  just  by  being  there  it 
reminds  you  of  the  need  to  use  it. 

n  30°/60°  triangle  with  the  vertical  side  tall  enough  to  span  the  height  of 
your  page. 

n  Steel  ruler  24"  long,  marked  in  inches  and  picas. 

□  Scissors  with  blades  at  least  8"  long,  called  editor's  shears. 

n  X-acto  knife  with  lots  of  #11  blades.  Always  use  sharp  blades,  replacing 
ones  that  are  blunt  or  whose  tips  have  broken  off.  If  you  prefer,  you  can  use 
single-edged  razor  blades. 

n  Cutting  base.  This  is  a  sheet  of  gray  or  green  plastic  about  Vs"  thick  with 
grid  lines  imprinted  on  it.  Made  of  a  new  material  that  makes  cutting  small 
pieces  of  paper  a  joy,  it  also  protects  your  desk  top. 


□  Mechanical  pens  (tubular  points)  of  two  or  three  widths,  with  the 
appropriate  India  ink  dispenser  to  fill  them  with. 

n   Hard  pencil  (2H  or  harder),  or  a  lead  holder  into  which  leads  are  inserted. 

□  Nonrepro-blue  pencil  or  fine  ball-point  pen. 

n  Rubber  cement  for  gluing,  a  dispenser  with  a  brush  for  applying  it,  a  can 
of  thinner  or  solvent  to  thin  it  with,  and  a  pick-up  to  remove  it  with.  But  you 
might  prefer  a  larger  initial  investment  that  will  make  for  cheaper,  easier, 
and  more  flexible  use  later:  a  waxer.  Large  table-top  waxers  are  available,  but 
you  need  only  invest  in  a  hand-held  model.  It  has  a  heating  element  that 
melts  specially  formulated  paraffin  wax  and  allows  it  to  be  rolled  smoothly 
and  evenly  onto  the  paper.  The  advantage  of  the  wax  is  that  it  is  cleaner  and 
easier  to  work  with  in  that  it  allows  for  moving  the  pieces  of  paper  around 
until  you  are  finally  satisfied  with  their  placement  and  burnish  them 
down  permanently. 

n  A  type  gauge  divided  into  a  series  of  point  size  measurements — 
commonly  showing  6-point,  7-point,  8-point,  9-point,  10-point,  11-point, 
and  12-point  measurements. 

□  Burnisher  for  burnishing  down  waxed  type,  rub-off  lettering,  etc. 

□  Enlarging  wheel  or  other  device  for  scaling  pictures. 


A  list  of  essential  materials 


n  Paper  on  which  to  make  mechanicals.  Any  smooth  white  stock  is 
acceptable,  although  it  is  wise  to  use  a  fairly  heavy  stock  for  ease  of 
handling.  If  the  final  mechanical  will  require  lines  to  be  drawn  on  it,  then 
the  surface  must  be  hard  and  smooth  to  allow  that  to  be  done  without 
danger  of  lines  spreading  or  picking  up  surface  fuzz.  Lightweight  illustration 
board  with  a  smooth  or  hot-pressed  surface  is  specifically  made  for 
this  purpose. 

If  your  publication  will  have  the  same  column  format  from  issue  to 
issue,  have  the  printer  run  off  a  stack  of  dummy  sheets  showing  the  outlines 
of  columns  and  the  trim  edges  of  the  pages  in  nonreproducing  blue  ink. 
That  will  facilitate  your  work  by  giving  you  accurate  positioning  guidelines 
for  type  and  photos  without  your  having  to  measure  and  draw  the  lines 
every  time.  Nonrepro  blue  is  a  color  that  is  not  picked  up  in  the  photographic 
process  when  the  mechanicals  are  turned  into  film. 

An  alternate  technique  at  your  disposal  is  based  on  using  a  light  table. 
The  paper  you  paste  down  on  must  be  translucent;  then  you  take  a  sheet  of 
acetate  on  which  your  grid  has  been  drawn  and  place  the  paper  over  it. 
The  light  from  the  light  table  shines  through  from  below  and  gives  you  the 
requisite  guidelines.  Obviously,  you  don't  use  the  drawing  board  in  this 
case,  but  you  have  to  solve  the  problem  of  accurate  squaring  up  without  a 
T-square  by  using  the  acetate  grid. 

n   Blocking  film,  an  adhesive  plastic  material  that  comes  in  rolls  or  sheets. 
It  is  transparent  so  you  can  work  with  it  accurately,  but  it  is  dark  red,  so  it 
photographs  black.  You  cut  out  pieces  of  it  to  indicate  the  size  and  position 
of  the  halftones  that  the  stripper  or  makeup  man  will  strip  in  at  the  printer's. 


149 


^ 


n  Acetate  and/or  heavy  tracing  paper.  You  will  need  this  for  making  overlays. 

n  Cut-and-peel  film,  a  material  that  comes  in  rolls  or  sheets  for  making 
overlays  (see  page  157)  to  indicate  silhouetting  of  photos,  dropping  out, 
and  so  on. 

n  Tapes  of  various  kinds:  drafting  tape  for  attaching  paper  to  the  drawing 
board;  white  paper  tape  for  attaching  paper  to  paper;  and  matte  transparent 
tape. 

D    Register  marks  or  targets.  These  are  placed  on  the  original  paste-up  and 
all  overlays  to  ensure  the  printer  strips  the  elements  together  in  correct 
position.  Some  film-based  mechanical-making  systems  substitute  pin  holes 
for  keying  elements  together,  but  normal  paper  mechanicals  use  the 
tried  and  true  stick-on  targets  or  rub-off  X-marks. 


The  need  to  keep  clean 


Cleanliness  has  already  been  mentioned  as  far  as  your  hands  are  concerned. 
It  cannot  be  stressed  too  strongly  that  your  tools  must  also  be  kept 
immaculate.  The  glue  you  use  cannot  help  but  transfer  onto  the  triangle  and 
T-square,  so  wash  them  regularly.  Be  very  careful  with  ink  lines,  especially 
when  they  are  made  with  a  soft-tip  pen.  That  ink  leaves  residue  on  the  edge 
of  the  triangle  and  will  smudge  on  your  paper.  The  second  major  source  of 
dirt  disasters  is  the  type  itself.  If  your  type  has  been  set  by  photocomposition 
and  your  proofs  are  photographic  printouts,  then  you  have  no  problem. 
But  with  all  other  systems,  watch  out:  Type  proofed  on  a  proofing  press  will 
have  ink  that  must  dry  thoroughly  before  it  is  safe  to  touch  (which  sounds 
simple,  but  who  ever  has  time  for  anything  in  real  life?).  Strike-on  or 
cold-type  proofs,  including  those  made  by  typewriters  using  carbon  ribbon, 
are  nearly  as  dangerous  to  touch.  You  must  either  handle  them  with  great 
care  or  protect  them  from  smudging  by  spraying  them  with  a  light  coat  of 
clear  acrylic  (matte  finish)  spray.  When  it  has  hardened,  you  can  relax  a  bit. 


Working  in  miniature 


lUblU 


1 


'W 


nmnlnmnfnllnfnninlninnr 


nmmmm 
mmmm 
mmmm 
mmmn 


Before  cutting  galleys  and  starting  the  rough  dummy,  sketch  out  on  paper 
what  you  intend  to  do.  You  probably  have  a  pretty  good  idea  of  which  story 
should  go  where  as  far  as  the  pages  are  concerned  (important  ones  on  top, 
fillers  down  below;  pictorial  ones  sandwiched  between  textual  ones,  etc.). 
You  also  probably  use  a  planning  sheet  to  sketch  out  each  issue  anyway  if 
your  product  has  more  than  eight  pages.* 

Now  comes  the  time  to  crystallize  those  scribbles  and  vague  ideas  into 
some  more  precise  form.  For  that  purpose,  you  should  have  your  dummy 
sheet  reduced  to  miniature  size  and  run  off  in  a  stack  of  several  hundred 
copies,  so  you  can  waste  them  if  necessary;  a  good  workable  size  is  eight 
pages  (four  spreads)  on  an  8y2"  x  11"  piece  of  paper  turned  sideways. 


*A  planning  sheet  is  an  SVa"  x  11"  piece  of  paper  witli  rectangles  representing  each  of  the 
32  pages  that  are  to  be  printed.  Each  rectangle  is  just  large  enough  for  you  to  be  able  to 
scribble  the  name  of  the  story  in  it. 


That  is  small  enough  to  prevent  you  from  getting  lost  in  detail,  yet  large 
enough  to  force  you  to  think  in  realistic  proportions. 

When  you  have  sketched  out  your  space  allocations  in  miniature,  you 
can  then  start  to  take  the  next  step. 


Making  a  rough  dummy 


Before  you  do  a  final  mechanical,  it  is  advisable  to  do  a  rough  to  make  sure 
that  everything  will  fit  the  u'ay  you  intend  it  to.  The  camera-ready  material 
you  will  be  using  to  make  your  final  mechanicals  ought  not  to  be  handled 
too  often  in  order  to  keep  it  in  pristine  condition.  So  you  experiment  with 
photocopies.  At  this  stage,  you  must  determine  several  elements. 

Proper  spacing.  The  paste-up  stage  is  not  the  time  to  be  deciding  what 
looks  best.  You  should  know  beforehand  what  your  standard  spacing 
between  the  elements  is  supposed  to  be.  The  dummy  allows  you  to  check 
whether  it  is  going  to  work  according  to  Hoyle. 

Position  of  rules.  Ink  lines  should  be  drawn  first,  before  anything  else  is 
glued  onto  the  page,  because  ink  doesn't  take  on  the  slick  surface  over 
rubber  cement  or  wax.  Unless  great  care  is  taken  in  the  gluing  and  all  excess 
is  carefully  removed,  you  should  put  down  your  ink  rules  on  a  perfectly 
clear,  clean  surface.  The  rough  dummy  allows  you  to  plan  the  placement  of 
all  the  major  elements  on  the  page,  including  rules,  so  you  can  then  copy 
them  onto  the  mechanical. 

Handling  pictures  and  captions.  Make  up  your  mind  about  how  big  they 


will  be,  where  they  will  be  placed,  how  much  space  there  is  to  be  left 
between  them  and  their  surroundings,  and  so  on. 

Handling  the  space  in  the  display  areas.  The  space  within  which  the 
headline  is  placed  should  be  standardized.  There  is  a  comfortable,  optimal 
proportion  that  should  be  worked  out  and,  once  determined,  carefully 
repeated.  Unfortunately,  this  doesn't  always  happen  because  we  all  tend  to 
take  the  easy  way  out:  We  place  the  text  on  the  page  and  allow  the  space 
around  the  headline  to  take  up  the  slack — be  it  a  bit  too  tight,  or  much  too 
loose.  That  is  letting  the  tail  wag  the  dog:  The  catchy  headline  in  the  display 
area  (those  words  you  spent  so  much  effort  in  writing)  is  what  ought  to  take 
pride  of  place.  The  text  is  what  you  should  doctor  to  fit  by  cutting  or  adding 
a  few  lines.  Compromising  on  proper  spacing  around  the  headline  destroys 
the  overall  look  of  the  product — and  the  rough  dummy  allows  you  to  find 
out  what  needs  to  be  done  before  you  start  the  final. 


Practical  tips  on  making  mechanicals 


It  isn't  all  that  difficult.  You  have  to  work  cleanly,  cut  accurately,  draw 
carefully,  measure  precisely,  place  elements  on  the  page  consistently — but 
you  know  all  that  already.  What  you  may  not  recognize,  though,  is  the  need 
to  give  yourself  enough  time  to  do  it  properly. 

This  is  absolutely  crucial  to  your  success.  You  cannot  hurry  a  hand-crafted 
process  and  cut  corners  and  squeeze  it  in  as  a  last-minute  rush  and  hope  to 

151 


have  it  come  out  perfect,  the  way  you  want  it  to  be.  Especially  if  you  are  not 
yet  skilled  at  doing  it!  Unfortunately,  since  the  mechanical  is  the  last  major 
stage  in  the  production  of  the  printed  piece  before  printing,  its  schedule  gets 
squeezed  between  the  immovable  publication  date  and  the  inevitable  delays 
in  work  that  have  preceded  the  final  assembly.  So  you  rush  it  through,  work 
until  midnight,  exhausted,  when  your  minor  motor  skills  suffer.  You  accept 
the  compromises  ("nobody  will  notice"),  spill  coffee  in  your  nervous  haste — 
no  wonder  you  dread  the  mechanical  stage.  Self-discipline,  adhering  to 
the  schedule  before  you  get  to  this  segment  of  the  job,  is  the  secret  to 
bringing  the  monster  under  control. 

In  the  list  of  tips  that  follows,  the  assumption  has  been  made  that  the 
mechanicals  you  are  preparing  are  for  use  in  offset  lithography,  which  is  the 
most  commonly  used  method  of  printing  short-run  publications.  Clearly, 
preparation  of  material  for  in-house  reproduction  processes  must  be  done 
according  to  the  requirements  of  the  reproduction  machinery  available  there. 


□  To  save  wax,  chop  off  excess  paper  around  your  proof.  Trim  it  to  within 
Xb"  of  the  type  itself.  Whenever  you  wax,  place  your  proof  on  a  clean,  fresh 
sheet  of  scrap  paper  before  applying  the  wax  to  prevent  it  from  getting  onto 
the  face  of  your  proof  or  picture.  You  can  use  rubber-cement  thinner  as  a 
solvent  to  remove  such  wax  spots. 

□  If  you  must  remove  pieces  of  paper  that  have  been  glued  on  with  wax, 
warm  them  first  with  the  heat  of  your  hands.  Incidentally,  it  isn't  the 
pressure  of  the  burnishing  that  makes  the  wax  adhere  when  you  glue  paper 
down,  but  the  heat  generated  by  the  friction  of  rubbing  that  does  the  trick. 

n  Small  pieces  of  paper  tend  to  fall  off,  whether  you  attach  them  with 
rubber  cement  or  wax.  Anchor  them  down  with  matte  transparent  tape. 

□  Extend  ruled  lines  beyond  where  they  should  end.  When  you  draw  a  line 
in  ink,  its  beginning  and  end  fatten  up  because  you  are  moving  the  pen 
across  the  surface  of  the  paper  more  slowly.  The  more  accurate  you  try  to 
be,  the  slower  your  approach  toward  the  end  of  the  line — and  the  blobbier 
the  result.  That  is  why  corners  of  a  box  are  usually  such  a  disaster.  Instead, 
make  your  lines  longer  on  purpose,  then  get  rid  of  the  excess  length  by 
scraping  it  off  with  a  razor  blade  or  covering  it  up  with  white  tape.  The 
camera  won't  tell. 

□  Place  register  marks  inside  the  page  trim  so  they  don't  get  lost  in  stripping. 

□  The  windows  made  of  red  blocking  film  or  plain  black  paper  become 
clear  (transparent)  areas  on  the  film  when  the  platemaker  photographs  them 
as  a  negative.  The  halftone  is  then  stripped  into  the  space.  That  is  why  the 
outline  must  be  absolutely  accurate,  aligning  carefully  with  the  columns  of 
type.  Some  platemakers  prefer  to  have  the  rectangle  indicated  by  an  outline 
(keyline)  along  which  they  then  cut  to  make  a  hole  in  the  film. 

n  Each  photo  should  be  coded  by  page  number  and  by  position  on  that 
page.  That  is  why  each  space  for  a  picture  should  have  a  written  note 
alongside  it  that  says,  "Strip  in  Halftone  Copy  A,"  or  "Strip  in  Halftone  Copy 
B,"  etc.  Obviously,  the  original  pictures  should  be  coordinated  with  the  same 


coding  system  and  bear  a  notation  (such  as  "Page  3,  Copy  A,"  or  "Page  3, 
Copy  B")  on  the  tab  that  shows  the  focus. 

n  Check  periodically  the  tightness  of  your  T-square  screws  or  the  roller 
nnechanism  of  the  vertically  sliding  bar  on  your  drawing  board.  They  can 
loosen  up  and  throw  all  your  accurate  construction  askew. 

□  Copy  the  lines  printed  on  your  dummy  sheet  (delineating  columns,  page 
trim,  position  of  page  number,  etc.)  onto  a  sheet  of  clear  acetate.  You'll  have 
to  use  specially  prepared  wet  media  acetate  that  will  accept  India  ink 

lines.  You  can  use  it  as  an  overlay  on  the  mechanical  to  check  your  horizontal 
and  vertical  alignment  for  accuracy. 

□  The  mechanical  is  for  all  intents  and  purposes  the  final  copy.  You  may  get 
a  proof  of  some  sort,  but  that  ought  not  to  be  considered  an  opportunity 
for  making  changes.  So  read,  proofread,  double-check  the  mechanical  and 
avoid  making  changes  in  page,  i.e.,  after  page  proofs  have  arrived  from 

the  printer. 

n  Protect  every  mechanical  against  damage  and  dirt  by  putting  on  a  flap. 
This  is  simply  an  overlay  of  translucent  tracing  paper  on  which  you  can  write 
instructions  to  the  printer.  Its  very  existence  helps  to  protect  the  mechanical 
from  damage,  dirt,  stain,  and  rubbing  off  of  small  bits  of  paper  stuck  on  it, 
and,  worst  of  all,  fingerprints.  A  hidden  advantage  of  the  flap:  It  is  the  only 
place  the  boss  ought  to  be  allowed  to  make  notes.  Incidentally,  you  should 
never  write  on  the  flap  with  a  ball-point  pen.  it  makes  indentations  in  the 
soft  surface  of  the  mechanical  beneath  that  can  show  up  as  shadows.  Instead, 
use  a  soft  pencil.  Mechanicals  produced  by  professional  mechanical  artists 
are  always  double-flapped:  once  with  a  transparent  sheet,  as  described,  and 
then  with  a  second  layer  of  brown  kraft  or  equivalent  strong  stock  that  acts 
as  a  protective  cover. 

□  Identify  each  mechanical  by  name,  issue,  page  number,  and  date,  and 
include  boxes  for  the  appropriate  initials.  The  best  place  for  such  information 
is  the  lower  right-hand  corner.  You  can  then  code  your  halftones  with  the 
same  numbering  system  and  label  each  picture  with  an  "A,"  "B,"  "C,"  etc., 
to  identify  its  position  on  the  page. 


How  to 
use 
color 
effectively 

(and  stay  within  budget) 


Color  can  add  richness,  beauty,  excitement,  decorativeness,  and  personality 
to  the  product.  It  can  add  clarity  to  charts  and  diagrams.  It  can  add 
believability  to  the  images  of  objects  (because  the  real  world  is  in  color 
rather  than  a  black-and-white  abstraction).  But  it  costs  more  to  produce  a 
publication  with  color  because  of  the  technology,  the  extra  steps,  the 
original  materials,  and  the  printing  techniques  involved.  Therefore,  it  must  be 
used  with  great  care  in  order  to  get  the  biggest  effect  from  the  investment. 

Color,  however,  must  never  be  seen  as  a  trick  to  make  a  bad  product 
better.  All  color  can  do  is  to  make  that  bad  product  more  colorful.  It  is, 
therefore,  essential  to  avoid  using  it  just  in  order  to  make  the  product  look 
richer,  or  because  there  is  money  in  the  budget  for  it,  or  because  the 
competition  is  doing  it.  Instead,  it  has  to  be  used  right. 

The  definition  of  tightness  in  this  context  is  extraordinarily  simple: 
color  is  used  right  if  it  helps  to  get  the  message  across  to  the  reader,  if  it 
clarifies  the  story,  if  it  improves  communication  value,  and,  yes,  if  it  enriches 
the  product  as  an  object  (so  long  as  that  enrichment  doesn't  get  in  the  way 
of  the  product's  main  purpose,  which  is  journalism). 

You  can  narrow  down  segments  of  that  definition  to  reasons  such  as 
these. 

n   It  is  logical  to  use  color  as  background  tint  to  help  organize  small 
elements  into  big  ones. 

n  It  makes  sense  to  use  color  as  a  decorative  element  to  improve  the  look 
of  the  overall  product  in  large  areas,  such  as  over  a  whole  section  or 
sequence  of  pages. 

□   It  is  obviously  useful  to  utilize  color  to  emphasize  specific,  small-size 
elements,  to  which  you  wish  to  attract  attention. 

n  Color  is  legitimately  used  to  separate  one  set  of  things  from  another  on 
the  same  spread. 

n  Color  can  also  be  justifiably  used  to  create  continuity  in  a  series  of 
otherwise  unlike  units. 

To  follow  up  in  much  more  detail  about  the  editorial  use  of  color  in 
specific  situations,  please  see  Editing  by  Design,  page  226  and  following. 
For  some  thought  on  color  in  logos,  see  page  24  in  this  book;  the  subject  of 
colored  paper  is  discussed  on  page  165. 


Does  the  purpose  for  which  color  is  used  affect  the  choice  of  color? 

Indeed,  it  does.  There  are  four  fundamentally  different  functions  that  color 
performs  in  a  publication,  and  each  demands  a  different  understanding  and 
approach. 

1.  Color  as  background  tint.  If  it  is  to  be  background,  it  must  be 
subservient  to  the  material  printed  on  it.  Therefore,  you  need  to  make  the 
color  quiet,  pale,  and  restrained,  so  it  doesn't  demand  more  than  the 
subliminal  consciousness  that  the  area  is  subtly  different  from  its 
surroundings. 

2.  Color  as  decoration.  Here,  color  is  part  of  the  foreground,  and  can 
therefore  be  more  powerful,  stronger,  and  more  deliberately  visible. 
However,  it  ought  to  be  controlled  sufficiently  to  keep  it  within  the  bounds 
of  character  appropriate  to  the  publication. 

3.  Color  as  articulator  of  detail.  By  definition,  details  are  small.  It  is 


therefore  appropriate  to  pick  a  hue  that  is  bright,  cheerful,  attractive. 

4.  Color  as  a  tool  for  emphasis.  This  is  where  most  care  must  be  taken, 
for  a  rather  unexpected  reason:  the  lack  of  contrast  between  paper  and 
the  color  printed  on  it.  Black  is  the  strongest  contrast  because  black  is  dark 
and  white  paper  is  light.  Red  ink — however  bright  it  may  be — is  much  less 
dark  and  therefore  its  distinction  against  white  paper  is  much  weaker  than 
that  of  black  ink.  If  you  want  to  achieve  emphasis  (i.e.,  strong  visibility), 
you  have  to  do  one  of  two  things:  choose  either  colors  that  are  both 
colorful  and  dark  to  give  you  that  essential  contrast,  or  enlarge  the  area 
to  be  seen  in  color  so  the  amount  of  color  used  compensates  for  the 
decreased  level  of  contrast. 


What  is  the  difference  between  process  color  and  second  colors 


Four-color  process  is  the  technique  used  to  print  pictures  in  full,  natural 
colors.  The  original  picture  is  photographically  or  electronically  separated 
into  four  hues:  yellow,  red,  blue,  and  black.  Each  of  those  colors  is  made 
into  a  halftone  printing  plate  that,  when  superimposed  one  on  top  of  the 
other,  result  in  an  illusion  of  the  natural  colors.  Thus,  printing  presses  must 
have  four  separate  rollers,  each  bearing  the  requisite  ink  for  printing  those 
four  colors.  The  four  ink  colors  are  standardized,  and  by  themselves  are  not 
very  beautiful  hues.  The  red  (magenta)  is  an  aggressive  pink;  the  yellow  is 
rather  crude;  the  blue  (called  cyan)  is  a  greenish  sky-blue;  and  the  black 
isn't  even  a  good  black,  but  a  pale,  wan  kind  of  black. 

Second  colors  are  much  more  interesting:  they  can  be  any  color  you 
want  because  they  are  matched.  There  are  standard  hues  (often  demanded 
by  advertisers  and  called  AAAA  Colors,  and  they  look  bright  and  crude). 
And  there  is  the  broad  range  of  printing  ink  recipes  that  can  be  specified 
to  produce  the  colors  in  the  PMS  or  Pantone  Matching  System  color  swatch 
books  (a  widely  available  and  easily  followed  means  of  communication 


available  at  the  art  supply  shop  or  from  the  printer).  You  can  even  get  the 
printer  to  match  the  color  of  your  eyes,  though  supplying  a  swatch  might 
be  somewhat  painful! 

Two-color  presses  are  smaller,  simpler,  and  therefore  less  expensive  to 
run  than  process  color  presses,  since  they  need  merely  two  cylinders  to  carry 
the  inks  instead  of  four.  But,  as  in  all  printing,  the  simple  difference  between 
process  color  and  matched  color  isn't  quite  as  simple  as  we  have  described 
it.  If  you  are  using  a  process  color  press,  you  cannot  also  use  matched 
colors  (unless  that  press  has  a  fifth  cylinder  or  unit  on  which  such  an 
extra  ink  can  be  run,  obviously  at  added  expense).  So  you  face  the  problem 
of  what  to  do  if  one  signature  or  form  of  the  publication  is  run  on  process 
equipment  and  the  rest  is  run  on  two-color  equipment,  yet  you  simply  have 
to  have  the  same  matched  color  throughout  because  all  your  charts  have  a 
special  background  color.  It  is  possible  to  come  pretty  close  to  any  "second" 
color  by  superimposing  tints  of  the  process  colors  one  on  top  of  the  other. 
For  instance,  you  can  specify  the  exact  process  color  equivalents  for  a  large 
proportion  of  the  PMS  Second  Color  palette  from  a  guidebook.  The 
disadvantage  is  that  screens  of  color  tend  to  be  rather  expensive  when  you 
add  the  cost  of  the  artwork,  the  making  of  the  film,  and  the  stripping 
charges.  In  a  nutshell,  then:  four-color  process  can  give  you  any  color  you 
want,  if  you  are  prepared  to  pay  for  it.  Second  color  can  do  the  same  thing 
much  more  cheaply,  but  there  is  another  difference  too.  Four-color 
process  can  give  you  any  color  you  want  anywhere  you  want  it,  even  on 
the  same  page.  Second  color  is  restricted  to  that  single  color  of  ink.  (The  one 
possible  variation  is  to  use  tints  in  a  second  color  in  combination  with  tints 
of  black.  There  are  always  those  two  colors  that  you  can  mix  together  in 
the  form  of  tints  to  give  you  exciting,  subtle  combinations.) 

To  save  money,  it  is  possible  to  use  the  four-color-process  inks  as 
though  they  were  simple  second  colors — just  by  themselves  rather  than  in 
superimposed  proportions  or  screens.  The  red  is  a  most  unsatisfactory  hue, 
whether  used  solid  (100%)  or  screened  down  to  a  percentage.  Pink  it  looks, 
and  pink  it  will  always  remain — unless  you  superimpose  it  on  a  screen  of 
black,  in  which  case  it  turns  to  a  darker  pink.  The  yellow  is  a  useful  color 
used  solid,  but  it  becomes  invisible  when  screened  down.  The  blue  is  an 
excellent  color  that  can  also  be  enriched  by  a  light  screen  of  black. 
Unfortunately,  used  pure,  these  three  hues  are  rather  unattractive,  and  you 
don't  get  much  praise  for  using  them,  because  every  publication  uses  them 
and  so  they  are  commonplace. 

To  get  more  for  your  money  in  second  color,  it  may  well  be  possible 
to  split  the  fountain  :  the  roller  picks  up  ink  from  a  trough  along  its  entire 
length  and  transfers  it  to  the  four-,  or  eight-,  or  16-page  sheets  of  paper  as 
they  pass  through  the  press.  It  is  possible  to  put  a  dam  in  that  trough  so 
that  you  can  have  green  ink  on  one  side  of  the  barrier  and  purple  on  the 
other.  As  a  result,  half  the  pages  (those  in  the  green  rows)  can  have  green; 
the  other  half,  purple.  The  paper  size,  as  well  as  butting  bleeds  in  color, 
may  be  troublesome  restrictions;  but  the  printer  may  well  know  of  a  few 
other  tricks  available  for  your  use.  Solicit  his  help  and  be  aware  of  the  way 
the  pages  fall  on  the  form,  because  you  don't  want  to  have  a  purple  page 
opposite  a  green  one — if  you  can  avoid  it. 


what  colors  should  you  use? 


Every  color  has  three  characteristics:  hue,  value,  and  chroma.  Hue  is  the 
kind  of  color  it  is  (its  redness,  blueness,  greenness).  Value  is  the  degree  of 
darkness  or  lightness  that  it  has  (its  equivalent  on  a  gray  scale  going  from 
very  light  to  black).  Chroma  is  the  degree  of  brightness  or  dullness  that  it  has. 

We  tend  to  pick  out  a  color  because  we  like  its  hue,  but  you  must 
remember  that  even  more  important  than  its  hue  is  its  value:  if  it  is  too 
dark,  you  will  not  be  able  to  read  the  type  that  is  surprinted  on  it.  If  it  is 
too  light,  you  will  not  be  able  to  drop  the  type  out  in  white  and  have  it  be 
legible.  The  midrange  is  ideal.  To  help  you  visualize  colors,  many  ink 
manufacturers'  sample  swatch  books  show  black  surprint  and  white  drop-out 
from  each  color.  Others  accompany  the  swatch  book  with  an  acetate  overlay 
that  has  the  black-and-white  type  imprinted  on  it,  and  you  look  at  the  color 
under  the  overlay  in  order  to  check  the  relationships. 


How  much  color  should  you  use? 


Enough  to  make  it  noticeable,  and  thus  worth  the  effort  and  expense.  What 
you  need  to  achieve  visibility  depends  on  the  context,  surroundings,  and 
hue.  If  it  is  a  brilliant  color  with  strong  chroma,  and  if  it  will  be  seen  in  a 
sea  of  white  space,  then  a  tiny  dot  is  all  that  is  necessary.  If  it  is  a  dull 
brown,  dark  enough  to  be  nearly  black,  then  its  colorfulness  is  hardly 
noticeable  unless  it  is  run  in  a  large  swath  or  as  a  tint  over  the  whole  page. 
The  principle  is  simple,  though:  if  it's  worth  doing,  it's  worth  doing  with 
gusto. 

Flat  color  or  spot  color 

Color  can  be  used  solid  or  as  a  screen  or  tint.  It  is  usually  run  in  combination 
with  a  black  subject,  such  as  a  drawing  or  table.  If  so,  then  the  black  plate, 
probably  carrying  the  information,  is  the  key  plate,  and  the  color  is  prepared 
as  an  overlay  related  to  it. 

The  overlay  can  be  made  of  paper  (tracing  paper  that  can  be  seen 
through  and  drawn  upon  easily  in  ink  to  make  keyline  outlines)  or 
cut-and-peel  amber  or  red  film  (see  page  1 50).  The  overlay  must  also  carry 
the  specifications  for  color  and  screen  percentages,  if  any.  The  procedure  for 
making  mechanicals  when  you  use  colors  superimposed  on  top  of  each 
other  is  identical,  whether  you  will  be  using  process  colors  or  matched 
inks:  you  just  make  as  many  overlays  as  you  have  colors. 

The  difference  between  pictures  with  color  tint  and  duotones 

Covering  a  plain  black-and-white  halftone  with  a  tint  of  color  is  a  simple  and 
cheap  variant  on  the  expected  black-and-white  photograph.  Unfortunately, 
it  dulls  down  the  picture  because  the  color  fills  in  and  darkens  the  photo's 
highlights,  robbing  them  of  the  contrast  that  creates  a  sparkling  image.  If 

157 


the  color  you  use  is  light  enough,  then  you  can  get  away  with  it.  If  it  is  a 
dark  color,  however,  it  is  wise  to  make  it  paler  by  screening  it  to  a  low 
percentage  of  the  solid.  Unfortunately,  that  tends  to  rob  it  of  its  colorfulness. 

A  duotone  is  made  from  a  black-and-white  original  just  like  the  tinted 
photo,  but  in  the  duotone,  two  halftone  plates  are  made,  one  of  which  is 
run  in  black  and  the  other  surprinted  over  it  in  color.  That  way,  the  highlights 
don't  fill  in  and  a  very  interesting  third  color  is  achieved  overall.  By 
overexposing  or  underexposing  one  or  the  other  of  the  plates,  the 
proportions  of  the  two  colors  can  be  manipulated  so  that  the  resulting 
image  can  be  made  to  be  more  or  less  colorful:  brighter  or  duller,  browner 
or  blacker  (assuming  you  start  out  with  a  brown  and  black  ink). 

The  duotone  is  considerably  more  expensive  than  the  halftone  with  the 
tint  on  top,  but  much  less  expensive  than  full  four-color  process,  and,  of 
course,  you  don't  need  to  have  an  original  in  color. 

It  Is  possible  to  make  triotones — using  the  duotone  principle  in  three 
colors — or  to  print  a  duotone  in  two  colors  atop  a  screen  of  a  third  color. 
Furthermore,  it  is  also  possible  to  take  a  black-and-white  photograph  and 
pretend  it  is  a  colorful  subject  and  separate  it  as  though  it  were  full-color 
process,  resulting  in  the  richest  printed  effect.  And  there  is  such  a  thing  as 
double-dot  printing,  where  the  duotone  is  made  of  two  black  plates  (one 
perhaps  a  slightly  tinted  black  that  prints  a  little  brownish,  a  little  bluish,  or 
a  little  grayish)  that,  when  combined,  give  a  velvety  richness  to  the  pictures. 
There  is  nothing  esoteric  about  these  techniques;  all  you  need  is  money. 
(Warning:  Avoid  printing  halftones  in  color;  they  look  washed  out  unless 
you  happen  to  be  using  a  color  that  is  appropriate  to  the  subject  matter, 
like  brown  that  symbolizes  age.) 


Running  type  in  color 


You  should  do  this  only  if  the  color  is  strong  enough  to  be  legible — in  other 
words,  if  there  is  enough  contrast  between  the  whiteness  of  the  paper  and 
the  darkness  of  the  color.  Furthermore,  it  is  also  wise  to  set  the  words  in 
a  type  size  and  weight  that  will  give  ample  area  for  ink:  make  it  bigger  and 
bolder.  That  is  the  same  principle  you  need  to  remember  when  you  drop 
out  type  in  white  from  a  background.  By  making  it  bigger  and  bolder  you 
compensate  for  the  reduced  legibility  of  reversed  type. 


How  color  separations  are  made 


Turning  original  art  into  plates  for  process  color  printing  is  a  highly 
specialized  technique.  There  are  three  common  ways. 

1.  Conventional  separations.  The  original  artwork,  photograph,  or 
transparency  is  placed  in  a  process  color  camera,  which  makes  four  separate 
exposures  in  the  four  subtractive  primary  colors:  magenta  (often  called 
"process  red"),  cyan  (often  called  "process  blue"),  yellow,  and  black.  These 
negatives  are  continuous-tone  (i.e.,  not  screened)  negatives  and  can  be 
modified  to  some  degree  to  correct  or  change  the  colors.  When  they  are 


ready,  they  are  converted  to  screened  negatives  or  positives  from  which 
the  plates  are  made. 

2.  Direct-screen  separations.  This  is  a  faster  technique  that  skips  the 
conversion  step  from  continuous-tone  negatives  to  screened  negatives,  thus 
making  color  correction  more  difficult.  Other  than  that,  the  process  is 
similar  to  the  conventional  separation  process  in  that  the  four  halftone 
negatives  are  used  to  make  a  proof,  or  are  converted  into  positives  from 
which  proofs  are  made.  When  the  film  is  corrected,  it  is  used  for  exposing 
the  actual  printing  plate. 

3.  Color-scanner  separations.  The  scanner  is  an  automated  electronic 


machine  in  which  the  original  transparency  is  placed  on  a  drum  and  a 
light-sensing  stylus  travels  over  it;  by  means  of  a  computer  it  activates 
another  stylus  that  exposes  the  screened  film  separations.  Since  it  is  a  very  fast 
procedure,  it  is  the  least  expensive.  Its  quality  depends  on  the  sophistication 
of  the  equipment,  however  (for  instance,  with  or  without  laser?),  as  well  as 
the  skill  of  the  machine's  operator. 

Proofs  to  check  what  you'll  be  getting 

Three  methods  of  proofing  are  commonly  employed: 

1.  Color  keys.  This  3-M  system  is  the  most  economical.  It  consists  of 
sheets  of  acetate  superimposed  one  upon  the  other;  each  has  been 
chemically  treated  with  a  light-sensitized  pigment  (such  as  the  four  process 
colors)  and  is  then  exposed  and  developed  like  any  photographic  material, 
yielding  a  color  image  on  translucent  plastic.  Placing  one  sheet  atop  the 
next  gives  you  a  good  idea  of  what  the  printed  effect  is  likely  to  be.  When 
four  sheets  are  superimposed,  however,  a  grayish  cast  is  created  by  the 
layers  of  the  acetate  itself  and  is  bound  to  alter  the  accuracy  of  the  color. 
Accuracy,  therefore,  cannot  be  expected  from  color  keys,  but  they  are  a 
most  useful  guide,  especially  for  checking  stripping  of  tints  in  colors. 

2.  Cromalins.  Made  from  positive  film,  the  cromalin  consists  of  a 


sheet  of  paper  to  which  a  thin  sheet  of  photosensitive  film  has  been  applied 
whose  image  becomes  visible  when  a  powder  of  the  appropriate  color  is 
spread  on  it.  A  second  exposure  is  made  for  the  second  color,  a  third  for 
the  next  and  so  on,  until  the  full  series  has  been  built  up.  The  sandwich  is 
then  topped  off  by  a  protective  layer  of  plastic.  It  is  an  accurate  preview  of 
the  final  product.  (Watch  out  for  the  jargon:  you  have  a  set  of  separations 
"cromed,"  i.e.,  made  into  cromalins.  Don't  confuse  the  verb  "cromed"  with 
the  noun  chrome,  which  describes  a  transparency  larger  than  a  35mm  slide.) 

3.    Press  proofs.  A  press  proof  is  an  actual  printed  version  of  the  plates. 


which  have  been  printed  in  a  small  quantity  on  a  small  proofing  press. 
Obviously  it  is  expensive,  and  is  not  completely  reliable  since  the  press,  the 
inks,  and  possibly  even  the  paper  on  which  it  is  printed  may  be  different 
from  those  that  will  finally  be  used.  Furthermore,  greater  care  is  taken  on  an 
individualized  run  than  on  the  fast  run.  So  the  result  may  be  misleading,  and 
perhaps  not  worth  the  expense. 


Progressive  proofs 


Process  color  printing  is  done  in  a  standard  sequence:  first,  yellow  is  placed 
on  the  sheet,  followed  by  magenta,  and  then  cyan,  and  the  black  prints  last 
as  the  top  layer.  If  the  press  has  a  fifth  cylinder  carrying  a  special  matched 
color,  it  would  probably  go  down  last,  although  this  aspect  of  the  sequence 
could  vary.  Progressive  proofs  or  progs  are  paper  proofs  printed  as  press 
proofs  showing  each  individual  color  by  itself,  as  well  as  all  the  various 
combinations  in  a  sequence  that  matches  the  printing  sequence.  What  you 
get  is  a  stack  of  sheets  that  are  stapled  together  and  that  look  very  impressive 
indeed,  which  you  examine,  nodding  sagely  and  hoping  for  the  best.  The 
purpose  of  progs,  of  course,  is  to  decide  on  the  corrections  that  need  to  be 
made.  The  bottom  sheet  is  yellow  (since  that  is  the  first  color  to  go  down), 
the  next  one  over  it  is  red,     then  yellow  +  red;    then  blue; 
then  yellow  +  blue;    red  +  blue;     yellow  +  red  +  blue; 
black;    yellow  +  black;     red  +  black;    blue  +  black; 
yellow  +  red  +  black;    yellow  +  blue  +  black;    red  +  blue  +  black; 
yellow  +  red  +  blue    +  black,  i.e.,  the  final  image  is  on  top. 

You  may  often  wistfully  wonder  what  it  would  be  like  to  have  the 
courage  to  use  only  three  of  the  four  colors,  because  the  red/yellow/black 
combination  is  often  so  much  more  fun  than  the  realistic  full-color  rendition 
of  your  original  photograph.  But  you  shrug  off  that  temptation. 

Proofs  show  color  bars  along  the  bottom  edge  of  the  paper.  These  are 
standardized  according  to  specifications  set  up  by  the  Magazine  Publishers 
Association  and  are  references  to  the  quality  of  the  printing  process  in 
terms  of  the  amounts  of  ink,  trapping,  and  densities  that  are  being  produced. 


How  to  correct  color  proofs 


The  character  of  a  transparency,  which  depends  on  light  shining  through 
film,  cannot  possibly  be  duplicated  by  a  printed  version  whose  impression 
depends  on  light  being  reflected  off  a  sheet  of  paper.  They  are  two  quite 
different  mediums.  You  must,  therefore,  take  this  into  account,  compensate 
for  it,  examine  the  printed  result  on  its  own,  and  analyze  it  with  respect 
to  its  own  characteristics.  Do  you  attempt  to  tell  the  technicians  in  technical 
terms  what  they  ought  to  do  (for  instance,  "  +  15  blue-5  mag,  o.k.  on 
Y  &  K*")?  Of  course  not!  You  tell  them  as  clearly  and  precisely  as  possible 
your  reactions  to  the  colors  as  interpretations  of  the  story.  It  is  the  effect 
on  your  readers  that  matters.  Is  the  effect  created  by  the  reproduction  the 
effect  that  you,  as  editor,  wish  to  have  created?  If  not,  then  say  so.  If  the 
object  looks  too  green,  write  on  the  proof  "Too  green"  and  draw  an  arrow 
to  the  outline  of  the  area  that  offends  you.  If  the  whole  picture  looks  flat 
and  dull,  write  "Too  dull,  make  more  contrasting."  If  you  think  there  ought 
to  be  more  sparkle,  say  "Emphasize  highlights."  Instructions  such  as  these 
are  qualitative  criticisms  that  will  be  interpreted  in  technical  terms  by  the 
technician.  You  tell  them  what  you  need  done  from  your  point  of  view. 
It  is  their  expertise  that  will  produce  it  for  you. 

But  how  can  you  be  sure  they  will  do  it?  If  you  have  the  time  and 
*K  is  shorthand  for  blac/c  to  distinguish  it  from  blue. 


money,  you  can  order  a  second  set  of  proofs.  That  is  rarely  done,  however, 
especially  If  your  supplier  is  a  respected  house.  You  assume  that  your 
instructions  will  be  followed  and  hope  that  the  printed  result  (which  will 
inevitably  be  somewhat  different  from  the  proof  anyway)  will  be  what  you 
hope  it  to  be.  What  happens  in  practice,  of  course,  is  that  by  the  time  the 
piece  is  printed  you  have  forgotten  the  minutiae  that  irritated  you  about  the 
proofs.  You  see  the  piece  in  its  entirety  from  a  totally  different  angle — as  a 
complete  object  unto  itself,  the  way  the  reader  will  see  it — and  those 
minuscule  carpings  somehow  seem  to  matter  much  less  than  they  did  before. 

Squinting  through  a  4"  x  5"  transparency  into  a  60-watt  light  bulb  will 
make  the  colors  look  very  different  from  the  same  image  looked  at  against 
the  bright  blue  sky.  The  industry  has  set  up  standards  for  viewing  originals 
and  printed  versions  in  order  to  prevent  misunderstanding  between  client 
and  supplier.  So  if  you  use  a  great  deal  of  color,  it  is  wise  to  invest  in  a 
light  box  that  has  the  controlled  standardized  lighting  sources  for  viewing 
transparencies,  and  set  up  a  space  that  is  correctly  lit  for  viewing  proofs. 

How  to  get  more  color  for  less  investment 

1 .  By  ganging  up  or  common  focus.  This  means  simply  that  several 
subjects  are  color-separated  simultaneously  as  though  they  were  a  single 
unit,  reducing  the  unit  cost  (although,  obviously,  you  have  to  pay  for  a  very 
large  overall  piece,  plus  a  premium  for  every  unit  of  which  the  entire  piece 
is  made).  The  limitations:  all  originals  have  to  be  either  transparencies  or 
reflection  copy,  because  you  can't  mix  them  in  one  batch;  all  originals  must 
be  to  the  same  focus  for  one  single  camera  action;  and  all  must  have  a 
similar  density  of  color.  You  can't  mix  pale,  overexposed  pictures  with  dark, 
underexposed  ones  because  the  camera  needs  to  be  set  for  a  median  that 
will  probably  ruin  both  extremes.  Lastly,  you  must  clearly  fit  your  material 
into  the  maximum  size  that  the  supplier's  equipment  can  produce  in  one 
shot,  both  in  maximum  film  size  and  in  maximum  copyboard  size  (the  holder 
in  which  the  originals  are  inserted  for  processing). 

2.  Duping  to  size.  If  your  originals  are  not  all  reduced  to  the  same 
focus  and  thus  cannot  be  ganged  up,  you  can  have  duplicate  transparencies 
made  to  the  correct  size  that  you  need.  It  is  cheaper  to  copy  a  photograph 
before  it  is  separated  (duplicating  or  "duping"  it)  and  gang  it  up  for  the 
separation  than  to  have  individual  separations  made. 

3.  Page  positioning.  If  you  are  going  to  be  duping  anything,  you  might 


as  well  have  the  dupes  composed  so  that  they  are  mounted  on  acetate 
exactly  as  they  will  appear  in  print  and  are  turned  into  separations  that  way. 
That  dramatically  reduces  the  stripping  charges:  every  time  you  have  a  color 
picture,  the  printer  must  strip  four  individual  pieces  of  film  (one  each  for 
the  red,  yellow,  blue,  and  black  elements),  and  each  strip  costs  a  given  price. 
If  you  have,  say,  four  pictures  on  the  page,  you  will  be  paying  for  16  strip 
charges.  But  if  you  page-position  them,  you  pay  for  only  four  stripping 
charges.  The  duping  lab  or  prep  house  needs  an  accurate  mechanical  to 
indicate  which  photo  goes  where  and  at  what  focus  and  cropping. 


What 
you  need 
to  know 
about 
paper 


Paper  has  physical  characteristics  that  affect  the  recipient's  psychological 
reaction.  Heavy,  dull-coated,  expensive-looking  material  is  interpreted  as 
carrying  matter  of  greater  value  than  newsprint  might.  Whatever  is  printed 
on  newsprint  is  likely  to  have  a  very  short  shelf  life — very  few  newspapers 
are  filed  away  for  future  reference.  Annual  reports  are  something  else  again! 
Yet  information  in  that  newspaper  may  well  be  far  more  valuable  than  the 
pap  usually  found  in  the  annual  report.  The  perceived  value  is  a  direct 
result  of  the  looks  and,  more  importantly,  the  feel  of  the  stock — the  paper 
on  which  the  materia!  is  printed. 

Is  it  heavy  or  light?  Stiff  or  floppy?  Rough  or  smooth  in  texture? 
Crinkly  or  flabby?  Handmade  or  machine  made?  Slick  or  pulp? 

Your  choice  is  probably  going  to  have  to  be  based  on  several  criteria: 
appropriateness  to  the  product  and  to  the  audience  you  are  reaching; 
what  is  compatible  with  your  printer's  presses;  what  is  available;  what  your 
designer  suggests;  and — what  is  probably  going  to  sway  your  decision  most — 
money.  Paper  costs  have  risen  so  much  that  they  have  absorbed  a  large 
proportion  of  the  production  budget,  and  you  may  well  need  to  compromise 
on  second  best.  However,  the  stock  you  use  is  crucial  in  persuading  your 
reader  of  the  value  of  your  product,  and  that's  why  you  should  invest  more 
in  paper  than  you  might  otherwise  think. 

With  that  as  a  philosophy,  how  do  you  go  about  specifying  what  you 
want  in  paper?  It  is  a  dauntingly  complicated  and  specialized  area  of 
knowledge,  where  common  sense  and  observation  can  only  serve  you  up 
to  a  point.  There  are  technicalities  you  must  know  about  in  order  to  make 
confident  decisions.  Your  printer  will  probably  be  your  prime  source  of 
information  and  advice,  and  it  is  likely  that  you'll  be  using  whatever  stock  he 
has  available  or  recommends.  That  materia!  is  coordinated  to  the  presses 
he  is  using  by  its  size  (sheet  or  rolls)  and  appropriateness  or  "runability." 
The  printer  buys  it  in  bulk,  keeps  it  in  stock,  and  resells  it  to  the  customer  at 
a  markup,  as  part  of  the  printing  service.  If  you  want  special  stock,  you  can 
ask  the  printer  to  order  it  for  you,  or  you  can  buy  it  independently  and 
supply  it  to  the  printer  yourself.  You  might  even  save  some  money  that  way, 
but  the  aggravation  and  need  for  expertise  may  far  outweigh  such  savings. 

All  paper  manufacturers  promote  their  products  actively  with  printed 
samples,  free  dummies  made  to  your  specification  on  request,  and 
promotional  materials  of  all  sorts,  as  well  as  sales  representatives  who  will 
gladly  come  to  discuss  your  needs  and  suggest  solutions.  Find  them  in  the 
Yellow  Pages  under  "Paper  Distributors." 

But  before  you  start,  you  had  better  bone  up  on  a  few  fundamentals  to 
understand  what  paper  dealers  are  talking  about. 


How  big  is  a  piece  of  paper? 


It  depends — and  that's  the  problem.  In  paper  everything  depends!  Most 
printing  is  done  on  sheets  that  are  much  larger  than  the  final  page  size 
(except  photocopying,  which  is  done  on  the  standard  8y2"  x  11"  sheets; 


3V2"  X  14"  and  8^  2'"  x  17"  may  also  be  available).  However,  let  us  assume  that 
your  finished  page  size,  the  trim  size,  is  8V2"  x  11".  It  is  likely  that  it  will  be 
run  on  a  sheet  of  paper  that  measures  11"  x  17"  and  thus  will  yield  a  four-page 
signature,  printing  two  pages  to  each  side.  A  sheet  of  17"  x  22"  paper  yields 
an  eight-page  signature.  A  16-page  signature  fits  onto  a  23"  x  35"  sheet 
(to  see  typical  impositions,  see  page  96).  Printing  four  pages  on  each  side 
at  a  time  is  called  "four  up";  eight  at  a  time  is  called  "eight  up";  16  at  a 
time  is — brilliant! 

In  fact,  the  paper  comes  yet  a  little  bigger,  allowing  a  sliver  of  paper 
around  the  edges  to  be  trimmed  after  the  sheet  has  been  printed  and  folded 
and  is  ready  to  be  bound.  The  economics  of  printing  and  the  cost  of  paper 
dictate  that  you  work  within  the  standardized  size  system.  That  is  also  why 
you  should  consider  always  printing  in  multiples  of  four  pages  and  why  you 
have  to  take  waste  into  account  in  planning  your  impositions. 

But  the  plot  thickens:  Paper  sizes,  even  the  standard  ones,  vary 
according  to  the  grade  of  paper. 

Bond  paper,  used  for  letters  and  business  forms,  comes  in  a  standard 
17"  X  22"  size. 

Book  paper,  offset  paper ,  and  coated  paper,  each  specifically  made  for 
their  particular  printing  purposes,  come  in  standard  25"  x  38"  sheets. 

Newsprint  comes  in  sheets  that  measure  24"  x  36". 

Text  paper,  used  for  booklets  and  brochures  that  warrant  color  and 
texture,  comes  in  a  25"  x  38"  size. 

Cover  stock,  often  coordinated  with  text  paper  in  color  and  texture  but 
made  to  a  much  heavier  weight,  measures  20"  x  26"  as  a  standard  size. 

You  need  to  know  the  kind  of  paper  and  thus  the  standard  size  of  the 
sheet  before  discussing: 


Basis  weight 


Briefly  defined,  it  is  the  weight  in  pounds  of  a  ream  (500  sheets)  in  the  size 
of  that  particular  grade.  If  you  have  a  "basis  80  text,"  you  are  actually  talking 
about  a  stack  of  500  sheets  of  text  paper  that  would  weigh  80  lbs.,  each 
sheet  measuring  25"  x  38".  That  same  paper  can  also  be  referred  to  as 
"80-lb.  text."  So  far,  this  is  not  difficult.  What  is  frustrating  is  that  in  price 
and  availability  tables,  paper  manufacturers  don't  talk  in  terms  of  a  ream  of 
500  sheets,  but  list  everything  in  multiples  of  1000  sheets,  or  two  reams,  or  one 
"M."  So  that  same  80-lb.  text  has  to  be  seen  in  the  tables  as  25"  x  38" — 160  M. 

To  complicate  your  life  somewhat  further,  the  basic  sizes  mentioned 
here  are  only  reference  numbers  used  for  defining  basis  weight.  The  paper  can 
actually  be  purchased  in  all  sorts  of  other  sizes,  and,  needless  to  say,  there 
are  also  all  sorts  of  different  basis  weights  made  in  the  various  paper  grades. 

Lest  you  should  think  that  the  complexities  of  paper  nomenclature  and 
cataloging  have  been  fully  explained,  be  of  good  cheer — they  have  not. 
Should  you  be  talking  about  business  paper,  the  kind  you  type  or  write  on,  a 
whole  different  system  is  used.  Instead  of  basis  weight,  you  talk  about 
substance  weight  — a  measurement  of  a  ream  (500  sheets)  of  paper  measuring 
17"  X  22"  from  which  ledger,  bond,  manifold,  and  mimeograph  papers  are 
cut.  So  in  this  area,  your  symbols  are  "Sub-16,"  "Sub-20,"  or  "Sub-24." 


163 


Weight  of  stock  may  be  an  important  consideration  if  you  are  mailing 
your  publication.  It  is  wise  to  ask  the  paper  supplier  to  make  a  dummy  of  the 
piece  in  the  stock  you  expect  to  use  with  the  right  number  of  pages  in  it  and 
have  it  weighed  at  the  post  office.  You  may  well  have  to  retrench  a  little  and 
go  lighter.  But  that  may  not  necessarily  make  your  product  feel  cheaper  or 
flimsier,  because  you  have  to  consider  the  next  attribute  of  paper,  which  is: 


Bulking  and  thickness 


This  is  a  measure  of  the  thickness  of  a  single  sheet  of  paper  (referred  to  as 
caliper  in  the  trade)  in  thousandths  of  an  inch,  or  mils.  You  don't  need  to 
know  that  figure.  What  you  do  need  to  realize,  however,  is  that  it  is  perfectly 
possible  for  one  piece  of  paper  to  measure  fatter  or  thinner  than  another,  yet 
both  weigh  the  same.  Thickness  depends  on  the  degree  of  squeezing  that 
the  paper  underwent  in  the  manufacturing  process.  So  it  is  reasonable  to 
have  a  piece  of  paper  that  weighs  less,  yet  feels  thicker  than  another.  For  a 
publication  that  consists  of  just  a  few  pages,  a  thicker-feeling  sheet  will  add 
bulk  and  apparent  weight. 

In  papers  used  for  manufacturing  books,  bulk  is  not  measured  in  terms 
of  the  thickness  of  a  single  sheet,  but  rather  in  terms  of  number  of  pages 
per  inch  (ppi). 

The  whole  archaic  measuring  system  that  has  evolved  over  the  centuries 
into  the  complexity  we  now  have  will,  perforce,  be  converted  to  metric  in  due 
course.  The  period  of  transition  is  a  time  to  contemplate  with  trepidation. 


Show-through  and  opacity 


Brightness 


If  you  can  see  the  printing  from  one  side  through  the  other  side  of  the 
paper,  you  have  show-through.  Clearly,  the  thickness  of  the  paper  has 
something  to  do  with  this:  The  thicker  it  is,  the  less  show-through  you  are 
likely  to  have.  But  it  may  not  necessarily  be  thickness  alone,  because  opacity 
can  be  affected  by  chemicals  in  the  paper.  Adding  mineral  fillers  can  cut 
down  on  show-through  even  in  a  very  thin  sheet.  And  having  a  sheet  that 
has  a  low  basis  weight  and  high  bulk  may  give  you  a  thick-feeling  piece  of 
paper,  but  the  fibers  may  be  so  loosely  packed  that  the  ink  gets  sucked 
through  to  the  other  side. 

You  have  to  see  printed  samples  to  make  an  intelligent  judgment  on 
this  problem.  The  question  that  really  concerns  you  is  this:  How  much 
show-through  are  you  willing  to  live  with?  The  less  the  paper  costs,  the 
greater  the  likelihood  of  show-through. 


Brightness  is  an  important  quality  in  paper  because  it  affects  the  way  pictures 
will  appear.  The  brighter  the  piece  of  paper,  the  more  sparkle  and  contrast 
you  can  expect  to  have  in  your  black-and-white  photos.  Fluorescent 
brighteners  can  be  added  to  the  paper  to  create  startling  effects.  But  if  you 
don't  have  many  photos,  or  if  they  are  not  important  to  your  publication, 
the  brightness  is  not  a  quality  you  should  need  to  pay  a  premium  price  for. 


Shininess 


Finishes 


Colored  stock 


Shininess  is  usually  achieved  by  coating  the  paper  with  chemicals  that  close 
up  the  surface.  The  surface  can  appear  dull  or  glossy,  or  any  degree  of 
shininess  in  between.  But  whatever  that  degree  of  shininess  may  be,  the 
coated  printing  surface  has  been  made  to  have  better  ink  "hold-out"  or 
resistance  to  absorption  than  uncoated  stocks  have.  Why  do  you  need  it? 
To  reproduce  halftones  better.  Screens  have  better  definition  and  better 
density  on  coated  paper  than  you  could  expect  on  uncoated  paper.  That  is 
why  you  can  use  much  finer  screens  on  coated  paper — up  to  150-line  or 
even  200-line.  On  the  other  hand,  the  shinier  the  paper  is,  the  more  difficult 
it  becomes  to  read  the  text  because  of  the  mirror  effect  caused  by  highlights 
on  that  paper.  Readers  see  a  greater  value  in  "slick"  publications  than  they 
do  in  "pulps,"  so  you  have  that  aspect  of  value  judgment  to  consider  in 
your  decision  making. 


These  affect  the  smoothness  of  paper  and  are  the  result  of  the  manufacturing 
process.  As  the  sheet  of  paper  passes  through  the  various  rollers  in  the 
papermaking  machine,  the  number  and  texture  of  those  rollers  affects  the 
final  surface.  Uncoated  book  papers  may  be  produced  in  the  following 
degrees  of  smoothness:  antique  (the  roughest),  eggshell,  vellum,  English 
finish,  machine  finish  (the  smoothest).*  Further  smoothness  can  be  produced 
by  coating.  Textures  can  also  be  embossed  on  the  sheet  by  passing  it  through 
yet  another  machine  that  produces  patterns  such  as  linen,  tweed,  pebble, 
and  more. 

Wove  paper  has  a  uniformly  smooth  surface.  Laid  paper  has  parallel 
lines  within  it.  Offset  papers  have  been  coated  with  sizing  to  make  the 
surface  less  porous  and  prevent  the  water  in  the  ink  from  seeping  into  the 
fibers  of  the  paper. 


We  are  used  to  white  paper.  It  yields  the  best  results  as  far  as  contrast  with 
black  ink  is  concerned.  Whether  this  is  in  fact  the  ideal  is  arguable:  Some 
recent  tests  have  shown  that  that  very  contrast  may  be  detrimental  to 
readership  and  that  a  gentler  contrast,  such  as  you  get  by  printing  black  on 
light  grey,  might  be  much  better.  (Lessening  the  contrast  has  been  found  to 
be  helpful  in  helping  dyslexic  children  read.) 

An  unlimited  palette  of  colors  is  available  from  various  paper 

•Antique  paper  is  one  whose  surface  has  been  neither  polished  (also  called  calendered)  nor 
coated.  Eggshell  finishes  give  uncoated  paper  a  nonglossy,  soft  effect  and  are  frequently 
used  for  antique  papers.  Vellum  finishes  on  paper  result  in  smooth,  somewhat  waxlike  feel 
and  some  translucency.  A  smooth  paper  that  has  been  calendered  but  not  glossed  is  called 
English  finish,  while  machine  finish  signifies  paper  that  has  been  smoothed  by  passing 
through  several  rolls  of  the  calendering  machine.  These  and  other  paper  terms  may  be 
found  in  The  Bookman's  Glossary,  Sixth  Edition,  edited  by  Jean  Peters  (New  York:  Bowker, 
1983),  and  Dictionary  of  Publishing  by  David  Brownstone  and  I.  Franck  (New  York: 
Van  Nostrand  Reinhold,  1982). 


Newsprint 


manufacturers.  Is  it  wise  to  use  colored  stock?  Yes,  why  not — if  it  is  used 
carefully  and  wisely,  and  if  it  is  appropriate  to  the  product  at  hand.  Problems 
to  look  out  for: 

1.  Printing  halftones  on  colored  stock  usually  makes  them  appear 
muddy  and  dingy.  That's  because  the  highlights  (which  we  expect  to  appear 
"white")  cannot  be  any  lighter  than  the  color  of  the  paper  on  which  they 
are  printed.  Color,  however,  is  a  question  not  merely  of  the  hue  (redness, 
blueness,  etc.)  but  also  of  the  chroma  (the  intensity  of  that  redness  or 
blueness),  as  well  as  the  value  (the  darkness  or  lightness,  i.e.,  the  equivalent 
in  black  and  white  to  grayness).  If  your  colored  paper  has  a  dark  value,  the 
highlights  cannot  help  but  appear  dark,  dull,  and  lifeless. 

2.  Printing  in  colored  ink  atop  colored  stock  is  potentially  very  exciting 
as  a  trick  to  get  attention  or  to  give  your  publication  its  own  special  character. 
But  it  is  playing  with  fire  in  terms  of  legibility  and  reader  fatigue.  Invest  in  a 
test  run  before  committing  yourself  to  a  plunge  of  this  nature.  By  all  means, 
look  at  the  promotion  material  put  out  by  the  paper  companies.  They 
delight  the  eye  with  such  things,  and  make  you  wistful  for  their  freedom  and 
excitement,  their  quality  and  originality.  But  be  aware  of  the  fact  that  on 
those  promotion  pieces,  the  tricks  depend  on  the  most  subtle  uses  of  various 
kinds  of  inks — transparent  and  opaque — running  colors  in  unexpected 
rotation  (i.e.,  what  gets  printed  on  top  of  what)  and  so  on.  You  had  better 
know  about  these  tricks.  They  are  always  spelled  out  in  detail  in  the  technical 
notes  printed  on  the  last  page  of  those  promotion  pieces. 

3.  Be  sure  that  the  particular  color  will  remain  in  stock  for  the  foreseeable 
future,  and  that  your  next  issue  won't  have  to  be  printed  on  a  different 
material.  The  color  you  choose  ought  to  become  one  of  your  recognition 
symbols,  just  like  the  logo,  the  typography,  and  the  shape  of  the  piece 
overall.  The  paradox  is,  of  course,  that  the  more  special  your  color  is,  the 

less  likely  is  it  to  remain  in  stock  for  a  long  time.  Its  specialness  prevents  it 
from  selling  widely,  and  it  is  obviously  the  wide  sellers  that  the  paper 
companies  keep  in  stock.  Therefore,  you  are  most  likely  to  wind  up  with  a 
fairly  ordinary-looking  color  because  of  its  dependable  availability. 


Anything  that  is  printed  on  newsprint  gains  an  aura  of  newsworthiness  from 
the  expectation  that  newsprint  has  built  up  in  the  recipient  over  a  long 
tradition.  This  built-in  advantage  balances  the  negative  perception  of  the 
cheapness  and,  therefore,  the  lack  of  permanent  value  of  the  piece  that  is 
printed  on  newsprint.  That  built-in  newsiness  needs  to  be  supported  and 
paralleled,  however,  by  the  styling  of  the  rest  of  the  product  if  its  positive 
characteristic  is  to  be  turned  to  your  advantage.  Thus,  the  way  the  copy  is 
written,  the  way  the  headlines  are  handled,  the  way  the  pictures  are  placed 
and  chosen,  the  way  the  cut  lines  (captions)  are  written — all  should  add  up 
to  a  well-thought-through  package  appropriate  to  the  physical  material. 

A  new,  heavier  version  of  newsprint  is  gaining  wide  acceptance.  It  runs 
color  well,  and  its  perceived  value  is  greater  than  that  of  the  regular  light 
ground  wood  stock  (a  slang  term  for  newsprint). 


Envelopes 


The  most  common  envelope  sizes: 


#  9—3Va"x87e" 
#10 — V/b"x9V2" 
#11-^1/2"  xioys" 


In  the  planning  of  any  publication,  it  is  wise  to  take  distribution  into  account. 
If  that  includes  mailing,  then  it  is  merely  common  sense  to  coordinate  the 
envelope  with  the  contents  so  that  they  fit  physically,  as  well  as  in  terms  of 
style.  Chances  are  that  standard-size  envelopes  are  available  in  the  same 
color  and  texture  of  paper  that  you  are  using  inside,  be  it  text  or  bond  paper. 
Cheapest,  of  course,  are  the  ready-made  envelopes  that  come  in  all  sorts  of 
standard  sizes.  Large-size  envelopes  for  bulky  or  heavy  mailing  use  kraft 
papers — the  brown  stuff  also  generally  available  in  white  or  gray. 

Remember  that  envelopes  also  have  a  variety  of  features:  the  type  of 
flap  (square  or  pointed);  the  flap  on  the  short  or  the  long  dimension;  a 
variety  of  seam  placements  on  the  back  of  the  envelope;  with  or  without 
adhesive,  button,  string,  clasp;  with  or  without  windows;  and  so  on.  Your 
printer  can  supply  you  with  a  chart  showing  the  range  of  materials,  sizes, 
and  finishes  available  to  choose  from  in  the  ready-made  and  custom-made 
envelopes. 


what  you 
absolutely 


The  way  the  piece  will  be  printed  and  bound  affects  the  way  you  prepare 
III  I    I  ^T  the  copy,  what  you  can  do  with  it,  how  far  you  can  go  to  embellish  the 

product,  what  to  expect  in  terms  of  quality  of  reproduction  in  your  pictures, 
and  the  degree  of  excellence  of  the  overall  product  that  will  reflect  on  you 
and  your  organization.  The  choice  of  reproduction  technique  depends  on 
a  number  of  interrelated  factors: 

1.  The  print  run  (how  many  copies  you  will  need)  and  the  frequency 
of  publishing. 

2.  The  availability  of  printing  suppliers  in  your  vicinity. 

3.  The  kind  of  service  they  can  supply  (quick  reproduction  or  full-scale 
commercial  printing). 

4.  The  availability  of  in-house  equipment  (photocopying  or  mimeo 
machinery  in  the  basement  or  on  your  desk  top). 

5.  The  existence  of  printing  contracts,  if  any. 

6.  The  scheduling  of  your  production  (whether  you  need  rush  service 
I                                          while  you  wait,  or  whether  you  are  so  well  organized  you  can  spare  a  few 

3nCl  days  at  the  end). 

7.  The  need  for  color  (passing  through  the  press  once  for  each  color 
can  be  a  nuisance,  but  it  is  cheaper  than  printing  on  a  multicolor  press, 
whose  cost  is  balanced  by  the  simplicity  and  speed  of  production). 

8.  The  distance  from  the  office  to  the  printer  (the  further  away  you  are, 
the  more  difficult  it  becomes  to  make  those  inevitable  last-minute  changes). 

9.  Money,  of  course.  Money  isn't  just  a  factor  in  the  cost  of  the  printing 
itself,  but  in  other  aspects  of  the  production  process — the  comparative  cost 
of  the  paper  appropriate  to  the  machinery  to  be  used;  the  cost  of  your  own 
time  devoted  to  running  it  yourself,  as  compared  to  buying  the  service  from 
professionals;  and  so  forth. 

Here  is  a  list  of  the  basic  options  in  printing.  No  specific  recommendations 
can  be  made  since  there  are  so  many  requirements,  and  individual  situations 
have  to  be  taken  into  account  in  any  decision. 


know 

about 

printing, 

folding, 

binding. 


finishing 


Stenciling  it  yourself 


The  most  primitive  reproduction  method  for  runs  of  up  to  about  100  copies 
is  the  spirit  duplicator — that  rather  smelly,  smeary  purple-inked  product  so 
reminiscent  of  school  examinations.  It  is  a  dye  carbon  transfer  process  using 
two  sheets  of  paper;  the  image  is  transferred  onto  the  master  from  the  back 
of  the  top  sheet,  which,  like  carbon  paper,  bears  a  coating  of  dye  carbon. 
In  turn,  the  printed  copies  pick  up  an  image  of  that  dye  when  they  are 
passed  over  the  master  in  the  press.  Naturally,  the  master  gets  weaker  and 
paler  and  the  type  fuzzier  as  the  run  progresses. 


Mimeographing 


This  is  also  a  direct-stencil  method  of  reproduction,  which  utilizes  a  stencil 
that  used  to  have  to  be  "cut"  by  the  editor.  The  stencil  is  made  of  a  thin, 
porous  material  coated  with  a  waxy  substance  that  is  punctured  by  typewriter 
keys  or  any  other  sharp  instrument.  Ink  passes  through  such  breaks  when  the 
stencil  is  placed  on  a  press  between  the  ink  roll  and  paper  to  be  printed  on. 
Although  the  term  "mimeograph"  was  the  name  of  a  specific  machine, 
it  has  become  the  generic  term  for  this  kind  of  reproduction,  no  matter 
whose  machinery  is  actually  used  (like  "frigidaire"  for  icebox  and  "escalator" 
for  moving  staircase).  There  are  a  number  of  manufacturers  actively 
improving,  promoting,  selling,  and  servicing  such  equipment. 

The  image  that  a  mimeographed  publication  has  on  the  recipient  is  that 
of  a  homemade,  comparatively  inexpensive  product.  Thus,  it  can  have  all  the 
advantages  of  intimate,  in-group  personalization.  The  image  mimeographed 
publications  produce  in  the  mind  of  the  editor  is  one  of  struggles  with 
stencils,  problems  in  making  corrections,  and  time-consuming  frustration. 
That  used  to  be  the  case,  but  it  is  by  no  means  so  any  more,  now  that 
electronic  stencils  can  be   made  at  comparatively  low  cost  from  copy 
prepared  exactly  the  same  way  as  for  offset  or  photocopying.  This  enables 
you  to  use  display  type,  drawings,  and  even  photographs  (screened  to  a 
rather  coarse-looking  85-line  screen,  but  better  than  nothing).  A  great 
advantage  of  mimeo  is  its  moderate  expense.  The  machinery  is  simple,  so  it 
costs  less  to  buy  or  lease,  and  the  paper  you  use  needs  to  be  porous,  so 
cheaper  stock  is  technically  the  correct  kind  to  be  using.  (It  also  comes  in  a 
variety  of  pale  colors.)  Since  the  equipment  is  not  difficult  to  use,  it  could 
make  good  sense  to  get  a  machine  for  doing  it  yourself,  because  that  way 
you  can  also  control  it  yourself.  Such  control  has  built-in  advantages: 
convenience,  cheapness,  and  precision.  It  also  has  disadvantages:  messiness, 
the  need  for  periodic  maintenance,  lots  of  space  devoted  only  to  its  use, 
time  required  for  upkeep,  preparation,  running,  and  washing  off,  as  well  as 
the  problems  that  arise  when  it  refuses  to  perform  halfway  through  the  run. 


Photocopying  and  xerography 


Electrostatic  printing  or  xerography  depends  on  electric  charges  to  organize 
dry  ink  powder  to  fall  on  blank  paper  where  marks  on  the  original  paper  are 
sensed  by  the  equipment.  The  ink  particles  hurtle  into  position  like  iron 
filings  responding  to  a  magnet  and  are  permanently  fused  onto  the  paper  by 
heat.  The  new  machinery  can  print  on  both  sides  of  the  paper  on  a  variety  of 
sheet  sizes  up  to  11"  x  17",  produce  up  to  150  copies  a  minute,  and  separate, 
collate,  and  even  staple  in  the  same  pass.  Needless  to  say,  the  per-copy  cost 
is  higher  than  mimeo;  it  is  more  economical  than  offset,  however,  if  the 
number  of  copies  needed  is  small  but  good  quality  is  required. 

One  disadvantage  of  photocopying:  It  can  only  be  done  in  black. 
Therefore,  to  make  a  more  colorful  product,  you  must  either  use  colored 
stock  or  have  your  logo  preprinted  in  color  (on  colored  stock  !)  and  imprint 
your  text  In  a  subsequent  operation. 

169 


Letterpress 


The  method  used  by  Gutenberg,  who  invented  movable  type,  is  still  in  some 
use,  although  the  technology  has  been  considerably  improved  since  1437! 
Letterpress  is  also  called  relief  printing  because  the  parts  that  are  to  print 
stand  out  above  the  nonprinting  background;  the  ink  is  applied  by  rollers  to 
those  bumps  and  is,  in  turn,  transferred  to  the  paper  in  an  impression  that  is 
made  under  considerable  pressure,  often  damaging  the  original  metal  pieces. 
That  is  why  exact  duplicates,  called  electroplates  or  electros,  are  made. 
Halftones  are  etched  on  photo-sensitive  copper  sheets  with  acid  and  then 
attached  to  wooden  blocks  that  are  assembled  on  the  stone  together  with 
the  type.  The  type  is  made  of  lead  (actually  a  specially  formulated  alloy) 
cast  into  line  lengths  on  the  linotype  (line  of  type!)  machine,  after  each  line 
of  text  has  been  assembled  as  a  sequence  of  individual  letter  molds. 

Page  makeup  is  copied  from  the  layout,  or  dummy,  that  the  editors  have 
prepared  from  proofs  of  the  type  and  the  cuts  (that's  the  old  word  for 
halftones,  or  illustrations  of  any  kind).  The  type,  by  the  way,  is  stored  on  long 
trays  called  galleys  when  it  comes  off  the  linotype  machine;  hence,  the  word 
"galley"  for  a  long  column  of  raw  type. 


Offset 


Offset  lithography,  photo-offset,  litho,  sheet-fed  offset,  web  offset — all  are 
variations  on  the  basic  technology  of  planography,  in  which  the  printing  is 
done  from  a  flat  surface.  The  principle  on  which  it  is  based  is  simple:  Oil  and 
water  don't  mix.  The  surface  of  the  printing  plate  is  chemically  treated  in 
such  a  way  that  the  areas  that  print  attract  ink  and  repel  water,  whereas  the 
areas  that  do  not  print  attract  water  and  repel  ink. 

It  is  called  lithography — stone  printing — because  Aloys  Senefelder 
developed  it  around  1796  as  a  method  of  printing  from  slabs  of  limestone, 
on  which  he  drew  with  greasy  pencil  and  which  he  then  covered  with  acid. 
The  greasy  parts  were  unaffected,  but  the  clear  parts  later  repelled  the  ink 
that  adhered  to  the  greasy  parts.  Paper  pressed  onto  the  stone  picked  up  the 
ink,  but  not  from  the  parts  that  were  merely  wet  with  water. 

The  reason  why  it  is  called  offset  is  quite  logical.  Although  fine  artists 
continue  using  the  old  method  of  lithography  for  their  special  purposes,  we 
no  longer  print  from  slabs  of  limestone  in  commercial  printing.  Instead, 
plates  are  made  of  metal  or  plastic  and  wrapped  around  cylinders  or  rollers 
on  the  press;  then  the  ink  is  transferred — set  off,  or  offset — from  the  printing 
plate  onto  a  smooth  rubber  blanket  on  a  second  roller,  which,  in  turn,  prints 
the  ink  onto  the  sheet  of  paper  passing  beneath  it. 

Sheet-fed  offset  describes  a  process  in  which  the  press  is  fed  precut 
sheets  of  paper.  Web  offset  defines  a  press  fed  with  paper  from  rolls;  the 
paper  is  cut  into  signature-sized  sheets  after  the  printing  has  been  done. 

Plates  or  masters  are  made  of  aluminum,  plastic,  or  treated  paper.  For 
short  runs  of  perhaps  five  thousand  copies  that  do  not  require  too  much  fine 
detail  in  the  halftones,  usually  paper  plates  are  used.  Halftone  screens  should 
not  be  finer  than  100  lines.  This  kind  of  offset  printing  is  produced  by  the 


fast-print  shops,  whether  chain  or  individually  owned,  that  typically  occupy 
storefront  premises  in  shopping  centers.  Such  shops  are  probably  restricted 
to  a  maximum  of  11"  x  17"  paper  size  and  have  a  limited  stock  of  papers  to 
choose  from.  The  quality  they  produce  can  vary,  depending  on  the 
equipment  as  well  as  the  skill  of  the  people  involved,  but  it  is  usually 
remarkably  good  for  the  price. 

Commercial  printers  are  expected  to  deliver  far  better  quality:  finer 
halftones  with  better  detail  using  up  to  150-line  screens;  an  unlimited 
variety  of  paper  stock;  far  wider  variety  of  folding  capabilities;  larger  sheet 
sizes  (17"  X  22"  or  8-page  forms  at  the  normal  SVi"  x  11"  page  size,  or 
23"  X  35"  or  16-page  forms).  The  availability  of  such  paper  sizes  is 
advantageous  because  it  means  shorter  time  on  press  to  run  off  a  job,  and 
press  time  is  a  major  cost  factor  in  printing.  Commercial  printers  also  provide 
much  more  accurate  registration,  better  color  work,  and  certainly  better 
stripping  and  make-ready  (preparation  of  the  press  for  running  the  job  just 
so).  They  will  supply  you  with  a  list  of  trade  customs  that  spell  out  the 
printer's,  as  well  as  the  customer's,  obligations  and  expectations. 


Gravure 

It  is  unlikely  that  you  will  be  using  either  letterpress  or  gravure,  but  it  is 
mentioned  here  for  the  sake  of  completeness.  Gravure  or  intaglio  printing 
works  in  the  opposite  way  from  letterpress.  Instead  of  the  printing  areas 
being  raised  above  the  nonprinting  background,  they  are  cut  or  incised  into 
the  printing  plate  by  engraving  or  by  etching  with  acid.  These  hollows,  then, 
are  filled  with  ink  (the  rest  of  the  plate  being  cleaned  off  with  a  doctor 
blade).  The  paper  to  be  printed  on  is  then  forced  onto  the  plate  under  great 
pressure,  and  the  paper  sucks  the  ink  out  of  the  plate. 

Rotogravure  means  that  the  press  uses  cylinders  to  which  the  plates  are 
attached;  sheet-fed  gravure  is  a  much  slower  flatbed  process  where  the 
paper  moves  through  the  press  one  sheet  at  a  time — and  the  highest  quality 
of  reproduction  can  be  achieved.  Rotogravure  is  faster,  and  many  national 
magazines  and  newspaper  color  supplements  are  produced  in  this  manner. 

Can  you  tell  the  difference  between  offset,  letterpress,  and  gravure? 

Easily:  Examine  a  single  letter  under  a  linen  tester  or  8x-power  loupe.  If  the 
ink  lies  flat  and  smooth  all  over,  it  is  offset.  If  there  is  a  flare  of  ink  around 
the  edges,  resulting  from  the  metal  being  forced  into  the  paper,  it  is 
letterpress.  If  the  edges  of  the  letter  are  zigzag,  then  it  is  gravure. 

Why  should  you  want  to  be  able  to  tell  the  difference?  To  impress  your 
friends  and  confound  your  enemies.  But  watch  out!  There  are  traps  that 
need  to  be  avoided.  Some  new  typesetting  machinery  produces  letters 
electronically  and  builds  each  letter  up  from  tiny  dots.  The  overall  outline  of 
such  letters  can  resemble  gravure  under  the  enlarging  glass,  so  don't  bet 
more  than  you  can  afford  to  lose. 

171 


what  happens  after  printing? 


If  your  publication  is  printed  on  a  single  piece  of  paper  distributed  flat,  then 
nothing  in  the  rest  of  this  chapter  will  interest  you,  and  you  may  as  well  skip 
it.  But  if  that  publication  is  a  bit  more  complex,  then  it  is  essential  to  bear  in 
mind  the  last  series  of  steps  following  the  actual  printing.  They  can  cause 
problems  and  annoying  delays  unless  they  are  understood  and  taken 
into  account. 

The  printer  is  your  best  source  of  advice  and  information  because 
folding,  collating,  binding,  and  finishing  usually  come  under  his  contract — 
whether  the  actual  work  is  subcontracted  to  a  bindery  or  not.  As  in  all  other 
aspects  of  the  print  production  process,  it  is  wise  to  collect  samples  of 
printed  pieces  that  you  think  are  well  done  and  use  them  for  reference  when 
discussing  your  needs  with  your  suppliers.  The  trouble  with  such  samples  is 
that  they  are  probably  beautiful,  flamboyant,  and  unusual  pieces  of  high 
quality  (or  else  you  wouldn't  have  noticed  them,  would  you?).  That's  why  it 
is  wise  to  remember  White's  observation  of  the  facts  of  life:  If  you  like  it, 
it's  too  expensive. 

Paper  has  grain  that  affects  its  proper  utilization 

As  paper  is  made,  the  fibers  of  which  the  pulp  consists  tend  to  turn  parallel 
to  the  direction  of  flow  through  the  machine.  That  is  what  creates  a  grain, 
which  in  turn  affects  the  utilization  of  the  paper  in  two  ways.  First,  folding 
the  paper  with  the  grain  yields  a  smooth  fold,  whereas  folding  it  against  the 
grain  cracks  the  surface  and  creates  a  rough  edge.  Second,  the  grain  makes 
the  paper  stiffer  in  the  direction  of  the  grain;  therefore,  the  grain  should  run 
parallel  with  the  folded  or  binding  edge  of  the  publication  because  that 
helps  the  pages  to  turn  more  easily  and  lie  flat.  If  this  is  the  way  the  piece  is 
planned,  it  is  said  to  be  grain  long. 

How  various  ways  of  folding  the  sheet  can  be  useful 

After  a  sheet  of  paper  has  been  printed  on  both  sides — no  matter  whether 
it  is  a  small  sheet  (of  four  pages)  or  an  enormous  one  (of  64  pages) — it  is  fed 
into  a  folding  machine  that  buckles,  creases,  and  folds  it  into  a  signature  or 
booklet  form.  (The  signature  is  made  of  multiples  of  four  pages.)  It  is  then 
passed  on  for  trimming,  where  three  guillotines  slice  off  excess  paper  from 
the  outside,  head,  and  foot  margins. 

For  stock  that  is  too  heavy  or  too  thick  to  fold  easily,  scoring  is  a 
preliminary  operation  to  folding.  Scoring  creases  the  sheet  wherever  a  fold 
should  fall  and  is  somewhat  tricky,  for  its  purpose  is  to  prevent  the  paper 
from  cracking,  and  therefore  it  must  be  done  right.  It  is  best  done  on  the 
press  rather  than  on  the  folding  machine  because  it  can  be  more  accurately 
controlled.  In  any  case,  though,  it  is  essential  to  emboss,  or  raise  a  bump  in, 
the  paper,  which  should  be  facing  into  the  inside  of  the  fold. 

There  are  two  basic  folds  possible  on  a  machine:  parallel  and  right-angle 


folds.  Here  are  a  few  typical  folder  styles  whose  names  you  might  find  useful. 


Letter  fold  (6  pages)       Accordion  fold  (6  pages)       French  fold  (8  pages)       Two  parallel  folds  (8  pages) 


Accordion  fold  (8  pages) 


One  parallel,  two  right-angle 
folds  (16  pages) 


^   If  a  piece  is  not  folded  in  half,  it  is  called  a  short  fold . 

These  aspects  of  publication  making  are,  admittedly,  rather  dull  for 
people  who  only  need  to  know  about  them  as  a  means  to  an  end.  Once  you 
absorb  the  technicalities  and  can  utilize  their  potential,  they  can  be 
important.  Here  are  a  few  of  these  simple  folds  shown  in  uses  that  could 
give  your  product  some  surprising  effects.* 


Single  foldout  Half-page  foldout  Accordion  foldout  Double  foldout 


Full  horizontal  booklet 


Small  booklet  stitched  Booklet  with  perforated  lap 


If  there  are  a  number  of  signatures  to  be  assembled  in  proper  sequence,  the 
process,  whether  it  be  hand  done  or  machine  produced,  is  called  collating. 


*For  more  on  this  see  Jan  V.  White,  Editing  by  Design,  Second  Edition  (New  York: 
R.  R.  Bowker,  1982),  p.  76. 


Binding 


There  are  seven  basic  methods  of  assembling  pieces  of  paper. 

1.  Simple  folding  to  hold  the  sheets  together  without  recourse  to 
mechanical  means.  Newspapers  are  a  typical  example. 

2.  Stapling,  whether  by  hand  or  machine,  which  is  a  satisfactory 
technique  for  simple  publications  using  typewriter  (or  equivalent) 
typesetting  and  local  reproduction  processes  (in  other  words,  low-circulation, 
low-budget  products).  The  top  left-hand  corner  is  the  usual  position  for  the 
staple — parallel  to  the  left-hand  edge  or  top  edge  or  on  the  diagonal.  If  you 
need  to  attach  more  than  three  pages,  it  might  be  wise  to  explore  the 
possibility  of  printing  the  piece  as  a  four-page  unit,  thus  avoiding 

stapling  altogether. 

3.  Saddle  stitching,  which  entails  driving  staples  through  the  fold  of  the 
backbone  or  spine.  The  number  of  staples  needed  depends  upon  the  number 
of  pages:  the  more  pages,  the  more  staples.  Most  magazines  are  saddle 
stitched  because  it  is  the  cheapest  method  of  holding  the  pages  together, 
and,  more  importantly,  it  allows  the  pages  to  lie  flat  when  the  piece 

is  opened. 

4.  Side-wire  stitching,  which  involves  driving  the  staples  through  the 
face  of  the  stack  of  signatures  Va"  from  the  backbone.  Side-wire  stitching  is 
used  for  heavy-bulk  products  such  as  National  Geographic  Magazine,  for 
instance.  Its  disadvantages:  An  extra-deep  margin  must  be  allowed  at  the 
gutter  for  the  staples,  and  it  is  a  struggle  to  keep  the  pages  open,  especially 
if  the  stock  is  heavy.  Side-wire  stitching  also  requires  separate  covers  to  be 
attached  after  the  signatures  have  been  stitched  together. 

5.  Perfect  binding,  which  holds  the  pages  together  by  means  of  glue 
that  remains  flexible  for  a  long  time.  When  the  signatures  have  been 
collated,  the  spines  are  scraped,  leaving  a  roughened  surface  onto  which 
adhesive  is  applied.  As  in  side-wire  stitching,  a  cover  must  be  attached  to  the 
adhesive  to  make  the  product  look  neatly  finished.  The  advantage  of  perfect 
binding  is  that  pages  lie  flat.  Disadvantage?  The  pages  can  fall  out. 

The  advantage  of  both  side-wire  and  perfect  binding  is  that  both  give  a 
square  back  to  the  publication.  That  allows  for  running  the  name,  volume, 
and  date  on  the  spine.  Furthermore,  a  square  back  gives  the  product  an  aura 
of  value  that  saddle-stitched  publications  lack,  so  the  recipient  is  likely  to  pay 
greater  attention  and  keep  the  piece  for  a  longer  period  of  time,  especially 
if  the  spine  also  lists  the  contents  to  facilitate  reference. 

6.  Smyth  sewing  means  sewing  the  signatures  together  by  means  of 
thread.  This  is  used  for  edition-binding  books  (books  in  hard  covers  with 
end  leaves,  cloth  covering,  etc.;  such  books  are  also  called  case  bound).  The 
advantage  of  Smyth  sewing  is  its  permanence  coupled  with  the  fact  that  the 
pages  can  indeed  lie  flat  in  spite  of  the  thickness  of  the  overall  volume. 
The  disadvantage:  expense. 


7.  Mechanical  binding,  in  which  plastic  or  wire  doohickeys  are  inserted 
through  a  series  of  holes  punched  in  the  binding  edge  of  the  piece.  Used  for 
reports,  notebooks,  and  so  on,  it  offers  the  advantage  that  the  pages  lie  flat. 
Among  its  disadvantages  are  expense,  when  a  large  number  must  be  made; 
the  need  to  have  very  deep  gutter  margins  to  accommodate  the  bindings; 
and  the  difficulty  of  stacking  a  number  of  mechanically  bound  units  in 
neat  stacks. 


Diecutting 


Diecutting  is  an  attention-catching  technique  that  depends  on  its 
unexpectedness  for  effect.  But  you  had  better  know  why  you  are  using 
such  trickery,  and  it  had  better  be  applied  functionally  to  make  a  point  or 
the  expense  may  prove  wasteful.  Funny  physical  shapes  are  no  substitute  for 
the  inner  content  of  a  story.  As  the  poet  says,  "Form  without  substance 
casts  no  shadow." 

Technically,  diecutting  is  simply  cutting  the  paper  into  an  unexpected 
profile  or  punching  a  hole  in  it.  It  is  done  by  attaching  specially  shaped 
knives  (dies)  to  the  appropriate  machinery.  The  dies,  made  of  extremely 
hard,  sharp  steel,  are  either  straight  steel  rules  or  hollow,  like  cookie  cutters. 
Standard  shapes  of  various  kinds  are  available,  but  custom  shapes  can  be 
made  if  you  want  to  invest  the  necessary  fortune.  Small  holes,  such  as  those 
found  in  paper  for  three-ring  binders,  are  not  diecut,  but  drilled. 

Diecutting  holes  acts  on  the  reader's  curiosity.  The  peek-a-boo  or 
keyhole  syndrome  is  hard  to  resist — as  any  ecdysiast  will  readily  aver.  The 
interrelationship  of  graphics  and  meaning,  however,  must  be  intimately 
worked  out — and  not  just  in  the  left-to-right  direction,  which  is  the  one  we 
usually  think  of,  but  backward  too:  the  back  side  of  the  hole  in  relationship 
to  the  page  that  precedes  it,  or  right  to  left. 

Diecutting  the  edges  of  paper  can  be  used  for  two  basically  distinct 
purposes:  to  cut  out  a  shape  that  may  have  meaning  in  and  of  itself,  such  as 
the  outline  of  a  house  pictured  on  a  page  (a  use  commonly  seen  in  greeting 
cards  that  can  easily  be  applied  to  brochures  and  publications);  or  to  cut  a 
geometrical  shape  other  than  the  expected  rectangle  with  a  view  to  its 
subsequent  folding.  Given  such  a  situation,  all  sorts  of  rich  effects  can  be 
achieved  if  one  side  of  the  sheet  is  run  in  one  color  and  the  other  in  another, 
and  the  piece  is  then  folded  to  expose  part  of  each.  Just  take  a  piece  of 
ordinary  typing  paper,  cut  off  one  side  at  an  angle  and  start  folding  it  into 
an  accordion  fold — that's  the  only  way  to  explain  it. 


Perforating 


if  a  page,  or  part  of  a  page,  is  to  be  detachable,  the  perforation  is  done  by 
the  bindery  or  folding  machine.  It  can  also  be  part  of  the  diecutting 
operation.  Trimming  the  piece  can  be  done  before  or  after  the  diecutting, 
depending  on  the  kind  of  machinery  being  used. 


Laminating 


Although  it  is  unlikely  you'll  be  using  this  expensive  process  to  enrich  the 
effect  of  your  cover,  it  is  worthwhile  at  least  knowing  about  its  existence. 
Laminating  consists  of  applying  a  layer  of  clear  plastic  material,  such  as 
mylar,  to  the  outside  of  the  cover.  Lamination  makes  the  colors  sparkle  and 
gives  the  covers  greater  durability. 

A  less  expensive  version  yielding  a  similar  effect  can  be  produced  as  a 
last  step  in  the  printing  process  by  using  a  coat  of  clear  varnish  on  the  last 
pass  through  the  press.  For  special  effect,  the  varnish  can  be  restricted  to  just 
small  areas,  printing  on  the  sheet  the  same  way  that  halftones  do.  In  that 
case,  you  would  refer  to  the  process  as  spot  varnishing. 


Mailing  and  distribution 


Full-paee  size 

Accordion  fold  (fits  a  No.  10  envelope) 


French  fold  self-mailer  (also 
fits  into  a  6"  x  9"  envelope) 


^T 


Accordion  fold  self-mailer 


Self-mailers  and  envelopes 

The  question  of  envelopes  has  already  been  discussed  in  the  chapter  on 
paper  (see  page  1 67).  if  you  use  a  stock  that  is  heavy  enough,  you  may  be 
able  to  dispense  with  the  envelope  altogether  and  send  the  piece  out  as  a 
self-mailer.  The  paper  must  be  stiff  enough  to  resist  scuffing  and  damage,  but 
its  increased  cost  will  surely  be  lower  than  the  cost  of  envelopes  and  stuffing. 
The  postage  will  probably  be  about  the  same,  although  that  could  be  a  point 
critical  enough  to  make  it  worth  checking  with  the  Post  Office. 

It  is  appropriate  to  touch  on  self-mailing  pieces  here  because  their 
success  depends  on  understanding  the  folding  process,  assuming  that  the 
fundamental  point  of  paper  weight  is  understood:  Obviously  you  can't  send 
through  the  mail  a  flimsy,  unprotected  piece  of  paper  that  will  get  damaged 
by  handling.  But  if  the  stock  you  are  using  is  stiff  enough,  then  you  have 
solved  that  part  of  the  problem,  and  all  that  remains  is  to  think  of  what  you 
can  do  to  fold  it  interestingly,  and  how  you  will  seal  it  so  that  it  doesn't 
come  open. 

One  SVi"  x  11"  page  by  itself  is  likely  to  need  an  envelope.  The  regular 
letter  fold  fits  into  a  standard  No.  10  envelope,  and  is  the  simplest,  most 
direct  means  of  sending  out  a  letterlike  piece.  The  four-page  unit,  however, 
allows  for  a  variety  of  folds  and  self-mailers.  Here  are  four  basic  shapes  that 
an  11"  X  17"  page  (i.e.,  two  8V2"  x  11"  pages)  can  produce. 

Sealing 

You  can  seal  the  piece  in  the  following  ways: 

1.  With  a  staple:  cheapest,  but  most  annoying  to  the  recipient  because 
it  results  either  in  torn  paper  (if  the  staple  isn't  removed)  or  torn  fingernails 
(if  it  is).  After  all,  who  has  a  staple  remover  near  the  mailbox? 

2.  With  a  sticky  tab  of  some  sort:  It  could  be  a  gold  seal  or  red 
legal  seal  that  you  can  get  at  a  stationery  store,  glued  on  by  hand,  or  a 
peel-off  seal  made  with  adhesive  on  the  back.  Or  it  can  be  sealed  with  a 
small  paper  tab  by  machine.  Cost  and  visual  effect  are  the  criteria  on  which 
to  base  your  decision. 


INDEX 


AAs  (Author's  Alterations)    56 
Ad, 7" X 10"    3 
Alley    35 
Arrows    117,118 
Art,  camera  ready    147 
Art,  standing    41,133 
Artwork,  commissioned    135 
Ascender    50 

Banner    14 
Baseline    54,59 
Bendays    133 
Bindery    172,174 
Binding,  case    174 

edition    174 

folded    174 

mechanical    175 

perfect    174 

saddle  stitch    174 

side  wire    174 

Smyth  sewn    174 

stapled    174 
Bleed    94 

Bleeds,  butting    156 
Blocking  film     149 
Blues  (proofs)    123 
Blurb    70 

Board,  illustration    149 
Boards  (mechanicals)    147 
Body  copy    57 
Boldface  lead-in    72 
Border  slides    140 
Bowl    59 
Boxes    141 
Breakouts    144 
Brownline  proofs    123 

Caliper    164 
Calligraphers    25 
Callouts    72,144 
Cameraman    127 
Camera  ready  art    147 
Captions    70 
Casting  off    52 
Catch  lines    72 
Changes  in  page    153 
Character  count    45,  53 
Character,  unity  of    66 
Chroma    157,166 
Chromes    120 
Clip  art    138 


Clustering  pictures    104 
Coding  system    153 
Cold  type    3,  29 
Collating    173 
Color    24,108,154,168 
Color,  articulating    155 

background    155 

bars    160 

chroma    157 

contrast    140 

decorative    155 

emphasizing    155 

halftones  in     158 

hue    157 

keys    159 

matched    155 

prints    120,121,122 

process    155 

second    155 

separations  155, 158 

split  fountain    156 

tint    157 

transparencies  and  slides    122 

value    157,166 
Columns    4,  41 
Common  focus    161 
Compositor    123 
Contact  sheets    120 
Continuous  tone    129 
Copyboard    128,161 
Copy  casting    52 
Copyfitting    52,  55 
Copy  paper    45,  53 
Counters    59 
Coverlines    8 
Covers    8 
Cover  stock    163 
Cromalin  proof    161 
Cropping    85,98,99,101 
Cut  (picture)    123,170 
Cut  and  peel  film    107, 150 
Cutlines    70,166 
Cut-off  rules    11 

Decks    62,  70 
Departments    41 
Department  slug    41 
Depth  of  field    74 
Descender    50 
"Design"    135 
Designers    20 
Diecutting    175 


Display    35,65,66,151 
Distribution    167,176 
Doctor  blade    171 
Double  dot  printing    158 
Dropped-out  type    57,109 
Dummies    146,151 
Dummy  sheet    34,149 
Duotones    157,158 
Duping  to  size    161 

Ear,  type  on  its    15 
Editing    30,88,103,104 
Electroplates    170 
Electrostatic  printing    169 
Elite    30,52 
Em  quad    50 
Embellishment    135 
Embossing    172 
Ems    48 
En  quad    50 
Engraver's  scale    126 
Envelopes    167,176 
Executive  typewriter    3 
Extension  drawing    113 

Fifth  cylinder    155 

Fillers    13 

Finiais    59 

First  impression    98 

Flag    14 

Flap    153 

Flop  left  to  right    123 

Focus    33,74,127 

Fold,  short    173 

Folding    172,174 

Foot  of  page    15 

Form    4 

Format,  recognizable    66 

Frontispiece    93 

Galley  proof    56 

Galleys    170 

Ganging  up  pictures    128,130,161 

Ghosting  photographs    83,  108 

Good  ideas  swipe  file    145 

Grain    long    172 

Grain,  paper    172 

Graph  symbols    138 

Graphic  design    8,  9 

Gravure,  roto-    171 

Gravure,  sheet-fed    171 

Grease  pencil    124 


69 


Grid     7 

Cripper  edge    96 
Ground  wood  stock    166 
Cutter,  jumping  the    67 

Halftone  screens    108,129 
Halftones  In  color    158 
Handwriting    138 
Hanging  indents    38 
Hard  copy  printout    56 
Headlines    65,  66,  6! 

bimodal    67 

centered    68 

downstyle    69 

eyebrow    68 

hammer    68 

jump    68 

kicker  68 

running    68 

staggered    68 

Up  and  Down  style    69 

wall  to  wall    68 
Horizon,  alignment  of    101 
Horizontal  modules    12 
Hue    157,166 
Humor    139 
Hyphenation  allowed    64 


Illustration  board    149 
Illustrations,  non-pictorial    144 
Imposition  diagrams    96 
Indents,  hanging    38,  48 
Indicia    15 
Initials    40,144 
Intaglio  printing    171 
Internegatives    121 

Justified  type    3,31,48,62 

Kerning    43,  48,  64 

Keyline    107,133,146,147,152 

Key  plate    157 

Label,  address    15 

Laminating    175 

Layout,  magazine  style    9 

newspaper  st>le    9 
Lead    170 
Leaders    140 
Leading    48,60,61 
Lead-ins,  boldface    72 
Legends    70 
Legs  of  type    71 
Letterhead    2 
Letterpress    170,171 
Ligature    22,  43 
Light  box    161 


Light  table    149 

Line  conversion    132 

Linecut    131,136 

Line  for  line  setting    65 

Line  length    61 

Linework    147 

Linotype    170 

Lists,  numbered    38 

Lithography    170 

Live  matter  rectangle    7,  95 

Logo    14,25 

Lucy    128 

Magazine,  magapaper,  magtab,  XII,  9 
Mailing    167,176 
Makeup,  building-block    11 

tabloid    10 
Makeready    171 
Marking  up  copy    47 
Mask    84,107 
Masthead    14 
Measure    48 
Mechanical  binding    175 
Mechanicals    147,151 
Mezzotints    131 
Middle  tones    131 
Mils    164 

Ntimeographing  169 
Mug  shots    82 

Nameplate    14 
Negatives    113 
Newsletter    XII,  2 
Newsprint    163 
Notches  in  sheet  film    122 
Numbered  lists    38 

Offset    170 

plates    170 

sheet-fed    170 

web    170 
Opener  picture    98 
Outline    107 
Overrun    24 

Page,  changes  in  153 
Page  positioning  161 
Paragraph  indents  35 
Paper    162 

antique    165 

bond    163 

book    163 

brightness    164 

bulking    164 

coated    163 

cover  stock    163 

finishes    165 


grain    172 

laid    165 

newsprint    163 

offset    163,165 

showthrough    164 

substance  weight    163 

text    163 

trim  size    163 

wove    165 
PE  (printer's  error)    56 
Perfect  binding    174 
Photocopying    169 
Photomechanical  variations    130 
Photostats    128 
Picas  and  points    49 
Pica  typewriter    30,  52 
Pictograms    138 
Pictorial  imagery    23 
Pictorial/verbal  blend    10 
Pictures 

clusters  of    104 

cropping  of    85,98,99,101 

dominant    103 

ganged  up    128,130,161 

ghosted    83,108 

negative    113 

opener    98 

pretty  or  awful    93 

scale    100 

scaling  of    124 

sequences  of    103 

sizing  of    124 
Planning  sheets    150 
Planography    170 
Platemaker    124,127,129 
PMT    130,137 
PPI (pages  per  inch)    164 
Precede    70,  93 
Preprinting    24 
Press  pass    24 
Printers    26 
Printout    26 
Print  run    168 
Proofreader's  marks    46,  47 
Proofs,  blues    133 

brownline    123 

cromalin    159 

galley    56 

page    153 

press    159 

progressive    160 

reader's    56 

reproduction    26,  56 

salt    128 

Vandykes    123 

warren  print    128 
Proportioning  wheel    126 


Quad,  em-  and  en-    50 

Rag,  hyphenation  allowed    64 

Rag,  rough    64 

Rag,  tight    64 

Ragged  right    31,  48,  52,  62,  63,  64 

Readout    56 

Ream    163 

Reflection  copy    121,161 

Register  marks    150,152 

Relief  printing    170 

Rescreening     121 

Retouching    83,108 

Reversed  type    57 

Rotogravure    171 

Rough    25,151 

Rubber  stamps    139 

Ruled  lines    152 

Rules    140 

Rules,  cutoff    11 

Sans  serif    58 

Scale  in  pictures    100 

Scaling  pictures    124 

Scalloped  columns    8,  91 

Scheduling    168 

Scoring    172 

Screens,  halftone    108,128 

Screens,  photomechanical    85 

Screens,  shading  tint    132,133 

Sealing    176 

Self-mailer    176 

Separations,  color    155,158 

color  scanner    158 

conventional    158 

direct  screen    158 
Sequences  of  pictures    103 
Serifs    58 
Set  loose    65 
Set  solid    54,60 
Set  tight    65 
Sewing,  Smyth    174 
Shading  tint  screens    132,133 
Sheet  film    122 
Shirttail  picture    93 
Showing  (specimen)    54 
Sidebars    13,141 
Sideheads    37 
Signature    4,96,172 
Silhouette    83,86,107 
Silhouetting,  partial    115 
Size  as  importance    88,  96 
Size  of  image    94 
Sizing  pictures    124 
Slug,  department    41 
Slug,  proof    56 
Small  caps    48 


Space  151 

Spacing    48,  60 

Spacing  out    31 

Specifying  type    47 

Speed  of  communication    135 

Spine    4,174 

Spirit  duplicator    168 

Split  fountain     156 

Spot  varnishing    175 

Spread    3,147 

Square  back    174 

SS  (same  size)    33 

Standing  art    41,133 

Stapling    174 

Stem    59 

Stencil    168,169 

Stencil,  electronic    169 

Stitching,  saddle    174 

Stitching,  side  wire    174 

Stock  photos    136 

Story  components    141 

Stripper    123,  146 

Stripping  in     57,109,129 

Subheads    37 

Substance  weight    163 

Surprinted  type    57, 109 

Swash  letters    48 

Symbolism    112 

Tabloid    XII,  10 

Targets    107 

Text  in  shapes    145 

Text  paper   163 

Tombstoning    68 

Transparencies    120,160 

Trimming    172 

Triotones    158 

Type,  boldness    42,  48 

cold    3,29 

color  variation  in     145 

condensed    44,  48,  55 

contrast    43 

drop  shadow    16 

dropped  out    57 

extended    55 

family    48 

Inkjet    30 

leading    60 

line  for  line    65 

loose    65 

measure    48 

measurement    49 

reversed    57 

set  solid    54 

size    42,  50 

strike-on    29 

stripped  in    57 


surprinted    57 

tight  65,  69 
Typesetters  26 
Typewriter  type    28 

elite    30 

executive    29,  53 

pica    30 

pitch    33 

styles    29 
Typographic  amendment    21 

Unit  (cylinder  on  press)    155 

Value,  color    157,166 
Vandyke  proofs    123 
Varnishing    175 
Varnishing,  spot    175 
Velox   128,130,147 
Verbal  reportage    10 
Video  terminals    7 
Vignetting    109 
Visual  editing    79 

Waist  high    15 
White  space    35,90,140 
Windows    152 
Wrapped  form    4 

X-height    50,  59,  60 
X  marks    107 
Xerographic  prints    145 
Xerography    169 


Mastering  Graphics:  Design  and  production  made  easy 

If  you  are  responsible  for  editing  or  producing  a  publication  for 
internal  or  external  communication,  you  need  a  handy  reference 
tool  that  anticipates  your  problems  and  offers  solutions. 

Mastering  Graphics  supplies  you  with  all  the  information  you 
need  to  know  about . . . 

•  choosing  the  right  format  for  your  publication — whether 
newsletter,  magazine,  magtab,  magapaper,  or  tabloid 

•  how  to  make  your  publication's  name  its  hallmark 

•  using  typography  effectively 

•  how  to  use  color  and  still  stay  within  budget 

You  don't  need  previous  training  or  background  in  design  or 
production  to  get  the  most  from  this  basic,  all  encompassing 
guide.  Mastering  Graphics  uses  480  line  illustrations  and  80 
halftones  to  demonstrate  the  elements,  processes,  and 
terminology  used  in  graphic  design,  typography,  layout,  and 
printing  processes. 

This  step-by-step  guidebook  shows  you  . . . 

•  how  to  prepare  mechanicals  for  printing 

•  how  to  specify  type 

•  where  to  find  illustrations  and  how  to  use  them 

•  all  the  various  uses  of  typewriter  type 

•  how  to  take  better  photographs  and  use  them  more 
imaginatively 

From  selecting  design  to  paper,  printing,  and  binding.  Mastering 
Graphics  tackles  such  problems  as  . . . 

•  cropping  and  scaling  halftones 

•  choosing  paper — whether  heavy  or  light,  stiff  or  floppy, 
rough  or  smooth 

•  deciding  whether  to  print  by  offset,  letterpress,  gravure, 
or  xerography 

•  binding  your  publication — saddle  stitching,  side-wire 
stitching,  or  folding 

•  designing  your  logo 

About  the  Author:  Jan  V.  White,  a  graduate  of  Cornell  and 
Columbia  universities  with  degrees  in  architecture,  has  received 
design  awards  from  the  Society  of  Publication  Designers,  the 
American  Business  Press,  and  other  associations.  He  has  been 
responsible  for  designing  and  redesigning  the  formats  of  well 
over  125  U.S.  and  South  American  magazines,  newsletters,  and 
books.  Widely  known  as  a  lecturer  and  teacher  for  Folio 
Magazine,  Ragan  Report,  National  Composition  Association,  and 
numerous  publishing  groups,  he  is  the  author  of  Editing  by  Design 
and  Designing  for  Magazines,  both  Bowker  publications. 


