EXCHANGE 


k 


J 


:iA\ir  17  1921 


PAPERS 


OF  THE 

PEABODJY  MUSEUM  OF  AMERICAN  ARCHAEOLOGY 
^^Atfb  ETHNOLOGY,  HARVARD  UNIVERSITY 

VoiTlX 


A  MAYA  GRAMMAR 

WITH  BIBLIOGRAPHY  AND  APPRAISEMENT 
OF  THE  WORKS  NOTED 


BY 


ALFRED  M.  TOZZER 


CAMBRIDGE,  MASSACHUSETTS,  U.  S.  A. 

PUBLISHED  BY  THE  MUSEUM 

1921 


PAPERS 

OF  THE 

PEABODY  MUSEUM  OF  AMERICAN  ARCHAEOLOGY 
AND  ETHNOLOGY,  HARVARD  UNIVERSITY 

Vol.  IX 


A  MAYA  GRAMMAR 

WITH  BIBLIOGRAPHY  AND  APPRAISEMENT 
OF  THE  WORKS  NOTED 


BY 

ALFRED  M.  TOZZER 


CAMBRIDGE,  MASSACHUSETTS,  U.  S.  A. 
PUBLISHED  BY  THE  MUSEUM 

1921 


s4v 


COPYRIGHT,  19£1 

BY  THE  PEABODY  MUSEUM  OF  AMERICAN  ARCHAEOLOGY 

AND  ETHNOLOGY.  HARVARD  UNIVERSITY 


ANTHROPOLOGY  LIBRARY 

KXCM^Nae 


E 

y 

V, 

A  Hi 
u 


TO  THE  MEMORY  OF 
CHARLES  P.  BOWDITCH 

1842-1921 

THAT  GREATEST  OF  ALL  FRIENDS  OF  MAYA  RESEARCH 

THROUGH  WHOSE  INITIATIVE 

AND  AID  THIS  VOLUME  HAS  BEEN  MADE  POSSIBLE 


PREFACE 

As  the  first  recipient  of  the  Travelling  Fellowship  in  American 
Archaeology  of  the  Archaeological  Institute  of  America,  I  spent 
the  winters  of  the  years  1901-1902  to  1904-1905  in  Yucatan,  Chia- 
pas, and  Tabasco,  Mexico,  and  northern  Guatemala.1 

A  report  on  the  ethnological  work  of  this  Fellowship  was  pub- 
lished as  a  special  paper  of  the  Archaeological  Institute  of  Amer- 
ica, "A  Comparative  Study  of  the  Mayas  and  Lacandones," 
(New  York,  1907,  xx,  195  p.,  xxix  plates).  In  that  report  (p.  v)  a 
promise  was  made  that  the  linguistic  part  of  the  work  undertaken 
under  the  Fellowship  would  be  published  later.  The  long-delayed 
fulfillment  of  this  promise  is  the  present  study  of  the  Maya  lan- 
guage. The  permission  of  the  Archaeological  Institute,  through  its 
President,  has  kindly  been  given  to  have  this  work  published  by 
the  Peabody  Museum. 

I  can  do  no  better  than  repeat  what  I  said  in  1907  regarding  my 
obligations.  "I  desire  at  this  time  to  express  my  appreciation  and 
thanks  to  the  three  original  members  of  the  Committee  on  Ameri- 
can Archaeology,  Mr.  Charles  P.  Bowditch,  Chairman,  Professor 
F.  W.  Putnam,  and  Professor  Franz  Boas.  To  Mr.  Bowditch, 
through  whose  initiative  and  aid  the  Travelling  Fellowship  in 
American  Archaeology  was  founded,  and  to  Professor  Putnam,2 
both  of  whom  have  given  unsparingly  of  their  time  in  advice  and 
counsel  both  before  and  during  the  four  years  of  the  Fellowship, 
and  to  Dr.  Boas,  who  has  been  of  great  aid  in  his  advice  on  the 
linguistic  side  of  the  work,  I  am  deeply  grateful." 

These  obligations  are  quite  as  heavy  today  as  they  were  in  1907. 
Dr.  Boas  has  continued  to  give  me  valuable  aid  and  it  is  owing  to 
the  never-ending  interest  and  generosity  of  Mr.  Charles  P.  Bow- 

1  For  brief  reports  of  the  work  of  the  Fellowship,  see  American  Journal  of 
Archaeology,  2d  series,  supplement,  v.  6  (1902),  p.  2-4;  v.  7  (1903),  p.  45-49;  v. 
8  (1904),  p.  54-56;  v.  9  (1905),  p.  45-47. 

2  Professor  Putnam  has  died  since  this  paragraph  was  first  written.  His 
death  took  place  on  August  14,  1915. 


vi  PREFACE 

ditch  that  the  Peabody  Museum  has  been  able  to  bring  this  study 
out  as  a  Paper  of  the  Museum.- 

I  also  wish  at  this  time  to  thank  some  of  my  many  friends  in 
Yucatan  who  aided  me  throughout  the  time  I  was  there.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Edward  H.  Thompson  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  James  of 
Merida  gave  me  abundantly  of  their  generous  hospitality.  I  have 
spoken  in  another  place  of  my  obligations  to  the  late  Sefior  Don 
Audomaro  Molina  and  to  Sefior  Don  Juan  Martinez  Hernandez. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Preface v 

PART  I.  —  A  MAYA  GRAMMAR 

Introduction  .    .   ,. 3 

Maya  stock 3 

Location 3 

Dialects 4 

Maya  dialect 5 

Location 5 

Hieroglyphic  writing 6 

Written  Maya 6 

Early  grammars  on  Latin  model 7 

Grammars  of  Coronel,  San  Buenaventura,  and  Beltran     ....  9 

Maya  of  present  time 14 

Modern  Maya  grammars  of  Ruz,  Seler,  Palma  y  Palma,  Lopez,  etc.  15 

Provenance  of  material  discussed 16 

Phonetics 17 

General  character 17 

Consonants '. 18 

Vowels  . 19 

Doubled  vowels 20 

Notation • 20 

Alphabets  used  by  various  authorities 21 

Phonetic  changes 23 

Syncope,  Synalephe  and  Apocope 23 

Vocalic  harmony 26 

Avoidance  of  hiatus 26 

Semi-vowels 26 

Lacandone  dialect 27 

Character  of  stem 27 

Accent : 27 

Grammatical  processes 28 

Enumeration .  28 

Word  composition 28 

Affixes 28 

Reduplication 29 

Word  order 29 

vii 


viii  CONTENTS 

Ideas  expressed  by  the  grammatical  processes 29 

Word  composition 29 

Habitual  action  expressed  by  verb  and  object 29 

Agent 29 

Gender  of  animals 29 

Indefinite  time  in  the  future 29 

Action  just  completed 30 

Optative 30 

Suffix 30 

Plurality  in  most  nouns  and  some  adjectives,  -ob 30 

Plurality  in  2d  person,  nominal  pronoun,  -es 30 

Plurality  in  some  adjectives,  -ak 30 

Plurality  in  some  nouns,  -al 30 

Exclusion  in  dual  and  plural,  -on  and  -on-es 30 

Inclusion  in  plural,  -e§ 30 

Verbal  pronoun  as  subject  or  object 30 

Demonstrative  pronoun,  -a,  -o,  -u,  with  prefix  le 30 

Reflexive  pronoun,  -ba 30 

Abstract  nouns,  -il 31 

Collective  nouns,  -il 31 

Attributive  relationship, -il .    .    .  31 

Gentilitious  relationship,  -il 31 

Habituality,  -tal 31 

Comparative  degree,  il 31 

Present  time,  transitive  verb,  -ik 31 

Present  time,  intransitive  verb  of  motion,  -kah 31 

Future  time,  intransitive  and  transitive  verbs,  -e 31 

Future  time,  Class  IV  verbs,  -t§al  or  -tal 31 

Indefinite  future,  intransitive  verbs,  -ak  and  prefix  bin 31 

Past  time,  intransitive  and  transitive  verbs,  Classes,  II,  III,  IV, 

ah  or  h 31 

Distant  past,  transitive  verbs,  m-ah      31 

Causal  verbs  (Class  lb),  -s 31 

Verbs  of  agent  (Class  IHb),  -t 32 

Effect  of  action  of  verb  on  subject,  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul 32 

Passive  relationship,  past  time,  -b  or  -n 32 

Imperative,  intransitive,  -en,  transitive,  -e 32 

Inchoative  or  inceptive  verbs  and  those  of  Class  II,  -tal  or  -hal  .  32 

Reflexive  verbs,  -pahal 32 

Adverbial  ideas,  -il    .    .    . 32 

Manner  of  action,  prefix  be-,  suffix,  -il  and  demonstrative    ...  32 

Numeral  classifiers 32 

Prefix 32 

Gender  of  the  "  Nomen  actoris,"  H-  and  §- 32 

Time  attached  to  nominal  pronoun,  tan-,  t-,  and  he- 32 

Time  particle  with  intransitive  verb  in  past,  t- 32 

Nominal  pronoun,  subject  of  verb  or  possessive 33 


CONTENTS  ix 

Ideas  expressed  by  grammatical  processes  (continued). 

Prefix  (continued). 

Semi-vowels  used  with  nominal  pronoun  with  vowel  stems  ...  33 

Demonstrative,  le- 33 

Relative  relationship,  lik-  or  likil- 33 

Adverbial  relationship  such  as  ideas  representing  repetition,  total- 
ity, etc "  .    .    .    .  33 

Manner  or  state,  be-  with  suffix  -il  and  demonstrative  pronouns  .  33 

Direction  of  motion 33 

Negative,  ma- 33 

Prepositions    ...        33 

Reduplication 33 

Distant  past  in  intransitive  verb 33 

Iterative  or  frequentative  verb 33 

Plural  with  some  adjectives 33 

Plural  with  some  participles 34 

Diminutive 34 

Word  order 34 

Syntax 34 

Noun 34 

Fundamental  place  in  language 34 

Incorporation  in  verb 35 

Incorporation  to  express  agent 36 

Classification  .» 36 

Abstract  nouns 36 

Collective  nouns            36 

Gender 36 

Number 37 

Case 37 

Attributive  relationship 38 

Gentilitious  relationship 38 

Habituality 38 

Diminutives 38 

Pronoun 38 

Forms  of  the  pronoun;  nominal  and  verbal 39 

Distinctive  features 39 

Number 40 

Persons  expressed  .....               40 

Pronoun  with  vowel  stems 41 

Verbal  pronoun,  when  used 42 

Nominal  pronoun,  when  used 43 

Time  particles 43 

Contraction  of  time  particles 43 

Present  time,  tan 44 

Potential  mood,  k-  or  ki- 46 

Future  time,  he- 46 


x  CONTENTS 

Syntax  (continued). 
Pronoun  (continued). 

Time  particles  (continued). 

Past  time,  t- 47 

Action  just  completed,  o'ok 47 

Case 48 

Subjective 48 

Objective 48 

Possessive  pronoun 49 

Natural  possession,  -il 49 

Demonstrative  pronoun,  le-  -a,  le-  -o, le-  -e 50 

te-la,  te-lo,  te-le 50 

Reflexive  pronoun,  -ba 50 

Reciprocal  pronoun,  tan-ba 51 

Interrogative  pronouns 51 

Verb 51 

Classification 51 

Class  I,  Action  or  state,  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul 52 

a,  Pure  action  or  state 53 

b,  Causal,  s 53 

Root  in  be 53 

Class  II,  Verbs  in  -tal,  "  endowed  with," 54 

Class  III,  Neuter  stems      55 

a,  Stem  alone 56 

b,  Agent,  t      56 

Roots  in  kin  and  kun 57 

Verbs  in  -ankil 58 

Class  IV,  Auxiliary  "  to  be  " 58 

Verb  yan 59 

Class  V,  Irregular  and  defective  verbs 60 

Bin-el,  to  go 60 

Tal-el,  to  come 60 

Qat,  desire 60 

P'ek,  dislike 61 

Tak,  desire 61 

Qabet,  necessary 61 

Suk,  accustom 62 

Pat,  ability 62 

Nama,  obligation 62 

Tuub,  to  forget 62 

Qaah,  to  remember 63 

T§ik-pahal,  to  appear 63 

Ut§ul,  to  succeed,  to  happen 63 

Verbs  with  stems  in  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul 63 

Intransitive  verb 64 

Transitive  verb 64 

Transitive  to  intransitive  form 65 

Intransitive  to  transitive  form 66 


CONTENTS  •  xi 

Syntax  (continued). 
Verb  (continued). 

Tense 66 

Intransitive  verb      68 

Present  time 68 

tan  and  the  nominal  pronoun 68 

ka  or  kah  with  verbs  of  motion 68 

Future  time 70 

he  and  the  nominal  pronoun 70 

Indefinite  future,  bin-  -ak 70 

Verbs  of  Class  IV .  71 

Past  time    . 71 

Class  I,  shortened  stem  and  verbal  pronoun 71 

Class  II,  -ah  and  the  verbal  pronoun 72 

Class  III,  n-ah  and  the  verbal  pronoun 73 

Distant  past  in  -n-ah-ah  and  the  verbal  pronoun   .  74 

Class  IV,  -h  and  the  verbal  pronoun 74 

Perfect  tense  with  o'ok  and  the  nominal  pronoun     .    .  75 

Transitive  verb 75 

Present  time,  -ik 75 

Future  time,  -ik  and  final  -e 76 

Indefinite  future,  bin  and  final  -e 76 

Past  time,  -ah 78 

Action  just  completed,  o'ok  and  the  nominal  pronoun  79 

-ki  with  idea  of  "  since  "  or  "  after  " 79 

Distant  past,  m-ah      79 

Modes .  80 

Indicative 80 

Subjunctive 80 

Potential 81 

Imperative 81 

Intransitive,  -en  and  the  shortened  stem 81 

Transitive,  -e 83 

Optative,  qat  and  the  future  stem 84 

Passive 84 

Present  time 84 

Class  I,  Causal  s  and  suffix  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul 84 

Class  Ilia,  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul 85 

Class  Illb,  agent  t  and  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul 85 

Future  time 86 

Present  passive  stem  and  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul 86 

Present  passive  stem  with  bin  and  suffix,  ak 86 

Past  time 87 

-ah-b  or  -ah-n  with  verbal  pronoun 87 

Distant  past,  -ah-ah-n 87 

Verbal  nouns 87 

Past  participle,  -an 88 


xii  CONTENTS 

Syntax  (continued). 
Verb  (continued). 

Verbal  nouns  (continued). 

Passive  participle,  -bal,  -bil 89 

Infinitive 89 

After  verbs  denoting  purpose,  desire,  ability,  etc 89 

Inchoative  or  Inceptive  verbs,  -hal  or  -tal 90 

Iterative  or  Frequentative  verbs   ..    .  . 91 


Reflexive  verbs  .    .   . . 

Reciprocal  verbs    . 
Clauses    .    .    .    .  ..  .. 

Purpose  or  motive, 


91 

92 

92 

future  construction 92 

Ability,  knowledge,  desire,  fear,  etc 92 

Use  of  ka  with  future  in -ak    .    .    . 92 

Relative  clauses 93 

Relative  relation  with  lik  or  likil 93 

Temporal  clauses,  introduced  by  ka 93 

Conditional,  introduced  by  wa  or  kes 93 

Interrogative 94 

Withwa    . 94 

Sign  of  past  omitted 94 

When  answer  is  in  the  negative 94 

Questions  asking  permission 94 

Adjective 95 

Order 95 

Number,  -ak,  -tak,  -lak 95 

Reduplication 96 

Comparison 96 

Comparative,  -il 96 

Superlative,  huts      96 

Diminutive 97 

Numerals 97 

Terms  given  by  the  early  Spaniards 97 

Terms  used  in  the  hieroglyphic  writing 97 

Terms  used  at  present  time 98 

Beltran's  numeration 100 

Numeral  classifiers  . 103 

Adverb 104 

Position 104 

Use  of  -il  or  -ik  with  verbal  pronoun  and  adverbs 104 

Negation,  ma     . 104 

Repetition,  ka    .    . 105 

Totality,  la 105 

Manner  or  state,  be 106 

Demonstrative 106 

Prepositions  and  postpositions 107 


CONTENTS  xiii 

PART  II  — MAYA  TEXTS 

Introduction Ill 

Material  available Ill 

Grammatical  structure Ill 

Lexicography 112 

Orthography 113 

Chirography 114 

Possibility  of  translation 114 

Indians  of  Chan  Santa  Cruz  (1900) 115 

Lacandone  chant  (1902) 118 

Maya  witch  story  (1866)      .    .  119 

Prophecy  of  Chilam  Balam,  Versions  from  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Chu- 

mayel  and  de  Tizimin  and  from  Lizana 120 

Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel.     Passage,  p.  77,  78 130 

PART  III  — AN  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 
RELATING  TO  THE  MAYA  LANGUAGE 

Introduction 139 

History  of  Maya  linguistic  research 139 

Writers  of  the  xvi,  xvn,  xvm  centuries 139 

Villalpando , 140 

Landa      141 

Solana      141 

Xiu,  Aguilar,  Mena 141 

Coronel,  San  Buenaventura,  Beltran  de  Santa  Rosa,  etc.      ...  142 

Avendafio 142 

Joaquin  Ruz 142 

Pio  Perez 143 

Fletcher,  Henderson,  Kingdon      145 

Brasseur  de  Bourbourg 146 

Carl  Hermann  Berendt 146 

Carrillo  y  Ancona 147 

Daniel  Garrison  Brinton 148 

William  Gates 148 

Juan  Martinez  Hernandez 149 

Bibliographies 150 

Bibliography  of  bibliographies 150 

Missing  Authorities 150 

xvi  century 151 

xvn  century 152 

xvm  century 153 


xiv  CONTENTS 

Bibliographies  (continued). 

xix  century 1521 

Early  history  and  early  bibliography 153 

General  and  American  bibliography 154 

American  linguistics 155 

Middle  America.     General  works 155 

Middle  America.     Linguistics 156 

Central  America.     General  works 156 

Central  America.     Linguistics 156 

Yucatan.     General  works 157 

Yucatan.     Maya  linguistics 157 

Biographical  works      157 

Sale  catalogues 158 

Periodicals 158 

Classification  of  languages 158 

General      158 

Middle  America 159 

Affinities      160 

With  European  languages 160 

With  Oceanic  and  Asiatic  languages 160 

With  South  American  languages 161 

With  Antillian  languages 161 

Description  of  language 161 

Grammars 162 

xvi  century 162 

xvn  century  * 163 

xviii  century 164 

xix  century,  etc 165 

Special  features 167 

Comparative  grammar 167 

Maya  stock 167 

Maya  stock  and  Mexican  languages 168 

Maya  stock  and  North  American  languages 168 

Maya  stock  and  South  American  languages 168 

Phonetics 168 

Vocabularies 169 

xvi  century 169 

xvn  century 172 

xviii  century 174 

xix  century  etc 174 

Day  and  month  names 177 

Comparative  vocabularies      178 

Maya-Quiche  and  other  Maya  dialects 178 

Maya  and  Mexican  languages 178 

Maya  and  North  American  languages 179 


CONTENTS  xv 

Vocabularies  (continued). 

Comparative  vocabularies  (continued). 

Maya,  South  American  languages,  etc 179 

Maya  and  Old  World  languages 179 

Special  words      180 

Etymology  of  proper  names • 180 

Yucatan 180 

Maya m 180 

Miscellaneous 180 

Numeration 181 

Maya  dialect 181 

Comparative  numeration 181 

Texts 182 

Books  of  Chilam  Balam 182 

General 182 

Mani 184 

Perez  Codex 184 

(Perez,  Cronologia  antigua  de  Yucatan) 186 

Chumayel 187 

Tizimin    .    .    . 189 

Calkini 190 

Ixil 190 

Oxkutzcab 190 

Kaua 190 

Nah 191 

Tekax 191 

Peto 191 

Nabula 191 

Tihosuco 191 

Tixcocob 191 

Hocaba 191 

The  Prophecies '. 192 

Medical  Books 195 

Libros  del  Judio 195 

Ritual  of  the  Bacabs 196 

The  Catechism 196 

xvi  century        196 

xvn  century 196 

xvin  century 197 

xix  century       197 

Los  Sacramentos , 197 

ElViatico 198 

Via  Sacra 198 

Acto  de  Contrici6n 198 

Confesi6n 198 

ActosdeFe* 198 


xvi  CONTENTS 

Texts  (continued). 

The  Catechism  (continued). 

The  Mass 198 

Trinitate  Dei 198 

Lord's  prayer 199 

The  Bible 199 

St.  Luke,  etc 199 

St.  John 200 

St.  Matthew  and  St.  Mark 200 

Sermons 200 

xvi  century 201 

xvn  century 201 

xviii  century 201 

xix  century 202 

Secular  Texts 202 

Cr6nica  de  Chicxulub  (Pech  MS.)      202 

Legal  documents 203 

Xiu  chronicles 203 

Titulos  de  Ebtun 204 

Libro  de  Cacalchen 204 

Cr6nica  de  Mani 205 

Documentos  de  Sotuta 205 

Documentos  de  Ticul      205 

Titulo  de  Acanceh 205 

Papeles  de  Xtepen 205 

Political  papers 205 

Poems,  songs,  folk-lore,  etc 206 

Lacandone  texts 207 

PART  IV  —  A  BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  WORKS  RELATING  TO 
THE  MAYA  LANGUAGE 

Introduction 211 

Bibliography 213 

APPENDICES 

I,  Paradigms  of  verb  classification 283 

II,  Paradigms  from  Beltran,  San  Buenaventura,  Coronel,  Lopez,  and 

Tozzer 286 

III,  List  of  numeral  classifiers 290 

IV,  Comparative  vocabularies  from  Peto,  Sotuta,  Tizimin,  and  Vallado- 

lid  with  corresponding  terms  from  the  Motul,  San  Francisco, 

and  Ticul  dictionaries 293 

Introduction 293 

Vocabularies 295 

Numeration 301 


PART  I 
GRAMMAR 


»    PART  I 
GRAMMAR 

INTRODUCTION 

Maya  Stock.  Location.  The  Maya  linguistic  stock  stands  with 
Nahuatl  as  the  two  most  important  languages  of  Middle  America. 
With  the  exception  of  the  Huastecan  region,  north  of  Vera  Cruz  on 
the  Panuco  River,  the  territory  occupied  by  the  Maya  speaking 
peoples  is  practically  continuous,  including  the  greater  part  of  the 
two  southernmost  states  of  Mexico,  Chiapas  and  Tabasco,  the 
peninsula  of  Yucatan  which  is  composed  of  the  Mexican  states  of 
Yucatan  and  Campeche,  the  Mexican  territory  of  Quintana  Roo, 
and  British  Honduras,  Guatemala,  and  the  northern  part  of  Hon- 
duras. The  Maya  territory  in  Guatemala  is  broken  up  by  islands 
of  Nahuatl  speaking  people  and  by  a  few  independent  stocks  such 
as  Xinca. 

The  geographical  unity  of  the  Maya  speaking  peoples  is  remark- 
able when  one  takes  into  consideration  the  colonies  of  Nahuatl 
speaking  peoples  scattered  along  the  Pacific  coast  of  Central  Amer- 
ica even  as  far  south  as  the  Isthmus  of  Panama.  The  Mayas  seem 
to  have  been  content  to  remain  very  much  in  one  place  and  it  is 
evident  that  it  was  not  their  general  custom  to  send  out  colonies 
to  distant  parts  of  the  country.  Moreover  the  wandering  of  the 
Mayas  among  themselves  in  the  comparatively  small  territory  oc- 
cupied by  them  is  not  shown  by  investigation  to  have  been  great. 

Most  of  the  dialects  of  the  Maya  seem  to  have  been  identified 
with  certain  localities  from  the  time  of  the  earliest  Spanish  records 
down  to  the  present.  There  does  not  seem  to  have  been  that 
shifting  of  population  which  one  might  naturally  expect.  The 
geographical  conditions  may  have  had  something  to  do  with  this 
seeming  lack  of  mingling  of  the  people  of  one  dialect  with  those  of 
another.  The  peninsula  of  Yucatan  is  comparatively  isolated  from 
the  rest  of  the  Maya  territory  and  the  dialect  spoken  there  is  very 


4  GRAMMAR 

little  changed  as  far  as  can  be  made  out  from  the  earliest  times  of 
which  we  have  records.  The  various  mountain  ranges  in  the  south 
often  render  communication  difficult  and  a  mountain  system  often 
separates  distinct  linguistic  differences  as  regards  dialects  of  the 
Maya.  Geography  cannot,  however,  in  all  cases  explain  the  free- 
dom of  mixture  of  two  dialects  occupying  neighboring  territory. 

Spanish  speaking  people  are  found  in  almost  all  parts  of  the 
country  occupied  by  the  Mayas  and  their  influence  has,  of  course, 
been  very  great  in  changing  the  native  dialects.  The  Indians  in 
most  cases  have  picked  up  enough  Spanish  to  make  themselves  in- 
telligible in  all  parts  of  the  country.  When  intercourse  is  to  be 
carried  on  between  the  people  speaking  two  different  dialects  of 
Maya,  Spanish  is  usually  the  medium.  This  may  explain  in  part 
the  distinct  dialectic  areas  still  to  be  made  out. 

The  Maya  stock  has  no  affiliation  as  far  as  can  be  made  out  with 
any  other  language  of  Mexico  or  Central  America.  Some  authori- 
ties claim  that  the  Zapotec  is  nearer  akin  to  Maya  than  it  is  to 
Nahuatl.   Maya  is  morphologically  distinct  from  the  latter. 

Dialects.  The  Maya  stock  has  a  large  number  of  dialects  which 
may  be  divided  according  to  their  structure  into  a  certain  number 
of  groups.  Stoll's  classification  (1884)  is  the  most  satisfactory  one 
and  it  has  been  followed  in  the  main  here.1  The  different  divisions 
are  as  follows : 

1.  Maya  group  proper  including  the  Maya  of  Yucatan,  the  Itza 
or  Peten,  the  Lacandone  and  possibly  the  Mopan  dialects. 

2.  Tzental  or  Tzeltal  group  including  the  Tzental,  Chontal  of 
Tabasco,  Tzotzil,  Chanabal,  and  Choi  (Cholti  and  Chorti)  dialects.2 

3.  Mam  group  including  the  Mam,  Ixil,  and  Aguacateca  dia- 
lects.3 

4.  Quiche  group  including  the  Quiche,  Cakchiquel,  Tzutuhil, 
and  Uspanteca  dialects. 

5.  Pokom  or  Pokonchi  group  including  the  Kekchi,  Pokoman 
and  Pokonchi  dialects. 

1  For  other  classifications,  see  p.  158-160. 

2  Sapper  (1897,  p.  393)  makes  a  Choi  group  including  Chontal,  Chorti,  and 
Choi.  Gates  (1920,  p.  606)  also  makes  a  separate  group  of  Cholti  and 
Chorti. 

3  Gates  (1920,  p.  606)  also  includes  in  this  group  Solomeca,  Jacalteca, 
Chuje,  Chicomucelteca,  and  Motozintleca. 


INTRODUCTION  5 

6.  Huasteca.1 

A  further  classification  can  be  made  based  on  the  use  of  the  pro- 
noun. In  the  Maya,  Tzeltal  and  Mam  groups  the  verbal  pronoun 
is  a  suffix:  in  the  Quiche  and  Pokom  groups  this  pronoun  is  a 
prefix.2 

The  relative  antiquity  of  the  various  dialects  is  a  subject  which 
has  not  received  much  study.  The  great  length  of  time  necessary 
for  the  development  of  these  dialects  from  a  mother-tongue  must 
be  taken  into  consideration  not  only  from  a  linguistic  but  also 
from  an  archaeological  point  of  view.3 

Maya  Dialect.  Location.  The  language  treated  in  this  paper  is 
the  Maya  dialect  of  the  Maya  linguistic  stock.4  This  dialect  is 
spoken  by  the  natives  of  the  entire  peninsula  of  Yucatan,  a  larger 
territory  than  that  occupied  by  any  of  the  other  dialects.  This 
idiom  is  commonly  regarded  as  the  purest  of  all  the  Maya  dialects 
owing  to  the  isolation  of  Yucatan.5  The  language  may  show  a  cer- 
tain pureness  and  stability  lacking  in  other  places  where  the  Maya 
stock  is  spoken  but  there  is  little  reason  to  suppose  that  the  Maya 
dialect  is  the  most  primitive  and  that  it  was  from  a  language  such 
as  is  spoken  in  Yucatan  that  all  the  other  Maya  dialects  have 
sprung.  Investigations  have  not  gone  far  enough  into  the  com- 
parative morphology  of  the  Maya  for  us  to  ascribe  with  certainty 
a  primordial  character  to  any  of  the  various  dialects.    It  is  com- 

1  Sapper  (1905,  p.  9)  has  the  Chicomucelteca  of  southeastern  Chiapas  as  a 
dialect  of  the  Huasteca.  He  also  gives  here  the  approximate  number  speak- 
ing the  various  dialects. 

2  Compare  Seler,  1887.  The  page  references  throughout  this  paper  to  this 
work  of  Seler  apply  to  the  2d  edition,  published  in  v.  1  of  his  collected  works. 

3  Stoll  (1884,  p.  157)  estimates  the  period  of  2000  years  as  the  shortest 
time  required  to  explain  the  difference  between  Maya  and  Cakchiquel. 

4  Henceforth  when  speaking  of  the  Maya,  the  dialect  alone  will  be  under- 
stood unless  the  term  Maya  stock  is  employed. 

6  Berendt  (1878,  p.  7)  writes  in  this  connection,  "  The  Maya  language 
proper  (Mayathan)  is  spoken  through  the  whole  peninsula  of  Yucatan,  the 
ancient  name  of  which  was  Maya.  It  is  the  purest  and,  at  present,  the  most 
highly  developed  of  all  the  languages  of  the  family,  and  is  used  not  only  by 
the  Indians,  but  also  by  the  greater  part  of  the  white  and  mestizo  population; 
in  the  interior  of  Yucatan  1  have  met  with  white  families  who  do  not  under- 
stand one  word  of  Spanish.  The  Maya  language  is  likewise  generally  used  in 
writing  and  in  printing  books  of  instruction  and  devotion." 


6  GRAMMAR 

monly  supposed,  however,  that  Huasteca  shows  evidences    of 
greatest  age  with  Mam  second  in  point  of  time. 

No  attempt  will  be  made  in  this  study  to  treat  the  comparative 
aspects  of  the  Maya  dialect  with  other  dialects  of  this  stock.1 

Hieroglyphic  Writing.  In  the  treatment  of  the  Maya  language  I 
shall  omit  completely  any  discussion  of  the  phonetic  character  of 
the  Maya  hieroglyphics.  There  is  reason  to  suppose  that  there  is  a 
number  of  distinct  symbols  in  the  hieroglyphic  writing  of  Central 
America  which  denote  certain  phonetic  characters  of  the  Maya 
speech.2  For  the  purpose  of  this  paper,  however,  the  Maya  will  be 
regarded  as  a  language  unrecorded  up  to  the  time  of  the  Conquest. 

A  complete  elucidation  of  the  hieroglyphic  inscriptions  will  prob- 
ably be  impossible  until  an  advance  has  been  made  in  our  ac- 
quaintance with  the  phonetic  elements  in  the  composition  of  the 
glyphs.  Within  recent  years  our  knowledge  in  this  respect  has  not 
advanced  at  all  in  comparison  with  the  gains  made  in  deciphering 
the  numerical  parts  of  the  hieroglyphic  writing.  A  successful  cor- 
relation of  the  Maya  language  and  the  Maya  hieroglyphs  holds 
out  a  prospect  of  the  greatest  interest  and  importance  from  the 
point  of  view  of  Maya  research.3 

Written  Maya.  The  Spaniards  found  the  natives  speaking  the 
Maya  language.  Their  missionaries  throughout  New  Spain  easily 
recognized  the  impossibility  of  accomplishing  any  work  in  christian- 
izing, the  people  without  first  learning  the  native  languages.  This 
they  set  about  doing  in  every  case  and  many  of  the  Spanish  Padres 
became  proficient  in  the  languages  of  the  conquered  peoples.4 

1  Seler  (1887)  has  successfully  attempted  this.  See  also  the  works  of 
Charencey. 

2  See  Bowditch,  1910,  p.  254-258  for  a  discussion  of  this  point. 

3  It  is  needless  to  comment  here  on  the  "Landa  Alphabet"  and  its  failure 
to  produce  the  results  hoped  for. 

4  Zavala  (1896,  p.  iv,  v)  gives  the  following  quotations  from  the  records 
of  the  Third  Mexican  Council  which  considered  affairs  relating  to  Yucatan. 
I  give  these  verbatim  as  quoted  by  Zavala  although  the  Latin  is  incorrect  in 
several  places.  "  Clericos  in  regionibus  Indorum  beneficia  cum  onere  obtinentes 
in  materna  erumden  regionum  lingua  examinent,  Episcopi,  et  quos  repererint 
linguoe  hujusmodi  ignaros,  sex  mensium  spatio  prefinito,  ad  discendam  linguam 
compellant,  admonentes  eos,  quatemus  elapso  termino,  si  linguan  hujusmodi  non 
didiscerint,  beneficium  quod  obtinent,  ipso  facto,  vacabit,  et  alteri  de  eo  fiet  pro- 


INTRODUCTION  7 

One  of  the  first  acts  was  to  record  the  native  languages  phoneti- 
cally as  nearly  as  they  could  with  the  Spanish  characters  at  their 
command.  It  was  impossible  to  write  down  many  of  the  sounds 
occurring  in  the  different  native  dialects  with  the  Spanish  letters 
and,  in  some  cases,  arbitrary  signs  or  marks  were  adopted  to  desig- 
nate these  sounds  as,  in  the  Maya,  the  inverted  c  (o)  was  early 
used  as  the  sign  for  a  ts  sound  frequent  in  the  language. 

The  natives  soon  learned  to  write  their  own  languages,  which 
hitherto  had  been  unrecorded,  by  using  the  same  Spanish  char- 
acters and  the  signs  adopted  by  the  Spaniards.  To  their  ability  in 
this  line  we  owe  many  valuable  documents  connected  with  the 
native  culture  of  the  country,  manuscripts  written  in  the  native 
language  but  with  Spanish  characters.1 

Early  grammars  on  Latin  model.  The  Spanish  priests  did  not 
stop  with  translations  of  documents  into  the  native  languages  but 
they  wrote  grammars  and  collected  vocabularies  as  well.  These 
grammars  and  dictionaries  exist  in  great  numbers.  There  is  hardly 
a  dialect  spoken  in  Mexico  or  Central  America  that  has  not  some 
sort  of  a  grammar  dealing  with  the  structure  of  the  language.  The 
difficulty  met  with  in  using  these  grammars  written  by  the  Spanish 
is  the  same  as  that  found  wherever  a  primitive  language  has  been 
studied  and  recorded  along  the  lines  and  with  the  corresponding 
forms  found  in  Spanish,  Latin,  or  some  other  Indo-European  gram- 
mar. The  Spanish  priest  thought  he  had  successfully  written  a 
grammar  of  a  native  language  if  he  had  found  forms  in  that  lan- 

visio.  .  .  .  In  quo,  et  in  Regula  decima  octava  Cancellarice  Apostolicce  contientice 
Episcoporum  onerantur."    (Lib,  III,  Tit.  1  De  doctr.  cura,  V.) 

"La  Regla  decimaoctava,  dice  Arrillaga,  es  la  vigesima  que  estampa  Murillo 
en  el  tit.  de  Institutionibus,  num.  82;  y  en  ella  se  prescribe  que  la  provision  de 
algun  beneficio  parroquial,  hecha  en  alguna  persona  que  no  sepa  el  idioma  de  sus 
feligreses,  ni  pueda  explicarse  en  H,  aun  cuando  proceda  del  mismo  Papa,  sea 
nula  y  de  ningun  valor"  (Notas  al  Cons.  Ill  mex.). 

"20.  Item  voluit,  quod  si  contingat,  ipsum  (Urbano  VIII)  alicui  personal  de 
parochiali  Ecclesia,  vel  quovis  alio  beneficio  exercilium  cura  animarum  parochi- 
anorum  quomodolibet  habente,  prouideret,  nisi  ipsa  persona  intelligat,  &  intelli- 
gibiliter  loqui  sciat  idioma  loci,  ubi  Ecclesia,  vel  beneficium  huiusmodi  consistit, 
prouisio,  seu  mandatum,  &  gratia  desuper,  quoad  parochialem  Eccleisam,  vel 
beneficium  huiusmodi,  nullius  sint  roboris  vel  momenti." 

1  The  Books  of  Chilam  Balam  (p.  182)  are  examples  of  Maya  texts  written 
by  the  natives  phonetically. 


8  GRAMMAR 

guage  to  correspond  to  every  term  in  his  Spanish  grammar.  The 
desire  to  find  words  which  fitted  the  different  categories  of  thought 
expressed  in  his  own  grammar  often  outweighed  his  keenness  in 
realizing  that  many  grammatical  forms  used  in  Spanish  could  not 
be  properly  expressed  in  the  native  language.  Parallels  were  sought 
for  every  form  in  the  Spanish  or  Latin.  The  investigators  usually 
found  some  native  term  which  seemed  to  them  to  conform  to  the 
same  expression  in  their  own  language.  If  a  native  did  not  seem 
able  at  first  to  give  words  for  the  pluperfect  tense  in  his  language, 
the  more  one  insisted  that  there  must  be  such  forms  the  sooner 
the  native  would  give  something  which  superficially  seemed  to  be 
a  pluperfect. 

The  whole  difficulty  lies  in  the  fact  that  it  is  impossible  to  build 
up  a  grammar  of  a  primitive  language  by  following  a  Latin  or 
Spanish  model.1  This  rigid  adherence  to  such  a  model  leads  to  two 
defects.  Forms  are  given  the  investigator,  often  after  repeated 
questioning,  which  only  vaguely  express  corresponding  forms  in 
Spanish  or  Latin.  These  are  often  unnatural  and  are  compounded 
so  as  to  express  in  a  most  artificial  way  the  idea  desired.  The  second 
defect  is  the  greater  as  scores  of  native  expressions  are  entirely 
overlooked  and  are  never  recorded  in  the  early  grammars  as  there 
are  no  forms  corresponding  to  them  in  Latin. 

The  Spanish  missionary  did  not  realize  that  the  different  cate- 
gories of  a  grammar  of  a  primitive  language  are  entirely  different 

1  Palma  y  Palma  (1901,  p.  159)  in  criticizing  Beltran's  grammar  expresses 
the  same  idea.  "  Fray  Pedro  de  Beltran,  el  mejor  autor  de  gramdtica  maya,  hay 
que  admitir  que  la  carencia  de  un  signo  propio  en  el  idioma  para  la  expresion  de 
los  verbos  sustantivos  es  efecliva.  Tan  hdbil  en  la  lengua  como  diestro  en  el  latin, 
se  esforzo  en  calcar  su  Arte  del  idioma  maya  a  la  gramdtica  de  la  de  Virgilio,  sin 
tener  en  cuenta  el  genio  y  diversidad  de  indole  de  cada  una.  De  aqui  sus  errores  en 
esto  y  en  otras  cosas  de  que  no  me  es  posible  hablar,  lo  que  no  desdice  en  nada  su 
talento  que  me  es  tanto  mas  grata  reconocer,  cuanto  que  el  P.  Beltran  fue"  yucateco 
nato  y  todo  el  vigor  de  su  entendimiento  claro  se  desarrollo  en  las  aulas  de  su  suelo 
nativo  al  cual  presto  un  gran  servicio  con  su  obra  que  da  a  conocer  mejor  que 
ninguna  otra,  una  de  las  mas  ricas  lenguas  americanas  que  se  acaba  y  desapare- 
cerd  quizd  pronto." 

Berendt  (1878,  p.  5)  writes  in  this  connection,  "A  striking  instance  of  this 
method  is  presented  by  the  Spanish  grammarians,  who,  in  treating  the  aborigi- 
nal languages,  are  particularly  bent  upon  finding  similarities  or  concordances 
with  the  Spanish  or  Latin  grammar,  and,  if  they  do  not  find  them,  frequently 
invent  them. 


INTRODUCTION  9 

from  those  of  an  Indo-European  language.  The  only  possible 
method  of  approach  to  the  study  of  a  primitive  language  is  an 
analytical  one,  working  out  the  different  thought  units  and  the 
methods  of  expressing  these  entirely  divorced  from  any  model 
based  on  Latin  or  Spanish  lines.1 

This  difference  in  categories  will  be  seen  at  many  places  in  the 
following  pages.  Here  it  is  only  necessary  to  point  out  a  few  of 
these  differences.  The  distinction  between  the  noun  and  the  verb 
is  vague  in  many  of  the  Maya  stems  —  many  verbs  are  really 
nouns  and  used  with  the  possessive  pronoun  as  the  subject.  Time 
particles  attached  to  the  nominal  pronoun  are  entirely  overlooked 
in  the  early  grammars.  There  is  no  true  case  in  Maya  except  in 
the  pronoun  where  we  find  only  the  nominal  pronoun  used  as  the 
subject  and  as  a  possessive  and  the  verbal  pronoun  used  as  an  ob- 
ject. No  gender  is  expressed  except  that  particles  are  found  denot- 
ing the  sex  of  the  actor  in  the  "nomen  actoris."  The  inclusive  and 
exclusive  forms  for  the  plural  are  found  in  the  pronoun. 

Maya  is  a  polysynthetic  or  incorporating  language  where  a  pro- 
nominal subject  of  the  verb  is  always  expressed.  Maya  follows,  in 
general,  the  same  methods  of  expression  as  those  found  in  the 
greater  number  of  American  languages.  From  the  point  of  view 
of  lexicography  it  is  distinct  from  any  of  the  other  languages  spoken 
in  Mexico  or  Central  America.  It  is  therefore  in  its  structure  alone 
that  it  corresponds  to  other  American  languages. 

In  the  analytical  treatment  of  the  grammar  I  desire,  as  Boas  2 
expresses  it,  to  present  the  data  "as  though  an  intelligent  Indian 
was  going  to  develop  the  forms  of  his  own  thought  by  an  analysis 
of  his  own  form  of  speech." 

Grammars  of  Coronel,  San  Buenaventura,  and  Beltran.  In  spite 
of  many  omissions  and  forms  which  are  more  or  less  artificial,  the 
old  Spanish  grammars  are  of  distinct  service  in  understanding  the 
language.  I  have  made  frequent  reference  to  these  grammars  in 
the  footnotes  when  my  forms  differ  from  those  given  by  them. 

There  are  three  early  grammars  of  the  language  which  are  worthy 
of  special  mention,  that  of  Coronel,  published  in  1620,  that  of  San 

1  For  a  masterly  treatment  of  this  point  of  view,  see  Boas,  Handbook  of 
American  Indian  Languages,  Bulletin  40,  Bureau  of  Ethnology,  Washington, 
1911.    Introduction,  p.  5-83. 

2  Op.  cit.,  p.  81. 


10  GRAMMAR 

Buenaventura  in  1684,  and  that  of  Beltran  de  Santa  Rosa  in 
1746.1 

The  first  grammar  to  be  written  on  the  Maya  language  was  by 
Villalpando,  one  of  the  first  Catholic  priests  to  arrive  in  Yucatan. 
He  died  in  1551  or  1552.  His  work  was  never  published  and  the 
manuscript  has  disappeared.2  This  grammar,  with  additions  by 
Landa,  was  probably  the  basis  of  Coronel's  work.3  The  latter 
starts  with  the  pronouns  giving  nothing  on  the  phonetics  which  are 
treated  by  both  San  Buenaventura  and  Beltran. 

It  is  quite  evident  that  San  Buenaventura  based  his  work  almost 
entirely  on  that  of  Coronel.   The  examples  in  Maya  given  to  illus- 
trate the  different  parts  of  the  grammar  are  often  identical  with 
those  given  by  Coronel.   There  are,  in  fact,  only  a  very  few  cases 
where  San  Buenaventura  has  material  not  to  be  found  in  Coronel. 
The  list  of  particles  (fols.  20-37)  given  by  San  Buenaventura  con- 
tain many  not  listed  by  Coronel.   Coronel,  on  the  other  hand,  has 
many  not  given  by  San  Buenaventura.   Coronel  also  discusses  the 
optative  which  is  not  mentioned  by  San  Buenaventura  and  he 
gives  a  much  fuller  treatment  of  the  subjunctive  than  that  given 
by  San  Buenaventura.  The  latter's  work,  written  about  1675,  was 
published  in  1684,  64  years  after  that  of  Coronel.    There  is  no 
internal  evidence  that  the  language  had  changed  during  that  time. 
Beltran  called  San  Buenaventura,  "el  Protomaestro  del  Idioma 
Yucateco."    He  was  not  aware  of  the  grammars  of  Villalpando, 
Landa,  and  of  Coronel  when  he  wrote  his  work.4   Beltran  follows 
San  Buenaventura  in  using  the  same  verbs  for  his  paradigms  but 
he  has  a  large  amount  of  new  material  in  his  grammar  and  often 
refers  to  what  he  considers  mistakes  in  San  Buenaventura's  work. 
In  every  way  Beltran's  grammar  should  be  considered  by  far  the 
best  of  the  three  printed  early  treatises  on  Maya.    His  qualifica- 
tions for  writing  a  grammar  are  many  as  he  himself  states.5   He 

1  For  full  discussion  of  the  different  editions  of  these  grammars,  see  p.  163- 
165. 

2  For  a  list  of  the  large  number  of  authorities  whose  works  have  been  lost 
see  p.  151-153. 

a  Beltran,  1859  ed.,  p.  242.    Hereafter  references  to  Beltran  will  be  to  this 
edition. 

4  See  Beltran,  p.  242. 

5  §  148.    "Para  exporter  al  ptiblico  mi  dictdmen  (habiendo  de  asentar  mis  con- 
jugaciones  diver sas  de  las  del  R.  P.  Fr.  Gabriel  [San  Buenaventura])  necesario 


INTRODUCTION  11 

was  a  native  of  Yucatan,  grew  up  among  the  Indians  and  lived 
among  them  practically  all  his  life.  San  Buenaventura,  on  the 
other  hand,  was  a  Frenchman  and  probably  lived  almost  exclu- 
sively with  Spanish  speaking  people  in  Merida. 

It  has  already  been  pointed  out  that  there  are  practically  no 
differences  between  the  Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  grammars. 
Beltran,  on  the  other  hand,  finds  much  to  differ  with  in  the  lan- 
guage as  he  records  it  and  as  given  by  San  Buenaventura.1  The 
differences  between  the  present  author's  version  of  the  grammar 
and  that  of  Beltran  and  of  the  other  grammarians  will  be  noted 
throughout  the  paper. 

There  are  four  possible  explanations  for  these  differences: 

1.  Time. 

2.  Mistakes  of  each  of  the  authors  in  question. 

3.  Omissions  due  to  following  the  Latin  model. 

4.  Difference  in  locality  where  the  data  were  collected. 

Beltran's  work,  written  in  1742,  was  published  in  1746,  62  years 
after  that  of  San  Buenaventura  (1684)  and  126  years  after  that  of 
Coronel  (1620).  It  has  been  pointed  out  that  the  grammars  of 
Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  do  not  differ  in  substance  and  yet 
presumably  each  recorded  the  language  as  spoken  at  or  near  the 
time  they  were  published,  64  years  apart.  The  question  may  then 
be  asked,  did  62  more  years  cause  the  differences  in  the  idiom  as 
noted  by  Beltran  from  that  of  the  time  of  San  Buenaventura? 
Again,  are  the  differences  noted  in  the  language  as  spoken  today 

es  dar  las  razones,  que  me  asisten  para  esta,  que  parece  cosa  nueva.  Es,  pues,  la 
primera  que  siendo  yo  hijo  de  esta  provincia,  criado  entre  esios  naturales  y  habiendo 
habitado  con  ellos  una  montana  yerma,  predicdndoles,  confesdndoles,  instruye'n- 
doles  y  con  ellos  de  continuo  en  su  idioma  confabulando,  de  modo  que  se  me  llego 
d  olvidar  mucho  de  los  vocablos  castellanos;  y  estando  juntamente  instruido  del 
Arte  gramdtico  latino,  me  es  preciso  confesar  que  entiendo  con  claridad  sus  periodos 
y  que  conozco  con  evidencia  en  que  clausulas  no  concuerda  su  modo  de  hablar  con 
el  comun  modo;  y  tambien  donde  pueden  no  regir  bien  las  reglas  que  se  pueden  dar 
para  instrucdon  de  los  que  quisieren  sin  error  aprender  su  idioma." 

1  Beltran,  1859  ed.  in  his  "Prohgo  al  Lector"  writes,  "Para  este  fin,  queriendo 
facilitar  mas  este  negocio;  lei  el  Arte  del  R.  P.  F.  Gabriel  de  San  Buenaventura,  de 
Nacion  Frances,  Proto-Maestro  de  este  Idioma,  y  hasta  hoy  el  unico,  que  did  su 
Arte  a  la  prensa:  en  donde  habiendo  yo  hallado  muchos  yerros  de  imprenta,  falta 
de  muchas  reglas,  y  reglas,  que  ya  prescribieron  por  el  contrario  uso;  me  determine 
d  formar  un  nuevo  Arte,  con  el  designio  de  proseguir  haciendo  un  vocabulario  y 
otras  cosas  curiosas,  y  necesarias." 


12  GRAMMAR 

and  that  of  Beltran's  epoch  due  to  the  factor  of  time?  Languages, 
we  are  told,  never  stand  still  and  when  we  take  into  consideration 
the  steady  advance  of  the  Spanish  language  we  do  well  to  pause 
before  stating  that  time  is  not  a  great  factor  in  causing  these  dif- 
ferences. I  consider,  however,  that  time  has  played  a  relatively 
small  part.  Those  differences  pointed  out  by  Beltran  in  his  criti- 
cism of  San  Buenaventura's  grammar  are  undoubtedly,  due  for 
the  most  part,  to  mistakes  in  the  observation  of  the  earlier  gram- 
marian.1 This  point  will  be  made  clearer  in  the  comments  made 
later  on  the  specific  statements  of  Beltran,  San  Buenaventura,  and 
Coronel.2 

The  differences  I  found  in  the  Maya  as  now  spoken  in  Yucatan 
from  the  forms  given  by  Beltran  are,  with  some  few  exceptions,  due, 
it  seems  to  me,  to  the  rigid  adherence  to  the  Latin  model  observed 
by  Beltran.  My  points  of  difference  with  Beltran  are  compara- 
tively few  when  everything  is  taken  into  consideration.  The  addi- 
tional data  presented  here  are  due  to  the  breaking  away  from  the 
Latin  model  and  carrying  on  observations  from  a  different  angle 
of  approach.3   It  should  be  clearly  understood  that  I  refer  here  to 

1  Beltran  states  that  some  of  his  criticisms  of  San  Buenaventura  are  due 
to  the  changes  of  time.  He  writes  as  follows  ($49)  "Para  conocer  a  que"  con- 
jugation pertenece  cada  verbo,  se  advierta  que  estas  son  cuatro,  numero  &  que  las 
redujo  el  R.  P.  Fr.  Gabriel  de  S.  Buenaventura,  Religioso  nuestro  y  Frances  de 
nation,  Protomaestro  de  este  Arte,  formando  el  suyo  (que  a  la  Imprenta  did) 
verdaderamente  con  gran  trabajo  y  elegantia:  regratiable  por  la  conocida  utilidad 
que  nos  dejd  su  magisterio;  pero  como  no  todo  lo  pudo  andar,  nos  dejd  que  ad- 
vertir  algo,  y  porque  los  tiempos  mudan  las  cosas,  serd  pretiso  que  haga  yo  algunas 
notas  cuando  sean  necesarias."  This  statement  is  nattering  to  San  Buenaven- 
tura and  was  evidently  meant  to  be  so.  In  the  specific  objections  given  through- 
out Beltran' s  text  it  is  clear  that  he  considers  San  Buenaventura  to  have  made 
actual  mistakes  in  recording  the  language.  The  fact  that  he  states  that  he  was 
brought  up  among  the  natives  (§  148)  and  that  San  Buenaventura  was  a 
Frenchman  brings  out  clearly  his  own  idea  that  he  was  the  better  fitted  to 
write  a  Maya  grammar. 

2  The  reader  will  note  that  I  have  endeavored  to  point  out  in  footnotes  the 
main  points  where  I  differ  from  the  old  grammarians  on  the  one  hand  and 
modern  writers  such  as  Seler,  Palma  y  Palma,  and  Lopez,  on  the  other. 

3  Brinton  (1882,  p.  35,  36)  writes  on  this  point,  "I  must,  however,  not  omit 
to  contradict  formally  an  assertion  made  by  the  traveller  Waldeck,  and  often 
repeated,  that  the  language  has  undergone  such  extensive  changes  that  what 
was  written  a  century  ago  is  unintelligible  to  a  native  of  today.  So  far  is  this 
from  the  truth  that,  except  for  a  few  obsolete  words,  the  narrative  of  the  Con- 
quest, written  more  than  three  hundred  years  ago,  by  the  chief  Pech,  which 


INTRODUCTION  13 

grammatical  structure  and  not  to  vocabulary.  In  the  latter  respect 
the  change  has  been  far  greater.1 

There  remain  to  be  examined  the  differences  due  to  the  locality 
where  the  material  was  collected.  There  are  no  data  to  identify 
the  place  where  Coronel  did  his  work  on  Maya.  San  Buenaventura 
was  connected  with  the  Convent  of  San  Francisco  in  Merida.2  The 
name  of  the  Indian  who  gave  him  most  of  the  facts  regarding  the 
language  is  known  but  we  are  not  aware,  as  Beltran  points  out, 
whether  or  not  this  Indian  was  a  native  of  Merida.3 

Beltran  was  at  the  Convent  of  San  Pedro  y  San  Pablo  at  Tiab 
in  the  former  province  of  San  Jose.  This  town,  now  called  Teabo, 
is  in  the  present  District  of  Tekax,  about  half  way  between  Tekax 
and  Peto.  It  is  very  probable  that  the  material  for  his  grammar 
was  collected  in  this  vicinity.4  A  contrast  should  be  made  between 
a  practically  pure  Maya  population  in  towns  such  as  Teabo  and  a 
mixed  population  such  as  is  found  at  Merida. 

I  print  in  this  volume,  could  be  read  without  much  difficulty  by  any  educated 
native." 

1  See  in  this  connection  the  discussion  of  the  translation  of  old  Maya  texts, 
p.  114. 

2  According  to  the  Aprobag,on  del  Br.  Juan  Gomez  Brizeno  in  San  Buena- 
ventura's grammar,  the  latter  was  "Religioso  del  Orden  del  Senor  S.  Francisco, 
Difinidor  habitual  Guardian  del  Convento  del  Senor  S.  Francisco  de  la  Ciudad 
de  Merida  y  Lector  en  el  Idioma  Yucatheco." 

3  Beltran  (§  50)  writes,  "El  R.  P.  fu£  Autor  primero  .  .  .  y  lo  enseno  todo  d 
los  Indios  de  esta  Provincia,  fu£  un  Indio  llamado  Kinchahau,  y  por  otro  nombre 
Tzamna.  Noticia  que  debemos  d  dicho  R.  F.  Gabriel,  y  trae  en  su  Calepino  lit.  K. 
Verb.  Kinchahau,  jol.  390,  vuelt.;  mas  no  dice  como  adquirio  este  Indio  tal  Idi- 
oma: y  de  aqui  se  infiere  que  el  Idioma  de  esta  Provincia  era  otro  y  muy  distinto.,> 

4  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1871,  p.  23)  writes,  "Le  pere  Beltran  de  Santa- 
Rosa  Maria  e*%ait  natif  de  Merida  de  Yucatan,  oil  il  prit,  des  sa  jeunesse,  Vhabit 
de  Saint  Francois,  Profitant  des  travaux  faits  avant  lui,  et  en  particulier  de  ceux 
du  pere  Gabriel  de  Saint  Bonaventure,  il  composa  sa  Grammaire,  dans  le  temps 
qu'il  enseignait  la  langue  maya  au  monastere  principal  de  San-Benito  de  sa  ville 
natale,  dont  les  grandes  ruines  recouvrent  aujourd'hui  celles  de  V antique  demeure 
des  pontifes  d'Ahchum-Caan."  There  seems  little  doubt  that  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  is  mistaken  in  thinking  that  Beltran's  Grammar  was  written  in 
Merida.  There  is  published  in  the  grammar  the  Censura  of  Miguel  Leal  de 
Las  Alas,  Predicador  of  the  Province  of  San  Jose  and  of  Pedro  Martin,  Pre- 
dicador  at  Tiab  together  with  the  Licencia  of  Juan  Esteban  Pinelo  of  the  Pro- 
vince of  San  Jose\  These  add  weight  to  the  supposition  that  Beltran  wrote 
his  work  when  he  was  at  the  Convent  of  San  Pedro  y  San  Pablo  at  Tiab,  the 
present  Teabo. 


14  GRAMMAR 

Palma  y  Palma,  who  collected  his  material  in  Merida,  writes  of 
the  language  as  spoken  in  the  east,  where  Beltran  lived,  as  espe- 
cially given  to  contractions.1  The  use  of  contractions  marks  the 
main  change  in  the  language  as  recorded  here  and  that  used  by 
the  Lacandones.  It  is  probable  that  simple  phonetic  variations  and 
a  difference  in  the  use  of  the  contracted  forms  alone  distinguish  the 
Maya  of  these  two  widely  separated  localities.2  The  changes  in  the 
language  in  the  peninsula  itself  seem  to  be  correspondingly  few  and 
consist  for  the  most  part,  of  a  favorite  use  of  one  or  more  possible 
variations  in  expression.  These  variations  are  commonly  known 
by  everyone.  Slightly  different  pronunciations  of  the  sounds  are 
to  be  noted.  The  language  structurally  does  not  seem  to  differ 
much  in  the  whole  peninsula. 

It  is  possible  to  sum  this  question  up  by  saying  that,  whereas 
the  vocabulary  has  changed  greatly  owing  to  the  more  extended 
use  of  Spanish  and  the  corresponding  loss  of  Maya  words,  there 
seem  to  be  comparatively  few  differences  in  the  fundamental 
characteristics  of  the  language,  the  structure  remaining  practically 
unchanged  as  far  as  can  be  made  out  from  a  comparison  of  the 
language  as  spoken  in  the  early  days  of  the  Spanish  Conquest  and 
that  spoken  today  in  the  smaller  towns  and  away  from  the  large 
centers  of  population. 

Maya  of  present  time.  As  noted  in  a  previous  study  of  the  ethnol- 
ogy of  the  Mayas3  one  very  interesting  fact  comes  out  in  connection 
with  the  Maya  language  of  Yucatan,  a  fact  noted  by  all  histo- 
rians and  writers  on  the  inhabitants  of  the  peninsula.  The  Maya 
language  has  withstood  with  amazing  stability  the  entrance  of  the 
Spanish  tongue  into  the  country.  The  language  is  still  an  impor- 
tant factor  to  be  taken  into  consideration  when  dealing  with  this 
people.  Maya  is  the  language  spoken  by  the  natives  in  the  large 
cities  quite  as  much  as  in  the  thinly  populated  regions.  Even  the 
natives  who  have  a  good  knowledge  of  Spanish  almost  invariably 
use  Maya  when  conversing  with  one  another  and  some  absolutely 

1  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  179),  "  Uin  y  tlo,  son  contracciones  mds  usadas  en  el 
Oriente  constituyendo  uno  de  los  distintivos  del  lenguaje  y  estilo  en  aquella  parte 
del  pais  donde  vivid  largos  anos  de  misionero  y  predicador  el  P.  Beltran  *  hasta 
casi  olvidar  el  castellano,1  como  H  mismo  pone  en  el  prologo  de  su  gramdtica." 

2  For  further  details  in  this  point,  see  p.  27. 

3  Tozzer,  1907,  p.  36. 


INTRODUCTION  15 

refuse  to  speak  anything  else,  clinging  to  their  own  tongue  with 
the  greatest  devotion.1 

So  general  is  the  use  of  the  native  tongue  in  the  peninsula  that 
in  some  places  in  the  small  interior  towns  it  is  sometimes  difficult 
to  find  one  who  can  carry  on  a  continued  conversation  in  Spanish 
although  most  of  the  younger  generation  understand  it  when 
spoken.  It  is  curious  to  note  the  varying  differences  in  the  tenacity 
of  the  mother  tongue  in  various  parts  of  Mexico  and  Central 
America.  In  many  isolated  places  throughout  the  whole  region 
the  native  languages  still  continue  to  be  used.  But  in  most  cases 
with  close  contact  the  native  tongue  has  given  way  to  Spanish. 
Contact,  however,  since  the  very  earliest  days  of  the  Conquest  has 
not  had  this  influence  on  the  Maya  of  Yucatan  and  this  still  re- 
mains the  language  of  the  country. 

On  many  of  the  large  plantations,  Maya  is  spoken  exclusively 
and  the  mayor  domos  use  it  invariably  in  speaking  to  the  natives. 
The  Spanish  priests  when  making  their  visits  through  the  small 
towns  preach  their  sermons  in  Maya. 

Modern  Maya  Grammars.  I  have  attempted  to  give  in  the 
Appraisement  (Part  III)  a  full  discussion  of  what  I  consider  to  be 
the  relative  merits  of  the  many  writers  on  the  Maya  dialect.  It  is, 
therefore,  only  necessary  here  to  say  a  few  words  concerning  the 
modern  works  to  which  reference  is  made  in  the  main  body  of  this 
paper.  The  grammar  of  Ruz  (1844)  is  of  very  slight  value.  The 
work  of  Seler  (1887),  although  based  entirely  on  the  early  gram- 
mars, is  the  first  attempt  ever  made  to  explain  the  structure  of  the 
language.  The  book  of  Palma  y  Palma  (1901),  although  following 
the  lines  of  the  older  grammarians,  contains  a  great  deal  of  new  and 
valuable  material.  The  grammars  of  Zavala  (1896)  and  of  Pacheco 
Cruz  (1912)  should  be  mentioned  here.  The  best  modern  grammar 
is  that  of  Lopez  Otero  (1914). 

1  Compare  Brinton  (1882,  p.  27-28)  who  writes,  "It  has  been  observed 
that  foreigners,  coming  to  Yucatan,  ignorant  of  both  Spanish  and  Maya,  ac- 
quire a  conversational  knowledge  of  the  latter  more  readily  than  of  the  former." 
He  quotes  Garcia  y  Garcia  (1865,  p.  lxxv)  who  writes  on  this  point,  "La  lengua 
castellana  es  mas  difficultosa  que  la  Maya  para  la  gente  adulta,  que  no  ha  mamado 
con  la  leche,  como  lo  ha  ensenado  la  experiencia  en  los  estranjeros  de  distintas 
naciones,  y  en  los  negros  bozales  que  se  han  radicado  en  esta  provincia,  que  mas 
facilmente  han  aprendido  la  Maya  que  la  castellana." 


16  GRAMMAR 

The  late  Sefior  Don  Audomaro  Molina  of  Merida,  Yucatan,  was 
probably  one  of  the  best  Maya  scholars  of  the  present  time.  He 
partially  completed  the  difficult  task  of  revising  for  publication 
the  Motul  dictionary.  Unfortunately  he  published  nothing  on  the 
language. 

One  of  his  pupils,  however,  Daniel  Lopez  Otero,  notes  in  his 
Gramatica  Maya  1  that  he  is  under  obligations  to  Sefior  Molina 
who  taught  him  the  greater  part  of  the  rules  he  uses  in  his  work. 

Mention  should  be  made  of  another  Maya  scholar,  Sefior  Don 
Juan  Martinez  Hernandez  of  Merida,  who  has  worked  for  many 
years  on  the  Maya  language  and,  more  especially,  on  the  Books  of 
Chilam  Balam  and  on  Maya  chronology.  His  valuable  writings  are 
listed  in  the  Bibliography.  I  am  under  deep  obligations  to  him 
for  encouragement  in  this  work  and  more  especially  for  his  willing- 
ness to  read  the  proof  and  to  suggest  changes  in  the  text  of  this 
paper. 

All  Maya  scholars  are  very  greatly  indebted  to  Mr.  William 
Gates  of  Point  Loma,  California,  through  whose  energy  and  acu- 
men large  stores  of  material  in  the  Maya  language  have  been 
made  available  to  students.  Further  mention  of  this  work  is  made 
in  Part  III  (p.  148-149). 

Provenance  of  material  discussed.  The  greater  part  of  the  linguis- 
tic material  used  in  this  study  was  obtained  from  Benito  Can,  a 
native  of  Valladolid,  a  town  in  northeastern  Yucatan.  The  Span- 
iards under  Montejo  founded  this  city  in  1543  upon  the  site  of  the 
native  town  of  Saki.  During  the  early  days  of  the  Spanish  occupa- 
tion the  city  arose  to  some  prominence.   It  was  and  is,  even  to  this 

1  Lopez  (1914,  p.  5)  writes  in  this  connection,  "  Tampoco  he  pretendido  con- 
quistar  honores  que  no  merezco,  sino  rendir  este  humilde  recuerdo  de  gratitud  y 
admiration  a  mi  ilustrado  y  muy  querido  maestro,  don  Audomaro  Molina  Soils 
(q.  d.  D.  g.)  de  quien  he  aprendido  la  mayor  parte  de  las  reglas  que,  en  esta  desa- 
lihada  obrita,  hallard  el  indulgente  lector  que  se  dignare  leerla.  Si  el  Maestro 
viviera,  no  me  ocuparia  en  escribir  nada  acerca  de  este  idioma;  pero  habiendo  falle- 
cido  sin  haber  realizado  la  noble  idea,  por  U  acariciada,  de  dar  a  luz  una  gramatica 
y  un  diccionario  de  la  lengua  maya,  y  observando  que  ninguno  de  sus  discipulos 
ha  publicado  nada  hasta  la  fecha  acerca  de  este  idioma,  a  fin  de  que  tan  sabias 
como  Utiles  ensenanzas  no  sean  relegadas  al  olvido,  he  resuelto  publicar  en  forma 
gramatical  las  lectiones  que  de  H  he  retibido,  aumentadas  con,  algunas  reglas 
tomadas  del  arte  .  .  .  de  Beltrdn  de  Santa  Rosa  Maria,  y  otras  observationes  que 
personalmente  he  tenido  ocasion  de  hacer,"  etc. 


PHONETICS  17 

day,  the  farthest  point  eastward  of  the  country  brought  under 
complete  Spanish  control.  The  vast  territory  immediately  east- 
ward to  the  coast  is  occupied  by  the  "indios  sublevados."  These 
wandering  bands  of  Indians  have  never  been  wholly  conquered  by 
the  Mexicans.  Valladolid  has  suffered  several  attacks  and  destruc- 
tions at  the  hands  of  these  wild  tribes  and  the  city  is  now  hardly 
more  than  an  Indian  town. 

The  language  spoken  at  Valladolid  is  perhaps  more  free  from  out- 
side influence  than  that  used  in  any  other  portion  of  the  settled 
part  of  the  peninsula. 

At  the  time  of  my  four  successive  seasons  in  Yucatan,  Benito  Can 
was  an  indented  servant  upon  the  Hacienda  of  Chichen  Itza  be- 
longing to  Mr.  E.  H.  Thompson  then  American  Consul  at  Progreso, 
Yucatan.  It  was  while  accepting  the  kind  hospitality  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Thompson  that  I  did  the  greater  part  of  my  linguistic  work. 

The  investigations  into  the  language  were  undertaken  at  several 
different  times  covering  the  whole  period  of  four  years.  Thus  I 
was  able  to  check  up  the  material  often  after  periods  separated  by 
an  absence  of  a  year  or  more. 

Benito  Can  had  a  strain  of  Spanish  blood  in  his  veins.  He  had 
lived  all  his  life,  however,  in  the  town  of  his  birth  and  had  had  com- 
paratively little  contact  with  the  Spanish  speaking  population. 
His  knowledge  of  Spanish,  however,  was  adequate  for  my  purpose. 
He  was  one  of  three  brothers  the  other  two  of  whom  could  not 
speak  a  word  of  Spanish.  This  man  was  of  rather  a  higher  grade 
of  intelligence  than  the  average  Maya.  I  used  several  other  inter- 
preters to  check  up  the  material  obtained  from  Can. 

PHONETICS 

Genekal  character.  The  phonetic  system  of  the  Maya  is  gen- 
erally simple.  The  occurrence  of  the  velar  k  (q)  and  the  globa- 
lized or  fortis  forms  of  the  t,  p,  and  the  two  dental  surds  (o  and 
ts)  give  the  language  a  certain  harshness  when  compared  with  the 
Nahuatl  of  the  north  with  its  smooth  liquid  sounds.1 

1  Beltran  in  his  "Prologo  al  Lector"  writes,  "Es  el  Yucateco  Idioma  garboso 
en  sus  dicciones,  elegante  en  sus  periodos,  y  en  ambas  cosas  conciso:  pues  con  pocas 
palabras  y  breves  silabas  explica  a  veces  profundas  sentencias.  Y  como  se  acer- 
tardn  a  pronunciar  ciertas  consonantes,  que  lo  hacen  acre,  seria  muy  fdcil  de 


k 

t 

t' 

0 

0' 

t§ 

t§! 

P 

p' 

18  GRAMMAR 

Consonants.  The  system  of  consonants  includes  one  velar,  two 
palatals,  alveolars,  a  double  set  of  dentals  in  both  the  surd  and  the 
fortis,  and  labials.  It  is  often  difficult  to  distinguish  between  the 
sonant  b  and  its  corresponding  surd  p.  It  is  probable,  however, 
that  they  are  not  interchangeable.  The  following  table  represents 
the  system  of  consonants  found  in  the  Maya: 

Sonant        Surd       Fortis     Spirant      Nasal      Lateral 
Velar  q 

Palatal 
Alveolar 

Dental 

Labial  b 

In  addition  to  these  sounds,  w,  y,  and  h  sounds  occur.  I  have 
been  much  perplexed  by  what  I  have  long  thought  to  be  an  r 
sound,  possibly  a  sonant  of  the  spirant.  No  mention  of  this  sound 
is  made  in  any  of  the  early  grammars  and  its  presence  is  denied  by 
the  Mayas  themselves.  This  sound  I  seem  to  have  heard  in  several 
words  written  by  Maya  scholars  with  a  doubled  vowel: 

tin  bor-t-ik,  or,  as  usually  written,  tin  boo-t-ik, 
lerti  or  leeti  or  leti. 

I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  to  omit  this  sound  from  the  list.1 

There  may  also  be  fortis  forms  for  the  velar  and  the  palatal 
surd  (q  and  k).  These  are  difficult  to  make  out.  No  differentiation 
seems  to  be  made  between  the  surd  and  the  fortis  in  the  k  sounds 
in  the  greater  number  of  cases.  I  have  been  unable  to  note  any 
difference  in  the  grammatical  structure  of  the  language  as  a  con- 
sequence of  the  failure  to  differentiate  between  the  surd  and  the 
fortis  in  these  two  cases.  The  vocabulary  ought  naturally  to  make 
the  distinction  if  it  is  present  but  I  have  not  found  it. 

The  velar  k,  written  q,  is  formed  between  the  back  of  the  tongue 
and  the  soft  palate.   The  palatal  k  is  the  common  English  k.   The 

aprender  por  Arte;  por  carecer,  no  solo  de  muchas  letras,  sino  tambien  de  libros 
enteros,  de  los  cuales  fastidian  d  un  Gramdtico.  iQuUn  creyera,  que  un  idioma 
muy  lato  se  habia  de  practicar  con  expedicion  y  sin  tropiezo:  sin  tardanza,  y  con 
prefeccion  sin  el  adminiculo  de  ocho  consonantes?  Este  es  el  Idioma  6  Lengua 
Maya;  y  tan  cierto,  que  carece  de  las  siguientes:  d,  f,  g,  j,  q,  r,  s,  11." 

1  The  r  sound  is  well  recognized  in  Cakchiquel  and  Quiche  where  it  is  used 
in  place  of  the  y  in  Maya.  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  145)  uses  the  r  in  one  case,  at 
least,  in  modern  Maya. 


PHONETICS  19 

palatal  spirant  (H)  is  an  intensified  h  sound  and  is  found  only  in 
one  place  as  far  as  could  be  made  out.  The  first  dental  surd,  really 
a  ts,  is  written  with  an  inverted  c  (o).  The  second  dental  surd,  ts, 
is  pronounced  like  the  first  ch  in  church.  The  fortis  forms,  called 
by  the  early  Spanish  grammarians  "  las  letras  heridas"  are  found 
in  the  alveolar,  t\  the  two  dentals,  oy  and  tsJ  and  the  labial,  p\ 
These  are  common  and  are  characterized  by  a  forcible  expelling 
of  the  breath  with  glottal  closure.  The  dental  spirant,  s,  is  pro- 
nounced like  the  sh  in  hush.  The  lateral  (1)  is  thick  and  rather 
strongly  sonant.1  Long  combinations  of  consonant  sounds  do  not 
occur. 

Vowels.  The  vowel  system  is  very  simple.  The  vowels  all  have 
their  continental  sounds.  There  is  a  long  a  (a)  and  a  short  a  (a), 
the  first  pronounced  like  a  in  father  and  the  second  like  a  in  hat. 
There  is  also  some  indication  of  a  long  e  (e)  like  a  in  fate,  long  i 
(f)  like  i  in  pique  and  long  u  (u)  like  u  in  rule  in  addition  to  the 
ordinary  e,  i,  and  u.  I  did  not  find  a  long  o.2  The  only  diphthong 
is  ai,  written  by  the  early  authorities  as  ay. 

1  For  the  best  discussion  of  the  phonetics  of  the  Maya  as  given  in  the  older 
authorities,  see  Beltran,  §§  1-16.  See  also  Lopez,  §§  1-11  and  Gates,  1920, 
p.  611-613. 

2  Perez  (1866-1877)  speaks  of  two  forms  of  the  vowel  although  he  does  not 
distinguish  these  forms  in  his  dictionary.  Under  each  of  the  vowels  he  de- 
scribes the  two  forms.  Under  "A,"  for  example,  he  writes,  "Esta  vocal  se 
pronuncia  $e  dos  maneras,  una  suave  que  puede  ser  larga  6  breve,  y  otra  fuerte  en 
la  que  como  que  se  contiene  el  aliento  6  sonido  repentinamente  al  mismo  tiempo  de 
emitirlo:  como  en  na,  casa  y  na,  madre."  A  question  might  well  be  raised  here 
whether  he  is  not  speaking  of  the  doubled  vowel  in  each  case.  It  seems  from 
his  illustration  ot  na,  casa,  and  na,  madre,  that  this  is  not  the  case.  The  a  in 
the  word  for  house  is  short  and  in  that  for  mother  it  is  long. 

Berendt  (1869)  also  gives  two  forms  for  each  of  the  vowels  but  he  expressly 
states  that  one  is  long  and  the  other  short. 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  137)  refers  at  length  to  the  confusion  caused  by  the 
different  ways  of  pronouncing  the  same  vowel.  He  writes  (p.  139),  "  Aunque 
de  esto  hablare"  desputs  en  lugar  mas  apropiado,  bueno  es  decir  siquiera  de  paso, 
que  las  voces  monosildbicas  may  as,  no  tienen  una  cantidad.  prosodica  fija.  Unas 
son  extremadamente  breves  en  la  emision,  y  otras,  sin  contar  con  sus  diversas 
inflexiones  y  acentos  que  son  otros  medios  de  distincion,  son  mas  6  menos  largas. 
Por  eso  no  se  representan  bien  siempre  doblando  las  vocales,  pues  las  hay  tan 
largas,  que  necesitarian  tres  6  rads." 

In  this  discussion  of  long  and  short  vowels,  it  is  significant  to  observe  that 
the  Landa  alphabet  has  three  forms  for  a,  two  for  o  and  two  for  u.  See  in 
this  connection,  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  222-239. 


20  GRAMMAR 

Doubled  Vowels.  These  are  very  common  in  Maya  and  great  care 
is  sometimes  needed  in  distinguishing  them  as : x 

kan,  snake.  sill,  to  give,  to  offer. 

kaan,  sky.  ton,  male  sexual  member. 

be,  road.  toon,  we. 

bee,  exclamation  of  pain.  hun,  one. 

sil,  to  tuck  up  the  sleeves.  huun,  paper,  letter. 

Notation.  It  is  a  matter  of  no  little  importance  to  decide  how 
the  various  sounds  should  be  written.  The  table  (p.  21),  gives  the 
alphabets  as  used  by  the  modern  authors  on  Maya  as  well  as  the 
letters  used  by  the  older  Spanish  authorities  either  in  their  gram- 
mars or  in  their  vocabularies.  There  is  a  considerable  mass  of 
written  Maya  and  material  is  still  being  published  in  Yucatan  in 
this  language.  The  usual  modern  method  follows  more  or  less 
closely  that  used  by  the  earlier  writers,  c  for  our  k,  a  k  for  the  velar 
surd  (q),  a  barring  or  doubling  of  the  letters  for  the  "  letras  heridas  " 
or  fortis  forms,  ch,  th,  and  pp.  The  fortis  form  of  one  of  the  den- 
tals is  almost  always  written  o.  The  inconsistency  from  a  pho- 
netic standpoint  of  this  method  is  great  but  the  fact  that  there  is 
a  large  mass  of  material  already  written  in  this  way  should  be 
given  due  consideration  before  any  changes  are  suggested. 

Furthermore,  the  ease  of  printing  and  the  necessity  for  new 
type  if  diacritical  marks  are  used  are  other  considerations  which 

1  The  later  Spanish  dictionaries  often  fail  to  distinguish  the  difference  be- 
tween a  single  vowel  and  the  same  one  doubled.  Perez  (1866-77),  for  example, 
gives  qiq  or  qiiq  for  blood,  kimil  or  kiimil,  to  die.  The  Motul  and  Ticul  dic- 
tionaries, on  the  other  hand,  give  but  one  form  for  each  of  these  words.  The 
early  Spanish  grammarians  make  no  reference  to  these  double  vowels.    - 

Berendt  specifically  mentions  them.  In  speaking  of  false  diphthongs  he 
writes  (1869,  p.  4)  "  In  languages  of  the  Maya  family  they  are  often  formed  by 
a  repetition  of  the  same  vowel  and  constitute  a  remarkable  distinction;  kan 
is  snake  and  kaan  is  sky  in  Maya." 

Pimentel  (1862-1865,  v.  2,  p.  7;  ed.  1874-1875,  v.  3,  p.  108)  writes  "No  se 
observa  cargazon  de  consonantes  en  yucateco,  y  si  la  repetition  de  una  misma 
vocal  en  muchas  palabras." 

1  e  and  z  were  omitted,  probably  by  mistake,  from  the  list  of  sounds  given 
by  Zavala. 

2  Seler  in  his  first  paragraphs  writes  the  sounds  as  indicated  here  and  in  his 
text  he  follows  the  accustomed  usage. 

3  e  and  ch  were  omitted  by  mistake  in  the  1859  edition  of  the  grammar.  They 
occur  in  the  1746  edition. 


PHONETICS 


21 


ALPHABETS  USED  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORITIES 


u 
a 

M 
O 

H 

02 

1 

"3 
0 

1 

sa 

CD 
08 

GO 

of 

*c5 
> 

a 

00 

oo 
"o 

a 

o 

a 

a 

CC 

o 

OJOO 

05 

to 

00 

c 

n 

00 

N     1 

01  CD 

IS 

i 

3 

i 

u 

pq 

£2 

o 

V 

11 

fa. 2 
a  "5 

.2 

5 

h 

GO 

0* 

03 
bi 

n 

■  °o 

m  3 
fifi 
m  > 

8 

CO 

s 
o 

3 

a,  a 

a 

a 

a 

a 

a 

a 

a,  a 

a,  a 

a,  a 

a 

a 

a 

a 

a,  a 

a 

a 

ai 

ei[?] 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b 

b* 

k 

c 

c 

c 

c 
k 
ch 

c 
k 

c 

c 

k 

c  • 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

c 

ts 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ts2 
ch' 

ch 

ch 

ch 

tx 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch3 

ch 

ch 

ts' 

ch' 

ch 

ch 

chh 

ch' 

ch 

ch' 

tx 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch 

ch 

e,  e 

e 

e 

[ep 

e 

e 

e 

e 

e,  e 

e,  e 

e 

e 

e 

e 

e3 

e 

e 

H 

J 

h' 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 

J 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 

h 
J 

h 
J 

i,i 

i 

i 

i 

i 
c' 

i 
c' 

i 

i 
k 

i,i 

i,i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

i 

1 

q 

k 

k 

k 

k' 

k' 

k 

k' 

K 

k 

k 

k 

k 

k 

k 

k 

k 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

m 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

n 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

6,  6 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 
P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

P 

p' 

p' 

P 

P 

PP 

PP 

PP 

P' 

P 

PP 

PP 

PP 

PP 

PP 

PP 

PP 

z 

PP 

z 

s 

s   • 

z 

[z]1 

s 

X 

s 

s 

z 

z 

s 

z 

z 

z 

z 

c 

z 

c 

f 

s. 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t 

t' 

t' 

dt 

th 

th 

tt 

th 

t' 

t 

th 

th 

th 

th 

th 

th 

th 

th 

0 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

ts 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

tz 

o' 

tz' 

0 

0 

0 

tz' 

0 

0 

ts 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

3 

u,u 

u 

V 

u 

u 

u 

u 

V 

u 

u 

u,u 

V 

u,u 

u 

u 

u 

u 

u 

V 

U 

w 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

y 

1  See  footnotes  1,  2,  and  3  on  opposite  page. 


22  GRAMMAR 

should  be  taken  into  account.  If  any  changes  whatsoever  are  to 
be  made  from  the  older  methods  it  seems  to  me  that  these  changes 
should  be  along  well  recognized  phonetic  lines  and  that  they  should 
be  consistent. 

In  adopting  what,  in  some  cases,  is  a  new  method  I  have  been 
largely  governed  by  a  desire  to  follow  phonetic  practices  used  by 
other  writers  on  the  languages  of  America,  namely,  to  use  a  single 
character  for  a  single  sound  and  to  express  consistently  all  sounds 
made  in  the  same  way  by  a  similar  notation  as,  for  example,  the 
fortis  by  an  apostrophe  after  the  letter.  For  purposes-  of  a  gram- 
mar of  the  Maya  dialect  the  following  changes  in  notation  are 
used  in  this  paper:1  * 

1.  The  palatal  surd  is  always  written  k  rather  than  c  as  the  c 
in  Maya  is  always  hard. 

2.  The  velar  surd  is  written  q,  not  k  which  is  commonly  used. 

3.  The  dental  spirant  is  s,  not  x  or  sh,  as  this  is  a  single  sound 
and  should  be  written  by  a  single  letter. 

4.  One  of  the  dental  surds  is  written  ts,  not  ch,  as  the  sound  is 
really  made  by  a  t  before  the  dental  spirant,  tsh  would  be  more 
correct  than  ch. 

5.  The  second  dental  surd  is  written  o,  not  tz  or  ts. 

6.  The  fortis  of  the  alveolar  t,  the  dentals  o  and  ts,  and  the 
labial  p  are  written  with  an  apostrophe  following  the  letter,  t',  o', 
ts',  and  p*  respectively  rather  than  tft,  o,  ch,  and  pp. 

7.  The  s,  written  c  or  z  by  the  Spaniards  is,  of  course,  a  well 
justified  change. 

8.  W  is  added  to  the  alphabet.  This  letter  is  not  found  in  any 
of  the  former  Maya  writings  from  the  fact,  no  doubt,  that  there 

1  In  proper  names,  especially  the  names  of  towns,  and  in  the  terms  given  to 
the  divisions  of  Maya  time  as  shown  in  the  hieroglyphic  writing  no  changes 
have  been  made. 

I  am  well  aware  that  these  changes  in  notation  will  meet  with  adverse  criti- 
cism. I  do  not  cherish  the  hope  that  my  method  will  be  followed  by  other 
workers  in  this  field.  I  have  retained  the  same  general  system  of  notation  as 
that  used  in  my  previous  papers  on  the  Maya  language.  I  have  felt  that,  for 
purposes  of  a  grammar,  it  is  well  to  make  these  changes  as,  with  one  exception, 
the  method  used  here  corresponds  to  that  employed  by  most  other  writers  on 
American  languages.  The  one  exception  is  the  use  of  the  inverted  c  (o)  which 
is  used  by  all  the  ancient  Maya  authorities.  It  is  employed  here,  however, 
for  the  dental  surd  and  o'  for  the  corresponding  fortis  form. 


PHONETICS  23 

is  no  w  in  Spanish.    The  consonant  w  is  clearly  different  from  u, 
a  vowel,  and  should  be  distinguished  from  it. 

It  should  be  noted  that  in  quoting  the  Maya  of  any  of  the 
earlier  authorities  I  have  used,  for  the  purpose  of  uniformity,  the 
method  of  representing  the  sounds  as  here  given  rather  than  that 
used  by  the  writers  themselves. 

Phonetic  Changes.  These  do  not  play  an  important  part  in 
word  composition.  When  the  sign  expressing  past  time,  t,  is  used 
with  the  nominal  pronoun  of  the  1st  person  plural,  k,  in  both  the 
inclusive  and  exclusive  forms,  the  k  is  lost  and  the  t  becomes  a 
f  ortis : 

t-k-puts-ah  becomes  t'-puts-ah. 

In  much  the  same  way,  when  two  k  sounds  come  together  they 
usually  combine  into  the  velar : 

o'ok-k  puts-ah  becomes  o'oq  puts-ah.1 

Syncope,  Synalephe,  and  Apocope.2  Contraction  by  syncope,  syn- 
alephe,  and  apocope  occur  very  frequently.  As  in  English,  so  in 
Maya,  both  the  contracted  and  uncontracted  forms  are  in  good  use. 
When  a  native  is  dictating  texts,  he  is  much  more  inclined  to  use 
the  uncontracted  forms;  whereas,  in  everyday  speech,  he  usually 
employs  the  contracted  forms. 

Syncope  is  noted  in  the  following  places : 

1.  The  transitive  verb  with  a  pronominal  object  may  lose  the 

1  This  root  is  more  commonly  written  puts',  to  pound,  to  bruise,  to  grind 
something:  despachurrar,  machucar,  moler,  etc.  Puts'tuntik,  despachurrar 
con  piedra,  malar  apedreando  con  las  grandes. 

2  Beltran  (§§  129-147)  gives  ten  rules  for  these  changes.  He  writes,  "Porque 
en  este  idioma  no  se  habla  en  todo  como  se  escribe,  ni  se  pronuncian  muchas  voces 
conforme  lo  piden  las  reglas  (y  es  lo  que  causa,  que  algunos  que  lo  hablan  parezcan 
forasteros  6  se  juzgue  que  no  pronuncian  como  deben;  siendo  asi,  que  hablan  segun 
las  reglas  del  arte)  se  advierta  que  es  tan  necesario  el  uso  de  las  sinalefas  y  sinco- 
pas,  que  sin  hipSrbole  se  puede  afirmar,  que  todo  el  ser  y  hermosura  de  esta  lengua 
es  el  uso  de  ellas  y  la  parte  mas  principal  del  arte  es  su  explicaciony  And  again 
(§135),  "La  sincopa  no  es  otra  cosa,  que  comerle  a  algun  vocablo  alguna  silaba,  6 
letra  vocal  6  consonante.  Y  esta  figura  agracia  tanto  at  idioma  Maya  que  sin  ella 
parece  que  sus  vocablos  se  hacen  extranos,  poco  agradables  y  en  su  cadencia  feos. 
En  tanta  manera,  que  puedo  sin  temeridad  decir  que  casi  la  mitad  de  sus  vocablos 
se  sincopan  6  son  sincopables." 


24  GRAMMAR 

i  of  the  ending  -ik  in  the  present  and  the  a  of  the  ending  -ah  in 
the  past: 

tan-in  puts-ik-ets  becomes  tin  puts-k-et§  x 

t-in  kambe-s-ah-ets  becomes  tin  kambe-s-h-ets. 

2.  The  same  vowels  (i  and  a)  of  the  temporal  endings  of  the 
transitive  verb  are  lost  when  the  reflexive  form  of  the  pronoun  is 
used: 

tin  han-t-ik-im-ba  becomes  tin  han-t-k-im-ba 
tin  han-t-ah-im-ba  becomes  tin  han-t-h-im-ba 

3.  All  polysyllabic  transitive  verbs  lose  the  vowel  of  the  tem- 
poral endings  before  the  -es  of  the  2d  person  plural  and  -ob  of  the 
3d  person  plural : 2 

tun  yakun-t-ik-es  becomes  tun  yakun-t-k-es. 
tun  yakun-t-ik-ob  becomes  tun  yakun-t-k-ob. 

4.  Verbs  using  the  suffixes  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul  lose  the  vowel 
of  the  suffix  in  the  present  and  the  future  of  the  intransitive: 

nak-al-in-kah  becomes  nak-1-in-kah. 
he-in  han-al-e  becomes  hen  han-l-e. 

The  verbs  in  -tal,  following  a  final  consonant  in  the  stem,  do  not 
follow  this  rule. 

.5.  In  the  future  of  the  intransitive  with  bin  and  the  suffix  -ak, 
the  a  of  the  suffix  is  lost : 3 

bin  han-ak-en  becomes  bin  han-k-en. 

When  the  stem  ends  in  k  the  whole  suffix  is  lost : 
bin  nak-ak-en  becomes  bin  nak-en. 

6.  In  words  of  two  syllables  containing  two  similar  vowels,  the 
second  vowel  is  lost  when: 

1  Beltran  (§  140)  gives  an  example  of  syncope; 
ten  kambe-s-ik-ets  becoming  ten  kambe-s-ets. 

This  seems  to  me  to  be  incorrect  as  the  contracted  form  has  lost  the  k,  the 
sign  of  the  present.    His  second  example; 

tees  kambe-s-ik-on  becoming  tees  kambe-s-k-on, 
correct  as  it  retains  the  k. 

2  Compare  Lopez,  §  166. 

3  Lopez  (§  165)  gives  the  following: 
bin  takets  for  bin  talakets. 


PHONETICS  25 

(a)  the  plural  sign  is  used : 
taman-ob  becomes  tamn-ob. 

(6)  the  verbal  pronoun  is  used : 

winik-en  becomes  wink-en. 
(c)  the  demonstrative  pronoun  is  used : 

le-winik-a  becomes  le-wink-a. 

7.  When  a  vowel  suffix  is  added  to  a  stem  ending  in  1,  the  vowel 
of  the  stem  is  sometimes  lost: 
tel-o  becomes  tl-o. 

Synalephe  is  much  less  common  than  syncope.  It  is  noted  in  the 
following  places : 

1.  Time  particles  of  the  present,  past,  and  future  attached  to  the 
nominal  pronoun: 

Present,  tan-in  becomes  tin. 

tan-a  becomes  tan,  etc- 
Past,  ti-in  becomes  tin. 
ti-a  becomes  ta,  etc. 
o'ok-in  becomes  o'in. 
o'ok-a  becomes  o'a,  etc. 
Future,  he-in  becomes  hen. 

he-a  becomes  ha,  etc. 

2.  The  negative  ma  and  the  nominal  pronoun: 
ma-in  becomes  min. 

3.  Ti  and  some  other  prepositions  and  the  nominal  pronoun:  * 
ti-in  watots  becomes  tin  watots. 

Apocope.    This  is  not  uncommon  in  everyday  speech.    Among 
the  places  where  it  may  be  found,  the  following  are  to  be  noted: 

1.  The  final  -e,  the  sign  of  the  future  of  the  transitive  with  bin, 
is  sometimes  lost  when  followed  by  a  noun : 

bin  in  han-t-e  wa  becomes  bin  in  han-t  wa. 

2.  The  final  -e  of  the  future  is  usually  lost  when  the  form  in  bin 
takes  a  pronominal  object: 

bin  in  yakun-t-e-ets  becomes  bin  in  yakun-t-ets. 

1  Beltran  (§§  132,  133)  makes  a  distinction  in  the  contraction  of  ti  meaning 
"  in  "  and  ti  meaning  "  to  or  for."     Compare  also  Lopez,  §  164. 


26  GRAMMAR 

3.  The  final  -e,  the  sign  of  the  imperative  with  transitive  verbs, 
is  lost  when  followed  by  a  pronoun  or  a  particle  beginning  with  a 
vowel : 

oik-e  a-yum  becomes  oik  a-yum. 

4.  The  final  -1  of  the  suffix  -il  is  lost  when  an  adverb  or  negative 
is  used : 

ma  sak-en-i  for  ma  sak-en-il. 

Vocalic  harmony.  This  is  observed  in  many  different  sets  of 
suffixes  especially  those  in  -1,  the  vowel  of  the  suffix  agreeing  with 
that  of  the  stem: 

han-al,  wen-el,  tip'-il,  top-ol,  quts-ul. 

There  seems,  however,  to  be  a  strong  tendency  to  prefer  the 
suffix  -al  even  when  the  vowel  of  the  stem  is  not  a. 

Avoidance  of  hiatus.  In  certain  suffixes  beginning  with  a  vowel, 
when  the  stem  ends  in  a  vowel,  the  hiatus  is  sometimes  avoided  by 
adding  a  b  sound.  This  is  seen  in  some  cases  in  the  plural  suffix 
-ob  in  which  case  there  may  be  a  certain  harmony  between  the 
consonant  of  the  suffix  and  the  consonant  added. 

An  h  sound  is  also  sometimes  added  in  order  to  avoid  an  hiatus 
between  two  vowel  sounds: 

meya-h-en,  I  am  a  workman. 

This  should  not  be  confused  with  the  hi,  the  sign  of  the  past: 
meya-hi-en,  1  was  a  workman. 

Semi-vowels.  These  are  added  both  to  nominal  and  verbal  stems 
beginning  with  a  vowel.  Whatever  the  previous  history  of  these 
sounds  may  have  been  they  now  show  a  syntactic  relation  as  we  find 
the  change  of  w  and  y  made,  not  according  to  the  initial  vowel,  but 
rather  in  relation  to  the  person  of  the  verb  or  of  the  nominal 
pronoun. 

Root,  al,  to  see. 

tin  w-al-ik,  I  see  it  (contraction  of  tan-in  w-al-ik). 

tan  w-al-ik,  you  see  it  (contraction  of  tan  a-w-al-ik). 

tun  y-al-ik,  he  sees  it  (contracted  to  t-i-al-ik). 

tank  al-ik,  we  see  it. 

tan  wal-ik-es,  you  see  it. 

tun  y-al-ik-ob,  they  see  it  (contracted  to  t-i-al-ik-ob). 


PHONETICS  27 

It  will  be  noted  that  w  is  added  in  the  first  person  singular  and  the 
second  person  singular  and  plural  and  y  in  the  third  person  sin- 
gular and  plural.   No  vowel  is  added  in  the  first  person  plural. 

Lacandone  Dialect.  Certain  simple  phonetic  changes  and  a  less 
extended  use  of  contraction  alone  distinguish  the  dialect  spoken 
by  the  Lacandones  from  that  used  by  the  Mayas  of  Yucatan. 
Final  1  in  stems  appears  as  n  in  the  Lacandone,  wen-el  changing 
to  wen-en.  Certain  stems  with  final  n  in  the  Maya  change  to  m 
in  the  dialect  of  the  Lacandone.  The  great  distinguishing  mark, 
however,  between  the  Maya  as  spoken  around  Valladolid,  Yucatan, 
and  that  spoken  in  Chiapas  is  the  frequent  use  of  contraction  among 
the  people  in  the  former  territory.  Forms  which  one  is  unable  to 
analyze  among  the  Mayas  appear  separated  into  their  component 
parts  in  the  dialect  spoken  by  the  Lacandones.  This  is  especially 
to  be  noted  in  the  time  particles  used  with  the  nominal  pronoun. 
I  shall  limit  myself  hereafter  entirely  to  the  language  used  in 
Yucatan,  leaving  it  to  be  understood  that  that  spoken  by  the 
Lacandones  is  essentially  the  same  with  the  exceptions  which 
have  just  been  noted. 

Character  of  Stem.  Stems  are  almost  entirely  monosyllabic 
and  consist  normally  of  consonant,  vowel,  consonant.  Several  are 
made  up  only  of  vowel  and  consonant,  and  a  smaller  number  of 
consonant  and  vowel. 

Accent.  This  is  not  marked.  It  is  in  part  dependent  upon  the 
length  of  the  vowel.  Contracted  syllables  usually  seem  to  have 
greater  stress  of  voice  laid  upon  them.  In  spite  of  some  authorities 
to  the  contrary,  there  seem  to  be  few  cases  where  a  difference  in 
accent  occasions  a  difference  in  the  meaning  of  the  form.1 

The  accent  in  all  the  Lacandone  chants  is  much  more  noticeable 
than  in  the  ordinary  speech.  There  is  often  a  definite  rhythm  and 
in  the  slow  chants  this  is  very  marked.2   Syllables  composed  of  the 

1  1  was  unable  to  find  the  distinction  in  accent  made  by  Beltran  (§  98)  be- 
tween the  infinitive  of  certain  verbs  in  -1  and  the  past  participle; 

lub-ul,  to  fall  and  lub-ul,  a  thing  fallen, 
lik-il,  to  raise  and  lik-il,  a  thing  raised. 

2  Tozzer,  1907,  p.  131  and  Chant  no.  17. 


28  GRAMMAR 

vowel  i  or  ki  are  often  added  at  the  end  of  words  to  fill  out  a  cer- 
tain measure.  These  added  sounds  seem  to  affect  the  meaning  in 
no  way.1  The  rhythm  is  very  irregular  and  it  is  impossible  to  as- 
certain the  general  scheme  of  long  and  short  syllables. 

GRAMMATICAL  PROCESSES 

Enumeration. 

1.  Word  composition. 

2.  Affixes, 
(a)  Prefix. 
(6)  Suffix. 

3.  Reduplication. 

4.  Word  order. 

Word  Composition.  An  idea  is  expressed  in  Maya  either  by  a 
single  stem,  usually  monosyllabic,  to  which  one  or  more  particles 
are  affixed,  or  by  the  juxtaposition  of  two  stems  modified  and  re- 
stricted by  one  or  more  prefixes,  suffixes,  or  both.  In  the  latter 
case  each  stem  remains  phonetically  a  unit  and  each  is  separated 
from  the  other  by  an  hiatus.  Grammatically,  however,  there  is 
a  unity  existing  between  the  two.  The  most  important  case  of 
word  composition  is  that  of  the  transitive  verb  with  its  object. 
So  strong  is  this  unity  that  the  action  of  the  verb  as  related  to  its 
specific  object  is  taken  as  a  whole  and  is  considered  as  intransitive 
in  sense  and  thus  follows  the  intransitive  in  form.  It  is  possible  to 
join  all  transitive  verbs  with  their  objects  in  this  way  but  only 
those  expressing  some  common  and  natural  act  in  relation  to  the 
object  are  usually  found  in  the  intransitive  form  as  owe-money, 
chop-wood,  etc. 

Affixes.  These  are  very  common  in  Maya  and  are  used  to  ex- 
press practically  all  the  grammatical  ideas.  Phonetically  there  is 
much  closer  unity  between  the  root  and  its  affixes  than  between 
two  juxtaposed  roots.    In  the  former  case  certain  phonetic  changes 

1  Compare  in  this  connection  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  144)  who  writes,  "No 
obstante,  las  particular  compositivas  que  no  modifican  el  sentido,  son  muchisimas, 
las  cuales,  efictivamente,  solo  contribuyen  a  la  variedad  de  las  formas  de  la  ex- 
presion  constituyendo  asi,  como  el  indicado  padre  Beltran  dice,  'particulas  ador- 
nativas '  que  facilitan  giros  de  estilo  de  que  resulta  un  lenguaje  elegante  y  artistico 
cuando  se  habla  bien  el  idioma." 


GRAMMATICAL  PROCESSES  29 

tend  to  strengthen  this  unity.  An  intimate  relation  is  also  brought 
about  in  some  cases  between  the  suffix  and  the  stem  by  vocalic 
harmony.  It  is  often  difficult  to  draw  a  line  between  true  word 
composition  and  prefixing  and  suffixing.  I  have  placed  under 
Composition  all  forms  made  up  of  words  which  can  stand  alone  and 
thus  can  be  considered  as  true  words  in  contrast  to  the  affixes 
which  cannot  appear  alone.  There  are,  no  doubt,  many  of  the 
latter  which  were  once  words.  Tan,  for  example,  which  is  given 
here  as  a  particle  is  shown  by  Perez  to  be  an  impersonal  verb. 

Reduplication.  This  is  not  especially  common  in  Maya  and 
is  found  only  in  a  limited  number  of  cases. 

Word  Order.  This  does  not  play  a  great  part  in  expressing 
syntactical  relations. 

IDEAS  EXPRESSED  BY  THE  GRAMMATICAL 
PROCESSES 

Word  Composition.   This  is  employed  in  the  following  forms : 

1.  Habitual  action.  When  a  verb  and  its  object  expresses  this 
idea  the  two  form  a  unit  and  the  form  becomes  intransitive  in  the 
past  tense : 

so[t]-tse-n-ah-en,  I  cut  wood. 

This  is  composed  of  the  root,  sot,  to  cut,  and  tse,  wood.  The  idea 
of  cutting  wood  is  regarded  as  a  verb  in  itself. 

2.  Agent.  This  is  sometimes  expressed  by  word  composition  in 
addition  to  the  usual  sign  for  the  agent,  t. 

tin  tak-ok-t-ik,  I  am  bending  something  with  my  foot  (ok). 

3.  Gender.  In  names  of  animals  and,  in  a  few  cases,  in  othei 
nouns: 

Sibal  ke,  male  deer, 
ts'upul  ke,  female  deer. 

4.  Indefinite  time  in  the  future.  This  is  expressed  by  the  root  of 
the  verb  binel,  "  to  go,"  in  both  the  intransitive  and  transitive 
verb: 

bin  nak-ak-en,  1  am  going  to  climb. 
.  bin  a  hant  wa-e,  you  are  going  to  eat  the  tortilla.1 

1  This  also  shows  a  form  of  word  composition  as  the  object  is  inserted  be- 
tween the  root  of  the  verb  and  the  sign  of  the  future,  -e. 


30  GRAMMAR 

5.  Action  just  completed.    This  is  shown  by  the  root  o'ok,  to 
finish : 

o'a  puts-h-en  (o'ok-a  puts-ah-en),  you  have  just  finished  hitting  me. 

6.  Optative.   This  is  made  by  the  root  of  the  verb  qat,  to  desire, 
in  qat  bin  (el),  1  desire  to  go,  I  may  go. 

The  Suffix.    This  is  found  to  express  the  following  relations 
and  ideas : 

1.  Plurality.    In  most  nouns,  the  3d  person  of  the  nominal  pro- 
noun, and  in  some  adjectives,  by  -ob : 

na,  house,  na-ob,  houses. 

u-na,  his  house,  u-na-ob,  their  house  or  his  houses. 

2.  Plurality.   In  the  2d  person  of  the  nominal  pronoun  by  -es: 
a-na,  your  house,  a-na-e§,  your  (more  than  one)  house. 

3.  Plurality  in  some  adjectives.    By  -ak: 
kan-ak  tsupal-al,  tall  girls. 

4.  Plurality  in  some  nouns.   By  -al. 

tsupal,  a  girl, 
tsupal-al,  girls. 

5.  Exclusion  of  the  person  spoken  to.     In  nominal  pronoun  by 
-on  for  dual  and  -on-es  for  plural: 

k-na-on,  our  (his  and  my  house). 
k-na-on-e§,  our  (their  and  my  house). 

6.  Inclusion  of  person  spoken  to.   In  plural  by  -es: 
k-na-es,  our  (your  and  my)  house. 

7.  Verbal  pronoun,   -en,  -ets,  etc.,  when  used  as  subject  or  ob- 
ject of  verbs  and  as  the  auxiliary,  to  be: 

puts-en,  1  hit,  I  am, a  hitter. 

tan  puts-ik-en,  you  are  hitting  me. 

winik-en,  1  am  a  man.  P1 

8.  Demonstrative  pronoun,   -a,  -o,  and  -u  with  the  prefix  le-: 

le  winik-a,  this  man  here. 

le  winik-o,  that  man  there. 

le  winik-e,  that  man  at  a  distance. 

9.  Reflexive  pronoun.    By-ba: 

tin  puts-im-ba  (puts-ik-in-ba)  1  am  hitting  myself. 


IDEAS  EXPRESSED  31 

10.  Abstract  nouns.    By-il: 
kohan-il,  sickness. 

11.  Collective  nouns.    By-il: 
u-yoooil-il,  the  poor. 

12.  Attributive  relationship.     By-il: 
u  tunit§-il  qaq,  the  stone  of  the  fire. 

13.  Gentilitious  relationship.     By  -il : 
Ho-il,  a  Meridano. 

14.  Habituality.     By  -tal : 
kohan-tal,  a  sickly  man. 

15.  Comparative  degree.     By-il: 

uo  na,  a  good  house, 
uo-il  na,  a  better  house. 

16.  Present  time  in  transitive  verb.    By  -ik : 
tin  o'on-ik,  1  am  shooting  something. 

17.  Present  time  in  intransitive  verb  of  motion.    By  -kah : 
nak-1-in-kah  (nak-al-in-kah)  1  am  climbing. 

18.  Future  time  in  intransitive  and  transitive  verbs.     By  -e : 

hen  o'on-e,  1  shall  shoot. 

hen  o'on-ik-e,  1  shall  shoot  something. 

19.  Future  time  in  verbs  of  Class  IV.    By  -tsal  or  -tal: 
hen  winik-t§al-e,  1  shall  become  a  man. 

20.  Indefinite  future  in  intransitive  verbs.    By  ak  with  stem  bin: 
bin  nak-ak-en,  1  am  going  to  climb. 

21.  Past  time  in  intransitive  and  transitive  verbs  of  Classes  II,  III, 
IV.    By  -ah  or  h: 

tin  o'on-ah,  1  shot  something. 
tsi-1-ah-en  (tsl-tal-ah-en)  1  lay  down. 
o'on-(n)  ah-en,  I  shot. 
keel-h-en,  1  was  cold. 

22.  Distant  past  in  transitive  verb.    By  ma-ah : 
tin  puts-m-ah,  1  hit  something  a  long  time  ago. 

23.  Causal  verbs  (Class  I  b).    By  s: 

tin  kim-s-ik,  1  kill  something,  1  cause  something  to  die. 


32  GRAMMAR 

24.  Agent  (Class  III  b).    By  t: 

tin  mis-t-ik,  1  am  sweeping  or  1  do  something  with  a  broom. 

25.  Effect  effraction  of  verb  on  subject.  In  some  cases  this  serves 
to  express  a  passive  relationship.   By  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul : 

tin  lub-ul,  1  am  falling  or  my  being  affected  by  a  fall. 

26.  Passive  relationship,  past  tense.    By  b  or  n: 
nao-s-ah-b-en,  1  was  approached, 
o'on-ah-n-en,  1  was  shot. 

27.  Imperative.    Intransitive  by  -en,  transitive  by  -e : 
o'on-en,  shoot! 

o'on-e,  shoot  something! 

28.  Inchoative  or  Inceptive  verbs  and  verbs  of  Class  II.  By  -tal  or 
-hal: 

tin  winik-tal,  I  am  becoming  a  man. 

29.  Reflexive  verbs.    By-pahal: 
tun  tsun-pahal,  it  begins  itself. 

30.  Adverbs.  When  the  verbal  pronoun  is  used  and  the  adverb 
precedes  the  verb,  the  verb  takes  the  suffix  -il: 

tsits  simbal-n-ah-il-en,  1  walked  rapidly." 

31.  Manner  of  action.  When  this  is  expressed  by  prefix  be,  thus, 
the  verbal  form  takes  -il,  and  the  demonstrative  suffixes  -a,  -e,  or 
-o: 

be  tal-il-en-a,  in  this  way,  1  came. 

32.  Numeral  classifiers  (see  p.  103). 

The  Prefix.  This  is  found  to  express  the  following  relations 
and  ideas: 

1.  Gender  of  the  "  Nomen  actorish   H-  for  male,  s-  for  female: 

H-men,  a  shaman,  literally,  one  who  knows, 
s-men,  a  female  shaman. 

2.  Time,  attached  to  the  nominal  pronoun,  tan  for  present,  t  for 
past,  and  he  for  future: 

tan-in  (tin)  o'on-ik,  1  am  shooting  something. 

t-in  o'on-ah,  ]  shot  something. 

hen  (he-in)  o'on-ik-e,  1  shall  shoot  something. 

3.  Time,  used  with  the  intransitive  verb  in  the  past.    By  t: 
t-puts-en,  I  hit  or  performed  the  act  of  hitting. 


IDEAS  EXPRESSED  33 

4.  Nominal  pronoun.  When  used  as  subject  of  the  verb  of  as 
the  possessive: 

tin  (tan-in)  puts-ik,  1  am  hitting  something. 
Juan,  u  huun,  John,  his  book. 

5.  The  semi-vowels.  When  used  with  the  nominal  pronoun  with 
vowel  stems.    These  have  a  phonetic  and  syntactical  history  (p. 

26): 

6.  Demonstrative,    le-  with  the  suffixes  -a,  -o,  -e : 
le-winik-a,  this  man  here. 

7.  Relative  relationship.    By  lik  or  likil: 

likil  in  wen-el  the  object  in  which  1  sleep,  my  hammock. 

8.  Adverbial  relationships.  Such  as  those  indicating  repetition 
with  ka,  totality  with  la,  and  a  large  number  of  others: 

tin  ka-bin,  1  come  again. 

tin  la-wuk-ik,  1  am  drinking  all  of  it. 

9.  Manner  or  state.  By  be  and  the  suffix  -il  with  the  demon- 
stratives -a,  -e,  -o : 

be-tal-il-en-o,  in  that  way,  1  came. 

10.  Direction  of  motion,  pai,  motion  towards,  pilis,  motion  away, 
etc.: 

tin-pai-bala-ok-t-ik,  1  am  rolling  something  towards  me  with  the  foot. 

11.  Negative.  -By  ma: 

m-in  (ma-in)  qati,  1  do  not  wish  to. 

12.  Prepositions  (see  p.  107). 

t-in  na,  in  my  house. 

yoqol  in  na,  above  my  house. 

Reduplication.  This  is  syllabic  in  form.  The  process  seems  to 
have  no  effect  upon  the  vowel  of  the  stem.  It  is  employed  to  ex- 
press the  following  relations  and  ideas : 

1.  Distant  past  in  the  intransitive  verb: 
simbal-n-ah-ah-n-en,  1  ran  a  long  time  ago. 

2.  Iterative  or  frequentative  verbs: 

tin  bi-bi  qab,  1  tap  with  my  fingers  frequently. 

3.  Plural  with  some  adjectives: 
ta-tas  be-ob,  smooth  roads. 


34  GRAMMAR 

4.  Plural  with  some  participles: 1 
tsak,  to  cut  with  a  blow, 
tsak-an,  a  thing  cut. 
tsak-an-tsak,  things  cut. 

5.  Diminutive  with  nouns  and  adjectives:  - 

kah,  pueblo.  sa-sak,  medio  bianco. 

ka-kah,  small  pueblos.  noh  or  nohots,  great. 

sak,  white.  no-noh  or  no-nohots,  grandecillo. 

Word  order.  In  general  the  word  order  does  not  differ  greatly 
from  that  in  English.  The  Maya,  as  spoken  at  the  present  time, 
generally  follows  the  word  order  of  Spanish.  One  exception  to  this 
rule  is  to  be  noted,  namely,  the  subject  of  the  verb  when  expressed 
by  a  noun  follows  the  verb : 3 

u  kim-s-ah  Juan  Pedro,  Peter  killed  John. 

u  luum  kah-l-ik  in  yum,  good  is  the  land  in  which  my  father  lives. 

SYNTAX 

The  Noun 

Fundamental  place  in  Language.  The  noun  should  be  con- 
sidered first  as  it  plays  a  far  greater  part  in  the  development  of  the 
language  than  has  been  supposed  in  the  past.  The  important  place 
has  always  been  given  to  the  verb.4  It  is  not  true  to  say  that  all 
verbs  were  originally  nouns  but  the  relation  between  the  verb  and 
the  noun  is  very  intimate.  There  are  a  far  greater  number  of  verbs 
made  directly  from  nouns  than  there  are  nouns  from  verbs.5 

1  Compare  Seler,  p.  111. 

2  Beltran  (§  128)  writes,  "Pero  se  ha  de  notar  tambien,  que  no  siempre  esta 
reduplication  significa  el  frecuente  ejertitio  del  verbo  6  nombre,  porque  d  veces  con 
ella  se  minora  su  signification,  v.g.:  ts'uhuk,  lo  dulce,  ts'uts'uhuk,  lo  que  no  estd 
dulce,  ts'ots',  lo  salado,  ts'ots'ots',  lo  poco  salado:  tsokow,  lo  caliente,  tsotsokow, 
lo  poco  caliente  6  lo  tibio.  Ay  otros  vocablos  que  aunque  tienen  reduplication  no 
son  frecuentativos,  porque  ab  origine  se  pusieron  para  significar  aquella  cosa  sin 
frecuentia,  v.g.:  o'uo'uki,  lo  blando,  tsatsak,  lo  encarnado,  sasak,  lo  bianco  &c." 

For  other  forms  using  reduplication,  see  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  150-156. 

3  Compare  Seler,  p.  89,  120. 

4  Seler  writes  (p.  66)  "denn  der  Kern  der  ganzen  Sprache  (el  bianco  de  este 
idioma)  liegt,  wie  der  Grammatiker  Beltran  mit  Recht  bemerkt,  in  dem  Verbum. 
Wer  das  Verbum  versteht,  versteht  die  Sprache." 

6  Seler  (p.  89)  explains  all  transitive  verbs  with  objects  as  "  nominal  themes 
of  passive  significance." 


THE  NOUN  35 

Stems  which  seem  to  occupy  this  half-way  position  have  been 
called  neutral  (Class  III) : 

From  los,  fist,  tin  (tan-in)  los-ik,  1  am  hitting  something  with  my  fist, 
literally,  present  time  my  fisting  it  (present  time). 

The  essentially  nominal  character  of  the  Maya  is  seen  not  only  in 
the  verbal  stems  made  directly  from  nouns  but  also  in  words  de- 
noting action  or  state  and  the  effect  of  this  action  or  state  on  the 
subject  (Class  I).  This  class  of  verbs  are  really  predicated  nouns. 
The  objective  pronoun  often  conveys  the  verbal  idea. 
Directly  from  nouns  we  have : 

From  mis,  a  broom;  mis-en,  1  am  a  sweeper,  literally  a  broomer;  mis-n- 

ah-en,  1  was  a  sweeper,  or  1  swept. 
From  o'ib,  writing;  o'ib-en,  1  am  a  writer. 

From  verbs  of  action  or  state, 

From  kimi,  death;  tin  kim-il,  1  am  dying,  or  my  being  affected  by  death; 
tin  kim-s-ik,  1  am  causing  something  to  die,  or  my  killing  something; 
kim-en,  1  died;  tin  kim-s-il,  1  am  being  caused  to  die,  or  my  being 
killed. 

Kim-il  is  the  stem  of  the  intransitive,  present,  passive  relation- 
ship, kim-s-il  of  the  intransitive,  present,  passive,  and  kim-en,  the 
past  of  the  intransitive,  active,  with  the  verbal  pronoun.  As  will 
be  .pointed  out  later  (p.  64),  the  distinction  made  in  Spanish  be- 
tween the  active  and  passive  voices  is  not  found  in  Maya. 

Another  feature  of  the  nominal  character  of  Maya  is  seen  in  the 
fact  that  the  nominal  pronoun  used  with  predicative  verbal  ex- 
pressions is  fundamentally  a  nominal  expression  showing  possessive 
relationship : 1 

tin  mis-t-ik,  1  am  sweeping,  literally,  my  brooming  something. 

Incorporation  in  Verb.  A  noun,  the  object  of  a  transitive 
verb,  may  become  incorporated  in  the  verb  and  the  unity  of  the 
two  made  so  close  that  the  verb  passes  from  the  form  of  the 
transitive  with  its  object  to  an  intransitive  in  form.  This  is  found 
especially  in  words  whose  meanings  express  some  habitual  action  as 
chop- wood,  carry-water,  spend-money,  etc: 

tin  tsa-ik  ha,  1  am  carrying  water,  less  common,  tsa-ha-in-ka, 

tin  tsa-ah  ha  or  tsa-ha-n-ah-en,  1  carried  water. 

hen  tsa-ik  ha-e  or  bin  tsa-ha-n-ak-en,  1  shall  carry  water. 

1  Compare  Seler,  p.  66. 


36  GRAMMAR 

The  transitive  form  is  usually  found  in  the  present  and  future 
tenses  and  the  intransitive  in  the  past.1 

Incorporation  to  express  the  agent.  Another  type  of  incorporation 
is  seen  when  the  noun  is  used  to  denote  the  agent  by  which  the 
action  of  the  verb  is  accomplished : 2 

tin  pai-bala-ok-t-ik,  1  am  rolling  something  towards  me  with  the  foot  (ok) . 

tin  wuo'-tse-t-ik,  1  am  bending  something  with  a  stick  (tse). 

tin  wop-tunits-t-ik,  1  am  breaking  something  with  a  stone  (tunits). 

Classification.  There  is  no  classification  of  nouns  with  the  ex- 
ception of  those  used  with  numerals  where  there  is  a  broad  division 
of  those  animate  and  inanimate  together  with  many  minor  classes 
(p.  103). 

Abstract  Nouns.  These  are  made  by  adding  the  suffix  -il  to 
the  stem : 3 

kohan-il,  sickness. 
kimako-il,  happiness. 
noh-il,  greatness. 

Collective  Nouns.  There  is  a  class  of  collective  nouns  made 
from  the  preceding  abstract  forms  by  prefixing  the  possessive  pro- 
noun of  the  3d  person  singular.  The  root  in  -1  is  used  when  verbs 
are  thus  used : 

u-kohan-il,  the  sick. 

u-y-oooil-il,  the  poor. 

u-kim[i]l-il,  the  dead. 

Gender.  No  gender  is  expressed  with  one  exception.  In  the 
"nomen  actoris"  male  and  female  are  shown  by  the  prefixes  H,  for 
male,  and  s,  for  female.4  The  palatal  spirant  is  rather  difficult  to 
pronounce  correctly.     It  is  a  weak  breathing  and,  in  many  cases, 

1  Beltran  (§  58)  notes  the  incorporation  of  the  object  in  this  form  and  also 
the  fact  that  the  form  is  made  intransitive  in  the  past  tense.  He  finds  fault 
with  San  Buenaventura  who  (fol.  6  ob.)  makes  the  past  in  ni  (3d  person)  and 
not  in  n-ah. 

2  Compare  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  324)  who  writes,  "Hay  verbos  que  a  mas  del 
acto,  expresan  el  objecto  con  que  se  lleva  a  cabo": 

mas-tun-te,  machdcalo  con  piedra. 
peo'-tun-te,  apesgalo  con  piedra. 
peo'-qab-te,  apesgalo  con  la  mono. 

3  Compare  Seler,  p.  113. 

4  Beltran  (§  23)  gives  the  particles  as  ah  and  is  (ix)  but  he  adds  that  the 


THE  NOUN  37 

passes  almost  unobserved.    It  is  the  only  case  where  this  sound  is 
found : 

H-men,  the  shaman,  literally,  one  who  knows. 

s-men,  the  female  shaman. 

H-ooqot,  the  male  dancer.       ft  *      a  k  l<  7<>  -fc 

s-ooqot,  the  female  dancer. 

Gender  is  also  shown,  especially  in  the  names  of  animals,  by 
word  composition  using  the  words  sibil,  male,  and  ts'upul,  female. 
These  forms  are  also  used  in  some  cases  with  words  denoting  human 
beings : l 

sibil-pal,  boy.  ts'upul-pal,  girl. 

Number.  The  singular  and  plural  alone  are  found  in  the  noun. 
The  plural  ending  is  usually  -ob  as  seen  in  the  third  person  of  the 
verb: 

na,  house.  na-ob,  houses. 

When  a  noun  ends  in  -al,  plurality  is  shown  by  a  duplication  of 

the  last  syllable: 

ts'upal,  girl. 

ts'upal-al,  contracted  to  ts'upl-al,  girls. 

The  usual  plural  ending,  -ob  may  be  used  in  these  forms  in  addi- 
tion to  the  -al : 2 
ts'upal-al-ob. 

Case.    There  is  no  case  expressed  with  nouns.3 

more  elegant  (mas  garbosamente)  forms  are  h  and  s  (x).    San  Buenaventura 
and  Coronel  do  not  mention  the  feminine  prefix  s.   Compare  Seler,  p.  100. 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  221)  finds  fault  with  Beltran  for  calling  these  particles 
"articulos."  He  writes  (p.  221)  "No  determinan  nunca  equivaliendo  a  el,  un; 
de  modo  que  si  se  les  quiere  llamar  articulos  por  darles  algun  nombre  como  las 
demds  partes  de  la  oracion,  son  articulos  sui  g&neris  cuyo  oficio  apenas  se  asemeja 
en  algo  al  de  los  castellanos." 

1  1  failed  to  find  the  term  in  -ton  given  by  Lopez  (§  27)  to  indicate  the  mas- 
culine sex  of  animals; 

ton  wakas,  the  bull.  ton  peq,  the  dog. 

2  Lopez  (§  23)  does  not  recognize  the  uncontracted  form  except  when  the 
regular  plural  ending,  ob,  is  used  in  addition  to  -al. 

3  Beltran  (§  18)  states  that  there  is  no  sign  for  the  nominative  and  accusa- 
tive. He  gives  the  genitive  of  possession  as  u  but  this  is  really  the  possessive 
pronoun,  3d  person.  He  gives  a  dative  in  ti  or  tial,  a  vocative  in  e,  or  bee, 
and  ablatives  in  oqlal,  men  or  menel,  ti,  and  yetel.  These  are  not  true  cases  as 
the  dative,  vocative,  and  ablative  relations  are  expressed  by  prepositional 
particles. 


38  GRAMMAR 

The  different  relationships  such  as  instrument,  location,  etc.  are 
expressed  by  adverbial  prepositions.  The  phonetic  connection  be- 
tween these  suffixes  and  the  words  they  modify  is  weak.  They 
are  considered  under  prepositions  (p.  107).  The  indirect  object  is 
sometimes  expressed  by  the  particle  t: 
tin  wal-ah-t-ets,  1  told  something  to  you. 

Attributive  Relationship.  This  is  expressed  by  means  of  the 
suffix  -il : 1 

u  tunit§-il  qaq,  the  stone  of  the  fire,  or,  the  fire,  its  stone. 

u  o'on-il  ke,  the  gun  for  deer. 

u  na-il  winik,  the  house  for  the  men. 

u  ha-il  o'onot,  the  water  of  the  cenote. 

Gentilitious  Relationship.   This  is  shown  by  the  suffix  -il: 
Ho-iL,  a  Meridano,  a  man  from  Merida  (Ho). 
Saki-il,  Sak-il,  a  man  from  Valladolid  (Saki). 

Habituality.  Nouns  denoting  accustomed  condition  or  state 
are  made  from  other  nouns  by  means  of  the  suffix  -tal.  There  is 
some  reason  to  believe  that  this  -tal  is  the  same  suffix  as  that 
seen  in  verbs  of  Class  II  and  seen  again  in  the  inchoative  verb: 

kohan,  a  sick  man,  kohan-tal,  a  sickly  man. 

kalan,  a  drunken  man,  kalan-tal,  a  drunkard. 

Diminutives.  This  idea  in  nouns  and  adjectives  may  be  ex- 
pressed by  reduplication: 

kah,  pueblo.  ka-kah,  small  pueblo. 

A  more  common  form  of  diminutives  with  nouns  is  the  use  of  the 
adjective  tsan,  little; 2 
t§an  peq,  small  dog. 

THE  PRONOUN3 

The  pronominal  forms  are  added  directly  to  the  root-stem. 
They  do  not  lose  their  identity  when  thus  added  but  they  are  often 

1  Compare  Seler  (p.  78,  113)  where  he  considers  the  attributive  relation- 
ship with  adjective  forms  and  also  with  nouns. 

San  Buenaventura  (fol.  28  ob.)  mentions  this  use  of  -il  as  follows;  "no  propia 
de  persona,  sino  que  por  razon  de  algun  oficio  se  apropia  la  cosa." 

2  Compare  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  161-162. 

3  A  portion  of  the  material  contained  in  this  section  was  published  as 
"Some  notes  on  the  Maya  Pronoun"  in  Boas  Anniversary  Volume,  New  York, 
1906,  p.  85-88. 


Verbal  Pronoun 

Nominal  Pronoun 

-en 

in- 

-et§ 

a- 

---(i) 

u- 

-on 

k- 

-on 

k--on 

-ones 

k--es 

-ones 

k-  -ones 

-es 

a--es 

-ob 

u-  -ob 

THE  PRONOUN  39 

phonetically  changed.    The  pronouns  do  not  occur  as  individual 
words  with  one  exception  (p.  42). 

Forms  of  the  Pronoun.  There  are  two  forms  of  the  pronoun, 
the  real  pronoun  called  " verbal"  and  used  as  a  suffix  and  the  pos- 
sessive pronoun  called  "  nominal "  and  used  as  a  prefix.  These 
forms  are  as  follows: x 

Singular 

1st  person, 

2d  person, 

3d  person, 
Dual 

1st  person,  inclusive, 
exclusive, 
Plural 

1st  person,  inclusive, 
exclusive, 

2d  person, 

3d  person, 

Distinctive  Features.  The  Maya  pronoun  presents  some  dis- 
tinctive features.  Among  these  is  the  use  of  two  different  sets  of 
pronouns  for  active  or  transitive  verbs  and  neutral  or  intransitive 

1  Beltran  (§§  32-47)  gives  the  following  pronouns: 
1.  Demonstrative  2.  Demonstrative  3.  Mixed 

ten  toon  en  on  in  ka 

tet§  te-  -es  ets  es  a  a-  -es 

lai  lo-  -ob  lailo  ob  u  u-  -ob 

4.  Mixed  with  vowel  stems      *         5.  Reciprocal 

w  ka  inba  kaba 

aw  aw-  -es  aba  aba-  -es 

y  y-  -ob  uba  uba-  -ob 

It  will  be  seen  that  these  five  narrow  down  to  the  two  given  here,  the  two 
Demonstratives  being  the  verbal  pronoun  and  the  verbal  pronoun  compounded 
with  t,  the  two  Mixed  being  the  nominal  pronoun  with  consonant  and  vowel 
stems  and  the  Reciprocal  being  the  nominal  compounded  with  ba.  He  makes 
a  distinction  (§  61)  in  the  nominal  pronoun  in  the  3d  person  singular  between 
that  used  in  the  present  tense  where  he  uses  lai  and  in  the  preterit  and  future 
where  he  has  the  usual  form,  u; 
lai  kambesik 
u  kambesah 

bin  u  kambes 
1  see  no  reason  for  this  change  which  he  calls  "  mi  nueva  correccion, " 


40  GRAMMAR 

forms.  There  is  an  irregularity  of  usage  of  the  two  sets  of  pronouns 
dependent,  in  many  cases,  upon  tense.  Another  uncommon  feature 
is  the  association  of  forms  characterizing  different  types  of  verbs. 

Number.  In  both  pronouns  there  is  a  singular,  dual,  and  plural.1 
In  actual  conversation  the  distinction  between  the  dual  and  plural 
is  very  seldom  made. 

When  the  verbal  pronoun  is  used  as  an  object  there  is  no  form 
to  express  the  3d  person  singular.  When  this  form  is  used  as  the 
subject  of  an  intransitive  verb  in  the  past  tenses  an  i  is  used  to 
express  the  3d  person. 

kim-en,  1  died.  kim-i,  he  died. 

A  demonstrative  (leti  or  leeti)  is  sometimes  used  when  special 
emphasis  is  laid  upon  the  3d  person.2 

Persons  Expressed.  In  the  nominal  pronoun  all  three  persons 
are  expressed.  The  inclusive  and  exclusive  forms  of  the  dual  and 
plural  of  the  verbal  pronoun  are  not  differentiated  whereas  in  the 
nominal  pronoun  there  are  different  forms  marking  the  inclusion 
or  the  exclusion  of  the  person  addressed :  —  we,  meaning  you  and 
I,  or  we,  meaning  he  and  I.  As  in  the  case  with  the  dual  and  plural 
the  distinction  between  the  inclusive  and  exclusive  forms  is  made 
very  seldom  in  actual  conversation.3 

It  will  be  noted  that  in  the  plural  of  the  nominal  pronoun  both 
a  prefix  and  a  suffix  are  used  and  that  the  second  and  third  persons 
plural  have  the  same  form  prefixed  as  that  of  the  singular  with  the 

1  Beltran  (§§  225-227)  notes  the  dual  and  pkfral  forms  in  only  two  cases, 
and  he  does  not  fail  to  mention  the  difference  between  the  forms  of  the  verbal 
pronoun  in  -on  and  the  -ones  as  seen  in  koon,  come  (dual)  and  koones, 
come  (plural).  There  may  also  be  a  distinction  between  the  dual  and  plural  of 
the  second  person  as  shown  by  his  forms  kos  (cox)  for  the  dual  and  koses 
(coxex)  for  the  plural. 

2  The  early  Spanish  grammars  have  lai  for  the  demonstrative  of  the  3d  per- 
son. Palma  y  Palma  (p.  209,  210)  has  the  form  leti.  He  considers  this  the 
pronoun  of  the  3d  person  which  contracts  to  i  in  some  cases; 

nak  leti  or  nak-i  he  ascended. 
Lopez  (§  49)  has  lai,  lei  or  leti,  laiob,  letiob  or  leobti  for  the  3d  person, 
singular  and  plural. 

3  The  Huasteca  has  the  inclusive  and  exclusive  forms  for  the  nominal  pro- 
noun. These  forms  undoubtedly  exist  in  many  of  the  other  dialects  of  the 
Maya  stock. 


THE  PRONOUN  41 

addition  of  the  suffix,  -es  for  the  second  person  and  -ob  for  the 
third  person.  The  -es  is  also  used  alone  in  the  second  person  plural 
of  the  verbal  and  is  found  in  the  first  person  plural  compounded 
with  -on,  the  regular  verbal  pronoun  for  the  first  person,  dual  and 
plural. 

There  is  no  way  to  make  clear  without  the  use  of  the  demon- 
strative the  distinction  in  the  pronoun  between  a  singular  subject 
with  a  plural  object  and  a  plural  subject  with  a  singular  object,  as 
"he  hit  them"  and  "they  hit  him." 

Pronoun  with  vowel  stems.  When  the  root  or  stem  begins 
with  a  vowel  a  semi-vowel  is  infixed  between  the  nominal  pronoun 
and  the  stem  with  the  exception  of  the  first  person  plural.  This 
vowel  is  w  in  the  first  person  singular  and  the  second  person  singu- 
lar and  plural  and  y  in  the  third  person  singular  and  plural.  These 
vowels,  when  they  occur  here,  may  have  had  a  phonetic  origin  but 
a  syntactic  relation  is  shown  at  the  present  time  by  the  fact  that 
the  w  changes  to  y  in  the  third  person.1 

1  Coronel  and  the  other  early  grammarians  give  special  forms  for  the  pro- 
noun when  used  with  vowel  stems.  These  forms  agree  in  the  main  with  those 
found  at  the  present  time.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  form  for  the  first  per- 
son plural  does  not  differ  from  the  same  form  used  with  consonant  stems, 
thus  agreeing  with  Beltran  in  saying  that  no  semi-vowel  is  added  in  the  first 
person  plural.  The  distinction  made  by  them  between  the  first  and  second 
person  singular  by  the  use  of  the  regular  form  of  the  pronoun  for  the  second 
person  and  the  semi-vowel  alone  in  the  first  person  is  probably  incorrect  as  1 
found  the  pronoun  of  the  first  person  singular  (in)  always  retained  and  used 
with  the  semi-vowel,  w.  These  points  are  made  clear  by  the  following  com- 
parison between  the  early  forms  and  those  used  at  the  present  time; 

Coronel,  etc.  A.M.T. 

w-atan  in  w-atan 

a  w-atan  a  w-atan 

y-atan  u  y-atan  or  y-atan 

k-atan  k-atan 

a  w-atan-es  a  w-atan-es 

y-atan-ob  u  y-atan-ob  or  y-atan-ob 

Zavala  (p.  13)  gives  the  two  forms  for  the  1st  person  singular; 
w-atan  and  in  w-atan,  w-al,  in  w-al, 
and  two  for  the  third  person; 

y-atan  and  u-y-atan,  y-al,  u  y-al. 
Palma  y  Palma  (p.  147  and  p.  213-215)  has  the  same  forms  as  those  given 
here,  using  the  u,  however,  instead  of  the  w.  He  finds  fault  and  quite  correctly, 


42  GRAMMAR 

Verbal  Pronoun.   This  is  found  in  the  following  places: 

1.  Subject  of  the  intransitive  verb  in  the  past  tense. 

2.  Object  of  intransitive  verbs. 

3.  With  verbs  of  Class  IV. 

It  may  stand  alone  only  when  compounded  with  t  or  te  as  t-en, 
t-ets,  t-o(o)n.  These  forms  are  used  as  a  demonstrative  pronoun 
when  emphasis  is  desired  and  especially  in  answer  to  questions; * 

The  verbal  pronoun  may  be  compounded  with  ka  which,  as 
pointed  out  by  Seler  (p.  98,  99),  serves  as  a  conjunction,  a  rela- 
tive.   This  ka  combines  with  the  pronoun  into  k-en,  k-ets,  etc. : 
ten  ken  in  Nakuk  Pech,  I,  who  am  here,  1  am  Nakuk  Pech. 

with  the  forms  of  the  pronoun  given  by  the  early  grammarians  as  used  with 
vowel  stems. 

Lopez  (§  172)  agrees  with  the  forms  given  here. 

San  Buenaventura  uses  the  semi-vowel  with  vowel  verbs  even  when  the 
nominal  pronoun  follows  the  verbal  stem; 
wokol-in-kah. 
Beltran  (§  45)  finds  fault  with  this  with  good  reason. 
1  Beltran  (§  160)  uses  the  same  form  in  answer  to  a  question; 
ma  e§  hantik  wan  la,  who  is  eating  the  tortilla? 
ten  hantik,  1  am  eating  it. 

He  also  (§  32)  makes  this  form  compounded  with  t  his  first  pronoun  which  he 
calls  Demonstrative.  He  uses  it  in  his  2d,  3d,  and  4th  Conjugations  as  the 
subject  of  the  verb  in  the  present  and  imperfect  tenses; 

ten  kambesik  ten  oikik  ten  kanantik 

In  the  Maya  as  spoken  at  Valladolid  at  the  present  time  the  nominal  pro- 
noun would  be  used  compounded  with  its  time  particles  for  the  present  and 
past.  As  noted  above,  the  forms  of  the  verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t 
have  the  meaning  of  a  demonstrative; 

ten  kambe-s-ik,  1  am  the  one  who  is  showing  something. 

The  fact  that  Beltran  uses  the  nominal  pronoun  in  the  preterit,  pluperfect,  and 
his  two  futures  shows  that  he  has  no  warrant  for  using  the  verbal  pronoun  in 
the  present  and  imperfect. 

San  Buenaventura  incorrectly  uses  the  forms  ten,  tet§,  etc.  as  the  forms  of 
the  verb  "  to  be."   Beltran  (§  32)  does  not  agree  with  this. 

Seler  (p.  73)  notes  the  use  of  the  verbal  pronoun  with  a  "  supporter  "  t  or  te. 
He  (p.  79)  points  out  the  mistake  of  San  Buenaventura  in  considering  the  te 
as  a  verb.  He  bases  his  objection  on  the  fact  that  it  does  not,  as  a  rule,  have 
tense  characters. 

Lopez  (§§  48,  49)  gives  the  personal  pronoun  in  the  nominative  as  ten,  tet§, 
etc. 


THE  PRONOUN  43 

Nominal  Pronoun.    This  is  found  in  the  following  places : 

1.  Subject  of  all  transitive  verbs. 

2.  Subject  of  the  present  and  future  of  intransitive  verbs. 

3.  Possessive  pronoun. 

Time  Particles.  These  time  particles  of  the  pronoun  have 
not  been  recognized  as  such  in  any  of  the  Maya  grammars.1  It  is 
not  without  ample  verification  of  the  data  collected  in  Yucatan 
and  among  the  Lacandones  that  I  venture  to  suggest  the  presence 
of  a  full  set  of  time  particles  for  the  nominal  pronoun.  These  are 
prefixed  to  the  forms  of  the  pronoun  and  are  sometimes  so  closely 
joined  to  the  pronoun  by  phonetic  changes  that  it  is  difficult  to 
separate  them  from  the  form  of  the  pronoun.  In  general,  it  can 
be  said,  that  the  uncontracted  forms  are  most  common  among  the 
Mayas  as  well  as  among  the  Lacandones.  The  uncontracted  forms 
seem  to  have  been  earlier  than  those  where  contraction  has  re- 
sulted. Among  the  Mayas  near  Valladolid  the  contracted  forms 
were  used  almost  exclusively. 

The  time  particles  seen  in  the  1st  person,  dual  and  plural,  usu- 
ally remain  unchanged.  The  contractions  of  these  particles  with 
the  pronoun  are  shown  here. 

Contraction  of  time  particles.  Present,  tan,  may  contract  with 
the  pronoun  as  follows: 

Consonant  Stems  Vowel  Stems 

tan-in  into  t-in  tan-in  w-atan  into  t-in  w-atan,  my  wife. 

tan-a  into  t-an 2  tan-a  w-atan  into  t-an  w-atan. 

tan-u  into  t-un  tan-u  y-atan  into  tan  y-atan. 

tan-k  remains  tan-k  tan-k  atan  remains  tan-k  atan. 

Ki  or  k  contracts  with  the  pronoun  as  follows : 
ki-in  into  k-in. 
ki-a  into  k-a. 
ki-u  into  k-u. 
ki-k  into  q. 

1  Lopez  (§  72),  speaks  of  the  ki-  used  with  the  pronoun  for  the  present  and 
ti-  fcr  the  past,  giving,  respectively,  kin,  ka,  ku  and  tin,  ta,  tu. 

2  Lopez  (§.163)  makes  this  contraction  ta  instead  of  tan,  tu  instead  of  tun, 
resulting  in  trie  same  forms  as  the  contraction  seen  in  the  past  tense  of  t  or  ti 
and  the  pronoun  into  ta  and  tu.  In  the  1st  person,  singular,  the  resulting  forms 
in  the  present  and  past  agree,  tan-in,  and  t-in  both  giving  tin.  In  all  the  other 
persons  the  forms  in  the  present  and  past  do  not  agree. 


44  GRAMMAR 

Past,  t,  forms  with  the  pronoun  the  following : 
t-in  remains  t-in  or  t'-in. 
t-a  remains  t-a  or  t'-a. 
t-u  remains  t-u  or  t'-u. 
t-k  becomes  t'. 

o'ok  may  contract  with  the  pronoun  as  follows : 
o'ok-in  into  o'-in. 
o'ok-a  into  o'-a. 
o'ok-u  into  o'-u. 
o'ok-k  becomes  o'oq. 

Future,  he,  may  contract  with  the  pronoun  as  follows: 
he-in  into  he-n. 
he-a  into  h-a. 
he-u  into  h-u. 
he-k  remains  he-k. 

A  more  detailed  consideration  of  these  particles  will  now  be 
attempted. 

Present  time.  This  is  expressed  in  the  pronoun  by  the  Indians 
with  whom  I  worked  by  the  particle  tan.1   The  union  of  this  par- 

1  The  early  Spanish  grammars  do  not  recognize  these  time  particles.  Bel- 
tran,  however  (§  262)  notes  the  particle  tan  as  expressing  present  time.  He 
does  not  speak  cf  the  contracted  forms.  The  Motul  Dictionary  has  the  follow- 
ing entry  under  tan,  "  presencia,  tin  tan,  ta  tan,  tu  tan."  Perez  (1866-1877) 
has  the  following,  "Tan,  verbo  impersonal:  el  acto  6  capacidad de  hacer  6  ejecutar. 
Tan  u  tal,  estd  viniendo."  This  would  seem  to  show  that  the  uncontracted 
forms  were  employed  in  early  times. 

The  Ticul  dictionary  (Perez,  1898)  gives  the  following  under  tan,  "en 
presencia,  con  tin,  ta,  tu,  se  usa  tin  tan,  en  mi  presencia,  ante  mi" 

San  Buenaventura  (fol.  19)  gives  the  particle  tan  as  always  prefixed  to  the 
active  verb  in  ik:  * 

tan  in  kambesik,  1  am  showing  something. 
This  indicates  that  the  uncontracted  form  was  in  good  use  in  his  time. 

Cruz  (1912)  frequently  uses  the  uncontracted  form  of  the  nominal  pronoun 
with  tan  in  his  examples  of  the  present  tense.  He  is  more  inclined,  however, 
to  employ  it  with  a  negative; 

ma  tan  a  betik,  you  are  making  nothing. 
baas  ten  tan  u  kanik,  why  does  he  not  learn? 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  177)  uses  the  forms  tin,  tan,  tun,  etc.,  for  his  transitive 
verbs  in  the  present  tense.  These  are  undoubtedly  the  contracted  forms  of 
tan-in,  tan-a,  tan-u  as  he  specifically  mentions  (p.  177)  these  forms  compounded 
with  taan.  His  interpretation  of  tin,  however,  differs  from  the  one  given  here. 
He  states  that  it  is  formed  from  ti  "  cuando  se  dice  al  por  a  el.  .  .  .  Tin  en  el 


THE  PRONOUN  45 

tide  with  the  pronoun  is  seen  above.  Tan  seems  to  convey  the 
idea  of  continued  action  in  the  present: 

tin  (tan-in)  sotik  tse,  I  am  now  cutting  wood  or  1  am  now  engaged  in  the 

act  of  cutting  wood, 
tan-k  han-al,  we  are  eating,  we  are  engaged  in  the  act  of  eating, 
tun  (tan-u)  wen-el,  he  is  sleeping. 

With  vowel  stems,  where  y  is  the  semi-vowel  added  only  in  the 
3d  person,  the  form  of  the  pronoun  of  this  person  with  tan  shows 
the  dropping  of  the  u,  the  true  pronoun,  and  the  tan  is  retained : 

tan  yooqot,  he  is  dancing, 
rather  than 

tun  (tan-u)  yooqot. 

which  might  be  expected. 

The  use  of  tan  with  the  pronoun  to  express  present  time  seems 
to  be  less  common  in  many  parts  of  the  peninsula  than  the  use  of 
the  ki-  or  k-  compounded  with  the  nominal  pronoun.1  This  form  is 

presente  de  indicativo  tan  to  se  puede  covsiderar  sincopa  de  ti  in,  como  de  taan  in. 
Ti  in  betik.    Esto  vale  lo  hago.   Taan  in  betik.    Esto  vale  lo  estoy  haciendo." 

Lopez  (§§  158,  163),  in  writing  of  synalephe,  uses  as  illustrations  forms  in 
tan: 

tin  bin  for  tan  in  bin,  1  am  going. 

tin  hanal  for  tan  in  hanal,  1  am  eating. 

He  makes  no  mention  in  any  other  part  of  his  grammar  of  this  use  of  tan  in  the 
present  tense. 

1  Beltran  (§  161)  gives  the  form  ki  as  denoting  present  time  when  com- 
pounded with  the  nominal  pronoun.  He  often  uses  his  pronoun  t-en,  t-ets,  etc., 
with  this; 

ten  ki-in  wal-ik,  contracting  to  ten  kin  walik,  1  am  saying  it. 
He  repeats  the  same  form  (§  34)  in  the  preterit; 

ten  kin  yakunah,  1  loved  someone. 
These  sentences  should  more  properly  be  translated; 

1  am  the  one  who  is  talking. 

1  am  the  one  who  loved  someone. 

In  §  101  he  states  that  the  particle  ki  appears  as  if  it  were  a  pronoun  but  it  is 
merely  used  for  ornament  or  for  greater  signification  and  denotes  present  time. 
Here  he  uses  it  without  the  verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t,  as  above,  but 
notes  that  it  combines  with  the  nominal  pronoun  into  k-in,  k-a,  k-u,  etc. 

Palma  y  Palma  uses  the  forms  in  k-.  He  states  (p.  171)  that  it  indicates  ac- 
customed action; 


46  GRAMMAR 

recognized  at  Valladolid  but  is  far  less  common  than  that  with 
tan. 

The  forms  in  k-  or  ki-  seem,  in  some  cases,  to  express  the  idea 
of  a  potential  mood  when  used  with  the  future  stem  in  -e: 

k-in  puts-e,  1  may  strike  it. 

k-in  hant-e,  I  may  eat  it. 

tuu§  k-a  bin,  where  may  you  be  going,  where  are  you  going? 

The  contrast  between  the  use  of  tan  and  k  with  the  nominal- pro- 
noun is  seen  in  the  following: 

le  winik  k-u  tal,  the  man  is  going  to  come,  the  man  may  come. 

le  winik  t-un  (tan-u)  tal,  the  man  is  coming,  the  man  is  in  the  act  of  coming. 

When  k-  or  ki-  is  used  the  idea  may  in  some  cases  be  translated 
by  the  Spanish  term  "a  veces,"  sometimes. 

Future  time.  This  may  be  expressed  by  the  nominal  pronoun 
compounded  with  the  particle  he.  The  uncontracted  forms  are 
found  in  use  among  the  Mayas  as  well  as  among  the  Lacandones. 
The  contracted  forms  are  shown  above.  Here,  as  in  the  case  with 
the  present  particle,  tan,  the  first  person,  dual  and  plural,  does 
not  show  contraction.  I  have  been  unable  to  find  the  derivation 
of  this  particle.  Undoubtedly  this  he,  as  in  the  case  of  the  tan  and 
o'ok,  is  derived  from  a  former  stem.1 

t-in  be-t-ik,  1  am  doing  it. 
k-in  be-t-ik,  I  am  accustomed  to  do  it. 
k-in  bin,  1  am  accustomed  to  go. 
Zavala  uses  the  forms  in  k  for  the  present,  both  of  the  transitive  and  in- 
transitive; 

k-in  naak-al,  1  am  climbing, 
k-in  kanan-t-ik,  1  am  guarding  it. 
Lopez  follows  Beltran  and  uses  the  forms  in  k-  or  ki-  with  the  nominal  pro- 
noun. He  uses  it  always  in  combination  with  the  verbal  pronoun  with  t-;  ten, 
teti,  etc. 

Martinez  thinks  that  the  k-in  is  a  contraction  of  ka-in. 
1  This  particle  for  future  time  may  be  a  late  development.   Whereas  tan,  t, 
and  o'ok  are  mentioned  by  the  early  writers  as  having  some  time  significance 
1  have  found  this  future  time  particle,  he,  given  only  by  several  of  the  later 
authorities. 

Cruz  (1912)  has  the  following; 

he  in  oikti,  1  shall  give  it. 
Ruz  (1844,  p.  88)  has  the  following; 
ten  he  in  binel,  1  shall  go.  k-toon  he  k  binel,  we  shall  go. 

tet§  he  a  binel,  thou  wilt  go.  tees  he  a  binel,  you  will  go. 

letile  he  u  binel,  he  will  go.  leti  le-ob  he  u  binel,  they  will  go. 


THE  PRONOUN  47 

hen  (he-in)  bin-[el]-e,  1  shall  go. 

he-k  han-al-e,  we  shall  eat. 

hu  (he-u)  han-t-ik-e  (han-t-k-e),  he  will  eat  something. 

Past  time.  This  is  expressed  in  the  nominal  pronoun  with  the 
particle  t.  This  t  unites  with  the  pronoun  as  we  have  shown  above 
(p.  44).  The  resulting  form  for  the  first  person  singular  t-in  is  the 
same  as  that  for  the  present  pronoun  with  tan,  tan-in  contracting 
to  t-in.  The  history  of  the  two  forms  is,  however,  entirely  differ- 
ent. It  may  be  possible  that  the  form  expressing  past  time  is  pro- 
nounced with  a  slightly  more  explosive  character  to  the  initial  t 
than  is  given  to  the  same  form  expressing  present  time.  In  the 
first  person  dual  and  plural  there  is  an  unusual  change.  The  pro- 
nominal prefix  k  is  dropped  and  the  sign  of  the  past  (t)  is  changed 
to  the  fortis  (V).  There  is  necessarily  a  slight  hiatus  in  this  form 
before  the  explosive  t  and  the  initial  consonant  sound  of  the  ver- 
bal stem.1 

t-in  or  t'-in  puts-ah,  1  hit  something. 
t'  (t-k)  han-t-ah,  we  ate  something. 

This  t,  expressing  a  past,  is  undoubtedly  the  same  as  that  found 
used  directly  with  the  intransitive  verb  (p.  72) : 2 
t-bin-en,  1  went.  t-han-en,  1  ate. 

The  prefix  o'ok  is  used  with  the  nominal  pronoun  to  convey  the 
idea  of  action  just  completed.3   This  o'ok  is  the  root  of  the  verb, 

Lopez  (§  107)  writes;  "  En  vez  del  futuro  imperfecto  de  indicativo  se  usa  fre- 
cuentemente  el  presente,  anteponiendole  la  particula  he  seguida  de  los  pronombres 
in,  a,  u,  etc.  y  posponiendole  una  e: 
he  in  betike,  1  shall  do  it. 

Martinez  has  suggested  to  me  that  he  is  a  contracted  form  of  helel,  now, 
to-day.    He  does  not  consider  the  forms  in  he  good  Maya. 

The  Motul  and  Ticul  dictionaries  give  he  as  meaning  "  el  que,  la  que,  lo  que." 

1  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  212)  accepts  this  time  particle  compounded  with  the 
nominal  pronoun.  In  the  1st  person  plural,  however,  he  gives  k  or  ka  instead 
oft'. 

Lopez  (p.  50)  has  t  in  this  place  but  makes  no  mention  of  it  being  the  fortis. 
Martinez  consider  this  t  stands  for  ten. 

2  Compare  Beltran,  §  85.  This  tense  sign,  t,  should  not  be  confounded  with 
ti  or  t,  meaning  "  to  "  and  given  in  the  early  Spanish  grammars  as  the  sign  of 
the  dative. 

3  Beltran  (§  85)  also  uses  the  verb  o'ok  for  a  preterit  with  transitive  and  in- 


48  GRAMMAR 

"  to  finish  or  complete."  This  is  added  directly  to  the  forms  of  the 
pronoun.  Here,  again,  the  Lacandones  and  many  of  the  Mayas 
use  the  uncontracted  forms.  The  contracted  forms  used  by  some 
are  seen  above.  The  only  unusual  contraction  is  that  for  the  first 
person  dual  and  plural  where  o'ok-k  becomes  o'oq,  the  two  k 
sounds  making  a  velar  k  (q).  The  verb  is  used  in  the  present 
stem  with  o'ok: 

D'in  (o'ok-in)  wen-el,  1  have  just  been  sleeping. 

o'oq  (o'ok-k)  han-t-ik,  we  have  just  been  eating  something,  or  we  have 
finished  eating  something. 

Case.  It  is  only  in  the  pronoun  that  we  have  any  suggestion 
of  case  in  Maya  and  even  here  there  are  only  three;  —  subjective, 
objective,  and  possessive.  The  oblique  cases  are  all  expressed  by 
prepositions. 

Subjective.  The  subject  of  the  verb  is  always  expressed  by  the 
pronoun  even  when  there  is  a  noun  for  the  subject.  This  subject, 
the  nominal  pronoun,  is  really  a  possessive: 

winik  u  put§-ik  Pedro,  or  u  puts-ik  winik  Pedro,  the  man  is  hitting  Peter, 
literally,  the  man,  his  hitting  something,  Peter. 

Objective.  The  forms  of  the  verbal  pronoun  are  used  as  the 
object: 

tin  put§-ik-ets,  1  am  hitting  you;  literally,  present  time,  1  am  hitting 
something,  present  time,  you;  or,  you  are  the  object  of  my  hitting. 

In  the  future  the  -e,  the  sign  of  this  tense,  is  placed  at  the  end 
of  the  form: 

hu  puts-ik-en-e,  he  will  hit  me. 

transitive  verbs.  He  does  not  mention  the  contracted  forms  made  with  the 
nominal  pronoun; 

o'ok  u  hantik,  he  ate  it,  (ya  lo  comio), 
o'ok  u  lubul,  he  fell  (ya  acabo  de  caer). 
Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  17)  show  the  form  o'ok  in  an  example 
which  they  both  give  to  illustrate  the  statement  that  the  -ik  form  is  used  when 
an  active  verb  follows  a  neuter  and  the  latter  does  not  denote  action; 
o'oki  in  kanik  paialt§i,  acabe  de  aprender  d  rezar. 
Lopez  (§  106)  states  that  the  form  in  o'ok  is  used  "  con  mucha  frecuencia  '' 
as  a  preterit  perfect;  "  que  signified  terminar,  acabar  y  ya"; 

han-en,  yo  comi.  o'ok  in  han-al  ya  coml. 

He  has  another  form  with  o'ok  combined  with  ill  to  form  the  pluperfect.  I 
did  not  find  this  form. 

o'okili  in  hanal,  1  had  eaten. 


THE  PRONOUN  49 

The  indirect  object  is  expressed  by  the  particle  t  and  the  verbal 
pronoun : 

tin  o'ib-t-ik-t-ets,  contracted  to  tin  o'ib-t-ets,  I  am  writing  something  to 
you. 

Possessive  Pronoun.  The  nominal  pronoun  is  really  a  posses- 
sive and  is  naturally  used  to  express  possession.  There  is  little 
doubt  that  the  possessive  idea  is  uppermost  even  in  the  use  of  this 
nominal  pronoun  with  a  finite  verb.1 

tin  (tan-in)  §otik  t§e,  1  am  cutting  wood;  literally,  in  present  time,  my  cut- 
ting something,  in  present  time,  wood. 

The  forms  of  the  nominal  pronoun  used  to  convey  the  idea  of 
possession  are  attached  to  the  name  of  the  object  possessed  rather 
than  to  that  of  the  possessor; 

u-huun  Juan,  John,  his  book. 
u  peq  winik,  the  man's  dog. 

With  nouns  beginning  with  a  vowel  the  nominal  pronoun  of  the 
third  person  (u)  is  often  dropped  when  the  semi- vowel  is  added. 
There  is  no  cause  for  confusion  in  this  as  y  is  only  added  in  the  3d 
person : 

u-y-otots,  becomes  y-otots,  his  house. 

Natural  possession.  There  is  another  form  indicating  possession 
made  by  prefixing  the  usual  form  of  the  nominal  pronoun  to  the 
name  of  the  object  possessed  and,  at  the  same  time,  suffixing  the 
particle  -il  to  the  same  word.  This  indicates  in  most  cases,  not 
so  much  possession,  as  a  natural  and  often  inseparable  relation- 
ship between  the  possessor  and  the  thing  possessed.  The  possessor 
is  very  often  an  inanimate  object; 2 

1  Lopez  (§  56)  seems  to  fail  to  recognize  the  idea  of  possession  when  these 
forms  are  used  as  the  subject  of  the  verb.  He  calls  this  pronoun  " mixed" 
"porque  se  usa  indistintamente  como  pronombre  personal  y  como  adjectivo 
posesivo. 

in  qat  in  hant  in  wan,  quiero  comer  mi  pan, 
donde  tenemos  el  pronombre  in  empleado,  en  el  primer  caso,  como  personal  y  en  el 
segundo,  como  posesivo." 

2  Seler  (p.  115)  writes  in  this  connection,  "Im  Maya  wird  dabei,  wenn  der 
betreffende  Gegenstand  zu  einer  dritten  Person  gehbrt  und  diese  drilte  Person 
ausdriicklich  genannt  ist,  das  Possessivprdfix  der  dritten  Person  als  uberfiiissig 
night  gesetzt." 


50  GRAMMAR 

u-ha-il  ts'en,  the  water  of  the  well. 

u-na-il  Chichen,  the  houses  of  Chichen,  more  properly,  u-na-il-ob. 

u-na-il  winik,  the  houses  for  the  men. 

u-o'on-il  ke  the  gun  for  deer. 

Demonstrative  Pronoun.  This  is  found  in  three  forms.  There 
is  no  well  developed  system  denning  the  noun  in  relation  to  the 
speaker,  the  person  addressed,  and  the  person  spoken  of.  The 
demonstrative  roughly  corresponds  to  the  Spanish,  este,  ese,  and 
aquel.  I  am  inclined  to  think,  however,  that  this  similarity  is  more 
apparent  than  real  and  that  there  are  distinctions  in  the  three 
sets  of  forms  which  will  come  out  later. 

The  demonstrative  is  expressed  by  the  suffixes  -a,  -o,  and  -e; 
the  first  denoting  "  this  one  here,"  the  second,  "  that  one  there," 
and  the  third,  "  that  one  at  a  distance."  When  one  of  these  is 
found  it  is  always  in  connection  with  the  prefix  le,  itself  a  demon- 
strative or  a  sort  of  definite  article.  The  latter  is  sometimes  used 
alone : 

le  winik-a,  this  man  here. 

le  winik-o,  that  man  there,  pointing  to  the  place. 

le  winik-e,  that  man  at  an  distance. 

The  prefix  le-,  also  found  in  the  form  leeti  or  leti,  the  demon- 
strative of  the  3d  person,  is  used,  in  some  cases,  in  place  of  the 
personal  pronoun  with  past  tenses  of  the  intransitive: 
leeti  bini,  he  went  (usually  written  lay  ti). 

The  same  form  is  used  redundantly  with  transitive  verbs  and  the 
nominal  pronoun: 

leeti  tu  puts-ob,  he  hit  them,  more  correctly,  puts-ah-ob. 
leeti-ob  tu  puts-ob,  they  hit  them, 
mas  putse,  who  hit  him? 
leeti  put§e,  he  hit  him. 

The  demonstrative  particles  are  also  used  with  te,  as  te-la,  t§-lo, 
and  te-le  contracted,  in  some  cases,  into  t-la,  t-lo,  t-le.1 

Reflexive  Pronoun.  This  is  made  by  adding  the  particle  -ba 
to  the  usual  forms  of  the  nominal  pronoun.    This  is  best  seen  in 

1  The  Spanish  grammars  give  only  the  forms  te-la  and  te-lo.    Beltran 
(§  145)  notes  the  syncopation  of  the  e  into  t-la,  t-lo,  and  they  note  that  with 
le  an  e  is  added  to  the  noun; 
le-peq-e,  that  dog. 


THE  VERB  51 

transitive  verbs  with  the  nominal  pronoun  as  subject  and  the 
same  form  repeated  as  the  object; 

tin  put§-k-im-ba,  contracted  from  puts-ik-in-ba,  1  am  hitting  myself. 

The  n  changes  for  euphony  to  m  as  Chilam  Balam  for  Chilan 
Balam.   It  should  be  noted  that  the  verbal  pronoun  is  not  used  as 
the  object  as  might  be  expected.    In  a  past  tense  we  have 
tin  puts-im-ba,  1  hit  myself. 

The  normal  form  does  not  seem  to  be  used.   This  would  be 
tin  puts-ah-in-ba. 

The  reflexive  is  also  seen  in  the  form 

tin  nao'-k-im-ba,  1  approach,  literally,  my  nearing  it,  my,  myself. 

Reciprocal  Pronoun.  This  relation  is  expressed  by  the  par- 
ticle tan-ba  or  ba-tan: 1 

u  ba-tan-ba-ob,  entre  si  mismos. 

tun  puts-k-u-tan-ba-ob,  they  are  hitting  one  another. 

Interrogative  Pronouns.  These  end  in  s  and  occur  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  sentence: 

mas  il-ets,  who  saw  you? 

mas  ta-wil-ah,  whom  did  you  see? 

baas  ta-o'ibol-t-ah,  what  do  you  desire? 

tuus  ka-bin,  where  are  you  going? 

mas  meya-n-ah-i,  who  worked? 

baas  ta-mis-t-ah,  what  are  you  sweeping? 

♦ 

THE  VERB 
Classification. 
I.   Action  or  state  in  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -til. 

(a)  Pure  action  or  state. 

(b)  Causal,  s. 

Root  in  be. 
II.    "  Endowed  with  "  in  -tal. 

1  San  Buenaventura  states  that  tanba  is  used  as  a  reciprocal  in  the  2d  and 
3d  person  plural.  Beltran  (§  47)  correctly  adds  that  it  can  also  be  used  in  the 
1st  person  plural. 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  216)  gives  the  reciprocal  pronoun  as  tam-ba; 
tin  qol-tam-ba. 
In  explaining  this  form  he  writes  "  No  vale,  me  golpeo  a  mi,  sino  me  golpeo  con 
otro  6  cow  otros  en  pelea" 


52  GRAMMAR 

III.   Neuter  stems. 

(a)  Stem  alone. 

(b)  Agent,  t. 

Roots  in  kin  and  kun. 
Verbs  in  -ankil. 

TV.   Auxiliary  "  to  be  "  (verbal  pronoun). 
Root  in  yan. 

V.   Irregular  and  defective  verbs. 

It  does  not  seem  necessary  to  classify  the  verbs  into  the  four 
conjugations  according  to  the  methods  of  the  early  Spanish  gram- 
marians.1 In  place  of  these  conjugations  it  has  seemed  more  wise 
to  make  the  following  divisions : 2 

Class  I.  Verbs  in  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  and  ul,  denoting  action  or 
state.  The  ending  in  -1  with  a  vowel  corresponding  to  that  of  the 
root  denotes  the  effect  of  the  action  or  state  upon  the  subject  of 
the  verb : 3 

tin  lub-ul,  I  am  falling,  literally,  1  am  affected  by  the  act  of  falling,  my  fall. 
tin  kim-il,  1  am  dying,  literally,  1  am  affected  by  the  act  of  death,  my 

death, 
tin  kim-s-il,  1  am  being  killed,  literally,  1  am  affected  by  someone  causing 

me  to  die,  my  caused  death. 
tin  wem-el,  1  am  descending,  literally,  1  am  affected  by  the  descent. 

1  The  1st  Conjugation  erf  Beltran  and  of  the  other  early  grammarians  is 
the  intransitive  verb,  and  their  2d,  3d,  and  4th  Conjugations  are  the  active 
or  transitive  verb.  There  is  a  general  correspondence  between  these  conjuga- 
tions and  the  classes  given  here.  The  1st  Conjugation  is  my  Class  I  a,  the  2d 
is  Class  I  b,  the  3d,  composed  of  monosyllabic  stems,  is  Class  Ilia,  and  the 
4th,  made  up  of  polysyllabic  stems,  is  Class  III  o. 

For  a  comparison  of  the  forms  given  by  Beltran,  San  Buenaventura,  and 
Coronel  with  forms  found  today,  see  p.  286-289.  These  tables  have  been 
taken,  for  the  most  part,  from  the  paradigms  given  by  the  early  grammarians 
in  question.  A  few  forms  have  been  added  from  the  text  of  the  grammars. 
It  should  be  noted  that  the  forms  of  the  subjunctive,  infinitive,  and  optative 
have  been  omitted  as  forms  corresponding  with  these  are  not  generally  found 
among  the  present  Mayas. 

2  This  classification  has  been  briefly  outlined  in  Tozzer,  1912. 

3  For  skeleton  paradigms  of  the  various  classes  of  verbs,  see  p.  283-285. 
Lopez  (§§  70,  76),  following  the  analogy  of  the  three  Spanish  conjugations 

in  ar,  er  and  ir,  makes  five  conjugations  of  the  verb  in  -1,  corresponding  to  the 
five  vowels  used  with  it. 


THE  VERB  53 

These  verbs  may  be  further  divided  into  two  subclasses: 
(a)  Pure  action  or  state.    The  transitive  or  applicative  form  is 
made  by  dropping  the  suffix  in  -1  and  adding  -ik  and  other  time 
particles  directly  to  the  root: 

tin  het-el,  1  am  performing  the  act  of  opening. 

tin  het-ik,  1  am  opening  something. 

tin  nao'-al,  1  am  approaching. 

tin  nao'-ik,  ]  am  approaching  something. 

tin  nao'-ah,  1  approached  something. 

(6)  Causal  verbs.  These  make  the  transitive  or  applicative 
form  by  dropping  the  suffix  in  -1  and  adding  the  causal  s  before 
the  time  particles  of  the  verbal  stem: 

tin  ban-al,  1  am  tumbling  down,  my  being  affected  by  the  tumble. 

tin  ban-s-ik,  1  am  causing  something  to  tumble  down. 

tin  kim-il,  ],  am  dying. 

tin  kim-s-ik,  ]  am  causing  something  to  die,  1  am  killing  something. 

Root  in  be.  There  is  a  subdivision  in  Class  I  b.  A  large  number 
of  verbal  stems  are  made  by  adding  be,  the  root  of  the  verb  mean- 
ing "  to  make  "  before  the  causal  and  the  transitive  endings,  -ik, 
-ah,  and  -e : l 

tin  kam-be-s-ik,  1  am  teaching  scmeone,  1  cause  to  make  learn  someone. 
tin  kim-be-s-ik,  I  injure  someone,  1  cause  to  make  someone  die. 
tin  yah-be-s-ik,  1  wound  someone,  1  cause  to  make  someone  wounded. 
tin  qin-be-s-ik,  1  sun  something,  1  cause  to  make  something  sunned,  I 

warm  something. 
tin  qis-be-s-ik,  I  fill  something  with  thorns,  1  cause  to  make  something 
thorny. 

Some  of  these  verbs  more  properly  belong  in  Class  III  as  they 
are  also  used  with  the  sign  of  the  agent,  t: 

tin  qin-t-ik,  1  warm  something,  1  do  something  by  means  of  the  sun. 
tin  qis-t-ik,  1  make  something  thorny,  1  do  something  by  means  of  thorns. 

1  These  causal  verbs  with  be  form  the  2d  Conjugation  of  the  Spanish  gram- 
mars although  they  are  not  recognized  as  causal.  The  verb  used  in  the  para- 
digm for  this  Conjugation  is  kambesah  which  is  described  below. 

Seler  (p.  92,  93)  states  that  t  and  s  (z)  are  "  employed  with  passive  themes 
to  render  transitive  expressions."  His  examples  of  the  use  of  s  in  this  connec- 
tion show  the  causal  relationship  although  this  is  not  mentioned  by  him.  The 
following  sentences  with  his  translation  make  this  clear;  * 

kim,  to  die,  kim-s-ah,  to  kill, 
aak,  fresh,  green,  aakesah,  aksah,  to  water,  to  make  fresh. 

Lopez  (§  103)  has  much  to  say  concerning  the  forms  of  the  neuter  verb  in  -1 
and  the  corresponding  form  of  the  active  verb  in  -s-ik  but  no  mention  is  made 
that  this  s  is  a  causal. 


54  GRAMMAR 

This  same  root,  be,  is  sometimes  used  with  verbal  roots  or  nouns, 
the  sign  of  the  agent,  and  the  transitive  endings  to  denote  an  in- 
transitive idea.  The  root  or  noun  always  precedes  the  nominal 
pronoun : 1 

tal  tin  be-t-ik,  1  am  making  it  to  come,  1  am  coming. 

qai  tin  be-t-ik,  1  am  singing,  1  am  making  it  by  means  of  song. 

These  forms  are  exactly  equivalent  to  the  forms: 
tal-in-kah  or  tin  tal,  tin  qai. 

A  distinguishing  feature  of  Class  I  verbs  is  that  the  past  tense 
of  the  intransitive  is  formed  by  dropping  the  -1  of  the  present 
stem  and  adding  the  verbal  pronoun  directly  to  the  root: 

nao'-en,  1  approached,  literally,  1  am  an  approaches 

em-ets,  heiwent  down.  ' 

kim-i,  he  died. 

ooq-on,  we  entered,  literally,  we  are  enterers. 

Thus  it  will  be  seen  that  all  verbs  of  Class  I  may  be  used  either 
in  the  intransitive  or  transitive  or  applicative  according  to  the 
ending  employed;  the  first,  denoting  simply  the  effect  of  the  action 
or  state  on  the  subject,  and  the  second,  expressing  the  action  or 
state  as  directed  toward  an  object.  In  considering  the  intransitive 
and  transitive  by  themselves  this  subject  will  be  discussed  more 
fully  later  (p.  64). 

Class  II.  This  class  of  verbs  are  those  in  -tal  which  have  the 
meaning  "  endowed  with."  2  They  are  intransitive  only  and  form 
the  past  in  1-ah  with  the  verbal  pronoun : 3 

1  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  172,  173)  gives  these  forms  and  comments  on  the  fact 
that  neither  Beltran  nor  San  Buenaventura  speak  of  them.  Palma  y  Palma 
uses  the  ncminal  pronoun  compounded  with  k  in  his  form  with  be.  He  gives 
three  ways  of  saying,  "  1  am  going  " ; 

bin-in-kah  tin  bin  bin  kin  be-t-ik. 

and  he  adds  "  tddas  sort  muy  corrientes"  It  is  quite  possible  that  the  form  used 
with  be  shows  a  late  development  in  the  language. 

2  Seler  (p.  81)  explains  these  forms  as  follows;  —  "  Es  liegen  hier  alte  No- 
mina vor.  kus,  das  als  solches  im  heutigen  Maya  nicht  mehr  existirt,  eigentlich 
k'us  zu  schreiben,  entspricht  dem  Qu'iche-Cakchiquel  k'u§  und  heisst  '  Herz.' 
kah  ist  'das  Gesetzte,  Gergriindete,  die  Ansiedlung,  das  Dorf."  He  repeats  the  mis- 
take of  limiting  the  use  of  these  forms  with  the  verbal  pronoun.  In  the  present 
and  future  tenses  the  nominal  pronoun  is  used. 

3  Coronel  and  the  other  grammatists  have  a  rule  that  verbs  in  -tal  which 
have  an  1  in  the  root  form  the  past,  not  in  -lah,  but  in  -hi,  as  kul-tal,  kul-hi. 


THE  VERB  55 

tin  ku§-tal,  1  am  living;  literally,  my  being  endowed  with  a  heart. 

kus-1-ah-i,  he  lived. 

tin  kah-tal,  1  am  dwelling;  literally,  my  being  endowed  with  a  pueblo. 

kah-1-ah-en,  1  dwelt. 

tin  tsui-tal,  1  am  hanging. 

The  same  suffix,  -tal,  is  found  with  verbs  of  Class  IV  and  with 
nouns  with  the  same  meaning  as  above: 

keel-en,  1  am  cold. 

keel-tal-en,  1  am  always  cold  ("  endowed  with  "  cold). 

kalan,  a  drunken  man. 

kalan-tal,  a  drunkard. 

Class  III.  This  class  is  composed  of  those  verbs  formed  from 
stems  which  are  nominal  in  character  and  which  have  been  called 
neutral.  These  verbs  may  or  may  not  be  monosyllabic  and  they 
have  no  uniform  ending  in  the  present  of  the  intransitive  as  those 
of  the  former  class.  The  distinction  between  this  class  and  Class  I 
is  seen  in  these  two  examples: 

Class     1.   tin  lub-ul,  1  am  falling,  my  being  affected  by  the  act  of  falling, 

my  fall. 
Class  111,   tin  o'on,  1  am  shooting,  literally,  my  gunning. 

Other  examples  of  Class  III  follow : l 

From  nai,  a  dream,  tin  nai,  1  am  dreaming,  my  dreaming. 
tub,  saliva,  tin  tub,  1  am  spitting,  my  saliva. 
qai,  a  song,  tin  qai,  1  am  singing,  my  song. 
baab,  a  crab,  tin  baab,  1  am  swimming,  my  crabbing. 

There  are  a  few  noun  stems  which  are  shortened  when  used  in 
the  transitive  with  -ik.  This  may  be  a  case  of  syncope  as  the  t  is 
retained : 2 

The  verb  kul-tal,  to  sit,  is  an  early  form  of  ku-tal.  1  found  a  past  in  kul-h-i,  he 
sat  down,  but  the  more  common  one  follows  the  general  rule  above  and  we  have 
ku-1-ah-i. 

1  As  noted  by  Beltran  (§§  121,  122),  tsibal,  to  bite,  to  eat  meat,  from  tsi, 
mouth,  belongs  in  this  conjugation.  The  past  is  formed  in  the  regular  way  but 
the  passive  is  irregular; 

tsi-b-il,  1  am  being  bitten. 
Beltran  also  notes  (§  124)  the  possibility  of  confusion  in  the  verb  tukul. 
This  is  not  a  verb  of  Class  1  but  a  noun  meaning  "  thought,  idea  "  and  belongs 
in  this  conjugation.     The  past  is 

tukul-n-ah-en,  not  tuk-en. 

2  Compare  Beltran,  §  124. 


56  GRAMMAR 

p'ulut,  smoke,  tin  p'ulut,  1  smoke,  my  smoking. 

p'ulut-n-ah-en,  1  smoked. 

tin  p'ul-t-ik,  I  smoke  something,  1  fumigate*  for  p'ulut-ik. 

mulut,  a  wish,  tin  mul-t-ik,  1  am  wishing  something,  for  mulut-ik. 

The  distinguishing  feature  of  the  intransitive  of  these  verbs  is 
that  the  past  tense  is  formed  by  adding  n-ah  and  the  verbal  pro- 
noun to  the  root : 1 

nai-n-ah-en,  I  dreamed.  qai-n-ah-i,  he  sang. 

tub-n-ah-ets,  you  spat.  baab-n-ah-on,  we  swam. 

As  with  Class  I  this  class  may  be  subdivided  according  to  the 
method  of  making  the  present  and  future  stems  in  the  transitive 
or  applicative : 

(a)  Some  make  the  transitive  by  adding  the  -ik  of  the  present 
and  the  -ah  of  the  past  directly  to  the  stem: 

tin  o'on-ik,  1  am  shooting  something,  my  gunning  something. 

tin  los-ik,  1  am  hitting  something  with  my  fist,  my  fisting  something. 

tin  puts-ik,  1  am  hitting  something  with  my  hand. 

(6)  Verbs  of  agent.  These  add  a  t  before  the  ending  for  the 
transitive : 2 

1  Seler  (p.  83)  calls  the  verbs  of  Class  I  "the  intransitive  verbs  proper" 
and  those  of  Class  III  "derived  intransitives."  He  points  out  that  the 
" intransitives  proper"  refer  to  "bodily  activity,  position  in  place,  changes 
in  time,  etc,"  but  he  fails  to  note  the  main  distinction  between  the  verbs  of 
these  two  classes,  namely  that  those  of  Class  I  express  actions  or  states  and 
those  of  Class  III  are  all  derived  directly  from  nouns.  Both  may  be  used  in 
the  transitive  and  intransitive. 

Lopez  (§  88)  fails  also  to  make  the  proper  distinction  between  verbs  of  Class 
1  and  Class  HI.  He  recognizes  the  past  as  given  here  for  these  verbs  and  states 
that  all  neuter  verbs  not  ending  in  -1  make  the  past  in  n-ah. 

2  These,  in  general,  are  the  verbs  placed  by  the  early  grammarians  in  their 
4th  Conjugation.  Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  12)  are  not  consistent 
in  this  for  they  include  in  their  3d  Conjugation  some  verbs  in  t-ik.  Beltran 
(§§  118-120)  finds  fault  with  this  although  he  places  (§  298)  the  monosyllabic 
stems  which  form  the  past  in  t-ah  in  the  3d  conjugation.  He  also  places  here 
(§  59)  verbs  made  up  of  two  nouns.  These  correspond  to  the  verbs  of  agent 
with  t: 

Juan  u  bets-qab-t-ah  u  mehen,  Juan  called  with  his  hand  to  his  son. 
He  also  follows  the  modern  practice  by  making  the  intransitive  form; 

bets-qab-n-ah-i,  he  called  with  his  hand. 
He  explains  the  t  (§  296),  not  as  denoting  agent,  but  as  added  for  euphony 
(buen  sonido). 


THE  VERB  '  57 

tin  mis-t-ik,  ]  am  sweeping  something,  my  doing  something  with  a  broom, 
tin  lats-t-ah,  1  scratched  it,  from  lats,  finger  nail, 
tin  qaq-t-ik,  1  am  roasting  it,  from  qaq,  fire. 

I  have  not  been  able  to  find  any  rule  to  determine  which  nouns 
made  into  verbs  of  Class  III  take  the  sign -of  the  agent  and  which 
do  not.  It  must  be  confessed  that  the  idea  of  the  agent  is  implied 
in  verbs  of  Class  III  a  quite  as  much  as  in  those  of  III  b. 

Class  HI  a.   tin  o'on-ik,  1  am  doing  something  with  a  gun. 

Class  111  b.  tin  mis-t-ik,  1  am  doing  something  with  a  broom. 

Root  in  kin  and  kun.  All  adjectives  and  some  nouns  are  made 
into  transitive  verbs  of  Class  III  by  being  used  with  the  particle 
kin  or  kun,  evidently  meaning  "  to  make,"1  the  sign  of  the  agent 
and  the  usual  tense  endings : 2 

Seler  (p.  92)  states  that  the  t  denotes  compulsion; 

alkab,  speed.  tsuuk,  coal,  live  coals. 

in  alkab-t-ah,  1  made  him  run.  in  tsuuk-t-ah,  1  warmed  something. 

These  forms  are  much  better  explained  by  considering  the  t  as  agent; 

1  made  use  of  speed  for  something. 

1  made  use  of  live  coals  for  something. 

1  This  root,  unlike  be,  is  not  found  in  the  Spanish  dictionaries  in  this  sig- 
nificance. The  San  Francisco  and  Perez  give  the  verb  kun,  kun-ah  meaning 
"  conjuror  hechizando,  encantar."  Perez  gives  kin-il  as  meaning  "  herida 
reciente." 

2  Beltran  (§  91)  has  this  form  made  with  kun  or  yenkun  with  vowel  stems. 
He  does  not,  however,  give  the  sign  of  the  agent,  t.  He  places  these  verbs  in 
his  4th  Conjugation.  1  could  find  no  present  use  of  the  form  in  yenkun  for 
vowel  stems.  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  9b,  ob.)  and  Coronel  have  the  form  in  kun. 
San  Buenaventura  changes  the  kun  to  kin  when  the  vowel  of  the  stem  is  o : 

t'on-tal,  to  lower  oneself.  t'on-kin-ah,  to  lower  something. 

Seler  (p.  92,  93)  explains  these  forms  made  with  kun  or  kin  as  a  means  of 
deriving  a  transitive  idea  from  nominal  themes  in  the  same  way  as  using  ah 
which  has  already  been  discussed  (p.  56).  All  his  examples  are  in  the  past 
tense,  using  ah : 

in  yaab-kun-ah,  1  multiplied  it.  in  kul-kin-ah,  1  established  it. 

If  these  were  to  be  written  in  the  present  we  would  have; 

in  yaab-kun-t-ik  in  kul-kin-t-ik. 

and  they  would,  therefore,  have  to  be  explained  quite  differently  according  to 
Seler. 

Lopez  (§  95)  has  the  form  in  kun-s-ik  as  well  as  in  kun-t-ik.  The  first  is,  of 
course,  the  causal  and  the  second  is  that  of  the  agent.  He  gives  only  one  ex- 
ample of  the  use  of  the  causal  form; 

toh-kun-s-ik,  to  erect,  literally,  to  cause  to  make  straight. 


58  GRAMMAR 

tin  pim-kun-t-ik,  1  strengthen  something,  I  make  something  by  means  of 

thickness. 
tin  keel-kun-t-ik-ets,  1  make  you  cold,  1  make  someone  by  means  of  cold, 

you. 
tin  mul-kun-t-ik,  ]  pile  up  something. 
tin  kal-kun-t-ik,  1  make  him  drunk, 
tin  kal-kin-t-k-im-ba,  1  make  myself  drunk. 

Verbs  in  -ankil.  There  is  a  class  of  verbs  made  from  nouns  with 
the  suffix  -ankil.1 

qiq,  blood,  tin  qiq-il-ankil,  1  am  afraid,  1  am  trembling. 

sisit',  leap,  tin  sisit'-ankil,  1  am  leaping. 

al,  weight,  burden,  tun  al-ankil,  she  is  giving  birth. 

sakal,  ant,  tun  sakal-ankil,  he  is  crawling. 

eel,  egg,  tun  eel-ankil,  she  is  laying  eggs. 

The  past  of  these  forms  is  made  by  dropping  the  ending  k-il  and 
adding  the  sign  of  the  past  and  the  verbal  pronoun. 

qiqil-an-ah-en,  1  was  afraid,  1  trembled, 
sisit'-an-ah-en,  1  leaped. 

A  second,  but  seldom  used,  form  of  the  past  is  made  by  dropping 
the  suffix  and  following  the  usual  rule  for  verbs  of  Class  III : 2 
qiqil-n-ah-en,  sisit'-n-ah-en. 

The  future  retains  the  entire  suffix: 
hen  qiqil-an-k-il-e,  1  shall  be  afraid. 

Class  IV.  These  verbs  are  intransitive  and  express  a  quality 
or  condition,  having  the  idea  of  the  auxiliary  "  to  be."  They  use 
the  verbal  pronoun.3 

keel-en,  1  am  cold.  winik-en,  1  am  a  man. 

1  Beltran  (§  87)  states  that  these  verbs  are  in  -ankal,  not  -ankil.  He  finds 
fault  (§84)  with  San  Buenaventura  for  giving  the  forms  in  -ankil  which  is  the 
same  as  that  used  today.  Seler  (p.  84)  follows  Beltran  in  using  -ankal.  1  found 
both  forms  with  that  in  -ankil  more  commonly  used. 

2  Beltran  (§  87)  has  these  forms  and  also  one  where  only  the  -il  of  the  suf- 
fix is  dropped  in  the  preterit; 

qiqil-an-k-ah-i,  he  was  afraid. 

3  Beltran  has  the  same  forms  and  he  points  out  (§§  185,  186)  the  mistake 
of  San  Buenaventura  in  using  the  verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t  as 

batab-t-en  for  batab-en. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  former  is  incorrect.    San  Buenaventura  uses  the 
verbal  pronoun  without  t  when  the  expression  is  negative; 

ma  en  batab  or  men  batab. 


THE  VERB  59 

The  form  of  the  verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t  may  be  used 
pleonastically  with  the  predicative  expression  with  the  simple  ver- 
bal pronoun: 

ten  batab-en,  I  am  the  one  who  is  chief.1 

The  past  of  these  verbs  is  formed  by  adding  an  h  sound  before 
the  verbal  pronoun : 

keel-h-en,  ]  was  cold.  kohan-h-ets,  you  were  ill. 

It  is  interesting  to  compare  these  forms  with  those  of  verbs  in 
other  classes.  The  past  tense  of  verbs  of  Class  I  are  identical 
in  form  with  those  of  the  present  tense  of  Class  IV: 

lub-en,  1  fell,  1  am  a  faller.  kohan-en,  1  am  ill. 

This  h  or  hi,  the  sign  of  the  past,  with  these  verbs  may  be  de- 
rived from  the  same  source  as  the  -ah,  the  sign  of  the  past,  with 
the  transitive  verb  of  Classes  I,  and  III,  and  with  the  intransitive 
of  Class  111. 

The  suffix  -tal,  seen  in  verbs  of  Class  II,  may  be  used  with  verbs 
of  this  class  to  denote  an  habitual  condition: 

keel-tal-en,  1  am  always  cold.  kohan-tal-en,  1  am  always  ill. 

The  verb  yan  or  yantal  comes  in  this  class.2  It  has  the  meaning 
"  there  is  "  or  "  there  is  present."  It  forms  its  present  by  adding 
the  verbal  pronoun  directly  to  the  root,  its  past  with  h  or  hi  and 
the  verbal  pronoun,  and  its  future  by  the  use  of  the  nominal  pro- 
noun, -tal,  and  the  sign  of  the  future,  -e : 

yan-en  Ho,  1  am  in  Merida. 

yan-h-en  Ho,  or  yan-hi-en,  1  was  in  Merida. 

hen  yan-tal-e,  1  shall  be  in  Merida. 

The  future  may  also  be  made  by  use  of  the  particle  bin  and  the 
suffix  -ak  with  the  verbal  pronoun: 

bin  yan-ak-en,  or  bin  yan-k-en-ak. 

1  Compare  Seler  (p.  74).  He  would  translate  this  as  "  1  am  he,  1  am  chief." 
San  Buenaventura  (fol.  37)  considers  the  forms,  ten,  tets,  etc.  as  the  verb  "  to 
be."  Seler  (p.  79)  points  out  this  mistake.  It  is  quite  clear  that  the  verbal 
pronoun  alone  has  the  verbal  idea. 

2  Compare  Beltran  (§§  198-200)  who  gives  the  form  as  yanhal.  This  change 
from  tal  to  hal  is  the  same  as  that  seen  in  the  inchoative  forms  (p.  90).  Com- 
pare also  Seler,  p.  82. 


60  GRAMMAR 

This  verb  may  also  have  the  meaning  to  have,  to  take,  to  hold. 
In  this  case  the  particle  t  or  ti  may  or  may  not  be  used  with  the 
verbal  pronoun: x 

yan-en  or  yan-t-en  ke,  1  have  a  deer,  literally  there  is,  to  me,  a  deer. 

When  this  verb  is  used  with  the  negative  ma,  there  is  a  contraction 
in  the  present.   This  is  not  seen  commonly  in  the  other  tenses: 
ma-yan  becoming  mi  nan,  there  is  none, 
ma-yan-h-i,  there  was  none.2 

Class  V.  This  is  composed  of  the  irregular  and  defective  verbs 
of  which  there  is  not  a  great  number.  Among  them  are  the  fol- 
lowing : 

Bin-el,  to  go.   This  verb  is  usually  found  without  its  suffix  -el: 
tin  bin  or  bin-in-kah  rather  than  tin  bin-el  or  bin-el-in-kah. 

Here  there  is  no  vocalic  harmony  between  the  vowel  of  the  root 
and  that  of  the  suffix.  All  forms  are  regular,  belonging  to  Class  I, 
except  the  future  stem  sik,  and  the  imperative  sen: 

bin-en,  1  went. 

bin  sik-en,  or  hen  bin-e,  1  shall  go. 

Tal-el,  to  come.    This  verb  is  usually  found  without  the  suffix 
-el.    All  forms  are  regular,  belonging  to  Class  I,  except  the  im- 
perative which  is  kot-en.    The  imperatives 
kon,  kon-es,  ko§,  ko§-es\ 

correspond  in  meaning  to  the  Spanish  "  Vamos"  These  forms 
show  the  dual  and  plural  endings.3 

Qat,  desire.  The  verb  is  really  a  noun  meaning,  "  a  wish."  It 
is  only  found  used  with  the  nominal  pronoun  with  no  time  suffixes. 

1  Both  Beltran  (§§  199,  200)  and  Lopez  (§  111)  make  a  distinction  between 
yan  meaning  "  tener  "  and  yan  meaning  "  haber."  With  the  latter  meaning 
yan  is  defective  being  used  only  in  the  3d  person. 

2  Lopez  (§  113)  gives  the  form  for  the  past  as  ma  t-an-hi.  1  do  not  recognize 
this  form.  For  the  positive  form  corresponding  to  this  he  gives  yan-hi,  which 
agrees  with  the  one  given  here. 

3  Compare  Beltran  (§§  204-206)  for  the  forms  tal-el  and  bin-el.  Beltran 
(§  207)  gives  the  verb  il,  to  see,  as  an  irregular  verb.  1  fail  to  find  any  irregular- 
ity in  its  conjugation.  In  §§  225,  226,  he  discusses  the  forms  kon,  kones,  etc. 
Among  several  verbs  given  by  Beltran  as  irregular  appears  the  verb  ken,  1 
say,  k-en-h-i,  1  said.  1  found  this  verb  very  little  used.  In  its  place  the  noun 
fan,  speech  or  word,  is  used  as  a  verb  of  Class  111  with  a  past  in  t'an[n]-ah 
and  the  verbal  pronoun. 


THE  VERB  61 

This  stem  should  not  be  confounded  with  qat  meaning  "  question, 
to  question."  This  latter  is  found  in  all  forms  as  a  verb  of  Class 
III.   The  verb  with  qat  conveys  the  idea  of  an  optative  mode. 

in  qat  bin  (el),  1  desire  to  go,  my  wish  to  go. 

in  qat  o'ib,  1  desire  to  write, 

in  qat  in  wil-e,  1  desire  to  see  it. 

in  qat  in  wuq  ha,  1  desire  to  drink  water. 

The  regular  verb  o'ibol  (Class  III  b)  is  also  used  as  a  verb  mean- 
ing "  to  desire."  In  tenses  other  than  the  present  it  is  more  fre- 
quently employed  than  the  verb  qat:1 

tin  o'ibol-t-ah  ha,  1  desired  water. 

P'ek,  dislike.   This  is  used  with  the  nominal  pronoun.   It  seems 
to  be  found  only  in  the  present  tense: 2 
in  p'ek  bin(el),  1  dislike  to  go. 

Tak,  taktal,  desire.  The  verb  made  from  this  noun  differs  from 
the  two  preceding  forms  in  the  fact  that  the  nominal  or  possessive 
pronoun  is  used  with  the  true  verb  and  also  that  all  tenses  can  be 
expressed.3   The  conjugation  follows  that  of  verbs  in  Class  IV: 

tak  or  tak-tal  in  wen-el,  1  desire  to  sleep. 

tak-hi  in  wen-el,  1  desired  to  sleep. 

bin  tal-ak  in  wen-el,  1  shall  desire  to  sleep. 

There  is  also  a  reduplicated  form,  tak-i-tak  which  expresses  the 
idea  of  desiring  something  very  much,  "  tener  gana  6  deseo  vehe- 
mente  de  hacer  algo." 

Qabet,  necessary.  This  is  used  either  with  nouns  or  with  verbs. 
In  the  first  case  the  verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t  or  ti  is 
used: 

qabet  t-en  wa,  1  need  tortillas;  literally,  necessary  to  me,  tortillas. 
qabet-hi  t-en  wa,4  past  tense. 

1  Compare  Lopez,  §  126. 

2  As  pointed  out  by  Lopez  (§  128),  in  other  tenses  the  regular  verb,  p'ek-t-ik, 
p'ek-t-ah,  p'ek-t-e,  is  used. 

3  The  Perez  dictionary  gives  the  form  as  tak-tal.  Beltran  (§  224)  has  the 
past  in  tal-hi.    Lopez  (§  129)  writes  "  Apenas  se  usa  mas  que  en  presented 

4  Lopez  (§  122)  uses  the  inchoative  form  in  tsah  for  the  past.  Compare 
p.  90. 


62  GRAMMAR 

When  a  verb  is  used,  the  form  takes  the  nominal  or  possessive 
pronoun  as  with  tak  and  the  conjugation  follows  verbs  in  Class  IV. 
The  verbal  pronoun  with  t  may  be  omitted: 

qabet  in  bin(el),  1  need  to  go,  literally,  necessary,  my  going. 
qabet  h-in  bin(el),  past  tense. 
qabet  in  puts-ik,  1  need  to  hit  him. 

Suk.  accustom.    This  has  forms  similar  to  the  preceding: 

suk  t-en  in  han-t-ik  wa,  1  am  accustomed  to  eat  tortillas,  literally,  cus- 
tomary to  me,  my  eating  something,  tortillas. 

The  following  irregular  verbs  are  impersonal,  using,  in  most 
cases,  the  nominal  pronoun  of  the  3d  person  before  the  form  in- 
troducing the  expression.  The  conjugation  generally  follows  that 
of  Class  IV: 

Pat,  patal,  ability.1 

u  pat  in  bin(el),  1  am  able  to  go,  literally,  its  ability,  my  going. 

u  pat  h-in  bin(el),  1  was  able  to  go. 

hu  pat  in  bin-e  or, 

bin  patak  in  bin,  1  shall  be  able  to  go. , 

The  second  verb  in  each  case  may  take  the  suffix,  -e  when  it  is 
intransitive : 

u  pat  in  han-l-e  (han-al-e),  1  am  able  to  eat. 
u  pat  in  qai-y-e,  1  am  able  to  sing. 
u  pat  in  bin-e,  1  am  able  to  go. 

Nama,  obligation: 2 
u  nama  in  bin  (el),  I  ought  to  go. 

Tuub,  tuubul,  to  forget.    I  found  this  verb  only  in  one  form: 3 
tuub  ten,  1  forgot. 

1  Lopez  (§  123)  has  this  and  several  of  the  following  forms  used  in  connec- 
tion with  the  nominal  pronoun  compounded  with  k,  as  ku.  He  gives  this  form 
as: 

ku  pah-tal. 
He  agrees  with  me  in  the  past  as  he  drops  the  suffix  -tal  and  his  stem  seems  to 
change  from  pah  to  pat. 

He  is  inclined  to  use  the  stem  with  the  suffix  in  -1  in  the  present.  My  forms 
usually  omit  the  suffix. 

2  Perez  (1898)  gives  the  form  nan,  necessario.  Compare  a  corresponding 
form,  nakma,  given  by  Beltran  (§  216). 

3  Lopez  (§  118)  gives  the  following  forms  for  this  verb: 


THE  VERB  63 

The  active  verb  is : 

tuub-s-ik,  tuub-s-ah,  tuub-s-e. 

tin  tuub-s-ik,  1  am  forgetting  something. 

Qaah,  qaahal,  to  remember.  The  verbal  pronoun  in  this  and 
several  of  the  following  forms  takes  t-  or  ti-: 

u  qaah  £-en,  1  remember,  literally,  its  memory  to  me. 

qaah [h]i  t-en,  past  tense. 

bin  qaah-ak  t-en,  future  tense. 

The  active  verb  is : 
qaah-s-ik,  qaah-s-ah,  qaah-s-e. 

Tsik-pahal.    to  appear.    This  is  a  reflexive  verb  from  the  stem 
tsikaan,  visible  and  has  the  literal  meaning,  to  appear  itself: 
u  tsik-pahal  t-en,  it  appears  to  me. 

tsik-pa-hi  t-en,  past  tense. 
bin  tsik-pah-ak  t-en,  future  tense. 

Utsul,  to  succeed,  to  happen : x 

u  y-utsul  t-en,  it  happens  to  me,  me  sucede. 

uts-hi  t-en,  past  tense. 
bin  uts-ak  t-en,  future  tense. 

Verbs  with  Stems  in  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -til.  For  greater  clearness 
it  has  seemed  best  to  describe  these  verbs  as  a  whole  although 
they  are  taken  up  under  other  headings.  This  ending  in  -1  preceded 
by  the  vowel  similar  to  that  of  the  root  signifies  that  the  subject 
of  the  verb  is  affected  by  the  action  of  the  verb. 

These  forms  in  -1  are  found  in  the  following  places: 

(a)  Present  of  the  intransitive  in  Class  I. 
tin  lub-ul,  1  am  falling,  1  am  affected  by  a  fall. 

(b)  Present  of  the  intransitive  in  Class  III  a,  showing  a  passive 
relationship : 

tin  o'on-ol,  1  am  being  shot,  my  being  affected  by  a  gun. 

ku  tuubul  ten,  1  forget. 

tuub  ten,  1  forgot. 

bin  tuubuc  ten,  1  shall  forget. 
Beltran  (§  203)  has  the  form: 

ma  in  tubul  tets  or  ti  tets,  do  not  forget  me. 
1  For  other  irregular  forms,  see  Beltran,  §§  201,  202,  207,  211,  212,  229. 


64  GRAMMAR 

The  causal  s  preceding  the  form  in  -1  is  found  in  the  following 
place: 

(q)  Present  of  the  intransitive  in  Class  I  showing  a  passive 
relationship : 

tin  kim-s-il,  1  am  being  killed,  my  being  affected  by  someone  causing  me 
to  die. 

(d)  Verbs  in  Class  III  b  which  form  the  transitive  by  using  t, 
the  sign  of  the  agent,  have  the  form  -tal  regardless  of  the  vowel 
of  the  root  to  show  a  passive  relationship : 

tun  mis-t-al  in  na,  my  house  is  being  swept,  literally,  my  house  is  being 

affected  by  means  of  a  broom. 
tin  yakun-t-al,  1  am  being  loved,  my  being  affected  by  love. 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  foregoing  that  syntactically  the  passive 
relationship  for  verbs  in  Class  III  is  exactly  similar  to  the  active 
forms  of  verbs  in  Class  I. 

Intransitive  Verb.  The  preceding  classification,  as  has  been 
noted,  is  made  up  without  taking  into  consideration  whether  the 
verb  is  intransitive  or  transitive.  It  is  well  to  consider  these  forms 
by  themselves  and  endeavor  to  show  how  the  intransitive  and 
transitive  are  built  up. 

Intransitive  verbs  are  found  in  all  classes  of  verbs  and  they  are 
distinguished  from  the  transitive  of  each  respective  class  by  cer- 
tain differences  in  the  method  of  conjugation,  by  different  pro- 
nouns or  different  time  suffixes. 

The  simplest  form  of  the  intransitive  verb  is  seen  in  the  use  of 
the  verbal  pronoun  with  verbs  of  Class  IV,  nouns  or  adjective-like 
forms : 

batab-en,  1  am  a  chief.  batab-h-en,  1  was  a  chief. 

In  the  past  of  verbs  of  Classes  I— III  the  stem  appears  with  the 
true  personal  pronoun,  commonly  called  the  objective,  but  here 
spoken  of  as  the  verbal  pronoun.  This  is  the  same  in  form  as  that 
used  as  the  object  of  the  transitive  verb: 

1  a.   ah-en,  1  woke  up.  Ill  a.   nai-n-ah-en,  1  dreamed. 

1  b.    kim-en,  1  died.  Ill  b.   mis-n-ah-en,  1  swept. 

11.       kus-1-ah-en,  1  lived.  IV.      keel-h-en,  1  was  cold. 

Transitive  Verb.  This  is  sharply  distinguished  from  the  in- 
transitive.  The  pronoun  used  with  the  transitive  is  similar  to  the 


THE  VERB  65 

possessive  and  has  been  called  the  nominal  pronoun.  The  connec- 
tion between  the  possessive  and  its  noun  and  the  pronoun  used 
with  the  transitive  is  very  close : 1 

tin  o'on-ik  ke,  1  am  shooting  with  a  gun  a  deer,  literally,  my  gunning  a  deer. 

Two  of  the  classes  of  transitive  verbs  may  be  roughly  classified  as 
regards  instrument  and  cause. 

The  transitive  verb  is  found  in  Classes  I,  III,  and  IV.  Class  II 
is  not  found  in  the  transitive. 

Transitive  to  Intransitive  Form.  Transitive  verbs  may  pass 
over  to  the  intransitive  form  when  the  combined  meaning  of  the 
verb  and  its  object  represents  habitual  action: 

tin  sul-ik  meya,  1  am  finishing  work. 

tin  sul-ah  meya  (transitive  form).  1  finished  work. 

sul-meya-n-ah-en  (intransitive  form),  ]  finished  work. 

tan  sup-ik  taqin,  you  are  spending  money. 

tan  jjup-ah  taqin  (transitive  form),  you  spent  money. 

sup-taqin-n-ah-ets  (intransitive  form),  you  spent  money. 

Both  of  these  verbs  are  in  Class  I  as  the  intransitive  forms  are 
respectively : 

tin  sul-ul,  1  am  finishing. 

sul-en,  1  finished. 

tin  sup-ul,  I  am  spending. 

sup-en,  1  spent. 

1  Seler  (p.  76)  makes  this  same  distinction.  He  writes,  "nur  die  absoluten, 
eines  direkten  Objekts  entbehrenden  V  erbalausdrucke  durch  Prddikatskonstruk- 
tion  mit  dem  Personalpronomen  (my  verbal  pronoun)  gebildet;  die  transitiven 
Verba  dagegen  sind  wurzelhafte  oder  abgeleitete  Nomina,  die  als  solche  mit  dem 
Possessivprdfix  (my  nominal  pronoun)  verbunden  werden."  He  fails  to  state, 
however,  that  it  is  only  in  the  past  tenses  of  the  intransitive,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  verbs  of  Class  IV,  that  the  "personal  pronoun"  is  used.  The  "pos- 
sessive prefix"  is  used  in  the  present  and  future  tenses  of  both  transitive  and 
intransitive  forms: 

tin  lub-ul,  1  am  falling. 
lub-en,  1  fell. 

tin  lub-s-ik,  1  am  destroying  something. 

tin  lub-s-ah,  1  destroyed  something. 
He  elaborates  (p.  89)  his  former  statement  and  writes,  "Die  Maya-Syr achen 
besitzen  also  transitive  aktive  Verben  in  unserem  Sinne  nicht.  Sie  kennen  nur 
Nomina  und  absolute  Verba,  die  einen  Zustand  des  Seins,  eine  Eigenschaft 
oder  eine  Thdtigkeit  bezeichnen,  die  als  Prddikate  zu  einem  Personalpronomen 
oder  einer  dritten  Person  als  Subjekt  konstruirt  werden,  aber  kein  direktes  Objekt 
zu  sich  nehmen  konnen" ' 


66  GRAMMAR 

When  the  verbal  stem  combines  with  an  object  so  closely  that 
the  whole  idea  is  considered  as  an  action  in  itself  and  is  intransi- 
tive, the  verb  passes  into  Class  III  on  account  of  the  method  of 
making  the  past  with  n-ah  and  the  verbal  pronoun.1  This  is  one 
of  the  few  cases  where  a  verb  belonging  to  one  class  passes  over 
into  another.  The  complete  unity  of  the  object  with  the  action  of 
the  verb  is  seen  in  the  fact  that  the  object  is  infixed,  coming  be- 
fore the  sign  of  the  past  and  the  verbal  pronoun.  The  intransitive 
form  for  the  present  is  practically  never  found: 
sul-meya-in-kah. 

These  compounded  forms  may  remain  transitive  when  an  object 
is  expressed.  In  this  case  they  usually  go  in  Class  III  b,  that  class 
using  t  as  the  sign  of  the  agent : 2 

tin  bets-qab-t-ik  Pedro,  I  am  calling  by  means  of  the  hand  Peter, 
tin  tsin-pol-t-ik  winik  1  am  reverencing  the  man,  literally,  1  am  inclining 
(by  means  of  the  head)  the  man. 

Intransitive  to  Transitive  Form.  The  intransitive  verb  may 
pass  to  the  transitive  in  form  but  it  retains  the  intransitive  mean- 
ing by  the  use  of  the  root,  be  to  make,  and  the  sign  of  the  agent: 3 

tal  tin  be-t-ik,  I  am  coming,  1  am  making  it  to  come. 

qai  tin  be-t-ik,  1  am  singing,  1  am  making  it  by  means  of  song. 

Tense  in  the  Verb.  The  Spanish  grammars  have,  in  addition 
to  the  present  tense  of  the  Indicative,  a  Preterito  Imperfecto,  Pre- 
terite Perfecto,  Preterito  Pluscuamperfecto,  Futuro  Imperfecto,  and  a 
Futuro  Perfecto.  The  Present,  Preterito  Perfecto,  and  Futuro  Im- 
perfecto are  the  true  present,  past  and  future  respectively.  The 
Preterito  Imperfecto,  is  made  from  the  present  by  the  addition  of 
kutsi  (cuchi),4  the  Preterito  Pluscuamperfecto  from  the  Preterito 

1  Beltran  (§  58)  has  the  same  form  in  the  past  and  notes  that  San  Buena- 
ventura makes  the  past  of  these  forms  by  the  addition  of  the  verbal  pronoun 
to  the  root  compounded  with  the  object: 

tsa-ha-n-en,  1  carried  water. 
The  correct  form  is, 

tsa-ha-n-ah-en. 
Beltran  adds  that  the  form  given  by  San  Buenaventura  may  have  been  cor- 
rect at  the  time  the  latter  studied  the  language. 

2  Compare  Lopez,  §  92. 

3  Compare  p.  54,  and  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  172,  173. 

4  The  form  kutsi  is  undoubtedly  from  ka  and  utsul,  utsi,  or  utsuk  given  by 
Beltran  (§  222)  as  an  irregular  verb  meaning  "to  happen"  or  "to  succeed" 


THE  VERB  67 

Perfecto  by  the  addition  of  ili  kutsi,  and  the  Future  Perfecto  from 
the  Futuro  Imperfecto  by  the  addition  of  ili  kotsom.  The  forms 
made  by  the  words  kutsi,  ili  kutsi,  and  ili  kostom  seem  to  me  to 
be  more  or  less  artificial  and  are  the  result,  in  the  main,  of  the  de- 
sire to  present  every  tense  known  to  the  Spaniard  in  his  own 
language.1 

I  found  the  form  utsi  instead  of  kutsi  could  be  used  to  make  a 
past  from  the  present  stem  but  it  was  not  the  common  way  of 
expressing  this  tense. 

The  tenses  in  the  Maya,  as  spoken  today,  are:  present,  a  past, 
a  past  denoting  action  just  completed,  a  past  denoting  action 
completed  some  time  ago,  a  future  denoting  action  just  about  to 
take  place  and  a  future  denoting  action  to  take  place  some  time 
in  the  future.2 

(acaecer,  suceder,  acontecer).  The  form  of  the  past  as  given  in  the  early  gram- 
mars use  this  verb  as  a  sort  of  auxiliary  with  the  present  tense  to  form  the  past; 

nak-al-in-kah  kutsi,  1  climbed,  literally,  I  am  climbing,  it  happened. 

Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  15  ob.)  make  a  distinction,  using  kutsi 
for  distant  past  time  and  katsi  for  time  just  past. 

1  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  188,  189)  expresses  the  idea  of  the  artificiality  of 
these  forms  as  follows:  —  "Los  tiempos  que  aparecen  aqui  como  ejemplos,  son 
tornados  de  la  gramdtica  de  Fray  Pedro  de  Beltran.  Observando,  sin  embargo, 
el  comun  lenguaje  de  los  mayas,  se  ve  que  no  todos  estdn  en  uso.  SEn  qui  consiste 
esto?  SSerd  que  ya  no  es  menester  emplearlosl  Esto  es  inadmisible,  porque  la 
misma  causa  que  obro  para  establecerlos  subsiste:  la  necesidad  de  expresar  ac- 
ciones  que  forzosamente  tienen  que  corresponder  a  tiempo  presente,  pasado,  6 
venidero.  Y  los  que  indican  absolutamente  estos,  subsisten;  los  que  vienen  a  ser 
como  intermedios:  segun  la  expresion  de  la  Academia,  los  cuales  en  castellano  se 
forman  con  verbos  auxiliares  solamente,  son  los  que  no  se  usan.  Pero  la  razon 
estd  en  que  hay  otros  medios  de  expresar  los  tiempos  correspondientes  a  estas 
acciones  cuando  se  relacionan  con  los  de  otras  para  significar  respecto  de  ellas 
pasado  6  futuro,  como  habia  hecho,  habre"  hecho,  etc.  Lo  habia  hecho  cuando  lleg- 
aste.  Lo  habre'  hecho  cuando  llegues.  La  forma  del  preUrito  pluscuamperfecto,  por 
ejemplo,  segun  el  P.  Beltran,  es  binen  ili  katsi,  6  kutsi  como  pone  y  se  usaba  antes. 

Yo  me  habia  ido.  En  vez  de  esta  forma  los  mayas  usan:  " 

o'ook  ili  in  bin  ka  t  quts-ets-e,  me  habia  ido  cuando  llegaste. 
"  Si  se  dijera  ": 

ka  t  quts-ets-e,  binen  ili  katsi. 
"  ningun  maya  lo  entenderia." 

2  Seler  (p.  102)  writes,  "Das  Maya  unterscheidet  sich  von  den  verwandten 
guatemaltekischen  Sprachen  sehr  bestimmt  dadurch,  dass  die  Tempusprdfixe  in 
ihm  nur  eine  sehr  unbedeutende  Rolle  spielen.  Im  Prateritum  treten,  wie  erwdhnt, 
die  Prdfixe  t  und  c  auf.    Das  ist  wichtig,  weil  es  uns  beweist,  dass  das  Maya  der 


68  GRAMMAR 

Tense  is  expressed  by  means  of  suffixes  added  to  the  root  in  ad- 
dition to  a  time  particle  used  with  the  nominal  pronoun.  The 
former  differ  in  the  transitive  and  intransitive. 

An  interesting  and  unusual  feature  connected  with  tense  in 
Maya  is  the  fact  that  the  forms  of  the  pronoun  vary  in  the  in- 
transitive according  to  the  tense  employed. 

Tense  in  the  Intransitive  Verb.  Present  Time.  This  is  expressed 
in  several  ways.  The  most  common  is  the  use  of  the  verbal  stem 
with  the  nominal  pronoun  compounded  with  the  pronominal  sign 
of  present  time,  tan.   This  is  found  in  all  verbs  of  Classes  I,  II,  III : 

Class  1  a,  tin  het-el,  I  am  performing  the  act  of  opening. 

b,  tin  kim-il,  1  am  dying. 
Class  11,   tin  tsi-tal,  1  am  lying  down. 

tin  tsen-tal,  1  am  listening. 
Class  111,  tin  o'on,  1  am  shooting. 

tin  siit',  1  am  jumping. 

tin  o'iib,  1  am  writing. 

With  verbs  of  motion  and  a  few  others  a  second  set  of  forms  for 
the  present  is  found  composed  of  the  nominal  pronoun  and  the 
particle  -ka  or  -kah  suffixed  to  the  stem.  These  may  be  called 
"  duratives  ": l 

Mittel,  welche  in  den  anderen  Sprachen  sich  Geltung  verschafft  haben,  nicht  ganz 
entbehrt.  Aber  diese  Prdfixe  treten  durchaus  nicht  bestimmt  und  regelmdssig  auf. 
Und  Prdfixe,  welche  es  gestatten,  die  verschiedenen  Tempora  zu  unterscheiden, 
haben  sich  nicht  herausgebildet.  Dieses  Sprache  ist  daher  genothigt,  zu  anderen 
Aushulfsmitteln  zu  greifen,  um  die  nothige  Prdzision  in  der  Tempusbezeichnung 
zu  erreichen,  und  siefindet  solche  in  periphrastischen  Konstruktionen."  It  seems 
to  me  that  Seler  is  quite  incorrect  in  this  statement.  The  Maya  has  very  defi- 
nite tense  signs.  Seler  fails  in  several  cases  to  recognize  the  ik  and  the  ah  of 
the  transitive  verb  as  tense  signs.  He  mentions  the  prefix  t  as  a  sign  of  the  past 
in  the  intransitive  only  in  the  1st  person  with  k  for  the  3d  person.  The  t  is 
used  in  all  persons  as  a  sign  for  the  past  and  the  k  is  never  found. 

1  These  forms  are  given  by  Coronel,  San  Buenaventura,  and  Beltran  in 
their  1st  Conjugation. 

Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  in  their  paradigms  and  Seler  (p.  102),  also 
give  the  forms  in  -kah  for  the  present  of  the  transitive  verb  (2d,  3d,  and  4th 
Conjugations) : 

kambes-ah-in-kah  Pedro,  1  am  teaching  Peter. 
This  form  in  in-kah  is  not  used  in  the  transitive.  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  2  ob.) 
recognizes  the  proper  form  in  his  discussion  of  the  pronoun,  ten: 

ten  yakun-ik  (properly,  yakun-t-ik),  1  shall  love  someone. 
Both  Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  use  the  form  in  -ik  rather  than  in  in-kah 


THE  VERB  69 

Class     1,  lubul-in-kah,  contracted  to  lub-1-in-kah,  1  am  falling. 

nakal-in-kah,  contracted  to  nak-1-in-kah,  1  am  ascending. 

bin[el]-in-kah,  1  am  going. 
Class  11,  o'on-in-kah,  1  am  shooting. 

It  should  be  noted  that  in  these  forms  the  pronoun  has  no  time 
particle.  This  -kah  is  probably  the  root  of  a  defective  verb  mean- 
ing, "  to  do."  The  literal  translation  of  the  form  lubul-in-kah 
would  probably  be,  "  affected  by  the  act  of  a  fall,  my  doing."  l 

in  asking  a  question  when  the  pronoun  is  used  as  the  object  of  the  transitive 
verb : 

mas  kambes-ik-ets,  who  is  showing  you? 
The  -ik  form  is  also  used  by  them  when  one  verb  follows  another,  especially 
is  this  so  (fol.  72)  when  an  active  verb  follows  a  neuter  and  the  neuter  does  not 
denote  an  action: 

tal-u-kah  in  boo-t-ik  in  p'a§,  1  am  on  the  point  of  paying  my  debt. 

In  the  discussion  of  the  pronoun  en,  ets,  etc.  (fol.  3)  San  Buenaventura  gives 
the  form  in  in-kah: 

yakun-ah  in  kah  et§,  1  love  you. 
But  in  fol.  16  ob.  he  states  that  the  form  in  -ik  is  used  if  a  noun  preceded  the 
verb: 

Pedro  kambe-s-ik  Juan,  Peter  is  showing  John. 
There  is  therefore  great  inconsistency  in  these  statements.  Beltran  points  out 
(§§  153-157)  at  length  why  San  Buenaventura  is  wrong  in  giving  the  form  in 
in-kah  as  a  transitive,  thus  making  no  distinction  between  the  transitive  and 
the  intransitive.  The  same  criticism  also  applies  to  the  forms  of  Coronel  and 
of  Seler  (p.  102). 

The  latter  (p.  103)  writes  that  he  has  followed  the  more  ancient  authority 
of  San  Buenaventura  rather  than  "  sein  jilngerer  Kollege,"  Beltran,  and  he  ac- 
cepts the  use  of  the  form  in  in-kah  for  transitives  as  well  as  intransitive  verbs.  As 
pointed  out  above,  San  Buenaventura,  Coronel,  and  Seler  are  incorrect  here. 

1  Beltran  (§  209)  gives  -kah  as  the  root  of  the  verb  meaning  "  to  do."  He 
points  out  that  it  is  found  only  in  the  present  stem,  the  past  being  made  by  the 
addition  of  kutsi.  He  finds  fault  with  San  Buenaventura  for  giving  kibah  and 
kib  for  the  past  and  future  of  the  form  kah.  Buenaventura  is  inconsistent  in 
his  forms  for  the  future  as  these  forms  in  his  3d  Conjugation  are  made  with  ib 
added  to  the  root. 

Seler  (p.  102)  explains  the  -kah  in  an  entirely  different  way.  He  derives  it 
from  kah,  "  a  village  or  settlement  "  and  translates  it  in  the  verb  as  "to  be 
stationary."  This  is  probably  incorrect  as  the  form  is  found  especially  with 
verbs  of  motion. 

Lopez  (§  132)  seems  inclined  to  accept  Beltran's  explanation  that  this  kah 
is  a  defective  verb,  meaning  "  hacer."  It  is  perfectly  true,  as  Lopez  points  out 
that  the  form  in  -kah  may  be  replaced  by  be-t-ik  (see  p.  54),  but  in  the  latter 
form  we  find  the  transitive  ending,  the  sign  of  the  agent,  and  the  root  of  a 
regular  verb. 


70  GRAMMAR 

The  present  tense  in  verbs  of  Class  IV  from  noun  or  adjective 
stems  is  made  by  the  simple  addition  of  the  verbal  pronoun; 1 
keel-en,  1  am  cold, 
kohan-ets,  you  are  ill. 
uo-ob,  they  are  good,  or  the  good  ones. 
winik-en,  contracted  to  winken,  1  am  a  man. 

Future  Time.  In  the  intransitive  of  verbs  in  Classes  J,  II,  and 
III,  future  time  is  expressed  in  much  the  same  way  as  in  the  tran- 
sitive. The  forms  of  the  nominal  pronoun  are  compounded  with 
the  future  time  particle,  he,  and  a  final  -e  is  suffixed  to  the  present 
stem: 

Class     1  a.   hen  (he-in)  nak-al-e,  contracted  to  nak-l-e,  1  shall  climb. 
Class     I  b.   hen  kim-il-e,  contracted  to  kim-l-e,  1  shall  die. 
Class    11.      he-k  kus-tal-e,  we  shall  live. 
Class  111  a.   hen  qai-y-e,  1  shall  sing. 
hen  o'on-e,  1  shall  shoot. 
Class  111  6.    hen  mis-e,  1  shall  sweep. 

Indefinite  time  in  the  future  is  expressed  by  prefixing  the  root, 
bin,  of  the  verb  "  to  go."  When  this  is  used  with  verbs  of  Class  I 
the  shortened  stem  without  -1  is  employed  and  the  suffix  -ak  added 
before  the  verbal  pronoun:2 

Class     1  a.  bin  nak-ak-en,  contracted  to  bin  nak-en,3  1  am  going  to 

climb. 
Class     1  b.   bin  kim-fik-en,  contracted  to  bin  kim-k-en,  1  am  going  to  die. 

1  These  are  the  verbs  given  by  the  Spanish  grammars  which  use  the  auxi- 
liary "  to  be."  Beltran  shows  the  same  forms  as  those  given  here  and  he  notes 
(§  195)  that  San  Buenaventura  is  incorrect  in  giving  the  auxiliary  as  the 
verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t  as  t-en,  t-et§,  etc.  Beltran  is  entirely  cor- 
rect in  noting  this  mistake.  San  Buenaventura  uses  the  verbal  pronoun  alone 
when  a  negative  expression  is  employed. 

2  This  is  the  form  for  the  Futuro  Imperfecto  given  in  the  old  grammars  for 
the  1st  Conjugation.  The  preceding  form  in  he  is  not  mentioned.  1  was  not 
able  to  find  the  form  of  their  Futuro  Perfecto  in  ili  kutsom.  This  seems  to  me 
to  be  an  impossible  form  as  the  past  stem  is  used  with  ili  kutsom  to  express  a 
future. 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  189-190)  does  not  accept  this  form.  He  gives  as  a  sub- 
stitute; 

o'ook  in  bin  or  o'ook  ili  in  bin  wal  kaan  qut§ket§e,  me  habre  ido  cuando 
llegues. 
He  writes,  "  Si  se  diiera 

kaan  qutsketse,  binen  ili  kotsoom 
ningun  maya  h  entenderia." 

3  Seler  (p.  110)  has  some  very  significant  remarks  on  the  particle  -ak.    He 


THE  VERB  71 

Class  HI  a.  bin  D'on-ak-en,  contracted  to  bin  o'on-k-en,  1  am  going  to 

shoot. 
Class  HI  b.   bin  mis-ak-en,  contracted  to  bin  mis-k-en,  1  am  going  to 

sweep. 

The  future  of  adjective  and  nominal  verbs  of  Class  IV  is  not 
made,  as  one  might  expect,  simply  by  using  the  nominal  pronoun 
and  the  suffix  -e,  but  it  is  expressed  by  the  inchoative  form  by 
adding  the  suffix  -tsal  or  -tal  and  the  final  -e.  The  nominal  future 
pronoun  is  used  with  these  forms : 1 

he-k  kohan-tsal-e,  we  shall  be  sick,  we  shall  become  sick. 
hu  (he-u)  keel-t§al-e,  he  will  be  cold. 

Past  Time.  In  verbs  of  Class  I,  this  is  expressed  by  the  stem 
alone  compounded  with  the  verbal  pronoun.  This  form  is  really  a 
verbal  noun : 2 

lub-en,  I  fell,  literally,  I  am  a  faller. 

bin-ets,  you  went. 

tal-i,  he  came. 

kim-ob,  they  died. 

The  form  of  the  imperative  is  similar  to  the  first  person  singular 
of  the  past  tense,  as  lub-en,  fall,  or  I  fell.  To  distinguish  between 

translates  this  form  on  the  basis  of  a  participial  meaning  as  "it  goes  (will  be) 
raising  itself  I,  i.e.  it  is  in  the  notion  to  raise  itself,  1  =  1  will  raise  myself." 
Compare  Beltran  (§137)  for  the  contraction. 

1  Coronel,  followed  by  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  7  ob.)  gives  a  future  in  om  for 
neuter  verbs.  Beltran  (§  96)  is  entirely  correct  in  pointing  out  that  these  forms 
are  not  found.  By  the  examples  given  both  by  Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura 
it  is  clear  that  they  have  mistaken  the  on  of  the  1st  person  plural,  written  by 
them,  in  this  case,  as  om  for  a  sign  of  the  future. 

2  This  is  given  by  the  Spanish  grammars  as  the  Preterito  Perfecto. 
Friedrich  Miiller  (1882,  v.  2,  p.  309)  considers  this  form  and  others  like 

it  as  exhibiting  "  the  predicative  power  of  the  true  verb."  Adam  (1878a,  p.  155) 
says,  "  The  intransitive  preterit  nak-en  may  seem  morphologically  the  same 
as  the  Aryan  ds-mi)  but  here  again,  nak  is  a  verbal  noun,  as  is  demonstrated 
by  the  plural  of  the  3d  person  nak-ob,  '  the  ascenders.'  Nak-en  comes  to  mean 
'  ascender  [formerly]  me.'  "  Brinton  (1882,  p.  31),  who  quotes  these  authori- 
ties, writes,  "  1  am  inclined  to  think  that  the  French  critic  is  right,  and  that,  in 
fact,  there  is  no  true  verb  in  the  Maya,  but  merely  verbal  nouns,  nomina 
actionis,  to  which  the  pronouns  stand  either  in  the  possessive  or  objective  re- 
lations, or,  more  remotely,  in  the  possessive  relation  to  another  verbal  noun  in 
apposition,  as  kah,  kutsi,  etc.  The  importance  of  this  point  in  estimating  the 
structure  of  the  language  will  be  appreciated  by  those  who  have  paid  any  at- 
tention to  the  science  of  linguistics." 


72  GRAMMAR 

the  two  an  initial  t  sound,  usually  glottalized,  may  be  used  be- 
fore the  verbal  stem : 1 

t'-lub-en,  I  fell. 

t'-bin-en,  I  went. 

t'-tal-en,  I  came. 

The  t*  is  the  same  form  as  that  used  with  the  nominal  pronoun  as 
a  time  particle  for  the  past.  The  V  is  often  retained  throughout 
all  forms  for  the  past : 2 

t'-bin-i,  he  went. 

t'-tal-on,  we  came. 

As  has  been  noted,  the  Spanish  grammars  all  give  a  Preterito 
Imperfecto  using  the  form  of  the  present  followed  by  kutsi  (cuchi) . 
This  is  really  the  past  of  the  verb  utsul,  to  happen.  It  is  recognized 
at  the  present  time  but  is  not  commonly  used.  The  Preterito 
Pluscuamperfecto  in  ili  kutsi  I  was  not  able  to  find.3 

Past  time  in  verbs  of  Class  II  is  expressed  by  adding  to  the  stem 

1  Beltran  (§  85)  gives  the  two  forms  for  the  past,  lub-en  and  t-lub-en.  He 
states  that  the  latter  form  is  the  better.  He  makes  no  mention,  however,  of 
the  fact  that  this  t  is  usually  glottalized. 

Seler  (p.  98,  99)  seems  to  limit  the  use  of  the  t  as  a  sign  of  the  preterite  to 
the  1st  person.   The  t  is  used  in  all  persons  as  a  sign  for  the  past  in  the  intran- 
sitive.   Beltran  (§  81)  gives  his  examples  of  the  use  of  t  in  the  3d  person. 
Palma  y  Palma  (p.  185-187)  uses  an  h  in  place  of  the  t: 

h-bin-en,  I  went. 
He  writes,  "A  binen  se  adiciona  una  ache  sin  poderse  haller  una  razon  mani- 
festo. Acoso  sea  contraccion  de  hi-binen,  particulc  que  se  emplea  en  el  modo 
optativo  para  significar  irio,  segun  el  P.  Beltran."  On  p.  209  he  also  uses  the 
form  in  t,  as  given  above.  In  connection  with  this  he  writes,  "  Pare  distinguir 
el  preterito  perfecto  de  indicativo  del  presei  te  de  imperativo  *  nacen  '  sube,  se 
antepore  una  te  al  primero  como  se  he  visto  antes,  y  a  veces  una  ache  con  sonido  de 
jota.    A  si  se  dice:  " 

t  naken  6  h  naken,  subi. 

t  nakets  6  h  nakets,  subiste. 

2  Seler  (p.  98),  as  already  pointed  out,  limits  the  use  of  t  as  a  sign  of  the  past 
to  the  1st  person  and  states  that  a  k  (c)  is  used  for  the  same  purpose  in  the  3d 
person.  He  seems  to  base  this  statement  on  the  fact  that  kutsi,  from  utsul, 
begins  with  a  k. 

3  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  189)  also  fails  to  find  this  form.  He  gives  as  a  sub- 
stitute; 

o'ook  ili  in  bin  ka  t  qutsetse,  me  habia  ido  cuando  llegaste. 
Lopez  (1914)  follows  Palma  y  Palma  in  giving  the  same  forms  in  o'ook  ili 
(see  p.  67). 


THE  VERB  73 

the  sign  of  the  past,  -ah,  as  seen  also  in  the  past  of  the  intransitive 
verb,  and  the  verbal  pronoun : 

t§i-tal-ah-en,  I  lay  down, 
kus-tal-ah-en  ti  Ho,  I  lived  in  Merida. 

These  forms  are  usually  contracted  into : 

tsi-1-ah-en.1  kus-1-ah-en. 

Past  time  in  verbs  of  Class  III  is  made  by  adding  to  the  stem 
the  sign  of  the  past,  ah,  and  the  verbal  pronoun.  An  n  is  inserted 
between  the  stem  and  the  pronoun.2 

qai-n-ah-en,  1  sang.  o'ib-n-ah-on,  we  wrote. 

baab-n-ah-ets,  you  swam.  o'on-[n]-ah-ob,  they  shot. 

tukul-n-ah-i,  he  thought. 

Verbs  of  Class  III  b,  forming  the  present  of  the  transitive  in 
t-ik;  do  not  show  the  sign  of  the  agent  (t)  when  used  in  the  in- 
transitive : 

tin  o'ib-t-ik,  1  am  writing  something. 

o'ib-n-ah-en,  1  performed  the  action  of  writing. 

1  Beltran  (§  93)  does  not  give  the  uncontracted  forms.  He  gives  only  the 
forms  in  1-ah.  Beltran  follows  Coronel  in  stating  that  verbs  in  -tal  which 
have  an  1  in  the  root  form  the  past  by  substituting  h  for  1-ah.  From  the  verb 
kul-tal  he  would  get  the  past  kul-hi  instead  of  kul-lah-i.  The  complete  un- 
contracted form  would  be  kul-tal-lah-i.  According  to  the  present  method  of 
speaking  this  would  be  contracted  into  kul-ah-i,  not  kul-h-i  according  to 
Beltran.  There  is,  therefore,  no  need  to  make  an  exception  to  verbs  in  -tal 
with  an  1  in  the  stem  as  the  rules  for  contraction  would  attend  to  this. 

Seler  (p.  81)  explains  this  form  by  saying  that  a  t  is  added  in  the  present 
and  an  1  in  the  preterit  and  future. 

2  Beltran  (§  83)  gives  this  same  form  for  his  verbs  of  the  2d,  3d,  and  4th  Con- 
jugations when  they  are  changed  to  the  intransitive.  He  points  out  (§  53)  the 
mistake  of  San  Buenaventura  who  (fol.  6  ob)  makes  these  forms  by  using  ah-n 
with  the  verbal  pronoun  instead  of  n-ah  as  kambe-s-ah-n-en  for  kambe-s-n- 
ah-en.  Beltran  (§  85)  speaks  of  the  forms  in  n-ah  as  the  "  elegant  "  (garboso) 
way  of  expressing  the  past. 

Seler  (p.  83)  states  that  the  suffix -n  has  the  meaning  "to  be  engaged  in  the 
activity  in  question,"  "to  exert  the  activity  in  question."  Later  (p.  110)  he 
states  that  the  -n  is  used  to  derive  intransitive  verbal  themes  from  nouns. 
On  p.  119  he  gives  the  forms  in  n-ah  for  the  past  of  the  intransitive.  He  calls 
this  -ah  (p.  122)  the  "  second  ah."  He  notes  that  this  is  the  "  new  formation  " 
as  San  Buenaventura  gives  only  the  n  for  the. past.  This  is  the  case  where 
San  Buenaventura  (fol.  6  ob)  incorporates  a  noun  with  the  verb  as  a  unit. 
(See  discussion  of  this,  p.  29.)  Seler  overlooks  the  fact  that  in  the  preceding 
paragraph  San  Buenaventura  gives  the  form  with  -ah  and  -a,  as  noted  above, 
although  he  states  that  the  past  is  made  with  n. 


74  GRAMMAR 

This  form  of  the  past  is  the  one  used  when  a  transitive  with 
its  object  is  turned  into  the  intransitive  in  form: 

tin  §ot-ah  tse,  1  cut  wood  (transitive  form). 

so[t]-t§e-n-ah-en,  1  cut  wood  or  1  performed  the  action  of  cutting  wood. 

A  form  of  the  distant  past  with  verbs  of  Class  III  is  expressed  by 
the  duplication  of  the  -ah,  the  sign  of  the  past : 

simbal-n-ah-ah-n-en,  ]  walked  a  long  time  ago. 

An  n  is  added  between  the  final  ah  and  the  pronoun  for  euphony . 
This  form  is  seldom  used. 

Past  time  with  verbs  of  Class  IV  is  made  by  adding  an  h  or  hi 
between  the  stem  and  the  verbal  pronoun: 

keel-h-en,  1  was  cold.  kohan-h-on,  we  were  ill. 

U3-h-i,  he  was  good.  tsupal-h-i,  he  was  a  boy.-  f 

It  is  quite  probable  that  the  actual  time  particle  for  the  past  with 
these  verbs  is  hi,  contracting  with  the  pronoun  to  h-en,  h-ets,  and 
h-i.    The  Mam  dialect  shows  hi  as  this  tense  sign.1 

There  are  a  few  verbs  ending  in  -mal  and  -pal  which  belong  in 
this  Class  IV  although  at  first  sight  they  would  be  placed  in 
Class  I:2 

tepal,  ruler,  king. 

tepal-h-en,  1  ruled,  1  was  a  ruler,  (also  tepal-n-ah-en  possible). 

ol  mal,  to  coagulate,  probably  from  olom,  blood. 

ol  mal-h-i  or  olma-h-i,  past  tense,  3d  person. 

nol  mal,  to  blunt. 

nol  mal-h-i,  or  nol  ma-h-i,  past  tense,  3d  person. 

muts  mal,  to  fade. 

muts  mal-h-i  or  muts  ma-h-i,  past  tense,  3d  person. 

1  Beltran  (§  193)  states  that  the  past  is  formed  by  adding  hi  which  combines 
with  the  pronoun  into  h-en,  h-ets,  and  h-i.  Seler  (p.  79)  follows  San  Buena- 
ventura and  Beltran  in  this  but  he  states  that  the  sign  of  the  past  and  the 
future  really  belong  with  the  noun.  The  verbal  character  of  the  pronoun  is 
sufficiently  clear  to  justify  the  statement  that  the  time  particles  belong,  not 
with  the  noun,  but  with  the  verb. 

2  Lopez  (§  89)  gives  nol-mal  and  muts-mal  as  exceptions  to  the  rule  that 
all  verbs  in  -1  make  the  past  by  dropping  last  syllable  and  adding  the  verbal 
pronoun.  He  recognizes  that  most  verbs  in  m-al  form  the  past  in  the  regular 
way; 

ulm-al,  ulm-en  o'am-al,  o'am-en  lam-al,  lam-en. 


THE  VERB  75 

There  is  a  tense  representing  completed  action  made  with  the 
root  of  the  verb  o'ok,  to  finish.    This  is  found  in  the  transitive  as 
well  as  the  intransitive  in  all  classes  of  verbs : l 
o'in  (o'ok-in)  hanal,  1  have  finished  eating. 

Tense  in  the  Transitive  Verb.  In  addition  to  the  time  particles 
attached  to  the  nominal  pronoun,  tense  in  the  transitive  verb  is 
expressed  by  suffixes. 

Present  Time.  This  is  shown  by  the  suffix  -ik  which  represents 
the  object  in  present  time  or  something  directed  toward  something 
in  present  time.2  When  there  is  a  pronominal  or  nominal  object, 
this  object  is  in  apposition  to  the  idea  contained  in  -ik.3 

Class     la.   tin  puts-ik,  1  am  hitting  something. 

tan  tsul-ik,  you  are  wetting  something. 

1  1  failed  to  find  the  forms  of  the  pluperfect  in  o'okili  given  by  Lopez  (§  77) ; 
o'okili  in  hanal,  1  had  eaten. 

Jt  is  interesting  to  note  that  this  form  is  also  given  by  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  189) 
in  place  of  the  artificial  form  in  ili  katsi  of  the  early  grammars. 

2  Compare  Beltran,  §235. 

3  Seler  (p.  80,  120,  121)  regards  the  -ik  as  showing  a  relative  or  an  infini- 
tive idea.  It  is  certainly  true  that  in  some  cases  the  relative  idea  seems  to  be 
present  as  when  ik  is  compounded  to  make  a  form  like  likil  (p.  93).  But  as 
ik  is  found  only  with  transitives  it  seems  to  denote  an  objective  relation.  One 
of  the  forms  given  by  Seler,  ten-oik-ik,  "  1  obey  him  or  1  am  the  one  who  obeys 
him,"  shows  the  relative  idea  but  this  is  probably  expressed  in  the  t  or  ti  com- 
bined with  the  verbal  pronoun  -en,  making  ten,  and  not  by  the  -ik  in  oikik. 
On  page  74  he  comments  as  follows  on  theform  in  ik,  "  die  Formen  auf  -ik  sind 
echte  gerundivische  Formen,  die  die  su  Bedeutung  eines  ganzen  Relativsatzes  oder 

Umstandssatzes  haben." 

Beltran  (§  172)  gives  the  form  in  -ik  but  uses  the  verbal  pronoun  com- 
pounded with  t  or  ti: 

t-en  kambes-ik  Pedro,  1  am  teaching  Peter. 
The  forms  of  the  pronoun  compounded  with  t  or  ti,  giving  ten,  tets,  toon,  te-es, 
are  used  in  answer  to  the  question,  "  Who  is  doing  this?  "  The  verbal  idea 
is  brought  out  in  the  answer  as  in  the  sentence  above,  "lam  the  one  who  is 
teaching  Peter."  A  more  usual  way  to  express  this,  idea,  however,  is  the  use  of 
the  verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t  together  with  the  nominal  pronoun 
compounded  with  k: 

t-en  k-in  kambes-ik  Pedro,  1  am  the  one  who  is  teaching  Peter  or  1  am 
the  one  who  is  about  to  teach  Peter. 
Beltran  (§168)  also  gives  this  form. 


76  GRAMMAR 

Class     1  b.   tan-k  lub-s-ik  na,  we  are  destroying  the  house;  literally,  in 

present  time,  our  causing  something,  in  present  time,  to 

fall,  the  house. 
tun  kim-s-ik  ke,  he  is  killing  the  deer,  literally;  in  present 

time,  his  causing  something,  in  present  time,  to  die,  the 

deer. 
Class  111  a.   tin  o'on-ik  ke,  he  is  shooting  the  deer;  literally,  in  present 

time,  his  gunning  something,  in  present  time,  the  deer. 
Class  111  b.   tun  mis-t-ik  na,  he  is  sweeping  the  house;  literally,  in  present 

time,  his  doing  something  with  a  broom,  in  present  time, 

the  house. 

When  the  verbal  pronoun  is  used  after  the  suffix  -ik,  there  is  an 
elision  of  the  i  in  -ik : 1 

tun  kam-be-s-ik-en  becomes  tun  kam-be-s-k-en,   he  is   showing  me 
something. 

Future  Time.   Jn  the  transitive  this  is  much  the  same  as  the  im- 
perative.   It  is  expressed  by  the  present  stem  in  -ik  with  the  final 
-e  together  with  the  usual  forms  of  the  nominal  pronoun  com- 
pounded with  the  sign  of  the  future,  he-.    The  causal  s  and  the 
instrumental  t  are  retained  in  Classes  I  b  and  III  b  respectively. 
'  Class      I  a.   hen  het-ik-e,  I  shall  open  something. 
Class      I  b.   hen  kim-s-ik-e,  I  shall  kill  something. 
Class  III  a.   hen  o'on-ik-e,  I  shall  shoot  something. 
Class  III  b.   hen  o'ib-t-ik-e,  I  shall  write  something. 

The  omission  of  the  sign  of  the  present  transitive,  -ik,  is  often 
made,  or  the  i  of  the  suffix  -ik  is  lost  by  syncope: 
hen  kim-s-e,  or  kim-s-k-e, 
hen  o'on-e,  or  o'on-k-e, 
hen  o'ib-t-e,  or  o'ib-t-k-e. 

When  there  is  an  object  expressed,  either  by  a  pronoun  or  a  noun, 
the  final  -e  may  be  added  after  the  object: 

hu  (he-u)  puts-ik  winik-e,  or  wink-e,  he  will  hit  the  man. 
hu  puts-ik-en-e,  or  puts-k-en-e,  he  will  hit  me. 

Indefinite  future  is  expressed  by  prefixing  the  root  of  the  word 
bin,  "  to  go,"  to  the  forms  of  the  nominal  pronoun  and  suffixing 
the  final  -e  to  the  root.2 

1  Compare  Beltran,  §  140. 

2  Beltran  gives  the  form  in  bin  as  the  regular  future  in  the  transitive; 
bin-in-kambes,  2d  Conjugation. 

bin-in-oik-e,  3d  Conjugation. 
bin-in-kanan-t-e,  4th  Conjugation. 


THE  VERB  77 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  stem  in  -ik  is  never  used  with  bin 
nor  does  the  pronoun  have  a  time  particle: 

Class     I  a.   bin  in  het-e,  I  shall  open  something,  I  am  going  to  open 

something. 
Class  III  a.   bin  in  3'on-e,  I  am  going  to  shoot  something. 
Class  III  b.    bin  in  o'ib-t-e,  I  am  going  to  write  something. 

The  final  -e  of  the  future  may  be  lost  by  apocope  when  a  noun 
or  pronoun  is  used  as  the  object.  If  it  is  retained  it  is  added  at 
the  end  of  the  form: 

bin  in  yakun-t-ets  or  bin  in  yakun-t-ets-e,  I  am  going  to  love  you. 

bin  a  hant-wa  or  bin  a  hant-wa-e,  you  will  eat  the  tortilla. 

In  verbs  of  Class  I  b,  using  the  causal  s,  the  future  sign  -e  may 
occur  either  before  or  after  the  s.  The  latter  is  more  common  at 
the  present  time.1 

bin  a  nak-s-e  or  nak-e-s,  you  are  going  to  climb  something. 
bin  a  kim-s-e  or  kim-e-s,  you  are  going  to  kill  something,  you  are  going 
•    to  cause  death  to  something. 

Beltran's  forms  in  the  3d  and  4th  Conjugations  agree  with  corresponding 
forms  given  here,  using  the  final  -e  as  the  sign  of  the  future.  He  shows  the  -e 
before  the  causal  s  in  the  2d  Conjugation  which  corresponds  to  our  rule  as  the 
verbs  in  this  conjugation  belong  to  our  Class  I  b. 

Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  show  forms  similar  to  those  of  Beltran  in 
the  2d  and  4th  Conjugations.  In  the  3d  all  give  a  form  in  b  preceded  by  a  vowel 
similar  to  that  of  the  root: 

bin-in-tal-ab,  bin-in-oik-ib. 

I  was  not  able  to  find  this  form  used  at  the  present  time.  Beltran  (§  112) 
notes  that  the  form  in  -b  is  found  but  the  more  common  form  for  the  future 
is  that  in  -e  for  verbs  of  the  3d  Conjugation. 

Seler  (p.  104,  107)  follows  San  Buenaventura  in  giving  the  future  in  -b. 
He  explains  the  more  common  future  in  -e  as  having  been  derived  from  -eb. 
I  see  no  justification  for  this  as  Beltran  distinctly  states  that  the  form  in  -b  is 
not  common  and  he  limits  it  to  the  3d  Conjugation.  Seler  (p.  109)  makes  the 
following  literal  translation  for  the  future; 

bin-in-kambes,  it  goes  (it  is  in  the  work,  it  will  be)  that  by  me  is  taught  = 
I  shall  teach  him. 
1  The  early  Spanish  grammars  give  as  the  form  of  the  2d  Conjugation 
bin  in  kam-be-s. 
This  probably  corresponds  to  the  alternate  forms  above.    It  might  possibly 
be  explained  as  formerly, 

bin  in  kam-be-s-e, 
the  e  being  lost  after  the  e  of  the  root  be. 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  185)  gives  the  form  agreeing  with  the  latter: 

bin  in  kam-be-s-e. 
Lopez  (§  91)  recognizes  the  two  forms  of  the  future  in  these  verbs. 


78  GRAMMAR 

These  forms  in  bin  may  be  used  in  the  subjunctive  sense,  show- 
ing a  future  possibility. 

I  was  not  able  to  find  the  forms  in  ill  kotsom  given  for  the  Futuro 
Perfecto  in  the  early  grammars.  I  question  them  as  they  are  made 
from  the  past  stem  in  -ah  and  are  used  to  express  a  future. 

Past  Time.  In  the  transitive  this  is  expressed  in  several  ways 
according  to  the  degree  of  the  distance  in  the  past  when  the  action 
took  place.  The  idea  of  past  time  is  brought  out  by  the  particles 
t  or  o'ok  attached  to  the  forms  of  the  nominal  pronoun  or  by  suf- 
fixes on  the  verbal  stem  or  by  both.  The  usual  suffix  expressing 
past  time  is  -ah  which  is  added  to  the  stem.1  This  -ah  for  the  past 
takes  the  place  of  -ik  for  the  present  and  is  the  same  form  as  that 
used  for  past  time  in  the  intransitive  for  verbs  of  Classes  II— III. 
With  this  form  in  -ah  the  nominal  pronoun  is  usually  compounded 
witht:2 

Class  1  a.  t-in  sul-ah  in-meya,  1  finished  my  work;  literally,  -in  past 
time,  my  finishing  something,  in  past  time,  my  work. 

Class     1  b.    t-a  kim-s-ah  in  yum,  you  killed  my  father.3 

Class  111  a.   t-u  o'on-ah  ke,  he  shot  the  deer. 

Class  111  b.    t-a  o'ib-t-ah  huun,  you  wrote  the  letter. 

1  It  has  already  been  pointed  out  (p.  68)  that  Coronel  and  San  Buena- 
ventura make  no  distinction  in  the  present  between  the  form  of  the  transitive 
and  that  of  the.  intransitive.  In  the  past  tense,  however,  both  make  the  same 
distinction  between  the  transitive  and  intransitive  as  that  made  here  and  in 
Beltran.   Coronel  changes  the  -ah  of  the  past  to  i  when  a  question  is  asked; 

mak  kambesi  palalob,  who  showed  (it  to)  the  boys? 
Seler  (p.  91,  92)  has  much  to  say  about  this  -ah.  He  considers  this  is  used 
with  the  original  passive  nominal  roots  to  express  a  transitive  idea.  He  fails,  it 
seems  to  me,  to  recognize  that  this  -ah,  as  a  sign  of  the  past,  is  exactly  equiv- 
alent to  the  -ik  as  the  sign  of  the  present  with  transitive  verbs,  although  later 
in  his  paper  (p.  118)  he  recognizes  the  -ah  as  used  "  in  the  preterite  of  the 
transitive  root  con j  ugation ." 

2  In  a  few  cases  when  the  verbal  pronoun  is  used  as  an  object  this  sign  of 
the  past  is  omitted: 

tu  puts-en,  he  struck  me. 
As  will  be  pointed  out  later  (p.  94)  the  -ah  is  usually  omitted  in  response  to 
questions. 

3  Seler  (p.  86)  gives  this  form  excepting  the  time  particle  of  the  pronoun  and 
translates  it  literally,  "  thy  dead  one  is  my  father."  He  writes,  "  Immerhin 
kann  man  sich  der  Anschauung  nicht  verschliessen,  dass  den  transitiven  und  den 
passiven  V  erbalausdrucken  dieselben  Nominolthemata  passiver  Bedeutung  zu 
Grunde  liegen,  die  zur  Bildung  der  passiven  Ausdriicke  nach  den  Regeln  der 


THE  VERB  79 

As  in  the  present  there  is  a  syncopation  of  the  a  of  the  ending 
-ah  when  the  verbal  pronoun  beginning  with  a  vowel  is  used  as  the 
object: 

tu  kam-be-s-ah-en  becomes  tu  kambe-s-h-en,  he  showed  something  to  me. 

Action  just  completed  is  expressed  by  the  nominal  pronoun  com- 
pounded with  the  root  of  the  verb,  o'ok,  to  finish.  The  verbal 
stem  takes  the  -ah  for  the  past : 1 

o'ok-a  puts-ah-en,  contracted  to  o'a  put§-h-en,  you  have  just  finished  hit- 
ting me. 
o'ok-k  kim-s-ah  ke,  contracted  to  o'oq  kim-s-ah  ke,  we  have  just  finished 
killing  the  deer. 

There  is  a  form  of  the  past  in  -ki.  This  is  used  in  clauses  with 
the  idea  of  "  since  "  or  "  after."  2 

Distant  past  in  the  transitive  is  expressed  by  the  suffix  m  com- 
pounded with  the  usual  sign  of  the  past,  -ah.3  In  most  cases  the 
temporal  sign  with  the  pronoun  is  omitted  in  these  forms: 

prddikativen  Aussage  mit  dem  Personalpronomen  verbunden  werden,  zur  Bildung 
der  tronsitiven  Ausdrucke  mit  dem  Possessivprdfixe  versehen  werden."  1  readily 
admit  the  passive  relationship  shown  in  verbs  of  Class  1  (p.  63)  but  this  form 
is  to  be  explained  as  follows;  — my  causing  (s)  someone  in  past  time  (ah)  to 
die  (kim)  my  (in)  father  (yum).  The  use  of  the  causal  emphasizes  the  activity 
of  the  subject. 

1  Beltran  (§  85)  gives  the  form  in  o'ok.  He  also  uses  it  with  the  intransitive 
verb. 

Ruz  (1844)  has  the  form  in  o'ook  for  the  future  perfect,  the  preterit  perfect 
and  the  pluperfect  tenses. 

Lopez  has  the  form  in  o'ok  uncontracted  with  pronoun  and  a  form  in  o'okili 
for  the  pluperfect. 

2  Compare  Seler  (p.  121,  122).  Beltran  (§§  174,  175),  notes  the  statement 
of  San  Buenaventura  regarding  variations  in  his  4th  Conjugation  in  using  the 
-ki  and  not  -ah  for  the  past.  Beltran  states  that  the  form  in  -ki  may  be  used 
with  all  verbs  but  he  limits  the  use  to  the  meaning,  "  despues  que  6  desde  que." 

kim-ki  in  yume  oqomuol,  after  my  father  died;  1  was  sad. 
Coronel  uses  the  -ki  form  for  the  past  with  reservation  regarding  clauses.    He 
also  has  the  form  iki  when  the  verbal  root  has  two  consonants  preceding  this 
ending; 

kokint-iki. 
The  forms  of  the  past  made  by  adding  kutsi  to  the  forms  of  the  present 
which  are  given  in  all  the  Spanish  grammars  are  not  commonly  employed  at  the 
present  time.   1  was  unable  to  find  the  forms  given  in  the  early  grammars  for 
the  Preterito  Pluscuamperfecto  in  Hi  kutsi. 

3  Ruz  (1844,  p.  81,  82),  in  his  preterit  perfect  and  pluperfect,  has  a  form 
in  -ma  following  the  -ah  of  the  past  rather  than  preceding  it  as  above; 


80  GRAMMAR 

in  puts-m-ah-ets,  1  hit  you  a  long  time  ago. 

u  o'on-m-ah-en,  he  shot  me  a  long  time  ago. 

a  kim-s-m-ah,  you  killed  it  a  long  time  ago. 

u  het-m-ah-ob,  they  opened  it  a  long  time  ago. 

u  yal-m-ah  tan-il-ob,  he  spoke  these  words  a  long  time  ago  (Xiu  ms.). 

Modes.  There  is  no  sharp  distinction  between  the  different 
modes  in  Maya.  The  Spanish  grammarians  in  their  endeavor  to 
find  corresponding  forms  for  everything  in  the  Latin  grammar 
give  forms  for  the  different  modes  which  are,  in  many  cases,  most 
artificial. 

Indicative  Mode.   There  is  no  occasion  to  comment  on  this. 

Subjunctive  Mode.  This  is  really  lacking  in  Maya.1  The  idea  of 
a  future  possibility  is  expressed  by  certain  forms  of  the  future  and 

ten  in  sah-t-ah-ma,  1  have  feared. 
ten  in  sah-t-ah-ma  katsi,  1  had  feared. 
Lopez  (§  98)  has  the  same  forms  as  Ruz,  calling  them  a  preterite  indifinido. 
He  gives  examples  for  both  intransitive  and  transitive  verbs; 
u-hant-ma-ob,  lo  han  comido. 
in-hant-ah-ma-wah,  yo  he  comido  pan. 

1  Beltran  and  his  predecessors  use  the  form  of  the  Futuro  Imperfecto  with 
various  modifications  for  all  tenses  of  the  Subjunctive.  The  bin  is  dropped, 
as  observed  in  my  form,  and  Beltran  gets  the  following  forms;. 

ten  nakaken,  1st  Conjugation.  ten  in  oike,  3d  Conjugation. 

ten  in  kambes,  2d  Conjugation.  ten  in  kanante,  4th  Conjugation. 

It  will  be  observed  that  he  prefixes  the  verbal  pronoun  compounded  with  t. 
This  verbal  pronoun  is  quite  unnecessary.  As  the  form  stands  with  Beltran 
the  meaning  of  ten  nakaken  would  be,  "1  am  the  one  who  may  ascend." 
For  the  Preterito  Imperfecto  of  the  Subjunctive  Beltran  uses  hi  or  hiwil  as  a 
prefix  to  the  forms  for  the  present; 

hi  or  hiwil  nakaken. 
These  forms  for  the  past  of  the  subjunctive  are  the  same  as  those  given  by 
Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  for  the  present  of  this  mode,  Coronel  using  hij 
for  hi.    The  use  of  this  form  in  hi  or  hij  is  clearly  incorrect  as  h  conveys  the 
meaning  of  past  time. 

Beltran  in  his  text  (§§  73,  74)  states  that  the  better  form  of  the  subjunctive 
of  transitive  verbs  adds  a  final  -e.  This  seems  to  agree  with  my  statement 
that  the  subjunctive  is  a  future.  He  also  gives  forms  for  the  subjunctive  in 
-ina: 

naka-k-en  ina,  or  in  nah  nakal,  yo  subiera. 

in  kambes  ina,  or  in  nah  in  kambes,  yo  lo  ensendra. 
It  should  be  noted  that  Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  give  forms  in  ka-ina 


THE  VERB  81 

I  have  regarded  these  forms  as  belonging  to  a  potential  mode.  A 
conditional  statement  is  usually  introduced  by  the  particle  wa, 
if.  The  verb  has  no  special  form  in  the  conditional  clause.  The 
future  is  usually  employed  in  the  main  clause: 

wa  (or  wai)  yan  taqin,  hen  bin-e,  if  I  had  money  I  should  go. 
Potential  Mode.   The  idea  of  a  future  possibility  is  expressed  by 
certain  forms  of  the  future.    The  most  common  is  the  use  of  the 
nominal  pronoun  compounded  with  k-  (p.  46).     The  suffix  of  the 
future,  -e,  may  or  may  not  be  retained  in  intransitives : l 

k-in  puts-e,  I  may  strike  him. 

k-in  qai  or  k-in  qai-y-e,  I  may  sing. 

k-in  D'on  or  k-in  o'on-e,  I  may  shoot. 

The  defective  verb,  utsak,  has  the  meaning,  "  it  is  possible,  per- 
haps "  and  it  is  sometimes  used  in  connection  with  the  preceding 
forms.2 

The  future  in  ak  and  the  verbal  pronoun  are  also  used  to  express 
a  future  possibility.    The  prefix,  bin,  is  usually  omitted:3 
lub-n-ak-en,  I  may  fall. 
bin-n-ak-ets,  you  may  go. 
3'on-[n]-ak-i,  he  may  shoot. 

Imperative  Mode.  In  the  intransitive  this  is  usually  formed  by 
adding  the  suffix  -en  to  the  shortened  stem  or  root : 4 

for  the  Optative.  I  consider  all  these  forms  in  hi,  hiwil  and  ina  alone  or  com- 
bined with  kutii,  ili  kutsi,  and  ili  kot§om  as  artificial  in  their  formation. 

Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  give  only  the  present  and  the  imperfect  of 
the  subjunctive.    Beltran  has,  in  addition,  the  preterit  and  two  futures. 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  190)  in  criticizing  these  forms  of  Beltran  writes  very 
truthfully,  "  Y  asi  formas  del  subjuntivo.  Yo  no  sabre"  decir  de  una  manera  fija 
cual  es  la  causa  de  esto;  pero  sospecho  que  consiste  en  el  afdn  de  calcar  las  formas 
verbales  de  los  tiempos  mayas  a  las  de  los  verbos  castellanos  y  latinos  empleando 
para  esto  particulas  del  futuro,  del  pasado  6  del  futuro  y  pasado  para  hacer  los 
tiempos  llamados  mixtos  como  habrt  ido." 

1  These  forms  correspond  to  those  given  by  Lopez  (p.  51)  for  the  subjunc- 
tive of  active  verbs. 

2  Compare  Lopez  (§  120). 

Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  18  ob.)  give  the  form  utsak  or  ut§uk 
with  the  meaning  "  to  be  able  "  ; 

utsuk  in  beeltik,  lo,  I  am  able  to  do  this. 
utsuk  a  binel,  you  are  able  to  go. 

3  These  forms  correspond  to  those  given  by  Lopez  (p.  39,  etc.)  for  the  sub- 
junctive of  neuter  verbs. 

4  The  Spanish  grammars  have  the  imperative  in  -en  for  verbs  of  their  1st 


82  GRAMMAR 

Class  I.   nak-en,  climb, 
lub-en,  fall, 
ah-en,  wake  up. 
em-en,  come  down. 

These  forms  for  verbs  of  Class  I  are  the  same  as  the  first  person 
singular  of  the  past  tense  of  the  intransitive.  It  has  previously 
been  pointed  out  (p.  71)  that  the  latter  may  be  preceded  by  a  t 
or  V  to  distinguish  it  from  the  imperative.  This  similarity  is  not 
seen  in  the  imperative  in  verbs  of  Class  III  which  form  their  past 
in  n-ah : 

Class  III.    o'on-en,  shoot. 
sut-en,  jump, 
qai-y-en,  sing. 
mis-en,  sweep,   broom. 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  causal  sign  or  the  sign  of  the  agent 
is  not  found  in  the  imperative  of  the  intransitive  in  Class  I  b  and 
III  b  respectively. 

In  verbs  of  Class  II  in  -tal,  the  same  rule  holds,  to  add  -en  to 
the  stem.  The  typical  ending  for  verbs  of  this  class,  -tal,  is  con- 
tracted to  1 : 

Class  II.   tsi-tal-en  becomes  tsi-l-en,  lie  down, 
kus-tal-en  becomes  kus-l-en,  live.1 

This  contraction  of  the  stem  in  -tal  suggests  the  possibility  that 
the  imperative  of  verbs  of  Class  I  above  was  formerly  made  from 
the  stem  in  -1 : 

nak-al-en  becoming  nak-en.  ah-al-en  becoming  ah-en. 

lub-ul-en  becoming  lub-en.  em-el-en  becoming  em-en. 

conjugation.  Beltran  gives  nothing  but  the  present  tense  of  the  imperative. 
Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  give  a  future  imperative  compounded  with  the 
root  of  the  verb  qat,  to  desire. 

Seler  (p.  Ill)  in  his  interpretaion  of  the  imperative  in  -en  writes,  " Ich  bin 
also  in  der  That  geneigt,  audi  der  zweiten  Person  des  Imperativs  der  Verba  neutro- 
passiva  die  ursprilngliche  Bedeutung  eines  Participii  Perfecti  zuzuweisen,  welche 
imperativische  Bedeutung  in  derselben  Weise  bekommen  hat,  wie  etwa  unser 
Kavalleriekommando  '  Aufgesessen! '  —  Eine  Differenzirung  des  Imperativs  und 
des  Partizipium  kommt  in  einfacher  Weise  durch  den  Accent  zu  Stande,  indem 
der  Imperativ  in  eindringlicher  Weise  die  letzte  Silbe  betont,  das  Participium  den 
Ton  auf  der  Stammsilbe  behalt."  In  this  he  tries  to  trace  a  similarity  between 
the  -en  of  the  imperative  and  the  -an  of  the  past  participle. 

1  Seler  (p.  106)  gives  the  imperative  of  this  form  as 
kus-1-ah-en. 


THE  VERB  83 

The  imperative  in  the  transitive,  as  already  pointed  out,  is  very 
similar  to  the  future.  It  ends  in  -e  when  no  pronominal  object  is 
expressed.  The  sign  of  the  present  -ik  is  never  found  as  it  is  some- 
times in  the  future : l 

Class     I  a.   put§-e,  hit  it. 

Class     I  b.   kim-s-e,  kill  it,  cause  something  to  die. 

Class  III  a.   o'on-e,  shoot  it. 

Class  III  b.   mis-t-e,  sweep  it. 

mis-t-e  na,  sweep  the  house.2 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  -e  is  not  attached  to  the  object  as  in 
the  case  of  the  future  tense  expressed  with  the  same  suffix.  This 
-e  is  lost  by  syncope  when  a  pronominal  object  or  the  sign  of  the 
plural  is  used.3 

1  This  form  is  similar  to  those  used  with  the  4th  Conjugation  of  the  Spanish 
grammars  and  of  the  3d  of  Beltran  as  well.  In  the  latter  conjugation  Coronel 
and  San  Buenaventura  use  a  vowel  corresponding  to  that  of  the  root  explain- 
ing this  as  formed  from  the  future  stem  in  -ab,  -eb,  -ib,  -ob,  -ub  with  the  loss 
of  the  final  b.  Beltran  (§  112)  does  not  accept  this  form  and  makes  the  im- 
perative of  his  3d  Conjugation  as  is  done  here. 

Seler  (p.  104)  follows  San  Buenaventura  and  gives  the  imperative  of 
monosyllabic  roots  ending  in  the  vowel  corresponding  to  that  of  the  root.  He 
recognizes  (p.  104,  105)  the  imperatives  of  some  verbs  as  ending  in  -e  but 
incorrectly  derives  these  from  a  future  in  eb. 

In  the  2d  Conjugation  of  the  early  grammars  the  imperative  ends  in  es 
(ez).  This  conjugation  corresponds  to  Class  I  b,  the  s  being  causal.  It  is  prob- 
able that  the  imperative  of  these  verbs  formerly  followed  the  rule  of  the  transi- 
tive and  added  an  e.  This  e  was  then  elided,  as  stated  before,  in  connection 
with  the  future  of  these  forms; 
kambe-s-e  becoming  kambe-s. 
Seler  (p.  106)  in  his  attempts  to  explain  all  transitive  forms  as  passives 
gives  the  following  translation; 

u  kambe-s  Pedro  Juan,  John  shall  teach  Peter  or  by  him  taught  Peter 
(namely  by)  John. 

2  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  179)  drops  the  e  when  an  object  is  used; 
kanan-t-e,  cuidalo. 

kanan-t  le  oimno,  cuida  ese  caballo. 
He  adds  "  Nunca  se  dice." 
kanan-t-e  le  oimno. 

3  Beltran  (§§  114,  144)  also  notes  this  and  gives  the  form; 
oik-en  for  oike-en. 

Seler  (p.  87,  109)  gives  the  imperative  in  i  after  San  Buenaventura.  He 
explains  the  preceding  form  as  follows; 

oiki-en  or  oik-en,  derived  from  oiki-b-en,  obey  me,  or  "  that  one  to  whom 
(by  thee)  obedience  shall  be,  am  I." 


84  GRAMMAR 

Optative.  The  idea  expressed  by  the  Spanish,  Ojala,  forming  an 
optative,  is  shown  in  Maya  by  the  root  of  the  verb  qat,  to  desire 
with  the  future  stem.1  This  form  is  considered  under  the  irregular 
verbs  (p.  60). 

The  Passive.  It  has  already  been  pointed  out  (p.  63)  that 
syntactically  many  of  the  forms  expressing  the  passive  relation- 
ship cannot  be  separated  from  those  expressing  the  active  voice.2 
It  has  seemed  best  to  consider  the  passive  voice  here  as  as  whole 
however. 

Present  Time.  In  the  sense  of  action  still  going  on,  this  is  ex- 
pressed by  the  suffix  in  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul  which  gives  the  idea  of 
the  subject  as  being  affected  by  the  action  of  the  verb.  This 
suffix  in  -1  is  found  either  alone,  with  the  causal  s,  or  with  the  in- 
strumental t. 

Class  I  a  and  I  b  both  use  the  causal  s  with  the  suffix  -1  to  ex- 
press a  passive  relationship: 

Class  I  a.   tun  het-s-el,  it  is  being  opened,  literally,  its  being  affected  by 
someone  causing  it  to  open, 
tin  nao'-s-al,  I  am  being  approached,  literally,  my  being  affected 

by  someone  causing  a  nearness  to  me. 
tin  ah-s-al,  I  am  being  awakened,  literally,  my  being  affected 
by  someone  causing  me  to  wake. 

I  cannot  agree  with  him  in  this  as  the  passive  relationship  is  in  no  way  ex- 
pressed by  the  simple  root  of  the  verb  nor  can  this  form  be  derived  from 
oiki-b-en. 

Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  give  forms  for  a  future  imperative  with  the 
root  of  the  verb  kat,  possibly  from  the  root  qat,  "  to  ask  "; 

1st  Conjugation,  kat  a  nak-ak-ets. 

2d  Conjugation,  kat  a  kambes. 

3d  Conjugation,  kat  a  oik-ib. 

4th  Conjugation,  kat  a  kanant-e. 
These  forms  are  similar  to  the  future  exchanging  the  bin  for  kat.  Seler  (p.  106) 
seems  to  recognize  these  forms  in  ak  only  in  the  3d  person. 

1  Coronel  in  his  paradigms  makes  an  optative  by  prefixing  kahi  to  the  future 
stem.  This  is  undoubtedly  the  root  of  the  verb  qat.  In  his  text  he  states 
that  the  optative  is  made  by  prefixing  kaina  to  the  Futuro  Imperfecto.  San 
Buenaventura  gives  the  form  in  kaina  for  the  optative  in  addition  to  the  form 
in  kahi.   Beltran  does  not  show  the  optative  in  his  paradigms. 

2  Seler  endeavors  to  make  out,  as  previously  shown,  that  all  transitive  ex- 
pressions are  passive  in  construction.  I  think  he  is  incorrect  in  making  this 
sweeping  statement.  He  admits  (p.  86,  90)  there  are  various  features  which 
upset  this  theory. 


THE  VERB  85 

Class  I  b,   tun  ban-s-al,  it  is  being  thrown  down,  literally,  its  being  affected 
by  someone  causing  it  to  tumble  down, 
tin  kim-s-il,  I  am  being  killed,  literally,  my  being  affected  by 
someone  causing  me  to  die. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  whereas  in  the  passive  both  sub- 
divisions of  Class  I  use  the  causal,  in  the  active,  transitive,  of 
verbs  of  Class  I  b  the  causal  is  still  retained  but  in  Class  I  a  it  is 
not  found : 

Class  I  a.   tun  het-ik,  he  is  opening  something. 

tin  nao'-ik,  I  am  approaching  something, 
tin  ah-ik,  I  am  awakening  someone. 
Class  I  b.   tun  ban-s-ik,  he  is  destroying  something, 
tin  kim-s-ik,  I  am  killing  something. 

There  are  some  cases  in  the  passive  where  the  vowel  of  the  root 
does  not  agree  with  the  vowel  of  the  suffix.  There  is  a  tendency  to 
use  -al  as  the  suffix  even  where  the  vowel  of  the  root  is  not  a : l 

Class  III.  These  verbs  from  neuter  stems  express  the  passive 
relationship  by  adding  -1  either  directly  to  the  stem  in  Class  III  a 
or  to  the  stem  with  the  sign  of  the  agent,  t,  in  Class  III  b; 2 

Class  III  a.   tin  los-ol,  I  am  being  hit,  literally,  my  being  affected  by  a  fist. 

tin  haa'-al,  I  am  being  whipped. 
Class  III  b.  tun  mis-t-al,3  it  is  being  swept,  literally,  its  being  affected  by 
means  of  a  broom. 

tun  han-t-al,  it  is  being  eaten. 

When  the  stem  ends  in  a  vowel  a  b  is  prefixed  to  the  suffix : 4 

tun  oa-b-al,  it  is  being  given, 
tan-k  t§i-b-il,  we  are  being  bitten, 
tin  ts'a-b-al,  I  am  being  taken. 

1  Beltran  (§  56)  makes  the  passive  of  verbs  of  his  1st  Conjugation  by  adding 
-sal  or  -tal  to  the  root.  He  makes  no  mention  in  these  verbs  of  an  agreement 
between  the  vowel  of  the  root  with  that  of  the  suffix.  The  s  of  his  suffix  -sal 
is  undoubtedly  the  causal  and  the  t  of  the  suffix  -tal  is  the  instrument. 

Palma  y  Palma  (p.  180)  has  the  same  rule. 

2  Beltran  (§  57)  gives  these  same  forms  for  the  passive  and  notes  the  agree- 
ment between  the  vowel  of  the  stem  and  that  of  the  suffix.  All  state  that  verbs 
in  the  passive  go  in  their  1st  Conjugation. 

3  The  same  tendency  to  use  the  suffix  -al  even  when  the  vowel  of  the  stem 
is  not  a  is  seen  here  as  with  verbs  of  Class  I. 

4  Coronel  and  his  followers  have  this  same  form.  Beltran  (§  57)  has  the 
form  in  -bal  for  the  passive  for  verbs  of  his  2d  and  4th  Conjugations; 

From  kambesah  he  gets  the  passive,  kambesabal. 
From  kanantah  he  gets  kanantabal. 


86  GRAMMAR 

Future  Time.  In  the  passive  this  is  expressed  by  the  same  stems 
as  in  the  present  with  the  time  particle  of  the  future  used  with  the 
nominal  pronoun  and  the  sign  of  the  future,  -e: 

Class     la.  hu  (he-u)  het-s-el-e,  it  will  be  opened. 
Class     I  b.  hen  (he-in)  kim-s-il-e,  I  shall  be  killed,  literally,  in  future 
time,  my  being  affected  by  someone  causing  me  to  die  in 
future  time. 

hen  kam-be-s-al-e,  I  shall  be  shown. 
Class  III  a.   hen  kat-al-e,  I  shall  be  asked. 

hen  wal-al-e,  I  shall  be  mentioned. 

hen  o'on-ol-e,  I  shall  be  shot,  literally,  I  am  affected  by  a  gun 
Class  III  b.   hu  o'ib-t-il-e,  it  will  be  written. 

hu  han-t-al-e,  it  will  be  eaten. 

There  is  a  second  form  for  the  future  in  the  passive  correspond- 
ing to  the  form  in  bin  in  the  active : 

Class     I  a.   bin  man-s-al-ak-en,  contracting  to  bin  man-s-ak-en,  I  am 
going  to  be  passed  (on  the  road). 
bin  nak-s-al-ak-en,  contracting  to  bin  nak-s-ak-en,  I  am 
going  to  be  climbed. 
Class     I  b.   bin  kim-s-al-ak-en,  contracting  to  bin  kim-s-ak-en,  I  am  go- 
ing to  be  killed,  literally,  I  am  going  to  be  affected  by 
someone  causing  me  to  die. 
Class  III  a.   bin  kat-al-ak-en,  I  am  going  to  be  asked. 

bin  al-al-ak-en,  I  am  going  to  be  awakened, 
bin  o'on-ol-ak-en,  I  am  going  to  be  shot. 
Class  III  b.   bin  mis-t-al-ak-i,  contracted. to  bin  mis-t-ak-i,  it  is  going  to 
be  swept,  it  will  be  swept. 

It  should  be  noted  that  verbs  in  Class  III  a,  if  contracted  in 
these  forms,  would  have  the  same  forms  in  the  future  of  the  pas- 
sive as  in  the  intransitive  active.  There  is  no  chance  of  confusion 
in  the  contracted  forms  of  verbs  in  the  other  classes  as  the  causal 
s  is  not  found  in  the  intransitive  active  in  verbs  of  Classes  I  a  and 
I  b,  and  the  agent  t  is  not  found  in  the  corresponding  forms  in 
verbs  of  Class  III  b. 

I  consider  the  passives  ot  these  verbs  should  be  kambe-s-al  and  kanan-t-al. 
The  form  kambesabal  is  the  passive  participle. 

Beltran  (§  116)  objects  to  some  of  the  forms  of  San  Buenaventura  in  the 
passive  of  verbs  of  the  3d  Conjugation  where  the  latter  states  that  a  b  is  added 
together  with  a  vowel  similar  to  that  of  the  root; 

San  Buenaventura  gives  yey-b-il,  Beltran  gives  yey-al. 

San  Buenaventura  gives  nuk-b-ul,  Beltran  gives  nuk-al. 
The  forms  of  Beltran  agree  with  those  given  here. 


THE  VERB  87 

Past  Time.  This  is  expressed  in  the  passive  in  all  verbs  which 
have  a  passive  by  adding  a  b  to  the  sign  of  the  past  and  the  verbal 
pronoun  directly  to  the  stem  in  verbs  of  Class  III  a,  to  the  stem 
with  the  sign  of  the  agent  in  Class  III  b,  and  to  the  stem  with  the 
causal  s  in  verbs  of  Class  I : 

Class     I.      ah-s-ah-b-en,  I  was  awakened. 

nao'-s-ah-b-en,  I  was  approached. 
Class  III  a.   nats-ah-b-en,  I  was  bitten. 

o'on-ah-b-en,  I  was  shot. 
Class  III  b.   han-t-ah-b-i,  it  was  eaten. 

It  is  not  clear  how  these  forms  have  been  derived.  The  usual  sign 
of  the  past  is  ah.  The  b  is  seen  in  the  present  tense  of  the  passive 
between  two  vowels,  as  already  pointed  out  (p.  85). 

The  b  is  often  exchanged  for  a  n  and  we  get  other  forms  express- 
ing the  same  ideas  as  above: 

nats-ah-n-en,  I  was  bitten.1 
o'on-ah-n-en,  I  was  shot. 
ah-s-ah-n-en,  I  was  awakened. 

This  form  in  n  is  seen  in  the  past  participle : 

nat&-an,  a  thing  bitten. 

D'on-an,  a  thing  shot. 

kim-s-an,  a  thing  killed,  literally,  a  thing  caused  to  die. 

There  is  another  form  expressing  distant  past  in  the  passive 
made  by  duplicating  the  sign  of  the  past,  -ah: 
o'on-ah-ah-n-en,  I  was  shot  a  long  time  ago. 

Verbal  Nouns.  There  is  a  large  class  of  verbal  nouns  made 
directly  from  the  stem  by  the  use  of  the  verbal  pronoun.  This  pro- 
noun always  carries  with  it  the  verbal  idea,  "the  one  who  does 
something"  or  "the  one  affected  by  the  action  of  the  verb."  It  is 
never  found  in  the  present  tense  with  verbs.  It  is  used  with  no 
sign  of  the  past  in  verbs  of  Class  I  to  express  past  time.  These 
forms  are  really  verbal  nouns; 

1  It  is  interesting  to  compare  these  forms  with  the  intransitive,  active,  past 
tense; 

nats-n-ah-en,  I  performed  the  action  of  biting. 
nats-ah-n-en,  I  was  bitten. 
o'on-[n]-ah-en,  I  shot,  literally,  I  was  a  gunner. 
o'on  ah-n-en,  I  was  shot,  literally,  I  was  gunned. 


88  GRAMMAR 

Class  I.  lub-en,  I  fell,  I  am  a  faller,  I  am  one  who  falls. 

man-en,  I  bought,  I  am  a  buyer,  I  am  a  merchant. 

han-en,  I  ate,  I  am  an  eater. 

nak-en,  I  climbed,  I  am  a  climber. 

kim-s-en,  I  am  a  matador,  I  am  one  who  causes  something  to  die. 

With  verbs  of  Class  III  verbal  nouns  are  made  in  the  same  way; 

o'on-en,  I  am  a  gunner. 
qai-y-et§,  you  are  a  singer. 
ooqot-en,  I  am  a  dancer. 

It  should  be  noted  that,  unlike  verbs  of  Class  I,  these  forms  in 
Class  III  are  not  the  same  as  those  used  for  the  past  tense.  The 
past  of  verbs  in  Class  III  is  made  by  infixing  n  and  the  sign  of  the 
past,  -ah,  between  the  root  and  the  verbal  pronoun: 

o'on-[n]-ah-en,  I  shot. 
qai-n-ah-et§,  you  sang. 
ooqot-n-ab-en,  I  danced. 

The  prefixes  of  gender,  H  for  male,  and  s  for  female,  are  used 
with  the  verbal  nouns: 

H-man-en,  I  am  a  male  merchant. 
§-qai-et§,  you  are  a  female  singer. 

«  There  is  a  chance  for  confusion  in  the  1st  person  of  the  verbal 
pronoun  especially  with  verbs  of  Class  I  as  the  same  form  is  used 
for  the  imperative  of  the  intransitive  as  well  as  for  the  past  tense. 
As  already  pointed  out  (p.  72),  the  form  for  the  past  usually  has 
an  initial  t  or  t'  and  the  verbal  noun  has  the  sign  of  the  gender. 

There  is  a  class  of  nouns  made  from  verbs  by  means  of  the  suffix 
-b  preceded  by  the  vowel  corresponding  to  that  of  the  stem.1  This 
suffix  denotes  the  instrument  with  which  the  action  is  performed. 
This  b  undoubtedly  is  the  same  as  that  found  in  the  past  tense  of 
the  passive. 

bah-ab,  a  hammer,  from  bah,  to  nail. 

he-eb,  a  key,  from  he,  to  open,  the  instrument  by  which  something  is 
opened. 

Past  Participle.  Verbal  nouns  having  the  meaning  usually  as- 
signed to  the  past  participle  end  in  -an.2  This  is  added  to  the  root ; 

1  Compare  Seler,  p.  107. 

2  Lopez  (§  101)  states  that  this  participle  is  formed  in  aan  or  ahan: 
mentaan  or  mentahan,  hecho. 

p'oaan,  lavado. 


THE  VERB  89 

neither  causal  sign  nor  that  of  the  agent  appear  in  Classes  I  b  and 
III  b  respectively.  In  verbs  of  Class  II  the  t  of  the  suffix  -tal  may 
be  retained,  giving  -tan,  or  the  form  may  be  made  in  -Ian.1 

Class     I  a .  nak-an,  a  thing  fallen. 

Class     I  b.  kim-an,  a  thing  dead.2 

Class    II.  kus-t-an  or  ku§-l-an,  a  thing  living. 

Class  III  a.  o'on-an,  a  thing  shot. 

Class  III  b.  mis-an,  a  thing  swept.3 

The  plural  of  the  participle  follows  the  same  rule  as  that  for  the 
adjective,  adding  the  suffix,  -tak  or  -ak.  This  may  be  used  with 
or  without  the  regular  plural  ending  -ob.  The  latter  may  also  be 
used  alone : 

o'iban-ak,  o'iban-ak-ob,  o'iban-ob,  things  written. 

Passive  Participle.  The  passive  idea  in  verbal  nouns  is  brought 
out  by  means  of  the  suffixes  -bal  or  -bil  added  to  the  passive  stem.4 
When  the  stem  ends  in  a  consonant  an  a  is  added  for  euphony 
between  the  consonant  of  the  stem  and  that  of  the  suffix: 5 

Class     I  a.   nak-s-a-bal,  a  thing  to  be  climbed. 

Class     I  b.   kim-s-a-bal,  a  thing  to  be  killed. 

Class  III  a.   o'on-a-bal,  a  thing  to  be  shot. 

Class  III  b.   mis-t-a-bal,  a  thing  to  be  swept. 

Infinitive.  There  is  no  infinitive  in  Maya.6  The  infinitive  con- 
struction, used  in  English,  after  verbs  denoting  purpose,  desire, 

1  Beltran  (§  126)  and  Lopez  (§  101)  give  the  participle  of  these  verbs  as 
ending  in  -Ian.  I  am  rather  inclined  to  agree  that  this  is  a  better  form  than 
the  one  in  -tan. 

2  Lopez  (§  101)  gives  this  form  as  kim-en. 

3  Beltran  (§  179)  states  that  the  participle  of  verbs  corresponding  to  those 
of  Class  III  b  may  have  the  t  as  well  as  the  -an : 

o'ib-t-an  or  o'ib-an,  a  written  thing. 

4  These  forms  correspond  to  the  future  passive  participle  of  the  Spanish 
grammars; 

nak-s-a-bal.  kam-be-s-bil  or  kam-be-s-bal. 

6  In  verbs  of  Class  I  the  stem  would  always  end  in  a  consonant  as  the  pas- 
sive stem  takes  the  causal  s.  In  verbs  of  Class  III  b,  it  also  ends  in  a  consonant 
as  this  class  takes  the  sign  of  the  agent,  t,  as  a  part  of  the  stem  in  the  passive. 

6  Much  is  made  in  the  early  Spanish  grammars  of  the  infinitive.  In  their 
1st  Conjugation  the  present  of  the  infinitive  is  the  stem  in  1  (nakal) .  The  past 
infinitive  in  Beltran  (naki  il)  is  undoubtedly  incorrect  as  it  is  inconsistent  with 
the  past  forms  he  gives  in  the  other  conjugations.  Coronel  and  San  Buena- 
ventura have  a  past  in  nakijl  which  shows  the  h  (j)  sound  which  is  the  usual 


90  GRAMMAR 

ability,  etc.  is  expressed  in  Maya  by  a  future  and  is  really  in  the 
nature  of  a  clause  introduced,  in  many  cases,  by  the  particle  ka 

(p.  92). 

Inchoative  or  Inceptive  Verbs.  These  are  made  by  adding 
the  suffix  -hal  or  -tal  to  the  verbal  stem  with  the  nominal  pro- 
noun.1 It  should  be  noted  that  these  inchoative  verbs  are  prob- 
ably distinct  from  verbs  of  Class  II  in  -tal  which  make  their  past 
in  1-ah,  although  the  suffix  -tal  is  common  to  both  forms; 

tin  winik-tal  or  winik-hal,  I  am  becoming  a  man. 
tin  kana-tal,  I  am  increasing  in  height. 
tun  yek-tal,  it  is  growing  dark. 

The  future  is  formed  in  two  ways,  by  using  the  time  particle  of 
the  future  with  the  nominal  pronoun  and  the  suffix  -e,  retaining 
the  -tal,  or  changing  the  sign  ah  of  the  past  in  the  particle  ts-ah 
to  al,  obtaining  the  form  ts-al : 

method  of  showing  past  time.  In  the  2d  Conjugation,  Coronel  and  San  Bue- 
naventura have  forms  ending  in  -ah.  These  are  clearly  incorrect  for  the  present, 
as  pointed  out  by  Beltran  (§  105),  and  San  Buenaventura  seems  to  recognize 
this  as  he  gives  a  second  form  for  the  present  which  corresponds  with  that  of 
Beltran.  In  the  4th  Conjugation,  Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  are  probably 
incorrect  as  they  give  the  past  participle,  kanan,  for  the  present  of  the  infinitive. 
Beltran  in  this  conjugation  gives  for  the  past  infinitive  a  passive  form,  kanan- 
tabil.  Martinez  says  there  is  an  infinitive  in  -al,  -el,  -11,  -ol  and  -ul  when 
"taken  in  a  general  sense"  : 

u  tanlah-il  Dios,  el  servir  a  Dios, 

u  han-al  pisan,  el  comer  de  los  almas. 

u  o'on-ol  ke,  el  cazar  venados. 
1  Beltran  (§  90)  uses  the  term  neuter  in  describing  these  verbs  in  -hal.   He 
does  not  mention  the  corresponding  form  in  -tal  but  gives  a  form  in  -nil.    He 
states  that  the  past  is  made  in  hi,  the  future  in  ak. 

Ccronel  and  San  Buenaventura  (fol.  9b,  ob.)  have  only  the  forms  in  -tal.  This 
is  one  of  the  cases  where  the  two  older  authorities  agree  with  the  modern  usage. 
Seler  (p.  80)  states  that  the  forms  in  -hal,  used  by  Beltran,  are  older  than 
the  forms  in  -tal.  It  is  difficult  to  reconcile  this  statement  with  the  fact  that 
Coronel  and  San  Buenaventura  give  the  forms  in  -tal.  Furthermore  Seler 
endeavors  to  connect  the  form  in  -tal  with  the  t  or  te  used  as  a  demonstrative 
with  the  verbal  pronoun.  He  correctly  points  cut  the  limitations  of  meaning 
when  -tal  is  used  as  that  of  an  inchoative.  He  uses  the  form  in  kah  with  these 
verbs; 

winik-hal-in-kah  or  winik-tal-in-kah. 
I  did  not  find  this  form  in  common  use.    The  nominal  pronoun  with  the  time 
particle  is  used  as  shown  below. 


THE  VERB  91 

hen  winik-tal-e  or  winik-ts-al-e,  I  shall  become  a  man. 
hek  kohan-ts-al-e,  we  shall  become  ill. 

The  past  tense  seems  to  be  seldom  used  with  these  verbs.  When 
found  the  suffix  -tal  changes  to  ts  and  the  sign  of  the  past,  ah, 
with  the  verbal  pronoun  is  used : 

winik-ts-ah-ets,  you  became  a  man. 
kana-ts-ah-en,  I  increased  in  height. 

There  seems  little  doubt  that,  originally,  both  -tal  or  -hal  and 
-ts  were  used  to  express  the  inchoative  idea  with  no  distinction  as 
now  observed  between  the  use  of  -tal  in  the  present  and  -ts  in  the 
past.  This  supposition  is  strengthened  by  the  fact  that  both  -tal 
and  -tsal  are  found  in  the  future.1 

Attention  may  be  called  again  to  the  nouns  denoting  accustomed 
state  or  condition  in  -tal  (p.  38). 

Iterative  or  Frequentative  Verbs.  These  are  made  by  du- 
plicating the  first  syllable : 2 

tin  bi-qab,  I  tap  with  the  fingers. 

tin  bi-bi-qab,  I  tap  frequently  with  the  fingers. 

tin  la-k-ets,  I  strike  you  with  the  palm. 

tin  la-la-k-ets,  I  strike  you  several  times  with  the  palm. 

Reflexive  Verbs.  There  is  a  class  of  verbs  used  with  the 
particle  -pahal,  which  are  reflexive : 3 

1  Seler  (p.  81)  gives  both  the  forms  in  -hal  or  -tal  and  -tsahal  for  the  present; 
winik-hal  or  winik-tal  to  be  a  man,  to  prove  himself  a  man. 
winik-tsah-al,  just  now  to  be  a  man,  to  become  manly,  attain  a  position. 

I  consider  that  the  -ah  of  his  infix  -tsah  is  the  sign  of  the  past  and  should  not 
be  used  in  the  present  tense.   The  proper  form  would  be; 

tin  winik-ts-al. 
Seler  (p.  84,  85)  has  much  to  say  regarding  the  use  of  h  which  "  added  to 
nouns  forms  neutral  themes  with  the  meaning  '  made  for  this  and  that/  '  be- 
ing this  and  that/  e.g.) 

eeq-ha-al,  to  be  black,  to  become  black." 
This  is  really  the  inchoative  verb  and  the  more  usual  form  is  not  -hal  but  -tal. 

2  Beltran  (§  127)  states  that  this  type  of  verbs  almost  always  is  found  in 
the  4th  Conjugation.  He  adds  that  the  adverb  o'eo'etak,  signifying  d  menudo 
6  con  frecuencia  is  used  with  verbs  of  his  1st  Conjugation; 

lubul,  to  fall. 

o'eo'etak  lubul,  to  fall  frequently. 
Palma  y  Palma  (p.  163-167)  describes  these  forms  very  clearly. 

3  See  also  verbs  used  with  the  reflexive  pronoun,  p.  50. 


92  GRAMMAR 

tsun,  begin, 
tun  tsun-pa-hal,  it  begins  itself. 

tsun-pa-hi,  it  began  itself. 
tun  t§un-pa-hal  qin,  the  day  is  beginning. 
tun  lots-pa-hal,  it  bends  itself. 

Reciprocal  Verbs.    See  under  Reciprocal  Pronoun,  p.  51. 

Clauses.  Final  clauses  expressing  purpose  or  motive.  These  are 
made  by  using  a  future  construction.  The  nominal  pronoun  takes 
no  time  particle  but  the  -e  of  the  future  is  retained : * 

tin  bin  in  bet-e,  I  go  to  make  something,  literally,  in  present  time,  my 
going,  my  making  something  in  future  time. 

The  form  in  -kah  can  also  be  used  to  express  the  same  idea; 

bin-in- kah  in  bet-e,  contracted  to  bin-in-k-in  bet-e.   I  am  going  to  make 

it. 
bin-in-kah  utial  in  wil-e,  1  go  in  order  to  see  it. 
bin-in-kah  in  wil-e,  contracted  to  bin-in-k-in  wil-e,  I  go  to  see  it. 

When  the  object  is  expressed,  the  -e  of  the  future  is  usually- 
dropped; 

bin-in-kah  in  bet  na,  I  go  to  build  a  house. 

Object  clauses  expressing  ability,  knowledge,  desire,  fear,  compul- 
sion, command,  etc.  These  also  take  the  future  construction.  In 
some  cases  the  time  particle  is  omitted  with  the  nominal  pronoun ; 

in  qat  in  wil-e,  I  desire  to  see  it. 

u  pat  in  o'ib-t-e,  I  am  able  to  write  it. 

in  wohel  in  be-t-e,  I  know  how  to  do  it. 

As  in  the  preceding  examples,  when  the  object  is  expressed  by  a 
noun,  the  -e  is  usually  dropped : 

in  qat  in  hant  wa,  I  desire  to  eat  tortillas. 

u  pat  in  o'ib-t  huun,  I  am  able  to  write  a  letter. 

The  particla  ka  often  introduces  these  clauses  especially  with  the 
form  of  the  indefinite  future  in  ak  and  the  verbal  pronoun : 

in  qat  ka  uo-s-ak-et§,  I  desire  you  to  be  good. 

leeti  u  qat  qai-n-ak-en,  he  (demonstrative)  wishes  me  to  sing. 

in  qat  tet§  ka  wal-ik-t-en,  I  wish  you  to  tell  me. 

1  Beltran  (§§  99,  100)  notes  that  the  future  forms  are  used  in  some  cases 
after  the  verb,  to  desire,  where  one  would  expect  the  infinitive  to  be 
used. 


THE  VERB  93 

or     in  qat  tets  ka  wal-t-en. 

tin  al-ik  ka  alkab-n-ak-en,  I  say  that  I  shall  run. 

saken  ka  kohan-(n)-ak-en,  I  fear  I  shall  be  ill. 

tin  al-t-ets  or  al-ah-t-ets  ka  sik-et§,  I  told  you  to  go. 

Relative  clauses.  There  is  no  special  difference  between  the  verb 
in  a  relative  clause  and  that  in  any  other  place : 

le  winik  qai-n-ah-i  kim-i,  the  man  who  sang  is  dead,  literally,  the  man 
sang,  he  died. 

There  is  a  relative  relation  introduced  by  the  particle  lik  or  likil 
denoting  in  which,  by  which,  for  which,  etc : x 

likil  in  wenel,      (the  object)  in  which  I  sleep,  my  hammock. 
likil  in  meya,       (the  object)  with  which  I  work,  my  pencil. 
likil  q  kus-tal,     (the  object)  by  which  we  live,  maize. 
likil  in  puts-ik,   (the  object)  with  which  I  strike,  my  stick. 

There  is  a  relative  idea  conveyed  in  the  compound  formed  of  the 
particle  t  or  ti  and  the  verbal  pronoun : 
ma§  puts-ah-en,  who  hit  me  ? 
t-en  put§-et§,  I  am  the  one  who  hit  you. 

Temporal  Clauses.  These  are  usually  introduced  by  the  par- 
ticle ka : 

tin  wal-ah-t-ets  ka  kut§-en,  I  told  it  to  you  when  I  arrived. 
k-in  qai  k-en  sik-en-e,  I  may  sing  when  I  arrive. 

Sometimes  the  particle  is  repeated  before  the  main  clause  as  well 
as  before  that  of  the  temporal : 

ka  tal-ets-e  ka  kohan-h-en,  when  you  came,  I  was  ill. 

le  ka  o'ok  in  qai-y-e  ka  bin-en,  after  I  had  sung,  I  went. 

Conditional  Clauses.  These  are  usually  introduced  by  the  par- 
ticle wa,  if,  or  kes,  although.  The  verb  in  these  clauses  does  not 
differ  from  that  in  the  main  part  of  the  sentence : 

1  Beltran  (§§  94,  95)  has  the  form  in  lik  or  likil  and  states  that  it  denotes  en 
que,  con  que,  de  que,  por  donde,  porque,  etc.,  also  "  que  suele  hacerse  lo  que  el  verbo 
signified."  : 

uo  yaab  qan  likil  a  wenel,  good  is  the  hammock  in  which  you  are  accus- 
tomed to  sleep. 
uo  luum  kus  lik  in  yum,  good  is  the  land  in  which  my  father  lives. 
Beltran  (§  240)  has  another  mutanza  with  intransitive  verbs  in  the  past  when 
used  in  a  clause  meaning  "en  que  "  etc.    In  his  example  he  adds  a  k  in  the  3d 
person; 

iai  ts'en  lub-k-i,  Juan,  this  is  the  well  into  which  John  fell. 
Seler  (p.  120,  121)  identifies  this  suffix,  -lik  as  a  combination  of  -ik,  our 
sign  of  the  present  transitive  verb,  and  the  suffixes  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul. 


94  GRAMMAR 

wa  ka  al-ik-t-en  k-in  bin,  if  you  tell  it  to  me,  I  shall  (may)  go. 

kes  tal-i  bin-en,  although  he  came,  I  went. 

kes  tun  qai  sut-on  t'-na-i,  although  he  is  singing,  we  returned  to  our  house. 

Interrogative.  In  general  there  seems  to  be  no  particular 
form  of  particle  marking  the  interrogative.  The  rising  voice  alone 
seems  to  indicate  a  question.  This  may  be  a  convention  of. later 
times.  The  particle  wa  is  sometimes  used  as  an  interrogative  with 
the  meaning  "  by  chance  "  or  "  perhaps  "  and  comes  as  the  final 
suffix : * 

ooqot-n-ah-ets-wa,  did  you,  by  chance,  dance? 

t-a-puts-ah-wa,  did  you,  by  chance,  strike  him? 

When  the  interrogative  is  used  with  the  transitive  verb  in  the 
past  tense  the  sign  of  the  past  is  sometimes  omitted  both  in  the 
question  and  in  the  answer.  A  final  -e  is  found  in  the  3d  person  in 
these  forms: 

mas  puts-en,  who  struck  me? 

t-en  puts-ets,  I  was  the  one  who  struck  you. 

mas  puts-e,  who  struck  him? 

t-en  puts-e,  I  struck  him,  I  am  the  one  who  struck  him. 

mas  mis-t-e  na,  who  swept  the  house? 

t-en  mis-t-e  na,  I  swept  the  house. 

When  the  answer  to  a  question  is  in  the  negative  the  suffix  -i  or 
-il  is  usually  found  with  the  negative  ma.  The  use  of  this  same 
suffix  is  noted  (p.  104)  with  the  adverbs : 

bin-ets,  did  you  go?  kohan-ob,  are  they  ill? 

ma  bin-en-i,  no,  I  did  not  go.  ma  kohan-ob-i,  no,  they  are  not  ill. 

The  interrogative  pronouns,  mas,  tus,  bas,  etc.  are  considered 
under  the  pronoun  (p.  51). 

In  questions  asking  permission  which  are  expressed  in  the  future 
an  affirmative  answer  is  given  in  the  imperative : 
mis-nak-en,  may  I  sweep?  kul-en,  yes,  sit  down. 

mis-n-en,  yes,  sweep.  mis-(t-e)  na,  may  I  sweep  the  house? 

kul-ak-en,  may  I  sit  down?  mis-t-e,  yes,  sweep  it. 

When  permision  is  not  given  and  the  answer  is  negative  the  root 
alone  is  used  in  the  transitive  with  the  proper  ending  and  the  root 
alone  in  the  intransitive: 

mis-nak-en,  may  I  sweep?  mis-(t-e)  na,  may  I  sweep  the  house? 

ma,  mis,  no,  do  not  sweep.  ma,  mis-t-ik,  no,  do  not  sweep  it. 

1  Compare  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  178,  179. 


THE  ADJECTIVE  95 

THE   ADJECTIVE 

There  is  no  real  adjective  in  Maya.  Words  which  have  usually 
been  considered  as  adjectives  are  really  intransitive  verbs.  The 
term  adjective  has  however  been  retained  as  describing  these  forms  :l 

keel,  he  is  cold,  it  is  cold,  or  something  cold. 
keel  winik,  the  man  is  cold  or  the  cold  man. 

kohan  winik  tun  tal,  the  man  is  sick,  he  is  coming,  or  the  sick  man  is. 
coming. 

The  attributive  and  predicate  relationship  are  not  distinguished  ;2 
le  na  bos,  this  house  is  black  or  the  black  house. 

These  adjective-like  forms  have  been  put  into  a  class  by  them- 
selves in  the  treatment  of  the  verb  as  their  past  tenses  are  made  in 
a  different  way  from  that  used  in  the  regular  intransitive  forms. 
This  is  one  of  the  many  places  where  an  arbitrary  ruling  must  be 
made  in  regard  to  the  place  where  forms  should  be  considered 
which  are  on  the  dividing  line  between  two  categories. 

It  has  been  thought  best  to  retain  the  heading  " adjective"  for 
the  sake  of  clearness  and  to  consider  number  and  comparison  here 
rather  than  under  the  verb.  The  idea  of  time,  however,  is  taken 
up  under  Class  IV  of  the  verbs  (p.  59). 

Order.  The  adjective  usually  precedes  the  noun  but  there  are 
many  exceptions  to  the  rule; 

u  lak  winik,  the  other  man.  u  winik  san,  the  same  man. 

Number.  The  plural  ending  is  usually  expressed  only  in  the 
noun  used  with  the  adjective.  Some  cases,  however,  occur  where 
both  the  adjective  and  the  noun  have  the  sign  of  the  plural. 
Plural  in  the  adjective  is  not  usually  shown  by  the  same  form, 
-ob,  as  with  nouns,  but  by  the  suffixes  -ak,  -tak,  or  -lak,  the  same 
as  those  used  for  participles : 3 

1  For  a  good  discussion  of  the  adjective,  see  Palma  y  Palma  (p.  160-162.) 
Lopez  (§§30-33)  has  two  classes  of  adjectives:  —  qualifying  and  determi- 
native. 

Martinez  insists  that  there  is  an  adjective  and,  like  the  English  adjective, 
it  precedes  the  noun. 

2  Seler  (p.  77)  makes  an  attributive  expression  by  means  of  the  suffixes  -al, 
-el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul: 

uo-ul  winik-ob,  the  good  men.  oak-il  na,  the  white  house. 

3  Coronel  notes  the  plural  in  -tak  as  used  for  participles. 

Seler  (p.  114)  is  inclined  to  interpret  the  plural  ending  -lak  as  related  to  the 


96  GRAMMAR 

uo  na,  a  good  house,  or  the  house  is  good, 

uo-t£k  na-ob,  the  good  houses,  or  the  houses  are  good. 

Reduplication.  This  is  sometimes  employed  to  express  the 
plural  in  adjectives: 

tas  be,  a  smooth  road.  ta-tai  be-ob,  smooth  roads. 

There  are  a  few  adjectives  which  have  different  forms  for  the 
singular  and  plural : 

nohot§  tunits,  a  large  stone.  nukuts  tuniti-ob,  large  stones. 

Comparison.   Comparative.   The  comparative  is  made  by  add- 
ing the  suffix  -il  to  the  adjective  form: 
uo,  good,  uo-il  or  u-yuo-il,  better. 
nat§,  far,  nats-il,  farther. 

This  may  be  a  case  where  there  was  at  one  time  a  vocalic  harmony 
between  the  vowel  of  the  stem  and  that  of  the  ending  in  -l.1 

Superlative.  This  is  formed  by  prefixing  the  word  hats  meaning 
"  much,  very,  or  many  "  to  the  comparative: 2 

passive  or  intransitive  stem  in  -al,  -el,  -il,  -ol,  -ul,  the  suffix  vowel  of  which  is 
elided  with  the  collective  or  plural  suffix  -ak,  -ik.  As  a  matter  of  fact  the  -lak 
suffix  for  the  plural  is  very  uncommon,  -ak  or  -tak  are  much  more  common. 
Seler  (p.  122,  123)  considers  the  suffix  -ak  as  identical  with  -ah  as  a  sign  of 
the  past.  His  authority  for  this  is  evidently  Perez  who  gives  the  forms  and 
translations  noted  by  Seler; 

alabil,  what  is  or  shall  be  said.  bahun-ak,  how  much  were  they? 

alabil-ak,  it  was  said.  biqin,  biqin§,  when? 

bahun,  how  much?  biqin§-ak,  when  was  it? 

The  Motul  dictionary  seems  to  make  no  distinction  between  bahun  and 
bahun-ak.  It  does  not  give  the  form  biqin§-ak  and  distinctly  states  that 
biqin  is  used  for  the  present  and  past.  The  San  Francisco  dictionary  gives 
bahun  and  bahuns  using  them  in  both  the  present  and  past.  It  does  not  give 
bahun-ak.  I  am  rather  inclined  to  consider  the  -ak  in  these  forms  of  Perez  as 
denoting  a  plural  although  the  Motul  gives  an  example  of  the  use  of  bahun 
with  a  plural  noun. 

1  Strength  is  given  to  this  supposition  by  the  fact  that  Beltran  (§  27)  gives 
the  form  yuo-ul  (yutzul)  for  better,  nohol,  greater,  qasal,  worst,  but  he  also 
notes  that  the  Indian  in  talking  usually  uses  the  suffix  -il. 

Lopez  (§  36)  does  not  accept  this  way  of  making  the  comparative  at  the 
present  time.  He  writes,  "  Antiguamente,  segun  asegura  el  P.  Beltran,  seformaba 
el  comparative)  repitiendo  la  ultima  vocal  y  anadUndole  una  ele  .  .  .  pero  actual- 
mente  no  se  usa.  Tambie'n,  dice  que  se  forma  anadiendo  al  positivo  la  particula 
il;  pero  a  mi  modo  de  ver,  mejor  se  le  llamaria  superlativo  relativo."  Lopez  forms 
the  comparative  by  using  the  particles,  asab,  mas,  or  masab  with  the  positive. 

2  Lopez  (§  37)  also  uses  sem  or  semket§,  lem  or  lemket§,  net,  bahan  and 
kalam  to  form  the  superlative  degree. 


THE  ADJECTIVE  97 

hats  uo-il  na-ob,  the  best  houses, 
hats  nats-il,  the  farthest. 

The  form  hats  is  often  used  directly  with  the  adjective  to  form  the 
comparative : 

in  na  hats  uo  ket  a  na,  my  house  is  better  than  your  house. 

Diminutives  or.  diminution  of  the  idea.  This  is  expressed  by  re- 
duplication :      t 

noh  or  nohots,  great.  sak,  white. 

no-noh  or  no-nohots,  grondecillo.  sa-sak,  medio  bianco. 

A  more  common  way  of  expressing  a  diminution  or  an  increase  of 
the  idea  expressed  by  the  adjective  is  by  the  words,  hats,  very, 
and  the  word  qas  meaning  bad.1: 

tiitsan,  small. 

qas  tsitsan,  rather  small,  medio  chico. 

hat§  t§it§an,  very  small. 

Numerals.  The  numeral  system  is  vigesimal.2  There  is  a  con- 
sistent treatment  so  that  there  is  practically  no  number  that  can- 
not be  expressed  in  Maya. 

Terms  given  by  the  early  Spaniards.   These  are  as  follows: 

20  units    =  1  qal,  1  X  20  =  20. 

20  qal        =  1  baq,  20  X  20  =  400. 

20  baq       =  1  pik,  20  X  20  X  20  =  8,000. 

20  pik       =1  kalab,  20  X  20  X  20  X  20  =  160,000. 

20  kalab    =  1  qintsil,  20  X  160,000  =  3,200,000. 

20  qintSil  =  1  alaw,  20  X  3,200,000  =  64,000,000  (?). 

Terms  used  in  the  hieroglyphic  writing.  It  is  clear  from  a  study  of 
the  hieroglyphic  writing  that  the  early  Mayas  were  accustomed  to 
deal  with  very  large  number  series,  numbers  running  into  the  mil- 
lions, especially  the  long  number  series  in  the  Dresden  Codex.3 

The  system  now  commonly  used  in  the  hieroglyphic  writing  is  as 
follows : 

20  Kin       =1  Uinal,  20  days. 
18  Uinal    -  1  Tun,  360  days. 
20  Tun      =  1  Katun,  7200  days. 
20  Katun  =  1  Cycle,  144,000  days. 
13  or  20  Cycle   =  1  Great  Cycle,  1,872,000  or  2,880,000  days. 

1  Compare  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  161,  162,  and  Lopez,  §  38. 

2  For  a  complete  discussion  of  the  numerals,  see  Thomas,  1897-1898.  See 
also  Part  III,  p.  181. 

3  For  a  discussion  of  these  number  series,  see  Bowditch,  1910,  Chapter  VI. 


98  GRAMMAR 

It  is  not  certain  regarding  all  the  names  given  by  the  early 
Mayas  to  the  different  divisions.  The  numbers  were  expressed 
very  simply  in  the  hieroglyphic  writing  by  a  system  of  super- 
imposed bars  and  dots. 

There  is  a  certain  unity  between  the  numeral  system  now  used 
and  that  on  which  the  ancient  calendarial  reckoning  was  based. 
In  the  latter,  however,  18  units  of  the  2d  order  made  one  of  the 
3d.  There  is  also  a  question  whether  in  the  stone  inscriptions  20 
of  the  5th  order  made  one  of  the  6th  or  13  of  the  5th  made  one  of 
the  6th.  The  change  in  the  2d  order  from  20  to  18  was  probably 
due  to  a  desire  to  bring  about  some  degree  of  accord  between  the 
actual  length  of  a  year  and  a  unit  of  the  3d  order,  a  Tun  being 
360  days. 

Terms  used  at  present  time.  The  Mayas  of  the  present  time 
naturally  have  little  occasion  for  large  numbers  although  some 
are  capable  of  counting  up  into  the  thousands.  The  Lacandones, 
on  the  other  hand,  seem  entirely  unable  to  use  numbers  higher 
than  three  or  four.  They  point  to  the  fingers  and  toes  when  they 
desire  to  signify  higher  numbers. 

Taking  into  consideration  the  ancient  Maya  method  of  expres- 
sing numbers  by  bars  and  dots,  a  bar  representing  five  and  a  dot 
one,  we  might  expect  a  quinary  system  with  multiples  of  five  up 
to  twenty.  This  is  not  so,  however,  as  the  change  in  nomenclature 
is  made  at  ten.  There  are  different  words  used  for  the  numbers 
from  1  through  9.  The  word  for  10,  la  hun,  probably  means  "  all 
of  one  count."    La  is  the  particle  denoting  totality.1 

The  word  for  11,  buluk,  is  quite  different  from  the  word  for  one. 
It  is  to  be  noted  that  in  the  face  numerals  the  hieroglyph  for  11, 
as  far  as  can  be  made  out  at  present,  does  not  show  any  of  the 
characteristics  of  the  number  for  one. 

The  words  for  the  numbers  12  to  19  correspond  in  meaning 
with  the  words  for  2  to  9  with  the  addition  of  the  particle  lah,  signi- 
fying "  all": 

lah  ka,  all  of  2.  lah  os,  all  of  3,  etc. 

1  Compare  Thomas,  1897-98,  p.  891.  He  points  out  that  Henderson  in  his 
manuscript  Maya-English  dictionary  has  as  the  meaning  of  lah,  "  whole 
hands." 


NUMERATION 


99 


It  is  suggested,  as  another  possibility,  that  la  is  to  be  derived  from 
laq  meaning  "  the  other  "  or  "  the  accompanying,"  giving  the 
idea  of  first  counting  the  fingers  up  to  10  and  then  starting  with 
the  toes  up  to  20.  This  suggestion  would  have  more  value  if  la 
was  found  with  the  number  11  and  not  with  10. 


Numeration 

Tozzer 

Beltran 

1.  hun- 

hun- 

2.  ka- 

ka-  (ca) 

3.  os- 

os-  (ox) 

4.  kan- 

kan-  (can) 

5.  ho- 

ho- 

6.  wak- 

wak-  (uac) 

7.  wuk- 

wuk-  (uuc) 

8.  wasak- 

wasak-  (uaxac) 

9.  bolon- 

bolon- 

10.  lahun- 

la  hun- 

11.  buluk- 

buluk-  (buluc) 

12.  la  ka- 

lah  ka-  (lah  ca) 

13.  la  os- 

os  la  hun-  (ox  la  hun) 

14.  la  kan- 

kan  la  hun-  (can  la  hun) 

15.  laho- 

hoi  hun- 

16.  la  wak- 

wak  la  hun-  (uac  la  hun) 

17.  la  wuk- 

wuk  la  hun-  (uuc  la  hun) 

18.  la  wasak- 

wasak  la  hun-  (uaxac  la  hun) 

19.  la  bolon- 

bolon  la  hun- 

20.  hun  qal- 

hun  qal-  (hun  kal) 

21.  hun  qal  yete  hun- 

hun  tu  qal-  (hun  tu  kal) 

22.  hun  qal  yete  ka- 

ka  tu  qal-  (ca  tu  kal) 

30.  hun  qal  yete  la  hun- 

la  hu  ka  qal-  (la  hu  ca  kal) 

31.  hun  qal  yete  buluk- 

buluk  tu  qal-  (buluc  tu  kal) 

32.  hun  qal  yete  la  ka- 

lah  ka  tu  qal-  (lah  ca  tukal) 

40.  ka  qal- 

ka  qal-  (ca  kal) 

41.  ka  qal  yete  hun- 

hun  tu  yos  qal-  {hun  tu  yox  kal) 

50.  ka  qal  yete  la  hun- 

la  hu  yos  qal-  (la  hu  yox  kal) 

60.  os  qal- 

os  qal-  (ox  kal) 

70.  os  qal  yete  la  hun- 

la  hu  kan  qal-  (la  hu  can  kal) 

80.  kan  qal- 

kan  qal-  (can  kal) 

90.  kan  qal  yete  la  hun- 

la  hu  yo  qal-  (la  hu  yo  kal) 

100.  ho  qal- 

ho  qal-  (ho  kal) 

101.  ho  qal  yete  hun- 

hun  tu  wak  qal- 

110.  ho  qal  yete  la  hun- 

la  hu  wak  qal- 

111.  ho  qal  yete  la  hun  yete  hun- 

buluk  tu  wak  qal- 

120.  wak  qal- 

wak  qal- 

100  GRAMMAR 

Numeration  (continued) 
Tozzer  Beltran 


130.  wak  qal  yete  la  hun- 

la  hu  wuk  qal- 

140.  wuk  qal- 

wuk  qal- 

160.  wasak  qal- 

wasak  qal- 

180.  bolon  qal- 

bolon  qal- 

200.  la  hun  qal- 

la  hun  qal- 

220.  buluk  qal- 

buluk  qal- 

240.  la  ka  qal- 

lah  ka  qal- 

260.  la  os  qal- 

os  lahu  qal- 

280.  la  kan  qal- 

kan  lahu  qal- 

300.  la  ho  qal- 

hol  hu  qal- 

320.  la  wak  qal- 

wak  lahu  qal- 

340.  la  wuk  qal- 

wuk  lahu  qal- 

360.  la  wasak  qal- 

wasak  lahu  qal- 

380.  la  bolon  qal- 

bolon  lahu  qal- 

400.  hun  baq- 

hun  baq- 

Beltran' s  numeration.  There  is  little  doubt  that  the  Maya  num- 
eration for  the  higher  numbers  has  fallen  into  disuse  at  the  present 
time.1  It  is  significant  that  practically  all  late  grammars  give  the 
numeration  of  Beltran  rather  than  the  numbers  used  at  the  present 
time.2 

The  reader  is  given  a  chance  on  p.  99-100,  to  compare  the  num- 
bers as  given  by  Beltran  with  those  collected  by  the  writer.  I  have 
given  the  numbers  only  to  400. 3  I  present  these  with  some 
hesitation. 

Beltran  has  the  same  form  for  12  as  that  given  here  but  for  the 
numbers  13  to  19  he  gives: 

os  la  hun,  13  (3  and  10).  kan  la  hun,  14  (4  and  10),  etc. 

The  form  for  10  is  thus  carried  through  all  the  numbers  from  13  to 
19.  Attention  should  be  called  to  the  analogy  here  between  these 

1  Compare  Cruz  (1912,  p.  110)  who  writes,  "El  sistema  de  numeration  maya 
puede  detirse  que  ha  caldo  en  desuso,  iserd  posible  volverlo  a  su  primitive)  estado 
hoy  que  estd  mezclado  con  el  espanoll  Es  de  dudarse.  Dia  ha  de  llegar  en  que 
hasta  el  propio  idioma  quede  sepultado  eternamente.  Nosotros  no  auguramos  a 
la  lengua  maya,  que  fu£  gloriosa,  ningun  porvenir,  y  si  presentimos  que  tarde  6 
temprano  caiga  en  desuso  eterno.  Pueda  que  fracasemos  en  nuestros  pronosticos 
pero  lo  dudamos.}> 

2  See  Lopez  §  180.  Note,  however,  the  numbers  given  in  Appendix  IV, 
p.  301. 

3  For  the  numbers  above  400,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  list  in  Beltran, 
uArticulo  Undetimo"  Thomas,  1897-1898,  p.  861,  890-893,  or  Lopez,  §  180. 


NUMERATION  101 

forms  using  10  as  a  foundation  and  the  face  numerals  in  the  hiero- 
glyphic inscriptions  for  the  numbers  13  to  19.  These  latter  show, 
in  most  cases,  a  fleshless  lower  jaw  signifying  10  in  addition  to  the 
glyph  for  the  numbers  from  3  to  9. 

In  the  forms  given  here  yetel,  with,  is  used  with  all  numbers 
not  multiples  of  20 : 

hun  qal  yete  hun,  21  (one  20  with  one). 

These  correspond  to  forms  given  by  Perez  (1866-1877)  and  Brin- 
ton  (1882,  p.  39)  in  katak.   Both  yetel,  and  katak  have  the  mean- 
ing  "  and,"    "  with."     Brinton  uses  the  form  in  katak    as  an 
alternative  in  numbers  above  40 : 
ka  kaUkatak  ka,  42  (2  score  and  2). 

Perez  gives  the  example: 

hun  qal  katak  ho,  25  (one  score  and  5). 

Beltran's  numbers  for  30  and  35 : 
la  hu  ka  qal  hoi  hu  ka  qal. 

and  all  numbers  above  40  use  the  unit  of  qal  above  rather  than 
below  the  number  expressed: 

hoi  hu  ka  qal,  35,  literally,  15,  2  qal  or,  freely,  15  toward  the  2d  qal  (40). 

The  numbers  from  31  to  34  and  36  to  39,  on  the  other  hand,  use 
the  unit  of  qal  below  the  number  expressed: 
wak  la  hun  tu  qal,  36  (16  on  the  [one]  qal). 

All  numbers  above  40  correspond  in  form  with  those  for  30  and  35, 
using  the  unit  of  qal  above  the  number  expressed: 
hun  tu  yos  qal,  41  (one  on  the  3d  qal). 

It  seems  clear  that  there  is  some  mistake  here  in  Beltran's  num- 
eration, although  all  writers  have  followed  him  in  giving  the 
same  forms.  The  same  particle,  tu,  is  used  both  in  those  forms  for 
numbers  below  40  which  add  the  number  to  the  preceding  unit  of 
qal,  and  also  in  the  forms  for  30,  35  and  those  above  40,  where  the 
number  is  really  added,  if  we  accept  the  meaning  of  tu,  to  the  suc- 
ceeding unit  of  qal : l 

ka  tu  qal,  22  (2  to  qal). 

ka  tu  yos  qal,  42  (2  to  3  qal,  not  2  to  2  qal). 

1  In  this  connection,  Thomas  (1897-1898,  p.  891)  writes,  "Perez,  as  quoted 
by  Dr.  Brinton,  says,  in  an  unpublished  essay  in  the  latter' s  possession,  that 
Beltran's  method  of  expressing  the  numbers  is  erroneous;  that  41  should  be 


102  GRAMMAR 

Under  the  same  rule,  after  380  is  reached,  Beltran  starts  with 
381  counting  towards  the  next  higher  unit  of  baq,  400: 
htm  tu  hun  baq,  381  (1  to  [1]  baq). 
ho  tu  hun  baq,  385  (5  to  [1]  baq),  etc. 

A  point,  not  previously  mentioned  in  connection  with  Beltran's 
numeration,  is  that  tu  is  not  used  with  the  forms  adding  10  and 
15  to  each  qal  unit,  namely,  30  and  35,  50  and  55,  70  and  75,  etc.: 

la  hu  ka  qal,  30.  la  hu  yo§  qal,  50. 

hoi  hu  ka  qal,  35.  hoi  hu  yos  qal,  55. 

This  omission  of  the  tu  is  to  be  noted  in  the  same  relative  places  l 
until  190  is  reached  when  it  is  found  again: 

la  hu  tu  la  hun  qal,  190.  hoi  hu  tu  la  hun  qal,  195. 

The  tu  is  then  found  in  the  same  relative  places  until  370  is  reached 
when  it  is  dropped  again: 
la  hu  bolon  la  hu  qal,  370. 

It  is  found  with  the  next  number  when  15  is  added  to  the  unit: 
hoi  hu  tu  bolon  la  hu  qal,  375. 

and  it  is  dropped  again  for  the  next  10  added  to  the  qal: 
la  hu  hun  baq,  390. 

and  added  for  the  next  15: 
hoi  hu  tu  hun  baq,  395 

I  cannot  explain  this  irregularity  in  these  two  places  in  the  nu- 
meration.   The  fact  that,  with  the  exception  of  the  even  qal  and 

hun-tu-kaqal;  42,  ka-tu-kaqal;  83,  os-tu-kanqal,  etc.  Nevertheless,  as  Dr. 
Brinton  has  pointed  out,  the  numerals  above  40  are  given  in  Perez's  Diction- 
ary of  the  Maya  Language  according  to  Beltran's  system,  which  appears  from 
other  evidence  to  be  correct.  Leon  de  Rosny  suggests  that  hun-tu-yosqal 
should  be  explained  thus:  60  —  20  +  1-  However,  the  correct  rendering  ap- 
pears to  be  1  on  the  third  score,  or  third  20.  It  is  possible  that  an  old  and  a 
new  reckoning  prevailed  among  the  Mayas,  as  apparently  among  the  Cakchi- 
quels.  According  to  Stoll  the  latter  people  had  an  old  and  a  more  recent 
method  of  enumerating  .  .  .  Perez  says  that  tu  is  an  abbreviation  of  the  num- 
eral particle  tul,  but  Rosny  says,  l  Je  crois  que  ce  riest  point,  comme  il  [Ban- 
croft] le  suppose,  la  simple  conjonction  et,  mais  une  phrase  des  mots  ti-u,  dans 
son,  a  lui,  sien;  u  est  un  pronom  appele  par  les  grammairiens  Espanols  mixte 
et  qui  forme  la  copulation,  comme  en  Anglais  Vs  du  genitif.'  Dr.  Berendt  adopts 
the  same  opinion,  which  is  probably  correct." 

i  That  is,  70  and  75,  90  and  95,  110  and  115,  130  and  135,  150  and  155,  170 
and  175. 


NUMERATION  103 

baq,  tu  is  always  found  except  in  some  of  the  forms  adding  10  and 
15  to  the  units  seems  to  show  some  definite  purpose  when  it  is 
omitted.1 

The  unit  above  qal  is  baq  which  is  equivalent  to  20  X  20,  400. 
This  word  has  the  meaning  "  to  roll  up,  to  tie  around."  It  has 
already  been  noted  that  the  baq  unit  comes  in  first  with  381. 

Beltran's  numbers  above  400,  except  even  multiples  of  this  unit, 
baq,  are  evidently  abbreviated.    Otherwise  they  are  unintelligible. 

ho  tu  baq,  500  =  ho  qal  tu  baq. 

la  hu  tu  baq,  600  =  la  hun  qal  tu  baq. 

Above  800,  in  the  same  way  as  before,  the  next  higher  unit  is 
used: 

ho  tu  yo§  baq,  900  =  ho  qal  tu  yos  baq  (100  on  3d  baq). 

The  unit  of  the  3d  place  (20  X  20  X  20,  8000)  is  pik,  meaning 
"  cotton  cloth  or  a  kind  of  petticoat."  As  pointed  out  by  Thomas 
(1897-1898,  p  893),  Henderson  gives  the  significance  of  pik  as  "  a 
bag  made  out  of  a  petticoat  "  which  corresponds  with  the  Mexican 
term  for  8000. 

Beltran  points  out  (§  312)  that  the  Mayas  in  his  day  used  the 
term  pik  as  meaning  1000  rather  than  8000. 

The  unit  of  the  4th  place  (20  X  20  X  20  X  20,  160,000)  is 
kalab  and  that  for  the  5th  place  (20  X  20  X  20  X  20  X  20, 
3,200,000)  is  qintsil,  and  that  for  the  6th  place  is  alaw.2 

Numeral  Classifiers.  There  is  a  large  number  of  classificatory 
suffixes  in  use  with  the  numerals.  The  latter  can  never  stand  alone. 
These  suffixes  qualify  the  term  and  show  into  what  class  the  ob- 
jects counted  fall.  At  the  present  time  all  nouns  are  broadly 
classified  into  two  classes,  animate  and  inanimate,  by  the  two 
suffixes  -tul  and  -p'el : 

o§-tul  winik,  three  men,  os-p'el  na,  three  houses. 

Apart  from  a  few  other  classifiers  there  is  not  much  attention  paid 
by  the  Mayas  of  the  present  time  to  the  finer  distinctions  formerly 
made  by  these  suffixes.    Some,  however,  are  always  used. 

1  There  is  one  exception  to  this  rule.  Beltran's  form  for  171,  buluk  bolon 
qal,  omits  the  tu. 

2  For  a  discussion  of  the  meaning  of  these  terms,  see  Thomas,  op.  tit.  p.  894. 


104  GRAMMAR 

A  list  of  suffixes  used  as  classifiers  for  the  numeral  as  given,  for 
the  most  part,  by  Beltran  (§  313)  and  translated  by  Nuttall  (1903)  l 
is  given  in  Appendix  III,  p.  290-292. 

THE  ADVERB 

Position.  Adverbs,  especially  those  formed  from  the  intran- 
sitive verb-adjective,  have  two  positions  in  regard  to  the  verb  and 
its  subject.  They  may  be  placed  either  at  the  beginning  before  the 
nominal  pronoun  or  between  the  nominal  pronoun  and  the  verb : 

seeb  tin  konil,  I  sell  it  easily.  tsambe  tin  o'ib,  I  write  slowly. 

qas  tin  o'ib,  I  write  badly.  tin  t§its  simbal,  I  walk  fast. 

I  cannot  state  any  rule  for  the  position  of  the  adverb  in  these 
forms.  Some  seem  always  to  be  placed  before  the  pronoun  and 
others  after  the  pronoun. 

In  verbs  where  the  verbal  pronoun  rather  than  the  nominal  is 
used  the  adverb  comes  at  the  beginning; 
t§ambe  o'ib-n-ah-en,  I  wrote  slowly. 

Forms  used  with  the  verbal  pronoun  may  have  the  particle  -il 
or  -ik  inserted  between  the  root  and  the  pronoun : 

tlit§  §imbal-n-ah-il-en,  I  walked  fast,  or  t§its  simbal-n-ah-ik-en. 
tsit§  simbal-n-ah-ah-n-il-en,  I  walked  fast  a  long  time  ago. 
suk  kohan-il-en,  I  am  always  ill. 
suk  keel-il-en,  I  am  always  cold. 

The  adverbial  particles  are  very  numerous  in  Maya.  No  attempt 
has  been  made  to  exhaust  the  list.2  The  most  important  are  as 
follows : 

Negation.  This  is  shown  by  the  particle  ma  which  precedes  the 
nominal  pronoun  and  comes  immediately  before  the  verb  when  the 
verbal  pronoun  is  used: 

1  Mrs.  Nuttall  makes  a  very  pertinent  "suggestion  to  Maya  scholars"  as  to 
the  identity  between  the  significance  of  some  of  these  classificatory  particles 
and  portions  of  the  hieroglyphic  writing  appearing  with  the  series  of  numbers. 
These  number  series,  worked  out  up  to  the  present  time,  all  relate  to  periods 
of  time.  There  is  no  reference  whatever  to  objects  of  various  classes  being 
counted.  It  is  especially  desired  that  something  may  be  done  in  this  line  of 
research. 

2  The  reader  is  referred  to  the  lists  given  in  Beltran  and  in  San  Buenaven- 
tura.   See  also  Lopez,  Chapter  VIII. 


THE  ADVERB  105 

mi-nan,  contracting  from  ma-yan,  there  is  none, 
ma-in  bin,  I  am  not  going. 
ma-bin-et§,  you  did  not  go. 

The  particle  -il,  noted  above,  may  be  used  with  the  negative  com- 
ing, however,  after  the  verbal  pronoun: 

ma  sak-en-il,  I  was  not  afraid. 

sah  ? 
The  final  1  is  often  lost  and  we  get : l 

ma  sak-en-i.  ma  bin-en-i,  I  did  not  go. 

It  will  be  noted  that  the  forms  of  the  nominal  pronoun  are  not 
compounded  with  a  time  particle  in  these  examples.  The  sign  of 
the  past,  -ah,  may  also  be  omitted  with  the  negative.  The  nomi- 
nal pronoun  usually  contracts  with  the  negative  and  the  final  -1  is 
lost  as  noted  above : 2 

ma-in  into  min. 

ma-a  into  ma. 

ma-u  into  mu. 

ma-u  put§-ah-en-il,  becoming  m-u  puts-en-i,  he  did  not  hit  me. 

ma-in  put§-ah-il,  becoming  m-in  puts-i,  I  did  not  hit  him. 

Repetition.  This  may  be  expressed  in  the  action  of  the  verb 
by  the  particle  -ka : 

tin  ka-bin  or  ka  bin-in-kah,  I  am  going  again. 
ka  tal-et§,  you  came  again. 

Totality.  This  idea  is  shown  by  the  particle  ia  or  lah,  probably 
derived  from  the  word  tulakal,  all : 

tin  la-uk-ik  or  tin  la  wuk-ik,  I  am  drinking  all  of  it. 
tan  la-hant-ik  wa,  you  are  eating  all  of  the  tortillas, 
tun  la-qai-ob,  they  are  all  singing. 

1  Lopez  (§  172)  has  this  final  i  with  the  negative  forms; 
ma  in  qati,  I  do  not  desire. 

ma  in  qat  hanali,  I  do  not  desire  to  eat. 

2  Lopez  (§§  97,  99)  makes  a  negative  preterit  expression  by  means  of  the 
future  form  without  bin  and  a  negative  future  expression  by  means  of  the  pre- 
sent form  with  tin,  ta,  tu  in  place  of  kin,  ka,  ku: 

ma  tal-ak-en,  I  have  not  gone. 
ma  tin  han-al,  I  shall  not  eat. 
I  cannot  understand  these  forms. 


106  GRAMMAR 

The  la  seems  to  modify  either  the  subject  or  the  object  of  the  verb. 
I  cannot  find  that  there  is  any  differentiation  in  the  forms  accord  - 
ing  to  the  thing  modified.1 

A  repetition  of  the  particle  la  is  sometimes  noted  after  the  root. 
This  intensifies  the  meaning: 

tin  la-hant-la-n-t-ik,  I  am  eating  absolutely  everything. 

This  particle  is  also  used  with  the  idea  of  totality  with  ad 
jectives: 

kohan-ob,  they  are  ill. 
kohan-tak-ob,  many  are  ill. 
la-kohan-tak-ob,  all  are  ill. 
tun  la-kohan-tal-ob,  they  all  become  ill. 
tun  la-kohan-ob,  they  are  all  ill. 

Manner  or  State.  The  particle  denoting  these  ideas  is  be. 
This  adverb  takes  the  -il  or  -ik  forms  noted  above  (p.  104). 

be  tin  puts-ah-il-etg  or  be  tin  puts-il-ets,  thus,  I  hit  you. 
be  tal-il-en  or  be  tal-ik-en,  thus  I  came. 

Demonstrative.  Suffixes  similar  to  the  demonstrative  pronoun, 
a  and  o,  with  the  meaning  "  this  or  that  way  "  are  often  used  with 
the  adverb  be  (usually  written  bey) : 2 

be  tal-il-en-a,  thus  I  came  this  way. 
be  tal-il-en-o,  thus  I  came  that  way. 

The  form  in  a  is  used  when  the  method  of  coming  is  shown  by  some 
action,  the  form  in  o  when  the  method  of  coming  is  described  by 
words : 

be  puts-il-en-a,  thus  I  was  hit  (showing  how). 
be  puts-il-en-o,  thus  I  was  hit  (telling  how). 

When  these  forms  take  the  nominal  pronoun  the  suffix  -il  is  not 

used: 

be-in  wal-ik-a,  I  say  it  like  this.  be-in  beet-ik-a,  I  make  it  like  this. 

be-in  wal-ik-o,  I  say  it  like  that.  be-in  beet-ik-o,  I  make  it  like  that. 

1  Seler  (p.  81)  includes  the  particle  -la  with  the  inchoative  foms  in  -hal, 
-tal,  and  -tsa-hal  and  infers  that  la  is  used  only  with  intransitive  verbs. 

2  Perez  (1866-77)  makes  much  the  same  distinction  between  the  suffixes  -a 
and  -o  in  the  following  examples; 

he  le  oimn-a,  aqui  esta  el  caballo.         he  le  oimn-o,  alii  esta  el  cahallo. 


PREPOSITIONS  AND  POSTPOSITIONS  107 


PREPOSITIONS  AND  POSTPOSITIONS 

These  are  interesting  as  they  are  used  in  place  of  the  oblique 
cases  in  Maya.   When  used  with  nouns  all  are  prefixed: 

yalan  poq,  below  the  hat.  yetel  winik,  with  the  man. 

A  distinction  is  seen,  however,  when  these  forms  are  used  with 
the  pronoun.  They  are  then  divided  into  two  classes,  those  pre- 
fixed to  the  forms  of  the  verbal  pronoun  and  those  suffixed  to  the 
nominal  pronoun.   It  is  not  clear  how  this  distinction  is  governed. 

To  the  first  class  belong: 

yetel,  with,  yetel-en,  with  me. 
nao',  near,  nao'-ets,  near  you. 
yoqol,  above,  yoqol-i,  above  him. 

To  the  second  and  larger  class  belong: 

men  or  menel,  by,  t-in-men,  by  me. 

tial,  for,  in-tiai,  for  me. 

oel,  beside,  a-oel,  beside  you,  literally,  my  side. 

walan,  below,  in-walan,  or  t-in  walan,  below  me. 

ti,  in,  from,  and  to,  tin  bin  t-in  na,  I  am  going  to  my  house.1 

tin  tal  t-in  na,  I  am  coming  from  my  house. 

It  seems  clear  that  the  idea  of  a  noun  with  its  possessive  pronoun 
is  uppermost  here  but  this  does  not  explain  why  we  have, 
in  walan,  below  me  and  yoqol-en,  above  me. 

1  The  t  or  ti  corresponds  to  the  forms  given  in  the  early  grammars  as  the 
dative  case. 


PART  II 
MAYA  TEXTS 


PART  II 
MAYA  TEXTS 

INTRODUCTION 

Material  Available.  The  reader  will  gain  some  idea  of  the 
vast  amount  of  literature  in  the  Maya  language  from  the  discussion 
of  the  Maya  texts  available  for  study  (Part  III,  p.  182).  These 
documents  date  from  the  days  following  the  Conquest  and  con- 
tinue down  to  the  present  time.  They  vary  much  in  content  and 
in  value  as  faithful  transcriptions  of  the  language  as  spoken  at  the 
time  when  they  were  written. 

Grammatical  Structure.  It  is  pertinent  to  ask  how  much 
help  in  translating  the  early  texts  is  to  be  derived  from  a  grammar 
such  as  the  present  work.  The  thesis  has  been  advanced  in  this 
paper  that  it  is  probable  the  grammatical  structure  of  the  language 
has  not  changed  appreciably  from  early  to  late  times.  If  this  is 
the  case,  and  the  ancient  as  well  as  the  modern  texts  were  written 
grammatically,  there  would  be  little  difficulty,  as  far  as  the 
grammar  is  concerned,  in  understanding  the  early  examples  of 
written  Maya.  Observations  have  led  me  to  believe,  however,  that 
the  early  texts  were  not  written  with  much  regard  for  grammar, 
even  the  Maya  grammar  built  upon  a  Latin  model.  It  is  unusual 
to  find  in  the  early  texts  examples  of  the  greater  part  of  the  ex- 
pressions given  by  Beltran  and  the  other  early  grammarians.  Their 
illustrations  are,  of  course,  in  most  cases  grammatical  but  they  are 
not  taken  from  texts  but  are  isolated  sentences  made  up  to 
illustrate  the  special  points  to  which  references  are  made. 

It  seems  probable  that  the  early  Maya  texts  are  generally  lack- 
ing in  the  finer  shades  of  meaning  which  it  is  possible  to  express  in 
Maya  and,  furthermore,  it  is  not  to  be  expected  that  forms  not 
recognized  by  the  early  grammarians  would  always  find  expression 
in  the  texts. 

The  Books  of  Chilam  Balam,  that  most  fertile  source  of  texts  in 
Maya,  furnish  examples  of  this  lack  of  precise  grammatical  struc- 

111 


112  MAYA  TEXTS 

ture.  As  I  have  written  elsewhere  (1917,  p.  183),  "It  must  be  re- 
membered that  the  manuscripts  themselves  are,  no  doubt,  copies  of 
earlier  works,  collected  from  different  individuals  and  often  copied 
by  several  different  hands.  Some  of  the  manuscripts  seem  to  have 
been  the  work  of  those  who  did  not  know  Maya.  Several  different 
spellings  of  the  same  word  occur  and  common  Maya  words  are 
frequently  misspelled.  On  the  other  hand,  some  of  the  pages  seem 
to  show  a  surprising  ignorance  of  Spanish  —  Iglesia,  for  example, 
is  spelled  in  one  place  "Iglayci"  As  for  the  Latin  words  occurring 
sporadically  in  the  text,  one  is  not  surprised  to  find  forms  difficult 
to  recognize." 

It  seems  safe  to  say  that  these  famous  texts  are  often  illiterate 
in  the  sense  that  they  are  probably  copies  of  copies  and  have  been 
garbled  in  passing  from  hand  to  hand  to  say  nothing  of  the  fact 
that  in  the  beginning  they  probably  did  not  express  precisely  in 
every  case  all  the  forms  of  the  spoken  Maya.  We  return  then  to 
the  question  asked  at  the  beginning  of  the  section,  how  much  help 
is  a  grammar  in  the  translation  of  these  texts.  It  seems  to  me  that 
a  grammar  renders  surprisingly  little  aid  in  deciphering  the 
documents. 

Lexicography.  It  is  in  respect  to  the  vocabulary  that  the 
Maya  has  changed  most.  Words  have  become  obsolete.  New 
words  have  been  coined  and  Spanish  words  have  been  introduced 
in  greater  or  lesser  numbers.1  In  spite  of  the  tremendous  advantage 
of  possessing  three  early  Maya  dictionaries  it  is  often  not  possible 
to  determine  accurately  the  meaning  of  many  of  the  words  in  the 
early  texts.  Several  of  the  vocabularies  give  examples  of  Maya 
construction.  These  forms  are  helpful  in  many  cases  in  determin- 
ing homonyms. 

Even  where  there  are  parallel  texts  in  Spanish  and  Maya  as  in 
the  Doctrinas,  there  is  often  little  help  in  elucidating  the  Maya  as 
these  translations  are  usually  poorly  done,  not  necessarily  because 
of  an  ignorance  of  the  proper  words  but  from  a  general  lack  of 
forms  in  Maya  to  express  properly  the  ideas  contained  in  the 
"hiperboles  y  alegorias"  of  ecclesiastical  Spanish  or  Latin.2 

1  Compare  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  145,  146. 

2  Perez  (1844)  writes  very  pertinently  on  this  point  as  follows,  "Si  consider  a- 
mos  igualmente  que  los  antiguos  escritores  de  doctrina  y  pldticas  eran  unos  seniles 


INTRODUCTION  113 

On  the  other  hand,  the  Xiu  Chronicles,  the  Libro  de  Calcalchen 
and  other  secular  texts  furnish  some  excellent  examples  of  parallel 
accounts  in  the  Maya  and  Spanish  of  wills  and  other  legal  docu- 
ments. Martinez  Hernandez  writes  substantially  as  follows  in  a 
personal  letter  concerning  the  collection  of  documents  in  the  Libro 
de  Calcalchen,  "The  Maya  is  very  old  and  is  a  splendid  specimen 
of  Maya  literature.  Some  expressions  are  unusual  and  are  to  be 
translated  only  after  very  diligent  research.  As  we  are  familiar  to 
a  certain  extent  with  the  forms  of  the  Ordenanzas,  they  would  help 
us  to  translate  properly  and  pave  the  way  for  other  future  transla- 
tions. I  am  fully  convinced  that  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam  can 
be  translated  after  translating  all  these  documents.  Before  this 
literature  came  into  my  hands  there  were  many  words  in  the  vo- 
cabularies the  use  of  which  I  did  not  know." 

The  later  Maya  texts  are  naturally  far  easier  to  translate  on  ac- 
count of  the  fewer  changes  in  the  vocabulary. 

The  " particles  of  adornment"  are  many  in  Maya.1  They  add 
to  the  pleasure  of  the  spoken  Maya  but  they  cause  no  little  con- 
fusion in  deciphering  the  written  language. 

There  is  a  large  number  of  words  in  Maya  with  a  comparatively 
large  number  of  onomatopoeic  words.2 

Orthography.  The  spelling  of  the  Maya  words  is  often  far 
from  consistent.    This  is  especially  true  of  words  with  the  glottal- 

traductores  de  las  hiptrboles  y  alegorias  de  la  lengua  castellana  y  latina,  vendrtmos 
en  conocimiento  que  estos  modos  de  decir  no  podian  generalizarse  entre  los  indios, 
como  ajenos  y  distintos  a  los  que  el  genio  de  su  lengua  demandaba;  asi  es  que  la 
expresion  jigurada  de  llamar  a  este  mundo  un  'valle  de  lagrimas,'  no  es  usada  entre 
los  indios,  y  cuando  la  encuentran  traducida  literalmente  en  la  Salve,  la  encuentran 
pesada  y  no  hacen  de  ella  aplicacion  alguna,  y  si  alguno  muy  ladino  quiere  aplicar 
la  idea,  lo  hace  como  muchas  veces  lo  he  oido,  con  las  palabras  de  ucahal  numya 
(pueblo  6  lugar  de  miserias  6  trabajos),  que  para  ellos  tienen  igual  fuerza,  es  el 
mismo  sentido,  y  diferentes  las  voces.  Hay  algunas  figuras  castellanas  que  no 
pueden  traducirse  literalmente  al  idioma  sin  ridiculez." 

1  Compare  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  144  who  writes,  "No  obstante,  las  particulas 
compositivas  que  no  modifican  el  sentido,  son  muchisimas,  las  cuales,  efectiva- 
mente,  solo  contribuyen  a  la  variedad  de  las  formas  de  la  expresion  consfituyendo 
asi,  como  el  indicado  padre  Beltran  dice,  l  particulas  adornativas '  que  facilitan 
giros  de  estilo  de  que  resulta  un  lenguaje  elegante  y  artistico  cuando  se  habla  Men  el 
idioma.'* 

2  Compare  Palma  y  Palma,  p.  133-134,  258-269,  307. 

See  discussion  of  the  various  dictionaries  in  Part  III  (p.  169). 


114  MAYA  TEXTS 

ized  consonants  and  those  with  doubled  vowels.  In  several  cases  c 
is  used  for  z  or  s  and  in  these  instances  the  omission  of  the  cedilla 
with  the  c  is  a  cause  of  great  annoyance,  changing,  for  example, 
cical  (sisal)  to  cical  (kikal).  The  omission  of  the  bar  with  the  h 
and  p  also  adds  to  the  confusion.  In  the  early  texts  there  is  no 
proper  division  into  words  and  sentences.  Just  as  a  word  may  be 
spelled  in  several  different  ways  on  the  same  page  so  a  word  may 
be  divided  in  many  different  ways  in  succeeding  lines.1  This  lack 
of  consistency  in  writing  and  spacing  the  Maya  is  a  cause  of 
great  confusion.2  The  Berendt  copies  of  many  of  the  Chilam 
Balam  texts  are  very  useful  in  this  respect.3  The  punctuation  as 
used  in  the  early  documents  is  of  no  value  whatsoever  and  the 
very  common  failure  to  capitalize  proper  names  is  still  another 
cause  of  difficulties. 

Chirography.  The  handwriting  in  these  early  texts  is  often 
very  difficult  to  make  out.  There  is  usually  a  complete  failure  to 
distinguish  between  v  and  b.  Several  different  varieties  of  hand- 
writing are  often  seen  in  the  same  manuscript. 

Possibility  of  Translation.  I  have  already  discussed  in  an- 
other place  the  possibility  of  a  faithful  translation  of  the  ancient 
Maya  texts,  especially  those  of  the  Chilam  Balam  Books  (Tozzer, 
1917).  I  am  still  of  the  opinion  that  many  parts  of  the  early  docu- 
ments will  defy  translation.4   These  portions  are,  for  the  most  part, 

1  On  a  single  page  in  the  Chumayel  manuscript  within  six  lines  the  following 
varieties  of  spelling  and  spacing  are  found : 

uhool  u  poop  u  hoi  pop 

uhol    u  pop  u  holpop 

u  hoi  u  poop 
Compare  the  different  versions  of  the  same  prophecy  as  given  in  the  Tizimin, 
the  Chumayel  and  the  Liz  ana  texts  (p.  122). 

2  In  the  Chumayel  version  of  one  of  the  prophecies  (Chilam  Balam  de 
Chumayel,  p.  106)  there  is  found,  for  example,  the  following  division  of  words : 
ytzam  =  nakauil  for  ytzamna  kauil.  As  Ytzamna  is  a  main  god  of  the  Mayas, 
one  would  think  that  the  copyist  would  have  known  how  to  write  this  name 
properly. 

3  Compare  Tozzer,  1917,  p.  183. 

4  I  have  submitted  this  portion  of  the  manuscript,  as  well  as  a  great  part  of 
the  remainder,  to  Seiior  Juan  Martinez  Hernandez  and  he  agrees  with  me  in 
all  the  statements  contained  in  Part  II.  He  writes,  "The  parts  dealing  with 
their  ancient  mythology  and  the  esoteric  language  of  the  Maya  priests  may 


THE  INDIANS  OF  CHAN  SANTA  CRUZ  115 

those  dealing  with  Maya  ritual  and,  in  a  figurative  way,  with  the 
coming  of  the  new  religion  and  the  change  to  the  worship  of  the 
true  God.1 

Many  parts  are  translatable  but  only  after  the  most  careful 
study.  There  is  a  great  opportunity  for  mistakes  and  there  are 
many  places  where  more  than  one  rendering  of  the  text  is  possible. 
It  is  in  such  places  that  time  and  patience  are  needed. 

There  follow  some  examples  of  Maya  texts  with  translations, 
starting  with  the  modern  Maya  and  going  back  to  the  Maya  of  the 
Prophecies  and  of  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam. 

1.  THE  INDIANS  OF  CHAN  SANTA  CRUZ2 

Tu    haab-il     1847      liqil  u-ka-pul  le-wink-ob  leeti 

In     the  year  1847    arose     for  second  time     these  men  (Indians)        this 

u-haab-il       tal-ob       u-took-ob  Saki  tan  nohots     kah: 

its  year    they  came      to  burn       Valladolid  in  the  midst  of  a  large  pueblo : 

yaab    pal-al    tu-kim-s-ob : 3      be-san         tulakal         kah-ob  tu-took- 

many     boys      they  killed:       thus  also  all      the  habitations        they 

ah-ob  ku A  o'ok-ol  ka-bin-ob  Santa  Cruz       u-qaba 

burned  when  its  completion    again  they  went  (to)    Santa  Cruz       its  name 

tak      helae        ti-an-ob 5  ti       buk-ah     haab      yaab :     yet  wink-il-ob 

until      now     there  they  are  there    so  many    years    many :    and       men 

o'oki  u-kim-s-ik-ob :        luum        utsuk        man-ob  nohots: 

they  have  just  finished      killing:      the  land     where       they  pass        is  great: 

yaab-ob  san :  helae    u-yum        oik  benil        Mexico 

(there  are)  many  (of)  the  same  ones:     now  their  lord,  his  Honorable   Mexico 

tun  sup-ik         u-taqin      yetel     u-meq-tan-ob      yoklal  u-o'ok-s-ik 

he  is  spending  his  money     and      his  dependents    so  that    they  cause  to  end 

prevent  or  defy  translation.  ...  It  is  by  the  abundance  of  these  examples 
(Maya  constructions  given  in  the  vocabularies)  that  we  can  find  our  way  in 
ascertaining  so  many  homonyms  of  the  brief  and  concise  monosyllabic  Maya. 
Compound  verbs  are  difficult  to  make  out.  These  are  often  conjugated  as 
simple  verbs  with  additional  words  completing  the  same." 

1  Compare  in  this  respect  the  variation  in  the  Maya  of  the  same  text  (p.  122) 
as  well  as  the  different  possibilities  in  translating  the  Maya. 

2  This  text  was  collected  by  the  author  in  1900  at  Uayma,  near  Valladolid, 
Yucatan,  from  an  Indian  named  Marcelino  Tas. 

3  Or  tu-kim-s-ah-ob,  they  caused  to  die. 

4  Ku,  a  contraction  of  ka-u. 

6  This  is  really  a  contraction  of  ti-yan-ob. 


116  MAYA  TEXTS 

le-batel-o:  utial         le-wink-ob-o    hu-hum-p'it-il  tuno'ok-ol: 

that  war:    in  order  that     those  men       one  by  one      may  be  exterminated : 

tan       §an  u-boot-k-ob  tulakal      baa§         u-meya-m-ob 

they      also       are  paying  (the  penalty  for)        all         which        they  worked 

ti  Yucatan:         yan         u-o'ok-ol         tumen         o'u-qut§-ul  tu  haab-il 

in  Yucatan :      there  is      its  ending       because     it  has  arrived  the  year 

u-o'ok-ol:       le-buk-ah     luum      yan-il-ob  bin-u-kah  p'atal 

its  completion :     all  that       land  where  they  are  they  are  coming     to  leave 

yalan       u-qab  yum        halat§       winik      tu  sebal:     behelae       yaab 

under     his  arm       the  lord       great         man     as  quickly:        now  many 

mak  o'ok  u-kah-al     te  Santa  Cruz:      u-t§ikul      tu  o'oko[l] 

persons  finished  (making)  their  town     in  Santa  Cruz :     its  sign  of     its  ending 

tumen  mi-nan  u-o'on       le-wink-ob  hebis  le  bin-s-ah 

because     there  are  no        guns  the  men      like  (the  ones)       they  raised 

yoqol-ob       leeti      utsben  baal:      kin  sut-in-wal-e     utsben   o'on-ob 

above  them     this   (in  )f ormer      custom :     I  return  to  say     the  former  guns 

ma    tan  u-pat-al-ob  ma      be        ut§i:  qut§        tu  haab-il 

they  are  not  serviceable  (it  was)  not     thus  formerly :  there  came    the  year 

tu      yalkab-an-s-ob  o'ul  tumen    masewal       ku  o'ok-ol 

they     caused  to  run      the  strangers      lor    the  Indians  after   the  completion 

ka-sut-n-ah-i  yoqol-ob       ma  tu  met-h-ob     misbal      tak    behelae : 

when  they  returned  above  them      they  did  not  do  anything  until     now: 

ud        san     yoqlal    u-yan-tal  ka-p'el  hol-be     utial        yookol      koon-ol 

it  is  well  also    because  they  have     two       doors  in  order    to  enter      to  sell 

tile  wai       laqin:      tak     behelae        ooo-il  u-kah-il-ob  utsik 

by  here  the  east :  until       now    are  the  poor  the  ones  of  the  pueblo  formerly 

u-took-(i)k-ob     yaab       baal:  ut§i  qas-ob  tumen        tu 

they  burn       many      things :      formerly      they  are  bad        because     they 

qas-kun-t-h-ob         behelae      tune        tun        yil-k-ob         ba§         u-o'ok 

bad  things  they  did         now        finally      they  see  it         what        its  end 

lobil-il  bisa  wa       uo-h-oob       misma     bin      me-t-ik         San 

to  the  wickedness  how    if     they  are  good  nothing  comes   to  cause    the  same 

lob-ti-ob:    behelae       mi§un     noq-ob      misun      han-l-ob:     yan       tsen 

evil  things:      now        nothing     clothes     nothing        to  eat:     there     is  only 

tu  tsun-t§e  ku  wen-l-ob       tei  yahal-kab-ti-ob: 

the  branches    of  the  tree  where  they  sleep  there  they  wake  up  in  the  morning: 

be-ku-ka§-t-ob  ha       yuq-ob       be      tei     ku-kim-1-oob        u-hut§ 

thus  then  they  seek  water  to  drink    thus  there       they  die       in  the  greater 

yaa-h-il  leeti  le-ooo-il     pal-al      ku-kim-1-ob     tak     tun   leeti-ob  boo-t-ik 

misery    these      poor      children   they  may  die    until   they      these        pay 


THE  INDIANS  OF  CHAN  SANTA  CRUZ  117 

u-sipil  u-tata-ob       u-han-1-ob      tsen  u-moo'-tSe  yetel 

their  sins      their  fathers      they  eat        only      the  roots  of  the  trees        with 

yit§-t§e  mi-nan     §iim:       utial      u-man-s-ik       u-kus-tal-ob 

the  fruit  of  the  trees    there  is  no    maize :    in  order  to  carry  on         their  lives 

yetel     tut§i        qaanab  tei-        ku-ka§-t-ik      u-ku§-tal-ob. 

and      gifts       of  the  sea      there      they  seek  it         their  lives. 

Free  Translation 

For  the  second  time,  in  the  year  1847,  these  Indians  rose  in  arms. 
That  is  the  year  in  which  they  came  to  burn  Valladolid,  the  large 
city.  They  killed  many  people.  They  also  burned  all  the  houses. 
After  they  had  finished,  they  returned  to  the  place  called  Santa 
Cruz  where  they  are  now  and  where  they  have  been  for  many  years. 
They  have  just  been  killing  men  of  their  own  race.  The  land 
where  they  live  is  large.  There  are  many  of  them  there.  Now  their 
master  is  the  President  of  Mexico.  He  is  spending  his  money  and 
his  people  also  in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the  war,  in  order  that  these 
men,  one  by  one,  may  be  exterminated.  They  are  paying  the 
penalty  for  all  they  did  in  Yucatan.  It  has  to  end  because  the 
time  for  the  ending  has  come.  All  that  land  where  they  are  is 
about  to  come  under  the  rule  of  the  President.  Many  persons  have 
already  gone  to  live  in  Santa  Cruz.  This  is  a  proof  of  the  ending 
of  the  war  because  those  Indians  do  not  now  have  guns  like  the 
ones  they  formerly  carried.  I  repeat,  the  old  guns  are  now  good 
for  nothing,  nothing  like  the  former  ones  with  which  they  put  to 
flight  the  Spaniards  (strangers) .  After  the  Indians  had  finished  the 
attack,  they  have  done  nothing  up  to  the  present  time.  This  is 
also  well  because  they  have  two  avenues  to  sell  their  wares  here 
in  the  east.  Even  to-day  the  villagers  are  poor  because  they  for- 
merly burned  many  things.  Formerly  they  were  bad  because  they 
did  bad  things.  Now,  finally,  they  see  the  result  of  their  wicked- 
ness; now,  if  they  are  good,  nothing  comes  to  cause  the  same  evil 
things.1  Now  they  have  neither  clothes  nor  food.  They  have  only 
the  branches  of  the  trees  under  which  to  sleep  where  morning 

1  Martinez,  who  has  been  good  enough  to  offer  many  suggestions,  has 
translated  this  still  more  freely  as  follows:  —  "Formerly  they  were  bad  be- 
cause they  had  bad  examples  set  before  them,  now,  then,  they  can  discrimi- 
nate better  what  is  right  and  what  is  wrong  and  will  no  longer  do  any  harm  to 
them." 


118  MAYA  TEXTS 

awakens  them.  They  seek  water  to  drink.  They  thus  die  in  the 
greatest  misery,  this  poor  people.  They  may  die  until  they  pay  for 
the  sins  of  their  fathers.  They  eat  only  the  roots  of  the  trees  and 
the  fruit  of  the  trees.  There  is  no  maize  to  nourish  them.  In  order 
to  find  nourishment  they  go  to  the  shores  of  the  sea. 

2.     LACANDONE  CHANT 

Fifty-one  chants  were  collected  by  the  writer  in  1902  and  1903 
among  the  Lacandones  of  Chiapas,  Mexico.  These  people,  as 
already  pointed  out,  speak  practically  the  same  dialect  of  the  Maya 
stock  as  that  of  the  natives  of  Yucatan.  The  language  of  these 
chants  is  generally  simple.  Syllables  are  often  added  at  the  end 
of  words  to  preserve  a  rhythm.  The  single  chant  given  here  has 
already  been  published  (Tozzer,  1907,  p.  171-172).  I  have  given  a 
more  literal  translation  than  that  previously  printed.  The  reader 
is  referred  to  the  former  paper  (p.  169-189)  for  the  other  chants. 

When  Copal  and  Posole  are  Distributed  in  the 
Ceremony  of  Renewing  the  Incense-Burners 

Tan        in  kub-ik  in  pom  k-et§         tiala  kub-ik 

I  am       restoring  it       my  offering  of  copal    to  you      for  you         to  restore  it 

t-ik *  yum         tiala        nas-ik 2      t-ik         yum.  Hen     boo-t-ik-ets 

to       the  father,  for  you  to  raise  it    up  to  the  father.     I  will     pay  it  to  you 

in  tsula  t-ets  uhel         a         kunya       tiala        kub-t-ik 

my  offering  of  posol  to  you  again  (for)  your    welfare    for  you    to  restore  it 

yum.  Hen  boo-t-ik-et§     in  tsula  t-ets  tiala       ti-lili. 

to  the  father.     I  will  pay  it  to  you  my  offering  of  posol  to  you  for  you  yourself. 

Tan  in  mee-t-ik    in   sil   t-ets-ki         uhel  a      kunya.      Bin-in-kin 3  pok 

I  am  making  it    my  gifts  to  you  again  (for)  your  welfare.  I  am  about  to  dry 

in    sil       t-ets  ma  tu  buh-ul  ma  u  lak-al 

my  gifts  to  you,  may  they  not  be  affected  by  crumble    may  they  not  separate 

u-hol  in      sil     t-ets.        Ma    tu  wak-al    in     sil  t-ets. 

(as  to)  their  heads  my  gifts  to  you.    May  they  not  crack    my  gifts  to  you. 

Ma     tu       pas-al        in  sil  t-et§.  II     in        mee-t-ik     in     sil     t-ets, 

May  they  not  break  my  gifts  to  you.  See  my  making  them  my  gifts  to  you, 

1  Kub-ik  t-ik  is  equivalent  to  kub-t-ik. 

2  nas-ik  is  the  same  as  nak-s-ik. 

3  Literally,  I  am  going  to. 


A  MAYA  WITCH  STORY  119 

yume.  Ma  tu  lub-ul  tsak-wil-ki.  Bin-in-k-in  pul-ik     et§ 

oh  father.    May  not  be  affected  by  a  fall        fever.       I  am  about  to  place  you 

yoko       tumu     lak.       II     in       mee-t-ik       in     sil     t-et§      uhel 
(the  idol)  in  the       new  brasero.  See  my  making  them  my  gifts  to  you    again 

a  kunya.         II        in  mee-t-ik         in      sil      t-et§      tia  yol 

(for)  your  welfare.     See  my  making  them    my  gifts  to  you     for    the  health 

in  pal-al.  Ma  u  nak-tan-t-ik  yah-il,         ma    u 

my  children.     May  not  trample  them  under  foot      harm,         my  not  trample 

nak-tan-t-ik      keel,  ma  u  nak-tan-t-ik  tsak-wil.      Ooken 

them  under  foot  cold,    may  not  trample  them  under  foot       fever.        Enter, 

ta  simbal     a     wil-ik    in  pal,    a-kun-e  in    pal. 
walk      you    see     my  son,      cure      my    son. 

3.  A  MAYA  WITCH  STORY 

The  original  text  was  collected  by  Berendt  in  Peten  in  1866. 
The  manuscript  is  now  in  the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection  (Br. 
498.  21.  M.  L.  545).  The  text  and  an  English  translation  of  Be- 
rendt's  German  translation  were  published  by  Brinton  (1883  and 
1890) .  A  few  changes  have  been  made  and  a  literal  translation  has 
been  added.  The  simple  tale  shows  certain  features  which  seem  to 
be  of  European  origin. 

Hun-tul  H-sib  o'ook-u-bel  yetel  hun-tul   i-s-ts'up  ma     tu-yohel-t-ah    wa 
One       man       married      with       one      woman  not  did  he  know  her    as 

s-wai.      Hun-p'e     qin    tu    yal-ah-ti,    "  Huts'e  ka-p'el        mut         taab." 
a  witch.        One        day    he  said  to  her,  "Grind      two      measures  of  salt." 

Tu        huts'-ah    paibe     ka       tu       qat-ah,      "  Baas  tial         tets?  " 

She  ground  them  first     when  she  asked  him,  "  Why      [do]  you  [wish  it?]  " 

Hun-p'el   aqab      pisaan    H-sib-e      ka       tu     yil-ah      u-hoq-ol        u-yatan. 
One       night      awoke    the  man  when    he       saw    she  goes  out    his  wife. 

Ka     tu-tsa-ah    u     maskabe,     ka      tu      mukul      t'ul-bel-ah    tu  pat§     ti 
When    he  took    his         axe,       when    he     secretly    followed  her  behind    to 

qas.  Ka  qutsi-ob        ti     tsitsan    tsaqan,      yan        u        sas-il 

the  wood.    When    they  arrived    at     a  little  pasture,  there  is  its  brightness 

uh.  Ka     tu  muk-u-b-ah    H-sib  tu      booy      nohots       yas-tse. 

a  moon.     When  he  hid  himself,  the  man,   in  the  shade    of  a  great  seiba  tree. 

Ka         tu       pul-ah        u  noq  s-ts'up  tu  pats  waan 

When     she      threw      her      clothes,     the  woman,      behind  her      standing 


120  MAYA  TEXTS 

§-ma-buk  tu    tan        uh;  ka      tu        o'ip-ah       u-yot'el, 

she  without  covering    in  its  face  the  moon;  when  she  stripped  off    her  skin, 

ka  kul-hi  tsem-bak:  ka  nak-i        ti       kaan:         ka 

when      she  remained    mere  bones:      when     she  arose     to    the  sky:     when 

em-i         tu-ka-ten,     ka      tu-yal-ah-i:  "  Sao'aba         §ta-kaan? " 

she  descended      again,     when   he  said  to  her,  "stretch  yourself  to  the  sky?  " 

Hemak    ma      utsak       u      nak-al    tu-ka-ten  tumen  tu  t'oot'-al    taab. 
But        not    possible    her  ascending  again    because   he   sprinkled    salt. 

Free  Translation 

A  man  (once)  married  a  woman.  The  man  did  not  know  that 
his  wife  was  a  witch.  One  day,  he  said  to  her,  "  Grind  two  meas- 
ures of  salt/'  She  ground  them  and  then  she  asked  him,  "  Why  do 
you  wish  this?"  One  night  he  awoke  and  saw  his  wife  go  out. 
Taking  his  axe,  he  secretly  followed  her  to  the  wood.  They  arrived 
at  a  little  pasture  in  the  bright  moonlight.  The  man  hid  himself  in 
the  shadow  of  a  great  seiba  tree.  The  woman  threw  her  clothes 
behind  her,  standing  naked  in  the  moonlight.  When  she  stripped 
off  her  skin  she  appeared  mere  bones.  Then  she  arose  into  the  sky, 
returning  again  (to  the  earth),.  Then  the  man  said  to  her,  "  Would 
you  reach  the  sky?  "  But  she  could  not  ascend  a  second  time  as  he 
sprinkled  salt. 

4.     PROPHECY  OF  CHILAM  BALAM 

This  is  one  of  the  Maya  prophecies  which  are  discussed  in  Part 
III  (p.  192). l    The  text  is  given  of  the  Chumayel  version  (Chilam 

r  This  prophecy  is  undoubtedly  the  one  referred  to  by  Cogolludo  (1688, 
p.  199)  and  also  in  the  Relation  de  la  Ciudad  de  Merida,  dated  1579  and  signed 
by  Gaspar  Antonio  Xiu  among  others.  This  Relation  is  reprinted  in  Coleccion 
de  Documentos  Intditos,  v.  11,  p.  37-75.  As  Martinez  Hernandez  has  pointed 
out,  this  statement  in  the  Merida  report  is  so  very  important  that  I  reprint  it 
here. 

"  Ubo  algunas  provincias  que  nunca  dieron  guerra,  sino  que  rrescibieron  a  los 
espanoles  de  paz,  en  especial  la  provintia  de  Tutulxiu  cuya  cabegera  era  y  es  el 
pueblo  de  Mani,  catorce  leguas  de  esta  tiudad  al  sueste,  donde  ubo  pocos  anos  antes 
que  los  espanoles  viniesen  a  conquistar  esta  tierra  un  yndio  principal,  que  era 
sacerdote,  llamado  Chilan-balam,  que  le  tenian  por  gran  prof  eta  y  adivino,  y  este 
les  dixo  que  dentro  de  breve  tiempo  vernia  de  hazia  donde  sale  el  sol  una  jente  blanca 

barbada,  y  que  traerian  levantada  una  serial  como  esta  *{*,  ala  qual  no  podian 


PROPHECY  OF  CHILAM  BALAM  121 

Balam  de  Chumayel,  p.  105-107),  the  Tizimin  version  (Chilam 
Balam  de  Tizimin,  Gates  reproduction,  p.  17,  18),  and  the  Lizana 
version  (Lizana,  1633;  ed.  1893,  p.  38-39).  I  have  added  a  read- 
ing of  the  Maya  text  as  interpreted  by  Martinez  Hernandez. 

The  variations  in  the  four  versions  should  be  noted,  not  only  in 
the  spellings  but  in  the  words  themselves.  The  Chumayel  version 
has  frequent  interpolations  by  the  author  of  the  copy.  The  trans- 
lation of  Lizana  which,  in  general,  is  that  followed  by  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  and  many  others  is  given  in  English  together  with  the 
Spanish  text.1  I  have  attempted  a  new  translation,  following  in 
the  main  the  Martinez  text.  In  a  few  cases  a  rendering  of  portions 
of  the  text  into  English  by  Martinez  is  given. 

It  will  be  noted  that  there  are  several  passages  which  still  remain 
far  from  clear  in  spite  of  the  different  authors  who  have  worked 
upon  them.  Lizana's  translation,  which  is  very  good  as  a  free 
rendering,  does  not  follow  the  text  at  all  closely  in  several  places. 
He  has  left  out  many  words  and  particles. 

This  passage  is  given  in  order  to  illustrate  some  of  the  difficulties 
spoken  of  in  the  introduction  to  this  section.  It  should  be  remem- 
bered that  these  Maya  texts  are  transcribed  into  the  system  of 
writing  Maya  adopted  in  this  work.  The  division  into  syllables 
is  the  work  of  the  author. 

llegar  sus  Dioses,  y  huyan  della,  yque  estajente  avia  de  senorear  la  tierra,  y  que  a  los 
que  los  rrecibiesen  de  paz  no  les  harian  mat  nynguno,  y  a  los  que  les  hiziesen  guerra 
los  matarian,  y  que  los  naturales  de  la  tierra  dejarian  sus  ydolos  y  adorarian  un  solo 
Dios,  que  ellos  adoraban  y  avian  de  predicar,  y  les  serian  tributarios,  e  hizo  tejer 
una  manta  de  algodon  y  les  dixo  que  de  aquella  suerte  avia  de  ser  el  tributo  que  les 
avian  de  dar,  y  mando  al  senor  de  Many,  que  se  llamaba  Mochanxiu,  que  ofreciese 
a  los  ydolos  aquella  manta  para  que  estubiese  guardada  y  quedase  por  memoria,  y 
aquella  serial  de  cruz  y  otras  hizo  hazer  de  piedra  labrada  y  ponerlas  en  los  patios 
de  los  templos  donde  pudiese  ser  vista  de  todos,  y  dixo  que  aquel  era  el  arbol  verde  del 
mundo,  e  yvan  aberla  mucha  jente  por  cosa  nueba,  y  parecia  que  la  beneraban  desde 
entonzes,  y  despues  quando  vinieron  los  espanoles  y  supieron  que  trayan  la  serial 
de  la  santa  cruz,  que  era  como  la  que  su  prof  eta  chilam  balam  les  avia  figurado, 
tuvieron  por  cierto  lo  que  les  avia  dicho,  y  determinaron  de  rrecebir  a  los  espanoles 
de  paz  y  no  les  hazer  guerra,  sino  ser  sus  amigos,  como  siempre  lo  han  sido  despues 
que  poblaron  estas  provincias,  y  les  ayudaron  con  mantenimientos  e  jente  de  guerra 
de  servicio  para  conquistar  e  pacificar  otras  provincias." 
1  For  bibliographical  notes  on  editions  of  this  Prophecy,  see  p.  192-194. 


122 


MAYA  TEXTS 


Tizimin:      u  profesia  Chilam  Balam       tis  kayom x  kabal      tsen  Man: 

Chumayel:  u  profeciado  de  Chilam  Balam  de  sis  koyom    ka-wi     tsen  Mani: 
Lizana:  profecias     de  Chilan  Kalam  de  sii  kayon    ka-wi      t§en  Mani: 

Martinez:    u  prof ecia  Chilam  Balam       tis  kayon  ka- wits     ts'en  Mani: 

Tozzer:        His  prophecy      Chilam  Balam       of  singer  Cawich  Chen2  of  Mani 
Martinez :  Kayom 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana: 


oslahun 
oslahun 
oslahun 
oslahun 
In  13 


Ahau  u-heo'i-wil 
Ahau  u-hiho'-wil 
Ahau  u-heo'i-wil 
Ahau  u-heo'i-wil         Qatun 

Ahau  its  established  Katun 


At  the  end  of  the  13th  epoch  being  in  power 


Martinez: 


Qatun     walak-wil 

Qatun-e  walak-wil 

Qatun     walak-wil 

walak-wil 

at  this  time 

it  may  be 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana: 


Itza 
Itza 
Itza 
Itza 


walak-wil 
walak-wil 
walak-wil 
walak-wil 


tan-kahe 
tan-kah-e 
tan-kat§-e 
tan-kah-e 


yum 
yum-e 
yum 
yum-e 


u-tsikul  hunab 
u-tsikul  hunab 
u-tsikul  hunab 
u-tsikul  hunab 


the  Itzas  at  this  time  in  Tancah 
the  Itzas  (and  )Tancah  3 


oh  Father  his  sign  the  only 
the  sign  of  a 


Martinez :  ye  Itzas   it  may  be     ye  citizens  4       Sirs, 


qu  kanal  u-lom  u-aom-tse 

qu  kanal  hu-lom  u-aom-tse 

qu  kanal  hu-lom  u-alom-tse 

qu  kanal  hu-lom  u-ahom-t§e  5 

God  on  high  his  cross  his  cross  of  wood 

God  (who  is)  on  high  (will  come)  the  cross 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana : 

Martinez :  will  come  from  heaven  (to  us) 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana : 

Martinez : 


etsah-om  ti  kah-e        u-tsebal 

etsah-an  ti  bal-kah-e  u-tsebal 

etkah-an  ti  kats-e        u-tsewal 

etsah-an  ti  bal-kah-e  u-tsebal 


the  cross 

u-sas-hal 
u-sas-hal 
u-kas-hal 
u-sas-hal 


a  demonstration  to  the  world  with  which  day  breaks 
will  show  itself  to  the  world  with  which  was  lighted 
will  be  shown      to  the  world  so  that         be  enlightened  the 


yoqol 
yoqol 
yoqal 
yoqol 
above 


1  The  verb,  to  sing,  is  qai.  The  text  is  clearly  kay  which  is  translated  by 
Martinez  as  a  proper  noun. 

2  There  is  a  town  of  this  name  near  Mani. 

3  Lizana  interpolates.    See  his  translation,  p.  129. 

4  Martinez  translates  this  ciudadano  6  el  que  vivo  en  el  centro  6  medio  del 
pueblo  (Ticul,  p.  164).  He  notes  that  Tancah  had  been  destroyed  with  Maya- 
pan  many  years  previously. 

5  Martinez  writes,  "  u-ahom-tse  is  the  tree  of  life,  arbol  de  nuestra  subsis- 
tencia  and  wa-om-tse  is  picota,  horca,  the  cross  of  Jesus,  his  punishment." 


PROPHECY  OF  CHILAM  BALAM 


123 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana : 


kab-e 
kab-e 
kab-e 
kab-e 


yum 
yum-e 
yum 
yum 


uts 


ut§ 


o'uni 
o'uni  to 
o'uni 
o'uni 


the  earth,  oh  Father  a  long  time  ago  there  began 
the  earth,  there  will  be 


Martinez:  world,         Sirs, 


for  a  long  time    there  has  been 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 
Liz.: 
Mar.: 
Tozzer: 
Lizana : 


mok-tam-ba  o'uni 

mok-tan-ba  uts  o'uni 

mok-tan-ba  o'uni 

mok-t'an-ba  uts  o'uni 

fighting  with  one  another  a  long  time  ago  there  began 
a  division 


Martinez:  political  divisions 


for  a  long  time    there  has  been 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana : 

Martinez : 

Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana : 

Martinez : 

Tiz.: 
Chu.: 
Liz. : 
Mar.: 
Tozzer : 
Lizana: 
Martinez : 


sawinal 
sawinal 
kawinal * 
sawinal 

confusion 


ka  tal-on 
ka  tal-on 
ka  tal-om 
ka  tal-on 

when  we  came 


tipul 
tipul 
ti  pul 
tipul 


tsikul 
tsikul 
tsikul 
tsikul 


among  the  wills  2  when  is  brought 
discord 


carrying  the  sign: 

the  sign  (in  the  future) 


quutsmal 
utsmal-e 
utsmal 
utimal-e 


ah  qin  winik-e 
ah  qin-i  winik-e 
ah  qin  winik-e 
ah  qin  winik-e 


yum 
yum-e 
yum 
yum-e 


hun-awat 3  hun 
hun-awat  hun 
hun-awat  hun 
hun-awat  hun 


at  another  time  the  priest  of  the  men  the  Father  one  quarter  (of)  one 
before  arriving  the  priests,  men  a  quarter  (and)  a 

in  that  time       ye  priests  of  the  idols 


lub-i 
lub-i 
lub-i 
lub-i 


wil 
wil 
wil 
wil 


u-tal 
u-tal 
u-tal 
u-tal 


a-wil-ik-es  mut-e 
a-wil-k-es  mut-e 
a-wil-k-es    mut-e 


league  so  that  it  comes  you  will  see  fame 
league  you  will  see 


quetzal  bird 


u-tip'il  yetel 
u-t'ipil  yetel 
u-tip'il  yetel 
appearing  with 
appearing 


1  This  reading  of  Lizana  is  doubtless  due  to  the  omission  of  the  cedilla 
under  the  c  making  it  k  instead  of  s. 

2  The  Spanish  is  voluntaries. 

3  This  is  literally,  one  grito,  a  numeral  suffix  used  to  count  miles  and  quarters 
of  a  league. 

4  The  idea,  as  interpreted  by  Martinez,  is  that  the  quetzal  will  appear  with 
the  Maya  cross  as  it  is  represented  on  the  bas-reliefs  at  Palenque. 


124 


MAYA  TEXTS 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana : 

Martinez: 


ahom x  wil  kab      hun    saman  hun  tsiqin 

u-aom-tse  a  ho-hom  kab  hun    saman  hun  tsiqin 

u-aom-tse  ahom  wil  kab      hun    saman  hun  tsaqin 

u-ahom-tse  ahom  wil  kab      hun    saman  hun  tsiqin 

his  cross  of  wood    illuminate  the  earth  one    south  one  west 

the  cross  illuminate  from  pole  to  pole 

the  Maya  cross  will  illuminate  the  world  in  the  four  cardinal  points. 


Tiz.:  ahom  Itzamna  qawil :  tal-el  u-kah 

Chu. :  ahom  Itzamna  qawil  tal-el  u-kah 

Liz.:  ahuom  Itzamna  qawil:  tal-el  u-ah 

Mar.:  ahom  Itzamna  qabwil:  tal-el  u-kah 

Tozzer:  illuminate  Itzamna,Kabwil 2;  he  is  coming 

Lizana:  (the  worship  of)  vain  gods  will  cease;  he  is  coming 


Tiz.: 
Chu.: 
Liz.: 
Mar. : 
Tozzer : 


a  yum  Itza 
ka  yum  Itza 
ka  yum  Itzaa 
ka  yum  Itza 

your  father,  Itzas 


tal-el  u-kah 
tal-el  u-kah 
tal-el  u-kah 
tal-el  u-kah 

he  is  coming 


Lizana:       your  father,  oh,  Itzas        he  is  coming 


u 

ka 

a 


sas-kun 
su-kun 
su-kun 
su-kun 

your  brother, 
your  brother 


Martinez : 


they  are  coming        your  brothers 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 
Liz.: 
Mar.: 
Tozzer: 
Lizana : 


tan  tun-e : 
ah  tan  tun-e : 
tan  tunk: 
ah  tan  kun-e : 


qam 
qam 
qama 
qam 


a-wula 
a-wula-ob 
a-wula 
a-wula 


ah-mes-ob 
ah-mes-ob 
ah-u-mes-ob 
ah-mes-ob 


place  him  ahead  of  others;  receive  your  guests  the  bearded  ones 
oh,  Tantunites;  receive  your  guests  the  bearded  ones 


Tiz.: 
Chu.: 
Liz.: 
Mar.: 
Tozzer : 


liqin 

ah    liqin 

liqin 

liqin 

the  east, 


Lizana:       (of)  the  east 


kab-ob 
kab-ob 
kab-ob 
kab-ob 

the  villagers 


ah-pul-ob 
ah-pul 
ah-pul 
ah-pul 

the  carriers 


tu  tsikul 
tu  tSikul 
tu  t§ikul 
tu  tsikul 

his  sign 


(who  come)  to  carry     the  sign  (of) 


1  ahom  from  anal. 

2  Martinez  has  pointed  out  in  Lizana  (1633  ed.  1883,  f .  4  ob)  the  following 
quotation  in  reference  to  this  place  in  the  text,  "Falso  Dios  Ytsmat  vl,  donde 
pusieron  lafigura  de  la  mano,  que  les  servia  de  memoria;  y  dizen  que  alii  le  llevaban 
los  muertos,  y  enfermos,  y  que  alii  resucitaban,  y  sanaban  tocandolos  la  mano,  y 
este  era  el  que  esta  en  la  parte  del  Puniente,  y  assi  se  llama  y  nombra  Kal  vl,  que 
quiere  desir,  mano  obradora." 


PROPHECY  OF  CHILAM  BALAM 


125 


Tiz.: 

qu  yum 

uoqa 

u-t'an 

qu  ku-tal-el 

Chu.: 

qu-e  yum-e 

uoqa 

u-t'an 

qu  ku-tal-el 

Liz.: 

qu-e  yum 

uoqa 

u-t'an 

qu  ku-tal-el 

Mar.: 

qu-e  yum 

uoka 

u-t'an 

qu  ku-tal-el 

Tozzer: 

God  the  Lord 

to  arrange    his  word 

God  who  may  come 

Lizana: 

God 

(It  is)  God  who  comes, 

Tiz.: 

qiknale 

tal-el  u-kah 

u-t'an-il               u-qin 

Chu.: 

kiknale 

tal-el  u-kah 

u-qin 

Liz.: 

kiknale 

tal-el  qa-u-kah 

i                               u-qin 

Mar. :    , 

yiknale 

tal-el  u-kah 

u-t'an-il               u-qin 

Tozzer : 

in  (your)  company, 

he  is  coming 

(to  bring)  order  the  time 

Lizana : 

(he  is)  gentle  and  pious, 

he  is  coming 

the  new 

Martinez 

to  establish  the  day 

Tiz.: 

ka  ku§-tal-e 

ma  a  sah-t-ik ] 

yoqol-kab-e 2      yum 

Chu.: 

ka  kus-tal-e 

ma  a  sah-t-ik 

yoqol-kab-e        yum-e 

Liz.: 

ka  kus-tal-e 

ma  ak  « 

i  sah-t-ik 

yoqol-kab-e        yum 

Mar.: 

ka  kus-tal-e 

ma  ah  sah-t-ik 

yoqol-kab-e        yum 

Tozzer: 

again  living: 

you  do  not  fear  him  above  the  earth  Father, 

Lizana : 

in  our  life : 3 

you  have  nothing  to  fear  from   the  earth 

Martinez 

:  of  resurrection 

Tiz.: 

lets            hunab  qu 

ts'ab-t-i 

koon  uo-tum-ba 

Chu.: 

tets            hunak  qu 

t§'ab-t-i 

kon    uh-tun-bak 

Liz.: 

tet§            hunak  qu 

tsab-t-i 

kom  u-uo-tun-bak 

Mar.: 

tets            Hunab  qu 

t§'ab-t-ik  koon  uo-tan-ba 

Tozzer: 

you            the  only  God 

created 

us       good  for  themselves 

Lizana : 

you  (are)  the  c 

>nly  God  (who)  created 

us       good 

Tiz.: 

u-t'an  qu-e 

yum 

Chu.: 

u-t'an  qu-e 

yum-e   y(etel)  ah-kan-ul                ka 

Liz.: 

u-t'an  qu-e 

yum 

Mar.: 

u-t'an  qu-e 

yum 

ah-kam-ul               ka 

Tozzer : 

his  words,  God 

Father  and 

the  caretaker  (of)    our 

Lizana : 

(are)  the  words  of  God 4 

1  Martinez  suggests  that  this  may  be  read,  a  despertar  6  iluminar  al  mundo, 
He  thinks  the  rendering  given  here  by  Lizana  and  by  the  author  is  more  prob- 
able however. 

2  Martinez  thinks  that  yoqol-kab  is  simply  "  the  earth  "  for  those  who  live 
in  it. 

3  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1883,  p.  530)  translates  this,  "ya  viene  el  tiempo  de 
nuestra  vida." 

4  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1883,  p.  530)  gives  this  as  the  translation  here.  Lizana 
omits  it,  probably  by  mistake.    • 


126  MAYA  TEXTS 

Tiz.: 

Chu. :  pisan  hemak    bin  qam       u-hats  okan-ti  yole    ti  kaan 

Liz.: 

Mar. :  pisan  hemak    bin  qam       u-hats  okan-ti  yole    ti  kaan 

Tozzer:  souls    he  who  goes  to  receive  very      true        faith  to  heaven 


Tiz.: 

Chu.:  u-bin        tu-pats        hewak       u-tsun       ka        qin  winik-il.1 

Liz.: 

Mar.:  u-bin        tu-pats        hewak       u-tsun       ka        bin  (?)     winik-il. 

Tozzer:       goes  ahead  but  begins        our       day  of  men. 

Lizana : 

Martinez :  porque  es  que  fueron  los  indios,  en  su  compania  el  dia  de  nuestra  re- 
division,  or  sea  cuando  principiemos  por  la  gracia  division  a  ser  hombres 
nuevamente. 


Tiz.: 

ka              wakunto    u-tsikul 

kanal 

ka 

a  wakunto   ka 

Chu.: 

ka              wakunto    u-tsikul 

kanal 

ka 

wakunto 

Liz.: 

ka              wakunto    u-tsikul 

kanal 

ka 

wakunto       ka 

Mar.: 

ka              wakunto    u-tsikul 

kanal 

ka 

wakunto       ka 

Tozzer: 

We             extol 

his  sign 

on  high, 

we 

extol,            we 

Lizana: 

(Let)  us     praise         his  sign 

on  high 

(let)  us     praise  it        by 

Tiz.: 

pak-te  helee 

ka 

wakunto 

u 

u-aom-tse 

Chu.: 

yetel 

ua-om-t§e 

Liz.: 

pak-te  hele 

ka 

wakunto 

yu 

a-om-tsek 

Mar.: 

pak-te  hele 

ka 

wakunto 

ua-hom-tse 

Tozzer: 

see  (it)  now 

we 

extol 

his 

;      cross  of  wood 

Lizana: 

seeing  and  adoring  it,      we 

must  praise 

the  cross: 

Tiz.: 

num-te  tan 

u-qes-ah 

oqol 

helee 

u-hel-tu-pats 

Chu.: 

num-te  tan 

uqas  a 

u-hoqol 

hele 

u-hel-tu-pats 

Liz.: 

num-te  tan 

uqes  a 

tsoqol 

hele 

u-hel-tu-pats 

Mar.: 

num-te  tan  (tak)  uqes  a 

wolah 

hele 

u-hel-tu-pats 

Tozzer: 

misery 

it  changed 

discord 

now 

restore 

Lizana : 

falsehood 

in  exchange 

to-day 

will  appear  against 

Tiz.: 

u-yas        tseel 

ka 

et  sah-om 

helel 

Chu.: 

u-yas        tseel 

kab 

et  sah-an 

helel 

Liz.: 

u-yah       tseel 

kab 

et  kah-an 

hele 

Mar.: 

u-yas        t§eel 

kab 

et  sah-an 

hele 

Tozzer: 

the  first    tree 

of  the  world: 

a  demonstration 

now 

Lizana : 

the  first    tree 

of  the  world 

a  demonstration 

to-day  (is  made) 

1  These  words,  given  only  in  the  Chumayel,  are  an  interpolation  by  the 
copyist  of  the  Chumayel  manuscript.  • 


PROPHECY  OF  CHILAM  BALAM 


127 


Tiz. :  ti  bal-kah-e   la  u-tsikul 

Chu. :  ti  bal-kah-e    la  u-tsikul 

Liz. :  ti  bal-kal-he  la  u-tsiqul 

Mar. :  ti  bal-kah-e   la  u-tsikul 

Tozzer:  to  the  world:  this  his  sign 

Lizana:  to  the  world:  (there  is  a)  sign 


hunab    qu  kanal         tal  ome 


hunab 
hunab 
hunab 
only 
of  a 


qu  kanal-e 
qu  kanal 
qu  kanal 
god  on  high 
god  on  high 


tal  emel 

come,  lower 


Tiz.: 
Chu.: 
Liz.: 
Mar. : 
Tozzer: 
Lizana : 

Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana : 

Martinez : 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 


laa 
lae 

laak 

la 

all 


qui  tes 
a-qul tes 
a-qul  tes 
a-qul tes 
reverence  you 
worship  it 


ah-Itzae  s 
ah-Itzae 
ah-Itzaao 
ah-Itzae 

oh,  Itzas 
oh,  Itzas 


ka 
ka 
ka 
ka 

and 
we 


a-qul-te 
a-qul-te 
a-qul-te 
a-qul-te 

reverence 


quliqul         kanal-e     kak      qul-te  to 


reverence 


qol-ah 
kol-ah 
kol-ah 
wol-ah 

good- will : 


kanal-e 

kanal 

kanal-e 

on  high 


ka 
ka 
ka 

and 


ka  a-qul-te 
ka  qul-te 
ka  a-qul-te 
ka  a-qul-te 
and    adore 


a-qul-te  to 
a-qul-te  to 

qul-te 

reverence 

shall  reverence 


to       ka 


hele 

helel 

hele 

hele 

now 


Lizana :      good- will : 


we  shall  adore 


tu 

tu 

tu 

tu 

with 

with 

with 


u-tslts-il 
u-tsikul 
u-tsiqlul 
u-tsikul 

his  sign, 


hah-il 
hah-il 
hah-ik 
hah-il 

true 
true 
all  your 


or  with    true 


hah-al  qu-e 

hah-al  qu      hehelae 

ka      hah-al  qak 

ka      hah-al  qu-e 

him    our     true  God   now 

our     true  God 


Martinez :  heart  or  good  faith 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 

Liz.: 

Mar.: 

Tozzer: 

Lizana: 

Martinez : 


okestaba  u-t'an  hunab 

yum-e        okestaba  u-t'an  hunab 

okestaba  u-t'an  hunab 

okestaba  u-t'an  hunab 

oh,  Father:  receive     his  word  only 

receive      the  word  (of)  the  true 


qu-e 

qu-e  yum-e 

qu-e  yum 

qu-e  yum 

God 

God 


believe      the  commandments  of  the  only   God 


Tiz.: 

Chu.: 
Liz.: 
Mar.: 
Tozzer: 


tal-i 
tal-i 
tal-i 
tal-i 

he  came 


kanal 
ti  kaan 
ti  kaan 
ti  kaan 
from  ori  high 


a-wah  fan l 

a-wah  fan  be 

a-wah  fan 

a  wah-f  an-e 

the  commandments: 


ul-e  kus-kin 
kus-kin 

u-e  kus-kin 
kus-kin 
invigorate 


Lizana :       (who)  comes   from  heaven    to  you  speaks : 


1  These  two  words  are  difficult  to  translate, 
mandments. 


I  suggest  halmah-fan,  com- 


128 


MAYA  TEXTS 


Tiz.: 

ta-wol-ah 

Itza 

ahom  J 

Chu.: 

ka-a-wol-ah 

Itzae 

ahom 

Liz.: 

qa-a-wol-ah 

Itzaa 

ah  horn 

Mar.: 

ka  wol 

ah  Itzae 

ah  horn 

Tozzer: 

your  good-will      Itzas 

illuminate 

Lizana : 

your  will 

(and  be  one)  of  the  Itzas       will  be  enlightened 

Tiz.: 

wilkab-ti-ob 

ok-s-ik  ti  yol  itsil                           u-yan-al 

Chu.: 

wilkab-ti-ob 

ok-s-ik-ob  ti  yol-e  it§il                  u-yan-al 

Liz.: 

wilkab-ti-ob 

ok-k-ik-ob  ti  yol  itsil                     u-yan-al 

Mar.: 

wilkab-ti-ob 

ok-s-ik-ob  ti  yol  itsil                     u-yan-al 

Tozzer: 

the  earth  for  them     cause  to  enter  the  spirit  within    its  other 

Lizana: 

those  who  believe  in                      to  come 

Tiz.: 

Qatun 

wale 

yab  tuba  in  fan 

Chu.: 

Qatun-e 

yum 

-e 

yoq  tuba  in  fan 

Liz.: 

Qutun 

yoq  tuba  in  fan 

Mar.: 

Qatun 

wale 

yok  tuba  in  fan 

Tozzer: 

Katun, 

afterwards : 

believe  (in)  my  words 

Lizana : 

the  age: 

Note 

if  you  care  (for  what)  I  say  (to  you), 

Tiz.: 

ken 

Chilam  Balam  ka 

in       ool-ah             u-fan 

Chu.: 

ken 

Chilam  Balam  ka 

in       ool-ah             u-fan 

Liz.: 

ken 

Chilan  Balan     kan  in       ool-ah             u-fan 

Mar.: 

ken 

Chilan  Balam   ka 

in       ool-ah             u-fan 

Tozzer: 

I  am 

Chilam  Balam  and  I         interpreted     his  word 

Lizana: 

I  charge 

Chilam  Balam 

your  interpreter;  I  say  (that  which) 

Tiz.: 

hahal 

qu 

in  bin 

Chu.: 

habal 

qu 

tu  sin-il-e 

yoqol-kab-e           yabi 

Liz.: 

hahal 

qu 

inbi 

Mar. : 

hahal 

qu 

tu  sin-il-e 

yoqol-kab-e           yubi 

Tozzer: 

the  true 

God     among  all 

above  the  earth    to  know      I  go 

Lizana: 

the  true 

God 

ordered 

Tiz.: 

hunak 

ouk  ti  kab. 

Chu.: 

hunak 

ouk  ti  kab-e. 

Liz.: 

hunak 

ouk  ti  kah. 

Mar.: 

hunak 

ouk  ti  kah-e. 

Tozzer: 

many 

portions  of  the  pueblo. 

Lizana : 

porque  dello 

sea  el  mundo  sabedor. 

1  The  text  from  here  to  the  end,  according  to  Martinez,  forms  the  "esoteric 
Maya  invocation  at  the  end  of  the  Katuns." 


PROPHECY  OF  CHILAM  BALAM  129 

Free  Translation 

The  Prophecy  of  Chilam  Balam,  the  singer  of  Cawich  Chen  of 
Mani.  In  the  Katun  beginning  in  Ahau  13,  the  Itzas  were  in 
Taricah  at  this  time.  Oh,  Father,  the  sign  of  the  only  God  on  high 
is  the  cross,  the  wooden  cross.  This  will  be  shown  to  the  world  so 
that  the  world  will  be  enlightened.  Oh,  Father,  a  long  time  ago, 
there  began  wranglings  and  confusion  when  we  came  bringing  the 
sign.  At  another  time,  the  priest  of  the  Indians  arrived.  From  a 
quarter  of  a  league  away  you  will  see  fame  coming  with  the  cross 
lighting  up  all  parts  of  the  world,  also  Itzamna  Kabwil.  Your 
Father,  oh  Itzas,  is  coming.  Your  brother  is  coming.  Place  him 
ahead  of  all.  Receive  your  guests,  the  bearded  men,  the  villagers 
from  the  East,  the  bearers  of  the  sign  of  God,  the  Father.  The 
Lord  is  coming  in  your  company  to  promulgate  his  command- 
ments. He  is  coming  to  arrange  the  day  of  resurrection.  You  do 
not  fear  him  who  is  above  the  earth.  Oh,  Father,  you  are  the  only 
God  who  created  us.  Good  are  the  commandments  of  God,  the 
Father,  the  caretaker  of  our  souls.  He  who  accepts  the  true  faith, 
goes  upwards  to  heaven.  Our  time  has  come  (?).  We  extol  his 
sign  above,  we  extol  it  by  looking  at  it,  we  extol  his  cross.  In  ex- 
change for  misery  and  discord  restore  the  first  tree  of  the  world. 
Show  this  now  to  the  world,  the  sign  of  the  only  God  on  high.  You, 
oh  Itzas,  reverence  all,  reverence  the  one  on  high,  reverence  with 
true  good-will  and  worship  him,  our  true  God.  Now,  oh  Father, 
receive  the  commandments  of  the  only  God  who  came  from  on 
high.  Invigorate  your  good-will,  oh  Itzas,  the  earth  is  enlightened. 
The  spirit  enters  in  another  Katun.  Believe  my  message.  I  am 
Chilam  Balam.  I  interpreted  the  commandments  of  the  true 
God  among  all  the  places  of  the  earth.  I  go  to  all  parts  of  the 
country. 

Lizana  Translation 

"La  interpretacion  es  esta  muy  a  la  letra  y  sentido." 
"En  el  fin  de  la  decima  tercia  edad  estando  en  su  pujanza  Ytza 
y  (la  ciudad  nombrada)  Tancah,  (que  esta  entre  Yacman  y  Ticha- 
quillo,  que  oy  se  llama  Ychpaa,  que  es  fortaleza  o  castillo)  vendra 
la  senal  de  Dios  que  esta  en  las  alturas,  y  la  Cruz  se  manifestara 
ya  al  mundo  con  la  qual  el  orbe  fue  alumbrado,  avra  division  entre 
las  voluntades  quando  esta  serial  sea  tray  da  en  tiempo  venidero, 


130  MAYA  TEXTS 

los  hombres  Sacerdotes  antes  de  llegar  una  legua,  y  aunque  un 
quarto  de  legua  no  mas  vereis  la  Cruz  que  se  os  aparecera  y  os 
amanecera  de  Polo  a  Polo,  cessara  luego  el  culto  de  vanos  dioses  ya 
vuestro  padre  viene  o  Ytzalanos,  o  Tantunites  ya  viene  un  her- 
mano,recibid  a  vuestros  guespedes,  guespedes  barbados  del  Oriente 
que  vienen  a  traer  la  serial  de  Dios,  Dios  es  que  nos  viene  manso  y 
poderoso,  ya  viene  la  nueva  de  nuestra  vida.  No  teneis  que  temer 
del  mundo  tu  eres  Dios  unico  que  nos  criaste,  eres  Dios  amigable 
y  piadoso,  ea  ensalcemos  su  sefial  en  alto  ensalcemosla  para  adorarla 
y  verla,  la  Cruz  emos  de  ensalcar  en  oposicion  de  la  mentira  se 
aparece  oy  en  contra  del  arbol  primero  del  mundo,  oy  es  hecha  al 
mundo  demonstracion,  sefial  es  esta  de  un  Dios  de  las  alturas,  esta 
adorad  o  gente  Ytzalana,  adoremosla  con  voluntad  recta  adoremos 
al  que  es  Dios  nuestro  y  verdadero  Dios,  recibid  la  palabra  de  Dios 
verdadero  que  del  cielo  viene  el  que  os  habla  cobrad  juizio  y  ser  los 
de  Ytza  los  que  creyeren  seran  alumbrados  en  la  edad  que  esta  por 
venir  mirad  si  os  importa  lo  que  os  digo  y  advierto,  y  encargo  yo 
vuestro  interprete  y  maestro  de  credito  Balam  por  nombre.1  Y 
con  esto  dixe  lo  que  Dios  verdadero  me  mando,  porque  dello  sea  el 
mundo  sebedor." 

5.     CHILAM  BALAM  DE  CHUMAYEL 
Passage,  p.  77,  78 

This  text  is  to  be  found  in  the  original  document  (Gordon,  1913) 
on  p.  77, 78.  The  translations  printed  here  are  to  be  found  in  Brinton 
(1882,  p.  180,  181)  and  in  Martinez  Hernandez  (1910).  This  pas- 
sage is  given  to  show  the  differences  in  the  two  translations  of  the 
same  text.  The  original  is  obviously  incorrect  in  several  places,  in 
one  of  which  Brinton  changes  it  to  read  in  one  way  and  Martinez 
to  read  in  another.  A  second  point  should  be  noted,  the  difference 
in  the  translation  of  proper  names.  Martinez  makes  a  proper 
name  of  words  which  are  translated  by  Brinton.  This  text,  there- 
fore, illustrates  some  of  the  difficulties  met  with  in  rendering  the 
ancient  Maya  into  English.  For  purposes  of  verification  I  have 
added  the  Spanish  translation  of  Martinez. 

1  From  here  to  the  end,  the  translation  of  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1883,  p.  532) 
reads  as  follows:  "  Y  con  esto  he  acabado  de  decir  lo  que  el  Dios  verdadero  me 
mando  para  que  lo  oiga  el  mundo." 


CHILAM  BALAM  DE  CHUMAYEL 


131 


Kan    Ahau  u-qaba  Qatun  ut§-ki       u-sih-il-ob 

Brinton:     (The)  4th  Ahau    (was)  the  name  (of)  the  Katun  took  place  the 

births 
Martinez :  Four  Ahau  is  called  the  Katun  in  which     were  born 


pawaha  * 
Brin. :         were  taken  possession 
Mar. :  the  Pawah 


en2 

of 
they 


Brin. 
Mar. 


os-(la)-hunte 
(It  was)  the  13th 
13  periods  of  the 


ti 


Qatun 

Katun 
Katun 


kuh 

the  towns 
began 

lik 

in  which 
thus 


u-y-ahau-ob : 
by  the  rulers: 
the  rulers  of  the  years: 


u-tepal-ob 
they  ruled 


lai 

these 
thus 


u-qaba-ob 
Brin. :  (were)  their  names 
Mar. :  they  were  called 


tamuq    u-tepal-ob  lae. 
while     they  ruled, 
in  the  course  of  time. 


Kan  ahau   u-qaba  Qatun  em-ki-ob 

Brin. :  (The)  4th  Ahau  (was)  the  name  (of)  the  Katun  in  it  they  arrived 
Mar. :   (The)  4th  Ahau  (was)  called         the  Katun         in  which  they  arrived 


Brin. 
Mar. 


Brin. 
Mar. 


Brin. 
Mar. 


Brin. 
Mar. 


noh-he-mal 

the  great  arrival 
the  great  descent, 

Os  la  hunte 

(It  was)  the  13th 
13  periods  of  the 


o'ee-mal 

the  less  arrival 
the  small  descent, 


u  qaba-ob  lae. 

as  they  are  called, 
they  were  called  thus. 


Qatun       lik  u-tepal-ob    lik  u- 

Katun       in  which       they  ruled    in  which 
Katun       thus  elapsed  thus 


qaba-tik-ob  tii 

they  took  names  at  that  time 
they  were  called  at  that  time 

kuthi 

the  residence  was  continued 
lasted 


walak  u-kut-ob 

while   they  resided 
they  took  root 

u-kut-ob  lae. 
they  resided  here, 
their  permanency. 


Kan  Ahau     u-Qatun-il    uts-ki 

Brin. :  (The)  4th     Ahau     Katun  (then)  took  place 

Mar. :  In  the  4th    Ahau     Katun  it  happened 


lae  4  oslahun 
here  in  the  13th 
13  periods 


u-kasan-tik-ob 

the  search 
that  they  found 


1  Brinton  writes  this  pats-ah  u  kah. 

2  Martinez  changes  this  to  em-kuts. 

3  In  several  places  Martinez  has  translated  tepalob  in  two  ways.  In  the 
translation  line  by  line  he  translates  the  word  as  gobernaron  whereas  in  his 
version  given  as  a  whole  he  translates  it  as  transcurrieron.  In  his  line  by  line 
translation  this  sentence  reads,  Trece  periodos  del  katun,  asi  gobernaron;  asi  se 
llamaron  mientras  gobernaron.  The  Martinez  translation  given  here  follows 
that  given  by  him  on  p.  35-38  (1910). 

4  This  word  is  crossed  out  in  the  original  MS. 


132 


MAYA  TEXTS 


u-Chich'een  Itzae. 
Brin. :  for  Chichen  Itza. 
Mar.:  Chichen        Itza. 


Tii  uo-kinnabi  makoil-ti-ob 

At  that  time  they  were  improved    marvelously 
There  was  modified  their  religion 


tumen 
Brin.:  by 
Mar.:  by 


u-yum-oobe : 

the  fathers : 
their  Lords : 


kan  ouk 

in  four  divisions 

four  tribes 


kan-oukul-kab 
Brin. :  the  four  territories 
Mar.:  Cantsuculcabes 


u  qaba-ob. 

which  were  called, 
called. 


Liqul 
From 
From 


luq-ki-ob 

they  went  forth 
set  out 

ti  liqin 
the  east  of 
the  east  side 


Qin-kolah-peten      bini  hun    ouki. 

Brin. :  Kin  Cola  Peten        came  forth      one     division. 
Mar. :  to  Kin  Cola  Peten   went  one     tribe. 


Kul  saman 

From  the  north  of 

To  the  sacred  north 


nakok-ob 
Brin.:  Nacocob 
Mar.:  ascending 


hoq 

came  forth 
set  out 


hun 

one 
one 


ouk[k]i. 

division. 

tribe. 


He  i§  hoqi  hun 

Brin. :  Came  forth  one 

Mar. :  This  other  set  out  one 


ouki-e      hol-tun  Suyuua 

division   (from  the)  gate  of  Zuyuua 

tribe         (from  the)  entrance  of    Zuyuah 


ti  t§iqin.  Hoqi  hun    ou[k]ki-e     kan  heq 

Brin. :  to  the  west.      Came  forth     one     division       from  Can  hek 
Mar. :  to  the  west.      Went  one    tribe  to  the  place  ot  the  tour 

ub,  bolonte  uio  u-qaba  u-luumil  lae. 

Brin. :  the  mountains,  the  nine  mountains  (as)  is  called   the  land. 

Mar.:  hills,  that  of  the  nine  hills  was  called       their  land. 

u-payal-ob 

the  calling  together 
that  they  were  called 

tu  kan-ouk-[k]il-ob    kan-ouk-kul-kab    u-qaba-ob.  [Ka 

Brin. :  of  the  four  divisions,  the  four  territories  as  they  were  called. 
Mar. :  the  Cantsuciles  the  Cantsuculcabes  called.  When 


Kan 

Ahau 

u-Qatun-il 

ut§-ki 

Brin.:  (The)  4th 

Ahau 

Katun 

then  took  place 

Mar.:  (The)  4th 

Ahau 

Katun 

it  happened 

emi-ob  ti 


yum-tal-ob.]1 


Brin.: 

Mar. :  they  arrived  there  (they  were  received)        as  Lords. 

Ka       emi-ob  tu  Chich'een  Itzae,    ah  Itza       tun  u-qaba-ob. 

Brin.:  And     they  arrived  at  Chichen  Itza,    men  of  Itza   they  were  called. 
Mar. :  When  they  arrived  at  Chichen  Itza,     the  Itzas       they  were  called. 


1  The  words  within  the  braces  are  omitted  in  the  Berendt  copy  of  the  MS. 
which  was  used  by  Brinton. 


CHILAM  BALAM  DE  CHUMAYEL 


133 


Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 


Brin. 
Mar. 


Brin. 
Mar. 

Brin. 
Mar. 


Oslahunte  ti  Qatun     lik  u-tepal-ob-i         ka 

[It  was  the]  13th  Katun     in  which      they  ruled  then 

Thirteen  periods  of  the      Katun     thus  elapsed  and 


oki 

were  introduced 
took  place 

pa§i  (pa§-ki) 
were  destroyed 
was  abandoned 


u-qeban-t'an-ob-i 

the  plottings 
the  treachery 


tumen     Hun  nak  keeli      ka 
by  Hunnac  Ceel         and 

of  Hunac  Ceel  and 


u-kab-ob. 

the  territories, 
their  towns. 


yol-t§e  tan 

the  forests    in  the  midst  of 

forest  to  a  place 

u-Qatun-il  uts-ki 

Katun         (then)  took  place 
Katun         took  place 


Ka  bini-ob 

Then  they  went 
And  they  went 

Suluk-mul    u-qaba. 

Xuluc  mul    so  called. 
Xuluc  mul    called. 


tan 

in  the  midst  of 

to  the  wilderness 

Kan  Ahau 
(The)  4th  Ahau 
In  the  four  Ahau 


yawat        pisan-ob-i. 

singing      for  their  happiness, 
the  cries    of  the  blessed. 


Oslahunte  ti  Qatun     lik  u-tepal-ob-i        yetel 

(It  was  the)  13th  Katum    in  which    they  governed    and  (had) 

Thirteen  periods  of  the    Katum    thus  elapsed  with 


u-numya-ob-i. 
heavy  labor, 
their  exile. 

yulel-ob 
there  arrived 
arrived 


Wasak  Ahau  u-Qatun-il  ut§-ki 

The  8th  Ahau  Katun       thus  it  took  place  (that) 

In  the  eight    Ahau  Katun       thus  it  took  place 

yala-ob  ah  Itza  u-qaba-ob 

the  remainder    of  the  Itza  men  as  they  were  called; 
the  remainder    of  the  Itza  men      so  called 


ka 

then 

as  soon  as 


ul-ob 

they  arrived; 
they  arrived 


tii 

and 


ka  walak 

about  that  time 


Chakanputune. 

Chakanputun. 
at  Chakanputun. 

kah 

the  city  of 
the  pueblo  of 

Wasak 
(In  the)  8th 
(In  the)  eight 


Oslahun  Ahau 

In  the  13th        Ahau 
In  the  thirteen  Ahau 


u-Qatun-il 

Katun 

Katun 


u-tepal-ob 

they  governed 
they  took  root 

u-heo'-k-ob 

founded 
they  founded 


Mayapan 

Mayapan 
Mayapan 

Ahau 
Ahau 
Ahau 


Maya 
the  Maya 
Maya 


winik 


men 
men 


u-qaba-ob. 

those  called, 
they  were  called. 


pas-ki 

were  destroyed 

were  abandoned 


u-cab-ob-i      ka 
the  towns       then 
the  towns       and 


wektsabi l 

they  were  driven  out 

they  disappeared 


ti  peten 

of  the  province 
from  the  region 


tulakal.    Wak  Qatun-i 

wholly.    (In  the)  6th   Katun 
whole.      (In  the)  six    Katun 


The  original  text  has  wek  tsa  hi.     Brinton  has  wak  t§a  bi. 


134  MAYA  TEXTS 

pas-ki-ob  ka    hawi  u  Maya        qaba-ob. 

Brin.:  they  were  destroyed  and   it  was  ended  with  Maya  those  called. 
Mar.:  they  were  dispersed  and      they  ceased    Maya  calling  themselves 

Buluk  Ahau       u-qaba      u-Qatun-il     hau-ki 

Brin.:  (It  was  the)  11th       Ahau  Katun.  in  which  it  ended 

Mar. :  In  the  eleven  Ahau  Katun  they  ceased 

u-Maya  qaba-ob.  Maya  winik-ob   Christiano 

Brin. :  with  Mayas      those  called.  The  Maya    men  Christians 

Mar. :  Maya  calling  themselves.      Maya  Indians     Christians 

u-qaba-ob  tulakal  u-kuts-kabal  ooma    San  Pedro 

Brin. :  were  called  all  came  under  control  of  Saint  Peter 

Mar. :  they  called  (now)  all  those  of  the  province,  sons     of  Saint  Peter 

yetel  Rey  ah-tepal-e. 

Brin.:  and  the  king       the  rulers. 
Mar. :  and  the  king       his  Majesty. 

Martinez  Translation 

"El  cuarto  ahau  se  denomina  el  katun  en  que  nacieron  los  Pauah. 
Comenzaron  los  regentes  de  los  arios.  Trece  periodos  del  katun; 
asi  transcurrieron ; 1  asi  fueron  designados  en  su  transcurso.  El 
cuarto  ahau  se  llama  el  katun  en  que  llegaron:  la  gran  bajada,  la 
pequefia  bajada,  asi  fueron  designadas.  Trece  periodos  del  katun; 
asi  transcurrieron;  asi  fueron  designados,  alii  se  radicaron;  trece 
periodos  duro  su  permanencia.  En  el  katun  cuarto  ahau  sucedio 
que  hallaron  Chichen  Itza.  Alii  fue  compuesto  lo  divino  en  ellos 
por  sus  sen  ores.  Cuatro  tribus  salieron  llamadas  'cantzuculcabes.' 
La  tribu  de  lado  oriente  se  dirigio  a  Kin-colah-peten.  Al  sagrado 
norte,  ascendiendo,  salio  una  tribu.  Esta  otra  tribu  salio  de  la 
entrada  de  Zuyuah  al  poniente.  Una  tribu  salio  hacia  el  lugar  de 
los  cuatro  cerros.  La  de  los  nueve  cerros  se  llama  la  tierra  de  ellos. 
En  el  katun  cuarto  ahau  sucedio  que  fueron  llamados  los  cantzuciles, 
apellidados  cantzuculcabes.  Cuando  llegaron  fueron  aceptados  como 
senores  de  la  tierra.  Cuando  llegaron  a  Chichen  Itza,  se  llamaron 
Itzaes.  Trece  periodos  del  katun,  asi  transcurrieron  y  tuvo  lugar 
la  traicion  de  Hunac-Ceel.  Y  fueron  abandonados  sus  pueblos,  y 
fueron  a  los  bosques  desiertos  a  un  lugar  llamado  Xuluc-mul.    En 

1  It  has  already  been  noted  that  the  translation  given  by  Martinez  when 
he  is  translating  line  by  line  differs  in  several  places  from  the  translation  he 
gives  as  a  whole.     The  latter  is  more  free  in  several  places. 


CHILAM  BALAM  DE  CHUMAYEL  135 

el  kaiun  cuarto  ahau  tuvo  lugar  el  llanto  de  los  bienventurados. 
Trece  periodos  del  katun  transcurrieron,  inclusive  el  periodo  de  sus 
padecimientos.  En  el  katun  octavo  ahau  llegaron  los  llamados 
restos  de  los  Itza:  luego  que  llegaron  se  radicaron  en  Chakanputun. 
En  el  katun  trece  ahau  fundaron  el  pueblo  de  Mayapan;  se  llama- 
ron  mayas.  En  el  octavo  ahau  fueron  abandonadas  las  poblaciones 
y  se  esparcieron  por  toda  la  region.  En  el  sexto  katun  fueron  dis- 
persos  y  dejaron  de  llamarse  mayas.  En  el  katun  once  ahau  cesaron 
de  llamarse  mayas.  Indios  mayas  cristianos  se  llaman  hoy  todos 
los  de  la  provincia,  hijos  de  San  Pedro  y  de  S.  M.,  el  Rey  de 
Espafia." 


PART  III 

AN  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 
RELATING  TO  THE  MAYA  LANGUAGE 


PART  III 

AN  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 
RELATING  TO  THE  MAYA  LANGUAGE 

INTRODUCTION 

In  the  Bibliography  (Part  IV)  there  are  listed  over  700  different 
works,  not  including  second  editions,  on  or  in  the  Maya  language 
or  referring  to  it  in  some  way.  It  should  be  understood  that  the 
language  in  question  is  that  dialect  spoken  in  the  peninsula  of 
Yucatan  and  not  the  Maya  linguistic  stock  which  covers  a  far 
more  extended  area. 

The  large  number  of  books  and  manuscripts  dating  from  the 
earliest  days  of  the  Conquest  and  continuing  down  to  the  present 
time  indicates  the  interest  taken  in  this  field. 

This  Appraisement  of  the  works  mentioned  in  the  Bibliography, 
it  is  hoped,  will  serve  as  an  aid  to  those  wrho  desire  some  idea  of 
the  relative  value  of  the  works  listed  under  the  various  headings. 

HISTORY  OF  MAYA  LINGUISTIC  RESEARCH 

Writers  of  the  xvi,  xvii,  xviii  Centuries.  The  history  of 
early  research  in  the  Maya  language  centers  around  the  names  of 
nearly  all  the  authors  of  the  Church  who  were  in  Yucatan  in  the 
xvi,  xvii,  and  xviii  centuries.  According  to  instructions  from  the 
Holy  See  each  priest  was  to  learn  the  language  of  the  country  and 
was  to  teach  and  to  preach  to  the  natives  in  their  own  languages.1 
The  priests  saw  at  once  that  a  phonetic  transcription  of  the  lan- 
guages was  necessary.  They  accomplished  this  with  no  small  suc- 
cess so  that  books  are  found  written  in  the  native  languages  but 
with  Spanish  characters  soon  after  the  appearance  of  the  first 
white  men.    In  fact,  the  first  books  printed  in  America  were  trans- 

1  See  Gomez  de  Parada,  1722.  The  titles  of  all  books  referred  to  by  author 
and  date  are  given  in  full  in  Part  iv. 

139 


140  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

lations  of  the  Catechism  and  sermons  in  the  Nahuatl  language  of 
Mexico. 

Landa  (1864,  p.  94),  the  second  Bishop  of  Yucatan,1  writing  be- 
tween 1561  and  1566,  states  that  priests  were  sent  to  Yucatan  from 
Guatemala  and  from  Mexico  and  that  they  established  themselves 
at  Campeche,  founded  in  1541,  and  at  Merida,  founded  one  year 
later,  under  the  protection  of  the  Adelantado  and  of  his  son,  both 
called  Francisco  de  Montejo.  A  monastery  was  built  at  Merida 
and  the  priests  occupied  themselves  with  learning  the  Maya 
language  which  was  difficult.  Juan  de  Herrera  was  probably  the 
first  teacher  of  Maya  written  in  the  Spanish  characters.2 

Villalpando  is  the  first  Maya  scholar  as  well  as  the  first  author 
of  works  in  Maya.  Landa  writes  "El  que  mas  supo  fue  fray  Luis  de 
Villalpando  que  comengo  a  saberla  por  senas  y  pedrezuelas  y  la  reduxo 
a  alguna  manera  de  arte  y  escrivio  una  doctrina  Christiana  de  aquella 
lengua."  3 

Starting  with  Villalpando,  "el  proto-lingilista  Maya"  4  there  is  a 
constant  succession  of  priests,  both  Spanish  and  native  born,  who 

1  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1892-95,  p.  318)  writes  in  this  connection,  "El  Illmo 
Sr.  Landa  es  en  realidad  el  quinto  Obispo  de  Yucatan,  y  si  suele  contdrse  le 
como  segundo,  es  solo  con  respecto  a  la  segunda  epoca  de  la  historia  de  esta 
Diocesis." 

2  Cogolludo  C1688,  lib.  v,  cap.  v)  writes  in  this  connection,  "  Fray  Iuan  de 
Herrera,  aunque  Lego,  era  muy  habil,  sabia  escribir  bien,  cantor  canto  llano,  y 
organo,  y  aprendiendo  la  lengua,  se  ocupaba  en  ensenar  la  Doctrina  Cristiana  a  los 
Indios,  y  en  especial  a  los  ninos.  Para  poder  mejor  lograr  su  deseo  en  estos  exer- 
cicios,  puso  forma  de  Escuela,  donde  acudian  todos  los  muchachos,  dandolos  sus 
padres  con  mucho  gusto  y  uoluntad,  aprehendian  las  Oraciones,  y  a  muchos  ensenb 
a  leer,  escribir,  y  cantar." 

3  Garcia  Cubas  (1888-91,  v.  1,  p.  xv)  speaks  of  Villalpando  in  the  following 
words:  "En  1546  llegaron  directamente  de  Espana  a  la  peninsula  algunos  religi- 
osas  franciscanos  con  el  P.  Fr.  Luis  de  Villalpando,  a  fin  de  afianzar  la  conquista 
por  medio  de  la  persuasiva  y  pacifica  predicacion  evangelica." 

Lizana  (1633,  ed.  1893,  p.  47  ob.)  writes  in  describing  Villalpando,  "A  lo  qual 
le  ayudaban  con  gran  cuidado  sus  companeros  Fray  Melchor  de  Benavente,  y  Fray 
Angel  Maldonado,  que  eran  Sacerdotes,  y  Fray  Juan  de  Herrera  Lego  de  la  Pro- 
vincia  de  los  Angeles  ensenaba  la  doctrina  Christiana  a  los  Indios,  y  en  particular 
a  los  ninos,  poniendoles  escuela,  y  ensenandoles  a  leer,  escribir,  y  cantar  canto 
llano,  y  organo,  que  todo  esto  sabia  el  santo  baron  Lego,  Fr.  Juan,  aunque  su 
estado  era  de  Lego,  y  con  tan  santos,  y  solic'ios  trabajadores,  etc." 

4  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  148)  writes,  "  Villalpando,  pues,  debia 
ser  y  fue  en  realidad,  como  vamos  a  ver,  el  proto-linguista  maya,  esto  es,  el  que 


HISTORY  OF  MAYA  LINGUISTIC  RESEARCH  141 

devoted  themselves  to  the  study  of  the  Maya  language,  writing 
grammars,  collecting  vocabularies,  and  translating  the  Doctrina 
into  Maya  in  addition  to  writing  sermons  in  the  native  language.1 

After  Villalpando  the  first  author  of  importance  is  Bishop  Diego 
de  Landa  whose  work  entitled  Relation  de  las  cosas  de  Yucatan, 
written  between  1561  and  1566,  has  contributed  more  to  Maya 
research  than  any  other  single  book.  From  this  a  start  was  made 
in  deciphering  the  Maya  hieroglyphic  writing.  Little  is  known 
regarding  the  linguistic  work  of  Landa.  He  was  probably  the  first 
to  open  a  school  for  teaching  Maya  to  the  priests  in  the  Monaster 
of  San  Antonio  at  Izamal.  Cogolludo  (1688,  lib.  v,  cap.  xiv)  writes 
"El  que  mas  presto,  y  con  mayor  perfection  la  supo,fue  el  bendito 
Padre  Fr.  Diego  de  Landa,  de  quien  se  dize  (no  sin  admiration)  que 
a  pocos  dias  la  hablada,  y  predicaba,  como  si  fuera  su  lengua  nativa.11 

Solana,  who  was  in  Yucatan  from  1560  to  his  death  in  1600,  is 
the  author  of  the  first  dictionary  (1580)  which  has  come  down  to 
us.  Ciudad  Real,  who  died  in  1617,  is  famous  for  his  Gran  Calepino 
in  six  volumes  on  which  he  was  at  work  for  40  years. 

Gaspar  Antonio  Xiu,  Sanchez  de  Aguilar  and  Carlos  Mena  are 
some  of  the  natives  of  Yucatan  who  are  authors  of  works  in  the 
Maya  language.2 

aparece  el  primer o  al  f rente  de  los  que  estudian  el  idioma  yucateco,  y  al  j rente  del 
catdlogo  de  los  escritores  que  cuenta  la  civilization  en  este  mismo  idioma." 

Torquemada,  cited  by  Cogolludo  (1688,  lib.  vi.,  cap.  xii)  writes  "Quepor 
ser  (el  P.  Villalpando)  el  primero  que  supo  la  lengua  destos  naturales,  y  que 
la  predicb  con  exemplo  de  essential  Religioso,  es  digno  de  eterna  memorial 

The  importance  of  Villalpando  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  he  is  the  only 
author  on  Maya  mentioned  by  Sobron  (1875). 

1  For  excellent  accounts  of  these  authorities  and  their  work,  see  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872). 

2  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  167-168)  gives  an  interesting  ac- 
count of  another  author  of  about  this  time.  He  writes,  "El  celebre  Fr.  Ber- 
nardino de  Valladolid  .  .  .  vino  d  Yucatan  siendo  aun  mas  joven,  por  el  ano  de 
1634,  y  su  aficion  al  estudio  de  la  lengua  maya  era  como  un  delirio,  una  verdadera 
pasion.  Alia  por  los  anos  de  1641  6  1642,  se  celebraron  unas  funciones  literarias 
6  ados  en  el  convento  mayor  de  San  Francisco  de  esta  ciudad  de  Merida,  pues 
siguiendo  el  uso  laudable  de  las  universidades  y  colegios  de  Europa,  ya  de  algunos 
anos  atras  acostumbraba  celebrarse  aquellas  funciones  en  Yucatan  en  las  cdtedras 
de  los  PP.  franciscanos.  Por  aquella  ocasion,  pues,  Fr.  Bernardino,  ya  tan  dis- 
tinguido  y  profundo  escolar,  como  perfecto  gramdtico  y  orador  del  idioma  indigena 
de  su  nueva  patria,  con  anuentia  del  superior  de  la  orden,  el  R.  P.  Fr.  Antonio 
Ramirez;   y  del  profesor  de  lengua  yucateca,  el  P.  Fr.  Diego  Perez,  de  Merida, 


142  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Padres  Coronel,  San  Buenaventura  and  Beltran  de  Santa  Rosa 
should  be  mentioned  for  their  excellent  work  on  the  Maya  gram- 
mar.1 Notice  should  also  be  made  of  the  unknown  authors  of  the 
Motul  and  San  Francisco  dictionaries.  The  work  of  this  early 
time  has  hardly  been  equalled  either  in  quantity  or,  in  some  re- 
spects, we  may  add,  in  quality. 

One  other  writer  of  these  early  centuries  deserves  special  men- 
tion, Andres  de  Avendafio.  He  is  the  author  of  a  most  important 
Relation  (1696)  which  is  fortunately  extant.  The  list  of  his  linguis- 
tic works  is  a  long  one.  These  have  all  disappeared.  I  pass  over 
the  names  of  many  others  of  the  early  writers  on  Maya  subjects 
whose  works  are  listed  in  the  Bibliography.  Mention  is  made 
of  these  early  efforts  under  the  discussion  of  the  Maya  grammars, 
vocabularies,  sermons,  the  Catechism,  etc.  A  glance  at  the  list  of 
works  which  are  now  known  only  by  name  (p.  151)  shows  the 
fertility  of  Maya  research  in  the  xvi,  xvn,  and  xvm  centuries. 

There  follows  a  note  on  the  most  important  modern  authors  in 
the  field  of  Maya  linguistics  with  a  short  account  of  their  work.  A 
detailed  list  of  their  manuscripts  and  books  will  be  found  in  the 
Bibliography. 

Padre  Joaquin  Ruz.  He  was  born  in  Merida  in  1785  and  died 
in  1855.  He  was  the  first  modern  author  of  works  on  Maya.  He 
was  a  Franciscan  and  the  most  fertile  writer  on  Maya  subjects. 

concibio  y  ejecuto  el  pensamiento  feliz  de  sostener  un  acto  literario  en  lengua  maya, 
realzando  asi  el  grande  merito  que  en  ella  con  su  continuo  estudio  habia  encontrado. 
Ademas,  al  par  de  las  tesis  literario-teologicas  que  sostuvo  el  celebre  actuante,  puso 
una  muy  notable  para  la  filologia,  reducida  d  proponer:  que  el  languaje  6  texto 
biblico  podia  vertirse  en  toda  su  exactitud  caracteristica  al  idioma  maya,  de  modo 
que  los  lugares  dificiles  de  las  Sagradas  Escrituras  podian  declararse  a  la  letra  en 
esta  lengua. 

Al  principiar  una  funcion  tan  extraordinaria  y  notable  como  esta,  y  d  que  en 
pos  de  los  hombres  de  letras  fue  atraida  una  gran  multitud,  asi  por  la  singularidad 
del  caso,  como  por  la  facilidad  de  su  inteligencia,  pues  el  idioma  maya  es  vulgar 
entie  todas  las  clases  sociales  del  pais,  Fr.  Bernardino  se  presenta  con  las  enter eza 
y  la  modestia  de  un  verdadero  sabio}  y  pronuncia  un  discurso  brillante  y  solido 
(i  Idstima  que  no  se  hubiese  conservado !)  original,  lleno  de  propiedad  y  belleza,  en 
idioma  yucateco. 

Las  replicas,  las  soluciones,  la  conferencia  toda,  fue  en  el  mismo  idioma,  que- 
dando  todos  los  concurrentes  llenos  de  complacencia  y  admiracion." 

1  The  relative  merit  of  their  works  has  been  discussed  exhaustively  in  Part  I 
(p.  9). 


HISTORY  OF  MAYA  LINGUISTIC  RESEARCH  143 

Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  172-179)  and  Sosa  (1884,  p. 
942-948)  give  short  accounts  of  his  life.  The  former,  quoted  also  by 
Sosa  (p.  944),  most  truthfully  expresses  the  number  of  the  works 
by  Ruz  when  he  writes,  "Ninguno  de  los  escritores  de  la  lengua  may  a 
se  presenta  con  tan  considerable  numero  de  volumenes,  debidos  a  su 
incansable  y  sdbia  pluma,  como  el  R.  P.  Fr.  Joaquin  Ruz,  que  hizo 
verdaderamente  sudar  la  prensa  con  la  edicion  de  sus  obras  en  el 
primer  tercio  del  siglo  actual,  y  precisamente  cuando  era  para  el  pais 
una  cosa  rara  la  publicacion  de  un  libro." 

The  writings  of  Ruz  are  of  little  value  from  the  standpoint  of 
the  study  of  Maya  linguistics.  He  did  his  best  to  revise  the 
language  so  that  it  conformed  as  far  as  possible  with  Latin  stand- 
ards. Brinton  (1900,  p.  212)  writes  in  this  connection,  "His  style 
has  however  been  severely  criticized  by  almost  all  competent 
scholars  as  impressing  on  the  native  language  grammatical  forms, 
terms  of  expression,  and  compounds,  foreign  to  its  history  and 
character.  Ruz  was  well  aware  he  was  making  these  innovations, 
but  claimed  they  were  called  for  to  elevate  and  develop  the  powers 
of  the  Maya." 

Juan  Pio  Perez.  He  was  born  in  Merida  in  1798  and  died  in 
1859.  He  was  the  first  modern  Maya  scholar.  Carrillo  y  Ancona 
(1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  140-145,  179-186),  Carrillo  Suaste  (1875), 
Ancona  (1877),  Sosa  (1884,  p.  803-806),  and  Martinez  Alomia 
(1906,  p.  142-146)  are  among  those  giving  his  biography.  Berendt 
(1871a)  describes  his  work  in  great  detail.  He  was  selected  as  the 
Maya  interpreter  to  the  Secretary  of  State  at  Merida.  The  suc- 
cessful fulfillment  of  the  duties  of  this  office  shows  his  ability  to  use 
the  Maya  language  and  the  position  gave  him  access  to  much  Maya 
material.  Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  117)  writes,  "I  had  been  advised 
that  this  gentleman  (Perez)  was  the  best  Maya  scholar  in  Yucatan, 
and  that  he  was  distinguished  in  the  same  degree  for  the  investi- 
gation and  study  of  all  matters  tending  to  elucidate  the  history 
of  the  ancient  Indians.  His  attention  was  turned  in  this  direction 
by  the  circumstance  of  holding  an  office  in  the  department  of 
state,  in  which  old  documents  in  the  Maya  language  were  con- 
stantly passing  under  his  eyes.  Fortunately  for  the  interests  of 
science  and  his  own  studious  tastes,  on  account  of  some  political 
disgust  he  withdrew  from  public  life,  and,  during  two  years  of 


144  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

retirement,  devoted  himself  to  the  study  of  the  ancient  chronology 
of  Yucatan." 

Perez  realized  the  importance  of  preserving  material  on  the 
Maya  language  which  was  fast  disappearing.  He  made  a  collection 
of  original  documents  in  Maya  and  copies  of  various  manuscripts 
which  he  did  not  personally  possess.  This  collection  was  copied 
in  great  part  by  Berendt  and  these  copies  furnished  the  foundation 
for  the  Berendt  Collection.  The  importance  of  the  Books  of 
Chilam  Balam  was  very  early  recognized  by  Perez.  The  most 
important  parts  of  his  collection  were  included  in  a  volume  en- 
titled " Chilam  Balam"  (Berendt,  1868,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  49) l  and 
another  called  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  "Codice  Perez"  (Perez,  2, 
copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50)  .2  The  contents  of  this  volume  are  treated 
fully  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  140-145). 

There  is  another  document  more  properly  called  the  "  Codex 
Perez  "  (Perez,  1842).  This  is  the  famous  manuscript  given  by 
Perez  to  Stephens  which  formed  a  part  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de 

1  The  letters  B.  L.  C.  refer  to  the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection  in  the  library 
of  the  University  Museum,  Philadelphia.  The  number  refers  to  the  entry  in 
Brinton's  Catalogue  of  this  collection.    See  Brinton,  1900. 

2  This  Codice  Perez  has  the  following  Advertencia,  written  by  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  and  republished  by  him  in  his  1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  140-141:  "Estas 
apuntaciones  son  del  Sr.  D.  Juan  Pio  Perez.  Las  tomaba  6  extractaba  de  los 
manuscritos  que  solia  hollar  en  poder  de  los  indios,  y  el  fin  principal  que  con  ellas 
se  proponia  era  hacer  un  caudal  suficiente  de  noticias  para  escribir  sobre  el  Calen- 
dario  yucateco.  Es,  pues,  muy  preciosa  esta  coleccion,  pues  no  solo  revela  mucho 
de  lo  que  puede  apetecerse  sobre  el  computo  del  tiempo,  usado  por  los  antiguos 
yucatecos,  sino  que  servird  tambien  para  testificar  la  existencia  de  muchas  obras 
manuscritas  de  autores  indios,  que  se  han  ido  perdiendo;  pero  cuya  memoria 
conservaremos  en  conjunto  en  este  volumen,  ddndole  el  nombre  general  de  'Codice 
Perez,'  para  perpetuar  tambien  asi  el  nombre  del  ilustre  yucateco  moderno  a  quien 
se  lo  debemos.  El  '  Codice  Perez '  sera,  pues,  siempre  un  importante  monumento 
bibliogrdfico,  de  gran  trascendencia  para  la  historia,  de  valor  inestimable  para  los 
yucatecos,  y,  por  gran  fortuna  nuestra,  una  de  los  mas  ricos  tesoros  de  nuestro 
gabinete  particular.  —  C.  C." 

Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  179)  writes:  "Debemos  a  la  pluma  del 
Sr.  Perez  las  siguientes  obras:  I.  'Opusculos  varios  6  notas  a  las  copias  y  traduc- 
ciones  del  yucateco  al  espanol,  y  del  espanol  al  yucateco,  observaciones  y  apunta- 
ciones sobre  diferentes  materias,  correspondientes  a  la  historia  y  lengua  de  Yucatan, 
esparcida  en  fragmentos  en  diferentes  manos  y  parses.  Mss.  ineditos.'  He  adds 
that  the  first  part  of  this  collection  is  the  Codex  Perez.  The  other  part  of  the 
collection  is  undoubtedly  contained  in  the  several  works  in  manuscript  re- 
corded in  the  Bibliography. 


HISTORY  OF  MAYA  LINGUISTIC  RESEARCH  145 

Mani,  and  is  described  at  length  in  another  place  (p.  184).  This 
manuscript  made  possible  the  first  attempts  to  synchronize  Maya 
and  Christian  chronology.  His  Cronologia  Antigua  (Perez,  1843) 
has  not  contributed  greatly  to  the  knowledge  of  the  hieroglyphic 
writing  as  he  made  a  grave  mistake  in  the  interpretation  of  the 
length  of  one  of  the  Maya  time  periods.  Two  printed  dictionaries 
bear  his  name  in  addition  to  several  important  manuscripts  not 
already  mentioned,  copies  of  many  of  which  are  in  the  Berendt 
Linguistic  Collection. 

Fletcher,  Henderson,  Kingdon.  These  three  Protestant 
missionaries  were  in  British  Honduras  in  the  second  quarter  of  the 
last  century.  There  is  little  that  is  known  regarding  the  details 
of  their  linguistic  work  and  there  is,  as  a  consequence,  some  con- 
fusion regarding  the  authorship  of  certain  books.1  Richard  Fletcher 
was  a  Methodist  missionary  stationed  at  Corozal  and  he  wrote  a 
catechism  in  Maya  (1865a)  for  his  denomination  and  a  brief 
series  of  prayers  (1865).  The  Maya  language  used  by  these  three 
Protestant  missionaries  is  very  corrupt.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870; 
ed.  1872,  p.  191)  writes,  "Fletcher  se  ha  apropiado  no  mas  el  maya 
corrompido  de  hispanismo,  6  esa  habla  amestizada  que  usa  el  ultimo 
vulgo  del  pais,  y  que  no  sabemos  si  llamar  mejor  un  castellano  bdrbaro 
6  un  maya  tristemente  degenerado." 

Alexander  Henderson,  a  Baptist  missionary,  came  to  Belize  in 
1834.  John  Kingdon  came  to  Belize  in  1845  after  having  served 
for  thirteen  years  as  a  missionary  in  Jamaica.  There  was  con- 
stant trouble  between  these  two  workers,  Kingdon  being  the  more 
to  blame  if  one  is  to  believe  the  account  of  Crowe  (1850),  another 
missionary  in  this  field.  There  are  vague  notices  in  this  book  of 
the  linguistic  work  of  the  mission.  It  would  seem  as  if  Henderson 
devoted  most  of  his  time  during  the  first  years  in  this  field  to  work 
on  the  Mosquito  language.  Kingdon  (1847)  translated  the  gram- 
mar of  Ruz  and  it  was  he  who  seems  to  have  been  the  more  ener- 
getic in  translating  portions  of  the  scriptures  into  Maya.  Crowe 
(1850,  p.  493)  writes,  "Before  the  close  of  1849,  Mr.  Kingdon  had 
purchased  a  piece  of  plantation  land  on  the  banks  of  the  Old  River 

1  Pilling  (1885,  p.  258)  furnishes  an  interesting  letter  from  Carrillo  y  Ancona 
regarding  the  authorship  of  various  works  ascribed  to  Henderson  which  were 
really  written  by  Fletcher. 


146  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

.  .  .  and  thus  founded  his  fifth  missionary  station,  since  his  arrival 
four  years  before.  The  spot  chosen  was  about  twenty  miles  from 
Belize,  in  a  very  thinly-peopled  neighborhood,  where  his  studies 
and  labours  in  translating  Maya  would  be  but  little  interrupted." 
The  Baptists  abandoned  their  mission  in  British  Honduras  in 
1850.  Henderson  evidently  stayed  on  in  the  country  as  his  Maia 
Primer  was  published  in  1852  and  he  left  in  manuscript  six  vo- 
lumes of  a  dictionary  of  the  dialect  of  Maya  spoken  in  Bacalar 
(Henderson  1859-66). 

Brasseur  de  Bourbourg.  He  was  born  near  Dunkirk  in  1814 
and  died  in  1874.  He  should  be  remembered  not  for  what  he  wrote 
himself  but  for  the  manuscripts  which  he  published.  He  became 
interested  in  the  Maya  field  and  visited  Yucatan  in  1865.  Carrillo 
y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  193-195)  and  Martinez  Alomia  (1906, 
p.  172-175)  give  short  biographies.  Mitre  (1909-11,  v.  1,  p.  19-24) 
sums  up  his  work.  The  introduction  to  the  Bibliography  of  Bras- 
seur de  Bourbourg  (1871,  p.  vii-xlvii)  under  the  title  Coup  d'ceil  sur 
les  etudes  americaines  dans  leurs  rapports  avec  les  etudes  classiques 
serves  to  show  his  method  of  deductions  and  his  fantastic  theories. 

The  importance  of  the  work  of  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  from  the 
standpoint  of  Maya  studies  is  his  publication  of  the  Codex  Troano 
(1869-70)  and  his  finding  and  publishing  the  manuscript  of  Landa 
(1864).  In  addition  to  this  he  published  practically  the  whole  of 
the  grammar  of  San  Buenaventura  (1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  1-99).  His 
vocabularies  are  of  no  value  as  will  be  pointed  out  later.  Berendt 
(7,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  181,  fol.  62)  has  a  section  marked  " Brasseuriana- 
Troano-Landa "  which  contains  a  good  criticism  of  the  work  of 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg. 

Carl  Hermann  Berendt.  He  was  born  in  Danzig  in  1817  and 
died  in  Coban,  Guatemala,  in  1878.  He  was  undoubtedly  the 
greatest  scholar  of  the  Maya  language  although  the  list  of  his  actual 
publications  is  a  short  one.  His  biography  is  given  by  Brinton 
(1884-85:  1900,  p.  204,  note).  Berendt  came  to  New  York  in  1851. 
He  went  almost  immediately  to  Central  America  and,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  occasional  visits  to  the  United  States,  remained  in  Mex- 
ico and  Central  America  until  he  died  in  1878.  He  made  several 
visits  to  Yucatan,  copying  manuscripts  and  studying  the  language. 
He  visited  all  the  noted  libraries  of  Middle  America  collecting 


HISTORY  OF  MAYA  LINGUISTIC  RESEARCH  147 

material  on  the  Maya  language.  His  monument  is  the  Berendt 
Linguistic  Collection  of  manuscripts  and  books  in  the  library  of 
the  University  Museum  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Brinton 
(1900)  who  purchased  this  collection  and  presented  it  to  the  Mu- 
seum has  made  a  catalogue.  As  already  pointed  out,  the  founda- 
tion of  this  library  on  the  Maya  side  was  the  copies  made  by 
Berendt  of  the  Pio  Perez  collection  the  originals  of  which  have 
now  been  scattered.  Up  to  the  time  when  Mr.  Gates  began  his 
photographic  reproductions  every  student  of  Maya  linguistics  was 
absolutely  dependent  upon  this  Berendt  material. 

Berendt's  copy  of  the  Motul  dictionary  with  emendations,  addi- 
tions and  comparisons  with  other  vocabularies  is  a  monumental 
work  in  itself.  He  brought  together  for  the  firs.t  time  copies  of 
practically  everything  then  known  on  the  Maya  languages.  His 
Lengua  Maya  Miscelanea  (Berendt,  1868d,  3  v.  in  B.  L.  C.  Nos. 
42,  43,  44);  and  his  scrap  books  (Berendt,  5,  6,  7  in  B.  L.  C.  Nos. 
179,  180,  181)  contain  a  large  mass  of  important  material  on  the 
Maya  language.1 

Bishop  Crescencio  Carrillo  y  Ancona.  He  was  born  at 
Izamal,  Yucatan  in  1837  and  died  in  Merida  in  1897.  He  was  the 
friend  of  Pio  Perez  and  kept  alive  the  Perez  tradition  regarding  the 
importance  of  Maya  studies.  Carrillo  Suaste  (1875,  p.  xi-xx),  Sosa 
(1873:  1884,  p.  215),  Martinez  Alomia  (1906,  p.  237-244),  Rivero 
Figueroa  (1918),  and  Anon  1897a,  present  biographical  notes.  The 
most  complete  list  of  his  works  is  published  by  Rivero  Figueroa  and 
Canton  Rosado  (1918,  p.  65-78).  Carrillo  became  the  thirty-sixth 
bishop  of  Yucatan  in  1887.  His  interest  in  the  early  history  of  the 
country  was  great.  He  founded  the  archaeological  museum  at 
Merida  and  also  started  several  different  literary  periodicals.  His 
most  important  work  was  on  the  historical  rather  than  on  the  lin- 
guistic side.  Special  attention  should  be  called  to  his  Disertacion 
sobre  la  historia  de  la  lengua  Maya  6  Yucateca  (1870;  ed.  1872)  and 
to  his  main  work  on  the  history  of  the  bishops  of  Yucatan  (1892- 
1895).     He  was  the  editor  of  El  Repetorio  Pinforesco  (1863). 

1  Bowditch  (1908, 1908a)  and  Schuller  (1)  collated  several  of  the  manuscripts 
in  this  Berendt  Collection.  Gates  reproduced  the  Bowditch  notes  and  several 
of  those  taken  by  Schuller.  Various  unidentified  articles  should  be  noted 
(Berendt  9)  together  with  his  copies  of  various  documents  of  a  religious  nature 
(Berendt  1868a  in  B.  L.  C.  Nos.  46,  47). 


148  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Daniel  Garrison  Brinton.  He  was  born  at  Thornbury, 
Pennsylvania,  in  1837,  and  died  in  Philadelphia  in  1899.  He  was 
a  worthy  successor  to  Berendt.  His  field  of  activity  was  broader 
than  that  of  Berendt.  His  great  interest  in  Maya  studies  caused 
him  to  purchase  the  Berendt  Collection  and  later  he  presented  it 
to  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Biographical  notes  are  to  be 
found  in  Brinton  (19006),  Martinez  Alomia  (1906,  p.  245-249)  and 
in  several  transactions  of  scientific  societies  of  which  he  was  a  mem- 
ber. Brinton  (1898)  sums  up  his  work  on  American  languages. 
The  chief  work  of  Brinton  (1882)  on  Maya  linguistics  was  the 
publication  of  an  English  translation  of  the  chronological  parts  of 
several  of  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam,  copies  of  which  he  obtained 
in  the  Berendt  Collection.  It  is  worthy  of  note  that  this  work, 
although  written  almost  forty  years  ago,  still  remains  the  most  ex- 
tensive translation  from  the  Maya  ever  undertaken  at  one  time. 

William  Gates.  Mr.  Gates  of  Point  Loma,  California,  is  a 
Maya  scholar  to  whom  all  students  of  Maya  linguistics  owe  a  deep 
debt  of  gratitude.  An  indefatigable  energy,  great  acumen,  and  a 
knowledge  of  the  Middle  American  field  have  enabled  Mr.  Gates 
to  gather  together  the  largest  collection  of  documents  on  the  Maya 
linguistic  stock  ever  assembled  in  one  place.  Moreover,  not  being 
satisfied  to  possess  this  remarkable  collection  he  desired  copies  of 
all  available  documents  on  the  Maya  field  owned  by  libraries  and 
by  individuals.  With  only  a  few  exceptions  he  now  possesses  either 
the  original  manuscript  or  the  photographic  reproduction  of  all 
the  known  documents  on  the  Maya  stock,  as  well  as  many  others 
on  the  languages  of  Southern  and  Central  Mexico.  Furthermore, 
he  possesses  the  only  known  copies  of  several  printed  works  on  this 
field.  Mr.  Gates  has  made  duplicate  sets  of  many  of  his  photo- 
graphs and  he  has  allowed  Mr.  Charles  P.  Bowditch  to  purchase  a 
set  of  these.  Mr.  Bowditch  has  very  generously  presented  them 
to  the  Peabody  Museum.  The  Gates  Collection  stands,  therefore, 
in  the  first  place. 

His  photographic  reproductions  covering  the  field  included  in  the 
scope  of  the  present  work  are  mentioned  in  the  Bibliography.1    For 

1  It  should  be  noted  that  the  bibliographical  data  on  manuscripts  pho- 
tographed by  Gates  have  been  taken  in  general  from  the  reproductions  rather 
than  from  the  original  manuscripts  themselves.     Blank  pages  in  the  manu- 


HISTORY  OF  MAYA  LINGUISTIC  RESEARCH  149 

convenience  a  list  of  them  is  included  here.  First  place  should  be 
given  to  the  Motul  and  San  Francisco  dictionaries  without  which 
no  important  work  in  translation  can  be  done.  Anon  5  and  26 
are  also  vocabularies.  Next  come  the  unique  imprint  of  the  Coro- 
nel  grammar  (1620)  and  the  first  editions  of  the  grammars  of  San 
Buenaventura  (1684)  and  of  Beltran  (1746)  together  with  the 
grammars  of  Ruz  (1844)  and  Kingdon  (1847). 

Second  place  in  point  of  importance  should  be  given  to  the  re- 
productions of  the  originals  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Calkini,  Kaua, 
Nah,  Tekax,  and  Tizimin  and  of  copies  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de 
Calkini,  Chumayel,  Ixil,  Kaua,  and  Tizimin  together  with  the  copy 
of  the  Cronica  de  Chicxulub.  The  Bowditch  notes  on  Berendt  1868, 
the  Chicxulub,  the  Mani,  and  Oxkutzcab  manuscripts  with  the 
Prophecies,  and  the  Schuller  notes  on  Berendt  1868c  and  the  Mani 
manuscript  come  next.  The  various  medical  portions  of  the  Books 
of  Chilam  Balam  should  be  mentioned,  the  Judio  de  Sotuta  and 
Anon,  13,  14,  15,  16,  and  19  (Berendt  copy).  The  Ritual  of  the 
Bacabs  comes  here. 

The  Avendaiio  manuscript  stands  alone  in  importance.  The 
secular  manuscripts  are  as  follows:  Titulos  de  Ebtun,  Libro  de 
Cacalchen,  the  Pat  Letters,  Documentos  de  Ticul,  the  Xiu  Chroni- 
cles, Anon  2  and  Anon  8.  Finally  we  also  have  Gates  reproduc- 
tions of  the  following  religious  works :  —  the  Doctrinas  of  Coronel 
(1620a),  Beltran  (1740;  ed.  1816),  Ruz  (1822, 1849, 1851),  Fletcher 
(1865a),  Nolasco  de  los  Reyes,  and  Anon  (1803,  Berendt  copy,  7, 
20,  23),  together  with  the  sermons  of  Coronel  (16206),  Dominguez 
y  Argaiz,  Carvajal  (1,  Berendt  copy),  Acosta,  Vales,  Vela,  Ora- 
ciones  de  Teabo,  and  Anon  (21  and  22,  Berendt  copy). 

Juan  Martinez  Hernandez.  He  was  born  in  Merida  in  1866 
and  educated  at  Georgetown  University,  District  of  Columbia,  as 
a  lawyer.  He  is  a  descendant  of  the  Adelantado,  Don  Francisco  de 
Monte  jo.  He  has  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  Maya  language  as 
is  shown  by  the  list  of  his  published  and  unpublished  works  in  the 
Bibliography.  He  is  one  of  a  few  gentlemen  in  Merida  who  now 
interest  themselves  in  the  study  of  the  language  of  the  natives. 

scripts  have  not  generally  been  reproduced  so  that  there  may  be  differences 
in  certain  cases  in  the  number  of  pages  in  the  reproduction  and  in  the  manu- 
script itself. 


150  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 


BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


It  is  only  necessary  to  note  the  number  of  bibliographies  men- 
tioned in  the  following  pages  to  realize  the  great  interest  taken 
in  the  subject  of  American  languages  and,  more  especially,  the 
languages  of  Middle  America.  Little  attempt  has  been  made  to 
list  the  large  number  of  bibliographies  which  cover  the  general 
field  of  history  and  travel,  although  many  of  these  books  also  con- 
tain references  to  works  on  the  Maya  linguistic  stock.  No  bibliog- 
raphy is  included  here  which  does  not  contain  books  on  the  Maya 
language  of  Yucatan. 

Bibliography  of  Bibliographies.  The  best  list  of  the  bib- 
liographies of  Mexico  and  Central  America  is  that  contained  in 
Mitre  (1909-11,  v.  1,  p.  5-70).  He  discusses  at  some  length  most 
of  the  important  lists  of  books  from  this  region.  Vifiaza  (1892, 
p.  xix-xxv)  and  the  Bulletin  of  the  New  York  Public  Library 
(1909,  p.  622-624,  810-811)  also  give  very  good  lists  of  bibliogra- 
phies on  Middle  America.  Lejeal  (1902,  p.  5-7)  and  Lehmann 
(1907)  cover  the  same  ground  in  a  less  extensive  way. 

Missing  Authorities.  There  is  a  long  list  of  works  on  the 
Maya  language  references  to  which  are  made  in  the  early  histories 
but  many  of  these  books  or  manuscripts  have  disappeared  in  the 
course  of  time.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  some  of  these  missing 
authorities  will  be  found  just  as  the  long  lost  grammar  of  Coronel 
(1620)  turned  up  in  Mexico  in  1912. 

Landa  who  wrote  his  Relation  de  las  Cosas  de  Yucatan  (1864) 
sometime  between  1561  and  1566  mentions  Villalpando  and  his 
work.  No  books  of  this  author  have  survived.  Landa  himself 
wrote  a  grammar  and  possibly  a  Doctrina  which  are  lost.  Other 
references  occur  in  several  of  the  early  works  to  books,  copies  of 
which  are  now  unknown.  Leon  Pinelo  (1629)  and  Nicolas  Antonio 
(1672)  list  many  works  which  have  vanished.  Lizana  (1633)  and 
Cogolludo  (1688,  p.  439-440)  refer  in  their  histories  to  several 
writers  whose  manuscripts  have  disappeared.  Cogolludo  is  es- 
pecially full  on  this  point.  Clavigero  (1780-81)  also  gives  a  short 
bibliography  several  entries  of  which  are  unknown  at  the  present 
time.  Later  notices  of  missing  authorities  are  usually  taken  from 
the  lists  already  mentioned.    These  lost  works  are  given  more  or 


BIBLIOGRAPHIES  151 

less  fully  in  the  bibliographies  of  Eguiara  (1755),  Beristain  y  Souza 
(1816-21),  Squier  (1861),  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872), 
Civezza  (1879),  CarrOlo  y  Ancona  (1878-82;  ed.  1883,  p.  123-127), 
Sanchez  (1886),  and  Medina  (1907-12).  An  separate  list  of  these 
missing  authorities  is  given  in  El  Registro  Yucateco  (1845,  p.  358), 
an  almost  complete  list  by  Berendt  (1868b),  and  shorter  lists  by 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  i-iv),  Viiiaza  (1892, 
p.  241  et  seq.),  Brinton  (1897),  and  Juan  Molina  (1904^13,  v.  1, 
p.  327-330). 

In  the  following  list  of  the  missing  authorities  I  have  tried  to  ar- 
range the  authors  in  as  near  a  chronological  order  as  possible.  The 
Berendt  manuscript  (18686)  gives,  in  several  instances,  dates  for 
the  various  manuscripts  which  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  in  any 
other  authority.  This  list  compiled  from  the  above  sources  is  as 
follows: 

List  of  Missing  Authorities 

XVI  Century. 

Villalpando:  circa  1546. 

(1)  Arte.1 

(2)  Doctrina. 

1571  Vocabulario,  missing  (?). 

Landa:  in  Yucatan,  1549-1579. 

(1)  Arte  (possibly  a  revised  edition  of  Villalpando  (1). 

(2)  Doctrina  (?). 

Solana:  in  Yucatan  1560-1600. 

(1)  Sermones. 

(2)  Noticias  sagradas. 

(3)  Apuntaciones  sobre  las  antiguedades  (?). 

(4)  Estudios  historicos. 

(5)  Apuntes  de  las  santas  escrituras. 

(6)  Apuntamientos  historicos. 
Xiu:  circa  1593. 

1582  Relacion  sobre  las  costumbres. 
(1)  Vocabulario. 

1  The  number  in  front  of  each  work  refers  to  the  corresponding  number  in 
the  Bibliography  under  the  author. 


152  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

CiudadReal:  died,  1617. 

(1)  Gran  calepino  (Motul  dictionary  ?). 

(2)  Diccionario  (?). 

(3)  Tratado  curioso. 

(4)  Sermones. 

Torralva:  in  Yucatan,  1573-1624. 

(1)  Sermones. 
Najera,  Gaspar  de:  in  Yucatan,  circa  1579. 

(1)  Relacion  de  las  antigt-edades  de  Yucatan. 
Anon.1 

(28)  Vocabulario  grande. 

(30)  Un  librillo  escrito  ...  en  el  idioma  de  los  Indios. 

XVII  Century. 

Sanchez  de  Aguilar. 

(1)  Catecismo,  1602  (Berendt). 
Acevedo:  in  Yucatan,  1592-1624. 

(1)  Gramatica. 

(2)  Instrucciones  catequisticas. 
Cuartas:  died,  1610. 

(1)  Arte. 
Coronel:  in  Yucatan,  1590-1651. 

(1)  Vocabulario. 

(2)  Doctrina. 

(3)  Confesionario. 
Rincon:  died,  1647. 

(1)  Sermones. 
Valladolid:  in  Yucatan,  1617-52. 

(1)  Sacramentos. 

(2)  Dioscorides. 

(3)  Vocabulario  (?). 
Mena:  died,  1633. 

(1)  Sermones. 
Cardenas: 
1639  Relacion. 

1  Clavigero  gives  the  name  of  Jose  Dominguez  as  an  author  of  Maya 
works. 


BIBLIOGRAPHIES  153 

Vidales:  wrote,  1644-48. 

(1)  Vocabulario. 

(2)  Sintaxis. 

(3)  Florilegia  medicinal. 
Rivas  Gastelu. 

(1)  Gramatica  (Lacandone),  1685  (Berendt). 
San  Buenaventura. 

(1)  Diccionario,  1695  (Berendt). 

XVIII  Century. 

Avendafio:  in  Yucatan,  1705.     1750  (Berendt). 

(1)  Arte. 

(2)  Diccionario. 

(3)  Diccionario  abreviado. 

(4)  Diccionario  botanico. 

(5)  Diccionario  de  nombres  de  personas. 

(6)  Explicacion  de  varios  vaticinios. 

XIX  Century. 
Carvajal. 

(2)  Collection  of  proverbs. 
Henderson,  circa  1860. 

(1)  Book  of  Genesis  in  Maya. 

(2)  Psalms  in  Maya. 

(3)  English  translation  of  Beltran  (1746),  ? 
Kingdon,  circa  1860. 

(1)  English  translation  of  Beltran  (1746),  ? 

(2)  Dictionary. 

Eakly  History  and  Early  Bibliography.  No  attempt  has 
been  made  to  exhaust  the  references  to  books  and  manuscripts 
mentioned  in  the  early  histories,  such  as  those  of  Martyr  (1516), 
Mendieta  (1870),  written  about  1590,  Herrera  (1601-15),  Gregorio 
Garcia  (1607),  Torquemada  (1613),  Remesal  (1620),  Cogolludo 
(1688),  Villagutierre  (1701),  Boturini  (1746),  and  other  similar 
works.  The  earliest  general  bibliographies  which  mention  books  on 
the  Maya  language  are  those  of  Leon  Pinelo  (1629;  2d  ed.  by  Barcia, 
1737-38)  and  Nicolas  Antonio  (1672  and  1696),  the  former  a  sequel 
of  the  latter  although  published  first.  Eguiara  (1755)  is  the  first 
to  give  a  list  composed  solely  of  the  books  on  Latin  America.   This 


154  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

work  was  never  completed,  only  the  first  volume,  through  C,  being 
printed.  Four  note-books  containing  other  parts  of  the  manuscript 
are  said  to  be  in  the  library  of  the  Cathedral  of  Mexico  City.1 

The  manuscript  bibliography  of  Alcedo  (1807)  is  especially  good 
for  biographical  details  and  he  gives  his  opinion  of  the  early 
bibliographies.2  Harrisse  (1866,  p.  xiii-xlii)  also  gives  a  very  good 
discussion  of  the  important  bibliographies. 

Clavigero  (1780-81;  ed.  1826,  v.  2,  p.  396)  gives  a  Catdlogo  de 
algunos  autores  Europeos  y  criollos  que  han  escrito  sobre  la  doctrina 
y  moral  cristianas  en  las  lenguas  de  Anahuac.  This  is  probably  the 
first  attempt  to  bring  together  in  one  place  a  list  of  the  writings  on 
Mexican  linguistics. 

Hervas  y  Panduro  (1784;  ed.  1800-05,  v.  1,  p.  289-290)  and 
Vater  (1815)  are  more  ambitious  attempts  at  listing  linguistic 
works  covering  larger  areas. 

General  and  American  Bibliography.  There  is  a  long  list 
of  general  bibliographies  many  of  them  specializing  on  books 
on  America.  It  is  only  necessary  to  give  a  few  of  these  which 
contain  references  to  works  on  Maya  linguistics.  Rich  (1835), 
Ternaux-Compans  (1837),  Leclerc  (1867  and  1878),  Sabin  (1868- 
92),  Andrade,  (1869;  Languages,  p.  362-368),  Quaritch  (1873  et 
seq.),  Field  (1873,  1875),  Civezza  (1879),  Murphy  (1884)  and 
Menendez  y  Pelayo  (1888)  are  a  few  of  the  more  important  general 
bibliographies. 

1  Mitre,  1909-11,  v.  1,  p.  28-29,  probably  from  Boletin  de  Sociedad  Mexi- 
cana  de  Geografia  y  Estadistica,  v.  10,  no.  2,  p.  77. 

2  Harrisse  (1866,  p.  xxiv)  comments  as  follows  on  Alcedo's  work,  "  This 
bulky  compilation  seems  to  be  based  entirely  upon  Pinelo-Barcia,  with  the 
addition  of  a  few  biographical  notes,  which  are  of  interest  only  when  referring 
to  modern  American  authors.  The  titles  are  given  in  alphabetical  order, 
abridged,  and  selected  with  very  little  discrimination."  This  is  not  a  fair  esti- 
mate of  the  work  of  Alcedo.  The  latter  gives  far  more  details  than  Barcia  and 
the  biographical  notes  are  very  full  and  refer  to  the  early  as  well  as  to  the  later 
writers.  In  a  few  cases  Alcedo  is  better  than  Beristain  y  Souza  for  biography. 
It  is  interesting  to  note  that  Alcedo  (f.  iv  ob)  comments  as  follows  on  Barcia, 
"  Tan  lleno  de  err  ores  en  los  nombres  y  apellidos  de  los  autores,  en  los  titulos  de 
las  obras  y  en  los  anos  y  lugares  que  se  imprimieron,  que  6  ya  fuese  por  defecto 
de  los  copiantes  6  del  impresor  apenas  hay  articulo  sin  yerro;  por  cuya  razon  es  de 
poquisima  utilidad,  y  no  menece  el  titulo  que  tiene."  It  is  evident  that  Alcedo 
did  not  have  access  to  Cogolludo  and  therefore  he  failed  to  mention  several  of 
the  early  writers. 


BIBLIOGRAPHIES  ,  155 

American  Linguistics.  Ludewig  (1858;  Maya,  p.  102-103, 
226-227)  is  an  excellent  work  on  American  linguistic  research. 
Others  are  Icazbalceta  (1866)  and  Platzmann  (1876:  1903).  Winsor 
(1889,  v.  1,  p.  427)  has  a  bibliographical  note  on  American  lan- 
guages. The  catalogues  of  Hiersemann  (1891  et  seq.)  often  con- 
tain important  material  on  the  Maya  language.  Special  mention 
should  be  made  of  three  works  which  come  in  this  class.  The  first 
of  these  is  the  most  exhaustive  list  contained  in  the  proof-sheets  of 
Pilling  (1885),  made  in  collaboration  with  librarians  of  the  great 
collections  of  Americana.  This  work  is  indispensable  for  investiga- 
tions on  American  languages. 

The  second  of  these  is  a  bibliography  of  the  Lenguas  Indigenas 
de  America  by  Viiiaza  (1892).  He  has  made  use  of  many  of  the 
earlier  lists  and  gives  under  most  of  the  entries  the  various  early 
references  to  the  books  in  question.   It  is  a  most  useful  work. 

The  third,  and  perhaps  the  most  valuable  general  bibliography 
on  American  linguistics,  is  a  Catdlogo  Razonado  by  Mitre  (1909- 
11, 1912).  This  contains  full  critical  remarks  on  the  different  works 
and  often  quotes  long  passages  from  the  various  grammars. 

Stein  (1897,  p.  261-262)  mentions  a  few  of  the  bibliographies  on 
American  linguistics. 

Middle  America.  General  Works.  Of  the  older  authori- 
ties the  first  place  in  this  class  should  be  given  to  the  monumental 
work  of  Beristain  y  Souza  (1816-21)  with  additions  by  Ramirez 
(1898).  This  is  founded  on  the  bibliography  of  Eguiara  (1755), 
but  it  is  a  great  improvement  in  arrangement  and  it  is  very  much 
more  complete.  The  biographical  notes  are  especially  valuable 
and  are  followed  by  many  of  the  later  authorities.  Next  in  impor- 
tance come  the  great  works  of  Medina  (1898-1907,  1907-12). 
Next  in  point  of  time  to  Beristain  y  Souza  come  two  sale  cata- 
logues, Anon  (1868)  and  Fischer  (1869).  The  latter  contains  the 
Berendt  books  which  were  not  included  in  those  bought  by  Brinton. 
The  bibliography  of  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1871;  Maya,  p.  169- 
172)  is  a  very  good  one  containing  a  list  of  many  manuscripts  as 
well  as  printed  books.  Pinart  (1883)  contains  much  the  same  ma- 
terial as  that  in  the  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  list  as  Pinart  bought 
the  greater  part  of  the  library  of  the  latter.  Ramirez  (1880)  is  a 
well  known  work,  more  important  for  Mexico  than  for  Central 


156  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

America  however.  Icazbalceta  (1886)  has  a  bibliography  of  xvi 
century  books  with  additions  by  Leon  (1902).  Beauvois  (1899) 
should  be  mentioned  here.  V.  de  P.  Andrade  (1899)  has  an  essay 
on  the  books  of  the  xvn  century,  Leon  (1902-08)  on  those  of  the 
xviii  and  Leon  (1902a)  again  on  those  of  the  xix  century.  Lejeal 
(1902;  Languages,  p.  31-39)  has  a  very  good  general  bibliography 
of  Middle  America.  Lehmann  (1907)  has  slight  material  on  the 
Maya.  The  Bulletin  of  the  New  York  Public  Library  (1909)  is  a 
good  general  working  list.  The  two  catalogues  of  the  library  of 
Wilkinson  (1914,  1915)  include  a  large  number  of  documents 
never  before  noted,  together  with  several  unique  books.  There  is 
also  a  manuscript  list  of  books  by  Wilkinson  (1) .  This  bibliography 
is  very  disappointing  as  it  contains  practically  no  original  material. 
Furthermore,  it  is  far  from  complete.  Medina  serves  as  the  main 
source  of  the  work.   The  contents  are  noted  in  the  Bibliography. 

The  greater  part  of  the  rare  material  in  the  Bancroft  Library  at 
the  University  of  California  is  included  in  the  notes  taken  by 
Tozzer  (1918). 

Middle  America.  Linguistics.  Romero  (1860)  has  a  list  of 
writers  on  Mexican  languages.  The  bibliography  of  Sanchez 
(1886)  gives  a  few  of  the  early  writers  on  the  Maya  language. 
Leon  (1905)  covers  the  linguistic  field  superficially. 

Central  America.  General  Works.  Bandelier  (1881)  is 
especially  good  from  the  side  of  early  histories.  It  is  of  little  im- 
portance, however,  on  the  subject  of  languages. 

Central  America.  Linguistics.  The  Monograph  of  Squier 
(1861)  is  well  known  as  an  excellent  second-hand  bibliography. 
He  uses  the  biographical  material  in  Beristain  y  Souza  and  Har- 
risse  has  noted  that  the  titles  are  taken  from  other  notices  of  the 
books  rather  than  from  the  books  themselves.1  Haebler  (1895; 
Maya,  p.  566-568)  is  to  be  especially  recommended.  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  (1859)  gives  a  bibliography  of  the  languages  of  Central 
America. 

1  Squier  made  use  of  the  works  of  Beristain  y  Souza,  Remesal,  Vasquez, 
Cogolludo,  Villagutierre,  Juarros,  etc.,  but  he  did  not  use  Balbi,  Hervas  y 
Panduro,  Gilii,  Adelung,  Vater,  and  Buschmann  as  he  presumed  these  were 
known  to  investigators. 


BIBLIOGRAPHIES  157 

The  Catalogue  of  the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection  by  Brinton 
(1900;  Maya,  p.  204-215)  is  probably  the  most  valuable  printed 
bibliography  of  the  Maya  linguistic  stock.  It  contains  material 
not  to  be  found  in  any  other  work,  especially  as  regards  manu- 
scripts. Mention  has  been  made  in  another  place  of  this  collec- 
tion (p.  147). 

Gates  (2)  has  prepared  a  finding  list  of  manuscripts  and  printed 
material  on  the  languages  of  the  Maya  stock.  He  also  has  an  excel- 
lent essay  (Gates,  1915)  on  the  unpublished  material  in  the  Maya 
dialects.  Stoll  (1884,  p.  73-78)  contains  a  short  list  of  books  on  the 
Maya  family. 

Yucatan.  General  Works.  No  attempt  is  made  here  to 
touch  upon  any  material  on  the  ruins  of  Yucatan.  It  must  not  be 
forgotten  also  that  all  the  books  listed  in  the  previous  divisions 
have  something  in  them  on  the  Maya  dialect.  There  are  noted 
here  only  those  books  bearing  on  the  language  which  are  limited  in 
their  general  contents  to  Yucatan.  Castillo  (1866)  published  only 
the  first  volume  of  an  historical  and  biographical  dictionary  which 
has  some  good  material  on  the  language.1  Berendt  (7  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  181)  has  a  fair  bibliography  of  Yucatan  in  manuscript.  Car- 
rillo  y  Ancona  (1868,  1871,  1871a,  1878-82)  gives  bibliographical 
material  on  the  Maya  language.  Sosa  (1884)  and  especially  Mar- 
tinez Alomia  (1906)  are  biographical-bibliographical  works  of  some 
importance.  Menendez  (1906)  has  a  good  list  of  writers  on  Yuca- 
tan.   Saville  (1921)  also  has  a  list  of  works  on  Yucatan. 

Yucatan.  Maya  Linguistics.  Berendt  (8  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  11) 
and  de  Rosny  (1875;  ed.  1904)  have  bibliographical  notes  limited 
to  the  Maya  dialect.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872)  should 
be  mentioned  here.  Brinton  (1882,  p.  72-77)  discusses  the  Maya 
grammars  and  dictionaries.  Tozzer  (1917,  p.  184-186)  gives  a 
bibliography  covering  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam. 

Biographical  Works.  Alcedo  (1807),  Beristain  y  Souza  (1816- 
21),  Castillo  (1866),  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872),  Sosa  (1866: 
1884),  and  Martinez  Alomia  (1906)  are  excellent  reference  books 
on  the  biographies  of  writers  on  Maya  linguistics. 

1  Reference  should  be  made  here  to  another  work  of  Castillo  (1861)  which 
Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  138)  considers  "preciosa." 


158  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Sale  Catalogues.  References  have  been  made  to  a  few  of  the 
important  sale  catalogues  containing  books  on  Maya  linguistics. 
No  attempt  has  been  made  to  exhaust  this  list.  The  following  are 
noted  in  the  bibliography:  Anon  (1868),  Fischer  (1869),  J.  M. 
Andrade  (1869),  Quaritch  (1873  et  seq.),  Field  (1875),  Clarke 
(1878),  Ramirez  (1880),  Maisonneuve  (1881:  1897),  Triibner 
(1882),  Murphy  (1884),  Penafiel  (1886),  Chadenat  (1889  et  seq.), 
Hiersemann  (1891  et  seq.),  Leon  (1896),  Platzmann  (1903),  Hamy 
(1909),  and  Wilkinson  (1914;    1915). 

Periodicals.  There  is  a  long  list  of  periodicals  printed  in  Yuca- 
tan, principally  in  Merida  and  in  Campeche.  With  few  exceptions 
each  has  had  a  very  short  history.  The  newspaper,  La  Revista 
de  Merida,  founded  in  1859,  has  been  published  continuously  up 
to  the  present  time  with  the  exception  of  the  years  1916,  1917. 
It  often  contains  important  articles  on  the  Maya  language.  El 
Museo  Yucateco  (1841-42)  was  published  in  Campeche,  only  two 
volumes  of  which  appeared.  El  Registro  Yucateco  (1845-49)  only 
lasted  for  five  years.  This  publication  (1845,  p.  233-235)  gives  a 
list  of  the  various  periodicals  appearing  in  Yucatan  from  1813  to 
1845.  Medina  (1904)  and  Molina  (1904-13,  v.  3,  p.  574)  also 
give  lists.  Few  of  these  papers  contain  anything  of  interest  on  our 
subject.  La  Revista  Yucateca  (1849),  El  Semanario  Yucateco 
(1878-82),  and  El  Seminario  Conciliar  are  names  of  other  early 
serial  publications.  Martinez  Alomia  (1902)  gives  a  list  of  the  peri- 
odicals published  in  Campeche  from  1813  to  1889.  The  Calendario 
de  Espinosa,  a  modern  publication,  appearing  annually,  often  con- 
tains short  articles  on  the  Maya  language. 

CLASSIFICATION  OF  LANGUAGES 

General.  The  monumental  work  of  the  Abbe  Hervas  y  Pan- 
duro  (1784;  ed.  1800-05)  is  the  first  attempt  at  a  classification  and 
study  of  the  languages  of  the  world.1  Hervas  (1784)  treats  of  the 
classification  of  the  languages  and  v.  1  of  the  1800-05  edition  con- 
siders the  languages  of  America.  There  is  a  very  brief  notice  of 
the  Maya  language  (1800-05,  v.  1,  p.  289-290). 

1  For  an  excellent  discussion  of  this  work  and  the  material  used  in  its  prep- 
aration, see  Mitre  1909-11,  v.  1,  p.  116-122. 


CLASSIFICATION  OF  LANGUAGES  159 

The  Mithridates  begun  by  Adelung  (1806-17)  and  continued  by 
Vater  is  the  second  great  attempt  to  classify  the  languages  of  the 
world.  The  3d  volume,  2d  part,  treats  of  the  languages  of  America. 
Neither  this  nor  the  work  of  Hervas  y  Panduro  is  of  much  present 
use. 

Middle  America.  The  attempts  to  classify  the  languages  of 
America  have  been  many.  These  classifications  are  of  interest  to 
us  only  as  they  treat  the  languages  of  Middle  America,  especially 
those  of  the  Maya  stock  and  particularly  those  of  the  Maya  dialect. 
No  attempt  has  been  made  to  list  the  numberless  minor  works 
such  as  Estadisticas,  etc.,  printed  in  Mexico,  which  often  give  lists 
of  languages  spoken  in  the  Republic  or  in  the  various  states.1 

Juarros  (1808;  ed.  1857,  v.  2,  p.  35),  Latham  (1850,  p.  410-411) 
and  C.  Malte-Brun  (1862,  p.  59)  give  imperfect  lists  of  the  Maya 
dialects.  The  Ministerio  de  Fomento  (1854)  and  Siliceo  (1857), 
Secretary  of  the  Ministerio  de  Fomento,  Mexico,  both  publish  brief 
accounts  of  the  dialects  of  Maya.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1857) 
has  an  incomplete  list.  Orozco  y  Berra  (1864,  esp.  p.  56  and  map) 
gives  one  of  the  best  of  the  earliest  classifications.  Malte-Brun 
(1878,  p.  19-20)  republishes  this  with  corrections.  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  (1865,  p.  127-129,)  Bancroft  (1874-76,  v.  3,  p.  571), 
Berendt  (1878,  map),  Larrainzar  (1875-78,  v.  2,  p.  407-409,  map) 
arid  Bastian  (1878-89,  v.  2,  p.  343)  all  give  more  or  less  complete 
lists  of  the  dialects  of  the  Maya-Quiche  stock.  Pimentel  (1876) 
gives  a  full  list  with  an  interesting  arrangement  of  the  dialects  as 
branches  of  a  tree. 

Stoll  (1884,  map,  and  1886,  p.  300-303)  is  one  of  the  best  writers 
on  this  subject.  Cubas  (1876,  p.  105-112:  1884,  p.  23)  and  Batres 
(1885)  are  less  important.  Brinton  (1891)  and  Cubas  (1888-91, 
v.  1,  p.  v,  xv ;  also  v.  5,  p.  473)  are  serviceable.  Gerrodette  (1891- 
92,  map),  Charencey  (1894,  p.  345-346),  and  Penafiel  (1897),  the 
latter  arranged  by  states,  are  secondary  in  importance.  Sapper 
1893:  1895a:  1897:  1905)  ranks  with  Stoll  as  an  authority.  Leon 
(1900;  ed.  1903,  p.  282,  map),  Gatschet  (1900),  and  Keane  (1901; 
ed.  1911,  v.  2,  p.  22)  have  fairly  complete  lists.  Penafiel  (1900, 
p.  92-97,  216—221,  340—343,  464-469)  gives  a  census  of  people 

1  Two  of  the  most  important  of  these  works  are  those  of  Regil  and  Peon 
(1852)  and  Baqueiro  (1881)  as  they  treat  solely  of  Yucatan. 


160  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

speaking  Maya  and  its  various  dialects.  The  work  of  Thomas 
(1902),  amplified  and  corrected  by  Swanton,  (Thomas  and  Swan- 
ton,  1911,  map)  stands  at  present  as  the  best  discussion  of  the 
different  linguistic  families  of  Middle  America.  Zayas  (1908,  p.  160- 
164)  and  Beuchat  (1912,  p.  405-406)  give  brief  accounts  of  the 
different  Maya  dialects.  Joyce  (1914,  p.  201-202)  follows  Thomas 
and  Swanton  in  the  main.  Attention  should  be  called  to  the  work 
of  Gates  (1920),  more  especially  to  his  map  (p.  606).  Wilkinson 
(1)  has  a  tentative  arrangement  of  the  Maya  dialects  with  their 
lopation. 

AFFINITIES 

It  is  not  necessary  to  treat  here  the  much  debated  question  re- 
garding the  possible  affiliation  between  the  Maya  culture  and  that 
in  other  parts  of  the  world.  For  bibliographical  purposes  it  is  well 
to  record  the  most  important  discussions  regarding  the  possible  con- 
nection between  the  Maya  language  and  that  spoken  in  other  parts 
of  the  world.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  add  that  these  treatises  are 
of  no  scientific  value.  No  attempt  is  made  to  discuss  the  possible 
affiliation  of  any  features  other  than  language. 

European  Languages.  The  connection  between  Maya  and 
several  of  the  languages  of  the  Indo-European  and  Semitic  groups 
is  discussed  by  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  i-xlix).1 
Douay  (1900,  p.  94)  quotes  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg.  The  work  of 
LePlongeon,  as  described  by  Salisbury  (1877),  and  the  writings  of 
LePlongeon  himself  (1879:  1880:  1880a,  1881:  1881a:  1896)  are 
interesting  examples  of  other  fantastic  ideas  regarding  the  connec- 
tion between  the  Maya  language  and  those  of  the  Old  World.  Car- 
rillo  y  Ancona  (1880b;  ed.  1883,  p.  624-631)  refutes  the  testimony 
of  LePlongeon  of  a  connection  between  Maya  on  the  one  hand  and 
Greek  and  Egyptian  on  the  other.  Ober  (1884,  p.  102)  quotes  Le 
Plongeon  regarding  a  Chaldean  connection.  Ancona  (1877)  com- 
pares some  Maya  words  with  Egyptian.  Dusaert  (1882)  refutes 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg.2 

Oceanic  and  Asiatic  Languages.  A  belief  in  a  relationship 
between  Maya  and  the  languages  of  the  Oceanic  area  is  held  by 

1  See  reference  to  this  in  Mitre  (1909-11,  v.  3,  p.  63). 

2  See  also  in  this  connection  the  list  of  comparative  vobabularies  on  p.  293. 


DESCRIPTION  OF  LANGUAGE  161 

Thomas  (1894),  Tregear  (1898),  and  Campbell  (1898-99).  Ken- 
nedy (1861,  p.  139)  thinks  there  is  some  affiliation  between  Maya 
and  Chinese  or  Japanese.  Douay  (1905)  denies  that  there  is  any 
connection  between  Maya  and  Japanese.  Books  containing  com- 
parative vocabularies  of  Maya  and  Chinese  are  discussed  on  p.  179. 

South  American  Languages.  Douay  (1)  discusses  the  affilia- 
tion between  the  Maya  vocabulary  and  that  of  Quechua.1 

Antillian  Languages.  A  connection  between  Maya  and  the 
languages  of  the  Antilles  was  thought  possible  from  very  early 
times.2  Oviedo  (1535),  quoted  in  turn  by  Vater-Adelung  (1806-17) 
and  Prichard  (1843),  thinks  that  Cuba  and  Yucatan  were  related 
linguistically.  Bachiller  (1883,  chap.  5)  states  that  Cuba  was  not 
populated  from  Yucatan  but  he  compares  Maya  with  the  lan- 
guages of  the  Antilles.  Douay  (1894:  1900)  believes  that  there 
are  certain  lexical  similarities  between  Maya-Quiche  and  the  lan- 
guage of  Haiti. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  LANGUAGE 

Apart  from  the  more  detailed  examination  and  description  of 
the  Maya  language  given  in  many  of  the  grammars,  there  is  often 
a  short  notice  of  the  dialect  in  many  of  the  early  histories  and  in  a 
large  number  of  the  later  works.  In  the  Coleccion  de  Documentos 
Ineditos  (1898-1900,  v.  11,  13)  and  in  other  collections  of  this 
sort  brief  reference  is  often  made  to  the  language.  The  O'Neil 
manuscript  (1795)  probably  belongs  here.  Barton  (1797,  p.  lxxiii) 
quotes  Clavigero  and  mentions  the  Maya  dialect.  F.  H.  A.  von 
Humboldt  (1811,  v  2,  p.  246),  followed  by  J.  B.  Gordon  (1820, 
p.  73),  has  a  short  statement  including  the  fact  that  the  language 
is  guttural.  Balbi  (1826;  ed.  1835,  p.  xxx),  Ternaux-Compans 
(1843),  and  Granado  (1845,  p.  167)  give  very  brief  notes  on  the 
language.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1855)  gives  a  short  description 
of  the  language  and  (1857-59,  v.  1,  p.  63)  mentions  the  fact  that 
the  Maya  is  undoubtedly  the  mother  of  the  Tzental  of  Chiapas. 

1  In  this  connection,  he  uses  the  Maya  vocabularies  of  Brasseur  de  Bour- 
bourg (1869-70)  and  Charencey  both  of  which  are  very  imperfect. 

2  Peter  Martyr  in  De  Insults  nuper  inventis  writes  "  Quorum  idioma  si  non 
idem,  consanguineum  tamen." 


162  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Jehan  (1864,  col.  881)  describes  the  language.  Bollaert  (1870, 
p.  291)  quotes  Beltran  regarding  Maya  diction  and  Hovelaque 
(1876,  p.  107)  classes  Maya  among  the  agglutinative  languages. 

Orozco  y  Berra  (1864,  p.  155-159)  presents  almost  the  first 
good  account  of  the  language  outside  that  of  the  grammars  which 
are  noted  in  another  place.  Garcia  y  Garcia  (1865,  p.  lxxv)  is  one 
of  the  many  who  states  the  ease  with  which  Maya  is  learned  by 
the  Spanish-speaking  population.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1865:  1866; 
ed.  1883,  p.  555-561:  1878-82;  ed.  1883,  p.  101-123)  presents  his 
own  ideas  regarding  the  language  and  also  quotes  freely  from  the 
earlier  authorities.  J.  G.  Miiller  (1855)  has  a  very  short  note.  Brin- 
ton  (1871)  has  a  description  of  the  Maya  stock  in  general.  Ancona 
(1878-1905;  ed.  1889,  v.  1,  p.  112-117)  limits  his  observations 
to  the  language  of  Yucatan.  Brinton  (1881,  p.  623 :  1882a,  p.  218, 
note)  speaks  of  the  figurative  expressions  it  is  possible  to  make 
in  Maya.  In  Brinton  (1885)  the  philosophical  character  of  the 
Maya  is  described  according  to  an  unknown  manuscript  of  von 
Humboldt.  Palma  y  Palma  (1901,  p.  108-131)  has  a  very  interest- 
ing chapter  on  the  richness  of  expression  possible  in  Maya. 

The  long  description  of  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70,  v.  2, 
p.  i-xlix)  is  practically  worthless.  Larrainzar  (1875-78,  v.  2,  p.  407- 
409)  and  Rockstroh  (1878,  p.  1-13)  give  a  general  description  of 
Maya.  Malte-Brun  (1878)  has  a  statement  taken  from  Orozco 
y  Berra  (1864).  Baeza  {circa  1880)  has  a  paper  on  the  Maya  lan- 
guage. Short  accounts  of  the  language  also  appear  in  Winsor  (1889, 
v.  1,  p.  427),  Juan  Molina  (1896,  p.  332-335),  Spencer  (1873-1910, 
div.  ii,  pt.  lb,  p.  51),  Mendez  (1898),  Brinton  (1900a,  p.  207),  and 
Lehmann  (1907).  Tozzer  (1902-05)  makes  several  general  obser- 
vations on  the  language.  Mitre  (1909-11,  v.  3,  p.  61-64)  sum- 
marizes the  description  of  the  language  taken  from  several  sources. 
Hestermann  (1915)  has  a  few  scattering  observations  on  the 
language. 

GRAMMARS 

Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1881;  ed.  1883,  p.  123),  quoted  by  Brinton 
(1882,  p.  72),  states  that  thirteen  grammars  of  the  Maya  language 
have  been  written.  This  number  could  be  considerably  increased 
at  the  present  time. 

XVI  Century.  Mention  has  already  been  made  of  the  early 
work  of  Villalpando  (§  1).    He  was  the  author  of  a  grammar,  ac- 


GRAMMARS  163 

cording  to  Landa  (1863,  p.  94),  which  was  probably  printed  but  no 
copy  is  now  known.  His  dictionary,  probably  founded  on  the 
vocabulary  contained  in  the  grammar  was  printed  in  1571.  The 
grammar  is  supposed  to  have  been  perfected  by  Landa  (§  l)1  and 
to  have  furnished  some  of  the  material  for  the  grammar  of  Coronel 
(1620). 

XVII  Century.  It  is  probable  that  the  first  Maya  grammar 
of  this  century  was  written  by  Acevedo  (§  1) 2  who  came  to  Yuca- 
tan in  1592  and  died  at  the  end  of  the  first  quarter  of  the  century.3 
Another  grammar  of  about  this  time  is  that  by  Cuartas  (§  1).  The 
earliest  grammar  now  available  is  that  of  Coronel  (1620)  ,4  the 
teacher  of  Cogolludo.  The  only  copy  known  is  in  the  possession  of 
Mr.  Gates.  As  previously  noted  (p.  10),  it  undoubtedly  furnished 
the  foundation  for  the  grammar  of  San  Buenaventura.  Other 
grammars  of  this  century,  all  of  which  have  disappeared,  are  those 
written  by  Vidales  (§  2)  toward  the  end  of  the  second  quarter  of 
the  century  5  and  one  on  the  Lacandone  dialect  by  Rivas  Gastelu 
(§  1),  a  native  of  Guatemala. 

San  Buenaventura  (1684;  2d  ed  1888),  a  French  Franciscan 
stationed  in  Merida,  wrote  the  grammar  which  has  been  described 
elsewhere  (p.  10)  on  or  about  1675.6    This  was  published  in  1684 

1  Cogolludo  (1688,  lib.  vi,  cap.  i)  writes,  "  Fr.  Lorengo  de  Bienvenida,  con  no 
menos  feliz  despacho,  que  se  presumib  de  la  solicitud  de  tan  gran  Religioso,  yi 
traxo  una  Mission  de  diez  Religiosos,  que  le  did  el  Rey  para  esta  Provincia,  y 
sabiendo  que  avian  llegado  a  desembarcar  en  el  Puerto  de  Zilam,  el  R.  Padre 
Custodio  did  orden  at  Padre  Fr.  Diego  de  Landa,  que  era  Guardian  de  Meridaf 
para  que  fuesse  al  Puerto,  y  los  recibiesse,  y  llevandolos  at  Convento  de  Ytzmal 
les  leyesse  el  Arte  de  la  lengua  de  estos  naturales,  que  el  avia  perficionado,  y  que  en 
sabiendole  se  fuesse  a  su  Convento  de  Merida." 

2  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  165)  writes:  "Vino  con  la  cruz  del 
misionero  a  la  provincia  de  Yucatan,  y  entre  sus  muchos  servicios  y  esclarecidas 
virtudes,  la  historia  refiere  su  dedicacion  particular  al  estudio  del  idioma  yucateco, 
de  que  escribio  un  'Manual  6  compendio  elemental,'  y  una  como  ' Misceldnea 
Maya,'  6  coleccion  de  escritos  varios  sobre  este  idioma  y  de  Tratados  morales 
escritos  en  el,  procurando  suplir  con  estos  trabajos,  el  defecto  natural  de  su  lengua." 

3  See  Lizana  (1633;  ed.  1893,  p.  102)  for  details  of. his  work. 

4  For  a  full  discussion  of  the  grammars  of  Coronel,  San  Buenaventura,  and 
Beltran,  see  Part  I,  p.  9-14. 

5  Beristain  y  Souza  (1816-21,  v.  3,  p.  276)  states  that  he  wrote  from  1644 
to  1648.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1883,  p.  124)  places  this  writer  among  those  who 
worked  in  the  xvi  Century. 

6  The  Aprobacion  del  R.  P.  Fr.  Juan  de  Torres  is  dated  May  19,  1675. 


164  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

with  a  facsimile  edition  in  1888.  Until  a  few  years  ago  this  was 
considered  the  first  of  the  Maya  grammars  which  had  come  down 
to  us.  With  the  appearance  of  the  single  copy  of  Coronel's  work 
first  place  in  point  of  time  now  belongs  to  that.  It  has  been  stated 
that  San  Buenaventura  follows  Coronel  with  great  fidelity.  It  is 
quite  evident  that  San  Buenaventura's  grammar,  on  the  other 
hand,  furnished  the  data  for  grammatical  material  on  the  Maya 
given  by  A  von  Humboldt l  (1811,  English  ed.  v.  2,  p.  246)  and  he, 
in  turn,  was  followed  by  Adelung  (1806-17,  v.  3,  pt.  3,  p.  16-23). 
Pimentel  (1862-65,  v.  2,  p.  1-39;  ed.  1875,  v.  3,  p.  105-138,  230- 
275)  follows  San  Buenaventura.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70, 
v.  2,  p.  1-84)  has  printed  the  greater  part  of  this  grammar  under  a 
different  arrangement  and  Mitre  (1909-11,  v.  3,  p.  64-70)  has 
given  a  full  outline  of  this  grammar  of  San  Buenaventura.  Bryne 
(1885,  v.  1,  p.  191-193;  ed.  1892,  v.  1,  p.  195-197)  has  some  gram- 
matical notes  after  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg. 

XVIII  Century.  One  of  the  grammars  of  this  century  is  that 
of  Avendafio  (§  1)  who  held  the  title  of  Difinidor  in  Yucatan  in 
1705.2    This  work  has  disappeared. 

Beltran  (1746;  2d  ed.  1859)  and  his  famous  grammar  come  in 
this  century.  As  previously  noted  (p.  10),  this  grammar,  by  a 
native  of  Yucatan,  seems  by  far  the  best  of  the  early  works  on  the 
Maya.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  is  altogether  too  severe  in  his  crit- 
icism of  this  grammar  in  comparison  with  that  of  San  Buena- 
ventura. He  writes  (1871,  p.  24),  "  II  possedait  parfaitement  sa 
langue:  mais  il  n'en  comprit  pas  le  genie  comme  son  predecesseur, 
le  pere  Gabriel  de  Saint  Bonaventure,  auquel  il  emprunta,  toutefois, 
une  partie  de  son  travail;  aussi  sa  grammaire,  diffuse  et  mal  congue, 
manque-t-elle  de  lucidite."  Seler  (1887)  is  also  inclined  to  favor  San 
Buenaventura  to  Beltran.3    Beltran  was  a  native  of  Yucatan  and 

1  W.  von  Humboldt  (1:  2)  is  the  author  of  two  manuscripts  on  the  Maya 
grammar. 

2  For  an  excellent  account  of  the  missionary  labors  of  this  Franciscan,  see 
his  work  (1696),  translated  by  Mr.  Charles  P.  Bowditch,  and  collated  with 
other  material  by  Means  (1917). 

Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1883,  p.  125)  places  Avendafio  among  the  writers  of  the 
xt  II  Century.    Berendt  dates  these  works  of  Avendafio  about  1750. 

3  Gates  also  regards  Beltran's  work  as  inferior  to  that  of  the  two  earlier 
writers  whose  grammars  are  extant. 


GRAMMARS  165 

a  good  Maya  scholar.  He  taught  Maya  in  Merida  about  1740. 
His  grammar  was  written  in  1742  and  printed  in  1746  with  an 
excellent  reprint  in  1859. 

Berendt  (1867)  states  that  he  saw  Henderson  (§  3)  at  work  in 
Belize  and  that  the  latter  made  a  translation  into  English  of 
Beltran's  grammar.  According  to  Ludewig  (1858,  p.  227)  Kingdon 
(§  1)  made  an  English  translation  of  the  same  grammar  which  is 
said  to  be  in  the  possession  of  the  American  Bible  Society  of  New 
York.  The  present  Secretary  states  that  he  can  find  no  trace  of 
this  manuscript.  As  previously  pointed  out,  there  is  much  con- 
fusion over  the  authorship  of  works  listed  under  Henderson  and 
Kingdon. 

Much  of  the  material  published  on  the  Maya  grammar  in  the 
last  century  was  taken  from  Beltran.  The  list  of  his  followers  is  a 
long  one.  It  contains:  Norman  (1843,  p.  240-249),  Gallatin  (1845, 
p.  45-47,  252-268)  and  Heller  (1853,  p.  381-385).  They  evidently 
had  access  to  the  first  edition.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1864, 
p.  459-478)  writes  that  he  obtained  his  grammatical  material  from 
the  works  of  Beltran  and  Ruz.  It  is  quite  evident  that  he  de- 
pended very  slightly,  if  at  all,  on  Beltran's  treatise.  According  to 
Brinton  (1900,  p.  209),  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  explained  to  Berendt 
that  when  he  wrote  this  book  he  had  never  seen  the  original  works 
either  of  Beltran  or  of  Ruz  but  only  Gallatin's  reference  to  the 
former  and  Kingdon's  translation  of  the  latter.  De  Rosny  (1875, 
p.  61-82)  and  Bancroft  (1874-76,  v.  3,  p.  773-776)  give  some  por- 
tions of  Beltran  almost  without  change.  Charencey  (1883-84;  ed. 
1885)  uses  it  in  comparing  the  conjugation  of  the  Maya  with  that  of 
Quiche.  Larrainzar  (1875-78,  v.  2,  p.  407-408)  mentions  Beltran. 
Palma  y  Palma  (1901)  follows  him  quite  fully  and  Mitre  (1909- 
11,  v.  3,  p.  71-83)  gives  an  outline  of  the  work.  De  Rosny  (1904, 
p.  87-115)  has  grammatical  notes  after  San  Buenaventura,  Bel- 
tran, and  Ruz. 

XIX  Century,  etc.  The  next  independent  work  on  the  Maya 
grammar  was  that  of  Ruz  (1844:  1845) }  He  was  a  Franciscan, 
born  in  Merida  in  1785.    He  was  a  prolific  writer  on  Maya  sub- 

1  Squier  (1861,  p.  38)  gives  a  Maya  grammar  by  Narciso  (1838).  This  is 
clearly  a  mistake.  The  Narciso  work  is  a  Spanish  grammar  by  Diego  Narciso 
Herranz  y  Quiros,  translated  into  Maya  by  Ruz. 


166  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

jects  as  already  pointed  out.  His  main  grammatical  work  (1844)  is 
written  in  the  form  of  questions  and  answers  in  the  Maya  language 
and  is  really  a  translation  into  Maya  of  the  Spanish  grammar  of 
Herranz  y  Quiros  (1834).  Neither  this,  his  Cartilla  (Ruz,  1845; 
2d.  ed.  Berendt,  1871)  nor  any  of  his  other  works  are  of  great  im- 
portance from  a  linguistic  point  of  view.  An  English  translation 
of  his  grammar  was  published  by  Kingdon  (1847). 1  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  (1864,  p.  459-478)  follows  Ruz,  as  previously  stated, 
although  he  claims  to  have  used  Beltran  as  well.  Finally,  de 
Rosny  (1875,  p.  91-93)  gives  some  modern  Maya  from  Ruz. 
Vela  (1)  has  left  a  few  grammatical  notes  some  of  which  refer  to 
the  grammar  of  Ruz. 

Juan  Pio  Perez  (1)  contemplated  writing  a  grammar  and  col- 
lected notes  for  this  work  (B.  L.  C  No.  11).  There  seems  also  to 
have  been  some  manuscript  notes  on  the  language  given  by  Perez 
(1842a)  to  Stephens.2  Gallatin  (1845)  used  these  in  addition  to 
the  grammar  of  Beltran  in  preparing  his  own  work.  Perez  (1844), 
in  a  letter  written  from  Peto,  makes  some  very  interesting  gram- 
matical observations  regarding  the  changes  in  Maya  from  the 
point  of  view  of  time.  Henderson  (1852)  published  a  Maya  primer 
of  no  value. 

Berendt  (1864  and  5,  §  1,  3-5)  has  left  several  incomplete  por- 
tions of  a  Maya  grammar  in  manuscript.  Anon  (26,  p.  88-98)  pre- 
sents a  few  grammatical  notes.  Shea  (1873-76,  v.  1,  p.  411)  gives 
a  specimen  of  Maya  grammar.  Sayce  (1875,  p.  187,  note)  has  an 
example  of  the  Maya  noun  and  adjective  taken  Trom  the  text  of 
Charencey  (1873).  Gabelentz  (1881,  p.  368)  gives  an  example  of 
the  possessive.  Charencey  (1883:  1896)  should  be  mentioned 
among  the  writers  on  Maya  grammar  although  his  writings  deal 
with  special  features  of  the  language. 

1  In  a  preliminary  note  to  Berendt's  copy  of  the  Kingdon  translation 
(Berendt,  1865),  Berendt  points  out  that  Kingdon  mistranslates  Ruz's  title, 
Gramatica  Yucateca  which  does  not  mean  a  "  Yucatan  Grammar,"  but  a  gram- 
mar of  the  Yucatecan  language.  He  adds:  "It  seems  that  Father  Kingdon 
had  only  an  imperfect  knowledge  of  either  Maya  or  Spanish.  We  arrive  at 
this  conclusion  in  view  of  the  many  blunders  made  in  his  translation,  for  which 
see  my  notes."     (This  note  given  by  Brinton,  1900,  p,  208). 

2  See  Stephens,  1843,  v.  2,  p.  278.  There  is  another  set  of  manuscript  notes 
on  the  grammar  by  Perez  (10).  It  is  impossible  to  judge  how  much  of  this 
material  is  contained  in  Perez  (1)  and  (1842a). 


GRAMMARS  167 

Brinton  (1882,  p.  27-37)  gives  some  brief  grammatical  notes. 
He  had  access  to  the  early  works  of  San  Buenaventura  and  of  Bel- 
tran.  Seler  (1887),  while  basing  his  study  entirely  on  early 
printed  material,  presents  the  grammatical  forms  in  a  new  light. 
Zavala  (1896)  has  a  small  grammar,  rather  badly  arranged,  and  not 
covering  the  ground  so  fully  as  the  early  grammarians  have  done. 
Palma  y  Palma  (1901,  p.  83-474),  although  following  Beltran  in 
the  main,  presents  much  new  and  original  material  of  some  value. 
Romero  Fuentes  (1910)  and  Pacheco  Cruz  (1912)  have  phrase 
books  which  are  useful  in  acquiring  a  superficial  speaking  knowl- 
edge of  the  Maya  but  they  are  quite  inadequate  for  a  proper 
understanding  of  the  grammatical  forms. 

Lopez  Otero  (1914)  has  a  very  good  grammar  founded  in  part 
upon  the  grammar  of  Beltran  and  upon  the  linguistic  teachings  of 
the  late  Sefior  Don  Audomaro  Molina.  This  work  ranks  next  to 
that  of  the  three  early  grammarians.  It  also  gives  a  very  good  idea 
of  the  language  as  spoken  at  the  present  time. 

Special  Features.  Studies  of  special  phases  of  the  Maya  gram- 
mar are  not  numerous.  Adam  (1877)  has  a  study  of  polysynthesis 
in  Maya  and  Quiche.  Charencey  (1884)  has  some  pertinent  ideas 
regarding  the  formation  of  words  in  Maya  and  another  paper 
(1896)  on  the  classification  of  the  verb.  Tozzer  (1912)  attempts  to 
classify  the  verb.  The  Maya  pronoun  is  treated  by  Brinton  1885, 
p.  35-36),  Charencey  (1883,  p.  123-129),  and  by  Tozzer  (1906). 
Rejon  Garcia  (1905,  p.  19-27)  has  some  remarks  of  no  value  on 
certain  particles.  Gates  (1)  has  an  excellent  article  in  manuscript 
regarding  the  modern  approach  to  a  Maya  grammar.  He  also 
(Gates,  1914)  discusses  the  grammar  from  a  philosophical  basis. 

Comparative  Grammar.  Maya  Stock.  This  subject  is  best 
treated  by  Seler  (1887),  Charencey  (1866:  1883-84;  digest  in 
Mitre,  1909-11,  v.  3,  p.  87-95),  and  Charencey  (1883,  p.  123-139). 
The  interpretation  of  the  material,  gathered  from  the  older  au- 
thorities, is  a  distinct  contribution  to  the  study  of  the  Maya 
language  as  a  whole. 

Slight  comparative  grammatical  material  on  the  Maya  and 
Quiche  is  to  be  found  in  Adam  (1877).  Gallatin  (1845)  treats  of 
Maya,  Quiche,  Pokonchi,  and  Huastec.    F.  Miiller  (1876-88,  v.  2, 


168  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

p.  305-313,  after  Vater)  compares  Maya,  Quiche,  Mam,  Pokonchi, 
and  Huastec. 

Maya  stock  and  Mexican  languages.  Berendt  (5  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  179)  compares  Maya  with  Nahuatl,  Otomi,  Natchez,  Cak- 
chiquel,  etc.  Palma  y  Palma  (1901,  p.  421-449)  has  some  reflecr 
tions  on  Nahuatl  and  Maya.    See  also  Adam  (1878a)  below. 

Maya  stock  and  North  American  Languages.  Adam  (1878)  com- 
pares Dakota,  Cree  and  some  other  North  American  stocks  with 
Maya  and  Quiche  and  Adam  (1878a)  treats  briefly  of  Dakota, 
Nahuatl,  Maya,  Quiche,  as  well  as  two  South  American  stocks. 

Maya  stock  and  South  American  Languages.  See  Adam  (1878a) 
above. 

PHONETICS 

The  phonetics  of  the  Maya  language  are  discussed  at  some 
length  in  the  grammar  of  Beltran  (1746)  and  in  several  of  the  other 
grammars.  His  list  of  the  sounds  is  used  by  Norman  (1843,  p.  242) 
and  the  latter  is  copied  in  turn  by  Spence  (1913,  p.  342).  Juan 
Molina  (1896,  p.  335)  also  quotes  from  Beltran.  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  (1864,  p.  322,  note),  followed  by  Bollaert  (1866,  p.  50- 
51)  quote  Beltran  on  the  alphabet.  The  Analytical  Alphabet  of 
Berendt  (1869)  and  Berendt  (5  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  179,  §  1)  together 
with  Stoll  (1884,  p.  39-44)  give  good  discussions  of  the  phonetics 
of  the  whole  group  of  Maya  languages.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1880a, 
p.  91-95:  1893)  l  has  some  words  on  the  pronunciation.  Anon. 
(2,  ff.  9-11)  treats  of  the  sounds  in  Maya.  Perez  (1842a)  has  left 
some  remarks  on  the  various  sounds  and  letters  adopted  for  these 
sounds  as  a  preliminary  notice  to  his  manuscript  "  Codex  Perez  " 
in  the  library  of  the  New  York  Historical  Society.  These  notes 
were  used  by  Gallatin  (1845,  p.  252).  Justo  Sierra  (1842-45)  dis- 
cusses the  sounds  in  Maya.  Gates  (3)  has  a  paper  in  manuscript 
regarding  the  pronunciation  with  an  alphabet  which  he  prefers  in 
writing  Maya  and  he  describes  (Gates,  1920,  p.  611-613)  very 
carefully  the  phonetic  system  of  the  language.  Tozzer  (1907, 
p.  xxiii:  1910,  p.  277)  gives  a  key  to  the  pronunciation  of  the 
Maya  Sounds. 

1  This  work  introduces  the  series  of  manuscript  vocabularies  from  the  dif- 
ferent towns  in  Yucatan  described  on  p.  293. 


VOCABULARIES  169 

VOCABULARIES 

Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1881;  ed.  1883,  p.  123),  quoted  by  Brinton 
(1882,  p.  72),  states  that  seventeen  dictionaries  of  the  language 
have  been  written.  This  number  should  be  increased  if  we  include 
all  the  missing  Maya  vocabularies. 

XVI  Century.  Villalpando  (1571)  holds  the  place  of  priority 
regarding  the  authorship  of  a  Maya  dictionary  as  he  does  that  of 
a  grammar.  His  dictionary  was  published  in  Mexico  in  1571.1 
This  work  is  probably  based  upon  the  vocabulary  contained  in  his 
Arte  (§  1)  which  is  missing. 

Solana  (1580),  a  Franciscan  and  companion  of  Landa,  is  another 
author  of  a  dictionary  in  this  century.  This  is  in  manuscript  and  is 
probably  in  the  library  of  The  H  ispanic  Society  of  America  in  New 
York.2  Mention  should  also  be  made  here  of  a  short  collection  of 
Maya  words  given  by  Oviedo  (1535;  ed.  1851-55,  v.  4,  p.  593- 
607),  also  in  Berendt,  (1868d,  v.  1,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-11)  and 
Berendt  (6  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  180).  The  Maya  words  in  Landa  (1864) 
have  been  collected  and  translated  by  Bowditch  (1). 

Another  dictionary  of  this  century  is  that  by  Gaspar  Antonio 
Xiu  (§  l).3  He  was  a  Maya  Indian  and  related  to  the  so-called 
royal  family  of  the  Tutul  Xius,  one  of  the  two  reigning  families 
of  Mayapan.  The  manuscript  is  missing  but  it  is  dated  toward  the 
close  of  the  century  as  he  is  known  to  have  been  receiving  a  pension 
from  the  Spanish  Government  in  1593  and  1599.4 

1  Brinton  (1882,  o.  74)  states  that  one  copy  at  least  is  in  existence. 

2  I  have  been  unable  to  verify  this  point.  For  bibliographical  purposes 
several  works  of  Solana  are  listed  in  the  bibliography  although  they  do  not 
appear  to  touch  upon  the  Maya  language,  Solana  (§3),  (§4),  (§5),  (§6). 
Najera  (1)  should  be  noted  here,  The  work  of  Cardenas  (1639),  although 
belonging  to  the  next  century,  may  be  mentioned  as  being  in  the  same  class. 

3  In  the  list  of  missing  authorities  I  have  also  placed  another  work  by  Xiu 
(1582)  although  it  probably  has  little  to  do  with  Maya  linguistics.  See  Carrillo 
y  Ancona,  1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  137-138. 

4  A  description  of  his  work  is  given  in  the  Relation  de  Quinacama  (Coleccion 
de  Documentor  Ineditos,  v.  11,  p.  264).  Juan  Martinez  writes  personally  as 
follows,  "Antonio  Xiu  helped  everybody  in  his  work.  He  never  wrote  a  vo- 
cabulary :  he  was  not  a  scholar  but  an  interpreter  of  the  government  and  had 
access  to  the  library  of  the  Franciscan  Convent  in  Merida." 


170  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Another  companion  of  Landa  was  Ciudad  Real.  He  came  to 
America  in  1573  and  died  in  1617.  He  is  the  author  of  several 
works  on  the  Maya  language.  His  Gran  Diccionario  6  Calepino 
(Ciudad  Real,  §  1)  was  prepared  in  two  copies  neither  of  which  has 
been  found.1  He  is  said  to  have  taken  forty  years  to  write  this. 
Juan  Martinez  Hernandez  identifies  the  Motul  dictionary  as  this 
missing  work.  There  is  probably  another  dictionary  (Ciudad  Real, 
§  2)  distinct  from  the  Calepino.2  Cogolludo  (1688,  p.  513)  writes 
of  Ciudad  Real,  "  Aprendid  el  idioma  de  estos  Indios  con  tanta  per- 
fection quefue  el  mayor  Maestro  de  el  que  ha  tenido  esta  tierra.  Como 
tal  predico,  enseno  y  escribid  Sermones  de  Santos  .  .  .  no  solo  hizo 
Vocabularios,  que  el  uno  empiega  con  la  lengua  Castellana,  y  el  otro  con 
la  de  los  Indios;  pero  compuso  una  obra  tan  insigne,  que  por  su 
grandeza  se  llamo  Calepino  de  la  lengua  Mayo  6  Yucaiheca." 

The  Motul  Dictionary,  the  most  famous  of  all  the  Maya  extant 
dictionaries,  probably  goes  back  to  the  last  quarter  of  the  xvi 
century.3  A  copy  of  this  manuscript  is  now  in  the  John  Carter 
Brown  Library  'at  Providence,  Rhode  Island.  It  is  called  the 
Motul  Dictionary  as  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  the  first  part 
was  written  at  the  Convent  of  Motul.  It  is  probably  a  copy  of  an 
earlier  manuscript.  It  is  impossible  to  determine  the  exact  date  of 
the  original  but  the  author  speaks  of  a  comet  which  he  saw  in  1577 
and  "  gives  other  evidence  that  he  was  writing  in  the  first  genera- 
tion after  the  Conquest."  4  The  present  copy  seems  to  have  been 
made  about  the  close  of  the  xvi  century.   It  consists  of  two  parts : — 

1  According  to  Nicolas  Antonio  (1672)  who  copied  from  Lizana  (1633,  ed. 
1893,  p.  100),  one  copy  remained  in  Yucatan  and  the  other  was  in  the  library 
of  the  Duque  del  Infantado  in  Spain.  Brinton  (1897,  p.  185)  tried  to  trace  this 
library  in  1888  and  again  in  1893.  Some  volumes  were  said  to  have  gone  to 
the  Real  Academia  de  Historia  and  the  bulk  of  the  collection  passed  to  the 
Duke  de  Osuna  and  was  sold  by  him  to  the  Biblioteca  Nacional  in  Madrid. 
Inquiries  by  Brinton  in  both  these  institutions  met  with  failure. 

2  Berendt  (18686)  gives  an  otro  diccionario  in  his  list  of  missing  authorities. 
Mention  is  made  of  another  work  of  Ciudad  Real  (§  3)  although  it  evidently 
contained  nothing  on  the  language. 

3  Ciudad  Real  was  in  Yucatan  from  1573  to  1617  which  would  be  about  the 
time  this  manuscript  was  written. 

For  bibliographical  note,  see  Bartlett  (1865-71,  v.  1,  p.  226,  2d.  ed.  1875- 
82,  v.  1,  p.  446). 

4  Brinton  (1882,  p.  77:  1885a,  p.  32)  and  Berendt  (7,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  181) 
also  have  notes  on  the  Motul.  Bollaert  (1866,  p.  54,  note)  gives  information 
on  the  Motul  taken  from  Triibner  (1865,  p.  2). 


VOCABULARIES  171 

• 

Maya-Spanish  and  Spanish -Maya,  the  latter  section  containing 
approximately  11,180  words.  This  is  probably  later  in  date  than 
the  Maya-Spanish  part. 

Juan  Martinez  Hernandez  thinks  that  the  Motul  dictionary  is 
the  same  work  as  the  Calepino  of  Ciudad  Real  and  refers  to  Lizana 
(1633,  ed.  1893,  p.  99)  who  writes,  ''Antonio  de  Ciudad  Real  .  .  . 
hizo  Calepino  tan  grande,  que  son  seis  bolumenes  de  a  dozientos  pliegos 
cada  uno,  los  dos  de  su  letra  sacados  en  limpios,  y  los  borradores 
llenaua  dos  costales,  ocupo  Ifi  anos  en  esta  obra,  mas  es  tan  buena,  y 
de  tanto  peso,  y  utilidad,  que  no  tiene  otro  defeto  que  ser  para  esta 
tierra  solamente  que  a  correr  esta  lengua  en  todo  el  mundo  solas  estas 
obras  bastauan  para  dar  luz,  y  claridad  a  todos  los  que  la  aprendiessen, 
y  alii  hallassen  quantas  frasis,  y  propiedad  se  pueden  imaginar,  sin 
que  ayafaltade  una  palabra,  etcP 

Berendt  made  a  careful  copy  of  the  manuscript  in  1864  (B.  L.  C. 
No.  1)  with  extensive  corrections  and  additions  from  the  other 
Maya  dictionaries,  the  Ticul,  San  Francisco  and  Pio  Perez,  copies 
of  which  he  possessed.  In  the  preface  to  his  copy  he  writes,  "The 
first  part  of  the  Providence  MS.  is  written  in  an  extremely  small 
and  badly  arranged  hand.  It  shows  an  author  of  wide  instruction, 
with  scientific  mind,  and  profound  knowledge  of  the  Maya  language 
and  great  care  and  attention.  But  the  copyist  was  an  ignorant 
fellow  who  did  not  understand  what  he  was  writing,  not  even  in  the 
Spanish  part,  and  in  places  he  shows  terrible  negligence."  1  It  is 
needless  to  add  that  this  dictionary  is  indispensable  for  the  student 
who  is  working  on  the  translation  of  old  Maya  texts.  The  illustra- 
tive sentences  after  many  of  the  words  are  most  useful.  An  un- 
successful attempt  was  made  by  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology 
to  publish  this  manuscript.  A  portion  of  it  was  set  up  in  proof 
after  having  been  copied  by  Miss  Thomas.  These  proofs  were  being 
corrected  by  Sefior  Audomaro  Molina  at  the  time  of  his  death.2 
Mr.  William  Gates  is  now  at  work  on  an  edition  of  the  dictionary. 

Mention  should  be  made  here  of  the  Vocabulario  grande  Yucatano 
(Anon.  28)  mentioned  by  Cogolludo.3 

1  This  is  a  translation  from  the  Spanish  kindly  furnished  me  by  Miss  Adela 
Breton. 

2  For  the  work  of  Miss  Thomas  and  Audomaro  Molina,  see  Powell  (1900, 
p.  67-68),  McGee  (1901,  p.  79:  1902,  p.  53-54),  and  Holmes  (1903,  p.  41). 

3  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  135)  writes:  "La  primera  obra  que 
escribieron  los  indios  yucatecos  en  el  sigh  mismo  de  la  conquista,  usando  por 


172  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

XVII  Century.  Coronel  (§  1)  (circa  1620)  and  Vidales  (§  1) 
(circa  1644)  are  both  authors  of  vocabularies  which  are  missing. 
Coronel  (1620,  p.  107-110)  gives  the  names  of  the  different  parts  of 
the  body.  Valladolid  (§  3)  also  wrote  a  dictionary  according  to 
Ludewig  (1858,  p.  103).    This  may  be  questioned. 

The  San  Francisco  Dictionary  is  second  in  importance  to  the 
Motul  and  probably  belongs  about  the  middle  of  the  xvu  century. 
This  work  was  found  at  the  closing  of  the  Convent  of  San  Fran- 
cisco in  Merida  in  1820.  It  bears  no  date.  The  original  is  lost  but 
Perez  made  a  copy  (Perez,  11)  r  and  Berendt  made  a  copy  from  that 
of  Perez  in  1870  (B.  L.  C.  No.  3).  Meneses  (1)  made  a  partial 
copy.  Pio  Perez  considers  that  this  dictionary  is  older  than  the 
Ticul  vocabulary,  probably  by  half  a  century.  Berendt  would  place 
it  as  older  than  the  Motul,  basing  his  decision  on  some  antiquated 
forms  in  the  San  Francisco  which  appear  in  the  Motul  as  modern- 
ized.2 Mitre  (1909-11,  v.  3,  p.  71)  suggests  that  this  dictionary  may 
have  been  the  work  of  San  Buenaventura  (§  l).3    In  this  case  the 

primera  vez  de  los  caracteres  alfabeticos,  fue  un  gran  Vocabulario  historico  que,  no 
habiendose  nunca  llegado  d  imprimir,  parece  que  se  ha  perdido  por  complete.  Con- 
servdbase  todavia  a  mediados  del  siglo  diez  y  siete,  epoca  en  que  Fr.  Diego  Lopez  de 
Cogolludo  se  hallaba  en  esta  Peninsula,  pues  le  vio  y  aun  le  servio  para  componer 
su  Historia,  como  se  ve  por  estas  palabras  que  se  leen  en  el  cap.  V  del  lib.  IV,  con 
motivo  de  hablar  aquel  autor  del  nombre  que  los  antiguos  Mayas  daban  a  un  Dios 
unico  e  incorporeal 

1  From  Berendt  (1871a,  p.  60)  who  writes,  "  D.  Pio  ha  copiado  tambien  este 
Diccionario,  coordinando  la  parte  maya-espanola  por  el  mismo  metodo  que  habia 
empleado  en  su  trabajo  anterior,"  it  might  be  inferred  that  this  dictionary  was 
originally  arranged  in  a  Spanish-Maya  order  only  and  that  Perez  made  the 
Maya-Spanish  part  when  he  copied  it  in  the  same  way  as  he  had  done  with  the 
Ticul  Dictionary.  But  in  his  Preface  he  states  that  he  received  a  copy  of  a 
part  of  the  Maya-Spanish  portion  made  by  Meneses.  This  seems  to  show  that 
the  original  manuscript  was  in  Maya-Spanish  and  Spanish-Maya. 

The  Perez  copy  was  found  by  Martinez  Hernandez  among  papers  presented 
by  Mrs.  Ernesto  de  Regil  to  her  brother-in-law,  Jose  Rafael  de  Regil  of  Merida, 
who  is  the  present  owner. 

2  Berendt  in  the  Preface  to  his  copy  of  y.  2  of  the  Motul  Dictionary  (B.  L.  C. 
No.  1). 

3  Mitre  quotes  as  follows  from  Ancona  (1877,  p.  iv),  in  his  introduction  to 
Perez  (1866-77):  "En  1848,  el  mismo  Perez  encontro  en  casa  del  cura  Jos6 
Maria  Meneses,  un  diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya,  mds  voluminoso,  el  cual  habia 
sido  de  la  biblioteca  del  convento  grande  de  San  Francisco,  y  cuya  fecha  y  autor  se 
ignoraba  por  faltar  d  la  obra  sus  primeras  pdginas.  Parece  que  despu6s  de  una 
enfermedad  del  Sehor  Meneses  el  volumen  fue"  extraido  de  su  casa,  y  P6rez  pudo  al 


VOCABULARIES  173 

date  would  presumably  be  about  1684,  the  date  of  his  grammar.1 
Mitre  is  probably  incorrect  in  this  supposition.  The  manuscript 
is  in  two  parts,  Maya-Spanish  and  Spanish-Maya,  the  latter  por- 
tion containing  approximately  9160  words.  The  two  parts  do  not 
correspond,  each  portion  having  terms  and  acceptations  not  to  be 
found  in  the  other. 

The  Ticul  Dictionary  comes  at  the  end  of  the  xvn  century.  It 
bears  the  date  of  1690  and  was  found  in  1836  in  the  Convent  of 
Ticul.  The  original  manuscript  is  lost.  It  is  in  Spanish-Maya, 
and  contains  approximately  6190  words.  Pio  Perez  copied  it  in 
1836  and  made  a  second  copy  in  1847,2  together  with  a  list  of  the 
words  arranged  as  Maya-Spanish  (Perez,  1847a).  From  the  1847 
copy  and  the  Maya-Spanish  arrangement  Berendt  made  his  copy 
in  1870  (B.  L.  C.  No.  2).  The  manuscript,  not  including  the  Maya- 
Spanish  part,  was  published  under  the  name  of  Perez  (1898,  p.  124- 
196)  by  Ignacio  Peon  who  joined  it  to  the  vocabulary  of  Beltran's 
grammar.    The  two  works  do  not  correspond. 

Berendt  in  the  Preface  to  v.  2  of  his  copy  of  the  Motul  in  speak- 
ing of  the  Ticul  and  the  San  Francisco  vocabularies  writes,  "  The 
concordance  of  many  Spanish  terms  and  also  the  identical  co- 
ordination of  their  different  Maya  equivalents  and  other  par- 
ticulars repeated  in  the  last  two  works  (the  Ticul  and  the  San 
Francisco)  give  reason  to  believe  that  both  have  the  same  origin. 
But  as  each  contains  clauses  not  found  in  the  other,  presumably 
they  were  copies  corrected  and  amplified  by  different  authors  and 
at  different  periods." 

fin  conseguirlo  en  1855."  and  Mitre  adds  "Este  manuscrito  era  evidentemente  el 
del  diccionario  Maya  de  San  Buenaventura  que  segun  Beristain  y  Souza  se  con- 
servaba  en  el  convento  de  San  Francisco  de  Me"rida,  el  cual  servio  principalmente 
de  base  para  el  trabajo  de  P6rez  y  no  se  explica  sino  como  ocultacion  de  malafe,el 
que  se  hay  a  omitido  mencionar  siquiera  el  nombre  del  precursor  y  primer  codifica- 
dor  del  idioma  Maya." 

1  Berendt  (1868  b)  places  the  date  of  the  San  Buenaventura  dictionary  as 
1695. 

2  Pio  Perez  (1844)  mentions  this  Ticul  dictionary  as  having  been  found 
with  a  copy  of  Coronel's  grammar. 

Perez  (7,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  11,  p.  165-84)  writes  an  introduction  to  this  vo- 
cabulary.    See  Perez,  1898. 

Juan  Martinez  writes  personally  regarding  the  Ticul  as  follows,  "Said  vo- 
cabulary is  a  copy  from  an  older  work  with  innovations  of  small  importance, 
all  copied  from  a  pattern  or  old  vocabulary,  a  standard  authority  which  is  no 
other  than  the  work  of  Fray  Antonio  Ciudad  Real." 


174  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

San  Buenaventura  (§  1)  {circa  1684)  is  given  as  the  author  of  a 
large  dictionary  toward  the  end  of  this  century.1  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  (1)  mentions  this  vocabulary  and  the  vain  search  he  made 
for  it. 

XVIII  Century.  In  this  epoch  are  found  the  numerous  vocab- 
ularies of  Avendafio  all  of  which  are  missing:  —  a  dictionary  (§  2), 
a  short  dictionary  of  adverbs  (§3),  a  botanical  and  medical  dic- 
tionary (§  4),  and  a  list  of  proper  names  (§  5).2  A  single  leaf  of  a 
vocabulary,  probably  of  this  century  is  in  the  possession  of  Mr. 
Gates  (Anon.  5). 

Mention  should  be  made  here  of  the  various  vocabularies  in  the 
grammar  of  Beltran  (1746;  ed.  1859,  p.  209-241).  These  vocab- 
ularies are  given  in  the  present  copy  of  the  San  Francisco  diction- 
ary. The  Maya  words  with  their  meanings  as  given  by  Beltran 
are  all  collected  and  published  by  Perez  (1898,  p.  1-101). 

XIX  Century.  The  next  vocabulary  in  point  of  time  is  that 
of  Baezo  (1832),  of  words  in  the  dialect  of  Peten,  Guatemala.3 
Along  with  this  should  go  the  dialect  collected  at  Sacluk,  Peten, 
by  Berendt  (1866-67)  and  republished  with  English  translation  by 
Means,  1917,  p.  188-191.  Norman  (1843,  p.  255-263)  gives  an 
English-Maya  vocabulary  which  he  may  have  collected  during  his 
sojourn  in  Yucatan. 

Henderson  (1859-66)  has  left  a  manuscript  of  six  volumes, 
averaging  250  pages  each,  of  a  dictionary  of  the  dialect  spoken  in 
the  District  of  Bacalar.  This  is  in  the  collection  of  manuscripts 
of  the  Bureau  of  Ethnology,  Washington.4  A  dictionary  by  King- 
don  (§  2)  is  reported  in  the  library  of  the  American  Bible  Society 
of  New  York.    No  trace  of  this  can  be  found. 

Perez  was  the  author  of  several  manuscript  vocabularies.  He 
started  with  the  Maya  words  in  Beltran's  Arte  (1746).  He  ampli- 
fied this  with  the  words  in  Beltran's  Doctrina  (1740)  and  Sermons 

1  See  note  3  on  p.  172-173. 

2  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1882,  p.  125)  places  these  works  among  those  written 
in  the  xvii  Century. 

3  Ludewig  (1858,  p.  102)  mentions  a  work  by  Malte-Brun  (1824)  as  con- 
taining a  Maya  vocabulary.  I  have  been  unable  to  find  this  book.  It  has  been 
entered  in  the  Bibliography  under  C.  Malte-Brun. 

4  See  Berendt  (1867,  p.  420)  and  Anon  (1900)  for  references  to  this  work. 


VOCABULARIES  175 

(1740a)  and  Dominguez  (1758).  In  1836  he  obtained  possession  of 
the  Ticul  dictionary  which  he  copied  and  with  this  he  produced  a 
two  volume  work  (Perez,  1838).  He  treated  these  manuscripts 
as  rough  drafts  for  future  revision.  In  the  same  year  there  is  an 
account  of  another  manuscript  vocabulary  (Perez,  1838a).  It  is 
impossible  to  know  whether  one  of  these  various  works  is  that 
(Perez,  1842b)  noted  in  Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  278)  who  writes 
that  Perez  gave  him  a  vocabulary  in  manuscript  containing  more 
than  four  thousand  words  in  Maya.  The  manuscript  of  this  is  in 
the  library  of  the  New  York  Historical  Society. 

Perez  (1845)  left  another  manuscript  containing  material  for  a 
dictionary.  This  was  presented  by  his  niece  to  Dr.  Berendt  and 
is  referred  to  by  Berendt  (1871a,  p.  5).  It  is  now  in  the  Berendt 
Linguistic  Collection  (No.  5).  It  contains  several  hundred  words 
not  in  Perez  (1866-77).  A  partial  copy  was  made  by  Berendt 
when  the  manuscript  was  still  in  the  possession  of  Perez.  The 
latter  copied  the  Ticul  again  (Perez,  1847).  In  this  same  year  he 
made  a  Maya-Spanish  arrangement  of  the  Ticul  (Perez,  1847a). 

The  Perez  Dictionary  (1866-77),  written  as  far  as  the  word 
ulchahal  by  Perez,  down  to  ven  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  and  completed 
by  Berendt,  is  the  largest  dictionary  at  present  in  print.1  It  con- 
tains about  20,000  words  and  is  Maya-Spanish  only.  As  noted 
above,  Perez  used  Beltran  (1746)  in  preparing  the  first  drafts  of  his 
dictionaries  together  with  Beltran's  sermons  and  Doctrina.  Later 
he  added  the  Ticul  material.  Finally  he  found  the  San  Francisco 
and  began  the  work  all  over  again  omitting,  as  antiquated,  the 
examples  of  Maya  construction.  The  work  does  not  give  the  parts 
of  the  verbs  and  it  is  not  always  useful  in  explaining  many  of  the 
old  terms.  The  Ticul  is  much  better  in  this  respect.  Brinton  (1882, 
p.  75)  rightly  complains  "  that  it  gives  very  few  examples  of  idioms 
or  phrases  showing  the  uses  of  words  and  the  construction  of 
sentences."  Breton  (1919)  gives  a  few  relationship  terms  from 
Perez. 

The  second  dictionary  of  Perez  (1898)  was  probably  written  be- 
fore that  of  1866-77  and  it  is  much  better  for  use  in  translating 
the  old  documents.  It  contains  the  Ticul  Dictionary  (p.  124-296) 
mention  of  which  has  already  been  made. 

1  Gatschet  (1879)  has  a  note  on  this  dictionary.  Gatschet  ^1883)  again  dis- 
cusses this  work  together  with  that  of  Brinton  (1882). 


176  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

The  two  vocabularies  of  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1864,  p.  480- 
506  and  1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  123-462)  are  both  compilations  from 
various  sources :  Beltran  and  San  Buenaventura,  Cogolludo,  Landa 
Perez,  Solis  y  Rosales,  possibly  the  Motul,  and  other  writers. 
Neither  dictionary  is  of  any  great  value.1  Juan  Martinez  owns  an 
annotated  copy  of  a  Brasseur  vocabulary  made  by  Berendt  which 
formerly  belonged  to  Rodolfo  G.  Canton. 

De  Rosny  (1875,  p.  94-118;  ed.  1904,  p.  133-166)  has  published 
selections  from  the  vocabulary  in  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869- 
70).  The  latter  (1857-59,  v.  1,  p.  lxxxix)  mentions  a  vocabulary 
(Anon,  27)  of  2000  words  in  Maya,  Spanish  and  English.  I  have 
been  unable  to  identify  this. 

Waldeck  (1838,  p.  79-90,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  41-1)  has  pub- 
lished a  short  list  of  words  in  Spanish,  French,  and  Maya  and 
(1838,  p.  29-33,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-3)  he  gives  the  Maya 
names  of  many  of  the  pueblos.  Solis  y  Rosales  (1870)  furnished 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  with  a  manuscript  vocabulary. 

Berendt  has  left  numerous  vocabularies  in  manuscript :  —  one  in 
the  collection  of  manuscripts  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology 
at  Washington  (Berendt,  2),  a  list  of  proper  names  (Berendt,  4), 
and  a  large  number  of  comparative  vocabularies  which  will  be 
discussed  later. 

Donde  (1876,  p.  229-241)  gives  a  list  of  plants  with  their  Maya 
names  prepared  by  Thomas  Aznar  Barbachano. 

Brinton  (1882,  p.  261-279)  gives  the  Maya^English  vocabulary  of 
words  found  in  his  selections  from  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam. 
He  published  the  Maya  linear  measurements  in  1885b  (p.  434-439) 
and  another  short  vocabulary  in  1894  (p.  143-146) .2 

Charencey  (1883a)  has  a  French-Maya  vocabulary  of  about  four 
thousand  words  and  Charencey  (1891,  p.  247-301)  has  a  Maya- 
French  dictionary  of  about  eighteen  hundred  words.  DeRosny 
(1887;  ed.  1888,  p.  71—85)  gives  a  list  of  Maya  divinities. 

1  Compare  Brinton  (1882,  p.  75)  who  writes,  "I  can  say  little  in  praise  of 
the  Vocabulaire  Maya-Francais-Espanole,  compiled  by  the  Abbe  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  (1869-70).  ...  It  contains  about  ten  thousand  words  but  many 
of  these  are  drawn  from  doubtful  sources,  and  are  incorrectly  given;  while  the 
derivations  and  analogies  proposed  are  of  a  character  unknown  to  the  science 
of  language." 

2  LePlongeon  (1896,  p.  202-207)  has  much  to  say  regarding  a  controversy 
with  Brinton  on  the  linear  measurements  of  the  Mayas. 


VOCABULARIES  177 

The  Peabody  Museum  owns  a  manuscript  vocabulary  of  250 
words  from  each  of  the  following  towns  in  Yucatan:  Peto  (Valez, 
1893),  Sotuta  (Anon,  1893),  Valladolid  (Manzano,  1893),  and 
Tizimin  (Rejon  Espinola,  1893).  These  were  probably  collected  by 
Carrillo  y  Ancona  as  there  is  an  introduction  on  the  Maya  pro- 
nunciation by  him.  A  digest  of  these  vocabularies  is  given  in  Ap- 
pendix IV  (p.  293). 

Zavala  (1898)  published  a  short  Spanish -Maya  vocabulary. 
Palma  y  Palma  (1901,  p.  258-269,  307-326)  writes  instructively  on 
the  wealth  of  material  in  the  Maya  vocabularies.  In  the  Coleccion 
de  Documentos  Tneditos  (1898-1900,  v.  11,  p.  435-436)  there  is  a 
short  list  of  Maya  words  to  be  found  in  the  text. 

Sapper  {circa  1895)  collected  a  small  vocabulary  from  San  Luis, 
Peten,  which  he  was  good  enough  to  give  the  author.  Millspaugh 
(1895-98:  1900:  1903-04)  has  works  on  the  flora  of  Yucatan  which 
give  many  of  the  native  names  of  plants.  Pacheco  Cruz  (1919) 
has  a  work  on  the  fauna  of  Yucatan  giving  the  Maya  names. 
Mention  should  also  be  made  here  of  the  following  anonymous 
vocabularies :  —  that  in  the  Libreria  de  San  Gregorio  de  Mexico 
(Anon,  25,  after  Vifiaza,  No.  1134),  and  that  owned  by  Mr.  Gates 
(Anon,  26).  Starr  (1908,  p.  399-404)  gives  a  very  few  Maya  words 
in  his  glossary. 

Day  and  Month  Names.  There  are  many  treatises  on  the 
meaning  of  the  names  of  the  days  and  months  in  the  Maya  year 
and  the  possible  correlation  of  this  meaning  with  the  forms  of  the 
hieroglyphs  for  these  days  and  months.  The  most  comprehensive 
of  these  discussions  are  those  by  Seler  (1888;  ed.  1902,  p.  448-503) 
and  by  Bowditch  (1910,  p.  263-265) .  The  latter  collates  the  mean- 
ings given  the  day  names  by  Perez,  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  Brin- 
ton,  Schellhas,  and  Tozzer.  Little  need  be  said  in  this  place  re- 
garding the  discussion  of  the  linguistic  meaning  of  the  Maya 
hieroglyphics  as  a  whole.  The  phonetic  character  of  the  Maya 
glyphs  is  discussed  by  Bowditch  (1910,  p.  254-258)  and  by  many 
other  authors.  There  is  a  long  series  of <  articles  dealing  with  the 
supposed  phonetic  transcription  of  series  of  glyphs.  These  are 
generally  of  no  value.1 

1  Eichhorn  (1896:  1905)  belongs  to  this  class.  Parisio  is  an  earlier  writer 
along  the  same  lines. 


178  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Comparative  Vocabularies.  Maya-Quiche  and  other  Maya 
dialects.  Galindo  (1834,  p.  63.  Copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-6)  gives 
a  few  words  in  Maya  and  Punctunc.  Berendt  (3)  wrote  a  manu- 
script composed  of  between  600  and  700  words  in  24  dialects  of  the 
Maya  stock.  This  formed  the  basis  for  Stoll  (1884).  Berendt  (5, 
in  B.  L.  C.  No.  179-6,  fol.  60,  64)  gives  comparative  lists  of  words 
in  Maya,  Putun,  Tzental,  Cakchiquel,  Chontal,  etc.  Squier  (1857, 
p.  179)  gives  a  few  words  in  Maya,  Mam,  Quiche,  and  Cakchiquel. 
Squier  (1858,  p.  552-553)  has  words  in  Maya,  Cakchiquel,  and 
from  Peten.  Berendt  (1867a,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  82)  has  marginal 
comparisons  in  Maya  and  Cakchiquel  with  Huastec  forms  in  his 
copy  of  the  dictionary  of  Tapia  Zenteno.  Rockstroh  (1878)  gives 
a  comparative  vocabulary  of  the  Maya  stock.  This  was  probably 
prepared  under  the  direction  of  Berendt.  Campbell  (1879,  p.  72- 
73)  gives  a  few  Maya  and  Quiche  words.1 

Stoll  (1884,  p.  46-70,  and  1886,  p.  301)  gives  comparative  lists 
of  words  of  many  of  the  Maya  dialects.2  Brigham  (1887,  p.  276) 
gives  selections  from  Stoll  and  Sapper  (1897,  p.  407-436)  improves 
on  Stoll.  Brinton  (1888,  p.  82-91)  gives  a  comparative  vocabulary 
of  Maya  dialects  and  reprints  Berendt  (1870a).  Starr  (1901-04) 
has  a  comparative  list  of  words  from  several  Maya  dialects  and 
Zoque  and  Chiapanec. 

Maya  and  Mexican  Languages.  Berendt  (1)  in  the  Bureau  of 
American  Ethnology,3  Berendt  (5,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  179,  fol.  58),  and 
Heller  (1853,  p.  387-388)  give  comparative  lists  of  words  in  Maya 
and  Nahuatl.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1872)  gives  many  of  the  Maya 
and  Nahuatl  words  used  in  Spanish.  Palma  y  Palma  (1901,  p. 
718-738)  has  the  following:  Voces  Aztecas  Castellanizadas  y  sus 
equivalentes  en  Maya,  and  Voces  Mayas  Castellanizadas.  Anon 
(1898)  has  a  short  word  list  in  Maya  and  Nahuatl.  Berendt  (5,  in 
B.  L.  C,  No.  179,  fol.  59)  has  a  vocabulary  in  Maya,  Nahuatl  and 
Otomi.  Gallatin  (1845,  p.  9-10,  298-304)  includes  Otomi,  Nahuatl, 
Huastec,  and  Maya  in  a  comparative  vocabulary.  Fuertes  (1)  has 
Zoque,    Zapotec,    Mixe,   and   Maya   words.     Ternaux-Compans 

1  Ordoflez  (1),  according  to  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1855-56,  p.  292),  has 
the  following:  Linguistique  du  Mexique  et  de  V '  Amerique  Centrale  (une  joule 
d 'etymologies  tzendales,  mayas,  itzoziles,  quichees,  azteques,  etc. 

1  See  Berendt  (3)  above. 

3  Pilling  (1879-80)  has  a  list  of  the  linguistic  manuscripts  in  the  library  of 
the  Bureau  of  Ethnology  at  Washington. 


VOCABULARIES  179 

(1840-41;  Maya  in  v.  88,  p.  5-37)  gives  a  comparative  list  of  words 
in  the  main  languages  of  Mexico.  Prichard  (1836-47,  v.  5,  p.  344) 
republishes  this.  Latham  (1862,  p.  755)  publishes  a  few  words  in 
Maya,  Huastec,  Nahuatl,  and  Otomi.  Ferraz  (1902,  p.  95)  has  a 
short  list  of  words  in  Maya,  Quiche,  and  Nahuatl. 

Maya  and  North  American  languages.  Adam  (1878)  has  a  com- 
parative vocabulary  of  Cree,  Chippewa,  Algonkin,  Dakota,  Hi- 
datsa,  Maya,  and  Quiche.  Berendt  (5,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  179,  fol.  62, 
63)  gives  words  in  Natchez,  Apalachee,  and  Maya.  Brinton  (1867) 
has  a  list  of  words  in  Natchez,  Huastec,  and  Maya. 

Maya,  South  American  Languages,  etc.  Adam  (1878a)  gives 
words  from  Dakota,  Nahuatl,  Chibcha,  Quechiia,  Quiche,  and 
Maya.  Douay  (1894)  has  a  comparative  list  of  words  in  Haitian, 
and  Maya.  Douay  (1900)  gives  words  in  Haitian,  Maya,  and 
Quiche,  and  Douay  (1),  in  Quechua  and  Maya.  Nuttall  (1901, 
p.  549-555)  gives  a  comparative  vocabulary  of  Maya,  Quechua, 
and  Nahuatl.  Schomburgk  (1848,  p.  236-237)  has  a  selection  of 
words  from  American  languages  and  from  the  languages  of  the 
Guianas. 

Maya  and  Old  World  Languages.  Comparative  vocabularies 
covering  a  wider  field  are  in  general  most  unsatisfactory.  They 
are  to  be  found  in  Hervas  y  Panduro  (1785,  Maya  p.  21,  41,  48,  121, 
Tab.  xlix,  1,  li  and  1787a,  Maya,  p.  161  et  seq.)  and  BaJbi  (1826; 
ed.  1835,  Maya,  Tab.  xli,  No.  676).  There  is  also  a  class  of  early 
works  of  no  present  value  which  give  the  equivalents  for  certain 
common  words  in  many  American  languages  for  comparison  with 
the  forms  in  European  or  Asiatic  languages.  A  few  Maya  words 
sometimes  appear  in  the  following  works:  Vater  (1810),  Klaproth 
(1824-28,  v.  2,  p.  28-45),  Merian  (1828,  p.  185-206)  after  Vater. 
C.  Malte-Brun  (1810-29,  p.  18-21),  Johnes  (1846),  Buschmann 
(1853),  and  Clarke  (1877).  Nuttall  (1901,  p.  563-575)  gives  a  list 
of  Maya  words  and  their  equivalents  in  languages  of  the  eastern 
continent. 

C.  Malte-Brun  (1810-29),  Latham  (1860,  p.  398),  Charencey 
(1871,  p.  106),  and  Platzmann  (1871)  give  comparative  list  of  words 
from  Chinese  and  other  Asiatic  languages  and  corresponding  words 
from  the  languages  of  America  including  Maya.  Campbell  (1879, 
p.  72-73)  compares  Maya  and  Polynesian.  Umery  (1863)  gives  a 
list  of  words  for  "  mother  "  in  many  languages  including  Maya. 


180  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Comparative  vocabularies  of  special  words.  Charencey  has  two 
papers  (1882;  Maya,  p.  28-30  and  1899,  Maya,  p.  117,  166-169) 
on  the  names  for  the  points  of  space  in  Maya  and  Quiche.  Charen- 
cey (1883b)  has  another  study  of  the  names  of  the  cardinal  points 
and  a  fourth  (1892)  on  the  names  of  the  metals  in  certain  Maya 
dialects.  Brinton  (1886;  Maya  p.  10-13)  treats  of  the  word  for 
love  in  some  American  languages. 

ETYMOLOGY  OF  PROPER  NAMES 

Yucatan.  There  has  been  much  discussion  regarding  the  deri- 
vation of  the  names  Yucatan  and  Maya.  There  is  hardly  an  early 
history  which  does  not  have  something  to  say  regarding  the  origin 
of  the  name  Yucatan.  Cortes  in  his  first  letter  (1852;  1866;  ed. 
1908,  v.  1,  p.  124-125),  BernalDiaz  (1632;  ed.  1908-16,  v.  1,  p.  32), 
Gomara  (1553,  cap.  52),  republished  in  Barcia  (1749,  v.  2),  Lizana 
(1633,  cap.  1),  Landa  (Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1864,  p.  6-8,  copied 
by  Malte-Brun  (1864,  p.  14-15),  Cogolludo  (1688,  p.  60-61),  Villa- 
gutierre  (1701,  p.  28),  all  discuss  the  question  of  the  origin  of  the 
word  Yucatan.  The  Perez  Codex  (Perez,  1842)  and  the  Chilam 
Balam  de  Chumayel  should  be  cited  here  as  they  contain  a  varia- 
tion in  the  name  given  to  Yucatan.1  Among  the  modern  authori- 
ties to  touch  upon  this  question  of  etymology  are :  Waldeck  (1838, 
p.  25),  Stephens  (1843,  v.  1,  p.  139-140),  Prescott  (1843,  Bk.  2, 
Chap.  1),  Ternaux-Compans  (1843,  p.  30-31),  Bollaert  (1866,  p. 
46),  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1868:  1878-82;  ed.  1883,  p.  133-141: 
1890),  Bancroft  (1874-76,  v.  5,  p.  614-615),  Ancona  (1881),  and 
Zuiiiga  (1). 

Maya.  The  best  discussion  of  the  derivation  of  the  name  Maya 
is  that  in  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1883a,  p.  632-634).  Brinton  (1882, 
p.  9-16),  Ancona  (1878-1905;  ed.  1889,  v.  1,  p.  44)  and  Rejon 
Garcia  (1905,  p.  5-17)  also  suggest  derivations.  Pimentel  (1860) 
discusses  the  words  Mayo  and  Maya. 

Miscellaneous.  Brinton  (1887)  discusses  the  origin  of  the 
Maya  words  used  in  Landa's  work.  Rovirosa  (1888)  and  Douay 
(1891)  mention  the  etymology  of  a  few  Maya  names.  Robelo 
(1902)  gives  the  Maya,  Nahuatl  and  Spanish  equivalents  of  some 

1  Compare  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1890,  p.  35-45. 


NUMERATION  181 

proper  names.  Rejon  Garcia  (1905,  p.  29-78;  1910)  presents  sev- 
eral derivations  which  are  in  most  cases  decidedly  doubtful  in 
origin. 

NUMERATION 

The  Maya  numeration  has  already  been  discussed  in  the  gram- 
matical portion  of  this  work.  I  mentioned  there  that  practically 
every  publication  on  the  numeration  of  the  Mayas  goes  back  to 
that  given  by  Beltran  (1746;  ed.  1859,  p.  195-208).  Even  modern 
works  published  in  Yucatan  seem  to  rely  in  general  upon  the  series 
of  numbers  given  by  Beltran.  No  attempt  is  made  here  to  list  the 
publications  which  give  the  Maya  system  of  numeration  as  a  part 
of  a  grammar  or  as  a  part  of  the  hieroglyphic  writing.1 

Maya  Dialect.  Galindo  (1832)  gives  the  numbers  from  1  to  10 
and  Waldeck  (1838,  p.  88,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42)  gives  them 
from  1  to  100,  both  of  which  series  were  probably  collected  by  the 
authors  themselves.  Baezo  (1832)  has  some  numbers  collected  at 
Peten.  Sivers  (1861,  p.  290-291)  offers  a  series  of  numbers  in 
Maya. 

Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  92-99)  is  the  first  to 
give  the  numeration  of  Beltran  in  extenso  with  a  French  transla- 
tion.2 Bancroft  (1874-76,  v.  2,  p.  753-754)  gives  the  numbers  from 
1  to  51  from  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg.  Orozco  y  Berra  (1880,  v.  1, 
p.  542,  559-569)  also  follows  the  same  second-hand  authority. 
Brinton  (1882,  p.  37-50),  Molina  y  Solis  (1896,  p.  316-320),  and 
Perez  (1898,  p.  113-120)  go  back  to  Beltran.  Pousse  (1886)  is  of 
little  value.  Nuttall  (1903)  gives  an  excellent  translation  of  the 
numeral  classifiers  of  Beltran  with  a  suggestion  regarding  their 
possible  presence  in  the  hieroglyphic  inscriptions.  This  list  of  suf- 
fixes with  additions  is  published  in  Appendix  III  (p.  290). 

Valez  (1893),  Anon  (1893),  Manzano  (1893),  and  Rejon  Espinola 
(1893)  give  several  numerals  collected  in  the  different  towns.3 

Comparative  Lists  of  Numbers.  There  is  a  large  number  of 
works  which  present,  more  or  less  extensively,  comparative  series 

1  Charencey  (1881),  for  example,  treats  of  the  numeration  by  means  of 
bars  and  dots  as  shown  in  the  hieroglyphic  writing. 

2  There  is  a  copy  of  the  Beltran  numeration  in  the  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-8. 

3  These  numbers  are  given  in  Appendix  IV,  p.  301. 


182  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

of  numbers  from  many  different  peoples.  Hervas  y  Panduro 
(1786;  Maya,  p.  110-111)  is  the  earliest  of  these  works.  The  best 
of  these  comparative  lists  is  that  of  Thomas  (1897-98)  which 
presents  a  good  discussion  of  the  numeral  systems  of  Mexico  and 
Central  America.  Other  works  on  numeration  covering  many  of 
the  languages  of  Middle  America  are  by  Ternaux-Compans  (1840- 
41,  p.  5-37,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-7),  followed  by  Prichard  (1836- 
47,  v.  5,  p.  344),  Gallatin  (1845,  p.  49-57,  Table  A),  followed  by 
Pott  (1847,  p.  93-96,  301),  and  Charencey  (1878,  p.  12).  Compara- 
tive lists  are  also  given  in  Berendt  (5,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  179-8).  Maya 
and  Aztec  numerals  are  given  by  Heller  (1853,  p.  386-388)  and 
Palma  y  Palma  (1901,  p.  447-449),  Maya,  Quiche,  and  Aztec  by 
de  Rosny  (1875a),  several  dialects  of  the  Maya  by  Charencey 
(1883b),  and  Maya  and  Quiche  alone  by  Charencey  (1880,  1882a). 

TEXTS 

There  is  a  large  mass  of  material  written  in  Maya.1  These  texts 
date  from  early  Spanish  times  and  continue  down  to  the  present. 
They  vary  in  value  for  linguistic  study  from  the  point  of  view  of 
the  time  in  which  they  were  written  and  also  from  the  point  of 
view  of  the  individual  author.  The  Books  of  Chilam  Balam  furnish 
the  most  profitable  study  of  early  Maya  texts.  There  are  often 
parallel  accounts  in  several  of  these  Books.  The  text,  however, 
is  corrupt  as  the  present  manuscripts  are  usually  copies  of  earlier 
documents  often  made  by  individuals  who  did  not  know  Maya. 
There  is  far  less  likelihood  of  corruption  in  the  legal  and  political 
documents,  some  of  which  are  extant.  The  Maya  texts  of  ser- 
mons, the  Catechism,  and  parts  of  the  Bible  vary  greatly  accord- 
ing to  the  ability  of  the  individual  translator.  They  are,  in  general, 
however,  rather  poorly  done  both  from  a  grammatical  and  a  lexical 
standpoint. 

BOOKS  OF  CHILAM  BALAM 

General.  The  fullest  description  of  these  Maya  texts  is  that 
by  Tozzer  (1917).  Other  descriptions  are  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona 
(1870:  ed.  1872,  p.  138-140),  Melgar  y  Serrano  (1873),  Brinton 
(1882,   p.  67-72),  quoted  by  Bowditch  (1910,   p.    1-3),  Brinton 

1  Part  II  contains  several  Maya  texts.  See  p.  Ill  for  the  discussion  of 
these  texts. 


BOOKS  OF  CHILAM  BALAM  183 

(1882b),  translated  into  Spanish  by  Aznar  (1882)  and  Troncoso 
(1883),  and  Brinton  (1883a).  Echano  (1758),  Castillo  (1866,  p. 
255-256),  Rivera  (1878,  p.  22-23),  Martinez  Alomia  (1906,  p.  9- 
10),  and  Beuchat  (1912,  p.  407-408)  are  among  those  giving  short 
accounts  of  these  Books. 

Before  considering  the  bibliographical  details  of  the  separate 
texts  it  may  be  well  to  dwell  for  a  moment  on  several  collections 
which  contain  abundant  material  for  the  study  of  the  Books  of 
Chilam  Balam.  Up  to  a  few  years  ago,  for  the  proper  study  of  the 
manuscripts  one  had  to  depend  entirely  upon  the  Maya  Chronicles 
of  Brinton  (1882)  which  in  turn  was  based  upon  the  Berendt 
copies  of  manuscripts  collected,  for  the  most  part,  by  Pio  Perez 
(Berendt,  1868,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  49).  This  material  was  augmented 
by  another  volume  of  manuscript  material  in  the  possession  of  Pio 
Perez  and  copied  by  Berendt  (Perez,  2,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50). 

This  scarcity  of  texts  no  longer  holds  true.  In  addition  to  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  reproduction  of  the  original  of  the 
Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel  we  are  fortunate  in  having  the  Gates 
reproductions  of  the  originals  of  the  Tizimin,  Kaua,  Calkini,  Tekax, 
and  Nah,  Mr.  Gates  owning  the  last  two  manuscripts.  Gates  also 
owns  beautiful  hand  copies  of  the  Chumayel,  Tizimin,  Ixil,  Kaua, 
and  Calkini  which  he  has  reproduced. 

It  does  not  seem  necessary  in  this  paper  to  give  complete  refer- 
ences to  the  frequent  use  of  the  chronological  parts  of  the  Books 
of  Chilam  Balam  as  a  starting  point  in  the  attempt  to  correlate 
Maya  and  Christian  chronology.1  The  prophecies  contained  in 
these  manuscripts  are  considered  together. 

According  to  the  testimony  of  Landa,  Lizana,  Sanchez  Aguilar, 
Cogolludo  and  other  early  writers  many  of  these  manuscripts  were 
in  existence  in  the  xvi  century.  Several  are  reported  in  the  xvn 
century.  Most  of  the  manuscripts  now  known  were  made  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  xvm  century  and  were,  in  some  cases,  at  least, 
copies  of  earlier  documents. 

Brinton  (1882b)  states  that  there  are  still  in  existence  sixteen  of 
these  Books.    Martinez  Alomia  (1906,  p.  9)  gives  a  list  of  eleven. 

1  See  in  this  connection  Seler,  1892,  1895,  1895a;  Bowditch,  1901,  1901a; 
Martinez,  1907,  1909a,  1912,  1915,  1918;  and  Morley,  1910,  1911,  and  espe- 
cially 1920,  p.  464-539.  For  earlier  material  on  this  subject  which,  however,  is 
of  little  value,  see  Perez  2,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50  and  5,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-4. 


184  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

New  ones  are  appearing  at  infrequent  intervals.  Counting  the 
Mani  manuscripts  as  one,  fourteen  of  these  books  are  listed  here, 
four  of  which  are  known  only  by  name. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Mani.  The  original  of  the  Mani  manuscript 
is  probably  lost.  It  is  dated  not  later  than  1595.  Berendt  (1868d, 
v.  2,  p.  138-184  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-7)  copied  from  a  copy  by  Pio 
Perez  certain  parts  of  the  manuscript.  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2, 
p.  102-106  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-5)  presents  a  comparison,  probably 
from  the  pen  of  Perez,  of  the  Mani  description  of  the  calendar  with 
that  of  the  Kaua  manuscript.  Perez  (6),  (or  Berendt  1868d,  v. 
3,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-3)  compares  the  description  of  the  calendar 
of  the  Mani  with  that  of  the  Tizimin  and  the  Kaua  manuscripts. 
Perez  (2,  p.  48-49,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50-10)  has  an  entry,  Apuntes 
historiosdel  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani.  Juan  Molina  (1897,  p.  68-69) 
gives  a  paragraph  of  this  Maya  document  and  a  Spanish  trans- 
lation. 

Berendt  (Brinton,  1882;  p.  91)  speaks  of  four  Mani  manuscripts 
dated  1689,  1697,  1755,  and  1761  respectively.  A  portion  of  one 
of  them  was  given  by  Pio  Perez  to  Stephens.  It  is  well,  therefore, 
to  distinguish  between  the  Mani  manuscript  proper  and  that  por- 
tion given  to  Stephens  which  is  usually  called  the  "  Perez  Codex." 
A  part  of  the  Mani  manuscript  entitled  Historia  de  la  Doncella 
Teodora  is  given  in  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  p.  225-239,  copy  in 
B.  L.  C.  No.  43-9).  The  Kaua  has  the  same  story.  Perez  (2, 
p.  31-37,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50-3)  writes,  "  La  historia  que  sigue 
se  halla  inter calada  entre  esta  multitud  de  predicciones  que  se  copiai  on 
y  tradujeron  de  los  antiguos  almanaques  espanoles.11 

Perez  Codex  {Lai  u  tzolan  katun).  This  is  probably  the  most 
widely  known  example  of  Maya  writing.  It  gives  an  outline  of 
Maya  history  from  the  time  the  Mayas  set  out  from  the  south  to 
travel  northward  down  to  and  including  the  arrival  of  the  Span- 
iards. It  is  a  part  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani  and  was  copied 
by  Pio  Perez  from  one  of  the  four  books  of  Mani.  Perez  translated 
the  Maya  into  Spanish  and  wrote  an  extended  commentary  on  the 
Maya  text.  The  whole  work  was  entitled,  Traduccion  y  juicio 
critico  de  un  manuscrito  en  lengua  maya  que  trata  de  las  principales 
epocas  de  la  historia  en  esta  peninsula  ante  a  s'u  conquista.  Para  el 
Sn.  D.  Juan  L.  Stephens  su  amigo  Juan  Pio  Perez,  Peto,  5  de  Abril 


BOOKS  OF  CHILAM  BALAM  185 

de  184-2.  As  indicated  in  the  title,  Perez  gave  the  manuscript  to 
Stephens.1  Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  465-469)  published  an  English 
translation  with  the  Maya  text  but  refrained  from  printing  some 
of  the  comments  made  by  Perez.  He  omitted  the  parts  headed 
Correction  cronologia  de  manuscrito  and  Recapitulation.  The 
Stephens  copy  of  the  Perez  manuscript  is  now  in  the  library  of  the 
New  York  Historical  Society  in  New  York. 

The  original  Perez  Codex  was  owned  by  Carlos  Peon  who  loaned 
it  to  Bishop  Carrillo  y  Ancona.  The  latter  (1868:  1870:  1878-82; 
ed.  1883,  p.  48-64)  printed  the  entire  manuscript  except  the  Maya 
text  and  the  Resumen  at  the  end.  This  feature  is  given  in  English 
in  Stephens  (p.  468-469)  .2 

Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-1)  made  a  copy  of  the 
Perez  Codex  in  the  possession  of  Carrillo  y  Ancona.  This  Ber- 
endt copy  was  used  by  Valentini  (1880,  p.  52-55)  who  printed  the 
Maya  text  and  translation  together  with  a  portion  of  the  com- 
ments of  Perez.  He  adds  a  good  discussion  of  his  own  regarding 
the  text.  Thomas  (1882,  p.  188-192)  follows  Valentini  in  printing 
the  text  and  translation.  Valentini  (1896)  also  mentions  this  Perez 
manuscript.  Perez  (6)  has  also  left  a  comparison  between  the 
Perez  Codex  and  similar  portions  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Tizimin 
and  the  Mani  proper.  Mayer  (1851,  v.  2,  p.  173-177)  refers  to  this 
manuscript. 

Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1855-56,  v.  51,  p.  208:  1857-59,  v.  2, 
p.  2,  note)  mentions  the  Stephens  edition  of  the  Perez  Codex  and 
he  (1864,  p.  420^129)  published  the  Maya  text  and  an  attempt  at 
a  new  translation  in  French.  He  took  his  text  from  Stephens  and 
his  translation  is  clearly  based  on  that  of  Stephens  as  he  did  not 
have  access  to  the  original  Spanish  translation.  Charencey  (1874) 
reprinted  the  whole  from  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg.  Bancroft  (1874- 
76,  v.  5,  p.  624-627)  follows  Stephens.  Ancona  (1878-1905;  ed. 
1889,  v.  1,  p.  382-384)  gives  the  Maya  text  only. 

1  See  Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  278-280),  where  he  tells  of  obtaining  it. 

2  The  only  difference  I  could  find  between  the  text  printed  by  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  and  the  Stephens  copy  is  that  in  the  latter  the  sub-title  is  Correction 
cronologia  de  manuscrito  instead  of  Juicio  analitico  del  manuscrito  as  it  is  in  the 
Carrillo  y  Ancona  original. 

Note  some  interesting  observations  on  Carrillo  y  Ancona  and  the  Mani 
manuscript  in  Troncoso,  1883,  notes  A.  and  H. 


186  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Brinton  (1882,  p.  89-135)  attempts  a  new  translation  of  the 
Maya  text  with  extended  comments  and  a  comparison  of  the 
translations  of  Perez,  and  of  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  with  his  own. 
Juan  Molina  (1896,  p.  x,  xlviii  et  seq.)  and  Seler  (1892)  quote 
sentences  from  the  Brinton  translation. 

Raynaud  (1891-92,  p.  145-149)  tries  to  improve  on  the  transla- 
tion of  Brinton.  Charencey  (1896,  p.  13-16)  endeavors  to  correct 
the  translation  of  a  paragraph  of  Brinton.  Seler  (1895)  gives  the 
text  and  translation  of  several  sentences  of  the  manuscript.  Palma 
y  Palma  (1901,  p.  750-753)  gives  the  Spanish  only  of  the  Perez 
manuscript.  Martinez  Hernandez  (1909)  has  made  the  last  and 
most  successful  attempt  to  translate  the  Maya  text. 

Perez:  Cronologia  antigua  de  Yucatan.  The  Perez  Codex  (Perez, 
1842)  and  the  Perez  (1843)  study  of  the  Cronologia  antigua  de  Yuca- 
tan are  sometimes  confused.1  This  latter  manuscript,  although 
founded  on  the  ancient  documents,  was  entirely  written  by  Pio 
Perez  and  has  very  little  to  do  with  the  Maya  language.  It  is  men- 
tioned here,  however,  to  make  a  complete  record  of  the  different 
works  of  Perez.2  A  copy  of  this  manuscript  was  given  by  Perez  to 
Stephens  who  published  it  in  an  English  translation  (Stephens, 
1843,  v.  1,  p.  434-459).3  Gallatin  (1845,  p.  104-114)  and  Valentini 
(1880)  give  practically  the  substance  of  the  entire  material  con- 
tained in  the  Stephens  text.  It  seems  evident  that  Stephens  did 
not  print  the  entire  manuscript  as  he  received  it  from  Perez  as  the 
second  copy  which  Perez  made  contains  much  more  material  than 
was  printed  by  Stephens.  This  second  copy  was  made  for  the 
Registro  Yucateco  (1846,  v.  3,  p.  281).  The  same  manuscript  was 
printed  in  the  Diccionario  Universal  de  Historia  y  Geographia, 
(1855,  v.  8,  Apendice,  Cronologia  Yucateca),  and  in  Castillo  (1866, 
p.  31-51).  This  second  copy  (4°,  14  ff.)  passed  into  the  hands  of 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  who  published  it  (1864,  p.  366-419)  with  a 

1  There  is  also  the  Codex  Peresiano,  a  pre-Columbian  manuscript,  which 
deals  with  the  hieroglyphic  writing  and  does  not,  therefore,  enter  into  this 
discussion. 

2  Other  material  on  the  chronology  by  Perez  may  be  mentioned  here :  — 
Perez  (3  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43,  5:  9  in  B.  L.  C). 

3  Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  117,  277-278)  tells  of  obtaining  this  manuscript 
from  Perez. 


BOOKS  OF  CHILAM  BALAM  187 

French  translation.  The  Stephens  copy  is  in  the  possession  of  the 
New  York  Historical  Society.1 

The  copy  made  for  the  Registro  Yucateco  and  published  by  Bras- 
seur  de  Bourbourg  cannot  be  located.  Pilling  states  that  he  saw 
what  may  have  been  this  manuscript  in  the  library  of  Pinart.  Many 
of  the  items  in  the  Pinart  library  were  purchased  from  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  and  later  these  passed  into  the  Bancroft  Library  now 
at  the  University  of  California.  I  could  find  no  trace  of  any  manu- 
script of  this  kind  in  the  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg-Pilling-Bancroft 
Library  at  Berkeley. 

The  Peabody  Museum  has  another  copy  (8°,  20  if.),  said  to  be 
from  the  library  of  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  which  follows  almost 
exactly  that  published  in  the  Registro  Yucateco. 

The  original  Perez  manuscript  of  his  Cronologia  passed  into  the 
possession  of  Carrillo  y  Ancona  along  with  the  other  Perez  ma- 
terial. Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1878-82;  ed.  1883,  p.  637-663)  published 
it.2  There  is  then  the  Carrillo  y  Ancona  original,  the  Stephens, 
and  the  Registro  Yucateco-Peabody  Museum  texts  all  differing 
slightly.  The  Carrillo  y  Ancona  version  is  the  most  complete  and 
has  one  passage  which  is  in  Stephens  and  not  in  the  Peabody 
Museum  text.  The  Peabody  version  follows  that  of  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  except  for  a  few  omissions  in  the  latter  and  the  passage 
referred  to  above.  The  Stephens  text  differs  in  many  places  both 
in  order  and  wording,  and  it  is  much  shorter  than  that  of  the  other 
two. 

Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  (1857-59,  v.  3,  p.  462  et  seq.),  Orozco  y 
Berra  (1864,  p.  103-108)  Bancroft  (1874-76,  v.  2,  759  et  seq.),  Short 
(1880,  439  et  seq.),  and  many  others  give  the  substance  of  these 
Perez  texts.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  142)  refers  to 
the  manuscripts  on  which  Perez  founded  his  Cronologia. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel.  This  manuscript  is  a  small 
quarto  of  107  written  pages  and  is  dated  about  1780.    The  name 

1  This  Society  also  has  the  original  Perez  manuscript  entitled  "  An  almanac, 
adjusted  according  to  the  chronological  calculation  of  the  ancient  Indians  of 
Yucatan,  for  the.  years  1841  and  1842."  Stephens  (1843,  v.  1,  p.  448-458) 
printed  this  in  an  English  translation.  This  article  is  not  included  in  the  Bras- 
seur de  Bourbourg-Peabody  Museum  manuscript. 

2  Carrillo  y  Ancona  gives  the  title,  Antigua  Cronologia  Yucateca  o  exposition 
sentilla  del  metodo  que  usaban  los  antiguos  habitantes  de  esta  Peninsula  de  Yuca- 
tan para  contar  y  computar  el  tiempo. 


188  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

of  D.  Juan  Jose  Hoil  with  the  date,  January  20,  1782,  appears  in 
the  manuscript.  It  is  probable  that  Hoil  was  the  one  who  com- 
piled the  text  except  for  a  few  insignificant  interpolations  from 
earlier  documents.  The  first  pages  have  been  lost.  The  original 
of  the  manuscript  was  owned  in  Merida.1  It  has  been  reproduced 
by  the  University  Museum  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania 
under  the  editorship  of  G.  B.  Gordon  (1913).  Teoberto  Maler  had 
previously  (1887)  printed  several  sets  of  photographs  of  this  man- 
uscript.2 Gates,  the  Peabody  Museum,  and  the  family  of  the  late 
Don  Audomaro  Molina  are  some  of  those  possessing  the  Maler 
photographs.  There  is  a  hand  copy  by  Berendt  (1868,  p.  1-74,  80, 
159-200,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  49).  Gates  owns  a  second  copy,  contained 
in  rT.  1-55  of  a  note-book,  which  has  been  reproduced  by  him. 
Portions  of  the  manuscript  are  given  by  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2, 
p.  25-36,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-2).  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed. 
1872,  p.  145-146)  gives  a  good  description  of  this  work. 

Brinton  (1882,  p.  152-185)  was  the  first  to  make  an  attempt  to 
translate  any  large  part  of  the  manuscript.  He  translated  those 
portions  relating  to  the  chronology.  Berendt  had  already  copied 
these  parts  from  copies  by  Pio  Perez  (Berendt,  1868d,  v.  2,  in 
B.  L.  C.  No.  43-2).  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1890,  p.  37-45)  gives  a 
portion  of  the  manuscript  containing  the  name  Yucalpeten  as 
given  to  Yucatan.  He  also  gives  in  facsimile  a  portion  of  p.  63 
(Gordon  edition).  Seler  (1895)  gives  the  text  and  translation  of  a 
small  part  of  the  manuscript.  Juan  Molina  (1896,  p.  xxxvii,  lviii, 
etc.)  gives  sentences  of  the  Maya  text  and  translation  from  the 
Brinton  work,  Raynaud  (1891-92,  p.  153-15?)  attempts  an  im- 
provement on  the  translation  of  Brinton.  Martinez  Hernandez 
(1909a:  1912:  1913)  has  made  successful  attempts  at  translating 
parts  of  the  manuscript.3  Martinez  has  a  translation  in  manuscript 

1  Morley  (1920,  p.  475)  writes  that  he  saw  the  original  manuscript  in  1913 
in  the  house  of  Ricardo  Figueroa  in  Merida.  Subsequently  it  was  removed  to 
the  Cepeda  library,  Merida.  When  Morley  revisited  Yucatan  in  1918  he  was 
told  that  it  had  disappeared  from  the  library  and  that  its  present  location  was 
unknown. 

2  Maler  (about  1887)  also  made  photographic  copies  of  the-Tizimin,  Calkini, 
and  Kaua  MSS.  Gates  possesses  a  complete  set  of  the  Maler  photographs 
which  he  obtained  from  Seler. 

3  The  text,  p.  77,  78  and  the  translation  of  Brinton  and  Martinez  are  given 
in  Part  II,  p.  130-135. 


BOOKS  OF  CHILAM  BALAM  189 

(1919)  of  p.  102  of  the  original.  The  text  of  a  part  of  p.  85  with 
translation  by  Gates  (1920b)  is  given  in  Morley  (1920,  p.  485). 
Roys  (1920)  has  a  translation  of  p.  60-62. 

The  prophecies  given  in  this  and  other  Chilam  Balam  Books  are 
described  in  another  place  (p.  192).  The  day  signs  as  shown  in 
the  original  manuscript  are  given  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1866,  p. 
38;  ed.  1871,  p.  257:  1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  144;  and  1882;  ed.  1883, 
(p.  250).  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1882;  ed.  1883,  p.  605-606)  Riva 
Palacio  (1887-89,  v.  i,  p.  456)  or  Chavero  (1887,  p.  456)  give 
the  Chumayel  map.  Brinton  (1882b;  ed.  1890,  p.  266)  also  gives 
the  drawings  of  the  day  signs.  The  Katun  wheel  from  the  Chuma- 
yel is  reproduced  by  Bowditch  (1910,  fig.  63). * 

Chilam  Balam  de  Tizimin.  This  manuscript  is  a  quarto  of  52 
pages  formerly  owned  by  Senor  Bicardo  Figueroa  of  Merida.  Like 
the  Chumayel  it  has  disappeared.  This  manuscript  has  been  called 
by  Carrillo  y  Ancona  the  Codice  Anonimo.  The  original  has  been 
reproduced  by  Gates.  Berendt  (1868,  p.  101-158  in  B.  L.  C.  No. 
49)  made  a  copy  from  the  original.  A  second  copy  (ff.  1-35  in  an 
8°  note-book)  is  owned  by  Gates  and  has  been  reproduced  by  him.2 
Perez  (6,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-3)  discusses  the  historical  and  chrono- 
logical portions  and  compares  them  with  similar  parts  of  the  Mani 
manuscript.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  146)  discusses 
this  document.  The  prophecies  of  the  Tizimin  are  treated  in 
another  place. 

Manuel  Luciano  Perez  (1870,  p.  102,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  49)  has  a 
short  letter  written  from  Tizimin  to  Carrillo  y  Ancona  regarding 
the  sending  of  the  manuscript  to  the  Bishop.3  The  first  publication 
of  any  portion  of  the  Tizimin  text  was  by  Brinton  (1882,  p.  136- 
151)  where  he  presents  a  translation  of  the  chronological  parts. 
Raynaud  (1891-92,  p.  149-152)  attempts  another  translation  of 
those  parts  given  by  Brinton.  Seler  (1895;  ed.  1902,  p.  580: 
1898;  ed.  1902,  p.  676)  gives  sentences  with  translation  from  this 
manuscript. 

1  Perez  (2,  p.  174-177  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50-31)  has  a  heading  Ruedas  crono- 
logicas  con  su  explication. 

2  See  Morley,  1920,  p.  470,  note. 

3  This  letter  is  discussed  with  quotations,  in  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1870;  ed. 
1872,  p.  146. 


190  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Chilam  Balam  de  Calkini.  This  is  a  quarto  manuscript  of  30 
pages  formerly  owned  by  Sefior  Ricardo  Figueroa.  It  has  disap- 
peared. The  manuscript  is  not  complete.  The  pages  of  the  orig- 
inal are  numbered  11-40.  There  is  a  Gates  reproduction  of  the 
original  and  Gates  also  owns  a  copy  (ff.  55-67  of  a  note-book) 
which  he  has  also  reproduced.  Martinez  Alomia  (1906,  p.  14-15) 
gives  a  description  of  this  manuscript.  Juan  Molina  y  Solis  (1896) 
also  mentions  it. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Ixil.  This  manuscript  was  also  owned  by 
Sefior  Ricardo  Figueroa  of  Merida.  There  is  no  reproduction  of 
the  original  of  this  manuscript.  Berendt  (1868,  p.  75-79,  97-100 
in  B.  L.  C.  No.  49)  made  a  copy.  Gates  also  has  another  copy 
(ff.  36-60  of  a  note-book)  which  has  been  reproduced  by  him. 
Perez  (2,  p.  174-177,  in  B.  L.  C.  50-31)  gives  the  Katun  wheels 
from  a  number  of  these  Chilam  Balam  Books.  That  from  the  Ixil 
has  been  reproduced  by  Thomas  (1881-82,  p.  60),  Carrillo  y  Ancona 
(1878-82,  ed.  1883,  p.  252),  Chavero  (1887,  p.  440)  or  Riva  Palacio 
(1887-89,  v.  1,  p.  440),  and  by  Bowditch  (1910,  figs.  61,  62).  The 
prophecies  contained  in  this  manuscript  are  compared  with  those 
from  the  Mani  in  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  p.  107-123,  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  43-6).  Perez  (8,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-2)  gives  a  part  of  this 
manuscript. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Oxkutzcab  (1689).  The  original  of  this 
manuscript  has  been  lost.  It  was  partially  copied  by  Pio  Perez 
and  his  copy,  in  turn,  copied  by  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  p.  185-224, 
in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-8).  These  copies  undoubtedly  refer  only  to  the 
chronological  portion  of  the  manuscript.  It  is  to  be  supposed  that 
there  were  other  parts  not  copied  by  Perez.  Carrillo  y  Ancona 
(1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  147)  mentions  this  document.  It  is  also  prob- 
ably referred  to  in  the  Registro  Yucateco  (v.  1,  p.  360.    Anon.  1845)  '.l 

Chilam  Balam  de  Kaua.  This  is  a  quarto  manuscript  con- 
taining 282  pages,  also  formerly  owned  by  Sefior  Ricardo  Figueroa 
and  now  in  the  Biblioteca  Cepeda  in  Merida.  Gates  has  repro- 
duced the  original.  There  is  a  partial  copy  by  Berendt  (1868, 
p.  81-92,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  49).    Gates  has  a  second  partial  copy  (to 

1  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  confuse  this  manuscript  with  the  Xiu  Chroni- 
cles, called  by  some  the  Cronica  de  Oxkutzcab. 


BOOKS  OF  CHILAM  BALAM  191 

p.  184  of  the  original  manuscript).  This  is  contained  in  a  note- 
book (ff.  61 — 150)  and  has  also  been  reproduced  by  him.  Parts  of 
this  manuscript  are  given  in  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  p.  87-101  in 
B.  L.  C.  No.  43-5).  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  1,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-13) 
has  the  multiplication  table  from  the  manuscript.  The  chronologi- 
cal portions  are  compared  with  corresponding  parts  of  the  Mani 
in  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  p.  102-106  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-5).  Brinton 
(1882b;  ed.  1890,  p.  270-271)  gives  the  day  signs  from  the  manu- 
script. These  are  copied  from  Brinton  by  Troncoso  (1883,  p.  105). 
Bowditch  (1910,  fig.  64)  gives  a  Katun  wheel  from  this  manuscript. 
This  manuscript  is  probably  the  same  as  the  Chilam  Balam  de 
Hocaba. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Nah.  This  is  a  quarto  manuscript  of  64 
pages,  owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced  by  him.  It  is  signed  by 
Jose  Maria  Nah  and  came  from  Teabo.  Mr.  Gates  has  called  it 
by  the  name  of  its  signer  rather  than  by  the  name  of  the  town  in 
which  it  was  found  as  there  are  already  two  collections  of  docu- 
ments bearing  the  name  of  this  town.  It  is  of  the  calendar  type 
and  similar,  in  general,  to  the  Kaua  manuscript.  There  are  entries 
in  a  later  hand  as  late  as  1871  and  1896. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Tekax.  This  manuscript  is  a  quarto  and 
consists  of  36  written  pages.  It  is  incomplete.  Gates  is  the  owner 
and  he  has  reproduced  the  manuscript.  It  contains  features  which 
place  it  in  the  same  class  as  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Kaua.  The 
usual  medical  recipes  and  a  current  calendar  of  the  good  and  bad 
days  are  to  be  found  in  the  manuscript. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Peto.  There  is  an  obscure  reference  to  the 
possible  existence  of  a  Chilam  Balam  Book  at  Peto.  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  (1878-82:  ed.  1883,  p.  592)  records  that  Juan  Pio  Perez 
writing  from  Peto  in  1840  states,  "  Literatura  quien  sabe  si  la 
tuvieron;  pero  sabian  escribir  con  precision.  Una  es  la  poesia  del 
pueblo  y  otra  la  del  sabio  y  sacerdote;  la  de  estos  no  llego  a  nosotros, 
6  serdn  muy  raros  los  ejemplos^ 

Chilam  Balam  de  Nabula,  Tihosuco,  Tixcocob,  and  Ho- 
caba. These  four  manuscripts  are  known  hardly  more  than  by 
name.  The  Nabula  has  an  account  of  an  epidemic  which  occurred 
in  1673.     Brinton  (1883)  refers  to  a  manuscript  from  Tihosuco 


192  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

which  he  used  in  preparing  his  article  on  "  The  folk-lore  of  Yuca- 
tan." Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  147-148)  and  Berendt 
tried  in  vain  to  find  the  Hocaba  manuscript.  This  latter  is  prob- 
ably the  same  as  the  Kaua  manuscript  which  formerly  belonged  to 
a  resident  in  Hocaba.  There  is  no  information  available  on  the 
Tixcocob  document. 

THE  PROPHECIES 

There  has  been-  a  great  deal  of  discussion  concerning  various  so- 
called  " Prophecies"  contained  in  several  of  the  Books  of  Chilam 
Balam.  These  prophecies  as  they  now  stand  clearly  foretell  the 
coming  of  Christianity  to  the  land.  The  natives  of  Haiti  told 
Columbus  of  similar  predictions  made  long  before  his  arrival.1  As 
Brinton  points  out  (1868,  p.  188)  these  prophecies  were  doubtless 
adapted  by  the  Spanish  to  proselytizing  purposes  but  they  seem 
fundamentally  to  have  been  native  accounts  of  the  return  of 
Kukulcan,  one  of  the  culture  heroes  of  the  Mayas,  and  correspond- 
ing to  Quetzalcouatl  of  the  Mexicans. 

Gomara,  Herrera,  Cogolludo,  Villagutierre  and  other  early  his- 
torians give  other  instances  of  the  prophecy  of  the  arrival  of  the 
white  race.2  Several  modern  authors  (Sierra,  1841)  3  have  tried  to 
prove  that  these  prophecies  were  pure  inventions  of  the  Spanish 
priests  to  give  a  supernatural  sanction  to  their  teachings.  There 
is  no  doubt  that  the  influence  of  Christian  teaching  is  seen  in 
several  of  these  documents.  But  the  fact  that  the  Mayas  and 
other  peoples  of  Latin  America  had  native  tales  of  the  return  of 
their  culture  heroes  is  proved  by.  the  way  the  Spanish  Conquerors 
were  first  received  by  the  natives  of  Mexico  and  Peru.  They  were 
considered  to  be  the  actual  deified  heroes  who  the  natives  had 
learned  were  to  return. 

Anon  (§  31)  is  a  discussion  of  the  second  return  of  the  Spaniards. 
Cogolludo  (1688,  lib.  2,  cap.  xiv)  writes  as  follows  in  connection 

1  Sahagun,  Historia  de  la  Nueva  Espana,  Lib.  xii,  Caps.  2,  3. 

2  Sanchez  de  Aguilar  (1639;  ed.  1892,  p.  95)  probably  refers  to  one  of 
these  prophecies. 

3  Vicente  Calero  is  often  mentioned  as  a  writer  with  Justo  Sierra  on  Maya 
subjects.  Pablo  Moreno  is  another  author  who  considered  the  Prophecies  the 
inventions  of  the  Spanish  priests.  Le  Plongeon  expressed  the  opinion  in  a  pri- 
vate letter  that  these  Prophecies  were  "  pious  frauds." 


THE  PROPHECIES  193 

with  this  work,  "  Sin  duda  se  rigid  por  un  librillo  escrito  de  mano, 
que  ay  en  el  idioma  de  los  Indios,  que  le  escribieron  los  de  muy  dentro 
de  la  tierra,  despues  de  su  conversion,  en  que  notaron  algunas  cosas 
de  aquellos  tiempos,  desde  la  segunda  venida  de  los  Espanoles,  y  algo 
de  las  guerras  referidas." 

The  prophecies  under  discussion  are  those  of  the  Maya  priests 
Napuc  Tun,  Ah  Kuil  Chel,  Ahau  Pech,  Natzin  Abun  Chan,  and 
Chilam  Balam.1 

The  first  authority  to  give  these  prophecies  was  Lizana  (1633, 
parte  2,  cap.  1;  ed.  1893,  p.  37-39).  He  gives  the  Maya  text  and 
a  translation  in  Spanish.  He  probably  obtained  the  Maya  from 
some  early  text  of  a  Chilam  Balam  Book.  It  was  evidently  not  one 
of  the  Balam  Books  known  at  the  present  time  as  the  text  differs 
in  several  places  from  that  in  any  of  the  versions  of  the  prophecies 
now  available.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  there  are  no  two 
copies  of  the  same  prophecy  exactly  alike.2  Cogolludo  (1688,  lib. 
2,  cap.  11)  gives  the  Spanish  of  the  five  prophecies  stating  that  he 
had  no  room  for  the  Maya.  The  Avendafio  manuscript  (§  6)  may 
have  been  an  account  of  these  prophecies.  Lizana's  translation 
and  text  were  published  by  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1857-59,  v.  2, 
603-606,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-9).  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg 
(1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  103-110)  attempts  next  a  French  translation  but 
gives  the  Maya  text  together  with  the  translation  of  Lizana  for 
comparison.  Castillo  (1866,  p.  256-257)  gives  the  Spanish  transla- 
tion from  Cogolludo  of  the  prophecy  of  Chilam  Balam.  Perez  (2, 
p.  65-74, 166-173,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50-13  and  No.  50-30)  has  some- 
thing on  these  parts  of  the  Balam  Books.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870; 
ed.  1872,  p.  142)  refers  to  the  text  of  Perez.  Brinton  (1868,  p.  188- 
189)  gives  an  English  translation  of  a  portion  of  the  prophecy  of 
Chilam  Balam  taken  from  the  Spanish  of  Lizana  and  of  Brasseur 
de  Bourbourg.  Troncoso  (1883,  p.  103,  109)  gives  a  few  lines  of 
this  prophecy  and  suggests  a  connection  between  the  meaning  and 
the  significance  of  the  engraving  in  Cogolludo.  Brinton  (1890a, 
p.  303)  gives  the  English  of  a  poem  by  the  Priest  Chilam. 

1  There  is  a  wide  variety  in  the  spelling  of  these  proper  names.  I  have  fol- 
lowed the  spelling  given  by  Lizana  for  the  most  part.  The  prophecy  of  Chilam 
Balam  as  shown  in  the  Chumayel  and  Tizimin  texts  and  in  Lizana  is  given 
with  translation  in  Part  II,  p.  120-130. 

2  Compare  in  this  respect  the  versions  given  on  p.  122  of  the  Chilam  Balam 
Prophecy. 


194  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2)  presents  the  version  of  the  prophecies  as 
given  in  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani  and  Ixil  (B.  L.  C.  No.  43-6, 
p.  107-132),  and  the  versions  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel 
and  again  that  of  Mani  (B.  L.  C.  No.  43-3,  p.  37-46).  As  noted 
above,  the  same  prophecy,  as  given  in  different  versions,  may  differ 
in  spelling  and  also  in  length.  Nicoli  (1870,  p.  511)  mentions  and 
discusses  the  prophecy  of  Napuc  Tun  but  gives  neither  text  nor 
translation.  Charencey  (1873)  gives  the  same  prophecy  with  the 
Maya  text,  the  translation  of  Lizana,  that  of  Brasseur  de  Bour- 
bourg  and  a  new  one  of  his  own  in  French.  De  Rosny  (1875,  p. 
85-93;  ed.  1904,  p.  120-123)  gives  the  Maya  text  and  his  own 
French  translation  with  comments  of  the  prophecies  of  Napuc 
Tun  and  Ah  Kuil  Chel.  He  also  gives  for  comparison  the  Spanish 
translation  of  Lizana  and  the  French  of  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg. 
Schultz-Sellack  (1879)  makes  a  study  of  the  words  for  east  and 
west  as  given  in  the  prophecies  of  Lizana. 

Orozco  y  Berra  (1880,  v.  1,  p.  71-73)  gives  the  Spanish  of  the 
prophecy  of  Napuc  Tun  and  portions  of  the  others.  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  (1878-82;  ed.  1883,  p.  526-532)  presents  a  new  translation 
in  Spanish  of  all  five  prophecies  with  the  Maya  text  as  foot-notes. 

Brinton  who  formerly  had  only  the  Lizana  version  for  study,  later 
came  into  possession  of  the  Berendt  Library  so  that  other  versions 
were  available.  Brinton  (1882,  p.  255-256)  gives  the  Maya  and 
English  translation  of  the  prophecy  of  Ahau  Pech.  Troncoso  (1883, 
p.  104)  reprints  this,  also  giving  the  Maya  of  the  Lizana  version. 
Brinton  (1882a,  p.  167,  237)  refers  to  the  Pech  prophecy  in  the 
Mani  manuscript  and  Brinton  (1882c,  p.  xxix)  gives  the  Maya  and 
English  translation  of  the  prophecy  of  Ah  Kuil  Chel  from  the 
Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel.  Charencey  (1876;  ed.  1883,  p.  141- 
150)  discusses  and  translates  the  same  prophecy.  Finally,  Brinton 
(1890a,  p.  302)  repeats  the  English  translation  of  Ahau  Pech. 
Rejon  Garcia  (1905a,  p.  78-84)  gives  a  partial  Spanish  translation 
of  the  prophecy  of  Ahau  Pech.  There  is  a  song  from  one  of  the 
Books  of  Chilam  Balam  given  by  Brinton  (1882,  p.  126-127). 
Charencey  (1875)  discusses  a  paragraph  from  one  of  the  prophecies 
and  Maclean  (1883,  p.  442,  note)  gives  an  English  translation  of 
one  of  them. 


MEDICAL  BOOKS  195 

MEDICAL  BOOKS 

Libros  del  Judio.  In  addition  to  the  medical  portions  of  the 
Books  of  Chilam  Balam  which  consider  the  symptoms  and  the 
cure  of  diseases  there  are  several  manuscripts  which  deal  exclu- 
sivefy  with  the  native  remedies.  These  have  been  classed  to- 
gether under  the  above  heading.  They  are  sometimes  called  "  The 
Book  of  the  Jew."  There  was  one  Ricardo  Ossado,  alias,  the  Jew, 
who  used  herbs  and  other  native  remedies  for  curing  disease  (see 
Ossado,  1834).  Brinton  (1882b;  ed.  1890,  p.  272-273)  andTozzer 
(1917,  p.  182)  describe  this  class  of  books. 

The  first  notice  of  a  manuscript  dealing  exclusively  with  medi- 
cine is  the  work  of  Vidales  (§  3)  of  the  xvn  century.  This  is  miss- 
ing. There  are  several  different  manuscripts  dealing  with  medi- 
cine. They  seem  to  date  from  the  end  of  the  xviii  up  to  the  middle 
of  the  xix  century.  These  manuscripts  include  the  Libro  del 
Judio  (Anon,  13)  of  the  Peabody  Museum,  described  with  extracts 
in  English  by  Alice  Le  Plongeon  (1879,  p.  92,  and  1889,  p.  15-17),1 
the  Libro  de  Medicina  (Anon.  15), 2  the  Libro  del  Judio  de  Sotuta, 
(Sotuta),3  and  Medicina  Maya  (Anon.  16),  all  three  of  which  are 
owned  by  Gates,  and  the  Cuaderno  de  Teabo  (Teabo.  Copy  in 
B.L.C.No.49). 

There  are  two  valuable  manuscripts  dealing  with  diseases  in 
Spanish.  These  are  the  Noticias  de  varios  plantas  (Anon.  19)  a 
manuscript  owned  by  Jose  Rafael  de  Regil  of  Merida,  and  El  libro 
de  los  Medicos  (Anon.  14),  a  manuscript  owned  by  Gates.  Mr. 
Gates  also  owns  another  manuscript  (Anon.  1820)  on  the  medicinal 
plants.  It  is  evidently  part  of  a  manuscript  of  considerable  size 
as  the  last  leaf  remaining  is  numbered  123.  It  contains  brief  de- 
scriptions of  plants  with  colored  sketches.4     The  most  valuable 

1  This  MS.  is  described  as  having  come  from  the  island  of  Las  Mujeres. 
Mr.  Gates  informs  me  that  a  physician  in  Acanceh  told  him  that  he  had  given 
the  MS.  to  the  Le  Plongeons. 

2  Gates  suggests  that  this  manuscript  is  very  valuable  as  a  supplement  to 
the  botanical  series  of  Millspaugh  (1895-98:    1900:   1903-04). 

3  The  Gates  reproduction  of  this  manuscript  shows  p.  1-26  written  in  one 
hand  followed  by  pages  numbered  17-26,  33-54  in  an  entirely  different  writ- 
ing.    There  are  evidently  two  separate  documents. 

4  A  note  in  Berendt's  hand  and  signed  by  his  initial  states  that  the  MS.  was 
given  to  him  by  Rodolfo  Canton  in  Vera  Cruz  in  1859. 


196  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

single  manuscript  dealing  with  this  subject  is  probably  that  of 
Perez  (4)  with  notes  and  additions  to  this  manuscript  by  Berendt 
(1870,  inB.  L.  C.  No.  45). 

Ritual  of  the  Bacabs.  This  is  a  most  important  Maya  man- 
uscript, owned  by  Gates,  of  46  medical  incantations.  Wilkins 
(1),  who  is  at  work  upon  a  translation  of  the  text,  regards  it  as  the 
oldest  Maya  to  which  we  have  access.  At  the  end  there  are  a  few 
pages  of  the  ordinary  medical  receipts  markedly  different  from  the 
main  part  of  the  work.  All  but  about  ten  pages  is  in  one  hand- 
writing. These  ten  pages  are  in  several  different  hands.  The 
only  mention  of  anything  Christian  or  Spanish  occurs  in  these 
pages.  Two  of  these  pages  are  on  the  back  of  a  printed  Indulgence 
of  1779.  Wilkins  considers  the  main  body  of  the  manuscript  of 
earlier  date.  A  report  and  preliminary  translation  of  one  chapter 
by  Wilkins  (1919)  was  read  by  Gates  at  the  Cambridge  meeting 
u^     (1919)  of  the  American  Anthropological  Association. 

THE  CATECHISM 

XVI  Century.  The  Catholic  Catechism  was  naturally  the  first 
book  to  be  translated  into  the  native  idioms  by  the  Spanish  priests. 
It  is  probable  that  Villalpando  (§  2)  stands  as  the  first  translator 
of  the  Catechism  into  Maya  as  he  does  regarding  the  authorship 
of  a  Maya  grammar  and  vocabulary.  This  would  have  been 
written  toward  the  middle  of  the  xvi  century. 

Sanchez  de  Aguilar  (1639;  ed.  1892,  p.  35)  writing  in  1613  states 
that  all  the  Indians  from  childhood  learned  and  knew  the  whole 
Catechism.  He  adds  that  the  Doctrina  was  translated  into  Maya 
admirably  by  Bishop  Landa  (§  2) .  This  was  probably  done  in  the 
third  quarter  of  the  century  as  Landa  died  in  1579. l  The  Noticias 
Sagrades  of  Solana  (§  2)  should  be  mentioned  here. 

XVII  Century.  Sanchez  de  Aguilar  (§  1),  born  in  Valladolid 
in  1555,  a  grandson  of  one  of  the  founders  of  Merida  and  a  Maya 
student  under  Gaspar  Antonio  Xiu,  wrote  a  Doctrina  in  Maya 
probably  toward  the  beginning  of  this  century.  He  carried  the 
manuscript  with  him  to  Madrid  in  1617  and  it  was  lost  on  the 

1  A  Doctrina  in  Maya  is  listed  under  the  name  of  Juan  Ciuz  (1571).  This 
is  probably  an  error.    Squier  (1861,  p.  29)  has  a  Huastec  Doctrina  by  Cruz. 


THE  CATECHISM  197 

journey.    It  is  said  that  a  copy  was  left  behind  in  Yucatan  in  the 
possession  of  the  Jesuits. 

At  about  the  same  time  Acevedo,  who  was  in  Yucatan  from 
1592  to  1624,  wrote  his  Instrucciones  catequisticas  (§  2)  in  Maya. 
This  is  missing.  The  Doctrina  of  Coronel  (1620a)  is  the  first  which 
has  come  down  to  us.  His  larger  work  Discursos  Predicables 
(1620b)  is  also  known,  three  copies  of  which  are  said  to  be  in 
existence,  one  owned  by  Gates,  another  in  Puebla,  and  the  third 
is  the  Pinart-Pilling  copy.  Coronel  (§  2)  is  also  the  author  of  a 
second  catechism  and,  according  to  Juan  de  San  Antonio  in  his 
Bibliotheca  Franciscana,  this  is  more  complete  than  that  of  1620a. 
The  manuscript  is  supposed  to  be  in  the  library  of  the  Colegio  de 
San  Buenaventura  in  Seville. 

XVIII  Century.  The  Doctrina  of  Beltran  (1740)  seems  to 
have  been  very  popular  as  it  has  had  several  editions,  the  last  of 
which  was  in  1895.  No  copy  of  the  first  edition  is  known.  Juan 
Martinez  owns  the  only  known  copy  of  the  edition  of  1816,  a 
product  of  the  first  printing  press  in  Yucatan.  Gates  owns  a 
Doctrina  in  manuscript  (Anon.  7)  of  this  century. 

XIX  Century.  Ruz  made  translations  of  the  following  works: 
a  Catechism  of  Abad  Fleuri  (Ruz  1822),  one  by  Ripalda  (1847), 
which  was  issued  in  another  edition  by  Charencey  (1892a),  an  ex- 
planation of  the  Doctrina  by  Placido  Rico  (Ruz  1847a),  and  an- 
other edition  of  the  Catechism  (1851).  Mention  is  also  made  by 
Carrillo  y  Ancona  of  still  another  Catechism  by  Ruz  (2).  Fletcher 
(1865a)  was  probably  the  author  of  a  translation  of  the  Catechism 
of  the  Methodist  Church.1  There  is  a  Doctrina  by  Audomaro 
Molina  (1905)  and  one  in  the  dialect  of  Peten  (Anon.  6  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  42-10,  B.L.C.). 

Los  Sacramentos.  Parts  of  the  Catechism  have  frequently 
been  translated  into  Maya.  The  Sacramentos  have  been  translated 
by  Valladolid  (§  1)  in  a  manuscript  of  the  xvn  century  which  is 

1  Brinton  (1900)  gives  the  author  as  Richard  Fletcher.  No  author's  name 
appears  on  the  title  page  but  on  the  Berendt  copy  that  of  Richard  Fletcher  is 
written  in.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1871,  p.  81)  and  Vifiaza  (1892,  §  551)  give 
the  author  as  Henderson.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (2)  definitely  establishes  the  fact 
that  Fletcher  was  the  author  of  this  and  other  works  ascribed  by  some  to 
Henderson. 


198  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

missing.  He  gave  the  Latin  and  Maya  text.  San  Buenaventura 
(1684,  fol.  39-41o6.)  gives  the  Forma  administrandi  infirmis  Sacra- 
mentum  Eucharistiae.  Gates  owns  a  manuscript  of  the  Pasion 
domini  (Anon.  20)  dating  from  the  end  of  the  xviii  century.  Ruz 
(1846)  in  his  Manual  Romano  gives  the  Sacramentos.  This  has 
been  republished  in  part  by  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70,  v.  2, 
p.  121-122). 

El  Viatico.  This  is  given  in  Maya  in  several  places  in  the 
Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  Nos.  42-12  (Anon.  11),  42-15 
(Anon.  18),  42-17  (Anon.  17),  as  well  as  in  Anon  (1897). 

Via  Sacra.  This  is  translated  by  Ruz  (1849)  from  the  Spanish 
of  Jose  de  Herrera  Villavicencio.  Nolasco  de  los  Reyes  (1869) 
also  translates  the  Via  Sacra  which  was  reissued  by  Madier  (1875). x 
The  manuscript  in  the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  42-17, 
should  be  noted  in  this  connection  (Anon,  17). 

Acto  de  Contrici6n.  This  is  given  in  Maya  by  Carrillo  y 
Ancona  (1866;  ed.  1883,  p.  565).  It  is  also  to  be  found  in  the 
Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  42-14  (Anon,  1). 

Confesi6n.  This  is  given  in  Maya  in  an  anonymous  manu- 
script (Anon,  1803)  collected  in  Campeche  by  Berendt  (B.  L.  C. 
No.  26).  I  saw  the  Confesion  in  Maya  in  Merida  in  1904  (Anon, 
9).  This  may  be  the  same  work  as  Baeza  (1883) 2  although  the 
titles  are  slightly  different.  Coronel  (§  3)  is  mentioned  as  having 
written  a  Confesionario  and  instructions  for  new  priests. 

Actos  de  Fe.     These  were  translated  into  Maya  by  Acosta 

(1851). 3 

Administration  of  the  Mass.  This  is  given  in  Maya  by 
Ruz  (1835)  from  the  Spanish  of  Luiz  Lanzi. 

Trinitate  Dei.  This  is  shown  in  Maya  in  an  incomplete  man- 
uscript owned  by  Gates  (Anon,  23). 

1  See  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  189-190). 

2  Wilkinson  (Anon,  1883)  gives  a  Doctrina  which  is  probably  the  same  as 
that  of  Baeza. 

3  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  189)  in  speaking  of  this  work, 
writes,  "No  hemos  podido  conseguir  ningun  manuscrito  del  Sr.  presditero  D.  Jose 
Antonio  Acosta;  pero  sabemos  con  certeza  que  dejo  varios,  y  entre  ellos  algunas 
colecciones  6  sermonarios." 


THE  BIBLE  199 

Lord's  Prayer.  In  addition  to  more  general  works  in  which 
prayers  are  given,  the  Lord's  Prayer  is  to  be  found  in  several  dif- 
ferent versions  in  many  places.  Hervas  y  Panduro  (1787,  p.  115- 
116)  gives  it  and  his  version  is  followed  by  Adelung  (1806-17,  v.  3, 
part  3,  p.  20-21).  Norman  (1843,  p.  68,  note),  Auer  (1844-47,  part 
2,  p.  571),  and  Anon  (1860)  give  the  same  prayer.  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  (1864,  p.  478-479)  gives  it  with  the  Creed  after  the  ver- 
sion by  Ruz.  Galindo  (1832)  also  gives  the  prayer  and  Creed. 
Berendt  (1869,  p.  8),  Naphegyi  (1869,  p.  310-311),  Marietti  (1870, 
p.  281),  de  Rosny  (1875,  p.  83-85;  ed.  1904,  p.  116-119),  and 
Bancroft  (1874-76,  v.  3,  p.  776)  all  print  the  Lord's  Prayer  in  Maya. 
Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1880)  gives  the  Maya  of  two  prayers.  Anon. 
(1891)  probably  has  the  Lord's  Prayer  in  Maya. 

THE  BIBLE 

St.  Luke.  The  translations  into  Maya  of  parts  of  the  Bible  are 
all  comparatively  late  works.  Ruz  (1)  made  a  translation  of 
Chapters  5,  11,  15  and  23  of  the  Gospel  of  St.  Luke.  This  manu- 
script, in  the  handwriting  of  Ruz  with  many  corrections  by  him, 
was  in  the  library  of  Bishop  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872 
p.  177)  in  Merida.  Ruz  (3)  is  a  second  edition  of  the  translation 
with  a  few  changes  in  writing  the  Maya. 

The  historical  catalogue  of  the  books  of  the  British  and  Foreign 
Bible  Society  of  London  states  that  as  early  as  1833  the  Committee 
of  the  Society  had  heard  that  a  version  of  St.  Luke  in  Maya  was 
being  prepared  in  Central  America  and  some  years  later  they  re- 
ceived the  manuscript  which  was  published  in  a  tentative  edition 
in  1862  (?)  with  no  author's  name  given.  John  Kingdon  arrived 
in  Belize,  British  Honduras,  in  1845  from  Jamaica  as  a  missionary 
of  the  British  Missionary  Society.  It  is  probable  that  he  was  the 
author  of  this  edition  (Kingdon,  1862),  as  it  was  published  on  the 
request  of  the  Bishop  of  Kingston,  Jamaica.  He  may  or  may  not 
have  used  the  translation  of  Ruz.1    According  to  the  records  of 

1  Brinton  (1882,  p.  41)  states  definitely  that  Kingdon  obtained  a  copy  of 
the  Ruz  MS.  which  he  printed  with  no  acknowledgment  of  the  author.  There 
is  a  great  deal  of  confusion  regarding  the  authorship  of  several  of  these  trans- 
lations of  the  Bible.  Kingdon  and  Henderson  were  Baptist  missionaries  at 
Belize  and  Fletcher  was  a  Methodist  missionary  at  Corozal,  British  Honduras. 
For  the  work  of  Henderson  and  Kingdon,  see  Crowe,  1850. 


200  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  Kingdon  completed  an 
edition  of  the  Gospels  and  the  Acts  in  Maya.  This  would  seem  to 
show  that  his  own  translation  of  St.  Luke  may  have  been  sent  to 
London  to  be  printed  rather  than  the  pirated  text  of  Ruz. 

The  complete  Gospel  of  St.  Luke  was  published  by  the  Bible 
Society  in  1865  with  no  name  but  probably  under  the  same  au- 
thority as  the  tentative  edition  of  1862  (Kingdon,  1865).  Hender- 
son (1870)  corrected  this  text  and  brought  out  another  edition 
under  the  imprint  of  the  Baptist  Bible  Translation  Society  of 
London.  Henderson  also  made  a  translation  of  the  Book  of 
Genesis  (§  1)  and  the  Psalms  (§  2)  according  to  Berendt  (1867). 

Chapter  6,  verses  27-34  of  St.  Luke  have  been  published  by 
Bagster  (1848-51,  p.  386;  ed.  1860,  p.  468). 

St.  John.  Fletcher  (1868),  a  missionary  at  Corozal,  British 
Honduras,  brought  out  a  tentative  edition  of  the  Gospel  of  St. 
John  translated  into  Maya.  This  was  published  by  the  British 
and  Foreign  Bible  Society  as  well  as  the  final  edition  (Fletcher, 
1869). x    The  latter  was  printed  at  Cambridge,  England. 

Chapter  3,  verse  16,  of  St.  John  has  been  published  by  the  Ameri- 
can Bible  Society  (1876,  p.  39),  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society 
(1,  p.  30;  2d  ed.  1878,  p.  28)  and  by  the  Pennsylvania  Bible  Society, 
(1,  p.  39:  2,  p.  28). 

St.  Matthew  and  St.  Mark.  Fletcher  (1900:  1900a)  was  also 
the  translator  of  the  Gospels  of  St.  Matthew  and  St.  Mark  brought 
out  by  the  same  Society.  These  translations  were  probably  made 
at  the  same  time  as  that  of  St.  John.  There  seems  to  be  another 
translation  of  St.  Mark  which  I  cannot  identify  (Anon,  12). 

SERMONS 

Not  only  were  the  Spanish  priests  active  in  spreading  the  Gospel 
by  means  of  translations  of  the  Catechism  into  Maya  but  again 
and  again  one  reads  that  the  Spanish  missionaries  were  commanded 

1  Brinton  (1900,  p.  213)  makes  Alexander  Henderson  a  joint  author  of  this 
work.  This  is  probably  incorrect  as  Henderson  belonged  to  another  denomi- 
nation. There  seems  to  have  been  a  definitive  edition  St.  John  published  in 
1868  as  well  as  in  1869,  according  to  a  record  kindly  furnished  me  by  the 
Reverend  R.  Kilgour,  D.D.,  Librarian  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society 
of  London.  I  am  also  indebted  to  him  for  other  intormation  concerning  the 
works  of  these  Protestant  missionaries.    See  also  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (2). 


SERMONS  201 

to  learn  the  languages  of  the  country  and  to  preach  in  these  lan- 
guages. There  are,  therefore,  references  to  a  large  number  of  ser- 
mons written  in  Maya.  The  greater  part  of  these  are  in  manuscript 
although  several  collections  of  them  have  been  published. 

XVI  Century.  Mention  has  already  been  made  of  the  volu- 
minous writings  on  Maya  vocabularies  of  Ciudad  Real.  He  was 
the  greatest  master  of  Latin  in  Yucatan  in  the  xvi  century.  His 
sermons  in  Maya  (Ciudad  Real,  §  4)  are  considered  by  the  early 
authorities  to  have  been  models  of  excellence.  They  are  unfor- 
tunately missing.  Solana  (§  1)  is  another  Padre  of  this  century 
who  wrote  sermons.  Torralva  (§  1)  who  was  in  Yucatan  from  1573 
to  1624  also  was  the  author  of  a  collection  of  religious  treatises  in 
Maya.  The  copy  of  a  draft  of  a  sermon  (Anon,  4,  copy  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  42-4),  supposedly  written  by  the  author  of  the  Motul  Dic- 
tionary, is  to  be  noted.  Anon  (30)  should  be  mentioned  here  as 
it  is  probably  the  same  manuscript  as  the  preceding  one.1 

XVII  Century.  Among  the  writers  of  this  century  who  were 
the  authors  of  sermons  in  Maya,  mention  should  be  made  of 
Coronel  (1620b),  Rincon2  (§  1),  Mena  (§  1),  and  Valladolid  (§  2), 
a  native  of  Yucatan,  born  in  1617  and  dying  in  1652.  The  sermons 
of  the  last  three  writers  are  missing. 

XVIII  Century.  Writers  of  discourses  of  this  century  include 
Beltran  (1740a,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  21),  Dominguez  y  Argaiz 
1758) 3  and  a  collection  of  sermons  in  manuscript  (Anon,  22,  in 
B.  L.  C.  No.  47).    Mention  should  also  be  made  here  of  a  second 

1  These  are  probably  the  two  sermons  mentioned  by  LePlongeon  in  a  letter, 
dated  September  26,  1884,  to  J.  R.  Bartlett,  then  Librarian  of  the  John  Carter 
Brown  Library.  This  was  written  when  he  returned  the  Motul  Dictionary 
which  he  had  borrowed  to  copy.  He  writes,  "  Also  the  two  sermons  on  Maj^a 
language  which  I  likewise  have  copied.  One  is  on  Trinity,  the  Reverend,  I  am 
afraid,  tried  to  explain  to  his  hearers  what  he  himself  did  not  understand  very 
clearly  for  he  seems  to  have  become  confused,  repeating  the  same  thing  over 
and  over  again.  .  .  .  The  other  is  on  the  faith  in  the  teachings  of  the  Holy 
Catholic  Church." 

2  Cogolludo  (1688,  lib.  12,  cap.  xi)  writes  as  follows,  "  El  R.  P.  Fr.  Antonio 
del  Rincon  .  .  .  fue  Predicador  de  Espanoles,  y  muy  gran  lengua  de  los  naturales, 
en  la  cual  escribib  algunos  Sermones,  que  han  aprovechado  a  otros  Ministros." 

3  A  copy  of  this  together  with  Carvajal  (1)  and  Anon  22  are  in  Berendt 
1868a. 


202  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

collection   of   sermons  in   manuscript   belonging   to   Mr.   Gates 
(Anon  21). 

XIX  Century.  Carvajal  (1)  has  left  a  manuscript  sermon  in 
Maya.1  Carvajal,  (§  2)  also  made  a  collection  of  proverbs  in  Maya 
which  has  disappeared.  These  date  from  the  early  xix  century. 
There  is  a  manuscript  volume  of  discourses  from  Teabo  owned 
by  Mr.  Gates  dating  from  about  1865  to  1884.  Toward  the 
middle  of  the  century  Ruz  (1846-50)  has  a  collection  of  four 
volumes  of  sermons  in  Maya.2  These  are  of  little  real  worth  as 
Maya  texts.  Vela  (1848)  gives  a  translation  of  a  sermon  by 
Bishop  Guerra.  Vela  (1848a)  also  addresses  the  Indios  sublevados 
in  a  religious  letter  in  the  native  language.  Fletcher  (1865)  is 
probably  the  author  of  a  short  sermon  for  every  day  of  the  week.3 
Vales  (1870)  translated  into  Maya  a  pastoral  sermon  of  Bishop 
Gala  giving  the  Spanish  and  Maya  texts.  Carrillo  y  Ancona  had 
the  manuscript  of  two  sermons  in  Maya  (Anon,  1871)  which  were 
copied  by  Berendt  (B.  L.  C.  No.  44-10). 

SECULAR  TEXTS 

There  is  a  large  mass  of  secular  texts  in  Maya  some  of  which  go 
back  to  very  early  Spanish  times.  It  should  be  remembered  that 
much  of  the  material  contained  in  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam 
might  be  considered  as  secular  rather  than  religious  in  nature. 
Reference  is  here  made,  however,  to  purely  historical,  legal,  and 
political  papers. 

Cr6nica  de  CbicxuLUB.4  This  manuscript,  dating  from  the 
middle  of  the  xvi  century,  is  also  called  the  Nakuk  Pech  Manu- 

1  This  is  probably  the  one  referred  to  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872, 
p.  189).  He  writes:  "  Asi  el  Sr.  presbitero  D.  Francisco  Carvajal,  que  florecio 
en  este  siglo,  escribio  en  yucateco  muchos  y  muy  buenos  discursos  y  sermones,  que 
sin  haberse  dado  a  la  prensa,  los  usan  los  instructors  de  indios.  Varias  veces 
hemos  escuchado  un  elocuente  sermon  de  viernes  santo,  de  que  el  anciano  Dr.  D. 
Tomds  D.  Quintana,  que  conocio  y  trato  intimamente  al  P.  Carvajal  nos  testified 
ser  el  MS.  obra  inedita  de  este  que  fue  gran  orador  de  la  lengua  Maya." 

2  Pinart  (1883,  No.  598)  mentions  three  volumes. 

3  Brinton  (1900)  in  his  Catalogue  of  the  Berendt  Collection  gives  the  author 
of  this  work  as  Richard  Fletcher.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1871,  p.  81)  and 
Vifiaza  (1892,  p.  552)  have  Alexander  Henderson  as  the  author. 

4  The  original  name  of  this  town  was  Chacxulubchen. 


SECULAR  TEXTS  203 

script,  as  it  deals  with  the  Pech  family  as  well  as  with  the  survey 
of  the  town.  It  is  a  quarto  of  26  pages  and  should  still  be  in  exist- 
ence in  the  village  from  which  it  takes  its  name.  A  copy,  which  is 
full  of  errors,  was  rediscovered  by  Martinez  in  1907.  This  is  owned 
by  Jose  Rafael  de  Regil  of  Merida.  There  is  a  Gates  reproduction 
of  the  copy.  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  p.  47-86,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-4) 
copied  portions  of  this  manuscript.  Avila  (1864)  translated  the 
whole  document  into  Spanish.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869- 
70,  v.  2,  p.  110-120)  has  published  the  Maya  and  a  French  trans- 
lation of  the  first  five  pages  of  the  original  together  with  some 
other  material  of  the  Pech  family.1 

Brinton  (1882,  p.  187-259)  describes  the  manuscript  and  gives 
the  text  and  translation  of  the  first  document  using  Avila's  Spanish 
version  to  some  extent.  Charencey  (1891)  gives  a  French  transla- 
tion of  Brinton.  Brinton  (1882a,  p.  167,  note)  refers  again  to  the 
manuscript.  Berendt  (1868d,  v.  2,  p.  47-86  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  43-4) 
as  noted  above,  made  a  copy  of  the  manuscript  in  Yucatan  and 
later  he  evidently  compared  his  copy  with  that  of  Brasseur  de 
Bourbourg  and  also  with  that  of  Avila  and  Brinton.  Perez  (2,  p. 
201-258,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  50-35)  also  gives  the  document.  Fiske 
(1892,  v.  1,  p.  138)  refers  to  the  manuscript  and  Juan  Molina  (1897, 
p.  467-468)  gives  a  paragraph  from  this  latter  document  with 
translation.  Martinez  (1918a)  has  a  paper  in  manuscript  on  the 
chronicle.  He  found  a  duplicate  manuscript  bv  Ah  Naum  Pech 
who  is  mentioned  by  Nakuk  Pech.  The  manuscript  is  practically 
identical  with  that  of  Nakuk  Pech. 

Legal  Documents.  The  most  important  of  these  non-religious 
items  consist  of  legal  papers.  The  earliest  of  these,  so  far  reported, 
is  that  dated  1542  (Anon,  1542)  still  preserved  according  to 
Brinton.  Next  in  point  of  time  is  a  collection  of  legal  documents 
owned  by  Gates,  the  first  paper  of  which  is  dated  1571  (Anon,  8). 

Xiu  Chronicles  or  Libro  de  Probanzas.  These  date  from  1608 
to  1817.  They  are  owned  by  the  Peabody  Museum  and  they  have 
been  reproduced  both  by  Mr.  Gates  and  by  Mr.  Bowditch.  The 
Bowditch  reproduction  has  an  introduction  by  Miss  Adela  C. 
Breton.  This  manuscript  is  probably  to  be  identified  as  the  Ticul 
Manuscript  or  the  Cronica  de  Oxkutzcab  and  is  the  one  probably 

1  See  Brinton,  1882,  p.  191-192. 


204  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

referred  to  by  an  anonymous  writer  in  the  Registro  Yucateco 
(1845-49,  v.  1,  p.  360) -1  This  manuscript  should  be  distinguished 
from  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Oxkutzcab.  This  collection  contains 
petitions  and  evidences  and  decrees  certifying  the  lordship  of  the 
heads  of  the  Xiu  family  established  near  Oxkutzcab.  The  Maya 
documents  are  often  followed  by  the  substance  of  the  petition  given 
in  Spanish.  There  is  also  a  good  map  of  the  region  in  the  vicinity 
of  Ticul  and  and  a  genealogical  tree  of  the  Xiu  family  which  is 
published  opposite  entry  No.  472  in  the  catalogue  of  Wilkinson 
(1915).  There  is  an  important  page  containing  data  useful  in  the 
correlation  of  Maya  and  Christian  chronology.  This  page  has 
been  reproduced  and  discussed  by  Morley  (1920,  p.  470  etc.) .  Gates 
(1920a)  gives  a  translation  of  the  same  page  with  notes  upon  it 
in  Morley  (1920,  p.  507-509).  Parts  of  the  manuscript  have  been 
copied  by  Miss  Breton  and  translated  by  Martinez  Hernandez 
(1920). 

Titulos  de  Ebtun.  These  compose  the  largest  collection  of  legal 
documents,  dating  from  about  1638  to  1829.  They  have  been  re- 
produced by  Gates. 

Libro  de  los  Cocomes  or  the  Libro  de  Cacalchen.  This  is  probably 
the  most  interesting  series  of  legal  manuscripts  from  a  linguistic 
point  of  view.  This  collection  of  documents  is  owned  by  Gates  and 
dates  from  1646  to  1826.  It  has  been  reproduced  by  him.  The 
first  34  leaves  contain  wills  in  Maya.  The  second  section  is  of  41 
paragraphs,  the  first  leaf  missing,  of  regulations  for  the  govern- 
ment of  the  town.  It  is  this  section  which  Martinez  Hernandez 
(1920b)  considers  to  contain  copies  made  in  1729  of  original  orders 
(ordenanzas)  of  the  Oidor,  Don  Diego  Garcia  de  Palacios,2  who 
came  to  Yucatan  in  1583.  These  orders,  in  turn,  were  made  by  the 
Oidor,  Tomas  Lopez,  in  1552  if  we  are  to  believe  Cogolludo  (1688, 
p.  401)  who  writes,  "  Las  ordenangas,  y  leyes  con  que  hasta  el  tiempo 
presente  se  estan  governando  los  Indios  de  esta  tierra,  son  las  que  hizo 
este  Visitador.  Casi  todas  son  renovacion  de  las  que  hizo  el  Oydor 
Thomas  Lopez,  quando  visitd  esta  tierra  el  ano  de  mil  y  quinientos  y 
cinquenta  y  dos,  sino  que  como  de  aquellas  se  perdieron  co(n)  el  tiempo 

1  See  quotation  from  this  account  in  Tozzer,  1917,  p.  180.  This  is  also  given 
by  Carrillo  y  Ancona  1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  147. 

2  The  same  person  is  mentioned  in  the  Mani  and  Tizimin  manuscripts  as 
Judge  Diego  Pare j  a. 


SECULAR  TEXTS  205 

los  quadernos,  y  en  el  presente  son  muy  pocos  que  los  han  visto,  dan  por 
nuevo  Autor  de  ellas  a  este  Visitador  .  .  .  Traduxeronse  en  el  idioma 
natural  de  los  Indios,  para  que  mejor  las  entendiessen,  y  supiessen, 
quedando  en  todos  los  Pueblos  un  traslado  dellas,  para  que  las  leyessen 
continuamente,  como  leyes  a' avian  de  observar"  Miss  Adela  Breton 
has  pointed  out  to  me  that  Ordenanza  25  is  quoted  in  a  Cedula  Real 
of  1579  by  Palomino  in  Juan  Molina  (1904^13,  v.  1,  p.  228).1 
Following  the  Ordenanzas  are  many  leaves  with  lists  of  minor 
officials.  Later  pages  have  the  parish  accounts  of  payments  of 
salaries.  It  can  thus  be  seen  that  these  documents  are  of  great 
linguistic  value  as  they  offer  Maya  texts  dating  from  the  middle  of 
the  xvn  century.  Martinez  Hernandez  (1920a)  has  translated  the 
the  will  of  Andres  Pat  (1647)  contained  in  this  collection. 

Cronica  de  Manx.  This  is  a  series  of  documents,  dating  from 
1556,  kept  in  the  Casa  Real  of  the  town  of  Mani,  according  to 
Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  262-268)  .2  He  gives  an  English  translation 
from  a  Spanish  version  made  by  Estanislao  Carrillo  (1)  and  cor- 
rected by  Perez  of  a  portion  of  these  manuscripts.  Stephens  also 
reproduces  the  map  of  the  vicinity  of  Mani  contained  in  this  col- 
lection of  documents.  Juan  Molina  (1897,  p.  69)  gives  a  para- 
graph from  this  manuscript  in  Maya  and  Spanish. 

Other  manuscripts  of  the  same  general  class  are  as  follows :  — 
Documentos  de  Sotuta  (Perez  2,  p.  187-200,  copy  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  50-34) ,3  Documentos  de  Ticul  (Ticul,  1760  et  seq.)  owned  by 
Gates  and  reproduced  by  him,  Titulo  de  Acanceh  (Acanceh,  1767, 
copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-7),  translated  into  Maya  by  Avila 
1864),  and  Papeles  de  Xtepen  (Xtepen,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-8). 

Political  Papees.  These  form  the  next  class  of  secular  texts 
in  Maya.    The  first  of  these  in  our  list  is  a  collection  of  letters 

1  Gates  informs  me  that  this  paragraph  from  Molina  is  also  found  in  the 
Xiu  Chronicles. 

2  Morley  (1920,  p.  473)  mentions  this  manuscript. 

3  Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  144)  writes:  "En  fin,  el  libro 
(Perez  2)  concluye  .  .  .  con  los  fragmentos  de  diferentes  manuscritos  mayas 
sobre  documentation  de  tierras  en  los  pueblos  de  Sotuta,  Yaxcaba  y  otros.  Dichas 
documentations  son  en  parte  originalmente  obras  de  nuestro  escritor  Gaspar 
Antonio.  .  .  .  Que  esto  es  asi  es  indudable,  pues  en  la  parte  maya  y  en  la  ver- 
sion espanola  que  acompana  el  Sr.  Perez,  aparece  por  dos  veces  correspondiendo  al 
ano  de  1600,  la  firma  de  Gaspar  Antonio  como  autor  de  los  documentos." 


206  APPRAISEMENT  OF  WORKS 

(Anon,  1514-72)  in  the  Archives  of  the  Indies  in  Seville.  Several 
of  these  documents  are  in  Maya.  A  careful  search  in  these  Archives 
would  doubtless  yield  more  material  in  the  Maya  language.  There 
is  a  letter  in  Maya  by  Goncalo  Che  (1877)  and  others,  addressed  to 
Philip  II,  dated  1567,  and  published  in  facsimile  in  Cartas  de 
Indias.  There  is  little  now  known  in  this  line  from  this  early  date 
until  the  beginning  of  the  xix  century.  Then,  there  comes  an 
order  of  the  governor  of  Yucatan  translated  into  Maya  by  Cervera 
(1803,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-9)  and  a  Banda  or  Proclamation 
issued  by  Artazo  y  Torredemer  (1814),  Brigadier  and  Captain- 
General,  on  matters  of  the  insurrection,  dangers  of  war,  etc.  This 
is  in  Maya  and  Spanish.1  Next  in  point  of  time  comes  a  collection 
of  letters  in  manuscript  written  in  Maya  by  Pat  (1847,  circa)  and 
other  leaders  of  the  uprising  in  1847.  This  manuscript  is  owned  by 
Gates  and  has  been  reproduced  by  him.  There  follows  another 
proclamation  translated  by  Perez  (1848)  and  a  proposition  for  an 
armistice  written  in  Maya  by  Chan  (1850,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No. 
44-11)  and  Others. 

Villanueva  (1864,  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-17)  gives  a  proclamation  in 
Ma}^a  and  Pacheco  Cruz  (1)  translates  some  of  the  decrees  of 
Governor  Avila.  There  is  also  an  address  to  Maximilian  in  Maya 
(Anon.  3,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No..  42-18).  A  political  squib  by 
Manuel  Garcia  (1856)  should  also  be  noted. 

Short  portions  of  secular  text  are  given  in  Granado  (1845,  p.- 171) 
and  Waldeck  (1838,  p.  90-91,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  42-2).  Mention 
should  also  be  made  of  the  Fama  diaria  (Anon.  24,  copy  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  50-18). 

Carrillo  y  Ancona  (1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  190)  writes.  "  Hemos 
visto  una  especie  de  circular  6  manifiesto  de  la  reina  de  Inglaterra,  6 
dado  en  nombre  suyo,  a  manera  de  cartelon,  con  grandes  y  hermosos 
caracteres  en  idioma  Maya,  el  cual  fue  desprendido  de  una  esquina 
de  calle  publica.  Modo  indirecto  de  imponer  poco  a  poco  y  de  hecho 
la  dominacion  britdnica  sobre  los  habitantes  de  nacionalidad  yucateca 
6  mexicana,  que  hablan  el  idioma  Maya  y  tienen  comercio  con  aquella 
colonia  inglesa"     (See  Anon,  10.) 

Poems,  Songs,  Folk-Lore,  etc.  Poems  in  Maya  are  given  by 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  120-121,  copy  in  B.  L.  C. 

1  Gates  regards  this  as  being  the  first  Maya  printed  in  Yucatan.  It  is  No. 
10  in  Medina  (1904)  where  he  calls  it  Cakchiquel. 


LACANDONE  TEXTS  207 

No.  44-5),  Hernandez  (1905),  and  Rejon  Garcia  (1905a,  p.  118- 
144).  Some  music  and  Maya  words  are  given  by  Berendt  (1868c). 
Alice  LePlongeon  (1)  published  some  Maj^a  music  with  Maya 
words.  Berendt  (1866)  has  a  Maya  witch  story  with  translation  in 
Spanish.1  Brinton  (1883;  ed.  1890,  p.  171-172)  gives  this  with  an 
English  translation.  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  101- 
102,  copy  in  B.  L.  C.  No.  44-6)  gives  a  short  text  in  Maya  and 
French  entitled  Invocation  au  Soleil,  which  he  collected  at  Xcancha- 
kan.  An  English  version  is  given  by  Brinton  (1883;  ed.  1890, 
p.  167).  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  (1869,  p.  10)  gives  a  short  sen- 
tence in  Maya  with  translation.  Anon  (29)  is  probably  a  folk-tale. 
Tozzer  (1901)  is  a  collection  of  historical  and  legendary  material.2 

LACANDONE  TEXTS 

Finally,  mention  should  be  made  of  the  Lacandone  text  and  Eng- 
lish translation  of  fifty-one  prayers  given  by  Tozzer  (1907,  p.  169- 
189)  .3  Incantations,  similar  in  many  respects  to  these,  and  com- 
ing from  southeastern  Yucatan  and  British  Honduras  are  given  by 
Gann  (1918,  p.  46-47). 

1  This  tale  is  given  in  Part  II,  p.  119-120. 

2  A  small  part  of  this  manuscript  is  given  in  Part  II,  p.  115-118. 

3  One  of  these  is  given  with  translation  in  Part  II,  p.  118-119. 


PART  IV 

A  BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  WORKS  RELATING 
TO  THE  MAYA  LANGUAGE 


PART  IV 

A  BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  WORKS  RELATING 
TO  THE  MAYA  LANGUAGE 

INTRODUCTION 

It  is  my  intention  to  give  in  the  accompanying  bibliography  as 
complete  a  list  as  possible  of  the  writers  and  their  works  on  and  in 
the  Maya  language  of  Yucatan.  I  do  not  attempt  to  give  all 
books  which  mention  this  language  but  those  only  which  describe 
or  treat  the  language  at  some  length. 

It  will.be  noted  that  following  each  entry  one  or  more  numbers 
are  given.  These  refer  to  the  page  or  pages  in  the  critical  survey 
of  the  literature  (Part  III)  where  the  book  or  manuscript  in  ques- 
tion is  discussed.  Part  III  can  thus  be  used  in  connection  with 
this  list  as  a  subject  catalogue.  A  number  also  follows  the  names  of 
some  of  the  authors.  This  refers  to  the  place  where  the  work  of  the 
writer  in  question  is  discussed  as  a  whole. 

A  §  in  front  of  a  date  or  number  indicates  that  the  work  referred 
to  is  missing. 

The  anonymous  books  will  be  found  listed  at  the  end  of  the  bib- 
liography. Wherever  possible  these  are  arranged  by  date;  other- 
wise they  are  grouped  alphabetically  by  the  first  word  of  the  title 
and  given  consecutive  numbers. 

I  desire  at  this  place  to  thank  once  more  my  friend,  William 
Gates,  Esqr.,  who  has  given  me  so  much  of  his  valuable  time  and 
has  been  so  willing  to  suggest  points  which  I  have  overlooked.  I 
wish  also  to  express  my  appreciation  of  the  kindness  of  Mrs.  Anne 
Fadil,  formerly  Librarian  of  the  University  Museum,  Philadelphia, 
who  was  good  enough  to  look  up  many  references  for  me  in  the 
Berendt  Collection.  Don  Juan  Martinez  Hernandez  should  also  be 
thanked  in  connection  with  this  bibliography.     Professor  M._H. 

211 


212  INTRODUCTION 

Saville  has  been  good  enough  to  loan  me  books  from  his  valuable 
library  in  addition  to  giving  me  several  suggestions.  Finally,  I 
wish  to  thank  Mr.  T.  F.  Currier,  Assistant  Librarian  of  the  Har- 
vard College  library,  who  has  supervised  the  verification  of  many 
of  the  references. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

ACANCEH,  TlTULO   DE 

1767  Titulo  de  un  solar  y  monte  en  Acanceh  (en  lengua  Maya) :  Trans- 
lated into  Spanish  by  Avila.  (Copy  12°,  8  p.  in  Berendt  Lin- 
guistic Collection,  No.  44-7.)     205. 

Acevedo,  Juan  de 

§  (1)     Principios    elementales  de  la  gramatica  Yucateca:   MS.  xvn 

century  (missing).    (Cogolludo  gives  the  title  Arte  de  la  lengua 

Yucateca  mas  breve.)     163. 
§  (2)    Instrucciones  catequisticas  y  morales  para  los  Indios  en  idioma 

Yucateco:  MS.  xvn  century  (missing).     197. 

Acosta,  Jose  Antonio 

1851  Oraciones  devotas  que  comprenden  los  actos  de  fe,  esperanza, 
caridad.  Afectos  para  un  cristiano  y  una  oracion  para  pedir 
una  buena  muerte  en  idioma  Yucateco  con  inclusion  del  Santo 
Dios:  Merida,  12°,  16  p.  (Maya  and  Spanish.  Gates  reproduc- 
tion.)    198. 

Adam,  Lucien 

1877  Du  polysynthetisme  et  de  la  formation  des  mots  dans  les  langues 

Quiche"  et  Maya :  in  Revue  de  Linguistique  et  de  Philologie  Com- 
paree,  v.  10,  p.  34-74.     167  (2). 

1878  Examen  grammatical  compare  de  seize  langues  americaines:  in 

Proceedings  of  the  2d  International  Congress  of  Americanists, 
Luxembourg  (1877),  v.  2,  p.  161-244.    (Published  separately, 
Paris,  1878,  8°,  88  p.     5  folding  sheets.)      168,  179. 
1878a  Etudes  sur  six  langues  americaines:  Dakota,  Chibcha,  Nahuatl, 
Kechua,  Quiche,  Maya:  Paris,  8°,  viii,  165  p.     168  (3),  179. 

Adelung,  Johann  Christoph 

1806-17  Mithridates  oder  allgemeine  Sprachenkunde  mit  dem  Vater 
unser  als  Sprachprobe  in  bey  nahe  500  Sprachen  und  Mund- 
arten.  Mit  wichtigen  Beytragen  zweyer  grossen  Sprachfor- 
scher:  Berlin,  8°,  4  v.  (with  additions  by  Johann  Severin 
Vater).     159,  161,  164,  199. 

Aguilar,  Pedro  Sanchez  de 

1639  Informe  contra  idolorum  cultores  del  Obispado  de  Yucatan: 
Madrid  4°.  (New  edition  in  Anales  del  Museo  Nacional, 
Mexico,  v.  6,  1892,  p.  15-122.)  (This  is  probably  the  same 
work  as  his  Relacion  de  las  cosas  de  Yucatan  y  sus  ecclesiasticos.) 
(See  Saville,  1921.)      192. 

§  (1)  Catecismo  de  Doctrina  Cristiana  en  lengua  Maya:  MS.  xvii 
century  (missing).     196. 

213 


214  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Alcedo  y  Bexarano,  Antonio  de 

1807  Biblioteca  americana.  Catalogo  de  los  au tores  que  han  escrito 
de  la  America  en  diferentes  idiomas.  Y  noticia  de  su  vida  y 
patria,  afios  en  que  viveron  y  obras  que  escribieron:  folio, 
MS.  2  v.  vi,  488;  489-1028  ff.  (from  Lord  Kingsborough's 
library)  in  John  Carter  Brown  Library,  Providence,  Rhode 
Island.  (Copy  in  Sparks  Collection,  Cornell  University,  with 
following  note  by  Sparks,  "This  volume  was  copied  from  the 
original  MS.  in  the  possession  of  0.  Rich  of  London.  The 
original  was  found  by  him  in  Madrid.  Copied,  1843."  There 
is  another  copy  with  statement  as  follows,  "Mexico.  Copia 
remitida  de  Boston  por  el  Sefior  William  H.  Prescott,  1854." 
See  criticism  of  this  work  by  Harrisse,  1866,  p.  xxiv,  and 
quoted  in  Spanish  by  Medina,  1898-1907,  v.  6,  p.  cxvi.)  154, 
157. 

American  Bible  Society.    Publisher. 

1876  Centennial  exhibition,  1876.  Specimen  verses  from  versions  in 
different  languages  and  dialects  in  which  the  Holy  Scriptures 
have  been  printed  and  circulated  by  the  American  Bible  So- 
ciety and  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society:  16°,  48  p., 
2  pis.  (Numerous  other  editions  the  last  of  which  was  in  1919 
including  specimen  verses  from  269  different  languages.)    200. 

Ancona,  Eligio 

[1877]  Introduction  to  the  Pio  Perez  Diccionario,  1866-77.    (See  Perez, 

1866-77.)     160. 
1878-1905    Historiade  Yucatan:  Merida,  8°,  5  v.    (4  v.  1878-80.   v.  5, 

edited  by  Jose  Maria  Pino  Suarez,  published  in  1905.   2d  and 

revised  edition  of  first  4  v.  Barcelona,  1889.)     162, 180,  185. 
1881     Compendio  de  la  historia  de  la  peninsula  de  Yucatan  que  com- 

prende  los  estados  de  Yucatan  y  Campeche.    Obra  escrita  en 

forma  de  dialogo  para  el  uso  de  las  escuelas:  Merida,  16°,  84  p. 

180. 
Andrade,  Jose  Leocadio 

1880    See  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1880. 
Andrade,  Jose  Maria 

1869    Catalogue  de  la  riche  bibliotheque  de  Andrade:    Leipzig  and 

Paris,  8°,  xi.  368  p.     (Sale  catalogue.)     154, 158. 

Andrade,  Vicente  de  Paula 

1899    Ensayo  bibhVgrafico  Mexicano  del  siglo  xvn:   Mexico,  (2d  ed.) 
8°,  vh,  803  p.    (1st  ed.,  1894,  in  Memorias  de  la  Sociedad  Cienti- 
fica  "Antonio  Alzate,"  never  completed.)     156. 
Anon. 

For  anonymous  works,  see  p.  276-279. 
Anonimo,  Codice 

See  Tizimin,  Chilam  Balam  de 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  215 

Antonio,  Gaspar 

See  Xiu,  Gaspar  Antonio 

Antonio,  Nicolas 

1672  Bibliotheca  Hispana  sive  Hispanorvm,  qvi  vsqvam  vnqvamve 
sive  Latina  sive  populari  sive  alia  quavis  lingua  scripto  aliquid 
consignaverunt  notitia,  his  qvse  prsecesservnt  locvpletior  et 
certior  brevia  elogia,  editorum  atque  ineditorum  operum 
catalogum  dvabvs  par  tibvs  contiens,  etc.:  Rome,  4°,  2  v. 
41  ff.,  633;  690  p.  (2d  ed.  Madrid,  1783-88.)  150, 163. 
1696  Bibliotheca  Hispana  Vetus;  sive,  Hispanorum  qui  usquam, 
unquamve  scripto  aliquid  consignaverunt,  notitia.  Com- 
plectens  scriptores  omnes,  qui,  ab  Octaviani  Augusti  imperio, 
usque  ad  annum  M.1  floruerunt:  Rome,  4°,  2  v.  (2d  ed. 
Madrid,  1788.)  153. 
Artazo  y  Torredemer,  Manuel 

1814    Banda  (or  Proclamation)  Maya  and  Spanish  in  parallel  columns: 
1  f .     206. 
Asensio,  Jose  Maria.    Editor. 

SeeColeccion  de  Documentos,  1898-1900. 
Auer,  Alois 

1844-47.     Sprachenhalle :  Vienna,  2  parts,  folio.     199. 

AVENDANO   Y   LOYOLA,    ANDRES   DE    142. 

1696  Relacion  de  las  dos  entradas  que  hize  a  Peten  Itza:  4°,  MS. 
66  ff.  (Gates  reproduction.  For  publication  of  greater  part 
of  MS.,  see  Means,  1917.    p.  103-174.)     164. 

§  (1)  Arte  para  aprender  la  lengua  de  Yucatan:  MS.  xvm  century 
(missing).     164. 

§  (2)  Diccionario  de  la  lengua  de  Yucatan:  MS.  xvm  century  (miss- 
ing).    174. 

§  (3)  Diccionario  abreviado  de  los  adverbos  de  tiempo  y  lugar  de  la 
lengua  de  Yucatan:  MS.  xvm  century  (missing).     174. 

§  (4)  Diccionario  botanico  y  medico  conforme  a  los  usos  y  costumbres 
de  los  Indios  de  Yucatan:   MS.  xvm  century  (missing).    174. 

§  (5)  Diccionario  de  nombres  de  personas,  idolos,  danzas,  y  otras 
antigtiedades  de  los  Indios  de  Yucatan:  MS.  xvm  century 
(missing).     174. 

§  (6)    Explicacion  de  varios  vaticinios  de  los  antiguos  Indios  de  Yuca- 
tan: MS.  xvm  century  (missing).     193. 
Avila,  Manuel  Encarnacion.     Translator. 

[1864  circa]     [Translation  into  Spanish  of  Titulo  de  Acanceh  (1767)  and 
Cronica  de  Cnicxulub  (1542)].     203,  205. 
Aznar  y  Perez,  Gabriel.     Translator. 

1882  Translation  of  Brinton,  18826:  in  Semanario  Yucateco:  Merida. 
183. 

1  The  M  in  the  title  is,  of  course,  a  misprint  for  M.D. 


216  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Bacabs,  Ritual  of  the 

12°,  MS.,  237  p.  contains  46  incantations.    (Owned  by  Gates.) 
196. 
Bachiller  y  Morales,  Antonio 

1883  Cuba  primitiva,  origen,  lenguas,  tradiciones  e  historia  de  los 
Indios  de  las  Antillas  Mayores  y  las  Lucayas :  Havana,  8°,  7- 
399  p.  2d  ed.  Corregida  y  aumentada.  (Printed  first  in  La 
Revista  de  Cuba.)  (See  Proceedings  of  the  1+th  International 
Congress  of  Americanists,  Madrid,  1882  [1881],  p.  315-317.) 
161. 
Baeza,  Jose  Nicolas 

1860    See  Beltran,  1740;  ed.  1860  and  later  editions. 
Baeza,  Secundino 

[1880  circa]     [Sobre  la  lengua  Yucateca] :  in  El  Seminario  Conciliar, 

Merida.     162. 
1883     Doctrina  necesaria  para  confesar  en  el  regla.     Dispuesta  en 
lengua  Maya:  Merida.    16°,  24  p.     (See  Anon,  9.)     198. 
Baezo,  Perfecto 

1832    Vocabulario  de  las  lenguas  Castellana  y  Maya  (en  el  idioma  de 
Peten)  in  Bulletin  de  la  Societe  de  Geographic  de  Paris,  v.  18, 
p.  215-217.   (Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  42-5, 
corrected  in  Peten  by  Berendt.)     174, 181. 
[Bagster,  Samuel.]    Editor. 

[1848-51]     The  Bible  of  every  land.    A  history  of  the  sacred  scriptures 
in  every  language  and  dialect  into  which  translations  have  been 
made :  London,  4°,  xxviii,  3, 406, 12  p.  maps.    (2d  ed.    London, 
1860,  4°,  (28)  32  (3)  475  (5)  p.)     200. 
Balbi,  Adrien 

1826  Atlas  ethnographique  du  globe,  ou  classification  des  peuples 
anciens  et  modernes  d'apres  leurs  langues,  pr6c6de  d'un  dis- 
cours  sur  Putilite  et  ^importance  de  l'etude  des  langues  appli- 
que^ a  plusieurs  branches  des  connaissances  humaines,  etc.: 
Paris,  1  v.  fol.  (xlix  pis.).  (Another  edition,  Boston,  1835.) 
161,  179. 
Bancroft,  Hubert  Howe 

1874-76    The  native  races  of  the  Pacific  States  of  North  America :  New 
York,  8°,  5  v.    (Numerous  other  editions.)    159,  165, 180, 181, 
185,  187,  199. 
Bandelier,  Adolf  F[rancois  Alphonse] 

1881     Notes  on  the  bibliography  of  Yucatan  and  Central  America:  in 
Proceedings  of  the  American  Antiquarian  Society  (1880)  (n.  s.) 
v.  1,  p.  82-117.     (Published  separately,  Worcester,  1881,  8°, 
39  p.)     156. 
Baqueiro,  Serapio 

1881     Resena  geografica,  historica  y  estadistica  del  estado  de  Yucatan: 
Mexico.     159. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  217 

Barbachano,  Thomas  Aznar 

1876    See  Donde,  Joaquin,  1876. 
Barcia  Carballido  y  Zuniga,  Andres  Gonzalez  de 

1737-38  Epitome  de  la  biblioteca  oriental  y  occidental,  nautica  y  geo- 
gr&fica,  anadido  y  enmendado  nuevamente  en  que  se  contienen 
los  escritores  de  las  Indias  Orientales,  y  Occidentales,  y  reinos 
convecinos,  China,  Tartaria,  Japon,  Persia,  Armenia,  Etiopia, 
y  otras  partes:   Madrid,  4°,  3  v.  153.    This  contains: 

Autores  que  han  escrito  en  lenguas  de  las  Indias  (col.  719- 
738).    (For  1st  ed.  see  Leon  Pinelo,  1629.) 
1749    Historiadores  primitivos  de  las  Indias  Occidentales  que  junt6, 
traduxo  en  parte  y  saco  a  luz,  illustrados  con  eruditas  notas  y 
copiosos  indices:    Madrid,  4°,  3  v.     (v.  2  contains  Gomara, 
1553.)     180. 
Bartlett,  John  Russell 

1865-71     Bibliotheca  Americana.     A  catalogue  of  books  relating  to 
North  and  South  America  in  the  library  of  John  Carter  Brown 
of  Providence,  R.  I.:    Providence,  8°,  3  pts.  (2d  ed.  1875-82, 
2  v.).     170. 
Barton,  Benjamin  Smith 

1797     New  views  of  the  origin  of  the  tribes  and  nations  of  America: 
Philadelphia,  8°,  xii,  cix,  83  p.    (New  edition,  1798.)     161. 
Bastian,  [Phillip  Wilhelm]  Adolf 

1878-89    Die  Culturlander  des  alten  America:  Berlin,  8°,  3  v.     159. 
Bates,  Henry  Walter.    Editor 

1878    Central  America,  the  West  Indies  and  South  America,  edited  and 
extended  .  .  .  with  ethnological  appendix  by  A.  H.  Keane; 
London,  12°,  xviii  p.  If.,  571  p.,  20  pis.    (Numerous  editions. 
For  enlarged  edition,  see  Keane,  1901.) 
Batres,  Leopoldo 

1885     Cuadro  arqueologico  y  etnogrdfico  de  la  Republica  Mexicana: 
New  York,  1  folio  sheet.     159. 
Beauvois,  Eugene 

1899     Les  publications  relatives  a  l'ancien  Mexique  depuis  une  tren- 
taine  d'annees:  Paris,  8°.     156. 
Beltran,  de  Santa  Rosa  Maria,  Pedro 

1740  Declaracion  de  la  Doctrina  Christiana  en  el  idioma  Yucateco, 
nuevamente  corregida  en  algunos  vocables  y  periodos :  Mexico 
(missing).  Ed.  1757,  Mexico,  8°,  36  p.  (Title  p.  1,  p.  2-22 
Advertencias,  p.  18  incorrectly  numbered  81.)  Later  editions 
have  title  Declaracion  de  la  Doctrina  Christiana  en  el  idioma 
Yucateco  por  el.  .  .  .  Anadiendole  el  acto  de  contricion  en  verso: 
Merida,  1816, 12°,  2  fif .  3-20  p.  (Gates  reproduction) ;  Merida, 
1860,  24°,  23  p.  (revised  by  J.  N.  Baeza  with  Acto  de  contricion 
en  prosa.)  Later  editions  follow  this:  Merida,  1866, 16°,  23  p. 
and  Merida,  1895,  16°,  16  p.     197. 


218  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Beltran,  de  Santa  Rosa  MarIa,  Pedro  (continued). 

1740a  Novena  de  Christo  crucificado  con  otras  oraciones  en  lengua 
Maya:  Mexico,  27  ff.  (Copy  by  Berendt,  12°,  105  p.  in 
Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  21.)     201. 

1746  Arte  de  el  idioma  Maya  reducido  a  succintas  reglas  y  semi- 
lexicon  Yucateco:  Mexico  8°,  8  ff .  188  p.  (Gates  reproduc- 
tion.) (2d  ed.  Merida,  1859.  1739  is  date  given  by  some  as 
that  of  1st  ed.,  this  is  incorrect.)  (See  Kingdon  1,  and  Hen- 
derson 3.)     164,  168,  174,  181. 

1859  Second  edition  of  1746:  Merida,  8°,  8ff.,  242  p.  (The  editor, 
Espinosa,  has  a  second  impression  of  his  edition  with  a  Preface 
and  notes  at  bottom  of  page.)     164, 168, 174, 181. 

Berendt,  Carl  Hermann    146. 

1864  Notas  gramaticales  sobre  la  lengua  Maya  de  Yucatan:   Incom- 

plete MS.  4°,  40  p.  (Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  12). 
166. 

1865  [Annotated  copy  of  Kingdon,  1847,  which,  in  turn,  is  a  transla- 

tion of  Ruz,  1844]:  12°,  MS.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection, 
No.  14.     166. 

1866  Ein  feen  Marchen  der  Maya;   (Maya  and  Spanish)  Peten.    MS. 

in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection.  (Published  in  Brinton,  1883; 
ed.  1890,  p.  171-72).  207. 
1866-67  Vocabulario  del  dialecto  (de  Maya)  de  Peten:  MS.  (Berendt 
Linguistic  Collection,  No.  42-5.  English  translation  by  Means 
(1917)  in  Papers  of  the  Peabody  Museum,  v.  7,  p.  188-191). 
174. 

1867  Report  of  explorations  in  Central  America:    in  Report  of  the 

Smithsonian  Institution,  Washington  p.  420-426.  174. 
1867a  Diccionario  Huasteco-Espanol  estractado  de  la  Noticia  de  la 
lengua  Huasteca  con  Catecismo  y  Doctrina  Christiana  y  con 
un  copioso  Diccionario  por  Carlos  de  Tapia  Zenteno:  8°,  MS. 
288  p.  (Copy  of  the  Tapia  Zenteno  dictionary  with  numerous 
additions  and  marginal  comparisons  of  Huastec  words  with 
others  in  Maya  and  Cakchiquel.  About  3000  words,  in  B.  L.  C. 
No.  82.)     178. 

1868  Chilam  Balam.    Articulos  y  fragmentos  de  manuscritos  antiguos 

en  lengua  Maya,  colectados  y  copiados  en  facsimile:  4°,  MS. 
200  p.  (Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  49.  Notes  taken 
on  this  MS.  by  C.  P.  Bowditch  (1908a).  Gates  reproduction 
of  notes).    144,  183.     This  contains  the  following: 

Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel,  p.  1-74,  80,  159-200.    188. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Ixil,  p.  75-79,  97-100.     190. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Kaua,  p.  81-92.     190. 

Chilam  Balam  de  Tizimin,  p.  101-158.     189. 

Cuaderno  de  Teabo,  p.  93-96.     195. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  219 

1868a  Coleccion  de  platicas,  doctrinales  y  sermones  en  lengua  Maya  por 
diferentes  autores:  16°,  MS.  257  p.  (Berendt  Linguistic  Col- 
lection, Nos.  46,  47).    147,  201.    This  contains  the  following: 

Dominguez  y  Argaiz  (1758)  p.  1-76. 

Carvajal(l)  p.  77-116. 

Sermones  (Anon.  22)  p.  119-229. 

Modo  de  confesar  (Anon  1803)  p.  231-257. 

(P.  37,  77-257  reproduced  by  Gates.) 

18686  Literatura  de  la  lengua  Maya,  obras  que  parecen  perdidas :  MS., 

written  in  Merida  (Berendt  Linguistic  Collection).     151. 
1868c  Canciones  en  lengua  Maya:  MS.,  collected  in  Merida,  in  Berendt 

Linguistic  Collection.     (Partial  copy  by  Schuller,  8°,  13  p, 

reproduced  by  Gates.)     207. 
1868d  Lengua  Maya.     Miscelanea:  12°,  MS.  3  v.     147.     The  contents 

of  these  volumes  are  entered  in  this  bibliography  under  the 

following  headings : 

Vol.  1  (Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  42). 

No.  1.  Waldeck,  1838,  p.  79-90. 

2.  Waldeck,  1838,  p.  91. 

3.  Waldeck,  1838,  p.  29-30. 

4.  Anon  (4). 

5.  Baezo,  1832. 

6.  Galindo,  1832. 

7.  Ternaux-Compans,  1840-41. 

8.  Numerales:  in  Beltran,  1748;  ed.  1859,  p.  195-201. 

9.  Las  Profecias:  in  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1857-59,  v. 

2,  p.  603-606.     192. 

10.  Anon  (6). 

11.  Oviedo,  1535;  ed.  1851-55,  v.  4,  p.  593-607.     169. 

12.  Anon  (11). 

13.  Tabla  de  multiplicar:  in  Chilam  Balam  de  Kaua.   191. 

14.  Anon  (1). 

15.  Anon  (18). 

16.  Anon  (17). 

17.  Villanueva  (1). 

18.  Anon  (3). 

Vol.  2  (Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  43). 

No.  1.  Epocas  de  la  historia  de  Yucatan:  in  Perez,  1842.   185. 

2.  The  same:  in  Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel     188. 

3.  Las  Profecias:   in  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani  y  de  Chi- 

mayel.     194. 

4.  Cronica  de  Cnicxulub.     203  (2). 

5.  Fragmentos  sobre  la  cronologia  (Perez,  3).     (Mainly 

the  Chilam  Balam  de  Kaua.)     184, 191  (2). 

6.  Las  Profecias:  in  Chilam  Balam  de  Ixil  and  Mani. 

190,  194. 


220  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Berendt,  Carl  Hermann — 1868d,  Vol.  2  (continued). 
No.  7.  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani.     184. 

8.  Chilam  Balam  de  Oxkutzcab.     190. 

9.  Historia  de  la  Doncella  Teodora.     184. 
Vol.  3  (Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  44). 
No.  1.  Perez  (9). 

2.  Perez  (8). 

3.  Perez  (6). 

4.  Perez  (5). 

5.  Cancion  amorosa:  in  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1869-70, 

v.  2,  p.  120-121.     206. 

6.  Invocation  au  soleil:  in  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1869- 

70,  v.  2,  p.  101-102.     207. 

7.  Titulo  de  Acanceh.     205. 

8.  Papeles  de  Xtepen.     205. 

9.  Cevera,  1803. 

10.  Anon,  1871. 

11.  Chan,  1850. 

1869  Analytical  alphabet  for  the  Mexican  and  Central  American 

languages:  New  York,  16°,  8,  6  p.     (Published  by  American 
Ethnological  Society.)     168,  199. 

1870  Extractos  de  los  recetarios  de  Indios  en  lengua  Maya,  notas,  y 

afiadiduras  [a  MS.  de  Pio  Perez]:    See  Pio  Perez  (4).     (In 
Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  45).    196. 
1870a  Apuntes  sobre  la  lengua  Chaneabal.    Con  un  vocabulario:    8° 
MS.  7,  25  ff.     (See  Brinton,  1888.)     (In  Berendt  Linguistic 
Collection.     No.  96.)     178. 

1871  2d  edition  of  Ruz,  1845,  revised  and  edited:  Merida,  16°,  14  p. 

166. 

1871a  Los  trabajos  linguisticos  de  Don  Juan  Pio  Perez:  Mexico,  in 
Boletin  de  la  Sociedad  de  Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica 
Mexicana  (2d  Series),  v.  3,  p.  58-61.  (Published  separately. 
Mexico,  1871,  8°,  6  p.  Original  MS.  in  Berendt  Linguistic 
Collection.     No.  11,  p.  137-163.    See  Perez,  1.)      143,  175. 

1878  Remarks  on  the  centres  of  ancient  civilization  in  Central  America 
and  their  geographical  distribution:  in  Bulletin  of  the  Ameri- 
can Geographical  Society,  (1876)  v.  8,  p.  132-145  (Published 
separately,  New  York,  1876).     159. 

1878a  See  Rockstroh  1878. 

(1)  Comparative  vocabulary  of  Mexican   or  Nahuatl  and   Maya 

languages:    4°,    MS.    10  ff.    in    Collection   Linguistic   MSS., 
Bureau  of  Ethnology,  Washington.     178. 

(2)  Vocabulary  of  the  Maya  language;  200  words:  fol.  MS.  6  ff*.  in 

Collection  Linguistic  MSS.,  Bureau  of  Ethnology,  Washington. 
176. 

(3)  Vocabulario  comparativo  de  las  lenguas  pertenecientes  a  la  fa- 

milia    Maya-Quiche:    600-700   words   in   24   dialects:     MS. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  221 

(formerly  in  possession  of  Rockstroh,  published,  in  part,  in 
Stoll,  1884).     178. 

(4)  Nombres  proprios  en  lengua  Maya:  folio,  MS.  150  ff.  (in  Berendt 

Linguistic  Collection,  No.  48).     176. 

(5)  Miscellanea  Maya.    Folio  scrap-book:   (Berendt  Linguistic  Col- 

lection, No.  179).    147.    This  book  contains  the  following: 

1.  Gramatica. 

Analytical  alphabet,  11  p.  fol.  4.     168. 
Comparative  alphabet  of  the  Maya,  2  p.  fol.  5.    168. 

2.  Languages. 

Alfabeto  de  las  lenguas  Metropolitana,  4  p.  fol.  14. 
Charakter  der  americanischen  Sprachen,  2  p.  fol.  22. 

3.  Wortbildungen  Maya,  17  p.  fol.  24.     166. 

4.  Maya  moderna  y  dialectos,  2  p.  fol.  34.     166. 

5.  Grammar.    166. 

Formacion  del  plural,  4  p.  fol.  36. 

Adjectivos,  2  p.  fol.  39. 

Pronombres,  4  p.  fol.  42. 

Prepositiones,  etc.  3  p.  fol.  45. 

Verbos,  19  p.  fol.  47. 

Partes  sexuales,  6  p. 

Korpertheile,  5  p. 

Nombres  de  parentesco,  3  p. 

Plantas;  mais;  medidas,  12  p.  fol.  54. 

Bebida  y  comida;  Mammalia,  7  p. 

Pajaros;  Beleuchtung,  Insects,  Aves,  13  p.  fol.  55. 

Conversazione,  10  p.  fol.  57. 

6.  Vocabulario  de  la  lengua  Maya,  del  Putun,  del  Tzental, 

del  Chontal,  etc.     178. 
Maya  und  Nahuatl,  56  p.  fol.  58.     178. 
Mexicano-Maya-Otomi,  30  p.  fol.  59.     178. 
Maya-Cakchiquel,  4  p.  fol.  60.     179. 
Maya-Natchez,  13  p.  fol.  62.     179. 
Maya-Apalahchi,  fol.  63.     179. 
Maya-Chontal-Quiche-Cakchiquel-Zutuhil-Huasteca- 

Mame-Poconchi,  2  p.  fol.  64.     179. 

7.  Gramatical  comparativos  de  las  lenguas  de  la  Familia 

Maya,  5  p.  fol.  66.     168. 

8.  Vergleichende  Uebersicht  d.  Zahlu'tr,  14  p.  fol.  67.    182. 

9.  Locuciones  varios  en  Maya,  8  p.  fol.  71. 
10.  Ethnologia,  fol.  76. 

Caracter  de  los  indios  de  Yucatan. 
Costumbres  de  los  indios,  fol.  77. 
Calendarios,  fol.  79. 
Jeroglificos,  fol.  86. 
Antiqiiedades,  fol.  89. 
Maya  ethnologia,  fol.  92. 


222  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Berendt,  Carl  Hermann,  (continued). 

(6)  Miscellanea   Centro-Americana.     Folio   scrap-book:     (Berendt 

Linguistic  Collection,  No.   180).     147.    Among  other  items, 
this  volume  contains: 

A  bibliography  of  no  value  for  Maya  linguistics. 

100  worc|s  with  translation  from  Oviedo.     169. 

(7)  Miscellanea  historica  et  linguistica.    Folio  scrap-book:   (Berendt 

Linguistic  Collection,  No.  181).     147.    Among  other  items, 
this  volume  contains: 

A  note  on  the  Motul  dictionary.     170. 

A  bibliography  of  Yucatan.     157. 

Brasseuriana.     146. 

(8)  Historia  de  la  lexicografia  de  la  lengua  Maya.    Original  MS.  (in 

Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  11,  p.  185-188.  See  Perez  1). 
157. 

(9)  [Unidentified  articles  in  Deutsch-Amerikanisches  Conversations- 

Lexikon,  Correspondenzblatt  fur  Anthropologie,  Ethnologie  und 
Urgeschichte,  La  Revista  de  Merida,  etc.]     147. 
Beristain  y  [Martin  de]  Souza,  Jose  Mariano 

1816-21  Biblioteca  hispano-americana  septentrional  (6  Catalogo  y 
noticia  de  los  literatos) :  Mexico,  3  v.  (2d  edition,  Amecameca, 
1883,  sm.  12°,  3  v.  and  1  v.  Santiago  de  Chile,  1897.  Latter 
has  sub-title,  O  catalogo  y  noticia  de  los  literatos  que  6  nacidos 
6  educados  6  florecientes  en  la  America  septentrional  han 
dado  a  luz  algun  escrito  6  lo  han  dejado  preparado  para  la 
prensa).  (See  Ramirez,  1898.)  151,  165,  157. 
Beuchat,  Henri 

1912     Manuel    d'archeologie     americaine    (Ame>ique     prehistorique. 
Civilisations  disparues) :  Paris,  8°,  xli,  773  p.     160,  183. 
Boban,  E[ugene|.    Editor. 

1885    See  Batres,  1885. 
Bollaert,  William 

1866  Maya  hieroglyphic  alphabet  of  Yucatan:  In  Memoirs  of  the 
Anthropological  Society  of  London,  v.  2  (1865-66),  p.  46-54. 
168,  170,  180. 
1870  Examination  of  Central  American  hieroglyphs:  Of  Yucatan  — 
including  the  Dresden  Codex,  the  Guatemalien  of  Paris,  and 
the  Troano  of  Madrid:  the  hieroglyphs  of  Palenque,  Copan, 
Nicaragua,  Veraguas,  and  New  Granada;  by  the  newly  dis- 
covered Maya  alphabet:  in  Memoirs  of  the  Anthropological 
Society  of  London,  v.  3  (1867-69),  p.  288-314.  162. 
Boturini  Benaducci,  Lorenzo 

1746  Idea  de  una  nueva  historia  general  de  la  America  Septentrional. 
Fundada  sobre  material  copioso  de  figuras,  symbolos,  carac- 
teres,  y  geroglificos,  cantares  y  manuscritos  de  autores  indios, 
ultimamente  descubiertos :  Madrid,  4°,  20  ff.,  167,  [8],  96  p. 
(2d  ed.    Mexico,  1887.)     153. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  223 

Bowditch,  Charles  P[ickering] 

1901     Memoranda  on  the  Maya  calendars  used  in  the  Books  of  Chilam 

Balam:  in  American  Anthropologist  (n.  s.)  v.  3,  p.  129-138. 

183. 
1901a  On  the  age  of  the  Maya  ruins:  in  American  Anthropologist  (n.  s.) 

v.  3,  p.  697-700.    183. 
1908    Collation  of  Berendt  1868c?,  v.  2:  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion No.  43.    (Gates  reproduction.)     147. 
1908a  Collation  of  Berendt,  1868:  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No. 

49.     (Gates  reproduction.)     147. 
1910    The  numeration,  calendar  systems,  and  astronomical  knowledge 

of  the  Mayas:  Cambridge,  8°,  xviii,  340  p.  ,  xix  pis.     177  (2), 

182,  189,  190,  191. 
(1)  List  of  Maya  words  in  Landa  and  elsewhere  with  translation. 

4°,  MS.  17  ff.     169. 

Brasseurde  Bourbourg,  Charles  Etienne     146. 

1851  Lettres  pour  servir  d'introduction  a  l'histoire  primitive  des  na- 
tions civilisees  de  l'Amerique  Meridionale,  a  M.  le  due  de 
Valmy:  Mexico,  4°,  76  p.    (This  is  the  1st  ed.  of  his  1855-56.) 

1855  Notes  d'un  voyage  dans  l'Amerique  Centrale.  Lettres  a  M. 
Alfred  Maury,  Bibliothecaire  de  lTnstitut :  in  Nouvelles  Annates 
des  Voyages  et  des  Sciences  Geographiques ,  Paris,  (6th  series), 
v.  1,  p.  129-158.     161. 

1855-56  Nouvelles  decouvertes  sur  les  traditions  primitives  conservees 
chez  les  anciens  habitants  de  l'Amerique,  d'apres  leurs  livres 
et  la  lecture  de  leurs  hieroglyphes :  in  Annates  de  Philosophic 
Chretienne,  Paris,  v.  50,  p.  278-296,  325-341;  v.  51,  p.  199- 
220,  477-491;   v.  52,  p.  62-79,  112-117.    185. 

1857  Essai  historique  sur  les  sources  de  la  philologie  Mexicaine:  in 
Archives  de  la  Societe  Americaine  de  France,  v.  1,  p.  5-32.    159. 

1857-59  Histoire  des  nations  civilisees  du  Mexique  et  de  l'Amerique- 
centrale,etc:  Paris,  8°,  4  v.  xcii,  440;  616;  692;  851  p.  161, 
185,  187,  193. 

1859  Essai  historique  sur  les  sources  de  la  philologie  mexicaine  et  sur 
l'ethnographie  de  l'Amerique  Centrale:  in  Revue  Orientate  et 
Americaine,  Memoires  de  la  Societe  oV  Ethnographic,  (Series  1), 
Paris,  v.  1,  p.  354-380,  v.  2,  p.  64-75.     156. 

1864    Relation  des  choses  de  Yucatan  de  Diego  de  Landa  .  .  .  avec 
une  grammaire  et  un  vocabulaire  abreges  Francais-Maya : 
Paris,  8°,  cxii,  516  p.    168, 169, 180.     This  also  contains: 
Lizana  (1633,  caps  1-4)  with  French  translation,  p.  348-365. 
Perez  (1843)  with  French  translation,  p.  366-419.     186. 
Perez  (1842)  with  French  translation,  p.  420-429.     185. 
Esquisse  d'une  grammaire  de  la  langue  Maya;  d'apres  celles 
de  Beltran  et  de  Ruz,  p.  459-478.     165, 166. 


224  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Bkasseur  de  Bourbourg,  Charles  Etienne,  1864  (continued). 

Les  prieres  en  Maya  et  en  Francais  d'apres  le  P.  Joaquin 

Ruz,  p.  478-479.     199. 
Vocabulaire  Maya-Francais  d'apres  divers  auteurs  anciens 
et  modernes,  p.  480-506.     (Annotated  copy  by  Berendt 
in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  7.)     176. 
1865    Esquisses  d'histoire,  d'arch^ologie,  d'ethnographie  et  de  linguis- 
tique  pouvant  servir  d'instructions  generates :   in  Archives  de 
la  Commission  Scientifique  du  Mexique,  Paris,  v.  1,  p.  85-136. 
159. 
1869    Lettre  a  M.  Leon  de  Rosny  sur  la  d^couverte  de  documents 
relatifs  a  la  haute  antiquite  americaine,  et  sur  le  dechiffrement 
et  Interpretation  de  l'ecriture  phonetique  et  figurative  de  la 
langue  Maya:   in  Memoires  de  la  Societe  d'Ethnographie  de 
Paris  (2d  Series),  v.  1.  (Published  separately:  Paris,  1869, 
8°,  20  p.)    207. 
1869-70    Manuscrit  Troano.    Etudes  sur  le  systeme  graphique  et  la 
langue  des  Mayas:    Paris,  4°,  2  v.     Mission  Scientifique  au 
Mexique  et  dans  l'Ame>ique  Centrale.    V.  2  contains: 
Introduction  aux  elements  de  la  langue  Maya,  p.  i-xlix.    160, 

162,  161. 
Grammaire  et  chrestomathie  de  la  langue  Maya  (after  San 

Buenaventura),  p.  1-84.     164. 
Observations  du  traducteur  sur  l'orthographe  de  quelques 

mots,  p.  85-87. 
Resume*  des  desinences  verbales,  p.  87-91. 
Tables  des  noms  de  nombre,  manieres  de  compter,  etc. 

d'apres  Beltran,  p.  92-99.     181. 
Chrestomathie  ou  choix  de  morceaux  de  literature  Maya, 

p.  101-122.    207. 
Invocation  au  soleil  (collected  at  Hacienda  de  Xcanchakan), 
p.  101-102.    Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No. 
44-6.     207. 
Les  cinq  proprieties  sibyllines  d'apres  Lizana,  p.  103-110. 

193. 
Titre  antique  concernant  la  famille  de  Nakuk  Pech,  p.  110— 

120.     203. 
Chant  d'amour.    Recueilli  a  Izamal  au  mois  de  d£cembre, 
1864,  p.  120-121.    (Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection, 
No.  44-5.)     206. 
Ruz,  1846,  p.  121-2.     198. 

Vocabulaire  general,  Maya-Francais  et  Espagnol,  p.  123- 

462.     176. 

1871     Bibliotheque  Mexico-Guatemalienne  prece'dee  d'un   coup  d'ceil 

sur  les  etudes  americaines  dans  leurs  rapports  avec  les  etudes 

classiques  et  suivie  du  tableau  par  ordre  alphabetique  des 

ouvrages  de  linguistique  americaine  contenus  dans  le  meme 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  225 

volume,  r£digee  et  mise  en  ordre  d'  apres  les  documents  de  sa 
collection  ame>icaine:  Paris,  8°,  xlvii,  183  p.  146,  165. 
1872  Dictionnaire,  grammaire  et  chrestomathie  de  la  langue  Maya 
prec6d6s  d'  une  6tude  sur  le  systeme  graphique  des  indigenes 
du  Yucatan  (Mexique) :  Paris,  4°,  xlix,  464  p.  (Reissue  with 
new  title  page  of  his  1869-70,  v.  2.) 

Breton,  Adela  C. 

1919  Relationships  in  Central  America:  in  Man,  v.   19,  article  94, 

London.     175. 

1920  See  Martinez  Hernandez,  1920,  1920a,  19206. 

Brigham,  William  T[ufts] 

1887    Guatemala,  the  land  of  the  quetzal:  New  York,  8°,  xv,  453  p. 
178. 

Brinton,  Daniel  Garrison    148. 

1867  The  Natchez  of  Louisiana,  an  offshoot  of  the  civilized  nations  of 

Central  America:  in  Historical  Magazine,  New  York,  (2d 
series),  v.  1,  p.  16-18.     179. 

1868  The  myths  of  the  New  World:  a  treatise  on  the  symbolism  and 

mythology  of  the  red  race  of  America:  New  York,  12°, 
viii,  307  p.  (2d  ed.,  New  York,  1876;  3d  ed.,  Philadelphia, 
1896.)  193. 
1871  Remarks  on  the  nature  of  the  Maya  group  of  languages:  in  Pro- 
ceedings of  the  American  Philosophical  Society,  (1869),  v.  11, 
p.  4-6.     162. 

1881  The  names  of  the  gods  in  the  Kiche  myths,  Central  America: 

in  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical  Society,  v.  19, 
p.  613-647.  (Published  separately,  Philadelphia,  1881,  8°, 
37  p.)     162. 

1882  Maya  chronicles:  Philadelphia,  8°,  279  p.:  in  Library  of  Aborigi- 

nal American  Literature,  No.  1.    148, 183.    Among  other  items, 
this  book  contains  the  following: 
The  name  "Maya,"  p.  9-16.     180. 
Maya  linguistic  family,  p.  17-20. 
Grammar,  p.  27-37.     167. 
Numeral  system,  p.  37-50.     181. 
Books  of  Chilam  Balam,  p.  67-72,  81-88.     182. 
Grammars  and  dictionaries,  p.  72-77.     157,  170. 
Extracts  with  translations :  — 
ManiMS.,  p.  89-135.     186,194. 
Tizimin  MS.,  p.  136-151.     189. 
Chumayel  MS.,  p.  152-185.     188. 
Pech  MS.,  p.  187-259.     194,  203. 
Vocabulary,  p.  261-279.     176. 
1882a  American  hero-myths,  a  study  in  the  native  religions  of  the 
western  continent:   Philadelphia,  8°,  251  p.    162, 194,  203. 


226  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Brinton,  Daniel  Garrison  (continued) 

18826  The  books  of  Chilam  Balam,  the  prophetic  and  historic  records 
of  the  Mayas  of  Yucatan:  in  Penn  Monthly,  v.  13,  p.  261-275. 
(Republished  in  his  1890,  p.  255-273,  also  printed  separately, 
Philadelphia,  1882,  8°,  19  p.  Spanish  translations  by  Aznar 
y  Perez,  1882,  and  Troncoso,  1883,  in  Andes  del  Museo  Na- 
tional, Mexico,  v.  3,  p.  92-109.)     183  (2),  189, 191, 195. 

1882c  The  graphic  system  and  ancient  records  of  the  Mayas.  Origi- 
nally published  as  the  Introduction  to  Cyrus  Thomas:  "Study 
of  the  Manuscrit  Troano  "  in  Contributions  to  North  American 
Ethnology:  Washington,  v.  5,  4°,  p.  xvii-xxxvii.  (Republished 
with  additions  as  "The  writing  and  records  of  the  Ancient 
Mayas"  in  his  1890,  p.  230-254.)     194. 

1883  The  folk-lore  of  Yucatan:   in  Folk-Lore  Journal,  London,  v.  1, 

p.  244-256.    (Republished  in  his   1890,   p.    163-180.)    191, 
207  (2). 
1883a  Aboriginal  American  authors  and  their  productions;   especially 
those  in  the  native  languages.    A  chapter  in  the  history  of 
literature:   Philadelphia,  8°,  viii,  9-63  p.     183. 

1884  Catalogue  of  the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection:    4°,  MS.  1  p. 

79  ff.     (For  printed  edition,  see  his  1900.) 
1884-85     Memoir  of  Dr.  C.  H.  Berendt :  in  Proceedings  of  the  American 
Antiquarian  Society,  1883,  (n.  s.)  v.  3,  p.  205-210.    146. 

1885  The  philosophic  grammar  of  American  languages,  as  set  forth  by 

Wilhelm  von  Humboldt;  with  the  translation  of  an  unpub- 
lished memoir  by  him  on  the  American  verb:  in  Proceedings 
oj  the  American  Philosophical  Society,  v.  22,  p.  306-354.  (Pub- 
lished separately,  Philadelphia,  1885,  8°,  51  p.  This  is  re- 
printed in  an  altered  form  in  his  1890,  p.  328-348.)    162, 167. 

1885a  American  languages  and  why  we  should  study  them:  in  Pennsyl- 
vania Magazine  of  History  and  Biography,  v.  9,  p.  15-35.  (Pub- 
lished separately.)     170. 

18856  The  lineal  measures  of  the  semi-civilized  nations  of  Mexico  and 
Central  America :  in  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical 
Society,  v.  22,  p.  194-207.  (Published  separately,  Philadel- 
phia, 1885.  8°,  14  p.  Republished  in  his  1890,  p.  433-451.) 
176. 

1886  The  conception  of  love  in  some  American  languages:    in  Pro- 

ceedings of  the  American  Philosophical  Society,  v.  23,  p.  546- 
561.  (Published  separately.  Philadelphia,  1886,  8°,  18  p.  and 
republished  in  his  1890,  p.  410-432.)    180. 

1887  Critical  remarks  on  the  editions  of  Diego  de  Landa's  writings: 

in  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical  Society,  v.  24, 
p.  1-8.  (Published  separately,  Philadelphia,  1887,  8°,  8  p.) 
180. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  227 

1888  On  the  Chane-abal  (four  language)  tribe  and  dialect  of  Chiapas: 
in  American  Anthropologist,  v.  1,  p.  77-96.  (Contains  Berendt 's 
comparative  vocabulary  (1870a)  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  96.)     178. 

1890  Essays  of  an  Americanist:   Philadelphia,  8°,  489  p.    This  con- 

tains, among  other  items,  the  following  articles:    his  18826, 
1882c,  1883,  1885,  18856,  1886,  1890a. 
1890a  Native  American  poetry:  in  his  1890,  p.  284-304.     193,  194. 

1891  The  American  race.    A  linguistic  classification  and  ethnographic 

description  of  the  native  tribes  of  North  and  South  America: 
New  York,  8°,  xvi,  392  p.  (Another  edition,  Philadelphia, 
1901.)  169. 
[1894]  A  primer  of  Maya  hieroglyphics:  Boston,  8°,  vi,  9,  152  p.  in 
Publications  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  Series  in  Philos- 
ophy, Literature  and  Archaeology,  v.  3,  n.  2.     176. 

1897  The  missing  authorities  on  Mayan  antiquities:    in  American 

Anthropologist,  v.  10,  p.  183-191.    151. 

1898  A  record  of  study  in  aboriginal  American  languages:    Media 

(Pa.),  8°,  24  p.     148. 

1900  Catalogue  of  the  Berendt  linguistic  collection:  in  Bulletin  of 
the  Free  Museum  of  Science  and  Art,  Philadelphia,v.  2,  n.  4. 
p.  203-234.     146,  157. 

1900a  Indians  of  Central  America:  in  (Appleton's)  Universal  Cyclo- 
pedia (New  edition),  New  York,  4°,  v.  6,  p.  206-208.     162. 

19006  Brinton  Memorial  meeting.  Report  of  the  memorial  meeting 
held  January  16,  1900,  under  the  auspices  of  the  American 
Philosophical  Society  ...  in  honor  of  the  late  Daniel  Garri- 
son Brinton,  M.D.:  Philadelphia,  8°,  67  p.  (Bibliography  of 
Brinton  by  Stewart  Culin,  p.  42-67).  148. 
British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society 

(1)  St.  John  III,  16,  in  most  of  the  languages  and  dialects  in  which 
the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  has  printed  or  circulated 
the  Holy  Scriptures:  London,  12°,  3-20  p.  (Enlarged  ed. 
London,  1878,  16°,  48  p.  1  f.)     200. 

BUSCHMANN,    JOHANN   KARL   EdUARD 

1853     Uber  den  Naturlaut:    in  Philologische  und  historische  Abhand- 
lungen  der  Koniglichen  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften  zu  Berlin 
(1852),  p.  391-423.    179. 
Byrne,  James 

1885     General  principles  of  the  structure  of  language :  London,  8°,  2  v. 
xxx,  504;    xvii,  396  p.     (2d  ed.  London,  1892,  8°,  xxx,  510; 
xvii,  404  p.)     164. 
Cacalchen,  Libro  de 

[Collection  of  legal  documents  in  Maya  dating  from  about  1646 
to  1826.]  4°,  MS.,  164  p.  (Owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced 
by  him.)     204. 


228  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Calero,  Vicente  and  Justo  Sierra 

[Articles  in  Museo  Yucateco  and  Registro  Yucateco.]     192. 
Calkini,  Chilam  Balam  de 

4°,  MS.,  15  ff.    (Gates  reproduction.    He  owns  a  copy,  8°,  13  p. 
also  reproduced  by  him.)     190. 
Campbell,  John 

1879  On  the  origin  of  some  American  Indian  tribes:  in  Proceedings  of 
the  Natural  History  Society  of  Montreal,  (n.  s.)  v.  9,  p.  65-80, 
193-212.  178,  179. 
1898-99  Decipherment  of  the  hieroglyphic  inscriptions  of  Central 
America:  in  Transaction*  of  the  Canadian  Institute,  v.  6,  p. 
101-244.  161. 
Canton  Rosado,  Francisco 

See  Rivero  Figueroa,  1918. 
Cardenas,  Francisco 
§  1639  Relation  de  la  conquista  y  sucesos  de  Yucatan,  para  el  uso  del 
Cronista  Mayor  de  las  Indias,  D.  Tomas  Tamayo  de  Vargas: 
(missing) .      169. 
Carrillo,  Estanislao 

(1)     [Translation  of  portion  of  Cronica  de  Mani:  see  Stephens,  1843, 
v.  2,  p.  265.]     205. 
Carrillo  y  Ancona,  Crescencio   147. 

1863  El  Repertorio  Pintoresco  6  Miscelanea  instructiva  y  amena  con- 
sagrada  a  la  religion,  la  historia  del  pais,  la  filosofia,  la  industria 
y  las  bellas  letras.  .  .  .  Redactor  D.  Crescencio  Carrillo: 
Merida,  8°,  586  p.     147. 

1865  Estudio  historico  sobre  la  raza  indfgena  de  Yucatan :  Vera  Cruz, 

8°,  26  p.     162. 

1866  Disertacion  sobre  la  literatura  y  civilizacion  antigua  de  Yucatan: 

Merida,  4°,  38  p.  (Republished  in  Boletin  de  la  Sociedad  de 
Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica  Mexicana  (2d  series), 
1871,  v.  3,  p.  257-271,  and  in  his  1883,  p.  555-590.)  162, 189, 
198. 
1868  Manuel  de  historia  y  geografia  de  la  peninsula  de  Yucatan:  in 
La  Peninsula,  Merida,  parts  1-5,  p.  1-162.  (Part  republished 
in  his  1883.)     157,  180,  185. 

1870  Disertacion  sobre  la  historia  de  la  lengua  Maya  6  Yucateca:  in 

La  Revista  de  Merida  (Alio  II).  Republished  in  Boletin  de  la 
Sociedad  de  Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica  Mexicana, 
(2d  series)  1872,  v.  4,  p.  134-195.  147,  151,  157  (2),  182, 185, 
187,  188,  189  (3),  190,  192,  193. 

1871  Compendio  de  la  historia  de  Yucatan,  precedido  del  de  su  geo- 

grafia y  dispuesto  en  forma  de  lecciones:    Merida,  16°,  xii, 
432  p.     157. 
1871a  Compendio  historico  de  Yucatan.    Resumen:   Merida,  8°,  64  p. 
157. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  229 

1872  Catalogo  de  las  principales  palabras  Mayas  usadas  en  el  Castel- 
lano  que  se  hable  en  el  estado  de  Yucatan.  (This  forms  the 
second  part  (p.  57-75)  of  Mendoza,  1872.)     178. 

1878-82  Historia  antigua  de  Yucatan:  in  Semanario  Yucateco,  Merida. 
(Other  editions  with  additions,  Merida,  1881  and  1883.  161, 
157,  162,  180,  186,  187,  190,  191,  194. 

1880  Quilich  xocbil-u-payalchi  ti  c-colebil  x-Zuhuy  Maria,  yetel  u 

chucaan  payalchiob  ualkezahantacob  ti  maya-dtan  tumen 
Don  Hoze  Leocadio  Andrade  u-mektan-pixnal  katunil  etel 
huntul  yetkinil:  Ho  (Merida),  16°,  31  (1)  p.  (This  was  written 
in  collaboration  with  Jose*  Leocadio  Andrade.)  199. 
[1880a]  Catecismo  de  historia  y  de  geografia  de  Yucatan:  Merida, 
16°,  95  p.  (This  is  an  abbreviated  edition  of  his  1871.  See 
also  1871a  and  1887.)    This  also  contains: 

Geografia  de  Yucatan  (p.  1-28).     (In  1887  ed.  Audomaro 

Molina  is  given  as  the  author.) 
Nota  sobre  la  ortologia  de  Yucatan  (p.  91-95).     168. 
18806  Sobre  la  historia  del  idioma  Yucateco  o  Maya:   Republished  in 
his  1883,  p.  624-631.     160. 

1881  Bibliotheca  de  autores  Yucatecos.  Tomo  I.   Historia  antigua  de 

Yucatan.  .  .  .  Segunda  de  las  disertaciones  del  mismo  autor 
relativas  al  proprio  asunto:  Merida,  sm.  4°,  504  +  p.  (This 
is  a  reissue  with  changes  of  several  previous  works :  1866;  1868; 
1878-82.    For  2d  edition  see  his  1883.) 

1882  Geografia  Maya:   in  Anales  del  Museo  National,  Mexico,  v.  2, 

p.  435-^38.    (Republished  in  his  1883,  p.  603-611.)     189  (2). 

1883  Historia  Antigua  de  Yucatan:     Merida,  16°,  670  p.    (This  is 

another  edition  of  his  1881.)  151,  160,  162,  168,  180,  185,  187, 
189  (2),  190,  191,  194,  198. 

1883a  Maya.    Etimologia  de  este  nombre :  in  his  1883,  p.  632-634.    180. 

1887  Compendio  de  la  historia  de  Yucatan  por  Carrillo  y  Ancona. 
Compendio  de  la  geografia  de  Yucatan  por  Audomaro  Molina : 
Merida,  16°,  96  p.  (This  is  an  enlarged  edition  of  1880a  with- 
out the  Nota  de  ortologia.  There  is  an  edition  of  the  Compendio  de 
la  historia:   Merida,  1904, 16°,  72  p.)  (Compare  Ancona,  1881.) 

1890  Estudio  fllologico  sobre  el  nombre  de  America  y  el  de  Yucatan: 
Merida,  8°,  54  p.  (Much  the  same  material  as  in  Chap.  5  in 
his  1883,  p.  133-141.)     180,  188. 

1892-95  El  obispado  de  Yucatan.  Historia  de  su  fundacion  y  de  sus 
obispos  desde  el  siglo  xvi  hasta  el  xix  seguida  de  las  consti- 
tuciones  sinodales  de  la  diocesis  y  otros  documentos  relativos. 
(Edicion  ilustrada) :  Merida,  4°,  2  v.  1-521,  522-1102  p.  (Sup- 
plements, 1896-97,  28  p.)  (First  published  in  La  Guirnalda.) 
147. 

[1893?]  Pronunciacion  de  las  letras  del  alfabeto  en  lengua  Maya, 
segun  el  Sr.  Obispo  de  Yucatan:  Copy,  4°,  MS.,  2  ff.  in  Pea- 
body  Museum.     168. 


230  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Carrillo  y  Ancona,  Crescencio  (continued). 
1897     Homenaies  funebres.    See  Anon,  1897a. 

(1)  Galeria  biografica-litografica  de  los  Senores  Obispos  de  Yucatan. 

Merida.     174. 

(2)  [Portion  of  a  letter  written  to  Pilling  regarding  the  authorship 

of  works  attributed  to  Henderson  and  Fletcher]:  in  Pilling, 
1885,  p.  258.     197. 

Carrillo  Suaste,  Fabian 
[1875]     D.  Juan  Pio  Perez.     Memoria  biografica:  in  Perez,  1866-77, 
p.  i-xx.     143. 

Carvajal,  Francisco 

(1)  Discurso  para  el  descendimiento  del  Senor  (en  Maya):    Early 

xix  century  MS.  in  Merida.  (Copy  by  Berendt,  1868a,  p.  77- 
116  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  46.  Reproduction  by 
Gates  of  Berendt  copy.)     202. 

(2)  [Collection  of  proverbs  in  Maya.]    Early  xix  century  MS.  (un- 

located).     202. 

Castillo,  Geronimo 
1861     Efemerides  hispano-mexicanas  6  calendario-historico  Yucateco: 

in  Repertorio  Pintoresco,  Merida.     157. 
1866     Diccionario   historico,   biografico   y   monumental   de   Yucatan, 
desde  la  conquista  hasta  el  ultimo  afio  de  la  dominacion  Espa- 
nola  en  el  pais:    Merida,  v.  1,  A-E,  12°,  vii,  9-315  p.    (Only 
volume  published.)     157  (2),  183,  186, 193. 

Cervera,  Jose  Tiburcio.     Translator. 

1803  Una  orden  (por  Benito  Perez)  de  Gobierno  de  Yucatan  respecto 
del  despacho  puntual  de  los  correos,  traducida  en  lengua  Maya. 
(Copy,  12°,  6  p.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  44-9.) 
206. 

Chacxulubchen,  Cronica  de 

See  Chicxulub,  Cronica  de 

Chadenat,  Charles.    Editor. 

1889  et  seq.    Le  bibliophile  americain.    Catalogue  de  livres,  etc.  relatifs 
a  .  .  .  l'Amerique.     Archeologie,  histoire,  geographie,  ethno- 
graphic, linguistique,  voyages,  etc.    Bulletin  trimestriel. 
(Numerous  sale  catalogues.)     158. 

Chan,  Florencio  and  others 

1850  Propositiones  de  los  Indios  sublevados  para  un  armisticio  y 
tratado  de  paz  en  carta  dirigida  al  Cura  de  Chimax.  MS. 
Cruzctun.  (Copy,  12°,  15  p.  from  original  in  Coleccion  de 
Documentos  para  la  Historia  de  la  Guerra,  formerly  in  posses- 
sion of  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection  No. 
44-11.)     206. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  231 

Charencey  [Charles  Felix  Hyacinthe  Gouhier]  Comte  de 

1866    Introduction  a  une  etude  comparative  sur  les  langues  de  la  famille 

Maya-Quiche:  Paris  (in  Avant  Propos,  p.  32-37.)     167. 
1871     Le  my  the  de  Votan.    Etude  sur  les  origin  es  asiatiques  de  la  civili- 
sation americaine:   in  Actes  de  la  Societe  Philologique,  Paris, 
v.  2,  ii,  7-144  p.    (Published  separately.)     179. 

1873  Recherches  sur  une  ancienne  prophetie  en  langue  Maya  (Napuc- 

tun) :  in  Revue  de  Linguistique  et  de  Philologie  Comparee,  v.  6, 
p.  42-61.     194. 

1874  Essai  d 'analyse  grammaticale  d'un  texte  en  langue  Maya:    in 

Memoires  de  V  Academic  Nationale  des  Sciences,  Arts  et  Belles- 
Lettres  de  Caen,  p.  142-161.  (Published  separately,  Le  Havre, 
1875,  8°,  9  p.)     185. 

1875  Fragment  de  chrestomathie  de  la  langue  Maya  antique:    in 

Revue  de  Philologie  et  d' Ethnographic,  v.  1,  p.  259-264.  (Pub- 
lished separately,  Paris,  1875,  8°,  8  p.)     194. 

1876  Etude  sur  la  prophetie  en  langue  Maya  d'Ah  Kuel-Chel:    in 

Revue  de  Linguistique  et  de  Philologie  Comparee,  v.  8,  p.  320- 
332.    (Published  separately,  Paris,  1876,  8°,  15  p.    Republished 
in  his  1883,  p.  141-150.)     194. 
1878    Des  animaux  symboliques  dans  leur  relation  avec  les  points  de 
l'espace  chez  les  Americaines:  Paris,  8°,  19  p.     182. 

1880  Des  expletives  numerates  dans  les  dialectes  de  la  famille  Maya- 

Quichee:  in  Revue  de  Linguistique  et  de  Philologie  Comparee, 
v.  13,  p.  339-386.     (Published  separately,  Paris,  1880.)    182. 

1881  Des  signes  de  numeration  en  Maya :  in  Actes  de  la  Societe  Philolo- 

gique, v.  8,  p.  230-234.  (Published  separately,  Alencon,  1881, 
8°,  7  p.)     181. 

1882  Recherches  sur  les  noms  des  points  de  l'espace :  Caen,  8°,  86  p. 

180. 
1882a  Du  systeme  de  numeration  chez  les  peuples  de  la  famille  Maya- 
Quiche:  in  Le  Museon.    Revue  des  Sciences  et  des  Lettres,  Paris, 
v.  1,  p.  256-261.     (Published  separately,  Louvain,  1882,  8°, 
8  p.     Republished  in  his  1883,  p.  151-157.)     182. 

1883  Melanges  de  philologie  et  de  paleographie  americaines:    Paris: 

8°,  2,  195  p.  166,  167.  Among  other  items,  this  volume  con- 
tains the  following: 

Sur  le  sj^steme  de  numeration  (see  1882a). 
Etude  sur  la  prophetie  (see  1876). 

Sur  le  pronom  personnel  dans  les  idiomes  de  la  famille  Maya- 
Quiche,  p.  123-139.      167. 
Sur  les  lois  phonetiques  dans  les  idiomes  de  la  famille  Mame- 
Huasteque,  p.  89-121. 
1883a  Vocabulaire  Francais-Maya :   in  Actes  de  la  Societe  Philologique, 
v.   13,  p.   1-87.     (Published  separately,  Alengon,   1884,  8°, 
87  p.)     176. 


232  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Charencey  [Charles  Felix  Hyacinthe  Gouhier]  Comte  de  (contin'd). 

18836  Recherches  sur  les  noms  de  nombres  cardinaux  dans  la  famille 
Maya-Quiche:  in  Revue  de  Linquistique  et  de  Philologie  Com- 
paree,  v.  16,  p.  325-339.  (Published  separately,  Paris,  8°,  15  p.) 
180,  182. 

1883-84  De  la  conjugaison  dans  les  langues  de  la  famille  Maya-Quiche : 
in  Le  Museon.  Revue  des  Sciences  et  des  Lettres,  Paris,  v.  2, 1883, 
p.  575-595;  v.  3,  1884,  p.  40-72,  280-293,  464-488.  (Pub- 
lished separately,  Louvain,  1885,  8°,  130  p.)     165,  167. 

1884  De  la  formation  des  mots  en  langue  Maya:  in  Proceedings  of  the 
5th  International  Congress  of  Americanists,  Copenhagen  (1883), 
p.  379-426.     (Published  separately,  Copenhagen,  1884.)    167. 

1891  Chrestomathie  Maya  d'apres  la  chronique  de  Chac-Xulub-Chen. 

Extrait  de  la  "  Library  of  Aboriginal  American  Literature  " 
de  M.  le  Dr.  D.  G.  Brinton.  Texte  avec  traduction  inter- 
lineaire,  analyse  grammaticale  et  vocabulaire  maya-f rancaise : 
in  Actes  de  la  Societe  Philologique,  v.  19,  20.  (Published 
separately,  Paris,  1891,  8°,  viii,  301  p.)     176,  203. 

1892  Les  noms  des  metaux  chez  differents  peuples  de  la  Nouvelle 

Espagne:   Paris,  8°,  14  p.    (Republished,  in  part,  in  his  1894, 

p.  346-349.)    180. 
1892a  2d  edition  of  Ruz,  1847;  in  Actes  de  la  Societe  Philologique,  (1891) 

v.  21,  p.  157-207.     (Published  separately,  Alencon,  1892,  8°, 

51  p.)     197. 
1894    Le  folklore  dans  les  deux  mondes:   Paris,  8°.  424  p.    159. 
1896     Melanges  sur  quelques  dialectes  de  la  famille  Maya-Quichee : 

in  Journal  de  la  Societe  des  Arnericanistes,  Paris,  v.  1,  p.  43-60. 

(Published  separately,  Paris,  1897.)    166.    Among  other  items 

this  paper  contains  the  following: 

Rectification  d'  un  texte  en  langue  Maya.     186. 
Des  voix  verb  ales  en  Maya.     167. 
1899    Noms  des  points  de  Tespace  dans  divers  dialectes  americains :  in 

Journal  de  la  Societe  des  Arnericanistes,  Paris. v.2,  p. 109-178. 180. 
Chavero,  Alfredo. 

1887     Historia  antigua  y  de  la  conquista.    See  Riva  Palacio,  1887-88, 

v.  1.     189,  190. 
Ch6,  Gon^alo  and  others. 

1877     Carta  de  diez  caciques  de  Nueva  Espafia,  k  S.  M.  el  Rey  Don 

Felipe  II,  pidiendo  de  la  orden  de  San  Francisco,  Yucatan,  11 

de  febrero  de  1567:  in  Cartas  de  Indias,  Madrid,  folio,  p.  307- 

308  and  facsimile.     206. 

Chicxulub,  Cronica  de 

1542-62  4°,  MS.  26  p.,  copy  owned  in  Merida  (Gates  reproduction). 
(Notes  on  this  MS.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  43-4, 
copied  by  C.  P.  Bowditch,  reproduced  by  Gates.  Other  notes 
in  Berendt  Collection  No.  50-35.  See  Perez  (2).  This  MS. 
written  by  Nakuk  and  Pablo  Pech.)     202. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  233 

Chumayel,  Book  of  Chilam  Balam  of 

1913  Sm.  4°,  MS.  107  p.  Published  in  Anthropological  Publications  of 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  v.  5,  Philadelphia.  George 
Byron  Gordon,  editor.  (There  is  a  copy  by  Berendt,  1868,  in 
the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  49.  Gates  owns  a 
second  copy,  8°,  55  ff.,  reproduced  by  him.)  180, 187. 
Ciudau  Real,  Antonio  de 

§  (1)     Gran  diccionario  6  calepino  de  la  lengua  Maya  de  Yucatan:  MS. 

4°,  6  v.    xvi  century  (missing).     170. 
§  (2)     Diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya:   MS.  xvi  century  (missing). 

170. 
§  (3)     Tratado  curioso  de  las  grandezas  de  Nueva  Esparia:   MS.  xvi 

century  (missing).      170. 
§  (4)     Sermones  de  Santos  en  lengua  Maya:  MS.  xvi  century  (missing). 
201. 
Civezza,  Marcellino  da 

1879    Saggio  di  bibliografia,  geografica,  storica,  etnografica,  San  Fran- 
cescana:    4°,  xv,  698  p.     (This  is  the   geographical  part  of 
Wadding  and  Sboralen's  Scriptores  ordinis  minorum).    151, 154. 
Clarke,  Hyde 

1877  The  Khita  and  Khita-Peruvian  epoch:  Khita,  Hamath,  Hittite, 

Canaanite,  Etruscan,  Peruvian,  Mexican,  etc.:    London,  8°, 
vii,  88  p.     179. 
Clarke  and  Co.,  Robert.     Editors. 

1878  Bibliotheca  Americana;    catalogue  of  a  valuable  collection  of 

books  and  pamphlets  relating  to  America:    Cincinnati,   8°. 
(4),  262,  (2),  64  p.  Other  sale  catalogues,  1879,  1883,  etc.   158. 
Clavigero,  Francesco  Saverio 

1780-81  Storia  antica  del  Messico,  cavata  da'  migliori  storici  spagnuoli 
e  da'  manoscritti  e  dalle  pitture  antiche  degP  Indiani;  divisa  in 
dieci  libri  e  corredata  di  carte  geografiche  e  di  varie  figure  e 
dissertazioni  sulla  terra,  sugli  animali  e  sugli  abitatori  del 
Messico;  Cesena,  4°,  4  v.  vii,  302  p.  4  pis.;  276  p.  17  pis.; 
260  p.  lpl.;  331  p.  Spanish  ed.  London,  1826,  8°,  2  v.  Among 
other  editions,  London,  1787,  (English),  4°,  2  v.;  Leipzig,  1789, 
(German);  Richmond,  Va.;  1806,  London,  1807,  Philadelphia 
1817,  (English);  London,  1826,  (Italian);  Mexico,  1844  and 
1853;  Jacapa,  1868,  (Spanish).  1st  ed.  v.  4  (1781)  p.  262-263 
has  the  following: 

Catologo  d'alcuni  autori  Europei  e  Creogli,  che  hanno  scritto 
delta  dottrina  e  morale  Christiana  ftelle  lingue  delta  Nuova  Spagna. 
Ed.  1826,  v.  2,  p.  396  and  later  Spanish  editions  have  the 
following: 

Catalogo  de  algunos  autores  Europeos  y  Criollos  que  han  esciito 
sobre  la  doctrina  y  moral  cristianas  en  las  lenguas  de  Anahuac. 
150,  154. 


234  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

COCOMES,    LlBRO   DE    LOS 

See  Cacalchen,  Libro  de 
Codice  Anomino 

See  Tizimin,  Chilam  Balam  de 
Cogolludo,  Diego  Lopez 

1688  Historia  de  Yucathan:  Madrid,  4°,  15,  760  (31)  p.  (2d  ed.  with 
title.  Los  tres  siglos  de  la  dominacion  espanola  en  Yucatan  6 
sea  historia  de  esta  provincia  desde  la  conquista  hasta  la  inde- 
pendencia,  etc.:  Campeche,  1842,  Merida,  1845,  8°,  2  v., 
(Justo  Sierra,  editor) :  3d  ed.  with  title,  Historia  de  Yucatan, 
escrita  en  el  sigh  xvii.  Merida,  1867-68,  8°,  2  v.)  150,  153, 
180,  193. 
Colecci6n  de  Documentos 

1898-1900  Coleccion  de  documentos  ineditos  relativos  al  descubri- 
miento,  conquista  y  organization  de  las  antiguas  posesiones 
Espanoles  de  Ultramar.  (2d  series),  v.  11,  13.  Relaciones  de 
Yucatan:  Madrid,  8°,  xl,  436;  xvi,  414  p.  (Jose  Maria  Ascen- 
sio,  editor.)  161, 177. 
Coronel,  Juan 

1620  Arte  en  lengua  de  Maya  recopilado  y  enmendado:  Mexico,  24°, 
54  ff.    [Gates  reproduction.]     163, 172. 

1620a  Doctrina  Christiana  en  lengua  de  Maya:  Mexico,  16°,  27  ff. 
(Gates  reproduction.  4  ff.  at  end  contain  contents  of  Coronel, 
16206.)     197. 

16206  Discursos  predicables,  con  otras  diversas  materias  espirituales, 
con  la  Doctrina  Christiana,  y  los  articulos  de  la  Fe,  recopilados 
y  enmendados  [en  lengua  Yucateca]:  Mexico,  16°,  8,  240  ff. 
(ff.  73-80  are  mispaged  as  83-90).  (Gates  reproduction.)  197, 
201. 

§  (1)     Vocabulario  Maya:   MS.  xvii  century  (missing).    172. 

§  (2)     Doctrina  Christiana,  MS.  xvii  century  (missing  ?).     197. 

§  (3)     Confesionario  6  instrucciones  para  los  nuevos  ministros,  en  lengua 
Maya:  MS.  xvii  century  (missing).     198. 
Cortes,  Hernando 

1852  Cartas  [1st  letter  lost.]  In  its  place  the  letter  of  the  Municipality 
of  Vera  Cruz,  dated  July  10,  1519,  may  be  substituted.  This 
printed  in  Coleccion  de  Documentos  Ineditos  para  la  Historia  de 
Espana,  v.  1,  and  in  Historiadores  primitivos  de  Indias:  Madrid 
1852,  v.  1.  (See  MacNutt  ed.  of  letters,  New  York,  1908, 
8°,  v.  1,  p.  123-182.)     180. 

1866     Cartas  y  relaciones  al  Emperador  Carlos  V:  Paris,  8°,  li,  575  p. 
(Best  edition  by  MacNutt,  New  York  and  London,  1908,  8°, 
2  v.  xi,  354;  vii,  374  p.)     180. 
Crowe,  Frederick 

1850  The  Gospel  in  Central  America;  containing  a  sketch  of  the 
country  ...  a  histor}^  of  the  Baptist  mission  in  British  Hon- 
duras, etc.:  London,  12°,  xii,  588  p.     199. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  235 

Cruz,  Juan 

1571     Catecismo  en  lengua  Maya:  Mexico  (also  1639  ed.)  [?]     196. 
Cubas,  Antonio  Garcia 

See  Garcia  Cubas,  Antonio 
Cuartas,  Julian  de 
§  (1)     Arte  compendiado  de  la  lengua  Maya:  MS.  xvn  century,  (miss- 
ing).    163. 
D.  Do 

[Initials  of  writers  on  Maya  language  in  Repertorio  Pintoresco,  of 
Merida]. 
Diaz  del  Castillo,  Bernal 

1632  Historia  verdadera  de  la  conquista  de  la  Nueva-Esparia,  escrita 
por  el  Capitan  Bernal  Diaz  del  Castillo,  uno  de  sus  conquista- 
dores:  Madrid,  4°,  6  p.  254  ff.  (11)  p.  (Numerous  other  edi- 
tions, the  best  of  which  is  that  by  Maudslay,  published  by 
the  Hakluyt  Society,  London,  1908-16,  8°,  5  v.)     180. 

DlCCIONARIO  HlSTORICO,  BlOGRAFICO  Y  MONUMENTAL  DE  YUCATAN. 

See  Castillo,  1866. 
Diccionario  Universal  de  Historia  y  Geographia.     186. 
Dominguez,  Jose 

[Given  by  Clavigero  as  a  writer  on  Maya.]     152. 
Dominguez  y  Argaiz,  Francisco  Eugenio 

1758  Platicas  de  los  principales  mysterios  de  nuestra  Santa  Fee,  con 
una  breve  exortacion  al  fin  del  modo  con  que  deben  excitarse 
al  dolor  de  las  culpas.  Hechas  en  el  idioma  Yucateco :  Mexico, 
8°,  5  ff.,  24  p.  1  f.  (Gates  reproduction.  Copy  by  Berendt  ip 
1868a,  p.  1-76.)  201. 
Donde,  Joaquin  y  Donde,  Juan 

1876     Lecciones  de  Botanica,  arregladas  segun  los  principios  admitidos 
por  Guibourt   Richard   Duchartre,   etc.:    Merida,   8°,   xxiii, 
259  p.    (Maya  names  prepared  by  Thomas  Aznar  Barbachano.) 
176. 
Douay,  Leon 

1891     Etudes   etymologiques   sur   Tantiquite   americaine:    Paris,    8°, 

158  p.     180. 
1894    Affinites  lexicologique  du  Haitien  et  du  Maya :  in  Proceedings  of 
the  10th  International  Congress  of  Americanists,   Stockholm, 
p.  191-208.     161, 179. 
1900    Nouvelles  recherches  philologiques  sur  Tantiquite  americaine: 

Paris,  8°,  188  p.  160,  161, 179. 
1905  De  la  non-parente  de  certaines  langues  de  l'ancien  monde  (en 
particulier  du  japonais)  avec  celles  du  Nouveau,  etspeciale- 
ment,  du  groupe  Maya:  in  Proceedings  of  the  13th  International 
Congress  of  Americanists,  New  York  (1902),  p.  245-247.  161. 
(1)  Memoire  sur  les  affinites  du  Maya  avec  certaines  langues  de 
l'Amerique  Me>idionale:  8°,  17  p.  (reprint).     161,  179. 


236  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

DUSAERT,    [EdOUARD]    Le    COLONEL 

1882    La  carie  americaine,  mere,  en  civilisation  de  l'antique  Egypte 
d'apres  les  documents  de  M.  TAbbe  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg: 
Paris,  8°,  64  p.     160. 
Ebtun,  Titulos  de 

4°,  Mssel.  MSS.  en  lengua  Maya.    324  p.  dating  from  about  1638 
to  1829.    (Gates  reproduction.)     204. 

ECHANO,    AGUSTIN   DE 

1758    Aprobacion:  in  Dominguez,  1758.     183. 
Eguiara  et  Eguren,  Juan  Jose  de 

1755  Bibliotheca  Mexicana,  sive  eruditorum  historia  virorum,  qui 
in  America  Boreali  nati,  vel  alibi  geniti  in  ipsam  domicilio  aut 
studijs  asciti,  quavis  lingua  scripto  aliquid  tradiderunt:  v.  1, 
A.  B.  C.:  Mexico,  4°,  80  ff.,  543  p.  (Other  portions  exist 
in  manuscript.)  151,  163. 
Eichhorn,  Albert 

1896  Naual;  oder  Die  hohe  Wissenschatft  (scientia  mirabilis)  der 
architectonischen  und  kiinstlerischen  Composition  bei  den 
Maya-Volkern,  deren  Descendenten  und  Schiilern :  Berlin,  4°, 
126  p.  177. 
1905  Die  Hieroglyphen-Bildschrift  der  Maya-Volker  in  ihrer  stufen- 
weisen  Entwickelung  bis  zur  Ornamentbildschrift  dargestellt 
und  an  den  Hieroglyphen  der  20  Monatstage  erlautert:  Berlin, 
4°,  iv.  236  (2),  p.  177. 
Espinosa,  Calendario  de 

Annual  publication,  Merida.      158. 
Ferraz,  Juan  Fernandez 

1902     Lengua  Quiche.    Sinopsis  de  constitutiva  gramatical,  1897-1902: 
San  Jose  de  Costa  Rica,  12°,  153  p.     179. 
Field,  Thomas  Warren 

1873  An  essay  towards  an  Indian  bibliography.  Being  a  catalogue  of 
books,  relating  to  the  .history,  antiquities,  languages,  customs, 
religion,  wars,  literature,  and  origin  of  the  American  Indians, 
etc.:  New  York,  8°,  iv,  430  p.  164. 
1875  Catalogue  of  his  library:  New  York,  8°,  viii,  376  p.  (Sale  cata- 
logue.) 164,  158. 
[Fischer,  Augustin] 

1869  Bibliotheca  Mejicana.  A  catalogue  of  an  extraordinary  collec- 
tion of  books  relating  to  Mexico  and  North  and  South  America, 
from  the  first  introduction  of  printing  in  the  New  World,  a.d. 
1544  to  a.d.  1868.  Collected  during  20  years'  official  residence 
in  Mexico:  London,  8°,  312  p.  (p.  229  has  title:  Valuable 
•  books  relating  to  the  history,  literature,  and  dialects  of  North 
and  South  America,  comprising  the  libraries  of  the  late  Dr. 
Berendt  of  Vera  Cruz,  and  that  of  an  official  personage  for 
many  years  resident  in  the  West  Indies).  (Sale  catalogue.) 
155,  158. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  237 

Fiske,  John 

1892     The  discovery  of  America  with  some  account  of  ancient  America 
and  the  Spanish  Conquest:   Boston  and  New  York,  12°,  2  v. 
(Other  editions.)    203. 
[Fletcher,  Richard]     145. 

1865  Breve  devocionario  para  todos  los  dias  de  la  semana.  Payalchioob 
utial  tulacal  le  u  kiniloob  ti  le  semana:  London,  16°,  17  ff. 
202. 
1865a  Cateeismo  de  los  Metodistas.  No.  1,  Para  los  ninos  de  tierna 
edad.  Cateeismo  ti  le  metodistaoob.  No.  2,  Utial  mehen 
palaloob:   London,  16°,  17  ff.     (Gates  reproduction.)     197. 

1868  [A  tentative  edition  in  Maya  of  St.  John's  Gospel,  published  by 

the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society.]    (See  Fletcher,  1869.) 
200. 

1869  Leti  u  ebanhelio  Hezu  Crizto  Hebix  Huan :  London,  16°,  83  p.  200. 
1900    Leti  u  ebanhelio  Hezu    Crizto    Heliz    Marcoz:    London,   16°, 

67  p.     200. 
1900a  Leti  u  ebanhelio  Hezu  Crizto  Hebix  Mateo:  London,  16°,  104  p. 
200. 

FUERTES,    E.   A. 

(1)     Vocabularies  of  the   Chimalapa  or    Zoque:    Guichicovian;   or 
Mixe;    Zapoteco;    and  Maya;   200  words  each,  accompanied 
by  grammatic  notes:   4°,  MS.  17  ff.  in  Bureau  of  Ethnology 
MSS.  Collection,  Washington.    (Copy  by  Berendt.)    178. 
Gabelentz,  [Hans]  Georg  [Conon]  von  der 

1881     Die  Sprachwissenschaft,  ihre  Aufgaben,  Methoden  und  bisheri- 
gen  Ergebnisse:  Leipzig,  8°,  xx,  502  p.     166. 
Gala,  Leandro  Rodriguez  de  la 

See  Vales,  1870. 
Galindo,  Juan 

1832  Memoire  de  M.  Galindo,  officier  superieur  de  la  Republique  de 
l'Amerique  Centrale,  adresse  a  M.  le  Secretaire  de  la  Societe  de 
Geographie  de  Paris :  in  Bulletin  de  la  Societe  de  Geographie  de 
Paris,  v.  18,  p.  198-214.  (Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  42-6.)  181,  199. 
1834  Description  of  the  river  Usumasinta  in  Guatemala:  in  Proceed- 
ings of  the  Royal  Geographical  Society,  v.  3,  p.  59-64,  (1833). 
(French  trans,  in  Nouvelles  Annates  des  Voyages,  3d  series: 
Paris.  1834,  v.  3,  p,  147-151.  178. 
Gallatin,  Albert 

1845    Notes  on  the  semi-civilized  nations  of  Mexico,  Yucatan  and  of 
Central  America;  in  Transactions  of  the  American  Ethnological 
Society,  v.  1,  p.  1-352.     165,  166,  167,  168,  178,  182, 186. 
Gann,  Thomas  W.  F. 

1918  The  Maya  Indians  of  southern  Yucatan  and  northern  British 
Honduras:  in  Bureau  of  Ethnology ,  Washington.  Bulletin  64, 
8°,  146  p.  28  pis.     207. 


238  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Garcia,  Genaro 

1898    See  Spencer,  1873-1910. 
Garcia,  Gregorio 

1607  Origen  de  los  Indios  de  el  Nuevo  Mundo  e  Indias  Occidentales 
averiguado  con  discurso  de  opiniones  por  el  padre  presentado 
fray  Gregorio  Garcia  de  la  orden  de  Predicadores.  Tratanse  en 
este  libro  varias  cosas,  y  puntos  curiosos,  tocantes  a  diversas 
ciencias  y  facultades,  con  que  se  haze  varia  historia,  de  mucho 
gusto  para  el  ingenio  y  entendimiento  de  hombres  agudos  y 
curiosos:  Valencia.  (2d  ed.  Madrid,  1729,  26,  336,  (80)  p.) 
153. 
Garcia,  [Manuel] 

1856    El  toro  de  Sinkeuel.    Leyenda  hipica,   politico-tauromaquica : 
Merida,  24°,  32  p.     206. 
Garcia  Cubas,  Antonio 

1876    The  Republic  of  Mexico  in  1876.    A  political  and  ethnographical 
division  of  the  population,  character,  habits,  costumes,  and 
vocations  of    its  inhabitants.     Translated  into  English  by 
George  E.  Henderson:   Mexico,  8°,  130  p.    1  f .  8  p.  of  music, 
8  pis.  map.     159. 
1884    Cuadro  geogrdfico,  estadistico,  descriptivo  e  historico  de  los 
Estados  Unidos  Mexicanos:    Mexico,   8°,     xxxi,  474,  iii  p.   1 
map.  1  pi.,  3  tab.    (Another  edition,  Mexico,  1885.)    159. 
1888-91     Diccionario  geografico,  historico,  y  biografico  de  los  Estados 
Unidos  Mexicanos:    Mexico,  4°,  5  v.     159. 
Garcia  y  Garcia,  Apolinar 

1865    Historia  de  la  guerra  de  castas  en  Yucatan:  Merida,  4°.     162. 
Garcia  Icazbalceta,  Joaquin 

See  Icazbalceta,  Joaquin  Garcia. 
Gates,  William  [E.]     148. 

1914  Concepts  linguistiques  dans  l'Am£rique  ancienne:    in  Compte 

Rendu,  Congres  International  d' Anthropologic  et  d' Archeologie 
Prehistoriques,  14th  Session,  Geneva  (1912),  v.  2,  p.  341-348. 
167. 

1915  The  unpublished  material  in  the  Mayance  and  southern  Mexican 

languages:  8°,  MS.  22  IT.  (Prepared  for  the  meeting  of  the 
Archaeological  Institute  of  America.  San  Francisco,  1915.) 
157. 

1920  The  distribution  of  the  several  branches  of  the  Mayance  linguis- 
tic stock:  in  Morley,  1920.  Appendix  12,  p.  604-615.  160, 
168. 

1920a  [Transcription  and  translation  with  notes  of  page  66  of  the 
Cronica  de  Oxkutzcab]:   in  Morley,  1920,  p.  507-509.     204. 

19206  [Transcription  and  translation  of  p.  85  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de 
Chumayel]:  in  Morley,  1920,  p.  485.     189. 
(1)    Apuntes  para  el  arte  de  la  lengua  Maya:  4°,  MS.  7  ff.     167. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  239 

(2)  [Finding  list  of  MSS.  and  printed  material  on  the  languages  of 

the  Maya  stock]:   4°,  MS.  56  ff.     157. 

(3)  [Maya  pronunciation  and  alphabet]:  4°,  MS.  5  ff.     168. 

(4)  Photographic  reproductions  of  Maya  manuscripts  and  books. 

For  list,  see  p.  148-149- 
Gatschet,  Albert  S[amuel] 

1879  Perez'  Maya-Spanish  dictionary:  in  American  Antiquarian,  v.  2, 
p.  30-32.     175. 

1883  Native  American  languages:  in  The  Critic,  New  York,  v.  3.  No. 
61,  p.  96-97.  (Review  of  Perez,  1866-77  and  Brinton,  1882.) 
175. 

1900    Central-Amerikas  Sprachstamme  und  Dialekte:  in  Globus,  v.  77, 
n.  5;  p.  81-84.     159. 
Gerrodette,  Frank  Honore 

1891-92    The  linguistic  stocks  of  the  Indians  of  Mexico  and  Central 
America:  sm.  4°,  MS.  320  p.    Index  and  map.    (In  Peabody 
Museum.)     159. 
Gomara,  Francisco  Lopez  de 

1553  Hispania  Victrix.  Primera  y  segvnda  parte  de  la  historia  general 
de  las  Indias  co  todo  el  descubrimiento,  y  cosas  notables  que 
han  acaescido  dende  que  se  ganaron  hasta  el  afio  de  1551 : 
Medina  del  Campo,  folio,  cxxii,  cxxxix  ff.  (There  was  evi- 
dently another  edition,  with  slightly  different  title,  published 
in  Zaragoza  in  1553.  Also  numerous  other  editions.)  (See 
Barcia,  1749.)  180. 
Gomez  de  Parada,  Juan 

1722  Constituciones  Sinodales  dispuestas  por  el  orden  de  Libros  y 
Titulos  y  Santos  Decretos  del  Concilio  Mexicano  III  para  el 
Obispado  de  Yucatan  por  "su  Obispo  el  Yllmo-  Sor-  Dv-  Dn 
Juan  Gomez  de  Parada  del  Consejo  de  su  Magd-  en  el  Sinodo 
que  comenzo  en  su  Yglecia  Catedral,  el  dia  seis  de  Agto-  de  mil 
setecientos  veinte  y  dos,  y  se  finalizo  el  dia  primero  de 
Obre-  del  mismo  afio:   fol.  454  p.     139. 

Gordon,  George  Byron.    Editor. 

1913     See  Chumayel,  Book  of  Chilam  Balam  of 
Gordon,  James  Bentley 

1820    An  historical  and  geographical  memoir  of  the  North  American 
continent,  its  nations  and  tribes:  Dublin,  4°,  civ,  x,  305  p.    161. 
Granado  Baeza,  Bartolome  Jose 

1845    Los  indios  de  Yucatan.    Informe  dado  por  el  cura  de  Yaxcaba" 
en  contestacion  al  interrogatorio  de  36  preguntas,  etc.:    in 
Registro  Yucateco,  v.  1,  p.  165-178.    (Written  in  1813.)     161, 
206. 
Guerra,  Jose  Maria 
See  Vela,  1848. 


240  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Haebler,  Karl 

1895  Die  Maya-Litteratur  und  der  Maya-Apparat  zu  Dresden:  in 
Centralblatt  fur  Bibliothekswesen,  v.  12,  part  12,  p.  537-576. 
156. 

[Hamy,  Ernest  Theodore] 

1909  Catalogue  de  la  bibliotheque  de  feu  M.  le  Docteur  E.  T.  Hamy: 
Paris,  8°,  118  p.    (Sale  catalogue.)    158. 

Harrisse,  Henry 

1866  Bibliotheca  americana  vetustissima.  A  description  of  works  re- 
lating to  America  published  between  the  years  1492  and  1551 : 
New  York,  1.  8°,  liv,  519  p.  (Additions,  Paris,  1872,  1.  8°,  xl, 
199  p.)     164. 

Heller,  Carl  Bartholomaeus 

1853  Reisen  in  Mexiko  in  den  Jahren  1845-48:  Leipzig,  8°,  xxiv, 
432  p.  1  pi.  1  map.     165,  178,  182. 

Henderson,  Alexander    145. 
[1852]   The  Maia  primer:  Birmingham,  16°,  12  p.    (Berendt,  1867,  gives 

the  date  as  1863.)     166. 
1859-66    A  Maya  dictionary  of  the  language  as  spoken  in  the  District 

of  Bacalar,  Yucatan.    MS.  6  v.  averaging  250  pages  each.    3  v. 

Maya-English;   3  v.  English-Maya:   in  Bureau  of  Ethnology 

library.     (See  note  in  American  Anthropologist  (n.  s.)  1900. 

v.  2,  p.  403-404.     174. 
1870    Ebanhilio  Hezu-Clizto  hebix  Zan  Lucaz:    London,   16°,   14  p. 

(Four  chapters  of  St.  Luke  as  translated  by  Ruz,  1,  published 

by  Kingdon,  1865,  and  corrected  by  Henderson.)     200. 
§  (1)     Book  of  Genesis  in  Maya.     MS.  (according  to  Berendt,  1867, 

p.  420).     [?]     200. 
§  (2)     The  Psalms  in  Maya.    MS.  (according  to  Berendt,  1867,  p.  420). 

[?]     200. 
§  (3)     Translation  of  Beltran's  grammar  into  English.     (According  to 

Berendt,  1867,  p.  420.    [?]    See  Kingdon,  1.)     165. 

Hernandez,  Pedro  M. 

1905  De  los  primeros  habitantes  de  la  venturosa  Yucateca,  traducido 
de  la  Maya  al  Castellano:  Merida,  8°  (5  parts  in  one.  Maya 
and  Spanish  text).     207. 

Herranz  y  Quiros,  Diego  Narciso 

1834  Compendio  mayor  de  gramatica  Castellana  para  uso  de  los  nifios 
que  concurren  a  las  escuelas:  Madrid.  (9th  ed.  Madrid,  1858.) 
(This  is  the  Spanish  grammar  translated  into  Maya  by  Ruz, 
1844.    See  Narciso,  1838.)     166. 

Herrera,  Alfonso  L.  and  Cicero,  Ricardo  E. 

1895  Catalogo  de  la  colecion  de  anthropologia  del  Museo  Nacional  de 
Mexico:  Mexico,  8°,  viii,  164  p. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  241 

Herrera  [y  Tordesillas],  Antonio  de 
1601-15.    Historia  general  de  los  hechos  de  los  Castellanos  en  las  islas 
i  tierra  firme  del  mar  oceano  en  quatro  decadas  desde  el  ano 
de  1492  hasta  el  de  1531:   Madrid,  4°,  8  pt.    (Other  editions.) 
The  original  edition  contains  the  following: 
Los  Au tores  impresos,  y  de  mano,  que  han  escrito  cosas 
particulares  de  las  Indias  Occidentales.     153. 

Hervas  y  Panduro,  Lorenzo 

1784  Catalogo  delle  lingue  conosciute  e  notizia  delle  loro  affinita  e 

diversita  .  .  .  :  Cesena,  4°,  260  p.  (V.  17.  Idea  delVUni- 
verso.)     154, 158. 

1785  Origine,    formazione,    meccanismo,    ed    armonia    degP    idiomi: 

Cesena,  4°,  180  p.    18  ff.    (V.  18.    Idea  delVUniverso.)     179. 

1786  Aritmetica  delle  nazioni  e  divisione  del  tempo  fra  l'Orientali: 

Cesena,  4°,  206  p.    (V.  19.    Idea  delVUniverso.)     182. 

1787  Saggio  pratico  delle  lingue  con  prolegomeni,  e  una  raccolta  di 

orazioni  Dominican'  in  piu  di  trecento  lingue,  e  dialetti  con  cui 
si  dimostra  Pinfusione  del  primo  idioma  dell'uman  genere,  e  la 
confusione  delle  lingue  in  esso  poi  succeduta,  e  si  additano  la 
diramazione,  e  dispersione  della  nazioni  con  molti  risultati 
utili  alia  storia:  Cesena,  4°,  256  p.  (V.  21.  Idea  delV  Uni- 
verso.)     199. 

1787a  Vocabolario  poligloto  con  proligomeni  sopra  piu  di  CL.  lingue. 
Dove  sono  delle  scoperte  nuove,  ed  utili  alPantica  storia 
dell'uman  genere,  ed  alia  cognizione  del  meccanismo  delle 
parole:  Cesena,  4°,  247  p.    (V.  20.    Idea  delV  Universo.)    179. 

1800-05  Catalogo  de  las  lenguas  de  las  naciones  conocidas,  y  numer- 
acion,  division  y  clases  de  estas,  segiin  la  diversidad  de  sus 
idiomas  y  dialectos :  Madrid,  4°,  6  v.  (An  enlarged,  correctedr 
and  selective  edition  of  Hervas,  1785,  1786, 1787, 1787a.)  154, 
158. 

Hestermann,  P.  Ferdinand 

1915  Die  Maya-Kultur  Mittelamerikas  (Sprache,  Schrift,  Literatur, 
Kalender  und  Bauwerke):  in  Mitteilungen  der  Anthropolo- 
gischen  Gesellschaft,  Sitzungsberichte:  Vienna,  v.  45,  p.  [8]-[9]. 
162. 

Hiersemann,  Karl  Wilhelm.    Editor. 

1891  et  seq.  Amerikanische  Sprachen.,  (Numerous  sale  catalogues, 
1891,  Nos.  70,  82,  87;  1893,  No.  119;  1895,  No.  143;  1897, 
No.  179;   1898,  No.  200;   1904,  No.  301;  etc.)     155, 158. 

Hocaba,  Chilam  Balam  de 

See  Chilam  Balam  de  Kaua.     191. 

Hoil,  Juan  Jose 

Chilam  Balam  de  Chumayel  (see  under  Chumayel). 


242  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Holmes,  William  Henry 

1903     Report  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology:   in  Smithsonian 
Institution,  Annual  Report,  Washington,  [1904],  p.  34-48.    171. 
Hovelaque,  Abel 

1876  La  linguistique :  in  Bibliotheque  des  Sciences  Contemporaines, 
Paris,  v.  2,  16°,  xi,  365  p.  (2d  ed.  Paris,  1877,  8°,  xiv,  435  p.) 
162. 

Humboldt,  [Friedrick  Heinrich]  Alexander  von 

1811  Essai  politique  sur  le  royaume  de  la  Nouvelle-Espagne,  etc. 
Paris,  8°,  5  v.  (Many  other  editions  among  them,  English 
ed.  London,  1811,  8°,  5  v.  Spanish  ed.:  Paris,  1822,  8°,  4  v.) 
161,  164. 

Humboldt,  [Karl]  Wilhelm  von 

(1)  Ueber  das  Verbum  in  den  amerikanischen  Sprachen:  MS.  40  p. 

(in  Humboldt's  writing,  13  p.  notes  by  ?).     164. 

(2)  Maya  Grammatik:  folio  MS.  135  p.  (36  p.  in  Humboldt's  writ- 

ing, 82  p.  and  table  in  writing  of  his  secretary,  15  p.  notes  and 
list  of  affixes  in  Humboldt's  writing.)     164. 

ICAZBALCETA,  JOAQUIN  GARCIA 

1866  Apuntes  para  un  catalogo  de  escritores  en  lenguas  indigenas  de 
America;  Mexico,  16°,  xiii,  157  p.  (Republished  in  his  Obras, 
Mexico,  1898,  v.  8,  p.  1-181.)  (134  titles  reprinted  in  Polemica 
entre  el  Diario  Oficial  y  la  Colonia  Espanola,  Mexico,  1875.)   155. 

1870    See  Mendieta. 

1886  Bibliografia  mexicana  del  siglo  xvi.  Primera  parte.  Catalogo 
razonado  de  libros  impresos  en  Mexico  de  1539  a  1600  con 
biografias  de  autores  y  otras  ilustraciones;  precedido  de  una 
noticia  acerca  de  la  introduction  de  la  imprenta  en  Mexico: 
Mexico,  4°,  xxix,  419,  p.  (3)  ff.  (See  Leon,  1902.)  156. 
Ixil,  Chilam  Balam  de 

MS.  owned  in  Merida.  (There  is  a  Berendt  copy,  1868,  in  the 
Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  49.  Gates  owns  a  second 
copy,  8°,  25  ff.  reproduced  by  him.)     190. 

Jehan,  Louis  Francois 

1864  Dictionnaire  de  linguistique  et  de  philologie  compared.  His- 
toire  de  toutes  les  langues  mortes  et  vivantes,  traite  complet 
d'idiomographie  etc.:  in  Migne's  Troisieme  et  Dernier e  Ency- 
clopedic Theologique,  v.  34,  Paris,  4°,  1448  columns  (two  to  a 
page.)     162. 

Johnes,  Arthur  James 

1846  Philological  proofs  of  the  original  unity  and  recent  origin  of  the 
human  race.  Derived  from  a  comparison  of  the  languages  of 
Asia,  Europe,  Africa  and  America.  Being  an  inquiry  how  far 
the  differences  in  the  languages  of  the  globe  are  referrible  to 
causes  now  in  operation:  London,  8°,  lx,  172,  103  p.     179. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  243 

Joyce,  Thomas  A[thol] 

1914    Mexican  archaeology,  an  introduction  to  the  archaeology  of  the 
Mexican  and  Mayan   civilizations  of  pre-Spanish  America: 
New  York  and  London,  8°,  xvi,  371  p.    30  pis.     160. 
Juarros,  Domingo 

1808  Compendio  de  la  historia  de  la  ciudad  de  Guatemala.  .  .  . 
Tomo  I.  Que  comprende  los  prelimminaires  de  dicha  historia. 
Tomo  II.  Contiene  un  cronicon  del  Reyno  de  Guatemala: 
Guatemala,  4°,  2  v.  (Numerous  other  editions  including  an 
English  one  by  Baily,  London,  1823,  8°,  viii,  520  p.  maps,  and 
a  Spanish  ed.  of  1857.)     159. 

JUDIO,    LlBRO   DE 

See  Anon  (13-16),  Ossado,  1834,  Perez  (4)  and  Berendt  1870.  195. 
Kaua,  Chilam  Balam  de 

4°,  MS.  282  p.  owned  in  Merida  (Gates  reproduction.)  (There  is 
a  partial  Berendt  copy,  1868,  in  the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  49.  Gates  has  a  second  (partial)  copy,  8°,  99  ff.,  also 
reproduced  by  him).  (Sometimes  referred  to  as  the  Hocaba 
MS.)  190. 
Keane,  Augustus  Henry 

1901     Central  and  South  America:    London,  12°,  2  v.  edited  by  Sir 
Clements  Markham.     (2d  ed.,  London,  1909-11,  2  v.    This 
work  and  that  of  Bates,  1878,  form  part  of  Stanford's  "Com- 
pendium of  geography  and  travel.")     159. 
Kennedy,  James 

1861  Essays  ethnological  and  linguistic:  London,  8°,  vi  p.  (1)  f.  230  p. 

(Edited  by  C.  M.  Kennedy.)    This  contains: 
Supplementary  notices  of  the  American  Indians,  the  Mayas, 
the  Caribs,  the  Arrawaks  and  the  Mosquitos  (p.  124- 
152).     161. 
Kingdon,  John    145. 
1847    A  Yucatecan  grammar:  translated  from  the  Spanish  into  Maya 
and  abridged  for  the  instruction  of  the  native  Indians  by  the 
Rev.  J.  Ruz,  of  Merida.     Translated  from  the  Maya  into 
English:    Belize,  8°,  68  p.     (Gates  reproduction.)  (See  Ruz, 
1844  and  Berendt,  1865.)     166. 

1862  [?]     [A  tentative  edition  in  Maya  of  chaps,  v,  xi,  xv,  xxiii  of  St. 

Luke's  Gospel,  published  by  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society:  London].    (See  Kingdon,  1865.)    199. 

1865  Leti  u  cilich  Evangelio  Jesu  Cristo  hebix  San  Lucas:  London, 
16°,  90  p,  published  by  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society. 
200. 

§(1)  [Beltran's  grammar  translated  into  English].  MS.  [?]  (Ludewig, 
1858,  p.  227  states  that  there  is  a  translation  of  Beltran's  gram- 
mar into  English  in  possession  of  American  Bible  Society, 
New  York.  Present  officers  deny  this.  See  Henderson,  3.) 
165. 


244  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Kingdon,  John  {continued). 

§  (2)     Dictionary  Maya-Spanish-English  and  English-Spanish-Maya: 
MS.  [?].    (Ludewig,  1858;  p.  227  states  this  is  in  possession  of 
the  American  Bible  Society,  New  York.    Present  officers  deny 
this.)    174. 
Klaproth,  Julius 

1824-28    Memoires  relatifs  a  TAsie  contenant  des  recherches  histo- 
riques,   g^ographiques    et   philologiques    sur    les   peuples   de 
FOrient:  Paris;  12°,  3  v.     179. 
Landa,  Diego  de     141. 

1864  See  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1864.  (2d  edition,  Appendix  to  the 
Delgado  edition  of  de  Rosny,  Essai  sur  le  dechiffrement  de 
Vecriture  hieratique  de  VAmerique  Centrale,  Madrid,  1884; 
and  a  3d  edition  in  Coleccion  de  Documentos  Ineditos  (2d 
series):   Madrid,  1900,  v.  13,  p.  265-411). 

§  (1)  Arte  perfeccionado  de  la  lengua  Maya:  MS.  xvi  century  (miss- 
ing).    162. 

§  (2)     Doctrina  en  la  lengua  Maya  [?].     (See  Aguilar,  1639;   ed.  1892, 
p.  35.)     196. 
Larrainzar,  Manuel 

1875-78    Estudios  sobre  la  historia  de  America,  sus  ruinas  y  anti- 
giiedades,  etc.:   Mexico,  8°,  5  v.     159, 162, 165. 
Latham,  Robert  Gordon 

1850  The  natural  history  of  the  varieties  of  man:  London,  8°,  xxviii 
574  p.     159. 

1860  Opuscula.  Essays  chiefly  philological  and  ethnographical :  Lon- 
don, 8°,  vi,  418  p.     179. 

1862    Elements  of  comparative  philology:  London,  8°,  xxxii,  774  p.   179. 
Leclerc,  Charles 

1867  Bibliotheca  americana.  Catalogue  raisonne  d'une  tres-precieuse 
collection  de  livres  anciens  et  modernes  sur  TAmerique  et  les 
Philippines:   Paris,  8°,  vii,  407  p.     154. 

1878  Bibliotheca  americana.  Histoire,  geographie,  voyages,  archeo- 
logie  et  linguistique  des  deux  Ame>iques  et  des  iles  Philippines : 
Paris,  8°,  xx,  737  p.  (Enlarged  edition  of  1867.)  (Maya,  Nos. 
2279-2294,  2468,  2609.)  (Supplements  appeared  in  1881  and 
1887.)  154. 
Lehmann,  Walter 

1907     Ergebnisse  und  Aufgaben  der  mexikanistischen  Forschung:    in 
Archiv  fur  Anthropologie  (n.  s.)  v.  6,  p.  113-168.     (English 
translation  by  Seymour  de  Ricci,  Paris,  1909,  12°,  127  p.)    150, 
156,  162. 
Lejeal,  Leon 

1902  Les  antiquit^s  mexicaines  (Mexique,  Yucatan,  Amerique-cen- 
trale):  Paris,  8  ,  79  p.  (Published  by  the  Societe  des  Etudes 
Historiques.   Bibliotheque  de  bibliographies  critiques.)     150, 156. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  245 

Leon,  Nicolas 

1896    Biblioteca  mexicana.    Catalogo  para  la  venta  de  la  porcion  mas 
escogida  de  (su)  biblioteca:    Mexico,  16°,  37  p.     (Sale  cata- 
logue.)    158. 
1898    See  Ramirez,  1898. 

1900  Familias  lingiiisticas  de  Mexico:  in  Memorias  de  la  Sociedad 
Cientifica  de  "Antonio  Alzate,"  v.  15,  p.  275-284.  (Republished 
in  Andes  del  Museo  Nacional,  Mexico,  1903,  v.  7,  p.  279-309, 
map.)  159. 
1902  Adiciones  a"  la  Bibliografia  mexicana  del  siglo  xvi:  in  Boletin  del 
Instituto  Bibliogrdfico  Mexicano,  Part  1,  p.  43  et  seq.  (See 
Icazbalceta,  1886.)  156. 
1902a  La  bibliografia  in  Mexico  en  el  siglo  xix;  in  Boletin  del  Instituto 

Bibliogrdfico  Mexicano,  Part  3,  p.  55-66.    156. 
1902-08    Bibliografia  mexicana  del  siglo  xvin:  Mexico,  sm.  4°,  5  parts. 
(Parts  1-3   in   Boletin   del  Instituto   Bibliogrdfico   Mexicano, 
Nos.  1,  4,  5,  7.)     156. 
1905    Las  lenguas  indigenas  de  Mexico  en  el  siglo  xix,  Nota  biblio- 
grafica  y  critica:   in  Anales  del  Museo  Nacional,  Mexico,  (2d 
epoca),  v.  2,  p.  180-191.    (French  edition  in  L'Annee  Linguis- 
tique,  publiee  sur  les  auspices  de  la  Societe  de  Philologie.    Paris, 
1904,  v.  2,  p.  249-281.     156. 
Leon  Pinelo,  Antonio  Rodriguez  de 

1629    Epitome  de  la  biblioteca  oriental  i  occidental,  nautica  i  geo- 
grafica:    Madrid,  8°,  44  ff.,  186,  xii  p.  If.     This  contains: 
Autores  que  han  escrito  en  lenguas  de  las  Indias  (p.  104-110). 
(See  Barcia,  1737-38  for  2d  ed.)     150,  153. 
Le  Plongeon,  Alice  [Dixon] 

1879     Notes  on  Yucatan:   in  Proceedings  of  the  American  Antiquarian 
Society  (1878),  p.  77-106.     (Published  separately  with  other 
papers,  Worcester,  1879,  p.  69-98.)     195. 
[1889]    Here  and  there  in  Yucatan.     Miscellanies.     New  York,   12°, 
146  p.     195. 
(1)     Maya  melodies  of  Yucatan.     Taken  from  Indian  airs  of  Alice 
Dixon  LePlongeon  with  musical  settings  by  Susanne  V.  R. 
Lawton.    207. 
Le  Plongeon,  Augusti/s 

1877    See  Salisbury,  Stephen,  1877. 

1879  Letter  addressed  to  the  Right  Rev.  Bishop  Courtenay,  Bishop  of 

Kingston  [on  the  Maya  language] :  in  Proceedings  of  the  Ameri- 
can Antiquarian  Society,  p.  113-117.     160. 

1880  Ensayo  sobre  la  antigliedad  de  la  lengua  Maya:  in  La  Revista 

de  Merida.    (Republished  in  El  Republicano,  Mexico.)     (See 
Carrillo  y  Ancona,  18806.)     160. 
[1880a?]     [Comparative  study  of  the  Maya  language.]     (A  letter  in 
Spanish  addressed  to  the  Right  Reverend  Bishop  Courtenay  of 
Kingston,  Jamaica) :  in  La  Revista  de  Merida.     160. 


246  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Le  Plongeon,  Augustus  (continued). 

18806  [Letter  on  the  antiquity  of  the  Mayas  addressed  to  the  Right 
Rev.  Bishop  Courtenay,  Bishop  of  Kingston]:  in  The  Present 
Century,  New  York,  v.  2.  No.  22.  (This  is  probably  the  same 
as  1880a.) 

1881  Mayapan  and  Maya  inscriptions:  in  Proceedings  of  the  American 
Antiquarian  Society,  (n.  s.),  v.  1,  p.  246-282.     160. 

1881a  Vestiges  of  the  Mayas,  or,  Facts  tending  to  prove  that  communi- 
cations and  intimate  relations  must  have  existed,  in  very 
remote  times,  between  the  inhabitants  of  Mayab  and  those  of 
Asia  and  Africa:  New  York,  8°,  68  p.    160. 

1896  Queen  Moo  and  the  Egyptian  Sphinx:  New  York,  8°,  lxv,  277  p. 
68  pis.    (2d  ed.  1900.)     160, 176. 

Lizana,  Bernardo  de 

1633  Historia  de  Yucatan.  Devocionario  de  Nuestra  Sefiora  de  Izmal 
y  conquista  espiritual ;  Valladolid.  (Another  edition,  Mexico, 
1893,  8°,  (12  ff.),  127  ff.  (1)  f .  Parts  of  first  four  chapters  pub- 
lished in  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1864,  p.  348-364,  with  French 
translation.  Extracts  in  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1870;  ed.  1872, 
p.  155-160.)     150,  180,  193. 

Lopez  Otero,  Daniel 

1914  Gramatica  Maya.  Metodo  teorico  practico:  Merida,  8°,  130  p. 
(Founded,  in  part,  on  notes  by  Audomaro  Molina.)     167. 

Ludewig,  Hermann  Ernst 

1858  The  literature  of  American  aboriginal  languages.  With  addi- 
tions and  corrections  b}'  Professor  Wm.  W.  Turner.  Edited 
by  Nicolas  Triibner:  London,  8°,  xxiv,  258  p.  (This  is  v.  1 
of  Tnibner's  Bibliotheca  Glottica.)    155. 

Mc  Gee,  W.  J. 

1901  Report  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology:   in  Smithsonian 

Institution,  Annual  Report,  Washington,  [1902],  p.  65-84.   171. 

1902  Report  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology:   in  Smithsonian 

Institution,  Annual  Report,  Washington,  [1903],  p.  39-57.   171. 

Maclean,  J.  P. 

1883  Maya  literature:  in  [some  magazine  for]  October,  (n.  s.)  v.  20, 
p.  438-448.    (Pilling,  No.  2392a  after  Brinton.)     194. 

MacNutt,  Francis  Augustus 
1908  See  Cortes,  Hernando. 
1912     See  Martyr  d'Anghera. 

Madier  de  Montjau,  £duard 

1875  Textes  Mayas:  in  Archives  de  la  Societe  Americaine  de  France 
(2d  ser.)  v.  1,  p.  373-378.  (This  is  an  ectftion  of  Nolasco  de  los 
Reyes,  1869.)     198. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  247 

Maisonneuve  et  Cie.    Editors. 

1881  Bibliotheca  americana.  Histoire,  geographie,  voyages,  arch£o- 
logie,  et  linguistique  des  deux  Am^riques:  Paris,  8°,  105  p. 
(This  is  a  supplement  to  Leclerc,  1878.  Another  appeared 
in  1887.)     158. 

1897  Catalogues  des  livres  de  fonds  et  en  nombre.  Histoire,  arch£o- 
logie,  voyages,  mythologie,  religions,  ethnographie  et  linguis- 
tique, etc.,de  l'Amerique  et  de  POc6anie:  Paris,  8°,  2,  134  p. 
(Sale  catalogue.)     158. 

Malte-Brun,  Conrad 

1810-29    Precis  de  la  geographie  universelle,  ou  description  de  toutes 
les  parties  du  monde,  sur  un  plan  nouveau,  d'apres  les  grandes 
divisions  naturelles  du  globe;    Pr6c6dee  de  l'histoire  de  la 
geographie  chez  les  peuples  anciens  et  modernes,  etc.:   Paris, 
8°,  8  v.  atlas,  4°.     (2d  ed.  corrigee,  Paris,  1812-29,  8°,  8  v.) 
179.      This  contains: 
Tableau  de  renchainement  geographique  des  langues  ameri- 
caines  et  asiatiques  (v.  5,  p.  227-234.)     (Numerous  other 
editions.)     179. 
1824    Gemalde  von  Amerika  und  seinen  Bewohnern.    Uebersetzt  von 
Greipel:  Leipzig,  8°,  2  v.    (Fischer,  1869,  No.  1016  has  Neuestes 
Gemalde  von  Amerika  und  seinen  Bewohnern,  Leipzig,  1819.) 
174. 
1862     Le  Mexique  illustr6,  histoire  et  geographic     Recit  des  evene- 
ments  militaires  qui  s'y  sont  passers  jusqu'a  ce  jour  com- 
prenant  en  outre   l'histoire   et   la   geographie  illustrees  des 
Etats-Unis:    Paris,  4°,  72  p.     159. 

Malte-Brun,  V[ictor]  A[dolph] 

1864    Un  coup  d'ceil  sur  le  Yucatan:  Paris,  8°,  34  p.     180. 

1878  Tableau  de  la  distribution  des  langues  au  Mexique:  in  Proceed- 
ings of  the  2d  International  Congress  of  Americanists,  Luxem- 
bourg (1877),  v.  2,  p.  10-44.  (Published  separately,  Nancy, 
1878,  8°,  35  p.  1  map.)     159, 162. 

Mani,  Chilam  Balam  de 

1595  circa.  [Portions  of  this  MS.  called  Perez  Codex  (q.  v.),  other  parts 
copied  by  Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  43-7, 
p.  133-183,  etc.  Notes  on  this  copy  by  C.  P.  Bowditch  and  by 
Schuller,  reproduced  by  Gates.]     184. 

Mani,  Cronica  de 

1556  et  seq.  [MS.  in  Maya  described  by  Stephens,  1843,  v.  2,  p.  262- 
268.]    205. 

Manzano,  L. 

1893  Vocabularios  comparativos  del  estado  de  Yucatan.  250  pala- 
bras  en  la  lengua  Maya  y  Castellano  de  la  oiudad  de  Valla- 
dolid:  Copy,  4°  MS.,  4  ff.  in  Peabody  Museum.     177, 181. 


248  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Marietti,  Pietro.    Editor. 

1870  Oratio  Dominica  in  CCL.  lingvas  versa  et  CLXXX  charactervm 
formis  vel  nostratibvs  vel  peregrinis  expressa  cvrante  Petro 
Marietti,  etc.:  Rome,  4°,  5  ff.  xi-xxvii,  319  p.  4  ff.     199. 

Martinez  Alomia,  Gustavo 

1902  Introduction  de  la  imprenta  en  Campeche  y  cien  portadas  de 
impresos  Mexicanos:  in  Boletin  del  Instituto  Bibliogrdfico 
Mexicano,  Part  3,  p.  1-25.     158. 

1906  Historiadores  de  Yucatan.    Apuntes  biograficos  y  bibliograficos 

de  los  historiadores  de  esta  peninsula  desde  su  descubrimiento 
hasta  fines  del  siglo  xix:  Campeche,  8°,  xii,  360  p.  (Origi- 
nally published  in  La  Revista  de  Merida.)    157  (2),  183  (2),  190. 

Martinez  Hernandez,  Juan    149. 

1907  [Essay  on  Maya  calendar] :  in  El  Calendario  de  Espinosa.     183. 
1909    El  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani  6  Codice  Perez:   Merida,  12°,  18  p. 

(Published  originally  in  El  Calendario  de  Espinosa.)     186. 
1909a  Las  cronicas  Mayas.     Revision  y  traduccion  del  texto  de  las 
cronicas  de  Chicxulub,  de  Mani,  de  Tizimin,  de  Chumayel: 
MS.      183,  188. 

1912  Los  grandes  ciclos  de  la  historia  Maya  segiin  el  manuscrito  de 

Chumayel:  in  Proceedings  of  the  17th  International  Congress 
of  Americanists,  Mexico  (1910),  p.  180-213.  (Published  sep- 
arately, Merida,  n.  d.  8°,  42  p.)     183, 188. 

1913  La  creation  del  mundo  segiin  los  Mayas.    Paginas  ineditos  del 

manuscrito  de  Chumayel:    in  Proceedings  of  the  18th  Inter- 
national Congress  of  Americanists,  London  (1912),  p.  164-171. 
188. 
1915    La  muerte  de  los  "  Ahpulhaob."    Retaliation  de  Nachi  Cocom 
a  Tutul  Xiu  por  la  destruction  de  Mayapan :   MS.     183. 

1918  Correlacion  entre  la  cronologia  Maya  y  la  cristiana.    Correlacion 

por  katunes  desde  el  ciclo  noveno  hasta  la  fundacion  de  Merida. 
Correlacion  de  todas  las  fechas  determinadas  en  los  monu- 
mentos  arqueologicos  Mayas:   MS.     183. 
1918a  La  cronica  de  Yaxkukul  por  Ah  Macan  Pech  y  Ah  Naum  Pech. 
Revision  y  traduccion  del  texto :  MS.     203. 

1919  El  juicio  final.    (Translation  into  Spanish  of  p.  102  of  the  Chu- 

mayel.)    4°,     MS.     2  p.      189. 

1920  Petition  de  Juan  Xiu  (from  Xiu  Chronicles) :  Translation.    MS. 

(In  collaboration  with  Adela  C.  Breton.)     204. 

1920a  Testamento  de  Andres  Pat  (from  Libro  de  Cacalchen.  1647): 
Translation.  MS.  (In  collaboration  with  Adela  C.  Breton.) 
205. 

19206  Ordenanzas  de  Don  Diego  Garcia  Palacios  (from  Libro  de  Cacal- 
chen, 1583) :  Translation.  MS.  (In  collaboration  with  Adela 
C.  Breton.)     204. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  249 

Martyr  D'Anghera,  Peter 

1516  Deorbe  nouo  decades:  Alcala,  folio,  (65),  16 ff.  (Numerous  other 
editions.  Best  edition  by  MacNutt,  New  York  and  London, 
1912,  8°,  2  v.,  vii,  414;   v,  448  p.)     153. 

Maudslay,  Alfred  Percival.    Editor. 
1908-16    See  Diaz  del  Castillo. 

Mayer,  Brantz 

1851  Mexico.  Aztec,  Spanish  and  Republican  .  .  .  with  .  .  .  his- 
torical sketch  of  the  late  war:  and  notices  of  New  Mexico  and 
California:  Hartford,  8°,  2  v.  433,  398  p.  (Other  editions.) 
185. 

Means,  Philip  Ainsworth 

1917    History  of  the  Spanish  conquest  of  Yucatan  and  of  the  Itzas :  in 

Papers  of  the  Peabody  Museum,  v.  7,   Cambridge,   8°,   xvi, 

206  p.     164, 174. 
Medina,  Jose  Toribio 

1893    La  imprenta  en  Mexico.     Epitome   (1539-1810).     Seville  8°, 

291  p.    (See  ed.  1907-12.) 
1898-1907    Biblioteca  Hispano-Americana  (1493-1810):    Santiago  de 

Chili,  4°,  7  v.     155. 
1904    La  imprenta  en  Merida  de  Yucatan  (1813-21).     Notas  biblio- 

graficas:  Santiago  de  Chile.    8°,  xii,  13-32  p.     158. 
1907-12    La  imprenta  en  Mexico  (1539-1821).    Santiago  de  Chile,  4°, 

8  v.     151, 155. 

Melgar  y  Serrano,  Jose  Maria. 

1873  Juicio  sobre  lo  que  servio  de  base  a  las  primeras  teogonias.  Tra- 
duccion  del  manuscrito  Maya  perteneciente  al  Senor  Miro: 
Vera  Cruz.    182. 

Mena,  Carlos 

§  (1)  Sermon  y  opusculos  piadosos  en  lengua  de  Yucatan:  MS.  xvii 
century  (missing).     201. 

Mendez,  Santiago 

1898  Noticias  sobre  las  costumbres,  trabajos,  idioma,  industria,  fisono- 
mia  de  los  Indios  de  Yucatan:  in  Boletin  de  la  Sociedad  de 
Geografia  y  Estadistica  de.  la  Republica  Mexicana.  (Repub- 
lished in  El  Reproductor  Campechano,  1899.)     162. 

Mendieta,  Geronimo  de 

1870    Historia  eclesiastica  indiana,  obra  escrita  a  fines  del  siglo  xvi. 
...  La  piiblica  por  primera  vez  Joaquin  Garcia  Icazbalceta: 
Mexico,  4°,  xlv,  790  p.    (Written  about  1590.)     163. 
Mendoza,  Eufemio 

1872    Apuntes  para  un  catalogo  razonado  de  las  palabras  Mexicanas 
introducidas  al  Castellano:   Mexico,  8°,  88  p.    This  contains: 
Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1872  (p.  56-88). 


250  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Menendez,  Rodolfo 

1906     [Bibliographical  note]:  in  Martinez  Alomia,  1906,  p.  i-iv.    157. 

Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Marcelino 

1888  Inventario  bibliografico  de  la  ciencia  espanola:  in  Ciencia 
Espanola,  Madrid,  v.  3,  p.  125-445.  (It  is  v.  64  in  Coleccion 
de  Escritores  Castellanos.)     154. 

Meneses,  Jose  Maria 
1848    See  Perez,  1848. 
(1)     [Copy  of  Diccionario  de  San  Francisco,  Maya-Spanish,  A-K,  4°, 
MS.,  54  ff.  with  Advertencia  preliminar].     172. 

Merian  [Falkach,  Andre  Adolphe]  Baron  de 

1828  Principes  de  l'etude  comparative  des  langues  par  le  baron  de 
Merian,  suivis  d 'observations  sur  les  racines  des  langues  semi- 
tiques  par  M.  Klaproth:  Paris,  8°,  viii,  240  p.     179. 

Migne,  Jacques  Paul.    Editor. 

1864  Dictionnaire  de  linguistique  (Troisieme  et  Derniere  Encyclopedic 
ThSologique,  v.  34):   Paris,  4°.    (See  J£han,  1864.) 

Millspaugh,  Charles  Frederick 

1895-98  Contributions  1-3  to  the  flora  of  Yucatan:  in  Field  Museum 
Publications,  4,  15,  25.  Botanical  Series,  v.  1,  p.  1-56,  i-vii, 
281-339;  345-410.     177, 195. 

1900  Plantse  Utowanse:  in  Field  Museum  Publications,  43,  50.  Botani- 
cal Series,  v.  2,  p.  1-135.     177,  195. 

1903-04  Plantse  Yucatanse:  in  Field  Museum  Publications,  69,  92. 
Botanical  Series,  v.  3,  p.  1-151,  1  f.   "177,  195. 

MlNISTERIO   DE    FoMENTO,    ANALES   DE 

1854    Mexico,  v.  1,  8°,  726  p.    1  map.    (See  also  Siliceo,  1857.)     159. 

Mitre,  Bartolome 

1909-11  Catalogo  razonado  de  la  secci6n  lenguas  Americanas: 
Buenos  Aires,  8°,  3  v.  xliii,  409  p.  1  f.;  325  p.  1  f.;  318  p.  1  f. 
160,  155,  162,  164,  165,  167. 

1912  Museo  Mitre.  Lenguas  americanas.  Catalogo  ilustrado  de  la 
seccion  X  de  la  biblioteca.  Con  muchos  facsimiles  de  portadas : 
Buenos  Aires,  8°,  182  p.     155. 

Molina  y  Solis,  Audomaro 

1887     Compendio  de  la  geografia  de  Yucatan.    (See  Carrillo  y  Ancona, 

1887,  p.  1-31). 
1905     U  molcabthanil  camathan.    Catecismo  de  la  Doctrina  Cristiana 

Merida,  46  p.    (Published  without  name  of  author.)     197. 
1914    See  Lopez  Otero,  1914. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  251 

Molina  y  Solis,  Juan  Francisco 

1896  Historia  del  descubrimiento  y  conquista  de  Yucatan  con  una 

resefia  de  la  historia  antigua  de  esta  peninsula :  Merida,  8°,  lx, 
911  p.     162,  168,  181,  186,  188,  190. 

1897  El  primer  Obispado  de  la  nacion  Mejicana.    Articulos  publicados 

sobre  esta  materia  y  sobre  otros  puntos  de  nuestra  historia: 
Merida,  8°,  475  p.     184,  203,  205. 
1904-13    Historia    de    Yucatan    durante    la    dominacion    Espafiola: 
Merida,  8°,  3  v.    iv,  359;  iii,  455;  658  p.     151, 158,  205. 
Moreno,  Pablo 

[Writer  on  Maya  subjects,  after  Castillo,  1866,  p.  255.]     192. 

MORLEY,    SYLVANUS   GrISWOLD 

1910  The  correlation  of  Maya  and  Christian  chronology:  in  American 

Journal  of  Archaeology  (2d  series),  v.  14,  p.  193-204.     183. 

1911  The  historical  value  of  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam :  in  American 

Journal  of  Archaeology  (2d  series),  v.  15,  p.  195-214.     183. 
1920    The  inscriptions  at  Copan:    Washington,  4°,  xii,  643  p.     33, 
1  pis.     (Carnegie  Institution  Publication,  No.  219.)    183,  189, 
204,  205. 
Motul,  Diccionario  de 

MS.  xvi  century  (missing).  Copy,  16°,  in  John  Carter  Brown 
Library,  Providence,  Rhode  Island:  Maya-Spanish,  465  ff. 
Spanish-Maya,  236  ff.  (ff.  83-104,  161,  171-174,  209-216,  233 
missing),  (Gates  reproduction,  8°.)  (Copy  by  Berendt,  4°,  2  v. , 
viii,  1565,  508  p.  with  1  v.  of  Additions  and  Corrections,  about 
600  p.  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  1.  Copy  (partial) 
by  Le  Plongeon  in  1884  and  copy  (partial)  by  Miss  Thomas, 
1900  et  seq.  in  Bureau  of  Ethnology.  Note  of  this  dictionary 
by  Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  181.)     170. 

MtJLLER,    FRIEDRICH 

1876-88  Grundriss  der  Sprachwissenschaf t :  Vienna,  8°,  4  v.  V.  2, 
part  1  (1882)  contains: 

Die   Sprachen  der  schlichthaarigen   Rassen.     Die   Maya- 
Sprachen  (p.  305-313).     167. 

MtJLLER,    J[OHANNJ    G[EORG] 

1855  Geschichte  der  amerikanischen  Urreligionen :  (2d  ed.,  Basel, 
1867,  8°,  vii,  706  p.)     162. 

[Murphy,  Henry  Cruse] 

1884  Catalogue  of  the  magnificent  library  of  .  .  .  consisting  almost 
wholly  of  Americana  or  books  relating  to  America :  New  York, 
8°,  viii,  434  p.    (Sale  catalogue.)     154, 158. 

MUSEO   YUCATECO,   El 

1841-42  Redactado  por  D.  Justo  Sierra  y  D.  Vicente  Calero  Quintana; 
considerado  como  la  piedra  miliar  en  que  descansa  el  edificio, 
levantado  a  literatura  en  la  peninsula :  Campeche,  8°,  2  v.    158. 


252  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Nabula,  Chilam  Balam  de 

[MS.  known  only  by  name.]     191. 
Nah,  Chilam  Balam  de 

4°,  MS.  64  p.    Signed  by  Jose*  Maria  Nah.    (Owned  by  William 
Gates  and  reproduced  by  him.)     191. 
NIjera,  Gaspar  de 
§  (1)     Relation  de  las  antigtiedades  de  Yucatan:    MS.  xvi  century 
(missing).    169. 
Naphegyi,  Gabor 

1869  The  album  of  language  illustrated  by  the  Lord's  Prayer  in  one 

hundred  languages,  with  historical  description  of  the  principal 
languages,  interlinear  translation  and  pronunciation  of  each 
prayer,  a  dissertation  on  the  languages  of  the  world  and  tables 
exhibiting  all  known  languages,  dead  and  living:  Phila- 
delphia, fol.  4,  11-323,  (1)  p.     199. 

Narciso,  J. 
[1838    Arte  de  la  lengua  Maya].     (This  is  mentioned  by  Squier,  p.  38 
but  it  is  clearly  a  mistake.    The  work  is  the  Spanish  grammar 
of  Diego  Narciso  Herranz  y  Quiros,  translated  into  Maya  by 
Ruz.)     165. 

New  York  Public  Library,  Bulletin  of 

1909  List  of  works  in  New  York  Public  Library  relating  to  Mexico: 
v.  13,  n.  10-12,  New  York,  p.  622-662,  675-737,  748-829. 
150,  156. 

Nicoli,  Jose  P. 

1870  Las  ruinas  de  Yucatan  y  los  viajeros:  in  Boletin  de  la  Sociedad 

de  Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica  Mexicana.  (2d 
series),  v.  2,  p.  510-524.     194. 

[NOLASCO  DE  LOS  REYES,  PeDRO] 

1869  El  ejercicio  del  santo  via  crusis  puesto  en  lengua  Maya  y 
copiado  de  un  antiguo  manuscrito :  Lo  da  &  la  prensa  con  su- 
perior permiso  el  Dr.  D.  J.  Vicente  Solis  Rosales  quien  desea 
se  propague  esta  devocion  entre  los  fieles,  principalmente  de 
la  clase  indigena.  Va  corregida  por  el  R.  P.  Fr.  M.  Antonio 
Peralta:  Mexico,  16°,  31  p.  (Gates  reproduction.)  (See 
Madier  de  Montiau,  1875,  and  Anon.  17.)  198. 
Norman,  B[enjamin]  M[oore] 

1843  Rambles  in  Yucatan  including  a  visit  to  the  remarkable  ruins  of 
Chi-Chen,  Kabah,  Zayi,  Uxmal,  etc.:  New  York,  8°,  304  p. 
(Other  editions.)     165, 168, 174, 199. 

NUTTALL,    ZELIA. 

1901  Fundamental  principles  of  old  and  new  world  civilizations:  in 
Papers  of  the  Peabody  Museum,  v.  2,  Cambridge,  602  p.   179  (2) . 

1903  A  suggestion  to  Maya  scholars:  in  American  Anthropologist, 
(n.  s.)  v.  5,  p.  667-678.     181. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  253 

Ober,  Frederick  A[lbion] 

1884  Travels  in  Mexico  and  life  among  the  Mexicans:  Boston,  8°, 
xxii,  672  p.     160. 

O'Neil  6  O'Kelly,  Arturo 

1795  Descripcion,  poblacion,  y  censo  de  la  Provincia  de  Yucatan  en 
la  Nueva  Espafia:  MS.  (Copy  in  Library  of  Cathedral  of 
Mexico  City  according  to  Beristain  y  Souza,  1816-21,  v.  2, 
p.  355).    (Name  of  author  is  written  "Oneil  u  Oneylli".)    161. 

Ordonez  Ramon  de 

(1)  Historia  de  la  creacion  del  cielo  y  de  la  tierra,  conforme  al  systema 
de  la  gentilidad  Americana,  etc.:  MS.  253  ff.  (Copied  by 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg  in  1848  and  1849.)  Part  2,  50  p.  in- 
complete. (See  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1871,  p.  112-113.) 
178. 

Orozco  y  Berra,  Manuel 

1864    Geografia  de  las  lenguas  y  carta  etnografica  de  Mexico,  prece- 

didas  de  un  ensaj^o  de  clasificacion  de  las  mismas  lenguas  y  de 

apuntes  para  las  inmigraciones  de  las  tribus:   Mexico,  4°,  xiv, 

392  p.    1  map.     159,  162, 187. 
1880    Historia  antigua  y  de  la  conquista  de  Mexico:  Mexico,  8°,  4  v. 

ix,  584;   603;   527;   694  p.  and  atlas,  fol.    181, 194. 

OSSADO,    RlCARDO,    alias   El   JUDIO 

1834  Conocimiento  de  yerbas  Yucatecas,  etc.:  Merida,  16°,  80  p. 
(Unique  imprint  owned  by  Gates.)     195. 

Oviedo  y  Valdes,  Gonzalo  Fernandez  de 

1535  La  historia  general  de  las  Indias,  etc.:  Seville.  4°.  (French 
trans,  of  first  10  books.  Paris,  1555.  Ed.  Madrid,  1851-55. 
4°,  4  v.).  (Berendt  copy  of  Maya  words  in  Oviedo  in  Berendt 
Linguistic  Collection  Nos.  42-11,  and  180.)     161, 169. 

OXKUTZCAB,    CHILAM   BaLAM   DE 

1689  Pronosticos  de  los  ahaues  del  libro  de  Chilam  Balam  de  Oxkutz- 
cab.  (This  is  a  partial  copy  from  Perez  collection,  copied  by 
Berendt,  1868d,  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  43-8, 
p.  185-224.  Notes  on  this  copy  taken  by  C.  P.  Bowditch. 
These  reproduced  by  Gates.)     190. 

OXKUTZCAB,    CRONICA   DE 

See  Xiu  Chronicles. 

Pacheco  Cruz,  Santiago 

1912    Compendio  del  "Idioma  Yucateco":  Merida,  12°,  122  (3)  p.  (2d 
ed.  Aumentada,  corregida  y  reformada.     Merida,  12°,  5  en- 
tregas.)     167. 
1919    Lexico  de  la  fauna  Yucateca:  Merida,  12°,  76  p.    177. 
(1)     Traduction  literal  de  los  descretos  del  Gobernador  E.  Avila,  a 
la  lengua  Maya.    206. 


254  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Palma  y  Palma,  Eulogio 

1901  Los  Mayos  (Disertaciones  historico-filologicas) :  Motul  (Yuca- 
tan), 8°,  viii,  753,  (2)  p.  Among  other  items  this  book  con- 
tains : 

Arqueologfa  e  historia,  p.  1-63. 

Filologia,  gramatica,  y  escritura,  p.  83-474.     162, 165,  167, 

168,  177,  182. 
Disquisiciones  historicas,  p.  475-712. 
Voces  aztecas  castellanizadas  y  sus  equivalentes  en  Maya, 

p.  718-735.     138. 
Voces  mayas  castellanizadas,  p.  735-738.     178. 
Dioses  y  genios  malignos  de  la  mitologia  maya,  p.  742-749. 
La  serie  de  los  katunes  (Perez,  1842).     186. 

Parisio,  Nicola 

(1)  De'  pretesi  elementi  fonetici  nelle  antiche  scriture  del  Messico  e 
del  Yucatan :  Rasscgna  Storica  Napolitana  di  Letter e  et  Arte. 
v.  1,  pts.  3-5,  p.  17-34,  65-82,  Naples.     177. 

Pat,  Jacinto  and  others 

1847  [circa]  Cartas  particulares  (en  la  lengua  Maya  )de  la  sublevacion 
de  1847.  Mssel.  MSS.  (owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced  by 
him,  4°,  9  p.).     206. 

Pech  Manuscript 

See  Chicxulub,  Cronica  de 

Penafiel,  Antonio 

1886  Libros  mexicanos  antiguos  y  modernos.  Catalogo  descriptivo 
de  la  biblioteca  del  Dr  Penafiel.     158. 

1897  Division  y  clasificacion  de  las  lenguas  y  dialectos  que  usaron  los 
antiguos  habitantes  del  actual  territorio  Mexicano.  Su  estado 
presente:  in  Proceedings  of  the  11th  International  Congress  of 
Americanists,  Mexico,  (1895),  p.  91-96.     169. 

1900  Censo  general  de  la  Republica  Mexicano,  verificado  el  20  de 
Octubre  de  1895:  Mexico.  (Published  by  the  Ministerio  de 
Fomento,  Direccion  General  de  Estadislica.)     159. 

Pennsylvania  Bible  Society, 

(1)  Specimen  verses  in  164  languages  and  dialects  in  which  the  Holy 

Scriptures  have  been  printed  and  circulated  by  the  Pennsyl- 
vania Bible  Society:  Philadelphia,  18°,  46  p.     200. 

(2)  Specimen  verses  in  215  languages  and  dialects  in  which  the  Holy 

Scriptures  have  been  printed  and  circulated  by  the  Pennsyl- 
vania Bible  Society:   Philadelphia,  16°,  48  p.     200. 

Peralta,  Antonio 

1869    See  Nolasco  de  los  Reyes,  1869. 

Perez,  Benito 

1803    See  Cervera,  Jose  Tiburcio. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  255 

Perez,  Juan  Pio    143. 

1836     [Copy  of  the  Diccionario  de  Ticul.]     (Missing.)     173. 

1838  Tomo  2°,  de  la  coordinacion  alfabetica  de  las  palabras  reunidas 
en  los  apuntes  6  cuadernos  hechos  para  la  formacion  de  un 
diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya  (Letras  L-O) :  4°  MS.  108  ff. 
(The  first  volume  has  no  title  nor  date.  It  contains  letters 
A-K,  84  ff.)     175. 

1838a  Diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya,  6  mas  bien,  apuntes  para  la  for- 
macion de  un  diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya  y  Espanola:  4°, 
MS.  1108  (4)  ff.     176. 

[1840]  Carta  &  Don  Vicente  Calero  Quintana  sobre  la  literatura  de  los 
Indios.  Written  at  Peto:  in  Registro  Yucateco,  v.  2.  (Repub- 
lished in  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1883,  p.  591-592.)     191. 

1842  Principales  epocas  de  la  historia  antigua  de  Yucatan:   (Original 

MS.,  a  part  of  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani,  copied  and  trans- 
lated by  Perez,  Peto,  1842.  His  copy  (8°,  13,  2  p.)  given  to 
Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  465-469)  who  published  it  and  pre- 
sented the  MS.  to  the  New  York  Historical  Society.  Copy  in 
Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  43-1).  (See  Mani,  Chilam 
Balam  de.)    (Also  called  the  Codex  Perez.)     144, 180,  184. 

[1842a]  Notas  sobre  la  lengua  Maya  [pronunciation  of  various  Maya 
sounds  and  letters  adopted  for  these  sounds.  MS.  given  to 
Stephens  (1843,  v.  2,  p.  178)  and  now  in  the  New  York  His- 
torical Society  as  a  preliminary  notice  to  the  Codex  Perez]. 
166,  168. 

[18426]  [Dictionary  of  4000  Maya  words.  MS.  given  to  Stephens 
(1843,  v.  2,  p.  278)  and  now  in  the  New  York  Historical 
Society.]     176. 

1843  Cronologia  antigua  de  Yucatan  y  examen  del  metodo  con  que  los 

Indios  contaban  el  tiempo,  sacados  de  varios  documentos 
antiguos:  English  translation  in  Stephens,  1843,  v.  1,  p.  434- 
459.  There  is  a  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg-Pilling  copy  with  the 
following  title :  Explication  \  del  Calendario  y  de  la  cronologica  \ 
antiqua  de  Yucatan,  \  escrita  por  D.  Pio  Perez,  \  juez  que  fue  de 
Peto:  folio,  MS.  14  ff.  There  is  also  a  copy  in  the  Peabody 
Museum  with  the  following  title:  Cronologia  antigua  \  de 
Yucatan  \  y  examen  del  metodo  con  que  los  Indios  contaban  el 
tiempo.  |  Sacada  de  varios  documentos  antiguos,  por  D.  Juan  Pio 
Perez  \  jefe  politico  de  Peto,  Yucatan:  8°,  MS.  20  ff.  (See  Pilling, 
1885,  No.  2950.)     145, 186. 

[1844]  Carta  a"  Don  Vicente  Calero  Quintana  (sobre  el  idioma  Maya). 
Peto:  in  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  182-18j5.   166. 

1845  Apuntes  del  diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya,  compuestos  en  vista 
de  varios  catalogos  antiguos  de  sus  voces  y  aumentado  con 
gran  suma  de  las  de  uso  comun  y  otras  que  se  han  extractado 
de  manuscritos  antiguos  por  un  Yucateco  aficionado  k  la 
lengua:  4°,  MS.  4,  468  p.  8ff.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  5.    (A  partial  copy  was  made  by  Berendt.)     175. 


256  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Perez,  Juan  Pio  (continued). 

1847  [2d  copy  of  the  Diccionario  de  Ticul:  4°,  MS.  146  p.]     175. 
1847a  Coordination  alfabetica  de  las  palabras  Mayas  que  se  hallan  en 

la  anterior  parte  Castellana:  4°,  MS.  133  p.  (This  is  the  Dic- 
cionario de  Ticul  arranged  by  Perez  in  Maya-Spanish  order. 
Copied  by  Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  2, 
v.  2.)     173,  175. 

1848  Una  proclama  destinada  a  los  Indios  sublevados.    (Translated 

into  Maya  by  Perez  and  Meneses.)    206. 

1866-77  Diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya:  Merida,  4°,  x,  xx,  437  p. 
(Maya-Spanish).     175. 

1898  Coordinacion  alfabetica  de  las  voces  del  idioma  Maya  que  se  hal- 
lan en  el  arte  y  obras  del  Padre  Fr.  Pedro  Beltran  de  Santa 
Rosa,  con  las  equivalencias  castellanas  que  en  las  mismas  se 
hallan:  Merida,  8°,  vi,  296  p.  (p.  123-296  contain  the  Ticul 
dictionary).     173,  174, 175, 181. 

(1)  Apuntes  para  una  grama tica  Maya,  etc.,  copia  de  los  fragmentos 

en  poder  de  D.  Pedro  Regil:  Merida,  12°,  MS.,  144  p.  (Copied 
by  Berendt  from  notes  of  Perez  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  11.)  This  is  a  note-book  with  pages  numbered  45 
to  188.     It  contains: 

Apuntes  para  una  gramatica,  p.  45-132,  173-179.     166. 

Indice  alfabetico,  p.  132. 

Berendt  (1871a),  p.  137-163. 

Perez  (7),  p.  165-184. 

Berendt  (8),  p.  185-188. 

(2)  Chilam  Balam.    Articulos  y  fragmentos  de  manuscritos  antiguos 

en  lengua  Maya  colectados  por  Perez:  MS.  (Copy  by  Berendt 

(1870),  4°,  vi,  258  p.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  50.) 

144,  183  (2),  205. 

This  volume  contains  the  following: 

Parte  primera. 

1 .  Calendario  espanol  para  todos  los  dias  del  ano  en  relation 

con  el  calendario  yucateco,  con  pronosticos  para  todos 
los  dias  y  todos  los  meses;  p.  1. 

2.  Relaciones  astrologicos  entre  los  siete  planetas  y  los  dias 

de  la  semana;  p.  25. 

3.  Historieta  de  le  Donsella  Teodora;  p.  31.     184. 

4.  Influencias  planetarias;  p.  38. 

5.  Influencias  de  los  signos  del  zodiaco;  p.  39. 

6.  Indicaciones  sobre  sangrias;  p.  39. 

7.  Pronosticos  de  los  afios  segun  comienzan  con  uno  u  otro 

dia  de  la  semana;  p.  41. 

8.  Pronosticos  de  los  signos  del  zodiaco;  p.  43. 

9.  Nota  de  D.  Pio  Perez;  p.  47. 

10.  Apuntes  historias  del  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani;  p.  48.    184. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  257 

11.  Relacion  del  ano  yucateco  con  el  espanol;  p.  50. 

12.  Calendario  espanol  para  todos  los  dias  del  ano  en  su  rela- 

cion al  calendario  yucateco;  p.  51. 
Parte  segunda. 

13.  Las  profecias  de  los  sacerdotes  mayas;  p.  65.     193. 

14.  Los  Ahaues;  p.  75. 

15.  Explicacion  de  la  cronologia  antigua;  p.  90. 

16.  Tabla  del  numero  de  horas  en  el  dia  y  en  la  noche  para 

todos  los  meses  del  ano;  p.  93. 

17.  Los  dias  del  mes  maya  en  relacion  a  cientos  Santos  del 

calendario  cristiano;  p.  93. 

18.  U  mutil  vine  zanzamal  (fama  diaria  del  hombre);  p.  94. 
.  19.  Los  Katunes;  p.  95. 

20.  Calendario  maya  para  cuatro  meses;  p.  95. 

21.  Rueda  para  el  computo  del  calendario  maya;  p.  99  bis. 

22.  Explicacion    del    calendario   maya   en   espanol    (1595); 

p.  100.  " 

23.  Cuceb.    Explicacion  de  la  cronologia  antigua;   p.  101. 

24.  Explicaciones  de  la  cronologia  antigua;  p.  122. 

25.  Las  epocas  de  la  historia  antigua  de  Yucatan;  p.  134. 
Parte  tercera. 

26.  Tabla  de  anos  con  los  dias  en  que  cae  7  poop;  p.  138. 

27.  Tabla  de  correspondencia  de  los  dos  calendarios;  p.  139. 

28.  Calendario  espanol  en  su  relacion  con  el  yucateco  con  pro- 

nosticos  para  todas  los  dias;  p.  140. 

29.  Pronosticos  de  los  Ahaues;  p.  152. 

30.  Las  profecias  de  los  sacerdotes  mayas;  p.  166.     193. 

31.  Ruedas  cronologicas  con  su  explicacion ;  p.  174.   189, 190. 

32.  Bukxok.    Tabla  para  el  computo  de  fechas  del  ano  maya 

con  explicacion  de  D.  Pio  Perez  (no  concluida  y  com- 
pletada  por  el  copiante) ;  p.  178. 
Apendice. 

33.  Documento  sobre  un  convenio  entre  varios  pueblos  de  la 

Sierra  Alta;  p.  181. 

34.  Documentos  de  tierras  del  pueblo  de  Sotuta;  p.  187.    205. 

35.  Documentos  de  tierras  del  pueblo  Chacxulubchen;  p.  201. 

203. 

(3)  Fragmentos  sobre  la  cronologia  de  los  Maj^as.    Tornados  de  la 

coleccion  de  MSS.  en  lengua  Maya  de  Pio  Perez.  (Copy  by 
Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  43-5,  p.  87-106. 
Notes  on  this  MS.  by  C.  P.  Bowditch  reproduced  by  Gates.) 
186. 

(4)  Recetarios  de  Indios  en  lengua  Maya.    Indices  de  plantas  medi- 

cinales  y  de  enfermedades  coordinados:  4°,  MS.,  85  ff.  (Be- 
rendt made  extracts,  notes  and  additions  to  this.  See  Berendt, 
1870.    Gates  has  a  copy.)     196. 


258  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Perez,  Juan  Pio,  (continued). 

(5)  Los  afios  de  la  era  Cristiana  arreglados  al  computo  de  los  Mayas : 

4°,  MS.  13  ff.  (Copy  12°,  79  p.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  44-4.)     183. 

(6)  Las  epocas  de  la  historia  antigua  de  Yucatan.    Texto  del  Codice 

Perez  confrontado  con  el  del  Codice  de  Tizimin,  Chilam  Balam 
de  Mani;  12°,  MS.,  18  p.  (in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection, 
No.  44-3).     184, 185, 189. 

(7)  Extractos  de  la  introduccion  que  puso  a  su  transcripcion  del 

diccionario  de  Ticul:  (See  Perez,  1898,  p.  123-127.  Copy  by 
Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  11,  p.  165-184). 
173. 

(8)  Fragmentos  de  la  historia  sagrada  traducido  en  lengua  Maya  y 

copiado  de  un  libro  de  Chilam  Balam  que  fue  hallado  en  el 
Pueblo  de  Ixil:  4°,  MS.  cuaderno,  4  p.  (Copy  by  Berendt, 
12°,  7  p.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  44-2.)     190. 

(9)  Predicciones  de  los  meses.    Fragmento  de  un  calendario  antiguo 

del  ario  1701  en  lengua  Maya:  4°,  MS.  cuaderno,  20  p.  (Copy 
by  Berendt  12°,  22  p.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No. 
44-1.)     186. 

(10)  Estudios  de  la  gram&tica.     Unos  fragmentos:    8°,  MS.  48  p. 

(This  probably  contains  some  of  the  same  material  that  is  in 
Perez,  1.)     166. 

(11)  [Copy  of  the  San  Francisco  Dictionary]:  4°,  Introduction,  v.  p. 

Maya-Spanish,  93  ff.  Beltran's  vocabularies,  8  p.  Adiciones 
marginales  que  se  hallan  en  la  parte  Maya,  p.  9-10:  Spanish- 
Maya,  87  ff.  Complemento  del  diccionario,  87a,  876,  87c  ff . 
Adiciones  marginales  del  diccionario,  88-101  ff .  (Gates  re- 
production. Copy  by  Berendt,  1870,  4°,  2  v.,  vii,  364;  386  p. 
in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  3.)  172. 
Perez,  Manuel  Luciano 

1870  Carta  a  Carrillo  y  Ancona:  in  La  Revista  de  Merida,  p.  128.  (This 
relates  to  sending  the  Tizimin  MS.  to  Carrillo  y  Ancona. 
Quoted  in  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  146.  Partial 
copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  49,  p.  102.  Eng- 
lish translation  in  Pilling,  1885,  p.  161-162.)  189. 
Perez  Codex. 

See  Perez,  Juan  Pio,  1842. 
Peto,  Chilam  Balam  de  [?] 

(See  Pio  Perez,  1840,  in  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1883,  p.  592.)    191. 
Pilling,  James  Constantine 

1879-80  Catalogue  of  linguistic  manuscripts  in  the  library  of  the 
Bureau  of  Ethnology,  Washington :  in  1st  Annual  Report  [1881] 
of  the  Bureau  of  Ethnology,  Washington,  p.  553-577.  178. 
1885  Proof-sheets  of  a  bibliography  of  the  languages  of  the  North 
American  Indians:  Washington,  1.  4°,  xl,  1135  p.  (Publica- 
tion of  the  Bureau  of  Ethnology.)     145,  155. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  259 

Pimentel,  Francisco 

1860  Algunas  observaciones  sobre  las  palabras  Mayo  y  Maya:  in 
Boletin  de  la  Sociedad  de  Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica 
Mexicana.  (Republished  in  Pimentel,  1862-65,  v.  2,  p.  35-38; 
ed.  1874-75,  v.  3,  p.  133-137.)     180. 

1862-65  Cuadro  descriptivo  y  comparativo  de  las  lenguas  indigenas 
de  Mexico:  Mexico,  8°,  2  v.  Hi,  539  p.;  vi.,  427  p.,  2  ff. 
(2d  edition,  3  v.  Mexico,  12°,  1874-75,  xvi,  426;  472;  570, 
p.  If.)    (German  ed.  by  Epstein,  New  York,  1877.)    164. 

1876     Cuadro  sinoptico  de  las  lenguas  indigenas  de  Mexico.     159. 

PlNART,    ALPHONSE    LOUIS 

1883  Catalogue  de  livres  rares  et  precieux,  manuscrits  et  imprimes, 
principalement  sur  l'Amerique  et  sur  les  langues  du  monde 
entier,  composant  la  bibliotheque  de  M.  A.  L.  P.,  et  compre- 
nant  ...  la  bibliotheque  mexico-guatemalienne  de  M.  l'abbe 
Brasseur  de  Bourbourg:   Paris,  8°,  viii,  248  p.     155. 

Platzmann,  Julius 

1871     Amerikanisch-asiatische  Etymologien  via  Behring-Strasse  "from 

the  east  to  the  west":  Leipzig,  8°,  (3)  ff.,  112  p.  map.     179. 
1876    Verzeichniss  einer  auswahl  amerikanischer  Grammatiken,  Wor- 

terbucher,  Katechismen,  u.  s.  w.:  Leipzig,  8°,  (6)  38  p.     155. 

1903  Verzeichniss  der  werthvollen  an  Seltenheiten  reichen  Bibliothek 
des  verstorbenen  Amerikanisten  Dr  Julius  Platzmann  welche 
nebst  einigen  anderen  linguistischen  Beitragen  am  10  bis  13 
Juni  1903  in  Leipzig  versteigert  werden  soil:  Leipzig,  8°,  112  p. 
(Sale  catalogue.)     155, 158. 

Pott,  August  Friedrich 

1847  Die  quinare  und  vigesimale  Zahlmethode  bei  Volkern  aller  Welt- 
theile  nebst  ausfuhrlicheren  Bemerkungen  uber  die  Zahl- 
worter  indogermanischen  Stammes,  und  einem  Anhange  uber 
Fingernamen:  Halle,  8°,  viii,  304  p.     182. 

Pousse,  A. 

1886  Sur  les  notations  numeriques  dans  les  manuscrits  hieratiques  de 
Yucatan:  in  Archives  de  la  Societe  Americaine  de  France  (2d 
series),  v.  4,  p.  97-110.'     181. 

Powell,  John  Wesley 

1900  Report  of  the  Director  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology:  in 
Smithsonian  Institution,  Annual  Report,  Washington  [1901], 
p.  58-72.     171. 

Prescott,  William  H[ickling] 

1843  History  of  the  conquest  of  Mexico  with  a  preliminary  view  of  the 
ancient  Mexican  civilization  and  the  life  of  the  conqueror, 
Hernando  Cortes:  New  York,  8°,  3  v.  (Numerous  other 
editions.)     180. 


260  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Prichard,  James  Cowles 

1836-47    Researches  into  the  physical  history  of  mankind:  London,  8°, 

5  v.    (Enlarged  edition  of  1826,  London,  8°,  2  v.    Numerous 

other  editions.)     179,  182. 
1843    Natural  history  of  man,  etc. :  London,  8°,  xvi,  556  p.  (Numerous 

other  editions.)     161. 

Profecias  de  los  Mayas,  Las 

[These  are  found  in  several  of  the  Books  of  Chilam  Balam.  They 
first  appeared  in  Lizana,  1633.  Those  from  Mani,  Ixil,  and 
Chumayel  MSS.  are  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  Nos. 
43-3,  43-6.  Notes  by  C.  P.  Bowditch,  reproduced  by  Gates.] 
192. 

Quaritch,  Bernard.    Editor. 

1873  etseq.     (Numerous  sale  catalogues.    For  list,  see  Mitre,  1909-11, 
v.  1,  p.  62-63.)     154,  158. 
R.  Y. 

[Initials  of  writer  on  Maya  language  in  Repertorio  Pintoresco  of 
Merida.] 

Ramirez,  Jose  Fernando 

1880    Bibliotheca  Mexicana :  or,  A  catalogue  of  the  library  of  rare  books 

and  important   manuscripts   relating  to   Mexico   and   other 

parts  of  Spanish  America:    London,   8°,   iv,   165  p.     (Sale 

Catalogue.)     155,  158. 
1898    Biblioteca  Hispano-Americana  Septentrional.    Adiciones  y  cor- 

recciones  que  a  su  fallecimiento  dejo  manuscritas  el  Sr.  lie.  D. 

Jose  Fernando  Ramirez,  y  son  las  que  cita  con  el  nombre  de 

"  Suplemento  " ;    6  "  Adicion  "  en  las  apostillas  que  paso  a 

su  ejemplar  de  la  Biblioteca  hispano-americana  del  Dr.  D.  J. 

Mariano  de  Beristain  y  Souza:   Mexico,  12°,  xlvii,  (4),  662  p. 

(Nicolas  Leon,  Editor.)     (See  Beristain  y  Souza,    1816-21.) 

155. 

Raynaud,  Georges 

1891-92  L'histoire  Maya  d'apres  les  documents  en  langue  Yucateque 
(Chilam  Balam):  in  Archives  de  la  Societe  Americaine  de 
France  (n.  s.)  v.  7,  p.  145-159.    186,  188, 189. 

Regil,  Jose  Maria  and  Peon,  A.  M. 

1852  Estadistica  de  Yucatan.  Publicarse  por  acuerdo  de  la  R.  Socie- 
dad  de  Geografia  y  Estadistica,  de  27  de  Enero  de  1853:  in 
Boletin  de  la  Sociedad  de  Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica 
Mexicana,  v.  3,  p.  237-340.    159. 

Registro  Yucateco 

1845-49  Periodico  literario  (edited  by  Justo  Sierra):  Merida  and 
Campeche.     151, 158, 186,  204. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  261 

Rejon  Espinola,  Francisco 

1893  Vocabularios  comparativos  del  estado  de  Yucatan.  250  pala- 
tums en  la  lengua  Maya  y  Castellano  de  la  villa  de  Tizimin: 
Copy,  4°,  4  ff.  in  Peabody  Museum.     177,  181. 

Rejon  Garcia,  Manuel  (Marcos  de  Chimay) 

1905  Los  Mayas  primitivos.  Algunos  estudios  sobre  su  origen,  idioma 
y  costumbres:  Merida,  16°,  124  p.  1  f.     167, 180,  207. 

1905a  Supersticiones  y  leyendas  Mayas:   Merida,  16°,  147  p.    181, 194. 

1910    Etimologias    Mayas.      Los    nombres    de    varias    poblaciones 
Yucatecas.    Algo  sobre  su  origen:  Merida,  sm.  4°,  vi,  75  p. 
181. 
Remesal,  Antonio  de 

1620  Historia  general  de  las  Indias  Ocidentales  y  particular  de  la  go- 
vernacion  de  Chiapa,  y  Guatemala,  escrivese  juntamente  los 
principios  de  la  religion  de  nuestro  glorioso  padre  Santo  Do- 
mingo, y  de  las  demas  religiones:  Madrid,  4°,  6ff.,  784  p. 
(1619  on  eng.  tp.  There  is  a  second  title,  Historia  de  la 
Provincia  de  S  Vicente  de  Chyapas  y  Guatemala  de  la  orden  de 
Santo  Domingo).     153. 

Repertorio  Pintoresco 

1863     See  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1863. 

Revista  de  Merida,  La 

1859-1915,  1918-  [A  newspaper  of  Merida  often  publishing  articles 
on  the  Maya  language.]     158. 

Revista  Yucateca,  La 

1849  Periodico  politico  y  noticioso  sedienta  de  saber  la  inteligencia 
abarca  el  universo  en  su  gran  vuelo :  Merida,  2  v.     158. 

Rich,  Obadiah 

1835  Bibliotheca  Americana  Nova;  or,  A  catalogue  of  books  in  various 
languages  relating  to  America,  printed  since  the  year  1700: 
London,  8°,  2  ff.  424  p.  (Numerous  other  catalogues  by  Rich.) 
154. 

Rincon,  Antonio  del 

§  (1)  Sermones  en  la  lengua  de  los  naturales:  MS.  xvii  century  (mis- 
sing).    201. 

RlPALDA,    GERONIMO   DE 

See  Ruz,  1847  and  Charency,  1892a. 

Riva  Palacio,  Vicente.    Editor. 

1887-89  Mexico  a  traves  de  los  siglos:  historia  general  y  completa 
del  desenvolvimiento  social,  politico,  religioso,  militar,  artis- 
tico,  cientifico  y  literario  de  Mexico  desde  la  antiguedad  mas 
remota  hasta  la  epoca  actual;  obra  unica  en  su  genero:  Mex- 
ico, fol.  5  v.  (v.  1,  author,  Alfredo  Chavero,  subtitle  of  volume, 
Historia  antigua  y  de  la  conquista).     189, 190. 


262  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Rivas  Gastelu,  Diego 

§  (1)  Gramatica  de  la  lengua  de  los  Lacandones  (de  Guatemala): 
MS.  xvn  Century  (missing).    163.  4 

Rivera  Agustin 

1878  Compendio  de  la  historia  antigua  de  Mexico;  desde  los  tiempos 
primitivos  hasta  el  desembarco  de  Juan  de  Grijalva:  San  Juan 
de  los  Lagos,  8°,  v.  1,  447  p. .  183. 

RlVERO   FlGUEROA,    JOSE    DOLORES 

1918  Dos  vidas  ejemplares.  Ensayos  biograficos  del  Ilmo.  Sr.  Obispo 
de  Yucatan,  Don  Crescendo  Carrillo  y  Ancona  y  de  Monsenor 
Norberto  Dominguez:  Havana,  8°,  86  p.  (Francisco  Canton 
Rosado,  joint  author.)    147. 

Robelo,  Cecilio  A. 

1902    Toponimia  Maya-Hispano-Nahoa :  Cuernavaca,  8°,  81  p.     180. 

Rockstroh,  Edwin  and  Berendt,  C.  H. 

1878  Los  ihdigenas  de  la  America  Central  y  sus  idiomas,  resefia  ethno- 
grafica,  compilado  de  los  escritos  y  apuntes  del  Doctor  C. 
Hermann  Berendt.  Edicion  de  la  Sociedad  Economica, 
Guatemala.  (Only  the  first  16  p.  were  ever  completed). 
Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection.  This  copied  by 
Schuller  and  reproduced  by  Gates.)     162, 178. 

Romero,  Jose  Guadalupe 

1860    Noticia  de  las  personas  que  han  escrito  algunas  obras  sobre  idio- 
mas que  se  hablan  en  la  Repiiblica :  in  Boletin  de  la  Sociedad  de 
Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica  Mexicana,  p.  374-386. 
156. 

Romero  Fuentes,  Luis  C. 

1910  La  lengua  Maya.  Al  alcance  de  todos.  Manuel  que  contiene  34 
lecciones  compuestas  de  las  frases  mas  usuales,  presentadas 
con  un  metodo  sencillo  para  facilitar  su  aprendizaje:  Merida, 
12°,  100  p.  and  errata.     167. 

Rosny,  Leon  [Louis  Lucien  Prunol]  de 

1875  L'interpretation  des  anciens  textes  Mayas,  suivie  d'un  apercu  de 
la  grammaire  Maj^a,  d'un  choix  de  textes  originaux  avec  tra- 
duction et  d'un  vocabulaire :  Paris,  8°,  70  p.  1  f .  (Originally 
published  in  Archives  de  la  Societe  Americaine  de  France,  2d. 
series,  v.  1,  p.  53-118.  Spanish  edition  with  notes  by  Juan 
de  Dios  de  la  Rada  y  Delgado,  Madrid,  1881.  Republished  in 
de  Rosny,  1904,  p.  75-166.)     157,  165,  166,  176,  194,  199. 

1875a  Memoire  sur  la  numeration  dans  la  langue  et  dans  l'ecriture 
sacr6e  des  anciens  Mayas:  in  Proceedings  of  the  1st  Inter- 
national Congress  of  Americanists,  Nancy,  v.  2,  p.  439-458. 
(Republished  in  his  1904,  p.  167-192.)     182. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  263 

1887  Codex  Peresianus.    Manuscrit  hieVatique  des  anciens  Indiens  de 

1'AmeVique  Centrale  conserve  a  la  Bibliotheque  Nationale  de 
Paris,  publie*  en  couleurs:  4°,  94  p.  28  pis.  (2d  ed.  Paris, 
1888,  without  colors.)  176. 
1904  L'Amerique  pre-Colombienne.  Etudes  d'histoire,  de  linguistique 
&  de  paleographie  sur  les  anciens  temps  du  Nouveau-Monde : 
Paris,  8°,  xiv,  376  p.  (This  contains  reprints  of  his  1875, 
1875a,  etc. )     157,  165,  176,  194,  199. 

Rovirosa,  Jose  N. 

1888  Nombres  geogrdficos  del  estado  de  Tabasco:  Mexico,  8°,  36  p. 

180. 
Roys,  Ralph  L. 

1920    A  Maya  account  of  creation  (pis.  60-62,  Chilam  Balam  de  Chu- 
mayel) :  in  American  Anthropologist  (n.  s.)  v.  22,  p.  360-366. 
189. 
Ruz,  [Jose]  Joaquin  [Francisco  Carrillo  de].     142. 

1822  Catecismo  historico  6  compendio  de  la  istoria  sagrada  y  de  la 
Doctrina  Cristiana.  Con  preguntas,  y  respuestas,  y  lecciones 
seguidas  por  el  Abad  Fleuri;  y  traducidos  del  Castellano  al 
idioma  Yucateco  con  un  breve  exhorto  para  el  entrego  del 
Santo  Cristo  a  los  enfermos:  Merida,  16°,  3  ff.,  3-186  p.,  2  f. 
(Gates  reproduction.  Title  and  2  p.  (185,  186)  and  errata 
missing.)     197. 

1835  El  devoto  instruido  en  el  Santo  Sacrificio  de  la  Misa;  por  el  P. 
Luiz  Lanzi.  Traduccion  libre  al  idioma  Yucateco  con  unos 
afectos:  Merida,  4°,  9  ff.  (MS.  copy,  16°,  62  p.,  made  by 
Berendt  in  1873,  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  32.) 
(Leon  gives  an  edition  of  1839.)     198. 

1844  Gramatica  Yucateca  —  formada  para  la  instruccion  de  los  indige- 

nas,  sobre  el  compendio  de  D.  Diego  Narciso  Herranz  y  Quiros: 
Merida  16°,  (7),  8-119  p.  (Gates  reproduction.)  (English  ed. 
by  Kingdon,  1847.)     165. 

1845  Cartilla  6  silabario  de  lengua  Maya  para  la  ensefianza  de  los 

ninos  indigenas:  Merida,  24°,  16  p.  (2d  ed.  Berendt,  1871. 
Another  ed.  Merida,  1882.)  (Pilling  has  an  edition  of  1845, 
12°,  20  p.)     165,  166. 

1846  Manual  Romano  Toledano  y  Yucateco  para  la  administracion 

de  los  Santos  Sacramentos:   Merida,  8°,  9ff.,  6-191  p.    (Por- 
tion published  by  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg,  1869-70,  v.  2,  p.  121— 
122.)     198. 
1846-50    Coleccion  de  sermones  para  los  domingos  de  todo  el  ano,  y 
Cuaresma,  tornados  de  varios  autores,  y  traducidos  libremente 
al  idioma  Yucateco:  Merida,  8°,  4  v.  202.     The  contents  are 
as  follows : 
v.  1  (11,  145  p.  1846)  contiene  las  dominicas  desde  adviento 
hasta  quincuagesima. 


264  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Ruz,  [Jose]  Joaquin  [Francisco  Carrillo  de]  {continued). 
1846-50  Coleccion  de  sermones,  etc.  {continued). 

v.  2  (268  p.  1849)  contiene  desde  ceniza,  viernes  de  cua- 

resma  y  dominicas  hasta  pentescotes. 
v.  3   (254  p.   1850)   contiene  desde   pentescotes   hasta   la 

dominica  vigesimacuar/ta. 
v.  4  (228  p.  1850)  contiene  las  festividades  principales  del 
Senor,  de  Nuestra  Sefiora,  de  algunos  Santos,  y  cuatro 
platicas  de  animas,  sobre  el  dogma. 
1847     Catecismo  y  exposition  breve  de  la  Doctrina  Cristiana  por  el  P. 
Maestro  Geronimo  Ripalda,  de  la  compafiia  de  Jesus.    Tra- 
ducida  al  idioma  Yucateco,  con  unos  afectos  para  socorrer  a 
los  moribundos:    Merida,  16°,  88  p.     (2d  ed.  published  by 
Charency,  1892a.)     197. 
1847a  Explicacion  de  una  parte  de  la  Doctrina  Cristiana :  Instrucciones 
dogmatico-morales  en  que  se  vierte  toda  la  Doctrina  del  Cate- 
cismo romano,  por  el  R.  P.  M.  Fr.  Placido  Rico  Frontaura: 
se  amplian  los  diferentes  puntos  que  el  mismo  Catecismo  remite 
£  los  parrocos  para  su  extencion:   y  se  tratan  de  nuevo  otros 
importantes,  traducido  al  idioma  Yucateco:    Merida,  part  I, 
8°,  390,  3  p.    (Part  II  never  published.)     197. 
18476  See  Kingdon,  1847. 

1849  Via  Sacra  del  Divino  Amante  Corazon  de  Jesus  dispuesta  por  las 
cruces  del  Calvario,  por  el  Presbitero  Jose  de  Herrera  Villa- 
vicencio  .  .  .  traducida  al  idioma  Yucateco:  Merida,  24°, 
34  p.  (Gates  reproduction.)  198. 
1851  Analisis  del  idioma  Yucateco,  al  Castellano:  Merida,  16°,  16  p. 
(Gates  reproduction.)    197. 

(1)  Leti  u  cilich  Evangelio  Jesu  Cristo  hebix  San  Lucas .    MS.  106  p. 

in  Merida.  (Original  translation  of  chaps.  5,  11,  15,  23  of  St. 
Luke.    See  Kingdon,  1862,  1865,  and  Henderson,  1870.)    199. 

(2)  Catecismo  explicado  en  treinta  y  nueve  instrucciones,  sacadas  del 

romano:  la  parte,  Merida,  4°,  about  200  p.  (This  is  given  by 
Carrillo  y  Ancona  and  Leon,  1905,  p.  188.  Pilling,  1885,  No. 
3427  suggests  that  this  is  the  same  as  his  1822.)     197. 

(3)  Ebanhelio  Hezu   Clizto   (Zan  Lucas):    No  title,  p.   1-14,   16. 

(This  is  taken  with  few  changes  from  his  1.)     199. 

Sabin,  Joseph 

1868-92  A  dictionary  of  books  relating  to  America;  from  its  discovery 
to  the  present  time:  New  York,  8°,  20  v.    154. 

Salisbury,  Stephen 

1877  Dr  Le  Plongeon  in  Yucatan  [containing  letter  written  to  Mr. 
Salisbury  by  Le  Plongeon  from  Island  of  Cozumel,  June  15, 
1877]:  in  Proceedings  of  the  American  Antiquarian  Society, 
Worcester,  p.  70-119.  (Letter  originally  published  in  Boston 
Daily  Advertiser,  September  3,  4,  1877.)     160. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  265 

San  Buenaventura,  Gabriel  de 

1684    Arte  de  la  lengua  Maya :  Mexico,  8°,  (8)  ff.  4  p.  5-9,  (2),  10-41  ff. 

(Gates  reproduction.    Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection, 

No.  8.    For  2d  ed.  see  1888.)     (Ludewig  notes  an  edition  of 

1560.    This  is  a  mistake.)     163, 198. 

1888    Facsimile  reprint  of  1684  edition:   Mexico,  (8)  ff.  4  p.  5-9,  (2), 

10-41  ff.,  viii  p.    (Icazbalceta,  editor.) 
§  (1)     Diccionario  Maya-Hispano  e*  Hispano-Maya,  medico-bo  tanico 
regional;  3  v.  about  500  ff.  MS.  xvn  century  (missing.)    174. 
Sanchez  de  Aguilar,  Pedro 

(See  Aguilar.) 
Sanchez,  Jesus 

1886    Linguistica  de  la  Republica  Mexicana:    in  Anales  del  Museo 
National,  Mexico,  v.  3,  p.  279-280.     151,  156. 
San  Francisco,  Diccionario  de 

MS,  xvii  century  (missing).    (Copy  by  Perez:   4Q,  MS.  Maya- 
Spanish,  v  p.  93  ff.  10  p.;  Spanish-Maya,  101  ff.,  extra  leaves 
'  at  87a,  876,  87c.     (Gates  reproduction.     Copy  by  Berendt, 
1870,  4°,  2  v.,  vii,  364;  386  p.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection, 
No.  3.    See  Perez,  11  and  Meneses,  1.)    172, 174. 
Sapper,  Karl 

1893     Beit  rage  zur  Ethnographie  der  Republik  Guatemala:   in  Peter- 

mann's  Mitteilungen,  Gotha,  v.  39,  p.  1-14,  pi.  1.     159. 
[1895,  circa.]    La  lengua  de  San  Luis  (Peten):  16°,  MS.  note  book,  6  ff., 

in  possession  of  author  of  this  work.     177. 
1895a  Beitrage  zur  Ethnographie  von  Slidost-Mexiko  und  Britisch- 
Honduras:  in  Petermann's  Mitteilungen,  Gotha,  v.  41,  p.  177- 
186,  pi.  12.     169. 
1897    Das  nordliche  Mittel-Amerika  nebst  einem  Ausflug  nach  dem 
Hochland  von  Anahuac.    Reisen  und  Studien  aus  den  Jahren 
1888-95.    Braunschweig,  8°,  xii,  436  p.,  8  maps.    159.     Ap- 
pendix 4  (p.  407-436)  contains: 
Vergleichendes  Vocabular  culturgeschichtlich  interessanter 
Worter  der  Mayasprachen.     Nach  eigenen  Vocabularen 
und  StolPs  Ethnographie  zusammengestellt.     178. 
1905    Der  gegenwartige  Stand  der   ethnographischen   Kenntnis  von 
Mittelamerika :  in  Archiv  fur  Anthropologic  (n.  f.)  v.  3,  p.  1- 
38,  pis.  i-vii,  map.     159. 
Saville,  Marshal  H[oward].     Editor. 

1921  Reports  on  the  Maya  Indians  of  Yucatan:  in  Indian  Notes  and 
Monographs  of  the  Museum  of  the  American  Indian,  Heye 
Foundation,  New  York,  v.  9,  p.  137-226.  This  volume  con- 
tains the  following  English  translations: 

Santiago  Mendez:  The  Maya  Indians  of  Yucatan  in  1861. 
Sanchez  de  Aguilar:    Notes  on  the  superstitions  of  the 
Indians  of  Yucatan  (1639). 


266  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Saville,  Marshal  H[oward].    Editor  (continued). 
1921     Reports,  etc.  (continued). 

Francisco  Hernandez :  On  the  religious  beliefs  of  the  Indians 

of  Yucatan  in  1545  (from  Las  Casas). 
Glossary  of  Maya  terms. 
Bibliography.     157. 

Sayce,  Archibald  Henry 

1875  The  principles  of  comparative  philology:  (2d  ed.  revised  and 
enlarged,  London,  1875,  16°,  xxx,  (1)  f.,  416  p.  Numerous 
other  editions.)     166. 

SCHOMBURGK,    ROBERT   H[ERMANN] 

1848     Contributions  to  the  philological  ethnography  of  South  America: 
in  Proceedings  of  the  Philological  Society  of  London,  v.  3,  p.  228- 
237.     This  contains: 
Affinity  of  words  in  Guinau  with  other  languages  and  dia- 
lects of  America  (p.  236-237).     179. 

Schuller,  Rudolph  R.     Collator. 

(1)    [Collation  of  various  documents  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion.]   (Gates  reproduction.)    147.    This  volume  includes: 
Rockstroh,  1878. 

Utzolan  u  Xocol  from  Mani  MS.     184. 
Canciones  en  lengua  Maya  (Berendt,  1868c),  etc. 

Schultz-Sellack,  Carl 

1879  Die  amerikanischen  Gotter  der  vier  Weltgegenden  und  ihre 
Tempel  in  Palenque:  in  Zeitschrift  fur  Ethnologie,  v.  11,  p.  209- 
229.    194. 

Seler,  Eduard 

1887  Das    Konjugationssystem    der    Maya-Sprachen :     Leipzig,    8°, 

51  p.  (Republished  in  his  Gesammelte  Abhandlungen  zur 
Amerikanischen  Sprach-  und  Alterthumskunde,  Berlin,  v.  1, 
1902,  p.  65-126.)     167  (2). 

1888  Die  Tageszeichen  der  aztekischen  und  der  Maya-Handschriften 

und  ihre  Gottheiten :  in  Zeitschrift  fur  Ethnologie,  v.  20,  p.  10- 

97.    (Republished  in  his  Gesammelte  Abhandlungen,  etc.    v.  1, 

p.  417-503.)     177. 
1892     On  Maya  chronology:  in  Science,  v.  20,  n.  496.    (Republished  in 

his  Gesammelte  Abhandlungen,  etc.,  v.  1,  p.  557.)     183, 186. 
1895    Die  wirkliche  Lange  des  Katun's  der  Maya-Chroniken  und  der 

Jahresanfang   in   der   Dresdener   Handschrift   und   auf   den 

Copan-Stelen :  in  Zeitschrift  fur  Ethnologie,  v.  27,  p.  (441)-(449). 

(Republished  in  his  Gesammelte  Abhandlungen,   etc.,  v.   1, 

p.  577-587.     183,  186,  188,  189. 
1895a  Bedeutung  des  Maya-Kalenders  fair  die  historische  Chronologie: 

in  Globus,  v.  68,  p.  37-41.     (Republished  in  his  Gesammelte 

Abhandlungen,  etc.,  v.  1,  p.  588-599.)     183. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  267 

1898     Quetzalcouatl-Kukulcan  in  Yucatan :  in  Zeitschriftfur  Ethnologie, 
v.  30,  p.  377-410.     (Republished  in  his  Gesammelte  Abhand- 
lungen,  etc.,  v.  1,  p.  668-705.)     189. 
Semanario  Yucateco,  El 

1878-82     [A  periodical  published  in  Merida,  often  containing  articles  on 
the  Maya  language.]     158. 
Seminario  Conciliar,  El 

[A  periodical  published  in  Merida.]     158. 
Shea,  John  Gilmary 

1873-76    Languages  of  the  American  Indians :  in  American  Cyclopaedia 
(Ripley  G.  and  Dana,  C.  A.  editors),  New  York,  8°,  v.  1, 
p.  407^14.     166. 
Short,  John  T[homas] 

1880    The  North  Americans  of  antiquity.     Their  origin,  migrations, 
and  type  of  civilization  considered:    New  York,  8°,  544  p. 
(2d  ed.  1880).     187. 
Sierra,  Justo 

1841  [?]    Prof  etas  Yucatecas:    in  Museo  Yucateco.     (Republished  in 

1842  edition  of  Cogolludo,  1688.)     192. 
1842-45     2d  ed.  of  Cogolludo  (1688).     (This  contains  in  Appendix  a 
discussion  of  the  Maya  sounds.   This  is  reprinted  in  the  3d  ed. 
1867-1868,  v.  1,  p.  595.)     168. 
Sierra,  Justo  and  Vicente  Calero 

[Articles  in  El  Museo  Yucateco  and  El  Registro  Yucateco.] 
Siliceo,  Manuel 

1857    Memoria  de  la  Secretaria  .  .  .  de  Fomento:  Mexico,  folio,  map. 
159. 
Sivers,  Jegor  von 

1861     Ueber  Madeira  und  die  Antillen  nach  Mittelamerika.    Reise- 
denkwiirdigkeiten   und    Forschungen:    Leipzig,   sm.   8°,   xii, 
388  p.     181. 
Sobron,  Felix  C. 

1875  Los  idiomas  de  la  America  Latina.  Estudios  biografico-biblio- 
graficos:  Madrid,  12°,  137  p.     141. 

SOLANA,    ALONSO   DE       141. 

1580  Vocabulario  muy  copioso  en  lengua  Espariola  e  Maya  de  Yucatan : 
sm.  4°,  MS.  115  ff.  xvi  century:  in  Library  of  the  Hispanic 
Society  of  America,  New  York.  [Hispanic  MS.  may  be  a 
xvii  century  copy  of  the  xvi  century  original.]     169. 

§  (1)  Sermones  de  dominicas  y  Santos  en  lengua  Maya:  MS.  xvi 
century  (missing).     201. 

§  (2)  Noticias  sagradas  y  profanas  de  las  antigiiedades  y  conversion  de 
los  Indios  de  Yucatan:  MS.  xvi  century  (missing).    196. 

§  (3)  Apuntaciones  sobre  las  antigiiedades  Mayas  o  Yucatecas:  MS. 
xvi  century  (missing.)  (Probably  a  variant  title  for  2.  Molina, 


268  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Solana,  Alonso  de,  (3)  (continued). 

1904-10,  v.  1,  p.  329,  gives  a  third  variant  Historia  de  las 
antiguedades  de  los  Indios  Mayas  y  de  la  predication  de  la  fe  en 
Yucatan).     169. 

§  (4)     Estudios  historicos  sobre  los  Indios,  MS.  xvi  century  (missing). 

169. 
§  (5)     Apuntes  de  las  Santas  Escrituras:   MS.  xvi  century  (missing). 

(Molina,  1904-10,  v.  1,  p.  329  gives  a  variant  title,  Vidas  de 

varones  apostolicos.)     169. 
§  (6)     Apuntamientos  historicos    y  sagrados  de  la  promulgacion  del 

Evangelio  en  Yucathan,  y  sus  misiones:    MS.  xvi   century 

(missing).     (After  Alcedo.)     169. 

SOLIS   Y   ROSALES,    JOSE    VlCENTE 

1869  See  Nolasco  de  los  Reyes,  1869. 

1870  Vocabulario  de  la  lengua  Maya  compuesto  y  redactado  por  el 
•    uso  del  Sr.  Abate  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg:   Folio  MS.  18  ff. 

176. 

Sosa  [Escalante],  Francisco 

1866     Manuel  de  biografia  Yucateca:  Merida,  12°,  228  p.     157. 

1873     Don  Crescendo  Carrillo.     Ensayo  biografico:  in  Boletin  de  la 

Sociedad  de  Geografia  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica  Mexicana 

(Series  3),  v.  1,  p.  733-742.     147. 
1884    Biografias  de  Mexicanos  distinguidos :  Mexico,  8°,  xii,  1115,  8  p. 

167  (2). 

SOTUTA,    DOCUMENTOS   DEL   PUEBLO    DE 

[Various  papers  in  Maya.]  (Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  50-34,  p.  187-200.  See  Perez  (2).  Gaspar  Antonio 
Xiu,  possible  author.)     205. 

SOTUTA,  LlBRO  DEL  JuDIO  DE 

4°,  MS.  en  lengua  Maya  (incomplete),  58  p.;  (owned  by  Gates 
and  reproduced  by  him).     196. 

Spence,  Lewis 
[1913]    The  myths  of  Mexico  and  Peru:  New  York,  8°,  xiii,  366  p.   168. 

Spencer,  Herbert 

1873-1910  Descriptive  sociology  or  groups  of  sociological  facts  classi- 
fied and  arranged :  London  and  New  York,  folio,  10  v.  (Partial 
Spanish  ed.  by  Genaro  Garcia,  El  antiguo  Yucatan:  Mexico, 
1898,  8°,  153  p.)     162. 

Squier,  Ephraim  George 

1857  Nouvelles  decouvertes  d'antiquites  monumentales  dans  l'Ameri- 
que  Centrale:  in  Nouvelles  Annates  des  Voyages  et  des  Sciences 
Geographiques,  Paris,  v.  153,  p.  175-182.  (This  communica- 
tion introduces  a  letter  from  J.  A.  Urrutia,  p.  182-186.)     178. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  269 

1858  The  states  of  Central  America;  their  geography,  topography, 
climate,  population,  resources,  productions,  commerce,  politi- 
cal organization,  aborigines,  etc.:  New  York,  8°,  xvi,  17-782, 
maps,  pis.     (German  ed.  Leipzig,  1865.)     178. 

1861  Monograph  of  authors  who  have  written  on  the  languages  of 
Central  America,  and  collected  vocabularies  or  composed 
works  in  the  native  dialects  of  that  country:  New  York,  8°, 
xvi,  17-70  p.    (Another  ed.,  London,  1861.)     151,  156. 

Starr,  Frederick 
1901-04  Notes  upon  the  ethnography  of  southern  Mexico :  in  Proceed- 
ings of  the  Davenport  Academy  of  Sciences,  Davenport,  Iowa, 
v.  8,  p.  102-198;  v.  9,  p.  63-162,"  pis.    (Published  separately.) 
178. 
1908     In  Indian  Mexico.    A  narrative  of  travel  and  labor:    Chicago, 
8°,  xi,  425p.     177. 
Stein,  Henri 

1897    Manuel  de  bibliographie  generale.     (Bibliotheca  bibliographica 
nova):   Paris,  8°,  xx,  895  p.    This  contains: 
Philologie  Amenque  (p.  261-262).     155. 

Stephens,  John  L[loyd] 

1843  Incidents  of  travel  in  Yucatan:  New  York,  8°,  2  v.  xii,  9-459; 
xvi,  9-478  p.  (Other  editions  with  slight  variations  in  imprint 
are:  New  York,  1847,  1848,  1855,  1856,  1858,  1860,  1868. 
English  ed.  London,  1843.  Spanish  ed.  by  Justo  Sierra,  Cam- 
peche,  1848-50.  German  ed.  by  Meissner,  Leipzig,  1853.) 
180,  185,  186,  205. 
Stoll,  Otto 

1884    Zur  Ethnographie  der  Republik  Guatemala:    Zurich,  8°,  175, 

5  p.     map.     157,  159,  168,  178. 
1886     Guatemala.     Reisen  und  Schilderungen  aus  den  Jahren  1878- 
83;   Leipzig,  8°,  xii,  519  p.,  2  maps.     159,  178. 

Swanton,  John  R.  and  Thomas,  Cyrus 

1911     See  Thomas,  Cyrus  and  Swanton,  John  R. 

Tapia  Zenteno,  Carlos 

1767    For  copy  with  marginal  words  in  Maya,  see  Berendt,  1867a. 

Teabo,  Cuaderno  de 

(Copy  by  Berendt,  1868,  p.  93-96,  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  49.)     195. 

Teabo,  Oraciones  de 

12°,  MS.  en  la  lengua  Maya,  30,  76  p.  circa  1865-1884.    (Owned 
by  Gates  and  reproduced  by  him.)    202. 

Tekax,  Chilam  Balam  de 

4°,  MS.  36  p.  (incomplete).  (Owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced  by 
him.)     191. 


270  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Teodora,  Historia  de  la  Doncella 

(Copiado  del  Chilam  Balam  de  Mani  por  Juan  Pio  Perez.  Copy 
by  Berendt,  1868d,  v.  2,  p.  225-240  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Col- 
lection, No.  43-9.  See  also  Perez,  2.,  p.  31-37,  in  Berendt 
Linguistic  Collection,  No.  50-3.  Same  is  found  in  Chilam 
Balam  de  Kaua.)  184. 
Ternaux-Compans,  Henri 

1837    Bibliotheque  am^ricaine  ou  Catalogue  des  ouvrages  relatifs  a 
FAmerique  qui  ont  paru  depuis  sa  decouverte  jusqu'a  Fan 
1700:   Paris,  8°,  viii,  191  p.     154. 
1840-41     Vocabulaire  des  principales  langues  du  Mexique:  in  Nouvelles 
Annates  des  Voyages  et  des  Sciences  Geographiques,  Paris,  v.  88, 
p.  5-37,  v.  92,  p.  257-287.   (Copy  of  numerals  in  Berendt  Lin- 
guistic Collection,  No.  42-7.)     178, 182. 
1843    Notice  sur  le  Yucathan  tiree  des  ecrivains  espafiols:  in  Nouvelles 
Annates  des  Voyages  et  des  Sciences  Geographiques:  Paris,  v.  97, 
p.  30-52.     161,  180. 
Thomas,  Cyrus 

1881-82  Notes  on  certain  Maya  and  Mexican  manuscripts:  in  Bureau 
of  Ethnology,  Washington,  3d  Report,  p.  7-65,  pis.  i-iv.  190. 
This  contains: 

Symbols  of  the  cardinal  points,  p.  37-65. 
1882    Study  of  the  manuscript  Troano:    in  Contributions  to  North 
American  Ethnology,  Washington,  v.  5,  4°,  xxxvii,  237  p.  8  pis. 
(Introduction  by  D.  G.  Brinton.)     185. 
1894    The  Maya  language:  in  American  Antiquarian,  v.  16,  p.  244. 

161. 
1897-98    Numeral  systems  of  Mexico  and  Central  America;  in  Bureau 
of  Ethnology,  Washington,  19th  Report,  part  2,  p.  853-956. 
182. 
1902    Provisional  list  of  linguistic  families,  languages,  and  dialects  of 
Mexico  and  Central  America:    in  American  Anthropologist 
(n.  s.)  v.  4,  p.  207-216.    160. 
Thomas,  Cyrus  and  Swanton,  John  R[eed] 

1911     Indian  languages  of  Mexico  and  Central  America  and  their 
geographical  distribution :  in  Bureau  of  Ethnology,  Bulletin  44, 
Washington,  8°,  vii,  108  p.  map.     160. 
Tiburcio  Cervera,  Jose 

[Writer  on  Maya  language  in  Repertorio  Pintoresco  of  Merida.] 

TlCUL,    DlCCIONARIO   DE 

1690  MS.  Spanish-Maya,  154  ff.  Original  MS.  missing.  Copy  by 
Perez  (1836)  missing.  Another  copy  by  Perez  (1847,  146  p.). 
Printed  in  Perez  (1898,  p.  123-296),  with  following  title  Co- 
ordination alfabetica  de  la  coleccion  de  voces  de  la  lengua  Maya, 
compuesta  por  varios  autores,  hallada  en  el  Archivo  de  Libros 
Bautismales  del  Pueblo  de  Ticul  en  el  ano  de  1836,  copiada  en 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  271 

dicho  ano  por  Juan  Pio  Perez  y  arreglada  en  184.7  por  el  mismo. 
(Rearranged  in  Maya-Spanish  order  by  Perez  (1847a),  133  p. 
Copy  by  Berendt  (1870)  of  Maya-Spanish  and  Spanish-Maya: 
4°,  2  v.  268;  241  p.  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  2. 
See  Perez,  1836:  1847:  1847a:  1898:  7.)     173. 

TlCUL,    DOCUMENTOS   DE 

1760  et  seq.     MS.  collection  of   deeds  and   legal   papers,     4°,  62  p. 
(owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced  by  him).    205. 
Ticul,  Manuscrito  de 

See  Xiu  Chronicles. 
Tmosuco,  Chilam  Balam  de 

[MS.  known  only  by  name.]     191. 
Tixcocob,  Chilam  Balam  de 

[MS.  known  only  by  name.]     191. 
Tizimin,  Chilam  Balam  de 

4°,  MS.,  52  p.  (Gates  reproduction.)  (There  is  a  Berendt  copy, 
1868,  in  the  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  49.  Gates 
owns  second  copy,  8°,  35  ff.,  also  reproduced  by  him.)  (This 
MS.  is  also  called  the  Codice  Anonimo.)     189. 

TORQUEMADA,    JUAN   DE 

1613     Los  veinte   i   un  libros   rituales  i   monarchia   Indiana,  con  el 
origen  y  guerras  de  los  Indios  occidentales,  de  sus  poblaciones, 
descubrimiento,  conquista,  conversion,  y  otras  cosas  maravil- 
losas  de  la  mesma  tierra:  Madrid.    (2d  ed.  by  Barcia,  Madrid, 
1723,  4°,  3  v.     768;  623;  iv,  634  p.     Other  editions.)     153. 
Torralva,  Francisco  de 
§  (1)     Sermones  de  Dominicas  y  Santos,  para  predicar  a  los  Indios  todos 
los  dias,  en  lengua  Maya  6  Iucateca,  mui  clara  i  elegante: 
-    MS.  xvi-xvii  century  (missing).     201. 
Tozzer,  Alfred  M[arston]. 

1901  Modern  Maya  texts  with  Spanish  translation  and  grammatical 
notes,  collected  near  Valladolid,  Yucatan:  8°,  MS.  175  p.  207. 
1902-05  Reports  of  the  Fellow  in  American  Archaeology  of  the  Ar- 
chaeological Institute  of  America:  in  American  Journal  of 
Archaeology  (2d  series),  Supplements,  v.  6,  p.  2-4;  v.  7,  p.  45- 
49;  v.  8,  p.  54-56;  v.  9,  p.  45-47.     162. 

1906  Notes  on  the  Maya  pronoun:  in  Boas  Anniversary  Volume,  New 

York,  p.  85-87.     167. 

1907  A  comparative  study  of  the  Mayas  and  the  Lacandones:   New 

York,  8°,  195  p.,  xxix  pis.     168,  207. 

1910  The  animal  figures  in  the  Maya  codices :  in  Papers  of  the  Peabody 
Museum,  Cambridge,  v.  3,  p.  272-372,  39  pis.  (Glover  M. 
Allen,  joint  author.)     168. 

1912  A  classification  of  Maya  verbs:  in  Proceedings  of  the  17th  Inter- 
national Congress  of  Americanists,  Mexico  (1910),  p.  233-237. 
167. 

%  ^7.  ~   ■       ..  -— > 


272  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Tozzer,  Alfred  M[arston]  (continued). 

1917  The  Chilam  Balam  books  and  the  possibility  of  their  translation: 

in  Proceedings  of  the  19th  International  Congress  of  American- 
ists, Washington  (1915),  p.  178-186.    157, 182, 195. 

1918  Bibliographical  notes  on  the  linguistic  and  other  material  from 

Middle  America  in  the  Bancroft  Library  of  the  University  of 
California,  Berkeley:  4°,  MS.  101  ff.     156. 
Tregear,  Edward 

1898    Notes  on  Maya  and  Malay:  in  Journal  of  the  Polynesian  Society, 
v.  7,  p.  101-108.     161. 
T[roncoso],  F[rancisco  del]  P[aso  y]     Translator. 

1883  Los  Libros  de  Chilam  Balam:  (Translation  of  Brinton,  18826,) 
in  Anales  del  Museo  Nacional,  Mexico,  v.  3,  p.  92-109,  (with 
many  original  notes).     183, 185, 191,  193,  194. 

Trttbner,  Nicolas 

1858    Editor  of  Ludewig,  1858. 

1865    American  literary  intelligence :  in  American  and  Oriental  Literary 
Record,  No.  1,  London.     170. 
Trubner  and  Co.     Editors. 

1882     Catalogue  of  dictionaries  and  grammars  of  the  principal  lan- 
guages and  dialects  of  the  world:    London,  2d.  ed.  12°,  viii, 
170  p.     (Sale  catalogue.)     (Also  many  previous  catalogues.) 
158. 
Umery,  J. 

1863  Sur  l'identite*  du  mot  mere  dans  les  idiomes  de  tous  les  peuples: 
in  Revue  Orientate  et  Americaine,  Memoir es  de  la  Societe  d' Ethno- 
graphic, Series  1,  Paris,  v.  8,  p.  335-338.     179. 

Urrutia,  J.  A. 

1857    See  Squier,  1857. 
Valentini,  Philipp  J[ohann]  J[osef] 

1880    The  katunes  of  Maya  history:   in  Proceedings  of  the  American 
Antiquarian  Society,  (1879),  p.  71-117.    (Published  separately, 
Worcester,  1880.)     185, 186. 
1896     Das  geschichtliche  in  den  mythischen  Stadten  "Tulan":    in 
Zeitschrijt  filr  Ethnologie,  v.  28,  p.  44-55.     185. 
Vales,  Jose  Pilar.     Translator. 

[1870]  U  oibhuun  hach  noh  tzicbenil  Ahaucaan  Ahmiatz  Leandro 
Rodriguez  de  la  Gala  ti  u  hach  yamailoob  mohenoob  yanoob 
tu  nachilcahtaliloob  Nohol  y  Chikin  ti  le  luumcabil  Yucatan 
laa:  Ho  (Merida),  8°,  8  p.  (Pastoral  sermon  translated  into 
Maya.)     (Gates  reproduction.)     202. 

Valez,  Manuel  A. 
1893    Vocabularios  comparativos  del  estado  de  Yucatan,  250  palabras 
en  la  lengua  Maya  y  Castellano  del  pueblo  de  Sotuta:  Copy, 
4°.,  MS.,  4  ff.  in  Peabody  Museum.     177, 181. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  273 

Valladolid,  Bernardino  de    141. 
§  (1)     Conclusiones  de  todas  las  materias  de  los  Sacramentos  en  Latin 

y  en  Yucateco:   MS.  xvn  century  (missing).    197. 
§  (2)     Dioscorides  en  lengua  de  Yucatan,  con  adiciones  et  conciones 

theologicas  en  idioma  Yucateco:  MS.  xvn  century  (missing). 

201. 
§  (3)     Vocabulario:   MS.  xvn   century,  [?]  missing.    (After  Ludewig, 

1858,  p.  103.)     172. 

Vater,  Johann  Severin 

1806-17    See  Adelung. 

1810  Untersuchungen  liber  Amerika's  Bevolkerung  aus  dem  alten 
Kontinente  dem  Herrn  Kammerherrn  Alexander  von  Hum- 
boldt: Leipzig,  8°,  xii,  212  p.     179. 

1815  Linguarum  totius  orbis  index  alphabeticus,  quarum  grammatical, 
lexica,  collectiones  vocabularum  recensentur,  patria  significa- 
tur  historia  adumbratur:  Berlin,  8°,  10,259  p.  (Text  in  German 
and  Latin.  This  contains  the  bibliographical  notices  in  first 
two  volumes  and  the  first  part  of  v.  3  of  Adelung,  1806-1817. 
German  edition  by  B.  Jiilg,  Berlin,  1847.)     154. 

Vela,  Jos£  Canuto.     Translator. 

1848  Pastoral  del  Ilustrfsimo  Senor  Obispo  (Jose  Maria  Guerra)  diri- 
gida  a  los  indfgenas  de  esta  diocesis:  Merida,  16°,  8  p.  in  Maya 
and  "Spanish.  (Gates  reproduction.)  (There  is  possibly  a 
later  edition  of  this.  See  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1870;  ed.  1872, 
p.  186.)     202. 

1848a  Carta  que  yo  presidente  de  la  Mision  evangelica  dirijo  a"  los 
caudillos  de  los  Indios  sublevados  del  Sur  y  Oriente  de  esta 
peninsula  de  Yucatan,  Ven  Tekax,  23  de  febrero  de  1848:  1 
leaf,  Merida.  202. 
(1)  [Some  grammatical  notes  on  the  Maya  language.  MS.  once 
owned  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona.  See  his  1870;  ed.  1872,  p.  187.] 
166. 

Vidales,  Luis 
§(1)     Vocabulario  Hispano-Maya  y  Maya-Hispano :   MS.  xvn  century 

(missing).    172. 
§  (2)     Sintaxis  de  la  lengua  Maya:   MS.  xvn  century  (missing).    163. 
§  (3)     Florilegia  medicinal  propio  de  la  provincia  de  Yucatan:    MS. 

xvn  century  (missing?).     195. 

VlLLAGUTIERRE    Y   SOTOMAYOR,    JUAN 

1701  Historia  de  la  conquista  de  la  provincia  de  el  Itza,  reduccion  y 
progressos  de  la  de  el  Lacandon  y  otras  naciones  de  Indios 
barbaros,  de  la  mediacion  de  el  reyno  de  Guatimala,  a  las 
provincias  de  Yucatan,  en  la  America  Septentrional;  Primera 
parte.     4°,  Madrid,  33  ff.,  660  p.,  17  ff.     163, 180. 


274  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

VlLLALPANDO,    LUIS   DE      144. 

1571  Diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya:  Mexico,  4°  (see  1).  (Brinton, 
1882,  p.  74,  states  one  copy  at  least  is  in  existence.)     169. 

§  (1)     Arte  de  la  lengua  Maya:  MS.  xvi  century  (missing).     162, 169. 

§  (2)     Doctrina  Cristiana  en  idioma  Yucateco  6  Maya:   MS.  xvi  cen- 
tury (missing).     196. 
Villanueva,  Juan  Jose.     Translator. 

1864  Proclama  del  Comisario.  Traducida  en  lengua  Maya.  Impresso 
en  hoja  suelta.  (Copy,  12°,  5  p.  by  Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguis- 
tic Collection,  No.  42-17.)     206. 

VlNAZA,    [ClPRIANO    MANZANO],    CONDE    DE    La 

1892     Bibliografia  Espariola  de  lenguas  indigenas  de  America:  Madrid, 
8°,  xxv,  1  f.  427,  (5)  p.     150,  151,  155. 
Waldeck,  Frederic 

1838  Voyage  pittoresque  et  arch£ologique  dans  la  Province  d'Yucatan 
(Am£rique  Centrale),  pendant  les  annees  1834  et  1836:  Paris, 
folio,  x,  110  p.  map,  pis.    This  contains: 

Vocabulaire  Maya  avec  les  noms  de  nombre  et  quelques 
phrases  a  l'usage  des  voyageurs  (Spanish,  French,  Maya), 
p.  79-80.     (Copy  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No. 
42-13.)     176  (2),  180,  181,  206. 
Wilkins,  E.  Percival 

1919     [Report  and  translation  of  one  chapter  of  Ritual  of  the  Bacabs, 
read  by  Gates  at  meetings  of  the  American  Anthropological 
Association,  Cambridge,  December,  1919].     196. 
(1)     Ritual  of  the  Bacabs.    (Text  and  translation  in  preparation.) 
196. 
[Wilkinson,  Paul] 

1914  The  library  of  .  .  .  scarce  books,  manuscripts  and  other  ma- 

terial relating  to  Mexico:    New  York,  8°,  81  p.     (Sale  cata- 
logue.)    156, 158. 

1915  Illustrated  catalogue  of  books,  maps  and  documents  relating  to 

Mexico,  Central  America  and  the  Maya  Indians  of  Yucatan: 
New  York,  8°,  483  nos.  (Sale  catalogue.)  156, 158,  204. 
(1)  Bio-bib] iographical  accounts  of  the  writers  on  Yucatan  and 
Central  America  with  special  relation  to  those  who  have 
treated  of  the  Maya  race  and  "Mayaland":  4°,  MS.  contained 
in  a  loose-leaved  note-book  in  the  Library  of  Congress,  Wash- 
ington (Handbook  of  manuscripts,  p.  265).  156.  Among 
other  items  this  volume  contains : 

An  incomplete  list  of  the  works  of  Acosta,  Berendt,  Brasseur 
de  Bourbourg,  Brinton,  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  Las  Casas, 
Cortes,  Bernal  Diaz,  Juan  Diaz,  Gage,  Gomara,  Herrera, 
Martyr,  Oviedo,  Perez,  Ruz,  Solis,  and  Squier. 
List  of  the  Relaciones  (from  Coleccion  de  Documentor  Ineditos 
(1898-1900). 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  275 

Tentative  arrangement  of  the  Maya  dialects.     160. 
Definition  of  Spanish  terms,  such  as  adelantado,  audiencia, 

etc. 
Article  on  Folk-Lore . 
List  of  Maya  codices. 

List  of  Books  of  Chilam  Balam  and  Maya  prophecies. 
List  of  Chronicles. 
Bibliographies  of  bibliographies. 
Special  bibliographies  such  as  Bandelier  and  Haebler. 
General  bibliographies  such  as  Le6n  Pinelo  and  Nicolas 

Antonio. 
Bibliography  of  general  works  such  as  Fiske  and  Winsor. 
Bibliography  of  writers  on  Maya  inscriptions  (four  entries 

only). 
Entries  regarding  Columbus. 
Books  on  the  discovery  of  America. 
Early  maps  and  navigation. 
Early  suggestions  and  accounts  of  Yucatan. 
The  main  body  of  the  manuscript  is  taken  up  with  a  general 
bibliography,    arranged    chronologically,    of   books   and 
manuscripts  dating  from  1524  to  1912.    The  entries  are 
taken,  for  the  most  part,  from  Medina   (1898-1907), 
Martinez  Alomia  (1906),  Squier  (1861),  Beristain  y  Souza 
(1816-21),  and  Gates  (2). 
Winsor,  Justin 

1889     Narrative  and  critical  history  of  America :  Boston,  1.  8°,  8  v.    155, 
162. 
Xiu,  Gaspar  Antonio  [also  called  Chi  or  Herrera] 
§  1582    Relacion  sobre  las  costumbres  de  los  indios  de  Yucatan  (missing). 
169. 
§  (1)     Vocabulario  Maya  6  de  la  lengua  de  Yucatan:  MS.  xvi  century 
(missing) .     169. 
See  also  Sotuta,  Documentos  de. 
Xiu  Chronicles  • 

1608  et  seq.     4°,  MS.  1608-1817,  164  p.,  owned  by  Peabody  Museum. 
(Reproduced  by  Gates  and  by  C.  P.  Bowditch,  latter  with  in- 
troduction by  A.  C.  Breton.)    (Also  called  the  Ticul  MS.  and 
the  Cronica  de  Oxkutzcab.)     203. 
Xiu  de  Oxkutzcab 

See  Oxkutzcab,  Chilam  Balam  de 
Xtepen,  Papeles  de 

Dos  piezas  de  las  papeles  de  la  Hacienda  Xtepen  de  Don  Joaquin 
Hubbe  (en  lengua  Maya) .    (Copy,  12°,  2  p.  in  Berendt  Linguis- 
tic Collection  No.  44-8.)    205. 
Zavala,  M. 

1896    Gramatica  Maya:  Merida,  8°,  94  p.    167. 


276  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Zavala,  M.  and  Medina,  A. 

1898    Vocabulario  Espafiol-Maya :  Merida,  8°,  72  p.     177. 

Zayas  Enriquez,  Rafael  de 

1908    El  estado  de  Yucatan,  su  pasado,  su  presente,  su  porvenir:  New- 
York,  8°,  366  p.     160. 

ZUNIGA,    P. 

(1)     [MS.  formerly  in  Carrillo  y  Ancona  collection  regarding  deriva- 
tion of  word  Yucatan.]     180. 


Anon. 

1514-72  Un  libro  que  contiene  varias  cartas  escritas  &  S.  ,M.  por  los 
governadores,  obispos,  oficiales  reales,  caciques,  e*  indios  de  la 
provincia  de  Yucatan :  4°,  MS.  in  El  Archivo  General  de  Indias, 
Se^illa.  (Several  of  the  letters  are  in  the  Maya  language.) 
206. 

1542  [Official  doeument  in  Maya  still  preserved  on  authority  of  D.  G. 
Brinton.]     203. 

1803  Modo  de  confesar  en  lengua  Maya:  12°,  MS.  from  Campeche, 
38  ft",  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  26.  (Copy  by 
Berendt  in  Berendt,  1868a,  p.  231-257.  This  copy  reproduced 
by  Gates.)     198. 

1820  Apuntes  sobre  algunas  plantas  medicinales  de  Yucatan,  escritos 
por  un  fraile  franciscano  de  Campeche :  4°,  MS.,  20  ff.  (Owned 
by  Gates.)     195. 

1845  Manuscrito  antiguo  (probably  the  Chilam  Balam  de  Oxkutzcab) : 
in  Registro  Yucateco,  v.  1,  p.  360.     190. 

1860  Colecci6n  polidi6mica  Mexicana  que  contiene  la  Oraci6n  Domin- 
ical vertida  en  cincuenta  y  dos  idiomas  indfgenos  de  aquella 
Republica:  Mexico,  1.  8°,  vii,  52  p.  (Reprint  in  Boletin  de  la 
Sociedad  Geografla  y  Estadistica  de  la  Republica  Mexicana 
(Ser.  4),  v.  1,  1888,  p.  151-179.)  (Pilling  mentions  an  earlier 
ed.  of  1859.)     199. 

1868  Bibliotheca  Mexicana.  Catalogue  d'une  collection  de  livres 
rares  (principalement  sur  Thistoire  et  la  linguistique)  reunie  au 
Mexique  par  M.  *  *  *   :   Paris,  8°,  47  p.     155, 158. 

1871  Dos  oraciones  en  lengua  Maya.  (Copiados  de  una  hoja  suelta 
numerada  21,  que  es  de  alguno  libro:  MS.  en  poder  de  Car- 
rillo y  Ancona.  Copy,  12°,  4  p.,  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  44-10).     202. 

1883  Doctrina  an6nima  (en  lengua  Maya) :  Merida  (with  approval  of 
Bishop  de  la  Gala  by  Secretary,  Carrillo  y  Ancona).  (See 
Baeza,  1883.)     198. 

1891  The  Lord's  Prayer  in  three  hundred  languages:  London.  199. 
[1893]  Vocabularios  comparativos  del  estado  de  Yucatan.  250  pala- 
bras  en  la  lengua  Maya  y  Castellano  del  pueblo  de  Sotuta: 
Copy,  4°,  MS.,  4  ff.  in  Peabody  Museum.     177, 181. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  277 

1897  Modo  de  administrar  los  santos  Sacramentos  de  Sagrada  Vidtico 

Matrimonio  Extrema  Uncion  en  lengua  Maya  con  una  breve 
explicacion  acerca  del  examen  de  Conciencia  y  la  Comunion: 
Merida,  16°,  52  p.  198. 
1897a  Homenajes  funebres  tributados  a  la  memoria  del  Ilustrisimo 
Sefior  Doctor  Don  Crescendo  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  Obispo  de 
Yucatan,  con  motivo  de  su  muerte,  acaecida  el  19  de  Marzo  de 
1897:  Merida.     147. 

1898  Vocabulario  de  las  palabras  de  las  lenguas  Maya  y  Mejicana 

usadas  y  explicadas  de  las  relaciones :  in  C election  de  Documen- 
ts Ineditos,  (2d  series),  v.  11,  p.  435-436.     178. 

1900  The  Henderson  Maya  dictionary:  in  American  Anthropologist 
(n.  s.)  v.  2,  p.  403-404.  (See  Report,  Smithsonian  Institution, 
Washington,  1867,  p.  420-421.)     174. 

1905    See  Audomaro  Molina,  1905. 

(1)  Acto  de  Contricion  en  Maya:  12°,  MS.,  38  ff.    ("  Copiado  de  un 

cuadernito  ms.  ...  en  poder  de  D.  J.  Dolores  Espinoza, 
Merida,"  by  Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No. 
42-14.)     198. 

(2)  Algunos  apuntes  sobre  la  historia  antigua  de  Yucatan:  16°,  MS. 

14  ff.  in  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  Paris.  (Gates  reproduction.) 
168. 

(3)  Alocucion  de  Indios  Mayas  d,  Maximilian  (en  lengua  Maya.) 

(Copy  by  Berendt,  12°,  2  p.,  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection, 
No.  42-18.)     206. 

(4)  Borrador  de  un  sermon   (en  lengua  Maya):    1,2°,   MS.,  4  p. 

("  MS.  del  autor  del  Vocabulario  en  lengua  de  Maya  en  Prov- 
idence" (Motul  dictionary):  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  42^t) .     (See  Anon,  30.)     201. 

(5)  Diccionario  de  la  lengua  Maya:  12°  MS.  xvm  century,  If.  No. 

277  "  va."    Owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced  by  him.     174. 

(6)  Doctrina  en  el  dialecto  de  la  Montana  de  Holmul  (Peten):  4°, 

MS.  12  ff.  (Berendt  copy,  Sacluc,  1867,  in  Berendt  Linguistic 
Collection,  No.  42-10.)     197. 

(7)  Doctrina  en  lengua  Maya:  8°,  MS.  xviii  century,  34  p.    (Owned 

by  Gates  and  reproduced  by  him.)     197. 

(8)  Documentos  en  la  lengua  Maya  desde  el  afio  1571,  1663,  etc.: 

Mssel.  MSS.  (mostly  4°).  (Owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced, 
4°,  101  p.,  by  him.)     203. 

(9)  Doctrina  necesaria  para  confesarse  en  la  regla.     Dispuesta  en 

lengua  Maya:  Merida,  24  p.  (This  is  probably  the  same  work 
as  Baeza,  1883.)  198. 
(10)  "  Especie  de  circular  6  manifiesto  de  la  reina  de  Inglaterra  .  .  . 
&  manera  de  cartelon,  con  grandes  y  hermosos  caract£res  en 
idioma  Maya,  el  cual  fue  desprendido  de  una  esquina  de  calle 
publica."  (Mentioned  by  Carrillo  y  Ancona,  1870;  ed.  1872, 
p.  190.)    206. 


278  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Anon,  (continued). 

(11)  Forma   de  administrar  el  Viatico  en  lengua   Maya.     ("  Copia 

[12°,  12  p.]  tomada  de  un  ms.  moderno  de  principios  de  este 
siglo,  en  poder  de  Presbitero  D.  Crescendo  Carrillo,  Merida, 
September,  1868  "  by  Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collec- 
tion, No.  42-12.)     198. 

(12)  Hari  va  vuh  ru  lokolah  evangelio  cheri  Kanim  Ahauh,  Kanima 

Kolonel,  Jesu  Christo  Incheel  Tantzibatal  Rome  San  Marco: 
16°,  79  p.     200. 

(13)  Judio,  Libro  del:  16°,  MS.  en  lengua  Maya,  156  p.    (Original  in 

Peabody  Museum,  Gates  reproduction.)     195. 

(14)  El  libro  de  los  medicos,  yervateros  de  Yucatan  6  noticias  sobre 

yervas  y  animales  medicinales  Yucatecos  sacados  de  los  anti- 
guos  libros  Mayas  de  Chilam  Balam,  calendarios  y  demas  co- 
pias  curiosas.  8°,  MS.,  72-117  ff.  of  a  note  book.  (Gates 
reproduction.)     195. 

(15)  Medicina,  Libro  de:  12°,  MS.  en  lengua  Maya,  176  p.    (Owned 

by  Gates  and  reproduced  by  him.)     195. 

(16)  Medicina  Maya.    4°,  MS.  in  lengua  Maya.    94,  2  ff.  (ff.  8,  52-57, 

60-73,  75-92  missing.  Owned  by  Gates  and  reproduced  by 
him).    195. 

(17)  Modo  de  administrar  el  sagrado  viatico  en  lengua  Maya.    Copi- 

ado  del  Via  Crusis:  12°,  MS.  2  p.  (in  Berendt  Linguistic  Col- 
lection, No.  42-16.    See  Nolasco  de  los  Reyes,  1869).  198  (2). 

(18)  Modo  de  administrar  el  Santissimo  Sacramento  de  la  Eucaristia 

como  viatico  (en  lengua  Maya).  MS.  (copy  12°,  7  p.  by 
Berendt  in  Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  42-15).     198. 

(19)  Noticias  de  varias  plantas  y  sus  virtudes  (de  Yucatan).    MS.  in 

Merida  (copy  by  Berendt,  16°,  29  p.  Reproduction  by  Gates 
of  Berendt  copy).     195. 

(20)  Pasion  domini  en  la  lengua  Maya:   12°,  MS.,  44  p.     (Owned  by 

Gates  and  reproduced  by  him.)    198. 

(21)  Sermones  en  la  lengua  Maya:  4°,  MS.,  144  p.    (Owned  by  Gates 

and  reproduced  by  him.)     202. 

(22)  Sermones  en  la  lengua  Maya:  4°,  MS.,  196  ff.,  xvm  century. 

(Copy  by  Berendt,  1868a.  p.  119-229:  in  Berendt  Linguistic 
Collection,  No.  47.  Reproduction  by  Gates  of  Berendt  copy.) 
201. 

(23)  De  Trinitate  Dei  en  la  lengua  Maya  6  del  Ser  de  Dios:  8°,  MS., 

incomplete,  12  p.    (Gates  reproduction.)    198. 

(24)  U  mutil  vine  zanzamal  (fama  diaria  del  hombre) :   MS.  1  p. :  in 

Berendt  Linguistic  Collection,  No.  50-18.  (See  Perez,  2, 
p.  94.)     206. 

(25)  Vocabulario  de  la  lengua  Maya:  8°,  MS.,  (in  la  Libreria  de  San 

Gregorio  de  Mexico,  after  Vifiaza,  No.  1134).     177. 

(26)  Vocabulario  de  la  lengua  Maya  (with  a  short  list  of  grammatical 

forms):  8°,  MS.  modern, .98  p.  (Owned  by  Gates  and  repro- 
duced by  him.)     166, 177. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  279 

(27)  Vocabulaire  de  la  langue  Maya  en  Anglais,  d'environ  deux  mille 
mots,  travail  moderne,  tres-incomplet  fait  a  Belize.  (MS.  once 
belonging  to  Brasseur  de  Bourbourg.  See  his  1857-59,  v.  1, 
p.  lxxxix.)  176. 
§(28)  Vocabulario  grande  Yucatano  (after  Cogolludo  lib.  iv.  cap.  vi.) 
171. 

(29)  Cuento  de  vieja.    U  tzichbal  xnuc :  Broadside,  1  sheet.    Parallel 

columns,  Spanish  and  Maya.    Merida.    207. 

(30)  [Two  sermons  in  Maya]  16°,  MS.  6  ff.  in  John  Carter  Brown 

Library,  Providence.    (This  is  probably  the  same  as  Anon,  4.) 
201. 
§(31)     Un  librillo  escrito  .  .  .  en  el  idioma  de  los  Indios.    MS.  xvi  cen- 
tury (missing,  after  Cogolludo,  lib.  2,  cap.  xiv.)     192. 


Harvard  University 
May  21,  1921 


APPENDICES 


APPENDIX  I 


PARADIGMS 
Verb  Classification 


Class  Ia.     Verbs  of  action  or  state. 

Transitive 

Present       tin  (tan-in)  het-ik 

* 

Future        hen  (he-in)  het-ik-e 

kin  (ki-in)  het-ik 

bin  in  het-e 

tin  (t-in}  het-ah 

o'in  (o'on-in)  het-ah 

in  het-m-ah 
Imperative  het-e 

Intransitive 

Present       tin  (tan-in)  het-el  or  het-el-in-     I  am  performing  the  act  of  opening 
kah  (het-1-in-kah) 


Past 


3ok   «r 


I  am  opening  something,  my  open- 
ing something 
I  shall  open  something 
I  may  open  something 
I  am  going  to  open  something 
I  opened  something 
I  have  just  opened  something 
I  opened  something  a  long  time  ago 
open  it 


Future 

hen  (he-in)  het-el-e 
bin-het-ak-en 

I  shall  open 

I  am  going  to  open 

Past 

het-en  or  t'-het-en 
o'in  het-el 

I  performed  the  act  of  opening,  I 

opened 
I  have  just  opened 

Imperative  net-en 

open 

Passive 

Present 

tun  (tan-u)  het-s-el 

it  is  being  opened,  its  being  affected 
by  someone  causing  it  to  open 

Future 

hu  (he-u)  het-s-el-e, 
het-s-ak-i 

or 

bin 

it  will  be  opened 

Past 

het-s-ah-b-i,  or  het-s 

-ah 

-n-i 

it  was  opened 

Class  Ib.     Verbs  of  action 

or 

state  with  causal 

Transitive 

Present       tin  (tan-in),  kim-s-ik 

Future        hen  (he-in)  kim-s-ik-e 
kin  (ki-in)  kim-s-ik 
bin  in  kim-s-e,  or  bin  in  kim-e 

Past  tin  (t-in)  kim-s-ah 

o'in  (o'ok-in)  kim-s-ah 
in  kim-s-m-ah 

Imperative  kim-s-e  or  kim-e-s 

283 


I  am  killing  something,  my  causing 

death  to  something 
I  shall  kill  something 
I  may  kill  something 
-s  I  am  going  to  kill  something 
I  killed  something 
I  have  just  killed  something 
I  killed  something  a  long  time  ago 
kill  it 


284 


APPENDIX  I 


Class  Ib.     Verbs  of  action  or  state  with  causal  (continued) 

Intransitive 

Present       tin  (tan-in)  kim-il,  or  kim-il- 

in-kah  (kim-1-in-kah) 
Future        hen  (he-in)  kim-il-e 

bin  kim-ak-en 
Past  kim-i,  or  t'-kim-i 

o'u  kim-i 
Imperative  kim-en 
Passive 
Present       tin  (tan-in)  kim-s-il 


I  am  dying,  my  being  affected  by 

death 
I  shall  die 
I  am  going  to  die 
he  died 

he  has  just  died 
die 


Future         hen  (he-in)  kim-s-il-e,  or 

bin  kim-s-ak-en 
Past  kim-s-ah-b-i,  or  kim-s-ah-n-i 

Class  II.     Verbs  in  t-al,  "endowed 
Present        tin  (tan-in)  ku§-t-al 
Future        hen  (he-in)  ku§-t-al-e 

bin  ku§-tal-ak-en 
Past  ku§-t-al-ah-en  or  ku§-l-ah-en 

Imperative  ku§-t-en  or  ku§-t-al-en 

Class  IIIa.     Nominal  verbs 

Transitive 

Present        tin  (tan-in)  o'on-ik 

Future        hen  (he-in)  o'on-ik-e 

kin  (ki-in),  o'on-ik 

bin  in  o'on-e 
Past  tin  (t-in)  o'on-ah 

o'in  (o'ok-in)  o'on-ah 

in  o'on-m-ah 
Imperative  o'on-e 
Intransitive 

Present       tin  (tan-in)  o'on  (o'on-in-kah) 
Future        hen  (he-in)  o'on-e 

bin  o'on-ak-en 
Past  o'on-n-ah-en 

o'in  (o'ok-in)  o'on 

o'on-n-ah-ah-en 
Imperative  o'on-en 

Passive 

Present       tin  (tan-in)  o'on-ol 

Future        hen  (he-in)  o'on-ol-e 

Past  o'on-ah-b-en  or  o'on-ah-n-en 


I  am  being  killed,  my  being  affected 

by  someone  causing  my  death 
I  shall  be  killed 
I  am  going  to  be  killed, 
he  was  killed 

with." 

I  am  living 

I  shall  be  living 

I  am  going  to  live 

I  lived 

live 


I    am    shooting    something,    my 

gunning  something 
I  shall  shoot  something 
I  may  shoot  something 
I  am  going  to  shoot  something 
I  shot  something 
I  have  just  shot  something 
I  shot  something  a  long  time  ago 
shoot  it 

I  am  shooting  or  my  gunning 

I  shall  shoot 

I  am  going  to  shoot 

I  shot 

I  have  just  shot 

I  shot  a  long  time  ago 

shoot 

I  am  being  shot,  I  am  affected  by 

a  gun 
I  shall  be  shot 
I  was  shot,  I  was  gunned 


PARADIGMS 


285 


Class  IIIb.     Nominal  verbs  with  agent 

Transitive 

Present       tin  (tan-in)  o'ib-t-ik 


Future        hen  (he-in)  o'ib-t-ik-e 
kin  (ki-in)  o'ib-t-ik 
bin  in  o'ib-t-e 

Past  tin  (t-in)  o'ib-t-ah 

o'in  (o'ok-in)  o'ib-t-ah 
in  o'ib-t-m-ah 

Imperative  o'ib-t-e 

Intransitive 


I  am  writing  something,  my  writ- 
ing something 
I  shall  write  something 
I  may  write  something 
I  am  going  to  write  something 
I  wrote  something 
I  have  just  written  something 
I  wrote  something  a  long  time  ago 
write  it 


Present 

tin  (tan-in)  o'ib 

I  am  writing,  my  writing 

Future 

hen  (he-in)  o'ib-e 

I  shall  write 

bin  o'ib-n-ak-en 

I  am  going  to  write 

Past 

o'ib-n-ah-en 

I  wrote 

o'in  (o  ok-in)  o'ib 

I  have  just  written 

o'ib-n-ah-ah-n-en 

I  wrote  a  long  time  ago 

Imperative  o'ib-en 

write 

Passive 

Present 

tun  (tan-u)  o'ib-t-il  or  o'ib-t-al 

it  is  being  written 

Future 

hu  (he-u)  o'ib-t-il-e 

it  will  be  written 

Past 

o'ib-t-ah-b-i,  or  o'ib-t-ah-n-i 

it  was  written 

Class  IV.     Verb  "to  be" 

Present 

winik-en 

I  am  a  man 

Future 

hen  (he-in)  winik-tal-e,  or 

I  shall  be  a  man,  I  shall  become  a 

winik-tsal-e 

man 

bin  winik-tal-ak-en 

I  am  going  to  become  a  man 

Past 

winik-h-en 

I  was  a  man 

286 


APPENDIX  II 


ISJ 
S3 

o 

H 

Q 


■s  :«   as 

a 


MM 

a  a 


a- 
a  a 

.a 


c3       £ 

•*j  a  a  <a 

g  aJ  aj  w 

Wc3   03  o3 

a  a  a 


Q 
H 

Ph 

PL, 

<1 


S3 

Ah 
O 

Hi 

o 

Ph* 

o 
o 

«*? 

Ph- 
p 

Jz' 
> 

PQ 

CO 

H 

h! 
K 
PQ 


C 

f=H 
CO 

a 

G 
Ph 


a     &,* 

03 

a 


.*  -«n 


■a 


o 

A^M 

•5  a  °  a 

a-S-3-3^ 


5^- 

-5-*  a  a 

oj  <u  <u  a 

oj  o3  oS  .S 

a  a  a^ 


•5  a  o 

oJ  Co 

S  ^m 

p-j  a  a  * 

oj  a?  a)  a 


a  a 


.a 

a.o 


I— (   Ph 


8-J 

"I'SSJ 

HnPUP-ifan 


.* 


a  a 


-3  -5  a  «  a 

^  _  a  a  a  a 

o3  03  a>  a)  a  a) 

o3  o3   03  o3  .5  oj 

a  S  a  a.a  a 


03 

a  a 

<u  a 

03   03 

a.* 


o3  a 


a 

a 
o 


60S 


io  a 


2  > 


a  2 
8 -a 


a  03*03 

d  oi  id 
MMM 
o3   o3   o3 

a  &  a 


•W  a 


HH    Pnfe 


3     8   <u   00   CO 
o3     B  B   03  03 

Ph  PhPhPhPh 


PARADIGMS 


287 


£i 

6 

a 

£ 

^— s 

a 

*_ 

a 

« 

«o 

Xi 

- 

o 

"3 

CO    CO    CO 

| 

to 

co"3- 

<D    <D    <]j 

.Q 

O) 

w  -Q  d  _ 
*  «  §  * 

•5    CO    CO    CO 

c  a>  oy  <u 

X>  X*Xi 

BBB 

0 

eS  etf  c3 

M 

,JQ 

^  ^  ^ 

a 

a 

•B.1IS 

ISS 

•0) 

s 

W^j^j^ 

>co 

a 

-t^              <H 

o 

o 

5   1 

«0 

a 

pd 

■S|    2 

£ 

CO 

a. 

MM       ^3 

to  *S 

3 

i 

d  d.d.d 

11 
11 

■■1 

CO 

JO 

CO  CO  5  csj 
<0    CD    *JQ 

•2-3  «  s 
1  8-2  $ 

1 

rt    rj    W    W 

(1)   <u   g   g 

B 

lis 

55 

o 

.8.8.9.9 

Is 

w  w^  8 

o 

t-H 

C3 

«« 

E 

-  ■ 

1 

O 

3 

o 
>co 

o 

v:to 

o 
o 

H 
> 

M 

CO  ^ 
g    CO 

5  i 

CO 
0) 

a 

cd.* 

■9*2  * 

ed  *  o  *J3 

P 

.2.211 

CO    ^ 

cd  a>  S»5 

.Q  O  Cd  Cd 
^  ^    CO    CO 

E    2    <D    <U 

o 

ffl 

•*=  od 

cd  <d.a,a 

u 

fe 

6  S^^ 

a* 

**-*  B  B 

3 

CO 

.8.8.9.9 

cd  ed 

5  s 


-g       ,*       ,* 

Sinn 

a>    4)    CO    CO    H    CO 

o  ^a  a)  a>  S  a> 

IllNl 

d  d*^*^  d^ 


d*e-c^  p  s» 


aj  as  oj 

i  ft-s 


t,  d  2^;  d  d 


a? 
'43 


^3  ctf 


S    £2    W    "■ 

a  a  ® 

Hi 


d    0)   0) 

5  a  s 


co         a 

•J  g£  fe.>: 

.       03    CO  -U    CO 
2      CD    SO    CD    50 

Ph   Ph  Pli  Ph  Pk 


288 


APPENDIX  II 


d 

MM* 
o  o  n 


§ 

■9    1 

.*       o 

a   b 

m   -° 

O          o 

b   d   <0 

* 
3  «_ 

0     »    M 

11" 

o  «  <J*:d 

°  B  d 

ffl  o  o  o 

a*a 

O 


a 

—                    O 

•£        >«1        >«J 

>W         -(_.         .<_> 

I   -M 

.o. 

•^^'S-a  2-s 

« 

BB%%B% 

* 

3 

3* 

-a  « 

°  °  d  ° 

3  3  .a  a  is  a 

3  * 

a* 

■i 

-  I 

*5     52     *2 
ado 

BB%%&% 


3  "S 


d^s 

3*3 

M&M& 

do  id  n 


►J      O 

PQ  T3 


is 

>w      d  ^  o 

-K     .*  o* 

■*     3  £3 

*  J*J    TO    Bj    _j    rt 

o o33^3 

dflond° 


o       »       2 

Hills 


3d3 

f)«iO' 


££ 


5  2  2  a  a 


--.    soot— 1   c 

*43  •S  as 

HH     o   0,0. 


El      t-H      P 


PARADIGMS 


289 


c^- 

^ 

•^ 

^J 

Kfl 

SSI 

aT 

9  S  S 

«!   d    cS 

9  2 

ci  d 

§  a  s 

rt   o3   oS 

etf  a* 

JS*.* 

.SJSJS 

■»->-»-<    -4-> 

33  rt  d 

§  §  1  § 

•*  *  ^  d 

0)    O    Qi  .T 

■*->  •)->   -i->  O 


•do 

ll 

Jd  d 
**  o3 

■as 
a* 


3      ^ 

^  -HO) 

H3  ■*-> 


«  a  a  c  * 

~*  •*  o3  o3  ^ 

IIJJ-s 

d  d  »^  ^  d 

a 

•- <  o 

5      2  2 

33||i  I 

d  d  d  d  a  d 

dd^^f  * 

B 

—1  o 

>tfl  Hfl 


I 

0)    S3 
I- 

a  * 
d  +j 

3  03 


^^ 


s 

«H 

C<T 

. 

00 

6«» 

§ 

(S3 
CD 

1 

1 
>> 

^H      9 

& 

rrt     03 
•2* 

•  73 

5S 

■a 

i 

ah  kanan 
ah  kanan 
kananan  < 

at 

1 

d 

GO 

$ 

d 

03 

HH   -4-> 

-2-2  d 


d 
d  d 

d  d  03  03^ 

Q$      Cj      Q      Cd      md 

d  a-***  d 
££5.53 


S  &  &  $  I 

lift! 


1 


d  d 

03   o3 

d  d 

03  03 

MM 

■3 -a 


ill 

ill 


CD     « 

a  I 

t— 1   Ph 


.2    d  »-fl 

S3  egg 

Ph  PlhPhPh 


APPENDIX  III 


LIST  OF  NUMERAL  CLASSIFIERS1 

Ak.     For  canoes,  boats,  houses,  lots,  seats,  earthen  vessels,  churches,  altars, 

caves,  holes  or  pits,  troughs,  villages,  or  maize  fields. 
Ahau.    For  the  twenty-year  groups  of  the  Maya  calendar,  which  are  like  our 

indictions,  although  they  consist  of  a  larger  number  of  years  than  these. 

The  native  century  or  era  contained  13  ahaues,  or  260  years. 
Awat.    For  distances;  miles  or  quarters  of  leagues. 
Baq.    For  400;  because  just  as  we  count  by  thousands,  the  Indians  counted  by 

400,  sayinq  hunbaq,  kabaq,  etc. 
Bal.     For  ends  of  ropes,  of  thread,  etc. 

For  things  [z]. 
BalatS.    For  strokes,  of  measurements  made  by  rule,  line  or  compass. 
Balaq.    For  the  turns  given  to  cords  laid  in  circles,  or  to  similar  things  which 

are  twisted  or  twined.    (Compare  Koo\) 
Ban.    For  things  in  heaps.    The  same  as  banab,  which  also  serves  for  counting 

small  flocks  or  herds  of  animals. 
Em.     For  births. 
Kat.     For  quadrupeds  [z]. 
Kot.     For  quadrupeds. 

Koo.     For  lengths  of  threads,  cords,  rods  or  staffs;  for  "  pieces  "  of  time. 
Koo\    For  rolls  or  circular  twists,  "  a  roll  of  cord  "  (made  of  native  vines). 

Compare  Balaq. 
Kuk.     For  elbow  measurements. 
Kut§.     For  loads. 

Kul.     For  shrubs,  young  trees,  maize  plants,  and  balls  or  lumps  of  dough. 
Qan.     For  rope. 
Qas.     For  closets,  rooms,  etc. 
T§ats.     For  handfuls  of  herbs  or  hair. 
T§inab.     For  what  is  measured  by  gemes,  i.e.,  the  space  from  the  end  of  the 

thumb  to  the  end  of  the  forefinger  extended. 
TS'iik.     For  incised  wounds  made  by  arrows,  lances,  knives,  sticks,  etc.,  which 

are  thrown  and  remain  sticking  in  the  flesh. 
Ts'ot.     For  counts  of  skeins  of  thread. 
T§'ui.     For  bunches  of  fruit,  strings  of  beads,  necklaces,  braids,  bags,  and 

things  which  are  carried  hanging  from  the  hand. 
Hah.     For  splinters  [z]. 

1  This  list  was  originally  published  by  Beltran  (1746;  ed.  1859,  p.  203-208). 
An  English  translation  was  made  by  Nuttall  (1903,  p.  674-678).  Several  addi- 
tions have  been  made  from  Zavala  (indicated  by  Z)  and  from  the  author's  own 
investigations. 


LIST  OF  NUMERAL  CLASSIFIERS  291 

Hat.     For  mantles  or  "  pati  "  for  piernas  of  mantles  or  pati;  also  for  splinters 

of  wood. 
Hau.     For  gourd  vessels  split  into  halves,  pages  of  writing,  quarters  of  dead 

animals,  and  slices  of  fruit. 
Heb,  Hebal,  Hebel.    For  piernas  of  mantles  or  pati;  also  for  the  counting  of 

provinces. 
Hets.    For  hours  and  pages  of  books.    Also  used  in  counting  strings  of  bells. 
Heq.     For  branches  or  bunches. 
Lat\     For  dishes  of  food. 

Lat'abqin.     For  hours;  nun  lat'abqin  "  one  hour." 
Lem.     For  times;  nun  lem  "  once."    (Compare  Mai  and  Muk.) 
Lot.     For  counting  in  pairs,  such  as  kan  lot  "  four  pairs." 
Lub.     For  counting  leagues. 

Mai.     For  counting  numbers  of  times.    (Compare  Lem.) 
Muk.    For  the  same  count  of  times  and  for  duplications,  such  as  paying  "  twice 

as  much  "  "  three  times  as  much,"  etc. 
Muts'.    For  small  heaps  of  seeds,  stones,  earth,  or  for  crowds  of  animals,  birds, 

and  people. 
Mol.     For  things  that  are  united  or  congregated. 
Nab.     For  handbreadths  as  a  measure. 
Nak.     For  things  that  are  close  to  each  other,  such  as  jugs,  staffs,  or  seated 

men. 
Nakat.     For  recumbent  living  beings. 
Num.     For  times,  when  expressed  by  ordinal  numbers. 
Ok.     For  things  measured  by  handfuls. 

Paak.    For  mantles  or  paties  of  four  edges  (i.e.,  square  pieces  of  stuff). 
Paq.     For  blows,  times,  years. 
Pats.     For  birds  and  other  animals;    employed  from  number  9  to  19,  after 

which  the  expression  nun  tab,  "  twenty  "  is  used. 
Pai.     For  things  which  are  long  and  not  thin,  such  as  beehives,  canoes,  sea- 
boats,  wooden  beams,  bales  of  cloth,  and  skeins  of  thread. 
Pek.    For  circular  things,  such  as  consecrated  wafers,  maize-cakes,  and  others 

which  are  flat. 
Pet.     For  maize-fields  and  for  pastures. 
Peo'.     For  chapters  of  books  and  for  orations  and  songs. 
Pis.    For  years,  days,  months,  and  coin  currency  (a  real  or  peso  or  dollar). 
Pits'.    For  pieces  of  a  thing  cut  off  and  for  mouthfuls. 
Poq.     For  fish,  birds,  and  animals. 
Pul.    For  lashes  given  with  a  whip  or  blows  dealt  with  the  flat  side  of  the  blade 

of  a  sword. 
P'eel.     For  all  inanimate  things  in  general. 
P'ik.     For  a  written  chapter  or  articles  of  faith;   or  for  rows  of  stones,  each 

row  or  stone  being  above  the  other. 
P'is.    For  any  kind  of  measure  or  weight.    At  the  same  time  this  particle 

usually  expresses  a  fanega  or  measure  consisting  of  twelve  almudes. 
P'ots.     For  bunches  of  fruit. 
P'uuk.     For  plants  and  trees.    The  particle  sek  is  more  popularly  used. 


292  APPENDIX  III 

P'uk.     For  mouthfuls  of  food  or  swallows  of  liquid. 

Sap.     For  counts  of  arm's  lengths;  each  contains  two  yards. 

Sek.     For  trees  and  other  plants. 

Tas.    For  things  which  follow  each  other  in  order  or  in  line;  also  for  heavens. 

Te.    For  counts  of  years,  months,  days,  leagues,  cocoa,  eggs,  and  calabashes 

or  squashes. 
Ten,  Tenak.    For  numbers  of  times,  and  tenak  for  past  times.    Tenel  is  also 

used  for  times,  but  with  the  particle  bahun  or  bahuns  or  another. 
Tenel.    For  number  of  times  in  questions,    (z) 
Tuk.     For  heaps  of  things. 
Tul.     For  men,  women,  angels,  and  souls. 

T'il,  oool.    For  things  placed  in  order  or  file  and  for  the  subdivisions  of  a  house. 
T'ol.    For  lines,  furrows,  ditches,  or  trenches,  and  for  pages,  printed  columns, 

naves  of  churches,  etc. 
3111.    For  the  selvage  of  mantles  or  cloths  and  for  folds  of  paper  or  the  leaves 

of  books. 
Ouk.    For  towns,  paragraphs,  articles,  chapters,  notices,  heaps  or  piles,  divi- 
sions of  a  whole  in  various  parts. 
O'ak.    For  steps,  grades,  crowns,  or  things  which  are  placed  one  over  the  other, 

or  for  something  that  succeeds  another,  such  as  one  governor  after  another. 

It  is  then  an  ordinal  number. 
O'am.    For  consecrated  wafers,  pamphlets,  shoes,  and  of  all  things  which  are 

counted  in  pairs. 
O'ik.     For  persons,  this  particle  being  specially  dedicated  to  the  persons  of 

the  Holy  Trinity.    It  is  also  employed  for  counting  fingers  as  well  as  for 

the  husbands  or  wives  that  a  person  has  had. 
O'it.     For  candles;    cane  pipes;   long  fruits,  such  as  bananas;    also  alligator 

pears,  ears  of  corn,  the  mamey  fruit,  etc. 
Wal.     For  leaves  of  tobacco,  of  banana  trees,  etc. 
Wao\    For  counting  journeys  or  the  number  of  times  a  person  goes  and  comes 

in  performing  some  business. 
Wol.    For  balls  of  dough,  bundles  of  cotton  or  of  wool,  balls  of  thread  and  other 

round  things. 
Wuo\    For  folded  cloths  and  similar  things. 
Yal.     For  sheaths  or  things  that  are  brought  together. 


APPENDIX    IV 


COMPARATIVE  VOCABULARIES 

Introduction 

The  following  vocabulary  is  made  up,  first  of  all,  of  a  collection 
of  Maya  words  gathered  in  1893  from  various  towns  in  Yucatan. 
The  document,  which  is  a  typewritten  copy  of  the  original  lists 
of  words,  was  purchased  from  Paul  Wilkinson  in  the  sale  of  his 
library  by  Mr.  Charles  P.  Bowditch  and  presented  by  him  to  the 
Peabody  Museum.  This  manuscript  has  an  introduction  on  Maya 
pronunciation  by  Crescendo  Carrillo  y  Ancona.  It  is  probable 
that  the  collection  of  words  was  made  for  a  contemplated  work 
by  him  on  the  Maya  language. 

The  vocabulary  from  Peto  was  made  by  Presbftero  D.  Manuel 
A.  Valez,  that  from  Valladolid  by  Licenciado  L.  Manzano,  that 
from  Tizimin  by  Francisco  Rejon  Espinola,  and  that  from  Sotuta 
is  unsigned.  These  towns  are  widely  separated.  Valladolid  is  the 
most  eastern  town  in  the  settled  portion  of  the  peninsula,  Tizimin 
is  almost  directly  north  of  Valladolid,  about  half  way  to  the  coast, 
Peto  is  in  the  south-central  part  of  Yucatan,  and  Sotuta  is  north 
of  Peto  about  a  third  of  the  way  to  the  northern  coast.1 

A  careful  study  of  these  words  together  with  grammatical  forms 
collected  in  the  same  areas  would  probably  show  slight  dialectical 
differences  in  the  language.2 

In  order  that  a  comparison  may  be  made  between  these  modern 
vocabularies  and  those  of  early  date,  corresponding  terms  are 
given,  wherever  possible,  from  the  Motul,  the  San  Francisco,  and 
the  Ticul  dictionaries.  These  early  works  probably  date  from  the 
end  of  the  xvi  to  the  end  of  the  xvn  century. 

There  are  comparatively  few  cases  where  words  of  the  three 
early  authorities  differ  entirely  from  those  of  the  four  modern 

1  It  is  well  to  point  out  that  there  is  a  Book  of  Chilam  Balam  from  Tizimin 
and  a  collection  of  documents  in  Maya  from  Sotuta  as  well  as  a  Libro  del 
Judio  from  the  same  locality. 

2  See  note  by  Palma  y  Palma,  Part  I,  p.  14. 

293 


294  APPENDIX  IV 

lists.  It  is  much  more  common  to  find  the  earlier  terms  for  the 
same  word  differ  among  themselves  and  the  later  words  agreeing 
some  with  one  and  some  with  others  of  the  older  lists.  Of  the  later 
vocabularies,  the  words  in  the  Peto,  Tizimin,  and  Valladolid  lists 
are  much  more  frequently  in  agreement  than  the  corresponding 
words  from  the  Sotuta  collection. 

In  words  where  there  is  a  possibility  for  single  or  double  vowels, 
the  Peto  collector  is  more  inclined  to  use  the  double  vowels  than 
any  of  the  others.  In  the  Sotuta  and  Ticul  vocabularies,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  single  vowel  occurs  most  frequently.  The  Peto  list, 
for  example,  uses  eight  single  to  seventeen  double  vowels  while 
the  Sotuta  uses  fifteen  single  to  six  double  vowels  and  the  Ticul 
eleven  single  to  three  double  vowels.1 

In  the  Valladolid  and  the  Tizimin  lists  the  use  of  n  in  place  of  m 
is  common.  There  is  also  often  a  different  usage  in  the  earlier 
vocabularies  in  this  respect,  the  Motul  and  the  Valladolid  using 
sinbal,  and  all  the  others  have  the  more  common  form,  simbal. 
In  the  later  lists,  the  Peto,  the  Sotuta,  and  the  Valladolid  use 
hun,  the  Tizimin  alone  using  hum. 

The  use  of  the  fortis  forms  differs  greatly.  In  the  Peto  and 
Sotuta  vocabularies  one  finds  oa,  or  oah,  to  give ;  in  all  the  others 
the  form  is  o'a  or  o'ah. 

The  differences  in  many  of  the  verbal  forms  are  due  to  the  fact 
that  in  some  cases  the  verb  is  understood  in  a  transitive  sense  and 
in  others  as  an  intransitive. 

Disregarding  the  failure  to  recognize  the  proper  form  of  the 
verb,  the  use  of  the  semi-vowels,  w  and  y,  before  vowel  stems, 
and  the  use  of  the  masculine  and  feminine  prefixes,  there  is  a  sur- 
prising agreement  between  the  earlier  and  later  vocabularies.  It 
is  only  fair  to  point  out,  however,  that  the  words  given  in  the 
lists  are  common  every-day  terms  and  one  would  not  expect  to 
find  many  changes  in  these.  Words  for  spring,  summer,  autumn, 
and  winter  are  given  in  the  later  vocabularies  except  the  Tizimin, 
the  author  of  which  notes,  quite  properly,  that  there  are  no  words 
in  Maya  exactly  corresponding  to  these  terms.  The  words  for 
ice  and  snow  are  naturally  not  found  in  the  earlier  lists. 

1  Note  the  discussion  of  the  use  of  the  double  vowel  in  Part  I,  p.  30. 


COMPARATIVE  VOCABULARIES 


295 


abdomen, 
afternoon, 

all, 

arch  (arco), 

arm, 

armadillo, 

arrow, 

autumn, 

axe, 

bad, 

bark  (ladrar), 

bark  (corteza), 

bat, 

bear  (oso), 

beard, 

bird, 

black, 

blood, 

blue, 


Vocabularies  1 

naq,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  m.     homtan-il,  s.     qo,  m. 

o-qin,  m,  f,   t,     o-qin-al,  z.     o-qn-al,  z.     o-qin-il,  z. 

okan-qin,  p,  v.     sis-qin,  s. 
lah  — ,  z.     tulakal,  all.     tu-sin-il,  m,  f. 
pun,  s.     p'un,  z.     p'um,  p  :  m,  t.     uo*-bil-t§e,  v. 
qab,  s,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    noh-qab,  p.    o'ik-qab,  p.    o'it-qab,  v. 
wet§,  p,  z.     h-wet§,  s,  v.     ibat§,  t. 
hul,  s,  v,  z.     hul-eb,  p.     hal-al,  t. 
its-ha-ha-lil,  p.     qini-yas-le,  v.     no  word,  z. 
baat,  all. 

lob,  s,  v  :  m,  f,  t.     qas,  p,  s,  z.     ma  patan,  m. 
tsi-bal,  p,  z.    ha-hai-tsi-bal,  s.    awat-tii-bal,  v.    yawat- 

peq,  m,  f.     u  qeyah-peq,  m.  f. 
sool,  z.    sol-tse,  s.    sool-tse,  p.    pats,  v.    bos,  f,  t.    bos- 

el-tse,  f. 
so3*,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  t. 

san-hool,  p.     saan-hool,  z.     sam-hol,  t.     kab-noh,  m,  f. 
nots,  s.    noot§,  p,  v,  z.    mes,  m.    mees,  f,  t.    keb,  m. 
ts'itg',  s  :  m,  f,  t.    tsiits,  v.    ts'iits,  p.    ts'iits',  z. 


bo§,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  f,  t.    eq,  z  :  f.    eeq,  p  :  f. 
qiq,  s  :  m,  f,  t.    qiiq,  p,  v,  z. 

yas,  z.    ya-ya§,  t.    yas-kab,  m,  f.    yas-kaben,  f.    yas- 
top'en,  f.     yas-sak-nohen,  v.     yas-il-kaan,  z.     sak- 
yaas,  p. 
boar  (jabali),  kitam,  s,  z.    qas-i-qeqen,  p,  v.    qas-il-qeqem,  s. 

body,  winkil,  p.    winklil,  s,  z.    h-wiklil,  v.    kukut,  m,  f,  t. 

bone,  bak,  all. 

boy,  pal,  z.    paal,  m.    si-pal,  p,  s,  v,  z.    sibi-pal,  z. 

breast,  oem,  p,  s,  v,  z.    tan,  m,  f. 

breasts  of  woman,      im,  p,  s,  z.    yim,  v. 

brother,  elder,  sukun,  s  :  m,  t.    sukuun,  p,  z  :  f.    nohots  sukun,  v. 

brother,  younger,        io'in,  s  :  m,  f ,  t.    wioin,  p.    wio'in,  p,  z.    h-wio'in,  v. 
buzzard,  ts'om,  p,  s,  v,  z. 

canoe,  tsem,  p,  s,  v,  z.    ts'em,  p. 

chatter  (charlar),         oik-bal,  p.    ban-kab-klu-bal,  s.    ts'o-ts'op-tsi,  v.    sakats- 

t'an,  z.    t'an-t'an-ah,  z. 
chief,  holil,  p.     noh-tsil,  p.     halats  winik,  s,  z.     yun-3il,  v. 

H-meq-tan,  z.    kuts-kab,  z.    meq-tan-kah,  z. 
child,  tsam-pal,  p,  v.     tsan-tsan-pal,  m,  f,  t.     tsan-si-pal,  s. 

tsan-ts'u-pal,  s.    mehen-pal,  m,  f. 

1  The  letters  following  the  Maya  words  refer  to  the  various  vocabularies 
where  the  terms  occur:  p,  Peto;  s,  Sotuta;  v,  Valladolid;  z,  Tizimin;  m, 
Motul;  s,  San  Francisco;  and  t,  Ticul.  A  colon  separates  the  older  from  the 
later  authorities. 


296 


APPENDIX  IV 


chile,  ik,  p,  z  :  t.    iq,  s,  v. 

cigarette,  t§amal,  z.    ts'uts'-lem,  f.    tsut§-lem,  t. 

cold,  sis,  s  :  t.    siis,  p,  z.    keel,  p,  v  :  m,  f.    keel-en,  t. 

come,  tal,  z  :  m,  f .    tal-el,  p,  s  :  m,  f,  t.    u-tal,  v. 

corn,  Isim,  s  :  m,  f,  t.    §iim,  p,  v,  z.    i§iim,  p,  z. 

coyote,  u-peqil-qaa§,  p.    h-wayu,  v. 

cradle  (cuna),  tas-tse-qan,  p.    qu-pal,  s.    kuts-il  u  o'a-bal  pal-al  tan  tu 

sihil,  v.    qu-tsam-pal,  z. 
crow  (cuervo),  tsom,  s.    t§'om,  v,  z.    t§im-toq,  p. 

crow  (cacarear),  qo-qoan-kil,  z.    qo-qoan-kil  u-lum,  t.    tokan-kil  u  kal  u 

lun,  m.    to-tokan-kil  u  kal  u  lum,  f.    to-tok-t'ere,  p, 
s.     t§a-tsak  t'oloan-kil,  z.     awat  u  lun,  m.     awat  u 
lum,  f. 
awat,  all.    ta-tah-awat,  m. 
oqot,  all. 
daughter,  by  father,   §-mehen,  z.    i§-mehen,  m,  f,  t.    wis-mehen,  p,  z.     §- 

ts'upu-is-mehen,  s.    ts'up-lal,  v. 
daughter,  by  mother,  al,  m,  f.    wal,  z.    tsu-pal,  t.    t§up-lal,  m.    ts'u-pal,  p. 
ts'up-lal,  f.    §-tsup-wal,  s,  z.    t§upu-al,  v. 
qin,  all.    sasil-qin,  s.    sasil,  t. 
kimen,  all. 

keh,  v,  z  :  f,  t.    keeh,  p.    sibil-keh,  s. 
peq,  all. 
uq-ul,  all. 

ts'ah,  v,  z.    t§'ah-al,  p.    t§'ah-al-haa,  m.    tsah-al-haa,  f, 
t'ah-al,    t.      t'ah-al-haa,    m,    f.      t'unul-haa,    m,    f. 
t§'ab-il,  s. 
kuo-a,  f.    kuo-ha,  p,  z  :  t.    kuo-haa,  s.    patus-ha,  p. 
§ikin,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    lee  ilikin,  s. 
lum,  s  :  m.    luum,  p,  v,  z  :  f,  t.    kab,  z. 
han-al,  all.    oentah-ba,  z. 
kan-il-ha,  p. 

he,  p,  v,  z  :  f,  t.    hee,  s.    eel,  s,  z. 
it§,  s,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    wit§,  v.    tuq-nel-it§,  p. 


cry  out  (gritar), 
dance, 


day, 

dead, 

deer, 

dog, 

drink, 

drop  (gotear), 


duck, 

ear, 

earth  (tierra), 

eat, 

eel, 

egg, 

eye, 

face, 

far, 

father, 

feather, 

finger, 

finger-nail, 

fire, 

fish  (pez), 

fish  (bobo), 

fish  (bagre), 

fly, 

foot, 


it§,  p,  s,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    wits,  v.    tan-it§,  p. 

nat§,  s,  z  :  f.    naats,  p,  v,  z.    nat§-il,  z. 

yum,  s,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    Hum,  p.    yum-bil,  t.    tata,  v.    tat,  z. 

qu-qum,  all. 

al-qab,  z.    yal-qab,  p,  s,  z.    ts'il-bi-qab,  v.    moti,  z :  m. 

mot§-qab,  m.    mots'-qab,  f,  t. 
its'ak,  p,  s,  v,  z. 
qaq,  s,  z  :  m,  f.    qaaq,  p,  v. 
kai,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  m,  t.    oaqin,  f.    yio,  f.    t§'a,  f. 
sohol-kai,  v. 

lu,  p,  v,  z.    lun,  s.  bos-kai,  p. 
yas-kat§,  s,  v,  z  :  m,  f.    yaa§-kat§,  p. 
ok,  all. 


COMPARATIVE  VOCABULARIES 


297 


forehead, 

forest, 

forget, 

friend, 


frijol, 

fox  (zorra), 

girl, 

give, 

go, 

god, 

gold, 

good, 

goodness, 

goose  (ganso), 

gourd, 

grave, 

green, 

groan  (bramar), 

hair, 

hand, 

he, 

head, 

heart, 

herb, 

here, 

hill, 

horse, 

house, 

house  of  palm, 

husband, 

I, 

ice, 

indian, 

island, 

kettle, 

kill, 
knife, 
lake, 
large, 


lek,  s,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    lek-tii,  z.    t§i-lek,  p,  v. 

qas,  m.    qaas,  p,  s,  v,  z.    pok-tS'e,  m.    t§'en-t§e,  m. 

tub-ul,  s  :  m,  t.    tub-olal,  z.    tub-sa,  v.    tub-sah,  p  :  f. 

tub-esah,  m. 
etool,  p.    etail,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    yukunah  winik,  s.    yukuna 

h-winik,  v.    nup-t'an,  m,  f.     nun-pel  u  lak,  f.    hun- 

p'el  u  lak,  m. 
buul,  all. 

ots,  p,  s,  v.    tsomac,  z.    tsamak,  m.    tS'amak,  f. 
s-ts'u-pal,  s,  v,  z.     §-t§'upu-pal,  z.     t§'up-lal-paal,  f. 

tsup-lal-paal,  m. 
oa,  p.     oah,  s.    o'a,  m,  f,  t.    o'ah,  p,  z.    u-o'a-bal,  v. 

hah,  s. 
bin,  p,  v.    bin-el,'  p,  s,  z  :  t.    ben,  m,  f .    ben-el,  m,  f ,  t. 
qu,  all.    kits-kelem-yum,  s. 
qan-maskab,  p.    qan-qan-taqin,  m,  f,  t. 
uo,  all.    mal-ob,  p,  s,  z.    tibil,  m,  f,  t. 
uo-il,  p,  z  :  m,  f .    yuo-il-in-puqsiqal,  v.    tibil  uo-il,  f . 
yak-bok,  p. 

qum,  s,  z.    quum,  p,  v  :  m,  f. 
muk-nal,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  t.    muk-sah,  f.    muk-kimen,  f. 
yas,  s.    yaas,  p.  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    ya-ya§,  m,  f.    yaa§il-kaa§, 

z.     ("  se  confunden  el  verde  y  el  azul  "  z). 
akan,  all. 

oooo,  all.    ooo-el,  z. 
qab,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    tan-qab,  s. 
le,  p,  z.    leti,  p,  s,  v,  z. 
pol,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  m,  t.    hool,  p,  z  :  m,  f,  t. 
pusiiq,  z.    puksiqal,  all. 
siu,  all. 

wai,  z  :  m.    waye,  p,  v,  z  :  t.    tela,  s,  z. 
puuk,  p,  z  :  f,  t.    wio,  s.    mul,  z.    muul,  v.    noh-muul, 

v.    qaa§,  p. 
oimin,  all. 

na,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    nan,  s.    otots,  z  :  m,  f. 
iani-na,  v.    §anil-na,  p,  s,  z.    pasel,  z.    yukil-na,  z. 
itsam,  m,  f.    h-witsam,  v.    witsam,  p,  s,  z. 
ten,  p,  s,  v,  z. 

yeeb,  p.    noh-tat-yeeb,  p.    bat,  s,  v,  z. 
masewal,  p,  v,  z.    H-maya-bil,  z. 
peten,  z.    petem,  s.    oukub-luum,  p.    hay  luum  it§  ha,  v. 
maskab-kum,  p,  z  :  f .     kum  maskab,  t.     u-kut§il,  v. 

lokansa-ha,  v. 
kim-sah,  p,  s,  z  :  m,  f.    kin-sah,  v. 
qupeb,  p.    soteb,  p,  s,  z.    t§an-qab-maskab,  v. 
soo-ha,  v.    o'ao',  z.    aqal,  p,  z.    t§i-t§an-qanaab,  p. 
noh,  m,  f,  t.    nohots,  p,  Sj  v,  z  :  t. 


298 


APPENDIX  IV 


laugh, 
laziness, 

leaf, 

leg, 

lie  (mentir), 

lightning, 

living, 
lizard, 


love  (amar), 
love  (amor), 
man, 

many, 

meat, 

memory, 

moon, 

morning, 

mosquito, 

mother, 

mouse, 

mouth, 

name, 

near, 

neck, 

night, 

no, 

nose, 

ocean, 

old, 

people, 

pigeon, 

pine, 

pipe, 

plain  (llano), 

priest, 

puma, 

rabbit, 
rain  dluvia), 


t§eh,  v.    tseeh,  p.  z  :  f,  t.    muqluk  u  tseeh,  m.    tsek,  s. 
ma-qol,  m.     ma-qobal,  s.     ma-qolal,  v,  z  :  f ,  t.     ma- 

qolil,  p. 
le,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f.    u-leh  tse,  t.    leh  t§e,  s. 
ok,  s  :  f.    muq-ok,  p.    p'ul-ok,  v,  z.    oelek,  z. 
tus,  all. 
lemba,  t.    lemba-kaan,  m,  f.    lemba-tsak,  p,  s.    lemba- 

tsaak,  z. 
ku-san,  s,  z.    ku-saan,  p,  v. 
tolok,  p,  z.    ii-mets,  m.    is-me-mets,  s,  z  :  f.    merets, 

v.    iil-be-betil,  s.    s-selut§,  s.    pikuneil,  z.    silwoh,  z. 

is-tulub,  s,  z. 
yakuna,  v.    yakunah,  p,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    yakunah-il,  s. 
yukuna,  v,  z.    yakunah,  p,  s  :  m,  f,  t. 
winik,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    bal-kab  winik,  m.    §ib,  v,  s.    H-sib, 

p,  z. 
yab,  s.    yaab,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f. 
baq,  all. 

qah-sa,  v.    qah-sah,  p,  z  :  f.    qah-lai,  s,  z  :  m. 
u,  all. 

samal,  p,  z  :  m,  f.    hao-kab,  v,  z.    hao-kab-qin,  s. 
qas-ol,  m.    qo§-ol,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  f. 
na,  p,  z,    naa,  m,  t.    nah,  s.    na-il,  z.    mama,  v. 
ts'o,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    ts'oo,  s. 
t§i,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f.    tsn,  s  :  t. 
qaba,  all. 

na3-ti,  p.    nao'-ti,  s,  v,  z.    naq-lik,  z. 
kal,  all. 
aqab,  all. 

ma,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  m.    maa,  f.    matan,  m,  f. 
ni,  p,  v,  z  :  m.    nii,  s  :  f,  t. 
qab-nab,  s,  v.    qa-naab,  p.  qaq-nab,  m.    qaq-nab-e,  m. 

qaq-naab,  z. 
noh-sib,  f,  t.    nu-sib,  p,  s,  v,  z.    lab,  z.    utsben,  z. 
maak,  p,  z.    winik,  s,  v. 
ukum,  s,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    kastran-ukum,  p.    kastlan-ukum,  z. 

sak-pakal,  z.    ku-kut-kib,  z.    ououi,  z. 
hu-hub,  p. 
hobon-t§e,  v. 

tas-kab,  p,  z.    ta-tas-luum,  s.    uoi-luum,  v. 
ah-qin,  m,  f.    H-qin,  p,  s,  z.    yun-qin,  v.    yun-h-qin,  z. 

pisnal-yum-Dil,  s.    ah-meqtan-pisan,  z.    iq-kab,  z. 
koh,  v  :  m,  f.     tiak-koh,  p.     qan-koh,  z.     balam,  t. 

t§ak-bolai,  m. 
t'ul,  s,  v  :  m,  f,  t.    t'uul,  p,  z. 

ha,  p.    kasal-ha,  s,  z.    kasal-haa,  m.    ha-hal,  v.    haa- 
haal,  m.    tsaak,  p,  z. 


COMPARATIVE  VOCABULARIES 


299 


rain  (lloviznar), 

rain  water, 

rattle-snake, 
reason, 

red, 
river, 

rob, 

run, 

salt, 

sandal  (guarache) 

scorpion, 

see, 

silver, 

sing, 

sister,  elder, 

sister,  younger, 

sit, 

sky, 

sleep, 

small, 

soldier, 


snake, 

snow, 

son,  by  mother, 

son,  by  father, 

speak, 

spring, 

squirrel, 

stand  (pararse), 

star, 

stone, 

strong, 

summer, 

sun, 
tejon, 
temple, 
that, 


tos-ha,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  t.    tos-haa,  f,  m.    to-tos-ha,  p.    tosol- 

ha,  z.    oabal-ha,  f.    oabal-haa,  m. 
t§ulub,  z.     t§ulub-ha,  z  :  t.     t§akil-haa,  m.     tsakiqal- 

haa,  f.    kanil-haa,  m.    kaanil-haa,  f. 
oab-kan,  p,  s,  v,  z.    ahau-kan,  z. 
naat,  m,  f.    toh-t'an,  p,  s.    kusolal,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    u  nuk- 

t'an,  v. 
t§ak,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f.    tsa-t§ak,  p,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    tSu-t§ak,  s. 
bekan,  z.     bekan-ha,  p.     hai-ha,  v.    yats-ha,  z.    yok- 

ha,  f,  t.    yok-haa,  m. 
okol,  p,  s,  v,  z.    koo,  m,  f,  t.    paa-koo,  m,  f. 
alkab,  all. 
taab,  all. 

sanab,  p,  z.    §anab-kewel,  p,  s,  v,  z. 
sinan,  s.    sinaan,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f. 
ilah,  s,  z.    ilmah,  (permitir)  m,  f,  t.    pakat,  p,  v. 
sak-maskab,  p.    sak-taqin,  m,  f,  t. 
qai,  all. 

kik,  p,  s,  z  :  f,  t.    kiik,  m.    nohots  kik,  v. 
io'in,  m,  f,  t.    wio'in,  p,  z.     tsup-io'in,  s.     tsupu-io'in,  v. 
kutal,  p,  s,  v,  z.    sekba,  z. 
kaan,  all. 
wen-el,  all. 
tsi-tsan,  p,  s,  v,  z.    tsan-tsan,  m,  t.    ma-tsan-t§an,  m,  f. 

manob,  m.    mehen,  m,  f.    o'eo',  t. 
qatun,  m,  f,  t.    H-qatun,  z.    qaatun,  v.    qatun-maak,  s. 

bateel,  p.     batel-naal,  p.     H-batel,  z.     boteel,  m. 

H-p'isba,  z.    holkan,  f. 
kan,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    qanal-kan,  s.    quqi-kan,  p,  v.    quqil- 

kan,  s. 
yeeb,  p,  s,  v. 

al,  m,  f,  t.    wal,  p,  z.    sibi-al,  s,  v.    sibi-bal,  z. 
mehen,  p,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    laq-pal,  v,  z.    §ibi-is-mehen,  s. 
fan,  s,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    tetan,  p. 

yas-qin,  m.  iti-yas-qin,  p.  yas-tsun-hab,  v.  no  word,  z. 
kuuk,  p,  s,  v,  z. 
watal,  all. 
eq,  all. 

tun,  p.    tunit§,  all.    buq-tun,  z. 

t'a,  s.    t§it§,  p,  v,  z.    qaam,  z.    um-qan,  v.    mu-qaan,  z. 
yas-qin,  p.    qin-un-yabil,  t.    qin  tun  yaabil,  m,  f.    qini- 

qil-kab,  v.    lub-tsak,  p.    no  word,  z. 
qin,  all. 

tsab,  p.    sib,  s.    emuti,  v. 
quna,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f .    qunah,  s.    yotot§  qu,  m,  f. 
le  —  e,  z.    lai,  s.    lailo,  z.    le  letieele,  p.    leti-wale,  v. 

helo,  m. 


300 

there, 

they, 

this, 

thought, 

thumb, 

thunder, 

thunder-clap, 

tiger  (tigre) 

time, 
toad, 
tobacco, 
to-day, 

toe, 

to-morrow, 

tongue, 

tooth, 

tree, 

true, 
turkey, 
turtle, 
valley, 

village, 

walk, 

warble  (gorjear), 

warm, 

water, 

we, 

who, 

white, 

wife, 

will  (voluntad), 

wind, 

wing, 

winter, 

wolf  (lobo), 

woman, 

wood, 


APPENDIX  IV 

te,  f .  telo,  v,  z.  tel-lo,  t.  tlo,  z.  tolo,  p,  s,  z.  lelo,  p. 

—  o,  z. 
leti-ob,  v,  z.  le-ob-ti,  p,  s,  z.  te-ob-ti-ob,  p. 
le,  z.  lela,  z.  le  —  a,  z.  letiela,  p,  s,  v. 
tukul,  all. 

na-qab,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    naa-qab,  s. 
kil-ba,  v.    kil-bal,  p.    amba,  z.    ambah,  s. 
tsaak,  z.     amba-tsak,  s.    hum-tsaak,  p,  z.    u  pek-tsak, 

t.    yakan-t§ak,  v. 
balam,  s  :  m.     balam-tsak-eqel,  z.     tsak-mool,  p,  v,  z. 

tsak-eqel,  s,  z. 
qin,  z  :  t.    qin-il,  p,  s,  z.    u-qin-il,  v  :  m,  f. 
muts,  all.    uo,  p,  s. 
quo,  s,  v,  z  :  f.    quuo,  p. 
hele,  f.    be-hele,  z.    be-hela,  z.    be-helae,  z.    be-helak, 

v.    ba-hele,  p,  s. 
al-ok,  z.    yal-ok,  p,  s.    t§il-bi-ok,  v.    sau,  m. 
samal,  p,  s,  v,  z.    hao-kab,  v  :  m,  f. 
aq,  p,  s,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    hu-aq,  v. 
ko,  all. 
kul,  z.    kulul-t§e,  p.    watal-t§e,  s.    wiklil  un  p'el  t§e,  v. 

ts'e,  m.    t§e,  t.    t§e-el,  f. 
ha,  s.    hah,  v,  z  :  m,  f,  t.    ha-hil,  p,  z.    ha-hi-lil,  p. 
oo,  p,  z.    ooo,  s.    oun,  s.    ulum,  v,  z.    tu§,  z. 
ak,  m,  f,  t.    aak,  p,  s,  v,  z. 
qop,  m,  f,  t.     qoop,  z.     qom,  m,  f,  t.    t§a-qan,  p.    tao- 

luum,  v.    hem-lum,  t. 
kah,  all.    noh-kah,  s.    tan-kah,  p.    t§an-kah,  s.    kah- 

talil,  p.    noh-kab,  p.    ka-kab,  z. 
simbal,  p,  s,  z  :  f,  t.    sinbal,  v  :  m. 
qai,  z  :  m.    qo-qo-qai,  p.    hum,  m,  awat,  m. 
tioko,  p,  s,  z.    tsokoh,  v.    tsakau,  m,  f. 
ha,  p,  v,  z  :  t.    haa,  s  :  m,  f. 
toon,  p,  s,  v,  z. 
mak,  m,  f.    maki,  t.    ma§,  s,  z.    maa§,  p,  v.    he-mas,  z. 

heken-maas,  z.  f 

sak,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  f,  t.    sasak,  p,  z  :  f,  t. 
watan,  p,  s,  z.    h-waten,  v. 
olah,  p,  s,  z.    u  sihil  tin  puqsiqal,  v. 
iq,  all. 
siq,  all. 
its-kelil,  p.    qini-keel,  v.    aq-yebil  (tiempo  de  aguas),  m, 

f,  t.    no  word,  z. 
kab-koh,  p,  s. 

§-t§'up,  p,  s,  v,  z.    tsup-lal,  f.    t§'up-lal,  m. 
t§e,  all. 


COMPARATIVE  VOCABULARIES 


301 


work,  meya,  v.    meyah,  p,  z.    menyah,  s  :  m,  f,  t. 

world,  yoqol-kab,  z  :  m,  f,*t.     baal-kah,  f.     bal-kal,  t.     baal- 

kal,  m. 

yellow,  qan,  p,  v,  z  :  m,  f ,  t.  •  qan-qan,  p,  z  :  m.    qun-qan,  s. 

yes,  bei,  p,  v.    bai,  p.    la,  s,  z. 

yesterday,  holhe,  p,  s,  v,  z  :  f,  t.    holohe,  p. 

you  (plural),  tees,  p,  s,  z.    toon,  v.    mulanil,  v. 

you,  tet§,  p,  s,  v,  z. 

young,  tan-kelem,  p,  s,  v,  z. 


Numeration  1 

Peto 

Sotuta 

Tizimin 

Valladolid 

1.  nun 

hun 

hum 

un 

2.  ka 

ka 

ka 

ka 

3.  o§ 

OS 

ofi 

OS 

4.  kam 

kan 

kan 

kan 

5.  ho 

ho 

ho 

hok 

6.  wak 

wak 

wak 

wak 

7.  u§uk 

wuk 

wuk 

huk 

8.  wa§ak 

wasak 

wasak 

wa§ak 

9.  bolom 

bolon 

bolon 

bolon 

10.  la-hun 

la-hun 

la-hun 

la-hun 

11.  buluk-hun 

buluk 

buluk 

buluk 
un  la-hun 

12.  lah-ka 

lah-ka 

lah-ka 

ka-la-hun 

20.  hun-qaal 

hun-qal 

hun-qal 

un-qal 

30.  la-hun-ka-qaal 

la-hu-ka-qal 

la-hun-ka- 

■qal 

os-qal 3 

40.  ka-qaal 

ka-qal 

ka-qaal 

kan-la-hun 

50.  la-hun-yo§  qaal 

la-hu-yos-qal 

la-hu-yo§-qaal 

la-hun-yo§-qal 

60.  os-qaal 

os-qal 

os-qal 

un-la-hun-yoi-qal 

70.  la-hun-kan-qaal 

la-hu-kan-qal 

la-hun-kan-qaal 

ka-la-hun-yos-qal 

80.  kan-qaal 

kan-qal 

kan-qaal 

kan-qal 

90.  la-hun-ho-qaal 

la-hu-yo-qal 

la-hun-ho- 

■qaal 

un-kan-la-hun-qal 

100.  ho-qaal 

ho-qal 

ho-qal 

ho-qal 

1000.  pik 

hum-pik 

la-hun-os-baaq 

un-pik 

hum-pik 2 

1  The  numbers  given  here  may  be  compared  with  those  of  Beltran  on 
p.  99-100. 

2  The  author  of  the  Tizimin  list  states  tjiat  anciently  pik  means  8000.  See 
the  statement  regarding  the  present  use  of  the  term  pik  in  Part  I,  p.  103. 

3  Many  of  the  terms  from  this  point  onward  are  obviously  incorrect. 


PRINTED  AT 

THE  HARVARD  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 

CAMBRIDGE,  MASS.,  U.S.A. 


PUBLICATIONS 

OF  THE 

PEABODY  MUSEUM  OF  HARVARD  UNIVERSITY 

The  publications  of  the  Peabody  Museum  consist  of  Annual 
Reports  (1868-1890)  bound  in  four  octavo  volumes  which 
include,  in  addition  to  the  yearly  report  of  the  Curator, 
numerous  papers  on  American  archaeology  and  ethnology. 
The  25th  (1891)  and  following  brief  reports  on  the  Museum 
are  printed  in  the  Annual  Reports  of  the  President  of  Har- 
vard University.  Some  of  the  scientific  articles  subsequent 
to  1887  are  issued  in  a  series  of  Papers  of  which  seven  com- 
plete volumes  have  been  published. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  five  complete  quarto  volumes  of 
Memoirs  have  been  published  dealing  with  the  native  civili- 
zations of  Mexico  and  Central  America. 

The  Museum  also  issues  from  time  to  time  Special  Publi- 
cations upon  various  anthropological  subjects. 

For  a  list  of  the  above  with  prices,  address 

Peabody  Museum, 

Cambridge,  Mass.,  U.S.A. 


RETURN      ANTHROPOLOGY  LIBRARY 

TO^  230  Kroeber  Hall  642-2400 


LOAN  PERIOD  1 
SEMESTER 

2 

3 

4 

5                               ( 

b 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 

DEC  1 6  19H  6 

.IAN  1  8  «9S 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
FORM  NO.  DD2,  3m,  3/84  BERKELEY,  CA  94720 


1969 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CDDb11fltl2 


ROOM  USE  ONLY 


RO0AMJSHWLY 


ROGfHJS^ONLY 


