I 


iVI 


GUGGENHEIM         MUSEUM 


©  1996  The  Solomon  R. 
Guggenheim  Foundation,  New  York, 
and  ZKM/Center  for  Art  and  Media 
Karlsruhe.  All  rights  reserved 

ISBN  0-89207-172-9 

Guggenheim  Museum  Publications 
1071  Fifth  Avenue 
New  York,  NY  10128 


Guggenheim  Museum  S0H0 
June  14-September  15,  1996 

Mediascape  is  organized  by  the  Solomon  R.  Guggenheim  Museum,  in 
association  with  ZKM/Center  for  Art  and  Media  Karlsruhe. 

This  exhibition  is  sponsored  by  Deutsche  Telekom. 

Additional  support  is  provided  by  ArtView.  The  media  sponsor  for  this 
exhibition  is  Wired  Magazine. 


Design  Consultant: 
Frankfurt  Balkind  Partners 
NY/LA/SF 


Deutsche  H"1 

Telekom   T 


Printed  in  the  U.S.A.  by 
Hull  Printing 

"Video  Art"  by  Heinrich  Klotz 
translated  from  the  German  by 
Jurgen  Riehle 

Texts  by  Ursula  Frohne, 
Oliver  Seifert,  and  Annika  Blunck 
translated  from  the  German  by 
Bernhard  Geyer 


Photo  credits:  pp.  12-13,  |ngo 
Gunther;  pp.  16-17,  David  Regen, 
courtesy  of  Barbara  Gladstone 
Gallery,  New  York;  p.  20,  Markus 
Hauser;  p.  21,  Toshio  Iwai;  p.  28, 
Giorgio  Colombo,  courtesy  of 
Panza  Archives;  pp.  30-31,  32, 
Douglas  M.  Parker;  pp.  34-35, 
Thomas  Goldschmidt;  pp.  46-47, 
Jeffrey  Shaw;  pp.  50-51,  52-53, 
Ben  Blackwell,  courtesy  of  San 
Francisco  Museum  of  Modern  Art; 
pp.  56-57,  Kira  Perov;  p.  59, 
Per-Anders  Allsten;  pp.  60-61, 
Markus  Hauser 


CONTENTS 

SPONSOR'S   STATEMENT  6 

FOREWORD 

Thomas  Krens  7 

VIDEO     ART 

Heinrich  Klotz  8 

INGOGONTHER  12 

JENNYHOLZER  16 

TOSHIO      IWAI  20 

MARIE-)0     LAFONTAINE  24 

BRUCE      NAUMAN  28 

NAM      JUNE      PAIK  34 

BILL     SEAMAN  42 

JEFFREYSHAW  46 

STEINA     AND     WOODY  VASULKA                               50 

BILL     VIOLA  58 


SPONSOR'S     S  TAT  EMENT 


Art  is  communication;  it  creates  understanding  across  frontiers.  In  many 
respects,  Deutsche  Telekom  has  already  turned  this  truth  into  reality.  For 
Deutsche  Telekom,  art's  beauty  is  much  more  than  what  lies  in  the  eye  of 
the  beholder.  Art  is  intended  to  stimulate  the  mind  and  to  encourage  the 
observer  to  examine  new  viewpoints  and  ideas.  Art  has  always  been  a 
seismograph  registering  social  change.  Indeed,  throughout  history,  artists 
have  depicted  processes  of  change  and  their  consequences  for  humankind. 

At  Deutsche  Telekom,  we  focus  on  innovative  concepts  that  unite 
research,  technology,  and  new  media.  For  this  reason,  we  attach  great 
importance  to  our  collaboration  with  the  Guggenheim  Museum.  The 
Guggenheim  has  a  long  history  of  bringing  art  to  audiences  in  the  United 
States,  Europe,  Asia,  and  Australia.  Deutsche  Telekom  is  establishing  itself 
as  a  global  telecommunications  player,  with  a  growing  number  of  offices, 
partnerships,  and  activities  throughout  the  world.  The  symbiotic  relationship 
between  art  and  telecommunications  enables  the  Guggenheim  Museum 
and  Deutsche  Telekom  to  share  a  global  vision  of  people  communicating 
without  borders. 

Our  sponsorship  of  the  Guggenheim  Museum  concentrates  on 
multimedia  art,  the  most  innovative  art  form  of  our  time.  Mediascape,  the 
first  exhibition  in  our  collaboration,  displays  its  broad  scope.  Mediascape 
brings  together,  for  the  first  time,  works  by  renowned  multimedia  artists 
such  as  Marie-jo  Lafontaine,  Bruce  Nauman,  Nam  June  Paik,  and  Bill  Viola. 

The  exhibition  takes  place,  in  part,  in  the  newly  designated 
Deutsche  Telekom  Galleries  in  the  Guggenheim  Museum  SoHo.  These 
galleries,  which  are  dedicated  primarily  to  the  presentation  of  works  of 
multimedia  and  interactive  art  from  the  collections  of  the  Guggenheim 
Museum  and  ZKM/Center  for  Art  and  Media  Karlsruhe,  reflect  the  changing 
structure  of  society. 

Deutsche  Telekom  is  committed  to  assuming  a  pioneering  role  in 
creating  understanding  and  trust  in  the  opportunities  offered  by  future- 
directed  technologies.  Telecommunications  will  be  among  the  key 
technologies  of  the  next  century.  Not  only  will  telecommunications  have  a 
lasting  impact  on  the  transfer  of  information,  they  will  change  the  very  way 
we  work  and  how  we  enjoy  our  leisure  time.  In  short,  telecommunications 
will  transform  our  way  of  living  and  will  restructure  society  itself. 

Deutsche  Telekom  is  already  playing  a  leading  role  in  industrial 
society's  metamorphosis  into  an  information-based  communications  society. 
We  are  acutely  aware  of  the  enormous  responsibility  that  accompanies  this 
role.  Our  partnership  with  the  Guggenheim  Museum  is  an  example  of  our 
commitment  to  fulfilling  this  responsibility. 

On  behalf  of  Deutsche  Telekom,  I  hope  that  you  enjoy  this 
publication  and  the  exhibition  that  it  accompanies.  I  also  wish  you  a 
pleasant  journey  into  the  information  age. 

Dr.  Ron  Sommer 

Chairman  of  the  Management  Board 

Deutsche  Telekom 


FOREWORD 


Mediascape,  the  exhibition  that  marks  the  reopening  of  the  Guggenheim 
Museum  SoHo,  offers  cause  for  celebration  on  many  fronts.  It  announces  the 
Guggenheim's  commitment  to  exploring  the  relationship  between  technology 
and  culture;  it  initiates  a  long-term  collaboration  between  the  Guggenheim 
Museum  and  ZKM/Center  for  Art  and  Media  in  Karlsruhe,  Germany;  and, 
finally,  the  exhibition  establishes  collaborations  with  corporate  partners  who 
are  providing  both  financial  assistance  and  significant,  long-term  access  to 
technology  and  expertise,  which  will  enable  the  museum  to  realize  complex 
and  unusually  demanding  exhibitions  of  multimedia  art. 

This  is  an  interesting  moment  in  history,  one  that  resembles  the 
Italian  Renaissance  in  its  commingling  of  science,  art,  and  the  humanities.  In 
contemporary  society,  the  traditional  notions  of  time  and  space  have  been 
transformed  by  advances  in  technology,  telecommunications,  and  information 
transfer.  Virtual  communities  have  emerged,  collapsing  long-standing 
geographical  boundaries  and  localized  codes  of  cultural  identity.  The  mass 
manufacturing  and  distribution  of  video  and  computer  equipment  has 
generated  entirely  new  forms  of  cultural  production.  In  unprecedented 
numbers,  and  with  a  sophistication  born  of  easy  access  to  complex 
technologies,  artists  are  using  these  devices  as  aesthetic  tools  to  develop  a 
new  syntax  and  structure  for  art  making.  Mediascape,  which  is  drawn  largely 
from  the  collections  of  ZKM  and  the  Guggenheim,  offers  what  its  title 
suggests:  a  view  of  what  new  media  have  to  offer,  from  sculptural  formats 
and  immersive  environments  to  more  recent  interactive  digital  projects. 

The  seeds  for  a  collaboration  with  ZKM  were  planted  more  than  a 
decade  ago,  while  Heinrich  Klotz,  now  the  Executive  Director  and  Chairman 
of  ZKM,  was  a  visiting  professor  at  Williams  College  in  Williamstown, 
Massachusetts,  and  we  taught  a  course  together.  Over  the  years,  our 
professional  relationship  evolved  into  a  close  friendship,  and  we  spent  many 
hours  discussing  the  potential  impact  of  technology  on  the  culture  of  the 
late-twentieth  and  early  twenty-first  centuries.  When  the  opportunities 
afforded  by  the  Guggenheim's  presence  in  SoHo  intersected  with  the 
museum's  new  partnership  with  Deutsche  Telekom,  the  collaboration  with 
ZKM  became  a  reality.  Mediascape  is  the  first  of  a  long  series  of  exhibitions 
planned  to  investigate  the  enormous  potential  of  the  alliance  between  high 
technology  and  high  culture. 

This  exhibition  and  its  accompanying  publication  have  been  a 
team  effort  from  beginning  to  end.  I  am  most  grateful  to  Professor  Klotz 
and  his  staff  at  ZKM,  including  Curator  of  Contemporary  Art  Ursula  Frohne; 
General  Manager  Gerd  Schwandner;  Registrar  Marianne  Meister;  Curatorial 
Assistant  Oliver  Seifert;  Research  Assistant  Annika  Blunck;  and  Technical 
Assistants  Hartmut  Bruckner  and  Adolf  Mathias,  as  their  participation  in  this 
project  has  been  central  to  its  success.  From  the  Guggenheim,  Associate 
Curator  Nancy  Spector  and  Assistant  Curator  for  Research  Matthew  Drutt 
have  done  an  exemplary  job  in  giving  shape  to  a  complex  project.  They 
were  ably  assisted  by  Exhibition  Coordinator  Jon  Ippolito,  who  handled 
myriad  details  of  this  undertaking.  Curatorial  interns  Miren  )aio,  Amy  Kao, 
and  Ursula  Tax  provided  essential  research  assistance  along  the  way.  I  also 
thank  Lisa  Dennison,  Curator  of  Collections  and  Exhibitions,  for  her 
thoughtful  counsel  and  assistance  in  managing  various  aspects  of  the 
project.  Paul  Kuranko  and  Mark  McLoughlin,  Multimedia  Technical-Design 
Coordinators,  have  provided  invaluable  technical  supervision,  acting  as  the 
museum's  liaison  to  many  of  the  artists  in  the  exhibition.  The  various 
details  of  installing  this  project  were  masterminded  by  Dennis  Vermeulen, 
Senior  Exhibition  Technician;  Michael  Lavin,  Head  of  Technical  Services;  Peter 
Costa,  Project  Services  Manager/Exhibition  Design  Coordinator;  Peter  Read, 
Production  Services  Manager/Exhibition  Design  Coordinator;  Jocelyn  Groom, 
Exhibition  Technician/Administrative  Assistant;  Christopher  Skura,  Museum 
Technician;  Adrienne  Shulman,  Lighting  Technician;  and  Ali  Hbcek  of  Hbcek 
Sweeny  Walter.  Head  Registrar  for  Collections  and  Exhibitions  Suzanne 
Quigley  arranged  for  the  safe  passage  of  works  to  the  museum  from  their 


various  points  of  origin,  and  Director  of  Education  Marilyn  |S  Goodman  has 
developed  a  number  of  public  programs  that  make  the  exhibition  more 
accessible  to  the  diverse  audiences  that  visit  the  Guggenheim. 

This  catalogue  was  handsomely  produced  under  the  guidance  of 
Director  of  Publications  Anthony  Calnek,  together  with  Managing  Editor 
Elizabeth  Levy,  Assistant  Editor  Jennifer  Knox  White,  and  intern  Jose  Ramiro 
Higuera.  We  are  indebted  to  Lester  Chin,  Kent  Hunter,  and  Saeri  Yoo  Park  of 
Frankfurt  Balkind  Partners,  design  consultants  for  this  publication. 
Ms.  Blunck,  Mr.  Drutt,  and  Mr.  Seifert  prepared  the  artists'  biographies, 
and  Mr.  Drutt,  Ms.  Frohne,  and  Mr.  Seifert  compiled  the  bibliographies.  We 
wish  to  thank  all  the  authors  for  their  thoughtful  texts. 

On  behalf  of  our  two  institutions,  I  extend  my  gratitude  to  the 
artists  themselves,  for  their  enthusiastic  participation  in  the  planning  and 
installation  of  this  exhibition.  Nam  June  Paik  generously  made  available  his 
spectacular  video  wall  Megatron.  We  are  grateful  to  him,  and  to  Jung  Sung 
Lee  and  his  assistant  Sung  Koo  Joh,  who  programmed  this  work  for  exhibition 
at  the  Guggenheim.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Steina  and  Woody  Vasulka  for 
lending  their  important  early  work  Matrix  I  to  the  exhibition.  Toshio  Iwai  and 
Bill  Seaman  lent  their  own  artworks,  both  of  which  were  developed  during 
residencies  at  the  Institute  for  Image  Media  at  ZKM.  Ingo  Gunther  refabricated 
key  elements  necessary  to  realize  his  installation.  I  must  also  thank  Morton 
and  Marlene  Meyerson  for  lending  Jenny  Holzer's  untitled  installation  from  the 
1990  Venice  Biennale.  I  am  most  appreciative  to  Vasif  Kortun,  Director  of  the 
Center  for  Curatorial  Studies,  Bard  College,  for  generously  agreeing  to  lend  Bill 
Viola's  The  City  of  Man  from  the  center's  Rivendell  Collection  of  Late 
Twentieth-Century  Art.  The  artists'  assistants  and  technicians  must  also  be 
thanked  for  their  invaluable  contributions  to  the  success  of  this  project:  Paul 
Miller  of  Sunrise  Systems,  and  Jen  Rork,  assistant  to  Jenny  Holzer;  Sukae 
Suzuki,  assistant  to  Mr.  Iwai;  Jochen  Saueracker,  assistant  to  Marie-Jo 
Lafontaine,  and  Dion  Kliner  and  James  Sheppard,  who  fabricated  her  work  for 
this  exhibition;  Juliet  Myers,  assistant  to  Bruce  Nauman;  John  McEvers,  Blair 
Thurman,  Andrew  Norton,  and  John  Huffman  of  Mr.  Paik's  studio;  Bruce 
Hamilton,  assistant  to  the  Vasulkas;  and  Kira  Perov,  Claire  Johnston,  and  Tom 
Piglin  of  Mr.  Viola's  studio. 

Numerous  people  have  provided  vital  counsel  and  support  during 
the  realization  of  this  exhibition,  including  Jeanne  Greenberg;  Frederick  B. 
Henry,  President,  The  Bohen  Foundation;  Jean-Claude  Meyer;  Adrianne 
Wortzel;  Robert  Riley,  Curator  of  Media  Arts,  San  Francisco  Museum  of 
Modern  Art;  Holly  Solomon,  Holly  Solomon  Gallery;  and  Lori  Zippay,  Director, 
Electronic  Arts  Intermix. 

Equipment  and  services  for  Mediascape  have  been  provided  by 
ArtView;  Yamaha  Corporation  of  America  Keyboard  Division;  Silicon  Graphics, 
Inc.;  and  Reuters  America,  Inc.  Fine  Arts  Risk  Management,  New  York, 
provided  insurance  for  much  of  the  equipment.  We  are  also  pleased  to 
welcome  Wired  Magazine  as  the  media  sponsor  for  the  exhibition. 

Finally,  and  most  importantly,  this  exhibition  and  the  collaboration 
between  the  Guggenheim  and  ZKM  have  been  made  possible  only  through 
the  participation  of  Deutsche  Telekom.  The  third-largest  telecommunications 
carrier  worldwide,  Deutsche  Telekom  has  long  fulfilled  its  beliefs  that  art  is 
communication  and  that  art  unites  people.  Under  the  guidance  of  Dr.  Ron 
Sommer,  Chairman  of  the  Management  Board,  the  company  remains 
determined  to  enhance  its  position  as  a  global  leader  in  high  technology 
and  telecommunications.  By  providing  the  resources  for  galleries  at  the 
Guggenheim  Museum  SoHo  to  be  dedicated  to  multimedia  art,  and  by 
providing  access  to  new  and  exciting  technologies  for  cultural  applications, 
Deutsche  Telekom  has  made  a  commitment  to  contemporary  art  and  society 
that  will  resonate  for  many  years  to  come. 

Thomas  Krens 

Director,  The  Solomon  R.  Guggenheim  Foundation 


¥ 


LD 


c  n 


ART 


BEGINNINGS 

As  early  as  1958,  Wolf  Vostell  used  technical  and  electronic  devices  in  his 
"de-coil/ages ,"  incorporating  flickering  TV  screens  into  his  artworks.  But  the 
true  birth  of  video  art  occurred  in  1963,  with  an  exhibition  of  Nam  June 
Paik's  works  incorporating  manipulated  TV  sets  at  Galerie  Parnass  in 
Wuppertal,  Germany,  and  with  Vostell's  6  TV  De-Coll/ages,  shown  at  Smolin 
Gallery  in  New  York  the  same  year.' 

These  early  examples  of  video  art  grew  out  of  the  artists' 
involvement  with  Fluxus.  Paik  and  Vostell  were  both  members  of  this 
international  group  of  artists,  participating  in  Fluxus  performances  in 
Wiesbaden  and  Dusseldorf  in  the  first  years  of  the  1960s.  Rebellious  yet 
unabashedly  playful,  the  Fluxus  group  reveled  in  provocative  gestures.  Its 
members  undoubtedly  encouraged  Paik  and  Vostell  to  undertake  their 
challenging  experiments  in  mixed-media  installations. 

Another  important  influence  on  Paik  was  Karl  Otto  Gdtz, 
an  exponent  of  Art  Informel  who  taught  at  the  Dusseldorf  Kunstakademie. 
Since  1935,  Gotz  had  been  engaged  in  experimental  filmmaking;  like  Hans 
Richter  and  Viking  Eggeling,  he  had  used  the  medium  to  set  abstract  forms 
in  rapid  motion.  Gbtz's  films  may  well  be  the  most  important  link  between 
the  historical  avant-garde's  experimental  films  and  the  moving  images  of 
video  art.  Edith  Decker  recalls  that  at  the  opening  of  his  1963  show  at 
Galerie  Parnass,  Paik  explicitly  thanked  Gotz  for  providing  a  crucial  impulse 
toward  the  use  of  kinetic  images.2 

The  two  contemporary  artists  Paik  most  admired  and  drew 
inspiration  from  were  Joseph  Beuys,  who  was  beginning  to  draw  attention  in 
Dusseldorf  at  the  same  time  as  the  Fluxus  group,  and  John  Cage.  Paik  first 
met  Cage  in  1958,  during  the  International  Fereinkursen  fur  Neue  Musik 
(international  summer  courses  for  new  music)  in  Darmstadt,  near  Frankfurt. 
Paik  learned  from  Cage  a  new  concept  of  communication,  which  redefined 
and  expanded  the  audience's  participation  in  the  performance  of  a  work  of 
art.  Even  more  important,  however,  were  Cage's  principles  of  chance  and 
indeterminacy.  (Explaining  one  of  his  compositions,  for  instance,  Cage  stated 
that  the  "notes  were  determined  by  imperfections  in  the  paper  upon  which 
the  music  was  written.  The  number  of  imperfections  was  determined  by 
chance."3)  Chance  provided  Paik  and  many  other  artists  of  the  1960s  with 
the  conceptual  foundations  of  a  new  aesthetics.  Embracing  chance  as  an 
aesthetic  principle  produced  results  similar  to  those  of  classical  Modernism: 
in  music,  the  abandonment  of  a  tonal  sequence  predicated  on  harmony;  in 
painting,  the  espousal  of  abstraction,  which,  rejecting  mimetic 
representation,  frees  color  from  "objective"  standards  of  "correctness."  Paik 
has  used  chance  to  determine  the  rapid  sequences  of  abstract  shapes  in 
many  of  his  video  works. 

MEDIA     TECHNOLOGIES 

During  the  1960s,  the  development  of  video  sculpture  remained  tied  to  Paik, 
who  moved  from  Germany  to  New  York  in  1964.  When  he  exhibited  his  TV 
Cross  at  the  Tekniska  Museet  in  Stockholm  in  1966,  video  sculpture  came 
into  its  own  as  a  new  art  form.  A  cruciform  arrangement  of  eight  video 


Heinrich  Klotz 


monitors  displaying  abstract  shapes  in  rapid  succession,  the  work  was 
shown  two  years  later  at  Galleria  Bonino  in  New  York.  It  may  have  been  the 
first  appearance  of  a  video  sculpture  in  an  exhibition  space  dedicated  to  the 
fine  arts. 

It  took  a  long  time  for  other  artists  to  realize  the  potential  of  video 
installations,  and  it  took  even  longer  for  a  large  audience  to  accept  and  even 
embrace  the  new  art  form.  Video's  moving  images  share  an  obvious  affinity 
with  those  of  television,  and  this  fosters  among  audiences  a  tendency, 
however  unjustified,  to  implicate  video  art  in  the  sins  and  platitudes  of 
commercial  broadcasting.  In  the  past  ten  years,  however,  there  has  been  a 
marked  shift  in  attitude,  which,  like  the  history  of  video  art  as  a  whole,  is 
intertwined  with  the  development  of  new  technologies,  among  them  those 
enabling  closed-circuit  video  and  large-screen  projections. 

With  closed-circuit  video,  an  image  of  the  viewer  is  included  in  the 
video  picture  that  he  or  she  views.  Thus,  closed-circuit  can  suggest  an 
identity  between  the  space  of  the  viewer  and  the  realm  of  the  artwork. 
During  the  early  stages  of  the  technology's  development  the  image  appeared 
only  after  a  slight  delay,  but  now  it  can  appear  in  real  time.  This  innovation 
marked  a  significant  step  toward  interactivity,  which  has  decisively  changed 
the  nature  of  video  art. 

Beginning  around  1982,  Jeffrey  Shaw  and  other  video  artists  have 
created  works  using  large-screen  projections  of  viewer-manipulated  images, 
and  this  development  has  led  to  a  fundamental  shift  in  our  perception  of 
images  and  our  understanding  of  what  constitutes  a  work  of  art. 
Interactivity  and  large-screen  projection,  which  today  often  complement  each 
other,  started  out  as  separate  phenomena  — Lynn  Hershman's  first  interactive 
installation,  Lorna  (1979-83),  for  instance,  used  an  ordinary  TV  screen.  The 
contemplative  calm  of  the  viewer  who  stands  before  the  static  image  of 
traditional  art  has  been  replaced  by  the  viewer's  active  intervention  in  the 
dynamic  images  of  the  electronic  age. 

THE     AESTHETICS     OF     VIDEO     ART 

Video  art  demands  that  we  redefine  our  modes  of  aesthetic  perception.  This 
is  due  to  several  inherent  characteristics  and  possibilities  of  video: 

1.  The  continuous  changing  of  the  moving  image.  The  moving  image  does 
not  permit  contemplative  absorption;  rather,  as  we  follow  the  constantly 
changing  images,  our  attention  focuses  on  drama,  narrative,  or  the 
variations  of  mutable  forms.  Thus,  with  video  art,  the  nineteenth-century 
ideal  of  delimitation  and  transcendence  of  self  through  aesthetic 
contemplation  is  no  longer  possible. 

2.  The  linking  of  numerous  images  and  the  dispersal  of  vision.  The  parallel 
screening  of  different  videotapes  on  stacked  monitors  presents  a  multiplicity 
of  synchronous  images,  fostering  a  nervous  tension  and  a  dispersion,  or 
dissipation,  of  the  gaze  instead  of  focused  concentration.  (Works  that 
display  the  same  image  in  uniform  synchronicity  on  multiple  monitors,  on 
the  other  hand,  may  induce  a  sense  of  calm.) 


3.  The  unfolding  of  sequences  of  images  over  time.  In  this  aspect,  video  art 
corresponds  to  the  aesthetics  of  film  — an  aesthetics  of  narrative  and 
development  rather  than  one  of  perception  at  a  glance.  The  static  being- 
there  of  the  immutable  image  is  replaced  by  an  evolving  image  sequence, 
and  the  work  of  art  becomes  a  journey  rather  than  a  presence  that  can  be 
encompassed  in  one  glance.  Video  is  distinguished  from  film,  however,  by 
the  simplicity  of  its  use:  like  paint  and  brush,  its  cassette  format  allows  a 
spontaneous  approach. 

4.  Spatial  simulation.  Video  and  electronic  images  permit  the  implementation 
of  spatial  effects,  and  the  result  is  a  heightening  of  the  illusion  of  depth,  far 
beyond  that  achieved  by  perspective  painting.  This  path  toward  a  simulated 
perceptual  reality  leads  to  the  immersive  environments  of  virtual  reality. 

5.  The  immateriality  of  the  images.  Unlike  paintings,  media  images  do  not 
exist  in  a  largely  unaltered  state,  but  as  pixellated  possibilities  that  need  to 
be  "switched  on."  The  media  image  makes  its  appearance  in  the  monitor's 
rays,  without  being  there  with  any  permanence.  Mechanically  produced  and 
reproduced,  it  is  "cold"  — a  technological  image  that  bears  no  trace  of  its 
production.  The  media  image  possesses  no  "aura,"  to  use  Walter  Benjamin's 
term.  This  is  not  to  say  that  the  cold,  technological  image  cannot  be  a  work 
of  art.  Its  artistic  essence  emerges  over  the  duration  of  its  narrative,  its 
composed  sequence  of  images. 

As  it  is  immaterial  and  devoid  of  aura,  the  technological  image 
can  be  endlessly  multiplied  without  being  robbed  of  its  "authenticity."  By 
nature  reproducible,  the  media  artwork  exists  only  in  "copies,"  quite  like  an 
engraving  or  woodcut,  and  the  number  of  copies  that  are  made  is  strictly 
arbitrary.  Indeed,  a  video's  master  tape  will  fade,  only  to  be  renewed  Jn  its 
copies.  Since  it  cannot  be  appraised  as  a  unique,  "original"  object,  a  video's 
value  as  a  work  of  art  eludes  the  traditional  standards  that  are  applied  to  a 
collector's  — or  investor's  — object. 

6.  The  capability  of  the  viewer  to  influence  the  image  interactively. 
Interactivity  alters  the  traditional  conception  of  the  artistic  image  as  an 
object  on  display.  The  interactive  image  does  not  ask  to  be  silently 
contemplated  but  demands  some  form  of  action.  As  with  all  moving  images, 
the  conventional  notion  of  aesthetic  perception  as  "disinterested 
contemplation"  (to  use  Arthur  Schopenhauer's  term)  is  dispersed,  and  the 
awed  silence  of  pure  looking  makes  way  for  the  joyful  exploration  of  an 
interactive  world.  The  viewer  becomes  a  player,  enjoying  the  freedom  of 
intellectual  and  sensual  games.  A  playful  modification  of  the  given  within 
limited  possibilities,  interactivity  makes  reference  to  the  limits  of  what  is 
visually  set  in  motion,  the  limits  of  the  work  of  art,  the  limits  of  fiction.  It 
approaches  reality  but  is  never  reality  itself. 

A     HISTORY     OF     IMAGES 

The  characteristics  of  video  art  that  distinguish  it  from  what  came  before 
underscore  the  fact  that  a  new  art  form  has  emerged,  one  with  its  own 


rules  and  concepts  — the  latest  form  in  the  long  history  of  art  mediums  and 
their  applications.  The  true  significance  of  the  moving  image  and  its 
technologies  is  revealed  when  we  relate  video  to  the  larger  history  of 
artistic  image  making. 

The  history  of  Western  art  forms  begins  with  the  emancipation  of 
the  painted  image  from  a  fixed  support,  a  development  that  would 
ultimately  lead  to  the  autonomous  image  as  an  aesthetic  object. 
Around  1180,  the  first  movable  panel  paintings  emerged,  in  the  form  of 
altarpieces  painted  on  wood  — surrogates  for  the  golden  tablets  of  the  early 
Middle  Ages.  Over  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries,  the  image 
separated  from  the  altar,  eventually  to  become  paintings  on  canvas.  Also  in 
the  fifteenth  century,  along  with  the  birth  of  movable  type  in  1445,  was  the 
invention  of  the  woodcut  (ca.  1400)  and  engraving  (ca.  1430-40).  For  the 
first  time,  images  were  able  to  be  reproduced  in  sizable  quantities.  In 
contrast  to  paintings,  which  were  commissioned  by  individual  patrons, 
woodcuts  and  engravings  addressed  a  general  audience,  and  they 
contributed  significantly  to  the  formation  of  public  opinion.  Although  the 
works  were  still  inscribed  with  the  traces  of  manual  production,  a  technical 
process  mediated  between  the  hand-cut  image  on  the  plate  and  its 
multiple  prints;  thus,  these  forms  marked  the  first  step  toward 
mechanical  reproduction.  Another  new  medium  was  born  in  the  late  1790s, 
with  Aloys  Senefelder's  invention  of  lithography,  which  allowed  the  artist's 
brushstroke  to  be  transferred  onto  a  print,  thus  adding  a  dimension  of 
gestural  spontaneity. 

The  development  of  photography  in  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth 
century  introduced  a  new  quality  to  art  making,  for  in  the  photochemical 
production  process,  direct,  physical  human  touch  is  entirely  absent.  For  this 
reason,  the  photograph  was  thought  of  as  a  "cold"  mechanical  image,  and 
until  recent  times  was  precluded  from  being  considered  a  medium  of 
genuine  art. 

With  the  invention  of  cinematography  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  the  concept  of  the  image  expanded  further,  as  images  began  to 
move.  The  rise  of  Modernism  was  interconnected  with  the  rise  of  the  motion 
picture;  while  perspective  — the  great  invention  of  the  Renaissance  — had 
added  the  appearance  of  space  to  the  flat  image  surface,  movies  added  the 
dimension  of  time,  turning  narrative  development  into  an  unfolding  image. 

The  late-nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries  brought 
further  variations  on  the  photographic  image:  the  three-dimensional 
stereoscopic  photograph,  the  backlit  transparency,  and  the  color  photograph. 
At  the  same  time,  photomechanical  printing  created  a  new  type  of  image 
reproduction,  which  caused  a  revolution  in  the  way  images  were  perceived 
by  the  public.  Broken  down  into  dots  and  reconstructed  by  the  viewer's 
eye,  the  machine-reproduced  photograph  anticipated  the  pixellated  electronic 
image.  The  latter's  most  pervasive  form  is  undoubtedly  television,  which  has 
arguably  triggered  the  most  intensive  image  consumption  in  history.  (Given 
that  a  person  in  the  industrialized  world  spends,  on  average,  three  to  four 
hours  a  day  looking  at  a  TV  screen,  one  can  gauge  to  what  degree  this 
form  of  image  perception  has  conditioned  the  contemporary  mind.) 


Today's  information  technologies  have  provided  a  multitude  of  new 
image  types,  many  of  which  are  based  on  digital  data  processing.  Now,  in 
addition  to  traditional  mediums  such  as  oil  painting,  engraving  and  woodcut, 
etching,  mosaic,  lithography,  photography,  film,  and  halftone  reproduction 
and  process  printing,  we  have  many  kinds  of  electronic  images,  with 
different  forms  of  dissemination:  television  and  video  images,  computer- 
generated  images,  video  animation,  scanned  images,  images  stored  on 
CD-ROM  or  traveling  through  the  Internet,  and  so  on.  The  most  intense 
experience  of  image  perception,  however,  is  provided  by  the  artificial, 
interactive  spaces  of  virtual  reality,  in  which,  immersed  in  a  simulated 
environment  projected  onto  the  LCD  screens  of  3-D  goggles,  the  viewer  uses 
his  or  her  body's  responses  to  navigate  through  the  space  at  will. 

This  brief  history  clearly  shows  that  the  creation  of  image  types 
and  the  corresponding  changes  in  image  perception  are  among  the  most 
important  themes  of  cultural  development. 

THE     TYPOLOGY     AND     PUBLIC     PERCEPTION 
OF     VIDEO     ART 

Art  has  always  responded  to  new  technologies,  appropriating  the  materials 
of  culture  in  different  ways.  The  material  of  video  art  is  the  monitor  image 
or,  more  accurately,  the  television  picture,  which,  since  the  1950s,  has 
been  available  to  a  mass  audience.  Yet  video  artists  have  generally 
assumed  a  critical  stance  toward  the  television  picture,  adopting  the 
technology  while  challenging  its  contents.  By  employing  a  commonly  used 
technological  material  in  a  subversive  way,  they  present  a  critical 
counterforce  to  entertainment  and  advertising,  the  most  popular  forms  of 
communication  today. 

Video  art  is  nonetheless  subjected  to  the  same  skepticism 
and  critical  scrutiny  that  we  bring  to  bear  on  television,  as  our 
annoyance  at  the  glut  of  television  imagery  has  come  to  determine  our 
attitude  toward  anything  a  monitor  shows.  It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that 
video  artworks  sometimes  use  aesthetically  reconfigured  responses 
to  television,  but  their  critical  nature  is  not  always  understood  by  audiences. 

Paik's  was  the  first  and  most  immediate  artistic  response  to 
television's  moving  images.  In  his  work,  he  "took  revenge"  on  television  by 
speeding  up  its  pictures  until  they  became  barely  decipherable  flickering 
shapes.  Oscillations  between  figurative  and  abstract  images,  they  suggest, 
nonetheless,  a  compositional  intent,  a  kind  of  longing  for  order  amid 
complete  disarray. 

Bill  Viola's  response  has  been  quite  the  opposite:  Viola  resists 
television's  constant  motion  by  almost  arresting  it.  In  his  video  installation 


Threshold  (1995),  an  LED  signboard  is  mounted  on  the  outer  walls  of  a 
room;  messages  carrying  the  latest  news  flash  across  it  in  nervous  haste. 
Passing  through  an  opening  that  intersects  the  LED  display,  one  enters  a 
darkened  space  where  two-meter-high  images  of  human  heads  are  projected 
on  three  walls.  One  expects  movement,  but  nothing  stirs;  the  heads  simply 
lie  there,  on  pillows,  immobile,  seemingly  dead.  Startled,  one  looks  for  a 
flinch,  a  twitch,  a  sign  of  life.  Only  after  one  has  all  but  given  up, 
apparently  confronted  with  the  stillness  of  death,  does  one  recognize  that 
these  people  are  breathing,  their  chests  moving  up  and  down  ever  so 
slightly.  They  are  sleeping:  it  is  a  joyful  discovery,  and  one  clings  to  the 
barely  perceptible  movement,  grateful  that  these  pictures  are,  after  all, 
moving,  that  the  stillness  is  not  complete.  The  scene's  power  lies  in  this 
contrast;  it  is  an  aesthetics  of  antithesis  and  defiance,  an  aesthetics  of  the 
unexpected.  The  human  images,  which  appear  in  photographic  form,  credibly 
assure  us  that  we  are  still  there,  that  we  exist.  Outside  of  the  room,  we 
experience  the  actuality  of  changing  events,  with  the  rapidly  moving  LED 
letters  carrying  the  superficiality  of  countless  occurrences,  but  on  the  inside, 
we  are  confronted  with  the  state  of  stillness,  of  sleep,  of  eternity. 

THE     HUMAN      IMAGE 

Threshold  breaks  a  near-taboo  of  recent  art— the  taboo  against  the  direct 
representation  of  the  human  figure.  Video  art  emerged  at  a  critical  juncture 
in  art  discourse,  lending  a  renewed  viability  to  fictional  narratives,  and 
linking  these  narratives  to  the  representation  of  the  human  image. 

Like  Viola,  Paik  has  invented  images  that  are  completely  alien,  even 
antithetical,  to  television,  human  images  of  superb  strangeness.  In  his  well- 
known  work  Beuys,  which  was  included  in  Documenta  8,  he  inserted  scenes 
from  a  performance  by  Beuys  into  rapid  image  sequences.  The  scenes  show 
Beuys  transformed  into  a  screaming  coyote;  struggling  for  words,  howling,  he 
fights  to  regain  language,  in  order  to  metamorphose  back  into  a  human 
being;  he  is  a  man  turned  beast,  grasping  in  vain  for  human  expression. 
Certainly  not  the  stuff  for  television  broadcasts,  this  is  the  expression  of  a 
profound  dissent,  a  desperate  quest  to  reconnect  to  humanity. 

The  image  of  man  at  the  outer  limits  of  humanity  is  a  recurring 
theme  in  the  work  of  many  important  video  artists.  In  Nauman's  Raw 
Material:  Brrr,  video  projections  show  a  human  face  uttering  nothing  but 
nonsensical  sounds.  It  is  the  image  of  a  stupid,  slobbering,  abject,  and 
antihuman  figure,  the  very  opposite  of  television's  usual  telegenic  glamor. 
Nauman  depicts  humanity  after  the  so-called  "loss  of  center"— the  brutish 
human  being  of  the  twentieth  century,  who  has  shed  the  "beautiful  soul"  of 
Romanticism  and  the  humanist  ideals  of  classical  antiquity.  In  his  work,  we 


experience  the  vision  of  humanity  introduced  by  Francisco  de  Goya  and 
elaborated  by  the  Surrealists:  man  at  his  most  remote  from  God's  image,  from 
an  ideal  whose  very  absence  makes  it  the  work's  most  urgent  reference. 

This  is  the  only  way  left  to  articulate  the  human  image.  The 
representational  figure  has  lost  all  credibility  in  painting,  but  what  has 
ceased  to  be  acceptable  in  other  art  forms,  what  has  caused  the 
embarrassment  associated  with  insipidity  or  the  discomfort  of  deja-vu,  can 
now  be  expressed  in  a  new  way  and  with  elemental  directness.  Video  art 
has  expanded  our  range  of  expression  and  reintroduced  subjects  that  had 
been  excluded  from  most  artistic  representation. 

The  aesthetics  of  the  historical  avant-garde,  which  attempted  to 
open  the  border  between  art  and  life  and  to  suspend  the  difference 
between  reality  and  art,  has  been  supplanted  by  fictional  narratives.  The 
more  television  imagery  has  tried  to  fraternize  with  reality,  the  more  video 
imagery  has  stressed  the  difference.  Although  it  often  references  reality, 
video  art  emphatically  maintains  its  own  narrative  worlds. 

THE     POETICS     OF     VIDEO     ART 

All  of  video's  narratives  can  be  related  to  the  classical  categories  of 
aesthetics.  It  is  possible,  in  fact,  to  establish  a  new  poetic  typology. 

When  video  takes  the  place  of  film,  it  is  commonly  used  not  for 
long  epics  but  for  short  subjects,  for  which  film  would  be  inappropriate,  as 
in  Das  Zersprungene  Glas  {The  Broken  Glass)  by  Dieter  Kiessling.  The  video's 
opening  title,  "Dieter  Kiessling— Das  Zersprungene  Glas,"  is  displayed 
vertically  on  the  screen,  but  while  we  read  it,  the  glass  plate  bearing  the 
title  suddenly  drops  to  the  floor  and  shatters  as  the  camera  tilts  to  capture 
its  fall.  That  is  all.  The  title  keeps  its  promise  with  unexpected  immediacy, 
for  it  is  the  whole  work,  its  own  story.  This  is  the  shortest  form  of 
storytelling,  the  most  concise  version  of  narration.  By  classical  categories, 
the  work  is  a  video  poem  or  perhaps  a  video  aphorism. 

While  the  epic  novel  has  remained  the  domain  of  the  movies, 
video  tends  toward  brevity,  a  tersely  made  point,  sparse  hints.  Videos 
usually  take  the  form  of  interpolation,  annotation,  even  haiku.  With  video, 
there  is  a  broad  range  of  expressive  possibilities  that  supplement,  expand, 
and  enrich  earlier  techniques  of  art.  As  with  photography  and  film  before 
video,  these  new  forms  of  expression  will  not  destroy  the  traditional  arts, 
but  will  open  up  new  forms  of  representation. 


classical  poetics:  interactive  media  art,  artworks  that  are  intrinsically 
interactive.  How  can  this  possibly  be  art?  Hasn't  art  always  been  made  for 
the  purpose  of  contemplation;  doesn't  the  ultimate  fulfillment  of  art  lie  in 
its  quiet  presence  before  the  eyes  of  the  beholder?  There  is  a  suspicion  that 
interactive  art  is  appropriating  the  performing  arts  to  create  an  indigestible 
mixture  that  defies  all  proper  categorization. 

One  example:  I  am  sitting  on  a  bicycle  facing  a  large  projection 
screen.  On  the  screen,  I  see  the  streets  of  Manhattan,  with  its  buildings 
transformed  into  giant  letters.  I  am  pedaling  through  the  city,  steering  with 
the  handlebar,  riding  through  the  canyons  of  midtown  and  down  Fifth 
Avenue.  The  three-and-a-half-meter-tall  screen  pulls  me  in,  inviting  me  to 
navigate  along  the  corridors  of  letters:  down  Broadway,  toward  the  World 
Trade  Center,  left  on  Wall  Street,  and  on  to  the  Seaport.  The  colorful  scenery 
of  letters,  streets,  and  sky  is  an  artificial  world,  a  fictional  city,  a  vision,  a 
surreal  environment  of  forms.  With  my  own  bodily  movements  I  am 
constantly  changing  the  image  before  me,  determining  and  altering  its  form 
through  my  active  intervention.  It  is  a  playful  experience.  In  this  installation 
by  Shaw,  The  Legible  City  (1988-89),  the  work  of  art  turns  into  play,  the 
viewer  into  a  homo  ludens.  To  question  whether  this  is  still  art  becomes 
meaningless:  in  The  Legible  City,  we  trespass  boundaries,  move  freely 
across  categories,  and  liberate  ourselves  from  definitions. 

1.  Edith  Decker  has  discussed  the  beginnings  of  video  art  in  Paik  — Video  (Cologne:  DuMont, 
1988). 

2.  Ibid.,  p.  21. 

3.  John  Cage,  Silence  (Middletown,  Conn.:  Wesleyan  University  Press,  1973;  1979), 
p.  27. 

4.  Hans  Belting,  Bild  und  Kunst:  Zur  Geschichte  des  Bildes  vor  dem  Zeitalter  der  Kunst 
(Munich:  C.  H.  Beck,  1990). 


INTERACTIVITY 

There  is  a  type  of  media  art  that  completely  evades  all  traditional 
classifications  and  can  no  longer  be  addressed  within  the  framework  of 


I 


■ 


■ 


_ 


f\ 


GUNTH 


IM     BEREICH      DER     W  E  S  T  -  W  I  N  D  -  W  E  L  T ,     1991 

Two  flags  hoisted  on  metal  staffs  flap  in  an  artificial  wind,  approaching 
each  other  without  ever  touching.  In  place  of  the  emblem  that  usually 
identifies  a  piece  of  fabric's  symbolic  meaning  as  a  flag,  here  each  rectangle 
of  pure-white  material  is  vividly  colored  by  projected  images,  virtual 
patterns  and  signs.  Intentionally  left  blank,  their  neutral  surfaces  offer 
themselves  as  projection  screens  for  a  variety  of  national  emblems, 
ideological  symbols,  and  portraits  of  leaders  of  every  political  coloration.  On 
the  flag  to  the  left,  photographs  of  outer  space  and  fighter  jets  blend  with 
a  projection  of  the  American  flag's  stars  and  stripes.  They  constitute  a 
symbolic  compound,  signifying  the  basic  tenets  of  democracy  and  the  world 
influence  of  the  United  States.  The  other  flag  displays  a  hammer  and  sickle 
on  a  red  background,  the  graphic  emblem  of  Soviet  Communism.  This  image 
appears  in  sequence  with  portraits  of  Mikhail  Gorbachev,  the  personification 
of  perestroika,  which  was  in  full  bloom  in  the  year  the  work  was  made.  The 
blankness  of  the  fabric,  together  with  the  constant  changing  of  the 
projected  images,  suggest  the  fundamental  interchangeability  of  political 
programs  and  ideological  values. 

For  Ingo  Gunther,  political  events  have  a  fascinating  aura,  for 
while  they  are  experienced  as  complex  occurrences  in  "real  time,"  they 
acquire  a  historical  dimension  almost  immediately.  Many  of  Giinther's 
installations  are  based  on  current  political  tendencies  and  their  global 
impact.  After  a  series  of  early  video  works  dealing  primarily  with  the 
phenomenon  of  movement,  he  began  to  explore  in  greater  detail  the 
possibilities  of  the  electronic  media  in  the  visual  arts.  In  his  research,  he 
encountered  the  codified  language  of  the  military,  a  metalanguage  that  is 
intentionally  made  incomprehensible  to  outsiders.  The  complex  interaction 
between  communication  and  control— the  different  means  of  transferring 
information  and  the  strict  censorship  of  such  data;  the  obstruction  of 
communication  and  the  role  of  the  military  as  an  agent  of  control  in  the 
distribution  of  information;  the  justification  of  covert  action  as  the  legal 
instrument  of  the  government's  defense  of  national  and  ideological 
identity— opened  up  a  wide  field  of  possible  artistic  strategies  confronting 
the  military/industrial  information  and  technology  monopolies.  In  the  1980s, 
Gunther  began  to  experiment  with  satellite  images  taken  from  outer  space. 
These  images  show  the  effect  of  human  activity  on  the  climate  and  ecology 
of  the  earth,  but  also  reveal  military  data  and  strategic  positions.  He 
transposed  them  into  a  computer-controlled  three-dimensional  projection,  in 
which  political  power  structures  and  their  strategic  planning  are  exposed  as 
a  self-governing  system;  the  work  suggests  that  each  power  block's  constant 
surveillance  of  its  own  positions  and  those  of  the  enemy  is  completely 
disconnected  from  any  individual  experience  of  reality.1 

Im  Bereich  der  West-Wind-Welt  continues  themes  found  in 
Giinther's  earlier  work,  adopting  a  critical  position  in  relation  to  the  power 
of  the  state  and  its  representatives,  its  systems  and  insignias,  its  ideological 
programs  and  political  subjects.  The  opposing  flags,  symbolizing  the  two 
superpowers  and  the  polarized  hostility  that  characterized  their  relationship 
for  decades,  represent  Gunther's  reaction  to  the  shifts  in  world  politics  that 
were  occurring  as  he  conceived  the  installation.  Gunther  responded  to  the 
easing  of  tensions  between  the  United  States  and  the  former  Soviet  Union  — 
to  a  large  degree,  the  outcome  of  Gorbachev's  perestroika  and  glasnost 
politics— with  a  formulation  that  is  less  emphatic  than  the  approval  with 
which  the  situation  was  generally  met;  believing  that  it  could  be  judged 
only  from  a  historical  perspective,  he  created  a  work  that  represents  an 
ambivalent  response.  That  the  media  played  a  crucial  role  in  this 
development— even  in  the  Soviet  Union,  under  the  strict  censorship  of 
Communist  rule  — is  suggested  in  Gunther's  installation  by  the  many  images 
drawn  from  both  the  rhetoric  of  Communist  propaganda  and  the  Western 
media.  Thus  it  would  seem  that  the  fall  of  the  Iron  Curtain  could  also  be 
interpreted  as  a  victory  of  the  media  over  the  proclaimed  integrity  of 
political  programs. 


E  R 


Oriented  toward  each  other,  the  ideological  banners  evoke  the 
rapprochement  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  United  States.  Historically,  the 
waving  flag  has  served  as  a  symbol  of  rebellion  and  the  willingness  to 
fight;  in  this  sense,  it  seems  to  represent  a  mindset  counter  to  political 
accord.  Yet  the  thawing  of  relations  between  former  political  enemies  is  in 
itself  a  revolutionary  event.  The  main  impulse  behind  this  revolution, 
however,  was  not  the  Utopian  vision  of  the  Communist  International,  which 
once  tried  to  unify  the  masses,  but,  in  the  Soviet  Union,  the  concrete 
promise  of  joining  the  capitalist  world— the  world  where  the  "West  wind" 
blows.  The  opposing  flags  in  Gunther's  installation,  with  their  simulacra  of 
the  media  world,  illustrate  the  easing  of  tensions  and  the  dissolution  of 
ideological  differences,  leading  to  globalization. 

Gunther's  casting  of  current  events  in  symbolic  form,  despite  their 
short-lived  relevance  in  periods  of  political  and  social  change,  gives 
evidence  of  the  artist's  concern  for  capturing  the  figurative  sense  of  the 
historic  value  and  significance  of  complex  developments  and  processes  that 
cannot  be  captured  through  documentary  photographs.  Thus,  the  artist 
plays  the  role  of  Walter  Benjamin's  metaphorical  angel,  who  flies  through 
time,  driven  by  the  wind  of  history,  with  its  back  toward  the  future,  facing 
the  past. 

In  the  clusters  of  projected  images  and  also  in  the  work's  themes, 
Im  Bereich  der  West-Wind-Welt  can  be  compared  to  Robert  Rauschenberg's 
silk-screen  paintings.  In  them,  Rauschenberg  uses  existing  photographs— 
that  is,  he  reproduces  reproductions;  similarly,  Gunther  projects  onto  his 
"canvases"  images  he  has  taken  from  the  media.  Rauschenberg's 
manipulation  of  images— taken  from  different  viewpoints,  mounted  next  to 
each  other,  and  sometimes  repeated  — is  similar  to  the  way  Gunther  cuts 
and  superimposes  his  video  projections.  Projected  onto  a  surface  that  is 
itself  in  motion,  the  moving  images  in  Gunther's  work  appear  partially 
blurred,  thereby  communicating  their  media  character;  in  Rauschenberg's 
silk-screens,  the  grainy  quality  of  the  magazine  pictures  serves  the  same 
purpose.  In  both  cases,  the  visual  quality  of  the  images  forces  the  viewer  to 
remain  aware  of  their  illusionary  character.  Both  works  also  contain  gestic 
attributes— the  application  of  paint  in  Rauschenberg's  case,  the  moving 
flags  in  Gunther's  installation  — and  use  vibrant  television-type  colors;  while 
Rauschenberg  enhanced  his  colors  with  special  inks,  the  effect  is  similar  to 
the  vibrant  colors  of  the  video  projections  on  Gunther's  flags.  The 
interaction  between  images  that  appear  to  merge  in  the  viewer's  perception 
brings  the  works  of  Rauschenberg  and  Gunther  very  close  to  abstraction. 

It  is  inconceivable  that  Gunther,  who  has  lived  in  the  United 
States  for  over  ten  years,  could  employ  the  symbolically  and  emotionally 
charged  motif  of  the  flag  in  an  almost  abstract  sense  without  having  the 
Pop  art  icons  of  Jasper  Johns  in  mind.  The  question  so  frequently  asked  in 
front  of  the  work  of  the  American  painter— "Is  it  a  flag  or  a  painting?"  — 
could  thus  be  rephrased  for  Gunther's  installation:  "Is  it  a  flag  or  is  it  an 
image?" 

1.  See  Jurgen  Schweinebraden,  "C3:  Command-Communication-Control  and  Intelligence,"  in 
Documents  8,  exh.  cat.  (Kassel:  Documenta,  1987),  vol.  2,  p.  90. 

Ursula  Frohne 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C ATA  LO  G  U  E  S 


pages  12-13:  Ingo  Gunther, 
Im  Bereich  der  West-Wind -Welt 
{In  the  Realm  of  the  West-Wind- 
World),  1991.  Two-channel  video 
installation,  30  minutes,  color; 
installation  space  variable, 
approximately  4x5x6m. 
ZKM/Center  for  Art  and  Media 
Karlsruhe. 


Ingo  Gunther  was  born  in  1957 
near  Hannover,  Germany.  He 
studied  ethnology  and  cultural 
anthropology  at  the  Johann- 
Wolfgang-Goethe-Universitat  in 
Frankfurt  in  1977.  From  1978, 
he  attended  the  Diisseldorf 
Kunstakademie,  where  he  studied 
with  Fritz  Schwegler,  Gunther 
Uecker,  and  Nam  June  Paik, 
graduating  with  a  Master  of  Arts 
in  1983. 

During  the  1970s,  Gunther  traveled 
extensively  in  North  Africa,  North 
and  Central  America,  and  Asia.  In 
1983,  he  received  a  stipend  from 
the  Diisseldorf  Kunstakademie  for 
a  residency  at  P.S.i  in  New  York. 
He  received  a  DAAD  grant  in  1984, 
and  a  Kunstfond  grant  in  1987.  In 
1988,  he  was  awarded  the  Preis 
des  Kulturkreises  des  Bundes  der 
Deutschen  Industrie,  and  in  1996, 
he  was  presented  with  a 
Stankowski  Award.  Between  1990 
and  1994,  Gunther  was  a  professor 
at  the  Kunsthochschule  fiir 
Medien,  Cologne. 

Gunther's  early  work  in  video  led 
him  to  pursue  media-  and 
journalism-oriented  projects  in 
print,  television,  and  art  He -has 
worked  with  NHK  TV  in  japan  as 
an  artist,  correspondent,  and 
writer,  and  in  1989,  he  founded 
Kanal  X,  the  first  independent 
television  station  in  Eastern 
Europe. 

Works  by  Gunther  were  shown  at 
the  Nationalgalerie  Berlin,  1983 
and  1985;  Venice  Biennale,  1984; 
Documents,  Kassel,  Germany, 
1987;  Ars  Electronica,  Linz,  Austria, 
1991;  Centra  Cultural  de  Belem, 
Lisbon,  1994;  and  Hiroshima  City 
Museum  of  Contemporary  Art, 
1995. 


Documents  8.  Kassel:  Documents, 
1987. 

Universalpoesien.  Hamburg: 
Kunstverein  Hamburg,  1988. 

Arbeit  in  Geschichte  -  Geschichte 
in  Arbeit.  Hamburg:  Kunsthaus  und 
Kunstverein,  1988. 

World  Processor  -  Das  andere  Bild 
der  Erde.  Hamburg: 
Produzentengalerie,  1989. 

Video-Skulptur:  Retrospektiv  und 
Aktuell,  1963-1989.  Cologne: 
Kolnischer  Kunstverein  and 
DuMont  Kunsthalle,  1989. 

World  Processor.  Tokyo: 
Shogukukan,  1990. 

Ars  Electronica  91.  Linz:  Ars 
Electronica,  1991. 

6a/f;'c  Biennal.  Rostock:  Kunsthalle 
Rostock,  1992. 

The  Binary  Era.  Brussels:  Musee 
d'lssel,  1992. 

Moving  Image:  Electronic  Art. 
Karlsruhe:  ZKM;  Munich  and 
Stuttgart:  Oktagon,  1992. 

Humpty  Dumpt/s  Kaleidoscope. 
Sydney:  Museum  of  Contemporary 
Art,  1992. 

Global  Change/Erdsicht.  Bonn: 
Kunst-  und  Ausstellungshalle  der 
Bundesrepublik  Deutschland,  1992. 

Kunst  im  Weltmasstab.  Kiel, 
Germany:  Kunsthalle  zu  Kiel,  1993. 

Integral.  Berlin:  NGBK,  1993. 

MultiMediale  3.  Karlsruhe:  ZKM, 
1993- 

40th  International  Short  Film 
Festival.  Oberhausen,  1994. 

Multiple  Dimensions.  Lisbon: 
Centra  Cultural  de  Belem,  1994. 

Fotofest  94.  Houston:  George 
Brown  Convention  Center,  1994. 


Wdeo  Skulptur  in  Deutschland. 
Stuttgart:  Institut  fur 
Auslandsbeziehungen,  1995. 

After  Hiroshima.  Hiroshima: 
Hiroshima  City  Museum  of 
Contemporary  Art,  1995. 


15 


Il» 


■ 


■ 


f I 


^m 


>.f'^\ 


v  ■ 


I 


■ 


rtSIMMSTSTEl 

:H   WHEN    IT   DDE 
EL     CIBD     HE 


'   "*    ^^"ZlOSRWStt 


m 


m 


QUE  Lfi  CRUELD 


I 


i»  iiljiil  S I 


HifiE  ru  CBflElTD 


•  I 


1 « I 


II 


:H    I'iHEM    II.    DOE 


LERI 

;Wil?      I="L 

QN6        GETTIN 

STESSD     P 


■*€. 

:•»*' 


IEMPRE   ES   PD 

i :  111  ••»■ 


,  ,,i;  i  ii'-'  ! 


:     i;: 


nin|! 


IE Mb BE   ES   t-a 


[LL  EXPLODE 


cnMG       e     LIW 


JENNY 


HOLZER 


UNTITLED,     1990 

Since  the  late  1970s,  Jenny  Holzer  has  explored  in  her  art  strategies  of 
public  address  and  the  production  of  knowledge,  using  language  as  her 
primary  means  of  expression.  Rejecting  the  pictorial  and  formal  systems  of 
painting,  her  works  appropriate  the  technological  devices  of  the  mass 
media  to  examine  the  construction  of  social  relations  and  political 
ideology.  Beginning  with  inexpensively  printed  posters  and  stickers,  Holzer's 
art  has  steadily  evolved  in  sophistication,  expanding  into  a  lexicon  that 
includes  manufactured  brass  plaques,  advertising  billboards,  television, 
radio,  electronic  signs,  clothing,  benches,  and  sarcophagi.  For  much  of  her 
career,  Holzer  has  presented  her  work  both  inside  and  outside  the 
traditional  locations  for  art;  it  has  often  appeared  in  public  spaces, 
including  parks,  bus  shelters,  airports,  and  bank  windows.  Recently,  in 
gallery  and  museum  installations,  Holzer  has  created  contemplative 
environments  reminiscent  of  chapels  or  burial  chambers,  introducing  into 
her  investigation  of  how  we  define  ourselves  the  role  of  religious 
institutions. 

Holzer's  two  earliest  series  were  Truisms  (1977-79)  and 
Inflammatory  Essays  (1979-82).  Composed  of  a  litany  of  one-line 
statements,  the  Truisms  are  pithy,  cynical  observations  on  behavior  and 
desire  (such  us  children  are  the  cruelest  of  all,  children  are  the  hope  of  the 
future,  and  protect  me  from  what  1  want).  The  Inflammatory  Essays  are 
paragraph-long  texts,  many  of  which  are  angry  or  passionate  exhortations 
(a  cruel  but  ancient  law  demands  an  eye  for  an  eye.  murder  must  be  answered  by 
execution.  only  god  has  the  right  to  take  a  life  and  when  someone  breaks  this  law 
he  will  be  punished.  .  .  . )  Both  series  were  initially  produced  as  offset  posters 
and  pasted  anonymously  to  the  facades  of  buildings,  at  construction  sites, 
in  subways,  and  in  other  locations  where  a  profusion  of  graffiti  and 
weathered  commercial  ephemera  is  found. 

A  turning  point  in  Holzer's  art  occurred  in  1982,  when,  through 
the  auspices  of  the  Public  Art  Fund,  the  Truisms  were  broadcast  on  the 
Spectacolor  electronic  signboard  in  New  York's  Times  Square.  Situated  in  the 
midst  of  the  world's  most  famous  site  for  electronic  signage,  Holzer's  art 
was  a  jarring  intervention  into  the  more  mundane  flow  of  news  reports  and 
seductive  commercial  messages.  From  that  point  forward,  electronic 
technology  became  a  key  medium  for  her  work,  both  as  an  aesthetic  device 
and  as  a  subject  of  investigation. 

Holzer's  award-winning  installation  at  the  1990  Venice  Biennale, 
for  which  Untitled  was  first  created,  offers  a  summation  of  the  artist's  work 
to  that  point.  Two  antechambers,  situated  on  opposite  sides  of  the  rotunda 
of  the  U.S.  Pavilion,  were  installed  with  marble  benches  lining  the 
perimeters  of  the  rooms  and  diamond-patterned  marble  floors;  both  the 
benches  and  the  floors  were  inscribed  with  various  texts  by  the  artist. 


These  antechambers  led  to  two  additional  rooms,  which  were  flooded  by 
the  searing  lights  of  multicolored  LED  signs  affixed  to  the  walls.  She  likens 
the  reflective  surfaces  of  the  marble  floors  to  the  waters  of  Venice,  and 
explains,  "The  idea  for  the  antechambers,  with  my  texts  on  the  floors, 
came  from  the  old  doge  palaces,  where  you  waited  for  your  fate  to  be 
decided.  And  my  texts  about  life  and  death  — I  know  that  sounds 
pretentious,  but  that's  what  my  work's  always  been  about— fit  right  into 
that  worried  atmosphere.'" 

Untitled  is  the  most  lively  and  least  brooding  of  the  rooms  in  the 
original  installation.  Eleven  horizontal  LED  signs  are  situated  on  the  far  wall 
as  one  enters  the  room,  and  are  flanked  by  another  five  horizontal  signs  on 
each  side  wall.  The  work  brings  together  selections  from  earlier  projects  by 
the  artist— Truisms,  Inflammatory  Essays,  The  Living  Series  (1980-82),  The 
Survival  Series  (1983-85),  Under  a  Rock  (1985-86),  Laments  (1988-89),  and 
Child  Text  (1989-1990)  — programmed  in  English,  French,  German,  Italian, 
and  Spanish.  A  veritable  Tower  of  Babel,  where  dissonant  languages  and 
statements  clash  in  a  cacophony  of  color,  the  installation  offers  an  overview 
of  Holzer's  different  voices,  from  her  scathing  meditations  on  everyday  life 
(such  us  abuse  of  power  comes  as  no  surprise)  to  more  reflective  expositions 
(for  example,  if  you're  considered  useless  no  one  will  feed  you  any  more).  The 
images  of  the  signs  mirrored  in  the  highly  polished  floors  (in  the  current 
exhibition  the  floor  is  wood,  rather  than  the  marble  surface  of  the  Biennale 
installation)  creates  a  state  of  suspension  or  dislocation,  enveloping  viewers 
in  a  sea  of  light  and  language. 

1.  Jenny  Holzer,  quoted  in  Stephen  Henry  Maddoff,  "Venice:  Site  Specific,"  Art  News  89, 
no.  7  (September  1990),  p.  177. 

Matthew  Drutt 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C  ATA  L  0  G  U  E  S 


jenny  HoLzer  was  born  in  1950  in 
Gallipolis,  Ohio.  She  received  a 
Bachelor  of  Fine  Arts  in 
printmaking  and  painting  from 
Ohio  University,  Athens,  in  1972, 
and  in  1975,  she  entered  the 
Master  of  Fine  Arts  painting 
program  at  the  Rhode  Island 
School  of  Design.  While  there,  she 
began  to  introduce  language  into 
her  work.  Holzer  moved  to  New 
York  after  earning  her  degree  at 
R.I.S.D.  in  1977,  and  enrolled  in 
the  Whitney  Museum  of  American 
Art's  Independent  Study  Program. 
That  year,  she  created  her  first  all- 
text  works,  the  Truisms  series, 
printing  them  on  paper,  which  she 
pasted  up  anonymously  around 
the  city. 

Holzer  has  been  the  recipient  of 
several  important  awards, 
including  the  Blair  Award, 
presented  by  the  Art  Institute  of 
Chicago,  1982,  and  the  award  for 
best  pavilion  at  the  Venice 
Biennale,  1990. 

In  addition  to  the  numerous  solo 
and  group  exhibitions  in  which  her 
work  has  appeared,  Holzer  has 
created  many  public  projects, 
among  them  a  Truisms  display  on 
the  Spectacolor  Board  in  Times 
Square  in  1982,  sponsored  by  the 
Public  Art  Fund,  and  a  series  of 
public  spots  for  MTV  in  1989.  She 
has  also  published  several  books, 
including  A  Little  Knowledge, 
1979;  Black  Book,  1980;  Hotel 
(with  Peter  Nadin),  1980;  Living 
(with  Nadin),  1980;  Eating  Friends 
(with  Nadin),  1981;  Eating  Through 
Living  (with  Nadin),  1981;  and 
Truisms  and  Essays,  1983. 


pages  16-17:  Jenny  Holzer, 
Untitled,  1990.  Three-color  LED 
signs;  ten  units,  each  .14  x  6.1  x 
.1  m;  eleven  units,  each  .24  x 
4.47  x  .11  m;  installation  area 
variable,  approximately  6.45  x 
10  m.  Collection  of  Morton  and 
Marlene  Meyerson. 


INDIVIDUAL 
EXHIBITIONS 

Jenny  Holzer:  Signs.  Des  Moines: 
Des  Moines  Art  Center,  1986. 

Jenny  Holzer:  Signs  and  Benches. 
Brooklyn:  Brooklyn  Museum,  1988. 

Jenny  Holzer:  Messages.  London: 
Institute  of  Contemporary  Arts, 
1988. 

Jenny  Holzer.  New  York:  Solomon 
R.  Guggenheim  Museum,  1989. 

The  Venice  Installation.  Buffalo, 
N.Y.:  Albright-Knox  Art  Gallery, 
1991. 

Jenny  Holzer.  Mito,  Japan: 
Contemporary  Art  Center,  Art  Tower 
Mito,  1994. 


GROUP 
EXHIBITIONS 

Jenny  Holzer,  Cindy  Sherman: 
Personae.  Cincinnati:  Contemporary 
Arts  Center,  1986. 

Jenny  Holzer,  Barbara  Kruger. 
Jerusalem:  Israel  Museum,  1986. 

Documenta  8.  Kassel:  Documents, 
1987. 

Digital  Visions:  Computers  in  Art. 
Syracuse,  N.Y.:  Everson  Museum  of 
Art,  1987. 

Committed  to  Print:  Social  and 
Political  Themes  in  Recent 
American  Printed  Art.  New  York: 
Museum  of  Modern  Art,  1988. 

A  Forest  of  Signs:  Art  in  the  Crisis 
of  Representation.  Los  Angeles: 
Museum  of  Contemporary  Art, 
1989. 

Image  World:  Art  and  Media 
Culture.  New  York:  Whitney 
Museum  of  American  Art,  1989. 

Making  Their  Mark:  Women  Artists 
Move  into  the  Mainstream, 
1970-1985.  Cincinnati:  Cincinnati 
Art  Museum,  1989. 


Art  et  Publicite  1890-1990.  Paris: 
Grande  Galerie  and  Centre  Georges 
Pompidou,  1990. 

Culture  and  Commentary:  An 
Eighties  Perspective.  Washington, 
D.C.:  Hirshhorn  Museum  and 
Sculpture  Garden,  Smithsonian 
Institution,  1990. 

High  and  Low:  Modern  Art  and 
Popular  Culture.  New  York: 
Museum  of  Modern  Art,  1990. 

Beyond  the  Frame:  American  Art 
1960-1990.  Tokyo:  Setagaya  Art 
Museum,  1991. 

Dev/7  on  the  Stairs:  Looking  Back 
on  the  Eighties.  Philadelphia: 
Institute  of  Contemporary  Art, 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  1991. 

Metropolis.  Berlin:  Walter-Gropius- 
Bau,  1991. 

The  Words  and  the  Images. 
Utrecht:  Centraal  Museum,  1991. 

Allegories  of  Modernism: 
Contemporary  Drawing.  New  York: 
Museum  of  Modern  Art,  1992. 

Territorium  Artis.  Bonn:  Kunst-  und 
Ausstellungshalle  der 
Bundesrepublik  Deutschland,  1992. 

Amerikanische  Kunst  im  20. 
Jahrhundert:  Malerei  und  Plastik 
1913-1993.  Berlin:  Martin-Gropius- 
Bau;  Munich:  Prestel,  1993. 

Rosebud:  Jenny  Holzer,  Matt 
Mullican,  Lawrence  Weiner. 
Munich:  Kunstbau  Lenbachhaus 
Miinchen,  1994. 

Transformers.  New  York: 
Independent  Curators  Incorporated, 
1994. 

In  a  Different  Light.  Berkeley: 
University  Art  Museum,  1995. 

Feminin-masculin:  Le  Sens  de  I'art. 
Paris:  Centre  Georges  Pompidou, 
1995- 


19 


_ 


TO 


u 


.10  .  . 
IWA  I 


PIANO-AS     IMAGE     MEDIA,     1995 

Toshio  Iwai's  Piano— As  Image  Media  combines  a  real  grand  piano  with 
virtual  images.  The  player  uses  a  trackball  to  place  luminous  points, 
representing  musical  notes,  on  a  horizontal  projection  plane.  The  points  — 
MIDI  signals  that  control  the  piano's  strings— travel  slowly  toward  the 
keyboard.  Accelerating  shortly  before  they  reach  their  goal,  they  generate 
musical  notes  as  they  appear  to  hit  the  keys.  Simultaneously,  a  computer- 
generated  image  rises  from  each  "struck"  key,  projected  by  a  video  beamer 
onto  a  semitransparent  projection  plane  mounted  vertically  above  the 
keyboard.  As  the  sound  fades,  the  illuminated  image  loses  speed  and, 
rotating  slowly,  turns  into  a  starlike  crystal. 

With  all  of  the  piano  keys  freely  accessible  via  the  trackball,  the 
player  can  easily  compose  melodies.  Not  all  melodies  are  possible,  however: 
the  structure  of  the  virtual-manipulation  device  allows  single  notes,  sound 
ornaments,  clusters,  and  bizarre  chords  to  be  produced,  but  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  intentionally  modulate  the  staccato  of  the  sound  explosions,  and 
the  length  of  the  notes  cannot  be  controlled.  There  is  also  no  way  to  play 
melodies  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  counterpoint  and  classical  laws 
of  harmony,  but  "hybrid"  melodies— for  instance,  those  generated  by  rapidly 
firing  the  incandescent  trace,  like  a  handwritten  signature,  onto  the  projection 
plane— can  be  made.  Thus  the  instrument  can  convert  handwriting  into  a 
sound  image,  the  luminous  points  constituting  a  notation  that  conforms  with 
the  laws  of  grammar  or  gesture  rather  than  with  those  of  music. 

Iwai's  declared  goal  is  to  open  up  a  new  field  of  experience  by 
"combining  physical  objects  and  virtual  images,"  a  project  that  has 
particular  significance  "in  a  time  when  the  new  digital  technologies  supplant 
our  physical  experiences  with  virtual,  media-ted  ones."1  This  objective  is 
markedly  different  from  that  of  synesthesia.  The  notion  of  sound  as  a 
synesthetic  medium  is  centuries  old.  It  originated  with  the  Pythagoreans, 
who  translated  musical  chords  into  numerical  proportions,  and  tried  to 
deduct  the  ideal  harmony  of  the  celestial  spheres  from  the  movement  of  the 
planets.  Revived  by  the  Neo-Platonists  during  the  Renaissance,  it  was 
immortalized  in  the  theory  of  the  different  temperaments  of  musical 
expression  (Phrygian,  Lydian,  Mixolydian,  and  so  on).  Nicolas  Poussin, 
among  other  artists,  tried  to  apply  this  theory  to  the  world  of  colors,  an 
endeavor  that  has  continued  to  the  present  day;  Vasily  Kandinsky  was  one 
of  its  most  prominent  advocates,  with  his  idea  of  a  "color  piano"  and  theory 
of  "color  tones,"  which  he  developed  in  the  early  part  of  this  century.  The 
underlying  impulse  of  this  pursuit  has  always  been  the  search  for  a 
universal  world  harmony  that  would  prove  the  divine  nature  of  the  origin  of 
the  cosmos. 

This  is  not  Iwai's  intention.  We  know  that  harmonic  melodies  are 
not  possible  on  his  piano;  indeed,  melody  plays  only  a  secondary  role.  The 


main  purpose  of  Iwai's  piece  is  to  make  the  invisible  processes  of 
technology— which  have  become  incomprehensible  to  us— visible  again,  to 
bring  them  back  into  the  realm  of  the  humanly  perceptible.  This  method, 
which  could  be  called  the  "principle  of  de-involution,"  is  a  theme  that  runs 
through  Iwai's  entire  oeuvre.  In  his  Video  Books  (1984),  for  example, 
television  sequences  were  printed  out  image  by  image  via  a  video  printer, 
and  these  images  were  then  reassembled  into  a  flip  book. 

Iwai's  method  is  only  partly  ironic.  His  work  gives  us  the  chance 
to  perceive  and  experience  things,  and  therefore  it  has  a  humanizing  effect. 
We  begin  to  play  and  to  discover  new  correlations  (like  the  discovery  of 
different  possible  types  of  notation).  As  in  all  successful  interactive 
artworks,  the  skillful  "composition"  of  the  technical  environment  sets  the 
stage  for  the  actions  of  the  observer.  These  "instruments"  do  not  require 
virtuosity— they  invite  us  to  play,  to  leave  behind  the  Homo  sapiens  in  favor 
of  the  Homo  ludens.  This  effect  might  be  the  cause  of  Piano— As  Image 
Media's  strangely  sympathetic  air,  which  makes  us  hear  a  scherzo  in  even 
the  most  chaotic  staccato  of  sounds,  and  which  invests  the  cold  splendor  of 
its  blooming  light  crystals  with  warmth. 

1.  Toshio  Iwai,  "Piano— As  an  Image  Media,"  in  MultiMediale  4,  exh.  cat.  (Karlsruhe:  ZKM, 
1995).  P-  39- 

Oliver  Seifert 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 

EXHIBITION 

CATALOGUES 


Toshio  Iwai  was  born  in  1962  in 
Aichi,  Japan.  He  studied  sculpture 
and  mixed-media  art  at  the 
University  of  Tsukuba,  Japan, 
graduating  with  a  Master  of  Arts 
degree  in  1987.  In  1992,  he  was 
artist-in-residence  at  the 
Exploratorium  in  San  Francisco, 
and  in  1994-95  was  a  guest  artist 
at  ZKM  Karlsruhe. 

Iwai  created  his  first  experimental 
animations  in  1981,  before  turning 
to  precinematic  devices  like  flip 
books  and  zoetropes.  Beginning  in 
1986,  he  became  interested  in 
computer  games.  In  Japan,  he  is 
well  known  not  only  as  a  media 
artist,  but  also  for  the  computer- 
generated  virtual  sets  he  made  in 
1990-91  for  the  science  program 
Einstein  on  Fuji  Television. 

Iwai  has  participated  in  numerous 
international  festivals  and 
exhibitions,  including  Images  du 
Futur,  Montreal,  1987;  Artec, 
Nagoya,  1989;  EXPO  '92,  Seville, 
1992;  Interactive  Media  Festival, 
Los  Angeles,  1994;  MultiMediale  4, 
ZKM  Karlsruhe,  1995;  and  Le 
Biennale  d'Art  Contemporain  de 
Lyon,  1995-96.  In  1994.  ZKM 
Karlsruhe  organized  a  survey 
exhibition  of  his  works  entitled 
Toshio  Iwai,  which  traveled  to 
Helsinki  and  Amsterdam. 


INDIVIDUAL 
EXHIBITIONS 

Toshio  Iwai:  Exhibition-Machine  for 
Trinity.  Tokyo:  Laforet  Museum 
Espace;  Fukuoka:  Art  Gallery 
Artium,  1990. 

Toshio  Iwai.  Karlsruhe:  ZKM,  1994. 


GROUP 
EXHIBITIONS 

Tracing  Time.  San  Francisco: 
Exploratorium,  1991. 

MultiMediale  4.  Karlsruhe:  ZKM, 
1994. 

Le  Biennale  d'Art  Contemporain  de 
Lyon:  Installation,  Cinema,  Video, 
Informatique.  Lyon:  Musee  d'Art 
Contemporain,  1995. 

Phantasmagoria:  Pre-Cinema  to 
Virtuality.  Sydney:  Museum  of 
Contemporary  Art,  1996. 


23 


%~ 


5E3 


M 


A  R  I 


I 


LES     LARMES     D'ACIER,     1987 

Marie-Jo  Lafontaine  is  best  known  for  her  video  installations,  but  her  artistic 
point  of  departure  was  painting.  Inspired  by  the  work  of  Robert  Ryman  and 
Brice  Marden,  she  began  to  examine  the  material  quality  of  color  when  she 
was  a  student  at  the  Ecole  Nationale  Superieure  d'Architecture  et  des  Arts 
Visuels  "La  Cambre"  in  Brussels.  She  used  dyed  cotton  woven  into  canvas, 
which  was  then  attached  to  stretchers,  to  create  black  monochrome 
paintings.  Iconlike  objects  in  which  color  and  canvas  merge,  these  works 
seem  to  embody  Kazimir  Malevich's  concept  of  essential  painting;  Lafontaine 
applied  Malevich's  metaphysical  ideas  of  expression  to  the  production 
process,  turning  the  medium  itself  into  the  works'  formal  theme.  The 
strongly  emphasized  weave  structure  of  these  paintings  permits  color  and 
texture  to  act  together  as  a  conceptualized  monolithic  unit.  The  subtle 
oscillation  across  borders  of  classification  that  is  already  present  in  these 
works  grew,  in  the  following  years,  into  an  interest  in  all  the  different  forms 
of  visual  art.  She  began  making  multimedia  installations  that  bring  together 
sculpture,  photography,  painting,  and  video. 

Lafontaine's  monumental  video  sculpture  Les  Larmes  d'acier  was 
first  shown  at  Documenta  8  in  Kassel,  Germany,  in  1987.  It  is  the 
continuation  of  a  frequent  theme  in  the  artist's  work— the  contradiction  of 
Western  culture  after  the  demise  of  its  stabilizing  traditions,  exemplified 
here  in  the  pairing  of  Eros  and  Thanatos,  violence  and  passion,  power  and 
pain,  beauty  and  terror.  Three  athletic  young  men— embodiments,  in  their 
physiognomy,  of  cloned  masculinity— are  shown  on  the  installation's  twenty- 
seven  monitors  performing  power-training  exercises.  The  camera  pans  slowly 
across  their  faces;  frozen  into  masks  of  stoic  self-reference,  they  reveal  the 
power  trainers'  determination  to  go  to  the  limit  and  their  attempts  to 
suppress  their  pain.  The  camera  moves  gradually  over  mechanically 
contracting  muscles,  fixing  finally  on  the  steel  skeleton  of  the  weight 
machines,  which  seem  to  govern  the  monotonous  rhythm  of  the  men's 
movements.  Their  bodies  are  naked  and  sculpturelike;  the  machine  appears 
to  replace  the  self.  This  "mechanical  ballet"  of  masculine  bodies  is 
accompanied  by  the  music  of  Vincenzo  Bellini's  Casta  Diva;  the  opera's 
dramatic  intensity  contrasts  with  the  monotony  of  the  physical  exercise  and 
acts  simultaneously  as  a  suggestive  layer.  At  its  climactic  moment,  the 
music's  inner  dynamic  provides  an  exciting,  contrapuntal  echo  to  the  men's 
weight-lifting  routine.  As  the  voice  of  Maria  Callas  reaches  its  highest  pitch, 
the  athlete  bites  his  lower  lip  in  response  to  his  effort;  agony  and  ecstasy 
converge,  the  pain  of  exertion  turns  into  lust  for  exertion,  agony  is 
transformed  into  passion.  The  emotional  expressiveness  of  the  singing 
compounds  the  appearance  of  strength  of  the  men's  bodies,  turning  them 
into  symbols  of  power;  what  enables  the  body  to  endure  the  regimen  of 
discipline  and  pain,  the  work  suggests,  also  enables  it  to  exercise  male 
dominance.  When  accompanied  by  the  passionate  sound  of  a  female  voice, 
exercising  on  the  machine  becomes  a  surrogate  for  love-making.  In  the 
tension  between  the  severe,  formal  rigidity  of  the  masculine  stance  and  the 
emotional  release  of  the  female  voice,  a  game  of  seduction  unfolds,  staged 
by  Lafontaine  as  an  equally  erotic  and  ideological  theme. 

Les  Larmes  d'acier  plays  a  key  role  in  Lafontaine's  oeuvre, 
because  it  projects  a  complex  constellation  of  ideas  onto  a  simple  surrogate 
action:  under  the  dictate  of  beauty,  man,  machine,  power,  and  sexuality  are 
transmuted  into  a  totalitarian  scheme.  The  music  plays  a  crucial  role,  not 
only  because  of  its  ironic  dismantling  of  empty  pathos,  but  also  because  of 
its  complicity  with  the  entire  composition.  Apollo  mistakes  himself  for 
Dionysus;  and  Narcissus  aspires  to  become  the  Ubermensch;  we  watch  the 


TA  I  N  E 


stages  of  this  metamorphosis  on  the  screens,  where,  the  artist  confesses, 
she  is  playing  with  our  "most  extreme  fantasies": 

1.  the  double  meaning  of  the  objectified  body  and  the  eroticized  machine:  a 
myth  of  male  sexuality; 

2.  the  double  meaning  of  statue  and  model:  the  identification  with  an 
absolute  aesthetics,  which  has  become  a  myth  itself; 

3.  the  affront  of  escalating  violence;  a  borderline  situation,  where  pleasure 
and  play  turn  into  a  horrible  outburst  of  passion; 

4.  the  acceleration  of  this  rage  to  the  point  where  sexual  power  surrenders 
to  the  dangers  of  a  glorious  transgression.' 

Les  larmes  d'acier,  or  "tears  of  steel,"  was  the  name  given  to  the  German 
bombs  that  rained  upon  Europe  in  World  War  II.  (Evocative  of  the  suffering 
caused  by  the  bombing,  the  phrase  also  sounds  similar  to  les  armes 
d'acier,  or  "arms  of  steel.")  With  this  reference  in  mind,  it  soon  becomes 
clear  that  the  young  trainers— who  perform  a  ritual  of  power,  absorbed  in 
their  labor  in  the  service  of  beauty— have  a  disturbing  resemblance  to  the 
battle-hardened  heroes  of  the  National  Socialist  sculptor  Arno  Breker  and 
the  Rassemenschen  of  Leni  Riefenstahl's  films.  But  despite  all  its  intentional 
historical-political  references,  Les  Larmes  d'acier  is  not  a  political  manifesto. 
Lafontaine  challenges  the  stigmatized  ideal  of  heroic  strength  and  beauty, 
while  alluding  to  our  fascination  with  terror.  The  athlete-turned-machine 
finally  collapses  under  the  sound  of  air-raid  sirens,  as  the  pose  of 
dominance  surrenders  to  the  ideology  it  has  created.  In  those  moments 
where  the  music's  power  does  not  overcome  the  ideological  hubris  but 
rather  mocks  it  in  feigned  reflection,  the  ritual  performed  by  the  three 
athletes  is  reduced  to  an  empty  mannerism. 

By  evoking  the  suggestive  vortex  of  collective  repressions  and 
ideological  taboos  in  her  installations,  Lafontaine  touches  upon  similar 
issues  to  those  treated  by  Anselm  Kiefer  and  Gerhard  Merz.  With  its 
monumental  architecture,  and  the  impression  of  sacredness  this  lends  to  its 
video  images,  Les  Larmes  d'acier  is  also  a  commentary  on  the  idea  of  the 
Gesamtkunstwerk.  "This  time,"  states  Lafontaine,  "the  monochrome 
seduction  of  all  the  previous  installations  is  fully  realized  and  serves  as  a 
protection."  Embedded  in  a  construction  supported  by  gigantic  buttresses, 
the  layout  of  the  monitors  repeats  the  triptych  configuration  of  an 
altarpiece;  the  installation  criticizes  both  monumentality  and  monism 
through  this  juxtaposition.  The  work's  references  to  Gothic  cathedrals  and 
expressionistic  cinema  architecture  represent  the  helpless,  pathetic  attempt 
to  build  an  isolated  and  autonomous  cultural  prerogative  from  the 
ideological  "remnants  of  beauty,"  nature  and  culture  being  abused  in  the 
construction  of  a  "great  ideal."  Because  of  its  inherent  tendency  to  eliminate 
differences  and  its  propensity  for  totalitarian  excesses,  the  striving  for 
absolute  perfection  is  becoming  ever  more  violent,  transforming  men's 
bodies  into  unshaped  masses  of  flesh  through  the  extreme  exaltation  of 
ideal  human  proportions.  Lafontaine  brings  this  inclination  to  full  fruition  in 
the  rhetoric  of  the  work's  different  mediums  and  the  gender  roles  it 
describes.  Her  ant\-Gesamtkunstwerk  visualizes  how  barbarism  began  with 
beauty's  arrogant  emancipation. 

1.  Marie-Jo  Lafontaine,  "Les  Larmes  d'acier,"  in  Documenta  8,  exh.  cat.  (Kassel:  Documenta, 
1987),  vol.  2,  p.  140. 

Ursula  Frohne 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C  ATA  L  0  G  U  E  S 


pages  24-25:  Marie-Jo  Lafontaine, 
Les  Larmes  d'acier  (Tears  of 
Steel),  1987.  Six-channel  video 
and  one-channel  sound 
installation,  approximately 
20  minutes,  black  and  white, 
3-33  x  7.75  x  2.7  m.  ZKM/Center 
for  Art  and  Media  Karlsruhe, 
On  permanent  loan  from  the  Land 
Baden  Wurttemberg. 


Marie-Jo  Lafontaine  was  born  in 
1950  in  Antwerp,  Belgium.  From 
1975  to  1979,  she  studied  at  the 
Ecole  Nationale  Superieure 
d'Architecture  et  des  Arts  Visuels 
"La  Cambre"  in  Brussels. 

In  1977,  she  was  awarded  the  Prix 
de  la  Jeune  Peinture  Beige,  and  in 

1979,  the  Prix  de  la  Critique.  Since 

1980,  she  has  been  integrating 
video  into  her  sculptures  and 
environments.  She  won  the  Grand 
Prix  de  la  Litterature  Argielienne 
de  Pierre  Restany  in  1981,  and  the 
Meatball  Video  Award  the  following 
year.  She  received  a  1985  grant 
from  the  Institute  of  Arts  and 
Humanities  in  Boston,  and  in  1986 
was  presented  with  a  fiacre 
stipend  from  the  French  Ministry  of 
Culture.  In  1990,  she  was  a  guest 
professor  at  the  Sommerakademie 
in  Salzburg,  Austria,  and  since 
1992,  she  has  been  a  professor  of 
sculpture  and  multimedia  at  the 
Staatliche  Hochschule  fur 
Gestattung,  Karlsruhe. 

Solo  exhibitions  of  Lafontaine's 
work  have  been  held  at  the 
Fruitmarket  Gallery,  Edinburgh, 
and  Whitechapel  Art  Gallery, 
London,  1989;  and  Salzburger 
Kunstverein,  1990.  Her  work  has 
appeared  in  many  group 
exhibitions,  including  the  Biennale 
de  Paris,  1980,  and  Documenta, 
Kassel,  Germany,  1987. 


INDIVIDUAL 
EXHIBITIONS 

Des  Jeux  pour  rejouir  le  regard  des 
dieux.  Marseille:  Musee  Cantini, 
1986. 

A  las  cinco  de  la  tarde.  Hannover: 
Sprengel  Museum,  1986. 

L'lnterdit  Desire.  Bourg-en-Bresse: 
Musee  de  Brou,  1987. 

Marie-jo  Lafontaine.  Los  Angeles: 
Museum  of  Contemporary  Art, 
1988. 

Museum  fur  Gegenwartskunst 
Basel:  Marie-jo  Lafontaine:  Les 
Larmes  d'acier.  Basel:  Offentliche 
Kunstsammlung,  1988. 

Marie-Jo  Lafontaine.  Hamburg: 
Weisses  Haus,  1989. 

Marie-Jo  Lafontaine.  London: 
Whitechapel  Art  Gallery; 
Edinburgh:  Fruitmarket  Gallery, 
1989. 

Passio.  Salzburg:  Salzburger 
Kunstverein,  1990. 

Marie-Jo  Lafontaine.  Munich:  W. 
Storms,  1991. 

Marie-Jo  Lafontaine.  Deventer,  The 
Netherlands:  Bergkirche  Kunst, 
1991. 

History  Is  Against  Forgiveness. 
Brussels:  Goethe  Institut,  1992. 

Wer,  wenn  ich  schriee,  hdrte  mich 
denn  aus  der  Engel  Ordnungen. 
Kassel,  1993. 

Savoir  retenir  et  fixer  ce  qui  est 
sublime.  Long  Beach:  California 
State  University  Art  Museum,  1994. 

Jeder  Engel  ist  schrecklich. 
Oberhausen,  Germany:  Gasometer, 
1994. 


GROUP 
EXHIBITIONS 

Documenta  8.  Kassel:  Documenta, 
1987. 

Arbeit  in  Geschichte  -  Geschichte 
in  Arbeit.  Hamburg:  Kunsthaus  und 
Kunstverein,  1988. 

Video-Skulptur:  Retrospektiv  und 
Aktuell,  1963-1989.  Cologne: 
Kolnischer  Kunstverein  and 
DuMont  Kunsthalle,  1989. 

Wiener  Diwan.  Vienna:  Museum 
des  20.  jahrhunderts,  1989. 

Zur  Sache  Selbst.  Wiesbaden: 
Kunstmuseum,  1990. 

The  Readymade  Boomerang: 
Certain  Relations  in  Twentieth 
Century  Art:  The  Eighth  Biennale  of 
Sydney.  Sydney:  Biennale  of 
Sydney,  1990. 

MultiMediale  2.  Karlsruhe:  ZKM, 
1991. 

Kunst  Videnskab.  Copenhagen: 
Charlottenborg,  1992. 

Moving  Image:  Electronic  Art. 
Karlsruhe:  ZKM;  Munich  and 
Stuttgart:  Oktagon,  1992. 

Feuer,  Wasser,  Erde,  Luft:  Die 
vier  Elemente.  Hamburg: 
Deichtorhallen,  1993. 

Retrospectives  Installations  Videos. 
Antwerp:  MUHKA,  1993. 

Philips  Electronic  Art.  Berlin:  I  FA, 
1993- 

Confrontation.  Brussels:  Musee 
d'lssel,  1994. 

Himmel  und  Hblle.  Helsinki: 
Museum  of  Contemporary  Art, 
1995- 

Ich  Phoenix.  Oberhausen: 
Gasometer,  1996. 


27 


TO* 


JTR 


VIDEO     SURVEILLANCE     PIECE     (PUBLIC 
ROOM,     PRIVATE     ROOM),     1969-70 

Defying  the  conventions  of  traditional  artistic  practice,  Bruce  Nauman  has 
worked  in  almost  every  conceivable  medium  since  1965.  In  mixed-media  and 
neon  sculptures,  photographs,  films,  and  videos,  he  has  engaged  in  an 
examination  of  the  self,  using  language  and  the  body  to  ruminate  upon 
issues  of  anxiety,  constraint,  and  aggression.  Like  Man  Ray  and  Marcel 
Duchamp,  whose  works  are  sources  of  inspiration,  Nauman  has  produced 
"unfinished"  artworks  that  depend  on  a  viewer  for  completion;  they  pose 
existential  questions  of  meaning  and  comprehension  inspired  by  the  artist's 
interest  in  the  writings  of  Ludwig  Wittgenstein. 

Video  Surveillance  Piece  (Public  Room,  Private  Room)  consists  of 
two  spaces.  The  "Private  Room"  is  an  enclosed  space  containing  no  entrance,  in 
which  a  monitor  sits  in  one  corner  and  a  video  camera  is  suspended 
diagonally  across  from  it.  The  "Public  Room"  is  the  same  size  as  the  Private 
Room,  with  a  similar  configuration;  in  this  space,  the  camera  sits  on  the  floor 
and  the  monitor  is  suspended,  and  an  opening  allows  the  viewer  to  enter.  The 
cameras  in  both  spaces  sweep  in  a  horizontal  arc,  relaying  their  images  to 
the  monitor  in  the  other  room;  what  the  camera  sees  in  the  Private  Room 
appears  on  the  monitor  in  the  Public  Room  and  vice  versa. 

Nauman's  installation  suggests  the  way  in  which  video's 
increasingly  ubiquitous  presence  in  everyday  life  has  begun  to  shift  the 
balance  between  privacy  and  the  observation  of  behavior.  By  turning  the 
viewer  into  the  subject  of  the  camera's  gaze,  the  work  creates  a  sense  of 
discomfort  and  insecurity  in  relation  to  the  experience  of  space.  Like  other 
video  works  of  the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s,  such  as  those  by  Ant  Farm,  it 
also  explores  the  role  of  the  mass  media  as  an  apparatus  of  the  state. 

Video  Surveillance  Piece  (Public  Room,  Private  Room)  brings 
together  two  kinds  of  information  — physical  and  intellectual  — and  places 
them  in  a  strained  relationship.  The  Private  Room,  a  real  space,  is  turned 
into  a  kind  of  imaginary  one;  viewers  must  complete  the  picture  of  it  in 
their  minds  from  the  partial  information  they  are  offered  by  the  video  feed. 
Moreover,  the  image  that  viewers  see  on  the  monitor  in  the  Public  Room  is 
of  a  space  into  which  they  can  enter  only  by  having  their  image  broadcast 
into  it.  These  various  levels  of  observation  and  withholding  of  information 
reinforce  the  work's  disarming  atmosphere,  foregrounding  a  dystopic  rather 
than  Utopian  view  of  technology. 

Matthew  Drutt 


RAW     MATERIAL:     BRRR,     1990 

A  moment  of  surprise,  followed  by  irritation,  then  aggression,  and  finally 
the  desire  to  withdraw— this  is  the  usual  response  to  Bruce  Nauman's  Raw 
Material  installations.  As  in  other  works  from  this  series,  the  elements  of 
Raw  Material:  Brrr  are  organized  to  provoke  a  strong  emotional  reaction.  On 
two  stacked  monitors,  and  on  a  large-scale  projection  on  an  adjacent  wall 
of  the  same  room,  the  same  face  — that  of  the  artist— appears  in  three 
different  recorded  versions.  In  all  three  videos  its  only  action  is  to  utter 
"brrr,"  with  its  lips  pressed  together  and  eyes  closed.  The  face  appears 
sideways,  rotated  ninety  degrees  from  its  usual  orientation  on  TV  screens; 
this  introduces  a  slightly  alienating  effect,  which  is  joined  by  more  irritating 
elements  after  longer  observation.  The  face  trembles  with  the  effort  to 
produce  sounds;  its  facial  expression— with  its  childishly  pursed  lips, 
repeatedly  uttering  the  same  annoying  and  numbing  "brrr"  — turns  into  a 


grotesque  mask  of  human  regression.  Equally  obtrusive,  sound  and  image 
are  closely  interwoven,  each  intensifying  the  other  to  such  a  degree  that 
they  project  a  monumental  presence.  An  aggressive  inferno  grows  in  the 
mind  of  the  observer  as  the  compulsive  actions  of  this  person  become 
physically  and  psychically  tormenting. 

Without  any  explanatory  accessories,  the  person  who  appears  in 
the  videos  seems  to  be  caught  up  in  a  form  of  autism,  and  the  serial 
repetition  of  screens  in  the  installation  compounds  the  confrontational  effect 
of  the  video  recordings.  In  contrast  to  the  clearly  functional  character  of  the 
installation's  mechanical  equipment,  which  seems  almost  to  be  transformed 
into  stage  props,  his  foolish  actions  seem  an  embodiment  of  the 
unconscious.  This  scenic  framework  lets  the  observer  become  aware  of  his 
or  her  voyeuristic  role,  but  it  also  implicates  the  viewer  as  an  actor  within  a 
play  reminiscent  of  Samuel  Beckett's  Endgame. 

The  disturbing  grimace  of  the  face  in  Raw  Material:  Brrr  is  similar 
to  the  features  of  some  of  the  wax  heads  Nauman  used  in  earlier  works, 
and  quite  possibly  derives  from  the  make-up  mask  of  a  clown,  the  theme  of 
an  earlier  series  of  video  installations.  Although  Nauman  makes  intentional 
reference  to  the  cliched  nature  of  the  clown's  pain-stricken  face,  it  cannot 
be  read  entirely  as  parody  in  his  work;  these  clown  figures,  like  the 
grimacing  expression  in  Raw  Material:  Brrr,  need  to  be  interpreted  in  both  a 
literal  and  a  metaphorical  sense.  Almost  like  successors  of  the  clownish 
parts  in  Beckett's  plays,  they  reproduce  and  parody,  in  their  bare,  self- 
indulgent  actions,  the  plainly  comic  aspects  of  their  character.  In  one  sense, 
they  can  be  understood  simply  as  a  structural  phenomenon,  but  they  also 
impersonate  an  uncertainty  of  human  experience:  that  of  being  lost  in  an 
impersonal  and  transindividual  codification.  The  clowns  personify  fear, 
exposure,  aggression,  and  suffering— the  socio-anthropological  categories 
that  are  the  "raw  material"  of  Nauman's  installations. 

As  a  vital  part  of  the  raw  material  of  human  expressive  behavior, 
language  plays  a  significant  role  in  Nauman's  artistic  repertoire.  Nauman 
sees  language  as  a  combination  of  sign  systems  and  patterns  of  behavior, 
functioning  as  a  variable  continuum  beyond  the  strictly  verbal.  His  earlier 
neon  sculptures,  with  their  laconic  litanies,  assert  that  language  itself  is  a 
plastic  material.  In  his  Raw  Material  installations,  Nauman  began  to 
incorporate  the  sound  of  language  as  well.  By  emphasizing  sound  vibrations, 
he  turned  language  into  both  a  material  and  a  physical  experience.  In  Raw 
Material:  Brrr,  he  operates  with  a  hieroglyphic,  compressed  form  of 
language  — the  "raw  material"  of  linguistic  communication  — that  contrasts 
with  the  concise  messages  of  the  earlier  works,  such  as  "Speak  and  Die/Lie 
and  Die/Hear  and  Die."  If  we  take  the  minutely  organized  word  games  of 
Nauman's  neon  sculptures  and  apply  them  to  the  title  of  Raw  Material:  Brrr, 
we  can  rearrange  the  letters  of  "raw,"  treating  it  as  an  anagram  of  "war"; 
"brrr"  can  also  be  interpreted  as  the  garbled  pronunciation  or  regressive 
stammering  of  the  first  letters  of  the  artist's  given  name,  Bruce.  What  the 
title  implies  through  this  latent  double  meaning  becomes  more  legible  in 
terms  of  the  complete  "text"  of  the  installation.  The  seemingly  harmless 
image  of  the  infantile  man  and  his  utterances,  which  appear  meaningless  at 
first,  turn,  in  their  obsessive  repetitiveness,  into  an  act  of  potential 
aggression.  Like  the  litanies  of  Nauman's  sober  neon  sculptures,  the 
primitive  expressive  behavior  here  culminates  in  an  emotional  confrontation, 
as  the  man's  detonations  of  sound  begin  to  reveal  deeper  connotations.  By 
attacking  the  viewer's  emotions  while  yet  appealing  to  archaic  levels  of 
perception,  the  work  gives  meaning  to  its  apparently  nonsensical  sounds. 


29 


*IIIIHMH' 


M»t*»Mn»m*mMU4>»um»»Mmn*mn* nw>tm 


page  28:  Bruce  Nauman,  Video 
Surveillance  Piece  (Public  Room, 
Private  Room),  1969-70.  Two  video 
cameras  on  oscillating  mounts,  and 
two  video  monitors,  installed  in 
two  rooms;  installation  area 
variable.  Solomon  R.  Guggenheim 
Museum,  New  York,  Panza 
Collection  92.4167. 

left  and  following  page:  Bruce 
Nauman,  Raw  Material:  Brrr,  1990. 
Two-channel  video  and  two- 
channel  sound  installation, 
60  minutes,  color;  installation  area 
variable,  approximately  7.5  x 
6.25  m.  ZKM  Center  for  Art  and 
Media  Karlsruhe. 


/ 


In  1965,  when  Nauman  started  his  career,  Minimalism  was 
becoming  increasingly  influential  in  the  art  world.  Instead  of  formulating  his 
adherence  or  opposition  to  this  movement,  Nauman  chose  the  path  of  self- 
confrontation  in  the  isolation  of  his  studio.  The  title  "Withdrawal  as  an  Art 
Form,"  which  he  chose  for  one  of  a  series  of  "notes  and  projects"  published 
in  Artforum  in  1970,  is  an  indication  of  his  determination  to  use  self- 
referential  methods  and  of  his  retreat  into  the  metaphorical  vacuum  of  the 
studio.  At  that  early  stage,  Nauman  already  understood  his  personal 
experiences  to  be  founded  on  collective  patterns  of  perception  and  reaction. 
Based  on  this,  it  can  be  said  that  individuality  is  a  concrete  manifestation 
of  a  greater  totality,  and  that  every  individual  action  can  be  interpreted  on  a 
more  universal  level.  Nauman  began  to  use  his  body  as  a  medium  to 
communicate  ideas,  documenting  his  actions,  without  aesthetic  or  narrative 
references,  in  photography,  film,  and  video.  With  these  technological 
extensions,  he  undertook  a  systematic  exploration  of  self-consciousness 
through  self-observation,  as  in  his  Video  Surveillance  Piece  {Public  Room, 
Private  Room)  (1969-70).  In  marked  contrast  to  public  performance  — a 
predominant  artistic  practice  of  the  time  — Nauman  used  his  video  camera  in 
the  privacy  of  his  studio  to  film  a  series  of  daily  routines,  supplementing  it 
regularly  to  create  a  type  of  encyclopedia  of  human  behavior.  In  the  mid- 
1980s,  Nauman  began  to  experiment  more  rigorously  with  the  plastic 
possibilities  of  video.  In  1987,  he  started  projecting  videos  directly  onto 
walls,  using  these  large-scale  projections  together  with  multiple  monitors  set 
up  in  different  parts  of  the  room.  In  these  installations,  including  Raw 
Material:  Brrr,  the  content  of  the  video  images  and  the  formal  composition 
of  the  various  elements  reintroduced  a  theme  from  Nauman's  earlier 
catalogue  of  topics:  the  capacity  of  the  body  and  language  for  social 
communication. 


Nauman  owes  his  precise  artistic  language  primarily  to  his  early 
contact  with  the  work  of  Jasper  Johns.  From  the  wax  casts  of  body  parts  to 
the  words  and  furniture  fragments  that  became  predominant  themes  in 
Nauman's  drawings,  sculptures,  and  installations,  the  intellectual  rigor  of 
Johns's  assemblages  proved  to  be  a  far  more  congenial  source  of  inspiration 
than  the  ironic  detachment  of  Marcel  Duchamp's  surrealist  found  objects. 

Human  and  animal  body  parts,  cast  in  wax  or  aluminum  and 
heaped  into  piles;  grimacing  heads,  suspended  on  wires  from  the  ceiling 
like  macabre  references  to  Alexander  Calder's  mobiles,  or  shown  spinning 
ceaselessly  on  video  monitors;  these  elements  of  Nauman's  earlier  work  are 
no  doubt  related  to  the  head  that  appears  in  Raw  Material:  Brrr.  Caught  in 
an  incurable  fixation  of  self-expression,  it  seems  to  bear  witness  to  the 
overwhelming  inner  conflicts  that  are  carried  out  in  the  unconscious.  Its 
behavior  is  reminiscent  of  a  catatonic's  convulsions  and  involuntary 
contractions,  compulsive  symptoms  that  are  the  result  of  a  psychic 
instability  manifested  as  physical  reactions.  This  form  of  confinement  is 
analogous  to  the  human  subjection  to  patterns  of  behavior  and  perception 
beyond  the  sphere  of  the  individual,  which  Nauman  describes  as 
anthropological  factors.  Despite  his  distanced  artistic  stance  and  his 
dissecting  observation  of  this  existential  predicament,  he  also  places  himself 
in  a  fully  exposed  position  in  this  vivisection  of  the  human  condition.  The 
viewer  might  begin  to  feel  the  emotional  substance  of  Nauman's  work  only 
after  experiencing  dismay  in  reaction  to  its  themes,  but,  nevertheless,  it  is 
this  human  aspect  of  Nauman's  artistic  approach  that  reveals  the  deep 
seriousness  that  runs  through  all  of  his  work. 

Ursula  Frohne 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 

EXHIBITION 

CATALOGUES 


Bruce  Nauman  was  born  in  1941  in 
Fort  Wayne,  Indiana.  From  i960,  he 
studied  mathematics,  physics,  and 
art  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin 
in  Madison,  receiving  a  Bachelor  of 
Arts  degree  in  1964.  He  went  on  to 
study  under  William  T.  Wiley  and 
Robert  Arneson  at  the  University  of 
California  at  Davis,  graduating  with 
a  Master  of  Arts  degree  in  1966. 

In  1964,  Nauman  gave  up  painting 
and  began  working  in  sculpture 
and  performance  art;  he  also 
began  experimenting  with  film.  He 
received  an  Artist  Fellowship  Award 
from  the  National  Endowment  for 
the  Arts  in  1968.  In  1970,  he 
taught  a  spring  course  at  the 
University  of  California  at  Irvine, 
and  in  the  same  year,  he  received 
a  grant  from  the  Aspen  Institute 
for  Humanistic  Studies.  He  was 
awarded  an  Honorary  Doctor  of 
Fine  Arts  degree  from  the  San 
Francisco  Art  Institute  in  1989,  and 
in  1990,  he  received  the  Max 
Beckmann  Preis  from  the  City  of 
Frankfurt. 


In  1972,  the  Los  Angeles  County 
Museum  of  Art  and  the  Whitney 
Museum  of  American  Art,  New 
York,  organized  the  first 
retrospective  exhibition  of 
Nauman's  work.  From  1986  to 
1988,  an  exhibition  of  Nauman's 
drawings  traveled  through 
museums  in  Europe  and  the  United 
States.  Between  1990  and  1992, 
sculptures  and  installations  were 
shown  at  Museum  fur 
Gegenwartskunst,  Basel; 
Stadtische  Galerie,  Frankfurt  am 
Main;  and  Musee  Cantonal  des 
Beaux-Arts,  Lausanne.  The  most 
recent  Nauman  retrospective 
traveled  to  the  Museo  Nacional 
Centra  de  Arte  Reina  Sofia,  Madrid; 
Walker  Art  Center,  Minneapolis;  the 
Museum  of  Contemporary  Art,  Los 
Angeles;  Hirshhorn  Museum  and 
Sculpture  Garden,  Washington, 
D.C.;  and  the  Museum  of  Modern 
Art,  New  York,  from  1993  to  1995. 
The  numerous  group  exhibitions  in 
which  Nauman's  work  has 
appeared  include  Documenta, 
Kassel,  Germany,  1968,  1972, 
1977.  1982,  and  1992;  Tokyo 
Biennale  '70;  Biennale  de  Paris, 
1971;  Venice  Biennale,  1978  and 
1980;  and  Amerikanische  Kunst  im 
20.  Jahrhundert,  Martin-Gropius- 
Bau,  Berlin,  and  Royal  Academy  of 
Arts,  London,  1993. 


Bruce  Nauman.  London: 
Whitechapel  Art  Gallery,  1986. 

Bruce  Nauman:  Prints,  1970-80:  A 
Catalogue  Raisonne.  New  York: 
Castelli  Graphics,  1989. 

Bruce  Nauman:  Skulpturen  und 
Installationen,  1085-1990.  Basel: 
Museum  fiir  Gegenwartskunst; 
Cologne:  DuMont,  1990. 

Bruce  Nauman.  Minneapolis: 
Walker  Art  Center,  1994. 


1987  Biennial  Exhibition.  New  York: 
Whitney  Museum  of  American  Art, 
1987. 

Carnegie  International  1988. 
Pittsburgh:  Museum  of  Art, 
Carnegie  Institute,  1988. 

Zeitlos.  Berlin:  Hamburger 
Bahnhof,  1988. 

Image  World:  Art  and  Media 
Culture.  New  York:  Whitney 
Museum  of  American  Art,  1989. 

L'Art  des  annees  soixante  et 
soixante-dix:  La  Collection  Panza. 
Saint-Etienne,  France:  Musee  d'Art 
Moderne,  1989. 

Video-Skulptur:  Retrospektiv  und 
Aktuell,  1963-1989.  Cologne: 
Kolnischer  Kunstverein  and 
DuMont  Kunsthalle,  1989. 

The  Readymade  Boomerang: 
Certain  Relations  in  Twentieth 
Century  Art:  The  Eighth  Biennale  of 
Sydney.  Sydney:  Biennale  of 
Sydney,  1990. 

Carnegie  International  1991. 
Pittsburgh:  Museum  of  Art, 
Carnegie  Institute,  1991. 

Devil  on  the  Stairs:  Looking  Back 
on  the  Eighties.  Philadelphia: 
Institute  of  Contemporary  Art, 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  1991. 


Dislocations.  New  York:  Museum  of 
Modern  Art,  1991. 

Metropolis-International  Art 
Exhibition  Berlin  1991.  Berlin: 
Martin-Gropius-Bau,  1991. 

Motion  and  Document— Sequence 
and  Time:  Eadweard  Muybridge 
and  Contemporary  American 
Photography.  Andover:  Addison 
Gallery  of  American  Art,  Phillips 
Academy,  1991. 

The  Pleasure  Machine:  Recent 
American  Video.  Milwaukee: 
Milwaukee  Art  Museum,  1991. 

Documenta  9.  Kassel:  Documenta, 
1992. 

Moving  Image:  Electronic  Art. 
Karlsruhe:  ZKM;  Munich  and 
Stuttgart:  Oktagon,  1992. 

Transform:  BildObjektSkulptur  im 
20.  jahrhundert.  Basel: 
Kunstmuseum  Basel  and 
Kunsthalle  Basel,  1992. 

Amerikanische  Kunst  im  20. 
Jahrhundert:  Malerei  und  Plastik 
1913-1993.  Berlin:  Martin-Gropius- 
Bau;  Munich:  Prestel,  1993. 

Gravity  and  Grace:  The  Changing 
Condition  of  Sculpture  1965-1975. 
London:  Hayward  Gallery  and  Arts 
Council  of  Great  Britain,  1993. 

Self/Made  Self/Conscious:  Janine 
Antoni  and  Bruce  Nauman.  Boston: 
Museum  of  Fine  Arts,  1994. 

Le  Biennale  d'Art  Contemporain  de 
Lyon:  Installation,  Cinema,  Video, 
Informatique.  Lyon:  Musee  d'Art 
Contemporain,  1995. 

Feminin-masculin:  Le  Sens  de  I' art. 
Paris:  Centre  Georges  Pompidou, 
1995- 

1965-1975:  Reconsidering  the 
Object  of  Art.  Los  Angeles: 
Museum  of  Contemporary  Art, 
1995- 


33 


NAM     I  II  M  F 

PA  I  K 


34 


PASSAGE,     1986 

It  is  tempting  to  see  Nam  June  Paik's  Passage  as  the  Gates  of  Hell  of  the 
twentieth  century.  The  comparison  to  Auguste  Rodin's  masterwork  might 
seem  surprising,  but  if  one  looks  beyond  the  more  obvious  differences,  the 
similarities  that  lie  beneath  the  surface  become  clear. 

The  main  portal  structure  of  Passage  is  composed  of  old  TV 
cabinets.  The  doors  of  these  outdated  models  are  left  partially  open,  their 
inside  surfaces  covered  with  mysterious  characters  from  various  sources, 
including  prehistoric  rock  engravings,  hieroglyphics,  cuneiform  writing,  and 
Sanskrit,  Syri-Hittite,  and  ancient  Greek  scripts.  Each  of  these  "doorposts" 
consists  of  three  stacked  cabinets,  crowned  by  a  seventeen-inch  Motorola 
set  from  1953.  The  "architrave"  is  a  plain  metal  construction  with  a  1949 
RCA  Victor  chassis  on  either  side,  below  which  round  speakers  are 
mounted  in  the  triangular  spandrels.  In  the  center  of  the  architrave,  in  place 
of  the  escutcheon  of  Baroque  doorways,  is  the  square  screen  of  a 
seemingly  free-floating,  caseless  monitor,  pulsating  with  a  frantic  storm  of 
images  and  framed  by  a  mandala  of  eight  1948  Motorola  chassis  with 
circular  Braun  tubes. 

Everything  in  this  ephemeral  structure,  pieced  together  from  an 
old  collection  of  objects  as  though  by  children,  seems  to  mock  Rodin's  awe- 
inspiring  bronze  doors.  In  place  of  bronze,  the  aes  aeternum,  there  are 
prefabricated  consumer  products,  and  instead  of  sculptural  forms  there  are 
the  immaterial  images  that  flicker  on  the  TV  screens. 

Nevertheless,  these  two  works  have  in  common  movement,  a 
"storm  of  images."  In  discourse  about  media  art,  the  temporal  dimension  of 
pictures  in  motion  is  frequently  cited  as  the  primary  feature  that 
differentiates  the  new  mediums  from  traditional  visual  art.  While  this  is 
undoubtedly  true,  another  important  factor  is  frequently  overlooked:  as 
Thomas  Mann  remarked  in  connection  with  his  novel  about  time,  The  Magic 
Mountain,  it  is  not  at  all  the  case  that  images  exist  only  synchronously,  and 
texts  only  in  a  sequence  of  time,  for  images,  too,  are  "read"  piece  by  piece, 
and  memory  condenses  stories  and  plots  into  one  complete  sensation.  The 
comparison  between  Passage  and  The  Gates  of  Hell  confirms  this 
observation  in  terms  of  still  and  moving  images.  Although  they  are 
physically  static,  it  would  be  absurd  to  say  that  the  dramatic  reliefs  of 
Rodin's  work  are  without  motion.  Their  endless  stream  of  ecstatic  bodies 
threatens  to  overflow  the  surrounding  architecture;  the  planes  vibrate  with  a 
movement  that  is  eternalized,  not  frozen.  In  Paik's  work,  however,  the 
movement  is  just  opposite:  flickering  video  images  chase  each  other, 
creating  a  hypnotic  vortex. 

By  entering  the  deeper  structure  of  the  images,  we  discover 
further  similarities  between  these  two  works.  Using  a  video  synthesizer 
developed  by  Shuya  Abe,  Paik  manipulated  his  video  images  at  the 
electron-beam  level,  then  edited  the  altered  material  into  rapid  image 
cascades.  Each  shot  appears  just  long  enough  to  attract  the  eye,  but  the 
cuts  are  too  fast  to  give  the  viewer  a  clear  understanding  of  the  images. 
Two  different  programs  run  simultaneously  on  the  nine  screens,  overloading 
the  viewer's  attention  as  it  shifts  constantly  between  them.  By  presenting 
the  images  in  this  way,  Paik  made  it  virtually  impossible  for  the  viewer  to 
discern  a  narrative.  Because  of  the  cuts  and  the  simultaneity  of  the 
programs,  the  strict  linear  progress  of  time  breaks  down  and  branches  off— 
perhaps  it  even  stops  altogether. 

Rodin  engaged  in  similar  processes.  Although  his  figures  were 
modeled  by  hand,  almost  none  of  them  was  "original"  in  the  classical 
sense -the  work  is  a  complex  montage,  an  editing  together  of  a  great 


... 
1 .  >  ■  ■  - 


. 


r'TH 


flat?  6^1  uigq 

**  te  wairatf 

<**aa.  as©® 


@  ©I    "W   le  @ 


*a  L  L 


•* 


/ 


> 


V 


- 


■ 


mm*?  tmmim 


< 


- 


l'G&&- 


■ 


* 


• 


■ 


■ 


-  ^ 


v 


■ 


r 


- 


■ 


umwrm 


- 


xJ 


■ 


■ 


f&E  '& 


i 


^="   ■•^  ■  49  ^T"    Zffrm  ^ 


T 


~- 


r  *T*."S!kt    I'fg  ill 

lill 

■k      as.      ML.      OF  *■ 

llll 

ft  ft  ft  1Tb 

&ft  ft  ft 

PPPP 

PPPP 

PPPP 

PPPP 

IH£«II 

pppp 
pppp 

S^k  iM 


Nktb£k    j* 

iflB^'ft  k 

J 

j 

f 

j 

J 

J 

I 

I 

1 

!»■  PT*i ^d  t»i 

I 

y 

\ 

V 

V 

\ 

»I 

J 

■  m  11  ■       i    i 

* 

V^^v        r^r   ^Tn^r      -      ^B^^^^k^^^B^v^^l   ILa^^^« 

,\ 

4 

f 

j 

&i^  ikww  ^9^7 

"jrr 

'> 

f 

1 

T 

I 

^B  MB  ^B  ^K  ^^                              X 
J.>         £*  '^    ft     J            -  — ■  ^^ 

t 

I 

J 

t 

J 

:      «&* 

■ir^i 

_J 

t 

J 

J 

IMS 

lift**! 

f 

f 

»*'  ^B  n     h  ■      ?  **?•  ~n     ^ 

99  /*■ 


/w     «/^ra 


t.     IsmP. 


IS** 


si.* 


riTi*  l^f t 


number  of  distinct  pictorial  inventions  that  Rodin  used  repeatedly 
throughout  his  career.  Even  within  individual  figures,  Rodin  employed  this 
technique  of  combining  disparate  parts.  The  impulse  of  the  human  eye  to 
integrate  the  dislocated  elements  triggers  a  sense  of  movement.  Thus,  the 
artist  achieved  in  the  work  an  eternalized  motion,  which  is  constantly 
revived  by  the  observer. 

The  shape  of  the  two  works  leads  us  to  a  third  comparison.  As 
entranceways,  both  are  strangely  nonfunctional.  Rodin's  gateway  cannot  be 
opened  and,  like  Paik's,  leads  from  nowhere  to  nowhere— they  are  entries 
without  buildings,  relics  of  what  was  once  a  totality.  If  Rodin's  gateway  is 
the  secular  heir  of  the  church  portal,  with  scenes  of  Judgment  Day  gracing 
the  tympanum,  Paik's  Passage  may  be  compared  to  the  torana  of  a  Hindu 
temple,  or  the  entrance  to  a  Buddhist  stupa.  The  arches  of  the  temples  of 
Shiva  often  carry  a  mandala  or  a  lion's  mask,  which  represents  the  sun  and 
serves  as  a  reference  to  time,  death,  and  the  cosmic  fire  that  will  consume 
all;  it  is  therefore  no  coincidence  that  Paik  has  placed  a  TV-mantra  in  that 
very  spot.  In  its  shape  and  materials,  Passage  is  also  evocative  of  Shinto 
structures.  Shinto  shrines  are  usually  situated  in  parks,  which  are  entered 
through  a  torii— a  free-standing  gateway  composed  of  wooden  beams. 
Passage  reflects  the  form  of  the  torii,  and  its  TV  cabinets  are  reminiscent  of 
the  shrines  themselves,  in  which  a  mirror— a  direct  parallel  to  the  TV 
monitor— is  kept  as  a  symbol  of  the  sun  goddess  Amaterasu. 

With  The  Gates  of  Hell,  Rodin  subjectively  recast  Dante's 
description  of  Inferno,  presenting  a  personal,  un-Christian  view  of  worldly 
life  as  eternal  judgment.  Rodin's  subjectivity  contrasts  with  the 
depersonalized  attitude  of  Paik,  but  both  positions  meet  in  their  aspiration 
toward  the  same  goal.  Referring  not  to  Christianity  but  to  the  teachings  — 
and  forms— of  Hinduism,  Zen-Buddhism,  and  even  Taoism,  and  combining 
them  with  the  artistic  ideas  of  the  Fluxus  movement  ("passage"  is,  after  all, 
just  another  word  for  "Fluxus"),  Paik  criticizes  the  linear  logic  of  the  West. 
This  logic  is  manifest  in  the  "one-way  time"  of  television,  which  Paik 
subverts  by  applying  ancient  meditation  techniques  to  the  medium:  as  he 
stated  in  1963,  "To  observe  the  parallel  streams  of  various  independent 
movements  simultaneously  is  a  classical  technique  to  grasp  eternity."'  The 
video  cuts,  the  parallel  display  of  separate  programs,  and  the  resulting 
unpredictability  of  the  visual  processes  in  Passage  all  appear  to  be  a  literal 
translation  of  this  statement,  and  the  cryptic  characters  inside  the  TV 
cabinets  are  further  signs  of  the  departure  from  an  imperative  to  follow 
linear  codes. 

1.  Nam  June  Paik,  "Nachspiel  zur  austellung  des  experimentelien  fernsehens,  Marz  1963,  Galerie 
Parnass,"  in  Paik,  Niederschriften  eines  Kulturnomaden,  Aphorismen,  Briefe,  Texte,  ed.  Edith 
Decker  (Cologne:  DuMont,  1992),  p.  106. 

Oliver  Seifert 


MEG  AT  RON,     1995 

A  pioneer  of  video  art,  Nam  June  Paik  is  widely  considered  to  be  a 
preeminent  figure  in  the  medium's  evolution.  Since  the  early  1960s,  he  has 
manipulated  television  — its  images  and  its  physical  apparatus— in  almost 
every  imaginable  way:  reconfiguring  its  electronic  signal,  emptying  it  of  its 
circuitry,  filling  it  with  different  artifacts,  and  fashioning  it  into  sculptural 
arrangements.  He  belongs  to  the  early  generation  of  artists  whose  work  was 
both  a  celebration  and  a  critique  of  the  language  of  television;  these  artists 
transformed  television  from  a  quotidian  device  of  popular  culture  into  an 
alternative  means  of  artistic  expression. 

Paik's  approach  to  video  is  informed  by  myriad  impulses.  His 
performances  and  video  works  are  characterized  by  satire  and  an  almost 
reckless  will  to  defy  convention,  attitudes  that  are  typical  of  the  works  of 


the  Fluxus  group,  which  counted  Paik  as  a  member.  Treating  the  television 
as  a  kind  of  canvas,  he  has  attempted  to  develop  an  electronic  language 
analogous  to  painting.  He  deploys  an  improvisational  approach  that  has  its 
roots  in  his  musical  training  and  his  appreciation  for  both  classical  and 
avant-garde  compositions.  In  particular,  the  sound  variations  of  John  Cage, 
with  whom  Paik  became  friends  in  the  late  1950s,  have  been  a  long-lasting 
influence,  which  is  evident  in  Paik's  affinity  for  generating  random,  cyclical 
patterns  of  imagery. 

In  his  earliest  experiments  with  cathode-ray  tubes,  Paik  converted 
the  electronic  image  into  an  abstract  form,  distorting  the  television's  signal 
into  wavelike  gyrations  that  could  occasionally  be  manipulated  by  the 
viewer.  By  1968,  Paik  had  developed,  with  his  colleague  Shuya  Abe,  a 
mechanism  called  the  Video  Synthesizer,  a  modified  colorizer  that  turns 
stable  images  into  swirling  explosions  of  form  and  color.  Further 
destabilizing  the  veneer  of  reality  offered  by  the  telecast  image,  Paik  then 
developed  his  characteristic  style  of  splicing  together  images  from  disparate 
sources  in  rapid  and  random  succession,  a  technique  that  is  associated 
today  with  the  aesthetic  of  music  videos. 

Megatron  is  Paik's  most  ambitious  statement  to  date.  Composed 
of  two  adjoining  video  walls— the  rectangular  150-monitor  Megatron  and  the 
square  sixty-five-monitor  Matrix— the  piece  is  fed  by  an  array  of  laser-disc 
players  and  controlled  by  several  computers.  The  two  works  play  off  one 
another,  occasionally  sharing  imagery  but  generally  functioning  as 
independent,  yet  synchronized,  elements.  As  is  characteristic  of  many  of 
Paik's  recent  works,  Megatron  reintroduces  elements  from  earlier  projects, 
such  as  his  Fluxus  performances  and  collaborations  with  Charlotte  Moorman 
and  Joseph  Beuys.  These  works,  which  by  now  have  an  air  of  familiarity  to 
them,  are  placed  in  a  context  rich  with  iconic  images  from  both  Eastern  and 
Western  popular  culture.  At  one  moment,  pictures  from  the  Seoul  Olympic 
Games  flash  across  the  screen;  in  another,  Merce  Cunningham  pirouettes  in 
a  pure,  white  space.  Scenes  of  traditional  Korean  rituals  are  interrupted  by 
David  Bowie  in  concert.  Live  video  dissolves  into  electronic  distortions, 
which  are  punctuated  by  computer-generated  animation.  Images  of  war  and 
of  love  assault  the  viewer,  as  rocket  explosions  are  displaced  by  images  of 
nude  women  reclining  provocatively  on  sofas.  Periodically,  the  entire  wall 
becomes  the  flag  of  Norway,  Iceland,  Japan,  or  any  other  country, 
emphasizing  the  degree  to  which  the  work  celebrates  a  fusion  of 
international  sources.  The  visual  tumult  of  Megatron  is  rivaled  only  by  the 
cacophony  of  its  audio  tracks,  which  bump  and  grind  with  the  cadence  of 
the  video  transformations. 

Megatron  appears  to  constantly  reinvent  itself;  its  cycle  of  images 
seldom  repeats.  To  achieve  this  effect,  Paik  used  sophisticated  digital 
sequencers  that  generate  random  patterns  of  images.  Even  more 
spectacular,  however,  is  Megatron's  technical  breakthrough  of  fusing 
animation  and  live  video.  For  example,  a  large  animated  bird  — a  recurrent 
motif— flies  across  the  monitors,  sometimes  overlaying  video  tracks  and  at 
other  times  incorporating  them  within  its  contours.  Paik  has  juxtaposed 
animation  and  live  video  in  the  past,  and  has  turned  live  video  into  a  barely 
recognizable  distortion,  but  in  Megatron,  video  and  animation  become  one. 

Megatron  is  compelling  in  scale,  scope,  and  technical  prowess.  It 
embodies  an  array  of  contrasting  qualities  that  create  a  kind  of  unity 
through  disunity.  Visually  imposing,  even  confusing,  it  manages  to  create  a 
state  of  hypnotic  serenity,  calling  to  mind  the  wry  image  of  a  Buddha 
seated  in  front  of  a  TV,  a  recurring  image  in  the  artist's  work  and  one  of 
Paik's  most  acerbic  commentaries  on  spectatorship. 

Matthew  Drutt 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C  ATA  L  0  G  U  E  S 


pages  34-35:  Nam  June  Paik, 
Passage,  1986.  Two-channel  video 
installation,  30  minutes,  color, 
3.48  x  4.31  x  .61  m.  ZKM/Center 
for  Art  and  Media  Karlsruhe. 

pages  36-39:  Nam  June  Paik, 
Megatron,  1995  (five  views). 
Eight-channel  video  and  two- 
channel  sound  installation,  color; 
two  parts:  Megatron,  3.62  x 
6.85  x  .6  m;  Matrix,  3.25  x 
3.25  x  .6  m.  Courtesy  of  Holly 
Solomon  Gallery,  New  York. 


Nam  June  Paik  was  born  in  1932  in 
Seoul.  From  1953  to  1956,  he 
studied  music  history,  art  history, 
and  philosophy  at  the  University  of 
Tokyo,  writing  a  dissertation  on 
Arnold  Schonberg.  Subsequently, 
he  went  to  Germany,  continuing 
his  studies  in  music  history  and 
composition  under  Wolfgang 
Fortner  in  Munich  and  at  the 
Hochschule  fur  Musik  in 
Freiburg.  During  1957  and 
1958,  he  took  part  in  the 
Internationalen  Ferienkursen  fiir 
Neue  Musik  in  Darmstadt,  where 
he  met  John  Cage. 

In  1958,  Paik  worked  with 
Karlheinz  Stockhausen  at  the 
Studio  fiir  Elektronische  Musik  of 
the  broadcasting  station  WDR,  and 
in  1962,  he  performed  at  the 
Fluxus  Internationale  Festspiele 
Neuester  Musik  in  Wiesbaden. 
Paik's  first  works  incorporating 
manipulated  TV  sets  were  shown 
at  the  Galerie  Parnass  in 
Wuppertal  in  1963.  In  1964,  he 
moved  to  New  York  City.  Two  years 
later,  he  built  his  first  video 
sculpture,  titled  TV  Cross,  and 
between  1970  and  1971,  together 
with  Shuya  Abe,  he  developed  the 
first  video  synthesizer.  Since  1979, 
Paik  has  been  a  professor  at  the 
Kunstakademie  Dusseldorf.  During 
the  1980s,  for  a  number  of  works, 
including  Good  Morning  Mr. 
Orwell,  he  organized  large-scale 
live  exchanges  of  electronic 
images  between  Europe,  Asia,  and 
the  United  States.  In  1987,  he 
became  a  member  of  the  Akademie 
der  Bildenden  Kunste,  Berlin. 

Paik's  work  has  appeared  in  many 
individual  and  group  exhibitions  in 
the  United  States,  Germany, 
Austria,  Switzerland,  and  Japan. 
Most  recently,  his  work  has  been 
shown  at  the  Kunstmuseum 
Wolfsburg,  Germany,  and  at  the 
Biennale  d'Art  Contemporain  de 
Lyon,  1995-96. 


INDIVIDUAL 
EXHIBITIONS 

Nam  June  Paik:  Video  Works 
1963-88.  London:  Hayward  Gallery, 
1988. 

Nam  June  Paik:  Eine  Kerze. 
Frankfurt:  Portikus,  1989. 

Nam  June  Paik:  La  Fee 
electronique.  Paris:  Musee  d'Art 
Moderne  de  (a  Ville  de  Paris,  1989. 

Nam  June  Paik:  Beuys  Vox 
1061-86.  Seoul:  Won  Gallery  and 
Hyundai  Gallery,  1990. 

Nam  June  Paik:  A  Pas  de  loup—De 
Seoul  a  Budapest.  Seoul:  Won 
Gallery  and  Hyundai  Gallery,  1991. 

Nam  June  Paik:  Video  Time  - 
Video  Space.  Stuttgart:  Cantz, 
1991. 

Nam  June  Paik:  Video  and  Paper 
with  Allen  Ginsberg.  Seoul:  Gallery 
Meegun,  1992. 

Electro-Symbio  Phonics  for 
Phoenix.  Knokke,  Belgium:  Casino 
Knokke,  1992. 

Feedback  and  Feedforth.  Tokyo: 
Watari  Museum  of  Contemporary 
Art,  1993. 

NAM  JUNE  PAIK:  Eine  DATA  base. 
Stuttgart:  Cantz,  1993. 

Artist  as  Nomad.  Venice,  1993. 

The  Electronic  Superhighway:  Nam 
June  Paik  in  the  Nineties.  New 
York:  Holly  Solomon  Gallery  and 
Hyundai  Gallery;  Fort  Lauderdale: 
Fort  Lauderdale  Museum  of  Art, 
1994. 


GROUP 
EXHIBITIONS 

1987  Biennial  Exhibition.  New  York: 
Whitney  Museum  of  American  Art, 
1987. 

Digital  Visions:  Computers  in  Art. 
Syracuse,  N.Y:  Everson  Museum  of 
Art,  1987. 

L'Epoque,  la  mode,  la  morale,  la 
passion  .-Paris:  Centre  Georges 
Pompidou,  1987. 

Video  Art:  Expanded  Forms.  New 
York:  Whitney  Museum  of  American 
Art,  1988. 

Image  World:  Art  and  Media 
Culture.  New  York:  Whitney 
Museum  of  American  Art,  1989. 

Video-Skulptur:  Retrospektiv  und 
Aktuell,  1963-1989.  Cologne: 
Kolnischer  Kunstverein  and 
DuMont  Kunsthalle,  1989. 

Moving  Image:  Electronic  Art. 
Karlsruhe:  ZKM;  Munich  and 
Stuttgart:  Oktagon,  1992. 

Fluxus.  Basel:  Kunsthalle  Basel, 
1994. 

Le  Biennale  d'Art  Contemporain  de 
Lyon:  Installation,  Cinema,  Video, 
Informatique.  Lyon:  Musee  d'Art 
Contemporain,  1995. 


41 


* 


3? .  ;• 

.  .   . 


panorama 


video 


passage 


A 


Li 


'  * » • 


44 


AM  AN 


PASSAGE     SETS/ONE     PULLS     PIVOTS     AT 
THE     TIP     OF     THE     TONGUE,     1994-95 

Bill  Seaman's  Passage  Sets/One  Pulls  Pivots  at  the  Tip  of  the  Tongue  is 
essentially  a  poem  generator.  It  can  be  run  automatically,  or  it  can  be 
controlled  by  the  viewer,  who  may  assemble  poems  from  given  phrases  or 
use  photo  images  to  navigate  through  an  inventory  of  words.  Texts,  still 
images,  and  video  scenes  appear  on  three  adjacent  projection  planes;  music 
plays  and,  from  time  to  time,  a  sonorous  voice  recites  the  mysterious 
poems.  The  viewer  is  connected,  via  a  trackball,  to  the  central  projection 
plane,  on  which  a  grid  of  150  randomly  mixed  image  segments  is  imposed. 
The  images  are  details  lifted  from  eight  panorama  photographs  taken  at 
various  locations  in  Australia.  At  this  point,  the  viewer  has  two  options.  The 
first  is  to  zoom  into  one  of  the  images  and,  by  moving  the  trackball, 
explore  the  full  picture.  Each  image  is  overlayed  with  several  words, 
haikulike  fragments  from  the  collection  of  words  in  the  computer's  memory. 
The  images  are  thus  transformed  into  sites  of  poetry,  and  the  poem 
acquires  an  architectural/spatial  structure.  The  second  option  is  to  access  a 
"poem  generator"  by  clicking  on  a  word  on  the  central  projection  plane. 
Four  lists  appear,  containing  a  total  of  800  text  fragments,  each  of  which  is 
connected  to  one  of  the  150  cropped  images.  Here  again  the  viewer  has  two 
options:  either  choosing  words  from  the  lists  to  create  a  verse,  or  "visiting" 
the  location  of  a  text  fragment  within  its  original  context,  at  which  point  the 
computer  program  returns  to  the  image  that  contains  that  particular  word. 

By  clicking  on  one  of  the  150  photos  (or  on  the  word  "passage"  at 
the  bottom  of  the  projection  plane),  a  specific  video  sequence  on  the 
projection  plane  on  the  right  is  activated;  a  female  and  a  male  actor 
appear,  performing  a  series  of  abstract  gestures  recorded  in  slow  motion. 
The  viewer  can  now  choose  to  have  a  poem  read  aloud.  On  the  projection 
plane  to  the  left,  only  words  appear.  A  separate,  completely  autonomous 
and  noninteractive  poem  generator  operates  here,  continuously  rearranging 
the  words  that  appear  in  the  four  lists  in  the  central  field. 

Seaman's  installation  is  a  reflection  on  the  theme  of  traveling.  At 
the  most  immediate  level,  the  images,  which  were  made  in  Tokyo  and 
Karlsruhe,  are  evocative  of  foreign  places.  But  here,  "to  travel"  stands  also 
for  the  notion  of  identity  and  motion  in  cyberspace.  The  bodiless  passage 
through  the  various  image  and  text  spaces  of  the  poetic  architecture  is 
contrasted  with  the  apparent  sensuality  of  a  gestic  language.  Before  the 
eyes  and  under  the  hand  of  the  viewer,  a  network  of  associations  between 
images,  places,  poetic  language,  and  the  viewer's  own  memories  grows, 
which  ultimately  can  be  read  as  a  model  of  the  creation  of  meaning  through 
the  accumulation  of  associations. 

From  a  formal  viewpoint,  the  visual  output  generated  by  Seaman's 
machine  could  be  seen  to  stand  in  the  tradition  of  the  emblem;  it  produces 
interactive  emblems,  consisting  not  only  of  moving  images  but  also  of 


variable  text  passages.  In  an  emblem,  an  image  is  associated  with  a  motto, 
aphorism,  proverb,  or  short,  pointed  poem.  The  philosopher  Francis  Bacon 
wrote  in  1605,  "The  emblem  reduceth  conceits  intellectual  to  images 
sensible";  he  stressed  the  value  of  emblems  as  memory  aids,  summarizing 
the  art  of  memorizing  using  the  principles  of  mnemonics,  a  tradition 
Seaman  has  explicitly  referred  to  by  quoting  from  Francis  Yates's  book  The 
Art  of  Memory.'  Yet  the  texts  and  images  of  Passage  Sets  are  markedly 
different  from  those  of  an  emblem  in  a  number  of  ways:  the  work  has  none 
of  the  emblem's  pointed  character,  and  it  opens,  through  variation, 
recombination,  and  associative  connotation,  a  virtually  endless  field  of 
vague  and  subtle  recollections  and  feelings.  With  Seaman's  work,  we  enter 
a  space  that  is  completely  devoid  of  purpose. 

Like  Jeffrey  Shaw  and  Toshio  Iwai,  Seaman  does  not  use  the 
computer— the  most  powerful  artificial  memory  yet  created— for  pragmatic 
or  scientific  ends.  To  the  contrary,  he  employs  the  machine  to  play  games. 
By  offering  the  wide  range  of  choices  made  possible  by  the  computer,  his 
work  alters  the  conventional  relationship  between  art  and  viewer.  The 
meanings  of  his  images  are  not  predetermined,  but  are  established  as  the 
viewer  experiences  the  work.  As  in  all  interactive  art,  the  process  of 
reinterpretation  is  not  only  experienced  passively,  as  it  is  in  traditional 
painting,  but  is  turned  into  a  material  condition  for  the  very  existence  of  the 
work.  The  "open  work  of  art,"  to  use  Umberto  Eco's  phrase,  has  become  a 
physical  reality— Passage  Sets  is  an  emblem  of  ever-changing  memory,  an 
emblem  of  the  very  state  of  emblemlessness. 

i.  Level  2  Project,  exh.  broch.  (Sydney:  Art  Gallery  of  New  South  Wales,  1995). 
Oliver  Seifert 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C  ATA  L  0  G  U  E  S 


pages  42-43:  Bill  Seaman, 
Passage  Sets/One  Pulls  Pivots  at 
the  Tip  of  the  Tongue,  1994-95. 
Interactive  audiovisual  installation; 
three  screens,  each  approximately 
1.5  x  2  m;  installation  area 
variable,  approximately  7.5  x 
6.4  m.  Programming  by 
Christian  Ziegler.  Saxophone  by 
Tony  Wheeler.  Cello  by 
Catherine  Hewgill.  Produced  at 
ZKM/Center  for  Art  and  Media 
Karlsruhe  with  funds  provided  by 
the  Siemens  Stipend  and  the 
Intercommunication  Centre,  Tokyo. 
Collection  of  the  artist 


Bill  Seaman  was  born  in  1956  in 
Kennet,  Missouri.  He  received  a 
Bachelor  of  Fine  Arts  degree  from 
the  San  Francisco  Art  Institute,  and 
a  Master  of  Science  in  visual 
studies  from  M.I.T.,  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. 

He  has  received  a  number  of 
stipends  and  awards,  among  them 
a  Rockefeller  Foundation  Visual 
Arts  Award,  1986;  a  Massachusetts 
State  Council  Artist  Fellowship, 
1989;  a  Siemens-Projektstipendium 
from  ZKM  Karlsruhe,  1994;  and  the 
Prix  Ars  Electronica,  1992  and 
1995- 

Seaman's  video  works  and 
interactive  installations  have  been 
shown  in  several  international 
exhibitions  and  festivals,  including 
The  Biennale  of  Sydney,  1992; 
Siggraph,  Anaheim,  1993;  M.I.T. 
Twenty-Five-Year  Retrospective, 
Cambridge,  Massachusetts,  1994; 
MultiMediale  4,  ZKM  Karlsruhe, 
1995;  and  International 
Symposium  on  Electronic  Art, 
Montreal,  1995;  and  at  the  Art 
Gallery  of  New  South  Wales, 
Sydney,  1995. 

From  1992  to  1995,  Seaman  taught 
media  art  at  the  College  of  Fine  Art 
of  the  University  of  New  South 
Wales  in  Sydney.  Since  1996,  he 
has  taught  at  the  University  of 
Maryland  in  Baltimore. 


GROUP 
EXHIBITIONS 

The  Boundary  Rider:  The  Ninth 
Biennale  of  Sydney.  Sydney:  Art 
Gallery  of  New  South  Wales,  1992. 

MultiMediale  4.  Karlsruhe:  ZKM, 
1995- 

European  Media  Art  Festival. 
Osnabruck,  1995. 


45 


r 


I 


r 


* 


J  F_  F  F  R  E  Y 

'  *     sVaw 


THE  LEGIBLE  CITY,  1988-91 

7"/re  Legible  City  fuses  the  experience  of  the  city  with  the  experience  of 
reading.  The  viewer  sits  on  a  stationary  bicycle,  using  the  handlebar  and 
pedals  to  "ride"  through  the  scale  simulation  of  a  city  that  appears  on  a 
large  projection  screen.  The  city's  "buildings"  are  computer-generated  letters, 
which  form  words  and  sentences  lining  the  city's  streets.  The  handlebar  and 
pedals  of  the  bicycle  are  connected  to  a  Silicon  Graphics  workstation  that 
calculates  the  viewer's  position  within  the  simulated  city,  allows  the  viewer 
to  control  the  route  and  speed  of  his  or  her  tour,  and  modifies  the  projected 
image  in  real  time,  according  to  the  viewer's  movements.  An  additional 
small  monitor  in  front  of  the  bicycle  displays  a  map  of  the  city,  where  a 
cursor  indicates  the  current  location  of  the  cyclist. 

Shaw  has  created  three  different  versions  of  The  Legible  City. 
Each  is  based  on  a  real-life  cityscape,  the  downtown  areas  of  Karlsruhe, 
Amsterdam,  and  New  York  serving  as  his  models.  With  each  version,  Shaw 
used  texts  that  relate  directly  to  the  history  of  that  city.  In  the  Manhattan 
version  (created  in  1988-89),  which  represents  the  area  between  Thirty- 
fourth  and  Sixty-sixth  streets  and  Park  and  Eleventh  avenues,  the  viewer 
can  follow  eight  independent  narratives:  fictional  monologues  by  Ed  Koch, 
Frank  Lloyd  Wright,  Donald  Trump,  Noah  Webster,  a  tourist,  a  con  man,  an 
ambassador,  and  a  cab  driver,  all  written  by  Shaw's  collaborator  Dirk 
Groeneveld.  Each  text  appears  in  a  different  color,  so  the  cyclist  can  easily 
choose  a  certain  story  line  and  follow  it  through  the  streets. 

The  historical  texts  in  the  Amsterdam  version  (1990)  were  selected 
by  Groeneveld  from  fifteenth-  to  nineteenth-century  sources,  and  they 
appear,  in  the  simulated  city,  at  the  very  place  where  the  events  they 
describe  actually  occurred.  The  texts  in  the  Karlsruhe  version  (1991),  too, 
are  largely  based  on  historical  incidents.  They  include  references  to  notable 
former  inhabitants  of  the  city,  such  as  Karl  von  Drais,  the  inventor  of  the 
Laufrad,  a  precursor  of  the  bicycle.  Tourist  information  published  by  the 
municipal  administration  is  also  quoted. 

While  the  immediate  experience  of  The  Legible  City—  being  able  to 
move  freely  through  an  artificial  world  — is  compelling,  the  complex 
metaphorical  possibilities  that  arise  from  the  work  are  equally  startling. 
There  is  a  sensual  contrast  between  the  real  bicycle  and  the  virtual  space. 
The  cyclist  can  pedal  hard  enough  to  run  out  of  breath,  but  will  always 
remain  physically  in  the  same  place,  while  at  the  same  time  he  or  she 
traverses  the  virtual  city  bodiless,  perhaps  even  cutting  through  the 
buildings'  walls. 

The  piece  also  involves  the  superimposition  of  subjective  memory 
onto  the  objective  reality  of  city  architecture.  Only  those  visitors  to  the 
simulated  cities  who  are  familiar  with  their  factual  counterparts  will  be  able 
to  uncover  all  the  work's  treasures;  they  will  experience  the  familiar  in  an 


unfamiliar  guise,  and  this  breach  provides  a  measure  of  our  perceptual 
limitations. 

Beyond  these  two  aspects  of  The  Legible  City,  the  phenomena  of 
language  and  writing  add  other  layers  of  meaning  to  the  work.  If  the  viewer 
could  do  nothing  more  than  ride  aimlessly  through  the  cities,  The  Legible 
City  would  be  no  more  than  a  kind  of  video  game.  And  if  the  objective  were 
simply  to  alter  the  appearance  of  a  given  city,  why  would  an  artist  create  a 
real-time  simulation?  Only  the  presence  of  writing  makes  it  clear  that  a  city 
is  not  only  a  geographical  agglomeration  of  architecture,  but  also  an 
immaterial  pattern  of  experiences.  The  content  of  the  texts,  which  can  be 
perceived  only  when  the  viewer  performs  the  activities  of  cycling  and 
reading,  reveals  that  the  inhabitants'  history  plays  an  important  role  in 
shaping  the  identity  of  a  place.  The  effort  it  takes  the  viewer  to  synthesize 
the  slowly  approaching,  extremely  foreshortened  letters  into  phrases  while 
cycling  gives  evidence  of  the  fact  that,  in  spite  of  the  immateriality  of  the 
virtual  city,  a  new  reality  is  being  formed  in  the  viewer's  mind. 

When  writing  literally  becomes  architecture,  as  it  does  in  this 
installation,  it  somehow  transcends  its  own  linearity.  As  a  network  of 
"streets,"  the  text  of  The  Legible  City  puts  in  visual  form  the  hypertext  links 
that  thread  their  way  through  the  Internet.  And  as  a  "city,"  the  work  is  a 
materialized  metaphor,  a  model  of  the  process  of  perception. 

Oliver  Seifert 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C  ATA  L  0  G  U  E  S 


pages  46-47:  Jeffrey  Shaw,  The 
Legible  City,  1988-91.  Interactive 
computer-graphic  installation; 
screen  approximately  3.5  x  5  m; 
installation  area  variable, 
approximately  5.5  x  8.8  m.  Text 
by  Dirk  Groeneveld.  Programming 
by  Gideon  May.  ZKM/Center  for  Art 
and  Media  Karlsruhe. 


Jeffrey  Shaw  was  born  in  1944  in 
Melbourne,  Australia.  From  1963, 
he  studied  architecture  and  later 
art  history  at  the  University  of 
Melbourne.  In  1965,  he  continued 
his  education  in  the  visual  arts  at 
the  Brera  Art  Academy  in  Milan 
and  at  the  St  Martin's  School  of 
Art  in  London.  At  the  end  of  the 
1980s,  Shaw  taught  at  the 
Academie  van  Beeldende  Kunsten 
Rotterdam  and  in  1990  at  the 
Rietveld  Akademie  in  Amsterdam. 
Since  1991,  he  has  been  director 
of  the  Institute  for  Image  Media  at 
ZKM  Karlsruhe. 

For  his  interactive  installations, 
Shaw  received  an  award  at 
L'lmmagine  Elettronica  festival, 
Ferrara,  Italy,  and  a  Prix  Ars 
Electronica,  both  in  1990. 

Shaw's  work  has  been  shown  at 
the  Biennale  de  Paris,  1975; 
Bonnefanten  Museum,  Maastricht, 
The  Netherlands,  1988; 
International  Art  and  Science 
Exhibition,  Kanagawa  Science 
Center  Kawasaki-Shi,  Kawasaki, 
Japan,  1989;  Musee  d'lssel, 
Brussels,  1992;  Ars  Electronica, 
Linz,  1994;  and  Le  Biennale  d'Art 
Contemporain  de  Lyon,  1995-96.  A 
solo  exhibition  of  his  computer 
installations  was  shown  at  Neue 
Galerie  am  Landesmuseum 
Joanneum  Graz,  Austria,  1995. 


GROUP 

E  X  H  I  B  I  T  I  0  ? 

Moving  Image:  Electronic  Art. 
Karlsruhe:  Zentrum  fur  Kunst  und 
Medientechnologie;  Munich  and 
Stuttgart:  Oktagon,  1992. 

The  Boundary  Rider:  The  Ninth 
Biennale  of  Sydney.  Sydney:  Art 
Gallery  of  New  South  Wales,  1992. 

MultiMediale  3.  Karlsruhe:  ZKM, 
1993- 

Ars  Electronica  94.  Linz,  1994. 

Interface  2,  Weltbilder  - 
Bildwelten,  Computergestutzte 
Visionen.  Hamburg,  1995. 

MultiMediale  4.  Karlsruhe:  ZKM, 
1995- 

FotograRe  nach  der  Fotografie. 
Munich:  Aktionsforum  Praterinsel, 
1995- 

ie  Biennale  d'Art  Contemporain  de 
Lyon:  Installation,  Cinema,  Video, 
Informatique.  Lyon:  Musee  d'Art 
Contemporain,  1995. 

The  Butterfly  Effect.  Budapest: 
Soros  Foundation,  1996. 


49 


SJ I 


~    —    J 


V 


a  mw 


MATRIX     I  ,     1970-72 

Steina  and  Woody  Vasulka  began  working  in  the  pioneering  days  of  video 
art  in  the  1960s  and  1970s,  when  artists  interested  in  the  medium  were 
largely  concerned  with  the  social  and  political  implications  of  television.  In 
an  era  when  "the  establishment"  as  a  political  body  was  generally  under 
attack,  the  seamless  flow  of  commercial  and  institutional  information  in  the 
form  of  broadcast  images,  texts,  and  sound  was  subject  to  intense  scrutiny 
and  criticism.  Artists  took  possession  of  the  television  medium  to  generate 
alternative  strategies  of  production,  offering  it  as  a  site  for  aesthetic 
investigation  rather  than  as  a  space  for  commercial  entertainment  and 
institutional  authority. 

In  contrast  to  many  of  their  peers,  the  Vasulkas  focused  on  the 
technological  infrastructure  of  television,  rather  than  on  the  social  issues 
surrounding  it.  Four  years  after  their  arrival  in  the  United  States  in  1965 
(they  met  in  Prague  in  the  early  1960s),  they  began  creating  collaborative 
works  that  utilized  their  respective  skills:  his  as  an  engineer  and  film  editor, 
hers  as  a  musician.  In  1971,  along  with  Andres  Mannik,  they  founded  the 
Kitchen,  an  alternative  space  in  New  York  where  artists  could  experiment 
with  sound  and  electronic  images.  With  a  more  scientific  than  intuitive 
approach,  the  Vasulkas  began  testing  the  limits  of  existing  technologies  to 
explore  the  formal  properties  of  digital  and  analog  imagery,  the  materiality 
of  electronic  signals,  and  the  temporal  relations  between  audio  and  video. 

Matrix  I  represents  their  first  attempt  to  formalize  many  of  these 
early  experiments.  A  twenty-screen  video  array  (or  configuration  of  multiple 
monitors)  that  knits  together  a  selection  of  the  Vasulkas'  investigations  into 
the  phenomenology  of  sound  and  vision,  Matrix  I  brings  together  a  selection 
from  the  artists'  1970-72  Matrix  series  of  video-array  projects.'  The  Vasulkas 
were  early  proponents  of  multimonitor  video  configurations,  an  initial 
departure  from  the  convention  of  single-channel  works  that  would 
eventually  lead  to  video  installations. 

For  the  Matrix  series,  the  Vasulkas  worked  with  engineer  George 
Brown,  a  frequent  collaborator  in  these  years,  in  adapting  a  keyer— a  device 
that  regulates  the  combination  of  two  visual  signals  — into  an  apparatus 
capable  of  layering  multiple  images;  this  approach  is  typical  of  the  artists' 
interest  in  modifying  technology  for  aesthetic  ends.  The  sound  in  Matrix  I  is 
generated,  in  part,  by  patterns  of  random  electronic  signals.  These  signals 
also  generate  images,  which  themselves  generate  sound.  The  result  is  a 
sequence  of  pulsing  abstract  forms  that  move  horizontally  across  the  video 
monitors;  although  the  same  image  appears  on  each  screen,  the  impression 
is  of  synchronized  waves  moving  across  the  field  of  monitors.  This 
horizontal  movement,  which  might  seem  mundane  to  the  sophisticated 
viewer  of  the  1990s,  was  another  technical  breakthrough;  up  until  that 
point,  experiments  in  scrolling  and  simulating  the  passage  of  images 
between  different  screens  had  been  limited  to  vertical  movement,  as  in 
Joan  Jonas's  Vertical  Roll  (1972). 

In  some  respects,  the  abstract,  geometric  character  of  Matrix  I  is 
reminiscent  of  the  experiments  in  film  and  nonobjective  form  conducted  by 
artists  in  the  1920s.  In  the  work  of  Hans  Richter  and  Laszlo  Moholy-Nagy, 
for  example,  abstract  shapes  are  manipulated  into  moving  compositions  that 
simulate  rhythm,  musical  harmony,  and  the  contrasting  values  of  opacity 
and  transparency.  The  desire  to  create  form  from  technical  process  is  an 
inherently  Modernist  impulse.  While  acknowledging  a  general  interest  in 
such  aesthetics,  however,  the  Vasulkas  credit  the  less  austere  painterly 
investigations  of  Salvador  Dali  and  Maurits  Cornelis  Escher,  with  their 
distortions  of  visual  perception,  as  more  immediate  influences.  The  artists 


: 


■  ■ 
■ 

■ 


■ 


M 


* 


1 


pages  50-51:  Steina  and  Woody 
Vasulka,  Matrix  I,  1970-72.  One- 
channel  video  and  two-channel 
sound  installation,  30  minutes, 
black  and  white,  1.63  x  3.18  x 
.48  m.  Collection  of  the  artists. 

left:  Steina  Vasulka,  Borealis,  1993. 
Two-channel  video  and  four- 
channel  sound  installation, 
10  minutes,  color;  installation 
space  variable,  approximately  5  x 
9-75  x  9.75  m.  ZKM/Center  for  Art 
and  Media  Karlsruhe. 


also  cite  the  significance  of  Bela  Jules,  whose  essays  on  the  nature  of 
"Cyclopean  vision"  — the  fusion  of  left-  and  right-eye  cognition  to  create  a 
third-eye  viewpoint  — bear  specifically  on  the  effects  achieved  in  Matrix  I,2 
where  multiple  camera  setups  were  employed  to  create  an  overall 
composite  image. 

i.  While  the  Matrix  series  includes  experiments  in  both  black-and-white  and  color,  Matrix  I 
includes  monochrome  images  only.  A  second  work,  Matrix  II,  which  is  not  in  this  exhibition, 
is  a  twelve-monitor  video  wall  that  incorporates  their  experiments  from  this  series  in  color. 
2.  Conversation  with  the  author,  April  1996. 

Matthew  Drutt 


BOREALIS,     1993 

Steina  Vasulka  uses  rotating  cameras  in  her  installations  as  instruments  to 
explore  the  phenomena  of  time  and  space,  recording  her  surroundings 
without  any  interference  to  create  documents  of  given  forms  and  sounds.  In 
Borealis,  Vasulka  establishes  a  spatial  relationship  between  the  visual  and 
acoustic  elements  of  nature.  Fragmented  landscape  images,  which  the  artist 
recorded  in  her  country  of  origin,  Iceland,  in  1992,  appear  on  four  free- 
standing, transparent  screens  in  a  darkened  room.  Two  mirrors  set  up  in 
conjunction  with  two  projectors  disseminate  the  images  to  the  screens; 
because  of  the  screens'  translucent  material,  the  images  are  visible  on  both 
sides.  The  viewer  is  surrounded  by  a  play  of  recorded  sounds  and  moving, 
free-floating  depictions  of  water,  rock  surfaces,  and  soil,  becoming 
captivated  by  the  images  of  natural  phenomena  and  experiencing  a  direct 
confrontation  with  the  physical  power  of  the  elements. 

The  electronic  manipulations  employed  by  Vasulka  and  her 
husband,  Woody,  in  both  their  collaborative  and  individual  projects,  produce 
strange  effects  that  seem  to  subvert  natural  laws,  confusing  our  perceptual 
beliefs.  In  Borealis,  the  video  material  is  manipulated  in  such  a  way  that  we 
see  the  flow  of  water  in  reverse,  returning  to  its  source;  through  cross- 
fading,  minute  shifts  in  the  soil  appear  to  swell  to  the  size  of  avalanches; 
and  precise  superimpositions  transform  natural  rock  formations  into 
complex,  virtual  sedimentations.  The  main  theme  of  Borealis  is  the 
movement  and  flow  of  nature.  Because  of  the  open  arrangement  of  the 
large  screens,  the  visitor  can  feel  entrapped  by  the  power  of  nature  in  the 
gaps  that  are  left  between  them.  The  enhanced  visual  and  acoustic  presence 
of  the  recordings  allows  the  viewer  to  participate  in  a  visual  and  sensual 
experience  while  being  drawn  closer  to  the  textures  of  the  natural  elements. 

Borealis  incorporates  landscape  within  an  architectural 
configuration,  fusing  both  elements  to  create  a  new,  artifical  genre  made 
possible  by  the  medium  of  video.  The  projections  on  the  screens  interact 
with  the  space  around  them,  while  the  planes  themselves,  in  their  random 
placement  and  their  orientation  toward  the  projectors,  create  their  own 
spaces— they  act  as  an  incidentally  arranged  subarchitecture,  offering  both 
fixed  and  changing  scenes  in  which  the  viewer  has  no  option  but  to  react 
to  the  ceaseless  movement  of  the  images.  Despite  the  material  presence  of 
the  screens,  the  motion  of  the  images  suggests  a  purely  illusionary 
tectonics  of  planes.  The  architecture  of  the  floating  screens  seems  to  fade 
under  the  immateriality  of  the  images.  In  contrast,  the  projected  images  fill 
the  space  with  their  extraordinary  mass,  the  emphasized  materiality  of  their 
content  superceding  their  virtual  character.  Close-ups  of  small  sections  of 
landscape  and  enlargements  of  detailed  surface  textures  grow  in  the  video 
projections  into  towering  formations.  Concentrated  fragments  of  nature  can 
turn  into  mountain  ranges  and  landscape  panoramas.  Their  monumentality 
represents  their  ability  to  withstand  the  forces  of  time,  climate,  and 
evolution.  As  architecture  and  landscape  interact,  each  simultaneously 
constructs  and  deconstructs  the  other. 


Since  her  move  to  New  Mexico  in  1980,  Vasulka  has  drawn  on  the 
landscape  as  a  recurring  theme  in  her  work.  It  is  not  the  romantic 
implication  of  this  traditional  artistic  motif  that  interests  her,  but  the 
influence  of  machines  on  geographical  and  geological  conditions.  Unimpeded 
by  the  art-historical  associations  of  the  landscape  genre,  Vasulka  views  the 
scenery  she  encounters  in  the  Southwest  quite  pragmatically,  as  an 
extension  of  spatial  dimensions  and  perspectives  that  allows  her  to  expand 
her  artistic  configurations.  The  whole  of  the  Southwest,  she  has  said,  now 
serves  as  her  studio.'  This  impulse  to  move  the  studio  outside,  into  nature, 
evokes  a  long  succession  of  plein-air  movements  with  widely  varying  artistic 
intentions,  from  Impressionism  in  the  nineteenth  century  to  the  earthworks 
of  the  1960s  and  1970s.  Vasulka's  manipulations  of  nature  are  most  closely 
related  to  Robert  Smithson's  large-scale  landscape  interventions,  some  of 
which  were  only  accessible  through  the  mediums  of  film  and  photography. 
Like  Smithson,  who  called  himself  a  "site-seer,"  Vasulka  uses  her  camera  to 
penetrate  deep  into  the  geological  and  physical  structures  of  earth,  stone, 
and  water.  Works  such  as  Summer  Salt  (1982),  The  West  (1983),  and 
Geomania  (1989),  which  are  based  on  an  optically  deconstructed 
approximation  of  detailed  landscape  textures,  bring  to  mind  Smithson's 
approach  to  natural  realities.  While  Smithson  used  heavy  machinery  to  move 
large  amounts  of  earth,  in  Vasulka's  work  this  feat  is  accomplished  by  her 
use  of  video.  Like  Smithson's  earthworks,  Borealis  is  composed  of  a  number 
of  precisely  choreographed  pieces  of  nature  that  reorganize  geological 
processes;  in  Vasulka's  work,  this  is  accomplished  by  means  of  depth 
adjustments,  optical  echoes  and  reversal  effects,  superimpositions,  and 
other  electronic  manipulations.  Borealis  seems  to  tell  the  history  of  the 
earth  in  a  fragmented  text  composed  of  the  sediments  of  time.  The  viewer's 
experience  is  that  of  a  traveler,  who,  via  the  real-time  projections,  develops 
a  sense  of  the  duration  of  an  observation.  While  Process  and  performance 
art  of  the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s  brought  real  time  into  the  galleries 
and  museums,  Borealis  employs  geological  and  paleontological  measures  of 
time,  which  leave  little  space  for  human  intervention.  The  pixellated 
structure  of  Vasulka's  medium— the  digital  image— relates  to  the  geological 
and  archeological  structures  of  the  subject  of  her  recordings.  Like  a 
cartographer,  she  documents  the  graphic  and  structural  elements  of  natural 
sites,  her  digitalized  projections  forming  "maps"  of  the  landscape. 

Smithson  did  not  consider  his  inclination  toward  earthworks  as 
biographically  predetermined,  and  Vasulka,  also,  though  her  work  is 
concerned  with  the  landscape  of  her  birthplace  and  immediate  surroundings, 
resists  a  mythical/female  or  purely  aesthetic  interpretation.  Her  landscape 
adaptations  underscore  the  phenomenological  interest  of  a  place  where  pre- 
and  posthistorical  aspects  meet  in  one  material  formation.  Vasulka  leaves 
behind  painting,  sculpture,  and  architecture,  using  video  to  enter  a  timeless 
world  of  ideas  where  she  transposes  history  and  entropy,  material  and 
erosion  into  the  transparency  of  a  visual  language. 

1.  Steina  Vasulka,  quoted  in  Marita  Sturken,  "Steina  and  Woody  Vasulka:  In  Dialogue  with 
the  Machine,"  in  Steina  and  Woody  Vasulka:  Machine  Media,  exh.  cat.  (San  Francisco:  San 
Francisco  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  1996),  p.  46. 

Ursula  Frohne 


BIOGRAPHIES 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C  ATA  L  0  G  U  E  S 


Steina  Vasulka  was  born  Steinunn 
Briem  Bjarnadottir  in  1940  in 
Reykjavik,  Iceland.  She  studied 
violin  and  musical  theory,  and  in 
*959.  she  received  a  scholarship 
from  the  Czechoslovak  Ministry  of 
Culture  to  attend  the  music 
conservatory  in  Prague.  In  1964, 
she  joined  the  Icelandic 
Symphony  Orchestra. 

Woody  Vasulka  was  born 
Bohuslav  Peter  Vasulka  in  1937  in 
Brno,  Czechoslovakia.  He  studied 
metal  technology  and  hydraulic 
mechanics  at  the  School  of 
Industrial  Engineering  in  Brno, 
where  he  received  a  baccalaureate 
degree  in  1956.  Later,  he  attended 
the  Academy  of  the  Performing 
Arts  in  Prague,  where  he  directed 
and  produced  several  short  films. 

The  Vasulkas  met  in  Prague  in  the 
early  1960s.  They  were  married  in 

1964,  and  moved  to  New  York  in 

1965.  There,  Steina  worked  as  a 
free-lance  musician  and  Woody  as 
a  multiscreen  film  editor.  In  1971, 
together  with  Andreas  Mannik, 
they  founded  the  Kitchen,  a 
performance  space  for  the  media 
arts  in  New  York.  During  these 
years,  they  collaborated 
extensively  on  investigations  into 
the  electronic  nature  of  video  and 
sound,  to  produce  documentaries 
about  theater,  dance,  and  music. 
In  1974,  the  Vasulkas  moved  to 
Buffalo,  New  York,  where  they 
joined  the  faculty  of  the  Center  for 
Media  Study  at  the  State 
University  of  New  York.  At  this 


point,  their  interests  diverged. 
Woody  turned  his  attention  to  the 
Rutt/Etra  Scan  Processor,  and  in 
1976,  worked  with  Don  MacArthur 
and  then  Jeffrey  Schier  to  build 
the  Digital  Image  Articulator.  Steina 
began  experimenting  with  the 
camera  as  an  autonomous  imaging 
instrument  in  work  that  would 
later  become  the  Machine  Vision 
series.  Since  1980,  the  Vasulkas 
have  lived  in  Santa  Fe,  New 
Mexico. 

The  Vasulkas  have  been  artists-in- 
residence  at  the  National  Center  for 
Experiments  in  Television  at  KQED 
in  San  Francisco,  and  at 
WNET/Thirteen  in  New  York. 
Individually  and  collectively,  they 
have  received  funding  from  the 
New  York  Council  on  the  Arts, 
Creative  Artists  Public  Service,  the 
National  Endowment  for  the  Arts, 
the  Corporation  for  Public 
Broadcasting,  the  John  Simon 
Guggenheim  Memorial  Foundation, 
and  the  New  Mexico  Arts  Division. 
Both  received  the  American  Film 
Institute  Maya  Deren  Award  in 
1992  and  the  Siemens- 
Medienkunstpreis  from  ZKM 
Karlsruhe  in  1995.  In  1988,  Steina 
was  an  artist-in-residence  in  Tokyo 
on  a  U.S. /Japan  Friendship 
Commission  grant  In  1993,  Woody 
received  a  Soros  Foundation 
fellowship  to  lecture  and  present 
work  throughout  Eastern  Europe. 

Among  the  exhibitions  that  have 
been  devoted  to  the  Vasulkas' 
work  are  The  West,  Centre  Georges 


Pompidou,  Paris,  1984;  Focus:  The 
Vasulkas,  Institute  of 
Contemporary  Art,  Boston,  1986; 
Steina  &  Woody  Vasulka,  Hitachi 
Showroom,  Tokyo,  1988;  and 
Woody  and  Steina  Vasulka: 
Machine  Media,  San  Francisco 
Museum  of  Modern  Art,  1996. 
Group  exhibitions  in  which  their 
work  has  appeared  include 
Projected  Video,  Whitney  Museum 
of  American  Art,  New  York,  1975; 
Festival  International  d'Art  Video, 
Locarno,  Switzerland,  1984;  and 
Biennial  Exhibition,  Whitney 
Museum  of  American  Art,  1989.  In 
1992,  the  Vasulkas  organized 
Eigenwelt  der  Apparate-Welt: 
Pioneers  of  Electronic  Art,  an 
exhibition  of  early  electronic  tools 
at  Ars  Electronica  in  Linz,  Austria. 

Steina  has  taught  at  the  Akademie 
fur  Angewandte  Kunst  in  Vienna, 
the  Institut  fur  Neue  Medien  at  the 
Stadelschule,  Frankfurt,  and  the 
College  of  Arts  and  Crafts, 
Reykjavik.  Since  1993,  Woody  has 
been  a  visiting  professor  at  the 
Faculty  of  Art  Polytechnic  Institute, 
in  Brno,  Czech  Republic. 

Reprinted  from  Steina  and  Woody  Vasulka: 
Machine  Media,  exh.  cat.  (San  Francisco: 
San  Francisco  Museum  of  Modern  Art, 
1996). 


TWO-PERSON 
EXHIBITIONS 

Steina  and  Woody  Vasulka:  The 
West.  New  York:  Fine  Arts  Center 
Gallery,  State  University  of  New 
York  at  Stony  Brook,  1987. 

Steina  and  Woody  Vasulka: 
Machine  Media.  San  Francisco: 
Museum  of  Modern  Art,  1996. 


GROUP 
EXHIBITIONS 

American  Landscape  Video:  The 
Electronic  Grove.  Pittsburgh: 
Museum  of  Art,  Carnegie  Institute, 
1988. 

Traversals:  Instructions  to  the 
Double.  Long  Beach:  Long  Beach 
Museum  of  Art,  1990. 

Eigenwelt  der  Apparate-Welt: 
Pioneers  of  Electronic  Art.  Linz:  Ars 
Electronica,  1992. 

Critical  Mass.  Santa  Fe:  Museum  of 
Fine  Arts,  1993. 


55 


*  i  .» 


n 


■ 

■ 


M 


I 


I  0  LA 


THE     CITY     OF     MAN,     1989 

The  coexistence  and  fusion  of  different  modes  of  being  is  one  of  the  main 
themes  in  Bill  Viola's  theatrical  installations.  His  works  often  express, 
through  the  simultaneity  and  permutation  of  collected  images,  in  which 
fragments  of  landscapes,  cities,  nature,  destruction,  birth,  and  death  come 
together  in  rhythmic  sequences  to  form  contemporary  tableaus,  the  passage 
through  different  stages  of  life,  illustrating  through  varying  references  the 
artist's  experience  and  world  view:  that  everything  revolves  around  "change 
and  process."'  This  insight  seems  disarmingly  simple  at  first,  but  proves  to 
be  quite  complex  if  we  contemplate  the  antitheses  between  the  elements  of 
Viola's  installations. 

The  City  of  Man  consists  of  three  large  projection  planes,  set  up 
side  by  side  in  a  triptych  arrangement.  The  austerity  of  the  altarlike 
composition,  with  two  narrow  side  panels  flanking  a  larger  central  panel,  is 
further  emphasized  by  the  brown  walnut  frame  that  encloses  these  three 
elements.  The  frame  defines  the  space  of  the  images  that  appear  on  the 
panels,  but  it  also  elevates  these  images,  which  outwardly  remain  grounded 
in  the  sphere  of  the  ordinary.  Real-time  recordings  are  shown  in  parallel  on 
the  screens,  where  the  mediums  of  painting,  cinema,  and  video  merge. 
Repeating  the  threefold  arrangement  of  the  screens,  the  content  of  the 
images  is  grouped  into  three  symbolic  units— paradise,  earthly  life,  and 
hell,  themes  in  the  tradition  of  medieval  painting,  as  exemplified  in  the 
works  of  Hieronymous  Bosch.  Using  moving  signs,  with  a  typology  that 
does  not  hide  its  indebtedness  to  Bosch's  allegorical  parables,  Viola  draws 
scenes  of  a  modern  world  that  unfold  atmospherically  in  sequences  that 
oscillate  between  dream  and  reality,  idyll  and  inferno. 

The  City  of  Man's  left  field  represents  the  archetype  of  paradise, 
displaying  bucolic  land-  and  cityscape  impressions.  In  their  pathetic  beauty, 
they  seem  to  be  modern  replicas  of  the  dream  of  the  New  World,  where 
arcadia  and  wilderness  were  to  be  transformed  into  an  earthly  paradise  by 
the  civilizing  capacity  of  man,  so  both  could  exist  side  by  side  as  sublime 
entities.  The  topic  of  the  middle  field  is  the  material  world,  as  the  site  of 
human  competition  for  resources,  power,  and  territory.  Prosaic  scenes  of 
people  at  work  alternate  with  views  of  profane  meeting  rooms  and  sacred 
church  interiors,  symbolizing  humankind's  "developed"  state,  in  which  man 
has  established  a  pragmatic,  cultural  relationship  with  the  natural,  sensual 
world  and  the  profitable  possibilities  he  has  created.  The  different  spheres 
of  public  life  shown  here  represent  the  value  systems  that  regulate  the 
ownership  and  utilization  of  resources;  interpreted  in  a  more  general  sense, 
the  centerpiece  depicts  the  spectrum  of  different  relations  to  life  and  the 
world  that  are  shaped  by  society,  politics/ideology,  and  religion.  In  the 
work's  right  field,  we  witness  an  allegorical  vision  of  hell.  Buildings  drown 
in  a  sea  of  flames  and  smoke  while  lone  figures  try  to  extinguish  the  blaze, 
in  what  is  clearly  a  hopeless  endeavor.  Destruction,  damnation,  and 
desperation  dominate  this  part  of  the  composition. 

In  The  City  of  Man,  as  in  his  later  works  Nantes  Triptych  (1992) 
and  The  Greeting  (1995),  Viola  intentionally  refers  to  the  European  tradition 
of  altar  painting,  attempting  to  establish  a  direct  dialogue  with  it.  Part  of 
Viola's  identity  as  an  artist  is  his  awareness  that  he  is  part  of  a  tradition, 
and  that  even  video  images  can  receive  vital  impulses  from  the  latent 
power  of  age-old  codifications.  Because  of  The  City  of  Man's  connection  to 
a  classical  form  of  painting,  its  video  images  share  the  multiple  levels  of 
communication  inherent  in  traditional  iconography.  Even  more  importantly, 
the  religious  origin  of  the  triptych  form  increases  the  spiritual  value  of  the 
work's  immaterial  images,  and  the  daily  products  of  television  take  on  the 


sacred  and  awe-inspiring  qualities  of  a  religious  apocalypse.  The 
"faithfulness"  of  a  religious  world  view  appears  in  the  form  of  a  profane 
medium,  bringing  to  mind  the  commonplace  that  watching  the  daily 
newscast  is  the  modern-day  version  of  prayer  time  and  that  the  television 
set  has  supplanted  the  domestic  altar. 

Viola  has  commented  on  his  art-historical  reference  to  the  triptych 
form:  "I  am  interested  in  its  use  as  referent  to  the  European  Christian 
tradition,  as  an  image  that  arises  out  of  the  culture  and  therefore  resides 
within,  not  without,  many  of  the  people  who  have  come  to  see  it  in  Europe. 
I  am  less  interested  in  its  use  as  a  quotation,  or  an  'appropriated  image.' 
.  .  .  Beyond  more  technical  reasons  such  as  the  delicate  balance  of  the 
number  three  and  its  use  for  comparative  contrast  and  interaction,  both 
visually  and  especially  temporally,  ultimately  my  interest  in  the  triptych  form 
is  that  it  is  a  reflection  of  a  cosmological  and  social  world  view,  'Heaven- 
Earth-Hell,'  and  its  tripartite  structure  is  an  image  of  the  structure  of  the 
European  mind  and  consciousness.  These  aspects  can  become  activated 
energies  when  applied  to  images  of  a  contemporary  nature."2  These  remarks 
suggest  that  Viola  sees  his  video  art  as  a  way  of  revitalizing  historical 
painting  as  an  art  discipline.  He  does  not  idealize  the  past  in  comparison  to 
the  world  as  it  has  become;  rather,  he  is  concerned  with  the  way 
perceptions  change  under  different  circumstances,  and  with  correlating  this 
relationship,  through  series  of  images,  to  life.  With  this  claim  to  the 
importance  of  his  medium,  Viola  defends  with  fantastic  intensity  a  more 
allegorical  than  virtual  or  real  image  space. 

The  visual  memory  that  Viola  always  returns  to— the  history  of 
art  — is  only  the  source  for  a  new  genealogy  of  images.  In  their  fluctuating 
juxtapositions,  his  images  tell  another  kind  of  "history,"  one  that  owes  its 
existence  to  the  very  fact  that  there  is  no  narrative  in  his  work.  Viola 
alludes  and  conjures,  allowing  the  origins,  actions,  life,  and  suffering  of  the 
images  and  figures  that  appear  in  his  work  to  remain  a  mystery.  An 
allegorist,  he  incorporates  everything,  and  everything  means  something  to 
him:  words  and  dreams,  people  and  legends,  facts  and  visions.  He  does  not 
want  to  create  a  distilled  product  called  art,  with  a  life  that  has  been  left 
behind  like  an  empty  shell,  but  an  encounter  with  the  world  in  the  most 
complete  and  precise  sense:  as  an  endless  process  and  not  as  an  event,  as 
a  physical  sensation  beyond  the  immediate  and  not  as  a  single  moment  of 
clarified  perception.  His  art  does  not  gain  a  privileged  position  — it  is  not  a 
playground  for  aesthetics,  but  the  means  of  a  confrontational  re-integration. 
For  Viola,  art  is  a  medium  of  reflection  and  a  tool  to  penetrate  the  hidden 
layers  of  the  unconscious,  the  "sediments"  of  human  experience,  which  will 
ultimately  enable  us  to  unearth  the  most  elementary  structures  of  being. 

Narrative  is  entirely  absent  from  The  City  of  Man,  and  is  replaced 
by  the  rhythm  of  the  work's  images  and  the  mood  emanating  from  its 
scenic  compilations.  The  image  sequences  create  a  suggestion  that  is 
entirely  different  in  content  from  that  of  the  dramatic  structure  of  classical 
narration.  The  moment  the  consonance  of  images  seems  to  describe  a 
situation,  the  motion  of  the  triptych's  image  machine  disrupts  a  coherent 
reading.  The  background  noise  is  the  only  unifying  element  in  the  flow  of 
disparate  scenes,  the  buzz  of  a  freeway  on  the  left  blending  with  the  sound 
of  the  crackling  fire  on  the  right;  applause  is  heard  periodically  from  the 
middle  segment  of  the  triptych,  and,  aided  by  the  twitter  of  birds  from  the 
left,  its  staccato  disrupts  the  murmur  synchronized  with  the  images  of  a 
church.  As  it  is  impossible  to  determine  exactly  which  segment  is  the  source 
of  a  specific  sound,  the  eye  moves  restlessly  across  the  screens. 


IE 


■  > 


v 


3 


I  ■ 


■ 


Tr»**         ••-    iV% 


■yf 


v.3 


pages  56-57:  Bill  Viola,  The  City 
of  Man,  1989.  Three-channel  video 
and  four-channel  sound 
installation,  color;  central  screen, 
2.14  x  2.14  m;  two  lateral  screens, 
each  approximately  2.14  x  1.07  m; 
installation  space  variable, 
approximately  4.3  x  7.6  x  7.6  m. 
Number  one  of  an  edition  of  two. 
Rivendell  Collection  of  Late 
Twentieth-Century  Art,  On 
permanent  loan  to  the  Center  for 
Curatorial  Studies,  Bard  College, 
Annandale-on-Hudson,  New  York. 
(Number  two:  ZKM/Center  for  Art 
and  Media  Karlsruhe.) 

above  and  following  two  pages: 
Bill  Viola,  Threshold,  1992. 
Three-channel  video  and  two- 
channel  sound  installation, 
black  and  white;  and  electronic 
sign  with  newsfeed;  installation 
space  variable,  approximately 
4.75  x  4.72  x  8.12  m.  ZKM/Center 
for  Art  and  Media  Karlsruhe. 


1 1 . 


H 


9kjn 


+ 


Viola's  images  absorb  the  viewer  in  the  "logic"  of  their  associative 
combinations.  His  aim  is  the  complete  dissolution  of  expectations  and  the 
acceptance  of  the  permanent  disappearance  of  all  particularity.  His  works 
demand  the  viewer's  immersion  into  their  process  of  flux,  invoking 
continuous  change  with  hypnotic  intensity.  Through  its  time-based  structure, 
The  City  of  Man  reveals  Viola's  hostility  toward  time:  everything  happens 
simultaneously  and  perpetually,  repeating  itself  in  cycles,  as  in  its  video 
loops.  But  in  the  end  the  video  image,  too,  is  mortal:  when  the  equipment 
is  turned  off,  the  images  vanish  and  nothing  is  left  but  memory.  In  The  City 
of  Man,  the  "temporality"  of  existence  is  dissolved  at  last  — formally  it 
becomes  a  "contemporality,"  and  in  the  work's  content  a  "supratemporality." 

1.  Bill  Viola,  "Das  Ganze  wieder  zusammenfugen,  Bill  Viola  im  Gesprach  mit  Otto  Neumaier 
und  Alexander  Puhringer,"  in  Alexander  Puhringer,  ed.,  Bill  Viola,  exh.  cat.  (Salzburg:  Ritter 
Klagenfurt  and  Salzburger  Kunstverein,  1994),  p.  143. 

2.  Viola,  Reasons  for  Knocking  at  an  Empty  House,  Writings  19/3-1994,  ed.  Robert  Violette 
and  Viola  (Cambridge,  Mass.:  M.I.T.  Press;  London:  Thames  and  Hudson,  in  association  with 
Anthony  d'Offay  Gallery,  1995),  pp.  244-45. 

Ursula  Frohne 


THRESHOLD,     1992 

As  in  many  of  Bill  Viola's  works,  the  theme  of  Threshold  is  the  connection 
between  body  and  spirit,  thought  and  action,  contemplation  and 
concentration,  inner  and  outer  reality.  Space  is  organized  to  allow  the 
concrete  experience  of  crossing  a  threshold,  where  the  moment  of  transition 
from  one  symbolic  reality  into  another  becomes  the  main  event  and  the 
subject  of  perception. 

As  the  viewer  stands  outside  the  main  room  of  the  installation, 
his  or  her  attention  is  absorbed  by  the  bright  light  of  an  electronic 
signboard.  The  sign  broadcasts  the  latest  news,  displaying  messages 
transmitted  directly  from  a  press  agency.  Because  of  the  almost  painful 
brightness  of  the  moving  letters,  one  does  not  notice  right  away  that  there 
is  a  gap  in  the  middle  of  the  sign,  where  the  display  breaks  off  around  an 
opening  in  the  wall.  This  is  the  threshold  the  viewer  is  supposed  to  cross, 
passing  through  the  silent,  but  visually  obtrusive,  flow  of  electronic  data  to 
enter  a  darkened  space. 

After  entering  the  barely  lit  room,  the  viewer's  eyes  slowly  adapt, 
and  the  faint  images  of  three  people  sleeping  begin  to  appear  on  the  walls. 
With  their  closed  eyes  and  calm  features,  the  larger-than-life-size  portraits 
look  at  first  like  black-and-white  photographs  of  corpses.  But  there  is  the 
sound  of  breathing,  and  after  longer  observation,  minimal  movements  in  the 
sleepers'  faces  can  be  discerned:  gradually  the  viewer  becomes  aware  that 
these  are  living  people,  and  slowly  becomes  immersed  in  the  peacefulness 
of  the  scene.  The  situation  is  so  intimate  that  it  seems  to  establish  a 
personal  relationship  between  the  viewer  and  the  sleeping  people,  but  the 
immediacy  of  this  relationship  also  heightens  the  anonymity  of  the  figures, 
and,  in  a  certain  way,  that  of  sleep  itself.  The  sleepers  are  exposed  to  the 
gaze  of  the  observer,  and  that  leads  to  more  than  psychological 
identification,  as  the  sound  of  regular  breathing  defines  the  space  as  a 
realm  of  the  unconscious  beyond  the  tireless  affairs  of  the  outside  world.  By 
observing  the  submersion  of  the  sleepers,  the  viewer  slowly  sinks  into  a 
meditative  state  of  self-reflection.  The  perception  of  the  projected  images 
begins  to  correspond  to  the  vaguely  felt  images  inside,  and  the  threshold 
between  outer  and  inner  perception  is  crossed.  Outside,  objective  data  and 
facts  reign;  inside,  spiritual  reflection  takes  place  — outside,  information; 
inside,  contemplation.  The  coexistence  of  these  two  levels  is  the 
fundamental  reality  of  Viola's  spatial  compositions.  By  including  in  his  work 
what  exists  "after  or  behind  the  physical  world,"  he  opens  up  a 
metaphysical  horizon. 


The  drama  of  this  contrast  between  levels  of  perception  is 
heightened  through  a  carefully  orchestrated  turn  of  events.  Although  the 
threshold  is,  in  itself,  neutral,  marking  only  the  point  of  transition  from  one 
state  into  another,  it  is  a  very  intense  motif.  Because  we  do  not  know  what 
awaits  us  beyond  it  as  we  approach  the  installation,  we  are  uncertain  and 
at  the  same  time  curious.  Breaking  through  the  noisy  information  barrier, 
we  enter  an  unexpectedly  quiet  room.  By  crossing  the  threshold,  we 
experience  two  extreme  conditions:  on  the  outside,  the  blinding  light  and 
the  relentless  bombardment  of  the  news  media,  which  absorb  even  the 
cruelest  and  most  banal  incidents  in  their  persistent  "alertness";  on  the 
inside,  the  introverted  and  introspective  sleepers,  who  are  untouched  by 
outside  events.  On  reflection,  we  come  to  see  that  it  is  not  the  sleepers 
who  are  unconscious,  but  on  the  contrary,  the  media,  who,  in  their  restless 
dissemination  and  accumulation  of  news,  act  literally  without  consciousness. 
The  moving  letters  of  the  electronic  signboard  do  indeed  hold  a  host  of 
factual  information,  but  its  full  significance  cannot  be  processed  in  such  a 
short  span  of  time.  If  we  spend  a  few  minutes  reading  the  procession  of 
illuminated  letters,  we  learn  of  crises  and  catastrophes,  of  politics  and 
surveys,  but  we  cannot  find  a  personal  perspective  in  this  mantra  of 
messages,  or  even  a  method  to  weigh  the  importance  of  the  different 
reports.  They  dissolve  in  a  quantitative  continuum  and  evaporate  into 
indistinct  noise.  This,  together  with  the  sign's  disturbing  glare,  creates  an 
overwhelming  impression,  and  it  is  at  this  point  that  we  find  the  symbolic 
threshold  that  Viola  evokes  in  the  installation's  title.  In  Threshold,  he 
provokes  us  to  enter  the  door  that  leads  from  the  "dimension  of  real  time," 
the  "primary  time  of  experience,"  into  the  sphere  of  the  "other  time,"  where 
the  individual  experience  of  time  takes  place.1  Crossing  this  threshold,  we 
perceive  ourselves  not  only  as  the  subjects  of  our  experiences,  but  also  as 
objects  of  the  events  occurring  around  us,  as  exposed  to  the  impact  of 
these  events  as  the  sleepers  are  to  the  gaze  of  the  audience.  Threshold 
creates  the  impression  of  the  simultaneous  occurrence  of  different  levels  of 
time  and  consciousness.  At  the  same  time,  however,  in  both  sections  of  the 
installation,  it  makes  reference  to  the  instability  of  this  "threshold" 
condition:  the  transitory  nature  of  the  events  that  unravel  on  the  outside  as 
constantly  changing  news  reports  corresponds  to  the  labile  state  of 
dreaming  on  the  inside;  and  the  continuous  flow  of  words  has  its 
counterpart  in  the  stream  of  consciousness  in  the  brain,  which  always 
remains  active,  even  during  sleep. 

Just  like  the  motif  of  the  threshold,  sleep  must  be  read  as  a 
multiple  metaphor  in  this  work.  (Viola  treated  this  theme  earlier,  referring  to 
Francisco  de  Goya's  Sleep  of  Reason  in  the  title  of  a  1988  installation.) 
Sleep  can  serve  to  restore  an  identity  that  has  been  deformed  by  the 
impact  of  events,  for  dreaming  has  a  regenerative  power,  as  a  source  of 
compensation  for  oppressing  circumstances  and  psychic  pressure.  People  in 
extreme  misery,  for  example,  can  have  pleasant  dreams  nonetheless,  as  if 
the  always  active  unconscious  wanted  to  alleviate  the  horrors  of  reality. 
Metaphorically,  then,  we  can  say  that  the  dream  "works"  whereas  the  flow 
of  information  sleeps.  The  artistic  fusion  of  both  dimensions  in  one  spatial 
arrangement  in  Viola's  work  shows  us  a  world  that  is  fragmented  into  inner 
opposites,  one  that  finds  its  only  unity  in  the  irreconcilable  contradictions  of 
security  and  fear,  protection  and  exposure,  continuum  and  discontinuum, 
harmony  and  dissonance.  Viola's  installations  illustrate  an  understanding  of 
experience  as  an  integrated  system  of  opposing  forces,  which  sustain, 
precisely  because  of  their  antagonistic  character,  the  Utopian  desire  for  a 
harmonious  whole. 

1.  Leonhard  Emmerling,  "Bill  Viola's  Installation  'The  Stopping  Mind,'"  in  Bill  Viola,  Videos 
1976-1991,  exh.  cat.  (Mannheim:  Cinema  Quadrat  a.V.,  1992),  p.  14. 

Ursula  Frohne 


BIOGRAPHY 


SELECTED 
EXHIBITION 
C  ATA  LO  G  U  E  S 


Bill  Viola  was  born  in  1951  in  New 
York  City.  From  1969,  he  studied  at 
the  College  of  Visual  and 
Performing  Arts  of  Syracuse 
University,  Syracuse,  New  York, 
graduating  with  a  Bachelor  of  Fine 
Arts  degree  in  1973. 

During  the  1970s,  Viola  assisted 
Nam  June  Paik  and  Peter  Campus 
with  various  projects,  and  between 

1973  and  1980  worked  with  the 
composer  David  Tudor  and  the 
avant-garde  music  group 
Composers  Inside  Electronics.  From 

1974  to  1976,  he  was  the  technical 
production  manager  of  the 
Art/Tapes/22  Video  Studio  in 
Florence  and,  from  1976  to  1983, 
was  a  visiting  artist  at  the 
WNET/Thirteen  Television 
Laboratory  in  New  York.  During 
this  time,  Viola  traveled  frequently 
to  the  South  Pacific,  Indonesia, 
Australia,  Tunisia,  and  India. 

In  1978,  and  again  in  1983  and 
1989,  the  National  Endowment  for 
the  Arts  awarded  Viola  a  Visual 
Artist  Fellowship  for  his  work  in 
video.  From  1980  to  1981,  he  lived 
in  Japan  on  a  fellowship  from  the 
U.S./Japan  Friendship  Commission, 
and  was  an  artist-in-residence  at 
the  Sony  Corporation's  Atsugi 
Laboratories,  Atsugi,  Japan.  He 
received  a  Video  Artist  Fellowship 
from  the  Rockefeller  Foundation  in 
1982.  In  1983,  he  taught  video  at 
the  California  Institute  for  the  Arts 
in  Valencia.  He  received  the 
Polaroid  Video  Award  for 
outstanding  achievement  in  1984, 
and  spent  part  of  that  year  as 
artist-in-residence  at  the  San  Diego 
Zoo.  Also  in  1984,  he  traveled  to 
Fiji  to  document  the  fire-walking 
ceremony  of  the  South  Indian 
community  in  Suva.  The  John 
Simon  Guggenheim  Memorial 
Foundation  presented  Viola  with  a 
video  stipend  in  1985.  In  1987,  he 
won  the  American  Film  Institute 
Maya  Deren  Award,  and  two  years 
later,  a  John  D.  and  Catherine  T. 


MacArthur  Foundation  Award.  That 
year,  he  traveled  throughout  the 
American  Southwest  to  study 
ancient  Native  American 
archeological  sites  and  rock  art 
In  1993,  he  was  the  first  recipient 
of  the  Medienkunstpreis,  awarded 
by  ZKM  Karlsruhe  and  the 
Siemens  Kulturprogramm.  In  1995, 
he  was  awarded  an  Honorary 
Doctor  of  Fine  Arts  degree  from 
Syracuse  University. 

Among  Viola's  numerous  individual 
exhibitions  since  1973  are  Projects, 
the  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  New 
York,  1979;  Bill  Viola:  Survey  of  a 
Decade,  Contemporary  Arts 
Museum,  Houston,  Texas,  1988; 
Bill  Viola,  Fukui  Fine  Arts  Museum, 
Fukui,  Japan,  1989;  Slowly  Turning 
Narrative,  Institute  of 
Contemporary  Art,  Philadelphia, 
Virginia  Museum  of  Fine  Arts, 
Richmond,  Musee  d'Art 
Contemporain,  Montreal, 
Indianapolis  Museum  of  Art, 
Indianapolis,  Museum  of 
Contemporary  Art,  San  Diego, 
Center  for  the  Fine  Arts,  Miami, 
and  the  Parrish  Art  Museum, 
Southampton,  New  York;  and  Bill 
Viola:  Unseen  Images,  Kunsthalle 
Dusseldorf,  Moderna  Museet, 
Stockholm,  Museo  Nacional  Centro 
de  Arte  Reina  Sofia,  Madrid,  Musee 
Cantonal  des  Beaux-Arts, 
Lausanne,  Whitechapel  Art  Gallery, 
London,  and  Tel  Aviv  Museum  of 
Art,  1992.  Viola  represented  the 
United  States  at  the  Venice 
Biennale  in  1995.  The  group 
shows  in  which  his  work  has 
appeared  include  the  Biennale  de 
Paris,  1975  and  1977;  Biennial 
Exhibition,  Whitney  Museum  of 
American  Art,  1975,  1977,  1979, 
1981,  1983,  1985,  1987,  and  1993; 
Venice  Biennale,  1986;  Passages 
de  I'image,  Centre  Georges 
Pompidou,  Paris,  1990;  and 
Video  Spaces,  the  Museum  of 
Modern  Art,  New  York,  1995. 


INDIVIDUAL 
EXHIBITIONS 

Bill  Viola:  Installations  and 
Videotapes.  New  York:  Museum  of 
Modern  Art,  1987. 

Bill  Viola:  Survey  of  a  Decade. 
Houston:  Contemporary  Arts 
Museum,  1988. 

Bill  Viola.  Fukui,  Japan:  Fukui  Fine 
Arts  Museum,  1990. 

Slowly  Turning  Narrative. 
Philadelphia:  Institute  of 
Contemporary  Art,  University  of 
Pennsylvania;  Richmond:  Virginia 
Museum  of  Fine  Arts,  1992. 

Bill  Viola:  Unseen  Images. 
Dusseldorf:  Kunsthalle  Dusseldorf, 
1992. 

Bill  Viola.  Montreal:  Musee  d'Art 
Contemporain  de  Montreal,  1993. 

Valentini,  Valentina,  ed.  Bill  Viola: 
Vedere  con  la  mente  e  con  it 
cuore.  Rome:  Gangemi,  1993. 

Bill  Viola.  Salzburg:  Ritter 
Klagenfurt  and  Satzburger 
Kunstverein,  1994. 

Bill  Viola:  Images  and  Spaces. 
Madison,  Wis.:  Madison  Art  Center, 
1994. 

Bill  Viola:  Buried  Secrets.  Tempe, 
Ariz.:  Arizona  State  University  Art 
Museum,  Nelson  Fine  Arts  Center; 
Hannover,  Germany:  Kestner- 
Gesellschaft,  1995. 


GROUP 
EXHIBITIONS 

The  Arts  for  Television.  Amsterdam: 
Stedelijk  Museum;  Los  Angeles: 
Museum  of  Contemporary  Art,  1987. 

Avant-Garde  in  the  Eighties.  Los 
Angeles:  Los  Angeles  County 
Museum  of  Art,  1987. 

1987  Biennial  Exhibition.  New  York: 
Whitney  Museum  of  American  Art, 
1987. 


American  Landscape  Video:  The 
Electronic  Grove.  Pittsburgh:  The 
Museum  of  Art,  Carnegie  Institute, 
1988. 

Einleuchten:  Will,  Vorstel  und 
Simul  in  HH.  Hamburg: 
Deichtorhallen,  1989. 

Image  World:  Art  and  Media 
Culture.  New  York:  Whitney 
Museum  of  American  Art,  1989. 

Video-Skulptur:  Retrospektiv  und 
Aktuell,  1963-1989.  Cologne: 
Kolnischer  Kunstverein  and 
DuMont  Kunsthalle,  1989. 

Bienal  de  la  imagen  en 
movimiento  '90.  Madrid:  Museo 
Nacional  Centro  de  Arte  Reina 
Sofia,  1990. 

Eye  for  I:  Video  Self-Portrait.  New 
York:  Independent  Curators 
Incorporated,  1990. 

Metropolis.  Berlin:  Martin-Gropius- 
Bau,  1991. 

Art  and  the  Armory:  Occupied 
Territory.  Chicago:  Museum  of 
Contemporary  Art,  1992. 

Documenta  9.  Kassel:  Documenta, 
1992. 

Feuer,  Wasser,  Erde,  Luft:  Die 
vier  Elemente.  Hamburg: 
Deichtorhallen,  1993. 

Frischluft:  Installation-lnteraktion: 
Videokunst  der  8oer  jahre. 
Duisburg,  Germany:  Wilhelm 
Lehmbruck  Museum  Duisburg, 
1993- 

Rites  of  Passage.  London:  Tate 
Gallery,  1995. 

Video  Spaces.  New  York:  Museum 
of  Modern  Art,  1995. 

Video  d'autore  1986-1995.  Rome: 
Gangemi,  1995. 


63 


THE     SOLOMON      R.     GUGGENHEIM 
FOUNDATION 


Honorary  Trustees  in  Perpetuity 

Solomon  R.  Guggenheim 
Justin  K.  Thannhauser 
Peggy  Guggenheim 

Chairman 

Peter  Lawson-Johnston 

President 

Ronald  0.  Perelman 

Vice-Presidents 

Robert  M.  Gardiner 
Wendy  L-J.  McNeil 

Vice-President  and  Treasurer 

Stephen  C.  Swid 

Director 

Thomas  Krens 

Secretary 

Edward  F.  Rover 

Honorary  Trustee 

Claude  Pompidou 

Trustee,  Ex  Officio 

Jacques  E.  Lennon 

Director  Emeritus 

Thomas  M.  Messer 


Trustees 

Giovanni  Agnelli 
Jon  Imanol  Azua 
Edgar  Bronfman,  Jr. 
The  Right  Honorable  Earl 

Castle  Stewart 
Mary  Sharp  Cronson 
Carlo  De  Benedetti 
Daniel  Filipacchi 
Robert  M.  Gardiner 
Rainer  Heubach 
Barbara  Jonas 
David  H.  Koch 
Thomas  Krens 
Peter  Lawson-Johnston 
Rolf-Dieter  Leister 
Peter  B.  Lewis 
Natalie  Lieberman 
Wendy  L-J.  McNeil 
Edward  H.  Meyer 
Ronald  0.  Perelman 
Michael  M.  Rea 
Richard  A.  Rifkind 
Denise  Saul 
Rudolph  B.  Schulhof 
Terry  Semel 
James  B.  Sherwood 
Raja  Sidawi 
Seymour  Slive 
Stephen  C.  Swid 
John  S.  Wadsworth,  Jr. 
Cornel  West 
Michael  F.  Wettach 
John  Wilmerding 
William  T.  Ylvisaker 


