MIES  VAN  DER  ROME:  ARCHITECT  AS  EDUCATOR 


r'' 


//i'r 


A 


'•*r,^ 


V 


:■.#•% 


.  V  ,'  I 


>-^T 


..;  :<i4"4*. 


ri3v 


^•J*; 


MIES     VAN     DER     ROME:    ARCHITECT    AS     EDUCATOR 


1 

^^^^^ 

! 

1 

1         1         '         1         1 

■  i  1 

c 

t 

1      1 

^  i 

MIES  VAN  DER  ROME:  ARCHITECT  AS  EDUCATOR 


6  June  through  12  July  1986 

Catalogue  for  the  exhibition 

edited  by  Rolf  Achilles,  Kevin  Harrington, 

and  Charlotte  Myhrum 

Mies  van  der  Rohe  Centennial  Project 
Illinois  Institute  of  Technology,  Chicago 


The  Mies  van  der  Rohe  Centennial  Project  dedicates  this  cataiogue  to 
John  Augur  Holabird,  Sr,  FAIA,  (May  4.  1886-May  4,  1945),  respected 
friend  of  Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe. 

His  initiative  and  vision  as  Trustee  of  Armour  Institute  of  Technology 
and  as  Chairman  of  its  Search  Committee  which  brought  Mies  to  Chi- 
cago contributed  significantly  to  changing  the  course  of  architectural 
education  in  America. 


Funding  of  the  Centennial  Project  and  exhibition  has  been  provided  by 
the  Graham  Foundation  for  Advanced  Studies  in  the  Fine  Arts,  the 
National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities,  the  Illinois  Arts  Council,  a 
state  agency,  the  New  House  Foundation,  the  S.O.M.  Foundation  and 
the  following  individuals:  Michael  E.  Breen,  Peter  Carter,  Molly  Cohen, 
George  Danforth.  Joseph  Fujikawa,  Myron  Goldsmith,  Warren  Haber, 
John  Holabird,  Jr.,  Phyllis  Lambert,  Dirk  Lohan,  John  Neil,  Peter 
Palumbo.  H.P.  Davis  Rockwell,  John  B.  Rodgers,  Gene  Summers  and 
Steven  Weiss. 

Cover  photo:  Experimental  photograph.  Photographer  unknown.  Collection  of 
Edward  A.  Duckett.  Catalogue  number  135. 

Frontispiece:  Mies  van  der  Rohe  with  model  of  S.  R.  Crown  Hall.  Photograph  by 
Arthur  Slegel.  Courtesy  Chicago  Historical  Society. 

The  catalogue  is  distributed  by  The  University  of  Chicago  Press 

Library  of  Congress  Catalogue  Card  Number  86-71034 
Clothbound:  ISBN  0-226-31716-1;  Paperbound:  ISBN  0-226-31718-8. 
Copyright  ©  1986.  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology, 
Chicago.  Illinois.  All  rights  reserved. 


Designed  by  Harvey  Retzloff 
Composition  by  Computype" 
Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 
by  Congress  Printing  Company 


CONTENTS 


6  Lenders  to  the  Exhibition 

7  Acknowledgments 

9  Foreword   George  Schipporeit 

11  MIES     VAN      DER     ROME:     ARCHITECT     AS     EDUCATOR 

13  The  Master  of  Humane  Architecture  Reyner  Banham 

17  Machines  a  Mediter  Richard  Padovan 

27  Mies  as  Self-Educator  Fritz  Neumeyer 

37  Mies  van  der  Rohe:  Architect  and  Teacher  in  Germany  Sandra  Honey 

49  Order,  Space,  Proportion  —  MIes's  Curriculum  at  IIT  Kevin  /Harrington 

69  CATALOGUE     OF     THE     EXHIBITION 

70  1     Writing,  Lecturing  and  Building  1919-1929 
72  2    Bauhaus  and  Private  Teaching  1930-1937 
94  3     IIT  Curriculum  1938-1958 

116  4    IIT  as  a  Model  of  a  University  Campus 

122  5    Graduate  Studies  under  Mies  1938-1958 

149  APPENDIX 

151  IIT  Courses  in  Architecture  1938-1958 

155  IIT  Architecture  Faculty  and  Students  1938-1958 

165  Solved  Problems:  A  Demand  on  Our  Building  Methods   IVIies  van  der  Rohe 

167  Explanation  of  Educational  Program   iviies  van  der  Rohe 


LENDERS     TO     THE     EXHIBITION 


The  Art  Institute  of  Chicago 

Bauhaus  Archiv,  Berlin 

Berliner  Bild-Bericht,  Berlin 

Thomas  Burleigh 

Canadian  Centre  for  Architecture,  Montreal 

Chicago  Historical  Society 

George  Danforth 

Edward  A.  Duckett 

Mark  Finfer 

Kenneth  Folgers 

Joseph  Fujikawa 

Feico  Glastra  van  Loon 

Albert  Goers 

Myron  Goldsmith 

Ogden  Hannaford 

R.  Lawrence  J.  Harrison 

Hedrich  Blessing 

John  Burgee  Architects  with  Philip  Johnson 

Raymond  Kliphardt 


Reginald  Malcolmson 

Carter  H.  Manny,  Jr. 

Marcia  Gray  Martin 

John  Munson 

Brigitte  Peterhans 

Richard  Nickel  Committee 

Norman  Ross 

Rudolf  Kicken  Galerie,  Cologne 

David  Sharpe 

Malcolm  Smith 

Edward  Starostovic 

George  Storz 

David  Tamminga 

Michael  Van  Beuren 

John  Vinci 

Yau  Chun  Wong 

Donald  Wrobleski 

Edmond  N.  Zisook 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


Several  years  ago,  when  the  centennial  of  Mies's  birth  seemed  far  away, 
some  people  in  Chicago  and  New  York  began  to  think  about  the  event 
and  how  best  to  honor  the  memory  of  a  great  architect  and  teacher.  It 
was  soon  agreed  that  the  two  important  repositories  of  Mies's  legacy, 
the  Department  of  Architecture,  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology,  Chi- 
cago and  the  Mies  Archive,  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  New  York, 
should  mount  independent  exhibitions  —  one  concentrating  on  Its  le- 
gacy, the  other  on  its  holdings.  In  this  way  IIT  developed  its  exhibition 
and  catalogue  —  Mies  van  der  Rohe:  Architect  as  Educator  and  MoMA 
organized  its  Mies  van  der  Rotie  Centennial  Extilbition.  By  showing 
both  exhibitions  together  in  Chicago  and  in  Berlin,  the  two  centers  of 
Mies's  life,  his  impact  on  the  20th  Century  could  be  thoroughly 
explored.  Both  exhibits,  each  in  its  own  way,  emphasize  a  unique  aspect 
of  the  man,  Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  educator  and  architect. 
Many  people  have  worked  to  create  the  IIT  exhibit  and  catalogue.  None 
has  contributed  more  than  George  Danforth,  Mies's  student,  colleague, 
and  successor  as  Director  of  the  School  of  Architecture.  George's 
seemingly  personal  acquaintance  with  every  student  who  attended  IIT 
from  1938  to  1958  and  his  continued  interest  in  their  careers  is  the 
foundation  upon  which  this  exhibit  and  its  catalogue  Is  built.  George's 
selfless  interest  in  creating  the  finest  possible  tribute  to  Mies  as 
educator  has  been  an  inspiration  to  those  fortunate  enough  to  be  his 
colleagues.  Without  his  memory,  initiative,  attention  to  detail,  humor, 
typing  skills,  sure  eye,  bullying  at  just  the  right  moment  those  that  need 
It,  and  ever-present  good  humor,  much  of  what  follows  in  this  publica- 
tion would  not  be. 


Others  have  also  helped  to  create  this  catalogue  and  the  exhibition.  In 
January  1983  Thomas  L.  Martin,  Jr.,  President  of  IIT,  established  the 
Centennial  Advisory  Committee,  co-chaired  by  George  Danforth  and 
John  Holabird,  Jr.,  architect  and  son  of  the  chairman  of  the  committee 
that  brought  Mies  to  Chicago.  Other  Committee  members  were  Peter 
Beltemacchi,  Harold  Bergen,  Heather  Bilandic,  Myron  Goldsmith,  Ar- 
chibald McClure,  Nancy  Moss,  George  Schipporeit,  David  Sharpe,  Ar- 
thur Takeuchi,  James  Vice,  Willard  White,  representing  trustees,  ad- 
ministrators and  faculty.  George  Schipporeit,  Dean  of  the  College  of 
Architecture,  Planning,  and  Design  has  acted  as  Project  Director.  Car- 
ter H.  Manny,  Jr.  served  as  chairman  of  the  Committee  of  Friends. 
Arthur  Takeuchi  organized  the  series  of  eight  lectures  sponsored  by  IIT 
with  assistance  from  The  Art  Institute  of  Chicago  and  the  Goethe  Insti- 
tute Chicago.  The  executive  body  for  the  Mies  Centennial  Project,  the 
Planning  Committee,  originally  consisted  of  George  Danforth,  Myron 
Goldsmith,  George  Schipporeit,  David  Sharpe,  Arthur  Takeuchi.  and  T. 
Paul  Young.  Initially  the  Project  Curator,  T.  Paul  Young  with  the  assist- 
ance of  Billie  McGrew,  Project  Assistant,  prepared  a  broad  range  of 
planning  documents,  reports,  and  the  N.E.H.  grant  application  on 
which  the  Project  is  based.  The  foundation  they  laid  enabled  the  Project 
to  achieve  its  purpose. 

In  the  fall  of  1 984  and  again  in  the  spring  of  1 985,  John  Sugden,  David 
Haidand  Arthur  Takeuchi  organized  two  weekend  long  colloquia  at  the 
Graham  Foundation  for  students,  former  colleagues  and  friends  of 
Mies.  These  two  events  proved  to  be  very  important  catalysts  for  the 
Project.  They  gave  it  direction  and  meaning,  and  further  helped  all 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


those  who  attended  to  better  understand  the  state  of  knowledge  and 
interest  in  the  work  and  life  of  Mies. 

Special  thanks  to  Phyllis  Lambert  for  her  keen  interest  in  the  ex- 
hibition's direction  and  guidance  in  selecting  essayists  for  the  cata- 
logue: and  Dirk  Lohan  for  his  suggestions  and  support. 
The  day-to-day  direction  of  the  Project  has  been  accomplished  by  Rolf 
Achilles,  with  the  assistance  of  George  Danforth  and  Charlotte 
Myhrum.  John  Vinci  curated  and  designed  the  exhibition  with  the 
assistance  of  George  Danforth  and  Charlotte  Myhrum. 
A  number  of  students  contributed  to  the  Project.  Outstanding  among 
these  is  Donna  J.  Junkroski  who  through  dozens  of  hours  of  reviewing 
microfilm  and  old  class  records  created  a  complete  list  of  students, 
faculty  and  their  classes  during  Mies's  tenure  as  Director.  Other  stu- 
dents who  assisted  the  Project  were  George  Sorich,  model  builder, 
Laurie  Grimmer  and  Michael  Patton. 

In  the  College  of  Architecture,  Planning,  and  Design,  help  was  forth- 
coming from  San  Utsunomiya  and  Bernie  Ivers,  Assistant  Deans, 
Catherine  Howard  and  Sylvia  Smith  in  the  College  Office  and  the  Dean 
of  the  College,  George  Schipporeit. 

In  the  professional  community  many  colleagues  have  been  very 
cooperative.  We  are  especially  indebted  to  the  Bauhaus  Archiv,  Berlin 
and  its  Director  Dr.  Peter  Hahn  for  his  very  generous  assistance  to  the 
point  of  co-sponsorship  of  this  exhibit  in  Berlin.  We  are  also  deeply  in 
debt  for  his  subvention  of  photographic  expenses  and  the  German 
language  edition  of  this  catalogue.  His  colleague  at  the  Bauhaus  Archiv, 
Dr.  Christian  Wolsdorff  has  been  instrumental  in  securing  photographs 
of  the  loaned  works  and  assuring  proper  shipment  of  the  works  to 
Chicago.  Arthur  Drexler,  Director  of  the  Department  of  Architecture 
and  Design  at  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  New  York,  has  been  most 
helpful,  as  have  Eve  Blau  of  the  Canadian  Centre  for  Architecture, 
Montreal,  and  Suzanne  Pastor  of  the  KIcken  Galerie,  Cologne.  Malcolm 
Richardson,  Program  Officer  in  the  Division  of  General  Programs  at  the 


National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities,  provided  guidance  and  en- 
couragement when  the  fate  of  the  Project  looked  most  bleak. 
In  Chicago  we  especially  thank  John  Zukowsky,  Curator  of  the  De- 
partment of  Architecture  at  The  Art  Institute  of  Chicago,  Neil  McClure, 
Director  of  the  Chicago  Architecture  Foundation  and  its  Education 
Director,  Paul  Glassman  for  coordinating  tours;  Wim  de  Wit,  Curator  of 
the  Architectural  Collection  at  the  Chicago  Historical  Society;  Dr.  Wal- 
ter Breuer,  Director,  and  Angela  Greiner,  Program  Assistant  at  the 
Goethe  Institute  Chicago;  Carter  H.  Manny,  Jr.,  Director  of  the  Graham 
Foundation  for  Advanced  Studies  in  the  Fine  Arts;  the  staff  of  Inland 
Architect;  Franz  Schuize;  I.  Michael  Danoff,  Director  of  the  Museum  of 
Contemporary  Art  and  its  Director  of  Public  Relations,  Lisa  Skolnik; 
and  Christian  K.  Laine  of  neocon. 

In  creating  the  catalogue,  Harvey  Retzloff  has  proved  a  most  under- 
standing designer  and  Carl  Reisig  of  Congress  Printing,  a  superb 
printer.  Thanks  especially  to  the  loan  of  a  number  of  computers  and  the 
programming  skills  of  Billie  McGrew,  whose  continuous  Interest  in  the 
Project  saw  it  through  difficult  times  and  paved  the  way  for  a  smooth 
and  speedy  production  of  this  catalogue.  Photography  and  printing  was 
provided  by  Ross-Ehlert,  Inc.,  Hedrich  Blessing,  Cheri  Eisenberg, 
Michael  Tropea  and  Rolf  Achilles. 

Many  individuals  and  firms  have  helped  by  lending  material  to  the 
exhibition  and  lending  counsel.  Among  these  is  Thomas  Burleigh,  who, 
through  a  cache  of  pictures  provided  a  thorough  insight  into  life  at  IIT; 
Jack  Hedrich  of  Hedrich  Blessing;  and  Ivan  Zaknic  of  John  Burgee 
Architects  with  Philip  Johnson;  Norman  Ross  and  the  many  students 
who  lent  slides  of  their  professional  work. 

We  are  particularly  grateful  to  the  Graham  Foundation  for  Advanced 
Studies  in  the  Fine  Arts;  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities; 
the  Illinois  Arts  Council,  a  state  agency;  Phyllis  Lambert;  the  Illinois 
Institute  of  Technology;  numerous  foundations  and  individuals  for  their 
generous  financial  support. 


Mies  van  der  Rohe  Centennial  Project 


8 


FOREWORD 


As  the  institution  that  invited  Mies  in  1937  to  establish  his  innovative 
curriculum  in  its  Department  of  Architecture  and  then  supported  him 
throughout  his  tenure  as  chairman  and  beyond,  the  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology  is  honored  by  giving  recognition  to  Mies's  contribution  to 
architectural  education  with  this  Centennial  celebration  of  Mies  as 
Educator.  Our  endeavors  are,  of  course,  reinforced  by  many  other 
books,  lectures  and  exhibitions  around  the  world,  all  directed  to  a  better 
understanding  of  this  architectural  greatness  so  close  to  us  in  history. 
And  yet,  what  is  the  lesson  to  be  learned? 

For  me,  it  is  to  be  reminded  of  an  exceptional  generation  of  architects  at 
the  turn  of  the  century  who  responded  to  a  world  of  dynamic  social 
change  and  accelerating  technology  and  then  to  view  Mies's  struggle  to 
clarify  a  meaningful  architecture  within  this  context.  Instilled  from 
childhood  with  a  strong  sense  of  craftsmanship  and  the  heritage  of 
timeless  building  materials,  his  will  to  learn  motivated  him  to  leave 
Aachen  in  1905  at  the  age  of  19  and  move  to  Berlin  where  he  appren- 
ticed with  the  leading  designers  and  architects  of  the  day.  For  approx- 
imately the  next  25  years,  the  interaction  with  his  peers,  his  theoretical 
study  of  prototypes  and  the  significance  of  Mies's  own  buildings  pro- 
duced an  architecture  that  was  widely  recognized  for  both  its  simplicity 
and  beauty. 

But  most  important  to  our  Centennial  is  that  his  self-education  pro- 
duced strong  convictions  about  what  he  felt  were  basic  principles  of 
architecture.  These  he  later  translated  into  an  educational  program. 
It  was  his  unrelenting  search  for  a  new  architecture  that  would  evolve 
the  thought  process  of  understanding  what  architecture  should  be  and 


the  related  appropriate  method  of  professional  education.  When  Mies 
became  Director  of  the  Bauhaus  in  1930,  this  school,  famous  for  its 
teaching  process  of  uniting  art  and  technology,  was  reorganized  into  a 
curriculum  of  architectural  education.  The  knowledge  base  required 
for  the  practice  of  architecture,  including  an  understanding  of  mate- 
rials, structural  engineering,  heating  and  ventilating,  cost  estimating, 
comparative  study  of  buildings  and  practical  training  in  the  workshops, 
became  the  prerequisite  for  the  advanced  architecture  seminar  taught 
by  Mies. 

Here,  for  perhaps  the  first  time,  the  early  years  of  learning  the  required 
professional  training  and  technical  skills  were  combined  with  the 
senior  experience  of  developing  refined  advanced  level  architectural 
projects  and  the  study  of  architecture  as  an  art.  After  the  forced  closing 
of  the  Bauhaus  in  1933,  it  was  Mies'scontinuing  concern  with  education 
which  led  to  the  opportunity  of  moving  to  Chicago  and  what  was  to 
become  his  architectural  destiny. 

When  offered  the  directorship  of  the  Department  of  Architecture  at  the 
then  Armour  Institute  he  accepted,  subject  to  administration  approval 
of  his  new  program.  Developed  in  Germany,  refined  in  New  York  and 
adopted  in  Chicago,  the  expanded  curriculum  truly  represented  Mies's 
philosophy  of  architecture.  Submitted  as  a  vertical  diagram,  entitled 
'Program  for  Architectural  Education,'  it  itemized  components  of 
architecturaleducation  which  are  as  validtodayasthey  were  fifty  years 

ago. 

This  new  curriculum  was  first  implemented  during  the  fall  of  1938. 

During  World  War  II,  reduced  enrollment  permitted  the  content  to  be 


FOREWORD 


patiently  fine-tuned  while  at  the  same  time  iviies  was  also  developing  the 
planning  and  architecture  for  the  new  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology 
campus.  The  post-war  program  was  expanded  to  five  years  and  ac- 
credited by  the  National  Architectural  Accrediting  Board. 
Mies's  goal  as  educator  was  to  establish  a  curriculum  concentrating  on 
those  areas  of  architectural  education  which  could  be  taught.  His  role 
as  teacher  was  to  work  directly  with  the  advanced  student.  At  this  level 
the  teaching  of  architecture  and  the  practice  of  architecture  became 
one  because  his  buildings  represented  and,  in  fact,  demonstrated  the 
same  principles  taught  at  the  school. 

The  curriculum  is  structured  as  if  it  were  a  building  or,  more  appropri- 
ately, architecture.  Carefully  sequenced  and  fully  articulated,  each 
learning  experience  builds:  always  from  the  simple  to  the  complex. 
The  educational  objective  is  to  give  each  student  a  disciplined  method 
of  work  and  problem  solving  based  on  acquiring  the  significant  knowl- 
edge and  skills  of  the  profession.  During  the  first  three  years,  the 
student  begins  by  developing  drawing  ability  and  visual  perception, 
progressing  through  Construction  as  an  understanding  of  principles, 
acquiring  the  technical  knowledge  of  related  Engineering  and  studying 
Function  as  a  way  of  understanding  problems  and  building  types. 
These  three  years  of  comprehensive  background  are  then  applied  to 
the  development  of  advanced  architectural  projects  which  explore 
more  detailed  spatial  and  visual  considerations  thus  making  the  fourth 
and  fifth  years  the  synthesis  of  all  previous  work.  Underlying  each  of 


these  student  problems  is  the  motivation  to  achieve  an  optimum  level  of 
quality  as  a  fundamental  tenet  of  good  architecture. 
The  faculty  is  unified  by  a  conviction  in  both  the  method  and  philosophy 
of  this  architectural  program.  Yet,  there  is  always  the  constant  remin- 
der that  these  ideas,  fostered  with  freshness  and  creativity,  not  become 
dogma.  It  was  never  intended  that  the  curriculum  become  a  formula  for 
providing  answers,  but  rather  a  matrix  sensitive  to  adaptability. 
To  many  who  view  the  brick  studies,  the  work  represents  only  the 
unrelenting  discipline  of  drawing  brick  after  brick  —  two  lines  for  each 
joint.  They  see  only  the  surface.  Yet,  the  principle  of  brick  bonding, 
when  fully  understood,  is  a  building  material  system  having  an  order 
and  a  logic  with  almost  unlimited  possibilities.  Moreover,  this  same 
methodology  and  understanding  can  be  applied  to  the  problem  solving 
of  any  new  construction  technology  or  building  material.  When  ex- 
tended throughout  the  curriculum,  this  philosophy  of  teaching  Princi- 
ple instills  in  each  student  an  ability  to  make  independent  decisions. 
The  challenge  of  both  faculty  and  students  is  to  continually  test  this 
theory  with  the  application  to  actual  projects.  This  process  is  essential 
to  the  vitality  of  the  curriculum  and  its  relevance  to  current  architec- 
tural issues.  Within  the  broad  range  of  architectural  education  NT  rep- 
resents an  academic  tradition  consistent  with  today's  technology  and 
appropriate  for  our  time. 

It  is  in  this  spirit  that  we  honor  Mies's  contribution  to  architectural 
education  and  begin  his  second  hundred  years. 


George  Schipporeit 

Project  Director 

Mies  van  der  Rohe  Centennial  Project 

Dean 

College  of  Architecture,  Planning  and  Design 


10 


MIES  VAN  DER  ROME:  ARCHITECT  AS  EDUCATOR 


Reyner  Banham,  an  architectural  historian,  is  a  Professor  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  California,  Santa  Cruz.  His  many  books  include  Theory  and 
Design  In  the  First  Machine  Age  and  Age  of  the  Masters. 

Fritz  Neumeyer,  an  architectural  historian,  is  an  Associate  Professor  of 
the  History  and  Theory  of  Architecture  at  the  Technische  Unlverstat, 
Berlin.  He  recently  published  M/es  van  der  Rohe  —  Das  kunstlose  Wort: 
Gedanken  zur  Baukunst. 

Richard  Padovan  lives  in  England.  He  worked  as  an  architect  for  15 
years  and  has  taught  extensively  in  England  and  on  the  Continent.  He 
now  writes  mainly  on  Modernism  and  has  recently  translated  Dom 
Hans  van  der  Laan's  Architectonic  Space. 

Sandra  Honey  is  an  architect  and  architectural  historian  living  In  Ha- 
rare. Zimbabwe.  Her  articles  on  Mies  have  been  widely  published. 

Kevin  Harrington  teaches  architectural  history  at  IIT  where  he  is  an 
Associate  Professor.  Earlier  he  published  Changing  Ideas  on  Architec- 
ture in  the  Encyciopedie.  1 750-1776.  He  is  currently  at  work  on  a  study 
of  the  IIT  Campus. 


12 


THE      MASTER     OF      HUMANE     ARCHITECTURE 

Reyner  Banham 


Where  now  is  Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  the  humanitarian  who  taught 
his  students  to  concern  themselves  over  the  convenient  design  of  bag- 
gage claim  areas  and  the  comfortable  height  of  door  handles?  Where 
now  Mies  the  humanist  who  could  quote  the  Fathers  of  the  Church  in 
the  original  Latin  and  taught  his  students  to  know  and  love  the  great 
periods  of  architecture's  history?  Where,  too,  is  Mies  the  humane 
pedagogue  who  sought  to  discover  his  students'  strengths  and  lacks, 
and  taught  them  to  use  their  own  eyes,  trust  their  own  judgment? 
It  is  almost  as  if  that  kind  of  Mies  van  der  Rohe  had  never  existed,  never 
taught  at  the  Bauhaus  and  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology.  The  world 
seems  bent  on  remembering  only  some  legendary  master  of  relentless 
rationalism,  the  rigid  exponent  of  a  single  structural  system  who 
crushed  all  clients  and  students  into  one  invariable  Procrustean  build- 
ing type.  For  this,  no  doubt,  his  success  has  been  largely  to  blame,  and 
for  the  ease  with  which  the  superficialities  of  his  classic  buildings  could 
be  imitated  almost  everywhere  without  any  understanding  of  what  lay 
behind  them.  And,  too,  his  successors  may  have  seemed  too  much 
mere  followers,  continuing  a  grand  educational  program  whose  parts 
and  procedures  they  had  not  helped  to  forge,  but  were  nevertheless 
loath  to  change  because  they  had  received  these  lessons  of  the  master 
as  revealed  truth. 

Even  more,  perhaps.  It  is  that  striving  for  perfection  that  informed  his 
own  work  and  was  inculcated  in  all  those  who  came  under  his  direct 
influence,  IIT  students  included.  The  object  of  some  early  student  exer- 
cise might  be,  for  instance,  to  draw  a  perfect  line  or  set  of  lines,  true, 
parallel  and  precise.  Every  student  who  by  diligence  and  determination 


eventually  mastered  this  demanding  discipline  would,  of  course,  trea- 
sure the  sheet  of  paper  on  which  that  perfect  line  was  finally  drawn, 
rejecting  all  others.  That  sheet  would  be  proudly  flourished  at  family 
and  friends,  enshrined  In  the  portfolio  that  was  shown  to  other  schools 
and  prospective  employers,  and  if  it  survived,  stood  a  fair  chance  of 
being  reproduced  in  articles  about  IIT  or  the  future  of  architectural 
education. 

And  as  an  illustration  of  the  Miesian  method  of  architectural  education  it 
would  be  delusion,  a  deception.  For  it  was  only  a  testimony  that  the 
exercise  had  been  completed  —  the  actual  educational  process,  the  real 
learning  that  made  a  Mies  student  a  Mies  student,  was  what  was  re- 
corded on  all  those  previous  sheets  of  paper,  the  rejected  versions,  the 
smudges  and  broken  pencil  points,  the  blots  and  tear  stains  even.  There 
is  coffee  and  midnight  oil  involved  here,  as  well  as  those  materials  of  the 
drafting  table  that  Mies's  students  were  taught  to  employ  so  meticul- 
ously —  not  to  mention  the  advice,  consciously  sought  or  gratuitiously 
given,  and  the  commentary,  benign  or  satirical,  of  practically  everyone 
else  in  the  studio,  including  the  teacher. 

The  architectural  profession  is  too  apt  to  judge  the  quality  of  its  educa- 
tional institutions  solely  by  end  products  and  not  by  processes  -  hence 
all  those  conversations,  and  not  just  at  IIT,  on  the  lines  of  "What  hap- 
pened to  old  whats-hls-face?  You  never  hear  about  him  now  but  he  was 
a  brilliant  student."  Alas,  he  may  merely  have  been  brilliant  at  drawing 
perfect  lines,  and  performing  other  studio  party  pieces,  and  never 
understood  the  process  by  which  he  acquired  that  skill.  A  great  teacher 
does  not  mistake  drawing  skills  for  education  and  -  more  importantly 


13 


THE      MASTER      OF      HUMANE      ARCHITECTURE 


—  sees  to  it  that  the  students  never  confuse  them  either.  But  the  outsider 
looking  only  at  the  end  products  of  the  work  done  at  IIT  might  well  be 
misled.  The  more  nearly  perfect  they  were,  the  better  they  concealed 
the  human  drama,  the  intellectual  progress,  that  lay  behind  the 
achievement. 

But  in  any  field  of  creative  activity,  a  discipline  totally  mastered  is  the 
essential  support  of  the  ability  to  create  at  liberty,  the  secure  vehicle  of 
fantasy.  For  Mies,  as  for  most  of  the  great  teachers  of  architecture,  this 
mastery  of  drawing  was  also  a  kind  of  analogy  for  the  whole  process  of 
learning.  "We  learn  to  keep  our  paper  clean  and  our  pencil  sharp."  he 
would  say  with  the  hint  of  a  wink,  as  if  implying  that  a  whole  pedagogy 
of  architecture  was  in  that  saying;  something  about  keeping  our  under- 
standing uncluttered  and  our  critical  faculties  finely  honed,  no  doubt. 
though  Mies's  utterances  always  seemed  hermetic  or  oblique,  enough 
to  be  open  to  various  readings,  almost  like  those  of  the  great  masters  of 
Zen  philosophy. 

It  is  a  classic  Zen  paradox  that  only  absolute  subjection  to  an  unforgiv- 
ing discipline  can  justify  the  demand  to  be  free,  "First  acquire  a  faultless 
technique,  then  forget  it .  .  .  "  was  a  favorite  Zen  quotation  of  Walter 
Gropius,  Mies's  predecessor  at  the  Bauhaus.  But  there  is  no  Mies  story 
that  ends  with  the  classic  Zen  envoi  "the  master  struck  him  and  passed 
on."  for  Mies  was  gentle  in  his  ruthlessness,  yet  his  pedagogic  method 
must  often  have  seemed  equally  gnomic.  He  rarely  corrected  a  stu- 
dent's work  (or  that  of  assistants  in  his  office)  or  showed  them  how  a 
design  should  be  done  better.  Rather,  he  told  them  in  front  of  their 
drawings  that  something  would  not  work,  that  a  better  solution  to  this 
or  that  was  needed.  The  rest  was  up  to  them  to  discover  or  work  out. 
They  were  not  alone  or  without  help,  however.  In  the  big  single  volume 
of  S.R.  Crown  Hall,  without  partitions  or  hierarchy  (other  than  the 
sequential  location  of  the  five-year  cohorts  of  students)  everybody's 
business  was  everybody  else's  business  —  or  could  be.  The  accumu- 
lated wisdom  and  experience  of  each  year  above  was  handily  available 
to  each  year  below,  to  be  tapped  by  observation,  discussion  or  intellec- 
tual osmosis.  By  processes  analogous  to  the  discipline  of  continuous 
self-improvement  learned  in  the  drawing  classes,  better  solutions  were 
found  — self-evidently  better  in  the  eyes  of  the  students  themselves. 
But  only,  that  is,  if  they  had  the  mental  capacities  to  understand  and 
apply  the  lessons  of  the  discipline.  That  was  the  method  at  the  heart  of 
the  gnomic  d  iscourse  of  the  studio,  and  for  those  who  failed  to  grasp  the 


method  (and  there  were  many,  as  there  always  will  be)  there  was  the 
very  considerable  consolation  that  they  had  at  least  acquired  such 
formidable  drawing  skills  that  they  were  instantly  employable  almost 
anywhere.  And  furthermore,  they  had  been  very  thoroughly  schooled 
in  the  processes  of  assembly  of  a  repertoire  of  modest  buildings  out  of  a 
closely  prescribed  range  of  materials,  from  wood  and  brick  to  steel  and 
glass.  The  repertoire  may  have  been  as  small  as  the  buildings  were 
modest  and  the  materials  restricted,  but  here  again,  extension  to  other 
scales  and  materials  were  available  to  any  student  smart  enough  to 
draw  an  analogy. 

Somewhere  in  all  this,  Mies  seems  to  have  rediscovered  something  like 
the  kernel  of  the  true  substance  of  studio  teaching  as  originally  elabo- 
rated at  the  Ecole  des  Beaux-Arts.  As  every  genuine  product  of  the 
Ecole  has  tirelessly  insisted,  what  went  on  in  studio  was  drawing  as  an 
instrument  of  education,  but  that  the  education  only  really  started  when 
the  master  seized  upon  one  particular  student's  project  and  made  it  the 
instance  of  a  c//scoursst7r/e  methode  for  all  the  rest  of  the  studio  to  hear 
and  —  hopefully  —  to  understand.  Mies's  discourse  was  less  prolix  (to 
put  it  mildly)  than  that  of  the  great  professors  at  the  Ecole,  and  for  that 
reason  more  to  be  treasured.  If  remembered  fragments  of  this  kind  of 
discourse  became  lodged  permanently  in  the  minds  of  students  of  the 
Ecole  des  Beaux-Arts,  how  much  more  true  it  was  of  the  students  from 
NT;  maxims  were  recalled  and  trotted  out  in  later  years,  in  and  out  of 
context.  Out  of  context,  of  course,  they  were  almost  incomprehensible 
even  to  NT  graduates.  Because  they  seemed  so  opaque  to  other  under- 
standing, they  were  usually  glossed  by  references  to  the  aphorisms  of 
Mies's  "Inaugural"  lecture  of  1938,  or  the  categories  of  the  formal 
curriculum  of  IIT.  Thus,  "we  might  do  that  when  we  build  on  the  moon" 
(apparently  first  uttered  without  further  explication)  seems  to  have 
been  paired  in  memory  with  the  opening  phrase  of  the  Inaugural  "All 
education  must  begin  with  the  practical  side  of  life"  and  taken  to  mean 
that  it  was  not  practicable  to  whatever  that  was  here  on  Earth. 
But  Mies  might  have  meant  a  number  of  other  things  by  this  quip. 
Carrying  back  observations,  made  impromptu  about  particular  de- 
signs. Into  the  measured  cadences  and  diagrammatic  clarity  of  formal 
documents,  can  lead  to  "understandings"  that  can  be  total  hogwash, 
and  there  are  good  reasons  for  this.  One  Is  that  official  philosophies  of 
architecture  schools  are  essentially  ceremonial  documents;  they  de- 
scribe all  sorts  of  Important  topics  and  attitudes,  some  almost 


14 


THE      MASTER     OF      HUMANE      ARCHITECTURE 


peripheral  to  the  teaching  of  design,  but  of  grave  concern  to  anyone 
who  proposes  to  use  other  people's  resources  in  order  to  erect  struc- 
tures that  may  affect  the  quality  of  llfeof  generations  yet  to  come  —  but 
how  often  (and  not  just  at  NT)  has  the  architecture  produced  under  such 
benevolent  curricula  seemed  to  bear  no  relation  to  what  a  "common 
reader"  might  suppose  these  curricular  statements  to  mean.  All  verbal 
formulae  about  architecture  that  employ  the  word  organic,  for  instance 
(whether  uttered  by  Mies  or  by  Frank  Lloyd  Wright)  need  to  be  meas- 
ured warily  against  the  architecture  produced.  The  honesty  with  which 
they  were  promulgated  in  no  way  reduces  the  potential  confusions  that 
can  be  caused  by  Mies's  extraordinary  use  of  the  word  to  mean  "neither 
mechanistic  nor  idealistic." 

Secondly,  the  elegant  and  rational  diagrams  that  constitute  a  complete 
curriculum  of  study,  at  NT  or  anywhere  else,  have  (as  Mies's  admirer,  the 
English  architect,  educator  and  legislator,  Richard  Llewelyn  Davies 
once  admitted  in  a  moment  of  candor)  "no  predictive  value  about  what 
will  be  studied,  merely  that  students  are  legally  required  to  be  in  certain 
classrooms  at  certain  times."  Curricula  cannot  guarantee  that  the 
words  to  be  heard  will  refer  to  the  posted  topic  or,  if  they  do,  that  they 
will  be  worth  the  effort  of  listening  —  indeed,  in  most  schools,  the 
words  worth  the  effort  of  listening  will  refer  to  anything  but  the  posted 
topics!  Much  as  the  clarity  and  logic  of  the  NT  curriculum  are  admired 
by  the  school's  alumni,  they  still  seem  to  me  too  abstract  in  their  ele- 
gance to  be  more  than  an  ideal  diagram. 

Students  for  almost  two  decades  at  NT  were  extraordinarily  fortunate, 
therefore,  in  that  the  curriculum  was  taught  either  by  Mies  himself  or  by 
close  associates  who  genuinely  understood  the  disciplines  and  topics 
offered  in  the  way  that  he  did,  but  also  the  crucial  but  ineffable  material, 
the  design  maneuvers,  the  hidden  agendas  and  subtexts  about  moral 
and  constructional  attitudes.  For  these  were  also  imparted,  often  with- 
out either  faculty  or  students  fully  realizing  that  this  was  what  was 
happening.  Those  unformulated  but  deeply  held  attitudes  were  the  ones 
that  gave  the  contexts  in  which  the  gnomic  sayings  of  the  studio  made 
senseandthey  were  also  what  put  the  breath  of  life  and  the  potential  for 
great  design  into  the  empty  skeleton  of  the  curriculum  which  for  all  its 
logical  progression  through  exercises  of  rising  complexity  and  subtlety, 
still  strayed  little  beyond  the  categories  and  received  opinions  of  prog- 
ressive education  in  Baukunst  at  the  time.  For  credibility,  it  needed  to 
stand  on  a  consensus  that  made  sense  in  Chicago. 


And  if  those  were  not  yet  received  opinions  in  1937,  when  the  earliest 
version  of  the  NT  curriculum  was  first  promulgated,  they  very  rapidly 
acquired  that  status  after  the  Second  World  War,  so  that  the  IIT  cur- 
riculum became,  with  local  variations,  a  kind  of  international  standard. 
Insofar  as  it  didn't  work  outside  of  IIT  —  and  it  rarely  did  —  it  was  not 
because  of  the  opportunistic  local  variations,  the  preferred  or  man- 
dated omissions  and  insertions  of  other  subject  matter,  but  simply 
because  it  was  not  being  taught  by  Mies  and  his  circle.  There  is  a  very 
obvious  parallel  here  in  the  failure  of  the  attempt  to  improve  design- 
teaching  in  a  number  of  schools  by  the  application  of  "the  Bauhaus 
system,"  which,  again  proved  to  be  only  a  bunch  of  chapter  headings 
and  formal  imitations  of  student  exercises  culled  from  the  literature,  but 
lacking  the  flesh  and  blood  context  —  the  living  presence  of  the  old 
Bauhauslern  —  from  which  they  had  been  born  in  the  first  place. 
So  we  come  back  to  the  primacy  of  Mies,  the  singular  man  himself  —  or, 
rather,  the  plural  men  and  women  who  composed  his  faculties  and 
office  staff,  for  Mies  ever  and  properly  gave  credit  to  those  with  whom 
he  worked  in  the  studio  and  the  office.  That  credit  was  not  always  given 
in  print,  which  ruffled  some  sensibilities,  but  it  was  always  given  in 
conversation  and  —  if  overheard  —  was  usually  given  straight  back: 
"and  if  it  wasn't  for  you,  chief,  I  wouldn't  even  be  here!"  For  the  ultimate 
paradox  of  Mies,  the  supposed  arch-priest  of  the  systematic  and  ra- 
tional, was  that  he  operated  In  so  many  ways  in  a  manner  that  de- 
manded, quietly  and  effectively,  an  absolute  and  irrational  loyalty  to 
himself  as  a  person,  but  more  to  the  deeply  believed  sets  of  procedures 
and  attitudes  that  he  had  embodied  in  the  curriculum  and  gave  life  to  by 
his  presence. 

His  best  assistants,  students  or  disciples  seemed  to  sense  this  even 
before  they  met  him.  They  seemed  to  discern  within  the  formal  mate- 
riality and  rational  ordering  of  his  buildings  some  immanence  of  the 
man  himself,  warm,  humane  and  infinitely  demanding.  Someof  us  who 
were  not  gifted  enough  to  discern  this  before  meeting  him.  saw  his 
buildings  very  differently  after  we  had  confronted  the  solid,  leather- 
faced  reality  himself.  We  now  saw  them  as  works  of  rational  and 
humane  imagination,  works  of  undoubted  Modernism  in  which  the 
values  of  tradition  subtly  endured.  And  we  then  saw,  in  the  works  of  his 
mere  imitators,  the  absence  of  exactly  those  fundamental  qualities,  but 
in  the  work  of  his  truest  students  and  most  trusted  collaborators,  we 
found  the  fundamental  principles  and  attitudes  present,  even  when  the 


15 


THE      MASTER      OF      HUMANE      ARCHITECTURE 


idiom  of  the  design  was  sometlning  different.  I  remember  staring  with 
frozen  admiration  at  the  footing  of  the  columns  of  the  Chicago  Civic 
Center  one  Icy,  bitter  morning  in  1964  or  so,  and  thlnl^ing  "Mies 
wouldn't  have  done  that .  .  .  but  young  Brownson  (IIT,  B  Arch  "48,  M 
Arch  '54)  wouldn't  have  done  it  without  Mies." 

It  is  the  tritest  and  truest  of  all  accolades  to  great  teachers  that  they 
taught  their  students  'to  thine  own  self  be  true."  That  is  what  the  world, 
currently  obsessed  with  the  idea  of  Mies  as  some  Kind  of  tyrant  bent  on 
Imposing  a  single  reductionist  style,  does  not  yet  want  to  believe  of  him, 
but  in  the  end  it  will  have  to,  because  that  is  what  he  did.  The  selves  to 
which  they  were  true  were  not  always  noble  souls  or  designers  of 
genius,  and  the  truth  they  could  generate  might  be  modest,  but  they  all 
did  what  they  could  do  on  the  basis  of  a  better  understanding  of  the 
practice  of  architecture,  an  understanding  which  may  have  been  nar- 
row In  its  footings  in  the  art  of  building,  but  was  firm  enough  to  support 
whatever  expansive  visions  might  come  to  them  in  their  later  lives  as 
professionals  of  architecture. 


16 


MACHINES     A      MEDITER 

Richard  Radovan 


The  theme  of  the  Centennial  Exhibition  is  Mies  van  der  Rohe: 
Architect  as  Educator.  It  aims  to  show  how  in  his  role  as  educator  Mies, 
the  architect,  set  out  to  teach  future  architects  how  to  build.  The  aim 
of  this  essay  is  complementary  to  this:  to  consider  how  Mies,  the 
educator,  setout  to  make  buildings  —  objects  of  meditation  —  thatteach 
one  how  to  think.  In  Mies's  own  words:  "I  want  to  examine  my 
thoughts  in  action  ....  I  want  to  do  something  in  order  to  be  able  to 
think."' 

This  statement  implies  a  two-way  relationship  between  the  mind  and 
things:  not  only  does  the  intellect  form  the  things  it  makes,  but  these 
things  in  turn  "in-form"  the  intellect.  The  idea  that  knowledge  is  a 
mutual  relation  or  correspondence  between  things  and  the  mind  is 
contained  in  Aquinas's  famous  definition  of  truth  as  adaequatio  rei  et 
intellectus.  The  Latin  phrase  has  been  quoted  repeatedly  in  studies  on 
Mies,  and  he  himself  constantly  cited  it  and  clearly  attached  great 
significance  to  it  for  the  understanding  of  his  architecture: 

It  then  became  clear  to  me  that  it  was  not  the  task  of  architecture  to  Invent  form.  I 
tried  to  understand  what  that  task  was.  I  asked  Peter  Behrens,  but  he  could  not 
give  me  an  answer.  He  did  not  ask  that  question.  The  others  said,  "What  we  build 
is  architecture,"  but  we  weren't  satisfied  with  this  answer.  Maybe  they  didn't 
understand  the  question.  We  tried  to  find  out.  We  searched  in  the  quarries  of 
ancient  and  medieval  philosophy.  Since  we  knew  that  it  was  a  question  of  truth, 
we  tried  to  find  out  what  the  truth  really  was.  We  were  very  delighted  to  find  a 
definition  of  truth  by  St.  Thomas  Aquinas:  Adequatio  Intellectus  et  rei.  or  as  a 
modern  philosopher  expresses  it  in  the  language  of  today:  "Truth  is  the  signifi- 
cance of  fact."  I  never  forgot  this.  It  was  very  helpful,  and  has  been  a  guiding  light. 
To  find  out  what  architecture  really  is  took  me  fifty  years  —  half  a  century.^ 


Yet  until  Franz  Schuize  published  his  critical  biography  in  1985  no 
writer  on  Mies,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  had  examined  the  meaning  and 
context  of  the  phrase,  considered  its  specific  relevance  to  his  work,  or 
even  taken  the  trouble  to  translate  it.  The  average  architectural  reader, 
disconcerted  by  the  Latin,  has  usually  been  ready  enough  to  accept  the 
words  of  the  "modern  philosopher"  (in  fact  Max  Scheler)  as  a  satisfac- 
tory translation.  But  as  Schuize  points  out,  "Truth  is  the  significance  of 
fact"  is  not  quite  the  same  as  "Truth  is  the  correspondence  of  thing  and 
intellect . .  .  Still,  since  Mies  was  not  a  trained  philosopher,  he  evidently 
found  the  two  statements  close  enough  to  his  own  view  to  be  effectively 
identical."^ 

This  raises  a  doubt,  which  may  as  well  be  faced  right  away,  as  to 
whether  Mies  himself  really  understood  what  Aquinas  meant,  or 
bothered  to  seek  further  once  he  had  hit  on  a  maxim  that  seemed  to 
reflect  his  own  preconceptions.  If  that  were  the  case,  the  present  inves- 
tigation would  have  very  little  point.  However,  the  recollections  of 
Mies's  friends  and  associates  confirm  that  despite  his  lack  of  any 
philosophical  training  his  lifelong  interest  in  philosophy  was  deeply 
serious,  and  certainly  went  far  beyond  a  superficially  learned  dress- 
ing up  of  his  architectural  rationale.  Schuize  describes  how  to  the  end  of 
his  life  he  would  struggle  to  understand  philosophical  and  scientific 
texts: 

He  read  as  he  always  had,  and  much  the  same  philosophical  fare,  though  his 
earlier  preoccupation  with  morphological  subjects  shifted  . . .  towards  an  inter- 
est in  physics  and  cosmology.  He  labored  earnestly  at  this,  poring  over  the  same 
texts  in  German  and  English  by  Werner  Heisenberg  and  Erwin  Schrodinger  and 


17 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


sometimes  finding  himself  unable  to  understand  what  he  had  read.  Typically,  he 
would  go  back  to  It  again  and  again,  Insisting  .  .  .  that  it  was  Imperative  to  learn 
the  deeper  truth  he  knew  was  there." 

This  does  not  sound  like  the  man  who  would  seize  on  Aquinas's  defini- 
tion as  an  impressive  slogan,  without  probing  further  into  what  it 
meant.  It  was  my  own  curiosity  about  its  real  meaning,  and  a  vague 
intuition  that  it  might  throw  new  light  on  Mies's  beliefs  and  on  the 
evolution  of  his  architecture,  that  were  the  original  motivations  behind 
the  writing  of  this  article. 

The  problem  of  the  relation  between  the  human  intellect  and  things 
(either  natural  or  man-made)  has  engaged  and  divided  philosophers 
since  the  Greeks.  For  Plato,  reality  lay  in  the  immutable  spiritual  world 
of  rational  ideas  or  "Forms"  (such  as  the  self-evident  truths  of 
geometry)  and  not  in  the  flickering  shadow  of  those  ideal  forms  pro- 
jected on  the  wall  of  the  cave  In  which,  while  the  soul  remains  impris- 
oned in  the  body,  we  are  forced  to  lie  chained.  In  a  former  state  the  soul 
has  known  all  truth,  and  the  discovery  of  truth  is  simply  the  recollection, 
through  reasoning,  of  this  dimly  remembered  knowledge.  Hence  truth 
is  to  be  sought  in  the  mind  and  not  in  material  things. 
But  like  Aristotle,  Aquinas  identifiesforms  with  their  individual  material 
manifestations,  and  rejects  Plato's  doctrine  of  the  latency  of  truth  in  the 
mind.  This  has  two  important  consequences,  which  I  believe  are  rele- 
vant to  an  understanding  of  Mies's  architecture.  First,  it  follows  that 
things  are  the  source  from  which  the  intellect  acquires  ideas:  "Our 
intellect  draws  knowledge  from  natural  things,  and  is  measured  by 
them."^ 

However  a  problem  now  arises  (and  this  Is  the  second  consequence)  as 
to  how  the  particular  impressions  received  by  the  senses  are  converted 
into  thinkable  concepts.  For  according  to  Aquinas. 

Our  intellect  cannot  have  direct  and  primary  knowledge  of  individual  material 
objects.  This  is  because  the  principle  of  Individuation  of  material  objects  Is 
individual  matter;  and  our  intellect  understands  by  abstracting  ideas  from  such 
matter.  Now  what  is  abstracted  from  individual  matter  Is  the  universal.  Hence 
our  intellect  knows  directly  the  universal  only.^ 

Plato's  theory  that  forms  exist  apart  from  matter  and  are  therefore 
thinkable  had  avoided  this  problem.  By  denying  the  separate  existence 
of  forms.  Aquinas  is  forced  to  postulate  a  special  faculty,  the  "agent 
intellect,"  with  the  power  to  convert  sense-data  into  thinkable  objects 


by  abstracting  universal  essences  from  their  material  conditions.  But 
unlike  Plato's  Forms,  these  universals  have  no  existence  outside  the 
mind.  Nor.  being  abstractions,  are  they  identical  with  the  individual 
form  of  the  thing  in  itself.  That  is  why  Aquinas  defines  truth  as  a 
"correspondence, "  and  not  as  a  property,  either  of  the  thing  or  of  the 
intellect: 

For  true  knowledge  consists  in  the  correspondence  of  thing  and  Intellect  {ratio 
veri  conslstit  In  adaequatlone  rei  et  intellectus),  not  the  identity  of  one  and  the 
same  thing  to  itself,  but  the  correspondence  between  different  things.  Hence  the 
Intellect  first  arrives  at  truth  when  it  acquires  something  proper  to  It  alone  —  the 
Idea  of  the  thing  —  which  corresponds  to  the  thing,  but  which  the  thing  outside 
the  mind  does  not  have.' 

Unfortunately  Aquinas  does  not  specify  whether  the  intellect  draws 
knowledge  from  man  made  things,  as  well  as  from  natural  ones.  What 
interests  him  is  the  analogy  between  the  intellect  of  the  artist  and  the 
divine  intelligence,  in  their  creative  function: 

Our  intellect  draws  knowledge  from  natural  things,  and  is  measured  by  them; 
but  they  are  measured  in  turn  by  the  divine  intellect,  which  contains  all  created 
things  in  the  same  way  as  man  made  things  are  contained  In  the  mind  of  the 
artist.  Therefore  the  divine  Intellect  measures,  but  is  not  measured;  natural 
things  both  measure  and  are  measured;  and  our  intellect  is  measured,  but  does 
not  measure  natural  things,  only  man  made  ones." 

However,  if  man  made  things  are  not  also  a  source  of  information  for 
the  human  intellect,  alongside  natural  ones,  the  whole  chain  of  depen- 
dence —  from  God,  through  nature  and  man.  to  art  —  ends  in  a  blind 
alley.  It  is  far  more  in  keeping  with  Aquinas's  general  world  view  for  the 
products  of  the  intellect  to  return  to  and  perfect  it.  just  as  he  regards  the 
whole  of  creation  as  intended  to  return  to  God:  "The  emanation  of 
creatures  from  God  would  beimperfect  unless  they  returned  to  Him  in 
equal  measure."^ 

For  the  analogy,  which  Aquinas  constantly  draws,  between  artistic 
creation  and  divine  creation  to  be  complete,  one  must  conclude 
likewise  that  "the  emanation  of  works  of  art  from  the  human  intellect 
would  be  imperfect  unless  they  returned  to  that  intellect  in  equal  mea- 
sure." 

Thus  the  work  of  art,  as  a  concretization  of  human  thought,  placed  "out 
there"  in  the  world  of  natural  things,  enables  us  "to  examine  our 
thoughts  in  action,"  as  Mies  put  it,  "in  order  to  be  able  to  think." 


18 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


Doric  Temple,  Segesta.  Sicily.  Late  5th 
Century  B.C.  Courtesy  of  Rolf  Achilles. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Farnsworth 
House.  Piano.  1945-50,  Courtesy  of 
Hedrich  Blessing. 


Furthermore,  since  according  to  Aquinas  "our  intellect  is  not  directly 
capable  of  knowing  anything  that  is  not  universal,"  it  follows  that  the 
work  of  art,  the  man  made  thing,  is  more  directly  and  completely 
knowable  than  natural  things.  Originating  from  an  infinite  and  un- 
created intelligence,  they  cannot  be  fully  apprehended  by  our  finite 
created  intellect;  but  the  man  made  thing,  which  originates  in  that  finite 
intellect,  embodies  the  rational  and  universal  forms  of  human  thought, 
and  is  directly  intelligible.  Compared  with  the  endless  nuances,  sub- 
tleties and  complexities  of  nature,  art  appears  crude  and  primitive;  but 
for  the  intellect  it  has  a  special  immediacy  and  clarity.  Maritain  writes  in 
Art  and  Scholasticism  that: 

.  .  .in  the  beauty  which  has  been  termed  connatural  to  man  and  is  peculiar  to 
human  art  this  brilliance  of  form,  however  purely  intelligible  it  may  be  in  itself,  is 
apprehended  in  the  sensible  and  by  the  sensible,  and  not  separately  from  it ...  . 
The  mind  then,  spared  the  least  effort  of  abstraction,  rejoices  without  labor  and 
without  discussion.  It  is  excused  its  customary  task,  it  has  not  to  extricate 
something  intelligible  from  the  matter  in  which  it  is  buried  and  then  step  by  step 
go  through  its  various  attributes;  like  the  stag  at  the  spring  of  running  water,  it 
has  nothing  to  do  but  drink,  and  it  drinks  the  clarity  of  being.'" 

Thanks  to  their  intelligibility,  man  made  things  can  act  as  necessary 
intermediaries  between  us  and  the  natural  world,  bringing  to  it  an 
added  radiance,  such  as  a  Greek  temple  brings  to  the  landscape  in 
which  it  is  set.  It  is  as  though  nature  demanded  the  clear  sharp  facets  of 
our  rational  creations  for  its  own  completion;  Mies  observed  that: 

We  must  strive  to  bring  nature,  buildings  and  men  together  in  a  higher  unity. 
When  you  see  nature  through  the  glass  walls  of  the  Farnsworth  house,  it  takes 
on  a  deeper  significance  than  when  you  stand  outside.  Thus  nature  becomes 
more  expressive  —  it  becomes  part  of  a  greater  whole. 

Much  adverse  criticism  of  MIes's  work  and  philosophy  has  been  based 
on  the  misconception  that  they  were  founded  on  a  Platonist  belief  in  a 
transcendental  world  of  universal  essences, of  which  his  buildings  were 
intended  as  symbols.  Thus  Mumford  complains  In  "The  Case  Against 
Modern  Architecture"that "these hollowglass shells  .  .  .existedalone  in 
the  Platonic  world  of  his  imagination  .  .  ."'^  while  Jencks,  in  Modern 
Movements  In  Architecture,  fails  to  distinguish  between  Plato  and 
Aquinas: 

The  problem  of  Mies  van  der  Rohe  ...  is  that  he  demands  an  absolute  commit- 
ment to  the  Platonic  world-view  In  order  to  appreciate  his  buildings. .  .  .  For 
instance,  nominalist  philosophers  and  pragmatists,  who  believe  that  universals 


do  not  In  fact  exist,  would  find  the  Platonic  statements  of  Mies  mostly  just 
humorous,  because  they  go  to  such  terrific  pains  to  project  a  nonexistent 
reality  Not  only  does  Mies  refer  to  Aqulnas's  formulation  explicitly,  but  he 

also  seems  to  uphold  the  further  scholastic  doctrine  that  all  the  apparent 
phenomena  of  this  world  are  actually  mere  symbols  for  a  greater  reality  lying 
behind  them.'^ 

On  the  contrary,  for  Aquinas,  and  likewise  for  Mies,  things  are  not  mere 
appearances  or  symbols  but  real,  while  universals  exist  only  in  the 
intellect.  Mies's  architecture  does  not  aim  at  universality  in  order  to 
symbolize  a  platonic  world  of  ideal  Forms,  but  simply  in  order  to  be 
intelligible,  its  whole  intent  is  to  state,  as  lucidly  as  it  can,  what  it  is  and 
how  it  is  made.  This  fundamental  matter-of-factness,  this  Sachllchkelt. 
was  underlined  by  Ernesto  Rogers  in  Casabella: 

Obviously,  when  Mies  cites  St.  Augustine's  phrase  "Beauty  is  the  splendor  of 
truth"  he  cannot  take  refuge  in  the  metaphysical  halo  of  the  great  Saint,  because 
Mies's  truth  is  neither  revealed,  nor  aprioristic,  nor  in  the  strict  philosophical 
sense  objective ....  Mies's  religion  is  that  of  a  layman  who  has  an  existential  limit, 
and  it  is  only  In  the  affirmation  of  the  real,  historically  understood,  that  he  can 
satisfy  his  craving  for  truth,  and  thereby  for  beauty.'" 

Moreover,  the  "reductivism  "  of  which  Mies's  critics  accuse  him  is  not  a 
denial  of  the  richness  and  complexity  of  nature,  but  intended  to  accen- 
tuate it: 

Nature  too  must  lead  its  own  life.  We  should  take  care  not  to  disturb  it  with  the 
colorfulness  of  our  houses  and  interiors. '= 

The  Farnsworth  house  has  never  I  believe  been  really  understood.  I  myself  was 
in  that  house  from  morning  to  evening.  Up  to  then  I  had  not  known  how  beautiful 
the  colors  in  nature  can  be.  One  must  deliberately  use  neutral  tones  in  interiors, 
because  one  has  every  color  outside.  These  colors  change  continuously  and 
completely,  and  I  have  to  say  that  simplicity  is  splendid" 

The  striving  for  structural  clarity,  and  for  that  "splendid  simplicity" 
which  found  fulfillment  in  the  Farnsworth  House,  was  confirmed  by 
Mies's  reading  of  Aquinas;  but  it  had  at  first  to  contend  with  other 
influences  that  pulled  in  opposite  directions.  The  image  built  up  in  the 
hagiographies  of  the  1960's,  of  the  granite  monolith  impervious  to  the 
battles  that  were  going  on  around  him,  is  one-sided.  It  must  be  set 
against  the  fact  that  in  his  German  years  he  was  very  much  "in  the  thick 
of  it.""  as  Sandra  Honey  has  said,  and  shared  fully  in  the  intellectual 
conflicts  of  his  time. 


19 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


It  is  impossible  to  determine  how  early  Aquinas  became  important  for 
Mies;  in  Fritz  Neumeyer's  view  it  was  only  in  his  later  years. '^  One  can 
fairly  safely  rule  out  any  likelihood  that  he  was  exposed  to  Scholastic 
teachings  as  a  pupil  at  the  Cathedral  School  at  Aachen,  as  has  often 
been  assumed.  The  anecdote  quoted  earlier,  about  his  discovery  of 
Aquinas's  definition  of  truth,  gives  the  impression  that  it  happened 
while  he  was  in  Behrens's  office!  1908-12),  but  that  is  unclear.  However 
Schuize  cites  the  recollection  of  Mies's  assistant  Friedrich  Hirz,  who 
joined  him  in  1928  when  he  started  worK  on  the  Barcelona  Pavilion, 
that  "he  read  a  lot  of  St.  Thomas  Aquinas"  while  he  was  with  him.'^  One 
can  reasonably  conclude,  I  think,  that  Aquinas  could  have  begun  to 
have  an  influence  on  Mies's  work  during  the  1 920"s. Mies's  first  designs 
of  the  I920's  either  continue  (like  the  Kempner,  Feldmann,  Eichstaedt 
and  Mosler  houses)  the  Neoclassicism  of  his  prewar  work,  or  reflect 
the  influence  of  Expressionism,  and  above  all  that  of  his  close  friend 
Hugo  Haring,  who  shared  Mies's  atelierfrom  1921  to  1924.  This  is  most 
evident  in  the  two  projects  for  glass  office  buildings,  of  1921  and  1922. 
Schuize  notes  that:  "Haring's  own  project  for  the  Friedrichstrasse  com- 
petition, which  was  probably  worked  out  simultaneously  with  Mies's,  is 
notable  for  fat,  rolling  exterior  curves  that  readily  bring  the  undulating 
volumes  of  Mies's  second  project  to  mind."^° 

What  is  strikingly  absent  from  both  projects  is  structural  clarity. 
Schuize  illustrates  a  sketch  plan  of  the  1922  skyscraper,  describing  it  as. 


separates  the  two  projects;  there  could  be  no  better  starting  point  for 
the  story  I  want  to  trace  here:  Mies's  gradual  clarification  of  the  struc- 
ture of  his  buildings  at  the  expense,  if  need  be,  of  all  other  concerns.  He 
acknowledged  the  self-denial  the  intellectual  asceticism,  that  this  in- 
volved: 

I  often  throw  out  things  I  like  very  much  —  they  are  dear  to  my  heart  -  but  when  I 
r\a\je  a  better  Idea  —  a  clearer  Idea,  I  mean  -  then  I  follow  that  clearer  idea.  After 
a  while  I  found  the  Washington  Bridge  most  beautiful,  the  best  building  in  New 
York,  and  maybe  at  the  beginning  I  wouldn't  you  know.  That  grew;  but  first  I  had 
to  conquer  the  idea,  and  later  I  appreciated  it  as  a  beauty.  Thomas  Aquinas  says 
that  "Reason  is  the  first  principle  of  all  human  work."  Now  when  you  have  once 
grasped  that,  then  you  act  accordingly.  So  I  would  throw  out  everything  that  is 
not  reasonable.  I  don't  want  to  be  interesting;  I  want  to  be  good."^" 

Between  1922  and  1962  when  he  began  to  work  on  the  National  Gallery 
in  Berlin,  Mies  progressively  simplified  his  plans  reducing  them  finally 
to  a  single  vast  square  space,  and  articulated  his  structure  so  that  each 
element  was  unmistakably  distinct  from  every  other.  There  is  a  striking, 
and  I  believe  not  merely  coincidental,  parallel  with  the  development  of 
the  classic  Gothic  style  over  a  similar  period  of  time,  about  1 190-1230, 
and  under  the  influence  of  the  same  Scholastic  demand  for  claritas. 
Then,  too,  the  linked  autonomous  spaces  of  Romanesque  were  reduced 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Glass 
Skyscraper  Project,  Friedrichstrasse. 
Berlin.  1922,  Sketch  of  plan.  Courtesy  of 
Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


a  most  unconvincing  effort,  in  which  a  geometric  system  of  piers  is  forced  to 
take  root  in  the  amoeboid  plan.  The  geometry  itself  collapses  into  irregularity 
and  all  trace  of  rational  order  is  lost ....  In  the  Glass  Skyscraper  Mies  was 
preoccupied  less  with  structure  than  with  form.^' 

Writing  about  the  two  glass  towers  in  Fruhlicht,  Mies  threw  in  a  func- 
tional justification  of  the  skyscraper's  apparently  "arbitrary"  curved 
outline  —  "sufficient  illumination  of  the  interior"  —  but  this  is  less 
convincing  than  his  other  two  reasons:  "the  massing  of  the  building 
viewed  from  the  street,  and  . . .  the  play  of  reflections."" 
The  design  is  hard  to  reconcile  with  his  statements  that  it  was  "not  the 
task  of  architecture  to  invent  form,"  and  "Form  is  not  the  aim  of  our 
work,  but  only  the  result."" 

1 922  seems  to  have  been  a  turning  point  in  Mies's  development.  Within 
a  few  months  of  the  glass  skyscraper,  apparently  in  the  winter  of 
1922-23,  he  designed  the  concrete  office  building.  An  ideological  gulf 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Concrete 
Office  Building  Project.  1922.  Courtesy  of 
Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


20 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


^        ^ 


Cathedral.  Speyer.  Floor  Plan  of  c.1 106. 
Courtesy  of  Hans  Erich  Kubach;  Dom  zu 
Speyer.  Darmstadt.  1974.  p.  99. 


Notre  Dame.  Paris.  Floor  Plan  of  1163. 
Courtesy  of  Andrew  Martlndale.  Gothic 
Art.  N.Y..  1967.  p.  23. 


to  the  single  uniform  space  of  High  Gothic;  and  the  structure  was 
articulated  so  that  each  member  was  clearly  identified.  The  classic 
Miesian  corner  detail  Is  comparable  to  the  classic  Gothic  compound 
pier  with  Its  central  shaft  surrounded  by  a  cluster  of  slender  colonnet- 
tes,  each  corresponding  to  a  separate  arch  or  vault  rib.  In  Gothic  Archi- 
tecture and  Schoiasticism  Erwin  Panofsky  writes: 

As  High  Scholasticism  was  governed  by  the  principle  of  manlfestatlo.  so  was 
High  Gothic  architecture  dominated  by  what  may  be  called  the  "principle  of 
transparence.  . ."  Like  the  High  Scholastic  summa.  the  High  Gothic  cathedral 
aimed,  first  of  all.  as  "totality"  and  therefore  tended  to  approximate,  by  synthesis 
as  well  as  elimination,  one  perfect  and  final  solution. .. .  instead  of  the 
Romanesque  variety  of  western  and  eastern  vaulting  forms ...  we  have  the 
newly  developed  rib  vault  exclusively  so  that  the  vaults  of  even  the  apse,  the 
chapels  and  the  ambulatory  no  longer  differ  In  kind  from  those  of  the  nave  and 
transept .... 

And: 

According  to  classic  Gothic  standards  the  Individual  elements . . .  must  proclaim 
their  Identity  by  remaining  clearly  separated  from  each  other  —  shafts  from  the 
wail  or  the  core  of  the  pier,  the  ribs  from  their  neighbors,  all  vertical  members 
from  their  arches;  and  there  must  be  an  unequivocal  correlation  between  them." 

However  neither  Mies  nor  the  Gothic  builders  arrived  at  the  "one  per- 
fect and  final  solution"  by  a  smooth  progression.  The  development  of 
classic  Gothic,  as  Panofsky  shows,  was  consistent,  but  not  direct: 

On  the  contrary,  when  observing  the  evolution  from  the  beginning  to  the  "final 
solutions,"  we  receive  the  impression  that  it  went  on  almost  after  the  fashion  of  a 
"Jumping  procession,"  taking  two  steps  forward  and  then  one  backward,  as 
though  the  builders  were  deliberately  placing  obstacles  in  their  own  way.^* 


Cathedral.  Chartres.  1194.  Wall  and 
Corner  Piers  Plan.  Courtesy  of  John 
James.  Chartres.  London.  1985.  p.  94 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  860-880  LaKe 
Shore  Drive.  Chicago    1951.  Mulllon  and 
Corner  Details.  Courtesy  of  Hedrlch 
Blessing 


Similarly,  one  has  the  feeling  that  Mies  could  have  gone  straight  from 
the  concrete  office  project,  the  most  prophetic  of  his  early  projects,  to 
the  IIT  campus,  leaving  out  all  the  stages  in  between;  for  in  it  appear  all 
the  characteristics  of  his  later  work:  reduction  of  the  concept  to  its 
simplest,  most  essential  statement;  clear,  regular  structure;  and  univer- 
sal, omni-functional  space.  But  things  are  never  that  simple.  Only  by 
being  open  to  contradictory  influences,  and  resolving  the  resulting 
conflicts  by  what  Zevi  calls  "the  flagrant  dissonances  of  Barcelona, 
Berlin  and  Brno""  could  Mies  have  arrived  at  the  truly  complex 
simplicity  of  the  National  Gallery. 

With  the  two  Country  House  Projects  —  in  concrete  (early  1923)  and 
brick  (winter  1923-24)  he  veersoff  in  a  new  direction,  undertheby  now 


21 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


now  strong  influence  of  Theo  van  Doesburg  and  De  StijI  through  his 
close  involvement  with  G.  There  was  much  about  DeSf/y7  to  attract  him: 
here,  finally,  was  a  new  art  movement  inspired  primarily  by  philosophy; 
and  its  foundation  manifesto  had  declared  that  the  "new  consciousness 
of  the  age"  was  "directed  towards  the  universal."^* 
But  the  philosophical  bases  of  De  StijI  were  closer  to  Platonism  (though 
it  derived  from  German  and  Indian  philosophy  rather  than  Greek)  than 
to  Aquinas's  common  sense  acceptance  of  the  real  existence  of  material 
things.  It  aimed  at  the  representation,  beeldlng.  not  of  phenomena,  but 
of  a  noumenal  world  of  pure  thought.-'  In  painting,  this  was  to  be 
achieved  by  eliminating  the  figural  object  and  replacing  it  by  a  unity  of 
rectangular  planes  of  primary  color.^°  In  architecture,  it  would  be 
achieved  by  eliminating  the  figural  delimitation  of  space  —  the  room 
clearly  defined  by  four  walls  or  corner  columns  —  and  replacing  it  with 
a  continuous  space  in  which  walls  and  columns  stood  as  isolated  planes 
and  lines.  Point  5  of  Van  Doesburg's  manifesto  Towards  a  Plastic 
/Arcrt/fecfure  (1924)  declared: 

The  subdivision  of  functional  spaces  is  strictly  determined  by  rectangular 
planes,  which...  can  be  imagined  extended  into  infinity,  thereby  forming  a 
system  of  coordinates  in  which  all  points  correspond  to  an  equal  number  of 
points  in  universal,  unlimited  open  space. 

Pure  thought,  in  which  no  representation  derived  from  phenomena  is  Involved, 
but  which  instead  is  based  on  number,  measure,  proportion  and  abstract  line,  is 
revealed  conceptually  (as  rationality)  in  Chinese.  Greek  and  German  philosophy, 
and  aesthetically  in  the  Neoplasticism  of  our  time.^' 

Neither  the  three  house  projects  that  Van  Doesburg  and  Van  Eesteren 
showed  in  the  exhibition  "Les  Architectes  du  Groupe  de  Styl', '  in  Paris 
in  October  1923.  nor  the  Rietveld-Schroder  House  of  1924.  succeeded 
in  this  aim:  the  Paris  models  consisted  of  intersecting  volumes,  not 
planes,  the  Schroder  House,  externally,  of  a  rectangular  box  with 
Neoplastic  surface  decoration.  Only  Mies's  second  Brick  House  Project 
fulfilled  Van  Doesburg's  aims. 

However,  since  the  walls  were  asymmetrically  disposed  (Point  12  had 
rejected  repetition  and  symmetry  in  favor  of  "the  balanced  repetition  of 
unequal  parts")  it  was  impossible,  so  long  as  they  remained  load- 
bearing,  to  achieve  a  clear  structure.  Inevitably  some  walls  carried 
loads  and  others  not.  while  spans  were  unequal  and  varied  in  direction. 
Miess  three  brick  houses  of  the  late  1920's(Wolf.  Esters  and  Langelare 
all   more  practical  reworkings  of  the  project:  all  have  living  rooms 


ERreEiiHoi! 


-%rnimrt  ,(^ij> 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Brick  Country 
House  Project.  1922.  Perspective 
Drawing.  Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rofie,  Esters  House, 
Krefeld.  1928.  Floor  Plan.  Courtesy  of 
Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Hermann 
Lange  House.  Krefeld.  1928.  Floor  Plan. 
Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


22 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  German 
Pavilion,  Barcelona.  1928.  Perspective 
SKetch.  Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  German 
Pavilion,  Barcelona.  1928.  Floor  Plan, 
Plan  One.  Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  German 
Pavilion.  Barcelona.  1928.  Perspective 
sketch.  Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 


planned  as  series  of  overlapping  rectangles,  producing  staggered  gar- 
den elevations;  and  all  wrestle  unsuccessfully  with  the  problem  of 
structural  clarity.  It  took  Mies  five  years  to  find  a  solution,  though  Van 
Doesburg's  Point  8,  "Walls  are  no  longer  load  bearing;  they  have  been 
reduced  to  points  of  support . .  .  ."^^ 

Mieshasrecalledthat  in  the  early  days  of  the  Barcelona  project,  in  1928, 
that  "One  evening  as  I  was  working  late  on  the  building  I  made  a  sketch 
of  a  freestanding  wall,  and  I  got  a  shock.  I  knew  it  was  a  new  principle."" 
This  was  the  birth  of  the  onyx  wall  that  formed  the  core  of  the  Pavilion. 
Yet  why  did  it  constitute  a  new  principle?  He  had  used  freestanding 
walls,  in  the  sense  of  isolated  planes  in  space,  in  the  country  house 
project;  what  was  new  could  only  be  the  idea  that  the  wall  stood  free  of 
the  structure,  and  loads  were  carried  by  columns.  The  columns  were 
slow  to  appear,  however;  the  earliest  surviving  plans  and  sketches 
show  quite  recognizable  versions  of  the  design,  with  overhanging  roof 
slab,  two  courts  containing  pools,  and  a  plinth  approached  by  steps;  but 
no  columns.  Then,  late  in  1928,  they  finally  appear;  but  at  first  there  are 
three  rows,  and  their  arrangement  looks  Irregular.  A  later  plan  shows 
two  rows,  but  of  three  columns  only,  one  end  of  the  roof  still  being 
supported  by  walls.  Finally,  a  completely  regular  structure  and  freely 
composed  wall  planes  are  superposed  as  independent  but  contrapuntal 
systems.  It  is  as  though  the  concrete  office  building  and  the  brick 
country  house  had  been  overlaid  —  a  synthesis  of  Scholasticist  clarity 
and  Neoplasticist  spatial  continuity. 

Just  as  Mies's  brick  houses  of  the  1920's  reworked  the  project  of 
1923-24,  the  houses  of  the  1930's  were  variations  on  the  Barcelona 
theme.  But  by  1945-46,  when  Mies  began  to  design  the  Farnsworth 
House,  this  synthesis  was  no  longer  good  (that  is,  clear)  enough.  The 
rationality  of  the  Pavilion's  structure  was  apparent  only  in  plan;  in  three 
dimensions,  the  structural  bay  defined  by  four  columns  was  nowhere 
visible.  The  walls  played  an  ambiguous  role,  threatening  to  usurp  that  of 
the  columns.  (Sandra  Honey  has  reported  "thatthey  in  fact  concealed  a 
further  five  supplementary  columns;  it  is  hard  to  see  what  purpose 
these  served,  other  than  lateral  bracing.) 

The  Barcelona  Pavilion,  the  Farnsworth  House  and  the  unbuilt  Bacardi 
Project  (first  formulation,  if  one  excludes  the  Fifty  by  Fifty  House  and 
Convention  Hall  projects,  of  the  "perfect  and  final  solution"  of  the  Berlin 
Gallery)  form  as  it  were  a  set.  Each  consists  of  a  pavilion  raised  above 
ground  level,  approached  off  axis  by  flights  of  steps  and  supported  by 


23 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


< 


eight  columns;  each  marks  a  breakthrough  in  Mies's  search  for  clarity; 
and  each  is  the  model  for  subsequent  designs.  At  Piano,  the  ambiguities 
of  Barcelona  are  overcome  by  bringing  the  columns  to  the  outer  edge  of 
the  roof  and  floor  planes  and  stopping  all  interior  divisions  short  of  the 
ceiling;  for  Bacardi,  the  plan  Is  reduced  to  a  single  great  bay.  with  two 
columns  on  each  side.  Less  is  more.  As  happened  in  the  1920'sand  30"s, 
the  theme,  once  stated,  is  repeated.  The  Farnsworth  House  becomes 
the  model  for  S.  R.  Crown  Hall,  the  Mannheim  Theatre  and  the  Bacardi 
Building  in  Mexico  City;  the  unbuilt  Bacardi  project,  for  the  Schaefer 
Museum  and  the  Berlin  Gallery. 

Thus  M  less  career  proceeded  d  la  lectica  My,  like  the  articles  in  Aquinas's 
Summa.  in  which  he  sets  one  argument  (videturquod)  against  another 
ised  contra)  and  proceeds  to  a  solution  (respondeo  dicendum).  It  was 
not.  as  Zevi  describes,  a  parabola  with  its  summit  around  1930.  so 
much  asaseriesof  fluctuations  with  an  ultimate  goal  —  like  the  twisting 
course  of  a  river  which  at  last  must  flow  into  the  sea.  And  (to  pursue  the 
simile)  just  as  a  river  bears  down  to  the  sea  sediment  from  its  upper 
reaches,  so.  without  the  Brick  Country  House  Project,  the  Barcelona 
Pavilion  and  the  Farnsworth  House.  Mies's  final  statement,  the  Berlin 
Gallery,  would  not  have  been  possible. 

Aquinas's  phrase  may  also  help  to  answer  the  two  most  common 
criticisms  raised  against  Mies's  work;  that  despite  all  the  talk  about 
truth,  his  buildings  are  in  fact  false  in  their  expression  of  structure;  and 
thatthey  make  intolerable  demands  on  those  who  live  in  them.  The  first 
is  based  chiefly  on  his  practice,  at  Lake  Shore  Drive  and  elsewhere,  of 
cladding  the  concrete  casing  of  his  steel  columns  with  steel  plates,  and 
then  applying  to  them  l-section  mull  ions  which  support  no  glazing.  (The 
hidden  columns  at  Barcelona  would  fall  into  the  same  category). 
But  Aquinas  defined  truth  as  a  correspondence  between  different 
ttiings.  or  between  thing  and  intellect  and  not  as  an  identity.  The  steel 
facings  of  Mies's  columns  correspond  to  the  steel  within,  in  the  same 
way  as  the  abstract  concept  of  the  thing  understood  by  the  intellect 
corresponds,  but  is  not  identical,  to  the  material  individuality  of  the 
thing  itself.  Aquinas  himself  answered  the  object  ion  that  "the  intellect  is 
false  if  it  understands  an  object  otherwise  than  as  it  really  is"  by  distin- 
guishing between  false  abstraction,  which  considers  the  form  of  a  thing 
as  being  separate  from  its  matter  —  as  Plato  held  —  and  true  abstrac- 
tion, which  merely  considers  the  form  of  the  thing  separately  from  its 
matter,  -according  to  the  mode  of  the  intellect,  and  not  materially, 


according  to  the  mode  of  a  material  thing. "^^  Similarly,  the  visible  steel 
structure  at  Lake  Shore  Drive  is  necessary  to  make  the  real  steel 
structure  manifest;  it  does  not  try  to  present  that  structure  as  being 
otherwise  than  it  really  is.  Panofsky  sees  the  same  'visual  logic"  in  the 
classic  Gothic  cathedral; 

We  are  faced  neither  with  "rationalism"  in  a  purely  functionalistic  sense  nor  with 
"Illusion"  In  the  modern  sense  of  I'art  pour  I'art  aesthetics.  We  are  faced  with 
what  may  be  termed  a  "visual  logic"  illustrative  of  Thomas  Aquinas's  nam  et 
sensus  ratio  quaedam  est.  A  man  imbued  with  the  Scholastic  habit  would  look 
upon  the  mode  of  architectural  presentation  . . .  from  the  point  of  view  of  man- 
ifestatlo.  He  would  have  taken  it  for  granted  that  the  primary  purpose  of  the 
many  elements  that  compose  a  cathedral  was  to  ensure  stabil  ity,  just  as  he  took  it 
for  granted  that  the  primary  purpose  of  the  many  elements  that  constitute  a 
Summa  was  to  ensure  validity.  But  he  would  not  have  been  satisfied  had  not  the 
membrif ication  of  the  edifice  permitted  him  to  re-experience  the  very  processes 
of  architectural  composition  Just  as  the  membriflcation  of  the  Summa  permitted 
him  to  re-experience  the  very  processes  of  cogitation.'* 

The  second  criticism,  which  is  more  fundamental  and  is  the  reason  for 
my  title,  has  been  leveled  against  Mies  since  early  in  his  career.  In  1931 
Die  Form  the  organ  of  the  Deutscher  Werkbund  whose  vice-president 
Mies  became  in  1926,  published  an  article  under  the  title  'Can  one  live  in 
the  Tugendhat  house?"  The  author,  Justus  Bier,  claimed  that  "personal 
life  was  repressed"  by  the  "precious"  spaces  and  furnishing  of  the 
house,  making  it  a  "showroom"  rather  than  a  home."  In  the  mid-1960's 
Mumford  said  much  the  same; 

these  hollow  glass  shells  . . .  had  no  relation  to  site,  climate.  Insulation,  function, 
or  internal  activity,  [and]  the  rigidly  arranged  chairs  In  his  living  rooms  openly 
disregarded  the  necessary  intimacies  and  informalities  of  conversation;" 

and  Venturi,  that  "Mies's  exquisite  pavilions  .  .  .  ignore  the  real  com- 
plexity and  contradiction  inherent  in  the  domestic  program."^' 
Even  Mies's  biographer,  Franz  Schuize,  recognizes  that  the  Farnsworth 
House, 

is  more  nearly  a  temple  than  a  dwelling,  and  it  rewards  aesthetic  contemplation 
before  it  fulfills  domestic  necessity ....  In  cold  weather  the  great  glass  panes 
tended  to  accumulate  an  overabundance  of  condensation  ...  In  summer . . .  the 
sun  turned  the  interior  into  a  cooker. . .  Palumbo  is  the  ideal  owner  of  the 
house  ...  he  derives  sufficient  spiritual  sustenance  from  the  reductivlst  beauty  of 
the  place  to  endure  its  creature  discomforts."" 

Of  course  that  is  just  the  point;  Mies's  buildings,  before  they  are  func- 
tional shelters  or  even  objects  of  "aesthetic  contemplation,"  are  source? 


I 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Bacardi  Office 
Building  Project,  Santiago  de  Cuba.  1957. 
Perspective  of  Structure.  Courtesy  of  Fritz 
Neumeyer. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  New  National 
Gallery.  Berlin.  1967.  Courtesy  of  Werner 
Blaser. 


24 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


O  _  J_  X_.  0 


^      r 


Le  Corbusler,  Pavilion  de  I'Esprit 
Nouveau.  1925.  From  Oeuvre  Complete 
de  1910-1929.  Zurich.  1964.  p.  107. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Tugendhat 
House.  Brno.  1930.  Courtesy  of  George 
Danforth. 


Of  "spiritual  sustenance"  -  tinat  is,  of  food  for  the  mind.  It  is  Instructive 
to  compare  Mies's  attitude  In  this  respect  with  that  of  Le  Corbusier,  who 
seems  to  have  agreed,  In  theory  if  not  In  practice,  with  Loos's  dictum 
that: 

Only  a  very  small  part  of  architecture  belongs  to  art:  the  tomb  and  the  monu- 
ment. Everything  else,  everything  which  serves  a  purpose,  should  be  excluded 
from  the  realms  of  art."' 

James  Dunnett  has  recently  argued  that: 

The  Radiant  City . . .  was  to  be  a  setting  for  a  particular  ideal  of  intellectual  life,  the 
model  of  which  was,  above  all,  that  of  Cubism  —  which  for  Le  Corbusier  was 
essentially  a  meditative  art ....  In  describing  the  house  as  a  "machine  for  living 
In"  Le  Corbusier  was  classifying  it  according  to  a  principle  of  differentiation 
which  was  central  to  his  thought  and  to  his  sense  of  form  ....  The  division 
opposedtheessentlally"servant "functionsof  lifeandthe "free'functions  ....  [It] 
was  extended  to  the  field  of  artefacts  by  recognizing  two  distinct  categories:  the 
"free"  artefact,  i.e.  the  work  of  art,  and  the  "servant"  artefact,  i.e.  the  Implement 
or  tool  (ouf/7).  Though  the  former  needed  no  ulterior  justification,  the  latter  was 
justified  only  by  its  service  to  the  processes  of  life,  and  hence  to  the  enjoyment, 
ultimately,  of  the  former  ....  The  role  of  a  "machine  for  living  in"  is  outlllage  — 
that  of  servant."^ 

In  classifying  the  house  as  a  machine  or  tool  Le  Corbusier  was  regard- 
ing it  not  as  a  work  of  art  —  a  proper  object  of  meditation  In  itself  —  but 
rather  as  the  self-effacing  container  of  that  proper  object,  namely  the 
Cubist  painting.  Its  role  was  to  be  "a  vessel  of  silence  and  lofty  solitude" 
in  which  the  work  of  art  could  be  meditated  upon."^ 
Of  course  iVlies's  houses,  too,  could  enhance  the  experience  of  a  work  of 
art,  despite  Justus  Bier's  objection  that  one  could  not  hang  pictures  in 
the  main  space  of  the  Tugendhat  House.  But  their  intention  went  be- 
yond that:  to  the  enhancement  of  the  experience  of  life  itself.  Replying  in 
Die  Form  to  Bier's  criticisms,  Crete  Tugendhat  observed: 

I  have  .  .  .  never  felt  the  spaces  to  be  precious,  but  rather  as  austere  and  grand  — 
not  in  a  way  that  oppresses,  however,  so  much  as  one  that  liberates  . . .  .Just  as  in 
this  space  one  sees  each  flower  as  never  before,  and  every  work  of  art  (for 
instance  the  sculpture  that  stands  before  the  onyx  wall)  speaks  more  strongly,  so 
too  the  human  occupant  stands  out,  for  himself  and  others,  more  distinctly  from 
his  environment." 

For  Mies,  as  for  Le  Corbusier,  the  house  was  a  machine  a  medlter.  But 
where  for  Le  Corbusier  It  was  merely  a  machine  to  meditate  In.  for  Mies 
It  was  a  machine  to  meditate  with.  An  educator  could  have  no  higher 
aim. 


25 


MACHINES      A      MEDITER 


NOTES 

1  Werner  Blaser.  Mies  van  aer  Rohe.  Furniture  ana  Interiors.  1980,  p.  10. 

2  Peter  Carter,  Architectural  Design.  March  1961.  p.  97. 

3  Franz  Schuize,  Mies  van  aer  Rohe:  A  Critical  Biography.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago 
Press,  1985,  p    173. 

4  Schuize.  p.  313 

5  St.  Thomas  Aquinas,  Ouaestlones  aisputatae  ae  verltate.  1256-59.  part  I  qu.  86.  art.  2, 
translation  author. 

6  St.  Thomas  Aquinas.  Summa  Theologica.  1267.  part  Iqu,  86,  art.  1,  1  267.  translation  1st 
2  lines.  Anthony  Kenny.  Aquinas.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press.  1 980;  2nd  two  lines, 
Fathers  of  the  Dominican  Province,  translators,  Aquinas,  Summa.  London  &  Chicago: 
Burns  Oates  &  Washbourne.  1922. 

7  Aquinas,  De  verltate.  qu.  I  art.  3. 

8  Aquinas,  De  verltate.  qu.  I  art.  2. 

9  Aquinas.  De  verltate.  qu.  XX  art.  4, 

10  Jacques  Maritain. /4rf  and  Scfto/asf/c/sm,  1923. 

11  Christian  Norberg-Schuiz,  "Bin  Gesprach  mit  Mies  van  der  Rohe,"  Baukunst  una 
Werkform,  Nov,  1958. 

12  Lewis  Mumford.'TheCase  Against  Modern  Architecture," /Arch/fecfura/Recoro',  1962. 

13  Charles  Jencks,  tvioaern  Movements  In  Architecture,  1973,  pp.  95-108. 

14  E.  Rogers.  "Problematica  di  Mies  van  der  Rohe,"  Casat3ella,  214,  Feb. -Mar.  1957,  p.  6. 

15  Norberg-Schuiz 

16  Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  "Ich  mache  niemals  ein  Slid,  '  Bauwelt.  Aug,  1962. 

17  Sandra  Honey,  "The  Office  of  Mies  van  der  Rohe  in  America,"  UIA  International  Ar- 
chitect, issue  3,  1984,  p.  44. 

18  Conversation  with  Neumeyer. 

19  Schuize.  p.  338.  note  43. 

20  Schuize,  p.  103. 

21  Schuize.  p.  101. 

22  Mies.  "Two  Glass  Skyscrapers."  Fruhlicht.  Summer  1922. 

23  Mies,  G,  number  2.  1923. 

24  Mies.  "Conversations  about  the  Future  of  Architecture,"  Reynolds  Metals  Company 
sound  recording,  1958. 

25  Erwin  Panofsky.  Gothic  Architecture  ana  Scholasticism.  Latrobe.  Pennsylvania:  The 
Archabbey  Press.  1951.  pp. 43-50. 

26  Panofsky,  p.  60. 

27  Bruno  Zevi.  Poetica  aell architettura  neoplastica.  2nd  edition,  1974,  p.  187. 

28  1st  manifesto  of  De  StijI.  De  StijI.  II.  1,  1918,  p.  2. 

29  Theo  van  Doesburg,  "Denken-aanschouwen-beelden,"  De  StijI.  II.  2,  1918,  p.  23. 

30  Piet  Mondrian,  "De  nieuwe  beelding  in  de  schilderkunst  3."  De  StijI.  I.  4.  1918,  p.  29. 

31  Theo  van  Doesburg,  "Tot  een  beeldendearchitectuur, "DeSf/y/,  VI.  6/7,  1924,  pp,  78-83. 

32  van  Doesburg.  "Tot  een  beeldende  architectuur." 

33  Mies.  Six  Stuaents  Talk  with  Mies.  North  Carolina  State  College.  Spring  1952, 

34  Sandra  Honey,  "Who  and  What  Inspired  Mies  van  der  Rohe  in  Germany,"  Architectural 
Design.  3/4,  1979,  pi 02. 

35  Aquinas.  Summa  Theologica.  part  I,  qu.  85.  art.  1. 

36  Panofsky,  pp.  58-59, 

37  Justus  Bier,  "Kann  man  im  Haus  Tugendhat  wohnen?"  Die  Form.  Oct.  1931,  pp.  392- 
393. 

38  Mumford.  "The  Case  Against  Modern  Architecture." 

39  Robert  Venturi.  Complexity  ana  Contraaiction  In  Architecture.  1966.  pp.  24-25. 

40  Schuize.  p.  256- 

41  Adolf  Loos. /^rcft/fecfure,  1910. 

42  James  Dunnett,  "The  Architecture  of  Silence,"  The  Architectural  Review.  Oct  1985,  pp. 
69-75. 

43  Le  Corbusier,  La  vllle  raaieuse.  1935. 

44  Crete  Tugendhat.  "Die  Bewohnerdes  HausesTugendhatsaussern  sich,"  D/e  Form,  Nov. 
1931.  pp.  437-38. 


26 


MIES     AS     S  E  L  F  -  E  D  U  C  A  T  O  R 
Fritz  Neumeyer 


"Formula  of  my  Happiness:  a  Yes,  a  No,  a  straight  line,  a  goal." 

—  Friedrich  Nietzsche 

"My  father  was  a  stone  mason,  so  it  was  natural  that  I  would  either 
continue  his  work  or  turn  to  building.  I  had  no  conventional  architec- 
tural education.  I  worked  under  a  few  good  architects;  I  read  a  few  good 
books  —  and  that's  about  it."' 

With  this,  the  essence  of  a  "biography,"  Mies  van  der  Rohe  marked 
those  specific  moments  which  defined  his  professional  path  from  mate- 
rial to  function  to  idea.  What  Mies  may  have  learned  from  those  specific 
forms  of  construction  known  since  childhood  can  be  gleaned  from 
Adolph  Loos.  Also  a  stone  mason's  son  Loos  wrote  in  his  famous  essay 
"Architektur"  of  1909,  "only  a  very  small  portion  of  architecture  is  art: 
the  tombstone  and  the  monument.  Everything  else  which  serves  a 
function  is  to  be  excluded  from  the  realm  of  art.  Only  when  the  colossal 
misunderstanding  that  art  is  something  adapted  to  a  function  is  over- 
come will  we  have  the  architecture  of  our  time."^ 
Mies  came  in  contact  early  with  this  small  yet  extremely  important 
aspect  of  architecture,  belonging  as  it  does  to  the  resources  of  a  stone 
mason.  Tombstones  and  monuments  embodied  an  absolute  ideal  as 
well  as  a  formal  step  beyond  architecture.  This  served  not  only  to 
acquaint  him  with  the  practical  side  of  construction  but  also  to  sensitize 
him  to  the  quality  of  material  and  uniform  character  of  what  was  built. 
The  metaphysical  was  its  essence  of  reality,  symbolic  nature  its  actual 
being,  for  its  function  was  to  transcend  visible  physical  reality  by  refer- 
ring to  the  numinous  world  of  the  invisible. 


During  these  student  years  in  Aachen  another  encounter  occurred, 
which  Mies  claimed  to  be  of  lasting  significance.  Cleaning  out  the 
drawer  of  a  drafting  table  in  the  office  of  Aachen  architect  Albert 
Schneider,  where  Mies  worked  briefly,  he  found  an  \ssueoi  Die  Zukunft 
(The  Future),  published  by  Maximilian  Harden.  Reading  it  with  great 
interest,  Mies  later  admitted^  that  the  content  of  this  journal  far  surpas- 
sed his  understanding,  yet  awakened  his  curiosity  and  concern.  From 
then  on  Mies  considered  questions  of  philosophy  and  culture:  he  read 
intensively  and  began  to  think  for  himself.'' 

This  chance  encounter  with  the  Berlin  weekly  Die  Zul<unft.  which  he 
now  read  regularly,  brought  Mies  intocontact  with  a  hitherto  unfamiliar 
world.  A  megaphoneof  anti-Wilhelminian  rebellion,  known  as  the  most 
read,  most  admired  and  most  hated  political  weekly  in  Germany,  pres- 
ented to  its  turn  of  the  century  readers  such  well  known  writers  as  the 
art  critics  Karl  Scheffler,  Julius  Meier-Graefe  and  Alfred  Lichtwark,  the 
Danish  literature  scholar  George  Brandes  and  the  Berlin  historian  Kurt 
Breysig.  Author-artists  such  as  Henry  van  de  Velde  and  August  Endell, 
writersof  fiction  such  as  Richard  Dehmel,  Stefan  Zweig.Heinrich  Mann 
or  August  Strindberg,  the  economic  historian  Werner  Sombart  and  the 
philosophers  Alois  Riehl  and  Georg  Simmel  rounded  out  the  list  of 
contributors. 

Acquaintance  with  this  journal  had  weighty  potential  significance. 
Issue  no.  52,  September  27,  1902,  seems  almost  a  prophecy  of  Mies's 
future  as  it  contained  an  essay  by  Alois  Riehl  "From  Heraclitus  to 
Spinoza,"  and  a  report  by  Meier-Graef  on  the  Art  Exposition  of  Turin 
where  the  vestibule  designed  by  Peter  Behrens  caused  a  sensation. 


27 


MIES      AS      S  E  L  F  -  E  D  U  C  A  T  O  R 


Mies  would  not  meet  Alois  Riehl  and  Peter  Behrens  until  five  years  later 
in  Berlin,  where  they  profoundly  influenced  his  intellectual  and  artistic 
development.  The  religiously  Piased  education  Mies  received  at  The 
Cathedral  School  in  Aachen  planted  a  special  disposition  for  the  abso- 
lute and  metaphysical  and  a  tendency  towards  a  comparable  world 
view.  This  tendency  took  firm  root  following  his  chance  encounter  with 
philosophy  in  Die  Zukunft.  In  1927  Mies  wrote  in  his  notebook,  "Only 
through  philosophical  understanding  is  the  correct  order  of  our  duties 
revealed  and  thereby  the  value  and  dignity  of  our  existence."^ 
For  Mies  the  key  to  reality  lay  hidden  in  philosophical  understanding. 
Philosophy,  alone  among  the  paths  to  enlightenment,  had  the  advan- 
tage of  depth  and  simplicity,  because  its  method  separated  the  primary 
from  the  secondary,  the  eternal  from  the  temporal.  Mies  sought  in  his 
study  of  philosophy  an  intellectual  equivalent  to  his  lack  of  academic 
training  as  an  architect.  "Reduction"  to  the  essence  offered  "the  only 
way,"  to  genuine  understanding  and  the  possibility  "to  create  important 
architecture."^ 

This  Intellectual  premise  had  a  personal  counterpart,  for  Mies's  first 
step  into  architectural  independence  grew  from  his  interest  in  philos- 
ophy. He  built  his  first  house  in  1907,  his  twenty-first  year,  for  a 
philosopher.  At  the  time,  Mies  worked  for  Bruno  Paul.  In  addition  to  his 
work,  Mies  attended  the  courses  Bruno  Paul  taught  at  the  Berlin 
Museum  for  Applied  Arts.  Here  Mies  had  his  first  important  artistic 
experiences  and  learned  from  the  elegance  of  Paul's  design. 
Building  the  house  for  Alois  Riehl,  Professor  of  Philosophy  at  The 
Friedrich  Wilhelm  University  In  Berlin,  introduced  Mies  in  1907  into  the 
world  he  had  first  encountered  in  reading  D/eZu/^unft.  Hisflrst  patron,  a 
close  friend  until  his  death  in  1924  and  for  whom  Mies  designed  his 
tombstone,  provided  a  decisive  entrance  into  that  strata  of  society, 
primarily  intellectuals,  artists,  businessmen,  industrialists  and  finan- 
ciers, from  which  Mies  later  received  commissions.  In  this  cosmopoli- 
tan world  of  Berlin,  Mies  met  at  the  Riehl  house  Walther  Rathenau,  the 
classical  philologist  Werner  Jaeger,  the  art  historian  Heinrich  Wolfflin 
(then  engaged  to  Ada  Bruhn,  she  married  Mies  in  191 3),  the  philosopher 
Eduard  Spranger  and  probably  also  the  philosopher  of  religion, 
Romano  Guardini,  who  influenced  Mies's  thinking  of  the  late  twenties. 
The  Riehl  House  shows  the  first  influences  of  classicism  Mies  absorbed 
from  the  Berlin  building  tradition.  Thoroughly  modern  in  its  contempo- 
rary interpretation  of  sober  Biedermeier  publicized  in  1907  by  Paul 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe  seated  in  front 
of  the  Riehl  House.  1912,  Courtesy  of 
Franz  Schulze. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Riehl  House. 
Neubabelsberg.  1907,  Garden  view. 
Courtesy  of  Moderns  Bauformen.  1910. 


Mebes  in  his  influential  Bauen  um  1800  (Building  Around  1800),  even 
more  important  than  stylistic  surface  considerations,  Mies  mastered 
thegrammar  of  the  composition.  By  overlapping  volumes  of  geometric 
form,  also  expressed  in  the  tense  plan,  Mies's  signature  becomes  clear. 


Bruno  Paul,  Clubhouse  of  the  Berlin  Lawn 
and  Tennis  Club,  c,1908.  Courtesy  of  Fritz 
Neumeyer, 


28 


MIES      AS      S  E  L  F  -  E  D  U  C  AT O  R 


Peter  Behrens,  Crematorium  in  Hagen. 
1906-07.  Courtesy  of  Fritz  Hoeber,  Peter 
Behrens.  Munich,  1913.  p. 64. 


Behind  the  Bieder  or  honest  appearance  of  the  entry  shel  I  Mies  selected 
for  this  house,  he  treated  the  garden  facade  as  a  pavilion  set  asymmetri- 
cally on  a  monumental  base  —  a  theme  he  followed  to  the  end  of  his  life. 
If,  in  the  mind's  eye,  one  removed  from  this  house  everything  but  the 
pilasters  of  the  walls  and  the  loggia,  the  structure  seems  to  suggest  the 
Farnsworth  House  or  the  National  Gallery,  Berlin.  The  pavilion  is  prob- 
ably the  first  architectural  exercise  Mies  addressed  in  Berlin.  Not  only 


Peter  Behrens.  Atelier  In  Potsdam, 
Neubabelsberg.  Mies  is  third  from  right. 
Courtesy  of  A. E.G.  Archive. 

Peter  Behrens,  A, E.G.  Turbine  Hall, 
Berlin-Moabit.  1909.  Courtesy  of  A. E.G. 
Archive. 


Schlnkel's  buildings  in  nearby  Potsdam,  but  also  Pauls  Club  House  of 
the  Berlin  Lawn  and  Tennis  Club  in  Zehlendorf,  show  concepts  on 
which  the  Riehl  House  draws.  Paul  entrusted  Mies  with  the  planning  of 
the  Zehlendorf  building,  and  it  thus  numbers  among  his  first  works. 
While  working  for  Bruno  Paul,  Mies  became  familiar  with  the  works  of 
Peter  Behrens  especially  his  1906  crematorium  in  Hagen,  which  also 
may  have  influenced  the  plan  of  the  Riehl  House.  Paul  Thiersch,  Mies's 
supervisor  in  Paul'soffice,  worked  on  the  crematorium  in  1906  while  in 
Behrens's  office  in  Diisseldorf.  Recognizing  his  talent  Thiersch  told 
Mies  that  "you  belong  with  Behrens.'"' 

The  Berlin  office  of  Peter  Behrens,  who  in  1907  became  artistic  adviser 
to  the  international  electrical  conglomerate  A. E.G.,  offered  a  spectrum 
of  work  unmatched  by  any  other  architectural  office  in  Europe  of  the 
time.  His  concept  of  a  synthesis  of  art  and  life  in  a  grand  uniform  style 
expressed  itself  In  a  distinct  Industrial  classicism  where  opposing 
worlds  of  Industrial  technology  and  ceremonial  art  were  reconciled. 
The  renowned  Turbine  Hall  of  1909  symbolized  a  new  aesthetic  power, 
which  promised  to  overcome  the  stylistic  pluralism  of  the  19th  century. 
Behrens's  "Zarathustra  Style,"  as  a  contemporary  art  critic  termed  It, 
announced  the  "Kunstwollen"  (will  to  art)  which  Rlegl's  art  theory  had 
first  proclaimed.  In  It  one  heard  the  echo  of  the  "will  to  a  great  style"  as 
postulated  by  the  philosopher  Friedrlch  Nietzsche  In  his  thesis  on  the 
dominance  of  art  over  life.  Only  In  art  could  man  regain  his  lost  whole- 
ness. An  attempt  to  organize  a  new  way  of  life  was  based  on  this 
concept  of  the  primacy  of  the  aesthetic.  From  the  design  of  the  com- 
pany letterhead,  to  its  product  line,  to  Its  factory  buildings  and  housing 
estates  Peter  Behrens  exercised  his  aesthetic  will.  He  embodied  the 
new  artist  who  created  the  modern.  Industrial  Gesamtkunstwerk  (total 
work  of  art),  expressed  In  Nietzsche's  vision  of  culture  as  a  "unity  of 
artistic  style  In  all  manifestations  of  life. " 

Peter  Behrens's  success  In  uniting  art  and  philosophy  In  a  stylistic 
synthesis  balanced  the  Influence  of  Riehl.  There  was  a  certain  "logical" 
connection  between  the  Riehl  House  and  Peter  Behrens,  for  Mies's  first 
patron  played  a  significant  role  In  those  art  circles  which  popularized 
Nietzsche  as  the  philosopher  of  culture  after  1900.  In  1897,  with  Fr/ed- 
rlch  Nietzsche  als  Kunstler  und  Denker  (Friedrlch  Nietzsche  as  Artist 
and  Thinker)  Riehl  was  first  to  publish  a  book  on  Nietzsche  In  Germany, 
thereby  Initiating  the  Nietzsche  cult  and  furthering  his  image  at  the  turn 
of  the  century.  In  Einfuhrung  in  die  Philosophie  der  Gegenwart  {\ntro- 


29 


MIES      AS      S E L F - E D U C AT O R 


duction  to  Contemporary  Philosophy)  of  1903  (Mies  owned  a  1908 
edition)  Alois  Riehl  again  outlined  Nietzsche's  philosophical  aesthetic, 
honoring  him  as  the  philosopher  whose  world  view  was  the  "mirror  of 
the  modern  soul." 

Through  RIehl  and  Behrens  Mies  intimately  confronted  the  intellectual 
problems  of  the  times,  keenly  aware  of  the  existential  dilemma  of 
modern  man.  freed  from  the  old  bonds  of  belief  only  to  find  his  inner  self 
in  a  new  mental  order.  By  his  own  assessment  Mies  began  his  "con- 
scious professional  career"  around  1910.  This  consciousness  awak- 
ened at  a  time  of  transition  marked  by  many  divergent  theories  and 
beginnings  which  appeared  "confused"  to  Mies.  His  encounter  with  the 
work  of  Frank  Lloyd  Wright  (first  introduced  to  Berlin  in  1910),  and 
even  more  important  the  thoughts  of  the  Dutch  architect  Hendrikus 
Petrus  Berlage  (whom  Mies  met  in  1912  while  engaged  on  the  house 
project  for  the  art  collector  Helene  Kroner  of  The  Hague),  showed  him 
the  full  spectrum  of  modern  concepts:  form,  space  and  construction. 
Behrens,  Wright  and  Berlage  Interpreted  these  three  elements  of 
architecture  very  differently.  Beriage's  concept  of  the  objective  idea, 
where  simple  and  honest  construction  served  as  the  fundamental  basis 
of  all  building,  offered  Mies,  still  in  search  of  absolute  values,  the  found- 
ation for  his  "Elementarismus,"  which  after  1919  Mies  placed  under  the 
primacy  of  construction.  With  the  collapse  of  the  old  order  in  the  First 
World  War,  the  renewal  of  Baukunst  ^  began  at  a  point  in  opposition  to 
all  accepted  concepts  and  ideologies.  Because  they  alone  were  objec- 
tive, material  and  construction  must  serve  as  the  foundation  on  which  a 
new  architecture  would  rise.  Mies's  Fundamentalism  effectively  dis- 
tanced itself  from  all  other  theories  and  formal  concepts.  The  house 
cleaning  of  Baukunst  began  by  rejecting  all  aesthetic  and  symbolic 
aspects:  encompassing  a  total  resistance  to  art.  As  Mies  proclaimed 
with  appropriate  pathos  in  his  first  manifesto,  dated  1923,  "we  reject  all 
aesthetic  speculation,  all  doctrine,  all  formalism."' 
Mies  drew  a  line  between  himself  and  all  prior  art.  Whether  classicism, 
expressionism,  constructivism  or  neoplasticism,  Mies  uncompromis- 
ingly branded  any  idea  which  alluded  to  "form"  or  approached  "style" 
as  "formalistic."  Form  no  longer  had  a  right  to  exist.  Now  quite  superf- 
luous, form  was  placed  ad  acta  and  unequivocally  stricken  from  the 
catalog  of  architectural  categories.  As  Mies  said,  "We  know  no  form, 
only  building  problems.  Form  is  not  the  aim  but  the  result  of  our  work. 
Form  as  such  does  not  exist."'" 


With  these  words  Mies  subordinated  artistic  freedom  to  the  ascetic 
virtues  of  impartiality  and  objectivity. 

Like  a  litmus  paper  of  conscience,  at  every  opportunity  Mies  held  up  his 
categorical  imperative  of  form.  What  Mies  hoped  for  he  only  alluded  to 
in  his  closing  words:  "It  is  our  task  to  free  the  act  of  building  from 
aesthetic  speculators  and  to  restore  building  to  that  which  it  should  be 
alone,  namely  building." 

Or,  as  he  added  in  an  informative  postscript  to  his  manuscript  of  the  text, 
"To  return  building  to  that  which  it  has  always  been."" 
The  future  and  the  eternal,  as  these  interchangeable  lines  imply,  would 
rise  together  In  the  view  Mies  championed.  A  timeless,  absolute  law  of 
creation  would  totally  subjugate  the  new  builder.  It  reads  "Baukunst  is 
the  will  of  an  epoch  translated  into  space;  living,  changing,  new.  Not 
yesterday,  not  tomorrow,  only  today  can  be  given  form.  Only  this  kind  of 
building  is  creative.  Create  form  out  of  the  nature  of  the  tasks  with  the 
methods  of  our  times.  This  is  our  task."'^ 

Mies  hoped  to  conquer  reality  and  honesty  with  his  unconditional  sur- 
render to  the  myth  of  building  and  the  will  of  the  epoch.  Here  lay  the 
path  out  of  the  conflict  bogged  down  with  prewar  notions.  With  a  set  of 
projects  originating  between  1921  and  1924  Mies  sliced  through,  in  a 
single  stroke,  the  knot  of  the  dilemma  that  held  Baukunst.  The  daring 
plans  for  glass  skyscrapers,  an  office  building  and  country  houses  of 
brick  and  concrete  proudly  departed  from  the  time  honored  image  of 
architecture,  completing  a  radical  break  with  historical  form.  Mies's 
creations  stand  alone  in  time,  the  consequence  of  his  careful  thought, 
fundamental  conception  and  formal  completion.  Exemplary  in  their 
definition  and  fantastic  in  poetic  precision,  at  once  realistic  and  Utopian, 
fully  mature  and  complete  they  stand  at  the  beginning  of  a  new  de- 
velopment. 

These  prototypes  of  modern  architecture  catapulted  Mies  into  the  first 
rank  of  the  avant  garde.  Later  as  editor  of  G  [tor  Elementare  Gestaltung , 
the  magazine  published  by  Hans  Richter  and  El  Lissitzky),  and  as  a 
leading  member  of  the  Novembergruppe  Mies  became  one  of  the  most 
Important  protagonists  of  the  avant  garde.  His  membership  in  the 
Deutscher  Werkbund  (vice  president  from  1926  to  1932),  the  Bund 
Deutscher  Architekten  (Union  of  German  Architects),  and  theZertner- 
ring  (founded  1925)  indicates  his  concern  extended  beyond  simply  a 
new  "art." 
Mies  chose  to  walk  toward  the  new  architecture  on  the  path  of  self 


30 


MIES      AS      S  E  L  F  -  E  D  U  C  A  T  O  R 


education  In  objective  order.  Construction  and  material  teach  the  mod- 
ern Baukunstler  (building  artist)  whose  task  it  is  to  reveal  their  beauty. 
Mies  saw  the  secret  of  creating  form  hidden  in  the  essence  of  the  task, 
not  in  some  historical  analysis  or  imitation.  The  discipline  of  the  new 
master  builder  began  with  orderly  subordination  to  the  new  order  of 
being  represented  by  material  and  function.  He  focussed  his  vision  on 
the  future  without  sentimentality,  seeing  himself  as  the  agent  of  the  will 
of  the  epoch. 

In  the  name  of  construction,  material  and  the  will  of  the  epoch  this 
program  for  a  new  beginning  blended  the  Hegelian  model  of  an  objec- 
tive Idea  with  Schopenhauer's  metaphysical  will.  From  Nietzsche  it 
inherited  its  hatred  of  academic  education  and  of  man  caught  In  the  web 
of  historicism.  Nietzsche's  motto:  "But  the  first  must  educate  them- 
selves," expressed  Mies's  thoughts  in  1925  when  he  first  announced  his 
Ideas  on  architectural  education.  In  responding  to  the  Bund  Deutscher 
Architekten  topic  Erziehung  des  baukunstlerischen  Nachwuchses 
(Education  of  the  new  generation  of  builders),  Mies  more  or  less  out- 
lined his  own  development  when  he  wrote:  "Everyone  who  has  the 
necessary  fiber  should  be  allowed  to  build,  regardless  of  origin  or 
education.  The  question  of  educating  the  new  generation  of  builders  is 
f  undamenta  I  ly  a  question  of  the  essence  of  BauKunst.  Were  this  concern 
clearly  answerable  there  would  be  no  problems  in  education.  Where 
the  goal  is  fixed,  the  way  is  given.  But  we  stand  amid  a  transition  of  the 
hitherto  fixed  views.  Tomorrow  Baukunst  will  be  thought  of  differently 
than  today.  Therefore,  the  young  Baukunstler  should  not  be  fettered, 
but  freed  of  conventions  and  educated  in  freedom  of  thinking  and 
judgment.  Everything  else  can  be  left  to  the  intellectual  boutsof  ourday. 
How  and  where  that  is  taught  is  of  no  concern."'^ 
Mies  organized  his  architectural  thoughts  around  the  question  of  es- 
sence—the fundamental  question  to  philosophy.  The  development  of 
Mies's  concepts  is  clearly  legible  every  time  he  addressed  the  question. 
In  his  manifestoes  on  "Baukunst  and  the  Will  of  the  Epoch"  in  the  early 
twenties  or  "Industrial  Building"  in  1924,  Mies  advocated  an  anonym- 
ous, artless  building  based  on  objectivity.  Its  essence  manifested  itself 
directly  through  materials  and  practical  conditions,  not  through  the 
invention  of  form  based  on  subject.  "Important  and  characteristic 
forms  "  emerge,  Mies  explained  in  1924  (in  a  lecture  using  the  example 
of  Bruno  Taut's  plan  for  enlarging  the  city  of  Magdeburg),  paradoxi- 
cally, "just  because  no  form  was  aspired  to."^*' 


The  unexample  became  the  example,  and  the  new  Baukunst  stepped 
into  an  existence  aptly  noted  by  J.  J.  P.  Oud  when  he  wrote,  "We  do  our 
work  conscientiously,  follow  it  through  to  the  smallest  detail,  subordi- 
nate ourselves  totally  to  the  task,  don't  think  of  art,  and,  see  there  -  one 
day  the  work  is  completed  and  shows  itself  to  be  — art. "'^ 
The  ideas  which  dominated  Mies's  thoughts  on  building  in  1924  ap- 
peared in  a  totally  different  light  in  1927.  In  1924,  in  "Baukunst  andihe 
Will  of  the  Epoch,"  Mies  defined  the  house  as  an  effort  to  "organize 
living  .  .  .  simply  from  its  function."  Three  years  later  he  adds  critical 
questions  to  his  earlier  assertions.  In  his  notebook  of  1 927/28  he  states: 
"The  house  is  a  commodity.  May  one  ask  for  what?  May  one  ask  what 
the  reference  is?  Evidently  only  for  bodily  existence.  So,  that  all  goes 
smoothly.  And  yet  man  has  needs  of  the  soul  which  cannot  be  satisfied 
with  this ....  "'^ 

Early  in  the  twenties  Mies  subordinated  himself  to  the  "hierarchy  of 
things,"  yet  by  the  end  of  the  decade  he  added  a  concern  for  the 
"hierarchy  of  levels  of  knowledge."" 

This  revaluation  of  purpose  and  organization  dictated  a  new  view,  yet 
Mies  sought  to  escape  its  implications  through  a  new  definition:  "Order 
is  more  than  organization.  Organization  is  setting  aims.  Order  gives 
sense."'* 

This  change  in  position,  from  the  materialistic-positivistlc  "what"  to  the 
idealistic  "how,"  occurred  in  1925/26.  The  contradictions  between  his 
proclaimed  theory  and  architectural  projects  had  already  hinted  at  the 
new  orientation.  Mies  prescribed  the  radical  therapy  for  Baukunst  of 
self  restraint  in  favor  of  objectivism  which  should  have  brought  forth 
schematic  sketches,  instead  Mies  prepared  a  potion  of  large  format 
perspectives  which  served  as  an  aesthetic  overdose.  For  all  his  awe  of 
engineering  and  construction  his  most  extraordinary  aspirations  are 
unmistakably  artistic. 

Closer  observation  of  these  projects  shows  many  symbolic  relics  In  the 
form  of  allusions  to  classicism.  For  example,  in  his  Concrete  Office 
Building  Mies  divided  the  end  bays  into  three  creating  a  structure  which 
appears  "formless"  from  the  outside,  but  presents  a  classical  A-B-A 
rhythm  inside.  Visible  traces  of  the  academic  tradition  also  appear  in 
the  entrance  done  in  the  manner  of  an  enclosed  portal  niche  with  pier 
support  and  expansive  stairs,  appearing  to  follow  a  classical  solution 
and  reminding  the  initiated  of  Schinkel's  Berlin  Altes  Museum.  Also, 
hardly  seen  at  first  glance,  the  floors  gradually  project  out  on  each 


31 


MIES      AS      SELF-EDUCATOR 


higher  level  through  the  progressive  enlarging  of  the  corner  windows 
on  each  story.  Already  in  1919  J.  J.  P.  Oud  referred  to  the  sculptural 
possibility  concrete  construction  allowed  In  a  building  not  only  In  the 
traditional  stepping  "back  from  bottom  to  top,"  but  also  the  reverse,  "to 
project  out  from  bottom  to  top."'^ 

This  solution  showed  the  functional  value  of  the  classicism  Mies  learned 
from  Behrens.  This  hidden  classicism  permitted  Mies  the  artist  to  do 
what  his  dogmatic  theory  of  "building"  forbade.  Thus  the  plastic  qual- 
ities of  concrete,  which  fascinated  the  artist,  could  be  honestly  ex- 
pressed as  an  aesthetic  device  without  jeopardizing  the  engineering 
characteristic  of  its  programmatic  logic  or  its  objectiveness. 
Reducing  the  problem  of  a  building  to  essentials  did  not  lead  to  aesthetic 
solutions  as  Mies  had  argued.  The  "schematic"  which  existed  already  in 
the  task  "and  therefore  found  expression  in  its  character"^"  demanded 
suppression  of  the  aesthetic.  What  the  manifestoes  did  not  mention  the 
depicted  architecture  proclaimed.  Mies  sought  to  reconcile  the  objec- 
tive world  of  facts  and  reality  with  his  world  of  observed  understand- 
ing. Mies  the  artist  permitted  the  eyes  certain  rights  even  in  his  first 
explanation  of  his  glass  skyscrapers.  Their  independent  shape  did  not 
result  from  needs  of  construction  but  depended  solely  on  aesthetic 
considerations.  Issues  of  appearance  determined  the  surface  of  the  skin 
and  bone  structures.  He  countered  "the  dangers  of  appearing  dead" 
with  the  play  of  reflections.  ^' 

These  architectural  plans  displayed  qualities  which  Mies's  theories 
neither  allowed  nor  explained.  Not  until  1924  to  1926  did  explanations 
appear  which  simultaneously  permitted  relaxation  of  this  position  and 
its  reassessment  after  being  stretched  in  two  directions.  In  1927  setting 
parameters  became  the  dominant  theme  of  Mies's  position.  The  de- 
mands he  now  placed  on  himself  and  histime  are  marked  by  "lifting  the 
tasks  out  of  a  one-sided  and  doctrinaire  atmosphere""  and  a  "justice  to 
both  parts.""  that  is,  the  objective  and  the  subjective. 
Mies  set  the  tone  for  his  new  view  in  the  foreword  for  the  publication  of 
the  1927  Weissenhofsiedlung  beginning, "It  is  not  totally  meaningless 
today  to  point  out  that  the  problem  of  the  new  house  is  primarily  a 
Baukunstlerisches  artistic  architectural  problem,  in  spite  of  its  techni- 
cal and  economic  aspects.  It  is  a  complex  problem  and  can  be  solved 
only  through  creative  energy,  not  through  calculation  and  organi- 
zational means. "^^ 
In  1924  Mies  argued  vehemently  for  a  fundamental  reorganization  of 


architecture  through  industrialization  which  would  answer  social,  eco- 
nomic and  artistic  questions,^^  now,  in  1927,  he  criticized  the  "clamor 
for  'rationalization  and  standardization'"  which  accompanied  the  "call 
for  economically  efficient  housing,"  in  his  Weissenhof  position  state- 
ment.^* Rationalization  and  standardization,  the  backbone  of  indus- 
trialized architecture,  now  appeared  to  be  only  "slogans,"  which  did  not 


Ludwlg  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Concrete 
Office  Building   Project.  1922.  Courtesy  of 
Museum  of  Modern  Art. 

Karl  Frledrich  Schlnkel,  Altes  Museum, 
Berlin.  1823-30.  Entrance.  Courtesy  of 
Fritz  Neumeyer. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe, 
Weissenhofsiedlung,  Stuttgart,  1927. 
Courtesy  of  Fritz  Neumeyer. 


32 


MIES      AS      S  E  L  F  -  E  D  U  C  A  T  O  R 


aim  at  the  crux,  butonly  aspects,  of  the  problem.  With  these  words  iviies 
abandoned  his  position  of  1924  supporting  the  industrialization  of 
architecture. 

The  change  in  Mies's  position  between  1924  and  1927  is  marked  by  his 
moving  from  materialism  toward  idealism.  This  change  is  reflected  in 
his  statement  of  1924  when  Mies  saw  the  "central  problem  of  architec- 
ture today"  as  one  of  "a  question  of  materials"  and  1927  when  he 
considered  it  "basically  an  intellectual  problem.""  For  Mies  the  "cre- 
ative energies"  of  the  intellect  won  out  over  calculating  and  organi- 
zational means. 

At  the  1930  convention  of  the  Deutscher  Werkbund  in  Vienna,  Mies 
concluded  his  speech  by  reaffirming  his  new  position  and  by  denying 
mechanistic  and  functionalistic  doctrine,  a  doctrine  he  would  later 
equate  with  modern  architecture.  He  said. 

The  new  era  is  a  fact:  It  exists.  Irrespective  of  our  'yes'  or  'no.'  It  is  pure  fact .... 

One  thing  will  be  decisive:  how  we  will  assert  ourselves  In  the  face  of  facts.  Here 

the  problems  of  the  spirit  begin.  Not  the  'what'  but  alone  the  'how'  Is  decisive. 

That  we  produce  goods  and  with  what  means  we  fabricate  Is  of  no  Intellectual 

consequence. 

Whether  we  build  high  or  low,  with  steel  or  glass,  says  nothing  about  the  value  of 

these  structures. 

Whether  we  strive  for  centralization  or  decentralization  In  our  cities  Is  a  practical 

question,  not  one  of  value. 

Yet  It  is  the  question  of  value  which  Is  decisive. 

We  must  set  new  values,  note  ultimate  function,  to  establish  new  measures. 

Sense  and  justice  of  any  era,  also  the  new  one,  lies  singularly  and  alone  In  the 

supposition  that  the  spirit  Is  given  the  right  to  exist. ^' 

These  sentences  speak  in  terms  of  closeness  and  distance,  calling  and 
warning,  yes  and  no.  Perceived  as  one  of  the  outstanding  figures  of 
modern  architecture  because  of  the  Barcelona  Pavilion  and  Tugendhat 
House,  Mies  accepted  the  objecti  veness  of  the  epoch  as  a  necessary  fact 
—  which  no  doubt  held  its  own  possibilities  —  but  denied  it  as  a  goal  and 
theme  of  Baukunst.  In  opening  his  campaign  on  two  fronts,  Mies  coun- 
tered any  type  of  one  sidedness,  allowing  neither  the  objective  power  of 
technology,  nor  the  individual  act  of  free  interpretation  by  an  artist- 
individual  to  be  given  preference. 

For  Mies  the  architect's  decisive  consideration  was  not  principally 
practical  but  philosophical.  One  built  not  so  much  to  provide  functional 
living  space,  but  to  define  a  specific  quality  of  life.  The  concept  of  quality 
was  not  a  retreat  into  elitism,  but  a  stride  toward  an  optimal  solution 


achieving  results  on  a  broad  scale.  Mies  founded  this  conviction  on  his 
view  of  the  social  function  of  art  and  Baukunst.  When  called  to  the 
Bauhaus  in  1930  Mies  incorporated  this  notion  into  his  principles  of 
teaching  thereby  giving  the  Bauhaus  a  new  structure.  In  his  1928  lec- 
ture Die  Voraussetzungen  baukunstlerlschen  Schaffens  (The  Pre- 
requisites for  Creating  Artistic  Construction),  Mies  proposed  that 
teaching  offered  the  possibility  "of  unfolding  consciously  artistic  and 
spiritual  values  in  the  hard  and  clear  atmosphere  of  technology."" 
In  striving  toward  this  intellectual  goal  Mies  saw  himself  allied  with  the 
philosopher  of  religion  Romano  Guardini  and  the  architect  Rudolf 
Schwarz,  both  of  whom  he  knew.  As  late  as  1950  Mies  based  his 
philosophy  of  Baukunst  on  their  concepts  of  baukunstlerlsctier  Er- 
ziehung  (learning  artistic  construction),  concepts  Mies  had  formulated 
in  1938.  With  the  transformation  of  two  decades  of  self  discovery  into 
an  uncomplicated,  unified  mental  construct,  Mies  said  goodbye  to 
Europe.  His  acceptance  speech  for  the  position  of  Director  of  the 
School  of  Architecture  at  the  Armour  Institute  of  Technology  in  1938, 
composed  in  Germany  before  his  departure,  marks  the  end  of  his 
European  career.  Nowhere  else  does  Mies  express  his  philosophy  of 
Baukunst  with  such  logic,  clarity,  perception  and  conviction.  While  all 
around  him  architectural  culture  was  borne  to  the  grave  by  the  rhythm 
of  marching  feet,  Mies  created  in  a  few  pages  a  concept  of  an  ideal  order 
in  which  "the  world  of  our  creation  should  begin  to  flower  anew."^° 
The  Miesian  order  of  Baukunst.  following  the  method  of  architectural 
education  Mies  had  learned  through  the  philosophical  writings  of 
Romano  Guardini,  Georg  Simmel,  Max  Scheler,  Eduard  Spranger  and 
Henri  Bergson  derived  from  a  philosophy  of  opposites  and  its  effect  on 
culture.  From  this  philosophy  Mies  unfolded  hisown  order  of  opposites 
which  leads  to  a  higher  unity.  For  Mies  the  primary  differentiation  lay 
between  man's  "vital  existence"  and  value,  founded  in  man's  "spiritual 
designation"  and  made  possible  by  his  "spiritual  being."  Mies's  point  of 
departure  was  set:  "Our  definition  of  purpose  defines  the  character  of 
our  civilization,  our  definition  of  value  the  light  of  our  culture."  There- 
fore "genuine  learning"  aimed  "not  only  at  purpose  but  also  at  value.  "^' 
From  this  totality  of  opposites  the  premise  of  Baukunst  Is  derived:  "As 
much  as  purpose  and  value  are  essentially  opposites  and  from  different 
levels,  they  are  united.  What  else  should  our  value  system  make  refer- 
ence to  if  not  value.  Both  realms  together  predicate  human  existence  .  . . 
If  these  notions  are  true  for  all  human  endeavor,  even  for  the  slightest 


33 


MIES      AS      SELF-EDUCATOR 


hint  of  value,  how  much  more  binding  must  they  be  in  the  realm  of 
Baukunst.  The  essence  of  Baukunst  is  rooted  totally  in  the  purposeful. 
But  it  reaches  across  all  levels  of  value,  to  the  realm  of  spiritual  being, 
into  the  realm  of  reason,  the  sphere  of  pure  art.  Every  method  of 
architectural  education  must  account  for  this  fact .  .  .  .  " 
For  Mies  building  followed  a  route  of  realization,  which  made  "clear" 
step  by  step  "...  that  which  is  possible,  necessary  and  sensible,"  in 
order  to  get  "from  the  irresponsibility  of  opinion  to  the  responsibility  of 
insight,"  and  thereby  achieve  "the  clear  conformity  of  spiritual  order." 
Again  the  stations  the  architect  passed  in  order  to  find  himself  and  his 
way  to  Baukunst  are  autobiographical:  "The  disciplined  path  from 
material  through  purposes  of  building"  to  "the  sphere  of  pure  art," 
duplicates  the  route  Mies  took  from  an  apprenticeship  as  a  stone  mason 
through  his  radical  material  and  functional  concerns  of  the  early  twen- 
ties to  the  final  idealistic  creation  of  1929. 

The  scope  of  the  above  dimensions  becomes  clear  through  comparison 
of  the  following  assertions.  In  1938  Mies  led  his  listeners,  just  as  in  his 
1923  lecture  Solved  Problems  into  the  "healthy  world  of  primitive 
building."  In  1923  Mies  asked  his  audience,  "Have  you  ever  seen  any- 
thing more  complete  in  fulfilling  its  function  and  in  its  use  of  material?" 
while  showing  them  a  leaf  hut  and  other  primitive  skin  and  bone  struc- 
tures created  out  of  walrus  ribs  and  seal  hides. ^-  But  in  1938,  these 
marvels  had  broader  implications,  for  aesthetic  interest  added  to  these 
basic  creations  where  "every  ax  bite  still  had  meaning  and  where  a 
chisel  mark  was  a  genuine  exclamation."  Mies  continued,  "What  feeling 
for  material  and  what  power  of  expression  speaks  in  these  buildings? 
What  warmth  they  radiate,  and  how  beautiful  they  are.  They  echo  like 
old  songs.  In  stone  structures  we  find  the  same.  Which  natural  urge 
does  it  express?  . .  .  Where  do  we  find  such  a  wealth  in  structure.  Where 
else  but  here  do  we  find  a  healthier  strength  and  natural  beauty.  With 
what  self  assured  clarity  does  the  beamed  ceiling  rest  on  this  old 
masonry  and  with  what  feeling  was  a  door  cut  out  of  these  walls." 
The  "unknown  master"  who  created  these  elemental  images  of  ex- 
istence had  a  clear  and  natural  understanding  of  materials,  imbuing 
them  with  symbolic  meaning.  The  building  of  any  epoch  could  be  an 
example.  Here  opposing  realms  of  life,  vital  existence  and  spiritual 
being,  created  an  almost  self-evident  and  therefore  generally  accept- 
able unity.  A  similar  bridge  between  subject  and  object,  carrying  the 
concept  of  culture  as  a  single  unit,  exists  for  contemporary  man  when 


exercising  authority  over  modern  materials  and  techniques.  But  he  had 
not  yet  dared  to  build.  The  existence  of  these  means  in  themselves  does 
not  presuppose  a  value.  Therefore,  as  Mies  points  out,  there  need  exist 
no  modern  feelings  of  superiority  over  primitive  building:  "We  promise 
ourselves  nothing  from  the  materials,  but  only  their  proper  handling. 
Even  the  new  materials  do  not  assure  us  superiority.  Each  material  is 
only  worth  that  which  we  make  out  of  it."^^ 

Only  an  understanding  of  those  possibilities  hidden  in  the  essence  of  a 
material  leads  to  a  fundamental  understanding  of  real  form.  The  ques- 
tions must  be  asked:  "We  want  to  know  what  it  can  be,  what  it  must  be, 
and  what  it  may  not  be.  We  want  to  know  its  essence." 
Aside  from  the  nature  of  materials  and  the  nature  of  function,  Baukunst 
demands  to  know  "the  spiritual  place  in  which  we  are,"  and  to  discern 
the  "sustaining  and  driving  forces."  Only  after  this  Is  known  can  a  critic 
of  the  epoch  be  possible:  "We  will  attempt  to  pose  real  questions. 
Questions  of  value  and  of  the  purpose  of  technology.  We  want  to  show 
that  it  [technology]  lends  us  not  only  might  and  grandeur  but  also 
contains  risks.  That  technology  too,  is  subject  to  good  and  evil.  And  that 
man  must  make  the  right  decision." 


Pygmy  Village,  c.1905.  Courtesy  of  James 
J.  Harrison.  Life  Among  the  Pygmies, 
1905. 


34 


MIES      AS      S  E  L  F  -  E  D  U  C  A  T  O  R 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe  standing 
before  tlie  steei  skeleton  of  the 
Farnsworth  House,  Piano,  c.1950. 
Courtesy  of  Fritz  Neumeyer. 


Yet  every  decision  —  and  here  Mies  pursues  the  logical  construction  of 
his  spiritual  home  without  limit  —  leads  to  a  specific  order:  "Therefore 
we  want  to  illuminate  the  possible  orders  and  clarify  their  principles." 
The  fundamental  division  into  materialistic  and  idealistic  order  with 
which  Mies  finally  concludes  brings  his  philosophical  experiences  and 
architectural  possibilities  to  their  lowest  common  denominator.  Mies 
says,  "the  mechanical  principle  of  order,"  with  which  the  buildings  of 
1923  were  branded  through  an  "overemphasis  of  material  and  func- 
tional tendencies,"  were  rejected  because  they  did  not  satisfy  "our 
sense  of  the  servile  function  of  material  and  our  interest  in  integrity  and 
value."  The  "idealistic  principle  of  order"  to  which  his  ideal  buildings  of 
1929/31  related  also  could  not  be  affirmed,  because  in  its  "overem- 
phasis of  the  ideal  and  formal"  it  neither  satisfied  interest  in  "truth  and 
simplicity"  nor  "practical  reason." 

Mies  made  no  decision  for  his  "organic  principle  of  order,"  aimed  at  a 
"sense  and  purpose  of  measure  of  the  parts."  This  principle,  not  to  be 
interpreted  in  the  sense  of  a  biological  parallel,  derived  its  intellectual 
and  conceptual  counterpart  from  Romano  Guardini's  Philosophle  des 
Lebendlg-Konkreten .  which  recalled  Plato  anc/  Nietzsche.  ForGuardini 
organic  designated  that  sphere  of  life  in  which  the  contradictions  of 
matter  and  spirit,  purpose  and  value,  technique  and  art  might  possibly 
refer  to  a  mutually  inclusive  existence.  In  it  lay  hidden  the  creative 
principle  which  could  bring  man  and  things  together,  which  through 
the  "proportions  between  things""  brought  forth  beauty. 
Mies  concluded  his  1938  address  with  St.  Augustine.  Already  in  1928 
Mies  saw  in  him  a  brilliant  founder  of  order  who  sought  to  introduce  a 
spiritual  measure  into  life  by  aiming  at  "one  goal,"  namely  that  of 
"creating  order  in  the  desperate  confusion  of  our  time,"  to  transform 
chaos  to  cosmos.  Mies  concluded,  "But  we  want  an  order  which  allows 
each  thing  its  place.  And  we  want  to  give  each  thing  its  due  according  to 
its  nature.  That  we  want  to  do  so  completely  that  the  world  of  our 
creations  begins  to  blossom  from  within.  More  we  do  not  want.  More 
we  cannot  do.  Through  nothing  the  sense  and  goal  of  our  work  is  made 
more  manifest  than  the  profound  words  of  St.  Augustine:  'Beauty  is  the 
splendor  of  truth"." 

This  "Summa  Theologica"  of  Miesian  Baukunst  was  binding.  As  the 
1965  publication.  Thoughts  on  the  education  in  Baukunst  indicated 
nothing  new  could  be  added.  The  principle  framework  of  Mies's 
Baukunst,  as  outlined  in  his  1938  lecture,  was  set  and  final. 


Only  by  passing  through  an  objective  order  could  man  attain  a  "self 
worth,  which  is  called  his  culture."  Out  of  this  "the  object  becomes  the 
subject  and  the  subject  becomes  the  object, '  (after  a  concept  expressed 
by  Georg  Simmel  in  his  essay,  "Philosophy  of  Culture,"  which  Mies 
owned),  the  specific,  which  defined  the  cultural  process,  is  created. ^^  In 
an  analogous  context  Mies  saw  technology  as  "a  genuine  cultural 
movement ...  a  world  unto  itself."  From  the  encounter  of  technology 
and  Baukunst  architecture  emerged  in  the  sense  of  the  "culture  of 
building."  Mies  said,  "It  is  our  sincere  hope  that  they  will  unite,  that  some 
day  one  will  be  the  expression  of  the  other.  Only  then  will  we  have 
architecture  as  the  true  symbol  of  the  epoch. "^^ 

The  treadmill  of  history,  the  eternal  return  of  the  metaphysical 
bridgehead,  which  marked  Simmel's  Nietzsche  inspired  concept  of 


«s*^..;.-:v^^^^.3^;:'J2' 


35 


MIES      AS      SELF-EDUCATOR 


culture,  found  expression  in  IVIies,  wino  said,  "In  endlessly  slow  gesta- 
tion the  grand  form  Is  created  whose  birthing  Is  the  function  of  the 
epoch  .  .  .  Not  all  that  occurs,  is  carried  out  In  the  realm  of  the  visible. 
The  decisive  engagements  of  the  Intellect  are  decided  on  invisible 
battlefields.  The  visible  is  only  the  last  step  of  an  historic  fact.  Its  realiza- 
tion. Its  true  realization.  Then  it  ends.  And  a  new  world  arises."" 
The  steel  skeleton  embodied  and  symbolized  for  Mies  that  objective 
order  through  which  the  Baukunst  of  the  age  steps  toward  educational 
self-recognition  and  technical  order  which  may  then  be  transformed 
Into  culture.  Mies  strove  to  lay  the  foundation  for  such  an  objective 
culture.  In  which  technical  and  spiritual  values  merged  to  form  a  higher 
unity  and  rise  In  "self-realization  '  (Simmel).  His  concept  of  Baukunst 
sought  to  Integrate  the  new  world  of  construction  into  the  humanistic 
cosmos.  It  is"simultaneously  radical  and  conservative,  radical,  because 
It  affirms  the  scholarly  power  to  carry  and  drive  our  age  .  . .  conserva- 
tive, because  It  not  only  serves  a  purpose,  but  also  a  value,  and  it  is 
subject  not  only  to  function,  but  also  expression.  It  is  conservative 
because  it  Is  founded  on  the  eternal  truths  of  architecture:  order,  space, 
proportion."^* 

The  "disciplined  path"  from  material  through  purpose  to  idea  is  the 
curriculum  vitae  which  Mies  followed  in  his  own  self-education.  It  did 
not  trust  In  the  teachability  of  Baukunst  but  in  the  training  of  hand,  eye 
and  mind.  It  is  in  this  sense  that  Mies's  words,  "fulfill  the  law  to  win 
freedom"^^  are  meant.  [Translated  by  Rolf  Achilles] 

NOTES 

1  Katherine  Kuh,  ''Mies  van  der  Rohe:  Modern  Classicist."  Saturday  Review.  23  January 
1965.  p. 61. 

2  Adolf  Loos.  Trotzaem  1900-1930.  Innsbruck.  1931,  plOI. 

3  Franz  Schuize,  Mies  van  aer  Rohe:  A  Critical  Biography .  Chicago;  University  of  Chicago 
Press,  1985.  pp. 17-18. 

4  Doris  Schmidt,  ■Glaserne  Wande  fur  den  BlicK  auf  die  Welt  —  Zum  Tode  Mies  van  der 
Rohe,"'  Sudaeutsche  Zeltung.  Nr.198.  19  August  1969.  p. 11,  quoted  from  Wolfgang 
Frieg.  Ludwig  Mies  van  aer  Rohe:  Das  europalsche  Werk  1907—1937.  Bonn,  1976. 
(Diss.),  p.  60. 

5  On  Mies's  notebook  and  his  relation  to  philosophy  see  my  book:/W/es  van  der  Rohe  -Das 
kunstlose  Wort.  GedanHen  zur  Baukunst.  Berlin,  1986. 

6  Mies  in  conversation  with  Peter  Carter,  Bauen  und  Wohnen.  16,  1961,  p.  230  ff. 

7  Rudolf  Fahrner,  ed..  Paul  Thiersch.  Leben  und  Werk.  Berlin.  1970,  p.  27.  Also,  in 
conversation  w/ith  Dirk  Lohan.  Mies  said,  "When  I  had  completed  the  house  (Riehl), 
Thiersch,  whom  we  recently  heard  from,  came.  Thiersch  had  been  with  Behrens.  and 
then  becameoffice  supervisor  for  Bruno  Paul,  and  he  said  to  methat  Behrens  had  asked 
him  to  tell  him  when  he  had  some  good  people  and  to  send  these  people  to  him.  He  told 
me.  You  should  really  go  see  him,  he's  a  top  man.'  That's  how  I  came  to  Behrens." 
Unpublished  manuscript,  Mies  Archive,  Museum  of  Modern  Art.  [MoMA]. 


8  [Translator's  note:  the  term  Baukunst  is  not  translated  in  this  essay.  It  is  an  important 
concept  for  Mies  and  has  been  variously  translated  as  the  art  of  building,  the  art  of 
construction,  and  building  art.] 

9  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  'Arbeitsthesen,"  G,  nr.  1,  July  1923,  p   3. 
10   Mies  van  der  Rohe,  "Bauen."  G,  nr.  2,  September  1923,  p.  1.  ff. 

1  1  Noteon  the  verso  of  the  manuscript  "Betonhaus,""  1  October  1923,  Mies  Archive,  Library 
of  Congress,  [LC]. 

12  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  "Bauen,"  G,  nr.  2,  September  1923,  p.  1 

13  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  letter  to  the  BDA-Berlin,  16  June  1925,  Mies  Archive,  MoMA. 

14  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Lecture  Manuscript,  19  June  1924.  Dirk  Lohan  Archive. 

15  J.J.  P.  Oud,"Wohinfuhrtdas  neue  Bauen:  Kunst  und  Standard,  "O/e  Form.  3.  1928,  p.  61. 

16  Mies's  notebook,  fol.  22,  Mies  Archive,  MoMA. 

17  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Lecture  Manuscript  on  art  criticism,  1930,  fol.  5,  Mies  Archive, 
MoMA, 

18  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Lecture  Manuscript,  Chicago,  undated,  Ic.  19601,  Mies  Archive,  LC. 

19  J.J.  P.  Cud,  "Uber  die  zukunftige  Baukunst  und  ihre  architektonischen  Moglichketen." 
Fruhlicht  1,  1922,  Heft  4.  Reprinted  in  Bruno  Taut,  FruAi/Zchf  1920-1922.  Berlin,  1963,  p. 
206.  Mies's  first  essay  "Hochhauser."  also  appeared  in  this  magazine. 

20  See  note  14. 

21  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  "Hochhauser." 

22  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  ["Foreword,""]  Bau  und  Wohnung.  Stuttgart:  Deutscher  Werkbund, 
1927,  p.  7. 

23  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  "Zu  meinem  Block,""  Bau  und  Wohnung. 

24  See  note  22. 

25  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  "■Industrielles  Bauen,""  G,  Nr.  3.  June  1924,  p.  8ff. 

26  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  •Preliminary  comments  to  the  first  special  publication  of  the 
Werkbund-exhibit,"  Die  Wohnung.  Stuttgart,  1927,  in  Die  Form.  2.  1927,  H.  9.  p.  257. 

27  ibid. 

28  Mies  van  der  Rohe,   "Die  neu  Zeit.  "  Die  Form.  5,  1930,  H.  15.  p.  406. 

29  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  'Die  Voraussetzungen  baukunstlerischen  Schaffens."  Lecture,  Feb- 
ruary, 1928.  Dirk  Lohan  Archive. 

30  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  [Inaugural  Address  as  Director  of  Architecture  at  Armour  Institute  of 
Technology,]  presented  at  the  Testimonial  Dinner  in  the  Palmer  House,  Chicago,  18 
October  1938. 

31  Various  Mies  quotes  with  no  special  context.  On  the  differentiation  of  value  and  purpose 
Mies  marked  several  passages  in  Alois  Riehl,  Zur  EInfuhrung  in  die  Phllosophle  der 
Gegenwart.  Leipzig,  1908.  especially  p.  9.  p.  183f.  (double  markings)  and  p.  187f. 
(double  markings  along  passage  on  values,  beliefs,  morals  and  production).  Copy  in 
Dirk  Lohan  Archive. 

32  See  Appendix  for  complete  text  of  Miess  1923  lecture. 

33  Mies  marked  passages  in  Eduard  Spranger,  Lebensformen.  Geisteswissenschaftllche 
Psychologie  una  Ethik  der  Personlichkelt.  Halle/Salle.  1922,  p.  325f..on  the  question  of 
life  and  technology. 

34  Excerpted  from  an  interview  with  the  Bayrischer  Rundfunk  (Bavarian  Radio)  on  the 
occasion  of  Miess  80th  birthday;  published  in  Der  Architekt.  15,  1966,  H.  10,  p.  324, 
where  Mies  discusses  Baukunst  See  also,  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  "Schon  und  praktisch 
bauen!  Schluss  mit  der  kalten  Zweckmaszigkeit,"  Duisburger  Generalanzelger.  49.  26 
January  1930,  p.  2,  where  Mies  discusses  beauty.  Also,  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Radio 
Address  Manuscript,  17  August  1931,  Dirk  Lohan  Archive,  where  Mies  discusses  prop- 
ortion. 

35  Georg  Simmel,  "Zur  Phllosophle  der  Kultur,  Der  Begriff  und  dieTragodieder  Kultur,""  In 
Georg  Simmel,  Philosophlsche  Kultur.  Gesammeite  Essais.  Leipzig,  1911,  p.  203.  Copy 
In  Dirk  Lohan  Archive. 

36  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  "Architecture  and  Technology, ""/Arfs  and /Arcrt/fecfure,  67,  1950,  vol. 

10.  p.  30. 

37  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Lecture,  Chicago,  (c.1950),  Mies  Archive,  LC,  fol.  17,  18 

38  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  quoted  by  Peter  Carter,  Bauen  und  Wohnen.  16,  1961.  p,  239. 

39  See  note  37. 


36 


MIES     VAN      DER      ROME:     ARCHITECT     AND     TEACHER      IN      GERMANY 
Sandra  Honey 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Riehl  House, 
Berlin-Neubabelsberg.  1907.  Courtesy  of 
Bertel  Thorn  PrikKer. 


True  education  is  concerned  not  only  with  practical  goals  but  also  with  values. 
By  practical  aims  we  are  bound  to  the  specific  structure  of  our  epoch.  Our 
values,  on  the  other  hand,  are  rooted  in  the  spiritual  nature  of  men. 

If  teaching  has  any  purpose,  it  is  to  implant  true  insight  and  responsibility. 
Education  must  lead  us  from  irresponsible  opinion  to  true  responsibility. 
It  must  lead  us  from  chance  and  arbitrariness  to  rational  clarity  and  order. 

The  long  path  from  material  through  function  to  creative  work  has  only  a  single 
goal:  to  create  order  out  of  the  desperate  confusion  of  our  time.' 

When  he  addressed  the  Armour  Institute  of  Technology  in  1938,  Mies 
van  der  Rohe,  uprooted  from  his  native  Germany  at  the  age  of  fifty-two, 
struggled  to  convey  his  principles  to  an  audience  which  knew  little  of 
his  culture,  or  the  struggles  of  his  generation  —  the  architects  who,  in 
two  decades,  had  created  European  modern  architecture, 
in  this  speech  Mies  presented  the  core  of  his  teaching,  the  relation  of 
architecture  to  its  period  and  the  expression  of  the  period's  sustaining 
force.  Among  his  generation,  Mies  sought  to  Interpret  the  spirit  of  the 
time  in  his  architecture.  He  demonstrated  how  to  translate  theory  Into 
an  architecture  of  simplicity  and  beauty.  His  genius  lies  In  this  intense 
clarity  of  perception. 

Mies  ended  his  inaugural  speech  by  saying  "Nothing  can  express  the 
aim  and  meaning  of  our  work  better  than  the  profound  words  of  St. 
Augustine:  'Beauty  is  the  splendor  of  Truth". "^ 

On  this  high  moral  note  he  began  a  long  teaching  career  In  Chicago.  If 
his  teaching  is  to  be  fully  appreciated  and  his  educational  principles  are 
to  guide  the  student  towards  the  goals  Mies  set  for  himself,  an  under- 
standing of  his  methods  is  essential,  for  he  said,  "We  must  understand 


the  motives  and  forces  of  our  time  and  analyze  their  structure  from 
three  points  of  view:  the  material,  the  functional  and  the  spiritual."^ 
Some  of  the  motives  and  forces  inspiring  Mies's  generation  were  ex- 
pressed In  pamphlets  and  manifestos  published  by  such  organizations 
as  the  Deutscher  Werkbund  and  the  Bauhaus.  Many  architects  were 
obsessed  with  the  birth  of  the  new  technological  society  and  the  form 
this  society  would  generate. 

More  than  any  other  architect  of  his  generation,  Mies  penetrated  the 
discussion  and  Isolated  Its  significant  aspects  and  ideas.  He  defended 
the  art  of  architecture  and  once,  In  an  impromptu  speech,  he  explained. 

The  role  of  the  critic  is  to  test  a  work  of  art  from  the  point  of  view  of  significance 
and  value.  To  do  this,  however,  the  critic  must  first  understand  the  work  of  art. 
This  is  not  easy.  Works  of  art  have  a  life  of  their  own;  they  are  not  accessible  to 
everyone.  If  they  are  to  have  meaning  for  us  we  must  approach  them  on  their 
own  terms." 

Mies  left  his  native  Aachen  in  1905  and  moved  to  Berlin,  where  within 
three  months  he  apprenticed  to  Bruno  Paul,  a  Bavarian,  who  headed  the 
School  of  the  Decorative  Arts  Museum  where  Mies  registered  for  two 
years. 

Mies  left  Paul  on  receiving  his  first  architectural  commission  —  the 
Riehl  house  near  Potsdam.  Professor  Riehl  sent  Mies  to  Italy  for  three 
months  and  on  his  return  he  designed  a  simple  house  in  the  local 
manner.  In  1908  Mies  joined  the  office  of  Peter  Behrens  who  was  then 
chief  designer  and  architect  for  A. E.G.,  the  German  electrical  company. 
Behrens,  the  most  Influential  architect  in  Berlin,  had  been  a  leading 
exponent  of  the  Art  Nouveau  Movement  brought  to  Germany  by  Henri 


37 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER   IN  GERMANY 


van  de  Velde.  Hermann  Muthesius,  a  close  friend  and  collaborator  of 
Behrens,  reported  on  the  English  Arts  and  Crafts  Movement  on  his 
return  to  Berlin  in  1903.  Muthesius  Interpreted  the  planning  of  the 
English  country  house  as  functional  and  declared  that  scientific  Sach- 
llchkelt  (objectivity)  was  to  guide  architecture.  He  insisted  that  archi- 
tecture and  design  should  merge  into  a  single  discipline  becoming  a 
Gesamtkunstwerk  where  every  article  of  daily  use  and  the  structures  of 
engineers  should  belong  to  the  field  and  activity  of  the  architect- 
designer. 

Although  Muthesius  was  not  a  founding  member  of  the  Werkbund.  he 
was  the  first  to  formulate  what  later  would  become  part  of  its  program. 
Muthesius  said  the  Werkbund  should  "help  form  recover  its  rights,"  and 
be  the  creator  and  perpetrator  of  a  German  taste  industry,  aided  by  state 
policy.  Mies  said  of  his  stay  in  Behrens's  office  that,  "It  then  became  clear 
to  me  that  it  was  not  the  task  of  architecture  to  invent  form.  I  tried  to 
understand  what  that  task  was.  I  asked  Peter  Behrens,  but  he  could  not 
give  me  an  answer."^ 

Mies  supervised  construction  of  Behrens's  embassy  building  in  St. 
Petersburg  —  a  monumental  edifice  modeled  on  Schinkel's  Altes 
Museum.  While  working  for  Behrens,  Mies  was  commissioned  pri- 
vately to  build  the  Villa  Perls  in  191 1.  The  smooth,  symmetrical  eleva- 
tions of  this  simple  neo-classical  villa  resemble  Behrens's  stripped 
classical  work  of  the  same  period. 

Mies  recalled  that,  "Under  Behrens  I  learnt  the  grand  form,  if  you  see 
what  I  mean,  the  monumental."* 

Also  at  this  time  Mies  studied  Schinkel,  especially  his  scale,  proportion 
and  rhythm.  In  1912  Mies  traveled  to  The  Hague  with  Behrens's  scheme 
for  the  Kroller-Muller  family  house,  and  he  stayed  when  he  gained  the 
commission  himself,  but  which  he  never  completed.  He  now  studied 
Berlage  who,  Mies  said,  "was  a  man  of  great  seriousness  who  would  not 
accept  anything  that  was  fake  and  it  was  he  who  had  said  that  nothing 
should  be  built  that  is  not  clearly  constructed."^ 

Berlage  despised  the  irrelevant,  preaching  the  elementary  truths  of  the 
primacy  of  space,  the  importance  of  walls  as  creators  of  form,  and  the 
need  for  systematic  proportion.  He  declared  that,  "Before  all  else  the 
wall  must  be  shown  in  all  its  sleek  beauty.  Its  nature  as  a  plane  must 
remain." 

Through  his  stay  in  Holland,  Mies  rediscovered  the  brick.  The  Influence 
of  Schinkel  and  Berlage  remained  with  Mies  throughout  his  career. 


The  development  of  the  new  rational  German  architecture  was  slowed 
by  four  years  of  war.  By  1919  Utopian  idealism  and  exuberant  indi- 
vidualism in  nearly  every  German  city  led  artists,  architects  and 
sculptors  to  found  revolutionary  societies  to  bring  modern  art  to  the 
people.  Berlin  became  the  most  active  center  of  art  and  culture  in 
Europe  in  the  early  1920's.  It  sucked  in  such  new  movements  as  Dutch 
De  StijI,  Russian  Constructivism  and  Suprematism,  Swiss  Dadaism, 
and  French  Cubism  and  Purism,  and  the  pre-war  German  Expressionist 
Movement  regained  momentum.  New  radical  periodicals  proliferated; 
established  magazines  became  radical,  while  editorial  policies  varied, 
they  all  claimed  modern  art  alone  could  bring  culture  to  the  people. 
They  all  demanded  state  patronage. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Perls  House, 
Berlin- Zehlendorf.  1911.  Courtesy  of 
Bertel  Thorn  Prlkker. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Kroner  House 
Project.  The  Hague.  1911,  Full  scale 
model.  Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER  IN  GERMANY 


ffi 

f^ 

I   I 

m: 

■Ni 


^**>*'-f^^?^ggB 


Ludwlg  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Glass 
Skyscraper  Project,  Friedrichstrasse. 
Berlin.  1921.  First  scheme.  Collage. 
Courtesy  of  Edward  A.  Duckett. 


Through  Glass  Architecture,  published  in  1914,  Paul  Scheerbart,  the 
poet  of  crystal  architecture  inspired  Bruno  Taut's  Glass  Chain  Circle. 
Taut's  "Architektur-Programm"  of  1918  laid  down  the  alms  and  ideals 
later  adopted  by  the  organizers  of  the  great  German  social  housing 
program,  and  it  also  Inspired  Gropius's  program  for  the  Bauhaus. 
For  his  project  in  the  Friedrichstrasse  Competition  of  January  1922. 
Mies  proposed  an  all  glass  office  building  on  a  prismatic  plan  to  fit  the 
triangular  site.  Later  in  1922  he  drew  another  glass  skyscraper,  on  a 
faceted,  free-form,  curvilinear  plan,  for  an  Imaginary  site.  These  proj- 
ects were  illustrated  in  Fruhllcht  in  1922,  to  which  Mies  wrote, 

Skyscrapers  reveal  their  bold  structural  pattern  during  construction.  Only  then 
does  the  gigantic  steel  web  seem  impressive.  When  the  outer  walls  are  put  in 
place,  the  structural  system  which  is  the  basis  of  all  artistic  design,  Is  hidden  by  a 
chaos  of  meaningless  and  trivial  forms.  When  finished,  these  buildings  are 
Impressive  only  because  of  their  size:  yet  they  could  surely  be  more  than  mere 
examples  of  our  technical  ability.  Instead  of  trying  to  solve  the  new  problems 
with  old  forms,  we  should  develop  the  new  forms  from  the  very  nature  of  the 
new  problems.' 

Mies  began  to  understand  glass  in  the  rational  terms  of  the  new  order. 
This  approach  to  architecture  by  Mies  and  others  came  to  be  known  as 
sachiicti  or  swecK  architecture,  and  the  term  Die  neue  Sactiilctikeit  (the 
new  objectivity  or  practicality)  was  used  to  describe  the  movement. 
During  1923  the  ideas  of  Le  Corbusier,  the  Constructivists  and  the  De 
StijI  Group  began  to  exert  a  strong  influence  in  Germany.  The  De  StijI 
collaborators  defined  the  form  of  the  new  architecture.  Van  Doesburg's 
manifesto,  "Towards  a  Plastic  Architecture,"  published  in  1924,  proc- 
laimed the  new  architecture  was  elemental,  economic,  functional,  for- 
mal, open,  anti-cubic,  asymmetrical,  non-repetitious,  and  knew  no 
basic  type.  From  these  proclamations  the  De  StijI  architects,  drawing 
on  Berlage  and  Wright,  arrived  at  a  simple  formula  of  plain  vertical 
walls  and  flat  roofs,  free  of  decorative  elements. 
Van  Doesburg  settled  in  Weimar  from  1921  to  1923  to  be  close  to  the 
Bauhaus,  founded  in  1919  by  Walter  Gropius.  Here  he  held  a  design 
course  for  Bauhaus  and  other  interested  students,  organized  a  con- 
gress of  Constructivists  and  Dadaists,  and  lectured  extensively.  Van 
Doesburg  encouraged  the  Bauhaus  to  change  its  outlook,  although 
Laszio  Moholy-Nagy,  the  Hungarian  Constructivist,  had  more  effect  in 
the  matter.  He  took  over  the  Vorkurs  from  Johannes  Itten.  Romanti- 
cism, mysticism  and  medievalism  lost  ground. 


In  1 923,  after  four  years  of  activity  the  Bauhaus  published  a  curriculum 
which  most  students  followed  loosely.  The  Bauhaus  slogan  changed 
from  "Art  and  Handicrafts"  to  "Art  and  Technology  —  A  New  Unity." 
At  his  atelier  in  Berlin,  Mies  was  an  excellent  host.  He  shared  his  work 
space  with  Hugo  Haring,  and  they  kept  up  a  constant  dialogue.  Mies 
gave  insight  into  his  discussions  with  Haring  and  others  when  he  wrote 
in  1924  that, 

Greek  temples.  Roman  basilicas  and  medieval  cathedrals  are  significant  to  us  as 

creations  of  a  whole  epoch  rather  than  as  works  of  Individual  architects 

Such  buildings  are  impersonal  by  nature.  They  are  pure  expressions  of  their 
time.  Their  true  meaning  Is  that  they  are  symbols  of  their  epoch. 
Architecture  is  the  will  of  the  epoch  translated  into  space.  Until  this  simple  truth 
is  clearly  recognized,  the  new  architecture  will  be  uncertain  and  tentative.  Until 
then  it  must  remain  a  chaos  of  undirected  forces.  The  question  as  to  the  nature  of 
architecture  is  of  decisive  Importance.  It  must  be  understood  that  all  architecture 
is  bound  up  with  its  own  time,  that  it  can  only  be  manifested  In  living  tasks  and  In 
the  medium  of  Its  epoch,  in  no  age  has  It  been  otherwise. 
The  demand  of  our  time  for  realism  and  functlonalism  must  be  met.  Only  then 
will  our  buildings  express  the  potential  greatness  of  our  time  .... 
Our  utilitarian  buildings  can  become  worthy  of  the  name  of  architecture  only  If 
they  truly  interpret  their  time  by  their  perfect  functional  expression.' 

Mies  joined  the  Novembergruppe  in  late  1921,  becoming  chairman  of 
the  organizing  committee  for  architectural  exhibits,  a  position  he  held 
until  1926. 

During  1923  and  1924  some  of  the  architects  in  the  Novembergruppe 
gathered  in  Mies's  office  to  discuss  developments.  Among  them  were 
Otto  Bartning,  Walter  Curt  Behrendt,  Ludwlg  Hilberselmer,  Hans  Poel- 
zig,  Bruno  and  Max  Taut,  Haring  and  Mies,  and  they  became  known  as 
the  Zehner  Ring  (Circle  of  Ten).  Later,  the  circle  expanded  to  Include 
Behrens,  Gropius,  the  Luckhardt  brothers,  Ernst  May,  Hans  Scharoun 
and  Martin  Wagner.  For  its  duration,  it  remained  a  loose,  Informal 
association,  without  a  constitution  or  a  head. 

The  G  Group  also  drew  membership  from  the  Novembergruppe.  in- 
cluding six  De  StijI  collaborators,  the  Constructivist  El  Lissitsky,  Mies, 
Hilberselmer  and  Friedrich  Kiesler.  Hans  Richter  and  Werner  Graeff 
organized  the  publication  of  Zeltschrift  fur  Elementare  Gestaltung, 
known  as  G,  with  themselves  and  Lissitsky  as  editors.  Mies  replaced 
Lissitsky  on  the  editorial  board  of  G  2,  September  1 923,  and  he  financed 
the  publication  of  G  3  which  appeared  in  June  1 924  in  a  new  format.  The 
fourth  and  final  issue  of  G  appeared  in  March  1926. 
G  1  produced  slogans  and  ideas,  varied  in  origin,  but  with  a  constant 


39 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER   IN   GERMANY 


theme  of  elemental  creativity  brought  to  the  magazine  by  El  Lissitsky.  It 
included  Miess  Concrete  Office  Building  Project  of  1923  of  which  Mies 
wrote. 

The  office  building  is  a  house  of  work,  of  organization,  of  clarity,  of  economy. 
Broad,  light  workspace,  unbroken,  but  articulated  according  to  theorganizatlon 
of  the  work.  Maximum  effect  with  minimum  means. 
The  materials:  concrete,  steel,  glass. 

Reinforced  concrete  structures  are  skeletons  by  nature.  No  trimmings.  No  for- 
tress. Columns  and  girders  eliminate  load-bearing  walls.  This  is  skin  and  bone 
construction.'" 

In  the  same  issue,  speaking  for  the  G  Group.  Mies  declared, 

We  reject  all  aesthetic  speculation,  all  doctrine,  all  formalism. 

Architecture  is  the  will  of  an  epoch  translated  into  space:  living,  changing,  new. 

Not  yesterday,  not  tomorrow,  only  today  can  be  given  form. 

Only  this  kind  of  building  will  be  creative. 

Create  form  out  of  the  nature  of  our  tasks  with  the  methods  of  our  time. 

This  is  our  task. 

The  Concrete  Office  Building  can  now  be  traced  in  part  to  Schinkel's 
Altes  Museum,  and  Mies  said  later  that  he  was  "a  little  inspired  by  the 
Palazzo  Pitti,  for  I  wanted  to  see  if  we  could  make  something  of  similar 
strength  with  our  means,  and  for  our  purposes."'' 
G  2  concentrated  on  executed  works  and  projects  of  group  members.  It 
included  a  photograph  of  the  model  of  Mies's  Concrete  Country  House 
project  of  1923,  and  his  anti-formalist  manifesto: 

We  refuse  to  recognize  problems  of  form,  but  only  problems  of  building. 

Form  is  not  the  aim  of  our  work,  but  only  the  result. 

Form,  by  itself,  does  not  exist. 

Form  as  an  aim  is  formalism;  and  that  we  reject. 

Essentially  our  task  is  to  free  the  practice  of  building  from  the  control  of  aesthetic 

speculators  and  restore  it  to  what  it  should  exclusively  be:  building. 

All  G  Group  statements  took  a  hard  uncompromising  position. 
G  3  appeared  in  June  1924  with  Mies's  1922  glass  skyscraper  project  on 
the  cover,  and  a  montaged  drawing  of  his  Friedrichstrasse  Competition 
project  illustrated  Richter's  editorial.  In  this  issue  Mies  wrote. 

Industrialization  of  the  processes  of  construction  is  a  question  of  materials.  Our 
first  consideration,  therefore,  must  be  to  find  a  new  building  material.  Our 
technologists  must  and  will  succeed  in  inventing  a  material  which  can  be  indus- 
trially manufactured  and  processed  and  which  will  be  weatherproof,  sound- 
proof and  insulating.  It  must  be  a  light  material  which  not  only  permits  but 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Concrete 
Office  Building  Project.  1922.  Drawing. 
Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


requires  industrial  production.  All  the  parts  will  be  made  in  a  factory  and  the 
work  at  the  site  will  consist  only  of  assemblage,  requiring  extremely  few  man- 
hours.  This  will  greatly  reduce  building  costs.  Then  the  new  architecture  will 
come  into  its  own.'^ 

Although  slow  to  declare  his  modern  ideas,  from  1923  on  Mies  played  a 
major  role.  For  reasons  not  yet  clear  leadership  of  the  Ring  fell  to  Mies, 
and  his  authority  increased  as  the  years  passed. 

From  191 9  to  1923  Germany  experienced  great  social  unrest  and  politi- 
cal turmoil.  From  1925  to  1930  building  increased  considerably 
through  mass  housing  developmentsfinanced  by  various  federal,  state, 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Concrete 
Country  House  Project.  1924.  Model. 
Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


40 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER  IN  GERMANY 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Municipal 
Housing  Development. 
Afrlkanlschestrasse.  Berlin,  1925. 
Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe. 
Welssenhotsledlung.  Stuttgart.  1924. 
Model  of  first  scheme.  Courtesy  of  Fritz 
Neumeyer. 


municipal  political  and  commercial  agencies.  Inspiration  for  these 
housing  programs  came  primarily  from  Bruno  Taut.  His  concern  was 
no  less  than  the  restructuring  of  society. 

In  1924,  architects  of  the  new  housing  took  a  different  approach:  the 
new  dwelling  had  to  be  reorganized  and  more  advanced  technology 
used  to  alleviate  space  problems  within  cities.  The  first  real  progress 
was  made  in  Frankfurt,  where  Ernst  May  was  appointed  City  Architect 
in  1925,  and  construction  began  on  housing  estates  built  to  the  most 
stringent  budgets.  At  the  same  time,  Martin  Wagner  was  appointed  to 
the  same  post  in  Berlin.  The  impetus  for  the  new  style  of  housing  came 
from  building  societies,  particularly  from  the  largest  of  them,  gehag, 
which  at  Wagner's  request  appointed  Taut  as  chief  designer. 
Mies's  contribution  to  social  housing  in  Berlin  was  a  relatively  small 
development  on  Afrikanische  Strasse  ( 1926-27),  three  slab  blocks  and 
an  end  block  with  some  communal  facilities.  Among  the  most  distin- 
guished of  such  developments,  Mies's  buildings  were  well  planned, 
relatively  spacious,  with  well  proportioned  elevations. 
Widespread  publicity  for  the  new  German  architecture  came  in  1927 
from  an  experimental  housing  project,  the  Weissenhof  Exhibition,  or- 
ganized by  Mies  and  the  Deutscher  Werkbund.  In  1925  the  WerKbund 
began  to  publishD/e  Form,  a  magazine  of  attractive  and  lavish  format.  It 
addressed  every  aspect  of  architecture  and  design.  In  1927  Mies  van 
der  Rohe  made  his  first  contribution  to  the  Werkbund  discussion  of 
form  in  a  letter  to  the  editor, 

Dear  Dr.  Riezler, 

I  do  not  oppose  form,  but  only  form  as  an  end  in  Itself.  And  I  do  this  as  the  result  of 

a  number  of  experiences  and  the  insight  I  have  gained  from  them. 

Form  as  an  end  inevitably  results  in  formalism.  For  the  efforl  is  directed  only  to 

the  exterior.  But  only  what  has  life  on  the  inside  has  a  living  exterior.'^ 

Mies's  appointment  as  First  Vice  President  of  the  Werkbund,  responsi- 
ble for  Its  exhibition  programs,  coincided  with  the  decision  to  stage  the 
first  major  exhibition  since  Cologne  in  1914  at  Weissenhof,  a  suburb  of 
Stuttgart.  As  director  Mies  controlled  planning  and  architecture.  His 
first  scheme  for  the  hilltop  site  conceived  a  unified  community  crowned 
by  a  horizontal  block.  In  the  manner  of  Taut's  Die  Stadtkrone.  When  the 
city  insisted  on  freestanding  units,  separated  by  motor  roads,  Mies  split 
the  site  into  irregular  plots. 

By  autumn  1926  Mies  had  chosen  the  architects  to  participate,  and 
scheduled  the  exhibition  to  open  in  summer  1927.  In  the  interests  of 


uniformity,  he  stipulated  that  all  buildings  have  a  flat  roof  and  smooth 
white  finish.  In  his  foreword  to  the  exhibition  catalogue  he  wrote, 

The  problem  of  the  modern  dwelling  Is  primarily  architectural.  In  spite  of  Its 
technical  and  economic  aspects.  It  Is  a  complex  problem  of  planning  and  can 
therefore  be  solved  only  by  creative  minds,  not  by  calculation  or  organization. 
Therefore,  I  felt  It  Imperative,  In  spite  of  current  talk  about  rationalization  and 
standardization,  to  keep  the  project  at  Stuttgart  free  from  being  one-sided  or 
doctrinaire.  I  have  therefore  Invited  leading  representatives  of  the  modern 
movement  to  make  their  contribution  to  the  problem  of  the  modern  dwelling. 

The  foreign  architects  were  Le  Corbusier  with  Pierre  Jeanneret  ( Paris), 
J.J. P.  Oud  and  Mart  Stam  (Rotterdam),  Josef  Frank  (Vienna),  and  Victor 
Bourgeois  (Brussels).  Of  the  German  architects  he  selected  Behrens, 
Poelzig,  the  Taut  brothers,  Hilberseimer,  Gropius  from  Berlin,  Rading 
and  Scharoun  from  Bresiau,  while  Docker  and  Schneck  represented 
Stuttgart.  Of  Berlin  architects  the  only  significant  omission  was  Men- 
delsohn, for  Haring  was  invited  but  declined. 

The  Weissenhof  development  attempted  to  explore  new  technical 
methods  of  construction.  The  buildings  were  far  too  luxurious  and 
expensive  to  be  prototypes  for  mass  housing,  in  his  block  Mies  demon- 
strated the  potential  of  steel  frame  construction,  with  fixed  stairwells 
and  service  cores,  and  flexible  internal  planning. 
Walter  Curt  Behrendt's  Der  S/egrfes  neuen  Baustlls  (The  Victory  of  the 
New  Building  Style)  portrayed  the  atmosphere  of  1927  in  Germany,  and 
showed  that  the  Weissenhofsiedlung  demonstrated  how  progressive 
architecture,  whether  by  Le  Corbusier,  De  StijI  or  from  Berlin,  had 


41 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER   IN  GERMANY 


merged  into  a  single  aesthetic  under  the  orchestration  of  Mies  van  der 

Rohe. 

The  international  character  of  the  new  architecture  was  celebrated  by 

critics  and  architects.  Gropius  had  published  Internationale  Archltektur 

in    1925;  and  in    1927   Hilberseimer  published  Internationale  Neue 

eau/funsf.  followed  by  three  other  books  on  different  aspects  of  the  new 

style.  Opposition  also  strengthened,  with  Alexander  von  Senger's  Krisis 

der  Arctiltektur  published  in  1928  attacking  modern  architecture  as  a 

whole. 

From  1928  a  new  more  realistic  phase  of  modern  architecture  emerged 

characterized  by  the  Congres  Internationale  d'Architecture  Moderne 

(CIAM)  and  the  Dutch  group,  de  8.  The  first  CIAM  meeting  ended  with 

the  La  Sarraz  Declaration  that, 


The  destiny  of  architecture  Is  to  express  the  orientation  of  the  age.  Works  of 
architecture  can  spring  only  from  the  present  time. 

Delegates  from  European  national  associations  affirm  today  the  need  for  a  new 
conception  In  architecture  that  satisfies  the  spiritual.  Intellectual  and  material 
demands  of  present-day  life.  Conscious  of  the  deep  disturbances  of  the  social 
structure  brought  about  by  machines,  they  recognize  that  the  transformation  of 
economic  order  and  of  social  life  Inescapably  brings  with  it  a  corresponding 
transformation  of  the  architectural  phenomenon. 

Hannes  Meyer,  who  replaced  Gropius  at  the  Bauha us  in  1928,  published 
his  functionalist  theory  in  the  Bauhaus  Yearbook  entitled  "Bauen," 

All  things  In  this  world  area  product  of  the  formula:  (function  times  economy). 
All  things  are,  therefore,  not  works  of  art. 
All  life  is  function  and  therefore  unartlstlc. 

In  1929,  Bruno  Taut  echoed  Meyer's  theory,  but  added  that  beauty,  a 
concept  foreign  to  Meyer,  would  come  from  efficiency: 

The  first  and  foremost  point  at  Issue  In  any  building  should  be  how  to  attain  the 
utmost  utility. 

If  everything  is  founded  on  sound  efficiency,  this  efficiency  itself,  or  rather  Its 
utility,  will  form  Its  own  aesthetic  law. 

The  aim  of  architecture  is  the  creation  of  perfect  and,  therefore,  beautiful  effi- 
ciency. 

While  publicly  and  politically  funded  social  housing  kept  many  radical 
architects  busy,  Mies  van  der  Rohe's  wealthy  patrons  allowed  him  to 
consolidate  his  practice.  He  built  a  monument  to  the  Communists  Karl 
Liebknecht  and  Rosa  Luxembourg,  and  the  Wolf,  (Guben,  1925-1926), 
and  Lange  and  Esters  Houses  (Krefeld,  1928-30).  Developed  from  his 
Concrete  Country  House  project  of  1923,  Mies  attempted  to  modernize 
Wright.  The  smooth,  refined  brickwork  was  Dutch  in  influence,  the 
facades  were  unarticulated. 

In  1928  and  1929,  Mies  entered  four  competitions:  the  replanning  of 
Alexanderplatz,  and  the  Adam  Building  (Berlin,  1928),  a  bank  building 
(Stuttgart,  1928),  and  another  office  building  on  Friedrichstrasse  (Ber- 
lin, 1929  —  the  same  triangular  site  as  the  1922  competition). 
Mies  continued  to  organize  Werkbund  exhibitions  until  his  resignation 
in  1932.  At  the  Barcelona  International  Exhibition  in  1929,  Mies  de- 
signed and  built  the  A. E.G.  exhibition  hall  and  laid  out  all  the  exhibits. 
Lilly  Reich,  MIes's  colleague  and  frequent  collaborator,  had  designed 
l/l/er/(£»unc^  exhibits  at  the  Frankfurt  Fair  from  1924  to  1927.  In  1926  she 


Ludwlg  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Wolf  House, 
Guben.  1926.  Courtesy  of  Museum  of 
Modern  Art. 


Ludwlg  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Hermann 
Lange  House,  Krefeld.  1928.  Courtesy  of 
Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


Ludwlg  Mies  van  der  Rohe, 
Welssenhofsledlung,  Stuttgart.  1925. 
Aerial  view  of  model,  final  scheme. 
Courtesy  of  Fritz  Neumeyer. 


42 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER  IN  GERMANY 


moved  to  Berlin  where  she  administered  Mies's  practice  and  ran  her 
own  Interior  design  business  with  showrooms  just  down  the  street 
from  Mies's  office. 

Lilly  Reich  designed  Mies's  exhibit  at  the  Mode  der  Dame  Exhibition, 
Berlin,  1927  —  the  Velvet  and  Silk  Cafe.  This  displayed  Mies's  tubular 
steel  furniture  —  his  first  furniture  —  for  mass  production.  In  the 
Tugendhat  House  (Brno,  1928-1930),  the  most  stunningly  luxurious 
house  of  the  decade,  Lilly  Reich  designed  the  interior  decorations. 
During  their  collaboration  (1927-1939),  she  added  to  Mies's  work  a 
luxurious  richness  in  color  and  texture  which  remains  unsurpassed. 
Mies  van  der  Rohe's  German  National  Pavilion  at  Barcelona  became  a 
symbol  of  the  decade,  1919-1929.  Mies  returned  to  the  balanced, 
asymmetric  composition  of  free  standing  walls  and  flowing  space  of  the 
Brick  Country  House  project  of  1923,  but  the  theoretically  endless 
space  of  the  earlier  project  was  subtly  controlled. 
At  Barcelona,  Mies  synthesized  conflicting  themes.  The  space  was 
continuous  and  centrifugal,  but  it  was  no  longer  the  infinite  space  of  the 
brick  villa  project  —  the  positioning  of  certain  walls,  or  screens,  in 
relation  to  the  edge  of  the  podium  imposed  a  limit. 
Barcelona  and  Tugendhat  were  criticized  for  their  luxurious  elegance. 
In  1930,  Mies  warned  that  technical  progress  would  lead  to  a  loss  of 
meaning  in  architecture: 

Let  us  not  overestimate  the  question  of  mechanization,  standardization  and 

rationalization. 

And  let  us  accept  the  changed  economic  and  social  conditions  as  fact.  All  these 

things  go  their  destined  way,  blind  to  values. 


Ludwlg  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  German 
Pavilion,  Barcelona.  1929.  Plan.  Courtesy 
of  Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


The  decisive  thing  Is  which  of  these  given  facts  we  choose  to  emphasize.  This  Is 

where  spiritual  problems  begin.  The  Important  question  to  ask  Is  not  "what?"  but 

"how?" 

That  we  produce  goods  and  by  what  means  we  manufacture  them  means 

nothing  spiritually  speaking. 

Whether  we  build  high  or  low,  with  steel  and  glass,  tells  us  nothing  about  the 

value  of  building. 

Whether  In  town  planning  we  aim  at  centralization  or  decentralization  Is  a 

practical  question,  not  one  of  value. 

Yet  it  Is  the  question  of  value  that  is  decisive. 

We  have  to  establish  new  values,  to  demonstrate  ultimate  alms.  In  order  to 

acquire  standards  or  criteria. 

For  the  meaning  and  right  of  every  age.  Including  our  own,  consists  solely  in 

giving  the  spirit  the  opportunity  to  exist. '■* 

The  Barcelona  Pavilion,  along  with  Le  Corbusler's  Villa  Savoie  (Poissy, 
1929-31),  marked  the  culmination  and  the  close  of  the  heroic  period  of 
modern  architecture  in  Europe.  Barcelona  was  acclaimed  a  master- 
piece of  modern  architecture  and  an  outstanding  example  of  artistic 
achievement. 

In  the  summer  of  1 930  Mies  took  over  from  Hannes  Meyer  at  the  Dessau 
Bauhaus.  In  itsshort  history  the  Bauhaus  moved  twice:  from  Weimar  to 
Dessau  and  from  Dessau  to  Berlin. 
Groplus  set  out  the  first  Bauhaus  Program  in  1919: 

The  ultimate  aim  of  all  the  visual  arts  is  the  complete  building!  To  embellish 
buildings  was  once  the  noblest  function  of  the  fine  arts  . . .  .Today  the  arts  exist  in 
isolation,  from  which  they  can  be  rescued  only  through  the  conscious,  coopera- 
tive effort  of  all  craftsmen. 

Architects,  sculptors,  painters,  we  must  all  return  to  the  crafts!  For  art  is  not  a 
profession. 
There  is  no  essential  difference  between  the  artist  and  the  craftsman. 

Bauhaus  teaching  methods  were  linked  to  craft  training,  to  the  acquisi- 
tion of  craftsmanship,  and  as  a  teaching  discipline  it  implied  learning  by 
doing.  The  innovation  of  the  Bauhaus,  over  established  methods  of 
Kunstgewerbeschule  training,  lay  in  the  introduction  of  handicraft 
methods  to  fine  arts  instruction. 

The  other  great  Innovation  was  the  Vorkurs.  or  preliminary  course, 
which  set  out  to  cleanse  each  student's  mind  of  all  preconceptions.  The 
Bauhaus  Vorkurs  acquired  such  fame  that  it  came  to  be  regarded  as  the 
essence,  sometimes  the  entirety,  of  the  Bauhaus  Method. 
When  the  school  changed  direction  in  1923,  the  Bauhaus  Method  of 
instruction  was  easily  adapted  to  the  new  approach.  In  Idee  undAufbau 


43 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER   IN  GERMANY 


des  Staatlichen  Bauhauses  Weimar.'"'  Gropius  elaborated  on  the  educa- 
tional system: 

The  objective  of  all  creative  effort  in  the  visual  arts  is  to  give  form  to  space.  But 
what  Is  space  and  how  can  it  be  given  form? 

The  brain  conceives  of  mathematical  space  In  terms  of  numbers  and  dimen- 
sions. The  hand  masters  matter  through  the  crafts,  and  with  the  help  of  tools  and 
machinery.  Conception  and  visualization  are  always  simultaneous  .... 
True  creative  work  can  only  be  done  by  the  man  whose  knowledge  and  mastery 
of  statics,  dynamics,  optics  and  acoustics  equip  him  to  give  life  and  shape  to  his 
inner  vision.  In  a  work  of  art  the  lawsof  the  physical  world,  the  Intellectual  world 
and  the  world  of  the  spirit  function  and  are  expressed  simultaneously  .... 
The  guiding  principle  of  the  Bauhaus  was  therefore  the  Idea  of  creating  a  new 
unity  through  the  welding  together  of  many  arts  and  technology:  a  unity  having 
its  basis  in  Man  himself  and  significant  only  as  a  living  organism. 
The  human  achievement  depends  on  the  proper  coordination  of  all  the  creative 
faculties,  it  Isnot  enough  to  school  oneoranotherof  them  separately:  they  must 
all  be  thoroughly  trained  at  the  same  time. 

The  course  was  divided  into  two  halves:  Werklehre  and  Formlehre.  The 
split  was  surprising,  coming  straight  after  the  preamble  which  insisted 
on  unity.  However,  in  the  interests  of  the  new  unity,  Gropius  brought  the 
two  disciplines  closer  by  appointing  studio  masters  equally  proficient  at 
both  Werklehre  and  Formlehre.  In  practice  this  proved  difficult. 
Gropius  then  listed  the  various  Bauhaus  departments,  but  neither 
building  nor  architecture  was  given  a  department.  Under  the  section 
Instruction  in  Architecture,  he  asserted: 

Only  the  journeyman  who  has  been  seasoned  by  workshop  practice  and  in- 
struction In  the  study  of  form  is  ready  to  collaborate  in  building. 
The  last  and  most  important  stage  of  the  Bauhaus  education  Is  the  course  in 
architecture,  with  practical  experience  in  the  Research  Department  as  well  as  on 
actual  buildings  under  construction. 

In  so  far  as  the  Bauhaus  curriculum  does  not  provide  advanced  courses  in 
engineering  —  construction  in  steel  and  reinforced  concrete,  statics,  mechanics, 
physics,  industrial  methods,  heating,  plumbing,  technical  chemistry  —  it  is  con- 
sidered desirable  for  promising  architecture  students  ...  to  complete  their  edu- 
cation with  courses  at  technical  and  engineering  schools. 

Up  until  1927,  when  a  Bauhaus  Department  of  Building  was  formed  by 
Hannes  Meyer,  students  of  architecture  gained  experience  only  in 
Gropius's  private  practice. 

Students  had  campaigned  for  an  architecture  department  since  1923, 
when  it  became  clear  that  no  commissions  would  be  forthcoming  from 
the  City  of  Weimar  nor  from  its  citizens.  Since  Its  beginning  the  Bauhaus 


Educational  Process  at  the  Bauhaus, 
diagram.  c.l9l9. 


THE  CURRICULUM 

The  course  of  instruction  at  the  Bauhaus  is  divided  Into: 


1.       Instruction  in  crafts  (Werklehre): 

STONE  V^OOD  METAL  CLAY 

Sculpture         Carpentry       Metol  Pottery 

workshop        workshop         workshop  workshop 


GLASS  COLOR  TEXTILES 

Stained  glass     Wall-painting     Weaving 
workshop  workshop  workshop 


A.  Instruction  In  materials  and  tools 

B.  Elements  of  book-keeping,  estimating,  contracting 


II.      Instruction  in  form  problems  (Formlehre): 


1.      Observation 

A.  Study  of  nature 

B.  Analysis  of  materials 


2.      Representation 

A,  Descriptive  geometry 

B,  Technique  of  construction 

C,  Drawing  of  plans  and  build- 
ing of  models  for  all  kinds 
of  constructions 


3.  Composition 

A.  Theory  of  space 

B.  Theory  of  color 

C.  Theoryofdesign 


A  Curriculum  of  the  Bauhaus.  c.1919. 


44 


ARCHITECT   AND  TEACHER  IN  GERMANY 


had  been  unpopular  in  conservative  Weimar;  Gropius  was  accused  of 
sheltering  left-wing  political  activists.  In  1922  Oscar  Schlemmer's 
manifesto  for  the  first  Bauhaus  exhibition  referred  to  the  Bauhaus  as  a 
"cathedral  of  socialism."  From  then  on,  both  the  architectural  style 
developing  in  the  school  and  the  ideas  of  its  faculty  and  students  were 
attacked  as  leftist  and  communist.  In  1925  the  right-wing  provincial 
government  expelled  the  Bauhaus  from  Weimar. 
When  Meyer  joined  the  Bauhaus  in  Dessau  he  criticized  the  education  it 
offered.  On  taking  over  from  Gropius  (Mies  refused  the  appointment), 
he  found  himself  in  a  tragi-comic  situation  where,  as  head  of  the 
Bauhaus,  he  fought  against  Bauhaus  style.  Meyer  attempted  to  put  the 
architectural  course  on  solid  scientific  foundations,  and  introduced 
fundamental  changes  into  the  curriculum.  He  invited  Ludwig  Hilber- 
selmer  to  form  a  department  of  town  planning  and  engaged  Mart  Stam 
to  teach  architecture.  Alcar  Rudelt  and  Friedrich  Engemann  were 
brought  into  teach  structural  engineering,  and  Walter  Peterhans  taught 
photography.  Moholy-Nagy  resigned,  and  Josef  Albers  took  over  the 
Vorkurs  as  well  as  teaching  interior  design. 

Meyer's  program  for  the  Bauhaus  aimed  essentially  at  closer  contact 
between  the  course  of  instruction  and  the  needs  and  reality  of  life 
outside: 

Building  is  a  biological  process.  Building  Is  not  an  aesthetic  process.  In  its  design 
the  new  dwelling  becomes  not  only  a  "machine  for  living,"  but  also  a  biological 
apparatus  serving  the  needs  of  the  mind  and  body. 

He  then  gave  a  long  list  of  "new  age"  synthetic  materials  and  continued. 

We  organize  these  materials  Into  a  constructive  whole  based  on  economic 
principles.  Thus  the  individual  shape,  the  body  of  the  structure,  the  color  of  the 
material  and  the  surface  texture  evolve  by  themselves  and  are  determined  by 
life. 

And  he  ended, 

Building  is  nothing  but  organization;  social,  technical,  economic,  psychological 
organization. 

Meyer's  rejection  of  aesthetics,  like  Mies's,  had  qualifications:  he  is  said 
to  have  been  caught,  on  occasion,  weighing  the  proportions  of  a  build- 
ing. In  Befon  als  Gestalter  published  in  1928,  Hilberseimer  stated: 

The  rapid  perfection  of  scientific  methods  of  research  and  technical  aids . . . 
caused,  for  a  whole  epoch  an  overestlmatlon  of  the  possibilities  of  technol- 


ogy ....  Technique  Is  never  more  than  a  means  for  the  art  of  building 

Technique  and  art  are  profoundly  different. 

He  Clearly  separated  the  physical  from  the  spiritual  sciences. 
After  three  hectic  years  Meyer  was  dismissed  from  the  Bauhaus  fol- 
lowing pressure  from  the  City  Council  of  Dessau.  Again  Gropius  invited 
Mies  to  head  the  Bauhaus,  and  this  time  he  accepted. 
Mies  van  der  Rohe  altered  the  character  of  the  Bauhaus,  and  spiritually 
the  real  Bauhaus  ended  with  Meyer's  dismissal.  The  political  and  social 
activities  characteristic  of  that  illustrious  era  were  virtually  eliminated 
and,  under  Mies,  the  Bauhaus  became  a  school  of  architecture.  On  his 
appointment  there  was  protest  from  students  who  declaimed  Mies  as  a 
builder  of  mansions.  He  closed  the  school  and  expelled  the  ringleaders 
of  the  revolt.  He  also  closed  the  Prellerhaus  to  student  residents,  and 
they  had  to  find  lodgings  elsewhere  in  Dessau. 

There  were  faculty  changes  too,  notably  the  appointment  of  Lilly  Reich 
as  lecturer.  In  January  1932  she  succeeded  Alfred  Arndt  in  the  interior 
design  department.  Hilberseimer  taught  architecture  and  town  plan- 
ning. Rudelt  and  Engemann  continued  to  teach  structural  engineering. 
Mies  retained  Josef  Albers  (preliminary  course,  representational 
drawing),  Wassily  Kandinsky  (introduction  to  artistic  design),  HinnerK 
Scheper  (wall  painting),  Joost  Schmidt  (woodworking),  Walter 
Peterhans  (photography)  and  Lyonel  Feininger  (master  without  formal 
appointment).  Thus  there  was  a  large  measure  of  continuity  in  teaching 
methods. 

Mies's  heavy-handed  manner  in  dealing  with  unrest  caused  resentment 
among  the  students.  Discontent  led  to  infighting  and  occasionally 
strikes.  His  leadership  was  criticized,  but  he  succeeded  in  quieting  local 
ition  to  the  school  in  Dessau  and  gained  the  support  of  the  Mayor. 
Gropius  had  placed  the  Bauhaus  in  safe  hands. 

The  Bauhaus  gave  him  his  first  opportunity  to  teach.  He  took  charge  of 
final  year  architecture  students  and  held  seminars  three  days  a  week, 
mornings  and  afternoons.  No  papers  were  written,  no  examinations 
given.  Students  were  assessed  on  architectural  work  alone. 
Mies  started  his  students  designing  houses.  The  first  problem  he  set 
was  a  single-bedroom  court-house.  He  said  that  if  an  architect  could 
design  a  house  well  he  could  do  almost  anything.  Students  produced 
sketch  after  sketch  —  Mies  recommended  at  least  a  hundred  -  then 
Mies  would  examine  them  at  length  and  remark,  more  often  than  not, 
"Versuchen  Sie  es  wieder"  (try  it  again).  When  the  scheme  was  finally 


45 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER   IN  GERMANY 


approved  it  would  be  drawn.  To  reach  this  stage  wouid  tal<e  weeks,  or 

even  months. 

One  of  iviies's  students,  Selman  Seimanagic,  drew  a  delightful  comment 

on  his  project:  "Selman,"  said  Mies,  "We  shall  have  to  start  ail  over 

again."  The  student  was  surprised  and  started  explaining  eagerly  how 

well  the  plan  functioned.  "Come  now,  Selman,  if  you  meet  twin  sisters 

who  are  equally  healthy,  intelligent  and  wealthy,  and  both  can  bear 

children,  but  one  is  ugly,  the  other  beautiful  —  which  one  would  you 

marry?"'* 

Howard  Dearstyne,  an  American  student  at  the  Bauhaus,  wrote  home 

at  the  end  of  1931: 

We  are  learning  a  tremendous  lot  from  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  If  he  doesn't  make 
good  architects  of  us  he'll  at  least  teach  us  to  judge  what  good  architecture  Is. 
One  of  the  uncomfortable  (perhaps)  sides  of  associating  with  an  architect  of  the 
first  rank  Is  that  he  ruins  your  taste  for  about  all  but  one-half  of  one  percent  of  all 
the  architecture  that's  being  done  the  world  over.  Mies  van  der  Rohe  not  only 
comes  down  hard  on  the  American  architects  (for  which  he  has,  without  the 
shadow  of  a  doubt,  the  most  perfect  justification),  but  holds  that  one  doesn't  need 
the  fingers  of  one  hand  to  count  the  German  architects  who  are  doing  good 
work." 

Ludwig  Hilberseimer  was  the  second  architecture  master,  and  he  and 
Mies  shared  a  Master  House  at  the  Bauhaus.  They  retained  their  ar- 
chitectural practices  in  Berlin  and  came  to  an  arrangement  whereby 
they  commuted  from  Berlin  alternately:  Mies  spending  half  the  week  in 
Dessau,  and  Hilberseimer  the  other  half.  Unlike  Mies,  Hilberseimer 
seemed  a  true  Bauhausler  and  his  seminars,  conducted  in  characteris- 
tic Bauhaus  fashion,  were  more  relaxed  than  Mies's.  Pius  Pahl,  who 
studied  under  both  masters,  gave  his  impression: 

I  enter  the  room  in  which  the  lectures  are  given  and  sit  down  a  little  way  from  the 
others.  They  come  In  one  by  one  and  find  places  on  tables,  benches,  stools  and 
window-seats.  They  debate.  I  am  waiting  for  Hllbs,  but  In  vain.  After  some  time 
one  of  the  older  students  is  addressed  as  Hllbs.  What  a  surprise  for  a  former 
student  of  the  Hoheres  Staatliches  TechnlkumI" 

For  just  over  a  year  after  Mies's  take  over  relative  calm  reigned  at  the 
Bauhaus  in  Dessau.  The  political  situation  changed  suddenly  at  the 
beginning  of  1932  when  the  National  Socialists  gained  a  majority  In  the 
City  Council  of  Dessau.  The  National  Socialist  candidates  promised  In 
their  campaign  to  dissolve  the  Bauhaus  and  demolish  its  frame  build- 
ings. In  October  1932,  some  staff,  students  and  equipment  moved  to 
Berlin  and  the  Bauhaus  was  for  the  third  and  last  time  in  a  new  home.  In 


less  than  six  months  the  Bauhaus  died  of  attrition.  Its  financial  support 
from  Dessau  ended,  and  on  11  April  1933,  the  Gestapo  arrested  some  of 
the  students,  searched  the  building,  sealed  it  and  placed  it  under  guard. 
As  a  school,  the  Bauhaus  effectively  ended,  but  as  an  institution  the 
efforts  of  Mies  and  others  continued,  and  it  was  not  until  20  July  1933, 
that  the  faculty,  consisting  of  Mies,  Albers,  Hilberseimer,  Kandinsky, 
Peterhans,  Reich  and  Walther  unanimously  voted  to  close  the  Bauhaus 
because  of  insufficient  funds. 

The  three  livesof  the  Bauhaus,  Weimar,  Dessau,  Berlin,  parallel  the  rise 
and  fall  of  the  Weimar  Republic.  It  was  a  time  of  revolution,  foreign 
occLipation,  political  murder,  fantastic  inflation,  seemingly  endless  ex- 
perimentation in  the  arts,  poverty  and  great  wealth,  vast  unemploy- 
ment, new  architecture,  manifestoes  and  general  political  violence 
culminating  in  government  by  decree.  Culture  became  less  the  critic 
more  the  mirror  of  events.  The  newspaper  and  film  industries  ground 
out  left-  and  right-wing  propaganda,  and  the  country  was  inundated  by 
kitsch,  much  of  It  politically  inspired. 

Following  Adolph  Hitler's  accession  to  power  in  the  spring  of  1933,  his 
government  began  an  attack  on  architects,  depriving  some  of  commis- 
sions and  pressuring  others  from  positions  of  leadership  in  professional 
organizations.  The  Werkbund  was  purged  and  a  new  council  selected. 
A  frequent  visitor  to  Berlin  in  the  1930's,  Philip  Johnson  analyzed  the 
three  factions  involved  in  the  struggle  for  control  of  the  new  Kultur- 
politik.  He  said  Mies  was  respected  by  conservatives  like  Paul  Schmit- 
thenner  and  that  the  Kampfbund  fur  Deutsche  Kultur  (an  organization 
set  up  in  1928  by  Alfred  Rosenburg)  had  nothing  against  him. 
Johnson  knew  Mies  had  been  awarded  a  prize  (along  with  five  others) 
for  his  entry  in  the  Reichsbank  Competition  of  February  1933.  Mies's 
design  was  the  only  modern  entry  to  win  a  prize  —  was  monumental, 
stark  and  heavy,  with  rigidly  ordered  interiors.  Johnson  speculated  that 
if  (and  it  may  be  a  long  if)  Mies  should  build  this  building  it  would  clinch 
his  position  as  the  new  Party  architect.'® 

Joseph  Goebbels,  yet  to  declare  his  policy,  was  first  unsympathetic  to 
the  opponents  of  modern  art  and  architecture.  He  wished  the  new  State 
to  appear  creative  rather  than  restrictive.  He  attacked  Rosenburg's 
Kampfbund  and,  in  April  1933,  promised  artists  freedom  to  create  art 
suitable  for  the  new  regime.  In  November  1933  Goebbels  set  up  the 
Reictiskulturkammer,  which  became  the  only  legal  representative  for 
creative  professionals.  It  assumed  control  over  the  arts,  and  Goebbels 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Reiclisbank 
Project,  Berlin.  1933.  Drawing.  Courtesy 
of  Hedrich  Blessing. 


46 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER  IN  GERMANY 


•>^4?S^, 


■^ 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  Courthouse. 
C.1934.  SKetch.  Courtesy  of  Museum  of 
Modern  Art. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Admin- 
istration Building  for  the  Silk  Industry, 
Krefeld.  1937.  Drawing.  Main  Hall. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  House  with 
Three  Courts  Project.  1934.  Plan. 
Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


appointed  the  president  of  each  chamber.  By  1934  some  artists  who 
had  portrayed  the  more  exuberant  spirit  of  the  1920's  were  listed  as 
"degenerate"  and  their  worK  was  suppressed  and  banned  from  publi- 
cation. 

Gropius  and  Wagner  hoped  for  support  from  Goebbels  as  late  as  June 
1934.  Haring  defended  the  Ring  as  a  professional  organization  of  Prus- 
sian origin,  rooted  In  the  prewar  lVer/(t)und.  Their  efforts  were  fruitless; 
disillusion  replaced  hope  and  Gropius,  who  inspired  and  initiated  ap- 
peals to  the  Relchskulturkammer  began  preparations  to  leave  Ger- 
many. Mies,  possibly  the  least  political  of  the  radical  architects,  seems  to 
have  kept  a  low  profile  after  his  negotiations  with  Rosenburg  over  the 
fate  of  the  Berlin  Bauhaus. 

Mies,  like  Gropius,  received  commissions  from  the  new  government. 
For  the  propagandistic  Deutsches  Volk/Deutsche  Arbeit  exhibition  of 
1934,  Mies  designed  the  Glass  and  Mining  exhibits,  In  which  he  dis- 
played some  of  his  tubular  steel  furniture.  Gropius  also  designed  an 
exhibit,  while  Cesar  Klein  designed  the  Nazi  eagle  tapestry,  and  Herbert 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Hubbe  House, 
Magdeburg.  1935.  Model.  Courtesy  of  the 
Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


Bayer  designed  the  catalogue.  None  of  their  names  appeared,  since 
they  were  elsewhere  listed  as  degenerate  artists. 
In  1934  Mies  entered  the  competition  to  design  the  national  pavilion  for 
the  International  Exhibition  in  Brussels.  Later,  Mies  told  his  grandson. 
Dirk  Lohan,  that  he  heard  that  Hitler  was  so  disgusted  with  his  design 
that  he  threw  It  on  the  floor  and  stomped  on  it.  In  the  years  before  his 
departure  to  America,  Mies  spent  muchof  his  time  In  the  Tyrol,  In  Upper 
Bozen,  but  he  stayed  in  contact  with  his  Berlin  office  and  Lilly  Reich. 
Mies's  income  after  the  closure  of  the  Bauhaus  came  mostly  from  his 
furniture  patents  and,  through  Lilly  Reich,  from  some  small  interior 
design  commissions  in  Berlin.  He  continued  to  teach  in  his  Berlin 
studio,  and  in  August  1933  he  took  four  students  to  Lugano  for  three 
months's  tuition.  Lilly  Reich  joined  him  there  as  did  two  American 
students,  the  former  Bauhausler  Howard  Dearstyneand  John  Rodgers. 
Until  1937  Mies  employed  two  ex-Bauhaus  students  Eduard  Ludwig 
and  Herbert  Hirche  part-time.  Ludwig  executed  the  drawings  for  the 
Relchsbank  Competition  and  the  projected  Administration  Building  for 
the  Silk  Industry  In  Krefeld  —  a  building  on  a  splayed  plan  similartothe 
Relchsbank.  Mies  was  in  America  when  this  project  was  presented  in 
Krefeld  in  1937. 

In  the  1930's  Mies  studied  the  pavilion  and  the  court  —  the  theme  of 
Barcelona.  He  repeated  it  in  his  Model  House  at  the  Berlin  Building 
Exposition  of  1931  —  his  last  exhibition  for  the  Werkbund.  In  the  Model 
House,  the  flowing  space  still  reached  outward,  channeled  by  screens, 
two  of  which  slide  out  beyond  the  podium. 

From  1931  to  1938,  Mies  developed  a  series  of  court-house  projects  In 
which  the  space,  though  still  allowed  to  flow,  was  limited  by  the  external 
walls  of  the  house  and  court  conjoined.  Walls,  glass  and  columns  were 
used  as  progressively  more  subtle  and  more  economic  means  of  con- 
trolling space.  Mies  Introduced  the  court-house  theme  to  his  students; 
it  was  a  major  topic  at  the  Bauhaus  and  later  at  the  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology,  where  he  produced  montages  of  the  schemes  he  had 
designed  in  Germany. 

The  sketches  and  montages  enabled  Mies  to  transcend  material  con- 
straints and  express  his  guiding  intention  more  clearly.  External  views 
were  selected  and  controlled  by  openings  in  the  walls.  Finally  these 
openings  were  virtually  eliminated.  The  houses  became  completely 
introspective,  and  their  isolation  may  suggest  Mies's  need  to  shield 
himself  from  the  reality  of  life  in  Germany. 


47 


ARCHITECT  AND  TEACHER   IN  GERMANY 


The  interiors  were  marked  by  their  vacancy,  occasionally  filled  by  a 
sculpture,  a  painting,  or  a  view,  set  against  the  unrelenting  ascetic 
purity  of  walls  and  screens.  The  enclosed  space  contained  the  ideal  of  a 
monastic  life,  a  private  world  where,  surrounded  by  order  and  clarity, 
men  could  meditate  on  eternal  truth  and  contemplate  beautiful  objects. 
In  August  1937,  four  years  after  he  closed  the  Bauhaus  and  completed 
his  last  work  in  Germany,  Mies  was  invited  to  America  by  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Stanley  Resor  to  design  a  dwelling  in  Wyoming.  Mies  was  again  invited 
to  direct  the  architecture  school  of  the  Armour  Institute  of  Technology, 
and  this  time  he  accepted.  He  visited  Chicago  then  went  back  to  New 
York  to  work  on  the  Resor  house  and  the  Armour  curriculum  in  the 
office  of  John  Rodgers  and  William  Priestley.  With  their  help,  and  that  of 
Howard  Dearstyne,  Mies  drew  up  a  program  of  architectural  education 
based  on  his  experience  at  the  Bauhaus. 

During  the  years  of  relative  inactivity  in  Berlin  Mies  continued  reading, 
including  St.  Augustine,  St.  Thomas  Aquinas,  and  Spinoza.  Later  in  the 
United  States  he  quoted  frequently  from  these  writers,  and  they  seemed 
to  give  him  the  inner  strength  he  needed  to  live  and  work  in  a  foreign 
land.  He  admired  the  writing  of  Romano  Guardini,  a  contemporary 
philosopher  whose  book.  Das  Ende  der  Neuzeit:  Ein  Versuch  zur 
Orientlerung.^°  he  recommended  to  his  students. 

During  his  last  years  in  Germany  Mies  had  time  to  think  and  develop  his 
architectural  philosophy  of  order  and  clarity  which  was  reflected  in  the 
simplicity  of  the  court-house  projects.  The  architect  he  admired  most 
was  Rudolf  Schwarz,  a  Roman  Catholic  whose  book,  The  Church  In- 
carnate: The  Sacred  Function  of  Christian  Architecture,  was  translated 
into  English  and  published  in  1958  with  Mies's  help.  In  the  Foreword, 
Mies  wrote: 

This  book  was  written  in  Germany's  darkest  hour,  but  it  throws  light  for  the  first 
time  on  the  question  of  church  building,  and  illuminates  the  whole  question  of 
architecture  itself. 

Rudolf  Schwarz,  the  great  German  church  builder,  is  one  of  the  most  profound 
thinkers  of  our  time.  His  book,  in  spite  of  its  clarity,  is  not  easy  reading  —  but  he 
who  will  take  the  trouble  to  study  it  carefully  will  gain  real  insight  into  the 
problems  discussed.  I  have  read  it  over  and  over  again,  and  I  know  its  power  of 
clarification.  I  believe  it  should  be  read  not  only  by  those  concerned  with  church 
building  but  by  anyone  sincerely  interested  in  architecture.  Yet  it  is  not  only  a 
great  book  on  architecture,  indeed  it  Is  one  of  the  truly  great  books  —  one  of 
those  which  have  the  power  to  transform  our  thinking.^' 


A  difficulty  with  Mies  Is  that  what  he  said  often  seems  to  be  at  odds  with 
what  he  did.  But  this  is  because  he  is  easily  taken  too  literally  —  both  his 
words  and  his  work.  He  set  out  to  teach  architecture  as  poetry.  First  the 
building  had  to  be  based  on  the  clarity  of  its  structural  elements.  To  Mies 
this  did  not  mean  that  the  building  had  to  express  its  structure  in  the 
literal  sense  of  the  functionalist  school. 

Mies's  architecture  was  rooted  in  tradition,  and  developed  in  the  Berlin 
of  the  1920's.  He  saw  clearly  the  nature  of  the  era  he  lived  in,  and  his 
work  confirmed,  interpreted  and  commented  on  someof  the  viable  and 
meaningful  thoughtsof  that  era.  He  had  the  strength  of  his  convictions, 
and  the  leadership  to  put  them  over. 

Everyone  looked  at  Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe  hoping  he  would  tell 
them  what  to  do  —  but  he  could  only  show  them  how  to  do  it. 

NOTES 

1  Excerpts  from  Mies  van  der  Rohe's  Inaugural  Address  to  the  Armour  Institute  of 
Technology,  Chicago.  1938  (complete  text  in  Philip  Johnson,  Mies  \/an  der  Rohe.  1978. 
pp    196-200) 

2  Ibid. 

3  Ibid. 

4  "Uber  Kunstkritik,"  Das  Kunstblatt.  14,  1930,  p.  178.  translation  in  Johnson,  p,  196. 

5  Peter  Carter.  "Mies  van  der  Rohe, "  Architectural  Deslgh.  March  1961,  p  97. 

6  "Mies  Speaks,"  Architectural  Review.  December  1968.  p   451 

7  Carter.  AD. 

8  "Hochhausprojekt  fur  Bahnhof  Friedrichstrasse  in  Berlin,"  Fruhllcht.  No.  1,  1922.  pp. 
122-124,  translated  in  Johnson,  p.  187. 

9  "Baukunst  und  Zeitwille,"  Der  Ouerschnitt.  No.  4,  1924,  pp.  31-32. 
10  "Burohaus,"  G,  No.  1,  1923,  p.  32. 

1  1  Peter  Carter,  Mies  at  Work.  1974.  p.  18. 

12  "Industrielles  Bauen, "  G,  No.  3,  1924,  pp.  8-1 1.  (Mies  illustrated  his  article  with  a  station 
building  by  Breest  Sc  Co.,  Berlin,  and  a  factory  building  by  Behrens,  in  collaboration  with 
the  same  firm.) 

13  "Rundschau:  Zum  Neuen  Jahrgang.  '  Die  Form.  Vol.  2.  No  1.  1927,  p.  1. 

14  "Die  NeueZeit:  Schlusswortedes  Referats  Mies  van  der  Roheauf  der  Wiener  Tagungdes 
Deutschen  Werkbundes,"  Die  Form.  Vol.  5,  No.  15,  1930,  p.  406,  (slightly  different 
translation  in  Johnson,  p.  195). 

15  J.  Walter  Gropius,  Idee  und  Aufbau  des  Staatllchen  Bauhauses  Weimar,  Munich  & 
Weimar:  Bauhaus  Verlag,  1923,  p.  12;  reprinted  in  Staatllches  Bauhaus  Weimar  1919- 
1923.  Munich  &  Weimar:  Bauhaus  Verlag,  1923,  p   226. 

16  Pius  Pahl,  "Experiences  of  an  Architectural  Student."  Bauhaus  and  Bauhaus  People.  Ed 
Eckhard  Neumann,  1970,  p.  229. 

1 7  Howard  Dearstyne,  "Mies  van  der  Rohe's  Teaching  at  the  Bauhaus  in  Dessau. '  Bauhaus 
and  Bauhaus  People.  Ed.  Eckhard  Neumann,  p  213. 

18  Pahl,  p.  228. 

19  Philip  Johnson,  "Architecture  and  the  Third  Reich,"  Hound  and  Horn.  VII.  Oct  -Dec. 
1933,  pp.  137-139.  (reprinted  in  Philip  Johnson,  Writings.  1979,  p.  53.) 

20  Romano  Guardini,  Das  Ende  der  Neuzeit:  EIn  Versuch  zur  Orlentlerung.  Basel,  1950. 

21  Rudolf  Schwarz  (Cynthia  Harris,  translator).  The  Church  Incarnate:  The  Sacred  Function 
of  Christian  Architecture.  Chicago.  1958. 


48 


ORDER,    SPACE,     PROPORTION-MIES'S     CURRICULUM      AT     NT 

Kevin  Harrington 


When  Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe  (1886-1969)  arrived  in  Chicago  in 
1938  to  begin  his  career  as  the  director  of  the  architecture  program  at 
Armour  (later  Illinois)  Institute  of  Technology,  his  experience  in  educa- 
tion was  both  extensive  and  brief.  As  with  his  architecture  up  to  that 
time,  his  educational  experience  showed  very  great  promise  and  rela- 
tively little  actual  achievement. 

Nonetheless,  when  he  took  up  his  duties  in  Chicago,  he  had  already 
been  the  first  choice  to  be  head  of  architecture  at  Harvard  University, 
and  his  importance  was  eloquently  acknowledged  by  Paul  Cret  of  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  and  inelegantly  confirmed  by  Frank  Lloyd 
Wright. 

Mies  proclaimed  his  importance  and  ideals  to  Americans  initially  in  two 
key  statements:  the  speech  he  gave  at  a  welcoming  dinner  in  October 
1938,  and  in  the  curriculum  he  had  earlier  developed  and  begun  imple- 
menting that  same  fall  at  Armour.  The  speech,  which  Mies  saw  as  an 
occasion  similar  to  the  address  given  in  many  universities  when  a  new 
professor  takes  his  chair,  was  stirring  and  quickly  and  widely  reprinted. 
The  curriculum  was  revolutionary.  It  established  a  method  of  work, 
analysis,  and  design  which  sought  to  imbue  brick,  glass,  steel  and  space 
with  a  coherent  and  rational  expression.  Juxtaposing  an  architecture  of 
space  and  frame,  Mies  wanted  to  create  a  curriculum  which  would 
always  yield  excellent  craftsmen  and  occasionally  produce  or  encour- 
age those  with  the  gifts  to  make  the  expression  of  technique  an  act  of 
high  art. 

Reflecting  his  interest  in  crystal  structure,  Mies  was  after  a  curriculum 
which  would  encourage  students  to  seek  and  find  that  moment  when 
the  crystalline  essence  of  a  problem  or  idea  was  revealed.  Thus  stu- 


dents began  by  drawing  lines,  to  learn  their  weight,  shape,  space  and 
nature;  then  they  began  studying  intersections  of  lines,  learning  the 
complex  set  of  interrelationships  among  the  parts;  then  they  began 
studying  materials  in  order  to  search  out  the  moment  when  two  bricks 
might  become  architecture;  then  the  intersecting  lines  of  two  dimen- 
sions would  be  extended  to  three  dimensions  in  an  effort  to  understand 
space,  the  most  important  and  difficult  element  of  the  entire  esthetic. 
Only  then,  when  a  student  had  mastered  the  elements  of  architecture, 
from  the  particularity  of  a  single  well  drawn  line  to  the  ineffable  de- 
velopment of  the  perfect  space,  would  a  student  attempt  to  solve  the 
problem  of  an  actual  building. 

This  idea  —  to  create  a  line,  a  plane,  a  space,  a  building  so  complete  that 
nothing  could  be  added  or  subtracted  —  marks  Mies's  adherence  to  one 
of  thecentral  ideasof  what  iscalledtheclassicaltradition.  Vitruviusand 
Alberti  defined  beauty  in  such  terms  and  their  presence  in  Mies's 
thought  demonstrates  the  broad  circle  of  tradition  upon  which  he  drew. 
While  Mies  expected  his  undergraduates  to  be  able  to  leave  school 
knowing  how  to  speak  the  language  of  modern  architecture,  in  the 
graduate  program  he  hoped  to  attract  and  teach  those  whose  gifts 
might  allow  them  occasionally  to  make  poetry  of  that  language. 
The  hiring  of  Mies  by  Armour  Institute  in  1937  followed  a  two  year 
courtship  which  was  interrupted  by  the  attraction  of  Harvard.  Several 
elements  combined  to  bring  Armour  to  make  itself  an  acceptable  posi- 
tion for  the  world  renowned  architect. 

Armour's  architecture  program  had  been  without  effective  leadership 
for  sometime.  Earl  H.  Reed  directed  a  program  organized  around  the 
competitions  of  the  Beaux-Arts  Institute  of  Design  in  New  York.  Also 


49 


MIESS      CURRICULUM      AT      IIT 


offered  were  a  number  of  courses  that  took  Chicago's  distinctive  char- 
acter for  its  subject,  including  steel  structure,  the  tall  building,  and  the 
local  building  code.  Competent  to  instruct  and  criticize  the  students, 
and  handle  the  day  to  day  management  of  the  program.  Reed  could  not 
lead.  From  the  late  1920"s  when  asked  to  reshape  the  curriculum.  Reed 
acknowledged  the  usefulness  of  such  an  action,  yet  proved  unable  to 
develop  any  sure  analysis  and  program  for  the  future. 
During  this  time,  members  of  the  administration  discovered  two  things 
as  the  depression  continued.  First  enrollment  was  actually  rising,  and 
second,  they  had  a  larger  enrollment  than  any  other  urban  engineering 
school.  Of  special  interest  were  the  comparable  enrollment  figures  for 
the  Massachusetts  and  California  Institutes  of  Technology,  which  were 
lower  than  those  at  Armour.  Within  the  Armour  administration  were  a 
number  of  relatively  young  and  ambitious  men  who  sought  to  create  in 
Chicago  a  technological  center  the  equal  of  the  two  more  prestigious 
Institutions  on  the  east  and  west  coasts. 

Armour  had  already  spent  some  years  exploring  transforming  itself.  In 
the  1920's.  Armour  reached  an  agreement  with  Northwestern  Univer- 
sity to  become  its  engineering  school  and  move  into  its  new  Lake  Shore 
Drive  campus.  When  Armour  could  not  secure  its  share  of  the  funding, 
the  administration  decided  to  rely  no  longer  on  the  gifts  of  a  few  private 
donors  and  instead  sought  funding  from  industrialists  through  their 
corporations.  This  decision  rested  in  the  belief  that  the  Institute  and 
Industry  could  work  cooperatively  to  their  mutual  benefit,  and  that  the 
research  and  development  the  Institute  offered  would  have  rapid  and 
profitable  impact  on  the  industries  and  their  competitiveness. 
Although  the  corollary  of  this  decision  for  architecture  would  be  to 
focus  the  school  on  the  Chicago  region,  and  although  in  its  earliest  days 
the  school  officially  had  been  called  the  Chicago  School  of  Architecture, 
there  was  not  any  parallel  discussion  of  Chicago's  special  architectural 
character.  Students  described  the  enervation  of  the  architecture  school 
as  weak  leadership  and  desultory  teaching. 

In  July  1935,  Burton  Buchhauser  reported  to  Dean  Henry  Heald  the 
conversations  of  four  students. 

. . .  every  man  of  worth,  every  genius,  and  intellectual  giant  had  a  great  person 
for  his  guiding  light,  his  teacher  or  close  friend.  Frank  Lloyd  Wright  had  Louis 
Sullivan.  Sullivan  had  H.  H.  Richardson,  and  A.I.T.  Arx  graduates  have  heavy 
hearts. . .  .  Instructors  at  A.I.T.  have  laughed  at  me  for  suggesting  F.  L.  W.'sname 
and  principles  as  my  Inspiration. 


1  am  starting  at  the  top  and  working  my  way  down  through  the  group,  and  all 
those  I  criticize  1  have  had  personal  contact,  and  felt  the  shallow  influence  of. 
The  head  of  the  department  is  the  perfect  example  of  what  we  can  do  without. 
...  He  frequents  the  drafting  rooms  ...  as  a  floor  walker  overlooking  the  mer- 
chandise. 

...  He  is  a  diplomat  to  the  nth  degree,  accomplishing  absolutely  nothing  for 
anyone,  reaping  his  yearly  harvest,  and  at  the  same  time  performing  a  peculiar 
hiding  act ....  He,  Is  nothing  buttheold  charlatan  creeping  Into  a  field  too  honest 
to  approve  his  dealings. 

I  have  received  a  statement  made  by  him  that  no  power  could  move  him  from  his 
position  if  he  saw  fit  to  remain  —  his  drag  with  the  trustees  Is  to  hold  him  secure. 
How  do  I  know  so  many  peculiar  details?  1  worked  for  one  year  in  his  office  as 
student  assistant  and  know  the  dally  rape  he  has  made  on  the  school  and  its  trust 
in  him. 

The  junior  crlt  lacks  the  same  qualities  that  the  senior  crlt  forgot  to  acquire.  Lack 
of  Interest  for  a  young  man's  problems;  lack  of  time  spent  in  the  class  rooms; 
criticisms  which  are  of  little  use  becauseof  the  short  time  spent  with  each  man;  a 
mind  on  outside  pleasures;  a  wild  glare  in  his  eye  which  tells  of  distant  thought; 
and  last  but  not  least  a  personality  too  distant  to  be  reached  by  the  trying 
student. 

To  close,  I  shall  say  It  possible  to  create  the  things  I  demand  and  expect  for  the 
future  Arx,  as  they  all  existed  under  the  leadership  of  Professor  Campbell,  a 
former  dean  at  A.I.T.' 

Heald's  sympathy  towards  the  students  developed  from  his  own  ex- 
perience and  teaching.  He  had  taught  concrete  construction  both  to 
engineers  and  architects,  and  he  described  how  much  he  enjoyed 
teaching  the  architects. 

In  September  1935,  Heald  prepared  a  "Memorandum  Regarding 
Architecture  at  Armour  Institute  of  Technology."  In  it  he  identified  three 
areas  of  concern.  The  first  two,  dealing  with  curriculum  and  faculty,  he 
recognized  asthe  responsibility  of  the  Institute,  although  it  would  not  be 
easy  to  reform  the  curriculum  quickly.  His  third  proposal,  to  form  a 
committee  of  outside  professional  architects  to  observe  and  advise  the 
department  and  administration,  initiated  an  analysis  of  the  current 
program  to  determine  the  best  future  for  the  school. 
The  architects  selected  for  this  committee,  all  in  practice  in  Chicago, 
were  Alfred  Alschuler,  C.  Herrick  Hammond,  John  Holabird,  Jerrold 
Loebl,  and  Alfred  Shaw.  Alschuler,  Hammond  and  Loebl  were  Armour 
alumni.  As  an  Armour  Trustee,  Alschuler  was  the  Mr.  Inside,  while 
Holabird  was  Mr.  Outside.  Further,  each  was  loyal  to  and  supportive  of 
Earl  Reed,  so  that,  at  least  at  the  outset,  neither  Reed,  nor  his  faculty, 
need  have  felt  disconcerted  by  the  formation  of  the  committee. 


50 


M  I  E  SS      CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


Asked  for  an  analysis  of  the  situation,  Reed  prepared  a  very  long 
description  of  a  fairly  typical  architectural  curriculum,  demonstrating 
neither  a  grasp  of  the  problem  nor  any  clear  ideas  for  the  future.  Early  in 
1936,  Willard  Hotchkiss,  Armour's  president,  wrote  Holabird  that, 

. .  .  the  work  ahead  was  both  short  range  and  long  range  and  that  we  welcome 
advice  on  the  immediate  matters  pointed  to  in  [Reed's]  report,  but  that  we  are 
particularly  desirous  of  laying  down  the  groundwork  of  a  long-time  program 
which  would  result  In  a  school  of  architecture  much  more  worthy  of  Chicago 
than  at  present ....  I  think  you  know,  this  is  exactly  my  idea,  and  the  reason  for 
creating  a  committee  of  cooperating  architects,  under  your  chairmanship  . .  .^ 

Hotchkiss  included  a  new  memorandum  Heald  had  prepared.  Heald 
had  concluded  Reed  was  unable  to  address  the  problemsof  the  school. 

. . .  Mr.  Reed's  report  summarizes  in  considerable  detail  the  work  of  the  Depart- 
ment and  will  serve  as  the  source  of  adequate  information  as  to  present  condi- 
tions, but  the  Committee  can  probably  be  of  maximum  service  by  approaching 
the  problem  as  a  broad  assignment  to  prepare  complete  specifications  for  an 
outstanding  Department  of  Architecture  of  from  75  to  100  students  for  Chicago.^ 

Holabird  got  to  work  in  February,  writing  a  number  of  architects  for 
advice."  They  responded  by  urging  the  selection  of  a  strong,  energetic, 
young  head  with  the  ability  and  opportunity  to  implement  his  ideas.  A 
list  of  younger  men  was  drawn  up,  and  Holabird  wrote  them  asking  if 
they  knew  anyone  prepared  for  such  a  challenge.^ 
In  iviarch  he  wrote  to  Mies,  saying  that  Armour  wanted, 

. . .  the  best  available  head  . . .  with  the  idea  of  making  it  the  finest  school  in  this 

Country. 

I  . . .  have  canvassed  . . .  various  American  architects  . . .  Amongst  others  . . . 

Richard  Neutra  ...  He  suggested  . .  .  Walter  Gropius  or  Josef  Emanuel  Margold 

as  he  felt  the  best  was  none  too  good  for  Chicago  .... 

In  talking  the  matter  over  with  the  Advisory  Committee,  I  thought  that  as  we 

were  considering  the  possibility  of  a  European  heading  this  school  that  I  would 

like  to  ask  if  you  would,  under  any  conditions,  consider  such  an  appointment.  I 

am,  of  course,  a  great  admirer  of  your  work  and  if  we  are  to  consider  the  best  I 

would  naturally  turn  to  you  first.* 

Noting  that  Paul  Cret  in  Philadelphia  and  Ellel  Saarinen  in  Detroit  had 
combined  teaching  successfully  with  practice,  Holabird  assured  Mies 
of  that  opportunity  in  Chicago,  suggesting  a  salary  between  $8,000  and 
$10,000  per  year. 

In  1936  Mies's  knowledge  of  Chicago  was  general  and  circumstantial. 
On  the  general  level  would  be  Mies's  professional  knowledge  of  archi- 


tects and  architecture  associated  with  Chicago.  Erich  Mendelsohn's 
Amerika  of  1927  or  Richard  Neutra's  Wie  Baut  Amerika  of  1926,  which 
presented  Chicago  and  its  buildings,  or  Mies's  memory  of  Frank  Lloyd 
Wright  would  have  reminded  him  of  architecture  of  significance  and 
interest  in  Chicago. 

Circumstantially  the  exhibition  of  "Modern  Architecture"  at  the 
Museum  of  Modern  Art  in  1932,  treated  Mies  with  great  respect,  rank- 
ing him  with  Gropius,  Oud  and  Le  Corbusier.  The  exhibition  catalog  also 
included  a  brief  history  of  modern  architecture  which  traveled  through 
Chicago  by  way  of  Richardson,  Sullivan  and  Wright.  Richard  Neutra, 
presented  as  an  example  of  a  European  experiencing  success  in 
America,  had  moved  to  that  success  through  Chicago  and  the  Holabird 
&  Roche  office.  The  youngest  native  born  American  architects  in  the 
exhibition,  the  Bowman  brothers,  Irving  and  Monroe,  graduates  of 
Armour,  had  earlier  worked  for  Holabird  &  Root,  and  the  catalog  com- 
pared their  work  to  Mies.  His  colleague  and  friend,  Ludwig  Hilber- 
seimer,  also  discussed  the  work  of  Holabird  a  Root  in  his  books. 
When  Mies  received  Holabird's  letter,  he  recognized  the  name,  firm, 
school  and  city.  In  a  cable  of  20  April,  followed  by  a  letter  of  4  May,  Mies 
expressed  interest  in  the  position,  asking  for  more  information  on  the 
curriculum,  facilities,  and  opportunity  for  private  practice. 
Armour  replied  quickly,  with  a  letter  of  12  May,' followed  by  cables  from 
Hotchkiss  on  4  June  and  Holabird  on  1 1  June.  Armour's  ardor  derived 
from  learning  that  Joseph  Hudnut,  the  new  dean  at  Harvard,  expressed 
interest  in  Mies's  taking  the  chair  in  architecture  at  the  Graduate  School 
of  Design.  This  effort  coincided  with  an  attempt  to  retain  Mies  as  the 
design  architect  for  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art.^  Alfred  Barr  saw  Mies 
on  20  June  1936,  bringing  messages  of  Hudnut  and  the  Museum  of 
Modern  Art.  Mies  expressed  interest  in  both  opportunities.  The  other 
architects  Barr  contacted  on  the  matter,  Oud  and  Gropius,  answered 
both  questions,  respectively,  with  a  no  and  a  maybe. 
On  the  same  day,  20  June,  that  Mies  received  Barr  with  enthusiasm,  he 
wrote  Armour  with  reservations  about  its  program,  saying  that  no 
simple  reform  of  theexisting  program  would  suit  him,  andthata  proper 
curriculum  must  address  both  the 

. .  .  premises,  nature  and  forms  of  expression  of  earlier  cultures  [and]  the  struc- 
tureof  ourown  . .  .  inorderto  makeclearthebasesandthepossibllltlesavailable 
for  our  own  cultural  work. 
You  will  understand  that  I  hesitated  to  take  the  proffered  position  since  so  far 


51 


MIES'S      CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


reaching  and  extensive  an  expansion  of  the  present  organization  seemed  to  me 
difflcuit  of  execution.  After  thorough  consideration  i  feel  that  I  cannot  accept 
your  invitation,  but  i  would  be  giad.  should  you  desire,  to  name  distinguished 
persons  whom  i  consider  valuable  and  capable  to  undertake  the  direction  of  the 
Department  of  Architecture  of  your  Institute.' 

Mies  closed  the  door,  but  offering  to  suggest  other  names  left  It  un- 
locked. In  addition,  his  reply  to  Holablrd,  suggested  the  door  might  even 
be  ajar: 

I  am  very  sorry  to  inform  you  that  after  thorough  consideration  1  am  unable  to 

accept  your  invitation  to  Armour  Institute. 

I  am  doing  this  because  It  seems  Impossible  to  carry  through  In  the  available 

framework  of  the  school  the  complicated  and  thorough  education  of  architects, 

which  nowadays  seems  necessary. 

The  changes  in  the  system  of  education  would  have  to  be  so  fundamental  that 

they  would  greatly  overstep  the  present  limits  of  the  architectural  department. I 

thank  you  very  much  for  your  efforts  and  hope  your  wishes  and  plans  for  the 

Institute  will  be  fulfilled.'" 

As  a  fall  back  position,  the  second  choice  of  the  Advisory  committee 
was  the  head  of  design  at  the  University  of  Illinois,  Arthur  Deam.  He  had 
taught  briefly  at  Armour  before  going  to  Illinois." 
When  Heald  realized  that  Hudnut  sought  Mies  he  saw  his  own  thinking 
confirmed.  Although  Hudnut's  curricularchanges  at  Columbia  aroused 
controversy,  his  proposals  accorded  with  Heald's  thinking  and  Mies's 
statements  of  principle  in  replying  to  Armour.  As  Heald  was  attempting 
at  Armour,  Columbia  had  established  a  committee  of  distinguished 
professionals  to  study  the  architecture  school  as  It  was.  It  also  studied 
other  programs,  Including  Saarinen's  at  Cranbrook,  as  well  as  other 
American  schools  of  architecture.  This  report  concluded  that. 

These  things  we  believe  to  be  essential; 

a.  A  flexible  curriculum  . . . 

b.  Elimination  of  competition  . . . 

c.  Stimulation  of  creative  Instinct  and  logical  thought . . . 

d.  A  true  relation  between  the  various  branches  of  study. . . 

e.  Contact  with  leaders  of  Architecture  and  of  other  professions  .  .  . 
Realizing  the  fundamental  changes  indicated  in  this  report,  we  recommend  that 
the  Dean  should  have  an  absolutely  free  hand  to  effect  them.'^ 

Hudnut  developed  Columbia's  curriculum  with  six  major  elements. 
First,  the  competition  was  abandoned  and  replaced  by  the  "problem" 
method.  Second,  Problems  were  of  two  types.  The  Major  Problem  was 
individual,  non-competitive  and  of  open  length,  while  the  second. 


Sketch,  problems  were  to  be  done  in  groups  on  a  competitive  basis,  of 
short  duration.  Third,  problems  in  construction  were  required.  Fourth, 
special  talents  of  the  student  were  recognized  and  encouraged.  Fifth, 
the  thesis  was  retained.  Sixth,  students  could  enter  only  one  outside 
competition  a  year.'^ 

The  parallels  between  Hudnut's  proposals  and  Mies's  later  suggestions, 
and  their  agreement  with  the  thesis  of  these  changes,  confirmed  Ar- 
mour's desire  to  hire  Mies. 

The  advisory  committee  saw  some  possibility  of  retaining  Mies,  for  on 
30  June,  they  rejected  Deam,  instead  urging  Armour  to  take  another 
chanceon  Mies  by  inviting  him  to  come  to  Chicago  to  study  the  situation 
for  one  or  two  weeks,  and  permit  both  sides  to  meet.  In  the  interim  they 
proposed  conducting  the  school  flexibly.  They  received  Reed's  resigna- 
tion, leaving  the  school  year  1936-1937.  without  a  director,  managed  by 
Jerrold  Loebl  and  Louis  Skidmore. 

In  writing  Mies,  Hotchkiss  emphasized  the  freedom  available  if  he  ac- 
cepted Armour's  offer: 

It  would  be  difficult.  I  believe,  to  find  an  educational  situation  which  is  essentially 
more  flexible  than  ours.  Our  reason  for  wishing  to  interest  you  In  becoming 
Director  of  our  Department  of  Architecture  was  the  belief  that  you  would  be  able 
to  chart  a  sound  course  for  the  future  better  than  anyone  else  whom  we  had 
considered.'" 

Mies  did  not  respond  to  Hotchkiss's  letter  until  2  September. 

I  have  to  Inform  you  that  in  the  meantime  I  have  received  an  offer  from  another 
American  university,  which  I  am  thinking  of  accepting.'^ 

Here  is  a  rare  case  of  Mies's  overstepping,  as  subsequent  events  made 
clear.  Mies  had  not  understood  the  conditional  nature  of  his  discussions 
with  Hudnut.  It  also  suggests  that  Mies  did  not  see  his  practice  or  his 
person  to  be  in  any  imminent  danger  in  Germany.  Although  such  Jews 
as  Mendelsohn  and  non-Jews  as  Gropius  had  left,  Mies's  rejection  of 
Armour  indicates  no  need  of  an  appointment  for  reasons  of  personal 
safety. 
Mies  learned  from  Barr,  Hudnut's  initial  emissary,  on  19  July  that, 

I  have  tried  very  hard  to  have  our  Museum  bring  you  to  America  as  collaborating 
architect  on  our  new  building,  but  I  am  afraid  that  I  shall  not  succeed. 
Believe  me,  I  am  very  much  disappointed  in  my  defeat.  It  has  been  a  hard  battle. 
In  any  case  I  hope  most  sincerely  for  a  favorable  outcome  to  your  conversation 
with  Dean  Hudnut. 


52 


MIESS     CURRICULUM      AT      IIT 


With  kindest  regards  to  you  and  Miss  Reich  —  It  was.  believe  me,  a  great  pleasure 
to  see  you  again.'* 

Barr  continued  to  try  to  get  Mies  the  job  at  the  Museum,  but  he  did  not 
write  Mies  again  of  this. 

Mies  could  only  have  felt  he  had  misunderstood  Hudnut  when  he  re- 
ceived Hudnut's  letter  of  3  September.  When  Hudnut  left  Mies  in  Berlin 
he  may  not  have  anticipated  the  effect  Gropius,  then  in  England,  might 
have.  As  is  said  of  Deans.  Hudnut  was  the  victim  of  the  last  person 
consulted,  In  this  case  Gropius.  In  writing  Armour  on  2  September  that 
he  had  received  an  offer.  Mies  did  not  expect  this  from  Hudnut: 

My  visit  in  Europe  is  ending  .  . .  and  I  wish  again  to  thank  you  for  your  many 
courtesies  to  me  during  my  days  in  Berlin. 

I  should  like  ...  to  make  a  formal  request  to  the  President  of  the  University  In 
respect  to  the  appointment  of  a  Professor  of  Design.  I  hope  that  I  may  receive 
from  you  a  letter  telling  me  that  you  are  able  to  consider  favorably  the  ac- 
ceptance of  a  chair  should  this  be  offered  you  ....  I  do  not  suggest  that  you 
should  accept  the  Chair  before  it  Is  offered,  and  I  assure  you  that  your  letter  will  in 
no  way  commit  you  to  such  a  course. 

It  would  be  foolish  to  pretend  that  there  will  not  be  opposition  to  the  appointment 
of  a  modern  Architect  as  Professor  of  Design.  In  Berlin  I  tried  to  make  clear  to 
you  the  cause  of  this  opposition  —  which  Is  based  In  part  on  ignorance  and  in 
part  on  a  difference  in  principles  —  and  since  my  visit  in  Berlin,  I  have  received 
letters  which  promise  an  opposition  even  more  serious  than  I  expected. 
The  President  suggests  that  my  chance  of  success  may  be  improved  if  he  is  able 
to  present  to  the  Senate  at  least  two  names,  each  of  which  Is  acceptable  to  me. 
I  should  like,  therefore,  to  propose  not  only  your  name  but  also  that  of  Mr. 
Gropius.  If  for  any  reason  this  does  not  meet  with  your  approval,  I  hope  you  will 
tell  me  so  frankly. 
Will  you  kindly  give  my  regards  —  and  those  of  my  wife  —  to  Frau  Reich?" 

A  letter  of  Mies's  on  2  September,  outlining  his  willingness  to  accept  a 
Harvard  appointment,  and  his  interest  in  the  conditions  of  professional 
practice  must  have  crossed  Hudnut's  letter  in  the  mail,  for  Mies  wrote 
Hudnut  on  15  September,  that, 

Your  letter . . .  forces  me  to  the  unpleasant  decision  to  cut  back  the  agreements  I 

made  to  you  in  my  letter  of  2  September. 

I  am  willing  to  accept  an  appointment,  but  not  to  make  myself  a  candidate  for  a 

chair.  If  you  stand  by  your  intention  to  submit  several  names  . . .  kindly  omit 

mine." 

To  send  this  letter,  Mies  knew  the  Harvard  position  might  be  lost. 
Whether  Hudnut  deceived  him,  or  his  ambition  exceeded  his  calcula- 


tion, the  flight  of  Harvard  and  MoMA  made  him  wonder  why  Armour's 
offer  escaped  his  grasp.  As  Mies  considered  Hudnut's  letters  of  28 
September,  26  October,  and  6  November  he  realized  his  chance  had 
escaped  him.  Hudnut's  tone  becomes  more  businesslike,  his  sugges- 
tions of  friendship  disappear,  and  he  reports  secondary  material.  In  the 
28  September  1936,  letter  he  declares: 

It  has  not  been,  at  any  time,  my  intention  to  make  it  appear  that  you  are  a 
candidate  for  an  appointment  at  Harvard  and  I  have  been  most  careful  not  to  do 
anything  which  might  lead  any  one  to  suppose  that  this  was  true." 

If  this  were  true,  it  is  impossible  to  understand  Mies's  declaring  to 
Hotchkiss  that  he  was  considering  accepting  an  offer. 
In  the  26  October  letter,  addressed  to  questions  of  practice,  Mies 
learned  both  Barr  and  Hudnut  had  spoken  in  ignorance  on  matters  they 
should  have  known.  He  had  the  choice  of  deciding  them  to  be  duplicti- 
ous  or  stupid.  Neither  was  attractive: 

Among  those  states  which  will  permit  no  foreigner  to  practice  architecture 
under  any  circumstances  Is  the  important  state  of  New  York.  I  am  greatly 
surprised  and  greatly  shocked  by  this  circumstance  which  seems  to  me  stupid 
and  unfair.  .  .  [It  is  not  clear  if  Mies  knew  that  prior  to  taking  his  position  at 
Harvard,  Hudnut  had  been  dean  at  Columbia,  and  thus  presumably  in  a  position 
to  know  something  of  licensing  procedures  in  New  York.] 
In  Massachusetts  a  citizen  of  a  foreign  country  may  obtain  a  license  to  practice 
architecture,  but  such  a  license  will  permit  him  to  undertake  a  commission  for 
one  building  only  ... 

The  third  state  in  [architectural]  importance  is  Illinois.  In  Illinois,  qualified  men 
from  France.  Germany,  Austria,  and  Italy  have  been  registered  and  been  per- 
mitted to  practice,  even  though  they  were  not  citizens  of  the  United  States. 
The  information  which  I  have  outlined  above  has  caused  me  very  great  disap- 
pointment, not  only  because  I  am  afraid  that  you  will  feel  you  cannot  consider  a 
Chair  In  a  city  in  which  you  cannot  practice,  but  also  because  it  would  prevent 
you  from  carrying  on  important  work,  wereyou  to  come  here.  It  was  not  merely 
my  plan  to  give  you  opportunities  for  teaching:  I  was  almost  equally  interested  in 
the  service  I  might  render  the  cause  of  architecture  in  this  country.^" 

As  Mies  considered  the  ambiguities  of  being  offered  and  not  being 
offered  the  same  job  by  the  same  person  in  the  same  letter,  one  view  of 
the  last  paragraph  is  that  Hudnut  wished  Mies  to  withdraw  his  candi- 
dacy, because  Mies  would  not  be  in  a  position  to  realize  Hudnut's 
purposes.  On  6  November  Hudnut  reports  being  -greatly  distressed  by 

this  delay,  but  I  am  not  discouraged "  He  noted  meeting  Michael 

(whom  he  recalled  as  Martin)  van  Beuren,  a  student  of  Mies's  at  the 


53 


MIESS      CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


Bauhaus,  urging  van  Beuren  to  write  Mies  frankly  of  the  situation.^' 
The  letter  of  16  November  delivered  the  final  blow: 

I  am  sorry  to  have  to  write  to  you,  after  conferences  with  the  President  and  with 
members  of  the  Governing  Boards,  that  I  have  not  been  successful  in  my  plans.  I 
think  it  will  be  impracticable  to  Invite  you  at  the  present  time  to  accept  a  Chair  at 
Harvard.  I  believe  It  will  be  necessary  for  me  to  consider  what  other  men  may  be 
available  for  appointment  as  Professor  of  Design.  I  feel  that  loughttotellyouthls 
frankly. 

I  am  very  greatly  disappointed,  but  I  shall  not  give  up  the  hope  that,  in  the  future, 
there  may  develop  a  situation  in  which  it  will  be  practicable  for  me  to  take  up  with 
you  once  more  the  plans  which  we  discussed  in  Berlin. 

Please  be  assured  of  my  continued  esteem  and  of  my  sincere  gratitude  to  you  — 
not  only  for  your  many  courtesies  to  me  in  Berlin,  but  also  for  the  generous 
consideration  you  have  given  me  since  the  time  of  my  visit  there.''' 

A  cordial  letter,  except  it  is  compromised  by  a  letter  Hudnut  wrote  to 
Alfred  Barr  the  same  day: 

I  should  like  to  tell  you  —  of  course  in  confidence  —  that  it  is  highly  probable  that 
Gropius  will  be  appointed  Professor  of  Design  in  our  school . , .  It  seems  to  me  to 
be  practicable,  therefore,  for  you  to  make  use  of  his  services  in  New  York,  should 
you  wish  to  do  so." 

Hudnut  seems  not  to  remember  what  he  wrote  to  Mies  only  three  weeks 
earlier: 

I  felt  so  strongly  in  respect  to  the  information  [that  you  would  not  be  permitted  to 
practice  even  as  a  consultant  in  New  York]  given  me  by  the  Chairman  of  the 
[National  Council  of  Architectural  Registration]  Board  that  I  went  so  far  as  to  ask 
my  lawyers  whether  or  not  the  position  of  the  Board  could  be  maintained  in  the 
courts,  and  I  asked  my  friend.  Mr  Barr,  to  address  a  similar  question  to  his 
attorneys.  In  both  Instances  we  were  informed  that  the  law  had  already  been 
tested  . . .  and  the  Board's  position  upheld  by  the  court. ^'' 

If  what  he  said  then  was  true,  what  he  said  to  Barr  issllly  and  would  give 
Barr  pause,  for  he  had  attempted  to  have  a  foreign  architect  serve  as  a 
collaborator  and  lost,  as  well  as  having  made  inquiries  on  exactly  this 
matter  for  Hudnut. 
Despite  Mies's  rejection,  Hotchkiss  wrote  back  immediately: 

I  am  pleased  to  know  that  you  are  likely  to  get  to  America  in  the  spring,  and  shall 
hope  that  we  can  at  least  have  you  in  Chicago  for  a  lecture  and  that  the  members 
of  our  faculty  and  advisory  committee  will  have  the  opportunity  of  your  counsel, 
which  you  have  so  generously  offered  to  make  available." 

In  acknowledging  his  copy  of  this  letter,  Holabird  wrote  Hotchkiss: 


I  am  sorry  to  hear  that  he  has  decided  to  go  to  an  Eastern  university.  I  know  that 
we  made  the  first  offer  but  In  all  probability  whoever  It  is  in  the  East  offered  him 
half  again  as  much  as  we  indicated.  [Actually,  Hudnut's  memo  on  the  subject  set 
salary  at  $10,000 or  25%  more  than  Armour.]^*  I  had  hopedthat  he  might  spend  a 
year  or  two  here  before  receiving  such  an  offer. 

I  will  gather  the  Committee  together  to  discuss  the  matter  of  the  lecture.  It  seems 
to  me  much  more  Important  to  decide  whom  you  can  get  permanently  for  Head 
of  the  school.  I  must  confess  i  hate  to  consider  anyone  but  the  top." 

A  more  important  letter  from  Holabird  to  Hotchkiss  reported  that  Mies 
was  exploring  whether  the  door  that  he  again  closed  might  be  opened: 

Yesterday  Mr.  Loebl  introduced  me  to  an  American,  M.  Van  Beuren,  who  has  just 
returned  from  Germany  where  he  spent  two  or  three  years  studying  with  Mies 
van  der  Rohe.  He  said  that  he  had  translated  our  letters  and  knew  all  about  his 
possible  connection  in  this  Country. 

Har  vard  was  the  other  university  that  made  a  proposition  to  him  but  it  seems  that 
there  has  been  some  hitch  [I]  and  his  status  is,  therefore,  uncertain.  He  definitely 
declined  your  offer  as  at  that  time  he  realized  that  you  had  to  have  a  definite 
answer  although  he  as  yet  had  not  determined  definitely  the  course  he  was  going 
to  pursue. 

[Holabird  then  reported  asking  Mies  to  come  and  lecture,  accepting  van 
Beuren's  warning  that  Mies  could  not  speak  English.] 

Mr.  Loebl  had  time  to  show  him  around  the  Art  Institute  and  show  him  in  detail 
the  work  of  the  school.  Van  Beuren  seemed  to  think  that  this  would  be  a  logical 
place  for  him  to  come.  Incidentally,  he  said  that  Mies  van  der  Rohe  was  very 
quiet,  agreeable  personality,  modest  and  a  fine  instructor.  In  his  opinion  the 
school  here  would  be  very  successful.^' 

Reporting  to  Mies  on  his  visit,  as  well  as  the  advice  of  former  Mies 
students,  John  Rodgers  and  William  Priestley,  van  Beuren  said, 

[We]  believe  it  is  better  for  you  in  Chicago.  The  people  have  more  initiative;  they 
get  more  naturally  and  directly  to  the  point .... 

At  Armour . . .  the  people  repeated  their  promise  of  absolute  freedom  .... 
But  the  school  is  small, . . .  and  the  location  is  miserable  . . .  what  an  example  it  is 
of  America's  fantastic  inconsistencies  ..." 

Hardly  a  ringing  endorsement  of  Armour,  yet  the  opportunity  might  be 
greater.  Mies  now  had  to  consider  whether  he  wished  to  create  a  school 
and  curriculum,  a  process  that  would  take  enormous  thought  and 
work.  At  Harvard  Mies  would  have  been  a  not  the  professor  of  design. 
Even  with  the  prestige  the  position  afforded,  the  curriculum  was  Hud- 
nufs  responsibility.  Among  the  ironies,  Harvard  would  afford  the  most 
time  for  private  practice,  yet  the  Massachusetts  laws  prohibited  it,  and 


54 


M I E SS     CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


the  responsibility  at  Armour  would  limit  the  time  spent  in  private  pur- 
suits, although  the  licensing  in  Illinois  permitted  it. 
Mies  did  not  follow  up  on  the  inquiries  made  by  van  Beuren.  He  consid- 
ered his  options,  refusing  to  make  a  precipitate  move.  Losing  the  op- 
portunities at  MoMA  and  Harvard,  forced  Mies  to  be  deliberate  in 
making  his  next  move. 

For  its  part.  Armour  wished  to  avoid  a  second  school  year  without  a 
director.  Not  having  heard  again  from  Mies,  it  negotiated  with  Deam  of 
the  University  of  Illinois.  Even  as  they  sought  Deam,  Hotchkiss  and 
Holabird  hoped  to  do  better  in  the  future. 

When  Deam  declined  the  appointment,  the  Architect's  Committee  ex- 
tended the  pattern  developed  in  the  past  year,  with  Charles  Dornbusch 
as  Senior  Critic,  in  place  of  the  often  traveling  Louis  Skidmore,  and 
Jerrold  Loebl  as  Acting  Director.  As  late  as  22  July  1937,  Armour 
discussed  the  future  of  the  department  without  mention  of  Mies.  They 
had  heard  neither  from  him  nor  such  American  contacts  as  van  Beuren, 
Rodgers  or  Priestley. 

Following  an  initial  contact  in  February  and  interviews  early  that  sum- 
mer, Mies  accompanied  Helen  Resor  to  America  In  August  to  see  the 
site  of  the  house  they  wished  him  to  design.  During  the  train  layover  in 
Chicago  on  23  August,  on  the  trip  to  the  Resor's  Wyoming  site,  Mies 
briefly  saw  the  city,  concentrating  on  Richardson.  Sullivan  and  Wright, 
in  the  company  of  Priestley  and  two  other  architects.  Priestley  spoke  to 
John  Holabird  who  expressed  keen  interest  in  seeing  Mies  on  his  return 
from  Wyoming. 

On  9  September,  Mies  had  lunch  with  John  Holabird,  Alfred  Shaw,  C. 
Herrick  Hammond,  Jerrold  Loebl,  Charles  Dornbusch,  Helmut  Bartsch, 
William  Priestley  and  Henry  Heald.  He  visited  the  Art  Institute  and  the 
33rd  Street  campus.  Heald  reported  to  Hotchkiss  that,  "Mr.  Holabird 
and  the  other  architects  are  extremely  enthusiastic  about  the  prospect 
of  getting  Mies  to  become  a  member  of  the  staff  of  our  Department  of 
Architecture."^" 

The  next  day,  a  Friday,  Mies  left  for  Taliesen  to  meet  Frank  Lloyd 
Wright.  Intended  as  an  overnight  visit,  the  encounter  extended  until 
Monday.^'  At  a  luncheon  on  Tuesday  with  Heald  and  Armour's  chair- 
man of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  James  Cunningham,  Mies  was  asked  to 
prepare  a  curriculum,  which  he  intended  to  complete  in  Chicago,  but 
was  forced  to  complete  later  in  New  York  where  he  worked  on  the 
Resor  project. 


Mies  made  a  good  impression,  and  Armour  did  not  wish  to  lose  him  a 
second  time.  Heald  concluded  his  memo  to  Hotchkiss: 

Mies  van  der  Rohe  appears  to  De  a  very  excellent  man.  He  has  a  pleasant 
personality  and  a  fine  appearance  At  the  present  time,  he  cannot  speak  English, 
but  I  presume  that  could  be  remedied  reasonably  soon.  He  Indicated  that  he  was 
Interested  in  our  opportunity  and  that.  In  case  something  could  be  worked  out, 
he  might  be  available  within  six  months  or  so." 

Hotchkiss  wrote  Mies  on  the  17th,  requesting  Mies  to  specify  his  cur- 
riculum, prior  to  offering  his  appointment.  Replying  to  Hotchkiss  on  the 
22nd,  already  back  in  New  York,  Mies  expressed  interest  in  the  problem 
and  the  position.  Instead  of  returning  to  Europe  by  mid-October,  he 
spent  the  winter  in  New  York,  with  a  brief  trip  to  Chicago  in  February, 
before  leaving  for  Europe  at  the  end  of  March. 

On  10  December  1937,  Mies  sent  Heald  his  description  and  chart  of  his 
curriculum  for  Armour.  He  delayed  this  proposal, 

...  to  give  myself  time  to  acquire  sufficient  insight  into  American  conditions  to 
enable  me  to  adjust  my  proposals  more  fully  to  the  cultural  situation  here. 
In  contrast  to  the  mastery  of  the  material  world  and  the  high  development  In  the 
technical  and  economic  fields,  the  lack  of  a  determining  force  In  the  cultural 
realm  leads  here  to  an  uncertainty  which  can  be  overcome  only  through  suffi- 
cient insight  into  spiritual  relationships. 

It  would  serve  no  useful  purpose,  therefore,  to  add  another  educational  method 
to  those  already  in  existence,  unless  this,  while  providing  as  a  matter  of  course 
the  necessary  professional  training,  were  to  lead  without  fail  to  a  clear  and 
unequivocal  spiritual  orientation. 

For  this  reason  I  have  undertaken  to  develop  a  curriculum  which  in  itself  incor- 
porates this  clarifying  principle  of  order,  which  leaves  no  room  for  deviation  and 
which,  through  its  systematic  structure,  leads  [to]  an  organic  unfolding  of 
spiritual  and  cultural  relationships. 

Inasmuch  as  the  question  is  that  of  an  organic  principle  of  order,  depending  on 
no  definite  presuppositions  but  reckoning  with  given  American  conditions,  the 
danger  of  grafting  one  form  of  culture  on  an  environment  of  another  character  is 
avoided. 

Culture  cannot  be  imported  but  results  from  the  harmonious  unfolding  of  one's 
own  powers. 

The  strength  but  also  the  difficulty  in  the  American  situation  lies  in  the  existence 
of  new  problems  of  spiritual  significance  and  new  means  for  their  solution.  But 
the  strength  of  the  existing  organizational  and  technical  forces  assures  the 
possibility  of  an  original  and  meaningful  solution  of  the  cultural  question. 
Culture  as  the  harmonious  relationship  of  man  to  his  environment  and  architec- 
ture as  the  necessary  manifestation  of  this  relationship  is  the  meaning  and  goal 
of  the  course  of  studies. 
Accompanying  program  is  the  unfolding  of  this  plan.  Step  I  is  an  investigation 


55 


M  I  E  SS      CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


Into  the  nature  of  materials  and  their  truthful  expression.  Step  II  teaches  the 
nature  of  functions  and  their  truthful  fulfillment.  Step  III  on  the  basis  of  these 
technical  and  utilitarian  studies  begins  the  actual  creative  worK  in  architecture. 
Step  by  step,  as  the  training  progresses,  the  architectural  problem  will  reveal 
itself  in  its  fullness  and  monumentality. 

The  consistent  execution  of  this  plan,  with  the  inclusion  of  the  fine  arts,  termi- 
nates logically  in  a  Universitas  Artis." 

Insisting  on  the  three  step  sequence  from  structure  to  plan  to  beauty, 
iviies  distanced  his  curriculum  from  Gropius  and  the  Bauhaus  on  one 
hand  and  the  Beaux-Arts  method  on  the  other.  For  Gropius,  architec- 
ture (delight)  inevitably  resulted  from  the  correct  solution  of  plan  and 
structure."  For  the  Beaux-Arts  method,  the  architect's  first  responsi- 
bility was  to  develop  a  clear  form  or  parti,  to  which  problems  of  organi- 
zation and  structure  would  be  subordinate.  If  one  assumed  a  masonry 
tradition,  allowing  for  great  flexibility  in  the  poche.  to  resolve  conflict- 
ing interests  and  forms,  the  Beaux- Arts  system  had  great  validity.  Mies's 
application  of  the  insight  presented  by  Le  Corbusier  in  his  Dom-ino 
House,  that  the  vertical  frame  and  horizontal  floor  slabs  were  indepen- 
dent, to  problems  distinct  from  issues  of  function  or  a  priori  form  led 
him  to  choose  structure  as  the  basis  upon  which  architecture  could  be 
developed.  For  much  of  his  career  Mies  studied  books  on  crystal 
theory.  In  determining  that  structure,  as  idea  and  fact,  provided  the 
basis  of  modern  architecture,  he  saw  structure  as  analogous  to  the 
crystal  structure  at  the  base  of  all  matter.  Mies  sought  the  crystalline 
basis  of  structure  to  learn  to  give  it  expression.  He  followed  the  "road  of 
discipline  from  materials,  through  function,  to  creative  work."^^  Archi- 
tecture "is  the  crystallization  of  [time's]  inner  structure,  the  slow  un- 
folding of  its  form."^^  Focusing  en  a  question  of  values.  Mies  attempted 
to  understand  and  communicate  them  reasoning  by  analogy. 
In  addition  to  his  own  ideas  on  education,  Mies  studied  material  in  the 
contemporary  American  discussion  of  education  and  values.  Mies  col- 
lected and  read  several  books  on  this  debate  in  the  late  thirties. 
Throughout,  he  attempted  to  understand  the  Americanness  of  the 
problem.  One  of  the  key  words  which  he  emphasizes  is  organic.  The 
several  days  Mies  spent  with  Frank  Lloyd  Wright  in  September  1937 
gave  Mies  the  idea  that  organic  was  an  appropriately  American  word, 
leading  him  to  use  it  frequently  to  summarize  his  thinking  about  archi- 
tectural education.  Such  was  the  case  in  preparing  his  prospectus  for 
the  educational  program  at  Armour  in  the  winter  of  1937-1938.^^  Here 


organic  is  used  to  mean  coherent,  consequential,  related  to  an  order.  It 
does  not  assume  a  simple  or  primitive  state. 

Before  making  these  points,  Mies  studied  the  debate  in  America  about 
the  role  of  the  professional  school  in  university  education.  His  claim  for 
a  "universitas  artis"  at  the  end  of  his  December  letter  is,  in  part,  an  effort 
to  counter  the  objections  of  such  academics  as  Robert  Hutchins  of  the 
University  of  Chicago.  Hutchins,  whom  Mies  had  studied  to  the  point  of 
underlining  key  passages. ^=  argued  that  a  professional  school  was 
training  while  a  university  should  be  concerned  with  values  not  tech- 
nique, and  so  the  two  were  inherently  hostile.  Mies's  response,  that  the 
two  were  crucially  interconnected  is  summarized  in  Paul  Valery's 
Eupalinos.  or  the  Arctiitect,  where  Socrates  apologizes  for  his  prior 
emphasis  on  the  mind, 

If,  then,  the  universe  is  the  effect  of  some  act;  that  act  itself,  the  effect  of  a  Being, 
and  of  a  need,  a  thought,  a  knowledge  and  a  power  which  belongs  to  that  Being, 
it  is  then  only  by  an  act  that  you  can  rejoin  the  grand  design,  and  undertake  the 
imitation  of  that  which  has  made  all  things.  And  that  is  to  put  oneself  in  the  most 
natural  way  in  the  very  place  of  the  God.^' 

Mies's  ideas  on  the  learning  process  reflected  his  experience  and  study. 
At  its  core  he  believed  one  learned  when  one  needed  the  material  being 
taught.  In  addition  to  a  low  level  of  curiosity,  it  assumes  as  well  a  short 
time  horizon.  One  learns  the  immediately  useful  or  necessary,  but  has 
difficulty  learning  what  may  be  useful  in  the  future.  Mies  further  be- 
lieved that  college  students  were  not  sufficiently  experienced  to  con- 
sider larger  questions  in  a  meaningful  manner.  Instead,  Mies  sought  to 
train  his  students  so  they  could  make  good,  safe  buildings,  believing 
they  would  not  become  creative  until  later  when  they  began  to  question 
and  explore  what  they  had  previously  taken  for  granted. 
This  does  not  mean  that  Mies  was  unconcerned  with  the  teaching  of 
academic  or  non-professional  subjects.  In  developing  the  curriculum, 
he  gave  much  of  the  first  year  to  non-professional  studies  so  students 
would  be  aware  of  the  role  of  and  need  for  values  in  modern  society.  In 
addition,  he  asked  that  they  be  taught  the  academic  tools,  mathematics 
and  physics,  which  he  assumed  supported  his  own  architectural  ideas. 
Since  Mies  did  not  have  an  academic  background,  his  knowledge  of 
physics  and  calculus  was  largely  based  on  office  experience  and  his 
own  assumptions,  reinforced  by  his  readings  in  philosophy  and  sci- 
ence, that  they  provided  a  foundation  for  creative  thought. 


56 


M  I  E  SS     CURRICULUM      AT      IIT 


z 

0 

I- 
< 

u 

D 
Q 
UJ 


< 

D 
I- 
U 
UJ 

\- 

X 

u 

< 


0) 

z 
< 

LiJ 

2 


CREATION 

OF    ELEMENTARY      BUILDING    FORMS 


WOOD-STONE  BRICK  STEEL  CONCRETE 


VARIOUS      COMaJMATIONS        OF       TME      ABOVE        MATERIALS 


to 

ZU 


<0  ^Dl~ 


i?i 


5     SO 

Sqo' 


5»  S5F 


hl!^ 


I- 


y 
ir 


UJ 

K 


111 
h- 
U 
IT 
U 
Z 

o 
u 


0) 
LiJ 
0) 

O 
Q_ 
IT 
D 
Q_ 


_     LJUJQ.* 

q:  i-ZqtC- 
D  <OdQ: 
Li.   5ua.< 

IT 
O 
an 

hi 

\- 
z 


ALVSIS         OF        VARIOUS  FUNCTIONS  OF  BUILDINGS 


^8 


!5   l^iOK 
_l   I  <  lU 


_l 
_l 
llJ 

Q 


|Z 


zS    2S 


en 

LU 

z 

D 
O 

u 

Q 
LJ 

!t 

z 

D 

Q 
Z 
< 

If) 

a. 


(3  "" 

a: 
O 

LJ 

I 
I- 


sS 


6SS« 


is 


UJ 

t 
u 

z 


UJ 

z 
z  z 

23 

N 

i< 


z 

0 

-  o 

Ul  UJ 


O  o 


C5 

Z 

< 
UJ 

u 

Q 

z 
< 

o 

z 

z 
z 
< 

_l 


yl 


I 
u 
o 

Q. 
UJ 


UJ 

I 
I- 


z 
o 

Q. 

D 

UJ 
U 

z 

UJ 

Q 

z 

Itl 


q: 
o 


u. 
0 


Ul 

_l 

u 

z 

UJ 

i 

to 

8 

Q. 


"in" 

;5°  o 

^  ,5    < 


5 
q: 
O 
u. 

_i 
< 

D 
H 
U 
UJ 

t 
I 
u 

< 


2 
UJ 

UJ 

_l 

UJ 
Ul 

I 

H 


q: 

2 
< 

D 
I- 
U 
UJ 

h 
I 

< 


1^ 

o 
\- 
u 

I- 

0) 
UJ 

I 


ARCHITECTURA    L 


DRAWING 


ARCHITECTURAL 


DRAWING 


FREEHAN   D 


DRAW  I    N  G 


AND 


LIFE 


DRAWING 


STRUCTURA   L 


DESIGN 


STRUCTURAL 


DESIGN 


M  ECHAN I C AL 


EQUIPMENT 


AND 


DESIGN 


SPECIFICATIONS 


ESTI  M  ATI  NG 


FINANCING         LAW       SUPERVISION  OFFICE     PRACTICE 


MATHEMATI CS 


AND 


NATURAL        SCIENCE 


THE        NATURE         OF  MAN 


THE         NATURE         OF        HUMAN        SOCIETY 


ANALYSIS        OF       TECHNICS 


ANALYSIS 
T  U  R  E 


OF       CULTURE 


CU  L" 


A    S 


OBLIGATORY 


TASK 


Program  for  Architectural  Education, 
Illinois  Institute  of  Technology,  1938. 
Courtesy  of  Brenner  Danforth  Rockwell. 


Although  less  appareht  in  the  first  year  than  later,  even  here  Mies 
instituted  a  method  of  learning  framed  by  intensestudy  of  opposites:the 
highly  specific  and  detailed  and  the  highly  abstract  and  general.  In  the 
first  year  students  learned  to  make  architectural  drawings  as  well  as  to 
begin  to  use  drawings  as  a  means  of  seeing  in  life  drawing  classes. 
From  the  precision  of  the  carefully  developed,  inked  line  drawing  to  the 


looseness  of  the  life  drawing,  students  began  to  grasp  the  range  of 
possibilities  of  expression  and  precision  available  to  a  thoroughly  mas- 
tered technique.  Despite  the  tradition  that  the  idea  is  more  important 
than  the  thing  which  represents  it,  Mies  wanted  his  students  to  discover 
that  without  technique  they  were  without  ideas.  His  preferred  version 
of  this  concept  was  through  the  metaphor  of  language:  that  the  same 


57 


MIES'S      CURRICULUM      AT 


I  T 


words  and  grammar,  syntax  and  diction  that  allowed  us  to  speak  or 
write  a  clear  prose  also  permitted  one  to  create  poetry.  There  were 
many  possible  sources  for  Mies  to  have  encountered  this  idea.  Among 
them  are  Valery's  Eupalinos.  in  which  it  is  asked  "  .  .  .have  you  not 
noticed,  in  walking  about  this  city,  that  among  the  buildings  with  which 
it  is  peopled,  certain  are  mute,  others  speak  and  others,  finally  —  and 
they  are  the  most  rare  —  slng?"^° 

Additionally,  Frank  Lloyd  Wright  wrote  in  his  Autobiography  of  Victor 
Hugo's  digression  in  Notre  Dame  "The  book  will  kill  the  building,"  in 
which  he  argued  that  prior  to  the  printing  press  the  greatest  poets  had 
been  architects,  but  that  now  poets  no  longer  needed  to  build.  As  with 
Wright,  Mies  may  have  seen  this  as  a  challenge,  while  accepting  the 
premise:  Ut  architectura  poesis.  architecture  is  like  poetry. 
As  with  drawing,  where  Mies  showed  students  the  technical  and  the 
lyrical,  so  too,  poetry  was  the  rare  product  of  an  absolute  mastery  of  the 
techniques  of  language.  What  began  as  measured,  logical  and  rational 
becomes  the  means  by  which  one  transcends  reason  to  create  poetry 
or  architecture.  In  the  following  years  students  studied  subjects  at  the 
edges  of  the  technical  and  the  abstract.  In  second  year  they  began  with 
the  disci  pi  ine  of  the  brick  and  explored  the  means  of  seeing  through  the 
abstraction  of  visual  training.  Even  here,  seeing  is  approached  in  a 
measured  and  rational  manner,  in  which  decisions  are  made  through 
comparative  study,  constantly  seeking  to  find  a  better  expression  of  the 
particular  problem.  When  the  curriculum  moved  from  means  to  pur- 
poses, the  paired  nature  of  problems  continued.  Here  there  was  the 
discipline  of  planning  the  elements  of  the  dwelling:  kitchen,  bathroom, 
bedroom,  living  room,  set  against  the  abstraction  of  the  study  of  three 
dimensional  space,  where  the  proportions,  tensions  and  relations  of 
elements  in  two  dimensions  are  extended  into  three,  with  the  new  realm 
of  architectural  space  to  be  understood. 

In  the  final  stage  of  undergraduate  teaching,  planning  and  creating,  the 
technical  and  the  abstract  merge  in  the  development  of  a  building.  Not 
only  do  students  solve  all  the  problems  of  making  the  building,  they  are 
also  prepared  to  consider  its  significance  as  the  expression  of  a  unified 
work  of  art.  The  student  discovers  the  idea  that  only  with  complete 
technique  are  they  able  to  deal  appropriately  with  the  concepts  their 
abstract  thinking  has  prepared  them  to  consider. 

So  far,  the  description  has  presented  what  Mies  saw  as  the  purpose  of 
the  curriculum  for  the  best  students.  Mies  argued  that  with  one  out- 


standing student  a  year,  hecould  transform  architecture.  He  believed  all 
students  should  be  exposed  to  the  possibilities  of  architecture  even  if 
they  might  not  achieve  them,  while  it  was  the  school's  responsibility  to 
make  sure  they  were  capable  of  doing  whatever  they  attempted  with 
the  best  use  of  material,  plan  and  expression.  This  accounts  for  his 
devoting  so  much  time  to  the  precise  and  the  abstract.  Many  students 
were  satisfied  to  master  the  precise.  Nonetheless,  they  would  also  be 
aware  of  the  possibilities  of  the  abstract  in  the  hands  of  a  truly  gifted 
architect. 

A  corollary  of  Mies's  ideas  about  the  learning  process  is  his  assumption 
that  one  became  intellectually  engaged  only  in  adulthood.  Much,  if  not 
most,  university  education  has  been  predicated  on  the  opposite  as- 
sumption, that  late  adolescence  is  the  period  in  life  when  people  are 
most  intellectually  curious.  Mies  was  struck  by  the  idea  that  late  adoles- 
cence is  a  time  of  fear  of  the  unknown  and  an  interest  in  mastery  and 
control.  Only  with  adult  experience  would  a  person  become  strong  and 
free  enough  to  tolerate  ambiguities,   make  judgments  and  develop 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  1938. 
Courtesy  of  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology. 


Ludwig  Hllberselmer,  I.,  and  John  B. 
Rodgers.  1938.  Courtesy  of  Illinois 
Institute  of  Technology. 


Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Fourth  Year 
Studio  Critique.  1939.  Courtesy  of  Illinois 
Institute  of  Technology. 


58 


M I E SS     CURRICULUM      AT      IIT 


Walter  Peterhans.  c.1940.  Courtesy  of 
Thomas  Burleigh. 


commitment  to  particular  values  on  the  basis  of  understanding  rather 
than  authority. 

Mies  further  considered  what  could  be  taught  as  opposed  to  what  could 
be  learned.  In  visual  training,  or  in  studying  architectural  space,  the 
school  exercise  provided  an  opportunity  to  learn  about  the  subject. 
Those  conducting  the  course  talked  about  the  subject  and  demon- 
strated with  analogies  some  of  the  problems  and  issues  to  be  consid- 
ered, but  were  not  expected  to  beable  to  teach  such  sensibilities.  This  is 
suggested  by  our  habit  of  speaking  of  a  sense  of  color  or  proportion  or 
scale  rather  than  knowledge.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  assumed  that 
certain  skills,  techniques,  concepts  and  ideas  may  be  taught.  Through 
demonstration,  practice,  study  and  effort,  one  can  be  taught  to  draw  a 
line,  but  not  to  learn  what  a  line  may  mean.  One  can  be  taught  to  build  a 
structure  but  not  how  to  learn  what  a  structure  may  mean.  One  can  be 
taught  how  to  analyze  a  room,  but  not  how  to  learn  the  meaning  of  a 
room. 

Another  factor  influencing  the  curriculum  is  Mies's  recognition  that 
students  liked  to  achieve  and  demonstrate  mastery.  He  organized  the 
curriculum  so  a  student  might  feel  pleased  with  a  careful  drawing, 
model  or  analysis,  in  which  all  the  factors  were  understood  and  incor- 
porated in  the  solution.  This  sense  of  assurance  would  be  balanced  with 
the  continuing  lack  of  ease  students  encountered  in  their  more  abstract 
problems,  where  they  were  not  shown  the  "right"  answer,  and  in  fact 
were  regularly  told  no  such  answer  existed.  Once  again,  the  framing 
method  of  the  curriculum,  the  opposition  of  very  specific  and  very 
abstract  topics,  allowed  the  student  confidence  in  achievement  coupled 
with  experience  of  the  continuing  challenge  of  the  subject. 
This  approach  also  benefitted  from  technical  training  capable  of  pro- 
ducing competent  professionals,  making  the  education  useful  for  stu- 
dents of  ordinary  gifts.  Only  occasionally  would  students  of  extraor- 
dinary capabilities  be  able  to  do  truly  creative  work  with  such  a  cur- 
riculum. Nonetheless,  the  abstraction  of  the  most  difficult  aspects  of  the 
curriculum  would  be  able  to  earn  the  respect  of  weaker  students  and 
provide  open  ended  challenges  to  more  gifted  students. 
Mies  often  referred  to  the  benefits  of  teaching  architecture  in  an  engi- 
neering school,  but  this  was  more  the  rhetoric  of  the  logic  of  a  situation 
than  a  necessary,  crucial  or  even  central  element  of  his  curriculum.  He 
invested  little  time  in  learning  the  strengths  of  IIT's  engineering  school. 
He  never  created  a  materials,  structures  or  other  engineering  and 


architecture  laboratory  to  advance  the  technical  state  of  the  disciplines, 
despite  the  fact  that  he  expected  such  technical  experts  to  develop 
techniques  to  answer  the  demands  his  new  ideas  proposed.  These 
included  problems  of  warming,  cooling  and  ventilating  his  buildings. 
When  he  made  his  proposals  for  buildings  at  IIT  a  number  of  engineers 
criticized  the  solar  gain  that  would  result  from  the  large  areas  of  glass. 
Mies  made  a  few  Inquiries  i nto  the  possibi I ities  of  developing  a  glass  that 
would  not  be  thermally  transparent,  but  in  the  end  he  chose  to  rely  on 
Venetian  blinds  on  the  interior  and  trees  for  shade  on  the  exterior.  He 
expected  the  engineers  to  develop  techniques  to  solve  these  problems. 
In  his  first  few  years  at  IIT,  Mies  taught  the  fourth  year  architecture 
studio,  while  also  working  to  develop  and  study  the  introduction  of  his 
entire  curriculum.  At  the  outset,  he  continued  the  prior  curriculum  for 
upper  class  students.  This  was  less  disruptive  to  the  students' education 
than  the  sweeping  replacement  of  old  methods  with  new  ones  in  the 
midst  of  their  studies.  This  decision  also  allowed  Mies  time  to  study  in 
closer  detail  the  problems  he  had  begun,  while  preparing  the  cur- 
riculum in  New  York  the  previous  winter.  Now,  in  actual  classroom 
situations  and  in  later  discussions  with  his  col  leagues  whom  he  brought 
to  Chicago  with  him,  Peterhans,  Hilberseimer  and  Rodgers,  he  could 
assess  theapplicabilityofthecurriculumand  what,  if  any,  modifications 
ought  to  be  made  in  actual  implementation. 

His  colleagues  offered  a  useful  range  of  experience  against  which  he 
tested  his  thinking.  Walter  Peterhans  was  an  accomplished  artist  and 
had  trained  in  philosophy  as  well.  Ludwig  Hilberseimer  demonstrated 
the  role  of  their  comprehensive  approach,  in  which  courses  in  city 
planning  assumed  both  the  skills  of  execution  and  powers  of  abstrac- 
tion that  formed  the  elements  of  the  school.  Hilberseimer  taught  at  the 
Bauhaus  prior  to  Mies's  becoming  director,  and  he  aided  Mies  in  re- 
structuring the  Bauhaus  curriculum  when  Mies  took  over.  John  Rod- 
gers, an  American  who  graduated  from  Princeton  before  he  studied 
with  Mies  in  Germany,  related  the  abstract  ideas  of  the  curriculum  he 
helped  Mies  prepare  the  previous  winter,  with  his  actual  experience  in 
the  studios.  Overall,  Rodgers  was  responsible  for  the  technical  aspects. 
Peterhans  for  the  abstract,  architectural  and  aesthetic  aspects,  and 
Hilberseimer  for  the  cultural  role  of  the  program. 
Students  during  this  period  included  those  already  admitted,  those 
traditionally  attracted  by  its  location  in  Chicago,  and  a  few  attracted  by 
Mies.  Not  until  after  the  war  did  Mies's  presence,  coupled  with  the 


59 


M  I  E  SS      CURRICULUM      AT 


I  T 


increasing  fame  and  extent  of  his  worK  In  America,  begin  to  have  a 
significant  effect  on  enrollment. 

Possibly  in  his  first  studio  in  the  fall  of  1938,  but  certainly  In  the  spring 
semester  of  1939,  Mies  began  a  pattern  in  his  teaching  that  remained 
until  retirement.  By  giving  students  the  problem  of  a  university  campus, 
the  architecture  studio  became  a  research  laboratory  for  thinking 
about  the  problems  he  confronted  in  his  practice.  As  Armour  moved 
toward  its  merger  with  Lewis  Institute,  the  possibility  of  a  new  campus 
developed  to  the  point  that  at  least  three  architectural  offices  prepared 
preliminary  plans.  Plans  were  prepared  by  Alfred  Alschuler's  firm,  and 
by  Holabird  &  Root. 

Although  many  sites  were  considered,  the  plans  by  Alschuler,  Holabird 
8c  Root  and  by  Mies  were  united  by  their  assumption  of  the  33rd  Street 
campus  of  Armour  as  the  site.  Mies  began  to  study  the  problem  In  his 
fourth  year  studio,  considering  the  Issue  at  a  fairly  abstract  level  by 
selecting  a  real  but  flexible  site  In  Chicago's  Jackson  Park.  From  the 
outset.  Mies  assumed  a  campus  of  many,  fairly  small  buildings.  Al- 
though only  three  of  these  plans  have  been  published,  several  dozen 
plans  were  proposed  In  the  studio."' 

While  this  work  was  going  ahead  In  the  studio,  Mies  also  took  office 
space  near  the  Art  Institute  to  begin  to  study  his  own  thinking  for  the 
33rd  Street  site.  For  his  staff  he  hired  first  John  Rodgers  and  then 
George  Danforth,  at  that  time  a  second  year  architecture  student.  Be- 
cause of  the  secrecy  necessary  for  the  development  of  the  design,  Mies 
was  not  provided  with  a  programming  document  In  which  the  actual 
needs  of  the  school  were  analyzed  and  quantified.  Nevertheless,  he 
developed  a  fairly  extensive  list  of  needs  for  the  campus,  accommodat- 
ing the  needs  for  classrooms  and  laboratories  of  the  existing  depart- 
ments, facilities  for  the  allied  Armour  Research  Foundation,  support 
facilities  and  what  were  from  the  beginning  the  buildings  Mies  called 
■representational,"  the  student  union  and  the  library/administration 
building. 

From  the  abstract.  Imaginary  slteof  the  student  designs,  Mies  moved  to 
one  driven  by  functional  concerns,  followed  by  one  ordered  around 
structure.  When  Lilly  Reich  joined  him  In  the  summer  of  1939,  they 
studied  the  latter  two  approaches  simultaneously  In  order  to  test  and 
understand  their  ideas.  Rodgers  and  Danforth  would  make  drawings  of 
the  Ideas,  usually  based  on  MIes's  sketches.  Atthis  point  the  twenty-four 
foot  module,  later  used  to  set  the  design  more  firmly  Into  Its  site,  had  not 


^^^       1^^^^^^^^ 


60 


M  I  E  SS     CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


Students  Studying  Courtnouse  Problem. 
C-1946.  Courtesy  of  Illinois  Institute  of 
Tecnnology. 

Illinois  Institute  of  Technology  campus 
model  with  I.  to  r.  James  C.  Peebles.  Mies 
van  der  Rohe,  Henry  T.  Heald,  Courtesy 
of  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology. 


Illinois  Institute  of  Technology. 
Preliminary  Scheme.  1939.  Courtesy  of 
Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


Illinois  Institute  of  Technology.  Final  Plan. 
C.1940.  Courtesy  of  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology. 


/>..      .^  .-\- 


been  fixed.  In  studying  what  is  usually  referred  to  as  the  Preliminary 
Plan  and  what,  with  modification  would  be  the  final  plan  simulta- 
neously, one  can  see  the  same  sort  of  abstract,  comparative  study  and 
analysis  that  was  emphasized  in  the  curriculum. 
More  important  than  the  techniques  he  introduced  into  the  curriculum, 
with  the  design  of  the  IIT  Campus,  Mies  completed  a  major  shift  in  his 
thinking,  consolidating  the  method  that  would  dominate  his  American 
career.  This  is  the  use  of  structure  to  order  the  design.  Mies's  funda- 
mental architectural  belief  was  that  his  work  must  incorporate  the 
imperatives  of  the  spirit  of  the  industrial  age  and  give  to  it  an  order  that 
expressed  the  new  conditions  and  provided  a  vocabulary  for  future 
work. 

Architecture  has  long  been  defined  as  the  successful  integration  of 
plan,  structure  and  beauty.  In  his  own  work  Mies  had  explored  prob- 
lems of  each,  but  had  not  determined  for  himself  that  any  one  of  the 
three  elements  was  in  some  way  superior  to  the  others.  In  many  of  his 
works  he  had  achieved  a  successful  solution  of  two  of  the  elements 
(form  and  structure  in  the  Glass  Skyscraper  Projects  and  the  Barcelona 
Pavilion,  form  and  plan  in  the  Brick  Country  l-House  Project  and  the 


Tugendhat  House)  In  the  1930's,  with  the  series  of  Court  House  Proj- 
ects, he  incorporated  all  three  elements.  Nonetheless,  he  remained 
disturbed  by  the  potential  for  work  to  seem  arbitrary  or  without  suffi- 
cient rational  and  logical  power.  He  desired  to  achieve  something  that 
was  not  only  new  and  different,  but  also  necessary,  unavoidable  and 
correct.  This,  he  believed,  gave  the  new  age  its  special  character. 
When  he  began  the  IIT  project,  he  had  determined  that  form  was  not 
sufficiently  reasonable  to  use  as  the  organizing  element.  In  the  IIT 
projects,  one,  with  the  auditoriums  projecting  into  the  central  space, 
was  driven  by  the  Idea  of  the  expression  of  function  as  the  organizing 
element,  while  with  the  other  the  structure  was  the  central  organizing 
device.  While  plan  and  beauty,  he  believed,  were  liable  to  arbitrary, 
even  erratic  choices  and  solutions,  structure  was  clear,  easily  compre- 
hended and  able  to  order  and  accommodate  the  other  factors  with  ease. 
Structure  was  a  constant  inner  check  which  rewarded  reason  and 
punished  willfulness.  In  rejecting  the  plan  based  solution,  Mies  called  it 
too'Tomantic.""^  With  the  plan  founded  on  structure,  Mies  advanced  his 
thinking  about  space,  the  most  intangible  and  abstract  of  architectural 
elements,  and  structure,  the  most  tangible  and  presumably  most  ra- 
tional of  elements,  into  a  position  of  astringent  reciprocity. 
As  students  enrolled  at  IIT  prior  to  his  arrival  graduated,  Mies  com- 
pleted the  transition  to  his  curriculum.  During  this  period  he  retained 
theserviceof  some  of  the  earlier  faculty,  especially  Alfred  Krehbiel  who 
taught  life  drawing,  Alfred  Mell,  an  architect,  and  Charles  Dornbusch, 
an  architect  at  Skidmore,  Owings,  &  Merrill,  who  was  interested  in 
modern  architecture  and,  as  Mell,  had  a  good  rapport  with  many  of  the 
students.  As  enrollment  picked  up  and  Mies  was  able  to  teach  his 
curriculum  at  all  levels,  he  moved  Mell  from  first  year  to  construction 
and  hired  one  of  his  earliest  graduates,  George  Danforth,  to  conduct  the 
first  year. 

The  program  was  not  universally  accepted.  Heald's  files  contain  a  few 
letters  from  students  or  alumni  parents  which  question  the  wisdom  of 
the  new  curriculum.  Because  they  were  couched  in  the  terms  of  xeno- 
phobic a  1 1- Americanism,  the  value  of  their  criticism  of  the  curriculum  Is 
somewhat  limited.  Already,  though,  there  is  the  perception  that  the 
curriculum  expressed  a  unified  point  of  view  so  strong  that  other  op- 
tions were  not  allowed.  Students  were  not  allowed  to  express  them- 
selves or  develop  their  own  approaches.  The  school  sought  to  develop 
in  them  a  method  by  which  they  could  study  a  problem  in  a  deliberate 


61 


M  i  E  S'S      CURRICULUM      AT      IIT 


and  rational  manner  through  which  they  could  arrive  at  an  appropriate 
solution.  At  this  point  in  the  development  of  the  program  Mies's  reputa- 
tion was  not  yet  so  great  that  his  authority  pushed  criticism  aside. 
Already,  the  assumption  of  the  curriculum  was  that  the  students  must 
first  master  its  ideas  before  challenging  them.  Mies  and  his  colleagues 
were  confident  in  the  importance  of  their  ideas  and  had  come  to  them 
only  after  long  reflection.  They  assumed  the  roles  of  masters  from 
whom  apprentices  sought  instruction  at  the  rate  and  amount  the 
teacher  deemed  correct.  Mies  rejected  the  American  tradition  of  the 
university  as  a  testing  ground  for  the  ideas  of  students.  He  did  not 
believe  that  the  students  could  possibly  be  in  a  position  to  doubt  and 
criticize  until  they  had  mastered  for  themselves  the  logic  of  the  method 
and  system  he  proposed.  The  positive  resultof  this  would  be  students  of 
great  intellectual  and  artistic  drive  and  thoroughness,  able  to  solve  all 
the  aspects  of  very  complex  problems.  The  negative  aspect  would  be 
students  cowed  by  the  authority  of  the  teachers  who  would  unreflect- 
ingly repeat  the  solutions  learned  as  principles  in  school."  Mies's  belief 
that  most  of  the  students  would  be  in  the  latter  position,  reinforced  his 
attitude  that  he  should  teach  sound  solutions  to  those  who  could  not 
master  and  transform  the  principles,  while  at  the  same  time  presenting 
to  the  best  students  an  understanding  of  how  the  principles  of  a  solution 
could  be  abstracted. 

As  most  schools  during  the  war.  IIT  saw  a  decline  in  enrollment  and  a 
reduction  In  the  size  of  the  staff  because  of  military  service.  Mies, 
Hilberselmer  and  Peterhans  accelerated  the  curriculum,  as  teachers 
throughout  the  country  also  did,  and  found  themselves  teaching  virtu- 
ally all  the  courses.  They  became  involved  with  additional  courses 
designed  to  enhance  the  war  effort,  chief  among  them  instruction  in 
camouflage  and  aerial  reconnaissance.  Since  the  war  forced  Mies  to 
study  the  curriculum  in  an  abbreviated  form,  after  the  war  he  acceler- 
ated an  extension  of  the  curriculum  from  four  to  five  years.  He  had 
learned  that  the  kind  of  time  needed  for  reflecting  on  the  abstract 
problems  brought  about  by  the  expanded  and  then  contracted  cur- 
riculum was  very  great  and  needed  to  be  achieved  at  a  slow  pace.  One's 
consideration  of  alternatives  could  not  be  rushed. 
The  opportunity  to  expand  the  curriculum,  begun  as  a  study  in  his  first 
years  at  IIT,  was  not  reached  until  after  the  war.  In  early  1940  Mies  had 
written  all  undergraduate  architectural  school  members  of  the  Asso- 
ciation of  Collegiate  Schools  of  Architecture  for  their  opinion  on  the  five 


year  curriculum.  He  received  the  nearly  unanimous  opinion  that  the  five 
year  curriculum  was  necessary,  and  where  implemented,  was  a  distinct 
improvement  in  the  prior  four  year  program.  In  his  letter  to  the  admin- 
istration on  these  findings  he  had  concluded 

If  Armour  were  to  change  to  a  five  year  program  we  thInK  the  fifth  year  should  be 
added  at  the  end  of  the  curriculum  to  give  the  students  further  time  to  develop 
their  abilities  by  applying  the  fundamentals,  which  we  feel  are  pretty  well 
covered  In  the  first  three  years  of  the  present  curriculum,  on  more  advanced 
problems  In  Architecture. 

We  also  think  courses  should  be  Introduced  or  substituted  throughout  the  cur- 
riculum to  give  the  students  a  broader  cultural  background  than  they  now 
possess  upon  graduation."" 

When  the  curriculum  was  expanded  to  five  years  in  1946,  Mies's  two 
key  points  from  1940  were  incorporated.  Humanities,  language,  social 
science  and  science  courses  and  electlves  were  incorporated  into  the 
first  four  years,  while  the  fifth  year  devoted  60%  of  the  student's  time  to 
architectural  studio.  Although  a  formal  thesis  was  never  introduced, 
this  great  emphasis  on  the  study  of  one  problem  provided  all  students 
the  opportunity  to  pull  together  the  threads  of  the  curriculum  and 
construct  a  meaningful  fabric.  The  students  knew  how  to  make  a 
building  and  now  could  consider  what  sort  of  building  they  ought  to 
make  in  light  of  both  their  architectural  method  and  social  philosophy. 
The  final  presentation  of  the  problem  in  terms  of  model  and  drawings, 
finished  as  well  as  possible,  might  be  considered  equivalent  to  the 
journeyman's  piece  in  a  traditional  master/apprentice  structure. 
In  addition  to  the  development  of  the  five  year  curriculum,  the  school 
began  to  attract  a  number  of  older  students,  mostly  veterans  whose 
education  had  been  interrupted  by  the  war.  Their  greater  seriousness  of 
purpose  and  desire  to  form  lasting  values  following  the  war  prepared 
them  to  accept  the  earnest  desire  of  Mies  and  his  colleagues  to  deter- 
mine and  achieve  an  architecture  for  changed  conditions.  Mies  pro- 
vided students  with  a  sense  of  belief  and  purpose  after  the  war  in  large 
part  because  he  remembered  the  sense  of  drift  following  World  War  I. 
He  became  for  his  American  students  the  mentor  he  had  not  found  in 
Germany  in  1919.  He  had  the  further  attraction  of  offering  principles 
rooted  in  an  authentic  tradition,  while  offering  solutions  based  on  such 
principles  reflecting  the  profound  changes  of  the  previous  decades  of 
war  and  depression. 
Simultaneously,  Mies's  practice  began  to  expand.  At  first,  he  concen- 


62 


M  I  E  SS      CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


Fifth  year  class  with  instructors  Daniel 
Brenner  (left  foreground)  and  A,  James 
Speyer  (at  Brenner's  left).  1949.  Courtesy 
of  L.  J.  Harrison. 


trated  on  the  new  main  campus  builcdings  at  NT,  while  also  beginning  to 
stu<dy  a  number  of  projects.  Soon,  though,  his  practice,  especially 
through  the  developer  Herbert  Greenwald,  grew.  As  the  interest  of  this 
work  spread  and  the  difficulty  of  building  the  NT  campus  Increased, 
Mies  spent  less  time  at  school.  He  taught  only  In  the  graduate  program. 
As  his  practice,  fame  and  reputation  Increased,  he  was  Increasingly 
viewed  as  unapproachable.  Some  of  his  colleagues  at  ilT  began  to 
protect  him  from  students  and  as  a  result  he  became  detached  from  the 
day  to  day  life  of  the  school. 

With  the  graduate  students,  many  of  whom  were  fairly  sophisticated 
and  had  been  attracted  by  the  opportunity  to  study  with  Mies,  there  was 
the  opportunity  to  study  problems  In  depth  and  complexity.  Problems 
of  space,  structure,  scale  and  the  expression  of  material  were  fre- 
quently addressed.  In  addition,  many  graduate  students  developed 
these  architectural  studies  In  the  context  of  analyzing  a  social  problem 
as  well.  At  first  these  were  frequently  complexes  of  many  buildings, 
such  as  a  university  campus,  or  relevant  problems,  such  as  the  nature  of 
the  church  In  modern  times.  The  question  of  value  was  Implicit  even  in 
studiesof  the  effect  of  scale,  while  explicit  In  such  studies  as  that  for  the 
modern  church. 


While  the  graduate  program  developed  a  series  of  topics  for  study  and 
exploration,  the  undergraduate  program,  in  part  because  of  the  addi- 
tion of  the  fifth  year,  began  to  suffer  from  its  success.  As  the  various 
courses  were  necessarily  less  experimental  as  faculty  became  more 
familiar  with  what  would  and  would  not  work,  they  also  tended  to 
become  more  matter  of  fact,  settled  and  less  questioned.  Although  the 
virtue  and  attraction  of  the  school  lay  not  only  In  its  newness,  butalso  in 
Its  having  a  clear  point  of  view,  something  attractive  to  students,  the 
faculty  were  not  so  critical  of  their  own  Ideas,  seeking  to  discover 
means  to  make  the  program  stronger. 

With  the  rise  in  enrollment  there  was  a  need  for  new  faculty.  Among 
them  was  A.  James  Speyer,  who  in  a  letter  to  Mies  provides  an  Insight  to 
the  attractiveness  of  the  curriculum,  while  containing  a  sense  of  the 
potential  for  problemsof  the  future.  Writing  from  Athens,  where  he  was 
a  Fulbrlght  exchange  professor,  Speyer  reported  that  his  Greek  col- 
leagues had  asked  him  to  remain  another  year,  and  asked  Mies  for  his 
support  with  the  administration: 

The  school  is  a  goo(J  one;  It  is  much  better  than  the  French  equivalents.  Actually, 
it  is  base(J  on  German  educational  systems,  which  because  of  the  general  re- 
lationship to  your  concepts,  may  be  why  I  find  it  more  coherent  than  the  schools 
of  Italy  and  France.  Most  of  the  Professors  were  educated  in  Germany,  and  the 
discipline  is  strong,  and  the  work  hard.  The  students  are  like  blotters.  They  are 
astonished  at  our  way  of  teaching  and  criticizing  them  1 1  say  "our"  in  the  sense  of 
yours,  and  our  way  of  teaching  at  Illinois  Tech.),  and  they  have  shown  an 
eagerness,  enthusiasm,  and  comprehension  which  is  very  encouraging.  I  am 
chiefly  preoccupied  with  the  4th  and  5th  year  students,  a  course  which  takes  the 
same  area  as  mine  and  Dan  Brenner's  at  home,  and  I  have  almost  carte  blanche 
to  develop  the  course  now.  The  faculty  are  very  cooperative. 
I  see,  however,  and  there  is  no  question  in  my  mind  at  all,  that  there  is  no 
comparison  between  a  school  where  there  are  lacks  In  coordination  of  the  parts, 
and  a  school  which  is  completely  unified  in  idea  such  as  ours.  (I  certainly  do  not 
say  this  as  flattery;  it  is  absolutely  clear.  I  have  known  it  for  a  long  time,  but  the 
confirmation  is  always  good). 

What  the  students  iand  the  architects)  here  need  is  an  idea  of  what  today's 
architecture  should  be,  fundamentally.  The  structural  base  of  form  is  a  thought 
by  no  means  understood.  "Modern"  architecture,  here  as  most  places,  swims 
along  in  terms  of  surface  treatment,  and  it  is  exciting  to  see  how  the  students 
react  to  an  emphasis  on  the  structural  derivation  of  architecture.  Amazingly,  it  is 
a  new  thing  for  them.''^ 

Daniel  Brenner,  to  whom  Speyer  had  referred,  was  one  of  MIess  most 
distinguished  students,  best  known  for  the  very  beautiful  collage  of  a 


63 


MIES'S     CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


concert  hall  in  Albert  Kahn's  Martin  Aircraft  Factory.  When  he  joined 
the  faculty  at  IIT,  he  taught  the  architecture  studios  in  fourth  and  fifth 
year.  In  these  courses  he  conducted  studies  of  space,  as  well  as  the 
integration  of  the  fundamentals  taught  in  the  first  three  years,  merged 
with  the  abstract  problems  also  studied  in  those  years,  into  the  explora- 
tion of  the  solution  to  actual  building  problems. 

George  Danforth  rejoined  the  faculty  in  this  period.  Teaching  in  all  the 
years  of  the  curriculum,  Mies  prepared  him  to  direct  a  school  of  archi- 
tecture by  making  sure  that  he  had  experience  of  the  character  of  each 
of  the  years  of  the  program. 

Also  joining  the  faculty  during  the  post  war  years  was  Alfred  Caldwell,  a 
person  who  was  to  emerge  as  a  force  in  the  school  equivalent  to  Mies 
and  Hilberseimer.  Caldwell  had  entered  the  school  to  take  a  degree  in 
city  planning  under  Hilberseimer.  His  thesis,  "The  City  in  the  Land- 
scape: a  Preface  for  Planning,"  had  impressed  Hilberseimer  tremen- 
dously and  a  place  on  the  faculty  followed.  Caldwell  integrated  the  two 
ends  of  the  spectrum.  He  insisted  on  great  technical  proficiency  and 
attention  to  detail  in  his  courses  in  materials  and  construction,  and  he 
emphasized  the  broad  cultural  impact  of  architecture  in  his  course  in 
Architectural  History,  in  which  the  importance  of  the  ethical  basis  of 
action  and  the  assumption  of  the  inevitable  tragedy  of  the  misunder- 
stood romantic  genius  were  merged.  The  heroic  courage  of  the  ar- 
chitect willing  to  act  despite  clear  evidence  of  his  necessary  defeat 
tinged  all  of  Caldwell's  lectures.  Peterhans  also  offered  lectures  in 
history,  remarking  to  students  who  asked  about  the  difference  between 
his  and  Caldwell's  approach,  that  his  students  would  understand  what 
he  had  been  discussing  in  the  future.  Where  Peterhans  sought  to  dis- 
cern the  processes  of  history  so  that  students  could  then  have  com- 
prehension and  possible  affect  on  its  future  course,  Caldwell  assumed  a 
more  mythic  structure  in  which  the  individual  was  necessarily  opposed 
to  the  inevitable  destructive  forces  of  time. 

When  Mies  had  first  developed  his  plans  for  IIT  he  did  not  give  special 
treatment  to  the  plans  for  the  architecture  building.  It  occupied  a  posi- 
tion at  the  periphery  of  the  main  plan  as  part  of  the  ensemble  that 
framed  the  major  buildings  on  the  academic  campus,  the  library  and 
administration  building  and  the  student  union.  In  the  late  1940's  it  be- 
came increasingly  difficult  to  undertake  these  buildings  and  Mies  began 
to  think  about  the  architecture  building  in  representational  terms.  It 
came  to  be  not  only  the  place  where  students  would  study  architecture. 


it  became  an  illustration  of  his  belief  In  the  necessity  to  study  architec- 
ture as  an  extremely  meaningful  activity.  At  the  dedication  of  this 
building,  Mies  had  a  gold  key  made  to  give  to  the  President  of  IIT,  John 
Rettaliata.  In  his  remarks  at  that  occasion  he  said, 

But  gold  is  not  only  bright.  It  has  other  more  hidden  qualities.  I  am  thinking  of  its 
purity  and  Its  durability.  Properties  which  very  well  could  symbolize  the  char- 
acter of  the  work  which  we  hope  will  be  performed  in  this  building. 
Let  this  building  be  the  home  of  ideas  and  adventures.  Real  Ideas.  Ideas  based  on 
reason.  Ideas  about  facts. 

Then  the  building  will  be  of  great  service  to  our  students  and  in  the  end  a  real 
contribution  to  our  civilization. 

We  know  that  will  not  be  easy.  Noble  things  are  never  easy.  Experience  teaches 
us  that  they  are  as  difficult  as  they  are  rare.'^ 

Since  Mies  designed  S.  R.  Crown  Hall  in  the  time  when  his  retirement 
from  active  teaching  approached,  it  should  be  seen  that  the  building 
was  in  part  the  curriculum  raised  to  three  dimensions.  The  building  is  a 
one  room  school  house,  in  which  the  students  are  encouraged  and 
expected  to  observe  the  lessons  of  the  other  classes.  Thus  a  first  year 
student  might  see  the  importance  of  line  weight  to  expressing  ideas  in  a 
very  abstract  study  in  a  fourth  year  studio,  while  a  fifth  year  student 


Alfred  Caldwell  with  class  in  S.  R,  Crown 
Hall.  C.1956.  Courtesy  of  Illinois  Institute 
of  Technology. 


64 


M  I  E  SS      CURRICULUM      AT      IIT 


Walter  Peterhans.  1949^  Courtesy  of  L.  J. 
Harrison. 


might  see  again  the  necessity  of  seeing  clearly  In  a  second  year  visual 
training  exercise  being  considered  publicly.  In  addition  to  the  school's 
role  of  presenting  to  the  students  the  steps  and  Ideas  of  the  curriculum, 
the  physical  openness  of  S,  R.  Crown  Hall  served  also  to  invite  the 
public  in  to  seethe  work.  The  claims  of  the  school  and  Its  curriculum  to 
rationality  and  applicability  to  the  problemsof  modern  society  required 
that  it  present  its  ideas  to  the  public  so  that  they  might  be  assessed. 
In  addition  to  the  abstract  nature  of  the  building's  teaching  the  point  of 
view  of  the  school,  there  was  also  the  demonstration  by  the  building 
itself  of  what  architecture  might  achieve.  The  parts  of  the  building  are 
very  clear.  One  may  study  the  window  frames  and  see  the  manner  and 
the  reasons  for  assembling  their  elements  as  they  are.  One  may  study 
the  glass  and  understand  the  wide  spectrum  of  expressive  possibilities 
so  seemingly  clear  a  material  might  have.  One  may  study  the  space, 
noting  itsquality  and  definition  and  then  study  its  relation  to  the  space  of 
the  surrounding  campus.  One  may  study  its  light  and  see  the  ways  in 
whichtheglass  itself  transforms  the  membrane  that  defines  Insidefrom 
outside  and  gives  each  an  appropriate  expression.  When  the  setting  or 
rising  sun  transforms  the  space  into  a  reliquary  of  tinted  light,  or  when 
the  building  in  darkness  is  a  glowing  vessel  of  artificial  light,  students 
and  passersby  experience  the  language  of  architecture  as  epic  poetry. 
What  the  student  sees  Is  a  demonstration  of  the  range  of  the  curriculum, 
illustrated  by  oneof  Mies's  favorite  aphorisms  that  "Architecture  begins 
when  two  bricks  are  brought  together,  carefully."  That  these  two  poles 
of  the  architectural  search  were  important  are  suggested  by  two  lines 
of  Baudelaire  that  Mies  noted  in  a  letter,  after  having  used  them  in 
conversation: 

Construction,  the  framework,  so  to  speak,  Isthesurest  guarantee  of  the  mysteri- 
ous life  of  the  works  of  the  mind. 
Everything  that  is  beautiful  and  noble  is  the  result  of  reason  and  calculation.'" 

Mies  expressed  this  concept  in  another  manner  when  he  gave  a  talk  to 
students  at  IIT  In  the  mid  1950's  on  the  design  of  the  campus.  He 
concluded  his  remarks  by  arguing  that  the  campus, 

...  is  radical  and  conservative  at  once.  It  is  radical  in  accepting  the  driving  and 
sustaining  forces  of  our  time  ....  As  it  is  not  only  concerned  with  a  purpose  but 
also  with  a  meaning,  as  it  is  not  only  concerned  with  a  function  but  also  with  an 
expression.  It  is  conservative  as  it  is  based  on  the  eternal  laws  of  architecture: 

ORDER.  SPACE  and   PROPORTION." 


In  the  1950's  two  external  events  dramatically  affected  the  school.  In 
1950,  IIT  merged  with  the  Institute  of  Design.  ID  was  the  heir  of  the 
Groplus  Bauhaus.  Founded  in  Chicago  as  The  New  Bauhaus  by  a 
Gropius  protege.  Laszio  Moholy  Nagy,  in  1937,  it  changed  its  name  to 
the  Institute  of  Design  in  1938.  The  school  struggled  until  after  the  war 
when  its  enrollment  expanded  dramatically.  Following  Moholy's  death 
in  1946,  the  school  then  secured  as  Its  director  Serge  Chermayeff,  who 
negotiatedthemergerof  ID  with  IIT.  Mies  and  his  faculty  unsuccessfully 
opposed  the  merger  and  Chermayeff.  ID  was  administratively  a  de- 
partment In  the  College  of  Liberal  Arts  at  IIT,  just  as  Mies's  school  was 
the  Architecture  Department  In  the  College  of  Engineering. 
In  the  early  1950's,  however,  it  was  proposed  that  ID  and  the  Architec- 
ture Department  be  joined  in  a  separate  College  of  Architecture  and 
Design.  While  this  made  sense  to  the  administration  at  IIT,  the  funda- 
mental difference  In  attitude  between  ID  and  Mies's  curriculum  was  not 
understood  by  them,  or  if  understood,  thought  to  be  inconsequential. 
Both  Chermayeff  at  ID  and  faculty  in  the  architecture  department  re- 
ported their  Inability  to  make  clear  the  philosophical  differences  of  the 
two  programs  to  the  central  administration. 

As  their  proposal  for  the  Dean  of  such  a  merged  college,  Walter 
Gropius,  who  was  an  advisor  to  the  ID  from  the  time  of  Moholy  until  his 
death,  and  Chermayeff  proposed  two  individuals,  both  trained  under 
Gropius  at  the  Harvard  Graduate  School  of  Design,  Leonard  Currie, 
later  a  professor  of  architecture  at  the  University  of  Illinois  in  Chicago, 
and  Paul  Rudolph,  later  the  Dean  at  the  Yale  School  of  Architecture. 
Fortheir  part,  the  architecture  faculty  proposed  two  alternatives.  At  the 
outset,  it  was  clear  that  Mies  was  not  himself  In  a  position  to  be  Dean. 
However,  he  wished  to  remain  as  Director  ofthe  Architecture  program. 
If  this  were  followed,  and  there  were  to  be  a  separate  Dean,  the  archi- 
tecture faculty  recommended  Walter  Peterhans,  one  of  their  col- 
leagues, to  be  Dean.  As  a  photographer  who  had  himself  taught  at  the 
Bauhaus,  it  was  argued  that  he  could  successfully  bridge  the  differ- 
ences between  the  two  programs.  If  it  was  desired  by  the  administration 
to  have  a  combined  Dean  of  thecollegeand  Directorof  the  Architecture 
Department,  the  faculty  then  recommended  that  George  Danforth,  then 
head  of  the  architecture  program  at  Western  Reserve  University  in 
Cleveland,  be  recalled. 

The  need  for  Mies's  successor  had  been  considered  at  least  from  the 
early  1950's,  for  he  was  65  in  1951,  his  arthritis  became  increasingly 


65 


M  I  E  SS      CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


severe  in  the  decade  and  his  professional  practice  continued  to  grow. 
Mies  did  not  take  a  leading  hand  in  finding  his  successor,  probably 
because  he  did  not  wish  to  shape  too  much  the  choices  of  that  person.  In 
1953  Mies  had  said  of  Walter  Gropius  on  the  occasion  of  his  70th 
birthday,  that. 

The  Bauhaus  was  not  an  institution  with  a  clear  program  —  it  was  an  idea  . .  ,  The 
fact  that  it  was  an  idea,  I  think,  is  the  cause  of  this  enormous  influence  the 
Bauhaus  had  on  any  progressive  school  around  the  globe.  You  cannot  do  that 
with  organization,  you  cannot  do  that  with  propaganda.  Only  an  idea  spreads  so 
far." 

While  Mies  believed  that  a  school  was  even  better  if  there  were  both  a 
clear  program  and  clear  ideas,  and  that  it  was  hard  to  have  one  without 
the  other,  still  he  recognized  the  importance  of  the  idea.  Later  in  the 
decade,  when  he  had  retired  from  IIT,  he  wrote  in  response  to  a  query 
on  how  to  establish  a  good  school  of  architecture, 

. .  .you  must  first  know  what  kind  of  school  you  want.  This  decision  in  itself  will 
determine  the  quality  of  your  school.  Your  faculty  should  be  as  good  as  possible 
to  put  over  this  direction,  but  the  finest  group  of  talented  men  pushing  In  the 
wrong  direction  or  in  different  directions  means  not  only  nothing,  but  chaos. 
Most  architectural  schools  today  are  suffering  from  this  lack  of  direction  —  not 
from  a  lack  of  enthusiasm,  nor  from  the  lack  of  talent. 

If  we  could  only  show  the  schools  and  faculties  that  individuality  is  inevitable  and 
that  it,  too,  has  its  natural  place.  To  try  to  express  individuality  in  architecture  is  a 
complete  misunderstanding  of  the  problem,  and  today  most  of  our  schools 
either  intentionally  or  unintentionally  let  their  students  leave  with  the  idea  that  to 
do  a  good  building  means  a  different  building,  and  they  are  not  different  —  they 
are  Just  bad. 

I  believe  that  in  buildings  you  must  deal  with  construction  directly.  You  must, 
therefore,  understand  construction.  When  you  refine  this  structure  and  when  it 
becomes  an  expression  of  the  essence  of  our  time,  it  will  then  and  only  then 
become  architecture.  Every  building  has  its  position  in  a  strata  —  every  building 
is  not  a  cathedral.  These  are  facts  which  should  be  understood  and  taught.  It 
takes  discipline  to  restrain  one's  self.  I  have  many  times  thought  this  or  that 
would  be  a  wonderful  idea,  only  to  overrule  this  impulse  by  a  method  of  working 
and  thinking,  if  our  schools  could  get  to  the  root  of  the  problem  and  develop 
within  the  student  a  clear  method  of  working,  we  would  have  then  given  him  a 
worthwhile  five  years. 

Five  years  is  a  very  short  time  when  you  remember  that  in  most  cases  these  are 
the  most  formative  years  to  the  architect.  At  least  two  things  should  have  been 
accomplished:  Mastery  of  the  tools  of  his  profession,  and  development  of  a  clear 
direction.  Now  it  Is  quite  impossible  to  accomplish  the  latter  when  the  school 
itself  is  not  clear. 


You  have,  in  fact,  two  possibilities:  ( 1 )  To  set  up  a  school  curriculum  and  find  a 
man  who  would  best  carry  this  out,  or  (2)  find  a  man  who  has  a  clear  Idea  and  let 
him  have  a  free  hand  In  setting  the  curriculum  up  In  the  school.  1  have  never  seen 
the  first  idea  really  work  out  as  a  strong  school.  The  second  Idea  has  worked 
several  times." 

Following  Mies's  retirement,  the  school  was  directed  by  George  Dan- 
forth.  After  his  tenure,  the  College  of  Architecture,  Planning  and  Design 
was  formally  implemented  in  1975,  with  James  Freed  as  Dean.  Institu- 
tionalizing an  idea  is  difficult,  and  the  success  at  IIT  has  been  mixed. 
Many  factors  contributed  to  the  difficulty:  personal  as  well  as  institu- 
tional. Yet  these  difficulties  are  not  appreciably  different  from  similar 
problems  in  any  academic  bureaucracy.  For  a  time  these  were  over- 
come by  the  power  of  the  initial  thinking  of  Mies  and  his  colleagues. 
However,  as  Mies  had,  they  too  left.  Peterhans  died  during  a  trip  to 
Germany  in  1960,  and  Hilberseimer  retired  from  teaching  in  1967. 
When  the  founding  generation  was  replaced  by  its  students,  there 
emerged  the  problem  of  maintaining  the  excitement  of  the  initial  explo- 
ration while  respecting  the  importance  of  their  insights.  The  problem 
for  the  school  was  to  honor  the  form  and  keep  vigorous  the  idea.  The 
danger  appeared  in  the  belief  that  the  form  might  be  so  clear  that  the 
idea  was  self  evidently  Implicit.  The  difficulty  for  the  faculty  who  taught 
after  Mies  is  that  they  had  learned  what  they  had  been  taught,  but  they 
had  not  taught  themselves  how  to  learn. 

It  has  been  well  known  that  Mies  read  widely  in  philosophy,  religion  and 
the  sciences.  In  speaking  to  students  once  he  described  the  process  by 
which  he  came  to  hold  his  belief  in  the  power  of  reason: 

Little  by  I  ittle  one  thought  Is  put  to  another.  One  is  doubtful  of  a  thousand  things  in 
this  process  but  by  experience  and  logic  you  may  build  upon  these  thoughts, 
until  you  achieve  a  real  conviction  and  In  the  end  you  have  such  a  strong 
conviction  that  no  one  or  anything  In  the  world  could  change  it.  That  is  the  way  it 
has  to  be.  1  don't  know  if  I  told  you  about  the  time  I  had  3,000  books  in  Germany.  1 
spent  a  fortune  to  buy  these  books  and  i  spent  a  fortune  to  read  them,  l  brought 
300  books  with  me  to  America  and  I  can  now  send  270  books  back  and  l  would 
lose  nothing.  But  I  would  not  have  these  30  left  If  I  would  not  have  read  the 
3,000.^' 

Among  the  reasons  he  gave  his  personal  library  to  the  University  of 
Illinois,  Chicago,  was  to  prevent  his  successors  the  ready  access  the  IIT 
library  might  have  provided  to  the  300  books  Mies  brought  to  America 
and  the  equal  number  he  acquired  here.  The  selection  of  3000  books 
which  one  might,  in  a  lifetime,  winnow  to  30,  must  be  identified  by  the 


66 


MIES'S     CURRICULUM      AT      NT 


individual,  not  determined  by  someone  else.  Just  as  the  curriculum 
sought  to  teach  what  could  be  taught  and  point  to  what  one  should 
consider  learning,  Mies  assumed  that  his  successors  would  do  their 
own  exploring.  Yet  the  strength  of  his  own  convictions,  and  the  persua- 
siveness of  his  reasoned  conclusions,  have  made  it  difficult  for  them  to 
determine  the  means  by  which  they  can  direct  the  school.  Clearly  the 
legacy  is  very  great,  but  its  weight  of  authority  is  also  a  burden  which 
many  are  unable  to  carry. 

In  1949,  at  the  request  of  Nikolaus  Pevsner,  who  was  editing  a  special 
issue  of  The  Architectural  Review  on  architectural  education,  Mies 
wrote: 

An  architectural  curriculum  Is  a  means  of  training  and  education.  It  is  not  an  end 
In  itself,  but  depends  on  and  serves  a  philosophy.  The  absence  of  a  philosophy  is 
not  a  virtue.  It  Is  a  weakness.  A  curriculum  without  a  philosophy  is  not  broad  and 
wide,  not  even  neutral,  but  nebulous. 

At  the  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology  we  are  concerned,  among  other  things, 
with  the  idea  of  structure,  structure  as  an  architectural  concept.  We  do  not 
design  buildings,  we  construct  them,  develop  them.  We  are  for  this  reason 
concerned  with  the  right  use  of  materials,  clear  construction,  and  its  proper 
expression. 

Since  a  building  is  a  work  to  be  done  and  not  a  notion  to  be  understood,  we 
believe  that  a  method  of  work,  a  way  of  doing,  should  be  the  essence  of  ar- 
chitectural education." 

Implicit  in  this  assertion  of  the  need  for  clear  philosophical  thinking  is 
Mies's  belief  in  the  appropriate.  Whether  in  terms  of  material,  scale, 
proportion  or  expression,  Mies  constantly  sought  to  teach  the  impor- 
tance of  understanding  the  relation  of  the  various  elements  of  either  a 
building  or  the  building's  place  in  the  community. 
In  recent  years,  as  his  successors  struggle  to  understand  and  teach  the 
curriculum  in  a  changed  environment,  there  has  emerged  the  problem 
of  distinguishing  the  principle  and  the  solution.  When  Mies  taught,  this 
analysis  proposes,  his  general  principle  was  perfectly  matched  by  the 
actual  solution  to  the  problem:  material,  technique,  expression  and  idea 
were  all  located  at  the  leading  edge  of  architecture.  Today,  when  the 
general  principles  are  advanced  in  studio,  they  are  illustrated  with  the 
same  solutions  of  two  generations  ago.  Such  solutions  are  no  longer  at 
the  leading  edge,  and  that  distance  then  calls  into  question  the  validity  of 
the  principle  itself.  Rather  than  faculty  challenging  the  students,  stu- 
dents now  challenge  the  faculty.  Despite  the  acknowledgement  that 
what  he  would  do  was  often  a  surprise,  many  faculty  continue  to 


consider  what  Mies  would  have  done  today.  When  the  school  deter- 
mines the  means  to  solve  this  problem,  it  may  be  able  to  reclaim  its 
place  at  the  pinnacle  of  architectural  thought.  It  has  been  the  site  of  a 
great  and  influential  revolution  in  architectural  education,  thought  and 
practice.  Now  it  must  learn  the  lessons  it  has  taught  so  well,  to  teach 
them  to  new  generations  of  students,  architects  and  society. 

NOTES 

1  Burton  Buchhauser  to  Henry  Heald.  12  July  1935,  Heald  Papers,  NT  Archives.  (IIT). 

2  Wlllard  Hotchkiss  to  John  HolaDIrd,  10  January  1936.  Heald  Papers,  IIT, 

3  Henry  Heald,  Memo  for  Advisory  Committee  for  Department  of  Architecture,  nd,  Heald 
Papers,  IIT. 

4  Paul  Cret  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Ralph  Walker  and  Ely  Jacques  Kahn  in  New 
York.  William  Ralph  Emerson  at  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  and  Carroll 
Meeks  at  Columbia. 

5  Minutes  of  the  Advisory  Committee  for  Department  of  Architecture,  Armour  Institute  of 
Technology,  meeting  of  12  February  1936,  IIT  Archives,  Richard  Neutra.  Charles  Dorn- 
busch,  Noel  Flint,  Donald  Nelson,  Louis  Skldmore.  Harry  Bleg.  Perclval  Goodman, 
Wallace  Harrison.  James  Mackenzie.  Otto  Teegan,  Henry  Richardson  Shepley, 
Shephard  Vogelgesang,  Arthur  Deam.  and  John  Howard  Raferty  were  the  young  men 
listed. 

6  John  Holabird  to  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  20  March  1936,  Mies  Archive.  Library  of  Congress. 
(LCI. 

7  On  the  same  day,  12  May  1936.  Earl  Reed  had  reported  to  Dean  Heald  on  his  recent 
attendance  at  the  Association  of  Collegiate  Schools  of  Architecture  meeting  In 
Richmond.  Virginia.  Attempting  to  make  clear  his  attitudes,  he  recorded  making  "many 
discreet  inquiries  regarding  possible  schemes  of  reorganization  of  our  Department  and 
found  everyone,  In  view  of  the  disastrous  Columbia  experience,  exceedingly  shy  of  a 
Swedish  or  German  connection  .  .  ."  following  shortly  that  "On  the  other  hand  you  are 
well  aware  how  easy  it  would  be  to  secure  the  Illinois  man  . .  ."  meaning  Arthur  Deam. 
Reed  to  Heald,  Heald  Papers.  IIT. 

8  Rona  Roob.  "1936;  The  Museum  Selects  an  Architect,  Excerpts  from  the  Barr  Papers  of 
The  Museum  of  Modern  Art,"  Archives  of  American  Art  Journai.  Vol  23.  21.  1983,  pp. 
22-30. 

9  Mies  van  der  Rohe  to  Wlllard  Hotchkiss,  20  June  1936.  Hotchkiss  Papers,  Architecture. 
IIT, 

10  Mies  van  der  Rohe  to  John  Holabird,  22  June  1936.  Hotchkiss  Papers,  Architecture.  IIT. 

1 1  Henry  Heald  to  Wlllard  Hotchkiss.  26  June  1936.  Hotchkiss  Papers.  Architecture,  IIT. 

12  Charles  Butler.  Wallace  K.  Harrison.  William  F,  Lamb.  Ralph  Walker,  and  C.  Grant 
LaParge.  chairman,  "The  Architects'  Committee  reports  on  Columbia's  School  of 
Architecture,  "  Architectural  Forum.  February  1935. 

13  "Columbia  Changes  Her  Methods."  Architectural  Forum.  February  1935, 

1 4  Wlllard  Hotchkiss  to  Mies  van  der  Rohe.  2  July  1936,  Hotchkiss  Papers.  Architecture.  IIT, 

15  Mies  van  der  Rohe  to  Wlllard  Hotchkiss,  2  September  1936.  Hotchkiss  Papers.  Archi- 
tecture, IIT. 

16  Alfred  Barr  to  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  19  July  1936,  Mies  Archive,  LC.  [Apparently,  a  copy  of 
this  letter  does  not  survive  in  the  Barr  papers  of  the  Archives  of  American  Art,  for  it  Is  not 
mentioned  in  the  Rona  Roob's  article]. 

17  Joseph  Hudnut  to  Mies.  3  September  1936,  Mies  Archive.  LC. 

18  Mies  to  Hudnut,  15  September  1936,  Mies  Archive,  Museum  of  Modern  Art  (MoMAl,  also 
quoted  in  Schulze.  p.  207. 

19  Hudnut  to  Mies.  28  September  1936.  Mies  Archive.  LC. 

20  Hudnut  to  Mies,  26  October  1936,  Mies  Archive,  LC, 

21  Hudnut  to  Mies.  6  November  1936.  Mies  Archive.  LC. 


67 


M  i  E  S'S     CURRICULUM      AT      IIT 


22  Hudnut  to  Mies.  16  November  1936.  Mies  Archive.  LC 

23  Hudnut  to  Alfred  Barr.  16  November  1936.  Alfred  Barr  Papers,  MoMA,  also  in  microfilm 
In  the  Archives  of  American  Art,  quoted  In  Roob,  p.  29. 

24  Hudnut  to  Mies,  26  October  1936,  Mies  Archive,  LC. 

25  Hotchkiss  to  Mies.  21  September  1936,  Hotchkiss  Papers,  Architecture,  IIT. 

26  "Confidential  Memorandum,  Proposed  Appointment  of  a  Professor  of  Design  in  the 
Graduate  School  of  Design,  Harvard  University."  nd,  Mies  Archive,  LC. 

27  John  Holabird  to  Hotchkiss,  23  September  1936,  Hotchkiss  Papers,  Architecture,  IIT. 

28  Holabird  to  Hotchkiss.  30  October  1936.  Hotchkiss  Papers,  Architecture,  IIT. 

29  Michael  van  Beuren  to  Mies.  3  November  1936,  Mies  Archive,  MoMA,  quoted  in  Schuize, 
pp.  207-208. 

30  Heald  to  Hotchkiss.  15  September  1937.  Heald  papers.  Dean  file,  IIT 

31  Schuize,  p.  211.  reports  that  Wright  himself  brought  Mies  back  to  Chicago  In  order 
personally  to  show  him  his  work  In  Racine,  Oak  Park,  Riverside  and  Hyde  Park. 

32  Heaid  to  Hotchkiss.  15  September  1937.  Heald  papers.  Dean  file,  IIT. 

33  Mies  to  Heald,  10  December  1937,  Mies  Archive,  LC. 

34  Walter  GropI us.  The  new  architecture  ana  the  Bauhaus.  Cambridge.  MA:  The  MIT  Press, 
1965,  esp.  pp.  19-44.  Groplus  wrote  this  text  in  1937. 

35  Mies,  1950  speech  at  IIT, 

36  Mies,  1938  speech  at  Armour. 

37  Mies,  "Explanation  of  Educational  Program,"  undated  statement.  Internal  evidence 
suggests  [for  text,  see  Appendix]  Winter  1937-1938  Mies  Archive,  LC. 

38  Robert  Maynard  Hutchins,  No  Friendly  Voice.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press, 
1936. 

39  Paul  Valery.  1871-1945.  Eupallnos:  ou.  larchitecte.  Paris:  Galllmard.  1924;  Eupallnos 
Oder  Uber  Die  Archltektur.  Leipzig;  Insei-Verlag,  1927;  and  Eupa//nos,  on  the  Architect. 
London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1932.  Mies  owned  a  copy  of  the  German  edition. 

40  Valery,  Eupallnos.  or  the  Architect. 

41  Johnson,  pp.  136-137.  The  other  plans  are  In  the  Mies  Archive.  MoMA. 

42  George  Danforth.  MIes's  draftsman  at  the  time,  recalls  this  as  the  term  Mies  used  to 
summarize  his  rejection  of  this  plan. 

43  An  Indication  of  this  attitude  is  confirmed  by  the  following  letter  from  John  B.  Rodgersto 
Linton  Grinter.  Dean  of  Armour  College.  6  April  1940.  Heald  Archive,  IIT. 

"We  are  returning  herewith  the  list  of  books  in  the  library  of  the  Chicago  Architectural 
Sketch  Ciub  which  you  and  President  Heald  gave  us  ten  days  ago.  Since  then  we  have 
had  our  faculty  members  check  over  the  list.  We  have  had  copies  of  the  books  which 
seem  to  come  in  question  set  out  for  us  in  the  Burnham  Library  and  have  gone  through 
them. 

"We  are  of  the  opinion  that  it  would  not  be  worth  Armour's  while  to  purchase  any  of 
these  books  because  they  are  quite  expensive  and  each  such  book  has  only  a  few  plates 
which  would  be  useful  for  instruction  purposes.  It  would  be  far  less  expensive  to  have 
slides  of  such  plates  made  from  the  copies  of  these  books  in  the  possession  of  the 
Burnham  Library." 

44  Mies  to  Linton  Grinter.  Dean  of  Armour  College.  26  February  1940,  Heald  Archive.  IIT. 

45  A,  James  Speyer  to  Mies,  28  April  1958,  Mies  Archive,  LC. 

46  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  Dedication  Ceremonies,  S.  R.  Crown  Hall,  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology,  Chicago,  Illinois,  30  April  1956,  Mies  Archive,  LC, 

47  MIestoEugenio  Batista.  12  March  1959.  Mies  Archive.  LC.  [In  Miessown  library,  now  at 
the  University  of  llilnols.  Chicago,  there  are  no  titles  either  of  Baudelaire  or  modern 
poetry]. 

48  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  notes  to  a  talk  given  early  to  mid  1950's,  Mies  Archive,  LC. 

49  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  [Speech  in  Honor  of  Walter  Groplus],  18  May  1953,  in  SIgfried 
Giedion,  Walter  Groplus:  Work  Teamwork.  New  York:  Reinhold,  1954,  pp.  17-18. 

50  Mies  to  Douglass  V.  Freret.  8  February  1960.  Mies  Archive,  LC, 

51  "6  Students  Talk  with  Mies,  February  13,  1952,"  Master  Builder.  North  Carolina  State 
College,  Raleigh,  School  of  Design,  Student  Publication,  Volume  2,  S3,  1952,  pp,  25-26, 

52  Mies  van  der  Rohe,  [Architectural  Education],  The  Architectural  Review.  1950, 


68 


CATALOGUE      OF     THE      EXHIBITION 


Items  4-13  lent  by  Bauhaus  Archiv,  Berlin. 

Items  11  on,  if  not  otherwise  indicated,  are  courtesy  of  the  student. 
Asterisk  (*)  denotes  the  property  of  the  College  of  Architecture, 
Planning  and  Design,  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology. 


I 


WRITING.     LECTURING     AND 
BUILDING      1919-1929 


During  these  years  Mies  addressed  ttne  complex  issues  of  modern 
arctnitecture  in  order  to  find  a  clear  expression  for  them.  To  do  this  he 
made  many  efforts  which  showed  the  problems  and  their  complexities 
fully  resolved.  The  finished  work  —  strong,  uncompromising  and  as- 
sured —  suggested  that  it  was  the  finest  possible  response  to  the  prob- 
lem. In  similar  fashion,  his  writing  and  lecturing  explored  the  central 
issues  of  the  era  to  find  their  real  meaning  and  implications.  As  Mies 
made  his  own  position  clear,  in  his  architectural  projects  and  worl^,  he 
explored  the  implications  of  these  ideas  for  practice.  The  project  for  the 
Brick  Country  House  typifies  this  effort,  showing  Mies's  interpretation 
of  the  material.  The  project  shows  great  understanding  of  and  fondness 
for  brick,  an  ancient  and  handy  material.  Mies  used  it  to  explore  the 
ideas  of  the  new  age,  without  denying  its  ancient  character.  In  every 
case  Mies  showed  the  difficulty  and  necessity  of  simplifying  a  problem 
to  its  essence.  This  required  a  careful  study  of  the  problem,  treating  it 
with  the  attention  it  deserved. 


70 


WF?ITING,     LECTURING,     AND      BUILDING 


1. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

Two  Panels.  Glass  Skyscraper  Study 

for  the  Frledrichstrasse.  Berlin.  1921. 

Collage. 

27"   X   39V4'(70   -^  99.8  cm)  each. 

Lent  by  Edward  A.  Duckett. 

2. 

"G" 

[Zeitschrift  fur  elementare 

Gestaltung] 

a.  Volume  I: 
pub.  1923., 

2  sheets  (photostat). 

17y2"  X  22"  (44.5  X  56  cm). 

b.  Volume  II: 

pub.  1923.  Original. 

18"  X   11  Vj"  (45.7  X  29.2  cm). 

c.  Volume  ill: 

pub.  1924.  Original. 

Also  Xerox  of  pgs.  8.  9,  15.  16, 

17,  20,  22,  24. 

10"  X  6%"  (25.4  X  17.1  cm). 

d.  Volume  iV: 

pub.  c.  1924.  Original. 
Also  Xerox  of  pgs.  4,  5,  6,  7.  8,  9. 
10"  X  63/4"  (25.4  X  17.1  cm). 
Lent  by  The  Art  Institute  of  Chicago. 


3. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

a.  Wolf  House,  Guben    1926. 
Photographs 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  IVlodern 
Art. 

b.  Weissenhofsiedlung:  Werkbund 
Exposition,  Stuttgart.  1927. 

1.  Site  Plan. 

2.  Aerial  View. 
Photographs. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 

c.  Concrete  Office  Building,  Project. 
1922. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

d.  Brick  Country  House,  Project. 
1922. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

e.  Concrete  Country  House.  Project. 
1923. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

f.  Hermann  Lange  House,  Krefeld. 
1928. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

g.  Esters  House,  Krefeld.  1928. 
Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 
h.    Glass  Skyscraper,  Project.  1922. 
Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 


71 


2 


BAUHAUS     AND     PRIVATE 
TEACHING      1930-1937 


When  Mies  became  Director  of  the  Bauhaus  in  1 930  his  thoughts  about 
architectural  education  shifted  from  informal  speculations  to  practical 
application.  The  initial  consensus  between  the  school  and  the  local 
authorities  had  deteriorated  and  Mies  attempted  to  stabilize  the  school 
by  focussing  on  problems  of  the  curriculum.  For  his  own  teaching  he 
conducted  an  architecture  school,  malting  no  claims  to  the  universality 
of  such  training  in  relation  to  other  design  disciplines.  The  principle 
object  of  study  was  the  dwelling,  usually  a  court  house,  although  varia- 
tions existed.  The  problems  explored  the  organization  and  expression 
of  architectural  space.  The  difficult  decisions  necessary  to  express  the 
simplest  of  ideas  dominated  the  student's  time.  While  forcing  students 
to  think  in  detail  and  at  length  of  the  most  abstract  of  architectural 
problems,  Mies  also  expected  them  to  demonstrate  their  ideas  in 
graphically  elegant  detail.  Drawings  done  for  Mies  are  invariably  better 
than  drawings  prepared  by  the  same  student  for  other  teachers.  Mies 
inherited  an  existing  faculty,  including  Walter  Peterhans  and  Ludwig 
Hilberseimer.  Through  his  Berlin  colleague,  Lilly  Reich,  he  introduced 
course  work  in  interiors. 

Mies's  authority  derived  from  his  strength  of  character  and,  possibly 
even  more,  from  his  status  as  an  architect.  This  status  had  been  recently 
confirmed  by  the  critical  acclaim  accorded  the  Barcelona  Pavilion  of 
1928-1929  and  the  Tugendhat  House  1928-1930,  regarded  then  as 
now  great  masterworks  of  architecture. 


72 


■•  '.  ik'-^v'^''    ;^-j^  ^■^-'     *'>^ 


Ernst  Louis  Beck 

Course:  WorKing  Drawings. 

Bauhaus,  Berlin. 

a.  Seven  Construction  Sketches  of 
Different  Window  Types.  1933. 
Pencil  and  colored  pencil  on 
transparent  paper. 

11  ¥4"  X  9'/8"  (30  X  25  cm)  and 
10y2"  X  y/s"  (26.8  X   18  cm). 

b.  A  Single  Family  Housing  Estate 
In  Berlln-Welssensee.  1933. 

Ink  on  paper. 

16'/2"  X  23ys"  {42  X  60  cm). 

A  Small  House  for  Max  Tichauer 

In  Berlln-Welssensee.  1933. 

Ink  on  paper. 

leVj"  X  235/8"  (42  X  60  cm). 

A  Small  House  In 

Berlln-Welssensee.  Construction 

Details.  1933. 

Ink  on  paper. 

16'/2"  X  235/8"  (42  X  60  cm). 


c. 


d 


30a 


'-■»•••/=■/""  ■-    '■'■.■■I-'-'- 


aleaU    I   :    1000 


ue:™— 


^«ileirnizJ»proJ-ll 


J  J  Lu  e  »^o  f-*  3  "=*"• '' 


eintorntlie'^' 


how39l©cJlL. 


^.^  A««  ...**Wx>  -*"*-^-  •*»•*  --o*--* 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


Ar  u  n  d  t 

kJi 


ergeschoss 


m    1  MOO 


b   uorraTskeller  h  tuoKn-u  essroum 

c    kol-ilenraum  I  kocf^n  rsclie 

cJ   LfOSctntSuclne  k  had    U.    HJ-  C. 

e   nicnT  unrerkellerr  (  hol«u-^«fd+«sctiwpp«r> 

T    scnloTz.!  mmer  m  forrosse 


erdgeeckoss 


ansichren: 

n  o  >- J 


v^ 


nieinhaus 

|ur  herrn    mtH  Tichauer  in  b«rlin-u/«iss«nsee,  fiit{oriuash»sie  )3,  l«^eLuck  3)22/35 


Qt/erscnnift      -'' 


sud 


J;;--! t;  ~7r~I 


1 


CI 


a=ESl         E3IES 


Jor  t>«uKerr.  J^,  arcK.lekf  u  ueronfiu  kauleite 


-wid  hJii(Mjf~ 


Konei'^'M'L'eb  enKwer^n    3  3«mo»/»f3i 


74 


Gunter  Conrad 

Instructor:  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 

Rohe 

a.  House  C: 

1.  Floor  Plan. 

2.  View  Into  Living  Room  and 
Court. 

b.  House  D: 

1.  Floor  Plan. 

2.  Living  Room. 
Mounted  Photographs. 

133/4"  X  17%"  (35  X  45  cm)  each. 


fi'Y^-'r>r-vfir4 


5a2 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


3    EINFAMILIENWOHNHAUSER 


M.    1 : 100 


LINKS 
MIHE 
RECMTS 


HAUS  A 
MAU5  B 
HAUS     C 


Ernst  Hegel 

Instructor;  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 

Rohe 

Three  Single  Family  Houses. 

a.  Plans  for  House  A,  B,  C.  1933. 
8y2"  X    11  Ve"  (20.7   X  28.3  cm). 

b.  House  A: 

view  from  the  Street. 

AVi"  X   113/4"  (11.3  X  29.8  cm). 

c.  House  B  and  C: 
View  from  the  Street. 

5%"  X   1iy8"(9.3  X  29.4  cm). 

d.  House  B: 
Entrance  Hall. 

7W  X  8Ve"  (18.7  X  22.3  cm). 

e.  House  C: 

Living  Room  and  Library. 
17y2"  X  8ye"  (19  X  22.2  cm). 
Mounted  photographs. 


6a 


76 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


77 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


ziueigesdiossioes  reihenhQus  fnitdQdiQQften. 


lelMfiigerbQuuieise.  sdiuiemmsteindeiKe  fniteiseneinloge. 


■■/„/, ...•!■■../   k 


;■ .  •>/,  'f.f 


7a 


V /. V- 


"'/''■/'  ■" 


7b 


78 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


7. 

Wllhelm  Jakob  Hess 

a.  Seminar:  Ludwig  Hilberselmer 
Two  Story  Row  House  with  Roof 
Garden.  1931.  Construction 
Drawing. 

Various  media  in  collage  on 

paper. 

23%"  X   16%"  (59.5  X  42.5  cm) 

each. 

b.  Seminar:  Ludvylg  Hiiberseimer 
Two  Story  Row  House  with  Roof 
Garden.  1931.  Construction 
Drawing. 

Various  media  in  collage  on 

paper. 

233/8"  X  16%"  (59.5  X  42.5  cm) 

each. 

c.  Course:  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 
Rohe 

Apartment  House  Plan.  1932. 

ink  on  paper. 

16'/2"  X  233/8"  (42  X  59.4  cm). 

d.  Instructor:  Liiiy  Reich 
Two  Room  House 

(with  C.  Vanderlinden).  Plan. 
16'//'  X  233/8"  (42  X  59.4  cm). 


d.  instructor:  Lliiy  Reich 
Two  Room  House  (with  C. 
Vanderlinden).  Plan. 

16-/2"  X  233/8"  (42  X  59.4  cm). 

e.  instructor:  Lilly  Reich 

1.  Adjustable  Couch. 

2.  Combination  Secretary 
Dresser. 

3.  Clothes  Closet 

(aii  with  C.  Vanderlinden). 
Pencil,  ink  on  paper. 
lIVs"  X   le'A"  (29.6  X  42  cm). 


» 

• 

rn 

i 

U — i_ — .•—-■■■ . 

r. 

i  ■  - ;  :  ~  : 

t 

i.    .-..  •  .     ■ 

- 

1                  :.               ^: 

- 

iizrr: 


E 


J 


!•      • 


s     -"^ 


1 


3 


7el 


7e2 


79 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


111  -.-^--l-ll  ''-      k\\ 

:J-rr — :     Hr-H-='  I-  "t 


~.4. .V, 


80 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE     TEACHING 


I 


=^ 


V 


-  / 


V? 


'■I 


-^' 


\ 


'^ 


1^ 


f.  For  a  Ludwig  Hilberselmer 
Publication. 

1.  Single  Family  Housing. 
leVa"  X  23%"  (42.1    X  59.2 
cm). 

2.  Two  Story  Row  House. 
16%"  X  23V8"  (42.1    X  59.2 
cm). 

3.  Eleven  Story  Building  with 
Enclosed  Corridor. 

16%"  X  23%"  (42.1    X  59.2 
cm). 
Ink  and  colored  Ink  on  board. 

g.  Critique  by  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 
Rohe.  1932. 

Pencil  on  paper. 

16y8"  X  20%"  (41    X  52.9  cm). 
h.  Critique  by  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 

Rohe.  1932. 

Pencil  on  paper. 

16'/8"  X  20%"  (41    X  52.9  cm). 
I.     Instructor:  unknown. 

Bauhaus,  Dessau. 

Regional  Site  Plan  of  Group 

Project  "Workerhousing  for  the 

Junkers  Works"  (with 

C.  Vanderllnden).  1932. 

Printed  City  Map.  1930. 

Various  media,  mounted  on 

board. 

23%"  X   16%"  (59.2  X  42.3  cm), 
j.     Instructor;  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 

Rohe 

Apartment  House  Project.  1932. 

1.  Elevation  and  Floor  Plan. 
Ink  on  board. 

23%"  X   I6V2"  (59.2  X  42  cm). 

2.  Isometric  Interior  study  (color 
by  H.  Scheper). 

Pencil,  ink  and  gouache  on 

paper. 

leVs"  X  23y4"  (41.6  X  60.3 

cm). 


A132 


7J2 


81 


BAUHAUS     AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


1  llllllllll 

1  llllllllll 

U  [|            '     c 

1  llllllllll 

D 

1=  c 

1 

2..  e  ruje  I -te  rung  f 


1  llllllllll 

L 1   1 1 

—t — 

n 

8. 

Hubert  Hoffman 

Expandable  House  Project.  1932. 
Ink  on  transparent  paper. 
173/8"  X  22W' {44.:    X  56.9  cm). 


Ludwlg  Mies  van  der  Rohe 
Bauhaus.  Berlin. 

a.  Remodeling  of  Floor  Plan  in 
Factory  Building  for  Bauhaus, 
Berlin.  1932-33. 

b.  Remodeling  of  Second  Floor  Plan 
In  Factory  Building  for  Bauhaus, 
Berlin.  1932-33.  Location: 
Slemensstrasse  27,  corner 
Lulsenstrasse  In  Berlin-Steglltz. 

Drawing  on  linen. 

12y4"  X  40y2"(31    X  103  cm)  each. 


3 .  erujei  terung 


82 


<+,  ^/  .-f/j.k^t'    'jf    '/>c;> 


\^- 


.J 


10. 

Helnrlch  Neuy 

Instructor:  Ludwlg  Mies  van  der 

Rotie 

a.  Apartment  for  a  Bachelor. 
Floor  Plan.  Interior  Perspective 
and  Elevation.  1931-32. 

inK  on  paper. 

17"  X  24V8"  (43.4  X  61.1  cm). 

b.  Third  Exercise. 
Floor  Plan.  1931-32. 
InK  on  paper. 

MVa"  X  24'/8"(43.6  x  61.1   cm). 

c.  Third  Exercise. 

Interior  Perspective.  1931-32. 

Ink  on  paper. 

14V4"  X  24V8"(36.2  x  61.1  cm). 

d.  Fourth  Exercise. 

Floor  Plan  with  Corrections. 
Pencil  on  transparent  paper. 
10"  X   IS'/z"  (25.5  X  47  cm). 
Instructor:  Lilly  Reich 

e.  Room  of  a  Lady. 

Interior  Elevation.  1931-32. 
Pencil  and  watercolor  on  paper. 
17"  X  24y8"  (43.4  X  61.1  cm). 

f.  Grade  School. 
Perspective  Elevation.  1932. 
InK  on  paper. 

17'/8"  X  24"  (43.5  X  60.8  cm). 

g.  Grade  School. 
Floor  Plan.  1932. 
InK  on  paper. 

171/8"  X  24"  (43.5  X  60.8  cm). 


J-'w  i-oVM.  i'c.-.f- 


10d 


a  iite4|^^:irm( 


rrr  i 


m 


gtrru 


Sm=cL 


1 

f 

■ 

[ 

■ 

-WlU 

i 

L 

lOe 


Zimmer  dvr  dame , 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


12a 


84 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


11. 

Rudolf  Ortner 

Summer  House  Project.  1932. 

a.  Floor  Plan. 

b.  Interior  Entrance. 

c.  Isometric  Interior. 

d.  Elevation. 

Ink,  watercolor,  collage  on  paper. 
2  -  2SW  X   19V8"  (65  X  50  cm). 
2  -   igvs"  X  255/9"  (50  K  65  cm). 

12. 

Plus  Pahl 

a.    For  Ludwig  Hllberselmer 

Das  wachsende  Haus.  1932. 

Housing  Development  Project. 

Ink  on  paper. 

16Ve"  X  23%"  (42.3  x  59.4  cm). 
P.    For  Ludwig  Hllberselmer 

Das  wachsende  Haus.  1932. 

Housing  Development  Project. 

Ink  on  paper. 

leVe"  X  23%"  (42.3  x  59.4  cm). 

c.  Instructor:  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 
Rohe 

Garden  View  of  L-shaped  House. 

1931. 

Ink  on  paper. 

d.  ■Boardinghaus." 

Aerial  View.  Project.  1930. 

Ink  on  paper. 

lev*"  X  23%"  (42.6  X  60.7  cm). 

e.  Instructor:  Hinnerk  Scheper 
House  "C."  Color  study.  1931-32. 
Pencil,  tempera  and  ink  on  paper. 
21"  X  28'/4"  (53.5  X  71.7  cm). 


— i'^tttS — r^FFrrm — T^rrnT?! — <^iin4r- /iTi'Ti^rVTrTiifr — A\  \\\"^ — Aww^ — A\  i  n^r— »^rTir*T— t'rn 


m 


hi 


Ittt^Miat; 


'-^;"v^^ 


kr 


r"H^ 


m 


85 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


12gl 


86 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


Instructor:  Ludwig  Mies  van  der 

Rohe 

House  "C"  Project.  1931-32. 

1.  Floor  Plan. 
Ink  on  paper. 

16%"  X  7.3V%"  (43  X  60.7  cm). 

2.  Entrance  Perspective. 
InK  on  paper. 

IIVi"  X  39V8"  (70  X  99.5  cm). 

3.  Living  Room  and  Bedroom 
Perspective. 

Ink  on  paper. 
27%"  X  39y8" 
(69.7  X  99.5  cm). 

4.  Sun  Room. 
Perspective  View. 
Ink  on  paper. 
27-/2"  X  39%" 
(69.8  X  100  cm). 

Beach  House,  Gardersee  Project. 
1932-33, 

1.  Aerial  View  from  Northwest. 
Ink  on  paper. 

27%"  X  385/8" 
(69.6  X  98.2  cm). 

2.  Plans  and  Elevations. 
Ink  on  paper. 

27 '/2"  X  38%" 
(69.8  X  98.8  cm). 


i 


j^T'^ilr- 


i4 


M. 


tIS? 


::x:m 


g 


trtt 


'-f 


1» 


wrr 


j::.i 


TTH-m  i  '     Hi) 


M 


■m/fi.>/,.wL.um.ujUFnt 


.(Hgr,-  -VA>-;.  ;J«(>L-J  tS',-Jt 


»^K(F->,*^^^f*,  ,.-. 


;'K.'-  ■:.    '-.I .. 


C 
D    D 


?E 


Vi/ 


L 

'^?^--  f"-"'"^-^ 

r^''^ 

M 

1  'ii  1 II 1 1 1 II 1 1 1 

i; 

,  ~ 

1 1     II     11     1     II 

1 

1 

1 

L^i^CmULLLU 
LU-UrTTT  II  I  I  I  I 


I  II  I  i 


J 1 


"TT 


^ir~iiT 


TG 


I  I  II  I  I  I  I  ITTTI 


Ill  i-m 


n 


ii/.W.     ^  ■'       •,  /  C  /rt    ^f  * 


DA  u(_ 
■  51(     It, 


12g2 


87 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


i 


13a 


88 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHI 


N  G 


13. 

Frank  Trudel 

Master  Class  with  Ludwlg  Mies  van 

der  Rohe 

Three  Court  Houses  with  Common 

Kitchen  Court  Project.  February 

1935. 

a.  Plan. 

b.  Elevation. 
Ink  on  board. 

19%"  X  27"  (49.3  X  68.5  cm)  each. 


"-f 


m 


'.^^  ■ 


pi  I    ItLJUIH^ 


F«^^)-.,., 


m  ■  "PM 


i;^I®*N»:^k 


..y,    ^-    IJ!:^.>. 


sk» 


r 


m  ^-♦- 


■  » 


Ji. 


liT 


13D 


89 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


T 


!       i 


_ 


90 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


14. 

Eugen  Batz 

Discards  with  Net  and  Pieces  of 

Wood.  1930. 

Photograph. 

10'A"  X  7%"  (25.9  X   19.8  cm). 

Lent  by  Rudolf  Kicken  Galerle, 

Cologne. 

15. 

Hajo  Rose 

Self  Portrait.  (Photomontage).  1931. 

Photograph. 

8V2"  X  6'A"  (21.6  X   16  cm). 

Lent  by  Rudolf  Kicken  Galerle, 

Cologne. 

16. 

Ellen  Pitt  Auerbach 

Sewing  Thread,  c.  1930. 

Photograph. 

4"  X  5"  (10.2  X   12.9  cm). 

Lent  by  Rudolf  Kicken  Galerle, 

Cologne. 

17. 

Grete  (RIngI)  Stern 

Paper  In  Waterglass.  1931. 

Photograph. 

6%"  X  5%"  (16.2  X   13.7  cm). 

Lent  by  Rudolf  Kicken  Gaierie, 

Cologne. 


18. 

Horacio  Coppola 

Egg  and  String.  1931. 

Photograph. 

8%"  X    10ye"(21.3  X  25.7  cm). 

Lent  by  Rudolf  Kicken  Gaierie, 

Cologne. 

19. 

W.  David  Feist 

Man  with  Pipe.  (Kurt  Stulp).  1929. 

Photograph. 

9'/8"  X  7y8"(25.2  X   18.2  cm). 

Lent  by  Rudolf  Kicken  Gaierie, 

Cologne. 


20. 

Michael  Van  Beuren 

Five  studies  for  Court  Houses. 

1934-35. 

Pencil  and  colored  pencil  on  tracing 

paper. 

a.        12%"  X  11  Vz"  (32.4  X  29.2  cm). 

b-d.  8%"  X  11"  (22.2  X  27.9  cm). 

e.  8%"  X   19y4"(21.9  X  48.9  cm). 
Three  studies  for  Court  Houses. 
1934-35. 

Pencil  and  colored  pencil  on  tracing 
paper. 

f.  123/4"  X  29"  (32.4  X  73.7  cm). 

g.  llVa"  X  27%"  (29.5  x  72.2  cm), 
h.    llVe"  x  24"  (28.3  x  61  cm). 


21. 

Ludwig  Hilberselmer 

a.  Mixed  Housing  Development, 
c,  1920-30. 

Ink  on  paper. 

13"  X  20ye"  (33  x  51.5  cm). 

Lent  by  The  Art  Institute  of 

Chicago. 

b.  Mixed  Housing  Development, 
c.  1920-30. 

Perspective  rendering. 

Ink  on  paper. 

14%"  X  20"  (36.5  x  51  cm). 

Lent  by  The  Art  Institute  of 

Chicago. 


c.  City  Planning  Proposal.  Traffic 
Level.  1925. 

insert  in  lower  right-hand  corner: 

variation  introducing  three  levels 

of  traffic. 

Ink  on  heavy  paper. 

23%"  X  33"  (59.5  x  83.8  cm). 

Pub.:  Entfaltung  einer 

Planungsldee.  p.  17,  III.  6. 

Lent  by  The  Art  Institute  of 

Chicago. 

d.  Central  Railroad  Station,  Berlin. 
Perspective,  c.  1927. 

Pencil  on  heavy  paper. 

20y2"  X  28%"  (51.2  X  72.8  cm). 

Pub.:  Entfaltung  eIner 

Planungsldee.  p.  124.  Ml.  102. 

Lent  by  The  Art  Institute  of 

Chicago. 


21c 


91 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


22. 

Das  Kunstblatt 

September,  1927. 

Paul  Westhelm,  Publisher. 

Akademische  Verlagsgesellschaft: 

Athenaion  M.B.H. 

Wild  park -Potsdam. 

Haus  Hilberselmer:  Floor  Plan, 

p.  337. 

Ludwig  Hilberselmer:  Single  Family 

House,  p.  338. 

Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

23. 

Ludwig  Hllberseimer 
Hallenbauten.  1931. 
J.  M.  Gebhardt's  Verlag,  Leipzig. 
Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

24. 

Ludwig  Hllberseimer 
Groszstadt  Architektur.  1927. 
Verlag  Julius  Hoffman,  Stuttgart. 
Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

25. 

Ludwig  Hllberseimer 
Internationale  Neue  Baukunst.  1928. 
Verlag  Julius  Hoffman,  Stuttgart. 
Lent  by  George  Danforth. 


26. 

Walter  Peterhans 

Untitled.  Combs  &  Ping  Pong  Balls. 

Prior  to  1938. 

Photograph. 

ISVa"  X   1iy8"(39  X  29.9  cm). 

Lent  by  Brigitte  Peterhans. 

27. 

Walter  Peterhans 

Untitled.  Grapes,  Lace  &  Magnifying 

Glass  on  Glass.  Prior  to  1938. 

Photograph. 

11 'A"  X  11%"  (29.2  X  30.1  cm). 

Lent  by  John  VIncl. 

28. 

Walter  Peterhans 

Untitled.  Wire  and  Lemon  on  Wood. 

Prior  to  1938. 

Photograph. 

10%"  X   13"  (27.6  y  33  cm). 

Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

29. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

Group  of  Three  Court  Houses. 

1930's. 

Model  (reconstructed)  by  George 

Sorich,  1986. 

30. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 
a.    Barcelona  Pavilion,  Barcelona. 
1929. 

Photograph  by  Berliner 
Bild-Bericht,  Berlin. 
Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern- 
Art. 


92 


BAUHAUS      AND      PRIVATE      TEACHING 


b.  Tugendhat  House,  Brno.  1930. 
View  from  Garden. 
Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 

c.  House  at  the  Berlin  Building 
Exposition.  1931. 

1.  Floor  Plan. 

Pencil  on  transparent  paper. 

2.  Dining  Room. 
Photographs. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 

d.  Court  Houses.  1931-40. 

1.  Aerial  Perspective  View, 
House  with  Two  Courts, 
c.  1934. 

Ink  on  transparent  paper. 

2.  Floor  Plan,  House  with  Three 
Courts.  1939. 

Studio  drawing,  pencil  on 

drawing  board. 
Photographs. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 

e.  Gerlcke  House,  Berlin-Wannsee. 
1932. 

1.  Floor  Plan  (upper  floor). 
Pencil  on  board. 

2.  Floor  Plan  (main  floor). 
Pencil  on  board. 

Photographs. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

f.  Mountain  House,  Tyroi.  1934. 
Perspective  view. 
Charcoal  and  pencil  on 
transparent  paper. 
Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 
Art. 


Sketch  for  a  Glass  House  on  a 

Hillside,  c.  1934. 

Pencil  on  transparent  paper. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

Hubbe  House  Project, 

Magdeburg.  1935. 

1 .  Perspective  view  of  court 
(view  from  terrace). 

2.  Perspective  view  of  terrace 
(view  from  llvlngroom). 

3.  Model. 
Photographs. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

Ulrlch  Lange  House,  Krefeld. 

1935. 

1 .  Two  elevations,  preliminary 
version. 

2.  Floor  plan,  preliminary 
version. 

3.  Site  plan  with  floor  plan,  final 
version. 

4.  Three  elevations,  final  version. 
Pencil  on  transparent  paper. 
Photographs. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

Administration  Building  for  the 

Silk  Industry  Project,  Krefeld. 

1937. 

1.  Main  Hall. 

Pencil  on  transparent  paper. 

2.  Model. 
Photographs. 

Courtesy  of  Museum  of  Modern 

Art. 

Lemcke  House,  Berlin.  1932. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  George  Danforth. 

Relchsbank  Project,  Berlin.  1933. 

Photograph.  Courtesy  of  Heldrlch 

Blessing. 


V     \ 


30g 


93 


3 


NT     CURRICULM 
19  3  7-1958 


In  his  private  teaclning  after  closing  the  Bauhaus,  Mies  considered  at 
leisure  the  problems  he  had  observed  in  teaching  there.  When  he 
accepted  the  appointment  in  Chicago  in  the  fall  of  1937,  his  thoughts  on 
the  curriculum  had  matured,  and  he  instituted  them.  Although  Mies's 
curriculum  is  based  on  the  actual  problems  of  architecture,  it  is  not  a 
version  of  an  office  or  actual  practice.  The  problems  Mies  introduced, 
such  as  the  court  house,  are  simple,  clear  and  highly  abstract,  and  were 
developed  further  in  the  school.  Students  studied  architectural  tech- 
nique to  be  capable  of  building  simply  and  clearly.  But,  the  study  of 
technique  is  also  abstract  and  the  lessons  learned  are  In  the  nature  of 
problems  in  particular,  and  problem  solving  in  general. 
In  bringing  Peterhans  and  Hilberseimer  to  Chicago,  Mies  drew  on  the 
skills  of  his  former  colleagues  Both,  however,  taught  courses  that  had 
evolved  from  their  teaching  in  Europe.  While  visual  training  was  recog- 
nized as  a  need  at  the  Bauhaus,  at  NT  Peterhans  developed  it  into  a 
course  which  taught  students  visual  perception.  In  America,  Hilber- 
seimer's  highly  abstract  analyses  in  planning  characteristic  of  his  Euro- 
pean teaching,  expanded  to  include  an  ecological  approach,  addressing 
itself  to  the  particularities  of  the  individual  site  in  addition  to  the  appli- 
cation of  general  principles. 


94 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


31. 

Albert  Goers 

Archeo  Design  Problem,  c.  1936. 

Ink  wash  on  watercoior  paper. 

38"  X  24y8"  (96.5  x  62  cm). 

32. 

Albert  Goers 

Archeo  Design  Problem,  c.  1936. 

Sepia  wash  and  pencil  on  Watman's 

watercoior  paper. 

22'/2"  X  29'/8"  (57  X  74  cm). 

33. 

Albert  Goers 

Architectural  Drawing,  1st  Year. 

Art  Institute  Doorway,  East  Facade 

overlooking  McKllntock  Court. 

c.  1934. 

Elevation. 

Ink  wash  on  watercoior  paper. 

26ya"  X  20%"  (67.5  x  52.5  cm). 

34. 

Ivar  Viehe-Naess,  Jr. 

Class  B  -  III  Project. 

An  Open  Air  Museum,  c.  1937. 

Ink  wash  on  watercoior  paper. 

39V8"  X  28^/8"  (100.5  x  72.5  cm). 

Lent  by  Raymond  Kliphardt. 

35. 

Raymond  Kliphardt 

Class  B  -  Project  II. 

A  Country  Restaurant,  c.  1937. 

Watercoior  on  watercoior  paper. 

28"  X  39"  (71  X  99  cm). 

36. 

Raymond  Kliphardt 

Class  B  —  Project  III. 

A  Book  Store,  c.  1937. 

Ink  wash  on  watercoior  paper. 

27%"  X  38"  (70.5  x  96.5  cm). 


~3 


A   .  t-.r.l  -ill-t 
1-  1 .         1 — ir;-rf- 

fr 

1        _:i  -  il-Jti- 

imm  '^ 

[-  Jf-^m- 

T  ..: 


3 


I  5ECOND     FLOOH, 
CLA-MCAL     !.C1EN':E,  TRAVEL,  LA.NC^VA.T^E,  PHILOSOPHY 


A' 


LT 


(-  i  ^\ 


•  fvlEZZANINE  ~^-  n-^ 


■  FIRST    FLOOR 
MAGAZINES,  POPv'LAp    PhNI 


kWMri'ii'  i-iJi'MAitOT 

CLA5^  b    v-k&lETnr 


95 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


37. 

Raymond  Kliphardt 

Class  B  -  Project  IV. 

A  Cinema  Lobby,  c.  1936-37. 

Watercolor  on  watercolor  paper. 

28%"  X  39y4"  (73  X  99.5  cm). 

38. 

R.  Smith 

Applied  Descriptive  Geometry  102. 

Revolution  of  Triangular  Plane  to 

Determine  True  Size  and  Angles  of 

Sides.  1950. 

Ink  on  Strattimore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

39. 

Robert  Kissinger 

Applied  Descriptive  Geometry  102. 

Intersection  of  Solids.  1950. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

40. 

Donald  Wrobleski 

Perspective  108. 

Perspective  Projection,  c.  1949-50. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

41. 

Richard  L.  Svec 

Applied  Descriptive  Geometry  104. 

Development  of  an  Ellipse.  1951. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

42. 

Edward  Starostovic 

Axonometric  Projection  103. 

Revolution  of  Line  and  Plane.  Spring 

1952. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 


38 


40 


96 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


43. 

Anonymous 

Applied  Descriptive  Geometry  104. 

Two  Lines  Intersecting. 

Late  1950s. 

Ink  and  colored  Ink  on  paper. 

29"  X  20"  (73.6  x  51  cm). 

Lent  by  John  Vincl. 

44. 

W.  Kosterman 

Elementary  Drafting  103. 

Line  Weight  Exercise,  c.  1961-62. 

Ink  on  paper. 

29"  X  20"  (73.6  X  51.  cm).* 

45. 

Vernon  Gelsel 
Elementary  Drafting  103. 
Line  Weight  Exercise.  1963. 
Pencil  on  paper. 
29"  X  20"  (73.6  x  51  cm).* 

46. 

Peter  Lewis 

Elementary  Drafting  103. 

Exercise  with  Tangential  Circles. 

1968-69. 

Ink  on  paper. 

29"  X  20"  (73.6  x  51  cm).* 

47. 

Freeze 

Elementary  Drafting  103. 

Exercise  with  Tangential  Circles. 

c.  1963. 

Pencil  on  paper. 

29"  X  20"  (73.6  x  51  cm).* 

48. 

Mary  Elizabeth  (Droste)  Spies 
Materials  and  Construction  207. 
Horizontal  Log  Construction.  1939. 
Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 
30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm). 
Lent  by  R.  Ogden  Hannaford. 


42 


97 


NT      CURRICULUM 


49. 

Richard  E.  Johnson 

Materials  and  Construction  207,  208. 

Brick  Bearing  Wall  House.  Cut-Away 

Perspective.  1948-49. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 


50. 

Anonymous 

Materials  and  Construction  213,  214. 

BrIcK  Bonding  Exercise,  c.  1956-57. 

Isometric. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

Lent  by  John  VIncl. 

51. 

M.  Von  Broembsen 

Materials  and  Construction  213,  214. 

Brick  Courthouse  Construction. 

1958. 

a.  Elevations/Sections. 

b.  Perspective. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 
30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6cm). 
Lent  by  John  VIncl. 


98 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


52. 

Gene  Maloney 

Materials  and  Construction  213. 

Brick  Bearing  Wall  Construction. 

January  1961. 

Plan  and  Section. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 

53. 

David  Spaeth 

Materials  and  Construction  214. 

Wood  Frame  House  on  Stone  Base. 

3  June  1961. 

Perspective. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 


99 


NT      CURRICULUM 


54. 

Katherlne  Barr 

Materials  and  Construction  213. 

Brick  Bearing  Wall  Construction. 

19  January  1967. 

Perspective  Section. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 

55. 

Carter  H.  Manny,  Jr. 
Architectural  Construction  311. 
Courthouse  Problem.  1947. 

a.  Sections. 

b.  Full  Scale  window  Details. 

c.  Perspective. 

Pencil  on  Illustration  board. 
30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm)  each. 


55 


100 


NT      CURRICULUM 


56. 

Edmond  N.  Zlsook 

Architectural  Construction  311,  312. 

Brick  Crosswall  House.  1948-49. 

Perspective. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm). 


^-^'S'ff 


»i,    '  '1  'I 


^2,;,»i-  n  ',; 


>« 


'S¥.  •■'fv 


0? 

.'li 

•'¥%, 

•' '(? 

»' 

^Qq  pV-pd 


56 


101 


NT      CURRICULUM 


57. 

Donald  WrobleskI 

Architectural  Construction  311,  312. 

BrIcK  Bearing  Wall  with  Concrete 

Roof  Using  Elementary  School  Plan. 

1951-52. 

Perspective  Section. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6.  cm). 


102 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


58. 

Kenneth  Folgers 

Architectural  Construction  311,  312. 

Shell  Construction  Using  Elementary 

School  Plan.  1955-56. 

Perspective  Section. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm). 


59. 

Anonymous 

Architectural  Construction  311.  312. 

Brick  Wall  and  Roof.  c.  1957-58. 

Full  Size  Detail. 

Pencil  and  colored  pencil  on 

Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm). 

Lent  by  John  vincl. 

60. 

Thomas  Burleigh 

Architecture  407,  408. 

Steel  Skeleton  HIghrlse  Curtain  Wall 

Study,  c.  1942-43. 

Pencil  and  Ink  on  back  of  blueprint. 

39y2"  X  30"  (101.3  X  76  cm). 


8igli!lMiJii;'-li:L.L^.jJLlJiJljg^ 


58 


103 


61. 

Joseph  Fujikawa 

Architecture  407,  408. 

Concrete  Skeleton  HIghrise  Curtain 

Wall  Study.  1944. 

Photograph  by  Hedrlch  Blessing. 

62. 

Bruno  Cohterato 
Architecture  408. 
Courthouse  Problem.  1948. 
Interior  Perspective. 
Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 
30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 

63. 

Robert  Reeves 

Architecture  407,  408. 

Brick  Bearing  Wall  Bachelor's 

House.  1949-50. 

Plan  and  Elevations. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 


64. 

Allen  Marske 

Architecture  404. 

Wall  Problem  with  Two  Sculptures. 

Collage  on  grey  board. 

15"  X  20"  (38.1   X  51  cm).* 

65. 

Walter  Romberg 

Architecture  404. 

Wall  Problem  with  Two  Paintings 

and  a  Shelf,  c.  1965. 

Collage  on  grey  board. 

15"  X  20"  (38.1   X  51  cm).* 

66. 

J.  Spacek 

Architecture  404. 

Wall  Problem  with  Painting  and 

Sculpture.  1970. 

Collage  on  grey  board. 

15"  X  20"  (38.1   X  51  cm).* 


61 


104 


IIT     CURRICULUM 


67. 

Gil  Walendy 

Architecture  403. 

Wall  Problem  with  Painting  and 

Shelf.  1968. 

Collage  on  grey  board. 

15"  X  20"  (38.1   X  51  cm).* 

68. 

Donald  SIckler 

Architecture  444. 

A  Campus  Plan.  1953. 

Perspective. 

Pencil  and  Ink  wash  on  Strathmore 

board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 

69. 

Anonymous 

Architecture  444. 

A  Campus  Plan.  1955-57. 

Two  Perspectives. 

a.  Conte  pencil  on  Strathmore 
board. 

b.  Conte  pencil  with  lipstick  on 
Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm)  each.* 

70. 

B.  Babka 

Architecture  444. 

HIghrise/Lowrise  Waterfront 

Development  Project,  c.  1956. 

Site  Plan. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 

71. 

Marcia  (Gray)  Martin 

Architecture  444. 

Highrise/Lowrise  Waterfront 

Development  Project.  1956. 

Elevation  Study. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

lO'A"  X  40"  (26  X  101.6  cm).* 


..A 

m 


105 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


72. 

Cynthia  (Bostick)  Lenz 

Architecture  444. 

HIghrlse/Lowrlse  Waterfront 

Development  Project.  1956. 

Perspective. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 


^^^^^m^s 


i„iiisasasKa^ 


73. 

R.  Linke  (Designer) 

B.  Samuels  (Draftsman) 

Architecture  444. 

Highrise/Lowrise  Waterfront 

Development  Project.  1956. 

Site  Plan. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 

74. 

G.  Osako 

Architecture  444. 

Highrise/Lowrise  Waterfront 

Development  Project.  1956. 

Site  Plan. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

lO'A"  X  40"  (26  X  101.6  cm).* 

75. 

Marilyn  Ternovits 
Architecture  405,  406. 
Hlghrise.  1  May  1967. 
Elevation  Studies. 
Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 
30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 

76. 

Thomas  Burleigh 

Visual  Training  211. 

Exercise  with  Textures.  25  January 

1941. 

Collage  on  illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 


75 


106 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


77. 

H.  Seklemlan 

visual  Training  211,  212. 

Exercise  In  Proportion,  c.  1943-44. 

Collage  on  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

Lent  by  the  Chicago  Historical 

Society. 


78. 

L.  Bllnderman 

Visual  Training  211.  212. 

Exercise  In  Proportion,  c.  1944-45. 

Collage  on  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

Lent  by  the  Chicago  Historical 

Society. 

79. 

J.  Somers 

Visual  Training  211,  212. 

Exercise  in  Proportion,  c.  1945-46. 

Collage  on  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

Lent  by  the  Chicago  Historical 

Society. 

80. 

J.  Somers 

Visual  Training  211,  212. 

Exercise  in  Proportion,  c.  1945-46. 

Collage  on  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

Lent  by  the  Chicago  Historical 

Society. 

81. 

David  J.  Tamminga 

Visual  Training  212.  1947. 

a.  Exercise  with  Textures. 

b.  Exercise  with  Textures. 

c.  intersecting  Planes. 
Collage  on  Illustration  board. 
30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm)  each. 


76 


107 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


82. 

John  Munson 
Visual  Training  212. 
Planes  In  Space.  May  1954. 
Collage  on  Illustration  board. 
30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

83. 

Edward  Starostovic 

Visual  Training  212. 

Exercise  with  Warped  Planes. 

January  1953. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 


108 


84. 

John  VIncI 

Visual  Training  211,  212. 

Exercise  In  Proportion.  1956-57. 

Collage  on  Illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

85. 

John  Munson 

Visual  Training  306. 

Exercise  with  Textures.  January 

1955. 

Ink  and  colored  Ink  on  paper. 

28'/8"  X  19%"  (71.5  X  50  cm). 

Mounted  on  Illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

86. 

David  Sharpe 

Visual  Training  306. 

Exercise  with  Natural  Textures. 

1958. 

Colored  inks  on  illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 

87. 

John  Vinci 

Visual  Training  305,  306. 

Exercise  with  Created  Textures. 

1957-58. 

Ink  wash  on  iliustratlon  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 


NT      CURRICULUM 


re  K^i 


85 


109 


NT      CURRICULUM 


88. 

Thomas  Burleigh 

Freehand  Drawing  205. 

Figure  Studies.  6  November  1940. 

Pencil  on  paper. 

24"  X  18"  (61   X  45.5  cml. 

89. 

Terry  Imamuro 

Lawrence  Kenny 

Albert  Roupp 

Mel  Skavaria 

Life  Drawing. 

Four  Studies  of  Plant  Life. 

c.  1959-60. 

Pencil  and  Ink  on  paper. 

11"  X  8y2"  (27.8  X  21.5  cm). 

Mounted  on  Illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

90. 

Tolee 

Freehand  Drawing. 

Seated  Male  Figure. 

Ink  wash  on  paper. 

23y2"  X  17%"  (59.7  X  45.1  cm). 

Mounted  on  Illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

91. 

Michael  Helder 

Life  Drawing. 

Seated  Male  Figure.  1966-67. 

Pencil  on  paper. 

24"  X   17%"  (61   X  45.1  cm). 

Mounted  on  Illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 


m 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


92. 

Eric  Anderson 

City  Planning  201. 

City  Block  Density  Studies. 

22  January  1948. 

InK  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

93. 

Anonymous 

City  Planning. 

Housing  Detail  of  Settlement  Unit. 

InK  on  Illustration  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

94. 

Anonymous 

City  Planning. 

Housing  and  Community  Buildings, 

Sun  Pentratlon  Studies. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

95. 

Alfred  Caldwell 

City  Planning. 

Density  Studies,  Comparison  of 

Building  Shapes. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

96. 

Anonymous 

City  Planning. 

Housing  and  Community  Buildings, 

Sun  Chart. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

20"  X  30"  (51   X  76  cm).* 


WINTER       LATITUDE    42    N, 


1 

^ 



1 

J 

i 

\- 

1 

1 

WK 


i>^i^^Fgt>.:>^-;p :-.  >;h 


■;J 

ijijE 

si 

t^ 


3=;5^~ 


I^^SC 


111 


NT      CURRICULUM 


97. 

C.  S.  Stanfield 
City  Planning. 
Settlement  Unit  Project. 
Ink  on  Illustration  board. 
29%"  X  7.IV1"  (75.7  X  57  cm).* 

98. 

Anonymous 

Regional  Planning. 

City  Along  a  River. 

Ink  and  wash  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  22 '72"  (76  X  57  cm).* 

99. 

Shields 

Regional  Planning. 

Rock  River  Valley.  Plan  and 

Variation. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm).* 

100. 

Architectural  Construction. 

a.  Traditional  Timber-Framed 
Building.  Scale  Model;  Oak.* 

b.  Traditional  Timber-Framed 
Building.  Scale  Model:  Oak.* 

c.  Prototype  Balloon  Frame 
Construction. 

Model:  Wood  House  on  Stone 

Walls. 

Basswood  and  Travertine. 

Scale:  'A"  =  r-0".* 

d.  Steel  Skeleton  Medium  Rise 
Building.  Scale  Model:  Metal.* 

e.  Long  Span  Open  Truss  System, 
200'  X  400'.  Model:  Metal. 
Scale:  1/16"  =  1'  0".* 


101. 

Anonymous 

Architecture  453-454. 

Model  of  Building  Groupings. 

Late  1950's. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  George  Danforth. 

102. 

George  Danforth 

House  with  Three  Courts,  c.  1940. 

Perspective  of  Bedroom  Wing. 

Photograph  by  Hedrlch  Blessing. 

103. 

George  Danforth 

Architecture  407.  408. 

Notebook  of  Design  Sketches  with 

Critiques  by  Mies.  1939-40. 

Notebook  with  pencil  on  tracing 

paper. 

9"  X  14y2"(23.9  X  36.8  cm). 

104. 

Thomas  Burleigh 

Student  File  with  Problems  and 

Information  Handouts  Given  to 

Students.  1947-48. 

File. 

1 1  %"  X  9'/2"  (29.8  X  24.1  cm). 

105. 

Exhibit  In  Skylight  Space  Outside 

Architecture  Department  Offices, 

Top  of  The  Art  Institute  of  Chicago. 

c.  1941. 

Photograph  by  Thomas  Burleigh. 

106. 

Eight  Images  of  the  Open  House 

Exhibit,  Alumni  Memorial  Hall, 

Illinois  Institute  of  Technology. 

c.  1947. 

Photographer  unknown.  Courtesy  of 

George  Danforth. 


107. 

Four  Views  Open  House  Exhibit, 

Second  Floor,  Armour  Mission, 

Armour  Institute  of  Technology. 

1942. 

Photograph  by  George  Storz. 

108. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

Five  Views  of  the  Mies  Exhibit  at  the 

Renaissance  Society.  1947. 

Photographs  by  Hedrlch  Blessing. 

109. 

Open  House  Exhibit  at  Lakevlew 

Building,  Chicago.  Model  of  10-Story 

Apartment  House  by  James 

Michaelson  and  R.  Ogden 

Hannaford.  1940-41. 

Photograph  by  R.  Ogden  Hannaford. 

110. 

Open  House  Exhibit,  Alumni 
Memorial  Hall,  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology,  c.  1948. 

a.  City  Planning  Model. 

b.  NT  Campus  Model. 

c.  Elevations  Studies. 

d-f.    General  Views  of  the  Exhibit. 
Photographs  by  Thomas  Burleigh. 


112 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


107 


113 


IIT      CURRICULUM 


wl'^ 


St^v^nS 


St^w^nS 


ir  ^       1 


\         \ 


\^  \ 


112 


''<■ 


^  /  /^rr 


V^c 


\ 


111. 

Five  Images  of  Faculty  Lecturing  at 
Alumni  Memorial  Hall,  Illinois 
Institute  of  Technology,  c.  1949. 
a-c.    A.  James  Speyer  and  Daniel 
Brenner  Holding  a  Class. 

d.  Peterhans  at  Podium. 

e.  Brenner  Critiquing  Drawings. 
Photographs  by  Lawrence  J. 
Harrison. 

112. 

Alfred  Mell  or  John  Rodgers 

Six  Sketches  of  Freshman  Drawing 

Exercises,  Working  Out  the  Courses 

with  Mies  and  Peterhans. 

C.  1938-39. 

Pencil  on  hotel  stationery. 

S'/z"  X  5V2"  (216  X  13.9  cm)  each. 

113. 

Lawrence  J.  Harrison 

Caricature  Sketch  of  A.  James 

Speyer,  Faculty  of  Architecture, 

Illinois  Institute  of  Technology. 

c.  1949. 

Pencil  on  note  paper. 

5%"  X  8  %■'  (15  X  21.1  cm). 


114. 

Hilberselmer  Giving  a  Critique  to 

Students,  The  Art  Institute  of 

Chicago,  c.  1941. 

Photograph  by  R.  Schneider. 

Courtesy  of  Thomas  Burleigh. 

115. 

Hilberselmer  with  Students,  c.  1955. 

Photograph  by  R.  J.  Martin. 

Lent  by  Marcia  Gray  Martin. 

116. 

Hilberselmer  with  Junior  Students, 

John  Randall  and  Henry  Boles  (r.). 

c.  1941. 

Photograph  by  Thomas  Burleigh. 

117. 

Two  images  of  Mies  at 

Hllberseimer's  Day  Party, 

Art  Institute  of  Chicago,  Corridor. 

21  December  1942. 

Photograph  by  Thomas  Burleigh. 

118. 

Mies  Giving  a  Critique  to  Student, 

Drafting  Room  at  The  Art  Institute  of 

Chicago,  c.  1941. 

Photograph  by  R.  Schneider. 

Courtesy  of  Thomas  Burleigh. 

119. 

Four  Images  of  Hllberseimer's  Day  in 
the  Loop,  Chicago,  c.  1941. 
Photographer  unknown. 
Courtesy  of  Thomas  Burleigh. 

120. 

Image  of  Hilberselmer,  Signed  by  the 

Class  of  1949  on  the  Back.  c.  1949. 

Photographer  unknown. 

6%"  X  4y4"  (17.2  X  12.2  cm). 


121. 

Hilberselmer  Giving  a  Critique  to 
Students,  c.  1949. 
Photographer  unknown. 
Courtesy  of  Lawrence  J.  Harrison. 

122. 

Mies  at  Open  House  Exhibit,  Alumni 

Memorial  Hall,  Illinois  Institute  of 

Technology.  1949. 

Photographer  unknown. 

Courtesy  of  Lawrence  J.  Harrison. 

123. 

Mies  in  S.  R.  Crown  Hall,  Illinois 
Institute  of  Technology.  Mld-1950's. 
Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

124. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

a.  Resor  House.  Second  Scheme. 
Model,  c.  1938. 

Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

b.  Hi-Way  Restaurant  Project, 
Indianapolis.  Model.  1946. 

1 .  Photograph  by  Hedrich 
Blessing. 

2.  Photograph.  Courtesy  of  Feico 
Glastra  van  Loon. 

c.  860  and  880  Lake  Shore  Drive, 
Chicago. 

Under  construction,  c.  1951. 
Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 


113 


114 


117 


/nf-C^i^zuAs^ 


^  ^^C^M./^^^^o^'^sJ^ 


r  /:  .<„--6. 


^^^^ 


118 


4 


NT      AS      A      MODEL     OF 

A      UNIVERSITY     CAMPUS 


The  alternative  plans  for  the  NT  campus  which  Mies  studied  beginning 
in  1938,  show  how  he  worked  comparatively  in  seeking  to  discover  the 
best  solution  to  a  problem.  One  proposes  a  campus  in  which  the  ex- 
pression of  function  is  the  dominant  issue,  while  the  other  presents  a 
campus  based  on  regular  structure.  In  choosing  the  design  ordered  by 
structure  Mies  believed  he  had  achieved  a  plan  which  would  be  clearer 
for  users,  better  able  to  guide  and  accommodate  later  additions  and 
more  expressive  of  the  values  of  a  modern  university  in  relation  to  the 
city. 

In  the  sketches  for  S.R.  Crown  Hall  exhibited  here  Mies  shows  the 
Inventiveness  that  characterized  his  entire  career.  Although  the  final 
form,  structure  and  expression  of  the  building  had  been  suggested  and 
explored  in  projects  which  he  had  studied  for  some  time,  his  studies  of 
stairs  for  the  building  show  Mies  considering  various  possibilities.  Not 
only  do  these  sketches  show  him  dealing  with  the  horizontal  plane  in 
terms  similar  to  a  wall,  they  also  show  a  flexibility  of  approach  which  at 
the  outset  rejects  ordinary  habits  and  assumptions. 


116 


NT      AS      A      MODEL      OF      A      UNIVERSITY      CAMPUS 


125. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

S.  R.  Crown  Hall,  Illinois  Institute  of 

Technology.  Chicago. 

Under  construction,  c.  1955. 

Photograph  by  Hedrlch  Blessing. 

126. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

Joseph  FujlKawa 

a.  Eight  sketch  studies  for  S.  R. 
Crown  Hall.  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology. 

Early  1950's. 

Pencil  on  note  paper. 

6"'x  8'A"  (15.1    X  21.1  cm).* 

b.  Six  sketch  studies  for 

S.  R.  Crown  Hall.  Interiors. 

Early  1950s. 

Pencil  on  note  paper. 

5"  X  7V4"  (12.5  X  18.5  cm)  and 

6"  X  B'A'MIS.I   X  21.1  cm).* 


Eight  sketch  studies  for  S.  R. 

Crown  Hall.  Early  1950s. 

Pencil  on  note  paper. 

6"  X  8V4-  (15.1    X  21.1  cm)* 

Eight  sketch  studies  for  S.  R. 

Crown  Hall.  Early  1950's. 

Pencil  on  note  paper. 

6"  X  8'/."  (15.1   X  21.1  cm).* 


-WHtfTl 


t\^dvm^^^^: 


117 


NT      AS      A      MODEL     OF      A      UNIVERSITY      CAMPUS 


I     •!' 


l^-V 


4^-^^ 


N    \ 


*;^ 


M 


^^. 

y  o- 


-m. 


.>3f: 


f~.-.l 


i       1 


K—  --. 


'M 

-■C7^ 

■   :<t 

^x  -• 

( -  '■ 

-*.^..-> 

'  '-^>; 

^. 


..--■m^' 


i/T 


-.::--^ 


I.' 


•:-T" 


r:. 


-\ 


-.- ■  V 


r/' 


s  -^j^:-  ■■:■■ 


J' 


126c 


1  18 


IIT      AS      A      MODEL     OF      A      UNIVERSITY      CAMPUS 


127. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 
Pace  Associates 
S.  R.  Crown  Hall.  Construction 
Drawings.  1955. 

a.  Sheet  A3  —  ground  floor  plan. 

b.  Sheet  A4  —  elevations. 

c.  Sheet  A5  —  t)ulldlng  sections, 
roof  and  penthouse. 

d.  Sheet  A6  —  exterior  wall  detail. 
Pencil  on  linen. 

Lent  by  the  Chicago  Historical 
Society. 

128. 

S.  R.  Crown  Hall  Dedication.  Illinois 
Institute  of  Technology. 
30  April  1956. 

a.  Speaker  Walter  A.  Bletcher,  City 
Planning  Consultant. 

b.  John  Rettaliata,  President  of  IIT 
with  Mies. 

c.  Mies  Giving  Rettaliata  the  Gold 
Key  to  S.  R.  Crown  Hall. 

d.  Luncheon  Preceding  Dedication. 
Mayor  Richard  J.  Daley  with  John 
Rettaliata  and  Members  of  the 
Crown  Family. 

Photographs  by  Arthur  Siegel. 


129. 

Three  Images  of  the  Illinois  Institute 

of  Technology  and  Environs. 

Early  1940's. 

Photograph  by  Thomas  Burleigh. 

130. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 
Buildings  on  Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology  Campus. 

a.  Metals  and  Minerals  Building. 
1943. 

b.  Alumni  Memorial  Hall.  1946. 

c.  Wlshnlck  Hall  Under 
Construction.  1945-46. 

d-e.    Perlsteln  Hall  Under 
Construction.  1945-46. 

f.  S.  R.  Crown  Hall  Under 
Construction.  1955-56. 

g.  S.  R.  Crown  Hall.  Interior.  1956. 
Photographs  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

131. 

Secretaries 

Architecture  Department.  Illinois 

Institute  of  Technology.  Diaries  of 

the  Architecture  Department, 

Including  Visitors,  Prospective 

Students,  Lectures,  Publications  and 

Exhibitions. 

a,  6  April  1948-21  July  1950. 

b.  1  August  1950-2  December  1954. 
3  ring  binder  with  typed  entries  and 
business  cards. 

9"  X  7"  (22.9  X   17.8  cm). 


128b 


119 


IIT      AS      A      MODEL     OF      A      UNIVERSITY      CAMPUS 


>         -■ 
■5     -s  - 


^!      : 


132a 


^f^ 


■V-J. 


120 


132. 

Adrian  Gayle 

Two  Drawings  of  Mies. 

a.  Mies  on  Slelghrlde. 

b.  Mies  Walking  In  the  Snow. 
Photostats  of  cartoon  drawings. 
eVe"  X  8"  (15.3  X  20.3  cm) 
and  6"  X  eVs"  (15.1  X  16.7  cm). 
Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

133. 

Mies  with  Sculpture  of  Himself  by 

Hugo  Weber,  c.  1961. 

8%"  X   13y4"(22  X  33.5  cml. 

Photograph  by  Richard  Nickel 

Lent  by  Richard  Nickel  Committee. 

134. 

Four  Images  of  Werner  Graeff  with 

Mies  and  George  Danforth  in 

Chicago.  October  1968. 

Photographer  unknown. 

Lent  by  George  Danforth. 


135. 

Experimental  photograph  of  Mies 

van  der  Rohe.  c.  1954. 

Signed  by  Mies. 

Photographer  unknown. 

14'/8"  X    1iy4"(36.4  X  29.8cm). 

Lent  by  Edward  A.  Duckett. 

136. 

Inland  Architect 

American  Institute  of  Architects, 

Chicago  Chapter.  November  1963. 

"Mies  van  der  Rohe  Twenty-Five 

Years  of  Work  in  Chicago." 

Lent  by  John  Vinci. 

137. 

Mies  and  Hilberseimer  in  Farmer's 

Field,  Dorchester  and  49th,  Chicago. 

c.  1940. 

Photographer  unknown. 

5"  X  4"  (12.7  X   10.2  cml. 

Lent  by  George  Danforth. 


138. 

Mies  and  Alfred  Caldwell  on  ilT 

Campus. 

c.  1947. 

Photograph  by  Thomas  Burleigh. 


139. 

Mies  on  a  Bench  at  the  Beach.  1949. 
Photograph  by  E.  Campbell. 
Courtesy  of  Lawrence  J.  Harrison. 


IT      AS      A      MODEL     OF      A      UNIVERSITY      CAMPUS 


140. 

Three  Images  of  a  Class  Picnic  at  the 
Indiana  Dunes.  1949. 
Photographs  by  MarK  Flnfer. 

141. 

Three  Images  of  Mies  at  WTTW-TV, 

Chicago,  for  the  Heritage  Series. 

Early  1960's. 

Photographer  unknown. 

Lent  tjy  George  Danforth. 

142. 

Walter  Peterhans  at  a  Louis 

Armstrong  Concert  at  the  Blue  Note 

Nightclub,  Chicago,  c.  1950. 

Photographer  unknown. 

7"  X  5"  (17.6  X   12.5  cm). 

Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

143. 

Norman  Ross 

■Mies  van  der  Rohe."  c.  1957. 

Edited  version. 

Film  by  Ross-McElroy  Productions, 

Chicago. 


134 


121 


5 


GRADUATE     STUDIES     UNDER 
MIES      1938-1958 


In  his  early  graduate  teaching,  Mies  directed  students  towards  abstract 
issues  at  the  juncture  of  architectural  practice  and  social  values: 
schools,  churches,  museums.  Problems  were  studied  comparatively 
and  historically  to  understand  the  relation  between  expression  and 
values  in  other  places  at  other  times.  Later  students  became  increas- 
ingly interested  in  problems  of  actual  building,  and  spent  less  time 
considering  them  in  terms  of  their  social  function.  At  about  the  same 
time  these  projects  became  refinements  of  worK  iviies  had  already 
explored,  rather  than  investigations  of  ideas  that  he  was  then  consider- 
ing. The  problems  of  very  large  structures  received  greater  attention. 
They  were  studied  with  respect  to  the  most  advanced  structural  tech- 
niques available  and  to  the  questions  of  scale.  It  was  assumed  that  the 
nature  of  the  problems  suggested  an  appropriate  structural  order.  The 
architectural  solution  then  became  the  expression  of  that  order.  The 
major  means  in  solving  the  question  of  scale  emerged  through  studies 
of  proportion.  These  issues  have  been  pursued  principally  through  the 
influence  and  teaching  of  Myron  Goldsmith,  David  Sharpe  and  the  late 
Fazlur  Khan. 


il        ■    III    III'  '  f! 


122 


111       'Jijiiiiiii.' 


-III 


192h 


I       imiii  II  II  nil  I 

r     ■'    j«:;,r"!  iin' 

I        '  "I  «•'•  i"!."!  8 

Mil  II  II        Tf  lirir    i 

j  ■■■■  •*•<!■■■  '■■•>•' 

II   11 

IM        I  Hl'ir 

III  '    % 

llii4HII     g.     I   11 
-       |||>«>*!   -^'^ 

I  iiiiiiiniii  il 
^lir'i'iii       I     I   iiijiif  _ 

iiiV"  I.,!   •   :_i      L  ■ 

Jill  illl    11    II    I        pr 

3;^'— iiiiiiir  ■     fi^  il    ' 
li^  !•     •■•iiiirvL  _iii  i  ii|^; 

iiiii"i!iir  ■•— "■■••III' 
ii  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiirr   III  III 
i  ii'ii  tiiiiiir'iiiiiij  Ml? 

ill     iMiiriiiii' Miih 
.fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifijiiii?f  . 
>iiii!iiiiiri!Vfrfiiiiiiiiiiii 
•      liiiiin  iiiiiijiiiiiii"* 

■•■     "•Hill     ■■■lililltlll 

-  ?;:  ..L  ...  imiiiimiiH 
......  liiiii*.  iif    „||i...  ji 

V  iiii   iiii   iiiiiir*'"'iiiiii 
iiiiiiiir'^f  ■• 

i.     iillllHIIIMIIIIillllllllli 


mmm 

jnjKr:^"::"-' 


!',:jkBiite.-'« 


.■us 


^»jffjrrryi 


WW^tWtffiiMPMMJ^tT' 


irimiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiii 


A 


144. 

Anonymous 

Graduate. 

Regional  Planning. 

Part  of  a  Replanned  City  on  Hilly 

Ground. 

Colored  Inks  and  wash  on 

Strathmore  board. 

40"  X  30"  (101.6  X  76  cm).* 


145. 

Anonymous 
Graduate. 
Regional  Planning. 

a.  Chicago,  View  from  Lake 
Michigan  to  Fox  River. 
Proposed  Study. 

b.  Chesapeake  Bay/Potomac  River 
Area. 

Proposed  Study. 
Air  brush,  Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 
40"  X  30"  (101.6  X  76  cm)  each.* 

146. 

Donald  Munson 

Warren  Spitz 

Graduate.  Regional  Planning. 

Regional  Study  of  Chicago,  c.  1931. 

Four  panels  a/b/c/d.  Existing 

Conditions. 

Four  panels  e/f/g/h.  Proposed 

Solution. 

Ink  and  wash  on  Strathmore  board. 

40"  X  30"  (101.6  X  76  cm)  each.* 


»&i 


,s*^' 


/ 


'-Ji.'r.!U< .  - -_  >Jsa 


i-SS^ 


^^ 


S.JI 


^«s^ 


CHICAGO         VIEW    FROM    LAKE    MICHIGAN    TO    THE    FOX    RIVER 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


148a 


124 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


147. 

A.  James  Speyer 

Graduate.  Advanced  Architecture  I 

501,  502. 

Courthouse  Problem.  Perspective. 

1939. 

Collage  witti  pencil  on  Strathmore 

board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm).* 


148. 

George  Danforth 

Graduate.  Advanced  Archiltecture  I 

501,  502.  1941. 

a.  Wall  Problem  Composition. 
Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 
20"  X  30"  (51    X  76  cm), 

b.  Residence  with  a  Court. 
Perspective  done  under  Mies  and 
Peterhans. 

Collage  with  pencil  on 

Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X   101.6  cm). 

149. 

George  Danforth  (Layout) 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

(Delineation  and  Composition) 

Graduate.  Advanced  Architecture  I 

501,  502. 

Residence  with  a  Court.  Perspective. 

Collage  and  pencil  on  illustration 

board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X   101.6  cm). 


148b 


125 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


126 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


150. 

Reginald  Malcolmson 

Graduate.  Advanced  Architecture  I 

501,  502. 

a.  Concert  Hall  In  a  Factory.  1947. 
Photo  collage  on  Illustration 
board. 

15"  X  31  'A"  (38  X  79.5  cm). 

b.  Skyscraper  Studies  of  Curtain 
Wall.  1948. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board. 
30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm). 


151. 

Jose  Polar 

Graduate.  Advanced  Architecture  I 

501.  502. 

Courthouse  Problem.  Plans. 

1949-50. 

Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 

20"  X  30"  (51    X  76  cm).* 

152. 

Gene  R.  Summers 

Graduate.  Advanced  Architecture 

501,  502. 

Courthouse  Problem.  Plans. 

8  December  1949. 

Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 

20"  X  30"  (51    X  76  cm).* 


-:j^44--^-r|^^r-hj-ix- 

!      i                       \      \                                                              1 

1            i   •   1                              ! 

1       {           '    j                     1              i 

-r-r-f—    -. : [  -N-j [4 

M    '    :               II                              i 

.1                   1            i      '                                            ' 

■            1      1  i                       '      ■ 

!    i            1    j    i    1    !                   '                       ' 

;                ;       i   i                1                   : 

!          !~        '   i   ^                ~t   i      i   '   ' 

ill                     !            : 

;    '                         1 

II                         1 

^^>        ^           .                         1        it 

^^      '    '    '                J       ^     it 

!        i                            III 

i        ,        •                    111 

'                         !     1             1 

I 


-\i\\      1       [   ui.^          

--    -  -    -  1 1 1- 

1   L        1                  i 

r                 [    I    r 

.-1      1 

■ 1 — -i ^ *-'  '-' — ' — ■ 

152 


127 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


fflS^^^^ 

' s 

1 

^^ 

Imiijiii^^ 

^s^ 

iipiw^WiSwmiiiiBisii 


128 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


153. 

Gene  R.  Summers 

Graduate.  Advanced  Architecture 

501,  502. 

Three  Story  Skeleton  Structure. 

Elevation  Studies. 

a.  Steel  Structure.  13  March  1950. 

b.  Concrete  Structure.  4  April  1950. 
Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm)  each.* 


154. 

Anonymous 

Graduate.  Advanced  Architecture  I. 

Courthouse  Problem,  c.  1950's. 

a.  Series  of  three  plans. 

b.  Series  of  three  plans. 
Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 
20"  X  30"  (51    X  76  cm)  each.* 

155. 

A.  James  Speyer 

Graduate  Thesis.  "The  Space 

Concept  In  Modern  Domestic 

Architecture."  Various  Illustrations 

from  thesis.  1938.  Photographs. 


153b 


129 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


156. 

Charles  Worley 

Graduate  Thesis.  "A  School  for  Art 

and  Architecture."  1941. 

a.  Building  Types  Investigated  and 
Rejected. 

b.  Front  Elevation  of  the  School. 
Photographs. 

157. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

George  Danforth 

Thirteen  Sketches:  Museum  for  a 

Small  City.  c.  1939-42. 

a-d:    6"  X  8'A"(15.2  x  21  cm). 

e-j:      6"  X  7"  (15.2.  x   17.8  cm). 

k-m:  aVi"  X  13"  (21.5  X  33  cm). 

158. 

Charles  Genther 

Graduate  Thesis  (unfinished). 

"Towards  a  New  Architecture." 

1942-43. 

Various  illustrations  from  thesis. 

Photographs. 


156a 


--1- 


1 


!  1. 


J  _.[  :''m  I 


•>^  I 


rr  r 


•  / 


.]....  .L.., 


k4 

'I   li 


9'^-fcjSk 


I     '■/■w   <- 

.  .,!.    ..L,-i.. 


-A 


4X 


156b 


130 


■T 


\M.'ljji.-».im'i''L, 


If    S 


1    !L„,, 


1 


i  .  --,,..^ 


.-'^ 


157c 


S^ 


-,;f-. 


157d 


■4 


) , 


4.  L^Ji.,... 


■^-  /.  i 


/4 


■  / 


131 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


•<-'-^--i*A.':- 


159 


^v 


161a 


132 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


159. 

Daniel  Brenner 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"An  Art  Museum."  1949. 

Model-Exterior  View. 

Photograph. 

160 

James  Ferris 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"The  Replanning  of  a  University 

Campus."  1951. 

Model-View  of  the  Campus  Looking 

West  Along  University  Avenue. 

Photograph. 

161. 

Wei  Tung  Lo 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"University  Administration  Building.' 

1951. 

a.  Model-Perspective. 

b.  Administration  Building  with 
Surrounding  Buildings. 

Photographs. 

162. 

Jose  Polar 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"The  Student  Dining  Hall."  1951. 

Model-Perspective. 

Photograph. 

163. 

Gene  R.  Summers 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"A  Fieidhouse."  1951. 

a.  Plan. 

b.  Elevation. 
Photographs. 


\ 

i 

1 

n 

+  s  t 

.    .r 

.      i-  •  - 

*• 

r    -^ 



!      1-- 

-- 

._(_      r 

-„_ 

— 

i — ~ 

" 

jjf» 

1 

1-i 

i 

i^i\ir-i^'/-  -^  V  ^ 
",^'^V:'i    -■■■•■ 


163b 


133 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


IS 


._x 


^i^jRaysR^^i^  M->»»^  I 


Hi. 


\\\  i^^  'ir 


II I  ^aik 


1 


165a 


134 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


164. 

David  J.  Tammlnga 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"Student  Housing  for  a  University 

Campus."  1951. 

a.  Tall  Concrete  Structure. 

b.  Tall  Steel  Structure  -  Study  I. 

c.  Dormitory  —  General  View. 

d.  Dormitory  Grouping. 
Photographs. 

165. 

Yau  Chun  Wong 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"The  Student  Union."  1951. 

a.  Model  —  Side  (south  or  north) 
View. 

b.  Model  —  General  View. 
Photograph. 


166. 

John  Sugden 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"An  Industrial  Exhibition  Hall."  1952. 

Model  —  Front  Elevation. 

Photograph. 

167. 

Edmond  N.  Zisook 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"A  Recreation  and  Social  Center  for 

Neighborhood  Community."  1952. 

Model  —  Front  Elevation. 

Photograph. 

168. 

Joseph  Fujikawa 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"A  Suburban  Shopping  Center." 

1953. 

a.  Store  —  Ground  Floor  Plan. 

b.  Perspective. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 
30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cm)  each. 


^T-  ir  tr  «,•«».„ 


0~  tf/^^^^^_ 


:^3v 


Rae-jgsV3?..tTas-jj>.ia^f».-»v^^.of.^ 


■^^^;^r^'-A-. 


168b 


135 


ilHIi 


0  oD  Eg 
9  m  m 


I  i 


m 


169. 

Myron  Goldsmith 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"The  Tall  Building:  The  Effects  of 

Scale.'  1953. 

a.  Plans. 

b.  Elevation. 

c.  Perspective. 

d.  Alternate  Elevations, 
ink  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  (76  X  101.6  cml  each. 


169a 


169b 


^ 


.fr/yv 


169d 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


137 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


138 


GRADUATE     STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


170. 

David  Hald 
Graduate  Thesis. 
•An  Art  Center."  1953. 

a.  Model  Exterior. 

b.  Model  Interior. 
Photographs  by  Hedrlch  Blessing. 

171. 

Jacques  Brownson 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"A  Steel  and  Glass  House."  1954. 

a.  Floor  Plan. 

b.  Roof  Hanger  Section. 

Ink  on  Strathmore  board.  Redrawn 
by  Elizabeth  Kunin.  1986. 
30"  X  20"  (76  X  51  cm)  each. 

c.  East  Elevation. 
Photograph. 


TRANSVERSE   GrRDER 


1 

- 

-- - - — 

n 

1  ■ 

- 

I 

«n..,iv..    - 

\^^ 

~l       i 

C 

^ 

Dcr- 

u 

QJUL 

□miZD 

T 1 

I-       5 

D 

\\\^^\\^\ 

\^~^~^~^"^^^ 

T 

S                                                                                     WF   ROOF  HANGER 
^                                                                                             6"   LONG 

.  -r    ...ril.'l.i    i  .l.Jrf^ 

■     '          '            ■          -          ■    '                           8"SQ    PITCH  POCK 
ROOF   FLASHING 

t,;;,:ia       ',     :;:„i    ,.,,, .!.Ll iJi  IjilLl.,., 

\   I          1   ,      :     ■     .          ]                     .   '  !■     ^   '!  !'  "    ','■  1  v]:'','",J'l'^]^l  l^)^| 

^                                               t                                                                                     

X 

T 

A 

s                                                                            STEEL  DECKING 

s^^-^^-<^-^ 

XX,\\V^^\; 

V///>/}/}/}/}/y 

>/}///)/}/ //////A 

10  WF  21   BEAM 


CHANNELS   4-0"  OC, 


x//////////y/////7/y/// ////// /A 


PLASTER   CEILING 


ROOF  HANGER   SECTION 


171b 


139 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


^ 


L 


u 


172b 


172c 


140 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


172. 

Pao  Chi  Chang 

Henry  Kanazawa 

Yujiro  Mlwa 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"A  Convention  Hall."  1954. 

a.    Model  —  Bird's  Eye  View. 

Model  —  Exterior  Corner  Detail. 

Model  —  Interior  Corner  Detail. 

Structural  System.  Perspective 

Section. 

e.  Preliminary  Studies  of  BlacK, 
Brown  and  Tan  Granite. 

f.  Elevation  Studies  In  Two  and 
Three  Colors. 

Photographs  a-c,  by  Hedrlch 
Blessing. 


b. 
c. 
d. 


173. 

Antonio  Caslmir  Ramos 

Jacob  Karl  VIks 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"Interior  Studies  of  a  Large  Hall." 

1955. 

A  Concert  Hall  —  Interior  View. 

Photograph. 


— 7r — /t- "  ^ — T^ — 7' — T7^ — y — -  /'  — gr"-„^.-^J'  z-^"- 


~^ 


..F 


-\- 


172d 


141 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


174. 

Jan  Llppert 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"A  Museum."  1956. 

Model  —  Exterior  View. 

Photograph. 


1          1          ! 

!           1 

I 



'"^ 

i          I 

1       1 

1 

t~i 

1          1 

t               1               ! 

! 

1 

1 

^/i""    "^ 

1 

i 

!               (               ' 

__     _   J 

1               i 

^ 

1    "^v 

I       ! 

1                  ^^^^^_                                       i 

i 

1 

i^V 

1 

^^^^^^^^^^ 

i 

1 

1 

\[          i          !          1 

1 

i       1 

P" 

^^^^ 

! 

r       i 

1       1 

1 

1        fl 

^^^^^^^^ 

_j 

i 

i      ^      .. 

!'           {        ■                         1    "^^^^ 



1 

1        1        1     ■<        1        1        .   -^^^^^ 

1 

175 


142 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


175. 

Reginald  Malcolmson 

Graduate  Thesis. 

■•A  Theatre."  1957. 

Elevation. 

Collage  on  Strathmore  board. 

30"  X  40"  176  y   101.6  cm). 

176. 

Peter  Carter 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"An  Art  Museum."  1958. 

a.  Structural  Framing.  Perspective. 

b.  Model  —  Exterior  Vlev\/. 
Photographs. 


143 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


^4.         Ah       - 


^». 


4-;^^  VA 


\^ 


v->^ 


fir  \^^ 


^^^4^ 


A«#/- 


*»   A* 


>s    J     -» 


177. 

Alfred  Caldwell 
Regional  Park  Plan.  1957. 
Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 
igVs"  X  24"  (48.7  X  60.9  cm). 
Collection:  American  Friends  of  the 
CCA  on  loan  to  Centre  Canadien 
d'Architecture/Canadian  Centre  for 
Architecture,  Montreal 

178. 

Alfred  Caldwell 

A  Proposed  Plan  for  Chicago.  1942. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

29%"  X  39%"  (76  X  101.5  cm  I. 

Collection:  American  Friends  of  the 

CCA  on  loan  to  Centre  Canadien 

d'Architecture/Canadian  Centre  for 

Architecture,  Montreal 

179. 

Alfred  Caldwell 

Landscape  Perspective  of  Small 

Houses  and  School.  1959. 

Pencil  on  Strathmore  board. 

17%"  X  23%"  (45  X  60.8  cm). 

Collection:  American  Friends  of  the 

CCA  on  loan  to  Centre  Canadien 

d'Architecture/Canadian  Centre  for 

Architecture,  Montreal 


144 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


180. 

Phil  Hart  and  others 

Advanced  Architecture  I. 

a-b.    50'  X  50'  House  Problem,  c. 

1951. 
Model  In  Landscape  Setting. 
Photographs  by  Hedrlch  Blessing. 

181. 

Abdel-Monhelm  Hassan  Kamel 

Graduate  Thesis. 

"Concert  Hall."  1949. 

Model  In  Open  House  Exhibit. 

Photograph. 

Courtesy  of  George  Danforth. 

182. 

Convention  Hall  Project,  Chicago. 

1953. 

Color  photograph  of  collage  In  the 

collection  of  Museum  of  Modern  Art. 


180b 


145 


GRADUATE      STUDIES      UNDER      MIES 


183. 

Open  House  Exhibit,  Alumni 

IVlemoriai  Hall,  Illinois  Institute  of 

Technology,  c.  1947. 

Photograph  by  Feico  Giastra  van 

Loon. 

184. 

Open  House,  Senior  Rooms,  Alumni 
Memorial  Haii,  liiinois  Institute  of 
Technology.  300'  x  300'  Long  Span 
Structure  (Brenner,  Duniap  and 
Malcoimson).  1947-48. 
Photograph  by  Reginald 
Malcoimson. 

185. 

Open  House  Exhibit,  Aiumni 

Memorial  Hall,  Illinois  institute  of 

Technology.  Kamei's  Model. 

1947-48. 

Photograph  by  Reginald 

Malcoimson. 

186. 

Hilberseimer's  Graduate  Seminar. 

1948. 

Photographer  unknown. 

Courtesy  of  Reginald  Malcoimson. 

187. 

Two  Images  of  Mies  Studying  Model 

With  Students,  c.  1948-49. 

Photographer  unknown. 

Courtesy  of  Feico  Giastra  van  Loon. 


188. 

Three  images  of  Hilberseimer's  Day 

Party.  21  December  1961. 

Color  photographs. 

2%"  X  3%"  (6.6  X  8.7  cm). 

Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

189. 

Eight  Images  of  Mies's  75th  Birthday 

Party  at  Charles  Genther's 

Apartment,  860  Lake  Shore  Drive, 

Chicago.  1961. 

Polaroid  photographs. 

Lent  by  George  Danforth. 

190. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

Philip  Johnson 

The  Seagram  Building,  New  York. 

1957. 

Photograph  by  Malcolm  Smith. 

Lent  by  John  Burgee  Architects  with 

Philip  Johnson. 

191. 

Ludwig  Mies  van  der  Rohe 

Ludwig  Hilberseimer 

Alfred  Caldwell 

Lafayette  Park.  c.  1958. 

Model  —  Bird's  Eye  View. 

Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 


188 


146 


192. 

Ludwig  Mies  Van  der  Rohe 

a.  Promontory  Apartments, 
Chicago.  1949. 

Photograph  Py  Hedrich  Blessing. 

b.  Farnsworth  House,  Piano,  Illinois. 
1950. 

Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

c.  860  and  880  Lake  Shore  Drive, 
Chicago.  1951. 

Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

d.  National  Theatre  of  the  City  of 
Mannheim,  Project.  1953. 
Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

e.  S.R.  Crown  Hall.  Illinois  Institute 
of  Technology.  1956. 
Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

f.  Bacardi  Office  Building  Project, 
Santiago  de  Cuba.  1957. 
Model. 

Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 

g.  The  Federal  Center,  Chicago. 
1964. 

Photograph  by  Hedrich  Blessing. 


192b 


1920 


"jy^'^^n 


192f 


APPENDIX 


IIT    COURSES    IN    ARCH  ITECTURE,    1938-1958 

Note:  Odd  numbered  courses  usually  indicate  the  Fall  Semester  and  even  numbered  courses  usually  indicate  the  Spring  Semester. 

■38-'39  SQ-MO         ■40-'41         ■41-42         '42-'43         '43-44         •44-'45         '45-'46  AB-Al  ^/-^S 


107 
108 
109 
110 
201 
202 
203 
204 
205 


207 
208 
209 
210 
211 
212 
213 
214 
215 
216 


■48-'49 


•54-'55 


■55-'56 


■56-'57 


■57-'58 


101 
102 
103 
104 

105 

-nt-     Freehand  Drawing 
1Ub    ^^^^-— ^— ^ 


Applied  Descriptive  Geometry 


Applied  Descriptive  Geometry 


Freehand  Drawing 


Arch, 


Elementary  Drafting 


Arch 


Elementary  Drafting 


Arch  Theory 
and  Visual  Training 


Arch    Const, 


Arch    Const. 


Architectural  History 


Architectural  History 


Freehand  Drawing 


„P„      Freehand  Drawing 

luiaterials  and  Construction 


IVIaterials  and  Construction 


Architectural  Theory 
and  Visual  Training 


Arch,  Theory 
and  Visual  Training 


Axonometric  Geometry 


Perspective  Drawing 


Visual  Training 


Visual  Training 


Life  Drawing 


Life  Drawing 


Life  Drawing 


Life  Drawing 


Architectural  History 


Architectural  History 


Materials  and  Construction 


Materials  and  Construction 


Life  Drawing 


Life  Drawing 


101 
102 
103 
104 
105 
106 
107 
108 
109 
110 
201 
202 
203 
204 
205 
206 
207 
208 
209 
210 
211 
212 
213 
214 
215 
216 


151 


NT      COURSES      IN      ARCHITECTURE 


•38-39 


■39-'40 


■40-'41 


■41-'42 


'42-'43 


•43-'44 


■44-45 


'45-'46 


■46-'47 


■47-'48 


■48-'49 


313 
314 
401 
402 
403 
404 
405 
406 
407 
408 
409 
410 
411 
412 
413 
414 


Architectural  History 


Architectural  History 


301 

302 

303 

304 

305 

306 

307 

308 

309 

310 

311  

Visual  Reinf.  Cone. 

o^lP      Training        Const  Architectural  Construction 


Freehand 
Drawing 


Theory  and  Design  of 
Dwellings  and  Housing 


■49-'50 

•50-'51 

■51-'52 

■52-'53 

'53-'54 

•54-'55 

•55-'56 

•56-'57 

•57-'58 

Arch   Practice                i 

Arch   Practice 

Architectural  Practice 

Architectural  Practice 

Visual  Training 


Visual  Training 


Dwellings 


Housing 


Theory  and  Design  of         Community  and 
Dwellings  and  Housing       Public  Buildings 


Visual 
Training 


Architectural  Construction 


Arch 


Cons' 

Arch, 
Const 

Analysis  of  Art 
;                     Analysis  of  Art 

— 

Architectural  Practice 

Architectural  Practice 


Architecture 

Architectural  History 

Architectural  History 

\                   1 

I 

i 

i 

i 

Architecture 


Architecture 


Architecture 


Housing  and  Community  Buildings 


Housing  Development 


Seminar 


Seminar 


City  Planning 

Theory  of  City  Planning 

City  Planning 

Analysis  of  Art 

Theory  of  City  Planning 

Analysis  of/ 

Arch   Theory  and 
Arch  and  Culture 

!                            1 

J                     Arch.  Theory  and 
Arch,  and  Culture 

Analysis  of  Art 

History  and  Analysis  of  Art 

Ut 

History  and  Analysis  of  Art 

Analysis  of  Art 

301^^ 
302 

303 
304 
305 
306 

307  c 
Z 

308  o 
31 

309 

310 

311 

312 

313 

314 

401 

402 

403 

404 

405 

406 
W 

407  t^ 

Z 

408  O 

409 
410 
411 
412 
413 
414 


152 


IIT     COURSES      IN      ARCHITECTURE 


■38-39 


'39-'40 


•40-'41 


■41-'42 


'42-'43 


■43-'44 


'44-'45 


■45-'46 


■46-'47 


'47-'48         •48-'49 


'49-'50         'SO-'SI 


415 

416 

417    i 

418 

420 

443 

444    I 

453 

454 
455 
456 
458 
459 
460 
461 
462 
463 
464 
465 
466 
493 
494 


Seminar 


Seminar 


'51-52 


Hist  and  Analysis 
of  Art 


52-'53         ■53-'54         ■54-'55 
Analysis  of  Art 


■55-56 


Hist  and  Analysis 
of  Art 


!  Architecture 


■  Arctiitecture 


Architecture 


Architecture 


Analysis  ol  Art 


Technics  and  Architecture 
Technics  and  Architecture 
Applied  City  Planning 


Architecture 


Architecture 


Theory  of  Regional  Planning 


Theory  of  Regional  Planning 

Applied  Regional  Planning 

Physical  Factors  of  Planning 
Analysis  and  Representation 

Physical  Factors  of  Planning 
Analysis  and  Representation 

History  and  Analysis  of  Cities 

Architecture  of  Cities 

City  Planning  Practice 

City  Planning  Practice 


'56-'57         ■57-'58 


415 

1 

416 

1 

(J) 

417 

m 

z 

418 

0 

3) 

420 

- 

> 

443 

:a 

o 

T 

444 

H 

m 

453 

0 

H 

454 

C 

JO 

m 

45b 

456 

458 

459 

460 

w 

r^ 

461 

z 

0 

462 

7} 

463 

— 

U 

r 

464 

> 

z 

465 

z 

z 

466 

G) 

493 

494 

153 


IT      COURSES      IN      ARCHITECTURE 


501 

502 
503 
504 
505 
506 
507 
508 
509 
510 
511 
512 
521 
522 
591 
592 
593 
594 
595 
597 
599 
600 
691 
692 
699 


■38-'39         39-40     ,     ^O-^l 

j  I 

Advanced  Architecture  I 


•41-'42         '42-'43 

i  ' 

I  i 


■43-'44 


■44-'45 


•45-'46 


'46-'47 


■47-'48 


■48-'49 


■49-'50 


■50-'51 


■51-'52 


Advanced  Arctiitecture  I 


Ttieory  of  Dwelling  and  Housing 


Ttieory  of  Dwelling  and  Housing 


Theory  of  City  Planning 


Theory  of  City  Planning 


Theory  of  Regional  Planning 


Theory  of  Regional  Planning 


Applied  City  Planning 


Applied  City  Planning 


Applied  Regional  Planning 


Applied  Regional  Planning 


Thesis 


Thesis 


'52-'53 


•53-'54 


■54-'55 


■55-'56 


■56-'57 


■57-'58 


Advanced  Architecture 


Advanced  Architecture 


Special  Problems 


Special  Problems 


Special  Problems 


Thesis 


Special  Problems 


Ph  0 


PhD 


PhD 


PhD 


501 
502 
503 
504 
505 
506 
507 
508 
509 
510 

511 

O 

512  a 

> 

521  O 

> 

522  -\ 
m 

591 
592 
593 
594 
595 
597 
599 
600 
691 
692 
699 


154 


NT     ARCHITECTURE      FACULTY     AND     STUDENTS,     1938-1958 

Compiled  by  Donna  J.  Junkroski 


FACULTY 

COURSES  TAUGHT  WITH  DATES  IN  PARENTHESES. 

ANSCHUETZ,  KLAUS  (55-57)  461 ,  462 

BAR,  NELLIE  (50-51)  215.  216.  (50-58)  109.110 

BLUESTEIN,  EARL  (46-52)  308.  (48-52)  307,  (46-49)  410; 

(52-55)  409,  410;  (53-55)  420,  461 ,  462 

BRENNER,  DANIEL  (48-50)  407,  408;  (48-51 )  493,  494; 

(50-63)  403,  404;  (53-59)  417, 418;  (55-56)  413. 416 

BROWNSON,  JACQUES  (48-52)  409.  410,  (52-55)  103, 104, 

107, 108;  (55-58)309,  310 

CALDWELL,  ALFRED  (45-50) 203,  204,  207,  (45-60)  311 , 

312;  (46-47)  208;  (47-48)  208,  (50-58)  209,  210.  213,  21 4 

DANFORTH,  GEORGEE.  (40-43)  101,102, 107, 108;  (46-47) 

102, 108;  (46-49)207,  208;  (49-52)211 , 212; (50-52)305, 

306,(52-53)403,404 

OEARSTYNE,  HOWARD  (57-58)413, 414,  415,  416.  443. 

444 

DORNBUSCH,  CHARLES  (38-39)  201 .  202.  203,  313,31 4; 

(39-40)307,308,312,402,410 

DUCKEn,  EDWARD  (45-49)  101 ,  107;  (46-49)  1 02, 1 08 

DUNLAP.WILLIAME.  (49-50) 207;  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 

108 

ERNST,  HENRY  (55-58)  303,  304 

FORSBERG,  ELMER  (45-50)  105.  205;  (46-50)  106,  206 

HARPER,  STERLING  (38-39)  102,  402;  (38-40)  401 ;  (38-39) 

101,107,204 

HILBERSEIMER,  LUDWIG  (38-42)  409;  (38-50)  307. 308. 

410:  (39-40)  303,  304;  (40-43)  507,  (41-42)  504,  506.  512, 

591 ;  (41  -43)  503,  505;  (43-44)  31 3,411;  (43-45)  312,31 4; 

(43-50)409,(44-45)107,108,311,412.509,510,(44-46) 

503,  508,  (45-  46)  102,  505.  506,  591;  (45-47)  501 ;  (46-47) 

51 0;  (46-48)  592;  (46-49)  504;  (47-48)  506.  51 2;  (47-49) 

507,  594;  (47-  55)  508;  (47-58)  509.  (47-59)  505;  (48-49) 

503, 591 ; (49-50) 510; (49-51 )  511 ,  595; (49-54) 699; 

(50-51 )  593;  (50-53) 455,  456,  458,  594;  (51  -52)  512,  599; 

(52-53) 51 0 ,  51 1 ;  (53- 60)  560;  (53-61 ) 459; (54-55) 599; 


(55-57) 51 0; (55-58) 51 2;  (55-59) 511. (56-57) 591 , (56-58) 

508.599.(57-58)506,692 

HOFGESANG,  JAMES  (49-50)  101, 102;  (49-52)  107, 108; 

(50-52)103,104 

HOSKINS,  TOM  (42-45)  402.  (43-44)  401 

KREHBIEL,  ALBERTA.  (38-40)305;  (38-45)  105, 106,  205. 

206 

KROnA,  JOSEPH  (55-56)  104. 108;  (56-58)  409.  420 

LILIBRIDGE,  ROBERT  (55-58)  465.  (55-58)  466,  (57-58)  408 

MALCOLMSON,  REGINALD (49-50)307,  308,  311,  312; 

(52-53)  307,  308;  (53-55)  309,  310;  (53-60)  464,  (53-61 ) 

463;  (54-55)  405,  (55-56)  420,  462,  501 ,  521 ,  522,  591 . 

(55-58)  409;  (57- 58)  420 

MELL,  ALFRED  (38-39)  207;  (39-40)  101 ,  102, 107, 108; 

(40-41)  308, (40-42) 307, (40-43) 312; (40-44) 311 , (41-43) 

204, 208; (42-44)  203,  207 

MIES  VAN  DER  ROHE,  LUDWIG  (38-39)  107;  (38-47)  407, 

408;  (39-55) 501 ; (39-55) 502; (42-43) 401 ,  409,  411 ,  506, 

508,  509,  51 1 .  592,  (42-46)  591 ,  (43-44)  412,  503,  504; 

(43-45)  211 ,  (43-  46)  505;  (44-45)  101 .  102,  203,  204.  207, 

208,  21 2,  401 ;  (45-46)  503,  508;  (46-47)  592;  (47-55)  591 ; 

(48-54)  521 ,  599,  (49-53)  522;  (53-54)  597;  (55-56)  597, 

599;  599;  (56-  58)  501 ,  502,  521 ;  (56-57)  522;  (57-58)  503, 

510,591,592,599,600 

OSBORN,  ADDIS  (45-46)  106.  206 

PETERHANS,  WALTER  (38-39)  108,  311 ,  312;  (39-41)  109; 

(39-42)  210,  403, 404,  411 ;  (39-43)  211,412;  (40-42)  303, 

304;  (41-43)  212;  (42-43)  313,  314;  (42-45)  102;  (44-45) 

101 ;  (44-50)  411 .  412,  (45-59)  211;  (46-50)  314;  (46-59) 

212; (48-52) 593, (49-51 ) 594; (49-59)  305,  306;  (50-55) 

413,  41 4;  (51  -55)415,416;  (55-56)  593.  594;  (56-57)  414, 

415. 416; (56- 58) 597 

PRIESTLEY,  WILLIAM  (41-42)  203. 207;  (54-56)  521 ; 

(55-56)502,522,591 

ROCKWELL,  MAHHEW  (53-55)  465,  466 

RODGERS,  JOHN  B.  (38-39)  202;  (38-41 )  208,  (38-42)  207; 

(39-41 )  203,  204;  (40-42)  401 ,  402;  (41-42)  407,  408 

SHUMA,  WILLIAM  F.  (46-49)  401 ,  402 

SPEYER,  A.  JAMES  (46-47)  501 ;  (46-50)  407,  408;  (47-51 ) 


495;  (48-  51 )  493;  (50-51 )  403,  404;  (51  -53)  453,  454; 

(53-57)443,444 

STOPA,  WALTER  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  402,  (50-55)  303,  304 

TAMMINGA,  DAVID  J.  (50-52)213,  214 

TURCK  (HILL),  DOROTHY  (54-58)  103, 107;  (56-58)  104, 

108 

WALKER,  ROBIN  (57-58)  462 

WIEGHARDT,  PAUL (50-58) 215,216 

STUDENTS 


COURSES  TAKEN  WITH  DATES  IN  PARENTHESES 

AARON,  L.  (51-52)  103, 104. 107, 108;  (52-53)  209,  210, 

211,  212,  213, 214. 215;  (53-54)309,  310, 311.  312;  (54-55) 

403.  404,  409.  413,  414,  420;  (55-56)  415,  416,  417, 418, 

443, 444 

ABE,  T.  (44-45)  106,  204. 206,  208,  212;  (45-46)  205, 307, 

311,313;(46-47)407,409,411 

ABELL,  J.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106. 107. 108;  (50-51) 

209.  210.  211,  212, 213,  214, 215  216;  (51-52)303,  305, 

306.  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (52-53)  403,  404.  409.  410, 413, 
414;  (53-54)459.  460.  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 
ADAMS,  W.  (46-47)  102. 106, 108,  203,  205,  211 ;  (48-49) 

307,  308,  311 .  312,  313, 314;  (49-50)  301 .  302.  407,  408, 
409,  410,  411 .  412.  493.  494,  (50-51 )  211 

AHERN,  T.  (42-43)  101 ,  102, 107, 108,  204 

AIKENS,  W.  (49-50)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (50-51) 

209,  210,  211.  212,  213.  214.  215. 216;  (51-52)303,  304, 

305,  306,  307.  308,  311,  312;  (52-53)403,  404,  409.  410, 

413,  414;  (53-54)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 

AKERMAN.R.  (57-58)  502.  597 

ALBANO,  J.  (44-45)  21 2;  (45-46)  311 

ALBERS,  G.  (48-49)407,  408,  409.  501 .  502,  505,  506,  510; 

(49-50)508,511,521.591.593.595 

ALBERT,  A.  (50-51)  103. 107, 109,  215 

ALLEN,  0.(39-40)  108 

ALONGI,  F.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107. 108;  (49-50) 


203,204,205,206,207,208,211,212 

ALPER,  Z.  (45-46)  101 ,  102, 107,  203,  205,  207, 211 ; 

(46-47)  307,  308, 311 ,  312, 313, 314,  (47-48)  402. 408, 410, 

412,494 

ALROTH,F.  (52-53)  110 

ALSCHULER,  J.  (38-39)  201 ,  203,  205,  207,  202,  204, 206, 

208,312 

AMES,  H.  (47-48)  204,  206,  208,  212,  (48-49)  307,  308,  311 , 

312, 313,  314;  (49-50)301 ,  302,  407,  408,  409,  410,  411, 

412,493,494 

AMES,  R.  (47-48)  102, 108,  206.  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

207,  208.  211. 212;  (49-50)301.  302,  305,  306,  307,  308, 

311,  312, 313.  314;  (50-51)403. 404. 409,  410, 413, 414. 

(51-52)453,454 

ANANTASANT,  V.  (54-55)462,  464,  505,  508,  509;  (55-56) 

461 ,  463,  464. 466,  510,  51 1 ,  51 2. 591 ;  (56-57)  599 

ANASCHUETZ,  K.  (54-55)  462, 464, 466,  501 ,  505 

ANDAYA,  M.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

ANDERSON,  B.  (44-45)  101 ,  102. 105, 106, 108,  (45-46) 

203,  205,  207,  211.  (46-47)307,  311.  313,  314 

ANDERSON,  C.  (38-39)  101. 105. 107.  202,  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207.  208,  312;  (39-40)  205;  (41-42)  303,  304, 307,  308. 

311 .  312;  (46-47)307.  308. 311. 312,  313,  314;  (47-48)212. 

402.408,410.412,494 

ANDERSON,  0.  (47-48)  204, 206,  208,  212;  (48-49)  106, 

307,  308,  311.  312,  313,  314;  (49-50)301 ,  302,  407,  408, 

409,410,411,412,493.494 

ANDERSON, E.  (44-45)  102, 106;  (45-46)203,  205. 207, 

211;(46-47)307.308.  311.312,  313,  314;  (47-48)  402, 

408,410,412,494 

ANDERSON,  HAROLD(48-49)  101,102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 

(49-50)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211,21 2;  (50-51 )  303, 

304,  305,  306,  307, 308.  311 .  312;  (51-52)  403,  404, 409, 

410,413,414 

ANDERSON,  HARRY  (48-49)  101, 102. 105, 106, 107, 108; 

(49-50)  203.  204, 205,  206,  207, 208, 211.212;  (50-51 )  303, 

304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (51-52)  403. 404. 409. 

410.  413,  414;  (52-53)415,  416,  453,  454,  455,  456,  458 

ANDERSON,  JOHN  I.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109; 


155 


IIT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


(57-58)209,210.211,212,213,214.215 

ANDERSON.  JOHN  K.  (52-53)  103, 104. 107, 108, 109.  215. 

(53-54)210.  211 .  212. 213.  214,  (54-55)303.  304,  305,  306, 

309, 310, 311,  312;  (55-56)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420, 

(56-57).415,  417,  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 

ANDERSON,  J.  M.  (42-43)  101, 105, 107 

ANDERSON,  K.  (46-47)  207,  208,  211 ,  (47-48)  308,  31 2, 

314:  (48-  49)  401 ,  402.  407.  408.  409.  410.  411 .  412.  493. 

494 

ANDREWS,  C.  (46-47)  501 ,  502,  503,  506 

ANGUS,J,  (47-48)506,  507 

ANSCHUETZ,  K,  (55-56)  464.  51 0.  51 1 .  51 2,  (56-57)  521 

522, 597 

ARQUILLA,  A,  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107 

ARTHUR,  P.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (50-51 ) 

209,  210,  211 , 212, 213, 214,  215,  216:  (51-52)303, 304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (52-53)  403,  404,  409,  410, 
413,  414;  (53-54)415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 
ASARI,R.  (56-57)  110 

AYERS,  J,  A,  (55-56)  103, 107, 109 

BABBIN,  R.  (47-48)102, 106, 108:  (48-49)203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212;  (49-50)301,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51)403, 404,  409,  410, 413, 
414;  (51-52)453,  454 

BABKA,  B.  (51-52)103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (52-53) 
209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213, 214,  215,  216:  (53-54)303,  304, 

309,  310,  311,  312;  (54-55)403,  404,  409,  413,  414, 420, 
(55-56)415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 

BACOURIS,T.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108;  (57-58)209,  210, 

211,212,213,214,215; 

BAER,  F.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50)  203, 

204,  205, 206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212;  (50-51 )  303,  304,  305, 

306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (51-52)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414;  (52-53)  455456,  458 

BAGAMERY,  F.  (42-43)  101, 105, 107;  (46-47)203,  204, 

205,206,207,208.212 

BAKER,  0.(38-39)312.  407.  408 

BAKER,  W.  (45-46),  102, 106, 108;  (46-47)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  212;  (47-48)308,  312,  314;  (48-49)401 ,  402, 

407, 408, 409, 410, 411 , 412, 493, 494 

BALAVAN,  7.(44-45)308,312,314,311 

BALDWIN.  R.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  215; 

(51-52)211.212.213,  214;  (52-53) 303,  304,305,306,307, 

308,311,312 

BALLETO.  J.  (52-53)103,107 

BALLEW,T.  (48-49)101,105,107 

BALODIS.  L.  (54-55)303,  304.  306.  309.  310,  311 ,  312; 

(55-56)403  404,  409,  413,  414,  420;  (56-57)305,  415, 

417  416  443,  444;  (57-58)465,  508,  408,  509 

BANKS.  C.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)204, 

206,208.212 

BARCLAY.  J.  (45-46)  101, 105, 107 

BARKER.  R.  (50-51)103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214, 215,  216,  (52-53)  303,  305, 

306, 307,  308, 311 ,  312,  (53-54)  304, 403,  404,  409, 413, 

414,  420:  (54-55)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 

BARNES,  J.  (51-52)103, 104, 107, 108 

BARNES,  R.  (56-57)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (57-58) 


209,210,211,212,213,214,215 

BARTHEL,  E,  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  (54-55) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (55-56)  209,  303, 

304,  305,  306,  309.  310.  311 .  312,  (56-57)403,  404,  409, 

420,  (57-58)  459,  460.  461 .  462.  463.  464,  465,  466 

BARWICK.R.  (38-39)  107 

BASELE0N,H.(46-47)313,314 

BASTAIN,  A.  (40-41) 101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 

(41-42)  203,  204, 205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212,  (42-43) 

307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314;  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ; 

(44-45)402,408,410,412 

BAUER.  J.  (52-53)  216;  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108,  209, 

210;  (54-  55)  210,  21 1,212,  213,  214,  216;  (55-56)  303, 

304,  305,  306,  309,  310,  311,  312,  (56-57)  403,  409,  463 

BEAL,  D.  (57-58)103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

BEARD.  1.(45-46)101, 105, 107 

BECK.  R.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50)  203, 

204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212:  (50-51 )  303,  304,  305, 

306,  307,  308,  311,  312;  (51-52)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414,(52-53)415,416,453,454 

BEELER.  D.  (43-44)  101 ,  105, 107;  (44-45)  208,  212 

BEHNKE.  M.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (57-58) 

209,211,213,215 

BEHNKE.  R.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (57-58) 

209.211,213,215 

BEIN.  J.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 107, 108, 109 

BELENA,J.(43-44)105 

BELL.  C.  (43-44)  502,  504;  (44-45)  501 ,  503 

BELZ.  J.  (55-56)  104, 108, 110;  (56-57)  209,  210,  211 ,  212, 

213,214,215 

BENDER.  H.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108.  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212;  (50-51 )  303,  304, 

305,306,307,308,311,312 

BENNET.F.  (46-47)  510 

BENNEn.R.  (57-58)215,  305 

BERENSON.  A.  (47-48)102,106,108,(48-49)203,204, 

205,  206,  207,  208,  211,  212;  (49-50)301 ,  302,  305,  306, 

307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51)403,  404,  409, 410, 
413,  414;  (51-52)455,  456,  458 

BERGER,  D.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  (57-58) 
209,210,211,212,213,214,215,216 
BERGESON.J.  (47-48)102,106,108,  (48-49)203,204, 

205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306, 
307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51)403,  404,  409,  410, 
413,414;(51-52)455,456,458 

BERGMANN,  B.  (38-39)  101 ,  105, 107. 202.  203, 204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  312;  (47-48)  308,  312, 314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402, 
407, 408, 409, 410, 411 , 412, 493, 494 

BERLOW,  L.  (45-46)105, 108;  (47-48)204,  208,  212,  313; 

(48-49)  307 ,  308.  31 1 .  312.  31 3.  401 ,  402,  41 1 .  (49-50) 

407,408,409,410,412.493,494 

BERNASCONI,  C.  (49-50)  101 ,  105, 107,  (50-51 )  104, 108, 

110,  215:  (51-52)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  216,  (52-53) 

210,  303,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)304,  403, 

404,  409,  413,  414,  420:  (54-55)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463, 

464,465,466 

BERNHARDT.  F.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 

(50-51)209,  210, 211.  212,  213,  214. 215.  216;  (51-52) 


303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311,  312;  (52-53)403, 404, 

409,  410,  41 3,  414,  (53-54)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464, 

465, 466 

BERTHOLD.  T.  (44-45)  204,  206,  208,  212 

BERTICH.L.  (42-43)101,105,107 

BICIUNAS.  A.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

BIELENBERG.  D.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

BIERDERMAN,  E.  (38-39)  201 .  202,  203,  204,  205,  206, 

207,  208,  312;  (39-40)303,  304,  307,  308,  312 

BILLMAN.  D.  (42-43)  101 ,  105, 107,  (45-46)  102, 106, 108, 

203,  205,  207,  21 1 ;  (46-47)  204,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  31 3, 

314;  (47-48)  402,  408,  410,  412,  494 

BINGMAN.  C.  WM.  (54-55)  104, 108, 110,  (55-56)  209,  210, 

21 1,212,  213,  214,  215,  216.  (56-57)  303.  304.  305,  306, 

309,  310,  311 ,  312:  (57-58)216,  403,  404,  409,  413,  414, 

420 

BINKLEY.  L.  (40-41)  109,  (41-42)203,  204,  205,  207,  208, 

210,212,  (42-43)307,308,311,312,  313,  314;  (43-44)  401, 

407,  409,  411:  (44-45)  402,  408,  410,  412 

BISKUP.M.  (53-54)  103, 107,109 

BLACK.  A.  (55-56)  103, 107,109 

BLACK.  0.  (45-46)  102,  203,  205, 207,  21 1 ,  (46-47)  307, 

308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314,  (47-48)402,  408,  410,  412,  494 

BUCKEn.  D.  (53-54)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215, 

216,  (54-  55)  109,  306,  309,  310,  311,  312,  (55-56)303, 

304,403,404,409,413,414,420 

BLANDA.  L.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

BLANKSTEIN,  M.  (50-51 )  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593,  594. 

(51-52)591,599 

BLINDERMAN.  L.  (44-45)  102, 106, 108 

BLINICK,  R.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108:  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212:  (49-50)301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 
308,311,312,313,314 

BLUESTEIN,  E.  (38-39)101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 
(40-41)203,204,205,206,207,208,210,211,(41-42) 
303,  304,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (42-43)402,  408,  410,  412: 
(46-47)  507,  508,  509,  510;  (47-48)  512,  592;  (48-49)  501 , 
512,  591 ,  593,  594  (audit),  (49-50)  521 ,  593,  594,  599; 
(50-51)599,(51-52)599 

BLUHM,  N.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 
(45-46) 206,  (46-47)  207,  212, 313,  314;  (47-48) 402, 412 
BLUMBERG,  L.  (38-39)  102,  201 ,  202,  203,  204,  205,  206, 

207,  208,  312,  (39-40)303,  304,  307,  308,  312;  (40-41)  401 , 
402,  403,  404, 407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1 , 412 

BLUME,  A.  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208, 

312;  (39-40)  303,  304,  307,  308,  312;  (40-41 )  401 ,  402,  403, 

404,407,408,409,410,411,412 

BOBZIN,  J.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)204, 

206,  208,  212;  (48-49)307,  308, 311,  312,  313,  314.  (49-50) 
301 , 302, 407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1 , 412, 493, 494 
BOCKUS,  R.  (56-57)  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216; 
(57-58)303,305,309,311 

BOFFERDING,  C.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

BOHNEN,  0.(44-45)  307 

BOLES,  H,  (39-40)  106. 107, 108, 109;  (40-41)  203. 204. 

207,  208,  210,211;  (41-42)  303, 304,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312. 
(42-43)205,402,408,410,412 

BOLUN,  K.  (48-49)  102. 106. 108;  (49-50)  207 


BONNET.  F.  (44-45)  506  (Audit) 

BORKAN,  M.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212;  (49-50)203,  207,  208,  211 ,  212, 

313.(50-51)303,304,305,306,307,308,311,312,(51-52) 

403,  404,  409,  410,  (52-53)455,  456,  458 

BORRE,  G.  (39-40)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 

(40-41)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  211,  (41-42) 

303,  304,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (42-43)402,  408,  410,  412 
BORVANSKY.  R.  (52-53)  103. 104, 107, 108,  (53-54)  (209, 
210, 211.  212,  213,  214, 215, 216,  (54-55)303,304, 305, 

306,  309, 310, 311, 312, (556)  210,  403,  404,  409, 413, 
414, 420, (56-  57) 459,  460, 461 , 462,  463. 464, 465, 466 
BOTERO.  H.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (52-53) 
209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (53-54)303,  304, 
309,  310,  311,  312,  (54-55)403,  404,  413,  414,  409, 420; 
(55-56)415,416,417,418,443,444 
BOTHAGARAY,J.(52-53)501 

BOULANO.  C.  (38-39)  401 .  402. 407,  408,  409,  410 

BOVIE.M.  (44-45)102  106, 108;  (45-46)  203,  205,  207,  211 

BOWMAN.  J.  (57-58)  501 ,  502,  505,  506,  597 

BRADT,  R.  C.  (38-39)  401 ,  402,  407. 408,  409,  410 

BRANDSETTER.  R.  (44-45)  307,  308, 312,  314,  401 ;  (45-46) 

408,409 

BRAUN.R.  (45-46)  101. 105, 107;  (46-47)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  212:  (47-48)  308,  312,  314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402, 

407,  408,  409, 410, 41 1 , 41 2, 493, 494 

BRENNER.  D.  (46-47)  501 ,  502,  503,  506,  (47-48)  502,  591 ; 

(48-49)521,522,591 

BRINK,  E.  (45-46)  207,  211 

BROOKER,  R.  (48-49)  101. 102. 105, 106, 107, 108,  203, 

204,  21 1.212;  (49-50)  205,  206,  207,  208,  313;  (50-51 )  303, 

304,  305.  306,  307,  308,  311, 312;  (51-52)403,  404,  409, 
410,415,416.(52-53)453.454 

BROUN.  R.  (52-53)  108,  209,  210, 21 1,212,  213,  214, 215; 
(53-54)  303,  304,  309,  310,  31 1,312:  (54-55)  403,  404, 

413,  414,  409,  420;  (55-56)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463, 464. 
465, 466 

BROWN,  J.  (46-47)  102, 105, 108,  203,  205,  207. 211; 
(47-48)  307,  31 1 ,  31 3;  (48-49)  308, 31 2,  31 4,  401 ,  407. 
409,  411.  493;  (49-50)  106,  402,  408,  410,  412,  494 
BROWNSON,  J.  (41-42)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 
(42-43)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211,212;  (46-47) 

307,  311,31 3,  314.  401 ,  402,  409. 41 1 ;  (47-48)  408.  494; 
(48-49)  501 ,  502,  507. 508.  593, 594;  (49-50)  591 ,  593; 
(53-54)597 

BRUDZINSKI.  W.  (48-49)  101 .102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 
(49-50)  203,  204,  205, 206, 207, 208, 21 1 , 212 
BRYAN,  W.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (53-54) 
209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215, 216;  (54-55)303, 304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  311 ,  312;  (55-56)  403,  404,  409,  413, 

414,  420;  (56-57)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 
BRYANT,  A.  (49-50)  501 ,  505, 594,  (50-51 )  502,  509,  593, 
595 

BUCCOLA,  C.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109 
BUCH.W.  (40-41)501,  502 
BUKTENICA.  J.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 
(49-50)  203,  204, 205,  206,  207, 208,  21 1 ,  21 2 
BULKLEY,  J.  (55-56)  209. 210.211.212.  309.  310,311, 


312;  (56-  57)  305,  306,  403,  404,  409,  465,  466,  420: 

(57-58)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464 

BULLARD.  M.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216:  (56-57)  303,  304, 

305,306,309,310,311,312 

BURKE,  E.  (47-48)  204,  206,  208,  212:  (48-49)  106, 203, 

307,  308,  311,  312,  313,  314;  (49-50)  105,  301 ,  402,  407, 

408,409,410,411,412,493,494 

BURKE.  J.  (40-41)101,105,107 

BURLEIGH,  T.  (40-41)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210, 

211:  (41-42)  303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2,  (42-43)  401 , 

402,  407,  408,  409,  410,  411.  (46-47)501 ,  502.  503,  504, 

505, 506; (47-48)591 

BURNEn,J.(51-52)501 

BURR,  D.  (42-43)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (43-44) 

203,205,207,211 

CALDWELL,  A.  (41-42)  407.  (45-46)  508:  (46-47)  51 2.  591 

CALEF,  J.  (42-43)101,105,107 

CALLAS.  G.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (52-53) 

209,210,211,212,213,214,215,216,(53-54)303,304, 

309,  310,  31 1 ,  312;  (54-55)  403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420: 

(55-56)415,416,417,418,443,444 

CAMPAGNA,  P.  (40-41 )  501 .  502;  (54-55)  501 ,  505;  (55-56) 

521,591 

CAMPBELL.  E.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107,  203;  (46-47)  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211,21 2;  (47-48)  308,  312,31 4;  (48-49)  401 . 

402,  407,  408,  409, 410, 411, 412, 493, 494 

CAMPBELL.  W.  (49-50)  101.102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 

(50-51)  209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216:  (52-53) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)  304, 403, 

404,  409,  413,  414,  420;  (54-55)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463. 

464,465,466 

CANDIDO.  A.  (50-51)  110,  210,  211, 212,  213,  214,  215, 

216;  (51-52) 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 311 , 312. 

(52-53)  109,  403,  404,  409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)415, 

416,417,418,443,444 

CARDNO,  C.  (52-53)  209,  211 ,  213, 215,  (55-56)  209,  210, 

212,213,214,215,216 

CARLSEN,  A.  (46-47) 102, 106, 108,  203,  205,  207,  211; 

(47-48)  307,  31 1 ,  31 3:  (48-49)  308,  312,  31 4,  401 ,  407, 

409,  41 1 ,  493;  (49-50)  402,  408, 410,  41 2,  493 

CARLSON,D.L.(49-50)101,102,105, 106,107, 108 

CARLSTEDT.R.  (39-40)  401 

CARMICHAEL,  A.  (55-56)  501 ,  502,  505,  508,  593 

CAROW.  J.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10;  (57-58) 

209,210,211,212,213,214,215,216 

CARPANELLI,  F.  (51  -52)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593 

CARROLL,J.  (38-39)  102. 106, 108 

CARROLL,  K.  (57-58)  103, 107, 109 

CARTER,  P.  (57-58)  501 ,  502,  510,  591 

CARTER,  R,  (42-43)  101 ,  102, 107, 108,  204 

CASASCO,  J.  (49-50)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  594,  595;  (50-51 ) 

521, 591, 593. 595. 599;  (51-52)599 

CASATI,  R,  (47-48)  204.  206,  208. 212,  (48-49)  307, 308, 

311 .  312,  313,  314;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  407,  408,  409,  410, 

411,412,493,494 

CASSIDY.W.  (53-54)  103, 107 

CATLIN.  R.  (57-58)  103. 104. 107, 108, 109, 110 


156 


NT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


CAYNE,  D.  (48-49)207,  208,  211,  212,  313,  314 

CECCONI.  D.  (45-46)  102, 106, 108,  (46-47)  204,  313. 314; 

(47-48)  401 ,  402,  409,  41 1 ,  494,  (48-49)  205,  402,  408, 

410,412,493 

CEISEL.E.(47-48)102, 106, 108 

CEROVSKI.  J.  (38-39)  203,  204,  307,  308. 312. 313,  314; 

(39-40)  305,  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407.  408,  409,  410.  411 . 

412 

CENTER.  E.  (38-39)101.102,105.106,107,108.(39-40) 

203.  204.  205.  206,  207,  208,  210,  211.  (40-41)303.  304. 

307.  308.  31 1 .  312.  (41-42)  401 .  402,  403,  404,  407,  408. 
409.410.411,412 

CHALMERS.  H.  (45-46)  101 ,  105,  107.  (46-47)  203.  204, 

205,  206,  207,  208,  212;  (47-48)  308,  312,  314;  (48-49)  401 , 
402,  407,  408, 409, 410, 411 , 412, 493, 494 

CHANG,  P.  (52-53)  501 .  502.  505.  508.  (53-54)  521 ,  591 . 

599 

CHASE,  R.  (39-40)  102, 106. 108. 109;  (40-41)  203.  205. 

207.210 

CHATY,  R.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108,  (48-49)  203.  204.  205. 

206.  207.  208.  21 1 .  212.  (49-50)  301 .  302.  305.  306.  307. 

308.  31 1 .  312. 313.  314.  (50-51 )  403.  404.  409.  410.  413. 
414.(51-52)453.454 

CHAU,  C.  (42-43)  501 .  505;  (44-45)  502.  506 

CHESTERFIELD,  A.  (46-47)  102. 106, 108,  203,  205. 207. 

211,  (47-  48)  307,  31 1,313,  (48-49)  308.  31 2.  31 4.  401 . 

407,  409,  411,  493;  (49-50)402,  408,  410,  412,  494 

CHEZ.  E.  (49-50) 101, 102. 105. 106, 107, 108.  (50-51)209. 

210,211,212,213,214,215,216 

CHRISTENSEN,  G.  (47-48)  102, 106. 108;  (48-49)  203,  204, 

205,  206.  207.  208.  211.  212;  (50-51)  303.  304,  305.  306, 

307.  308.  311 .  312;  (51-52)403.  404. 409,  410,  413,  414; 

(52-53)416.456.458 

CHRISTENSEN,  J.  (45-46)  101 .  105. 107 

CHRISTENSEN,  R.  (54-55)  103. 104. 107. 108, 109, 110; 

(55-56)  209,  210. 211 .  212. 213. 214. 215.  216,  (56-57) 

303. 304,  305. 306. 309. 310. 311 .  312;  (57-58)  210. 403, 

404,409,413.414.420 

CHRISTENSEN,  W.  (39-40)101.102.105.106.107.108. 

1 09, (40-  41 )  203,  204.  205, 206. 207. 208. 210,  21 1 . 

(41-42)  303. 304.  307.  308.  31 1 .  312;  (42-43)  402,  408, 

410.412 

CHRISTIANSEN,  C.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105. 107. 108.  203. 

204, 205; (50-51 )  211 .  212. 213. 214, 216;  (51-52)  303, 304, 

305,  306.  307.  308,  311.  312;  (52-53)403,  404,  409,  413. 

455;  (53-54)415,  417,  443;  (57-58)415.  416,  444.  420 

CHRISTOFANO,  R.  (39-40)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108. 

109 

CHRISTOPHERSON.  B.  (55-56)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 

110,303,304 

CHUNG.  R.  (50-51 )  501 ,  502. 505. 509.  593.  594 

CHURCH.  R.  (50-51)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110;  (51-52) 

209,211,213 

CLAERHOUT,  J.  (45-46)  101 ,  105. 107;  (46-47)203.  204. 

205,  206,  207, 208. 212;  (47-48)  308,  312,  314.  (48-49)  401 . 

402,  407,  408, 409.  410, 411 , 412, 493, 494 

CLARK,  P.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105, 106, 107, 108,  (52-53) 

209.210,211,212.213.214 


CLARK,  R.  (47-48)  102,  106,  108,  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212,  (49-50)301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 
308,  311,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414,(51-52)455,456,458 

CLARKE,  P.  (55-56)303,  304,  305, 306,  309,  310,  311,  312; 

(56-  57)  403,  404,  409,  414.  416.  417.  418.  420;  (57-58) 

415.416.443.444 

CLEVENGER,  D.  (54-55)  103. 104. 107. 108.  109.  110.  303. 

304.(55-56)209.211,213,215.413 

CLIFFER.  H.  (46-47)  203.  204,  205.  206.  207,  208;  (47-48) 

308,  312,  314,  (48-49)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410.  41 1 . 

412,493,494 

COCCONI,  D.  (46-47)  205,  207,  21 1 ,  308,  31 1 

COFFMAN,  G.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

COLBURN.M.  (55-56)210 

COLEMAN,  F.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108,  (55-56)  104, 108, 

110;  (56-57)  209,  210,  211 ,  212.  213.  214,  215,  216,  (57-58) 

303,304,305,306,309,310,311,312 

COMER,  C.  (55-56)  103. 107, 109 

COMFORT.  W  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108. 109. 

(41-42)  203,  204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 210, 212 

COMPRAn,  P.  (54-55)  103,  104, 107, 108 

CONLON,  C.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108, 203,  205,  207,  211; 

(47-48)  307,  31 1,313;  (48-49)  308,  312,  314,  401 ,  407, 

409,  41 1 ,  493,  (49-50)  21 1 ,  402,  408,  410,  41 2,  494 

CONSIDINE.  J.  (46-47)  102. 105. 106. 107. 108.(47-48) 

204.  206.  208.  212;  (48-49)307.  308.  311 .  312.  313.  314. 

(49-50)  301 .  402.  407,  408,  409,  410.  41 1 .  412.  493.  494 

CONTERATO,  B.  (45-46)  206,  (46-47)  203,  212.  307,  311 , 

313,  314;  (47-48)402,  408,  410,  412,  494,  (48-49)501 ,  502, 

505, 506;  (49-50) 521 , 522;  (50-51 )  591 

CONWAY,  S.  (54-55)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109, 110.  (55-56) 

209,210.211,212,213.214.215.216 

COOLEY,  W.  (42-43)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108;  (43-44) 

307.  31 1 .  31 3;  (44-45)  203. 204.  205.  206.  207,  208.  211, 

212 

COONS,  J.  (46-47)  204,  205,  206, 207,  208,  21 1 ,  21 2; 

(47-48)  308.  312;  (48-49)  401 .  407.  409.  41 1 .  494;  (49-50) 

313.402,408.409.411.494 

COOP,  I.  (51-52)  501 .  502.  505.  509.  593;  (52-53)  591 .  599 

CORAZZO,  A.  (46-47)  204,  208,  307. 308.  31 1 .  (47-48)  402. 

408.  412.  494;  (48-49)  501 ,  502.  505,  51 0.  593.  594;  (49-50) 
591.599,(50-51)599 

COROES,  H.  (39-40)  303.  304,  307.  308,  312 
CORDNO,  C.  (51-52)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109. 110 
COSTIKAS.  A.  (57-58)  463.  464.  465.  501 .  502,  505,  506 
COURSER,  H.  (46-47)105.107 
COWPERTHWAIT,  W.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108. 1 10. 
(55-56)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213. 214.  (56-57)  303.  304. 

305.  306.  309.  310.  311 .  312;  (57-58)  403.  404,  409,  413, 
414,420 

COYLE,  J.  (38-39)  101 ,  102, 105. 106. 107. 108;  (39-40) 

203.  204.  205, 206. 207. 208. 210. 211 

CRUZ,  J.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49)203.  204,  205.  206. 

207.  208,  (49-50)  207 ,  208,  301 ,  302,  313,  31 4;  (50-51 )  305. 

306,  307.  308.  31 1 ,  31 2;  (51  -52)  306. 308.  31 2.  (52-53)  403. 

409.  415.  (54-55)  404.  420,  (55-56)459.  460.  461 .  462.  463. 
464.465,466 


CUNNINGHAM.  R.  (46-47)307.  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314, 

(47-48)402,408,410,412,494 

CWIAK,  R.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 

(41-42)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210.  212.  (42-43) 

307,  31 1 ,  313.  (46-47)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410,  41 1 

412 

DALEY,  J.  (57-58)  103.  104,  107,  108,  109,  110,  303 

DALRYMPLE,  D.  (56-57)  103. 107, 109 

DALY.W.  (40-41)101,102,  105,106,107,  108,109,(41-42) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212,  (42-43)  307,  31 1 , 

313;  (46-47)308,  312. 313.  314;  (47-48)402,  408,  410,  412, 

494 

DANFORTH,  G.  (38-39)  203,  204.  407,  408,  409.  410; 

(39-40)  305.  401 .  402,  403,  404,  407.  408.  410.  41 1.412. 

(40-41 )  501 .  502.  (41-42)  502.  (42-43)  591 ,  592.  (46-47)  592 

DANIEL.A. (57-58)210. 212, 214 

DANIELS,  C.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108.  (48-49)  106.  203.  204, 

205,206,207,208,211,212 

DANLEY,  R.  (51-52)  209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216. 

(52- 53) 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 311,312 

DAPIRAN.  J.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (56-57)  303,  304, 

305,306,309,310,311,312 

DASWICK,  P.  (46-47)  207,  208.  21 1 ;  (47-48)  308.  31 2.  31 4. 

(48-49)401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410,  411 ,  412, 493, 494 

DAVIDSON,  J.  (41-42)  101 ,  102, 105, 106. 107, 108 

DAVIS,  M.  (49-50)  203.  208 

DAVIS,  R.  (38-39)  407.  408.  409.  410 

DEBRECHT,  G.  (49-50)  105, 106.  203.  204.  205.  206,  207. 

208.  21 1 ,  21 2.  (50-51 )  303.  304.  305.  306,  307.  308.  31 1 . 
312.  (51-52)403.  404.  409,  410,  413,  414.  (52-53)455.  456. 
458 

DEDINA,  A.  (45-46)  1 01 , 1 05. 1 07,  (46-47)  204.  205.  207. 

211 

DEGORSKI,  J.  (52-53)  209,  21 1 ,  213,  21 5 

DEHAAN,  N.  (44-45)  204.  206.  208. 212;  (48-49)  313 

D'EUA,  P.  (50-51 )  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110;  (51-52) 

209.  210.  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (52-53)212.  303, 

304.  305.  306,  307,  308,  311,  312;  (53-54)  403,  404,  409, 

413,  414,  420.  (54-55)415,  416.  417.  418,  443,  444 
DEKOVIC.  C.  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109. 110,  (54-55) 
209.  210.  211.  212.  213.  214.  215. 216.  (55-56)303,  304. 

305.  306.  309.  310.311.312,  (56-57)  403.  404.  409.  420; 
(57-58)415.416.417.418.443,444 

DENYES,  H.  (39-40)  303.  304. 307.  308.  31 2 

DEPONDT,  P.  (51-52)  103, 104. 107, 108, 109, 110.  (52-53) 

209,  210,211,212,  213. 214.  215,  216.  (53-54) 303. 304. 

309.310.311,312 

DESENS,  R.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49)  203.  205.  207. 

211 

DESTEFANO.J.  (56-57)103. 104. 107. 108;  (57-58)  209. 

210.211.212.213.214,215 

DEUBLE,  D.  (50-51)  103, 104. 107. 108. 109. 110.  (51-52) 

209.  210.  211 ,  212.  213.  214.  215.  216;  (52-53)  303.  304. 

305.  306.  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (53-54)403,  404,  409,  413, 

414.  420;  (54-55)  459.  460.  461 .  462,  463,  464,  465.  466 
DICKEL,  G.  (38-39)  201 ,  202. 203.  204.  205,  206. 207. 208, 
312,  (39-40)303, 304,  307,  308. 312;  (40-41)  401 .  402.  403, 


404,  407,  408,  409,  410,  41 1,412,  (41-42)  501 ,  507 

DIFAZZIO.  R.  (56-57)  103,  104, 107, 108 

OISILVESTRO.  N.  (50-51 )  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10, 

(51-52)209,211,213,215 

DOBBINS.  R.  (54-55)  103,  104, 107,  108,  109,  110,  209, 

303,304 

DODEREAU.  D.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108. 

(49-50)  203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212.  (50-51) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (51-52)403,  404, 

409,  410,  413,  414,  (52-53)455,  456,  458 

DODGE,  R.  (38-39)201,  202,  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208, 

312,  (39-40)  303,  304,  307,  308,  312,  (42-43)  402,  408 

DOMPKE.  R.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

DONARSKI,  W.  (43-44)  101 .  105,  107,  (44-45)  102, 106, 

108.  (46-  47)  203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  212,  (47-48) 

308,  312,  314.  (48-49)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410,  41 1 , 

412,493,494 

DONCHIN,  M.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  209, 

(57-58)  209, 210.211. 212. 213. 214, 215, 216 

DONNELL,  D.  (52-53)  103. 107. 109 

DONNELLY,  J.  (48-49)  101 .  102. 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211,212,  (50-51 )  303,  305,  307, 

311 

DOUGHERTY,  W.  (53-54)  1 03, 104, 1 07 , 1 08,  (54-55)  209, 

210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  (55-56)209,  303,  305,  306. 

309,310,311,312 

DOWRICK,  A.  (48-49)  101 .  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,204,205,206,207,208,211.212 

DOYLE,  P  (44-45)  101. 102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

DRAKE,  D.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212.  (49-50)301,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308.  31 1.312.  313.  314.  (50-51 )  403.  404,  409,  410,  413, 

414;  (51-52)454, 454 

DUCKEn,  £.(44-45)204. 208.  212;  (49-50)  31 1.312.  314. 

402.  409. 410; (50-51)209.  403,  413, 493, 494 
OUDAY,G.(48-49)101,102,105,106. 107, 108,(49-50) 
203,  204.  205,  206,  207.  208.  21 1 .  21 2.  (50-51 )  303.  304, 
305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312;  (51-52)  403,  404,  409,  410. 
413,414.(52-53)415.416,453.454 
OUEMMLING.C.  (49-50)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 
(50-51)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215.  216;  (51-52) 
303.  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311,  312;  (52-53)403,  404, 
409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 
DUMROESE,  E.  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110; 
(54-55)  209.  210,  211,  212.  213. 214.  215.  216;  (55-56) 
303.304.  305.  306.  307.  308.  309.  310.  31 1 .  31 2;  (56-57) 

403,  404,  409,  420.  (57-58)  459.  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464, 
465, 466 

DUNAS.T.  (48-49)101,102,105,106,107, 108;  (49-50) 
203,  204.  205.  206.  207,  208. 21 1.212;  (50-51 )  303.  304. 
305.  306.  307.  308,  311.  312.  (51-52)403,  404.  409.  410, 
413.414.(52-53)415.416.453.454 
DUNBAR.  W.  (47-48)  102, 108,  313.  (49-50)203.  211 
DUNLAP.  W.  (40-41)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107, 108, 109; 
(41-42)203,  204,  205,  206, 207. 208. 210. 212; (42-43) 
307.  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (46-47)401 ,  402,  407,  408, 
409,  410,  41 1 ,  41 2;  (47-48)  502. 508.  (48-49)  521 .  522.  591 . 
593; (49- 50) 522, 591 


DURAN,  R.  (49-50)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  594,  595,  (50-51) 

521,522,591,593,594 

DYBA.  B.  (57-58)  103,  104,  107, 108,  110 

DYCKMAN.T.  (50-51)212 

EHMANN,  R,  (48-49)  204,  208,  212 

EHRLICH,  L.  (44-45)  101 ,  102, 105. 106,  107, 108 

EK,  C.  (51-52)  103,  104,  107,  108,  (52-53)  209,  21 1,213, 

215 

EMBACH,  J.  (46-47)  105, 106,  (47-48)  102,  108,  206,  212. 

(48-49)  203,  204,  207,  208,  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  307,  308. 

31 1.312.  (50-51 )  403,  404.  409.  410.  413 

ERICKSON,  E.  (38-39)407.  408,  410 

ERICKSON.  G.  (57-58)  103,  104,  107,  108,  109, 110 

ERICKSON,  R.  (40-41)101, 102,  105,  106,  1(37,  108,  109. 

(47-48)  102,  106, 108.  (48-49)  203.  204,  205,  206,  207, 

208,  21 1,212,  313,  314;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307. 
308.311,312,411,412 

ESTES,  G.  (57-58)209,  210,  211 , 212.  213. 214, 215, 216 
FALLOT,  C.  (50-51)  103,  104,107,108,  109,  110;  (51-52) 
209,211,213 

FANSELOW.J.(46-47)102,106,  108 
FARMER,  F.  (57-58)  501 .  502,  505,  506,  597 
FARRELL,  E.  (39-40)  101 .  102. 105. 106, 107, 108, 109. 
(40-41 )  203.  204.  205.  206.  207,  208.  210.  211.  (41-42) 
303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1,312.  (42-43)  402. 408,  410.  412 
FARRELL,  M.  (46-47)313.314 
FEBEL.C.  (44-45)  102,  106,  108 
FEINBERG.  J.  (56-57)  462,  464,  466,  510.  (57-58)  508.  51 1 
FELTGEN,  R.  (50-51)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110.  (51-52) 

209,  210,  21 1 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (52-53)303,  304, 

305.  306,  307,  308,  31 1,312,  (53-54)  403,  404,  409,  413, 
414,  420;  (54-55)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 
FERENC,  T.  (47-48)  102. 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204, 205, 

206,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  21 2.  (49-50) 301 ,  302.  305. 306. 307. 
308.  31 1.312.  313.  314;  (50-51)403.  404,  409.410.413. 
414.(51-52)453.454 

FERGUSON,  J.  (38-39)  101, 102. 105, 106. 107. 108. 

(45-46)101.107 

FERNAU,  H.  (43-44)  307. 311 .  313;  (44-45)  203.  204,  206. 

207.  208.  21 1 .  212.  314.  401 .  408.  412;  (45-46)  407.  410 
FERRELL,  M.  (42-43)  203,  204. 205.  206,  207.  208. 211.212 
FERRIDAY,  0.  (56-57)  209,  210,  21 1 ,  212. 213.  214.  215. 
216;  (57-58)  303.  304.  305, 306, 309, 310. 311, 312 
FERRIS,  J.  (47-48)  308.  312.  314;  (48-49)  402.  407,  408, 
409,  410,  41 1,  412,  493,  494;  (49-50)501,  502,  509,  510, 
594,  595,  (50-51 )  591 ,  593,  594,  595,  599 

FINFER,  I.  (44-45)  102, 105, 106, 108 

FINFER.  M.  (46-47)  204.  206,  208.  21 1 .  212.  313.  31 4; 

(47-48)  308.  312.  314.  41 1 ;  (48-49)  401 ,  402.  407,  408. 

409.410.411.412.493,494 

FINFER,  P.  (49-50)  101, 105, 106, 107, 108,  203;  (50-51) 

210,  211 ,  212.  213.  214.  215,  216,  (51-52)303,  304,  305, 

306.  307.  308.  31 1,312.  (52-53)  403,  409,  413.  (55-56)  403. 
404.  409.  413.  414.  420.  (56-57)459.  460,  461 .  462.  463. 
464.465,466.(57-58)512 

FIRANT,  E.  (38-39)203,  204,  307, 308,  311,  312.  313. 314; 
(39-40)  305.  401 .  402. 403. 404. 407.  408. 409. 410,411. 
412 


157 


NT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


FISHER.  R.  (48-49)  101,  105, 107 

FITZGERALD.  6.(56-57)110 

FLORES.  L.  (47-48)  204,  206,  208,  21 2;  (48-49)  307,  31 1 , 

313;  (49-50)302,  306,  308,  312,  314.  (50-51)303,  403,  404, 

409,410,413.414.(51-52)455,456.458 

FLYER.  A.  (45-46)101,105,107,(48-49)102,106,108: 

(49-50)203.205,207,211 

FOLGERS.  K.  (53-54)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110,  (54-55) 

209,  210. 211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (55-56)  303,  304,305, 

306,  309.  310.  31 1 ,  312.  (56-57)  403,  404,  409,  420.  (57-58) 
459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463, 464, 465, 466 

FOSKUHL.  H.  (49-50)  101, 102, 105, 106. 107, 108 

FOWLER.  J.  (46-47)  203.  204,  207,  208,  21 2;  (47-48)  308, 

312,  314;  (48-49)401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410, 411 , 412, 

493, 494 

FOX,  J.  (38-39)203,  204,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314, 

(39-40)305.  401.  402,  403. 404.  407, 408,  409, 410, 411 

412 

FOX.P.  (45-46)101,105,  107 

FRACCARO,  M.  (41-42)  101. 102, 105, 106, 107. 108; 

(42-43) 203, 204. 205, 206, 207, 208,  21 1,212;  (46-47) 

307,  308,  31 1 ,  312.  313.  314.  (47-48)  402,  408,  410,  412, 
494 

FRAMARIN.C.  (50-51)103. 104, 107, 108, 109. 110,  215; 

(51-52)209,210,211,212,213,  214, 21 5;  (52-53)  303, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312:  (53-54)  304,  403,  404,  409, 

413,  414,  420;  (54-55)  305,  415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 

FREED,  J.  (48-49)  101 .  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212;  (50-51 )  303.  304. 

305.  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (51-52)403,404,  409,  410, 

413,414;(52-53)415,416.453.454 

FREEMAN,  L.  (46-47)  208,  307,  313,  314,  (47-48)  308,  312, 

41 2;  (48-49)  407, 408,  409,  410 

FREGA,  J.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105, 106, 107, 108;  (50-51) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216.  (51-52)303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311,31 2;  (52-53)  403,  404,  409. 410. 

413.  414;  (53-54)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466: 

(56-57)509,510,511,512,591 

FRELICH,  L.  (40-41)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 

(41-42)203,  204,  205, 206, 207, 208, 210, 212;  (42-43) 

307.  308,  311 .  312,  313,  314;  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409.  411 ; 

(44-45)402,408,410,412 

FRENCH,  R.  (50-51)  103, 104. 107. 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,  210.  211 .  212.  213,  214,  215.  216;  (52-53)303.  304. 

305.  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312:  (53-54)  303,  403,  404,  409, 

413,  414. 420:  (54-55)305. 415.  416.  417,  418,  443,  444 

FRENZL,  0.(55-56)103. 107 

FRIEND,  W.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205.  206.  207.  208.  211 .  212;  (50-51 )  210.  303, 

304.  305.  306,  307,  308.  311 ,  312:  (51-52)403.  404.  409. 

410,  413.  414:  (52-53)415. 416,  453,  454 

FRYE,  0.  (38-39)101 .  102, 105, 106, 107,  202,  207, 208. 

312;  (39-40) 205.  206,  210;  (40-41) 303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1 , 

312 

FUCHS,  G.  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203. 204,  205,  206,  207,  208. 

312 

FUJIKAWA,  J,  (42-43)  314,  408,  410,  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409, 

411 ;  (44-45)402,  408,  410,  412,  (46-47)  502,  51 1 ,  591 . 


(49-50) 599, (50-51 ) 599, (51-52)  599; (52-53)  599 

FUJIMOTO,  W.  (45-46)  101 .  105, 107;  (46-47)  203,  204, 

205  206,  207,  208,  212,  (47-48)308,  312,  314,  (48-49)  401 . 

402,  407,  408,  409.  410,  411,  412,  493,  494 

FUKUNAGA,  £.(45-46)101, 107 

GAGE,  G.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108,  (48-49)203, 204, 205, 206, 

207,  208, 21 1,212;  (49-50)  301,  305, 307, 31 1,313 

GAGERIN,  F.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108,  (57-58)  209,  210. 

211,212,213,214,215,216 

GALAVAN.T.  (40-41)  101 .  102, 105. 106. 107. 108. 109: 

(41-42)  203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212,  (42-43) 

307,  31 1,313;  (45-46)  407,  409,  410:  (46-47)  409.  41 1 

GALER,  0.(42-43) 203.  205.  207,  211 

GARCES,  W.  (46-47)  501 ,  502.  508.  509,  591 

GARETTO,  A.  (44-45)  102, 106, 108,  (45-46)  203,  205,  207, 

211; (46-47)  307,  311 

GATZ,  P.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109;  (53-54)209,  211 , 

213,215 

GAYL,  F,  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

GEnER,  Z.  (56-57)209,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  463. 

464;  (57-58)  414 

GELLMAN,  L.  (46-47)  102. 105, 106, 107, 108 

GENCHEK.R.  (51-52)  501 

GENTHER,  C.  (39-40)307,  409,  410,  501 ,  502,  (42-43)501 , 

502  505,508,591 

GEPPERT,  R.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,  204,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  212;  (50-51 )  303,  304,  305,  306, 

307,  308,  311 .  312,  (51-52)403.  404. 409.  410,  413,  414; 

(52-53)  415,  416,  453,  454;  (53-54)  444 

GEHLE,  S.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109: 

(41-41)  203,  204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 210.  212:  (42-43) 

307.  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314;  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ; 
(44-45)402,408,410,412 

GEYER,  J.  (49-50)102.106,108.(50-51)209,210,211, 
212,  213,  214, 215. 216;  (51-52)  303,  304,  305,306,  307, 

308,  31 1 ,  312:  (52-53)  109. 403. 404. 409.  410.  414.  415: 
(53-54)459.  460,  461 .  462, 463, 464, 465, 466 
GHESELAYAGH,  A.  (48-49)  505,  507;  (49-50)  501 ,  502,  509, 
511,595.(50-51)591 

GIBSON.  H.  (49-50)101. 102. 105, 106, 107, 108;  (50-51) 

209,211,213,215 

GILBERT,  S.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10.  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215, 216,  (56-57)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  311 ,  312:  (57-58)209.  403.  409,  413 

GILBRETH.W.  (48-49)  106 

GILLA,  J.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

GIROLIMON.  D  (51-52)  209.  210.  21 1.212.  213.  214 

GITTELSON,  J.  (39-40)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109 

GLASSGEN,  A.  (41-42)101, 102. 105. 106, 107, 108: 

(42-43)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211,212:  (46-47) 

307,  308,  311,  312,  313,  314,  (47-48)402.  408,  410.  412, 

494 

GLASTRA,  V.  (48-49)  312,  314,  408,  501 ,  503,  504,  593, 

594;  (49-  50)  502,  505,  591 ,  594;  (50-51 )  599 

GLAZNER,  M.  (45-46)  102, 106, 108,  (46-47)203,  204,  205, 

206,  207.  208.  212:  (47-48)308,  312,  314,  (48-49)401 ,  402. 

407,  408,  409, 410, 411 , 412, 493, 494 

GLEDHILL,  R.  (53-54)  103, 104. 107, 108;  (54-55)209.  210. 


211 ,  212.  213,  214,  215:  (55-56)303,  304,  305,  306,  309, 

310,311,312,(56-57)403,409 

GLENNIE.C.  (49-50)105 

GOBOL,  R.  (46-47)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  212 

GOCHMAN,  H,  (46-47)  102, 106, 108,  203,  205,  207,  211 

GOETERS,  H.  (52-53) 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 31 1 , 

312 

GOLDBERG.  A.  (40-41)101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109 

GOLDBERG,  R.  (45-46)  101, 105, 107 

GOLDBERG.  S.  (54-55)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110; 

(55-56)  209,  210,  211.  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (56-57) 

303,  304,  305.  306,  309,  310. 311,  312:  (57-58)403,  404, 

409,413,414.420 

GOLOFARB,  0.(54-55)110 

GOLDSMITH,  M.  (38-39)401 .  402,  407,  408,  409,  410, 

(39-40)  204  (Audit),  207  (Audit),  208  (Audit)  409.  410,  501 , 

502,  (46-  47)  591 ;  (48-49)  521 ,  522;  (49-50)  599;  (50-51 ) 

599.(52-53)599 

GOMEZ,  A.  (51-52)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  (52-53) 

303,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312:  (53-54)  403,  404,  409, 

413,  414,  420,  (54-55)304.  459.  460.  461 ,  462,  463,  464, 
465,466.(55-56)511 

GONZALEZ,  G,  (48-49)501 ,  502,  505,  593,  594 

GONZALEZ,  M,  (51-52)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214; 

(52-53)303,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)  304, 

403,  404,  409,  413.  414,  420,  (54-55)405,  406,  415,  416, 

417,418,443,444 

GOODMAN,  A.  (50-51)211,  212.  213,  214,  215,  216;  (51-52) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311.  312;  (52-53)403.  404, 

409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)  415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 

GOODMAN,  B.  (40-41 )  101 .  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 

(41-42)  203,  205,  206,  207,  208,  212,  310;  (42-43)308; 

(43-44)  307,  31 1 ,  31 3,  401 ,  407,  409.  41 1 ;  (44-45)  312, 

314,402,408.410 

GOODMAN,  0.  (41-42)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107. 108 

GOODMAN,  S.  (53-54)  210:  (54-55)  21 1.212.  309.  310,  31 1 , 

312:  (55-56)  210,  306.  403,  404.  409.  413.  414,  420;  (56-57) 

305.415,416,417,418,443,444 

GORDILLO,  P.  (50-51 )  505,  508,  509.  51 1 ,  593,  594 

GORSKI,  S.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10 

GOSLIN.  K.  (46-47)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  212: 

(47-48)  308,  31 2,  31 4,  (48-49)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409, 

410,411,412,493,494 

GOUGH,  C.  (46-47)  102, 108,  203,  207,  211;  (47-48)307, 

311,31 3;  (48-49)  308,  312,  31 4,  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ,  493; 

(49-50)402,406,410,412,494 

GRAF,  H,  (50-51)103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52)209, 

210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  (52-53)303,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311 ,  312,  (53-54)403.  404.  409.  413.  414,  420;  (54-55) 

459.  460.  461 . 462. 463. 464. 465, 466 

GRAHAM,  0.(45-46)505 

GRAPER,  J.  (52-53)  1 10:  (54-55)  215 

GRAY,  M.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (51-52) 

209,  210.  211 ,  212,  213.  214.  215,  216;  (52-53)303, 305, 

307,  31 1 .  (53-54)  304,  310,  31 2;  (54-55)  403,  404.  409.  413, 

414,  420;  (55-56)  415,  416,  417,  418,  443.  444 
GREEN,  D.  (41-42)  101. 102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (42-43) 
203,  204,  205,  206, 207,  208,  21 1,212;  (46-47)  307, 308, 


311 ,  312,  313,  314,  401 ,  402,  (47-48)  401 ,  408,  410,  412, 

494,  (48-49)  501 ,  502,  505,  506,  591 ,  593,  594,  (49-50)  599, 

(50-51)521,599 

GREEN,  I.  (47-48)  102. 106, 108:  (48-49)  106,  203,  206, 

207,  208,  21 1 ,  212.  (49-50)  301 .  302.  305.  306.  307,  308, 

311 ,  312,  313.  314;  (50-51)403,  404, 409,  410,  413,  414, 

(51-52)453.454 

GREENE,  S.  (54-55)  103, 104. 107, 108, 109, 1 10,  303; 

(55-56)  209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  413; 

(56-57)  304,  305.  306.  309,  310,  31 1,312:  (57-58)  403, 

404,409,414,415,420 

GREENLEES.R.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108,109, 110; 

(51-52)  209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (52-53)305, 

306,  307,  308,  31 1,312:  (56-57)  210,  212,  (57-58)  403,  404, 
409,413,414,420 

GRIFFIS,  L,  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109;  (56-57)209, 

210,211,212,213,214,215 

GRONAU,  J.  (42-43)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (43-44) 

203,  205,  207,  21 1 ,  307,  31 1 ,  313;  (44-45)  204,  206,  208, 

212,401,402,408,410,412 

GROSS,  L.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 

(41-42)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212,  (42-43) 

307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ; 
(44-45)402,408,410,412 

GROSSMAN,  R.  (55-56)  209,  211,213 

GRUETZMACHER,  R,  (39-40)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 

109 

GUST,  L.  (52-53)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (53-54)209, 

210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (54-55)  303,  304,  305, 
306,  309,  310,  311 ,  312,  (55-56)403,  404,  409,  413,  414, 
420 

GUTE,  J.  (47-48)102, 106, 108;  (48-49)203,  204,  205,  206, 

207,  208,  21 1,212:  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307,  308, 

311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51 )  403, 404,  409,  410,  413, 414; 

(51-52)455,456,458 

HABECK,  J,  (52-53)  21 1,216,  303 

HACKER,  H.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107. 108, 109. 110;  (56-57) 

209.  210.211.212.  213.  214,  215,  216:  (57-58) 303. 304, 

305,306,309,310,311,312 

HAHN,  A.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109:  (53-54)209,  210, 

211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (54-55)303,  304,  305,  306,  309, 

310,  31 1 ,  312;  (55-56)  403,  404. 409,  413.  414.  420;  (56-57) 
415,416.417,418.443.444 

HAHN,  R,  (46-47)  105, 107 

HAID,  D.  (51  -52)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593;  (52-53)  591 ,  599 

HALANDER.R.  (54-55)304,414 

HALIBEY,  T.  (54-55)  104. 108:  (55-56)  209.  210,  211 ,  212, 

213,  214,  215,  216.  (56-57)303,  304, 305,  306,  309,  310, 

311 ,  312;  (57-58)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420 
HALLER,  C,  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109. 110 
HAMMOND,  J.  (41-42)  401 ,  402.  403,  404,  407,  408,  409, 
410.411 

HAMPTON,  J.  (46-47)  102, 106. 108. 203,  205,  207. 211 ; 

(47-48)  307.  311,  313;  (48-49)308,  312,  314,  401 ,  407, 

409,  41 1 ,  493.  (49-50)  402,  408. 410.  412.  494;  (57-58)  501 . 

502 

HANDZELL,  J.  (47-48)  102. 106, 108;  (48-49)203,  204,  205, 

206, 207, 208,  211 .  212;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306, 307, 


308,  31 1,312,  313,  314.  (50-51 )  109,  403,  404.  409.  410. 

413,414,(51-52)455,456,458 

HANLEY,  H,  (42-43)  101 ,  102, 105, 106. 107, 108;  (43-44) 

203, 207.  211 ,  307. 311 .  (44-45)  204,  205,  206.  208, 

212 

HANNAFORO,  R,  (39-40)  203, 204, 205, 206,  207,  208,  210. 

211,  (40-41 )  303.  304.  307.  308,  31 1,312:  (45-46)  407. 

(46-47)401,402,407 

HANSCHE,  R.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (56-57) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (57-58)303, 304, 

305, 3P6, 309, 310, 311, 312 

HARASCIUK,  J,  (57-58)  209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215, 

216 

HAROMAN,  I.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,204,205,206,207,208,211,212,(50-51)303.304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1,312;  (51-52)  403,  404,  409.  410. 

413.414,(52-53)415,416.453,454 

HARLA,  R.  (42-43)  203,  205,  207,  211  (45-46)  102, 105, 

307.  31 1 ;  (46-47)  212.  31 3,  314, 401 .  402.  409,  410;  (47-48) 

408,412,494 

HARMS,  0.(51-52)103. 107. 109 

HARRINGER.  0.  (44-45)  204. 206.  208.  212:  (45-46)  307, 

311.313 

HARRIS,  R.  (53-54)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109, 1 10 

HARRISON,  L.  (46-47)204,  206,  207,  212,  307,  311,  313, 

314,  (47-48)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ,  494;  (48-49)  401 ,  407,  409, 

411,494 

HART,  P,  (51  -52)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593:  (52-53)  521 ,  522, 

591,599 

HARTSHORNE,  P,  (48-49)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 

(49-50)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211,  212,  314; 

(50-51 )  303.  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312:  (51  -52) 

403,  404,  409,  410,  413,  414.  (52-53)415.  416.  453,  454 

HARTZELL,  R,  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

HASSKARL,  W.  (39-40)203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208. 210. 

211;  (40-41 )  303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1,312:  (41-42)  401 ,  402. 

403.404.407.408,409,410,412 

HAnAM,  J,  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108:  (47-48)  204, 

208,210 

HAUCK,  J,  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (55-56) 

209, 210,211,212, 213, 214, 215, 216, 413 

HAWRY,  H.  (56-57)  462,  464,  510:  (57-58)  501 ,  502,  597 

HAYASHLR.  (55-56)  109 

HEALY,  G.  (40-41)101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109: 

(41-42)  203,  204, 207, 208, 210. 212 

HEODEN,  E,  (47-48)  102. 106. 108:  (48-49)  203,  204,  205. 

206,  207, 208, 21 1,212:  (49-50)  301 ,  305,  307, 31 1 ,  313 

HEDLUND,  R.  (51-52)  103, 104. 107. 108, 109, 110:  (52-53) 

209,210,211,212,213,214,  215;  (53-54)  309,  310,  311. 

312;  (54-55)  403, 404.  409,  413.  414. 420;  (55-56)  415. 416. 

417.418.443.444 

HEINRICH,  J.  (50-51)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,  210.  211.  212.  213,  214;  (52-53)303,  304,  305.  306. 

307,  308,  31 1 .  312:  (53-54)  303.  403,  404,  409.  413.  414. 

420;  (54-55)305.  415,  417,  443 

HELLMAN,  H.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (47-48)204, 

206,  208,  212:  (48-49)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314;  (49-50) 

301 ,  302, 407, 408,  409, 410,  411 , 412,  493,  494 


158 


IIT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


HELM,J.(55-56)103, 104, 107, 108;  (56-57)  209.211. 213, 

215 

HELSTERN.R  (49-50)101,105,107 

HEMMER,  M.  (56-57)  103.  104.  107. 108.  109.  110 

HENDRICKSON.  R  (46-47)  102.  106. 108.  (47-48)204.  208 

HENRY,  A.  (48-49)  501 ,  503,  504,  591 ,  593,  594 

HENRY.  W.  (50-51 )  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,211,212.213,215 

HERO.  A.  (51-52)103, 104. 107, 108, 109, 110.  (52-53) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215, 216,  (53-54)303,  304, 

309,  310,  311,  312,  (54-55)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420; 

(55-56)415,416,417,416,443,444 

HERRING.  F.  (40-41)101,105,107 

HEWITT.  D.  (54-55)  103, 107, 109,  209,  303 

HICARO.  E.  (54-55)  31 2,  501 ,  502,  505,  508;  (55-56)  521 , 

522,(56-57)599 

HILD.  S.  (39-40)303.  304.  307.  308,  312 

HILL.  W.  (47-48)  106, 108;  (48-49)  203.  207,  21 1 

HILTON,  F.  (48-49)  501 ,  503,  593,  594 

HINKENS.  G.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108;  (47-48)  204,  206.  208. 

212.  (48-49)  307.  308.  311 .  312. 313,  314;  (49-50)  101 ,  301 , 

302, 407, 408, 409. 410. 411. 412. 493. 494 

HIROSE.  S.  (55-56)  303. 31 1 .  501 ,  502.  505,  508,  593 

HIHERMAN.R.  (55-56)  103, 107 

HIPELIUS.R.  (53-54)  103, 107,109 

HOAK.  W.  (45-46)203,  205,  207,  211 

HOBMANN.  R.  (55-56)  103, 104. 107. 108. 109 

HOCHSTAnER,  R.  (55-56)  103. 104, 107, 108. 109. 1 10. 

303,  304,  (56-57)209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216; 

(57-58)305,306.309,310,311,312 

HOEPER.  H.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108. 109. 110 

HOFFENBERG.  0.(51-52)501 

HOFGESANG,  J.  (44-45)  204, 206,  208. 21 2;  (45-46)  307, 

31 1,313,  (46-47)  212,  401 ,  402,  407,  408, 409.  410, 411 , 

412;  (51-52)501.  502. 509,593 

HOLCOMB,  J.  (46-47)203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208. 212; 

(47-48)  308,  312,  314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409, 

410,411,412,493,494 

HOLLANO,  J.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)204. 

206.  208.  212;  (48-49)307.  308.  311.  312,  313,  314;  (49-50) 

301 ,  302,  407,  408, 409, 410, 411, 412, 493, 494 

HOLLENBACK,  R.  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109. 110, 

(54-55)209, 210, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215, 216; (55-56) 

303, 304. 305, 306, 309, 310, 311, 312 

HOLMES,  E.  (42-43)402 

HOLSTROM,  R.  (43-44)  205, 307,  311 ,  313;  (44-45)  106, 

203,  204,  208, 211, 212, 401 , 407, 410, 412 

HONDA,  B.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108,  203,  205,  207,  211; 

(47-48)  307,  311 ,  313; 48-49)308, 312, 314.  401 ,  407, 409. 

411,  493;  (49-50)  402,  408,  410,  412, 494 

HORAN,  R.  (50-51)  103, 107, 109,  205 

HORITA,  S.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10;  (55-56) 

209,  210,  21 1,212,  213,  214, 215,  216;  (56-57)  303,  304. 

305,  306,  309.  310,  311,  312;  (57-58)403.  404,  409,  413, 

414,420 

HORITZ.  R,  (52-53)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  (53-54) 

209,211,213,215 

HORN,  A.  (43-44)  101 .  203, 207, 211 ,  307,  31 1 ,  409; 


(44-45)204,  208,  212,  312, 314,  401,  408.  412 

NORTON.  W.  (38-39)203,  204,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313, 

314,  (39-  40)  305,  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407,  408,  409,  410, 

411,412 

HORWrrZ.  N.  (45-46)  101 ,  105,  107;  (46-47)  203,  205,  207, 

208 

HOUHA.T.  (50-51)209.  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216, 

(51-52)  303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (52-53) 

403,  404,  409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)415,  416,  417,  418, 

443, 444 

HOWE,  A.  (39-40)  401 ,  403,  407,  409,  41 1 

HRABCAK,  M.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (56-57)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310.  311 .  312.  (57-58)403.  404.  409.  413. 

414.420 

HRUBY,  L.  (44-45)  102. 106. 108;  (45-46)  203.  205,  207, 

21 1 ;  (46-  47)  307,  308,  31 1,312,  313,  314.  (47-48)  401 . 

407.  409.  41 1 .  494;  (48-49)  402.  410 

HUDNUT.F.  (54-55)103,107 

HUOSON,  B.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107, 108;  (56-57)209,  210, 

211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  (57-58)303,  304,  305.  306.  309. 
310,311 

HUFFMAN, N. (50-51)103, 107, 109 

HUNTER,  C.  (54-55)  104, 108 

HUSSMAN,  G.  (38-39)  201 ,  203,  205,  207,  401 

HUSTOLES,  E.  (47-48)  102. 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206.  207.  208.  211,  212;  (49-50)301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 

414;  (51-52)  455,  456, 458 

HUSTON,  0.  (50-51 )  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,211,213,215 

HUTCHINS,  G.  (42-43)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

HUnON,  C,  (50-51 )  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  212; 

(51-52)  209,  210,  211 ,  213,  214,  215,  216,  306;  (52-53) 

303,  304,  305,  307.  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)  403.  404,  409, 

413,  414,  420.  (54-55)305.  415.  416.  417.  418.  443.  444 
HUnON,  W.  (39-40)  401 .  402.  403.  404.  407.  408.  409. 
410.411,412 

HYAMS,  M.  (39-40)  102. 106. 108. 109 

HYAMS,  N.  (40-41)  102, 105, 106, 108, 109;  (41-42)203, 

204,  206,  207,  208,  210, 212;  (42-43)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312, 

313.  314,  402,  408,  410,  412.  (43-44)401 ,  407,  409,  411, 

(44-45)501,508,509 

INAN.M.  (51-52)103, 104,107,108,109, 110 

ISHIHARA.  K.  (54-55)  104, 108, 110.  (55-56)209,  210,  211 , 

212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (56-57)303,  304,  305.  306,  309, 
310.  311 .  312;  (57-58)  110.  403.  404,  409,  413,  414,  420 
JACHEC,  S.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (49-50) 
203,204,205,207,208,211,212 

JACHNA,  J.  (56-57)109 

JACKSON.  B.  (56-57)  403,  404, 409, 420 

JACOBS,  A.  (50-51)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110;  (51-52) 

209.  210.  21 1 ,  213.  214.  215.  216.  (52-53)  212.  303, 304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311,31 2;  (53-54)  403.  404.  409, 413. 

414,  420,  (54-55)405.  406,  415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 
JACOBS,  L.  (38-39)407,  408,  409, 410 

JACOBS,  T.  (54-55)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (55-56) 
209,  210,  211 ,  212, 213, 214,  215. 216,  413,  414;  (56-57) 


303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,  311 ,  312;  (57-58)403,  404, 

409  416,420 

JAKUBOWSKI.  A.  (38-39)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410, 

(39-40)205 

JANSONE,  V.  (50-51 )  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593,  594,  (51-52) 

521,591 

JANULIS,K,  (57-58)502,597 

JARONSKI,  E,  (47-48)  102,  106, 108,  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206,207,208,211,212 

JENSEN,  W.  (57-58)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 1 10 

JIMENO,  0.(56-57) 501,  502,  508 

JOERGER,  J.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108,  203,  205,  207,  211, 

(47-48)  307,  31 1,313;  (48-49)  308,  312,  314,  401 ,  407, 

409,  41 1 ,  493;  (49-50)  402,  408,  410,  41 2,  494 

JOHANSON,L.  (38-39)407,409 

JOHNSON,  0.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212,  (50-51 )  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (51-52)  403,  404,  409,  410, 

413,414,(52-53)415,416,453,454 

JOHNSON,  G.  (56-57)210.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  215.  (57-58) 

303.304.305.306,309.310.311,312 

JOHNSON,  L.  (42-43)  203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208;  (43-44) 

211 ,  307.  31 1.313.  (44-45)  212.  312.  314.  410.  (45-46)  407. 

108 

JOHNSON,  LOUIS  (51-52)209.  210.  213.  214.  215.  303; 

(52-53)  303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1,312;  (53-54) 

403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420;  (54-55)305,  415,  416,  417, 

418,  443,  444;  (55-56)462,  508,  509;  (56-57)461 ,  463,  465. 

502(57-58)591.599 

JOHNSON,  N.  (53-54)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10,  (54-55) 

209,211,213,215;(55-56)209,213 

JOHNSON,  R.  E.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204, 

205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1,212,  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306. 

307,  308,  31 1,312,  313,  314.  (50-51 )  403,  404,  409,  410, 

413,  414;  (51-52)453, 454 

JOHNSON,  R.  F.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 

(49-50)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212.  (50-51) 

303.  304.  305.  306.  307.  308.  311.  312.  (51-52)403.  404. 

409.  410,  413,  414;  (52-53)  415, 416,  453,  454 

JOHNSON,  W.  (44-45)  102, 106, 108;  (45-46)  203,  205,  207, 

211;  (46-47)307,  311 ,  313,  314;  (47-48)204,  308,  312,  314; 

(48-  49)  401 ,  402,  407, 408, 409, 410.  411 . 412. 493. 494 

JONES,  R.  (51-52)505.  508.  509.  593.  (52-53)  458.  506. 

591 . 594 

JORDAN,  D.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  209, 

303,304 

KAAL,  H.  (50-51 )  303,  304,  305,  306.  307,  308,  31 1 .  31 2; 

(51-52)  403,  404,  409,  410,  413,  414;  (52-53)415,  416, 

453,454 

KAISER,  E.  (53-54)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10;  (54-55) 

209,  210,  21 1 .  212,  213,  214,  215;  (55-56)  305.  306,  309, 

310,  31 1 ,  312;  (56-57) 403,  404,  409, 414,  420.  (57-58) 415, 

416,417.418.443.444 

KAJIOKA,  A.  (54-55)  103. 107.  211.  212.  213.  214;  (55-56) 

303.  304,  305.  306.  309,  310,  311. 312,  (56-57)403,  404, 

409,414,420 

KALISZEWSKI,  R.  (50-51 )  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110; 

(52-53)  303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2;  (53-54) 


403,  404  409,  413,  414,  420;  (54-55)459,  460,  461 ,  462, 

463,464,465,466 

KALOGERAS,  C,  (41-42)  101 ,  102,  105, 106, 107, 108. 

(42-43)  203.  205,  207,  21 1 ,  (46-47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312, 

313,  314,  (47-48)402,  408,  410  412,  494 

KALTENBACH,  C.  (49-50)  105, 106, 107,  203,  205,  206,  21 1 , 

212,  (50-51 )  213,  214,  215,  413,  (51-52)303,  304,  305,  306, 
307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (52-53)403,  404,  409,  410,  414.  415, 
(53-54)416,417,418,443,444 

KAMEL,  A.  (46-47)502,  (46-49)  509,  591 

KANAZAWA,  H.  (52-53)  501 ,  502,  505,  508;  (53-54)  521 , 

591,599 

KANE,  J.  (56-57)  103.  104,  107, 108,  (57-58)  209,  210,  21 1 

212,213,214,215 

KANNE,  S.  (48-49)  101 ,  102,  105, 106, 107,  108,  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212,  (50-51)210,  213. 

303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  306,  311 ,  312,  (51-52)403,  404, 

409,  410,  413,  414;  (52-53)  415,  416,  453,  454 

KANTAPUTRA,  R.  (55-56)  312,  501 ,  502,  505,  508,  593, 

(56-57)  51 1 ,  521 .  597,  599,  (57-58)  599 

KAPLAN  (KERMAN),  B  (46-47)  308, 312.  313.  314.  401 . 

402.  (47-48)  208.  212.  (48-49)  307.  308.  31 1 .  31 2.  412; 

(49-50)313.  402. 407. 408. 409. 410. 493, 494 

KAPLAN,  8.(49-50)302,  306. 308, 312.  (50-51)  403.  404. 

409,  410,  413,  414.  (51-52)455,  456,  458 

KAPSALIS.T.  (48-49)  203 

KARDIS.  C.  (53-54)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (54-55) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (55-56)  209,  212, 

303,  304,  305,  306, 309.  (56-57)  209.  305,  309,  31 1 

KARPUSZKO.K.  (55-56)215 

KASAMOTO.  H.  (43-44)  501 ,  503,  505;  (46-47)  502,  509, 

510;(47-48)512, 591, 594  (Audit) 

KASISZEWSKI.  R  (51-52)209,  210, 211 ,  212,  213,  214, 

215,216 

KASSOVIC.  S,  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

KASTARLAK.  B  (56-57)310,  463,  464,  501 ,  505,  509 

KATZWANN.T.  (45-46)203,  205,  207,  211 

KAUFMAN,  V.  (46-47)  204,  21 1 ,  (47-48)  307.  31 1 ,  31 3, 

(48-49)  308.  312.  31 4.  401 .  407.  409.  41 1 ,  493,  (49-50) 

402,408,410,412,494 

KEARNEY,  J.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (52-53) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215.  (53-54)303,  304,  309, 

310,  31 1,312;  (54-55)  403,  404. 409,  413,  414,  420.  (55-56) 
459,460,461,462,463,464,465 

KEEFE,  H.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

KEFER,  A.  (41-42)  101 , 102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (42-43) 

203,  205,  207.  21 1 ;  (46-47)  203,  204,  206,  208.  212,  307, 

311,313,314;  (47-48)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ,  494;  (48-49)  402, 

408,410,412,494 

KEHOE,  W.  (47-48)  106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204,  205,  206, 

207,  208,  211,  212,  (49-50)301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307,  308. 

31 1 .  312.  313.  314,  (50-51 )  109, 403, 404,  409,  410,  413, 
414;(51-52)453,454 

KEILMAN,  R.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108,  (53-54)209,  211 , 

213,  215;  (56-57)209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215, 216, 
(57-58)  303.  304.  305. 306. 309. 310. 311. 312 
KEIPERT,  W.  (48-49)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107, 108.  (49-50) 
203,  204.  205.  206.  207,  208,  21 1,212.  (50-51 )  303,  304, 


305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312.  (51-52)403,  404,  409,  410, 

413,414,(52-53)413,415,416,453,454 

KEKATOS.  T.  (49-50)  105,  203,  205,  206;  (50-51 )  209,  210, 

211,212,213,  214,  (51  -52)  303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308, 

31 1,312;  (52-53)  403,  404,  409,  410,  413,  414,  (53-54)  415, 

416,417,416,443,444 

KELIUOTIS.  R.  (55-56)  103,  104, 107, 108,  109, 110. 

(56-57)  209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (57-58) 

303, 304, 305, 306, 309, 310, 311,  312 

KELLEY.  R,  (51-52)  103,  104, 107, 108, 109,  110,  (52-53) 

209,  211 ,  213,  215,  (56-57)303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310, 

311,  312,  (57-58)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420 

KELLIHER.  R.  (45-46)  205.  (46-47)  203,  21 1 ,  307,  308,  312, 

311,31 3,  314,  (47-48)  402,  408,  410,  412,  494,  (48-49)  501 , 

502,505,506,594 

KELLY,  G.  (56-57)  1 10;  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109 

KELLY,R.  (54-55)210, 212, 214, 216 

KIDO,  L.  (57-58)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110, 303,  304, 

413  414 

KIEDAISCH,  M.  (54-55)  1 10;  (55-56)  103, 104, 107. 108, 

109;(56-57)209,  210,211.212.213.  214.215.216; 

(57-56) 303,  304, 305, 306, 309, 310, 311 , 312 

KIJOWSKI.  J.  (54-55)  103, 107, 109,  209,  211,  213,  215 

KILL.  R.  (46-47)  102, 108;  (47-48)  204,  206,  208,  212; 

(48-49)  307,  308,  31 1,312,  313,  314;  (49-50)  105,  301 , 

302,  407,  408. 409, 410, 411, 412,  493,  494 
KILLICK.W.  (42-43)101,105, 107 

KIMM.  J.  (55-56)  110;  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109; 

(57-58)209,210,211,212,213,214.215,216 

KING.  P.  (50-51 )  103, 104, 107, 108, 109. 110.  (51-52)  209. 

210,211,212,213,214,215,216,(52-53)303,304,305. 

306,  307,  308,  311,  312;  (53-54)212,  403,  404,  409,  413, 

414.  420,  (54-55)405,  406,  415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 

KINGMAN.  D.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107. 108, 109, 1 10;  (56-57) 

209,210,211,212,213,214,215,216 

KIRK. A. (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)  204, 206, 

208,  212;  (48-49) 307,  308,  31 1 ,  312, 313,  314;  (49-50)301 , 

302, 407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1,412,  493,  494 

KISIELIUS,  A.  (45-46)  101 .  105, 107;  (48-49)  102, 106, 108, 

(49-50)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1,212.  (50-51 ) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (51-52)403,  404, 
409,  410,  413,  414;  (52-53)455,  456,  458 
KISSINGER,  R.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105. 106, 107. 108; 
(50-51)209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (51-52) 
303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308, 311 ,  312;  (52-53)  403,  404, 
409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 
KITE,  C.  (46-47)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  212;  (47-48) 
308,  312,  314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402,  407,  408.  409.  410.  41 1 , 
412,493,494 

KLARICH.  L.  (41-42)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (42-43) 
203,  204,  205,  206.  207,  208.  21 1 .  212;  (43-44)  307,  31 1 , 
313,  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ,  (44-45)308.  312.  314.  402.  510; 
(48-49)  501 .  502.  505.  593.  594;  (49-50)  591 .  599 
KLEH.  0.(56-57)  104. 108 

KLIMCZAK,  C.  (47-48) 308;  (48-49)307,  308.  311 .  312, 409; 
(49-50)205.211.410 
KLINGENSTEIN,J.(50-51)103.107.109 
KLIPHAROT.R.  (38-39)409 


159 


NT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


KIUGE.E.  (52-53)  209,  211.213,215 
KNIGHT,  J.  (46-47)  501 ,  502,  503,  504,  505,  506,  591 
KOCKELMAN.  W.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 
(50-51 )  209,  210,  21 1,212,  213,  214,  215;  (51-52)  304, 
305,  306,  307,  308, 311,  312;  (52-53)403,  404,  409,  410, 

413,  414;  (53-54)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466. 
(57-58)511,512 

KOCONIS.  P.  (42-43)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 , 

212;  (43-44) 307,  311,31 3,  401 ,  407,  409,  411,  (44-45)  308, 

312,314,402 

KOKESH,  F.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108,  206;  (48-49)203,  204, 

205,206,207,208,211,212 

KOLLATH,  R.  (56-57)  104, 108,  209,  211 ,  212,  215,  303; 

(57-58)210,  213,  214,  304,  413,  414,  417,  418 

KOMATER.  A.  (50-51 )  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (52-53)  212,  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)403,  404,  409,  413, 

414,  420;  (54-55)459.  460.  461 .  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 
KORN,  R.  (51-52)  110,  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 
215,  216;  (53-54)209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214;  (54-55)303, 

304,  305,  306, 309,  310,  31 1 ,  312,  413,  414;  (55-56)  403, 
404,  409,  415,  416,  420;  (56-57)417,  418,  443,  444,  463,464 
KOSOVER,  L.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108,  (48-49)203,  204,  205, 
206,  207,  208,  211, 212;  (49-50)301,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51 )  403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414;  (51-52)  455, 456, 458 

KOVAL.  R.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 

(45-46)203,205,207,211 

KOVICH.  R.  (41-42)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

KOZELK.  (51-52)  110;  (52-53)  103, 107 

KRAFT,  L.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

KRAKOWSKY.  P.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)203,  204, 

205,206,207,208,211,212 

KRAMER,  C.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  (53-54) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (54-55)209,  305,  306, 

309,  310,  311,  312;  (55-56)403, 404,  409,  413,  414,  420; 
(56-57)  416,  417,  418,  443,  444, 463 

KRAUSE.R.  (47-48)  106 

KROFTA,  J.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 107, 108,  203,  205,  206, 

(50-51 )  209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214;  (52-53)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)403,  404,  409,  413, 
414, 420;  (54-55)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466; 
(55-56)  51 1 ,  51 2;  (56-57)  501 ,  51 1 ,  591 ,  599 
KRUEGER.K,  (56-57)501,505,597 

KRUIZE,  H.  (46-47)203,  206,  207,  212;  (47-48)308,  312, 

314;  (48-49)401. 402. 407, 408,  409,  410,  411 ,  412,  493, 

494 

KRUMINS.  E.  (54-55)103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (55-56) 

209,  210,  21 1 ,  212,  213. 214. 215.  216;  (56-57)  303.  304, 

305,  306, 309, 310. 311 ,  312:  (57-58)403,  404,  409, 413, 

414,420 

KRUMSIEG,  F.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208, 211 ,  212;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311 ,  312, 313,  314;  (50-51 )  403, 404,  409,  410, 413, 

414;  (51-52)453, 454 

KUBICKA,  A.  (38-39)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  410 

KUEHNER,J.(56-57)103,107,109 

KUESTER,  D.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (53-54) 


107,(56-57)215 

KUIZINAS,  V.  (44-45)308,  314;  (45-46)307,  407,  409, 410 

KULIEKE,  C.  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208, 

312;  (39-40)  303,  304,  307,  308,  312;  (40-41)  401 ,  402,  403, 

404,407,408,409,410,411,412 

KULPS,  J.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110.  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (56-57)303,  305, 

309,311 

KULWIEC,  W.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108:  (55-56)209,  210, 

21 1,212,  213,  214,  215,  (56-57)  303,  304,  305,  306,  309, 

310,  311 ,  312;  (57-58)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420 

KUNKA,  J.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10;  (52-53) 

209,  210,  21 1 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (53-54)  303,  304, 

309,  310,  31 1 ,  312:  (54-55)  403, 404,  409,  413,  414,  420; 

(55-56)415,  416. 417,  418,  443,  444 

KUREK.J.  (52-53)103, 104,107,108, 109, 110 

KURESHY,  M.  (55-56)  501 ,  502,  505,  508,  593;  (56-57)  51 1 , 

521,  597,  599;  (57-58)599 

LACKNER,  B.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109 

LACKNER,  L.  (41-42)  203,  205,  207,  210,  (45-46)  203,  307, 

311,313 

LADIN,  J.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216:  (56-57)303, 305, 

309,311 

LANE,  E.  (38-39)  101 ,  102, 105. 106, 107. 108,  204;  (39-40) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  21 1 :  (40-41 )  303,  304, 

307,  308,  31 1,312;  (41-42)  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407,  408, 

409,410,411,412 

LANE,  H.  (40-41)101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109:  (41-42) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212,  (42-43)  307,  311, 

313;  (46-47)  401 ,  402,  407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1 ,  412 

LAPASSO.  L.  (38-39)  203,  204,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313, 

314;  (39-  40)  305,  401 ,  402,  403,  407,  408,  409,  411 

LAPASSO,  L.  (46-47)204.  208.  212 

LARAIA.J.(50-51)103,107,109 

LARRAIN,J.(52-53)501,502,505 

LARSON,  G.  (39-40)  203,  204, 205, 206,  207,  208,  210,211, 

(40-41 )  303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312:  (41  -42)  401 ,  402, 

403,  404,  407,  408,  409,  410,  411 ,  412;  (42-43)  501 ,  502 

LARSON,  R.  (44-45)101 

LAHVE,  8.  (51-52)212,213 

LASKY,  J.  (53-54)211 ,  212,  213,  214,  303,  304;  (54-55) 

309,  310,  311,  312;  (55-56)306,  403,  404,  409,  413,  414, 

420;  (56-57)  305, 415,  417, 418, 443, 444 

LA  VINE,  J.  (42-43)  101, 102, 107, 108 

LAWSON,  E.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  21 1,212,  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,311,312,313,314 

LEA,  \.  (50-51 )  103, 104, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52)  209,  210, 

211,  212,  213,  214,  215, 216;  (52-53)  303,  304,  305,  306, 

307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420: 

(54-55)  405,  406,  413,  415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 

LEAVin,H.  (43-44)307,311,313 

LEE,  H.  (48-49) 101 , 102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50)  203, 

204,205,206,207,208,211,212 

LEHMANN,  K.  (57-58)  501 ,  502,  505,  506,  597 

LEIB,  M.  (47-48)204,  206,  208,  212;  (48-49)  106,  307,  308, 

31 1,312,  313,  314,  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  407,  408,  409,  410, 


411,412,493,494 

LEISERING,  A.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204, 

205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212,  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306, 

307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314,  (50-51)403.  404,  409.  410. 
413,414,(51-52)455,456,458 

LEMON,  0.(42-43)313,  314 

LEMPP,  G.  (50-51 )  501 ,  505,  (51  -52)  502,  508:  (52-53)  591 , 

599; (53-54) 599 

LENART,  C.  (39-40)303,  304,  307,  308,  312;  (40-41)401, 

402,  403, 404, 407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1 , 412 

LENZ,  C.  (51-52)103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  (52-53)209, 

210,  21 1,212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (53-54)  303,  304,  309, 

310,  31 1 ,  312;  (54-55)  403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420;  (55-56) 

415,416,417,418,443,444 

LERNER,A.(45-46)101,107 

LEVAN,A.(55-56)103,107 

LEVINE,  B.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108,  (48-49)203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212,  (49-50)301, 302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314,  (50-51)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414;  (51-52)455,  456,  458 

LEVINE,  L.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107;  (46-47)  203,  205,  206, 

207,208,211,212 

LEWIS,  A.  (42-43)  501 ,  503,  505,  506,  508, 509, 51 1 , 592 

LIBRIZZI,  G.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 

LIFSCHUTZ,  I.  (40-41)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109: 

(41-42)203,205,207,210 

LILLIBRIDGE,  A.  (40-41 )  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1 ; 

(41-42)  303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1,312:  (42-43)  402,  408, 

410,412 

LINDAHL,  J.  (38-39)  407,  408,  409,  410 

LINDAHL,R.  (49-50)101,105,107 

LINDGREN,  C.  (54-55)209,  210,  211, 212,  213,  214,  215, 

216,413,414 

LINDGREN,  E.  (39-40)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210, 

21 1 ;  (40-41 )  303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2;  (41  -42)  401 ,  402. 

403.  404,  407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1 , 412 

LINKE,  R.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (52-53) 

209,  210,  21 1 ,  212,  213,  214, 215, 216,  (53-54)  303,  304, 

309,  310,  311 ,  312,  (54-55)403, 404,  409,  413,  414,  420: 
(55-56)415,416,417,418,443,444 

LIPPERT,  J.  (54-55)  501 ,  502,  505,  508;  (55-56)  521 ,  522, 

593, 599 

LISTER,  D.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208, 211 ,  212,  (50-51 )  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (51-52)403,  404,  409,  410, 

413,414 

LISTON,  L.  (47-48)  204,  206, 208, 212;  (48-49)  307,  308, 

311,312,313,314;  (49-50)  301 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410, 

411,412,493,494 

LIU,  D.  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (54-55)209, 

210,  21 1 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (55-56)  303,  304, 305, 
306,309,310,311,312 

LLOYO,H.  (45-46)101,105,107 

LO,  W.  (49-50)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  594,  595.  (50-51 )  521 , 

522,591,593,594 

LOnUS,  T.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10 

LO  GALBO,  S.  (54-55)  103, 105, 107, 108.  (55-56)  209.  210. 

211,212,213,214,215.(56-57)212.309,310,311,312; 


(57-58)  403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420 

LOHAN,  0.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  210,  416 

LOHMANN,  W.  (56-57)  501 ,  502,  505,  508,  597,  (57-58) 

521,597,600 

LOPEZ-DIAZ,  W.  (39-40)101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 

(40-41)203,205,207,210 

LORANO,  A.  (51-52)303 

LORMER,  W.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)  204, 

206,  208,  212;  (48-49)307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (49-50) 

301 , 302, 407, 408, 409, 410, 411 , 412, 493, 494 

LUNDE,  0.(56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108 

LUNGARO,  0.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (56-57)303. 305. 

309,311 

LYOEN,  R.  (41-42)203,  204,  205,  206, 207,  208, 212: 

(42-43)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314,  (47-48)  402,  408, 

410,412,494 

LYONS,  P.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110.  (56-57) 

209,210,211,212,213,214,215,216 

McALVEY,  0.  (44-45)  102, 106, 108:  (45-46)  102,  203, 207, 

211;  (46-47)  307,  308,  311,312,313,314 

McARTHUR,  W.  (41-42)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

McBRIDE,  R.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  209; 

(57-58)209, 210, 211 , 212, 213, 214, 215, 216 

Mccarty,  h.  (38-39)20i ,  202, 205, 206, 207, 208, 312 

McCOY,  H.  (42-43)  101 ,105, 107,  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 
107, 108:(47-48)204, 206, 208,212 

Mcdowell,  e.  (48-49)  503, 505, 599:  (49-50)  502, 595 
Mcdowell,  g.  (54-55)  104, 108,  no 

McGINNIS,  R.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)  204, 
206,  208,  212;  (48-49)  307,  308,  31 1,312,  313,  314;  (49-50) 

301 ,  302,  407, 408, 409, 410, 411, 412,  493, 494 
McGREW,  C.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108,  205 

McKINSY,  R.  (40-41 )  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 

(41-42)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212,  (46-47) 

212,  307,  31 1 ,  401 ,  402,  410,  412;  (47-48)  21 1 ,  313,  408, 

494 

McLEAN,  0.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108;  (47-48)  204,  208,  212; 

(48-49)307,  308,  313,  314,  (49-50)205,  206,  311 ,  312, 

411,412 

McMASTER,  W.  (40-41 )  203,  205,  206,  207,  210,  21 1 ; 

(41  -42)  303,  204,  208,  212;  (42-43) 307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2, 

313,  314;  (45-46)  102, 108:  (46-47)  212,  401 ,  402,  407,  408, 

409,410,411,412 

McRAE,  A.  (45-46)  207,  307;  (46-47)  211,311,312,313, 

314,409 

MAAS,  P.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

MAHER,  P.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 106, 107, 108,  301 ,  302,  313, 

314;(50-51)209,211,213 

MAHN,  C.  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208, 

312 

MAJESKI,  R.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107,  (47-48)  102, 106, 108; 

(48-49)  203,  204,  205,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  21 2;  (49-50)  301 , 

302,  305,  306,  307,  308, 311,312,313;  (50-51 )  305,  403, 
404,  409,  410,  413,  414,  (51-52)455,  456,  458 
MAJEWSKI,  D.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108;  (57-58)209. 
210,211.212,213,214,215 

MALCOLMSON,  R.  (47-48)  502,  505,  (48-49)  503,  591 ,  599 


MALIS,  L,  (48-49)101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

MALMGREN,  K.  (45-46)  102, 108,  203,  205,  207, 211 ; 

(46-47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314;  (47-48)  402,  408, 

410,  412,  494,  (48-49)  105, 106,  501 ,  502,  505,  506,  593, 

594 

MANDEL,  E.  (38-39)  203,  204,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314; 

(39-40)  305,  401 ,  402, 403, 404, 407, 408, 409, 410, 411 , 

412 

MANICKAM,  B.  (47-48)  502,  51 2,  592,  594 

MANNY,  C.  (46-47)  208,  501 ,  502,  503,  506:  (47-48)  308, 

312,408,494 

MANSBACH,  G.  (52-53)  103, 107, 109:  (53-54)  209,  211 , 

213,215 

MANSFIELD,  W.  (45-46)  102,  203,  205,  207,  211;  (46-47) 

307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314,  (47-48)402,  408,  410, 412, 

494 

MARKIEWICZ,  M.  (53-54)  209, 21 1 ,  213 

MARKISON,  W.  (56-57)  103, 107, 109;  (57-58)  104, 108, 

110 

MARSCH,  E.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108,  (56-57)  209,  210, 

211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215.  (57-58)303,  304, 305,  306. 309. 

310.311.312 

MARSHMENT,  D.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107;  (46-47)  203,  204, 

205,206,207,208,212 

MARSTELLER,  J.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10,  303, 

304 

MARTENS,  G.  (49-50)  105,  203,  204, 205,  207,  208,  211 , 

212 

MARTIN,  N.  (44-45)  204, 206, 208, 212:  (45-46)  307. 31 1 , 

313.  (46-47)  401 .  402,  407,  408, 409, 410,411,412 

MAHTINEK.G.  (39-40)  106, 108, 109;  (40-41)  203,  204, 

205,206,207,208,210,211 

MARTINKUS,  J.  (57-58)  209,  210, 211 ,  212,  213,  214, 215 

MARTINSON,  E.  (49-50)  106;  (50-51)  209,  210,  21 1,212, 

213,  214,  215,  216:  (51-52)303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308, 

311,312;  (52-53)  403,  409,  413;  (54-55)  403,  404,  409,  41 3, 

414,420 

MARUBAYSHI,  R.  (43-44)  101 ,107,  203,  205,  207,  211 : 

(44-45)  102, 108,  206,  308,  312, 314,  401 ;  (45-46)407. 

409.410 

MARX,  G.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110:  (56-57) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (57-58)303,  305, 

309,311 

MASON,  J.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

MATHER,  R.  (46-47)  102. 108:  (47-48)204.  208.  212: 

(49-50)301 .  302.  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314; 

(50-51 )  403,  404,  409, 410, 413,  414;  (51-52)  455,  456,  458 

MATHES,  C.  (49-50)  102, 106,  203,  204,  205,  301 ,  302 

MATSUMOTO,K.(51-52)103, 104,107, 108, 109,110: 

(52-53)209,211,213,215 

MATUSHEK,  R.  (49-50)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108: 

(50-51)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (51-52) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308, 311 .  312;  (52-53)  403,  404. 

409.  410,  413, 414;  (53-54)  459,  460, 461 ,  462. 463. 464, 

465, 466 

MAXEY,  W.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107:  (46-47)203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  212:  (47-48)308, 312,  314;  (48-49)401,  402, 

407,  408,  409, 410, 41 1 , 41 2, 493, 494 


160 


NT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


MAYBAUM,  J.  (44-45)  106,  203,  204,  205.  208,  211,212 

MEEOS.  V.  (49-50)  101 ,  102,  105, 106,  107,  106,  (50-51 ) 

209,  210.  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215.  216,  (51-52)303,  304. 

305.  306.  307.  308.  311 ,  312.  (52-53)403,  404,  409,  410, 

413,  414;  (53-54)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 

MEEKER.  D.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10 

MEIER,  H.  (51-52)  501 .  502.  505,  509,  593 

MEISTER,  E.  (38-39)  203.  204,  307, 308,  31 1 ,  313,  314 

MEISTER.  E.  (46-47)  102, 106. 108.  203.  205.  207.  21 1 

MELL,  A.  (41-42)  503.  504.  505,  506 

MENZENBERGER.J.  (41-42)101,102, 105,106, 107.108; 

(42-43)  203.  204.  205.  206,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  21 2,  (43-44) 

307,  31 1 .  31 3.  401 .  (44-45) 308,  312.314,  402.  (46-47)  401 . 

402.407.408,409.410.411.412 

MrCALFE,  G.  (46-47)  102. 106.  108,  203.  205,  207.  211 

MICHAELSEN.  J.  (38-39)  101 .  102. 105, 106. 107. 108, 

(39-40)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208, 210,  21 1 ,  (40-41) 

303,  304.  307.  308.  311.312.  (41-42)  401 ,  402.  403.  404. 

407,408.409.410.411.412 

MICHIELS,  J.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108;  (50-51) 

209.  210,  211.  212.  213,  214. 215.  216.  (51-52)303.  304. 

305.  306.  307, 308, 311 ,  312;  (52-53)  403,  404, 409, 410. 

413,  414;  (53-54)  415,  416,  417,  418.  443,  444;  (56-57)501 , 

508,597 

MICKOLAJCZYK,  H.  (38-39)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409, 410 

MILEWSKI,  C,  (48-49)  106,  203,  204,  205,  207,  208,  211 , 

212; (49-  50)301 ,  302.  305.  306.  307.  308.  311. 312, 313. 

314; (50-  51 ) 403.  404. 409. 410. 413.  414;  (51-52)  453. 454 

MILLAR,  D.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108;  (50-51 ) 

209.  210.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  215.  216,  (51-52)303, 304, 

305.  306.  307.  308.  31 1 ,  312.  (52-53)  403.  404  410,  413, 

414;  (53-54)  215,  415,  416.  417,  418.  443.  444 

MILLER,  D.  (38-39)201 ,  202,  203.  204.  205. 206. 207. 208, 

312;  (39-40)  303,  304,  307. 308. 312;  (40-41 )  401 ,  402.  403. 

404,407,408.409.410.411.412 

MILLER,  J.  (54-55)  103, 104. 107. 108, 109. 110;  (55-56) 

209.  210.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  (56-57)303.  304.  305.  306, 

309.  310.  311 ,  312;  (57-58)  403. 404.  409.  413.  414.  420 

MILLER,  J.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49)203.  204.  205. 

206,207,208,211,212 

MILLER,  R,  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107;  (46-47)  203,  204,  205, 

206,207,208.212 

MILLER, W,  (56-57) 501 . 502. 505. 508, 597 

MILINE,  0.(47-48)102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  205,  211 

MILORD,  P.  (50-51)103,104,107,108,109,110 

MINGESZ,  M.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  205,  207, 

211 

MIRANDA,  S.  (56-57)501 .  502,  505,  508,  597 

MIROTSNIC,  J.  (38-39)203. 204, 307, 308,  311 , 312, 313, 

314;  (39-40)  305,  401 ,  402.  403.  404,  407,  408,  409. 410. 

411.412 

MISIALEK,  A.  (50-51 )  104. 108.  215;  (51-52)  209. 21 1 .  213 

MrrCHELL,  J.  (49-50)  101 .  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (50-51) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (51-52)303,  304, 

305,  306,  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (52-53)403.  404.  409. 410. 

413,  414,  (53-54)415,  416,  417.  418.  443.  444 

MITTENBERG,  V.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110; 

(56-57)209.  211. 212. 213. 214, 215, 216, (57-58)303. 


304,305.306.309,310.311,312 

MIWA,  Y.  (51-52)213,  312,  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  (52-53)305, 

306,521,522,(53-54)599 

MODESTO,  N.  (43-44)  101 ,  105, 107,  (47-48)  204,  206,  208, 

212,  (48-49)  307,  308,  31 1,312,  313,  314;  (49-50)  301 ,  302, 

407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1,412, 493, 494 

MONBERG,  W.  (41-42)203,  204.  205.  206.  207,  208,  210. 

212;  (45-  46)  102;  (46-47)  307.  31 1 .  313.  31 4.  401 ,  402. 

410,  (47-48)  106,  402.  408.  410.  412.  494 

MONSON,  D.  (38-39)  101 .  105. 106.  307.  410;  (39-40)206, 

408;  (40-41 )  203,  207,  210,  303,  401 ,  403,  407,  41 1 ,  507; 

(41-42)512,591 

MOORE,  E,  (38-39)  101 ,  102, 105, 106. 107. 108,  (39-40) 

203,  204,  205.  206.  207.  208.  210.  211;  (40-41)  303,  304. 

307.  308.  311 .  312,  (41-42)401,  402.  403.  404.  407,  408, 
409,410,411.412 

MORCOS,  F.  (56-57)  501 .  502.  505.  522.  597;  (57-58)  508, 

597,691,692 

MORGAN.  D.  (39-40)  307.  409.  410.  501 .  502 

MORI,  A.  (48-49)  106,  203,  205,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  212,  (49-50) 

301 .  302.  305.  306.  307.  308.  31 1  312.  313.  31 4;  (50-51 ) 

216.  403.  404.  409.  410.  413.  414;  (51-52)453.  545 

MORITA.C.  (51-52)103.107 

MOROW,  A.  (45-46)  1 02.  203,  207.  21 1 .  (46-47)  307, 308, 

311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (47-48)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ,  494,  (48-49) 

314.402.408,410,412,494.453 

MORRIS,  L.  (50-51 )  501 .  502,  505,  508,  593,  594,  595 

MORRISON,  WM.  (49-50)  206,  208;  (50-51 )  305,  306.  307. 

308.  31 1.312,  (53-54)  303,  304. 403.  409.  413. 414.  420, 
(54-55)405,  406,  415,  416.  443.  444,  (55-56)417,  418 
MOSELEY,  T.  (38-39)  401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410 
MOSS,  E.  (51-52)  103, 107, 109 

MOSS,  M.  (49-50)  204.  212 

MOTZ,  R.  (50-51)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,  210.  211,  212.  213,  214,  215;  (52-53)303,  305,  306, 

307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)  403. 404.  409.  413.  414.  420; 

(54-55)  405,  406,  415.  416.  417.  418.  443.  444 

MOUTOUSSAMY,  J,  (44-45)  101 .  102. 105, 106, 107. 108, 

(45-46)  203.  205.  207.  21 1 ;  (46-47)  307.  308.  31 1 .  31 2. 

313.  314;  (47-48)402.  408. 410. 412. 494 

MOY,  R.  (48-49)  106.  203.  204. 205.  206,  207,  208,  211. 

212;  (49-50)301 , 302. 305. 306. 307. 308. 311 . 312. 313. 

314;  (50-51)403.  404.  409.  410.  413.  414;  (51-52)453.  454 

MOYER,  R.  (42-43)  101 ,  105, 107,  (45-46)  102, 108,  203, 

205,  207.  211.  (46-47)307,  308. 311 ,  312.  313.  314,  (47-48) 

402,408,410,412.494 

MUELLER,  R.  (42-43)  101 .  102. 107. 108.  204 

MUNEIO.N,  (49-40)207.  211 

MUNSON,  J.  (52-53)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110;  (53-54) 

209.  210.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  215;  (54-55)305,  306,  309, 

310,  31 1 ,  312;  (55-56)  403,  404. 409.  413,  414.  420;  (56-57) 

415.416.417.418.443.444,463 

MURMAN.R.  (42-43)101,105,107 

MURPHY,H.  (56-57)103,104,107,108, 109, 110;  (57-58) 

209,210,211,212,213,214,215,216,303 

MURPHY,  P.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106. 107. 108 

MURPHY,  W.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108. 109, 110;  (55-56) 

209.  210.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  215,  216;  (56-57)303, 304. 


305.306,309.310.311.312 

MURRAY,  F.  (48-49)  101 .  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,  204.  205.  206.  207.  208,  21 1 .  212;  (50-51 )  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308.  311 .  312,  (51-52)403.  404.  409. 410. 

413,414.(52-53)455.456.458 

MYERS,  G,  (54-55)  103. 104. 107, 108.  (55-56)209.  211 

213,215 

NAFORSKY,  R.  (42-43)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107. 108; 

(43-44)307.  311 .  313,  (44-45)203,  204,  205,  206,  207. 

208,211,212,401.(45-46)407 

NAIDU,  V.  (55-56)  461 .  463. 464.  465.  466.  505,  508,  509, 

510,(56-57)511.599.591 

NEEDHAM,  F.  (48-49)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107. 108.  (49-50) 

203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208.  211 .  212;  (50-51)303.  304, 
305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (51-52)403,  404.  409,  410, 

413,  414;  (52-53)415,  416,  453,  454 

NEIKRUG,  L.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108,  203,  205,  207,  211; 
(47-48)  307,  31 1 ,  31 3,  (48-49)  308,  31 2,  31 4,  401 .  407, 

409.  41 1 .  493;  (49-50)  402.  408.  410.  412.  494 
NELSEN,  D.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49) 203. 204. 205, 
206,207,208,211,212 

NELSON,  E,  (44-45)308,  312,  314,  (46-47)401 ,  402,  407, 

408,409.411.412.(47-48)204.410 

NELSON,  H.  (46-47)  106. 108. 203,  205. 207,  21 1,  (47-48) 

307.  31 1 .  313;  (48-49)  308,  312, 314, 401 ,  407,  409, 411 , 

493 

NELSON,  JOHN  (46-47)  102. 106. 108.  203.  205.  207,  211 

NELSON,  JOSEPH  (46-47)  203,  204.  205,  206,  207,  208, 

212;  (47-48)  308,  312,  314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402. 407.  408.  409. 

410.411.412.493.494 

NELSON,  K.  (47-48)  204.  206,  208,  212,  (48-49)  307,  308, 

311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  407,  408.  409,  410. 

411,412.493.494 

NELSON,  L.  R.  (49-40)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108, 

(50-51)209.  210.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  215.  216.  (51-52) 

303.  305.  306,  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (52-53)403.  404.  409. 

410.  414;  (53-54)311 ,  415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 
NERAD,  0.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108. 203. 205. 207. 211 ; 
(47-48)  307.  311 ,  313,  (48-49)  308. 312,  314.  401 ,  407, 
409.  41 1 .  493;  (49-50)  402,  408,  410,  412.  494 
NEWMANN,  E.  (56-57)  103, 107, 109 

NICKEL,  R.  (54-55)  413,  (55-56)  209 

NICOUS,  0.  (56-57)  214,  420,  464,  (57-58)  508,  509,  512, 

592 

NIX, E. (43-44)  101. 105. 107 

NOE,  H.  (55-56)  104. 108,  212;  (56-57)  209,  210,  213. 214. 

414.  463.  465.  466,  (57-58)  309,  310, 311 ,  312,  413,  416, 
463 

NOONAN.E.  (57-58)  501.  502.  597 

NORAK.R.  (40-41)  101. 105. 107 

NORDLANDER,  H.  (46-47)  102. 105. 106. 107. 108;  (47-48) 

204,  206,  208,  212;  (48-49)  307. 308.  311 ,  312.  313. 314; 
(49-50) 301 ,  302.  407. 408. 409, 410, 411 , 412, 493, 494 
NORMAN,  R.  (49-50)101,105.107 

NORRIS,  D.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109, 110,  (56-57) 
209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (57-58)303,  304, 
305,306.309.310.311.312 
NORRIS,J.  (41-42)101.105. 107 


NORTHRUP,  L.  (48-49)  203.  204, 205,  206,  207,  208,  211 , 

212,  313,  314,  (49-50)  106,  301 ,  301 ,  305,  306.  307,  308, 

31 1 ,  312,  314;  (50-51 )  109,  403,  404,  409,  410,  413,  414 

NOWAK,  E.  (55-56)  103, 104. 107, 108, 109, 110;  (56-57) 

209. 210.  211 .  212,  213.  214.  215.  216.  (57-58)303.  304, 

305,306,309,311 

NOWICKI,  N.  (54-55)  103. 104, 107, 108,  109,  110.  (55-56) 

209.  210.  21 1 .  212.  213,  214,  215,  216;  (56-57)303.  305. 

309.  311;  (57-58) 309, 311 

NUORTILA,  A.  (57-58)  501 .  505.  597 

O'BRIEN,  E.J.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107. 108. 110;  (56-57)  209. 

211.  212.  213.  214. 215.  (57-58)303.  304.  305.  306.  309. 

310.311.312 

O'BRIEN,  R.  (38-39)201 ,  202,  203,  204,  205,  206, 207, 208, 

312;  (39-40)303,  304,  307,  308,  312;  (40-41)  401 ,  402,  403, 

404,407,408,409,410;411,412 

OGAWA,  Y.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (50-51) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (51-52)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311,312,  (52-53)  403,  404,  409,  410, 

413,  414.  (53-54)415.  416,  417,  418,  443.  444 

OGILVIE.T.  (49-50)101. 102, 105. 106. 107. 108;  (50-51) 

209.  210.  211 .  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (51-52)303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (52-53)403,  404.  409.  410. 
413.  414.  (53-54)413.  415.  416.  417.  418.  443.  444 
OKAMATO,  S.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49)  203.  204.  205. 
206.  207.  208.  21 1 .  212,  (49-50)  301 ,  302.  305.  306. 307, 
308,  311 ,  312.  313.  314,  (50-51)403, 404.  409.  410,  413, 
414,(51-52)453.454 

O'KELLY,  P.  (39-40)  101 .  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 
(40-41 )  203,  204,  205,  206.  207,  208,  210,  21 1 ;  (41-42) 
303,  304,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (42-43)402,  408,  410,  412 
OLENCKI,  E.  (40-41 )  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 
(41-42)  203,  204. 205.  206.  207. 208, 210,  212  .(42-43) 
307.  308.  311.  312.  313.  314.  (43-44)401 ,  407,  409. 411, 
(44-45)  402,  408,  410,  412,  502,  (45-46)  591 
OLEINICK,  H.  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105. 106, 107, 108;  (50-51) 
209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214.  215.  216.  (51-52)303.  305. 

306.  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (52-53)403.  404.  409,  410,  413, 
414;  (53-54) 459,  460, 461 ,  462,  463. 464. 465. 466 
OLSBERG,  E.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49)  203.  204.  205. 
206,207.208.211,212 

OLSON,  J.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108 

OLSON,  R.  (46-47) 203, 204, 205, 206, 207, 208. 212; 

(47-48)  308.  312.  314;  (48-49)  212.  401 .  402.  407.  408, 

409,  410,  411 ,  412,  493,  494;  (49-50)408,  494 

OLSTA,  R.  (39-40)101 ,  102, 105. 106. 107. 108. 109; 

(40-41 )  203.  204. 205, 206, 207, 208, 210, 21 1 

OMESSI,  B.  (57-58)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

O'NEAL,  R.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108.  (48-49)  203.  205,  207, 

211 

O'NEILL,  C.  (57-58)501 .  502.  505.  506,  597 

OOSTERBAAN,  J.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108.  (48-49)  203.  204. 

205,  206,  207,  208.  21 1 .  212;  (49-50)  301 .  302.  305.  306. 

307.  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51)209,  403,  404,  409, 
410,413.414;(51-52)453.454 

ORNSTEIN,  D.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108.  (48-49)  203. 204.  205. 

206.  207.  208,  21 1 .  21 2.  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 


414;(51-52)455,456.458 

ORTEGA,  E.  (50-51)  21 1.212. 213.  214.  215.  216,  (51-52) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  (52-53)  403,  404, 

409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)415,  416,  417.  418,  443, 

444 

OSAKA,  G.  (51-52)  103.  104. 107. 108.  216.  (52-53)209, 

210,211,212,213,214.215.(53-54)209.210.303,304. 

309,  310,  311,  312,  (54-55)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420; 

(55-56)415.416.417,418,443,444 

OSBORN,  A,  (45-46)  102;  (46-47)307,  31 1,312,  401 ,  402; 

(47-48)408,410,411,412,494 

OSTEGREN,  R,  (38-39)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107. 108; 

(39-40)203.205.207.210 

OHENHEIMER,  J,  (51-52)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 1 10 

PADAWER,  P.  (54-55)  103. 104. 107. 108, 110;  (55-56)209. 

210,211,212,  213,  214,  215. 216,  (56-57) 303, 304, 305. 

306,  309,  310,  31 1 ,  312;  (57-58)403. 404,  409.  413. 414, 

420 

PADO,  M,  (51-52)  103, 104. 107. 108;  (52-53)  209,  210, 

211 ,  212,  213. 214. 215;  (53-54)309, 310.  31 1.312,  (54-55) 

403.  404.  409, 413,  414,  420;  (55-56)415,  416,  417, 418, 
443,444 

PADO, T.  (51-52)103.104,107.108.(52-53)209,210,211, 
212,213,214.215,(53-54)309,310,311,312,(54-55)403. 

404,  409,  413.  414.  420;  (55-56)415,  416,  417,  418,  443, 
444 

PALANDECH,  0.(57-58)1 10 

PALENO,  E.  (45-46)  203,  205,  207,  21 1 

PALMER,  R.  (51-52)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593 

PALMER,  W.  (49-50)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107. 108;  (50-51 ) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (51-52)303. 304.  305. 
306.  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (52-53)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414;  (53-54)  459,  460.  461 .  462.  463,  464,  465,  466 
PALUTIS,  C.  (53-54)  103. 104, 107, 108;  (54-55)  209,  210. 
211 .  212,  213,  214,  215,  (55-56)303,  304.  305.  306.  309. 
310. 31 1 .  312.  (56-57)  403,  404, 409, 420.  (57-58)  415,  416. 
417.418.443.444 

PALZ,  E.  (44-45)  102. 106. 108;  (45-46)  102.  203,  205.  207, 

21 1 .  (46-47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314;  (47-48)  402.  408. 

410.412.494 

PARREN,  T.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108,  (57-58)  109 

PARTAN,  R.  (52-53)209, 211,  212,  213,  214,  215.  (53-54) 

210.  303.  304,  309,  310,  311 ,  312;  (54-55)403,  404.  409. 
413.  414.  420,  (55-56)  305,  415.  416.  417,  418,  443.  444 
PASCHKE.  G.  (48-49)  105,  203,  204,  205,  207,  208,  211 
PASIUK,  T.  (38-39)  203,  204,  307,  308,  31 1,312,  313,  314; 
(39-  40)  305,  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407.  408.  409,  410.  41 1 . 
412 

PATRICK,  A.  (49-50)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107. 108;  (50-51) 
209.211.213.215 

PAUL,  E,  (45-46)  102. 105,  (46-47)203,  205.  207. 211,  212, 
(47-  48)  307,  31 1 ,  313;  (48-49)  308,  31 2.  314.  401 ,  407. 
409.  41 1 .  493,  (49-50)  402,  408,  410,  41 2,  494 
PAVUCEK.  R.  (46-47)203,  208,  212;  (47-48)308,  312,  314; 
(48-  49)  401 .  402.  407,  408,  409.  410.411.412.  493.  494 
PEARSON,  E.  (39-40)  101 .  102. 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 
(40-41 )  203,  204,  205,  207.  208. 210,211;  (41-42)  303. 
304. 307. 308.  311 .  312;  (42-43)402.  408,  410. 412 


161 


NT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


PEAHIE.  R.  (52-53)209,  210.  211, 212,  213,  214,  215, 

(53-54)  303,  304, 309,  310. 31 1 ,  31 2,  41 3,  (54-55)  403, 

404,  409.  413.  414.  420:  (55-56)459.  460,  461 .  462.  463. 

464,465,466 

PEDERSEN.  C.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

PEHTA,  W.  (38-39) 201 ,  202.  203.  204.  205.  206. 207, 208, 

312;  (39-40)  303,  304.  307,  308, 31 2,  (40-41 )  401 .  402,  403 

404.407.408,409.410.411.412 

PEREZ,  0.(57-58)103. 107. 109 

PETERSEN.  H.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108 

PETERSON.  P.  (46-47)  102. 105. 106. 107, 108.  (47-48)204 

206,  208,  21 2;  (48-49)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2,  31 3.  31 4;  (49-50 
301 , 302, 407, 408. 409, 410, 411 . 412. 493, 494 
PETERSON,  R.  D.  (48-49)  105, 106,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208 
PETERSON.  R.  J.  (48-49)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108; 
(49-50)  203.  204.  205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  21 2;  (50-51 ) 
303,  304. 305. 306.  307,  308.  31 1 .  312;  (51-52)  403.  404. 
409.  410.  413.  414;  (52-53)415.  416,  453,  454 
PETRASEK,  D.  (46-47)102. 105. 106. 107. 108 
PEHERSON.  G.  (39-40)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 
(40-41)203,  205,  207,  210;  (45-46)  102. 108.  203.  205. 

207.  211.  (46-47)307. 308. 311. 312. 313. 314 
PEHIT.V.  (43-44)  101. 105. 107 

PIERCE.  R.  (53-54)  103. 104. 107, 108, 109, 110.  (54-55) 

209.  210.  211.  212.  213.  214.  215,  216;  (55-56)303,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310.  311 .  312;  (56-57)  403.  404.  409.  420; 

(57-58)415.416.417.418.443.444 

PILAFAS,  N.  (57-58)  104. 108. 215. 303.  304,  413,  414 

PILOLLA,  N.  (44-45)  101 ,  102, 105. 106. 107. 108.  308. 

312.  31 4.  401 ;  (45-46)  Advanced  Perspective;  (46-47)  211, 

(47-48)408.410,412.494 

PINAS.  M.  (40-41)101. 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109 

PINCR.  (54-55)103,107.109 

PINCHOT,  W.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109, 110,  (56-57) 

209,211,213,215;(57-58)214.303 

PIPER,  J.  (38-39)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107. 108 

PIPHER,  W.  (39-40)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107. 108. 109: 

(40-41 )  203.  204.  205.  206.  207,  208,  210,211;  (41-42) 

303.  304.  307.  308.  311.  312:  (42-43)402.  408.  410.  412 

PIPPIN.  P  (46-47)  501 .  502.  505.  506 

PIROFALO.  L.  (53-54)  103. 104. 107. 108, 109. 110;  (54-55) 

209.  210,  211,  212,  213.  214.  215.  216:  (55-56)303. 304. 

305. 306.  309.  310. 311 .  312;  (56-57)  403,  404,  409.  420. 

(57-58)  459.  460.  461 .  462.  463.  464.  465.  466 

PIRTLE.  E.  (45-46)  101 .  105. 107;  (46-47)  203.  204.  205. 

205. 207. 208. 212:  (47-48)  308.  312. 314; (48-49)  401 .  402. 

407. 408,  409. 410. 411 . 412. 493. 494 

PLACEK,  D.  (48-49)101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108:  (49-50) 

203. 204. 205. 206. 207. 208. 211, 212 

PLAUT.  R.  (51-52)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110;  (52-53) 

209.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  215;  (53-54)209.  210.  309.  310. 

311. 312:  (54-55)303.  304.  403.  404.  409.  413,  414.  420; 

(55-56)415.  416.  417. 418. 443, 444 

PLECHATY.  W.  (55-56)  104, 108, 109. 110.  303,  304; 

(56-571209,211  213 

POINTEK,  E.  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203,  205.  206.  207.  208.  312. 

(39-  40)  303. 304.  307.  308.  31 2;  (40-41 )  401 .  402.  403. 

404, 407. 408. 409, 410, 411 . 412 


POINTNER,  N.  (56-57)  103. 104,  107, 108.  (57-58)209.  210. 

211.212,213,214,215 

POLAR,  J.  (49-50)  501 .  502.  505 ,  509,  594 ,  595,  (50-51 ) 

521,591,593,595,599 

POLLAK,  J.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108.  (48-49)203.  204.  205. 

206.  207.  208.  211 .  212;  (49-50)301 ,  302.  305.  306,  307, 

308,  31 1,312.  313. 314,  (50-51 )  403,  404. 409.  410.  413. 

414.  (55-56)  459,  460,  461 , 462.  463, 464. 465,  466 

POLLOCK,  0.(57-58)414 

POORE.  R.  (38-39)201 ,  203. 205,  207 

PORTER,  E.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108;  (53-54)  209,  210, 

211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  (54-55)303,  304,  305,  306,  309, 

310,  31 1 ,  312.  (55-56)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420:  (56-57) 
415,417,418,443,444 

POSTGREGNA.A.  (44-45)101. 102. 105. 106. 107, 108, 

308,  312,  314,  401 ,  (45-46)  407. 409.  410.  Advanced 

Perspective;  (46-47)203.  211.  411 

POWERS,  C.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108.  (48-49)203.  204.  205. 

207.208,211.212 

POWERS,  W.  (44-45)102, 106, 108,(45-46)203,205,207, 

211,  (46-47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2.  31 3.  31 4;  (47-48)  402,  408, 

410.412,494 

POZUCEK,  P.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109: 

(41-42)203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212:  (42-43) 

307.  308.  311 .  312.  313.  314.  (46-47)401 .  402.  408.  410. 

412 

PRANGE,  W.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108:  (53-54)209,  211 . 

213.215 

PRATHER,  F.  (38-39)  203.  204.  307.  308.  31 1 ,  312.  313. 

314.  (39-  40)  305.  401   402,  403,  404,  407,  408,  409,  410. 

411,412 

PREISLER.E.  (47-48)  102. 108 

PRESS,  L.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108.  (50-51 ) 

209.  210.  211 .  212.  213.  214.  215.  216.  (51-52)303.  304. 

305.  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  (52-53)403.  404.  409.  410, 

413.  414;  (53-54)  459.  460.  461 .  462.  463.  464,  465,  466 

PRESSLY,  E.  (41-42)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210, 

212;  (42-43)307. 311 .  313:  (46-47)308.  312.  313,  314; 

(47-48)402,408.410.412.494 

PRICE,  K.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107, 108 

PRINCE,  8.(42-43)101,105,107 

PRUTER,  W.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107;  (46-47)203,  204,  205, 

206,207,208 

PRZYBYLSKI,  L.  (38-39)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108. 

(39-40)  203,  204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 210,  211 ,  (40-41 ) 

303,  304,  307,  308,  311 ,  312:  (41-42)401 ,  402,  403,  404. 

407.408.409,410,411,412 

PUEYO,  F.  (57-58)463,  465,  505,  509,  511 

QUAY,  J.  (47-48)  204,  206,  208,  212:  (48-49)  106,  307.  308. 

31 1 .  31 2.  313.  314.  (49-50)  105.  301 .  302.  407,  408, 409. 
410;  (50-51) 455.  456.  458 

OUILICI,  L.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107. 108, 109, 110:  (56-57) 

209.211,213,215 

QUINTAS.T  (50-51)109 

QUOSS,  0.(47-48)102.106.108 

RAEMER,  R.  (46-47)  102. 105. 106, 107, 108 

RAGETTE,  F.  (55-56)460.  461 .  462,  463.  464.  466.  501 , 

505. 508. 593 


RAISHI.  G.  (46-47)  503,  506,  507,  509,  592 

RAMOS,  A.  (53-54)  501 .  502.  505,  508:  (54-55)  591 ,  599 

RANDALL,  J.  (40-41)204,  208.  (41-42)303,  304,  307,  308, 

311,312;(42-43)402,408,410,412 

RANDOLPH,  C.  (47-48)  102. 106, 108 

RASMUSSEN,  J.  (46-47)  205.  207,  21 1 ;  (47-48)  307,  311,313 

RAY,  J.  (50-51)  209.  210.  21 1.212,  213,  21 4,  216,  (51-52) 

303.  304.  305.  306.  307.  308.  31 1,312,  (52-53)  403,  404. 

409.  410.  413,  414.  (53-54)415.  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 

RAE,  J.  (38-39)  401 ,  402,  407.  408.  409,  410 

RECHT,  D.  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109;  (53-54)  209, 

210,  21 1 ,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (54-55)  303,  305,  306,  309, 
310.  31 1 .  312.  (55-56)210,  403.  404.  409.  413,  414,  420; 
(56-57)211,415,417,443 

REDDY,  J.  (47-48)  102, 106. 108 

REED,  C.  (54-55)  104. 108. 110.  (55-56)  209.  210.211.212 

213,214 

REED.  W.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)204. 

206.  208.  212,  (48-49)  307,  308,  311,  312  ,  313.  314, 

(49-50)  301 ,  302,  407,  408,  409,  410,  41 1,412. 493, 494 

REEVES,  R.  (47-48) 204.  206.  208,  212,  504, 506;  (48-49) 

308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314,  401 ,  402,  507,  509,  510;  (49-50) 
207,407.408,411,412,493,494 

REGAN.T  (40-41)  102, 106, 108. 109;  (41-42)203,  204, 
205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  212;  (46-47)307,  311 .  313.  314, 
401,402,407,409,411 
RENDER,  N.  (57-58)  209 

REIMAN,  J.  (50-51 )  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 1 10;  (51-52) 
209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214.  215.  216,  (52-53)303.  304. 
305.  306.  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (53-54)403.  404.  409.  413. 
414,  420;  (54-55)  405,  406,  415,  416, 417, 418. 443. 444 
REINERT,  K.  (50-51)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110;  (51-52) 
209,  210.  21 1 .  212.  213.  214.  215.  216;  (52-53)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 .  312.  (53-54)403.  404.  409.  413. 
414.  420;  (54-55)459,  460.  461 .  462.  463.  464.  465,  466 
REINHEIMER,  M.  (45-46)  101 ,  105. 107.  (46-47)  203.  204. 
205.  206.  207.  208.  212;  (47-48)  308,  312,  314,  (48-49)401 . 
402, 407, 408. 409. 410. 411 . 412. 493, 494 

REINKE,  L.  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203,  204.  205.  206,  207,  208, 

312,  (39-40)303,  304,  307.  308,  312.  (40-41)401 ,  402.  403. 

404.  407.  408.  409,  410.  41 1 .  412;  (41-42)  501 ,  507 

REIS,  W.  (45-46)  203.  205.  207.  211;  (46-47)  105,  204,  205, 

206,208,212,311 

REISCHAUER,  R.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 

(49-50)  203,  204,  205.  206,  207.  208.  21 1,212,  (50-51)  303 

RENNIE,  R.  (52-53)  103. 104. 107. 108:  (53-54)209,  210, 

211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (54-55)303.  304.  305.  306, 

309,  310,  311 ,  312;  (55-56)  403,  404,  409,  413,  414.  420; 
(56-57)415,  416, 417. 418. 443. 444. 463 

REVER,  0.(56-57)209.  211,  213.  215 

RICE,  B.  (51-52)  103. 104. 107, 108;  (52-53)209,  210, 211 , 

212,  213,  214,  215,  (53-54)303,  309,  310.  311 ,  312:  (54-55) 
403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420;  (55-56)  305,  415,  416,  417, 
418,443.444 

RICHARDSON,  A.  (38-39)  401 .  402. 407.  408.  409.  410 
RICHARDSON,  D.  (52-53)  103. 104, 107, 108. 109, 110. 
(53-54)  209,  210,  21 1 ,  212.  213.  214.  215;  (54-55)  305. 

306.  309.  310.  311 .  312;  (55-56)403.  404,  409,  413,  414, 


420,  (56-57) 415,  416,  417, 418,  443, 444, 463 

RICKEnS,  S.  (46-47)  504.  (47-48)  506.  507.  (48-49)  509, 

521,(49-50)501,502,591,599 

RILEY,  R.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107. 108. 203, 204 

RIMAVICIUS,  A  (53-54)  31 1 ,  312,  403,  404.  409.  413.  414. 

420.  (54-55)303.  304.  305.  306.  405.  406.  416. 417, 418, 

443,  444;  (55-56)  212,  501 ,  502;  (56-57)521 ,  597,  599; 

(57-58)599 

RISSMAN,  H.  (43-44)  101, 105, 107,  203,  205,  207.  211; 

(44-45)  102. 106. 108. 308. 312.  314.  408,  409. 411; 

(45-46)410,412 

RISSMAN,  M.  (40-41)  101 .  102. 105, 106. 107, 108. 109; 

(41-42)203,  204,  205, 206, 207, 208, 210, 212; (42-43) 

307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314,  (43-44)  401 .  407,  409.  411 ; 

(44-45)402.408.410,412 

ROBERTS,  T  (49-50)  105.  (50-51 )  209,  210.  21 1 .  21 2,  21 3, 

214.  215;  (51-52)  303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312; 

(52-53)403,  404,  409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)  415.  416. 

417,418.443.444 

ROBERTSON,  M.  (52-53)  103. 107. 109 

ROBINSON.  B.  (44-45)  102. 106, 108 

ROBINSON,  NANCY  (53-54)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110. 

209.  210.  303.  304;  (54-55)210.  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215, 

216, (55-56)  305,  306, 309, 310, 311,  312;  (56-57) 403, 

404.  409,  410;  (57-58)459.  460.  461 .  462.  463.  464.  465. 

466 

ROBINSON,  NOMENEE  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 

110,  (56-57)  209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214;  (57-58)  212,  303, 

304,305,306.309,310,311,312 

ROCAH,  L.  (51  -52)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593;  (52-53)  591 . 

599 

ROCHE,  E.  (48-49)  501 ,  503, 593,  594 

ROCKOFF,  G.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (47-48)  204, 

206,208,212 

ROCKWELL,  H.  (53-54)209. 210.  211.  212.  213.  214. 215, 

216,  303,  304;  (54-55)305,  306. 309.  310.  311.  312.  413. 

414.  (55-56)403,  404,  409.  415.  416.  420;  (56-57)417.  418. 

443,444 

ROESCH,  P.  (54-55)  501 ,  502,  505,  50J:  (55-56)  521 ,  593, 

599 

ROGERS,  K.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106. 107. 108. 109, 

(41-42)203,  204,  205,  206.  207.  208.  210.  212;  (42-43) 

307.  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314,  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ; 
(44-45)402,408,410,412 

ROSBACK.  R.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (47-48)206. 
212;  (48-49)  307.  308.  31 1.312,  313;  (49-50)  301 ,  302.  314, 
407,  408,  409.  410.  411 .  493.  494;  (50-51)210.  413 
ROSENFELD,  H.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109. 110: 
(51-52)  209.  21 1.213.  215;  (53-54)  209.  210, 21 1.212,  213, 
214, 215,  216,  (54-55)305,  306, 309, 310. 311,  312:  (55-56) 
413,414 

ROSENTHAL,  D.  (55-56)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109:  (56-57) 
209.  210,  21 1,212,  213,  214;  (57-58)  309,  31 1 
ROSIN,  E.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204,  205. 
206.  207.  208,  21 1 ,  21 2;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308.  31 1 .  312.  313,  314;  (50-51 )  403. 404.  409.  410,  413. 
414.(51-52)453.454 

ROSSI,  M.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109. 110;  (51-52) 


209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  (52-53)303,  305,  306, 

307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  (53-54)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420: 

(54-55)405,  406, 415, 416, 417, 418, 443, 444 

ROTH,  L.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107. 108. 109. 110:  (52-53)209. 

211,213.215 

ROTHE,  G.  (54-55)  501 .  505.  (55-56)  502.  508,  521 ,  593, 

(56-57)599 

ROTHSTEIN.  J.  (52-53)  209.  215.  305.  31 1 ,  409,  413 

ROUMBOS,  C.  (44-45)  102. 106, 108,  (45-46)  203  205,  207. 

(46-47)  21 1.212.  (47-48)  31 2.  31 4;  (48-49)  307,  308.  411, 

412.  (49-  50)  301 .  402,  409,  410,  (50-51 )  403,  404,  (51  -52) 

508 

ROZANSKI.H.  (40-41)101,102.105,106,107,108,109 

ROZANSKI,  J.  (46-47)203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 

RUDICH,  R.  (43-44)  101 .  105, 107.  (46-47)  102. 106. 108: 

(47-48)204.206.208,212 

RUECKER.J.(57-58)501.505 

RUEHL,  L.  (49-50)  207,  208,  21 1 ,  (50-51 )  303,  304,  305, 

306,  307,  308,  311.  312;  (51-52)403.  404,  409,  410,  413, 

414 

RUEKBERG,  T.  (42-43)  101 ,  105. 107 

RUOSS,  H.  (39-40)  203.  204.  207.  208,  210,  21 1 

RUTKINS,  S.  (46-47)208.  307,  313,  314;  (47-48)308,  312, 

412:  (48-49)  407,  408,  409,  410,  493 

RYHN,  0.(51-52)501 

SAICHEK.R.  (50-51)  303.  304 

SALZMAN,  A.  (56-57)  418.  502.  597.  (57-58)  501 ,  503.  505. 

506.597 

SALZMAN,  M.  (38-39)  201 ,  202.  203.  204.  205.  206.  207, 

208,  312;  (39-40)303,  304, 307, 308, 312 
SAMPLE,  N.  (45-46)407,409,410 

SAMUELS,  B.  (50-51)215,  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 

110;  (52-53)  209,  210,  21 1,212.  213.  214;  (53-54)  303. 304. 

309.  310.311.312;  (54-55)  403,  404.  409.  413,  414,  420: 

(55-56)415.416,417,418,443,444 

SAMY,  E.  (50-51 )  501 .  502,  505,  509,  593,  594 

SANCHEZ.  R.  (55-56)  209 

SANDERS,  W.  (51-52)  104, 108, 109. 110,  215:  (52-53)209. 

21 1,212,  213,  214,  216;  (53-54)  303,  304,  309,  310,  311, 

312;  (54-55)403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420;  (55-56)305,  415, 

417.443 

SANEM.  R.  (45-46)  101 .  105. 107,  (46-47)  203,  205,  207, 

208 

SANUOO,  C.  (47-48)  502,  508;  (48-49)  521 ,  591 ;  (49-50) 

699, (50-  51 )  699;  (51-52) 699;  (52-53) 699: (53-54) 699 

SARTOR,  L.  (53-54)  103. 104. 107. 108, 109, 110;  (54-55) 

209,  210.  211 .  212.  213.  214. 215.  216;  (55-56)  303. 304, 
305.  306.  309,  310,  311 ,  312:  (56-57)403,  404,  409,  420: 
(57-58)  415,  416,  459,  460.  461 ,  462. 463.  464,  465,  466 
SASSMAN,  J.  (38-39)  201 .  202. 203.  204,  205,  206.  207. 
208,312 

SATERNUS,  M.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110: 

(55-56)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (56-57) 

303,304,305,306,309,310,311,312 

SATO,  M.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107;  (46-47)  203,  204,  205. 206. 

207.  208,  21 1 :  (49-50) 301 .  302.  305. 306.  307.  308.  31 1 . 

312.313.314 

SAUERMAN,  G.  (38-39)203,  204.  307.  308.  31 1 .  312,  313, 


162 


NT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


314:  (39-40)305,  401 ,  402.  403,  404,  407,  408,  409,  410, 

411,412 

SAUERMANN,  H.  (40-41)  101. 102,  105.  106.  107. 108.  109, 

(45-46)  203.  205.  207.  21 1 .  (46-47)  206.  307.  308.  31 1 . 

312.  313,  314.  (47-48)401 .  408.  410.  412.  494 

SAXON.  W.  (51-52)  209.  210, 21 1,212,  213,  214,  215. 

(52-53)305,306,307.308.311,312 

SCHAFFER.  H,  (38-39)  401 ,  402,  407.  409.  (40-41 )  402. 

403  404,407,408.410.411.412 

SCHELLI.W.  (50-51)209.213.  215 

SCHERER,  W.  (38-39)  203,  204.  307. 308.  31 1.312. 313. 

314: (39-  40) 305.  401 ,  402. 403, 404. 407, 408, 409. 410, 

411.412 

SCHILLER,  D.  (41-42)  105.  203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208, 

210,212,(42-43)307,311.313 

SCHILLINGER.T.  (54-55)103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110 

SCHIPPMAN,  E.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105. 106, 107. 108. 

(50-51)209.  210.  21 1.  212,  213,  214,  215,  216.  (51-52) 

303,  304,  305,  306.  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312:  (52-53)  403,  404, 

409,  410,  413,  414:  (53-54)  459.  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464, 

465, 466 

SCHIPPOREIT,  G.  (55-56)209, 210:  211,  212,  213,  214. 

215,  216,  414,  (56-57)303.  305.  309,  311 

SCHLAICH,  B.  (56-57)  214.  501 .  505. 597.  (57-58)  521 .  591 

SCHLEGEL,  J.  (54-55)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110.  (55-56) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216:  (56-57)303,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  311.  312:  (57-56)403.  404.  409.  413. 

414.420 

SCHMIDT.  G.  (55-56)  103. 107,109 

SCHMIDT.  R.  (54-55)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

SCHMOCKER,  E.  (55-56)209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215, 

216.  414:  (56-57)303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,  311 ,  312: 
(57-58)403.404.409.413.420 

SCHNEIDER.  R.  (38-39)  101. 102. 105, 106, 107, 108: 

(39-40)  203. 204,  205,  206,  207,  208.  210,  21 1 :  (40-41) 

303,304,307.308.311,312 

SCHNEPF,  R.  (57-58)  103. 104. 107. 108, 109, 110 

SCHRIEBER.  R.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107. 108, 109, 110 

(57-58)209,  210. 211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216 

SCHREIBER,  S.  (45-46)  102:  (46-47)203,  205,  207,  208, 

308,  311,313,314:  (47-48)  401 ,  407,  409.  41 1 .  494:  (48-49) 

402,408,410,412,493 

SCHUMACHER,  S.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203, 204, 

205,206,207,208,211,212 

SCHUMANN.  A.  (47-48)  106,  206:  (48-49)  203,  204,  205. 

206,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  212,  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311.  312.  313,  314:  (50-51)403,  404.  409,  410,  413, 

414:(51-52)453,454 

SCHUST,  F.  (40-41)  401 ,  402. 403,  404,  407,  408,  409, 410, 

411.412 

SCHWARTZ.  L.  (57-58)  103. 107. 109. 110 

SCHWARTZ,  R.  (53-54)209.  210. 211. 212.  213.  214.  216: 

(55-56)  403.  404. 409. 414,  415, 420;  (56-57)  110,  416, 

417.418,443,444 

SCHWARTZ,  R.  F.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108. 109 

SCHWEBL,  J.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107. 108, 109, 110;  (51-52) 

209,  210. 211, 212, 213,214, 215;  (52-53)  303,  305, 307, 

311 


scon,  G.  (38-39)401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409.  410,  (40-41) 

501.502 

scon,  K.  (45-46)101.105.107 

scon,  R.  (55-56)  103, 107. 109, 209,  413 

SCROPOS,T.  (56-57)404 

SEEGERS,G.  (47-48)313 

SEGEL,  S.  (48-49)  101 .  102.  105.  107.  108.  205:  (49-50) 

203.  204.  206.  207.  208.  211.212.  (50-51 )  303.  304.  305. 

306.  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (51-52)403.  404.  409,  410,  413. 
414;  (52-53)455,  456,  458 

SEIDEL,  F.  (50-51 )  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593,  594,  (51  -52) 

591,599,(52-53)599 

SEILS,  W.  (38-39)  101 ,  105,  107,  202,  203,  204, 205, 206, 

207,208,312 

SEKLEMIAN.H.  (42-43)101,102,107,106,(43-44)203. 

207.211:(44-45)212 

SERFATY,  V.  (55-56)  209,  210,  211,212,213,  214,  215,  216: 

(56-  57)  303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,311.312 

SEnLACE,  W.  (50-51 )  103.  104. 107.  108.  109. 110 

SEVEHUD.R.  (45-46)  503 

SEVILLA,  G.  (50-51 )  505.  508,  509,  51 1 :  (51  -52)  51 2,  591 , 

599 

SEVIN,  E.  (49-50)  101,  102,  105. 106.  107.  108:  (50-51) 

209,210.211.212.213.214.215,216.(51-52)303.305, 

307,  31 1,  (56-57)304,  305.  310.  312.  463.  465,  (57-58)  403. 
404.409.413.414.420 

SHAIKH,  M.  (54-55)  464.  501 .  505,  508,  (55-56)  463,  51 1 , 

512 

SHANK,  R,  (40-41)  203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208.  210.  211. 

(41-42)  303,  304.  307.  308.  31 1,312;  (42-43)  402.  408. 

410,412 

SHARP,  I.  (40-41)  102, 106, 108, 109 

SHARPE,  0.  (56-57)  209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216; 

(57-  58)  303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,311,312 

SHAVER,  P.  (50-51)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  303. 

304;  (51-52)212.  305.  306. 307. 308. 311 . 312 

SHAW.  C.  (52-53)103.107.109 

SHEFTE,  D.  (45-46)  101. 102, 107.  203,  205,  207,  211, 

(46-47)307,308,311,312,313,314 

SHEMONSKY,  R.  (46-47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2,  31 3,  314, 

(47-48)402,408,410.412.494 

SHERLOCK,  T.  (40-41)203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208.  210. 

211;(41-42)303.307.311 

SHERMAN.J.  (51-52)103. 104. 107. 108. 109.110,(52-53) 

209.211.213.215 

SHERMANSKY,  R.  (45-46)  102. 108.  203.  205.  207.  211 

SHIELDS,  H.  (53-54)  103. 104. 107. 108,  109. 110:  (54-55) 

209.  210.  211.  212.  213.  214.  215.  216;  (55-56)  303.  304, 

305.  306.  309.  310.  31 1,312:  (56-57)  403,  404,  409,  420; 

(57-58)415,416,417,418,443,444 

SHOGREN,  R.  (54-55)  103, 104. 107. 108, 109, 110;  (55-56) 

209.  210.  211,  212,  213, 214,  215, 216;  (56-57)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  311, 312;  (57-58)403.  404,  409.  413, 

414.420 

SHULMAN,  H.  (55-56)  103. 107.  109 

SHUnER.  R.  (53-54)  103. 104. 107. 108.  109. 110.  209. 

210:  (54-  55)209. 210, 211, 212, 213, 214.  215, 216: 

(55-56)  303.  304.  305,  306,  309,  310,  311 .  312;  (56-57) 


403,  404,  409,  420,  (57-58)  415,  416  417.  418.  443.  444 

SHWARTZ,  R.  (54-55)  303  304.  305.  306,  309,  310,  312, 

413 

SICKLER,  D.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106.  107,  108.  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1 ,  212,  (50-51 )  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308.  311 .  312.  (51-52)403.  404.  409.  410. 

413,414,(52-53)415,416.453,454 

SIEGLE.R.  (46-49)  101,  102,  105,  106,  107,  108.(49-50) 

203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211,  212.  (50-51 )  303.  304, 

305,  306.  307.  308.  31 1,312:  (51-52)  403,  404,  409,  410, 
413,  414;  (52-53)415,  416,  453,  454 

SIGFUSSON,  B.  (45-46)  101,  105, 107 

SIMON,  J.  (47-48)  102.  106.  106.  (48-49)  203.  204.  205 

207.  208.  21 1,212:  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307,  308, 

311,312,313,314,(50-51)211,403,404,409,410,413. 

414 

SIMON,  M,  (50-51)  103.  104.  107,  108,  109,  110,  (51-52) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212.  213.  214.  215.  (52-53)  303.  305,  306, 

307,  308,  31 1,312,  (53-54)  403,  404,  409,  413,  416,  420, 

(54-55)  459.  460.  461 .  452.  463.  464.  465.  466 

SITKIEWICZ,  0.  (53-54)  103. 104.  107.  108.  109, 110. 

(54-55)  209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (55-56) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,  31 1.312;  (56-57)  403,  404, 

409,  420,  (57-58)415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 

SKOGLUND,  C.  (39-40)  101 ,  102, 105,  106,  107,  108,  109 

SKOKAK.H.  (55-56)303 

SLEZAK.N.  (50-51)103,  107,216 

SMALL,  G,  (46-47)  501 ,  502.  503.  506.  591 

SMALL,  S.  (49-50)  102. 106,  107, 108,  203,  204,  205; 

(50-51)211,212,213,214,216,(51-52)303,304,305, 

306,  307,  308,  311,  312,  (54-55)403,  404,  409.  413.  414. 
420,  (55-56)  459.  460.  461 ,  462.  463.  464.  465.  466 
SMIDCHENS,  I.  (55-56)209.  210.  211.  212.  213,  214,  215, 
216,414,  (56-57)  303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,  31 1 ,  312. 
(57-58)403,404,409,413,416.420 

SMITH,  L.  (54-55)209.  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  (55-56) 
303,  304,  305.  306.  309.  310.  311,  312;  (56-57)  403,  404, 
409,  420:  (57-58)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463.  464,  465,  466 
SMITH,  R.  (49-50)  101 ,  102,  105, 106, 107,  108;  (50-51) 
209,  210,  211,  212,  213.  214,  215.  216:  (51-52)303.  304. 
305.  306.  307.  308.  311 .  312;  (52-53)403.  404.  409.  410. 
413,  414;  (53-54)459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 
SMITH,  T.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106,  107,  108,  109, 
(41-42)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208.  210.  212,  (42-43) 

307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  31 3,  314;  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ; 
(44-45)402,408,410,412 

SMITH,  W.  (55-56)  103. 104, 107, 108. 109. 110:  (56-57) 

209,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216.(57-58)303.  304,  305. 

306.309.310.311.312 

SMOLIK,  J.  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108. 109. 110 

SNEAD,  C,  (57-58)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110 

SOLIS.  C,  (54-55)  464,  505,  508,  509,  (55-56)  461 ,  463, 

465,  466,  51 1 ,  51 2,  591 ;  (56-57)  599 

SOLLER,  J.  (57-58)  103. 104, 107. 108. 109. 1 10 

SOLNER,  E.  (52-53)  103.  104. 107. 108. 109.  1 10 

SOMERS,  J.  (44-45)  101 ,  102. 105, 106,  107,  108,  (45-46) 

203,  205.  207,  21 1 ;  (46-47)  307,  308,  311,312,313,314, 

(47-48)402,408,410,412.494 


SOMMER,  D.  (55-56)  501 .  502,  505.  508.  593 

SOMPOLSKI,  R.  (48-49)  101 ,  102,  105,  106,  107,  108. 

(49-50)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  211 ,  212.  (50-51) 

303.  304.  305.  306.  307.  308.  311.  312.  (51-52)403.  404. 

409.  410.  413,  414:  (52-53)  415,  453,  454 

SONNINO.  C.  (48-49)101,  102,  105,  106,  107,  108,  (49-50) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1,  212,  (51-52)  303,  304. 

305.  306.  307.  308.  31 1.312.  (52-53)  403.  404.  409.  410. 

413.  414.  (53-54)  404.  414,  420,  (54-55)  405,  406,  415,  416, 

417,418,443,444 

SOTO,  A.  (51-52) 103. 104.  107,  108,  110,  215 

SPERLING,  C  (43-44)  203,  205,  207.  (44-45)  102,  105,  106, 

108 

SPERO.  J.  (54-55)103,107 

SPEYER.  A.  (48-49)  591 ,  (49-50)  505 

SPEYER.  J.  (38-39)407.406.410 

SPIES.  M.  (39-40)  203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  211; 

(40-41 )  303,  304,  307,  308,  311,312;  (41-42)  401 ,  402, 

403. 404  407. 408, 409, 410, 411, 412 

SPIRA,  B.  (53-54)  103,  104, 107, 108, 109,  110,  (54-55) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (55-56)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  311.  312.  (56-57)403.  404.  409.  414. 

420:  (57-58)  413.  414.  459.  460.  461 .  462.  463.  464.  465. 

466 

SPITZ.  W.  (38-39)  102,  106,  108,  (39-40)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208.  210.  21 1:  (40-41)  303,  304,  307,  308,  311 , 
312.  (41-42)401.  402,  403,  404,  407,  406,  409,  410,  411 , 
412.(42-43)501 

STAEHLE,  W,  (50-51)  103, 104,  107,  108. 109.  110,  (51-52) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  (52-53)  210,  303,  304, 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 .  312;  (56-57)305.  306.  309.  310, 

311.  312;  (57-58)214,  403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420 

STANFIELD,  S.  (45-46)  101 ,  105,  107;  (46-47)  203,  204, 

205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1 :  (47-48)  308,  312,  31 4,  (48-49)  401 , 

402.  407.  408. 409. 410. 411. 412. 493. 494 

STANFIELD,  S.  (43-44)  307.  311.  312.  313.  314;  (44-45) 

203,  205,  206,  208,  211 ,  212.  401 .  402.  408.  410;  (46-47) 

501,502,505,508 

STAROSTOVIC,E.(51-52)103,104,107,108,109,  110; 

(52-53)  209,  210,  211 .  212.  213.  214,  215.  216:  (55-56) 

303.  304.  305.  306.  309.  310.  31 1 .  312.  (56-57)  403,  404, 

409,  414,  463,  464,  420,  (57-58)  413,  459.  460.  461 .  462. 

465.466 

STATHOPULOS,  J.  (53-54)  209.  211.213 

STAUBER,  R.  (45-46)  102. 108.  203.  205.  207.  211;  (46-47) 

307.  308.  311.  312.  313.  314;  (47-48)402,  408,  410,  412, 

494 

STAVRIOIS.T,  (54-55)505 

STEARNS,  D.  (45-46)  101 ,  102. 105,  107.  203.  205.  207. 

211.  (46-  47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312,  313.  314;  (47-48)  402, 

408,410,412,494 

STEED,  T.  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107;  46-47)  203,  204,  205,  206, 

207,  208,  21 1;  (47-48)  308,  312,  314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402,  407, 
408,409,410,411,412,493,494 

STEINBERG,  G.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106.  107. 108.  109 
STEINBRENNER,  L.  (48-49)  101. 102. 105,  106.  107.  108, 
(49-50)  203,  204,  205, 206, 207, 208, 211,212 
STEINER.S.  (45-46)101,105 


STEINWEG,  G,  (38-39)201 ,  202.  203.  204.  205.  206.  207. 

208.  31 2.  (39-40)  303.  304.  307.  308.  312.  (40-41 )  401 .  402, 

403.404,407,408,409,410,411.412 

STEVENS,  D.  (57-58)  103, 104,  107,  108,  109,  110 

STEVENS,  R.  (51-52)  103,  104, 107, 108,  109,  110,  (52-53) 

209,210,211,212,213,214,215.216 

STEWART,  H 

(50-51)103,104.107,  108,109,110,(51-52)209,210, 

211 ,  212,  213,  214.  215,  (52-53)209.  303,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  31 1,312,  (53-54)  403.  404.  409,  413.  414.  420.  (54-55) 

415.416.417.418.443.444 

STIFTER,  C.  (54-55)  103.  104. 107. 108.  109.  110,  (55-56) 

209,210.211,212,213,214,215,216,413,414,(56-57) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,  311,  312,  (57-58)  403,  404, 

409,420,463.464.465.466 

STINCIi;,  L.  (44-45)  101.  105.  107.  (45-46)203.  205.  207 

STOGINSKI.J. (48-49)101. 105. 107 

STOLTIE,  8.(52-53)  103.  107.109 

STORZ,  G.  (38-39)  101 .  102.  105.  106.  107.  108.  (39-40) 

203.  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  21 1,  (40-41)  303,  304, 

307,  308.  31 1,312.  (41-42)  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407,  408, 
409,410.411,412.(42-43)501,502 

STOVER.  H.  (55-56)  103,  104,  107, 108 

STOWELL,  T,  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203,  204.  205,  206,  207, 

208,  312,  (39-40)  303,  304,  307.  308,  312;  (40-41)  401 ,  402, 

403,  404,  407, 408, 409, 410, 411, 412 

STRAKA.E.  (47-48)  102,  106,  108:  (46-49)  203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  211.  212:  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314.  (50-51)403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414,(51-52)453,454 

STREET.  R.  (38-39)  204,  307,  308,  312,  314,  401 ,  402 

STROMBEHGER,  H.  (57-58)  103, 107, 109 

STROMSLAND,  K.  (57-58)  103,  104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

STRUCK,  G.  (54-55)  209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216, 

413;  (55-56)  303,  304,  305.  306,  309,  310,  31 1,312,  (56-57) 

110,  403,  404.  409.  420.  (57-58)415.  416.  417.  418.  443, 

444 

STUBSJEON.  H.  (51  -52)  501 .  502.  505.  509.  593.  (52-53) 

591.599,(53-54)599 

STUDNICKA,  J.  (49-50)  101. 102. 105, 106, 107, 108, 

(50-51 )  209,  210,  21 1,212,  213,  214,  215,  216:  (51-52) 

303.  304. 305. 306. 307. 308. 311.312 

STUDTMANN,  P.  (52-53)  103,  107.  109 

STUTZMAN,  J.  (49-50)  101 .  102.  105.  106. 107,  108; 

(50-51 )  209,  211 .  213.  215,  (51-52)209.  210.  21 1,212, 

213.214,215,216 

SUDARSKY,  E.  (48-49)  503.  505,  599:  (49-50)  502,  509, 

510,521,591,594,595,(50-51)599 

SUGDEN,  J.  (45-46)  106,  (46-47)  102, 107,  108,  205; 

(47-48)  204,  208,  212,  (48-49)  307,  308.  31 1 ,  31 2.  313,  31 4; 

(49-50)  301 .  302.  407.  408.  409.  410.  41 1.412.  493.  494. 

(50-51 )  501 .  502.  505.  51 1 ,  593,  594;  (51-52)  591 ,  599 

SUMMERS,  G.  (49-50)  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  594,  595; 

(50-51)591,593,595,599 

SUSMAN,  B.  (42-43)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

SVEC,  fl.  (50-51)  103.  104. 107.  108.  109.  110:  (51-52)209. 

210,211,212.213.214.215 

SVINICKI,  E.  (45-46)  101.  102. 105. 107.  203.  205.  207, 


163 


IIT      ARCHITECTURE      STUDENTS 


211 ;  (46-  47)  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313.  314;  (47-48)  402, 

406,410,412,494 

SWAN.D.  (57-58)104,108, 110 

SWAN,  N.  (41-42)  501,  503 

SWANN.  J.  (47-48)  204,  208,  313;  (48-49)  307,  308,  31 1 , 

312,  313,  314,  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  407,  408,  409,  410,  41 1 , 

493,  494 

SWANSON,  R.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)203,  204,  205, 

206. 207,  208,  211,  212;  (49-50)301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 

308.  31 1 ,  31 2,  313,  31 4;  (50-51 )  403,  404,  409,  410,413, 

414;  (51-52)  453,  454 

SWART,  E.  (45-46)  101, 105,  107 

SWEARINGEN.  G.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110; 

(51-52)209,210,211,212,213,214,215 

SWENSON,  A.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  209, 

210,  303,  304;  (56-57)211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  464; 

(57-58)305,306,309,310,311,312 

SWETMAN,  H.  (47-48)  106, 108,  206;  (48-49)  203,  205,  207, 

211 

SZKIRPAN.  E,  (53-54)  103, 104,  107, 108,  109, 110,  209 

TAKAYAMA.  M.  (57-58)  501 ,  502,  505,  506,  597 

TAKEUCHI,  A.  (49-50)101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (50-51) 

209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (51-52)303,  304. 

305,  306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (52-53)  403,  404,  409, 410, 

413,  414;  (53-54)415,  416,  417,  418.  443,  444;  (56-57)501, 

502,  509,  510,  597;  (57-58)591 

TALLET,  A.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  205,  207,  21 1 

TAMMINGA,  D.  (42-43)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108; 

(46-47)203,  204,  206,  207,  208,  211,  (47-48)  308,  312,  314, 

(48-49)401 ,  402,  407,  408,  409,  410,  411,  412,  493,  494; 

(49-50)  501 ,  502,  509,  51 0,  594,  595;  (50-51 )  521 ,  522, 

591,593,594,595 

TAN,  M.  (42-43)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (43-44)203, 

205,  207,  211 ,  307,  311 ,  313;  (44-45)204,  206,  208,  212, 

401,412;(45-46)408,410,501 

TAPLEY.  R.  (57-58)103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

TEMPLETON.  P.  (51-52)  109, 110;  (52-53)  103, 104, 107, 

108,215,216 

TERMAN.  M.  (45-46)  102, 106, 108;  (46-47)203,  204,  205, 

206,207,208,211 

TERHOVrTS,E.(56-57)103, 104,107,108, 109, 110; 

(57-58)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216 

TERZIS,  N.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (56-57) 

209,211.213,215 

THOMAS,  P.  (49-50)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  203; 

(50-51)209,  210, 211 ,  212, 213, 214, 215, 216; (51-52) 

303,  304,  305,  306, 307, 308,  311 .  312;  (52-53, 403.  404. 

409.  410.  413,  414;  (53-54)459,  460. 461,  462,  463,  464, 

465,466 

THOMASON,  G.  (48-49)  101 ,  102. 105, 106, 107. 108; 

(49-50)  203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208. 21 1 .  21 2;  (50-51 ) 

303.  304.  305.  306.  307.  308.  31 1.312;  (51-52)  403.  404, 

409,  410,  41 3,  414;  (52-53)  41 5,  453,  454 

THOMPSON,  0,  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

THRANE,  P.  (56-57)209,  210,  211, 212,  213,  214,  215,  216; 

(57-  58)  303,  304, 305, 306, 309, 310, 311 ,  312 

TOBEH,  R.  (56-57)209,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  303,  304 

TODD.  J.  (40-41)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108. 109;  (41-42) 


203.  204.  205.  206.  207.  208.  210.  212.  (42-43)  307.  308, 

31 1 ,  312,  313,  314;  (43-44)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 ;  (44-45)  402, 

408,410,412 

TOM,  R,  (49-50)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  (50-51 )  209, 

210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (51-52)  303,  304,  305, 

306,  307,  308,  31 1,312,  (52-53)  403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 

414,  (53-54)  459,  460,  461 ,  462,  463,  464,  465,  466 

TORGERSEN,  T.  (48-49)  105, 106,  203,  204,  211,  212 

TOSI,  0.(42-43)101,107 

TRAUTH,  F,  (41-42)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (42-43) 

203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  (46-47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312, 

313,  314;  (47-48)402,  408,  410,  412,  494 

TREITLER,  F,  (43-44)203,  205,  207,  211;  (44-45)  101 ,  102, 

105, 106,  107,  108,  308,  312,  314;  (45-46)  407,  409,  410 

TSHIELDS,  I.  (48-49)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (49-50) 

203,  204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 211, 212 

TUCKER,  R.  (56-57)  103. 104. 107. 108, 109, 1 10;  (57-58) 

209,210,413,414,465,466 

TULLOS,  E.  (52-53)  1 03, 1 04, 1 07, 1 08, 1 09,  (53-54)  209, 

211,213 

TULLY.A.  (52-53)103,104,107, 108, 109, 110;  (53-54) 

209,211,213,215 

TURCK,  0.  (45-46)  203,  205,  207, 21 1;  (46-47)  307,  308, 

311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (47-48)402,  408,  410,  412,  494;  (48-49) 

501 ,  502,  594;  (54-55)  508,  521 ;  (55-56)  51 1 ,  522,  597; 

(56-57)512 

TURLEY,J.(50-51)103.104. 107.108. 109. 110;  (51-52) 

209,  210,  21 1 ,  212,  213.  214.  215.  216;  (52-53)  303.  304. 

305.  306.  307,  308,  311 ,  312;  (53-54)  403,  404,  409,  413, 
414,  420;  (54-55)405,  406,  415,  416,  417,  418,  443,  444 
TVRDIK,  R.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108;  (57-58)  209,  210, 
211,212,213,214,215 

TWERDY,  F.  (55-56)306.  310.  312 

ULBMAN,  R.  (45-46)203.  205.  207.  211 

URBAIN,  L.  (38-39)204. 401 , 402, 407,  408,  409,  410 

URBASZEWSKI,  J.  (55-56)103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110; 

(56-57)  209.  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216.  (57-58) 

303.304.305.306.309.310.311.312 

UTHE,  R.  (57-58)  103. 104. 107. 108. 109. 110 

UTSUNOMIYA,  S.  (49-50)  101 .  102. 105. 106. 107, 108; 

(50-51 )  209,  210,  21 1,212, 213,  214,  215;  (51-52)  305, 

306,  307,  308,  31 1,312;  (52-53)  403,  404,  409,  410,  413, 
414;  (53-54)415,  416.  417.  418.  443,  444 

VAGALE,  R.  (51-52)  306,  312,  508,  594;  (52-53)  209,  210, 

311,413,414,458,511,591,594 

VANDERMEER,  W,  (45-46)  101 ,  105, 107;  (46-47)  203, 204, 

205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1 ;  (47-48)  308,  312,31 4;  (48-49)  401 , 

402,  407, 408, 409, 410, 411, 412, 493, 494 

VANDUYS.R,  (48-49)  106,  205 

VEGAS,  M,  (46-47)  203,  205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1 ;  (47-48) 

308,  312,  314;  (48-49)401 ,  402, 407,  408, 409,  410,  41 1 , 

412,493,494 

VENTURA,  A,  (54-55)  310,  312;  (55-56)  305,  409,  463,  501 , 

593.  594,  (56-57)  501 .  502,  505,  508,  597;  (57-58)  51 1 ,  521 , 

599. 600 

VEnE,  C.  (38-39)  202,  203, 208, 312 

VIACIULIS,  A.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (52-53) 

209,211.213,215 


VIKS,  J.  (52-53)  501 ,  (53-54)  501 .  502.  505.  508;  (54-55) 

591.  599;  (55-56)511.  512 

VILLAQUIRAN.  S.  (51-52)209,  210, 211 ,  212,  213,  214; 

(52-53)  303,  304,  305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1,312;  (53-54) 

403,  404,  409,  413,  414,  420;  (54-55)  405,  406,  415,  416, 

417,418,443,444 

VINCI,  J,  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (56-57)  209, 

210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  (57-58)303,  304.  305. 

306,309.310,311.312 

VODICKA,  E.  (39-40)  101 ,  102. 105. 106. 107. 108. 109 

VON  BROEMBSEN,  M.  (56-57)209,  210,  211 ,  212.  213,  214, 

215,  216,  303,  304,  309,  310;  (57-58)403,  404,  409,  413, 

414,420 

VON  MUELLER,  E,  (39-40)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108,  109 

VON  SEIDLEIN,  P.  (51-52)  306,  501 ,  502,  505,  509,  593, 

VOSS,J,  (50-51)103, 107,109 

WAGECK,  0.(47-48)206,208,212 

WAGNER,  F.  (57-58)  501 ,  502,  505,  506 

WAGNER,  T,  (57-58)  210,  212,  214, 216 

WAGNER,  W.  (38-39)402,  407,  408.  409.  410 

WALKER,  R.  (56-57)  466,  501 ,  502,  505,  508.  597;  (57-58) 

511,599 

WARD,  H,  (46-47)  102, 106, 108,  203,  205,  207,  211; 

(47-48)  307,  31 1 ,  313;  (48-49)  308, 312.31 4.  401 ,  407. 

409.  41 1 .  493;  (49-50)  402.  408,  410,  412.  494 

WARD,  R.  (51-52)  501 

WASIK,  G.  (49-50)  101. 102. 105. 106, 107, 108,  (50-51) 

209.  210.  211 .  212. 213.  214, 215, 216;  (51-52)  303.  304. 

305.306.307,308,311.312 

WASON.  D,  (46-47)  503.  504,  505,  506;  (48-49)  501 ,  509; 

(49-50)591,  599;  (50-51)599 

WASSON,  R.  (46-47)  102, 106, 108,  203,  204,  205,  207, 

211;  (47-  48)  307,  311,31 3;  (48-49)  308,  31 2,  31 4,  401 , 

407,  409,  41 1 ,  493;  (49-50)  402,  408,  410,  41 2,  494 

WEBER,  E.  (47-48)204,  206,  208,  212;  (48-49)309,  313 

WEESE,  J.  (39-40)  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  21 1 ; 

(40-41 )  303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312;  (46-47)  401 ,  402, 

407,409,411 

WAGECK,  0.  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (48-49)307. 

308,  31 1 ,  312,  313,  314.  (49-50)  204,  301 ,  302,  31 1 ,  409, 

410,411,412;  (50-51 )  403,  404,  493,  494 

WEIL,  N.  (42-43)  101 , 1 05, 107;  (43-44)  203,  205,  207,  21 1 ; 

(44-45)101,102,107,108 

WEILGUS,  R.  (52-53)  209,  210.  211 ,  212,  213.  214. 215, 

216 

WEINBERGER,  J.  (47-48)  102. 106. 108;  (48-49)  207. 21 1 

WEINER,  S.  (46-47)203,  205,  207, 211;  (47-48)307,  311, 

313;  (48-49)  308,  312,31 4. 401 ,  407, 409, 41 1 ,  493;  (49-50) 

402,408,410,412,494 

WEISS,  J.  (47-48)  204.  208,  31 3;  (48-49)  307,  308,  31 1 , 

312,  313,  412;  (49-50)301,  302,  407,  408,  409,  410,  411 , 

493. 494 

WENDELL,  M,  (53-54)  103. 104, 107, 108, 109, 110;  (54-55) 

209,  210,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216;  (55-56)303, 304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  31 1,312;  (56-57)  403,  404,  409,  420, 

(57-58)415, 416,  417, 418,  443, 444 

WENDELL,  W,  (40-41)  205 

WENDT,  £.(54-55)104, 108 


WENGERHOFF,  A,  (45-46)  203,  205,  207,  21 1 ;  (46-47)  102, 

1 08,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2,  31 3,  31 4,  (47-48)  401 ,  407,  409,  41 1 , 

494;  (48-49)  105, 106,  402,  408,  410,  412,  493,  494 

WEST,  B.  (56-57)  501 ,  502,  505,  508,  597 

WEST,  0.(41-42)  501,  502,  503,  504 

WETTERMAN,T.  (55-56)103, 104, 107, 108;  (56-57)209, 

210,  21 1,212,  213,  214,  215;  (57-58)  303,  304,  305,  306, 
309,310,311,312 

WIELGUS,  R.  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108. 109, 110;  (53-54) 

303,  304,  309,  310,  311 ,  312;  (54-55)403,  404,  409, 413. 

414.  420;  (55-56)415.  416. 417,  418,  443,  444 

WIESINGER,  F,  (49-50)  408.  410.  494 

WIESNER.E.  (49-50)501.  505.  594 

WILBUR,  F.  (46-47)  204. 206.  207. 212;  (47-48)  308.  312. 

314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402. 407. 408. 409. 410. 41 1 .  412.  493. 

494 

WILD,  F.  (46-47)  102. 105. 106. 107, 108 

WILDGRUBE,  C,  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110; 

(54-55)209,  210, 211 , 212, 213, 214, 215, 216; (55-56) 

303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310,  31 1 ,  312;  (56-57)  465 

WILKINSON,  J.  (38-39)  401 ,  407,  408,  409,  410 

WILKINSON, P.(56-57)211, 213 

WILLIAMS,  0.  (54-55)  501 ,  502.  505.  508;  (55-56)  521 .  522. 

594 

WILLIAMS,  R.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108,  (57-58)  209,  210, 

211,212,213,214,215 

WILSON,  G.  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108;  (54-55)  209, 210, 

21 1 ,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (55-56)  209,  303,  304,  305,  306, 
309,  310,  31 1 ,  312,  (56-57)  403,  404, 409.  420;  (57-58)  415. 
416.417,418.443.444 

WINTERGREEN,  R.  (56-57)  1 10;  (57-58)  103, 104, 107, 108, 

109 

WISHNEW,  W.  (55-56)  103, 104, 107, 109 

WOEHRL,  C.  (38-39)  102, 106, 108;  (39-40)203,  204,  205, 

206,  207,  208,  210,  21 1 ,  (40-41 )  303,  304,  307,  308,  31 1 , 

312;  (41-42)  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407, 408,  409,  410,  411 , 

412 

WOLFE,  R.  (52-53)  103. 104, 107, 108, 110;  (53-54)209, 

210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214.  (54-55)305.  306.  309.  310.  312; 

(55-56)210.  403.  404.  409.  413.  414.  420;  (56-57)  416. 

417.418.443.444.463 

WOMELSOORF,  W.  (50-51 )  501 .  502,  505,  509, 593,  594; 

(51-52)521,599 

WONG,  Y.  (48-49)  503,  505,  599;  (49-50)  502,  509,  510, 

591 ,  593, 594;  (50-51)  521 ,  593, 594, 599 

WORLEY,  0,  (39-40)  307, 409, 410, 501 ,  502;  (40-41 )  501 , 

502 

WOTKOWSKY,  V.  (42-43)  101, 105, 107 

WRIGHT,  C.  (39-40)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109; 

(40-41)  203,  204, 205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  211 ;  (41-42) 

307,  31 1 ;  (46-47)  307,  308,  31 1 ,  31 2,  313,  31 4 

WRIGHT,  E.  (41-42)  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407,  408,  409,  410, 

411,412 

WROBEL,  N,  (54-55)103, 104, 107, 108, 109 

WROBLESKI.D.  (49-50)101,102, 105,106,107, 108; 

(50-51)209,  210,  211. 212, 213. 214. 215. 216; (51-52) 

303.  304.  305,  306,  307,  308,  31 1 ,  312;  (52-53)  403,  404, 

409,  410,  413,  414;  (53-54)415,  416.  417.  418,  443.  444 


YAMAMOTO.T.  (54-55)  103. 104. 107, 108, 109, 110,  303, 

304,  (55-56)209,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216,  414; 
(56-57)  305,  306,  309,  310,  31 1,312.  (57-58)  403,  404, 
409,413,416,420 

YANAGI,  H.  (42-43)  312,  401 ,  408,  410 

YOHANAN,  J.  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10;  (54-55) 

209,  210,  21 1 ,  212,  213,  214, 215,  216;  (55-56)  303,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  311 ,  312;  (56-57)  403,  404,  409,  420; 
(57-58)415,416,417,418,443,444 

YOSHIOA,  E,  (45-46)  203,  205,  207,  21 1 ;  (46-47)  307,  308, 
311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (47-48)402,  408,  410,  412,  494 
YOST,  H.  (47-48)  102, 106, 108;  (48-49)  203,  204,  205, 206, 
207,  208,  21 1 ,  21 2;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305,  306,  307, 308, 
311,312,313,314;  (50-51 )  403,  404, 409,  410,  413, 414; 
(51-52)455,456,458 

YOUNG,  A.  (48-49)  101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108 
YOUNG,  D.  (46-47)  102. 106. 108.  203.  205.  207,  211; 
(47-48)  307,  31 1 ,  31 3;  (48-49)  308,  312,  31 4,  401 ,  407, 

409,  41 1 ,  493;  (49-50)  402,  408,  410,  412,  494 
YOUNG,  M.  (38-39)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108.  (39-40) 
203.  204.  205.  206.  207,  208.  210.  21 1 ;  (40-41 )  303.  304. 
307.  308,  31 1 .  31 2;  (41-42)  401 ,  402,  403,  404,  407,  408, 
409,410,411,412 

YUH,  N.  (57-58)  501 ,  502,  505,  506,  597 

YUKAWA,  M.  (52-53)  501,  502 

ZABLOTNY,  R,  (53-54)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110 

ZAGULA,  T,  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)  204, 

206,  208,  212;  (48-49)  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (49-50) 
301 , 402, 407, 408, 409, 410, 41 1,412,  493, 494 
ZAJCHOWSKI,  J,  (47-48)  102, 106, 108,  204;  (48-49)  105, 
203,  205,  206,  207,  208,  21 1,212;  (49-50)  301 ,  302,  305, 

306,  307,  308,  311 ,  312,  313,  314;  (50-51 )  403,  404, 409, 

410,  413,  414;  (51-52)453,  454 
ZAJICEK,B.  (44-45)  102, 106, 108 

ZEITLIN,  P,  (51-52)  103, 104, 107, 108;  (52-53)  209, 210, 

211,  212,  213,  214,  215;  (53-54)  303,  304,  309,  310,  311, 

312;  (54-55)403,  404,  409,  413,  414, 420;  (55-56)459,  460, 

462,463,464,465,466 

ZEPEDA,  R.  (45-46)  101 ,  105;  (46-47)203, 204. 205. 206. 

207,  208, 21 1, (47-48)  308, 312, 314;  (48-49)  401 ,  402, 407, 
408,409,410,411,412,493,494 

ZEPP,  A.  (56-57)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 110,  303,  306; 

(57-58)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213,  214,  215,  216 

ZERNING,  J.  (55-56)  209;  (56-57) 463 

ZIEBELMAN,  0.  (45-46)  101 ,  105. 107.  (46-47)  203.  205, 

207,208 

ZIELINSKI,  P.  (55-56)  108,  (56-57)209,  210,  211 ,  212,  213, 

214,  215;  (57-58)303,  304,  305,  306,  309,  310, 311, 312 

ZILLMER,  C,  (48-49)  102. 106. 108;  (49-50)203.  204,  205, 

206,207,208,211,212 

ZISOOK,  E,  (46-47)  102, 105, 106, 107, 108;  (47-48)204, 

206,  208,  212;  (48-49)307,  308. 311 .  312.  313.  314;  (49-50) 

301 .  302.  407.  408.  409.  410.  411 .  412,  493,  494,  (50-51 ) 

501,  502,  509,  511,  593,  594;  (51-52)591,  593,  599 

ZIVEN.  S.  (38-39)  201 ,  202,  203,  204,  205,  206,  207,  208, 

312 

ZOERN,  J.  (41-42)  101 ,  102, 105, 106, 107, 108 

ZUBKUS,  S.  (50-51)  103, 104, 107, 108, 109, 1 10 


164 


SOLVED      PROBLEMS:      A      DEMAND     ON     OUR     BUILDING     METHODS 


A  lecture  at  the  public  convention  of  the  Bund  Deutscher  ArchlteKten  12  De- 
cember 1923  In  the  large  lecture  hall  of  the  Museum  for  Applied  Arts,  Berlin, 
Prinz  Albrechtstr.  8.  Published  In  Sauwe/f  14. 1923.  No.  52,  p.  7 19.  Translated  by 
Rolf  Achilles. 


On  the  farm  it  is  customary  to  till  weed-infested  fields  without  regard  to 

those  few  blades  of  grass  which  still  find  the  energy  to  survive. 

We  too  are  also  left  with  no  other  choice  if  we  are  truly  to  strive  for  a  new 

sense  of  construction. 

You  are  all  aware  of  course  of  the  condition  of  our  buildings  and  yet  I 

would  like  to  remind  you  of  the  fully  petrified  nonsense  along  the 

Kurfiirstendam  and  Dahlem. 

I  have  tried  in  vain  to  discover  the  reason  for  these  buildings.  They  are 

neither  liveable,  economical,  norfunctional  and  yet  they  are  to  serve  as 

home  for  the  people  of  our  age. 

We  have  not  been  held  in  very  high  esteem,  if  one  really  believes  that 

these  boxes  can  fulfill  our  living  needs. 

No  attempt  has  been  made  to  grasp  and  shape.  In  a  basic  manner,  our 

varying  needs. 

Our  inner  needs  have  been  overlooked  and  it  was  thought  that  a  clever 

juggling  of  historical  elements  would  suffice. 

The  condition  of  these  buildings  is  mendacious,  dumb  and  injurious. 

On  the  contrary,  we  demand  of  buildings  today: 

Uncompromising  truthfulness  and  renunciation  of  all  formal  lies. 

We  further  demand: 

That  all  planning  of  housing  be  dictated  by  the  way  we  live. 

A  rational  organization  is  to  be  sought  and  the  application  of  new 


technical  means  towards  this  end  is  a  self-evident  presumption. 

If  we  fulfill  these  demands,  then  the  housing  of  our  age  is  formed. 

Since  the  rental  unit  is  only  a  multiplicity  of  individual  houses  we  find 

that  herealsothesametypeandquantlty  of  organic  housing  is  formed. 

This  determines  the  manner  of  the  housing  block. 

I  cannot  show  you  any  illustrations  of  newer  structures  which  meet 

these  demands  because  even  the  new  attempts  have  not  gone  beyond 

mere  formalities. 

To  lift  your  sights  over  the  historical  and  aesthetic  rubble  heap  of 

Europe  and  direct  you  towards  primary  and  functional  housing,  I  have 

assembled  pictures  of  buildings  which  stand  outside  the  greco-roman 

culture  sphere. 

I  have  done  this  on  purpose,  because  an  ax  bite  in  Hildesheim  lies  closer 

to  my  heart  than  a  chisel  hole  in  Athens. 

I  now  show  you  housing,  the  structure  of  which  is  clearly  dictated  by 

function  and  material. 

1.  Teepee 

This  is  the  typical  dwelling  of  a  nomad.  Light  and  transportable. 

2.  Leaf  Hut 

This  Is  the  leaf  hut  of  an  Indian.  Have  you  ever  seen  anything  more 
complete  in  fulfilling  its  function  and  in  its  use  of  material?  Is  this  not 
the  involution  of  jungle  shadows? 

3.  Eskimo  House 

Now  I  lead  you  to  night  and  ice.  Here,  moss  and  seal  fur  have  become 
the  building  materials.  Walrus  ribs  form  the  roof  construction. 


165 


SOLVED      PROBLEMS 


4.  Igloo 

We're  going  farther  north.  The  house  of  a  Central  eskimo.  Here  there 
is  only  snow  and  ice.  And  still  man  builds. 

5.  Summer  tent  of  an  Eskimo 

This  fellow  also  has  a  summer  villa.  The  construction  materials  are 
skin  and  bones.  From  the  quiet  and  solitude  of  the  north  I  lead  you  to 
turbulent  medieval  Flanders. 

6.  Castle  of  the  Dukes  of  Flanders,  Ghent 
Here,  the  house  has  become  a  fortress. 

7.  Farm 

In  the  lower  German  plains  stands  the  house  of  the  German  farmer. 
It's  necessities  of  life:  house,  stall  and  hayloft  are  met  in  this  one 
structure. 

What  I  have  shown  you  in  illustrations  meets  all  the  requirements  of  Its 
inhabitants.  We  demand  nothing  more  for  ourselves.  Only  timely  mate- 
rials. Since  there  are  no  buildings  which  so  completely  meet  the  needs 
of  man  today  I  can  only  show  you  a  structure  from  a  related  area  which 
has  been  only  recently  perceived  and  meets  the  requirements  which  I 
also  long  for  and  strive  towards  in  our  own  housing. 

8.  Imperator  (Luxury  Liner,  Hamburg-America  Line). 

Here,  you  see  floating  mass  housing  created  out  of  the  needs  and 

materials  of  our  age. 

Here  I  ask  again: 

Have  you  ever  seen  anything  more  complete  in  its  fulfillment  of 

function  and  justification  of  materials? 

We  would  be  envied  if  we  had  structures  which  justified  our  main 

land  needs  in  such  a  way. 

Only  when  we  experience  the  needs  and  means  of  our  age  in  such  a 

primeval  way  will  we  have  a  new  sense  of  structure.  To  awaken  a 

consciousness  for  these  things  is  the  purpose  of  my  short  talk. 


166 


EXPLANATION     OF     THE      EDUCATIONAL     PROGRAM 


With  the  following  prospectus  Mies  defined  his  educational  program  for  the 
School  of  Architecture  at  Armour  Institute  of  Technology  In  the  winter  of  1937- 
1938. 

The  goal  of  an  Architectural  School  is  to  train  men  who  can  create 
organic  architecture. 

Such  men  must  be  able  to  design  structures  constructed  of  modern 
technical  means  to  serve  the  specific  requirements  of  existing  society. 
They  must  also  be  able  to  bring  these  structures  within  the  sphere  of  art 
by  ordering  and  proportioning  them  in  relation  to  their  functions,  and 
forming  them  to  express  the  means  employed,  the  purposes  served, 
and  the  spirit  of  the  times. 

In  order  to  accomplish  this,  these  men  must  not  only  be  trained  in  the 
essentials  of  construction,  professional  knowledge  and  in  the  creation 
of  architectural  form,  but  they  must  also  develop  a  realistic  Insight  into 
the  material  and  spiritual  needs  of  their  contemporaries,  so  that  they 
may  be  able  to  create  architecture  which  fittingly  fulfills  these  needs. 
Finally,  they  must  be  given  the  opportunity  to  acquire  a  basic  architec- 
tural philosophy  and  fundamental  creative  principles  which  will  guide 
them  in  their  task  of  creating  living  architecture.  The  accompanying 
program  is  intended  to  provide  an  education  which  achieves  this  pur- 
pose. 
The  period  of  study  is  divided  into  three  progressive  stages,  namely: 

MEANS,     PURPOSES,     AND     PLANNING     AND     CREATING,      With      3      ShOrt 

period  of  preparatory  training.  Parallel  and  complementary  to  this 
creative  education,  general  theory  and  professional  training  will  be 
studied.  The  subjects  In  these  latter  two  divisions  will  be  timed  to 


prepare  the  students  for  each  successive  step  in  his  creative  develop- 
ment. 

Work  in  mathematics,  the  natural  sciences,  and  drawing,  in  these  two 
divisions  will  be  begun  before  the  principal  course  of  study  begins.  This 
is  the  preparatory  training  referred  to  above  and  is  indicated  on  the 
program  by  raising  these  subjects  in  the  two  columns  at  the  extreme  left 
of  the  program  In  advance  of  all  other  subjects.  This  preparatory  train- 
ing is  to  teach  the  students  to  draw,  to  see  proportions  and  to  under- 
stand the  rudiments  of  physics  before  starting  the  study  of  structural 
means. 

The  subjects  in  the  column  design[at]ed  General  Theory  are  designed 
to  give  the  student  the  necessary  scientific  and  cultural  background 
which  will  give  him  the  knowledge,  the  sense  of  proportion  and  the 
historical  perspective  necessary  in  his  progress  through  the  other 
stages  of  his  education.  Only  those  aspects  of  these  subjects  which  have 
a  direct  bearing  on  architecture  will  be  treated. 

The  subjects  in  the  column  designated  Professional  Training  cover  the 
specialized  architectural  knowledge  which  the  student  will  require  to 
give  him  the  technical  proficiency  necessary  to  carry  on  his  creative 
work  In  the  school  and  take  his  place  in  his  profession  upon  graduation. 
The  first  major  stage  of  the  student's  education  entitled  Means,  covers  a 
thorough  and  systematic  study  of  the  principal  building  materials,  their 
qualities  and  their  proper  use  in  building.  The  student's  work  In  his 
parallel  course  in  Natural  Science  will  be  arranged  to  help  him  make 
this  Investigation.  Similarly  his  work  in  the  field  of  Profess/ona/Tra/n/ng 
will  be  timed  to  enable  him  to  design  structurally  In  the  various  mate- 


167 


EXPLANATION      OF      THE      EDUCATIONAL      PROGRAM 


rials  he  is  studying.  He  will  study  the  construction  types  and  methods 
appropriatetothematerialssingly  and  in  combination.  Atthesametlme 
he  will  be  required  to  develop  simple  structural  forms  with  these  mate- 
rials, and  then,  as  a  result  of  the  knowledge  so  gained,  he  will  be 
required  to  detail  original  structural  forms  in  the  various  materials. 
This  study  of  materials  and  construction  will  be  carried  beyond  the 
older  building  materials  and  methods  into  the  Investigation  of  the 
manufactured  and  syntJnetic  materials  available  today.  The  student  will 
analyze  the  newer  materials  and  make  experiments  to  determine  their 
proper  uses,  their  proper  combination  in  construction,  their  aesthetic 
possibilities  and  architectural  forms  appropriate  to  them. 
This  stage  of  the  student's  work  is  designed  to  give  him  a  thorough 
knowledge  of  the  means  with  which  he  must  later  build,  a  feeling  for 
materials  and  construction  and  to  teach  him  how  architectural  forms 
are  developed  from  the  necessities  and  possibilities  inherent  in  mate- 
rials and  construction. 

In  the  second  major  stage  of  the  student's  education,  entitled  Purposes 
on  the  program,  the  student  will  study  the  various  purposes  for  which 
buildings  are  required  in  modern  society.  He  will  make  a  systematic 
study  of  the  various  functions  of  different  kinds  of  buildings  and  seek 
reasonable  solutions  for  their  requirements  from  a  technical,  social  and 
humanitarian  standpoint.  The  construction,  purpose,  and  arrangement 
of  furniture  and  furnishings  in  their  relation  to  the  buildings  and  their 
occupants  will  also  be  studied. 

After  studying  the  requirements  of  various  types  of  buildings  and  their 
solution,  the  student  will  progress  to  the  study  of  ordering  these  types 
into  groups  and  into  unified  communities  —  in  other  words:  city  plan- 
ning. City  planning  will  be  studied  from  the  point  of  view  that  the 
various  parts  of  a  community  must  be  so  related  that  the  whole  func- 
tions as  a  healthy  organism.  The  student  will  also  study  the  reorganiza- 
tion of  existing  cities  to  make  them  function  as  an  organic  unity.  The 
possibilities  of  Regional  planning  will  also  be  sketched. 
Naturally  the  student's  general  theoretical  education  and  professional 
training  will  be  running  along  parallel  to  these  studies  and  will  be  far 
enough  advanced  at  each  point  so  that  he  fully  understands  the  techni- 
cal, social  and  cultural  aspects  of  each  problem. 
At  the  beginning  of  his  study  of  the  purposes  of  buildings,  he  will  have 


begun  the  study  of  the  nature  of  man;  what  he  is,  how  he  lives,  how  he 
works,  what  his  needs  are  in  both  the  material  and  spiritual  sphere.  He 
must  also  have  an  understanding  of  the  nature  of  society;  how  man  has 
organized  himself  into  groups,  apportioned  and  specialized  his  work  to 
lighten  it  and  allow  him  more  leisure  to  pursue  his  spiritual  aims  and 
evolve  a  communal  culture.  This  sociological  study  will  also  investigate 
former  civilizations,  their  economic  basis,  their  social  forms,  and  the 
cultures  which  they  produce. 

The  student  will  also  study  the  history  and  nature  of  Technics  —  so  that 
he  may  comprehend  the  compelling  and  supporting  forces  of  modern 
society.  He  will  learn  the  methods  and  principles  of  Technics  and  their 
implications  in  his  own  creative  sphere.  He  will  realize  the  new  solu- 
tions of  the  problems  of  space,  form  and  harmony  made  possible  and 
demanded  by  the  development  of  modern  Technics. 
The  relationship  between  culture  and  technics  will  also  be  studied  so 
that  the  student  will  be  able  to  appreciate  his  part  in  developing  a  new 
culture  so  that  finally  our  technical  civilization  may  have  a  unified  and 
integrated  culture  of  its  own. 

Likewise  the  student's  professional  training  will  have  advanced  far 
enough  at  each  point  for  him  to  solve  the  professional  and  technical 
factors  of  the  problems  that  are  being  analyzed. 
The  third  and  last  stage  of  the  student's  education  has  been  entitled 
Planning  and  Creating. 

When  the  student  has  advanced  this  far  he  will  have  mastered  the 
technique  of  his  profession;  he  will  understand  specific  purposes  and 
problems  for  which  society  requires  his  knowledge,  and  he  will  have 
acquired  a  general  background  which  should  have  given  him  a 
thorough  comprehension  of  modern  life  and  have  imbued  him  with  a 
sense  of  professional  and  social  obligation.  He  must  now  learn  to  use 
his  knowledge  of  the  means,  and  the  purposes  to  produce  architecture 
which  is  creative  and  living.  This  final  and  most  important  phase  of  his 
education  is  intended  to  enable  him  to  do  so. 

During  this  phase  of  his  education,  all  the  facilities  of  the  school  will  be 
directed  towards  training  him  in  the  fundamentals  of  creative  design 
based  upon  the  principles  of  organic  order,  so  that  he  will  attack  his 
architectural  problems  with  an  essential  philosophy  whose  guidance 
will  enable  him  to  create  true  architecture. 


168 


\.  -  .■ 


'.^'l^- 


y'^.-T- 


m^Mmm-'^&m^'''wmwm^m^^^^r 


